First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., MAY 12, 1916.
NUMBER 12
Geo. II. Cummings Is
Now Deputy Sheriff j
Ferrcira To Fight For Hace Denies
He Resigned Mossman Slated
For Tax Office Job
George H. Cummings was yesterday
afternoon appointed by County Sheriff
Crowell to bo deputy sheriff, succeed
ing John Ferrcira. Cummings enter
ed upon his duties at once. Yester
day morning the sheriff was called
before the board of supervisors in
connection with the recent Ferrcira
trouble. He Informed the board that
he had been tendered Ferreira's resig
nation, and had accepted it. The board
approved the action.
As told in the Maul News last week,
Ferreira now denies that he resigned.
In company with his attorney, Eugene
Murphy, he went to the sheriff's of
fice last Monday morning and form
ally demanded that he be reinstated.
Sheriff Crowell told him he had re
signed, and that ho was out. No
further move has been made by Fer
reira, though it is generally believed
that his attorney contemplates bring
ing action in the courts denying that
he resigned and demanding that, cause
be shown for his removal. Murphy
has been in Honolulu most of this
week attending the supreme court.
He Is expected back tomorrow. He
stated to the Maui News last week
that he and Lorrin Andrews, of Hono
lulu, are attorneys for Ferreira, and
tnat "there will probably be a fight."
Cumminas Not New to Job
George Cummings, who began his
duties as denutv sheriff vefiterdnv in
not new to the job, though he has
not been connected with the police
department of the county for 13 years.
Before the days of county government,
however, he held the position of cap-
uun or police, under the then sheriff,
L. M. Baldwin. At. the snmn limn
Sheriff Clem Crowell was lieutenant
of police. Cummings held the first
place on the police force for a number
of years, going "out the back door"
when the office became an elective
one after the establishment of the
present county system. An interest
ing coincidence is the fact that Cum
miners is now for a sonnnri (imo atonn
ing into the shoes of Johnnie Ferreira
in the police department. The first
time was when he was nrnmnfoit tmm
police clerk to be police captain, after
errcira, who was then captain, had
resigned to accent a nri
Cummings' record is said to have been
good under the old regime, and Sheriff
croweii believes he will make good
afain.
Harry Mossman Mav Get Job
George Cummines leaves ilin l
tax office to take his new job, wher
ne naa been deputy to Assessor Ku
newa for the past three or four
months. It is now rennrter! nn trnnn
authority that W. E. Cockett, who has
ueen cierK in the tax office for a
number of years, has been recom
mended for nrnmnfi fin fll fll in m i ti era ;
shoes; and that Harry C. Mossman,
me vvanuKU lawyer, and energetic
democratic worker, is to succeed
Cockett. This is not fully confirmed,
but it is not denied by those who are in
position to know. Mossman had
general charge of Dr. Raymond's
campaign in the recent party election,
by which the Doc secured the
election as delegate to the St. Louis
convention, after a vigorous fight
.
Racing Association
Ball Was Brilliant
Although the weather was anything
but favorable, the roads in most of
the country districts being all but im
passable on account of the rains, the
annual fancy dress ball of the Maui
Racing Association, held last Satur
day night, was one of the most suc
cessful of any yet given. Not only
were the cotumes of more striking
originality than heretofore, but a larg
er proportion of the dancers were in
costume. This is the first year that
the ball has opened with all on the
floor en masque, and this innovation
added much to the hilarity or the oc
casion. The Kahului Lyceum, where the
ball was held, was beautifully decora
ted, with flags, bunting and greens.
It had been expected that a number of
Honolulu guests would be present to
attend the polo game which had been
scheduled for the day, but the inclem
ent weather caused the calling off or
the game, and as a consequence the
Honolulu players did not arrive. The
proceeds or the ball are to bo used to
derray the debts of the association.
NOISY SEAMEN GET
FINED $5 EACH
George Kaul, John Kona, and Louis
Gardner, convicted of disturbing the
quiet of the night at Kahului, last
Tuesday evening, were each fined
and costs in the district magistrates
court, on Wednesday. The trio are
members of the crew of the Inter
I.slund steamer Noeau, which happen-
Oalm Polo Stars
Coming For 2 Games
Famous All-Hawaii Coast Team Of
1913 Will Once More Flay Together
4th. of July Game Also Planned
The opening polo game of the seas
on, which was to have been played
between the Maui and the Oahu
tennis on Hie new Keahua field last
Saturday, but which was deferred on
account or the wet. weather, will be
played a week from tomorrow, May
20. Besides this, another game is to
be played on the following Monday,
in which the All Hawaii team which
played on the coast in 1913, will try
conclusions with a picked team of
Maul players.
The Oahu players, who are expected
to arrive by the Manoa on Friday or
Saturday of next, week, are Arthur
Rice, Harold Castle, and Walter Dil
lingham. For Saturday's game this
crack trio will be loaned Davn Plpm.
Ing. The Maui team will consist nf
Harold Kice, A. W. Collins, Sam Bald
win, and F. F. Baldwin.
The only change In the makeup of
the Oahu team to get the All-Hawaii
team of three years ago, for the Mon
day game, will be the replacement of
fieming Dy Frank Baldwin.
ine ualm players are not
bringing their horses with
them this trin. bei no" Klin
plied with mounts from among Maui
ponies. Also the games will he alter
ed slightly by having 6 instead of the
regulation 8 periods.
It is probable that another game
will be arranged for on the local
grounds for the Fourth of July.
.
Wailuku Men Held
For Stealing Calf
Alleged To Have Killed And Eaten Ani
mal Belonging To Cornwell Ranch
Stockmen To Push Case
Charged With lnrc.pnv in tht scrnnil
degree, Charles Achune and Antone
ausuno, or Wailuku, were arrested
on Monday by Sheriff Crowell, for the
aiiegea inert or a calf owned by the
Cornwell Ranch. They will be given
a hearnig in the distriee court nn Fri
day next.
The theft is it Is claimed took tiI.ica
at ivinei wnere the men were work
ing. Achune and Faustino it is
claimed, caught and killed the
calf, and in company with
others indulged in a liiir limn
News of the affair reached Snnprln-
tendent Pia Cockett, of the ranch,
wno discovered the skin of the calf,
and got other evidence. A. M. Brown,
of Honolulu, nianaircr of th
who happened to be on Maui, is said
to nave announced a determination
to vigorously nrosec.ute the enso
withstanding efforts made by friends
of the accused men to make good
thie loss. The affair has caused some
thing of a sensation within ft famnll
circle, as the men are well known
anu nave many friends in Wailuku.
Utilities Board
To Hear Complaints
Telephone And Electric Companies
Will Be Vivisected Next Week
Meetings All Public
The members of th Public rtilitirs
Commission are expected to arrive
tomorrow evening from Honolulu for
the purpose of holdinir meetings nn
Monday lor the investigation into the
affairs or three local r'l.rt.nrn-
tions the Maui T-.lonhnno r.nm
the Lahaina Electric Company, and
ine island Electric Company. The
commission is made up of Charles R.
Forbes, chairman. J. N. S. Williams
and A. J. Gignoux. H. P. O'Sullivan,
clerk of the commission will also prob
ably accompany the body.
1 ho commission will open its ses
sion at 9 o'clock Mondav morning In
the Wailuku Town Hall, and will hear
formal or informal complaints or cri
ticisms of the several companies to
be investigated, and special days will
then be .t for going into the mat
ters deemed cf sutlicient imnortance.
All sessions will be public and the
public is invited to be present.
d to be in port over night. They had
leen drinking, and after attending thn
moving picture show showed a ilisposi-
lon to paint the town a scarlet hue.
'olice officer George Kawenaole re
monstrated to no avail, and linallv.
after considerable trouble, and with
he assistance of bystanders, he suc
ceeded in arresting the noisy bunch.
Parker Ranch May
Exhibit At Fair
A. W. Carter Enthusiastic Over Under
taking But Doesn't Like Date
Committee Meeting Today
The members of the Maui County
Fair executive committee nre much
pleased with the Indications being re
ceived from every source that tile big
undertaking for next Thanksgiving is
to be fully as successful as they have
believed possible. The interest dis
played from all over the territory in
the enterprise, as well as the local in
terest, is extremely encouraging.
The folluwing letter received '.by
Secretary J. Garcia, this week, from
A. W. Carter, indicates that Maui may
hope to see an exhibit of some of the
j fine Parker Ranch cattle and horses:
mr. j. i in ma
"Sec'y. Maul County Fair Committee,
"Wailuku, Maui.
"Dear Sir:
"I am in receipt of your letter of
April 20th.
"The Hawaiian Livestock Greeders
Association is no longer alive. I would
suggest that you write to the individ
ual ranch men regarding your exhibit.
"I am preparing some stock, cattle
and horses, for the Hawaii County
Fair to take place in September and
it may be that I will be able to send
some of the stock to Maui to partici
pate there. It would give me great
pleasure to do so if it is a possible
thing. Transportation Is a serious
problem in handling fine stock and
there is a further obstacle which I
think should be remedied in the fu
ture, that is, that the county fairs
should be held within two or three
weeks of one another. Perhaps if the
committee got together they could ar
range a schedule which would be
more convenient to the live stock
breeder. My stock will have to be
fitted to go into the ring in September.
Your show coming off in the last of
November necessitates keeping these
animals in show condition for an in
terval of over two months for the
next exhibit which takes place. This
is not good for the animal and en
tails necessarily a large expense. I
could not bring them back to the
ranch if I intended to show them on
Maui. It will necessitate my eithei
keeping them in Hilo for a long period
of time or shipping them down to Maui
a couple of months ahead or (he show.
This is not meant to be a complaining
but simply suggestive, and whether I
participate or not. I hone that vour
rnir will bo a great success. I think
no better work can be done than along
the lines which you gentlemen are
working.
"Yours very truly,
"(Signed) ALFRED W. CARTER."
Committee Meeting Today
The executive committee, which
was unable to get together last week
on account or the bad weather, is
meeting this afternoon, and it is ex
pected that most or the sub-committees
which will handle the different
branches of the fair will be appointed
at this time. The committee will al
so decide something as to the scope
of the fair.
Floral Show Will Be Large
indentions already arte. t.ha:t (li
floral section of the fair will be a
magnificent one. The committee has
received word from many sources or
preparations already started in this
line.
Pinkham Writes About
Raymond Appointment
Governor Pinkhnm will not come to
Maul as he had planned several weeks
ago. In a letter to County Clerk Kaae,
announcing the appointment or Dr.
Raymond as supervisor, he stated that
the trip had been contemplated with
a view or securing some sort or har
mony in Maui, but he evidently has
had his mind set a rest.
Following is the letter:
William F. Kaae, Esq.,
'County Clerk, Counly of Maui,
"Wailuku, Maui:
"Sir: On March 31 I informed you
I would soon visit Maui. My purpose
was to ascertain if it werc not pos
sible to secure some unanimity as to
efficiency in the selection or a super
visor lor Maul. Two good names had
Icen mentioned. I have been unavoid
ably occupied and unable to make the
Maul trip at present. This morning a
Republican, who has no affiliations,
called and presented his views of what
was justly needed, action and elii
ciency. "Without consultation with J. H.
Raymond, Esq., I have decided to ap
point him supervisor and have this
day issued his ocniniission to fill the
existing vacancy.
"Very respectfully,
"Ll'ClL'S E. PINKHAM,
"Governor of Hawaii."
Bernhardt Awarded
$2000 As Damages
Judge Edings Hold County Was Gross
ly At Fault In liana Case Wi
Be Appealed
Charging that the county had been
grossly negligent in permitting th
deep wash-out in the liana road to
remain unguarded by railing or other
protection, Judge Edings on Mondav
rendered a decision in the Reinhardt
damage suit against the county, a
warding the plaint iiT the sum of $2,000
Although the County Attorney ad
vised the board that, it was probably
uouni mi wiietner or not the case
could be reversed in the supreme
unit on points of law, for the reason
tba. the responsibility of the county
sinus almost conclusive, it was de
cided litis morning to take the matter
up in order to clear the wav for pos
sible action on the part of the count v
to recover on Former Engineer Hugh
Howell's bond.
Charles Reinhardt, sugar boiler for
the Kaeieku Sugar Company, proved
in court last week that he had sus
tained numerous fractures of r'.bs
and limbs, besides other serious in
juries from which he never recover
ed, when he walked into the big wash
out in the dark. He had brought
suit through Case and Vincent for
$15,000. County Attorney Bevins
introduced no testimony, but made a
strong fight against the county's
responsibility for the accident. Dr.
G. E. Slraub, of Honolulu, as a witness
ror the plaintiff, exhibited a number
of X-ray pictures which he had takeu
of Reinhardt's fractures. His testl
mony was given last Saturday morn
ing, following which the case was sub
nut ted.
Locomotive Turns
Over Into Stream
Two Employes Of Olowalu Company
Badly Hurt-Bridge Pier Had Been
Washed Out
That no one was killed when a loco
motive and 3 cane cars crashed
through a bridge Into the Olowalu
stream, on Tuesday morning of last
week, is one of the mysteries that are
not inaptly placed in the miracle class,
As it was, however, two employes or
the Olowalu Sugar Company were
pretty badly hurt, while a number or
others doubtless had the narrowest
escape or their lives.
Antone F. Santos, a luna on the
plantation, who was riding in the en
gine cab, sustained severe cuts on the
head and body, and Evarlsto Ramos
laborer, is believed to have sustained
severe internal hurts.
The accident was caused by a pier
in ine nrutge being washed out dur
ing the night by a torrent or mountain
water. The train was the first one
out, and was carrying the laborers to
the fields. In railing the locomotive
turned completely over, resting in the
bed of the stream with its wheels in
the air. The engine cab, by some
luchy c nance, was not crushed, how
ever, which doubtless accounts for the
escape of the occupants rrom death.
Plantations Benefit
From Recent Rain
Whil? hcay damage is repoited
rrom the plantations along the Harna
kua coast, on the island or Hawaii,
from last week's stoim, Maui has been
peculiaily fortunate. Practically every
plantation on the island has profited
immensely from the rain, and al
though it has in some instances In
terfered to some extent with field
work, this has been offset many times
over by th? benefits to crops.
On west Maui, while the precipita
tion on tho lower levels has been
light, and have not interfered in any
way with harvesting or other field
work, the mountains have been almost
constantly saturated by heavy down
pours, with the result that the Pioneer
and Olowalu companies have had a
great abundance of irrigation water,
and have not been obliged to pump
any for some time. I'nless some
unforeseen disaster occurs this
seems destined to be Maui's record
year in the sugar industry.
CUMMINGS COCK ET
Miss Lizzie Cockett of Waikapu,
and Mr. George H. Cummings, were
quietly married last Saturday evening
al the home of Rev. L. B. Kaumehei
wa, in Wailuku. They will make their
home for the time being at Waikapu.
Both young people are well known in
ttie community, and are receiveing the
congratulations of their friends. Mr.
Cunimings was yesterday appointed
deputy sheriff of the county.
MEXICAN SITUATION
IS AGAIN CRITICAL
Conference On Border Results In Nothing Fight
ing In Verdun District Still Indecisive
- More Talk Of Peace
HONOLULU, May 12 Santa Clara university ball team comes
here middle of June for series of games.
I'lot thickens in Jones' search for bride. Thought that Jones may
be the victim of a practical joke.
Unlisted' men whose transfer from islands has been authorized,
will return home, but war department fails to give ruling as to officers.
Hawaiian Commercial pays dividend in June. Rumor says Olaa
and McBryde will follow suit.
City ordinance may also be printed in Hawaiian. Mayor thinks
they should be in the two languages.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 12 Miss Dorothy Spring is a near
bride. Father puts stop to hasty wedding to Lyman Covell, divorced.
Young woman figured in a fatal automobile accident here in December
with Dr. Jack Paden. Engagement to the Doctor was announced
after the young people arrived on the coast, but girl broke this at 11th
hour. (
WASHINGTON, May 12
tion is again acute. Fresh border outrages, including raid into Ameri
can territory and murder of rancher follow close of conference. No
thing accomplished in the conference. President Carranza takes up
the slogan of ''Mexico for Mexicans," and Washington finds the Unit
ed States near actual war.
LONDON, May 12 Foes
Verdun line. Both sides report minor gains in renewal of desperate
German offensive. Teutons hurl attack against Caillette Wood.
rirst reverse of serious nature
Grand Duke Nicholas, is reported
SHANGHAI, May 12 Sun
ed president is welcomed on French soil lie says country must be
united for all time.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 12
nis, of the Roanoke's crew is recovered from life boat of steamer by
searching party. Loss of life
claim vessel was overloaded by San
OYSTER BAr, May 12 Country must square its words with
deeds. Roosevelt says now is the
WASHINGTON, May 12
Germany. Government asked to
LONDON, May 12 Asquith
House of commons duty calls him
SHANGHAI, May 12 Chang
Rebels enter Tsinan, the capital,
BERLIN, May 12 Gregory
known as a strong influence to Czar,
NEW YORK, May 11 Peace
shortly reach a concrete form. Is
lands. In response to an apjieal to the anti-war council of the Nether
lands it is announced here that a meeting will be called soon to con
sider proposal in Holland that President Wilson be urged to promote a
conference of neutrals. Conference shall offer to mediate between
lelligerents. Announcement made
publicist and editor of the Independent. Dutch appeal refers to the
mention of peace made in Germany's reply to United States on sub
marine issue. It points out that Germany says she has twice suiiiiested
icace under conditions which would
Fhis is taken as an indication that
eady to entertain proposals now.
GENEVA, Switzerland, May
jtrman officers and 32 soldiers were shot for distributing in German
renches pamphlets concerning the
mcrwald, Switzerland.
PARIS, May 11 Germans launch new and heavy offensive near
Verdun, east of the Meuse. Also
Vaux. Near Avacourt, artillery combats unsuccessful.
BERLIN, May 11 Successes
iy Germans. On the west French
were beaten back with considerable
EL PASO, May 11 Funston
on the border. Lack of men may cause him to mount infantry on
points for line duty. Eight cavalrymen sent out after brigands. Three
uuhts promised to lead Langhorne
who made Big Bend raid.
HONOLULU, May 11 Manoa
women. Attempted attack with knife last night rouses residents to
etion. Will bring blood-hounds
aptain will give revolver instruction so feminine shooting will be
eadly.
Proceedings in condemnation is commenced. Stat made to
secure site for new federal building.
HONOLULU, May 11 Plumber Thomas Jones needs bride
uickly to gain legacy left him by eccentric uncle. Condition is he must
ecome a benedict or lose $35,000.
Appropriation to be used only
of commerce is opposed to shifting
Hears good news of military
cheme is meeting with much approval in official circles.
SAN I'RANCISCO, May 11
own. More than 40 perish. Ancient freighter capsizes oft Point
San Luis. Captain drowns with wife, and sailors take to boats. Two
mad men rescued with frozen sailors
or Lhili. I.ut three sailors reached
on the 8th. Was overloaded. Parties are searching' fur other boats
nd members of crew. Survivors
board and captain followed.
LIVERPOOL, May 11 Fishermen almost die from exposure.
lalf mad with thirst, hunger and cold,
lernadctte, sunk by German torpedo, reached shore vesterdav. Had
cen drifting days.
(Continued on
Parley has ended and Mexican situa
vainly match their strength on the
suffered by Russian army under
by the duke.
Yet Sen joins rebels in China. Exil
Body of Second Officer John Den
from disaster about 50. Survivors
Francisco charters.
time for national rehabilitation.
Red Cross would send supplies to
lodge protest against British ban.
leaves on visit to Dublin. Tells
to Ireland. Lords are dissatisfied.
Tung province joins rebellion.
after a siege.
Rasputin, Russian monk, for years
has been assassinated.
move being promoted here will
launched by citizens of the Nether
by Hamilton Holt, a well known
not violate her national aspirations.
the German government must be
11 Swiss report is that three
recent peace conference in Zim-
attacking French strongly near
both on east and west fronts won
made attack on Dead Man's Hill but
loss.
is facing a hard problem in patrol
s command to camp of the outlaws,
stirred by trespasser who molests
for tracking criminal. Detective
for wharves and harbor. Chamber
remaining balance to Kahului.
road project. McClellan writes that
Old coast steamer Roanoke goes
as companions. Vessel was bound
shore. Boat left San Irancisco
say captain's wife was washed over
9 members of crew of the trawler
Page Five.)
