THE WEATHER FORECAST,
Fair, cooler, diminishing winds to-dijq
tn.mnrrnw. fair. V s
IT SHINES FOP, ALL .
" . --"'y,
Highest temperature yesteja,7
Detailed weather, mM and nmii
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 255.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1916. Copyright, UK. by the Sun Printing and Publishing Attoclatton.
PRI
r tv .
e rM'
s8ll
BRITISH RAISE
BLOCKADE FOR
POLISH RELIEF
Jlri'lin Agrees to Loud Ships
to Rockefeller Eoimda
t ion for Work.
VESSELS TO FLY
A XEITRAI. FLAG
Americans to Food JI.OOO.
tltlO Poles, Germany to
Care for 12,O0IUM0.
NEW YORK BAXKKI
.NEGOTIATES SCI1 KM K
Sorhia. Montenegro and A I-
liauia May Be Aided
in New Plan.
,Chle decpatches from l-omlou lat
aijht announced tli.it tlnough tho efforts
of .llin I' llockcfclltr, Jr., and tlic
Rockefeller Koilinlat Ion mid for the sake
of inrIHK Poland the British Hot'iru--nit
lin m f.ir niodlllcd Its food block
ade as to permit Herman ships iljlng a
antral lUs to carry foodstuffs until Dc
Mtxr 1 to S.yOO.OOO slartlng Poles.
(Jernan, on licr part, has already
lirced to contribute IS.niiii.iiuii mark"
fold IJJ.T.Mi.iiOll) for the purchase of tills
fwJ, and she has engaged to feed the
IJ.OOO.ofiii or more persons of I'ol.ind and
Hu-U now governed li hiv nillita-y
staff In .iddlllon flic lends tin- sh'p
that w II carry the food fiom New loik
and utlicr wrts to Dizlg on the Ikiltk.
Tne one condition accepted on the pa it
of tin allied and the, Central Power.-. I
thai the mtlre transaction from the -insfltig
to the llnal distribution "liall he
olily under the control of a new PolMi
teiisf fecttun tn b organized hy llcrheit
(.'. Hooter of the Commission for the lie
Uof in Mslslum and the. foundation itp
mcr.tatltes. Warwick Hrecun of the
foundation and tun assistants will hale
enarge and other men aie. ahead) ou
inc. r' nay to make pitiparatlons foi the
wets. s "
Sweden In Kxtcnil Aid.
Pcaii't of th urgency of the can1 an
t(recnient la .ihout consummate.! with
imcdtii whcithy that Uovermncbt 'Will
land food until the American cargoes
iKtln to arrive. The work may Mail at
once
No one eould miniate last night the
lo;.il "-t of this undertaking to the
loun'iation or the full amount of food
t..at ii ty he necessary for the teller. The
uin nil liutrd hy German will jitn -
jm t l tlguted. To.Ouu ton of food
tuffs for Hile who hato miffered ii
..ai.'a f-n heatl a year, hut It has been
llnii'i."l that all of the starting people.
ntd something like 4(.mnt tons a mnntt.
Nun Hli.it they already have, it Is
Uaiught that they can be fed for the
tune pre.-etibed.
riie llritish (imernnietit In rahlc des
l. t-be ic cited yesterday was quoted
t 41 hi.- tli.it In Its opinion It w.ih alMi
.lit 'hit of lii rmauy in we to It that
tin. t.i Mim of Set Ida, Albania and
Muiiti tn mo are fed.
I' w.if added pilvately last iiIkIu. Iiow
ii Ui.it Knclatid haw further Informed
tue iiti'i-rin.itles of the Foundation
that -,n nott haa 0a,000 tons of wheat
in liuin.inia nhlih she will sell to any
pUHanthinpie ineillum uhkh can obtain
luarati'ces from the Central Towers thai
it mil he ti-.eil exiluslvely for the relief
of th' .ixlliaitf of the countries named.
luiilfleniit Kluii.
M' rt.i.i eri) eotueiiied in bringing
!mi Mil ullef sltijatlon declared last
ii. Ii lin n uas the iiioft slRiiitleant
.;n ' the . i turn of Rood will between
ti e w rin jr I'iiwits that has been shown
iiin he w.u bcsan. l-'or the tlrst time
liiej li,nc .-oine into accord on the sub
Ji "f a Urtt villi; people.
niicl.md. on lier part, lias lowered
ultai lie onldeiil to be. her strongest
"aiii ,, HLM.n.t the Central Powers:
ijcriMia has .iKieed to modify her Iron
rule f o. .iipidi countries as to permit
T'li'l'i inli'tit a. Hon hy neutrals ; not only
'. mi' tie has supplied funds to do
Uttf.
1 1
ii.n.e i liieeiie. secretary of
efi lli i I.'oiiinlatlon, would not
In oiatii r last nlKlit. not that
.I neMre to do m. lie Kilil, but
Hie inaii who brouKht it all
the 11..
iliiii 11 .
h il.ii
iti ioi ,
r.iii ui, conducted negotiations on all
drs , Hde the investigations and
tM'u' ii repoit hei-e. Is In this coun
tr uno ...iiil .pek with greater know I
J;i he Principal tenolalnr.
Tl,
Hi- 1
.
and
Krr.'
IHlei
l'u.
n,fi,t
I'Kderlck C. Walcott of
a linn of William P. Hon-
' Happening to be In I.on
',01 His ago, he went lo Paris,
'iieie Join ne. ccl Into Krlgian
1 tin request of Mr, 'llocke-
' ustigate pomo phase of the
nerr The Herman liovcrn-
"b Hm atslstajico of II, (',
Horn
I'ltrc Lviio.r ii.-iin., u uviinnnuiniiH with
"tfciite dthtilhutlon and aid, prevailed
''pon M Wulcott to go Into Poland,
j!" "'I" wh told last night by Mr.
"alfnti ,c ,, luinm , Knglewnod,
ll" lib mild work ilnnn liv Mr.
Honf
iitvoiiflble for It all," said
Hr U.,1,,,11
'Herinuny has wen what
" In iielglum and she wants
i i,n it lii Poland, T will bo
11 milk th.ie. his methods and hl
("sani.jii,,,,, ,,1,1,.,! ,y ,0 foun(allon.
j wiil lnlo llolglutn at tho request
"f John 1). Itockcfeller, Jr., In reference
" the need for clothing, and It was
leetssary for me to go to Berlin. While
ntre 1 was aaked by Herman oltlclals
tin'" l" ''"'"'"J. where, they said, con-
ro'iiTli""'' MB "'y por,ilb,y
"1 w-nt there and Minllcd the situation
wo "' urrliHi IH Hit asblblunco of
nel'l Marshal von lllndciiburg and
'iv.-iiin, ton rieseier, who has jiupreme
teiitrui
"I'l'dii my return n Hermany I found
. C'oiiiliiici on Second Pay.
U. S. HAS NO PEACE PLEA
FROM EUROPE; TO MAKE
NO OFFER SOON-LANSING
State Secretary, Denying Reports of Conferences and
Appeals From Pope, Believes Settlement
Will Be Long Delayed.
W.4sitiNin)N, May " 1 1. Secretary of
ftate hanMnsMiuthorlzed to-day n state
ment which effectively pricks the bubble
of "peace In Kurope" talk so far as any
Immediate lultiativ i the p.itt of the
Culled Slates (loeriiuietit Is roncerncd.
"I liaxe not seen any coiiimimlcation
ft out the Pope concerning peace," lie
Raid. "I hae not for some time men
tioned the Hubject of peace to the ItrltMi
Ambtatsador. There Is no Justification
whatever for reports nppeailnit In the
press eonceinlng conferences on peace
between myself and the Hrltlsh Am
bassador, J. I'. Morgan or any one elc.
"The source of all this false informa
tion is traceable to certain propaganda
about which I am not in Ignorance."
air. lousing. It is understood. heliees
there Is not a shred of evidence to show
that the chances of pein e now nit In any
way better than they were a ear ago.
President Wilson, despite his disire to
do anything nml ccr thing poslble to
help the cause of peace, sees no reason
for taking the inltiallxe at the present
time. ,
.o Noller of "l-'rrlrrii."
ieitnatiy's derire for peace and the
wllllugncMt of the Imperial fioernnient
to make peace proposals Is not regarded
as affecting the situation. For that rea
son no notice whatever lias been taken,
according to State Department officials,
uf the peace "feelers" which were In
corporated in the lecent lirnii.iu note
to the United States.
1'ret.ldent Wilson realize-" that the
great stumbllnir block to peace in
Kurope at present is the fact that the
Untente Allle" ale determined not to
hear of peace until "the menace of
Prtislan militarism has been remitted,"
It I explained that ant suggestions
lookh.g toward the establishment of
peace would have the effect only of .rri
tatlng the Kulenlc and vitlitlng the
iMisltlon which the United States hopes
BRITAIN TO GET U. S. j
RED CROSS PROTEST,
i
Wilton Will Insist That He-
lief He Allowed to Reach
the Central Powers.
NOTK TO II K OI'IIATIC
t
,
W tsiiiM.ToN, Mat 11. Pres'ibill
Wilson will nuke a vigorous piotest '
to (Jreat Ilrltaln agaln't her policy ofinii,l1' "' ""Imltied her tvllllngness to !
holding up shipments of itnl Cro ;
II.. vl.,.l 1., C..,irl .
Power.". The Prcidetit will chalgc ill- 1
lectly that the present llntl-h policy
Is In direct contrat cntlon of tile (ieneva 1
contention and he virtually will de-
mand that C.re.it Hrllaln permit the
forwarding of the Ited Cios supplies
If or luur-inUai'ian wotk in Hermany 1
and Austria. . ,
The President will act upon tne
recommendation of e.x-Prrtldent Taft.
Mr. Taft, as chairman of the central
.oimvlttce of the Ited Cms. . position
,0 which he was appointed by President ,
Wilson live months ago has wilttep a
letter to the Secretary of state urging 1
that sups be taken to ameliorate tho j
attitude of the Hrltlsh Got emment i
.
tuwaru me neu tm-n om ir,.,,...-.
the Central Kmplres. .Mr. Tan isiims
out that a great accumulation of supplies
contributed to the Fled Cross for use In
Hermany and Au'tna Is held up at New
York localise of Ore.it Ilrltaln a warning .
'l;','1 ' rn.",-n VLlU Z : .
shipped to thu j ctilinl l.n '"J ;
purpose Oilier loan .- .-'- -
Anurlcan hospital units,
in. H..tii hosnltal work is by no means
all of the huinanltailan wotk that II10
iud Cross h tr,i..g to accomplish In tho heTCc The oil I
war stricken countr is. it desires to laau ntes ins same 1 ne uuirii
..lu. l tL i n,e orison eaiiinslcib'"''nt and Switzerland are stror
-..,,.1 Mi,,.nll..K tar use III the prison camps
where allied prisoners arc confined iia
well as among tin great number of
wounded C.eimans In the Interior of
Hermaiiv. As a lesult of the Itrlllsu
IKillcv, however, the Ited Cross baa been
forced to Inform thu American public
that no contributions should be sent to
the organization for relief work In Her-
many and Austria.
The President concurs in Mr. raits
opinion that the Itrltlsh policy Is Inex
cusable and a strongly phiased protest
is promised in his behalf.
The semi-official announcement of
the President's Intention to send a note
to C.rcat Ilrltaln on this phase of Its
blockado policy Is regarded hero as sig
nificant apart from Its patent humani
tarian motive. Importance is attached
In diplomatic circles to the President's
disposition to icnew the dlplomatl- dis
cussion tvllli C.rcat llillalu, whlcli has
mcnt an well as the tlerman public,
SPY IN NAVY YARD SHOT.
kentrr Belletes llr Killed Man
When Hp IMved Into Water.
rouTHMOUTII. N. II., May II. Fleeing
before srn" from a seutry'a rifle an
unknown man, thought to he a spy, dlted
lutn the river at Ihe Portsmouth Navy
Vard early this morning and Is thought
to have been killed' by a bullet while In
the water.
The man waa discovered about 3
o'clock lurking about the Franklin ship
house, where the new submarine J8 Is
nearlng completion. When challenged
by the marine oentry tho intruder ran,
and although fired upon twice dived Into
the water In nn effort to escaie. Tho
sentry fired for the third time while the
man was in the water, and he Imme
diately hank from olght.
Sailors have been grappling 'all day
to-day in hopea or rinding the body. It
Is thought by oHIclah that the man in
tended to destroy or disable the new
submarine.
been hebl .1 alieyaii'c. luring li e cr u, , ()(,. )M vIIt.ll() )a yi,i,l. to stockholders
stage o the suhniailne coi Iroters c; nf ()H.nn . ,., )))( .,,, ,,ook
tween the Cn te.l .Mutes a 1 (.el 111. n . ((f , lh,,r(,t .,. ,., , .
It is confidently believed that Ihe Pie-I- ,,(,(,,,Ilv t0 ncrease the capital from
dent's protest will have it goisl ifTeU . non.ilOil to $2,000,000. The par value
0 non ihe att tilde of tho Herman Hovern- .,.,',. ,.a....i 1 .,
to occupy with tcspect to all belllweients '
when the time to talk of peace finally ,
does come.
Tlie Infoimatlon which reaches Presi
dent Wilson from Paris, London and
Petrograd is that peace at .piescut Is
"uniltlnlfahle." Then s apparently no
Slllfft Ht..l,..UI.IM 11 .111. ,.f t llnan
countries who m willing to go on record
as willing to discuss peace with lirrinany
tin any terms. This Is translated to
mean that the Herman terms would he
fai out of Ptopoitlon to any terms which
the Kntetiti would consldei.
Think llerlln Wnnta Peace.
ilerniaiiy's position cn peace Is no
longer a feciet. Tim Herlln Govern
ment takes the iKultlon that the Cen
tial Powera have won the war and that
live or ten or twenty .tears mote light
ing would not materially (hangc t'ne rel
atlto isisltlons of the opposing armies.
"Why, therefore, continue Hie slaugh
ter."' This Is the question w'nlch comes
i.ow from oill.-lal Herman circles here.
"Hcrmany has won the war. The Kn
tenti will havi to acknow bilge It sooner
oi later and It might as well acknowl
edge It now."
In tlew of the fact that Jeace talk
has taken this foim the meie mention
of iieace to Itrltlsh. French or Itusslan
diplomatists is tantamount to asking
taem to admit that the I'ntente Is
bfate President Wilson, it Is explained,
Hilly realb.es this.
The opinion Is held Hi diplomatic cir
cles heie that the Herman Hot-eminent
l.ellexes that race talk Is excellent prop
aganda In neutral countries. This, It
i added, Is calculated to create the lm
I lesslon that th lntcnte Is tesponslblo
for the prolongation of the war.
Itut the llrlt.sh and IVench (.Intern
ments .belle, e t'i'at Hermany's peace
(Herturcs am now based on more than a
d'flrc to linpres neutrals, They belletc
that Heilln foresees breakers abend In
case the war continues another jear or
more and that consequently eare Is be
coming an urgent neoesslt.
DUTCH WANT WILSON
TO AID IN MEDIATION;'
. I
Appeal Made for Cooperation
in Promoting1 Conference
of Neutrals.
BASK I ON 0 HUMAN SiYVY:
j
The ilevlaiat'on by the Herman C.ov-
erm, "' " that twice Hei-
'"' peace l the basis of nn apiieal fori
!!( l.lt nn ,v Pre. dent W son wh eh'"oo '" l"'ll ni- n.i wem aooa.n ll:
"'a teeeited j esterday
bt Hamilton
"o'1 from Hid
f-'oillicll.
Netlif rlaniN Ann-War
.
The appeal propose. that A.n.rican
... ... 1
l"ate orgatilxallons coopcrale hi urging j
Pics-ui.-nt tt qon to pioniote a confer-1
ener- of neiltiils to offer mediation for a
dumb!., pea.e:' i.rsl M ts forth that not
only the Imtrh fioveinment but tho
Uotornnient of Swltxurlaud and the Sec-
end Chamber of Sweden ate desirous of
neutral mediation in the war '
..X Oigan.t '
7itt0) fo,. )llr,e peace, said a mee'tlng
will bo held a soon as possible by the."1'' nowr waning ioi- inem in
Ameilcaii members of the Cential Or-
f,nnU"'"; . ."iM Vf .,,,B, HP,,cal from
ill.- ,'wiwi .min i, nil,,- 11,111 eejjl ill
ol,r ,,C;l0 societies and will probably
also reach President WINon. The appeal
says
5-
Hie Committee Anti-Oiiilag Itaad
I All.l-'t,!. J ,...,, ..II I ni.llut.ln
tn fi f!cn3 overlin, ,n
nn)f )n Amlt.a ,))a ltvct
"h- U, U aswllllg.tobrlng
, p(.are ; n,.u. rausp fnr ,.,.
tin- action from neutral sides
"The Swedish Second Chamber lias
olllelally exptessed a wish for ooopeia-
tlte neutral mediation. Aliti-Oorlag
Oov-
strong ror
similar notion. Herein speeches of
TVnhmaiin-llollwcg ami At-quith open
Hisslbllltles of conrlllatlnn.
"The I'uli'h committee hopes jou will
deem possible the cooperation of Ameri
can peace organizations, and etentually
the Mohouk conference. In urging Crest
dent Wilson In nromote a conference of
neiitials to offer mediation for durable
peace and an international system whlcli
will secure the principle of equil ilghla
for nil civilized States, ns Asqulth has
described the purposo of the Allies."
$2,000,000 AUTO DIVIDEND.
Palge-llelroll tlolor Car lo, Cnta
MO Per Cent, stork Melon.
PRTlmlT. Mii 11 Directors of the
Palge-Detrolt Motor Car Company at a
meeting to. day iirclired an tij per cent
I0.
The dividend has a par value, nf
4400,000 nml a market value of about
JI.000,000. There will b 1900,000 In
stock outstanding when the dividend is
paid. No dividend rate was decided
upon, hut the pre. cut stock has been
paying .' per rent, a month In cash.
FIHST SHAVETEEIA IN WORLD.
CVo flarher, -o Tlpai Von Do
it
Yourself for at Dime,
Ciiicaiio, May II, A man with a
neglected face walked hurriedly south on
Fifth avenuo to-day. He rubbed his un
welcome whiskers and came upon the
woild'a first "shaveterla."
"Shave yourself," said the sign. "No
barbers, no Hps. no waste of time. All
the comfortH of home, Step Inutile,"
Tho man did. On one -tide wns a
row of compartments. Kach had a lita
tory1 and nil the Implements for "hav
ing, The man stepped Into one of them,
shaved himself, sprayed, dried and pow.
ilereii his fare, deposited one dime and
continued on Ills way.
1 Mien lOMiii. 11 11.1 1 1 111 iiu iht cpiii.
I ill III' eimn " ni- iruuiTU ii.rni . in, m
SAYS M'ADOO SNUB
ANGERED ALL PERU
.Mininjr Knjiinopi- From liiniii
Ih'sci-ihcs "Visit" s Itpnlly
h Slnp in tin- Kmt.
SCAIIKh OFF TSY IM-AMt'K
8 1. ..(Mill Sicnt (iottiiiir Kciiilv
for Ktitpi'tiiiiiiiiciit Thnt
IMdn't Tiik I'Iiiip.
The mine Itatmond (inter, mining
engineer, of Lima, Pent. Iris his mind
dwell on William Ulhbs .McAdoo. Sec
retary of the Tleaniij. the madder he
gets. .Mr. (iuyer's estimate of Stcre.
tnry McAdoo's illplomalic ability and
common sense Is simply unlit for publi
cation. Mr. Uuyr has H ol in Peru for tweKe
yeais ami leliirned to lids country es
terday on the 1'nlled Fruit steamship
Almlrante. He ays he siinuiiarlr.es Ilic
opinion of !in AmeCcaii reldeiil. of
Lima. Callao and olhe" Peruvian cities
when he nisei ts that the unnecessary
snub Secretary .McAdoo gate to the
Peruvian not-eminent and to the people
of Peru on the occasion of the visit to
Callao of the armoud eiuler Tennessee
with the International High Commis
sion on t'lilformlty of Laws did quire
to hurt the relations between Peru nml
the Cnlted Staffs than anything that
has ocrutred In a quarter of a century.
"M.". McAdoo's dlcoirt sy to the Pe.
ruvlans was unpardonable." said Mi.
Ouerat the Waldorf-Astoria last night.
"He practically slapped in the face one
of the niol courteous nation., on atth
when ha took advannige of a qu nan
tine excuse to avoid be, ng i iiteitnlned.
He bus got I in us American In Peiu
Into a llii nies W - hud Just atrited
at the point wlnn Pe.uvl.ms wete be
ginning to think that we Americans
really likd them nml wanted to lie broth
erly and tveie not down there to grab
their last dollar when along came the
Tennessee, and McAdoo and upset all
of the good woik w, had been doing
for years.
Tell. Sor of lsll,
"AT, one can hear now- in Pe n i
the (ommeut oh. M s Jut whai we
expected. We tried to be courteous lo
ine Ameticanos ami tli'-y gate it a
ilck It merely shows thee b.itv no
manner- and do not like us '
"The storj i f the Tennessee's visit
to Peru has neer been told," inniinued
Mr C.ujei. "With the memU-is of the
thenimored Vrtib-er Tintc!r-it 'ni'!
lao at ? A, .M on April .'.1 in liotioi
j of the distinguished Americans a holi
day had been declined In the titles,
Callao and Lima wete guy with banners,
"the Intertwined flags of Peru and thn
1 1 'tilled States. In Callao garden nartlcs
irZ ,!
at nom More than ,',,i"ni had l-een
penl by the IVruvians getllnc ready
10 "etui 1110 .ticxiioo party. 1- was a
oik ming now 11 mere aim u was a
mighty imisirtaui tn ng fin the Ameri-
can rldents.
"Well, th Tennessee .ro.p,.il anchor
promptly Informed the caplalu of the
shin and Air .Mi til 10 as w.ih 1ns r,n-.
mat duty, that tbeie uno eases of
blilMinle plavue 01 C.1IU10. The McAdo
l'rty P'''nptl dev. Iop.,1 . old f.,.. Nw
atiybodj' who bas-eter been In ilic tropi.v
nm, ,.,., p , nK. ntioo.1
01 a white man geit.ic the hiili.it. Ic
plague as there Is of catching lepmsy In
'." . . A. . Z T , , ""","
i,i-.,,i, i.j.-l- ,n.. 111
hate gone was 11s wife a" Itltcislde
,',r've'
" bad landul at 1 all.10 II would
-'' " '
"'""'d have been a small pi be to pat for
1 1 eru. 11111, no, ir. in,- .tu.tuoo outnt
tlcldtM liiii'i lone,
I in. t'etiu lan .secreta or Male and
lour iioisiei, ii-iiiuii eii'.ii oiiiii, went
I "'"""''I TeuncMi. and 111 gued the
imilii'i, oiiiiijr 11111 inai 11 iiugm oe
well to cable to Washington for Institu
tions, and suggesting that the Teiinesiee
could be taken 10 the healthful port of
Ancon, ten miles north of Callao. No
use. Finally Ihe Secretary of Slate and
our Minister gate up and went nshoie.
"liter at Lima, eight tulles fiom Cal
lao, the breakfast pail waited In tain.
Some of lib Americans who weie thcie
slipped ii.h, seeing the linger rising in
the ecs of our good fileniH 11 was no
place for us. Then, to our .iniaveniiiit.
McAdoo came nshVe alone, hurt led to
Lima and had a brief chat with Presi
dent .lose Paula of Peru at the 1 iov-
ernment palace. If h mid land atone,
why not the others" Why cotilrtu'i they
have appeared at Hie bteakfast and gar
den party" Wh was It that Mr Mc
Adoo could bestride the quarantine rigu
latlon 11 ml nolsidy cl-c could'' These ate
questions we hate been asking ourselves
eter since.
"The-Tenncsfce didn't leave Callao
until ."1 7'. M, After she got lo sea Mc
Adoo renewed to President I'aida by
wireless his excuses for failing to ap
pear at tlie ceremonial nffalis A lot of
good III. it did! The Petuvlniis knew they
had been shabbily treated and they are
not going lo forget It ten soon. The,
whole thing has set us back Immeas
urably. And file ciuNe of flic. Ten
nessee was foe tin pirrpose, we weie told,
of establishing better feeling'
"Tlie Permian newspapers weie mine
than nice almut ihe whole unpleasant
business, l.n I'rciisn and III Coiiiorlo,
the two papers of Lima, gate tho facts
merely, without comment. Hut nuylsidy
could read the story between the lines.
"Thern were some good liemoerats,
Wilson men, among the Americans In
J'eru before McAdoo came, but If them's
one left I miss my gue-ss. They are P'ay
lug forn Hepuhllcan landslide, I thought
I was 11 fairly hot Republican before this
happened. Now I'm but nine, Just burn
ing 1"
Mr, Hitler ubRcrretl '.Suit Peru rym
pathlzcs Hlrnngly with the, Allies, There
Is much pro-Herman feeling In Chile,
however.
LONG FLIGHT TO NEW YORK.
Arlator to Leave Angustn Tii-mnr-row,
Her king; Distance llrcord,
Afill.'MTA, Oa., May 1 1. II. S. Itllie
hart, Instructor at the Wright winter
aviation school, plans to leave here nt
4 o'clock Saturday ninnilng for New
York and Ikms to land 011 novernuiB
Island at 5 o'clock in the afternoon,
lie does not expect to stop on the Hip,
and will fly over Columbia, S, c. j
nalelgh, N. C. : Richmond, Washington,
Ilaltlmore and Philadelphia, ,
COMMITTEE NAMED
FOR MILLS & GIBB
Old Dry Uoods Hoiimc. Meeting
Oiffictiltirs. Acs to Ounrd
Cri'ditors.
ASSKTS TO PAY IN VVlh
Ke.tourcet Said to Ue Kqnal to
.SI.:MI2.:n.n-2 Liahili
tlcs to He Met.
Woilh sheet and Wall stieet as well
weie dicpl.t and regrettably Interested
yesterday In the infoimatloii which
le-aked out In the course of the day of
the appointment of a committee of proml
nent bankers and merchants to conserve
tlie assets or liquidate the affairs of the
well known and Impottant white goods
Johblnr and Importing house of Milts
& Hllib. The firm, which was succeeded
by 11 corporation of the same name,
formed under the laws of New Jersey In
December, ISMi, s ,,iie nf the historic
concerns of the cltt and operates alo
In ISoston, Philadelphia. Chicago. St.
Louis and San Francisco hi this country
It has branches also In Nottingham,
Kugland, Paris, Cauilry and St. Pierre
Les Callals. France; SI. Hall. Switzer
land, and Plaueu. Saxony Tho founders
of tlie oilglnal house, Philip Mills and
.lohn C.lbh, died years ago and none of
theli direct hells are Interested In the
pieseut concern, of which William T
Ktans, well known as a. collector of
American art. Is president. With him as
director are Frederick A Valentine,
William Itoescher. Knill F. Hrlesmej.
(ieorge I'andall. Frank Uiwal and John
It. Davl. The company occupies a
haniNome building of its own at Fourth
avenue and Twenty-second stieet and
transacted h large business.
ll is iindei stood thai lite membeis of
tlie present illieetorate of .Mills & UIMi
will leslgn In favor of the members o'
tlhj committee or others to be -elected
b ihe committee In carrying out tlie
ithabilitatlon or liquidation of the cor
Isiiatlon. ' L'ntll Its alTalrs hate been
thor Highly investigated It Is Impossible
for 1I11: committee to say whtther It will
nc j jsiole to continue the business or
tn.!. liushinoie, Itlsoee Stern of (51
L.eulway, . ounsel for the committee,
ntvlini'd to iIImui the matter 111 any
tta1 last night and Piesldent L'tans
.i.nlined himself to the following brief
stal 111 ..l .
For some tune past It has been In
101. tempi. itloii to Intioduce new Inter
tsts Into the business of this company,
nil the original proprietors sate myself
hating died. The company now tlnds
Itself In a situation which compels It
to seek .some Indulgence at the hands
of those holding Its obligations.
The roinpany has abundant assets
to meet all obligations. Its current
business Is cxttcmcly good, as tare also
Its collection, and It is bie.ied to meet
tills temporary embarrassment with
out any sus'iensmn of budness,
Mesrs, Jiweph 11. Mai tlndale, piesl
dent of the fllillllc.il National Hank,
.1. Harper Poor of Amory, Drowne &
Co., Kdniund S. Twining of Clarence
Whitman Co., Hubert it Dunn of
Dunn llios. and J. Cheeter Cowdln
of lloinl A iSoiiilwIn bate con'enteil
to act u a loniinlltei In an extension
of i mouths time fur the company to
meet Its obligations, with close super
tisoij powers meantime otee the
liillie. These gentlemen hate agtecil
to a t as Mirh a . omniltlcii In the
Interest of all parties concerned and
it is rxpeited that later on they will
enter the board of directors. The ap
plication for 1111 extension ban already
been preented to a large number of
the principal 1 redltors and Ins been
favorably I eevlt id.
1 tfiiiiinnr of firm's ITalro.
With ibis statement tne following an
rounced 11s a leniiletised summary of the
affairs of the lomp.iny as of .1 Hillary 1,
lMi was given out. In doing so .Mr.
I'vnii" said. "This speaks for Itself and
I hue nothing further to add to-day."
tSs'KTS
Merchandise ' "'
. .i,;i: jit
Ailanee a)uint en account
of l!1 lllilae COT. 41 C. 1 4
i mt st tuI in e accounts imd hit's
recell'ilhle . 1.54H.MJ (I
llttirii and inachlner . di--
rininted . . 4(i,SJ,l
I'lirxliH'l Fire Innirance 3,fii)0 0(1
ll.lale, llel tsllie 7 4 l.'.li
.'.t'h in lisnki . int.sjj.si
ii 3-i:.3is t:
1.1 A llll. ITI KS
Prrferre,! s i a
k
ll."')! M
IhmI'iI
I'nllllllilll
StOCk
S.oMi.Oite.eii
Issued
Hills pnvslile
Surplus .
?.3o.000.io
31 III
. t.S5j.31 :
No mention Is made In the foregoing
statement of an original Issue of ,
OnO.OOft S per lent, debenture bonds, of
which Pool's Manual of Industilals for
I'll fi leports $.i0n,(i00 luiving been re
deemed. I'.epnits current Hi flnnuclal
circles weie to the elTect (hat Ihe com
pany's obligations were approximately
$2,000,(100, bill whether this is indepen
dent of tlie ilebenluies outstanding could
not be ascertained, And aside from
this much Interest was expressed by nel
sons who compared Ihe statement of
Mills Hlbb as set forth above with
one furnished by the corporation to com
mercial paper denlcis, In connection with
their offers of paper.
This stall nieul, which Is ou tile in
the credit department of local hanks,
hears Ihe dale of February 4, lfflfi, and
td'iows nssels and liabilities of iri.nS'.'.no,
made up as follows.
ASSKTS.
Mrnhanill-e al net e,t eir
le.s l.sr.,9.(n
Adcaiiee payment mi HHseuiint
nf Hlli nuts
OiititHtiillnt Himunts and hill
rerelval'ls
Fixtures and inaihiner. dl
cnunted I'liexplred lire Insiirunrs ..
Ileal estate, net taluo
r.i.h In hniiku . ..
f7,4U' 00
i,:j,ijo.oo
4(,S7.00
.-..ooo.ori
J4J.J2I 00
in.'.5:;.no
LIAHII,ITIi:.
I'referi ed s I e k
tnud l.:0(i('ii
C.ii'l...... SH'li
nlii . 2.000,000,00
tlllls payable . ;,H6ft,0(in,no
Siirn'us . ... TSO.P30.oo
t;,iii:.nu.i)0
Mrniiu. I'oinnilttrr Selected.
Opinions both In the dry goods and
financial districts differ as to Hie cir
cumstances leading up to tho present
action, which, It Is admitted, haa been
Inken In the Intetest nf the company's
banking mid merchandise creditors. An
announced last night a strong commit
tee has been udecled, lit this are Jo
m'pli ll, Martlndalc, piesldent of the
Chemical National Hank; J, Harper
Poor of Amory, Hrnwn & Co anil F.d
waul S. Twining of Clarence Whitman
H Co., dry goods commission merchants,
Confintird oa Last Papa.
SCOTT AND OBREGO
TO AGREE ON WITHDRAWAL;
ANOTHER RAID IN TEXAS
STATEMENT OF THE GENERALS
ON RESULT OF CONFERENCE
TIi PASO, May ll. The statement issued at the close of the confer
ence to-nitrht on the withdrawal of the United States troops from
Mexico follows:
That, after several conferences, marked throughout by con
spicuous courtesy and Rood will, at which conferences mutual im
pressions were exchanged and Information was collected upon the
military situation on the frontier, it was nj ecd upon by the con
ferees to suspend the conferences and report back to their respective
Governments in order that these may be able, through their re
spective Foreign Departments, to conclude this matter.
Thnt the ending of these conferences does not mean, in any
way. the rupture of the good relations of friendship between the
conferees nor between the respective Governments.
A. OBREGON,
H. L. SCOTT,
NATIONS IN DEADLOCK ON
RECALL OF U. S. FORCES
Failure of Scott-Obregon Conference Causes Grave
Fears in Washington Moves Made to
Strengthen the Border Forces.
WASin.xiiTo.x. .tla 1 1 -The failure of
the Scolt-i ihsogou eonfereme on the ills
poltion of the Anieihan ttoops hi Mex
ico caused grave apprehension In orl
eial elides heie to-night.
It Is ei Idem to all here that tin Cnlted
Slates and Mexico have reached a dead
lock over (he punlllte expedition.
Mexlro as they iiillt leave. Cnlted
States sa the will sta.t.
Hen. Tasker 11. ll, acting chief of
staff, came to his ofllce tale to-night for
news from Hen. Smtt. but none had
come A ie pot i is expected earlt to
niortow Llesle Aiiclondo, Mexican Ambassa
dor designate, indicated to-day that the
failure of Gens. Scott and Obregon to
agree would hate a very' unfortunate
effect on the Mexican people, ilt would,
he said, he taken as an indication that
the Cnlted States (misted oil violating
Mexican soteielgnty lights toy main
taining sn aimed force In Mexlqo with
out the Mexican Government's consent
und despite Mexico's etraphatli protest.
Settlement f.f this matter through
diplnmatle channels Is also regarded a
likely otmeaii further delay with the
consequent daugeta from the ineeraslng
hostility of the Me.xl-.in people to the
American expedlton.
WisiiiNiiTii.v, May 11. Apprehension
among Hovernment officials as to what
may happen In the '.Mexican situation,
with negotiation" at a standstill on the
lorder and in Washington. iv 'tl -
deuced to-la.t by mote, taken by the
War and Stale departments.
Line offl.ct.s of the army, assigned tn
the various service schools throughout
the country, ncluding the armv War Col
lege, wire ordered to Join their c -ill-mand''
on the .Mexican border In order
Ctat thev ,nl .'hi do this the Department
has arianced for the r graduation ahead
of tinir.
This action lias been taken as a result
nf a shortage of oiTIrers r.ot only for the
training of tin- mil:lia legltnents whlcn'
hate been called to the colors but also
n the regulat imiii organizations In the
Held.
Should lie Mexican situation giow
mote serious and it In -omes necessary
to Interteiie, it 1 said, thcMlrst cla
nt West Point, whk'.i -ladniites In June,
will be given their diplomas alic.nl of
time and assigned to commands
It was annouiueil also at tin War De-'
partinent that the Xatlonal c.uaid or
ganization, of Arizona, New Mexico and ,
Texas will be mustered into the regular
rertlie for the full period of their present i Jll!lr j, Morln nml the two De l.agarza I ' '"'D of Torieon. XacateeMs and Aguas
enlistments with the State mtlltla. w th ex-Vllllste ""' ""r-ughly rid norlhern
no fpecltlc period of Federal service "ni.t.. i.mh ami Ionia.-, i x-t llllsta M, N(i.0 of ,,( b ,M
etlpulaled.
tlust s,..e Terms.
Se.ietar Maker has advised the of-
flcetx on the border ill charge of 'the
mobilization i.f the State force that only
when the tiertices of the guardsmen are
no lot'jer tniulreil will they be telcased
befive the'r enlistments explie
The same piocrastlnatlng tactlci be
ing put sued by Hen. obregon In his con
ferences with Hen. Scott are being e-m-PIoed
at till end by Lllseo Arredondo,
the Mexican Ambassador designate.
Although hinting ietenlay that Car
ranza would be willing to wlthdiaw his
demand fvr a time limit on the presence
of the .Mnellean for.'es In Mexico, Arre
dondo tailed at the State Depailnieut
tn.day and is iindei stood to have In
dieated again to Secretary Lansing tint
desire of his Hovernment to bate a
definite expression from the United
States as to tlie length of tune Its forces
will slay below the Itio Grande.
Ids statements to Mr. Lansing. It Is
said, we o more dellnlto In character
man iney nate i.e.-,, ai a i on. m. i.-
loiore, Mini ine coon i coi i- o, oit.e
resiineo ill no ii'iiimi rii.i o,'.s ,. ,.iij
kind
When Pecret.ir.i of War Maker left
the War Department al ii o'ehvk this
etching he declared that he had heard
nothing whatever from Hen. Scott con
cerning the latter' conferences with
Gen. Obregon to-day
Mniillloii Held 'p.
Meantime the customs authoi Itles.
under InstrucHiiiih from Washington, sre
seeing to It that not a caitrldge or rlile
cresses the American lioider tn the Car
ranza nutboiitles any more than to any
other faction In Mexico.
Tlie tactics aie Mill being pursued of
explaining the delay In approving such
illpillenl.- oil loil ground Of this GOV
ernnient's desire tn make sure dial llicy
will not fall into unfriendly hands.
Whllo It Is said that a breaking off
of Ihe negotiations without result
would keep the same policy respecting
munitions In operation, only In the
event of an overt act of hostlllt. on tlio
nart of Hire Cn rauzlstas would this Got
eminent relmpose an nbsolule emhnrgo
on such shipments,
Alarmed by tlie leportu that the Stale
Department hid seen fit to reiterate lis
warning to Americans, to leate .Mexiio,
Counsellor Mania of Hie Mtitlsh I'm
hasay called nt the State Department
this " afternoon for the purpose, It Is
said, of obtaining information concern
ing the safety of foreigner generally
Appiehcnylnrf Is felt In Itiltlsh ipiai-
FREDERICK FUNSTON.
teis that If thete Is atij genrial uprising
In .Mexico against Americans the Mexi
cans might not be able to distinguish
between Americans and Kngllshmeii. It
Is understood that Mr. Ilarclay was told
that the action of the Department was
based rather on fear of what inlirhl
happen In view of th uncertainties of
the situation than on any manifesta
tions or hostility against Americans.
According to the latest figures obtain
able at the State Depattmeiit toneern
Ing the number of Americans In Mexico,
the total six weeks ngo showed less than
.1,000 in the entire country, most of them
being located in tin xlcinlty of Mexico
city ami along the east and west coasts
of Mexico, only a few uto said to re
main n I'liihuahua and Sonora, wheto
the eondltlous are mot unsettled.
Olllcers of th" War Depaitmeiit esll
mate that should the need arise about
x.noo additional regulars could be drawn
from the Coast Artillery Corps without
seriously crippling that organization, al
though according to tho last figures
taken the number of Coast Artillery
men now in the Cnlted States is about
13,1100.
Secretary Baker Insisted to-day thnt
at present he Is not considering the ad
visability of calling out any more Na
tional Huaid troops or adding any more
to the regular force on the botder.
silent on teRollatliina.
The White House Is maintaining in
absolute silence regarding the negotla -
Hons heie and on the border. Persons
,.i, i n,a .i,i. ,t i,.' "
1 centli1,' however, declaro that while lie 's
stin op,,.,,,,,, , tho ,,,Cil f ntcrventlou
he Is drtenmned not to order a with
drawn of the American fortes until
very possible safeguard Is assured for
the protection of the border Stiles
agnlnt the Mexican outlaws.
BIG VILLISTA PLOT TO
RAID BORDER NIPPED
0.
Thri'f Cliiofs Arrt'tti'd
t.iil. nf ('niispiriicy to Sim'.p
I'. S. Towns Hhit-iI.
S.ts' A.s-roNio, Tex, Ma II
(Jen
cuieis ami wen Know u as Dating neeti
ideiitltled with the led llaggers who were
lesponslhli for the San Diego plan, were
j arrested to-day by agents of the Dep.n t-
metit of Ju.stlce and an held on chaiges
of conspiracy to excite rebellion
(Soernmctit olllcers lecoveiid papers
Kiting the plot and outlining the vlau
of insurrection, which called for the
seizure of about twenty tow lis In south
west Texas, including Laternl.t. Cal
furlas, San Mm cos, Laredo, llrow list l.le.
Falls City, Kingsville, Saspaimo and
other smaller settlements near the bor
der. Mote than 200 Mexicans designated as
commandets of the vatious dltlslons
were selected and a list of these Is now
hi possession ()f seen t set tire oillci;rs.
It Is expecled that many more driest
will lie made.
At a given hour the Insurrectos in each
town were to cut the telephone and tch
graph wites, put the electric light n:nl
water plant euit of commission and then
take possession of the town In the name
,f ., .,,., Out of eighty ten homes
or Mexicans searched modern rllle and
ammunition were found in setentt-six
Fedi'ial olllcers hate maintained a sti.ct
Mirteillauce otet the thrie, men uniloi
anest for six weeks
ANOTHER RAD) ON TEXAS.
XI... lean. Inns a.rln.n II -.!
Meileao. Loot American llanehe. ;
.rr tiara thon, j
MAlitruoN, Tex., May 1 1. Anotliei
raid h a band of Mexicans over tlieim' u"l 1'iepaird lo lesumr the discus.
Texas line Is irpnrlrd south of here. Tin
new s was (nought hen to-night and the
lepot'i silil that the hnndlts raided fey
era I laiiches on Ihe Tcxiik sldo and
drove off horses and slock, taking them
, back Into .Mexico.
.ie i r ioeh iois, m were huiiied ,l,n
lepott sold.
Anui icim forces chasing Ihe bandits,
. which raided Hleii Springs, Hoi-ulUa I
. and other points near the Mexican hot di-r I
In Texas last Friday and Saturday ate 1
, icporlcd to. night as well on their wnt
into Mcxleo, hating crot.ed the line last
ulghl.
M, P.'s sullied lo Conscription.
fidiil i nhlr lci,nt(l' tit Tnr i t
LoMni.s', Ma 11. -It has bt en de
rided thai eligible mrtnbei of I'a'lia
111' ilt shall be subjected to coiif'i .pMon
III I-(IS Itltt.lt l. l..tt, sr,M
tnijiiy fiom New nik, tuinorrov Cn,iu .tl
hunt , see Me.iuitinai p.ii;cJfat ,ron.' t.uir
.I'd'
rfTAIL
t M
Mill tor Left o lc Softloff
hy Both Govern -incuts.
MIX I ST Kl INSISTED
l S. TROOPS GET OH!
Aiui'iiciui Generals Finn
That Villa Must lie
("a light First.
NEXT MOVE AWAITED
WITH AlTKEirENSTOX
Mexican header Tells of
i(iiurinr More Soldiers
Xorth.
Ll. Paso
smee April
May 11 After conftrntig
10 Hen. obregon and Hen.
Scott dtclded to-night that It was U'ele
to continue their elfotts to leconcile the
dlffelences of the two mutinies over th
American expedition Into .Me.xn o and ad
journed their sessions.
Hen. obit gun will Itnti at once tor
I Mexico city and (Jen Scott ncconipanltel
by Hen. runston, will go llrsi to Colum
bus, X, M., to inspect the Ame-iean army
base thete and then to San Antonio, tip
Army Headquaitera. The, will inspect
the ntw base at Marathon established for
the second American pumtlte, expedition
Into Mexico on their way to San Antonio,
Gmi Scott will then return to Winhira
ton In adjourning their confe.rciue hue
Hen. Scott, obregon and Fill stun t-s a..l
a Joint statement. In which they deelnre-i
that their meeting had been peaceful and
fileinlly and that the frlendl;. ielation
of the two coiir.ttlts would continue As
if to piovh this the thne Ueneials, ac
toiiipauleil by .loan N. Ainadot. Sub-Si i
ret.ny of Mexican Foreign P.rlnt!on,
took dinner together iie-tho private car of
Hen. Scott In HI Paso shortly after the
llnal conference adjourned.
Hen obregon returned to I s piivat
team in Jtl.nez afte- the r.infere.iee ,mt
1 i iiime dialelv returned to Ll I 'am to the
car and dined with tin Aiucvi'-aii of
li.ers. ,, . 1 .
' i"- '''IV- bt" ' Prog;w 'Vre
been .seven meetings. Including tw
During the peilo.1 in which toe im
itate
been .seven inn tings. Including two to-
' and niirc than a scori' (if formal
i r1V',,,,nBM -.tW,rJ' '"OU 'V
obregon, The . onfcii m e spilt upon the
lemaiiil or Hen. oiiii giin that the Xnieri
lan tiiniim b. withdrawn mil Mexico ,u
a sp.'illbd tune
Hen. Scott insisted tttat i.ie iroops
would only bo wtthili.iwu w ten ih
Cnlted States was fully satisfied thai lll
Villa bandits had been punished for their
ra'il on Columbus, N. M and thai Ihe
de facto i lovernnient of Mexico was In a
P""itlon to prevent lulute lalds ino t'n
Cnlted Slates.
Hell, obregon Insisted that 1 'c t n ld
Statis set a dale on whiih Its aunt-
would retire and offered to furnish uff'
'clem Cairanz.i trooin to vroper'y gua-d
I the Mexican sale of tlie line c .-un-
,.-,( , intvit ."liiic- .-.i.iiioii I
1 slmil'i'- iiiimher of t-.,op.- along tc
J Aineriinu side of tin 1 ie to ilou'dy pro-
1 tcct the lui'iler.
Sinni.tiitieously w'lh the breaking up
of the innfereiKe Urn obtegon stated
'olficlallv that .'..ii'in Carrnnza trexips
weie being moved north from the vl-
, nt.ng '
i Americans in mun.
tses p:nrid
! 'Ilffeiiiit const i uctton upon the mot c
men
t ie tioups Th me-tean
I forces m Mexico r.
' aiiged wilh their
t-iw ining teat
Iiase at Cnlonu
Dim. an. 1 .10 units fiom the American
horilri. drawing In nil small deiachnienis
fi.-:li.i' smith that might ha to dlftleulti
.ii d'seugagitig thcmsel.es should the
be atiiickeil b nny latge fo'-cc ot Mexi
can t.'nops.
Hui. obregon placed the order for th
divariuie of Ins tt,i, for the south at
'.' o'clock tu-hlghi befoie he left .lu.ios
to-night I, i a'tenil Hen Siott's dinner
Tn sessions llelri,
Two iiiiifereiues were held lo.daj h.
tween Hen. obtegon and en. Scott". Ihn
Mrt one opened this morning al eleten
o'clock ami lasted for two hours Th
second opened this afteinoon at four
The lonfeieiue during thu niotntu
bouts was chiir.ictei lze, by firmness o
the pan of Hen. Scott and a great elt 1 1
of aigunient on the part of Hen Obregor
and his associates.
Dui'iig ihe rally part of the meet.rg
Hen. I'uiision entered Into the lam 11
I lain ir'iniied to the prltHte la
I which In lltes lo alleiid In army m.i .
! ii is and left Hen. Scott riailtug
papir presented by Dbrrgoti in ope cor.
nei of the leecptlon room
Hen obicgou walked up and down
1 '"' lrll "' H"" COI11PII rttlletll, f tupped
m .,,,,, .nmmunlcate soma view
to Juan Ainadoi After considerHbbi
! inoiignt ne inuirntcu to (,en. .Scntt thai
!,nn
! Then Hen. Funslon epieied and Hie
' (,mr "ieii drew up their rhalrs i lne. s
1 small table was plated between them
nml a good deal of conveisatlnn nreiurrri
while papeis weie exchanged The im
loessloli w 111. h Hen Sen, I enni e ed ar
luii I lie i onfei etice wero rapidl.t ilr.tnitig
to a iio-c and that Hm Amerirnii lint-
ei niuent pinposes to lemaln on tlie poini
of ttoop suiting In Mexico until the
bn milts aie exterminated,
Hei olmgon made Hilditnnal coutitei
piiu.,ais. it is said, all of winch wins
P In, o rd on the withdrawal of troim
Tiivi.d the t'iinclu'loii of the tinirniiig
si-moii Hen Scott presented his pri ipon
aie w lo il"ji. obregon ami n doing y i he
ii-iiI coiiuis iliat iiiilicilf il ilo.ii.u
I'aiui! is Mnrlsting th.n e ica.
Hoops wilhdraiV from the I'au.il .1 ti-,. '
mid from .Mcsn o", 'and tuient i -i
inn ted to nave been made ireic I'm '
the Culled Slates troops did o ' "
ill. iw ihei would again biatt,i ken
, This infoi mat on was recced b an
t.
