What to Weai
And How to Wear It?On the
Woman's Page Daily
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate and
Court N ws in The T.-D.
66th YEAR
VOLl'MK no
M'.MniCK f.\2
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1910.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
?m?k'Vkm ~ FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Infatuated Man Then Sends Bui-'
let Crashing Into His
Own Brain.
DOUBLE TRAGEDY AT NORGE
Bodies of Mrs. Marston and F. C.
Beatty Found in Former's
Home.
rSpecial to The Times-Dispatch.]
N'OKGB. VA? May 11?F. C.
Be:?tty, of Richmond. employed a1! a
t?')<5graph operator at tlift Chesapeake!
an'! Olilo Railway .station hero. shot I
?n?l killed .Vi c. Sullivan Krayfser,
Marston, wife of Thurston A. Marston.
ht?rc to-day, ami then killed himself.
Tho double tragedy occurred about
noon. hut. fhe hodle* were not found
until 3 o'clock, when fterny .f. Graves,
another ChcFapeake ami Ohio telegraph |
operator, went to Marston'w home t?? j
?*<f "rtr?in why Beatty had not reported
for work to rollcve hitn. The bodies
v..re lying on the floor of ihe parlor, j
an ndjoining room, unconscious of j
the tragedy, the three-year-old daugh-j
'**j of i he dead woman was asleep on!
a hed. |
Mrs. Marston'* hu:*hard wa? a tele-.
graph operator here, but now is at'
i
I atawha Sanatorium lieatty was sent)
from l(i<;htnond to Nor if* relieve him"
at '! was making his h"m?* v. ith the
?M.ii "tons. Mrs. Mnrston had be?n at j
the ho.'r.e of her father, Commissioner j
? of Revenue W. B. Frayner,* In Henrico j
County, and had come t<? Norge for'
the day to attend to som* household '
duties, bringing her child with her..
During the morning she sent for Dr.;
II L*. Stephenson to attend th* child j
J or some minor ailment. Dr. Stephen-j
s-'n fays that Beatt> was there then
and appeared to be morose.
lir.ATTV INI'ATI ATIOII
with Mits. MAns'ra.v i
'.'??tails ij( tiie uccu r rencc-9 leading up1
to tl.e tragedy are not known, but it!
ir said that Beatty had become til-1
f;ituated with Mrs. Marston, and it tst
jiesut'itd that when she rejected his,
advances h?- decided to kill her and,
himself Mrs. Marston was shot twice.,
oi.e ball entering the forehead and '
one gointr through the heart. The shot
which killed Beauy was sent crushingi
Into toe head just back of the riKht oar. j
Mr,. Marston leaven two children.'
the youngest nine, monthe old' her
father, mot iter. four brothers and tiiree
[ I! K'Vf ,
Re.itty leaves a wife and four rhil-'
<1 '?<-1:. th<- young'.st three weeks of aue,
all of whom are in Norge. ,
Friends of Mrs. Marston say that she'
v .is absolutely blameless for Beatty's i
infatuation, and that she was held in j
h Kh esteem by all who knew her. Her.
body will he taken to Richmond to-1
n orrow morning and burial will take
place in Hollywood Cemetery.
Beatty's body will l?c taken to Rose
mil. Va . for burial
Mrs. Marston was a dauglhet of \V. j
i. I'rayser, Commissioner of Revenue,
f..r the lower district of Henrico Coun-I
ty, who lives on the Osborne Turn- j
? pike, about threo miles east of Rich- .
p-.ond. The family, while advised of
the tragedy late yesterday afternoon,
had heard nothing further from Norjre ?
early this morning. Two brothers. W.I
A and Laurence T. Frayyer, went to,
Norge on a late train last night and [
wilt bring the body to Richmond thlsi
morning at 5:4f> o'clock.
PARKER MILLS TO BE SOLD
Mailt PInntr, In Hampton firoup, OIji-.
pitted Of to Xetr York Company j
for About
<>REENA1LLE, S C., May 11.?Di-j
rectors and stockholders of the Park-j
er Cotton Oil Mills, In a meeting here;
to-day. decided to sell the. ei?ht mills I
comprising the Hampton sroup, one of j
the subsidiaries o! the Parker Com-1
pany. for a sum something under $3,
(<'>(},dOO. Lock wood, Greene & Co., New
? York, are the purchasers. The eight
mills, including (Iranby, Olyntpta, liich
land and Capital City, of Columbia:
Wylie, of Chester; 1'tne ('reek, of Cam
den; Beaver Dam, of Edgefield, and
Fairfield, of AVinnsboro, have a spin
rile tonnage of approximately 215,000.
The price is a little under Jlft the spin
dle. The other two subsidiaries of the
Parker Mills, namoly, Victor and Mon
ngahan. comprised of eight up-Stnte
mills, will be organized soon. The
Hampton group will be delivered to
the purchasers on June 'J?i.
Creditors of the Parker Cotton Mills
Company, as a result of the sale, will
receive 70 per cent of their debts in
rash and .10 per cent in preferred stock.
WRECK BLAMED ON ENGINEER!
"|, t, I'. Make* Iteport on .\ew York j
t'rntrsil Disaster Which Cost
Twenty-Seven I.Hen.
\\ \SHINOTON, May II.?The wreck
on the. New York Central lines near
Cleveland on March "0, in which
twenty-seven persons wero killed and
forty-seven injured, was due, the In
terstate Commerce Commission re
ported to-day, to tho failure of En
gineer Hess to see the signals or to
read them properly on account of the
dense fog in which his train was
^ running.
The report to the commission cites
the engineer's record since 1900 to ;
show that he had been four times sus
pended for running past signals, and
was again suspended last Deeembor
for striking the. rear end of a train
at Toledo.
"The record of this accident," the te
* port states, "together with a careful
consideration of a record of accidents
in which employees have failed to obey
tlxed signal indications since July 19,
11)11, brings forcibly to mind the fact
tbnt tho rules relative to speed per
mitted during foggy weather are In
piany instances Indefinite and vague."
i
REACH AGREEMENT !
WITH W. S. FORBES:
i
Last Obstacle in Way of Belt
Line Improvement Is
Removed. j
RAILROAD ORDINANCE SIGNED
I
City Will Begin Construction of j
Drainage System for Open
ing Monument Avenue.
The last obstacle existing |
th* city and the Richmond, Fredericks- i
lnirc and Potomac Railroad Company j
before the resolution of agreement re- I
gnrdlng tho lowering of the Belt I.ino i
track:- and the granting by tl\e I'oin
pany of a right of way over the tracks ;
for the extension of Monument Avenue!
could effectively be carried out, was I
removed yesterday afternoon, when a !
subcommittee of the Finance Commit- ;
tee and W. Forbes came to an un- ;
derst a tiding.
Mr. Forbew had b Ire ad y agreed to j
sell a right of way through his prop- ?
erty for the extension of Monument I
Avenue and the widening of Roseneath
Road for 545.000 and the return of a j
bond of 110.000 given by hlin to puar- I
ante? that the Richmond and Henrico '
Hallway Company would carry out j
certain details demanded by the city, '
and yesterday afternoon he acreed to'
dedicate a right of way in H Street,
which runs east of and parallel to the j
Belt I-lne tracks', for the construction
of a sewer. j
Under the terms of the understand-'
ing between the railroad company and '
the city, the latter is required to con-!
etruct a drainage styntem in the twn;
undeveloped streets paralleling the
tracks, so as to protect tho railway !
cut. A r<;rht of way through Street,
which parallels the tracks on the west t
side. h?s already been procured.
A<.Hi:iCMK\T WITH HAILItOAl)
IS MG\KU 11V MAVOII .
Tho ordinance of agreement between ,
the city and the railroad company \va?
signed by the Mayor yesterday after- )
noon. Under the terms of this ordi- j
nance, the Mayor is authorized to ac- j
cept a dedication from the railroad ?
company of a right of way over its ,
tracks for the extension of Monument ,
Avenue. The railroad company has t
stated that it is anxious to begin work, |
and now that the last intervening dif- !
tieulties have been removed. It may
at once cotntncnce its work of lower
ing the tracks. The city must begin
construction of tho drainage system
before the railroad company starts on
its reconstruction iri order that the l
cut may be protected from overflow.
The cost of the drainage system i3
estimated at $5,500.
Practically all of the property owners
in the \icinity of the Belt Line tracks,
it was stated yesterday, have agreed
that the waste from the cut may he
placed on their land to level it up1
with the approaches. j
The subcommittee, consistjng of
Chairman Grundy, subchairman Seaton
and Alderman Cillmnn, will report the
agreement reached with Mr. Forbes at
the meeting of the whole committee on
Tuesday.
Mayor Ainslic yesterday signed and
forwarded to City Clerk Ben T. Au
gust the ordinance authorizing the
Mayor to accept a deed of dedication
from the Richmond, Fredericksburg
and Potomac Railroad Company to the
city for a right of way for the ex
tension of Monument Avenue over the
Belt Line tracks.
OTHEIl OIIDINAVCl;*
Sl(.\un HV MAVOII
The Mayor also signed the follow
ing ordinances and resolutions: a rea- I
olution authorizing the City School
Board to purchase ati automobile
truck for the mechanics' and delivery
department, at a cost not to exceed
jr.50: a resolution authorizing the j
pay men t of a judgment obtained 1
against the city by L. D. Wlngfield,
on account of the loss of a mule, for
fl'S7.73. with interest and costs; a res
olution transferring $1,500 frsm the'
City School Board's electric transform
ers account to the Water Works'!
expense and improvement account, for
the purpose of extending the water
main from Front Street and Dill Ave
nue southwardly along Front Street
to the alley between Fourth and Fifth
Avenues; a resolution authorizing the i
City Auditor or Special Accountant to
attend the convention of the National
Association of Comptrollers and Ac
counting Officers, to be held at Syra
cuse, N\ T., May 23-June 1; an ordi
nance granting permission to Robert ;
C. Scott to erect and maintain a brick
stable at 70" N'orth Twenty-ninth
Street: an ordinance to require all
dealers in firearms or other deadly
weapons to keep an accurate register
of the number and character of tho
weapons purchased, name of the per
son from whom purchased arid date
of purchase,and tho name and address
of each purchaser and tho date of
purchase and character of tho
weapon, and prohibiting tho sale of
any such weapon not so numbered,
and to repeal an ordinance approved
April IS, 1011, as amended by the ordi
nance approved August IS. 1011.
BARBERLESS BARBER SHOP
Chicago Mini KurnlMheH All Pncllltlc*
for CuKtonier* to Slime Themselves
al 10 Cent* Knch.
I Special to The Tlines-TJlspatch. 1
CHICAGO. May 11.?What is adver-J
tlsed as tho first barberlesa barber,
shop in tho world has been opened in
South Fifth Avenue, where, for a
dime and with no tip, no conversa
tion. no pleadings for a shampoo or a
massage to be rejected, a man may
shave himself. A wash basin, hot and
cold water, razor of any style, mug,
brush, soap, towel powder are fur
nished. The proprietor said to-night
that the ilrst day's business was rush
ing
CONFEREES UNABLE TO AGREE
ON DISPOSITION OF TROOPS
Record-Breaking Flying Boat in Fatal Mishap
The fifteen-ton c'urttes flying-boat -J-IO. which, after breaking all records for tliis class of heavier-lhan-air machine, carrying six persons, fell
in the I'otoiuac. Illver, near Washington, while making a return flight from the capital to Newport .News on Thursday, with the probable loss of two
lives.
SEVERE BOMBARDMENTS !
OF FRENCH POSITIONS
Infantry Actions in Region of Ver
dun Aguin (jive Way to .Ar
tillery Combats.
ALSO RAGING ON BRITISH FRONT
Similar Conditions Prevail in Fight-j
i"g Ret ween Austrian* anil Ital-'
inns in Mountainous War Tlienter. <
lurks Drive Out Russians.
Th? infantry actions in the region of;
Verdun have again given way to bom
bardments, the most severe being of the
French positions in the Calllctte wood, j
and their ?i-c?nt]-linp positions on the
west bank of the Meuse. Artillery
con?l>ats also have taken place on the
front held by the Belgians, and ar
tillery duels have predominated on the
British front. A severe artillery duel
Is in progress around the Hohen/.ollern
redoubt, between the British and Ger
mans. .
The Russians and Germans. <-n the i
western line, are keeping up mutual
bombardments at various points, and
similar conditions prevail in the. fight
ing between the Austrians and Italians
in the mountainous region of the Aus
tro-Italian front.
Constantinople reports that in the1
Caucasus region around Mount Kope,
the Turks in an attack drove out the i
Russians from positions about nine!
and a half miles in extent, and forced :
them to retreat eastward, and likewise i
to the southeast of Mamahatun put the '
Russians to flight.
The Germans, who were defeated '
recently in the Kondoa, Irangi district
of East Africa, have been re-enforced, j
ami are now advancing on the British. ;
A dispatch from the British com- :
mander, however, says his troops are 1
sufficient to deal with the Ger- !
mans.
The British government will permit, j
under certain stipulations, the feeding '
of the civil population of Poland by an i
American commission.
TWO FnBNCll ATTACKS
HKPI'I.SKD IIV CEHIIAXS \
BERLIN. May 11 (by wireless to Say- j
vtile).?Two French attacks on the j
Verdun front, one delivered near Dead
Man's Hill and the other southeast of j
hill 304, broke down with considerable j
losses under the German fire, the War
OfHce announced to-day.
On the eastern front heavier lighting j
is under way. The Germans in one
engagement captured 600 yards of Hus- j
sian positions, taking prisoner 309 uti- j
wounded men.
The statement follows:
"Western front: German aeroplanes '
dropped bombs on Dunkirk arid the ?
railroads near Adinkerke.
"On the Verdun front, west of the ;
Meuse, the French again made an at- '
tack near Dead Man's Hill In the after- j
noon and southeast of hill 304 in the ?
evening. Both attacks broke down in !
the face of our machine gun and artil- i
lery lire. ith considerable losses to j
the enemy.
"In Camard forest, a Bavarian patrol j
captured fifty-four French soldiers.
"The number of uuwounded French ,
soldiers captured since May 4 in the j
fighting near hill 304 has reached 1
fifty-three otlleers and 1,515 men.
"On the Verdun front, east of the. j
Meuse. there was hand-grenade fight- !
ing all night In the vicinity of Calllotte I
wood. A French attack in the wood f
was repulsed. !
"Eastern front: Southeast of the rail- j
road station at Selburg the Germans '
took by storm 500 yards of enemy posi- t
tlons, capturing .109 uuwounded Rus- j
sians and several machine guns and
mine throwers.
"Balkan front: There is nothing to J
report."
It I'.I'L I.SK l> WITH BAYONETS
AM) HAND GHE.VAIIKS \
PARIS. May 11.?German troops made j
an attack last night on French posi- I
tlons near Vaux pond, on the Verdun
front, east of the Meuse. The War Of- |
flee announces that ihis attack was re- j
pulsed. I
West of the Mouse, the statement i
says, there was a vigorous artillery j
action in the region of Avoeourt wood, i
The statement follows:
"In the Champagne, our fire demol
ished a German trench 100 meters long
in the region south of Taliurc.
"On the left bank of the Meuse (Ver- i
(Continued on Second X'age.j ^
s
!Big Flying Boat Falls
Into Potomac River;
Two Aviators Missing
Machine Which Recently
Hrofae Several World's .
Records in Fatal Mis
hap Near W ashington.
[
WASH I NOT O.N". May 11.?Tlic hvrtro- |
aeroplane H-7, said to have been the
largest flying craft in America, and in
w hlch J. C. McCauley recently eslab- I
iished several speed and endurance j
records, was wrecked in the Potomac j
Kivcr, near Mount Vernon, to-day, with
a probable loss of two li\e.?= and serious !
Injuries io McCauley and the two other
persons aboard. The ciaft lost a
propeller while returning- at great;
speed from Washington to the Atlan- !
tic Coast Aeronautical Station at New
port N'tws. After the accident, the
aeroplane plunged 100 feet Into the
river, turning' over three times in its
descent anrl collapsing after it struck
the water.
Lewis Krantz. a mechanician, and !
Charles Good. of Klyria. < a student
aviator, are missing, and as the bodies
have not been found, they have been ;
given up as lost. McCauley and Philip j
Utter, a mechanician, with Mayo Dud- '
ley. a Washington newspaper man. who I
was a passenger, were rescued by a
tug. L'tter was picked up unconscious, i
while McCauley was badly hurt. Hoth !
were taken to a hospital at Alexandria, j
and neither was able to tell to-night j
exactly what happened. Dudley suf- ;
fercd from shock, and, aft<er his return
to Washington, was sent to'a hospital,
lie nlso was unable to give a clear ac
count of the accident to-night.
All three are expected to recover.
TItOI lll.lv WITH I*HOT*E1jL<EH
DEVELOPS ON Til IP UP
The 1-1-7 arrived here from Newport j
News on Tuesday afternoon, bringing I
as passengers John K. Viney. president '
of the Newport News Chamber of Com
merce, and Lieutenant Norman Hill, of I
the Coast Guard service. On the trip
up the Potomac, trouble with one of
the propellers developed, and the craft
descended at Indian Head anil made
the remainder of the Journey on the
water. Pilot McCauley considering it ;
unsafe to attempt further flight until !
the propeller couVil he repaired. 'I'llis j
was done at Washington. In the
meantime. Lieutenant Hill and Mr. j
Viney returned to Newport News 1?
rail.
The flying-boat left here shortly be
fore 4 o'clock this afternoon, and was
off Bryan's Point, seven miles below
Washington, when the accident or - i
curred. The craft struck the water
barely 100 yards from the tug John
Miller, the crew of which rescued Mr- j
Cauley, Utter and Dudley, and made l
a vain search for the others.
A government tug towed the wrecked)
craft to Fort Washington, where it is i
being examined to-night in an elfort
to determine the cause of the trouble, j
The H-7 was only recently com-,
pleled at the Newport News station,
and had several trial flights last
month. Karly In May it broke trio
record for speed and distance traveled, j
and later made another record with ,
its flight to Baltimore. The trip to j
Washington was begun last Tuesday, j
immediately after the craft returned
from Baltimore. The craft weighed i
about three tons, and was propelled by i
two screws driven by two motors of j
ISO horse power each. It had attained j
a speed of more than 100 miles. If j
was a type for which the Russian gov-j
eminent is said to have placed several,
orders
A1KMU.V AT SBWPOHT MOWS
CANNOT ACCOUNT FOH MISHAP
NEWPORT NEWS. VA.. May 11.?
The flying-boat H-7 weighed approxi
mately three tons, and harl a wing
spread of seventy-six and one-half
feet. The craft was -propelled by two!
160-horse-power engines, ami capable
of carrying a load of 3,000 pounds
Officials 'he Curtiss station here
biate that the Ilying-boat was not de
signed for rtodman Wanamaker. as,
nns been reported.
ro^thT," h,rre "na,>1? to ncc?unt
for the mishap to the propeller. which
was*oppose,I to he repaired before the
flight hack 10 this city was begun. The
propeller snapped off gIlrfl before when
t..e machine was rising from the water!
with twelve me,,. At that time one
of the blades struck the crest of H
wave.
Hie hie flying-bunt was considered
as safe as an ocean liner, according
to the aviators at the station here.
Consternation and surprise spread
over th* ranks of the airmen
when the Associated Press dispatch
telling' of the accident was read to
them. The big machine had within the
past two weeks broken more than a
dozen world's records. I
Captain Thomas S. Baldwin, in charge
of the station, immediately got jn touch
with Glenn H. Curtiss. at Buffalo. N. Y.
on the long-distance telephone, and re- j
celved instructions to proceed at once'
to the scene of (he mishap.
Pilot MeCaulev was considered one j
of the safest pilots at the station Ha i
is a Canadian by birth, and learned to !
fly in California. Had his machine '
been in condition to return here yester
day, he would have left to-day for New I
York, whence he would have sailed to
Russia to test out and deliver a num I
her of machines of a similar type to the
one that was wrecked to-day to the I
Kussian government.
Mechanician l'hilip ftter recently re
turned from Russia, where he had
charge of a large corps of flying boat3
har.es A. Good came here from hi*
home in Klyria, O. to atudv living
I-ouls Krantz was a mechanic at the
station here, having been sent to Wash '
ington to take the plaoo of Bert I
Acosta on the return trip.
Lieutenant Norman B. Hall, of the
Coast Guard Service, and John I
\iney president of ,he Newport News
Chamber of Commerce, who went to
J/jUr0" W'lh MacCaula>'' returned!
Mr. Dudley was the only one of the
injured men able to discuss the acci
dent.
"The machine was running along
smoo hly.' he said, "when suddenlv the
machine plunged down. 1 felt .,o shock
boat ''f 0,0 ????'*??""? The
at. ,.f the machine was near-bv and
I managed to reach it and cling to it
I?Ho? IcCauley was clinging to ?lc
? f tolVh? *'""?? 'W,,Cre ,s K,n"k'
f told him there were two others
.'"i 1 Wl,s 1,fte<? aboard the tug."
number of persons witnessed the
wi' u'" lhC ''Iversitle. a woman
who saw the machine fall stated that
she heard an explosion and saw some
thing fall from the machine. The cr ifj
force. H,rJkhig the water with great!
SUBMARINE BASES AT CANAL
"""'"I: "n" ",,k" J",n ?eco.?n.e,,J
1 to <?"greH? for Appro,
prlntion of $2.n."?5,;t00.
WAS-iungtox. May i l.-Socretarlea\
L aniels and Baker, and the Panama!
""lliorltlea have Joined In a
recommendation .0 Congress for an'
appropriation of |2.a55.30G for subma-'
rlno bases at the Panama Canal, to be J
immediately available.
"The Secretary of the Navy Hunks'
i most Important that these subma-j
riuo bases be established at the earll-'
est practical dato." Secretary Baker ad-1
vised the House.
BANKHEAD BEATS HOBSON
Itetiirim Make It Vlr.u..lly <>rl..In That :
All of 1'rrrrnt Delrgrii ion In
Itnioiuiiintrd.
MONTGOMKIIV. A f .A., May | 1.? ];,??. j
turns from forty-two counties received !
to-night made ii virtually certain that1
nil of Alabama's present delegation ml
1 ongress were renominated In vester- 1
days primaries, and that William (1 1
Bankyead had defeated former P.enreii
aeniative Hobson In the now Tenth!
I'lnr rlct by a small majority. a con-i
test is likely In this district.
ASQU1TH GOES TO DUBLIN
TO LOOK INTO SITUATION
Task Likely to Deninnrl Utmost
lOxerclso of His Fino Powers
as Conciliator.
OUTLOOK APPEARS SKRIOUS
Piinislimcnt of Rebels Causes Re
action of Sympatliy in Their Favor.
John Dillon in Bitter Denunciation
of Government.
LONDON, May 11.?The most danger
ou.? factor in the Irish situation which
had been recognized sincc the brief
rising was put flown was that tho
punishment of tho rebels would cau.se
a reaction of sympathy among tho
warm-hearted and emotional people.
This threatened danger appears to be
fast materializing.
.lohn Dillon, one of the most re
spected of the Nationalists, but often
one of the bitterest antagonists of
British rule, attacked the government
to-day in the House of Commons in :i
speech, which for bitter denunciation
has not been surpassed at Westminster
since ParneU's days.
Premier Asquith h?3 personally
stepped Into the broach, and is taking
the unprecedented course of journeying
to Dublin to Investigate tho situation
on the spot, and doubtless to give in
structions to General Sir John Max
well regarding the policy which tho
military government must pursue, now
that tlie chief civil administrators.
Lord WJmborne, Augustine Ulrrell and
Sir Matthew Nathan, have retired from
ofii.'o.
The Premier lefl hero to-night by
the Irish mail train on his way to
that city.
Mr. Asquith once before took tho
rein:; in his own hands at a crisis by
assuming the secretaryship of war,
when th<! threatened C'lster revolt in
1014 caused the resignation of Colonel
Seeley.
'IWSIv Ull.i, D1JMAM)
I'M 101 It UTMOST EXERCISE]
The I'rime Minister's A nest power a
have been displayed in playing the
part of a conciliator, and he now has
a task which is likely to demand their
utmost, exercise. lie announced that
lie way going to consult with the au
thorities in order to arrive at some
arrangement satisfactory to Irishmen
of all parties, and no statesmen ever
attempted a harder achievement. He
frankly declared that the present sit
uation could not continue. Many of
the newspapers, particularly the lib
eral organs, tall upon the Irish lead
ers to seize the present opportunity
for ettling their long-standing dif
ferences.
Lord Lansdownc announced In the
House of Lords that tho disarmament
of Ireland would continue, 'i'his means
the disarmament of 1'lsler, also, and
whether this can be done depends
upon Sir Kdvvard Carson more than any
other individual.
The House of Commons voted down
John Dillon's resolution demanding
that the government should Immedi
ately declare its intention. The Housa
of Lords adopted, without discussion,
Lord Loreburn's motion expressing
dissatisfaction with the government's
management of Ireland.
Premier Asquith urged the Irish to
maintain a sense of proportion and not!
let sympathy for fie misled insurgents
cause them to forget the deaths of
soldiers and civilians, ami promised
that in tiie future corn ts-martial on
nurder charges should he held in pub
lic.
Kilt ST EX ICC I TIO.Y
(IITMDIC OK IMIU.IV
The chief cause for the attack on '
the government in the House of Com
mons today v\as the revelation that
another execution bad occurred ?that
of a Kerinoy man named Kent ? which
was the first military execution out
side of Dublin.
It was charged by one of the mem
bers that many of the 1,700 persons
deported lo Kngland had no connec
tion with the uprising in Ireland.
The summary shooting of the Irish
editor, 1\ Sheehey Skefflnglon. has
aroused Increased protest as tho de
tails have become known,
J*
AFTER TWO WEEKS
OF NEGOTIATION
Matter Referred Back to
American and De Facto
Governments.
! TO BE SETTLED THROUGH
DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS
i Obregon Willing to Make Con
cessions, but Overruled
by Carranza.
FORMAL STATEMENT ISSUED
j Only Possible Clvnnce of Brrnk
Would Follow Attack Upon
l\ S. Soldiers.
j KIj PASO. TBX., May 11.?After si
| most two we^Vcs of discussion. tho ron
j forenc? between Generals Scott anfl
I Funston, and General Obregon, Mexican
i War Minister, over American troop dis
! position in Mexico, eanio to an end to
| night without any agreement being
j rcached.
The whole matter was referred back
jto the American and the rle facto gov
ernments, to be settjed through diplo
| matlc channels.
j To-night the situation is almost
where ir stood l.efore the conferences
; began. The Mexican conferee insisted
i upon a withdrawal of General Pcr
jshinK's column upon a certain date,
i and wanted that date to come quickly,
jit is known that General Obregon has
J been willing to make concessions In or
! der to reach an agreement with the
j American conferees. He has been over
ruled, however, by the tirat chief, Yen
usllano Carranza and his advisors.
After practically conceding the de
mands of the American conferees, he
was compelled to reverse his attitude.
The end of the negotiations camo to
day after two conferences had been
held. The llrst began at 10 o'clock in
the morning and lasted until 1 P. M*
when a recess was taken until 4
o'clock. Sharp on the hour, the dis
cussions were renewed. After two
hours and a half, however, they were
brought to an end.
General Obregon. along with Juan
Amador Mexican Subtsecretary of For
jclgn Affairs, emerged from the pri
vate car occupied by Generals Scott
and Funston, walked rapidly down the
j railway yards, climbed into his waiting
I automobile and drove away.
' General Obregon was accompanied to
his machine by General Funston. Tha
Mexican conferee's manner was abrupt
and vexed, but General Funston smiled
cheerily as he bade him good-hy.
POIIMA1., STATEMENT ISSUED
TO WAITING NEWSPAPER MEN
General Funston re-entered the car.
Colonel Robert E. Lee Michee, aid to
General Scott, distributed copies of tha
following statement to tho waltlngf
newspaper men:
"We wish to announce that aftetj
several conferences, marked through**
out by courtesy and good will, in
which conferences mutual impressions
were exchanged and information was
collected on tha military situation on
tho frontier, it was agreed by the
conferees to suspend the conferences
and report back to their governments
| in order that these may be able,
i through their respective foreign de?
' partments, to conclude this matter.
"That the ending of these confer
i ences does not mean, in any way, a rup
! lure of tho good relations of friend
ship between the conferees nor be
'tween the respective governments.
"A. OBREGON,
"H. L. SCOTT,
"FREDERICK FUNSTON*."
>0 IMMEDIATE THREAT
OK lilt EAIv llfcJTWEEX NATIONS
[ To-nigh* it was pointed out author!"
la lively that the various meetings In
, fc:i Paso does not mean that there is
'any immediate threat of a rupture ba
tweon the United States and Mexico.
So far as tho United States' is con
jcerned, it is said, the troops in Chi
huahua will remain practically Inac
| tlve. The only break that can possibly
I come would follow an attack upon
, United Stales troops by Cart anza's sol
diers.
It is regarded b> military men that
such an attack would causo hostilities,
j Army ofllclals here to-nisht were in
receipt of messages from Marathon,
slating that Mexican bandits had again
crossed into American territory and
fired on American soldiers and
i civilians.
According to another report, an au
tomobile conveying soldiers from
Major Uanghornc to Colonel Sibley, tn
the Big Bsn district has been made
the target for shots tired by Moxi
i ans.
Army othcers have refused to com
mcnt on these occurrences, except to
state that they wore likely to bo re
peated at intervals.
With the negotiations here ended
land tho situation reverting to Wash
I inuton and to the direct control of
. President Wilson and Secretary Lan
[slng, more has become known of the
' devolopmonta during the fortnightly
1 conferences Ju6t passed It became
[known, that representations mad? by
-
