NIGHT
EXTRA
Ml Jls jl - s ii
J. ii Ji, -tV OjLu.JL.JU
iJitittt
NIGHT
EXTRA
hju H.-NO, 207
:ct
iUSH VILLA
PITS, THEN
IIT,JLS.PLAN
Lr to Be Made ' Safe
P."l- ., T!i.
iflroni lurcner viait
$E. . W P aiders
-j WJ, -.-
iRAtfZA MUST YIELD
; 1
Troops Hunt New Out-S-Flrat
Chief Agents Off
h to Washington
iWflniNGTON, May 12. With
&V-Y . - ,-t. mnfornnirn
J51 1'flSO 1CHLC ' -
and General aeon tivu
t, Administration today cast
, M" i J
the Cnrranza .Government tnc
1 nf nnv further negotiations.
fl 'Cabinet threshed out the Bttu-
3 . lnirt i. no reuiy iu wui-
,'g request for withdrawal was
ti Until Ambassador Arrcddndo
tun the question. Even then
J.'SnsTvcr will be, as it has been,
lean forces will not qua mo vnm
inntll the border is safe from
jr'tlttr incursions.
Officials arc not too comment new
i?.- .n In. nrrnnecd through the
ma -' -
MCtlTc foreign offlces. ucncrai
iregon tow ueuurui otun. ii'j
theCOUIQ not pui iniu iniims n
anient that would place the Car
pus- Government in the nttilude of
HtKiulng .to tltc 8tav 0I ll,e -nicr-leu
expedition in Mexico.)
Oicials expressed hope the expedi-
iaV'can continue wunout actum
$wtat!on from any uncontrolled
J7T . . . .
Qrrn?ista Dana.
f"PASO, Tex., May 12. Ten
'Hfceafond Carranza troops today were
FmittWta mi" l uuiiuil. imnin uia
PHtLADELPniA, tfKIDAY, MAY 12, 1010.
CorlUMItT, 1010, BT IHB FCBLtfl LtDOEll COMFjlNT.
, PRICE ONE CENT
SINN FEIN VOLUNTEERS IN UNIFORM THEY WORE IN REVOLT
j9w - HBSjCTiMPimi rHHHBK IBS
iH S:, 'feCvmlfcSWts wOTiiBsiMMB!? &sHl9KHHMyiKM3H 1
Tfl I iiiiiiIiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiliiii I ; I ii.iimi iimii.M minnmimn? inimmmumi 1 1 uinniiiii iwi i in i i i i 8
TO AIR 'POLICE
IN POLITICS' IN
THE COURT
Rotan Lends Name of Com
monwealth to. Man
damus Plea
MANDAMUS ON MAYOR
.. ., . , . ,, . . ... C'opyrlBht, Inlernnttonnl Film Ssrvlco.
TiurVs ?,qua?.,f thc Pctu,rcstluo soldiers of the Irish republic as they appeared guarding the roof of
Liberty Hnll, which was the hcadquarterA of several leaders of the uprising. The building was afterward
wrecked by shell Are directed from land and naval batteries. In Liberty Hall were the offices of the
Transport Workers and of James Connolly's paper, the Irish Worker.
!;F:mtf"Of northern Mexico to prove,
Wm neeotiationB becin in Washing-
I tMtliat the de facto government is
r tV.contrl the situation. General
JJjtfyfHi directed the troop move-
;lwi$The men wilf , go into, the
HlBegion opposite the Big B,ond
Mr;of Texas and the i'arral
oiAi'of Chihuahua. . A
rV ' r..wl.' ' t'tf't. ' t
rjfimtary of War Baker has ordered
HPrai ocott to nurry iu YYusiiii)(;tui
tfiHl Paso, where the conference
ijGeneral Obr'egon was abandoned
rday. General Funston has been
Brtd to return to San Antonio,
,,,to Resume personal charge of his
rtand at his discretion.
fSncral Scott, Chief of Staff of the
wrican Army, and GencralObre
d, Mexican, Minister of War, yester-
- Abandoned their efforts to agree
m' '.future relations. Obregon is
'.to have insisted upon the early
qrawal of the United States
ps seeking Villa in Mexico, First
hief Carranza having insisted that
trepan take that position, though
tfjat Minister Was willing to re-
BUSINESS CLUB
TO CAST LOAN
VOTE AS UNIT
.
Taylor -sArgumeiit at Busi-
nessScience Luncheon
Wins Unanimous
Support'
UtjUJjZA FORCES 011REG0N.
INTO DEADLOCK WITH SCOTT
m EXSO, Tex., May 1?. The Mexican
Nation today was returned to the
ln .and. United States Governments
adjustment, following the allure of
& nesotlatlons between Ayar' Minister
uoSon and General Scott. General Car
jmiaaa veto of the tentative agreement
pa?hed at the start of the negotiations
!s4'hWsteadfaBt refusal to ncceda tn nnv
Bto'lfot providing an early date for wlth-
jraaj p the American expedition split
Hg.vwuerence,
iVTA1.? d'?'omllt8 are reported on the
rtr.rSl. .Bon' tuuy matructed by
tit klil?. negotlattons
j r., ... .W....UI 1CiiuuBi oi witnarawai,
WARNING FJIOM CATTELL
A poll of the membership of. the Bv(
nesH ncicuce jiud oi I'xiuuueipuiu, luitvu
by former Transit Director A. Merrltt
Taylor today at a lun9hcon of the club
at St. James'. Hotel, resulted 'In the un
animous pledge of the members to sup
port the $07,100,000 transit and port loan
it tho polls- next Tuesday.
' Tho ex-Transit Director took the poll
nt the conclusion of an address on the
transit loan In which he confidently pre
dicted the passage- of the bill next Tues
day by a magnificent majority. Ho de
clared that his abiding confidence In the
Intelligence and the determination of the
loyal citizenry of Philadelphia convinced
m that they would not permit their
city to be throttled by a coterie of Belflsh
obstructionists. '
CATTKLL SOUNDS WARNING.
City Statistician K. J. Cattell, who fol
lowed Mr. Taylor, prophesied that tho
defeat of thp loan would probably precipi
tate one of the worst panics the country
has over known, for the people, at large,
pot appreciating tne local conditions lri
Philadelphia, would take tho defeat of
tho loan as u signal that the business
men of Philadelphia thought its credit wi
not good.
Cyrus M. Anderson, who presided at
the meeting and Introduced the speakers,
said, that the people are facing a situa
tion In Philadelphia upon which future .de
velopment hinges. "We are, however,"
he asserted, "reasonably sure that the
outcome will be. our way," . '
Ex-Director Taylor, n the course of
his address, pointed a warning finger to
the dangers that a'ro threatening the
transit loan. He declared that he did
not know what was back of the menacing
move, and said he did not believe that
the voters themselves knew. The defeat
of the loan, he said, would wreck the en-
'DAVE' SCOTT, LEADER
IN 17TH WARD, DIES '
SUDDENLY AT HOME
County Commissioner and In
fluential Republican Went to
Bed Feeling Fine After
Political Meeting
END , COME;S ,-AT 4 A. M.
Continued on I'aco (Six, Column Two
i:-.'-ii2?!srSEss--.!. - " "
' E2!Sit
mmm
feijL"' ...
ASQUITH ARRIVES
IN DUBLIN; HALTS
COURTS-MARTIAL
Trial Immediately Ordered
. of Officer Who Shot
Skeffington
Application for Writ Will Be
Filed in the Common
Pleas
DILLON MAKES PROTEST
"DAYP" SCOTT DEAD
Coatlnutd 0" l'e Five, Column Ono
t&HE WEATHER .
KltSs-0RtVley .ar.e ""1 "I50"' Putting
WUd 8Utes Infnntrvmen nn nnJl 5
- wauvQ UIILI
m mounted uoldlers out f.
:h Villa. - ui'
.1'mT-iZ
as' a tnnH nn. .-...": !
WA few hundii.1 5i,ni5':,j,",'."r
.i. - . " . a iiiiauciiiiiiii iiwiinF.
KT i iWtean-
ksid. .Za . " " "' u, irucua on the
Efr and at a elvn inni i .." "
I3t bould i. ..... .
m&riZrZ'"0: ,mS ,S.'n-
FORECAST
? Phila,l,lnf,i j 'i.,...i..7
fr.,,f-i. JG" . '" ViHy- ,. Policeman Hl
ZhuZ, tl& I WuVd, tnd Joseph Dl
tVrth,,T.Wt --"' Hvajr "(aer State Pnarmeuucai a
;g-"i-fvf , iwr,n Wfia,
J tOST AJTD FOtND
BIGDOPE' HAUL MADE
IN TENDERLOIN RAID
Fifteen Bottles of Heroin Seized
in House ,by Qovernment
and Local Agents
SSSflgSSBSH? te!&.?,.'?
i-WISi"
tlu "t itrii'i3 V n.r uhwv
Um r,SUont lai ' o Korth"n
"'wafnii ,' lrDourg. All prons
m liSw.h('lS" !"Klu5';'a with
ft.. iki"7.u.1 .or(q America, aur rhuinm
ujwpai -f ---
niki .. jut .
itti i'lrJl?." "'!rt wi
Bril K . , " ne Vuw, Tl
id SJ K5, w M
n with twarla.
maday. May 0.
"H u(iy innn. Qermaotourn.
"i)nmiB4 Mt
bo J'jUe IT, la r.d )8
T
A- fiashllght search In the dingy base
ment of a house ln the Tenderloin at
dawn today revealed, in a bin of ashes.
15 bottles pf Heroin, wortn several mou
sand dollars, the .biggest heroin catch yot
made by Government authorities In their
canfcialgn td break up the "dop? ring" in
this city, .,.
' Karly th' morning iiajpn it. wyier.
special agent for the Government, started
on the. raid. And accompanied' by CplonM
WJI1 'G"ray Beach, of.the Govrpmnt
JllCKS. Of ne viio
Olovannl, of tho
Bnard. around the
tiAiiuAkt '712 Tluttonwood street, he bat
tered hte way Inside and Jfned up four
men and four woman, a'lj pale and haggard
and shivering In their nealigee.
Pulling out his flashlight Oyler descend-
I 4 to, the cellar. A rickety furnace and
a, coal Pi" were Dttre or ne 'iula gr pow
der poison,' Nothing remained In the en
tire house tha1 had not been '9crv'nllea
by the Opvernmnt agents. Oyler hur
rawed In the ash heap and emerged look
ing llke'a dusty wraith, J"Jt with several,
bottlea-fn his hand.
French Tax Receipts' Increasing
PAniS. May 12c The Government tax
rnralntji "for Anrlt show a gain of 10 1er
cent m cppipared with th cgrespondlng
month laat year." and a deficit ot IS per
cent compared with the normal figure.
I
David S. Scott County Commissioner
and Itepubllcan ltaier of the 17th Wnrd,
died this morning ,t his homo, 1112 North
Iawrence street, a few hours after ho had
attended and addressed n political meet
ing at the nth Ward Itepubllcan Club.
He had not Complained of , Illness, and tho
shock of his .unexpected death was keenly
reit, not oniy oy nis immediate family,
but by tho thousands of friends In the
neighborhood of his homo and about City
Hall, who had seen him apparently In
good health only a short time before,
Mrs. Scott Is prostrated. She alone was
wjtli her; husband in his last hours. He
reiurnca nome aooui ii o'clock ana re
tired, after remarking what a good time
he had had' at the' meeting.'
Shortly after -1 o'clock this, morning
Mrs. Kcott was awakened by her hus
band's deep bfeathlns. She aroused him
and h complained qf n pain in the region
pf his left shoulder. While he ,was speak
ing he lapsed Into unconsciousness. Mrs.
Beoft telephoned to Dr. P, P. Moylan, 6th
Btreet bejow Glrard avenue, the family
physician, He. responded Immediately, but
pronounced, the commlsioner dead. Heart
disease, probably ltr tho forin" of angina
pectoris, had caused death. In Doctor Mby.
,lan's opinion.
Commissioner Scott was G'J years old.
He was twice married and Is survived
by Ave children. His first wife, who
died, several years ago; was their mother.
They are Edward iQ Wilbur S. and Vic
tor T. Scott, Mrs. Richard Fisher and Mrs.
Harry Breyer. Charles, and Walter Scott,
brothers, also survive.
His broad sDlrit of irood .fellowshln. his
Chief, characteristic, drew Mr. Scott Into
membership with numerous fraternal so
cieties and clubs. These will be represent
ed at nis funeral, the details of which are
now being arranged. He was especially
active in the Ited Men and Elks,
The real mourning for "Dave" Scott ex
tends far beyond his kindred and Inti
mates. It began before daylight When the
news of his sudden death spread through
out the "nth," whe.re the living burden
of many) a. humble household had been
lightened1 by his Instrumentality, for every
man. woman and child In that bailiwick
knew him not only as political leader, but
aa counselor, friend and helper In need.
Nearly a score of years as police magla-
DUBLIN, May 1?.
Premier Asqulth arrived hero this morn
ing to Investigate for1 himself" conditions
In Ireland following the recent revolt.
As a lesult of his visit It is expected that
martial law will soon bo ended and civil
administration restored.
Tho Premier drove throuch savrni
streets lined by wrecked buildings and
nlso viewed the damago done to the vice
regal lodge.
.Suspension of military trials has al
ready been ordered, pending conferences
which are to take place.
The Premier met Gen. John Maxwell
and Bevcral military officers. Later In
tho day he Is to confer with civil authori
ties at Dublin.
It was announced shortly after the
Premier arrived that a court-martial had
been ordered to try the officer held re
sponsible for the execution of Sheehy
Skefllngton, the Irish editor, which has
aroused deep resentment throughout Ire
land. Several thousand messages protesting
against furtner executions of rebel leaders
have been received by tlfe Prime Minister
from various parts of Ireland. Tho letters
came from both Ulster and National
Counties. Many of the writers urged tho
Government not to scatter tho sparks of
a new revolt by harsh repressive measures
arousing the sympathy of the whole Irish
people.
The Prime Minister, though agreeing
with Government critics that tho shooting
of Sketllpgton was apparently an atrocious
act, thoroughly approves the 'execution of
the 14 Separatist leaders,
Political writers differed today as to
whether Premier Asaulth will attempt to
establish some sort of home rule for
Continued on 1'in Tno, Column Two
District Attorney Rotnn consented to
tho Use of tho name of tho Commonwealth
this afternoon, In the application for a
wrl' bf nltcrnnUvo mandamus which will
be filed In Common Picas Court to forco
tho Mayor to keep tho pollco out of poll
tics. It Is necessary to uso tho name of
the Commonwealth In nil mandamus pro
ceedings. Thc hearing called by tho District At
torney In order that he could decide
whether to permit the use of the Com
monwealth's name lasted only five min
utes. Daniel J. Shorn, who, by a curious
coincidence, represented tho Mayor, Di
rector Wilson nnd tho oollco lieutenants
accused of violating tho law which ho
frnmed, welcomed the opportunity to air
the case In tho courts.
Mayor Smith wan not present at the
hearing. At Us conclusion Mr. Shcrn said
tho Mayor would accept tho writ and fllo
answer Immediately. Tho writ asks that
tho Mayor bo Instructed to dismiss any
City ompioye who Is found guilty of ob
noxious nnd pernicious political activity.
Tho men accused of vlolnting tho law
nro Lieutenant Frank Muster, of tho
Frankford pollco station, and Lieutenant
Kctcrmeyer, of tho 2d and Christian
streets station.
Attorney Henry J. Scott nnd W. H.
Lucas, of tho 23d Ward, represented the
three persons who signed tho application
for tho writ. Mr. Scott made tho applica
tion to Mr. Itotan. In order to cxpedlto
matters no ono was allowed at the hear
ing but counsel for each sldo nnd tho
newspaper men. When tho proceedings
Btarted at 12 o'clock, Mr. Scott nnd Mr.
Shcrn argued as to the procedure. Mr.
Itotan Interrupted Immediately and re
minded them that there was a proper
place to argue tho case. '
"Yes, that's tho court," said Mr. Scott.
After announcing that ho would lend tho
name of tho Commonwealth to tho applica
tion the District Attorney then signed it.
SHERN CHANGES FACTIONALISM.
Mr. Shern charged that mandamus was
sought, for political purposes, but Mr.
Scott asserted that ho was only trying to
nrotcct tho rights of citizens and declared
What faotlonal politics had nothing -to--do-
with' the p-dcccrilngs.
After announcing whom ho represented,
Mr. Sherh saldr
"On behalf of Director Wilson and
Mayor Smltlr"I want to say that they wel
crme these proceedings and want them
aired In court. But this Is threo days be
fore tho primary election and these pro
ceedings wore started only for political
effect.
"We cannot file an answer Jo tho
charges before five dnys. Then they
would be tried In Common Pleas Court,
which' would bo after election. We nro
willing .and ready to go ahead, however.
In reply, Mr. Scott said:
'Wills has nothing to do with factional
politics. It Is directed against the arbi
trary and pernicious activity of certain
lieutenants of police. It would "not re
quire Ave days to prepare an answer. Tho
answer could be prepared at once, and
we are willing to meet you In court next
Monday. o
SOUGHT THREE WEEKS AGO.
"Application for an Investigation was
made to the Mayor three weeks ago, and
these very affidavits were presented to
him. He has Ignored them and therefore
we were obliged to ask the court to Inves
tigate. We are not Going Into court as n
move In a factional fight, but to protect
the rights of citizens."
Mr. Shern then Insisted that, under the
act of 1U00, which bears his name, com
plaints of pollttcnl activity by pollco must
be made to the Director of Public Safety
and that any notion against police officials
must be taken by the Police Hoard of Inquiry,
Mr. Scott Interrupted him with the re
minder that the complaints had been sent
to tho Mayor us the highest official of the
QUICK NEWS
BRITAIN SPURNS PEACE1 TALK BY WAY OF U.S.
LONDON, May 12. l'cncc overtures by Germnny, ns outlined
from American sources, cannot be accepted as a basis for British
negotiations. This statement was made today by lord Robert Cecil,
Under Secretary far Foreign Affairs. Lord Cecil declared that tho
Gritnon notice rumors proved the acute financial, economic and social
distress now prevailing in Germany.
PIMLICO RACING RESULTS
I'irst race, purse, 2-yenr-olds, 5 furlongs Cranlt, 108, Troxler,
$12.10, $5 and $3.80, won; Ophelia, 108, Tapliu, $3.80 and 2.00,
(second; Rlveidale, 108, KelsayJ,$3.80, third. Time, 1:08 3-5.
CHIEF AND 20 FIREMEN C-VERCOME AT BLAZE
Twenty-one firemen, Including Acting Battalion Chief Foote,
were overcome by smolto from burning jute during a fire In a. storage
warehouse of the John T. Bailey & Co. roe and twine establishment nt
Water and Morris Ntreets this afternoon. Those taken to Mt. Sinai
Hosltnl are Anhony Shaffer, 1835 South 3d street. Engine Company
40; Thomnn Duane, 221T,.'South Carlisle street, Truck 11; Kobert Itodo
baugh, 137 Morris street, Engine Company 10; John Pcdri.ck, Engine
Company 3, nnd Joseph Smith, Truck 11. Others were treated on tho
spot.
SENATE APPROVES DENATURED ALCOHOL TAX REMOVAL
, WASHINGTON, May 12. Thc Senate today passed without ob
jection Senator Lodge's bill amending the tariff act to permit with- ,,
drawnl of alcohol from bond, free of taxes, for denaturation only.
32 GERMANS REPORTED SHOT FOR DECRYING WAR .
GENEVA, May 12. SwiriNSoclnllsts report they have received Information
that thrco German officers, nnd 32 soldiers, all Soclallats, have been shot for 'dis
tributing In tho trenches a pamphlet concerning tho second Socialist peace
conferonco at Zimmerwald, near Berne. At this conference protests wore mado
by Socialists 'of many countries against methods of warfare which the delegate
said had been adopted by tho Germans. v
TROOPS LEAVING PITTSBURGH STRIKE ZONE
PITTSBURGH, May , 12. With peace rchjnlng in tho Turtle - Creolc'-nnd
Monongahela strike zoned, the I8th Infantry regiment' began entraining nt East
Pittsburgh at 9 o'clock this morning. Eleven thousand men entered the Pitts
burgh plants of tho AVestlnghouso Company last night. It was officially an
nounced that nearly tho full nliiht forco now has returned.
PENNA. R. R. ORDERS 75 FREIGHT ENGINES
Tho Pennsylvania Railroad has ordered 75 freight locomotives from tho
Baldwin Locomotive Works, typo L-ls, for use on the lines eas't. Tho cost will
bo about $3,000,000. They are to bo delivered In the last quarter of this year.
TWO KILLED, FIVE HURT IN TRAIN WRECK
RALEIGH, N. C., May 12. Two persona wore killed nnd five Injured when
tho FluminKO Special on tho Seaboard Air Line was wrecked early today.
GERMANS PREPARE FOR ATTACK UPON RIGA
COPENHAGEN May 12. Tho German naval nnd military forces are pra
parlng for a combined land and sea attack ugatnst tho Russian port of Riga,
according to a roport current here today. , '
BOY-ED DECORATED BY KAISER
COPENHAGEN, May IS. Captain Boy-Ed, formerly connected with ths
German Embassy at Washington and whoso recall was demanded by the United
States, has received the Order' of tho Red Eagle, third class, with swords, accord
ing to a dispatch from Berlin.
Continued nn rnie Two, Column (Sum
CHICAGO JUDGE FACES
TASK OF SOLOMON
Two Women Claim Baby Whose
Right)' of Inheritance
Is Disputed
Contloutd on l'ttto Two, Column Ope
CHICAGO, May' 12. Tho task of Solo
mon faced a jury today in the trial of
Mrs. Anna Dollle Ledgerwood Matters,
charged with foisting a snurlous posthu
mous, heir on the estate of her husband,
Frederick Mattea, Areola, III., moving
picture magnate, who' left $200,000 when
he died. . .
In the courtroom were three figures In
the tangle,
One baby, a pretty coojng. girl, who
Wiggled fat ' thumbs at the jurors.
Jessie Bryan glrf of ,'the fcan'adlan
woodsH who. claims the baby a hers a
war baby, whose father- dlfert In the
Flanders trenches. -
Mrs. Matters, who swears the baby Is
her own.
The Jury muse decide to whom tho baby
belongs, for the Canadian girl, whose right
name la Kept secret by the prosecution,
declared today she Would insist on the
baby's return, to. her.
"It was taken fron me while I lay
under ether In an Ottawa hospital," she
told theVSlite's attorney- "I want it
back."
"Jessie Bryan" planned to take the
stand against Mrs. Matters late today to
reveal her romapce with a young shoe
maker in o. Canadian village, the dis
covery of her condition, ,her lover's en
listment n the Canadian troops, hla death
In Flanders and, finally, the deception h.
say was practiced on her In the hospital
at Ottawa. . . ,
ADRIATIC IN PORT;
EVADED SUBMARINES
Liner Keeps Away From U-
Boat Waters and Arrives
a Day Late
ASSAILANT OF SUSSEX PROMOTED, PARIS HEARS
PARIS, Muy 12. Obcr Lieutenant Otto Stelnhrlck, commander -p the. Ger
man submarine U-S, which torpedoed tho channol steamship Sussex, has been
promoted, says tho Echo de Pans. Tho promotion has been approved by Ad
miral von Capello. of the German Admiralty, despite tho fact that Germany had
announced In Its note to the United States that the commander would ba
punished.
NEW VORIC. May 12. Having lost a
day through her efforts to avoid subma.
rlnes the White Star liner Adriatic ar
rived today from Liverpool with 127
passengers. The vessel shaped her course
away from the waters where U-boats have
been reported as active. No signs of the
dreaded craft were seen.
Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain, widow of the
British statesman and daughter of William
C, Endlcott, who was Secretary oik War
In President Cleveland's first adrnffstra
tlon, was a passenger. This Is her first
visit to the United States In 18 years. Mrs.
Chamberlain had little comment to make
concerning the war,
"The struggle Is terrible." she said, "but
It must go on to the -end, and there can
be only one end to It In all the allied
countries."
AJJTOISTS LEAVE FOR HACKS
300 Association Members Go to New
York to Attend Event Tomorrow -
Three hundred members of the Phila
delphia Speedway Association, headed by
Charles L. Hower, secretary and treas
urer, left today for New York, where they
will attend the automobile races tomor
row. About 25 members, had dinner at
noon today at the Belleyue-Stratford.
New York's speedway, made of wood.
Is similar ty that of Philadelphia's, now
under construction, and the local motor
Lets will thereby be enabled to get an
Idea of liow their own course at Willow
Grove Park will seem when completed,
RASPUTIN, ADVISER OF CZAR, REPORTED SLAIN
BERLIN (via Amsterdam), May 12. Rasputin, the Siberian monk, for years
looked upon In wide circles In Europe as the "power behind the Russian throne,"
Is reported to have been assassinated. Tho news reached here from Potrograd
by way of Bucharest. Rasputin, tho "monk of. mystery," who succeeded the
monk of Eilosorus. now In exile in Sweden, as tho molit trusted adviser of Czar
Nicholas, was credited with having mado most of the Russian statesmen and
'diplomats now In power and to have broken as many others. At the time .of
the sudden transfer of Grand Duke Nicholas from Russia to the Caucasus it
was Rasputin's Influence that was chiefly credited.
WILL SUPPORT WILSON, SAYS BRYAN IN IOWA
DES .MOINES. May 12. William .1. Bryan will heartily support President
Wilson for re-election, he tld I. T. Jones, a Des Molnos attorney, who spent
yesterday touring Iowa with him for .the equal suffrage amendment. "Bryan
did not qualify his statement on any issue of peace or war," Mr. Jones said last
night. "Ho declared unequivocally that he would support the President and
did not Intend to align himself with any peace-at-any-prico party which would
oppose Wilson."
BIBLE STUDENTS URGED TO AID LOCAL OPTION
The Anti-Saloon l.euguo of Pennsylvania has sent letters to 6100 ministers
of all denominations urslng them to pnllst the services of the 250.SOO members'
of men's Bible classes In the Interest of local option candidates at the, primaries
next Tuesday. Tho letter warns .thu churchmen against tho candidacy. t)t State
Senator Snyder for Auditor General and against Harmon M. Kephart for State
Treasurer, The letter charges that these men have tije bajiklnE: of. tho liquor;
interests, '
GOETHALS SAYS HE WILL RETIRE JUNE 1 '
PANAMA. May 12. Hajor General George W. Goethabj has announced that
he will resign June 1 as Governor General of the Canal Zone. H Is reported here
that ire will not resign If there is trouble with Germany. Major General Goethabi
I prlvilefjedunder an act of Congress providing for the nermanwt government
of tho Isthmian strip, to retire at Ids pleasure. This Is not the fuut time that ha,
has announced his lntsntlm to make use of this privilege but lie changed his
mind In previous Instanced.
o.n of nzm,"t Best of the Tarzan Stpriep -by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Begins in Tomorrow's Evening Ledger,
K
n
i-a
t j
Ml.
i
. m
'M
,
;H
': JJ
f
T
(
t
i
At
f
J-..
X
