set' Wkmww
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
May 10, 29.
120NA Gmeraly
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 18, NO. 299.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, MAY 12, 1916.
VNOZIUV 'XINJOHd:
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
i0
DISH;
II IRELAND i
THREATENS !
CRISIS i
Aftermath of Revolt, Filled!
. -l r- n r t . ;
Willi UC1L1CS Ul IUUia,$
Stormy Session in House of I
i i. J i
Stormy Sesi
Parliament
TALES TOLD OF (
WANTON EXECUTIONS
Asquith Goes To Conciliate
Both Irish Parties
Such
Conditions Canno
Declares Premier.
Conditions Cannot Go On,,
(By Review Leased Wire)
LONDON, May 11. The most dan-
otirAnii far-tif. In TrMlaniVo RirilAtinn.
which had been recognized since the j
brief rising flashed in the pan, was
that the punishment of the rebels !
v.-ould cause a reaction of sympathy
.1
smong the warm hearted and emo- j
tional people. This threatened dan-1
per appears to be fast materializing. I
John Dillon, one of the most respect j
ed of the Nationalists, but often one
of the bitterest antagonists or the
British rule, attacked the government
today in the House of Comn-ons, in a
speech, which for bitter denunciation,
has not been surpassed at Westmins
ter since Parnell's days.
Premier Asquith has personally
Ftepped into the breach and is taking
the unprecedented course of journey
ing to Dublin to investigate the situa
tion, on the spot and doubtless to give
instructions to Sir John Maxwell, now
that the civil administrators. Lord
Wiiubouroe. Augustin Birrell and Sii
Matthew- Nathan have retired from
office. The premier left here tonight
by the Irish Mail train on his return!
to that city. I
Mr. Asquith once before took the
reins in his own hands at a crisis by
pvsun-.ing the secretaryship of war
when' the threatened t'lster revolt In
1914 caused the resignation of Colonel
Seeley.
To Suit Beth Parties
The prir;e minister's finest powers
have been displayed In playing the
psrt of a councillor and he now has
a task which is likely to demand the
I'.tmost exercise. He announced that
hr was going to usp the authority in
order to arrive at some arrangement
satisfactory to Irishmen of all parties
ond no statesmen ever attacked a
harder achievement. . He frankly de- j
dared that the present situation could j
not continue. I
Many of the newspapers, principal-j
ly the Liberal organs, call upon the j .
Irish faction to seize the present op-! 'y?Z "?d -) ' ,
portunity for settling their long stand ! OYSTER BAY N. V. May .11-In
ip.g c'ifferences ia Jter to Guy Enerson, national sec
Disarmament Talked I retary of the Roosevelt non-partisan
The Marquis of Lansdowne intimat-1 ,eaue- iven out !lere
d to. the House of Lords that the dis- j Theodore Roosevelt endorsed the
prmpment cf all Ireland will be under work of lnat organization and referr
tafcen. This would mean the disarma-j his "nditlacy which Is one of
ment of the Ulster and Nationalist ' h objects of the league. The letter
voh-pleers and whether that can be!8 written in response to a request
done depends upon Sir Edward Car-! ,or 8 statement with regard to the
ron and John Iledmondm ore than on i"ork of the league,
nny other individual. The House of! "As ynu know," Mr. Roosevelt said
Commons negatived without division!1" let,er- have refused to en
Mr. Dillon's motion demanding thatidrs the use of my name in the pri
the government should immediately- marles or In any way to enter any
declare its intention. The House of factional contest which has for its ob
I.ords adopted without division Lord ,pct n,v nomination in Chicago In
I ourabeau's motion, expressing dis- June. You also know that I have em
atisfaction with the government's , atically stated that it would be tin
management of Ireland. i wise to nominate me unless with the
'. I full understanding that such nomina
1 1
MEXICO EMBARGO
EXPORT OF SCRAPIRON
SAN DIECO, May 11. The Mexican
ft- icto government has placeil an
embargo on the exportation of scrap
iron, pecordinrr to word received here
todny froi" Cartain Ed Johnson, of
the Ftea-nship Klamath. As a result
of the embargo, the Klamath was fore 'me onlv as representing those prlnci
ed to lopve Guaymas with half a car- pies. This is emphatically the proper
go of scran iron while the steam t attitude to take, and because this is
Kr-finnner Ran Pedro is returning with : vmif niiltiiflA nni hprsiuit vnn nm
errpty holds. i
The two steamers under an agree-jv approve your work. Th esafety of
ment between their owners, and tha'this country depends upon our imme
Southern Pacific Company of Mexico, j diate, serious and vigorous effort to
were to have brought to California ' square our word with our deeds and
ports full cargoes of scrap iron, th to secure our own national rehobilita
aocumulation of years from Guaymas ' tion. The slumbering patriotism of
terminal of the Southern Pacific Mexi jour people must be awakened and
can line. It is understood the rail-1 translated into concrete and efficient
way company has protested to the 'action The awakening must be to a
State Department at Washington. ense of national nd international du
SEVERE EARTMSMUtH IS .
FELT AT SAN JOSE j
SAN JOSE, Calif., May 11, Two
distinct earthshocks were registered I
today at the Urviermty of Santa Cla
ra's seismograph. The first began at ,
1:41 p. m. and lasted for about 20 min
utes; the second began at 11:50 p. m. j ";
and was more pronounced, lasting for
an hour and forty minutes. The cen
ter of this afternoon's shock was esti
mated to he distant
northwest direction.
1,00 miles in a
PROTESTS TO ENGLAND
WASHINGTON. May 11.
American government is pre
paring to protest to Great Brit
ein against policy of refusing
to allow the shipment .of hos
pital supplies by the American
Red Cross to Germany and her
allies. Secretary Lansing re
ceived a letter today from for.
mer president Taft, chairman
of the executive committee of
the Ited Cross urging such ac
tion, and it will be taken up
with the British government in
the near future.
The Red Cross considers the
attitude of the British govern
ment in violation of the Geneva
convention to which the United
States and all of the present
belligerents are signatories, and
holds that the American gov
ernment has the right to insist
upon observance of the treaty.
Mr. Taft expressed . the hope
i
!
that the Central Powers had
failed to agree to a reciprocal
course in the treatment of
articles for the sick and the
i "ed.
U
p a aa Try 10
OUUU I LAHu
GUARDS ARRIVE
AT SAN ANTONIO
War Department Suspends the
'Manchu" Law, So Detach
ed Officers May Pursue Staff
Work or Other Duties. '
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO. May 11. Mobiliza
tion of the Texas national guard at
Fort Sam Houston for service in the
lTnited States army virtually
completed tonight upon the arrival of
all but two companies of the militia.
The complement of the Texas
guard ordered to report at Fort Hous
ton it thirty seven companies of in
fantry, two troops of cavalry and two
batteries of light artillery, in all
about five thousand men. No regulars
arrived today but sis coast artillery
companies for service were enroute
tonight and the other four are ex
pected to reach here by Saturday or
Sunday. The first to reach here will
he sent to Marathon and thence onjl'J have reiterated the arguments ofi
to the border near Boauillas.
Headquarters announced today the
suspension of the "Manchu" law. This
law requires that all officers must
serve two years out of every six with
their commands, which means that
after four years of detached service
they must return. Suspension of this
law will permit officers now serving
in staffs and other detached duty to!
continue In this service until the law
is reinstated.
TEDDY APPROVES
ROOSEVELT LEAGUE
tion means the hearty endorsement
I of the principles for which I stand
the principles set forth in the Chica
go sneech (delivered April 29) to
which you refer."
Farther on in his letter, Mr. Roose
velt said:
"Your league emphasizes its devo
tion to these nrinciples and supports
working in this spirit, I very earnest- j
ty and responsibility.
KOCH WINS AT TRAPS
MEMPHIS. Tenn.. May 11. Fred
K..h phminhiir- Ohio, won the
j trap-shooting championship of the
South here today by the breaking of
'9 of a possible 0 tagets in a shoot
'off with R. E. Duvall. of Belleville.
I Illinois, who had tied the Ohio gunner
with score of 95 breaks in the regu-
lar 100 tsget event,
in the shootoff.
Duval broke 35
: i jmnmn i&i
i rum: k
! HONDO
I CONFER ON
: MEXICO
i
!
Shifting of Conference to Di-
plomats Already deems to i
Have Taken Place. Carran
za Minister Pleads.
WASHINGTON AWAITS
REPORT FROM SCOTT
All Overtures Toward Remov-,
ing Troops Is Expected to ;
: Get Blunt Refusal, as Wil-1
son Often Has Asserted. !
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. May 11. While no;
official report from General Scott had
arrived tonight that his . conference,
with General Obrejn. the Carranza 'j
war minister, had failed to bring about
any agreement as to the border sit;;a--tion,
it was clear that administration,
officials after reading the news dis-i
patches-did ' not regard the failure asj
producing a critical situation in the j
relations between the L'nited States;
and Mexican de facto fc'jvernment. ;
General Scott was expected to pre-'
pare a full report for President Wil-1
vasjson which should reach Washington ,
in .lime tor coiisiuerttiiun bi mr i-au-
inet meeting tomorrow.
Both state department officials an 1
Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate,
have been prepor
ed to resume the task of discussing
the Dorder situation at me l'-m . civilians and :jldiers. The raid was
where the diplomatic questions were!four miies nortn of Boquillas at an
suspended when the military confer-:ore terminal station and directly be
ence was arranged. The ambassador . hjn, Col Langhome's column, which,
called at the state department today up t0 that timei had not crossed infj
iu mm uver eufrm miuuuuii, w uu
Secretary "Lansing.. He is understood '
(General Carranza in urging early
withdrawal of the American troops '
from Mexico. i il-an D3ndlts yesterday evening fired
Mr. Arredondo previously ha said on a military automobile conveying a
that the failure of General Scott and ', message from Major Langhome ft)
Obregon to reach an understanding in ; Colonel Sibley at a point eighteen
iAj way affected the diplomatic situa- ., . ,
tion. He has sought to continue the;"""" Korth of Boquillas. on the Mer
discussion while that conference was athon-Boquillas I'jad.
in progress but Secretary Lansing de-
clined to take up the - matters sug-1
12 until the El Paso conferees had;1"'"'" l" "
ended their deliberat.'Jiis. .AdminisUa-i following in another machine several
tion officials have not been fully ad-! miles back and wh'j arrived late to
vised as to the discussions in El Paso!njnt from Boquillas
and unquestionably will need complete; Lanehorne's -ar had left
reports from Generals Scott and! Major Lan1,orne s ar nau le"
Funston in rder to know how toiEoquillas at four thirty in the after
deal with the suggestion that a de-ln dispatches for Colonel Sib
finite date be set for withdrawal. . Ie- en ro",e I'Jin Marathon to Bo-
Wilson Stands Pat.
So far President Wilson has shown;
no indication of altering his original
policy in. regard tj troop movements.
They were ordered to capture of dis
perse the bandits who have harrassed .
Aiiirncau towns aionS lue ooruer. i ne
fact that unofficial reports came to-.
night of a new raid is 'jnsi.lered 1
proof positive that General Pershing's
task has not been completed and
there is every reason to believe his
force will ' remain in Mexico until
Villa is either captured by American
troops 'or by Carranzistas.
When the military conference was
arranged the state department had
taken no steps toward preparing au 1
answer lo carranza note Miesting Sprinss territ.jry. Ier in the after
the withdrawal of American troops. nMn Major uinhorne re1eased aIi
It will be a month ton.Vrrow since that but four who are bt.inR neld pennins
came. Officials seemed inclined further investigation,
to make any haste in taking un the! JeHHe Veemer, ,he American store
question, although it was officially Vee ktdnepped bv the Glenn
stated that the Washington govern- j
meni was wining io uiscui-s xne mai
ter as the notes suggested. '
Mr. Arreuono'j lias not suceeenea
in engaing Secretary Lansing in anylsituaW twenty-five miles south of
formal discussio nof the matter. It , Boquillas. who arrived here today,
seemed likely tonight that these j This information Cowan heerd from
diplomatic conversations agein sng-ia Mexican who had talked to a captain
gested In the formal statement ..f the ,)f on(? of (np ramer bands. Cowan
El Paso conferees would not begin : na8 apkert military protection for his
for several days. A study of General i piam. which he believes In danger.
Scott s reports undoubtedly will pro-,
cee thPm;
More Troops Maybe ,
I nthe meantime the steps tnVen to .The buzzer wire to Boouillas. 85 miles
give greater protection to the border 80Uth of the Rio Grande, which the
towns will be carried out and is necs- signal (irps started laying yester
sarv additional guardsmen and ro-n:,y. had been strung a distance or
visional regiments of 'ast anlle-v 33 ,njPS tonight,
will he ordered to the lin". !
Carranza at Fault.
The stumbling block at El P:iso ar-1
nears to have been th determ''ia
tion of General Carranza to hav un
earlv date set nnon which .Ame-t.-nn
trcjps would be withdrawn from M"v
fro In everv cOTm"ni'-i".ion or n"h
lished utterance of the Prst chief he
ns nweu on in pe-essitv ly i'"""of i,js arn,y in suppressing Zapata
tne trnon ott vevtoa" sou it i.n-i fnTcrK jn Morelos was progressing sat--irtunate
pcidnt rh as that at j jsf.ictorilv and that hardlv more than
Parral are tn he avo'.Hed. j month mould be required to corn-
Raid Muot 8tor. 1 piPt, paBjfi-ation of the tsate.
The only renlv to General Ohregrm'sj Other advices to the embassy an
arguments that General STtt hs nounced that receipts of the National
been autiiorired to mW. fi rr Railwavs of Mexico for the past month
known, thst the troon would be: were $19,000,000 and wuld be larger
(Continued on Page '1) this month.
DRIERS AR
ROUTED 1
ATTACK ON
CAVALRY
Bandits Again Cross Line In
Dig ceno vouniry dui Are
Driven Back After Short
Skirmish with Troopers.
DETAILS OF CLASH
ENTIRELY LACKING
!
American Troops Cross Into j
Mexico and Capture Num-
ber of Suspects Believed Im
plicated in Recent Raid.
(By Review Leased Wire.i
BROWNSVILLE. May 11.
Curtis Bayles. an American far
mrr was shot and killed late to
night a short distance from his
horn ne?r, Mercedes. Texas, by a
bard cf four or five Mexicans who
succeeded in escaping, presum
ibly to the Mexican aide of the
Rio Grande.
Whether the fvVxicans cam
from the cuth side of the river
has not been determined. Thirty
United States cavalry with a pos
se of citizens from Mercedes
stnrterf immediately in pursuit,
but at midnight had found no
trace of the band.
MARATHON. Tex., May 11 Mex
ican bandits again crossed into Ameri
can territory last night and attacked
bandits tied.
MARATHON Tev Vav 11 Mev-
Five shots were fired at the driver.
j Howard, who escaped unhurt, ac-
' qutllas, and was proceeding tnrougn
rough country wheu several shots
l whistled close to Driver Howard. At
that point there is a slight bend in
the road and Howard, fearing that
n.'jre bandits were ready, to pick him
ofr turned h,8 (ar ,nd' startwl back
rtonllIlla, Ma,r i cnEhorne. when
. , ,i,nI.a
to the scene who scoured the country
in every way without seeing a clue
i'j the bandits.
A detachments of fifty men belong
ing to Major Longhorne's command
crossed over into Mexico opposite
Boquillas. yesterday afternoon and ar
rested a few Mexicans whom they be
lieved knew something of the recent
raids
in the Iloquillas and Glenn
Sprngs and Doquillas bandits, is be-
ling held for ransom, according fJ
I John C. Cowan, manager of the
Canrielnrin Wax Factorv at R'oberts.
A fiel(J hosoital in charge of Cantain
William M. Smart, of the armv Medi-
,.ai Coins, has been established here.
I
' ZAPATISTAS RAPIDLY
, BEING EXTERMINATED.
WASHINGTON. May 1. Dispatch
es to the Mexican embassy from Mex
ico City tonight said General Pablo
Gonzales had reported that the work
9
FIFTY FEARED DROWNED.
SAN LUIS OBISPO. Calif..
May 11. The three men found
in the life boat which came a
shore at San Liu Obispo yes
terday are the sole survivors of
the steamer Roanoke, which
(foundered Tuesday afternoon,
was strongly indicated today
when vessels that have been
searching for tie missing life
boats reported their efforts us
fruitless A report that a life
boat with one ninn alive on
board hud been picked up by
the steamer Edgar II. Vance,
was not confirmed.
Between forty-six and fifty
lives are believed to have been
lost.
The three survivors, in a
hospital here, said today the
(Tew remonstrated with the
captain when the vessal was
loading n San Francisco tbnt
too much cargo was being put
aboard and fiat it was being
improperly stowed.
i
I
i
I
;
.
'
:
'
i
!
i
;
IS
Threatened Uprising of Mexi-
cans is Dealt Blow by Arrest
of Sereal Agitators by U. '
S. Officials.
(Bv Rpview Leased Wire.i
CORPl'S CHR1STI. Tex.. May 11. .
Two more arrests were made today in j
the investigation of an alleged pi'Jtl
for a Mexican uprising in south Texas,'
simultaneously with similar disturb-'
ances in Arizona and New Mexico.
State officers tonight expressed the '
jpinion that a decisive blow had been
dealt the plans for the outoreak.
Eulalio Velasquez, editor of a Mex--ican
paper at Kingsville, and Victor-'
iano Fonce, a merchant, were taken i
into custody by officers of the depart-,
ment jf justice. Colonel Morin, said
to be a former Villa officer, who was
arrested last night, is in jail at Kings
ville. The federal officers who arrest-
..c "' -
OUTBREAK
ed him said Morin would be charged " .,,u-
with conspiracy and sedition as the ;n,n '"ke,n f"r
active head of the alleged plot. oc,ock ' p,;rn"1 Obregon to
Other arrests are expected as it I'k" a lunch engagement
known other persons have been under! sharP on hour- ,hp discussions
surveillance during the lengthy i., were renewed. After two hours and
vestigation in which federal and state' '"" however, thev were brought to
officers have cooperated. Because ' General Obregon. accompan-
the outbreak spparentlv nipped. N no br Jwn M- Amador. Mexican snb
unusual precautions have been taken secretary of foreign affairs, emerged
by the civil authorities in this sec- from th- private car occupied bv Gen
tj0n 1 era Is Scott and Funston. walked rap-
idly down the railroad yards, climbed
ARIZONA GUARDS
DIGGING DITCHES
AT DOUGLAS CAMP
New Phase of Soldier Life
Looms Before Enthusiastic
Rookies. Mobilization to .
. Be Complete Saturday. I
! DOUGLAS. May 11. While the lat-1
lest information received here is to'
'.the effect that the mobilization of the,
j Arizona National Guard will not be
! completed before tomorrow night or,
Saturday morning, the work of pre-'
.paring the camp site for the regiment'
I went forward today, Members of
, Company G.. the local company, lab-
t ored under the hot desert sun, dig- j
Iging trenches for Water pipe lines,
making sanitary arrangements, etc. i
Store clerks and men who had nev-1
er done manual labor before in their j
I lives were Uept employed in this man'
. ner for the greater pirt of the day by ;
I
I , ARTILLERY FROM FLORIDA
I ' PKNSACOLA. Fla.; May 11. Tbe
iTwelflh and Seven! v-sevenlh rom-
panies of coast artillery left Hoday for
I Fort Sam Houston. Texas.
1
'.AVIATORS TO COLUMBUS nip'ure oetweh the I ntted state
RAN DfKGO, May 11. Lieutenants ! "d , Mexico. So far h tbe United
Rilph Royeck. John Curry and Rot S. States is concerned. It is said, its ar
Urown of the signal corps aviation '"it in the Mexican state of Chihua
scbool at North Island, who recently '''' i" remain nracticallv inactive,
qualified for the rank of junior mili-The only break that run nossihly
tary aviator, received orders from th come would follow en attack by Car
War Department today to proceed to . rnzisias nnon American troops.
i Columbus. N. M., to Join the First
Aero Squadron. They will leave to -
morrow.
JEERING MEXICANS PUT '
TO FLIGHT IN EL PASO. '
KL PASO. Tex.. May 11 Eight men
of the provost guard fired over the
heads of a ieerine little crowd of Mex-
1 icans tonight In "Chicua iiuita" a dia-
trlct of the city inhabited by few ex-
; met oi me city innaDitea ny tew ex-
j cept Mexicans. The squad of patrol-!
ine soldier was met by some thirty !
men and boys who supplements a I
chorus of derisive remarks with rnl-
i f maiim Th mmmmiininiiMl
officeT ordered th crowd to dispee denek W. Sibley, commander of
land then sav orders to tire. That"" exneditionary force in the Pib
i crowd dispersed rapidly. None were'Kend district has been made the tar
I Injured. set for shots tired by Mexican.
i CONFERENCE AT JUAREZ
I ENDS IN DISAGREEMENT;
! UP TO WASHINGTON NOW
Long Parlying Between Scott and Obregon Fails to Settle
Differences. Carranza Refuses to Approve American
Occupation, Insists on Withdrawal, And Forces Obregon
Into Deadlock with Americ an Conferees.
LONG DISTANCE DIPLOMACY
NOW TO HANDLE THE TROUBLE.
Disagreement Does Not Mean
! American Expedition to Sta
With Defacto Forces will D
Opinion of Officers.
(By Review Leased Wire)
EL PASO, May 11. After al
most two weeks of di-'cussion the
conferences of Generals Scott
Knnston and Obregon over Am
erican troops dispositions in Mex
ico, came to an end tonight wlth-
out any agreement being reached."
The whole matter was referred
back to the American and de fac
to governments to be settled
throueli diplomatic channel.
Tonight the situation is almost
exactly where it stood before the
conference began. The Mexican
government ftill insists on the
withdrawal of General Pershing's
columns upon a certain date and
wants that date to come ouirkly.
It is known that General Obregon
has been willing to make conces
sions In order to reach an agree
ment with the American confer
ees. He has been overruled, how
ever, by the first chief. Venustia
no Carranza. and his advisers.
After practically conceding the
demands of the American confer
ees, be was compelled to reverse
hit attitude. The end of the lie
rotiations can-e today after two
conferences had been held.
The nift began a ten o'clock in the
. . . ... , .:, ...
into his waiting automobile, and drove
a way.
! General Obregon was accompanied
! to his machine bv General Funston.
;The Mexican conferee's nanner was
abrupt and vexed, but .General Funs
'. ton smiled cheerily a she bade good
I General Funston re-entered the car.
I Then Colonel Robert E. Lee Michie.
'nide o General Scott, came out ind
: distributed copies r the following
;'nMt to the waiting newspaper
men
"We wish to announce that,
after several conferences marked
throughout with cmpicuOus cour
tesy and good will, in which con
frenc mutual impressions were
exchanped and information was
tilled upon the military situation
on the frontier, it was agreed
UDon by both conferees to sua
nend the conferences and report
back to their gvernments. in or
der that these may be able,
through their respective foreign
deoartments, to conclude this
matter: and that the 'nding of
these conferences does not mean
in any way. a rupture of the good
relations of friendship between
'th conferees nor between the
respective governments.
(Signed)
A. Obreaon: H. L. Scott,
Frederick Funston.
Tonight It m pointed out anthori-
tativ.-ly tbst the result of the various
;n.eetinas in Kl Pao des not mean
'that there iis env immedinte threat of
1 ' understood that General Ohre-
'c"" ns '""'n nenniieiv wrneuaaasna
pon has been definitely warned that
I such an attack will mark the begin
ning of reprisals.
Significant! enough conditions a
lone the border were re-emphasized
tonight by the receipt of dispatches
from Marathon. Texs. stating that
Mexican bandits had again had cross-
"d "' Amriri.n territory nrt tired
on American soldiers and civilians.
""
. . ,
Couriers Fired On
nrdine to nmher renorl a military
motor ennvevin meujters troni Ma-
iot Georf T. LsJistorne to Colonel
Rupture in Opinion of Scott,
y However, and First Clash
rive America Into War, in the
1 Army men here refused to coru-
meu; 011 these occurrences except to
state that they were likely to be re
I pected at intervals.
Carranza Insists
j With the negotiations here ended,
jand the discussion reverting to Wash
ington under the direct control of
! President Wilson and S-cretary tan
j.'ing.. more became known tonight of
.the developments of the fortnight jitst
I pasx d.
I Always For Withdrawal
j It is now stated positively that the
Mexican government, so far as that
part of it represented by General
Carranza is concerned, has not for
one instant admitted the considera
tion of any other subject than wiiu
jdrawal. The discussions began with
. the conferees at cross purposes. Gen
! eral Obregon having come to th fcr.j
Jder with the intention of showing th
1 Americans that they should immedi
'a'ely mifhdraw from Mexican soil;
j while the American arrived euipu
. ered only to treat of the disposition
cf their troops in the chase after Vil
1 la bznd'ts.
1 At the very first conference Gener-
al Obregon was informed by General
I Scott and Funston that he need have
ro aeoe that tte American troops
.would be taken out until the govern
ment of the l'nited States was thor-
! ougMy convinced that the mission it
(had begun had been driven to a suc
cessful conclusion.
, The onlv object of the conference.
General Obregon wss told, was' the
: gaining of the active cooperation of
the Carranzistas. the l'nited Slates
I not caring who wiped out the trouble
some bandit groups so long as the art
was accomplished.
Obregon Agreed
I'pon finding the American confer-
,ees Inflexible, General Ohresoa yield
ed at the second conference, the
remorable twelve hour meeting in a
WM holer, at which he and General
Scott reached a tentative agreement,
end recommended to General Obregon
,tha; the cooperative plnn presented
;ty the American government te en
1 irsed.
I Carranza Objects
j At thin point in the negotiations the
.hitch came. General Carranza is un
derstood to have !nsisted that in lieu
of immediate wiihdrawal. a definite
date must at least be set for the nortii
(ward retirement of the American col
umns. j The fir-'t chief is said to have declar
led that he never could countenance
'a situation in which written words
j would show the Mexican government
(as having consented to the presence
01 America!) sotuiers on Mexican soil.
Agree-rent Hopeless
Front the information avai'uble. it
is believed that General Ohregon first
tried to convince his chief of the ini
nossibility of his demands. Failing,
be switched his own position in the
mntter. Conference after conference
wa dragged through until at today's
meeting, the hopelessness of arriving
at an agreement was realized. ,
Reflects On Obregn
This remit bavins been attained,
if was pointed put tonight. General
Carrcnza has won a political victory
over his minister of wr. forced the
negotiations into diplomatic channel
and brought the whole question of
withdrawal back to the suggestions
contained in his note t- Washington,
a month ago.
Is Carranza Rival
Persona intimate with MexJtan af
fairs assert tonUht thst polilics play
ed a prominent port in the conferenc
es, and have it that General Obregon
has beccnie General Carrnnza's chief
political rival.
In del-gating the ministter t war
o represent the defacto governn-ent at
conference dealing with military af
fairs, the nrt chief did the logical
thing but it is asserted here, he also
placed upon General Ohregon a bur
den that could hardly be considered
welcome.
It the conferee reached an agree
ment with the Americans he would
suffer in the eyes of all good Mexicans
if be i-sitsed a disagreement h would
be enilty of plunging his country, al
ready devastated by the inroad of re
peated revohuiona. into war.
Obreeon came north, it was stated,
with pl-nary powers. After he had .
(Continued on Tk 2)
