A.
A
If f
mi
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1916.
NUMBER 19.
Record of Sam C. Major.
Mr. C. W. Hamlin, our present
Congressman, in his circular let
ter to the voters of this district,
among other things, makes the
following statement, viz:
"I take it for granted that the
people of the district are going
to support the man that they
think is best fitted to serve them
at this time," and he makes the
further statement "It seems to
me that in these crucial times
it will be poor business to take
up a new and inexperienced
man."
In reply to these statements
will say that I have had far more
experience in legislative mat
ters than Mr. Hamlin had at the
time he offered himself as a
candidate against Judge Cooney,
of Saline County after Mr. Coon
ey had only had the office for
three terms, or six years. It
seems that Mr. Hamlin has un
uergone some mental changes
as to how long a Congressman
should remain in Congress since
he ran against and defeated
Judge Cooney for his fourth
term. At that time six years
was enough; now twelve years
is not enough. But he says he
should be returned to uphold the
President's hands. We have
about Twenty-Four Thousand
Democrats in this district and
we have surely, among the num
ber, more than one man who is
able and willing to do this.
I was born in Howard county,
as was my father before me, my
grandfather having moved here
from Kentucky in 1826, and
have practiced law for about
twenty-five years. I was pros
ecuting attorney of my county
for about six years and repre
sented the Fourteenth Senator
ial District in the State Senate
in the 44th and 45th General
Assemblies. During that time
I introduced in the Senate and
succeeding in passing both
branches of the legislature and
securing the governor's signa
ture to the following, among a
good many other bills, viz:
An act requiring the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway Com
pany to remove a charge that
they had been making for years
bf 25 cents for each passenger
transported across the railroad
bridge at Boonville thereby
saving to the traveling public of
this state thousands of dollars
!each year.
An act requiring the same
, company to remove a charge for
freight transported across said
bridge amounting to something
like 5.00 per car, which they had
been collecting for years there
!by saving to the business men
land shippers of Missouri thous
ands of dollars each year,
j An act prohibiting Insurance
Companies from paying to their
officers exhorbitant salaries, and
thereby increasing the profits
justly due the policy-holders in
said companies.
I An Act prohibiting Insurance
Companies, their officers, stock
I holders, agents and employees
.from speculating with money
and securities of said companies,
j An Act giving to the County
j Courts of this state power to
acquire lands for the use of
Poor Houses, such as they had
for Court Houses and Jails,
j An Act authorizing Electric
and Interurban Roads to con
idemn lands for right of way,
isuch as are enjoyed and pos
sessed by steam roads.
An Act creating and establish
ing the State Poultry Board for
; Missouri to the end that that
1 great industry in Missouri be en
couraged and stimulated.
An Act to survey, mark out
and erect suitable monuments
along the Santa Fe Trial in the
counties Howard, Saline and
Lafayette and appropriating
money for the same,
j An Act concerning excess bag
gage carried by common car
riers, fixing penalty for loss or
injury, etc. This bill was ad
vocated by the Missouri Drum
mers Association.
An Act creating and establish
ing the Missouri Waterway
Commission a bill of great im
portance to all river counties am not wholly inexperienced,
and counties with inundated and That when in the Missouri legis
everfiowed lands. lature I did accomplish some
In addition to these bills above things beneficial, not only to the
.mentioned, that became laws of ; people of my district, but to the
Missouri, I introduced and pass- people of the State. In Jefferson
nd through the Senate of Mis-j City we worked under the same
souri the following bills, viz: rules, largely, as they work un
An Act to regulate white and der in Washington, and that a
colored passengers on railroads , man who can saw wood in Mis-
known as the "Jim Crow . souri would likely be able to do
Law." the same thine in Washini-tnn.
the 7th district may know that I ; LOCAL GIRL MAY
BECOME ACTRESS
Honor the Flag.
Of the many hundreds who
visited the new Athletic ball park
Lexington School Teacher Wins ,ast Wednesday, not a few were
An Act requiring each voter, I would at least appreciate an
mark ai
lot unless physically disabled,
Honor in Photoplay Contest.
The Beauty and Brains Con
test, a nation wide enterprise
which under the guidance of the
World-Equitable Motion Picture
Corporation, has been running
for the past eight months in the
Photoplay Magazine, is drawing
to a close. Lillian Russell, one of
surprised and shocked at the
use to which the United States
l flag was put. On account of the
dirt it was difficult for the pitch
ers to locate the home plate, and
looking for something to mark
it the United States flag was the
first thing availablt and was
used. It was done thoughtless-
I w:i iiiii T inner mn-rwexn ni- r n lw a. i iu.tr. iiiiiiin k shi I r m ill
l itnoi ayi1 tv-ldic ail' '-" i f lrvn..l,(K,,-, .
, ij uiuin anu iitaic 1110 vvvii uai" UJJUIIUIIILV IU LI Y, itllU II KlVcn J " ' iikiuu LUC lill . .
this nomination ar H Plpctinn T : selection.
and a bill making it a misde- promise to be found at all times ' Gracelinda C. Jameson of Lex
meanor for election judges to in (faithfully battling for the in- ington, Mo., one of the original
any way intefere with the voter Iterests of the people of District, candidates, was selected by Miss
jin so doing.
An Act making the state liable
for costs in felony cases, whr'r3
the prosecuting witness was un
ible to pay same, as the law is
today, when ever an examining
magistrate discharges a person
accused of crime no witness or
State and Nation.
Respectfully submitted,
SAM C. MAJOR.
In
was
Criminal Court,
the Criminal Court which
convened Thursday with
officer of the court can roller t Judge Rich Priding the follow-
his fees-
premium
! jarties
thereby putting a
on justices binding
over to the Circuit
; Court, and greatly adding to the
criminal costs cf the state,
j An Act making a felony pun
ishable by imprisonment in the
Russell and is one of the hun
dred who will enter the final
elimination. The elimination is
now going forward to select the
eleven successful candidates.
Gracelinda C. Jameson, when
the contest originated, was pre
vailed upon to send her photo
graph with the result that when
the eight thousand likenesses
ing cases were tried and set
Corrine Dean, charged with
f sault to kill was fined $100.00 jw?re ne over she was selected
and cost. Paroled. jas one of the hundred most like-
The case of Lee Gulley, who is film subjects by Lillian Rus
charged with rape and assault ise11 Tne Contest called for an
to rape was set for August 10. le(Jual amount of brains and
TMn I - t- A- J mi VlPniltv Tf U'QQ oucoA inl fnv U
penitentiary for any person to , a w ue inurs-, "IT. " " , ",c
'furnish intoxicating liquors or,8 but was continued on candidate to write a letter ,n her
drugs to inmates of the prison. !1accont of sickness at the Gul" Wn ha"d T "' i 1
An Act creating and establish iIey home- .reasons for desiring to become a
ing a commission to ascertain Jame Stro" . nero ofLlT The
'information from the railroads Doyer' c.hafed Wlth receiving! candidates, were then grouped
stolen cnickens, tnal was set "3 lu wie "on "i me country
in which they lived and two can-
NY. C. Henry, who was arrested didates from five different see-
by Detective J. F. Shinkel, at ;tl0ns Wl11 be final'y chosen. Lil
Myrick, Tuesday, for breaking tlian Russell, Sophie Irene Loeb,
ihto an automobile, was sen-.a noted New York, society
tenced to two years in the peni- writer, William A. Brady, the
r TT- ... T itnmnils thPnrriQl mananror n ra
mough the Senate, I oted for -the jud There wm bg ten
n ass stpn in rnp nnsflcrp nr " " ' j .
... O
fnr thp TinmnQp nf rpcrnYaf in op
rates, ascertaining the values of J' "gtU. 9
their properties, etc. to the end
that the, rates could be intellig
ently established.
In addition to these bills that I
nyself introduced and passed
may explain an act, but not ex
cuse it. The flag is an emblem;
it stands for all the principals
our forefathers upheld. It should
be deeply revered, consistently
loved and loyally supported. It
is a careful reminder of united
loyalty and to regard it lightly
is to err in patriotic apprecia
tion. At West Point and Army posts
it is an unwritten law that the
flag shall never touch the ground,
and Army regulations prescribe
in detail what honor shall be
paid the colors. Devotees of our
national game should not
thoughtlessly offer the slightest
indignity to the national em
blem. Upon this premise we
condemn the action of those who
allowed the use of the flag on
last Wednesday.
From
Another Chicken Thief
Dover.
Constable Irving Hodges of
Dover brought George Carey,
colored, to Lexington Thursday
and placed him in Uncle Wil
liam's hotel. Carey is charged
with- stealing ehfekens.
the following bills, viz:
The pure Food Law, the Two
Cent Tassenger Rate Law, the
Deputy Sheriff Joe Waddell.
Celebrated Anniversary.
Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Wright
winning candidates from the .celebrated the wooden anniver-
United btates and one from Can- sary of their marriage, Wednes-
Death of Miss Annie Doelling, ada. The eleven successful 'day evening, May 3, by enter
Miss Annie Doelling died Fri- young ladies will be taken to'tninincr o mimW nf'fhoir ,mn,r
Law reducing freight rates, the day afternoon at 7: 30 o'clock, New York, a month will be de- friends at their home Six-
uenerai l nmary Law, tne Ann- alter an illness of several voted to teaching them the value teenth and Onedia Streets
Lobby Law, the Law Creating months, at the home of of various dramatic angles, and and Mrs. Wright have
tne barbers board, tne mil es- her sister, Mrs. Fred Schwon- then those who show proper in- married five years,
tablishing a Twine Factory in gerdt, who resides one mile east'terest and sufficient ability, will j The guests departed at a late
the Tenitentiary, the Vital Sta- of Lexington. " become permanent members of hour declaring that they had
tistics Bill, an act prohibiting the Miss Doelling was uorn in Na- the World and Equitable stock 1 never spent a more delightful
sale of intoxicating liquors to poleon, December 13, 1884, and companies, and at goodly salar- evening,
habitual drunkards and intoxi- was 32 years of age. She came ies appear in films. !
cated persons, an act prohibiting to Lexington with her parents T . . ,. , 1 ."'. r ., T".
tp j,ii.i n,i ,- e u u . i Lectures, theatre parties, stu-, son will be one of the successful
the drinking and carrying of when an infant, where she has ,. , , , . .
,. , . . , . . , , dio lessons and a number of entrants.
nquui puuiiuiy un uauis aim since resicieu.
Mr.
been
1 Kill
n
n
$4 1
at do
need in
n in I.) ii imjjiEH
from permitting drunken men j The deceased is survived by
from riding on trains, an act pro- three sisters, Mrs. Fred Schwon
hibiting betting on billiard or: gerdt and Misses Lydia and Ida
pool tables, etc., an act prohib- Doelling all of this city,
iting the sale of cigarettes pap-; The funeral conducted by Rev.
ers, etc., to minors under eigh- J. C. Bierbaum was held from
teen years of age, the electric the Trinity Evangelical Church
headlight bill, the bill providing Sunday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock.
for the equipment of trains with
events are carded for the sue- j The winning candidates will be
cessful candidates and it is very announced throughout the
likely that Gracelinda C. Jame- country early in June.
Death of A Former Citizen.
Word was received here Mon-
ASK YOURSELF THE ABOVE QUESTION.
Then don't forget to ask our prices.
There's a big difference in the quality of lumber. You can
see that by comparing our stock with most any other stock in
the country. We have been mighty exacting in the selection
of our stock. It is so good that you'll have to go some to find
another to equal it
And best of all our prices are not a bit higher than you'll
pay elsewhere for very ordinary lumber.
Protect yourself by buying here.
"The Yard that Safes and Satis&ea.'
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager.
safety appliances, an act re
' quiring the emdovees of rail-
roads to be paid the 15th of dy that Arthur Johnson a for
each month, an act compelling mer citizen of thls city' died
railroads to fill switches and Saturday afternoon at 3 o'clock
1 guard rails for safety of em-!at the home of his sister Mrs
ployees, an act extending the!Fred Becker, in St. Louis. His
provisions of the fellow-servant iHeath was due to typhoid fever.
Haw tr mines nnH mining cm. Mr. Johnson was born in this i
! ployees, an act providing for a.city about 38 'ears R and was
imine inspector, an act providing the son of the Iate A- T- John"
I for the examination of certain jSor1,
'mines daily, an act, prohibiting; IIe is sunived by his mother
the shipment of intoxicating and one sister and an aunt- Mrs
j liquors into counties that have i Frank Kriehn of this co
adopted the local option law, ex-i The body was brought to Lex
cept for individual or family use inton Monday evening and the
and to persons having the right luneral held luesday evening at
to sell same in such counties. ,four o'clock. The services were
In addition to these laws I vot- conducted by Rev. T. M. Cobb,
ed for all laws, resolutions and Barker Will Speak Here,
constitutional amendments for jonn T. Barker, Attorney
which I felt that a majority of General of Missouri and candi
the people of my district wanted date for the governorship on
me to vote and upon which they; the Democratic ticket, will
wished an opportunity to ex-'gp(,ak in Lexington, May 19, at
press inemseives. 2:30
In view of the statements made '
by Mr. Hamlin I make this state-1 E. N. Hopkins spent Friday in
ment in order that the people of Waverly on business.
p. m.
I V"
Week
IS
Bargain Week
THE MILLINERY DEPARTMENT
WE ARE FEATURING
HATS AT S3.50 and $5.00
IN THE READY-TO-WEAR ROOM
WE ARE FEATURING
Coats and Suits at 1-4 Oil
INCLUDING THE FAMOUS
"WOOLTEX CREATIONS"
COME EARLY
