oc::r:c c? :z. era to ijaug::?; worts urtE TnoucLE avith our tsiacons
Ds-la Wtor
ma Pan
OoTirnm't Test
!
Deming Air
100 per ct. Pure
Breathing Test
11
A LIVE PAPER Iltf A LIVE TOWN
VOLUME XIV, NUMBER. XXXVII,
DEMING, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1018.
FIVE CENTS TIIL COPY
do ran
ray at aa
Local Company Left at Keen Taday
Ovor tha E. P. A S. W, With
Silver City Company
CCKPANY 6CEt M STRONG
Routing Man MNtlng at thi Crys
tal Theater tiki Things ta a
Blood Hoat; 28 Mora Enlist
The National Guurd of New Mex
ico, Ariiona and Texan have been
ordered to mobilise on the border,
the Deming company leav today ov
the E. P. ft 8. W. by special train,
the Silver City company joiiig tbem
at thig point, over 00 strong.
Those enlisted now number over
.r5 and Lieut. John C. Watson, Sergt.
I Tarry A. Dean, and Privates Wells,
' Rutherford and E. H. Sloss remain
behind to complete the company, at
least to 05 and it iiossiblo to 140.
Dean and Sloss went to Columbus
this morning to add a few recruits
to the Guard. Lieutenant Watson
urges all citisens to do their utmost J
in getting good recruits for the com
pany. Recruiting was moving at a snail's
pace until after the mass meeting at
the Crystal, Wednesday night, since
that time over twenty men have been
received. Those who delivered pat
riotic address at the mass meeting in
cluded, Liuet. John C. Watson, re
cruiting officer; Copt. A. W. Brock,
Edw. Pennington, R. F. Hamilton, Dr.
R. ('. Hoffman and Major James R.
Waddill, whose eloquence made the
red blood tingle.
The whole guard was assembled
this morning for medical inspection
by Dr. Hoffman.
The National Guard will not cros
the border unless they all re-enlist.
The roster of Company "I" thin
morning was as follows:
Capt., Arthur W. Brook; 1st Lieut.,
John ( Watson; 2nd Lieut., Clyde
Earl Ely; Sergeants, W. E. Youn
R. A. Lynd, II. A. Dean, Godfrey
Trowbridge, and Dennis Snyder1
Corporals, A. J. Iluxtable and Walt
er Ingersoll; Musicians, David Hoff
man and Frederick Powell ; Privates,
Will Collins, Alex. Hamilton, Wells
Rutherford, Tom Hull, Roy and N.
Phillips, Will MeDonotigh, Fern and
Claud Dwyer, George Btriokler, Han
cock, Ilnllidny, Weaver, Jewitt, Keely,
McAdnms, Mills, McClure, Mnnnt. I
meyer, m-ison. r-
man, Shields, McAlhster, Toney,
Sloss McDougnl, McQuado. Ander-.
w . r V . I T1 . 1 L ft
son, Allcock, Swartz, Wells, 8oper,;
Priest, Fagan, Cowdon,
Lawrence
and Wing. j
Editor G. E. Parks, at Columbus,
reports everything quiet and order-
ly there. !
In honor of the Guard, Mayor M.
CLr"U:."Tr?r.r.
T Jl i-l -II 1
uuniiicon iv i'iudu aim uiu tuciu uifu
speed as they took their departure i
for Columbus. Schools closed andi,
the town assembled en masse to bid,
the boys good-bye. 't is hoped thnt
Deming will be made headquarter'
for the New Mexico Red Cross.
The Williams Girls' Band furnish- j For one year more than a quartet j
ed inspiring musio for the occasion. : of a century, Mrs. Alice Smith, has Deming has lot of pntriotism, lint
i been the faithful and efficient teach- ;t takes a lot to wale u up.
Prominent Suffragists Coming i er of the primary grade in the Dem-'
Mrs. J. G. Moir has been advised I ing schools. She has seen many lit- Secrehiry Ijiiic has made the
by letter that Deming will on Satur- tie tots, including her own grano- ch,,,,,. f Commerce a very at
day of this week he visited by two child, Miss Esther Bolich, start in tractive plnce.
prominent suffragists, Mrs. Alice her room and go through the high
Slitxer Burke, of New York and school and perhaps the university ori Rogers wiis taken seriously
Miss Nell Richardson of Virginia, who other higher institutions of learning j Sunday, but yon can't keep a
are motoring over the Southwest. ' and has kept steadily at her post of tflMMj mnn down.
It is expected that a publie meet- j dnty. I
ing of some nature will be held. 1
FiM Arkamai Family Hen I
Deming and Luna oounty are very
glad to welcome J. E. Tarpley, a
prominent merchant and farmer,
with his good family, former res-
idents of Hope, Arkansas,
They will occupy the
Douglas
residence recentlv vacated bv At-
torney John C. Watson. she has decided to enter the lists for ritv Xormnl are members of the Na-! Wm- cel th Pnt M"'
There an four daughters, Mrs. H. political favors and would anpreeiat ,;onn ottnn. 0.d for the Normal. , hnt of the oW(,e
E. Reed, whose husband is with the' the support of her friends at the
Santa Fe railroad company, Misses
Fay, Nudie and Mildred and a son,'
Master Elbert
Mr. Tarpley and his father, W. M. '
Tarpley, who will be here shortly, had charge of one and service in six, ing on his rider, breaking his left the Big Bend country and knew the
have purchased a thousand acres of has been ordered to report to field -imi. cutting his forehead and brois- miners who were eaplnrcd by bandit'
land near Hondale and will arrange headquarters at Colnmbns, under ine h;m all over. Dr. Hoffman re-; and made their escape. Supt. Butler
for its development as soon aa pos-: command of CoL MUliken. Bill will paired the damages, hnt it will tak ; was formerly employed by the Dcm
sible. j nrs make good. several days to get hack to normal j ing Ies and Electric company.
let c:r:;a cr.zxz:zi a rzs
CoCU CCSIZTY AT CXCZ
A meeting will be held tonight at
the hospital to organise a Bed Cross
Society for Dealing. Miss Helen
Swop has a lot of signatures al
ready. This should be headquarters for
I be state, W. E. Holt is already a
member of the state association.
Kidity Rles of Val
The call of the printshop and the
editors desk baa again proven too
strong for Willnrd E. Bolt, who this
week bought a half interest in the
Doming Oraphic, the paper with
whio he did so much to build up and
place in tbo front rank of the week
lies of New Mexico. Mr. Holt and
the Grapbie are both to be eongrat
ulated on the deal whioh brings one
of Deming" s most enthusiastic boost
ers back to a place where be can ex
ercise suon great influence on the
life of Deming and southern New
Mexico, and his editorial efforts will
doubtless be directed to the doveloi
ment of this section of the state, a
section which Mr. Holt considers the
best part of New Mexico.
I ne neadliglit extends a warm
welcome to Mr. Holt on his return
l the fold, and wishes the Graphic
tinder the combined management of
him and Clyde Earl Ely, a long ana
proserous life to the community.
Doming Headlight.
VERY SADLY DISARRANGED
Movement of National Guard Pre
vent! Carrying Out of Original
Plans; Would Have Been Very In
teresting to Everybody Concerned.
The faculty and the class of 1916
of the Deming High school each and
veryone agree with General Sherman
on the subject of war. The whole
plan of commencement is disarranged
because of the war program, which
takes several of the young men of
the class who belong to the National
Guard, viz., Will McDonough, Alex
ander Hamilton and Roy Phillips.
The class had plans all laid for .
very interesting mid unique com
mencement this year. They elimin
ii led the class annual and class piny
und had arrangements made for the
funniest "circus" that ever struck
town.
John C. Watson, 1st lieutenant oi
the National Guard company here,
wns selected ns commencement or
ator, hut Rev. If. T. Mitchelmore wilt
,,,,,v of j,, hj steBd. Com.
men(,enM.nt MercisM -j,, heM Bt
. Ppv , . Th, M,v 25. !
. Ri,Bta.n... ,. . k, -...of the
on under the trees at the
-rw I J
central
. . . .M! 0i .a h. Mn.vi
nrf(1reJ,g jj hegivni May 25.
pev Tneodore pjntt will preach
. ' . a.,j. f.oi .
. r.,. '' 1
The Eighth Grade graduation ex
; ! iii u. l-m . ,u. i.:u ...i.i
. May 25. the d-
. . l. rli oi.
. ., .?, t . vi.-.i..j i.
Details will be published next week, j
Mrs. Alice Smith !
For ten years she never lost a half
hour's time on account of sickness.
During vacations she has kept
herself "up to grade" by attending
normal schools in Chicago, Milwnu-
kee, California and other places.
She has always been known as the .
children's friend end is nne of the
best beloved women in this section.
At the persistent urging of friends
democratic primaries June 6. j
.
W. H. McDonongh, who has had
a wide hospital experience, having
FliiST VOLUNTEER
GAVMO.i':;!Zi::s
Judge Colin Neblett, D. M
and J. M. Garr Busy Getting
Men for Volunteer Cavalry
A. W. HANSON FOR COLONEL
Will Be One of the Crack Military
Organizationi in the Whole
United States of America
With Lieutcuut A. W. Hanson as
colonel and Judgo Colin Neblett and
D. M. Pryor us majors, this region
will organize a rcgimoiit of cuvalry to
be known as the First olimteer Cav
airy.
It is expected there will be about
twelve troops that will have 100 men
each.
Judge Neblett und Mr. Pryor will
very sooii begin a ennvas of the
state and J. M. Oiirr will look after
the details in Arizona. In each com
munity three good men will he ap-
Miinted to secure names.
Deuiuig will he heitdpunrtcrs and
it Is exacted and freely predicted
that this will be a military organiz
ation that will make the whole L'nited
States and Mexico sit up and take
notice.
On the Inst pngu of this issue will
bit found nu implication blank that
enn be cut out and mailed to Deming
ns directed.
LITTLE RAYS OF SUNSHINE
Don't lie discouraged. The suffra
gists will In) here Saturday.
Mining in Luna county will bring
dollars to everybody; und we're jusi
netting started.
Gen. Carrnnza should know that n
truly great statesman 'docs not
chance his mind us often ns lie does
his linen.
Miss Clark said the motto of the
Hottentot-, was: ''Cheer up; you will
-non lie dend."
Innds of splendid new alfalfa are
coming into the market. It sure looks
good and smells like creciiliacks.
Did von ever figure what John
Voounn did for D.-miug when he got
Gardner to come here with "Coen
Coin T" Think il over.
Wilt Demi ni ii the liciidii'iiirtcr-
Firsf Volunteer Ciivnlry. we
nne ,ln''-" hither up on the
flg Pole.
. ,
A nr,M ,rl"'li own n'"'
tried to work some clever stuff on
the cilv ner this week, hut got
I cnuirht in the ni l. Don'l take any-
hodv s word. Ask Arizona how she
!-- lry.
: AJ.J.4.... .
LOCAL AND PERSONAL
:
Trninmnster Murphy of the 8. P.,
is in the city today grating num-
crou, friends,
official ,
fin a H I
Frits Richter has been
"feeder" for the National
anil ,ne My he in strictly O. K. I
Five of the fncnltv and
about '
-,- f the students of the Rilvei .
, F.. Hohbs was ridini a fractious
young horse Tuesday afternoon, on
Silver avenue, when the animal
reeled straight over forward, land-'
OFFICIAL STATEMENT
After several conferences,
marked throughout with con
spicuous courtesy and good
will, In which conferences mut
ual Impressions were exchanged
and Information was collected
upon the military situation on
the frontier, It was agreed upon
by the conferees to suspend the
conference! and report back to
their governments, in order that
these may be able, through their
respective foreign departments,
to conclude this matter. The
ending of these conferences doee
not mean In any way a rupture
of the good relations of friend
skip between the conferees not
between the respective govern
ments. (Signed) A. Obregon,
H. L. Scott,
Frederick Funston
Graphic Force Increased
Tie Graphic force was augmented
this week by the addition of Wll
red Waddcll, for several years one
of tin leading ad n:en on the El Paso
Times and Herald, and n newspaper
man of wide experience.
Air. vtnddell is a Spanish-Ajnerican
war veteran and past commander of
Leonard Wood Camp No. 1, Depart
ment of the Philippine Islands.
Welcome to our fair eitv.
tlt:ssten cc::centrator is
fast neq ran
Superintendent Starr li in Search of
Any Kind of Mining Property that
Can Show the Right Kind of Pay
Dirt;. He is Well Supported.
Noted mining engineers and miner-
logists all over oiu- country arc look
ing toward New Mexico as one of
the great mineral states of the I'm-
ion. T. is fact is becoming more and
more apparent every day. Scarce
ly a day passes that something good
is not brought to light. Prospector
re (Hiking around in the hills anil
inn it v ot them are uncovering vulu-
hie minerals thut have 1-eii lying
for ages waiting to lie discovered.
I. una county is keeping right up in
the limelight anil her vast imucral
ealth is being brought to the at
tention of Ing men.
Bringing out this idea, the Graphic
prescnlutivc was thix week tnlk-
iii'.' with I. I. ntnrr, tru.-teu ol (lie
(iiiiie Tungstuii Proiwrty in the Vic-
lorio range, whoso mines are now in
s-ratiou and for which a conceit-
rntor is being erected on the ground.
Mr. Starr is one of the licld en-
uiueers of the Qohllleld Ciiuxoliililli"!
Mines Company, whose exploration
department is in San Francisco, and
he is a practical mining mini who
kuous a good thing when he sees it.
While be is oierntiiig the tungsten
pioK'iiies here, he has his experienc
ed eye out for any minim; proH.rty,
on mntter how bit:, so if you hear of
anything, or hnve anything that wj
good, go and see Mr. Starr or drop
him n line at Deming. He knows thoj
mining game from alpha to nmegn and ,
has a company hack of him strong
enough to carry nut nny plan lluit;
would interest them. j
Il is interesting to note that the
tungsten concentrator will handle 10.
r 15 one each shift. J
"Vive Luna County and Xew Mex-j
ico." i
I Mrs. R. I. Younii of Lns Crnces.
who has been visiting her sister, Mrs.!
James R. Waddill, has returned to
her home. I
For Poitmaster at Mieese i
Secretary H. E. Hubble, will hold1
at Deming, May 27th, an examination I
for the position of fourth class post.
master at Miesse.
Mr. Hubble is the civil service rep i
resentative for this region and will
Ihe glad to give any information
desired concerning the coming cxnm
'nation.
Arthnr Flynn, of New York, a i
former member it the Guard, is in j
Deming. He will re-enlist if his;
parents consent. lie just came from j
CHAUTAUQUATO CO.VE
AGAIN KEXT SEASON
Was One of the Beit Things Ever
Promoted by the Chamber of
Commerce and the City
WILL BE PERMANENT FEATURE
Eight Hundred Dollar! Made in the
Pledgee In Eight Minute'i Time
One Hundred Signatures
Eitfht hundred dollars in eight min
utes. That is what Deming thinks
iiliout u high grado Chuutauiiuu.
I lint Deming likes good things anil
knows how to appreeialo them i..
lenrly evidenced by the fact that she
has extended the Kllison-White Svs-
I'lii a cordial invilution to come
agiiin next year.
The other evening, when pledge
nnls were passed through the uuo-
ii-nce, it took eight minutes to sc
lire over eight hundred dollars in
dedges, und when the regular eon
met was prepared by Siiierintend
nt Hendrix, tine hundred or more of
ur representative citizens, both men
and women, put Ihoir names to the
instrument with nlncritv.
They had seen the great ami lust .
ing good in a Chautaiupin and want
more of it.
There are no nnti-ehnutnupians
now. hverybody is for it. They
have a good, big, sweet taste mid lik-
We will therefore, next vcar,
have nu iiniimvemeiit on the verv su-
icrior program, if such a thing is
MISSIIllC.
Aside from the very siiiwrior at-
.............. f v .1.
....,,.,, ..iiu-i.io nunc. spoK-i
ii of Inst week, the closing dnv.
nought out the murveloiw N'ew York
ily Marine Hand. Dr. Hnnslierger
nil his moving pi.-tun-s of the Mnw.
on nnnrctie cxpedilion, perhaps the!
m.isl wonderful movies made: in
eiiioin mule quartette: Wood Itrigg.
in stories of the South: Sylvester A.
Long, president of the international
Iveemn association and one of th"
kings nf i he American platform : Dr.'
Ii'i'lieri I'niker Mile-, who has circled
the globe twice and crossed the ocean j
seventeen times, an author and writer
of world fame.
Sunday afternoon, vesper service
condui-teil by the Deming piisti.,-,
with .1. V. Kehuitz unisieiil ilirei'lor
and Mi Kiithei'iuc Wnmi'l. p'onist,
followed the song service and lecture.
Monday evening, the Knfllr Box
Choir, famous on two continents, lcil
hv Mr Balmer mid Miss Clark, both
while residents of South Afl-ii',1.
I'lo-eil I he delight t ill w eek, ihe most
nrilllahle from an intellectual sinrd
pninl and for shole-ome entevt iin
ment, the city has ever krown.
SiiM-rintenilcnl lli'iulriv gave Ileni
ing several lintiehi-s of regular Ameri
enii heaiilv lioiiii'ts and said it was
easy In Imo-t n renl worth-while
lown. like Demtn.'.
There we si -'-eelv nn attraction
that mi- v lh (he price of a
caon tie! . i
The cr' -'U voted the Vc York
City Mar :- Band, tlrot- V ifflr Boys
Choir, second: Ir. (irecn. third:
Long, Bennehnmp, and Zneldin.
fourth.
The "Pageant of King Arthur's
Court" held on the lawn of I he Pol
lard home Moiulav afternoon was
iee of the really chnrnrng portions l. Hughes. Frank N'ickell. J. A. Rhcn,
of the ehaiitaniiin program. Th" (trace Goehd, Mrs. Alice Smith, with
work was in charge of Miss Volii' Judge C. C. Roger, who is not a
B. Crit. who nnmes this interest . enndidate for anything, bin who wen
ine work in all ,he important cities along to look nftcr the whole hunch.
Following is the ct t of characters:, In connection with tlus mectinir wo
King Arthur, F.nv: Fonlk: Prn-; desire to commend most heartily tho
ces (luniiiivere. nil Overton: arch Hondale ITomestender's Club, that has
hishop.Hylton Tilley: Sir Lanncclot.; ,,,ne so much for the home life of the
Fred Shermnn: Sir mc Cnrleton' eommuuity and is now prepnring to
niirliee: Sir Kay. "vVillhim Sf d: Mel 1 erect a club him e, the lots for which
!:n, Joe Mornn: Sir MnJirrove. Walter have already been selected.
Itnuson: Porter's daughter. Mnrvi The new officers of the club are
ClarK. Herald. Pejrrnm McCreary : 1 Mr. Claud Grnliert. president, Mrs.
ladies of the court and ma:den of i Frank Kimliall and Mrs. R. W. Year
the princess. Mary and Lucy Clnrk.igin. vice-presMlents; Mrs. Onster
":ldrd Clayton. Mildred Jones, j hnut, secretary-treasurer.
Vema Tlolstcin. Iner Tnbor. Margaret Another inlerestinir feature of Hon
Todhnnter. Florence Romimrer, Opnl j .talc is the enlarged canning factory
Snderese, Athelenc Coleman. Ad.i j ocnitcd by Osborne and Bowen and
Kerr. Anna Donk. Dorothv Pontins. which is doing wonders for that part
Mnragnret Men-day. Tls Dickson. :
Mary Kelly. Mary Lncile MeCurdy.
Wnndra Pollnnl. Martha Monrnn.
Mnnwrct Kelly. Dorjo Berry, Mcr
cl M;lford. Mnls-I Steed, Doris Dod
erer. Dora Ijilhani, Dorothy Baker.
Lncile Rail hoi, Elisabeth Johnson,
Mnragiirct Holt, Rebecca Berry,
Winifred York, Anna Muy Cotton,
Jenelle Minis, tola May Watson,
Georgia Coxe, Christine Foster. Vera
Kennedy, KMher Robinson, EloUe
Samuel, Margaret Young, Evelyn
Tuylor, Cora Latham, Jessie May
(irnliam, Kula Ha.-le, Nadiue Kieth,
Malile Hodytteld, Helen Elliot, Mar
jfuret Muruii, Ruth Culln-rtson, Car
rol Mitchelmore, Betty Taylor aim
Mnrjorie Kerr.
The Kniirhls of King Arthur's Court,
and followers of Sir Mulgrave were
b'o llillis, Carl Sehurtz, Georgu
llolibs, Glen Diiiinignn, Henry Finn,
Hylton Tilley, Cli(Trd Conncway,
Stanley Oxcrholzer. Frank Neil. Don
ald Pontius, Murlin Lanier, Melvine
lingers, William und Roy Baker,
Walker HokwcII, Jnek Tabor, Martin
l.iiinnn, Alfred Morgnn, Leonard
Wagner, John Deckert. Richard
Leach and Jack Wutson.
.i
Pair of Loyal Patriot!
Judge B. V. McKeycs and N. A.
Ilolicli are what this heading says.
I.asi (.veiling they were hosts of the
National (iinird at the Princess
Ihcatcr and the bovs enjoyed it t
I he full.
Judge McKeves also presented the
Guard with a haiidsomn flag for the
armory, W
Another wny to nltain fame is to
Is- appointed postmaster.
CBRES VALLEY SOCIAL AND
INDUSTRIALASSOCIATICN MEET
Splendid Meeting at Hondale Last
Saturday. Candidate! All There
Shaking Hand!. Hondale il Forg
ing Right Ahead: Bright Outlook.
i .... ....
nie .Mimbres Vflllev Social nn.l
; Industrial Ao.-i..li,.n i- f il...
! f I ,, ti..
I ,. ... ,.i.i.. .1 . i '.j
: M.,n.lale last Si.lnr.lav.
,,,. . - .
-.. . ... i.i. i n, i i , mpii , in-1
ia-t tine, the lloiiilale Homesteader's
Club served a dinner III for a dnxen
I kings, the kind that has inndil th ii
i -lucnilid orgiinixntinn famous, follow
' ing which n ery ititere-tinK program
was carried out. Miss Kclieecn Cof-
llii pupils giving a pretty Indian
piny ami drill, musical numbers hcinv
I furnished by Mrs Grnbert, Miss Sul
livan. Miss Coftln, Robert Ycnrgin
' ami KciiIh'H Ferguson. The orator
ical -I nut - wen- put through safely hv
si-i-n-lnry Harry A. Irfine. W. E. Holt,
llieh ltanisey, (ienrge Dexter, Geo.
W. McCan. County Supt. flrnce
UocM. .1. W. DcWHt and others.
Ed Bcnmick prc-ided in his usual
ih-iisiiig manner.
County ciiiidiilali's were very much
in evidence and the Graphic is sar
in -living if they can run for oftW
ii- h.'II lis hey eii'i eat, every one of
il i'i" w:ll he elected by big major
ities. Tlme fine Indies of the Hnnnnii
lliinie-leiiiler's Cliili. who planned nn.l
furni-hed the dinner, suggest that
the next time they conic, the gentle
men heller bring a few boxs of candy
willi the cigars.
Among the candidates present, we
noticed John Ilund, W. C. Simpson,
Ed. Hepp. .1. W. and John J. Hyatt,
Wade lleiToii, Frank L. Xordhnn,
L. Iliihliiird. J. W. Phillips. Prot
.1. F. Dodcrcr. Ed J. Bcrnwick, Geo.
W. Mi'Cun. S. ,T. Smith. W. J. Bern-.
George P. Watkins. J. A. Stump. C.
of the volley.
Still another fine feature is the
stdendid school, which for four years
has been ably conflicted hy Miss Re
liecea Coffin.
Hondale is a sure winner and new
people are going there all tha tmie.
i
