The City Council Wednesday night turned the Fourth of July celebration over to the Moose. The history of the past two weeks' worrying over the Splash is:
Briefly stated, it was proposed that we hold a celebration on or around July 4th. A committee was appointed, and after considering the matter in a more or less hurried
manner, reported "nothing doing." They gave as their reasons that Aberdeen could not celebrate under the existing conditions.
Stripped of verbiage and hypothetical excuses this means, that this City and the surrounding country is so sodden and sunk in iniquity that unless we "open 'er
up" it is useless to try to do anything. It means that unless whisky is sold, gambling rampant, and prostitution shamelessly indulged in, that nothing can be accomp
lished here. By the pink-toed prophet, we believe that this is a lie, also we believe that it is the nastiest slap in the face decent people of this town ever had handed to
them. With the changed conditions of affairs in this city, the make-up of the committee was top-heavy and unfortunate, and did not represent by a very large and grow
ing majority the sentiment of our people. A large and representative committee can easily be formed which can carry a celebration to a successful finish. Why not have
this kind on the committee: Tom BJyth, A. C. Gaillac, P. A. Bertrand, W. C. Mumaw, J. S. Waugh, Geo. J. Wolff, E. A. Morck, W. J. Patterson, S. W. Johnston, M. R.
Jones, R. E. Edwards, C. T. Scurry, Mayor Phillips, C. Holmer, and a host of others whose names do not occur to us at this writing? There's a happy medium in all
things. This could be maintained; there's no use in being so nice that one becomes positively nasty, nor need we walk so straight up that we fall over backwards. People
in the front of affairs are supposed to be blessed with a reasonable amount of common sense, but for any man or number of men to say that a successful celebration can
not be accomplished without this fair city wallowing in the slime and muck of positive and wilful wrongdoing is in our opinion blatant humbug, and quite probably a
deliberate twisting of facts to accomplish certain nefarious ends, and throw discredit on a saloonless city. Leaders of Aberdeen, get together and let us have a royal good
and decent time; one that will be a credit to the city and the thousands of people who will visit us.
THIRTIETH YEAR
PROSPERITY
IS HERE FOR
KEEPS NO W
Lumber Journals of Seattle and Minneapolis Find
Common Ground in Commenting on
Conditions
GOOD TIMES ARE NOT PASSING FLURRY
Shortage of Freight Equipment of Railways Means
Placing of Large Orders for Cars, Largely
Wooden
A period of prosperity is being en
tered upon, and it is to last four or
five years for the lumber industry,
According to such standard publica
tions as the West Coast Lumberman
of Seattle and the Mississippi Valley
Lumberman of Minneapolis, Minn. In
their current issues each y deals edi
torally with the question.
"Gail Marine, sales manager of the
Schwager-Nettleton mills, Seattle,"
says the West Coast Lumberman, "has
just returned from a five weeks' trip
to the Middle West. Mr. Marine went
as far as Chicago, and visited Kansas
City and St. Louis and other points in
that territory, as well as many others
"between there and the Coast.
"Mr. Marine on his return said that
he never saw such good conditions on
the whole as prevail in the Middle
West territory, in which Pacific Coast
lumber finds its best demands. For
Instance, he found, that in such terri--
tory as Colorado and Wyoming, where
much depends upon sheep raising, the
sheep men are obtaining record break
ing prices. Mr. Marine found a very
optimistic feeling everywhere; in fact,
he said he didn't find anybody who
was not an optimist.
No Mere Flurry.
"Another feature of the situation
hack there, he said, is that most busi
ness people do not consider the pres
ent prosperity a mere flurry, but be
lieve that it will last for four or five
years. Mr. Marine made the interest
ing statement that owing to the great
demand for steel and other products
needed in car construction, big car fac
tories are working very short time, but
that the shortage and high prices
of steel and the inability to obtain
deliveries for many months, are caus
ing car manufacturers to look once
more with favor upon wood. He said
that it would not surprise him at all
if a very lage number of the cars built
during the next year or so will have
a much greater percentage of wood
than would be the case If conditions
were normal."
The Mississippi Valley Lumberman
5 NEW TEACHERS
IN SCHOOL HERE
Board Accepts Resigna
tions of Six In
structors.
■ New teachers were appointed by the
Aberdeen board of education, at Tues
day night's meeting, as follows: Miss
Ruth Pearson and Miss Calla Van
Kleave, both of Cosmopolis; Miss An
nabelle Noble, of Centralia; Miss
Margaret Kress, of Lewiston, Idaho;
and Miss Lydian Bush, of Sparta,
Wisconsin. Miss Bush will have
charge of tlie high school Latin de
partment while the others will hold
grade positions. They will take the
places of these instructors who have
resigned: Miss Mollie Burnett, of the
high school; Miss Hulda Anderson,
Miss Blanch Kleeb and Mips Florence
Semmens, of the Franklin school;
Miss Mable Luby, of the Stevens
school; and Miss Carol Berkey, of
the Samuel Benn school.
A HUMILIATING SPECTACLE AND A WAY OUT
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
says:
"The immense and growing railway
traffic of the country coupled with a
shortage of freight cars due to the
inactivity of the railways in car build
ing during recent years has developed
such a shortage of equipment that
there is at present a rush to provide
for both the present and the future.
Railway* Mutt Use Lumber.
"While there has been a tendency of
late to turn more to the use of steel
for the construction of both freight
'and passenger cars, the high price of
steel products has determined the rail
ways to use a larger proportion of lum
ber, especially in the building of
freight cars, and the lumber manufac
turers of the country are reaping some
thing of a harvest. They need it, for
the demand for lumber from this, the
greatest source of trade for them, has
been woefully lacking for several
years.
"One day last week a southern rail
road made contracts for more than
three thousand cars which will re
quire over fourteen million feet of
lumber in their construction. During
the past four weeks contracts have
been placed with western mills for
seventy-five million feet of lumber,
one-third of which is high priced car
material. The Great Northern rail
way lias placed an order with a Port
land company for the construction of
five hundred freight cars which will
require about three million feet of
lumber; and a number of other roads
are, or soon will be, in the market
for equipment of this character.
"This is the cream of the trade for
the lumber manufacturers. It calls
for a high grade of material and it
can be manufactured and sold in large
quantities. Ordinarily, in normal times
the railroads take as much as, or
more lumber than, any other single in
dustry. But times have been far from
normal in recent years, and the lum
bermen have had to depend almost
altogether on the yard trade for busi
ness. With the railways back in the
market, their chief troubles will be
over."
Census of Schools
Here Is as High as
1915; Maybe Higher
A school census for Aberdeen as
high as, and possibly higher than, last
year's is confidently expected by E.
il. Crary, secretary of the local board
of education. The South Aberdeen
canvas shows a gain, 554 this year
against 510 in 1915. It is requested
that notification be sent the school
board by anyone who knows of fam
ilies overlooked by the census enum
erators, as the name of each child of
school age, 5 to-21 years, means about
$10 in state funds for this school dis
trict.
A seventh grade will be placed in
the Stevens school, South Aberdeen,
to relieve crowded conditions at the
Franklin school. Rules adopted for
the awarding of the Weatherwax
scholarship prize of $100 provide that
contesting student must have been
three years a pupil at the local high
school. Phipps & Watson, Tom Bo
gle and Kelly Bros, each were given
wood contracts.
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1916.
TO START ON
POSTOFFICE
IN FEW DAYS
Contractor Hendrickson
Here to Arrange for
Work
John Hendrickson of Hendrickson
& Co., Seattle, who have the contract
for constructing Aberdeen's new post
office, says work will start on the
structure in a week or ten days. Hen
drickson was in the city this week.
By the contract, 'the postoffice must
be completed by July 15, 1917.
The first story will be of granite,
the upper half of the building will be
faced with red brick, and lobby floor
and base boards will be of marble.
Whether brick manufactured near Che
halis or coming from California shall
be used depends upon price.
A Seattle firm lias secured the sub
contract for wiring and a Tacoma
firm for plumbing. Postmaster John
J. Carney has taken up with Hen
drickson the matter of changing the
specifications to allow of installing a
circular door on the west front of the
building instead of swinging doors,
which would be hit in winter by full
force of southwest and northwest
gales, to the discomfort of postoffice
employes and public alike, and TTen
drickson believes the federal authori
ties will permit the change to be made.
For the quarter ending March 31
of this year, local postoffice receipts
show increase of nearly 50 per cent
over the same quarter in 1015 —$8,186-
.10 against 5.547.52, or a gain of $2,-
638.28. A revival in business condi
tions is clearly indicated by the fig
ures.
28 MILLION FEET
OF LUMBER SENT
BY SEA IN APRIL
A total of 28.760,000 feet of lumber
made the sea shipments from Grays
Harbor in April, the best record since
June of last year. It still, however,
is way below the mark that would be
reached were it not for the European
war and scarcity of vessels. There
should be 40,000,000 feet of lumber
going out monthly by water, now.
REVOKING HIS LICENSE.
ARSENIC AS BAD
AS STRYCHNINE
IN LAST RESULT
STATE HEALTH BOARD USES
FIGURE FOR DEADLY
COMPARISON
Man Intelligently Fights Off Tubercu
losis Only to Fall Victim to
Typhoid
If we found a man who very rigidly
avoided eating or drinking anything
that contained strychnine, but who
was careless with regard to material
containing arsenic, and who deliber
ately ate material that he knew con
tained arsenic and died therefrom, we
would say he was crazy, and yet, says
a press bulletin of the Washington
state board of health, it would seem
that we occasionally, at least, find
people who take a similar course with
regard to the protection of their health.
An illustration in this very line has
recently been brought home to us.
A young man had carefully read and
studied the question of prevention of
tuberculosis. Some of his family had
had this disease in years gone by,
although he showed no evidence of it.
However, as a matter of precaution,
he bought a small ranch, a neat cot
tage with a sleeping porch, and relig
iously occupied this open air sleeping
apartment, realizing that such precau
tions would, in all probability, pro
tect him from developing tuberculo
sis.
He provided for his house a good
well. In providing this well he prob
ably considered the esthetic side of
the question more than the health
side, for during the last winter his
well pump became frozen, and with
out considering for a moment the dan
gers to which he was exposing him
self and family, he proceeded to se
cure his water for domestic purposes
from a small stream on the banks of
which he knew were many sources of
contamination: He also knew that at
a point one-fourth of a mile above
his residence a small sewer emptied
into this stream.
As a result of such negligence (tak
ing arsenic and avoiding stychnlne.
as it were), he contracted typhoid
fever and die, and yet we do not
say that he was insane.
"KATTI-KORNER"
The Northwest Supply Company has
moved to more commodious quarters
diagonally across the street from their
old location.
—DeMar in Philadelphia Record#
NEW SCALES
AT DEPOT TO
AID SHIPPER
Lumber Now Won't
Soak Up Weight Be
fore Weighing
Aberdeen's platform scales were
placed in commission last Saturday
at the Union depot, after thorough
examination by State Scale Inspector
G. H. Kaiser. They will weigh 300,-
000 pouhds of freight. The installa
tion of the scales will prove a boon
to local shippers, particularly of lum
ber. Cars previously had been weigh
ed at Centralia, and quite a bit of
moisture can be picked up by the lum
ber in the run between the two cit
ies.
The scales put In at the Aberdeen
Union depot will be used jointly by
the 0.-W., Northern Pacific and Mil
waukee lines. Hoquiam too, now has
track scales, the Northern Pacific
having moved its scales from Aber
deen Junction for the use jointly of
the three lines. The scales at Cos
mopolis are retained by the three rail
ways, but they, like the Aberdeen
Junction apparatus, have proved too
far from the general Grays Harbor
shipping points, to be of much use.
Reason Is Unhinged
By Brooding Over
European Conflict
Asetl Talien, liis reason overturned I
by brooding over the European war
and by more personal troubles con- :
neeted with business affairs, was ad
judged insane Wednesday, after ap
pearance in the superior court at
Montesano. Relatives of the unfor
tunate man have arranged for his
care at a private sanitarium. Tahan
is a brother-in-law of C. A. Bitar, Ho
quiam merchant.
NORTON IS BACK
Joe Norton, brought back Monday
by Sheriff Schelle Matthews from
Oklahoma City, Okla., will be tried on
a jail breaking charge Instead of for
robbing the Northern Pacific depot at
Montesano.
HOT DEBATE
O VER PA VING
OF STREETS
Property Owners and Residents of Second Street
Mix in City Council Chambers Over
Improvement
SCHMIDT RETAINED AS CHIEF OF POLICE
John Lowery Gets Fear's Job as Street Superin
tendent, and A. J. Grant Is President
of Council
Resolution providing for the pav
ing of West Second street was held
up by the. council, at Wednesday
night's session, for another week, fol
lowing protests against the improve
ment and warm arguments in favor of
it, set forth by property owners and
residents of that thoroughfare. A pe
tition asking for paving of West Hume
street from Washington to Garfield
street, a stretch of three blocks, was
returned to petitioners with recom
mendation that they include all the
way to K street in the improvement.
The Splash celebration was turned
over to the local lodge of Moose.
Mayor J. M. Phillips retained R. J.
Schmidt as chief of police; appointed
John Lowery, driver of the street
sprinkler for some years, as street
superintendent, vice J. E. Fear; and
held up the water superintendent ap
pointment another week.
A. J. Grant was declared elected as
president of the council, City Attorney
A. E. Cross rendering opinion that
the mayor had the right to decide the
tie between Grant and A. S. Brecht.
Long Debate Over Street
These were Important points cover
ed in a three hours' session of the
council this week. The debate over
the West Second street improvement
consumed half of the session. Attor
ney P. W. Loomis presented the case
for 28 protestants, while P. A. Powell,
Andrew Reid and others represented
resident owners who wanted the im
provement put through. Estimate of
City Engineer L. D. Kelsey gave $320
as cost to each 50x150 foot lot, for as
phalt and $280 for concrete. Assess
ed valuation of property affected is
$18,550.
Warehousing of lumber and other
supplies for the Wiuhkah water pro
ject was brought up by the city engi
neer, who favored leasing a site 100
124 YEARS SINCE
GRAY SAILED HIS I
SHIP TO HARBOR
Last Sunday was the 124 th anniver
versary of the sailing into Grays Har
bor of Capt. Robert Gray. On May
7. 1792, he christened it Bullfinch Bay
—the name subsequently being chanc
ed in honor of the discover—but did
not land here, so far as all records
show. Five years ago a tablet of
bronze was placed by Grays Harbor
people at Lone Tree, by which point
the navigator is supposed to have
steered into the Harbor.
NO NEED OF GUARDS
An armed guard which has been
kept at the Aberdeen armory for sev
eral months, has been discontinued by
orders of Capt. H. A. Comeau, Co. G,
2nd Reg., N. G. W., due, it is believ
ed, to a clearing of the long impend
ing trouble with Germany.
LISTER TO BE GUEST
Governor Ernest Lister will be the
guest of the evening and the main
speaker, Monday, May 22, at a ban
quet to be given by the Brotherhood
of the First Methodist church. An
Interesting program Is being prepared
for the occasion.
VOLUME 3
feet west of M and River streets, cost
of building to be $500, and rent $50
a year.
Warrants were ordered drawn for
payment of A. R. Elchler's first con
tract on the West bridge, all repair
work, totalling $4,548.91. The contract
has been assigned to the Hayes &
Hayes Bank. There still is due the
contractor $14,000 on the second con
tract, construction work, and $4,500.
on force account. The total cost of
the bridge, including $25,000 paid to
A. J. West for the old toll structure
will be $57,110.
Bids for Wishkah Road
Bids on the Wishkah road construc
tion, over the route dedicated by Mrs.
Jean B. Stewart, were received from
the Standard Transfer company, Carl
Gylling and August Wallin. Bids were
referred a week to the street commit
tee. J
W. H. Johnson was granted privi
lege of living in the house owned by
the city near the Charley creek In
take of the water system, Johnson
being requiring in return to take care
of the dam.
In accepting the Moose lodge's offer
to handle the 1916 Splash, Mayor
Phillips made it clear to Secretary
O. T. Hermans of that order that any
carnival company brought to the city
will be required to conform to all or
dinances governing games of chance
and general conduct of amusements.
The police committee, on motion ot
Pista, will have supervision over the
Moose plans.
Other appointments to city offices
announced by the mayor included the
retention of Dr. J. B. Kinne as health
officer, and of the incumbent library
board: P. A. Bertrand, W. O. McCaw,
Mrs. W. B. Mack, Mrs. Jessie Irvine
and A. J. Morley; and of the incum
bent park board: C. E. Troutman, Mrs.
L. G. Humbargar and W. Irvine.
MELBOURNE GETS
PIONEERS' PICNIC
Annual Gathering of Old
Timers Will Be held
July 4
The annual picnic and meeting of
the Grays Harbor County Pioneers*
association will be held at Melbourne
July 4. The trustees of the associa
tion decided Monday to accept the in
vitation of Melbourne people who will
serve the hot coffee and some other
adjuncts to the spread.
At the July gathering, too, pioneers
will be asked to confirm new mem
bership rules adopted by the trustees,
blowing membership to all who came
to Washington before it became a
state. There will be four classes of
members: the first, those who set
tled here between 1850 and 1860; sec
ond, between 1860 and 1870. and so
on. The officers of the association
have endorsed this plan. The pro
gram for the July 5 picnic will ba
announced later.
Don't worry—read TT»e Herald; It
costs you only $1.60 a year.
NUMBER 32
