DAY, MAY 24TH
ON
rirv
ri
SOUTH BUSINESS
Auditor, County 1-1-14
VOL XXXIII NO 5
WAUSEON, OHIO FBIHAY, MAY 12; 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
KNIGHT OF PYTHIAS GALA
COUNTY
i :
GOUHTY PICHIC
School of Fulton County at the Fair
C rounds Saturday May 13th... Ad
drM by Governor Willia Big Pic
nic Dinner Athletic ConteaU.
The county and district school sup
erintendents; teachers, pupils and pa
rents of the entire county will meet
tomorrow. Saturday May 13th, for a
big school rally and picnic which will
mark the close of the school year in
the rural schools of the county.
Everybody Is urged to come to the
Fulton county fair Grounds, to
morrow and not to forget to bring
well filled baskets for their will un
doubtedly be an appetite sharpened
and keen, with every individual pres
ent. Governor Willis will be present and
address the meeting at one o'clock,
he is expected to arrive in Wauseon
Friday1 evening. This will be a splen
did opportunity to hear the Governor
and his addresses are all worth hear
in it During the forenoon hours
thre will be several three inning
base ball games between teams from
township schools and village schools;
h4 two teams making the best show
ing at the forenoon games will play
a ''real game" in the afternoon and
may the best wint
Athletic games consisting of run
ning races for boys, baseball throw
MANUFACTURING CITY
Of interest to the citizens of Wau
seon and of all Fulton county is the
recent report of 'the Federal Census
Bureau on the manufacturing Inter
ests in Toledo.
The population of Toledo on July
1st 1914 was estimated at 184,000.
For the year 1914 there were 713
manufacturing establishments in the
city, representing a capital invest
ed of 191,101,000. 31881 persons
were engaged in manufactures and
salaries and wages paid during the
year amounted to $23,677,000. It
took 53369 horsepower of motive force
to run the machinery in these factor
ies; $70,494,000 worth of materials
were used and the products were val
ued at $115,049,000.
CORN CONTEST
Revitrion of Rules Governing Corn
Growing Contests Reasons for
Making Changes June 15th The
Limit for Entries.
for girls, potatoe races, slow bicycle
races and tug-of-war will fill the
time aftef dinner. Music will be
furnished by
Delta. This
To Whom This May Concern:
Rule -8 of the Corn Growing Rules
ha been revised to read as follows:
"The contestant shall assist in do
ing or shall do all the work on the
acre, such as planning, manuring, fer
tilizing, plowing, preparing the seed
bed, and all the other work up to and
including, the planting; but from the
time the corn is planted, up until the
time of the husking, the contestant
the Juvenile Band of shall do all the work on the acre. The
band is composed of contestant) may! have assistance in
twenty or more pieces and it has a
reputation for discoursing good mu
sic. There will be no entrance fees,
but a small charge will be made for
seats in- the grand stand, the proceeds
to cover the cost of advertising and
other incidental expenses.
This picnic" Is for everybody and
It is earnestly hoped that as many
as possibly can will improve the op
portunity for this general get-to-geth-r
of the county.
HEAVY FIRETOSS
Last Tuesday afternoon a spark
from the chimney on the residence
f Peter Merillat of Franklin town
ship ignited the roof and before the
(Ire so started could be controlled the
house, barn, summer kitchen, house
hold goods and feed were all consum
ed. The total loss will aggregate
according to conservative estimates
over $5000. To meet this loss the
property destroyed was covered by
Insurance In the Ohio Farmer's Ins
urance Company to the amount of
$2G00.
TO WOMEN READERS
husking the corn."
The reasons for the changing of
this rule are:
First: Not many farmers can af
ford to give an exclusive acre of soil
within a given field for corn to be
worked in special mauner in the contest.
Second: Most .boys assist in the
work of the entire corn crop of the
farm and do not have opportunity to
prepare an acre exclusively,
Third: It is a
have some one
single acre of soil for corn separate
and apart from the rest of the land
planted in corn.
THE BIG E
Plans and Prospects for a Big Day
in Wauseon M,ay 24th Pythians
to the Number of Eight Hundred
Expected to Visit Wauseon Visit-
Tea ma and Lodges.
ing
Wauseon Lodge No. 156 through
its various committees are busv these
days perfecting the plans and com
pleting tne preparations for the big
Pythian Review on May 24th. The
indications now are that on the af
ternoon and evening of Wednesday
May 24th there will be from six to
eight hundred visitors in Wauseon.
Lodges from all the surrounding dis
trict have signified their intention of
being represented by a good sized
delegation. The reasons for the large
large attendance anticipated are sev
eral; in the first place the .Page Rank
Team of the Wauseon Lodge has plac
ed Wauseon on the map of Pythian
ism in this section by their splendid
work in presenting the dramatization
of the classic story of Damon and
Pythias. Some seventy members
of Wauseon Lodge were present in
Bowling Green last Friday evening
when the Wauseon Team conferred
the First Rank of Pythianism upon
sixteen candidates in Kenneth Lodge
of that city. Members of Bowling
Green and also members of Weston
Lodge who were present, were ar
dent in their praise of the splendid
work of the team, one brother had
come from Sycamore to Bowling
Green a didtance of forty-five miles
for the express purpose of witnessing
the work of the Wauseon team; he
expresed himself as feeling well re
paid for his trip. The record made
by the team at Bowling Green is
only typical of the record they have
made in other places where they have
put on the work. There are many
who will come for the purpose of see
ing again the beautiful work of the
team. Other attractions are ampli
fied Third Rank work which will be
NEW PIANO STORE
Mr. George Heath well and favor
ably known throughout Northwest
ern Ohio as an instructor in music,
a tuner and a dealer in pianos, will
open a piano store in Wauseon next
Monday May 15th in the South room
of the Pythian building. Mr. Heath
has been in the piano business for
the past thirty-five years and has
gained the confidence of the people
of Wauseon and vicinity as a musi
cian and a judge of musical nstru
ments. He will open with a full
line of Straube and Hammond pianos
and piano players. Mr. H. Walther,
a special representative from the fac
tory of Straube and Hammond will
assist Mr. Heath in conducting a spec
ial month Piano Sale.
Mull and Weber of Archbold the
Victims of Yeggmen Automobile
Taken From Wauseon But Aband
oned at Delta.
Archbold was startled in the early
hours of the morning last Saturday
by a rather daring burglary.
The safe in the City Drug Store
was blown at about two o'clock in
the morning and a number of vatch-
es and rings belonging to the firm
of Mull & Weber who occupy a por
tion of the store were taken and up
to the present time have not been
heard from. The estimated value
of the goods taken is $450.00. De-
RETREAT
The Famous - Retreat of- Nanoleon's
Grand Army From Moscow Plun
der That Never Reached Paris
Wide Gates to Enter, Narrow to
Go Out of.
By Earl M. Wood
Moscow was not long to remain the
undisputed war prize of the French,
for tne great fire broke out to chal
lenge the conquerer of the city. The
origin of the fire will always be a
mystery. The Russians, of course,
claimed that they made the heroic
sacrifice of abandoning their city to
the flames rather than to an alien
conqueror. But with criminals and
drunkards roaming the streets, and
the city being given up to robbery
and debauchery, it was no surprise
that the conflagration started and
spread. In very few hours the great
er part of the city was in flames (for
the buildings were mostly wooden),
and in spite of the troops gallant and
desperate efforts to check it, about
seven thousand buildings were de
stroyed. The great hospitals, filled
with sick, infirm and wounded pa
tients were consumed along with the
churches, palaces and other beautiful
edifices of the town. . Napoleon was
forced to flee before the flames to a
villa in the suburbs of Moscow, and
from there he watched the fire con
sume his greatest prize of victorv.
After the flames had been checked,
there were still enough buildings left
stanajng to comfortably (house his
PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS
The Wauseon Board of Education
at their meeting on Wednesday even
ing, May '3rd, elected the following
teachers for the Public Schools of
Wauseon for the school year 1916-'17.
Superintendent, M. L. Altstetter;
High School Principal, Mr. Sechrist;
Teachers, Miss Wolcott, Midls Cos-
telo and Miss Drennan. Miss Pfir-t
man, of Defiance was elected to teach
Latin and Miss Rose Biery of Chi
cago University to take charge of
the department of Domestic Science
and teach other science branches.
The board have yet to secure one
man teacher and a manual training
teacher to complete the High School
Faculty also a supervisor of Music
in place of professor Tubbs who will
not teach in thei Wauseon schools;
next year.
Grade teachers elected were: Mrs.
Mrs. Bartlett, Howard McClarren, Miss
rioaglm, Miss Simpson, Miss Miller,
Mis Brown Miss Funk and Miss Fish-
There remains one more teacher
to be secured for the grade schools.
mm WELCOME
Given Pastor of Congregational
Church Visiting Pastors Conduct
i
Recognition Service Interesting
Program Preceded by Good Supper,
mir tin hv tha Ttnwlincr firpen t.P.nm
difficult matter to , second Rank work exemplified by the !
prepare a Swanton and Delta Lodees and drill
by the famous D. O. K. K.. cham
pion Prize Drill Team of Toledo
There will be present the Grand Chan
celor Commander and the Grand
scriptions are given of three men who
glary. A Ford auto that was taken troops, but there were supplies to last
from the garage of Mr. W. Guilford nlv ?, few weeks, and when in Octo
in Wauseon some time Friday night bfr' the, reorganized Russian army
is supposed to have been utilized by , . u" """i
the burglars in accomplishing their P.oleon orderedthe retreat in a Rus
work; the auto was found Saturday Slan. winter which was the greatest
morning in Delta where it had evi- uuiir1 v1-?" m uw-y.
k..n .i,rj The mighty army, which, only
uv.il v jr . uca uvuuuuiiwu, l ,, ,- , , , . , -
The night operate at Archbold "7J1 TJ'
telephone exchange discovered that l"Z "a?
, . . . -l I uwn aauiv ICUUtCU XXI o LI CilH. LLX 2LI1U
something wrong was going on ana nutnbers ' tartfiH
Fourth K ,Some work before plant
ing is often too heavy for a boy to do v r f pn.fg A Koala nf Ohio.
1(in.t,it . , Supreme Lodge officers and many
Fifth:. There seems to be a gen- others nigh up in the woric and
erai oemana among tne iarmers for , practice of Pythianism.
called up several of the citizens,
among them Mr- H. W. Stotzer who
coming to his store to see if every
thing was right there met two men
with bundles who responded to his
good morning and passed on. A
Ford auto was parked In front of
the residence of Ollie Lauber and he
recross - its frontier: The soldiers.
who had fared well in the sharing of
the plunder Refused to leave it be
hind, and when there were not enough
norses to pull the army wagons con
taining tne vast supplies of rare
wines, costly furs, beautiful gowns,
a change in the rules owing to the
foregoing reasons.
Sixth: Boys and Girls enter the
Corn Growing Contest up to and in
Elaborate preparations in the way
of decorations, special lighting and
other arrangements for the entertain
ment of both the guests and towns
tne residence 01 u u rich uniform, gold and silver, many
h?Vm; HDTtwn 1 5hSS of the men gulled the wagons them
of a window saw two men with bun- gel wha m weress0 foolisn
aies get into tne auto nu as to pae their boofy in wheeibarrowS
- ana start to push it back to Fans.
The anenfirs office at wauseon I Onpmi jfntnsnf thn Rnaainn trn.
was nottfced ana deputy snerra eral-in-chief. soon overtook Nannlenn
ment in this issue of the Tirbune con
in today's issue of the Tribune con
tains important suggestions to the
mother about clothing for her small
children, and practical hints to young
ladies about making their summer
lingerie. Turn to it now.
eluding June 15th, if they have done Be0Die are m pr0Cess and the Order : Boone secured descriptions of men on the road and harrassed him at
all the work, or have assisted in do- f the Kniirhts of Pvthias will cer-!and property stolen which were sent every step Fierce bands of Cos-
- " .... ' nut thynnnh oil thQ flllrTnllTIllTlir IriillTI I 1 il 1" . . a l x i
i h.s. a uus bin vsuEi. i& viaw u m. w was v wv uuf-Kw ii i intj i inn ii aw rnnnn Tna
hii W III '-' - . v. viav -r ul uvn bilk.
foieao rP Grand Army night and day, picking
ing all the work, up to and including give Wauseon and all who
the rilanf in rv avis! Vouta 4ama aM 4- L. v . . ... v i
Mr. Bottomles fashion depart- the planting, and have done all the COme to town a great day on Wed-Iy ?ur427fffSfoon"
work after the nlantinsr has been
done. -J.
R. CLARKE,
Director of Junior Contests.
For lameness apply Hanford's Balsam.
nesday May 24th.
LACE CURTAINS.
- I am prepared to laundry all kinds
of lace curtains. Prices reasonable
Your patronage solicited. Mrs. B. P.
Omlor. 62-tf
lice thOUgnt mat iney recogmzea me 0ff the Rtrao-trlprs? pvp ar1 nnH
men by the descriptions hut -up to bridge had to be fought for; and
this time none ol them have been ap- very s00n m the mad rush for safe.
prehended. 4 ty, wagons cannons and booty were
abandoned. : Starvation began to
Tribune Advertising Gets the Best stare the Emperor in the face. His
Results.
USE McCALL DRESS PATTERNS
May Days Delightfully Refreshing
Expressing Beauty and Style
Summer Ooats
Suits
and
yilliiiery
All Styles are not beautiful, but each Season there are a number of
fashions designed and produced to express beauty and good taste.
These styles have been sought out by us and in
troduced here for women who appreciate an atmos
phere of exquisite loveliness about their dress.
Further these styles express the latest and
smartest in Fashions, but first of all they express
beauty and good taste.
May Fabric Fashions
Dainty Summer Dresses Easily Made
at Home.
Interesting and Attractive are
These Several Models '
Splendid BEAUTY and STYLE most readily
attained in making your Fabric selections over our
counters. We have, as stated before, a very large and
choicy assemblage from which you can make pleasing selections and develop the most charming Costumes,
Dresses, Blouses or Skirts, featuring Foulards, Tub Silks, Crepe de Chine, Marquisettes, Voiles Linens, and
Sport Cloth.
4m
For Bportt W.w
McCall Pattern. No. 7iS-7iSt, t
al th. many ntw dciigm for Juna
An Apron Effect in Net
McCall Patterns Nos. 7177-7J79. two
ol the many new designs for June
May Special Blouse Sale
$1.13
Including this season's latest creations in white
and fancy voiles and organdies. Stylish and
beautiful.
May Special House Dress Sale
Si.OO
Summer Wash Dresses made up in the best of
Percale and Gingham, sized from 34 to 52.
Everyone beautifully styled.
n
terriers
Rdsl'irocf
Qorsete
Quality First, Prices are an incident only Afterwards
Quality and Our Prices, are Not Comparative Features
The Spencer-Edgar-Vollmer Go.
Watiseon'8 Exclusive Dry Goods Store
I horses became too weak to pull their
loads and dropped in their traces
J his men were dying for lack of food
land warm clothing. i locks of vul
Itures and packs of wolves joined in
I the pursuit, preying on those who
were so unfortunate as to fail. Sleet
and snow pounded the ranks of the
brand Army mercilessly. The rear
guard stripped the bodies of all who
fell for any warm garments they
might have worn. The women and
children who had accompanied the
army on the march, froze to death
in large numbers.
Marshal Ney, who had won from
the Emperor the title of Prince of
the Moskova. bravely led the rear
guard in their attempts to cover the
retreat of the main army. Time and
again, the Russians were hurled back
and broken by this "bravest of the
brave." When the Uimperor reached
the Beresma Eiver, he was compel-
I led to erect bridges, and these were
so crowded with the mass of soldiers
struggling "to escape, that one snap
Iped beneath its burden and filled the
icy waters with its victims. Anotn
er bridge was destroyed by the
French long before the mam army
had crossed, the thousands ot troops
were helplessly marooned and ma
rooned and massacred by the Cos
sacks.
Fearing to acknowledge his defeat
to Europe, Napoleon left his troops
and fled alone to Dresden. The
Prince of the Moskova stubbornly
backed over the Niemen and was the
last man to quit Russian soil. King
Murat of Naples ' forsook the army
to fly back to his throne, and Prince
Eugene, Viceroy of Italy took com
mand and successfully led the trag
ments of the lirand Army beyond
the reach of the Muscovite wrath
630,000 men had entered Russia,
60.000 returned. Had not the Em
pire of the Czars made good the
boast that the gates of Russia are
wide to those who enter, but narrow
to those who go out?
MRS. MARTHA McCLARREN
Passed from this life at her home
on East Legrgett street Monday May
8th, after four years of declining
health, the last two of which she
was almost helpless. Funeral ser
vices were held in the First Christ
ian church, Wednesday at 2 o'clock
and burial made in the Wauseon
cemetery. Rev. J. A. Wharton of
ficiated.
Mrs. McClarren was born in Sum
mit county Ohio. August 26th. 1851
She came to this county with her pa
rents when a small child, and has
since lived in or' near Wauseon with
the exception of five years; one year
was spent in Michigan and lour in
Toledo. -
She was married to Reason Mc
Clarren November 3rd, 1870. The
husband survives her, also one daugh
ter. Eva. and one adopted daughter.
one brother and seven grandchildren,
Three of her children died in in
fancy and one daughter, Grace,
voune womanhood.
The deceased was a member of the
Maccabees. She was well knwon in
Fulton county where she had a host
of friends. She was a true, good
wife and mother. Death came as
a relief to her suffering.
CARD OF THANKS
We wish to express our sincere
thanks to the many friends and
neighbors who helped us by their
kind deeds and words during the long
illness of our wife and mother and
as well for the ministries to us, the
flowers, the manv expressions of sym
pathy and those who assisted in the
funeral services at the death and
burial of our loved one.
and Family.
I now have in my ware rooms four
car loads of buggies for the spring
trade. These are up to date in style
and quality. Call and see me. 1 posi
tively will not be undersold on the
same class of vehicles.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
Enthusiasm and cordiality marked'
the service held at the Congregational
church last Monday evemng, for the
purpose of presenting to the associa
tion of Congregational churches and
ministers of Toledo and vicinity, the
new pastor, Rev. Walter C. Schafer.
A fine supper, prepared by the
ladies society was served to a large
company ot guests and members of
the church at six o'clock.
The formal service of recognition
began at 7:30 o clock. Key. A. H.
liiby, of Park church, Toledo, presid
ing.
Special music by Miss Dudley, Miss
Hartman and a quartette consisting
of Mesdames Lyon, Edgar, Guilford
and Miss Knapp was splendidly ren
dered at the opening ot the service.
Devotional service was conducted by
Rev. C. S. Bucher, of Lima, and the
sermon, an exposition of Christianity
as appealling to the greatest men
in all ages, was preached by Rev. L.
J. Luethi, of the Second church, To
ledo, counselling the pastor to a
studious and prayerful ministry and
to a life of congenial and active fellow
ship with men. Rev. R. T. Boyd,
Plymouth church, Toledo, gave the
"charge to the pastor". In his char
acteristically genial and whole-hearted
manner. Dr. E. B. Allen, of To
ledo, gave "the charge to the church."
Cordial welcome to the fellowship of
the surrounding Congregational
churches was extended by the mod
erator, Rev. A. B. Eby, for many
years a friend of Mr. Schafer's, and
to the Wauseon . churches by Rev.
J. A. Wharton of the Christian
church. The pastor's father-in-law,
Rev. Charles H. Lemmon, of New Lon
don, Ohio, offered the prayer of re
cognition asking the Divine blessing
upon the new relationship ot pastor
and people. ' After the -singing of
the hymn f f elowsfclip, "Blest Be
The Tie That Binds," Rev. Mr. Schaf
er pronounced the benediction.
P RitE SJT I G E
When a check is received bearing
the name, "First National Bank", it
carries with it prestige and the re
cipient knows the maker of the check
has sound banking connections.
In offering the services of this bank,
we are placing at your disposal bank
ing relations that must reflect to your
li auvaniage in . an your Dusmess . Ml
I dealings, which is prestige. - I
I I 4 , -m. -w , m II
! Mrst (National Bank
"The BANK -BY-MAIL Bank"
Wauseon, - - - - Ohio
A FRIENDLY VISIT
Last Sunday seventy members of
the men's class of the Fayette Meth
odist Sunday1 School which is taught
by Professor Chase, visited the men's
I "now have on hand four car loads
jf buggies for the spring trade. I
make a specialty of the celebrated
jron and Eckhart buggies. L.all on
rne if in need of a buggy. I can please
vou both m quality and price.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
RESOLUTIONS OF SYMPATHY
The Grim Reaper has again enter
ed and darkened the home of one of
our brothers.
class of the Methodit church of Waus- -,oaaA h'o r ci,
eon taught by P. H Reighard. The ed over the dark river into the great
visitors joined their hosts m Sunday unknown beyond, . from which no
school and church services and fol- traveler has vet returned,
lowing the church service they were He was t(y our bereaved Brother a
served to a pot-luck dinner at which kind and indulgent parent and our
125 men sat down together, following brother wa8 to6 his arent, faitUul r
the dinner talks from the gueste and obedient anl loving, but the ties of
their hosts were enjoyed Mr. F. love and affection were broken and
H. Reighard acted as toastmaster darkness .came to this home aH it
T rfesJoi:. Ua. Zot CxxUs, must eventually come to alL ;
Messers Baldwin and Britsch repsond-, ReSOived. b Wauseon Lotee No.
w if j Y etteMCIas- w JndSjV56, Knights of Pythias, that we do
Wolf and Barber, Mayor Hoy, Mr. now and here UnT to our sorrowing.
Ives and others responded for the otw i , i, it
Wauseon class. Everybody present Uv,;.. f j i.
rKUg5 y fJy?d.the occasion andd b the 8Unshine break
the bonds of christian fellowshipbe- thou h th'e that haye darken.
tween the men of the towns of Fay- 'ed this home, and dispel the gloom
be strene'thened. The Wauseon
F. hearth stone of this now sad home. -
Be it further- Resolved: That the
keeper of records and seal of this
to
strengthened.
Methodist men's class plan
turn the visit in a few weeks. This
is a somewhat unique form' of "Sun-
.1 -1,. .! 1 I f i.1
oay visiung dui we are oi we opin- lod transmit a copy of these reso
lon that it is a very profitable form! lutfons to our reXied Brother.
f visiting and that more of the same
kind practiced generally throughout
our country would prove very bene-
hcal.
A. E. Harger,
Reas S. Campbell,.
C. E. Trory,
Committee.
FIRST BAND CONCERT
Weather permitting the Wauseon
Band will give the first open air con
cert of the season in the band stand,
next Thursday evening. Come in
to Wauseon Thursday night and if
you are already in Wauseon, come
out to hear some good band music.
I am prepared with a large stock of
hand made harness ready for the
Spring trade. Give me a call.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
BUGGIES! BUGGIES4
I wish to call the attention of pros
pective buggy buyers to the fact that
I am prepared to show the finest and
most up-to-date lot of buggies ever
brought to Fulton County. These
goods are bought for ; spot cash in
car load lots thus enling me to sell
as low as the lowest. I will not be
undersold on same class of goods. Call
on me before you buy.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
aaaNMi.Wji..j.ft '-WfcJPM w iimn. i JiiiiwiiiiiMiiiiiit,iHMii.jj,.)nii, xiMmtjimmwjjj u m i
'lll ill
I -
1
A-
v il
"Paint My House, Too"
The spirit of neighborhood improvement fills the
very air. The glad, bright colors of spring have
replaced the somber hues of winter. Grass is green
flowers are springing into glorious bloom. Nature
is providing a beautiful setting. Is your house in har
mony or do the fresh-looking surroundings only serve
to emphasize its dullness? Does it complete the picture
is it well painted?
Now's the time of all times to dress up your home in fresh, new
colors. The first essential in home improvement is good paint, arid
the paint that you can depend upon to be good is
VWMmmi LIQUID 'PAINT-
You take no chances, you know exactly what
the contents of every can of High Standard"
will do. Forty years of experience and count
less exposure tests have made this knowledge
definite. Chemical analysis of the raw mater
ials and thorough machine mixing insure a
uniform product.
You get in "High Standard" a paint that
works easier, and spreads farther than cheaper
paints a paint that hides better and protects
better the surface of your building a paint
that does not fade, that holds tight to the sur
face in perfectly protecting coats that fails
only by gradual wear and leaves a good surface
for repainting
It actually costs less to use this better paint and
get its perfect protection. It goes so much far
ther and it lasts to much longer on the building
that its use is true economy. Ask us for an
estimate on your paint requirements.
BEXGHAM, GUILFORD & COMPANY
WAUSEON, OHIO
I. - v"
