' oflfl IHU3L <1 <1 /f$
DX LI L\s3»
■IkVENTH YEAH. No. 47.
ORDINANCE NO 7%
I ordinance regulating and controlling
ise of water supplied by the town of
ilit*. Washington, fixing the rates the
iroviding penalties for tlie violation
■<»f. and repealing ordinance No. 50
led ian ordinance regulating and con
ng lhe use of water supplied by the
of Oroville. Washington, fixing the
thereon, providing penalties for the
tion thereof, and repealing all ordin
* in conflict therewith.) also repealing
am c No. ss. (entitled an ordinance
iding Section 7. Section 10 and Sec
-17 of ordinance No. 50 of the town of
Ille, Washington. fixing the rates
on. providing penalties for the viola
thereof. and repealing all ordinances
inflict therewith) and repealing all
ances and parts of ordinances in con
with this ordinance,
it ordained by tlie town council of
own of Oroville, Washington,
tionl. That application for permit
mnect any property with the town
r service must he made in writing to
luperintendent of the water depart -
by the owner of the property or his
u izt'cl agent, on a blank furnished by ,
aiperintendent of tlie water depart
, this form of application shall con
in agreement that the applicant will
times conformed to and be govern*
i i lie rules and regulations of the
• department of the town of Oroville
i statement of the purpose for wihch
in ter is to he used, the number and
of fixtures and the number of rooms
> building, the superintendent of wa
■r\ i- <• shall issue to each applicant
? application shall be granted, a per
il writing clearly setting forth the
■e granted, and plumbers and other
ns are prohibited from connecting
service pipes at the property line
such permit has been furnished by
roperty owner.
tion 2. —All service pipes from the
or from other service pipes to the
rty line (including service cocks to
aced one foot inside the curb line)
>e put in by the town, the cost of
i will he $« 10.00) ten dollars for 3-4
ap or less, all taps over 3-4 inch ac
iddition cost of installation must be
by the property owner, payable at
imp the application Is presented by
roperty owner and no water
>e furnished any property until all
barges have been paid to the town
irer.
ion 3. —When the property owner de
two or more service pipes on the
property, lie shall so state in his
a tion for permit and separate ser
)ipes will he run from a connection
made Inside the curb line, and stop
will be placed on each of the sepa
lervlces for which an additional tap
tee of ten dollars ($10.00) will he
ed. property owners will not be al
to connect the water services of
ent property together.
[ion 1. The property owner must put
d maintain at his own expense all
>ing within his premises and put in
cock, by which the water may be
nff within his premises for purposes
airs, and the town will not be liable
ny damages that occur within the
ses on account of defective pipes or
es.
ion s.—No extension of pipes or In
■ of fixtures shall be made within any
ses until a permit for the same shall
tallied from the superintendent of
■ater department, and any plumber
g any such extensions or putting in
onal fixtures without the owner of
roperty furnishing him such a per
lay be refused to do plumbing with
• town of Oroville. the plumber or
person making such extensions or
se of fixtures shall report to the
ntendent of the water department
i twenty-four hours of the comple
f the work, any increase of fixtures
lave been put in by him.
ion •*. —All service pipes shall be of
or galvanized Iron, and laid to a
of not less than four feet below the
ished grade of the street, or when
s have not been graded, not less
four fet below the surface of the
d. all connections shall he of lead
ron unions, no wipe joints on lead
ctlons.
:lon7. —The property and property
will be held responsible for the
•nt of all water rents, and changes
nership in the property will not re
the liability of the property for the
due. water rents at the established
will be charged against the property
the date on which it Is ordered turn
by the property owner, until the
>n which it is ordered turned off by
roperty owner, provided that if the
is ordered turned off between the
ind the fifteenth of any month, a
nonths rental will be charged, and If
Ml turned off between the fifteenth
• month and the first of the follow
lonth a full months rental will be
ed.
tion B.—Where water rents are not
within ten days after they become
i penalty of fifty cents will be charg
nd the water will be turned off at
urb as soon thereafter as possible,
n which case it will not he turned
aln until all charges have been paid
1 to the town treasurer, including a
e of sft cents for the turning on of
•ater Water rents shall become due
payable on the first day of each
very month at the rate hereinafter
led.
Ron 9.—No person will be allowed to
ih water to parties occupying other
ses without the written permission
e superintendent of the water de
lent. for the violation of this section
uperlntendent of the water depart
shall order the water turned off of
remises from which water was fur
l and shall not order or allow’ the
to bo turned on again until the wa
i furnished has been paid for at the
ir rate and one dollar f$ I.Oft) addl
charges have been paid for turning
’atcr off and on.
tion 10.—Where water Is allowed to
on account of leaking pipes or flx
or is used for irrigation purposes
'h an extent as to run off the prop
u form pools of water, or whenever
mncil deems It necessary for the pro
n of town Interests, the superinten
r»f the water department may put In
lor. and the collection of water rents
e made at meter rate. Provided that
icier larger than 3-4 inch will be
died by the town and only one meter
cb service, or the superintendent of
atcr service may shut off the water
t will not be turned on again until
actorv assurances have been given
the rules of the water department
•e complied with and all charges have
paid.
tion 11. In all cases where by this
iinre anv discretion is vested In the
in tendon t of the water department,
ctlons shall at all times be subject
■» control of the council,
tion 1?.- The town of Oroville by its
r officers shall have access to any
ill premises where water is furnished
c town for the purpose of inspecting
or fixtures, stop cocks and meter
must he loft accessible and the prop
owners are to refrain from covering
Hose connections may be put in
nwn sprinkling, the hours for lawn
garden sprinkling shall he as follows:
5 to 9 o’clock In the morning and
5 to 9 o’clock in the evening, during
months of April. May. June, July,
st and September, provided, howevei
the council may by a majority vote
of make special rules In regard to
murs or months that water is to he
for sprinkling purposes. Any person
ting this section or using water for
or garden sprinkling purposes at
• times shall he liable to have their
r shut off and the same not turned
on again until ordered by the council.
Section 13.—Where sill cocks are used
they shall be provided with a cock inside
the building for opening and closing the
same, where meters are used one 3-4 inch
will be furnished by the town, the property
owner to pay for putting in of the same
and a rental of ten cents a month shall
»>e charged and shall be payable monthly.
1 lie property owner must protect the meter
from freezing or other damage and will be
charged for all repairs made necessary by
the freezing of the meter or other damage
on account of negligence, the meter to re
main the property of the town.
Section 14.—Water for building purposes
will be furnished only on payment in ad
vance and upon the written estimate of
the manager or architect of the quantity
of brick, stone, concrete. plastering an
other material for which water is to he
used.
Section 16.—The water may be at any
time shut off from any premises upon a
reasonable notice for repairs, extensions
or other necessary purposes or for the
violation of any of the provisions of this
ordinance and persons supplied with wa
ter by the town are cautioned against tlie
danger of explosion or collapse. The town
will not be responsible for any damage
that may occur on account of the shutting
off of the water for any of the above men
tioned purposes.
Section 16. —No plumber or other person
will he allowed to make connection with
the town mains, or make alterations in
any conduit, pipe or other fixtures con
nected therewith, or to connect when they
have been disconnected, or turn off or on
any water on any premises without the
permission of the superintendent of the
water department.
Section 17. —While water is furnished
through a meter, if from any cause the
meter fails to register, the property owner
shall be charged for the average dally
consumption as shown by the meter for
the month previous; all motors and cement
block factories shall he supplied through
a meter and at meter rates, when tlie
consumer shall question the reading of
any meter or ask that the meter shall be
tested the superintendent of the water de
partment shall test the meter and if it
he found correct the property owner shall
pay all expenses of the test, and if it r»c
found incorrect the town shall pay such
expense.
Section 18. —Each dwelling, flat, tenant,
store, office building or establishment
within the enclosure or when separated by
only a door or gateway or other means of
easy- access shall he considered a single
service and shall be charged as such.
Section 19.—N0 water shall he used for
irrigation or sprinkling purposes during
the progress of any fire in the town, all
irrigation or sprinkling and the use of
Water for driving motors or cooling pur
poses shall be immediately stopped when
the .fire alarm is sounded In any part of
the tow’n and shall not begin again until
♦he fire has been extinguished. For the
violation of this section a penalty of ($10)
for each offense shall be Imposed and the
water may be turned off, and the same
not be turned on again until .all charges
have been paid.
Section 20.—1t shall be unlawful for any
person without proper authority to
close, turn on or Interfere with
or attach to or connect with any fire
hydrant, stop valve or stop cock belong
ing to the town or Oroville. or to disturb
or damage any pipe, machinery, tools or
other property of the water department
of the town of Oroville, or to throw any
substance Into any reservoir, well of wa
ter main belonging to the town of Oroville.
Any person or persons violating any of
the provisions of this section or other sec
tions of this ordinance that no penalty
has been provided for shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon con
viction thereof may be fined In any sum
not less than ($10.00) ten dollars nor more
that ($75.00) seventy-five dollars, and the
cost of prosecution.
Section 21.—The following monthly rates
shall bo charged for water furnished by
the town of Oroville.
Minimum rate for any singel service $1.50
Banks, exclusive of water closets I.sft
Bakeries 2.00
Barber shops, one chair 1.50
Barber shop, each additional chair 50
Bathtubs, public 1.00
Boarding house, five rooms or less.. 1.50
Boarding house, more than five rooms with
lap in room, each additional room 25
Boarding house, more than five rooms
without lap In room, each additional
room 10
Butcher shop 2.00
Butcher shop with cold storage plant meter
Bottling works meter
Brick laying, per thousand 05
Brick yard 3.00
Cement, per bbl 05
Cigar factories 1.50
County buildings 3.00
Dwelling house 1.50
Dwelling house where rooms are rented
with tap in each room, additional
room 25
Dwelling house where rooms are rented
without tap in room, each additional
room 10
Hotels, not more than 30 rooms G.OO
Hotels more than 30 rooms with tap in
room, each additional room 25
Hotels, more than 30 rooms without tap
in room, additional room 10
Laundries meter
Lime, per bbl 05
Lodging house, boarding house rate
Office buildings, three rooms or less 1.50
Office buildings, more than three rooms
each additional room 25
Stables, livery, sale or feed 2.50
Drug stores 1-50
Stores Grocery 1.50
Soft drink parlors or pool rooms 1.50
Restaurants 3.50
Hospitals, ten beds or less 1.50
Hospitals, more than 10 beds each addi
tional bed 10
Photograph galleries 2.00
Private bath or toilet 25
Lawn sprinkling, per lot of 5000 sq. ft. 50
Law’ll sprinkling, each additional 1000
sq. 10
Meier rates -
First 7500 gallons, per 1000 20
Next lO.ftftft "ollons per 1000 15
All over 17,5 0 gallons per 1000 11
Section 22. -The use of water for motor
service may be discontinued at any time
by the town by giving one hour written
notice and tendering any unearned water
rent paid by the person, firm or corpora
tion using the same and no liability shah
be attached to the town on account of Die
discontinuance of said service.
Section 23.—Upon the complaint of any
water user that any unjust charge has
been made for the use of water upon any
premises, he may appear In person be
fore the council at any regular meeting
thereof, and if it shall be decided by the
council that any such charge is unjust,
the council shall make such adjustment
as shall seem equitable or may order a
meter Installed. Where rates are not pro
vided for by this ordinance the council
shall upon application make rates to ap-
Kly to any use of the water not specified
v this ordinance.
‘Section 24.—That ordinance No. 50 and
ordinance No. 58 and all ordinances or
parts of ordinance In conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 26.—This ordinance shall take
effect and be in force from Its passage
and publication.
Passed first and second reading. April
24. 1916.
Passed and approved May 8, 1916.
Published May 12. 1916.
J. F. SAMSON. Mayor.
E. R. HOOSE. Clerk.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH
(Rev. G. 11. Severance, Vicar.)
Sunday school at 12 every Sunday. There
will be no services next Sunday.
OROVILLE. WASHIN 4TON,
A BAPTISM OF FIRE
The Spokane Hotel, in the Business Sec
tion Partly Destroyed.
•Inst about (I o’clock Wednesday evening
smoke was discovered issuing from the
rooi of the Spokane hotel, the large three
story frame building at the Northwest
corner of Railroad avenue and Main street
and the town was thrown into consterna
tion by the hoarse voice of the tire siren.
What made the alarm and evidence of
lire more appalling was the prevalence of
a very stiff wind from the west, threaten
ing the entire business section. Within an
incredible brief period Main street was
crowded by almost tlie entire population,
and ready hands commenced moving goods
and furniture from what appeared to be
doomed buildings. Far quicker than could
he expected the lire department was on
the scene, and the work performed demon
strated the advantage of organization.
With little excitement the liremen got the
apparatus into action under the direction
ol Chief McMahan. Two leads of iiose were
laid from the hydrant at the corner of
Railroad avenue and Main street, and
two leads from the hydrant at the corner
of First avenue and Main street. In addi
tion to these four heavy streams, they
threw a deluge of water into the build
ing. the chemical engine got on a stream
which was very effective in checking the
flames. The liremen carried the liose Into
ihe third story and on the roof and with
in a few minutes it was evident that the
liie was under control, and In less than an
hour of hard work the fire was entirely
extinguished.
As stated above the Spokane hotel Is a
very large three story frame building, dry
as tinder, and when tlie fiames broke out
of the roof, fanned to fury by an unusu
ally heavy wind, there was not a person
present that did not expect to see the en
tire building consumed, and a number of
others in the immediate vicinity. The work
of the department cannot he too greatly
praised. Fortunately for the town the
several companies were organized into ac
tive units only three weeks ago. The hose
companies have been dilligently practicing
for the race that is to take place during
the irrigation celebration, and were in
splendid shape to respond to a call to
duty and knew how to handle the appa
ratus at a fire. It is almost certain if It
had not been for this new organization the
lire could not have been handled as it was.
The firemen worked without the usual
aimless excitement so common in country
towns when fires break out. and the fact
that flames were confined wholly to the
roof and attic is ample proof of the excel
lency of the work. Not a thing was touch
ed by fire, except the ceilings, in the third
story. Each and every individual member
of the department did his duty.
The building was owned by George De
von, and he carried about $6,000 insurance,
$5,000 on the building and $1,500 In the
National Union on tlie furniture. .1. A.
Bladder carried the insurance on the fur
niture. The Insurance on the building
was in companies repersented by L. L.
Work, but as Mr. Work is In Spokane It
could not be learned what companies held
the policies. Probably $2,500 would cover
the loss on the building, while the loss by
fire and water was considerable on the
furniture. As much damage was dohe the
building by water as by fire, as an enor
mous volume of water was thrown on the
building.
The general supposition Is that the fire
caught from a spark from a chimney, as
when first discovered smoke was coming
out of the roof around the chimney on the
main building, near the front. The roof on
the south side of tHe building both ways
from the chimney is almost entirely burn
ed off. while the fiames hardly broke
through the roof on the north side of the
building. It is alleged by members of the
family that there was no fire In the build
ing. If that Is correct, then the fire must
have caught from an electric wire.
Notes.
The real estate office of the Oroville
Investment Company joins the Spokane
hotel on the north, and Is one of the hand
somest fitted up offices in the county.
When the flames rolled over the roof of
the hotel it looked as though the real
estate office was doomed and the crowd
commenced carrying the contents of the
building to safety. The big room was
cleaned out in a few minutes, even the
heavy safe being removed. The next day
the premises looked as though a Zeppelin
bomb had wrecked Die interior of the
room.
.The wildest and stiffest wind that has
visited Die valley for a year swept down
out of the west all the afternoon. In some
instances blowing down trees. Very for
tunately this wind was dying down just
at the time the fire broke out. It does not
seem possible that the fire could have
been extinguished without doing enoi
mous damage had It broken out an hour
earlier.
The Chief desires to express his praise,
appreciation and thanks to the chemical
crew, nozzle men. hydrant men, hood and
ladder company in particular and the en
tire fire department In general for theli
prompt response to the call for duty, and
the excellent service performed.
It is little short of a crime to drive
over lines of hose during a fire, and in anv
city a person so doing would he instantly
arrested and heavily fined. An ordinance
covering this misdeameanor should be
passed and rigidly enforced. Any damage
to hose at a critical period might entail
thousands of dollars In damages.
'Hie water system stood the strain of
the heavy drain without diminishing Die
supply in the well and reservoir. Engineer
Moose stood steadfast at his post at the
pump house, and states that lie could have
furnished a supply of water for 24 hours
had It been necessary.
No one hut those within the building
could have any Idea of the amount ot
water that was poured upon the fire, much
of It wasted, of course, owing to the diffi
culty experienced at first getting directly
at the flames. Water stood to the depth or
several inches on the upper floors, and a
cataract flowed down the front stairs.
A squad kept the roof of the library
building wet down witli a garden hose
but after Die streams of water once reach
ed the attic all danger of the fire spread
ing had passed.
The showing made by the water system
and the department proves that Oroville
is well equipped to handle anv fire that
could visit the place. Next 'to the old
Peerless hotel the building burned W’as the
greatest menace to the town.
It Is not known what Mr. Devon will do
with the premises. If the authorities do not
prevent he may repair the building.
The Importation ot contraband goods of
a liquid nature from across the line is
the natural consequence of the prohibition
law’, and it is going to require eternal
vigilence and drastic measures to stamp
out the practice. Some exciting episodes
grow out of this blockade running. A re
port comes down from Molson that two
drummers traveling in an automobile re
ported to the customs officers Friday
last, and upon a search of the car a large
vial of prohibited fluid-joyful was discov
ered. The tabooed goods was confiscated.
The deputy sheriff was out of town, and
the drummers did not linger around Mol
son awaiting his return. Thev threw on
Die high and dashed down the hill to
Oroville at a speed that has never been
equaled on that track. At this place they
were in such a hurry that when stocking
up with gasoline they did not waste time
waiting for change. but hit the road
southward at a dizzy pace. So far as can
be learned they escaped the clutches of
the law. hut they will probably leave
northern Okanogan out of their Itlnery
for some time in the future, as Diey are
known to the officers and will he spotted
should they return.
MAY 12. 1916.
TELEPHONE TRANSFER.
Mrs. Luella R. Anderson has sold the
local telephone line to the Pacific Tele
phone and Telegraph company, of Spo
kane, and the actual transfer of poses
sion Is expected to take place on the Ist
of June. This deal has not been forced by
the invasion of this territory by a foreign
and stronger company, making it a com
pulsory transfer of an old and well estab
lished local business. The local service lias
become so extensive and exacting, and
many improvements required that the
present owner hardly felt herself in a po
sition to carry out, that Mrs. Anderson
had little hesitancy In accepting the op
portunity to sell ut a price that was per
fectly satisfactory.
The late Jas. P. Anderson, husband of
Mrs. Luella U. Anderson, established the
local telephone service five years ago. At
that time Mr. Anderson's venture was
considered an experiment, with depend
ants wholly on the future for an ade
quate return on the investment. Unfor
tunately Mr. Anderson died before realiz
ing his anticipations, and Mrs. Anderson
assumed the management. From a modest
beginning, the local telephone system has
grown to be an extensive, important and
remunerative business. The local wires
cover the entire town, a line has been ex
tended across the British Columbia line
connecting up with many points, and con
nections have been made with operating
lines, local and otherwise, that extend in
every direction throughout the county.
Mrs. Anderson has shown much enter
prise and executive ability in the manage
ment of the steadily increasing business,
and she has won the respect and good
will of the entire public by her uniform
courtesy, promptness and efficient ser
vice. Her giving up the line ut this time
is simply a business proposition which
she considers to he to her advantage.
The new owners of the local telephone
servlcf* require no introduction to the
public. The Pacific Telephone and Tele
graph company is well and favorably
known throughout the state, owning ami
operating a vast ramification of lines al
ready covering the county and connecting
with other systems owned by the company
that extend throughout eastern Washing
ton. Indeed the Oroville system is only a
connection and expansion of the lines in
the county already in the hands of this
company. The Pacific Telephone and Tel
egraph company Is a strong financial In
stitution. In a position and ready and al
ways willing to even keep ahead of the
growth of population with such Improve
ments as are required to meet the de
mands of the public. Improvements will
he made in the local system, and a ser
vice provided to which no foult can be
found, and on terms that will be satisfac
tory to every patron and subscriber.
BETTER ROADS BOOSTERS ATTEN
TION.
As Thanksgiving day is proclaimed a
day of giving thanks and is generally ob
served by closing all places of business,
i believe that ‘‘Good Roads Day” siiouid
also be observed as generally throughout
the state. Let us start this practice here
in Okanogan county. 1 would not recom
mend that we follow the thanksgiving cos
tume of eating turkey to Die limit, hut
would earnestly recommend to every cit
izen Of Okanogan county Dial on good
rftads day, May 16, that every business
be closed and that every one. old
enough .i.. handle a shovel give his services
that day for “better roads.” A wonderful
amount of good would result from a unit
ed effort of this kind and every one who
travels would receive direct benefits.
Our county commissioners, good roads
clubs and supervisors are doing all they
can for Okanogan county roads, but in a
new and rapidly developing country like
this the needed improvements are far be
yond the financial ability of the county,
and volunteer assistance must be had if
we are to have good roads.
if on May 16th the business houses close
and every one works the roads, hundreds
of dollars in improvements will result. 1
would like to have every member of the
Okanogan county Better Roads asociatlon
in each community feel that he is a com
mittee of one to request the business
houses to close and to assist in organizing
crews for road work, if your good roads
dub or commerical club meets before the
16th. bring the matter up at the meeting,
if there is no meeting of your club before
Dint date get into the game as individuals
and let us make Tuesday, May IGth, a
banner good roads day. Sincerely
HARRY J. KERR.
President Okanogan County Better
Roads Association.
Okanogan, May 8, 1916.
THE BREWSTER MEET.
The annual meet of the athletic v* : ng
men of the high schools oi Ok**i egan
county, held at Brewster last Friday and
Saturday, was jne o* the most succ.jssful
in point ol attendance interest an i ex
citement tiiht has vet been held *.i> the
• ounty. I’epiesentatives of the several
schools took part l* f ambitious yea*bp
straining tvei> muscle and nerve to wm
honors for their several schools. Oroville
sent down i* delegation composed of
Prince, Cole. McMahan, Mallory, Ashby,
Ford and Dallam, under the charge of
Prof. W. Leonard Davis. The boys left
here with high hopes, but the record made
fell far below expectations. Mallory and
McMahan were the only Oroville athletes
able to cop a first, Mallory in the pole
vauH and McMahan in the shot put. In
the balance of the events, where they had
a look-in at all, they had to be content
with thirds. Okanogan led in points by
miles, garnering 56 to 22 for Oroville, 18
for Omak, 9 for Conconully and 3 for
BreWbter. If weak in athletics Oroville
showed up most creditably in the declam
atory contest, as the honors were awarded
to Lawrence Dallam, who won against
some of the best declalmers that have
ever taken part in that feature of Die
annual school meet.
TO THE PUBLIC.
Some dissatisfaction is apparent on
account of the closing of the post office
lobby at 8:30 o’clock at night. These per
sons have, perhaps, not taken into con
sideration that the lobby is closed only
eight hours out of the 24. It is opened at
5:30 a. m. and remains open until 8:30 p.
m. And when the Spokane train is on lime
the first class mail Is all distributed and
any box holder can get his mail before
8:30 that night by making it a point to
be there on time.
The government makes no regulations,
or requirements for night service, neither
does it provide for sufficient help to do
the work in this office. The present office
force does as much work in this office be
tween 5:30 and 8 o’clock in the morning
as is done in a whole day in an ordinary
store: not to say anything of the long,
hard day before them continuing until
nine o’clock at night, for there is much
work to he done after the office closes
often over forty pieces of registered mail
to bill out for the next morning and
much other work. There is a limit to
human strength and until the department
provides sufficient additional help. it
will be necessary to close the office nt
8:30 p. m. Respectfully
R. P. HOSKYN.
Postmaster.
' LESLIE C. HILL.
The Greenwood (B. C.) Ledge contains
the following information a sto the late
Leslie C. Hill, who died on his ranch
north of Orovllle recently:
C. Hill, who died at Osoyoos,
H. C., of acute Brights disease, on April
21. was for a number of years engaged in
directing mining operations In various parts
of British Columbia and Alberta. When in
1897 or 1898 lie went from Vancouver to
Greenwood, to develop the Jewel gold
mine, that property was controled by \»n
couver men who are also interested in the
Vancouver group near Silverton, Slocan,
and this property* too, Mr. Hill developed.
Later, lie directed the development of the
Rend d’Or mine, now included in the Coro
nation group, situated on Cadwaliadar
creek, Lillooet mining division. As mana
ger and mining engineer for the Hastings
(R. C.) Exploration Syndicate, of London,
England, lie effected a transformation
from a mining enterprise somewhat heav
ily burdened with debt to a producing,
dividend paying undertaking. That com
pany’s gold mine was at Erie, Nelson min
ing division. Before retiring from mining
engineering to live on ids ranch at Oso
yoos, to which place he removed from
Nelson several years ago, he did a lot of
development on some coal properties in
Southwest Alberta, owned by the Head
syndicate of London. During many yeai>
of professional activity lie also did much
civil engineering—he was an associate
member of the Institute of Civil Englneei
For some years, too, he was a member of
Hie Canadian Mining Institute, lie was a
good representative of the typical old
country professional man, and it was sig
nificant that Ids foreman and superintend
ents remained in ids employ for many
years.”
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
.Minutes of tlie meeting of the town
council of Oroville, Washington, May 8,
Present. Mayor Samson, Councilmen
Be Me, Bartel! and Friis.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and nppio\ed as read.
The application of The Pacific Telephone
and Telegraph company for franchise to
use tlie streets, alleys and public places
in I lie town of Oroville for the purpose of
opera ling telephone and telegraph lines
was u,ad and motion was made by Conn
< ibnan Friis seconded by Councilman Bar
teil that the date of the hearing of tills
application be set on June 1, 191G at 8:30
p. m. and that the clerk be instructed to
publish and post the necessary notices as
required by law, on the payment or guar
antee of payment of the necessary expen
ses by the applicant. Motion carried.
Mr. McMahan upeared before the coun
cil asking that the fire hydrant on the
corner of Main street and Railroad ave
nue be moved and placed in a more acces
sabie position and that the necesavy
wrenches and one tee joint be purchased
for the use of the department as these
articles are necessary for the fire aparatus.
Motion was made that the clerk be in
structed to move the hydrant and order
the equipment asked for at once. Motion
carried.
Air. Parsons appeared before the coun
cil asking that tlie meter at the school
house be tested as there seems to be an
excess amount of water being registered
bv the meter. The clerk was Instructed to
lest the meter.
Motion was made and seconded that S.
B. Starrett be appointed to fill the unex
pired term of C. T. Peterson as council
man. Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 74 entitled An Orlnance
Regulating and Controlling the use of
water supplied by the Town of Oroville,
Washington, fixing the rates thereon, pro
viding penalties for the violation thereof,
and repealing ordinance No. 50 entitled
“an ordinance regulating and controling
the use of waiter supplied by the Tow'n of
Oroville. Washington. fixing the rates
thereon, providing peallies for the viola
tion thereof, and repealing all ordinances
in conflict therewith” also repealing ordin
ance No, 58 entitled ‘‘an ordinance amend
ing section 10, section 7 and section 17 of
ordiance no 50 of the Town of Oroville,
Washington, fixing the rates thereon, pro
viding peallies for the violation thereof,
and repealing all ordinances in conflict
therewith,” and repealing all ordinances
or parts of ordinances in conflict with this
ordinance was read by sections and some
changes made after which motion was
made and seconded that the ordinance
pass its third and final reading. Yeas.
Beale, Bartell and Friis. Noes. none.
On motion the following bills were al
lowed; E. A. McMahan, salary and ex
penses $53.44; Jas. Ferguson, police jus
tice fees, 3.10; John Collins, labor on wa
ter works 12.00; Ed. Davis, labor on wa
ter works. 11.70; Oroville Garage, pump
repairs, 20.15; H. J. Desmond, supplies,
water works. 4.15; Oroville Investment Co.
Insurance. 40.40; L. H. Prentice, hauling.
4.50; Schultz & Son., Freight and drayage
9.35; Woodburry Lumber Co., lumber 3.15;
L. Chrisman, team hire, 7.10; Farmers Co
operative association, hay, 1.50; Oroville
Telephone Co. telephone, 4.50; Slmilka
meen Power Co. power & light 108.30;
Crane & Co., supplies, water works. 51.35;
J. W. Graham, office supplies, 4.02; Pio
neer Binding and Printing Co. books 27.89;
Shaw & Borden Co., election supplies
3.84. On motion the council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
I VAN HOE REORGANIZED
The Alberta and Western Mines Ltd.,
the well known mining company that has
spent so much money opening up exten
sive and rich ore deposits on the old Ivan
hoe group of claims, above Palmer lake,
has been reorganized In this state under
Die name of the Spokane-Edmonston
Mining company, and the new company
is preparing to carry out the plans of
procedure contemplated by the old com
pany in order to place the mine in Die
producing class. All that is necessary for
that purpose Is the installation of a treat
ment plant, for there is enough ore
blocked out to keep a plant of large capac
ity busy indefinitely. The company has
placed its stock upon the market, reserv
ing $25,000 of the preferred stock for dis
tribution in the immediate district where
the mine is situated, upon the plans and
terms set forth in an advertisement that
appears in another column of this issue.
Lack of space at this time prevents a
more extended comment upon the merits
of the Ivanhoe group, so well understood
in this immediate vicinity, where the ex
tent of the strike of ore and the immense
amount of work that has been accomplish
ed during the past two years is so well
known. The opportunity here presented
for investment by Diose who can afford
to take a flyer in mining stocks is one
seldom presented to the public, for here
is one instance where the element of
chance is almost wholly eliminated, judg
ing from tlie extent and character of the
mineral showing.
GRADUATION EXERCISES.
The graduation exercises will take place
at the high school, Friday evening, May
19th. Baccalaureate sermon will be deliv
ered by Rev. Bond at the Presbyterian
church, Sunday morning May 14. The
graduation program will be as follows:
Music Boys Trio
Class History Goldie Mitchell
Oration Garland Ethel
Class Prophecy Theodore Johnson
Solo Lawrence Dallam
Oration Charles Cole
Class Will Bernice Desmond
Class Poem Harlln Fuller
Music Girls’ Trio
Address Rev. Strlte
Presentation of diplomas E. E. Parsons.
Solo Miss Graves
Pome conscionsless individual stole 17
baby chickens from a coop on the premis
es of O. S. Allen Saturday night, leaving
one lone chick for the old hen to take carc
of Mr. Allen says the thlaf should come
and get the other chick and stave tlie old
hen from so much labor caring for a sin
gle efffpring.
IOWA VISITORS.
Monday evening a party of prospective
land seekers from Kolfe, lowa, composed
of Mr. and Mrs. C. K. Ferguson, George
U. Gunderson. L. F. Burnhard, J. Dim
berg and Mr. Shafer, the latter a brother
in-law of E. Truax, arrived In Orovllle
accompanied by 11. B. Russell, the well
known colony locator and Fred W. Gra
ham. immigration agent of the Great
Northern railroad. The visitors were taken
In charge by residents of Orovllle and for
two or three days were driven over the
valley. The visit was made at the most In
opportune time for them to get a favorable
Impression o fthe climate of the valley, for
the most disagreeable weather ever ex
perin-d at this sason of the year prevailed
during the entire time that they were In
town. The members of the party were
rather noncommittal us to their intentions
or general impressions, although they ex
pressed themselves as being well pleased
with the country. The party was made up
of very prepossessing and Intelligent peo
ple, evidently men of high character and
enterprising and progressive spirit. Just
such a class as Is needed to develop this
comparatively new country, and strength
en its citizenship. It is to be hoped that
they were sufficiently impressed with the
future possibilities of the Okanogan val
ley to induce them to return and locate
permanently.
SCHOOL ENTERTAINMENT.
No one in this community should over
look nor forget the public school enter
tainment that is billed for this Friday
evening in the Orpheum theatre. “The
ileal Donna Maria," the chief feature Is a
clever and amusing comedy, and will be
presented in a manner that will be a
credit to those taking part. The presen
tation will be both entertaining and
amusing. Intersperced between acta will
be a number of musical numbers and dec
lamations. Altogether the program la to
be one of tlie best that has ever been giv
en by the schools. The receipts of the
evening are to be applied to liquidating
debts contracted by the high school athlet
ic association during the term, the pat
ronage extended to the boys at the sev
eral contests not having been sufficient
to meet the expenses, which Is not at all
creditable to the town. The scholars have
not asked the citizens for donations dur
ing the term to support this important
and indlspensible feature of the high
school work, and lienee everybody should
turn out tonight and contribute their
mite toward aiding this most worthy
cause. If the people of Orovolle display
the loyalty to the school that they should
the Orpheum will contain the largest
audience this evening that has ever as
sembled in the building.
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT.
Report of librarian for April, 1916..
No. of books of fiction withdrawn 140
No. of books of non-tlctlon withdrawn :
Fines collected 70
Applications 5
Donations made by Mrs. Thompson—
two volumes of poems, Whittier and Long
fellow. Poetical works. Pope: poems, Ten
nyson; Browning, Lucile, Meredith; The
Mewcomes, Thackeray; The Eyes of the
World. Wright: The Gold Bug, Poe: Two
Admirals, Cooper; Margaret Maitland,
Opiphant; His Hour. Glyn; The Night
Born. London; The Purchase Price,
Hongli; The Brazed Trail, White: The
Yellow House. Oppenheim; The Escape of
Mr. Trlmm, Cobb: The Winning of Bar
bara Worth, Wright: The Barrier, Beach;
Wormwood, Corelli; Pickwick Papers,
Dickens; Thaddeus of Warsaw, Porter:
Mr, Opp, Rice: It’s Up to You, McHugh;
The Long Roll, .Tohnston; Dream Life,
Mitchell: Tanglewood Tales, Hawthorne;
Donations by Mrs. .1. W. Baker—Faith
Gartney's Girlhood, Whitney.
We have a large collection of good
magazines which we will he glad to give to
any one making application for them on
the regular library days. The library is
open every Tuesday and Saturday after
noon and Saturday evening.
VERA SPENCER, Librarian.
BOOK DONATIONS.
The Loomis Public library has recently
received from the trustees under the will
of Mary Baker Eddy, the following: books
on Christian science by Mary Baker Edqy.
Science and Health with key to the scrip*
tures, (English): Miscellaneous writings;
The First Church of Christ, Scientist and
Miscellany: Unity of Good; Retrospection
and Introspection: Pulpit and Press;
Christian Healing and The People’s Idea
of God; Rudemental Divine Science; No
and Yes; Messages to the Mother Church.
Periodicals. The Christian Science Journal
(monthly); Christian Science Sentinel,
(weekly) and the Christian Science Mon
itor (daily.) These books and periodicals
have been presented without cost to the
library and are to be placed at the dis
posal of the reading public as soon as they
have been catalogued.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
service at 11 a. m. Pulpit to be supplied.
Epworth League at 7p. m. Preaching at
8 p. m. Subject of sermon: “Behold thy
Mother."
Everybody welcome; everybody invited;
everybody come. The homelike church
and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. ST RITE. Pastor.
OBITUARY OF DORIS CHASE,
Doris Chase was born April 26, 1914, at
Circle. Washington. and passed away
May 6, 1916, at Circle, Washington. Age,
2 years and 10 days. She leaves a mother
and father, three sisters, a brother, two
grandmothers, a grandfather, two aunts
and five uncles to mourn her death. She
was buried in the Odd Fellows cemetery
at Oroville, Monday May 8, 1916, Rev.
W. W. Strite officiating.
Prof. F. B. Nance has signed up a con
tract with the school directors to remain at
the head of the Oroville public schools
for two years. Mr. Nance has held'the po
sition of principal of the Oroville schools
for three years, and under his able direc
tion the schools have steadily Improved.
Prior to coming here Mr. Nance held the
position of principal of the Wenatchee
schools for six years. His retention meets
with the hearty Indorsement of the public.
The dlrecorts acted wisely in the selection
of teachers this year, as all of the old
faculy wtlll be retained. This thing of
changing teachers every year, unless there
is some excellent reason therefor. Is a
mistake, and detracts from the standard
of tlte school. Teachers who come and go
cannot be expected to take as much In
terest in their work, nor develop school
loyalty, as those who are retained from
year to year on the Job. The past year
lias been very successful in school work,
and with the old hands and heads again
directing affairs the school Is bound to
he better than ever next year.
Harry Bird returned Friday from Oro
viile, near where he has been mining on
a property in which he is interested. He
reports that they have mined about a car
load of rich galena ore which will he ship
ped as soon ns the conditions of the road
from tlie mine to the railroad are in shape
to haul heavy load over. The property Is
situated about six miles from Oroville.
According to samples that Mr. Bird
brought witli him. the shipment should
net a considerable sum. and place him
and Ids partners in a financial way to
more extensively operate the property.—*
Republic Journal.
«I.M PER TEAR
