IN A DEMOCRAT
CELINA
ONE PAPER
In tha HOME It worth doin In
tha byway, and Juat rtmtmbtr THE
DEMOCRAT la tha homa paper of
Marear County. a a
THE RESERVOIR CITV THE
BIQQEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH THE HUB OF THE UNI
VERSE. Kiublnh.d Mm . IMS.
Katra i thChna. i. -iMMtfftcs tiid-Ui !! viftttvi.
Volume 21, Number 5
Carlin & Carlin, PublUhert
Celina, Ohio, May 12, 1916
THE CEL
HOLOCAUST
Most Disastrous in Over Twen
ty Years Visits Celina
Or ib Jan Garage antl Several Oth
er Building Burned-Four
florae Cremated.
Flic of unknown origin, which started
alHiiit midnight Wednesday in the barn
lit the rear of the Urothjan Karaite,, on
. Muln street, Jilxt north of the City Hall,
caused one oi thu most disastrous llres
that hax visited this city in u number or
yearn, done property damage thut will
n ach ncur $1.1, 000, anil for a, while threat
ened JcHtructlon to n number of resi
dences north and cast of the burn
ed buildings. The flamcii were funned by
u good wind willed carried burning shing
les clear to tlie east end of town, and for
a w hile caused much concern to many re
sidence owner. ('Inured pieces of shin
gles were reported an fur east of town us
the Juneman club house.
The heaviest losers were A. II. 'iiolh
Jan A .Nun and Horseman Flunk .Miller,
the latter suffering tile loss of four line
horses, valued at uboul $1200, on which
ho ran led no insurance.
The blasse Blurted in the barn, used by
.Mr. .Miller lo keep bin horse In, ul the
reur of the Urothjan building und when
Ural discovered by Churles F.llls, hud NO
enveloped the burn thut it wan impossible
to reuch the frantic homes, whose ugoniz
ed whining und puwlhg rent the uir.
The (lames spread rapidly to the (Irolh
Jan building, now occupied us the Ford
garugc, ami years ugo used us a carriage
palnl sliop. The structure, u large two
slory frame, with oil and pulnl coaled
lloors and walls lent fury to the lire, and
was uhluze from lop lo bottom when Fire
Chief Weber und las crew began playing
wuler onto tiie burning muss. Severul
small explosions of gasciine in Ihe burn
ing automobile caused added fury, which
was climaxed when the second lloor of the
gal age building gave w ay und the Over
land touring cur of K M. Hull and paints
and varnishes from thu Collit pulnl shop
dropped lo the ground, the gasoline tank
of Hie Hull car ut the sa-ne time exploding
with a loud report.
The flames spread to the building oc
cupied by the Slolzer marhcl works ucross
the alley to the south und to the burns ut
the rear of the. nun be! works and on the
H. ill .Miller, II. I a. .Morningstar und l,es
lle Doughrldge properties, to the east, the
two former barns being completely raxed,
only by excellent work ot the lire depart
ment, assisted by volunteers, were the
Haines gotten under coi.trol without burn
ing several residences on Hie &rlh and
east und the store room of Ine Celina
Furniture Co. on the osuth.
Besides the loss of the higbuilillng und
burn ihe Urolnjun a iojt ten new Ford
uulomotiiles, which huo just been set up,
und one old one, in the garage for re
puns. Several muchines were pushed out
ami most of the supplies in the otllce were
saved. Their loss is estimated at between
$10,000 and $12,000, well covered by lnsu
unce. .Mr. Stelzer suffered considerable dam
age to his building, but his prlnclpukjoss
was in the destruction of marble monu
ment slabs, one valued at several hun
dred dollars, lie carried no Insurance,
and his loss will be more than $000.
The Woeste Bros, hud three new bug
ties in the barn on the rear of the Stel
zer properly, which were completely des
troyed entailing u loss of about $250, Willi
no insurance.
The loss to the Loughridge and Morn
ingstar barns and the lien Miller barn and
its contents, which Included the pld Ford
roadster, until recently driven by Hr.
Schlenker, und other property, is well co
vered by Insurunce.
Otis Collit suffered tie loss of a large
'luantity of paints und varnishes on which
lie had no insurance. The Hull automo
bile, which lie had Just linished piiitiiijt
and had expected to deliver today, was
insured.
Tlie Celina Telephone company was hit
pretty hard by the blaze which burnt oft
three large lead cable, burned down a
couple of poles and left a muss of twist
ed und tangled copper wire that will take
several days to clean away and replace.
Many phones in the north and northeast
end of town were put out of commission
by the burning of tile cubles.
It is probable thut a new brick garage
will replace the burned structure on the
'.irothjan property, wltile several days
time will see tilings well cleaned up in the
reur lots. Air. Stelzer had carpenters ut
work yesterday afternoon remodelling his
building und said that Ills stone-cutters
would be back ut work today. Hen Miller
had cleaned up the most of the rubbish on
ihs place last evening, and like work was
going on ut Orothjans, Doughridge's and
llw other destroyed buildings. The tele
phone company has a large force of men
at work replacing the burned pules und
will likely be uble to repluce there cubles
by the lirst of tlie week.
LADDIES HAVE CALL ON WEST
WARREN STREET
While the lire department were cleaning
things up yesterday morning an ulurm
was sent in from tlie William Whito home
on West Warren street, shortly after ten
o'clock, when lire was dlscoverd on the
roof of the dwelling. Carpenters working
on a neighboring dwelling took a ladder
to the building und had extinguished the
blaze tiefore the department arrved. The
only damage was a few shingla.
INSIGNIFICANT
WAS LOSS SUSTAINED BY NATION
AL MUTUAL INSURANCE CO. AT
GROTHJAN FIRE
To the members of the National Mutual
Insurance Company, of Celina, Ohio:
In order to assure our members, we
take this means of advising you tnat the
total loss suffered by our company under
the A. B. Urothjan & Son garage lire,
will not exceed $600, and we nave ap
proximately T800 members and that the
loss will be paid immediately upon ad
justment. All other cars were Insured by the R.
J. Hrookhart Agency, but were Insured
In The North Klver Insurance Company
or new rorg. ine one car tnat was
destroyed! und the one damaged, for which
The Nutional Mutual Insurance Company
was name, were cars mat were tempor
urilly in this garage, but were usually
kept In private garages.
10. J. BKOOKHAIIT, Secy.
PERSONAL
Mrs. Cotter Dugan, of Konton, O., Is
visiting er mother, Mrs. Kmma Koeb.
Mr. ani Mrs. Grover Burrls are the
happy parents of a ten pound baby girl.
Mrs. Allen Bouslog, Feru. lnd., is the
week end guest at tlie home of Mr. and
Mrs. Otto Kentzsch, North Main street.
The Ladles Aid society of the Presby
terian church will be entertained this af
ternoon by Mrs. Zura Hiley, Fast Mar
ket street.
Misses 1'nullne Lennartz and Nora
Fortman left last. Saturday for a trip
to St. 1 .on Is where they will make an
extended visit with relatives.
Mrs. George Zay and daughter, Inez, re
turned from Palm Beach, Fla., last Sat
urday night, after spending the winter
there. Knroute home they stopped for
a few day's visit at Cincinnati.
Byron Leymunon, of Center township,
who a short time ago underwent an op
eration at the Otis hospital was taken
to his home last Monday. He is great
ly improved.
' Miss Norah Gagle, of Celina, 0., came
Friday to spend the summer with her
aunt, Mrs. Anna Foltz, Hast High street.
Mrs. Elmer Oagle, of Celina, is a guest
at the Foltz home also. Portland Com
mercial Review.
Miss Caroline Reese of Union. City, who
spent' a couple of weuks with her sis
ter, Mrs. Chrales North and family, East
Seventh street, where she will be a
guest of her brothed. Rev. John Reese.
1'oiUand Dally Sun,
TO
On next Sunday Miiy H, III" N iliu
Church ol liocl Sunday, school will have
it big i ally in connection with observ
ing .Molher's Hay. They have sent mil a
rctucst lor all past and present members
ol Hut school li be present.
A cordial Invitation is also extended to
tli" pfihllc All married ladies me lo re
ceive a carnaton.
HOUSE
STRUCK BY LIGHTNING
SATURDAY NIGHT
The resdence of J. li. I'lummer, one
mile eust of FrustUH, was struck by light
ning during the storm Huturday night.
The roof of the house was consider
ably damaged and the chimney complete
ly shattered. Kmiiii of the household
goods were damaged. The loss is cover
ed by lunuruuee.
AUTOMOBILES MEET HEAD-ON
ON BANK ROAD
Last Tuesday night two .automobiles
came together on the bank road, the au
ehh nt occurring about 11 o'clock.
The accident resulted in tlie miracu
lous escape of one of the occupants of
the one car, John Snider, his wife und
three children, of Krastus.
.Mr. .Snider had turned out to-avoid a
Imd place in the road when the cars came
together, tlie compact turning the Snider
ear completely over, down the west em
bankment. The occupants of both cars were pretty
badly sunken up and frightened but es
caped injury.
The car that was thrown over the em
bankment was completely demolished.
ROOSEVELT
l,s llcliinil Kurd in Slate Vote
I .alter IteceivcH .Nearly Twice ax
Many, Ollicinl Figures Disclose
Henry Ford received almost twice
as many votes for presidential pref
erence in Ohio as Theodore Roose
velt. The Ford votes are divided al
most equally between the Democrat
Ic and Republican primaries, though
tie is a Republican.
Ollieial figures for the 88 conn
ties of the state on the results of last
week a primaries were given out yes
terday by Secretary of State Hilde-
brant. The totals are as follows:
Republican Presidential prefer
enre: Burton, 122.165; Webster, 14-
217; Roosevelt, 1932; Ford, 1683;
Hughes, 469 and Harding 211. Del
elates at large lla-ding, 111,970;
Willis, 99.569; Proctor, 74.127; Sul
livau 73,108; Griffin, 41,863; Tyler
32,857, and Glaser, 32,410.
Democratic Presidential prefer
ence; Wilson, 82,668; Ford, 1621;
Clark, 621; Bryan, 111; and Harmon
30. Vice presidential preference
Marshall, 66,770; Monnett, 9417.
Delegates-at-large; Cox 66,521; Har
mon, 63,752; Campbell, 62,057;
Pomerene, 52,435; and Monnett, 27,-
834.
STREET NOT WIDE ENOUGH
t ity .Mail Carrier Arch I). Conner was
itruck by an automobile, driven by W. A.
Waggoner, living southwest of town, yes
terday afternoon, while he was crossing
Market street at the corner of Main on
his bicycle. , He was uninjured, but the
wheel was demolished. Mr, Waggoner
wus not to bluine lor the ucciuent.
CITY FATHERS
PUTS O. K. ON MAIN MARKET ROAD
PROJECT SEWER WORK TO BE
PROCEEDED WITH
Council met in regular session last
Tuesday r.ight with all members respond
lug to roll call, excepting Uesch. All of
fleers were present, with Mayor Scranton
presiuing.
Hx-AIayor Kenney addressed council in
regard tlie petition being circulated to
Improve the water Iront between Main
and Ash streets. He spoke In favor or
levying a tax to imporve the strip of
ground in question, commonly known as
Smoky Row. As the petitioli had not
been presented to council no action was
taken.
J. F, Hamburger and J. H. Wlnkeljoh
an dadressed council relative to oiling the
streets. Tlie matter was referred to tlie
street committee.
Attorney C S. Younger addressed the
council relative to the improving of the
portion, ol Main Market road in the cor
poration from the C. -H. & D. ruilrtiad
west und asked that council pass a reso u
tion as prescribed by the state, providing
for the commissioners to improve inside
tne corporation, 'trie resolution was un
animously passed.
tleports ot departments ana omcers and
two resolutions for transferring money
were read and passed.
Fngineer Fishbaugh reported on the
unfinished sewer work and gave his esti
mates for tiie completion of the work.
The clerk was then uuthorized to at once
udvertise lor the sale of the unfinished
work.
BARON VON BETZEL
DECLARES HE'S IN SHAPE TO DO
BATTLE AGAINST EASTERN WAR
RIORS ALL-RIGHTY
By J. B. Sheridan, in St. Louis Globe
Democrat, May 10. J
Baron Ber-uoo-no von Betzel, the ster
ling second sucker of the St., Louis Na
tional League baseball club, indignantly
denies the impious Imputation that he
is afflicted with a boil, as stated by an
Irresponsible and vagrant afternoon press
yesterday. The Baron asservates, after
consultation with his physicians, that
he Is as sound as a nut, and so nutty
that if it were fall he would be fearful
the squirrels would come and get him.
So Hetzel is braced for the brunt ot
the battle against the high-class Eastern
clubs, which led by the army of Stand
pat Patrick Moran of Philly, will be the
victims of the Cardinals, and specially
selected battle ground at Robinson Field,
today
Nothing since the announcement by Ad
miral von Tirpitz of Germany's intention
to submarine British merchant ships
about tiie British Isles, and General Ob
regon's ultimatum to the United States
army 'Get out or I'll throw you out!"
created so much excitement as the an
nouncement that Bruno Betzel bore a boll
about him. Herman Seekamp said it was
the worst news he had heard since the
battle of Marne, and Schuyler Britton
agreed that he was another Job, patient
under a plugue of bolls which had attack
ed his ath-a-letes.
Britton is the DleaRantest nnit ninnf na-
.tient man in the world, but the Federal
League aisoider lias afflicted him with
several nasty financial boils in the shape
of extravagant salaries to bench-warming
ball players. To have the financial
plague Intensified by the physical plague
would be about all a patient president
could pack.
Fven Britton's private secretary, Ken
neth Mooney, said that he would cease
to wear his loud striped silk shirts and
borrow Bill Doak's black jersey and put
ashes on his hair and sackcloth about
ids body and go Into mourning:. See
kamp then said: "It never rains but It
pours. Here we got rid of Bresnahan
and His Kinney and then we get a plague
of boils, not? Fine." To compose his
shattered nerves Herman got busy wth
the big ledger.
The sad and Important news permeated
as far as Washington D. C. President
Wilson und Secretary of State Lansing
were at work on notes to the Imperial
German government and to the un-Im-perial
Mexican muss, and they could not
proceed until they received assurance!
that bolls were not on Bruno Betzel,
NEPTUNE CHURCH OF OOD S. S.
OBSERVE MOTHER'8 DAY
LIFE
Instantly Snuffed Out as Train
Hits Automobile
Henry Droevch, Chlckataw Mall
Carrier, the Victim Scene
Near Maria Stein.
A distressing uccidenl occurred last
Huturday afternoon between Chickasaw
und Maria Stein, when Henry Jiroescli,
rural mail carrier out of Chickasaw, wus
Instantly killed by a C. II. & 1. passen
ger train.
Mr. Droesi h was on his route when the
accident occurred. Th i road runs para
llel with the railroad for quite a dis
tance und then makes a dinip turn, cross
ing tlie tracks.
It is thought that he did not see the
train coining until he tinned on the lioPke
pike, one-half mile north of Marht Stein,
I le fore lie could get the cur uiulei con
trol it skidded directly in front of tlie
approaching south bound passenger.
When Ihe train struck toe machine, tlie
uniortunale man was hurled thirty or
forty leet In the air und Instantly killed.
Mr. Droesch wus boin at .Maria Stein
December 2, lSli2 und has always resided
there. He had been u rural iiihiL mi ner
for the past ten years.
He is survived by his wile and six
children.
Funeral services were held ut the
Chickasaw Catholic ..'hurcli lust Tues
day morning. Interim-lit in tlie f'utlio-
In
cemetery.
EPWORTH BANQUET AND
ELECTION
The big Kpworth Leaguu liannuet given
at the St. Paul's M. 10. Church last Tues
day evening was an event that will long
be remembered by ull In attendance.
An excellent program was rendered, af
trr which tlie election of olllcers was held
which resulted as follows:
President Carrol Stu libs.
1st Vice Pres. V'elone palmer,
"iid Vice Pres. Inez y.ay.
:id Vice pres. Orel Myers
Asst. 4th Vice Pres. Helva Dine.
Secretary. Ray Younger.
Treasurer. F.thcl Crampton.
Pianist. Helen Jackson.
The committee on arrangements of this
annual election and banouet consisted of
Misses Savelle Wlnans, Kthel Crampton,
Agnes Hendricks und Helva J line.
SEMINARY
AT CARTHAGENA SCENE OF1MPRES
SIVE SERVICES, WHEN YOUNG
MEN ENTER PRIESTHOOD
Four young Catholic priests, two
of them residents of this county, were
ordained into the Holy Priesthood at the
St. Charles Seminary of the Society of
the Most Precious Blood, at Carthngena
by Archbishop Henry Moeller, of Cincin
nati, last Wednesday morning.
The very Impressive services In the
Seminury chapel were witnessed by a
large concourse of friends and relatives
and many residents of this city and the
neighboring towns and countryside.
One of the young priests, Rev. Leo
Sponhauer, was a former resident of this
city, while another, liev. Henry Post,
was a Washington township boy. They
are also nan orotners.
Tlie other two ordained were Rev. Jas.
Mclnlvre of Columbus, and Rev. Theo
Jore Koenn, of Cecil.
Tlie Pontillcial High Mass. In connec
tion with tiie ordination was celebrated
by tlie most Reverend Henrv Mueller,
Archbishop of tlie Cincinnati Diocese.
who also delivered tlie appropriate ser
mon. Tlie archb shop was usslsted at l.ic
muss by the following clergy:
Arctipriest ery Kev. Geo. Jllndelaug,.
C. PP. H., Provincial of the Society of
tiie Most Precious Hlood and tlie nastor
ol the Immaculate Conception church, of
tills city.
Deacons of honor Rev. Anthonv Men-
tink, dean of the Sidney Deanery, of
Troy; and Rev. Augustine Sieffert. (I. PP.
s., ol Maria stein.
Deucon ol the Mass liev. Fred W.
Schueper. pi Adrian Mich.
Sutideacon Kev. I I 'li h F. Mueller,
'. i'P. is., professor of Philosophy af St.
tin ries seminary.
Master of Ceremonies Rev. Win. An
theny, private secretary to the archbish
op ot Cincinnati.
Minister ot the book Kev. Richard
Schweiterman. of Hurkettsville.
.Mimstei oi the candie Kev. Phi omen
Notlieis, of Sharpsburg.
.VI mister or the clergy Kev. Monslgnor
Finest Windthorst of Cincinnati.
Besides those assisting there were prob-
iilay twenty-five other priests from the
neighboring parishes and from St. Marys.
Wapakoneta. Minster. Lima and other
cities, occupying seats in the sanctuary.
roller tne services, me seminary luind.
consisting of a number of students, ren
dered an excellent open air conceit.
CHANGE IN RULE
Made by tlie Bureau of .luiiior Ton-
tests of Interest to lorn Hoy
Contestants
Rule 8 of the Corn Growing Rules
has been revised to read as follows:
"The contestant shall assist I'n'do-
ing or shall do all tne work on the
acre, such as planting, manuring, fer
tilizing, plowing, preparing the seed
bed and all the other work up to and
including the time of planting, but
from the time the corn is planted up
until the time of husking, the contes
tant shall do all the work on the
acre. The contestant may have as
sistance In husking the corn."
The reasons for changing this rule
are:
First Not many farmers tan af
ford to give an exclusive acre of soil
within a given field for corn to be
worked in special manner in the
contest.
Second Most boys assist In the
work of the entire corn crop of the
farm "and do not have opportunity
to prepare an acre exclusively.
Third It is a difficult matter to
have some person prepare a single
acre of soil for corn separate and
apart from the rest of the land plant
ed in corn.
Fourth Some work before plant
ing is often too heavy for a boy to do
alone.
Fifth There seems to be a gener
al demand among the farmers for a
change in the rules owing to the fore
going reasons.
Sixth Boys and girls can enter
corn growing contest up to and in
cluding June 15th if they have done
all the work, or have assisted In do
ing all the work, up to and including
the planting, and have done all the
work after the .planting has been
done.
For poisoned
wounds . use Han-
ford's Balsam.
BY
The Ikiii Me of Chai'les Cummins, on tl
old Inireey Ihirelt farm, southwest
this city, was destroyed by lire lut Fi
day morning, near tin noon hour. Tl
lire Is supposed to have started from
defective lllle.
(inly a pari of th house-hold goods
ttere Mtv'ed. The loss Is estimated ut
TIimiiI, covered hy 7il insurance.
GARAGE UNDER CONSTRUCTION
DAMAGED BY STORM
The new brick garage tnat Henry Sle
belt Is erecting on West Market street
wu.H damaged dining the severe wind
storm here last Saturday night.
'I'll ewlnd shuttered the two side walls
causing a loss of Jlnu. The building wus
nearly completed, being ull dune except
I lie root.
DR.
MILLER WINS SUIT IN
SPRINGFIELD COURT
THE
Dr. I). II. Miller yesterday afterniHin
received a telegram from his attorrie
at Spiinclleld staling that u Jury in the
Common Pleas Court had returned a ver
llct in Ids favor In a damage suit. The
me:.suKe did not stale tne amount. Si-v
nl years ago Dr. Miller received from
A. Stewart ol the him of Martin
A,
Stewart, contractors on the local sewe
b, a Davis automobile, in payment of
ilnetor hill owed him hy Stewart. Tw
i.-t.s al'ti-r the iniicliini- had been turne
over to him, creditors oi Siewart on th
Spilnglleld Job Httached Ins belongings,
I lie attachment Included the Davis lua
bine. .Miller llled an answer in ciu.-
pclMinn lor .iL'na damages.
DAN CUPID VICTIMS
BRANDTS HEPKENOFF
Dr. Theodore I'.rundts, of this city and
Miss Mabel Ilcrkenolf, daughter of Mr
and Mrs. A. W. Ilerkeiiolf, of Minster
were united 111 marriage at the C.iihelii
church at ten o'clock last Tuesday morn
'ng.
Monsigncur Dr. Windthorst, of t'incin
null. Very Rev. Geo. Ilindelang. of this
city and Father F.ugene Grim, of .Minster
outdated.
The couple were attended by the hrH
sister, Miss I. Milan HeikenofT end Miss
.Maine Kane, and they were accompanied
hy Alfred I lerkenoff und Frank Summers
of Minster.
After the ceremony the happy couple
were driven to tlie grooms handsomely
lurmshed home oil West rayetle street
where they received the congratulations
of the guests, including relatives and
friends from Cincinnati. Cleveland ld
.vi inster.
Tlie wedding feast was served at Mer-
celinu Park Hotel, winch had been pre
arranged lor the occasion. J. H. Krns-
bergcr was in charge ol the elaborate
decorations. The feast is one that will
long be rememliered by those in atten
dance, not only lor the least in itself,
hut for the toasts und musical features
rendered.
Alter an extended eastern weddlug
tour, Mr. and Mrs. Biandts will ha ut
home in this city.
MCKIRNAN O'NEIL
Mi.n Huzel O'Neil, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. John O'Neil, of .Mercer, and Dan J
.Mi R'irnun, son of Mr.s Julia McKir-
nan. of this city, were united in mar
riage at the Catholic parsonage on the 4th
Inst.
The bride was becomingly dressed In a
going awav suit of green taffeta with
hat to correspond, while the groom wore
the conventional black. Ihe bride's at
tendant wore a suit ol navy blue taffeta
1 tie ring ceremony was used, with
Rev. George Hindclung olllciating. Miss
Mayme and Frank McKirnan, sister and
In-other of tlie groom, attended the wed
ding.
The nanny couple leu alter tne wedding
on a short automobile trip and upon
their return will be at home on Fast An
liiony street.
BOWMAN TESTER
S. F. Bowman and Miss Iva Tester
both ol Kocklord, .were united In mar
riage last Wednesday morning at tlie
Presbyterian manse, liev. Alonzo Scfial-
t'er saying the nuptial ceremony.
- The young couple will make their home
at Portland, lnd., where tlie groom is
employed.
MARRIAGE LICENSES ISSUED
Dan .1. McKirnan, 2:1. laundrvman. Ce
lina. son of 11. J. McKirnan, and Hazel
N. o .Neil, housekeeper. Mercer, dau
ghter of J. F. O'Neil. Rev. Hlndelang.
lioscoe Shingeldei-ker. ill. contractor.
Rockford. son of Frank Shindeldecker,
ami Huzel Tigner, 21, housekeeper, KocK
lord, daughter of Lev i t'igner. Rev. Buz
zard.
Floyd Vining, 2fi, liveryman, Liberty
township, son ol Koliert inlng and Haz
el Cuit, 21, housekeeper, Korkford dau
ghter of V llliam Carr.
S F. Hovven, II, grain merchant. Rock-
ford, son ol John liowen. und iva i-j. res
ler. ,'l.'i, milliner, Rockl'ord, daughter of
ilson Tester.
SOCIAL
The Indies aid society of the M. !
church will be entertained this afternoon
by Mesdames Win, lingerer, Minnie Ste-
men and Ira Wagner, ut tlie church pal
lors. The young men of the Dramatic Club
were entertained last Alonuay evening hy
the girls of the club at the home of Miss
Mildred Lauduhn. Kast Livingston street
The evening was spent in social games
and discussing the possibilities of putting
on another play in tne near future.
The last plays given were highly receiv
hoosl the club in any next production
they may deem advisable to put on. Fav
ors of the evening fell to Hubert Bretz
and John Shiverdecker.
The Women's Foreign Mlsionary So
ciety met with .Mrs. R. L. Alattingly,
last Tuesday afternoon.
Several missionary papers were taken
up as follows:
China, Mrs. W. W. Lance; Mexico, Mrs.
W. C. Dick; Japan, Mrs. W. H. Bretz;
India, Mrs. R. L. Mattlngly, who illus
trated her talk by the use of images,
costumes, ect., brought by her from In
dia. A paper was also read on Korea, by
Mrs. Irene Miller, the reading being pre
pared by Mrs. Ed T. Miller, of Columbus.
Mrs. Roebuck. Mrs. Dibble. Miss Cyn
thia Newcomb and Mrs. W. H. Thorns
were tlie guests ot the cociety.
Refreshments were serv.ed.
Last Monday evening, Mesdames
Brookhart, J. D. Johnson, A. L. Sharp,
Ch.is. Howick and J. L. Berry, entertain
ed tlie members of the 1H14 club, togeth
er with their husbands at tne home of
Mr. und Mrs. E. J. Brookhart.
Mrs. Allen Bouslog, of Peru, lnd., was
a guest of the club. An enjoyable even
ing was spent.
The Shakespeare club Installed their
officers last Thursday evening at the
home of Miss Louise TouVelle.
The officers installed were as fololws:
Mabe iMcDonald, President.
Myrtle Crockett, Vice President.
Kern Raudabaugh, Secretary.
Lucy McDonald, Treasurer.
A splendid program was rendered af
ter which progressive rook was enjoyed.
Miss Myrtle Crockett gave a very inter
esting reading on "How to Prepare School
Lunches" and Miss Kalhyrn Cook gave an
excellent talk on "School Cafeterias."
A delicious luncheon was served after
which carnations were distributed among
the members. Guests of the club includ
ed Mrs. VV. I'l. TouVelle, Mrs. S. S. Scran
ton, Misses Nora Gust and Elizabeth
Metzner.
A complete surplrse was instigated by
R. B. Morrison upon his wife last Tues
day evening when he invited a number
of friends and relatives to spend the ev
ening. The surprise was occasioned by tl be
ing the twenty-first anniversary of their
wedding. The guests wer eas follows:
Mr. and Mrs. s. L. Kvans, Mr. and
Mrs. W. O. Huffman; Mr. and Mrs. James
McGee; Dr. and Mrs. Frank Avers; Mrs.
Mary Ayers; Mr. and Mrs. Ira Wagner:
Attorney and Mrs. P. K. Kenney.
HOUSE TOTALLY DESTROYED
FIRE LAST FRIDAY
.MANY
Well Known Citizens of Com
munity Cross Great Divide
Funeral of Bin. Jenkins Thlf
Morning, With Brief Servi
ces at the Ilorae.
MRS, WILLIAM JENKINS, AGED 6
Following u lingering Illness of cancer
of tlie stomach combined Willi an attack
of pneumonia recently contracted, Mrs.
William JeiiHns, West I-ogan street, wus
called to the Great lieyoiul at 8 o'clock
last Monday night.
Mrs. Jenkins had never' regained her
itrciifcth uitir having an attack of pneu
monia last January und since thut time
had been confined to the house. About a
week previous to her death she was taken
to the Otis hospital for treatment where
it was found that she ulso was a sur
fer of cancer of the .stomach. Nothing
could la- done tu relieve her und Monday
evening slit; was removed to her home
where she succumbed at H o'clock.
.one Wilson was born In West Vir
ginia, June 2. IM. On April i 1X74 she
..as united in marriage to Win. Jenkins
and since her marriage she lias ulvva.vs
lived in Meicer county. Slit- leaves a
liiiHliund und nine children, as follows:
t'lelle, l,ckoy, Cleve and .Mrs. Wm. Brown
living in Celina, Charles ut Coldwater,
Fail at Woll iJike. ill.. Kay al .Minion,
, and I-rank und Dallas at Weir, Kas.
.Mrs. Jenkins was a devoted wile and
loving mother und respected by ull who
knew her.
Uriel line-nil services will be held at the
bnkii!s home la 'J::fU this morning, after
which the remains will be take nlo Wa
ha..h. where luneral services will be
preached and burlul made.
MRS. MARY SNAVELY, AGED 55
.Mrs. Mary H. Suavely, wile of John A.
naveiy, j-exlou of Swamp College cem-
t-tery, and well and favorably known
In this community where she spent her
entire life, passed away at the home of
her daughter, Mrs. Andy Lincoln, on
West Logan street last Saturday morn
ing, aged C"i years. D.-ath was due to a
cancer.
Mrs. Suavely was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Aaron Kieler und was born
near this city on February 17. IMil. Tiie
-nerahie mother, .Mrs. r.nza Kieler, a
sident of this city, survives her..
Mrs. Suavely was twice married, rieing
first wedded to John G. Woods, of tills
ity. September 17. 1HH2. who died sever
al years ago. To this union seven chil
dren were born, live of whom survive-
Art und Win. Woods, ol this city: John
Woods, of Lima and .Mrs. Andy Lincoln
ind Airs. Harry Wagnei, ulso of this city.
iter second marriage was to jonn A.
Suavely, July :i, i:lu. To this union no
hildren were born. Mr. suavely sur
Ives to mourn the loss of a good wife.
The deceased is also survived by two
sisters and a brother Mesdames Wm
Hull and John Alexander, of this city, and
l-.llis Keifcr. of lndlananolls. Ind.
Funeral services wery conducted at the
Swamp College Christian Church Tues
y ulternoon and the remains laid to
in tlie cemetery at that place.
john McQueen, aged 75
John McQueen, uged 75 years, a Civil
War veteran, residing at Coldwater, drop-
lead from an attack of heart trouble at
l he Soldu.s Home at Dayton, last Tues
day momin..', where he had gone a week
revlous to visit old soldier friends.
Deceased was a native of Scotland, but
ame to this country and settled In Mer
er county, with his parents, when a small
hoy, where he always resided. He Is sur-
ived by seven children Clyde, of Monte
zuma; Oliltord und .Mrs. Agnes Snyder, or
oldwater: Koliert. re.Hling on tlie old
home farm in Butler township west of
'oldwater: Mrs. Alice Burns, Wabash;
nil Mrs. Pearl Lininger and Mrs. Nelle
'oweli. living west of this city. The re
mains were taken to Coldwater yesterday.
Funeral services will be held at the Mur
pheysbuig church this morning, and In
terment had at the Macedon cemetery.
MRS. ROSETTA BAKER, AGED 88
Mrs Rosetta Baker, aged 88 years.
lied yesterday morning, as the result of
dropsy, at the home of her son, Benja
min Maker, a mile and a half north of
'oldwater. She had been an invalid for
everal years.
eceaseu was a native or uermany ana
is survived hy four sons John, Benjamin,
linrge and Samuel, all residing near
oldwater. and one daughter, Mrs. r red
Utissi.-. of Minnesota. Funeral services
will be held at Swamp College, Sunday
morning.
MRS. JERMAH SHINGLEDECKER, 65
Mrs. Jerimah Shitgledecker, aged
65 years, died at the home of her
brother-in-law, Milo Shingledecker,
east of Rockford last Thursday
morning.
Death was the result of gangrene
poisoning, following an operation last
Sunday for dropsy.
She came from New York State
to this county about eighteen years
ago, and she with her husband were
preparing to move to Benton Har-
bon, Mich., to make their future
home when the attack, necessitating
the operation, occurred.
Mrs. Shingledecker is survived by
husband and three children.
Funeral services were held last
Saturday afternoon at Mt. Olive
church. Burial in the Mt. Olive
cemetery.
MRS. EDWARD BRUNE
Mrs. Edward Brune died at her
home on North Sugar street last Fri
day night, following a sickness which
dates back to last October and which
later developed into dropsy.
She was born in New Bremen and
at the age of 25 she was united in
marriage to Edward Brune, of this
city, and since their marriage they
have resided here. She was a mem
ber of the Lutheran church.
Deceased is survived by her hus
band and a daughter, Emma Loree.
Funeral services were held here
Tuesday morning. The remains were
shipped to New Bremen for burial.
MRS. MARTHA YANEY
Miss Martha Yaney, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. II. Yaney, died last
Saturday at the home of her parents
north of Coldwater. She was about
twenty years of age. Death was due
to tuberculosis.
She is survived by her father, step
mother, several sisters and brothers.
MICHAEL STROH, AGED 83
Michael Stroh, a highly respected
citizen of Auglaize county, died at
his home near New Knoxville last
Sunday morning at the age of 83
years and 8 months.
He is survived by the following
children, his wife preceding him in
death about twelve years ago: Wm.
Stroh, St. Marys; Mrs. Ben Smith,
Hopewell township; Fred Stroh, near
New Knoxville; Mrs Edward Smith,
(Continued on Eighth Page)
CONFERENCE OF POSTMASTERS AT
WAPAKONETA
SIste.-n postmasters of the Fourth DIs
I rit met with Postmaster Scliulfer
Wapakonetu Monday ulternoon und ev
cuing for a discussion of mutters pre
I lining lo the postal service and an ex
change of ideas with u view ol lip-reusing
the eillci- iiey of tile various offices. Tli
iuiting was a very pleasant and prolit
able one and followed u six o'eilock dinner
ut the Steinberg hotel. Tlie next meet
lug will be held ut New Bremen in June
Those present mi rrldi.vs nte.-iing wer
I'oMtinusters Prince, PiiUa; Dale, Tro
Jennings. Went Milton, I-alin iistock, Ver
sallies; Deeter. Pleasant Hill; Sullivan
l.lmu; Lee, Sidney; Sager, Lal-'uvette
Hakcr. llariod: iloch. spein ervllle: Fry
singer, Rockford; Kunnlng, New Bremen;
.Siihdcruian, I t. lieeovery; Meyer, Cov
ington: Hunted, St. Marys; schaller
W apakoneta.
CHRISTIAN CHURCH AT WABASH TO
UNDERGO REMODELLING
H. J. Bolce, or Wubash, was In town
Saturday circulating a subscription paper
in tlie interest of the Chrlstiun church ut
Wubush.
The clan ih is in a run down condition
and improvements including the construc
tion of a basement In order to Instuil a
heating plant, belfry, concrete founda
tion, new windows ect., will require about
II'imo. The congregation laid already
raised u gund sized amount und Mr. Bolce
met with considerable success In this city
ANNUAL
Washington Township Field Day F.x-
ci-rises Will lie Held To-.Morrow,
Sat tit (lay.
The annual field day exercises held by
the Washington township high school
will be held tomorrow, Saturday, the 13th.
This event is a rare treat to the peo
ple of Ihe county who wish to enjoy a
good day of sport und amusement.
The field da sports of tlie W ashington
township high school never fail to be
.someiiung out of ihe oruinary anu mis
ve.ir all events will be uvenea up with
baud music.
In tlie contests that will ensue during
the day many old rivals as well us new
out esf ants w ill be seen ngnting lor sup
emacy. Survival of the fittest Is their motto fbr
the day and prizes will be awarded to
the winners.
A ball game between the alumni and
the high sc hool teams will be tlie closing
feature ol the duy.
RANK HASSMAN STRUCK
BY AUTO AT DAYTON
Frank Hussinun, son of Mrs. William
Hassmaii und brother of John Hussnian,
who is employed ut the Wenning barber
shop, this city, was seriously injured at
Dayton last Saturday night when he was
struck by an automobile at the crossing
of Third and Main streets. He was rush
ed to tli ! Miami Vulley Hospitul, where
it was found he had his leg broken near
the iiip.
Mrs. llassman received word of the ac
cident last Sunday morning and accom
panied by her son, left for that city Sun
day afternoon.
They found the injured man suffering
much pain, but resting as easily as could
be expected.
OFF TO OLD MEXICO
A car load of artillery and troops of
the lusth Post Artillery passed through
this city yesterday afternoon at 1:30 over
the 1-uke F.i ie enroute from Baltimore,
Maryland, to the .Mexican border.
COURT MATTERS
Tlie $170U damage suit of Maude Specs
against J. M. DeFord et al wus settled
last Monday, whe ntlie defendants' offer
to confess judgment in favor of pluintiff in
the sum of $100 and costs, was accepted
by plaintiff, adn Judge .Miller issued Judg
ment accordingly.
Judge .Miller last Saturday' Issued a de
cree (luieting title of plaintiff and order
ing cancellation of mortgage in the action
ol F. llreny Post vs. John Spangler et al.
Myrtle Raines was granted a divorce
from her husband Rsos Raines by Judge
.Miller on Wednesday. The decree was
granted on grounds of extreme cruelty.
Plaintiff was given custody of theii child
and assessed the costs ol the action.
After deliberating from 9:45 until 3:45
in the afternoon, the jury hearing the
case of Bowe Johnson against Joseph
Tinglev et ul erturned o verdict for the
plunitiffs in the sum of S402.63. Plaintiffs
hud sued for $146.27, with interest, on an
account for the sale of a gas engine and
supplies. Defendants in an answer in
cross petition asked credit for $100 for
old machinery traded in. and $75 credit
tor damage sustained. Three of the Jur
ors Frank Brunswick. J. M. Weaver and
(ieo. Rauli, did not concur In the verdict
rendered.
LIVE STOCK CREMATED NEAR FORT
RECOVERY
During a brief but severe electrical
storm Saturday evening, the large barn
belonging to David Rautz, one mile east
of Salamonia, was struck by lightning,
ami burned to- the ground.
The barn was 80 feel long by 40 feet
in width and was in extra good condi
tion. So rapidly did ine flames spread,
that it was impossible to save any of the
contents. Five horses and nve cows were
burned alive and their charred bodies
presented a sorry spectacle to the many
sightseers Sunday. Practically all of
tiie farm implements, harness and a large
quantity of seed was also destroyed.
Tlie insurance win cover uoout nan or
the total loss. Ft. Recovery Tribune-
Journal.
PROGRAM OF BUTLER SUNDAY
SCHOOL CONVENTION
The following prog'am will be ren
dered by the Butler township Sun
day school convention at the Spring
valley U. B. Church next Sunday af
ternoon at 2 o'clock. The officers of
the association are A. T. Kerns, pres
ident and Miss Lottie Steve, secre
tary: Song Congregation
Invocation Rev. D. S. Knisely
Song.. ". Congregation
Address "Mother". . . .0. J. Myers
Song Congregation
Round Table
Talk Rev D. S. Knisely
Miscellaneous Business
Song Congregation
Benediction
RALLY AM) MOTHER'S DAY
The Neptune Church of God Sun
day School will have rally day and
mother's day on Sunday, May 14, and
will render an excellent program.
AH past and present members of the
school are requested to be present,
and a cordial invitation is extended
to the public in gene.al. All married
ladies will receive a carnation.
lancr in Blood Poisoning
The danger in blood poisoning is
from delay, during which deadly
germs are carried through the sys
tem by the blood. Use Hanford's
Balsam of Myrrh to cleanse the
wounds and kill any germs. Have It
always ou hand for accidents.
DATES
Fixed for Hearing en Assess
ments on Pikes
Bonds Sold for Countj'i Portion
Inter - County Highway In
Marlon and Granville.
Tlie Hoard fixed the following dutes for
hi-arinK on ussessmeuls:
Micsse roud Improvement, May It at
11 a. in.
Buxton on May 15 ut 2.30 p.m.
Snuvely on May 15 at 1:30 p.m.
K.iudabuugh on May 16at 10a .hi.
Keller on Muy 15 at 8:30 a.m.
The commissioners of Augluize and
Miner counties found In fuvor of the
Fisher joint ditch and granted the im
provement us petlf loned for. They also
lixed July G at ID a m. as the time for
hearing ull lln.-il matters on the improve
ment. i he lloaid old' red the Hook dltcn In
Hlaikcreek township, sold ut public oul-
rv. ut the onnm-Morn-i a oltlce on May
1.1 ul 1 p. in and the luminary ditch on
the sume duy ut 2 p.m.
Four bids were received by the Board
st Friday for the sale of the $13,fiii0 Issue
of 1 per cent roud bonds for the Im
provement of the county s portion of the
ciinu-urt-enviiie iiuer-couniy highway,
etvveeii .Marion and ifranville town
hips from the Curthugenu pike south to
the county line. The bonds were award-
d to lil'eed, l.lllol A; Harrison, ol 111
innali, at their premium offer of )7U.
I'lie other bidders were all from Cincin
nati. The Davis Bertrum Co. oflerea
.-17 premium, (Him & Co. Jlj, and J. D.
,Ma)er Ar t o., :i7.iiU.
In the matter of the vucation of the
rauzer road in Hutler township, asked
for bv Henry Franzer et ul., the Board
lixed .May 31 at H u.m. as the time to go
upon tlie road and view same, and June
J3 at 1 p.m. as tin- tiinp for Una! hearing
Ihe latter meeting to lie held at the Com
missioner s office.
1 he loiiow nig mus were auowea last ,
rlday und uie now payable: j
elina Tel. Co., rent und toll.. . .31 21!
. A. Fllis. sal. humane agent.. ..25 00
Delia Brown, cleaning sur. office.. .. 6 09
.. It. Fisher, delivering ditch notices an
anil Wagner, sewer pipe I 00
. A. Now, placing sewer 4 00
rookville Bridge Co., repairing
bridge tloor 343 00
Hannah Picrson, ref under on Griffith
pike 40 S8
'olumhus B. B. Co.. supplies .. ..167 35
rson Wenning putting up election
booths 0 uo
O. Spltter, et al., mileage Judges
of election 34 00
)tlo Wltlen., eng. fees 12 23
u. 2-maucy, same t vu
I,. Hinton. same 37 50
J. Curler, same 6 00
AUTO SKIDS
DOWN RESERVOIR BANK AND IN
EXCITEMENT WOMAN JUMPS
AND FALLS UNDER CAR
Fori automobile, owned by Aionzo
Davis, residing on the Lewis Alt farm In
Liberty township, went over the west
bank of the reservoir roud Wednesday af
ternoon. Tlie car contained Mr. Davis, his wife
and children and had Mrs. Davis remain
ed in the machine, no one would have
been the worse for the accident. As It
was however, Mrs. Davis became excited
and Jumped from the machine, which
was falling down the hill, and the front
wheels passed over her body.
The unfortunate woman's right arm
was broken Just above the wrist and she
also received slight bruises on the body.
A passing automobile brought Mrs.
i la vis to the office of Dr. Ha ttery, where
her injuries were attended to.
The two small children of Mr. and Mrs.
Davis wepe in the hack seat and they
lauded safely with the machine at the
base of tlie hill.
Mr. Duvis only had the car about three
weeks and it had only been run abut
130 miles.
They had taken a trip to Mendon and
upon their return homo decided to take
a little spin along the bank road. When
they arrived at the stone road just north
of the old waste weir, Mr. Davis attempt
ed to turn around and in backing up
to muke the turn, it seems the clutch
refused to work und before the front
wheels could be svvuiuj around to keep
it in the road, It had started down the
tin n k. ,
The machine was not damaged In any
manner.
About a year ago Mrs. Davis and one
child were in a runaway and the child at
that time Jumped from the buggy, but
was not hurt. Mrs. Davis, however, re
mained in the vehicle and was almost
killed, being unable lo get about for sev
eral months.
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. primavesl, of Cleve
land, were among the guests in atten
dance at the Brundts-Herkoff wed
ding. They are spending the remainder
of the week us guests at the Queren
jean home and will probably return to
Cleveland Sunday.
Mr. an Mrs. P. E. Kenney and daugh
ter Claudia returned from Cincinnati on
last Sunday, where they had been called
bv the smious illness of Mrs. Kenney's
brother, liev. Father Schmidt, who was
suffering from a nervous breakdown.
They left him much improved Sunday.
Archbishop Henry Moeller, of Cinc'n
nati, was in tills city, last night, as the
guest of Kev. George Hindelang, pastor
of the local Catholic church. At half-past
seven last evening the Archbishop con
firmed a large class of children. This af
ternoon he confirms a class at Coldwater.
Archbishop Moeller has been in the
county since the first of this week and his
visits to the different parishes will con
tinue through next week.
CELINA HIGH SCHOOL
BASE BALL GAMES
The Celina high school base ball team
won their opening game last Friday when
they crossed bats with the New Bremen
high school team, at that place, the score
being 10 to 4.
Taylor featured In the third by getting
a home run.
Lefty Kohn, successor to Rube Malick
as star port sider, deserves credit for the
way he handled the sphere and had a
shut out victory up to the ninth inning.
The score :
Innings 123458789
Celina 0 2210311 010
New Bremen 0 0000000 44
Batteries Celina, Kohn and Hoffman;
New Bremen, Kbs and Raberding.
On Saturday the locals went to Van
Wert, where they suffered the first de
feat of the season.
A machine carrying two of the regu
lur plavers broke down on the way to
Van Wert and this together with a rot
ten deal on the part of the umpire Is at
tributed to the defeat. Van Wert Is to
play here tomorrow (Saturday) and the
locals will show them how to win a square
ga me. The score :
innings 123468789
Van Wert 1 1 2 1 0 0 0 4 09
Celina 0 0010600 0
Batteries Celina, Taylor, Bauer and
Huffman; Van Wert, Friesuer and Wise.
The Celina lads crossed bats for the
second time with the New Bremen team
when they met on the local ball diamon
lust Wednesday afternoon.
Parts of the game were very exciting,
but it seems that the New Bremen lads
are not fast enough for the game ended
with the score 9 to 4 ill favor of the lo
cals. Taylor, the local twlrler, pitched a nice
game. The feature of the game was
the batting of Homer Hole, wlio secured
four hit sout of four trips to the plate.
