o
THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 50.
UAIIRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY; MAY 12, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FRENCH FIRM
IN DEFENSE
Resisted Two German Ef
forts to Recapture Ground
on Dead Man's Hill
STRUGGLE TOOK PLACE
ON WESTERN SLOPE
Artillery Frustrated the At
tacks During the
; Night ;
Paris, May 12. Two attempts by the
Germans last night to recapture posi
tions on the western slope of Dead Man'
Hill, taken by the French on May 10,
were frustrated by French artillery fire.
The artillery is active about Avocourt
wood and the bombardment of the Doua-mont-Vaux
sections continues, according
to to-day's oflicial statement.
Germans Storm British Lines.
Berlin, via London. May 12. German
troops yesterday stormed several British
lines near Hull unfa, says the oflicial Ger
man army statement to-day.
PROTEST TO GREAT BRITAIN.
AUSTRIAN STEAMER
REPORTED SUNK
BY SUBMARINE
The Overseas News Agency Says It Has
Heard the Story That an Enemy
Ship Did It Without
Warning.
Berlin, via wireless, May 12. The Atis-tro-Hungarian
passenger steamer Dubro
vinik has been torpedoed and sunk by
an enemv submarine in the Adriatic, says
the Overseas news agency. The steamer
.was not armed and was torpedoed witl
out warning, says the announcement
DUBLIN IS RELIEVED
That British Government Has Finished
with Executions.
Dublin, via. London, May 12. Premier
Asquith arrived to-day. His program
called tor a conference with the depart
mental chiefs, followed by a consultation
with General Maxwell in regard to the
military situation.
It is reported probable that a proola
niation will be issued shortly abolishing
the martial law, the provisions of which
have been modified greatly the last few
days.
The situation 5n some parts of th
provinces is said to be still rather dis
turbed and it is likely that military con
trol of these districts will be continued
for some time, longer.
Premier, Asquith intends also to mee
several deputaions of citizens to learn
first hand their ideas concerning the re
construction of the destroyed portions o
Dublin.. Relief is apparent among the
population at the cessation of executions,
which were beginning to cause consider
able agitation.
MAY USE FORCE.
To Take Serbian Troops Across Greece
to Saloniki.
Berlin, via wireless, May 12. The en
tenta powers have decided to resort to
force, if necessary, to transport the her
bian troops at Corfu across Greek ter
ritory to the Saloniki front, the Overseas
News Agency says.
BOY-ED HONORED.
Former German Naval Attacks at Wash
ington Decorated By Kaiser.
London, Mav 12. A Central News. dis
patch from Amsterdam says that Captain
Karl tsoy-hd, formerly uerman naval at
tache at Washington, has been ilecorated
with the order of the Red Eagle, third
class, with swords, by the einpeior.
CONVENTION HELD AT BETHEL.
North Windsor County Sunday School
Association.
Bethel. May 12. The annual conven
tion of the North Windsor County Sun
day School association was held yester
day in the Congregational church, with
forenoon, afternoon and evening sessions.
About 120 persons from out of town at
tended and they were the guests at din
ner and supper, served at the Harrington
parlors, of four village (Sunday schools.
Walter L Wright of White River
.Tunetiun, the retiring president, was "in
the chair throughout the sessions. He
has been a very faithful chief officer of
the association for many years.
Officers for the ensuing year were elect
ed as follows: President, Rev. A. H. Mor
rill. D. !.. of Woodstock; secretary, Miss
Marion Webster of Hart land; assistant,
Mrs. I .aura A. Dutton of Royalton;
treasurer, C. II. Noyes of Wilder; ele
mentary superintendent. Mis Mary War
ren, .North romtret; secondary-. Miss
Minnie Metoalf, South Royalton; adult.
Mrs. Y.. S. Brailev. Kast Barnard; home
d.wartment W. M. Wright, White River
Junction; teacher training. Miss Isabel
laskev. Woodwork; temperani-e." M
F. A. Keier. Rochester! missionary, Miss
Hattie M Fay, South Royalton. The
chairman on the committee on nomina
tions was Kv. Benjamin Swjft of Wood
stock and the chairman of the committee
on resolution was Rev. C. F. Echterbeck
er of Quechee.
An unexpected feature of the evening
program was an address by Rev. Robert
C. 'Wilson, an Episoopal missionary from
China, ho recently arrived here for a
Tear's furlough. The addresses of Rev.
Dr. W. A. Brown of Chicago, a sotTetary
of the International Sunday School asso
ciation, were much enjoyed. State Su
perintendent C. A. Boyd of Burlington,
State Superintendent of the Horn De
partment M-m. W. M. Wright of White
Fiver Junction and Stt Elementary Su
perintendent Marion F. Sltckney of Barre
wet prominent on the program. Mr.j
F. C Pntimtn mang at the evening seKmJ
Mrs. W. C Clifford was chairman of th
corcKjf.ee oa ect':rU:caiect.
Because Red Cross Supplies Shipments to
Germany are Refused.
Washington, D. C, May 12 The Amer
ican government ia preparing to proteit
to Great Britain against its policy of re.
fusing to allow the shipment of hospital
supplies by the American Red Cross to
Germany and her allies. Secretary LatiH
ing received a letter yesterday from for
mer President Taft, chairman of the cen
tral committee, of the Red Cross, urging
such action and it was learned last night
that the matter would be taken up with
the British government in the near fui
tu re.
Mr. Taft's letter revealed for the first
time that Great Britain formally had
declined to issue permits for shipments
of supplies to the central powers except
when intended for American hospita
units. This exception, Mr. Taft wrote
was worthless because on account of lack
of funds the Red Cross had maintained
no units in the belligerent countries since
ust October.
The Red Cross regards the attitude of
the British government as in violation
of the Geneva convention, to which the
Cnited States and all the present bel-
igerents are signatories, and holds that
the American government has the right
to insist on observance of the treaty,
Mr. Taft expressed the hope that the
British position was based on an er
roneous belief that the central powers
had failed to agree, to a reciprocal
course in the treatment of articles lor
the sick and wounded.
Since the beginning of the present
war, the letter SHid, "the American tied
'ross his invited contributions of money
and supplies with which to aid the
wounded and suffering of all the bellig
erents. We have shipped to the Red Cross
societies of each belligerent hospital sup
plies contributed to us for that purpose.
We have found no difficulty in sending
such articles to the entente allies. We
have had to obtain permits from Great
Britain for the shipments to the Red
Cross of the central powers. Until Sep
tember, 1915, there was substantially no
delay in the granting of these permits
by Great Britain. Since that time we
have had much difficulty in securing
them, and the supplies donated in kind
and designated for the use of the central
powers have accumulated in our ware
house in Brooklyn. A permit was grant
ed for only one shipment since that time
in January of this year.
"Through your department we are now
in receipt of a communication from the
British government announcing that it
does not intend to permit any further
shipment, unless it is a shipment to our
own hospital units in a territory of the
central powers. This exception amounts
to no concession for the reason that as
the British government was advised in
August last, after the first of October,
for lack of funds, we were able to mam
tain no hospital units in any of the bel
ligerent countries.
"The authorities of the American Red
Cross believe that under the Geneva con
vention, to which the Cnited States and
all the belligerent powers are signatories.
the United States has the treaty right
to insist that articles serving exclusively
to the sick and wounded in the form of
hospital supplies, shipped by the Ameri
can Red Cross to the Red Cross of the
central powers, shall not be declared con
traband, but shall be allowed safe con
duct to their destination."
SCOTT ORDERED
TO COME BACK
And General Funston to Go
to Headquarters at' . .
San Antonio
AFTER THE FAILURE
OF THE CONFERENCE
CLAIMS WILSON TOLD
HER OF HIS LOVE
Miss Laura Johnson, Plaintiff in $20,000
Breach of Promise Suit Against Rev.
, C. C. Wilson, Tells Story of
Their Relations.
Scott and Obregon Were
Unable to Reach an
Agreement
Washington, D. C, May 12. Upon re
ceiving word that the border conference
had closed without reaching an agree
ment, Secretary of War Baker announced
that he had directed General Scott to re
turn to Washington and General Funston
to go to headquarters at San Antonio.
Renewed indications were given that
the administration has no intention of
withdrawing American troops from Mex
ico until it is definitely established that
further border raid danger is removed.
President Wilson will take no further
steps until General Scott returns from
the border. The administration considers
the next move up to Carranza.
Secretary of War Baker announced
after the cabinet meeting that no change
in the. Mexican policy had been decided
upon. No new orders for military organ
izations to go to the border were in con
templation and no general intervention in
Mexico is being thought of at present.
CONFERENCE FAILED.
Scott and Obregon Unable to Reach An
Agreement.
FJ Paso, Texas, May 12. After almost
Boston, May 12 Trial by jury of the
$20,000 breach of promise suit of Miss
Laura Louise' Johnson of Minnesota
against Rov. Charles Chise Wilson, rec-
tor of the Church of Our Saviour of Ros-
lindale, was begun yesterday in the fed
eral district court before Judge James
M. Morton, jr. This is the first breach
of promise suit that has ever been tried
in the federal courts in Massachusetts.
The court room was crowded with wit
nesses and spectators, -large number
of the latter being njade up of Kev. Mr.
Wilson's parishioner. The suit arose
out of an alleged premise to marry, said
to have been made py Rev. Mr. Wilson
in July, 1012, when he was assistant
rector of St. Paul's dhureh at Burlington,
Vt., and when Miss Johnson was in Bur
lington prior to he leaving for York
Beach after having (left the University
of Vermont. ,
In his opening remarks to the jury,
Attorney Willard thl how Miss John
son of Minneapolis fame to Burlington
in 1912 and entered" the Uni versify of
Vermont as a specia( student. She took
rooms with a Miss Ma hie at Mrs, Lane's
on College street, owing to the crowded
conditions in the dormitories. She first
met the defendant at a New Year's party
at Fort Ethan Allen on December 31,
1012. Mr. Willard Mid the defendant!
had invited Miss Johnson's room-mate
to the party, but became quite atten
tive to .Miss Johnson during the course
of the evening.
Mr. Wilson made, , frequent calls on
Miss Johnson and in January declared
his affections for her, the attorney added.
Later in the same year, when Mr. Wilson
was in Arlington, Miss Johnson called
on him and he again called told her of
his love. Mr. Willard went on to tell
how Miss Johnson could not understand
why the defendant did not write to her.
then she wrot her mother who came
Then aho wrote her mother who came
Mr. Wilson in Arlington. . Miss Johnson
was left "alone with tine defendant who,
on bended knees," aga&i declared his love
for her. But Mr. Wilson added that he
had a higher call, that of celibacy. She
left him and next heard of him when
FOREST FIRES
e
CLAIM LIVES
John Drew Is Believed to
Have Perished at Mid
dleton, N. H.
ANOTHER DEATH
AT NORTHFIELD, N. H.
Benjamin Pettingill Tripped
in Climbing Over a
Wire Fence
WOMAN'S DEATH
BELIEVED DUE
TO A POISON
Middleton, N. H., May 12. .John Drew
volunteer fire fighter, is believed to
have lost his life in a forest fire whiot
burned 1,000 acres of woodland last night
Drew was last seen making his wa
through the burning brush to telephone
for more help. Middleton Corners build
ings were threatened for a time.
two weeks of discussion the conferences
of Generals Hugh L. Scott, Frederick
unston and General Alvaro Obregon,
.neiiaii numtarr 01 war, uvci .iuir.Mii rarvaA . r..,. .i;nni fr,n
4 rnAn licinailinna In lnTiin camA trt R II I I ' I r W
emi ihsi nigiit wn.oiii n ngreeiuriik. ,.,,, tl. ,.,,, .,,
n-i - . . ... ...... J Vs.. ..I. I - "
... , . . , I Miss Johnson was the first witness
me Aim-Mean mm uc in-io K-'"""- .;.! .h. ,. ,. sk. A(nAa..t .t
ments to be settled through diplomatic F.. ... . . , . . . .
.hannula I . 1
, ", , ,, . . or ten dances with him.
i ne end or me negotiations rime alt
er two conferences had been nelrt'Tcs-
terday. The first began at 10 o'clock in
the morning and lasted until 1 p. m
when a recess was taken until 4 o'clock
to permit General Obregon to keep a
'We sat together on the wav home.
On our arrival, he picked me right up
in his arms, and carried me to the door."
He asked permission to call and the
finally consented, the witness further
stated. He also tried to embrace her,
DIDN'T STRIKE WIFE.
Nor Did He Choke Her or "Smother" Her
with a Quilt.
The contested divorce suit of Israel
Schwartz vs. Nellie Schwartz of Montprl
ier was started in Washington county
court yesterday afternoon after nearly
two days of Inactivity' by the coiut.
Mrs. Schwartz seeks to obtain a sep
aration from bed and board and Mr.
Schwartz sues for an absolute divorce
and asks for' the custody of four minor
children.
Mr. Schwartz, who is a tailor, was on
the stand several hours yesterday ait
ernoon and tostilied that his wife has
struck and scratched him at many differ
ent times. He had never mistreated her
nd did not retaliate when thus attacked
He insisted that his wife wa very ex
ravagent and that because of her ex
travagance he had been unable to sae
$1500 which he had obtained from the
sale of property.
The witness testified that he had al-
wavs provided for his family to the bet
f his ability, t ailed bark to the ntund
his forenoon in rebuttal, Mr. Schwartv
enicd that he had ever struck or choked
is wife, nor had he ever smothered her
with a quilt, as evidence introduced
tended to show.
Dr. Percy L. Templeton told on the
stand yesterday afternoon of being called
to the Schwartz home one morning by
eighbors and he found Mrs. Schwartz.
n a state of collapse. Hp was told by
er that her husband had smothered her
ith a quilt and he believed her story
nd made a complaint to the states at
urnev. IJr. lempleton related another
nstance when Mrs. Schwartz had beea
treated bv her husband.
Schwartz explained the story of his
ifes illness at tli time dewrilwd by
the physician by saying that she fell i.j
the floor when she giasped his fur coat
nd he let go of the coat, slie losing her
balance. He said she tore her hair and
screamed that she was being murdered.
Other witnesses who testified yester
day were. Louis Gould, Mrs Cohen, son
and daughter. Some parts of the testi
mony were extremely amusing and the
court officers were kept busy rapping
the spectators to order.
) 1 i .. .1. 1 . ... . .
nini-n engagement. ciiarp on w iioui ,.. ... ,,u ; v: , ,i .
the discussions were renewed. After two ..,,.. ..., ' k.. . , , ..
hours and a half, however, they were
Mexican suD-sccreiary oi loreign mi air.
tion and he dsclare jisjs love for me,"
aid the witneta. .
, Miss Johnson then told of frequent
emergea iroin me private car occ.p.eu . ml of Mr WIW, dini with
by Generals Scott and Funston, walked . . .
rapidly down the. railroad yards, climbed
into his waiting automobile and drove
away.
General Obregon was accompanied to
his machine bv General ruaston. The
Mexican conferee's manner was abrupt
and vexed, but General Funston smiled
cheerily as he bade him good-bye.
General r unston re-entered the car.
Then Col. Robert E. Lee Miehle. aide
to General Scott, came out and distrib
Ness house.
In June Miss Johnson moved to Mr. and
Mrs. Guy B. Horton's on Buell street.
The defendant called on ber there and
during the call, she said, she allowed
Mr. Wilson to kiss her. Asked What
they talked about. Miss Johnson said,
turning to the jury:
"I felt I loved him so that, as per
haps some of you know, we did not need
4i inllr ' W. uera i honnv itiat in tin
utd copies of the following statement to L ther U e t 0 the' WTien
the waiting newspaper men: h,. ... : t. i:.. .i
We wish to announce that, after sev-1 m. . .,, ..
erai comerencee, inarseu tnrongnout i .
11
NOT SATISFIED WITH AWARD.
Clara B. Lowe Took Her Case Into Su
preme Court.
The May term of supreme court ill
probably Ix- adjourned late thi after
noon, the court having Iven in seiin for
two week, during which time about 20
caees have been argued, including i or
seven from Washington county. Th
case taken up to-day ws Clara R. ?..
vs. Vermont Savinjrx hank, general a
umrit. This case stsrtl in the courts
nearly 13 years ago. At the Srptemlier
term of county rurt the defendant paid
into court tl.7.rrt..M and later deroi:ed
fl 13.12 more. The tase wa tried b.V
Jury and a verdict for plaintiff of l!
&.'nMM was returned, the ptsintifT to re
cover the ro"t of the trial. The plsin
tifT fled eiceptwns, having sued for a
larger amount. j
Yeterday afternoon another Was'itnT-
trm count r re waa berd. II. R. P;.iivt.i!
'ranite i n. r. Terre Haute M"numciI
In h l-r r-urt the defendant re
with conspicuous courtesy and good will.
in which conferences mutual impression
were exchanged and information was
collected on the military situation on
av- i i: J i .1..
.w .v -, - - -'' 1,- ,a .' r.-w . 1 ... I . .. f " Mm.. 1 1 c . . .
. . , (WlAV otic Avn'Kr'.i r..,..,. V
conierees w euspe.m -ne wuirrrmx- u appcarance he her "his little
"r"11 ""v .., .. ....... ...... ... .
i
Then we would sit together.
One day when Mr. W ilson called she
happened to be in a Japanese kimono,
for which she excused herself. Hut, she
said, the defendant said it was all right.
f
Northneld, N. H., May 12. Benjami
Pettingill, a well-known resident
Northfield, was burned to death yester
day afternoon while fighting a forest tire
near the depot.
In climbing a barbed wire fence he
caught his foot and fell to the ground
where the fire was raging. His clothm.
ignited and before assistance reache
him he was suffocated and his body
burned to a crisp. Dr. T. H. Huekins o
Tilton and the selectmen were summoned
the body remaining where it fell pending
their arrival.
Mr. Pettingill was about Go and was
formerly a resident of Franklin for
many years. A son, Fred Pettingill, re.
sides in Franklin. His wife survives.
The fire, supposed to have started from
sparks from a passing train, is eti
mated to have spread over 500 acres of
territory. It is not yet under control
Help was summoned from Tilton and
Concord. Much valuable timber, includ
ing several lots owned by Lcroy Aglincj
of Canterbury, have been ruined.
SPARKS FLEW WIDELY
der that these may be able, through their
respective foreign departments, to eon
elude this matter; and that the ending
of these conferences does not mean, in
anv way, a rupture of the good relations
of friendship between the conferees nor
between the respective governments.
(Signed)
"A. Obregon,
"H. 1 Scott.
"Frederick Funston.'
AMERICAN FARMER SLAIN.
Mexican Assassins Near Mercedes, Texas,
Escaped.
Rrownsville, Tex., Mav 1?. Curtis
Bavles. an American farmer, was shot
and killed late last night a short dis
tance from his home near Mercedes, Tex.,
bv a land of four or Ave Mexicans who
succeeded in escaping, presumably to the
Mexican side of the Kio Grande.
Whether the Mexicans came from the
south side of the river has not been de
termined. Thirty I'nitcd States caval
rymen with a posse of citirens from
Mercedes started in pursuit, but late lt
night had found no trace of the band.
About the first of Julv, 1913, he rati
fied his love for her on an afternoon
when he called at her room in Mrs.
Horton's house. Miss Johnson said:
He took me in his ar-js and kissed
me and kissed me."
Counsel for the defendant objected lo
letters between her and her-parents and
these were all excluded by Judge Mor
ton.
Miss Johnson ssid she went to York
Beach later in the summer af.J fa vex!
ten davs, seeing Mr. Wilson in Boston
when she returned. She further testi
fied that after she Tcturned West, not
hearing from him. she wrote to him, but
he evaded her questions. Because of
this, she testified, she lost weight and
could not eat or sleep.
She returned to Burlington in 1P1." to
pet spiritual consolation from Dr. Bli.
In the latter part of ts-tober she re.
ceived a letter from Miss .tfahie in which
was enclosed a newspaper clipping an
nouncing Mr. Wilson's engagement 10
another woman.
FINE TIMBER BURNED.
Together with Unoccupied House in Toa-n
of Rockingham.
Bellows Falls, May 12. Fanned by a
forty-mile-an hour wind a forest fire
burned over an area more than a mile
square in the northern part of the town
of Rockingham yesterday aftTnoon. It
destroyed an unoccupied house and barn
owned by Senator Nat L. I'ivill, and
several other houses were saved only by
hard work on the part of firemen and
volunteers from Charlsto n, N. H., and
Bellows Falls.
The fire started from sparks from the
chimney of a saw mill owned and oper
ated on the lot by U C. Lovell and Wil
liam Workman, who have been stilting
Umber since March. The bearT air.l
caused the fire to burn rapidly and the
area which waa burned contained some
particularly good pine timber. In it a
also one of Uie best stands ef hickory
in southern Vermont. The densr smoke
remained e!oe to the grrmnd making it
dilScult to fight th fire. During the. aft
ernoon burning brands were blown lialf
a mile over the Connecticut river ami
ne,tated mn In Clarlestnaa being
mlVd to te Kendall fsrm. About 6
o'clock another fire tartl (mm th-
FIREMAN JUMPED OFF.
James J. O'Neil Injured While Respond
ing to Call.
Burlington. May 12.--James J. O'Neil,
firenmn at station one, received injuries
yesterday afternoon when he jumped
from the automobile truck on the Shel-
burne road. Though his injuries are not
thought to be very serious, be waa taken
to the Mary Fletcher hospital, and will
probably not be discharged from there
for a ly or two.
A call was wnt nto this city aking
Chief Storkwell for help in extinguishing
a blse in the nod near the Smith farm
at tle corner of Sift and Spear streets.
hich was getting very closo to the farm
buildings. The truck from station one
and the chief in his car started for the
fire and when the truck reached Potash
brook on the Shclburne road, just south
of the Home for IV'titute Children, the
hoi.I of the truck blew- off. Kiremaa
O'Neil was riding in the hack of the
truck, and. whi'e it is not definitely
known whv he left it. it is presumed ;
that he junpe1 on to get te hovt. The
principal injuries ucm to be to his face.
The polie ambulance in this city was
telephoned for hut brfor it arrived Mr.
And Endangered Property Near Burning
Barn at Gospel Village.
For more than an hour early last even
ing the fire department sought to subdue
a hay barn fire and protect surrounding
property on and near the Richardson es
tate on Camp street. At (1:15 o'clock
general alarm was turned in from box 34
at the corner of Hill and Washington
streets and a few moments before a still
alarm had called out the auto fire truck
All of the wheeled apparatus was
brought into play and in the face of a
terrific west wind, th firemen had their
work mapped out for them in preserving
adjoining property. The barn, a frame
affair, and several tons of hay were de
stroyed, along with a dozen hens, the
property of W:illiam Innis.
1 he barn had stood for many vears in
a small ravine near Edgewood and just
east of the home of Thomas Blann. A
few moments after Mr. Innis had left the
building, the fire was discovered. From
the outset, it was seen that the structure
would go and a part of tho fire fighting
force was directed to watch other prop
erty in the path of the wind-blown
parks. One stream of water and some
times two, played on the barn fire until
the all-out sounded at fl:40 o'clock. The
fire communicated to the roof of F. F..
Langley s house in Edgewood and but for
prompt attention there would have been
serious result there. Several trees, lum
ber piles and the grass between the bam
and Edgewood caught afire, but the blazes
were extinguished with water. At 10
o'clock last night members of the fire de
partment were again summoned to the
scene of the barn fire to extinguish a
blaze in the hav.
The hay and the little building that
boused it were the property of the Rich
ardwm estate. The loss is not covered
by insurance. Just how the blaze orig
inated could not be ascertained. Mr. In
nis was with his chickens 20 minutes be
fore the fire was discovered. He did not
see any traces of fire and while there.
he told Acting Chief Carpenter, he. had
no oceaston to use matches. He is not
smoker, either. It is surmised that
small boys or tramps may have gained
access to the barn.
Mrs. Virginia Giovanelli of Third Street
Was Taken 111 Yesterday Morning and
Died at 5 p. m. Autopsy Performed
Sho Didn't Want a Doctor.
On advice from the state's attorney's
office and after conference with Dr. C. F.
WTiitnny of the state laboratory of hy
giene in Burlington, an autopsy is to be
performed by officials of that institution
on the vital organs of Mjs. Virginia Gio
vanelli, who died early last evening at
her home on Third street, under condi
tions which seemed to indicate that some,
poisonous substance had been taken into
the system. A preliminary examination
conducted in Barre is said to have re
vealed some substance in the stomach
which might have been paris green, al
though the physicians were not prepared
to state definitely.
Mrs. fiiovanelii had ben in her usual
health, it is said, up to yesterday morn
ing, when she waa taken ill. During the
course of the day she vomited and was
in considerable distress but was unwill
ing to have a physician called. At length
her condition became so muctt worse tha
a phvsieian was called at 4:30. The
patient then was near death, liaving but
little pulse; ami she passed away half
hour after the arrival of the phys
GEO. B. MILNE
DIED IN DENVER
Member of Boutwell, Milne
& Varnum Co. Had Been
There the Past Year
' '
WAS ONE OFBAR sS
LEADING C .ZENS
an
cian. The latter called in tho city health
officer and a preliminary examination
was held, as the result of which it was
decided to consult with the state s attor
nev's office and then jvith the state lab
oratory. It is said that tho woman1
lungs indicated that sue had tuberculosis
Mrs. Giovanelli was a widow, her hus
band having died a vear ago. She wa
41 years of age and leaves a daughter,
who is 13 years old. ho far as known
there are no other near relatives in this
vicinity. Recently she had been main
taining herself by keeping a few board
ers.
Mrs. Giovanelli had been a resident of
Bawe for the past 17 years, coming here
from Italy with her husband, John G10
vanelli, for a number of years a well
known member of the Barre Citizens
band.
The funeral will be held at the home on
Third street Saturday afternoon at
o clock and interment will be mado in
Hope cemetery. Mrs. Giovanelli's daugh
ter, Alba, was with her mother during
her illness and a cousin of the woman,
lohn Cammuzzi, took charge of the fu
neral arrangements, the body being re
moved to the Perry A Noonan under
taking establishment on Depot square,
where the remains were prepared for
burial, after permission had been given
by the health officer. The woman had
been ill twelve hours.
It is probable that the report from the
state laboratory will not be received for
two davs.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
DOCTRINE EXPLAINED
Francis J. Fluno of Oakland, CaL, Ad
dressed Audience in Howland Hall
Last Evening and Gave In
teresting Discourse.
"Christian Science and Christian Sci
entists" was the subject of an interest
ing lecture delivered in Howland hall
last evening bv Dr. Francis J. Fluno, C.
He Had Been'ruerested in
Many Public En
terprises , , .
BOARD OF TRADE ACTIVITIES.
To Co-operat in "Clean-Up" Campaign
and to Encourage Publicity Tours.
At a meeting of the directors of the
Barre Board of Trade last evening a com
mittee was appointed, consisting of E. M.
lobin. chairman. A. R. Bruce. H. L.
Campbell and C. F. Millar, to confer with
the Parre Woman s club and the Barre
itv council in regard to completing ar
rangements for a "Clean-up day'' in
Barre the campaign to be held in the im
mediate future.
The directors also voted to request the
memtwis of the committee on transmrta-
ion and ratlroa.is to confer with the au
thorities of the Central Vermont Railwav
t in regard to keeping their passenger
station open and better lighted during
ne evenings and nights.
A committee was also appointed to
make arrangements for a series of puh-
icitv. or better acquaintance, tours to
nearby towns, to be participated in dur-
ng the coming summer months. As out
incd at the meeting, this campaign of
publicity will be very attractive and in
teresting. The committee is made up ss
follows: A. P. Abbott, chairman. F. P.
juM. B. W. Hooker. F.. M. Tobin. G. ..
Bond. !. M. Barclav, G. R. Vamum and
W. (J. Rcvnolds.
WILL NOT ANSWER
brands in the nnderHruh -n a farm in
t ied the verdnt, tie tU&tiJ appealing. tijietoa, oaacd b.v Oor-t G. lk to. that L B-t erku!j; us; ,!,
tVNeil tlcn into the machine f
(tsrence M"Trn, hh happened t be
r"'re. and m r'd to the Msrr
P.f,-wr rpital. hve t rrr-orted went mil c-n '
ut Germany Win Confer with Ambassa
dor Gerard.
Copenhagen, via London. May li Ae
mrding to the r-crlin Tageblatt. crrrtny
ill tiot eend an ansaer to the lt
.tmrrms tte. it the lrmsn gm-
mth trraid regarding
D., of Oakland, Cal. f)r. Muno is a
member of the board of lectureship of the
irst tTiurch of Christ, Scientist, in Bos
on, and is a man well qualified from ex
perience and from his ability as a speak
er to deliver such a lecture. Nearly 200
followers of the faith were present to
ear the doctors message.
The speaker was introduced bv James
. Howe, who said: "Friends, some fifty
ears ago a New England gentlewoman,
Marv Baker Eddv, rising healed from her
death sickness, after long study discov
ered the principle by which her healing
had been accomplished. She did not wish
to keep to herself the knowledge of this
wonderful Truth. .As a result she gave
Science and Health to the world to prove
it is no old religion, in a regeneration of
vears to come. That all of 11s here are
interested to know more about this sub
ject is evidenced by your presence here
to-night to hear one qualified to make
clear to honest inquiriers the promises of
Christian Science, ' and' it i my great
pleasure to present to vou Dr. Francis J,
Fluno."
Dr. Fluno spoke as follows:
"Christian Science is the law of Truth"'
(Science and Health p. 4S2I known, un
derstood, and found demonstrable. It is
the Science of being; the Science of Life.
It is the knowlediis of Truth and true
being, reduced to a system.
Its name defines It. for it. is pertectly
Christian; because it ooiintenanees no
wrong, either in theory or practice.
It is Scientific, for it admits of no er
ror, either in premise or conclusion. Its
name is just what it should be; te as
definite and significant as it can tie.
Christian Scientists are individuals,
who have found this Truth and found it
to he -ue. Found tliristlan Science and
found it to be scientific: are succeeding
in a measure to oemonsiraio it upon
themselves and others who come to them
for help.
Step by step they are learning their
wav out of bondage into liberty, out of
faults and failures into correctness and
right.
Finding their way more and more out
into the grand possibilities that aaait
them In the great Science of Truth and
true being of which they arc earnest ad-jtnj.
vocstes and exponent".
Christian Science is the law of Life,
Truth, and Ixive. understood and demon
strated, that hss come to the world; and
has come by rex elation to one who
through many years was hcinsr fitted to
receive it and give it to a waiting people.
Christian Science i being reoC!iied
and ackno lodced as Science; and heme
is being receded and taught Scientific
allv and undcrManditiglv.
tecstie it is Science, it i demon
.trble and is hcin? demon t rated in
every nation of the iiilized world; andj
hecsiie it is Science, and can he, and is I
Gcorgo B. Milne, one of Barre's best
known business men and long identified
with the granite industry, died in Denver,
Co!., yesterday. A telegram received by
James M. Boutwell of the firm of Bout-
well, Milno & Varnum, brought to rela
tives and business associates here ilio
first Information of his deuiito. Th
news eame unexpectedly to friends, who
had anticipated his early return to Barre,
after a sojourn of more than a year m
Colorado. With him in the hour of dsatli
were his wife a.id son, George Edmund
Milne. The body will be. brought U thi
city for burial next week, although it is
not known definitely on what day the
funeral party will arrive here.
George Barron Milne was born in Min
marr, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, a small
town 18 miles from the shire city of
Aberdeen, Dec. 31, 1857. the youngest of
15 children born to James and Ann
(Dickie) Milne. His father was the fore-
man of highway laborers, but as he ap
proached young manhood, the son did not
elect to follow in the footsteps of tho
elder Milne. Instead, at the tt2e of 17. .
he became an apprentice eranite cutter in
the Aberdeen shop of McDonald & Field,
at a salary ranging from 30 shillings to
8 for 10 periods of six months each.
With a thoroughness characteristic in his
business endeavors of after vears. ha
mastered every detail of the craft. For
two years he served as a journeyman in
ADerneen, coming to America in 18S0.
From New York he. went to St. Louis.
Mo., and for a year he engaged with
I'nited States engineers in canal con
struction on the Tennessee river in Ala
bama at Graniteville. Mo. Subsequently
e returned to the East and for nioro
than two years he worked in Vinal Ha-
en, Me., and on Fox Island, Me.
He came to Barre in March. 1S83, and
fter working as a granite cutter in the
plant of McDonald A- Buchan for two
.vears. he engaged in business with Wil
liam 8. Wyllie, the two men conducting a
manufacturing plant 011 Granite street
under the firm name of Milne & Wyllie.
It was in 1880 that Mr. Milne had his
first experience in the quarrying end of
the granite industry. In that year Milne
1 Wyllie acquired the quarry located be
ween the Langdon quarry, so called, and
he Empire quarry in Graniteville. From
hat time forward his business career
seemed to be shaped by the growth of
the Barre quarrying industry.
In Iblhi, or thereabouts, JLr. Wyllie, re
urning to Scotland, disposed of" his in
erest in the business to Clarihew &
ray, the firm being known thereafter
. Milni), Clarihew A Gray. After the
ath of Mr. Clarihew, the business was
continued by Milne A Gray until Mr.
Milne purchased the holdings of Mr. Gray
in 1905. At that time several quarrying
properties, held jointly by H. W. Varnum
and .1. M. Boutwell and Mr. Milne were
consolidated into the" corporation known
as Boutwell, Milne A Varnum, a quarry
ing concern whose product, known as
"The Rock of Ages," has attained nation
wide repute. Among the various asso
ciates who knew him in business circles,
Mr. Milne was held in high esteem for
his foresight and his strict integrity. '
Varied institutions, societies, fraternal
orders, etc., have received the support
of Mr. Mjlne and are deeply indebted to
him for his loyalty. His philanthropio
spirit, as manifested in his relations with
the City hospital, Goddard seminary,
church societies and other worthy organ
izations, marked him as a man of many
benevolences. Even the humblest work
man in his employ came to know, ofttnne
in a very substantial way, his employorV
generosity.
In the spring of 1014 Mr. Milne was
chosen chairman of the committee in
charge of the $50.(XK1 ;und for the new
City' hospital. He wis a member of t'10
board of trustee.', of that inM'ttitior. anil
unswerving in hi support of its inter
ests. He was a member of the lord of
trustees at GoJiard seminary and r. ad
herent of the First Presbyterian chu.c!.
A 32d dc-grte M;ton. here in Parre- ! e be
longed to Cranite iodge. Granite hnvi?;-
and St. Aldenmr e.".mti-an-i--ry. tin tKo
night of the institution of Hiiiwnt'e
lodge of Odd Fellows. Mr. Milne became
member of the order. Not long after
'Lin Gordon. "c. 1'2. O. S t' .va ebnr
tered. Mr. Milne nrol)cd as a member.
He also belonged 10 t V Barre Burns c Top.
the Vineitia club aud tile F.Iks, tie v
a stockholder in the Barre Ibdel Co., and
was actively interested in the mote t i
procure up to-d.ite hotel t';iciiifi,- for h's
home city.
Th deceased i survived by his wife,
who wa Miss taroline Hell .loni.
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. .lohn dories of
citv. to whom he was married in
Barre .Irne ltl. I8: one o' two on-s
Hon: to them, .fust ice .1. Miln", is dm.!;
the second son. George Fdniund Mi1-',
born in li. survives. He jiUo lesjes
four si'ters and a brother. Jov -on Milne,
in Scothnd.
KILLED BY AUTO
Miss Mary Lynch Was Walking ir. Gv
Highway.
Springfield. Mass.. May 2. - A a re
sult of injuries which she rccrixp,! v'.fi:
being demonstrated, therefore the world ""1 m " " ' -r l""i..
must and will receive it. and nothine canihv ("-,,v Adam ot .".4. Sort!. V. ,
stand before it. 'street this ciM, on tue Huston -vt.J n
It is the eternsl truth. hose eopvincj Indian Orchard l-t nv! t. M:s Mary
ine- and eonsertin powers not '.in can'L.vn-h. acrd 3". of 23Z Mam street. ,,.
,!,.,. I and whose onward march no f,w;dian th-cpafd.
th.
cn cope
Thoe
ho lime pptsrd t!ii
jConUnued on tbirj jaj.V
died in
eue' Edward Mcinara
Indan I'rc'isrd. when
Lhtm from be -and.
t
l.lidlow l.o.p'ti.
111 the rmi r 1
:! Mi tr-. :.
n; v !ir.e 1: t
t
