D'tal n,Iiltitng
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population - 15.000
The Oldest Copper Pro
ducing District in the
State of Arizona.
AND nORENCI LEADER
OLUME XVII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 19 16.
NUMBER 51
CLIFTON SCHOOLS
HOLD GRADUATING
EXERCISES
Class Play to be Given This Even-
ing and Commencement Exercises '
Will Be Held Tomorrow Night at
High School Auditorium
The Clifton Public Schools . con- :
elude their year's work today with
one of the most successful terms In a telegraphic order from Secretary
the history of the local Institution. Baker of the War Department order
On the whole the teachers and pupils ing the Arizona National Guard to ac
have worked together harmoniously tive service and duty along the Mexi
and the faculty has received more co- can border, Adjutant General Harris
operation than usual from the parents, issued instructions to each company
The attendance has been excellent In the state to assemble at their arm
and the work done in all departments ories, and to await further instruc
has been of the highest order and a tions.
credit to the school system of Clif- The telegram from the war depart
ton. ment advised that a mobilization point
Many improvements have been made for the Arizona National Guard would
In the different departments during be designated by General Frederick
the past year and with the contem- Funston, commanding the department
plated changes to be made from the of' the South, and that Gen. Funston
proceeds of the bond issue which was would also designate a federal mus
recently voted, will put the schools tering in officer, on Thursday Gen
of Clifton in the first class and giva era! Funston designated Douglas as
the" children opportunities for educa-- the mobilization point for Arizona,
tionul advancement unexcelled any- The other important development
where in the state. ' ot the day was the forwarding of a
The class play .will be given by the telegram by the governor of Arizona
pupils this evening at the High School to the War Department at, Washing
auditoium and should draw a large ton requesting that 3,000 rifles and
attendance of interested patrons. The 100,000 rounds of ammunition be sent
pupils have put much effort and time here at once to be placed at the dis
into the production of the play and posal of vounteer organizations to be
their energies are deserving of ap- known as "Home Guards" which may
preclation from the public
The commencement exercises will
be held at the auditorium' Saturday
evening at eight o'clock, with Dr. R.
B. Von Klein Smid, president of the
University of Arizona, as the princi
pal speaker. Mr. Von Klein Smid
is conceded to be one of the ablest
speakers in Arizona, and his address
promises to be instructive as well as
interesting. The graduating class this
year consists of three young ladies and
two young men, Misses Irma Eliza
beth Fitz, Margaret Antoinette Cotey
and Mildred Josephine Weiss, Messrs.
Clarence Miller and Rafael Estevez
Gonzales .
Program
Following is the program to be ren
dered:
Processional Miss B
Ormal Noyes
Invocation Rev. Curry H. Love.
Quartette, ''Oh, Italia, Italia Belov
ed" High School.
Address Dr. R. B. Von Klein
Smid, President University of Ari
zona. Concerto, Accolay Mrs. J. W. Em
erick .
Presentation of Diplomas O . A .
Risdon, Fresiiiout Uoard of St'uca
tion. V icnl Solo, (a1 At Parting, Kof,ers
(b) The Swallows, Cowen Mrs. J.
A. Davis.
Benediction Rev. J. R. Sawyer
At a special meeting of the Board
of Education Thursday evening the
following teachers were elected for
next year and given contracts for
the same:
Supervisors:
Sarah b . Bain, Art. j ,011 tna jil.r.itant general .: 'l- ;-ar;-
K. R. Umfleet, Music. ment and will be honored by any mer-
Rita Stevens, Domes-tic Science and chant or dealer.
--rJ- ,, , , . . i The order for actual service came
W. R. Hurley, Manual Training. evi(jently as a surprise to the young
High School: ,men belonging to the militia in Phoe
T. L. Bouse, Principal Mathe- nix. They were called hurriedly from
matics. ;the various walks of civil pursuits and
Mary E. Wadlington, English. -obeyed with alacrity and evidences of
F. M. Walch, Science, Athletics, 'enthusiasm, the first call ever receiv-
Zella Roberts, Commercial.
K. M. Houser, Departmental.
Edna Tuchock, Spanish, Latin
Grades:
Helen Kelly, Mabel Carter, Alleen
Await, Mrs. Mabel M. Spann, Win-
nie Valverde, Annette Walton, Aug- 'at 11 a. m. Tuesday and a short time istoekton Hill, Wallapai Mining Dis
usta Griggs, Mary Lisles, Kathryn afterwards the militiamen were noti- trict Mohave 'county, eleven miles
Th waits, Lucy Sneed, Louise Ewing, 'fied and during the afternoon went rrom' Kingman. The property owned
Lina Mae Eldred, L. N. .George, Mar-'into camp at the baseball park while !Dy tne company includes the Banner
garet Jones, Radah Meador, Janet recruiting officers opened up head- 'Mines, Infallible mine, Prince George
Bain, Alice Connor, Anna Houston, quarters at the Armory. Colonel A. !mine ' Tigress mine. Jubilee mine and
Sarah Carlton, Jas. W. Aline, Ettie m. Tuthill, accompanied by Clyde iAlta 'mine, all of which have become
Young, Ruth Lowdermilk, Miriam j Pickett, Reginfental Adjutant, left famous f0f shipping high grade ores.
Bond, Lue McDuffle, Elizabeth Mc- , Wednesday morning for Phoenix and j These mines cover 250 acres and are
Keen. from there went to Douglas. The patented and have produced approxi-
LOCAL OPTIONISTS
START PETITIOI
First Made Its Appearance in
son But Will Make Its Appearance
in Every County in the State.
Petitions calling for the submis
sion to the people next fall of an
amendment to the present liquor
laws of Arizona, which will bring lo
cal option to this state, are being
circulated in Tucson.
The amendment provides that 15
per cent of the voting strength of
any county may secure an election
by petition to decide whether or not
that county shall countenance the
sale of liquor in properly licensed
and regulated places.
The petitions are the outgrowth of
a meeting in Phoenix recently of an
organization known as the Business
Men's Protective association, it is
reported . It is stated that hundreds
of the lists are being circulated
throughout the state.
Local leaders, of the dry forces
here stated today that no efforts are
being made to influence signers of
the petitions or in any way hinder
the advocates of the local option
movement in securing names.
ARIZONA NATIONAL!
GUARD CALLED
TO ARMS
Company M. of Morenci in Command !
of Captain Hayes Left For Douglas j
This Morning Where Companies of j
State Militia Will Mobolize. )
Following the receipt by the Gov-
ernor at Phoenix Thursday morning of !
be organized by the citizens of vari
ous points along and near the border,
which feel the need of more adequate
protection from possible raids and for
ays by bandits from over the border.
About two months ago the governor
made a similar request, which was
not at mat time iavoraDiy aciea upon.
However it is believed that, in view
of the more recent and tragic devel
opments, that the request of the Ari
zona chief executive may be granted
at this time. '
Wherever such "Home Guards" are
organized, the idea is to have them
make requisition through the civil au
thorities, such as county boards of su
pervisors, or city councils for supplies
and munitions.which wiU be furnished
them, due safeguards being taken for !
the protection of tbe government prop-
erty. - -
The governor is said to take the
view that the 'Home Guards' could be
made a powerful auxiliary to the state
militia establishment, in the erent
that all or the greater part of the mili-1
tia is sent out of the state.
On a peace footing the Arizona Na -
tional Guard consists of 918 men and
officers. Several months ago cap-
tains of militia were ordered to re-
cruit their companies to a war basis,
but this has not as yet been done.
The adiutant has also sent out de
tailed instructions to the different
companies as to just what they'sball
do. ar.d -u- c:ivay conimais'ar has
been furnished with blank reiirsi.:.ous
by which they raay obtain nea it il si!i
ipiit - s for thjir maintenanfe. Th-- n-
uui.-itions are in the form a :!raf:
- ed by the National Guard of this state
to the active service of the United
States.
Company M Leaves for Douglas
The orders calling Company M
. Morenci to active service was received
'Morenci boys entrained Friday mom-
:ing for Douglas via Hachita with full
(equipment. As a result of the call
jto arms the D. C. M. Co. has been
j wiring over the country for men to
:take the places of the militiamen. It
is understood that the companies in
'Morenci donated a half month's pay to
ithe soldier boys before they departed.
iThe commissioned officers of the Mo-Tuc-
j renci company are: F. H. Hayes, Cap
tain; K. R. Nelson, r irst Lieutenant;
H. W. Rountree, Second Lieutenant.
The non-commissioned officers and
privates include: li. E. Riddle, Ser
geant' Major; O. L. Andrews, A. T.
Barr, Sergeant; Tony Brown, Musi
cian; F. N. Ball, Edgar Butts, Corpor
al; Jos. Carpenter, Corporal; W. H.
Cowan, J. A. Chesley, B. F. Creeth,
O. D. Curry, I. B. Davis, Sid Dia
mond, W. E. Fairchild, J. B. Finley,
G. W. Gravely, First Cook; W. R.
Grunow, Quartermaster Sergeant; P.
S. Harlow, K. C. Henley, Corporal;
L. B. Hess, C. 11. Hostettler, J. S.
Hubbard, First Sergeant; J. B. Jones,
Corporal; Ray Lawson, Second Cook;
M. D. Malloy, G. E. Miller, Clyde
McBride, J. R. McLean, W. E. Neff,
M. D. Perry, C. A Polling, Corporal;
C. L. Queen, Regimental Clerk; P.
W. Quinn, G. E. Repper, G. E. Rey
nolds, H. B. Scott, G. W. Schlecton,
H. F. Smith, Corporal; P. R. Splane,
A. G. Terrel, C. J. Uttley, H. F. Utt
ley, Corporal; H. C. Wright, L. A.
Wright.
Staff Officers (Field Rating)
Col. A. M. Tuthill of Morenci in
MOVING SUPPLIES FOR THE UNITED
A- '
5
J2
ifjl
The photograph shows soldiers
CLIFTON WINS
FIRST BLOOD
The baseball season for the Clifton
Morenci district opened last Sunday
at the local grounds with a good
crowd of fans in attendance. The
initial game was played between'
Clifton and Morenci, the old time
rivalry being revived and both teams
hotly contesting every point, the
victory falling to Clifton with a score
of 8 to 5. Although both teams
showed lack of practice, the pep and
energy thrown into the game is a
strong evidence of what may be ex
pected from them in the future when
they become true to form. Clifton
appeared to be the worst offender in
the field, having five errors charged
up to them, tov.r cf which came in
the sixth inning after Livingston had
relieved McKenzie on the slab.
Among the new men
McKenzie .
showed uo well, working four
;nings and iitriking out nine men and
allowing one hit to be made -off him.
j He has speed and curves but shows
jiack of experience when runners are
j on the bases, allowing them to steal
j bases at will.
Dolan at second showed good form,
jwaldron at first was weak with the
I stick and was the worst offender in
'the field. Anslow behind the bat put
!Up a good game and the old timers
on the team, although out of practice,
showed up well.
The new uniforms for the local team
have arrived and there are now
! enough to go around, which fact will
imake the players look more like the
ireal thing.
j There will be no regular game next
Sunday as a great many of the Mo-
'renci boys have left with the militia
ail they are shy on material. How-
ever, a practice game will be held at
tue ball grounds to which the public
is invited . -
oiicwing is a summary 01 sunaay s
game:
Clifton-
-Runs, 8; Hits, 9; Errors, I
Morenci Runs, 5; Hits, 3; Errors,
Promising Property
Mr. E. C. Bunker, of the Clifton
Hotel, is in receipt of several large
SDecimens of ore. together with a
(highly interesting prospectus and re
of innrt from tho Arizona Rntt.es Mines
I r nt-n-noi-tv o lnated on
Ful" ' " "
mately one million dollars.
When
in full operation the Arizona
Buttes
Mines Co. will be a producer of gold,
silver, zinc, lead and copper.
command.
Lieutenant Colonel H. H. Donkers
ley of Tucson, second in command.
First Lieutenant Clyde Pickett of
Morenci, regimental adjutant.
Capt. Chas. W. Harris of Phoenix,
regimental quartermaster.
Capt. A. C. Taylor, of Phoenix, reg
imental commissary.
Capt. M. G. Browne of Tucson, in
spector of small arms practice.
Major E. P. Grinstead of Phoenix,
commanding first batallion.
First Lieut. Harold A. Briggs of
Phoenix, adjutant, first batallion.
Second Lieut. Harold C. Hess of
Phoenix, quartermaster, first batallion.
Major H. G. Coykendall of Phoe
nix, commanding second batallion.
First Lieut. Wm. E. Wakefield of
Tucson, quartermaster, second ba
tallion. First Lieut. Roy E. White of Yuma,
adjutant, second batallion.
Major Geo. E. Hadicke of Morenci,
commanding third batallion.
Second Lieut. A. B. AVilliams of
Morenci, quartermaster, third batal
lion. H . B . Jackson, of Morenci, adju
tant third batallion.
-
f $
traveling ou trams loaded with ammunition, guns and camp outfits.
DELEGATES CHOSEN
G.O.P. GONVENTIO
Greenlee County Representatives Re
turn Well Pleased With the Work
r at Tucson
! John C. Gatti and D. E. Bronson
returned this week from Tuoson
where they represented Greenlee
county in the State Republican con
tention. "Champ" Gatti played an
'important part in the deliberations in
tbe caucus and also on the floor of
, the convention . On more than one oc
casion he played the important role
of peacemaker.
! That Arizona's six delegates to the
: Republican National Convention will
icast their ballot for Charles Evan
Hughes was indicated by a poll of
the delegates. Press reports have
previously stated that the old stand-
pat leaders won the convention. This
is not the case. The six delegates
while for Justice Hughes are not anti-
Roosevelt. It is true that- Tom who are -not members of -the union
Molloy and Lorenzo Hubbell, two pro- land endeavor to secure their applica
nounced Roosevelt men were defeated tioii for membership. Literature will
but this was because the districting be distributed freely and the town
plan was adopted and not because jwill be niacarded with signs and ban
they were Roosevelt men. Iners. There will be parades and brass
Te oesat.'-on held a meeting Sat- band music, and on the plaza Monday
urday night and selected Judge Ed- 'evening.May 22,at 5:30, speeches will
ward Kent, of Phoenix, charman of !be made by local and outside speak
the delegation. John B. Wright was !ers on Unionism. J. L. Donnelly
chosen secretary. It was decided to I will speak on "Woman's Relation to
meet at Chicago Monday, June oth. ithe Labor Movement." He will be
Judge Kent is a close personal friend followed by E. J. Moreno, of Gila
of Roosevelt and served under him I county, who will speak in English
four years as Chief Justice of Ari -
zona, having been appointed
first
by President Roosevelt.
I The six delegates and six alternates
chosen are:
l Maricopa county Edward Kent,
'delegate; Frank Stewart, alternate.
Cochise county C. A. Overlook,
delegate; John Mason, alternate.
! Pima- Yuma, and Santa Cruz coun-
1 ties John B. Wright, delegate; Bra-
cey Curtis, alternate.
Gila, Graham and Greenlee counties
Ph. Freudenthal, delegate; F. M.
Pool, alternate.
Yavapai and Pinal counties Leroy
Anderson, delegate; G. E. Nolan, al
ternate. Coconino, Mohave, Apache and Na
vajo counties F. S. Breen, delegate;
Chas. Granger, alternate.
The recommendation of state candi
dates was postponed until an adjourn
ed convention after the national con
vention to be held at Prescott on July
6th.
The selection of a national commit
teeman was left to the delegates to
Chicago to be chosen by them after
a candidate for the presidency is
nominated.
State Engineer Returns
Hon. Lamar Cobb, State Engineer,
returned to Phoenix last week from
Washington, D. C, where he had
been to attend a meeting of the exe
cutive committee of the National
Good Roads Association. There will
be a meeting of the Arizona Good
Roads Association in Phoenix on the
15th inst., after which Mr. Cobb ex
pects to pay a visit to Graham and
Greenlee counties on business con
nected with the building of the con
necting link in the East and West
State Highway between Clifton and
Safford .
Able to Return Heme
Miss Fredonia Parks, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Jas. V. Parks, of Dun
can, who recently underwent an oper
ation at the A. C. hospital, returned
to her home on Thursday of this week,
completely recovered.
Fraser In North Dakota
J. F. Fraser, president of the Twin
Peaks Mining Co., is at present in
Bottineau, North Dakota, where he is
working on a plan among the stock
holders in that section for the reor
ganization of th Twin Peaks Mining
Co., the new corporation to be known
as the New Gold Buttes Co. Twin
Peaks stock is to be exchanged for
the new stock at the ratio of 6 shares
to one. Mr. Fraser writes that he
is meeting with some success in his
efforts .
STATES ARMY
LABOR PROGRAM
FOR THREE DAYS
Two Hundred Representatives of Un
ions in District Will Act As Special
Organizers For Three Days
Leaders in the Labor Forward
movement in this county arranged
for May 22, 23, and 24 in Clifton, Mo
renci and l(etcalf, are making big
preparations-for the carrying out of
the program on the above named
dates. The object of the activity on
these days is to increase the num
ber of trad-3 unionists in the district,
end the organization work is in
f.harge of John L. Donnelly, Second
Vice-President of the State Federation
of Labor.
During the three days two (hundred
local organizers will be active in the
district, composed of representatives
from each trade union. These men
will wear badges and will call in a
I body upon w orkingmen m the district
.and Spanish.
The Labor Forward movement m
Greenlee county follows upon a simi
lar movemen; recently concluded in
the Miami district and elsewhere in
the state to increase the membership
in the State Federation of Labor.
Democrats who are conducting pri
mary campaigns- should bear in mind
that conditions are different here from
Texas and other southern states
where it is equivalent to election to
secure the primary nomination. There
it is simply s. white man s primary
under the name of democracy and the
result gives the winner a walk-over
in general election. In Arizona there
is a vigorous united republican op
position to meet and it will require a
united front in November if demo
crats remain in control either in
county or state affairs. Phoenix Mes
senger. If the Republicans reunite and win
the election, as they so fondly boast
they will do, what principles will
underlie the reunion? Those of Taft,
or those of Roosevelt? Or maybe it is
the purpose to discard principles and
concentrate on pie.
If the Republicans weren't so busy
in their blind man's bluff game of
selecting a candidate it might occur to
them that there isn't any real need
of a Republican candidate for Presi
dent this year. It would save them
a lot of worry, and it wouldn't affect
the result, to just drop out for 1916.
-f-
Wlien President Wilson delivered
his famous message to Congress re
cently stating that he had notified Ger
many that her illegal and inhuman
warfare against merchant vessels
must cease or relations be severed, he
was overwhelmed with telegrams of
aproval and endorsement from every
Ktate, and every important city in the
country. Then the hyphenated ones
sot busy and sent a half ton of tele
grams to Congressmen and Senators
protesting against war. But these
German telegrams were nearly all
ilike, showing that the Copperhead
society had written the telegrams and
passed them along to the hyphenated
ones to send to their Congressmen.
Word from Former Residents
Word received from Michigan this
week conveys the information that Mr.
.nd Mrs. R. R. Ball have arrived in
Detroit where they will spend the
summer. They made the trip by auto
from their home in Phoenix, where
tacy have resided for the past several
years. Mr. Ball was the first clerk of
the town of Clifton and both he and
his wife will be remembered here by
many old friends.
ACTIVITIES AT THE
COUNTY COURT
HOUSE
The Gila Valley Bank & Trust Co.
has this week applied for letters of
administration in the matter of the
estate of Joe Guillemot.
Arthur Crowfoot has applied for let
ters of administration in tie matter of
the estate of Herbert G. Kuner, de
ceased. Francisco L. Esparzo prays for let
ters of administration in the .matter of
the estate of Juan Sigala, deceased.
One new divorce suit was this week
filed with the clerk o the superior.
court entitled F. P. Haney vs. Lime
Haney. The couple were married In
Texas in 1910. Dave Ling was ap
pointed attorney in the case by the
court.
In the case of the State vs. Harry
Sutton, on the charge of assault with,
a deadly weapon, defendant was ar
raigned and plead not guilty.
A judgment was rendered for the
I plaintiff in the case of Bank of Dun
can vs. iNancy hi. smith, action on
note.
J. L. Spaw was granted a divroce
from Lenorah M. Spaw.
Justice Court
The lower court is this week in
a state of innocuous desuetude, only
three cases having come to the atten
tion of the court for disposal.
Chris Gonzalez plead guilty to dis
turbing the peace and was set back
$10 for indulging ihis exuberant spir
its. Henry Daly, Zan McDaniels and A.
N. Ladrue, charged with bootlegging,
had their hearing in the justice court
this week and were bound over by
Justice McWilliams to await the ac-,
tion of the Superior Court. These men
are alleged to be connected with the
importation of 15 cases of whiskey and
12 sacks of beer which were found
cached in Ward's Canyon one night
last week by Deputy Sheriff Dave An
dress. It is understood that the booze
was found near the home of La Drue
and after confiscating the contraband
the above mentioned men were charg
ed with its illegal introduction into the
state.
HEAD AND FOOTE
LEAVE GRAND JURY
'. Greenlee Members of U. S. Grand
Jury Subjects cf Witticism by. the
Court Returned Home Wednesday.
i "The Head and Foot of the grand
jury would like to be excused," was
iwhat Foreihan George Kitt told Judge
jSawtelle Tuesday morning in Tuc.
'son when the Judge asked if any
: members of the federal grand jury
(wished to be excused from further ser
jvlce. ! It developed that the 'ihead" of the
'grand jury was G. E. Head of Duncan,
iand that the "foot" was Walter B.
IFoote of Clifton. Both men asked
to be excused on account of pressing
! business reasons. Their request
was granted by Judge Sawtelle, who
made some witty remarks about the
loss of the head and the foot of the
grand jury .
Messrs. Head and Foote returned
to their homes on Wednesday evening.
J. O. Billingsley and J. J. Atkins,
who were also members from this
county, are expected home this after
noon. Eighty cases came up before the U.
S. grand jury at Tucson during this
term of court.
Here from Mexico
y Luis Grass, a well known newspaper
man in Arizona and El Paso arrived
here on Saturday last from the coast
i of Mexico where he was engaged in
mining uniil three weeks ago when
himself "ana partner decided to discon
tinue operations for the present amd
seek a more healthy clime.
i Father Carnet Visits Clifton
Rev. Jos. Carnet arrived in Clifton
; Sunday and is visiting "among his old
j parishoners. Rev. Carnet was for
several years in charge of the Catholic
. church here and while serving as
i pastor of tbe local church endeared
himself to all with whom he came ia
contact, and his present visit is an oc
! casion for rejoicing among his old
friends.
Will Be In Command ;
Col. A. M. Tuthill, of the First
Arizona Infantry, accompaniey by Mrs
Tuthill and daughter, came down from
Morenci by auto Wednesday morning
and were outgoing passengers on the
morning train. Col. Tuthill was on
his way to Phoenix where he had beea
ordered by the Governor upon receipt
of a telegram from the War Depart
ment ordering the mobilization of
the Arizona National Guard. Mrs.
Tuthill and daughter proceeded to
California. Col. Tuthill arrived' ia
: Douglas Fiiday evening of this week
! jphere the ten companies of the Ari
izona Guard will be encamped await
ing further orders.
The question we have put to Ger
manv. we take it. la whothor n
, her war on the European or the Amer
lican plan.
