Eleota County Herald.
Motto: All The News When It Is News.
(L. 21.
DAKOTA CITY, NUBRASKA, THURSDAY, APRIL 'JO. 11)10.
NO. 3-1.
Dakota City
Grocery
Specials for Saturday
2 Pkgs Corn Puffs 25c
2 Pkgs Post Toasties 25c
1 Gallon Karo Syrup .' 45c
3 Cans of Peas 25c
2 Pkgs Seedless Raisins 25c
'.' Pkgs Spaghetti 25c
7 Bars Lino White Soap 25c
0 Cans Oil Sardines 25c
'A Bars Trilby Soap 25c
MigKcst Pcice Paid for
COUNTRY PRODUCE
L. ROSS
Items of Interest
Gleaned from
Our Exchanges
0
Pender Republic: Dr. Scasongood
of Thurston, was in Sioux City last
Sunduy on professional business.
Wayne Democrat: Mr. and Mrs.
Wilbur Spalir went to Dakota City
Tuesday to visit at the home of their
friendH, Mr. and Mrs. Linton.
Ponca .Journal: Mr. and Mrs. T.
T. Harris packed their household
goods the first of the week And ship
ped them to South Sioux City where
they will make their home for a
short time. Mr. Harris has a posi
tion and will begin work about the
first of May.
Sioux City Journal, Kith: Miss
Ruth Kline, whose marring" ' Mr.
Harold Bridcnbaugh will take place
Wednesday, was complimented yes
terday afternoon at a party given
by Miss Marjorie Wells at her home.
An informal entertainment was fol
lowed by tea.
Newcastle Times: Mrs. Jake Au
mer went to South Sioux City, Wed
nesday noon, to see her sister, Miss
Ella Menzies, who is staying at the
George Fisher home since leaving
the hospital. She has been suffer
ing very much since Sunday with
her ear. Mrs. Aumer says she was
resting much easier while she was
there.
gf D.-ilco'
Vte&s&sm
Thy.
Nebi jirk;i
Seasonable Announcemsnl of Vacation lours
To the Pacific Coa-t, the World's Greatest Rail Journey:
Round trip Summer Tourist rate general basis only $60, daily, com
mencing May list, good to return to October Hist. Slightly higher for
the circuit tour, including Pacific Coast steamer voyage or Shasta Route.
The Burlington's through-servi Coast routes via Denver and Scenic Col
Jvado or through the Northwest direct or via the Denver-Casper-Big
Horn Basin line give the holder of a Burlington Coast ticket a combina
tion of routes that includes the scenic, the highly developed regions and
the attractive cities of the West.
New Aiuuigenicut for
The Cody, East and
Yellowstone Park:
Scenic entrance to the Park will have excellent
automobile service to the Lake Hotel. This is one of the World's scenic
auto tours, via the Government Shoshoni Dam, through the Forest Re
serve and over Sylvan Pass during Park season. Pacific Coast passengers
may go into the Park via Cody, resume their rail journey out via Gardner,
paying extra only for such Park side-trip accommodations as they take.
If you will inquire you will learn how Burlington through coast lines offer
you the greatest inducements.
II. R. Gordon, Agent, Dakota City, Nebr
?j-1 !!! Ill II
L. V. Wakkley, Q. P. A., Omuhu, Neb.
4
1
1
1
1
i
F
&
Hughes
Co.
Lumber, Building Ma
terial, Hardware, Coal
To "She People of
Dakota City (&. Vicinity
Wlv have succeeded Mr. Fred Lynch in the
Hardware and Lumber business in Dakota
City, and are here to stay. Cur aim will be
to treat everyone right, and alike, and will guaran
tee satisfaction on all sales and work done at our
place of business. We will carry a full line of
Lumber, Building Material, Hardware, Coal, Paints,
Plumbing Material, Greases and Oils. We have a
well equipped shop where wc will do all kinds of
Plumbing, Tin Work, Furnace and Stove Repairs.
Also Concrete Work of all Kinds.
Come in and see us
Wynot Tribune: Miss Mimie Mo
rin, of Omaha, has been visiting du
ring the past week with the family
of her brother, K. J. Morin . . . Miss
Lillian Orr, of Sioux City, an old
time Dakota county, Nebraska,
friend of Mrs. E. J. Morin, arrived
here Tuesday evening for a visit
with Mrs Morin. Miss Orr is super
visor of domestic science in the Sioux
City schools.
Ponca Advocate: Mrs Fred Ro
gosch visited her daughter, Mrs.
Armbright, in Dakota county the
first of the week. Mr. Armbright
was reported quite sick. . . .The 11th
Annual Convention of the !!()th dis
trict of Nebraska will be held at
Ponca, May 11th. The district is
composed of the Rebekah lodges at
Ponca, Newcastle, Wynot, South
Sioux City, Emerson and Allen.
Tekamah Herald: Will S. Jay, of
Lincoln, an old time friend of the
editor made this oflice a social call
last Friday. Mr. Jay has been in
the newspaper business for many
years. He began his career in Dako
ta City over 40 years ngo, then went
on the State Journal at Lincoln
where he was a member of the edi
torial staff for 2o years. No one re
ceives a more cordial welcome in the
Herald oflice than Will S. Jay.
JLet'as Get Acquainted
1
H. R. GREER, Mgr.
Dakota City, Nebr.
Hartington news: Mrs. W. S.
Weston returned home Tuesday
from Dakota City, where she has
been visiting her sister for a few
days... .Prof. C. L. Culler has been
re-elected superintendent of the lo
cal schools for another year. Prof.
Culler came to Hartington from
Wayne about four years ago, and
was in charge of the manual train
ing and athletics When former
Superintendent W. M. Finnegan re
signed, Mr. Culler was promoted to
the superintendence. He has taken
exceptional interest in.the Boy Scout
movement and the present excellent
organization of boys is due to his in
terest and zeal.
Sioux City Journal, 17,: Mrs. Ida
Lewis Scherzel was married to Dr.
Frank Garretson Rhodes last even
ing at 8 o'clock at the parsonage of
the Central Independent church,
Rev. W. M. Short officiating. The
bride was attended by her sister,
Miss Florence G. Lewis. John A.
Coughlan was best man. A few
close friends were present. The
wedding party was entertained at
dinner by Mrs. Frank M. Hirsch,
1011 Fifteenth street, and at the
home of Mrs C. E. R. Edmond, (512
Eleventh street, after the ceremony.
The bride Is widely known in Sioux
City musical circles. lhe bride
groom has moved from Kingsley,
la., to practice medicine here. Mr.
and Mrs. Rhodes will be at home at
10i:t Fifteenth street after May 1.
Emerson Enterprise: Deputy U.
S. Marshal Morgan was in Emerson
one day last week looking after busi
ness pertaining to his otlico....Mrs.
Wm. Lennox and daughter, Alta, of
Ponca, visited a few days the latter
part of last week with her mother,
Mrs. MePherran, and other Emer
son relatives .... II . H . Stolze went
to Dakota City Monday morninir
whare he met with the balance of
the assessors of Dakota county to
make arrangements for a uniform
assessment.. ..John Rockwell moved
his family from Sioux City the lat
ter part of last week. Mr. Rock
well is the engineer on tin switch
run. He is living in the brick house
west of Pat Martin.. . .C. J. O'Con
nor, president of the Homer State
bank, Alfred Johnson and Harry
Rasdal, of Homer, were in Emerson
early Tuesday morning attending to
business matters. They drove out
to Mike Welsh's from here.
Allen News: Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Hale visited their son, Percy, and
wile, near liummru Tuesday
Evan Way, Frank Way and Carl
Rasmussen will each ship a car of
cattle to the Chicago market Satur
day Mrs. Hiram Baker and chil
dren returned home Saturday night
from a few days' visit with her pa
rents at South Sioux City Marl
Meek and Clyde Crego returned
Monday noon from their auto trip
to Wyoming. They are well pleased
with the prospects there and will
ship to Gillette, Wyo., some time
next week, and file on Mondoll tracts
:20 acres.. . Mell Schmied, the
fat and sassy editor of the Dakota
City Eairle. would have gotten a
good thrashing from Sheriff Cain in
the court house there if it had not
been for the Mcinls present.
Schmied swore ou a warrant and
had the sheriff "pulled" it cost
Cain $12. (0 but he probably thinks
it money well spent. The trouble
grew out of articles published in the
Eagle over a bootlegging affair at
Crystal lake last summer.
Sioux City Jourlal, M: Residents
of South Sioux City last evening or
ganized a civic improvement body to
bo known as the Liberal Labor
league. The league was formed at
a meeting in the Woodmen hall,
which was attended by seventy-live
taxpayers from various parts of the
city. Dr. Leonard DeVore acted as
chairman and A. B. Cownie as sec
retary. There was a general dis
cussion of the aims of the league,
in which many of those present took
part. A temporary organization was
formed with John Jenkins as presi
dent and Mr. Cownie as secretary
treasurer. A committee was ap
pointed to draft a constitution and
by-laws and report at another meet
ing to be held next Monday . . . Two
miles of good roads will he built in
Dakota county this summer under
the direction of federal government
experts. Farmers and good roads en
thusiasts of the county who attend
ed a meeting at the county court
house at Dakota City last evening
were told of this intention by Coun
ty Agent A. H. Beckhoff. The im
provement is to be made at the re
quest of the county commissioners,
who have notified federal aunhori
ties that the county will stand a por
tion of the expense. The county
agent said he had received word
from Washington that an expert will
be sent to Nebraska at once and that
he will visit Dakota county soon after
he arrives. What section of the
county will be selected for the ex
periment has not been determined.
Pros. I. T. Woods, of the engineer
ing department of Nebraska univer
sity, was the principal speaker at
the meeting last night. His address
was illustrated with lantern slides
showing roads in various parts of
the state. The treatment of im
proved highways also was touched
upon. Prof. Woods declared that it
had been clearly proved that the
communities which are showing the
largest growth are those where ar
teries of travel are kept in an im
proved condition. He quoted sta
tistics showing that farmers haul
more and heavier loads over good
roads, the diference being enough to
more than warrant the expenditure
for the improvement.
no adequate nutlet to the Missouii
river. The capacity of the lake will
he lessened by the mud and filth
from the high laud being dumped
into it, it is asserted. The hearing
of the application for the restrain
ing order will be held in twenty
days. 1. J. Boyle, of Chicago, is at
torney for Joseph Winterbotham,
and E. J. Stason has been retained
for the other plaintiffs. Judge R.
E. Evans will defend the drainage
plans for the supervisors. The ditch
project has been in the courts for
the last sixteen years, a decision be
ing rendered three months ago in
the United States supreme court.
The plaintilfs in the new action were
not parties to the old litigation.
The land involved in the present suit
does not lie within the drainage dis
trict, hut it is alleged will he affect
ed if the ditches are dug.
MAGAZINES 1 aim toquote low
est juices on any magazine or club
olfer. Money saving catalogue
mailed upon request. You should
subscribe for at least one of the
three great leaders, The Saturday
Evf r Post, The Country Gentle-
m... l ino ladies llonie Journal.
Sen. . your orders. Mrs. G. M.
Best, Dakota, Nebr.
Catarrli Cannot Be Cured
with LOOM, Al'I'MCAIIOS'M. tin thry enrmnt rrnch
thi unit (il tho ilhr.iw Cnturrh Im h blowl or fuiiatl
tullminl .llsiMBi'. iiml In nnlir In curr It nu mufl Inko
fntiTiml rriiHMll.ft HnU'H Cnturrh Curt' Ih tnktn In
ternally nti.l ui'IK illriTtly U.m tin- Moo. I mill murmil
pmfiu is Hull h Cuturrli ('urn h nut n iiiinrk iin.ll
fine It nn lircmrlliiil liy onn .it tho Ural (iIijkU'Iuii
In thh country lor jrars iiii.I It n rcKiihr prrnrrlptlon.
It In romposiil ill tin' hint timlm known, (imililiiril
nlth tln lii-nt hi. mil iiurlll.ru nttlwt illri'itly mi ll.u
mucous surfacis. Tin' prrlirt tumtilimtliin i.t Ilia
tuo Initrnlli'iits H wliixt pro. hum nmti unnilrrliil re
sults In rurliiK citnrrh Si ml fur icntltnonlilK. trie
1' J C'lll N! Y A. CO l'ruiM , 'lulcilu, O.
Sold liy Dnik'Ulitn. iirlie 7V
Toko IliiU'a family l'UI.1 l..r ronntlimtlun.
V V V V V V V V V . V V V V V V i
ZZfrc Herald's
Letter- Box
-K-
.H"i
CrnlK t- Spencer Writes of Ills Ittisl
liens Interests In the West.
Seattle Wash., Apr. 10, 1!)1(!.
Friend John:
" Everything here is moving
along finely this spring and we are
getting good prices for the first
time since we have been in business.
My partner and I own and operate
over fifteen miles of standard gunge
railroad and employ in our cam)) and
mills about lifiO men. Our pay roll
amounts to $20,00(1 per month, so it
keeps me hustling to keep things
going.
Our output of logs amounts to
lfio.ooo feet per day, and we cut in
our mill about 50,0(10 and sell 100,000
to other mills.
It has been a hard pull for any
logger or mill man to keep above
water the last seven years, but those
of us who hava survived are now in
shape to reap a profit.
In addition to my deal over here 1
farm a little in eastern Washington
. and Idaho. On one ranch I own we
have in 1200 acres of winter wheat
and on another are getting in 800
acres of spring crop. So altogether
I have about all one man can do.
I hope you won't think I am writ
ing a history of myself, but I am
sure you are interested in what I am
doing, as I always am to hear of
you. Yours truly,
CllAKi L. Sl'ENCKK.
Organizing to Vote Nebraska Dry
The Nebraska Dry
fnl'mnii Alli.i.im,r f!
1UI lll.l LttUIlK Y
Federation is organized for business with
W. T. Thompson as chairman. Work is
going lorwanl m the matter ot selecting district and county chair
men. In the meantime, the state work has been apportioned to the
existing organizations.
Tho Anti-Saloon League will havo charge of speakers an4
publicity, the placing, routing and direction of speakers and en
tertainers, and the furnishing of newspaper matter.
The V. C. T. U. has charge of the work of securin ' the peti
tions, and in the selection and circulation of literature. ;
The iinances of the campaign will he managed by a committee:
composed of W. A. Solleck, and "W. E. Hardy of Lincoln, C. C.
Crowcll, Jr., of Omaha, S. K. Warrick of Scotts Bluffs, and G. P.4
Bissell of Central City.
The detail organization of the state will be in the hands of the1
headquarters officers. A secretary of the committee will he selected)
and a working force installed in a few weeks. Jn the meantime,
the organization work is going forward undor the direction of the
chairman.
The membors of the executive committee, selected by tho Ne
braska Dry convention to organize the committees and working,
force of the dry campaign arc as follows :
Ambroso C. Epperson of Clay Center, from tho republican party.
E. O. Kretslnger of Heatrlco, from tho democratic party.
Hnrry E. Sackett of Beatrice, from tho progressive party.
C. C. Crowell ot Omaha, from tho prohibition party.
Ed Ashland of Omnlia, from organized labor. '
H. V. Carson of Lincoln, from the State Anti-Saloon league.
Mrs. Mamlo Clatlin of University Place, from tho Women's Christian'
Temperance union.
The proposed amendment to the constitution to be voted upon,
is worded as follows:
"Be it enacted by tho Peoplo of tho Stato of Nebraska: That tho con
stitution of tho Stato ot Nebraska bo amended by adding theroto tho follow
ing, to bo known and designated as Articlo XVII thereof:
"On and after May first, 1917, tho manufacture, tho salo, the keeping for
sale or barter, tho sale or barter under any protoxt, of malt, splritous, vinous
or any other intoxicating liquors, nro forover prohibited in this state, except
for medicinal, scientific, mechanical, or sacramental purposes."
This amendment comes up on a direct "yes" and "no" vote. It
must receive a majority of all votes cast on that question, and the
affirmative vote must equal thirty-five per cent of the total number
of votes cast at that general election.
Sioux City Journal, 13th: The
drainage ditch program for Dakota
county, Nebraska, again has been
halted by the courts. Supervisors
of Drainage District No. 2, which
lies within the county limits, yester
day were served with official notice
from the United States district
court at Omaha that application had
been filed for an injunction restrain
ing them from conducting water in
to Jackson lake. The supervisors a
month ago let a contract for the
digging of two ditches in the district
and the machinery for the work has
been shipped, lhe action started in
the federal court will stop all opera
tions until the case has been settled.
The new litigation has been started
by Joseph Winterbotham and John
Winterbotham, owners of the old
Mondamin farm near Jackson, which
comprises about 1, 1)00 acres, and a
half dozen smaller property owners.
In their petition filed in the federal
court they allege that the entire
drainage plan is at fault, that the
proposed ditch will be unable to car
ry oil the waters. lhe principal
contention is that the water from
the hills in that section will he car
ried into Jackson lake, which will
not be able to take care of it with
the result that land in that section
will be constantly flooded at certain
seasons. It also is pointed out in the
petition that the overflowing of the
lake cannot be prevented, as it has
Our 30th Banking Birthday
Learnii. ; -Making Saviup since April 1-lth, 1SS0. Deposits
up to Sl flO.OOO. All Demand Deposits on hand. ALL of
Owner's Time, Money, Lauds, back of each deposit.
With co Well o me and Service that absolutely please
and satisfx. We Loan to Farmers On Farms at CcC on Cat
tleat S Your Own Time.
It's really time YOU knew our Bank.
THF MinWFT RANK "Safo as Government Bond"
I n L IYM U- VV LO I DM IN I -That ALWAYS treats you RIGHT"
Sturges Bros. Have Moved
to 315 Pearl Street
where wc will be glad to see all our old patrons,
and we hope, many new ones. This move is nec
essary, as the building we
for nur growing business.
now have is too small
Stxrges Bros.
Old Location, -111 Pearl St. Sioux City, Iowa
a
