VOLUME III.
ANDERSON, S. C., THURSDAY MORNING, APRIL 20, 1916.
un nugi ant
NUMBER 95.
NOTE TO i
-THE ?FULL V?
Washington, April lit-The full text
of the note sent Ambassador Gerard
at Berlin to be transmitted immediate
ly to the German Imperial govern
ment is as follows:
Voil are Instructed to .deliver to the
secretary of foreign affairs a com
munication reading an follows:
1 did not fail to trans* K immed
iately, by telegraph, lo ? y govern
ment, Your Excellency's note of the
tenth instant in regard to certain at
tacks by'German submarines, and
particularly in regard to tho disas
trous explodion which on Mareil 24th,
last, wrecked the French steamship
Sussex in the English channel. 1
havo now the honor to deliver, under
instructions front my government, tho
following reply to your excellency;
The Note.
Information now in the possession
of Hie United States fully establishes
the facts in the case of the Sussex,
and the inferences which my govern
ment has drawn from tho information
it regarda as confirmed by the cir
cumstances set forth in Your Excel
lency's note of the 10th instant. On
the 24th or Mareil, 1910. at about 2:?0
o'clock in the afternoon, the unarmed
steamer Sussex, with 325 or more
passengers on board, among whom
were a number or American citizens
was torpedoed while crossing from
Folkestone to Dieppe. The Sussex
had never been armed; was a vessel
known to be habitually used only 'for
the conveyance of passengers across
the English Channel; and was not
following the route takeu by troop
ships or supply Bhips. About 80 of
her passengers, non-combatants of
nil ages and sexes, including citizens
of tito United Stetes, wero killed or
injured. .. ...
A careful detivUed and scrupulous
ly Impartial investigation by naval
'and military officers of the United
states has conclusively establifhcd
tho fact that the Sussex was torpe
doed -without warning or summons to
surrender and that the torpedo by
which she was struck was .of German
manufacture. In the view of the
government of the United States those
facts from the first made the conclus
ion that the torpedo was fired by a
Gorman submarine unavoidable. It
now considers that conclusion sub
stantiated by the stateptents of Your
Excellency's note. A full statement
of the -facts upon which the govern
ment of tho United States hus based
its conclusion is inclosed.
G riv it y Not Appreciated. i
The government of the United
States, after hirving given careful
consideration to the note of the Im
peril government o' the ICU? of April,
regrets to state th*'.the Impression
made upon it by thv. 'statements and
proposals contained In that note la
that the. Imperial government has
failed to appreciate the gravity of the
it nation which hus resulted, not
?lone, from the attack on the Sussex,
but from the whole method and char
acter of submarine warf aa* as dis
closed by the unrestrained practice of
the commanders of German undersea
craft during the past twelve-month
and more in the indiscriminate d: .
st ruction of merchant vctsels of all
sorts, nationalities and. destinations,
it the sinking pf tljo Sussex had been
an Isolated1 case the government of tho
United States might find it possible-to
hope that the officer who was respon
sible for that act had willfully violat
ed' his orders or had been criminally
negligent in taking none. of . tho pre
cautions-they prescribed, and that the
ends ot justice might bV satisfied by
imposing upon -him an adequate pun
ishment, coupled with a formal dis
avowal of thenet, and the payment ;of
a suitable^**'amity by; the Imperial
governme?RiTJat, though lrft> nttack
upon the^Jossex waa manifestly inde
fettsible and Cauae-i a loss of lifo so
tragical as to ra-Vorstand 'forth, os
(?he of the moat terrible examples of
the, inhumanity of submarine warfare
os the commanders of German Teasels
are. conducting lt, lt unhappily. does
not stand atone,
Only One Instance. \" ,. .",_'..
On the contrary the government of
tho United States-is forced by recent
events to.conclude that it is only, one
Instance, even tt?oag?i'ouo ot the most
extreme pad most ? distressing' in stone
cs, of the deliberate method and spirit,
nf indiscriminate destructflba of mer
chant vessel' of all sorts, nationalities
aud destinations which have become
i rre and more ^mistakable as the
activity of German undersea vessels
of war has ?n recent months bosh
quickened and extended.
The Imperial government will re- ?
call; that ,whnn7 in J^hruory: 1915,.it
announced lt? intention bf Ceiling the
waters surrounding Great Britain and
Ireland ss. embraced within the seat
of war and -or. destroying nil m?chant,
ships owned by,. its enemies that
?' ALL
Pl
GERMANY
EXT
niight be found within that zone of
danger amil warned all vessels-neu
tral as well OH belligerent, to .keep
out of tho waters thus prescribed or
enter them at tlio'.r peril, the govern
ment of the United States earnestly
protested, it took tho position that
such a policy could not be pursued
without constant gross aud palpo,)l'.?
Violations of the accepted law of na
tions, particularly if submarine craft
wei e. to be employed us Its Instru
ments, inasmuch as the rules pre
scribed by that law, rules founded on
tho principles of humanity and es
tablished for the protection of Un
lives of the non-combatants nt nea.
could trot in the natu-o of the case
lid* observed by such vessels.
.It based its protest on the ground
that persons of neutral nationality and
vessels of neutral ownership would be
exposed to extreme and. Intolerable
risks; and that no right to close any
part of the high seas could lawfully
be njserted by* the Imperial, govern
ment in the circumstances then exist
ing. Tho law of naUons In thes?
matters, upon which the government
ol the United States based that protest
la not of recent origin or founded up
en nicre'v alrbitrary .prlhclplcs set
up by convention, lt is based, on the
contrary, upon manifest principles ol
humanity and lins long been establish
ed with the approvals atid by" the ex-,
press assent of all civilized nations.
Tho Impciul government, notwith
standing, persisted Jn carrying out the
policy announced, expressing the hope
that the dangers lnvolred. at any rate
to neutral vessels would bo reduced
to a minimum by the instructions
which it had Issued to tho comman
ders cf Its submarines, and assuring
tho government ef the United States
that ft would'take every possible pre
caution both to respect the rights of
neutrals and to safeguard the lives of
nnn-eorobatantB.
fflT Submarine Policy.
In*H^rsuance of this policy of sub
marine warfare against the commerce
of Its adversaries, thus announced and
thus- entered upon In spite of the
solemn , votes! of tho government of
the United States the commanders of
tho Imperial government's undersea
vessels have carried on practices of
such ruthless destruction which have
made lt moro and more evident as the
months have gone by that tho Im
perial government has found lt im
practicable to-put any such restraints
?upon them ns; it had hoped and prom
ised-to put. 4#M
Again and again the Imperial gov
ernment has given IU solemn as
surances to the government bf the
United States that at least passenger
ships would not be thus dealt with,
and yet it has repeatedly permitted
its undersea commanders to disregard
those assurances with entire impuni
ty. As recently as February last it
gave notice that it would regard all
armed merchantmen owned by lt's en/d\!
mles as part of the armed naval fo: co.*
o its .adversaries and deal with them!
at with men-of-war, titus at least by I
implication, r.ledglug Itself, to give
warning to vessels "which, were not
armed and to accord security of life
to thex passengers and crews; but
even thts limitation their submarine
commanders have recklessly Ignored.
Destruction Increases.
Vessels of neutral ownership, aven
vessels of neutral ownership bound
from neutral {ott to neutral port,
have, been decoyed along with ve?
whf of belligerent ownership in con
stantly increasing numbers. Some
times the merchantmen attacked have
been warned and summoned io stir*
render before being fired On, or toc
pedoed; eomotimes their passengers
and crowB hav<i"been vouchsafed the
poor security ot being allowed to take
to the ship's boats -before tho ?hip
was cent to tim bottom. But again
and again no warning bas been given,
no ; escape even to ,tlu> ehlp*? ^ oats
allowed to th oso cn hoard. Great lin
ers like the Lusitania sad Arabic end
more passenger boats like ti e Sussex
have been oitRCkiil without a moments
warning, often before they have- lavett
become aware that they1 were in the
presence of an armed ship of the ene
my, and the Hves of noa-combata nts,
peesengere and crew haye "been de
stroyed wholesome and in a manner
which the government ot the United
States cannot but (regard as .panton
?nd without - the slightest cblpr ot
justification. ' <** .
No limit' of any kind has In fact;
been set; to their liidllcrhnat? pur
suit and destruction'of merchantmen
of all kinds and. ne. .tonalities within
the waters .which the Imperialgovern^
mont hw chosen, to de?lgnaip as ly
ing within' the seat of wir. . Tim roll
of Americans who have lost their Uvea
upon ships thus attacked and dent roy
yffiiffi . ' ? v' ~-,.
(CONTINUED ON P1QS POUR.) , :
UPON HIM ARE TURNED
EYES OF. ENTIRE WORLD
Pres. Wilson
is said to have
told officials
close ID him
that he does not
believe friendly
relations with
( ierman v c a ti
continue.
woonitow WILSON
IF SUB WARFARE IS
LONGER CONTINUED
(Closing Paragraph o? Note to Geihnany)
If it ?? stil! the purpose cf the Imperial Government to prosecute
identit?s and ^discriminate, warfare against vessels of commerce by
the use of submarines without regard to what the government of the
United States mustxonsidcr the sacred and indisputable rules of inter
national law and the universally recognized dictates of humanity, the
government of the United States is at last forced to the conclusion
that there is but one course it can pursue. Unless the Imperial Gov
ernment should now immediately decare and effect an abandonment
of its present methods of submarine warfare against passenger and
freight carrying vessels the government of the United States can have
no choice, but-to sever diplomatic relations with the German Empire
altogether. This action the government of the United States con
templates with the greatest reluctance, but feels constrained to take in
behalf of humanity and the rights of neutral nations.
il
FORT OGLETHROPE 61
Special Train Also Carrying Civi
lians From Points in East
to Camp.
(By Associated Press.) . (By Associated P#ess.) .
Xow Yovk,.April 19.- The move- Washington. April 19.-Senate
'ment of troops to the military tram- democrats in a conference tonight ?S|
lng camps at Port Oglethorpe. Gec,r- cv^d to accept tho house till rep??P
gia. is already underway. Captain .lr? thc provision in tho present tariff
Gordon Johnson, aldo to General Leon- \?Wi Whleh places sugar on the free
ard Wood, announced tonight. Troop ll?t May l3t- Abolit two to one sen
cavalry left Port M?er for the camp Qtors vttted to abandon the bill adopt
yesterday and a hattalllon of infantry ed by/tho senate as a substitute Tor
from Portress Monroe tortay. A spec- tho house bill
S1\~,n&arry$g^lrS?i ffiSSSS frnn! Tho Provided that tho present
Beaton, >few York, Philadelphia ami , ? t,nnt p - d ' ,d
l?r ?5 ' " ' Washington cot\,?UQ unU, j.^. r The action of tho
way, ?na. . conference becomes . effective tompr
----- ro^. w;jien tn? BPn^te votes to renede
Cahlnftt.Crlsjs ?rato. from the disagreement with the bouso.
London, Ap*Hk 19.-Thc cabinet The house today instructed Ita co ti
er Isl a IS.'the gravest sluoo the forma- .f?rees to insist en the house measure.
Hon? of the Coalition cabinet. There ---.??-i-^
are . mmorn that Kitchener. Lloyd FIND GRAVE OF ATLANTA
George and others will resign unless .?. ..
Premier Asquith consents to hume- MAN MAYOR WHEN CITY
ai?le contcription. WAS STRUGGLING VILLAGE.
... Calls For Militia.. ? $0? : "
companies Of State "militia following I Moses l-ormwalN? tho 'first mayor of
a clash between ' 2,000 munition Atlanta, who prcftiddd;'over the d?s
workers pud' commuters. Sever*! tin le's ot-the city When lt was the" jil?
shots?were ilifedV but ho one was hurt. Iago of/Marthaavllle, has been fpuhrl
<- .-,-- - ?. - . lp an obscure corner, of Oakland cem
Kepatr Own Houses. elf.ry, overgrown, with vines and
. Manchester, April 19.-^Tho Mah- grass, and tlie city of Atlanta will
bester . education .commiUee has clean off the lot apd erect a suitable
started daises to teach 'classes to .mon?m?hliv'to.matK tho; gravo. j
?each people how to tnakorlhelr 'own, , .
household irSp?lrs In wartime. Tmlii Iweltres Track.
, ?? "i; .'?<.?-'?'?. ???'-.?..- ' . .I.aCros^e, Wis.. April ?9.-A Bur
Ofto Klilrd ; thu? Hurt. .; tfogton passenger train le ft ..the^ rall M
* Puteredn. N.J.. April 10-Harold anjl % pl u n ged . Iplrtl th* . MI salsa t pp ?
?Smith, aged "20?;pi/m Wiled*and ?M river soiilh ot Degoto, Wis. The ett
bert Reese Injured when their :^Ui^o'v? iHne^r^Aa.'rmJ^r???; Mit the passen
mobile Overturned njsa^^here todoy g^ra werp^unhurt.
' : :. ?\ :
? ? . ;'.;'. '.?.>
ACCEPT FREE SUGAR
: REPEAL HOUSE MADE
Senate Democrats Vote in Con
.. ference to Abandon Bill Con
taining Sugar Tariff.
.ESS GEI
INE WAI
GENERAL SCOIT
SENT TO BORDER
TO BETJEPBflT
TROOPS WILL NOT BE WITH
DRAWN PENDING HIS IN
VESTIGATION
THE SAME LEADER
BaUor Makes it Plain That Funs
ton is Still in Charge and
Will Remain So.
(Hy Associate 1 Presa.)
Washington,, April lil.-No decision
us tu Hie withdrawal of America'!
troops from Mexico will he made for
at leust a week or ton days unless
outbreaks con.pol immediate action.
This wns Minde clear torin*'' when Sec
retary Palter despatched Major Gen
eral Scott, chief o? stiff, as hit,' per
sonal representative to make a com
plete report on the situation. The
administration's final action on Car
ran za'fl request that troops Ixe with
drawn will probably be based on
Scott's report. Scott left Wnsh'ngtou
tonight and arrives In San Antonio
Friday, und In not expected back at
Washington for ten days. Secretary
Haker made II plain tl vit General Fun*
sion ls ?.';'.I1 in supremo command cf
the border situation und the exped?-"
tlonary forco and will remain so.
Tho expedition ls apparently at a
standstill, according to all reports"
from Mexico. Mexican Ambassador
Arredondo denied tho published re
ports that he received Instructions
from Carranza to make a new de
mand for withdrawal.
?. 5. WILL PROSECUTE !
THE f BIN "AGENT"
Von Igel is Charged With Con
spiracy to Dynamite Welland
Canal in Canr.da.
(By Associated Press.)
Washington, April 19.-The attor
ney general's office la understood to
have decided to prosecute Wolf Von
lgel. Von I'apen's former ' secretary,
arrested at New York yesterday
charged with a cpnsnlracy to dyna
mite tho Welland canal, notwithstand
ing tho Gorman ambassador's . re
quest for his 'release..
Tho ambassador claimed immunity
for Von Igel on the grounds that he
is a diplomatic agent. Von Igels al
leged offense, however,, is said to have
? italien plcco a year boforo ho register
ed in Washington ns a Gorman agent,
pfnc'^al Oermnn locuments wore seiz
ed In Von Igel's New York-office will
be returned.
ONE SODA FOUNT IN :
ATLANTA USES MILK
OF IBO COWS DAILY
Atlanta. April 19.-'-Atlanta Quench
es her thirst as follows: harage soda
founts uso 30 gallons, of buttermilk a
day,' one Whitehall street- fount uses
tee milk of 150 cows a day, , e.oou
pounds of .sugar a- month, 10 barrels
of limes and 10 barrels of lemon:,' a
week. Fifteen million glasses ot' a
Veli known beverage, usually referr
ed to as dope, aro drank cvofy\year".
Last fall it ls stated And one can take
. or'loaVo tho*-st?t?ir-snt -J hd likes.
1 three car loads of. , whiskey. . w^erb
shipped -into Atlanta every day from
;jChatyanooga. " . -, ?
H ' Th* forgoing figures .do nhl include
near-beer, as .the reporter lpst count
befare ho'got to tho Saloons. In ten
mo?-? days ajr.of the tjear-becrssloprta
t will be closed; The now "prohibition
law, as is genera i; y known, goes Into
trjriteiit May ist. After that date th
sodii founts:ar? exnecfojltodd'to. b'g
be# baldness .than et er1 before ;:,
.-_-;-? . ,'' ii -
Ingraham.4??i?. JV?t Sfcjr.
; .Wasntngton, .April/. rlOL.-Spresldert
yyi't.ion,,today, appointed jfrrrosT; May
or ingrahp'm of ;?pr*tiahA, Maine
o'stant s?cvttari'.?of Wfr.~
> - T ' -
(MANY AGREE
MARE AT ONCE
BEFORE CONGRESS
Note Declares That United States is at Last Forced
to Take Firm Stand in Submarine Situation
Von Bernstorf? Has Already Made it Plain ?
at Washington That Germany Will
Not Abandon Submarine Policy.
(By Associated Press)
Washington, April 19.-America's note to Germany, made public
I today, says: "Unless the Imperial Government should immediately
declare and effect, an abandonment of its present methods of subma
rine warfare against passenger and freight carrying vessels, the gov
ernment of the United States can have no choice but to sever diplo
matic relations with the German empire altogether."
The note declares^ it is still the purpose >f Germany io "prose
cute relentless and indiscriminate warfare against the vessels of com
merce without regard to what the United States must consider sacred
and indisputable rules of international Jaw and universally, recognized
dictates of humanity, the United States is at last forced to theconclu- .
sion that there is but one course it can pursue."
The note asserts that information in possession of the United States
establishes'conclusively that the channel steamer Sussex \va? torpe
doed without warning and that the torpedo was of German manufac
ture. The conclusion that the tprpedo was fired by a German sub
marine note is considered substantiated by Germany's recent dis
claimed , *'
Germany was informed that the United States gained the impres
sion from Gerjnany's recent communication that the imperial Gov
ernment failed to appreciate thc gravity of the situation.
The grave situation, the note asserts "resulted not alone from the
attack on the Sussex, but from the whole method 'and character of
submarine warfare as disclosed in unrestrained practice of command
ers of German under-sea craft during the past twelve months ?rf the
indiscriminate distruction of merchant vessels of all sortf. nationalities
and destinations." The note declares also that the use of submarine
tor the distruction of commerce is by the. nature of vessels incom
patible with the principles of humanity and the rights of n?utrals. At
tached to the note was an appendix detailing the Sussex case, lt was
explained that the investigation of American military and naval at
taches showed the pieces of a torpedo found aboard the Sussex simi
lar to G?rman torpedoes in possession of the French government at
Toulon.
m
BY THE CENSOR
(My -An.'iodated PreBB.l
London, April 19.-The Gerrrians In
a bayonet attack near Houdrement,
norther,: t of Verdun, captured a.stone
quarry around which, they grained a
footing ..Monday. At Len ?aparges the
Gorman?, after three attacks, entered
tho French trenches over a front
nbotit two hundred yards, but im
mediately were expelled. Artillery
activity cpntlnues . near .HUI No. 30
' and on a line between Deadman'? hil!
'?lid Cumiares.
Tho Russian attack against an'Aus
trian position on the upper Sereth
.-iver in Oallcli -was repulsed.
The Italians captured Monte Fume
Pas?. from the! Austrians and took the
extremo western peak on Monte An
cora. Near Aschkala In northwest of
j Erxqrum the Russians in the' night at*
! tack captured & Turkish hill and pos<
liions, inri lc tins heavy losses on th?
I Turks. 1
Tho British ministerial crisis over
tho universal service may bc avoided,
it ts believed tonight. Sh oui A com
pulsion'sta .win. however Asquith min*
istery is ended unless new elections
are sought by present premier. .
Norway Vessers??*.
I ? London, Apr1* 19-^A LloyiVs dlsr
patch from .Lisbon says the Norwe
gian steamer Terje Vi ken. frota Gal
veston for Lisbon, sank tn the Cascas
Bay, J 5 miles west of Lisbon, Monday
after three exploitons ?board the ves
p sel. The^c?ew .were saved:
May Bar Bryan.
% Omaha, Neb., ApHl 1?-Scat^ere.
return? . .i n .fica t evrtbat;.? the Bryai
"dry? ?tate has been defeated ant
the election of William S. 'Bryana
dcleg?Oe to the 'National <Democfatt$
I convention .is doubtful ?
. .--> - . >' '
NOTE WAS RECEIVED SK
BERLIN. AS SITUATION
EXPLAINED TO CONGHSS
The note wi,, received in Merlin to
day about the timo President Wilson
was explaining the situation to con
greBB in an address similar in sub
stance to the text or the note. Am-,
bas'ador Gerard gave lt Immediately
to the Berlin foreign ordee and the
Un. ted (States now awaits Germany'?
reply- While the noto ts?copsidered
an ultimatum, " lt Beta no trine limit
but asks an Immediate answer. Wil
son believes three or tour days suf
ficient time for Berlin to reply. He
is willing to discus? how submarine
warfare will he conducted within the
limits ot international law after Ger
many abandons her present methods.
Wilson asked nothing of congress andr
his address wee received gravely. Re
publican Leader Mann alone of all op
position openly attacked the' presi
dent. He characterized Wilson's
stand as political'play.''
COPIES OF NOTE GIYKN , .
TO .REPRESENTATIVES OF ,
/ NEUTRALS AT WASHINGTON
(By Associated Press);
Washington, April ?0.-Copien; ?f,
the note were given to ropiesentn?ves
here of neutral nation* oh assumptions
that they aa Interested ?* tho United
Sttte* tn the protection of neutrat?
rights', "fti? doeum??t'war riot given
to belligerent diplomats, Lansing to
day agreed to see Ambassador Von
Bernstorff and a conference will prob
ably bo arranged for tomorrow. Von
Bernstotff has already, made lt plelft
that Germany Is riot- willing to aban
don the uso of submarines, explain
ing their use a? commerco destroy
ers as a retollatlosk ^r W
food blockade. ym?^tntUff? eent Jt :
long despatch to Berlin tonight Inter
preting the Washington ?!tuattoa\
