191i ...
v ac fat rw
VOL LVIII. NO- 95
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916
TWELVE PAGES
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double J-,ny Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
UNEQUIVOCAL NOTE
SENT TO GERMANY
Must Cease Indiscriminate Destruction of Ships or
Diplomatic Relations Will be Severed
NOTE REGARDED PRACTICALLY AS ULTIMATUM
Note Says Hundreds of American Lves Have Been Taken by
Ruthless Work of German Undersea Boats; That the
United States Has Been Very Patient, But That the Time
Has Now Come to Act Incontrovertible Evidence is
Submitted in Proof That the English Channel Steamer
Sussex Was Torpedoed Without Warning by a German
Submarine Demands Are Based Upon Law of Nations
and Manifest Principles of
Washington, April 19. The text of
the American note to Germany, sign
ed by Secretary Lansing and addressed
to Ambassador Gerard at Berlin, fol
lows: Full Text of the Note.
You are Instructed to deliver to the
secretary of foreign affairs a commu
nication reading as follows:
I did not fail to transmit Immedi
ately by telegraph, to my government.
Your Excellency's note of the tenth
instant In regard to certain attacks
by German submarines and particular -
ly In regard to the disastrous explo-
' slon which on March 24 last wrecked
: the French steamship Sussex in the
' English channel. I have now the
honor to deliver, under instructions
from my government, the following
reply to Your Excellency
Facts Established in Case of Sussex.
'Information now in the possession
of the government of the United
, States fully establishes the facts in
the case of the Sussex, and the In
ferences which my government has
drawn from that Information it re
gards as confirmed by the circum
stances set forth in Your Excellency's
note of the tenth instant. On the 24th
of March, 1916. at about 2.50 o'clock
in the afternoon, the unarmed steam
er Sussex, with 825 or more passeng- i
ers on board, among whom were a I
number of American citizens, was tor
pedoed while crossing from Folke
stone to Dieppe. The Sussex had
! iever been armed; was a vessel
'. known to be habitually used only for
the conveyance of passengers across
j the English channel; and was not
i following the route taken by troop
- ships or supply ships. About 80 ot
her passengers, non-combatants of all
' ages and sexes, including citizens of
the United States, were killed or in
jured. Torpedoed Without Warning.
A careful, detailed and scrupulously
impartial investigation by naval and
military officials of the United States
has conclusive!' established the fact
that the Sussex was torpedoed with
out warning or summons to surrend
er and that the torpedo by which she
( was struck was of German manufac
' ture. In view of the government of
. the United States these facts from the
first made the conclusion that the tor
pedo was fired by a German subma
rine unavoidable. It now considers
. that conclusion substantiated by the
statements of Your Excellency's note,
j A full statement of the facts upon
which the government of the United
. States has based its conclusion is in
closed. Inhumanity of Submarine Warfare.
The government of the United
States, after having given careful con
sideration to the note of the imperial
government of the tenth of April, re
grets to state that the impression
made upon it by the statements and
proposals contained in that note is
that the imperial government has
failed to appreciate the gravity, of the
situation which has resulted, not alone
from the attack on the Sussex, but
from the whole method and character
of submarine warfare as disclosed by
tne unrestrained practice of the com
manders of German undersea craft
during the past twelve months and
more in the indiscriminate destruc
tion of merchant vessels of all sorts,
nationalities and destinations. If the
sinking of the Sussex had been an iso
lated case the government of thp
United States might find it possible to
hope that the officer who was re
sponsible for that act had wilfully vi
olated his orders or had been crimin
ally negligent in taking none of the
precautions they prescribed, and that
the ends of justice might be satisfied
by imposing upon him an adequate
punishment, coupled with a formal
disavowal of the act and payment of
a suitable indemnity by the imperial
government. But, though the attack
. upon the Sussex was manifestly inde
fensible and caused a loss of life so
tragical as to make it stand forth as
one of the most terrible examples of
i the Inhumanity of submarine warfare
; as the commanders of German vessels
ar conducting it. it unhappily does
not stand alone.
Indiscriminate Destruction of Vessels.
On the contrary, the government of
. the United States is forced by recent
I events to conclude that it is only one
I instance, even though one of the most
. extreme and most distressing in
stances, of the deliberate method and
: spirit of Indiscriminate destruction of
, merchant vessels of all sorts, natlon
i alitles and destinations which have
become more and more unmistakable
i es the activity of German undersea
vessels of war has in recent months
' been quickened and extended.
No Right to Close Any Part of the
High Seas.
I ' The Imperial government will, recall
i that when. In February, 1915, it an
I nounoed its Intention of treating the
I waters surrounding Great Britain and
1 Ireland as embraced with the seat of
' war and of destroying all merchant
! ships owned toy its enemies that might
j be found within that . zone ct danger.
Humanity.
and warned all vessels, neutral as well
as belligerent, to keep out of the wa
ters thus proscribed or to enter them
at their peril, the government of the
United States earnestly protested. ItJ
cook tne position tnat such a policy
could not be pursued without constant
gross and palpable violations of the
accepted law of nations, particularly
if submarine craft were to be employ
ed as its instruments, inasmuch as the
rules prescribed by that law, rules
founded on the principles of humani
ty and established for the protection
of lives of hon-oombatants at sea.
could not in the nature of the case
be observed by such vessels. It
based its protest on the ground that
persons of neutral nationality and
vessels of neutral ownership would
be exposed to extreme and intolera
ble risks; and that no right to close
anp yart of the high seas could law
fully be asserted by the imperial gov
ernment in the circumstances then
existing. The law of nations in these
matters, upon which the government
of the United States based that pro
test, is not of recent origin or found
ed upon merely arbitrary principles
set up by convention. Jt is based,
on the contrary upon- manifest princi
ples of humanity and has long been
established with the approval arid by
the express asset of all cilivized na
tions. - '
Persists in Carrying Out Policy.
The imperial government, notwith
standing, persisted in carrying out the
policy announced, expressing the hope
that the dangers involved, at any rate,
to neutral vessels, would be reduced to
a minimum by the instructions which
it had issued to the commanders of its
submarines and assuring the govern
ment of the United States that it
would take every possible precaution
both to respect the rights of neutrals
and to safeguard the lives of non-combatants.
Practices of Ruthless Destruction.
In pursuance of this policy of sub
marine warfare against the commrece
of its adversaries, thus announced and
thus entered upon in spite of the sol
emn protest of the government of the
United States, the commanders of the
imperial government's undersea ves
sels have carried on practices of such
ruthless destruction which have made
it more and more evident as the
months have gone by that the im
perial government has found it im
practicable to put any such restraint
upon them as it had hoped and prom
ised to put.
Broken Promises.
Again and again the imperial gov
ernment has given its solemn assur
ances to the government of the United
States that at least passenger ships
would not be thus dealt with, and yet
it has repeatedly permitted its under
sea commanders to disregard those
assurances with entire impunity. As
recently as February last it gave no
tice that it would regard all armed
merchantmen owned by its enemies as
part of the armed naval forces of its
adversaries and deal with them as
with men of war, thus, at least by im
plication, pledging itself to give warn
ing to vessels which were not armed
and to accord security of life to their
passengers and crews; but even this
limitation their submarine command
ers have recklessly ignored.
Vessels of neutral ownership, even
vessels of neutral ownership bound
from neutral port to neutral port, have
been destroyed along with vessels of
belligerent ownership in constantly in
creasing numbers. Sometimes the mer
chantmen attacked have been warned
and summoned to surrender before be
ing fired on or torpedoed; sometimes
their passengers and crews have been
vouchsafed the poor security of being
allowed to take to the ship's boats be
fore the hip was sent to the bottom.
But again and again no warning has
been given, no escape even to the ship's
boats allowed to those on board. Great
liners like the Lusitania and Arabic
and mere passenger boats like the Sus
sex have been attacked without a mo
ment's warning, of fen before they
have even become aware that they
were in the presence of an armed ship
of the enemy, and the lives of non
combatants, passengers and crew have
oeen aeerroyea , wnoiesaie and in a
manner which the government of the
United States cannot but regard a
wanton and without the slightest col
or of justification. No limit of 'any
Kind inas in lact Deen set to their in
discriminate pursuit and destruction of
merchantmen of all kinds and nation
alities within the waters which the
imperial government has chosen to
designate as lying within the seat of
war.
Hundreds of-Lives of Americans. Taken
The roll of Americans who have lost
their lives upon ships thus attacked
and destroyed haa grown month by
month until the ominous toll has
mounted into the hundreds.
United States Has Been Very Patient,
The government of the United States
has been very patient. At every stage
of this distressing experience of trage
dy after tragedy it has sought to be
governed by the most thoughtful con-
i
(Continued on Pap Two)
raragraphs
Swiss to Charter Neutral Steamers.
Berne. Switzerland Anril 19. The
Swiss government has directed its com
mercial department to charter a num
ber or neutral steamers, especially
American, exclusively for Swiss im
portations from the United States and
Argentina.
Destructive Fire In Belgrade.
Paris, April 19. 10:40 a. m. A de
structive fire in Belgrade, Serbia, is
reported in a despatch to the Matin,
from Bucharest. It is said several
hundred houses in the city were burn-
ea.
N.
Y. NATIONAL GUARD
CALLED IN STRIKE RIOTS
At Plant of National Conduit and Ca
ble Co. at Hastings-on-Hudson.
Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y., April 19.
Four companies of the New York
National Guard arrived here tonight
after a riot of striking employes of the
National Conduit and Cable company
had extended beyond control of the
civil authorities.
Although reports were circulated
that the strikers had accumulated
great quantities of stones and bottles
with which to resist interference by
the militia, there was no demonstra
tion when the troops alighted from a
special train and marched into the
plant of the company.
Several hundred men affected by the'
strike lined the railroad tracks, but
aside from a few muttered impreca
tions and some shouting by small boys,
there was no disturbance.
A machine gun which had been used
by the company for testing munitions
in filling large contracts it has with
the entente allies, was moved into
place for an emergency.
L. D. Van Aken, superintendent of
the plant, declared toniffht that an ef
fort would be made tomorrow to re
sume operations.
PROPOSALS FOR A CENTRAL
EUROPEAN CUSTOMS UNION
Is Opposed by the Budapest Chamber
of Commerce.
Budapest. Hungary, April 19. The
Budapest Chamber of Corampm has
passed a resolution expressing Its op
position to the propos'i's for a Vntr.il
iiiopean Customs Union, embracing
Germany, Austria-Hungary and possi
bly Bulgaria.
ine resolution was passed at a spe
cial meeting attended by representa
tives of the ministry of agriculture and
commerce, by men prominent in in
dustry and commerce, managers of all
the big banks, and mine owners. The
chief argument against the proposed
customs union was that it would be
mainly to the advantage of Germany
and Austria, and would merely hamper
tne development of Hungary.
Dr. Paul Szenda. delegate represent
Ing the Union of Hungarian Traders
and Manufacturers, was the principal
speaker. He opposed the customs
union, declaring: "Surely hatred will
not always be dominant in Europe,
and you will only be iprolonging the
ra of hatred by establishing a union
which will antagonize the other group
of powers, with the result that Aus
tria-Hungary will soon find herself
isolated in spite of the unity thus es-
taonsnea.
NO CHANGE IN THE
MEXICAN SITUATION
Expedition Seekinq Villa Remains at
a Standstill.
Washington. April 19. Desnatrhes
from the border or from Mexico today
contained no word of developments
uiiansing tne situation. The expedi
tion seeking Villa is at a standstill,
apparently, concentrated at points
where General I'ershins and General
Funston believe they are best nrotect-
ed against whatever may come.
ine only messages received, the sub
stance of which was made public were
of a reassuring nature. A consular
despatch said General Pershing's de
sire to change the loca tion of h i si m
advanced base near Parral hn.fl met
With no Opposition bv th Currant
authorities. General Pershinc is un
derstood to have desired to establish
his base at that point to make com
munication with the rear guard less
U1II1CU11.
oiaie aepartment official nnim.i
out that while the site of this new
base was not revealed, it was to be
nearer than the old one to Parral, the
town where the Americans were fir.,i
upon last week by Carranza soldiers
or civilians.
GATHERING EVIDENCE
OF VILLA'S DEATH
Officials at Mexico City Give Credit to
First Reports.
Mexico City, April 19. Accord! nff to
messages received here, evidence con
ciliatory to tne death of Francisco
Villa is being slowly gathered. Offi
cials are now more disposed to give
credit to the first reports of the find
ing of the grave of the bandit. One
report today said that the Indians who
had cared for Villa during his last
illness had been located and deposi
tions taken. According to these affi
davits illa dffed of blood poisoning
At the foreign office full credit is at
tached to the statements of these In
dians. FIFTEEN CIVILIANS
EXECUTED AT CHIHUAHUA
Were Concerned in Villa Plot to Seize
the Garrison.
El Paso, April 19. General Gavira.
commander of the Juarez garrison, re
ceived a message from General Gutier
rez, military governor of Chihuahua,
stating that fifteen civilians concerned
in a Villa plot to seize the Chihuahua
garrison were executed by the firin"
squad today.
Another despatch -to General Gavira
stated that General Luis Herrera with
a large force of men was proceeding
to Parral to take charge of the situa
tion there.
CONFESSED MURDER OF
NINE YEARS AGO
Martin
V. Donnelly Tells Story
Pawtucket Police.
to
Pawtucket, R. L, April 19. Confes-
lon that he had shot and killed his
brother-in-law, William Ross, In New
York, nine years ago, was made to the
local ponce Dy Martin V Donnelly to
day. Ross, a street sweeper, he said,
had abused his wife, and Donnelly shot
him down at his work on a street
corner. He will be sent back to New
xork.
Solons Grave as
President Speaks
TELLING OF DEMANDS MADE
NOTE TO GERMANY.
FN
SYMPATHY IS REFLECTED
President Asked Nothing of Congress
Simply Gave Information of Action
He Had Taken Congressman Mann
Only One to Ascribe It to Politioa.
Washington. ADril 19. President
Wilson's long-expepcted final warning
to Germany that the United States
will break oft diplomatic relations un
less she abandons her present methods
of submarine warfare and immediately
declares her intention to do so, was
delivered today in a note to Berlin and
was announced by the president in an
aaaress to a joint session of congress.
I he president demands nothing less
than the abandonment of submarine
warfare against commerce.
Both the president's address and the
American note declare in unequivocal
terms tnat only by Germany acceding
to tne aemand can the absolute break'
mg oil of relations be prevented.
Next Steps Depend Upon Germany.
The president considers that the next
step depends solely upon Germany and
mat tnree or rour days constituee a
reasonable time for a reply. He is
willing to discuss how submarine war
fare may be conducted within the lim
its of international law and humanity
after Germany abandons her present
metnoas.
j-'ipiomauc History records but one
instance as yet where a breaking of
relations oetwee-n two first class pow
ers has not eventually brought war
tnat which now exists between Ger
many and Italy.
Mann Alone Attacked President.
Congress received the president'
declaration of hi.-? course with mixed
evidences of concern and approbation.
Most of the leaders, democratic and
republican, thought the president
hardly could do less, and some ex
pressed the opinion that his action
would not lead to war. Republican
I-eader Mann, alone of all the oppo
sition leaders, openly attacked the
president for his stand. He character
ized it as a political play.
No Opportunity for Double Meaning.
President Wilson's words leave no
opportunity for double meaning. In
his address to congress he said:
"I have deemed it my duty to say
to the imperial German government
that if it is still its purpose to prose
cute relentless and indiscriminate
warfare the government of the
United States is at last forced to the
conclusion that there is but one course
it can pursue; and that unless the im
perial German government should now
immediately declare and effect an
abandonment of its present methods of
warfare against passenger and freight
carrying vessels this government can
have no choice but to sever diplomatic
relations altogether."
When the president had finished
reading he looked up and, seeing Sena
tor Stone's grave face, said:
"You look as sad as I feel."
The chairman's response was to In
quire of the president if he had told
them all he had to say. The confer
ence thus ended.
Gravely Quiet Solons.
The word of the president's plan
spread quickly through congress and
when he took his place at the clerk's
desk in the hall of the house promptly
at 1 o'clock he was confronted by an
assembly of gravely quiet senators and
representatives who greeted him with
applause and later hung Intently upon
every word he uttered and cheered him
heartily when he finished.
Asked Nothing of Congress.
The president asked nothing of con
gress; he came only to Inform it of his
action. He did it In 15 minutes and
congress went back to work solemnly
impressed with the situation which
confronts the country. The scene had
been dramatically human. The r resi
dent's demeanor reflected his state of
mind and an impartial observer would
readily say the demeanor of congress
as a whole reflected its sympathy.
NO NEW DEMAND FOR
WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS
Carranza Agents at Washington Denies
Published Reports.
Washington, April 19. Mr. Aree.
dondo, ambassador-designate, roeclfic-
ally denied published reports that he
had received instruction from General
Carranza to present a new demand for
withdrawal of the troops or to press
lor an eariy reply to ine note he pre
sented last week. He called on Secre
tary Lansing to call attention to re
ported activities of Antonio Villareal
in American border towns toward fost
ering a new revolutionary movement
in Mexico. Mr. Areedondo told the
secretary that v illareal was in hiding
in jareao, lexas. ana tnat he was en
deavoring to raise an expedition for an
invasion or Mexico in support of Villa-
Air. Lansing cirected that the atten
tion of the department of justice be
called to tne matter.
REPORT OF PLOT TO BLOW
UP NEW YORK WATER SYSTEM
Spread When Twenty Detectives
Started Toward Mount Kisco,
New York, April 19. Concurrent
wit a report that a plot had been dis
covered to blow up a part of the New
xorK water system at Mount Kisco,
north of the city, twenty detectives In
automobiles left police headquarters
snrotiy alter o ciock today bound in
tnat direction, 'mey were dispatch
ed by Deputy Police Commissioner
Lord, who said he could not discuss
tne report until he had consulted with
Commissioner Woods.
Commissioner Arthur Woods declsr
edthe trip of the detectives was "mere
ly in furtherance of the department's
steps ror preparedness.
"We wanted to see how long It
would taKe tne detectives to get to
worK in case it should become neces
saly," added the commissioner.
Movements of Steamships.
Kirkwall, April 17. Arrived: steam
er Oscar II, New York for Christian-
sand.
topezia, April IS. Arrived: steamer
btampaua, New York.
New Yoric, April 19. SallwU tun
er New York, Liverpool.
General Scott is
Going to Border
TO GATHER INFORMATION
FOR
WAR DEPARTMENT.
TO ADVISE SECY BAKER
General Funston is to Remain In Su-
pi-eme Command on the Border No
Decision as to Withdrawal of Troops
Expected for a Week or Ten Days.
Washington. April 19. N'o decision
as to withdrawal of American troops
from Mexico is expected for a week or
ten days unless there are new out
breaks against the forces in Mexico
to compel immediate action. This was
made clear today when Secretary Ba
ker dispatched Major General Hugh
L. Scott, chief of staff, to the border
as his personal representative to make
a complete report on the military prob
lems confronting General Funston.
The administration's final action on
General Carranza's suggestion that the
expedition be recalled probably will ,e
based largely on what is shown in this
report. General Scott, who left Wash
ington tonight, hardly will be able to
make the round trip and complete his
observations in less than ten days.
Gen. Scott to Gather Information,
Secretary Baker described General
Scott's mission as being to assemble
complete information as to the border
situation for the use of the depart
menu lie also win establish a per
sonal touch with that situation for
the secretary, of which Mr. Baker has
relt need in advising the administra
tion as to the military aspects of the
Mexican question.
General Scott himself explained thrt
ne would ie tne eyes or il.e secretary
on the border. Accompanied by his
aide. Lieutemnt Colonel Robert E. I..
Michie, of the general staff, be will
reach General Funston's headquarters
at San Antonio. Texas. Texas, next
iTIUay evening.
Funston to Remain in Charge.
-Mr. lianer ihiu stress in his an
nouncement on the fact that General
runston still is in the supreme com
mand of the border situation and ex-
peuiuonary TOrces and will remain so.
He said the department fully approved
every step General Funston had taken
and that General Scott was going only
oecause it nan seemed desirable to get
clearer flew than was possible by
means or omclal reports.
in the meantime state department
officials will take up consideration of
what reply they shall make to the
Carranza note urging the withdrawal
or the American forces. Some ques
tions involved In that note can be
worked out before the military situa
tion niaiiy is reported. It is under
stood .his work will be started tomor
row, the German situation having oc
cupied the attention of officials to the
exclusion of other matters for some
days.
General Scott's orders permit him
to go where he thinks advisable along
the border or into Mexico with the
troops to obtain the close and accur
ate knowledge of the situation wanted
by Secretary Baker. He said tonight
before leaving that he had no present
intention or going beyond the border.
NCREASE IN CONSUMPTION
OF SUGAR IN ENGLAND
Caused by "Pace" at Which the Coun
try is Living.
London. April 19. The increase In
the consumption of sugar in England
since the war points to an equivalen
increase in tne "pace" at which the
country is living and working, savs the
medical expert of the London Times.
He explains:
From the point of view of the Dhv
siologist, one of the most striking re
ports issued recently was that dealing
with sugar consumption during the
nrst year or tbe war.
"People who failed to graso th sic
nincance oi ine ngures spoke In
pained way about a lack of national
conscience and efforts were made to
P reacn economy. .Noliodv pointed ou
mat me nign consumption or suear
was due directly to the fact that war
had whipped up the activities of every
man, woman and child In the country
so that even at a much higher price.
sugar was wortn tne money.
"ine simple truth that one mav fn
ier rrom tne demand from aurar
that the whole rate of life has been
quickened In th(s country. Sugar
the fuel of activity and In activity
more ana more euear is nurned. In
Lngiand, and indeed all over Eurooe,
men are now living at a greater rate
than in times of peace. Civilization,
if you will, is going the pace; and
for the pace sugar is essential no
matter what the price may be."
BARGE HELD UP
U. S. TORPEDO BOAT
Permitted to Proceed After Examin
tion No Explanation.
Bridgeport. Conn, April 19. The
captain of the steam barge Alva, own
ed, by the frank Miller Lumber com
pany of this city, reported to Harbor
Master Lamond on arriving here to
night that his vessel had been held up
and searched ofT Whitestone. L. I, to
day by a United States torpedo boat.
The vessel, he said, was cleared for
action and gave peremptory orders to
stop. After a thorough search t.f the
barge and its cargo, he said, the Alva
was permitted to proceed with no ex
planation. 38 have been In this part of the Sound
It is known that torpedo boats 43 and
recently and members of crews of oth
er beats havo reported that both were
cleared for action. What thir object
is is a puzzl in local shipping circles.
It is not known that any other boat
than the Alva has been stopped so far.
TROUBLE AT AMERICAN
GRAPHAPHONE CO. PLANT
Revolvers Fired and Employes Hooted
and Hissed.
Bridgeport Conn, April 19. Trouble
began this evening at the strike of 600
pressmen at the plant of the American
Graphaphone company here. A big
crowd assembled as the day force was
leaving the plant and after hooting end
hissing, some revolvers were llred. Ont
man was arrested, but. It is said, no
wapona was found on him. No one was
Injured and the police Quickly dlanar.
ed the crowd.
Condensed Telegrams
Mr. Oppolins Rhsaul. aired
192
years, died at Pittsburgh, Mass.
Franc is buying prima western
spelter in the American market.
Twelve student hazera have been ex.
pelled from the University of Louisi
ana. Bringing 214 puasssnaers. the Tit-A
Star liner Lapland arrived at New
York from Liverpool.
All duties on imports Into Mexico
will be payable In Mexian arold coin
on an after April 80.
Yzaak Vandenburo a orominent res.
ldent of Baltimore, committed suicide
at a hotel in New York.
Articles of incorporation were filad
at Dover Del., by the Hammond Anna
Co, capital $25,000,000.
The trial of the Quaker Oata Ca
ter alleged violation of the anti-trust
act was opened in Chicago.
All the 12-inch aunt on the Kttl.
ship Michigan have been declared de
fective and ordered removed.
The cause of prohibition In Smith
Dakota gained heavily aa a result of
luesuay s municipal elections.
The Bank of Enaland botieht 1(1? .
000 bar gold and shipped 200.000 pounds
in sovereigns to me continent.
uamage of 350,000 was caused In
me i-tciaieDerg. l a, plants of the Aet
na Chemical Co, by an explosion.
Dr. Walter T. Holmes, for twenty
years a practitioner of dentistry at
isew naven, a lea there, aged 45 years.
The New Central Railroad has lift
ed its embargo on freight shipments
esiaoiisnca several days ago at Toledo.
The Treasury Deoartment haa In.
creasea us premium on war risk in
surance to England from 11-4 to
per cent.
Carrying 15.C0O baas of mail, a now
record, the American Line s:ramr
New York sailed lrom N'rw Tnrlc fn.
UTerpoou
The House voted to insist in confer.
ence on Its free sugar ren.l t,m in.
definitely postponing suspension of the
sugar import lax.
An eight-day camoaian held in Xmt
Brunswick. N. J, to raise S150.000 for
a new x. ai. c A. building, closed
who tio.vuu pledged.
The momma newsnaoera rf Brl;
do not refer In any manner to relations
with the I'nlted States or to the ex
pected American note.
Effective May 1, the United States
feteei coropratlon announced another
increase in tne wages of its employes.
uuuuoudk to iv per cent.
Emperor William donated $25,000 to
tne renei associations enairel In re
building East Prussian towns destroy-
eu in ine nussian invasion.
About 1,000 employes of the Henry
" unuingmn pump piant at liarri
son, X. J., went on strike for more
pay ana snorter working hours.
A severe earthquake, estimated to
nave occurred 4.Z00 miles from Wash
lngton ,and lasting 50 minutes, was re
corded at ueorgetown University.
Forty grave diggers at St. Raymond s
cemetery. West Chester, L. I, returned
to worn, having been granted an it.
crease or za cents a day l.i pay.
An American hospi'al train, recent
ly p-esemed to the Frtrcli armv. ar
rived In Paris wit.i a load of wound
ed on !ts nrst trip from the front.
According to the British Board of
trade. 3.1 17 non-combatants have lost
their lives during the war rn maritime
disasters caused by mines or subma
lines.
Major General Leonard Wood, former
chief of staff and now commander of
the Eastern department conferred with
Secretary Baker and Major General
Scott.
Senate democrats in conference de
cided to enact Into law the house bill
repealing tne provision in the Under
wood-Simmons tariff law which would
have placed sugar on the free list May
1. 1916. .
Senator Phelan, dem, of Calif, to
day Introduced a joint resolution to re
affirm the belief of the United States
In peaceful scettlement of international
disputes. 4
In order to save light and fuel, the
French Chamber of Deoutls unani
mously voted to set back the clock In
franco one hour during the coming
summer.
Governor Stuart of Virginia mixed
his dates and arrived at Harrfbur
Va to address a meeting of the Kock-
mgnam farmers' Association, schedul
ed for May IS.
James Crede of Jacksonville. Fla,
was arrested for disorderly conduct In
New York City as he was trying to sell
$10 bills for $1 each. lie had not made
a sale when arrested.
Firs of unknown origin destroyed the
grain elevator of the C. A. Gamhrl'l
Mfg Co, at Klllcott City. Md, together
with 16.000 bushels of wheat. The loss
was estimated at 1200.000.
One man was killed and the rest of
the crew narrowl escaped death when
the tug James McDonnugh was sunk at
the Bush Terminal, Brooklyn, by the
mash of a passing steamship.
Stockholders of the Attas Powder Co.
at a meeting at Wilmington, Del, vot
ed to Increase the preferred stock $4.
00.000 and the common stock $ 3.000,000.
making the total capital $20,000,00.
A bill providing that proprietors of
public places and railroad carriers who
discriminate against United States sol
diers because of their uniforms may be
nned up to isoo was adopted by the
Senate.
Thres Grman stesmships, interned at
Brazil, will be leased to Brazil for
for coastal service until the end of the
war. ir a guarantee or tneir immunity
of attack or capture by tbe Allies Is
received.
Preparedness through physical edu
cation Is the general topic to be dis
cussed by the delegates attending the
23d annual convention of the Ameri
can FhvsfcaJ Education Association
which, gal at Cincinnati. O, today.
GERMANS ADVANCE
IN BAYONET CHARG
apture a Stone Quarry to the Northwest of Verdun,
But. Suffer Heavy Casualties
ARTILLERY IS ACTIVE
At Les Esparge the Germans
Front of 200 Yards, But Were Immediately Expelled
Artillery Duel Are in Progress on the Russian Front
Italians Have Captured Monte Fume Pass From the Aus
trians Another Defeat for the Turks in the Region of
Erzerum is Announced Premier Asquith Has Post
poned Until Next Tuesday His Statement About Conscription.
The Germans near llaudremont.
northeast of Verdun, In a bayonet at
tack in which heavy casualties were
inflicted on the French, have captured
atone quarry, around which they
gained a footing Monday. .
There has been considerable artil
lery activity west of the Meuse on
Hill 301 and the French first lines be
tween Dead Man Hill and Cumicres.
At Les ETarires the Cormim ftnr
three weks. entered Frer.eh trenchs
on a frOT.t of about t00 yards, but were
immoiiiateiy etro:i-l from thtm, suf
fering serious losses.
Artil!e-y duels are sti!! In pro2Tes
on the Russian front, but there has
been no important change in positions.
A Russian attack against AuMnan po
tions on the upper Sereth River, in
Gal tela, was repulsed.
The Italians have captured Monte
Fume Pass from the Austrians and
taken the extreme western peak of
Monte Ancora, wherj the Austrian
DUTCH GOVERNMENT PROHIBITS
THE EXPORT OF SHIPS
Bill Passed in Parliament With No Se
rious Opposition.
The Hasne, Netherlands. Apr IT 19.
A bill to prohibit the export of ships
also their chartering except by gov
ernment consent has Just passed both
chambers of the Dutch parliament,
where It met with no serious opposi
tion. Holland's supply of essential neres
sities from overseas has leen endan
gered, for In present circumstances
he is forced to depend practically en
tirely on her own merchant fleet, anl
Dutch shipowners have been tempted
by fancy prices and safer waters else
where to charter their boats for en
tirely foreign services, as, for instance.
In the traffic New York-Marseilles.
New York-Australia. Chile-North
America and North -South America.
Even of the Dutch ships which do
continue to trade the home ports a
goodly proportion are engaged in sup
plying lielcium, through the commis
sion for relief in Belgium. Moreover,
the longer average voyages owing to
the closing of the Baltic and Black
Seas, aix the increased length of the
voyage 10 the Far East round the
Cape of Good Hope, have all contrib
uted to decrease shipping room.
On top of all this comes the sale of
ships abroad, tempted by trebled
and more than trebled prices. Ac
cording to Ami res presented to the
chamber by the minister in charge of
the bill, the Netherlands merchant
fleet decreased between Aur. 24. 1913.
and February 10, 1916. by II ship of
over 400 tons, and totalling 104.000
tons, and Increased by only 12 ships of
38.000 tons, thus experiencing a de
cline on balance of 19 ships and C6.-
000 tons In less than six months. When
to these figures are added the numer
ous losses by mine and torpedo in the
short intervening period It will oe
easily seen how serious the position
was becoming.
Henceforth no permission for the
sale of ships will be granted un1es It
la shown that the vessel in question
cannot be profitably used and that a
new ship for replacement is ready.
Some demur was made in par!l-ment
to the Inclusion of ships building In
the busy Dutch yards tinder the bilU
as endangering the shipbuilding In
dustry, which Is just now so prosper
ous. The minister stuck to his point,
however. Permission to export such
new ships will only be given where It
Is shown that the vessel was destined
for abroad from the very commence
ment of Its construction and where
the Dutch merchant lie fleet is not In
definite need of a ship of this sort.
BRITISH CABINET CRISIS
NOW LESS ACUTE
Hopeful Feeling That Breakup of Gov.
srnment Will bo Avoided.
London. April 19. 10.S1 p. m. After
the ministerial conferences this even
ing a more hopeful feeling that the
breakup of the government will be
avoided prevailed In the parliamentary
lobbies. Jt was Da vhi on nothing tan?
Ible. however, and the general opinion
among the public, owing to the unci
pectedly grave nature of Premier As-
culth s statement In the house of com
mom. Is that the life of tbe ministry
nanas Dy a tnreoa.
CROWDS MAKE ANTI-AMERICAN
DEMONSTRATION AT TORREON
Carranza Troops Wsrs Employed
Dispersing Ostherlngs.
Torre n. Mexico. April IS. via El
Paso Junction. April If. Carranza
troops were employed today in dis
persing crowds that had gathered for
ait anti-American demonstration. Proc
lamations had been Issued at Torreon.
Laredo and Gemez PWaeio. calling on
"ail loyal Mexicans" to meet In a the
atre at Gomez Palacio to discuss steps
to be taken against the American In
vaders, ...
WEST OF THE MEUSE
Entered French Trenches On a
trenches were shattered with heavr
casualties to th"ir occupants.
Still another defeat to the Turks
In the region of Ereerum Is recorded
by the Russians. Near Aftchkala the
Russians in a niht attack captured
stronciy orr.ized hills and inflicted
severe casualties on the Turks, who
l ft hundreds of dead on the field of
battle.
I Tern Ier Asquith has poLroned un
til next Tudiy a statement of the
liritith povrmm.-T.fs position with re
gard to conscription. The premier has
told the house of commons that unless
the disagreement among ine members
t the caainet ran be amicably settled
:here will be a break-up of tbe coali
tion ministry.
The reply of Great Britain and
France to the American government's
protest acalnst their interference with
maritime commerce has been cabled
to Washington.
Greeee has formally protested
aeatnst the use by the entente power
of Suvela P.ay, Island of Crete, for
a naval base.
WOLFE VON IGEL MUST
STAND PROSECUTION.
Decided That No Diplomatio Immunity
Stands in the Way.
Washington, April 19. The attorney
general's office Is understood to bare
decided to prosecute Wolfe Von LreL
Captain Von Papen's former secretary.
who wa8 arrested yesterday in New
xork on an indictment charrlnv hwn
with conspiring to blow up the Wel
land canal, notwithstanding the 0r--
man ambassador's request (ho
Igel be released.
Counsellor Polk of the fit to A-nr.
ment yesterday advised the department
of justice to free the prisoner unless
ine onense was committed before he
became a member of tbe embassy stair,
Aa the crime Is alleged Ut hv t.
committed in September. 1914. rhii.
on Igel was not reirlnteri .
embassy employe until December, 1915.
j ununu oi ine government is
said to have concluded that no iikIa.
matlo Immunity stands In the way of
In fact, some officials contend that
clerks or secretaries of embassy at- '
taches. even though formally registered
aa such, enjoy no immunity.
It has been reported that the stats
department was consulted before Von
Igel was Indicted and officials of the
department of justice have mads it
clear that they would be guided en
tirely by the wishes of rhe stats do
department in respect to the case.
Official documents seized In Vn, t
pen's office when Von Igel was ar
rested will be returned to the German
embassy. Secretary Lansing today as
sured Count Von Bernstorff that this
would be done, after the latter hd
called at the state department and
emphasized his demand of yesterday
that the papers be returned r
papers, which embassy officials imnM
most anxious to recover, are said to
be partly In code and their examlnav
tion would reveal the key to the Ger
man official cipher. -- -
VON BERNSTORFF SENDS
LONG DESPATCH TO BERLIN
Believed to Advise That the Unilii
States Means Just What It Says.
Washington. April 19. Count voa
Bemstorn. the German ambassador
sent to Berlin tonight a long despatch
interpreting the situation tn Washing
ton and making certain recommenda
tions. He Is understood to have ad
vised his government that he believed
the United States meant Just what la
said In Its submarine note and that
something would have to be done
quickly is friendly relations wers to
continue. i
The ambassador himself. having
read the address of the president and
secretaryotaevh noeinow Is the time f
tbe note, said:
"I can make no comment either up
on the address or upon the communi
cation which has been sent to my
country."
However, he was authorltatlvey dee
scribed as having advised the Berlin
foreign office n the message sent to
night that he believed at least sorts
such declaration a fhnt mad regard
ing the conduct of submarine warfara
in the Mediterranean Sea should be la.
sued Immediately to cover all subma
rine operations.
PTOMAINE POISONING FROM
EATING LIMBURGER CHEESE
Three You nq Children Are Seriously
Sick at Msridsn.
Merlden. Conn, April 19. Theodore
Miller and his three children, Gertrude,
Rosalie and Joseph. 7. S and 4 years
respectively, are confined to their beds
as tbe result of ptomaine poisoning
from eating limburger cheese Tuesday
evening. The three children were un
conscious until five o clock this morn
ing, while the youncest child suffered
from convulsions. All are expected to
recover according to the statement tl
the attending physician.
V ... A . .an.. -.' v. . . f. - .
w .... -
a Ii.ii ! w
