T0
____twwam 4TH KE IERALD
dram,~~~~ ofomd 7"DY
in the diplay column of >b peoW DY
by a~ Wa~hi.... ..6: .. r1. L BEFORE
a..ou ced Ja..ary 1, 1916. ETE.
(Crcula Prsheid Upon Roue*.)
NO. 3472. WEATHU-PARTLY CLOUDY. WASHINGTON. D. C.. THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916. ONE CENT.
SEIZED PAPERS
BARE. VAST NET
WOVEN BY SPIES
Departure of Von Bernstorff
Predicted if He Claims
All Von Igel Data.
PLOT DIRECTORS KNOWN
Financial Head of Organiza
tion and All His Aides De
clared Identified.
Van Bernstorff Demands
Return of Spy Papers
Count von Bernstorff, the
German Ambassador, has made
a formal and emphatic demand
upon Secretary of State Lan
sing for the immediate return
of the papers which Depart
ment of Justice agents seized
from Wolf von Igel, private
secretary to Capt. von Papen,
former military attache of the
German Embassy.
The Ambassador considers the
seizure of the papers as a di
rect violation of the recognized
rights of a German diplomat as
he considers the arrest of Von
gel an infringement on the
sos ereign rights of Germany.
sy New York Sun ervieep.
N . Yeork, April t:.--The complete In
r workings of the Teutonic spy system
n America-the financial head, the at
-ged directors of the plots to destroy
. ommerce, the list of the spies who ob
tain secret information-may be laid be
rore the public as a result of the seizure
of a mass of papers on Tuesday morn
tng in the former headquarters, room 601.
ti whall treet, of the dismissed German
military attache. Capt. Franz von Papen.
While the State Department and Count
s Bernstorff, the German Ambassador,
nae wrestling today over the question
s to whether these papers belonged to
the .erman Embassy, the startling proph
was made by a government flthority
Tha if Count s--n Bernstorff claimed the
wnership of all the papers seized he
oould b"o hs way out of the euntry
athi two wska.
Nes Fields Opened L p.
T: ;aper+ which were left in charge
rWolf vst Igel. the young German
o n. oTther who has been arrested on a
+. g. of patilisating in a plot to blow
.- W5,n' 1 'anal, are said to have
r sod t'- lederal authorities with in
n presnng new avenues of
.to nm..sa'c-s g new secret agents
- .ain. e . anc for whlh a
-. ~ ~ ~ ~ d b it, ,ie, een made,
n nt= .-on to ha e been en-'
sa ot of successor
n, thou:h wth less authority,
u ! n, an u work that had1
. en stonped. Van ]gel.
I - n ':thorities. looms
t ; German upon whom1
r.a r.nt of routine work
sto .'arr n nder the advlei
or, sr eriencd men than
rpt ins) Recoeds.
\suAthr gNung; man wais virura'y,
S- nm ss mr:t-i . it is asser'ed. cC
:Ile < -m n spy% sy.stem. It is said liat
Sk--- mo a sate bearig the seal of the
imlsinei sma- Government a arge
Cur - of p.pers diealing with violations
can .:s I n~id tates laws i Ge m'in
.rt , r . I German simpathizers
The eals found in Von gel's office
ciii there ar- hundreds of them-are enid
to show that Von tgel was a sort of pay
mraster for the German spy system; thnt
he cashed checks drawn by Von Papen.
Rnd other official representativeg of Ger
many. and that he handed the money te
persons sent on secret missions.
Embassy Oficials Mentioned.
It is said that the federal investtgators
have learned that Von Igel received many
payments from Dr. H. F. Albert. tte
tsca agent of the German government
n America and prify councillor of the
German embassy. The document shows
aliso dealings at a qoestionabte aba-scer
with othe-r members of the Germssn e
Bryan Coming to Capital
To Try to Prevent War
R, litratinal Ness hssi-.
St. Louts, April '9.-"I be
liesve it would be a critne
against civilization for this
country to go into the war, and
therefore .nwise for thin coun
try to do anything that would
increase the chances of going
into the war," said William
Jennings Bryan today, before
leaving St. Louim for Washing
ton, where he said he was go
ing to try to prevent the United
States from entering Use war.
OBREGON WOULD
FORCE WAR ON
UNITED STATES
Vexican Leader's Faction De
dared to Be Helping Along
Disaffection.
CRISIS BELIEVED NEAR
Report Sent to State Depart
ment Said to Contain De
tails of Complications.
)C
Carrana Fears Plot
Hatched in the U. S.
Formal protest against the or
ganization on American territory
of a new revolution against the
Carranza government of Mexico
was lodged with Secretary of
State Lansing yesterday after
noon by Eliseo Arredondo, Mex
ican Ambassador-designate to
the United States.
Mr. Arredondo told the Sec
retary that he had been directed
by his government to inform the
United States that Antonio Vil
lareal, a former Villista general,
is at present at Laredo, Tex., or
ganizing a force of former Vil
listas and Huertistas to invade
Mexico.
Villareal, who was arrested
several months ago by Federal
authorities in connection with
border troubles, was released ten
days ago at San Antonio, Tex.,
under bond of $r,ooo, pending his
trial.
By H. H. STANSBURY.)
Inteatieoasl Ness geries.
El Paso, Tex. April 19.-The Obre
gon faction in the de facto govera
ment of Mexico Is making a desperate
effort to force First Chief Carransa
to declare war against the United
states.
This information was received to
lay from Chihuahua.
That a real crisis has been reaced
in the negotiations with Gen. Car
ranza is declared to have been re
ported to the State Department. The
message received here said:
"Consul Letcher's most recent re
ports are of such a nature that they
should compel Washington to make
them public.
Supplies Still Are Held.
"All supplies shipped over the Mex
ican railways and intended for the
American forces through consignment
:o private individuals are still being
seld here.
"When an explanation was demanded
he reply was given that the supplies
yould not be released without an order
'rom Gen. Obregon.
"The nine cars of grain and forage
which arrived here last Thursday morn
ng were confiscated.
The efforts made by Consul Letcher
o secure the release of the several ship
ments and have them forwarded to San
Antonio over the Northwestern railway
save been ignored.
"Gen. Luis Herrera left Chihuahua en
oute for Parral on Sunday night in com
nand of the Morelos and Juarez brig
ides.
Vila's "Death" Forgotten.
"The Mexican officials are no longer
endeavoring to substantiate the report of
Villa's death. Gen. Luis Gulterres said
he information never amounted to more
han a rumor. Consul Letcher said there
was nothing in the story of Villa's body
saving been found.
"Thirteen Villistas were executed this
-norning for plotting to overthrow the
arranza garrison.
"Private Eichenberger, of the Tenth
Cavalry, ' who has been missing since
he Parrel fight, has been located south
ast of Parral, according to a report
'rom Col. Brown to Consul Letcher."
The message does not state whether
Eichenberger was found dead or alive.
le is believed to be the courier sent by
7ol. Brown to ascertain what had hap
wned to Mat. Tompkins, in command
when firing was heard In the direction
tf Parrat.
A mesnikr of the Alvarado Mining and
Stilling Company reached El Paso from
Parral today with a first-person story
>f the fighting. His report has been
5CIpted by Gee. Bel., and it relates
hat but one Mexican was kiiied. The
M~exican wounded consisted of one man.
see woman and one child.
Four aeroplanes passed through El
Paso today en route to Columbus as ex
pres.
The bill of lading showed that the
shipment originated at Newport Nsws.
The stipulated transportation chares
we re 100.
Acting under orders from Secretary of
War Baker, Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott,.
Chief of Staff of the army, left Washing.
toe at 6:15 o'clock last night for sa An
tonic. Tex.. to center With Maj. Gee.
P'rederiek Funstona concerning the mili
tary situation gad outlook of the Ameri
ran tan n Mexiart.
U-BOA
U.S.
WI]
(A '
T. R. SCORES
WILSON NOTE
Colonel Pillories President for
Policy, No Matter How
Berlin May Act.
(By New York San Service).
New York, April 19.-Col. Roosevelt
gave out a statement today saying that
if Germany now does as President Wit
son demands, it will prove that Germany
would have given in when he wrote the
strict accountability note if he had taken
the proper position at that time, thus
preventing the Lusitania disaster, and
removing the present causes of friction.
And if Germany does not do as the
President demands, the Colonel said. the
strict accountability note is unpardon
able.
The Colonel's statement, which thus
pillories Mr. Wilson's action, whatever
its effects on Germany may be. said:
"Fourteen months ago the President's
strict accountability note to Germany
if it meant anything, meant at least
what the present note means.
'If Germany now does as the President
demands, it will be proof positive that
if he had chosen to take the proper po
sition at the time of the original strict
accountability note, the lives of all these
women and children, and other noncom
batants would have been saved and the
causes of friction with Germany would
have been removed.
"If, on the other hand, Germany doe,
not do as requested, it is weit to re
member that such a note as the strici
accountabilitys cots fourteen months agc
is unpardonabie. uniess it is backed by
the ifeeds to make the words good.
"If it was meant to be taken sert.
ously and to producs results, it should
have been accompanied by immediate anc
thorough-going preparation, -whereas, as
a matter of fact, we are not noi
stronger by a mani, or a rifle, or a boat
or a gun; and of the same amount of
ammsnition we have manlufactured, a
part was furnsished to the Villiatas, whc
used it against our troops, and some has
sine been furnished to the Carranasite
who have likewise used it against ouc
troops."
Rams, April 19.-Announcement was
nma today that the prise commissioners
have eied twenty-nins Austrian shipi
and fn smeete bats.
T WAR MUS]
WILL END F
EH BERLIN, S)
---I
t"
THE GREAT DIVIDE.
State Department Gives Out
Text of Note to Germany
The text of the note to Germany demanding the immediate aban
dlonment of the "present methods of submarine warfare" against mer
chant vessels, and threatening the breaking off of diplomatic relations
in case of noncompliance was given out by the State Department last
evening. It is practically identical in all important points with the
President's speech before the joint session of Congress yesterday, and
is as follows:
SECRETARY OF STATE TO AMBASSADOR GERARth
(Telegram).
Department of State,
Washington, April 18, 116.
You are instructed to deliver to the Secretary of Foreign Afairs a com
munteation reading as follows,
I did not fail to transmit Immediately, by telegraph, to my government
Your Eoeelleney's note of the 10th Instant in regard to certain attacks
by German sabmariaes, ad particularly In regard to the disastros
explosion which on May 24, last, wrecked the French steamship Sussex
In the English Channel. I have now the hemor to deliver, under instrue
tinas from my government, the following reply to Year Exeellecy.
Information new In the possession of the government of the United
States fully establishes the facts In the cae of the Sussex, and the In
ferences which my government has drawn from that information It regards
as eenirmed by the cireumstanees net forth in Your Excellency's note of
the 10th instant. On the 24th of March, 1914, at about 2,50 O'clock In the
afternoon, the narmed steamer Sussex, with 325 or more passengers on
boeard, among whom were a number of American citineus, was torpedoed
while crossing from Folkstone to Dieppe. The Sussex had never been
armed; was a vessel known to be habitually used only for the convey
ance of passengers across the English Channelt and was not following
the route taken by troop ships or eapply ships. About eighty of her
passengers, noncombatants of all ages and sexes, Including citisens of the
United States, were killed or Injured.
A careful, detailed, and serupulously Impartial Investigatles by uaval
and military offieers of the United States has coneclively established the
fart that the MSOsex was torpedoed witbout warming er oummaus to sr
reader cad that the torpedo by which she was struek was of German man
ufactare. In the vIew of the goversatent uf the United States those facto
from the rest made the conelusion that the torpedo was Qred by a Gee.
man submarine unovoidable. It now consIders that eonelualos subsa
tioted by the statemests of Your Excellency's mate. A full statement at
the facts upon which the government of the United Status has bused its
conclusion is laelosed.
Tbe government of the United States, after hayIng gIven esrefui con
sideratlon to the note of the Imperial Government of the 10th of Apati,
regrets to state that the ImpressIon made sae It by the statemento, ase
proposals coatatned is that note Is that the Imperial Gevernment hus
failed to appreciate the gravIty of the oituatton which has rounited, net
alone from the attack oa the Sussex, but from the *whoe method end *&
meter of aubmarine warfare as disclosed by the unrestrained practis et
the commanders of. German undersea ernft during the post twolvemuth
and mare in the indiserimisate destruction at merehant voso e f al
aorta, natIonalitIes, and dratiatioss. If the -sinkig of the BSsog e been
an isolated cane the governmenot of the UnIted Stoics might God it pe
alble to hope that the oficer who wa responsible fur thaat Oct hod wil
fully violated his orjees or had bees criminally neglIgent in tnkm us.e
of the pretios they preterihed, and that the ends of lustien &t ho
stisied by imposing uon him an adequate pommiahhuat, oaupiod with a
formal dIsavowal of the act and payment of a utule indesmity by tho
Imperi Government. But, though the attack upon a SuBson was seeni
feutly' indefesie and enused a less of lifs no traa us to make it atond
forth us one of the most tes'rible examples at tho ldhmanity et autoa
mouned omn== page u. .
F STOP OR
E LATIONS
NYS WILSON
NOTE TO GERMANY
CALLS HALT AND
THREATENS BREAK
President's Message to Kaiser Almost
Identical with Speech Informing
Congress of His Decision
on Submarine Issue.
President's Explanation of
U. S. Ultimatum to Germany
"Ualero the imperial gevermest should immedIately declare and ef
fect .s hea.aet . f its preet method. .f sbmare war.r.
agatast passeer and tfreight-easryvag v....ar the govrernmet ot the
United states emu have me choice bet to ever dipiomatle relettes with
the German w-mee altegether."
-Secretary of State annsing In his note to BerUin.
w.owe t to due rege. f. r .r ew. ight. .o .aon. to e
.s.e of dety as a representative of the rights of nestrans the wort
ever, and to a ant eoeeptioe of the rights of mankina to take this
atad now with the absent seem.aty ed arme. I have taken it, and
tahen it in the eeadaee that it will meet with year approvl and sp
port. Anl soier-m aded meast unite in hepag that the tematol tea..
ma. govermet. which ha in other erematams== sted as the cham
pfea of all that we are sow ee'otdiag for In the teterest of he .
may reesgmaoe the jsttee of mr demnda and meet thom in the sprt
In which they are made.
-President Wilson in his address to Congress.
Z?~~ . he me.a
President Wilsen has served atics n Gemmenmy to cheese rstieildy
,elweem.... - .satof ts prese.t .elde .f eub..,i.e woga,.....er.
nce of ipl.matic relations with the United States. The President adhussed'
"engreb in joint sessis. yesterday and informed that body of the s is. he
aad take. no President's note to Germany setting forth this demand had
aready been sent hors before to Berlin.
The note, which is practicaly identical with the President's addrse to
:engress, was made public last evening. As predicted, it is a scathing general
indctment of Germany's submarine policy, coupled with the assertios that the
United States has new reached the point where it regards this submarine war
fare incompatible with the rights of neutrals and mencombatante and the
iaciples of humanity.
"Unless the imperial government should now immediately declare and
effect an abandonment of its present methods of submarine warfare against
passenger and freightcarrying vessels, the government of the United States
can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations with the German empire
.ltogether."
MUST STOP WAR ON MERCHANTMEN.
This is the wording of the demand which the President iakes upon
Germany. All other features of the note are regarded as of minor consider
ation as compared to this demand, for it is upon tlhis. it is explained, that
the German government will act, and upon Germany's action will depend
the immediate scriousness of the situation.
President Wilson is understood to mean by this demand that Grmany
must give up its submarine campaign against merchant shipping and cori
merce carriers altogether. References in his note preceding the den-and
clearly indicate this. At the State Departmert it i- stated flatly that tl
President demands the abandonment of submarine warfare against .
merce carriers. But officials admit that the actual demand in so worded
as to leave this important point open to two constructions. Ore is tit
Germany must abandon its submarine campaign ag-ainst i-erclantmen alte
gether. The other is that Germany must abandon its "precunt s c.'o
of submarine warfare" in fasor of ether me:tiods of s-bmvarime aararc
against merchantmen which will satisfy the Presid rt
GERMANS SEIZE ON DOUBTFUL POINT.
German diplomats here have at oncr seired upon this latter
strution and it is regarded as certain that the President's demand si -c
so understood in Berlin. It leaves Germany an opportunty to riply that
the imperial government will endeavor to conform to this demand by a
revision of the rules now governing the warning of passenger shits a d
merchantmen and by agreeing to adequately provide for the safety of the
crews.
Secretary Lansing, after conferring with Count von Bernstorff, made
it clear that an immediate cessation of Germany's submarine campaign
was the only contingency upon which the matter could he reopened. There
is grave doubt here whether the imperial government will agree to this.
The word "immediately" in the President's demand is the outstanding
feature so far as Germany's reply is concteted. Count von Bernstorff has
not yet had timse to hear officially his government's views. But he under
stands pretty welt what his government's attitude 'will he and he is under
stood to despair of any immediate cessation of the submanne campaign
unless Great Britain in the meantime relaxei the rigouars of the blockade
The seriousness of the situation lies in the fact that Germany, accord
ing to authoritative information here, is not willing to give up its submarine
campaign against merchantmen and President Wilson apparently is unwilling
to accept any further proposals until Germany has first complied with his
specific demand that the imperial gov'ernnment-"immedistely declare and
effect" a change in present methods of submarine warfare.
Vea en Arrest Mao nearing.
Other featurses which detract from any relem, Is thai a hreak with Geinaay is in
,seiect..O .mitenate .nd ,mmediate..weitab. The President hhmsetf Is very
adjstmnent are ptointed out by Germaon sesstnstle. Sapeotary laneiag !!kewlee
dtigate. Germaen npinisn, it i eE- sees little hope, it is leaeed that sev
Plaied., is ust now very miuch aroused .rai members cf the German Emnbassy
agaret the aetion taken here against, staff are aleady making tentative ar
yonnJgen, Capt. von Papen'i former secre- rangemsentsei to ees for Germnany. The
tary. isi arrest 1s chaateithed generat feln i, that the breah wilt
throughout Germany as a flagrapt vlole.' came within a week, pommibty sooner,
Ion or German righit* and an tavasion If the iterlin govaramnent delays the ee
of German soverelgnty, ply mere thsan two or thee days an nig
eril deand fee a reply wilt be sat in
The connausa of opinion heie, in Con. Berlin tiy the t'nilat' Natas ov
