ICritaer
ituenmg
EXTM
K&k-
ii .' i
v
Ecfct
- TOIj. IX. NO. 188
PltrLADEIiPIIIA, THUKSDAY, APIlIIi 20, 191j.
Corimont, lots, it toi Poena Lznaki Courint.
PBIGB ONJB OX
f
;P&
i
IK
k.
if
-fSc
k.
p-
L
IN
f'
K5''
"b
!&
s,1'.
? s
;S '.
brtt .
,"
BUSH IN BOX
FOR OPENING
MACKS FRAY
ied Sox to Play Athletics
in First Game of Sea
. son Here
JiyTH OPPOSING SLABMAN
Today's Probable Lineup
6f Athletics-Red Sox Game
BOSTON.
Iloonfr. rf.
Urott; .
Iloblltzrl. Hi,
Tewln. tf.
Shorten. If.
niirdner, 3h.
Hurry. 5b. '
Thomas, c.
nnth. p.
ATHMrrics.
Milt. .
WrIkH, rf,
Htnink. rf.
(Mrlrlt.n, If,
t.nlnlp, 2I.
MMmif. lb,
ritk. .In.
nrvr. r.
Ilcili, I'.
By. CHANDLER D. RICHTER
After losing Ave sucrcssUo guinea In
Boston and Now York, tho Athletics will
bpoti the home pan ion nt Shlbo Park thin
afternoon with tho Boston Hed Sox, cham
pion of tho world, nn the attraction.
While the fans realize that the Athletics
have no chance for the American l.cnguo
' pennant, nnd critics throughout the coun
try pick the Mnclimen to finish last. It In
llknlv that ii lame rrmtil will attend the
, npenlns game ns there in a great dent of .
Interest In the reconstruction plans or
Connie Mack, wizard baseball manager.
While tho fans thrntiRhoul tho country
are pltyjng Mack nnd local tavern of the
national "game ntlll resent tho wrecking
of tho famous machine, the silent builder
of pennant-winning tcamn Insists that the
Athletics will como back. Ilo recently
declared that tho team had a chance In tho
first division nnd lie Is certain that In 1917
ho will havo a team ns Rood na tho fniuous
combination M btoko up.
MnKimtcsv players, manage! s, critics
.ndjfnus of other cltlen dcclnrc that .Mack
has, overestimated his own ability and
that he will find it Impossible to constiuct
, another team lllto tho famous nggtcgntinu
which swept everything befoio It from
1310 'until tho disastrous world's scries
with the Braves in 1314. It in claimed that
Jlnclt. was lucky In picking up sensational
youngsters from the, collegiate nnd Inde
pendent fields and that ho cannot do It
again.
Mack Insists that he will fulfill his ptc
dlctlon nud Kays that ho has" made Krcat
progtess this sprliiR. 3'ho llvo straight de
feats do not Indicate progress nnd tho
average manager would be looking nbout
for new material bv thli time, but Mack,
with JilV usunl patience. Is giving every
tecruit a thorough trial. Jlo ndiults that
hp must btrengthen two poslilons and wait
for tho dovclopnipnt of his young plichors.
btit considers the hardest part oC his task
over, namely, tho -first training scaion
with the tecpiit liitcliern and filling the.
JMportant post left ncnr(t by tho sale of
'Jack Bapry to the Itcd'Soi, l
, in filling this posltlimOlack lias glyen.
tho baseball sbarpa-thn, ntSTof.thi' initny.
surprigJoUOla pplfuii.tluv will re
celvp hclqro tho Benson olopoy, YVhile other
clubs had . pcouts. co'iilriniplue ti)nor
leagues iihdeollcglale field for yotmgrtcr:,
Mack discovered fiairjnn Witt, ono of tho
most piumlslng iccrnlts picked up by
an American l.easno te.itii slnco iCddle
Collins broko In, playing with n piep
school team In Vermont.
Witt v.us an unknown when ho went to
tho training camp. JIo had not oen seen
n major leaRiio game, nnd wan gicen in
everything but natural baseball Instinct.
Tho youngster was a third "baseman at
Continued on t'neo Thirteen, Column Tho
T)BACCO FUND NEARS $15,000
Fifty Thousand Belgian Soldiers
Trenches to Be Cheered
m
Fifty thousand soldiers In tho mud of
tho tionches wll enjoy ''the.wccil that
chceis" as tho ici,ult of tho collections for
the BefBittH Soldiers' Tobacco Kuud, Tho
depositaries for tho fund, .1. P. Morgan
fUio.. yesterday lepoited that donations
had, leached ?H,L'C0.10.
1'Sich subscription of 25 cents makes It
possible to pertd Ed Rood clBnrettes, a large
paoliaen of.HinolflriK tobacco nnd a box of
matches. In each packatre Is inclosed u
reply postcard, upon wlilclXs .written tho
name of tho neruou maklne the gift.
REMOVE PART OF SPINE
Operation Cures Man Paralyzed by
Assassin's Bullet-
HAKM-rrON. Pa., April 20,-rJerry 'Jodl
flll, of Bunker AW, will not bo a cripple
for Jlfe. as physicittiia feared when a
bullet, said to have been fired by ColgU
Nnrroa, shattered his bplne. '
, FollowliiB tho shnqtlntr he was taken to
tlip Stato Hospital, where it was found
ho was paralyzed from Mia waist down. As
a final resort-an operation was decided
on, and surcoonsleijtpved sceral pieces
of splintered bona from his spine. Jodi.
fill came through tho operation In good
shape, and physlclahs now declare that he
oon will ba ublq to walk hs well as over.
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia ami vicinity
Cloudy, probably-showers and warmer
today; cloudy tomorrotv.
Immediately!
PRESIDENT WILSON
Unless the Imperial German
Government should now IMMEDI
ATELY declare and effect art
abandonment of its present meth'.
ods of warfare against passenger
and freight-carrying vessels this
Government can have na choice
but to sever diplomatic relations
with the Government of the Ger
man Empire altogether.
WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
IMMEDIATELY YRIiquV in
terval of iim.e; without delay;
straightway; instantly; at once,
.And Jesus . touched him,
saying, I will; be thou clean. And
IMMEDIATELY his leprosy was
cleansed. Matthew viti, 3.
LPST ANXI FOUND
FKNPAKT Found wiidi'ii . rtiverut ,.is. ...
5-U Call Boon) 7UI Rf(UB Tnrt5
PI?-iiimMi4 s Arc a
4 1-a.kw lUk , (i
&AI eti
Sill f MwrlHt. uu. ro
i Kijaww'. .
m ar Urtm4k lwk
OlWr t.'1-.t o4 1'vulJa AJ uu I'Jit 1
Thnto liy It tl Smith
FASHION PARADE MODEL
This is only ono of the many
striking young women who arc
successfully boosting the cause of
the Wulnut Street Business Asso-,
ciution in the fnshion display at
Atlantic City. This model led the
parade on the Boardwalk.
CHASE FOR VILLA
HALTED PENDING
, ADVICE BY SCOTT
Shift in Mexican Campaign
Indicated in Chief's
. Visit., . ,,
rSTO
TO WITHDRAW"
The pur.sliit of Poncho Villa is at a
temporary standstill, pending the ar
rival at San Antonio of Chief of Staff
, c
ncott
Indications arc that' after con-
aultation
with General Funston a
change in the campaign will be made.
It is probable both the home base
and the field headquarters of General
Pershing will be shifted.
Carranza's agent in Washington an
nounces emphatically (hat the Mexican
Government has not made demands
for immediate withdrawal of the
American troops. Arrcdondo's in
structions arc merely to begin nego
tiations. The U. S. troops are "itching" to
get at the Carranzistas who attacked
them at Parral. At the front It is the
opinion that the treachery revealed
there means war with Carranza.
The body of Villa has not yet been
produced.
U. S. SOIiMEIlS .IUST ITCII1NI1 v
TO iKT AT CAKKAflZISTAS
(Flya'eroplnne to Namlciulpa, April IS; by
wireless to Columbus. Is', M April 20.
"With fiencrnl Pershing at the front near
Parral. April 18. Over this camp nt cav
alry, concentrated aUthe 'extreme front In
.Mexico, there hnug,3 an ominous tenseness.
Apnrently Inert and renting, the troops
neveitheless virtually have been barri
caded aguinst art expected attack by Car
iai?BUaiul civilians, wth a possible
admixture of YfiU"'a"
J Smnrtlns from the forced retreat from
Conllnurd on Pace Two. Column four
FORTUNE OF HEIRESS
LEFT TO CHAUFFEUR
George M. Stevens Will Get
$259,000 From Girl Whp Mar
ried Him on Her Deathbed
A powerful expression of the love and
faith which Ciraca. WcUiughlln. New York
heiress, bore for George JI. Stevens,
with whom Bho eloped to Philadelphia
and later married on her deathbed In
Havana, Cuba, Is found In the will of
the ypung woman, which has been filed
In tha i Surrogate's court, New York.
With the exception of a bequest of ?10Q0
to. her aunt, Mrp. Catherine Jngles, Miss
JloLaughlln left virtually her entire es
tate, valued at J350.000. to Stevens. At
torneys for Stevens declared today that
there would be no contest.
Miss Mclaughlin the daughter of the
I late Wllllam-p. McLaughlin, deputy chief
of polKe under wimam a. ucvury. ?iimt4
wltH Stevens in her racing automobile lajt
December She. took with her $50,000 In
cash and 11000 in Jewelry from'st saf de
posit box The pair came to PhluuUlpula,
an stopped for several djys nt hotels be
fore proceeding to Cuba. Miss McLaugh
lin was a sufferer ftoro tuberculosis.
When she lfppe4wUb, Stevens, it la said.
she thought her lover a bachelor She
later learned that ft had been dherced by
tils wife tn Maach!eUf. Tbo, decree
wdv ided thai be cou.14 , reinarry or ix
month. riony as performed, how
ver. i Hivm. In Jft after a
special dltastto. had been, ranteS,
COMMISSION PUTS
0. K. ON CUT ,0F
Ill Session tJntil 2 A. M. in
Harrisburg Means Sav
ing of 25 Per Cent.
APRIL BILLS INCLUDED
Order Made Retroactivc-r-Only
Big Corporations Do
Not Benefit
The new electric rntes for Philadelphia
which will mean n saving of nearly $1.
2S0.00O annually for consumers In this
city, wcro approved by tho Stato Public
Service Commission nl 2 o'clock this
morning. The nctlon of tho commission
was retroactive nnd tho now rntes will bo
effective from April 1, of the present
year.
Tho rates for household consumers are
reduced from 10 to 12 cents per kv.
hour to i 37 to 9.83 cents. The city re
ceives n reduction of $10 per year on
each nrc light, with a refund of $160,000
on the contract price for 1915 nnd the
first three month of the present year.
The minimum household rule is cut from
$1 to T5 cents per month.
No reduction Is made to the Philadel
phia Tlapld Transit Coinpunj, the Penn
sylvania Italtmad Company and other
largo power current consumers.
Tho new rate t-chcdtilc was agreed upon
March 10 by tho Klectrlc Company and
the complainants nfter Lhc case had been
beforo the commission for nearly two
years. Public Serlce t'nmmlidonir .lohn
Monnghnti. who haJ been conducting the
caso gave his persoiinl assistance In effect
ing tho compromise nnd the new schedule
was then lnld beforo the entire commission
for the npproval. After a mouth's discus
sion tho necessary approval and oredr
were given (this morning.
TllH l-'OUMAIi OllOlHt.
In Commissioner Alncy's older tho re
duction In city lighting rates was given
ns follows:
"City cnblcs, tpo "C" slnglo are nnd
nrc twin light. K" n .ve.ir; company un
riprgiound. tjpe "C" (dnglo nnd ate sln
glo. J00: nn- twin, SST.fiU: company iieiinl
nic single, toiupanj aerial, type "O" sin
gle. ?71.."0 ; nic uudcigiound, nrc single.
I $si ;in
With ipfeince to the other rates the
I older says:
"llrductioti In rates In city icsldcnccs
' writ be about 30 per cent.
!. "Reduction tn stores nnd all commercial
users of power will be IS to 3li yor cent.
"A similar i eduction to all other small
consumers, but not i eduction to large
I power consume! s.
' "The street lglitlng contract makes a
! cut' nf JlOltOOO for tho current yeur and
! l3o,000 for the last year, it totnl rcduu--Mbn
on HJttlJllJi .basis of St.aRO.OOO. and
!,)t.''yll' make". itir'cfitlmnted., reduction, for
'tho year 191G ofabuul $l,2JJn.0yX ur
low'lne an 'JntroductlcmVcflverlilK "all '.tfit"
l6ltit0 Jtt Issuft; ,jjojl, ttj-wltv-nryVjj;
101C, It Is drdeied that th nbovQ-meu-lloned
plan" of settlement In said public
&tieet lighting rates arc approved, nnd
that ths new- schedule, prepared and pre
sented to tho I'hmmlssion. go into effect
(u of April 1. Iplfi. and ,
"Tho complainant be deemed s.itlsueil
and the iihoio c.iso closed, provided that
tho said Intended reduction of ? 1,030.000
be In fact accomplished to tho satisfaction
of the commission."
Hy the Commission.
(Signed W. 1). U. Alney, Chairman.
xmv sciuoduj.k todav.
, Tho now schedulo of rates affecting
householders and all other small con
sumers will be made public from Hip of
fices of tin; Philadelphia Ulcctrlc Com
pany hfie today.
Tho schedule covers nearly 80 pages.
pNolthcr President IcCnll nor Vice Presl-
iicnt .louusoii oi ijio coini'iiny umu muiit,
any statement this morning until they had
rerelved ollicial notlllcatlon from Harris
burg' of tho Lommisslon's action.
PIRB DAMAGES EDMUNDS' HOME
Early Morning Blaze Cause Loss of
$2000. in Lawyer's Country House.
Upper Floor Aflamo
The country homo of Henry U. Kd
munds, widely known layer, and' president
of the Hoard of Kducatton, was damaged
to Ihe extent of about SHOOK carl) today
bjs tua fires which' Marted under tho roof.
Tho hulldliiK is Iqcated nt Knlrthorpe
btreet and Illdga avenue. It Is a three
story .atone nud framo structure. The
house was being repaired Ju preparation
for occupancy during the rjuiiimer months
by Mr. Edmunds and his family Men
were nt work on the roof, and after they
left last .night It Is believed that sparks
from ii' plumber's stove dropped Into some
Blialpga, The. upper floor was soon, all
ablaze, 'and firemen contested the (lame?
for nearly an hour before they were ex
tinguished. Tho Josh caused by the first
fire Is estimated at about 18000. At
1:30 this morning the Are broke out again,
causing a loss of more' than $100.
DINERS SEE SHOOTING;
MAN AND WIFE DYING
Allentown Man Shoots Wife
and Sends Bullet Into Own
Head Child a Witness
'ALLENTQWN,'Fa.,,ApFU ?0. Nevln J.
Hunsicker, a baker, Is dying at the Allen
town Hospital today as the result of a
selfilnflfcted bullet wound In his head, fol
lowing an attempt to murder his wife,
Lizzie Hunsicker," whom he shot in the
breast Tha doctors say she 'probably will
die.
The shooting occurred late yesterday at
the 'Acorn Hotel, where Mrs. Hunsicker
was employed for some months as a walti
reus. It took place In the dining room In
the presence of a number of guests and the
5-year-old son of the pair.
"I want you to came back to 'live with
me," demanded Hunsicker, as he ap.
proacliej his wife. "I won't do It . I can't
live with you any longer," replied the wife.
The words, had hardly left her lips when
he drew a revolver and fired at her. Then
Hunsicker turned, the weapon upon him
self and fired a shot through his .bratn.
He was rushed to the noamitai in the
ambulance, but when the jiohce attempted
l piato her on a cot beside htm Mrs.
Hunsicker protested, and a. second irta waa
lsary.
J&-,. .. .1
ONE MORE ILLEGAL ATMCR
BY U-BOATS MEANS RUPTURE,
WASHINGTON OFFICIALS SAY
Note to Berlin Leaves No Room for
Debate and Puts Outcome Up to
Germany, Is Opinion
at Capital
Comment at Capital Shows President Will Have' Sup
port of Congress Germans Assert Kaiser Cannot
Agree to Drastic Demand to Abandon Sub
marine War on Commerce
WASHINGTON. April 20. Washington directed attcnlion today to a
conference expected some time before evening between German Ambassador
von Dcrnslorff nnd Secretary of State Lansing. The outconie it is believed,
would be important in its bearing on the demand of the. United States thntj
Germany cease submarine warfare against all but actual war vessels.
The Ambassador and the Secretary of State arc expected to discuss the
United States' view of how submarine warfare should be carried on, once
"present methods" are abandoned. At the State Department it was reiterated
that Germany's present orders to commanders will have to be withdrawn
and undersell attacks confined to warships pending any determination of a
new' plan of operations against merchant shipping.
PARIS, April 20. The world's greatest battle at Verdun, only 135 miles
from the French capital, suddenly took second place in public interest today
yvith arrival of dispatches reporting President Wilson's speech. The
President's strong stand won Instant and unanimous approval here. That
portion of his speech referring to his fight to uphold the principles of humanity
was applauded as one of the finest utterances heard in any capital since the
war began.
WASHINGTON, April 2(1.
One more illegal nttack on any ship, bclligcrant or neutral, whether
Americans arc aboard or not, after Germany has had time to" transmit new
orders to her submarine commanders, will mean the breaking of all relations
this is Washington's view totlny" of the President's address yesterday to
Congress and note to Berlin.
Whether the break comes or not depends on.. Germany, officials insist.
It has erased to be a question of words, and becomes ono of deeds. Comment
in tho Capitol following the President's address shows that ho will have tho
support of Congress in the course he has mapped out.
Germans here in close touch with Berlin declare there will be no break
that Germany will meet the President's demands. In Administration circles
there is far less optimism, though many Senators and Representatives still
believe that the break will be avoided, some counting on Germany's con
cessions and some on. a moderate interpretation of the s,tatemgnj.5.rnadc.ui
TltcinOfe 'and' address, it is agreed on all Sides, .are far stronger and
morff&llfcftihX
,Thcyr tfrepjrtimlly Identical,, unds 'lawycra jpolnl, .out 'Ihaf .they" .narrow the
whole, debate down to ono-issue white
The question rnr law, of responsibility,
of disavowal nnd of indemnity have all
been set aside, nnd the President has
made a single demand that submarine
outrages ceaie. The gist of his whole
position is iiccinren 10 uu mnitu " "
ono Sentence:
'Tnless tho Imperial Government should
now Immediately declare, nud effect nn
ab.iudomucnt C Its present methods of
submarine warfare against passenger and
freight carrying vessels, the Government
of tho United States can have no choice
but to sever diplomatic relations with the
German Kmplre altogether."
NO ROOM I.KFr FCm DEBATE.
This, oulcials point out. Is nn ultimatum
In all but that It falls to name a definite
timo limit
It states what must be done, and what
will follow if the demand Is disregarded.
It does not leave room for debate.
Whether a break will come. Germans
hero say, depends on the evact meaning
of this passage, and they see in It a way
nut of tho cilsis without serious humilia
tion to cither nation. Hut Administration
officials see In tho passage a meaning very
different from that put on It by the Ger
mans. "Tim note means that Germany must
declare she has abandoned tho use of sub
marines against commerce," said a high
official today, "or there will be a break,
A promise to use submarines In future un
der International law would not be accept
able. Wh,en the notq saya 'present meth
ods' It means the submarine warfare on
merchant ships,'
If this interpretation Is that of tho
President. German officials say. a break is
certain, Germany will not abandon tha
use of the submarine, which she bojleves Is
her only weapon against Britain, and
which she also bellees is certain in the
end to conquer Britain and end the war.
But they do not accept tho Interpreta
tion. "The Tresldent says we must abandon
our present methods," said one high offi
cial of the German Embassy- "These
methods were adopted in reprisal against
Continued an 1'ais Two. Column tin
PAIN CAUSES MOTHER
TO LEAP TO HER DEATH
Woman With. 10 Children Dies
at Hospital Doors Family
Says She Fell
Pains she suffered from neuraesthenla
are thought to have caused thefmother of
ten children to leap from a fourth-story
window before dawn this mornlnp.1 The
woman, Mrs. EIslexHoiilcgman. 43 years
old, was found Jn front of they steps of
her home, at 321 Casklll street. She died
as she was being carried Into the Penn
sylvania Hospital.
' Neighbors across the street discovered
the woman when Mrs. Ephrabam VHrown
eteln, 314 Casklll street, who was pacing
the floor with her baby, heard a thud, an4
'looking from the window saw the form of
Mrs. Honlcgman. She summoned, the 3d
and De Iiincey streets patrol, which
rushed the woman to the hospital. Her
skull had been fractured.
Menibers of the family of the dead
woman do not think ens committed sui
cide. They say she went outside to sit
on the front steps when she could not
sleep and they believe that this time the
pain was so Intense that she fainted, and
her head struck a mudscraper beside the I
steps.
Mrs. Hpnicgmen recently was the 1
reothw f twlna,
-- i
4
Uormany does.
STRANGER IN CLERICAL
GARB DISAPPEARS WITH
BOY OBTAINED AS GUIDE
Police Search for James
Cooney, Youth Whom Book
seller Detailed to Assist
"Father Walters," of
Scranton
GONE SINCE LAST NIGHT
James Cooney's absence from his home,
3901 North 10th street, puzzles the po
lice authorities as much ns It mystlllc.i
the boy's parents. Detectives aie also
searching for a man. leprcsentlng him
self as "Father Walter," in whose com
pany James was last seen.
"IPntllAP TOaIIdhu' irlolta.l I,a otni-a a
Frank Quiii. i6 North 9th strcet.-late yes-!
terday, Qulu deals In religious goods. The
caller Introduced himself ns apriest of
the Scranton diocese, who wnsjiero for the
purpose of preaching a sermon last eve
ning at St, Lndlslau.i' Polish Catholic
Church, on Hunting Parle avenue, near
Germantown avenue.
Ho asked tho service of a guide. Mr.
Qulu offered the use of his automobile.
This was declined, as were the proffers of
a messenger or a negro boy to carry the
visitor's luggage, which he said was at
Broad Street Station.
Frank Cooney, clerk in the store, finally
suggested his brother James as guide for
the supposed priest. "Father "Walters'
was agieeable and" Cooney telephoned
Continued on I'uro Two, Column I'iie
Noonday Lenten Services
in. City's Centre Today
EPISCOPALIAN
Old Christ Church, "2d street
above Market 12:30 to 12:55 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev. James R. L.
Nisbett.
Old St, Peter's, 3d and Pine
streets 12:03 to 12:30 p. m.
Speaker, the Rev. Robert B. Green.
Garrick Theatre, Chestnut street
west o? Juniper 12:30 to 12:55 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev. II. Percy
Silver.
Old St. Paul's Church, 3d street"
below Walnut 12:30 to 12;55 p,
m, Speaker, the Rev. Alfred R.
Berkley,
St. Stephen's Church, 10th street
above qhestnut-12:30 to 12:55 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev. Samuel Sic
Comb D, D.
LUTHERAN
St, John's, 6th and Race streets
12:30 to 12:55 p. m. Speaker.
the Rev. C, Arraand TUiller, D. D.
PRESBYTERIAN
First Presbyterian Church, 7th
andj-ocust streets 12:25 to 12:50
p. m. Speaker, the Rev. Quido
Bossard. D. D-
Arch Street Presbyterian
Church, 18th and Arch streets
12:15 to, 12:50 V- m. Speaker the
Rev. Fto'4 Tomkins, D fl.
QUICK
, BOMB THROWS FAMILY OF il FROM BEDS IN CAMDJitt '
A bomb loaded with pieces of metal nnd Iron pipe exploded Djt
the doorsten of Dominic Artielo. 12'i Emerald, street, Camden, enrtv
today, burst through the two doors at the entrance of the hoxtse hudi
threw Artlzio, his wife, seven children nnd two brothers-in-law from' 9
their bids, besides frightening
Jhrtttcicd nnd the doorstep was splintered) but no one was hurt.
A squad of police was needed to, keep the frightened lesittcntd In
check. Artlzio said he hntl no enemies.
TORNADO IN MIDDLE WEST KILLS NINE
KANSAS CITY, Mo., April
and nearly 100 Injured by tornadoes which swept three areas. Is M
Kansas and Mlssouii lant night.
GOVERNOR BRUMBAUGH
Colonel Louis J. Kolb today denied
13 ill. JJc said that lie accompanied the Governor nnd Mrs. Brumbaugh to
Washington last Thursday night, and that tho Governor la now resting at ih
countryjiome of Charles I. Corby outside of Washington. The Governor, he said,
did havertn attack of ncuto Indigestion, but he has recovered.
EX-PREMIER VENIZELOS CANDIDATE AGAIN
ATHENS. April 20. Kornur Premier Vcnlzelos lias decided to stand as.,
randldato for the Chamber of Deputies from Mltylcno on May 7, Tho Venlbelos
party, which refrained from participation In the last general election, 'Will 3
contest nil byo-clectiona hcrcafttr.
iU i;.fUimi UUUJJ VIUUA.X 1SS (JArUS AfM U JtlUTiULiS vjRB
Trv t 1 1VT1TfcT- y"r-v --k-
i-NiiiuiiiK win do iiisconunucd tomonow. Good Friday, nt the leading hotels
ILIlfl 1 f'Htnllrnilttt flf Phllnilplnllin. Thll ffoniulnn wnu i-otiplinil Inilnv tiv ImlnlmAIV
.. ...... .: .
jute piaces which win tespect tins uay are the uellevue-Stratrord, Adcipnta,
Aicadta. Kiigter's. Ititz-Carlton, St. James, IVlalglon, Colonnade, Rlttcnhouse,
Aldlne nnd Jtajcstlc.
LAST STATE HANGING AT MOYA NEXT TUESDAY
Tho last hanging In Pennsylvania will tnko place next Tuesday, tn Moya?
mousing Prison, when Jamca Tidily, of Philadelphia, vwlll be inado to pay tiij
penalty for the mm dor of his wife beforo tho enactment of tho electrocution law
Ir. 1913. The Stato Board of Pardons has refusd eto recommend commutation
ol thu death sentence of IlcIPy. This Is tho second time that tlto board has
tcfuscd it recommendation of clemency In his case. The, board has also declined,
tn rccumnivnd clemency n tho cases of Henry ,T II. Webb, Allegheny and
StalnsluC Wo&ccshoslsl, Beaver, who arc to bo electrocuted.
SENATE DECIDES TO ENACT FREJE SUGAR REPEALER I
AVASHINGTON", April 20 Senate Democrats In conference tastijlglit decided 4
to enact Into law the House bill repeal lug the provision In the Underwood- "
Mlminnnw IrirllT Iniv ivltlpli wmlM lmvn nlnr-n.1 mic-nr nn tho rnft llf ATnv 1 1011? .2
. ..-..... ... ..... ........ ...--..- . . . w ,..nvf.M ...qw. v.. v..v ,. ..wr, a..m , j.v
. PIEL-DEITIJAMES.TMA'Y' A E;W, .JERSEY DAY"
TltrJNTON". Atirtt 20. Onvorniir Fleldert fins. Issued be nroclamanon dosicn;
lifisg
piuyuu wnuruvcr jiussimu ium.upii- wuiiuimh, cuncHca, jioiuicau wyjc anu ini" J
nipfclnl nss7cia(lo'iis' obiorvo tho occasion" 'xvlth appropriate, exorcises. The "p'an ijm
of holding Nev Jcrsoy Duy wa , turmulated by tha Department of Conservation
and Development, as incuiis of disseminating Information respecting- tho f
sources nnd opportunities of Nuw Jersey,
ALLIES CABLE ANSWER TO. AMERICAN NOTE
LONDON, Apill 20. Tho teply of Great Britain and Franco to tho American
note concerning Interference with maritime commerce by tho J3ntento Allies has
been cabled to Washington The communication will bo presented to the
American Government by tho Krcncli and British Ambassadors Jointly. It con
sists of two paits, n long note r.nd n supplement signed by the French Govern
ment. Since Its arrival ut "Washington certain cable changes have been made in
the original note. .
AVANTS U. S. INVITED TO CONFERENCE OF ALLIES
ItOMK. April '0. Former Premier Luigl Luzzatt! Issued a communication
lust night urging that thu United States be Invited to participate In tho coming
commercial conference In Paris of delegates of tho A111C3, Professor Luzzattl's
Idea. Is to make the nctlon of the Paris conference effective by obtaining ther co
operation of friendly neutral Powers. Hes points out that agricultural staples
constitute nlpe-tentlia of tho woild's carrying trade, and argues that a per-,
manent traffic federation is of thu greatest Importance as n measure,
check tho rising cost of living.
GREEKS REPORTED MASSACRED BY TURKS
LONDON. Anril 20. Wholesale massacres of Greeks nt Adrlano
stantlnople and Smyrna aro reported
Post. "In Adrlauoplo and Dcmotica, Turks and Bulgarians acting together,
hays tho dispatch, "killed 140 und wounded 300 Greeks after pillaging their
houses, lit the Smyrna district several Greek villages were raided, 20Q persona
being killed and many wounded. Constantinople was likewise the scend o(
s-crlous massacres, no figures pertaining to which are available. AH the jnas
sacres occurred on April ll,"
miTiriiTA niTrn iv Tn rTTir uactimho cfmtrrcrje
iiilijiju.-v vjnuuuu ii iu uunu itiuxmuo uau"w t
HASTINGS, N. Y., April 20. Four companies of tho ftew York Rational
Guard, comprising 217 officers and men, arrived hpre last night afte,r a riot of
striking employes of teh Nutional Conilii.lt and Cable Company had extended be
yond control or mo civil auuioriucH. j,.
plant, says nn effort will bo made today to
night voted to adhere to their demands,
village.
GERMANY LIMITS
Hljni.lN, April 20. Tho Federal Cpuncll has authorized the Imperial OhB
I'cllor to icgulato thu sale of soap, soap
pounds. According to the Tageblatt.lt Is the Intention to limit the' supply brscap "
To 100 grams (ubout three ounces) per capita monthly, anil oftpth.er substances w
of this class to SCO grams (about' a pound and a quarter) monthly, to be sold
only on presentation of a bread card.
DUTCH SOLDIERS DENIED EASTER FURLOUGHS
THE HAGUE, April 20, "The dangers which tha Government reared have
not S'ct disappeared," declaied the Premier, Dr. von der Linden, to a. delegation
which had requested h!m to allow furloughs Jo Dutch soldiers for tho llasttar
holidays. The Premier said emphatically
declaring the. maintenance of Dutch
strictest meaps "to prevent ow being
NEUTRAL SHIPS CHARTERED BY SWITZERLAND
BHHNB. April 20. The Swiss Government has 'directed its commercUT
department to cliarter a number of neutral steamships, especially Ameriptn,
cluslvely for Swiss Importatlors from the nlted States and Argentina, "Tit
names of tfie steamships and the, schedule will be communicated to belllgerems
for the purpose, of preventing erroneous attacks. Switzerland is virtually depend
ent upon America for her food supplies,
the recent use or sucn targe number j of mercnan -vesasjia tor war purpose?.
' ' "
"TONY" BIDDLE HAS 10,000 CADETS READY FOR WAB
Announcement was made today that A. J. Drnxel Blddle wW eMr UM
PhlladelphU young men at the Drexet
offer will be contingent upon the refusal
o the nlted States set forth In th note
at the clttsen eolaiers have ben arilUng st
NEWS
the neighborhood. Windows wrei
20. Nine persons are Imported deal' j
NOT ILL, SAYS KOLB
tho reports that Governor Brumbauglf ",
2. Vi
- a -iw-vf- a .T-k imnr
.:""-""' " "-""'" ti
Jn a Salonlra "dispatch to thrfoiefnlitlt
jj, van AKen, supennienueni ot ina jw
resume operations. Tho strikers last
but quiet prevailed throughout the 3p
SOAP CONSUMPTION
jiowder and other saponaceous: com
that no, furloughs would bo allow
neutrality 'demanded continuance of tlji
surprised by events."
which have been greatly restricted
Blddle Coiis to Prealdent ytteon. Tl ;
of Germany to acsde to tha dsmiutj v
dispatche4 ta Berlin yetriy Ma,
regular tatervfl for wmm ta jUk
a
I
T
m
