That Vacant House
Let The 7 imcs-Dispotch Find
You a Tenant?Now
fJidjmcmii 9Timrs-fl isimtrij
Try T-D Want Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph I
3th YEAR \"'uu!mRICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES. SSSfVf" -FAIR PRICE, TWO CENTS.
PRESIDENT SENDS ULTIMATUM TO GERMANY;
LAYS WHOLE U-BOAT ISSUE BEFORE CONGRESS
IMMEDIATE CHANGE
ONLY CAN PREVENT
BREAK IN RELATIONS
Communication Does Not Contain I ime Limit,
but Berlin Is Expected to Make Prompt
Answer to Representations.
PRESENT METHODS OF SUBMARINE
WARFARE AGAINST LAW OF NATIONS
ff Berlin Suggests Any Means of Complying
With Demands, United States Will Entertain
Them, but as Condition Precedent There Must
Be Affirmative Declaration That Campaign
Now in Progress Will Be Suspended?Copies
of Note Delivered to Representatives of All
Neutral Nations, but Not to Other Bellig
erents.
i Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
WASHINGTON. April 10. -President Wilson has said his
"last word" on the submarine controversy.
He has told Germany he will break off diplomatic relations
unless present methods <>t' submarine warfare are immediately
ahandoned.
Congress \mis so informed to-day when the President went
in person before the assembled House and Senate and told them
what he had done.
An hour later the State Deportment received word that the
note had been delivered to the Foreign Office in Berlin. It was
then #*!ven out for publication.
TheJj^st obtainable .official and-diplomatic opinion is that
Tri est lu al f o n to night between the two governments is as
follows:
The note to Germany is an ultimatum so far as the question
of severing diplomatic relations is concerned. It is not an
ultimatum on any question relating to war between the two
countries.
The United States rests its case for the present on this note,
expecting a reply from Germany within a reasonable time,
probably a week.
If the German government suggests any means of complying
with the demands, the United States will entertain them. But,
ns a condition precedent to any such suggestion, there must be
an affirmative declaration that present submarine methods will
be suspended. The United States wants no more boats sunk in
violation of international law. an administration official said,
while it is discussing the issue with Germany.
MUST UNB DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS II
GERMANY DOES NOT YIELD TO DEMANDS
ff '';?rrnony refuses to declare its
abandonment o? present methods of'
warfare. the United States must break
i>ff diplomatic relations This would hf
done by rec.illir.Kr Ambassador Gerard
and giving Count von nernstorf! his
passports
Whether war followed would depend
on the future submarine operations of
flermanv.
This statement was made at the
State Department:
"Unless Germany declares an abnn-i
donment of present methods of sub
marine warfare, diplomatic relations
will be broken off. We ask an im
mediate declaration of this abandon-!
ment."
At the White House it was sai<!:
"lTP to the present time Germany has
practically been judge of lier own.
^.?tiorsH. Henceforth the United States;
will he judge. Xo further explanations
will be sought, but the government
will act in accordance with the note."
No hint came from Berlin to-night
as to Germany's probable action. In
diplomatic quarters here, however,
where officials are skilled in the
s<-i*nce of overcoming apparently in-|
surmount abie obstacles. it was sup-|
pcsted that Germany may be able to
pivo assurances with honor to herself;
;m'l satisfaction to this government.
HKKXSTOKFH TO C.AU.
ON I.ANSIXfr TO-DAV
Count von TJernstorff. the Oerman
ambassador. will call on Secretary of
State I.ansing to-morrow. He will
probably make a preliminary statement ,
of the probable intentions of his gov
ernment ami assure the secretary of
its desire to continue its present
friendly relations with the United
States.
It was regarded as significant thatj
ti<> orders were Riven to the State. War
or Xavv Departments looking toward
preparation for possible war with Ger
many.
The most serious possibility seen by
administration officials, apparently, was
that a break in relations might ensue,
l-'ew seemed to feci that to-day's
action would involve the nation in war
with Germany.
It was evident also that the State
(Continued on Second Page.)
Buy-Right Hints for
the Thrifty Housewife
Preparedness is a favorite
(heme now-a-daj's. A subject
that has inspired a new im
pulse and awakened a new
spirit of resolution in every
line of activity, from the
weighty problems of national
government on down to the
acquisition of Easter dresses.
Preparedness is only another
term for anticipation. Putting
off your needs till you need
them Involves hasty decisions
in the end and unpremeditated
obstacles in providing them
that could have been avoided
entirely by giving heed to the
.need, instead of persuing a
course of procrastination.or. as
Prepare Now for Easter
Study T.-D Advertising
it is now popularly expressed,
"watchful waiting." Procras
tination is not only the "thief
of time," but robs initiative of
its truest value. Expediency
now is a well-advised sugges
tion in selecting your Easter
apparel. The big stores and
the many smaller shops are
now carrying their largest
volume of advertising news in
The Times-Dispatch; and their
efforts in so doing is to im
press preparedness; to buy
now. while stocks are com
plete, and not hazard the ad
vantage of getting the choicest
tilings by waiting until the
Seventh hour.
XOTIv?Tin* TlniM-DUpnti'li minrnnfff* n miirktwl sn* Inj; on ncrt puri-lmae
made iu ^tlcluauu?l ?toren that nrtvectloc their luncst prices lu these page*.
<
President Tells Congress, in Joint Session,
He Has Given Final Warning to Germany
WASHINGTON. April J'J ?Hi his ad- |
dress before Congress. Iti joint session
to-day, the President said:
Gentlemen of the Congress:
A situation has arisen itt the foreign.
rcli'ii i" lis of i h(l count rv of which i
my plain duty to infoim you very ^
frankl>.
It will b>: recalled that In February, j
131 j. the imperial ClTtnan government,
announced its intention to treat thc^
watcrh surrounding Oreal Hritnin an?l.
Ireland as ? mbraeed within tli?; s<--at
of war, and to destroy all merchant
hhtps owned V.y it* en'mins thai might
he found within any part of that por
tion of the high seas. and that '.t
warned all vessels. "f neutwtl as well
as of b'lHgei em ownership. to keep
out of the waters had thus pre
scribed 01 < 1>? enter them at their
peril The government of tlw i nit'd
States earnestly protested It took the
position 'hat such a policy could not.
h* pursued without the practical cer
tainty of gross nnd palpable violations
of the law of nations, particularly if
submarine craft were to he employed
as its instrument*, inasmuch as tho;
rules prescribed by that law, rules i
founded upon principles of humanity,
and established for tho protection of
the lives of noucombatante at sea,
could not in the nature of the case he
observed by such vessels. It based it* |
protest on the ground that persons of ?
neutral nationality, and vessels of neu
tral ownership, would be exposed to
extreme and intolerable risks, and that
no right to clos*- any pari of the hitch
seas against their use or to expose
them to such risks could lawfully be (
asserted by any belligerent govern- ;
iner.t. The law of nations in these
matters, upon which the government
of the United States based its protect.
is not of recent origin or founded upon
merely arbitrary principles set up by
convention. It is based on the con-j
trary. upon manifest anil imperative j
principles of humanity, and has long
boen established .RiUUktjA approval juui,
hv the 'express assent of all civilized
nations.
CAItRIKS CUT ITS POMCV
DKSfMTK Oi n PBOTBST;
Notwithstanding the earnest protest;
of our government, the imperial Ger
man government at once proceeded to
i-arrv out the policy it had announced.
It expressed the hope that the dangers t
Involved, at any rate the danger to neu
tral vessels, would be reduced to a'
minimum by the instructions w hich it J
had issued to its submarine command
ers. and assured the government of
the United States that it would take
every possible precaution, both to re- :
spect the rights of neutrals and to safe
guard the lives of noncombatants.
What has actually happened in the i
year which has Hince elapsed has shown 1
that those hopes were, not justified, j
those assurances insusceptible of being!
fulfilled. '
In pursuance of the policy of suh-|
marine warfare against the comnicrcej
of its adversaries, thus announced and j
entered upon by the imperial German?
government in despite of the solemn
protest of this government, the com
manders of German undersea vessels
have attacked merchant ships with
greater and greater activity, not only
upon the high seas surrounding Great
T'.rltain and Ireland, but wherever they
could encounter them, in u way that j
has grown more and more ruthless. 1
more and more indiscriminate as the,
months have gone by, less and less ob-1
servant of restraints of any kind: and!
have delivered their attacks without i
compunction against vessels of everyi
nationality, and bound upon every sort
of errand. Vessels of neutral owner
ship. even vessels of neutral ownership i
bound from neutral port to neutral
port, have been destroyed along with
vessels of belligerent ownership, in '
constantly increasing numbers. Some- ?
times the merchantman attacked has
been warned and summoned t?? sur-<
render before being flred or. or tor
pedoed. sometimes passengers or crews'
have been vouchsafed the poor security i
of being allowed to take to the ship's!
boats before she was sent, to tho hot-i
torn. Hut again and again no warning,
has been given, no escape even to th< i
ship s boats allowed to those on board, j
What this government forsaw must
happen has happened. Tragedy has fol-i
lowed tragedy on tho seas in such
fashion, with .such attendant circum
stances. sis to make it grossly evident
that warfare of such a sort, if war
fare it be, cannot be carried on with
out the most palpable violation of thet
dictates alike of right and of humanity.j
Whatever the disposition and intention'
of the imperial German government it
has manifestly proved impossible fori
it to keep such methods of attack upon j
the commerce of its enemies within i
Monthly Report* Ordered.
WASHINGTON. April 19.?Telegraph,
telephone and cable companies iu the
United States with annual operating
revenues above $;>0.000. were ordered
to-day by the Interstate Commerce
Commission to make monthly reports
to the commission of revenues, ex
penses and capital changes
Baltimore Hauler V.seondon. _
J:i ,? round trl|?. Sin.. April 11.via. \OUts
UlVi-Ji: l.INK. iteturu limit April 2i>. i-'o
llfc-U^tul wulcr trip.
y
PHESIDENT W11. SON".
the bounds set by either the reason or
tno rrarf of mankind.
In February of the present year the
Impcria 1 German fiovcimn-Ht i'r.fojme.1
this government and the other neu
tral governments ..f the wot id tlmt it
had reason to believe that the gov
ernment of Ureal Britain hail armed
all merchant vessels of British owner
ship and ha.l given them secret orders
to attack any submarine of n1(. enemv
they might encounter upon the seas
and that the imperial Herman govern
ment felt Justified in the ci mi instances
in treating all armed merchantmen of
haliio+tuux nwn+tHiny ujjfumWM
sols of war. which it would i ave the
right to destroy without warning. The
a?" of nations has long recognized
the fight of merchantmen to carrv
arms for protection and to use them, to
ropel attack, though to use them, in
such circumstances, at their own risk
hut the imperial German government
claimed the right to set these under
standings aside in circumstances which
it deemed extraordinary. Even the
terms in which it announced its pur-1
Pose thus still further to relax the re-i
straints u ,,aU prftvlouc,y profej)-ei| , |
willingness and desire to pur upon the!
operation* of its submarines curried
the plain implication that ai it-asi vc?.
sels which were not armed would still
be exempt from destruction without'
warning-, and that personal safety!
would be accorded thelr passengers
and ctews; but even that limitation, if
t was ever practicable to observe it I
fn fac' constituted no check at -ill '
upon the destruction of ships ..f every!
Again and again the imperial tier
man government has g^en this gove-n.
ment its solemn assurances that at lea?t!
passenger ships would not he thus dealt I
with, and yet i, has again and again
permitted its undersea commanders to1
dtsiegard those assurances with entire!
Impunity. Great liners like the Lusl-I
tanla and the. Arabic and mere ferry
boats like the Sussex have been at-'
tacked without a moments warning 1
some times before they had even be
come aware that they were in ,he !
presence of an armed vessel of rhpl
enemy, and the jjVes of nr. ,1
?? non-comba
tant* passengers and crew, have been
fracritlced wholesale, in a manner which'
the government of lhe fnited states
cannot but regard as wanton and
without I he slightest color of jlls?. I
Heat ion. Xo limit of any kind has. in
nnin.t>PC" ,S7 l"C ?"'?*erJmln.ite
l?ur. ult and destruction of merchant-1
?m\, t. k"U5S and nationalities j
Ithin the waters, constantly extend -
ar?a" Whcp? those operations!
luxe been carried on; and the roll of;
Americans who have let their lives!
on ships thus attacked and destroyed
has grown month by montl, until ,hJ
<>"""ous toll has mounted into the'
hundreds. i
KXAlll'I.R Or I.VIICMAM'l'V
<n.' SrintA l||.\R H-UIK.IRR
one of the latest and most shocking
instances of this method of warfare
was that of the destruction of (he1
rench cross-ehannel steamer Sussex 1
It must stand forth, as sinking (\f
he steamer I.usitania did. as so singu-l
1 r > ? ragical and unjustifiable as to
constitute a truly terrible example of
Inhumanity of submarine warfare -?.s
tho conn,winders ?f German vessels I
ror twelve months been
conducting it. U tIli? inMfincc s
alone, .some explanation, some ,nsn.|
THAW GRANTED DIVORCE !
Itceuinmendntion' of ,,M?|f.r %
?o like Testimony Acecpteil
by Court.
rfTTSIU'KGlI. April 19.?Join. XV. \
Thomas, master appointed to take tes
timony in the. suit of Harry K. Thaw!
against his wife. Kvelyn Thaw, to-day
recommended to the court th:.i Thnv
granted a divor. c. ;,?d the
was ordered by the cuui't. 1
vuw;il by tii? Germati government, some
evidence of criminal mistake or 'illfui
<1 isobedivnce on ihe pui't of til e com?
mandcr of the vessel that fired the tor
pedo miuht he sought or entertained:
but unhappily it dors riot stand alone.
Kerr lit t wins make the eoiu'lUHioti in
evitable Muti it is only one instance,
even tlionv.li it ho one of the most
extreme and distressing instances, of
the spirit and method of warfare,
which th" imperial German government
has mistakenly adopted, and which,
from the first exposed that govern
ment to the reproach of thrusting all
neutral lights aside in pursuit of its
immediate objects.
The government of the United States
lias been very patient. At every stage
of this distressing *xperience of tra
gedy after tragedy. in which its own!
citizens were involved it has sought!
to be restrained from any extreme
course of action or of protest by a
thoughtful consideration of the extra
ordinary circumstance, of this unpre
cedented war, and actuated In all that
ii said or did by the sentiments of
genuine friendship which the people of
the United States have always enter
tained and continue to entertain to
wards the German nation. It has. of
course, ao epted the .successive expla
nations and assurances **f the imperial
German government as given in entire
sincerity and good faith, and has hoped,
?\ei. against hope, that it would be
possible for the German government
to so order and control the acts of
its naval commanders as to square its
poliex with the principles of humanity
as embodied ill the law of nations. It
has been willing to wait until the
significance of the facts became abso
lutely unmistakable and susceptible of
this one interpretation
tacts srscKPTHiM-:
OK MIT (INK INTBHIMIKTATMIN
That point has now unhappily been
readied. The Tacts are susceptible of
but one interpretation. The Imperial
l^?rtn?ai fgovNmirefttU
[put any limits or restraints upon Its
warfare against either freight or pas
senger ships. It lias, therefore, become
painfully evident that the position
which this government took at the
very outset is inevitable, namely, that
the use of submarines for the destruu-j
Hon of an enemy's commerce Is of
necessity, because of the very charac
ter of the vessels employed, and the
very methods of attack which their
employment, of course, involves, incom-]
patlble with the princu-. of humanity,
tlio long established and incontrovertl-!
hie rights of neutrals, and the sacred j
immunities of noi.combatants.
I have deemed it my duty, therefore,
to say to the imperial German govern
ment that if it Is still its purpose to
prosecute relentless and indiscriminate
warfare against vessels of commerce
by the use of submarines, notwith
standing the now demonstrated inipos-j
nihility of conducting that warfare in
accordance with what the government
of the United States must consider the
sacred an.l indisputable rules of inter- |
national law. and the universally recog- j
nized dictates of humanity, the govern
ment of the I'nited States is at last
forced to the conclusion that there is
but one course It can pursue?and that
unless the imperial German govern
ment should now immediately declare
and effect an abandonment of its pres
ent methods of warfare against pas- j
senger and freight-carrying vessels.)
this government can have no choice j
but to sever diplomatic relations with :
the government of the German empire
altogether.
AHH1VK.D AT OISCISIOX
WITH KKIiNKST IICGRBTj
This decision 1 have arrived at with j
the keenest regret: the possibility of;
the, action contemplated T am sure a 111
thoughtful Americans ivill look for-j
ward to with unaffected reluctance. !
Hut we cannot forget that we are in |
some sort ami by the force of clro.iim- j
stances, the respoiis??-? . ....smaii of
the rights of humanity, and that we j
cannot remain silent while those rights j
seetn in process of being swept utterly,
away in the maelstrom of this terrible
war. We ov? it to a due regard for
our own rights as a nation, to our
sense of duly as a representative of
the rights o neutrals the w :>i Id over,
and to a just conception of the rights
of mankind to take this sta'id now with
the utmost solemnly and firmness-. j
I have taken it. and taken it in the
confidence that It will 'reel with your
approval and support. All sober
minded men must unite in hoping that
he imperial German government, which
has in other circumstances stood as
the champion of all that we are now
contending for in the interest of hu
manity, may recognize the Justice of
our demands and met' tlieni in the
spirit in which they are made.
9'jnn.nnil l ire nt KlllcnM ( Ity.
HA I'Tl.MOIt K. April 19. ? l?'ire of un
known origin destroyed to-day the |
grain elevator of the iA. Gainbrlll
Manufacturing Company at Kllicott
City, together with la.Oort bushels of
wheat. Trie loss was estimated at
1'Jfto.OOO
Carolina Kasler K%ciir*lon.
luitivllhi: $1 .'.0 i!? rcn: Intro. S."> Winston?
Siikiii, Salisbury iiii?l 'SlHl^.nllic; $ ? ..A i li,ir
mite. $|u Ashes ill,* Mil A|>rll via
isUliTiliilO* 11WX". Kaiuiu Liuiil Aywl 2*.
ASKS NO ACTION,
BUT TELLS OF STEPS
LEADING TO CRISIS
Will Break Off Diplomatic Relations If Illegal
Submarine Campaign Is Continued
by Kaiser's Government.
NOTE AND ADDRESS FINAL, MARKING
END OF DIPLOMATIC EXCHANGES
Continuance of Long-Standing' Friendly Rela
tions, It Is Made Clear, Depends Alone Upon
Conduct of Berlin?Only Tense Silence and
Reflection of Gravity of His Words Greet
Statement Concerning Unavoidable Break
Unless Indiscriminate Warfare Is Stopped.
Representatives of Allied Countries I^ill Dip
lomatic Galleries of House.
WASHINGTON", April 10.?President Wilson s long-expected
final warning to Germany that tlie United States will break off
diplomatic relations unless she abandons her present methods
of submarine warfare, and immediately declares her intention to
do so. was delivered to-day in a note to Berlin, and was
announced by the President in an address to a joint session of
Congress. The President, demands nothing less than the
abandonment of submarine warfare against commerce.
Both the President's address and the American note declare
in unequivocal terms that, only by Germany acceding to the
demand can the breaking off of relations be prevented.
FIWSltfVSllC'TJttpelders that the next step depends solely
upofl.^Germany, and 'that three or four days constitute a
reasonable time for a reply. He is willing to discuss how
submarine warfare may be conducted within the limits of
international law and humanity after Germany abandons her
present methods.
Diplomatic history records but one instance as yet. where
a breaking of relations between two firsr-class powers has not
eventually brought war?that which now exists between.
Germany and Italy.
Congress received the President's declaration of his course
with mixed evidences of concern and approbation. Most of the
leaders, Democrat, and Republican, thought the President hardly
could do less, and some expressed the opinion that his action
would not lead to war.
REPmiJCAN LEADER MANX ONLY ONE
WHO OPENLY ATTACKS PRESIDENT
Ttepublican I.eader Mann alone, of the;
opposition leaders, openly attaclced the|
President for his stand. Ilo charac-|
terired ir as a political play.
President Wilson's words leave noi
opportunity for douhli; meaning. In;
his address to Congress he said:
"I have deemed it my duty to say!
to the imperial German Rovcrnment
that if it is still its purpose to prose- i
cute relentless ami Indiscriminate war-'
fare. . . . the government of the United ?
States is at last forced to the conclusion
that tliere Is but one course it can pur
sue, and that unless the imperial Ger
man povornnient should now. immedi
ately. declare and effect an abandon
ment of its present methods of war
fare against passenger and freight-;
carrying vessels, this government can
have no choice hut to sever diplomaticj
relations altogether."
Copies of the American note were!
sent to representatives here of neu-j
tral nations on the assumption that.,
they are as much interested as the'
United States in the protection of neu
tral rights. The document was not.
given to any of the belligerent diplo-i
mats, as the controversy is regarded
as being solely between the United I
.States and Germany.
Count von Hernstorff already has re-j
iterated to Secretary Uansing s'nat un-|
der no circumstances will Germany!
give up the submarine as a weapon of
submarine warfare, because, he con
tends, it is a retaliation for Great
Britain's food blockade. The ambas-i
sador has declared, however, that his
government will attempt to bring their
operations within the law of nations.!
This the United States is willing to
discuss after Germany has abandoned
her present methods?not before.
Di:n,AH.iTIO\ AIJAIVST
i'sk ?!?' sumiAm.vKs
Against that possibility stands the!
declaration in the American note that
the United States has considered from
the first that the employment of sub
marines for destruction of commerce Isi
by its very nature "utterly incompati
ble tvith the principles of humanity,]
the long established ami incontrovertl-1
hie rights of neutrals ami the sacred j
immunities of noncombatants."
Clearly the President's demand is
that the use of the. submarine should*
be restricted to operations against
warships Upon that rock the friendly
relations between the two coun'r'-s
may t>e rent.
The <-rlsis now je.Mdv?'> itself Into I
Uic v\a?uuji stage, Juuiio ivUicli cior-l
many will have opportunity to accede
to the American demands. Before sm
other week begins settlement of tho
long-standing issue either will be as
sured or Count von Bernstorff prob
ably will have his passports and Am
bassador Gerard will be leaving Berlin.
The President had guarded his plans*
with tho closest and most effective se
crecy until 10 o'clock this morning,
when he disclosed them at a conference
with Chairman Stone and Senator
l.odgc. tho ranking Republican of tho
Foreign Relations Committee, and
Chairman Flood and Representative
Cooper, ranking Republican of tho
Foreign Affairs f'ommitteo of tho
Mouse. Me outlined to them what ho
had said In the note dispatched to Ber
lin last night and what he purposed
to sa> 10 Congress to-day.
When the President had finished
reading he looked up and, seeing Sen
ator Stone's grave face, said:
"You look as Bad as I feel."
The chairman's response was to in
quire of tlie President, if he had told
them all he had to say. The confer
once thus ended.
\\ OH I) or Pl.AX SIMtKADS
m U Ki/\ tiiiioi i.ii not si:
The word of the President's plan
spread quickly through Congress, and
when he took bis place at the clerk's
desk in the hall of the House promptly
at I o'clock ho was confronted by a
committee of Brave Senators and Rep
resentatives. who greeted him with ap
plause and later hunc intently upon
every word he uttered.
Tije President asked nothing of Con
gress; he came only to inform it of
his action. Me did it in fifteen minutes,
and Congress went back to work
solemnly impressed with the situation
which confronts ihe country. Tho
scene had been dramatically human,
lite President's demeanor reflected his
state of mind, and an impartial ob
server would readily say the demeanor
of Congress as a whole reflected its
sympathy.
The first actually crucial moment to
ward which Ihe relations or' the United
States and Germany had steadily been
drifting n?:arl\ a year had come and
passed, and tho President had returned
to tiie Whito Mouse to await the next
one. America counts the hours whllo
Herltn decides.
iii:riii:si:\TtTMK? op m.i.ik*
I I 1.1. OII'MMI \TI< ?. XI.I.CUIKV
Itepi ese.ut:iti\es of th? allied <?ur,
tries tilled the diplon. ?t Kullerifi ??(
;he Mouse.
.Women ruled in the public galleries*
