THE (VEAltfCJ FORECAST.
Partly cPHyJ
IT SHINES FOP ALL
and to-morrow;
e.
Highest
6o; lowest, 41.
Detailed wl
no repot ts on pa-? I
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 233.
44-
NEW YORK,
THURSDAY, APRIL
s
20, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by th Sun Printing and Publithing A$tociaHon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
WILSON TELLS BERLIN U BOAT WAR MUST END AT ONCE;
OTHERWISE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WILL BE BROKEN OFF
WILSON'S U BOA T COURSE
DISCUSSED IN CONGRESS
Members See No Reason for Giving Them the Data
After President Has Acted Republicans in
House Lead Critics.
WtniisuTo.N. Aiull 1!. Comment In
the .n.itc in the Piesitlcnt's nddies
i guarded, but for the most tmrl was
of approv.il collie Senator expressed
the opinion Unit the Piesldcnt should
hate coninitinlratcd with Congress be
fore acting If lie- believed it wits nee
.ary lo advise Congress at nil.
Senator Vardantan, Democrat, of Mite
tintippi, look ;i wilous view of the situ
ition. Ilf mIiI
'1 ran read thin note in but one w .
The Gorman Government must at once
discontinue Its subinailne warfare and
iut Its submarines In the dry dock or
mil sever diplomatic i elation, and
that means war. If she ields it means
that slm gives up the war. I do not
believe ,ve have any right to make the
demand."
Senator O Gorman asked lo be ex
cused fiom commenting. It ua noted
that Mr. O'Gortnati was one of tho
Democratic Scnatnis who dltl not break
li.to applause when the President
inched the climax of hlf address.
Theie was a tlood of telegrams from
German Americans ami their sympathlz
!. to-day tiigliig Senator!! to do every
tmnc possible to present war. Most of
these came from Ohio.
What seiinlnrt, n.
Koliotung me some xjire.-.-doii' of
opinion on tile address liy Sei.a'uie.
William Allien Smith, llepubllcan, of
HirtilK.ui.
"We air face 0 fa. e at Lust with the
Jn?eruii, far reaching and trying sit
uatl"ii. much of which could have been
melded hail the IVsldcnt been more re
o'ute ami putimsvful a jear asn. In
my opinion much of the difficulty iioa
surround. ng mir diplomatic telatlorn Is
iii;e to the folly and lack of foresight
tr.own by the Administration In the con
duit of its lorelgn ('.flairs.
"I d. i not wish by any word of mine
to add to these perplexities. f, how
'he l'rrtdilent should determine to
iir;ik off diplomatic intercourse with
iern.i'v he must be prep. tied for the
rext step, wiih h. of comse, would ine.ui
a- .mil -t-ito-nnrf )yve -the American
irMile i ip'iI jn.itlfy such n ionise on
:lif .".hi .i' n.is i ioei nineiit. In my
whim Congress should be ery blow to
take -ueii ,i step."
"' urtK. Itepubllcan. Kanwu
' I tnlnk the message will be generally
appiottd b t lit- people at large, but
mi-re is M.nie doubt mm to the necessity
ol presenting the matter to Congress
a er Hie Pi.tddcnt lias acted."
Smator liullingcr. Itepubllcan leader:
"t'imicre.ti will ko eiy slow in a
mallei like this winch may involve ub
In h horrible wai I perhaps should not
ri'irise the President's action, but I be
lieve It would have been less alarming
'o tlie eountiy if lie had sent u written
iw:ik.' to om.-ies.-. He lia said in
tffn-t tli.it we don't like Ueriuuny'K nub
irarine method)- and we would like to
-noA wh.i coin, to do about It,
but 1 ilnirt believe there lll be war."
Ilrlen lo the Stand.
Senator Chelan, I'cmocrat. of Call
f rnia
"Tlie froident ban bren ilrlen to
ur lln.i .stand. It wast not voluntarily
assiimeil. Tlie world and the country
iru-t re. oKnl.e that then: la cueli a thliiK
as neutral rlKhts."
Senator Mai line. Democrat, of New
Jerey ,
"The tnejiauo was Just about what we
xpeled mid I approve It. I think It
means a i-eerauii' of diplomatic rela
tlMis but not neeet-Mirlly war"
R"i)alor I'omerene, pernocrat, Ohio:
"We mnt oitber approve of thin mes
se. recrtttabln thoiiKh it lt that cii
eumstanees have made It necessary, or
e mut lie able lo state how many
ror mun.il cMf.B may be torpedoed
without warning mid state bow many
irere Auierlean Uses can be lost without
takir-K action."
Senator Weeks, Itepuhllcait, of Massa
i'nuiwtl!i: "1 am not inclined to think I would
h.ie gone as far ns the President did
m my condemnation of submarine war
fare It would not seem to make any
itiffetence to me whetlirr a merchant
'up of an enemy Is destroyed by u sun
'r by a loip.-dn. I think the time has
f me uiut the l'lesidenl should lake a
lfltli opinion on llio Keneral iiuestlon
"f the kind of submarine warfare being
Ragnl "
niior Lew is of Illinois. Keniocrat:
i .ii-sinne the I'lihldeiit wilt send to
re fcii.ttn at the time ha will ask for
'le pmeil he seeks tlio evidence on
nlcli lie Is acting, from which tlie Men
Jte il be utile to JuiIko If the facts
!uUf (he remedy proposed."
I line to lli I hIiii.
SeiMnir stone, I icmocral, of .Mis-
..url .
'Th ,- a good lime for eveobody
lu (i-p his head ami control of tho
n.'fel '
.-'-iiii.. i I'limmiiis of Iowa, a radical
h'li-.iW .in 'i evidential candidate:
Th I'leslilent'N speecli evidently
;'i i r., ., Ver. gia Mltiiation. Tluit
' ,n are to s'ly."
'fi'H.,1 .lames. Democrat, of Ken-u-
k
t "T'l. I'm anient did I lip ohl tlilns
"iiKi ih, id. leines It up lo Oer
mnuv i.. avoid a bleak by observing her
11 'la- itions."
"flu -oi lluslliiK, Democrat, of VVIs
' hum n
"U s ,nir iloveiiimeni thai has made
'I'll" IHnling an'! i cached tills determlua.
"r,n Ihii.-fore It should lin backed
"f hv i ninny and by Congress."
'-Jr ,MeiH of Molilalia, Demo.
ciai
Tli ,niit,.Hs has my iiiiiiialifled ap
Movil ' here wim nolhlng else for the
rri'ldi 1 1 n, ,,i,"
t-'fn.ii r s'leilliig of North Dakota,
1 r'nn f I!. publican .
1 'a utily approve of the President's
'tuinl Thi) limes and circuniKlanceH
'J a Hiiuig oppoblllon,"
S'linor Suiliciiand of Utah, Itepub
hean The imnidge has my approval, n(
thouh J do not at present sen the ne
'lty of it i w conferring with Congrrsn
Me-- of the fuel thot he simply not!-
lies them of an accomplished fact and
of the further fact that the whole matter
up to the present Involved purely exclu
sive functions.
"I do not see how amy conclusion
other than that lo which the President
has come In possible if our horror and
dignity are to be preserved. At the
saiire time 1 wish the President had laid
lils principal emphasis upon the viola
tions of American rights, with which we
ale Immediately concerned, rather than
t hae Indulged In comment upon the
lights of humanity in general."
Only Proper Attitude.
Senator Polndcxtor of Washington,
Republican :
"I think the President's attitude I
the only proper and legitimate one for
the United Htnte to take. Of course
there Is no possibility of any bloody
war between the fnlted State und Ger
many under present circumstances or
circumstances In the future. The situ
ation of Germany with relation to her
huropean neighbor la such that she
cannot make war on us. and there Is no
occasion for us to carry on a war in
Kuropc.
"Furthermore, a war with Germany
In unnecessary, as there are many other
ways in which the position taken bv
the President can be enforced, If some
of thete imaus had been used In the
Is'Kliinliig of our coutitrj's difficulties
with Germany a year ago the present
unfortunate Issue would probably have
lieen nvolded."
Senator Norrls, Itepubllcan, of Ne
braska :
"Coming after the President had acted,
the message seems to me to have been
wholly unnecessary. I doubt If the ac
tion taken by him was necessary."
Senator Lodge, Republican, of Mas
sachusetts :
"I think the President could not pos
flbly have done less under the circum
stances. He has made a very clear
statement of the course of Germany's
act and policies in submarine warfare
and of the rights of ships earning neu
trals and non-combatants."
Senator Chamberlain, Democrat, of
Oregon :
"I do not think that this message
means war."
Senator Sherman. Itepubllcan, of
.Illinois:
"The severance of diplomatic relations
rests with the Uxecutlve-.Dtparlment of
the Government If such course brings
us to the brink of war It Is for Congress
to sustain or refuse to sustain the action
of (he Wxecuthe.
"I should vote against a declaiation
of war bused on t ensoul contained in
the President's addrcus to Congress to
day. I am In accord with the President
so far as his claims as to what Inter
national law should be, but It Is not our
duty to propose rules for belligerents."
Senator Wadsworlh, Itepubllcan, of
New York ;
"I think that the President was fully
Justllled In the course he took."
Senator Taggart, Democrat, of In
diana :
"It is a good time for Congress and
the general public to sit tight and await
developments."
' BITTER WORDS IN HOUSE.
' Republican Criticise Wilson Few
tpprnte I' Boa I Conrae. j
WAsniNiiTON, April lS.llltter crltl-i
J (ism of tlie Pr-v-ident on the Itepubllcan I
lido was lieaul In the Jlousc to-day
after the President had delivered his ad
uress on the subiiuriiip Issue. '
I Scatteied comment Indicated that tlie
majority if not all the Itepubllcan mem
hers were far Horn approving the couise
he has taken. It was also said that even
tonic Democrats took the tame view. The
greater number of the majority memlier.s,
if they did not openly ajiprove what hao
been done, chose to say nothing at all I
on the givund that the occasion was far
too serious to call for any expression of
cplnlou.
The Itepubllcan members for the must
pait took the view that the ultimatum to
Germany should have been sent months
ago if it were to be sent at till and that
Hk- Mexican problem, from the Presi
dent's e.picMM urHjse to assert the
principles of humanity, was more seri
ous than any dlffeience of opinion that
might have lecently arisen with Ger
many over tho activities of submarines.
Sonic minority menibeis even went
further. They accused tho President of
having precipitated the submarine crisis
for jndlllcui effect and of having allowed
I. Is sympathies for the allied Powers to
outrun his Judgment.
Will Stand by Prealdrnl.
I'pun one point, biiueier, all were
agreed, llepulilleans an well us'llrnin
train declared emphatically that If the
dlagreenienl resulted In a declaration of
war there would be no disagreement
among member of the llnue no matter
what their political beliefs might be,
Iteprenuntativc Mann, the minority
Under, said that the Piesldent'H message
was given mainly for political effect.
"In tho Aim place," he said, "I don't
see any reason for the President to have
come to Congt ess to rend this message.
It would have been Just as well to have,
given his statement to the papers. In
which we could have lead it.
"When the McLemote lesolutlon was
up In the IIoumj I said that the Pieal
dent wanted to Involve us In war with
Germany. Ills atHtudc has not been
neutral in any respict. I thought this
eountiy should be neutral. Ills messago
to-day shows he exjicctH If he can to
force war with Germany.
"S liatn miiiie ,'uiiip!nlr,ts agalr.zt
Germany, though the President exag
gerated them this morning. We have
some romplilhtH against Great llrltaln,
but the President does not care about
that. Where Germany has Injured one
ship catrylng American commerce ng
land has seized a doxen. The truth is
the President is a Scotch Presbyterian
and he hales 'the Dutch." "
ItcpresenUitlvn Flood, chairman of the
I'orclgn Relations fVminlttee, said;
"I do not think the President could
have been any inoro moderate or con
servative under the clrcumstanceii con.
nectnd with the controveisy than he was
Continued on Second rape.
flRKAT BKAK NPHINU WATKR.
Me. the cut of six glaw stepper kettlu.
Ail).
TEXT OF THE
WASHINGTON, April 19. Following is the full text of the
out by the State Department to-day:
"Secretary of State to Ambassador Gerard :
"You are instructed to deliver to the Secretary of
Foreign Affairs a communication reading as follows:
"I did not fail to transmit immediately, by telegraph, to
my Government, your Excellency's note of the tenth instant
in regard to certain attacks by German submarines, and par
ticularly in regard to the disastrous explosion which on March
24 last wrecked the French steamship Sussex in the English
Channel. I have now the honor to deliver, under instructions
from my Government, the following reply to your Excellency :
"Information now in the possession of the Government
of the United States fully establishes the facts in the case of
the Sussex, and the inferences which my Government has
drawn from that information it regards as confirmed by the
circumstances set forth in your Excellency's note of the tenth
instant.
Cites Responsibility in Sussex Case.
"On the 24th of March, 1916, at about 2 :3U o'clock in the
afternoon, the unarmed steamer Sussex, wjth 825 or more
passengers on board, among whom were a number of Ameri
can citizens, was torpedoed while crossing from Folkestone to
Dieppe. The Sussex had never been armed; was a vessel
known to be used habitually only for the conveyance of pas
sengers across the English Channel; and was not following
the route taken by troop ships or supply ships. About eighty
of her passengers, non-combatants of all ages and sexes, in
cluding citizens of the United States, were killed or injured.
"A careful, detailed and scrupulously impartial investi
gation by naval and military officers of the United States has
conclusively established the fact that the Sussex was tor
pedoed without warning or summons to surrender and that
the torpedo by which she was struck was of German manu
facture. In the view of the Government of the United States
these facts from the first made the conclusion that the tor
pedo was fired by a German submarine unavoidable. It now
considers that conclusion substantiated by the statements of
your Excellency's note. A full statement of the facts upon
which the Government of the United States has based its
conclusion is enclosed.
"The Government of tlie United States, after having
given consideration to the note of the Imperial Government
of the 10th of April, regrets to state that the impression made
upon it by the statements, and proposals contained in that
note is that the Imperial Government has failed to appreciate
the gravity of the situation which has resulted, not alone
from-the- al(MWF6trthe Sussex, but from the whole method
and character of submarine warfare as disclosed by the un
restrained practice of the commanders of German undersea
craft during the past twelve months and more in the indis
criminate destruction of merchant vessels of all sorts, na
tionalities, and destinations.
"If the sinking of tlie Sussex had been an isolated case
the Government of the United States might find it possible
to hope that the officer who was responsible for that act had
wilfully violated his orders, or had been criminally negligent
in taking none of the precautions they prescribe, and that the
ends of justice might be satisfied by imposing upon him an
adequate punishment, coupled with a formal disavowal of
the act and payment of a suitable indemnity by the Imperial
Government.
Terrible Example of Inhumanity.
"But. though the attack upon the Sussex was manifestly
indefensible and caused a loss of life so tragical as to make it
stand forth as one of the most terrible examples of the in
humanity of submarine warfare as the commanders of Ger
man vessels are conducting it, it unhappily does not stand
alone.
"On the contrary, the Government of the United States
is forced by recent events to conclude that it is only one in
stance, even though one of the most extreme and most dis
tressing instances, of the deliberate method and spirit of
indiscriminate destruction of merchant vessels of all sorts,
nationalities, and destinations which have become more and
more unmistakable as the activity of German undersea ves
sels of war has in recent months been quickened and extended.
"Tho Imperial Government will recall that when, in
February, 1915, it announced its intention of treating the
waters surrounding Great Britain and Ireland as embraced
within the seat of war, and of destroying all merchant ships
owned by its enemies that might be found within that zone of
danger, and warned all vessels, neutral as well as belligerent,
to keep out of the waters thus prescribed, or to enter them at
their peril, the Government of the United States earnestly
protested.
"It took the position that such a policy could not be pur
sued without constant gross and palpable violations of the
accepted law of nations, particularly if submarine craft were
to be employed as its instruments; inasmuch as the rules
prescribed by that law, rules founded on the principles of
humanity and established for the protection of the lives of
non-combatants at sea, could not in the nature of the case be
observed by such vessels. It based its protest on the ground
that persons of neutral nationality and vessels of neutral
ownership would be exposed to extreme and intolerable risks ;
and that no right to close any part of the high seas could law
fully be asserted by the Imperial Government in the circum
stances then existing.
Based on Humanity's Laws.
"The law of nations in these matters, upon which the
Government of the United States based that protest, is not
of recent origin, nor founded upon merely arbitrary princi
ples set up by convention. It is based, on the contrary, upon
manifest, principles of humanity, and has long been estab
lished with the approval and by the express assent of all
civilized nations.
"The Imperial Government, notwithstanding, persisted
in carrying out the policy announced, expressing the hope
that the dangers involved, at any rate to neutral vessels,
would be reduced to a minimum by the instructions which it
had issued to the commanders of Its submarines, and assur
ing the Government of the United States that it would take
every possible precaution'' both to respect the rights of neu
trals and to safeguard the lives of non-combatants.
"In pursuance of this policy of submarine warfare
against the commerce of its adversaries, thus announced
and thus entered upon in despite of the solemn protest of the
U. S. GOVERNMENT'S NOTE
note of the United States Government to Germany as given
Government of the United States, the commanders of the
Imperial Government's undersea vessels have carried on
practices of such ruthless destruction which have made it
more and more evident as the months have gone by that the
Imperial Government has found it impracticable to put any
such restraints upon them as it had hoped, and promised to
put.
"Again and again the Imperial Government has given
its solemn assurances to the Government of the United States
that at least passenger ships would not be thus dealt with,
and yet it has repeatedly permitted its undersea commanders
to disregard those assurances with entire impunity.
Recklessly Ignored Warning.
"As recently as February last it gave notice that it would
regard all armed merchantmen -owned by its enemies as part
of the armed naval forces of its adversaries, and deal with
them as with men of war, thus, at least by implication, pledg
ing itself to give warning to vessels which were not armed,
and to accord security of life to their passengers and crews ;
but even this limitation their submarine commanders have
recklessly ignored. ,
"Vessels of neutral ownership, even vessels of neutral
ownership bound from neutral port to neutral port, have
been destroyed along with vessels of belligerent ownership
in constantly increasing numbers. Sometimes the merchant
men attacked have been warned, and summoned to surrender
before being fired on or torpedoed; sometimes their passen
gers and crews have been vouchsafed the poor security of
being allowed to take to the ship's boats before the ship was
sent to the bottom. But again and again no warning has
been given, no escape even to the ship's boats allowed to those
on board.
"Great liners like the Lusitania and Arabic and mere
passenger boats like the Sussex have been attacked without
a moment's warning, often before they have even become
aware that they were in the presence of an armed ship of the
enemy, and the lives of non-combatants, passengers, and
crew have been destroyed wholesale, and in a manner which
the Government of the United States cannot but regard as
wanton and without the slightest color of justification.
American Death Toll in Hundreds.-
"No limit of any kind has in fact been set to their in
discriminate pursuit and destruction of merchantmen of all
kinds and nationalities within the waters which the Im
perial Government has chosen to designate as lying within
the seat of war. The roll of. Americans who have lost their
lives upon ships thuB attacked and destroyed has grown
month by month until the ominous toll has mounted into the
hundreds.
"The Government of the United States has been very
patient. At every stage of this distressing experience of
tragedy after tragedy it has sought to be governed by the
most thoughtful consideration of the extraordinary circum
stances of an unprecedented war and to be guided by senti
ments of very genuine friendship for the people and Gov
ernment of Germany. It has accepted the successive ex
planations and assurances of the Imperial Government as
of course given in entire sincerity and good faith, and has
hoped, even against hope, that it would prove to be possible
for the Imperial Government so to order and control the
acts of its naval commanders as to square its policy with
the recognized principles of humanity as embodied in the
law of nations. It has made every allowance for unprece
dented conditions, and has been willing to wait until the
facts became unmistakable, and were susceptible of only
one interpretation.
"It now owes it to a just regard for its own rights to
say to the Imperial Government that that time has come. It
has become painfully evident to it that the position which it
took at the very outset is inevitable, namely, the use of sub
marines for destruction of an enemy's commerce is, of neces
sity, because of the very character of the vessels employed
and tho very methods of attack which their employment of
course involves, utterly incompatible with the principles of
humanity, the long established and incontrovertible rights of
neutrals, and the sacred immunities of non-combatants.
Final Warning to Germany.
"If it is still the purpose of the Imperial Government to
prosecute relentless and indiscriminate warfare against ves
sels of commerce by the use of submarines without regard to
what the Government of the United States must consider the
sacred and indisputable rules of international law, and the
universally recognized dictates of humanity, the Government
of the United States is at last forced to the conclusion that
there is but one course it can pursue.
"Unless the Imperial Government should now imme
diately declare and effect an abandonment of its present
methods of submarine warfare against passenger and
freight carrying vessels, the Government of the United
States can have no choice but to sever diplomatic rela
tions with the German Empire altogether. This action the
Government of the United States contemplates with the
greatest reluctance, but feels constrained to take in behalf
of humanity and the rights of neutral nations.
"LANSING."
,,otecludedTarllWl ",alemHm f fac,s 0,1 lh 'SU8W accompanying ,,e
"Sussex regularly emploed In Channel passenger service, same as tn,
earN: left Folkestone for Dieppe 1 :;5 P. M., March 24; 32S passengers 53
new; 25 American cltlxena aboard: many women and children; carr'ed ,
armament : never employed as troop ship: did not follow troop ship route
weather clear, sea smooth. ' "' roule-
. "Wl"n, t,?lr!r'" '"," Jronl Oungenoss captain saw wake of torpedo tor
liedo sttuck hull, exploded, destroyed forward pait vessel, kilted T injur.,
e ghty persons No other Vermel In sight. AllldavlU of Samuel I emis, T. Vv
t ulbeilson, J..im II. Heil, UniUd bluff correspondent, and other nieri
can passengers. ner amen-
"Approach of torpedo seen by Samuel V. Hemls. Henry 8. Beer and Uer
truda Warren, Americans, according to affidavits, Lieut. Smith L H N? .ni
.Major Igan, U. 8. A., examined hull, found fifteen pleceH meta'l marked same
as German markings on other torpedoea; hull howed exterior exp osloii san e
ottlcers assert. ' "
"Facts show- there can be no reasonable doubt but that the Sussex was tor
pedoed, and that the torpedo was of German manufacture. An no veHsel
seen by any person on the Sussex, the conclusion la Irresistible thut the torpedo
was launched without warning from a Mjbmarlne which was submerged at the
time of the attack and remained beneatn the surface after the exoloMon
"This rnnclUHlon I. aubstantlated by statements of Imperial Government's
note of April 10, 1916, reporting a German submarine torpedoed a steamer -actly
in the course taken by the Sussex. iuer e-
"An no vessel la reported to have been torpedoed without warning by a sub
merged submarine other than the Buw.x, It la beyond question that that vessel
was torpedoed by thy submarine whose commander' report la relied upon In
ttte note of April 10,
TO GERMANY
Ultimatum, Charging Breach of Faith and De
manding "Immediate" Cessation of Sub
marine Campaign Against All Merchant
Vessels, Passenger and Freight, Is
Sent as President Addresses .
Congress.
BREAK PREDICTED WITHIN A WEEK;
ENVOYS PREPARING TO LEAVE
Germans Said to Resent Attitude of U. S., and Unwilling
to Accede Unless Britain Modifies Blockade Gov
ernment's Hands Will Be Upheld, Is Con
sensus of Congressmen.
W.isiii.MiTux, Apt II 19. PrenMent
Wilson has served notice on Germany
that It must chon.se and act Immedi
atelybetween abandonment, of Its
present methods of submarine warfare
and severance of diplomatic relations
with the L'nlted States.
The President addrctweU Congress In
jclnt session to-day and informed that
."Tjody of the action he hail taken. 1
The note to Germany carrying the
final word of this Government had
J been despatched to llerlln hours before
the President too,i Congress Into his
confidence. I. ftas made public late in
the afternoon.
It contains a scathing Kent nil indict- j
mcnt of Germany' submarine polld-, p
accompanied by the assertion that the!
United State. lus now reached the j
point where It must hold that sub- j
marine warfare against commerce ves-'
seb Is Incompatible with the rights of I
neutrals and non-combatants and the i
principles of humanity.
Wilson's Final Demand. 1
The demand for the end of the U
boat warfare against merchant ships
In unequivocal. All other features of
the note are regarded as of minor Im
portance In comparison, fr It Is on
thi that tho German Government
must act. And upon Germany's action
will depend the Immediate seriousness
of the situation.
President Wilson is understood to
uiiun by this demand that Germany
must give up lis submarine campaign
ajrilnst merchant shipping and com
merce carrying vessels altogether.
Hut officials admit that the actual de
mand made upon Germany Is so worded
as to leave this important point open ,
to two construction!..
One Is that Get many must abandon
Its submarlno campaign against mer
chantmen altogether, the other that
Germany must abandon Its "present
method of submarine warfare" in
favor of other methods of submarine
warfare against mesvhautmen which
will satisfy the President. I
I
l.ee n Wif Open,
German diplomats hern at once
Mized upon the hitter construction, and
It is regarded as certain that the
1 'resident's demand will 1h &u Inter
preted In Herlln. It leaves Germany
uh opportunity to rnply that the Im
perial Government will endeavor to
conform to this demand by a revision
1 of the rules now governing the warn
ing of passenger ships anf merchant-
men anil by agreeing ader)tiately to
provide for the safety of the crews.
I There are Indications that Germany
i might agree to do thfc.. Count von
I Hrrnstorff has an engagement with
Secretary of sute Lansing to-morrow
i and proUibiy will make a Dual effort to
avert n diplomatic break by reopening
I negotiations alonu these lines. Otll
I clals here said this afternoon that ne
gotlatlons inlsht be reopened provided
jGerminy Immediately declared and ef
1 fectrd an abandonment of its sub
marine warfare before these ncgotla
, turns were undertaken,
In other words, If Germany will
agree to hold Its submarine campaign
In alieyniico while it Is negotiating with
the l'nlted States there would be no
disposition upon the part of this Gov
eminent to press nutters unduly. Hut
i it wiw made clear that an immediate
cession of Germany'.-! submarine cam
paign was the only contingency on
which the matter could be reopened.
There Is grave doubt here whether the
Imperial Government will agree to thlw,
and, refusing, a break Is conntderod al
most Inevitable.
Mny lie MiilnhlliiR Point.
The word "Immediately"' in the
President's demand is likely to be fhe
outstanding feature so far an Ger
many Is concerned. Count von Ilern-
( storff has not hail time tn learn olll
clally his Governineiit'N views, but he
understand prettv well what Merlin's
attitude will be. It Is understood he
despairs of any Immediate ces.slnn of
the submarine camiMign unless Great
Britain In the mouiiUim relaxes the
rigors of the blockude,
Other features which detract from
liny prospects nf amicable and Imme
diate adjustment are pointed out by
i Germ in diplomats. German feeling, 't
la explained, Is just now very much
iirnusisl against any action taken here
iiRiilnMt Von Igel, dipt von I'apen's
j former Hccretnry. Ills arrest Is char-
1 acterlred throughout Germany as tia
grant violation of German rlglitv and
' an lnvnlon nf German Hovorelgnty.
I The President's note could therefore
not have como at n moro inopportune
time, according lo German officials.
The temper of the people of Germany,
.1
U l.s predicted, will pr.utually liwlst
that tho Imperial Government flatly
refuse consideration of President Wil
son'ii demands.
Although tho note is regarded by
German otllclals lier as moderate iu
tone and fulilllliig the requirements or
diplomatic usage, there is strong re
htntmcnt over the Implied Imputations
of Germany' good fultli In keeping her
pledges, and stteAs is laid on certain
Kpecltlc HiatementH In the President
address to Congress. Tlie fact that the.
President seemed to lay the blame at
the door of the siibinailni- commanders
themselves dues not eliminate the sling
of the accusation?, according to Ger
man officials in Washington,
"re Ureal. Ine. ItHlile.
Tlie consensus of- opinion here In
Congressional, official and liiloiivitic
circles Is that a iin-ak with Germany
is inevitable. Tlie President himself
is lint hopeful. Secri-tuiy Lansing
likewise sees little hope. Count von
Hertistorir clearly showed deep con
cern to-day. It Is learned that several
mcmliers of tr. German Lmbay stall
arc already making tentative arrange,
ments to leave for Germany.
The general feeling is that the break
will eonie within a week, islbly
sooner. It Is known that Secretary
Lunnlng expects to hear from Ambas
sador Gerard within two or three day,
Informing him of Germany's reply to
the demand for "lniinedlai.i action." If
the llerlln Governimnt delays tlie icplv
more than a few .lays an linperativfi
demand for an am,wer is likely to be
sent to Iterlin, at cording to State U?
partment official."
Willie l'retldent Wilson's address in
the main wa.s favorably received by
Congress there was bitter comment
by honi.. Republicans and dissatisfac
tion ' some iJeinocrats The Presi
dent was hnishly criticised by some be
cause he scut his note tn Germ. my be
fore he had taken Cngr,-., mt,', ),I.h
conlldence Tho,. Congressmen say
the President promised to take no de'.
c!.-lve action without Informing- Con
gress, and that he f.iibsl to lav the
nutter ls fore the legislative bndv" until
it was too late for i'onxrvt to net
"ill Stnml I,, I'reaidcnt.
Kepuhllcan Sen.itois and Itepre
sentatlves criticised the President for
having delayed deel.ive action on the
t-iibmarlne i.suc until It has now
reached a .stage where reined v Is prac
tically impossible. Thev believe that
If the President had taken a deter
mined stand ...irll.r tlie whole n-siie
might have been settled and u crisis
averted. Kepre.-ontatlvi, Mann, the
Kepuhllcan leader In the House, wo
particularly bitter, charging the Prc-i-dent
with playing politics
But desplt.. til's criticism there is
every indication that tlie President will
have the solid backing of C.ngies.s if
the situation liecomc more grave
liven those Hepuhllcans win. were
criticising the President to.dav ate
expected to fall in line when the'ques.
Hon of the honor of the nation is in
volveil. They insist however. Ilia,
cr.nerete problems iitTectimr American
lives and American lights rather than
nhstract problems iimcernlis hu
manity will U- Hi,, issue If it Dually
comes before Congies?
The l.nnltiiulii .(,.,
Comparisons ume being ,n,, ,,,.,iight
of the dllferejit opinion n,.. President
lias expre..-e, on the possibility of con
ducting submarine operations within tlie
law To-day be docl.iied that ....pel lence
had shown that submarine waif.u
against coiuineru- is utteily Incompatl
hie Willi the laws of hillimnil
This is substantially the attitude taken
by the President n his Mist Lii-uanu
note when he s.i.d
"Tile Govei iiinetn nf ii. mted
States theiefnie desires to , the attui.
Hon of the iinp.-ri.tl German Government
with the utmost e.iiii,.htn.-s to the flirt
that the objection to their present
method nf attack against the trade of
their enemies lies in the ptn,-i-.n ni.
possibility of en-p!nlng submarines II.
the destruction nf commerce without dis
regarding those rules of fairness, rcasot,
Justice and humanity whleli all modern
opinion legaids iu, iim.iei.tuvi Mam
festly submarines cannot lie m.,.,1 against
meichantnieii, as the last le weeks
have shown, without an ItieviinbUi viuhi
lion of many sacred principles f jus
tice and huniaiilt.t "
The second Nole,
III his second Lusitania nolo dated
July 21, 1915, the Piesldeiit, however
said :
"The events of the past two months
have clearly.lndlcaleil that It Is prv-slht.
and practicable to conduct such sub.
marine operations as have characterized
the activity of the imperial German
navy within tlie so-. alltd war cn,i In
substantial accord with tin, accepted
principles of legulaled warfare"
When these statements were called to
the attention of a prominent official of
the Administration to-day hn i-ald:
"Tho President tlrst thuught that sub
marine warfare was absolutely Incom
patible with the rights of humanity, but
later believed submarine warfare could
4
.. .k'-H f J.iii
jjjj
