WEATHBR
?Y TO l? \V AND TO
aaitiY ? I-,,;
unllROW: R1S1M! TKMPKRATURE]
IIODERATE \ iRlABI E WIND&
>v rl oa
Nmtymk
2^1
alrtbtttie
CIRGULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid, Non-Rcturnablo
FlVaTl fo Last ?the Truth: News-Editoriah-Advertisement*
V?. lAWI.-No. 25,358.
[(opyrlght 191 fi?
Thr Trllmne A-a'tv]
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916.
C%\ P t T\T In *'" *rtr*- ' "'? v*a**rk- .?*r?4*>r cn?
I'.al. I. I,.l 1 ?,?! H.lxikrn. l.la.wh.re Two Cent*.
END ILLEGAL SUBMARINE WAR
OR BREAK, WILSON TELLS BERLIN
"Unless the Imperial German Government should now immediately declare and effect an abandonment of
its present methods of warfare against passenger and freight carrying vessels, this Government can
have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations with the Government ofthe German Empire altogether."
CONGRESS STANDS BACK
OF PRESIDENT'S DEMAND
Some Crilicise Delay,
but Only Few Op
posc Stand.
MANN CALLS HIM
flATER OF DUTCH'
Demantl 011 Berlin Not l:x
pectcd io Prccipltate
Hostilities.
-?
Wai . 1 .pril 19.
? Wilson in the
.
?
?
: that it
twk i ? ng the
a IS] i ? thc,
\ : much <H ?
?ng a :
? ... .>
e hy
ican
Floor Lata '.???? R. lann, of j
Chichc
rted thi r-r -
?ian.
tch."
?
ed repret
laat hi ;
with Ger.- 4.\a=
ibarcd by i Ro p
Derrux:....
I tgarloread h\ I'rr.redure.
A eoM .-.? -
?
p 4 ?
?
_
. ? - ..hout
ent the note te
? ?
As'a .? jeel mat
ne el
':???->. I -I
- - Iy arnon.
.
I ?
- :
I apitol, he read the '
? ror
'
? ! lo'.l!
- return 4
gq.j the
?etare - ,.,-., .ad thc news i
. ? ? ?, ? eseargi ara
by Bfly of tbe
eaeBtatirea wbe ealled
? ., - ?'er of
- r ?? "? ? I ? TIP04
' ' ? ' ? ? -' < partlorolar f.Bf bmi %r>
4 ' '. . leatloa fcfTeetir.ir
U : tate
1 ...
? - raaa
' ? ?' ttee, fa
4 ? I a- off armed
fr,ntiBr.,^ ?? ,,?{, 4 K.iun. 6
LR.CENSURES
WILSON DELAY
Nation Is in Dilemma
Whether Germany
Yields or Not.
? , h I t r de
vi n would be
proof poi ' ve, i olonel lloor-.\e!t d"
clared yi terday, that the sam. ron
.'ould have been ohtained when
tha " triel Bceouutabillty" note w?.
aent; Germany'i rrfur-al would tind the
Bl imporent to make1
I threat i.c arai foartaen
I
"Fourteen monthi apri,'- aad lolonel
avalt, "thi- Preaidenta 'atrict ar
' note to Gerrnaay meant,
if it meant anything, at laait whgt the
prescnt note .^ay*. l'nfor*.ut,a'.r!v. tha
T'r-nd.nt'g actioji'a in V?xie? and s.
tegarda ather matten had been auch]
Germany did not b< evi tha 1 I
I red acror.i
aii(j thi Preaidenl re] eated notc*
? ? -. wer.
?aeh as
. . | to v-I did not j
? e impn
Ship After Ship Sunk.
.? ? t fourteen mo',*.'''? I
?? ,l many
.s 0f noncombatBM'r,
including many hundred livei of wom
. rei ? hava been laat
Germa v doi aa the Prei
ident demand?. it will br proof poaltiva
. chosen to tal ( tha
Bl the time of the
btric;
? ,-r Ildren and other
, . beei
11 o i ? ? '? Gei
ved.
"If, on the othei i?' d, Germany
? ? do a. n ed, H 'c well ta
?,. tl a- auch a note a.-. the
ar-rjuntai
mor.ths ago is unpardonable, aalfl
baeked up by the deeds to make
thi arordi good. If it ?'?? m'Hnt to be
and to get raaalta, it
.?.. been aceompanied by Im
mediate and thoroaghgoing prepared
i a i itter af fact. we
? Itronger by a man or a
r a boal Ol a run. Of tha amall
?gmmunltlon we have manu
., parl waa faraished to the
-.,., who aaed i* against our
, Bnd -nme has been furni-hed
*o the CarranalaUB, arha have hkewise
aga ? ? i ii troopa
Points to Hi" Owa Baak.
.... t? ?., 0f tl aia mattere I dla
arhat I hava
? ? l-ear
? Take Vour Own Part.
'??I ,?., r?!s repeal arbal I Ibaw
eoaabined witn
.,.,, on one'- ? .
to produea paaea, a pol ry o
..,.- ibn ? to orrong produeea a
, f Injarica wmrh mui.
t?d to, and thia leavea a ean
. . , ., peral ?b far moro dar.
to peaee than if thara had been
, oataai eouragaoui laiUtaaea
upon onr'" r
Police Ready, but Expect
No Disturbances Here
Betectivei Ruuhed to Guard Croton Reservoir and Mount
Kiaco ( itizena Join in Patrolling Watcrworks?Woo-ii
Deniea Plot Mrnacins City a Supply.
I '.-'., . . . ... j,- , .?. ?r, r r,f Mr
,. . -. .- .,y l.e.
. >.'p peepaw
? .7 asaaaet ae
1.1 4heir aervieea.
I . | ?
at 1 ' Ifeoad
.r V. ooda
eroogbly.
?
and
???r ?n whieh tvrv aaaa la tbe de
nar'r, ^r,4 llvel Ona of them i- Bled
rhaath.1 n the
r tha captain ia ?k?M preeinct
i ? bi hi hoaia k gen
?.| 7\am llMh.d Ueaeh >"?????'?*?;
. ,. ,, lh, ,,., waald ba retayaot at
,??.. ?r ,rary maa an th
fr,?a !, ar, hour th.- *?*"**}&]
DYp.rtai.Bi ?". .1 be ?obellaad ready
'?ii tro ? . 4 mm\
-.,.... .f tiaai ' tn ?> * ? '? '
. .^Iaj__ "H V" ?? ' j
o aoBaaaeeof ?><? pont t, .?iu?'" ?
Text of Wilson's Note to Berlin
H
TASHINGTON. April 19?The full text of the note to Berlin. addressed to Ambassador
Gerard, follows:
lar/f of Foreign Affairs a communication reading
You are instrnctcd to deliver to the Seere
us folloxcs:
I did ni,i ia// to transmit immediately, by
of the Wth instani in regard t<> certain attacks by
disastrous explorion which on March ,!), last, wrecked
I have now the honor to delher. under itutructiotU
Excettency:
Infortmatiotl now in the possession of the Government of tiie
? i state.. fully eatabllahea tho fact.-, in the case of the Suaaex,
and tbe inforenres which my Government has drawn from that
information it regard.s as confirmed hy the cirrumstanee?; set fotth
in Vour Exeellency'i note of the 10th inatant On the 24th of March,
1916, at about 2:60 o'clock in the afternoon, the unarmeii ateamer
Suaaex, with 825 or more paaaengera on board, among whom were .\
number of American citizens, was torpedocd white croaaing from
Kolkeetone to Dieppe. The Suaaex had never been armed; waa B
Known to b? hahitually ui-ed only for the conveyance of pa
aengera atnroaa the EngUah < hannel, and was not following the route
taken by troopships or aupply ships. About eighty of her pis-cn
gers, non-combatants of all ages and sexes. including citizens of tha
United State.-, were killed or injured.
A careful, detailed and scrupulously impartial tave*ttigatiofl hy
naval and military offirrr*: of tbe United States ba eonclualvaly
eatabliahed the fact that the Soaaex was torvaadoed without warning
or summons to surrender, and that the torpedo by which she wa ,
Btnich was of German manufacture. In the view of the Government
of the United States these facta from the tirst made the conclusmn
that the torpedo was fired by a German submarine unavoidahlc. It
row considcrs that conclusion nubstantiatcd by the statcments of
Your Exeelleney'a note. A full statement of the facts upon which
the Government of the United States has based its conclusion II
incloaed.
The Government of the United State.-, after having piven care?
ful consideration to the note of the Imperial Government of the 10th
of April, regretl tO Btata that the impression made upon it by tho
Btatementa and pronosals cor.tained in that note il t.hat the Imperial
Governmeni has failed to appreciate the gravity of the litoation
which has reaolted not alone from the a'tack on the Sussox, bu..
from the whole mithod and eharaeter of aubmarine warfare as du;
-', ed by the unrestrained pract.ice of the commandcrs of German
undersea craft during the past twelvemonth and more in the irdi
criminatc de.struction of merchant veaaela of all aorts. nationalitiei
and destinationr.
If the sinking of the Su*?sex had been an isolated case the Gov
emment of the United States might find it possible to hope that tha
offlcer who wa? responsible for that act had wilfully violated hil
orders or had been criminally negligent in takmg none of tbe
precautions they prescribed, and that the ends of justice might be
sntisfiod by imposing upon him an adeouate punishment, coupled
with a formal disavownl of the act and payment of a suitable indem
nity by the Imperial Government.
But, though the attaek upon the Suaaex was manifestly inde
fensible and causcd a loss of life so trngieal as tn make it star.d
forth as one of the most terrible examples of the inhumanity of iub
marine warfare as the commander.. of German veaaela are ror.duet
ing it, it unhappily does not stand alone.
On the i-or.trary, the Government of the United Statea ia forced
by recent aventa to conclude that it is only one instance, even though
one of the mo.-t extreme and most distrosMnp instanecs, of the delib
eratr method and spirit of indiscriminate destruction of merchant
veaaela of all BOrte, nationalities ar.d destinations which have becom*
more and more unmistakable as the activity of German undersea
veaaela of war has in recent months been quickened and extended.
The Imperial Government will recall that when, in rYbruary,
1915, it announn-i its int-fJltion of treatillg the waten r-urrounding
Greal Britain and Ir.land as embraced within the seat of war and of
deatroying all merchant ihipa owned by its enamica that might be
found Within that aone of danger, and warned all veaaela, neutral ai
arell a belligerent, to keep oui of the watera thua proacribed or to
rnter them at their peril, the Government of the United Stat
aameatly proteated. It took the position that such a policj could
r.,,t ba puraued without conatant grooa and palpabla violationa of tha
aeceptod law of nationa, particularly if submarine craft were to ba
..?ii aa ita inatruinenta, Inaamnrh as the rulea prescribed by
that law, niles founded on the principlcs of htimanity and e-tab
lilhed for the protection of the lives of non-combatantl at sea could
not in th.- nature of the case be obaerved by such reeaele. It ba.-ct
|1 proteat OB the ground that pcrsons of neutral nationality and
of m itral rrwnarahip would he flrxpoeed to Bxtreioe and intol
erable riaka; and that no righl to dooa any part of the high sea.
lawfully ba aaaartod by the Impenal Govi remaot ia the cir
? ,,r,i-i" then axiating.
Th< law Of nations in these matters. upon which the Govern?
ment of the Unitad State, based that protr.-t. la not of recent ongin
?r founded npon maraly arbitrary principl.-s set up by convention.
|< | bt ,,|, pn the ,'ontrary. upon manifest priririp.es of humanity
telegraph, to my Governmeni Vour Excellency's note
German submarhtes, and particularly in regard t<> the
the French steamship Sussex in the English Channel.
from my Government, the following reply to Your
and haa long been eatabliahed with *he approval and by tha expreia
? lertl of all civilizad nationa.
The Imperial Government. notwithatanding, pcrsisted in carrying
out the policy announced, expressing the hopn that the dangers in
volved, at any rate to neutral veaaela, would be reduced to a mini
mum by the in-tructions which it had iaaued to the commanders of
ita iibmarinea and aaauring the Government of the United Statea
thal it would take ivery possible prccaution both to respect the
righta of neutrala and to aafeguard the livea of non-combatanta.
|. par ??? ? ol thia policy of aubmarine warfare againat the
commorrc of ita adveraariea, thui aanouncad and thus entered upon
in deapite of the aolemn proteat of the Government of the United
Statea, the commander-; of th.- Imperial GovenUMut'l underse?.
\.s;.|s hava canicd on practiees of BUCh ruthless destruction which
have made it more and more evident as the months have gon* by
that the Imperial Goverrmen* has found It imprr.cticablo to put any
such reatrainl upon them as it had hoped and promieed to put. Again
and again the Imperial Government haa given ita Bolemn aaaurancea
to the Government of the United Statea thal at leaet paaaenger ship*
arould r-,.? ba thui deall with. and yet it haa repeatedly permitted
;' onderaea commanders to diaregard thoaa aaauraneea with entire
impunity. Ar recently as Kebruary last it gave rotiie that it arould
ref-ard all arme.l meri-h;intmi-n owned by it - ecemies as part of tha
armed naval foreea of its adveraariea and deal with them as with
men-of-war. thus, at. least by implication. pledging itaalf to giva
warning to veaaela which were not armed and to accord secunty of
1 fe to their passengcrs and crews; but even this limitation their
r-tibmarine commanders have reckleaaly ignored
\, ei ol neutral ownerahip, even veaaeh of neutral ownerahip
bound from neutral port to neutral port, have been deatroyed, along
with veaaela of belligerent ownerahip, in eonatantly incrca.sing num
bera. Sometimea the merchantmen attaeked hava i"-en warned and
hummont'il to aurrender before being fired "-i ?r torpedoed; acme
times their pasaengen and erewa have been vouchaafed the noor
?' being allowed to take to the ihip' te the ship
v;), ieni to the botl an. l; tl again and again no warning ha.. Men
given, no eacape even lo the slnp's boata allowed to 'ho.,. on board.
(Jreat linen like the Lu-itania and Arabic and mere paaaa iger
l.oats like the Suaaex hav.- been attaeked without a moment'a wam
Ing, often before they have even become aware that they were in
the presence of an armed ship of the enemy, and the lives of non
combatants, paaaengera and crew have bee*i de-troyed whole-al-*
and in a manner which tha Government of the United States cannot
but regard as wanton and without the illghtest color of justification.
N'o limit of any kind hasi in fact been set to their ndiscriminate
pursuit and destruction of mervhar.tmen of al! idndl and nationalities
within the water- which the Imperial <lovernmen*. ha? choser. tO
daalgnata as lying within the seat of war. The roll of Americans
who have lost their lives upon ships thus attaeked and deatroyed
has prown month by month, until the ominou" toll has mounted into
the hundreds.
The Government of the United .States has been very patient.
At every atag* of this distres^np- experience of trapedy after
tragedy it ha-= aought to be governed by the most thouphtful eon
,-ideration of the extraordinary eireumatancea of an unpre4*ed?mted
war and to i.e guided hy sentiments of very genuine friendship for
tha people and government of Germany. It ha- accepted the IUC
eeaaive explanationa and assuranees of the Imperial Governmei t, ai
of eouraa given in entire ilncerity and *rood faith, and has honed,
even againat hope, that it would prove to ba poaaible for the Imperial
Govenimeni I ler and control the acti of ita naval comn-.a-..' ri
as to aquara ita policy with the recounized principles of humanity
as em'.odied in the law of nations. It has ma ie every allowar.ee for
unprceedented conditions and has been willlng to wait until the fact
hecame unmi-takabie and wi re si-ceptible of only onr* interpretati..n.
It now owoa it to a juat regard for its own righta to say to the
Imperial Government that that time has come. It has become r ?
fully evident to it that the poaition which it took at the very oui al
is inevitable, namely. the use of -ubmarines for the destruction '?f
an enemy's commerce is of necessity. because of the very eharaeter
of the veaaela employed and the very methods of attaek which their
emp'ioyment of eouraa involvea, utterly incompatibla with the prin
ciplea of humanity, the long-eatabliahed and ineoirtrovertible righta
of neutrala, and the aacred immunitiea of non-combatants.
If it la still the purpose of the Imperial Government to prose
cute ralantleaa and tadiaerioiinata warfare agai I - ? eli of com?
merce by the n^v of submarines, without regard to what the Govern?
ment of the United States must consider the MCred and indisputable
rules of international law and the univer.-a'.'.y recognized dictitc
of humanity, the Government of the United States ia at laat forced
to the eoncluaion that there ia but one course it can pursue.
Unleaa tha Imperial Government ahould riow Immediately deri are
leffl ' afl .. ar-.dor.ment of its present aaethoda of aubmarine war?
fare againat paaaangar and fradarht-ararrying vea tha '< rverriment
of the United Statea can have no choice but to s, ver diplomatic re
lations with the German Kmpirc altlXfether. Thii BCtion the Gov
ert.m-nt of 'he United States cntemplat- with the graateat re
luctance, but t'eels constrained to taka ln behalf of humanity and thi>
righta of neutral nationa. LANSING.
ANOTHER UNLAWFUl ACT
MEANS HHSTANT RUPTURE
Outcome Now Rests Entirely with
Germany; No Room for Debate,
Washington Belief.
BERLIN MUST ABANDON
ATTACKS ON COMMERCE
Even Berlin Disclaimer Proves Sussex Was
Torpedoed, Says Appendix to Note
Reviewing Evidence.
fl-'rom The Trthune Purcaul
Washington, April 19.?Ono more iUffftl ?tt?dc on any ship,
belligerent or neutral, whether Amerkani ap-4 tboavrd or not,
after Germany has had time to transmit new orden t<> her suii
marine conunanders, will mean the breakinf nf all relations?
this is Washington's view to-night of the President's address
to-day to Conprress and note to Berlin.
Whether the break comes or not depends on Germany, offi
.?ials insist. It has ceasod to he a question of words, and be
comee one of deeds. Comment in the Gtpitol foHowing Ihe
President's address showa that be will have th'4 Blipport of i"on
gress in the course he has mapped out.
Germana here in cloee touch with Beriin declan there will
be no break?that Germany will meet the President's demands.
In Administration circlea thero la far leea optimism, though
many Senators and Reprosentatives still believe that the break
will be avoided. some COIinting on Germany's conres-ions and
some on a modorato interpretation of the statements made in
the note and address.
The note and address. it is oagreed on all sides, are far
itronger and more definite than anythinj? the President has pre
viously said on the subject. They are prartieally idontieal, and
lawyers point out that they narrow the whole debate down to
one issue?what Germany does.
SAY BERLIN
WILL YIELD
Germans in Capital
Think Demands Will
Be Granted.
?Prom TT-. Tn^una Hura.'J.l
WaebiBgtoa, April l* "Germany
will meet the demands made. in the
Preaideat'a note," it was stated to-r.:j?ht
by an officiM in cloee, touch w.th the
(;,rman Kmbassy, "thou*h she b
th.> fr.ited S'atps is not justitied in
makinjr them."
Tho German eiorw here ?? *h?>'
? maraly deraandi that Germany
make her iBbmarina peliey ronform
to the accept.'d priaciplaa ef inter
national law. and not that she aban
don submarine warfare elteof*th?r.
This. It la Biaotoi ?* a!1 that *? !'r'
dant eoald poM.ibljr ask, and thia cier
many is willmjr to do.
(our.4 -.on Bernatoril sent to Berlin
to ^.-'h4 a loag dUBBteh ir.terprctir.c
?uaf.on in Washington and mak
:.-(.' certan recommendaf.ona. He ia
i mteaoa to havo aorriaad hia ?">v
arBBBMt that ho beHeved the I'r.'.ted
Btatea meaat just what it said -.n Ita
submarir.e note ar.d that eometrr.nz
wou'.d have to be done ;. thi] ? '?
fn-i-dly lalatieaa were to cBtiaaa,
Ihe anbassador later aai li
"1 ean ma'r:- BO e.BMB.Bt eithet upon
the aoMreaa or upon tho eowBfliBBiea?
tion vhiell hag boiel ? I I tO my ?,ov
err.ment."
Mediterranean Derlaration.
? ".-er. hc '?>&? .Btl r I
fi.Le.i as ... sed the B
; . ? ?? - -... . ...- - IBt to
r.-.Kht that he Bcliered al leaat some
such declaru'-ion as tha*. mide re??ard
. . ? .- :.e warfare
?,n t/r... M raaaaB Bom should be
I'.-vr-i iana llatel* to cover all sub
ir.ar-.r.e
Mo-dito rrancan declaration was
handed to Secretary Lansinor by the
roBtlnoed on 4>M* *? eolnmn I
i ne queationa of ;aw, of rcsponsi
hilify. of diaan w.i! anrl 0f indemnity
ha'.o ?!! beoari Mt BM'lr4, and tho Prc*.
ident ha" made a finple demand?
that submarine outrages ceaao. Tlia
fift of his whole por-ition h deelar?d
in ho statod in the one bontvcnce:
"Unless the Jmperial Government
should now immediately derlare and
oafioBCt an abandonmrrr. of its present
methods of Mjbmarino warfare
apainst pa*?eni?i'r and freipht carry
ir.aT reaaela, the Government of the
ITnHoad Statafl can have no choice but
to sever diplomatir relations with tha
German Kmpire altojrether."
No RiK.ra Left for Debate.
Thia, ofTicials point out, la an ulti
matum in all but that it fails to nama
n BBrlaite time llmit.
.'? "n'.es what must be dor.e, and
^bat a folloa f the demand ia dla
rerjarded. [( - ? ? loaare room for
vThethei a breah aill come, GerrnanB
he?a ia) aa the exaet meanina;
of thia rassage, ar.d they iea in it a
way out of the eri.-s without serioua
humihation to eithor nation. But Ad
rr. ..?. Itl ..' r I all M ifl the paaiaga
a mea: il g rerj n:f7erer.t from that aj
put M ? '.rrrr.ar.s. *'
"The r ote me.ni that Germany rry-aat
? - aa abaT.Tio-.a.i tho uo*4* ?'
submar ? ?? iat comnerce," BrJJO ?
ght, *V>r there JP D#
t pr ie to use submarrneJ|
in future under mternationa! law wo4)4"
r.ot be aoceptable. When the noto>
ro eat methoota' lt meana tho
submar.r.e warfare on merchant ihipi."
If ths intorprotatioifl la that of tho
Preaideat, Ganaaa oaTiciala say. a break
ia rertam. Germany will not abandoa jfl
af tho suhmnnne, which she be- J|
'..??%?.? '..eapen against -fl
. nich she also believea ia
? i, ta conquer Britaia
a. I .* : ? .-. But they do not
tatioaa.
Would Hbe> International Law.
Mjra we muat aban
don our preeeat methods," aaid ona
high autt"r.t>. "Tho?e'methods wera
i la repnsa! againat Britaia,
and we believe we have a right to ua.
them, but we are arilllBg :o give theta
up rather thafl break arlth 'he l n'teol
Statcs We are wilhng to conduct ouf
