wis
WEATHER
MARKETS,
KfcW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 12, 27.25.
ARIZONA Cmeraly
fair.
Associated Press Special Leas erj Vvrire Service.
Vol. 18, No. 280.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, APRIL 20. 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
LIII
GS
II
vw
::
I
1
ffiSIl
Imperial Government Must Change Its Tactics or Lose Friendship ofUriited States
SEVERANCE OF DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS PROBABLE IF
TEUTONS REMAIN OBDURATE!!
BANDIT TRIAL ON
President's Long Expected Final Warning to Principal Cen
tral Power On Its Undersea Warfare is Sent. While the
Chief Executive is Addressing Joint Session of Congress
Note is being Telegraphed to Its European Destination
WASHINGTON. April 19. President Wilson's long expected final warn-
ing to Germany that the United States will break off diplomatic relations un
less she abandons her present methods of submarine warfare, and immediate
ly declares her intention to do so, was delivered today in a note to Berlin,
and aso was announced by the President in an address to a joint session of
Congress.
The President considers that the next step depends solely upon Germany
and that three or four days constitute a reasonable time for a reply.
Diplomatic history records but one instance as yet, where a breaking of
relations between two first class powers has not eventually brought war
that which now exists between Germany and Italy.
Congress received the President's declaration of his course with mixed
evidences of concern and approbation. Most of the leaders. Democrat and
Republican thought the President hardly could do less, and some expressed
the opinion that his action 'would not lead to war. Republican leader Mann
alone of all, the opposition leader, openly attacked the . President for his
stand. He characterized it as a political play.
President Wilson's words leave no opportunity for double meaning. In his
: address to Congress he said.: '
"I have deemed it my duty to say to the Imperial German government that
if it still is its purpose to prosecute relentless and indiscriminate warfare, the
government of the United States is at last forced to the conclusion that there
is but one course it can pursue; and that unless the Imperial government
should now, immediately, declare and effect an abandonment of its present
method of warfare against passenger and freight carrying vessels, this gov
ernment can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations altogether."
' The note to Berlin declares:
"The government of the United States has been very patient. It has ac
cepted the successive explanation's and assurances of the imperial German
government as of course given in entire sincerity and good faith and has
hoped even against hope, that it would prove to be possible for the Imperial
government so to order and control the acts of Us naval commanders as to
square its policy with the recognized principles of humanity as embodied in
the laws of nations. It has made every allowance for unprecedented condi
tions and been willing towait until the fact sbecame unmistakable or were
susceptible of only one interpretation.
"It now owes it to a just regard for its own rights to say to tlie Imperial
government that that time has come.
"It has become painfully evident to it that the position which it took at
the very outset is inevitable, namely, that the use of submarines for the de
struction of an enemy's commerce is of necessity because of the very charac
ter of the vessels employed and the very methods of attack which their em
ployment, of course, involved, utterly incompatible with the principles of hu
manity, the long established and incontrovertible rights of neutrals and the
sacred immunities of noncombatants.
"If it still is the purpose of the Imperial government to prosecute relent
less and indiscriminate warfare against vessels of commerce by the use of
submarines without regard to what the government of the United States!
must consider the sacred and indisputable rules of international law and the
universally conceded dictates of humanity, the government of the United
States is at last forced to the conclusion that there is but one course it can
pursue.
"Unless the Imperial German government uphold, now, and immediately j
declare and effect an abandonment of its present methods of submarine war-1
fare against passenger and freight carrying vessels, the government of the
United States can have no choice hut to sever diplomatic relations with the
German 1 government altogether. This action the government contemplates
with the greatest reluctance but feels constrained to take in behalf of human
ity and the rights of neutral nations."
Had the recent attack on the channel steamer Sussex, the note tells Ger
many, been an isolated one, the United States might have hoped that the
submarine commander acted in violation of his government's solemn pledges
and that the ends of justice might have been satisfied by a disavowal, repara
tion and proper punishment. But. it adds, that case unhappily does not stand
alone.
"On the contrary," the note says, "the government of the United States
is forced by recent events to conclude that it is only one instance, even
though one of the most extreme and most distressing instances of the delib
erate method and spirit of indiscriminate destruction of merchant vessels of
all sorts, nationalities and destinations which have become more and more
unmistakable as to the activity of German underwater vessels or war has in
recent months been quickened and extended."
. The United States, the communication declares, considers the torpedoing
of the Sussex not only proved by the evidence, but actually substantiated by
the German disclaimer of responsibility. .
Attached to the American note, as an appendix, are the facts In the cas
of the Sussex, hey show that three American army and naval officers found
(Continued en Pas 3)
DEM1NG, X. M., April 13.
Six wounded Mexicans, ca
tured in El Valie. Chi., today
were placed on trial here od
the charge of murder. The
State rested its case this after
noon and it was expected the
trial would be short.
The defense wii: attempt to
show that the Mexicans, or
some of them, were Carranzis
ta prisoners in custody of the
Villa force.
Three others, who are in jail
here, are yet to be tried. They
were taken during the raid on
Columbus, X. M., or shortly
afterward. They also will be
tried on the charge of murder.
limn y"VTT-m
MfAl .iUV bltiMJlC
fcfSKKS KKV ATORSHIP
CAN BE HEALED
j4&F V
Nfl BERHSTDHFF1
THIS BREACH
uc v.
I JjU
I
DD
OSECUTI
OF HON IGEL
PRESSED
DIAZ AGENT IN U. S.
DECLARES FELIX IS
UNCLE SAM'S FRIEND
Chester II. Aldrich.
Former Governor Chester H. Aid
rich of Lincoln is one of the two
German Ambassador Quoted i lehVn candidate, for the RePu
J o . TnT e r "can "om;nation for United States
As Saying That Some Way j senator from Nebraska, rie is op
Will Be Found To Meet Po- j pos?d in the primaries by John I.,
tilion of the UnUerl Stat? ' Keine.iy of Omaha, . former con
pressman. Liotn are or the .Lltra-
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASH1XGTOX. April 19. Count
von Bernstorff sent to Berlin tod:.y a
long dispatch interesting the situation
in Washington and making certain
recommendations. He is understood
to hae advised his government that
he believes the United States meant
just what it said in its submarine
note and. that something vou'd have
to be done quickly, it friendly rela
tions were to continue.
The ambassador himself read the
address o fthe President and said:
"I can make no comment either
upon the address or upon the note
which has been sent to my govern
ment." However, he was authoritatively de
scribed as having advised the Berlin
foreign office in the message sent to
night that he believed at least some
such declaration as that made retard
ing the conduct of submarine warfare
in the Mediterranean Sea should be
issued to cover all submarine activi
ties. '
The assurances were to tfce effect
that only a modified warfare would
be conducted against enemy mar
chant ships, and that non-war ships
of every' character, freight as well as
passenger carrying, would be ai-eord-ed
proper warning and safety for
their passengers and crews. The as
surances which have been given for
the war zone covered only "liners".
The declaration of January 7 also
promised that German submarine
Attorney General's Office De-;
cides That German Embas-
sy Attache Has No Claim to j
Prosecution Immunity j
SOME OF SEIZED
PAPERS RETURNED
United States District Attor-j
ney Will Go Ahead With;
Case. Officials Unwilling to !
Discuss Documents Taken
' - J ...
' V '
i , - "-f ,
i -JF - V t- 1
1 r :
i LJi L ?!
QsaL 1
I
peon C0HE5
! TO BORDER
AFFAIR
W. E. D. Stokes.
"Felix Diaz is in Mexico with 23,-
Neither Action or Withdrawal
of American Troops From
Mexico Expected For From
Week to Ten Days Ahead
GENERAL TO REPORT
ON THE CONDITIONS
ooo men at his ralL but he is entire- Mexican Border Officials Still
ly irienajy to the united States,
says V. E. D. Stokes. New York
:..
yi Ui vu snipe.
mllicl
mam
nr
Ur VlLLtt
millionaire, who is the representative
of Diaz in this country. Stokes says
Diaz was offered an immense sum of
i money, unlimited arms, and eciuip
' . i .i -j . .
Maintain Their Belief in Ru
mor That Villa Died of His
Wounds And Was Buried
Discussing the dispatch. Minister of
War Obregon said the body probably
was that of the bandit chief. U a
commanders who failed to obey the ho ...,. u.0 ,,'
assurances given would be punished Uona, 8it;iaUolli br0UKht about Dv ,,,
and that reparation would be made for Anieri an ,roops in Mexico,
deaths or injury to American citi-
returned to the Gcnvnn embassy. U. S.
' Attorney H. Sncwden Marshal an-
I nouncea loitay. rns statement was
t'made in explanation of the latest phase j
of the tsnule which followed the ar- J
rest of the former secretarv to Cnt-!
tain Kranz von Papen. recalled Cer
ii an military attache, who is nov: de-
! dared by Ambassrtlcr von liernslorfl
to be an attache of the German em
bassy. - '
"I have not evin considered the re-
I lra;e of von Igel." Mr. Marshall con
Mexican War Department Re- 1 1'"". "The legality of his arrest was
nr TT. a. vf 'definitely settled so far as my office
ceives Message That it as is roni.eril,,u. ear)y today.
Villa Who Was Disinterred i "Following von lecl's arrest the pro-
C.ft RrtrJa Rurial QnM ' lest "f "e German Ambassador was
from Borja Burial 2pot . d(, (o the Se.rptarv of State HnJ
, . I Mr. Lansing referred the matter to
mp ,L Atv , i the Attorney General. When the pro
MEMCO C T. April 19.-A ds-!1es( rea,.hed my office, the only cues
patch received by the ar Department ,, , h ,,prl,(.rt whPthPr vnn
the German
ut. "f ilia
graph operator at San Antonio. Ci-Lril .e , ,'lWl( illI1I!Pdiately to re-
who recently disinterred t!'e body of
a man at Sa.i Francisco Borja, had
declared it was that of Franci-co
Villa and that it would be shipped to
litication jlation of German territory. on Igel
lotiieiitiea mat ins oince was it urnucu
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NKW H)RK. April '9. Wolfe von
vel will not bo released from custody
and only a part of the documents seiz
ed at the time o this arrest on a
charge or being implicated in a plot, mint and other inducements by Ger- n the withdrawal of American tonips
.u .ifhinij i.. ..Ki.....u ...i.,, ... u many u ne wouia lomem revoiunoti fro. Mevi..(1 is not emot-ted until the
WASHINGTON. April 19. Action
w. , lur ... v.i.i. .i ,ion (o bp ,rii(.d was wm
ocny from military headuitarters n . , member of the
the state of Ch.hual.ua. said the tele-. amD!,S!i.,dt,r.8 rU on ,lle dli
.'port in the negative.
I Mr. Marshall-asserted there was no
i bfsis for protest against his reten-
ion of the papers on the ground
that they were obtained through a vio-
TYPHUS W
BE
SWEEPING
5
zens.
German commanders operating in
the Mediterranean, it is said in a de
claration which was issued after the
steamer Persia had gone down, ha-1
particular instructions to adopt such
measures of reprisal as were in force
in the war zone around Eneland. Von
Bernstorff will confer with Secretary!
Lansing tomorrow. Since the incep-J
tion of the present situation Count
of the German embassy.
CARRANZA FETED.
MEXICO CITY. April 19. Thou
sands of Indians from towns sur
rounding this city and situated in the
Federal District, participated today
in a great parade in honor of Ventis
tiano Carranza.
TO FIGHT ZAPATA.
MEXICO CITY. April 19. General
von Bernstorff has p.ade two attempts Gonzales, who has been in the capital
to discuss the situation with the sec- for several months, will leave for next i
retary. on each occasion he was in- Monday, going to Contreras, a point
formed, however, that he would be between Mexico City and Cuernavaca
given an opportunity later. While the on the Mexico Iguula railway. The
ambassador appeared to be more command of General Gonzales ton
perturbed today than at any time sists of 45.000 men, scattered throuszh
since the beginning of the submarine out the federal district and tli states
controversy, he was said to feel that of Morelos. Puebla, liiilitho and
his government would go to every Mexico.
possible lencth to Drevent the sever
ance of relations.
Persons in close touch with affairs
of the embassy quoted him as savlna:
"I believe that some way will be
It is understood the bulk of these
men will be used in the furtherance
of the campaign against Kmiliano
Zapata, In the state of Morelos.
The war department claims to have
found satisfactory to meet the posi- received full confirmation of the death
tion of the I'nited States." of General Palafos, Antonio Soto y
Gama. former president and General
LONDON ON NOTE Francisco Pacheco. which were re-
LOXDON, April 19. Although the ported several days ago. All these
text of President Wilson's message to men occupied positions in the cabinet
Congress did not reach London in
time for the morning papers to com
ment fully, all devote considerable
space to the American situation. The
Daily Chronicle says editoriallv:
"It is difficult to supnose ihat the
German government elated by Hie
submarine successes of the past, will
accept President Wilson's terms. Din
lomatie relations between Herlin and
Washington will be broken off. The
resulting situation will not be a state
of war, but may easily develop into
war.
"Thf Is obvious to both pnrMe.
Mr. Wilson h counted tb cost. Pr-
of the Zapata government, and were
killed by the orders of Zapata, who
accused them of conspiracy axainst
him.
ASSURANCES GIVEN.
MEXICO CITY. April 19 Mexican
officials gave assurances to
Linn Kodgers. representative of the
(Bv Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, April 19. The At
torney General's oifice is understood
to have decided to prosecute Wolfe
von Igel. Captain von Papen's former
secretary who was arrested yesteraa
n New York and on an indictment
cbarginc him with conspiring to blow
up the Welland Canal, notwithstand
ing the German embassy's request
that von lael be released.
Counselor Polk o fthe State depat
ment yesterday addressed the depart
ment of Justice to free the prisoner
unless the offen?e was committed
before he became a member of the
embassy staff. As the crime Is al
leged to have been committed in Sep
tember, 1914. while von Igel was not
registered as an embassy employe un
til December. 1915. the legal branch
of the government is sai dto have con
cluded that no diplomatic immunity
stands in the way of his prosecu
tion. In fact, some of them contend thai",
clerks or secretaries or emoassy at-:
taches. even though formally register-'
ed as such, enjov no immunity. It.ments.
' American government receives a
li-nis confronting General Kr.nston.
The administration's final actinn on
General Carrr.nza's suggestion th:if the
expedition be recalled probably wil! Iv
'based largely on v. hat Is shown in i
: report.
General Scott, who left Washing'on
lonigh. hardly will be ab'e to a.ake
tiie round trip and complete his ober
) ration? in less than ten days.
Secretary Maker ynid Generai :-otl .
-mission would be 10 assemble i-oni-ple'e
informi'tien as to the border sit
uation for' the secretary which Mr.
B-ker has felt .the need of in ad-
e 1 D x r -pi dressinn the administration a to the
Southern Part of The Mocte- niiIitary HS1p(ts of lhe Mexi,an siU1R.
zuma District Has Very tion.
Contagious Disease. Calles Gyi Pco.t hin.seif acknowledged
. , that he would be the eyes of the see-
Ketires lO rronteras retary on the border." A ceo npar.en oj
. his aide. Lieut.-Col.. Robert E- I.
(By Review Leased Wire.) (Michie. of the general staff, he will
DOl'GLAS. April 19. Americans av reach General Funstcn's headquarters
riving here today from the Havispe at S:'n Antonio. Texas, next Friday
river valley in which the co'icetnra- evenim;.
tion of troops in Eastern Sonora has Mr. Bi-ker laid sre-s on the tact
been under way for several wees re that General Funston is in supr-.;if
port that the defacto forces are sta- coht..-iihI of the situation and the ex
tionaiy and are experiencing difficulty : peditioWiry forces and will remain
in cettina sufficient food Minifies. o. lie said the department fully ap-
lves G. Lelevier consul of the de- proved every step tn-nernl Fun.-ton has
facto government in Douglas stated uken. and that General Scott was
today that General Arnulfo Gomez Is aoin-,' only because it had seemed art
still in Colonia Morelos and has no visablc to st a clearer icw than as
intention of moving for the present, possible by means cf racial reports.
H denied authoritatively that General In the meantime, fta'c department.
Gomez has received any orders from officials wlP take up consideration or
General Obreson. to advance in Chi- what rcp'y 'hey shall make to iM
huahua. Such orders have been ex- Cnrrpnza ro'e urKz the A-rerican
peeled for nearly two weeks, and iheir troops b withdrawn. Some q'ie:on
continued absence is puzzling the Mx- involved n tb?t m-e ran be worked
ican authorities. . cut hefoie the military vltuarion final
General P. Elis Calles, military gov- ly is reported.
Dispatches from the border or frcn
Mexican territory con'ain-d no word
of development chancing the situation.
has been reported that the Stale de
partment was consulted before von
Isel was indicted and officials of
the department of justice have made
it clear that they would be guided
ernor of Sonora. left Agua PricM
cretly last night for Front eras.
miles south, for a stay of indefinite
leneth.
General Calles sent word to Consul
lelevier today, however, that be wish- F.L PASO. Texas. April IS. In spue
ed to rest and recuperate for a few evry denial and doubt in ta? e
days. While in Fronferas he will sew of the statement of Governor Kniiquez
no one. The consul explained that at Chihuahua that .he storv of Villa's
hundreds of callers had been received death was a rumor. General Gaviia
Jt his headquarters during n tt- and Consul Garicia reasserted tonUhr
cent illness. The excitement and con- their confidence in t'le tru'h of tre
slant worry .servina to agcavate the findThs of 'he b,i!y of the b.-ndit.
nervousness of the patient. I Central Gavira soiil that he lesrn"d
It was definitely learned today that unofficially today thn the failure of
General Calles came to the border on Colore! Cavans. wtio went to San
orders from General Obregon to re- Francisco Borja to cxhutre Vil'a's
main in close touch with American af- botly. to strive m Cu-ilriincr.ic was
fairs during the present crisis in the due to the fact that he had charged
relations between the two govern- his nnvsram ami wan taking tb body
to S."'.ta Isabel. The latter town is
Calles explained this In connection 35 miles north of San Francisco Bor-
with his sickness. He had been or
dered to the border and could not
leave until the orer was counterman
ded he said. Arrivals tiidy report a
respect t the case, j not been determined, but which is be- eas:ness over t
nfs seized in von Pa-ilieved to be typhus, has broken out in cf direct news :
.ia :md about rn equal distance from
Chihuahua with which it is connected
by the Mexico Northwestern railroad.
At the me time both General t?4
vira and Consul Garcia cx:resset it:!
h- rontinued shse"cn
from Colonel Civazos.
He is net suri.osed to have had more
ed will be returned to the German district of Sonora. There have been vhan a small body of troops with
e-vbassy. Secretary Lansing today , fri number of deaths in Vorteztrna him end it is feared that be may have
assured Count von Bernstorff that j and the vicinity of Cumpas. fallen into a trctp laid for him by
this would be done after the latter j The disease, whether or rot It Is , the Villistas. lrrest in Villa's fate or
hatl called at the state department typhus, is said to be proving very con- whereabouw has considerably waned
James'snd emphasized his demand of yester- tncious. few patients recovering and here in the face of the crisis between
(lav death eenerally ensues a few no'irs tne l n.teu Mates and t.ermany. anil
entirelv bv the wishes of the statu 'new disease, the nature of which has
department in
Official document!
pen's office when von Isel was arrest- the southern part of the Mocteziuna
...:, . . ..... 1 . 1. J-. ...,., '.J;.-..:.., ,,t U ..... Tlmr. h.v. K
I'nited States government, that no The papers which embassy officials alter the sickness begin-..
seemed most anxious to recover. re;
American would be expelled from
Mexico under article Z? of the federal
constitution unless evidence was
produved that he hatl taken part in German official cypher.
the military activities of eneniien of i
said to be partly in code an, dtheir ex- j
animation w-otild reveal the key to tha
QUIET AT SAN ANTONIO.
SAN ANTONIO. April !!.- Military
operations of the American forces in
Department of Justice officials wer Mexico wil! remain practically at s
iiin.M. iKi v.i... h.i lm mnnigil the nresent government. This article. ! unwillinj? to discuss the disposition standstill until t.eneral Scott, chirr
the cost. If Germny decided that the .which the Carranza government in-ic-f these papers, o rtp coprtrnja re- of staff has completed hir study or st points where Genera! Parshing and
continuance of the submarining Is 'tended to enforce strictly in certain ' rort that some of tbetu had len the' situation. General Funston believe they ar
i's possible effect on causing the with
drawal of the 'roop from Mextcn
Wsshinc'on. and not Mexico is the real
centrr of interest to the bonier to
night. The expedition sekins Villa is at
a standstill apparent!- concentrating
(Continued on Page 8) (.Continued on Page Two.) J forwarded from New York.
(Continued on Pass Five )
(Continued on Pas Two.)
