!
THE AONA REPUBLIC
AN lu. PENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
T,WT?XTTT'V OTY rPTT XTT? A T
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, APRIL 20, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI., NO. 330
EMMY MUST HEED.OR MEMATK
BR
j& j& j& ? J& j& & J& j&
President Wilson Before Congress' Announces Sending of Final Note to Imperial German Government at Berlin
THE MESSAGE
PRESIDENT'S DECLARATION IS RECEIVED
The President's Message
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
In addressing the joint session, the
president said:
'Gentlemen of the congress: A sit
uation has arisen in the foreign rela
tions of the country, of which it is
my plain duty to inform you very
frankly.
" It will be recalled that in February,
1915, the Imperial German government
announced its intention, to treat the
waters surrounding Great Britain and
Ireland as embraced within the seat of
war, and to destroy all merchant ships
owned by its enemies that might be
found within any1 part of that portion
of the high Reas, and that it warned
all vessels of neutral as well as of
belligerent ownership to keep out of
the waters it had thus prescribed or
el.se enter them at their peril.
The government of the United
States earnestly protested. It took
the position that such a policy could
not be pursued without the practical j
certainty of gross and palpable vio
lation of the law of nations, particu
larly if submarine craft were to be
employed as its instruments. Inas
much as the rules prescribed by that
law, rules founded upon principles of
humanity and established for the pro
tection of the lives of non-combatants
at ea, could not. In the nature of the
case, be observed by such vessels.
'it based Its protest on the ground
that persons of neutral nationality and
vessels of neutral ownership would be
exposed to extreme and intolerable
rihks, and that no right to clORe any
part of the high seas against their
use or to expose them to such risks
could lawfully be asserted by any bel
ligerent government.
Law of Nations
"The law of nations In these mat
ters, upon which the government of
the United States bases its protest
is not of recent origin, or founded
upin merely arbitrary principles set
up by convention. It Is based, on
the contrary, upon manifest and Im
perative principles of humanity and
has long been established with the
approval and by the express assent of
all civilized nations.
"Notwithstanding the earnest pro
test of our government, the Imperial
Grm:n government t.t once proceeded
to carry out the policy It had an
nnrnced. It expressed the hope that
the dangers Involved, at any rate the
dangers to neutral vessels, would be
reduced to a minimum by the instruc
tions which It had issued to its sub
marine commanders and assured the
government of the United States that
it would take every possible precau
tion, both to respect the rights of
neutrals and to safeguard the lives of
non-combatants.
'What has. actually happened in
the year which has since elapsed has
shown that these hopes were not jus
tified, those assurances insusceptible
of being filled. In pursuance of the
policy of submarine warfare against
the commerce of Its adversaries, thus
announced and entertained upon the
imperial German government In spite
of the solemn protest of this govern
(Continued on Page Nine)
BY GDtiGRESS WITH MIXED EVIDENGE
OF
1 THE NOTE
CONCERN ID
1
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 19.-President. Wilson's long expected final
warning to Germany that the United States will break off diplomatic re
lations unless she abandons her present methods of submarine warfare,
and immediately declares her intention to do so, was delivered today in a
note to Berlin and also was announced by the president in an address to a
joint session of congress.
The president considers that the next step depends solely upon Ger
many and that three or four days constitute a reasonable time for a reply.
Diplomatic history records but one instance as yet, where a breaking of
relations between two first class powers has not eventually brought war
that which now exists between Germany and Italy.
Congress received the president' s declaration of his course with
rnixed evidences of concern and approbation. Most of the leaders, demo
cratic and republican, thought the president hardly could do less, and
some expressed the opinion that his action would not lead to war. Repub
lican Leader Mann, along with all the opposition leaders, openly attacked
the president for his stand. He characterized it as a political play.
The president guarded his plans
with effective sesrecy, until 10
o'clock this morning when he dis
closed them at a conference with
Chairman Stone. and Senator
Lodge, the ranking republican, of
the senate foreign relations com
mittee and Chairman Flood and
Representative Cooper, the rank
ink republican, of the foreign af
fairs committee of the house. He
outlined to them what he had
said in the note despatched to
Berlin last night, and what he
purposed to say to congress to
day. When the president finished
reading, he looked up and seeing
Senator Stone's grave face, said,
"You look as sad as I feel."
The chairman's response was
to inquire of the president if he
and told them all he had to say.
The conference thus ended. $
The word of the president's
plan spread quickly through con
gress and when he took his place
at the clerk's desk in the hall of
the house, promptly at one o'clock
he was confronted by an assem
bly of gravely quiet senators and
representatives who hung intent
ly upon every word he uttered,
and cheered him heartily when
he had finished.
The president asked nothing of
congress; he came only to inform
it of his action. He did it in fif
teen minutes and congress went
back to work, solemnly impressed
with the situation which con
fronted the country. The scene
had been dramatically human.
The president's demenor reflected
his state of mind, and an impar
tial observer readily would say
the demeanor of congress as a
whole reflected its sympathy.
The first actually crucial mo
ment toward which the relations
of the United States and Ger
many have been steadily drift
ing for nearly a year had come
and been passed and the presi
dent had returned to the white
house to await the next one.
America waits the action of
Berlin.
President Wilson's words leave no
opportunity for double meaning. In
his address to congress be said:
"I have deemed it my duty to say
to the imiieriul German government
that if it is still its purpose to pros
ecute relentless and indiscriminate
warfare th government ofi
the United States is at last forced to
the conclusion that there is but one
course it can pursue, and that unless
the imperial German government
should now, immediately declare and
effect an abandonment of Its pres
ent methods of warfare against iMks
enger and freight carrying vessels,
this government can have no choice
but to sever diplomatic relations al
together." The note to Berlin declares:
"The government of the United
States has been very patient.
It has accepted the successive expla
nations and assurances of the imper
ial German government .is of course
given In entire sincerity, and good
faith and has hoped even against
hope that it would prove to be pos
sible for the imperial government so
to order an 1 control the acts of its
naval commanders as to square its
policy with the recognized principles
of humanity, as embodied in the law
of nations. It has made every al
lowance for unprecedented conditions
and has been willing to wait until the
facts became unraistakalila,. and wwn
susceptible only of one interpreta
tion. "It now owes It to a just regard for
Its own rights to say to the imperial
government that that time has come.
"It has become painfully evident
to It that the position which it took
at the very outset is Inevitable,
namely, the us? of submarines for the
destruction of an enemy's commerce
is of necessity because of the vcryi
character of the vessels employed and
the very methods of attack which
their employment of course. Involves.
itterly incompatible with the prin
ciples of humanity, the long estab
lished and incontrovertible rights of
neutrals and the sacred immunities
of non-combatants.
"If it still is the purpose of the
imperial government to prosecute re
lentless and indiscriminate warfare
against vessels of commerce by the
use of submarines without regard to
what the government of the United
States must consider the sacred and
indisputable rules of international law
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', April 19. Ameri
ca's note to Germany made public
here late today says:
Unless .the imperial government j -
should now Immediately declare and
effect an abandonment of its present
methods of submarine warfare
against passenger and frieght carry
ing vessels, the government of the
United States can have no choice but
to sever diplomatic relations with
the German empire altogether."
"If," says the note, "It is still the
purposes of the imperial government
to prosecute relentless and itidis
criminating warfare against vessels
of eommerce by the use of submar
ines withnut regard to what the
government of the U. S. must con
sider the. sacred and indisputable
rules of international law and the
universally recognized dictates of
humanity, the government of the
United States is at last forced to the
conclusion that there is but one
course it can pursue."
The note asserts that information
in the possession of the U. S. estab
lishes conclusively that the channel
steamer Sussex was torpjedoed with
out warning and that the torpedo was
of German manufacture. The con
clusion that the torpedo was fired by
a German submarine, it adds, is con
sidered substantiated by Germany's
disclaimer.
The note declares if the Sussex
had been an isolated case the United
States might regard it as possible
to hope that officers responsible had
been negligent or violated his orders,
but that unhappily this terrible ex
ample of submarine warfare does
nut stand alone.
Germany is informed that the Uni
ted - States gained the impression
from her recent communication that
the imperial government failed to ap
predate the gravity of the situation
"which has resulted not alone from
the attack on the Sussex but from
the whole method and character of
submarine warfare, as disclosed by
the unrestrained practice of the com
manders of German undersea craft
during the past twelve months and
more .in the indiscriminate destruc
tion of merchant vessels of all sorts,
nationalities and destinations." ,
An appendix to the note which
deals entirely with an analysis of
the facts in the Sussex case dis
closes that American army and navy
officers found in the Sussex crew
bolts which correspondent with those
on German torpedoes in possession
of the French naval authorities at
Toulon. The screw bolts are used to
tasten the war head to the air
chamber.
Full Text of Note
The full text of the note follows:
You are instructed to deliver to the
secretary of foreign affairs a com
munication reading as follows:
"I did not fail to transmit immedi
ately by telegraph to my government
your excellancy's note of the tenth
NO WITHDRAWAL UNTIL
GENERAL SCOTT MAKES
REPORT ON SITUATION
i
CONFIRMING THE
DEATH OF VILLA
MEXICO CITY, April 19 Ac-
cording to messages received here
evidence confirmatory to the death j
of Francisco Villa is being gath- j
j ered slowly. Officials now are
more disposed to give credit to the
first reports of the finding of the
j grave of the bandit. One report j
j today said the Indians who cared
for Villa during bis last days bad j
been located and depositions taken.
j According to these affidavits. Villa j
died of blood poisoning. At the j
foreign office full credit is at- j
tached to the statements of these
j Indians. ' j
: D
Ml CERTAIN
OWE BODY Of
PANGH0V1LLA
- . i
Not for at Least Ten Days
Will Decision Be Made as
to the Recall of the United
States Troops Now in
Mexico
.
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
WASHINGTON, April 19. No de
cision as to the withdrawal of Ameri
can troops from Mexico is expected
for a week or ten days, unless there
are new outbreaks against the forces "
in Mexico to compel immediate ac
tion. This was made clear today
when Secretary Baker dispatched
Major General Hugh L. Scott chief "
jof staff, to the border as his per
sonal representative to make a com
plete report on the military problems
copfronting General Funston.
The administration's final action on
General Carranza's suggestion that
the expedition be recalled probably
will be based largely on what is
shown in this report. General Scott,
who left Washington tonight, hardly
will be able to make the round trip
and complete his observations in
less than ten days.
Secretary Baker said General
i Scott's mission would be to assemble
: complete information as to the border
situation for the use of the depart
ment. He also will establish a per
sonal touch with .that situation for
the secretary which Mr. Baker has
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, April 19. A dis
patch received by the war depart-; felt need of in advising the adminis
ment today from military headquar-, tration as to the military aspects of
ters in the state of Chihuahua said i the Mexican question,
the telegraph operator at San An- i General Scott himself explained
tonio, Chihuahua, had reported that ! that he would be "the eyes of the
the party which recently disinterred ' secretary" on the border. Accom
thc body of a man at San Francisco ' Panied by his aide, Lienutenant Colo
Borja had declared it was that . nel Robert E. L. Miehie, of the gener
of Francisco Villa and that itlal's staff ne win reach General Fun
woi;lt! be shipped to headquarters ston's headquarters at San Antonio,
for the purpose of identification.
Texas, next Friday evening.
Mr. Baker laid stress in his an
nouncement on the fact that General
Funston is in supreme command of
the bnrrlpr uitimtinn and ovnetitinn-
complete identification was obtained jary forces and w remain so He
Discussing the dispatch. Minister of
War obregon said the body probably
was that of the bandit chief. If a
he added, it would solve the interna
tional situation that brought about
the advance of American troops into
Mexico.
General Gonzales, who has been in . sirable to get a
the capital for several months, w ill , was possible by
said the department fully approved
every' step General Funston had tak
en, and that General Scott was go
ing only because it had seemed de-
clearer view than
means of official
nd the universally recognized die- instant in regard to certain attacks
tates of humanity, the government of ; hV German submarines, and particu
tho United states in at last forced , larly reference to the disastrous
Bernstorff Reports United
States Means What It Says
.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 19. Count
von Bernstorff Bent to Berlin tonight
a long dispatch regarding the sit
uation with Washington and making
certain recommendations. He is un
derstood to have advised his govern
ment that he ! believes the United
States meant just what it said In
the submarine note and that some
thing would have to be done quick
ly if friendly relations were to continue.
The ambassador himself having
read the address of the president and
the note said:
"I can make ' no comment either
upon the address or upon the com
munication which has been sent to
my government."
YS 7 . , , , ; r , Lansing tomorrow. The secretarv in
described as having advised the Ber- formed nlm to(lay that hp wag rea(j
lin foreign office in the message .
sent tonight that he believes at I
least some such declaration as that
made regarding the conduct of sub
marine warfare In the Mediterranean
Should be issued immediately to
cover all submarine operations.
The Mediterranean declaration was
handed to Secretary Lansing by the
Ambassador on January 7 of this
year. It contained assurances much
broader in their scope than these
given to cover the activities of the
for their passengers and crew. The
assurances which have been given for
the war zone around the British isles
covered only "liners."
The declaration of January 7 also
promised that German submarine
commanders who failed to obey the
assurances given would be punish
ed and that reparation would be
made for deaths or Injury to Ameri
can citizens.
German commanders operating in
the Mediterranean it was said in the
declaration which was issued after
the steamship Persia had gone down.
nan particular instructions to ex
clude such measures of reprisal as
were applied in the war zone around
the British Isles.
It is expected that Count von Bern
storff will confer with Secretarv
to discuss the matter at his con
venience. Since the Inception of the
present situation, Count von Bern
storff has made two attempts to dis
cuss the situation With.' the secretary-
On each occasion, he was in
formed that he would be given an
opportunity later. The time of the
proposed conference has not been
delnitelv fixed tonight. While the
ambassador appeared to be more pur-
turbed tonight than at any time since
the beginning of the submarine con
troversy he was said to feel that his
government would go to every pos
sible length to prevent the severance
of diplomatic relations.
Persons in close .touch with af
fairs of the embassy quoted him as
saying:
"I helievo that some way will be
found satisfactorily to meet the po
sition of the United States."
to the conclusion that there is but
one co'irse it can pursue.
'Unless .the imperial government
uphold, now immediately declare and
effect, an abandonment of its pres
ent methods of .submarine warfare
igninst passengers and freight carry
ing vessels, the government of the 1
United States can have no choice
but to sever diplomatic relations with
ti e German empire altogether. This
action, the government of the United
States contemplates with the great
est reluctance, but feels constrained
to take in behalf of humanity and
the rights of neutral nations."
Had the recent attack on the
Channel Steamer Sussex, the note
tells Germany, been on isolated
case, the United States might have
hoped that the submarine commander
acted in violation of his government's
solemn pledges and that the ends of
justice might have been satisfied by
a disavowal,, reparation and proper
punishment. But, it adds, this case
unhappily ' does not stand alone.
, "On the contrary," the note says,
"the government of the United States
iR forced by recent everts to conclude
that it is only one instance even
though one of the most extreme and
most distressing instances of the .de
liberate method and spirit of in
discriminate destruction of merchant
vessels of all sortsj- nationalities and
destinations which have become more
and more unmistakable . a to the
exploision which on March 24 last
wrecked the steamship Sussex In the
English channel. I have now the
honor to deliver, under instructions
leave with his forces next Monday for reports.
Contereras a point in the mountains j In the meantime, state department
between this city and Cuerevaco on .officials will take up consideration of
the Mexico Iguala railwpy. The com-'What reply they shall make to the
rnand of General Gonzales consists , Carranza note urging the withdrawal
of 45,l(i0 men scattered throughout ; of the American forces. Some ques
the federal district and the states of tions involved in that note can be
Morelos, Puebla, Hidalgo and Mexico. ! w-orked out before the military situa-
It is understood that the bulk of these tlon finally is reported.
men will be used in the furtherance
of the campaign against Kmiliano Za
pata, in the state of Morelos.
The war department claims to have
received full confirmation of the
deaths of General Manuel Palafo,
ronio Soto, Y. Gama, former
dent of the republic and General
Francisco Pacheco which were re
ported several days ago. All these
Dispatches from the border or from
Mexico today contained no word of
(Continued on Page Five)
0 .
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Two)
TXLittle Doing With
U.S. Troops Until
Scott Investigates
London Papers Comment on
Latest Note to Germany
DEFAGTO THOQPS HAVE TROUBLE
INSECIINC FOOD SUPPLIES
(Continued on Page Five)
-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, April 20. Although the
text of President Wilson's message to
submarine In the war zone around I conKress did not reach London in
the British isles where Germany has;timp tor tne morning papers to corn
contended from the first that she was ; ment fully, all devote considerable
engaged in a campaign of retaliation
for the .British blockade.
The assurances were to the effect
that only active warfare would be
conducted against enemy merchant
shipping and that non-combatant
ships of every character, freight as
well as passenger carrying, would be
accorded proper warning and safety
space to the American situation. The
Daily Chronicle says editorially:
"It Is difficult to suppose that the
German government elated by the
submarine successes of past six
weeks will accept President WMlson's
terms. Diplomatic relations between
Berlin nnd Washington will be broken
off. The resulting situation will not
be n state of war, but may easily de
velop into war. -
"This is obvious to both parties.
Mr. Wilson has counted the cost.
Presumably the Kaiser also ' has
counted it. If Germany decides that
the continuance of submarine warfare
is worth a diplomatic break with
America, it probably also will de
cide that it is worth war too.
"If the Kaiser desires to avoid war
with America he would naturally
make his concession at a stage when
they would also avoid the breaking
of telatlons.
j COLUMBUS BANDITS
. PLAbbU UIM THIAL
'- DEMING, N. M., April 19. Six
wounded Mexicans captured in El )
j Valle, were placed on trial here
j today on the charge of murder.
The state rested its case this after- j
noon and it was said that the trial !
would be short. The defense will
j attempt to show that the Mexi-
cans or some of them were Car- j
l ranza prisoners. Three others, who
are in jail here, are yet to be tried.
They were taken during the raid on
Columbus, N. M., or shortly after-
, wards. They also will be tried on
i the charge of murder.
I I
o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., April 19. Ameri
cans arriving here today from the Ba
vispe river valley in which the concen
tration of troops in eastern Sonora has
been under way for several weeks, re
port that the de facto forces are sta
tionary and are experiencing dificulty
in getting sufficient food supplies.
Ives G. Lelevier, consul of the de fac
to government in Douglas, stated today
that General Arnulfo Gomez is still in
Colonia Morelos and has no intention
of moving for the present. He denied
authoritatively that Gomez has received
any orders from General Alvaredo Ob
regon, de facto secretary of war to ad
vance into Chihuahua. Such orders
have been expected for nearly two
weeks, and their continued absence is
puzzling to the Mexican military.
General P. Elias Calles, military gov
ernor of Sonora, left Agua Prieta se
cretly, last night for Fronteras 29 miles
south, for a stay of indefinite length.
General Calles sent word to Consul
Lelevier today, however, that he wished
to rest and recuperate for a few days.
While in Fronteras he will see no one.
The consul explained that hundreds of
callers had been received at his head
quarters during his recent illness. The
excitement and constant worry serving
to aggravate the nervonsness of the
patient.
It was definitely learned today that
General Calles came-to the border on
orders from General Obregcn to remain
in close touch with American affairs
during the present crisis in the rela
tions between the two governments.
Calles explained this to several per
sons in connection with his sickness.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, April 19. Militar r
operations of the American forces in
Mexico will remain practically at
standstill until Major General Hueh
j L. Scott, chief of staff has complet
ed his study of the situation.
Two companies of the Nineteenth
Infantry left here tonight for Eagle
Pass, to relieve troops ordered from
there, but no provisions has been
made to fill the places that will be
left by other forces on the border.
General Funston expressed pleas
ures that General Scott was coming
for it would give him an opportunity
He had been ordered to the border and
could not leave until the order was
countermanded, he said. Arrivals to
day report that a new disease, the na-
I ture of which has not been determined.
but which is believed to be tvDhus. has! to
broken out in the southern part of the situation that has become so com-
Moctezuma district of Sonora. There
have been a number of deaths in Moc
tezuma and the vicinity of Cumpas.
This disease, whether or not it is
typhus, is said to be proving very con-
plex.
A report from General Pershing
was received today but its character
was not commented on by General
Funston. It Was said .there had been
tagous, few patients recovering and no material change in the military
death generally ensues a few hours af- i situation and no news regarding
ter the sickness begins. 'Villa's whereabouts.
Gavira and Garcia Still
Believe Villa Is Dead
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .equal distance from Chihuahua with
EL PASO, April 19. In spite of Which it is connected bv the Mexico
every denial and doubt and in the
face of the statement of Gov. En
riquez at Chihuahua that the story
of Villa's death was only a rumor,
General Gavira and Consul Garcia
reasserted tonight their confidence
in the truth of its finding of the
body of the bandit.
General Gavira said that he had
learned unofficially today that the
failure of Colonel Cavazos who went
to San Francisco Borja to exhume
Villa's body, to arrive at Chihuahua
was due to the fact that he had
changed his program and was taking
the body to Santa Ysaebl. The latter
town is thirty-five miles north of
San Francisco Borla and about an
Northwestern railroad. At the same
time both Gen. Gavira and Consul
Garcia expressed uneasiness over the
continued absence of direct news
from Colonel Cavazos. He is not
supposed to have had more than a
small body of troops with him and
it is feared that he may have fallen
into a trap laid for him by the Vil
listas. Interest in Villa's fate or
whereabouts has considerably waned
here in the face of the crisis between
the United States and Germany and
its possible effect in causing th
withdrawal of the troops fror
Mexico. Washington, and not Mexi
co, is the real center of interest t.
the border tonight.
