'P ' -
LA
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy Tonight.
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
I
NXJMBEB 8876.
WASHINGTON, THUBSDAY EVENING, APRIL 20, 1016.
PBICE ONEOBNT.
k
i
SNPERSANNOY
TROOPS SINCE
American Soldiers Face Mexican
Bullets in Practically All
Cities.
OBREQON ABSOLVES U.S. MEN
Carranzlsta troops arc on the
sore southward from Chlhua
has, official adrieea said today.
Their number and object were
not rerealed. They were said to
be headed In the direction of
Parral, where American Boldiors
and residents recently clashed.
By H. D. JACOBS.
ADVANCED BASE, NEAT? SA
TEVO, April 15 (via aeroplane and
motor truck to Columbus, N. M.)
Apirl 20.r-.The fight in the Parral
plaza during which an American
machine gun platoon quickly scat
tered a Mexican mob, was only tho
beginning of usual sniping warfare
encountered by the United States
forces in all Mexican cities.
(Delected by censor.)
The Americans were given a
clean bill of health in the Parral
incident by War Minister Obregon.
His official statement printed in
El Dcmocrata, of Chihuahua, ab
solved the United States troops.
The statement was concurred, in by
the Parral officials.
ATTACK UNPROVOKED.
That the attack on tho American
soldier was unprovoked, la shown In
official report to General Pershing
stating the troopers emphasized their
peaceful mission by wearing only their
pistols. (Deleted by censor)
A alone suddenly whizzed 'J tit of the'
crowd of Mexicans. Another and anoth
er followed. Several found marks. SHU
th United States soldiers made no
move toward their revolvers.
A revolver shot rang from tho Mexi
can mob. It was the signal for a fusil
lade. One of the American soldiers loll
dead. (Deleted.) The deadly
marksmanship and cool couraee of tho
Amerlcar troops drove them back.
A machine sun platoon rushed to tho
fore am In s twinkling the death-dealing
typewriters began to sing. Tho
mob ruelted and rushed pell-mell Into
tho shelter of sldo streets.
Troops Halt Progress;
Await Scott's Arrival
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., April M. Tho
lull In tho Amerlcnn expedition's prog
ress continued today whllo officers at
Fort Sam Houston prepared a detailed
report of the entire expeditionary situa
tion, to be presented to Chief of Staff
Scott, when ho arrives nt San Antonio
Friday.
In tho meantime General Pershing re
ported to Major General Funston tliut
(Continued on Second Page.)
Obregon Confirms
Villa Death Report
Bandit Chief Nursed and Buried
By Man and Woman He
Knows, He Admits.
Villi was nursed and burled by nn
nStS man and woman. In whom General
Obregon, Carranza minister of war,
has every confidence." a message to
the Mexican embassy here said.
-General Obregon has wired for
promptest confirmation of tho report of
villa J aeaui iroin a searcn pariy, com
posed of two Mexican and nn Amerlcnn
officer, who are returning from nn ex
amination of tho bandit's reputed
grave," said tho message, transmitted
trom the Mexico City foreign relations
department.
General Obregon expressed confidence.
It wns said, that Mexico's troubles. In
ternal and International, aro over..
"There are to be no moro battles,"
the dispatch quoted him. "Hereafter
the activity of tho army will be In hunt
ing down the bandits and malcontents."
The dispatch denied that Gen. Domin
go Arrleta, who arrived at Mexico City
yesterday, had made overtures to Vil
llataa. Children's Aid Bill
Passed by Senate
Relieves Those With Judgement
Against Them in Juvenile
Court of Disabilities.
Wlthru debate, the Sonato this af
ternoon passed tho bill which already
has passed th House to .relieve from
certain disabilities children who have
judgmuits of conviction for crlmo of
record against them In the District Ju
venile Court.
, Tho bill provides that no stii-h 1udg
inont shall disqualify for Jurv duty, for
holding office, or for any other public
service under tho Government: thnt no
child shall be denominated a clmlnnl bv
reason of anv such Judgment, nor shall
such Judgment be denominated n con
viction. The hjll will operate to relieve a Inise
number of youths agnlnst whom Judg
ments have been entrd In th Juvnlle
Court.
0 A ARAL
RUSSIAN ARMY IN FRANCE
PARIS, April 20. Russian troops were landed at the French port
of Marseilles today, to join the allied troops in operations
against trie Germans on tho continent.
This sensational announcement was made simultaneously with pub
lication of an army order of the day issued by General Joffre,
sending best wishes to tho first detachment of soldiers of the
Czar to fight on French soil since the beginning of the war.
Tho censor thus far has permitted no details' as to numbers to be
published, but the French newspapers assume the Russians
were landed in large force. I
They assume also they will be rushed into action cither at Verdun
or on some other sector where the allies may be contemplating
a great offensive.
"Old King Baseball"
Back on Throne Here;
Thousands Jam Park
Fans Storm Gates at Opening and Have Big Time in
Preliminaries Carnival Spirit Extends to
Players and President Wilson.
By LOUIS A. DOUGHER.
AMERICAN LEAGUE PARK. Baseball carrie into its own to
day in Washington.
After his winter's sleep the old king stirred himself this morning
and decided to get down to business. This was a signal for joy on
the part of some 15,000 Washingtonians. These 15,000 are gathered
at the ball grounds, ready to shout their heads off.
See that old fellow sitting over there? He hasn't missed an
opener in twenty years. That tall young man with him saw his first
baseball game when a mere lad, accompanying his father.
See that merry group in a box? They are sober, staid business
men downtown. In half an hour, maybe, they'll be howling fans,
They've already cleaned out two peanut boys. They're out for a good
time.
See those scholarly looking gentlemen over behind the Washing
ton bench. They belong up on Capitol Hill. Maybe they're playing
Continued on Page Twelve.
FORD HAS SLIGHT
LEAD IN NEBRASKA!
Figures So Close That Official
Count May Be Necessary.
Bryan Defeat Emphasized.
OMAHA. Neb., April 20. On returns
based on complete figures from ten
counties and partial returns from
forty-two more, Henry Kord today Is
leading Senator A. U. riiinnilna of Iowa
in the Hepubllcan preference primaries
by l.flX' votes. J'lHtlce lluglics Is a
poor third. Tho figures today were still
so cloo that official count may be
necessary to determine whether the De
troit aulomobllu magnate Is Nebraska's
choice
J.ate returns continue to cmpbaslzo
tlm defeat o' tho Uryans in their fight
for control of tho Democratic party.
.Mayor Charles W. liryan Is running
fur behind his opponent, oKlth Novill.
for the gubernatorial nomination, and
W. J. I3i van Is now soventh in the list
for c'oligatc-nt-largo to the national
convention.
Senator Hitchcock Is apparently re
nominated, having what appeara to bo
a safe lead over I. J. Dunn, who was
supported by liryan. Judge Kennedy, of
Omaha. Is well ahead of former Gover
nor Aldrlch for tho Republican Sena
torial nomination. The Republican nomi
nation for governor Is a close race be
tween Sutton and McKelVle,
LINCOLN. Neb.. April 20. Woodrow
Wilson was defeated in one precinct In
Seward county, by Robert O. Ross, pro
prietor of a livery stable. The precinct
Is German-American, and tho vote wns
to 2S- Ross, tiled himself as candidate
for both the Democratic and Republi
can nominations In the primaries.
Not a Candidate,
Says Mr. Ford
Manufacturer Declares He Is Too
Busy to Devote Any Time
to Politics.
DirrilOlT, April 20.-"You can say
positively that 1 am not a candidate for
President," Bald Henry Ford after It
had become definitely known that he
had carried the Nebraska primaries.
"I asked that my name be taken off
the Michigan ballot, and did not know
It was on the Nebraska ballot. As to
Pennsylvania, no movo on my part has
had anything to do with talk on the
subject there, and there is no reason
to believe my name will go on the bal
lot. "As a matter of fact, I have been
willing the votes should be taken be.
cause I helleve the men who voto Tor
me know 1 am not a candidate, but
take that way to show tholr disapprov
al of tho campaign for militarism.
"1 have too many other plans to work
out to bo able to devotn much time to
politics, but I do wish wo could stop
tho awful killing In that war in Eu
rope." Smith Prevents Debate
On Suffrage Resolution
eiator Hoke Smith tolny ohtectel,
nnd thiis (invented consldetatlon In the
Heiuito cil the resolution looking to a
woman suffrage aircndment to the Constitution.
IOMLEDjIDOHORT
OF
Enormous Property Damage
Also Reported From Tornado
in Kansas and Missouri.
KANSAS CITY. Mo.. April 20.-Ten
are reported dead and nearly 100 In
jured by a tornado which swept three
distinct areas In Kansas and Missouri
last night.
1'ropcrty damage In southeastern
Kansas, southwestern and central Mis
souri Is said to be enormous. Wires
are demoralized and details are meager.
Six are reported killed In Stover, Mo.,
with the town laid In ruins. A special
train carried relief to the Injured there,
A Mrs. Miller and a baby of the Hlx
on family, near Fort 8cott, Kan., were
killed when their home was destroyed.
Klmer Packard, of Kntcrprlse, Kan.,
was killed when his motor car, In
which he was trying to outrun the
storm, overturned, pinning him beneath
It.
Ituth Fairbanks, seven, was killed
when her home, near Rich Hill, Mo.,
was demolished.
An unconfirmed report said every
house In Rhinehart. Mo was destroyed
and thirty persons Injured.
The storm Is also believed to have
struck near Jefferson City, California
and Glean, In Missouri.
Starting around Fort Scott and Iola,
Kan., the twisters swathed through tho
rich country districts extending to Deep
Water. Clinton, and Rich Hill, In Mis
souri. Heavy damage was reported In Lowry
City and In Rockvllle.
Many were reportod dangorously In
jured In southeastern Kansas and
southwestern Missouri. Cities near the
stricken. districts have rushed them aid.
Vote on Gen. Smith
To Be Taken Soon
Senator Jones Serves Notice He
Wants Early ActionRe
jection Looked For.
An early vote In the Senate on the
confirmation of Gen. R. G. Smith as
member of the excise board of the Dis
trict Is In prospect.
At tho executive session last night,
owing to absence of Senator Hughes,
of New Jersey, the nomination was
passed over,
Senator Jones, of Washington gave
notice that, when tho nomination camo
up again, he would ask for a vote or
at least fixing of a day for a voto.
Senator Jones Is opposed to the con
firmation of Smith. Tho nomination was
ud'-erscly teported from tho District
committee.
Tho fact that the opposition to Smith
is enxloua for a vote Is taken to Indi
cate that his defeat is expected.
We"bbBill Indorsed.
The Webb bill making It n mis
demeanor to write threatening letters
to the President was favorably reported
today to the House Judiciary Commute.
PA
STORM
Y
IS DEFIED BY
W. R. AND E. CO
Vioe President Ham Tells House
Committee Company Won't
Co-operate With Board.
ASSAILS VALUATION EXPERT
A frank statement that the
'.shington Railway and Electric
Company would not co-operate
with the Public Utilities Commis
sion so long as Dr. E. W. Bcmis
remained as the valuation expert
of that body was made by Vice
President W. F. Ham, of the trac
tion company, to the House Dis
trict Committee today.
Mr. Ham's statement was deliv
ered as a parting thrust when the
committee concluded its hearing
on the Fairchild bill to consolidate
the Washington Railway and Elec
tric Company and the Potomac
Electric Power Company.
Throughout today's hearing
charges of lack of co-operation
were made by Engineer Commis
sioner Kutz and Corporation Coun
sel Syme.
CALLS HIM UNFAIR.
In reply to a direct question by Con
gressman Lloyd as to whether tho
compony waa co-operating with tho
Public Utilities Commission, Mr. Ham
said:
"The Publlo Utilities Commission de
stroyed all possibility of co-operation
between our company and that body
when It placed Dr. K. W. Demls In
char go of tho valuation work. Ills rep
utation throughout the country has al
ways been that he Is unfair, not prac
tical, not experienced and jinjust to
railway companies.
"Wo have made up our minds that
we will not yield to the commission
an more than wo aie actually com
pelled to yield. Wo will throw no ob
stacles In tho commission's way and
will work along as best wo can, but so
long as Dr. Bemls Is Identified with It,
there will be nono of that get-together
spirit which should characterize tho
commission's work with our company."
Corporation Counsel Syme was equally
frank In his statements to the com
mittee. Ho strongly Intimated that th
stock of the Washington Railway and
Electric Company was watered. He al
leged constant "negative opposition"
and failure to co-operate, "persistent
and consistent evasion of tho contract
between these two companies on base
less excuses." and hinted at a sinister
motive In the Introduction of the Fair
child bill at this time.
He said the Public Utilities Commis
sion Is now working on the valuation
of the property of tho two companies
continued on Paso Fourteen.)
British Cabinet
Crisis Averted
London Officially Announces That
All Differences Have Been
Settled.
LONDON, April 20.-The crisis In the
British cabinet has been averted, and
all differences settled, It was announc
cd this afternoon. An official state
ment Is being prepared, covering the
agreement on conscription.
It was officially announced that the
agreement reached by the cabinet will
be laid before Parliament at a socret
session Tuesday.
Minister of Munitions David Liovd
George apparently has' won a victory
In his fight for a form of general con
scription, applying 10 married as well
as single men.
Plan to Organize
Union of Teachers
Meeting at Central Hign This Aft
ernoon to Form Perma
nent Body.
With a vlow of perfecting a perma
nent labor organization of teachers of
the District public schools, n mrtin
of the organizers of the mlnn win im
held In the auditorium of the Central
High School this afternoon.
The nlan Is to have thn nmnAaa,! uninn
of teachers nfflllated with the American
Federation of Labor. Tho union Mill
noiu its cnatter in the federation until
such times ns thcie are enough teach
ers' organizations nil over the country
to form a National Federation of Teach
ers. H
T. V, T.fltnninn tArrtnnrnPif t. .!.
of tho organization, declared today that
lie uiuuiini me mammy or ino teachers
would Join the organization.
Austrian Envoy Leases
Summer Home L. N. Y.
PATCHOOUK. X. V.. April !P.-Baron
Erich Zwlcdlnek. in ehargo of Austrian
embassy at Washington, undisturbed by
President Wllcon's note, has leased a
summer home heie. He will movo in
late la June.
UTILITIES
BOD
Held in German Plot
To Blow Up Canal
BBBBBBBBSr 'iSBBBBBBBBBIBH
BBBBBBBBBBBBk'-'tt&MBBV H
(Copyright. Wit. Undrrwood Underwovd).
WOLF VON IGEL.
PROTECTION GIVEN
Federal and District Govern
ments Take Precautions
Against Crank Violence.
Two departments of the Government
nnd the Washington Police Department
have token extreme precautionary steps
to protect German Oovcrnment property
from crank violence.
The pollre guard at the Uerman em
bassy has been Increased. A policeman
In unirorm has been stationed nt the
door of the Uerman ombassy since the
President read his message threatening
n break In relations with the Uerman
go eminent.
(Secretary of the Navy Daniels has
rushed detachments of marines to guard
the wireless stations at Mayvlllo and
Tuckerton, which provide the only
means of communication between the
Uerman ambassador nnd his government
at Herlln.
Hecretary Daniels also has strength
ened the naval guard over the Interned
Uerman ships at Norfolk.
Tho Treasury Department has In
structed tho collector of customs at
New York to take extra precautions to
guard the Uerman liners held up at
New York slnco war began.
hecretary Daniels said It Is not true,
as reported, that tho United mates Uov.
eminent has given orders to seize the
.Soyvlllo and Tuckerton wireless sta
tlons.
In the event of a break In relations
with Germany lending to war tho
United States would seize the wireless
stations and tho Interned ships, but
mere nas oecn no step looKing to tnis
drastic action, officials said
Secretary Daniels gave the following
explanations of the orders to Increase
the murine guard at the wireless sta
tions:
"We have kept marines at these sta
tions for many montlm. The rhlef of
operations has had as many marines
thcro as he thought necessary. Ho has
now Increased this number. It may bo
nn excess of caution to haavo more
there thnn wo need. But this force of
marines Is purely n watch force."
Bryan Comes Here
To "Prevent War"
Former Premier Doesn't Know
How He's Going To Do It,
But He'll Try.
ftent upon doing what he can to pre
vent the United States from getting;
Into wnr with Germany. William Jen
nings liryan, former Secretary of State,
arrived In Washington nfter a hurried
trip from St. Louts this afternoon, and
went to tho homo of his son-in-law and
daughter, pending preparation for a
campaign In tho Interest of an amicable
adjustment of the controversy.
1 do not know of anything I can sav
or do. but as a citizen of this country
I warn to uo wnai i can on the side
of peace," declared Mr. Bryan.
"I believe the American nennln ir
overwhelming ly opposed to going Into
mis war.
"If they could vote on the proposi
tion aside from parties and persons
nlnety-nlno out of ever hundred of thorn
would vote In favor of Governmental
action warning Americans from going
on belligerent snips int tno dunger
zone.
Gerard to Give Note
To Jagow Today
President's Demands in Hands of
Ambassador in
Berlin.
By CARL W. ACKERMAN.
BERLIN. April 20.-Pre?ldoiit Wil
son's not to Germany reached the
American embassy at 11 o'clock this
niornlng, though ono section Is still
mii-slng. Ambnssudor Gcruid expects
to dellvor the nuto to Forulgn Secre
tary van Jugow this uficinoon
Km ly tod:iy nn important confidential
mcrsaui' reached the emh.isiy from
Washington. It enjoined nboluto
silence on Ambassador Gtr.ird and Sec
retary Or uw.
HAN
PROPERTY
BERNSTORFF ASKS
FOR DEFINITION OF
WILSON DEMANDS
Speculation on Germany's Probable Crisis
Guarded London and Paris Believe
Breach Certain Guards Placed at Em
bassy and Over Interned Vessels
EXPECTS NO ANSWER FOR TEN DAYS
German Ambassador
Lansing To Find How Far Submarine
Warfare Must Be Limited
Count von Bernstorff, the German ambassador, today
asked Secretary of State Lansing whether the President's
ultimatum to Germany demands immediate cessation of
all submarine warfare against vessels of commerce, or
merely abandonment of 'present methods" of warfare.
Upon the answer to this question depends the fu
ture relations of the United States and Germany.
The German government is said to be prepared to
discuss abandonment of method, but it has served notice
that it never will abandon all submarine warfare.
The ambassador obtained the Secretary's views on
such limitations as would bring German warfare in con
formation to this country's ideas of international law and
humanity.
He pointed out, it is said, that the numerous confer
ences made necessary by a complete change in policy will
entail, a delay of at least ,teq days-beforc.an'-'answer cari fte '
formdlated. :'
He expects preliminary instructions from Berlin in a
short time.
Congressional views of the possibility of a breach are
far from optimistic. Gossip in the cloak rooms of both
Senate and House indicates a feeling that the situation is
more" grave than at any time within fourteen months.
Many Senators and Congressmen called at the White
House to obtain first hand information of the President.
ASKS VON IGEL'S RELEASE.'
Renewed demands are made by the German ambassa
dor that Secretary Wolf von Igel be released by the Fed
eral authorities in New York and that all official papers
seized at the time of his arrest be returned, whatever his
slatus at the time of the alleged Welland Canal plot.
The United States has placed additional guards at the
wireless plants at Tuckerton and Sayville, over the Ger
man liners at Norfolk and other American ports, and at
the German embassy in this city.
Speculation on the probable course of Germany in
reply to the demands of President Wilson is guarded in
European capitals.
Berlin papers, pending the publication of the official
text of 'the note, which reached Ambassador Gerard at 1 1
o'clock this morning, refrain from comment, but show no
anti-American sentiment.
London and Paris journals, on the other hand, com
ment freely in approval of the President's course. Few
in those capitals believe that a breach in diplomatic rela
tions can be avoided.
London believes Germany will not attempt to over
ride home opinion by yielding, but will, followimr a breach.
so curb submarine activities as to give no further" offense
to the United States and thus avoid actual hostilities.
Approving; Telegrams
Pour in at White House
Scores of telegrams were received Kt
the White House today, practically all
of them indicating support of the Presi
dent, whatover may bo the outcome of
his negotiations with German).
Many, however, expressed tho hopo
that, even though It be found necessary
In the last analysis, to sever diplomatic
relations, actual war may be avoided.
Many Congressmen called at the
White House eager to get first-hand In
formation from the President as to how
Imminent a break with Germany may
be. A number were planning to leave
the city, but as a result of the Presi
dent's speech yesterday, did not wish
to go If trouble threatened.
Following their conferences with tho
President, all declined to express them
selves beyond saying that they still
wsre hoping for the beat.
Calls On Secretary
Among the Senators who saw the
President was Hustlng of Wisconsin,
who told the President that he believed
the people back in the country are for
avoiding war as far as possible, but that
they feel the United States has about
gono to tho limit of patience.
Senator Kern told the President that
there was every disposition on the part
of Congress to leave the President un
embarrassed In handling the crisis.
It is pointed out rtt tho White Houso
today that the controversy has shifted
entirely away from tho "armed mer
chantmen." angle as a result of the at
tack on the Sussex.
The Sussex was neither armed nor a
merchantman. She was a passenger
ferry boat, accordlnr to undisputed
testimony, plying a course never taken
by merchantmen.
