1 h ' v ' t i
1o!'1$28aoo$29!oo.Per' f,rmJ e,ectroy- J iL, T WEATHER Utah: Fair Today and &ll
Vr ' Friday. 8llahtly Warmor In North f i
I" ...-,.-, -. Portion Tonight. ''l
t ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. I , 141
forty-sixth Year J$o. 95 T-" " " . . ' . . . Wi
Hf . Price Flve Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, APRIL 20, 1916. Entered aB Second ClaBB Matter at the Postofflce, Ogdon, Utah. &
: Russian Troops Land on French Soil 1
" . . - T ' . . Hi , .
FINCH AGAIN TAKE OFFENSIVE
! IN GREAT BATTLE OF VERDUN
;
Strong Force From Czar Nicholas' Bravest Soldiers and Com
manded by Officers of Highest-Ability to Fight in French
Ranks Joffre's Men Capture Gefman Trenches,
Occupy a Redoubt and Take Several Hundred
f Prisoners French Compel (Aermans to
! Withdraw Large Forces From
'i v Other Fronts.
Paris, April 20, 1 :40 p. m. Frerrclri resistance in the re-
gion of Verdun is compelling the Germans' general staff to
withdraw large forces from the Teuton front in Macedonia
I and Serbia and in Russia, according to information obtained
todaj' from the highest military authorities here.
I The first division of the first German army corps and an-
i nother division, not yet identified, are: said 'to be among the
troops which have just been brought irom the other fronts.
; The 1 8th army corps and the 1 1 th Bavarian division, it is de-
I clared, have been brought from Serbia.
Marseilles, April, 20, noon. Russian troops began dis-
- embarking at this port at noon.
t .
i Paris, April 20. The Russians aire to fight beside the.
allied soldiers in France. A strong force of Russian troops
disembarked at Marseilles at noon today. Gen. Joffre wel-
! corned the Russians in an order of the -i'lay, saying their arrival
' was another proof of the devotion of Russia to the common
cause.
The text of the order issued by
; General Joffre follows:
"Our faithful ally, Russia, whose
;' armies already are fighting so valor
, onsly against Germany, Austria and
; Turkej wanted to give France further
assurance of her friendship; more
striking proof of her devotion to the
. common cause.
"Russian soldiers chosen from the
ljracst in her armies and command-
ed h officers of the highest renown,
ba.o come to fight in our ranks.
"You will receive them like broth-
i crs You will show them that warm
! sympathy which you feel toward
those ho leave their country to come
and fight at our sides.
I "In ihemamp of the French army, I
!' welcome the officers, under officers
i ann Boldiers of Russia who have de-
T barked in France. I bow before the
; Russian flags upon which there soon
, will be inscribed the glorious names
of our victories."
:, The Russian forces will be used to
till in gaps pn the western front
b caused bv the recent fighting.
The arrival of the Russian troops
5 Is regarded here as an event of great
importance, and of significance from
f both a military and political stand-
pemt t ,,
The Russinns came on a great no
S Ulla of transports. Not a single word
' ol theli coming was permitted to be
come generally known until they had
J actually concluded the journey and
' were landing on French soil. No ex
J act details as to the number of Rua-
slan troops are available.
A strong force of Russian troops
I landed at Marseilles today and will
? Hglit beside the allied forces in
1 France
! The Russians disembarked at Mar
I Bellies at noon today, their arrival
' being noted by General Joffre, in the
order of the day. They are believed
. to have embarked for France from
) the port of Archangel on the white
;' Sea, the only port through which
'there is free communication between
Russia and her allies In the west.
' U is considered probable that the
traneports carrying the troops made
! a wide sweep out into the North At
I Inntlc before beading for the Medi
' terranean to avoid tho submarine
danger zone In the vicinity of the
j British Isles. . .
In this connection, it is to no no-tea
that word reached New York today
: through private cable advices that
Russia had closed the port of Arch
angel to all except government trnr
flc This may Indicate that other
troop movements from Archangel to
the- western front are oltber under
- way or in contemplation-
Ambassador Gerard at Berlin has
; Teceived the American note to Ger
many. 'Ehe Berlin dispatch reporting
the arrlial of the ttote said the am
bassador was expected to present it
to the Iprcign office this nfternoon.
The IQronch again have taken the
of-fensivQ-in the Verdun battle and In
attacks against the German lines on
the right bank of the Mouse, Paris de
clared, and have captured portions of
German trenches and a redoubt and
have talcen several hundred -prisoners
According to a London dispatch, the
British Coalition government has been
given a new lease of life, a settlement
having leen reached in tho cabinet
crisis os er the question of conscrip
tion, i
A ploti of wide scope conducted for
the purpose of causing a revolution In
India is anuounced. from J-.otdojv!
have bcn uncovered as a result of
the seizure last February of German
and Aua trian subjects on the liner
China, bound from Shanghai for tho
United iStates.
ffn-ench Take Offensive.
Paris, April 20, 12:01 p. m. French
troops look the offensive last night
in the Verdun region on tho right
bank of! the Meuse. The war office
announcement of this afternoon says
that tbqy captured parts of German
trenches,, occupied a redoubt and took
several hundred prisoners.
The txt of the statement follows:
"In tbe Argoune at Haute Chevau
chee there has been some ininework
which insulted to our advantage. We
caused the explosion of a Bmall mine
which destroyed some subteraunean
works of the enemy.
"On tjhe left bank of the Meuso the
bombarllment of our second line con
tinued last night. On the right bank
of the river our troops yesterday
evening delivered a spirited attack
against, the German positions north
west of tho Pond of Vaux. This op
eration made it possible for ub to
occupy certain sections of tho Ger
man tnsnehes, aa well as a fortified
redoubt. In tho course of this action
which uiused heavy Iosbob to tho en
emy, tie took prisoner ton officers,
sixteen- under officers and 214 men.
In ariclUion to this we captured bov
eral mnchine guns and a certain quan
tity of war material.
"In Cfcie Woevre our artillery has di
rected q. concentrated fire upon the
communicating roadways of the en
emy. "Thiare has been no event of Im
portant on the remainder of the
front."
Germans Occupy British Troncheo.
Berlin, April 20, via London, 4:25
p. m British trenches for a dlBtanco
of 60d metres between Langemarck
and YwreB, Belgium, have been occu
pied fry German troops, according to
the official statement given out at
army headquarters today.
The text of tho official statement
Issued today says:
"Western front: In the Ypros sa
lient German patrols succeeded at
several pointB In penetrating the Eng
lish trencheB. In one Instance, on
the high road between Langemarck
and YpreB, they occupied about GOO
meters of the enemy's positions and
firmly maintained them against sev
eral hand grenade attacks. At this
point and near Wleltje and south of
Ypres, the number of prisoners taken
amounted altogether to one officer
and 108 men. We also captured two
machine guns.
"East of Tracy Le Mont a quantity
of gas directed by the enemy last
night against our trenches only
spread Into the trenches of the
French themselves.
Lively Artillery Fire.
"In the Meuse sector, the enemy
directed a lively artillery fire against
the positions which we had captured
from hiin on the eastern bank of the
river.
"In the Caillette wood a prepara
tory artillery fire of the enemy de
veloped toward being a strong at
tack. In a salient corner the attack
leached into our trenches. Other
wise it was repulsed with heavy san
guinnry losses. A few prisoners also
were taken. In the Woevre and In
the hills southeast of Verduri""an ar
tillery battle Is being continued with
the greatest violence by both sides
but there has been no infantry ac
tivity." oo
COUNTRY AWAITS
GERMAN REPLY
Decision in Submarine Con
troversy Rests With Imperial
Government at Berlin.
SENATE NOT TO DEBATE
No Action of Congress Called
For Discussion Unwise
Pending Germany's
Final Conclusion.
Berlin. April 20, via London,, IMC
p. m. Tho American note to Germany
arrived in Berlin late yesterday even
ing. Ambassador Gerard probably
will present it to tho foreign office
early this afternoon.
Washington, April 20. The United
States government having said Its last
word to Germany in the submarine
controversy, turned tody with gravo
expectancy to Berlin, where rests
the decision whether the Imperial
government shall abandon Its present
methods of submarine warfare or
break with Washington.
No time limit was set in the com
munication but the president Is
known to hold the opinion that three
or four days would be a reasonablo
period to allow to Germany for a de
cision. If none i forthcoming, with
in a reasonable timo the step accom
plishing a break in relations, with all
its grave possibilities, will be taken
Count von Bernstorff, German am
bassador, would receive his passports
and Ambassador Gerard at Berlin
would be Instructed to come home.
Senator Kern, majority leader In
the Benate, said at tho White Houbo
today he believed there was a general
disposition in the senate not to dis
cuss President Wilson's address on
the note to Germany. Discussion, he
aald, could do no good, and might
do barm. He added that no action
on the part of congress was called
for and he did not expect that aay
would be taken,
i Secretary Lansing Bald early today
Ambassador Gerard had not, up to
that time, notified the department of
the receipt of the American note, al
though press dispatches announced
its arrival last evening. Neither had
Mr. Gerard reported having received
from the German foreign office an
othor memorandum on the Subsox
case, as reported in press dispatches.
Whether all German consulB and
consular agents would bo dismissed
and such American consular repre
sentatives in Germany recalled in
case diplomatic relations are severed,
was discussed by state department of
ficials. It was stated that a rupture
would not necessarily extend to con
suls, although diplomatic custom gen
erally Included such officials.
Explaining the expression in the
United States "note regarding sever
ing relations altogether" it wbb offi
cially stated that the word was used
to add emphasiB to the note and also,
indicate this government's intention
to make any break complete by tho
recall of its ambaBBador and consuls
and request the recall of Germany's
diplomatic and consular officials.
Germans Hope for Settlement.
m Regarding the hope held by German
officials here for an amicable settle
ment, one official described the pros
pect as a "toBB up."
Secretary Lansing explained in de
tail to the German ambassador the
position of the United States and
is understood to have expressed the
sincere hope that the attitude of the
German government would be so ad
Justed as to meet tho position taken
by the United States.
Bernstorff for Peace.
The ambassador was understood to
have informed tho secretary, of the
details of a message he sent yester
day to his government making certain
recommendations which he believed,
if acceptable to his government,
would be satisfactory to tho United
States. In addition, the ambassador
informed the secretary of a message
of a highly confidential nature he
had received from Berlin.
Lost night Count von Bernstorfl
appeared hopeful that some way
would be found to prevent a break of
relations.
Reply In Ten Days.
After the conference It was learned
that German diplomats regard the re
ceipt of a reply from Germany within
two or three days aa physically im
possible. It was thought a reply could
not be received here before ten days.
It was pointed out that Easter Mon
day is a holiday in Germany and that
necessary consultations of officials
would cause almost another week to
elapse before the German decision
could be transmitted here.
Ambassador Sends Report.
After returning to the embassy
Count von Bernstorff prepared a long
dispatch which probably will be sent
to his government before night. The
ambassador was authoritatively repro
senten as having sought the secre
tary's views In regard to a tentative
proposal that Germany issue imme
diately a declaration covering all sub
marine operations similar to that Is
sued January 7 for the operations in
the Mediterranean.
Ambassador von Bernstorff was un
derstood to havo been impressed with
the necessity of prompt action by
Germany In his message yesterday
to Berlin tho ambassador urged that
something he done immediately.
No appointment for another confer
ence with Secretary Lansjng has been
mae by the ambassador.
oo
PARIS EXPERTS
COMPLETE BREAK
Action of Washington Will
Have Far-reaching Conse
quences Great Moral
Joy in France.
Paris, April 20, 10:35 a. m. The
text of President Wilaon's note to
Germany arrived too late for publica
tion In the morning papers, which
comment briefly on the gravity of the
situation. .
The Matin sayB:
"The action of Washington will
have far-reaching consequences for
the future of the United States.
Franoo awaits calmly the eventual
rupture. America could not give us
greater Bympathy than Bhe already
has given but we feel moral Joy to
see that noble nation break all re
lations with a nation of pirates
which precipitated tho present world
tragedy."
Tho Journal, In reviewing Amer
can events, sayB that a rupture be
tween the United States and Germany
is imminent.
Bjrjtlah Position Critical.
Constantinople, April 20, via Lon
don, 6:25 p. m. The war office an
nounces that tho position of the Brit
ish army which is being besieged at
Kut-el-Amara 1b becoming vory crit
ical and that tho British commander
has ordered the civilian population
to evacuate the town on account of
the Hcnrcity of food.
PERSHING SENDS I
A LONG REPORT
Describes Frightful Condition
of Country Through Which
American Troops Have
Passed.
PEOPLE ARE HOSTILE
Poverty-stricken Peons Gen
erally Apathetic U. S.
Forces Subjected to
Sniping.
San Antonio, Texas, April 20.
Frightful destruction of the country
through which tho American troops
have been operating south of Casos
Grandes was pictured in a long re
port received by General Funston to
day from General Pershing. The re
port was written at Satevo bofore Gen
eral Pershing had learned the details
of the fight at Parral, April 12.
General Funston refused to discuss
the character of the report except in
general terms. It was one of Gen
eral Pershing's reports on conditions
that caused Secretary Baker to send
Major General Scott to tho border, it
was said.
In the report received today. Gen
eral Pershing mentioned the hostile
attitude of the popillace at Bachinovi
displayed when Major General Howse
passed through there with a squadron
of cavalry. He said tho 'force was
subjected to sniping. For tho most
part, however, he declared, the pov
erty stricken peon element exhibited
nothing but apathy when tho Ameri
can troops passed through tho coun
try and sklrtedi villages where the
hungry inhabitants had gathered from
the war-ruined countryside.
Admiral Wlnslow Reports.
Washington, April 20. Reports to
day from Admiral Wlnslow on the
west coast Indicate that Carranza
forces in Sonora state have renewed
campaigns against Yaqui Indian out
laws in nn effective way.
In a battle April 13, near Aguas
Calientes ranch, 47 Indians were
killed. Twenty-three Carranza sol
diers were killed and wounded. An.
other clash in which 100 Indians were
killed and 200 Indians women and
children taken prisoners by tho Car
ranza forces, was reported to have
occurred a few days later at La Vir
ginia. Tho dispatches confirmed reports
of the release of two American wo
men, members of the Lehr family,
who had been held prisoners by the
Yaquls.
oo
TROOPS FIRE ON
II. S. AVIATORS
Attack American Aero
planes Several Other
Cases Reported.
General Pershing's Camp at the
Front, April 15, via Aeroplane to Co
lumbus, N. M April 20. American
aeroplanes have been fired upon sev
eral times by Mexicans and In at
least one case, the assailants were
Carranza soldiers.
The latter Instance was reported by
Lieutenant C. K. Chapman, who flow
Into camp this morning after an ab
sence of three days on what Bhould
have been, under normal conditions,
a two hours' flight.
Three nights ago, on this trip, wind
and darkneBs forced Lieutenant Chap
man to alight In the mountains about
twenty miles from here. He found
a ranch In the hills where thoMoxi
cans seemed friendly. They advised
him to sleep in the house overnight,
declaring that tho hills were "full of
Villistaa." He spent the night at the
ranchhou8e without molestation, but
next day, while near a town, -with his
machine on the ground, a trainload
of Caranza troops passed. Apparent
ly for nother purpose than to test
their marksmanship, some of these
Boldiers opened fire on the piano.
TheAiviators havo come to call this
sort of thing, "giving us a little
party."
CARRANZA TROOPS GATHER FOR II
PROBABLE ATTACK ON AMERICANS
! m 'H
Recent Report Indicates General Hostility Toward United It H
States Forces and the de Facta President Not in Full Con- m iB
trol of His Military Forces Bands of Thieves, Tab- : II
ing Advantage of Disturbed Conditions, Com- If 'H
mit Depredations at Mazatlan Felix Diaz U(,' !H
Revolution Growing. fl H
,$ M
El Paso, April 20. The six Villistas placed on trial at ' l
Deming, N. M.esterday, charged with killing Chas D. Miller JH
in the Columbus raid, today were found guilty of murder in i''nH
the first degree, according to word received here. The jury ' rH
was out 30 minutes. . V 'H
El Paso, April 20. Francisco Villa passed through Troya , R H
about 25 miles east of Parral, two days before the engagement HlfcH
between Americans and Carranza troops, reports received iljl
here today said. I JiH
Washington, April 20. Official ad
vices to the state department today
noting recent movements of Carranza
troops from Chihuahua, to tho Parral
region caused concern among admin
Istration officials. The dispatches ex
pressed the opinion that the move
ment was Intended as a hint to the
American forces that they might ex
pect at least a show of opposition if
they sought to penetrate farther into
Mexico than their present position.
It was added, however, that there
was every indication" that the move
ment was made without tho knowl
edge of General Carranza.
No estimates as to the number of
men Involved was communicated. Of
ficials here, however, basing their
figures on previous reports aB to the
strength of various Carranza garri
sons in the vicinity believe it could
not have exceeded 1500 men. Accord
ing to the dispatches It was the pur
pose of the commander, who ordered
the move, to establish tho force
south of the most advanced position
of General Pershing's troops near
Parral.
Carranza Not In Full Control.
The most important aspect In the
official viewpoint here, it waB inti
mated, Ib tho indication that the de
facto government has not full control
over all its" military forces.
It was learned authoritatively that
the United States has already ac
knowledged through Special Agent
Rodgers at Mexico City the receipt
of General Carranza's note suggest
ing the withdrawal of the American
troops. The instructions to Mr. Rodg
ers went some days ago. General
Carranza was informed that his ar
gument was being given most serious
consideration.
Brigandage In Mazatlan.
Another message today told of ad
ditional brigandage in the Mazatlan
region which Americans are leaving.
The disorder was described as due to
bands of thieves taking advantage of
disturbed conditions.
General Carranza, the department
has been informed, has framed a new
mining law making somo concession
to tho mining companies. It is be
lieved by those who have studied its
dotallB here, that it will not prove
satisfactory to mining interests gen
erally. The tax law of March 1, 1915,
is leplaced under the new law.
DlazRovolutlon Growing.
Tho state department has received
information tending to show that the
Felix Diaz revolutionary movement Is
growing in importance.
Field Headquarters, April 16, via
Aeroplane to Columbus, N M., April
20. An American army officer was
fired upon thiH evening while passing
a small town near this camp in com
pany with a dispatch bearer. The
shooting was without effect An in
vestigation was made.
A cavalry trqop today ocated tho
camp of Candelario Cervants, a Villa
lieutenant, in the mountains some
miles from here. Apparently Cervan
tes' outposts were able to give him
word of the American approach, but
his escape was narrow. Seven horses
were taken in the mountain camp.
Three Mexicans found In that vicin
ity were brought under custody to
headquarters to be questioned.
Inspired Villa Attack,
Oorvantea had been credited with
being one of the men who Inspired II i
Villas attack upon Columbus, N. M. lM
His presence in the mountains was rH
v discovered through his custom of vis- I. H
itlng a young woman in a town near . 1
ono of. the American lines. From jfl '
Mexicans In that town, information H
was obtained establishing the location H
of Cervantes' trail. H
Although the Americans did not see "' H
his command the VUlista waB report- m M
ed to have about 75 men. They made H
no attempt to stand against the Ameri- M
cans. H H
" t iT'7
San Antonio, April 20. Early with- j . .H
drawal of the troops sent into Mex- r.l
lco aB a punitive expedition, or the K'fl
authorization of military operations JtH
on a large scale, must be the result r'1?i'l
of General Hugh L. Scott's investiga- 'i-iM
tion of the situation in the opinion !KV''B
of army officers here. General Perah- tC!?H
ing 1b not pushing hie campaign ' &.iH
against Villa and will not until he 'vll
gets from headquarters authority and ; HH
facilities' to operate more freely. Of- j
fleers here believe the facts in the v ------
case, showing the futility of extend- v
ing operations along the existing j H
lines, will convince Secretary Baker's ty ;
envoy of the hopelessness of further '
pursuit unless the commanding offl- Jl
cer in Mexico is given moro effective I 'M
backing. I
Villa, If he is yet alive can lie .1 '
caught, officers here believe, but only (I fH
by the adoption of a plan that Mexi- f"i :H
cans generally almost certainly WAJB
would characterize bb a war. Army ? V iH
officers are convinced further opera- M 'M
tlons must be undertaken with the ' 1 T
understanding that armed opposition ,1' jf
from both factions will be met. iH
General Pershing Is holding Intact I '"! H
his 10,000 men stretched from Colum- ! ( M
bus to points almost 400 miles from : H
the border. The mobile cavalry de- j j f
tacbments that have been scouring M
the .district beyond Satevo, now are ; v
in easy communication with the main i ' jM
column and will hold their positions H
for tho present. ' H
General Pershing has sent through I? , M
several roports in the last forty-eight jH
hours, but General Funston has made -H
none of them public. M
Army Bases Being Strengthened. H
New York, April 20. While the , ! -H
American punitive expedition Is mark- t.
ing time today in its pursuit of Fran- 1 H
cisco Villa, efforts are being made to -H
strengthen the army bases and lines M
of communication. Fears are openly iM
expresed by army officers that should if A l
any order come to withdraw the Amer- lm H
lean troops, the Villista and other 9 'H
marauding bnds will raise the cry 'M H
that tho American troopa are in re- Sil
treat, with the result that the Ameri- w!H
can army will be subject to constant !iH
night attacks and sniping as they re- MiH
tire from Mexico. :1l 1
To prevent such warfare agalnBt his ' '9
columns, General Pershing is prepar- lfl,
ing to be in a position to inovo his ( 'Ll
forces in largo units. If necessary, , HIH
Gen. Pershing-may call upon some of i tflH
the new troops that Major General i t9--i
Funston has recently transferred to 'I.H
the army base at Columbus. The be- vB
llof is general at Fort Bliss that the H
United States troops will encounter j w
more difficulties in a withdrawal from Ih-H
Mexico than thoy did on their rapid ,VH
(Continued on Page 7.) MMI
-- v r
paSi, OPENING ' I
I Today-12 o'clock noon to 9 p. m. i I
I 2378 WASHINGTON 2378 WASHINGTON , J 1
It l j M
1 JH
---Hi----------------i-B--l-------- i
- ?MJ3sM
