O " n F'T!
mm
i m 1 ,i
tt
SUE K:M1.i ii W ini
' V I-'
I r
Hit,
v Yi 1
vj'd e.-iii a U y k t; U ii u
tx
WEATHER REPORT
OKLAHOMA: Wrdiiuday unti
tled, colder in wt portion; 'Inura
day probably rain and redder.
Tl L.SA, April lrt Tin tempera,
ture: Mailiiiuni 79, minimum 39,
Southerly wluiN and partly cloudy.
PROSPERITY TALK
Thoe TuU oil cwnrerni wer
jfr;uitfd rhurtiTM yeterUy, th in
mr.orution gnit tha trio
jnfntinr $:i.i,uuO. The rumpaii ii
art irr mt 1 Uy mt-n who live nd
(M'tut their money right here, loo.
1E1"E it iois
jrojsisrxjyrcj
OL. XI, NO. 185
TULSA DAILY WOULD, THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1910
10 PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTS
if II l
' ! Ml i: i r iV ." ' . 1
. f ,-, ! Y . , a
hi U J l; It tr. r i '-. r i-i i, v
tt " tt
y u L ii u U 0
tt
innl
M iv A ill
I M
II
-J u
i
4
K4
U. S. SOLDIERS
AT STANDSTILL
IN VILLA HUNT
Remain Inactive While Re
ports of Villa's Death
(J row Consistent.
ANSWER TO CARRANZA
TO BE FILED AT ONCE
If (Jerman Situation Crows
More Aeute All Troops
Mav Be Withdrawn.
MEXICO CITV, April 19. Accor.!
inif to messaKcs received here,
evidence confirmatory of tho death of
I'rumilnco Villa is belnif lowly eath
eied. Offifiuls are now more disposed
to give credit, to the first reports ol
tho finding of the grave of the ban
dit. ' One report toduy suid that the
I nil in ns who hud cared for Villa dur
itiK 'his last illness had oetn located
nd depositions taken. According to
these affidavits. Villa died of blood
poisoning. At the foreign office full
credit is attached to the stutementa of
these Indiana.
Say Villa Ixad.
KI. I'ASO, Tcxus, April 19. In
,Mfiif of every denial and doubt, and
Jt the (ace ol the statement ot uov-
"tnior Kniiiiiio!: at I'hihuahua, that the
nlory of Villa's death was only u
rumor, O'lieral tiavlra and Consul
iarcia reasserted toniglit their confi
d nee in the truth ol the (Inding of
the body of the bandit.
vJcneral (Javira said ho had learned
unofficially today that the failure of
Colonel Cuvhkoh, who went to San
lioi.ia to exhume Villa'a body, to ai
rio at CiiMhuirlachlc was duo to the
fact that he had clnnBod his program
and was taking tl e body to banta Vsa
liel. The latter town is 3o miles norlh
or San Hor.ta and about an eiml dis
tance from Chihuahua, with which
It is connected by the Mexico North
western railway.
At the same time both General
Guvira and Consul Garcia expressed
uneasiness over tho continued absence
of direct news from Colonel Cavazos.
He is not supposed to have had more
than a small body of troops with him
and it is felt that he may have fallen
Into a trap laid for him by tho
Villistas.
Interest in Villa's fate or where
abouts has considerably waned here
in the face of the crisis between the
I'nited States and (lermuny and. its
possible effect in causinK the with
drawal of the troops from Mexico.
Washington and not Mexico, Is the
real center of interest to tho border
tonight.
omilals Inactive.
WASHINGTON'. April 19. No dc
,1sion as to withdrawal of American
ft'i.miH from Mexico is cxnected for a
feeek or ten days unless thero are new
outureaKS against ine lorcrs in ri
Ico to compel immediate action. This
was made clear today when Secretary
(Continued on I'nfre Two.)
PEACEFUL HENRY IS
NEBRASKAN'S CHOICE
Aula Manufacturer tivtn ltigni-st
Preferential Vote Aiiioiik
Itcpiilillcnns.
OMAHA, Neb., April 19. Henry
Ford received the preferential vote of
S'chrasku Republicans In yesterday's
state-wide primary, according to the
returns received up to noon today.
Senator A. Tt, Cummins and Justice
Charles K. Hughes are apparently tied
for second place. All of the men
e'ected as delegates at hirfre to the
Republican national convention are
Bald to favor Hughes.
William J. Hrvan. candidate for
delegate at lnnre to the Democratic
national convention, polled the lowest
vote of the seven men runnlnK In this
(liouglusi coun'y, and Is apparently
Ion. in in the race In J.ancastei t Lin
coln!, his home county.
STATE FAIR GIVES
ONE DAY TO TULSA
MKcmls r 2M Is Date Solii-Uil; Will
Hun i:A'iiiin from
Here.
Secretary W. A. Rayson of the
Retail Merchants' association ye-iter-day
received word from 1. S. Muhan,
Becretary of the Oklahoma State Fair
t Oklahoma City, that tho board of
directors had designated September
as "Tulsa Pny" at tlio fair. The
.uctlon was taken In response to a let
ter from Mr. Rayson asking that this
be done In the Interest of the move
ment to promote hnrmony between
Tulsa and Oklahoma City.
It Is planned to run a special train
from Tulsa to the capital on this day
and have a big; celebration on the fair
grounds. This trip will supplant the
animal trade excursion to Oklahoma
Xty. the first of which was held last
year.
In his letter to the local secrelary,
Mr. Mahan stiys' "We will give this
matter the widest publicity and do
everything In our power to entertain
the good people of Tulsa on this occasion."
t
HA V EXT HI
:ceivkd
rE ix ;ekmaxy.
XOTE
BERLIN, April 19. (1 p. m..
via London d-'ii p. m. Not a i
I line of telegraphic news on the I
I forthcoming American note or I
German-American relations has
( been printed hero since a brief j
bulletin yesterday afternoon an- f
nounclng that the note was I
reudy. The Otrman authorities, I
who have had unfortunate ex- I
I periences with unofficial fore-
I casts und summaries of rarlier I
notes on which unfriendly com- I
I ineut in Germany was based, I
I have tal'.cn measures to Insure I
I that nothing shall be published I
I until the full authentic text of I
the latest communication from
t Washington is available The
I American embass at this hour I
has received no part of th note.
............... ...4
WON'T RELEASE IGEL
NOR GIVE UP PAPERS
U. S. District Attorney
Marshall Turns Down
Demand of (iennans.
IGEL STILL IN JAIL
Only Those. Papers Will Be
Returned That Are
Marked "Official."
NKW V')itK, April 19. Wolfe von
I gel ot be relcused from
custody and only a purt of the docu
ments s.cizcd at the time of his arrest
oil a charge of being implicated In a
plot to destroy the Welland canal, will
be returned lo the German embassy,
I'liili'd States Attorney II. Snowdcn
.iarshall declared tonight. HIk state
ment was made in explanation of the
latest phase of the tangle that fol
lowed the arrest of the former sec
retary ol Captain Cranz von I'm pen,
reculled German military attache, uml
who is now declared by Ambassador
von Rernstorlf to lie an attache of
the German embassy.
"When the ambassador's protest
reached my fl'ice, the only question
to lie decided was whether von lgel
was a member of the Germun ambas
sador's stalf on the date of the crime
charged," said .Mr. .Marshall "I was
able Immediately lo report in the ncg
utie. "The ciinie von I,rel is churgcu with
took place during September. 1914. It
was not until Ijcccmlier, 19ia, that
Ambassador von llernstoilf presented
von Igel's name as a member of his
(dlicial family. I doubt if von lgel
proved acceptable, and it is my opin
ion that he never has been legally a
member of the Germany embassy
staff."
Already Itml liistrin'lioiis.
Regarding the documents seized,
the return of which was demanded by
County von Ucinstorif, denial was
made by Air. .Marshall that he had ro
ccivod Instructions lo turn them over
to the German embassy.
"1 was instructed early today to
forward to Washington papers de
scribed as 'official by Count von
licrnstoi II." the district attorney said.
"Not desiring to take upon myself the
lesponsihility of deciding which of the
papers were 'official.' I sent for fac
simile photographs ol a. I tl.e papers.
The ort;iiuils are locked in my safe
Only such papers as Count von IJcrn
storff designates as 'nlliciiir on in
specting the facsimiles wi!l be re
turned." Air. Marshall asserted mere was no
basis for protest ugamst ilis reten
tion of the papers on tho ground that
they were obtained through i viola
tion of German territory. Von lgel
(ontended that his office was a
I ranch of the Germany embassy.
CANADIAN IS DEAD
AFTER 36-DAY FAST
HOT SPRINGS. Ark.. April 19.
J. R. Strutton of I'eterboro, On
tario, Canadu, died here today after
thirty-six days of fasting, and Pro
fessor K. Feige, formerly of Okla
homa City, under whose treatment
Stratton was prohibited from receiv
ing anything but water, was arrested
uml held by tho coroner's jury In the
sum of $1,000 bail for manslaughter.
Professor Fiege, it was testified by
his widow and nurse, Richard Kills,
had been treating Stratlon since
March. Last Friday local physicians
were called in, but their efforts could
not save his life. When the local doc
tors were summoned Stratton had
been 74 hours In a state of constant
hiccoughs, which Feige had endeav
ored to stop by tightening a belt
around Stratton's waist so tight that
his wife removed it to ease her hus
band's suffering, she said at the in
quest today. Stratton had served for
25 years in the Canadian parliament
and wus regurded as a leader in po
litical affairs In Ontario.
Last Friday Feige was arrested for
practicing medicine without a license
and was out on 11,000 ball when he
was arrested today on the manslaugh
ter charge.
Scll.l Olll OIlHHT.
NKW YORK, April 19. Army re
crulting headquarters sent out an
automobile today loaded with uni
formed soldiers to arouse Interest in
military service. The cir carried n
captain, a quartermaster-sergeant, a
corporal and a prtvrle who made
speeches wherever they could guther
a crowd. Army officers said recruit
ing here Is confronted with disadvan
tages not existing elsewhere.
American N die Containing the
Ultimatum Is Now on Its Way
American Official Note Which
May Bring Break With Germany
WASHINGTON, April 19. The text of the American 1111:0 lo Ger
many, signed by Secretary Lansing and addressed lo A nib israi'or
Gerard at Berlin, follows:
"You are Instructed to deliver to the cciet.ir ot foreign affairs
a communication reading as follows:
"I did not fall to transmit Immediately, by telegraph to iny gov
ernment, your excellency's note ot llio loth instant in regard to certain
attacks by German submarines, und p irtli itlarly in rct;aid to the d s
astrouB explosion which on .March '2 last wrecked the i'roi.rh steam
ship Sussex In the KiutIIhIi 1 hauncl. 1 have now the honor lo deliver,
under instructions from inv government, Iho iollowltiK icpiy lo your
excellency:
"Information now In the .jossi sslou of I he gov eriiiiuul of the I'nited
States fully establishes the facta in the ease ol the Sussex and the in
ferences which my government lias diawn from tliul information It
regards as confirmed bv the circumstances set lortli in .v mil txc.e IU nrv'f
note of the 10th. On the IMlh of March, !9Ki, at about :!:iil) o'clock 111
the afternoon, the unarmed steamer Sussex, with H.'.l or more pnsscngi rs
on board, among whom were 11 number of American ciii.en:, was tor
pedoed while crossing Irom Folkestone to libppv. Thu Sussex had
never been armed; was a vessel known to be habitually used only foi thu
conveyance of passengers across the l'hi:.'!ish channel and was -lot fol
lowing the route taken by troop ships 01 supply sMm. Abou eighty of
her passengers, noncomhatants of all ag's and sexes including citizens
of the I'nited States, were killed or injured.
Impartial IntcMiiMlimi.
"A careful, detailed and scrupulously impartial iiieestigatx n by naval
and military officers of the I'nited States has conclusively established
the fact that the Sussex was torpedoed without warning or summons to
surrender and that the torpedo by which she was struck was of lerman
manufacture. In the view of tho govcrnmenl of the t'niler States these
fuels from the first made the conclusion that the torpedo was lired by a
German submarine unavoidable. It no-.v considers that conclusion sub
stantiated by the statements of your excellency's note. A Hill statemtnt
of the facts upon which the govcrnmenl of lie I'-nted Stales has bused
its conclusion is inclosed.
Ilasls of Coiilenllon.
"The government of the 1 Mted States, alter li.iv.ng given considera
tion to the nolo of thu lmpciial government of the 10th of April, riigrets
to statu that the impression made upon it by the statements and pro
posals contained in that note is that the imperial government has failed
to appreciate the gravity of the situ itloii which has icsullcd, net alone
from the attack on the Sussex but from the v. hole method and character
of submarine warfare as disclosed by tho unrestrained practice ot the
commanders of German undersea craft during th past I- mouths und
more, In the indiscriminate destruction of merchant vessels of all sorts,
nationalities und destinations.
"If the sinking ot the Sussex had been an Isolated case tne gov
ernment of the I'nited States might find 't possible to hope that the offi
cer who was responsible for that act I111 1 wilfully violated his orders or
had been criminally negligent in taking none of the precautions they
prescribed, and thut the ends of justice might be satisfied by imposing
upon him an adequate punishment couplnd with i formal disavowal of
the act and payment of n suitable indemnity by the Imperial government,
liut, though the attack upon the Sussex was manifestly Indefensible and
caused a loss of life so tragical as to make it stand forth as one o: tho
most terrible examples of the iiilriinanit v of submarine warfare us the
commanders of German vessels are condti. ting it, it unhappily docrt not
stand alone.
tlach Hclilvratc,
"On the contrary tne government of the fnitcd States Is forced by
recent events to conclude that it is only one instance, ven though one of
the most distressing Instances, ot the deliberate intlli id and snirit of
(Continued on
Conclusions Set
Out in Appendix
In view of authenticated facts there
ran be no reasonable doubt but that
the Sussex was torpedoed and that
the torpedo was of German manufac
ture. As no vessel was seen by any
person on the Sussex the conclusion is
Irresistible that the torpedo was
luunched without warning from a
submarine which was submerged at
the time of the attack and remained
beneath the surface after the explo
vlon. The conclusion thus reached from
the evidence (the affidavits being
those of American citizens) collected
hu the department of state Is sub
stantiated by the statement in the im
perial government s note of April io,
1916. According to those statements:
(a) A Germun submarine tor
pedoed a steamer one and one-half
miles southeast of I'.ullrock bank.
Department's comment: The point
of uttack Is exactly in the course
which was taken by tho Sussex after
passing Onngeness and about one
half mile from the place where the
captain of the Sussex states ho was
torpedoed;
(b) The attack took place at 3:65
o'clock p. m., central Kuropcan time.
Department's comment: 3:55 p. m.,
central Kuropean time would corres
pond to 2:D5 p. m. western Kuropean
tmte. The time of the striking of tho
torpedo, according to the captain of
the Sussex and the stopping of the
clocks on board thr vessel was 2:50
p. m., western time.
(c) The torpedo when It struck
caused an explosion which tore away
the whole foreshlp up to the bridge.
Department's comment: The fore
part of the Sussex wus wrecked as far
back as the first water-tight bulk
head, according to official reports.
(d) Tho German submarine was
submerged when the torpedo was
launched and there Is no statement
that it cume to the surface after the
attack.
Department's comment: The con
clusion was reached that the sub
marine was submerged from the fact
that no one on the Sussex saw a sub
marine though tho weuther was fine.
(e) No warning was given anl no
attempt was made to give one since It
is not mentioned.
Department's comment: The evl-
(Contlnued on Pago Two.)
I IIKLIEVEK IX A
i STITC H IX TIME
I
I WASHINGTON, April 19. I
t Senator Phelan, Democrat, of
California, today Introduced a
t Joint resolution to reaffirm the t
t belief of tho I'nited States in I
( peaceful settlement of Interna-
I tinnal disputes notwithstanding i
( the proposed Increuses In the
I army and navy. Senator Stone, I
t chairman of the foreign relu- t
I Hons committee, however, pre-
t vented Its immediate conslderu- I
I tlon by an objection. I
I i
Page Five.)
Comments From
Leading Papers
DALLAS Tl M KS-H KR A LD Presi
dent Wilson has tuken a stand In
the interests and ideuls of the whole
nation. There is but one thing for
the people to do stand by our presi
dent. Dallas Morning News The presi
dent's uddress to congress Is in reality
nn address to tha country and to the
world. Without reciting the indict
ment of Gcrmay the people
of the I'nited States feel, if unhappily,
they must go to war with Germany, at
least they have exhausted every hon
orable, means of averting thut
calamity.
The Oklahonian Whether Germany
is to lose the only friend she now has
umoug the major nations of the world
will be determined by Germany's
actions following the receipt of the
note. There can be no
doubt but thut the note is un ulti
matum and finul word from tho
United States relative to Germany's
barbarous submarine warfare.
San Antonio Light President Wil
son has finally said to Germany what
he should have said immediately aft
er the sinking of the Lusltnma. While
the text und spirit of his message to
congress will be uppluuded by the
American people, 11 is a question If
his greut delay in approaching any
thing like positive action has not
not heavily discounted anything he
may say. The danger of the situation
lies in tho fact thut Germany may be
lieve that this note meuns no more
than those that preceded it.
Kansas City Star President Wil
son has waited with Infinite patience,
in the hope that the Intolerable con-
Iditlon would be remedied. There is
1 still a possibility that Gerinuny may
recognize tne correctness of the
American position. All Americans
must hope for this outcome. Hut if It
should not come, the president can
count on the bucking of a united
America.
Baltimore Sun There nre only two
types of men who could follow the
course Wilson has adopted: Tho first
Is the weak, oplnlonless, Invertebrate
fellow who in no circumstances can
muke a decision. The second Is the
man of exceptional strength and de
termination. If Germany has suspect
ed the president of the United States
to be of the former class she will be
quickly made to reullze her mistake.
I Clcvcluiid leader The meaning of
1 this message to Berlin Is plain. It can
1 not be misunderstood. The president
j has spoken too strongly now to full
1 back Into a maze of diplomatic cor
' rcspondenre. Congress will support
'the president. The country will stund
' by its official representatives.
! Muskogee Phoenix A masterful
! analysis of the situation. The lun
, guuge is extremely courteous, unnec
; essarily so it seems to us, but forre
' fill The president has pursued the
only possible course open unless ho
should choose to beat an ignominious
1 retreat. This, ns we understand It, and
' rightly, Is the lost word.
CHARGE EDUCATOR
RAISED WARRANTS
.1. W. 'oocr Is Now In .fail Pending
Arraignment Itcforc the Hur
and Muklug llonil.
Miiffial to Tho World.
M'AI.KSTKIi, April 19.- .1 W.
Cooper, former president of the Pitts
burg county teachers association, for
mer superintendent ol the Sunduy
school ot tho First Clirlslian church
In McAlester and now a member of
the executive committee of the Ok
lahoma teachers association was ar
rested this ul'tcrnoon on charge of
raising school warrants cm! defraud
ing tlie county and school districts mil
ol approximately $1,000. II Is alleged
that from 15 to 20 warrants nave been
raised by Cooper in I he lusl II
mouths. One for 4 0 icnts was raised
lo fiOO. Cooper is in tlie county Jail
pending arraignment ami 11 111 s ol
bond.
The Speech That
Congress Heard
The president said:
"Gentlemen of tho congress: A
situation has arisen in th foreign re
lations of the country of which It Is
my plain duty lo Inform y 11 very
frankly. It will bo recalled that In
February, 1915, the Imperial Germun
government announced its Intention
lo treat the waters sui roiindinir Great
l'.rltain and Ireland as embraced with
in tho se'nt of war mill to destroy
all merchant ships owned bv its ene
mies that might be found within any
rut rt of that portion ol the high seas
und that It warned all vessels if neu
tral us well us ol belligerent owner
ship to keep oul of the wulers It had
Ihus prescribed or else enter them
nt their peril. Th government of
the I'nited States earnestly protested.
.1 took the position thut such u policy
could not be pursued without Un
practical certainty of gross und pnl
puble violations of the law or nations,
particularly if submarine iralt ,vere
to be employed us Its Instruments, In
asmuch lis the rules founded on prin
ciples of humanity und established for
the protection of the lives of iioneoni
batantn lit sen, could not in the nature
of tho case, be observed by such ves
rels. It based Its protest on the
groiindi that persons of neutral na
tionality and vessels or neutral own
ership would be exposed to extreme
and Intolerable risks and thai no right
to close any part of the high seas
against their use or lo ex ose them
to such risks could lawfully be as
serted by any belligerent government.
The law of nations in ll ese matters,
upon which the goyi rinnent of the
I'nited Slates based its protest, is not
of recent origin or founded upon
merely arbitrary principles set up by
convention. It Is bused, on the con
tra ly. upon inanircat and Imperative
principles of humanity and has long
been established with the approval
and by the express assent of all civi
lized nations.
lYomiscs Xnl Kepi.
"Notwithstanding the earnest pro
test of our government, the Imperial
Germun government at once pro
reeded to carry o-ut the policy it hud
announced. It expressed tlie hope that
the dangers Involved, lit any rate, the
angers to neiilrul vessi Is, would be
reduced to a minimum by the Instruc
tions which It had issued to its sub
marine commanders and assured the
government of the I'nited States that
Jit would take every possible precau
tion, both to respect tne rimns 01 neu
trals and to safeguard tho lives of
nonconibatiints.
"What actually happened In the
eor which has since elapse.l has
shown thnt those hope were not iustl
fled, those assurances Insusceptible ot
(Continued on Page Ten.)
SPY SUSPECTS SAY
THEY ARE TEACHERS
Vet Military Officers Say
Important Maps V
rri
'ound
Ull -liniii.
SAVANNAH. Gu., April 19 Two
of the three men arrested at Hardee-
villo, 8. C, vesterday and held on sus
I ptclon when, it is alleged, maps of
l great military Importance were found
on their persons, today declared they
tare teachers In the New York public
I schools. They asserted that Acting
1 Superintendent Straubenvllle of the
1 New York city schools could Identify
them.
Ono of the men, bonis t .oiuuerger,
asserted thut he was a professor In
the Itrunswlck school in Brooklyn,
whllo Frank Plckelsky claims to be
connected with the Dewitt-Cllnlon
school. The other man gave his name
as Mark Murkeet.
The men were ur rested at the In
stigation of Lieut. A. P. Cronkhlte of
the United States engineering corps,
who asserts that they hud been fol
lowing his party, which is engaged In
making military maps, for several
days. They were arrested on a charge
of vagrancy, but each produced 15,000
to refute thin and tlie charge was
changed to that of being "suspicious
characters."
On Germany's Reply Will
Hinge Future Course of
AclionofU.S. Government
Is Dispatched After Wilson Ones Before Congress and
Outlines Course of Action; Leaders Admit That
Severance of Relations Is Likclv Result.
NOTE TAKES UNEQUIVOCAL STAND FOR U.S.
(Jerniany Must Make Reparation and Adopt Another
Plan of Suhniarine Warfare or Suffer the Conse
quences; Wilson Demands an Karly Reply.
WASHINGTON, April 19. Prcmdent Wilson's loiiflr expected
final wiiming to Ueriiuiny tliut the I'nited States will break off
diplomatic relations unless she abandons her present methods of
submarine warfare and immediately declares her intention to do so,
whs delivered today in a note to licrlin and was announced by the
president in an uddress to a joint session of congress. The (res
ident demands notliino; less than tlie abandonment of submarine
warfare against commerce.
Both the president's address and the American note declare in
uiiiMpiivocal terms that only by (iermany acceding to the demand
tan the breaking off of relations altogether be prevented.
The president considers that the next step depends solely upon
(iermany and that three or four days constitute a reasonable time
for n ply. He is willing to discuss how submarine WHiTare may
be conducted within the limits of international law and humanity
after Germany abandons her present methods.
Diplomatic history records but one instance ns yet where a
breaking of relations between two first class powers has not eventu
ally brought war that which now exists between Germany and
Italy-
Congress Concerned.
Congress received the president's declaration of his course with
mixed evidences of concern and approbation. Most of the leaders,
Democrat and Republican, thought the president hardly could do
less and some expressed the opinion that his action would not lead
to war. Republican Leader Mann alone of all the opposition
leaders openly attacked the president for his stand. He charac
terized it as a political play.
President Wilson's words leave no opportunity for double menn-
Jn his address to congress
lllg.
SUCCESS ATTENDS
HOME VISITATION
Kind Fifty-four Per Cent
of Tulsans Are Mem
bers of Churches.
2,000 IN MOVEMENT
Visitors Find City Has
Passed Forty Thousand
Mark in Population.
UND F.l l the leadership of J. Shrcve
Durhum. bucked by every Prot
estant, Catholic and Jewish church In
tho city, the Tulsa Home Visitation
was accomplished yesterday ufter
noon und proved successful even be
yond Mr. Durham's expectations.
Tulsa responded (o the call and
presented un overstipply of visitors
for the leaders to assign throughout
the city und neither yestcrduy nor
at uny time during the campaign wus
there uny lack of workers or interest
displayed.
Acocrdlng to figures compiled from
Information gleaned by tho visitors,
there ure now more tliun forty thou
sand people residing in this city. Ac
curate estimates place the number of
pcoplo visited und interviewed at
37,000.
Many Are Members.
The most startling thing brought to
light by the census was the fact thut
(Continued on Page Two.)
TKDDY iin'S Alt KANSAS VOTE
Progressives I'roin Arkuiisas Lined up
for Hooscvclt.
LITTLK HOCK. Ark.. April 19.
Nine delegates a'ld nine alternates to
the Progressive nutional convention
will lie elected it the stato convention
to be held In Ll'.tle. Hock tomoirow. J.
A. Comer, chairman of tho Progressive
unto central committee, toiluy said
"hat It Is probaole that the delegates
will be uninstructed. but that all will
he Hoosevelt men. He said that to
morrow's convention will adopt a reso
lution that will have to do with con
solidation ith the Hepubllcan party,
but declined to predict the nature of
the resolution.
he sad:
I have deemed 11 my duty to say
to the Imveiiul German government
that If It Is still Its purpose to prose
cute relentless and indiscriminate
warfare, the government of tha
I'nited Stales is at last forced to the
conclusion that there Is hut one
course it can pursue; and that un
less the Imperial German govern
ment should now, immediately, de
clare und effect un abandonment of
its present methods of warfare
against passenger und freight-currying
vessels this government can have no
choice but to sever diplomatic rela
tions altogether."
The Note to Merlin declares:
Note Is I'.xpl'clt.
"The government of the I'nited
States bus been very patient It
has ueeepted the successive explana
tions u lit! assurances of the imperial
government us. of course, given In
entire sincerity and good faith, and
has hoped even against hope thut it
would prove to be possible for tho
imperial government so to order and
control the ac:s of Its naval com
manders us to sipinre Its policy with
the recognized orlnclples of human
ity as embodied In the law of nations.
(Continued on Tage Two.)
HARRY K. WILL
BOB UP AGAIN
PITTSIIt'llGH, April 19. John W.
Thomus, master appointed to take
testimony in the suit of Harry K.
Thaw against his wife, F.velyn Thaw,
today recommended to the court thut
Thuw be grunted a divorce und the
decree wus ordered by the court.
STATE TROOPS TO
QUELL RIOTING
HAX'IINGS ON HIDSON. N. Y..
April 19 Murti.il law wus d"dareJ
in effect within the limit.-) of Hastings
village and nt'ilo troops were culled
muni for duty utter rioting had as
sumed serious proportions among the
strikers ot the Nutional Conduit -e'able
Co. A mob uttacked the com
pany's plant with bullets and stones.
Capitalist Suicides.
NKW YOKK. April 19. Yzuuck
Andenburg, a prominent resident of
Baltimore, chairman of the board of
directors of the Gulf States railway
and president of the Arkansas Harbor
Terminul company, committed suicide
ut a local hotel here today by shoot
ing himself through tho temple. Bus
iness associates said they knew of no
motive for his act, which was dis
covered by J. S. Pyatt, president of
the Gulf States rullvvuy, who was a
guest ut the suine hotel,
Tlie Score.
"What's all this?"
"That's the golf score of a newly
engaged couple. They went around In
forty-five kisses an dt7 hugs."
1
