T .' c t ymrr'U r T mm -w-- r, .4" 4Ui
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 191(5.
NUMBER 43.
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
HAPPEN IN VT.;
NEWS B Y COUNTIES
DECIDED !1 WEEK
I'l
Maj-Gcn. Scott Is Ordered to the .
Border to Make a Complete
Report on Situation Confront
ing Gen. Funston.
Mm.
.-M)V
ircot
'clock.
MIDDLEBUItY.
ThniiiuS 13. I'njip, wlfi' of
1 Joyce, died nt her home mi
Thur.tdav evening about
Mm. Hoyce hnd been 111
1V
i:iir P:.:o
'Villi
i A M B B ft Uln 91
U-KRMNH N
ul it u in
Ultimatum Is Delivered to Berlin and
President Wilson So Informs Con
gress in Joint SessionAn Early
Reply Is Requested Whether Von
Bernstorff Gets His Passports or
N(t Will Probably Be KnOWn '-Capture Stone Quarry Northeast
ol verdun Anoiner uus-
Within a Week, sian Victory near
Er.erum.
FLIC1
HEAVY LOSSE
AYONET ATTACK
MACHINE GUN IS
1 1ADE READY FOR
BAKER'S REPRESENTATIVE
tcphold fever fur about two weelft, fol
lowing tin- sleki.oss of l'rofc 'wir li;-re
nnd their son, Logeno From tho HrHt Iter
Illness had boon more severe, tl'im tlmt nf
'ho others anil alarming H.vm;. terns ap
ical cd during the Inst fow ily. Laura
Norton r.oyci! wns liorn In W'r-y iu-ltltro n-id
was the dnimlitor of ''nlvln niul Chat lotto j -hi'm Kvans Mold
Is In Wnllliuffnrd to visit his sisters. Mrs.
Mltia lingers find Mis. 1!. C. Instills.
Mrs. Alfred ranton and children of Vor
tr'itm h have returned to tlmt 'Ity after
0 visit h' re with Mrs. Ponton's mother,
'is. Allien Hendricks. lTof. and Mrr.
1 Id win Holmes ai spndlng a few da I
..ih friends In Rutland. -The Rev i:, A.
Austin has reiuinid from Snralngo,
N. V., where he linn bifii attending tha
annual conference of Methodist minis
ters. The funeral of Mrs. Helen K. Cam)'
bell was held at her late home on Sey
mour Htieet Wednesday afternoon at
three o'clock, conducted by tho lloV.
I'liero was a good
Washington, April 19. President Wilson's long expected
final warning to Germany that the United States will break
off diplomatic relations unless she abandons her present
methods of submarine warfare, and immediately declares her
intention 1o do so. was delivered to-day in a note to Berlin and
was announced by the President in an address to a joint ses
sion of Conjrcss. The President demands nothing less than
the abandonment of submarine warfare against commerce.
Both the President's address and the American note de
clare in unequivocal terms that only by Germany acceding to
the demand can the breaking off of relations altogether be
prevented.
The President considers that the next step depends sole
ly on Germany and that three or four days constitute a rea
sonable time for a reply. He is willing to discuss how sub
marine warfare may be conducted within the limits of inter
national law and humanity after Germany abandons her pres
ent methods.
Diplomatic history records but one instance as yet where
a breaking of relations between two first-class powers has not
eventually brought war that which now exists between
Germany and Italy.
MGSHIERS
Four Companies of New York
National Guard Take Charge
of Cable Company's
Plant.
Administration's Final Action
on Carranza's Suggestion That
U. S. Troops Be Recalled Will
Be Based Largely on Showing
Made in Report.
near
In a
Congress lecelved the President's dec
laration of his course with mixed evi
dences of concern and approbation. M03
of the lea lers. democratic and republican,
though' the President hardly entild do
less, i.nd some expressed tho otilulon that
Ids action would not lead to war. lte
jifillean Loader Mann alone of all the
opposition leaders openly attacked the
Piesldent for his stand. Ho characterized
It as a political play.
At'aehed fo the Ameilcan note as an
pppcntllx aie the tacts In thp case of the
Sussex. Thev show that three American
Rimy and navy otllcers found In the hull
nf the desti ned ship not only seiew bolts
which correspond in use and Idcntllicn
1 11 in marks with thus on Herman torpe
does In possession of the French govern
however, that his government will at
tempt to bring submarine operations
within the law of nations. This the United
Etntos is willing to discus-, after Ger
many lias abandoned her present
methods not before.
Clearly the President's demand is that
the use of the submarine shall be re
stricted to operations ai;alnst wnishlps.
I'pon that rock the friendly relations be
tween the two countries may be rent.
CIHS1S AT WAITING STACK.
Tho crisis now resolves itself Into the
waiting stago during which German will
have oppoitunlty to accede to the Amer
ican demands. Heforo another week lie
Kins settlement of tho lone standing Issue
either will be assured or fount Von Hern
tnent at the naval station Toulon but that 1 storff will have his passports and Am-
tho American otlbers actually found 1
pieces of metal which they have Identified
as parta of Herman toipedoes,. I'our of
them still Pear the distinctive red paint
common to Herman torpedo "war heads."
In short the Prilled States pn sents the
ebb nee as Hit capstone to an accumula
tion of e ide cr extending over a period
nl months w'.leh is held to prove
Irrefutably that Herman assurances to
the Pnltid Stales have repeatedly been
wantonly violated.
Copies ( f the Ameilcan note were sent
ti 11 nresei tatlvos here of neutral nations.
Thr doe merit uni not piven to any of
thr belligerent d'obmnts
OKP.MANY'S Vl'TITl'D K TO 1UTK,
I'otint von Per n.stoi It aliiadv has
r iterated ti Secretary l.ansiiin that
un lei no clroum-tancc.T will Germany
pne up the submarine as a weapon of
warfare, 1 cause she contends it Is a
retaliation for Great Hrltaln's food
bluoknde. The ambassador has declared,
bassador Herard will be leaving Herlln.
The Piesldent had guarded his plans
with most effective ecrecy until ten
o'clock this morning when he disclosed
them at a conference with Chairman
Stono Senator Lodge, tho ranking repub
lican of tho Senate foreign relations com
mittee, niul Chairman Flood and Ilepre
sentatlve Cooper, the milking republican
of the foreign affairs committee of the
House.
ASKS NOTHING OF C'ONGRKSS.
Tho President asked nothing of Con.
gross when ho appeared before it to-day.
Ho rame only to Infirm It of his action.
Ho did it In 15 minutes and Cnrigiess went
back to work solemnly Impressed with
the .situation which confronts tho coun
try. Tho sscono had been dramatically
human. Tho President's demeanor re
flected his state of mind, and an Impar
tial observer would readily say the de
meanor of Congress as a whole lellected
Its sympathy.
London, Apt 11 10. The Germans
Haudremont, noithenst of Verdun.
bayonet attack in which heavy casual
ties were Inflicted on the French, have
cnptuied a stone ipiarry, around which
they gained a footing Monday.
Theie has been considerable artillery
I activity west of the Meuse on bill "01,
and the French first lines between
! Dead Man hill and Cumleres. At I.es
Kpnrgcs the Hermans after three at
1 tacks entered Flench trenches on a front
of about yards, but were Immediately
expelled from them, suffeilng serious
I losses.
i Artillery duels nre still In progress on
I the Knsslan front, but there has been
I no Important cbair-'es In positions. A
Hussiau attack against Austrian posl
, Hons on the upper Sereth river in
! Hallcla was repulsed.
! The Italians have captured Monto
! Fume pass from the Austrlans and
I taken the extreme western peak of
i Monte Ancora. where the Austrian
ti cliches wpre shattered with heavy
casualties to their occupants.
Still another defeat of the Turks in
the region of Lrzcrum Is lecorded by
the Itusslnns. Near Aeolilcala tho Rus
sians In a night attack captured strongly
organized hills and Inflicted severe ran- j
ualtles on the Turks, who left hundreds
1 of dead on the Held of battle.
Premier Asquith has postponed until
, next Tuesday a statement of the llrit
I ish government's position with regard to
I conscription. The premier has told the
I House of Commons that unless the dis
agreement among the members of the
cabinet can be settled amicably there
will be a break up of the coalition min
istry. The reply of Hreat Ilrltnln and France
to the American government's protest
against their Interference with maritime
commerce has been cabled to Washing-
I ton,
Hreecp has formally protected against
the usf b the entente powers of Suvla
bay, Island of Crete, for a naval base.
llastlngs-on-IIudson, N. Y., April lf.
Four companies of the New York Na
tional Guard, comprising 217 officers and
men, arilved here at 11:20 o'clock to-night.
In losponso to a call from Sheriff I'lrlch
Welsenilanger of Westchester county,
after a riot of striking employes of thn
National Conduit and Cable company
had extended be: ond continl of the clvM
authorlUc.
Although reports were circulated that
the strikers had accumulated great
quantities of stones and bottles with
which to resist Intel ference by the
militia, there was no demonstration when
the troops alighted from a soeclal train
made up at Yonkers, and marched Into
the large plant of tho cable company.
Several hundred men affected by the
strike lined the railroad tracks, but aside
from a few muttered Imprecations and
some shouting by small boys, there was
no disturbance.
Col. Klein distributed his men
throughout the plant of the Cable
Washington, April 10. No dcclrlon as to
wit lull awal of American troops from
Mexico is expected for a week or ten days
unless there are new outbicaks against
the forces In Mexico to compel Immedi
ate action. This was made clear to-day
when Secretary Faker despatched .Major-
General Hugh I.. Scott, chief of staff
to the border as bis ersonal representa
tive to make a complete report on the
military problems confronting Henciai
Funston.
The administration's final action on
General Carranza's suggestion that the
expedition lie recalled probably will be
based largelv on what Is shown In ibis
report Geneial Scott, who left Washing
ton to-night, hardly will be able to make
the round trip and complete his observa
tions In less than in days.
Mr. Tinker laid stress in Ills an
nouncement on the fact that General
Fiinstnn still is in supremo command
of the border sltuntlon and expedition
ary forces and will remain so. llo
raid tho department fully approved
every stop General Funston had taken,
and that General Scott was going only
because It bud seemed desirable to get
a clearer view than was possible by
means of official leports.
Despatches from the border or from
Mexico to-day contained no word of
development changing the situation.
company and closed the gates after The expedition seeking 111a is at a
them. A machine gun which had been standstill, apparently, concentrated at
used bv the coninanv for testlmr muni- points where General Pershing and
tlons In filling large contracts it lias
with the entente allies, was mtivcd
Into place for an emergency while the
forty special guards pressed Into serv
ice when the strike started Saturday
held themselves In readiness to obey
the orders of Col. Klein.
GETS $ 1,060.89 VERDICT.
.1. K.
SWEAR SUSSEX WAS
NOT TORPEDOED1 tull amount with Interest,
Plrlo Win Suit against Grnnlte
Nuvlncs Ilnnk of ltarre.
Montpeller, April 19. A verdict for J.
K. Plrie, n WIHIamstown quarry owner,
for SIAft.SO was returned by a jury lat
this afternoon In Washington county
court ngaln.-t the Granite Savings ban
of Parre, the jury having been out for
over live hours. Mile sued to recover
the amount of a note given by Lowl
and Mercer, granite manufacturers. The
plaintiff contended that he had an ar.
rangernent with the bank to have the
note collected. The verdict was for the
General Funston believe they are best
protected against whatever may come.
The only messages received, tho hu1
stance of which was mndo public, were
of n reassuring nature. consular de
spatch said General Pershing's desire
to change tho location of Ills most ad
vanced base near Parral had nut with
no opposition by the Carranza military
iiithoiltles. General Pershing is under
stood to have desired to establish his new
base at such a point that communication
with the rear would lie '"as difficult.
State department ollliials pointed out
that while ti.e site of thi new wise
was not revealed, it was said to be nearer
than the old one to Parral, the town
where the Americans were find on last
week by Carranza soldiers or civilians.
General Gutierrez. Carranza commandoi
of the di-tilct was said to have sanctioned
the cliane. .
State department reports from Chi
huahua told of the movuu.mt of Carranza
troops from that section toward Parial.
Herlln via London, April 10. The for
eign office transmitted to-day to the
American embassy a supplementary note
In regard to the Sussex containing affi
davits swoiri to by a Swiss passenger
on the Sussex that the steamship was
not torpedoed and also a statement to
the same effect from an American pas-:eiit',er.
TEXT OP ULTIMATUM.
Voahlnetun, April 10. Tho full text ot
tbo Amcrlcnn note to Germany, together
with tho appendix, follows:
You are Instructed to deliver to tho
reeretnry of foreign affairs a communica
tion reading as follows:
I did not fall to transmit Immediately
Sy telegraph to my government your ex
cellency's note of tho 10th Instant In re
gard to certain attacks by German sub
marines, and particularly In regurd to
the disastrous explosion which on March
It la.-t, wrecked the French steamship
Sussex In the ICnglisli clinnntl. I havtr
now tho honor to deliver, under lriBtrue
lions from my governmcui, th followinc
reply to your osccllency:
CITKS SUSSKX CASK FIIIST.
Information now in tho possession ol
tho government of tho United States fully
establishes tho facta In the enso of the
Su..cx, and tho Inferences whlUr my gov
ernment has drawn from that lnforma
tlon It rcgarda as confirmed by tho cir
cumstances sot fortli In jour excellency's
nolo of the 10th Instant. On the 21th of
March, 3010, at about 2:50 o'clock In tho
afternoon, tho unarmed s'.oamor hussex,
with 31" or tnoro passengers on board
iiinong whom were a number of Ameilcan
elllzens. wnn torpedood while crossing
ivm Fnlkstono to nieppo. Tho Sussex
lmd never been arme.l; wan a vessel
known to bo habitually used only for the
conveyance of passengers across tho Eng
lish channel : nnd was not following tho
routo taken by troopships or supply ships.
About SO of lior passengers, non-com-bn'ants
of nil ages and rexes, Including
citizens of tlio Fulled Sinlcf, were killed
r injured.
W'AS A O HUMAN TOItPHPO
A careful, detailed and scrupulously Im
partial investlgr.tl'Ui by naval und mili
tary officers ot tlio United States has
1 inclusively ostnbltehcd tho fact that
ho Susso: was torpedoed without want-
in" or surninonn to surrenctor and that
tlio torpedo by which sh wan struck was
WILLIAM M. INGRAM AM
ASST. WAR SECRETARY
of German manufacture. In the view of
the government of tho United States
these facts from the first made the con
elusion that tho torpedo was fired by a
German submarine unavoldnhle. It now
consUIt rs that conclusion substantiated
by tho statements of your excellency's
note. A full statement of tho facto upon
which the government of tho United
States has based Its conclusion Is In
closed,
ILLKGAIi ATTACKS GHNKRAL.
Tho government of tho United States,
after having given careful consideration
to the note of tho Imperial government of
the 10th of April, regrets to state that
tho imprei-slon mado upon It by the
statements and proposals contained in
that note Is that tho Imperial govern
ment has failed to nppreclate tho gravity
of the situation which has resulted, not
alone from the attack on tho Sussex, but
from tho whole method and character of
submarine warfare ns disclosed by tho
unrestrained practice of tho commanders
or German undersea craft during tha
past twelve months and more in tho In
discriminate destruction or merchant ves.
sels of all sorts, nationalities and desttna
tlons. If tho Blnklng of thu Sussex bad
been an Isolated case tho government of
tho United States might find It possible
to bono that tho olllcer who was re
sponsible for that act had wilfully
violated his ordor'B or had been criminally
negligent In taking nono of tho precau
tions thoy prescribed, nnd that tho ends
of Justlco might bo satlslled by Imposing
upon lilm nn adequnto punishment,
coupled with a formal disavowal of tho
net nnd pnyment ot a suitable Idemnlty
bv the Imperial government, jlut, though
tiro attack upon tho Sussex was rniuil
festly Indefensible and caused a loss of
life ro tragical us to make It stand forth
as one of tho most terriblo examples of tho
inhumanity of submarine warfare as the
Washington, April 19. William M.
Ingraharn, former mayor of Portland,
Me., has been selected by President
Wilson for assistant secretary of war.
The nomination was signed to-day, Mr.
Ingraharn will succeed Henry llreck
Inridge, who resigned with former Sec
retary Gnrrlson.
NEW HAVEN WRECK
VICTIMS ARE FIVE
Bradford. 11. I., April I8.-TI10 total
deaths from the rear-end collision of
trains on tho Now York, New Haven &
Hartford railroad hero last night remain
ed at live to-night, a search of tho ruins
having failed to dlscloso more bodies.
All the Injured nrn expected to recover.
Various Inquiries Into the causo of the
action were started during tho day but
none of them reached any definite conclu
sion, and It was said to-nlght that no
findings would bo returned probably until
an Investigation to be begun to-morrow
In New Haven, under the direction of tho
Interstate commereo commission, wan
completed.
Franklin County Road Meeting.
St. Albans, April 19. About ii'i road
commissioners and 3." selectmen of
Franklin county attended a good roads
meeting held at Kagles' hall to-day,
morning and afternoon sessions being
held. Stoddard H. Pates of Derby ad
dressed the gathering on the work o
road work, urging quality rather than
quantity In road construction. Among
thoto present were Governor Charles W.
Gates of Franklin and .1. C. Towio at
Knnshurg Falls, county highway commis
sioner. Mr. Iiatis stated that the Statu
will again this year shaie equally tlu
expense of oiling town and villago street.1
to an amount not to exceed JIM for eac'i
town; also that the State will give $M
lor every mile of selected highway which
is not patrolled, provided the road 's
kept In good condition anil the proper
reports are mado from the town.
Dinner was served at the American
House, nearly 1) men attending. Presi
dent W. D. Chandler of the St. Albans
lluslness nnd Professional Men's associa
tion presided, nnd brief speeches weru
inaue iiy -oayor J. 1.. aiaun, Hovirnor
Gates, Commissioner Hates and John '1
Cusulng.
$1,000 PAID FOR PURE
BRED HOLSTEIN COW
Hollows Falls, April 10. One thou
sand dollars was paid here to-day for
a four-year-old pure bred registered
llolsteln cow. The cow was bred by
H. G. Wiley of Chester and consigned
to a two days' sale held yesterday and
to-day. The consignee was G. A. Hos
mer of Chester Depot, Vermont, and
the high price of the sale was paid by
.1. II. U'Hrlen of Waipole, N. II., who
nlso paid $32.1 for a six months' old
daughter of the Sl.nnn cow.
Good prices wero paid to-day, a pair
of heifers being bid off by L. C. Lovell
of Hollows Falls for $20. F. II. Met
calf of llolyoke, Mass., paid the high
price yesterday, when ho bid S 73 it for
a four-year-old cow. lie bought 12
pure broils and paid a total of $2,935.
About 100 buyers from New Knglnnd
and tho eastern States attended tho
sale.
VON IGEL WILL HAVE
TO STAND TRIAL
New York, April 19.-Wolfe Von Igel
will not bo released from custody and
only a pail of the documents seized at
the time of his at rest on a charge of
being Implicated In a plot to destroy tho
Wolland canal, will be returned to the
German embassy, United States District
Attorney 11, Snowdeu Marshall declared
to-nlght.
"I luivo not oven considered tho re
lease ot Von L-el," Mr. Marshall con
tinned, "The legality of his arrest was
definitely settled, so far as my office
Is concerned, early to-dny.
"Following Von Igel's aiiest tho pro
RUTLAND COUNTY COURT,
Rutland, April 19. To-day was given
up to criminal business In Rutland county
conn, josepii .nuriiu 01 mis city wms
found guilty by Jury of burglary In hreal;
lug Into the store of N. M iiurr ) i),a
town of Rutland a few weeks ago. Fran!
Fogarty and Thomas ,1. Roberts ot Poult'
noy both pleaded guilty to the charge of
burglary by breaking Into the summer
cottage of J. L. McArthur of Granville,
N. Y., and were fined $IOi and costs of ti
each. The lines were suspended by Judge
Frank L. I b'h and 1110 men were placed
011 probation for n year on payment of
tho costs.
Hall of It.imo wnn railed and ordered for
feited In the cai-e of Nuncio Massaro,
who Is charged with robbery of Uuinuulcu
Ragosto.
t, v. ........ -e In.l TI.1.1lnl.et,
r ini;.ir i'mi. .-in- i,iL'-ii ici i ... 1 j 1
l.Igh school and the Potsdam, .N. ., :.er
iniil school. She was a teacher In tho
1 ublle schools, holding posit Soivi In Mld-'Mebiir-.-,.
Montpeller, LI'tlcton, 1!.,
nil Mnnebester, Jlnss. 1 for work was In
I bo klnt'pr-mrteii nnd primary erndes. in
" bleb she was very mieepmfu! Iter first
packing experience wni gained when she
"ns only 17 jears of aire. Some in years
1. go she was married t" Professor lbe-ee
end came to live In this village. She was
active In the Congregational Church, es
pecially In the Stindav fehool. serving as
superintendent of the primary depart
ment, and wim an etbelent leader In such
work. Last summer she assisted In the
management of Hreadloaf Inn. She show
ed much executive ability and vn highly
commended by the patrons of the Inn.
At the time of her Illness she was actively
engnved In preparation for next summer
as she was to serve In the same capacity.
The funeral services were held at th
houso Sunday artcrnoon nt two o'clock,
nnd wero In charge of Dr. Wren C.
Harrington. The interment was In the
West cemetery She Is survived by her
husband, stepson, a sister, Mrs. Sarah
lirown of Mllford, Conn., and tluee broth
ers, l. W. Norton of Itoekford HI., H. 11.
Norton of phelton, Conn., and Henry Nor
ton of Addison.
Arthur N. Hrovvn, Dr. P. K. Mellen
and P. N. Swett of the hoard of trustee-,
of this village were appointed a com
mittee to pass on the erection of build
ings on private property and to prevmt
the encumbering ot streets nnd walks.
Section 2'1, of the charter, gives tne
trustees this authority. This villaso has
not had tho services of such a com
mittee In the past nnd It Is felt tlmt this
U an Important step toward n better
and more beautiful Mlddlebury. Mrr
Helen U. Campbell, a life-long resident
of this village, who had been In ill health
for a year, died at her home on Seymour
street about 11:30 o'clock Saturday morn
ing, at the ago of 71 years. She Is sur
vived by a granddaughter, Miss Helen
Campbell of Philadelphia, and a niece In
Watervlllo, P. (J. Tbo funeral was
held nt the house Wednesday afternoon
at two o'clock and burial was In the
family lot In the West cemetery.
Frank I'. Warrer. o" Weybridgo has
leased 1 part of the Hrovvn house on
Wcybrldge street nnd will soon move his
family there.
Harry Vossau, who has been In
tbo employ of Lewis Hentlcld for six
months, hn.s resigned bis position and
gono to Florence, where he has secured
a position. :Mrs. Eliza M. Leno has gona
,,, ttellnw-s Falls, called there by the
Illness of her dnughtcr. The -Memorial
Hantlst Church are making preparations
for their Kaster services. Theie will be
special anthems nnd an appropriate ser-
men In the morning rervlce for the Young I
Peoplo's society nt 6:30 p. m., and a con- ,
ert by the Sunday school at :, wnn
baptism at the close. Mr. and Mrs. H. L. !
Sumner have gone to Itutilngton, where
Mr. Sumner Is a patient at tne .viar
Fletcher hospital. Mrs. Sumner will le- j
main there aln for a while. The j
house onWeynrldge street belonging toW
W. Martin, which was damaged by fire a
few months ago, Is being repaired. Miss
Stella Turner, who has been here to visit
ber risters for a few days, lias returned
m her school duties In Ferrisburg. Mon
day, market day, eggs brought 21 cents
and butter 20 to 31. Walter Simons under
went nn operation nt his home Saturday
In which a portion of each of his big toes
were removed, the trouble being caused
bv Ingrowing nails., blood poisoning de
veloping. M. C. Miilcahey, who has
been In the employ of the JVliii-
rllebtirv Marble company, has rcieued
his position there and gone to llr.mdon,
bore ho has secured a position. 1 otintv
WAR MATERIAL PLANT
AT RUTLAND BURNED
KXAMS. FOR OITOMKTltlSTS.
Rutland, Aiuil 19,-Saeu prospective
eye doctors, Including three fiom out
side of Vermont, took examinations hero
to-day bef ro Dr. C .1 Cleveland and
Dr. A. 11. SlJder of this city, members
of the' State iiuarii 01 optometry. Tin
cuiidldatcH are I.. L. btravv of wilder.
Hot Mirnpncl Shell IgnllcH Vol of Oil
In K. II, I'alcta Manufactory.
Rutland, April 19.- File cnused by the
dipping for tempering Into oil of a shrap
nel shell, which was too hot, destroyed
the foundry arid a part of tho machine
shop of tho F. R. Patch Mimufactuiin
company this afternoon. Tbo loss will
teach JlO.eoo, being partly covered by
Insurance. The oil In the big vat be-
came Instantly Ignited and combustion
of dust added to the tire so that almost
Instantly tho entire interior of the two
kioiv. oil-soaked building, which was
about 100 by 50 feet In dimensions, was
mass ot flames. Tho entire department
was called out and succeeded In saving
the other buildings. The plant ordinal-
llv manufactures stono working uinchln
cry, but has made shrapnel cases almost
exclusively the last winter, miming
night and day.
The fact that war materials are hand
led nt the plant nnd that there have
been frequent rumors of spies being hem
caused tho spreading ' a story that
the plant vvns dynamited and there was
ureal excitement until tbo truth was
learned.
No workmen wero Injured, but several
had narrow escapes.
(Continued 011 page four).
test of the German ambassador was I Lawrence P- 1 oisom 01 south Hoyalton,
mado to the secretary of state and Mr. , Henry K. -M-'iilll and Harold j. .M,.r,
ILansIng referred the mutter to tho at- of Lowell. .Mass.. .inn. .m,a siewel of
tornoy-geuornl's office, It Is my opinion, Inooskl, Mrs. Alice P Hnskln, of St
that Vim Igel never has been legally J Johnsbury and Mauilco 11, ltot uf Free
u membor of tho German orubassy stuff." port, I'a-
pi.oTTiais art: shot.
1:1 Pnso, Texas, April in -General Ga
vlrn, commander of the Juarez garrison
received a message from General duller
rez, mlllmry governor of Chihuahua, slni.
Imi?' that 15 civilians concerned In a Villi
,ilt to seize the Chihuahua ganlson wero
executed uy win minis equnn wua,,
atlendan'e and many flowers. Thii
beaters were P. F. Chnpman, Frank R.
Stone, .Uwo Tloulln and C. F. Rich.
The Intel merit was in the family let In
the West cemetery. Among those from
out of town were Mrs. Fannin An tin
of MonteWlr, K. J., and Mrs. .I.dlrj
Wolf of Union Tllll, N. J. Roto Mama
relll, an imployo of the Vermont Mar
ble company nt their plant at Ileldins,
who had been 111 lor a few days, was
taken on the llv o'clock train Tuesday
afternoon to the Proctor hospital, where
bo died early Wednesday morning at
the age of Do years. He Is survived bv
a wife nnd two children, who are la
Italy. It Is oxpeetcd that the remalni
will bo brought back to "Mlddlebury,
where the funeral services will In
held and burial made. The villago
water was shut off from the west part
of the village Tuesday afternoon ami
overling on account of a bad break at
tho junction of South Main street and
Sorrtlt street, whore thole were two
blow-outs. Dorothy Hunt, three-year-old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Harry
K. Hunt, who had been 111 for some tlmo
at their home, died Tuesday afternooi .
Funeral serviren will be held at the,?
home this afternoon at two o'clock.
The Rev. D. H. Corkran will oftl' iati
and burial will be in the Munger S'reo.
cemetery. Mrs. Hrennan ot St. Alban 1
Is in town for a few days' visit at thn
home of her ton, T. P. Hrennan Pot
ter Chapter, No. 22, R. A. M., held the'r
annual meeting In their rooms In tbo
Masonic Temple Tuesday evening. Them
was a good attendance. Reports wero
read. The following officer: were e'ect
ed: H. P., Charles Hutton; K Arthur
W. Kddy: S., Willis N. Cady; treasure-,
Robert F. Plnney; secretary, WIPIa' I
H. Hrewstor: C. of P., C. II. Kills;
P. P.. J. It. nonlipid; R. A. C. F F.
Foote; third veil, A. 13. Lambert, sec
ond veil, II. R. Church: first veil, P S.
Field; chaplain, George W. Mead;
rtewnrds, F. G. Hrooklns and Frank M.
Stearns; tyler, Charles J. Ilullock.
G. F. Hrovvn of Orwell was arrested by
Fish and Game Warden George II.
Chaffee of this village, charge! wlt'i
bunting without a license, and was
brought beforo Justice of thn Pone !
A. W. Dickens Wednesday morning air I
was fined $25 and costs of i3.S.". He mat' s
arrangements to pay. Mr. and Mrs.
John W. Roderick and daughters. Sara 1
ond Helen, of Ansonla. Conn., nre visit
ing in town. Howard H. Hostwick an I
nephew, John L. Wilson, of Cambridge,
Mass., are visiting here. Guy O. Cool
Idgo Is In Rutland to spent tho Haste;
holidays with his parents.
VERGENNES.
Harrison T:. Sanford of Cornwall hat
announced himself as a candidate for till
office of sheriff of Add-on county
! Sunday, the Rev. William Lauc;h.
ton assumed his duties as pastor of tin
I Haptlst Church. Mr. Laughton cornel
here from Hlnesburg, where he has been
pastor of the Haptlst Church in that
town for thn e years. For 20 years. h
was a missionary in central China and
for in of these years he was also .1
representative of tho American Hibla
Union. Mr. Laughton for the past seven
years has served as pastor in New
York State and Vermont, Ho has thrio
sons, tho Rev. James Laughton, pastor
of tho Haptlst Church at Wcstport,
.V. Y., Charles Laughton of Windsor and
William Laughton of Hurllngton. Mrs.
Ixtughtnn vvas for 10 years In China with
her husband, but was compelled to flea
from that country with tho children
during the Hoxer uprising, returning ti
Scotland, their native home, while Mr.
Laughton remained as Interpreter for
the Hritlsh government. The Rev. and
Mrs, Laughton's daughter. Miss Hen-
g,icult.,ral Agent Joseph 1". Carrlgan neua. is at nome wiv
v ouniy Bliei iu -oiu 4. .-'mini
has returned from ergennes, where ho
has been giving demonstrations. Pror.
rank W. Cady went to Vcrgennes Mon
day and in the evening delivered a lec
ture in the Hlxby Free library, taking tor
his subject, "Shakespeare's mom.-.miss
Faith Llndsey and Miss Alary r.. i.aies
have returned to Proctor after a several
days' visit in town. Gilbert MeComrlck
of Rutland is visiting In town and may
conclude to make his headquarters in
Mlddlebury.
Mrs. Mlglla Abate camo near meeting
with what might have neon a serrous
accident at the station here 1 uesday
when bho was about to get off the noon
liver. She had two young children In her
arms and ns there wero quite a number
of people getting off nnd on she vvas
(-omowhat hampond. A young man took
one of the children nnd got to the plat
form. Mrs. Abate alighted from th" train
vvben it was In motion and in some vva.v
was thrown to the ground. Had she
moved her feet thev would have un
doubtedly been cut olf. She was soon on
her feet none the wor.-e for the ex
perience, but greatly fr Igbtemd. Mrs.
vS'llllnm Kdgcitnn Is in town, accom
panied by Mrs. Alfred lllglcy and Ms-3
Kdnu Hlgley of Cnslh'ton. ( "ol. and Mrs.
Thud M. Chapman havo gono to New-
York city to spun! a month with tlulr
daughter, Mrs. Kodjbanoff. Miss Mar
garet Sheldon, v ho Is Liking a course ot
training in a Now York city hospital,
Is In town to visit her parents. Dr. and
Mrs. W. II. Sheldon. P. 10. Crane has
been chosen by the scout council as scout
master of the local oiganlzatlon, Mrs.
Sarah Hrovvn of Mllford, Conn., and three
brothers, H. W. Norton of Rockford,
111., II. II, Norton ot Sprlnglleld, Mass.,
nnd Henry Norton of Addison, who wcr
railed here bust week by the Illness and
death of their sister, M-s. Thomas li
Hoyte, wife of Professor- Hoyce, have re
lurnid to their homes.- Tho dance given
by the K'tst Mldtilebnry Improvement
foelety In the now building of the J. 11
llrynnt Manufacturing" company Tuesday
evening was well attended and a good
sum was realized. Mr and Mrs. John A
Mnigarr and daughter, Miss Lucy Mor
gan, havo returned to Plttsflohl, Mass.,
after a week In towu. Cluuic 1'. Smith
son was in town Saturday and an
nounced himself ns a candidate for re
election to that office, which ho baa
tilled for tho past 12 years. Miss Ruta
Norton, who Is taking a courso at the
Siudder school, New York city, is
spending tbo Faster vacation with her
mother, Mrs. 13. O Norton. Frnnk A.
Ross has rotumed from a visit to rela
tives In Rutland. Miss Lydla Hrown, 1
teacher In tho public schools nt Salem.
N, Y Is spending tho vacation with
her sister, Mrs. Nathan Travis, and her
brother, Levi TL Hrown. Miss Annla
McAuly, who recently fell and injured
her spine, Is at tho homo of her par
ents In New Haven. Joseph Montenay
spent Sunday with his parents In Hruslt
ton. N. Y. Mrs. Charles Tull and daugh
ter, Miss Helen Tull, visited friends In
Hurllngton Saturday. K. H. Leo Is 111
with pneumonia. Mr. and Mrs. Elliott
Remind of St. Albans spent Sunday
with his father, N. J. Renaud. Mlsi
Helen Adams of New York city Is visit
ing her sister, Mrs. Harry Kenyon.
Miss Marjorle Prentiss spent Sunday
with relatives in St, Albans.-Aldermaa
John 1. Hartley left Saturday on a two
weeks' business trip to Hrldgeport.
Conu.-ll. A. Hrovvn went to Hurllngton
Saturday to accompany his wife homo
from the Mary Fletcher hospital, where
she recently underwent nn operation,
Mrs. Levi H. Hrown, son, Onslow, and
Mrs. IT. L. Klngsland were visitors In
Hiiilliigton Satnrday.--IvOVi II. Hrovvn
was called Saturday to Ogdensburr,
N. Y., 011 business connected with tha
Sheffield Farms Slawson-Decker com
pany. At a meeting of Plerpolnt Lodge.
Knights of Pythias, lYIday evening tho
rank of esqulro was conferred on one
candidate and at the close tho members
wero given refreshments or new maple
syrup by the chancellor commander, H.
A horse and wagon belonging to L. .1.
Hrlstol was stolon from tho horso shod
of the Congregational Church Sunday
evening while Mr. Iltlstol was attending
servl.'es at tho church, No duo hns yet
been found ns to who committed the
(Conlluucd on Pago two.) , j
