VOL. XXI, NO. 44.
ENERGETIC CM
FOR BETTER BABIES
PARADE SATURDAY, MOTHER'S
DAY—PROGRAM DEVOTED TO
CHILD INTERESTS
Judging by the interest Williston
took in the Better Baby campaign, the
climax of which was reached in last
week's program, the slogan of "good
fare, good care and fresh air for
every Williston baby" will be car
ried out in efforts put forth along
practical lines.
The committee in charge of affairs
was composed of representatives
from all the organizations in the city,
and was well pleased with the inter
est which has been awakened. Al
ready plans are being made for some
follow up work.
From time to time during the past
weeks articles from authorities on
child wellfare subjects have been pub
lished, and much literature has been
distributed. All civic and other so
cieties have held better baby pro
grams at which child wellfare topics
were presented and discussed.Placards
bearing the campaign slogan appear
ed in many of the windows on Main
Street, also very effective posters in
black and white giving warning
against many of baby's enemies.
One day was devoted to the broth
ers and sisters in the public schools,
when talks on subjects of self-gov
ernment, suitable to the various ages,
were given in all the grades.
Mothers Day
Saturday, April 15, was Mother's
Day. A baby parade on Main street
at one o'clock attracted a great deal
of attention. A disagreeable wind
prevented many from being in line
who had planned to be present. But
there were enough prettily decorated
carriages carrying precious freight
to call to the mind of all whe
them that the babies are this coun
try's most valuable asset.
Immediately following the parade
some two hundred or more people
gathered Odd Fellow's hall to listen
to the program prepared for Mother's
Day. Mrs. J. D. Gates, chairman of
the committee in charge, presided.
The first number consisted of a
group of songs by pupils of Miss
Zilpha Monroe of the Central School
The little girls had their rocking
chairs, and dolls to whom they sang
several sweet lullabys.
The next number was a carefully
prepared paper by Dr. MaeManus, in
which he discussed the new and
proper ways of caring for babies, as
contrasted with the old, improper and
often harmful ways of doing such
necessary things as bathing, dressing:
and feeding young children. Dr. Mae
Manus was followed by Dr. H. J.
Baker and Dr. M. E. Trainor who
each briefly and emphatically cited
the necessity of careful supervision
of the growing child's teeth, eyes,
ears and throat. Both gentlemen rec
ommended frequent inspection as a
prevention of the often serious
troubles which arise from thought
less neglect of these organs by busy
parents.
H. R. Evans sang anew cradle song
by Eugene Goudey, "Sleep on, Dear
heart," and Mrs. M. B. Jackson play
ed as a violin solo, "The Lullaby"
from Jocelyn. Both numbers were
particularly appropriate for the oc
casion and delighted the hearers.
Child Interests
Miss Bessie R. Baldwin gave a very
interesting and instructive talk on
stories suitable for children before
they enter school. She told why the
child has a natural craving for stories
and how the proper stories not only
satisfy this desire for new elements
of interest, but also enlarges the
child's vocabulary, and knowledge of
natural facts, and 'teaches social and
moral lessons. Miss Baldwin illus
trated her points by telling two
stories, "The Pig Brother" and
"Epaminondus."
Miss Baldwin was followed by a
symposium of three speakers who
mentioned briefly what may be done
in the community to better conditions
for children. Mrs. E. C. Carney,
speaking for the clubs of the city,
mentioned supervised play grounds
and a more rigid censorship of the
motion picture films. Supt. L. A.
White for the schools, seconded what
had been said regarding the movies
and asked for a better and more
hearty co-operation on the part of
the parents. The home and the school
should work together, then each can
be most effective in performing the
work at hand.
(Continued on page 10)
Wilke's Hens Making
Remarkable Records
The pen of five white Plymouth
Rock hens sent by A. .Wilke to
Mountain Grove, Missouri, to take
part in the International Laying Com
petition are certainly adding to the
fame of Williams county. The big
contest, which will last a year, began
November, 1915, with 126 pens of
biddies from all parts of the country
representing many breeds. Monthly
reports are sent out by the judges
showing the relative standing and rec
ords. Speaking of reports recently
received Mr. Wilke said:
"Our White Rocks are making
truly enviable records at the Laying
Competition. Competition is strong
er this year than in any of the four
preceeding years, as demonstrated by
the highest average, individual and
pen records to date at the contest.
"The highest average for one month
in 1912 was in April, all hefis aver
aging approximately 19 eggs each.
During 1913, the highest months rec
ord was April, with an average of
18.5 eggs each 1914 the highest
months record was in March with an
average of 20.5 eggs each 1915 in
March they averaged 20 eggs each
the highest average this year was in
March, 530 hens laid 10,756 eggs, or
aproximately 20.7 eggs each.
"For March our pen made a record
"which has not been equalled for a
number of years, the five hens laid
130 eggs or an average of 26 eggs
each for 31 days. This record won
them the second prize, silk ribbon and
medal for the month. The highest
pen record in the months preceeding
March was 123 eggs laid in December
by a pen of S. C. R. Island Red from
Missouri. Our pen was only six eggs
short of winning the silver cup. The
last three months hen No. 52 laid 68
eggs No. 55, 66 eggs No. 57, 72
eggs No. 67, 53 eggs. Nos. 52, 55
and 57 have held no place lower than1
4th place for the past three winter
months, all breeds and varieties com
peting."
FARMERS CUT.
RECEIVES SUPPORT
EXPERT ASSISTS DIRECTORS TO
SELL STOCK AND DEVISE
ECONOMIC PLANS
The directors of the Farmers' Co
operative Creamery are quietly work
ing to put the institution on a better
basis and are meeting with gratifying
results. The creamery has been a
success from the beginning and has
met only such 'obstacles as all such
new concerns encounter. The consol
idation with the Sharp creamery has
proven a wise and economical move
and other economies in operation are
contemplated. The principal and
only formidable handicap has been the
lack of sufficient working capital to
pay off the indebtedness and put the
creamery on a cash basis. The only
method of over coming this is the sale
of more stock.
Raise $3(000.
At the request of the directors,
"Chas. E. Eckerle of Chicago, general
•organizer of farmers co-operative
creameries, elevators, etc., was in the
city this week to confer and advise
with the board. That Mr. Eckerle is
an expert in his line and a man whose
heart is in his work is evident to any
one who talks to him. He came to
WHSston and assisted in the original
organization of the local creamery.
This week he went carefully over its
business records and affairs and says
there is every reason for these in
terested in the concern to be encour
aged. It has had good patronage and
there is an exceptional opportunity in
this location to build up a much larger
and stronger institution. Patience,
economy, good management and per
sistancy are what are needed. As a
(Continued on page 10)
The president's message follows:
"A situation has arisen in the for
eign relations of the country of
which it is my plain duty to inform
you very frankly.
"It will be recalled that in Febru
ary, 1915, the Imperial German gov
ernment announced its intention to
treat the waters surrounding Great
Britain and Ireland as embraced with
in the seat of war and to destroy all
merchant ships owned by its enemies
that might be found within any part
of that portion of the high seas and
that it warned all vessels of neutral
as well as of belligerent ownership to
keep out of the waters it had thus
proscribed or else enter them at their
periL The government of the Uni
ted States earnestly pretested.
"It took the position that such a
policy could not be pursued without
the practical certainty «f gross and
palpable violations of the law of na
tions, particularly if submarine craft
were to be employed as iits instru
ments in enforcing, inasmuch as the
rules prescribed by that law, rules
founded upon the principles of hu
manity and established for the pro
tection of the fires of non-combatants
at sea, conld not in the nature of the
case be observed by such vessels. It
based its protest on the ground that
persons of neutral nationality and
vessels of neutral ownership would be
exposed to extreme and intolerable
risks and that no right to close any
part of the high seas against their
From a drawing of the pontoon bridge to be constructed across the Missouri river at Williston
by the Missouri River Bridge Company.
Williston Graphic
ULTIMATUM TO GERMANY
ON SUBMARINE WARFARE
President Calls Joint Session of House and Sen
ate, Reads Final Demand on Germany For
Observance of International Laws of War
fare on the High Seas—Situation Most Se
rious Yet Faced—Marks Climax of Protract
ed Negotiations Started by Sinking of Lusi
tania—Full Text of Remarkable "Note" as
Read to Congress and Transmitted to Berlin
Yesterday.
Washington, April 19.—President Wilson told congress, as
sembled in a joint session, shortly after 1 o'clock this afternoon,
that he had given Germany irrevocable noticification that the Uni
ted States will break off diplomatic relations if Germany's illegal
submarine campaign is continued.
The note, America's last word, is practically an ultimatum,
demanding an immediate reply, and presumably was in the Berlin
foreign office as the president was speaking. It was dispatched
last night in accordance with the president's plans to have it be
fore the German government at the same moment he was address
ing the American congress.
Wilson asked no action whatever of congress. He simply in
formed it of the accumulation of facts proving that Germany's
assurances to the United States were being violated that the sub
marine campaign, despite the earnest protests of the United
States, is being conducted with renewed vigor in contravention of
all the laws of nations and humanity, and that he means to sever
relations unless it is brought within the law.
The diplomatic history of the world shows that such a course
is almost certain to be followed by war.
The president's note and his address to congress are final.
They mark the end of diplomatic exchanges.
The continuance of the long-standing friendly relations, the
president made clear, depends alone upon Germany's conduct.
Great Ovation For President use, or to expose them to such risks
"When the president entered the could lawfully be asserted by any
chamber of the house just before 1 bell.gerent government. The law of
o'clock, senators, representatives, the "»tions in Jheee matters, upon which
cabinet and the galleries arose. An
outburst of applause gave way to
loud cheering. During this demon
stration the president shook hands
with Speaker dark and Vice Presi
dent Marshall, and then 'bowed to the
big assemblage. He immediately
launched into his address, speaking
slowly and clearly.
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916. $1.50 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
the government 6f the United States
based its protest, is not of recent
origin or founded upon merely arbi
trary principles set up by convention
It is based on the contrary, upon man
ifesto and inoperative principles of
humanity and has long been estab
lished with the approval and by the
express assent of all civilized nations,
"Notwithstanding the earnest pro
test of our government, the Imperial
German government at once proceed
ed to carry out the policy it had an
nounced. It expressed the hope that
the dangers involved, at any rate the
dangers to neutral vessels would be
reduced to a minimum by the instruc
tions which it had issued to its sub
marine commanders and assured the
government of the United States that
it would take every precaution both
to respect the rights of neutrals and
to safeguard the lives of non-com
batants.
"What has actually happened in the
year which has since elapsed has
shown that those hopes were not jus
tified, those assurance insusceptible
of being fulfilled. In pursuance of
the policy of submarine warfara
against the commence of its adver
saries, thus announced and entered
upon by the imperial German gov
ernment in spite of the solemn pro
test of this government, the com
manders of German undersea vessels
•have attacked merchant ships with
greater and greater activity, not only
upon the high seas surrounding Great
Britain and Ireland, but wherever they
could encounter them in a way that
has grown more and more ruthless,
mone and more indiscriminate as the
months have gone by, less and less
observant of restraints of any kind
and have delivered their attacks with
out compunction against vessels of
(Continued on page 4)
Had Great Snipe
Hunt Friday Evening
Two of our energetic and wide
awake nimrods, Earl J. Wall and
Frank Laughlin, were the leaders in
an old fashioned snipe hunt last Fri
day evening. The managers of the
hunt, and they managed it well, con
veyed their victims to the hunting
grounds by auto, Wm. Monroe kindly
saving the boys the long tramp out
by using one of their cars. Once on
the ground one of the hunters was
placed considerably south of the road
along Sand Creek and the other
North. Thus the grade was between
them and one would not see what suc
cess the other was having The idea
of the hunt was based on the fact
that birds after night fly toward a
light and the two were easy, Oh! SO
EASY. Each one was .provided with
a sack and lantern and when station
ed they were to hold the sack and
swing the lantern in front of it. so
that when the snipe started flying
they would fly toward the light and
get caught in the sack. After getting
the hunters located the managers
went, one up and the other down, to
start the drive. They got out of
sight and then fired guns to frighten
the snipe. After doing this they
beat it for town. When instructing
the boys how to hold the sack they
were told each one to pull his cap
over his eyes as the birds might fly
in their faces, being blinded by the
light, and the last the managers saw
of the boys they were standing there
with their caps over their eyes and
steadily swinging the lanterns. After
about two hours swinging they seem
ed to realize that there was a joke in
the deal somewhere but it was hard
to appreciate as they had a couple
of miles to walk in order to get back
to town. The hunters had made ar
rangements with a colored lady in
the city to cook the snipe for Satur
day supper but needless to say the
cook was short the job.
BRIDGE STOCKHOLDERS
WILL ELECT OFFICERS
PONTOON ENTERPRIZE RAPIDLY
MATURING—$8,000 RAISED
PERMANENT OFFICERS
The temporary officers of the Mis
souri River Bridge Company have
called a meeting of the stockholders
for Friday aftcrnon at the court
house to elect permanent officers and
put the company in readiness to pre
pare for the actual construction of
the bridge.
Stock subscriptions now approxi
mate $8,000. The total has been in
creased by recent subscriptions by
Williston business men and a consid
erable number of shares have been
taken by farmers of the south side.
Much interest by those interested
in the local undertaking is evinced in
the pontoon bridge now under con
struction at Mondak. A letter from
that point states that their bridge
is well under way and will be ready
for use at an early date. The Mon
dak bridge will cost about $6,000,
half of which represents the invest
ment of a man who has operated a
ferry at that point, and who will op
erate the pontoon, and the other half
is a subscription loan raised by the
businessmen.
Norton Introduces Bill
April 11 Congressman P. D. Nor
ton introduced a bill in the house of
representatives authorizing the con
struction of the Williston bridge. The
text of the bill follows:
A bill to authorize the construction
of a bridge across the Missouri River
at or near the city of Williston, North
Dakota.
Be it enacted by the Senate and
House of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America in Congress
assembled, That the Missouri River
Bridge Company, a corporation or
ganized under the laws of the State
of North Dakota, its successors and
assigns, be and they are hereby, au
thorized to construct, maintain, and
operate a bridge and approaches
thereto across the Missouri River at
a point suitable to the interest of na
vigation, at or near the city of Wil
liston, North Dakota, in accordance
with the provisions of the Act entitled
"An Act to regulate the construction
of bridges over navigable waters,"
aproved March twenty-third, nineteen
hundred and six.
Sec. 2. That the right to alter,
amend, or repeal this Act is hereby
expressly reserved.
"Go, plant some kind of a tree."
tote HisToncaTSac TY
MESSAGE DIRECT
FROM
FAIRIES, PIXIES, GOBLINS AND*
FURIES TO ARRIVE IN THE
CITY APRIL 27
Fairyland, April 20, 1915.
Special to the Graphic.
Queen Titania hereby confirms the
report formerly sent out that on tht
night of Thursday, April 27, she will
arrive in Williston together with her
Fairy Court and attendants. While
it is true that the Goblins and Furies,
bitterest foes of the Fairy-folk have
been seen lurking about Fairyland
recently the Queen sends assurrance
to all Williston children and Ml
parents that she will be accompanied
by her allies The Pixies The Amazon
Maidens, and the Archer Cadets, all
of whom bear their arms right nobly.
Prince Florimel, has brought report
to her Majesty, that in all the land
there is not another city like to Wil
liston, and it is upon this report tkafe
she has based her determination to
make her visit. Fairy court will be
held promptly at eight o'clock in th»
Armory. Captain Evans has as
sured Her Majesty that should thae
appear imminent an attack by the
dreaded Goblins and Furies, the
militia will promptly be called into
service.
The many flowers are at this time
of the year looking their prettiest af
ter their long winter naps, and the
Fairies, even the tinniest, having
been trying their wings for several
weeks and will be quite prepared to
make their journey to Earth. The
Band of Pixies, gathered from every
corner of the Earth, have been so
long under the beneficient rule of
Prince Florimel that the reported
European warfare among mortals,
has not in anyway caused them to
swerve in their loyalty. Tho' all still
retain their original national cos
tumes, each swears full allegiance to
the Pixie Band.
Her Highness, Queen Titania, urges
the city authorities to increase their
martial force for the evening that a
sharp watch may be kept against the
appearance of the Goblins and the
Furies. The former will be readily
recognized as squat little men, se
riously hump backed, but wondrous
strong. To them a fairy is a tooth-
some morsel, and it is thought that
should they arrive at the Earth they
may even try the flesh of mortals.
The Furies three in number, are
mighty in power. Generally appear
ing in female guise, they wear snakes
in their hair, have long terrible
finger nails, and each bears a snake
in her hand for a whip. Even their
breath is venom.
It is understood that the Queen and
the Prince visit Williston because of
the large interests its citizens take
in the children of the city, for the
Fairies love children, and are ever on
the watch to bless all who care for'
them.
Officially signed and sealed this
twentieth day of April in the Inner
Court, of Fairyland Palace.
Titania, Queen of the Faries, God
dess of Fairyland.
A FREE AND EASY FOOT PATH"
Our "Little" friend W. O. was
given a noval and surprising surprise
party a week ago Monday night. He
was enjoying a fine sleep when some
thing caused him to wake up. Robed
in his "Evening Clothes" he opened the
door and quietly stepped out on the
porch to see what he could see. His
bare feet landed in several inches of
ice cold water and he beat a hasty
retreat. The Little Muddy was the
visitor, the water having spread over
the flats during the night.| And it
made W. O. Hollar to get such a cold,
foot bath at that hour of the nfght.-
CHILDREN IN NEED OF HOMES'
C. Ellithorpe, Juvenile Commission
er of the Eleventh Judicial District:
comprising the counties of Williams
McKenzie and Mountraill, states that
there are now in charge of the juven
ile court a number of children be
tween the ages of two months and
eleven years that may be adopted by
persons of good reputation who are
willing and able to provide good
homes for them. Most of these chil
dren are strong and healthy, but are
suffering under the handicap of the
loss of one or both parents. They are
bright winning little fellows who will
be a credit to those who will take the
pains to bring them np.
Anyone wishing such a child in his
home should confer with the commis
sioner at Williston.
