NORTHWEST WORKER
OFFICIAL ORGAN OK THE SOCIALIST PARTY Oh' SNOIIOMISII \ND STEVENS COUNTIES
6c per copy ; $1 .00 per year.
WALSH DAMNS
WATER GRABS
Knormous Incomes Are Based on
Unnatural Possession of Re
sources, He Declares
WASHINGTON, D. o.— An enor
mous grub at the public wealth has re
cently been made by big corporations
with the help of the United States
Senate. The Shields' water power bill,
which has passed the Senate and is
now in the House of Representatives
of Congress, is the worst attempt to
get the natural resources of the people
into private hands that has been pulled
off in years.
The bill will give away all the walci
power of all the navigable rivers of
the United States.
"Vigorous and unrelenting prosecu
tion to regain all land, water power
and mineral right! secured from the
government by fraud" was recom
mended by the main, or Manly, report
of the Commission on Industrial Re
lations.
"The enormous incomes and inherit
ances that imperil our republic and the
enormous power over others that go
with these fortunes," said Frank P.
Walsh, in a recent statement issued by
the Committee on Industrial Relations,
"are based on the unnatural posses
sion by a comparative few of our
mines and our highways of commerce
and of most of our richest farming
lands."
The workers can stop this grab if
they will act quickly and protest to
their Congressmen. What is left of
the people's earth here in America,
and what can be taken back from priv
ilege grabbers, should be controlled
and developed by the people for the
people.
SOME GOVERNMENT
Twenty senators, masquerading as
the United States Senate, "passed" the
$38,000,000 Legislative, Executive and
Judicial Appropriation bill without the
customary formality of having the
bill read and with but a few minutes'
'discussion.
The speed with which the bill was
slipped through the legislative vacu
um, called through courtesy the "Sen
ate," is a striking illustration of what
capitalist parliamentary machinery
may accomplish when genuine legisla
tive efficiency experts control the
power.
Just before the "Senate" took final
ction on the big bill, Sheppard, of
Texas, an agrarian anti-mileage Sen
ator, started to indulge in a bit of par
liamentary sabotage. But (Jallinger,
of New Hampshire, was qualifying as
presiding officer, and Gallinger
promptly sabotaged the would-be sa
botager.
Objects to One Item
"Mr. President," said Sheppard, "on
page 2 there is an item appropriating
$51,000 for mileage for Senators. I
wish to make a point of order against
that item."
"Inasmuch art the item in question
was in the bill when it came from the
House, the point of order is overruled,"
exclaimed Gallinger. "The question
is, shall the bill pass. Those in favor
say 'aye,' opposed 'no.' The 'ayes'
have it, the bill is passed, and the Sen
ate will take a recess until Monday at
12 o'clock meridian."
Ninety-six Senators pay themselves
$26 a day for holding down this job of
lawmaking. During the "considera
tion" of this bill the absenteeism ran
from seventy-six to eighty-four. On
the final vote twenty Senators were
present out of ninety-six.
MAY DAY CELEBRATION
IN SEATTLE
The Socialists, combined labor and
radical organizations of Seattle will
celebrate May Day (International La
bor Day) on Sunday, April 30th, at
Dreamland, Seventh and Union, com
mencing at 2:' Mp. m. Comrade L. E.
Katterfeld will speak. A good musi
cal program will be another feature of
the celebration. Admission free. In
the evening, at 8 o'clock, a social
dance will be held. Admission fiOc;
ladies free. You are invited.
JAMES P. THOMPSON
National Organizer of the I. W. W.
will speak in The Forum, Sunday aft
ernoon, April 28. The subject will be
"Work, Overwork and Unemploy
ment." Admission is free and the
lecture commences at ~ p. m.
Comrade Ryan Walker informs us
that he hud capacity meetings at iJay
ette, Caldwell and Nainpa, Idaho, and
that people were turned away.,
The Indpeendent Table Supply Co.
want your trade.
THIRTY MILLION ARE UNDERPAID
AND GO HUNGRY, 11. S, REPORT
Ovtrwork, Coupled With low
WagCS,'l mleniiinin". Health
of Toilers
Overwork and underpay are the
principal forces at work in breaking
down the health of American working
men and women.
This is the conclusion of the United
States Public Health Service in a bul
letin just published dealing with the
effects of modern industrial condition I
upon the lives and happiness of 80,«
000,000 American wage earners.
Dr. H. S. Warren, surgeon, and Ed
gar Sydenstricker, statistician, of the
Public Health Service, are the authors
of Public Health Bulletin No. 7(i, en
titled "Health Insurance, Its Relation
to the Public Health," which shows
the Conditions in American industry
today. This report recommends a
plan for Compulsory health insurance
of wage earners, to be administered by
the State and Federal governments.
Its outstanding feature, however, is
the indictment of present-day social
and economic conditions.
"Each of the 30,000,000 workers in
the United States loses on the average
about nine days every year on account
of sickness alone," says this report.
The causes of disease are given as fol
lows:
Occupational Discuses hlmncd
The occupational hazards of disease.
irregularity of employment, unhealth
ful conditions of living, the employ
ment of women in industry under mod
ern conditions of work, particularly of
married women, and the economic dis-
THE NEED OF SOCIALIST FAITH
.MAN BECOMING HIS OWN EVOLVER
By George v. Herroa.
Yes; the world will be unto man according to his possession or
lack of faith. It is because of our social unbelief, and without refer
ence to our professed religions, that the civilization we call Christian
is so grossly materialistic, in motivity as well as action. By the very
nature of this civilization, the thoughts and the emotions of men nre
absorbed in the struggle for bodily existence. So long us the capitalist
society endures, mankind of necessity thinks and acts in terms of ma
terial loss and gain; and so long as we so think and act, we shall be a
world of brutish modes and tragic issues. And if the prevalent unbe
lief in life increase, if social skepticism further abound, the degrada
tion of the nations will deepen accordingly. But if we come to think
and act in terms of spiritual quality, making material forms the joy
ful expression of the soul's free energy, then our life will enter upon
its unretui ning evolution—there will be a real ascent of man.
Nor if this in conflict with the economic Interpretation of society
and history. Society has hitherto evolved, it is true, under the scourge
of economic pressure or necessity. Evolution, thus far, is unshep
herded by social choice, by faith and intelligence. Yet every revolu
tion or true reform, every new and commanding faith, is in the direc
tion of man's becoming his own evolver and creator. Kvery uplifting
light or law perforces, in the place of the evolution that is blind and
chanceful, an evolution that is chosen anil humanly directed. And
Socialism is a deliberate proposal to lay the will of man upon the un
folding processes and ends of nature and history. It invokes the faith
that shall be equal to the acceptance of its proposal of its supreme
challenge to the universe.
It was Karl Marx, the revealer and Interpreter of economic cause
and effect, who above all others predicted the Socialist program upon
faith—upon the belief of the proletary in the program's Immediate
'practicability. The commonwealth of workers can come only through
their confidence therein; it haH to be believed in before it can be estab
lished. The world must become Socialist in faith before it can become
Socialist in fact. No economic determinism, no capitalist catastrophe,
can force man into the commonwealth, or force the commonwealth up
on man. There will have to be Socialists, and Socialists of the right
sort and numbers, before there can be Socialism. The end of (he capi
talist catastrophe might well be, if there be not a sufficient Socialist
faith in the world, the catastrophe of the human—the descent of the
world into the pit.
ELEVEN GOOD MEN
Failed to Help Him—
Goes Hack to Prison
WALLA WALLA, Wash. Eleven
times he got •» job and held it until-—
He told his employer he was on pa
role from a reformatory.
Then, one after another, the eleven
discharged him.
Not because he wasn't making good.
Simply because he had committed a
crime — stealing some meerschaum
pipes from a cigar store. The State
was giving him another chance to be
a man.
And so, when no one would give him
the chance to redeem himself, George
Cole, 26, and seriously in need of
money for iH-resities, forged a $6
check.
Now he goes to the penitentiary.
Coes to the penitentiary as a con
firmed criminal because II good men
were too good to let his hard work,
loyalty, honesty and desire to atons
for his lapse over-balance the theft of
some meerschaum pipes!
Comrade Marvin Sanford, of Oat
land, Cal.j sends in a dollar to help in
the good work in Washington.
EVERETT, WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, APRIL 20, L 916.
advantage at which a large proportion
<>f wage workers and their families
arc placed as the result of low wanes
am! insufficient annual income.
The report makes it clear thai "eco
nomic disadvantage" as a cause of
disease overshadows all the rest. For
example! Inadequate diet is set down
as the first of "ohhealthftii conditions
of living," and the report says:
"Income statistic, published by Fed
eral and Stale governments in the last
few years indicate that a considerable
proportion of the families of Wage
workers have not been able to main
tain a diet that will provide for propel'
nourishment,
"A larger proportion can maintain
an adequate diet only at the sacrifice
of healthful environment and of other
items which go to constitute a rea
sonable standard of living. There can
be no doubt that nourishing food Is
sacrificed in a large number of, in
stances in older to obtain some of the
comforts and amusements and to grat
ify some of the wants which are en
tirely natural and to be expected of the
average American."
I.ess Thau Hall Enough
"All examination of a number of
Studies of the budgets of American
WOrkingmen's families indicates that
the point of adequate subsistence is
not reached until the family income is
about $800 a year," the report con
tinues. "Less than half of the wage
earners' families in the United States
have an annual income of that size, ac
cording 1° a" statistics of income for
workingmen'a families."
FAVORITE RECITATIONS
Before leaving the .state Comrade
Mrs. (!. 11. Lockwood left us several
copies of her "Book of Favorite Reci
tations," and we are now offering
them for sale through this office.
The book la "dedicated to the
Working Class iii Revolt" and is well
gotten up. It is printed on good pa
per and full of illustrations. It is
"different" from other Looks of reci
tations in its makeup and contains
the following poems: This Is My
Duty; The World's Need; Progress;
The Sack of Hour; Cod Give Us Men;
Thanksgiving Song; Two Hands; The
Honest Burglar; Who's Who; The
Calf-Path; Once iii a While; The
Workers; Two Horses; Who Is a So
cialistI.'; Have You Heard About Per
Capita?; The March of the Hungry
Men; The Souk of the Factory; Broth
erhood; The Broader Brotherhood; My
i ... .1; The Little White Hand; It Must
Be Cettled Right; The Turn of the
Road; Inasmuch; Reform; Requiem;
ThXn and Now; Courage; The Gates of
the Future; But One Leads South.
The price of the hook, containing 32
pages, is 26c, postpaid. Send to this
office at once for a copy.
JuMt what you want! Mule Skin
• il<" rH. Him them I rum A (In in Hill,
li'l2'l Colb) Air., 50c a pair.
THE
NEWS IN BRIEF
AI.HANY. Autmblymaii Abraham
I. Shiplacoff "pfljt one over" on the
Legislature by distinctly establishing
his position in t lie Aisembly as ii So
ciallii member. Hming a discussion,
after leaders of both majority and mi
nority had spoken, Bhiplacoff demand
oil the right ly addles the House. Ob
: j<'cii(in whs made on the ground ihui
both sides had Aired their views,
whereupon Shiplauff retorted Miat he
was "liis own leader." lie J and
made his speech. I
Fruir/. Men1 ring, for many yfars an
associate editor Of The Neve Zcit, the
icientific organ of the German Social
Democracy, chief historian of the Ger
man Socialist movement, and most
brilliant journalist of the European
Socialist movement, has reached his
leventieth birthday. The German So
cialist movement owes him much and
is fully aware of it. His birthday has
been the occasion for many expres
sions of regard for the old fighter.
GLASGOW. The Clyde Workers'
committee, which for some time has
resisted the attempts of the govern
ment commissioners to abolish union
conditions in munition factories, has
aroused the bitter hatred of the im
perialists and, by trying to call a
strike for the purpose of protecting
the unions, has laid itself open to
charges of treason.
HOME. Advices received here say
that several women were killed in re
cent disorders in Vienna, Prague,
Trieste and Agram. Crowds of wom
en attacked the government offices,
demanding bread ;'nd the conclusion of
peace. The troops were called out and
filed upon the crowds, killing1 several
of the women.
WINNIPEG, Manitoba.- -True bills
igainst former Premier Kedmond Kob
lin and his associates, charged with
complicity in Parliament buildings
graft, were returned by the Grand
Jury at Winnipe.j?.Assizes. The indict
ments constitute an important legal
step toward actual trial of the accused
ex-Ministers. In addition to Sir Red
mond, James h.TT-wdeir, former At
torney General, and George E. ('old
well, former Minister of Education,
were indicted.
ALBANY. -Assemblyman Shipla
coff introduced two labor laws in the
Legislature. One of the bills is spe
cific in its nature and aims to amend
a certain feature of the Compensation
law. The other is rather general in
its nature, and, if enacted into a law,
would probably accomplish more good
for the coming generation of the State
than any other law passed during the
present Legislature, says its author.
This bill provides that the age limit
for employing children should be
raised from 14 to It!.
The farmers around Chicago made
good their threats to dump milk into
the ditches rather than see it go to the
dealers who have refused to meet their
demands for a 11-cent increase in
price. The dealers found their bot
tling plants closely picketed by farm
ers armed with eggs and other mis
siles ready to prevent the delivery of
any milk by seceding farmers. All the
companies except the Borden Co, have
given in to the farmers.
LONDON.—The British army in
France, which numbered 00,000 in
August, 1914, now numbers 2,500,000.
TRENTON, N. J.— The Court of
Pardons has announced that it had de
cided not to giant a parole to Patrick
L. Quinlan, who is serving a two to
seven year term in the State Prison
here in connection with the Paterson
silk strike of 1913.
WASHINGTON. — Investigation is
under way by agents of the Depart
ment of Justice into statements re
ported !o have been made at Lexing
ton, Ky., by W. E. 1). Stokes, a New
York millionaire, to the effect that he
was backing Felix Diaz, nephew of the
late (»en. Porfirio Diaz in the revolu
tion which the younger Diaz is said to
have launched in Southern Mexico
against the Carranza government.
Sheboygan, Wis., Socialists elected
11. ('. Hinze, Alderman, and Adam
Mueller, Supervisor, both for the Sev
enth Ward, and ('. Guehlsdorf, Super
n the Eighth Ward, i
cent tiiy election.
Hasea Stout, Wei! krmwu Socialist
at Glendale, ArUona, was elected to
Ihi I it y Council of that city at the last
election, receiving a majority of four
ovei his opponent. Comrade Stout is
the first Socialist to sit in the Glen
dale (lity < lounc.il.
Mention the Northwest Worker al
when doing your ahoppjinf.
OVVNKI) AND CONTROIXKI) KY THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF SNOHOMISH COUNTY
SOCIALIST SAYS RUSSIA IS
FACING SERIOUS TROUBLES
People Art' Restless and Threat
en to Rise Against Czar
Nicholas
Russian circles are profoundly
stirred by the following statements
made by the Socialist representative
Tscheidse in the Russian duma:
"What have we achieved during the
last IK months of war?" asked the So
cialist. Amid incredible losses of blood
we approached the slogans which the
government had given out in the be
ginning of the war. liut the slogans
Were different then from those we
hear today.
"Daring these IK months of blood
shed and perpetual suffering we have
been overwhelmed wilh the most
shameless lies ever spread in the his
tory of the nation. Whole nations have
been staked on false cards, ulthough
they woie built up during centuries of
civilization.
"Now we ate consoled with the hope
that the war Is not over yet, and that
it is only just begun. But has not the
war been already one of victories for
our opponents? Belgium, Serbia,
Montenegro and Poland are devastat
ed, and the people of Grusinia and the
Mohammedans are still worse off.
They have been wiped off the earth.
Greece, Roumania, Persia are facing
the same fate.
"What has become of our great
ideals? Those who used to be for dis
armament are today assuming the at
titude of Markov. Instead of interna
tional arbitration courts, we see piracy
and treason on the throne.
Tricked to the Trenches
"It will not do to put all the blame
on the Germans. Our own govern
ment is wiping its feet on internation
al laws. The war cry of the allies is
not national freedom and the harmony
of all classes. On the contrary, indus
trial labor has been militarized under
the cloak of patriotic phrases. The
policy of annexation and imperialism
A BOOST FROM RYAN WALKER
Boise, Idaho.
Deal- Comrade:—
I hope the Socialists and workers of the West will
lend their best efforts toward making the North-west
Worker a financial success. It is an editorial success,
ably edited and worth while in every way.
It always has SOMETHING in it." In today's is
sue (April 6) I find two valuable items for picture use
—in fact some of the best Henry Dubb pictures have
been suggested by brain jolters in the Northwest
Worker.
Give the paper a 50,000 circulation and it will do
wonders. Fraternally,
RYAN WALKER.
LECTURES HELD
DURING NEXT WKEK
Comrade L. E. Katterfeld is now in
the field delivering a lecture on "The
Dawn of Plenty." Following are his
dates for April and May. Look for
the date in your locality and then
pitch in and help make the meeting a
rousing success. Sell tickets, or bet
ter still, subscription cards. Comrade
Kattt'i feld is a lecturer of ability, was
manager of the National Lyceum
Course, has lectured all over the Unit
ed States, and is our candidate for
Governor, and it is up to you to get
the people out to hear his message.
Remember the women will also be in
terested.
Friday, April 21 — Everson.
Saturday, April 22—Bellingham.
Sunday, Ap. 23 (2 p.m.)—Anti-War.
Sunday, April 23 (8 p. m.) —Ouster.
Monday, April 24—Lyndon.
Tuesday, April 26 -Sumas.
Wednesday, April 26- -Echo Valley.
Thurhday, April 27—Clipper.
Friday, April 28 — Bryant.
Saturday, April 29—Open.
Sunday, April 80 (p p. m.) —Seattle.
Sunday, April 3U (8 p.m.)—Monroe.
CLASSIFIED
"Please stop at Regent Street!" said
the passenger inside the bus, curtly.
"Right, sir!" replied the conductor,
obligingly.
Presently he rang the bell, and the
stopped in tlu- if it widi
and very muddy street.
" ttaiU the
ductor.
"Can't you drive a little closer tv
the curb" growled the fussy passenger
as he prepai ed to alight.
"Right, sir!" said the con conductor
again. Then he shouted loudly to the
driver: "Pull up closer to the pave
ment, Bill! The gent cleans his own
hunts!" Tit Hits.
is the aim of the allies, not the libera
tion of Europe from Prussian militar
ism.
"We Socialists indorse the position
of the Zimtnerwald conference, we
make war on war, we are for peace
without annexations and without war
indemnities.
Bureaucracy in the Saddle
"Bureaucracy Is united by bonds of
| blood with those elements which ex
pect from this war a return to the
darkness in the seventeenth century.
We are living in the richest country of
Europe, but we are suffering for the
lack of coal, wood, bread and meat.
We are face to face with the terrible
catastrophe of a reduction of the tilled
area, and our supply of cattle is being
exterminated.
"In the present crisis, we witness a
disorganization of our transportation
system. We are without railroads and
factories, without technical experts,
without specialists. To offset these
losses, we have only an administration
which is truly classic in its incompe
tence and corruptness.
"The government is mobilizing the
industries, and its aim is merely to
rob the people. The government claims
to work for the improvement of labor
conditions. In reality the goveinment
ordered those unforgettable assaults
on the workers in Tula and Ivanovos
nesik, and it orders new arrests of
workers every day.
Workers Must Get Control
"The militarism of industry is mere
ly a veil for the militarization of the
workers. And this means slavery.
"Now we have only two possibilities:
Either with the people against the
government, or with the government
against the people. It is our duty to
tear out of the hands of the usurpers
the power to harm the people, to make
the people supreme. If we do not do
this, then our country will face a social
and economic ruin. The people alone
can save our nation, and in order to
do so, they must act quickly."
OLD PRESS COMMITTEE
RE-ELECTED SUNDAY
The old press committee of the
Northwest Worker was re-elected from
a list of ten nominations at the con
tention held in the Forum last Sunday.
The committee consists of Peter
Husby, W. L. Carman, Carl Ulonska,
C. P. Morrison and H. W. Watts.
These comrades will continue to guide
the destinies of the paper for the next
year.
Local secretaries are requested to
see that all the information contained
in their Local Directory, published in
this paper, is correct. If it is not,
kindly notify us.
Comrade Conant of Auburn says
that Comrade Hunton's poem, "If I'm
to Be a Soldier," is a dandy and that
parents ought to teach their children
that poem so that they can recite it
in school and at parties. The poem
was published in last week's issue.
The i adical students at the leading
gills' colleges of the country have
made themselves obnoxious. Vassar
and Wellesley have been more troubled
by the plague of radicalism than Yale
and Harvard. The women students
have shown a deplorable tendency, to
think for themselves.
This is to be ended. It will be end
ed not by expelling the radicals at
present in college, but by not permit
ting any more to enter.
Groun b «n jnnvhastHl i
work will soon commence on a build
ing which will be occupied exclusively
by the Butte Socialist Publishing Com
pany and the State and local organ
ization of the Socialist Party. Plans
for the building, which are now being
drawn, call for a structure that will be
suitable for the purpose of the Social
ist party of Montana, which is now ex
periencing a rapid and healthy growth.
SPLENDID SPIRIT
IN EVIDENCE
Snohomish County Convention
Has Large Representative
Attendance
With practically every local in the
county represented, the Snohomish
County Convention of the Socialist
Party met in the Forum Sunday, April
18th, The convention was called to
order at ten o'clock by County Secre
tary Ulonska. Much routine business
was promptly disposed of and the con
vention listened to the annual report
of the work performed in the county
during the past year. The report
showed that Snohomish county had
more than held its own in propaganda
and organization work during the past
year. The convention gave consid
eration to the subject of Socialist
Study courses and report was submit
ted by the Executive Committee on
this subject.
The following' comrades were nomi
nated by the convention for the Coun
ty Executive Committee: Charles
Roth, Lakewood; R. W. Thompson,
Monroe; W. E. Cady, Pleasant Hill; J.
H. Gilmore, Birmingham; E. B. Cas
well, Arlington; Bell J. Kietel, Birm
ingham; George Bartlett, Richmond
Precinct; Mike Kronholm, Bryant; J.
M. Salter, Everett, and W. J. Fortson,
Home Acres.
Nominations for County Board of
Trustees were as follows: H. Leister,
Edmonds; B. Burton, Arlington; W. S.
Keller, Monroe; A. H. Hansen, East
Stanwood; P. G. Crosby, Everett, and
Otto Anderson, Everett.
For County Secretary: W. J. Moody,
Monroe, and S. V. Bonnevie, Evei-ett.
A splendid example of co-operation
was shown by the members of the con
vention in the unqualified endorsement
of the work of the Northwest Worker
Board of Trustees by their re-election
' as members of the Press Committee.
Comrades Morrison, Carman, Ulonska,
' Husby and Watts were elected as
' members of the Press Committee. A
vote of thanks was extended the com
mittee upon motion of the convention.
. Carl Ulonska and J. M. Salter, as
J a special committee from the Rxecu
• tive Committee, presented to the con
) vention the plan of harmonizing the
| press activities of the State. The
• convention voted that the State Or
• ganization shall take ownership of the
I Northwest Worker when the State can
| show itself out of debt and a paid-up
• circulation of five thousand subucrib
, eis. The convention by a unanimous
I vote endorsed the County Executive
; Committee's plan of county autonomy
• and urged the locals to give the mat
, ter their earnest support and co-op-
I eration. The convention also voted to
• call a mass convention of the Snoho
• mish County membership to nominate
! candidates for the county political
I ticket on May 21 in Everett. All mem
' bers are requested to be present at
this mass convention.
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
The following resolutions were
adopted at the convention of the So
cialist Party of Snohomish County,
Sunday, April IG, 1916:
Be it Resolved, By the Socialist Par
ty of Snohomish County, Wash., in
convention assembled this Kith day of
April 1916: That we favor a short
platform, both State and National,
cutting out all surplus verbiage, which
a only confusing and designed to catch
votes.
Be it Resolved, That the Socialist
I'arty of Snohomish County owes to
Comrade Maynurd Shipley, late editor
of The Northwest Worker, a vote oJ'
thanks and appreciation of services
given freely for a mere pittance for
nearly three years, during which time
he raised our County paper to a place
among the highest of the propaganda
press of the movement, and bespeak
for him the hearty support of the
Comrades everywhere in his illustrat
ed lecture tour.
Be it Resolved, That in the North
west Worker the Socialist Party of
Snohomish County has the nio.st effi
cient weapon for fighting the capital
ist system that we can have and that
we do not favor turning the papei
to the State Office before the State
has demonstrated Its ability to conduct
a paper in at least as efficient a man
ner as our County owned pr«
Resolved, That the Congressman for
this district, and the U. S. Senators
for Wa ihington be requested to use
theii influence to have the report of
the Industrial Relations Commission
printed in sufficient quantity for gen
eral circulation.
Be it Resolved, That we condemn
the Non-Partisan League as being de
signed lo hamper the Socialist m
ment by confusing the, mind,, of the
workers with fake issues.
If it'H a new range that you want,
be sure and sue the Lang Mange tint.
They are located at 1418 Hewitt in
No. 276.
