BARRE
AILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 31.
HAR11E, VERMONT, THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1016.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TH
RUSSIA SENDS
STRONG FORCE
TO AID FRENCH
PLOT UNCOVERED
TO INCITE REVOLT
THROUGH CHINA
Soldiers of the Czar in Large Num
bers Disembarked at Marseilles To
dav and Will Be Sent to the Front
to Oppose the German Invasion Says
. Paris Report
Germans and Austrians Seized from Mail
Liner Were Said To Be Headed for
United States Plot Not Yet
Snuffed Out.
London, April 20. As the result of the
seizure ,f Gorman unci Austrian subjects
aboard tlio China, a mail liner, last ten
rnury, while hound from Slmni? lini for
the I'nited States, tin) intelligence de
partment of tlie British government
claims to have uncovered a plot ot im
mense ramifications, conducted with the
GERARD
GETS
NOTE
EARLY RUMOR OF WAR
NOW COMES TRUE
This is the First Time Since the War
Started Nearly Two Years Ago That
Russian Troops Have Been Sent On
Campaign Away From Their Im
mediate Territory
Russia has come to the aid of France and Great Britain in the
-great struggle on the western front. The arrival of strong Russian
troops at Marseilles is announced in Paris. The Russians are be
lieved to have embarked for France from the port of Archangel on
the White sea, the only port through which there is free communi
cation between Russia and the allies in the west. "
It is considered probable that the transports carrying the troops
made a wide sweep out into the North Atlantic ocean before head
ing for the Mediterranean, to avoid the submarine danger zone in
the vicinity of the British isles.
Word reached New York to-day through private cable advices
that Russia has closed the port of Archangel to all except govern- j
ment traffic. This may indicate that other troop movements from
Archangel to the western front are either under way or contem
plated. '
Paris, April 20. A strong force of Russian troops disembarked
at Marseilles at noon to-day. The Russians are to fight beside the
allies' soldiers in France.
General Joffre welcomed the Russians in the order of the day,
saying that their arrival was another striking proof of the devotion
of Russia to the common cause.
purpHo of causing a revolution in china American Document f rom
Ihe American headquarters of the
President Wilson Reached
Berlin Last Evening, and
It Probably Will Be Hand
ed to the German Foreign
Office This Afternoon -
plotters are said to be cm the Pacific
coiiBt. At least the ship is known to
have sailed from San Francisco with a
tier man crew and the Indian conspirators
and arms abroad.
The headquarters of the plot in the
Orient are at Shanghai, and when the
gun running ana other machinations
were uncovered, according to the author
ities here, the plotters set sail on the
steamer Chirm.
British officials say they believe that
Franz Bonn, the German consul general
at San Francisco, participated in the VON BERNSTORFF
jtiiiiy, inc. wmiuue oi me. jihi ttv luo
China did not end the plot, according to
the oliicialH, who declare that all its
ramifications are not yet traced. They
state, however, that enough is known to
check any possibility of trouble in India.
AND LANSING CONFER
BAIL ORDERED FORFEITED.
In Case of Nuncio Massaro, Charged with :
Robbery.
Rutland. April 20. .Joseph Martin of
Rutland was found guilty by jury in
Rutland county court yesterday of bur
glary in breaking into the store of N. M.
M. Burr in the town of Rutland a few
weeks ago, Frank Fogarty and Thomas
I. Roberts of i'oultney both pleaded
guilty to the charge of burglary by
breaking into tlie summer cottage of J.
McArthur of Granville, IS. V
It Is Announced That the
Purpose of the Meeting in
Washington Is to Discuss
the Submarine Matter and
to Consider the Arrest of
Von Igel in New York
MYSTERIOUS FIRE
IN MUNITIONS
SHOP IN RUTLAND
Berlin, via London. April 20. The
and American note arrived in Berlin yester-
were fined $100 and costs of $8 each. The day evening, and Ambassador Gerard
fines were suspended by Judge Frank L. "probably .will present it to the foreign
Fish and the men were placed on vroba- oineo.tnia afternoon.
tion for a year on payment of the costs. Washington, D. U., April 20. Count
Bail of $1,000 was called and ordered on uernstorn went to me state depart
forfeited in the case of Nuncio Massaro, ment to-day for a conference with Set:
who is charged with robbery of Donien-
loo Ragosto.
PAYS $1,000 FOR COW.
J. H. O'Brien Sets Record Price at Bel
lows Falls Sale.
retary Lansing on the submarine war
fare situation and also to discuss the
jarrest in New York of Wolfe Von Igel,
secretary of the former German military
attache, Von Pa pen.
Secretary Lansing and Ambassador
Von Bernstorff were in conference about
20 minuted and afterwards neither would
Bellows Falls, April 20. One thousand make any statement.
ulars wa paid here yesterday tor a
our-ycar-old registered Molstein i'o'i I VftV TIP'R'VQ'T'IT?!?!?
f
which w as bred by H. (J. Wiley of Ches
ter. This was the record price at a two
day sale here and was paid by J. 11.
O'Brien of Walpole, X. If., who also paid
$.125 for a six-nionth-old daughter of the
$1,000 cow.
A pair of heifers was hid off by L. C
Lovell of Bellows Falls for .20."
F. H. Metealf of Ilolyoke, Mass., paid
the high price Tuesday, when he bid $W
for a four-year-old cow. He bought 17
CABLES GERMANY
OF SITUATION
It Is Understood Iliat He Advised His
Government That the United States
Meant Just What President
Wilson Said.
v.,.i,;.. li i' Am.it on -".,
purebreds and paid a total of $2.03.1. Vo .tit. tw .rman ambassador,
FRENCH START OFFENSIVE
ON RIGHT OF MEUSE
Paris, April 20. The French troops took the offensive last night
in the Verdun region on the right bank of the Meuse. The war
office announcement this afternoon says they captured part of the
German trenches, occupied a redoubt and took several hundred
prisoners.
attended the sale.
BRITISH TRENCHES
OVER 600 METRES
ARE OCCUPIED
Germans Made Extensive Gain Between
Langemarck and Ypres in Bel
gium, According to Ger
man Statement.
Berlin, via London, April 20. British
trenches for a distance of 600 metres, be
tween Langemarck and Ypres in Belgium,
have been occupied by German troops,
according to the official statement to
lay. GERMANS WERE EJECTED.
trenches at several points on the front
were repulsed by our infantry and by
nana grenade attacks.
"Eastern theatre There have been
lively artillery duels and patrol engage
ments in the northern section of the
front.
"Balkan theatre There is nothing to
report."
After Entering French Trenches at Les
Esparges,
Paris, April 20. The French official
statement last night was as follows:
"West of the Meuse there was con
biderable artillery activity against Hill
o.j J l: u..i....; I - m .1 i-f;ir.iiK
o,, ...u uCi.vee ,x '""0ffi(.ini statement thi
nomine ana itimieres.
BRITISH CABINET
IS AGREED ON
RECRUITING
Proposals of the Cabinet Will Be Pre
sented at Secret Session of Each
House of Parliament.
London, April 20. At a meeting to
day of the British cabinet, an agreement
was reached upon proposals which the
ministers will make to Parliament on
the subject of recruiting. Their proposal
win be submitted at a secret session at
each house of Parliament Tuesday.
The foregoing was announced in an
afternoon.
SOME CHANGES AT BURLINGTON.
Howard Resigns as Editor of The Ad
vance Howard & Co.'s SLore Closed.
Burlington, April 20.Arthur Piatt
Howard, former mayor of Salem, Mas.,
who came to Burlington some months
ago to be editor of The Advance, a week
ly journal, has resigned from that posi
tion. Mr. Howard states that he is ar
ranging to publish a new weekly in some
other county in Vermont.
Howard &, Co.'s candy store on Main
street has been closed, the Daily News
having attached stock and fixtures on a
claim of $100 for rent.
MONTPELIER
A "Clean Up and Paint Up" Campaign is
Proposed.
The civic committee of the hoard of
trade met last evening with a group of
citizens interested in the proposed cam
paign to "clean up and paint up," and
although less than a dozen persons gath-
red in the memorial room of the city
hall, enthusiasm made up for the lack
of numbers and plans were made to ap
point committees for the arrangement of
the work.
sent to Berlin last night a long dispatch
interpreting the situation in Washington
and making certain recommendations.
He is understood to have advised his gov
ernment that he believed the United
States meant just what it said in its
submarine note, and that something
would have to be done quickly if tnendly
relations were to continue.
The minister himself, having read the
address of tlie president and the note
said :
"I can make no comments either upon
the address or upon the communication
which lias been sent to my government.
However, he was authoritatively de
scribed as having advised the Berlin for
eign office, in the message sent last night
that he believed at leant some such dec
laration as that made .Tan. 7 regarding
the conduct of submarine warfare' in the
Mediterranean sea should lie issued im
mediately, to cover all submarine opera
tions.
One Building of the F. R. Patch Co. Was
Entirely Consumed, the Loss Being
$23,000 Much Other Property
Was Endangered.
luiuanu, April 20. "Xlie lire was
caused by an explosion, the causo of
wincii we do not know," declared Presi
dent F. R. Patch of the-F. R. Patch
Manufacturing company, one of whose
buildings was destroyed by fire late yes
terday afternoon when the lives of 100
workmen were endangered. Mr. Patch
characterized as unlikely the reported
cauBO as the dipping of an overloaded
shell into oil. The plant is encased in
turning out shells for the entente ullien.
Ihe loss is $25,000.
Ihe fact that there was little or no
wind blowing at the time probably pre
vented a much more disastrous tire. As
it was, many other buildings in thu
neighborhood, including six dwelling
houses, caught fire from sparks or from
the intense heat to which they were sub
jected. TheRe were saved only by the
hardest kind of work by the city depart
ment, the Patch company's privato ap
paratus, volunteer bucket brigades, sev
eral garden hoses and every other con
ceivable device for checking the spread
ot tne great mass of name which envel
oped the building when (he oil tank ex
ploded. A brick wall. 12 inches in thick
ness, prevented the flames from spread
ing to an adjoining building containing
tne engine room.
A gas explosion shortly after the fire
started blew out AO panes of glass in
tne windows of surrounding buildings,
frank Woods, au employe of the com
pany, shut off the gas main in a nearby
building in time to avert a serious ex
plosion. The electric current runnm
iw the plant was shut off some time be
fore the pole, heavily laden with wires:
toppled over to the ground.
The fire started shortly before three
o clock. Several minutes later, beforo
the fire department arrived and while
employes were striving desperately to
prevent the spread of the flames, the
oil tank exploded, sending a mass of
flame high into the air. It was seen
at once that the building was doomed
and the efforts of the firemen were di
rected chiefly to the prevention of a fur
ther spread of the flames, which threat
ened at times to destroy the entire plant.
The chemical truck rendered efficient
service, responding to at least four calls
to neighboring buildings which had
caught fire. The traveling crane con
necting the various buildings caught fire
several times, as did the buildings them
pelves, but by dint of tremendous effort
the names were held in check. Six
streams were applied to the fire, 3200
feet or hose being utilized.
CORDIAL WELCOME TO BARRE;
SELECTIONS NOT MADE.
if
East of the Meuse a violent bombard- ,i0,.j i, i, ii.i.I .. ;i x.
.... . uu. u. .ii.iMii lliliuriuii Will 11413
ment was carried out in the region of
Douaumont and St. Vaux.
"In the Woevre the day was calm in
the sectors at the foot of the Meuse
bills. At Les Esparges the enemy di
rected this morning three successive at
tacks against our positions, but thee
were all repulsed. In the course of the
last, attack the enemy, who succeeded
in getting a temporary footing in our
trenches on a front of about 200 meters,
was immediately driven out by our counter-attack,
which inflicted on him serious
losses.
"There was no noteworthy event on
the rest of the front."
GERMANS CAPTURED QUARRY.
Farm,
Located
South of Haudremont
East of the Meuse.
Berlin, via London, April 20. The re
port of yesterday from the war office
says that the stone, quarry south of
Haudremont farm, in the Verdun dis
trict, east of the Meuse, has been cap
tured by German troops, this complet
ing the success of the previous day.
Official statement says:
"Western theatre East of the Meuse
our troops during the night captured the
ftone quarry south of Haudremont farm,
thus completing the success of Monday.
A yreat many of the occupant fell in
feme bayonet engagement. More than
100 men and aereral machine guns fell
into our hand.
"A French counter attack against the
new German line mrthwet of Thiau
jnont farm failed, j
"Minor enemy infantry ilctaf bmenfs
which attempted to arprwitU our1
the effect of reopening the voluntary en
listment scheme for a month or six
weeks, to be followed by compulsion if
the necessary number of men demanded
by the army council is not forthcoming.
Labor leaders, however, demand that all
factj and figures regarding the military
situation and requirements be submitted
to the Commons before they consent to
any measure of universal conscription.
Mrs. John McLean of Court street
left last evening for Rochester, where
she will make a ten days' visit with rel
atives.
In probate court to-day, Luke C. Fish
er of Cabot was appointed executor of
the will of .Teannette Cunningham, late
of Cabot. The w ill of Orrin Daley, late
of Montpelier, was fihnl for probate.
C. A. G. Jackson, formerly of this city
and a well known newspaper man, now
connected with the Boston Sunday Her
ald, is making a brief visit in the city
with friends, being in Vermont to de
liver a hi'ture to-night at Norwich uni
veisity. He plans to return to Boston
to-night.
C. K. Cookson.'F- A. loung and Clar
ence Lull, employes of the Tenney com
VON PA PEN OFFICE
CALLED GERMAN
TERRITORY
Therefore, Declares Von Igel's Attorney,
tie U. S. Secret Agents Had No
Right to Intrude -He
Wants the Papers.
New York. April 20. Another demand
for the return of the pitpcrs seized in
the office of Wolfe Von Ipel, who is un
der indictment in the alleged German
plot to dctrny the Wcllund canal, was
made to-day upon I'nited States District
Attorney Marshall by the defendant's
attorney, who maintained that Von
Igel's office, formerly that of Captain
Yon Papen, was -in effect German terri
tory and that the intrusion of the I'nited
St;ite egents constituted au invasion.
I'nited State Attorney Marshall is
said to have replied that the matter rest
ed for decision with the Washington au
thorities ami meanwhile that he had no
alternative but to proceed with the case.
"1 Imve not even considered the release
of Yon Igel," Mr. Marshall continued.
License Commissioners Do Not Announce
Licensees.
Suspense among applicants for liquor
licenses wag not relieved to-day by any
cheering announcement from the license
commissioners, and as the board is to
convene in the council chamber at city
hall again this evening, the assumption
is that at least another day must elapse
before the awards are made. When the
commissioners made such short shrift of
the few protests registered at the hear
ing Tuesday afternoon, it was freely pre
dicted that the awards would lie made on
the following day. For one reason and
another, reasons which the commission
ers are not discussing, it appears that
finalities were not reached at the meet
ing last night. The chilly statement
that anotlter meeting will be held this
evening has only served to heighten the
suspense among many of the applicants
ART EXHIBIT OPENED.
Attractive Display Has Been Arranged
at Howland Hall.
At Howland hall this afternoon an in
teresting art exhibit opened under ths
auspices of the woman a club. Paint
ings, prints, drawings, moldings and
statuary were conspicuous in a very at
tractive display of articles loaned by
people about town. .Specimens from the
Harre evening drawing school, the public
schools and an exhibition of pottery,
loaned by the general federation of wom
en's clubs, arc also to be seen. Many
persons, apparently, have contributed
generously of their own art treasures in
order to make the exhibit a success. It
should be understood that no admis
sion is charged and that the public is
cordially invited to inspect the exhibit
either in the afternoon or this evening.
NEW COMMISSIONER SPOKE.
DEAD WHEN TAKEN
FROM UNDER AUTO
pany. left tins forenoon lor rpringiiei;, "The legality of his arrest was delinite
to attend the annual meeting of the Ver- ly settled, so far as my oftice is con
mont Electrical association. H. D. Lara-iccrncd. early to-day.
Joseph Morin Killed at Danvers, Mass,
and His Companion, Horace J.
Churchill of the Same City,
Was Seriously Hurt.
Danvers. Mass., April 20. Jo-eph M"rt
in of Salem was killed and Horace J.
Churchill of Salem was seriously injured
when their automobile was ove turned
early to-day at a sharp turn. Mor;n
was pinned beneath the car.
FATALLY HURT BY TRAIN.
V. 0. Kirby of Swanton Was Found Be
side the Track.
St. Alhan. April 20. Yeramus Oion
Kirby of Swanton. who found lie
side the Central Vermont railroad trs k
at Went Swanton on Tuesday and mho
was brought to the loml ho-pifjil, died
last Bight. Hi h a t -ri)-l,-1 in. in
dicating that he a struck lv a train
The body was taken V Swanton for
bnrial.
Iee, manager of the Montpelier and
Barre Light & Power Co.. who is presi
dent of the association, left last cteniiig
to attend the meeting.
Kntite Oatland, a granite worker, left
last evening fur Cleveland, (., where
he has secured employment.
The ladies of the lnier-alist church
held a very successful supper and enter
tainment at the church hist evening.
Snpjier was served from it to 7 and wo
followed lv a hort program. A consid
erable sum was reslied from the sal of
various articW on the tahle and the
supper was well attended. The program
consisted of a rr solo bv Miss Ifenri
Following Von Igel's arrest the pro
test of the (Jerman ambassador was made
to the secretary of state, and Mr. Jjui
ing referred the matter to the attorney
general's office. It is my opinion that
Von Igel never has liccn legally a mem
ber of the German emlay Hff."
SUSSEX NOT TORPEDOED.
A Swiss and An American Passenger
Make Affidavit.
Perlin. via London. April 2. The for
eign office transmitted vetrdv to the
American emby a sui pb-mcntarr note
in regard to the Sussex containing alTi-
etta Inghs. a reading by "lis Blam he jdavits sworn t bv a Swiss passenger
Tihlen. a oi by Louis Paine of Mont
pelier and the farce. "A Love of a Imiiv
nef, whuli wa a te.f tr six of the la
dies. The ol' and the reading were
eaih encored and the farce wis enthu-sia-ticailv
received. Mrs. M Farlaml had
charge of fie fam-ywotk table. Mrs.
on the Sussex that the staniKhip a
not torpedoed and al.-o a statement to
the same effect from an American pas
senger. '
Dr. Hillegas Talked to Middlebury Col
lege Students.
Middlebury, April 20. Dr. Milo G. Hil-
egas. ermont a new commissioner of
education, made his first public address
since election to the office, when he ap-
eared before Middlebury college stu-
lents yesterdav. He emphasized some
key thoughts of actual living, suggest-
j ing that a college student should get a
conception of a relative value and then
form ideas of his own. He emphasized
the prime importance of college students
knowing something of the big problems
of the day am having his own indepen
dent solution of them. Dr. Hillegas closed
by stating bis proposed policy in regard
to his work in Vermont. He said that it
was his intention to make a cleir track
for all the bovs and girls of Vermont, by
which they may go right through gram
mar school, high school, and then college.
This, he said, was one of the problems
confronting the college student leaving
Vermont's higher institutions of educa
tion, and he asked tlie co-operation of
Middlebury students in the solution of
this problem. After Dr. Hillegas had
spoken. IVesjdent Thomas assured him
that Middlebury students would give
him their support.
Extended to Rev. and'Mrs. B. J. Lipsky
at Hedding Church.
A reception of welcome was given to
Rev. and Mrs. B. J. Lipsky last evening
by the members of the Hedding M. E.
church, to which Mr. Lipsky has just
come to fill the place vacated by Dr. K.
F. Newell. A large number of people
from the Hedding church, as well as sev
eral persona who are members of other
churches in Barre and Montpelier, were
present. .
Shortly after 8 o clock the receiving
line was formed, consisting of Rev. and
Mrs. Lipsky, Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Morse,
Mr. and Mrs. K. M. Lyon and Mr. and
Mrs. Alfred Boyce. Mr. and Mrs. V J.
Oliver, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas liive, jr..
Mr. and Mrs. Glen Carpenter, Miss J'.va
Smith, Miss Lilla Iracv, George iv Julis
Harold Hawes, Emery Xewhall and C. S.
Andrews acted as ushers and presented
the guests to their new pastor and his
wile. . ' .
The first number on the program was
well-received piano duet by Misses
Hattie Gregory and Eileen Parks, after
which E, 11. Davis as master of cere
monies, introduced the speakers.
D. !. Morse welcomed the new pastor
and his wife in behalf of the members
of the church and promised for them the
same hearty co-operation which was
given to Mr. and Mrs. Newell. Miss Da
vis, the deaconess m charge of the .North
Barre mission, rapidly sketched for the
new pastor the history of the mission
and expressed the hope that he would
become interested in the work among the
Italian population of Barre.
A quintet consisting of Messrs. Good
fellow, Veale, Black more, J. Oliver, and
W. Oliver, sang a selection . and were
compelled to respond to an encore. Prin
cipal Hatch of Montpelier seminary was
then introduced. He explained to the
members of the church that it was in
their power to make or break; a new pas
tor by their attitude toward him an
the interest or lack of interest wine
they take in his work and begged the
Dcoule of this church to stand by the
new man as they did by Dr. NeWcll and
to give Itim their confidence and aid in
everything which he shall undertake.
Dr. Barnett, pastor of the Congrega
tional church, welcomed Mr. and Mrs.
Lipsky in behalf of the other churches
and extended to them the assurance tha
the place vacated in the circle of pas
tors and their wives bv Mr. and Mrs,
Newell was waiting to be filled by them
Miss Hatch of Montpelier seminary then
cave a reading, Mrs. Casey on Lawn
Tennis" and responded to an encore.
Mr. Lipsky was called upon. "There i
one ideal,' said Mr. Lipskv, "which I b'
lieve every pastor should have, and tha
is the kingdom of God. This is a great
er thing than the particular church with
which he happens to be affiliated or any
other interest which he may have," He
went on to say that it should be his en
deavor to build up his church, taking
his material as far as possible from those
people who are not affiliated or perhaps
are not at present interested in any
church. He said that he did not wish the
members of the Hedding church to give
him any of the love which they felt for
the retiring pastor but that he hoped
when he had proved himself, that their
icarts would expand and grant m addt
tion a similar love to him and his fain
'y-
A vocal solo by Miss Mack and a pray
er by Rev. J. B. Reardon of the Univers-
list church completed the program. Aft
er the program refreshments were served.
The committee in charge of the. recep
tion were as follows: Entertainment,
Mrs. E. M. Lyon. E. R. Davis; decora
tions. Mrs. D. J. Morse, Miss Alice Farn
ham: refreshments, Mrs. Powers, Mrs.
J. H. Johnson, Mrs. Ray Waterman and
Mrs. H. W. Scott.
MAKING HASTE
TO STRENGTHEN
ARMY BASES
While the American Punitive
Expedition Is Marking
Time in the Pursuit of
Villa Lines o' .Ynmuni
cation Arp v.o Looked
After '
IF TROOPS WITHDRAW
TROUBLE IS FEARED
It Is Expected That the Re
tiring Soldiers Will Be
Subject to Constant At
tack and to Sniping Re
treat Will Be Hazardous
MANY FRIENDS ATTENDED
Funeral of John Comolli Burial Was at
Hope Cemetery.
Many members of the Italian colony
in liarre gathered at 2 o'clock Wednes
day afternoon to pay their respects to
the memory of John Comolli. whose
death Sunday evening ifter a lingering
illness, removed a long time resiueni oi
Barre. The funeral was held at the
home of the. deceased. 4 Foster street.
The Italian Old Men's society, with
which Mr. Comolli was affiliated, was
largely represented, the bearers being
chosen from that organization as fol-
ows: Andrea Nicora, J. (ViMcrara. I.
Purichelli, Z. Manera, E. Oltolini and C.
Merlo. An escort from the society ac
companied the body to the graveside at
Hope cemetery.
A profuse floral offering included the
following tributes: Pillow, Mrs. John Co
molli and family; heart, Mr. and Mrs.
Jasper Comolli and family; sheaf of
wheat and roses, Mr. and Mrs. John
Magnaghi, Mrs. Madelina Magnaghi;
roses. K. Magnagni and tamiiy; wreatn.
Old Men's society; cross, Wells-Lamson
Co. and Jones Bros,; cross, Mr. and Mrs.
Comolli and family; wreath, Mrs.
Mary Sassi and family; carnations, Mr.
and Mrs. Leani. Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Sa
poriti and family, Mr. and Mrs. F'ernan
do Rossi. Francesco Del Loranzi and;
family. Mr. and Mrs. B. Luin hint, Miss
L. F.'Walker. Mr. and Mrs. L. O. Rizi
and family, Mrs. K. (Jerbetti and family.
A. H. Fasola. Mr. and Mrs. O. Boffino, i
Angelo Barafelli and family. Mrs. flari
oldi and family, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
l-amerti and family, Mr. and Mrs. S.
Rizi and family. Mr. and Mrs. Ceorse
Reid. Mr. ami Mrs. A. K. Malnati. Mrs.
EI Paso, Tex., April 20. While tha
American punitive expedition is making
time to-day in the pursuit of Villa, ef
forts are being made to strengthen the
army baaes and lines of communication.
Fears are openly expressed that should
the order come to withdraw the troops
Villa and the other murdering bandits
will raise the cry that the Americans
are retreating, with the result that the
American soldiers will be subject to con
stant night attacks and sniping. Tha
belief is general that the troops will en
counter more difficulties in withdrawal
from Mexico than they did in their rapid
400-milo drive from Columbus to Parral.
PIRIE GIVEN $4,060.89
By Jury in Suit Against Granite Sayings
Bank in County Court.
Returning once to request that a por
tion of the judge's charge be read, the
jury in Washington county court, after
5 o'clock yesterday afternoon, came in
with a verdict for the plaintiff to recov
er $4,060.89 in the ease of J. K. Pirie of
Williamstown vs. Granite Savings bank
of Barre(i having considered the evidence
lor over five hours. The case was tried
at the September term of court and re
sulted in a disagreement by the jury.
The plaintiff alleged that the bank was
indebted to him to the sum of $4,000,
the amount of a note given by Lowe fc
Mercer, former Montpelier granite manu
facturers, because of an agreement be-
ween the plaintiff and the bank relative
to collection. When the granite shed of
Lowe & Mercer was destroyed bv fire the
insurance money went to the bank to
over indebtedness but Mr. Pirie was un
able to collect on the note.
The jury returned for additional in
structions about 3 o'clock, being uncer-
ain as to whether $800 was to be de
ducted from the funds available at the
bank, due the Consolidated Lighting com
pany. If the $800 was to bo taken out,
the amount due the plaintiff would hava
been reduced to $:i,fi(12, but evidently tha
urv considered the evidence showed that
the full amount was available for pay
ment of the note and the verdict was
returned accordingly, with interest t
he 14th of March. Gordon, Hoar and
ay represented the plaintiff and Carver
nd Wishart the defendant bank.
Foley-Zanleoni Case.
The trial of the case taken up immedi-
tely after the disposal of tile hank case,
Clarence E. Foley vs. Charles and Mary
Zanleoni. is progressing slowly, cross-
examination of the first witness, tha
plaintiff, not being completed lint il late
us forenoon. So -slowly has the exam
ination been conducted that Judge But-
er was moved this forenoon to call at
tention to the necessity for more rapid
Ivancement.
The plaintiff sues to recover approxi
atelv $2,400, an amount he claims is
ue him fir construction work on the
building which is part of the Park thea
tre and the Zanleoni drug store. The
defendant avers that the block was not
finished according to specifications and
that much of the work had to be dona
over as a result.
SMALL COURT CALENDAR.
Vermont Supreme Court Likely To Ba
Short on May Term,
Washington county has but three cases
in a li-t of .V in the trial calendar for
the May term of supreme court, which
convenes in Montpelier Tuesday, May 2.
The calendar is one of the smallest to be
issued in some time and a large per
centage of the cases are ones that hava
iwen previously listed for hearings at
other terms and continued for divers
rejons.
The cas-a frm Wa-hington eoutity
B. Albisetti and family, Mr. and Mr.
A. pesi. Mr. and Mrs. Casani; roes, X.
1). Phelps Co.
DIED IN BURLINGTON.
Clerks' Notice.
There will I a rleiks" meeting at the
Wort hen ball Friday at 7:30 p. m. All
(clerks nim-t be present and regfer or
l.netits will md It granted. Per order
Kec. Sec.
M-s. Ffith Antin left the ctv to-dat
tor her summer home in t'aUi. where
;r i t.t nke a ! v ci eirt month-
A. E. Batchelder. a former Barre re,il
e.t,it' man, who i now conduct irz
i,.,- " i , .,- i . .t ..-i,. u r r -1 . ..i w , . i mi.niii-. ....
fhil ,ir-n's r..(i.;er, Mr, s. I. Alien i. sr.am II. Pitlm. a former n-n.lt ntjsa? in Ihitml.n. Ha., wrile. tliat Her
M'. Agn- Bra weie at tlie apron Jo' I'-arre. utnnwd Jo bt home in lwtoaj-ia ha j. been thr.m-h the inbt
table aid Mr. .Io!n Tie and Mr. " hwwws. after raiac a few diii'sinW .oti that she ha 4 tsifttrm-el
Kirby kutet bis wilt rl sis children. Lut!r ld fl at tie dvtnestic lable. ia this city and t .&! o hitiii. in
Barre Stonecutter Went There for an
Operation.
Cclotiiio Manayon. a granite cutter.
whoe home is n ISovnton street, died
at the Mary Fletvher ho-pital in Bur-
lington Wednesday afterrinon, the end
following a erious surgical operation to
which he submitted a few days ago. The
remains arrived in Rirre over the Cen
tral Vermont railroad at li:.V o'ebx k
fwllow : K. C. Bowers Orsnite Co. v.
Drew Daniels l.mnite Co., assumpsit;
William B. Turner vn. .. S. Xorman
deau; William Rumble vs. John W. Mc
IVmald ct al, anoimpfit. The only twn
cf-ate cases are Mate vs. Dan Xelson,
burglary, Orange county, and State vs.
f.iovanni Marino, murder, Rutland county.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A curtain rier for Goddsrd seminary'
lPlfi hi selia 11 sfawm was announced this
morning -.win after negotiation bad been
completed with the Norwich university
einnd team for a game on the campus
this afternoon and were taken to the ' "-atiinlav afternoon at 3 o clock. Efforts
undertaking otblihmrnt of IVrrv A to arrange a game with the cadet varsity
Noonan in IViot square and thence to team wre without reults. as the Nor
the home of the deceased. Mr. Manavrai j w idi men preferred to send their second
was 21 rears old. a nuthe of Satitander, ' team ;-int ti e Barre n-hontho) . fnr
Spain, and had been a resi j, nt of l-.rre t! e seminarians, the game will be in the
oulv a short time, lie is survived br hi
i and three chiMren.
Mineral i crn. e. !, pro!ul!v e he! '
jt the !ii-e Friday afternoon nt 2
nature ot a try ot lor a lars-e number
,.f candidates in a squad that t oarlt
lb'rr.le i bound l re !n,-e at m-n as
tie plater- hate t-en ori ia at ion on
o'clock. Irtermeiit will be iiude in Iior: lle firing line. A we k Inter .sI2ant
itujetiry. li Barre A. C
