-irejnicihi
Y"Q) '4-'-:" ' . ' V T
Western (Drolioa '.IDemocrat
VqL XXI II. NO 15
H ENDERSO N VILCE, N. G: THU RS DAY jPRIL 20, 1916
1.00 PER -YEAR, IN ADVANCE
-
.
'
I ANNUAL GOHTEST
WSS MYRTLE COOPER AND' BOYD
HARDEN TRIUMPH OVER 1,300
CONTESTANTS.
UNION'S BIGGEST CONTEST
.......rt Wade Gardner and David
Isear of Wilson. Tremendous
Crowd Packed in Hali.
Chapel Hill. The fourth annual con
pt of the High School Debating
Union characterized by President Gra- ;
bam as the biggest contest ever stag-1
ed in North Carolina, came to an end (
when the urauitiii aigu ouuui, -j
relenting the affirmative,
defeated
xiTson on the negative of the -query: J
..o00nivpd. That the United States
1
should adopt the policy of greatly an
4 larging its Navy."
The speakers for Graham were Miss
Myrtle Cooper and Boyd Harden, for
Wilson. Wade Gardner and David
Isear. - '
Concentrated and vitalizing inter
est from S4 North Carolina counties,
35 high schools and interested, aud
iences of 100,000 citizens of the Com
monwealth centered on the final out
come of the comprehensive statewide
debate.
The winners triumphed over 1,300
other debaters. The debate was de
signated by President Graham as "the
biggest influence today in North Car
olina in developing public opinion."
The tremendous crowd that packed
Memorial Hall was conclusive evi
dence of the success which has crown
ed Secretary E. R. Rankin's efforts.
Crowded automobiles came from all
parts of the entire state to hear the
All four debaters spoke" with strik
ing composure and" convincing style, j
Miss Cooper spoke
in charming: man-
ner. . . " ' ' " " "
She was sustained on the affirma
tive by Boyd Harden who frequent
ly brought rounds of applause at his
eprightly sallies.
The speech of Wade Gardner for
Wilson was far bigger than he him
self was. His sister, Miss - Ethel
Gardner, was on the "winning , Wilson
iit taai TXfflanrt ' Vio xrfrnr tYitt
All WINNER
distinction of being in the finals two'kas just returned home, after spend
years in succession. David Isear like-
wise had his facts carefully marshall
ed. All four of the speeches were
finished in style and delivery, and the
rebuttals were brilliant and pointed.
Miss Cooper said: "We do not ad
vocate preparedness for war, but
preparedness against war. We also
believe that should war come this
reasonable preparedness will prevent
enormous sacrifice of human life."
We are unprepared to fiefend ourselves
in case of attack. We have 21,000
miles of coast line and a rapidly in
creasing commerce to defend. Stand
ing by itself, a navy, is not; designed
for military aggression such "as the.
Invasion of another country. Its func-
tion on the ' xontrarvvls ' td-f del end -bur i
country and commerce" against such
aggression." v :
"The position of the United States
among the Powers ' Jnakes -'a" greatly
enlarged navy imperative. We cannot
ten what part.we Tmay .Qaye .10 ",age of fcae low prices and receive .
m the European war. The Monroe - oodg from tttJs well known firm. - :
Doctrine upon which our National por convenience of the custo- ,
safety depends, can only be upheld mers trade book? can be purchased,
by our power to control the sea in f rcm $2.00 to $20 books containing I
the Western Hemisphere." i coupons with which a person can use
W7ade Gardner of Wilson stressed the same as cash. If for any reason
four thincs- i
i n r,
- . v iii r-iii v a. w cz a aim j -
We already have a navy
passed only by England's; 2, we have
s: 2, we have
guoa reason to lear any omci
tions;
3, the proposed policy would,
destroy our world leadership for
righteousness and bring upon us war
itself: 4 ntTir m P.tiinda are within
our grasp by which we may effec- 'ever used in Hendersonville. Beside
tively and constructively promote using the newspapers a neat little fold-
Pear-e with hono- - -
with bono . i
H0TEL MAN EXPECTED HEBE i
TO LOOK OYER PROPOSITION.
1 J. Cambron Has Wired ThatHe Will:
Meet Secretary Boardof Trade; r
Bays Plans Goinar Forward., ' 'i
oays irxans wgorwo.;
-s wre4. secretary Bridges rtnat n-
cv;ts 10 come -iiere ana man-e
anjin A
r-: VJr v ?
r jrn notei in Henaersonyiiie. ..xu
"e 101(1 Bridges tnavxnepif uo
-uica were being drawn m unanoiw
by Mr. 'McMichael were
ripidlv. n
Pressing
Mr. Bridges has secured the Iasf'-bP;
Won desired which was one from Misa
forence Jordan who owns property on
Main street including in that which i
ftesirea tor the hotel site. v.
9
'
The Hustler this week begins
preparation for its 1916 Resort
and Good Roads Edition to be
the greatest that has ever come
rom its presses.. - . ...
An expert special Qiition man
has been secivred to assist in its
production and is now on the
ground, mapping out the cam
paign. The size of the product will be
materially' changed. Instead of
large, loose sheets, the pages
will be the size of the Saturday
Evening Post and stapled togeth
er, thus making it easier to han
dle and enhancing its value as a
souvenir and as an encyclopedia
of the climatic, scenic, hygienic,
commercial, industrial, educa
tional and agricultural resources
of Hendersonville and Henderson
county the resort ' paradise of
the Southern Appalachian High
lands. The magnificent industrial op
portunities of this section will
be stressed and the value of the
edition" to capitalists and pros
pective Investors will at least
efjual its value to tourists and
pleasure seekers.
We expect to print from 3,000 ;
"to 6,000 copies, depending upon
the support given by -our local'
live wires, and to -mail enough
copies locally to ?cover Hender
son like the dew," also to send
several thousand copies to
select list of Southern "worth
whiles," not forgetting the North
and West
This edition should be worth
$100,000 to our town and county.
Forty-eight pages are contem
plated. Phone No. 6 for reservations
of space.
.
BEAR WALLOW NEWS.
i
- (Special to The Hustler.)
Bear Wallow, April 19. J. C. Plank,;
and a party from Cherokee Fall, S. C,
. XI . iLt. r..MTnTT 1.
pwiivtiiAhfivnifi. .Afterward thev I
Mrs. S. G. Freeman, of Bessemer
V-,
City is visiting her parents, Mr. anl
Mrs. W. F. Huntley
Mrs. Huntley be-
ing very sick.
vLloyd Lynch and Rothie Brings
passed through this section Sunday '
on their way to Hendersonville. "They
were going from there, back to their
home at Fairview.
John McAbee, Hugh Neighborp and
others of Asheville, were here Sunday.
Mrs: W. S. Shitle of Hendersonvllie.
ing a -few days with her parents Mr.
and Mrs. J. M. Sinclair.
. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Long, of Fair
view, were in this section Sunday.
CONDUCTING SUCCESSFUL CASH
BUSINESS IN HENDERSONYILLE.
Southern Supply Company the Last to
Enter the Cash Plan of Conducting
Business; Successful Month. .
- 'That a' business can be conducted
successfully upon a cash basis in Hen-
dersonville has been demonstrated for i
tne past monin py. ue auuiuern, .puyyiy i
company This new concern has he&n. j
'dcine . a tremendous business every,!
work day since opening and have yet
the first man to credit. It matters not $
what his rating is in araasireet or
ar-ywhere else, he is treated just the
.StelS iS to tkeTadVanT
it is not aesirea .w iraue ul
tire book the tickets can be, redeemeu
v. , , '
"Y nn lT1 dlI' ment to buv books
svrnarxt- fnr rnnvfinience. ine iaOULn-
snnniv comnanuy is' just now con-
ducting one of the largest advertising
campaigns, in putting their store be. .
fnr tii Deople of Henderson county,
er explaining the enure Dusmess u
been published and .. is being distrl-
JtXte: '
'
Success ,ln. the, :
business.,- ;u .3.? : ;. ., ;C"-"
- ' : ' ' . Vr mW -n 1
: SCHOOL CATALOG OUT,
w " Rhododendron school
"v- . ,.,.,..4 -Pmm iha1
at-v airls. has been issued trom tne ,
Z SZ wacknev & Moale or.Asne
; atp tinc mailed .
sohool wnich is under .
cut. -, two able ladlesy
. tne JrT and Miss ' Lizzi '
the
xToviiif mainly Dyxue uum-
. . . 1 4-3
SSorts of .. Dr.. johnEnniof.St.!
Petersburg, in iue "rrvr r. :
scnville in the summer.
'
ANNOUNCING OUR GREATEST
.... SPECIAL EDITION.
r
PRACTICAL' GARDEN
Results -Obtained From
(From the United States Department ;of
Agriculture.) -
To meet the demands of thousands
of southern girls who have been suc
cessful in , raising a 'tenth-acre of to:
matoes. and-who want to "go on,' the
representatives. of the department and
the state colleges in charge of the can
ning clubs in the 15 southern states
have worked out what might be called
a progressive, four-year practical gai,
den and canning course for girls. .The
purpose of this course is to start the
girls with one crop and from year'to
year add new annual crops, encourage
them to run winter and glass-frame
gardens, and. finally, in the course of
their work to lead them to plant peren
' nial small and orchard fruits. It t
j hoped that under this system the girls
1 will gain knowledge of how to handle
j a wide variety of garden vegetables
! and trees, and that the member by
j the time she gets ready to go to high
school or college, will have a garden
nf noronntnl fnitfci f Vi i rein A Mtt an Via
cared for by other. members of ier
tt - -,
The first year of girls club work
throughout the southern states cook
flstsTiiiTaisfns tomatoes iJtetftJi;f.cr
charge , that every girl - sboilJ first
master this plant and learn how-to
utilize or sell Its products before she
takes up other vegetables and :y fruits.
In sections where tomatoes suffer from
blight' and wilt, however, it is ;ome-
tunes necessary to substitute another
The second-year girls continue to
grow tomatoes on one-half of their
garden space and devote the other
half of the space to one: other crop,
preferably ' beans, peas, peppers; okra,
beets or onions. The i girls ; also . are
encouraged to start winter gardens in
the late summer and fall on one-fourth
to one-half of the tenth-a'cre plots. Let
tuce, spinach and kale are the crops
recommended.
The first year of glls club work
crops, continuing the two that have
been grown the second year and add
ing cucumbers, eggplant, fig toma
toes, salsify, parsnips, or horseradish.
Mtchants arid Newspa Great Factors
In Building Up a ToWri ;
PATKON1ZE YOUR HOME NKWSPAPER!'
Altliouffh' there are manv reasons why EVERY ONE
-SHQULD Mic:lN HIS; . POWER TO HELP ;THE
HOME PAPER, it is self evident that the men who can and
should do the most are the merchants.. Their success means the
success of the newspaper, and none will deny that the SUCCESS
OF THE NEWSPAPER IS MAINLY DEPENDENT-.' ON
THE MERCHANTS. The newspaper is vitally interested in the
success of those who have things to offer to the community..
Women and many men nowadays read the advertising columns
almost as closely as they -do the news columns.
- IF A MERCHANT HAS ANYTHING SPECIAL TQ OFFER HE
KNOWS THAT THE VERY BEST WAy TO LET THE PEOPLE
KNOW THAT HE HAS IT IS THROUGH THE COLUMNS OF THE
LOCAL NEWSPAPER. MERCHANTS SHOULD TAKE A DEEP IN
TEREST IN THEIR HOME NEWSPAPER. IT IS AN INSTITUTION
OF THE TOWN. IT SHOULD BE SUPPORTED. IT SHOULD BE
ENCOURAGED. IT IS THE GREATEST; TOWN BOOMER THERE
IS. THE NEWSPAPER IS NECESSARY TO THE MERCHANT AND
THE MERCHANT TO THE NEWSPAPER. IF THE HOME NEWS
PAPER OCCASIONALLY KNOCKS IT IS TO REMEDY SOMETHING
THAT . IS W BO NG, Q R SAT LEAST .SQM ETJi 1 N,G.TH AT-" IT. -HO N EST- --
LY-THINK3V IS WRONG. THE HOME; iJEPA
-1 PORT OF EVERYBODY IN TH E3 CO M M P N IT,Y JSU
THAN THE MERCHANTS. '-
flerchants of a town; those who' supply it4aily,needsinvaria-
;:biy are PUBLIC SPIRITED CITIZENS. - They; are the, men -"
whomafce up the boards of trade. They are" always -ithe . fore
front of any .agitation looking to the BETTERMENT- OF-THE
MUNICIPALITY. Their cause always is identical with that of
the home newspaper-- There should bra spirit of co-operation be-,
tween the -merchants and the'home newspaper.- ,t
; MERCHANTS. BOOST FOR THE HOME ; NEWSPAPER ! 4
COURSE FOR GIRLS
Well-Cared-for Garden.
In each case those fn charge of the
work select the additional vegetables
with reference to local agricultural
conditions, market demand and suit
ability for. canning. Many garden com
binations other than those suggested
are possible., For instance, if the com
munity Is interested in canning soup
mixtures and Creole sauce, they must
secure from their gardens tomatoes,
peppers, okra and onions. In fruit
growing sections the girls are advised,
when conditions are right, to substi-
Ute from five to ten fruit trees for
one of the vegetable crops. The mem-
her then becomes responsible for the
pruning, spraying, and general care of
these trees.. .m'
V The development "of crops of peren-
ift vorotahioC frutt i inslstfid
r .,v0v.U.vu 1
"on; at the end of the third year, and in
many cases the work Is begun at the
edof the second year. The peren
sialsVare substituted for some of the
.annual vegetables, and the girls are
given credit for the condition of their
bushes or trees which are not-yet'
bearing and therefore do not yield a
product" that can be counted In the -
s-m-ft--. ; :.,.-:L. . 2
icaTtajns score. --- , -r ' :
', i IT
: zv r ; r : . p
D?eC8eTer!sll:lh0,,sana8 of the girls.
before many years, .will have at. the.;
end of .their jtmior garden- permanent
gardens containingsome such profit
able combinations as the following: ! The public school teachers of. Hen-
Strawberries. a"sparagus -and cher- ??u? ZL?? in finaj sef
. . . 5i sion at 11 o'clock Saturday morning in
Raspberries, rhubarb and plums
. Gooseberries' currants and peaches.
Strawberries, asparagus and quinces.
Strawberries rhubarb and 'pears. j
Dewberries, rhubarb and pears:
Dewberries,; figs and pecans.
Currants, asparagus and grapes.
Blackberries, figs and scuppernongs.
StrawtJerries. figs and oranges.
Asparagus, strawberries and kum-
quats.
To enable them use the products
of these permanent gardens, the
agents give the girls special instruc-
tion in making, preserves, jelly, mar
malades,, pickles, etc
J
GILREATH & GURLEY GET
CONTRACT FOR NEW jCITT HALL
Work to Commence at 'Ones; Architect
Mliiwell Has Plans Ready and '
City -.Fathers Close Contract.
Gilreath & Gurley were the success- Q characterized the Democratic party
fui: bidders in the remodeling of the a? party "for s forward-looking
city hall for Henderson ville. - Sealed . f?rPS of the country.' m a letter read
bids were opened by the city commis- at the annual dinner of the Young .
sioners last Tuesday night when it was MeA's Democratic cluo here tonight .
found that out of two lds the above ' The president was to nave been e
firm was the lowest fcy nearly $800 ou ,trincipai speaker but as prevented
a revised bid. The original bids werfrom nling engagement by pressure
W. F. Edwards, $10,396.59; Gilreath &-cf foreign affairs. Joseph P. Tumulty,
Gurley $9,147.25. ; j his secretary, read the letter, which
1 1 . follows
BLAKE PROPERTY SOLD. 1 "U is' with the keenest and most
News from Ashe ville has been re j sincere regret -ithat I find it impossible t
ceived to the effect that the R. jj. ;for me to attend the banquet this
TJ?ake property near Fletcher has been evening. I had promised myself the
tJit0 i?nyo0f FloFida People head-! Tery great pleasure of consorting with -
--u ujr tt. xj. oomuiu. oi miauu. . jj ia.
Tne purchase
$r;,ooo".oo.
price is said : to be
MODERN .WOODMEN MEET.
A Number of Visitors Here Tuesdaj
A iff hf -When Six New Members
Are Initiated.
State Deputy John Oldham and -aiume human right, and I had hoped to
number of Asheville Modern-Woodmen have the privilege of speaking to you
attended the regular meeting of thft tonight, however imperfectly, the mes
local lodge Tuesday night when six sage of hope and confidence which
new members were carried through , should spring to the lips of every dem
the secrets of the lodge. jociat who sees in their true light past
i here were seven applications foi
new memberships at tho mooting
which indicates a steady growth of
this well known order,
. '.
SINGING CONVENTION.
i '
KdJcr Hustler: -
. 1 as me space in tue wust-
er to announce that on the 30th or
April the Hendersonville township
singing -convention will be held at
Pleasant Hill. All choirs be present
with a good attendance, so we can
have some good music. ':
Program follows.
Convention called to order by the
president, 1:30. Welcome song b?
Pleasant Hill choir. ; Prayer by
J. Slattery.'1, Address 'of wel
Rev.
- "ciWiuc,
;JEverybody cardial tyifinvliocS
ju. jckky, pres.
j, R b., DRAKE; Sec'y.
. - ;
TEACHERS MEETING.
the Graded chool building.
R. F. PACE, President,
GUSSIE DOTSON,' Sec.
NEWS FROM EDNEYYILLE.
(Special to The .Hustler.)
Edhey ville, Apr 17.rThe Mission-ar-
Society at the "fldneyville Metho
dist "church extends to every body a
cordial invitation to be present Sun
day nijght April 23rd at 7-30 o'clock.
A onfwin 1 nrnpra m Tina Vipcti a rmrt rar.
find a CTQyfd is urged. , r
Rev. Green preached an excellent
sermon at Edneyville Sunday evening.
Rev. Green will preachy at Edneyville
next Sunday at 11:00 o'clock and he
wants to' see the Church filled as he
has a special message to deliver.
I The Sunday school" is progressing,
nicely and has ..."a good attendance
: every Sunday..
j Miss Estella Fretwell of Jackson
ville, Fla., who purchased" a lot from
Isaac Justus last summer' is having a
nice six room .house built. We hope
to have her with- her mother, two
brothers and. one sister with us about
June 1st.-,. " -; T-'-' :" : -
LECTURE ON BIRDS.
ifr.:i6,' il. ParkeStafeSecretary of
tbe Audttboh Society delivered :;, lec
ture Friday evening in the school au
ditorium. The lecture was beautifully
illustrated with lantern slides show
ing pictures ' of nearly all Americans
birds, their nests, and natural environ
ment. - , '
Before and after the lecture, short
urograms were given by the pupils of
Misses . Mattie Stan3el and Gussie Dot-
The speaker stated that, just as it is
our duty to properly relate ourselves
to the kingdom of Man, of Kature, and
of God, so is it the duty of the people
l of a state to properly relate tnem
' selves tcr its natural resources to cut
the forests wisely, preserve the fer
tility of the soil, and conserve the wild
life. The audience was told that birds
are of economic value since they de
stroy insects that would curtail the
yield ,of the corps, and that where, nest
ing,. places, for 'birds are-. placed in a.
vineyard It is not necessary tto spray
j(t& vines. The study 'of, ornithology,
diared the . speaker. awakens our
i fiixer .,instinct and "broadens our sym-
icfcrn to recognize the" different kinds
of "birds by sight to -learn their calls,
a 45 feeding and nesting, habits. -
The third" grade '(pupils f Mi-si
Stansel) . sang Robin Redbreast and
the , Whippoorwill Song, and recited
Dont Kill the Birds." , The Fourth
Grade (pupils, of Miss Gussie, Dotson.
who . played all- the Accompaniments
; of the . evening) sang Robins, and Blue
' BirdV apd recited The Merry, Brown
Tbursh. - The Story, of the Wrens was
recited, by Miss Frances Bacon. ,
DEMOCRATIC PARTY . FOR
YOUNG MEN SAYS WILSON.
Characterized as Party, for . Forward
Looking Forces, by President.
"New York, April 15. President Wil-
my friends of the New York Young
; Men's Democratic club. The - demo
' cratic party has become tb e party for
young men and for allt he forward
looking forces of the country, for those
who will not turn back to privileged ,
control and who do mean to go for -i
ward to the realization of every gen-
.achievements and future opportunity
of the great party to which we be
long." .
SHIP EGGS LONG (DISTANCES
When Carefully Packed in Basket
With Good Cushion of Excelsior,
They Give Good Results.
If hatching eggs are carefully
packed in a basket with a good cush
fon of excelsior in the bottom they will "
carry great distances and : give goodi
results. It must not be expected, how
ever, that, they will giveas large a
percentage of hatch as might be the
case nearer home. . : '.''. '.' -
Itfets;- the'ioljHnfe;esare.aptgta" get.
"tbytransportatloit by ' rail JW&kj2&ly
to weaken a strong germ or kiii . sr
weak one. For that reason they should
-J beVwelJ packed in excelsior.4 - Excel--
sior is to be preferred to any4 other ma
terial, as it is of a springy nature ; t and
baskets are better than boies,' tpf the :
reason that, being more convenient Hb -,
handle, railroad employees areltat-
nrally more careful with them:'
; Dust Bath Is Essential.
Remember that the dust bath is 'es
sential to the healthfulnes? 1 "of fplsr 1 )
especially , of the chicken ,tind; jjblhce
facilities for a dust bathVjyrays sfe'bnld''' ';
be provided. A liberal supply oi ashes .
in the bath makes it better,' and If ;llce' v
or mites are feared, pulverized' sul- u
phur may. be mixed in it to great ad
vantage.
Roosters Not Necessary. .
Poultrymen are finding out that, hens
will lay as freely without the company
Of males as with them.- This fact per
mits the' lessening of expenses by do
ing away with the roosters. It is also
a fact that eggs that. are infertile will
keep much longer. ... These are two
points of importance to egg-farm' specialists.-
; . ." -'. '. - r - ,
i
Hard-Bitted Horse.
; : Naturally , the mouto : iof acolt ia
quite tender. A llt'tle jerk iimts it;
but.repeated jerks and hurts tend to'
harden the llpsand ' before' 'we -know
it we have a horse that can rfiardly be
mastered by a common bit.' : - j ' 1 ,
N .... Buy Dry Meat'Scraps. ;.
: . When buying dry meat ' scraps al
ways get . the best quajity obtainable.
This is very important as some of the
so-called meat scraps are not much
better than the ordinary tankage.
MISS JACKSON TO GRADUATE.
Miss Bernice Jackson, daughter- of
Brownlow Jackson will graduate, from
Hygiea hospital in Richmond in July.
She stands second highest in her class -and
school hold the highest standard -of.
any hospital in Richmond. Mr.
Jackson visited his daughter several
weeks ago and states that she is en
thusiastic over her course and expects .
to. take a post-graduate course in New v
York city before-.retiming: to rNorth .
Carolina to live; v - r.; . i, -
-a C. HOfirTOUND" , '
TFriends of C. Hoke; who jsaw the .'
account of his mysterious di.sappear--
ance in last-week's Hustler - began- an
immediate search 'which resulted in
finding him . near, .the house which
he . is supposed to have been boardins
for sometime. Mr. Hoke it was learn
ed was: sick in bed f orsome time ana .
hence his friends have not seen him
on the streets. Youn e Hoke: informed
tho Hustler that he: had found, his
father and was very happy. - '
.1
