w 1 1 I I
AAV Ay 4.
J. A. MENZIES, Editor and Publisher. "Here the Press the People's Rights Maintain, Unawcd by Influence and Unbribed by Gain." For All That Is Right InTheRepublicanPart
Vol. XXXIV, No. 3 3 YERlt YALE, St. Clair County, Mich., THURSDAY, April 20, 1916, $1.00 Per Year, In Advance
CHURCH SERVICES.
Young Man, Don't
Scatter Your Dollars!
YOUTH IS PRODIGAL. Frequently the young man DOESN'T
KNOW THE VALUE OF A. DOLLAR.
YOUTH IS NOT EVERLASTING. The big men of the country laid'
the foundation for their success by opening a bank account when they,)
were young.
i
If You Hope to Amount to Anything Don't
Delay Starting a Dank Account.
Start It Today.
Yale State Bank
Princess Theatre
Advance Program
Tuesday, Apri
"A Fool There Was"
In six reels featuring THEDA BARRA. This is
the first of the
Pox .Features
booked for the next fourteen weeks. On May 2nd
will play "Samson" and on May 9th "The Girl I Left
Behind Me." Other high-class plays to follow.
10 cents and 15 cents
Regular 4-reel shows on Thursday
and Saturday.
ASK FOR THIS
. BOOK OF LATEST
I WALL PAPER
SAMPLES
) AT OUR STORE
. m
TMDC
MATHEWS z WIGHT
ffQtO VJonpotQ '
U U ObblUllll ...
J
JUNIOR PLAY
"Thn Dw
... 111b 1
At Central Hall, Yale
Friday Evening, April 28th, 1916
On Friday evening of next week the Juniors will give their play,
'The Private Secretary," which they have been rehearsing lor several
weeks under the able direction of Miss McCall.
This play, which is copyrighted and will cost the class 810 simply
for the right of performance, was originally played iu Cambridge,
England, at the Koyal Theatre and later had a very successful run
of more than 100 nights at Prince's Theatre in London. The Private
Secretary is funny from the beginning and grows more so as it pro
ceeds. The young people who are taking part seem to be especially
well adapted to the parts they are to play and we feel that we can
promise with a good deal of assurance an eveuing of such rare pleas
ure and fun as Vale people 6eldom have the opportunity of enjoying.
The parts are all good, but Mr. Cattermole and the Kev. ltobert
Spaulding alone will give you the worth of yqur money. "The Pri
vate Secretary" will delight you. Don't miss it.
CAST OF CIIAKACTKltS
Mr. Marshland Hilton Tice
Harry Marshland (his nephew) Hoy Lawson
Mr. Cattermole Kenneth Lacy
Douglas Cattermole (his nephew) Donald Mclntyre
Kev. Robert Spaulding Ldgar Vrooman
Mr. Sydney Gibson Harry Williams
John (a servant) , . Victor Hitter
Knox (a writ server) italph Vincent
Edith Marshland Helen Farley
Eva Webster (her friend) Katharine McKenny
Mrs. Stead (Douglas landlady) Marjorie Menzies
Miss Ashford v Leta Holden
SYNOPSIS
ACT 1 Opens in Douglas apartments. He has received a letter in
which his uncle says he will do nothing for him until he has sown
his wild oatB. Mrs. Stead enters with unpaid bills which are placed
on a table with others of same kind; Mrs. Stead persuades Douglas
to enter side room while she treats with creditors. Harry comes in
and they make wild plans in which Douglas is to accompany Harry
to his uncle's, masking as his private secretary while the- real secre
tary, Kev. Robert Spaulding is to be left in his rooms. Mr. Catter
mole, who has not seen his nephew for years, arrives, and thinking
that Spaulding is his nephew, is greatly disgusted and shows it.
ACT 11 opens in the morning room of Mr. Marshland's country
house. Miss Ashford is airing her beliefs in spiritualism. Marsh
land enters and bids her keep such ideas out of his daughter's bead.
The girls enter and are admonished to be kind to the new secretary,
who has come with line testimonials which especially recommend
him as a lover of classical music. Douglas has become reckless and
is going to follow his uncle's advice and sow some wild oats, and
many interesting situations arise. Cattermole is charmed with him,
but at this time Spaulding, the real secretary arrives. Gibson, the
tailor, also arrives to collect his bill, and the luu continues. Douglas
has promised Miss Ashford to secure a medium for her. she is sure
Spaulding is the medium and conducts herself accordingly.
ACT 111 is in same place as second. Douglas and Harry are hav
ing no end of trouble with Spaulding. As the girls enter they hide
him under the table. They urge Douglas, who knows nothing of
music, in spite of the testimonials given the secretary, to play lor
them. He complains of a sprained wrist and escapes. Spaulding
decides he was hired as private secretary to a lunatic asylum. (Jib
son finally reveals Douglas and Cattermole is delighted. Douglas
and Edith fall In love and all ends beautifully.
Reserved seats will be on sale at Hennessy's drug storu Monday
evening, April 24th, at A;30 standard time.
M. P. Church Notes
Rev. Ciias. Rkaoo, pastou
Don't fail to attend Sunday school.
There's always room for more.
Prayer meeting at the usual hour
Thursday evening. There's a welcome
here for everyone.
Several who would have attended
the services at Cole Sunday morning
were compelled to stay at home on ac
count of the bad condition of the roads.
On account of Rev. Uragg being
called away to attend the funeral of
his uncle, the quarterly business meet
ing was postponed from Saturday un
til Monday afternoon.
Next Sunday morning will be regard
ed as decision day. The doors of the
church will be open to anyone wishing
to unite with us. Anyone wishing to
be baptised may be on Sunday.
The Choir is putting forth an extra
effort preparing a special Easter story
and song program entitled "Love Tri
umphant, a story of the first Easter
tide, for Sunday evening. Don't fall
to attend this.
Nero coffee 25c lb at Cochraue's.
O. E. S. Election of Officers.
The annual election of oilicers of
Vale Chapter O. E. S. held on Wed
nesday evening resulted as below.
The appointive oflicers will be select
ed and list published next week.
There will be initiation and installa
tion ceremonies on the evening of
May 10.
Worthy Matron Mrs. Etta Clyno
Asso. Matron Mrs. Emily Vuill
Worthy Patron Joseph Vuill
Secretary Mrs. Olive Jacobs
Treasurer Mrs. Mary Rrown
Conductress Pearl McDonald
Asso. Con. Mrs. Rlanehe Learmont
ADVERTISED LEIURS.
Yale, April 17. l'.Ufi.
Mr. Fred Saunders
Mr. Thomas O'Hearn
E. W. Parley, P. M.
Piano Tuning.
My spring trip to Yale will be the
latter part of April. Will be there
soon after ytn read this ad. Leave
orders at Expositor oflice. My polish
is for sale at Hennessy's drug store.
3 2 F. C Lillibridge, Detroit.
EASTER CONCERT
SUNDAY EVENING, APRIL 23 W, IN XC. E. CHURCH
BY THE PRESBYTERIAN AND SXt. Ey CHOIRS
PROGRAM
Voluntary
Hymn 1C!)
Anthem "The Lord is Risen"
Prayer
Solo "Crowned on Calvary" Olin JJeavIa
Anthem "Calvary"
Scripture and Announcements
Solo "O Glorious Mom" ...Clifford llutton
Offering
Off. Solo "O King Immortal" (with violin ob.) Mrs. Cochrane
Anthem "The Radiant Morn'1
Solo "If God So Clothed the Grass" Rawley Hallman
Quartette "The Lord Is My Shepherd"
Solo "Easter Song" Roy llricker
Anthem "Oh Death, Where Is Thy Sting?"
Renediction
A SILVER COLLECTION WILL BE TAKEN
5i. r. ciiuKCir
Cass meeting, morning, S:30
Preaching 10:00
Sunday School 11:15
Sunday evening, 7:00,
Everyone welcome.
Charli's liragg, Pastor
KKKK METHODIST CHURCH
Sabbath school at U:3() a. m.
Preaching at 10:30 followed by class-
meeting at 11:30.
Preaching at 7: ;U0 p. rn.
Prayer service Wednesday evening at
7.D0. .1. JS. Wilson, pastor.
M i:n n ( x i t i : C n i; rc i f
Regular services every sabbath at the
Rrick Chapel.
Sabbath school at 10:00 a. ni.
Preaching service at 11:00 a. m. and
7:30 p. m. F. A. Jones Pastor.
AVOCA M. P. CHURCH
There will be preaihing in the M. P.
church Sunday morning commencing
at 11: 0 o'clock.
Sunday school at 10 o'clock.
Rev. Vandoren, Pastor.
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH
Preaching service at 10:00 a. ra.
Sabbath school at 11: W a. m.
preaching service 7. -00 p. m.
Mid-week service Thursday evenings
at 7 o'clock.
. Waldreu Geach, Pastor
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Preaching next Sunday at 10:o0 a m
Sabbath school at 11 IX) o'clock.
Evening services at 7:00.
Bible study Thursday evening.
All cordially invited to attend above
services. Rev. E. 11. Rradiield, pastor.
MECIIANIO-ST CHURCH OK CHRIST
Sunday, April 23rd
Morning service 10:30, local time.
Subject "Why Should it be Thought a
Thing Incredible to You that God
Should Raise the Dead?" Acts 26: 8
Sunday School 11:30.
Young People's Meeting 6:30 local
time.
Evening service at 7:30. Subject
"Faith and the New Lite."
We give all a hearty welcome to
these services.
Eldred Charles, Minister.
Resolutions of Condolence.
Whereas, in the death of our dearly
loved Past Matron, sister Fannie M.
Ueecher, Vale Chapter No. 04, Order
of the Eastern Star, has sustained an
irreparable loss. Therefore be It
Resolved, That while we as mem
bers bow in humble submission to the
will of the All Wise Ruler, we miss
her kindly presence, influence and wise
counsel. Therefore be it
Resolved, As members of an Order
she loved and served so well, extend
our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
ones, remembering that we are one
great family, united in kinship by the
golden ties of a Fraternal bond that we
ourselves have sealed; therefore be it
Resolved, That a copy of these res
olutions be spread upon the records of
Yale Chapter, No. 64, O. E. S., a copy
be sent to the sorrowing family, and
another be made for publication.
Berenice R. Fuller
Euphemia J. Howell
Elizabeth Meuties
M. E. Church Notes.
Waldren Geach, pastor
There will be a special Ea6ter service
held at the church Sunday morning
at 10 o'clock. At the close of the ser
vice all candidates for membership
will be taken into the church.
Any person wanting soil for tilling
may have.auy quantity by getting it
out of the hole on the new church site.
Or by paying a small amount anyone
may have a limited amount out6lde of
the sidewalk. Apply to Rev. Waldren
Geach, chairman of the building com
mittee. The committee desires to thank all
who helped in getting together another
car load of paper. They earnestly hope
that everyone will save for another car
load, especially newspapers and magazines.
AUCTION SALE3.
The undersigned will offer for sale
by public auctiou at the premises on
Arthur street in the city of Vale, on
Saturday, April 22, 1110, household
goods, etc. Sale to begin at 1.-00 o'clock
p. m. sharp. Usual terms. Geo. W.
Bell, auctioneer.
Mrs. Addie E. Mitchell, Prop.
On account of having decided to
quit farming the undersigned will of
fer for sale by public auction at the
premises miles west of Lakeport,
or Zi miles east of Rlaine on Wednes
day, April 20, all of his farm stock,
household goods, etc. Sale to begin at
one o'clock p. m. sharp. Usual terms.
Geo. W. Hell, auctioneer.
Elmer Avery, proprietor
The undersigned, having leased his
farm for a term of years, will offer for
sale by public auction to the highest
bidder, without reserve, at the premises
1 mile south and 2 miles east of Vale,
on Tuesday, April 25, commencing at
one o'clock p. m. sharp, all of his farm
stock and implemente. Usual terms.
Alvin Llebler, auctioneer.
Roy Cork, Proprietor
W wish to Inform tho publio that
wo havo a quantity of flax sood
to glvo out for sowing purpose
which can bo had by calling at th
mill for lime. Wo also want to
rent m limitod amount of land suit
able for growing flax. 3
Tho Jas. Livingston Flax Co., Ltd.
Civil Service play May 5th. Watch
for cast of characters and synopsis in
next week's paper.
V
STOP AND REFLECT
VOU who have settled in matrimony you who in
A tend to some day think of those around whom
your whole thoughts are centered. Think of the duty im
posed upon you to provide comfort and happiness for tnem.
You Can't Provide for Them with an Empty Purse
Wouldn't it be wise for you to begin to save now so that
youH be able to provide against poverty? You don't hare ,
to save much bat yoa moat Bare regularly.
Put your fanda here, where tafery and personal service go hand in hand
with conscientious effort.
L
L
ra
urn al nmmitk
YALE, MICHIGAN
OFFICERS
.Vice Pre ildenc
W.F.Ruhu7-PrW
EFFeadrcashier
CRAdaraVAist CaAkr,
7
Does Your Watch or Clock i
Need Repairing? j
If so, bring it to us and wo will put it in good shape. We i
havo had the exnerienco and can do vour work nsrht. f
Our Motto: Neatness and promptness.
L.Roy Fuller, - Yale, Mich.
Seeding
Time!
It will soon be time to get on the ground and the
wisest plan is to have your seed ready. VVe handle
nothing but the best in the line of
Timothy Seed and Clover Seed
A full line of seeds of all kinds kept constantly on hand
A new car of Lehigh Valley Cement
Toledo Pulp Plaster
Homestead and Fish Guana Fertilizer
Have some second-hand Plows, a Buggy, Empire Drill
and Spring-tooth Harrows for sale cheap.
PHONE 14
...Wharton & Company...
52TVo SPECIALIZE in GROCERIES OF QUALITY.
Come To Us
and you will always be pleased with our
method of treating our customers. Our
goods are the best that money can buy,
and we arc satisfied with a living profit,
hence our ever increasing patronage.
Let your slogan be-"Tay!or's for Groceries."
Store open evenings.
Phone 49 - Prompt Delivery - Yale "
We have the Largest List of Subscribers in Northern St. Clair Co
