1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
VOL. LVIII. NO. 232
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
COLUMNS
0.00
ble That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
The Bulletin's Circulation in Nop?
26, 1916 TEN PAGES 80
ASMA
ON GER
Attacks Made Simultaneously by British and French
in an Arc of Fifty Miles
ENTENTE ALLIES PUSH
From Martinpuich to Combles, a Distance of Six Miles to a
Depth of More Than a Mile Advance Made by the
Allies Apparently Seals the Fate of Combles Another
Notable Step in Their Approach Upon Perrone is Marked
in the Capture by the French of Trenches in the Canal
du Nord Region The Italians Have Captured an Im
portant Mountain Peak on the Trentino Front Repeated
Reports of Successes for the Entente Allies in Macedonia
Come From Their Various War Officers.
Attacking simultaneously on an arc
of fifty miles, running from Martin
puich to the Somme, the British and
French forces have delivered another
smashing blow on the German lines
and pushed forward their positions for
notable gains.
From Martinpuich to Combles, a
distance of six miles, the British have
driven in their wedge to a depth of
more than a mile and captured in the
attack the important strategic towns
of Lesboofs and Morval, the latter a
scant mile north of Combles.
To the French fell the town of Ran
cour!, two miles east of the outskirts of
Fregicourt, one mile northeast of
Combles. In addition, trenches near
Fregicourt 'in the vicinity of Boucha
vasnes and to the south from the vi
cinity of the Canal du Nord to the
Somme were taken.
The capture of Morval by the British
snd a part of Fregicourt by the
French apparently seals the fate of
Combles, which the Germans have
stolidly he'd for weeks despite the vi
olent attacks thrown against it. The
defenders of the virtually surrounded
town have. itft. to them.-Jor - esuap
only the valley, a rai'e in width, run
ning north-northeast and in the tra
versing of which they must come under
the guns of the British and French
respectively from Morval and the vi
cinity of Fregicourt.
Another notable step in their ap
proach upon Pernnne is marked in the
capture by the French of trenches in
the Canal du Nord region.
Except in France there have been
no important, engagements on any of
the various fronts. Berlin reports the
repulse of Russian attacks in Volhynia,
Galicia and the Carpathians, retro
grad is still silent as to the operations
on the eastern front, but unofficial
advices say tho Russians have begun a
new offensive on a large scale in the
hope of putting down the counter-attacks
of the Teutons and piercing
their front before winter sets in.
The Rumanians are still struggling
for supremacy over the Teutonic al
lies in the Szurduk and Vulcan passes
of the Transylvanian Alps, but accord
ing to Berlin all their attacks have
been repulsed.
In the Macedonian campaign re
peated reports of successes for the en
tente allies come from their various
war chancellories. West of Fiorina the
Russians have captured a hill from the
Bulgars; the Serbians have crossed the
frontier into their own country and
reached a position north of Kruzograd,
while the French' northeast of Fiorina
have penetrated the outskirts of Pe
torak. The British to the north of
Tahlnos, one the eastern end of the
battle line, also report an advance, but
Berlin says that all their attacks were
repulsed.
Aside from the capture by the Ital
ians of an important mountain peak
5n the Trentino front, artillery bom
bardments have taken place on the
Itf"-n-Autro front.
Despite the loss of two Zeppelins in
an air raid on eastern England Satur
day night the Germans Monday
night again returned to the at
tack with airships and dropping bombs
In the northern and midland countries.
FOOD SHORTAGE DISCUSSED
IN LUXEMBURG PARLIAMENT.
Due to Refusal of Breat Britain to
Permit Importation.
Berlin, Sept. 25 (By Wireless to Say
ville). According to reports from
Luxemburg, the question concerning
the supply of food caused a violent
discussion in the Luxemburg parlia
ment, saj'B an item given out today by
the Overseas News agency. Director
General Welter, it is added, decided
that the difficulties over the food sup
ply were due to the refusal of Great
Britain to permit importation of victu
als, even though their distribution
would be under control of agents of
the United States.
SITUATION IN GREECE
IS GROWING SERIOUS.
Former Premier Venizelos Ha Left
Athens. Bound for Saloniki.
London. Sept. 25, 6.58 p. m. The sit
uation in Greece is most serious, says
a Reuter despatch from Athens. For
mer Premier Venizelos, accompanied
by the rear admiral, Condouritis, commander-in-chief
of the Greek navy, a
number of superior officers and his
supporters, left Athens early today.
They are bound probably for Crete,
whence they are expected to go to
Saloniki.
3ERMAN BATTLE PLANES
CHASE RUSSIAN AEROPLANES
Which Had Made an Unsuccessful
Attack on Lake Angern.
Berlin, Sept. 26, (By "Wireless to
BayvJHO "Three large Russian
keroplanes on September 23 attack
Id without success the naval aero
Irorv on Lake Angern (near the Gulf
Df Riga,)" aays a semi-official state
SHING BLOW
MAN LINES
FORWARD FOR BIG GAINS
ment given out here today. "German
battle planes pursued the Russian
aeroplanes, forcing one of them to
land at point east of Danamude. All
the German aeroplanes returned safe
ly." HOSTILE AIRSHIPS PAY
ANOTHER VI'SIT TO ENGLAND.
Bombs Dropped in Northern - and
North Midland Counties.
London, Sept. 26, 12.20 a. m. Several
hostile airships crossed the east and
northeast coasts of England between
10.20 o'clock and midnight last night,
says an official communication issued
shortly after midnight.
"Ecmbs are reported to have been
dropped at several places in northern
and north midland counties.
"An airship is also reported off the
south coast.
No reports of casualties or damage
have been received."
Later thy following official state
ment regarding the raid was made
public:
-"Several hurttte 'iffShfprtlBa.Vt
six visited the northeastern and
southern counties during the night.
Bombs were dropped in the northern
counties and some casualties and dam
age are reported.
"Full reports have not yet been re
ceived." HERR VON JAGOW CALLS
ON AMBASSADOR GERARD.
Mrs. Gerard Going to Copenhagen to
Sail for United States.
Berlin, Sept. 25, Noon, via London,
11.45 p. m. The German foreign min
ister, Herr von Jagow, made a short
call on Ambassador Gerard at the em
bassy this morning. The ambassador
deelined to discuss the visit.
Ambassador Gerard will leave Ber
line tomorrow morning, accompanied
by Mrs. Gerard, for Berlin,, from which
port Mrs. Gerard will take steamer for
the United States on Sept. 28.- The
ambassador himself has received no
word concerning his vacation and so
probably will return to Berlin from
Copenhagen.
RUMANIAN DIPLOMATS HAVE
GONE TO COPENHAGEN,
Were on Service in Germany Until
(. Rumania Entered War.
Berlin. Sept. 25 (By Wireless to Say
ville). Dr. Boldiman, who was Ru
manian minister ot Germany until his
country entered the war, has gone to
Copenhagen with his staff to take up
his residence in Denmark.
The former Rumanian ministers at
Vienna, Sofia and Constantinople, with
their staffs, have arrived at Malmoe,
Sweden, on their way home.
WESTERLY TUG ENGAGED
TO LOOK FOR THE BREMEN.
Scott Co. Has No Definite Knowledge
of the Approach of the German Sub
mersible. Mew London, Conn., Sept. 25. Offi
cials of the T. A. Scott Wrecking com
pany said tonight they had no definite
knowledge of the near approach of a
German undersea merchantman, but
admitted that a Westerly tug had been
hired to be on the lookout for one.
This tug was engaged to take the
place of one of the company's boats,
which has been ordered to Portland,
Me.
For nearly two weeks ithe Soott
tugs have gone down thp harhor night
ly for the acknowledged purpose of
watching for a submarine and towing;
her into port.
STRIKEBREAKER CHARGED
WITH INTIMIDATION.
Outgrowth of Strike Trouble at Farrel
Foundry, Ansonla.
Ansonia, Conn., Sept. 25. As an out
growth of the strike troubles at the
Farrel Foundry and Machine company,
where a strike has been in progress
for more than a year, Henry Daven
port, a strikebreaker, was arrested ot
day, charged with intimidation. The
complaint was lodged by K. Neuge
bauer, a striker, who Is awaiting trial
In the common pleas court. At the re
cent troubles Neugebauer was fined
$50 and costs and sentenced to six
months tn Jail.
Davenport was released In bonds of
$750, furnished by Colonel Farrel.
Gold Arrives from Cape Town.
Boston, Sept. 25. Another large
shipment of gold was brought to port
today by the steamer Chepstow Castle,
which arrived from Cape Town with
$2,495,980 in sovereigns. The gold Is
consigned to the Bank of Ottawa. It
was shipped to Ottawa tonight.
'Cabled Paragraphs
Earl of Essex Dead.
London, Sept. 25. The Earl of Essex
died suddenly today at Newmarket He
had been 111 for some time.
Resignation of German Foreign Minis
ter Imminent.
London, Sept. 25, 7.08 p. m. The
Amsterdam correspondent of the Ex
change Telegraph company says that
he learns that the resignation of Gott
lieb von Jagow, German foreign min
ister, is imminent. Ill health is given
as the reason.
Mrs. J. W. Gerard in Auto Accident.
Berlin, Sept. 25 (By Wireless to Say
ville). (Mrs. James W. Gerard, Wife
of the American ambassador, sustained
a slight nervou shock today when her
automobile came into collision with a
taxicab. She was able to return to
her home, however, without requiring
the services of a physician.
AMERICAN EXPORTS
BREAK WORLD'S RECORD
Passed Half Billion Dollars a Month
Mark in August.
Washington. Sept. 25. American
exports finally have passed the half
billion dollar a month mark; statis
tics issued today by the department
of commerce show that goods sent
abroad in August were valued at
$510,000,000, a record not only for this
country but for the world. The to
tal is $35,000,000 above the previous
high record, established in Mav, and
$45,000,000 higher than .the June fig
ure. Imports decreased in August, the
total of $199,247,691 being . $47,000,000
below that of June, the record month.
It was greater, however, than the to
tal for any previous August. Exports
for the year ended with August ag
gregated $4,750,000,000. and the 1m
ports. $2,300,000,000, both totals being
far in advance of those for any , sim
ilar period. Of the August imports,
66.5 per cent, entered free of duty,
compared with 67.5 per cent, in Au
gust a year ago.
The favorable trade balance for Au-.
gust was $311,000,000 compared with
$11(1,000,000 in August a year ago, and
a balance of $19,000,000," in August,
1914. Against the United States for
the twelve months ending August 31,
the export balance was $2,465,000,000,
as against $1,363,000,000 in the preced
ing year and $374,000,000 two years
ago.
The net inward gold movement for
August, was $29,000,000 and for the
?ar $410.000 000, a record-breaker.
Last year the net inward gold move
ment was $146,000,000 and two years
ago there was a net outward move
ment of $95,000.0000. Gold imports in
August were $41,238,716 against $61,
641.191 in August. 1915, and $3,045.
219 in August, 1914.
MEETING OF JUNIOR ORDER
O. U. A. M. IN BRIDGEPORT.
Preceded by a Big Streef 'Parade" and
Followed by a Dinner.
Bridgeport, Conn., Sept. 25. Con
gressman John L. Burnett of Alabama
was the principal spealrer at a large
open meeting of the Junior Order
United American Mechanics here this
evening in anticipation of the annual
state convention which opens tomor
row morning. He made a plea for the
passage of a literacy test fc- all im
migrants and urged the delegates and
members to use influence on the Con
necticut senators to help bring about
its passage.
The meeting was preceded by a big
street parade nad was followed by a
dinner in a local hotel for the state
officers and speakers. Besides Con
gressman Burnett, the speakers in
cluded Mayor C. B. Wilson in an ad
dress of welcome: Congressman E. J.
Hill of Connecticut; National Council
lor C. B. Webb of Narth Carolina;
Elizabeth P. How, national councillor
of the Daughters of America, Wil
liamsburgh, N. Y., and Charles H.
Kernan, superintendent of the national
orphanage in Tiffin, O.
PRESIDENT WILSON WRITES
TO THE AMERICAN HEBREW
Describing America as a "Real Home
For Justice and Fair Dealing."
New York, Sept. 25. Describing
America as "a real home in which all
forces work together ror justice and
fair dealing," President Wilson has
written a letter for publication in the
coming special Jewish New Year
number of the American Hebrew, it
was announced by the publishers here
today, paying a high tribute to the
citizenship of the Jews and assur
ing them of his interest in his "fellow
citizens of Hebrew extraction."
"No man who knows the history of
America." the president wrote, "or in
deed of the world, could fail to ap
pteciate their notable contributions to
industry, philanthropy, intellectual de
velopment and political liberty."
TO FORM A FEDERATION OF
FRENCH CATHOLIC SOCIETIES.
A Temporary Organization Was Ef
fected in Woonsocket Yesterday.
Woonsocket, R. I., Sept. 25. Dele
gates representing 70,000 Franco-American
Catholic citizens of A'ew England
today voted to form a federation of
French Catholic societies, perfecting a
temporary organization with Dr. A. E.
Brien of Manchester, N. H., as presi
dent, and Wilfred J. iMathieu of this
city as secretary.
A committee to draw up rules and
by-laws will report at a meeting to be
held here on Dec "11.
The purposes of the. organization are
to prepare sympathetic relations with
other Catholic societies, to bind ties of
fraternity, and to study social prob
lems. WOO DC HOPPER FOUND
WITH GASH IN HEAD.
Brought to the Hospital in Greenwich
Police Investigating.
Greenwich, Conn., Sept. 25. William
Thorne- of Riverside, a woodchopper
was brought to the hospital tonight
suffering from a deep gash In his head,
and it is believed he will not live. He
was found in the woods by a searching
party. The police are investigating to
determine whether or not he was as
saulted. Stricken With Paralysis in Court.
Thompsonville, Conn., - Sept. 25.
Judge Hugh Young of the Enfield tows
court was stricken with paralysis to
day as he was about to preside at a
session of court. Hia condition tonight
was regarded as critical. He is a for.
xner representative and at one time
was a capitol .guide.
S.N.E.T.Co. to
, Increase Capital
STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING CALL
ED TO AUTHORIZE THE ISSUE
$5,000,000 ADDITIONAL
New Capital Stock to be Issued from
Time to Time Plan is to Offer S1t
000,000 for Subscription by Stock
holders, Payable in December.
New Haven, Conn., Sept. 25. At the
quarterly meeting of the board of di
rectors of the Southern New Enland
Telephone company today it was voted
to call a special meeting of the stock
holders on Oct. 16 to authorize the is
sue of $5,000,000 of additional capital
stock, to be issued from time to time.
After the stockholders' meeting, the
directors plan to offer $1,000,000 of new
stock for subscription by the stock
holders, payable in December.
The board today voted the usual
quarterly dividend of 1 3-4 per cent.,
payable Oct. 14.
MARKED DROP IN NUMBER
OF PARALYSIS CASES.
Public Schools Throughout New York
City Opened Yesterday.
New York, Sept. 25. The marked
drop in the number of infantile paraly
sis cases reported today for the last
two days brought out the announce
ment by the federal health service
surgeons inspecting Interstate travel
originatin gin this city that they would
prepare to leave New York in October
if the same rate of decrease holds to
morrow. The government research
experts, however, will remain for an
other month at least, it was stated.
Dr. Charles K. Banks, senior surgeon
in charge of the federal doctors, said
he did not apprehend any recrudesence
of the plague, but was interested to
see whether sending children to school
would cause an increase.
The public schools throughout the
city opened today and although the
enrollment will not be totalled and an
nounced until Monday, it was esti
mated unofficially by the school au
thorities that from 10 to 15 per cent,
f school children were kept away by
timid paretits. The u.utnorities have
announced the compulsory education
laws will not be enforced for two or
three weeks against those failing to
put their children in school through
fear of the disease. .
The health department announced
today that despite the epidemic there
Were only 73 deaths of children under
-Syears uithe city last week, com
pared with 1S2 deaths for the corre
sponding week a year ago. The death
rate in the city last week was the
lowest, it was said, for any 39th week
in the past five years.
RESOURCEFULNESS OF
AMERICAN CHEMISTS
Praised at National Exposition of
Chemical Industries in New York.
New York. Sept. 25. The resource
fulness and ability of American chem
ists to meet a sudden emergency, such
as confronted them at the outbreak of
the European war, were extolled by
speakers at the opening of the second
national exposition of chemical indus
tries in this city today. The conven
tions of the American Chemical so
ciety, the Electro -Chemical society and
the Technical Association of the Pulp
and Paper Industry arc being held in
conjunction with the exposition.
The extent of the exhibition this
year, more than double the size of last
year's, was cited as proof of the recent
development of the industry in the
United States. Dr. Charles H. Herty,
president of the American Chemical
society, in welcoming the visiting
chemists, urged abandonment of the
old secretive individual methods of
business for "work in a spirit of broad
co-operation "
"We find ourselves suddenly carried
forward through ten or fifteen years
of normal progress in many lines of
industrial endeavor," Dr. Lawrence
Addicks, former president of the Electro-Chemical
society, said. "What is
more, every part of this progress, from
the scientific research upon which it is
based to the source from which the
new material is drawn, is American."
One speaker said American manu
facturers are making almost 75 per
cent, of the dyestuffs that were needed
in 1913 and that four times more dye
stuffs are on exhibition this year than
were ever seen before.
A THRIFT CONGRESS TO
BE HELD IN NEW YORK
To Celebrate the Gains Made by Sav
ings Banks This Year.
Kansas City, Mo., Sept. 25. A thrift
congress to be held in New York the
latter part of December to celebrate
the gains, made by savings banks this
year and to map out a further huge
economy campaign to be institute
throughout the United States was
planned here today by the executive
committee of the 6evongs bank sec
tion of the American Bankers' associa
tion. It was the first work of im
portance undertaken by bankers at
tending the annual convention of the
association opening here today. The
plans made today will be submitted to
the general meeting of the seringa
section for approval.
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF
LIGHTING OF BOSTON HARBOR
Tablet Unveiled on Famous Old Bea
con in Celebration of Event.
Boston, Sept. 25. A history of two
hundred years of guidance to shipping
entering Boston harbor was celebrated
tortnv at Boston Light. Secretary
William C. Redfleld of the Department
o- uimerce, with a party of invited
guests, went down, the harbor on the
lighthouse tender Mayflower to unveil
a tablet on the famous old beacon.
The first permanent light at this
point was authorized the General
Court in 1715 and its first rays were
seen by mariners on September- 14
(Old Style), 1716. This tower, partly
of stone and partly of wood, was bad
ly damaged by fire in 1720 and again
in 1751. It was quickly repaired both
times, but when the British evacuated
Boston in the early days of the Revo
lution they demolished the lighthouse.
The, present -.tgwecms erected, In 1788.
Pershing to be
a Major-General
TO FILL VACANCY BY DEATH OF
MAJOR GENERAL MICLS
OTHER ADVANCEMENTS
Promoti on Does Not Affect Pershing's
Assignment as Commander of the
Expeditionary Force in Mexico
Nominations to be Sent to Congress
Washington, Sept. 2'5. Secretary
Baker announced late today that the
president would nominate Brigadier
General Pershing, commander of the
American expeditionary forces in Mex
ico, to be a major-general to fill the
vacancy created by the death of Ma
jor General Mills.
Other Promotions.
Colonels Eben Swift of the general
staff, Francis M. French of the Twenty-first
Infantry; Edwin St. John Gre
ble of the Sixth Field Artillery and
Charles G. Treat of the general staff,
will become brigadier generals, suc
ceeding Brigadier General Pershing,
Who is promoted to Major General, and
Granger Adams, Montgomery McComb
and F. W. Sibley, who are to be re
tired. General Pershing's promotion
does not affect his assignment as com
mander of the expeditionary force in
Mexico.
Announcement of the promotions
was made by Secretary Baker upon his
return from Baltimore, where he talk
ed over the selections witji President
Wilson. The secretary's recommenda
tions were approved by the president,
who will send the nominations to con
gress in December.
SIR EDWARD R. CRAWFORD
TALKS ON BRITISH BLACKLIST
Declares It is For Purpose of Minim
izing Censorship of Business Mail.
New York, Sept. 25. The so-called
British "blacklist" of American firms
was characterized by Sir Edward
Crawford, commercial attache of the
British embassy at Washington, as a
"white list" at a luncheon given in
his honor here today by about, fifty
bankers and heads of industrial cor
porations engaged in export trade. He
explained that the term "blacklist"
had created a misunderstanding as to
its real objects and told his guests
what was being done by the British
government to minimize . the censor
ship of business mail.
A committee of five is to be ap
pointed" from 'arfmiR those who at
tended the conference to take up with
the embassy officials individual cases
in which it may be possible to effect
relief.
Sir Richard said the British gov
ernment already had made arrange
ments to facilitate the despatch of
shipping documents between the
United States and neutral countries.
By placing this kind of mail in bags
marked "shipping documents," he ex
plained, it received rapid examination
by a special corps of censors at the
port of arrival, enabling the mail to
be forwarded without delay by the
vessel carrying the goods to which
they related.
NOMINEE HUGHES REPLIES
TO WILSON'S STATEMENTS.
Characterized as "Regrettable" His
Reference to New York 80 Cent Gas.
Dayton, C, Sept. 25. Charles E.
Hughes, addressing an audience in
Memorial hall tonight, replied to state
ments in President Wilson's speech of
Saturday in connection with the pas
sage of the A damson law.
Mr. Hughes characterized as "most
regrettable" the reference made by
President Wilson to the SO cent gas
case in New York as an instance where
the courts had refused to declare a
rate fixing law unconstitutional in ad
vance of determining how it would op
erate. "It has been sought to draw an
analogy," Mr. Hughes said, "between
6uch a case and legislation in advance
of inquiry. The courts have nothing
to do with the question of the wisdom
of policy of legislation. Questions of
constitutionality come bofore the
courts after the legislature had acted,
presumably with knowledge of the
facts and upon careful inquiry."
PRIMARIES TO BE HELD
IN MASSACHUSETTS TODAY
Deepest Interest is Centered in Dem
ocratic Gubernatorial Fight.
Boston, Sept. 25. Primaries for
the nominations of democratic, repub
lican and prohibition candidates for
the November election will be held
throughout the state tomorrow. A
light vote is expected by leaders of
all parties, as contests are few.
Greatest interest attaches to the re
sult of the democratic gubernatorial
fight, in which Charles H. Cole, who
recently resigned as adjutant-general
of the state mlitia, and Frederick W.
Mansfield, former state treasurer, are
the contestants. Other candidates
on the state ticket are without oppo
sition. PASSENGER ELEVATOR DROPPED
WHILE CARRYING 14 PERSONS
In Federal Building, Boston Only
One Man Injured.
Boston, Sept. 25. A passenger ele
vator in the Federal building, carrying
14 persons, dropped from the second
floor to the basement today, injuring
one man, W. S. Titus of the Hyde
Park district was cut by a falling
clamp, the parting of which caused the
drop. Others were shaken up, but
not hurt.
BURTON WILSON ARRESTED
BY CARRANZA OFFICIALS
Is Chairman of the American Club of
Mexico City.
, Washington Sept. 25. Burton "Wil
son, .president of the American club
and of the International Citizens com
mittee in . Mexico City, has been ar
rested by Carranza officials on the
charge of "pernicious activity." Spe
cial Agent Parker advised the state
department today of the. incident and
eaid Mr. Wlleon may (be- deported.
Condensed Telegrams
The Dutch Government has prohib
ited the export of cattle.
A heavy earthquake shock was felt
at San Juan Del Sud, Nicaragua.
Miss Jane N. Morgan, sailed for Bor
deaux on the French liner Lafayette.
The Brooklyn Daily Eagle will cel
ebrate its seventy-fifth anniversary on
October 26.
An earthquake of moderate intensi
ty occurred about 2,300 miles from
Washington.
Bakery products to the value of al
most a half billion dollars were pro
duced in 1914.
Three cases of infantile paralysis
were reported yesterday, making 13
now in New" Britain.
Twenty-six cases of infantile paral
ysis were reported to the State Health
Department at Albany.
The first case of infantile paralysis
in over a month was reported to the
health authorities in Torrington.
Seventeen persons were put to death
as a result of recent trials at Hasselt,
Belgium, on the charge of espionage.
Rookies to the number of 1,000 took
the oath of allegiance to the United
States at the Plattsburgh training
camp.
Elison Scott, a negro sentenced to be
hanged for the murder of his sister-in-law,
was reprieved for the eighth
time.
Two hundred and fifty drivers em
ployed by Bordens Condensed Milk Co..
at its three depots in The Bronx went
on strike.
A freshman class estimated to num
ber more than 700 was on hand for
the opening of the 281st year at Har
vard University.
Three attempts to assassinate Dr.
Julian Irias, the liberal candidate for
President of Nicaragua, have been
made at Managua.
The steamship Bay State of the
Eastern Steamship Corporation, bound
for Portland, Me., was wrecked on the
rocks off Cape Elizabeth.
Richard Phillip Stanhope, lieuten
ant of the Grenadier Guards and heir
to his brother, the seventh Earl Stan
hope, was killed in action.
NlniBsino Mines ComDanv yesterday
declared an extra dividend of five per
cent in addition to the regular quart
erly dividend of five per cent.
John Wynkoop, of New York, was
appointed acting professor of design
in the department ' of architecture in
the -University of Pennsylvania.
Two persons were killed when an
automobile in which they were riding
overturned in New Rochelle road, near
the Pelham Bay bridge, N. Y.
Ministers of New York city appoint
ed Oct. 15 as "Go-to-Church Sunday."
It is hoped that many of the 1,000,000
non-church goers may be reclaimed.
The Tennessee Supreme Court held,
to be constitutional the so-called
locked law which prohibits the main
tnance for bars or buffets in clubs,
clubs.
Two skeletons, each bearing marks
of violence, have convinced the police
of Brooklyn that a murder farm has
been discovered in the Jamaica Bay
district.
Edwin F. Sweet resigned as assist
ant secretary of commerce yesterday
and will leave for Michigan to open
his campaign as democratic candidate
for governor.
The British Government contracted
with American copper producers for
200,000 long tons or 448,000,000 pounds
of copper, at a price slightly below 27
cents a pound.
Clyde Cenklin, of Edgewater, N. J.,
employed as a bridge tender at xne
Fort Lee ferry, was killed by a train
on the New York Central Railroad at
129th Street, New York.
The bill providing for a referendum
on compulsory service in Australia,
which was adopted by the House of
Representatives, passed the Senate on
third reading by a vote of 17 to 9.
President Wilson returned to Long
Branch, N. J., at 8.15 o'clock last night
from Baltimore. He at once motored
from the railway station to Shadow
Lawn, aocompanied by Mrs. Wilson.
The New York Zoological Society is
making a strong effort to raise by
subscription $8,000 with which to erect
a building of the park suitable for the
exhibition of the heads and horns col
lections. Dr. Laure Muller, Secretary of State
for Brazil, sailed for home on . the
Brazilian steamship Rio de Janeiro,
after spending a month at Saratoga
and the Adirondacks for the benefit of
his health.
Fifty miles of the new Erie Barge
Canal will be completed and in com
mission next season from Jackson
burg, its present end, to Oneida Lake,
according to an announcement by the
Chamber of Commerce.
Warren K. Billings, on trial at San
Francisco for the murder of Myrtle
Van Loo, one of the persons killed by
the explosion of a bomb during the
San Francisco preparedness parade,
was found guilty in the first degree.
Fifty-four hits in fifty-eight shots
with 12-inch guns is said to be the
record established by the battleship
Florida in the Atlantic fleet's individ
ual target practice at short and inter
mediate ranges off the Virginia coast.
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
ARRESTED FOR WIFE MURDER.
Oscar D. McDaniel of St. Joseph, Mo.,
Held Without Bail.
St. Joseph, Mo., Sept. 25. Oscar D.
McDaniel, prosecuting attorney of Bu
chanan county, was arraigned here to
day before Justice Wlleon on a state
charge of having murdered his wife,
Mrs. Harriet Moss McDaniel, on the
night of July 15. His application for
bond was refused and the preliminary
hearing of the case was set for Wed
nesday. McDaniel, during the arraign
ment, asked that he be given an early
hearing. He is a candidate for re-glectioaJiuSrqyfiBaber.
LEGISLATURE MAY DEAL WITH STRIKE
Governor Whitman to be Urged to Convene General
Assembly in Extraordinary Session
40 OF 800,000 WORKERS READY TO QUIT
A "48-Hour Demonstration" is Meeting the Approval of
Men Not in Favor of a General Strike, Organiz
ed Workers to Suspend Operations for That
Period Just to "Show Their Strength" First Accident
On a New York Subway Line Since the Transit Strike
'
Began Occurred Yesterday, When in a Rear-End Colli
sion Thirteen Persons Were Injured, Two of Them Seri
ously A Few Attempts at Violence Were Made Yesterday.
New York. Sept. 25. With labor
leaders continuing their efforts to
bring about a general suspension of
work as an aid to the striking car
men in this city, members of the state
legislature from the metropolis, at a
meeting late today, decided to ure
Governor Whitman to convene the
legislature in extraordinary session to
deal with the strike situation.
The governor arrived in "the city to
night and it was expected a commit
tee appointed bv the legislators would
wait upon him tomorrow. The labor
leaders have set Wednesday as the
time for a general tieup of the city's
industries.
Nearly 40 per cent, of the 800,000
union workers in New York and vi
cinity have avowed their intention of
quitting their places, according to
Hugh Frayne, orwanizer of the Amer
ican Federation of Labor.
43 Hours' Demonstration Favored.
Discussion in labor circles not in
sympathy with the plans of confer
ence leaders took the form today of
favoring a 4 8 -hour "demonstration"
rather than a general strike, it was
said. If organized workers suspended
operations for a short period, just "to
show their strength" it was asserted,
the way would be paved for a settle
ment of the traction strike.
Rear End Collision in Subway.
The first accident on a subway line
since the transit strike began Sep
tember 6. occurred today. Thirteen
persons were injured, two seriously,
in a rear end collision . at the 207th
Street station, on that part of the
subway system running on an ele
vated structure above the street. It
was said the motorman of the rear
train leaped from his post and allow
ed the train to crash into the rear of
a train standing at the station. He
was arrested later. There were no
passengers in the forward train, but
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES IN
IMPORTANT GITfES OF MEXICO
Mexican Representatives Admit at
Opening Session of Fourth Week.
New London, Conn., Sept. 25. Addi
tions to the already large mass of in
formation regarding Mexico's Internal
conditions were made at the confer
ence of the Mexican-American joint
commission today. The outstanding
feature of the first meeting of the
fourth week, however, apparently was
the repetition of the failure of the
Mexican representatives to bring about
an agreement on the withdrawal of the
American troops.
The Mexicans produced reports cal
culated to- show that the attack on
Chihuahua by Villa forces was of no
great importance. The reports dis
counted the likelihood that the ban
dit chieftain's prestige would grow to
the extent that he would become a
menace to peace along the border.
The American commissioners were
in receipt of reports that placed the
situation in a less optimistic light.
Until all doulbt is removed as to the
ability of the Mexican army to control
the situation along the border, and
especially along the Chihuahua fron
tier, it appears improbable that the
Americans will enter into an agree
ment for the withdrawal of General
Pershing's army.
The Mexican representatives today
admitted the existence of typhus and
other contagious diseases' in many of
the more important cities of Mexico.
EXPRESSIONS OF REGRET
MADE BY GREAT BRITAIN
For Seizure at Hong Kong of Ameri
can Goods Consigned to Manila.
Washington, Sept. 25. Informal ex
pressions of regret have been made by
Great Britain to the state department
for seizure at Hong Kong of American
goods consigned to Manila on board
the steamers Chinese Prince, Kafue
and Aymeric. It was learned today
that in response to a vigorous protest
by the United States, assurances had
been given that there would be no
more such seizures.
The British action first was explain
ed on the ground that the goods were
consigned to blacklisted firms. Later
it was claimed that several of the firms
were ringleaders in a ''junta" alleged
to be seeking to cause a rebellion in
tndia. .
The seizure of (packages from the
Chinese Prince caused very bitter feel
ing in Manila and a maximum fine
was levied on her when she entered
port with her manifest short. The fine
was later reduced to J'25,000 and fi
nally rebated when the missing goods
arrived on another ship.
WATCHING ADVANCES
OF" BREAD PRICES
Officials of Both the Department of
Justice, and Federal Trade Commis
sion. ,
Washington, Sept. 25. Officials of
both the department of justice and the
federal trade commission are watch
ing advances of brrd prices with con
siderable interest, but so far no gen
eral investigation has been determined
upon. Federal attorneys who have
full power to look into the situation
in their respective districts were di
rected some months ago to watch for
any evidence of illegal practices.
the rear train was . well filled. Most
of the injured were in the front car
and they include two patrolmen on
strike duty. The smashed cars
caught fire, but the blaze was quick
ly extinguished.
Heavy Traffic.
Heavy traffic on the subway and
elevated lines since the strike began,
it was announced, has made up the
financial deficit caused by the strike
on the surface lines of the New York
Railways company. Traffic on the
surface lines today was 8 per cent,
normal, it was said. Subway and ele
vated traffic was above normal.
Attempts at Violence. i
Sporadic attempts at violence and '
several arrests in connection with the
strike were reported by the police.
The grand jury which, is investigat
ing charges of disorder and other un
lawful acts in connection with the
strike was charged by the court to
day not to give any consideration to
a pamphlet dealing with alleged dis
orders sent to the jurors by Theodore
P. Shonts. president of the Inter
borough Rapid Transit company and
the New York Railways company. .
The document did not constitute legal
evidence, the court said.
Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the
public service commission, announced
there was. no danger of a suspension
of work in the construction of the new
dual subway system. An agreement
between the International Tunnel and,
Subway Construction Union of Amer--lea
and the contractors, Mr. Straus
said, specifically provides that the
subway workers cannot be called out
on a sympathetic strike. For them :
to disregard the agreement, Mr.
Straus added, "would deal a serious
blow to collective barganing and dis-cnni-aee
employers from making
I agreements with-workers, thus dis- '
crediting organized laDor. ...
PRESIDENT WILSON AD-DRESSED
NATIONAL GRAIN DEALERS
Discussed Ways in Which American
Commerce Can be Expanded.
Baltimore, Md., Sept, 25. President
Wilson delivered a speech almost de
void of politics before the National
Grain Dealers convention here today.
Discussing ways in which American
commerce can be expanded, he told
an audience of 300 people that through
the new tariff commission, the trade
commission, the federal reserve act,
the shippin bill and similar measures,
he expected business men in this
country to open up a new era for the
nation.
"The purpose of legislation in the ;
Immediate future in this country." Mr.
Wilson declared, "is going to remove
all ingenious constructions and make
It perfectly clear what the liberties as
well as what the restrictions of trade
are in this country."
Every effort was made by the presi
dent to keep the visit to Baltimore
non-partisan, but when he entered the s;
Lyric theatre for his speech he was
greeted with a four-minute demonstra
tion which kept him bowing again and
again. A band playing Dixie and oth
er popular tunes added to" the din of
the cheering and handclapping. The
theatre was packed with grain dealers
from all parts of the country and their
friends. Many visitors were turned
away. American and Maryland flags
were used in the decorations. The
president spoke emphatically and sev
eral exclamation points, usually miss
ing in his addresses, were found in
the offlcial copy of his speech.
Regret that politics might interfere
with the discussion of problems fac
ing American business was expressed
by the president at the outset. He de
clared he had "a supreme contempt
for partisan action" although believ
ing in "party action." He urged that
his audience divest itself of "the un
conscious that we are in the midst of
a political campaign."
Once the president, speaking of the
nations of Latin-America, said his j
"chief concern" had been to see that
"nothing was done that did not show
friendship and good faith on our part."
This statement was greeted by the
most prolonged applause of the speech. .
SOCIALIST ALLAN L. BENSON
ATTACKS PRESIDENT WILSON '
For the Passage of the Army Reor
ganization Bill.
Providence, R. I., Sept. 25. Allan L.
Benson, candidate of the socialist par
ty for president, addressed an audi
ence in Infantry Hall here tonight and
attacked President Wilson and the
democratic members of congress for
the passage of the army reorganization
bill, which, Mr. Benson charges, con
tains a proviso which gives the presi
dent authority to draft citizens for
military service. The word "draft" was
inserted in place of "call," he asserted,
while the bill was in the hands of the
committee and the speaker blamed
President Wilson for signing the bill
after the change had been made.
Movements of Steamships.
Montreal, Sept. 25. Arrived:
Steamer Missanabie, Liverpool.
Gibraltar, Sept. 23. Passed: Steam
er Roma, New York and Providence
for Marseilles.
Kirkwall, Sept. 23. Arrived:
Steamer United States, New York for '
Christiajisand. Sailed: 22nd, steamer
Kristianiafjord, (from
York.
Bergen) '. New
