'
NIGHT
EXTRA
s
VOL. in. NO. 11
il
FINANCIAL EDITION
).p
.
ttuenmg
sst JMBgLJ fsss?'tiissstf;:M fKfM
He&ger
NIGHT
EXTRA .
ALLIES CAPTURE COMBLES:
bV VXVTHM m VW 1 j ii j.j r
KUMAN1AN TKOOPS REGAIN
, TWtt HUNGARIAN PASSES
Anglo-French Break Way Into Great
German Stronghold in Terrific
Smash on Somme Berlin
Concedes Losses
British Push- Way Toward Bapaume Vulcan and Szur
duk Positions Again Lost by Austro-Hungarians.
Bulgar Attacks on Salonica Front Crushed.
Russians Resume Offensive
- Smashing their way forward in a scries of loinfc assault. trm Alii, fcn
Ifwon a big victory on the Sommo front by penetrating; the important town of
wmDics. ucsperaie nanq-to-nana lighting is now raging in the streets between
Xh$ Ango-Frcnch troops and remnants of the German garrison.
Attacking 'the German positions simultaneously north and south, the British
and .French vied with each other to be the first to enter Combles, the honor
falling to General Hnig's men. However, the French were able to occupy the
southern outskirts and Combles's cemetery, on the eastern edge of the town.
To the east of Combles tho Germans were rolled back from fortified villages,
jwhich they strovo stubbornly to hold. By the capture of Fregicourt, a mile cast
of Combles, by the French, the Allies forged a steel ring around the town and
cut the only lino of communication that tho Germahs still held.
i j. vjtwi.uiiD Him unaui-vi'ssiuuy u lessen tne pressure on tne sommo
front by attacking south of Bcthunc. These attacks were repulsed.
On the eastern front the Russians aro again flinging great masses of troons
against the German and Austro-Hungarian positions and violent battles have
developed, particularly in the Carpathians.
Savage fighting developed at several po'mts along the line in Greek Mace
donia. On the west end of this front the Bulgarians made strong counter
attacks, which the French, RusSlahsi and Serbians have checked.
The recapture of Vulcan nnd Szurduk Passes, in Transylvania, by the
Rumanians is admitted officially by Berlin.
In addition to sky actions over the battle fronts, both the Allies and Germans
carried out raids. British airmen bombarded central Belgium and the Germans
again attacked England with Zerfpelins, killing twenty-nine persons.
Tho revolutionary movement in Greeqo is spreading and now extends to
Corfu. The commander of the Greek garrison at Corfu deserted his post and
has gone to Salonjca to join the revolutionaries.
FRENCH PENETRATE COMBLES
THROUGH CEMETERY AND
POSITIONS ON OUTSKIRTS
PARIS, Sept S,
i. .French troops have, penetrated Combles,
ene of the three main objectives of the
Vi Allies on the Somme front. Trapped by the
ft lightning auvanco Of both French arid JJrit-
IM1 WUIBt t UOIIUtlll 1WIW BOMIMUKl --
Juirorn zooo 10 auuu nas Been surreuimeu
"Cembles. Their surrender is oeneveu cer
tain unless they elect to die fighting or.
Teutonlq counter-attacks open a wide cap
for their retreat
Fregicourt, one mile east of Combles, has
been captured.
After nearly three months of fighting- the
life and death -struggle for Combles, the
strategic French town betwejnTeronne and
Bapaume on the Somme front, has entered
Its' final phase.
i Military critics believe that Combles will
be entirely In the hands of the Anglo-
ft. ,1CUU1 lYlimU UIO lICAb lU!ljr-CJf, ..,.
I" 7aa & mult nf th Allies' advance yesterday
and today. Yesterday's advance carried
.1 A - T 1 S J, -m. M.H.. .... t.
uio AOglo-JP reucii iwwwm una ihiw v
; Otteen-mlie front
The British are only three miles from
, Bapaume, one of the three main objectives
Cf the Allies.
GEIIMAN ATTACKS FAIL.
Between Bethune and the Somme Itlver
the Germans H9ve launched counter-attacks
in an effort to alleviate the pressure
around Combles, but all were repulsed, the
War Office stated.
(Combles lies In a hollow, surrounded by
kills which rise to a height, of about BOO
feet Lebse wood and Falfcmoot "farm,
'which the British captured early this
month, are on one of these eminences. It
1- 1 in the neighborhood of Falfemont farm
that the French and British forces met-so
that the fight for possession of Combles
''represented a neck-and-neck race between
f the Allied armies.)
fj These successes for the French were an-
aounced In the official communique of the
L French War Office today.
Pushing forward In powerful night at
tacks, after a Btrong bombardment of the
(Jet-man positions, the French occupied both
Combles cemetery and the outskirts of the
'town.
The cemetery He on the eastern' edge
' ftC Combles and there was furious flKlitlnr
over the graves and amid the tombstones
jen the Germans tried to stem the French
' adTance.
W. T7waYQ-nAwrm OTTTTiTtrtTOW
Wr Fighting with desperation and despair.
y Yfae German garrison In Combles Is offering
raost stubborn resistance. The soldiers
i believed to be under orders to die rather
an surrender.
Under blasts of artillery fire from Qer-
aa batteries the British and French
Continued en Fas fill. Column Twe
THE WEATHER
WSJTfw
FORECAST
Vr Philadelphia and vicinity
V ewuuy iomgr.1 ana trraneeuuy,
tUadilu rUina temveraturi: aen
idt,"mo9tly south. '
I )wM.tf AM .W
lPf rUtt,,,y, 6 S a.m. I Bun Mt.,.,. SiUp.ta,
WmLKyfAXK RIVBK TIDB CHANGH8
r-WKai-tiffp vrynvp
fe,,weUr.,l!4.s.UHi w.Ur.. IrtfP.m.
tbupbkAtukk at kach mdb
"I
3l7i iui
I4ll ool
u
'nViTrn
.71
I-OST AJTD IODVB
VULCAN AND SZURDUK PASSES
RETAKEN BY RUMANIANS,
BERLIN OFFICIALLY ADMITS
BEItMN, Sept J6. The Vulcan and
Szurduk passes, the two gateways to Tran
sylvania, "have again fallen to the Ruma
nians. After a twenty-four-hodr battle of the' ut
most ferocity the Austro-Qerman forces
which last week captured the two passes,
wero again thrown from the heights sur
rounding them and, according to official ad
mission by the German War Office' this
afternoon, "were taken back last night on
order."
An air raid on Bucharest and Bulgarian
successes In Macedonia also appeared In the
official statement.
BULGARIAN ATTACKS BEATEN
BACK ON SALONICA FRONT,
PARIS REPORT ASSERTS
PAIUS, Sept 28.
Very large Bulgarian forces launched a
powerful attack against the French near
Armenohr, on the right bank of the Broda
east of Fiorina, but were checked by French
screen fire. It was officially announced today.
The Bulgars fled In disorder after suffer
ing tremendous losses. West of Fiorina,
French and Russian troops captured fifty
four machine guns In violent fighting.
The artillery duel on the Struma, Vardar
and Serbian fronts continues, with French
artillery vigorously bombarding Bulgarian
positions.
RUSSIANS REPULSE VIOLENT
ATTACKS BY TEUTONS IN ZONE
NORTH OF LAKE KALDYTCHEV
PETROORAD, Sept It. After tremen
dous artillery attacks the Germans as
saulted Russian positions north of Lake
Kaldytchev with two battalions, but were
repulsed with great losses, It was officially
announced today. .
rETROGRAD, Sept 26. Although the
official communications have shed tittle
light on recent developments In the war
situation. It Is learned from staff officers
that after a long lull the battles at all im
portant points on General BrusailofTs front
are again assuming the intensity which
characterized the first period of his ad
vance. '
The principal centlrs of netl6n are the
districts near Vladlmlr-Volynskl and west
- y ..,,. u IIhIU. u.,mm m..A ,t. J1.....
pathlans, and In each of these territories
there has been a general resumption of the
fighting, which hns spread to adjacent sec
tors until the whole southwestern war the
ater, from the Prlpet jnarshe to the Dan
ube, may be said to be again In action.
The nature of this actlpn, however, has un
dergone a conspicuous change since the
first smashing blows In Brueslloffa cam
paign, i
Although the Russians still claim the
initiative, it Is evident, that the Oerman
counter-attacks ore becoming constantly
more frequent and more vigorous, and in
the large numbers of reinforcements sent
to these regions from other fronts, as well
as the mors aggreselve character of the
Oerman fighting-, there are signs that Field
Marshal von Illndenburg, the new chief of
staff, is planning a new camjmlsn to re
cover the old positions before winter sets In.
To meet this the Russians have already
begun a fresh offensive, ths.detallaof whleh
have not yet been nnouned, but' whleh
has been undertaker! on a large scale, with
the object of making a desperate effort to
piers the Austro-German fronts before tht
fall oapal- is over.
FJtiiaMltitU MotercyeWst Hurt
HAWUW,lJMlPWey.
Backer, of ' - nwmi'
-. . kit. BiMiir &
rBVl
jf w ! "PiBjp sjhW fjP Pssj
Lli. ahtU
fTZj.l eoHMsd With
SZ il. Injured lalsrsslty sj bis
- "7- . i- 4 fc.
fm m am mm
SJVSS j.
Ht0mmBSL
PIULADBLPIIIA, TUESDAY, SEPTJiJnJER 2G, 101G
Oerruest, HIS, at ins rcsuo Lsegn CouriHt
pi'V if
j JssBBsf SSBBFya''' f k BBBBBBsl
' ! BBSS JBBB' vS BBBBB',"BBBi- itw BSBBU
JbbHJbbbbi?bM' l(7i(fc .! s5f4 -',,' K N
GENERAL GEORGE BELL, JR.
His report that Villa was present
at the recent Chihuahua raid and
that Carranzistas deserted to him
in largo numbers was flatly contra
dicted today by Secretary Lansing.
ZEPPELIN FLEET
AGAIN BOMBARDS
BRITAIN; 29 DIE
Seven Airships Shell East,
Northeast and Midland
Counties
DRIVEN OFF BY GUNS
LONDON, Sept 8.
Twenty-nine persons were killed In last
night's Zeppelin raid on England, the second
within forty-elght hours. General French,
commander of the home forces, reported
today,
A number of small houses were wrecked
or damage. No damage was done to fac
tories or military establishments.
Seven Zeppelins took part In the raid.
The south, east and nprtheasfcounttea and
north midlands were attacked, principally
Industrial centers In the latter region.
Anti-aircraft played upon the raiders
wi(h considerable effectiveness despite the
fact that none was brought down. The loss
of the two Zeppelins in Saturday night's
raids did not' deter the Germans' from risk
ing, more airships In bombing attacks, but
some British aeronautic experts believe
smaller dirigibles. Instead of the targe super-Zeppelins,
which offer splendid targets,
will visit England on future raids.-
DANIELS CHARGED
WITH FAVORITISM
IN SHELL AWARD
Commissioned Officers of
Atlantic Fleet Associate
Secretary With Scandal
RALEIGH CONTRACTOR
Explosives of Inferior Quality
Made by Inexperienced
Manufacturer
ALLIES BRING DOWN THIRTEEN
GERMAN PLANKS IN WEST
Lose Nine Machines to Gcrmanu Forty
- Germans Killed in Raid
LONDON, Sept 28. Extraordinary aerial
activity continues on the west front The
daring of the French and British filers has
communicated Itself to other fronts, where
raids and combats are now becoming the
feature of operations.
On Sunday French and British aviators
brought down thirteen more German planes,
while they lost nine machines. Scores' of
raids on German posts and fortified towns
wero carried out In the course of the day.
Berlin reports that In the air raid, car
ried out by French planes on Essen, where
the great Krupp arms plant Is (located, the
material damage was unimportant
Forty Germans wero killed or injured In
the British air raid on St Denis Westrem,
Belgium, on Friday. Two sheds and three
aeroplanes were burned, according to the
Amsterdam Telcgraaf.
By a Stair Comtvonient
WASHINGTON, Sept 28. Sensational
charges have been made by commissioned
ofilcers of -the Atlantlo fleet that big gun
shells purchased of an Inexperienced mu
nitions manufacturer In Raleigh, N. C, the
home of Secretary of the Navy Josephus
Daniels, were of such Inferior quality that
when fired In battle practice they broke
Into hundreds of plece and dropped over
the ship's side. Instead of carrying several
miles to Jhe target The story comes from
not one ship, but several, and It has be
come a fleet scandal, according to Informa
tion received here today.
Investigation nt the Bureau of Ordnance
disclosed the fact that despite the unsat
isfactory results obtained, Secretary of the
Navy Daniels gave the company In his
home city a new contract for J40.B00 In six
and eight Inch shells as recently as last
month. Secretary Daniels has admitted
that the Raleigh Iron Works Company had
never manufactured shells until given a
contract by the United States Government
for 12,000 of them, ranging In size from
5.S to eight Inches. The first contract was
awarded the company by the Navy De
partment In November, 19U. After that
time tho original purchases were Increased,
so that the total contracts given to date
amount to $155,000.
Secretary Daniels says he Is well ac
quainted with the ofilcers of the company.
He admits' that It Is a small concern, but
little known, and that the making of muni
tions Is a new thing with the company. H
declines to discuss the results obtained from
firing the shells supplied, but contends they
were manufactured as the law requires,
under the supervision of a commissioned
officer of the navy.
Secretary Daniels said the. contract was
awarded the Raleigh Iron Works Company
because It was the lowest bidder.
Commander Charles B. MoVay, Jr., as
sistant chief of ordnance In tbe Navy De
partment, says that before a munitions con
tract. is given to a newtbtdder.a'renresentov
'five of the department' is sent to the nlant
of the bidder to satisfy himself that the
provisions of the contract can be met Per
sons who live n Raleigh say the company
that has received the 1165,000 munitions
contracts under this Administration Is little
more than a backam!th shop, located In the
heart of the city.
Officers of. the navy who attempted to
uso the shells, which cost the United States
from (5.40 to $16.76 each, say that each
one was stamped with the name of the
Raleigh manufacturer. The failure to get
satisfactory results aro generally known
among the officers of the fleet, but neither
Commander StcVay nor any other officer
wouia uiscuss tne report here.
Some of the stories reaching Washington
are to the effect the shells "exploded" as
soon as they left the muxzle of the guns,
but ordnanco officers contend that Is Im
possible, because shells for target practice
do not carry an explosive In the head.
LIST OF CONTRACTS
Considerable curiosity was manifested In
the Bureau of Ordnance when Inquiry was
made for a list of the awards to the Ra
leigh Iron Works. Many questions were
asked as to why the Information was de
sired, and when a statement was requested
as to what reports had teen received from
the vessels Of the fleet a flat refusal re
sulted. The books of the Navy Department show
that the Raleigh Iron Works Company on
November 30, 1914, was awarded Its first
contract as follows:
owe urlslnsl Incretitd Price Total
Ul IIVIW,UIIIIIBCU ID. Dflr Rntu.
0-Inch 2600 8000' I13.TA
7-Inch 1'OwJ 2(00 8. SO
.1300 0.60
Q U I4H NEWS
CINCINNATI. . . 0 0 0 10
PHILLIES 10 00 0
Kndzcr nnd Wlngo ; Dcninrce'nnd Killcrcr,
PITTSBURGH O O OO O O O
BOSTON,lstC o 1 O O 1 O O
Evans and Schmidt; Nclif nud Qowdy.
:
0 O- 6 ' 4' 2
1 x- 3 8 1
v .." ' -
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Woodbine race,' Peel plate, ?G0O added, maiden 2-year-olds
foaled in Canada, 5 1-2 furlongs Ring Dove, 115, Robinson, $23.20,
510.80, ?0.00, won; Wishaway, 115, Rice, $4.20, $3.70, second; OuL
.law, 115, McDermott, $7.00, thirfl. Time, 1.08 3-D.
FIKTi MENACES I. 0. 0. F. HOME FOR AGED
Several hundred aged Inmates of tho Odd Fellows' Homo at
Seventeenth and Tioga streets were removed from the new wing or
th building by tho attendants this afternoon when a firc.caused by
a defective fkc damaged that portion of the inaTHution to th oxtcut
of ccreraJ hundred dollars.
100 PER CENT EXTRA DIVIDEND FOR E. W. BLISS CO.
NEW YORK, Sept. 26. Another extra dividend of 100 por cent 'n addition to
the regular quarterly dividend of IVi per cent was declared on the common stock
of the IjJ. W. Bliss Company, The previous extra distribution of 100 per cent on
the Issue-was distributed on July U last. On Arjrll 1' and Januarv 1 lout nxtrn
dividends of 11U per cent wero distributed. Tho latest extra payment will be made
from tho accumulated net earnings of tho company on October 2, On the same
date tho usual quarterly dividend of ;2 per cent on the preferred stock will To paid.
For the payment of all the dividends the books will be closed September 26 and re
open ictoDcr z. ; ,, .-
U. S. TO PROSECUTE DEALERS WHO SOAK GRAIN
WASHINGTON, Sept. 26. Department of Agriculture agents today began col
lectins evidence upon which they may arrest grain dealers In various parts of the
country In a campaign by the department to stop tho wateraoaltlng of oats, re
sorted to to give the, pratn additional weight. Every Inspector of tho department
has been Instructed to' fret evidence upon which to base prosecutions where) water
soaking has been resorted to. Many complaints have come to the department from
grain buyers.
MAYOR'S FOES SEEK TO INVALIDATE BIG LOAN
Tlans to tie tho hands of the Smith administration by having the 1114,525,000
loan declared illegal have been made by, Penrose-McNIchol followers. Residents
of Overbrook havo retained an attorney to investigate the legality of tho loan bills,
and his Investigation will determine whether court action will be taken to havo the
loan declared illegal. i '
BIG BURSTING MAIN FLOODS NEW YORK SUBWAY
NEW YORK, Sept. 26. A twenty-four-inch city water main above tho Now
York end of the Stelnway tube at Vanderbllt avenue and Forfy-second street burst
today, causing serioUa congestion of traffic for hours. Tho elevator shaft used by
passengers was flooded. Tho police stopped traffic on Forty-second street from
Lexington to Madison avenues.
priob para dicifr
DRUfcMAD NEGRG
DRAGS BOY FROM
DOCTOR'S AUTO
Hundreds Witness Insani
Attack on Patient Near
.Ninth and Marknt: ' s
CHILD SIX YEARS OLD ' "I
WjP9H! f .-Missssl
FSV1'' KC HS&flsSSsHtsBsSt? ft. . i lBBBBBBBBI
IIAHRY XLAJBEH, JR.,
6-lnch
O.S-lnch
aoo
4S00
HlJttO
91 lrt
S55 fl fcn (n bah
MOO 0.40 0 100
The last contract awarded August 4, 1916,
less than two months ago, -was as follows:
v Prlc
8Ii, Amount par ahl. Total.
5-lneh jooo I1S.TS 1,7M
6-Inch 2000 U.50 23 750
VENIZELOS WILL ORDER
MOBILIZATION OF ARMY
Ex-Premier's Intention to Lead
Revolt Creates New Crisis
at Athena
ATHENS, Sept :.
Ex.rremler Ventxelos's sudden departure
for the Island of Crete,' held by the revolu
tionists, has created a new crisis In the
a reek capital.
Kpg Constantino motored to Athens to
consult the Trlmo Minister as soon as he
learned the news. A few hours later It
was announced that General Moschpoulos,
chief of the general staff, ha'd resigned.
Venlxelos will Issue a proclamation, call
ins; for the mobilisation of all Greek sol
diers upon his arrival at the island of Crete
today, according to his advisers here. He
may take, no further step before visiting
Salonica and possibly London, though It Is
rumored In some quarters that he will head
a revolution at ones,
Venlielos plans to visit all the Greek
Islands where revolutionary organisations
have been formed..
The CJreek revolution has extended to the
Wand of Corfu. An' Athens dlspateti to
the Hxohange Telegraph today stated that
Oeneral Soannon, commander of the Greek
garrison at Corfu, capital of the Wand,
has gone to galoalea, to loin the reyolu
tWnUU. Sis Go Down With Canadian SWp
wao. K. t., iwt stwnfr SUM-
SrtMTWU, D4HUM IMNM OMV t
m svsfw mm sjHw
THOMAS MARTINDALE
BURIED TODAY
"Hunter Home From the Hill"
Is Laid to. Rest in West
minster Cemetery
Under the utde and ttarry thy.
Dig me a grave and let me lie;
Glad did I live and gladly I die
And laid me down ullh a will.
This be 'the verte that they grave for
met
"Here ne lies inhere he longed to he;
Home it the tailor, home from the tea,
And the hunter home from the hill."
Robert Louis Stevenson,
Thomas Jartlndale., hunter, merchant,
author and Philadelphia's grand old man of
the .outdoors, who died September 12 on a
hunting, trip In British Columbia, was laid
to rest today,
Funeral services for the "hunter home
from the hill" were conducted by tho Rev,
Dr, Floyd W. Tomklns, rector of Holy Trin
ity Hplscopal Church, In the funeral parlors
Of Oliver If Bafr, )8!0 Chestnut street, this
afternoon, The body was burled In "West
minster Cemetery, under the open sky which
he loved so well.
The epitaph ef Stereftson Is particularly
applksaWe to Mr. Martlndale, Death over
took Mm on a hill, whr he "fell asleep"
In his .tent In a grove of trees, aeoer.il
te Of, W, Wayne Babeook, a wamher f
rkx EU3K
ssm.&tT
the tonus i
Mr a tsiU
Wtwrr w fssjsjyar,
P. R. R. MUST FURNISH ADEQUATE OIL SHIPPING FACILITIES
WASHINGTON, Sept. 26. Declaring It Is tho duty of every Interstato carrier
to furnish such cars as aro "reasonably" necessary for handling tho normal trafflc
of which It is a common carrier, the Government today lied Its brief In the Supreme
Court In Its suit to compel the Pennsylvania Itallroad to furnish adequate tank
par facilities for transportation of petroleum products. The suit Is based on the
refusal of the road to supply tank cars for tho shipment of products of tho Penn
sylvania I'araHln Company, shipments being made by barrel.
' ENVOY TO ROME, GERMANOPHILE, TO BE RECALLED
noili;, Sept. :fl. Scnor Plna y Millet, Spanish Ambassador to Italy, whose
sympathies have been strongly pro-German, Is to be recalled, tho Idea Naztonole
says, and will be succeeded by an envoy who will represerit Spain's now attitude
toward the Allies.
ROOSEVELT SPEAKS AT BATTLE CREEK SATURDAY
CHICAGO, Sept. 26 Announcement has been mado at western Republican
headquarters of final arrangements for a Hughes and Fairbanks rally at Iiattlo
Creek, Mich., Saturday, at which Colonel Roosevelt will deliver the principal address.
The meeting will bo held In a large tent, and arrangements have been made for a
number of overflow meetings.
CITY TO CARRY OWN COMPENSATION RISKS
Mayor Smith believes that the city can most economically take care of any
claims of city employes under the workmen's compensation act and yesterday de
clined the offer of the State Workmen's Insurance Fund to Issue such Insurance at
a cost of about 1170,000. At the same time ha notified department directors to see
that every safeguard be established to protect the .city employes from Injury and
thereby save the city unnecessary expense.
WHEAT OUTPUT IN NINE COUNTRIES DROPS OFF
OTTAWA, Out., Sept. 26. A cablegram received today from tho International
Institute of Agriculture at Home, Italy, gives the following estimates of this year's
crop production: The total production of wheat In Spain, England and Wales,
Ireland, Jtaly, Switzerland, Canada. United 8tates, India, Japan and Tunis Is ski
mated at 1,526,041,000 bushels, or 69.8 percent of the production In the sums coun
tries last year and 92.6 per cent of their average production In the five years
109-113.
RAILROAD MEN TEAR END OF OVERTIME
It Is now feared by many railroad employes that the eight-hour Jaw, when K
becomes effective, Js liable to act as u. boomerang. They say that as a result ef
the law th railroads have It wjthln their power to make overtime pay a thWg
of the past. 'This uneasiness exists principally among the yard emptaf es. Whether
the roads Intend to abaWeto overtime pay eeuld net he laarnea fw iesal rahed
officials yesterday,
RAILROAD INTO LOWER CALIFORNIA PLANN1D
CAUCXICOf Qal., t, M. Ootoasl X-Ubun CWttu, military governor of Law
California, has eahwrawa a report that ha would Wld a rallro4 'aeoo rasa Maziottt.
sir, w mam rna, oa-t QMr 4 nsllsmlg Tlirwss
art tMMi tNgV!
-''.Jfrjli.Sffl.l,
areas Um karssv tmm
A fllMts will t aaaa t tmmitVmi. ta rjg to
t
A crowd gathered quickly opposite Ltary's
book store, on 'Ninth street near Market,
this afternoon when, a .big nego pulled six-year-old
Harry Klalber, Jr., "a cripple, of
3606 Market streel, from the automobile of
.Dr. Louis Golden, E02S Woodland avenue.
The boy screamed and pedestrians, sup
posing that a kidnapping was under way,
hurried to the scene.- la the meantime tho
negro had succeeded In 'pulling the. boy
from the machine Oho big hand grasped
tbe. little cripple around the back of the
neck and the other hand of the negro' had
a grip In tho middle of the boy'.sVbask
where the child .wore a brace, "
"You come with me.V .mumbled the negro)
"stop that screaming1 or I'll 'flx you."
The negro yanked the prlppls roughly
across the sidewalk. The terror-stricken
lad, screaming at the top. of his volee,
grasped with both hands the Iron Tod of
an awning pole, ' and held on with all! his
strength. With an oath tho negro wrenehea
the boy loose and started to drag him' to
ward an alleyway. Attracted by the. boy's
screams a crowd of .two or three hundred
persons collected. Two men stepped -for-
ward to Interfere and this seemed to in-
iunaie me negro. '
"Stand back' he snarled, waving' a big
fist, "the first man whq comes wlll'drof."
At this juncture Joseph Tierney, a reserve
policeman stationed at Ninth and Market
streets, forced his, way through the crowd
and seized the negro. The latter struggled,
but, was subdued with a few taps of th
policeman's blackjack, lie was taken t
Central station, where he was booked as
Daniel Meek, no home.
The Tioy's father Is a tailor. His mother
has been sick and therefore was not told,
of the affair, "Buddy,"' as the boy has
been known in the neighborhood of his
home, has. been a cripple five years, having
suffered an v Injury to hi? spine. He has
been, wearing a brade during that time.
Hysterical from fright and bruised trass
the rough treatment he bad received frass
the hands of the, negro, little Harry was
placed back In the machine and driven !
his home. The boy s a patient of Dr.
Golden, and' the latter was giving him aa
ailing In his automobile.
CIGARETTES AND G0LDBACKS
FLASH THROUG&KER H(
W
wd,eytryifs that Mary wes 0$
Girl on Broadway Ajjtara -WHk
nt Pair .'ird:v,
NKW VflHK, ftMub'bsk'Jtikiisj'
va,"H oaiiiis," or, rpuw, in uns case.
a awe im
hlgfct. and
'trail of, laAs
,TKe ae
. display'
la.IU beta
risht an r
t& Uavwta sisor il
' '"- tssisauek thai
'aUettacXlMv ssgarsftsi oa the atfcer fig
was a roll M pre acta yafiew Mils,
MM II l WW MiMMUUUtUSa .,-
-1 J.'.d
.IM1I,..
' L 'Mt. , '
sethMpssK ciasMsmresM
VMldMfM- taday. la
sMissT.aMbasuuM- at a
l tfcA..aikiM
iVTsruig
W btt-UA JW Fssjm My Uv
UTICA, N. T.. Ul 2 Ifhm cvaaM
WVlkmss a. Macartney. WS was In
nmBmWm'
