. - i iAf;wu. ... gu
Honolulu: Hawaii territory, Tuesday. skpx)ember26, iir,
fla-
WG GEpRXSEAHD HIS GENERALS AT THE FRONT
SMASH-FOES
H IS MAJESTY. Central tiig an 4 iffe Prince of W.li (Upper piur) Throii8h Ouafd of Lancera On Ttefr Way To
(Meet President Poincaira. With Whom anrl r.m.r.i. T,r- ...i u i.t.j:u . - .. . .
General joffre Is Standing To the LtfV With President Poincaire. King George, Cenrl Foch and. General H.Ig In the Order Named
.:'i,v...... 4 . From Left To Right - v i'
. - .. . . . wvu, iu uiiuiu iuicr iv iq do seen in tno Jower net
" i . . . V 1 1ULI'. JMUiVlKI-K lsl -
ALLIES
W NORTH OF SOMME
lLIL'JUiNlL. .all
Toioiiioil
9r
' ' . )'';.. '.
Declares That President of Unit
ed States Likely Tor Find Con
stitution' Blocking Adamson
Eight Hour v Day Measure
: SCORES LONG BRANCH TALK
AS 'REGRETTABLE' UTTERANCE
Calls Law Effort, By Administra
tion To Make Political Capital
Out of the - Railroad 'Crisis
Which' Faced' Whole Nation
. .: vv ";-y;i :
(AssectsUd Frees ay federal Wireless.)
DAYTON, Ohio, September 26
Presidential ; candidate
Charles p. Hugherrin company
with : Governor Frank ; B. Willis
and other Republican state lead
ers,' opened th state campaign
yesterday with a big rally that
for enthusiasm indicated that Ohio
which shares the honors with Vir
ginia as "being the, birthplace of
presidents, would Tetum an over
whelming majority for the G. O.
P.' at the November election.
- Tiklpg as his'teJtt the .speech
delivered PresidenV Wilson on
Saturday relating to the benefits
of thq;j.damj?jiiktttfcbttr lawvp
, Hughes characterized the Address
as one of the most regrettable ut
terances of the Democratic pres
ident, and especially took excep
tion to the fact that , Wilson had
gone out of his way tq hark back
to the old fight in New York city
for eighty cent gas in defense of
bis forcing through Congress the
drastic Adamson law.
Wilson's Big Mistake
"The President's principal mis
take in forcing the Adamson law
through Congress," said Hughes,
"lies in the fact that he did not
take the trouble to learn whether
or not the law would be constitu
tional. Apparently lie made no
investigations to learn whether
the law would be of such a nature
that it would not work hardship
and injustice in, its operation.
"He did not, apparently, consid
er the enormous investments of
the railroads that are forced to
meet an uaUsuallfnanciaT- condi
tion withouVhaving sufficient time
to prepare for the change.'
"I believe that th la;vill be
wrecked on the'roek 61 ttneonatttution
ality. Mr. Wilson, Jn. hii. effort to
make capital, out of a erltieal aatiooal
situation, Ignored, the fact tbat the
legislation1 that seemed to be'mant for
a top to wis tb labor rota would bare
to pase through the alembio of the an:
preme court before it could become a
part of the org ale law of the natioo.
Wot To Be Confuted
"For one, I refuse to be ooafused by
legislttioa of this -kind, and I take
teia eoeaaioa Jo protest against soy en
deavor to ofn tli thinking of
aaaa Americana by talking about en
eight hour day.waea nothingof tbia
ort wa a part of the differences be
tween the railroad men and the bead
of the railroad systems.
" What the neo demanded wit a new
cale of wages. They did not bring
into the disusMion the elffbt-hour day.
-mere wu a clean-out , demand
for a
rhange! ia the aobedule of wages owing
to the overtime that waa made nncerf
eary for tba long n ma.Tbey did not
w.w cigMc-svur uujt squ ina
action of the Preaident tn making thia
chief iaaue aema to mo to have been
aolely for politiaal purpoaaa.
Claims Extravagant ,
"But thia, ia only a part of the ad
min Intra tion of broken pledgee to which
tba Americas people haVe become ae
euatomed. 'The Demoernti have made
eitravagant elalma, auoh tlalma aa are
only heard from the domogogue. All
there elaima havt beea ignored and the
(Continued on Page 3)
r
1
I-- '
(Auociate4 Treat Vy rederaT, WlreUw.)
EL P ABO, September ,2 An honor
sever previously paid to an enlinteil
man In the United Mtatea army in paid
to the memory or Hergeaut Owen
Byerne, Twenty third United Ktatea In
funtry, In. or d era iaauui rom the head
qnartera of Ma jor General J. Franklin
Bell yeeterday.
, Tbeae ordera eommand tbat the new
eamp eHtabliHhed for the tenth provis
ional diviaion, on border duty, be
nemed Camp Owen Byerne. It ia cua
tomary in the army to eeleut cumi
namea from the Hit of ofliear deaerv
Ing of apeeial mention for their it
viuea. Thia ia the flrat occaMion on
-which that precedent baa been broken.
Hergeant Byerne waa killed in thin
city laat Thuraday while on duty with
I the Drovoit suard. He hail jntril
aaloon to atop a drunken bral in
i wbich aoldiera bad become mixed up
and loat bU life ia the tttht tbnt en
, auea, ...... , ,
TYPHUS FEVER RAMPANT
IN BIG MEXICAN CITIES
(AHoeltUd Presa by fadtral Wlralui.)
NEW LONDON, Connecticut, Sep
tember 2(1 Mexioan eomraiaaiont'ra at
the joint eommisaion 'a aeaelons beru
yeaterday admitted that many of the
largeat oitlea ia Mexico' have reported
the exiatence of typhus fever in alarm
ing quantities.
II C
GENERAL ORDERS
HONORSERGEANT
-
I ' '
NAVY MEN SALVAGE !
F
(AuoeUU4 ft kf Fidsral Wireless)
WASHINGTON, 'September 20 It ia
rrpnrted to the nuvy department that
cvi-rytliirg tltttt -can bo Httved from the
wreok of the niiwr Memphis, ashore
mi thu Hanto Diimiiigo count, ban been
salvaged. '
All 'uiis and movable machinery are
out ii ml ready for shipment to the
I'niVd Htates. 'be Memphis, under
her former name of Tennessee, is -affectionately
rememhered by thousandi
of war refugees, for, after taking to
Kinnpe the gold that relieved the dis
tress aiming Americans caught by the
whv, rln' transported thousands of rcf
iii'ch from Palestine to Kgypt as well
m protecting American .interests in
tl'iit iliKtrict.
Her totnl tonnage won tt.ftOO; she
'nrrioil a eomphnieut of 9S0 offlcerrt
ami men, ami her imun battery consist
ed of four ten-inch guiis. While at
iim liwr Hanto Domingo harbor, where
li recently sent in connection
with the revolution in that country,
slic a Htruck by what appears to have
lieen a combination of hurricane and
tiilnl wave, which drove her, in spite
of tier twenty five feet dsaft, Serosa a
Btretcli of wuter ordinarily about four
feet deep and deposited her eight. feet
above the water line on' a rock in the
.inner harbor. One hundred and thir
teen rttsanlties among ber crew have
.been reported, including more than
forty killed.
1C
ROM WRECK
. , '.a- .'.'
ITT1 --x '.,
r v.
GOTHAMITES APPEAL
FOR AID
(Auoetatsd Pru by Federal Wiralesa.)
v NKW YORK, . Heptember t So-Tbe
first trnnsit accideut, since the tTans
portal ion strike .commenced, 'yeaterday
tncreaned the tension ia whioh the tna
tropolix held. Among the immediate
results was an appeal from state le
gislators to. the governor for sn extra
ordinary aession to handle the aituatiot).
' The letter Waa prtmared St a
meet
ing of the legislators.
. The accident oerured in the subway,
S rear-end collision between-ears re
sulting in the injury of thirteen persona
Two of these are seriously hiirt. v
BRITISH REPRESENTATIVE
OBJECTS TO 'BLACKLIST'
(Auoeistst Frsas by rsdsral Wlrelsss)
NKW YOEK, September Sir
Richard Crawford, tha comnie.ci'al at
tache ut the British embassv at- Wash
ington, speaking at a luncheon given
here yesterday by bankers, eommcreial
leaders and heads of industries, said
that the term "blacklist" aa applied
to the trade embargo declared by the
Allied Powers has caused a great deal
of iniHconeeption in this couatry. t
EARL OF ESSEX dIaD
(AmocUU Frsts t7 Federal Vlrslsss.)
LONDON, September 85 The Knrl
of t'ssex died today at Newmarket.
N STRIKE OVERRUN
i' V ;
.-r ta
3
.'I
1
(Associated Prsss by rsdsral Wireless.)-
LONDON, September ; 2 Thirty
thousand armed insurgents are ia con
trol of the Island of Crete, and the
former Greek Premier, M. Venlaeloa has
escaped from Athene and started for
the island, intending later to visit
Salonika, where the Greek provisional
government committee ia holding its
aessioiis.
This news reached this city yestr
day in a despatch from the Reuter's
News Agency correspondent. The in
surgents declares the report, are in fall
control of the island of Crete, ono of
the strategic points in the Aegean sea,
and the government authoritiea have
yielded to them.
Other ilespatckea from Athens de
clare tbat the Cretan guard, the per
sonal bodyguard of King Constantino,,
have revolted, and of the eighty mem
bora, but eleven have remained faith
ful to the monarch. The Cretan body
guard of the king was one of the crack
organizations of the Greek army.
BRITISH WARVESSElT
BOMBARD BELGIAN COAST
(Auoclsted Prus by rsdsral Wlrslssa.)
LONDON, Meptember 26 British mo
nitors ami. destroyers Hunday bombard
ed the German positions on the coast
of Belgium. The attnaka of the British
war vCHaels were directed at Teutoaie
poats between Heyst and Bruges and
Repters und Flushing.
CRETAN
INSURGENTS
ISLAND
NEMWG COMBLES
Generals Haig and FochNarroiv Gap
That Serves To Keep Alive German
Garrison Defending Fortress, Cap
turing Prisoners, Munitions, Ran
court Les Boeufs and Morval Lines
SLAVS
pARIS, September J(-(ombIes is doomed to surrender or ex
X titu-tioii. This is the fcist of the reports from the London and
French war'ofl'ices last niglit, for the Allies have tightened their
lines about the p'ace. and uow the gap that separates the French
and British troops operating north and south of the citadel, is less
than one mile wide.
Another day's advance such as the Allies made in that region
yesterday will dose that gap and leave the German garrison hope
lessfyr surrounded and facing starvation or immediate surrender.
The Wtic of General Ilaig and General Foch in their concerted"
Utack .upon Cnmbles are working splendidly. They have been carry
ing out a great scissors movement, nipping the town between their
two advancing columns in such a way as to avoid the deadly frontal
attacks which proved so costly to the Teutons under the German
Crowri Prince at Virdun and to the Allies themselves in Champagne
and .Keuve ptappelle. ' , . i
Allies Avoid frontal Attacks ; f i -
The; policy" has been y thrust forward to the south and north
of the fortress. 'into whith the Germans have turned the simple'
little country tovvn that Obmbles was before the war. In following
uus-iinc(uie rrencsj yesteraay took the town of Rancour., which
ues to me soutneaRt',ot Combles abput two miles, whjle the British' ;
struck At the.GermAAlines teXjtonll of the citadel indapturedy 'i'
tllaiManMMtMn4t 4orVal fand ' J,esf ocufs,V!beside taking a' V: f
'".vniMPcxf-tretKhcj
tonfeclwceu Comblesauid their POsiiiflua north of the little townl f. '
antnptUclM where they have .fceetf pushing toward Bapaume for
many tays. ... f; r C , -
In addition o 'Kajicourt Jhe French under the command of Gen
eral Foch' struck hard at th Teutonic lines north and west ot Fregi
tjourt. This blow was delivered with the intent of still further clos-'
ng' the gap that parts thejBritish and French troops wlio Are seek
rg to
surrfiiind Combles' In part the attack was successful, for'
the French took a numbef of German trenches, forcing the Teutons
to evacuate otlurs, and nkrrowing the neck of the retort of which
Comblcs is the bulb.' 'V -;
. ' Tlie French are Wnf In faster than the British fof; they are,
pot finding the sahie amount of resistance, and the terrain over
which they are operating to the south of the town, is. easier to negol
tiate than that through which their British allies have' to move in'
the north. Nevertheless the British are forging' ahead fralpidly..
Tlie gained more than : a -mile in actual depth by their attacks of
ye'ster.lay, in spite of the fact that the ground is still heavy front
the recent rains and storms. i
British Line Shows Marked Advance, ' ,
The British Jine now runs from the Thiepval salient" to, the north
east of Courcellette where it begins to bend rather sharply to the
north along the Bapaume road. Here they have control of the bla-
teau which commands that entire stretch of country reaching away
to Bapaume. Leaving the Bapaume road the trench line stretches'
now to a point north and east of Martinpuich, where there is a flar
to the northeast in the direction of Faucourt l'Xbbaye and Gueude-
ourt. Thence it drops slightly to the new positions east and north
of Le iioeufs, where it swings almost due south to Morval. Hcre
t turns back forming the outline of the Combles retort and turves
about that place until it meets the French lines. The Ppilus hold '
positions w hich starting where the British soldiers leave off, swings -in
between Combles and Prietf Farm almost due nortH to the posi
tion taken in yesterday's fighting to the west of Freglcourt, where '
it slopes southeast by the foot of Hill 148, crossing the feronne
Bapaume Bethune road and sol south to Bouchavesnes, where Gen
eral Foch is steadily nibbling his way eastward. ' ''
Hevy Fighting Verdun Front '
The Somme front did not see the only heavy fighting ptt the
'rench fronts yesterday, fdr the afternoon official communique'
jtated that the Germans had made an attack in force near Vaux and
Le Chapitrc, northeast of Verdun, but had been driven back with'
Revere losses.
The reports of the fighting in the
most contradictory. The Allied
In many of the fighting fronts, particularly in the Dobrudia district!.
while the Teutonic report told
Marshal von Mackensert," as well as the repulse of British and Ser
vant roopB in the Macedonian fighting. '
Berlin also declared that the Russians had been repulsed in the
fighting in Volhynian and Galician fields, and had been driven back
by Austro-i.erman attacks iti the Carpathians. Petrograd Usued no
statement regarding the operating i" the cast, but declares that the
Slavs operating under General Sarrail in Macedonia, successfully atr
tacked tlie Bulgar-German forces west of Fiorina, and captured
additional strategic positions. 1
The French in Macedonia penetrated the village of Petorak, and
the British reported additional gains north of Lake Takinos.
In the Transylvanian region both sides claimed victory for them
elves and defeat for their enemies. The Rumanians have resumed
the offensive in that region however, for Berlin declared that "Ru
manian attacks have been repulsed."
SUFFER LOSS
. t
east continued vesterdaV to be
commanders reported minor eains
of "continued successes by Field
4
-;?'.-';
.' ''." ''
