1
SsnvL
THE WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair to-day and to-morrow; warmer,
to-morrow; moderate west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 63: lowest; 57.
Detailed weather, mall anil marine report op pax .
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
ONE CENT
In (trcattr Now York. I I
Jersey 'Cllj and Newark. I TWO t'KNTft. I
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 26.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1916. Corvrtpht,lili,bv the Suix PrlnHng ami I'uWshiup Atsoctatton.
STRIKE LEADER
8
hints mm
AGREE TO QUIT
But Bcftwal of Agent of
Building Trades to Vote
Injures Cause.
GO AFTER SLACKERS
AT ELEVENTH HOUR
.
Big Union Labor conven
tion Scheduled to Be Held
in Beethoven Hall,
LEGISLATORS URGE
A SPECIAL SESSION
Gov. Whitman to See N. Y.
City Solons To-day on
Industrial Crisis.
There was nothing more definite
yesterday from the leaden of or
rinlsed labor than on previous days as
to whether the order of the labor con
fcence of Greater New York for a
luspenslon of work In nil trades begin.
nlng to-morrow would be obeyed or
not.
Claim were made that 260,009
unionist, or 40 per cent, of organized
labor In the Ave boroughs, had voted
favorably on mo oruer, dui nugn
Krone, Am? rlcan Federation of Labor
organizer and chairman of the labor
conference, declined to give the name
of any union, not already mentioned,
thai had sent him word of its decision
lu Join In tho stoppage of work.
A meeting of 200 delegate represent-t-.g
the 125,000 unlonlied worker of the
L'nlted Hebrew Trades voted last night
i call a general strike cffectNe la-morns'.
William II. Pltigerald, general
erfxnlzcr nf the Amalgamated Associa
tion, attended the "letting, which was
ttlil at IT; East Broadway, and was
nthujliitlcauy received.
Strike Order to Be Obeyed.
The United Hebrew Trades lncludos
frlfp in m ltwliiKtri.ni nn,. In. IeMil
tn aald after the vote last nltht Uiat
th rail for a general strike would be
ohejed without question by the great
T.iss of members. U was said many
of tlm locals already had voted In in
ur of a strike and that the remainder
otsM vote beforo to-morrow.
The chances of a successful tleup of
New York's Industries were greatly
dr,!nlil:ed by the refusal of the busl
rtsi agents of the Building Trades
Councils '. Manhattan and The Bronx
t'j vote for a sympathetic strike of the
tt'irk.ren allied with their organisation.
They put oft final action until Thurs.
li), tut the sentiment was manifestly
j,M-i:it a cencral walkout.
The building trades have the largest
I " memberships In the city, not
tv haling the Central Federated Union.
l'ollowlmr the action of the business
;nt last night locals of the car
.tiilers. bricklayers, plasterers, tilers'
Mlr.", metal workers and others either
I'fuHd to act on the motion to strike
: ileferred action until n later date.
The reverse to the car men Is the
note mere because they had depended
m the building trades to walk ouprac-
euiy to a man.
Final Labor llally Te-siorrtn
l.t view of the cautious and yet
wiralHtln statement Issued by Mr,
Irjwie last night In which he announced
' at tn-inorrow morning, the time for
gen'ril walkout, there will be
ui.vention In Beethoven Hall of the
'liicvntatlvcs of every local and every
iiriti 'h uf oiitiinlzcd labor In New lnrk
in! vicinity. It seems that many labor
gantzaitonH am ready to go on strike
r all other un cms io hi.
In other word, so far as can be gath
ml by Investigation and study of the
i'wIoh. tho general view of organised
jlior 1 "veil, we ought to strike.
WM strlk If everybody else does. If
eriindy strikes we're sura of victory.
'I Vie may he a steady, growing, lr
le.i.'IMe niiivemi'iit.on the part of the
7...- I unions tn suspend work. If there
U is bring developed with the utmost
wrecy On tho other hand It is certain
!'m what has been learned by talks
slth leaders of certain unions that they
nil not onimtt their men to a walk
.' unles other union leaders join In.
Tun Hlit for Inlonlsts to Grasp,
T the members of the labor con
.t Hi"' ilo r.ot expect a unanimous move
n !h part of oiganlsed laoor waa in
4, " 1 etterday by both Mr. Frayne.
a - retury l;rnet Honm or ine uen
ir.t KwUrated L'nlon. his codtrector o
' Ntneril sirlke headquarters. Mr,
whin Saul earlier In the day;
T I such a hl proposition that
' embody does not grasp It. Not all the
jv vi .i so out on wednesaay morn
'if. l"it ihe movement will grow and
'w mi' all nf the affiliated men shall
IVc I ,J,r,,. to l "
M I- iMe r. tit! last night: "From
trm rt indications large body of
"ur iv I, kii un strike on Wednes
I'av in, I inl..pu ..'111 tn nnirni.iil.(1
'(''in d.n t . day until the tleup will bo
'i' leiv f impli'te."
M Kr ,i)ini nlni said hat only 40 per
i f i ! mule unionists which were
iTi",tii. i m tiu labor conference had
"-a h.inl from up to tho time of the
""tine :ii ; o'clock yesterday, ond that
"'"'i l" mi. wern in favor.". He did
lot rpai fy ah (0 whether tho favorable
f"te rud any rnudltlons attached, but
re wi. re rumors along the waterfront
' " Ha 2k,ooo longshoremen would not
iult r,rlt to-morrow In a body.
I'nlon Kimims Snuiht Faeta.
It alu. k true that many organizations
I" presented at the meetings of
' ''oiiiliiintal labor conference
1 or the imiimne, of getting In-
, io what th other unions
' Tlielr leprusentatlves ramo
li
i
" whlr-li they could report to
' uillitued un Fourth I'agt.
HOUR LAW STEP TO
CIVIL WAR HUGHES
Might as Well Wind Up Gov
ernment and Have Dic
tator, He Says.
TALK8 TO 25,000 OHIOANS
Candidate, in Strongest Speech,
Replies to Wilson's Charges
to N. J. Merchants.
Dattok, Ohio, Sept SJ.-charles H,
Hughes, addressing an audience In
Memorial Halt to-night, replied In detail
to President Wilson's defence of the
Adamson fill made last Saturday at
Snadow Lawn before the New Jersey
business men.
With tremendous emphasis he declared
that there has been too much legislation
Just to get the votes of one net of men
or snother, that the Adamson law and
the procedure leading to It was the first
step toward civil war, and that If things
are to be done that way In this country
you might as well wind up the republic
and appoint a dictator, selecting one
with the greatest force to exert to com
pel obedience to his demands.
He scouted the President's defence
that the principle Involved In the Adam
son bill the principle of the eight hour
day was not arbitrable, saying tnat
sucn siaiemcus were ma'-ie i' niw'.-mi
and contuse American thought and weie
absolutely untrue, Inasmu-h us the prin
clnle of the elsht hour day was nit In
volved In tho Adamson bill at nil. but
simply a demand for more pay.
More than 1,000 persons In the (treat
hall cheered Mr. Hughes's excoriation
of the law and of President Wila.m's
surrender to the brotherhoods. Mr,
Hughes said:
"I have long stood for oroner definite
ness In legislation. I think It Is an Ideal
which we should endenvar to obtain.
There has been too mue'i and there has
been a great deal of It In this Adminis
tration of compromise phrases In the
statutes apparently Intended to mean
one thing to one set of men tn get their
otes and another thing to nnothor net
of men to allay their fears. (Applause.)
do not believe In that sort or thing In
the way of statute making.
Betray Their Weakness.
"Our friends on the other side oelray
the weakness of their position Ty the
failure to call things by their right
names.
"The bill to which I refer la spoken
of as the eight hour bill. It does not
deserve the name. It does not provide
an eight hour workday; It does not
limit the hours of labor; It leaves to
railroad companies to employ men for
Just as long a time as they were em
ployed before.
"what do wo mean by an elsht hour
dayT It Involves the DrinclDle of af
fording opportunity for recreation, for
refreshment and for education, by lim
ning ine nours or actual work, except
,n ease or emergency.
"Tne very theory of an eight hour
workday bill is a limitation of the hours
or employment upon the consideration
tnat the limitation will benefit all ron
cerned. It Is aald that the prlnclule
was not arbitrable. It Is a very ex
traordinary statement. '
It Is a very extraordinary statement.
for eighteen years ago, I believe. In the
passage of the act to promote concilia
tion and arbitration with reject tn dis
putes between Interstate commerce em
ployees and carrier there was provision
made for arbitration with lespert to
hourx of labor, conditions of employment
as wen as or wages. And in a b II.
which I believe was signed during this
Administration, In July, 1913, the same
provision In substantially the same
language Was reenacled In the law pro
viding ror atttltratlnn with respect to
wages, conditions of employment and
hours of labor. .
Rlstht Hoar liny .Not Taken l..
"Of course In a naitlcubir case where
conditions exist w tilth should provide
for a certain number of hours of labor
Ih a question requiring the moat earnest
consideration. But no one in this con
troversy to which I am now referring
has any Idea of establishing un eight
hour workday. The principle nf the eight
hour workday Is not In any way in
volved.
"1 have stood from h time f en
tered upon my public, career for reason
able hours of service, and no one more
than I desires to see every opportunity
tn every working man to escape an un
due severity of strain and for the op
portunity which American manhood
should have. Hut I protest against any
endeavor to confuse the thought of
America by talking about nn eight hour
workday when nothing of tho sort haa
been enacted, nothing of the sort haa
been proposed, and the only thing that
waa proposed or enacted was. a change
In tho schedule of wages. (Applause.)
Men may work Just an long as before.
When leguilauon Is hastily enacted
some unpleasant difficulties occur. When
it is said that eight hours shall be the
standard, what become of the man who
doesn't work eight hoursT How Is he
left? How does ho stand under the
agreements which formerly existed with
respect to working less than eight hours,
If he made his run within that time?
"Of course the matter of wages In the
case of our carriers is of the most im
portant consideration. It was desired
that men should b well and properly
paid, but when you charge to the ex
penses of carriers an additional burden
of hundreds of millions of dollars you
must consider what you .are doing, for
these charges must be met by rates.
Harden on Palillc.
"It was proposed In this connection
to give a sort of guaranty for an In
crease of rates. That means a burden
upon the public; that means a burden
upon Industry, upon agriculture, That
maans that every ono has sot to calcu
late with respect to enlarged charges;
who comes under the rates that may bo
Increased.
"Now, that Is not a matter to he en
tered upon without nuttablo Inquiry,
While the few might think they would
he benetltcd by a particular act, how
would great hosts of worklnijmcn, the
men In the very Industries who might
be Involved by the operation of this act,
feel about It? Fellow citizens, I am not
dealing with the merits nf the Increase
of wages; that Is a matter that ought
to be examined and determined accord
ing to the facts. What I say Ih that In
an Intricate matter of that sort In fact,
lu any trailer which requires an exam
ination of the facts no one should pro
pose that any Legislature should pass,
a law fixing a rate of wages without
Cosllnucil on Fourth Pagt.
After the Subwav Collision at the 207th St.
nENEKAL view of the wrecked trains on the structure just north of i
VJT . . ... ... . j. mi... u I
uycKmnn Rtreet, wnere me lunnei enu. ana puuiugmim wrani, .
. . .. . 1 . ....A i i j i t- i . I
now xne neavy steei cars were, snauerea ana crusnoa uy mu impoti-, i
aiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
mKmmmk H mm m I Mm
mjCM tl?M'MttWfflm. hkv4i2
llbiMliililssssssssss .?HH
VHIibssssssssssssssssssssssssssssV ssSFsfcBI
lBBBSiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB 'SBBBBBBbW2 MBM
BfSfilA V'K - 'ssssUgaHl
Photo Copyright by Central News
EL PASO CAMP NAMED
FOR SLAIN ARMY HERO
Gen. Bell Honors Memory of
Sergeant Owen Bierne,
Kilrfft-on Duty.
EL I'aho, Tx Bcpt. 25. A unique
compliment waa paid to the memory of
on enlisted man to-day, when, by order
of Drlg.-5en. Hell, the camp occupied
here by troops of the Tenth Provisions!
Division was named "Camp Owen
Blcrno" after a sergeant of that name
belonging to the Twenty-third Infantry
who waa killed In a saloon laat Thursday
In performance of his duty with the pro
vost vuard. W. II. Sands, a Texas
Hanger, Is In Jail charged with the mur
der. tJergt. nierne' had completed neatly
thirty years In tho army. He eerved In
the Cuban and Philippine campaigns and
the Boxer uprising wun uisuncuon.
After stating that tho army "feels
deeply the outrage of the dastardly deed
which did him to death" Qen. Hell com
mented : ,
"Ilotli durinc his life and death this
splendid soldier exemplified the best tra
ditions of the army. It waa not for him
to question why nor to reason why. He
slmplv obeyed orders nnd died. No
loftier virtue than this can be attained
by any man." ,
Camp Owen Plerne, In honor of the
enlisted man who 1ld while extricating
some soldiers from a saloon brawl, con
tains some 20,000 men. Heretofore array
camps have generally been named after
Presidents and generals.
POLICE FIGHT SUBWAY FIRE.
Oil Soaked Waste Near Times
Simnre station Pound Abtaar.
Clouds nf smoko drifting down the sub
way line to the southbound platform at
Times Square shortly after last midnight
attracted the attention of Patrolman
Moorhouse, who was on duty at the
station.
Seizing a fire extinguisher and calling
Patrolman mil, on the other platform, to
come with him, Moorhouse ran up the
line n short distance and found oil soaked
rubbish on tho ttouthbound express tracks
blazing. When the firemen arrived they
found the policemen still dodging ex
press trains and lighting the blase, which
was attacking the ties.
HALF OF U. S. PRESS DOOMED.
Unless Print Paper Famine la Re
lleved, Nays California Expert.
Ixs Anoeles, Cal Sept. 2S. "Unless
the print paper situation Is relieved be
fore long half the country papers In the
United States will have to suspend pub
llcatlon, temporarily at least," Bruce
Bllven, professor of Journalism at the
University of Southern California, told
the members of tho Southern California
Kdltnrlal Association Jn convention to
day.
He proposed cooperative action to cor
rect the evils responsible for this con
dition.
Hiottx ClTT, In,, Sept. 25. The Sioux
Cltv Joiirnul and Sioux City Trthmie to
day advanced the price from one cent to
two cents. Tho rlo. It Is announced, Is
due to Increased cost of paper.
WIDOWS AGAIN MUST WAIT.
Pleasure Association nenttves Its
Application for Incorporation.
The Widowers and Widows Pleasure
Association, which was denied Incorpora
lion a few weeks ago, mado application
for tho second time yesterday for per
mission to add "New York No. 1, Inc.,1
to Its title.
Justice Delehanty originally declined
to approve the plea on the ground that
the title appeared frivolous. He asked
an elucidation of the purposes of Ihe or
ganization. This was given yesterday
The purpose, It was explained, was to
bring together persons of Ihe opposite
sexes who had lost their spouses. Deci
sion was reserved,
aervlee.
SUBWAY TRAIN RAMS
ANOTHER; 13 HURT
Motorman Leap When He
Sees Danger Wreckage
Afire Adda to Panic.
A southbound Van Cortlandt Park
ubway train, running at high peed and
abandoned, It Is said, by its motorman,
Albert Martin, when he saw the danger,
crsahed Into a "dead" train of three
empty cars at the 207th street station
yesterday afternoon. Injuring thirteen
persons severely and causing many
others alight injuries from shock.
At tho Impact the first car cf Ihe rear
train ploughed directly up on top of the
last car of the stationary train. Fire
started tn the understructtsre of the
smashed ears and passengers were In a
panic. The force was so great It
was regarded as remarkable that more
persona were not seriously hurt.
The passengers In the first car of the
second train clamored and shrieked to
be liberated as they saw the smoke arts
Ing from the wreckage and heard the
approach of tha fire apparatus.
Motorman Leaps (a Safety.
Martin, the motorman, Is 32 years old.
11 was eald at the Interborough offices
last night that he had been In the ser
vice of the company since 1S05 and had
an excellent record. His address was
given as 218 Weat ISSth street, but
he gave his address to the police as :t
West 123d street.
Patrolman John Hyland of the w hit
Plains station, on strike duty at the
107th street station, said he saw the
train aproachlng at considerable speed
and as It neared the station where the
lead" in n stood he asserts ne saw
Martin open the door of the cab and
leap to the tracks, which are elevated
at this point. The train continued wun
undiminished speeo,
Hyland said Martin men ran aiooa
the northbound tracks and climbed to
the northbound station piauorm. urrs
he waa detained until questioned uy
actlng Police Captain cooper ana De
fectives Boyle and Scott. He later was
released. '
Martin assorted that he had applied
the air and emergency brakes before
Jumping, but that rain wns falling M
the tlm and the wheels slid along tho
ir.ev. H exnlalned his failure earlier
to apply the brakes oy saying ine mner
train appeared to be pulling away from
the station.
Policeman Serlanaly Hart.
The blase In the train was extinguished
and the passengers were carried io
safety. The reserves from the West
i77iii .trt notice station were nurricu
to the accident and kept back the crowds
v. well as assisted the injured persons
to ambulancos from wasmngion iieignw
and Fordham hospitals.
The most seriously nun was inirui-
man Howard Holder. 10 years old, of tho
Klngsbrldge police station, who waa do
Ing strlko duty on Martin's train, Ho
suffered possible Internal Injuries an well
an aevere lacerations of the face and
body. Tho other Injuriea were mostly
from flvins glasH and shock.
The point at which the accident oc
curred I" where the Dyckman street
trains are made up beforo leaving on
their runs, and It Is supposed that the
three empty cars were to be coupled onto
the next train into tne station, une nc
count of the accident eald that a half
eaten sandwich and a piece of pie were
found In Martin's compartment after the
accident. Indicating the possibility that
he had been eating while operating the
train.
Dr. Brldlman (Joes to CoprnhaKen.
Hikmn fhy wireless), Sept. 25. Dr.
Beldlman, who was Ilumanlan Minister
to Germany until his country entered the
war, has gone to Copenhagen with his
staff to take up residence there.
Station of the Broadway Line Yesterday.
the forward car of one train mounting the rear of the string of ' stand-
.an In eh f nv-irrrolnd U nne of tho fire trucks CflllCU to DUt OUt a
. . ,m n i
l.lnvn wlttnl. a.nrl.,1 In ttiA u-reeknirn.
.....v..
D. 8. WILL CONVOY
TWO GERMAN SHIPS
Interned Craketa Prinee Eitel
and Wilhelm to Pass
Allied Warship.
NonroLK, Va Sept 25. Klylns tho
German flag and convoyed by threu
American battleships, the Interned Ger
man cruisers Prince Kltel Fried rich and
Kronprlnz Wilhelm will pats In fuil
view of allied wnrslilpa off the Vlrgluli
Capes next week when they leave this
port for Philadelphia,
The fifth division of the Atlantic fleet,
composed of the Michigan, South Car
olina, Minnesota and Vermont, luui bcn
ordered to convoy the German ships to
Philadelphia. The Michigan will not bo
able to go with the expedition, havlir,'
already arrived I at Phi ade phla to bo
repaid following Ins explSsion of a,
twelve Inch shell which destroyed one!
of her guns,
The German ships are -ready to leave,
but as the American battleships are en
gaged In target practice off the Capes j
they are obliged to wait until this Is
completed, which will be not Ulcr tnan
Sunday.
ROLLER SKATER A DETECTIVE.
Brooklyn Boy Causes Arrest at a
l-'leelnsr Matarlat.
The agility of Clifford Butts, 12 years,
of No. S50 Greene avenue, Brooklyn,
who followed a fleeing automobile two
miles on roller skates, resulted In the
nrrckt last night of ilatph 1). Waldt of
No. 71 llnnsou place. Waldt will be ar
raigned to-day In the Dates avenue police
court on tho charge of running over
Herbert Mott, 8 years, of No. 402 Madi
son street.
The accident occurred In front of
public school No. tl at Putnam and
Throop avenue, on primary day. Sev
eral children were playing in the street
when Waldt, the police ray, knocked
down and ran over the Mott boy. A
dozen boys. Including Butts, chased the.
fleeing automobile. Butts had more
staying power than the other, follow
ing tho car until he made a note of
the number, "N. Y. :,2:2." which he
later turned over to the police,
2,600 ACRES OF ONIONS BURN.
State Onard nigs Treaefcea'to Stop
Spread of Flames,
CoLPMSfs, Ohio, Sept. 25, Two
square mllesi of the Ohio onion marshee,
said to he the largest In the world, are
a glowing ember of burning peat to
nlBht, while the entire population of
McGuffy and the countryside Is working
under military organization of Lieut.
Col. Hugh Itunkle, sent by the Adjutant
General of the Ohio National Guard, to
confine the fire which swept the onion
beds to-day,
The green crop waa gathered In art
vanco of the flames by organized bri
gades of car'men. The fire flghtets am
working In dense smoke, and relief sta
tions have been established at tho edge
of the marshes to recuperate the men
as they become affected, Water Is un
obtainable nn.d the efforts of the growets
are confined to trench digging. The lo.n
cannot yet be estimated, but will ho
large.
5TH AVE. FIRE DRAWS CROWD.
Only Gasolene Torch Kxplnslon, but
II Ties t'p TraMr,
A gasolene torch exploding at A
o'clock yesterday evening In the cellar of
the building being erected at the south
east corner nf Fifth avenue and Forty
second street caused considerable atten
tion from the huge crowds of parsersby,
A sire alarm brought apparatus which
added to tho confusion. The fire waa
slight, but tho Interest occasioned bylt
was great. It wns long beforo traffic
at the corner regained normality.
TtRWKY'M VVHK WINES AT MKAIX
mesa plur. twtter elsestlca aaS kralta. IM
full a H Ssseae St., N. T, rWa mi Cert,
adv.
T V
nftpr the ncciuent.
ZEPPELIN ATTACK ON
.ENGLAND IS RENEWED
., , , . in ti
second Invasion in H Hours
Reported, With ''Some Cas
ualties and Piinin-P."
I.onpon, Sept. 2S (Tuesday). Zeppe
lins have again Invaded tTnghind, forty
tight hours after the raid of Saturday
night In which two Zeppelins were
brought down. The War I'lllce an
nounces ih.it tho raiders have not
reached I.ondjn, but have diopped bontb'i
on the coast. A little afttr midnight tho
War Office tniulo the followir an
nouncement
v.,.,r.i i.t.ii ......i.i.. ,.,ii.i,. i.
visited the northcaMein and southern
counties during last night. Homus were
dropped In the northern counties ami
Home casualty nnd damage , r,.
,,.
portid. .
"Full leports have not el been re- . Migsention the unacceptable members to take Morval and I.esboeufs. They
, . ., '0 the Cabinet know they are unaccrp- 1 jumped fiom their tienclies nnd charged
able without being told, If the Greek ' fot wind all along the sK mile front from
It Is reported heie that a Zeppelin has (?iV(,rnm(,I)t u ancoro ,t wln , , Martlnpuleh to Combles, and every-
been picked up in the North Sen, Ir.dl-1 own hou'e. Mvlme the Gorman had to give way.
eating that of the twelve new giant Mr. Agathantfelos, Greek Metropoll-1 Trenchc- all along thai flout to a depth
nlrcraft that raided London Saturday J ta,', f Drama, one of the Greek 'owns of ovi.r a inibi which this morning wer
night, not two but three wete lost, The , M'f J0(l j,.. the Hulgal l.'ins, was aneled i German trenches to. night ale held by
British and Germnn official announce 0 ',, (.to.xnit-litp "ho when It arrlvml , the MiltMi. Thus tlulr linn from Cour
ments say that two Zeppelins were lo.i. jsilotilca (mm the Plr.eus bv oidr celette to .M.u tliiplllch l straightened
Danish fishermen report having seen ' , ,V' , .,,.. enmmitiee. 'neennl. 1 and for neatly live miles British
four Zeppelins estordny tr.nelllny lu a
.uutncaaicny mrcc::c: . js a uc-i a;cn
from Copenhagen to tho LxihauKi- 'lob-
graph Company One of tho nlijhlps
was damaged and wns escorted by tor-
peuo in ai uesirojrre. . .
in Saturday night n .eppi-lln laid
thirty person weie killed and 110
wounded, about half of thu victims be -
Ins women mid children. .No military
damage was reported
Tho officla
l official press hurc.ui aim
the Get man usM'itlou that
that
'''V1.'1;
of military Importance were set on lire
by bombs from the airships l.s false and
that the German official account of the
raid was "full of the usual misstate
ments." LOSS OF ZEPS ADMITTED.
tirrmnus l)en Air llnldrr Caused
Plrrs nt listen.
Besmn, by wireless Io Sayvllle, Sept.
25, An official stiitciftrnt issued to-day
regarding the alt raid on Knglaud Sat
urday night leads,.
"On the night of September 2, and 24
TIwXm U,ZX:t
, I y I i ,p ill ice the I . b and
muiiar) iiupoi iinic e on un nun o, i ami
In the middle counties, of llnitlanil, among
which were Nottingham and ,-h. Hleld.
Success everywhere was visible from the
cnntlagratlonf, which could be scon for
n long while.
'The airships when approaching Eng
land and before crossing the Lnallsh
coast were shelled by patrol boats, and
during the attack by defensive batteries,
which uted incendiary pioJectlle. Tho
alrfhlps silenced some batteries by well
directed Volleys. Two 'airships fell. vie.
tlms to the ilefeiu-lic llio around Lon
don. All the others returned undam
aged." .No tires weie. caused at Lssen by the
hostiln n lr raid )estcrda), anil most of
the bombs dropped Indicted no damage,
nccordlng to an official reprnt,
Itefcrence to the aerial attack on
Ksseu Is made also In the legular com
munication from the War Office, which
says
"One child fell victim to un enemy
arroplnne, nllack yesterday afternoon in
the region of Ksseii. Others were
wounded. Tho material damago was
unimportant."
Mrs. Gerard In .Motor Crush,
llr.riUN (by wireless I, Sept, 2R. Mri.
James W. Gerard, wife of the American
Ambasador, suffued a nervous shock o.
day when automobile came into collision
with a taxleab. She wan able to return
to her home, however, without requiring
the service of a physician, Tho Genirds
will leave to-morrow for Copenhagen,
where Mrs, Gerard will take steamer for
New York September 2R.
VENIZELOS TO LEAD ALLIES TAKE 3
GREEK REVOLUTION TOWNS; COT OFF.
kc:'a;',:;: ;foe'S supplies
Secret Departure.
I'I'HISIXtf SPJIEAUS FASTI
Insui'ftciits Ajfninst Kins: Cn-
staiitlnc Now in Coiniilctc '
Control of Crete.
! '
i I.oxi'o.N, Pepl, 26. Tndiiatlons are
that ex-l'reniler Venlzelos of Oreeee is
i nbout to place himself at the head of Ihe ,
revolution agaln.t King Constanllne. The
revolt Is spicadlng throughout (Ireece. i
;'rete is under revolutionary commit-'
! Ven.xe.os ato.e away from Atheiw . 1
r. o'clock this morning. The merchant
J ship Hesperia picked Him up from n'
boat in the open sea. It Is lu.lltvad he.
I feared arrest or assassination If hi
purpose were known to the Roy.ilNt i
party. It Is roported that he will go to
t'rete HrM, then to Kjlotilca. A despa'.c'i
to the Afor says he Is going dir. et to
Salonlc.i. Admiral ( ondourlotli, mm-
manillng tin- (lieek navy, and other of
llcers. are suld to have gone with iilm. i
Athens ilespntcliei say Vetilfilos will
, Issue a manifesto to the flicek people!
from Oanea, Crete, vhere ho probably
I will dliect the formation of a sepaiatlst
1 (iovernnient.
It-shles Admiral Con.loutlotls, the
despatches add, those iicciitipanylns
, VnUetos Include all the membel i of his ;
foune- Cabinet with the exception of
f .M. liaktavln, Minister or Justice.
,
May tovlte Kls.sc Io AM.
Tile piOflamitioti of Wnl7.elo, t Is
said, will Invite King Consu.ntlne to put
hlineir a; the head of a national de fence
movement.
Vetilielos, tho stiong man of tlreeie
and len.Ur of the pro-Ally party, w,,s
asked a week ago about u report that Iip
Intended to go to Salmilca and place
himself nr the head of tho revolutionary
patty. He did not deny the report, hut
said' "I must wait a brief time.' In
, i 1iii1.lt,, nn..et. t Ok.ii. V,,iil.-lnu wnl.l
' If King Constaiitine would not listen to i liS''.s "f Mort al nnd Lcsbccufs, about
1 the voice of the people and Join tho Al- two miles port lienst of Combles. Mor
i lies the people "musU consider whut .. ,. .. , ..,.,,.,
1 measures should be taken." , vul l tMe eights north of Combles.
Practically alt of Greek Macedonia I and from It British guns can prevent
tier sovernea front aicnica uy the
N-ntlonnl riefenen Cnml.iltten. whlel. nr.
ganged the revolution nnd has been
Joined by bodies nf troops and gen
durmes. This committee Is working hand
'in hand with Gen. Sarrall. commanding
o,,, alite,i army, n is believed ventze-
Io will assume leadership of this coin-
mlttee.
Thirty thousand armed Insurgents are
In complete control of the Island of
Crete, according to a Heuter desptlch
from Athens. Sixty-nine of the eighty
members of Kins Constantlne s famous
Cietnn Guard have vowed to follow
Veiilsel..- to Snlonlca to Jo n the revolti-
Hon, The detail Guard has been ills-
banded.
The Cretan insurgents have enteied
Cai.ea and taken possession of the Gov -
ar Tnoy' iS
and other coat towns.
lllshnp Held as Spy.
A io;acu Alliens ues pairn oi jcur-
t'7n h' V, u . ren-
1 ieyenttlve of the Kntrnto what changes
In the Kalocro,,oulos Mlnl-try would
mollify the Kn.ente. and ei.aMe ne.o. a-
tions concerning Greece s entr Into lie
. I ,. witi, t.s unofficial
jn , M jj.ilonli-i' do-vitch The bishop
; , constantly ir tucked foe Knlenl- lu
Lpeeches and writings and Is accused of
t'. s v,
Am,'lhei-' 'nuluai Ian imposition, till"
' tim,. affeciln.' Vmerlcnii Intere-ts, is te-
.,tf,j from Athene. The Hulgarlahh are
i,,irir ii,.ieeo niuc.l ot
1 f i:,,iort,o(iii worth
; ,mmll ,y .m,. lean companies, from
in,,,.,.... -.,relioiies nt the Greek polt of
i.... ,!,. i!r.ilt llrm, tiers. A lllel lCHll
i Minister to Greeio. has asked the But-
C.iilau Government to permit the Amer-
lean stock to be taken oui oi me iun
and sent to Athens.
FOOD DICTATOR FOR AlISTHIA.
I the edge of the shattered wood of St.
More Thsn lere l.eal.lntlon Fonnil 1 1'leiro Vaasl. They stormed a hill north-
east of tlin village of lloucluiv esnes and
to lie Necessary. reached a point northeast of lllll 1.10.
Vl"NN Ma London, Sept, 25, In ! which rNes beside the road fiom noucha
consequence of the discovery that some- , vesne. south to Allallies. Thin the.
thing miiro than mere legislation Is nee-J FteiRh won two positions that .llnch
esiry to regulate Austria's food supply their hold on the main IViouuc.llap.iume
It Is planned to chunge the existing or- highway at ISotichavesiies.
gaulzatloii Into it genuine food dictator. , Near Peionne, aUo. the French took
jtienches near the Canal du .Void, Horn
i e f ln , b u
" "cn h" or enfUclr body to curry
I "' - nt form'"r-
. ..,...
1 FOOD REVOLT IN LUXEMBURG,
Violent Parliament l)lrnslon He-
In all this fierce richtlng imdei hrn'-y
purled toy Overseas News Agency.
IIeiiun by wlieless to Sayvllle), Sept, of It hand to hand, the losses of the allied
2T, According to reports from Luxetn- j troops ore said tn have been cimvima-
burg, the question concerning the supply tlely small, Heavy losses weie inflicted
of food caused a violent discussion in the on the Gel mans, It is announced oiticial!'
Luxemburg tParllament, suyii an item and the Fietuli irpoit that thus far il ev
giver out to-day by the Overseas News.h'ive counted ton unwounded pri.otiei ,
Acency,
Director Generil Welter, It is added,
said tho difficulties over the food supply
were due In the tefiisal of Great Britain
to penult tin' Importation of victuals,
even though their distribution would be
under control of agents of the Fulled
Slates.
Bread Famine In Vienna.
ZlT.loil, Sept, 25. Press desp itches
fi urn Vienna say Ihero has been a bread
famine there for several dn)H, owIiir to
transportation difficulties. An official de
cree has been published forbidding hotels
and restaurants of Vienna and lower
Austria to supply bread to guests. It ill
way service hai been greatly disturbed
since Humanla entered the war.
Goethala Starts (or Arm Vnrk,
I'VNAMA. Sept, 2,1, Major-Gen. George
W, Goelhuls, Governor of tile I'aninm
Canal Zone, sailed from Colon for New
York to-day, It l not believed here
that Oen. Gortbnls will return tn tho
Isthmus. sf
i i it
Fifteen Miles.
COM HLKN FOKTKESS
NOW SURKOrNDED
,
' I ..,c nV If ni'Vill T Pa
',,,,,ei, 01 ,AS"
I(iiiiiJ' KiillCOHl'i 1111(1 AllCA
UUl mi' ' J'lllw
f TlVIICllfS CnptllWd. .
. i Vl'AlllPI? (V
J..lllli -M JlJllili UT
DIMtlVI.MfU IMi'DnlfTm
1 I.W.MjJI UIjLKJUIVjU
j;(tllS ill All (!01ltiilUC
Frt'iieli Fiffht Way Into
Pennine Suburbs.
, ,
I , .. , . , .
I-osuoN. Sept. 25.-A great forward
Kweep of UriUali nnil French troops
Uenan a, ,loon tn.,,liy on xht. Somms. ,
J. . ...
j front, nnd ended In victory all along a
I fifteen mile front. Three villages ami
(ny nC1 of t,,,nclles w,.r0 occupied
... .,, ,,, , ,.,,i, rr i.,,.
. 1,1 armlt!'' To-night the
fortrtsH of Coinblcs la hs good ns
'taken, lla narrlson of lltrmana vlr-'
,, . , . , , .
i tually mil rounded unit cut off from rs-
enforcement!" und supplies.
ti-i.i.i. ..i. t -ki. iA
I rho "rltlsh nor,h of ( ombI" dl
well their part of the work laid out.
mi,!.,,. .i, .. Hirnm.u. fnrt inert vll-
. ..:., , ,i, ,.,.rru..
"
The French south of Sombhs captured
the village of Rancourt, less than two
miles almost duo cast of Combles. They
also pressed to the outskirts of tha
hamlet of Freglcourt, which Is on the;
only other road available to the Oermea
garrison.
tlllrs I nl Ml Itoads.
Thu the alllf" have cut all the roadsi
0 (unbles lui dominate with their ur-
, , b , , ,.lchlnn KU11!, ,
' . , ,
c'0',' 1,r they, all tho ground by which.
the garrison niislit ho Mirrored,
, f-0 tK,tly are the Hiltlsh and French
' squeezing , 'omhles that the.r
' ends Morval and the vicinity of 1-tcgt-
'eoutt ate little over a mile apart. Tha
three villages taken tn-duy were tho last
of Hut rlnt; of fortified villages which
" im't-ctlng Combles.
Combles, once taken, the cntre of the
German line fion. it .paume Jo 1'eronne.
a Ine louhl of Mfl.en mil., will be
The British Hoops w. r not content
tiencbes are but four mllen distant from
li..M
I The
i!;r main objective.
II Xuliurbs of I'rrounr,
gl.iy blue l iench lines rushed
uito mid over the German trenches
along a finnt of more than eight miles
from doiibien south i, n, s.mim.
About Combles Itself was ihe hottest
tlghtinc and Ihe strongest resistance,
The Germans, however, could not with.
. ul.i m I tli.. 1l.11.t1 nf ill
poltu and the
the maze of
French eaptuied all
trenches and entanglements northeast
oi i-nuinies alio near mil no
j While l'..uicouii was being taken in a
series of tleiie hand Io hand lights, other
Flench troops east of It penetrated to
, oje,-' M.U to ivionne, tiie "r end, "Z
J.c.lv.. The soldleis of Gen For,, are
prart.calh 1, the Hlbuibs 0 r-eioure.
, , mva t onl) the fa I of Comb es to
. ,, m,., sii (iii. iitin t -v t..,r.,n,,
j attar l .Mont !"t. i.uuitln, Ke) to eronno.
lilies' Losses Mitnll.
iniillleiv Hie and much lie mill file o i t
I lie til Ills-it nine not ye; coiinieo an men
spoils, but the number of pilaiier and
enpltlieil machine guns Is laige
The French and Hiltlsh olll'..,l .tu.
mi nts describing the day's inipoi tain ad.
Vance lollow. Th" llllti.b ttnti unlit
rays :
"South of Ihe An re oui iron nr.
tncl.rd Moiida) and have bn"i e'ery.
wlieiv sib'i essfnl Ihnmy p.'H urns wi ro
Moiined on a lion, of about n ui.les
betwieu Coiniibs and Maitliipulch to a
depth of nioie thin a mile The sintmilv
foitillul iilliu" id Morv.i' and la,
boeufs, tosdhci' wth s .ml luies of
t'-enclies. Iiavo lallen tut n our hands
"The Vl'lige of Morval stand' oi, hn
heights north of fumbles and w "i i
Mlblerrnii'Mli quarries, trcuhes ,,v t.i
enbill-'ellleiits cnnsllluteil a lonn Inb a
forties's. The postesslou nf il,ec in
vitl le'es Is of considerable
poitance and prai tic-illv m -t i ..
cud's enmniunle.itlnns. with i'i o du,
"A large miinbei o i iie i - a
ihlnt' gun mid other wi ni.itt 'vie ,
taken, Heavy is,ses weie lutHc'i I ,
the enemy. Jn comv-rtson with the te-
(tcriiians jiui'KMi ihu'k n
y01nm(. Aloilft-Front of
i
