LSON FOR WAR
ON AUEN TRADE
Regrets Timidity of U. S. in
Deahng with Competitors.
By FRANK R. LAMB.
(Internetimsnl News Service,)
Baltimore. Md., Sopt. 2L-President
Wilon this afternoon Bred another broad
sue in defense of the acts of his admin
ktraion
ganking before the National Grain
Dealers' Association at the Princess The
aftr bere, the President answered even
more sharply that in his speech of
Naturday the charges of inefficiency
m e- aginst the Democratic administra
ties by Charles Evans Hughes.
Showing an earnestness that kept him
audlensc listening intently, the President
hammered homn with emphasis a sum
'nery of those achievements of his ad
msnistration which he declared would
prove of great benefit to the business
men of the country.
The President was greeted with a roof
raising demnamtration as he entered the
theater.
"We want Wilson-he is a life-saver.
yelled one enthusiastic man In the rear
of the haL The cheering that followed
was almost daLening.
"We should divest ourselves of the
consciousness that we are In the midst of
a political campaign." said the President
at the outset. 'Nothing ever so inter
fered with the serious conduct of public
business as a campaign.
"I want to talk about the business of
the country. The agricultural acreage of
the country should produce twice as
much as it dos now and it will in a
decade from now."
The President then launched into a vig
orous eulogy of the rederal reserve act.
"We have swung into a new business
era he said. "Not until the Federal
reserve act became a law were American
banks equipped with the proper instru
CONTINr"ED ON PAGE TWO.)
DECLARES GEORGETOWN
GAS FLOW INADEQUATE
R. P. Andrews to Complain to Utili
ties Commission.
A complaint against the service given
by the Georgetown Gas Light Company
and a petition for a hearing regarding
its alleged inadequacy will be filed this
morning with the Public Utilities Com
mission by R. P. Andrews, a prominent
local business man and a patron of the
Georgetown company.
In his complaint. Mr. Andrews allsgel
that 'the service now bng received by
pgople who live in the viciity of Twen
ty-eighth and P stree nrtkwst is en
Uref? tadequte. bot as to tuality and
quantity.
Mr. Andrews declares it is Impossible
to obtain gas for illuminating purposes
when his gas stove is in use and that
whenever gas is burning in more than
one room he is forced to use candles to
light other rooms.
-I am not the only one who is com
plaining of this condition," said Mr. An
drews. "for there is general dissatisfac
t on in our part of town against the
service. although we pay a much higher
rate than do the people of Washington.
I would have had electric lights installed
long ago were it not for the fact that
the electric company refuses to extend
its service as far as my home."
MILK DEALER OFFERS
TO DISPOSE OF PLANT
C. G. Dade Suggests Producers Pay
Royalty of 2 Cents a Gallon.
At the meeting of the executive corn
mittee of the Maryland and Virginia Milk
Producers' Association, to be held today
in the Mansey Building, it Is expected
that derinite plans will be adopted to
ward the campaign to establish a muni
cipal dairy in Washington.
The following letter was received by
The Herald last night from a prominent
milk dealer of this city:
"Washington Herald-As the milk pro
ducer wants from 2 to 3 cents more per
gallon for his milk and is threatening us
with a municipal plant if he does not
get it. you may say for me. If any or
all of them want to put up a satisfac
tory bond to pay me 2 cents per gallon
net proit for what I am putting out to
day, for the next ten years. I will turn
over my entire plant. . C. G. DADE."
The statement cited above is probably
just what all the dealers of this city will
demand should the municipal dairy be
come a reality. Most of the dealers who
have been interviewed say they are per
tectly willing to turn over their business
to the producers if they can obtain a
reasonable price.
Commissi-ner Newman said yesterday
of the potribility of a central municipal
dairy plant in Washington:
"I am )eartty in favor of such a plan.
as it has been demonstrated that the
ordinary methods of distributing milk
are uneconomical. unsatisfactory and un
profitable.
"It is absurd for a dozen milk wagons
to cover the same territory each day,
and in some parts of the city as many
as eight wagons serve milk in the same
block. Establishment of a municipal
dairy is. of course; a very radical pro
posal, but there are times when such a
monopoly is test for the public welfare.
"I certainly hope the producers will
be successful in their efforts to obtain
the central plant, and I shall be glad
to do all in my power to aid the pro
ject-''
FUGITIVE CAUGHT DY 1rATr.
Alleged Marderes Identimed by GIrl
at Delivery Window.
Altoona. Pa.. Sept. 5--Chief et Polica
Tillard was advised that Alfred Wondt.
aged 21. the second of two broths4in
dcted in Blair County for the murder
of Constable Michael McGinley here ls
October, was arrested last night in Mil
waukee in company with his brother
Ewalt.
Waiter, aged 19, the other brother, was
captursd In Chicago. Septembher 25, in
comnany with a'third brother, Karl, and
they are sur is Hantasburg jail.
The ski is the guneral delivery window
at the Milwankes peetoffice identiled a
phetograph of Alfred as Frank Nelson.
and when- "Nelson" cafld for mall last
for stlellolthsig e igtEt we
with 'sc c' " dsms. of di w lsws I V~ W
It is am io on the reader
it is invited toi hom and is a reg--o
lar breakfast-time visitor. Ditmsieacnwsr
LD. i6A tis. fWr acies toCy.
NO.363. - m1us-VI WAS-a GTOfN-~ --.s TtUEsDA -isi --~1-- ONE CEif.
Zeppelins Launch
On Easiern
(my Iaternatisem
London. Sept. 25.-Another Seppe
occurred tonight.
The following official statement
French:
"Several hostile airship@ crooe"I
tween 10:20 o'clock and midnight.
"Bembs were dropped in som
counties.
"One airship was reported off t
"No report of casualties or dam
HUGHES ATTACKS
8-HOUR DEFENSE
Wilson Might as Weli Be Dic
stator, Says Candidate.
my WILLIAM MOSTER.
(International News service.)
Dayton Ohio. Sept. 26.-Charles E.
Hughes tonital made a sensational
answer to President Wilson's Shadown
Lawn speech of last Saturday evening
defending the Adamson eight-hour law.
in effect he asserted that if Mr. W111an'S
tendencies continue be sanght as wli be
elected, dictator of the matIeM
Hanging his repi am a dedaIusS mmat
there baA been tee Much ae1.Ues by
this administration involving esm=f-MUS
phrases appelaintly intended to mean me
thing to one set of geen to get their votes
and another thing to another set of men
to allay their fears. Hughes asserted
that civil war lies along the lines of
such legislation as the Adamson act, and
concluded:
"Let no one confuse the American
mind as to the principle of legislative
action. It has been the game sincs the
legislatures first began to sit, and I hope
it will remain the same as long as we
continue to have legislativ action in
this country. Indeed. if it is abandoned
you might as welr wind up your Repub
lic and appoint a dictator, letting him
be appointed who has the greatest force
to exert to compel obedience to his com
mana "
The big audience in Memorial Hall here
in which an ail-day opening of the Ohio
campaign was being concluded. rose and
cheered the candidate's remarks.
Answering of President Wilson's cita
tion of the 00-cent gas case in New York
to the effect that there the legislature
fixed the rate without an investigation
of the facts beforehand, Hughes declared
that as counsel for the State in that
matter he had caused a most exhaustive
investigation of all the facts to be made
before any legislative action was taken
This, he asserted, was in Itself enough
to prove the case ggainst the PreeSntil
action through the Adamson act:
Much of the force of Hughes' address
was lost because of his seeming reluct
ance to mention the President by name
or to indicate that he was making reply
to the President's defense of his action.
BRIMTER FOR 0.. P.,
HITCHCOCK ANNOUNCES
Submits Optimistic Report but Inti
mates Hard Work Is Ahead.
I By the Internatieal News Serviee.)
New York. Sept. 2.-Frank H. Hitch
cock today submitted to Republican Na
tional Chairman Willcox a report on
ronditions as they affect the Hughes cam
paign in the Middle West, Southwest.
and Northwest, as well as the Paciflb
slope. Hitchcock had just returned from
his second tour of observation in thess
territories. His report was substantially
as follows:
Nebraska. Nevada, New Maico, Ar
zona and Moutana must be carried to
make a Republican United States Senate.
Illinois, Ohio, Minnesota. the Dakotas.
Kansas, Nebraska. Colorado. Washing
ton, Oregon, California. Idaho. and Utah,
Mr. Hitchcock believes. will throw their
electoral votes to Hughes.
Indiana, Missouri. Kentucky. and Ton
nessee Mr. Hitchcock regards as doubtful.
After summing all this up and hWlane
ing it over against other territaely not
included in his tour, Mr. Hitchcock thinks
NeIr York. Indiana. New Jerey, and
Connecticut are still necessary to insure
teh election of Mr. Hughes.
" am far more optimistic about the
Middle West and 'Pacifi slope than I
was on my last trip." id Hitchcock.
"The Hugbes carmpaign has at last
struck the right swing."
COMT $10,000,000 TO WED.
Widow Lose Half of Fortune by
Heeding Cupid's Call.
Lexington. Ky., Sept. 2.-Mrs. John C.
C. Mayo. of Paintsville. widow of the
Eastern Kentucky coal baron, who died
in New York City two years ago, and
Dr. Samuel Totter. of Portsmouth, Ohio,
were married in Ashland Saturday night.
Under Mr. Mayo's will Mrs. Fetter will
lose haff of her first husband's fortune,
estimated at S20,00,O..
When her son was taken ill last win
ter and was brought to a Lexington hos
pital. Dr. Fetter was engaged as the
tamnily physician, and the romance which
led to the wedding began.
TOWN MOVES SEVEN MITTS.
Changes Location to get on Kansas
Itailroad L~ne.
Salina, Kane., Sept. 25-The town of
Victor is moving today--moving sectn
milqe to Hunter. In long caravans wag
on. and trucks are -transporting one
town to the other.
Victor has been defeated In its fight
with Hunter for the Salina Northeastern
Rlailroad. So. after admitting it had
bieen beaten. Victor has decided to get
on the railroad lin~e.
The bank has already been mowed
overland to Hunter and the elevator and
several business enterprises, with resi
dents end employee, will follow.
Amsterdam. Sept. 5,-The Telegraaft
reports that the German stamsahip gep.
tima, interned since the outbreak of the
war, escaped from a Dutch port Satur
day' The Septima displaced 1,324 tons
and hailed from Piensburg, Gerrnany.
She is owned by the F'lensbur'g Stams~hip
New Attack
Coast of England
I mews -eV11s.)
ln raid on the east coast of England
was issued at midnight by Sir John
the east and northeast easts be
places in the northern midlagd
s south coast.
age has been received."
D. C. SUFFRAGE
GOAL OF CLUB
Hughes Organization Made
Permanent, with This Aim.
Formation of a permanent organization
devoted to the cause of District repro.
mentation in Congress, was effected at a
meeting last night of the Hughes 'Club
of Washington.
This organisation, formed primarily to
advance the Interests of the Republican
candidates in mse coming siestis. will
Pes0rve its orga=izatio after the arn
paigoft =i6 and seek to obtain sufrage
f- Me Disbistet, scoeding to the state
meet of Pr"Idnm Wnam R. Harr.
Th. m10t0g Was a homue-warming In
the Maghee elub's quarters. The state
=eat of the club's future purpose was
med in a speech by the President, in
which he eclared the organisation's pur
poem Is three-fold-"to ansst In the elec
tion of the Republican candidates. to pro
vide a forum for the discussion of Dim
triat affairs, and to secure for the Dig
trict of Columbia representation in Con
greSs mnd the right to vote."
"There is nothing in our commission
form of government or in our status as
a Federal district," said Mr. Harr, 'in
compatible with our having representa
tion in the Congress of the United States,
The tresajment accorded the people of
this District by the present administra
tjon has, I believe, served to arouse a
goodly number of them to something
more than private excoriation of their
rulers. The present time seems most
propitious for the assertion of our
political rights, as embodied in the
maxim of the founders of this nation,
that 'taxation without representation Is
tyranny.'
"Many among us look to the Hughes
Club as a permanent and powerful civic
organization, membership in which will
be synonymous with patriotism, courage
and good cIttienship."
Mr. Harr said the people of the Dim
.riet-age I4li6d 4we"ur-pos, 'with pity
and comtempt." by the people of the rest
of the country and "their representatives
on Capitol Hill."
THREE CIVIC BODIES
URGE BAN ON ARMS
Indiscriminate Sale of Weapons De
nounced by Associations.
Indiscriminate sale of firearms was de
nounced at meetings of three local citi
lens' associations last night.
"The ease with which firearms can be
purchased is a menace to the District,"
declared J. Francis Sutor, addressing
the West End Citnsem' Association at
the Powbatan Hetet,
President A. DrisoD, before the
Mid-City CsI:5 atoao, said: "The
present wave 494,lk resulting in mur
degs and attack% in due to the fact that
engerus weapo are so easily obtain
ed by Irresposi-ble persons."
The Central Citisens' Association ar
raigned dealers who sell weapons Indis
criminately.
Al three bodies adopted resolutions
asking the District Comminioners' aid
toward effecting legislation to prevent in
discriminate sal9 of weapons.
The Central Citisens' Association, be
side opposing the present manner of dis
podINg Of weapons in the District, advo
Gated a closer Watch on the sale of junk,
wb they said is stolen and sold with
impunity.
The carnival of the Mid-City body has
been postponed until next April, becausV
it was thought the paving of Seventh
street above It street northwest, and the
improvement of the lighting system on
Fourteenth street will not be completed
before cold weather.
The invitation of Postmaster Merritt 0.
Chance to visit the new postoffice was
accepted. Members of the association
WHil visit the building in a body after
the next meeting of the fourth Monday
In October. Seventeen new members
were accepted. The meeting was address
ed by Washington Topham and Charles
S. Shreve.
SWEET QUITS U. S. POST
TO RUN FOR GOVERNOR
President Wilson yesterday received the
resignation of Edwin F. Sweet as Assist
ant Secretarry of Commerce, which post
he has held since the beginning of the
Democratic administration.
Mr. Sweet Is the Democratic nominee
for governorof Michigan and will make
his first speech in the campaign at
Sturgia, Mich., tomorrow, at a political
field day In connection with the dedica
tion of a municipal water works system.
No action toward filling the vacancy
caused by Mr. Sweet's resignation will
be taken at present.
G. 0. P. MEN ASK 8 TO 5
IN BETTING ON HUGHES
Special to Ths Washiston Heald.
New York, Sept. 25.-Betting odds on
the Wall Street curb today were in favor
of Hughes, but with 8 to 5 asked by the
Republicans, while Democrats were de
manding 2 to 1 for small bets and 2 1-2 to
1 for larger bets. One wager was report
ed of 5.000 on Hughes to $2,500 on Wilson.
L. J. Stokes Offered $5,000 on Hughes at
8 to 5 and could find no takers. Edward
McQuade offered $5,000 on Wilson at 1 to
2 1-2, and likewise found no takers. Curb
commisalod~ers said the odds demanded
on both sides were too widely apart to
produce much reeL betting,
\Telegraph Tipi|
icaw. Sept. 2.-Crackamen sawed
their way through the rea hars of a
rear windew into the fruit store of
Looms and Uatakis eariy today. blew
open a larwe safe, and escaped th
between 0%0 and $7100.
Seattle, Wash., Sept. 5.-A chair of
Russian language and literature has been
endowed at the University of Wash
ington by Samuel Hill, millionaire we
of the late James J. Hill. according to
announcement today by Dr. Henry Bus
salo. president of the university.
Chicago, Sept. S.-Buildings in the
heart of Chicago were shaken early to
day when a bomb was exploded on a fire
escape in the rear of the Orpheum
Theater in the Loop district. The damage
was small. This is the seventh In a
series of bomb explosions in the war of
the chauffeurs' and moving pictuse
operaters' unions.
B-lin (via Saville), Sept. K-Mrs.
James F. Gerard. wife of the American
Minister to Germany. had a narrow
escape here when an automobile in which
she we riding collided with a taxieab.
She was not injured. Though suffering
from a nervous shock she returned to her
home without receiving the aid of a
physician.
San Antonia, Texas, Sept. 3.-The
Eighth Illinois regiment of National
Guardsmen was ordered home today.
New York, Sept. 5.-Capt. John IC
Meiekle. of the steamship ealvinia.
which went down in Bristol channel on
September 2, arrived here on the Anchor
Liner California today. Twenty-seven
Ameorcen members of the Kelvinia's
crew, also arrived here on the California.
Berlin, Sept. 3.-The Dutch steamer.
Batavier II, of the Batavier Lne,' whiob
was seisd by a German submoartne while
on her way to London and taken into
Zabrugge because she carried anmraband.
had thirty-eight passengers an board.
says a dispatch to the Overseas News
Agency today. Four of the passengers
were Russina who had apparently
escaped from a prison ceamp.
Kasas City. No.. Sept. 5.-Bankers
from all parts of the country gathered in
Kansas City today to attend the forty
second annual convention of the Ameri
can 13ankers' Association. The sessions
will continue throughout the week. The
principal issue is that of standardling
the so-called nation-wide check-clearing
system.
Trenton. N. J.. Sept. 25.-James B.
Breeze has trained his prise Dalmatlon
to act as an auto horn. The dog sits on
the front seat of Breese's car and when
ever his master nudges the dog barks
furiously.
New York. Sept 25.-To help his rheu
matism, Samuel Yacovitto put calcium
carbide in his bath water. The gas jet
was lighted. The blast that followed
shattered every window in the house and
sent Samuel to the hospital.
_'ambride, Masa. ,Uetit - A frein
class estimated to nmber more than
70 was on hand for the opening of the
two hundred and eighty-first year at
Harvard tniversity todoy. The principal
innovation this year is the instituting of
the department of military science.
New York, Sept. 25.-The yellow fever
commission of the Rockefeller Founda
tion arrived here today on the steamship
Brazos from San Juan after a two-month
study of sanitary conditions along the
west coast of South America.
Paterson. N. J., Sept. t-Five hundred
workers in the Dolphin Jute mills will
parteipate in a voluntary increase of 10
per cent in wages granted by the firm on
Saturday.
Ottawa. Ont . Sept. 25-Canada has
subscribed $180.000,00 for the 1100,000.000
war loan. Small subscribers will be con
sidered first and their applications will be
granted in full. Larger subscribers will
be allotted bonds in part. Canadian
banks have undertaken to continue
financing the payment of muntion manu
facturers for Canadian shell orders.
Mexico City. Sept. 25.-The Finance De
partment has issued a circular giving
the National Bank and the Bank of Ldn
don and Mexico permission to reepen to
day and continue business under the di
rect -upervision of government bank ex
aminers.
Berlin. Sept. --The maximum price of
oats, as a result of more plentiful har
vests, has been reduced $5 a ton, says the
Overseas News Agency.
Chicago. Sept. 25.-Charles H. Hawkins.
a famous comedian of the civil war days,
was buried here today without a mourn
er present. The veteran actor was found
dying a week ago In a cheap rooming
house. At the height of his fame Hawk
ins was a comedian in "Tennessee's
Fardner."
Augusta. Me.. Sept. 25-A statement
filed today by Gov.-elect Carl E. Milliken.
Republican, showed that his czmpaIgn
expenses were $155. Of this amount $80
was expended for printing and M75 for
campaign buttons.
New London, Conn.. Sept. 25.--George
Hanson. keeper of the lighthouse on
Southwest Ledge, has turned his eagle
loose. He caught the bird with a fish
net when it dropped exhausted near the
light, and tied it to a stanchion. The
eagle, which was six feet from tip to
Ftip, tried to bite Hanson every time he
fed it.
Philadelphia, Pa., Sept. 25.-With his
little daughter's arms about his neck and
his wife 'oeside him. William Ritcher was
shot and killed on the porch of his home,
at Hancock anid Shunk. street. Detectives
are working on the theory that Ritcher
wvas killed as the result of a quarrel with
an unidentified mian Firiday night.
Indianapolis. Ind., Sept. 25.-The Ameri
can Association of Obstreticians and
Gynecologists openedl Its twenty-ninth
annual convention here today and will
remain in session for three days. More
than 100 physicians from all parts of the
country are in attendance.
Cleveland, Ohio, Sept. 25-John D.
Rockefeller went to the annual gradua
tion exercises of the Euclid Avenue Bap
tist Church laden with pennIes and went
home with empty pockets. Every student
got one, and all but Emil Reiff said.
"Thank you." Emil is only (pur months
old.
CThicago. Sept. z--A brother of Samuel
Meisenberg, the marine who bosh his life
at Vera Cruz, prevented the dedication of
the monument erected in Waldhelm Come
tery to the hero's memory. The brother
Edward Meisenberg, startled the five hua
dred persons present by charging that the
society which erected the monument had
failed to give his poverty strliken parenta
money promised to them. Th~e dedication
wa. mea
Russo-Roumanian
Dobrudja V
London. Sept. 15.-A brief bullet
great Ruess.Roumanian victory has
course of which 2.0 prisoners were
The latest Roumanian official at
change. along the Danube in Dobrd;
In Transylvania, however. sucese
one of which, at sermannstedt, See
front. says Buchereet. forty-eight offl
tured since Roumant entered the wa
Bucharest has been bombarded by
today.
CIVIC BODIES AID
IN ARMOR FIGHT
Three Large Associations of I
Citizens Join in Campaign.
Added impetus was given Washington's
fight as a mite for the location of the
government's 511.1W armor plant when
three of the largest citinens' asodations
of this city-The West Ped. The Central I
and The Md-City--indorsed the project
and signified their intention to enter the
campaign laun-bed by the Chamber of
Commerce.
All three assocatiems unanimoemsy.
adopted resolutions dealing with the pre- 1
1eet. This unsetinty sugued well, for I
ether citisen bodies are likely to take the
ame action at their next meetings.
That the strip of land faviliarty known
as 1rd's Point. would prove an Ieali I
ite for the Government plant is the op- I
in of the president of the Chamber of I
Commerce.
"There are about 70 acres down there,
said President Moran, "that could be pur
phased by the government for a very mod
erate sum. This territory Is most un
sightly and such a plant as the govern
ment proposes building would not only
tend to beautify the locality but woulidi
give the government entire ownership of
the point, part of which is now occupied
by the Arsenal grounds.
"Other features which make this spot
desirable are easy accessabilitv to the
city proper. On one mabe there is a canal
through which coal could be shipped from
Cunberland. On the other side there is
water deep enough to float any vessel
that could come up the Potomac River.
The site also is adjacent to the lines of
two of the largest railroad systems in
the country. Practically no grading
would be necessary.
Answering objection of those who say
the smoke law would prevent the work
ing of svoch a. plant. President Moran
said:
"The nhw 'smoke consumers, such as
are being used by laundries, factories and
other industries, have proved that al
most any kind of production can be
maintained without breaking the smoke
law."
PERSHING PROMOTED
TO SUCCEED MILLS
Appointed Major General in Army.
Other Changes Announced.
Secretary of War Baker yesterday an
nounced the promomtion of Brig (en.
John J. Pershing to be a major general
succeeding the late Mai. Gen. Albert L.1
Mills, who was chief of the Militia Bureau
of the Department.
Col. Eben Swift (cavalry). stationed at
thd Army Service School, Fort Leaven
worth. Kan.. succeeds Gen. Pershing as
brigadier general.
Other appointments as brigadier gener
als to succeed officers who will retire'
before March 4. next, were announced n%
Secretary Baker as follows:
Col. F. H. French (infantry , genera;
staff corps. Yuma. Ariz., to succeed Brig.
Gen. Granger Adams, stationed at present
at Fort Bliss, Texas.
Col. Edwin St. J. Greble. Sixth Fle:
ArtHilery, Douglas, Ariz., to succeed Brig.
Gen. Montgomery H. Macomb. president'
of the Army War College, Washington i
Col. Charles G. Treat (field artillery.
general staff corps, Army War College. -
succeed Brig Gen. Frederick W. Sibley.
Fort Clark, Tex.
Brig. Gen. Pershing was senior in that
grade, and his promotion was generally
expected.
SMITHSONIAN OFFICIAL
LOSES DIVORCE FIGHT
Special to The Washington Hersa
Reno, Nev., Sept. 2 -The divorce sui:
brought by Dr. Harrison G. Dyar. the
entomologist of the Smithsonian I-stitu
tion. Washington, against Mrs. Zelie P.
Dyar has ended suddenl).
Judge Stoddard granted the motion of
Mrs. Dyar's lawyer and dismissed the
case on the ground that Dr Dyar is not
a bona ide resident of Nevada.
ASKS FOR MILITIA TO
FIGHT ONION-BED FIRE
Special to The Washgtr.ao Herald.
Columbus. Ohio. Sept. m,-Request that
the State militia be called out immediate
ly to light extensive fires in what are
p1d to be the world's largest onion beds.
at McGuffey, near Kenton, Ohio. were
received by Gay. Wills' office tcday.
It was stated that the vegetable decay
of several inches in the beds was burn
ing, causing a large loss.
ITALIANS ADVANCE IN
MONTE CAURIOL SECTOR
(By the Ilanational News Service.)
Rome. Sept. ZE-A furt>. :..:-loce !cr
the Italians in the sector of M4 ve Catu
riol was reported by the war o.flice today.
In Trentinb artillery duela have increased
In vIolence. There Is considerable aerial
activity. The officil report follows:
"In tlye Trentino the artiltery dueling
has increased. A few shells fell on Ala.
which was not damaged. In the remton
between Vanol and Aristo on Saurda'
nafternoon the Aipini captured c>rdinai
i
FQrces Win
ictory, Is Report
News Servies.)
a from Petrograd declares that a
been achieved in Dobrudja. In the
taken. Details are lacking.
Ltement reports only artillery ex
a.
les are recorded, In the course of
Austrians were captured. On this
cers sad 6.836 men have been cap
a German air raider. Berlin reports
VENIZELOS READY
TO LEAD REVOLT
'ormer Greek Premier on Way
to Saloniki to Aid Uprising.
[3y the Internatemmi Nlews service.)
LAedon. Sept 2.-The unrest which for
seeks bas been smoldering in Greece has
it l=at birst Into atame and a series of
tartinbg developIments Is reported In dis
latches tonight.
Having ~aPaently failed in his utmost
boilrt tW ind.eee King Constantine in
aver of hostilitim adatat the central
mie, teremr Premer Veatselcs. the
~Ime.' ' etag m 4 a Geseces. has left
Lithem Sa iniami, and it in reported.
FMn head ths growX revolutionary
novesneat In la.msm. and Crete.
The depate of Venisalce from Coa
- --. ...a. b. .orted in dis
batches to the Mar and teuter agencIes.
1e is expected nithar to visit Crete on
Lis journey to Shonikl or to go from the
atter port to the isan.
All Crete Is If rehasm. Thbty thou
and armed revoa~tioisa have seized
tontrol of the Idand aid have occupied
he cities of Cane&, Capita. Heraclion
Lnd other coast towns.
The government buildings at Canea
lave been seized and the government rep
esentatlves expelled.
Accompanying Venizelos on his jour
iey from Athens are Rear Admiral Con
iouritis commander-in-chief of the
tavy. and officers of his staff. as well as
ixty-nine of the eirhty members of the
<Ing's Cretan guards
OnIy eleven of the royal troop remained
oyal
Venizelos. a Cretan by birth. is generally
xpected to assume the leadership of the
evclutlon.
The King's stummer palace at Tatol is
eing guarde4 by loyal troops.
The King is reported in ill health and
!onfined to hie bed.
The Daily TevgraPh has receFved a die
,atch from its correspondent at Athena.
3. J. Stephens. that Venizelos has agreed
o lead the revolutionary movement.
PLAN TO ALLEVIATE
CENSORSHIP TROUBLES
Bntish Official and U S. Businesi
Men Hold New York Conference.
[By the TIternatiensl News %ervie.)
New York. Sept 3.-Sir Richard Craw
'ord, trade adviser to the B-itish Em
>assy. today held a prolonged informal
-onference at the Bankers' Club with rep
-etative Americar bankers and busi
less men. at which the effects of the Brit
eh mail censorship and the trade 'black
Itt were taken up.
The conference. .ir Richard said. was
ield at his suggestion. so that he might
ret into immediate contact aith firma
loing a larte foreign busiress and learn
he nature of their complaint.
The result of the luncheon, it was an
nounced, w- a decision to nppoint a com
nittee of husineas mer. to consist of
hree or four members, through whom all
ornplaints could be taken up
It was thought this would expedite the
rnatter more than would be possible if
t were necessary to deal with thirty ,r
more different fWs in regard to these
omplaints.
This naturally supersedes the work of the
state Department. it was pointed ou.
Sir Richard explained the purpose of
he mal censors Ip by saying It was in
,nded to reveal lots relatlve to nieri
ran plants making materials for the al
Iles
Another object. he said. was to uncover
propaganda work being carried on !: this
country.
The chief difficulty, he declared. w-s m
handling private correspondence and it
w3 due to the time consu.med in hard
ling it that caused delay to business mail
HEARD THE JAILBIRD WALTZ?
Come% from Atlanta Penttentiary.
Written bX Conlict.
Atlanta. Ga., Sept "5--Broadway will
soon know a new song, a waltz. com
pored by John T Hal. ar inmate of the
Feiral prison here. and former New
York composer
The new song is called "Adlyn." It was
played for the first time at the prison
concert Sunday afternoon to an audi
ecre of 2.W. and brought down the
house
Hall. who has two yeare more to serve,
wsas forced to make repeated "curtain
catll." The piece is described as an
infectious. romantic waltz. iLrged with
melancholy
KING FEEDINAND IN TEA'RS.
Wept at Palace om Night Roumania
Declared War.
Paris. Sept. 2C*-Weepine as he spoke.
King Ferd:nard, of Roumnania. stood in
the palace at Bucha.rest on the night that
Rounmania declared war on Auatrni-Hun
prary, and pointIng to a photo ot Marigen
Chtteau, in Germany. exclaimed to the
queen:
"I played urder those trses as a child
I shoil noer see them Saain."
A disaptich from IBuchacest today gaye
this di-nmatic detail of the Roumanlan
king's pction as he gave the command
which threw Roumania into the -world
conflict.
Rochester Raises Bread Price.
R'oc'.i-.N. . Sept. 2 .Two of the
12ii- - 1, itoe hor e i.. th !tv an
nousi. lhi i'.OO'i that th rice ofi
hi-l to 0I4 b' i wreisod tororros.
morniutg to 6 and 12 cents for amall and
lare loavam_ ammetiv.
AWES GAl MILE
ON SOMME FRON
hree Powerfufy FortWed
Viges Capred in Driv.
(my the Iatermesmm News 6orsymin)
London. Sept. -After thre days of
the most colossal mrtllery bossesinest
of the war the Frehfb and BritA 4fa
struck on the Seoam today.
The big cuns had clead the way tor
the infantry and "tns.,* and the es
blood armies scored an almost unifoem
advance of a mile on a twelve-mfle frem.
The ritish swept forward for a fal
mile on the six-mile front from
pulch to Combles.
The French. joining them here, enwsted
the advance over a wide strete eXtedi
ing as far south as the river.
Three powerfully fortified villages-B-l
court. Morval and Isboeus-were cap
tured, together with two heights and sev
eral extensive trench labrynths betwees.
The German garilson which still holds
out in the ruins of Comblee Is practically
cut off, according to Gen. Hai's report
The Germaa iosses are described as
tremendous. Tn Teutons lost great num
bers of men in prisoners Machine guns
and war materlo1 in huge Quantities fell
into the hands of the allies.
Pressing forward northeast of Combles.
the French carried their lines to the
southern outskirts of Fregicourt. seiing
the entire stretch of fortified ground be
tween iameau and Hill No 140.
It was in this vest surge that Raneourt
fell Into tei'Ir hands. what Germans were
left retiring preetpItately or being taken
prisoners.
The drive In the sector betweem Ran
court and Bouchavesnes eas no less sue
oessful.
Here the French advanced almost a
mile on the whole line. capturing a height
northeast of Bouchaesnes. which gives
them artillery command of the strong
hold.
The most important success from the
British point of view is the rapture of
Morvat
260,000 AGiREE TO 1i0
ON STRIKE, IS CLAIM
New York Workers Vote for General
Walk-out Tomorrow.
(By the Isternatesal Newa servies.)
New York. Sept M -Reports from rep
resentatives of forty-ilve per cent of the
organized workers in Greater New York
were received today by the comUMittes
direeting the general strike nmoveset.
Hugh Frayne, representing the Ametem
Federation of LYher. Pre ed
At the Conclus1on of the m"tg to
night Mr. Frayne declered ta all the
unions heard from voted In favor of the
suspension of work on Wednesday in
sympathy with the striking car mtsein
The total number of union workers in
New York. he Baid. Is 40.O01 The num
her of men and women ccmmitted to
-he general strike, therefore according
to the report. Is .0f
No time has been set for the ending of
the strike, which wtil continu e u-t:
stopped by order of the labor conference.
"They may not all go out on Wednee
da. Mr, Frayne added. some will
stop work on Thursday, others on Fr!
day. Saturday. and Monday Son. may
not go out at all "
He refused to give any estimate of the
number that will go out at C o clock
Wednesday morning, the ho:r set by the
Gr,-ster New York Il-or Onfe.er e ast
Friday for the genera striike to begsI7
Final plans for the conl, t of !he gen
-era' t:itk CI be rm ' t> nes(
morning at a meeting in Bp-e'ho en Hall
Representative? of all the c.twral labor
nions. hilding trades and trades
cotmcils of ;reater N-= York and
vicinity will form the stKrke convention.
About W members and lfTa s of or
ganized labor are p-Ied to a tend
SHE ARRESTS MAN IN
"DRESDEN DOLL" CASE
Alleged Pnncipal in Supposed Kid
napping of May Ward Caught.
By the Internatiu0i News Ser.ice-)
N~York. "e;. -~ A-"on
r. 'flsiil A lZ~~r'
,,n fim iackerrack
r-reted the , 'grd Pr r
Tl&. kio 5; ri
t t e r sN. r
u emsn -' se~ n . ..l
whomt' she'ws Snin H I. ta
to pI e hn
Iou Fnd Fr T -i, e 550cr
t'endoin extri. e p.c m5Hed
'',t&N j
AscomPnlf a a - m
Hent to jie and th an < f-.'
qre .,f A11- 1; ..........
the missing Thr Buldin
There sli tonsd \' eaIe for
* hon she j-s "ir . I 'Is iaien
to, pol Ice 1,, .d 'ss 0. o .ls
Tendina exterdieien ace'dys l eitI
s-.rihed himself 1' at 1i-._1 '* nsonagRe
W'allace is said to be is- 'A lse' A'
Harry slegei and t, hne :-n
the (jaif-tv Theater BsslinrE
The -Dresden doll' jt~sappeared last
uscenes In which her hudsan and law o
ilcers from Hackensacks contended with
determined men from New York for the
possess of Bernstemn's wife.
15 HURT IN SUBWAY CRASH.
Broadway Expese Hits er End of
Empty Traia--Pletemam Me.
flBy the lmtenasttoea New. Serelesi
New York. Sept 25 --Fifteer persons
wsere injured, one probatbly fatally, and
several seriously. this afternoon when a
Broadway subway express train crashed
into the rear end of an empty train on
the elevated end of the line at Two Hun
dred and Seventh street.
The express train went by- a danger
gir-al which had been set in the restr of
the emipty tr~ln.
Policeman Howard Baiger, who was on
the front platform of the express. heroi
cally tried to bring the empress train to
a stop when the maotorman left his pest.
He was badly crusbed and Is io a sarens
Earl of Em Dies.
t-ondon. Sept. 2E-Word was received
from New market this afterrnoon of the
death there of th Earl of Ema. M Ge
aos et
