tune
VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLA., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1916.
NUMBER 301.
FOX FIELD ADDS NEW LIFE TO OIL
GAME IN SOUTHERN OKLAHOMA
G TT
BRITISH TAKE CITY OF CDIWBLES
JONTINUOUS FIGHTING MROUGHOUT WHOLE OF
LAST NIGHT TERMINA TODAY WITH CAPTURE
: OF COMBLES BY THE Bk SH TROOPS.
rench Last Night Captured all of KC ourt and Penetrated
2 Combles Cemetery, According to 5 Statement Chief
of Staff of the Greek Army has Resign Says Athens Dis-
patch Spain Sends Note to Berlin Pro .ing Against Tor
, pedoing of Spanish Steamers by German Submarine
French Capture Eight Hundred Unwounded Prisoners on
Somme Front Forty-Seven Aerial Engagements Over
. Somme Yesterday, Five German Machines Being Brought
Down Last Night s Zeppelin Raid Over Northern Eng
; land Caused Death of Twenty-Nine Persons, Says London
'. Announcement.
lishcd In the Cagayan valley, the
center of the tobacco growing In
dustry of the Island. This is only
on of the many steps following the
dispatch of A. f). Pownrell, chief
clerk of the internal revenue bureau,
to the I'nited States, to embark on
an advertising campaign to boost the
sales of Philippine cigars in the
homeland.
The New Pool on West Side of Carter
County Will Add Many Millions to
Wealth of Ardmore.
SOLDIER BURIAL FOR ZEPPELIN DEAD.
SOME BRITISH PROTESTS
The Eritish today entered
mbles and are overcoming
e resistance of the Germans,
ter continuous fighting
roughout the whole of last
rht, London announces.
Continuing their offensive,
3 French last night captured
of Freigicout and penetrat
the Combles cemetery, ac
rding to Paris.
The French took eight hun
id unwounded prisoners on
) Somme and violent coun-
attacks by the Germans on
i Verdun front between Thi
mont Works and Fleury
re checked by the French
illery and rifle fire, the
tement adds.
S'orty-seven aerial engage
nts occurred over the
nme yesterday and five Ger
n machines were brought
vn, another fans statement
s.
Twenty-nine persons were
ed in last night's Zeppelin
d over the northern coun
i of England, it was officially
tounced in London today,
s is the second raid within
reek. Last night's official
ort said that probably six
ipelin's participated in the
I.
lerlin says, the successes
ieved by the Anglo-French
;he Somme and the capture
dllages near Pouchavesnes
t be recognized.
A?sian attacks in strong
e against the Austro-Ger-
is in (.lalicia tailed with
FOR GREATER
I
DIRECTORS OF THE CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE MET LAST NIGHT
AND DISCUSSED WAYS AND
MEANS OF DOING BIG THINGS
The directors of the Chamber of
Commerce met last night for the pur
pose of formulating plans for, greater
activity during the coming year. The
newly elected officers and directors
are going to make an effort to raise
sufficient finances conduct mat-
ters on a more extensive scale in the
future than in the past. There are
many things that Ardmore might se
cure if the combined business inter
est of every business man In the city
is put forth and the Chamber of Com
merce is going to see that harmony
and co-operation prevail in the future.
The meetine last niclit was eveeii. i "' 80Ie superpatrlotic Hritons, six
tive. and but Httle information was & njonrfffi SS.
given out, but one of the directors military honors, as the picture shows,
stated this morning that extensive "All that is asked that their obsequies
plans were discussed Tor the future slla" 1,0 Pili"- decent and obscure
and there was going to be a combined ! ""lL""l V.!?.. J"1
futu H "I'lii'i uut- fagi-uilll ) , emu
IN FACE OF
iO' iLi 1 ' TIJ ' '
O LAST HONORS TO FALLEN "ZEPPELIN'S MEN 0J I
10 LAST HONORS TO FALLEN ZEPPELIN S MEN 0
Respite the protests that were made one of the protestants, who cited the
effort to make ArdmoTo second to no
city in the state iu industrial growth.
One of the main thlnrs that the Cham
ber of Commerce will make an effort
for is ample gas for manufacturing
purposes. Millions of feet are avail-
ty losses, according to Eer- au,B ln ",0 Healdton field and they
The Rumanians have oc- want 11 P'ica l,ore- "'' be dis
tributed among manufacturers at
reasonable price.
number of Knirlish men. women nmt
children killed by Zeppelin bombs.
It was impossible to ascertain the
number of Ci rmans killed when the
Zeppelin was shot down by Lieuten
ant l.eefe Robinson. liritlsh aviator,
because many of the corpses were incinerated.
If MIL I E
ed the heights on both
s of Szurduk and Vulcan
ses in Transylvania, but all
cks against the passes have
d, Perlin adds,
de Bulgarian counter at
s on the western end of
(Macedonian front were re
ed by the French, who took
' prisoners, says a French
unt.
jtween Struma and Vardar,
artillery duels continue,
infantry actions have de-
ped in the territory held by
Serbians.
W GOES
T
idon, Sept. 26. General Con
ine Moschopoulos, chief of ataff
a Creek army, has resigned, ac
ig to a Reuter'a Athens dispatch.
TO CAST VDTE
PRESIDENT, ACCOMPANIED BY
HIS WIFE, LEFT LONG BRANCH
THIS MORNING FOR PRINCE
TON TO VOTE.
Irld, SepL 26. The Spanish gov- Long Branch, N. J., SepL 26 Pres.
nt has sent a note to Berlin ident Wilson left this morning for
rting energetically against thi Trlnceton to vote In the New Jersey
loing of the Spanish steamers by democratic primary. He was accom
man submarine. ipanled by Mrs. Wilson.
j u. . r. ,-,-..-,-, --,,-,,- ,r , ,., jje expects to return this afternoon
to keep an engagement with Samuel
Seabury. democratic nominee for gov
ernor of New York, and Vance Mc-Cormlck.
LEGISLATURE
GOVERNOR MEETS COMMITTEE
TO CONSIDER QUESTION OF
CALLING SPECIAL SESSION.
iniiim
I
REBEL LEADER IS SAID TO BE
HEADED IN DIRECTION OF AM
ERICAN FORCE.
TO DHL WITH STRIKE
Disorder Broke Out Again Today and
According to tha Police, Dozens of
Elevated Trains Were Bombarded
With Sticka and Stones.
laannanoaonnpn
a
WEATHER FORECAST O
Vew Orleans, La.. SepL 26. tt
The weather forecast for V
lahoma for tonight is un- a
tied with showers and 8
iter In the western and cen- tt
1 portion. tt
U
To Establish Testing Station
Manila. P. t., SepL 26 In line
with the insular government's tlan Three Demons were In hired hr tlvinr
New York. SepL 26. Governor
Whitman promised to meet this af
ternoon committee representing
members of the state legislature from
Manhattan and the Bronx to hear the
request for a special session of the
New York legislature to deal with
the situation resulting from the threat
of a general strike in sympathy with
the striking street car men.
Disorders broke out again today,
according to the police, and one dozen
elevated trains were bombarded with
sticks and stones thrown from roofs.
WAS AT SAN ANDREO
Villa Crossed Northwestern Railroad
at San Andres, Twenty five Miles
Southwest of Chihuahua City, Where
There Was a Skirmrsh.
to stimulate the production of better .glas,
tobacco In the Philippines, a tobacco , train
when windows of an elevated
were shattered Two
Pershing's Headquarters ln Mexico,
Sept. 2C. Villa is moving north to
ward the American expeditionary
force, according to reports received
here.
He U reported to have crossed the
Northwestern railroad at San Andres,
which is twenty-five mlies southwest
of Chihuahua City, where a slight skir
mish Is raid to have occurred be
tween the VHlistas and the Carranza
troops.
Means Another Railroad, New Pipe Line
For the Southern Field and Many
New Industries.
It was a touch of new life that was given to Ardmore yes
terday, when the announcement was made that an oil well
had been drilled in at Fox. All else was forgotten and those
who are playing the game, were busy after leases, and those
who are not investing in oil lands were talking of the changes
that would be made in Ardmore. The discovery of oil in this
area will bring another pipe line into the southern field. It
will widen the area here until many more investors will come.
It puts Ardmore where it will be the hub of a vast oil and gas
district. It means a new railroad for Ardmore and it means a
new pipe line for the southern fields.
The initial oil well in the Fox district which was reported
as being drilled in yesterday, has been drilled through the
sand. The top of the sand was reached at l'JGO feet, at 2,000
feet the drill went into lime. The production from the forty
feet of sand is estimated all the way from 75 to 300 barrels.
An estimate by a very conservative oil man puts the produc
tion at 150 barrels. The well is drilling deeper to test for other
sands.
Chas. W. Clay was at the well yesterday while it was drill
ing in the sand. lie saw the gravity test made which showed
a gravity of 31 placing the grade of oil a little better than
Healdton crude and not quite so good as Cushing crude. While
Mr. Clay was there, the production was estimated at from 200
to 250 barrels, with the drill 35 feet in the pay. It was mak
ing no gas. The derrick was painted clear to the top, show
ing that the oil had spouted out of the earth and ascended into
air to the height of the top of the derrick. There were some
thing like forty autos at the well at one time.
The Fox district has been watched rather closely now for
several years. Oil men from all over the state have been play
ing the field. Local people have been diligent in purchasing
leases, and if the area should prove to be a field as large as
Healdton, there will be as many fortunes made by local people
at Fox as wtyre made at Healdton. The Kicama Company went
in there at an early date and owns some good acreage. The Ki-ca-ma
took its name from Kimbrell, Carpenter, and Mathers,
all of whom are local people. The Plains Oil and Gas Com
pany has a large acreage in that district. It is made up ex
clusively of local people. If Fox makes a field of any size, the
Plains Company will make as much money as the Crystal made
at Healdton which will make it a two million dollar company.
Scores of individuals have acreage holdings there and much
of the wealth of the Fox field will find its way into the banks
of Carter county and will be used to make Ardmore a better
cily.
Two other wells are drilling in the Fox district nt this time.
They are the Franklin & Phillips well in 29-2-3 which recently
had a gas sand that made 31,000.000 feet of gas and is being
drilled deeper for an oil sand. The other drilling well is the
property of the Gypsy Oil Company on the Mattie Morris lease
in section 28-2-3, which was drilling yesterday in blue shale
at a depth of 1G30 feet. The Gypsy is also drilling a well to the
northwest a short distance in section 13-2-1. That well was
shut down yesterday at an aproximate depth of 2,000 feet.
Still on farther to the northwest, Prodie and others are drilling
in section 9-2-4. That well was shut down for water yesterday
at an approximate depth of 2,100 feet.
W. IJ. Johnson stated some weeks ago that if oil were de
veloped at Fox, that there would be a railroad from Ardmore
to that area. lie said the Santa Fe might take hold of the
proposition but if it did not, that there would be other people
who would construct the line.
B. A. Simpson made the remark recently that when oil was
found at Fox, that the Ardmoreite could announce that there
would be a fine office building put up in Ardmore. The gen
eral impression among the people is that the discovery of oil
at Fox will result in doubling the population of Ardmore with
in a very short time. Whether that is true or not, every cit
izen of this city is pleased with the growth of the town. The
people are coming here now faster than Ardmore is preparing
to take care of them. Two and three families are often found
living in one house, and unless the house building activity is
doubled, there will be many families living here in tents dur
ing the winter.
TEXAS BREAKS RECORD
FOR CATTLE DIPPINGS
i
dippings of cattle were performed un
der federal or state supervision. This
is an Increase of 35 vats and 15.000
dippings over the work accomplished
In that state during July. The legis
lature of Mississippi recently passed
a law requiring that tick eradication
The reports from the I shall be taken up by every county
that cattle dipping Is after January 1. The people of Mis-
being systematically carried out In alsslppl. however, are not delaying
this state ln a larger number of coun- their active campaign against the tick
ties than ever before. until their state law makes this com-
Mississippi holds second place for i P0'50 uponthem.
the number of cattle dippings In a I
carrying out both in July and August
more dippings to eradicate cattle tick
than have been performed by any
other state In a single month. The
U. S. department of agriculture's field
reports from Texas show for July
T60.S46 dippings and for August 740.
751 dippings under federal or state
supervision.
field Indicate
taaattanaaaatfqte
