HARRISBURG &M 530. TELEGRAPH
X' 99J BY CARRIERS (I CENTS A. WEEK.
O. L&O SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
LXXXV—
BRITISH SMASH WAY TO
COMBLES; FORCE GERMANS
BACK INTO OPEN FIELDS
Gen. Haig's Forces Battling Desperately to Get Full Pos
session of Town Very Valuable to Kaiser; French
Reach Cemetery South of Village and Capture All of
Fregicourt; Only Protection of Teutons Are Shallow
Trenches Hastily Dug Under Fire
ZEPPELINS IN NEW RAID ON
ENGLAND CAUSE DEATH OF 29
Six Aircraft Participated in Invasion; Berlin Admits Allied
Advance on Somme Front Over Six and One-Half
Miles, Including Combles Sector; Concedes Success
of Rumanians; Russians Lose in Galician Attacks;
Entente in Macedonia Campaign
British and French troops to-day reached the town of Combles
on the Somme front after having virtually pocketed the place in a
struggle of many weeks' duration and are fighting to gain complete
possession of it. Attacking from the north British troops have forced
their way into the place, London reports, and and are overcoming the
German resistance there.
On the south the French have reached the town's edge and have
penetrated the cemetery. In addition they have further closed the
small opening left in the Combles pockets by capturing all of the
village of Fregicourt, a mile to the east.
The Combles salient, doggedly maintained by the Germans, has
long been a serious hindrance to the allies, hampering them in their
offensive toward Bapaume and Peronne. Its elimination, however,
seemed imminent after yesterday's combined thrust by the Franco-
British forces which carried them to Morval on the one side, and
Fregicourt on the other, leaving as a line of retreat for the Germans
only a roadless gap a mile and a half in width, swept by the allied
guns.
Bombs dropped in last night's Zeppelin air raid on England,
carried out by some half dozen of these German aircraft, caused
the death of twenty-nine persons, it was officially announced in Lon
don to-day.
While the great battle on the Somme front was at its height
the Germans last night attacked the French lines at Verdun, driv
ing in between the Thiaumont work and Flcury east of the Meuse.
Paris to-day announced that the French guns were effective in check
ing the German assaults.
Combles, a town of some 2,000 popu
lation before the war, had been ren
dered of small strategic importance to
the Allies by their long continued en
circling movement. It has been of
notable value to the Germans, how
ever, because as long as they clung to
it the Franco-British freedom of ac
tion in pushing their offensive move
ments toward Bapaume and Peronne,
on either side of it, was hampered.
Turned into a strongly fortified po
sition by German defensive ingenuity,
it has persistently held fast like a rock
in the course of a turbulent stream
that has had to be blasted loose beforfe
the channel was fully opened up. This
process has only been accomplished by
long continued, severe and costly effort
on the part of the Allies.
Driving in from the south, the
French successfully swept by Harde
court, Maurepas, De Forest and finally
reached Fregicourt, a mile east of
Combles. More slowly, but none the
less surely, the British have pushed
their advance on the north of the Ger
man salient. Their struggles to reach
and hold Ginchy and GuiUemont were
expensive in time and men, but finally
the ground north of Combles and some
distance to the east was occupied put
ting the town in a pocket of which the
opening was constantly being nar
rowed by the drives of the entente
armies.
(Continued on Page 4]
THE WEATHER
Harrisburg nntl vlclnltri. Part
ly cloudy nnd viurmer to-night and
WcducNday.
Eaatrrn Pennsylvania. Partly
DverrHHt and warmer to-night and
Wednesday. l.entlc variable nlnUa
becoming south.
lllver
The lower portion of the North
branch and the upper portion ol
the main river will Hue allghtly.
All other atreama of the n.vatein
will fall ■ lowly or remain nearly
stationary. A stage of about XT
feet la Indicated (or Harrlaburg
Wednesday morning.
General Conditions
The pressure Is low over the
Plain* States nnil nlonjt the north
ern border with the principal de
p Tension over western Canada i It is
high southeast of the Inke region
and oer the Northern Pacific
States.
There tins been a general rise of
2 to 12 degree* In temperature over
nearly nil the country in the last
24 hours except n part of the I'a
elfle slope. New England, the Sua
quehannn valley and In a few other
widely separated localities where
falls of 2 to IB degrees are report
ed.. Heavy frosts occurred this
morning In the upper Nuxquehan
na valley with minimum tempera
ture 3S degrees at Scranton and 30
degrees at Blnghamton.
Temperaturei 8 a. at., no.
Sum Rises, 5,58 a. M.i Sets, .V 5.57
p. ni.
Moon i. New moon, September 27,
2.34 a. m.
River atage, 8. feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 67.
Lowest temperature, no.
Mean temperature. 58.
Normal temperature. 63.
* " '• - —- —' 1 in m
Both French and British Smash Their
Six Zeppelins in New Raid
on England Exact Toll
of Twenty-Nine Lives
l.ondon, Sept. 20.—Twenty-nine
persons were killed in last night's
Zeppelin raid, it was announced
officially to-day.
Ths Zeppelin raid of last night, the
second within the last week, was
made by several airships between
10.30 o'clock and midnight. They
crossed over the east and northeast
coasts and uropped bombs in the
northern counties. The official ac
count of the raid issued last night said
that probably six Zeppelins took part
in the attack.
British and Germans Fight
North of Somme in Open
Fields; Trenches Blasted
British Front in France, Sept 25.
via London, Sept. 26. —This has been
another great day for the Anglo-
[Continued on Page 4]
Six Drown When Ship
Sinks in Great Lakes
After Violent Storm
Oswego, N. Y., Sept. 26.—Six mem
bers of the crew of the steamer Rober
val of Ottawa, were drowned yester
day, it was learned to-day when three
members of the crew reached here
exhausted in a lifeboat.
The boat was partly filled with
water and the bow was cut off. They
said they had been afloat for nine
hours, having rowed to Oswego from
the scene of the wreck. The men
said their ship encountered a violent
storm and was overwhelmed by the
seas. She loaded with lumber
for the Diamond Match Company.
MILK CONFERENCE TO-MORROW
Will Discuss Proposed Shipping
Regulations
City health officials and milk deal
ers of Harrisburg will meet to-mor
row morning at 11 o'clock at the
Harrisburg Academy of Medicine, 319
North Second street, to discuss the
proposed regulations of the milk and
cream supply which is shipped to the
city.
Yesterday after Superintendent Wil
liam M. Condon, of the Harrisburg
hospital, reported at the meeting of
the Board of Managers, that the ty
phoid fever epidemic has cost that in
stitution m*>re than SI7OO. Fifty-six
oases are being treated there, necessi
tating the employment of additional
nurses.
FORTY- SEVEN AERIAL BATTLES
Paris, Sept. 26. —On the Somme
front yesterday there were forty-seven
aerial engagements. The war office
announced to-day that five German
aeroplanes were brought down and
others badly damaged.
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 26, 1916.
GOVERNOR BRUMBAUGH ABOUT TO START ON THIRD AGRICULTURAL TOUR
attßflS ' - f£|
Governor Brumbaugh Is shown in the foreground, Just before leaving: Market Square at 7.50 o'clock this morninc
;n his third agricultural tour. Secretary of Agriculture Charles E. Fatton, is standing in the rear to the right of the
rovernor.
BUSINESS MEN
ASKED TO BOOST
WHARTON SCHOOL
Urged to Encourage Young Men
and Women to Attend Uni
versity Extension
An appeal to the city's business men
to urge young men and women in their
employ to take advantage of the op
portunities afforded by the Harrisburg
branch of the University of Pennsylva
nia Wharton school of accounts ajid
finance was made public to-day by
Wendell P. Raine, secretary of the
Harrisburg branch, who is now regis
tering students for the coming school
year at the offices of the Chamber of
Commerce in the Kunkel building.
Mr. Raine points out that with the
training given by the university's busi
ness pchool, employes become better
money makers, and his appeal is based
not on sentimental reasons, but on a
pure dollars and cents basis. His ap
peal is as follows:
"Harrisburg is one of the four Penn
sylvania towns that enjoys the advan
tages of business training of a univer
sity standard. Three years ago Whar
ton school business courses were es
tablished by the University of Pennsyl
vania in Wilkes-Barre and Scranton;
two years ago in Reading and Harris
burg. Of the more than two hundred
(Continued on Page Three)
BISHOP CAN NOT
COME THURSDAY
Failure to Receive Papal Bulls
From Rome Holds Up
Installation
The Rt. Rev. Mgr. M. M. Hassett
rector of St. Patrick's Roman Catholic
Cathedral, this afternoon announced
that the coming of Bishop Philip R.
McDevitt, to Harrisburg, has been
indefinitely postponed.
It was learned only to-day that the
[Continued on Pasc 12]
Corporal and Seven Men
March Over Into Mexico;
Apology Made by U. S.
Washington, Sept. 26. The United
States has apologized to Mexico for
the act of a Texas cavalry corporal
and seven soldiers, who crossed the
border September 21, the war depart
ment announced.
In addition, the corporal will be
tried by court-martial. Colonel Joseph
A. Gaston, of the federal army, sta
tioned at Marfa, Tex., and command
ing the Big Bend district, has been
instructed by General Funston to
make an Investigation "as promptly
as possible" and to report to him what
action is taken.
The war department made public
the following telegram from Colonel
Bell to General Funston, reporting
the incident:
"Major Long, Huidosa, wires:
'Corporal Rogers, Troop B, Texas cav
alry charge patrol seven men, crossed
river Into Mexico September 21; this
without authority or reason and con
trary to standing orders. Patrol fired
at by about ten Mexicans; returned
this side. One American horse killed.
Have ordered written report and cor
poral tried and directed Major Ander
son to express regret to Colonel
HioJas.' "
GOVERNOR PARTY
OFF ON FARM TOUI
Nearly 200 Officials and Guests
in Forty Cars Will Make
Trip
Governor Brumbaugh and a party
numbering nearly 200 State officials
and guests left Harrisburg this morn
ing for the third and last of three
farm tours designed to bring the State
government and townspeople in gen
eral into closer touch with the agri
cultural conditions and farm life.
Stops were made at Lancaster, York,
Chambersburg, Fort Loudon and the
night will be spent at Bedford Springs,
the Governor remaining in York
[Continued on Page 9]
Pennsylvania Railroad
Begins Work on Great
New Freight Depot
Work on the construction of the
great new Pennsy freight station in
South Harrisburg was officially be
gun to-dav when a permit was granted
by City Building Inspector James H.
Grove for the erection of the big train
shed and warehouse just below Mul
berry street in Second.
The splendid r.cw depot buildings
will cost, according to the permit,
Just $325,000.
The freight station permit inelden
[Continued on Page 10]
REPUBLICANS OFF
FOR STATE RALLY
Harrisburg Bepublican Club
Prepares For Opening Recep
tion of Campaign
The Harrisburg Republican Club
last night elected the following dele
gates to the Pennsylvania State Lea
gue of Republican clubs, meeting in
York, to-day, to-morrow and Thurs
day: Senator E. E. Beidleman, City
Commissioner W. H. Lynch, City
Treasurer Harry P. Ovcs, former Rep
resentatives D. I>. Keister and Will
iam S. Tunis, Charles E. Pass, A. D.
Peace, I>. R. Metzger, William D.
Block. David Wilbert, C. C. Miller and
Charles K. Hess.
The club also decided to give a
rContinued on Pago 12]
"High Food Cost Due to
War"—Secretary Redfield
Washington, Sept. 26. The war is
blamed by Secretary of Commerce
Redfield as the chief factor in causing
a thirty-five per cent increase in the
cost of living.
"There is waste in war," Mr. Red
field said in an interview on present
economic conditions, "the men in the
trenches are using more shoes, more
hats and more clothing than they do
in normal times. The demand for
meat has grown because the millions
of men in the field demand more
meat than usual.
"There is shortage in the supply of
wheat in the United States, as the
supplies of Hungarla and Rumania
are not available and the Russian
wheat crop is choked up. This ac
counts for the flour Increase.
"The increased price movement Is
world-wide. Conditions everywhere
are abnormal. Half the world is at
war and the old order of things Is
upset. It is a very natural conse
quence that prices should advanc®."
SACRIFICES SELF
. TO SAVE OTHERS
HUMILIATION
Vice-President of Big Firm
Tells of Being Surprised in
Hotel With Blackmailer
Chicago, Sept. 2 6.—Announcing that
he had concluded to "accept personal
humiliation" to save other men and
women from being drawn into the
blackmailers' trap Edward R. West,
vice-president of the C. D. Gregg Tea
and Coffee Company of New York and
Chicago, admitted to-day that he Is
the "A. R. Wesley" who was surprised
in a New York hotel with "Alice Wil
liams" by representatives of the band
of Mann Act blackmailers recently ex
[Contlnued on Page 10]
RETURN'S IX ALREADY
Boston, Sept. 26. The Massa
chusetts record for early election re
turns was broken to-day by the town
of Carver which turned in Its report
to the press for the State primaries at
10:45 a. m. State Auditor Alonzo B.
Cook, who seeks renomination by the
Republicans, received four votes and
his opponent. Joseph H Brown three.
No Democratic ballot was cast. Thero
Is rivalry among the cape towns for
the distinction of being the first to
report on election day.
UNIVERSITY CLUB
FORMAL OPENING
Men Prominent in Business and
Professional Life Are
Speakers
The formal opening of the Univer
sity Club of Harrishurg took place at
the club rooms, Front and Market
streets, last evening. One hundred
and fifty club members met one an
other, many of them for the first time,
and the atmosphere of good-fellow
ship was present that augured well
for the future of Harrlsburg's young
est club. Many of the more promt
nent men of the city, in all depart
ments o? business and professional
life, were present and expressed them
selves as highly pleased with the plans
and possibilities of the organization.
Josiah H. Penniman, Vice-Provost
of the University of Pennsylvania, was
[Continued on Page 3]
British Hold Bremen Is
Assertion of Dr. M'Kenzie
Philadelphia, Pa., Sept. 26. The
Gorman merchant submarine Bremen,
with a $25,000,000 cargo, has been
captured by the British and Is being
held at Falmouth, according to Dr. R.
Talt McKenzie, director of physical
education at the University of Penn
sylvania, who arrived here yesterday
after serving sixteen months In the
medical corps of the British army.
Doctor McKenzie bases his assertion
on what he considers reliable infor
mation which he received shortly be
fore he sailed from England a little
more than a week ago. The method
and place of the capture are regarded
as military secrets In England, he
says, and for that reason the story
of the Bremen's fate has been kept
out of the British newspapers.
COUNCIL DELAYS
ACTION ON GROSS
FINANCE APPEAL
Park Commissioner Isn't Sure
About Some Items and Asked
For Postponement
BOWMAN RAISES QUESTION
Says Money Isn't Available;
$2,736.72 Asked to Finish
Outdoor Season
Because City Commissioner E. Z.
Gross didn't quite unaerstand some
of the items for which he asked ad
ditional park appropriation to carry
on the departmental operations to the
end of the year, he asked Council to
day, to wait another week to decide
whether or not he can have what he
needs.
Council cheerfully agreed and the
ordinance authorizing the turning
over of a balance of $2,736.72 of the
fines and forfeitures balances to the
park maintenance fund, was laid over
until next week.
Park Commissioner Gross then left
[Continued on Page 9]
Police Don't Believe Story
of Accidental Shooting
While out gunning this morning
near Summerdale, C. A. Horton, aged
16, of Enola, shot and painfully in
jured his companion, William White
man, also Enola.
The stories told about the shooting
to Enola authorities did not corres
pond, and Horton who left Harris
burg was arrested here and held on a
warrant from the Cumberland county
authorities. charging him with
felonious assault and battery.
Whiteman was hurried to "the office
of Dr. E. Carl Weirick at Enola. The
rifle shot entered the right side of the
face between the eye and ear, and
flattened against Whiteman's skull.
It is alleged by Enola authorities,
that the two boys were quarreling.
When it was learned that Horton left
for this city, Harrisburg police were
notified and Detective Murnane ar
rested the youth as he stepped from
a Valley Railways street car.
Horton will be given hearing this
evening before Justice of the Peace G.
H. Horning.
T - * " fc - w i
C Easton, Pa., Sept. 26.—Anto Luttenberger, a Bushkill |
I township farmer, has been arrested charged with the mur
■ der of his daughter. Grace, six years old. The day after the 1
I death of the child the parents said that she had been killed ~j
C i fall from a cherry tree. County authorities claim that '3
J'on the day*the child died the father kicked her, and then <
i rew her across the bedroom, her head striking the Wall. 1
with such force that the skull was fractured. A sensational "]
j i iture of the case was that Mrs. Luttenberger accused her I
: husband of the murder in a squire's office. There is another v jl
1 story that it was the mother who caused the child';; death I
\ j Iry striking her over the head with a rolling pin.
J I JCTS 810 MAJORITY IN FENNJ
] York, Sept. 26.—A. telegram of regret from Theodore,. J
\ I 1
I gates to the Pennsylvania State Lesgil® of Republic*
; "Please .I
warmest sympathy with the work being done 1
I and express my f"l3 expectation of an enormous majority
I Pennsylvania for Mr. Hughes." ,41
VILLA HEADED TOWARD PERSHING 1
Field Headquarters, Mexico, Sept. 26, via Radio to Co- j
lumbus, N. M.—Villa and his bandit command arc moving -I
noiihward toward the American expeditionary force, ac
cording to reports received to-day at Field Headquarters g
from a source believed reliable. Vflla is reported to have '?
crossed the Northwestern railroad at San Andres, twenty- \
iouthwesrt of Chihuahua City after
' , if'"* c.. I': 1 !:, : •< a:-J C;-',; n N wops. I
" CHARLES A. FORD DIES SUDDENLY
Harrisburg. Word was received this afternoon ,
<>A. C. Kushwa, 131 North Second street, of the death of- : |
I Charles A. Ford, former superintendent of transportation 1
1 I for the Pennsylvania Steel Company, at Steelton. M
Ford died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Hawley, 1
, Pa. Mr. Ford moved his family from Steekon just a few 1
weeks ago. He way. yardmaster of all yards on the Erie '
, Railroad system between New York City and Chicago. j
.
;i MARRIAGE LICENSE
Newton MrKamry, Steelton, and Marx Brown, Mlddletown.
Harrr Urojr Konn, Camp Hill, and Dora tCllaabatli Morsan, Enola. (
EHV-"
14 PAGES CITY EDITION
POLICE SEEKING
WOMAN 'RAFFLES'
TO SOLVE THEFTS
Officers Believe Robber Who
Steals Only Jewelry and Mil-,
linery Is Female
LEAVES CIGARS BEHIND
Apron Is Dropped as Intruders
Depart From Allison
Hill Home
Is there a woman 'TalTles" aiding
in the burglaries in the city during
the last few weeks?
This is the question confronting th
city police who have been making un
successful efforts to catch the thlev'es
who have entered dozens of homes in
Harrisburg during the last few
months.
Lately, however, the raiders havw
been passing up cigars, men's furnisl^
[Continued on Pace 12]
Olivet Calls Pastor
From Portland, Ore.
The congregation of Olivet Presby
terian church, Derry and Kittatinny
streets, by a unanimous vote have
called the Rev. Alfred L. Taxis, ol
Portland, Ore., as their pastor. The
result of the first ballot gave Mr. Taxis
ninety-four percent, majority, a rec
ord to be envied, which was imme
diately followed by an unanimous
call.
The Rev. Alfred L. Taxis, who is
comparatively a young man, is a grad
uate of Princeton Theological Senil
nary, with a degree of Bachelor ol
Arts. His work In Portland, Ora.,
has been very successful, tirst as a mis
sionary in the back woods district,
and later as pastor of the Anabel Pres
byterian church in Portland. H
comes very mighly recommended, both
as a forceful pulpit orator as well as
a successful organizer. The congre
gallon at Olivet are very fortunate ID
securing his services.
The Rev. Harvey B. Klaer of th"
Covenant church of this city moder.
ated the meeting at which J. W. Mc<
Donald and C. Frank Class were di
rected by the congregation to prose<
cute the call before the Carlisle Pres ?
bytery which is in session to-day ami
Wednesday at Mercersburg.
