THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
HAKRB. VKHMOXT. TUESDAY, SKPTEMHKH 20. 1910.
THICK. OXK CENT.
VOL. XX NO. 104.
ENTER
BRITISH
COMRLES AFTER
A HEAVY DRIVE
London Official Report Says They Are
Overcoming the Resistance of th6
Germans in the Beleaguered Place
French Have Reached the Combles
Cemetery
ONLY ONE NARROW
OUTLET FOR GERMANS
French Have Nearly Pocketed the Ger
mans in the Town by Capturing Fre
gicourt a Mile to the East Allies
Advanced On a 15 Mile Front
British and French troops to-day reached the town of Combles
on the Somme front, after having virtually pocketed the place in a
struggle of many weeks' duration, and are fighting to gain com
plete possession. Attacking from the north, the British troops
have forced their way into the place, London reports, and are over
coming German resistance there. On the south, the French have
reached the town's edge and penetrated the cemetery. In addi
tion, they have further closed the small opening left in the Combles
pocket by capturing all of the village of Fregicourt, a mile to the
east.
While the great battle on the Somme front was at its height, the
Germans last night attacked the French lines at erdun, driving in
between Thiaumont work and Fleury to the east of the Meuse.
Paris to-day announces that the French were effective in checking
the German assaults.
Combles, a town on the Somme of 2,000 population before the
war, had been rendered of small strategic importance to the allies
by a long-continued encircling movement. It has been of notable
value to the Germans, however, because as long as they clung to it
Franco-British freedom of action in pushing offensive movements
toward Bapaume and Peronne on either side of it was hampered.
Turned into a strongly fortified position by German ingenuity, it
has persistently held like a rock in the course of a turbulent stream
that had been blasted loose before the channel was fully opened up.
FEARING CONVICTION
ON ARSON CHARGE,
SHE SHOT HERSELF
Mrs. Ellen rhilipa, Who Wat to B
Tried in Chittenden County Court To
day for Alleged Anon, Fired Two
Shots from a Revolver.
Burlington. Sept. 28. -Mr. Kllrn I'hi!
i, who waa t.i lie trie.) in Chittenden
county court today on tho charge of
arson, ahot herself twit yenterday aft
criioon while at th house of Judon
(lurk in I'nderhill, when- she waa em
ployed aa housekeeper. Tim woman tol l
in her consciou moment after the about
insr that she did the. net because he
feared conviction in county court.
Tlin shooting took place in th Clark
wowUlicl mid Mr. Philip fell to thn
lloor, recovering aoniewhat later so that
aha waa able to enter the house, pass
thrutigh tho kitchen am! go to her bed
room, where who pot into bed. Thcra
aha wan found bv Robert (lark, the.
nine-year-old son of Judson Clark, on
bis return from school. The bedelothing
and pillow were aatnrated with blood by
thnt time.
Being perfectly cnneious, Mr. Philip
told th boy to run to the house of Fred
I'. Tillotaon next J.Kr and get Mra.
Tillotaon. Roth .Mr. and Mr. Tillotaon
and also John H. Mable. selectman, who
wan working nearby, ruahed to the Clark
house. Mr. Clark waa employed for the
day in another part oi me lown. in.
F."H. Hunt and A. I Fogg, the latter
tho town health officer, did what they
could arid later caued the woman's re
moval to the Fanny Allen hospital. Mra.
Philip aaid she fired two shot at her
head, one bullet enteritis the head just
back of the left ear and the other grazing
the top of her head. An antiquated 32
calibre revolver was used, and when the
weapon waa found in tho kitchen, where
the woman had dropped it in making her
unsteady progress from the woodshed to
the bedroom, it waa found to contain
two exploded cartridge.
Mr. Philips evidently planned to kill
herself because she wrote out the ad
dresses of lier son, Clayton Philip of j
Starksboro, and her daughter, Mr. Hen
ry Sweet of Bristol, and left the paper in
a conspicuous place on the kitchen table.
She has four brothers, Allert, George,
Stricter of Hoi ton.
i i ...... - . .
29 DEAD
IN RA D
BY AIR
The German Zeppelins Las
Night Made (he Second
Attack on England Within
a Week and Inflicted Many
Casualties in Northeast
em Section of England
SIX AIRSHIPS SAID TO
HAVE PARTICIPATED
Crossed the East and North
east Coasts and Dropped
Bombs in the Northern
Counties Between Hours
of 10:30 and Midnight
London, Sept. 26. -Twenty-nine per
sons were killed in Ust night's Zeppelin
raid, it was announced officially to-day.
The official statement says the Zeppe
lins made no attempt to approach Lon
don. The principal attack was aimed
against the industrial centers in the
north midlands, but the raiders were
and she did not care last evening to have driven 0ff by anti-aircraft ns in sev
them notified. She Is the widow Ol lien
rv Philips and t0 vcar of age.
Airs. Philins was accused of setting fire
to her barn in Wct IMton on December ; ported, out a numoer or small nouses ana
leral rases. No damage to factories or
works of military importance was re-
London, Sept. 26. The British have entered Combles on the
Somme front and are overcoming the resistance of the Germans,
the war office announced to-day.
Paris, Sept. 26. Continuing their offensive north of the Somme,
the French last night captured all of the village of Fregicourt and
penetrated the Combles cemetery.
BERLIN ADMITS LOSSES
ON THE WESTERN FRONT
Berlin, by wireless, Sept. 26. Successes were achieved by the
Anglo-French forces on the Somme front last night to the east of
Eaucourt and L'Abbye, north of Flers, says the official statement
to-day. The conquest of the villages on the line of Gaudecourt and
Bouchavesnez, the statement adds, must be recognized.
Russian troops yesterday made six successive attacks in strong
forces against Austro-German positions near Manajow in Galicia,
the statement says, but the attacks failed under the heaviest losses
for the Russians.
The Rumanian troops have again occupied the heights on both
sides of the Szurduk and Vulcan passes in Transylvania, the state
ment says. German troops repulsed all Rumanian attacks against
the passes but were withdrawn according to army orders, it de
clares.
7, 1015. It was alleged by the state that
at the time the fire was at its height,
Mrs. Philips was dressed and ready to
take the stage. It was charged that she
set the fire to get the insurance of ?700.
Last night notification was sent to the
witnesses in the case not to appear in
county court to-day.
cottages were wrecked or damaged.
PERSHING TO SUCCEED MILLS.
As Major-General, Not, However Affect
ing His Mexican Duties.
Washington, I). C, Sept. 26. Secre
tary Bilker announced late, yesterday
that the president would nominate Brig.
Gen. Pershing, commander of the Ameri
can expeditionary forces in Mexico to be
a major-general to fill the vacancy cre
ated bv the death of Major-General
Mills.
Colonels Kben Swift of the general
staff; Francis H. French of the 21st in
fantry; Kdwin St, John Greble of the 6th
field artillery, and Charles G. Treat of
the general staff, will become brigadier
generals, succeeding General Pershing,
and Granger Adams, Montgomery Mc
Comb and F. W. Sibley, who are to be
retired. General Pershing's promotion
does not affect his assignment as com
mander of tho expeditionary forces in
Mexico.
The president will send the nomina
tion to Congress next December.
The Zeppelin raid last night, the sec-
i ond within the last week, was made by
several airships between 10:30 o'clock
and midnight. They crossed over the
east and northeast coasts and dropped
bombs in tie northern counties. Sia air
ships are said to have participated.
FIVE GERMAN
AEROPLANES LOST
of Fregicourt, one mile northeast of Com
bles. In addition trenches near Fregi
court, in the vicinity of Bouchavesues
and to the south from the vicinity of the
canal Du Nord to the Somme were tak-
And Others Were Badly Damaged in 47
Aerial Engagements on the Somme
Front, Says Paris 0al
Report.
Paris, Sept.' 26. On the Somme front
yesterday there were 47 aerial engage
ments. The war office announced to-day
that live German aeroplanes were
brought down and others were badly
damaged.
YORK BEACH HAS FIRE.
The capture of Morval by the British
and of part of Fregicourt by the French
apparently sealed the fate of Combles,
which the Germans have solidly held for
weeks despite the violent attacks thrown tributed to the fact that there was only
aeainst it. The defenders of the vir- a lisrht breeze blowing.
tuallv surrounded town have left to them The fire originated in th
Whole Business Section Was Threatened
at One Time.
York Beach. Me., Sept. 26. Fire in the
heart of the business section here which
threatened to wipe out the entire resort,
broke out a little after 8 o'clock last
night, and completely destroyed the Ar
cade, theatre, a dwelling house and two
stores and damaged several other build
ings, causing a loss estimated at $25,000
to $40,000.
Firemen from Portsmouth, York Vil
lage, York Harbor and Ogunquit fought
valiantly for several hours and the fire
was under control shortly before mid
night. That the resort was saved is at-
TROOP TRAINS
WILL ARRIVE
THISJVENING
First Section Was Hauled
onto Vermont Territory at
North Bennington Early
This Afternoon, After the
Long Journey from Eagle
Pass
REACH BURLINGTON
AFTER 6 O'CLOCK
Col. Reeves' Intention Is to
Keep Men in the Railroad
Yard at Burlington and
Take Them to Fort Ethan
Allen on Wednesday
NORTH FIE LI) FAIR
GROUNDS BUSY
PLACE TO DAY
44th Annua! Fair Opened This Afternoon
and Will Continue to Thursday
Night Many Rare Horses
on Grounds.
NnrthfleM. tSrpt. 26. -The gtniind. of
the Dog Kner Valley Fair association
eie a busy place tine forenoon when
many people were gelling ready fr the
41th anniMl fair ot the m.o, mMou. rx
hiliita wei being placed and ull were
aigned for stock this morning. Fifteen
race ln,rc were on the grounds, and the
entries for the racing will clo-e to night.
The fair will run three dais, including
thj afternoon mid closing . Tlmr-day
night.
St. Allans, Sept. 26. The First Ver-
raont infantry, back from its long stay
at Eagle Pass, Texas, will arrive at Fort
Ethan Allen either to-night or to-mor
row morning. It is possible for the
trains to pull into the aiding at the fort
to-night, but unless Col, Reeves changes
his present plans the cars will be left
n the Burlington yard, where they are
xperted to arrive this evennig.
The first of the three sections reached
North Bennington at 2 o'clock this aft
ernoon and is expected to arrive in Bur-
ington shortly after 6 o clock. Hie rail
road is under orders not to move the
rains from Burlington to the fort after
I o'clock unless Col. Beeves directs. If
he does not, the men will pass the night
n their berths ami will be taken to the
ort earlv to-morrow morning.
Burlington Citiiens to Give Welcome.
Burlington, Sept. 26. The 1st Vermont
nfantrv is expected to arrive here at 6
o'clock to-night, and the citizens will give
n informal lereption.
MORE RIOTING
IN NEW YORK
BRITISH LOSSES SMALL
In
Comparison with the Results, Says
British Statement.
London, Sept. 26. The British official
report last night was as follows:
"South of the Ancre our troops at
tacked Monday and have been every
where successful. Enemy positions were
atomied on a front of about six miles oe
ween f Vim bios and Martinpuich to a
depth of more than a mile.
"The strongly fortified villages of Mor
val and I.esboeufs, together with several
lilies of trenches, have fallen into our
hands.
"The village of Morval stands on the
heights north of Combles and with its
subterranean quarries, trenches and wire
entanglements constituted a formidable
fortreVs. The possession of these vil
lages is of considerable military impor
tance and practically severs the enemy's
communication with Combles.
"A large number of prisoners, machine
guna and other war material were taken.
Heavy losses were inflicted on the enemy.
In comparison with the results, our
losses have been so far comparatively
email.
"On Sunday six enemy aeroplanes in
air flights and at least three others were
driven to the earth damaged. Three of
. our machines are missing."
SPAIN PROTESTS
TO GERMANY
Sends Note Finding Fault with Practice
of German Submarine ia Torpedo
ing Spanish Steamers,
Madrid, via Paris. Sept. 26. The Span-
protesting energetically against the tor
pedoing of Spanish steamers by German
submarines.
BULGARIANS LOST
IN COUNTER-ATTACKS
Assaults on Western End of Macedonian
Line Were Checked By the
French.
Paris, Sept. 26. On the western end
of the Macedonian front, to the east of
Fiorina, the Bulgarians la-st night made
violent counter attacks. To-day's official
announcement says:
"These, assaults were checked by the
French west of Honna. Russians and
F'rench made a combined attack and took
60 prisoners. Between the Struma and
Vardar rivers there was artillery light
ing, together with some skirmishing, es
pecially on the British front. Xo infan
try actions developed in the sector held
bv the Serbs.
for escape, only the valley, a mile in
width, running north-northeast and in
the traversing of which they must come
under the guns of the British and-French
respectively from Morval and the vicini
ty of Fregicourt.
400 GERMANS CAPTURED.
A SMASHING BLOW.
Was Delivered by British and French on
- 15 Mile Front.
London, Sept. 26. Attacks simulta
neously on an arc of 15 miles, running
from Martinpuich to the Somme, the
British and French yesterday delivered
another smashing bl w on the German
lines. The British drove in a wedge to
a depth of more than a mile and cap
tured the important strategic towns of
LasBoeufa and Morval, the Utter a scant
mile north of Combles.
To the French fell the town of Ean-
In the French Operations Monday, Says
Official Report.
Paris, Sept. 26. The French official re
port, last night was as follows:
"North of the Somme the battle was
renewed Monday with violence along the
Anglo-French front. The French infan
try, assuming the offensive about noon,
simultaneously attacked the German po
sitions at Combles and Rancourt and de
fenses held by the enemy from the latter
village as far as the S.mime.
"Northeast of Comblea we carried out
lines to the outskirts of Fregicourt ami
captured all the strongly organized
ground between that hamlet and Hill
148. The village of Rancourt also fell
into our power.
"East of the Bethune road we extend
ed our positions to a depth of about
one kilometer from the Combles road
to as far as Bouchavesnes, carried by as
sault a hill northeast of that village and
reached to the southeast of Hill 130.
Farther south we carried several sys
tems of trenches in the vicinity of the
Canal du Nord from the Bethune road
as far as the Somme.
"The number rf nnwounded prisoners
taken by ns and counted up to the pres
ent exceeds 4O0."
An assault was repelled by the French
east of Vaux-Chapitre wood at Verdun.
Arcade thea
tre, from an unknown cause, and was
discovered by Harley Ellis. Before help
arrived, flames had spread to the dwell
ing house occupied by Mrs. Samuel
Springer, who is the proprietor of the
Arcade theatre, and Mrs. Springer and
her daughter were forced to flee with
only the clothing they wore. A barber
shop owned by Ray Avery and a Jap
anese novelty store owned by T. Tsubay
ni oon were afire and in a little while
were a glowing mass of niins.
REWARDS PAID
RESIGNS FROM GREEK ARMY.
Gen. Moschopoulos, Chief of Staff, Said
to Have Quit.
London. Spt. 26. .eneral Constant ine
Moschopoulos. chief of etsff of the Gre-k
armv. has resigned, according to a t;eul-
For the Discovery of Mr. and Mrs. Den
nison. Ilixville Notch. X. H., Sept. 26. The
guides and woodsmen whose perseverance)
saved the lives of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
A. Dennison. win were loi-t in the thick
forests of the White mountains for
three days, divided the fruits of their
courage yesterday. Atty. Panic! II.
Coaklev of Boston, brother of Mrs, Pen-
nion. paid the men who found the couple
and assisted in getting them out of the
woods, a total of $2,100.
Earl Gould and Scott Copp, the two
lads who came on Mr. and Mrs. Pennison
lying in an abandoned shack on the
hanks of Head Piamond stream, received
$600 apiece, as did Thomas Tracy, man
ager of Brown farm. 12 miles from Dead
Diamond, who went into the woods with
his hitckhoard and brought the couple
back to civiliration.
One hundred dollars each was given to
Bert Hill. John Shallow and Edward Mc
Laughlin, the guides who went in to as- j
sNt in the rescue party. I
The former assistant district attorney
and hi w ife are apparently but little the I
wore for their experience to day. I
Stick and Stones Thrown at Elevated
Train and One Man is Charged
with Carrying Revolver.
New lork, tept. itt. lJisorder again
broke out during the early hours of to
ay in connection with the street rail-
v strike. According to tha police,
ozen elevated trama were tiomtmruea
ith sticks and stones thrown from roof
ps by strikers and svinpathuers.
hree persons w ere injured ' by gluss
lien the windows of a Third avenue
elevated train were shattered. Two ar
rests were made, one man being charged
ith carrving a revolver.
With labor leaders continuing their
fforts to bring about a general suspen
sion of work as an airl to tne striking
armen in this citv, members of the. legis
lature from the metropolis, at a meeting
late yesterday, decided to urge (overnor
Whitman to convene the legislature in
extraordinary session to deal with the
strike situation.
The governor arrived in the city last
night and it was expected that a com
mittee appointed by the legislators would
wait upon him to-day. The labor leaders
have set Wednesday as the time for a
general tie-up of the city s industries.
Nearly 40 per cent of the 800,000 union
workers' in New York and vicinity have
avowed their intention of quitting their
places, according to Hugh Frayne, or
ganizer of the American Federation of
Labor.
Discussion in labor circles not in sym
pathy with the plans of conference lead
ers, took the torm vesteruav oi lavor-
ing a 48-hour "demonstration" rather
than a general strike. If organized work
ers suspended operations for a short pe
riod, just to show their strength," it was
asserted, the way would be payed for a
settlement of the traction strike.
The first accident on a subway line
since the strike began, Sept. 6, occurred
yesterday. Thirteen persons were in
jured, two seriously in a rear-end col
lision at. the 207th street station on that
part of the subway system running on
an elevated structure above the street.
It was said that the motorman of the
rear train leaped from his pnst and al
to crash into the rear
FINE FAIR PLANNED.
By East Montpelier Grange for Sept.
30.
The annual V.t Montpelier grange
fair will he held Sept. MO, opening with a
grand parade vt teams, flout, autumn-
lilies, stock, pi'llie. horribles, etc., at 1'
a. m. The following are the commit te
in charge of the ariou departmen
Stock, 1'. A. Badger; luire, (ieorge If."
Clark; ponies, A. X. Stratton; parade,
I.. W. Sibley, Jason Baihy; horrible.
Guy W. Raymond, Merl Benjamin; poul
try. F. W. Strong; automobiles, C. P.
Dudley; fruit, H. Lee Teiupleton: ege-
table, 11. W. Vincent. Lyle luting;
canned goods. Mr. A. I. Green; fancy-
work. Mrs. L. W. Sibley. Mrs. L. C.
Hammett; antiques, Herbert Helton;
flow-era. Mr. F. W. Strong.
Stock judging contest under the super
vision of County Agent Abbott. Those
who plan to exhibit stock should notify
C. A. Badger of East Montpelier.
L. C. Hammett. Mrs. Marj- Vincent
and HcrlM-rt Helton are the committ"e
on children's exhibit.. Home-made candy
will be on sale and dinner will be served
at 2.5c a plate. The Marhfield band will
furniRh music and a large crowd is ex
pected, (ieorge McKnight, R. C. Collins
and Harold Chappell are the general com
m i t tee.
The following is the premium list:
Best display of stock by np cue owner;
best Jerey cow; hot Holstein cow;
bet Ayrshire cow; bet cow of any other
breed; best pair steers three years old
or over: best pair steers under three
years old; best bull one year old or over j
of any breed; best heiter one yoar old or
over of any breed; best bull calf of any
breed; best heifer calf of any breed.
TEAM OWNERS
WIN SUIT
Irvin J. Boyce Gets Verdict
of $G7 from Fred A.
Millan, Motorist
AND ARTHUR BARBER
FROM JACOB AARON
Fred Jewett Given Ver
di . i Suit Brought by
? Nellie H. Morse
GOV. GATES SPENT
$297 IN CANVASS
John E. Weeks Spent $330.85, Over Half
of Which Waa for Political Adver
tising Other Expense Ac
counts Filed.
Got. C. W. Gates spent in his caVnpaign
for nomination for United States senator
in the recent primary the sum of $2fl7,
according to his sworn statement which
was filed to-day in the local office of the
secretary of state. The statement, like
several others. ' was filed at Essex Junc
tion last week and has been forwarded.
Most of the money expended by Gov.
Gates went for postage.
Judge John E. Weeks, defeated for the
nomination for lieutenant governor,
spent .T10,.",. over half of which was
paid for polithiil advertising. Oscar C.
Miller, the Democratic nominee for the
United States senatorship, paid out two
cents; the expenses ot Porter H. Dale,
nominated for Congress fro:n the second
district, were if 10.-14, and Emmet B. Da-
lev of Bennington, Democratic nominee
for Congress, did not spend anything to
secure the nomination.
v,' thout the defendant being repre
c' ed in court in person or by counsel,
e cane of Irvine J. Bovce vs. Fred A.
.dillan of It.irre was tried yesterday aft
ernoon in Washington county court, the
plaintiff's witnesae were examined, and
a verdict returned for the plaintiff to
recover damages of $(". The case com
menced at .1 o'clock following the dis
posal of the M'rse-Jewett ca.e and went
to the jury shortly after 4 o'clock.
The plaintiff axked damages as the re
sult of a collision between his team and
the defendant' automobile in which he
asserted the defendant was as fault.
The accident occurred over a year ago
I near the three-mile linage, lielow Jlont
jpelier junction. It is understood that
'the defendant i out of the state, but
had been notified of the trial.
In the case of Nellie H. Morse, ex
ecutrix, v. Fred A. Jewett, a verdict for
the defendant to recover his costs was re
turned by the jury at 4 o'clock yesterday
afternoon,
Jacob Aaron, a former jitney driver,
the defendant in a suit brought by Ar-
Ithur Barber of Barre, was surrendered
j in court yesterday by his bondsman,
i Harris Yett, and being unable to secure
other bail was committed to jail. A
judgment for the plaintiff to recover
.17." was entered on the docket. Aaron
ran his jitney into a milk team owned
and. driven by Barber in Barre last
summer.
The case of Frank Duprey g. Charles
Duprey. general assumpsit, was entered
with the clerk to-day. The next case
fnr trial is that of Frank J. George vs.
Aia MeCulIough, involving $1200 as tho
result of the sale of timber land in
Fayston.
TAKEN TO COUNTY COURT.
LEFT HIS FAMILY.
And Went Away with Young Woman
Both Arrested.
North Fairfax, Sept. 2o Frank Tur
ner, jr., ot Kuuaiiu, who lias a wite and
four children, and .Miss Kuth Loolulge ot
North Clarendon, were arrested here yes
terday at the home of Mr. Turner's sis
ter, Mrs. Fred Cross, by Chief of Police
J. F. Mahoney of St. Albans at the re
quest of of Rutland officers. Turner is
30 years old and Miss loolidge is li.
They were taken to the Franklin coun
ty jail at St. Albans. No formal charge
has been made against them. Turner's
daughter, Florence, about six years old,
was with them.
The couple arrived at St. Albans Sat
iidnv evening and went to the home of
Turner's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Frank i
furner, sr., of Federal street. Sunday
they came here.
Cases Against Mrs. Gladys Brothers and
Alexander Shea.
Barre officers yesterday aided State's
Atty. F'. K. Gleason in rounding up a
man and woman from Montpelier who
are charged with adultery offenses, it be
ing alleged that the violations were com
mitted in this city Saturday. On a com
plaint made to the state's attorney, Con
stable George L. Morris last night arrest
ed Mrs. Gladys Brothers, whom he found
in Iona Bennett's house on River street.
The woman was locked up at police
headquarters and later in the evening the
other alleged principal in the case, Alex
ander Shea. ako of Montpelier, was ar
rested at the capital by Chief Sinclair
and brought to this city. According to
a complaint made by Mrs. Brothers' hus
band, his wife came to Barre Saturday
and was joined afterward by Shea, who
is a mill hand.
The Brothers woman was arraigned
first this morning. Before Magistrate H.
W. Scott she entered a plea of not guilty
and a similar plea was made by Shea,
when he appeared in court. Man and
woman were represented by J. Ward
Carver. Bail for each respondent was
fixed at $."i00 and had not been furnished
at noon. After the arraignments, an in
formation against each respondent was
filed by the state's attorney, and tho
cases translerrca to uasningron county
court.
RIGOROUS PRECAUTION.
To Prevent Infantile Paralysis Reaching
Morrisville.
Morrisvillc, Sept. 2(. A case of in
fantile paralysis having appeared in El
more, a meeting of the local board f
health of Morristown was held, with two
Turner told the officer that he niadc0f (t. Imal physicians besides the health
p his mind !-:o could live no longer with 'officer present, also several business men.
anil tne question oi closing ine tniwia
his wife, that he had determined to go
away and write nacK and tmu it sne
would "do differently" he would return.
If not, he said, he was going to try to
find work and send her money to live
on.
The story told bv the girl was to the
effect that she met Turner on the street
I in Rutland, that he told her he was going
IOWCI1 U1C iraill 1 imru iiuu ,r uni .... , . ... . .... ... , t
. . . ,: u- I HV. lllilL litici put- inn. mill ai , lie
OI ail empiV Irani rimmiui; ov "ic p. a- j -
tion. He was arrestee. J lie emasnea
cars caught tire, but the blaze was quick
ly extinguished. '
AUTO RAN OVER BANK
Killing One of Occupants, Mrs. 0. E.
Blackden of Presque Isle, Me.
Tresque Isle. Me., Sept. 26. Mrs. O. E.
Blackden. wife of the proprietor of the
Presque Isle house, was killed yesterday
near Woodstock, N. B., and Mr. Black
den was injured when an automobile in
which they were riding with two com
panions ran over an embankment.
The party returned here last night,
bringing the body of Mrs. Blackden.
34 NEW CASES
station and against his protests insisted
on going with him. She said she board
ed the train and that he was forced
to pay her fare on the care. She de
clared that she planned to return Tues
day or the next day, and that Turner
told her she must. She also said that
she was introduced to Turner by his
wife.
and other public places was thoroughly
discussed. The secretary of the state
board of health was consulted over the
telephone, and it was finally desided t')
close the churches and local theatorium,
but allow the schools to continue, all of
the five physicians of Morrisville to be
at the village schools each morning for
a erid of two week's to examine every
pupil with the understanding that thn
"i parent should have, the option ot keep
ing their children at home providing
that they confine them strictly to their
own premises, keeping them apart from
all other children; otherwise, that they
would be compelled to attend school or
be quarantined for a period of two
week.
FUNERAL OF W. H. N00NAN.
Of Infantile Paralysia Develop in Massa
chusetts.
He Was
WILSON GOES TO VOTE.
Princeton
Accompanied to
His Wife.
il coveriuncnt baa sent a note to Berlin court, two mile eas and the outskirts cr's de-jatch from Athena.
Iong ttratv-h. N. -. Sept. . Presi
dent Wilon left ber- tin mornin; fr
Prinn-ton to vote in the IVmcx-ratic pri-
"" acocmi' nte-i b,y Mrs. Wileun.
Rostnn. Sent. 2tf. Thirt v-four new
leases of infantile paralysis, including
(seven in Holyoke and five in this city,
jwere reported to the state department of
By j health to-day. making a. total of 3i1
leases this month.
Increase in New York Deaths.
Nw York. Sept. 2rt Twenty new
--e of infantile paralyse and I dths
were leprted to-daj.
Was Held at St. Monica's Church This
Morning.
Funeral services for William H. Xoon
an, a former resident of I'.arre. whose
death occurred in thicag Saturday
niurntnsr. were neia in i. .Monica
BODY FOUND IN BARN.
Martin Quinn Died of Apoplexy, the Au
topsy Revealed.
Far Haven. Sept. 2fi The body of
Martin Quinn. about li." year- old. was
found vesterdav in the barn of t harles
hm. li this morning at h' o'clock, the j Young-of Hampton. N- -. an autopsy
Rev. P. M. McKenna.
ofti- dielosing the fact that the man died of
pari-h priest,
eiatins- Th '
t ayhne, Henry Alexander, A. J. t.auth- j
rie. Oorge W. Gorman. ar.J Frank and I
V- , . ..r .v. .1 .
e.-ed. Over the M. A W. R. railroad ' member of his family .-mild be located
.1 7 u nV!o, W the bo.!v taken to there. Coroner t onners of Whiteha l
Quinn was a wanderer an.i as tar as
ould be learned had no near relatives.
i known at vest mmana our n
St. Johnsburv tVr burial. ia- csllcl and tne aiuopsy per-
In the funer.l party were the follow-j M med by Dr. Jo-lyn and Faulkenburg
in; people: Mr. and Mrs. P. A. oonsn. 'of that place.
Mrs. f.rpenter. Frank and Will . mi li, l.-ly was removed to tl.e under
Noonan. Sirs. Katrine Hannon. Mr. Staking i-tn -f Green Brothers in thi.
Mrr McDonald. Mr. n ! Mi-. A. 1. 1 ( n "here th fun.ri.1 will he held
Gantbrie. Mis. Kiirsl-rth t.TtiMn. Georgef Tudoy rterno.-n. Burial mill be ia
W. Gorman and Josi-- M. N1 n. LUmpum.
