- . , 'r' "
a.
i P I H hi!- :
I M I i ! ' rv ' i . -
V"
vcl 1 Lvr.L-r:o. i
PULAT10N 23,219
f.'CRiYICH, CONN., WEDNESDAY, JUNE H, 1916
TEN PAGES E0 COLUMNS
price two ce:;t:
ThD Bulletin's Circuhticn in Harwich is Dcubb That of Any Other Paper, end Its Tctal. Circulation is ths Largsst in Ccnnscticut in Proportion tD ths City's Population.
F '! "
' C f: '
s
. snows taws
In Both Volhynia and Galicia ths Muscovites Have
Made Fresh Advances
CAPTURE MORE PRISONERS AND WAR STORES
. t ' ' ,
In Galicia the Russians Are Pressing Forward , Toward the
Prulh River and the Bukowina Frontier, With Czerno
witz y Their Objective Numerous Austrian Fortified
Position Have Fallen Into the Hands of the Russians-
Austro-Hungarians, Reinforced by Germans, Are Hold
ing Back Attempts of Russians to Advance in the Di
rection of Lemberg, jhe Capital of Galicia Canadian
Troops in the Ypres Have Made a Notable Gain-
Italians Have Taken Strong Austrian Positions in the
Largarina Valley. -
In Volhynia ana Galicia the Rus
iana are keeping up their strong of
fensive against the Austro-Hungar-
' lane and Germans and on various sec
tors in both regions thep have made
fresh advances and captured addi
tional prisoners and war stores.
In Galicia the drive of the Russians
, has trough t them across the Dniester
river, where they have captured the
towns of Zale Szcxyky and Horodent
ka, whence they are pressing forward
toward the Truth river and the Buko
wina fronUer with Czernowlta their
' objective. Numerous Austrian forti
fied positions in this region have fall
en Into the hands of the Russians.
Reinforced by Germans.
Further north violent fighting: is
taking place around Tarnopol, where
the Austro-Hungarians, reinforced by
Germans, are holding - back the at
tempts of the Russians to advance in
the direction of Lemberg, capital of
Galicia. northeast of - Tarnopol, near
Voroblevka, positions have changed
hands repeatedly- In the -heavy- nght
lng. while east ef-Kozlov, which lies
southeast of Tarnopol, the capture of
a Russian advanced post Is reported
by Vienna. . - .
Austrian! Suffer Heavy Losses.
In yolhynia, northwest and west of
Lutsk, the Russians have driven out
the Austrlans near Rojitche and oc
cupied the town of -Torchin. while
west of , Kolkl, . north of Lutsk, the
Austrlans have again repulsed the
Russians, who were attempting to
cross the Styr river, inflicting heavy
losses on them. :
The diversion' of the Germans on
the northern, part of the front appar
ently has not yet assumed great pro
PENN. . RAILROAD ELEVATOR
BURNED, NEAR BALTIMORE
From Four to Ten Men Lost Their
Lives More Than 40 Injured.
Baltimore, Md., June 13. Pennsyl
vania Railroad elevator No. S, on the
harbor front at Canton, a suburb, was
burned tonight, with a loss of life
estimated at from four to ten men
and injuries to more than forty oth
ers. The , victims were mostly ele
vator employes and cargo trimmers.
Three of the Injured were in a critical
condition tonight.
Two steamships, the Wlllem Van
Driel Sr., a Dutch vessel,' and the
British steamer Welbeck Hall, . who
were loading grain at the elevator,
also were badly damaged by fire and
wreckage dropped upon them from
the elevator. -
The flames spread to an ore pier
next to the elevator, badly damaging
It Several strings of grain cars in
the elevator were burned.
While the fire Is thought to have
been caused by an -explosion of grain
dust, a theory was advanced that it
may have been caused by a bomb.
This theory will be Investigated, It
Was said.
The blast blew out the M-foot tow
er, or upper elevator and In an in
stant the whole building was ablaze.
Conservative estimates placed the
total loss at more than $2,000,000. Al
together about a million bushels of
wheat, oats, barley, rye and buck
wheat were destroyed.
Scores of men barely escaped with
their lives. Thirty-four grain hand
lers and stevedores who were caught
In the hold of the Welbeck HaU
fought their way to freedom over the
piles of grain. Gaining the deck of
the ship, they found their way to
shore cut off by the flames. Some of
them Jumped overboard and - were
picked up. Launches ran alongside
and took off the others. .
Two. gangs of grain handlers. Im
prisoned on the WUlem Van Driel, So.
for a time, made a dash across the
elevator wharf to safety, tout they
were showered with 'sparks, and burn
ing wood and only a, few escaped un
scathed. The charred bodies of two
men were found hi the hold of the
Wlllem Van Driel Br. tonight.
The number of known dead was in
creased to three by the finding of a
body in the wreckage of the elevator.
Nine men were un&ooounted top to
nUrht They were William Cowan
tahattner and Adam G. Schmidt,
cnamber of commerce inspector, and
six laborers.
ERNEST MARTIN HOPKINS '
PRESIDENT OF DARTMOUTH
To Fill Vaeanoy Caused by Resigna
tion of Ernes t Fox Niohole.
Boston, June "n. Th election ' at -
t.-mest Martin Hopkins ofNewton as
president of Dartmouth; College, to fill
the vacancy caused by 'the resignation
of Erant Fox Nichols was announced
tonle-ht by Homer 13. Keyes, business
director cf the college. Mr. Hopkins
Is a rraduste of Iartmovrt and was
formerly Its secretary.
portions. The latest' Petrograd offi
cial communication : merely reports
bombardments of Russian positions at
many points, while Berlin only re
cords the defeat of a Russian cavalry
brigade southeast of Jacobstadt and
an Increase In tne Russian artillery
fire in the region of Baronvichi.
Canadian Troops Make a Gain.'
The Canadian troops ,ln the region
of Y4res have made a1 notable Bain
over the Germans, retaking from them
southeast of Zillebeke, In a "gallant
and successful assault" more than 1
600 yards of former British positions
which the Germans captured recently.
The regained ground was held de
spite a. vigorous shelling by the Ger
mans. The Germans suffered heavy
casualties in the nerhtlnsr.
After driving their wedge farther
Into the French line northeast of Ver
dun " Monday, the Germans on Tues
day did not follow up their advantage
with infantry attacks. Only Inter
ml t tent bombardments arte ' taking
place around Verdun. ! ,'-.'
Italians Ceptur0 Austrian Positions
In the Lagarina valley of the Aus-tro-Itallan
theatre the Italians have
taken, by assault .strong Austrian po
sitions and repulsed heavy counter
attacks launched by "the Austrlans. On
the Posina-Astico front the Austrlans
penetrated Molisinl - but were later
driven out and in the Bugna valley
they met with repulse, with consider
able losses, in an attempt to advance
east of the Mazo Torrent.
Slight successes for their respective
sides in Asia Minor ore reported by
the Russian and Turkish war offices.
No important changes in the situation
in this region have occurred, how
ever. .
HAD CONSULTATION WITH
SIR ROGER CASEMENT
Michael Francis Doyle Pleased With
Nature of Defense.
London, June 13", 8.10 p. -m. After a
long consultation today with Sir Ro
ger Casement in the Tower of Lon
don, Michael Francis Doyle of Phila
delphia, who has been retained to as
sist the baronet at his coming trial
on the charge of high treason, de
clared this afternoon that he was
highly pleased at the nature of thi
evidence for the baronet's defense and
was optimistic as to the result of the
trial.
Although local opinion Is virtuallv
unanimous that Attorney Doyle wiil
have no - legal status before the court
and-will be allowed only to consult
With counsel outside, the lawyer ' is
hopeful, in view of the courtesies that
already have been extended him. thit
he may have a solicitor's - privilege
within the court.
Before the beginning of the trial on
June 28 Attorney Doyle is going to
Ireland to Btudy the case from the
start
ARCHIVES OF MASS. . TECH.
ARE TRANSFERRED
Fireworks Brought the Attending
Ceremonies to a Close.
'Boston. June 13. An elaborately
decorated bucentaur followed the path
blazed by searchlights across the
Charles River Basin tonight bearing
President Richard C. MacLaurin and
the archives of the Massachusetts In
stitute of Technology from the old
quarters on the Boston shore to the
institute's new group of buildings on
the Cambridge bank.
The arrival of the barge on the
Cambridge side was the signal for the
beginning of a pageant and masque,
the crowning1 scenic attraction of the
alumni celebration held in connection
with the dedication exercises. Seated
In the Court of Honor the alumni and
their guests watched a thousand stu
dents delineate man's prograss in con
quering the forces .of nature. Fire
works Drought the events of the ev
ening to a dose. .
DROWNED IN CANAL OF . ,
HOtjSATONIC POWER CO.
Wmiam Sembury Fell Into the Water
While Repairing a Bridge.
-- New Milford, Conn, June IS. Will
iam Beabury, 85 years old, was drown
ed In the canal of the Housatonio
Power Co today. He was repairing a
bridge when be lost his hold and fell
into the water. He was unable to
swim. The water from the canal was
withdran and the body recovered. He
leaves bis wife and two children.
Movements at Steamships,
London, June 10. flailed, steamer
Montreal Montreal.
aiareeiiles, June 8. Arrived, steam
r Roma, New York,
Falmouth, June IS. Sailed, Bteamer
tfoord&m (from Rotterdam), New York,
Cabted Paragraphs
Submarine Sank Hampshire.
London. June 14, German newspa
pers, according to- a Berlin despatch to
the Morning Uost, state that the Brit
ish crusier Hampshire was sunk by a
German submarine. It-, was on the
Hampshire that Kitchener and staff
were voyaging to Russia.
W. MURRAY CRANE IN
CONFERENCE WITH HUGHES
Chairman of Committee Which Will
Select Campaign Manager.
New York, June 18. W. Murray
Crane, chairman of the sub-committee
of the republican national com
mittee, which will select the chair
man of the national committee, ar
rived here tonight with a conference
with Mr. Hughes.
, Mr. Crane remained - In conference
with Mr. Hughes until 11.80 o'clock.
When he left he admitted that almost
all phases of the campaign had ; been
discussed, but declined to disclose the
nature of his talk. . f , t
Full authority to select the, chair
man of the national committee who
will manage the campaign, Mr. Crane
admitted, ia vested In the, sub-committee
of which he is chairman. ,
It is ' understood there are , several
candidates for the national chairman
ship, but Mr. Crane refused tonight to
discuss that question. The sub-committee
probably will meet some time
next week, Mr. Crane said, to "con
sider the election - of ' the national
chairman. -
EQUAL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
ENDORSED BY DANIELS
Suffragists Encouraged in Their Quest
... . in St. Louis.
St. Louis, Mo., June 13. Joy filled
the suffrage camps here, tonight be
cause today Secretary of the Navy
Daniels publicly endorsed the equal
rights movement; and on every hand
suffragists declared they believed the
democratic platform will favor , their
cause.
The secretary made it plain that he
spoke only as an individual bnt sul
fragists believed his words may have
influence with the resolutions commit
tee when it passes on the proposed
suffrage plank of the .platform.
T believe," Mr. Daniels said, "thst
woman should have equal rights wirh
men.- In so far as I can help you, -s
an individual I will. I am not speak
ing for anyone except myself, how
ever, and I am not a delegate to the
convention, so I cannol consistently
take up the fight for you here. But I
am in hearty accord with you and
Wish -you the greatest success."'
K WRECKING CREW
SENT TO PUERTO PLATA
To Determine Best Method of Repair-
. Ing .the Destroyer Terry, ;
Washington, JuneJ-iS-A wrecking
crew has been sent, to -Puerto Plato,
Santo Domingo, to determine the best
method of repairing the - destroyer
Terry, which recently went aground
there and was more seriously damaged
than at nrst supposed. Despatches to
the navy department today said the
vessel's starboard side struck a reef
and was badly smashed. The destroyer
is in the mud with her .decks, half
awash.
SH ELTON PAPER MILL .
DESTROYED BY FIRE
Blaze Was Spectacular and Attracted
a Large Crowd Loss $10,000. ..
Shelton, Conn.. June13. Fire of un
certain origin tonight (practically de
stroyed the old mill of the, Derby Pa
per company, causing a loss estimated
at between 310,000 and 315,000. The
building was used by W. F. Driscoll
for his wire pulling plant. A vat of
acid exploded during the progress of
the fire, but no one was iniured. The
blaze was spectacular and attracted a
great crowd.
HALF A MILLION FOR ,
; ' PLATTSBURGH CAMP
Included in the Army Appropriation
Bill, According to Present Plans.
- Washington." June 13. The citizens
encampments, i including that at
flattsburgh, win get 5500,000 Jn the
$l7,000,OOO army appropriation bill,
according to present plans. The house
military committee will finally pass on
the bill tomorrow probably by putting
this amount in the bill instead of
the $4,000,000 asked for by those -active
in the encampments and the $1,
000,000 proposed by the war depart
ment. PRESIDENT WILSON
RETURNS TO WASHINGTON
Immediately Got In Touch ,W!fc Pre
Convention Developments.
Washington, ' June 13. President
Wilson returned here at 10 o'clock to
night from West Point, where he
spoke to the graduates of the military
academy this morning. He was driven
immediately to the White House with
Mrs. Wilson and there got in touch
with pre-convention developments In
St. Louis. -
'.. -, OBITUARY. ' -
Mr. Katharine Farrell.
South Norwalk, Conn, June 18.
Mrs. Katharine ' Farrell, mother of
James A. Farrell, president of the
United States Steel company, died
suddenly tonight at tier summer home
at Belle Island, near here. She was 80
years old and had been In failing
health for some time.
As a result of her death, it was de-
cided to postpone the wedding here
tomorrow of Miss Mary Theresa Far
rell, daughter of Mr. Farrell. to Joseph
B. Murray of Brooklyn, N. T. Nearlly
a thousand invitations had been ex
tended. 1 In addition to James A. Farrell. an.
Other aon, WBlIam H. Farrell, of
ena gepon, ana a, aaug-nrer, KUzabeth,
survive.'..-,. -. U
C. A. C Alumni Officers. -
Storrs, Conn., June 18. The - Con
necticut Agricultural College . Alumni
Association ,at its annua reunion to
day, elected the following officers:
President, Victor B5. Luohinl, Meridenj
vice presidents, Thomas H, Desmond,
Hartford! M. B. Pierpont, Watertown:
Stephen M Crowell, Mlddletown:
Mrs. Sherman Eddy, Avon secretary,
H. J, B, Twing, Hartford! treasurer,
Charles A. Wheelock, Mansfield. - n
Casualties Among Canadians. '
Ottawa, Ont June 13-Anothep long
urn. or casualties among uie vanaaian
Overseas contingent was issued by the
militia department. It contains tfO
names, ef whom 15 were. Americana,
Hughes' Policy is
Purely American
DEFINES ATTITUDE TOWARD
GERMAN-AMERICAN SUPPORT. :
UNDILUTED PATRIOTISM
Republican Presidential Nominee Had
a Busy Day Former Progressiva
Leaders Pledge : Their Allegiance
Oscar Straus Sends Telegram.
New York. June IS. Charles R.
Hughes today defined his attitude to
ward German-American support as
one of "undiluted Americanism." In
the first statement, Issued since his
acceptance of the republican nomina
tion for president:., . .
Undiluted Americanism. ' '
"I stated my oositlon verv fclearly
in my telegram to the convention. My
attitude is one of undiluted Ameri
canism and anybody, that supports me
is supporting an out and out Ameri
can and an out and out American pol
icy, absolutely nothing else."
une nominee s day, a busy one. was
devoted almost exclusively to receiv-
THE FLAG'S
June I4trj, 1916
. ' - - .
I am the flag.
I am Old Glory! - So named by two million freeman who. carried me'
to victory. . . . ; .
' I stand for the) sovereignty of a free people.
Under me five million slaves were made free, and the freedom of a
hundred million people is made secure.
- -Tyrants look upon me with scorn, but freemen look upon me with
love, and the oppressed of every nation look upon me with hope.
I have been defended and cheered by freemen, the soldier and the
slave. - - - - - . -
I stand for democracy For the greatest good of the greatest num
ber of God's children. ;.
As the symbol of all that is holy
valor through rivers of blood.
" Always for peace except' when assailed; but for preparedness my de
fenders have failed. . " - ,
" I stand for freedom! Freedom as old as the glory of God.
The brave sons who followed, me through a baptism of blood, in
their loyalty and love called me "Old Glory."
I am the banner of freedom! . ,
I am the flag of your country. '
ing callers. " His visitors were more
numerous than yesterday.- There .were
so many of them at one time that a
line was-formed and they filed past
to shake hands and chat for a mo
ment Instead of waiting to be receiv
ed alone. Several progressive leaders
and republican supporters of Colonel
Roosevelt were among them.
Pledges of Support. ' -
Everett Colby of New Jersey, who
placed John M. Parker in nomination
for the vice ' presidency at the pro
gressive convention, and Theodore
Douglas Robinson, nephew of Colonel
Roosevelt and . a . former progressive
leader in New York, called during Mr.
Hughes' absence at . luncheon. They
left word that they would return in a
day or so to deliver In person their
pledges of support. 'Oscar S. Straus
sent a telegram from Cleveland pledg
ing support ana roilowed in person
later to congratulate the nominee and
reiterate his pledge.
Republican Leaders Among Visitors.
Republican leaders who saw Mr.
Hughes, Included Former Governor
B. B. Odell of New York, William H.
Crocker and M. H. De Young of San
Francisco;-Dr. Nicholas Murray But
ler, who placed Elihu Root in nomina
tion at Chicago, spent nearly an hour
conferring with Mr. Hughes. Henry
Clews, the New York banker, and
Frank A. Vanderlip, president of the
National City bank . of New York,
made brief visits. - .'
Suffrage leaders " sought" vainly to
obtain the nominee's views as to their
cause. Miss Lucy Burns and Mrs.
Charles A. Beard tried unsuccessfully
to -see him. Mrs Laura Brysk, chair
man of the Woman's Republican Com
mittee of New York, had a two min
ute 'talk with him during which he
said he probably would make known
his views on suffrage in . his formal
speech of acceptance. .-'
Formal " Notification; Within a Few
Day. '
x The data of bis formal notification
of nomination may be settled defi
nitely within a few days, as word was
received tonight at headquarters that
the sub-committee from the national
committee might reach here tomorrow
to confer - with him. Mr. Hughes'
present plan 1b to receive the com
mittee before ha leaves next Monday
to attend a class reunion and the com
mencement exercises at Brown Uni
versity, Providence, and then . return
to New York,- Soon thereafter he will
decide on the location of his summer
home, - - '"
Whitman to Call This Week.
Governor Whitman of New - York,
wno toon a leading part tn tne pre
convention fight ; for Hughos and
placed him in nomination at Chlcaso,
probably will visit him during the
week, it was said. -
Reply to Carranza
, to be Withheld
UNTIL AFTER THE ST. LOUIS
CONVENTION.
ADMINISTRATION v SAYS
The Rapid Spread of Anti-American
Propaganda- in Northern Mexico
May Cause Other Action Than That
. Now Contemplated.
- Washington, June , li. Unless the
increasing seriousness of conditions in
Mexico forces action; despatch of the
reply to General Carranza's demand
for withdrawal of- American troops
probably will be delayed until after
the St. . Louis convention because the
administration desires to avoid any
drastic , step when it might appear to
be prompted by political influences.
. Spread of Anti-American Feeling -
Secretary Lansing and his advisors
are said to have given careful consid
eration to the possibility that the ad
ministration might be charged with
playing politics In dealing . with
BIRTHDAY
or good
have ' been carried by
the problem. The rapid growth of anti
American propaganda in northern Mex
ico, nowever, coupled with increasingly
grave -economic conditions, may take
tne situation out oi tnetr bands.
No official would venture a nredic
tion tonight as to what might be ex
pected in the immediate , future. . In
common with some consuls in Mexico,
tney peiieve -any eventuality is pos
sible -with .agitators workinz on the
feelings of a people -already distressed
by the fruits of prolonged disorder.
It was stated positively that the
Washington government was consider
ing no aggressive action to be taken
of Its own motion, but - stood ready
to act should assaults on Americans
or "an attack on General Pershing's
rorces iorce tne issue.
8harp Response to the Carranza Not.
-A. sharp rejoinder Is being creDar-
ed to the Carranza note. It will repeat
the determination of President Wilson
to keep American troops in Mexico un
til the Carranza forces have shown
their ability -and intention to properly
police the: border states It is also to
rebuke, the de facto government for
the suggesions and statements in its
note Questioning the good faith of the
Washington administration. Some of
ficials regard parts of the note as in
sulting to a degree not to be tolerated,
and if their active advice is followed.
its autnor will be called to sharp ac
count.
Secretary Lansing has bad before
him a mass of data, dealing with the
assertions of fact set up by the Mex
ican note.' He expects to be able to
refute most of these statements and
the daily crop of messages from Mex
ico telling of new disturbances will
supply additional evidence that .the
de facto government does not in fact
exercise the control it claims over the
border states. - -
Pending the sending - of the reply,
steps have been in progress some days
toward meeting any emergency that
may arise. Conferences between state
and navy- department officials have re
suited in the fomulation of definite
plans for- the removal of Americans
who would gather in Mexican ports
should -a serious ' outbreak of anti
American feeling force them to llee,
or should there be a clash between
Amiican and Mexican troops. It is
known, too, that the possibility of
calling but more state militia to pro
tect the border towns has . been . the
subject of renewed discussion among
omeiadL - - -
The motives behind the antl-Amer!-oan
propoganda and the precise atti
tude of General C:arranza toward, the
agitation both are subjects om Specu
lation , and many officials are
convinced - that the de facto govern
ment ia tottering and , think Carranra
may have sent his , belligerent note
(Continued on Page Five)
: Condensed Telegrams :
Gov. Haltnmh tmf 4ti r.n a
visit to Massachusetts. He will return
today..
Two more battalion of Jann
troops have been ordered to Peking and
11CUCBJJU. ' - - '. ' , ,
May production of the Utah Copper
Co. is officially estimated at 15,904,000
pounds. - , - . ,
Acton Davies, former New York dra
matic critic,- died in Lakeview hospi
tal, Chicago. -,. ; . . '
Shipments of fresh and cured meats
from Chicago last week amounted to
50,132,000 pounds. . 7
A membership to the New Orleans
cotton exchange was sold for $5,950,
the highest price so far.
The Swedish steamer Joy was sunk
off Falsterbi fcy a mine. Two women
and five men were drowned.
Consideration of the fortifications ap
propriation bill, carrying 321,997,050,
was started uy tne nousQ.
The Prairie Pipe Line Co. declared a
quarterly dividend of $5 a share and an
extra dividend of 35 a share.
Dr. Ralph W. Thompson, foreign sec
retary of tlie London Missionary so
ciety since IS 81, died in London. ,
The 31st annual meetino of the Na
tional Editorial association will be held
at mew York from June 19 to 23.
Seventy-five : thousand people wiil
march with President Wilson today in
Washington's preparedness parade.
Thomas Nelson Page, American am
bassador to Italy, who is in Washing
ton on leave, conferred with President
Wilson.
The attentat ta eonatruffi a atam
road spur track in Bridgeport has
struck a snag beiore the utilities com
mission. ,
Mayor- Anthony Sunderland has left
Danbury for Ithaca, N Y where is to
study aviation at the Thomas School
of flying. i
The supreme court ordered a reargu
ment of tl:e minimum wage law which
has been pending in the court for sev
eral aays. i
Seymour G. Best, metal polish man.
ufacturer of Long Island City, com
mitted suicide at his home at Bay
side, L. L
National aiuf afrat. o.l.h;.. r ,T,.
-ivii war attended the golden jubilee
encampment or tne Ohio t. A. R.. at
Fifteen members of the crew of tha
Tfdrweglan steamer Bur, sunk by either
a mine or a torpedo, arrived at Ymui-
aen, Holland. - -. . . , . ;
King Victor Emmanuel of Italv con
f erred with the leaders of the various
parties regarding the formation of
new caDinet. -
Two persons were iniured when two
jitney . 'buses operating between Long
Branch and Red Bank, N. J, collided
at ea tsanic
Fifteen . thousand doctors attended
Uie opening of the- 7th annual conven
tion of, the American Medical associa
tion at ..Detroit.
The message of Charles E. Huahea.
accepting the republican presidential
nomination, was ordered printed in the
congressional Record.
the National City Bank of New York
of the closing of a loan of $50,000,000
to tne xtussian government.
Fourteen eloakmakers were arrested
in New York city in the largest picket
Ing demonstration since the beginning
oi tne garment workers' strike.
' A nartv ef American rfuammm floolno
Mexican soil are reported to have
reached General Pershing's base at
Namiqulpa on their way to the border.
Private Lee Saunders of the Twelfth
cavalry was wounded in the head and
legs vtien a patrol he was with was
nred on by two Mexicans near Hachlta,
. do. .
The American steamer City of Sa
vannah, from Calcutta and Colombo for
Boston and New York, beached on the
African coast while an re, has been re-
noateo.
The new superdreadnaught Penney!
vanla, the most powerful battleship
afloat, was delivered to the United
States navy officers at the Norfolk
navy yard. -
Kansas City will rank third among
the big milling centers of the United
States when the new .2,400 barrel plant
neing erected there by the Midland Co.
is completed.
- Three hundred additional policemen
went to ton waoswortn ror a two
weeks' course in military tralnine. dls
placing the first squad, which has been
arming ror is aays.
The British treasury announced that
tne additional two shilling tax upon ee
curities K is willing to purchase an
plies only to income assessable under
tfie British Income tax. -
A constitutional amendment to dls
qualify, federal judges from holding
any-elective office for -at least- two
years after leaving the bench was in
troduced by Senator Thomas. -
Twe men were killed, three seriously
injured and a score nnrt wnen New
York Central passenger train No. 1L
more than, two hours late in a fog. ran
into a crowd of zoo workmen at Cleve
land.
' A three-ten motor" track, the tron-
erty of the New York National guard,
wa wrecked when it crashed Into the
bridge spanning the Ftehklll creek at
iirinkeiiior, N. , x. Tne bridge col
lapsed. . -. - . . i
Bringing the body of one seaman and
a lifeboat or tne American - steamer
Roanoke, which foundered - 100 miles
south of San Francisco in May, the
steamer City of Para agrlved at Pan
ama from San Francisco.
While playing at her home In New
Haven Virginia d "Felice, three years
old, found some pills which she
thought was candy, ate ten of them
and died half an hour later In her
mother's arms. The pills contained
a slight quantity of poison.
DEpCRATIC COIMTIOiI IS FCIEL
Program for Nominations and the Platform Iks Ap-
: parently Been
BAKEFf ARRIVES U ST.
Vice Presidential Boomers Faded Away When Told That
President Wilson Desired Mr. Marshall Again as Ills
Running Mate President Wilson's Own Draft of Plat
form Will be Presented by Secretary of War Baker to
. Senator Stone of Missouri, Who Will be Chairman cf
the Resolutions CommitteeHomer S. Cumrrnngs in ths
List From Which a Campaign Manager is to be Selected
--Convention Opens at Noon Today. ,
St. Louis, June IS. Arrival here to
night of Secretary -of War Newton- D.
Baker, President . Wilson's personal
representative, bearing "the president's
own" draft of the platform and news
that he desires the renomlnatlon of
Vice President. Marshall," firmly estab
liibed the harmony programme for the
democratic national convention which
opens tomorrow. " . '
Programme Agreed Upon.
When Chairman McCombs of the
democratic national committee let his
gavel sound at noon tomorrow leaders
expect all pre-convention discords to
be blended in one harmonious note. A
programme upon both the presidential
and vice presidential nomination and
the platform as well has apparently
been agreed upon by the leaders.
.Vice Presidential Boomers Wilt.
Vice - presidential' boomers, around
which most of the pre-convention
fights have centered, wilted away to
night under the influence of the per
sonal message from tlie White tiouse
that the president desired Mr. (Marshall
again as his running mate.
Secretary Baker also effectually dis
posed of the vice presidential boom In
bis own behalf which had attained
prominence In the belief in some quar
ters mat Mr. Marshall lacked genuine
administration support. - -
President for Renomination of Marshall
"The president is for the renomlna
tlon. of -Vice- President -Marshall.- -was
the emphatic statement tonight of Sec
retary Uakcr.
So far as I know, aie president has
not considered any other nominee. As
to the movement started in my behalf.
I am for Mr. Marshall. I am here as
a delegate from Ohio. I ran In a pop
ular primary pledged to support Mr.
Marshall and obviously could not al
low myself to be considered.
Wilton's Draft of Platform.
"The president's own" draft of the
platform a single copy said to have
been typewritten by himself will be
delivered by Mr. Baker to Senator
Stone of Missouri, cbairman-to-be of
the resolutions committee. Little
change in it is anticipated. Mr. Baker
said he cams here as the means of
communication between the committee,
the convention and the president.
AlSiough Mr. Baker declined tonight
to disclose the president's platform
views, it was learned the platform will
dwell principally on "peace, prepared
ness for peace, and prosperity."
Despite agitation- by some demo
cratic leaders, -President Wilson, it is
said, disapproved insertion of a plank
criticising the nomination of a su
preme court justice for president or
favoring a constitutional amendment
prohibiting Justices from seeking other
public federal offices. '.
A Progressive Platform.
The president desires' adoption of a
platform so progressive that it will ap
peal to and attract members of the
progressive party, but without an opin
ion, direct invitation to the progres
sives to swing their strength to the
democratic ticket, it was learned.
Will Leave Suffrage to States.
Ap to female suffrage, it was under
stood the platform will suggest that
the women continue their efforts for
the ballot In the respective states, the
primary authority for political quali
fications. -
The principal planks; it was authori
tatively stated, will deal with the ad
ministration's trials and achievements
in handling: international and Mexican
affairs, its rapid and deliberate steps
toward -preparedness for peace," and
the record of economic and Indue trial
legislation contributing to general
prosperity.
Aggressive Campaign Planned.
Secretary Baker also' brought Infor
mation regarding: the aggressive cam
palgn planned in behalf of Mr. Wilson.
The country to be covered by leading
democratic orators. Vice President
Marshall Secretary Baker, Secretary
Lane, Senator James of Kentucky,
Representative Claud Kitchin of North
CaroliinCSenators Hollis, Reed and
Owen and others from both senate and
house will foe among the speakers.
The president tiad not decided on the
part he will play In the campaign, ac
cording to Secretary Baker.'
Selection of Managers.
Mr. Baker was besieged tonight for
Information regarding . the - probable
campaign manager, the chairman - of
the national committee. It became
known tonight that CoL is. M. House.
the president's - closest personal friend
and advisor, and Fred B. Lynch. Min
nesota, national committeemen, have
been, practically-eliminated from con
eideratlon. Colonel House, it was said,
was asked by the president to take the
place, but believed another should
maaage the fight a the cbairman of
the national committee.
Homer S. Cummings Mentioned.
National Committeeman Homer 6.
Cummings of Connecticut, said to have
a strong following In the committee,
is still on the president's list, but he,
according to report, is not a strong
White House favorite for -the chair
manship. Edward N HutW nt rTii-
cago, feCSJ trade commissioner, and
William I Baunders of New York,
president of the American Institute of
Mines and vice chairman of the navy
consulting board, - both regarded by
inenas oi tne president as good rean
izers, also aro under consideration.
Vance McCormick and PL H. Harris.
both of Pennsylvania and eaid to have
Agreed Upon ;
LOUIS WITH PLATFOHIl
been suggested by former Representa
tive A. Mittl-.ell Palmer of that state.
- - Mentioned for Treasurer.
Wilbur W. Marsh; national commit
teeman from Iowa, was mentioned to
night for treasurer, and Henry Morgen
fb.au of New York, former amb&&ijjit,;-
to Turkey, was said to be slated for
chairman of the finance committee.
Although Mr. Baker said that his
function in representing the president
had exclusively to do witn the piat
form, and that he was not authorize !
to represent Mr. Wilson an any s re
ject, his statements, , including tie
president's desire fcr Vice President
Marshall's renomination, were rc-'-r-'.- '.
generally as representing the V. t re
House point of view.
Regarding the plan . broached by
some leaders to send an invitation to
the progrensives to join the democrats.
or make specific platform overtures to
them, Mr. Baker said:
"The progressives are a group cf
men who are earnestly and devote-S -'
trying to serve a set of deep roott-d
political beliefs. They do not want a
piece of engraved stationery which
they can call an Invitation, but evi
dence that the democrats and progres
sives are trying to serve . the sarma
cause. ...
"The record of the democratic admin
istration contrasted with the republican
platform ought to satisfy any procrrofi
slve Itoat his opportunity lies with the
democratic party.
V., " No Invitation to Progressives.
1 "There could not be any direct Invi
tation to tne progressives In the d rr. -cratlc
platform. We can only bor a t
get progressive support by drawing a
platform so that It will meet their ap
proval. I think that a great ma.-.y
progressives will feel deeply dir -pointed
with the meaningless repiK . .;
can platform and outraged at the be
trayal of their own party. They wiil
realize that the democratic platform
and candidates. will more nearly repre
sent their own Ideals and they will vols
for President Wilson."
Baker to Campaign.
Secretary Baker said tonUrht that X, 9
faoped to spend much of the Eunur.- r
campaigning.
1 will give every minute of my ttai
that is consistent with my full duty t
the war department, going wherever
the national committee thinks I can to
of any service.
"The democratic speakers bure.-3.
according to present, plans, will agai i
be under the immediate direction cf
Postmaster General Burleson."
BRYAN NOT TO URGE
PROHIBITION PLAN..
This Yesr Not the Time to Touch
Upon the Subject.
St. Louis. June 13. William Jen
nings Bryan announced definitely to
day that he would not urge a pror.i. i
tkn plank before the resolutions com
mittee, and added that he believ-1
this year was not the time for ti u
party to touch upon the subject. Mr.
Bryan said he did not expect to spea it
before the convention, but would do
so if invited, and announced his in
tention of making democratic speeches
all through the' campaign.
"What will be the theme this year?"
he was asked, and 'some of the in
quirers referred to some of his forrxifr
campaign slogans.
"I don't know,", said Mr. Bryan med
itatively. "I guess the open season fcr
progressives would be a good topic."
air. iiryan was aked by frier,'
what be thought of Colonel Roosevelt s
provisional declination to accept tha
progressive nomination.
"I think," said he, "It can be fce?i
compared to the reply of the maid who
told the ardent swain the best sh
could do would be to be a sister to
him."
CONFERENCE FAILS TO FIX
RAILWAY WAGE SCALST.
Negotiations Intended to Avert a Gen
eral Strike Have Failed.
New York. June 18. Although the
conference tetween representatives cT
the railroads of the country and thrir
employes technically is still in ses
sion, spokesman - for both skies de
clared tonight that the negotiation,
intended to avert a general strike,
have failed. The conference, they state,
will In all probability break up tomor
row, when the railroads finish the leg
islation of their "contingent" or counter-proposition
to meet the demands cf
the men. -
The failure of the conferences dc--i
not mean that a general strike of th
SE-0,000 railroad men affected wiil i7i
mediately follow, but the railroad men
and managers agree. The result of t '-.
conference must first be reported t -the
men. A strike vote will fnii. v
and if the strike is authorized t v
workers wil then renew their deman
Only in the event of anoilicr faii ; ,
agree, either through compromise f
arbitration, would the strike oratr t -come
effective.
The demands of the men Inch;
eight hour day, time and a hs f
overtime and the retention cf e -o
methods of double coranena' In
different forms of labor durin-r t
work day. The "continc-e-nt" ra
tion of the railroads, wh;;j s -the
shorter work day and i ;
overtime, excludes the ,-,, ,,
sation feature. It ia !:- '-
that ha? c.-i". -'-1 t"r,- r. r -
'tion of the cor-.f .
