r v
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probably fair to-day and to-morrow;
variable winds.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Ighest temperaturt yatttrcUy, 76; lowest, 59.
etallcd woatmor, mall and marine reports on pae In,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 288.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
j. Bwk H
HISOWNCHIEFS
RAID1NGTEXAS,
CARRAHZATOLD
Jstatc Department Points to
Killing of Villarcal b.v
U. S. Troops.
SIIAIM' NOTE WILL
FOLLOW THIS WEEK
Wa.'HINOTON', June 13. lleptesenta
Hens were sent by the State Depart
ment to-day to (Sen. Carranza calling
fell attention to the fact that the body of
m of the Mexican raiders killed by
American troopers following the raid on
Coleman's ranch near Laredo, Tex., has
Ivclv Identified as that of
Ueut-Col. VIMareal. an officer In Car-;
rutin's nrmy. 1
The representations were went ns a
wit of prelude, to the American reply I
j 11 1 I
to carranza s uo.e uenmmmiK ......
mediate withdrawal or me rersning ex- -
Mriitinn from Mexico. Carranza' atten-
vm was also called In to-day's mcs-!
tll to t'le faet ,hiU at ,1,e ,lme ot lhe
raid Vlllareal was clothed In a Car
tui:lta uniform and carried papers
which clearly established his Identity.
The formal reply to the Carranza
note, It was learned this afternoon, will
wt be forwarded to Mexico city before
jiturday night or Monday, ltefore It
foes there will be further conferences
between the President and Secretary
" 1. 1. ...
nil en comiMe.ru. .
"'''
v. i,..n t-
.vnt 10 neciill Troop..
The note wll' rejea Carranza's de-
.Tind for nn Immediate withdrawal It
t'.l contain a jdiatp rebuke for the Ian-
fjiste cmvloyid In ttio Mexican com-
rminleatlon and especially fur what off!-
als line regard as Carranza's Insult
jrl cratultoa if fertnce to matters con-
rr.lnK the relations existing between
'he I'nlted .States and third parties and
hi intnuatlons that President Wilson
na ketplng the troops in Mexico for
I-olitical reaonr.
At the i-ame time it i said authorl-
Wth'ly that the American note will
omply with fairanza's demand for an
ujuipc 01 me imenuoiis ui uim .-
t"mtnl . , , , . . ,
He will be reminded again that at the
ejuwt of the expedition Into Mexico
President Wilson In a public statement
f" J,lmu " l'U5P" "luiun" m-
f Tie un ier lien. I'listilng as -oon
id bandits who attacked Columbus
cre raptured or ill.ipi-rjied and as
.."II a the (,'arinnza authorities ob
ned effective contiol over the situa
t in
Th.s purpose, the note will sa. has
ur arled, and the fiovernun nt of
I nited States strongly resents the
mputatlons of bad faith contained In
he communication from the de facto
internment of Mexico.
To the end that this purpose mUht be
-pecd.ly accomplished, the American r-
'v will say, the Government of the
r.lted States earnestly sought the co
loration of the Carranza Government.
un to the extent of bringing about the .
v,T.f... .l.o l,nlr K.,.c r!o,,
Hiott and Olirogon, which conferences
"h I'mted States hoped would result in
i aereement under which this coopera
'ion between the military forces of the
"o Governments could be most effec
tlult carrlel out.
Care Verbal Aaeurnncra, (
Although the Mexican representative '
i! these conferences declined to sub-
ribe to nny formal agreement he gate
'o (, en Scott, the note will say, such.
'O-bal jssilrjinces n. In lead the Amer
lSsurances as to lead the Amer-
an Government to hope that effective I
ftion would be taken by tho de facto 1
'rtternnient to clean up the remaining
Andlts nnd thus permit the expedition
!o be withdrawn.
The note will take direct exception to
ftatements contained In the Mexican
!u)te to the effect that Cien. Bcott had
promised fiens. Obregon and Trevlno
'hat no other expeditions would be sent
across the line In the event of future
raids and on behalf of lieu. Scott will
'I'tiy that the latter had assured Gen.
"hregon that no expedition had been
r as to be sent In pursuit of the CJIenn
Springs and lloqulllas raiders.
The hopes that the American Oovern-
writ entertained regarding the promises t
"! Obregon. the note will continue, have
void of fulfilment owing to the
inrces. in me
mfamimi disorders on the part of law-
hands have continued and elements
tlllo to the United States have been
aD.eifher through the connivance or tho
.nOTferenco of renresentatives of Hie iln
larto (invrrnmertt In northern Mexico to
I'anlarce nntl-Amerlcan demonstrations
i simc of the principal cities controlled
,v l arranza and to Incite the populace
' "awe up arms against the United
Kibe.
U nnu Denis Not Words.
Vi'ilep such conditions, the note will
ciare the fnlted State cannot con
'rt to witlulraw its forces, the main
"''Je t and purpose of which lias been
safeguard American territory. The
Lr.itnj states, however, still stands ready
o withdraw the expedition at any time,
'rat the Crranza authorities are able
"J nciua deeds rather than promises
rlfmmistrate their ability to take hold
the s tiiatlon and maintain order along
rorder
What fffect the note Is eolnir to have
"1 ''if Mevlcan people is a matter of ex -
'r'me roiuern to ofllclals here. Many
4 " frsnhly of the opinion that It will
"k'llt .ii a hostile demoiihtratlon that
'11 f'lrre thn American Government to
more uirsieshlve steps.
In s inp m, tu. outlook State Depart
"'nt oiiidals admit themselves handl--iV-
y their Inability to nsccrtaln
'triar s behind thee antl-Amerlcan
"'moretrations that have been staged
't r'iihiia city, Saltlllo and other
''I" That an organized propaganda
"I nn lund Is at work Is shown by the
Milfoirnity rt)aracter of thn demon
Mration" but whether Carranza him
' I In any way responsible Is not
Known.
In n me quarters the belief Is growing
Inn ''arranza, already at the brink of
"llr and faring growing dissensions
'1orK his suburdlnateH, has come to the
'oririuniou that his only chance lies In n
'PctnMj,ir defliuice of the United
lat It Id known t the State Depart
nt i list some of his auhordlimtcs have
ri((siied on Talrd fagt.
LEMBERG MENACED ON
.THREE SIDES; GERMANS
FAIL TO HALT RUSSIANS
Fall of Czernowitz Regarded as Only Matter of Hours
Czar's Troops Cross Galician Border and
Attack Sokul Advancing on Kovel.
)eci'it I'able titipatci to Tilt Sf.v.
I.II.NPON. June 13. Letubcrg, capital
of U.ilk'lii, la threatened from three aides
liy the tlusslan nrmles under Gen. Hru
slloff. The ndvnnce In Volhynla, Oallcta
ami the Hukotvina continued without
substantial check during the last twentv
four hours. Field Marshal von Hlnden
burg's apparent movement for a Ren
em! offensive on the Itlga-Dwinsk (rout
has thus far failed to exert nny Influence
upnn the Russian drive south of the
l'rlpet marshes.
Czernowitz, capital nf the Hukowtna,
Is masked by the extreme left wing- of
the Muscovite armies, nnd Its fall la
regarded as only a matter of hours.
Itusla,i cavalry has entered Smatyn,
io nby Vl.n nZ
The Austrian War Office also reports
the presence of Cossacks In Sadngora,
only three miles northeast of Czrno-
Wlt.6,
The Bhol(. of 0UtMern Volhynla has
heen overrun by the llusslans, who now
are forty-two mllen west of the point
hciicn their offensive In that province
I began. They have captured the city of
Tortchln, twenty-two miles northwest nf
Lutzk. Another force, to the south, has
crossed the Oallclan border and Is nt
tacking the Teutons at Sokul. which lies
only forty-eight miles north of Lcmberg.
Vienna asserts the flusslan attacks here
were repulsed
Pressing; On In Volhynla.
In northwestern Volhynla Gen. Hrusl-
wmcn iney iook a tew days ago, anil are
, ,e mmeunle vicinity of the Hlver
Stokhod. nn advance of about sixteen
miles. From the point where the Hovno-
Kove, ,,. ryer ,
es than twenty-six miles from Kovel
The Austro-Ilungarlau lines here appear
to be unexpectedly weak nnd the Russian
advance to the northwest seems Irre-
slstlble.
If the Itusslans capture Kovel thev
win he In complete control of the entlte
mllway system serving the whole right
wing of the Austro-Iluiignilau front,
Uy ti,er rapid westward advance In
Volhynla and the simultaneous pi ogress
northward from the Hukon ina-llessarahla
line, the Itusslans are squeezing the
-outhern Teuinn irmln h.m ...
ilatikt.. forcing It to retreat further and!
rurther toward the Carpathians. If the
drhe In Volhynla continues and Kovel is
lakeii the Austro-Gcrman right wing will
lie completely cut off from the armies in
n,e north.
T,l9 .he . tuatlon .is II hi- ,1...
elopetl during the last twenty-four
hours as shown by both the Husslan anil
Austrian nillcl.il reports. The Itusslans t
have added 3,000 officers and men to the.
number of prisoners taken since the of-1
tensive began. Compared with the
previous dally average the number is
smAi which Is explained by I'etrograd
with the statement that the Austro-llun-garlan
retreat has become more rapid.
The Teutons are leaving tremendous
quantifies, of material behind.
Annlrlan Make One Aland,
The only point at which the Austro
Hungarian line seems to be still Intact
';ar. u"iK,.'n """""ii toinyn.u.
SCUin 01 llie nij r, iirrf. . iroon
sens, the Russians were beaten hack In
GREEK KING LEAVES
ATHENS; FEARS RISING
...... r.i. u,. i u,,oi,i!i.
"" ' '...-. i. ,
Is Report Whole Army
to Ho Demobilized.
..ecial Cnhtr Pnjmlch to Tns Sr
Rome, June 13. It Is learned through
diplomatic channels here that King Con
stantino of Greece has left Athens for
I.arlssa, as a precaution, because he
fears that there may be a revolution In
Greece. From I.arlssa be will be able
to seek refuge In Mounstlr
Athens despatches say that the com
plete demobilization of the arms has
been ordered ny me rung
, . i -i v, 1 .vnll.menl u-iiu Closed
.. ,. '
,nh against the newspapers which have
HnPportel former Premier venizeios.
ho trouble was started by shouts
t)at a rjerman agent had pild for the
- r,plnuse which greeted King Constantino
at the horse show which had Just been
.... ..n.n.,ni Tin crowd, made
.... fnr .he most part of persons who had
i i n, win. Hum. became excited
The nollce nromutly arrested the ills-
' .ur)Crn put the crowd had been aroused
nm two hours
and two hours later n negan an aimuiv
on the newspapers, throwing stones and
shouting "laing llvn the King'"
SUFF PUNCpiS LEGISLATOR.
Mrs. Pnn-pckrr' Piinlshea Assem
blyman Mnrhold of Wnlrrtown.
tv.Tr.nTOWN. N. Y.. June 13. Because
i. , ,..a aciiinst Hie suffrace rererendum
In the legislature Mrs. M. J. Penny-
packer, a suffragist of Klllsburg, punched
Assemniymau iieury iii
both were attending cnurcn nnr in .-.un-
I day. Mrs. Peunypacker hadll t seen
1 Machold since the l.eglslatute adjouineo
'cin.T, fnnnv fcellnir nromnted me to
do It," she told a delegation ot sui-
fra gists to-day.
The Incident caused a num uproar in
(own, The Assemhltman paid little at
tention to the "assault," and as he nnd
Mrs. Peunypacker are neighbors, it is
said nothing will come of It unless there
Is more punching.
SOCIALIST MAYOR IN SOUTH.
Ilronknenl, Va., Klerts First Kver
Chosen In That lnte,
I.TNCimunn, Vn June 13. H, K. Gin
ther, huslncsn manager of the Jnloa
,Snr at llrookneal. a Socialist paper, and
himself a Socialist leader, was elected
Mayor of the town of llrookneal lo-day,
defeating ft. F. Connolly, a prominent
merchant.
Olnther Is the first Socialist ever to be
elected to the ofllce of Major lu Virginia
anil probably In the South, The Demo
crabs elected the full council of six
members.
their attempts to croem the river, th
Teutons taking 2,000 prisoners.
Tlie Russian official statement follows:
To the northwest of nojltche we ap
proached the River Stokhod, dislodg
ing the Germans.
West of Lutzk we occupied Tortchln.
On tho Strypa front, north of Bob
ullntze, we captured Znrvanetza.
We crossed the Dniester and cap
tured many fortifications, aUo Zal
echltchkl nnd Horodenkn.
Owing to the rapid withdrawal of
the Austrlans nnd Germans at many
places before our southern army the
number of prisoners has only slightly
Increased. The total now amounts to
1,700 ofllccra and 114,000 men, The
enemy left enormous booty behind.
The Austrian War Office report fol
lows :
On the Pruth, south nf Ilojan, a
Ruslan attack was repulsed.
Knemy cavalry entered Sadagora,
Snlatyn and Horodenko.
At liurkanotv, on the Strypa, Rus
sian advances failed.
Northwest of Tarnopol fighting goes
on uninterruptedly,
Near Sapanow a Russian attack
was frustrated by our artillery.
To the southwest of Dubno we re
pulsed enemy cavalry,
- In Volhynla the enemy's cavalry
"reached the sector of Tortchtn.
Near Sokul, on the Styr, an enemy
attack was repulsed.
Near Kolkl attempts by the Rus
sians to cross the river failed. The
number of prisoners captured here
was Increased to 2,000
To-day's official German statement
follows:
On the Dwlna, southeast of pubena
(seventeen miles eoutheast of Jacob
stndt). the Are of our batteries dis
posed of a Russian cavalry brigade.
Northwest ot Raranovltchl the ar
tillery fire of the enemy was more
lltely.
The army of Gen, Count von Roth
mcr repulsed completely an attack
made by the enemy, on the Strypa
west nf Przewloka. " Near Podhaljze
a Russian aeroplane was overpowered
bj a German aviator In an aerial bat
tle. The pilot and the observer, the
latter a French officer, were captured.
The aeroplane was saved.
The Vienna Wnr Office Issued last
night the following report.
In the northeastern Hukowtna,
utro-Hungnrlan troops disengaged
themselves from
the enemy under
heavy rearguard fighting.
German and Aiuitrn-IIuiigarlan regi
ments by a counter attack drote back
a hostile force advancing northwest
from Uuczacz. Thirteen hundred
prisoners were taken.
On the height east of Wlsnlowlsce
a Russian attack was-aVIkered this
morning, but it broke down under our
artillery lire.
Kast of Kozlotv AuMro-Hungarlan
scout detainments captured a Russian
advanced
Violent lighting continues northwest
of Tarnopol The positions near Vo
rohlevka, which hate been mentioned
repeatedly, changed hands several
times.
Along the Ikwa and In Volhynla
it was comparatively quiet yesterday,
Kast of Kolkl we repulsed a Russian
attempt to cross the river. In that
region, as everywhere, tho losnes of
the Russians corresponded to their
reckless use of the masses of troops.
"DO SOMETHING," SAYS
LIFT BOY TO DANIELS
Elevator Tlnnner's Advice to
the Secretary Considered
(tood by Hearers.
St. I.ot'is. June 13. A Jefferson Ho
tel elevator boy, 'following orders which
say that only eight persons must ride
in hi car with him t a time, stopped
his car at the second floor on a down
ward trip to-day and opened the elevator
door. There were seven men In the car
at the time, a reporter from The Sun
being one of them.
"ftoom for one only," snapped the boy
j as a man In a creamy palm beach suit
and two of his friends tried to wedge
their way In. "Come on, mister," the
boy said Impatiently as the man held
back and hesitated about entering a car
from which his friends .were being
haired. "Conic on do something, It's
up to you.
"Voting man," said a passenger to
the elevator bot as the youth slammed
the gate up on the hesitating person
nnd started his car downward with his
grinning passengers, "the gentleman you
slammed the door upon up there was
Mr. Daniels. Vou shouldn't have spoken
so 'disrespectfully to the Secretary of
the Navy,"
"Wall," drawled a lull man at the
,ear of the elevator, "coine tew think u
u ,Ai,.,,. ,i,iu i.nv w.. ciirht. who.
j i yw said, sonny? 'Dew somethln,'
)(,H lip ((,w yeWi. t seems tew me like
I this boy here is migniy Keen on me
H8UeH ( the day.
MINERS OFFER A NEW SCALE.
Prlre Mat Is Nuldilltled In
(he
Pittsburg I'onl Operators.
MoNoNciAiini.A. Pa, June 13. As a
result of jesterday's meeting of dele -
gates representing nearly 40,000 miners
In the Pittsburg district, a committee
to-day submitted a wage scale to tho
Pittsburg coal operators' association ln
ii... of in. scale udoiited liv nfllclnls of
the miners' union at the New York con
.u- .Minn.. ...ilfto lit III. V'.U' Vnelr cntt '
fere nee several weeks ago. This Is the
scale i
"Agrees to pay tho advance granted
by the New York agreement, which Ii
,r, 1 3 1 cents a tun advance on a run of
mine basis, with a general advance of
j S per cent, on all day work. Yardage
and dead work and nil other conditions
to remain the same a the 1914 contract
for district No, ft, United Mine Workers
of America."
The ofllcers of the United Mlncworkcrs
Wl America were Ignored entirely by the
committee which drafted the new nolle.
ARMY BILL PROVIDES
6 MONTHS TRAINING
New Measure Proposes to liar
From Work All Youths Wlio
Fail to Serve.
EMPLOYERS RESPONSIBLE
Trained Citizens Liable to Ser
vice for 7 Years if Na
tional Crisis Comes.
Washinoto.v, June 13. At the In
stance of Senator Chamberlain of Oregon
a complete redraft "ot his supplementary
nrmy bill providing for universal rom
pulsory military training has Just been
completed by Capt. George Van Horn
Moseley of the General Staff of the War
Department.
In the new form the bill substitutes
for the original requirement of two
months annual military training for
young men between the ages of 18 and
21 a provision requiring every nble
bodied male citizen of the country to
undertake a six months course of mili
tary training during the calendar year In
which he reaches the age of 18. In the
I case of young men who have attended
;ullltary academies approved by the War
or .Navy departments credits up to a i
maximum of two months exemption will
be allowed against the six months re-1
iiuireu couisp.
Although the measure does not Im
pose any direct penalties on young men
who refuse to take the training, It pro
vides for a fine or Imprisonment, or
both, for any individual, firm or corpora
tion who emploes any young man above
the age of 18 who Is unable to show a
certificate from the Federal Govern
ment that he has taken the course or
has been exempted.
niTP President I'oner.
I The bill provides that the President I
i shall decide annually which of the num-1
ber of recruits under the new system
hall be trained for the army and which
for the navy, nnd In his discretion the
I'reMdent may, aa the number of trained
men In reserve or active training In
creases, cut down the strength of the
standing army and assign commissioned .
and noii-cominlssloned officers of the reg
ulars to the work nf training the civilian I
force
It Is provided that, after taking the
prescribed course, the trained citizens
shall be liable for seven ears to mo
bilization and service in the Meld only
ily I
In the event of a national emergency.
in inc event or sucn emergency, wie ,
uungcsi Classes woum ue caiie.i urei. .
leaving the older men who have married
and aseumed responsibilities until the
last .
Army officers favoring the new bill
declare that much more effective train
ing could le given In a continuous course
of six months thim In three annual
courses of two months e.ich. They esti
mate that. If the plan Is put Into opera
tion, In a short time thn national re
serve of "tiallfled" soldiers and sailors
lontd be Increased at the rate of 100,
uOO a )ni.
All Mint Take Course.
lit Imposing on the concerns the pen-
; allies of lequirlng this i-ervliv to be
taken. It i t-ald, the tloternment would
be relieved of the resnonsibllltv of Im-
men tusi enterlne tinon their careers.
The bill Is so worded thnt the employ-
, ment disability for young men who fall
to take the training, provided they the
phtslcally and mentally sound, will Ho
against them until such time as they
have taken the prescribed coulee In
this way the son of rich men could not
hopo to escape by leaving the country
, during the period of their outh.
I Army officus declare thut the present
Mexican sTtliatlon, with the poor showing
made by. the State militia that has been
t called out and the Ineffective efforts
1 to get men to enlist In the regulars un
der the Hay resolution, has demon
strated, where the Ruropean war may
have failed to demonstrate, the absolute
necessity of some kind of compulsory
training. On the groun.il that the Na-
tlonal Guard of the various States Is
largely composed of married men with
heavy responsibilities, army officers are
dlspiised to excuse the failure of these
organizations to turn out In time of vjar
In their full strength.
ot TTTtciirr-n
SAW UUll I JV.WUW nuunts.
Hut He vsLcil Olle Jnli.es When
"Whltr roiK." "l.l .om.nn.n.
St. Uit'is, June 13. "Sam, an old
black polisher of shoos In the Senate end
nf tho Capitol, was giving me a shine
just before 1 left Washington," said Sen -
ator Ollle James in the lonuy or tne
Jefferson to-day, "when ho looked up
nnd said: 'Senatah. who all did tne
'Publicans r.oiu'riate foh Pres dunt tilh
Chlcawgah. please, sun.
"Justice Hughes. Sain," I answered
'Ah don't know as All ever heard
i mUeli of him, sub,' Sam said thoughtfully
Then he asked me about the Progres -
slve .onveniion ami i torn unn .m.
I Hoosevelt had been nominated.
He,
rubbed my shoes a wnne aim
then
looked up and said :
" 'Senatah, please, suli, when
white folks going to nominate
Louis"' "
HUGHES FAVORITE IN BETTING.
Hilll.llOO t uno.tlOl OITerril, With
N(, .ri,krrll Mftht,
Chester Thomnson. a curb operator,
" i icports an olfer to bet ?6n,00n to r.ft,0(io
1 1 .. . . ...1.. 'P.. I a 1...
on nuance, wnu no u.iif-ic, i oi. im
si.ys. Is the Inrgest single offer that
has been made.
He savs there Is no Wilson money
et In sight, but he belles es this will
iie the biggest betting rninpatgn on ice
old, 1 .
COLLEGE HONORS HEMPSTEAD.
. ,n(n etta- IIIitIs lln-tmll Mnn nn
. Alonnil I roster.
ICastoN, Pa., June 13. The election of
Harry N, Hempstead, president of the
New York National league baseball
team, as an alumni trustee of Lafayette
College was announced to-day, which Is
being observed as alumni day at the
tlghty-tlrst annual commencement ex
eiclses. He Is a member of the class
of 'St,
Other alumni trustees were elected as
follows: Carrol Phillips Hassett, 'S3, of
Summit, N, .1.! Abraham C. Qvcrlmlt,
'M, of Scottdale, Ph. Thomas Klsher of
Philadelphia was elected a IK member
of the board of trustees.
BRYAN DIM AMID
DEMOCRATIC STARS
Unsung, Unnoticed, He
pears as a Spectre of
Former Glory.
Ap-
NO PLANK AND NO FIGHT
Greeted Only by Old Man of
the Silver Days With
"Times Chansc.'
St. I-oUls, June 13. An elderly man
with a bald ppot stepped from n taxi
at the curb of the JefTerson Hotel this
morning, fished some silver change from
his pocket to satisfy the dilver, hoisted
his battered valise from the sidewalk
and paused for a moment while he cooled
his moist face with a palm leaf fan.
Ills eyes, glinting nnd narrowing,
studied the throng, lingered upon it. He
saw Senator J. Hamilton lewls the cen
tre of n amused group, He observed
Murphy of Tammany avoiding a surge
of the curious and his face hardened lie
noticed Senators Rill Stone and Reed
of Missouri beaming upon their ad
mirers. He saw Harmon of Ohio nnd
Walsh of Massachusetts and ardainan
of Mississippi
being interviewed anil
snapshotted. And he
sketched and
stared with tumbled eves
Corresyondi'iitH avoided him
Arllts.
once so eager to pencil the lines of his
5?Tt$5? ""'mRAICER ARRIVES H in IMC SOI f
ful. perhaps hopeful, figure. Visitors
continued to crowd about the leaders
that have survived the tricks of time or
to laugh behind their (pm' il certain
niannlklns of fun. The drum major of
a band preceding a delegation Into the
hotel elbowed hlin to one side. He sub
mitted without protest
Somebody asked. 'Who ! that man""
Somebody replied- Oh, that's Hryan."
"They llee Prom Me,"
A MIourl Democrat who knows the
Scripture recalled Job's plaint to Illldad
the Shuhite nml ouotcd it, uunied It
without scorn, rather with a note of
sympathy . "The.v abhor inc. they flee
far from me, the dais of affliction have
taken hold upon me, 1 am companion
The Nebraska,,, who had be,,, three, ' "ay there, or buttoned tight to Mr.
. ines th l andhbitH for Pi evident of . Maker' shirt, until the resolutions com
thee tei) men who had lo-day no chee. s 1 mlttee Is appointed to-morrow Then
lur mm. cruiseu me smew-am, emr ,
V i.,. .i. ., ,.,i
me lioil'l, ppcurni ill- iim.mi iiiiu hi.-.- i
,,.,.,,,, ,., , h',A ...ihr.
mK
.. , ,... hvnnntiie.1
by him. don't want him, are not Inter
ested In him and have made sure that
be hall not Interrupt their harmonious
oratorio In honor of Woodrow Wilson.
Whatever of enthusiasm they had for
lorn l d.fvc,1 anil -.tried im Thev have
I sort of superstition about him. lie Is ,
bad 'nek Mlsfoituiie el.ngM to him.
Doubt and suepicmn lonow at nis neei.
The change of feeling Is amazing,
That Ury.ni could show his face amon
a company of Democrat without Impel-
:ing bands to play, drums to beat, tlags
the lobby of a hotel jammed with hun
dred who once hiuli-vl him as the peer
less leader and who followed hi ill with
the fanaticism of crusaders appears un-
! Turn recollection back through
tlie
seirs. Ilrnn at rhlc.cgo in lS!"i" A
I oung, tlery strnnger. coming from
. norifsiy Knew wnere. siariung ine crauv
'caders. disrupting their plans, arousing
the convention to lunatic enthufiasm
with the cross of gold and crown of
thorns speech, snatching the nomination
and splitting the party, all to thundering
.heel. Through the country he moved
like a prophet, nor did crushing defeat '
alienate, his followers. j
Tlie llrjsn Thnt Was.
Hivan at Kansas City In innn, the
i-idici.r hem renominated bv acclama-
Hon. still the talked about, written about,
wildly applauded leader, preaching the
dangers of colonial expansion, catching
.. .......... -I,-..! or .. I-.,.. r.,..rim.
ihn,o!i "ili. coonti v
1 Kecall him In tlii very city In 1904,
twelve .tears ago, as the Implacable foe
uf Parker, half dead on Ills feet from
utter weariness ami tho badgering of
his foes, tottering from evhaustlun ami
i Illness ..ml jet lighting to the last, alwa.vs
1 iiccliilnied, even by many of tlie men who
'i.nl begun to set their fares against
' him
' Party defeat had uplifted his prcetlge
'four teara later at Denver and again
,h ,,, am, w .
hoped merely to get somethln out of
luni tore their tlnoats with .veils. Hryan,
Hi tan, Hi. tan, greatest man that eter1
.i.ved' They cheered htm for one hour.
,md twenty minutes, a record until the
I veil for Itoosevelt at the Chicago Hull
toosn convention
I Another foul veins went lit Hryan I
went to Halttmoie. cherishing the ghost
I" ,of a ihope that the nomination might fall
rdip. himself, but determined above all
I tlint Champ Clark should not hat e
1 1 1 i,t,,eared like H.n num X Hall. y s
'nii'iis, i iiousanus gaiuereu ai ini' ue.
not to greet him A retinue Isittcd In
his tialu 11 W name was the tall of
i every cheer. Hands blared wlicnever lit
is the I showed Ills face Ills headquarters pro
Ill St. ; vuicd the news, all of the thrills anil
sin prises
t'pon the convention floor he raged like
a Hun, ordered Ityun nnd Kclimiiit out
ol the hall, humiliated Tammany, hurled
msiiltn and detian.es light and left Ily
the slitewdne of his. hiiUn nnd I lit"
music of his voice. 3ie made Wood low
Wilson the nominee of the coot eiitlon
ami so Piesldent of the I'nlted States
Ills Vlnglc Hn Wnneil.
Something has ...cinred In the Hist
four jienrs, the .tears leading up to
these, his ia of obscurity Ills magic
has waned Ills Influence Is dls.-ipateil,
Ills fighting spirit seems to be dulled.
He has come to be a looker on. a com
..tt.iiiiilor of oilier men's acts and words.
..... soioeililiiir of Irniredv In all Mils
In lhe utter eclipse or such spirit ami
abllltf .Mr. Hryan appeals sobered
and s'llghtly melancholy
Ho was pacing the corridor of the
slsth Moor of tin- JefTerson Hotel this
aftt 1 noon, walKlng slowly up unit down, ' at tne rresiueiu s iequ.-i. .-.u.uui-haiids
clasped behind Ills back, head Walsh of Montana also submitted, at
lotteifJ. when a correspondent of Tun ' Mr. Wilson's icquest, Impottant sugges
SUN asked pernilsion to Interrupt his ' Hons coveilug both subject matter and
iiudlttitlon.
The corridor was empty of peisons
except for Mr. Hryan and the reporter.
Kor the first Mnie in twenty years Hryan
was alone among lemocrats, Kor the
first lime In twenty years there were no
crowds outside Ills rooms, no Interest
lug newspaper men, no anxious, whisper-
C'oiilimird on Second Pagr.
WILSON ORDERS A TTACK ON
HUGHES OUT OF PLA TFORM;
WELCOME WIRED TO MOOSE
,
PLANKS IN THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM.
QT. LOUIS, June 13. The Democratic platform, as framed for the
convention and assured of adoption, contains plnnks on the fol
lowing issues:
Praise of the Wilson Administration as one of great achieve
ment. Strong defence of the President's foreign policy predicated
on the desire to maintain a strict neutrality and for this coun
try to remain at peace.
Approval of the President's plan for a peace league among
the nations.
Reaffirmation of tariff for revenue only with recommenda
tion for a tariff commission, and nn anti-dumping measure.
Indorsement of suffrage, but leaving it to the States.
Pledging the party to preparedness, and as an earnest of
this pointing to the military and naval bills just passed.
Indorsement of the Administration's ship purchase bill as a
step in building up the merchant marine.
Advocating clearer relations nnd greater cooperation with
South American countries and rigid insistence upon the Monroe
doctrine.
Approval of the Rural Credits bill agreed upon in Congress
and pointing to recent achievements of the Department of
Agriculture.
Strong approval of the President's course in Mexico, pur
sued with the idea of securing there a representative and dem
cratic government able to maintain order. Approval of the
sending of the American expedition into Mexico
COPY OF WILSON PLATFORM
Tariff Plank Has No Protection Tinge Preparedness 1
j nr..u r A Oi
anu vvuriu react re oirungi.v.utgeu ouiiiage 10
Have a Place Gompers Has 16 Proposals.
St I.oi'ts, June 12. -The Wilson draft
I of the Democratic platform Is here. It
arrived this evening In the eatchel of
' Newton D. Hakcr, Secretary of War. It
w.n, b ,,,,, Mott. 10(,e ,,
authorized to pass upon It
s,.reinrv Maker's nrrlv.i
Secretary Haker's arrival had
awaited all day with Intense interest be
cause It was known that he carried the
document over which the President hart
neen spending much time and reat care,
lie reached the 1'nlon Station at 6
o'clock, was met there by a reception
committee an-i escorted
to bis hotel.
short Inter-
one hour later he gave
yew cI,.ur,..i ,, a) doubt" an to
. .,,,, ,,
whether or not he was the cuModian of
the Wilson draft. Answering o,ucstion
(lf tju, rejKirters, Secfetaty Haker e.nd
I'resi'lt'iu s iM.moriii rufcucpviuiw. wi
.outxe I shall not give them out ir ills-1
cii-s them until the coinmlU.ee receives I
. hem.
1 have only one typewritten copy
, , , i...it ....
and 1 iegar.1 It as a confidential m.aKe
(rn,n the President to the committee, so
, onridentlnl that I even put I, under mv
j,uiovv when 1 went to Ued list nigm on
t,o train."
"N this platform a complete draft as
ade by the Presldint'.'" the Secretary
ill
ttas listed.
"That depends upon whether the com-
mlttee sees tit to add or Mibtract from
it. replied Mr Ilaker. "It contains tno
Piesldwits suggestions and they are ap
parently nil he has to make."
Mr Haker refused to say how many
' planks were in the draft made by Presl-
dent Wilson or answer any questions nsto
, what any of them coveied Thai none
of them touches Supreme Court randl -
d.icies. however, was apparent trom tho
fact ih.it Sccietarv linker, regarded nniv
a the President's chief repnsentatlvi!
here, came out flatly against tint men-
lion being made of such In the plat-
lorm III answer to a question on this
point, he said
"I do not approve of the Miggesnon
: made to incorporate such a plank m tne ,
plntfoini. You may quote me as saving I
that I am nut In fnvor of Imposing aitl-
I tidal restrictions upon candidacies,"
I
, Wilson nnrs Court Plunk
To hi questioners thele was no doubt
tliat the Seer, tart spoke with autlioilty
i upon this nialtei It menus that tho
committee iindnuht.dl. will give this
1 question of forbidding Supreme Court
I Justices .. quick death blow
Iteiireseiitatlte Hull still declares ih.it
he will ask the romniittee to adopt such
"'".'' V' ''7 V.'
I v ,,,"',lh '"'' .," v
;" r , ""l "',lK" J
pi. ink and csterd.it Senator Stone
the Inter, lew lie
Mr Hughes Ml
I d.iv It has been the eulijoct of discus. ,
slon among those who are to handle th ;
platform It quickly became known, t
however, that It did not hate the sane. ,
tlon nf the President, who has -ent word
th.U he wants Jlie cunpalgn kept fre..
fiom lersonalltles
lli.il. lie,.-..,,..,
Henry Morgcnth.iu said In regard l
"Such a plank will not get In the plat- i
fm m because the Piesldent will niter!
consent to It. This i.iinpalgn Ii- to he 1
conducted on a tniy high plane ami
th.ro will be no personalities in It" I
h'l'cdciick Lehmaiiii, ex-Solltitor-Gen-I
eral, when he heard of the efforts that '
were being made to make this an Issue
i aqd Incorporate It In the platform, said: j
"This is going in ne an intellectual
campaign conducted on the highest level
I we hate ever seen Any Dcniocrat who
' detracts from that mid seeks to inject
p. rsonalltleH III It will do great Ilium
to the party "
Mm in mil nnd Walsh tided.
It Is the understanding to-night that
lhe piationu cirari wnn n .hi. n.u.er hum
brought heie Is not exclusively the ttoiii
1 o.' the President. Senator Simmons of
S'orth Carolina, for example. Is know 11
, to have written the tariff part of this
. ptiriiscoiogy
These the Piesldent has taken and
mulled over, finally wilting out the draft
Mr. Haker has with him. Whether or
not Mr. Wilson has made many changes
In the planks as written by those whom
he. consulted will not be known mil II
Mr Haker lays his copy before the
committee to-morrow
Senator Stone had n long talk with
. yr
1.. it j i
Mr. Ilaker to-night and th platfi tin In
general was .llscusved, The report that
the tariff plank would have a protective
tinge to it, even going ho far as to de
clare for protection for the de Industry,
can be dismissed. It Is known that the
plank Mr. Wilson has approved will re
affirm the party's allegiance to tho tariff
I for revenue only principle nnd will Insist
are htat the I'ndemood tariff law Is In ac
' cordaiiif wlih this,
been " wl" a'llnl that competitive tailff
I rairs must rroni nine to lime De onnngea
' to meet new conditions nnd In thla con
nection there wilt be brought In the
. I'r'siilent's lci-ommcndatlon of a non-
I partisan tariff commission to Investigate
conditions at home and abroad. An
anti-dumping law also will he urged as
a means for keeping tariff rates on a
fairly competitive binds when foreign
over-production might threaten Amor.,t
can markets,
One plank in the Wilson platform, the
ttork of the President himself, It H
known, discusses peace and recommends
thai this country seek to unite with other
nations In a world's pea' league as sug
gested by the President In his lecent
speech on this subject.
fii.nipern' Slitren I'lnnka.
i t-roternment ownerMitp or teiegrapn
'"I1 icicjioune I lies no woi);ti suur.1K1
,, nInv. whirl.
Samuel Oonipers and a committee rep
i lesenllng the American l-'cderatlon of
,a,nr ,ate brought here and are to
'urge upon the resolutions committee
( .n th,. Gompers planks are generallza -
.ilou. calling, among other things, for
I the bettermen' of the condition of the
I labopug classes as the fundamental step
I m national prepiredness
The Iibor men want the Democrats to
pledge themselves to maintain lhe law
enacted bs tlie Wll'on Administration
tempting labor organizations and all
voluntar issoclatloiis of workers from
the operation of the Sherman liw. and
they want a specific plank protecting
, them iigalnM unwarrantable Issuance
of writs of injunction and guranteelng
the rlsht of trial by Jury In alleged
'lOntempt cases, committed outside the
presence of the courts,
V strong plank .ailing for the ie -
strictlon of Immigration Is another de -
strong plank calling for th
iii.ioii ,r ..ic iii..mo, inc.v v.i.1,1 an
in-icoo- nun iuiiool I...11 pumn I..IlKU..;c
oxoluded The labor people foresee a
tremendous Influx of Kuropean labor i
here after the war. and are Insistent
upon a pic (ik of this sort.
.h...
I.enu.ie nt Wurl.
The Navy League Is taking nn Im-i
P.u Hal stand In Its dealings with the!
Itepulilleati and Deinociatlc platform'
makers Col Hubert M Thompson of
New Vnrk the league's president, with
A It Lambert vice-president, and Hear
Adnili.il l isfei bans, have, arrived here
ui urge the Democrats to lake a stronger
stand than does the ltepubllcau plat
form In tin' matter of naval Increase.
though admittedly without great hopes
of success
Hie league hoped to get into both plat-
forms this year li demand that the Amer-
.cm navy should !.. resioicd to Its f,,, -
mcr rank as the second strong.-st lu the
, , ... ...i..., ".. ........ .
,,.,' '1't ,;, ' ' -,,, piV, te',
i , .,. , ...
eonleotcl 1 1,...,. sel.es with meceli-
. ,.,,, fl. ,, Mavy ,, f)11. ,,
In both the Atlantic and Pacific that
would be strong enough to protect both
coasts from invasion Col. Thompson
ami the navy leagueis complain that the
ltepubllcau plank lacks detlnlteness
To I'llrl Wllh s.llTrnBUls.
Woman suffiage is going to ic.elve
more consideration fnuu the Democrats
than It eter has befoie Then are many
hen. who think It Is going to be more of
an Issue III the campaign than has been
geueially expected Tiny are ptofe-slng
some concern over the attitude the Dem
ocrats are going to assume on it now
that the conviction has seized ev. ry ono
Hint the campaign Is going to be close
This Issue was left largely to the Pin-
j gressives rour ears ago. senator ,i II. tin
,.wis of Illinois and others from that
i st. ,hn; ,1,1,1 with tin Progiesslte
i,lrt j- sidetracked .as it tvei e, the w oiucn
ln, wtclilng Hie two old parties i1Uti .-
closely, and that It would be good poli
tics this .tear to Hut with tlicni ami if
possible win thetii fiom the Itupubllcaiis
The Southerners 111 e opposed to the
patty going nut further than the Itepub
llcatis did, when I hi appioted formally
of women toting, but declared it to b a
State question
With the an leal of the antis led bj
Mr, Arthur M. Dodge of New Voik. Hie
surf rage" battle lines hate been drawn
111.) the 1. solutions iiiiiiiiiillte has lis
work cut out for H
McCumbs Semis a Bid to
Colby for Progressives
t
to .loin Democrats.
KJGHT OX MARSHALL
EXDKI) BY PRESIDENT
Br.van Ready to Speak in
Convention; Will Stump
for Ticket.
BALTIMORE SCARS
STILL IX EVIDKXCE
Party Leaders Worried
Over Signs of United Sup
port for 0.0. P. Team.
bV, Ixit'is. June 13. Secretary of War
Raker's arrival bete to-night ended the
movement Marled by ome of the Dem
ocratic leaders to Insert In the platform
a plank condemning Charles Kvans
Hughes for resigning from the Supreme
court w run for tho residency
Secretary Hakcr gate the leader, to
understand that Piesldent Wllison was
opposed to any such platform 'declara
tion. The President as well rut many
of the leaders here realizes that an at
tack of this character would be weak
ened by the lecord of the Democratic
party Itself In having called Judge Alton
H, Parker fiom the !ourt of Appeals
of New York State In ISO I.
The little prospect that ex.sted for
a small Mzed tight lu the convention
disappeared to-day. Many of the Demo,
cratlc statesmen had counted on Col.
William J. llrynn to raise a sufficient
fuss over preparedness to enliven the
proceedings, nt least of the committer
on resolutions, which frames the paity
platform.
Mr. Hr.tan disappointed his Dcnei
cratlc brethren when hi; got heie to-day
by nnuounclng once and for all that
he did not Intend "to Marl anything"
at this gathering of tho Democrat.
He will not even lodge a protect be
fore the platform committee He Is
i.cre meielv as
reporter and Intend"
Oontlne his efforts to that Joli
unless
the convention should Invite him to de.
liver a perfectl' harmless speech as
j a personal compliment.
Third Pi.rlJ l ,lill Wilson.
i Mr. Hryan also put an end to the
I talk that has existed of the possibility
I of his lending a pacifist p.irt.t with
I Henry Kord. The Commoner made It
1 known that he stands for the reelection
of President Wilson and that he is pre
I pared to take his coat off and do a
lot of speech making next fall If the
p.irt.t leaders want him
The ilearln up of Mr Hrvan n'.-ii-
llons has deepened the iiuand.il.t la
'which the party leaders lltul thenisiitet-
1 over plans for t n-tug tdioir. which beg.n
1 lo-inoiiotv They hate got to string the
convention out until Saturday noon In
order to collect the SHmi.iiiim in.u St
Louis put up to get the convention b'lt
for the lite of them thet can't Hume out
how they are going to inject ni. life
and ginge r Into the proceedings Hi as
bands, flags and 1'ourth of .lul.t oiato.y
are the nrilnstays of the contention
managers, now that Iti.van has. gan.
back on them.
Serious attent.oii w ne.ng given b.v
lhe Deinooiatic Uade.s 10 wut.s and
means of entlc!n the disunite ted Pro
gressives Into the Democratic camp.
National Cliaiiiiian William l: Mc-
, ,.,,,, ,,,,,, n,llnt,ndgc Colli, of
1 Vw. vr. an tiivitatli to J.vn the
t),.,m,r.,tl. ,,.,,-tj The McConibs te.i-
giam reiul
I have read tour statement I' ap
pears that Col Itnosetelt means to
wend his funnel enthusiastic follow ei
stumbling to destiui'tlon Tin pro
gressie I leiniicrai't cordially and
sincerely ofTets them s,fet
l.lltle II.m of Mt'rKrr,
Mo-l of the Dcuioctalie leadci are
of the opinion, howevei, that the paity
cannot afford to make ,in serious .on.,
niltmetit on principles in bi-Jdmg foi lhe
Ptogr.sive tote It was pointed i-nt
that the Hull Miioeis and lhe I'cnio
I i rats dlffci so rid., all. on questions lilie
the tai ff and pii paridiiess that t.ie l,.t-
' l oiini '"'r aneinpi u u'.-oiicne ince
I ' llft,M ""'r's, '" ' l'1;,,f""" , '"vlar.itio.i.
! h", '"T" 11 ,'" t '""'""1- - hk? ,
,1" ,l" ''..sed , lilefly on t he personality
' '".'' ' "f ,""l'"t '
The calm that has settled over the
, '''"'" ralic hosts became Jbe more
inaiked when a l Ike hood of a tango
over the Vtc.'-Piesldency was clliiiinnted.
I The Wilson Administration made known
it ilesue to hate Thouia It. Marshall
of Indiana tenoiiunatcd, and what ptes;.
dent Wilson wants is being done m St.
Iaiii. without question or suggestion.
The entire proceeding is being run Horn
lhe White House, and this fact wan all
lhe more iipiiai.nt utter Sccietar.t Haker
arrived with the platfoim and the flnal
distinctions a to what lhe partt leaders
liould do
i Mr Haker himself 1 nptlt turned
I Hie hose on the Vlce-Preslilential hnoni
ivthi.ii Henry Mnrgentliau of New Yntlt
had stinted for lhe Societal- of War
Uopcr Sullivan's suppruter fnun 1 'ooi
county are still shouting Ins name mi
decorating th" town with S11M1t.n1
posters, but no serious headwav is b...
Ing mail.' Marsnall will b nn mini
with Wilson
Pie Counter 'ill In .leopard,
Western and Northern Democrats who
hat.- gather, d In St Louis are 1101 .11 all
optimistic over tin' outlook The South
ern delegate who lire out for a holiday
and ' conlldeni of the rutin u an 1
burdeii.il with any anxiety, hut the
Democrats from the North and South
plainly ioalli:. that their sal at the
patronage pic counter aie m Jmpa dv
11ml they are not enjoying the fesiivil
that St, Loins has provided
They complain of
Kilos... eu .
shameful treatment o
The outlook foi ,1 iir
pulillrnn f ciioiis li is
Progress), e.s
the two l!c
M and d.h-
I'llliililiiWmilMtil'illliiWi.-,
VIJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ e SBK BBBBBj
