?W%? *
j
? ?; ?? vjji ? Wt'XVrVy^v
i ?? wit "tiinr nwpnn1 v ?:?T~r' v ?? ? " " ~
What to Wear
.And How to Wear It?On (he
Woman's Page Daily
-?f
r*
? . ^'*'
06th YEAR
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate anc
Ccurt News in The T.-D.
vol,l,.mb oa
M M iikit l?5
RICHMOND, VA.. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 1916.?SIXTEEN PAGES.
u i: ai'iiioh r,* \ i o
i?\ai: i> ? ? ?
PRICE. TWO CENT?
UNITED STATES
CARRIES NO CHIP
OU ITS SHOULDER
But It Is Ready to Fight
When Battle Is Needed
for Justice.
PRESENT PARAMOUNT DUTY
IS TO BE FULLY PREPARED
President Wilson Tells Military
Acadcmy Graduates of Amer
ican Ideals.
WANTS NO Hl.rSTRKIVG NATION
Address Huns Throuirli I.lst of Sub
.|ort?j Discussed by Repub
lican Candidate.
WKST POINT. X. v.. Jun* 13?Ad
s.-iri:: the graduating class at the
1 ? r,l States Military Academy here
? '-'liy President Wilson touched on
'ir.r-st ?i 11 the subjects discussed hv
'?jrmcr Justice Hughes in his tcleicrani
?'?I'tlKff the Republican nomination,
?rd alluded to Americanism. militar
Ifm. preparedness. peace, war. and
?her topics of pressing lnt?-r?-st.
He told the graduates th*t th^v
'? .?c i "many extraordinary possibili
"'?(?i.'ausc no ore could t.-ll wjiat
immediate future is going to be.
'I?h?r (f) t|,r. history of this country
' the history of :h" world. It <?.
-<-.?*nt 1 r i .;??-?? r?ti v- duty of A tr.er!< \
'o in prepared. he ?r\i<l, to roe that no
1" mars tin civilization sh<> has
i: up. "id. l.eir.jr Its, If again."'.
''?rVrcnc.- from th- outside, add
its f.irr,- is v?iititr t<. b<- behind
?- r.-.o:al :d< a. and mankind !s going
know that when Amcrlra *p< r,ks
<? ti.it sh? SRVS "
I N'TKD *?'! AT|-:?i SIMM I.f) NOT
Hi: IIM STKItlNI. \\IIO\
Hi- l'r.-?!d?nl ,sald tho fl'ited States
j.d :;-.t l... t Mustering t.-itlon. a
? i- ri wiM; chip on its shoulder."
' ' - ? ?lin nation, which w.ll withhold
? hind .<s long as possible and strik?
? * ' > r v l. ? t o r j
' K:r.t his 'in get emphat: ? IIv
1 ?'??nt Mi" eradu.it. of Mie
'..it: Acad<m> and a Urge .iuiIWt:'.
" ?! t rnbody who does i.(,t pin Ari ? ?! . t
? an be tolerated. ] {?? ..<1<IC<1.
that true Americans .-Mould
' a good example.
"he President declared th< pr<<ent
not cine by accident hut that
had t<-. come The Cnited Static
? mts not h I r.K from Europe, h- .said,
i . <1 there is nothing she wants what.
>hf must get b\ war Me .miiii wed a
??.'<r:iinK that no man ran tost what
?' e next day u iJi hrinp f..rth m the
< r'u s event*.
"he word "A meri'-anihrti ' used
-day by the Pn-sideut t->r ?ii<? first
?'?ne in re<*,,t addr<>??=e.s He .orstant
referrcd to the West Point grnd
? t ? tc. whom h>- was hut
. rr<-d n;<>r<- to nationui .?ri<! m'.er*
. "ton.il problems. He warned the
t radu.itt-s apainKt lnliltaris:r. The
. < /1>1. ' s spee.-h was frerjue-ulv m
??rruiited l>y applause. ,k n<i he was
< 1 -eered as h<- ootK^uded.
OF nK'SroVSIIill.I'l'Y
O.NI.Y ON'KN THAT fOlVT
The text of the President1* speech
foi io ws ?
?"! look upon this body <.f ir.-?ti
< re nraduar.inc to-day with a pe,:tiiiar
?f rest I feel like eongrat u!:i;)i;e
t. <-!r that they are living irs day
: ? only so Interesting because fraught
with change, but al.s<. be aus? so re
r; o.nsihle I>ays of responsibility are
tro only days that count in tinte, be
r.'.Mfc they are. the only days that pive
test of quality. They are the only days
vhen manhood and purpose is tried out
ns if by fire.
'I need not tell you young gentle
men that you are not like an ordinary
graduating class of one of our uni
versities The men in those classes
look forward to the life which they
r.re to lead aft?r graduation, with a
rreat many questions in their mind.
Most of them do not know exactly
what their lives are going to develop
into Some of therrt do not know what
occupations they aye uoing to follow,
.*?1! of them conjecturing what will be
the line of duty an<l advancement and
tiu" ultimate goal of success for them
There is no conjecture for yot,.
Vr.u have enlisted in something that
(' <es not stop when you leave the
f ' idemy, for vou then only heRin to
T- tlize it, which then only begins to
1< liiletl with the full richness of its
meaning, and you can look forward
with Absolute certainty to the sort of
thing that you will be obliged to do.
This has always been true of
fraduating classes at West Point, but
the certainty that some of the older
< lasses used to look forward to was
i very dull certainty.
or.O DAYS IV Tin: AltMr
NOT VKIIV INTKllKSTIVfi
?.<me. of the old days In the army,
I fancy, were not very Interesting
day? Sometimes men like the present
< hifif of staff, for example, could nil
ilieijr lives with the interest of really
k..owing and understanding the Indians
<>r the Western plains, knowing what
,?.v.s going on inside of their minds and
being able to be the intermediary be
tv.-e.i them and those who dealt with
them by speaking their sign language,
could enrich their lives, but the/ordin
ary lite of an ordinary oflicer at a
Western post could not have been very
ex itlng, and.I think with admiration
of those dull years through which of
i:-crs who had not a great deal to do
insisted, nevertheless, upon being ef
firient and worth while, and keeping
their men fit at any rate for the duty
to which they were assigned.
"But in your case there are many j
extraordinary possibilities, bocause,
(Continued, on"Third Page?) " "
. ''r.nn/! t',p sl?.v" KxcuiHlon, >Tunc jr..
AM trains, 1R-?t?y limit. $in. Ashovllle. Hiack
Mountain; til. Hundtroonvllle, llot Sorinc*
T~":
FUND OF 1100,000
| STARTS CAMPAIGN
Announcement Made on Eve of
, Launching Work to Aid Me
morial Hospital.
;need additional $150,000
Prominent Men and Women
Pledge Support at Banquet
at Jefferson Hotel.
It was announced last night by John
Kerr Branch, chairman of tho cam
palgn committee attempting to raise
$250,000 for th? onlnrgpmont of the
Memorial Hospital, including tho build
ing of a hospital for .colored people, a
pavilion for the treatment of contagi
ous dlsownes and a nurses' home, that
already $100,000 hnd been raised toward
tho fund. The only single donation
whli'h wa? mentioned. vns that of
Major James 11. l?ooley, of S40.000.
The announcement camo near the close
of the banquet held hi the auditorium
of the JefTerron Hotel, when 4QO of
Richmond's best known men and
women gathered to discuss plans for
tho campaign which begins uctively
: o-day.
The workers will go upon the streets
of the city early this morning. Already
a list of 15,000 names has been tabu
lated and properly Indexed and Is ready
to be handed out to th? workers. Tho
City will be divided tip among tho
workers to tho end that every citizen
will have the privilege of contributing
to this fund. Each day there will Vie a
luncheon at 1 o'clock at the campaign
headquarters. Kast Main .Street. At
this time the workers will compare
iiotos ;?n<l announce result.*.
M\von oi tmves neeii
FOH OIGCKR HOSPITAL
The banquet was presided over by
Congressman A. .1. Montague, who was
Introduced by Dr. J. Allison Hodges,
chairman of the arrangements commit
tee. In his opening remarks, Congress
man Montague said:
"Cities are the Index of the coun
tries in which they are situated. We
do not know niu h of the people in
the country around Hahylon. but we
!o know a irrc.it deal about tho people
that -!t\ Krai re perhaps, is not
so well known as !.?- Paris. London is.
better know:' than Knglarvl, Herlin than
? ??'iniai > Hi'' i ll.i h*i '?::d, the capi
ta! of tit State, arul once <>f a_nation,
bis .. i?? :Il.tr personality nil its own.
UU )-.in? ? i :s w < 11 kr.owti far from h*;r
? ''it ' 1 ? ? i Tin- .na of this hospital
i.? not so n icii of .i help t i the doctors,
a.- it i- that It gives the doctors the
ability tci help tiie people."
Iri introducing Mayor George Ainslle,
Mr. Al.?n t n a niiouiioe?j tiie re-election
of tin- .Mayor as chlcf executive officer
? >f thi ? ? x t \ Miyor Ainslie xj.okc for
a fev iniii':t? s on the need of the en*
? '?rgement Of tiie hospital along the
lines contemplated.
"1'eople are tliscussing what is and
what is not a 'necessity' Just at this
time 1 want to sav that a contagious
hospital is a necessity In 1014 there
?v.-i e l>3i! cases of contagious dls
cjM'f iii Richmond, in 1:?15 there were
??ontagimis cases heie This year,
alre.H.i;. >j3r. casts of meisles have heen
reported. Thirty-seven per cent of
the population is colored, ar.d to show
you how badly the colored people need
a hospital 1 will give some statistics.
Tuberculosis last year killed 110 white
people ar.il 27." negroes; pneumonia
killed IIS white people and 317 ne
groes. "ill other diseases of the respira
tor:. organs killed 153 white people
MtW IT lO PEOPLE
AINSLIE DECLARES
"The terms Richmond and success are
synonymous. If we. want this hospital
wc can have it. it is not. can we have
{ it. but shall we have it?"
Thomas I*. Moore told of his con- j
| neotlon with hospitals iti the city for j
the past ten years.
"We have but fifty-seven beds for
negroes, and they are all in the. base
ment." he said. "We have ground
1 enough, but what we need is money.
It takes big money to do big things,
and money nowadays doesn't go as fat
as it used to This idea of enlarging
' the hospital is a civic, idea. Richmond
: is pulling together for Richmond, and
having the women with us means that
j we will succeeed."
In his opening remarks. John Stewart ?
! Bryan said that the two people who
couldn't be trusted lo make mistakes
was a man's doctor and his chauffeur.
"Let them experiment on other peo
ple," he said. "We don't want them
; experimenting on us. We wart them
to have the best facilities there are
for the treatment of the sick. How do
we expect to have educated physicians
if we do not build large hospitals
w herein the young men of the land can
be trained bv expert surgeons?
"The security, of a city depends upor
. its schools, its churches and its hos
, pita Is. We speak of it as Memorial
Hospital. Memorial means memories?J
something that has already happened.
What we menu is 'Immunity' hospital
where we can take care of time, bac
teria and microbes."
Dr. George. Ben Johnston said that I
l a city depends upon tho nature and;
! quality of its public utilities. He spoke;
at some length on tho eradication of;
i yellow fever, of typhoid fever and of
I tho cure of tuberculosis. "How* could j
; these things have been accomplished.'
i ho said, "without hospital facilities and:
| funds with which the work might, have;
j been carried on?"
; CO-OPEUATIO.Y \KCE8N.AII V,
SAYS MRS. Jirxroill) I
Mrs. H. R. Munford spoke on the civic I
I strength secured iti such moves.
"Nothing more fortunate can happen
; to a city," she said, "than for the citi
jzens-jto engage in a co-operative ef
j ort of some, kind and which is for the
! Humnon good. I "went, down the street
1 lie day after it was a settled fact that
I we were to get the regional reserve
^nmk. and I noticed the fueling of
(Continued on Twelfth Pago.)
Leaders in Campaign to Raise $250,000 for Enlargement of Memorial Hospital
ki'PA iivntov, jh.
dll. stl"art mefirih".
l. morris*
mow (;i:oitr;r. w. aioiiamki., n. n. william t. rued.
K. I.. DISMISS.
H!TII MAJORITY OF II
Former Alderman acid Democratic
Committee's XomiiiPc Goes to
Council From .Jefferson Ward.
HIVA li CAURIKS O\I0 PRECINCT
Election Otherwise Is Without Fea
ture?Socialists Make Poor Show
ing?Only Fraction of Vote Conic*
lo I'olls?Day Passes (Quietly.
I.iy an unofficial majority of 103 votes,
former Alderman John K. Grimes won
out. in yesterday's* election over Cap
tain James T. lJailey in Hie hotly wagpil
Jefferson 'Ward contest for th? tifth
scat in the Common Council, which was
left without :i Democratic nominee
when George H. I.uiiik'Iimi died within
three days ;ifter winning place in the.
primary of April 4. Mr. Grimes polled
a total of .SSI votes to CSS votes polled
by his opponent, carrying1 five of the
seven precincts.
In only one precinct?the Fourth
ill <1 Captain Kailey tie.st his opponent
and there only by four votes. In the
Sixth Precinct the candidates split even
each pqlling forty-six voles.
In an election marked by singular;
apathy, (lie Grimes-Bailey contest was
the outstanding feature. Mr. Grimes
was ilie regularly named candidate of
the City Democratic Committee and, as
such, the standard bearer of the organ-;
ized party forces. Captain Kailey, who
was brought out by voters who were
dissatisfied with the committee's selec-j
tion, ran as an independent Democrat.
socialist <;i;ts :ias
Ot'T OK VOTKS
Mayor Ainslie, Democrat, won easily
over Frank A. Cosby, Socialist, who;
polled. 325 votes of the total of 3,8(18
that were cast for both candidates.
I'onding an oftlciul canvass of tjm ro
(Coullnued on Thirteenth Page.)
Unless Conditions Force
Action, Note to Carranza
Will Be Held Until
After Convention.
WASHINGTON, Juno U rules* the
increasing: seriousness of conditions in
Mexico forces action sooner, 'lit- m'ply
t<> General Carranzn's demand for
withdrawal of Anierioan troops prob
ably will ho delayed until after the
St. Louis convention. because the ad
minislration desires to avoid any dras
tic step at a time when it might ap
pear to ho prompted hy political in
fluences.
Secretary Lansing atid his advisers
are said to have given careful con
sideration to the possibility that the
administration might he Charged with
playing: polities in dealing with tlto
problem. The rapid spread of anti
American propaganda in Northern
Mexico, however, coupled with itnreas
ingl> grave, economic conditions. may
take the situation out of their hands.
Ml OKI'ICIAI* Wll.l. .
VH.VTl III-: I'lllOUlf'TIOXS
No oflieia 1 %vr?uld venture a prodi
tion to-night as to what might he ex
pected in the Immediate future, in
(ommon with sobie consuls in Mexico,
they believe aImosjkjiny eventuality Is
j 'sslhle with .agitates working on the
1 clings of a people already distressed
uy the fruits of prolonged disorder.
It h i:; stated positively that the Wash
ij' st'tii government yas considering u<>
aggressive anion to Itn taken of its !
own motion, httt stood ready to act
should assaults on Americans or an
? attack on General Pershing;'*' forces
force the issue. ,
State Department to-day re
ceived confirmation of the identifica
tion of one of the Mexicans killed in
the Colcrnan ranch raid as Lieutenant
Colonel Villarca!. of the ("auanza
'army It is understood the develop
?ineiil immediately was called to (Jen- i
era! Carmnza's attention, but officials j
were inclined not to fiive it special sig
nificance ptnding an explanation from
tiie dc facto government. The loose
control of the Carranza commanders
over their men is one of the compli
cating factors with which the admin- ,
iii ration has heen confronted all
along.
A sharp rejoinder is being prepared ;
to the Carranza note. It will repeat
the determination of President Wilson
to keep American troops in .Mexico!
until the i.'arranza forces have shown
t'leir ability and intention properly to
police the border states. Tt will also
rehukft the d<- facto government for
the surest ions and il'.atcmcnts in its
note, <iuestioninjf the good faitli of the
'.Vashiiigton admltiistration. Some of
fi. tais, r<ivArt5rd parts of the note as in- :
ioilUnjf \y? a degree not.to be tolerated,
(Continued on 'OjEilnl Pane.)
! Thru Train to Buffalo l.ifliin Springs, '
J I.eave Kb-hntond ;l I' .\f., urrtvo Liuffulo.
t .function 7..'>T< I'. M., dully, t<xcc)it Sunday, j
' Vl!>lt tilts delightful resurt. SOUTHlCitN
It AIL. WAY.?Adv.
REVOLT IN CONVENTION
i
Sa\ s lie Will Take No l?nrl. in Meet
ing Kxoi?|?t as Newspaper
Corn'siKindt'iil.
LIKKf.Y T(? AIMOI HX OX PltlilAY
Virginia Delegation Heaclies St.
l.ouis, and Members Koreive
lladi>es?Stuart Named as One of
Honorary Viee-1 'residents.
in ( l{ \IU.KS !?". IIASIlltOOK.
ST. I-OIMS, MO., Juno 13.- ?Another
Republican dream was shattered to-day
when WMlianr J. liryan calmly an
nouneed that ho would load no revolt
against the renomlnntlon of Pi esident
Wilson, tin* reuomlnat ion o( Vicu-Presi
dent. Marshall or the adoption ol" an
A in erica nism pin t form.
tt had been a much-cherished delusion
on the part of Republican leaders that
Mr. Hryan would maUu serious trouble
for the President's friends in the l'emo
cratic National Convention, and even
miKht demand the door in order to
voice views hostile to one or more of
tin* plans that have been made for 'lie
inauguration of the Wilson ?.:<mpaitrn.
It now develops that the Nebrasluin
will not participate in the convention,
except as a newspaper correspondent,
lie s.iid as much himself this morning
shortly after his arrival In Ujls city
Least of all is there any intention
on the part of Mr. Itryan to head n
ticket of his own. lie said nothing
specific about rhis for publication, but
has ronlided the fact to his friends
that nothing is now further from his
thoughts. He may have his sliortcom
inps. but party irregularity is not one
of them. He Is in no sense a bolter :
If he had heed, he would have had
ample pretext in 1904, when Alton B
Parker was nominated, and when thn ?
^ (Continued on Second Page.)
BOOMS FADE AWAY
WHEN WORD COMES
President's Wishes Are Gai
ned to Convention by Sec
retary of War Baker.
PROGRAM OF HARMONY
FIRMLY ESTABLISHED
All Preconvention Discord Will
Have Vanished When Mc
Combs Drops His Gavel.
WILSON* SENDS 'OWN" PLATFORM
Party Leaders Export That It Will
Hp Practically Vn
cIianRol. /
ST. J.OflS. MO. .Tunc IS.?Arrival
here to-night nf Secretary of War
Newton D. Raker. President "Wilson's
personal representative, bearing the
President's "own" draft of the ;ilat
form and tlie news that he desired
the renomination of Vice-President
Marshall, firmly established the har
mony program for the Democratic Xa
tional Convention, which opens to
morrow.
When Chairman Mi-Comb?, of th?
Democratic National Committee, lots
his gavel sound tit noon to-morrow,
leaders expect all preconvention dis
cord to lie blended in one harmonious
note. A program upon both (he presi
dential and vice-presidential nomina
tions and the platform as well ap
parently has been ucreed vipun by
the leaders.
v 1 <:ir.-rit 1:s 11 jf.\t 1 a 1, noons
HAVE FADKI) AWAY
Vice - presidential booms. around
which must of the preconvention fights
have centered, faded away to-night
under influence of the personal mes
sage from the White House that the
President desfred v?Mr. Marshall again
as his running mate.
Secretary Baker also effectually dis
posed of the vice-prcatdential boom in
his own behalf, which had attained
prominence in the belief in some quar
ters that Mr Marshall lacked genuine
administration support.
"The President is for the nomina
tion of Vice-President Marshall," was
the emphatic statement to-night of
Secretary linker. "So far as 1 know
the President has not considered any
other nominee. As to the movement
started in my behalf. I am for Mr.
Marshall. I ran In a popular primary
pledged to support Mr. Marshall, and
obviously could not allow myself to
be considered."
The President's own draft of the
platform?a single copy said to have
been typewritten by himself?will be
delivered by Mr. Baker to Senator
?Stone, of Missouri, chairman-to-be of
the resolutions committee. Little
change in it is anticipated. Mr. Baker
sald he. came here as the means of
communication between the commlt
te <*>-thri convention and the. President.
WIM, DWELL O.N PEACE,
PREPAREDNESS AND PROSPERITY
Although Mr. Baker declined to
night to disclose the President's plat
form views, it was learned that the
platform will dwell principally "on
peace, preparedness for peace, and
prosperity."
Despite agitation by some Demo
cratic leaders. President Wilson, it is
said, disapproved Insertion of a plank
criticizing the nomination of a Su
preme Court justice for President or
favoring a constitutional amendment
prohibiting justices from seeking other
public Federal offices.
The President desires adoption of a
platform so progressive that it will
appeal to and attract members of the
Progressive party, but without an
open, direct invitation to the Progres
sives to swing their strength to the
Democratic ticket, it was learned.
As to woman suffrage, it was learned
the platform probably will suggest
that the women continue their efforts
for the ballot in 1 he respective State?.
The principal planks, It was authori
tativoi> stilted, will deal with the ad
ministration's trials and achievements
<11 handling international and Mexican
affairs, its raidtl and deliberate step3
towards "preparedness for peace" and
the record of economic and industrial
legislation contributing to general pros
perity.
a<;<;kessii e < a>ipai<;\
FOR Wit,SON IS PLANNED
Secretary Baker also brought Infor
mation regarding the aggressive cam
paign planned in behalf of Mr. Wil&on,
The country is to be covered by lead
inu Democratic orators. Vice-Presi
dent Marshall. Secretary Baker, Secre
tai v Kane, Senator James, of Kentucky,
Representative Kltchin. of North Caro
lina; Senators l.ewis. Mollis, Reed and
<>wen and others from both Senate and
House will be among the ^peakeru
The President bail not decidcd on
the part be will play in the campaign,
according to Secretary Maker
Mr I taker was besieged to-night for
information regarding the probable
campaign manager, the chairman of
the national committee.
? It became known that Colonel House,
the President's closest personal friend
and adviser, and Fred B. Lynch, of
Minnesota, national committeeman, S
Imvo been practically eliminated fr^m
consideration. Colonel House, jr. was
said, was asked - by the Piculdent to
