BSWiBB
NIGHT
EXTRA
Ctmtinn
FINANCIAL EDITION
ijlttttt
VOL. II.-NO. 235
ONE "ISM," CRY
OF DEMOCRATS
AT CONVENTION
Americanism the Issue, Says
McuomDs in mo i-ieu-ing
Address
confident OF, VICTORY
f
'LonzLive the Eagle," Cries Na-
tional unairmuu "
fication Meeting"
. By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
bt. LOUIS. Juno 14. "Democracy's mass
MIflcatlon meeting," as the 1010 convention
M the party now In power In tho nation
?wlll bo known In history, got under way
fn an atmosphoro of enthusiasm and con
Went determination. From tho moment
Br.t wniinm P. McComos, cnairman or
gflhe National Committee, called tho opening
gksslon to order the outstanding note in tno
proceedings Has ono or tno- uimosi doi-
"Mttrency and entlro commence.
" t.- ...1 l nlnln frnm flirt nlltoAf
ft ICV-oni"3 liuvuu ii. ,,..... ...... - w-v..
Sthat ho and his associates expect victory
Sirf Kovsmber. He. together with Tcm-
Immrv chnlrman Mnrtln H. Glynn, the key-
Jiioter, praised tho national Administration's
acts in tho strongest oi languHgo unu de
fended It from tho assaults made upon It
Jatt week In Chicago.
M'COMBS' ADDRHSS.
It was Just 12:31 when McComhs stepped
to tho spenkcr'B rostrum and smnshed down
the gacl calling tho convention to order.
The national chairman, whoso work four
years ago made the clcctlpn of President
Wilson possible and who was now retiring
voluntarily from that post, was given a
warm reception by the assembled delegates.
He spoke In part as follows:
"Ladles and Gentlemen of tho Conven
tion: Wo are In an atmosphtro of victory.
We have no feeling of guess, but a spirit
of certainty. We meet to colcbrato tho
great achievements of tho Democratic party
since It came Into power, and to placo a
milestone upon tho path of its futuro suc
cess, "We have recently witnessed tho pain
ful spectacle of two great American parties
at Chicago putting self In place of Ideals;
elf-glorlficatlon In place of national honor;
republicanism, and progresslvism so called,
in place ofour only 'Ism' Americanism.
"We have witnessed tho drab spectacle of
two groups of men. trading principles llko
competitors In a fish market. In tho hope
that come compromlso would win public
support. They .have not como together
they have fallen.out over tho1 'swag.'
WELCOME FOR PROGRESSIVES.
TVe wefcome the pent-up Americanism of
Die real Progressives individually to our
ranks, offering them a-Tiavon in principle.
Their leader has abandoned them with
gross cruelty. N
"This Is a crucial hour In tho history of
ithe world. It Is an hour when overy man
f Should, take stock of himself and his prln-
loptes. Tnis is an hour when every one
fihould ,bco whether In his inner consclous
s Wss he souares with tho Ideals of 177G. nnd
f tie-later periods of dramatic episode, vvjien
lhlft Pmintrv rnanlntnlv mqlntnlnail nortf
'with honor.
FRIENDLY WITH THE WORLD.
"The Democratic party, in the fnco of
scandalous and vicious attack?, has main
tained this great American Ideal. Whllo
for peace, it has steadily and surely worked
for sound and powerful preparations. It
has maintained a solemn, calm dignity in
the face of .circumstances which might have
drawn It Into tho vortex of a world destruction.
"ThOUEh Vllllfled hv mir.R,keri Ir Vina
maintained friendly relations throughout tho
eWorld: it has hean trtiA n ,. r,l.f tf
),Amerlcanism j It has been true to tho great
7.uiupieB or, vvasnington, Jefferson, Madi
. ton and Jackson; it has allowed no selfish
rlfltarpief in tlln.i t. . .,.- ...jl1, . . -
IS Vi.i. " ii iu mo tunqamemais or
If iSi -"i and tho country has found that
iirj'"aence nas been we bestowed.
. . . DemocratIo party has proved Itself
iiJ?.wiuf prlncPIei a party of construc
tive ability, a party of performances. It
ihH.i?wed. that ldeals can bV realized,
united we Btand for Amni '
'Ladles and Erentinmnn nf ut ..... ..
I'3!?i,on; the 'ePnt and tho moose are
(Ceaa, Long live the American ,..i."
FUIXiADELFHIA, "WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 1U1G.
COrraioiiT, 1010, sr the Posmo Licoee Courisr.
NIGHT
EXTRA
PIIIOE ONE CENT
HOISTING LOUISIANA FLAG ON INDEPENDENCE HALL
H IHtepaiKIHHiB?4j lJZ-i1"; vc'v tut'ywtt.t u . . - .. . , . r -- - --' '
i r )g tstrji i . IHPJL ,
Scene nround the Washington statue on the Chestnut street side when"
Mayor Smith pulled the emblem to the top of tho flagpole after ap
propriate ceremonies.
'LAST DITCH FIGHT
TO PUNISH 'DOPE'
PEDDLING GANG
Dr. "William B. Holcomb on
Trial for Making an
Alleged Sale
PROSECUTION UNDAUNTED
Captain Tate's Forecast
on Spread of Dope Use
Decision of United States Su
preme Court affecting Harrison nar
cotic act is foul beginning of moral
leprosy.
Wholesale sudden deaths on
streets among drug users directly
due to the use of cocaine and other
,drugs.
Increase in crime in Tenderloin.
Crimes among juveniles will in
crease, t
PRESIDENT HEADS
FLAG DAY PARADE
OF PREPAREDNESS
First Chief Magistrate o
Lead Washington Proces
sion Afoot
CARRIES
'OLD GLORY"
Long live tho American eagle.
TEMPOnAItY OFFICERS.
i!!5 ?Jt' McCmba concluded ha an
nounced tha RftlfieHnn s, 1.A Kr.l i n
v.m? bS temporary officers of the con
tention, as follows:
tnairman Martin II. Qlynn.
secretary -J.nnii.. v
: f&!"nt"a,t'armBJohn I. Martin.
PHf,i00r.keeper Charles A. White.
p Omclal reporter Louis Qraust.
ttotF IIeId in Deth of Marine
eVttlrv rT"' ol -amaen; rranK
rand L, fMDr?ad ftreet above Somerset.
llOth .! 'I ' " years -ld' 633 North
IUonHh h,w5 ere arrested In connec
Rmirii- t.,8.teatJ?u0f Wal,er Runestrand,
lho athe PhadPhla Navy Yard
EaSB:?-IaVl yfterday afternoon In the
IrS. nr.. '""lai. wre held by Magls
yiorning, to await tho mi.. .u- ,
U hS.marine's deatn ,s beeved by the'
JPOllce to have been due to "done."
THE WEATHER
, tlapolnesa u a bj.i. u.i
. "bile on on. Inrt ,A1 "'S.. ?' ."
mfotr riSS"! !. to. another.
tbla retit I... ' ""'! u ma ume. Jn
-1, . '"Pect lt'g somethlnsr lit- .v.. . .
aifL Nnn, -I,- ...... " '"D ouiuuioi
Wirt. nd h ii "n you and "ow Bhe
SmtfhJ JShtt m'0w. 1,h the automobile,
tit S !,. I'oitally, wo wl have to
ffiwui ifr iV a contrvanc8 which aet
DeJoltl ih. lr " ,wa want to be content
mI. tha Promlsea of yesterday we re.
W Tanddaa,y & A M;
Po,,hiyaLf,nltlck arpnnd for a while.
K-j!1'. ""U how off becauM thi ,-!
, .... .-.". ....
Undaunted by Judgo Thompson's adverse
deelslon In tho Martin and Jtowan cases,
United States District Attorney Knno be
gan trial today In tho case of Dr. William
B. Ilolcomb, hecusod of-selllng drugs with
out a Government order. Thla prosecution
Is along linos different from, those ruled
upon adversely to tho Government, and tho
District Attorney Is hopeful of a convic
tion. In Instances' similar to those of Mar
tin and Itowan, the District Attornoy will
probably enter rccoras or noiio prosequi.
Before opening the trial of Doctor Hol
comb tho District Attornoy today asked
Judge Thompson to invite Judge Dickin
son, his' colleague on mo uisinci iourt
bench, to sit with him In the next drug
peddling case. Mr. Kano was In tho hope
that a conference on tho Judges' combined
views might favor the Government conten
tions. Judgo Thompson took a brief re
cess while he conferred with Judge Dickin
son, but on reconvening court said that tho
Judges could Bee no reason why both of
them should bo present nt the same trial,
but that each caso would bo tried -on Its
own merits.
"If lludge Thompson's ruling in the Mar
tin and novvan caBes holds good," Bald Ml
Kane today, "the Government will bo un
able to reach illicit dealers, peddlers and
'men higher up.' Tho decision of Judgo
Thompson is of vast Importance both to
tho Government nnd to those under Indict
ment for violating tho Harrison law. The
more I think of the decision, tha more
serious tho situation seems to be, and I am
determined to fight every case to tho last
ditch."
MORE VIOLATION'S FEARED.
The decision of the United States Su
preme Court declaring Section 8 of the
Harrison narcotic act unconstitutional will
,,ni,v,ieHiv lend to a wider use of drugs
and an Increase In crime In this city, said
Captain of Detectives Tate today,
Captain "Tate said he has received In
formation' that cocaine, morphine and other
drugs were being carried on tho persons of
habitual uses of, drugs more freely than
ever before.
Section eight of the Harrison act made It
punishable to have dope on one's person.
The recent ruling of the United States Su
preme Court eat forth that Jt wasn't an
offense to have dope In possession, but was
punishable for any person found using It.
SEES CRIME WAVE.
'The decision the way It stands now,"
said Captain Tate, "after rollcall In the de
tective bureau today, "is the foul beginning
of moral leprosy. Tho decision means that
any cocaine peddler in the tenderloin, can
walk about tha streets. and sell his stuff
lo unfortunates without any fear of being
prosecuted. Should a peddler be arrested
and placed on trial, he can, through his
K &? SS Eras
POPPfJOTI
LFor Philadelohin j ...--.-.-i..
?A?M.?Avrfc
&Sfis
LOST AND FOTJNTv
EnKr ft ,8f,L. v
in . - iu a auuin
'? Tuutr ISSd-"? V" 'K &.rtrth
J-H aaj 4BWU A4l v
i.W" -
iil aoiun
Continued on Pate Tlircg. Column Two
ADDS $444 TO CONSCIENCE FUND
Catholic Priest Acta for Man Who
Said He Owed; City Debt and
Wanted It Paid
i naihnUf. orlest. connected With one of
the churches In the southern neqtlon of the
city today called at the offloa of fhe City
Treasurer In City Hall Mo was conducted
to the office of William O. Carroll,' assis
tant treasurer
The priest after promise that his
identity would not bo revealed, handed to
Mr Carroll rash to the amount of HH,
which ha said was to be applied to tha
City "Conscience Fund" The sum, the
clergyman explained, represented principal
and interest of a debt honestly, owed to, tha
city and he had been authorized to act
as the agent In the restitution.
Mr Carroll explained that if the money
was in the natura of liquidation of any
excess payment on municipal work, tha
official Sponsible and not tha city Itself
should jacjlve tha proffered cash. This
was not the case th priest declared, but
cave no detail further than to reiterate
that it waa honestly due to lh city, and, r
.resented principal of tha original debt
ilr Carroll accented the uwnay nd will
turn it over ta Uw "Coasclenca Fun4,"
By J. P. YODER
WASHINGTON, Juno 14. For tho first
tlmo in history a President of the United
Stntei today marched on foot on historic
Pennsylvania avenue as a participant In a
propaganda parade
The event wns Washington's plea for
preparedness nnd n tribute to the flag, to
day being tho anniversary of tho adoption
In 1777 by Congress of the- Stars nnd
Stripes ni tho national emblem.
.Immediately In front of tho President
was tho United States Marino Band, They
had to. sot their muslo to tho marching
cadenco tho President Bet. And It was
some cadence a mntter qf 144 steps, to the
minute, which began- the mlnuto tho pro
cession stnitrd nt 9:30 n. in.
As tho President turned west from Fif
teenth street Into Pennsylvania nvenue on
the home n'tretch, members of tho Congres
sional Union unfurled a monster banner
lettered :
"be pnnPAnCD.
IF YOU CARE ABOUT 91 ELCCTORAl.
VOTES, CONSIDEn US.
THE WOMAN'S PARTY.
As the banner spread out a number of
pretty girls yelled tho words directly nt
tho President In shrill voices. The Presi
dent took a good look at tho banner
smiled and marched on.
Tho columns rendezvoused at the Capitol
and fell In line at tha Peace Monument nt
the west front of the Capitol building
under perfect weather conditions, but soon
after a brilliant sun began to get In Its
work As the lino swung westward to
ward tfe Treasury Department thoro was
overy evidence that It would take a large
sized kerchief to keep any presidential pir
splratlon from wilting the presidential col
lar boforo the presidential feet had covered
tho dlstanco of a mllo and a half over the
burning asphalt to the reviewing stand In
front of the White House.
The President didn't seem to mind his
hlko a bit. He wnlked with a Jaunty
swing that kept the large pompous gentle
man on his left pumping tho whole dls
tanco of a mile and a half
Tho President wore a blue sergo coat,
white duck trousers and shoes, with nocks
and tie to match tho trousers, and a boyish
straw hat. Rudolph Kaufman and William
F. Gude, local celebrities, who marched on
either side of him, wore funernl frock coats
and shiny quart hats.
President Wilson carried a silk flag over
u r
Contlntwi! on Tare Six, Column Seven
FIGHTS PENNSYLVANIA
-SALE TO BETHLEHEM
HATS OFF; FLAG
RAISED ALOFT AT
LIBERTY'S SHRINE
Silk Emblem Sent by State
of Louisiana Flies
on Pole
QUICK NEWS
6000 MORE AUSTRIANS AND TOWN FALL TO RUSSIANS
FETnOOItAD, June 14. The ntuslrt'i Hoops linvo occupied today
the town of Slnyn. in Southern Onllcln, fnMttjr C00O nioie Austrian
pilsoncts. Sinyn li on tho l'tuth lUvcr, rtlvi So miles uorthwcit
of Czotnowltz.
MEN REJECT TERMS OF RAILWAY MANAGERS
NEW YOllK, June 14. The terms .of the lnllwny malinger
were rejected todny by the employes In tho coiifeieiico lelntive to till
men's ttmnntls for nn eight-hour dny nnd time rviitl n hntf for over
time. Another pioposltlon niny bo submitted loiitonow when tlin
confeience It! lcauincd.
WILSON DEMONSTRATION HFOTNS AT ST. LOUIS
ST. LOUJS. June 14 A demcnstintion wns stilted in the Dem
ocratic convention by Tempoinry Chnirmnu Glynn's declaration that
the people would indoise Picsident Wilson's foreign policy next No
vember. A pnrndc tlnough the aisles was bended by tho New Jersey
delcgats, followed by Illinois. Other dnlegntion.i joined tho piojccssion
nnd th tipionv continued for 10 minutes.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
i
yui . .cc, C-ysai -olds, 0 furlongs Spcetie, 102, Wnissher, '3 to
x, 1 to 3 and 1 to G, vcn; Mhcn, 1 10, Gainer, '& to 1, 0 to & nnd 1 to 3,
second; lieiuWci 100, Ball, 8 to 1, 5 to Si nnd even, thhrt Time, 1:1-5.
Ilany, Hudson, Clnistobcl, Eden Park nnd ."afc and Sine also ran.
SLAVS CAPTURE
6000 TEUTONS;
SMATYN TAKEN
Russian Advance Slackens.
Czernowitz Cutoff From
Austrian Galicia Army
KOVEL
THREATENED
Teutons Make Desperate Stand
on Ikwa to Prevent Further
Slavs' Progress
THRONG AT CEREMONIES
'Old Glory" Is Oldest
Among National Emblems
"To nery Amrrlrnn tho line N the mhol
or Hie nation' power, the emblem of frff
ilom In (t trucnt. lr( m.. It I not
rAtrufngnnt lo mj- thit lo nil latr nf the
rountrr It nlsnlllrn jcnirrnmtnt rrotliiK on
h jonstnl of the uv; irrii lllicrty rcmi
Jnlrd by luwj the protpftlon or thr rk
from tho lrnni security uculnit tho -rrvlw
of arbitrary noner, mill, ubunlnlr
nafcty for frcp In.iltullnn nenlnst forrlcn
OKirMPilan." Jmtlro llnrliii, In ?rbrnk
liar ciiff (S03 U, ,S. 31).
Tim Amrrlrnn Klin m udoutrd liv thr Con
BrrjH of thu Colonlrs Juno it, 1717.
Tie ling or ispuln iirt llrnt, imrd In 1783.
Tnl'."',, trt-tolor rnino Into rxMrnro In
T,'ln Yjfni"11 r0Irnl tan,,,r,, "'" rtttlllhrJ
Tho Italian n wnii flnt tlontrd In 1818.
The (rrinan Ijiuilro ramo. Into belne In IK70
Xhr llrnt Anirrlcan Hue hud 18 lrlir.i nnd
13 tors.
A Ntrlpo iind ntnr nrrr la .bo nddrd with
'Ojh Stnto iMlmlttrd , to the Union, but,
nftrr 15 fctrlprH hid bren rrarhtd. tho
iii" ' WUH r'""mrd nnd only tnr
....,.. nn .r, riirn rnirrril ine union.
4.
Nrit nrlf. nrlrlnnt.il
In 1X89. holdlne nrrrfira In
The utiirii now number 48,
r,i rnnce iioirn. or 7
I'lUB nay in IKHII,
bin free Mndersurtrn,
$157,000,000 ARMY BILL URGED BY HOUSE COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, June 14. Chairman Hay, of the House Military Affairs Com
mittee, announced thla afternoon that tho committee would make a favorable report
on the $157,000,000 army appropriation bill and that efforts would be mado to take
tho measure up In the Houso by Tuesday. It Is the largest army appropriation bill
over recommended.
Plea of Stockholder Against
Merger of 'Steel Companies
Heard in U. S. Court
The fight against the proposed sale of
the Pennsylvania Steel Company of New
Jersey and Its subsidiaries to the Bethlehem
Steel Company for $31,941,630, In the 5
per cent, gold bonds of the Bethlehem Steel
Company was carried today to the United
States Circuit Court pf Appeals b'efore
Judges McPherson, Woolley and J. Warren
Davis, recently appointed to the Federal
Court of New Jertey by President Wilson.
The hearlnfc tdday Is ort the appeal of
Clarence H. Venner. a New York banker
and owner of 3 Bhares of the stock of
the Pennsylvania Steel Company, from the
refusal of Judge Itellstab, of New Jersey,
to Issue a preliminary Injunction restrain
ing" the dissolution of the company and
its subsidiaries, for the purpose of their
sale in liquidation to the Bethlehem Com
pany in ueenmng to issue the Injunction,
hdwever. Judge Bellstab required the Beth
lehem Company and the other companlts
Imolved to deposit 110,000 In court to pro
tect the Interests of the complaining stock,
holder.
The companies In the proposed merger
are engaged In the manufacture pf war
munitions, and the stockholder, besides con
tending that the amalgamation of the com
panies woMld be a great detriment to the
stockholders of the Pennsylvania Company,
also avers that it is In violation of the Clay
ton amendment to the anti-trust laws of
New Jersey
Youth, on Vacation Job, Killed
- The vacation Job tha,t l.yar-o!d Nor
man Johnson took Jn tho C. C. Chew Tom.
pany department store In Camden cost him
his life. Johnson, who Uvea at Pensauken.
i: ?'', r"n?ln a.n "levator in the store
at 314 Market street. Camden Ho was
caugni yewruay cciween
Today, the birthday of the National Flag,
a Bala, dny throughout tho United .States,
took special form at Independence Hall, thn
cradlo of American Liberty
Formal exercises were held nt noon, when
Mayor Smith raised n Louisiana Hllk fins,
while he stood on the name spot where
Abraham Lincoln rnlsed a flap on the old
hall, one Washington's birthday In tho by
gone annals of American history
The ling, which was rnlsed by the Mayor,
was given Philadelphia by the Stnte of
Louisiana, the Pelican Stnto Tho emblem
Is of blue nnd white silk, 15 by U feet.
In the centre Is a white pelican. The flag
also bears the Stnto motto, "Justice, Union
and Confidence."
CI3HEMONV IN THU SOUTH.
At the same moment t"ie Louisiana flag
was raised on Independence Hall In this
city. Mayor Bohrman. of New Orleans,
raised nn American flag sent to thnt State
by the Citizens' Committee of Philadelphia,
Ceremonies were held In the Southern city
w'hen tho flag raising took place.
A short presentation speech was made to
Mayor Smith by J Campbell Gllmoro. In
behalf of the Citizens' Committee, nnd the
Mayor replied with an appropriate speech,
citing the historic value of Independence
Hall and emphasizing the aproprlateness
of having such a Hag raising on tho birth-
uay or ine national flag
This afternoon, at 4:15 o'clock, 35 new
patrols of BoysScouts, of Philadelphia,
will receive Hags at Independence Hall
Scout Executive Walter S. Cowing will
preside: Mrs. Thomas Potter. Jr., Itegent
of the P. A, II , will present the (lags to the
SONNINO AND MORRONE TO STAY IN ITALIAN CABINET
IlO.MB, Juno II. .Bai'on Sidney Sonnlno, Italian Minister of Koregn Affairs,
nnd Gcnctal Morrono, Minister of War In the Salandra Ministry, reclined, aro likely
to retain their places In the new Ministry which will be formed by "Paolo HosscllI
at the request of King Victor Emmanuel. Nono of the otheis are expected to be
reappointed. Their places will ne taken by representatives of tho forces which com
pelled the Salandra icslgnatlon.
ASQUITH PAYS TRIBUTE TO KITCHENER
LADVDANK, Scotlund, Julio 14. Premier Asquith this afternoon paid a Blow
ing tribute to Lord Kitchener, tho late Sectetnry of Stato for War, who lost his
llfo In tho sinking of tho British warship Humpshirc. "His memory will llvo na
loner as the British empire," Mr. Asquith said. '
y ' I'wwwwm , ii mi n ii mm i
If TBBH8Bfclrfcr?K?'lir5r5rwCi
BRITISH NAVY LOST 130 SHIPS, GERMANS SAY
BERLIN, June 14. During the wur to date Great Britain has lo3t 130 slTlps of
her navy, totaling more than G0O.O0O tons, nccordlng to statistics gathered by Ger
man newspapers, a semlolllclal news agency says today.' "Before the great sea
battle," says the agency, "the English had lost 11 battleships, 15 armored cruisers,
11 other ciulsers, 30 torpedoboats, 20 gunboats and 20 submarines, giving a total of
160,000 tons. This was increased to more than 130 nnd 00,000 by the SUagerraU
battle."
a float- truck
and the outer guard doors of th. .lemmr I
and crushed. He Ue4 Jats in the Cooper the street. They escape after being chased.
!, car wm sauiea to tat peace station.
X Continued on t'ue Two, Column Three
THREE MEN HELD IN THEFT
-, OF AUTO; ONE ESCAPES
Companion of Prisoners Makes Daring
Getaway in Machine
Three men were held under 1800 ball
each at Centra) Station today on suspicion
of being automobile thlees, while the po
lice, searched for a fourth man. who, while
policemen were questioning his companions
at the. time of their arrest, made a daring
getaway In the car, which belonged to the
Union Paving Company, 30th and Locust
streets.
The prisoners gae their names as Al
bert Williams. 33 years old : James Mni;.iv
33 years old, both living near 9th and Ilace
streets, and Harry floward, 34 years old.
of 1620 West Hazzard street. Mounted
Policemen mlth and Eppley, ot the 61st
and Thompson streets station, came upon
four men early today grouped about a
Ford, roadster at &th street and City
avenue.
Whlje the policemen were Interrogating
the men, one of the latter jumped Into the
car and made off at a40-mlle-an-hour rate.
Ills comrades attempted to escape througn
cornfields, but were ridden down and cap.
tured The Hying- car was seen, ,stlll run-,
nlog at breakneck speed, along the East
IUver drlye, but has not been traced further.
The automobile of Warren Murtaugh.
18! 4 Montgomery avenue, reported stolen
yesterday, was recovered today by Vollce
men Qulnn, FlUmaurtce and Lukewtne, of
the 10th. and Buttonwood streets station, on
Falrmount avenue near Franklin street
The men who were la the car Jumped to
ITALIAN NAVAL SQUADRON SHELLS AUSTRIAN PORT
nOME, June H. An Italian squadron bombarded the Austrian port of
Pnrenzo, It was odlclally announced today. (Parenzo is n seaport of Austria
Hungary In Istrla. It Is a trading port, has acthe fisheries and Is the seat of tho
pro Inclal' nssembly of Istrla.)
GREEK KING, FEARING UPRISING, LEAVES ATHENS
HOME, Juno 14. It Is learned through diplomatic channels here that King
Constantino of Greece has left Athens for I-arlssa. as n precaution, because he fears
that there may bo a revolution In Oreece. From Larlssa he will be able to seek
refuge In Monastir.
15 AMERICANS WOUNDED WITH CANADIANS
OTTAWA, June 14. Another long list of casualties among the Canadian over
seas contingent was Issued by the Militia Department here last night. It con
talned 370 names, of whom 15 were Americans The Americans wounded were
William Halsey Gerow, Chatteaugay, N. Y.i John Adams, Aurora, Ind.j Patrick
l'rltt, New York, Lance Corporal Richard H. Desmond, St. Paul, Mlnn.j Molse
Lemarler, Marquette, Mich., Walter McGreger, Cleveland, O.; Alexander Maglnnls,
Seattle, Wash., Leonard Mallory, San Bernardino, Col., Harlan Victor Hush, Casey,
III,; Arthur C. Peterson, Chlcugo, III.; John Mann, Grand Forks, N. D nnd Vernon
Hiram Putney, Honor, Mich. Lance Sergeant Thomas Sudney Winders, Atlantic,
Mass., was listed aa suffering from shock.
BOY'S LEGS CUT OFF BY TROLLEY; DYING
Seven-year-old Michael Hoffman, of 840 North Lawrence street,, is dying today
In the Roosevelt Hospital as. a result of a street car accident last night in which
he lost both legs. With another boy, he had been left to natch a team, and the
boys started playing with the whip. His companion was chasing him and he ran
In front of a 6th street trolley at Poplar street.
AUTO LICENSE FEES WILL REACH $2,225,000
HAHKISBUBG, June H, The State Highway Depurlment has passed the
$2,000,000 mark In receipts for automobile licenses, breaking all records. The
receipts for 1915 amounted to 11,655.276.50, which figuie was passed on April 25,
and it 19 estimated that this ear a total of J2.225.000 wll be reached. Licenses are
being Issued at the rate of 15 to 20 a day.
GERMAN WARSHIPS SEIZE NEUTRAL VESSELS
LONDON, June U.An Exchange Telegraph dispatch from Copenhagen says
that the Danish steamship Askoe has been captured by a German warship In tht
North Sea and taken to Hamburg. Tha Askoe was recently built by a Dutch com
pany for Danish owners and wa3 on her way to Denmark under , the Danish Mag
and with a Danish crew aboard when captured,. She carried no cargo. The Swe
dish schooner Svea. on her way to England with pit props, has been captured
Jn the Sound by a German warship and taken to Swinemunde. Another Exchange
Telegraph dispatch Bays that Denmark will demand the release of tha Danish
steamship Guldborg, captured by a German warship a fortnight ago and taken to
Swinemunde.
i, ! i ' . ,i , .
REDMOND PREMIER OF IRELAND, DUBLIN VIEW
DUBLIN, June J4 The establishment of a Home Rule Parliament here with
John Redmond the first Irish Premier is generally anticipated. The decision of thu
Lister Unionists has remove the chief remaining obstacle. t ia supposed that
Dublin Castle will fee the home of the new legislature,
GENERAL KUROPATKIN
The Russian commander in tho
Japanese war ia now waging a
duel with General von Hindcnburg
in thq north sector of tho Tlussinn
front, while the Austrians njid
Russians aro fighting it out below.
While tho Austrians have been un
able to check the advance of Bruailoff'a
nrmico toward tho Galicia plains, it io -announced
that considerable masses of
German troops have bccn-Scnt from
tho northern half of tho eastern battle
lino to stiffen Austrian resistance
south of tho Pripct. Evidently this
shifting of German fighting units from
tha north disposes of thoi reported
German offensive on the Dvinn front to
rclicvq tho pressure the Russians are
exerting on tno Austrians.
If the Germans were in a position to
undertake such an offensive movement,
it would have 'been perhaps the best
antidote for the Russian sweeping
march on Lembcrg, on Czernowitz and
on Kovcl, but the Germans apparently j
have neither the troops for the drive
nor a strong point of support for their
extreme left wing, which cannot safely
rest on the wc3t of Riga.
Now, besides Lemberg and the wholo
Gnlicia linp, Koycl also is threatened
and, consequently, tho whole front to
Brest Litovsk and farther north.
Czernowitz has been cut off from tho
Austrian Galicia army and its evacu
ation may be expected hourly. Cer
tainly the arrival of German reinforce
ments in Galicia will hayo the effect of
somewhat slackening the Russian on
slaught. But it ia a question whether
it will arrest the Slavs. To what ex- .
tent could tho Germans weaken their
lines north of the Pripet in order to
reinforce the Austrian without run
ning.tho risk of being driven by a sud
den onrush of Kuropatkin's forces?
CZERNOWITZ CUT OFF FROM
MAIN AUSTRIAN' FORCES
rETItoanAD, June 14. The Russian
troops have cut the Austrian railway com
munication from Czernowitz to the north.
Heavy fbjhtlng Is proceeding on the east
ern, southeastern and northern outskirts of
Czernowitz,
Great masses of perman troops from tht
line north of the Pripet marshes luue been
sout southward to stiffen the Austrian
forces, with the result that the advance of
the victorious armies of the Czar, according
to today's reports, hao slackened some
what. The most desperate Teuton resistance Is
now being made In the sector of Tarnopol,
south of that city and north of Suczacs.
Otherwise, the general drive onward Is
progressing, the latest official report an
nouncing the capture of further towns In
various sectors in Galicia,' Volhynla and
Bukowlna
The chief aid to the advance mado by
the Ilusblan forces In the Ternopol region
Is the captured Austrian position at Tor
govltzu. This Is the junction of the Ikwa
and Styr rivers and consists of a newly
constructed ' modern fortification Tha
position was wrested from the Austrians In
the first great onslaught of the Pusslans
at this point.' supported by heavy artillery
Are on three sides The Austrians wera
unable to withstand the combined artillery
and Infantry attacks and fled precipitately,
FURIOUS FIGHTING OS IKWA.
Furious and continuous fighting- la now
going on In this region and on Its result.
It was stated by oltlciala of the War Of
floe today, depends the fate of Lemberg,
Should the Austrians, now reinforced by
numbers of Germans, be unable to hold
their nevy defensjve lines In this farnopoi
region and lo the nghbofhood qf Buczaca
as well, there would be no important tortu
fled line possible to the Teutons to stem tha
"tide against the Gallclan capita-
In the Bukowlna fighting the Aussrto" .
nave mau,e hbiu wi u vieruovyni aRa
this capital of the province has not yi
fallen iato the hands of the Russians, T
Busslana have sained the vastly UypqrtMtf,
point of support at Zakacik on ik
Dnelster. and its loss was a blow to tfc 4y
feiuw of i zeraovviiz
The ktiXfetuns of the Austrian fjrijBjiTir-i
has pitawUd dUy (ftM.t ;4SUUtjUD v!
Ceutunwd e l"pt SJftttXmHt tW
