EPU
LICAN
UN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, AKIZONA, WEDNESDAY MOIiNIXfi, JUNE 14, 191C
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., XO. 27
0
THE
ARIZONA
B
it e pufparf
j& j&
CjA
President Will Insist On Nomination Of Thomas R. MarshalMW. TRIPS
BAKER HIES
WILSON'S DRAFT
IF PLATFORM
In Addition He Announces
President Desires Ke
nouiination of Vice Presi
dent By Democratic Na
tional Convention
HUGHES GIVES VIEW
ON SUPPORT OF THE
GERMAN AMERICANS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire (sent a telegram from 'loveland pleilg-vt-w-
vimk- .lime 13. Charles E. ing support and followed in person
Hughes today defined his attitude, to- ; later to congratulate tlie nominee and
reiterate Ins please.
Republican leaders who saw Mr.
Hughes included former Governor B.
B. Odell of New York, Wm. 11. Crock
er and M. II. De Young of San
wart! German-American support as
one of "undiluted Americanism" in
the first statement issued since his
acceptance of the republican nomina
tion for president. He said:
rise
part! leaders
Tl
I stated ttic nosiiion verv clearly Francisco; Dr. Nicholas Murray J.'it-
; re., telegram to the convention. Mv ler ' and Lloyd ('. Griscoin of New
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOl'IS, June 13. The
here tonight of Secretary Newton I), i
Baker, president's Wilson's personal
representative bearing the "presi
dent's own" draft of the platform and
news that he desires the re-nomina-tion
of Vice President Marshall, firm
ly established the harmony program
for the democratic national conven
tion which opens tomorrow.
When Chairman Wm. K. MeCombs
of the democratic national committee
lets his Ravel sound at noon tomor
row, leaders expect all pre-conven-tion
discord to be blended in one
harmonious note. A program of
agreement, upon both the presidential
find vice presidential nominations and
the platform as well, was apparently
iigreed upon by the leaders. "
Vice presidential booms and boom
lets nround which most of the pre
convention fights have centered wilt
ed away tonight under influence of
tha, personal message from the White
House, brought by Secretary Baker,
that the president desires Mr. Mar
shall again as his running mate.
Secretary Baker also effectually dis
posed of the vice presidential tHiom
in his own behalf which., had at
tained permanence in' the belief in
some quarters that Mr. Marshall
lucked administration support.
"The president Is for the re-nomination
of Vice President Marshall,"
was the emphatic statement from
Secretary Baker.
"So far as I know," Mr. Baker an
nounced, "the president has not con
sidered any other nominee. As to
the movement started in my behalf. I
am for Mr. Marshall. I am here us
a delegate from Ohio. I ran in a
popular primary pledged to support
Mr. Marshall and obviously could
not allow myself to be considered."
The "president's own" draft of the
platform a single copy will be de
livered by Mr. Baker to Senator
Stone of Missouri, chairman-to-be
of the resolutions committee. Little
change in it is anticipated and Mr.
Baker said, he came here as the
means of communication between the
committee, the convention and the
president. Mr. Wilson wrote his draft
after frequent consultation with lead
ers at Washington, and is said to
have typewritten it himself and sent
the only copy to St. Louis by Sec
retary Baker.
Although Mr. Baker declined to
night to disclose the president's
platform views, these outstanding
facts were learned following his ar
rival: The platform will dwell principally
"on peace, preparedness for peace
and prosperity."
Despite agitation by some demo
cratic leaders, President Wilson dis
approves, insertion of a plank criti
cising nomination of a supreme court
Justice for president, or favoring a
constitutional amendment prohibiting
Justices from seeking other federal
offices. '
The president desires adoption of
a platform so progressive that it will
appeal to and attract members of
the progressive party but without an
open, direct invitation to the progres
sives to swing their strength to the
democratic ticket.
Woman suffrage workers will be
recognized but the platform probably
will suggest that they exhaust their
efforts for. the ballot In the respec-
attitude is one .of undiluted Amen- j
canism, and anybody that supports
me is supporting an out and out
American and an out and out Amei-
irrival i 1 a policy, ant.oiuici. in'imnb
The nominees flay, a ousy one,
devoted almost exclusively to receiv
ing callers. His visitors were more
numerous than yesterday. There
weie so many of them at bur time
that a, line was formed ami they
filed past to shake hands and "hat
for a moment instead of waiting to be
received- alone. Sevcial progressive
leaders and republican supporters of
Colonel Roosevelt were among Hum.
K erett Colby of New Jersey, who
placed John M. Parker in nomination
for the vice presidency at the pro
gressive convention, and Theodore
Douglas Robinson, nephew of Colonel
Roosevelt, and .1 former progressive
leader in New York, called during Mr.
Hughes' absance at luncheon. They
left word that they would return in a
day or so to deliver in person their
pledges of support. Osiar S. Straus
York. Dr. Butler, who placed Kliliu
Root in nomination at Chicago, spent
nearly an hour conferring with Mr.
Hughes. Hcn'-y Clews, the New York
banker, and Krnnk A. Vanderlip, pres
ident of the National City bank of
New York, made brief visits.
Suffrage leaders sought vainly to
obtain the nominee's views as to their
cause. Miss Lucy . P irns and Mrs.
("has. A. Beard tried unsuccessfully to
see him. Mrs. Laura H. Prisk, chair
man of tlu tuimi n s r.'pnMKan. com
RUSSIANS CONTINUE
OFFENSIVE AGAINST
A USTO-HUNGARIANS
HEARS FATAL SHOT
OVER THE TELEPHONE
(Republican A P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, June 13. Colonel
Theodore Roosevelt had u conference
here tonight with George W. Perkins,
Governor Hiram Johnson, Oscar S. j
Straus and Chester H. Rowell of
California, to discuss the future course
of the progressive party. His tenta
tive refusal of the presidential nom
ination and the advisability of hav
ing some one else named in his stead
as a candidate by the national exec
utive committee of the party were
considered. -
Mr. Roosevelt would not talk for
publication on what took place at the
conference, but -Mr. Verkins issued the
following statement:
"All members of the progressive
miltee of New York had a two-mir- -ute
talk with him during which hc member t.i-.t -it the d ,se of the pro
said he rrobal.lv would make known "cive convention in Chicago a
v.; . , i....... .... ,',rr.,n i hi. f.,-.n ,1 ! meeting of he nati.mul committee
v.hp '-ane mi re nem in i nicago .June
'- : week from next Mondav. This
Hill b( a'ter the democratic conven
tion at Si. Louis and the result of
that convention will be known.
"Suf ficier.t time will have elapsed
republican and
allow urn
to
speech of acceptance..
The date of hi formal nolili.-ation j
of m minati n may b settitd deli-I
nitelv within : few davs, as word was ;
received tonight at headquarters that j
the sub-committee from the national ;
XKW YORK, June 13 Harry
i Grten, proprietor (if a liquor
store was shot and killed late to
' night by one of three robbers who
1 attempted to hold him up. Green
j was talking over the telephone to
his brother in Brooklyn when the
j three men entered the store.
I "Wait a minute, Dave," he said
to bis brother. "Here are three i
I customers." A minute later the I
man in Brooklyn heard the sound
! of a pistol shot over the tele-
phone wire. Becoming alarmed
when he failed to get arty further i
! response from his brother, David
I (ireen called police headquarters i
j in New York and asked that an j
investigation be made. The police !
j found the proprietor of the store ;
j dying.
D D
In Yolhynia and Galicia
Russians Make Fresh
Advances ' and Capture
Additional Prisoners and
War Stores.
ARE ORDERED TO
GUARD BORDER
In Meantime Iveplv to Car
ranza's Note Will Not Be
Sent Until After Conven
tion Unless Conditions
Become Worse
tee hrre n xt .Monday.
SFCfiETAlDllELS DRAFTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j The proposed plank follows:
ST." Lot; IS. June 13. Suffrage j "The constitution piovides that
leaders tonight received for approval ' n hen any c msidcrable number of
a tentative draft of a suffrage plank I people desire to have, an issue re-
eerieer,;,., mif'lll reaeh hcrA tomorrow' 1 " 1 '
f.w ..,h him Mr Ouches'; democratic conventions I.
' . . , ... .. . ! committeemen in each f the stat'
present plan 1 Lo n-ri- lite loiimiit- . r ,
sentiment in each stat" and to brim:
, this ir.foi mn lien to the meeting of
! our committee. Tlie ;u lion which will
j t! en be taki n by our committee, on
Jon? 1'0. should be a vaitod by pro
' rcys!'es as individuals and by the
1 vsrifu b-K-;il and state orcani'.:ations.
' No action i-hould be taken by iiidi-
vidu.'l progressive or by the various
j oreaniraiiorifi until the action of the
i natii iial committee has been made
' r u' lie"
j Mr. P.-rkois said that this nv'se.
! in sitbstancf , h;:d been sent tonight
j by telegr.iPh to the members of the
i iuiti -ml committee :md to the state
j 'hcirmcn.
! Colonel and Mrs. Roosevelt came
j to the city bidny from Oyster Bay to
meet their son Kermit and his v. ife
' w: r. arp returning from Panama on
TENTATIVE SUFFRAGE PLANK
AID ASKS Iltl'S APPROVAL
OF PRICE RISE
OF GASOLINE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
In Yolhynia .and Galicia the Rus-
! sinns are continuing their strong of
fensive against the Austro-Hungarians
i ai d Germans, and on various sectors
ip both regions they have made fresh
advances and captured additional
i prisoners and war stores.
' in Galicia the drive of tlie Russian;:
! has brought tiiem across the Dniester
river, where '.hey have captured tho
I towns of Za!e Szczyky and Horodenka,
! fr-jm which they are pressing forward
I toward the Pruth river and the Buko
! wina frontier, with Czernowiu their
1 objective.
I I'ar'.her north violent fighting is tak
ing place around Tarnupol, where the
Aus'.ro- Hungarians, teinforced by
Germans, tue holding back the at
tempts "l the Russians to advance in
the direction of Lemberg, capital of
Cali'-ia. Northeast of Tarnopol, near
Varo'-ievka, positions have changed
hards repeatedly in the heavy fight
ing, while east of Kozloe, which lies
southwest of Tarnopol, the capture of
a. Russian advanced post is reported
bv Vienna.
Ill Volhynia, northwest and west of
Lutsk, she Russians have driven out
the Austrians near Rojitche and oc
cupied ti e town of "jorchin, while west
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 13. The fed
era! trade commission concluded today of K lki. noith of Lutsk, the Austrians
for the democratic platform drawn by
Secretary Daniels and other hading
democrats.
The plank declares unequivocally
for the pu.ssage by Congress of a suf
frage! amendment to the constitution.
Leaders of the Woman' party im
mediately approved the form of the
plank. Their contention, however, has
been that congress sifould pass the
Susan B. Anthony amendment with
out further delay and their leaders
are expected to press for such action.
The plank, it is believed, will be sat
isfactory to the National American
Woman Suffrage association which
has been contending only for an en
dorsement of suffrage in the dUW-
form.
fcrred to the people congress may
submit the constitutional amendment
to the legislature of the separate
states for ratification.
"Now that there are more than four J
million women voters in the country, j
and the isue has been referred by i
the legislative action of 12 separate)
states and as there is a resognized I
demand for equal suffrage among a
large number of citizens, we favor the '
I passage by congress of a federal
amendment to th constitution grant- I
ing the right of suffrage to women, j
in order that the separate states may. ;
by legislative act decide whether or i
not they wish such amendment
I the
n.
'-d States transport Kilpatrhk
which is due at quarantine tonight,
but which will not do.'k until to-
(Contiuued on Page Threei
STATE'S EASE
AGIST ORPET
IS TOTTERING
ELEVATOR FIRE TAKES '
TOLL OF FOUR TO TEN LIVES
its investigation of the rise of gasoline
prices, ending a two days' final hearing
after representatives of Standard Oil
and various independent companies had
given divergent explanations of the
present situation In the industry. A
report, based on the hearings and on
the results of wt eks of investigation by
the commission's agents will be made
public soon and will be transmitted to
congress in response to a resolution
asking for an inquiry.
The independent jobbers and refiners
who appeared before the commission
today and yesterday were unanimous
in placing the resjionsibility on the
Standard Oil, who had fixed prices.
Standard oil representatives replied to
the charges but did not enter into an
xplanation of the method behind tlie
soaring cost of gasoline to users.
Demoralization in the industry
throughout the middle west, indepen
dent jobbers declared, had resulted
from the failure of the Standard Oil
Company of Indiana lo compete with
the Standard Oil Company of Ohio,
which by iiiaiatainuig a retail price
several cents higher thau that fixed in
the west by the Indiana company, at
tracted the crude oil from the Texas
and Oklahoma independent refiners.
Western dealers, who said they were
forced to sell ut the low figure set by
the Indiana company, charged that
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Md., June 13. Penn
sylvania railroad elevator No. 3 on
the harbor front at Canton, a suburb,
was burned today with a loss of life
conservatively estimated at from four
to ten men arid injury to more than
forty others. The victim were most
ly elevator employes and cargo trim
mers. Three of the injured were in a
critical condition tonight.
Two steamships, the Vy'dlem Van
Driel Sr., a Dutch vessel and the Brit-
Recubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
WAl'KKGAN, 111., June 13 Josephine
Davis completed her testimony today
I without wavering from her revised
; statements to the grand jury that
! Marion Iambert, for whose alleged
murder Will Orpet is being tried, was
i frequently depressed and melancholy
1 except when in public, and that she
I actually threatened to commit suicide.
According to Miss Davis, chum of
' Miss Lambert, the latter was perturbed
ii've agr.in repulsed the Russians, who
wire attempting to cross the Styr
river, inflic'ing heavy looses on them.
The diversion of the Germans on the
northern part of the front apparently
has nit yet assumed great proportions.
The latent Pet:ograd official communi
cation merely reports bombardments
of Russian positions at many points,
while Berlin only records the defeat
of the Russian cavalry brigade routh-c-ist
of Jacobstadt and an increase in
the Russian artilleiy fire in the re
gion of Baranovichi.
The I'anadian troops in the region
of Ypres have made a notable gain
oer the Germans, retaking from them
southeast of Zilleheke, in a "gallant
and successful assault."' more than
1.1'iii ysrds of former British position
which the Germans captured recently
The regained ground was held despite
i v igorous shelling by the Germans.
After driving their wedge further
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 13. Unless
the increasing seriousness of condi
tions in Mexico forces action, dispatch
of the reply to General Carranza's de
mand for withdrawal of American
troops probably will be delayed until
after the St. Louis convention because
the administration desires to avoid
any drastic step at a time when it
might appear to be prompted by poli
tical influences.
Secretary Lansing and his advisors
are said to have given careful consid
eration to the charge of playing poli
tics in dealing with the problem. The.
rapid spread of anti-American propa
ganda in northern Mexico, however,
coupled with increasingly grave con
ditions may take the situation out of
their hands.
No official would venture a predic
tion tonight as to what might be ex
pected in the immediate future. With
some consuls in Mexico, they believe
almost any eventuality is possible
with agitators workini, on Cue feelings
of a people already distressed by the
fruits of prolonged disorder. It was
stated positively that the Washington
government was considering no ag
gressive action to be taken of its own
volition, but stood ready to act should
assaults on Americans or. any attack
on General Pershing's forces force the
issue.
The state department today received
confirmation of the identification of
one of the Mexicans killed in the Cole
man ranch raid as Lieut. Colonel Villa
real of the Carranza army, t is under
stood the development immediately
was called to Gen. Carranza's atten
tion but officials were inclined not to
give it special significance pending an
explanation from the de facto govern
ment. The loose control of the Car
ranza commanders over their men is
one of the complicating factors with
which the administration has been
confronted all along.
A sharp rejoinder is being prepared
to the Carranza nyte. It will repeat
the determination of President Wilson
to keep American troops in Mexico un
til the Carranza forces have shown
their ability and intention to properly
police the border states. It is also to
rebuke the de facto government for
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
TO LOOT BORDER TOWNS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire aToss the frontier, to mutiny, assass
PRESIDIO, Tex., June 13. What: ilmte the commander and his staff
Z . T' ; , ' riig deC,,ard to b a rl0t f and attack and loot Presidio was re-
(Continued on Page Four) 'of the Carranza garrison at Oinjaga, .
vealed in Ojinaga today. Col. Riojas.
'about he.r condition for some time, and
Schlatter Declares He Is
Reincarnation Of Moses
were told in the midst of excitement,
I while she was mourning her friend, and
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, June 13. Declaring he
Is the "reincarnation of Moses" and
the "Icing of divine healers," Rev.
KranriH Schlatter today defended his
actions as a healer in an effort to pre
vent hlH return to Imh Angeles to be
tried on a ferleral chaige of using the
miiib: to defraud. He took the stand
in his own defense, after several wit
nesses had testified tiefore L'nited
States Commissioner Houghton that
they had bee.T miraculously cured by
him.
Schlatter asserted he was born with
the power of divine healing. He ex
plained that he used a "blessed hand
kerchief," which he advertised would
effect cures "only as John and Petey
used blessed aprons."
Binhnp August Hchrader and Rev.
August Algnrd of Oakland, Cal., who
also are wanted in California on the
same charge, he descrilied, respectively,
k.s "prince and ambassador of God,"
and his secretary. All three are in
corporators of the Baptist church of
Oakland, which Is not connected with
any other denomination. '
Schlatter admitted that he sent out
letters asking for offerings, because.
he sn'd, "the ravens will not feed us.
but afier living expenses are deducted.
whatever money rem iins is sent to the
Oakland church.
"The healer" defended a newspaper
published by the church of Oakland,
and asserted t'.vii publication in the
erga.i of the imposition of the "curse
of M'uh Psalm" upon Miss Adela D.
Preiss, for causing his arrest, was Jus
tified. Rev. August Algard testified that
an Average of thirty persons a day
were "h'lth,!'' by "Father" Schlatter.
ish thin Welbeek Hall, which were
lo.ieSncr I'l.uiti i fii4 elevator were
, ,, , , , ,. , ' . 1 while on January 20 this was some-
badly damaged by fire and wreck. j allayed. a new worrv ariMe in the
dropped upon then, from the elevator. , VnovM thfU vounK 0rpet had
The flames spread to an ore pier j transferred his affections to Miss
next to the elevator badly damaging ; ceiestia Youkers.
it,. Several strings of grain cars in navjr R, jt,Biyn, for the prosecution,
the elevator were burned. j on direct and re-direct examination
.While the fire is thought to have j sought vigorously to shake the girl's
been caused by an explosion of grain j story by pointing out discrepancies in
dust, a theory was advanced that it j her present testimony as compared with
may have been caused by a bomb, i that before the grand jury and to him-
Thls theory will be investigated, it ! self and State s Attorney Dudy shortly
was .said. The blast blew out the j after Miss Lambert's death by cyanide
ninety foot tower, or upper elevator. ' potassium poisoning.
and i,. ar, lt:,nt il.e whole hnildinirt "e states case was ouiu largely
was ablaze. Conservative estimates j a statements tnat ner
placed the loss ut more than $2,000,000. was happy at all times and at no
. . time displayed signs of despondency.
,x.i.,b.. ....... She expained that her first stories
Wlieui, OilLS, l'ttlie, ,IJU unu iu.rv-
wheat were destroyed. Scores of men
purely escapea witn their lives, rortj- hf,r retientment against Orpet, led her
four grain handlers and Meveaores ! t0 at8ume his jrui't
w1k were partially- imprisoned in the i Conversations with her mother lay
hold of the Welbeek Hall fought their at the bottom of her change of heart
Way to freedom over piles of srain. , It was too grave a thing to trifle in the
Gaining the deck of the ship, they i smallest way with, the life and liberty
found their war to shore cut off by the ! of a human being, and eventually she
flames. Some of them jumped over- j told her story, she said, to a represen
hoard and were nicked ud. Launches tative of the defense. .
ran alongside and took off the others. "During the period of her worrying T
Two gangs of grain handlers, im. repeatedly, advised her to tell every -
,.r'..i .... it-iiiem ; n ririei r tniiig to ner momer, saia miss jjavis,
,. , , . (. ' . '' "It was at her birthday party that she
.... ..i. r i u.. ... -;referred to her own troubles as in con
vaior wnui-i to saietv, out incy wc.e ( tragt, wRh thp happmess of hpr KU(!.ts
showered with sparks and burning d threatened to take her own lite
woon ana oniy a rew escapeo un- . she was not oel.tain on January 20 that
scathed. The charred bodies (,t two ; Bhe was in a delicate condition and had
men were found in the hold of the also come to the conclusion that Orpet
Willem Van Driel, Sr., tonight. ; had lost his love for her.
The number of known dead was in- I " 'If he has I'll kill myself,' she said."
creased to three by the finding of a i Miss Davis told of spells of depres
body in the wreckage of the- elevator, 'ion over fear that she was in a deli
Nine men were unaccounted for to- eiir condition and later, when this fear
night. (Continued on Page Three)
RATRED OF "GOYDTES" GREATER
THAI THAT FOR THE TUBES"
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
Kb VASO, June 13. Copies of
Mexican newspapers brought here to
days show- that in the republic ha
tred of the "coyotes," or merchants.
exceeds that of the "gringoes." Lt Re-
forma, published in Saltillo, Coahuiia,
under the , date of June 9, heads an
editorial on this subject: "There is
gr-tver problem than that of , in
tervention.'
Shops in Saltillo. according to the
paper, are now charging $1.50 in the
new uncounterfeitable .paper for a
uckage of cigarettes or an orange.
Restaurants ask $3 for a cup of cof
fee or chocolate, while a piece of
bread costs $1. As much as $50 in
the old paper' issue is demanded in
some shops for a pound of butter.
The editorial, as contemptuously
ond bitterly as it speaks of the Amer
icans, has harsher terms for the mer
chants and speculators. A news
story, given a place second in import
ance only to the assault by the mob
on the American consulate in Chi
huahua City, bears the lines: "the.
people cannot stand the abuses of the
commercial coyotes." It then tells
of a delegation of women going to
the mayor with a petition of griev
ances against the "exploiters of the
worker." '
In its issue of June. 1(1 tlie Re
forma tells a story of misery and
suffering among the people, who are
unable to afford medicines.
Meanwhile, .agitations against the
Americans seem to grow in virulence.
In a meeting organized by the Pa
triotic League, a speaker named Col
onel Izaguirre declared:
"In the case of a fight the Yan-
garrison commander, announced that
the widow of the late Major Marti
nez, executed here May 2S on a
charge of attempted rebellion, had be
trayed the plot and implicated a num
ber of officers and soldiers. She said
they planned to place the entire sec
tion tinder the command of "General"
Villanueo, after killing the Americans
here and obtaining supplies from the
local stores.
Three, of the officers implicated.
feet of our warriors of black hair. 1 Col. Ortega and t antain Antonio
black eyes and eagle glance." Reyes, a former YiiHsta. and Captain
Girls, soldiers, students, laborers J. Pina, were taken from the jail.
and Mexicans of all classes, appeared 'where they have been confined since
on the platform
Americans. one
to denounce the
soldier caused a
they were first suspected, to be tried
by court martial. Ortega, believing
furor of applause in a peroation on j they were to be shot, stabbed himself
the subject of blood, battlefields, can- but not fatally. He was executed
nuns and bayonets, which w ould he w ith the two otheis a few hours later,
used to "dig the hearts out of the 1 Nire soldiers are being- held for trial
gringoes.'" in connection with the alleged plot.
Yaquis Force De Facto Line
And Start Raids In Sonora
Republican A. P. Leased Wire Americans who had depended upon
DOI'GLAS, June 13. . Americans , the Mexican government for protec
reuc'iing Nogales brought word there tio.i. and planted large acreage, fear
of the deci-ivo defeat. on two occasions that tnpv may have to come out, it is
of commands of the de facto Mexican ' said, while American mining men ara
army by Yaqui Indians near Esper- leavinglthe country. The Indians are
anza, Sonora, last week. Kit her be-I said to have renewed their ammtinl
cause of lnior tactics or failure to tion supply, and the Indian trouble H
move uuickly. several bands of Yaquis j now con?idered more serious than in
were allowed to get through the lines ( years.
of the de facto army and back into 1 General P. Klias Calles is exacted
their old haunts in the Yaqui River j to return to Agca Prieta during the
valley. The effect of a campaign of
many, mcnlhs has thus been lost.
Eight Mexican vaqueros employed
bv the P.iehardscn Construction com
pany at Esperanza were surprised and
killed by the Indians within three
miles of the town. Government
troops took their trail, but were driven
back. After being reinforced they
again took up the pursuit, being lea
into ambush and driven back with the
kees will bite the dust beneath the loss .vf more than thirty dead.
latter part of the week from Hermo-
sillo and Empalrae. The monetary
difficulties of the state have been in
no way settled and discontent over the
enforced circulation of depreciated
Carranza currency is growing, it is re
ported here.
An order was received from Venus
tiano Carranz-i today in Agua Prieta
forbidding the exportation of cattle
from Sonora under any pretext what-
4
