BUQUERQUE ilOMMNG JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THIKIV-SKVENTH 11AR.
vol.. I-
Ten Pages
PET STRENGTH,
NOT SWAGGER, IS
AMERICAN IDEAL
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Wednesday, June 14, 1916.
Ten Pages
Dally by Carrier or Mail,
ft Month. Single Copies, t
Tells
West Point
Must Fight
Principles,
Graduates of
That' Country
Only for Just
URGES PREPAREDNESS
FOR HIGH PURPOSES
Chief Executive Declares Dan
ger of Militarism Is Negligi
ble While Columbia's Spirit
Remains True to Itself,
THE WEATHER
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Denver. Colo.. June 13. Now Mex
ico; Wednesday anil Thursday fair;
not much change in temperature.
LOCAL WEATIIEll KEPOKT.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
6 p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, 95 degrees;
minimum, 60 degrees; range, 3.'i do.
greos; temperature at 6 p. ni S6 de
grees; southwest wind; clear.
CITY B.WK CLKAIUNU8.
(1 16.3HX.ii9.
DOVE OE PEACE
10 OVER OVER
DEMOCRATS WHO
CONVENE
I
0
Indent and worth while and keeping
their men fit at any time for the duty
i to which th -y were assigned.
(ircat IHiHHihlHilcA Now.
Now in your rase there are many
extraordinary possibilities. becaiiHO,
I gentlemen, no man can certainly tell
you what the immediate future is go
ing to he either in the history of this
country or in the history of the world.
It Is not by accident that the present
great war came In Europe. Every
element wan there and the contest
had to come sooner or later, and it is
not going to he by accident that the
results are worked out, but by pur
pose hy the purpose, of the men who
are strong enough to have guiding
minds and indomitable wills when the
time for decision and settlement
I comes.
1 ' " I "And the part that the United
i naftNixa journal mem Lt.uo ihi (Stales Is to play has tills distinction
West I'oinl, N. Y., June 13. Presi-iin it, that It is to he In any event aj
dent Wilson, making his first address I disinterested part. There Is nothing j
since the presidential campaign began, ! that the United States wants that it
today discussed preparedness, mill-1 has t get by war, but there (Nro a representative, bearing
All Talk of Opposition to Mar
shall for Renomination Is
Given Quietus by Presi
dent's Own Edict,
PREPAREDNESS FOR '
PEACE TO BE SLOGAN
Wilson Opposes Insertion of
Plank:' Censuring Nomina
tion of Supreme Court Jus
tice for High Office,
the personal part ho will pl iy- In the
oampaikii, according to .Secretary
linker.
Secretary linker was besieged to
night for information regarding the
prohible campaign manager, the
the chairman of the national com
mittee, it became known that Col.
i-1. M. House, the President's closest
personal friend and adviser, and Fretl
li. Lynch, Minnesota national commit
teemen. practically have been elimi
nated from eonslderaUosi. Colonel
House, it was said, was asked by the
president to tiik the phi, e, hut be
lieves another yhonld manage the
fight an the new chairman of the na
tional committee.
pnwr priii nnmr
I 1 1 VU I 1 1 1 1 1 W I !
w " Vh, Will k j
OF CZAR'S ARMY I
CONTINUES WITH
UNABATED FORCE
NO
POLITICS. IN
DIPLOMATIC
CHANGE
tnrism, Americanism, the causes of j great many things that the I'nited
the war in Kurope, peace, the Monroe; State has to do. It has to see that its
dor trine, divided allegiance and the i life is not Interfered with hy anybody
ideals of America, lie declared it Iwelso who wants something,
the present Imperative duty of the! America1 Leitmotif.
V MORNINA JOURNAL IRtCIAL LCAREO WIRBJ
.i. i.uuis, jane to. me arrival - i,i , , rAM
here tonight of Secretary Newton I). ! WILoUIN
Haker, President Wilson's personal
the president's
'own'' draft of the platform and news
J that he desires the renomination of
i Vice President Marshall, firmly es
j tablished the harmony program for
i the 'lemoi rutie national
lV MORNINO JOURNAL APICAL LIARIf WIRII
Ixindon. June 13. The change In
the Japanese emblis-y here, Involving
the appointment of Viscount Sutcmi
Chinda. ns ambassador In succession to
Marquis Kutsunosiike Inouye is
without political significance.
Marquis Inouye applied for leave of
ahsence to attend the memorial mt-
vices for nis. tallier, which in .laputi
are important functions occurring a
year after death.
The Japanese government did not
think ll advisable to leave the embas
sy in charge of a secretary while the
war was in progress. Consequently
Marquis Inouye and Viscount Chlnda.
tho ambassador to the fulled States,
was appointed his successor.
DESIRES
MARSHALL RENAMED
.allacks il.iuncbeil by the Auslilans.
in the Poslna-Astico front the Aus-
mans pcnotraieti .vtulisini, but were
later driven out, and in the Sudana
valley they md with repulse Willi con
fid. Table losse.s n an attempt to ad
vance east of the Mao torri'til.
I'M I, Ol' CZEKNOWIT, IS
MOM i:TAItll.Y EXPECTED
UNLESS MEXICO
Russians Nearing Czernowitz,
Bukowina's Capital, Cap
turing AdditionaL Austrian
Prisoners and War Material
CANADIANS RETAKE
LONG LINE OF TRENCHES
Dominion Troops Make "Gal
lant and Successful" As
sault Against Germans in
Region of Ypres,
America speaks she
WIS'R.
means what she I
most commonly
even.- unrt nf t.'ihle in pvorv knr, of!
The president said the United States i , th. h.in ' , , , Klr(.ptK. noon
should not he a blustering nation, a',., ' ,,.. ,ii.(,ii I pro-convention
nation with "a chip on its shoulder," , ,',',. ,ut .' ,,, .., o ! In one harmonious
I'nited States to be prepared, adding! ..Thpfip arp xhft days wh(,n we ar , which opens tomorrow.
mankind is going to know that when : ,uU,n ,., ,.u ,v. i,,,, When chairman William
,. u... I fM' " ..... " ..... ...
discussed around v"""Jn '"- ,n"""al"
romnintee icis nis gavei
tomorrow, leaders
discord to
J Hetnun ,h:it (m hn nppupnt tninpriittve
Imu a calm nation which will withhold;,,,,,,, ... ,,,..., . -,.-.i
iU hands as long as possible and , W(, OHRht ,Q know whnt wp nrp prp..
sinke only for victory. -paring for. I rememher hearing a
America Elrst. I w ise man say once that the old maxim
Shaking h's finger emphatically the j that 'everything comes to the man
president told the graduates of tho waits' is all very well provided he
military academy and a large audi-i knows whnt he is waiting for,' and
preparedness might be a very hazard
ous thing if we did not know what we ' convention fights have centered
wanted to do with the force that wo ! 'd away tonight under influence
V MORNIN JOURNAL RPICIAL LCAfttO telRri
St. Louis, Mo., June 13. Secretary
Baker arrived here late, todny from
convention ' Washington. bringing a platform
;drnfte,l hy President Wilson and di
rect word from the president himself j
that he desires the renomination of'
11 WORN, MO JOURNAL ICIAL LUHD WIR
In Volhynia and (inltcla the Itus-
jtiians are continuing their ftrong of
fensive against the Austro-Hungar-ilnns
and Hermans and on various see-
tors In both regions they have made
fresh advances and capture,! addition
al prisoners and war stores.
In Oalida the drive of the llussians
ha brought them aeros the Dnelster
wlna frontier, with
nnd the Hiiko-
Czornowiu their
ence that nobody who does not put
America first can be tolerated, lie I
added, however, that true Americans:
should set a good example.
The president declared the present!
war did not come by accident, butj
that it had to come. The United;
.States wants nothing from Europe, he
Mid, and there is nothing she wants
which she must get by war. He sound
ed a warning that no man can tell
what the next day will bring forth in
the world's events. , t
The word "Americanism" was used!
today-tk jjMwiiiwrtt- tor- the first"
(lallniieo: on Pair Two.)
GASOLINE PROBE
ENDS, STANDARD
time in recent addresses. He warned
the graduates against militarism.
, Was Frequently Applauded. j
The president's speech was f re-1
fluently interrupted by applause. The
text follows:.
"I look upon this body of men who
nro graduating today with a peculiar f
Interest. I feel like congratulating!
thr-m that they are living in a day not!
only so interesting because fraught j
with change, but also because so re- i
uponsihle. Days of responsibility arej
the only days that count in time, be-;
au.se they are the only days that give!
test of quality. They are the only
days when manhood and purpose Is
tried out as If by fire.
"I need not tell you gentlemen that
Sou are not like an ordinary gradu
ating class of one of our universities.
The men in those classes look for
ward to a life which they are to lead
aner graduating with a great many
OIL IS BLAMED
river, where they have captured the
F. Mo- -i won, irom in pmskich nimseu f SznVkv ,,orodltlka.
national that he desres the renomination of frf)m wh,(.h th(,y 1I.psMn(r fol.wnr(,
sound at"- i ...... -,n. i. Howard the Pruth river
expect alb -
I li:..l.i f V.a,t.ta.w Im.fi.iuihulAu
be blended "!. - ... "'" - (ohWUve
note. A program ' "tt"li ' ,u"'' ,a' "icorporxuou ...,,....,..,. .
of agreement upon both the presi- ' P;lPpr were Died today with the stnte j
dential and vice presidential nomina- corporation commission by the Zoro 1-arther north violent figlrting is
,ir.nU ,inH iho niu,ri.i.m n .ii ...... Gold and Copper Mining company of taking place around Tarnupol, where
apparently agreed upon hv the lead- Alamogordo, caiiltallzed , at $250,000
ers. isnd with $2,000 paid up. George K.
NVilsou Settles Plseonl, ,Moffett is named statutory agent, be-;ieinpis oi tne Russians to advance in
. ing one of the incorporators anil ui- ' ouccuoii oi L.emoerg, capnai oi
rectors with 00 sharcK, the others be- jUaiicia. Northeast of Tamopol, near
Wll(. ing Kdmona K. Moffett, loo shares;
of John H. Denny, 10') i-harcji. all of Al-
the personal message from the White nmogoruo; l-.clwartl U. .Met lintocK, or
House, brought by Secretary Iiaker, 1 Pn"". ,)oft shares.
that the president
tho Austro-Huiigarlans, reinforced by
Kiermans, nro holding back tho at-
I Vice presidential
lets around which
booms and boom-
most of the pre-
the president desires Mr. Mar
shall again as bis running mate.
Secretary Haker also effectually
disposed of the vice presidential boom
In Ms own behalf which had attained
prominence in the belief In some quar
ters that Mr. Marshall lacked genuine
administration support.
'The president is for the. ronoeiinn-
tion of Vice President Marshall," was ;
the emphatic statement tonight from j
Secretary Iiakcr. i
Haker for Marshall. !
"So far as 1 know," Mr. Haker nn
nounced, "the president has not con
sidercd any other nominee. As to the !
movement started in my behalf, I am o0
I for Air. Marshall. I am here as a'
lntrri,A frnn. rl.;. T t .. v,..ii-!
lar primnry pledget! lo support -Mr.)
Marshall and obviously could not ul-j
low myself to be considered." j
The "president's own" draft of the!
platform a sinKle conv will be de-
' wornino journal tpiciAL LiAiiD wirij Jlivcrcd by Mr. Haker to Senator Slonoi
Washington, June 13. The federal 0f Missouri, chairman-to-be f the!
trade commission concluded today Its resolutions committee. Little change!
investigation, of the rise of gasoline in (t H anticipated ami Mr. Haker said
prices, ending a two-days' final hear
ing after representatives of Standard
Oil and various independent com
panies had given divergent explana-
CONFERENCE OF
RAILROADMEN
I Independent Jobbers Say
Manipulations of Big Con
cern Led to Demoralization
of Industry,
TO BE FUTILE
i
Declare
Rpnmcontativ0om'N
Both of tinpioyers and tin-,"1"11 riwHl1
buuii jtnu an
artillery firp
ployes; Strike Not
Necessary Result,
to Be
voroblevka, positions have changed
hands repeatedly In the heavy fight
ing, while east of Kozloe,, which lies
southwest of Thrnopol, the capture of
a Kussi.m advanced post is reported
by Vienna.
In Volhynia, northwest ana west of
X-.utsk, the Kussians have driven out
the Austrian, near Kojitche and occu
pied the town of Torchlu, while west
of Kolki, n,.n-'ffutsli, the Aus
trlans have aga'ff repulse,! the Hua
slttns wrio weie atlcfnp'tinS to cross
the Slyr river, intllLling heavy losses
on them. The diversion of the Her
mans on the northern part of the
front apparently has not yei assumed
j great proportions. The latest Petro
i grail official communication merely
tri.i,,ir.,d lw,,t, l,ii r.l u t.r i,..u.,i..n .
....... ,o u.uiiiiiiiii wi itit.ni.ii, ,,0-
at many points, while Herlin
records the defeat of the ltus-
brlgade east of Jacob
increase In the Iliissian
In the region of Ilara
Petrograd, June 13 (11:25 p. m.)
The reports of the occupation of
Cernowliz, capital of Hukowina, by
the llusslans are still without confir
mation, but after the recent defeat of
the Austrian iSeneral I'flanner's army
and the successful Russian operations!
in the immediate vicinity of Cuerno
witx, official news of the fall of the
city Is momentarily expected here.
The Zale Strzyky point of support,
and me of the most important posi
tions on the Dnelster line of forti
fications, also comes within the none
now threatened by the extreme south
ern flank of the Russian force,, and
surrounded as It now Is by the ad
vancing Russians, it Is In nn equally
critical situation.
The two other most Important sec
tors of the front extending from the
Pripet river to Rumania, are the re
gions 80iil h of Lutsk und north ot
Tamopol. From the reports of the
precipitate. Austrian retreat from the
formur region it is Inferred here that
the Austrian were compelled to re
linquish their most Important position
on the Ikwa front tho Torgovina
fortification, which is located at tho
Junction of tho Ikwa and Styr rivers.
The occupied position Is of the
greatest strategic value. Hero tho
same fate overtook the Austrian as
at Mlynoff on the lkwa est of Tor-
ktovilz.,. V'lndinir themselves the tur-i
get for an intense artillery bomhurl-l,'llr ,0 Oiifral
FORCES ISSUE,
REPL1 TO NOTE
TO BE DELAYED
Democratic Administration De
sires to Avoid Appearance
of Playing Politics Before
National Convention,
REJOINDER TO FIRST
CHIEF WILL BE SHARP
Carranza Will Be Rebuked for
Incimmflnne
Be Adduced
Statements,
and Data Will
to Controvert
Washington, June 13. Unlesa "the
ncreaalnir seriousness of conditions In
.Mexico forces action, dispatch of th
Carraiua'a demand
ment from three sides tho garrlsonl""' """w"i oi jvmeneBn troops
fled. Around Tamopol there has Prbnbly will be. delayed until after
been most furious and hustained fight-j"" st- J-1'"1 convention, because the
Ing of all. Upon tho outcome of thls,n,1m,l',,r,ln desires to avoid any
engagement the safety of Iemberg ''rastlo step at a Hum when It might
depends and the Austrlans are strain-iuppeur to be prompted by political In
lng their utmost to prevent further1'' uences.
Russian advances. Tuklng the lnlt-1 Secretary Dinning and his advisers
lativ,, in the region of tllladjl nnd re said to have given careful consld
Vorobievka they are launching a con-;eratlon to the possibility that the ad
tlnuous series of attacks and making 'ministration might bo charged with
considerables gains, but only to have playing- politics In dealing with the
the newly carried positions wrested prohlem. The rapid spread of antl
from them
tt r-attacks.
by the Russians in conn-
CANADIAN'S CAITI'ltE
CONSIDrJIAHI.E TEHItAIN
American propaganda in northern
Mexico, however, coupled with In
creasingly grave economic conditions
may take the situation-out of 'their
hand. f '
Itcady for Eventual lilr.
No official would vehiure a predic
tion tonight as to what might be ex
pected in tho immediate future. In
London, June H Canadian troops,
in what the Hritish official statement'
describes as it "gallant and succest;-!.
f.il nv II " ani.lli.i.inl a? 3M11..K.,l,u
recaptured a former Hrltlsh position Jul?. ! !. somij consuls In Mexico,
over a front of more ,.. l.&OU yards. "nft nV
Notwithstanding a seve hbellmg. 1 w'h.'"', working on the
the Canadians retain the ground ',( trf u 'Jy 'iHtressed
gained, which Is being consolidated. . i,hty th" "f Prolonged disorder.
Tho text of the statement reads: "a" H,ut,,, IN'VKjy that the Wash-
-At 1-:!fl in the. mornlnff the Cam. !"""'.' ....... i i ,-unsiueriug no
mil,... i,.,., i u ,.n,.n, r've action
eCHsful asmtilt, Roiitheust of
Their objective wns our old position
to he taken nf Its
ZllHrt'Wer "" ' iui)9 Tcuuf to aci
HinniKi nssniiits cm Aniorlcanis or any
neighborhood, all of which ""'Wi " 'Oetiernl fenihlnii's forces
efintiireH on the front nt lucked. !" wir.
' " " '
In Hint
was
extending from tho southern portion j Hm,rP rejoinder l being- pre
of Sanctuary wood to a point about I,ni',! to "' Carran.n note; It will
l.onii yards north of Hill 60 a total repeat tho determination of President
front or over l.noi) yards. Wilson to keep American troops In
"In the course of the assault, heavy !l"tlco until the Carralua' forces have
kisses were Inflicted on the enemy, shown their ability and intention to
and three officers nnd 123 men were 'properly police the border states. It
taken prisoner. " I's als rebuke the tie facto govern-
"tnr troops were subjected to a ment for tho suggestions and state
novlchl.
I ,
Canadians Win.
The Canadian troops in the region
of Ypres have made a notable gain
over the C.eruians, retaking from them
conference between representatives of southeast of Zillebeke, in a "gallant
mV MORNINO JOURNAL HC,AI. LIARIO WlRRl
New York, June IS. Although the
lions of the present situation in
industry. A report, based on
i .i. . the ra roads and their emp oyei
he came here as the means of coin-1 1 '
I ' .....t.nl. .),.. I.. ...OI 1.. I .-.I ......
munication between the committee, I "' s.t,ne-
the convention and the president. Mr. j men for both sides declared tonight
Wilson wrote his draft after frequent that the negotiations Intended to avert
questions in their mind. Most of (hearings anil on the results or weens
them do not know exactlv what their jof Investigation by the commission's
lives arc going tq develop into. SomelWnts would be made public soon
of them do not know what occupations' and will be transmitted to congress In
they are going to follow. All of them j response to a resolution asking for
are conjecturing what will be the line I an inquiry.
"f duty and advancement and the til-1 The independent Jobbers and refin
timate goal of success for them. ! irs who appeared before the com
mission today and yesterday were
"There is no conjecture for you. unan moim in p acing respons-
Vou have enlisted in something thnt!''im' t'1" Mandurd Oil companies
1os not stop, when vou leave the.wno Uu'y had charged had refused
! to compete ann no nxea prices.
Standard Oil representatives replied
he fiiir..i ...;,u -,..u.. ,. to the charges but out
meaning, and
i..- consultation witn tenners at vtasiung-!a K.nprni Mtrike nll(l fail(.(1
t MA iAII n.wl 1,1 .A U,.., IviO.lttio, I
I,.!',.. . ' , feren.-e they slate ewill
l iiiuir. i. niiu n. iil uir vmy 01(7 iv,
St. Louis by Secretary Haker.,
lleintM-racy's Three. P's,
Although Mr. Baker declined to
night to disclose the president's plat
form views, these outstanding facts
were learned following his arrival
Xo Uncertainty.
Is no conjecture for you.
HOademy, for you then only begin to
fwilizp it, which then only begins to
you can look forward j explanation of the elements behind
The con-
In all probabil
ity break up tomorrow when the rail
roads finish the explanation of their
"contingent" or counter proposition
to meet the demands of the men.
The failure of the conference does
Uh aboslute certainly to the sort,
"f thing that you will be obliged lo do.
"This has always been true of grad
uating classes at West Point, but the
rertalnty that some of ' the older
'lasses used to look forward to was a
Wry dull certainty. Some of the old
toys In the army I fancy were not
Vpy interesting days. Sometimes
min like the present chief of staff,
f"f example, could fill their lives with
interest of really knowing and
undcrstandinp the Indians of the
jvestern plains, knowing what was go
"K on inside of their minds and
n able to be the intermediary be
'oen them and those who dealt with
'hem by speaking their sign language,
ould enrich their lives, but the ord
nafy life of an ordinary officer at a
"miern post could not have been very'
Siting and I think with admiration!
"'those dull years through which of- j
lcs who had not a great deal to do;
ied, nevertheless, upen being ef-
he Day in Congress
SENATE.
'resident Wilson transmitted mes
e regarding steps taken to protect
American citizens in Ireland.
,,n ator Thomas introduced resolu-
"u" to prohibit onv fnJ,..ol t.o
ing
co,1,iniiance
'""'s thereafter
""'"ve office
in office or for two
from accepting an
12:15 p. m. to noon
bin,inupd
Adjourned
"nesday.
HOUSE.
debate on
fortifications
nt 3:55 p. m. to
the soaring cost of gasoline to con-
i sumers.
Demoralization in the industry
throughout the middle west, inde
pendent jobbers declared, had result
ed from the failure of the Standard
Oil company of Indiana, to compete
with the Standard Oil company of
Ohio, which, by maintaining a retail
prices several cents higher than that
fixed In the west bthe Indiana com
pany attracted the crude oil from the
Texas and Oklahoma independent re
finers. Western dealers, who said
they were forced to sell at the low
figure set by the Indiana capital
charged that they were being put out
of business by Inability to get oil.
John (I. Milburn, counsel for the
Standard Oil company of New Jersey,
and 1!. V Stewart, a director of the
Indiana corporation, declared the In
diana and Ohio concerns were not in
fluenced by a common directorate but
said it would be bad business judg
ment for them to compete.
"It would cost half a million dol
lars to establish Hiring stations and
selling agencies in Ohio," Mr. Stew
art, said. "The Ohio 'company which
now enjoys a few tents advantage,
would Immediately reduce its price
and the Indmnu concern would
no advantage in selling and no way
o recover the money spent in sab s
equipment."
not mean that a general strike of the
Tho platform will dwell principally . 350, 000 railroad men affected will
on "pence, preparedness for peace and j Immediately follow, both the railroad
prosperity." j men and managers say. The result
Despite agitation by some demo- of the conference must first be re
cratlc. leaders, President Wilson tils-, ported to the men. A strike vote will
approved of the insertion of a plank, follow and If the strike Is authorized
1 1 1 1 1 1 o i s i n it nom nation oi a sunremoitne worsers u- I hoi, renew their
not emer mio rnun justice for president. Or favor- demands. Only In the event of ail
ing a constitutional .amendment pro-i other failure to agree, either through
'and successful assault," more than
l,r00 yards tif former Hritish posi
tions which the Oernians raptured re
cently. The regained ground was
held despite a vigorous shelling by the
I ermans.
After driving their wedge farther
into the French line northeast of Ver
dun Monday, the ( ioniums on Tuesday
did not follow up their advantage with
infantry attacks. Only Intermittent
bombardments are taking place
around Verdun.
In the UaraiUnn valley of the Aus-trn-ltalian
theater, the Italians have
taken by assault strong Austrian po
sitions and repulsed heavy coiinter-
(severe shelling for several hours after, ments In Its note, questioning the good
gaining the position, but were well faith of tho Washington admlnlstra
supported by our artillery nnd re- Hon. I
talned tho ground gained, which is Ijnislng Has Evidence,
being consolidated. Heavy bombard- Secretary Uinslngr has before him a
mentH l.y the enemy have contln-jmass of data dealing With the ftsser
ned during the day. during which Itions of fact sot up by the Mexican
our ortill.Ty replied effectively. Inote. lie expects to he able to refute
"Attempts of tho hostile infantry 'most of these statements, nnd dally
to counter attack were frustrated by crops of messages from Mexico tell
our artillery fire. iiir of new disturbances Will supply
"Last night our troops carried out 'additional evidence that tho de facto
successful raids northeast of Ypres government doe not In fact exercise
and south of the Hois Orenler. AtlUl0 oontro H t.lallis ov(!r tno bonler
tho latter place, a party nf Australian gmtes. t' '
troops entered tho enemy's trenc hes, ; ,.,,n'dn)r tho sending-' 6f ' the reply,
causing him a known loss of twelve .,.,, havil hl,n ,,, ... - r.M fn, ,,,
probably others and cap-iUliys toward nH.Hln? uny emergency
prisoners. Two trend, !..., n,v ,..,. Pn .,., A
ram- i,,..
have resulted
definite plans
navy department officials
In the formulation of
for tho removal , of
"There wns less shelling than usual I
around Souchez and the l.oos salluut''
other
hibiting justices from seeking
public feooral offices.
Progressives to He Attracted.
The president desires adoption, of
a platform so progressive that It will
appeal to and attract members of the
compromise or arbitration would the
atrlko order become effective.
Double CmM'iisflllon Snag.
The demands of the men include an
eight hour day, time nnd a half for
.overtime, an,j the retention of exist-
progressive party but without an open, ing methods of double compensation
direct Invitation to the progressives to i for different forms of labor. Tho
swing their strength to the demo-j "contingent" proposition of the rail
cratic ticket. roads, while grunting the shorter
Woman suffrage workers will bo ( work day and increased overtime, ex
reeognlsed but the platform probably i eludes the double compensation feat
will suggest that they exhaust their lure. It is the last named fact that
efforts for the ballot in the respective ! has caused the apparent disruption of
Teutonic Sons Indorse Hughes.
Chicago, June 13. The Teutonic
Sons of America, through the national
council of the organization, today an
nounced the adoption ;at p. meeting
here of resolutions felicitating Charles
E. Hughes and Charles W. Fairbanks
upon their nomination and calling
upon "all American citizens of Teu
tonic extraction of sympathy." '
states, the primary authority for po
litical qualifications.
To Dwell on Record.
The principal planks, it was au
thoritatively stated, will deal with the
administration's trials and achieve
ments in handling international and
Mexican affairs, its rapid and delib
erate stepB toward "preparedness for
peace," and the administration's rec
ord of economic and industrial legis
lation contributing to general pros
perity. With the president's platform draft
Secretarv Haker also brought Infor
mation regarding the aggressive cam
paign planned In l.half of Mr. Wil
son. Spelliumllng will be us prinoi-
have ,,.,1 feature, the country to be covered
by prominent democratic orators. Vice
President Marshall, Secretary Haker, jof
Secretary Ijtne and Senator James of
Kentucky, scheduled to be. permanent
convention chairman, and Represent
ative Clahd Kitchin of North Carolina,
democratic leader of the house, will
be the orators most relied upon,
other prominent campaigners, it is
expected, will be Senators Lew is, Hol
ds, Heed and Owen, with an array of
others from both senate and house.
Who Will He Manager?
The president has not decided on
the conference,
It was expected the conference
would be finished today, but the
questions asked by the men regarding
the railroads' counter proposition re
quired such complicated answers that
a nirtner adjournment was taken un
til tomorrow.
Head Trainman Tukes Part.
W. G. Lee, president of the Broth
erhood of Hailroad Trainmen, took
his seat at the conference table today
for the first time. He tried at first
to smooth out the situation, hut when
he fully understood, the railroads"
stand he became irreconcilable as his
follows. II. A. Wheeler, vice presi
dent of the Union Trust company of
Chicago and chairman of the railroad
situation committee of the chamber
commerce of the United States.
was Introduced at the dose of the
session. He pleaded for an amicable
settlement of the dispute and de
clared his committee was working to
prevent a general strike.. He said the
chamber of commerce was co-operating
to the fullest extent hy seeking
to have congress extend the fpowers!
or tho interstate commerce commis
sion to Include the regulation of the
hours, wages and working conditions
of railroad men.
Wilson Calls Upon Country
to Observe Flag Day Today
M
seemed
purpose
fore seemed
approach of
Y FELLOW OOUNTP.YMF.N: Many circumstances have re
cently conspired to turn our thoughts to a critical exami
nation of the conditions of our national life, of the Influ
ences which hae seemed to threaten to divide us in Inter
est ami sympathy, of forces within and forces without that
likely to draw us away from the happy traditions of united
and action of which we have been so 'nroud. It has there
to me fitting that 1 should call your attention to the
the anniversary of tho tlav iinon whu i, the flair of
the I lilted Males was ndopted by the congress as the emblem of the
I nlon, and to suggest to you that it should this year and in the
years to come be given special significance as a (lay of renewal and
reminder, a day upon which we should direct our minds with a spe
cial ib-sire of renewal to thoughts of the Ideals and principles of
which we have sought to make our great government the embodi
ment. 1 therefore suggest nnd request that throughout the nation und
If possible in every community tho fourteenth day of June be ob
served as l-'LAU DAY with special patriotic exercises, at which
moans shall be taken to give significant expression to our thought
ful love of America, our comprehension of the great mlfslon of
liberty and Justice to which we have devoted ouiselves as a people,
our pride In the history and our enthusiasm for the political pro
gramme of the nation, our determination to make It greater and
purer with each generation, nnd our resolution to demonstrate lo
all the vforld Its vital union in sentiment and purpose, accepting
only those as true compatriot who feel as we do the compulsion
of this supreme allegiance. Let us on that day rodedlealo our
selves to the nation, "one and inseparable," from which every
thought that Is not worthy of ur fathers' first vows in independ
ence, liberty, and right shall be excluded anil in which we shall
stand with united hearts, for an Anicricu which no man can cor
rupt, no influence draw away from lis ideals, no force divide against
Itself, a nation signally distinguished among all the nations of
mankind for its clear, individual conception alike of Its duties and
its privileges, lis obligations and its rights.
IN WITNESS WHKUEOF 1 have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of Ihe United Slates to be affixed.
Done at the cltv of Washington this thirtieth day of Mav, In
the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and sixteen, and
of the independence of the United States of America the one hun
dred nnd fortieth.
SKAL) WOODROW WIIJ40X.
l!y the President:
ItortEICT LANSINC, Secretary of State.
killed and
hiring six
mortars were destroyed. The
Ing party returned safely, the only
casualties being one officer and one I,
....... ,..,u ...i. .!.... . .....a
....... .. ..u n ,,u,ll hoiliv. 111 .HV.!"
I,n,.,u aht i. .1,1 ......I..... mi.
("'tin niiiuiu u. nruuun UUtUIBHK Oi
antl-Amerlcan feeling force them to
,flfte, or should there bo a clash be
tween American and Mexican troopa.
It Is known, ton, that the possibility
of calling out more stato militia to
protect the border has been the sub
ject of renewed discussion among of
ficials. J Mollies Are Mysterious.
I Tho motives behind the anti-Amerl-'can
propaganda nnd tho precise atti
tude of General Carranza toward the
agitation both are subjects of specula
tion. Many officials ure convinced
that Ihe de facto government is tot
tering nnd think General Carranza
may huve font his btdligerent note
with the deliberate purpose of pro
voking the Washington government to
Intervention.
The control of the first chief over
ihe various elements of his army and
fif his civil government Is manifectly
weakening, according to official re
ports. Instances have been reported
where tux collectors sent by the Car
ranza government have been driven
out by stale authorities and people.
Decrees have been promulgated by
state governors, dealing with matters
that belong, under the Mexican consti
tution, purely to the central govern
ment. Army May.Hcsert.
In dealing win, the army, CarramtH
dares not Impose duties repugnant to
subordinate officers, according to the
view of some officials, for feur his or
ders would be disregarded. While,
some of the troops of his own person
al following would remain loyal, it is
said many parts of the army would
obey instructions from their direct
leaders without regard to Carranza's
wishes.
The fact that the great bulk of the
Mexican people have only such re
ports of what has happened and Is
happening in the border states as their
leaders choose to give them, Increases
the danger of the situation. A dem
onstration that might end In blood-
I
