. ; ."' "f
-w ,V "l-'Z
Wfcltt
WEAT.IER FORECAST:
Fair Today and Tomorrow
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
i
"V? "-. c '
T
NTJMBEB 8031.
President Leads 60,000 in
As Thousands Line Avenue
q p u i mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
BBVBBBBBbHBBBBhBBBBBBBbBBBBBBbBBB1BhBBBBBB BlBaHaW MMbMMMSF - " "" '' ,1m 'BBBBBBB""BMvBb ''2V
BBBBBBWBSBMBBBBBBBBBMMBBBBBBBBBBBBa AMBMBBBBBBBa BBBWii TABBlMaB Bf ,BBBBBBBBBBa .-Bfc " "BBf fBBBBBBBBBBxfcWMLBBBBlBBB Bt
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBB9BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB1' BBB BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB "VBBV BBBBl tjB BBBBBBBWBBB Bl BBBB1 iBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl BB atdr imA tm & BBBT 4 BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBiv L Tlffc k wBBBBBBBBBBBBS BV oBM
WHIHHBH'ktftH 'Ai.V TbTbbI M BBBBBmVB BbTbI V bTbB ' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbTb BTbV T jBBBV Y ABBBBBBBBBBBbTbBBBBBBBBBbTbTbTbV BBBBBBBBBfBBmABBWI iBVy'jBBB
V BBBBBBbVBBBBBbY BBABBBBBBBBBBBV vABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBV bBBVBB BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBV' jiA3 BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBi MPAm BBBBV BBBBBBwJVJ v vBBV K bVI BBV BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbV BvST 4y y" 3EH 4 tM y BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBS v V TX L b VBBBBBBBBBBB& uBBB
IBBBbVSbBWABBTBBbIbBBBbTbI TmMbBBBBBbPv'" 'l&BTBBBBBBBBBBrP " I ' bTtIi 'I bWHI BBBBBBbKPIbbTbTbI bL. f " biLiABBBBBBBBBBBBBBi m NNtbbbbbm H I
I TTil Mill BMBbI IIMbBB ''W ' tMBBBOBBBBBBBB W' Xfc ' '''BBBBWiBBmvl BVr" 'Ut v9TbBBBBBBBBBBBBBB' B? bIbbSv H
vv''r;',SwX . B .3 BBBBviBi BBaE? ' I ' ' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBW ' WSBB E
PRESIDENT WILSON LEADING PREPAREDNESS PARADE, FLANKED ON RIGHT BY WJLLIAM F. GUDE, AND
s-j : t - - - 1, . -
DEMOCRATS GATHER
IN ST. LOUIS
STANDARD
By PERRY ARNOLD.
ST. LOUIS, June 1 4.-Something more than 2,000
persons assembled here today to renominate Woodrow Wil
son for President and Thomas' Riley Marshall for Vice Pres
ident. The Democratic national convention was called to
order at noon by National Chairman McCombs and started
on its oratorical way.
The women suffragists and the flag furnished the
color to the gathering today. Democrats seized upon Flag
Day to arouse the crowd to a high frenzy of patriotism.
Nearly 15,000 flags were distributed to delegates, alter
nates, and spectators. At a given signal two big flags were
unfurled in the Coliseum, and, with the band playing "The
Star-Spangled Banner," the great hall was transformed into
a sea of waving flags.
The u omen staged a silent demonstration of their plea
for the ballot. For two hours the suffrage workers, dressed
in the white and gold of the suffrage colors, lined Locust
street, for the distance between the Jefferson Hotel and the
Coliseum. They didn't say a word the idea was to bore in
on the c msciousness of the delegates the fact that the
women desired equal suffrage.
Because of the very fact that the work of the conven
tion is to be perfunctory there was a growing sentiment to
day among delegates that the work will be hurried along.
. MAY ADVANCE NOMINATION.
There may be an attempt made to ad
vance the date of the nomination. The
delegates know there U only ono candi
date ror the Presidential nomination;
they are perfectly willing to adopt any
aort of a platform, pleasing to him. so
why fusa nnd speechify, and bake In
the heat and pay big hotel rates for sev
eral perfectly unnecessary days?
The plan to consolidate several of the
purely speech-making sessions grew In
favor today with knowledge that Presi
dent Wilson regards unluckv Friday as
one of his lucky days, and would be
perfectly happy to be renominated on
that dav. The original plan was to wait
until after midnight Friday to put
through the national ticket.
The piogram for today's session was
purely routine. First of all. Chairman
McCombs rung his swan song as
national chairman. Then he introduced
. tho temporary chairman, former
Gov. Martin H. Olynn of Now York, the
"koy-noter." His aneech concluded,
there wero a few details of organiza
tion to be attended to before tho con
vention adjourned until tomorrow.
The Dmoirnts would like very much
to have some soit of n row Lreik to
furnish a little excitement and make.
TO NAME
BEARERS
tho convention seem more like a Demo
cratic pntherlng. Put there didn't
Beem today to be nnythlng belligerent
anywhere or an. Isue where her was
a chance for bollleon-ncy -sven a des
perately Inflated series of boomletn for
Roger Sulllvnn and Governor Malnr us
Vice Ptesldcntlul nominees having
failed tc attain a slzti sufficient to in
sure u real contrst ncnlnit M-u shall.
National Committeeman Kdwarrt F.
Goltra, of Missouri, has been tho one
real peppery, belligerent Democrat In
St. Louis and he wni sat duwn upon
hard by the national committee, so
nothing remained.
Goltra tried to hold up tho whol con
vention until he was given what h
considered hla share of tlcknts, but the
committee simply sicked Chnrl.iy White,
of orize ring famo. on him Wluto hln
official doorkeeper of the convention
and Goltra faded away.
Former Governor Glynn's "Key
note speech" will be found on
Pago Thirteen.
WASHINGTON,
WOMEN
SHOWING IN PARADE
Thousands Call Forth Plaudits
For Soldierly Bearing and At
tractive Appearance.
The women marchers of whom there
were thousands In the parade, made a
fine showing.
This was this unanimous verdict of
the thousands who lined the Avenue
and occupied every available window
or sent of vantage to view the great
demonstration.
Attired in various cr.stumcs and uni
forms, but with white dresaeo predomi
nating, the famlnen participants Im
mediately attracted attention for thetr
soldlerlv bearing, and tho precision with
which they marched.
Kach carrying an American flag or
some other lorm of national emblem,
the bright colors of which contrasted
with the white garb, gave the appear
ance of on expertly drilled compuny of
skirted soldiers.
The first largo body of women march
ers In the pnrado weie thoso from tho
Bureau of Engraving nnd Printing.
Twenty-five abreast, tho feminine
marcher stretched away for two
squares. Each woro white duck com
plete, with hat of tho sam material
and whlto shoes.
Each One Carries Flag.
The first women In tho huge demon
stration woro employe of the Treas
ury and War Dnpartrnents. In c.ich
unit, the w'Qmen carried large Ameri
can rtai?3 in addition to the Individual
IIikh of ench marcher
The Navy division, which was one
of tho lawres and most Imptesslve of
the ontiro pageant had only a snjnll
liioto of women inarcheis, but tho
novelty of their fuimatlon attraclud
much attention. Tnreo lines or twenty-five
abreast wero ncen with tho
front line carrying red umbrellas, the
second whlto. and the third blue,
forming the national colors.
Real women soldiers woie seen in
the Intel lor Dipartmont division,
when the Home Club Target Club
passed. In this portion of the parade
the thirty femlnlno sharpshooters
were numheri'd.
The Indian Bureau of the Interior
Departniiint also boasted of 'many
womn rmirchfrs. Tartlsularly ef
fective were the ymtng women who
represented the Carlisle Indian School.
At lrtrvnls durltur th parade, these
expf'tly drilled voting woninn demon
strated tl er military knowledge by
various formations using the w.ldest
iirt of the Avenue In front of the
Washington Times building to give a
cnmnletr d-'fonitratlon.
St. Patrick's Children in Green.
The Interior Department division
also Included a section demonstrative
of the nursing staffs of various Gov
ernment hospitals, Tho first portion
of this exhibit was formed by women
wearing tno regulation nurses' cos
tume, with whlto apron and caps to
match. Following thorn woro nurses
In the Bureau of Mines first aid serv
ice. A unlnue feature of tho natreant
was the presence of the hundreds of
children from St. Patrick's parish
schools. Each wore a white dress.
MAKE
IN
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 14, 1016.
Parade Likely to Last
Until 6 o'clock.
Although the procession is mov
ing at a good thrce-milc-an-hour
pace, and the marchers
arc in close formation, as com
pared with other pageants held
here, it was estimated .this
afternoon that it will require
between eight and nine hours
for the 60,000 participants to
pass.
By actual count, 3,500 passed be
fore the Munsey building be
tween 11 and 11:30 this morn
ing. This is at the rate of
7,000 an hour, and on this basis
it will require just eight hours
and a half for the pageant to
pass.
These figures indicate that it will
be 6 o'clock this afternoon be
fore the last division passes
before tho President's review
ing stand.
HONOR OF THE FLAG
Yea-and-Nay Vote Necessary,
However, Before Paying This
Respect.
The House of Representatives adjourn
ed "out of respect to and loyalty for
the American Flag" at 12:10 o'clock to
day without transacting any business.
The motion for adjournment wbb made
by Congressman Mann of Illinois.
The motion, however, was only
adopted after a yea and nay vote had
been demanded by Congressman Webb
of North Carolina.
The vote was 92 for adjournment,
ngalnst 62, with five members voting
present. The House will reconvene at
12 o'clock tomorrow.
Pindell Wants Wilson
To Address Convention
KT. Louis, June 14. Henry M. t'ln
dell, of Illinois, once named as am
bassador to Russia, has suggested that
a motion be made In the convention to
Invite President Wilson to come hero
Saturday and address the convention.
Ho has asked one of the Texas dele
gation to make the motion.
Plan our Summer Now!
From the Resort and Excursion ad
vertisements In today's Times, pages
16 and 17. Advt
HOUSE ADJOURNS IN
Preparedness Parade
and Cheer Marchers
PRESDENT
ON FOOT
L
E
Wilson, Carrying Flag, Marches
to White House, Then Re
views Pageant.
With shoulders thrown back and
head erect. President Wilson, carry
ing a large silken Hag, marched on
foot today at tho head of Washing
ton's Preparedness Parade
From the Peace Monument to the
White House the route of the parade
dense crowds lined Pennsylvania
avenue, cheering themselves hoarse.
At the end of the line of march. In
front of the Whlto House, a review
ing stand, draped with tho national
colors and guarded by a squad of
cavalry, had been nlaced. Here the
President dropped out of line, and,
with members of his family about
him and officials of the parade com
mittee, he reviewed the parade as It
passed.
President on Time
Prompt as always on his appoint
ments, tho President was on hand at
the Peace Monument Just ono minute
before 9:30 o'clock. He had driven down
In one of tho White House cars with
Mrs, Wilson, who, leaving him there,
drove back to the reviewing stand.
Following up the car containing the
President wens the Secret Service
squad, headed by Chief Flynn, which
spread out to either side and behind tho
President: Secretary to tho President
Tumulty, who was to head the clerks
of the Executive offices, who marched
behind the President: Col. W. W. Harti,
the President's military aide, who wai
In civilian clothes, and Assistant Secre
taries Forster and Hrahnnv.
The President wore a straw hat. dark
(Continued on Pago Twelve.)
CONCERT GIVEN BY
WOMAN MARCHERS
A feature of the parade of unusual
Interest was the singing by the mem
bers of the Ladles of tho O. A. R.
and tho Daughters of tho Confederacy.
Before tho parade started tho women
gave an Impromptu concert at New
Jersey avenue and E streets, where they
were waiting to fall into line.
The two organizations wero close to
gether In line and the Ladles of the O.
A. R. started singing patriotic songs.
Tho Daughters of tho Confederacy Join
ed In, and for half or three-quarters
of an hour a regular concert was given.
"The Star-Spangled 'Banner," "Ameri
ca," "The Red, White, and Blue,"
"Dixie," "Yankee Doodle," and most of
tho patriotic songs were sung and re
sung several times.
Army Appropriation Bill
Provides $157,000,000
The House Committee on Military Af
fairs today voted to report out the
army appropriation bill carrying a total
amount of im.uw,uui.
One-half million dollars was added at
tho request of Secretary of War Baker
for summer training camps.
EADS HUGE PARAD
ON LEFT- BY RUDOLPH
CAPITAL EXPRESSES
"SPIRIT OF 1916" IN
MONSTER PAGEANT
"Citizen" Woodrow Wilson at Head, as Rep
resentatives of Every Government De
partment and Bureau March Down
Nation's Appian Way in Great Defense
Demonstration.
Sixty thousands men, women, and children marched
through Pennsylvania avenue today to express the spirit of
1916. . '
The President, marching as "Citizen" Woodrow Wil
son, walked at their head. Employes of every Government
department and bureau, for the first time in history, marched
together in the procession.
The parade moved along the most historic thorough
fare, the Appian way of the nation. There the spirit of
other years of '61 and qf '98, has found expression.
There inaugural processions have moved, there the
nation has honored its returning heroes, and yearly paid
them added tribute, there funeral corteges have passed,
there great demonstrations of all kinds have been held.
Never before have thousands paraded there to express
a hope and a conviction. Today the parade commemor
ated no event. It was a city's tribute to the flag, an expres
sion of loyalty to Americanism, a demonstration for pre
paredness." STARTS IN CAPITOL'S SHADOW.
The parade started under the shadow
of the Capitol's dome, where assemble
the men who realize the spirit of the na
tion. It ended near the White House,
where the last pen stroke of n declara
tion of war, In the case of such a crisis,
would be taken. It took place In the
city on which the nation's eyes are
focused. It was impressed upon tho
attention of the men who make the na
tion's laws.
For the first time In history a Presi
dent of the United States marched on
foot at tho head of a parade along
Pennsylvania avenue,
For the first time every branch of the
Federal service was represented In a
procession.
For tho first time men and women, In
all walks of life, boys and girls, and
even children, voluntarily came together
for no other purpose than to give ex
pression to an Ideal,
Thousands of Women.
Most remarkable, perhaps, of the
many significant features ot the pro
PKICE ONE CENT.
rhoto by Duck.
KAUFFMANN.
cession, was tho presence of thousands
of women In the line.
If they didn't plan to raise their "boy
to be a soldier," thny apparently bolleve
their sons should bo ready to bo sol
diers If the nation needs them,
President Wilson emphasized the unof
ficial character of his participation by
marching on foot, by his costume, and
by the absence of nny smack of of
ficialdom Tho President wore white duck trous
ers, a double breasted blue sack coat,
a atraw hat, and carried an American
flag over his right shoulder Me stop
ped out with alacrity and kept up a
fast, oven pace down tho Avenue.
The marchers moved with greater
speed than Is usual tor long parados,
The music of the bands, for the most
part, was lively, nnd somotlmcs martial,
Sixty thousand took nnrt in the
parade: to'is of thousands more ex
pressed their approval by npplauso and
cheers as the poraders pasied.
Tho President was , cheered, and ho
bowed to left and rlht In acknowledge
(Continued on Pace Twelve.)
fc
