2 fli
4 w
VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLAHOMA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 1916.
NUMBER 215.
V
1
nrnnnPDflTip nnNiOTinu nrpflR
ULIS UullH I IU UUli ILIS I IUIV ULUftla
IN ST, LOUIS
WITHOUT A SINGLE ELEMENT TO DISTURB CEREMONI
OUS RENOMINATION OF WILSON AND MARSHALL
CONVENTION OPENED
Keynote is "Americanism and Peace, Preparedness and Pros
perity" Bryan Cheered as He Entered the Hall Glynn
Given Ovation as he Stepped Forward to Deliver the Key
note Speech Democratic Platform Will Appeal to Pro
gressive and Organized Labor Vers, According to Plans
of Democratic Leaders Frank . 'sh, Former Chairman
of Industrial Commission, to Sub. , 'ank for Denouncing
Use of Militia Against Organized r vers and Declaring
Riffht of Labor Unions to Organize Delegates Toss
ed Miniature Bales of Cotton from Flo the Convention
V I 11 -
nan. . .
Coliseum, St. Louis, Mo., June 14.
With the keynote of "Americanism,
Peace, Preparedness and Prosperity,''
the democratic national convention
began its first session at 12:31 today
with not a single element to disturb
the harmonious rcnomination of Wll
.son and Marshall.
All prospects of a fight in the con
vention went glimmering with Bry
an's announcement that he would not
press certain plank3, and would stump
for Wilson. Prolonged cheers greet
ed Bryan's entry into the hall.
The first stunt of the convention
was put on by the Texas delegates,
who tossed miniature bales of cotton
from the floor to the galleries.
Chairman McCombs delivered his
brief opening speech, followed by
,Rev. Lee offering prayer.
After the call for the convention,
McCombs announced the temporary
officers and Martin H. Glynn opened
with the keynote speech. He was
given an immense ovation as he
stepped forward to speak.
The convention adjourned at 2:49
until 11 tomorrow.
Expressions of approval were hoard
today among the delegates to the
convention of the suggested plan to
win over the progressives by making
overtures in the democratic platform.
Frank P. Walsh, former chairman
of the federal industrial relations
commission, submitted a proposed in
dustrial plank today denouncing the
use of militia against organized
workers. The plank also declared
the rights of labor unions to organ
ize. Forty minutes before noon, the
time scheduled to call the conven
tion to order, there were only a score
of delegates on the floor, the plat
form was almost 'deserted, the gal
leries were filling slowly and carpen
ters were putting the finishing touch
es on the hall.
Chairs for the delegates and alter
nates were jammed together, the
seating arrangements for. both of
them being much more congested
than either of the Chicago conven
tions. The hall filled rapidly just before
noon. Delay in opening the doors
jrevented an earlier Influx of spec-
taTRrs. The crowds were not allow
ed to march into the building, but
a few delegations came en masse.
"Moving picture machines were plant-
ed at every available point. Many
of the delegates soon removed their
coals.
At 11:43 the band began playing
the opening selection in accompani
ment to a male quartet that sang a
hew song about Americans through
'f 11 K
'egaphones. The song brought the
first aDPlause of the day. The dele-
i gates then joined In singing national
"rebel yell" A "woody tiger' was
sent to Chairman McComb's desk
k xr .loWatP ThB rrowd
': ...... i. ..jli.nrl rvnwprfnl nrpnaredness. It has
'was oraeny anu quin ua u ""
win
4 Chairman McCombs took his place
J
t the desk at 1Z:3U, nan an nour
Into omirt rhpprs and annlause. A
few thumps of his gavel quickly se
cured order.
' iEx-Governor Glynns declaration as
(CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHT)
n
a
a
a
a
a
WEATHER FORECAST
New Orleans, La., June 14.
The weather forecast for Okla
homa for tonight and Thurs
day Is generally fair.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
!
AT
TODAY.
IN CALLING DEMOCRATIC CON
VENTION TO ORDER, CHAIRMAN
McCOMBS LAUDS ADMINSTRA
TION'S RECORD.
St. Louis, Mo., June 14. In calling
the democratic national convention to
order at noon today, Win. F. Mc
Combs, chairman of the democratic
'national committee, said:
"Ladies and Gentlemen of the Con
vention: We are in an atmosphere
of victory. We meet to celebrate
the marvelous achievements of the
democratic party since it came into
power and to place a milestone
upon the path of its future success.
"The republican party for years
deceived the country. Now it is de
ceiving itself. In its platform it of
fers pulehritudinous promise but
with vacuous intent.
"It promises the country in the
main what the democratic party has
already done or is in the process of
doing, saving always, the bogus god
'protection.' lit has cloaked its in
iquity with a judicial robe, but the
cloven hoof of special Interest still
protrudes.
"We have recently witnessed the
spectacle of two great American par
ties at Chicago putting self-glorification
in place of national honor; re
publicanism and progresslvlsm, so
called, in place of our only 'ism'
Americanism.
"We have witnessed the drab spec
tacle of two groups of men treading
principles like competitors in a fish
market, in the hope that some com
promise would win public support.
They have not come together they
have fallen out of the 'swag.' The
result is inevitable 'divided they
fall.' We are proud in the thought
that 'united we stand.' We welcome
the pent-up Americanism of the real
progressives Individually to our ranks,
offering them a haven, in principle.
Their leaders have abandoned them.
"This Is a crucial hour in the his
tory of the world, an hour when
everyone should see whether his con
science squares with the periods of
dramatic episode when this country
resolutely maintained peace with
honor.
"The democratic party, in the face
of vicious attacks, has maintained
this great American Ideal. While
for peace. It has worked for sound
maintained dignity in the f;
cumstances which might have drawn
It Inln Ihn vnrtBT nf a world destrUC-
- - -
tion. It has maintained friendly re
NOON TODAY i zr; M r
PRAISE QF M
lations throughout the world; it has
been -true to the spirit of America.
The country has found that it's con
fidence has been well bestowed. The
democratic party has proved itself
a party of principle, a party of con
structive ability, a party of per
formance. It has proved that ideals
can be realized. United we stand
for America!
"Ladies and gentlemen, the Ele
phant is Dead; the Moose is dead.
Long live the American Eagle!"
Time savers, the wxnt a da.
Question of New National Chairman
i" v& THINKS -WILSON E52aL , !
! ty Vfv AND SULLIVAN -7?
" Hf&j9 SOUNDS WEIL '
A ! J
10 RUN .CAMPAIGN Wm I
fflBff: TAOGART OF fVuwW i
VU fj i r T- INDIANA-LIKES I Ui llH
I 'FOLK' OR KlS NEW. TOGA MV
If -M))M m Missouri. y UI
yfcl I J F0RVIC6 PRESIDENT
St. Louis, June 14. With the question of the presidential nomination virtually settled, the matter of the campaign
has been occupying democratic minds assembled for the convention. Several men have been mentioned as the
new chairman of the national committee to succeed William F. McCombs, who resigned. It looks as though
'Homer S. Cumniings of Connecticut, at present vice chairman, would be chosen. The big fellows will be hero for
the convention, which is much in the nature of a love feast. Three of them, who are powers in their states, are
Charles F. Murphy of New York, Thomas Taggart of Indiana and Koger Sullivan of Illinois. The latter is credited
with an ambition to supplant Marshall on the ticket of four years ago. The same desire is said to prevail in the
mind of Joseph W. Folk of Missouri, former governor. '
Ardmore Must Raise $56,250 for New Hotel
BUSINESS TO BE SUSPENDED AND MASS MEETING TO BE HELD IN TABER-
NACLE TOMORROW MORNING
Whether Ardmore shall have a big modern hotel or not will be definitely decided at a
mass meeting to be held at the Tabernacle at 10:30 o'clock tomorrow morning. J. R. Sharp
will be back in Ardmore tomorrow' night for the answ er and it is expected that the matter will
be closed before the end of the meeting, at noon.
Business Suspended
Business is to be suspended from 10:30 tomorrow morning until after the mass meeting,
and every man in the city is expected to answer the call to, arms.
The proposition in a nutshell is that local men take up $50,250.00 in a stock company
with $175,000.00 capital stock. Mr. Sharp puts up the balance of the cash needed for the
building which is to cost no less than $125,000.00. Former Governor Cruce and Mr. Sharp will
take up the value of the lot in stock. '
Must Not Fail. '
There is" to be no long drawn out canvass for the money and no second appeal will be
made, but tomorrow's meeting will settle for all time the hotel matter. Men are waiting to
pour their money into the project, they stand ready to promote any and every cause which
will develop this 'city. It is necessary for every Ardmore booster to be out.
PROCLAMATION.
TO THE PUBLIC SPIRITED CITIZENS OF ARDMORE:
Every man interested in the permanent growth and prosperity of this city realizes the
importance of the erection of a modern hotel of sufficient capacity to meet the needs of a
growing city. Until this handicap is overcome, Ardmore cannot go forward in its building as
it deserves to do and as its citizens desire it to do. .
The people of the city now have offered them a proposition which, if promptly accepted
will meet the necessities confronting us. The time to act is now. We have debated this ques
tion until every man in the city is familiar with conditions as they exist, and we should settle
now once for all the question of whether or not our people can be relied upon to neet an
emergency when it arises.
Feeling the need of immediate action, we, the undersigned acting Mayor of the City of
Ardmore, President of the Chamber of Commerce and President of the Business Men's Asso
ciation, appeal to the citizens of Ardmore, whether engaged in business, trades or professions,
to close their respective places of business and offices promptly at 10:30 a. m. to 12:00 to
morrow, and attend a mass meeting to be held in the tabernacle on Broadway and C Street,
at which time a final conclusion will be arrived at determining whether or not Ardmore will
arise to the occasion that confronts it and pave the way for the continued growth of a mod
ern city. Hitherto in every crisis confronting the welfare of the town, our people have re
sponded promptly and splendidly, and we Bhall be grievously disappointed if our public spir
ited men shall hesitate to comply with this re-quest and lend us their aid in solving this pr
oblem so vitally interesting to our citizens.
O. C. LASHER, Acting Mayor,
J. S. MULLEN, Pres. Chamber of Commerce.
J. W. KRUEGER, Pres. Bus. Men's Association.
Has Been Agitating the Democrats
GLYNN
T
FORMER NEW YORK GOVERNOR
OPENS CONVENTION OF DEM
OCRATIC "ARTY.
PRAISE HIS POLICY
Points Assailants of Wilson's Foreign
Policy to Course Pursued tiy Grant
When Spanish Attacked American
Ship.
St. Louis, June H. With the as
sertion that no Konldont slnco tha
tit v 1 1 wnr Ima had ua crucial prob
lems to solve; and no prpxldont 1ms
displayed a grasp more sure, tl Klnles
mansliip more profound, as Presi
dent Wilson, Hon. Martin H. Glynn,
former governor of New York, open
ed the democratic convention hero
today. Declaring that "Americanism
and peace, preparedness nnd pros
perity are the Issues upon which
the democratic party stands, and tho
heart of democracy swells with prido
that is more than a pride of party,
as It hails tho man, who has nsscrted
this Americanism, assured this peace,
advocated this preparedness and pro
duced this prosperity," lie predicted
the reelection of President Wilson.
Taking up our foreign relations
that has hecn called into emphatic -
prominence hy tho world wide war
the speaker declared that "We have
entered this hall as Americans
Tho policy of neutrality, he argued, la
as truly American as tho American
Hag. For two hundred years neu
trality was n theory; America made
it a fact. "It took Washington and
his successors eighty years of end
less negotiation to win recognition
of American neutrality. . And this
eighty years of strugglo wove tho .
doctrine of neutrality so closely Into
the warp and woof of our national
life that to tear it out now would
unravel the very threads of our ex
istence." Hy the records of history
Mr. Glynn maintained that if Wash
ington and Lincoln were right, Pres
ident "Wilson Is right. The neutral
ity that President Wilson stands for
today 'was advocated by Washington,
by Hamilton, by Jefferson and by
Lincoln.
Hy citing precedents Mr. Glynn
justified and defended the course of
the president In the Lusltanla and
similar incidents. "In the face of
this record," he asked, "Do repub
licans realize that when they arraign
the policy of the president of the
United States today they arraign the
policy of Harrison, of Blaine, of Lin
coln and of Grant? For the pleas
ure of criticisiug a democratic pres
ident, are they willing to readout
of the republican party the greatest
men tho republican party ever had?
Are they willing to say that the
republican party of today condemns
what Hamilton did In revolutionary
days, what Lincoln did in civil war
days and what Grant and Blaine
and Harrison did but yesterday?
"In his policy of peaceful negotia
tions today the president of the Uni
ted States follows the example set
him by the greatest presidents 'which
the democratic party and the great
est presidents of the republican par
ty ever gave this nation."
Mr. Glynn Impressed on his, hear
ers that It was the business of this
convention "representing every sec
tion of the United States, speaking
for every racial strain in American
to send forth a message to all tho
world that will leave no room for
doubt.
"We must enable every real Amer
ican to stand up and assert his Am
ericanism. We must make the issue
so clear that every ballot box In'
the land may become a monument
to the loyalty of American manhood.
"The citizens of the country must
stand behind their president because
his policies are right. They will
stand behind him because his poli
cies are the policies which have
brought the nation a century ot
prosperous and honored peace. They
will stand behind him because they
(CONTINUED ON FAG I FOUR)
