S An article about another big en
% terprise of the rejuvenated health
T department which will interest cv
* cry householder in Tacoma appears
# 3n page 3.
WILSON IS WHOLE DEM SHOW
The Democratic One-Ring Circus
So. I.—Opening Up the Big Tent!
ASKS US
TO SAVE
DAYLIGHT
Tacoma may adopt the new
"daylight schedule,'' already In
use in other cities, by which clocks
are to be advanced one hour
during the summer months.
Will 11. 1111 nu.-i. chairman of the
public safely committee of the
Seattle city council, today sent
a copy of Seattle's new ordinance
adopting the schedule, and asked
Tacoma to take up a similar
measure.
Detroit and Cleveland have
adopted lhe schedule. Portland
Is using it In the city schools.
The new schedule would rut
down receipts of (lie light depart
ment, because Tacomans would
go to bed an hour earlier, but
It would likewise mean a direct
saving of light bills to the citi
zens.
Persons would arise an hour
earlier, business houses would
open earlier, and all official busi
ness would be advanced one hour.
More afternoon and evening
time would he permitted for rec
reation.
The council decided to post
pone action on tlie ordinance un
til next Wednesday, and request
ed that the public express Its
views regarding the "speeding
up" of city clocks.
Militia May
Be Sent Next
WASHINGTON, D. C, June 14.
— A call for state militia will be
the first step should the govern
ment need more troops on the
Mexican border, said a member of
the army general staff today.
Besides 10,000 coast artillery
men on tlie border there are only
1,500 available regulars.
Officials admitted tbe militia
department is getting supplies
•nd equipment in proper shape
throughout the country.
Envoy Named
TOKYO, June 14.—Airmaro|
Sain will be the new Japanese
ambassador tn the I'nited States,
succeeding VUcount Chlnda, who
goes to St. Jiynes, it was an
nounced today. I
| Talk o' the Times |
iireeiings, have you been
in swimming yet?
We must apologize for a poor
choice of words in this column
yesterday.
In telling about the handsome
young woman who walked down
Broadway in half sox Monday, we
referred to her as a "frail." thns
proudly demonstrating our fa
miliarity witli the advanced and
down-to-the-nilnute slang.
Our wife, who was the one that
reported tlie half sox episode.
now informs us that "frail" wus
a most unfortunate description.
We hereby make a correction;
that half-sox wren was not frail,
far from it.
The real press humorists
are those who write serious.
Iy about the conventions.
Upon the plain of Siilmar, just
as fast as they were able, a
mighty host of men and boys
raised up the Tower of llnbel. !
The lively Babel Boosters' club
the money had collected; the
mayor would make the grand ad
dress when it should he erected.
The crowd was going crazy
over this great civic center; the
STEPHEN DENBY
PURCHASES A
$209,000 NECKLAC
What Becomes
of It ?
qEthel Cartwright is forced
to become a spy.
4]Who took the diamonds?
qWho collected the insur
ance?
q Monty is in love with Nora.
q Whii helped sneak the
pearls through the customs.
YOU'LL FIND OUT—
gif yon begin reading "Un
der Cover" in next Monday's
Times.
q.lust start, that's all.
You'll be sure to finish,
git will be hard to wait for
the other five installment* 1.
q"Under Cover" is a great
story.
qiteail it next week in The
Times. In six installments,
beginning Monday.
The Tacoma Times
|25c A MONTH. THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TACOMA. 25c A MONTH. J
MM^^^^vvww^w ■ tojftottttto<otoltlotAtotAtooto>A^AlotAtotololotolXolo^olA^^otA^^AtotAtolotA^oto^otofoA o>Ato^o^A^oeAttAo^otoAotolA^A>^oeoeototo»oeotoioto^oeoeoAoeoAoeoeoWAoem *«>^o^^^^^^^^^^^*n«xw^^^^^^w^w^^^vv^vwwwwwmvmw#
VOL. XIII. XO. 152 TACOMA. WASH.. WKDNKMDAY, ,]VSK 14, 1916. lc A COPY
eleug^rs lo the top the Held of
bliss should enter.
With every 1 n-cent purchase
merchants gave away a ticket,
which you might present to Peter
when you reached ilie pearly
wicket.
The Tower stock was soiling at
eight hundred fifty-sevon. "I'll
buy a block," each plunder said,
"and thus get into hea>en."
Then suddenly there came a
crash, a shock, a cry, a holler,
aud every investor there had lost
his bottom dollar.
Nobody knew just what went
wrong, but all were in a paste.
Kach spoke his native lingo,
and the racket was Satanic.
The kalsomine committeemen,
the wreck of Babel vieiving, said,
"Boys, tlie bite we'd bitten off
was quite too big for chewing!''
All the Tacomn fans have
to tin now is lo learn to pro
nounce Mehlliaf.
AMOS
Here he is, Amos Qaito, the
little fellow with the punch.
He Isn't a vegetarian, and he
isn't particular how it's served —
rare, medium or well done.
There are 100 quadrillion mos
quitoes born every day, and not
one of them is drilling for the
Standard Oil Co.
Just. Imagine if they used pow
der how much of It would be used
every five minutes to dust their
noses.
You can't get Amos to wear a
sport shirt bul he likes to see
them on the fellows with the
brakeman hair cut.
The Adage that "A Oemo
• i.ii never resigns ami seldom
dies," certainly will huve to
lie revised. In light of Hie
l.lMer administration record.
TODAY\S < I.KAHINGB
Clearings $ I Hit.fin 7. VI
Balances ".2.502.5.1
Transactions 1.158,866.95
mm TAKEN III!
AROUSED
AT NAME
DF CHIEF
Wilson Walks
WASHINGTON, June 14.
—Fur the first time in his
tory, a president of the I'uiU
fd Slates man lied afoot
down Pennsylvania avenue
in a parade.
The oi'ra.'iion was Wash
ington's mammoth Flag Day
preparedness demons!ration.
The marine hand went
ihead of Wilson. The pres
ident set lhe pace.
Wilson wore a hlue coat,
white trousers and shoes
and a hoyish straw hat.
He carried a silk flag
over his shoulder. He broke
all records lor parade
speeds here.
The hand set the cadence
for tho president's long
strides at 14u steps a min
ute.
ST. I.OUS. June 14. —With
the program tut and dried. Hie
democratic convention was called
to order at IS:S6 this afternoon.
The hall was hot and stuffy.
Delegates mopped their faces
anil wielded fans.
Chairman McCoombs introduc
ed Martin 11. Glynn, former gov
ernor of New York, as keynoter,
who began bis address at 1
o'clock, after temporary officers
had been ratified.
Seventeen minutes later, wh°n
Glynn mentioned President Wil
son, a violent demonstration be
gan. New Jersey started a par
ade through the aisles and Illin
ois followed. The crowds sang
America.
MAYORS TO
BE GUESTS
Mayor Fawcett today sent let
ters lo mayors of every city in
Southwestern Washington, invit
ing ihein to be Taeoma's guests
and to participate in the Pre
paredness parade July 4.
"The city hopes to make the
parade ihat day the most spec
tacular and dramatic expression
of the new Americanism ever
known in the northwest, and 1
sincerely hope you may be pres
ent," said the letter.
FLASHES
m'BtIQITE, la.—lt is possible
woman suffrage may win out yet
In lowa as lhe result of the de
mands of members of the .Men's
Suffrage, league demanding a re
count of votes because of dis
crepancies discovered in vote re
turns.
NEW YORK—(lose friends of
Hughes said today that republi
can leaders are due for a bump- 1
ing if they think they are going
to handle the candidate as they
see fit.
PARIS—The fighting around
Verdun has again died down from
sheer exhaustion of the combat
ants.
ROME—One woman was killed
ami four civilians injured tn an
Austrian air raid Monday night
on Venice.
NEW YORK—Railroad aid
union officials who have been dis
cussing strike terms believe the
session will end today in a dead
lock.
EDMONDS, Wn.— Benjamin F.
I.nre, 93, is about to become a
groom. He is to marry Susie Wil
liams, 70, whom he has never
seen, but Is on her way to the
coast from Ohio.
It Is Elsie's
Weddine- Day
XI.SIX I'KIMJI'SON
MOW YORK, June 14— Miss
Elsie Ferguson, who is playing
with Sir Herbert Tree at lhe New
Amsterdam theater, is to bo mar
ried today to Mr. Thomas U.
Clarke, Jr., at tho St. Rents hotel.
TtH'ir engagement was an
nounced two months ago.
"Are you going to retire from
the stage alter-- well, after next
month's happy event?" Miss Fer
guson was asked.
"You mean my marring?? Am
I going to retiro from tin, sta^e
then. Oh, no, dccide.llv not,"
she replied. "I am looking for .1
play now, preferably a comedy,
and 1 expect to resume my career
again in tlie aiilumn.
"I said I would noi re'ire after
my marriage. I mean immediate
ly--but I shall not remain on 'lie
stage too long."
At the wedding Miss Carroll
Brown, of Portland, Me., will at
tend Miss Ferguson and Mr.
Frank 1.. Polk, of this city and
Washington, D. C., counsellor of
the slate department, will he Mr.
(Clarke's best man.
SUFFERS
INTERNAL
INJURY!
NEW YORK, June 14- Roose
velt today suffered a severe pain
in his side.
fijo frequently pressed his hand
against his side near his heart
while motoring from his home
with his son-in-law, Richard
Derby.
"The colonel said the pain was
in.-iiiim Mm nihil, hut he seemed
ill.
While going aboard tlie trans
port Kilputrlck to meet his son
Hermit, 150 soldiers saluted the
ctitimel. He later visited a phy
sician to have his throat sprayed.
Roosevelt's secretary, McQrath,
announced that the colonel had
strained a ligament while cough
ing.
Roosevelt will not return home
tonight, but will remain in New
York to have an X-ray examina
tion made.
TAKK FUKM.H POSITIONS
BERLIN, June 14.—(lermans
captured French i>osltions west
and south of Thtaumont farm.
They took 9:1 prisoners and 15
machine guns.
RUBBER STAMP-AUTO HORN
RILE ASSIGNED DELEGATES
(Copyright, r.nfi, hy Newspaper BnterprlM AMoclatlM.)
ST. LOUIS, Mo., June 14. —Suppose yoil wire tn start out and travel 1,000 miles of,
maybe, 2,000, in hot, moisi fly-paper weather. Suppose you were to leave your btuinesa
and happy home and risk your life on an overcrowded railroad <« 11« 1 your purse to the I'lill
man to. Suppose you were to fight your way at last into a broiling, bursting, brini<tontf
furnace sort of a town, where to gel food you had to struggle with alien waiter gentlemen
so lately introduced from Skandihoovia, Moldavia and adjacent parts that they didn't knoffl
Suppose you toiled and panted ami sweated and scrabbled through all the tortures ol
all the lost and wailing smils, merely to gel a chance to do a certain job, and then found out
it had all been done before your arrival. ,
You would cuss considerably, wouldn't ymi? And feel cheap and mean?
Not if you were a delegate to tliis convention, >ou wouldn't. Apparently, if you were
a delegate to this convention, you would undergo all these superfluous torments and rejoice
therein. You would he glad to have other gentlemen standing on your toes, make merry
for the elbows that penetrate your ribs, give thanks for noise, dirt, misery and hardships and
cheer yourself hoarse at the pleasant though! thai you had gone through all this for nothing.
Behold the convention delegate! This i- lhe life.
Old James S. I.cc of Sheridan Township, la., who has heen to every democratic na
tional convention since the one that nominated Horatio Seymour, just after the Black HawN
War. told nic today that I would never understand this convention business until i got it in
to my head that it is a kind of bug.
Real Convention Held Some Time Ago.
"Take il from inc." says J.re, "if I couldn't <^ct litis democratic yell nffen my d.rst
mid walk myself haij-dt'aJ looking for food, and get my ribs half slave in mound a Iwtcl
tabby about tune every four years, it's my opinion I'd blow ftp."
This must be the right dope to explain the thing, because there isn't any other. There
is no more reason for holding this national convention than there is for holding a national
convention of cassowaries in the land of I iinbuctx), Kvery stricken thing this convention
will do has already been done for it.
The real convention of the democratic party of this year was held long ago. It took
place in President Wilson's private room in lite White House, where a smooth-shaven gen
tleman of pleasing appearance assembled himself, dispensed with ihe opening prayer, and
proceeded t<> the selection of temporary and permanent chairmen. This done, he unani
mously nominated and elected the secretary, sergeant-at-ainis, doorkeeper. timekeeper,
doughkccper, weighing boss, room foreman and parliamentarian. After this came the roil
call for nominations for president and vice president. The nominating s|>eeches were
greeted with tremendous applause. The nomination of Woodrow Wilson having been
unanimous, amid boundless enthusiasm, the pleasant-faced gentleman sai.l, "J wonder if 1
have forgotten anything. I think not," and unanimously adjourned sine die and went to bed.
'Ilie i.(kx) delegates that arc BOW in sessian here -.till collect what fun is to he hatl
from railroading in kol weather, swatting flies, hurling into themselves masses of in
digestible luncheon counter food, and beticccn times voting as they arc told to confirm
the action of the real conicntian. ,
Senator Bill Stone arrives one day and brings the president's selections for chaplain,
temporary and permanent chairmen, and secretary of the pie board,
Senator Ollie James booms in the next day bearing the president's draft of lb.' plat
form.
Don't Relish Double Role of Stamp and Horn.
Senator Lewis follows and adds the president's choice for running male.
Senator Overman shows up with the president's lime table, showing when the c in
vention is to meet and when it is to adjourn.
Senator Hankhead is expected next with the president's instructions as to the proper
length of a delegate's hair and wbat he should eat for breakfast. It is understood that on
this subject Dr. Wilson takes strong grounds against jxirk chops and insists upon porridge.
The cost of holding the real democratic convention was $51, being about six hours if
the time of a gentleman who gets $-'05 a day for being president. The cost of holding the
show convention is $4,500,000. and is a punk spiel at that.
Still there are gents here thai kick about this. They say they aren't keen about coming
here just to lie a rubber stamp one minute and an automobile horn the next. They say they
know things their ownselves about foreign relations, keeping oul of war, the tieauties of the
Underwood tariff and the blessings of a democratic administration, and they know them ju-t
as well as if they bad been to Princeton and Worn a cute little hat with a flapping top to it.
And they object to tbe whole business.
Over these tit'// go presently a large, powerful paving roller, carefully directed by
lhe clean-shti''cu gentleman of pleasant appearance, and they will be heard of no more.
FOR HE IS IT; llli IS THE WHOLE THING; HE IS THE GOODS.
SAVES PEftUY; WINS $10 PRIZE
"A penny saved Is a penny
earned."
Dorothy Coye, pretty blue-eyed
Stadium high - school girl, has
adopted this slogan and she says
today It works out to perfection.
Dorothy has just finished with
her own hands a "Just too pretty
for anything" graduation gown.
The gown didn't cost $5, and
it wasn't marked down to $4.98,
either.
It cost just $4.99, no moTe, no
less.
"I left off one button, that
really wusn't needed," pays Dor
othy.
And the way the slogan work-
awwftwNlGHT EDITION nn|
I WEATHER i
I Tacoma: Fair tonight and Thurs 9
• day, continued warm. *
% Washington: Same. m
MmMMMmmmMMmmMMmmmm
BY CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
Ed out was that Miss Dorothy
Coye, 18, If you please, run away
with the $10 prize for the best
hand made dress, in com petition
with many other high school girls
who also are excellent makers of
gowns.
It's no cinch for a poor Insig
nificant man reporter to describe
that dress. But am way, it's made
of white organdie, whatever that
is, and Is fashioned of inch stuff
as dreams are made of.
Also Dorothy, with her own
high hi Ukiil fingers, ,>ut yards
and yards'of lace on • hand rolled
hem, whatever that means.
Now Dorothy, being a high
school graduate, is a very digni
fied sort of a little person, also
very particular, and not given at
all to exaggeration.
"The patern for my dress was
almost nil original, too," she said,
careful not to exaggerate.
"That and the lace, I think, aro
what did It."
She says she always makes
most of her dresses, and fiat sho
Intends to keep on making them
In the future.
If she makes them all at tho
rate ot that exactly $4 t.i organ
die gown. It Is rumored somebody
else someday Is bound to gat A
prlzo.
