HOME EDITION
$
t
TODAY'S PRICES
Vn rai bank not (fate bills) 1:S8
ir M ilf n dku 4" M'll n K11
N.clonalos bull ITS-lJ'-"' ij
. 1 1 rtimi ".Vj Bar silver Handv
Hrtrmrn quotations 6 copper
"- n Orini 1 .vir Uveltuc ealt
UKATHKK rORKCT.
TJ. P-o ami wet Texa, fair; New Mex
ico ah! rizM3. fair
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
anon; copt FUBcgsm EL PASOITDCAS. WEDNESDAY EVENING. JLXE 14. 1916.
DELIVERED ANYWHERE 0 CEXT3 A MONTH.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
MARSHALL WILL GET THE NOMINATION
JCj
XAB.il
a
1
rdun
000 M
ARCH
FOR PREPAREDNESS
One German Division Makes
12 Attempts To Take
French Position.
RUSSIANS CLOSE IN
ON CZERNOWITZ
Material Progress Reported
By Czar's Forces In
Austrian Drioe.
PARIS. France. June II The fight
ins around Verdun has once more
died down from sheer exhaustion
o' combatants.
An entire division, half of -whom
v ere Bavarians and half .Pomeranians
i as used by the Germans in II sepa
rate attempts Monday to storm the
French positions norti of Thiaumoat.
PBEPSBEIIS5 HO PROSPERITY
EMPHASIZED IN CLIMB'S SPEECI
Former New York Governor in Democratic Keynote
Speech Defends Wilson Administrations Neutrality
Program, Federal Reserve Act and Underwood
Tariff; Has Met Crucial Problems.
ST LOUIS, Mo.. June 14 With the
assertion that no president since
the Civil war has had as crucial
problems to solve, and no president has
displayed a grasp so sure, a states
manship more profund, than president
Wilson, Martin H. Glynn, former gover
nor of New York, opened the Demo
cratic national convention here today.
Declaring that "Americanism and
peace, preparedness and prosperity
are the issues upon which the Demo
cratic party stands, and the heart of
Democracy swells with pride taat is
more than a pride of part. as it hails
the man, who has asserted this Ameri
canism, assured this peace, advocated
this preparedness and produced this
prosperity," he predicted the reelection
of president Wilson.
Taking up our foreign relations that
has been called into emphatic promi
nence by the world-wide war
speaker declared that " e have
PEDEIT IS
COLOR BEAOERi
ETiRIE TO !EL PASO R01BS
M HUGHES AIR
Carries Flag at Head of ! Texas Progressive Delegate
tered this hall as Democrats.
deliberate as Americans.
the
en-
we shall
ROOSEVELT IS NOT SERIOUSLY ILL
lel 25. hiU I TTn. firmrhintr Rnpll PTlii Progressive leader Rajmond Robins,
of Thian- -ELdb UOUglUHg OpEU, dUU (Mho.as ch.tirnan of the national
Says It Is .Ridiculous
But Painful.
rrom this position the French flank- i The policy or neutrally, he argued is
.. . ... I as trulv American as the American
mg fire prevents the enemy from ad- j
lancing on Vans plateau.
No result having been attained by '
nightfall, fresh troops were brought '
tip and an attempt made to turn the
usition from the southwest. After a .
desnerate struggle a footing was ob
tj'ied in some of the trenhes on hill
io .l. half a mile west
mint and a mile east of Bras.
No effort was made toint roof fcfttus,
..dvantage yest&Cwav owing frnbaofr
to the losses op Monday which, ac
cruing to prisoners, were exception
alTv fcearv
A man belonging to the lsth Bava
rian infantrv. stated that his regl
atant had baaja held in reserve for a
TMfc offensive against the last forts
of Verdun, but that tt bad been thrown
into support the troops atrhriklng
Thiaumont and bad lost nearly a third
of Its effectives.
Russians Close In On Csernowitz.
Petrograd Russia June II Vit
I m'on In their advance upon Cier
lowitz the capital of Bukowma. the
Kussians have occupied the village of
Mi'atm TO miles northwest of the city,
the war office announced today.
In addition to their pre ious captures
'he Russians have taken 20 officers.
W men six guns and 10 machine
Russians Make Progress.
London, Kng . June 14 Reports from i roe.
the eastern rront indicate that the Rus
sians are making substantial progress
in their efforts to capture Czernowltz,
th- capital of Bukowina.
t Renter dispatch frum Petrograd
savs the Russians have interrupted the
Austrian communications bv cutting th
railwsy running north from Czerno
witz. Heavj fighting Is in progress in
the eastern, southwestern and northern
outskirts of the city.
Austrian Ittackn KnII.
Rome. Italy. June II (Via London)
Austrian attacks alone the line of the
Posina in the southern Tyrol made
after intensive artniery preparations
on Monday night, were everywhere re
pulsed by the Italians, the war office
announced today
Hag. For 2M years neutrality was a , tooad IVnnvi It aula avenue today in a
llt;.r Amenra mr lb a ic .
took "Washington and his successors
S ve?rs of endless negotiation to win
recognition of American neutralltv
And this M years of struggle wove
the doctrine of neutralltv so closely
into the warp and woof of our na
tional life that to tear it out now
would unravel the very threads of our
existence." By the records of history
Mr Glynn maintained that if Washing
ton and Lincoln were right president
Wilson Is right. The neutralltv that
president Wilson stands for today was
advocated by Washington, by Ham
ilton, b) Jefferson and by Lincoln.
Defend" President In I.usltahla Incident
By citing precedents Mr Glvnn justi
fied and defended the course of the
president in the Lusitania and similar
incidents. "In the face of this record."
he asked. 'Do Republicans realize
that when they arraign the policy of
the president of the United States to
day thej arraign the policy of Harrison,
of Blaine, of Lincoln and of Grant?
"In his policy of peaceful negotia
tions today the president of the United
States follows the example set htm by
the greatest preidepts which the Dem
cratlc party and the greatest presidents
(Continued on page I, CoL J.I
Preparedness Parade in
Washington.
Washington, D. C. June 14 Led by
president VI ilon carrving the tars and
stripes, nearlv 75.000 men, women, and
children of Washington marched up
broad IVmiv lv ania avenue today in i
preparedness arade arranged to em
Says He Will Support the
Democratic Nominee.
Dallas. Texas, June 14 In a state
ment issued since his return from the
Chicago Progressive convention, judge
F. M Etheridge, delegate to the Pro
gressive convention, announces that he
pitrvniruiirso u. -, m --j, - - , -r-
Phasize the national capitals demand I has renounced allegiance to the Pro-
for an adequate army and navy.
The president, attfred in white trous
( Continued on page "t column J)
New York, June 11 Reports today
that Theodore Itoosevelt was serious
ly ill, apparently proved astounded.
He has been experiencing coughing
spells receltty and in a statement re
garding an attack of pain suffered
vhile he was at a pier earlv in the
! day. awaiting the arrival of his son,
Kermit. from South America, the colo
nel explained that his coughing prob
ablv had strained a ligament. An
X-raj examination will be made prob
ably tonight.
"One year ago." the colonel said. "I
broke one sf ) ribs in the left side.
while riding The horse fell and threw
The coughing spells probably
! strained a ligament Tt is ridiculous.
but painful So like ktr-g Gog, I arch
my neck and walk lightly."
The former president held a politi
cal conference at his hotel with two
roni ention. and Harold L I K
tional .onimittema of Illituiia.
colonel would not talk polities.
na-
The j
Our Flag
"To every true American the Flag
is the symbol of the Nation's power,
the Emblem of Freedom, in its truest,
best sense. It is not extravagant to
say that to all lovers of the conntry
it signifies government resting on the
consent of the governed; liberty rega
lated by law; the protection of the
weak against the strong; security
against the exercise of arbitrary
power, and absolute safety for free
institutions against foreign aggression."
gresslve party and will support the Na
tional Democratic ticket. Judge Eth
eridge savs he will support the nomi
nee of the Democratic partv as against
Charles K. Hughes.
Progressive Party Disintegrated.
Judge Etheridge was Progressive
candidate for governocof Texas in 1911.
He -was a member of the platform com
mittee at Chicago. In his statement he
says, "since the Progressive sarty had
I disintegrated the Progressives find
tnemselves witnout a party. He nao
decided to support the Democrats, he
continued, because many of the Pro
gressive princibles had been inculcated
into the Democratic party and because
he could not subscribe to the "stand
patism" of the Republicans.
"I seriously opposed the nomination
of Mr Hughes." continued iudse Ether
idge. because no amount of service
Hit
City Leads U. 5. In Per-
centage of Marchers Com
pared To Population.
WOMEN MARCH
AND WAVE COLORS
II I
CHARGED WITH THEFT OF
noGj bl pso auA appeals.
Austin, Texas. June II The case
or Mateo De Leon, who was convicted
and sentenced in the 34th district court
o El Paso for the theft of a hog.
was submitted today in tbe court of
criminal appeal.
Army Bands Play Stirring
Music As Thousands Of
Marchers Pass.
I
X a ea of red. white and blue color.
thousands of EI Pasoans marched
in the reoaredneu parade Wednes
day morning It was the greatest
patriotic parade El Paso has ever bad. i
For more than an hour civilian marchers
Doared throusrh the downtown streets
he could render, if he was estimated. I .,-vi.,. i, nAiAn.i mi.m .huiu.
-.. .. ...- .. .1 !,- L 1,4a I "J& " M.W,1. ..VSV.O. MW ,
inflicted by creating in the public mind
a distrust of the ultimate Judicial tri
bunal of this country We may soon
behold the spectacle of opinions of for
mer justice Hughes being circulated as
campaign literature."
President Sends Word He
Wishes Marshall and the
Opposition Melts.
12,000 PRESENT -IN
THE COLISEUM
Bryan Is Given an Ovation
When He Enters the
Convention Hall.
COLISEUM. St Lools. Mo, Jane 1C
Indications this afternoon are
that vice nreablent u.k-i, ...
o " . - " i nr,u
for the fla and being cheered IB torn j " renominated without oppoetOoa in
by the crowds which lined the side- j ,ne Democratic ccnveaUoa.
walks, filled the windows of offices and j Secretary of war Baiter, who is
store buildings and watched the parade 1 president Wilson s representative in
ffora automobiles parked tn the street the convention, has let it be knonn
Intersections. , unmistakably that the president wishes
"" wi "vn i.... o u" jr. JtarsbeU to h
WHEN STATUE OF LIBERTY IS LIGHTED,
THOUSANDS OF BIRDS WILL BEAT THEIR
LIVES OUT UNLESS PERCHES PROVIDED
in the narade. according to estimates of
array officers. This makes El Paso lead
the United states in tne percentage 01
marchers to population as the Saa rep-
resented one-fifth of her American
population. It was estimated. 1
Kl Tsu for Preparedness.
El Paso is for preparedness. After the I
parade Wflnnaynay morning- there was
aqHK et tne sentiment or ei rasa
by
W:
Ammunition Factory Wor
Tarns Girls9 Hair Yellow
London Eng. Jun 14 '"Oktaa lies'
has be ome the popular terra for gtrJ
munition workers whose skin &sd bafr
becomes ellow from working- over
fumes In certain shell factories of Eng
land. Their patriotism is so stroai?
that the do not hesitate to disftfram
themelr for the sake of the men
behind the Runs "Canaries" are alio
better paid than the girls who do not
run the same risks.
GERMANS CLAIM RUSSIAN
ATTACKS ARE REFULSED
Berlin Germany. June 14. The Rus
sian offensive which has been directed
against the southern portion of the
eastern front, broke out vesterdav
against field marshal von Hindenburg's
forces at a point about 75 miles i orth.
of Pinsk
The Russians made several .attacks
with masses of infantry. The war of
fice announcement of today savs they
were repulsed with heavy losses.
ISIII.MSTO'V.. D. C, June 14.
In the midst of polities and pro
posed legislation for dread-
naughts and preparedness generally,
the rancTma of the Inlted States this
week took time to consider lives of
birds. A ew lork neivspaper Is rais
ing a fund of ?."0,0O0 to Illuminate the
stntne of Liberty Enlightening the
World. In ew lork harbor, which hai
stood dark for many -years. Congress
agreed to maintain the Illuminating
system after It was onbe installed.
f.llbert Pearson, of evv York, sec
retary of the ludubon societies, came
down to Washington nnd told represen
tatives and senato-s that the Illumina
tion of the statue would mean the death
of tens of thousands of of birds which
would batter themselves lifeless agaln-t
the lights. He suggested the bnlldlng
of perches on which the birds conld
Hsbt.
Congressmen took this suggestion
serionsly. since Mr. Pearson told thera
It meant the saving of lives of many
thousands of birds each year, and it Is
highly probable that when the wording
for the statute on lighting the statue
Is completed. It will contain a provis-
BMjority of the -social and fraternal or
ganizations marched. Including many
women members and children. The
parade started moving at 9.15 at Mon
tana and Lee streets and swung into Pi
oneer plaza at S.JO witn tne Municipal
band playing "The Stars and Stripes
ion for the building of perches on which ,wd which bad sathered in the open
t Aafha,-a.I .ra(A. .--- 1 -VMW . -
.J . . "" i plaza for the pageant of patriotism,
north and south, eac year, can rest. I "
lt Is not that birds smash themselves
against the llchts by accident." said
3ir. l-eason. -nui in some peculiar way i c.j k- vj. i vt.- i.- .u
they are attracted by the glaring llgbts-l ... , ..- .,...l .. J
renominated
acclamation, if possible.
Anona nd ew Mexico Cimuiitteemei,
Interest during the afternoon cn
tered in the naming of commilte--The
i'emocrutic committee on reso
lutions f'om Arizona. New Mex eo an l
are- -
Arizona M D Douefcart. Nw
toward preparedness for peace. Prac- siexico. X c Frenger. Texas. Jamea
iiosiip axyPai BsVsnnaa ni-va in in t-irv ...
was represented in the line of march, a j " 1"erU8"-
lie
and continue to beat themselves against
the glass until they fall dead of ex
haustion, unless something is provided
upon which they can rest. In some
uropean eountr.es perches are pro
vided for this pnrpoe.
it Mr. Pearson's suggestion. the
General Federation of W omen's clubs,
meeting tn Vfw 1 ork, undertook the
raising of a fnnd for the perches.
Perfect Setting.
The -setting for the parade was per
fect. Everv business house In the city
American flags and the resulting pic
tare was a stirring one. This was
especiallv true as the women marchers
passed along the flag banked streets,
their white dresses and red bouquets
making a sharp contrast as the patriotic
women of the city marched in perfect
alignment and waved their flags in an
(Contlnned on Page :. Column 1.)
SCENES IN THURSDAY'S BIG EL PASO PREPAREDNESS PARADE
CANADIAN TROOPS RETAKE
POSITION BRITISH LOST
London Eng . June 14 Canadian i
troops, in what the British official I
statement describes as a gallant and i
successful assault southeast of Zil- '
lebeke, recaptured a former British po
sition over a front of more than Ii4j0
vards. Notwithstanding a severe shell
mg the Canadians retain the sroond
gained, which is being consolidated.
INDICATIONS POINT TO GOOD
GRAIN CROPS IN GERMANY
Berlin Germany. June 14 Every
thing indicates that Germany will have
unusually good grain crops this year.
From all parts of the country, the re
ports are most satisfactory. The win
ter was mild, and thus far the spring
weather has been well-nigh ideal.
The rainfall has continued satisfac
tory in nearly all parts of the country:
hence gram and m adow grass have
been making fine progress. Livestock
has been turned out to grans, and thus
fContlnned in l"nge , Column L
. . , I'holutr..! hs hi Si. r i.i 'til -uHl P0 Strct.
t-iose-np pictures of El Paso s preparedness parade In center circle mayor Tom Lea is shown marching at the head of the parade with his two sons, Tom jr and Joe
In the upper right hand picture mayor Lea, Gen. George Bell, grand marshal John M. Wyatt and aides are shown reviewing the parade from the city ball reviewing stand. In the upper bight hand
picture commander Koenig, of the United Spanish War Veterans, is shown leading his sectian with Rudolph Haderer, son of Stephen Haderer, dressed as "Uncle Sim." In the lower left hand picture is
shown El Paso's patriotic Chinese boys marchiDg. In the lower right hand picture is shown "The Spirit of 1916," a fife and drum corps composed of Capt F. E. Tusten, Norman Walker and Norman
Walker, jr.
Convention Opens.
With the keynote of "American -rsm,
and peace, preparedness and
prosperity," the Democratic national
convention began its first session
shortly after noon today with not a.
single element in sight to disturb the
harmonious renomination of president
Wilson and vice president Marshall.
Other vice presidential booms were not
in evidence
When national chairman McCombs
called the convention to order, i:;M0
delegates, alternates and spectators
packed the big Coliseum to the roof
j When W J Brvan entered he was
i received with prolonged cheers.
.Met ombs Orrns Convention.
Chairman McCombs took the chai
and called the convention to order.
At 11! 32 p. m.. Louis Colombo, of De
troit. led one stanza of " -.merica" an.;
followed with "Star Spangled Banner "
everyone Jo.ning
Members of the national committee
members of pr-sid.-nt Wilson s cabine
and party leaders from all over the
country had places on the platform
"Ptmster niMtalllAn. Ae ur..wt- .
Jackson. Jefferson and Cleveland
looked down upon delegates from the
decorations, which consisted uniformre
of nothing but the XmerUan flag The
only picture of president Wilson In the
hall hung in front of the speakc r z desk
inscribed "America First."
Vice Presidential Dooms Wilt.
Vice presidential booms wilted by
president Wilson's direct word that he
desired the renomination of vice pres
ident Marshall were brought to th.
convention hall, but only as favorite
sons compliments.
When natonal chairman McCombs
had called the con v en ton to order, the
next business was the reading of the
call by secretary J Bruce Kramer
Wilson in Close Touch.
Former gov ernor Glv nn, of New Tork
was next with the keynote speech.
Down under the speaker's stand di
rect telephone and telegraph wires to
the white bouse carried momentary re
port of the proceedings in the halL
All prospect of a fight in the con
vention had gone glimmering oversigh'
with Wm. J Bryan's announcement
that he did not propose to press certain
planks before the resolutions commit te
and that he would make campaign
speeches for the Democratic nominee
Glynn bounds Keynote.
"We have entered this hall as Demo
crats, let us deliberate as Americans,
declared Mr Glynn in sounding the
ekevnote
' It is the business of the convention,
representing- eTerv section of the United
States, speaking for everv racial strain
in merica. to send forth a message to
all the world that will leave no room
for douit."
Rev tewing president " ilson's con
duct of foreign affairs, he declared
the president had stood with Wash
ington Adams and Grant who had
preserved peace with honor.
re loit In ssembllnc.
t 11 :0 orlock 40 minutes before
time for the convention to be called to
order there were not more than -0
delegates on the floor, onlv a few of
ficials on the platform, and the gal
leries were filling slowlv
The delegates and alternates had
seats on the main floor, arranged like
a huse oblong wedge, with the broad
side toward the platform Their seats
were Jammed together, arrangements
for both delegates and spectators be
ing much more congested than at either
convention in Chicago.
W Ilson's Picture.
The onlv picture of president Wilson
t Continued on Page 3. Column 5.)
Keep Cool, Practice Self Control and You Are Prepared For Anything
