THE BAE1B DAILY TB
VOL. XX NO. 77.
BARRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE U, 1916.
PRICE, ONE
CENT.
5
7
ALL WILSON
AT CONVENTION
IN ST. LOUIS
Not Only Will He Be Re
nominated as Democratic
Candidate for President,
but He Will Dictate the
Choice for Vice-President,
Which Will Be for Mar
shall
McCOMBS BERATES
THE REPUBLICANS
'swag.' For the sake of victory, many of
these men, essentially opposite in prin
ciple, have been willing to become friends
with false mask. The result is inevit
able, 'divided they fall." We ore proud
in the -thought that 'united we stand.'
We welcome the pent up Americanism of
the real Progressives individually to our
ranks; offering them a haven in a prin
ciple. Their leader has abandoned them
with crass cruelty.
"The gentleman from Oyster Hay in a
recent letter to Chicago quotes Abraham
Lincoln as saying 'May not all, having a
common interest, reunite in a common
effort to save our common country!' La
dies and gentlemen, I beg to call your at
tention to the word reunite. The words
'save the country have been the disguise
of the opposition for years. There may
be a political war to-day in this country,
but that war only exists between fac
tions. Why did the gentleman quote the
words of Lincoln, in the. hope of reunit
ing Americans? No, Americans are re
united as never before. He meant by re
uniting that two factions of his party
should reunite. These two factions, or
parts. .of them, hoped to join for self-
aggrandizement, leaders of these two fac
tions factions powerless as entities
hoped to join hands, however strained
and however divided on irreconciliable
principles, for the Jnsidious purpose of
overthrowing a third entity, which lor
the past four years stood united in a
common cause: whose sniooietn is one
VERMONT MASONS
.NUMBER 14,241
Grind lodge Convocation, Was Held In
Burlington To-day, the Knight
Templar Session Yesterday.
Burlington, June H. The 123d an.
nual convocation of the grand lodge of
Master Masons of Vermont was held
hero to day. An address ws given by
the retiring grand commander, C. H.
n. i; - i ,.
tiling vi .uuiiiiigwm. mere were re
ported to be lOfl-lodges, with member.
ship of 14.241. There was a not gain of
286; died during the year, 285; new Ma
sons, Ml.
At the meeting' of the Knights Tem
plar yesterday the following officers were
elected! Frank B. Putnam of Brattle
boro, great commander: Elrov B. Whit-
aker of Barre, deputy g,ud commander;
Frederick H. Babbitt of Bellows Falls,
grand generalissimo; William II. Ridley
oi onsioi, grana captain general; Wil
liam H. Herrick of Montpelier, grand se
nior warden; Major C. Houghton of Brat,
tleboro, grand junior ward-a: Alfred G
Hough of Brownsville, grand , prelate;
Frank Adams of Bellows Falls, grand
Washington, D. C, June 14. President Measurer; Henry H. Ros of Burlington,
EACH MARCHER
CARRIED FLAG
Pres. Wilson Walked at the
Head of Preparedness Pa
rade in Washington
NEARLY 75,000 WERE
IN DEMONSTRATION
After Marching to Review'
' ing Stand, the President
Watched the Others
GRAVEL SLIDE
KILLED YOUTH
Two Companions at Work
Were Also Partially
Covered
MARK THOMPSON
WAS THE VICTIM
Wilson, several cabinet members, con
gressmen, government officials and near
ly 75,000 residents of the national eapt-
' sniooiein m . , n.rtu.,ni,tl , (, ,,
for all and all for one; equal rights nd ,. ' .' , .
continue well
its close the
Tn n 1 1 1 vi n- Tn r- vo f 1 f!nn
Jill vaiiiiiis ivuiuu aiib vu" . 11 ' ... ,i.-. -.v.:- "" img uav i
- TT ., IPleges to none; whose chief ,fi w peoW t
VentlOn tO Order, He Said Jenet of, f,th that 19 Amer' into the afternoon, and at i
the Poor Old Elephant and "Thi9 .u crucial hour in the history
1 of the world. It is an hour when every
the Poor Old MoOSe Are man should take stock of himself and his
i principles, mis is an nour wnen every-
Dead, and "Long Live the
American Eagle" Great
Harmony at Outset
general recorder; Dtis X Kellon ol St.
Albans, grand standard bearer: George
B. Wheeler of Bellows Falls, grand sword
bearer; Arthur V, t arnsworth of Rut
land, grand warderj and Fred W. Briggs
oi uranuon. grana captain ot the guard.
George F. Root frf Newport was ap-
president will make an addresa on pointed grand inspector, which corre
"America First." sponda to grand lecturer In the grand
No regular military organizations lodge. Mr. Briggs js the new addition
were permitted to march because Sccre- to the list of grand officers. Edward
taries Baker arid Daniels thought it I Bate of Bennington retires as grand
one should see whether in his inner con-l ,. . . , ... - f. , commander.
ie ideals of I ... r . 4 , . . c aiw
worked for sound and powerful prepared
ness. It haa maintained a solemn, calm
dignity in the . face of circumstances i
St. Louis, June 14. Wilson and Mar
shall, and victory in November, was the
program of the delegates who crowded
into the Coliseum to-day for the opening which might have drawn it into the vor
: t ii. 4!. t-: i tex of a world destruction. Though vil
... Milled by self-seekers, it has maintained
vention. According to the party leaders, friendiy relations throughout the world;
there will be no irietton over uie party s it has been true to the spirit of America;
declaration of principles, and only the it has been true to the great principles of
i e ii,. i4 I Washington, Jefferson, Madison and
pill aneuiUH y u lew iJiaimo ill mip uiai.- , , , - . . .
. . . 1 , Jackson; it has allowed no selfish inter
torm remains to tie agreed upon. est to blind jt to the fundamentals 6f its
The convention promises to be the faith and the country has found that its
most harmonious in the history of the confidence has been well bestowed
nartv. The manao-ers of the nartv hone '"The Democratic party has proven it
J' v O "
sciousness ne squares wnn me weais m i,- or .. . nilrtVl,,at. All St. Aldemar Commandery. No. ll. of
1 7Tfl m A-.na rV iliimatln I I 1 1 . ... . .. . .
,,.u, a..u .... mi ,.c..TO. . fch marchers, including the president, Hrre had its juriJictmn enlarged to in
episoae. wnen tnu country reso.ute.y American flars. After walking elude several towns eastward ; Brook-
r"T p 4 . - f over the route at the head of the parade, field, thclsea, Corinth. Orange, Washing
. .. ... . bile ill i nuirri u i a n ' iv iiin vhm.-t7 ' ' 11 v ii ' i . - ...
scandalous and vicious attacKs, nag main- '. . ,,,,.
. . , ... , , i i viewing stand at the White House ana
tsined this grent American ideal. Y lule I . it ,
for peace, it haa steadily and surely
reviewed the other marchers.
CANADIANS WIN
NEW LAURELS
The Grand Council of Royal and Se
lected Masters of Vermont held their
meeting at 7:30 in the evening, Dana S.
Brownell, grand master. The following
officers were elected: Frederick H. Bab
bitt of Bellows Falls, grand master;
Deans .S. Bliss of Middleburv. demitv
BEFORE YPRES kra mtr; Harley T. Seavr of Bar
ton, principal condmjtor of work! I bane
H. Heat on of Montpelier, grand treas
urer; Henry H. Rosa of Burlington.
gTand secretary; Henry L. Ballou of
Chester, grand captain of tlie guard;
Aaron H.' Grout of ewport, grand con
ductor.
He Died Shortly After Being
Taken Out of the
Great Mass
Burlington, June 14. Mark Thompson,
aged 18 years, of bheJburne talis, waa
buried in a slide of a gravel pit near
Hlielburne Falls to-day. Both his legs
were broken and he died shortly after
being dug out by his two companions,
both of whom were partially buried in
the slide. The men were loading a wag
on with gravel at the time of the accident.
BARRE TEACHERS'
LIST COMPLETED
BAD DAY FOR BOY BIKERS.
In "Gallant and Successful Assault" They
Recaptured More Thin 1,500 Yards
of Positions and the Germans
Suffered Heavily.
London, June 14. The Canadian troops
in the region of Ypres have made a not
able gain over the Germans, retaking
from tbem southeast of Zillebeke, in a
NEW SHOOTING RECORD
coif a ymri t- nf rri rfirta a TV a rf V nf
41,. n . w iT.n - I' 'J v "'i " - f -y
l" rumen nio iimriutB uj -.4,4i,,- ,U 1 v. nirts n turfnrm
..amtuirniara t t .no ivprv . i t rinuinvi . ...... . 1 . .
v w., m..,.j . . o o .nee. It has nroven that weals can M "m ant and successful assault more
speeches ax oaa moments ana uie . , , , - Ut, i son ,-.r.l. f f,m. n.i.i.i,
geant-at-arms ana n.s aasistams are pre- ..Ladi and centemprl 0f this conven- tions which the Germans cantured re- ne record ior vn
pared to handle big crowds. In con- tion, thf eleJ)h;nt iB dead, the U is centlv. The regained ground wa, held ffwnd. w,tn a run of 1W without a
despite a vigorous shelling by the Ger
mans. The Germans suffered heavy cas
ualties in the fighting,
Made By Dr. C. H. Burr at Trap Tourna
ment in Montpelier.
Establishing a new ' record for the
trast to wie Kepumican convention wnen dead jng Hve the American eagle."
iiierc wcie mvn? kiirii dwic vi uhiiwi
buttons announcing favorit sons as can- Former Gov. Glynn Praises Wilson.
didatea for president, there was but one I Martin H. Glynn, former governor of
button carrying the likeness of Wilson. INew xork, who was chosen as temporary
Delegates not wearing the Wilson button chairman, addressed the convention. lie
wore an emblem indicating their vice- declared that "Americanism and peace.
president favorites, Thomas R. Marshall preparedness and prosperity are the is-
of Indiana, Roger C. Sullivan of Illinois,
Gov. Major of Missouri and Gov. .More
head of Nebraska. President Wilson has
indicated that his preference is for Mar
shall and there is not the slightest doubt
that his wish will be gratified.
At 11:30 there were not more than a
dozen delegates on the floor and less than
100 spectators in the seats. The galleries
were filling slowly, and only a few offi
cials were on the platform. There waa
little excitement and the bands that
marched with the delegations furnished
the onlv amusement. A few minutes lat
er the crowds began increasing
Only the picture of the president was
On the speaker s stand witn tne inscrip
tion. "America First."
At 11:45 the official band began the
opening concert, accompanying a quartet
which sang new songs about America.
and which brought the first applause or
the day. The Texas delegation tossed
souvenir bales of cotton from the gal
leries. Because of the heat under the
glaring skylight, many of the delegates
soon removed their coats. Senator Ollie
James was loudly cheered as he entered
the hall.
The convention w& called to order
shortly after 12:30 o'clock and then
everyone joined in singing the "Star
Spsngled Banner." Prayer was offered by
Rev. W. Lee.
In calling the convention to order,
Chairman William F. MeCombs of the
Democratic national committee spoke as
follows:
"We are in an atmosphere of victory.
We have no feeling of guess, but a spirit
of certainty. We meet to celebrate the
marvelous achievements of the Demo
cratic party since it came Into power and
to place a milestone upon the path of its
future success.
"Over 2,000 years ago, an old lay re
lated the fable of the frog who wxnted
to grow-to the eiie of an elephant. Such
was the ambition of his aoul that his
body swelled to a marvelous proportion.
Indeed, .Ksop went so far as to predict
that the frog, upon reaching the size of
the elephant, would burst. I commend
to vour notice the wisdom of .Ksop. It
took over 2,000 years for his prophecy to
ome true. Only laat week the frg
rlephant or the elephant-frog explod
ed. The Republican party for years suc
cded in deceiving the country. Now it
is siiiTes.-'fully deceiving itself. In its
platform it offers pulihritudinous prom
jbut with vacuous intent. It prom
ises the country in the main, what the
Democratic party has already done or is
in the proce of doing, saving always,
the bogus god. "protection." Jt bas
rloaked its iniquity with a judicial robe
lut the cloien hoof of special interest
ft ill protrudes.
"The b-ard of directors h sat in Cbi
rago and again resolved that they are te
rountry. They have adopted the doctrine
of foreordination and predestination, but
hae made it applicable only to them
nelve. The ret of the people are their
wards for profit.
"Ambition ia a nWa attribute but
when it is adulterated with gred. a
rataclystn is inevitable. We have re
cently witnesed the painful sjwtarle of
two great A merino parties in Chicago
putting self in plar of ideal. !f glori
t mt Km in place of national honor. Re
publicanism and Progreivim. railed,
in place of our only "ism" American-
Urn.
"We have witneed the drab r-trle
sues upon which the Democratic party
stands, and the heart of Democracy
swells with pride of party as it hails the
The Canadians' victory is thus de
scribed n the official report:
At 1:30 in the morning the Canadian
troops made a gallant and successful as
sault southeast of Zillebeke. Their ob
jective was our old position in that
neighborhood, all of which was captured
on the front attacked, extending from the
man who nas asserted thi Americanism, I ,... : f d ,.. . . .
...... , , , southern portion ot ranctuary wood to a
advocated this preparedness and produced
this prosperity.
Mr. Glynn concluded his speech with
more praise for llson, saying:
"He has been wise with a wisdom that
is steeped in the traditions of his coun
try, with a wisdom tVt haa been dis
ciplined by training and broadened by
instruction.
"He has been firm with the firmness
that proceeds from deep conviction, with
the firmness that is grounded in a duty
well denned.
point about 1,000 yards north of hill 60,
a total front of over 1.500 yards.
"In the course of the assault heavy
losses were inflicted on the enemy, and
three officers and 123 men were taken
prisoner. '
Our troops were subjected to severe
shelling for several hours after gaining
the position but were well supported by
our artillery and retain the ground
gained, which i being consolidated,
miss, Dr. C. H. Burr of the Montpelier
Gun club was high average gun with a
score of 1EK out of a possible 200 vester-
day, the opening day of the annual tour
nament of the Vermont State Trspshoot-
ing association. Dr. Burr was awarded
the silver pitcher donated by Mayor J.
M. Bout well of Montpelier aa a special
trophy. F. E. Aiiams.if Barre won sec
ond honors with si score of 1S6 and H. M.
Loudon of Burlington was third with 184.
In the special event for ladies, Mrs.
Rosemary Harmon of Montpelier won
first honors with high average.
In the five-men team competition, the
Montpelier Gun club five won with a
score of 4",!) out of 500 targets. Burling
ton wns second with 3D8 and Randolph
third with 3ilfl. There were 33 members
of the association and professionals in
attendance.
Youths Were Struck By Automobiles in
Montpelier. ,
Carlo and John Maroni, two Montpelier
youths, were thrown from their bicycles
yesterday afternoon on Berlin street near
Granite street by being struck by an au
tomobile driven by James Goodwin of
Harre. Neither of the boys was seriously
injured, although the younger was par
tially unconscious for a few moments
and the other suffered a light cut in h
forehead. The automobile was going to
Montpelier from Barre and several wi
nesses of the accident were not inclined
to fasten anv blame upon the motorist.
Mr. Goodwin did not stop after strikin
the boys but hurried downtown, quickly
secured three physicians and made with
all speed back to the scene of the acei
dent. Kxaminations made by the doctors
tailed to bring to light any serious in
juries. , .
Two other boys were thrown from
their wheels bv colliding with automo
biles during the day, one t the corner
of Main and State streeta and the other
in front of the federal building. Neither
suffered any injury.
BIG K. OF C. GATHERING
Heavy bombardments by the enemv have
iMnli..i1 .1 . . -I 4 k. J... 4 L:-1. - . . .
w h.. Wn ntwt vith tfc. Mi ,v' uu ""J,J V"C.""T' l" ."" olu unerai OI
which believes and trusts that truth u mi it. v , .
i wtruipia vi mu jiuvtue inianiry xo
patience that can endure and wait, watch
MONTPELIER
FRENCH CONTINUE
SMALL ADVANCE
Mrs. Dora M. Driscoll Was
Held at Her Late Home.
Funeral services for Mrs. Dora Dris
coll, whose death occurred Saturday,
were held at 2 o'clock yesterday after
noon at her late home on upper Terrace
street, Rev. William Shaw officiating.
The Canital Citv cranire attenrloil the
NEAR SOISSONS "8 of the services
at the grave, interment being in Green
.7' i. v:-4 . j rrrt.A Small r..rm.n p.t t... Mount cemetery. The bearer, were Frank
vnu ni-a iiiBiurv oi mrw urs "7 1 1 Vwlv WilL-H rVtltnn .. V.ll,,
4 V ... , A 1. . , 1 1 .1 ... r nf . . k . .. I . ' 4
iiriuco w niivim, mm uie nmui.r,i ui i noi uiutc xvcyui i naiu in xnc Isnd Kntvtr Thnwhffr
to-morrow rea meir nations story, Vivom Kriti.. bmi
...l. 4: L.,i l. ii-j -ii i- - e"
. . ' - ' - I T", .- . . "I h. . 1 1 ..' I .. . k . . . lit, . .AH
4: i .t i, 1 1 i-iisuners. 1 uii vi .in.i nm,- evh
r,,v.uu .-.it lUr ,rr0 ...... ... rcn- - - of Mr. and Mrs. Edward E. Stone waa
dered their impartial verdict one name Puns, June 14. A violent artillery en- km ....... n, . 1 it.
will shine in golden splendor upon the gagement took place laat night in the from houSe, 28 Northfield Street, Rev.
and pray, for the certain vindication of
justice, humanity and right.
"He haa been patriotic with a patriot
ism that has never wavered, a patriotism
that is as pure and strong as the faith
that moved the fathers when they made
our country free.
Is Expected at Montpelier Sunday for the
Third Degree Work.
Between 300 and 400 members of th
Knights of Columbus are expected in
Montpelier Sunday to attend the exem
plification of the "third degree to the
worked on a class of about 45 candidate
in the club rooms of the Montpelier or
der. . .
The degree work will be held at 7:30
o clock in the evening and will be in
charge of Hon. George H. Boivin of Que
bee, a member of (anadian Parliament,
State Deputy S. M. Driscoll of St. Alban
and other officers sre expected to attend
the meeting. Following the degree work
a luncheon will be held at the Pavilion
hotel and informal talks will be given by
some of the state officers. Visiting
knights are requested to gather Rt the
Montpelier lodge rooms at 4 o clock to
attend benediction at St. Augustine's
church.
page that is blackened with the tale of vicinity of Vaux on the Verdun front.
Pliimnp'a war nnp name will renreent. I Th.r vu nn Infanfrv aftiin kfr,-A I'm.. I
: :r -jtL" : ; : """"" ' .z ween
i.ie vr.uninn 01 American principles over nun. omnai Bra.iemenis said, ine rrennn
the hosts of darkness and of death. carried a small German post near Veni
"That name will be the name of the Nel, east of Soisaons. A raid by French
great president who has made Democracy troops at Songern in the Vosges result
proud that he is a Democrat, and made led in the capture of a number of tier
Americans proud that he is an American. I mans.
It will be the name of the statesman
who lias kept his country true to its
faith in a time that tried men's souls;
the name of the student and the scholar
who has championed the cause of Amer
ican freedom wherever he lound it on-
preyed; the name of the patriot who Russians Capture Town to the Northwest
haa implanted his country a flag on the They Have Also Started an Often-
highest peak to which humanity has yet .;Ve Aainst Von Hidenhurc 71
I. A 1 . .1.-4 : - 1 1L. 4 1. I
a!.plt-u; name tnni iv.nru i.ifi iur 11
of progress to victory once and will carry
it to victory again, the name of Wood-1 Fetmgrad, via London. June 14. Rus-
row llson, president and president tolsians have occupied Sniatyn. a village 20
ARE SURROUNDING
CZERNOWITZ CITY
LITTLE FARMING .IN BARRE.
Asressors Find Agricultural Activities
Very Restricted.
Returns completed bv the assessors in
dicate that the maple sugar crop within
the city limits of Barre was somewhat
larger this year than in 1913, although
to be sure, the harvest of the saccharine
product looks small when compared with
the returns from rural towns. The num
ber of cows, horses, swine, etc., has not
changed materially from last vear. Ap
parently there has been a shrinkage in
the sheep production, as there are only
three registered on the books. It is said
that the assessors got several goats about
town, but the returns are not indicated
in the records. Three farms, the Allen
and Bailey farms on the west hill and
the Byron Jackson farm in the north end
account for most of the data given be
low. Maple trees available and not tapped,
1.3IH); maple trees tapped, 300; pounds of
maple sugar made. 3m; gallons of maple
syrup made, 30; number of horses in the
citv. 448; number of milch cows. 140:
dance Friday evening in the city hall neat stock. 4." heads; oxen, none: swine.
auditorium, the graduating cla-s of the U.i; heep, 3; acres of tillage land, 360;
high school to he the giiesw 01 me assocl- acres of pasture land. 63fl; acres of or
ation.
William Shaw officiating. Burial was in
Mount cemetery
Stephen Taylor of Los Angeles, Cal.,
who enlisted in Co. F, Second Vermont
regiment, from Montpelier at the out
break of the Civil war, arrived in the
city yesterday for a visit with friendn.
It is his first visit in the Et for about
l. years.
The Washington County Grammar
School Alumni asoeiation will hold a
be."
VERM0NTERS AT ST. LOUIS.
Committee Assignments Made Kennedy,
National Committeeman.
St. Louis, .lime 14. The Vermont del
egation to the Democratic national con
vention haa elected the following list of
committers: (mmitt on creden
tial. Jeremiah C. Durick of Fair Haven;
committer on permanent organization.
Harry C. Shiirtleff of Mntpelier; com
mittee on rule. Orlo E. Luce of Stow;
committe on platform. Park H. Pollard
of Proctorsville; committee to notify
president; F. H.- Duffy of Rutland; com
mittee to notify vice-president. H. A
miles norwiweat or inernowitz, the capi
tal of Bukowina, the war office an
nounced to-day. In addition to previous
captures, the Russians have taken 20
officers, 8.000 men, six guns and 10 ma
chine guns.
Further north the Russians have fol
lowed up their victories along the river
Styre and are steadily advancing t the
northwest.
Berlin, via London, June 14. The Rus
sian otfeneive. whico has been directed
lagainst the southern portion of the east
ern front broke out Testerdav against
Field Marshal Von Hindenbtirg's forces
at a point about 75 miles north of
Pink. Tne Russians made seven uc-
Iceseite attacks with massed infantry.
The war office announcement to-day save
Miss Pauline Lvon of Bjrliagtnn re
turned thi forenoon t her home, after
a week's visit in the. city with Mr. and
Mrs. H. A. Bowman and other relatives.
Lynn Have of Burlington, who gave
a talk on publicity last evening at the
regular meeting of the- board of trade,
returned to-day to his home.
Carlyle Hancock, a member of the
graduating class of Norvich university,
who was graduated Ir i:i Montpelier
high school in 1012. left this forenoon for
St. Albans. He hs secured a position
aa civil engineer with the Central Ver
mont Railway company.
William Inells left lat evening for
Cheyenne, W yoming. whre he will make
a several weeks' vi'it with relative.
R. E. Wilkinson left yesterday after
noon for lliic-ago, to spend the summer
with relatives.
Work on the stone observatory to be
constructed on Capitol hill in the rear of
chard land, 2; acres of forest lund, 87.
THREE PUT UNDER ARREST.
Pond of Brsttleboro; honorary vire pre's- that all were, repulsed with heavy WY 'h Hf"""' s com menced to-day
ident of convention. Elmha Bigelow of .under tha direction of . ohn Miglenni. a
Irndonvi!!e: ntrnal committeeman.
James E. Kennedy of Willisfn.
VETOED BY WILSON.
AUSTRIAN'S REPULSED.
Italians Everywhere Successful, Accord
ing to Rome 05 rial Statement,
Rome, tia lyondon. .Tune It. Austrian
Proposed Plank t Prohibit Federal
Jodjea from Being Candidates,
Washington, D. C June 14. Efforts to
insert a plank in the Pemorratic plat
form favoring a law prohibiting federal
judges from leaving the bench to aorert
n elective oTi.-e w i.l not be countenanced 1 the reeu't
local rontnu-UT.
ing const nn ted
The observatory is be-
by the Hubbard park
1 j . a- , . . . .
commissioner on gr'ninu nieu i' ine
commissioner by the lte Jeke S. Vile.
nd wht-n completed a uiagnilicent view
will be afforded. The foundation was
constructed lt ummer.
Mrs. Robert Fisher of Burlington, who
suffered a broken ankle ten days ago as
of a runaway, n-nt nurs to
Couldn't Give Satisfactory Statement to
Montpelier Police,
tliief Connolly of. the Montpelier po
licei department to-day arrested three
men who could not give a satisfactory
account of themselves following a rob
bery at the Spooner A Soper garage
whre a coat of B. U Spooner was stolen.
Th three men gave the names of Fred
Rcws of B ia.ton, Charles Tallnitt of War
ren and James Murphv of I'latt-biirc.
X. Y. It is said that the men will be
held pending an investigation of the
possible connection of any of them with
the postomce break in illiamotown
Monday morning. Meanwhile Roe is
charged with lan-epy and the other two
with being tramp.
There Are Comparatively Few Changes
as Announced By Supt. White for
the Opening of the Schools
Next September.
Supt. C. II.' White of the city schools
has completed the list of teachers for the
coming year, showing comparatively few
changes,-and announcement of. them is
made as follows:
Spaulding high school Henry H. Jack
son, principal; Elnazer J. Dole, Danville
John T. Hubbard, Ccnterbrook, Conn.;
I.eRay Ryan, Dry den, N. Y.; Charles L.
Brown, Barre; Stella M. Brooks, Barre;
va, G. Smith, Barre; Mabel A. Taylor
lroctor; Ada E. Waugh, Levant, Me.;
Miriam A. Howard, Brattleboro; Hazel
H. Partridge, Worcester, Mass.; Lucille
. Robinson, Morrisvule; Ruth H. Spin
ney, Marlboro, Mass.; Julia C. Carter,
Yergennes: Marion E. Smith, Easthamp-
ton, Mass.; Bernice Newborg, Dorchester,
Mass.
Ward 5 building Wilhelmina E.WWlk
er, Barre; Arlene M. Jeffords, Wuliams-
town; Ethel C. Warden, Barre; Kathleen
C. Gilfeather, West Rutland.
North Harre school Elizabeth. A. Car
son,' Barre; Abbv C. Mack, Hardwick;
Anna M. McDonald, Sharon; M. Lowessa
Holt, Barre; Antoinette J White, Wil
der; L. Lavone Skinner, Waitsfield;
James B. Miller, Johnson; Gertrude A.
Brady, Bakersfield.
Brook street Louise Watt, Barre;
Hazel M. Hack, Brandon; Alice P. Blanch-
ard, Barre; Grace E. McKinistry, South
Woodbury; Harriett M. Bover, Randolph
Center; Hazel K. Rogers, Bramtree.
Summer street Susie E. Currier, East
Hardwick; Margaret Doheny, Barre; Lila
J. Perry, Cabot.
Ayers street Eldusta H. Ramage,
Barre; Clara B. Dodge, Morrisville; Ruth
V. Sowden, Barre; Ruby Bradley, Barre.
Lincoln Mabel G. Fisk. Altoona. Fa.;
Leda B. Stevens, Cabot; M. Alice Moore,
Mclndoe Falls; Arietta Richie, Barre;
Elizabeth McXaney, Bakersfield; Vila M.
Laplant, Montgomery Center.
Mathewson Hattie I. Tillotson, Barre;
Eleanor E. Sweet, Barre; Lucy J. Mack,
Hardwick; J. Florence Holland, North
field Falls; Mabel W. Chandler, North
field; Geneva H. Reynolds, Alburg; M.
Grace Ingalls, Northfield; Josephine Fisk,
Altoona, Pa.; Alice V. Healy, Montpelier;
Adele J. McConachie, Northfield; Lelia B.
Griffin, Newport Center; Alice E. Tvn
dall. Hyde Park.
Spaulding school Alice M. Strathern,
Island Pond; Nellie J. Perrin, Barre;
Sadie A. Boyee, Williamstown ; Florence!
A. Wooster. Marshfield; Gertrude C. Wil
liarm, Poultnev.
ADD m (TNTS
- Wail a r
TO TAX LEVY
City Council Decides That
$2.40 Will Be Necessary
for Present Year
ESTIMATED GRAND
LIST IS $62,500
Band Appropriation
Another Discussion, '
No Action Was T'
x
.s; .
Soaring considerably . jfj tax levy
that the city fathers fU the council
meeting last, evening through the . me
dium of a resolution Drought in by the
aldermanic finance committee and adopt
ed unanimously. Along with 28-cent
gasoline, 15-cent trolley fares and cloud
capped sugar prices, the tai rate goe
aloft for a season. On a grand list esti
mated thus early to be $62,500, the rate
is to be $2.40, an increase of 10 cents
over the levy of last year.
Here is how the tax is to be divided:
State school tax 10 cents, state highway
tax 5 cents, county tax 1 cent, city high
way tax m cents, city school fax 70
cents, special evening drawing school tax
4 cents, sinking fund tax 15 cents, gen
eral city tax $1.15. The report from the
nance committee, incorporated in the
form of a resolution providing for the
2.40 levy, lollowed a long scries of con
ferences in which the finances of the city.
it is said, were carefully studied.
The Band Discussion,
That the aldermanic session slated for
the second meeting of the month should
have developed into a council meeting
was due to the fact that the resolution
could be handled only in council session.
Much of .the business and most of the dis
cussion occupied the attention of the aldermen.
Friends of the young Christopher Co
lumbus band, which is bidding for a pnrt
of the band concert appropriation, loyally
came to the assistance of the Italian 11111-
Music supervisor Josephine E. Hovev, sicMns and there were just as enthusias-
Canaan; assistant, Blanche L. Russell, tic supporters for the maintenance of the
Barre. Barre Citizens' band, which promises to
Drawing supervisor Fanny G. Perry, disband if the usual budget of $1,000 is
Nashua, N. H. sliced. Henry A. Phelps appeared with
a petition, signed by a large number of
business men, asking that the Citizens'
band, as a community, asset, be preserved
by adhering to the customary program.
Mr. Phelps w-as supported in his argu
ment by B Wr. Hooker and f. D. Lndd,
while their remarks made an opening for
speeches bv Henrv Russ, John T. Calla-
Vermont Public Service Commission Over- ghan and W. J. Clapp in favor of giving
the younger musicians $126 for a couple
of concerts.
GIVE CERTIFICATE
TO CENTRAL POWER
CORPORATION
rules Objections of Montpelier & Barre
Light & Power Co. and the Joseph
Battell Estate Two Other
Orders Given.
Finding that the proposed power plant
of the Central Power 'Corporation of Ver
mont on the Middlebury river will pro
mote the general good of the state, the
Vermont public service commission has
At times the discussion waxed quite as
furious aa some of the gnb cabarets that
are. held in the council chamber when
visitors are not present. In the end the
special band committee, appointed by the
mayor some weeks ago, wag asked to as
certain whether the big band will really
disband if the $1,000 is not forthcoming
for 16 concerts. But that waa after the
citizens' meeting had dispersed and not
before a swift exchange of parthian shots
granted a certificate to that effect despite j across the oak table had taken place.
the sharp opposition of the Montpelier 4,
Barre Light A Power company, into
whose territory the new corporation pro
poses to run its power lines. The certifi
cate is granted on condition that the fol
lowing provision w inserted: That "in
th
Mr. Phelps spoke of the Citizens' band
as an aswet which the city can ill afford
to lose. Mr. Hooker called up other diys
when the band had a hard struggle to ex
ist and something of the tenor of their
remarks was echoed by Mr. Iidd. Alder
man Bruce verified statements tending to
how that individuals interested in the
e sale of electricity persons residing had annualh. Aug down to mef
ermont, municipal cm pnra wuiis in 1 uenclts.
The imputation of Mr. Rus. who prob
ably referred to the Board of Trade when
he mentioned the board of health, that
Mesrs. Phelps, Hooker and Lndd wero
interested in throwing out the life line to
the Citizen' band because the musicians
persons doing business in Vermont shall
have the preference, under similar terms
nd conditions. This provision shall be
considered as a contract between the cor
poration and the state of Vermont for
th
e benefit of such incorporations thereof LA promiw.d , pUv tr th(,ir suprprs
DARTMOUTH'S NEW PRESIDENT.
of two gmnpa of men trading pntvpW j attack along the roina line in 'wit Vrn by the president. Administration ofTi- (gain at I!eton bptl.
I ke competitor in fs-h market, in tlTyrot made aftr in'en! airtiSWy ciala let it be known to day that th j The o.r.d:ton of Mr. F.'.nr P. SI-.
-ope that eome ooirprmis wou'd win j preparation Mondar n;g?.t. were eery- pre'dent bad aetit word to St. Loui 1 wV waa operated npon at Haaton b"pi-
poMie "j-p. -t TVt fcave iwt mm to-iwher rpu(ed by the Ital!n. the wsrjtSat r.m did not want any petty pol.tw tl aeveral !' ago. cortinues to iiu-rJhrT-l:tj-
lae fa'.Ita cut o'er C effii aRfwun'-e-l to day. j-layed. rro'e.
Enest Martin Hopkins of Newton, Mas.
Has Been Selected.
Boton. June 14. The election of Er
nt Msrtin lb pkins of Newton aa pres
ident of iMrmoiith college to fill tile
t.-an-y c'im.1 by the re:pnatnn of
Ene-t Foi Nir-hol. w announced lt
nigM by Humer E. Keye. business di-rect-r
of the odioge. Mr. IL'pkin u a
grpd'.i!e of Dartmmith and fnrmer
)t it svrtry.
He waa b m in Dunhartn. N. H . in
Noxember. 177. and was g-d:itet fo m
orrtr aade'"y :n 1M and frem
;:tmo :t'i in l''l. He re!'-d tHe lie-1
gr.e of A. M. in V X
s may tie hereatter eftectert.
The objection fo the granting of the
certificate was presented t hearings held
in Middlebury on reb. 24 and March L,
last. The Montpelier A Barre Light it
lower company stated that its concern
as supplying all the electrical energy
ema ruled by Northfield. Berlin, Barre
Town, Barre Citv, Montpelier and WH
liamatown for all purposes; that a com
petitive situation would be developed if
the proposed corporation should enter the
territory, which would be alike ruinous
to the said company and the proposed
corporation and would lie to the public.
il rather than to the public good; that
the proposed plan of development was
mpracticable and that the expense made
prohibitive when considered with re
gard to the electric energy which could
be developed and distributed therefrom.
Another objection Mm entered by the
Joseph B'.ittell estate, to the effect that
the proposed development wouM destroy
the scenic effeit of Middlebury gorge,
would require a diveraion of the highway
now leading to Rread loaf inn, would re
quire a large amount of land now owned
by the estate and that the land culd
not be. taken by right of eminent domain.
The public service commission swept
away the ohjer-tions of the Battell etate
by stating in its report that the proposed
development would not injure or impede
aceeAa to Bread Loaf inn. aa the plan
oontemplate the building of a new and
better highway m placf ot tte present
road: that scenic beauties hmild nit
tand in the way ot industrial develop,
meet in ermont and that the dfvi'ion
on the right of eminent domain " not
matter f.r the beiring in question.
Coming to report n the obiect-on of
the V.mtpr'icr A I'rre Lig'it & Powr
compsTiy. the commission aerT tr.t u
r.o4 rr-a.ly to pas fatcraWv or un
faoraWy npi'n the corporations plan of
deselopment but that eentoi!v to gt
ipproa) for iinre of sto-k it ml! n
naMi'-y for the corporation ta satisfy
the iuiii!-ji"ii "t'lat the dee!opment i
i:Hte orrrmrrria !lv, wiil render a fn ir
ret'jrn on the m"S'r in'-t-!. w;"l bare
a market for it out cut of r 't- trie errrv
st rates wb.ch will
on certain occasions wa stoutly denied
by Mr. Thelps. Judge Clapp favored the
idea of aiding the Columbus band becaue
he thought that the leader of the youth
ful musician was helping to solve the
problem of keeping the boys out of mis
chief vacation. If the question of di-
bandment was concerning the Citizens'
band simply because it couldn't claim all
of the $1,000, then Mr. Clapp was in fa
vor of letting t ho older musicians g
their way. Alderman Reynolds thought
that the energy expended in preparing
the petition would have g"iie a long way
toward nising by popular subscription
the $126 necessary to keep the Citizen
band. Messrs. Phelps. Lndd and Hooker
disclaimed anv idea of opposing the pro
gression of the Columbus band and of
fered to subscribe liberally t' it support
in the event that a paper is circulated.
lrofesor Cropelli. leader of the bind.
was present, nut most 01 tne Hiking tor
the Columbus boys w.is done by others.
John T. Callaglian put in his oar quite
often for the young hand and Mr. Kns.
on his feet for the second time, tol.1 of
Professor Cropelli'ii devotion to the in
terest of the boys. ben the aldermen
had the subject all to themselves. latT
in the evening, personalities were intro
duced and the que-tion of unionism was
introduced, but mo-t of t!'e opposition to
the plan of dividing the fl.'ssi was based
on the seeming delay of the t'olnmh:i
band in putting in its bid. There was no
cb-inge. individually, in the sentiment ex
pressed two weeks ago when 't was voted
to gie O.r Coliimbu plajer two con
certs. Aldermen f;vson. Bru.-e an I
Mesh- were for pre-vrirc the b' band,
and Mayor Gordon and Aldermen Vhtirt
. ff. Reynolds and Posi fatore i tli".
vmingT niusn un'.
South Ms'n Street's Railroad Crossing,
"iipt. A. A- MelJ.in- and Lnp-neer
"atn of te M 'rtix-lfr A Wells Pir
railroad at the ir:tJtion of th- treet
eommttee rbairrrian. 1 fin to ta:k ocr
sm:t!i Ma n tre-t r-atter. Te en
gineer carried an i-r roll ot e . 11
n.nt tat were r t n-l. as Ce o-Tifa'
(Ccrtir, ,
relied ms r'y npn oral t.,,,.,,, f ,
he ta:r to Kth tH 1 r. !tve t'e li'Trn that notir; i
I cn -vsi rSm I iCon' t! :ed en fsirt pare. I
i
