VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 1916.
HUGHES AND FAIRBAt4KS
ARE REPUBLICAN NOMINEES
Roosevelt Nominated By PROGRESSIVES NAME
The Progressives THEODORE ROOSEVELT
BUT HE DECLINES ('orionel Declines the Nomination Con.
THE NOMINATION ditionally. Leaves ncelsion in Hands
Within an Hour After Chairman Hard
lig had Advised Justice Hughes of Chicago, June 10.-The Progressive
his Nomination, the Justice had Ac. National Convention, after four days'
cepted. Resigns Justiceship. tumult with only one purpose it view,
Chicago, June 10.-The Republican today nominated Col. Roosevelt for
National Convention today nominated President and a few hours later listen
Charles Evans Hughes, of New York, ee without protest to a message from
and Charles W. Fairbanks, of Indiana, Oyster Bay that le would not "accept
as the candidates of their party for at this time". The convention adjourned
President and Vice President. at 4I 1p. In.
Almost at the same moment Theo- Col. Roosevelt's declination wvas con
(lore Roosevelt was nominated by the tlional and It. wts llaedo iN o the hands
National Progressive Convention, and of the Progressive national committee
later in the day John Ml. P'arkeri of to b~e held until such time as state
Louisiana, was named as running Inents to be issued by Justice Hughes,
mate. the nominee of the Republican party.I
The Republican nomination reqiuire shall Satisfy the committee that it.
a ballot, the third of the conven tion ~I for the intes of theou ltry that lie
while the Progrrtsive nomination wes le elestets."
mnadle by accilaOtioe BIn the event the committee shall be
Ir." Roosevelt's provisional declina- 1satisfied that aic oveno be givour
tion to accept the Progressive rToiiiit- the RClican party Col. Roosevelt's
tion is believed by the politically wise refusal to make a campaign is to be
to leave the or ajar, if not wide ad considered final, it will then be att
en, for eventual Joithdrawal of the thorized foi the representatives of the
third ticket ith the event dir. hughes' Progressive arty to say whethe i ty.
position on what the Progressives fool endorse the omsitio e taken by a i.
to be th, vital issues of the cam aign Roosevelt or e e ther they will name
meet thoi' approval. Tio this extent, at Ianother mn to fight foi' their piarty.
least, the leaders in both parties feel John M. Parker, of Louisiana, as
that his efforts at harmony, even if not nominated for Vice President, the se
directly fruitful of result, may yet b a lection being by acclamation.
realized. Col. Roosevelt's running mate of four
years ago, Governor Hiram Johnson,
Washington, June 1o.-Charles Ev- of California, refused to let his name
an, Hughes resigned today from the be placed before the Convention, be
Supreme Court and aecepted the - cause of the Information lie had eon
publican nomination fo President. In corning the intentions of Col. R.se
a telegram denouncing the Adminis- I voelt toward his nomnaton. Several
ti'ation's foreign pelicies and deolatr I.other.naes, and notably that ofaray
ing for a "dominant, thoroughgoing mond Robins, who was both touin ary
Americanism," lie gave hi decision to and permanent chairman of the 'Con
Chairman Harding, of the Republican vention, wen'e offered, but not seconded
National Convention, aod bloke tie I Prio' to reading the message from
long silence which had kept the lead Oyster Bay some minutes were con
ci's of his party In the dark as to his slimed in dr'awing from doeogatgs and
attitude on ghat they termed the party suppo'ters the usual sinews of
great Issues of tile (lay. ewap i the form of voluntary financial
"I have not desired t e nomination," contributions.
the telegram began. "I have wishd
to remain on the bench. But il this HOCK MtIIIAGE ,t MOUNYil.
critical eriod of our national history
I recognize that It is youd right to Entertainment to be Given fom t(
summon and that it is my paranount Benefit of the Rural School Jill.
Naity to resond." provenient Association,
Within an hiour' after Chairman The ru ral school improvetment as
larding had not ie hi of his old
nation wr. hughes had accepted the eoctino th poit so is
call. Ilus resignation, a scant two
mont giveom by local people in nt,
line letter without a superfluous w~ord(, school house Friday night, the 16 01t.
has on its wa g to the White wi0sed A o marriage will be staged, when
trom the I ughes home before he "Miss" Willie ipp will be ted p to
nominee had dispatched the message it. James Scott Winebrenner. yu one
of acceptance. P esidnt Wilson ac-t
cepted the resignation in a eply al-e ven e
most as bief. admission t efo will he 1 h a d n
cents. The following is the caste o
In legal circles i. Hughes ter:
i.voherhna bee, ardgnotabe-y thatheofp-Ray
monrd' Robis, whowsbot temoary
Minestaan hlf dzeaohe pihermnetchira C. theipon
States.rioritosread'nt yearmonsthe brnc
lieanounedthedeisin oldngli Bdsum id drawing fro' deegt. an
cost itrtyioupaortnrslthamusstatsitewthat
warnsn the C.r Wats olunAry finnler 1
the cort decded sactione a cfor rAibutii ns. F.A Ewrs
of penage.lwl~ltug tEnt'oer iment tore ullenfr, thei
lieellt of theturaliSchooliIm
duytorson. richardn e AsCrispCldeon.i
Oklahnman.l hor awe alyintRig earCaoSew h
I~intrsate comerce, i unonstitutinaml,--~ fI oo .Al
natio(intr. Hugm hesa aCourtedi teri err hFle
ction ins annuligasuntution alanistrantS.two-a
line ofee witout a eplero wre
wasreon etspwaye to areWie ouse AUtN~ IS9 O7
ron atninh e alghshom disefrei the Dfae h rewo il1cn
nolmein hdldingpated nkthemsadgoe I n o h np~c n ats
ofac e atnce. AresideW.so e mdfae h Genod M
hetetero resignatio n of Juep ic tealsl-tra feronh h
mosthas conied re etne.soeo iet svn ohia
InJugae ircesM.101ghe gatest elstmnt f lyta
"orhs benregrdet winerwathrtin.opin-nn h
Ion heeyi in the tw-en maecaes frmo-m esna h oall' asb
elateJs.tnie ofrt Suearmnte borench ndtepefranelstStr
the niuned Stthe daecadsthonehholadingst un--'
"oituiam sin' repclaam syatuse tha ece h ihcassae h
the ortcided snthisoney ao form wr ~m utiler c
reignatione and feconstrdined toeenodtemni h o n h
yieldahom Joi' desre. la, therefore atonnbhndteb ~ovdtesas
itrtt yo ercenuonstiuticeoftltra helcltemwl
the dSupemeCutonh nted tackl the husurtnreen ithsa
nale oence f catmponce, tooeereetw-easar ret
"Sinceely' yurTel muatchedhood aimpbrooden bat
"MWss"rWilWilsHi." wtle bs txpdcuedt
ARtIMY OF D)E3IO(I A TS
31''ViNG ON ST. LO'IS
"Peace, Prosperity and Prealredness'"
Slogan of invading host. Ledaers
of Party to be Nomtitated.
St. Louis, June 1.-The forerun
ners of the 1,092 delegates who are
to nominate President Wilson and
vice President .larshall at the )emio
eratic national convention this week
are moving into St. Louis with the
slogan "Peace, Prosperity and Pre
paredness". The convention will hold
its first session at noon Wedlesday.
A contest over six seats from the
District of Columbia in the conven
tion will' be taken by the national
committee tomorrow. The committee
will also decide contested seats on the
national committee from Texas and
the District of 'Columbia. Thos. Love
is contesting the seat of William Poin
dexter of 'T'exas and four Democratic
clubs in Washington are contesting
the selection of .John F. Costello as
comimitteeman.
Every delegate either is instructed
for or comitted to the relollilatioll
of President Wilson.
A few votes are expected to be cast
for some favorite sons for the vice
presidential place, but party leaders
predict the other names will be with
drawn and that Vice I'resident .\ar
shall's renomiination, like that of
i'resident Wilson, will be made by ac
('laimatiou.
"We are lure to ratify the desire of
tlh )eimocratic party," saih National
Chairumn MeCombs tonight. "There
mlight he a light if we could hold the
convention in Europe. It's a certain
ty there wili le no tight here. The
programme is all arranged and there
should be no hitch."
Woman suffragists who led the fight
for a suffrage plank in the Republican
platform are ready to wage a similar
campaign for a suffrage plank in the
IDe'mocgiatic platfil'm. 'Mlenbeps on
the committee from the suffrage
States are expected to lend their aid.
The leaders now here do not expect
any sustained fight for a prohibition
plank.
Eyes on Biryan.
There were unconfirmed reports to
night that William J. Bryan, though
not a delegate, would find some way to
precipitate a fight on the pirepared
ness plank, but none of his friends
were in a position to say how he
might touch on the issue in a conven
lion in which he is not a delegate.
M.\r. Bryan will only lie able to ad
dre(:ss the convention with the unani
mols consent, of its 1.0.112 delegates
and he may not occuiy a reat on tie
floor of t he convention unless both Ia
delegate and his alternate ret ire and
give himt their proxy.--Tlhe State.
F1,'111NG RUtNS HIGH1.
31 exicans Bitter Toward .Americans in
3!anzani a.
San Diego, Cal., June 11.--:Ameri
cans arriving here today from Man
zanilla, Mexico, reported that condi
tions in the Guadalajara district were
critleal and declared Mexican au
thlor itles and1 otherts weie foiment ing
anti-American feeling.
The lack of putirchasling power of
the de facto currency w~as giveni as
the cause of lpresent condit ions.
Th'le Uniitedl States collier' .Mars was
due1 to arrive here tonight with 17
Amiericans fiom Sina aboaird.
IIE'iEA ANNOI'N('ES.
ILiutenaant-(Governior (Offer's for lIe.
Election.
Columbia, June 12.-Urging an in
creasedl respect fiir con)stlited aiu
thority, and stressing the nec'essity of
educating the childrien of the state,
Andrew J. llethea, of Columbia, lieu
tenant governor, last night announced
his candidacy for re-elteellen,
Mr, liothea said that he had been
ttrged by miany to make the race for
governor', but that he feels compelled,
from a sen~se of duty to continuie in
the office that he nowv holds for the
next two years, if the people so elect.
Eli1t0lt I N ASSESS3MENTS.
Schedule as Printed last Week ('on
tined Several Errors.
In the schedule of assessments
pirinted last week, errors were made
in regard to the assessments for slier
1ff and county commIssioner. The as
sessment for sheriff should have been
$20 and for county commissIoner $5.00.
Langston Church Biox.
The enrollment book of Iangston
church club may be found at the resi
denen of Mr. T. P. Poole,
NAT''IONA i, (4l'AIlt) 1AYa'
BI CALIED INTO E11V1('
In Order Issued by ('overnor 31annine
(Guanrdsmen lare Urged to Prepare
for 31exico.
Columbia, June 1:2.-A strenuous ef
fort will be made to place the South
Carolina national guard on a wartime
footing. It Is probable that the state
forces will be called for service in
Mexico at a very early date and this
state was urged in an address today by
Governor Manning to furnish its full
(Iuota of men.
Governor Richard I. Manning as
commander-in-chief of the South
Carolina national guard issued the fol
lowing executive order this morning:
"in view of the probable call for the
mobilization of the national guard for
service in the near future I deem it of
the utmost importance that the olicers
and enlisted men in this slate begin at
once and in earnest, active prepara
tions for increasing the strength and
elliciency of the several commands."
"I do not believe that the citizens
and soldiers of any state in the 'nion
are more loyal and patriotic than those
of South ;Carolina and should the call
come it i is m3 desire that the organ
izations from this state make the best
showing by being the first to notify the
president of oiuri readiness and pre
paredness hoth in me1(n1 and ('111(eicne to
respond to the call of (liuty in defense
of (ur" national honor.
"I desire tills order read In the
presence of each company and divisionI
and that the men be impressed with
the urgent desirability and necessity
for prompt patriotic and enthusiastic
action looking to increasing the
strength and elliciency of the South
Carolina guard and naval militia.'"
DEATH OF REV. LEITCH.
We'd-Known Methodist Evangelist
'asses Away inl ('ol um1bia.
Columbia, June 12.-The Rev. Thom
as 11. Leitch formerly superintendent
of the Oliver Gospel mission, died sud
denly at a 'Columbia hospital last
night about 10:30 o'clock.
For 30 years Mr. Leitch has been
an evangelist of the Methodist Epis
copal church and in this capacity has
been throughout South Carolina and
in many sections of the United States
from New York to Denver and in the
South.
Mr. Leitch, who became editor of
The Way of FaitIi about a year ago,
suicceeding the Rev. .lames .\. Pike,
was born in London, England, in I 850.
11 came to America at the age of 8
years and up until three years ago
had spent a large part of his life in
('tiarle (ston. lie there b)ecame a local
ireaciher in the Methodist churc' :'nd
was not connected directly with Ilie
con ference.
Fuineral arrangements hav been
post poned until his sons reach ('o
liumbia.
Mr. Leitch is survived by his wife.
two daughters, Misses .1ncie and
May belle Leitch, all of (Columbia; a
son T. .1. Leitch in the l'nited States
nav'y, and two SOnis in Charnileston, W.
Mr. Lecitch anRd hiis taily i 'I ed at.
he O1lyver RGospiel miisslin, of whIich'l
lie wa.<( the active suinihRtendent (in
coin g to (Colunmi. le tins onii
tiniied his ('onnlection with thei RmiS
slin Since( assumin lg I he (dut ies of
ediltor oif Ttie Way 0f lFaih. a week
Ry ireligious tain p ub liilitsthed in ('o
liumbia with ani internat ina cir'cula
Active charge of the Oliv'er Gos
jiel miissioni was takein over' 0only y'.
I erd(ay by the R1ev. IR. L. Todd, who
tias had wide expjerlence in miissionariy
work.
Metngi of D,. A. Ii,
A called meeting of the Henry 'aIu
r'ens ,ehaptei', D). A. iR., will be held
at the residence .of Mr's. Br'ooka Swvy
gert at fiye o'clock this (WVednesday)
after'noon. All the membeirs are urged
to be present as business of import
ance is to be transacted.
ir's. lBrooks Swvygert, Pres.
Lec(ture at 0 ray' ('ourt-Owings.
Ani itllustrated lecture Onl "Elirope"
will be given at the (Iray Court-Ow
ings school building Felday night at
8:30 o'clock by Miss Wit Lou GIray.
Rteadlings by Miss Rebecca Dial anid
Instrumental music by Miss Hattie
Gray will also be on the pr'ogram. The
entertainment will be given under the
auspices of the school improvement
association, The public is cordially
invited to attend. An admission fee
of 10 cntsi will be charged.
WVS .M1iTIN PIItOPEItT.
Three Store.lIooms Next to Ein(erprise
Bank Bought by. Mir. L. E. Burns.
.'ir. i.. H. Iturns, Chief of the iRed
Iron IRacket store;, has pircliase(
from .\lr. E. W. Martin the block of
stores next to the Euntellrise National
lank building. The block consists of
three store-rooris, one occupied by the
Laurenis ltakei y, another by Whiteners
barber shop and the third inoceupie(l.
Mi. }Irns announces that lie will be
gin the overhauling of these lt ree
rooms at a very early (ate, most
probably the first part of ,July. The
building will he made into three
handsome store-rooms and will be
made thirty feet longer than they now
are. Ile has not decided as to the
plans for the second story. The front
of the entire buibling will be changed
and modern paite-glass and pressed
brick fronts will be installed. The
rooms wil be for rent afier the coin
pletion of the overhlian:iiig. The cale
was made i ltroughi I. .\. Wolft.
I). .A. I).\VIS IctIl) T1O lIIISTI.
I''neral Sertices lieldl Wed'(nesday 1
Uning at (he I1,anr1enls Cemetery.
aeiir(ial Services over the body of D.
-\. Iavis, whose death was noted in
the last issue of this paper, were hold
at the .:nurenl; remiete#ry Wedei'sday
evening. al(nde(d by a. large iiuimber
of soliowin! friends ai relatives. The
services were conducted lby his forme
er pastor, iRev. W. E. Thayer, of Snin
ter, and R1ev. C. A. laker, temporary
pastor of the irst ilalitist churlh, of
which .\lr. Davis was a member. The
floral IribuIes were ninerouis and
beautiful. )uring the service an im1
presslve musical program was render
ed by a choir composed of many of
those with whom the deceased had
been associated in the musical t life
of the city.
The active pall bearers were: L. M.
Roper, F. M. Smith, S. P. Babb, W. P.
Thomason, S. .1. Wilkes, J. A. Franks,
W. R. McCuen and 1W. V. Minter. The
honorary pall bearers were: C. H.
Hobo, C. H. Roper, T. D. Lake, J.
Wells Todd, W. L. Gray, W. 11. Dial,
W. A. Whits, M. .1. Owings, W. R.
Richey, Sr., .1. S. Hennett, .1. C. Ow
ings, 1)r. W. C. Irby, G. C. Albright,
.1. N. W\'rlght, C. D. 1iarksilale, .1. 11.
Si-llivan, If. K. Aiken, 11. Y. Simpson.
PI('NI(' AT (,1AY ('01'T'l'.
lippii1st and11 .lethodist S1111day1 School
('lasses lii Iolly ''ime.
(ray (ourt, .lune 12.--Mrs. Donald
Dailton of the taptist Sunday school
and b .liss Eva Shell of the Metihodist
entertained the little folks of their
Sunday school classes with a joint
picnic last l riday. .\bout ten o'clohk
ill the monoung the children i...: heiri
teachers in tle rove at the old Ior
roll home and there they foime1d in
line and iaiched to the spot where
they had decided to serve their din
ner. After more ihan a mile's walk
from town, they came to a ipice only
rivaled for be(autiy in Itie tnounai.hi'
Near t his spot Ilowed a st reahm, thei
aitely up joniL arrivat thle boy~ s gtn
daiing the st reamil for wadiig. The
teachers. A\t hialf pa.t twele Li sphlE'n
dlid dlinner~ was .4'rved io the Itwenty
tw\o happy, huin.gry (thib~ i.
the jolly crowd: Ella .\ly Armost rong,
Mary G ray, G laidys J1ones. ('hara. 12 vi
lyn, MAlrgar et, Ma~iry IEllen. Nell, 11uthI
andii Vi rginiai Owlings, Mary Pedlen,
Louise Rolil, 'arrie, Myrt ieC and~ Net.
tIe Rlhodes, Marga ret Rlogers, Clyde
Armstrong, Floyd Armist rong, Ralph
Jones, Bob Rogers, Rex S'tepihene,
Halph TumblIng. The teachers, Mrs.
D~alton and Miss 3hell were assisted
by Mi's. WV. L. Armstrong and Miss
Mar'y Garrison In looking after the
little folks.
Cream Route Started.
Mir. P. W. Moore, the county farm
demonstrator, saidl Monday that he
was glad to announce that the cream
roilte on which lhe has been workIng
for some tIme ha~s been estaiblishied
circuit. 'The Itrips wIll be made t ri
weekly foi' the present. Th'le ioute
startedl wIth 67 cows on the list with
12 more pr'omiised. The eam is shIp
pedl to the Spartanburg Creamery and
the butter sold in large cities. Mr.
Arthur Putnam 1s collecting the cream.
The amount of tcream being collected
In on thn stendy Innrasn.
1Tif0 0NF[RINC[8 Of
TJ[ [PiFORTH L[ IJ[
State Conference Decides
to Follow Church
1916 SESSION
A PLEASANT ONE
C onference l)ecides to havte a Field
Secretary to Prolnote the Cause of
the Lengue in thi Stia'. I nspirini.
Addresses Featured ('onferetnce.
The (eiision to dlivide the Hautli
(Carolina Stile kjtworth Ifa)Iue ('oni
fl4re"nce into two coeil rences to mon-.
form to the t wo) .\ethodist conf :eOece
of Ile state Was the itsaland1! re
stlt of the State t t eonfe1 t e leI lero
Thursday. Fridayi. S.it tIda a}n Sun
day. This action w(as lu iken aiI tho
bus tiness futenting h i Thred9 .\n I'll -
other stet( taklen which Iixi cont( renen(t
exp~ects will resutlt in ' x tnsiver d1-vel
o(itn(ent of the leagues was the deci
sin to pet I ion the church1 confer
4 nces ti ulake an ap1ro:riation 1or a
field t e'retary} t promtiote V LisW(1th
I-ea':Ie i tereit all () ( r the state.
Iedttgs . we4e taken 134 su ppl[e4meti the
anti' iptatte( alIiroprhytion81 by the co1n
fer tniees.
The Conference; convened in tho
.\ethed ist church 'I'hnrsd ay night, with
the pr:sdenI, .1. Casper Smith, of Wa
terloo, presidiing. Devotional services
were conducted by Rev. J. T. Miller,
now pastor the Aec(or11ck cliurcl
and formerly pastor at Waterloo. Af
ter the devotional exercises welcono
addresses were made by Mr. .1. 11. Sul
livan, on the part of the city, and Miss
Rebecca Dial, on, the part of. the host-.
esses. 11. A. Daniel, of Columbia, re
sponded in a few well chosen words.
Dr. F. S. Parker, of Nashville, made
the address of the evening. "At the
close of the session a delightful re
ception to the delegates was tendered.
on the lawn.
All of the sessions of the conferenco
were marked by an earnestness and
an atmosphere of spirituality whidh
made them very I11piring ad1(1 which
left an indeliable impression upon
those who attended. The deleg;ates
(wi( prompt and regutlari in attend
ante and h11e business was (isptathledl
with ralidity. The addresses deiiver
ed during the conference were of a
high order and1l( were given close at
tention by the delegat:es and vis ilors.
Of particular interest to Laurens
'ounIity lpeople was the election of .1.
('aster Siith, of \\'aterloo, as presi
dent of th' U'pper South ('arolina Elp
'wor(t hiea l ue. Mir. .mit h has already
si rve( three years as president of tho
state league, where he showed great;
aIIIstness and zeal t Ihe work.
The Ihurtches (I the city wela 00
raupi d by visitors to thle Conft:eo
Sunay mlorning. Al. the l'resbtyteiant
iihurch(II l i .lohn 'aul~SI l'atton of Col
tist bhurch 1ter. \\MIter 1. lle:hert,
hi teachedt and at the .\ethodlist uch trlh
('has. G. I Iounahell, ofi New \ork:,
Ftllowing ani inspiring addreIls.; by
.\lr. I lotshiall at the .\lthiodist. church~l
Sun dayv evening t he conft-re nee ad
j1oulrned. lI efore adjourinment, how
(eer, resoltions were adlopted thank
ing the pleopile of ILaurens ft-r th1e dis
play of hospitality and the ollicers of
the conference for their untiring work,
besides expr-essing a dleterminiationl to
push the work of the league through
out the state. In an impressive ser
vice at the altar the dlelegates pledlged
their support to the ne why eleelted '0f
ficors and district secretaries. TIs
servIce was all the more impr~iesive
hecause it was the last one of Its kid
before the division of the conference.
The South Carolina I e'ague ar'-ept -
ed1 the Invitation of tile 54umiter elhurch
to me'et with them next yecar. TIhe
executive commiiiittee of the Uppe11r S.
C.League still had under considera
lion the malter of a place for Its next
me-eting whien the session adjouirnied.
Aboutt 1,50 delegates attendled the
confe~rence and all of themn weire en
tertainedl in Laurens homes. Most of
the delegates were young people and
all of them were pleasant and affable,
so it was considered a pleasutre and
ievilege to hav'o them in the city,
