Citizen
The pror' t who isn't known in his
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hash' t tried
until he has advertised Scribe ,
own cou.
an safely lay the blame
at the door v advertising; Proof
VOL. XXXV, V 37
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 191G.
$1.25 A YEAR
x II
ICE CREAM
Sunday Morning Delivery.
We have arranged to delivei Ice Cream, prop.
erly packed, every Sunday morning. The kind
nnother makes, only the best Jersey cream used.
encase oraer Deiore Saturday.
H. DODGE & SON,
Alamo Dairy, Morrisville
IC1S CRGAM !
5"! am now prepared to serve ICE
CUE AM, the pure klud. I sell it by the
pint, quart or gallon. Orders promptly
tilled and delivered on short notice. Tel
ephone 124-3. I also serve Ice Cream by
the plate at ray parlor.
J. Ellcnwood, - Hyde Park
NOTICE.
Having eold my meat business, all
accounts dne me mast be paid by June
15. All bills not settled by that date
will be placed in the hands of a collec
tor, and collected. J. H. WARREN.
Morrisville, June 5.
BIG DEMAND 1 Will
pay ?8 to $9 per ton de
livered at Morrisville. I
want everything yon
have to sell in old Junk
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 25-5 Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt.
Morrisville's Original Junk Man !
IRON
Hyde Park Oarage
The proprietors of the Hyde Park
tiAitAGK announce that they are no
ready far business in tbelr new aod com
modiouH quarters on Church street, Hydi
Park. They have secured the services of
A. Lee Cowles of Craftsbury, Vt., who
comes very highly recommended both as
a gentleman and as an expert in 0-arage
work, having had six years experience i
the work at Bridgeport, Conn., since
taking a training course with the Buick
Autouo. atFliut, Mich.. following grad
uation from Goddard Seminary in class
of 1910. With Mr. Cowles as their expert
and ready man tourists, as well as local
patrons, will receive prompt attention
and guaranteed service.
HYDE PARK GARAGE
OuTLNG
SHOES
SPECIAL
MILLINERY SALE
Tinrsflay, Friflay and Satnrflay
JUNE 15, 16 and 17
YOUR CHOICE
Any Hat in our store a
20 per cent discount
MRS. STELLA FOLSOM
Portland St.. - - Morrisville
BUSINESS NOTICES.
For every member of the
family, in large variety of
Styles and Sizes.
Some very late arrivals in
Vhife Rubber Soled
Pumps and Oxfords
for both Men and Women.
Most attractive prices for the
- highest grade goods.'
J4. C. Lace & Co.,
Agency for
Queen Quality Shoes The Packard Shoe
For Women For Men
F. BENSON, Manager, Morrisville, Vt.
H. Dodge & Son, proprietors of the Al
amo Dairy, have added ice cream to their
milk business. They advertise to deliver
ice cream, properly packed, for Sunday
dinner, the cream being delivered Sunday
?norning. This service will be appreciated.
Wanted. Hired man ; good wages.
Roy P. Macombek, Wolcott, Vt.
Wantbd Good girl for general housework,
small family, good wages. Address Box 38,
Stowe, Vt.
Wanted. A good secondhand No. 12 gauge
shot lun m good condition.
T. R. VVoodard, Morrisville.
Wanted. To buy some good Hens. Also
some good Native Beef.
A. W. Waite, Morrisvil'e,
Wantbd. Position to care for children, or to
do light homework.
Telephone 13-11, Johnson Line.
Wanted. A good reliable Housekeeper, t" be
gin at once.
Mrs H. Waitb, 79 Main St., Morrisville.4,
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel. 1 24-3 1 John Miner, Hyde Park.
For Sale I want to sell my entire stock of
merchandise at North Hyde Park. 1 have g iod
stock and a good trade which I will sell at a bar
gain. Reason for no doing, I am troubled with
asthma in this section. Apply at once to
Fred L. Miller, North Hyde Park.
For Sale. OneDeering Mowing Machine in
good repair, 5 ft. cut, one weeder with shafts, also
one buggy, pole and yoke, good as new. Will
sell the above cheap for c.i- 1. or would trsde tor
light express wagon with 1 seats. Inq we of
R. D No. a . C.G I .', Ii.rri-.ville
See Hbrb. I have ' el tor sale pair driving
harness, hay, oats mixed wi n eas, barley, stove
wood, fertilizer with 10 per cent potash, buggy,
cream buggy, cream wagon, set new upholstered
sleighs, mare 6 years old, mare 3 years old, organ,
sewing machine, tank heater, old potash keUle,
lumber, harrow, platform scales, and a lot of other
stuff, all for sale cheap. Mu-t be sold.
W. S. Newcomb, Morrisville
MORRISVILLE
We Keep Busy.
WHY?
Because the people are fast
becoming convinced that we carry
an assortment of the right kind of
merchandise, and our values are
just the kind you are looking for.
If you haven't purchased your
summer supply of clothing as yet
just start for this store, and you
will surely find your wants at the
price you want to pay.
A. J. SALEEBY,
The Store That Saves Yon Money,"
JOHNSON,
VERMONT.
Prof. Herbert Terrill of Maiden, Mass.,
is spending a week at the Terrill farm.
The Senior class of P. A. was photo
graphed by Bentley Monday afternoon.
Mrs. L. J. Fleming and daughter are
guests at the home of her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Ralph Clark, in Berkshire.
Miss Susan Delano of the U. V. M. is
spending Commencement Week at the
home of her cousin, Mrs. P. R. Davis.
Mrs. Lottie Wells of Montpelier is a
guest of her daughter, Miss Ina Wells, at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Spear.
Mrs. Lucy Hawkins of North Calais is
spending some time with her daughter
and husband, Mr. and Mrs. C.Leon Ter
rill.
O. L. Ovitt of Enosburg Falls, General
Manager of the Citizens Telephone Com
pany, was a business visitor in town on
Monday.
Levi Munson and N. G. Wood repre
sented Lamoille Commandery at the
grand Commandery meeting at Burling
ton yesterday.
Mrs. iaura JJoon ot Underbill is in
town to attend the graduation exercises.
Her nephew, Arnold Duffey, is a member
of the graduating class.
Mr. and Mrs. Rufus F. Atchinson were
in Starksboro, the latter part of last
week to attend the funeral of Mrs. Atch-
inson's cousin, Mrs. Alfred Jones.
Miss Clara Dodge has completed an
other year as teacher in the public
schools of Barre and is spending the
summer with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Dodge.
Sacks Bros., the new leasees of the
store in the Burke Block will commence
a grand opening sale on June 17. They
will carry a complete line of ladies' and
children's furnishings. See adv.
Paul Burnhain and Edward Emmons
left the first of the week for Bristol,
Conn., where they have secured posi
tions in a munition plant. Other Mor
risville young men are planning to go
later this week.
Mr. and Mrs. Asa Gates have rentei?,
the upper tenement in Leiand Ring's
house on Olive street and will move
there soon from their farm in Garfield.
Mr. Gates will be employed by C. H. A.
Stafford & Sons.
Ten little people were entertained at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Geo. P.
Drowne Monday afternoon, the occasion
being the seventh birthday of their
aughter, Louise. The little guests bad
a delightful afternoon. Refreshments
were served.
Mrs. George A. Cheney has received
news of the birth of a grandson, born
June 1, to her son and wife, Mr. and
Mrs. Earle Harris, of Minneapolis, Minn.
Congratulations are in order from a
large circle of Vermont friends.
Mr. and Mrs. B. E. Eaton entertained
Mr. Eaton's parents, Mr. and Mrs. M. B.
Eaton, at dinner Sunday, it being Mr.
Eaton's 74th birthday anniversary. In
the afternoon children and grandchildren
to the number of twenty called in honor
of the event. Refreshments of ice cream
and cake were served.
Noah W.Vincent of Caney, Kan., sends
greetings to his former Lamoille County
friends and to his soldier comrades
through the medium of the News and
Citizen. Mr. Vincent, who is 76 years of
age, was a member of Co. C, First Ver
mont Cavalry, and will be pleasantly
remembered by many here. In a letter
to a Morrisville friend he encloses sev
eral copies of an A B C Gospel Acrostic,
written by himself.
The following death claims have re
cently been paid through the General
Agency of Glenn A. Wilkins by the New
England Mutual Liie Insurance Com
pany of Boston: George A. Babcock, Jr.,
St. Johnsbury, $1000; August Johnson,
Barre, $1000; George B. Milne, Barre,
$5000; Wesley C. Sumner, New Haven,
$1000. adr.
COMMENCEMENT WEEK
Forty-Sixth Graduation at Peoples Academy
Closes Tonight. Twenty Six in Class
With the exercises at town hall this
evening the forty-sixth graduation at
Peoples Academy and a Commencement
Week filled with interest and pleasure
will be brought to a close. Beginning
with the class play last Thursday even
ing all the available time has been oecu
pied and a large number of visitors from
outside have been present at the various
events. The class of 1916 numbers
twenty-six, which is only two less than
the class of 1902, which was the largest
in the history of the school.
The following students comprise the
class in the different courses and will re
ceive diplomas at the graduation exer
cises at town hall tonight:
Latin-Scientific Elizabeth Powers,
Dorothy Lang, William Meacham.
English Course Harold Battye, Flor
ence Cornell, Arnold Duffey, Ray Smal
ley, Thelma Edmunds, Earl Keeler, B&l
lou Towne, Olie Bedell, Linwood Law.
Commercial Course Ellis Melendy,
Clarence Bates, Mae Cleary, Bertrand
Hubbell, Minnie Bliss, Ruth Mudgett,
Vera Gilbert.
Teacher Training Elvira Gale. Mil
dred Gale, Nida Grant, Alice Hayford,
Glee Merriam, Rossie Perry, Florence
Stewart", Nellye Tyndall, Leafie Kinney,
Mabel Lackard", Florence Martin , Jbl
sie Merriam.
Post-graduate.
THE FREEZER THAT
Freezes Ice Cream
WITHOUT TURNING
All the enjoyment without any of the work
THE AUTO VACUUM FREEZER
No crank to turn
No paddles to clean
No clanger of spoiling your cream with salt
It cannot get out of order
Just step into our store and let us tell vou about them more fully. The
modern way of freezing cream. Put one in your car, and your ice cream
is ready when you reacn your destination.
M. B. WHITE & CO.,
Lamoille County's Largest Home Furnishers
Licensed Undertakers Ambulance Service
IVToirris-vIlle,
Vermont
Civil Service Examination
The U. S. Civil Service Commission will
hold a competitive examination at Mor
risville on June 21 for the position of
clerk in the Morrisville postoffice. Infor
mation and the required application
blank can be secured by addressing O. B
Spaulding, ass't postmaster, Morrisville,
or District Secretary B. L. Falconer.
Boston.
The Johnson Normal
This week is closing week at the John-
on Normal School and the largest class
in its history, a class of eighty, will be
graduated. Under Dr. Peaks, who has
been at the bead of the school the past
three years, a splendid work bas been
accomplished the school having grown
from thirty students to 126. Dr. Peaks
retires with the Rood will of the ro
dents, as well as that of all who have
the interest of the Normal at heart and
there is general regret that "the powers
that be" could not see their war clear to
retain him at its bead. 1
Senior Class Play
The Senior class play which opened the
events of Commencement Week last
Thursday and Friday evenings was a
success and the innovation of presenting
the play during Commencement Week
seems to meet with quite general approy
al. "The Choice" by Marion Short,
while lacking in action and at times a
trifle slow, calls for some good acting by
all the principal characters and the cast
chosen for this presentation was a
happy one, all of the parts being taken
in an especially creditable manner.
The plot of the piece centers in the un
successful attempts made to dwarf the
the honest love of Gordon Barclay, a
Yale man, for Marion Simmons a pretty
and unaffected country girl and is a
wholimome story of to-day, bringing out
some "VtrikTrig' features bf TTfe'Tn""widely r
different circles. Ray L. Smalley, as Bar
clay, and Miss Avice K. Badger as Mar
ion Simmons, both looked and acted
their parts in a refreshingly natural and
pleasing style, both interpreting their
lines well, while refraining from over
doing them. Bertrand E. Hubbell, as
Teddy Farnura, Linwood B. Law a
Richard Henderson, who finally won the
heart of Elaine, and Arnold G. Duffey as
Charles Mason, members of Barclay'
fraternity, were real college men and
added a realistic touch to the piece, es
pecially at the scene at the Jewett home,
Miss Vera M. Gilbert, as Mrs. Henry
Tate Kirkland, a New York society wo
man, made much of the part, her stage
presence and acting being above th
usual in an amatuer performance, while
the work of Miss Vida Grant, as Mrs
Simmons, mother of Marion, was a bit
of character acting that would pass
muster among, professionals. In the
part ot Elaine Jewett, a society girl, of
dual impulses, there was a chance for
some good acting and Miss Thelma Ed
munds made the part stand out as one
of, if not the most, important characters
in the play. Her work in the third act
was especially strong. Miss Ruth E.
Mudgett was very good in the role of
Elaine's invalid sister, while Miss Merle
Smalley, as Patty Cloverleaf, looked
and acted the part of the modern society
girl to the satisfaction of all. Miss
Elizabeth L. Powers, as Sarah Apple
gate Slissy, Farmdale's dressmaker, was
at her best and her interpretation of the
role of the eccentric country gossip was
a fine bit of acting and added life to the
whole piece. Too much praise cannot
be given Miss Esther Greene, who took
the place of Miss Dorothy Lang, who
was cast lor the part of Betsy Scroggins,
Mrs. Simmons' hired help, on three days'
notice. She did the part to perfection
and got a laugh at every appearance.
Musie was furnished by the P. A. or
chestra, led by Mr. Merrill, both even
ings. On Friday evening Miss Esther
Greene gave the La Russe dance, which
was a part of the program of the Physi-
i r..i u:u:: r.
Following the reception a dance was
enjoyed the music, which was furnished
by P. A. orchestra being of a high order.
Pleasing features of this part of the pro
gram were the screen dance, given by
Misses Avice Badger, Esther Greene,
Merle Smalley. Barbara Small, Edythe
Stewart .and Isabel Harris and the se
lection by the octette, composed of Paul
Burnham, Carroll Silloway, Nora
Greene, Mildred Powell, Beatrice Morrill
Nellye Tyndall, Harold Ober and Ray
mond Ellis. ,
Refreshments of chicken salad, sand
wiches, coffee, ice cream and cake were
served by the following young ladies,
becomingly gowned in Japanesecostumes
Misses Doris Stone, Doris Graves, Net
tie Burnor and Bernice Bassett.
cal Culture exhibition, as a specialty.
which added much to the entertainment.
Junior-Senior Reception
The Junior reception to the Seniors
was given at Academy hall last Satur
day evening and as usual was one of the
most pleasant events of Commencement
Week. The ball was very prettily decora
ted with the senior class colors of red
and white, the decoration scheme being
carried out effectively in orchestra "cor
ner," where the musicians were station
ed behind a lattice work gate under an
archway. Miniature flags also were con
spicuous in the decorations. The class
officers were assisted in receiving by the
faculty and the hall was transformed
for the occasion into a large reception
room, easy chairs, divans etc., giving a
homelike and very pleasing effect.
Death of Carl A. Gile
The death of Carl A. Gile, one of Mor
risville's best known citizens, who had
been critically ill for the past two weeks,
occurred Tuesday morning at 6:40 at his
residence on Bridge street, death being
due to heart trouble and complications,
from which he had been suffering for
about three years. His condition had
been considered serious for several weeks
and four weeks ago he went to Burling
ton for treatment, where he remained a
week. Two weeks ago last Sunday
night he was taken worse, since which
time his condition had been very critical.
Last Saturday the symptoms were
slightly more encouraging, but the
thange was only temporary, and Mon
day it was known that the end was
near.
The funeral will be held from the home
Thursday afternoon at two o'clock, Rev.
R. D. Cranmer of the Universalist church
officiating. Members of Mount Vernon
Lodge, F. & A. M., and visiting breth-
... . . , . 1 J s . 1 . .
ren, win attena in a pouy anu toe Ala
sonic burial service will be given at the
grave, interment win oe maae in rviver
side cemetery in this village. The bear-
... . t T . - r
ers will De ur. ueorge ju. Dates, l,.
Gates, W. F. Sherman, A. G. Small. F. O,
Lunt and W. F. Churchill, with the em
ployes of the Morrisville Foundry Co.
as pall bearers. .
Carlos A. Gile was one of two children
of Albert and Almira Wilkins Gile. He
was born in Craftsbury, Vt., Jan. 26,
I860. When be was three years ot age
his father died while serving in the Civil
War and two years later he moved with
his mother to Morrisville, where he has
since resided continuously. He received
bis education at Peoples Academy and
when 19 years of age he entered the em
ploy of the late A. M. Churchill, where he
learned the tinsmith and plumbing trade,
remaining with the firm many years and
wenty-one years ago, in company with
W. F. Ohurchul, he purchased the busi
ness, which was continued under the farm
name of Gile & Churchill for six years,
when Mr. Gile sold bis interest to D. L.
Sanders. In company with O. B. Greene
he purchased the Morrisville Foundry
about fourteen years ago and much
credit was due him for the success of this
business during the twelve years he was
dentified it. He was obliged to dispose
of bis interest in the business because of
ill-health. He was united in marriage
on Nov. 7, 1SS3, to Miss Lizzie Hamel
of Morristown.
The deceased was for years an active
member of Mount Vernon Lodge, F. &
M., had served in the various sta
tions and was Master for two years. He
was also a member of Burlington Lodge,
No.916, B. P.O. Elks. He was for many
years a leader in the band and orches
tra circles, being an expert cornetist, and
gave of both time and money in the in
terests of the local band. He was for
many years a member of the Water and
Light Board and to him as much as any
one man is due the success of these two
departments. He was a member of the
band at the time of his death.
Carl will long be remembered because
of his strong personality, but to hia
friends, and they were legion, the trait
that will remain undimmed after others
may be forgotten, will be bis unselfish
ness and thoughtfulness for others. The
little things that he did every day with
no desire for reward, were an index to
his big-heartedness and geuuineness of
character.
He is survived by an aged mother, a
wife and one daughter, Miss Alice Gile,
Chicago, who has been here for the past
two weeks, and one sister, Mrs. B. P.w
Dr'ownT of Morrisville. ' The sympathy ""
of the community goes out to the be
reaved ones.
HYDE PARK
Miss Vera Lilley is visiting in Hard"
wick.
Frank Strong is chaperoning a fishing
party at Corey Pond.
Hugh Scofield is home Saxton's River
for the summer vacation.
Mr. and Mrs. Seguin of Charlotte are
visiting at Edward Godette's. '
Mrs. Clarence Sawyer was a visitor in
Hard wick Sunday and Monday.
James Eaton is attending the meeting
of the Masonic grand bodies at Bur
lington.
Miss Reta Nutting has gone to Con
necticut to spend a few weeks with
relatives.
Miss Hazel Fisk, who has just returned
from Florida, is stopping with her sister,
Mrs. Scribner.
Col. McFarland and wife have gone
to their cottage at Caspian Lake to
spend a few days.
Oscar and Preston Lilley have been
spending a few days with their Uncle
Ben at Bakersfield.
Misses Helen and Alene Sawyer of St.
Louis arrived in town today for a visit
at their grandfather's, Ool. Sawyer.
Mrs. F. E. Sawyer, who has been quite
ill, is somewhat better. Miss Landon, a
trained nurse from Burlington, is caring
for her.
Charles E. Savery has been " under the
weather" for several days, but is better
now. E. L. Noyes is acting as clerk at
present.
Bert Blake, who has been spending
some time here with his sister, Mrs.
Dutton, has gone to Sutton, where be
has employment.
The office of the Village Treasurer, B.
W. McFarland, will be opened from 7 to
8 o'clock the evenings of Wednesday and
Thursday, June 14 and 15, for the receipt
of water taxes.
The Hyde Park Garage on Church
street is now complete and ready for
business. They have an expert auto man
and with all modern equipments are
ready to do first-class work. See adr't.
Campbell Re-Union
The annual Campbell re-union will ba
held on Saturday, Juae 24th, at th
borne of Harvey Hyde at Centerville.
Flags! Flags!! Flags!!!
They are disappearing fast. Only a
few left, as this goes to press. If you
are planning to purchase one, harry.
Remember the days are going right
along too, and Fourth of July it most
here. The Big Flag we are offering yon
is 5x8 ft. fine quality, fast colors, and the
price is most reasonable, for with one
coupon, and 98 cts. this flag it yourt.
