VOL. LVII1- NO. 274
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population!
T "
5-MILE GERMAN LIE
1 FRANCE HIT HARD
British Capture Two Towns and First and Second Line
Trenches at Various Points
MADE A GAIN OF ONE MILE OVER FIVE MILE FRONT
The Germans Apparently Made Slight Resistance, Although
Their Positions Were Heavily Fortified! In the Transyl
vania Alps Region the Rumanians Have Been Compelled
to Yield Ground to the Austro-Hungarians Field Mar
shal Von Mackensen is Still Retreating in Dobrudja
Southeast of Monastir the Serbs Have Captured the Vill
age of Iven and Compelled the Enemy to Fall Back Near
ly Two Miles.
Once again the German line In
France has been hit hard. Starting an
offensive running from the southern
bank of the Ancre river northward
over a front of about five miles from
St. Pierre Divion to the north of Serre
the British have captured the towns
of Beaumont-Hamel and St. Pierre
Divion and first and second line
trenches at VRrious points.
Between 3,000 and 4,000 men were
made prisoners in the attack. The
Germans apparently offered slight re
sistance to their adversaries, although
their positions were extremely heavily
fortified. A maximum gain to a depth
of one mile over the five-mile front
was made by the British. Hand fight
ing continues north of Serre.
The new drive probably has as its
objective the straightening out of the
ISritish line northward from the re
gion of Le Sars across the Ancre and
the pushing forward by the British
left wing toward Achlet-le-Petit, the
junction point of the Arras-Bapaume
and Arras-Mlramauont railroads.
Except in the Rumanian and Mace
donian theatres there has been little
fighting of great importance on any
of the fronts. In the Transylvaninn
Alps region Bucharest admits that the
Rumanians in the Alt River sector
have been compelled to yield ground
to the Anstro-Hangarians, but asserts
that King Ferdinand's men have held
their own ngrhst attacks in the Com
puting district. ' Both Vienna and
Berlin record further advances for the
troops of the Teutonic allies all along
RESIGNATION ANNOUNCED OF
GEN. SIR SAM HUGHES
A Canadian Minister of Militia and
Defense Had Break With Premier
Ottawa, Ont., Nov. 13. General Sir
Sam Hughes has resigned as Canadian
minister of militia and defense. His
resignation was requested.
The break between General Hughes
and Premier Borden and other mem
bers of th Canadian government re
sulted fro differences over questions
of politry and details of administration.
Since the beginning of the war there
have been many such differences on
questions of military management but
until recently, it is said, they have
been adjusted generally by allowing
General Hughes to carry out his plans.
Lately the friction has increased and
adjustments have grown more diffi
cult. It !s understood there has been
a growing disposition on the part of
the premier and the cabinet to insist
upon their own plans as against those
of General Hughes.
One of the points over which a dif
ference arose was the supplying of
the Canadian forces with the British
army rifle. General Hughes, it is re
ported, advocated instead the use of a
Canadian weapon.
BULGER'S SENTENCE COMMUTED
TO LIFE IMPRISONMENT
Soldier of Fortune Who Killed a Den
ver Hotel Proprietor.
Denver, Colo., 'Nov. 13. The sentence
of ColoWnel A. C. Bulger, a soldier of
fortune, who was to have been exe
cuted this week for the murder of
Lloyd C. Nicodemus of Denver, was
commuted to life imprisonment, today,
by Governor George A. Carlson, on. the
recommendation of the state board of
pardons, which held Bulger to be in
tane. Bulger shot Nicodemus, a Denver
hotel proprietor, on May 8, 1914, af
ter a quarrel in the hotel where Bul
Ser maintained headquarters for re
sulting a regiment for service with
the United States troops, during one
of the crises with Mexico.
INSURANCE COMPANIES
TO CONTEST FIRE LOSS
n Structure Where Munition of War
Were Stored.
New York, Nov. 13. The Hartford
rire Insurance company and four other
tompanles today began suit in the su
preme court here against the Tennee
lee Copper company to determine
Krhethe a loss of 109,433.34 recently
luffered by that company through fire
n a trinitrotoluol plant is chargeable
igainst the insurance companies. The
plaintiffs allege that at the time the
nsurance policies were issued they
vers not intended to cover a shop or
ttructure of any cort where munitions
f war were made or stored.
IAYS DUTCH STEAMER
WAS CARRYING CONTRABAND
Batavia VI. Was Stopped by Germans
Off Mouth of River Thames.
Berlin, Nov. 13, (by wireless to Say
Wile) German sea forces attached to
She Flanders naval station on Novem
er 12 stopped the Dutch steamer Ba
te, vier VL off the mouth of the River
Thames, according to the Overseas
(Jews Agency. The steamship was
taken into port by the German war
thtpe. The Dutch vessel was carrying
treat quantities of contraband, the
jew agency adds.
this front, having taken the towns of
Diota and Arsuriler. to the north in
the Gyergyo Mountains and Candesti,
northwest of Campulung in Rumania.
In Dobrudja, according to Petro
grad, advices received by wireless at
Rome, the troops of Field Marshal van
Mackensen are still- in retreat and the
Russian have crossed the Danube
from the western bank and reached
two points south of Tchernavoda on
the eastern bank. Berlin asserts, how
ever, that the Teutonic allies have de
feated the Russians and Rumanians
who were coming down the western
bank of the river.
The Serbians southeast of Monastir
have scored another victory over the
Germans and Bulgars, having captured
the village of Iven, lying on the Cer
na River northeast of Polog, and
forced their antagonists to fall back
nearly two miles. About 1,000 men
were made prisoners in this fighting
and large numbers of suns and quan
tities of arms and ammunition were
captured, according to statements
from the Serbian and French war of
fices. On the Austro-Italian front quiet
prevails except for artillery duels. An
Austrian nerial bombardment of Wea
dova killed at least sixty persons, in
cluding women anj. children, says a
Rome dispatch" - ...mgw
A violent artillery ' Suel 1s still in
progress in the Narayuvka River re
gion of Gallcia and the Russians have
repelled strong Austro-German attacks
in the Carpathians.
ARTILLERY BATTERIES ARE
SHY OBSERVATION AIRCRAFT
Not One of the 73 Forts in Coast Ar
tillery Districts Has an Aeroplane
New York, Nov. 13. Not one of the
forty-five field artillery batteries and
the seventy-three forts in the Bix
coast artillery districts of the United
States army has an aercfplane, obser
vation balloon or dirigible, according
to a report of Alan R. Ha wley, presi
dent of the Aero Club of America,
made at the annual meeting of the
club here tonight.
The report suggests that the field
and coast artillery need 17 aero squad
rons, 127 kite balloons and six dirigi
bles. Others who presented reports in
cluded Rear Admiral Robert IX Peary,
Henry A. Wise Wood, Howard E. Cof
fin and Augustus Post.
President Hawley and all the other
officers were re-elected for the en
suing year.
It was resolved at the meeting to
urge upon President Wilson and con
gress the need for supplying the field
and coast artillery with air machines;
for making aeronautics part of the
curriculum at West Point and Annapo
lis; the appropriation of $1,500,000 for
the establishment of an aeriat coast
patrol and the providing of the coast
guard service with aeroplanes.
HUGHES' MINNESOTA LEAD
CUT DOWN TO 233
By Soldiers' Vote and a Net Gain of
44 in Sibley County.
St. Paul, Minn., Nov. 13. Hughes'
lead over Wilson tonight was cut down
ot 233 by added soldiers' vote and a
net gain of 44 over previous returns
from Sibley county. The latest count
is Wilson 178,759; Hughes 178,991.
The soldiers to date have favored
Wilson slightly, the difference in his
favor tonight standing at two 727 for
Wilson and 725 for Hughes.
Reports from the county auditors
reached the office of Secretary of State
Schmahl today but had little bearing
on the result. More are expected to
morrow and representatives cf the
democratic national committee will be
on hand until the state canvassing
board, which begin its duties officially
November 28, has finished its work.
GERMANY 18 TO SEND
ANOTHER NOTE TO NORWAY
To Impress Upon That Country Con
sequences of Opposition to Subma
. rine Policy.
London, Nov. 13., 9:17 pi m. Polli
cal circles in Berlin are pessimistic
regarding relations with Norway, ac
cording to an Exchange Telegraph des
patch from Amsterdam. It is said that
the Norwegian reply to Germany's re
ply note on the submarine question
is unsatisfactory on all points of prin
ciple and it is believed that Germany
will make another attempt to impress
upon Norway the consequences of in
sisting upon her present policy, which
is unfavorable to German submarines.
Movements of Steamships.
New York, Nov. 13. Sailed: steamer
Saxon ia. Liverpool.
Liverpool, Nov. It. Sailed: steamer
New York, New xork.
Liverpool, Nov. 12. Arrived: 12th,
steamer Philadelphia, New York.
Azores, Nor. 10. Arrived: steamer
La Touralne, Bordeaux for New York.
(for coal.) ' .
Kirkwall, Nov. 12. Sailed: steamer
Stockholm (from- Gothenburg). New
York., i .... .
Cabled Paragraphs
Two British Steamer 8nn -go?
ijonaon, jnov. xs, :bo p. - ti
announces that the B' v. . ata
Caterham and Mo" been
sunk. The crew of ' razan has
been landed, bat her - cain was held
prisoner.
, Emperor Francis Joseph Improving
Berlin, Nov. IS. The condition of
Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria,
who has been suffering from a slight
attack of catarrh, shows improvement
ad his physicians declare that his
health has been restored, according to
despatches from Vienna. "
Protest from Cardinal Mercier.
London, Nov. 13, 7.46 p. m. Cardi
nal Mercier, primate of Belgium, has
issued a protest to the civilized world
against the deportation of Belgians to
Germany for forced labor. The pro
test is dated November 7 and is sign
ed by Cardinal Mercier in behalf of
all the Belgian bishops, except . the
bishop of Bruges, with whom he was
unable to get in touch.
PAUL DANNER SAYS
ARABIA WAS NOT WARNED
Statement Issued by the Only Ameri
can Aboard the Steamer.
London, Nov. 13. 11.40 p. m. Paul
R. Danner, the only American on
board the British steamer Arabia,
which was sund by a submarine No
vember 6 in the Mediterranean, sends
The Associated Press the following
signed statement from Malta:
"I am an American citizen and was
a second class passenger on the Ara
bia, bound for Marseilles. At 11.20
on the morning of the sixth of Novem.
ber I was sitting on the port side of
the. after deck when a tremendous
shock to the ship occurred, immedi
ately followed by an explosion.
"There was absolutely no warning
whatever, not even one second. It
appears from the statements of cer
tain passengers who were on the
stat board side that immediately they
saw the periscope of a submarine ap
pear out of the water about 300 yards
distant on the starboara side of the
torpeio was fired.
'"it was only thanks to the good for
tune of a calm sea and that the boat
was floated evenly for a considerable
time that we were all saved. There
was certainly no warning of any char
acter." Paul R, Danner is a Harvard grad
uate who has been engaged in Y. M.
C. A. work in .India. He was return
ing to his home in Camoridge. Mass.
The Arabia, according to a state
ment isued by the British admiralty,
November 8, was sunk without warn
ing. All the 437 passengers and the
crew, with the exception of two en
gineers, were saved by vessels which
went to the rescue. The engineers
were killed by the explosion. The
Arabia was bound from Australia.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR SENDING-
RELIEF TO PEOPLE IN
SYRtA -
The Collier Caesar Scheduled to Leave
New York About Dec. 20.
Washington, Nov.. 13. Final ar
rangements for sending the collier
Caesar, the ."Christmas ship" , with
supplies for war sufferers in Syria
were completed today at conferenes
between Secretary of State ljansing.
Assistant Secretary Phillips, Secretary
of the Navy Daniels, Director Ernest
P. Bicknell of the Red Cross and
Former Ambassador Henry Morgen
thau and members of the Armenian
and Syrian relief committee of New
York. " The collier will arrive in New
York December 14 and is expected to
sail about the 20th due to reach Bei
rut, Syria, about a month later.
Members of the committee are dis
appointed because'the Caesar will car
ry considerable less-than originally es
timated. It was said at first that she
would be able to take about 4,000 tons,
but it develops that her maximum will
be about 2,500. Attempts were made
to secure a more commodious boat,
but none was available.
Over $400,000 has been collected as a
result of the war relief days, October
21 and 22, set apart by President Wil
son for the sufferers in Armenia and
Syria. Money is still coming in and
the total may pass the half million
mark. Only $250,0$00 was needed to
fill the Caesar.
The Caesar's supplies will go en
tirely to the Syrians who are suffering
under requisition of food by the Turks,
blockade by sea, car shortage by land
and destruction of foods by a terrible
locust plague. About 100,000 people are
Baid to be on the verge of starvation.
PRESIDENT WILSON IS
BACK IN WHITE HOUSE
Showed Anxiety Over Political Com
plexion of Next House.
Washington, Nov. 13. President
Wilson, back in the White House for
the first time since the campaign be
gan two months ago, plunged into
work today in an effort to clear his
desk of accumulated business. Taking
for granted that he had been re-elecj-.-ed
he asked no questions about elect
oral votes, but did display anxiety over
the political complextion of the next
house of representatives. Through an
interview with Secretary Lansing, the
president got' in touch with pressing
foreign problems, including the sub
marine, Mexican and British blockade
issues, and in a talk with Henry Mor
genthau, chairman of the finance com
mittee of the democratic national com
mittee of the democratic national
committee, he became conversant with
the latest developments in the political
situation.
State department officials make no
secret of their belief that dangerous
possibilities are presented by recent
developments in both the Mexican and
submarine questions. Secretary Lan
sing reviewed details with Mr. Wilson
today, but said no immediate action
was in prospect. Some development is
expected soon, however, at the American-Mexican
conference sitting at At
lantio City.
Officials in the confidence of the
president stated definitely today that
his re-election will mean no radical
changes in any of his policies.
.. OBITUARY.
Hy Davis.
Aurora, Ills., Nov. , Hy Davis,
supreme dictator of the Loyal Order
of Moose, is dead at his home in
Cleveland, Ohio, after an intestinal op
eration, according to word received
here today. Mr. Davis, who was 80
years old. leaves a. widow -and a daugh
ter. Mr. Davis wan president of the
uieveiana in re insurance company and
formerly was city prosecutor of Cleve
land and United States marshal far
northern Ohio. - . ...
JVf3rhiriprWfliQRivRn
1 llllljQ uu UIIUH
the Columbian
BUT CAPTAIN WAS TAKEN PRIS
ONER AND HELD SIX DAYS
ALL OF CREW RESCUED
Captain Patterson of British Steamer
Seatonia, Was a Captive Aboard the
U-49 at the Time She Torpedoed the
Steamer Columbia. "
Corunna. Spain, Nov.' 13, via Paris,
2.45 p. m. Captain Frederick Curtis
of the American steamer Columbian,
who arrived here with . the rescued
crew of this steamship, declared to a
representative of The Associated Press
today that he was a prisoner on boaftrd
the German submarine U-49 for six
days after the destruction of his ves
sel. All of the 109 members of the
Columbian's crew were saved, Captain
Curtis stated.
Crew Was Left in Lifeboats. .
Captain Curtis said the Columbian
was warned before she was tdrpedoed
and sunk by the U-49. The crew was
left in lifeboats, as the captain was
taken on board the submarine.
Heard the Guns.
Captain Arthur Patterson of the
British steamer Seatonia says that he
also was a prisoner on board the U-49
for eight days, during which time he
heard the guns of the submarine in
action and also heard distinctly the
explosion of the torpedo which he
learned later blew up the Norwegian
ship Balto, soon after which Captain
Yelugsen of the Norwegian ship For
dalen Joined him in the narrow prison
on board the submarine, where they
were Joined the following day by Cap
tain Curtis.
Stopped at Command.
"My ship, registered at New York,"
said Captain Curtis to the correspond
ent, "carried a cargo of about 9,000
tons and a crew of 309, all of whom
were saved. I stopped on the com
mand of the submarine, whose com
mander ordered me to abandon ship
with the crew immediately, which we
did without other baggage than two
satchels with documents and money.
Fired Two Torpedoes at Columbian.
"Submarine U-49 fired at once two
torpedoes at the Columbian, which im
mediately sank. The crew was left in
lifeboats, while I was taken on board
the submarine, which plunged immedi
ately after I was taken into the small
quartermaster's cabin, where I found
the captains of the Seatonia and the
Balto. After-me came Captiin Yelug
sen' -of the- Fordalen. The . cabin "was
tf?
malV It contained a Utile fold
ing '. table: a folding chair and three
bunks. . Everything was permeated
with the odor of benzine. There was
no communication with the exterior
and the cabin was absolutely dark
night and day.
Fed With Morsels of Black Bread.
"We were fed in the morning with a
few morsels of black bread, a cup of
coffee and a small portion of bad but
ter; at noon with a stew of canned
meat and soup, and at supper at 10
o'clock with coffee or tea and black
bread, with butter or marmalade. The
hours spent in this narrow prison were
very long and disagreeable."
The captain of the submarine, said
Captain Curtis, was about 36 years of
age, while his crew of 40 sailors were
all very young. All were attired in
clothing of glossy leather.
COAL CARS ARE TO BE
RETURNED TO THEIR LINES
All Large Railroads to Comply With
Demand of the I. C. Commission.
Louisville, Ky Nov. 13. Assurances
that they had . begun the return of all
foreign coal cars held on their lines to
the owning roads were received today
by Commissioner C. C. McChord, of
the Interstate Commerce Commission,
from virtually every large railroad in
the United States.
The return of such equipment was
demanded by Commissioner McChord
Saturday, following representations by
railroad men present at the hearings
that such a measure would provide the
quickest means of relieving the coal
shortage by which various sections of
the country have been suffering.
In addition to telegrams from the
individual roads announcing their ac
tion, which Commissioner McChord re
ceived today, the co-operation of the
eastern roads in returning all foreign
coal car equipment on their lines was
promised by Charles C. Paulding. B. I.
Spock and C. B. Heisserman, counsel,
respectively, for the New York Cen
tral, the New York, New Haven and
Hartford and the Pennsylvania Lines
west of PittsT rgh.
WILSON GAINING VOTES
IN CALIFORNIA RECOUNT
No Great Change to General Results
of Unofficial Canvass.
San Francisco, Nov. 13. Official re
count of the votes cast in last Tues
day's election began all over Califor
nia early today and tonight, with the
task swinging along rapidly, no re
ports had reached political head
quarters here which would tend to al
ter the general results of the unffi
cial canvass.
In San Francisco President Wilson's
lead was augmented by six votes with
about one-sixth of the precincts re
counted by the board of election com
misioners. The county was watched closely by
checkers, lawyers and expert account,
ants employed by both the republican
and democratic state organizations.
Unofficial reports from other coun
ties receiVbd at political headquarters
during the day regarding the president
recount showed in all cases small
gains for President Wilson.
INDUSTRIAL WORKERS
RELEASED FROM JAIL
No Charges Brought Against Them for
Battle at Everett, Wash.
Seattle, Wash., Nov. 18. Forty
three members of the Industrial Work
ers of the World, who were arrested on
the steamer Verona a week ago Sun
day after the return of that vessel from
Everett where seven men were killed
in a battle with EVerettydtizens, were
released from the SeatSfa city Jail. No
cahrges had been filed against them by
the authorities of Snohomish county
in which the right toolc place.
Railroad Strike
Again Looms Up
mm "
TROUBLE OVER APPLICATION OF
THE ADAMSON LAW
IN A DEADLOCK STAGE
Representatives of the Railroads and
the Four ' Brotherhoods Unable to
Agree Upon the Mileage System of
Compensation.
New York, Nov. 13. Danger of a na
tion-wide railroad strike, which was
believed to have been averted by the
passage of the Adamson eight hour
law, has not entirely disappeared, it
aeveiopea nere today when represen
tatives of the railroads and' the four
brotherhoods, comprising 400.000 em
ployes, failed to reach an agreement
as to the proper application of the
new law. The stumbling block, both
sides admitted, was the existing mile
age system of compensation.
Announcement of Deadlock.
The announcement - of the latest
deadlock between the railroads and
their employes came at the conclusion
of an all-day conference between the
National Conference Committee of the
railways and the brotherhood chiefs,
wnicn naa Deen arranged in Sep tern
ber.
Statement by Railroad Manager.
"We met," said Elisha Lee, chair
man of the railroad managers and the
conference, "for the purpose of ex
changing ideas on the application and
operation of the Adamson law. We
failed to reach an agreement and we
are not certain that another meeting
wiu take place."
Brotherhood's Viewpoint.
William G. Lee. president of the
Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen,
spokesman for the employes, in the
aosence oi a. 5. viarretson. or the ur
der of Railway Conductors, declared
in a statement that in the event of
evasion, by the railroads of the Adam
son law, summary action would be
taken by the brotherhoods. He said
that the strike order, which was di
rectly responsible for the law, was
still in effect and the brotherhoods
would not hesitate to enforce it if the
occasion warranted it.
To Test Constitutionality.
"The brotherhoods asked for this
conference," said Mr. Lee. "At the
morning- session we discussed the ap
plication of the law and found that
there was no basis upon which we
could possibly agree. Another setback,
besides the elirxunatipft-of the mileage
system, wasj-the tietermination of. the
railroads to contIntfetneir suits to de
termine the constitutionality of the
law."
. Trouble Over Mileage System.
The mileage system of compensa
tion, the basis of which is the number
of miles traversed by a train crew and
not the actual hours of work, is the
crux of the new problem that, a rail
road authority said, may result in the
development of a situation similar to
the one which . brought into being the
Adamson law.
Difference as to How Law Applies.
"Frankly," said Chairman Lee of
the conference committee in discuss
lng this phase of the situation, "the
trouble lies in the fact that neither the
railroads nor the men know definitely
how the law should be applied.
'We have our own ideas as to how
the law should be applied if at all, as
suits to test its validity are now pend
ing; while the brotherhoods have their
own ideas."
Another Conference Probable.
Chairman Lee added that he could
not predict the probable outcome of
the difficulty. He said, however, that
negotiations might be resumed by call
ing another, conference. This possi
hilitv wan Rtrencrth fnpH bv tVi an
nouncement of the rrot;herheod chiefs
tnat tney, with the exception of Pres
ident Lee of the trainmen's organiza
tion, proposed to remain here for sev
eral days.
President Lee left for his home in
Cleveland tonight. He said he intend
ed to Join his confreres Monday in
Washington, where they will go to at
tend the opening session of the New
lands investigating committee.
WANTS BATTLE CRUISER
TO BEAR NAME HAWAII
Former Queen Liliuokalani Sends Re
quest to Secretary Daniels.
Washington, Nov. 13. Former Queen
Liliuokalani of Hawaii has written
Secretary Daniels asking that the name
Hawaii be given one of the great bat
tle cruisers, bids for which will be re
ceived next month. Mr. Daniels said
today he would take the request un
der consideration. Indications are that
the cruisers will be given names of
famous ships of the American navy.
but it is possible that some vessel of
another type may be named in honor
of the island possessions.
GERMAN TORPEDO BOATS
ENTERED GULF OF FINLAND.
Effectively Shelled a Russian Naval
Base at Short Range.
Berlin, Nov. 13, via London, 2.04 p.
m. German torpedo boat forces on
Friday night entered the Gulf of Fin
land and effectively shelled the Rus
sian naval base of Baltic port, at short
range, according to an official state
ment issued today by the German ad
miralty. Baltic port Is near the entrance to
the Gulf of Finland, 38 miles west of
the Russian naval station of Reval.
The port is the terminus of the Baltic
railroad.
COLD WEATHER NOW
PREVAILS IN THE WEST.
Two Degrees Above Zero at North
Platte, Neb. 51 at Kansas City.
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 12. Kansas
City and the Missouri ' valley shivered
tonight in temperatures ranging from
2 degrees above at North Platte, Neb.,
to a reading- of 21 degrees above here,
according to the report of the weather
bureau. : -
Texas points also came in for un
seasonable temperatures. Fort Worth
reporting 28 degrees- and sleet, re
garded as uncommon for this time of
year. Amarillo, in the Panhandle re
gion, to the north, reported 12 degrees.
Condensed Telegrams
The battleship New York left the
Brookyn Navy Yard lor Norfolk, Va.
Exports from the Port of New York
last week were valued at $14,829,027.
Alfred Joseph Naquet, a noted
French chemist and politician, is dead.
Welter Milling Co. of Pmbuleiphia, at
loss ox fis.uuu. .
Lucrezia Bori, the Spanish Drima
donna, sailed for Bordeaux on the
French liner Espagne.
Harold Hubbard Home, of Buffalo.
was found shot to death in sorest
Park cemetery at Troy, N. Y.
an obstruction off Puerto Plata, Santo
Domingo, and lost her propellor.
Wlniltk mi nninn n a , Ra,4 Rani, hi .1
Edwin Condrup of Jersey City, was
tuiiea oy me aiscnarge or nis gun.
Fifteen lhAuund amnlnvM nf iv.
Elk Tannine- f!o. in Riiimvav
received an advance of 25 cents a day!
ftlaj. Gen. George Goethals will pass
to the retired list of the army on his
own application, dating from Nov. 16.
Direct COmmuniMtinn hAtwABn Tonnm
and Kfln TlVo nUYt hV Vlp.a.n nl...r.n
pay win De opened to the public Nov
1U.
Three men were killed and four se
Tiously injured by an explosion at the
piant or tne luastern Steel Co, at
rutisiuwn, jtsl.
JoseDh Tavlor nt Anhiii-v ParV isx
J- was killed bv a Jersev ncntrni
press train ai me west Jighth Street
auuuii, jsayonne.
An American war relio museum is
to be Ann rf thp ftmhipaa r w i
paredness Bazaar to be held in the
. - . . .. ,J 1 T 1 1
wtuiu vdiiiu .rctiace.
Demand was made upon Carranza
officials in Juarez for the release of
Benjamin Brahan, a scout for General
jonn j. versing in Mexico.
Samuel Giagay, a deckhand of the
steamboat Citv of Ktnmfnr -woo
drowned when he attempted to jump
10 x-ier du at MarKet street.
Emerson Had ley, room mate of
Charles E. Hughes' while at Columbia
University Law School, was found
ucau u.l nit, jiume ai bl XrSiUl.
Albert van Houten, Jr, son of the
t-ity .treasurer or lonKers, who has
Deen vice consul to tne American Em'
bassy in Berlin, has resigned.
Thirty college men, who had vol
unteered for service with the Ameri
can Ambulance Corps in France, sail
ed Bordeaux on the French Hner Es
pagne. , .
''arylaVid Democrats have started
a. -movement- to -no v eJa p tain Isaac E.
Emerson, of yachting fame, appointed
Secretary of the Navy in the next
uabinet.
The election expense statement of
vviinam a: jvicuombs, the unsuccess
ful Democratic candidate for 1
States Senator, recorded receipts and
expenses 01 xz,63s.
From Oct. 25 to Nov. 7 lac t-.
ident Wilson accepted the resignations
of fifty-one officers who were on duty
with various National Guard units on
tne -Mexican border.
The Cunard liner Carmania, which
has been used an an auxiliary cruiser
since the war began, will be returned
to passenger service between New
xorK and Liverpool.
Victor Carlstrom. ' wbn h
made two new records, -flying from
mcago 10 new lorn, was awarded the
Curtiss flying trophy for 1916 and the
attuiupcinyiiis i,uuu casn prize.
Fifteen hundred chinaware makers
employed in potteries of Trenton,
Wheeling and New Castle and Beaver
Falls, Pa., are to get an increase in
wages from eight to 10 per cent.
George Colon, a contractor of New
York, reported to Police Headquarters
that six sticks of dynamite had been
stolen from a powder magazine at
14th Street and Edgecomb Avenue.
A Lawrence Lowell, president of
Harvard University, was elected pres
ident of the New England Association
of Colleges and Secondary Schools at
the closing session of its convention.
The Nicaraguan Minister of Foreign
Affairs telegraphed to the Costa Ittt-'n
Foreign Office that a plot was dis
covered in Costa Rica to assassinate
Emiliano Chamarro, the President elect
of Nacaragua.
The Cunard line steamer Carpathia,
which left Liverpool with 200 cabin and
steerage passengers aboard, went
aground on the south .side of the Am
brose Channel, about a mile east of
Quarantine Station.
Four thousand mot or men and con
ductors of the Bay State State Rail
way Co. will receive an increase in
pay of four cents an hour. The com
pany operates in eastern Massachu
setts and southern New Hampshire.
Julius Roeenwald of Chicago, one of
the trustees of the University of Chi
cago, announced here today that he
had given $500,000 toward the $3,300,
000 fund which that university "is to
raise toward an $8,000,000 endowment
for the establishment of a new medi
cal school.
The Navy Department will treat the
bluejackets of the American fleet to a
sightseeing visit to the Panama Car.al
The battleship force, the cruiser force,
the active destroyers and the mine and
fleet exercises between March 17 and
training force will make a five day
visit to the canal during the period of
fleet exercises between March 17 and
26.
John Carbino was shot and possibly
fatally injured last night by Raphael
Comante, who remonstrated when
Carbino started to carry away lumber
from material for a bonfire in connec
tion with a democratic celebration at
Torrington, Conn. The two quarrelled
for some time before Comante drew a
revolver and- fired. The shot struck
Carbino in the abdomen.
An Amsterdam despatch to the
Times says that the Belgian and Brit
ish passengers on the Dutch mail
steamer Kningin Regentes, recently
seized by a German submarine, have
beep sent to prison in Bruges. The
Belgian women and children were re
leased and allowed to return to their
nomea.
SERIOUS SHORTAGE
' - " - -
On November 1 There Were
Required to Transport Shipments
PLANS BEING CONSIDERED TO SOLVE PROBLEM
According to a Summary Made
sociation There Was a Surplusage af About 57,600 Cars
as Recent as June 1 The Number of Freight Cart
Owned by American Railroads Increased From 1,991,557
on July 1, 1907, to 2,447,178 on July 1,1916, According
to the Railway Association's Statistics.
New York, Nov. 13. The net short
age of freight cars on American sail
roads on Nov. 1 was the largest in
nearly ten years, according to a sum
mary of surpluses and shortages made
public here today by the American
Railway Association. At its semi-annual
meeting here on Wednesday the
association will consider comprehen
sive plans which, prepared by execu
tive and , other committees meeting
here tomorrow, will aim to solve the
country's car shortage problems.
On November 1, according to the as
sociation's statistics, there were 108,
010 fewer cars than required to trans
port shipments. Not before since Feb.
6, 1907, has the shortage run higher
TO CHANGE COMMANDERS
IN NORTHEASTERN MEXICO.
General Francisco Murguia to Succeed
General Jacinto B. Trevino.
El Paso, Tex., Nov. 13. General
Francisco Murguia is to succeed Gen
eral Jacinto 'E. Trevino as commander
of the northeastern military zone as
soon as he arrives in Chihuahua City
from the south with his reorganized
division. Muguria is a general of
equal rank with General Trevino, who,
it is understood, has asked to be re
lieved of his command at Chihuahua
for personal reasons.
The announcement of General Mur
guia's appointment as commander of
the northeastern military zone was
made here today from a source which
is considered absolutely reliable. Gen
eral Trevino is expected to return to
his former headquarters at Monterey,
although he may come to the border
here for a visit with 'Mrs. Trevino. No
reason i given for -General -Trevino's
transfer, but it is understood that the
failure to overcome the growing Villa
movement is probably 'responsible for
the change in commanders at Chihua
hua City.
General Murguia. is now advancing
from Torreon as a base toward Chi
huahua City with a large force of
troops and is expected to arrive there
within the next two days. Viila troops
are" again concentrating in the vicinity
of Santa Ysabel, west of Chihuahua
City, according ' to reports received
here by American government agents.
The report said the bandits were com
ing from the direction of Satevo, and
military men here predicted an attack
upon Chihuahua soon by Villa's entire
command. Railroad and telegraph lines
south of Chihuahua City, which were
cut by the Villa bandits, have been
repaired.
RECALL OF AMERICAN
TROOPS FROM MEXICO
Agreement May be Reached Before the
Close of the Week.
Atlantic City. N. J.. Nov. 13. After
the conference today of the Mexican
American joint commission, it was in
timated that an agreement providing
for the withdrawal of the American
punitive expedition might be reached
before the close of the week.
For sven hours the commissioners
studied the various problems involved
in a settlement of the international
difficulties and the greater part of the
time was devoted to an effort to get
into concrete form that part of the
general agreement referring to the
withdrawal of the American troops. .
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mex
ican commission, displayed at the close
of the forenoon session the greatest
optimism he has yet shown when he
said he believed a settlement would be
reached within a few days.
In the event of an agreement being
formed for the withdrawal of the
American troops it probably will not
stipulate that they be brought out of
Mexico immediately but that they be
recalled within a reasonable time, per
haps within sixty or ninety days. It
is believed that the withdrawal at any
time will be made subject to conditions
at that time.
ALL BRITISH STEAMERS
HAVE BEEN REQUISITIONED
Freight Room On Them Has Been
Withdrawn From the Market.
Galveston, Texas, Nov. 13. All
freight room on British liners and
tramp steamers was withdrawn from
the market this morning as the re
sult, it was said, of an admiralty order
which virtually requisitions all Brit
ish tonnage for carrying grain and
metals. This leaves only neutral
steamers in the market for cargo and
freight rates are advancing accord
ingly. -
Heretofore all British steamors have
been required to carry one-third grain
or foodstuffs and approximately fifty
per cent, metals. The new admiralty
order requires steamers to carry fifty
per cent grain. The grain and metals
requirements, therefore will load steam
ers to their marks.
Shipping men here declare the order
affects all United States ports.
SHOT AND KILLED HIS
DAUGHTER-IN-LAW AND SON.
Frank E. Deon of Dudley, Macs, Then
Attempted Suicide
Dudley, Mass., Nov. 13. Frank - E.
Deon, town counsel and tax collector
of Dudley,- shot and killed his daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Robert Deon, and his
son, Robert Deon, and ten attempted
suicide- today. Physicians said neither
father nor son could live. - Young: Deon
in a lucid moment told Jolice officers
that his father had been drinking.
OF FREIGHT GARS
'"' - ... .
108,000 Fewer Cars Than
by the American RaUway As
than 100,000 cars; on that date it wu
137,847. On the other hand, the sur
phisage was. in April of 1908. as high
as 413,338 and at no time during that
year were fewer than 100,000' cars idle.
As recently as June 1 there waa a
surplusage of more than 57.600 cars,
but the situation since has chanced
rapidly. On July 1 the surplusage was
about 62,200 and on August 1 It was
9,72. One month later there waa a
shortage of 19,873, with increased by
October 1 to 60,697.
The number of freight cars owned
by American railroads increased from
1,991,697 on July 1, 1907, to 2,447,178
uii juiy x, iio, according to the
ciation's statistics.
ASKS FOR HIGHER STANDARD
OF CHAPLAINS IN ARMY
Conditions Among Troops on Border
Criticised in Meeting of Clergymen '
Now York, Nov. 13. Conditions
among the merican troops on the Mex
ican border were the subject of criti
cism in a meeting of clergymen which
preceded the opening of the annual
meeting of the board of foreign mis
sions of the Methodist Episcopal
church here today. Dr. S. Paxkes
Cadman, pastor of the Central Con
gregational church of Brooklyn, who
went to the border as chaplain of the
Twenty-third New York regiment,
said:
"Conditions are such now that a
gentleman of my calling, I believe,
would be unwilling to take a chaplain's
position. There should be a higher
standard of chaplains in the army and -a
weekly attendance at divine service
by soldiers should be a matter of dis
cipline and army regulations.' -
Dr. Cadman declared that If we
were doing in this country what Can
ada Is doing- at this moment along'
military lines we would have ready at
any time 11,000,000 men to guard our
borders, but unfortunately we have
let individualism become so prominent
a feature of our existence, that we still
have some way to go in order to fully
realive our nationalism." .
Gifts from the late Mrs. D. Wlllard
James of this city aggregating $260,
000,000 for the retired missionary fund
and special work were announced at
the board's meeting.
CAPTAIN BRITISH STEAMER .
ROWAN MORE WA8 KILLED
When British Destroyer Shelled Sub
marine on Which He Was a Prisoner.
Baltimore, Nov. 13. According to
information received by the Johnston
line of this city. Captain Phelan of
the British steamer Rowanmore waa
killed when a British destroyer shelled
the German submarine on which he
was taken as a prisoner after the sink
ing pf his vessel last month.
The Johnston line also received In
formation that Capatin John Mitchell
of the Donaldson line steamer Cabotla
and Captaia John Browne of the
steamer Marina, both of which were
sunk by submarines, lost their lives,
but in what manner was not stated.
Despatches containing this informa
tion came from Liverpool. Previous
Berlin despatches were to the effect
that the Rowanmore tried to escape the
attack of the submarine and the crew
took to the boats, leaving Captain
Phelan to his fate. It was then that
he was made prisoner on the German
submarine.
Cable despatches also have stated
that Captain Browne of the Marina
was drowned when he Jumped from
the deck of his vessel, miEsed the
small boat and fell into the sea, after
the Marina was torpedoed- 4
The Cabotla was sunk Oct. 23. Ac
cording to lasr. cabled reports the two
boats in which the captain and crew
took refuge are missing.
MILK CONTROVERSY IN
NEW ENGLAND SETTLED
Concessions Offered by the Dealer
Have Been Accepted by Producer.
Boston, Nov. 13. The controversy
over the wholesale price of milk In the
local market, which had caused many
farmers throughout New England to
refuse to ship their product to Boston -dealers
for the past six weeks, was
regarded as settled today. The direc
tors of the New England Milk Pro
ducers association, who had recom
mended withdrawal of milk from this
city until their price was met, sent to
the farmers a letter based on a Tot
taken last night that they accept the
concessions offered by the dealer.'
These are saod to represent a minimum
advance of four cents on each eight
and one-half quart can. At the same
time a call was issued for a confer
ence of all New England dairy Inter
est to be held at Springfield Nov. SS
to form a general organization.
EARLY DEPARTURE OF THE
DEUTSOHLAND INDICATED
Has a Total Supply of 125 Ton f
Fuel Oil Aboard.
New London, Conn, Nov. 19. Indi
cations pointed strongly tonight to the
early departure of the German mar
chant submarine Deutschland for Bre
men. Twenty-five tons of fuel oil ar
rived late today and was pumped Into
the snbmersible's tanks at once, mak
ing a total supply of 126 tons. The
craft was partly provisioned today and
merchants have orders to deliver fresh
meats tomorrow. Captain Koenlg vis
ited the government submarine baa
and Inspected charts showing , tidal
conditions. k .-
