IN4MW r of Ow beert mis of but 6 b:h
..-. - R -E AJ . i. -.... -
eed e e, . - - ,a .. s-...
tee news of te d 6m sh~ ds H.o.eta . ..... .. . b .
news of t he day.g0 a s
NO. 3679. WATHER: RN. WASHINGTON. D. C.. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14. 1916.. ONE CET
SHOP-EARLY CAR
VISITS SUBURBS
Retail Merchants Trolley to
Alxandria and Rockville.
~4
Trade boostifig by trolley was tried for
the first time in the United States yes
terday by the Retail Merchants' Asso
clatis In co-operation with the WashiW
ton Railway & Electric Company and it
proved a distinct success.
A trolley trip on the new parlor car,
Columbia, the use of which was made
possible through the courtesy of Presi
dent Clarence P. King, was one of the
features of the inauguration of the "Shop
Early for Christmas" movement in the
National Capital. It was preceded by a
;uncheon meeting of the "Shop Early for
Christmas" committee at the Commer
cial Club.
Among many other things the booster
trip demonstrated to the entire satisfac
tion of the board of governors of the
Retail Merchants' Associatin, headed by
President R. P. Andrews. that Washing
ton Is getting its natural and logical
share of the trade in the territory con
tiguous to Washington.
Alezandria Akia.
"Alexandria Is the logical workshop of
Washington and we feel as close akin tp
the city as if we were legally a part of
it." sid R. E. Knight. past president of
the Retail Merchants' Association of
Alexandria, Va., in welcoming the boost
ors to that city.
"I want to thank the Retail Merchants'
Association for the interest that has been
displayed in making Alexandria the site
of the proposed armor plant. It will be
a fifty-fifty matter between this city and
' ashington. Very "trong influences are
at work to secure this armor plant for
Alexandria and I fell sure that the co
tperation of you husiness men will make#
this a reality. You already enjoy 3: per
cent of the entire trade of this city. This
is not an idle observation, but is based
on actual figures. The establishment of
the armor plant between Alexandria and
Washington will prove of vast benefit to
t' Nati'nil Capital. You must realize
that an excellent trolley system has
brought our cities within thirty minutes
of one another, and good roads make the
I r, but twenty minutes by automobile."
Nfr. Knight assured his hearers that the
--y of Alexandria would always give
them a warm welcome.
President R. P. Andrews. of the Retail
Merchants' Association, responded to the
.ndress of welcome of Mr. Knight and
assured him that the welfare of Alex
andria is akin to the desires of the busi
ness men of Washington.
it okvjtle. Md.. was the next point of
trawl for the "Shop Early for Christ
ma,' boo-stersm. who attracted a great
"eal of ;-ttentiont with their "Shop Early"
'ards as they traveled through Virginia,
the Oity of Washington and on out to
the metropolis of Montgomery -County.
Likes Shop Early Ides.
'Shop Flarly for Christams' ise E1y
iHea. declared Mayor Lee Offntt, and
his %iew was echoed by Judge Edward C.
P'eter. of the Circuit Court of Montgom
ery County. who warmly greeted the
boosters and assured them that the peo
pie of Montgomery County and the City
,if Rockville were doing all of their buy
ing in the National Capital.
"No doubt the citizens of Montgomery
County will do more buying than ever
* this fall." said Judge Peter. "Conditions
are wonderfully prosperous in this sec
tion and we naturally look upon Wash
ington as the one great city to visit. The
next twenty-five years will see a succes
sion of villages between Washington and
Rockville that will. in effect, make this
.ity a part of the National Capital."
The novelty of the trolley booster trip
nppealed mightily to the business men
who took part. The start was made from
Ninth and G street at ' o'clock, directly
after the "official photograph" had been
taken. The remade parlor car. Columbia.
was a revel'ition. It is entirely Pul
manesque in all of its appointments and
nittracted general attention on its travels.
The car will be put to trade boosting
purposes again this afternoon, when the
governors of the Retail. Merchants' Asso
Sflon will assemble at Ninth and G
streets at 3:45 for a trip to Laurel. Md..
end points en route. Dinner will be served
the boosters at Laurel.
The "Shop Early for Christmas" com
mittee of the association not only made
plans for the merchants' observation of
the Christmas trade slogan, but listened
with interest to the plans of Postmaster
Merritt 0. Chance, who assured the com
A mittee of his Intention to co-operate in
the plans of the committee for forward
ing Christmas trade.
Meet at Lumehee.
Chairman T. C. Dulin presided at this
meeting, which was held in connoetion
with a luncheon at the Commercial Club.
The "4hop Early for Christmas" com
mittee of the Retail Merchants' Aseocia
tion consists of the following: T. C.
Dulln, chairman; C. P. Columbus, secre
tary: George S. DeNeale, A. Lisner, Sam
uel Hart. Harold H. Levi, Julius Golden
berg, Edwin Hahn and George W. Spicer.
Postmaster Chance and the Retail
Merchants' Association will co-operate in
all of the publicity covering the "Early
Shopping and Mailing" movement. This
will include a serlee of cards to be left at
every house in Washington adviNing the
public of the necessity of meeting their
shopping and mailing needs early and
giving first hand information as to the
points throughout the country that can
be reached by mall in time for Christmas.
The merchants' "Shop Early for Christ
mas" committee voted to call upon the
1'usiness houses of Washington to include
"Shop Early" slogans in their advertie
ing from now until Chrbmasa "mop
Early and Mall Eariy" cards will be dis
trib ted to all of the business house, of
W n andboth the Washington
Raflway and Electric and Capital Trac
Stion Railway companies will he asked to
run "Shop Early and Mail Early" signs
on their dashboards.
The following representation of the
hoard of governors of the Retail 'Merch
ants' Association participated in the trol
ley booster:
President R. P. Andrews. Vice President
N. A. Leese, Secretary Charles S. Colum
bus, Treasurer E. C. Graham, General
Counsel M. D. Roeenberg, George Top
ham,. George E. Hebbard and J. C. Par
ker. W. F. Demnent, supeltamnt of
trafe, and I. B, Sii publicity agent
of tha & M ed Electrie
Wheeling, W. Va., Nov. 12.-Recunt et
the Presidential 'ote in a nuinber of the
couties af West Virginia hes been de
fied nd winl start next week. On the
face et the reun Charles E. Hughee
carrie the Slate by more tha 3,UL
Two hm e thirty-twe votes have
bemsenteem he (Me Ossety.
p
COMPROMISE IN
I BORDER WRANGLE
Withdrawal of Troops From
Mexico Named as Condition.
(Dy the Internatisai News Servles.)
:Atlantic City. Nov. 23.-A compromise
plan was decided upon today by the
and American commissioners
d to the border wrangle.
In many particulars, the American
delegates are said to have surrendered
to the Mexicans. It was admitted to
night by the Washington government
representatives, that an agreement to
now being put Into writing dealing solely
with the border.
1r means a vital recession from the
oI I American contention that peace
rests largely upon certain social and
economic reforms which the United
States expects Carranza to guarantee.
The provisions of today's tentative agree
ment are:
Withdrawal of the American troops
from Mexico within a certain time on
condition that Carransa during that
period conquer Villa and establish a
stable government south of the Rio
Grande.
Patrolling of the border by Mexican
troops to prevent a recurrence of raids
Into American territory.
Renunciation by Carransa of his
original contention that the presence
of American -troops in Mexico Is ia
violation of Mexico's territorial rights.
I t wax predicted that this border
agreemeut will be completed this
week. Mexico's internal problems will
be considered later. The decree Im
posing confiscatory taxes upon Ameri
can mining properties will not become
effective until January 14.
Senor Cabrera, head of the Mexican
commission, went to Philadelphia to
night to confer with Rafael Nieto, his
assistant.
RUSSIA WILL FLOAT
iREAT BOND ISSUE
Obligations Totaling $i.0M.000.000
Ready for Market.
(y the Iaternatinal News Serviee.)
New York, Nov. 12.-Banking circles
tonight displayed much interest in ad
vices from Petrograd. announcing the au
thorization of the Russian finance min
ister by an Imperial ukase to issue bonds
totaling 2,000.000,000 roubles (about $1,000.
00O,0). , the bonds to be disposed of
abroad.
Ptominent Wanl Street bankers stated
that the issue will lay the foundation of
futpre borrowing by the Russian govern
mxnt In this country, to be used to repay
thi English government for money qd
vanced to pay for munitions and other
supplies bought here by Russia and for
any other financing the Rusiaan govern
ment may try to put through In the fu
ture.
It was learned that official anrounce
ment of the Issue will give authority for
the closing here of negotiations for the
$50,000,000 unsecured loan announced last 3
week and also for another $50,000,000 to
which special arrangements in the na
ture of acceptances, et., attach, for the
purchase here of cars and locomotives
for the Russian state railways.
Part of Russia's big gold reserve in
London is expected here this week, ac
cording to cables from Zurich, Switzer
land. At the offices of J. P. Morgan &
Company today it was admitted that such
a gold shipment is "a possibility." The
amount of Russian gold In London is put
at more than $11,000.000.
HAIi'S TROOPS LAND
TWO TOWNS IN RUSH
Terrific British Smash Nets 3,300 Pris
oners Near the Ancre.
(By the Internatienal News service.)
London, Nov. 1--As if to disprove, in I
the language of blood, iron and steel, 1
allusions to lack of British co-operation.
raised by certain influential voices In the
French press, the troops of Gen. Sir
Douglas Haig early today hauled out for
a terrific surprise blow at the German
front on both sides of the Ancre Brook.
In a thick mist, long before the dawn,
the British executed their sudden thrust.
When dark settled the fighting still raged
with full fury. But the initial momentum
of the British attack had struck home
and the Germans battled vainly to regain
the lost ground. Their front was smash
ed wide open on a front of five miles,
astride the Ancre. to a depth of dbout
one mile, and the end of the first onrush
saw the British In possession of two 1
powerfully fortified villages. Beaumont
Hamel and St. Pierre Division. More
than 3,300 prisoners were taken by the
British.
The British success holds menace to
the stronghold of Miramont, on the Al
bert-Arras Railway, Sir Douglas' men
now threatening to envelop this point.
Earlier In the day the British. using
os, ratded German trenches opposite
Rans and penetrated pthers southeast of
Armentieres
IAR-WJI T.42JZ A&3
WILL KIN WMSHTNGTON
Raincoats, 1'ubber's and umbrellas will
be In order today and overcoats, heavy
under'wma and gloves are appropriate for
tomorrow, aseern to weather predic
tiens made last night by Forecaster
Blowie.
"We are in for the first cold spell of
the e.asem." said Mr. Bowle, who is paId
to know. "but there will he no snow. To
night the wind will shift to the north-.
west and it will bring chis with It, but
no see. The snow will he confined to
Western Marylashd, West Virginia and In-'
terior Pennsylvania. It will net reach thec
"Almnost every State east of the wR. ie
is shivering under a cold Wave. On the
Great Lakes they are undergoing the
SblIssard of 1516."
GermaR Vessels Iank.
PetrogradL N~ov. L-**A majority of I
German vessels which took pat in ali
bombardmnent In the Guof P inland Pr-. 14
day were suk " itw=p esmba.- j
OPEN HER UP, POP!
4-'
X Z.
~ " ;'...- ..TO Tg E.
..... .....
....... .4 . ....
[AMMANY NAMES TERNS" Fran Josef's Heat HUGHES NOT WILLING
FOR BAINQ WILSON Regained, say Dotor- TO ADMIT HIS DEFEAT
#B ateruntsesmall Xe04o ss'e.~)-r
5residiat Most Kep Out of May'oralty Bria n ( S w Cheered by Rumor of 7.000wY..
Campaign and Appointees. Nov. 13.-Emperor Frans Josef of Blunder in California Count.
Must Please, Austria-Hungary has been ailing
for some days from a slight ca- toy the Interustienal News Sevice.)
Bytarrh. New Yrk. Nov. e t-Ct NrNes te Hughes
NoY ok t ow. Iat &ua Irn beew knownC. The Emperor Is able to continue again declined today to Offer President
New York, Nov. 13.-It became known
oday Tammany Hall will not use its his daily work am usual a re- Wlson congratulations on his re-ee
alance of power In Congress against celvea the regular daily reports. tion.
'resident Wilson unless: He was reported to have been about to
First-The Wilson administration falls do so when National Chainan Willcox
o fulfill its pledge not to interfere In that the aged monarch's condition Intervened with a protest that he await
he mayoralty campaign of 1917. already in improved, and his the verv latest returns from an investi
Second-Secretary of the Treasury Mc- Physicians ar. quoted an saying gation of the returns in California and
doo and Postmaster General Burleson
erRist In naming Federal officeholderthat Mr. Hughes had all
bnoxlous to the organization._________________
This sttementoismaE r a t t the a but dictated his good wishes to the Presi
s dent when rumor was circulated that an
hority of one of the most influential Kc error of 7.000 evd been discovered in the
louse of Representateves leaders from inGoldn State figures. which. If corrected.
Cew York. GIIAVE LOUsAapt wouhad clinch the State's thirteen electoral
Th ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ared wisa lmproved andd his oteRpbicnnmne.Tee
we are not asking and never have p aith the twelve from Minnesota, it was
.sked any offices front the President. We hA ALLEGE SLAYER urged, might insure his election.
ion t Care who fills them. What we re- Chairman Willcox. who had been on the
ent to the butting in of McAdoo, To- Job, all day awaiting advice. and wiring
nulty and other Wilson onts on our Instructions to national comitteemen
DCal nominations and elections, rsctn tonyTlso evn and State chairmen to get every vote
'oue President backed Mitchel, anti- Wife just Prior to Her Murder, possible, would not say whether or not he
ammany. for mayor In d: He put up believed that a 7.000-vote blunder hsd
ranklin Roosevelt for United States
lenator against James W. Gerard in ( y the Iteraatiemal News Seviee.) "ecret es In Rlynold receid
sn The President must quit this." St. Joseph, Mo.. Nov. 1we-Protesting his a telephone message that an error had
O l -innocence. Oscar D. McDaniel. Prosecut- been detected In California where Mr.
nOYA nOW dZI, trg attorney Of Buchanan County, went Hughes wan given only r u0 Instead o
on trial today for the murder of his wIfep 7,0 votes. If that IS the cane, he would
Harriet Moss McDanieL the victim of a carry the Stata"
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Nov. I&.- mysterious assassin In her home.I
has become a came of brother againt he first attempt to reach a verdict was
rother since Rumania entered the war. halted three weeks ago when the pros
heOY rn e ofHhnolERn. a rohe atonyoIuhnnCutwn
f the King of Rumania, ighting with ecution charged it was "being lobbed" in
he Germans i the jury. At the opening of the court to- Grand Junction. Col.. Nov. 12-Scores
The Overseas News Agency today re- day the prosecution moved that the sher- of men today are searchi in bitter cold
orted an Incident which occurred dur- Iff be disqualified from having anything weather for Ellsworth Kolbe. explorer.
ng a dinner at the headquarters of the to do with the jury.uha en n of h n
linth army. The psrfce made a speech McDaniel, beaten for re-election at the
n which he declared that hid presence in polls last Tuesday, displayed rare cheer- olson River.
he German army could be accepted as fulness when he entered court today. He Kolbe faied in two Previous attempts
in expression of Germanys indignation made the following statement at a meet- to make the sixteen-mile passage and
,gainst Ruanins's breach of faith. Ing called at his request to hear his side Bert Loher. his companlon sow in in a
of the case: hospital suffering from Injuries received
LOVEI loved this little girl from the time In their at try.
wvz V = STRT RA M. 'et her, when she was only I&- bte said. The gorge to 3.200 feet deep and known
"On the night of the murder. jUly 14. 1 to be not more than four feet' wide at
Chicago, Nov. 13.-Military authorities kissed her am I left to attend a lodge certain place whore the torrent races
it Fort Sheridan today are investigating meeting-a kiss rich with love. At mid- through at express train speed.
rouble between members of the First night I came home to find her de Then
Ellinols Cavalry and residents of High- In the midst of my hunt foe the an
wood, a suburb, resulting In a pitched sisin. I was arrested. not because I was
attle In which one man seriuslY guilty but as part of a political plot to
njured and a dosen others Were beaten. cause my downfal. Philadelphia. Nov. 12-Discouraged and
Sentinels of the cavalrymen were post- I despondent over the re-electiom of presi
.d about the village early today while 'dent Wilson. the European War and other
mompanies searched the town for a band events which he believed retarded the
)f youths who attacked and beat two progress of Socialism. Frederick Besse, 6D
guardsmen following their visit to young Newport, R. L. Nov. -ears of age. today shot and killed hin
women of the town. appeared this afternoo t e o self at his home in this city.
treehill Coat- Gar St-atc . -- Hsbd a rmae ae n m
ENVOY HINTS AT PEACE MOVE., ainn eot httec~twsapinewt i ihs
VIenna, Nov. 1I.-That the re-election sxmlsfo on uih
if President Wilson may lead to the pro- Sprnedn ebr nwe i oa oietdy
>oaal of. conditions for world peace is teScn os ur itit net
ntimated in an Interview with Fredericued h eotadrcie nom: BO ~ 11CBNT
7. Pennield, American Ambassador to t~ta h eslwsfyn h mn
Austria, which has just been printed IncaflgshwnNo suha re- NwOlas. a.Nv.I-hn M
,he Neuwe Frle Press.nsbaie lsmred esrnsPre.Lusin ulM elae n
Mr. Penfleld calls the re-election of Mr.frmtehsatNwL dohaebe tePogeivluts maefr'Vc
Wilson "not only a wictory for' the United oeaigi lc ~adPitJdt rsdn tteeeto atTedy
Itates but for civilisation and the whole wtr.frsm ~e sbigboe nDmai ice o
"Iw loeaths. lItt.e Nifov. the-I tim PakrhsbeIore o h lc
Petrorad.Nov. 2.-ARussin u ma- Gordo, then "Crre ationy of,"he said. oiinasto eorai entr
In"nteB kSahsdsrydaOns re tghtkof temder, Jul an nMhITxsSeaos
kiss tasipada conr n edn victry in efight ant wintde EA 5f~H
lal tatmenttody. I futherrep nig'1ht SIprme out gad her a.e
hatatack b Tukih slder.Inthecin for ais receiver n for t cmanyCs- o Nv LGvmc toea
anoa (Ameni) wer replsed opain, thea farrds, heue Iac wa s tdybgnsaci alrira
.eetsltyebu eens head, ofn pltca plotht y fCicg o rofo hre
Denver. 'Cl., Nov. i "Nevepottes R.fI., Nov li-Afr aysprolingtharineela
matchedefromithefternoon whenethe electoon
inchfoeimuvet' 056 Jaes C flg GreeLndoll Nov.t G2-Uardstispatch wee5ed0,Inode ooepo- fo
lathlanencetedy ws ea~inte esionin reports th atkng therf was an urihpotcl rtf.wt
Geiilsna ntep~m q ermans seashaine This satio ishih only v~a ~
canda, hoin No, suha -ei
ASSAULTS NURSE
WITH BIG STONE
Woman Found Sens&= on
Street-Police Search City.
Brutally assuted by an unidentifed
n, on her way to attend a patient, Mrs.
Anam 1. bchear, a trained nurse, was
picked up at Connecticut avenue and
Kalerama road last night in an uncon
saious and apparently dying condition
and was carried to the home of Ros
Thompson, at 2121 Katorama road north
west.
A physician was sumnmoned, but It was
several hours before the woman regained
Consciousness.
LAst night, a detail of nearly twenty
detectives had been assigned to the case
and the entire pollee and detective force
of the District Is scouring the city In an
attempt to catch the assaIlant.
Mrs. Schear is 39 years old and lives
at Mi2 R street northwest. She told the
pottee she was a widow and had been
emplbyed as night nurse to Ross Thomp
eon, a local real estate broker.
She was on the way to the house frem
Connecticut avenue and Columbia mad.
where she had alighted from a car, when
a man who had been walking behind her
struck her in the back of the head with
a cobble stone.
the told the police she had come up
Connecticut avenue from the car line and
had noticed no one until she turned Into
Kalorama road near the Dresden apart
ment house. There, she said. she noticed
a man walking behind her wearing a
blue cap. She had no warning of the at
tack until she felt the blow.
Detective Vermillion discovered In the
grass near the scene of the attack the
weapon used by the smnallant. A heavy
sandstone. more than three inches in di
ameter through its shortest dimension.
was wrapper in an old cleaning cloth.
Additional detectives were assigned to
the case as fast as they became available
up to midnight. Major of Police Pulmann
directed that every effort be made to
apprehend the assailant and remained at
headquarters In touch with the case until
long after 1 o'clock this morning.
iERMANS TAKE THREE
TONS IN BIg DRIVE
Gen. Falkenhayn Pushes Vigorous Of
fensive Against Rumania.
48y the laternstienal News Serviee.0
Londor.. Nov. 13-4Gen. von Falken
hayn's campaign against Rmnias has en
tered a new phase. It will be known.
military experts here predict, an the "bat
tIe of Campuitng."
The battle is in full swing. It was
ushered in early today )y a Teuton vic
tory. conceded officially by Bucharest and
Petrograd. Three more towns. Dicta.
Arsuriller and Candesti, fell to the Ger
man -ommander, who, after a protracted
deadiock with the reinforced Bmanians.
has ruddeniy set his "steam roller" into
motion again.
Candesti is the most important of the
trio of newly captured cities. It lies not
far to the northwest of Campulung, the
two others being in the Gyergyo moun
taIns, beyond the Transylvanian Alpine
ridge.
Altogether. the day's successes netted
the Teutons 1.000 prisoners. "in addition to
the enemy's sacrifices in killed and wound
ed." In the words of the Berlin state
ment.
FRANCO-SERBIAN ARMY
ADVANCES TWO MILES
Captures Village of lven and Smashes
Bulgarian Defenses.
(By the Internatlesai News Service.)
London. Nov. 13.-Franco-Serbian troops,
constituting the left wing of the allied
front in Macedonia. scored a new Import
ant success during the last twenty-four
hours, the French war office frankly
ceding the lion's share to the Serbs.
Aided by a terrific drumfire of the fa
mous French "seventy-fiva," the Serbs
effected a new crossing of the derna
River. captured the village of Iven, and
smashed through the Bulgarian defenses,
advancing to a depth of nearly two miles.
At the same time French and Serbian
Infantry forces pushed further ahead in
the Cerna bend to the north of Velyeselo.
Altogether 1,000 prisoners were taken,
and the booty included sixteen Bulgarian
guns.
Sofia officially admitted this afternoon
the lose' of a series of heights northeast
of Polog.
The Serbian success here, with the cap
ture of Iven village. means an advance
of five miles since the fall of Polog yes
terday.
All Bulgarian counter attacks, furious
as they were, failed under the French
hail of shells.
PUSH THERE W RT.A WS
TO PAY ELECTION BEMS
Three wheelbarrows bearing three elec
tion winners were trundled down Pen,
sylvania avenue from the Peace Monu
ment to the White House last night.
Several thousand pedestrians made com
ment. fram the side lines and threeme
several times to break up the Impromptu
parade.
The losers who toted the harrows wars
John Greenhorn, George Shipe and Carl
Cramer. They pushed D. Breen. Shirley
Wright and George O'Brien, all of the
election gamblers being registered on the
Flrth-Stirling steel plant payroll. Fore
man Herbert Smith, with his family. led
the parade in an automobile.
flEECE SHOUT 10E PEACE.
Bertin, via Sertvile Whelmiss Nov. 3.
A stormy asinmin et the Urea see
of deputies in W na~ aser
created a furere by shotin ma
for peace is reported to adiles reechha
here today from Parth by way of An
sterdam and Berne.
Finance MinIster Ribot was diseusing
France's amineda mteios the di.
patches state, when several Socialel
meambers Interrupted him, shoitn
'Make a peace learn," **Tae have le
eneuph maeees," M~ paes age et a
mas... e~ml.m sa. he -.....a
FRANCHISE FOR
DISTRICT URGED
Board of Trade Her Its
Pradents Report.
Urging a&d n -m of the Board t I
Trade to otniute bime--f a .ise
committee to secure the fraundise fs
aliems of the Distrit of Columbia. Pres
dent Edwin C. Brandenburg addemed
that body at its annual meeting at the
New Willard last night. Decrying any
change that would deprive Congress of
its right and jurisdiction over the DI&
triet. President Brandenburg argued that
citisenship in the District should adic
to the right to participate in the discus
aions regarding the Union as well e" I
posing the obligation of contributing to
v.'rd its support with taxes and its Ge
fense with men.
The meeting v.s attended by more than
800 members of the Board of Trade.
I A remolation was introduced at the
meeting by laac Gans calling upon Con
grews to advance by 25 per eert the sel
artes now paid Federal department clerks
to enable them to meet the demand for
necessitles and commodities of life that
have seen such a marked advance in
price during the last ten years.
A report read by J. Harry Cunningham.
secretary of the Board of Trade. shiowed
the organisation to be on a sound onan
cial base and noted an increase of 2X In
membership. bringing the total up to
1.411 members.
A wave of applause greeted Mr. Bran
denburg's declaration tlat:
"Taxation without representation has
always been ohnoxious to the American
mind, and as the (ity has developeil ano
the demands increase. so has the desir
to participate through representation in
Congress In the aftairs of the t'nion.'
President Brandenburg attacked s.e.-.
measums passed by the last -ngres.
declaring they were inequitable awl u
necessary and were passed as ri,-.e II
appropriation bills without granting w- -
tlgs to repre-entatites from the 1)F1i .t
interested in or affected by them They
were also passed. he said. without re-orn.
mendation by the District Commission
era.
Nits Beriand Amendumet.
Among these he included the Borland
amendment assessing owners of abutting
property for improvements of streets to
the center of the roadway. the tax on in
tangible property and the charging at
rent for space occupied under sidewalks.
He condemned generally as unjust and
irregular in analysis the practice by Can
green of passing legislation by tarking it
s riders onto appropriation bills
peaking of the adjustment of fiscal
tAionas between the tDstrict and Fed
eral governments. be said a special com
mittee of the Board of Trade had been
able to show that "the. por ceasa taxes
e( the District as well as otherwise are
In eceses of ue.y sie ld + . t idls
d population. and that the citizens of
i District were not mae mendirants.*
He stated this will set at rest onrc and
for all the important question of the
amount to be contributed by the govern
ment toward Dtistrict affairs in return for
what it has and does receive.
The following board of directora was
elected following the meeting: cunso H.
Rudolph, Charles F. Crane. William T.
lalliher. Edward F. Coliaday, John B.
Larner. E- C. Graham. H. Clifford Bangs.
Walter C Clephane. E. J. Murphy. And
Walter H. Klopfer.
The directors will meet next Monday
afternoon at 4:16 o'clock In the Board
of Trade rooms to elect officers for the
coming year. The offices to be filled are
president, two vice presidents. a seere
tary, a general counsel, a treasurer. and
an assistant secretary. So far no can
didates for the offices have been declared.
and it is not known how many of the
offMeers will run for re-election.
UNER READY FOR
DART TO OPEN SEA
Ducand Expected to -Make Dash
O)ut of Part at Nght.
My DAMON RUN oN.
(jattesnatieeal News serevse.i
New London. Conn.. Nov. 13.-The
Deutschland is still at its berth along
side the State Pier in the Thames River
tonight.
Whether it will be there tomorrow
morning is another question.
Capt. Paul Koenig. master of the Ger
man blockade runner. has said that he
will go out in daylight. but events of
the past few ho"ur indieste that when
he made the statemlent he probably re
served the right to change his mind with
out notice.
It would not be at all surprising if the
submarine attempts a night dash. It is
raining here again tonight, and a thick
haze hangs over the Thases River-Ideal
conditions for the boat to sneak away.
It was denied by representatives of the
customs oice tonight that clearance has
been applied for, but the Indications
seem to be that the Amerlean officials are
going to as"st the German boat in mak
ing a surreptitious exit as far as possible.
probably under instructions from Wash
ingtoes
James McGovern. collector of iutomn
for the Connecticut district. returned to
New London today, and wan busy at the
berth of the submarine. A number of
iemco-vr of the customs office were else
there going over the carue.
Hobbken. N. J., Nov. 18.--'he lives of
mE girls were endangered today when en
caping gas exploded on the first floor of
a factory building. All of the widows
-n that floor were blown out end the
girls employed on the wpper d00re fled
fthe building in a panic. ineveral
fted, hut were earied oed skl.
St. Paul. MEae.. Nov. 1.-has 3.
Hughes' lead In the eSent ot m...e
votes has been cut to byt the ve of
the @warsmn on the Emiena hesaer.
aeoerding to latest flumes available teoy.
The aigures stad: 3ushes. UI: Wansa,
L Amns, Nov. IL.-There are tnw 4..m
werking women in mgmnd. In the pas
year there has been an increase ofabt
I MUS ai t~e number or women dnbq
seas wgeek. 4heet half of t e n
-ag in hemstrl pm M
