FINANCIAL'EDITION-
NIGHT
EXTRA
i
wnmn
tfSTR
&
.
.j
Vtebgjtt
NIGHT
EXTRA
53
VOL. HI.-NO.
HAIG'S TROOPS
EXTEND GROUND
ONTHEANCRE
Make More Progress in
iBeaucourt Region Take
I 4000 Prisoners
BERLIN ADMITS LOSSES
flighting spreaus A-
and in uirucuu"
Miraumont
PniLADELPniA, TUESDAY, XOV.EMBER M, lf)lG
Comsioiit, 1010. r tiir rrnuo I.emiui Commmi
TRICE ONE CENT
LONDON, Nov. 14.
The British on the Ancre today continued
ful smash against the heavily
The War Ofllce re
nt Boaucourt-aur-
PATRIOTIC CITIZEN SHOOTS
AT DESPOILKK OF U. S. FLAG
Lancaster Man Aroused at Midnight
by Vandal Act
LANCASTER, Pa., Nov. 14. At mid
night last night Charles A. Shlndle, Ice
dealer, was aroused by a noise In front of
his house nnd, looking from his bedroom
window, discovered that a bin American
flag ho had displayed had been pulled down
by an unidentified man who was tearing It
to pieces and trampling It under fool.
Shlndlo fired a rifle at the, direction of
tho flag, but missed and the man fled.
fortified German lines.
,.a new progress
Tncre. where more than 4000 Germans were
ttVtn prisoners.
Bitter fighting was going on In the out-
skirts of the town at noon.
The announcement which told of the new
, ,nce at Beaucourt-sur-Ancro said tho
storming of Beaumont-Hamel and Saint
PUrre Dmon vium - -
Mccessrui.
On the south bank, about St. rlerre
DWon. halt a "" north of T"lenval' tho
Germans already have started counter-at-ueklnr,
and the fighting thero Is bitter.
The British have rushed up reserves at
all three points taken In the lightning
stroke that began under cover of the low
hunter tnltta early yesterday, nnd con
Uane4 In this sector with a surprisingly
saall show of resistance by the Germans.
Th reMrv'8 ar now nt work consolidating
the galas $ wero m(ld8 'n'nero tno 0er
Bin dug and cemented themselves Into
Sit heretofore had been regarded as one
f of the most lmprcgnablo portions of their
western lines.
Military experts here expected the greatest-
how of resistance about Beaumont
Himel since anV turther advance by Brlt
Uh forces there will seriously threaten
Miraumont less than one mile east di
rectly on tho road to coveted Bapaumo.
By today the number of prisoners taken
hid Increased well above 4000. More are
coatinuiUy being hurried to the rear of
the Briti'h lines. Much booty was found
Id Ute'amtilngly Intricate dugout defenses.
Frtgyientary press reports reaching here
todty, toll of a spread of the fighting sev
eral rnJlM northward, which led to belief
Uiit Gneral Ha!gs forces have started a
cirfMMM'Vfcerre, about one mile north "of
Bestanont and a scant mile and a half
Wthweet ot lllramount.
, Jefterdas advance consolidation was
on a front of more than Ave miles and to a
depth 'at some points of more than 2000
yards. Each attack was preceded by a
curtain of fire which German prisoners sav
li the most terrible of any barrage hall
ef actal that has been faced on any front,
Whll Interest centered on this latest
British smash, great Importance Is attached
J to reports from the eastern front that Bus-
Iina In force have crossed the Danube
from a point west below Cernavoda. This
ifres the Russo-Rumanlans re-enforcements
at a point where thev alreadv have shown
''la advantage over Mackensen's left wing,
which Petrograd and Bucharest report Is
treating, despite Berlin War Office state-
stftta,that the Feld Marshal is maintaining
Is positions there.
LOCAL NAVY YARD
TO HAVE WARSHIP
JOB, DANIELS HINT
War Secretary Intimates
Big Improvements at
League Island
MIGHTY PETITION
FOR FAIR PLAY TO
FIREMEN OF CITY
Business Houses and Indi
viduals Representing $100,
000,000 Plead Their Cause
SOME STRIKING CONTRASTS
BATTLE CRUISER WORK
Secretary of the Navy Daniels Indicated
today, according to dispatches from Wash
ington, that the Philadelphia Navy Yard
would soon bo equipped for battleship build
ing. The Secretary wilt confer with his ad
visory council Thursday, following his
meeting with private shipbuilders tomor
row, and It Is expected that this council
will recommend tho Improvement of League
Island Immediately.
Officials at tho Philadelphia Navy Tard
wero elated when they heard the news from
Washington. One of them said:
"We have been hopeful that the Philadel
phia Navy Yard would soon be selected as
a place for battleship building. In order to
do this work we must have a big drydock
and some large shlpways. Brooklyn and
Mare's Island yards are already equipped
for battleship construction. The Arizona
was recently completed at Brooklyn, and
work Is now being rushed on the New Mex
ico. Tho keel of the California Is being laid
at Mare's Island."
Secretary Daniels said today that the
bids of Cramps and the Fore River Ship
Building Company, offering to construct the
battleships on a commission basis, could not
be accepted. The conference tomorrow with
the shipbuilders has been arranged In
order to give these bidders nn opportunity
to modify their conditional and illegal bids.
Secretary Daniels expressed himself as
desirous that the four battleships and four
scout cruisers, twenty destroyers and thirty
submarines be built In private yards, and
everything will be done by the navy offi
cials toward that end.
If private yards undertake this work they
will be unable to construct the four battle
cruisers, bids for which havo not been
opened. Tho navy officials hope to prepare
League Island and other Government yards
for the construction of these ships.
Philadelphia Ranks 23
in Firemen's Salaru Roll
ANNUAL salaries paid hoscmen in
American cities:
New York $1500
San Francisco 1440
Oakland, Cal 1404
Boston 1400
Chicapo 1371
Detroit 1310
Newark, N.J 1300
Hoboken, N. J 1300
St. Louis 12G0
Cloveland 1218
Providence, R. I 1205
Pittsburgh 1200
Buffalo 1200
Portland, Ore 1200
Bridgeport, Conn 1200
Salt Lake City, Utah 1200
Hartford, Conn 1200
Trenton, N. J 1200
Yonkcrs, N. Y 1200
Somerville, Mass 1200
Atlantic City, N. J 1200
Brockton, Mass 1200
PHILADELPHIA 1100
Two-platoon system in operation.
THfyvftPV
BERLIN WAR OFFICE ADMITS
LOSS OF BEAUMONT, IIAMEL
. . AND ST. PIERRE DIVION
' i BERLIN, Nov. 14.
Evacuation of Beaumont. Hamel and St.
1"T-J)lYlon was announced by tho War
OSos today.
Tie official statement also said, "'ftiir
tuaclous defense caused us considerable
.'," but declared the Hrltlh nin suf
fered 'fconilderable saprifl-M." 'ti,. -,.-
-'smiiJ follows:
la the western war theater, army
K k Prince Rupprecht, there was
I "Shting on both sides of the
r..r '"""" oirong jsngnsh at-
j 5L5J2? heaviest-caliber guns, were
1v. r v ,"""" our positions, me aa
W bemg at an angle toward tho
tnwetward.
The, enemy, under considerable sacrl
j fS uccelel in pushing us back
I SX'Bei,i";nt. Hamel and st, pjerre.
2t? A'"1 """ adjoining lines to other
" positions.
Report of Dumba Death Denied
VIENNA, Nov. 14. Official denial was
made today of reports widely circulated
jabroadthat Dr. Constantln Dumba, former
Austrian Ambassador to the United States,
was dead.
Philadelphia's citizens today place the
question of more pay nnd shorter hours for
tho city's flrefightlng force squarely before
Mayor Smith. A petition bearing tho names
of business houses and Individuals repre
senting an Invested capital exceeding
(100,000,000 and employes numbering more
than 100,000 will bo submitted to tho
Mayor by William C. Lynch, an attorney,
on behalf of the citizen-signers and the
firemen themselves.
The petition Is brief In Its text, although
the appended signatures make It volu
minous. Addressed to the Mayor In his
official capacity It reads:
We, the undersigned citizens of Phil
adelphia, 'realizing the condition of the
men of the Fire Bureau Is such that
Immediate efforts Bhould bo made to
bring about better conditions for them,
respectfully urge you to recom
mend to Councils that the men In that
service be, given shorter number of
hours on duty and such reasonable In
crease In salary as shall warrant them
being satisfied with their condition
and at the same time consistent with
the financial condition of the city.
The signatures to the petition gave that
document the appearance of being a list
of the manufacturing, mercantile and finan
cial houses of Philadelphia.
Included In the list of signers were mem
bers of almost every large retail establish
ment along Market and Chestnut streets.
The great corporate leaders In tho city's
manufactures, whose establishments employ
labor by the thousands, joined In the ap
peal. Every line of Industry located In
the territory protected by the Bureau of
Fire was represented by one or more names.
Officers and directors of banks and financial
EDWIN H. VARE
DOPE EVIL SPURS
SENATOR VARE TO
DEVISE NEW LAW
Dedicates Efforts to Effect
ing Measure With
"Teeth" in It
QUICK NEWS
STANDARD OIL ESTABLISHES EIGHT-HOUR DAY ON COAST
SAN FRANCISCO. Nov. 14. The Standard Oil Company, of Cal
.1 inln, today announced that the company had voluntnilly deulded to
pii4 nn eight-hour day with no i eduction In wages Into effect In ti
i. ;:, cries on Its pipe lines nnd In the ptotlueing departments. Vw
i 'his end nve now being worked out. The new hours will apply to
' '.' skilled and unskilled labor.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
1'lrst Bowie race, maiden 2-yonv-olds. soiling. 5 1.2'furlonfts
i. 115. McAtee. 100. $33.10. 911.50. -.ton, Mcelogcuc. 112. Mc
, itt, $12.30. $5.GO. second; Chclscn, 107. Blown. S15.70. third.
1.10 -1-5.
t-conrt Bowie vnce. 2-ycnr-olds 0 fu longs D,ndy Duuc, 115.
niRonie. 12. 91.00. 1, won: Alvord. 101). Troxler. $1.90. 92.CO.
Mil: Kilkenny ,109, Amhiose, fjil.SO, third. Time, 1 15 3-5.
P.HT. WILLING
TO TAKE OVER
TRANSIT LINES
Ready to Enter Agreement
for New Subways and
L Routes
RELIABLE SOURCE
GIVES INFORMATION
Prepared to Assume Charge of
Entire System as Soon as
Work Is Completed
CERTIFICATES GO UP
Report, Dclieved Authoritative, .Has
Markedly Favorable Effect on
Company's Paper
WILSON GAINS So IN CALIFORNIA VOTE COUNT
SAN l-'UANCISCO. Nov. 1 1. President Wilson Is maintaining; his lead in tho
California returns on tho face of ofllclnl tabulation reported up to 11 o'clock today.
At thnt hour 21 of tho 5S counties In tho State had completed their official count.
A tabulation showed a Rain of SO for Wilson over his plurality shown by tho un
official count.
HUGHES LEADS WILSON IN MINNESOTA UY 123
ST. PAUL. Nov. 14. With ten precincts missing. Hughes led Wilson In Minne
sota today by 123. Hughes had 179.4G3 nnd Wilson 179.340.
HORRIFIED AT SITUATION
Contlnnrd on race Four. Column Two
The recent series of articles In the Kvem
ino Ledoeh, revfallns tho alarming extent
of the narcotic drug evil In Philadelphia
spurred State Senator Edwin H. Vare to
a determination to frame State legislation
which would forever free this city from the
"dope" blight. He now has a competent
lawyer at work on an anti-drug bill, which
he says carries severe penalties for Illicit
traffickers In drugs nnd for unscrupulous
physicians and druggists who sell morphine,
heroin and cocaine to "dope" fiends under
tho guise of the "reduction treatment."
In an interview In his office In the Lin
coln Building today, the Senator told an
Evening) Ledoer representative how ho
had Investigated closely tho statements set
forth In this newspaper's recent depo ar
ticles, and said ho had not found them ex
aggerated In -tho slightest degree.
"As a matter of fact," he Bald, "I was
horrified to discover that the situation was
even worso than described so well by the
Evenino Ledoer. Those drug articles and
tho results of my subsequent Investigation
of the subject served as a spur for me to
do something right away to relieve tho
evil.
CITY'S GREATEST EVIL
"I have found that the drink evil and tho
social evil are but plnheads when com
pared with this terrible drug scourge, which
Is eating Its way to the very vitals of our
AGED WIDOW'S TRUST LEAVES HER PENNILESS
Liabilities amounting to $1 1,581.14 and assets to $1305.1R nre on the schedule in
bankruptcy started today ngnlnst Mrs. Sarah K. Eastlock Lloyd, of Swcdesboro.
before neTcreo in bankruptcy S. Conrad Ott in Cnmden. Mrs. Lloyd Is eighty-four
years old. Her husband died several yeara ago. leaving her nn estate of between
$20,000 nnd J30.000. It Is said that she went hecurlty for n man in tho contracting
business In Swcdesboro. Ho failed in business, thus causing her financial difficulties.
BRITISH SEIZE MAIL ON HELIG OLAV
SEW YORK, Nov. 14. The Scandinavian liner Hells Olav, arriving here today,
reported that British authorities at Kirkwall removed two passengers and all the
mall'beforo allowing tho vessel to proceed. The passengers taken off were Conrad
Stafanowski, a Russian, nnd Christian Parnmar, n Dane. No reason was given
for their removal, Captain Hoist said. The Helig brought over 628 passengers.
Contlnurd on race Tno, Column Six
HENRY GEORGE, JR., DIES;
LEADER IN SINGLE TAX
Son of Distinguished Philosopher
of Movement Had Retired
From Congress
' n!Ln?cl0U8 defense caused us con
I 3r2?r'u".es- At other PIns om
1 Cc.? buterne south to Grandcourt.
-52' "?" EnBn had entered our
! EK:.. ,y were eJected by brisk
MjSJw. s of our li'antry.
Lvrs"'"""" in -ina San v-Saltiinni.
.1 tMtar fan.
' the- eastern bank of the Meusa
CoaUnoed on rio six. Column Two
' Fltllt Trpft Sr,,IoIIt n..j
rJi!l?A5rR;,.Pa-' Nov. H.Dr. I. H.
roM hi.Y, r Dlreet( "venty-three
f ow. died last nnht Ho was widely
;W..iv '' raro specimens
HEWEATHER
j) , FOKECAST
jMhdtlphia and vcinUVr-Cold
lueraUu rlnuJ,, j ' t
r-Wbht, with lowest temperature
HJmiy-etgM or thirtll dearie
I fair and colder; fresh north-
i V, ."INQTH OF DAY
&,!lteSffls::iSa
TNUT HTftv.vr TOi...i
-MWWATUBK AT KACH HOUR
uor yjLjTTr-2r-3T tt-s
B I - - - -
ri-ffmigt-tfi n
. -- .:
'i &m. -iSBTallllllllv
COMPULSORY SERVICE
IN BIG BRAZILIAN ARMY
DUE TO WORK OF POET
Million Men Will Be Trained
for Land and Sea Fight
ing Within Ten '
Years
MANY ANXIOUS TO S E R V E
JL
HENRY GEORGE, JR.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 14. Former Con
gressman -Henry George, Jr., died hers today.
Funeral services will be held at his
Washington 'residence tomorrow evening.
The body will, be taken to New York Thurs
day for Interment In Greenwood Cemetery,
Mr, George, son of the gret single-tax ad
vocate and hlmselfbne of the leading expo
nents of the theory, had been In poor health
for several years. 'He had been confined
to his bed since hi return from his summer
home In Merrlwold Park, New York. In
September. Following his retirement from
Copgress two years ago, he had made hi
home here.
Henry George, Jr., was born In 1862. He
graduated from, the public schools Into
newspaper work, On his father's sudden
death In 1897, In the midst of the New York
mayoralty campaign, he wa selected as the
single-tax nominee. He wrote a number of
books, Including a biography of his father,
Henry George, Jr., wa engaged In news,
paper work In Philadelphia from the early
part of 1900 to the latter part of 1802. He
was on the staff of the North American.
Ho left thta city for Japan, where be acted
a coTrpondnt tor Mwapar st)Ut.
COLD SNAP MAY BRING
SLIGHT SNOW FLURRY
Decided Drop in Temperature on
Way Here From Freez
ing West
GRAVES READY TO DEFEND BLACKMAIL CHARGE
NEW YORK, Nov. 14. Declaring ho would bo eager to tako the stand tomorrow
If tho German Embassy should press charges agnlnst him, Armgannl Karl Graves,
self-styled "International spy," prepared today to leave for "Washington. Ho will
havo a bodyguard. JIo still believes tho embassy will not attempt to prosecute him.
Graves has a dictagrnph In his New York apartments, explaining "you can't bp too
careful."
FRANCE HOLDS DESTINN, OPERA STAR, AND OFFICER
BERLIN. Nov. 14. Emmy Dostinn, the Bohemlnan prima donna of the Metro
politan Opera Company of New York, nnd Dlhn Gllly, French sergeant of zouaves,
former Metropolitan baritone nnd sweetheart of Mndamo Destlhn, nre understood
to be detained on Madame Dcstlnn's estate near Prague. Attempts to obtalh pass
ports for Madame Dcstinn to return to America and fill her 1916-17 opera contracts
havo been unavailing, and It is believed lmprobablo sho will bo able to get back.
WILL CONSIDER RAILROAD PROBLEMS
WASHINGTON, Nov. 14. The first formal consideration of the railroad prob
lems confronting tho country was begun here today, when tho National Association
of Stato Railroad Commissioners met In nnnunl convention. The commissioners
aro discussing matters to bo taken up next week by tho Joint congressional com
mittee In Its inrjuiry Into general railroad conditions. The Stato commissioners will
send representatives before the Joint committee to Insure that "State's rights" bo
unhampered.
PLOT TO SMUGGLE AMMUNITION INTO MEXICO
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., Nov. 14. Gonzales and Ccrvlano Flores, brothers, were
arrested by Federal agents today as they wero preparing to cross tho border Into
Mexico near Eagle Pass with 20,000 rounds of ammunition. At tho samo tinio
Leopold Sanchez, an alleged Carranza agent, 'was taken Into custody here. It Is
charged he bought 100,000 rounds of cartridges and was using tho Flores brothers
as his agents.
Votltd Press Bprctal South American Service
RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 14. "Prepnred
ness," as a theory, Is no longer open to
discussion In Urazll. The big southern re
public has gone In for "militarism," and
with enthusiasm.
Compulsory military service, established
by a law of 1908, goes Into effect Decem
ber 1, and If the results approach 'tho pre
dictions of the law's sponsors a million
Brazilians will be trained In arms and
maneuvers within the next ten years. All
able-bodied men between the ages of twenty-one
and forty-four years are subject to
the call of arms, and when called they
must Join the colors or be liable to punish
ment as deserters.
By a scheme of short-time service favors
are advanced to those who wish to escape
the two years' service In the active army;
however, the greater part of Brazil's army
probably will be composed of volunteers.
More than 50,000 volunteers enlisted for
tho short service between August 1 and
September 30, this year, fnd It is probable
that this number will be doubled before
December 1, when ten per cent of those
who did not volunteer will be drawn by lot
for compulsory service. The volunteer and
drawing by lot Pocess will be repeated
each year.
The men of the new army will be divided
according to their ages, those between the
ages of twenty-one and thirty going Into
the first line of tho active army and its
reserve; between thirty and thirty-seven
Into the second line and Its reserve, and
between thlrty-even and forty-four Into
the third line and Its reserve or the national
guard. After nine years in , the active
army the men are retired to the reserve,
VOLUNTEER ARMY
The volunteers are classed as they wish
tp serve for the two yeara' service, for
the annual maneuvers and training camp,
or for training In schools and In shooting
club under the Instruction of army of
ficer. The two latter claw mut con-
CUwl Hw,IW.hhii IFew
A "cold snap" Is on Its way to Phila
delphia. It is defined by tho Weather
Bureau this "cold snap" as a bit of
weather In tho thirties or lower on tho
thermometer, with a wind blowing as
strong as eighteen or twenty miles an hour.
It will como riding In on the crystal hem of
a softly driven rain, which may, If tho
mercury doesn't drop too far, turn Into a
softly driven snow. So Philadelphia may
awake tomorrow under "a blanket of white."
A bulletin was Issued from tho'New York
Weather Bureau Station this afternoon an
nouncing that the temperature there would
drop to about 34 degrees In the next twen
ty-four or thirty-six hours. From Wash
ington came a report that "tho blast of
winter" might be expected to overspread
tho entire north and middle Atlantic States
tonight and tomorrow, with general freez
ing weather.
The "cold snap," which was incorporated
somewhere In the Progressive territory of
the West, reached Pittsburgh this morning,
and the thermometer went on record at
thirty-four degrees above zero, Snow
flurries came with It, In Scranton, sleet
began to fall. In Blnghamton, Rochester
and Buffalo, snow flurries followed the
drop In temperature, Sucli weather spread
over most of the New England States today
except along the Massachusetts, Rhode
Island and Connecticut coast.
It is doubtful that snow will fall In Phila
delphia, the Weather Bureau says. The
sky l likely to clear ns the temperature
hHDiHi freezing tonight. And frost will
cover the gardens and flower plots tomor
row morning. The wind, which blew at
twelve miles an hour early this morning,
Increased to eighteen miles around noon,
and promises that It will reach twenty miles
before nightfall are not as uncertain as a
politician's platform.
From the West came reports of remark'
able drops In temperatures. Chicago and
tit Louis today recorded sixteen degrees
above zero; Oklahoma City reported four
teen above, and In Dodge City, Kansas,
which recently went Democratic, the mer
cury stood at six above.
DrllUh Seize Philippine Mail
MANILA. P, T Nov. 14. The BrltUh
steamship Taming, which has arrived here
from Amoy, reports that the British cruiser
PROBING ALLEGED ELECTION FRAUDS IN INDIANA
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Nov. 14. Tho United States Grand Jury mot hero today
to Investigate tho nllegcd lllegnl registration and voting frauds in Indiana. Frankle
Dnlley, special prosecutor appointed to investigate tho chnrges of frnud, has re
fused to make any statement slnco election regarding the result of his Investigation.
Cornwall wnmwwu uu, hvh vi ue
Manila mall for the purpose of examination
at.KeliJ-koni;.
ANOTHER MILLION TO BE SPENT FOR COKE OVENS
YOUNGSTOWN. O., Nov. 14. The Brier Hill Steel Company upon the comple
tion of Its sixty-flvo by-products coke ovens now being built, announces It will make
an appropriation of $1,000,000 for an additional battery of fifty-eight ovens.
INDEPENDENT OPERATOR CAUSES MINE STRIKE
ALTOONA, Pa., Nov. 14. Several hundred men employed In bituminous mines
nt Osceola Clearfield County, struck today to enforce it demand for $1 a ton for
mining coal. They had been receiving the union scale, seventy-Are cents, but when
somo Independent operator agreed to pay $1 all the men in that region Insisted on
having it.
MRS. LEDUC, HOTEL TRAGEDY VICTIM, IN CRITICAL STATE
Mrs. Joseph C. LcDuc, who, with J. P. Graveur, of New York, was shot by
Mrs. Harry Belzer In tho Hotel Walton six weoks ago, Buffered a relapse nnd Is
In n critical condition In tho Jefferson Hospital. Sho was on tho road to rccorery
when last week a minor operation wns performed. Complications set In and her
condition becamo worse.
COTTON REACHES HIGHEST PRICE SINCE CIVIL WAR
NEW YORK, Nor. 14. July and May cotton sold nt 20.20 ccntH a pound, a
record price slnco Clrll War times, and March nnd April ilollreries were above 20
cents ut the opening of tho exchango today. Tho Initial gains ranged from U to
23 points.
TWO KILLED IN EXPLOSION ON JAPANESE SUBMARINE
KOBE, Japan. Nov. 14. Two seamen wero killed and six officers and eight
sailors wero wounded by an explosion which destroyed tho Japanese submarino No.
4 today. The accident occurred while tho submurlno was returning from tho launch
ing of the superdreadnought Jse.
TRIAL OF LOST U. S. SHIP'S CAPTAIN ADVISED
WASHINGTON, Nov. 14. Court-martial of Captain Edward Beach, commander
of the United States cruiser Memphis, Bunk In a storm off Santo Domingo harbor
several weeks ago, lias been recommended by a naval board of inquiry, Secretary
Daniels announced today.
RULERS CONGRATULATE WILSON ON VICTORY
WASHINGTON, Nov, 14. President Wilson today received congratulations on
his re-election from several foreign rulers, as well as from Ambassadors and Min
isters here, but the White House refused to rriake any of these r 4'Uc, pending
such an expression from Charles E, Huyhesv
I
Tho Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com
pany Is ready to enter Into an agreement
with the municipal authorities for tho oper
ation of tho entire system of subway and
elevated lines as soon ns It has been com
pleted. This fact was learned today from a
source generally considered authoritative
In financial and transit circles.
Tho tentative draft of an operating leas,e
embodied In Mayor Smith's transit ordi
nance has been given careful consideration
by the transit officials, nnd It Is under
stood that they will come before Council
Finance and Street Railways Committees at
tho public hearing on Friday and signify
their willingness to ratify the agreement
substantially In the form It now appears In
tho ordinance.
There are several minor modifications
which will bo urged by the officials of the
Transit Company nnd a few other points
will havo to be ndjusted to subsequent con
ferences, but that tho essential provision
of the contract, as embodied in the ordi
nance, nre acceptable to the traction di
rectors and officers is virtually assured.
Ofilcer8 and directors of neither the Tran
sit Company nor the Union Traction Com
pany would discuss officially today their at
titude toward tho Mayor's ordinance. A
the formal notifications of Friday's meet
ings have not been mailed to them yet,
they make the point that they can be ex
pected to make lio official comment
In both financial and transit circles, how
ever, it Is said that the traction men not
only have decided to accept the agreement,
but that they,liave atso) given .private In
formation to city officials that the terms
proposed In geheral are agreeable to them.
TAYLO'h MAY BE CONFEREE
The Transit Company, In fact, through
Ellis Ames Ballard. Its attorney, has dis
cussed with Mayor Smith a conference with
the authorities asldo from tho hearing be
fore Councils' committees. Former Transit
Director A. Merrltt Taylor will probably
be; one of the conferees representing the
city.
Tho fact that Philadelphia Rapid Transit
trust certificates aro 'selling on the local
Stock Exchange above twenty-seven, the
highest figure they have reached since 191J,
is pointed out as particularly significant at
this time. Since tho Mayor's ordinance was
referred to the two committees In Councils
the trust certificates have been rising
steadily until yesterday they reached twenty-seven
and three-quarters, jvhich Is only
one-quarter lower than the record price In
1913.
The rise In P. R. T. has been gradual
for more than a week, gaining during this
period 5M points, with accompanying sales
of nearly 100,000 shares. The rising trad
ing value of the trust certificates Is ac
cepted as proof that the company's finances
are better than they have been for some
time. Further proof of the company's
financial stability was given In September,
when a two per cent dividend, the first In
tho company's history, was declared.
CERTIFICATES AN INDEX
Taking the price of trust certificates a
a criterion of the company's strength, tran
sit observers point out that the company
is far better able to enter Into an agree
ment than It was In May, 1014, when Hora
tio G. Lloyd and Thomas E. Mitten ad
dressed the well-known communication to
the stockholders of the company submitting
the Taylor agreement and recommending
tho appointment of a commltteo to take up
the matter with the Union Traction Com
pany. '
On thnt date the trust certificates wer
Belling between 16 and 17, Less than a year
later the transit controversy became em
bittered, to such an extent that Edward T.
Stotcsbury telegraphed to Mayor Blanken
burg from Florida that the attacks upon
the traction company had bo Injured It
credit that It would be Impossible to make
an operating agreomeni wim mo city.
that elate,
On
March 1. 19 IS, the trust certifi
cates were selling nt 99i. and trading very
light even at mat ugure.
Coincident with the rise In the trading
value of the stock, the company's earnings
havo advanced by leaps and bounds, each
successive monthly report for more than a
year now having shown an Increase In earn
ings over tho previous month.
This fact. It 1 said, has been an Impor
tant factor In bringing the company offi
cials to a point where they, are willing to
lease the new city-built )Jnej,vJrtually upon
the terms offered' two'yeanPago by former
Director Taylor. -
JERSEY JUBILEE FOR WILSON
Thousands Join in Qumbcrland County
Celebration
BBIDOETON, N. J... Nov. 14. Despite
lowering kkles, thousands of enthuslastto
Democrats of Cumberland County laafnlsfet
celebrifted the Wilson victory with a parade,
There were four divisions, marching -Men,
horseman, decorated automobile and tableau
floats.
Five band furnished the muia.and to
entire, lino was ablase with readre. jteiniMl,
L. Jones wa chlt marshal of the parade.
The one hundred hofMmoq lrintaJ a fin
display and the diOot ajsUiinSMx car
ried the members of t"Ws4fw Wilavs
H f
