" ?, * " z ?
I ran,,- r S5" colder to- ! ^JfV. ^ ^ ^ ^ ]Mf "From Pre** to Home
night and a M^M ^ jM ># ^>44f* | 4 ' 4 il Yl S
1 - rlrl 9ITYl lyTiTTi rtr ^^^ITlrl^ kN) wuhin the Ho*r?
perature for hours ending I . MS r g\ S <gj?3 ???__
today:! \mJ/\ yv / % vvlIvl IXA . !
?- I y 1 I y f / Sworn Net Circulation, Month of October,
CLOSING \K? YORK STOCKS PAGE 1?. V?/ ^ ^ ,9I?- D",,J' *-"??' S*-?"No.
29.51)2. ~ WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. " 7 ONE CENT.
ADVISES NEW IAW 1
ON 111 RATE FIXING
B. H. Meyer. Head of I. C. C.. I
Cites Difficulties Through 1
"Overlapping."
| ADDRESS TO CONVENTION
r ImBB
IT
1
B. II. MEIER. .
Baltshasar IT. Meyer, chairman of the '
interstate commerce commission, an- 1
siounced today the commission believes '
Congress ought to provide by law for
co-operation between the state railroad ;
commissions and the interstate commerce
commission in cases where rail- |
road rate fixing by two states or more J ,
overlap each other and extend into the '
authority of the interstate commission. J
Mr. Meyer said he v.as speaking ofli- ! i
ially for the commission. His state- <
ment was ma le at the opening session j )
of the twenty-eighth annual convention
of the National Association of State j i
Railroad Commissioners, in the audi- j 1
ence room of the commission.
He urged the state commissioners to ,
go before the Xewlands sub-committee ;
of Congress, which is to begin hearings i
Tuesday at the Capitol on government j
control and regulation of the railroads
and advocate such joint control ol J 1
rates. j i
Battle of Forces Foreseen.
The first blows in preparation for what t
is generally believed will be a big railroad
battle in Congress this winter, were i
Htru- k at the opening of the convention J
today. Robert R. 1'reniis of Virginia. 1
president of tlu* association, began a t
movement i?? organize the statt cominissionei
s. their use?>cjale.s and assist- r
ants. in opposilion to tin- proKram of r
Th? r??H> way executives' .dvisory com- ,
inittee. recently enuin iu!$d by Frank
Trumbull, chairman of that committee,
who also is chairman of the board of the i
t'hevapeukc and Ohio railway.
Mr. i'rentis told tile Commissioners j
that they must be- ready to appear
before the Newlands committee Tues- >
day, and that they must band them- \
selves together to fight the program i
of the railroads for a f?^leral incorporation
law, for a federal railroad '
commission which shall relieve the interstate
commerce commission of much
detail, and for regional boards located
i-i different sections of the country. :
The latter, .Mr. Prenti. said, .would
correspond in many part ilnrs. with
the present organization of the state
, ailroad commissions.
"linler such a plan as I have in
mind," Mr. Mey?-r said. an overlapping
rate * >* > arises t?? resulting;
investigation would be c - -bwted joint-i
1;. by the- state commissions arid the J
interstate commerce commission. Kvery j
state commission directly involved j
would by giving an opportunity in ac- '
cordance with law to participate in the j
deliberations and to assist in formu- >
lating the final conclusions upon a
record jointly made."
Many of the delegates to the convert- 1
tion "were plainly astonished and '
pleased by the proposal of the commission
to welcome their deliberation and
assistance in deciding cases.
Welcomes Investigation.
Mr. Meyer said he heartily welcomed
the congressional Investigation of the j
railroad situation, which is to 1m-Kin I
Tuesday. **This congressional inquiry."
h?- pointed out. "may t.erv u. who arc
engaged in tin work of regulation aid
all those who are aft' i-ted b> that work
as aii inventor; nerve a merchant." '
"In a few states." Mr. Meyer . aid, '
'the regulating fctatut? are now practtcally
ar hik a.s the hu-mess." hut he
said there is st:ll inu?-h regulating of I
the railroads to be done. I,
When men argu^, as they have j i
argued. Mr Mey? r raid, that raiiroad ;
rater have no connect ion with capital- I,
zatiou. wages, etc., he did not agree'1
with (hem "W< can doabtlcsK," het'
aid. " '.! universal assent to the
propositi or i that rates have a conn?-c- .
tion with jiockcthooks - the pocket- i
s of th>- users, of railroad.- well;
.1 - th po? ..- {.hooks "f th'-ir owro-rs." !
Mr. Me>?-r brought the problem ??f j
the railroads home to the man in the :
street- the general public- bv instancing
the c,,... I.f Jack of facilities for '
railroad t* rrninals.
"It ; in portant. he sa d. "that provision
should be made for tile construe!
ion of terminals* but it is equally irn
ji'JI imu i licit i.t:i ??II?1 jur>* i?l in n I'll <li?use
of surh terminal.- ni t>.*; interest
of the whole public including the rail- j
I ' ?;.d> y hiti 1 be provided.
Question of Distribution.
?
"The distribution of terminals." he'
added, . . .. extent <i?*l ; itiii.'-x
1.. diM -jbu' i"n < th? indu.-i ri< or
Diir t !?: ?. ?i i.-T ri but ion of indu.-trie-:
ir.flu'f.' th? disi ribution of the
m pOpUiul 1'dl. 11- 'ii.-. iribul loll o populaI
io?i extent determines tin
I living conditions of that population,
r which. in turn, lias a vital ettect on
tii.- charact.-t of that population.
? "threat social and political interests
are thus lied up with this problem of
terminals in ad lition to the .itai relation
ol terminals to the conduct of
transportation."
Representatives of state railroad corn- missions
from all over the country
were present at the opening of the
convention, which will continue for
four days, and which is expected to
resolve itself largely into an organization
meeting on tin- subject of howbest
to combat the announced plans of
the railway executives' advisory coin- j
mittH. Mr. 1'rentis said this committee
represents more than *0 per cent ol
^ the railroad mileage of the United
States, and he charged that the rail - I
roads have, been preparing for several j
years to destroy the slate railroad .
I commissions and will make their 1
^ (Continued on becond Pa^e.) |
RED FIRE APLENTY
ON THURSDAY NIGHT
I
Arrangements Are Progressing
Satisfactorily for Wil!
son Torchlight Procession, j
TO ILLUMINATE THE AVENUE,!
"Fifty thousand minutes of red
fire" is what is promised for the torchlight
parade in honor of the re-election
of President "Wilson. Robert X. Harper,
grand marshal of the parade, announced
today that it would toko place
Thursday night, and fireworks manufacturers
who will supply the lurid
decorations for the evening promised
enough of it to give Washington the
reddest evening it has had in its histoA.
The fifty thousand minutes of red fire
refers to the marching parade, as there
will be distributed to the marchers
enough red fire sticks, burning ten
minutes each, to make a total of
$33 2-3 hours burning time, which is
several days over a month. In other
words, the celebration to honor the reelected
President is going to burn up
a month's supply or red fire, in addition
to several hundred barrels of il
i um i natmg material win en will ue j
placed along Pennsylvania avenue.
Chorus to Practice Tomorrow.
The musical part of the jubilee is as-j
feuming important proportions. Several i
hundred men and women arc expected j
to join the chorus. It was announced j
today that any one who desires to join j
in the serenade should attend the re-j
hearsal which is to be held tomorrow
night at 8 o'clock in the rooms of the
Women's Wilson and Marshall League
it 15th and F streets northwest.
The serenade is being arranged by
the committee on vocal music, headed I
by Mrs. Charles H. Fred, and her vieei
hairmcir. Miss Lilian Chenoweth and
Mrs. Benjamin Soule Cantz. The chorus
wiil be led by Percy Foster.
The program of the serenade has not;
been completed, but Mrs. Fred said to- ]
jay that "Carry .Vie Back to Ole Yir- '
ginia." "The Star Spangled Banner" j
tnd "Dixie" would probably be sung.
The chorus will appear in the parade |
n automobiles and begin to sing when j
they arrive at the White House.
Nearby Towns to Be Represented.
Dozens of applications for places in
the parade were received today by Mr.
Harper. Among them was an application
from Edwin A. Halsey, speaking
for the employes of the United States
Senate. Another was from the Prince
ieorges county democratic organization.
Mr. Harper reiterated today his previous
announcement that persons who
wish to ioin ihc. nfiw??
lors'.baci. or in any way, should make |
i formal written application to him at
;he Distrh t National Batik building-.
Many Brince Georges county demorats
plan to uiar< h in the big parade.
Phe HyattsVille, Brentwood and Ki veriaie
clubs expect to march in a hody.
COLUMBIAN WAS WARNED
BEFORESHEWASSUNK;
[>y flu- Associated Press.
CORI'NNA, Spain. November 14.?,
."apt. Frederick Curtis of t?. American
steamer Columbian, who has arrived
liere with tin- re.- ?u?-d crew??f this steamship.
declared 10 a representative of the
\asociated 1'ress that he was a prisoner
>n board tin German submarine U-49
ror six days after the destruction of his
vessel. All of the 109 members of the
Columbian's crew were saved, Capt.
Curtis stated.
Capt. Curtis said the Columbian was
ivarned before she was torpedoed and
Mink by the U-49. The crew was left in
ifeboats and the captain was taken on
ooard the submarine.
HOLDS DP PACT WITH MEXICO.
Luis Cabrera's Objection Prevents
Afrrpement on Troons' Withdrawal.
ATLANTIC CITY, X. J . November 14.
?Vigorous opposition today by latisi [
faitrt-ra, chairman of the Mexican rep- 1
r?-aer.tation. prevented a formal agree- ;
merit i the M?- x irn n- Ain?-r corn- t
mission on th? principal and essential i
points of th* plan for the withdrawal ;
uf tlx Amcri'-aii troops from Mexico
and Of the other {Ue-stions that have
arisen between the two countries.
It I*-- errn known today that yesterday
whih* Mi t'abrera was in Philadelphia j
conferring with Rafael Mieto, suhseeretary
of the department of finance, far- j
ranza o'.Iht two representatives and ,
!:, ,\ m'-ri'-yn commissioners entered
Into an agreement which the Mexicans!
heiiev*"] would he ratified by Mr. !
i "a brers.
Wiien Cabrera appeared before the !
inn -10:1 today, hov.o v?-r. h?- objected i
to e?*rtai i.-rn, - in the proposed agree-!
na: '. and for an hour addressed the,
. mm r.s, protesting against the '
plan a- agr?-e?l r?? by the two other!
Mex; This unexjM eted opposition
by M? Cabrera is believed to have]
b. ought th? commissioners once more
? a position where a solution of the int?'i
national problems eannot be reached!
; e\? ral days at least.
DR. DUMBA NOT DEAD.
.
Vienna Denies Report of Former
Ambassador's Demise.
YIKNNA. November 14.?There it no !
inundation for the report recently pub- |
!i- bed in the Knited .Statin of the death \
of I?r. fonatanlin Duniba. former Aust
o-MonKarian ainlei -..dor to the t.pited
states.
WILSON MAY LOSE AN ELECTOR.
Idaho Man Chosen Disqualified Under
the State Law.
POISE, Idaho. Npvember 14.?Because
James E. Pincock, one of the four
democratic presidential electors chosen
in Idaho, also was a candidate for the
state legislature from Poster county
and a.s elected, Idaho's ? Iectoral vote,
instead of being four for President
Wilson, is likely to stand three for
Wilson and one for Hughes, it was reported
here today.
The law disqualified any presidential
elector who is also the holder of a
>tat?- position, and Pincock's eligibility
probably will be tested, political
leaders here say.
If he is disqualified the highest republican
elector may cast his vote,
f
FROBE OF ALLEGED
ELECTION FRAUDS
I
Federal Officials Collecting
Evidence Upon Which to Base
Senatorial Inquiry.
Micncr nc mdmcv puncr.cn
IfllvJUOL. VI IVIUIVU I V/IIMIIUUW ;
A senatorial Investigation of alleged
misuse of money in the presidential
campaign was announced definitely today
by administration officials. Preliminary
plans have been made and a
resolution providing the machinery for
the inquiry is ready to be introduced
soon alter Congress convenes next
month.
It was stated today that evidence was
being collected, but its details were
not disciosed. Tne plan is to call those
actually in charge of campaign finances
before the Senate committee
and investigate the details of their
transactions.
Various reports concerning use of 1
money in certain states have come to ;
democratic headquarters, as well as j
republican headquarters.
Attempts to Colonize Alleged.
Investigation into alleged attempts i
to colonize illegal voters in Indiana j
and West Virginia, particularly, was j
begun several weeks before the election.
In those states democratic lead- j
ers arc planning to contest the election
or Lniteu states senators. Uc.iorc j
tn<- polls na<J ciosed last Tuesuay
cnarges of corruption wore operuy ;
made bv democratic cnieftams, ann pre- i
dictions were treeJy circuiaa:u tuat tiposures
would ioiIow election.
Evidence Is being garnered upon
win en to base contests in the election
of Harry S. New and James E. V\ atsou
as senators lrom Indiana arid Kepre-.
sentativ* Howard Sutherland as senator
in West Virginia. New, on th" i
tace of trie Indiana returns, defeated I
majority Header iscrn arid n atsun won j
rrom bcnator Ta^gart. butntnana, in
West Virginia, acieated senator t_hil- j
ton.
ft has been charged by democrats
that negroes were coionized irom ihcj
south in states where tne republicans |
mumpiied r>y small majorities.
Will Come Before New Senate.
Jf contests are brought they will
have to be initiated in tne new Senate,
as each legislative body is the judge 01 j
its own members. The democrats wjli '
control the new Senate by a majority j
01 twelve votes.
Republicans Welcome Inquiry.
NEW YORK, November 14.?"The re-j
publican national committee will wel- J
come the fullest investigation of every j ,
penny spent by it," Cnairman William
K. Will cox of the committee said, here
today when Informed of tne steps for a
senatorial investigation announced at
wasnington. he sata tnat no enaig^sj
or information as to altered misuse ot .
funds in the cam^aiteri had necxi sent to !
any oiiiCiA.s m wasnington by txie re- , i
publican committee. j<
"Ridiculous,'' Says Chairman Hays. J
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., November 14.? ^
"Ridiculous," declared Will H. Hays, re- ]
publican state chairman, when inlormed ]
that the election of Harry S. New and
James E. Watson for the United States ,
Seriate probably would be contested.
"Every one who knows anytning | '
about the campaign ana election in i
Indiana," Mr. Hays added, "knows theyjj
were absolutely tree, from fraud or ir- j.
regularities whatsoever. We evidently!
hear the wailings of defeated gentle- j
men who cannot take their reversals jJ
gracefully." ! j
RECOUNTINCALIFORNIA l|
SHOWS WILSON GAINS1:
,
Scrutiny of Votes Being Watched;'
Closely by Both Republican and
Democratic Organizations.
i
SAX FRANCISCO. November 14. ? Of- '
flclal recount of the votes ?msL in lust
Tuesday': election is going on all over1'
California today, and, with 'the las!;
swinging along rapidly, no r? ports had
reached political headquarters liere
which would tend to alter tic general re-suits
of the unofficial canvass.
Ia h'a.fi Francisco President Wilson's ' j
lead was augmented by six votes, with j
about one-sixth of tie precincts recounted
by the board of election coinmis- j
sioners. j
The counting was watched closely by j
checkers, lawyers and expert account- i ,
ants employed by both the republican j
and democratic state organizations.
I'notlicial leports from other counties!
received at polities! headquarters regard- j'
ing the presidential recount showed in
all eases small gams for President Wilson, i
HUGHES LEAD JUMPS
TO 321 IN MINNESOTA
ST. PAUL., Minn., November 14.?Hennepin
county returns, official except for
one precinct, offset a big Hughes loss in
returns from county auditors received today.
The latest figures are: Wilson, 178.753;
Ilughts, 1.79,071 Hughes' plurality,
321.
Mi. Hughes' ! .ul in Minnesota previously
had been cut to below 200, with the :
final n-turns from the ten missing precincts
of Koochiching county, the complete
revised vote of St Louis county and 1
a small change in B.-eker county.
The Koochkhing missing precincts
were among those depended upon to help
Wilson materially. The soldier vote has
been practically a tie, with about GOO to i
hear from.
TO DEMAND A RECOUNT
OF WEST VIRGINIA VOTE ;
CHARLESTON, W. Ya., November |
14.?With the announcement by J. B.
Handlan, an attorney of Wheeling, that s
a recount of the ballots cast in Ohio 1
county November 7 would be "demanded
on behalf of President Wilson
and Senator Chilton," and that similar
recounts would likely be demanded in '
every county of the state, interest to- 1
day centered on the disposition of the \
(Continued on Second Page.) i
I
V?
w
HOUMIE WRECK
IS FATAL TO TWO MEN
Engineer J. J. Goodwin and Fireman
Edward Trumbull Dead.
Twelve Are Injured.
Two are dead?the engineer and lireman?and
eleven passengers and tinonductor
v.ire slightly injured as the
-esult of a Southern Railway wreck in
:he yards at Charlottesville, Ya., at
t o'clock this morning, when northbound
passenger train No. 32, over that
ine from Jacksonville, Fla., to New
i'ork, side-wiped a train of freight
cars in the south end of the railroad
yards at Charlottesville.
The dead: James J. Goodwin, engineer,
ibout forty-seven years old, Alexandria,
killed instantly.
Kdward Trumbull, about thirty-eight
nar; old, fireman. Alexandria, died
n a Charlottesville hospital live hours
if tor the accident.
Kngincer Goodwin was scalded and
badly cut and bruised and when his
body was taken from the cab it was
ifeless.
Fireman Trumbull was scalded and
ilso received cuts and bruises on the
lead. He was rushed to a Charlottesville#
hospital and it was at first
thought that he had a chance to recover,
but he died in the hospital at
10:20 o'clock, evidently being internally
injured.
List of the Injured.
Those who received minor cuts and
bruises include: \Y. Kallaman, Baltimore:
Samuel Im-liendram, Baltimore;
It. <\ Lax ton, Morgantoa n, X. <*.; Ik B.
Johnson. Rock Hill. S. <\. W. Whit#-,
Ardf.ioiHa.; ii. \an 1)#.: Linda and
v. i*' . auii'iruii, .Mass.; Mrs. Silwrtooth,
>liv? Mountain, Miss.; Af. R. But man.
Philadelphia; Miss May Me Fee, Black
Mountain, N. Mak Triever,. Baltimoro.
' Conductor O. AW I-oving of Charlotte,
X. C., who was in charge of the train,
htid his neck sprained and received
minor bruises and cuts, but proceeded
with his train a short time after the
accident.
Ail of those injured received treatment
before leaving Charlottesville.
The passengers then proceeded to their
destination on train No. H> from Charlottesville.
The engine of the wrecked train was
badly damaged, although not overturned.
hour freight cars which it
struck, some of which were loaded
with lumber, were demolished! It was
about noon before the tracks were
cleared of the debris. Both northbound
and southbound traffic was delayed
until that hour as a result of the
accident.
The engineer and fireman had taken
oharge of the train at Monroe, Va.
Both Victims Leave Families.
Engineer Goodwin lived at 1.111 King
street, Alexandria, and, besides his
wife, leaves two daughters and one
son. He had been employed in railroad
work for about a quarter of a century.
He was chief engineer of the
local Brotherhood of Boconiotive Engineers
and was a member of Alva
Aerie, No. 871, Fraternal Order of
Eagles, and Alexandria Nest, No. 1779;
Drder of Owls.
Fireman Trumbull at times had
served as an extra engineer. He leaves
his wife and one daughter and lived
*t 1010 King street. Mr. Trumbull had
been employed on the road for about
vphtk He was a member of the
Brotherhood of Firemen.
The bodies of both are expected to
Arrive in Alexandria and be taken to,
Lheir late homes tonight.
Leading Educator Among Injured, j
Dr. I>. B. Johnson, president of WinLhrop
College and president of the .\aLionai
Education Association, was j
unong the injured. He is suffering
from contusions and tixu. wfa
leek is^prained.
AN IMPORTANT ITEM.
REDOUBLE EFFORTS
AHAIM^T RUMANIA
nuniiiui numnnin
Powerful Austro-Germanfleinforcements
Sent to Region
of Orsova.
j
BOTH SIDES GAIN AND LOSE
I
j
i P.y thf Associated Prcsp.
j LONDON", November 14, 12:05 p.m.?
: Redoubled efforts are being made by
the Austrian* and Germans against
j Rumania, Reuter's Bucharest corre;
spondcnt reports. Pow erful Teutonic
j reinforcements have been sent to the
' region of Orsova, on the Danube, in
Hungary, near the Rumanian border.
In this region the struggle is continuing
stubbornly, every effort being
, made by th>- Austrian.* and Germans
to recapture the. town and re-establish
communications,by way of the Danube.
Fighting also is especially severe at
two jioints iri the Carpathians, at Oltanic
and in the Jiul valley, where the
invaders are seeking to break through
to Craiova.
Tide of Battle Fluctuates.
"In Transylvania Germanic attacks
in the Trotus. Oituz and Tirgujiuly
valleys have been repulsed, according
I to Petrogracf. in ttie Alt vaJIey the
| persistent attacks of the Austro-Ger;
man forces succeeded !n forcing: back
I tin* Rumanian troops slightly. In the
j Jiul valiey the Germans have taken
possession of the village of Bunibeshti.
Between the L'zul valley ana tiie ?hi'
ley of the Jtiver Casio the Germans
i have attacked without interruption
; from October 29 until today, according
I to Bucharest. All attacks have been
i repulsed in sanguinary manner, it is
l claimed. The Rumanians eounter-atj
tacked and captured two officers,
j eighty-one men, three machine guns
3 and some war material.
A Rumanian flotilla arrived yesteri
day at Seimeni on the Danube north of
Tchernavoda and bombarded the Germans'
left flank.
German Prince at Front.
A prince of the house of Hohenzollern
is on the Rumanian front, it is
announced officially in Berlin. The
statement follows:
"A prince of Hohenzollern, with the
German troops fighting against Rumania,
said in a speech during a dinner
at the headquarters of the 9th
Army that by his presence with the
army he desired to express as a German
his feeling of indignation against
Rumania's breach of faith."
Serbs and French Gain.
Sunday, in co-operation with the
French, the Serbians continued the pur
suit of the enemy northward and cap1
tured the village of Iven (on the Cerna
northeast of Polog).
j Allied booty comprised sixteen field
I guns, twenty-one caissons, fourteen
! limbers and a alrge quantity of artillery
a #d infantry ammunition, rifles
and other material, according to Serbian
advices. The number of prisoners
is not yet known. Enemey dead
strewed the battlefield, it is claimed.
Russians Retire, Say Germans.
BERLIN, November 14, by wireless to
Sayville.?Russian forces have retired
from the Gyergryo mountains, in northern
Transylvania, to the Rumanian
frontier as a result of German and
Austro-Hungarlan attacks, says today's
German official statement. To the
south of Tulgh?-s pass, the statement
I adds, Bavarian and Austro-Hungarian
battalions made progress despite the
1 tenacious defense of the Rumanians. j
Entente forces have attacked tho j
! German-Bulgarian lines on the Monastir
plain, the war office announced in I
reference to lighting along the Macedonian
front. The battle still is in |
progress both plailL an?l north
?
CARROLL GRAYSON GALT
ENDS LIE WITH POISON
Was Son of the Late Walter A. Gait.
Deelarod He Wanted
| ' to Die.
| Carroll Grayson Gait, twenty-seven
! years old, son of the late Walter A. Gait
j and nephew of the late Norman Gait,
I died at Emergency Hospital about noon
I today, thirty minutes after he was found
Jut 1421 G street. where he declared he
j had taken poison because he, wanted to
die. The statement was repeated to Dr.
Sanderson, member of the staff at
! Emergency Hospital.
j Coroner Nevitt this afternoon viewed
the body in the hospital morgue, heard
i Dr. Sanderson's statement of the affair
and gave a certificate of suicide,
j Ft is believed by Dr. Sanderson that
I the young man took fully 12G grains of
I the poison. It was the kind of poison
j that is not safeguarded by the Harrison
drug law. a discussion of which created
l surprise among members of the Northeast
Washington Citizens" Association
; members at last night's meeting,
i So far as the police are able to as- {
certain, the young man wrote no note:
of explanation, nor did he suggest why j
he had taken the poison, other than to j
say: "I want to die."
Shortly after 11 o'clock today- he ap- '
! peared in the rooms of the United i
States Poster Company, third floor of j
1421 G street, and his conduct aroused
the suspicions of one of the employes,
who questioned him as to why he was !
handling a bottle marked "Poison." j
Gait stated that he was taking it be- ;
cause of an illness he was suffering and i
| the bottle that had been taken from I
his hand was returned to him.
! Leaving the rooms of the poster com- ;
j pany, Gait went io the pavement. He,
j returned a few minutes later, howj
ever, and persons in the office noticed 1
!a peculiarly colored substance in his
1 mouth, and, it is stated, he told of havI
itiLT taken nnison.
j Descending the stairway 1<? th?|
ground floor. Gait loft the building and
I wandered into Duther .McMillan's sa-j
loon, where he askt-d the proprietor to
call an ambulance.
"What's the matter?" McMillcu in- 1
quired.
' I've taken poison," was his slow response.
"That's light," he added, *'I took
those tablets."
"Wanted to Die," He Said.
McMillen telephoned Emergency Hospital
and brought Dr. Sanderson. The
physician saw at a glance that Mr.
Halt's condition was so desperate that
lie probably would not live long. Gait !
was fully conscious at that time, how- j
ever, and able to answer "Because I ;
wanted to die," when asked why he !
had taken the poison. Thirty minutes
later life was gone.
Carroll Gait had a host of friends in '
this city. He resided at the home of J
j his mother, 8 Oxford street. Chevy j
Chase, Md. He attended the University
of Virginia several years ago and I
while there, it is stated, he conducted j
a small store for the benefit of a mis- | ,
sionary society. #
At McMillen's restaurant, where, it is I'
stated, he was well known, it was I '
said this afternoon that he had been !
on. the "water wagon ' for a long time 1
until recently, and persons who saw j
him in that vicinity this morning said !
he presented the appearance of being !
under the influence of liquor. Later
they expressed the belief that he had
taken a small quantity of the poison
at that time.
Mrs. Gait, mother of the deceased,
hurried to the hospital as soon as she
was notified he was there under treatment.
She did not reach the Institution,
however, in time to see him alive, j
the only relative to arrive before he ]
died being a brother-in-law. j
Friends of the dead man this after- .
noon declared that he had been imbibing
rather freely since his wife entered *
suit for divorce against him in the cir- 1
cuit court at Rockville. Court records (
show that Attorneys Daniel W. Baker
of this city and Thomas W. Dawson of
Rockville instituted the proceedings i
October 9 last. Counsel stated that do- i
sertion and drunkenness were alleged c
in the bill. Last week an order was ?
made allowing Mrs. Gait ?10 a month I
alimony.
It is set out in the bill of complaint
that the couple were married in Baltimore,
January 27, 1912, and that the
husband deserted the wife shortly
thereafter; that Setember 12, 1913, a 1
reconciliation was effected and the 1
I <?oupln went to Atlantic City, where the t
defendant is accused of deserting the e
wife three days later, i
PRESIDENT MAY GO
ON WESTERN TRIE
Strongly Urged to Visit Sectioi
of the Country Which
Stood by Him.
NO CABINET MEETING HELC
President Wilson is expected to niak
a tour of the west as soon us ho cai
spare time for the trip. Telegrams ar
beginning to roach him urging that h
visit the section of the country "whic;
went so glori^isly for you." and west
ern men in Washington do not se
how he can decline the invitations, ii
view of the loyalty of the west to hir
and his frequent promise* j*1 the pus
1 n vl<jit flint Mention Mr Wilson ha
not been west since 1912, when he wa
a candidaate for election. Tie arrange'
an itinerary for a visit there, but tli
foreign situation compelled him to re
main lit home. He intended to go t
the San Francisco exposition as iii
objective.
S. H. Thompson, assistant attorne
general, today laid before Secretar
Tumulty a telegram from the editor o
the Denver Post urging the Presiden
to come west at his earliest conveni
ence. Thanksgiving, da y is suggested a
a good time .for the trip, but it is no
thought the President would want t
make the journey then.
Cabinet Meeting- Canceled.
President Wilson canceled the Tuesday
cabinet meeting and saw no visit
ors today. That is, he made no ap
pointments. He remained in his stud}
going over the immense amount of cor
respondence that confronted him upo
his return, many of the messages bein;
election congratulations that he mus
personally acknowledge. He will no
be able to write answers to the one
hundredth part of these congratula
lions, but some of them are so persona
as to call for his attention.
The fact that President Wilson doe
not Intend to make any change in hi
cabinet w"en March 1 rolls arouin
will, it is believed, discourage effort
on loot to promote the interests o
various men who loom up as cahiiatimber.
Senators Hansdell and Brous
sard of Louisiana are reported to b<
preparing to urge the President t<
name John AT. Parker of New Or lean:
to-a cabinet place. Parker, because o
his personal regard for Roosevelt, be
came a leader in the progressive move
meat more than four years ago. H<
did not like Roosevelt's desertion o
tne progressive party tor Hughes am
in the campaign just closed led th<
efforts to round up progressives fo:
Wilson. '
The I'resident, it was said today
would like to find places for some de
feated senators and representatives
but cannot appoint them to boards an<
commissions created by Congress, be
cause of legal restrictions against il
Doremus Is in Doubt.
Representative Frank Doremus
chairman of the democratic congres
sional committee, was at the Whit<
House today, lie is i:i serious doubt a,
to the political complexion of the nex
House. "My information is that tin
democrats have elected 212 member
of the House, the republicans 211 ant
there are 9 doubtful districts," said Mr
Doremus, "A few votes change in tin
official counts may change the majority
one way or the other.
"As to the independents who will b<
in the next House, nobody has any ide;
how they will vole. We have reasot
to expect a number of them to sidt
with the democrats as to organization
but this is mere speculation. Tb? - mei
have until :? yr:-.v from in xt Decembe:
to ?i. tennine their course. ami thii
course may Iw determined entirely In
ev.-nts arising between now and then.'
No Saturday Half Holiday Yet.
President Wilson will not give con
sideration to the subject of Saturda:
i icLii uuiiuaja .in tiie \ear ruunu unil
all his*~cabinet officers have made re
ports to him. Two of these officers
Postmaster General Burleson and Sec
retary Daniels of the Navy Department
have not submitted answers to his re
quest for expression of their views a:
to the desirability of half holidays al
the year.
It is generally believed around th<
White House that the President wil
take the natter up with tin- cabinet a'
tile lirst meeting; to be held.
Thanksgiving Proclamation Delayed
The customary Thanksgiving proclamation
from the White House is great
lv delayed this year. t'sually it if
issued almost a month before tin
Thanksgiving date, but President Wilson
has deferred writing the proclamation.
Tlie date to be lixed is the .Totl:
of this month, ami the time is just a
little over two weeks off. The proclamation
is expected to b?* issued within
a day or two.
NORWEGIAN WARCRAFT
FIRES ON GERMAN SHIP
COPENHAGEN, Denmark, Novcmbei
14, via London, 1 p.m.?The Alorgenbladt
says that a Norwegian torpedc
boat has fired upon a German steamei
which refused to stop when passing
Stavanger. The Norwegian tired s
shot at the rigging, the newspapei
says, "then boarded the steamer and
dismantled her wireless.
Since the beginning of the war foreign
ships have not been permitted tc
carry wireless installation when in
Norwegian waters.
CONTINUES INDEPENDENT.
U. S. Not Likely to Protest Against
Deportation of Belgians.
The United States lias not and probably
will not join with Spain, the Vatican
or the Netherlands in a protest
igainst deportation of Belgians into
Germany, it was officially stated here
:oday, and reports from abroad to that
sffect were declared untrue.
The United States will preserve its
ndependence of action in this case as
n the many others which have arisen
luring the war. Tile administration is
nucli concerned over the deportation,
jut has not yet taken official action.
Rulers Congratulate President.
Ke-electiou congratulations have been
eceived by President Wilson from
ulers of several foreign nations, but
heir names will not be given out until
ifter the President's re-election is for
rrrr
BRITISH PRESS ON
'! IN NEW BIG DRIVE
<: INANCREREGIONS
i London Confirms Capture of
i Beaumont-Hamel?4.000
' Prisoners Taken.
e! r -
MUCH PROGRESS MADE
* ON FIVE-MILE FRONT
p j
r, j Greatest Obstacles Surmounted.
" French Check German Attack
s, in Champagne.
S j
d J
e '-By tiio dated 1'rt
- ! LONDON, November 14..?With im0
: portant ground on a five-mile front als
| ready won from the Germane on the
j northern edge of *hc isommo region
y and across the Ancre brook, in oorth^
ern France, the British are fighting on
t in their new offensive. Already they
- have taken more titan 1,000 prisoner-.
* ; and the number is reported increasing
,j | considerably.
London officially onfii -us ti e news
of t h" eapture of Beaumont-Ilamol.
north of the Aitcn-, one of the strong
est points in the German defensive line
' in this region. Kt i .ish troops stormed
- ! this heavily fortified position, and far"
thct* south aUvancd to the edge of
~ 1 Beaucourt-sur-Ancre.
,l; Apparently the British are not reg
i laxing their pressure now that tliey
it have succeeded in materially sharpenitiing
the salient in the German line by
- their advance up the Ancre valley.
- Miraumont. on th?* Albert-Bapaumo
il! railway, and ultimately Aehiet le
Grand, an important railway junction
s | point northwest of B ipaume, seemingly
s are the British objectives.
1 Paris reports German activity in tbo
s Champagne region, where an attack on
f the French liivs near Anbcriv* by a
t strong hostile detachment is declared to
- liavc bv.-n repulsed.
j Miraumont Threatened.
f ! Tli'- latest British advance north of
- I Serre, in conjunction with that on the
Schwaben-Lc t?ars line, threatens the
j envelopment of Miraumont, 011 the Albert3
Arras railway.
e From unofficial reports yesterday's atr
tack by the British appears to extend
along a front of nearly eight thousand
yards, from the Grandcourt-Pojtieres
- road to a point considerably north of
Beaumont-Ilamel. ?
d i
- . Account Prom the Front.
' WITH THB BRITISH IN
1 FRANGK. November J3.? .Attacking on a
. ; front of nearly five miles on both sides
<?f the Ancre river in mist and uarltness
e j early yesterday morning, the British
s l made a further breach in the original
t 'German front line. Thcv captured the
strorigly fortified villages of Bcaumonte
! Hamel and St. Pierre Divion and gained
b 1 new ground, which already has reached a
3 depth of more than a mile at one point.
Severe fighting continues beforo
Beaucourt-Sur- Ancre. on the north
3 bank of the river, and 011 the high
, j ground about midway between .Serro
' and Beaucourt-Sur-Ancre. west of the
a ; road linking those villages.
! Notwithstanding the long-ppr evading
1 'bad weather, with almost continuous
, rains, the attacking troops made good
" 1 progress in No-Mat "s land, th- mud
* having partially dried in ih last two
days. They v m-c u?)t impede,: str.ou s.
ly i... the tkriiiiiii machine guns
Germans Are Surprised.
| The Germans were apparently com'
nlatalr cnrnrivoii liv til., attack M tllo
- ! valley of the Anere. An evidence of
i ; this was found in the fact that the
1 j garrison of the trenches around Beau
mont Haniel were preparing for break>.
' fact at the very moment when the
- British infantry stormed the position,
j The British, after partially clearing
' the underground galleries and ruund"
' ing up 700 prisoners, proceeded to eat
s their prisoners' breakfast telling tho
j captives th.it they would be fed when
they arrived within the- British lines.
Officers Are Captured.
t A total of nearly 4.000 prisoners has
so far been sent to the cages, including
^ a regimental commander wlnV was cap.
tured in a dugout v. ith a major, an adjutant
arid : number of "tin r officers.
| The majority of the prisoners are
; Silesians and, aoording i" the British
! olticers, very inferior fighting material.
, The tJernian higher . .. ntmand uepended
' apparently oil the supposedly impregnable
character "f tin- old tr*mi* line
and its strongly fortified villages ratiicv
than on the stmaina of the troop:., ."lie
British officers bellow that the C.?rmans
withdrew their la-st men for rvice
elsewhere on the British front
v here the new and shallower positions
to which tho defenders hay.- been
forced demand greater resisting power
on the part of I'm. inf:im.;-\.
3ritisli Losses Light.
i The British losses v. re u usually
: light, owing largely to the unexpected1..
i-kf til.-. .....
t chine gun lire :it Beaumont-Humel and
- St. Pierre Divion. l^urge numbers of
r German dead were found strewn in the
l wrecked trenches of the original main
line. This line consisted of four parall
lei roads of trenches, the last being:
flush with the western face of Beau
mont-Hamel.
For 6om<? days past the sector at1
tacked and the area behind have been
i subjected to successive bombardments
which rose to a record pitch and resulted
in the demolition of a large
part of the defenses. The garrison accepted
the morning's deluge of shells
as part of the usual daily program and
did not fully realize their danger until
the British infantry was seen approaching
in the darkness.
Held Up on 1,000-Yard Front.
The British advance north of Beaumont-Hamel
was held up on a front
about 1.000 yards west of Serre. The
first detachment captured some German
trenches and passed eastward to
THRIFT AND PROFIT.
The school children of Washington
are learning thrift through The
Star's plan of asking the public to
nave the newspapers after reading
them for the school children's playground
fund.
More than a hundred thousand
pounds have already been collected.
.Call Main 6000 and ask for the
nearest public school and anr accumulation
of old papera will be
sent for. m
