NEW SAND AT HEALDTON PROMISES TO ADD ANOTHER MILLION OF WEALTH
VOLUME TWENTY-FOUR.
ARDMORE, OKLA., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1916.
NUMBER 33.
BRITISH SURPRISE GERMANS
EATING TB BREAKFAST
.
FOUR THOUSAND GERMANS PRISONERS IN SUR-
PRISE ATTACK BY BRITISH 1 'E ANCRE VALLEY
vrciconAV MORMNr. "'.
BEHOLD THE QUADRENNIAL "NUTS,"
PAYING THEIR FREAK ELECTION BETS
British Ate Breakfast Which Had Been Prep&.ed for Teutons, .
Telling Latter they would be Fed when they Arrived in
the British Lines. Berlin Admits Capture by British of I
Beaumont, Hamel and St. Pierre Divion Paris Reports,
Repulse of German Attacks Last Night west of Aubriue j
in the Champagne District Stubborn Resistance of the I
Germans Near Anore Yesterday Caused Heavy Losses to 1
the Germans, Berlin Admits Today British Victory Yes-1
terday Makes Another Dent in the German Lines. j
With the British armies in
France Nov. 11. The Germans
were so completely surprised
yesterday morning in their at
tack in the Ancre Valley, that
they were preparing breakfast
when the British stormed the
trenches around Beaumont
Hamel.
After the capture, the Brit
ish ate the prisoners' breakfast,
telling them they would be fed
when they arrived in the Brit
ish lines.
A total of nearly 4,000 pris
oners were taken by the British.
Admit British Gains.
Berlin. Nov. 14. The Germans' stub
burn defense of their positions neur
Anore, which the British attacked yes
terday, cauBed the defenders to suffer
important losses, it is officially an
nounced. The capture by the Dritish
of Heaumont, Hamel and St. Peere
Divion is reported.
EL RENDU
FIHNI) AT
HEALDTON
ALVA M'DON ALD, LEADING PRO
GRESSIVE OF OKLAHOMA,
MAKES AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
German Attacks Repulsed.
Paris, Nov. 14. Strong German at
tacks last night west of Aubriue In
the Champagne district were checked
by the French, it is officially an
nounced. Artillery fighting south of
the Somnie in the vicinity of Perssoic
is reported.
Many Taken Prisoners.
London, Nov. 14. More than four
thousand prisoners have been taken
by the British in the Ancre lighting,
it is officially reported. '
BUILDING MANY VESSELS.
Nearly One Thousand Ships Built in
U. S. During Ten Months.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 14. The
department of commerce announces
"'tis sailing, steam, gas ami unrigged
vessels, aggregating 0.",sn4 gross
tons, were built in the I'niled States
during the ten months ending No
vember 1. In addition forty-seven
vessels were constructed for foreigners.
PAID HIM "HUSH MONEY"
He
Victim Identified Man to Whom
Paid Five Thousand Dollars.
Cincinnati, O.. Nov. 14. It became
known today that Thomas J. Corcoran
of Cincinnati, has identified George
Hush of New York as one of three
men, who cn October 137 19'3. ob
tained five thousand dollars from him
by presenting themselves as federal
officers and charging him with viola
tion of the Mann white slave act.
Hush Is being held in New York.
PASSING OF A PIONEER
Man Who Accompanied David Crock
ett to Texas Dies at Franklin.
Franklin. Tex.. Nov. 14. Newton C
Duncan, aged SO. who when a boy ac
companied David Crockett to Texas,
Is dead at Wheeler. He was at Fort
Conrho when Lieutenant Fitzhugh
l.ee humped from a bluff with an In
dian brace In a hand to hand encounter.
unaaatjannaaB
A new sand of a thickness that
makes it look important and that is
making oil of 34 gravity has been
found In section 3:1-3-3 by the Healdton
field Oil company. This company is
owned principally by Alva McDonald
and Judge Frank Gillette of El Reno.
Okla. The company owns the second
ten acres from the southeast ' corner
of 33-3-3 and iu the south line of the
section adjoining the Geneva-Pearl
property on the south in section 4.
The well is in the northwest corner
of the 10 acres. The company drilling
here missed the 1100-foot sand but
gave orders for a deeper test. II. K.
Highnote was the drillei. He is the
man who In the early days of the field
drilled the sensational well in section
32-3-3. The sand was reached on the
Healdton Field lease at 1230 feet. It
has been penetrated to a depth of
forty feet, the production is estimated
at 250 barrels, and the oil Is of a bet
ter grade than the average Healdton
crude. It is believed By some to be
the same sand as was round by the
Gates company In section 13 and
known as the Simpson sand.
The new sand promises to open up
lands that will be worth millions to
Healdton field owners and already
many sales have been made. The
county records the past few days re
veal that purchases have been made
In ::3-3-3 and In 3 4-3-3 and It Is certain
that there will be some spirited dril
ling in that direction. The sand
promises to make Important north
east extensions and it Is also probable
that the sand will reach back under
the producing area there and underlie
much of the proven field. Oil men
state that unless all rules of oil pro
duction fail that the new sand will be
worth more than the shallow produc
tion and it m-.re than doubles the
value of property wherever It reaches.
Alva McDonald and Judge Gillette
will be congratulated by their friends
who sincerely wish them the great
est success with their venture In the
southern fields.
- ,1 V ,.. - fey j
l . f v IVVVs ;rV-t .vl J
p V-A sJfTi " . ' ' ' '
4 O O PAYING FREAK FLECTION BET? O
TO INVESTIGATE
CAMPAIGN FUNDS
A SENATORIAL INVESTIGATION
INTO THE ALLEGED MISUSE OF
MONEY IN CAMPAIGN.
COLLECTING EVIDENCE
When the election returns seemed
to indicato with certainty the re-elec
tion of President Wilson, the usual
aftermath of a presidential election,
the paying of freak election bets show
ed itself on the streets of the large
cities. The barefoot man in evening
garb, the fellow with the coat Inside
out, the man in the wheelbarrow, the
"nut" wearing a barrel, the ono who black one and paraded Broadway, New
voted for the wrong man and proclaim-I York, taking care, according to fin
ed that fact with voice and placard i terms of her wager, to let passersby
all these and many more varieties ap-jget the magpie elTect. The man In the
peared In all the foolishness. Of : picture Is trying to blow a peanut a
course women were numbered among i whole city block. He has turned his
them. One of them, shown in tho pic- coat inside out and has donned a
ture. donned a white stocking and a 'boudoir cap
HOUSE (ITU BLIZZARD OVER TO ESTABLISH
IS00UBTF0L 10LECOUNTHV PROTECTIVE
I t ti nirr
; i nun i
Those in Charge of Campaign Finances
to Be Called Before Senate Commit
tee for Investigation of Details of
All Transactions.
Washington, Nov. 14 A senatorial
investigation into alleged misuse of
money In tho prrshb'iitlal campaign
is aiinoiiiici il definitely by the adminis
tration ollichils. A resolution to that
licet will be introduced In congress
next inontli.
Klienee is un being collected, but
the details are not disclosed.
It is planned to call those in charge
of campaign linani es before the senate
committee and investigate the details
of all transactions.
Various reports, concerning the use
of money in certain states, have comn
to democratic ami republican head
iiuai'ters. An Investigation Into the alleged
attempts to colonize voters In .Indiana
and West Virginia, particularly, was
begun several weoRs before the elec
tion. In those slates' the democrats
plan to contest t lie election of United
States senators. Before the polls
closed on election day, charges of cor
ruption were openly made by the dem
ocratic chieftains.
BRAKEM AN SERIOUSLY INJURED
Van Saunders Suffering from Concus
sion at Hardy Hospital.
Van Saunders, a brakemnn on the
Frisco on the run between Ardmore
and Madill, was seriously injured in
the yards here yesterday. It seems
that he wa on one train that moved
on to a Biding but did not unite clear
and a passing train struck bint. He
was removed to the Hardy Hospital
suffering from concussion. He is not
paralyzed anil his senses are slowly
returning, anil Dr. Hardy Is of the
opinion that lie will reoover,
CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEE SAYS
CONTROL OF HOUSE IS STILL IN
DOUBT.
COLD WAVE REPORTED WITH
TEMPERATURE OF TEN BE
LOW IS COLDEST POINT TODAY
NINE HOT DECIDED FREEZE WAS GENERAL
I'rbana No. 6 In section 31-3-3 has
reached the top of the sand and will
be drilled in at once.
In Nine Districts Result for Congress
is Still in Doubt ' Hughes' Lead
Reduced in Minnesota Foreigners
Congratulate Wilson.
T. F. Maloney left here today for
Roff, where he and Paul Smith are
drilling a well In Pontotoc county.
Washington, Nov. 14. Representa
tive Dure ni us, chairman of the demo
cratic congressional committee, says
the control of the house is still doubt
ful, because nine districts are still in
doubt.
tii , net' Lead Cut Down.
St. Paul. Minn.. Nov. 14 With the
vote of the five hundred Minnesota
guardsmen uncounted. Hughes is lead
ing by 133 votes in the state.
In Ardmore Temperature Was Eigh
teen Above. While Freezing Tern-
REPRESENTATIVE OF THIS GOV
ERNMENT SAYS AMERICAN
MANUFACTURERS MAY HAVE
TO BUILD PLANTS IN ENGLAND.
New York, Nov. II If the Ameri
can manufacturers desire to retain
their position in the English markets
perature Extends as Far South as jafter the war, they may be under the
Mexican Border Coldest for Texas
T!e local weather bureau reports
minimum temperature of Is almve
in .Vdmore this morning. Continued
colli is predicted for tonight witli
rising temperature tomorrow.
necessity of building plants in Kng
land. says Pierce ('. Williams, I'nlted
States commercial attache of Ixmdon,
who is now here. All Indlcatidn.s are
that a protective tariff will be In ef
fect In the t'nited Kingdom after the
war. he said.
URGE DAYLIGHT SAVING
700th ANNIVERSARY
Order of Preachers of Caholic Church
Celebrate in Washington,
Washington, 'Nov. 14. Tho celebra
tion of the seventh centennary of the,
Dominican Order known as the Order
of Preachers of tho Catholic church.
began here today with pontifical high
mass. Tile celebration, which Is being
observed throughout the world, marks
the 7"ith anniversary of the confirm
ation of the order by the church, tli
approval being given ty Pope Honor-
Ions Third In 121G.
VILLA TROOPS WITHDRAW
Congratulations to Wilson.
Washington. Nov. 14. Congratula-
Blizzard From Rockies East.
W ashington. I). C., Nov. 14. A cold
wave from the Kocky mountains
eastward bound and freezing temper-1
ature as far south as the Mexican
i bonier was reported today. Tander.
Wvnmlng. with temperature of I'l
lie low was the coldest point.
A. R. McLennan of the I'rbana Oil -Hons have been received by President J
company is here today from Lawton.
WEATHER FORECAST
n
a New Orleans, La.. Nov. 14.
The weather forecast for Ok
a lahoma ror tonight is fair with
a temperature of 12 to 18 de
a grees. Wednesday fair with
n slowly rising temperature.
a
naaaaaaaaaaaaa
Maloney Selling Out
H. W. McQueen, president of the
Maloney Oil and Gas company, ho
has been here from Kansas City, has
returned home. Mr. McQueen was
here attending to matters in connec
tion with the sale of the Maloney com
pany's holdings to the Magnolia Pe
troleum company. The property
which is being negotiated consists of
ten acres located In the northeast
of the northwest of section 9-4-3. It
has four wells with a production of
about 300 barrels and has 15,000 bar
rels of storage oil
Wilson from several foreign rulers, I
but their names mill not be given out
until after the republicans formally
concede his re-election.
SAMONS BOYCOTT MERCHANTS
Twenty-Two at Fort Worth.
Fort Worth. Tex.. Nov. 1 1. The
mercury reached 22 degrees here this
morning, establishing a new record
for November.
Railroads to Be Asked to Turn Clocks
of Country Forward One Houri
New York. Nov. 1. American rail-
'roads will be asked by the American
I Daylight Saving commission to take
(the Jnitlative in putting into effect
next summer the proposed plan to
I turn the clocks forward one hour In
this country, it Is announced today.
The commission holds a convention
on January ?, and in the meantime
will confer with the railroad presi
dents.
Those About Chihuahua Withdrawing
and More Carrancistas Arrive.
Washington, Nov. 14 The Vlllls-
ta troops are withdrawing from around
ftvjhuahua City and more Carranza
troops are arriving there. Secretary
Lansing is advised today. Nothing
has been heard from Parral, which
the Vllllstas were reported to have
capturt-d.
GUARD MANEUVER POSTPONED.
Owing to High Price of Food, Natives
Boycott the Dealers.
Record for November Weather.
San Antonio. Ten, Nov. 14 The
mercury reached 2S degrees here this
morning, which is a new November
record.
BUILDING NEW SUBMARINE
I
Merchant Submarine to Replace Bre
men Now Being Built.
Washington. Nov. 14. i Another
Trans-Atlantic merchant submarine to
t replace the Ilremen Is being built in
K. Germany. Site is said to be modeled
Pacopago, Samoa. Nov. 1. Owing :
to the high prices of food on Tutulla Almost Frozen to Death.
Island, the Samoans have boycotted I Fort Worth. Tex.. Nov. 14. R.
'be dealers. The merchants have Callaoay stumbled and fell against a jafter the Deutsrhland. It Is announced
cancelled their outstanding orders rock during last night's blizzard. He I that the Deutsrhland won't carry reg
and amalt action by the Island gov-1 was found this morning almost frozen 'ular malls on her return trip because
ernment to stop the boycott Ito death. 'of a failure to agree on rates.
On Account of Weather Conditions
To Be Held Thursday.
Ilrownsvllle, Tex., Nov. 14. The
proposed maneuver of the guard or
ganizations of nine states, planned
to begin tomorrow, has been post
poned until Thursday owing to the
weather. These maneuvers will be
the most extensive yet held.
STORM NEARINQ CUBA
Storm Warnings Ordered Displayed on
Gulf Coast.
Washington, Nov. 14. The tropical
storm Is today reported approaching
the estern end of Cuba and storm
warnings are displayed on the Gulf
coast and east coast of southern Florida.
