THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 206.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BRITISH
TAKE A
TOWN
Officially Report Their Cap
turc of Beaumont-Hamel
and With It More Than
4,000 German Prisoners,
Having Apparently Taken
Defenders by Surprise
HARDER RESISTANCE
WAS MET AT SERRE
The Attack Was Carried Out
Along- a Five-Mile Front,
and in Some Places the
British Penetrated to a
Distance of a Mile Al
most All the Objectives
Were Seized
With important ground in a five-mile
front already won from the Germans on
the northern edge of the Somme region
and across the Ancre brook in northern
France, the British are fighting on in
their new offensive. London officially
confirms the capture of Beaumont-Ham'
el, one of the strongest points of the Ger
man defensive. British troops stormed
this position and further south advanced
to the edge of Beaucourt-sur-Ancre.
Apparently the British are not relax
ing their pressure now that they have
succeeded in materially sharpening the
salient in the German line by their ad
vance up the Ancre valley, as London
says the battle is continuing. Mira-
mount on the Albert-Bapaume railway
and ultimately Achiet-le-Grand, an im
portant railway junction point north
west of Bapaume, seemingly are the
British objectives.
On the eastern front in the Carpathians
the Russians appear to be holding their
own, Petrograd reporting the repulse of
Austro-German attacks in this region.
They captured the strongly fortified vil
Inge of Beaumont-Hamel and St. Pierre
division and famed new ground wtilcn
already has reached a depth of more than
a mile at one point. Two thotiHand pris
oners already have been taken to the
cages.
Severe flchtintr continues before Beau
court-Sur-Ancre, on the north bank of
the river and on the high ground about
midway between Serre ami Bequcourt,
went of the road linking those villugcs.
Notwithstanding the loufc prevailing
bad weather with almost continued rains,
the attacking troops made good prog
ress in No Man's Iand, the mud having
partially dried in the last two days.
They were not impeded seriously by the
German machine guns.
The attack appears to have been a sur
prise to the German.
South of the Ancre the British line
swept northeast to the river bank op
posite Beaueourt, cutting off the re.
maiuing fragment of the German posi
tion around St. Pierre division, while
simultaneously Beaumont Tllamel was
attacked from the opposite bank.
AH positions of the Germans north
of the Ancre were of exceptional
strength, Beaumont-Hamel equalling
Thiepval in the extent and security of
its labyrinth of dugouts. The German
engineers have been laboring constantly
for more than two years to make the
defenses of this important part impreg
nable. There was a profusion of con
nected machine gun redoubts, elaborate
telephone and electric light system and
a great cavern capable of sheltering
companies of Infantry
The barrage fire accompanying the at
tack and the subsequent bombardment
PLAN FEDERAL
INQUIRY
Into the Alleged Misuse of
Money in the Presiden
, tial Campaign
OFFICIALS ADMIT
PLANS UNDER WAY
Resolution, Authorizing an
Investigation, to Be Sub
mitted to Congress
Washington, D. C, Nov. 14. Senato
rial investigation of alleged misuse of
money in the presidential campaign was
announced definitely to-day by adminis
tration officials. Preliminary plans have
been made to prepare a resolution, pro
viding the machinery for Rn inquiry,
ready to be introduced soon after Con
gress convene next month. This plan is
of the next line of works were described , 10 .cnl1 0e actually m charge of cam
as the most terrific experienced by them
on any front.
GERMANS TRY DRIVE
IN CHAMPAGNE
BUT ARE HALTED
London, Nov. 14. The -.lumber of pris
oners taken by the British in the fighting
on the Ancre sector of the Somme front
Is now over 4,000, according to the offi
cial statement to-day.' The capture of
Beaumont-Hamel, reported unofficial,
was announced in to-day s statement.
There had been no serious fighting in
the Ancre sector since the opening of
the British push on the first of July
when the British line of attack extended
five miles north of the Ancre to Go mine
court. But after a few days, no prog
rcss being made in this region, efforts
were henceforth concentrated farther to
the south. Apparently the Germans were
taKen by surprise and they offered no
serious resistance except before Serre.
The attack was carried out dver a front
extending five miles on both sides of the
Ancre against positions which the Ger
mans had held for two years and which
they regarded as impregnable. The posi
tions north .of the river are described as
of extraordinary strength. Beaumotit
flamel equalling ThiepvaL in the extent
and security of its dug-outs.
This latest British advance in conjunc
rtion with that on the Schwaben-LeSars
(in has threatened the envelopment of
Miraumont on the Albert-Arres railroad.
' From unofficial reports yesterday's at
tack appears to extend along a front of
nearly 8,000 yards from the Grandecourt
Pozieres road to a point considerably
north of Beaumont-Hamel. In Uiis area
the British line has been advanced at
lome points 2,000 yards and most of the
British objectives have been gained.
A bulletin issued last night by the
British headquarters in France reads:
"We attacked this morning astride the
Ancre and have succeeded in penetrat
ing the German defenses on a front of
nearly five miles. The strongly forti
fied village of St. Pierre division has
fallen into our hands.
The attack was delivered before day
break in a thick mist. Severe losses hare
been inflicted on the enemy; over 3300
prisoners have passed through our col
lecting stations already and more are
roming in. The fighting continues.
"The front which has been captured
north of the Ancre consists of the Ger
man original front-line defenses of an
exceptionally strong nature."
French War Office Reports That the At
tack West of Auberive Last Night
Was Put Down South of
the Somme Artillery
is Active.
Paris, Nov. 14. A strong detachment
made an attack last night west of Au
berive in Champagne. The war office an
nounces the assault was checked by the
French. South of the Sommei in the vi
cinity of Presaoire there was active ar
tillery fighting.
TO ASK GERMANY
TO END DEPORTATION
SHOOTS TWO, THEN
KILLS HIMSELF
Some Dispatches Say That Spain, the
United States and the Vatican Will
Approach the Government.
Paris, Nov. 14. News dispatches from
Rome say the Vatican and the govern
ments of Spain and the United States
have decided to approach jointly the Ger
man government with a view to putting
a stop to the deportation of Belgians.
ALL OF CREW SAVED.
And Captain of Steamer Columbian is a
German Prisoner.
Corunna, Spain, via Paris, Nov. 14.
Capt. Frederick Curtis of the American
steamer Columbian, who arrived here his son, Robert, so seriously that he will
with the rescued crew of this steamship die, and rushing from the shed sent a
declared to a representative of the As- j bullet into his own breast just below the
sociated Press yesterday he was a pris- heart. Ho will die.
oner on board the German submarine I The son said just before he was taken,
U-49 for six days after the destruction with his father, to the Memorial hospi-
of his vessel. ital in Worcester:
"Father was crary drunk.
Robert, who is 22 years old, and his
wife, 21, had just returned from covering
a milk route in Worcester. The father
met them at the farm door and immedi-
paign finances before the Senate com
mittee and investigate the details of
their transactions.
Various reports concerning the use ot
money in certain states have come to
Democratic as well as to Republican
headquarters. Investigation into al
leged attempts to colonize voters in In
diana and West Virginia particularly
was begun several weeks before the
election. Before the polls closed on Tues
day charges of corruption were being
openly made by the Democratic chief
tains and predictions were freely Circu
lated that exposures would follow the
election.
Evidence is being gathered upon which
to base contests in the election of Harry
S. New and James E. Watson as sen
ators from Indiana and Representative
Howard Sutherland as senator in West
Virginia. New on the face of the re
turns defeated majority leader Kern,
and Watson won from Senator Taggart.
Sutherland in West Virginia defeated
Senator Chilton. It has been charged by
the Democrats that negroes were colo
nized from the south in the states where
the Republicans triumphed by small majorities.
Dudley, Mass., Town Counsel, Suddenly
Insane, Shoots Daiighter-
in-Law and Son.
Dudley, Mass., ' Nov. 14. Frank E.
Deon, town counsel, tax collector and
prominent citizen of this village for
many years, went insane suddenly yes
terday noon while in a cow-barn 40 feet
from his house, ila seized an old army
rifle, shot his daughter-in-law, Mrs. Rob
ert Deon, through the heart, wounded
CANADIAN MUNITIONS
MINISTER STEPS
OUT ON REQUESJ
Things Have Not Been Going Well Be
tween Sir Sam Hughes and the
Home Government for a
Long Time.
Ottawa, Out., Nov. 14. General Sir
Sam Hughes has resigned as Canadian
minister of militia and defense. His
resignation was requested. He had held
office since 1011.
The break between General Hughe
and Premier Borden and other members
of the Canadian government resulted
from differences over questions of policy
and details of administration.
Since the beginning of the war there
have been many such differences on ques
tions of military management, but until
recently, it is said, they have been ad
justed generally by allowing Gen. Hughes
to carry out his plans. Later the fric
tion has increased and adjustments have
grown more futticult. It is understood
the premier and the cabinet have been
growing more disposed to insist upon
their own plans as against those of Gen.
Ilugnes.
One of the points ever which a differ
ence arose was the supplying of the ten
adian forces with th British army rifle.
Gen. Hughes, it is reported advocated in
stead the use of a Canadian weapon.
Some time ago Geto. Hughes returned
from a three months' visit to England
with a plan to have a Candian war conn
cil organized in England with a deputy
minister of militia at his head. The l-an
adian government, however, held that
with more than 2O0,0uO Candian troops in
the trenches in France or in training in
England there should be an overseas
minister of militia. ." Gen. Hughes op
posed this, as it would greatly deprive
him of authority. I
When the government insisted up its
lan, it is reported! Cen. Hughes sug
gested that Sir Mat Aitken should be
appointed to the new post. Premier Bor
den, however, appointed Sir George Per
ley, although there it said to have been
lack of harmony between him and Gen.
Hughes.. This took from Gen. Hughes
control of a large part of the Candian
forces.
While ho was in England Gen.
Hughes, after investigating the Can
adian army medical force, relieved Gen.
Guy Carleton Jones of the command. The
government replaced Gen "Jones.
Criticism by Gen. Hughes of action
taken bv British authorities both in re
gard to the handling of Canadian army
supplies and of the Candian forces, it is
said, has been resented.
It has been stated that there was a
lack of cordiality between (Jen. Hughes
and the Duke of Connaught, who has
just left Canada, after a year's service
as governor-general.
PREPARES '
FOR BIG CROWD
Montpelier Is in Gala Attire
in Honor of New Eng
land Fruit Show
HAS MORE ENTRIES
THAN BOSTON SHOW
Every State in New Eng
land Expected to. Be
Represented
WANT LAW CHANGED.
So Vermont Will Not Be Gretna Green
Any Longer.
Brattlehoro, Nov. H rThe Brattleboro
Ministerial union in annual meeting yes
terday voted to petition the representa
tive from Brattleboro to use his influence
to secure the passage of a law regulat
ing marriage conformable to the laws
of the neighboring states. Brattleboro
has developed into a Gretna Green for
hurried marriages by parties living in
other states where five days' notice is
required before the issuance of marriage
licenses.
All of the 109 members of the Colum
bian's crew were saved, Captain Curtis
stated. Captain Curtis said the Colum
bian w-as warned before she was torpe
doed and sunk by the crew of the U-49.
The Columbian's crew was left in lifeiately began to scold about something
boats, as the captain was taken on board i connected with the business. Both the
the submarine.
Captains Curtis and Patterson, relat
ing their experiences, said they were al
lowed at intervals, between the opera
tions of the submarine, to go on deck to
son and wife replied,
"Don't talk to me, don't answer me
back!" the father suddenly screamed,
and running to the wall took down the
rusty old rifle. His children made no
smoke. They were watched on deck by attempt to get away, evidently not be-
members of the crew armed with re-ilieving he would shoot.
volvers, but when they wehit below the i The old man took deliberate aim and
crew put aside their weapons. There sent the first bullet squarely through
was only one chair in the cabin, which: his daughter-in-law's heart.
the captains used in turn, otherwise they She dropped dead where she stood,
had to lie on the bunks. Robert stood watching, horrified, too
MONTPELIER
Stacy Clark, High School Football Play
er, Seriously 111.
Stacy Clark, son of Mr. and Mrs. El
mer Clark, and prominent high school
athlete, is seriously ill at his home as the
result of an injury suffered in the Little
ton, N. If., football game Saturday. He
was kicked in the back during the game
and congestion of the kidney lias devel
oped. He has a high temperature.
Hunters welcomed the snowfall of yes
terday and last night with much joy
and over a score of men left this morn
ing by train and automobile for small
towns Bnd camps in the county to be in
readiness for an early start to-morrow
morning in search of deer.
Charles H. Thompson went this morn
ing to Richford, where he will spend a
few davs in connection with the con-
steamer Varing 13 miles off the Spanish sighted along the. barrel and put a bul- """ wo w'n ,n VRt
n r,,;. a '.f x-.. . .1..? k v ,ih iviv'n !,, Mrs. Angehne Gonyeo, an inmate of
vember 9. The steamer stopped and was Mrs. Deon, the man's wife, had looked ' c,t? rm is celebrating to-day what
1 1 . - . .. 1. . 1 i . i. i r iL . : .1 . 1, . t. . i 1
uruweu vu luilc auutiru me captains unii , ircra me w muuw hi. mr mnt, buui uu
land them. She was also ordered to take saw the woman fall. She ran as the
aboard the crews of the Columbian and second shot rang out. The father prob-
Norwegian steamers. All were welcomed ably intended to shoot her also, for he
aboard the Varing. The submarine rushed from the shed toward the house,
watched the operation, and then ordered) As he did so, however, he caught a
the Varin to make for the coast six miles glimpse of her figure flying down the
from Camarines. The Varing directed to road, ne stopped and ackwardly point-
set out life boats and embark the ship- 'ed the rifle at his own heart and fired.
generally believed to le her 100th
birthday anniversnry. She was born in
Canada, but with her husband resided in
Montpelier on upper Main street for
many years. When Mr. Gonyeo died
about 20 years ago she removed to the
city farm. The caretaker's family gave
a little party in her honor to-day. She
is extremely active for a person" of such
advanced age and is able to go about the
Despite the heavy fall of snov which
may discourage motorists who had
planned to make the trip to Montpelier
by machine that city is preparing for a
large number of visitors from through
out the New England states during the
week, the New England fruit show and
20th annual gathering of the Vermont
State Horticultural society, which opens
this evening in the city hall, being the
attraction.
Decorators were busy yesterday and
to-day and the exterior of the municipal
building presented an attractive and un
usual appearance with vari-eolored bunt
ing hung from the tower and windows.
Every New England state will be rep
resented with exhibits and every bit of
available space has been taken, there be.
ing more entries made than a year ago
when the show was held in the Mechanics
building, Boston.
The holding of the New England Fruit
show in Montpelier was made possible
by the efforts of the Montpelier board of
trade, an active organization, together
with the liberality of the citizens of the
citv.
With many fruit-growing localities in
every state of New England represented
t is anticipated that a large number of
out-of-the-state visitors will be present
during the week. I he railroads of Ver
mont have made reduced rates for the
eek and Btate visitor to the show are
anticipated by the thousands. The men
in charge of the exhibits report that ev
ery available foot of space in the large
auditorium will be occupied.
A program of addresses on important
subjects relating to fruit growing has
been arranged by the Vermont Histori
cal society. Men familiar with the
themes on which they have been invited
to speak are on the program, several of
whom fill important official positions
outside of Vermont. Hon. Wilfred Wheel
er, secretary of the Massachusetts state
board or agriculture, will speak this
evening on the subject, "Marketing Hor
ticultural Products." , Wednesday morn
ing Dr. J. K. Shaw of the Massachusetts
Agricultural college at Amherst, will
Bpeak on the subject, "Varieties of Ap
ples." In the afternoon of Wednesday
Prof. W. T. Macoun, dominion horticul
turist, Ottawa, Canada, will speak on
"Some Aspects of Fruit Growing in
Canada," and Prof. U. P. Hedrick of the
New York experiment station at Gene
va ha.s for his subject, "Prolits in Apple
Growing." In the evening Prof., J. E.
trourley of the New Hampshire Experi
ment station at Durham will talk on
"Grass Mulch."
Thursday afternoon Dr. J. K. Shaw
will deliver a second address, the theme
being, "The Future of the New Eng
land Apple Growers." He will be
followed by C. J. Brand, chief of the
bureau of markets and rural organiza
tions, United States department of ag
riculture, Washington, D. C, who will
speak on "What the Government is do
ing to Promote Market Conditions."
The remainder of the program for the
four days of the event includes several
men and women of prominence in their
chosen lines in Vermont.
When the show opens this evening
the city will have been given gala at
tire and with the music to be provided
during the week the occasion is sure
to prove one of festivity as well as of
instructive.
LOCOMOTIVES SIDESWIPED.
One Quite Badly Damaged But No One
Was Injured.
Two Barre & Chelsea locomotives, th
Granite City ami the Monarch, sideswipe
each other in the M. 4. W. K. freigh
yard just north of the Prospect street
crossing early this afternoon and in con
sequence of the accident the Monarch
with a partially demolished cab, wi
probably be shelved for a time while re
pairs are being made. The Granite City
was running light out of Burnham i
meadow at 12:30 o'clock and the Mon
ureh, recently returned from Millstone
hill with two cars in its wake, had just
crossed Prospect street and was swinging
onto the main track when the crash
came. It occurred near a switch and the
rear end of the Granite City, which was
bourn! south, came against the underpin
ning of the Monarch cab with consider
able force.
Crews aboard each locomotive stuck to
their posts and no one was injured. The
Granite City escaped with a broken grab
iron ana a badly bent grab rail on the
side of the cab which came in contact
with the other locomotive. Both en
gineers reversed the emergency brakes
and the locomotives were stopped al
most instantly. The, Monarch, with the
Ice side of its cab stove in, began to leak
steam. The Granite City remained near
the jreight station.
Just how the sideswiping happened to
occur could .not be explained readily
Each crew understood the other's signals
and the crash came almost without
warning. Local officials of the Barre t
Chelsea road stated that Supt. A. A,
Stebbins had been notified of the acci
dent and that he would probably conduct
a careful investigation upon his arrival
in the city soon after 2 oclock. En
gineer William Rivait was in charge of
he Monarch and Conductor James .
Kelly and Fireman Michael H. O'Xeil
completed his train crew. The Granite
City was operated by Engineer A. P.
Burnham with R. H. Brown, as the eon
ductor and L. F. Wliittemore as the fire
man.
MRS. ANNIE WILF0RE.
Barre Woman Passed Away To-day Aft
er Three Weeks' Illness.
Mrs. Annie (Gordon) Wilfore, wife of
aul Wilfore, died at her home, 215
South Main street, this forenoon at 11
clock, the end following an illness of
three weeks. Death was due to a general
breakdown. The deceased is survived by
er husband, her mother, Mrs. George
More of Worcester, and by eight chil-
ren, as follows: John Wilfore of Plain-
eld, la., George Wilfore of Barre, Mrs.
tta Van Rondo of Saranac Lake, N. Y.,
Mrs. Frank St. John of Williamstown,
Mrs. Orville Bushey of South Barre. Mrs.
thel St. John of Barre, Mrs. Jennie
Keith of Barre and Mrs. Edwand Venner,
so of this city. Three children are de
ceased.
Mrs. Wilfore was born Annie Gordon
in Champlain, N. Y., in January, 1802,
and was nearing her Mth birthday. Her
marriage to Mr. Wilfore was celebrated
northern New York June 24, 1879.
She had been a resident of Barre for the
past nine years. " - .
Arrangements for the funeral are held
abeyance pending the reeeipt of nd-
ices from her son, John, in Iowa. It is
expected that the service will be held
Saturday.
WINTER TAKES
US UNAWARES
Jack Frost Brings a Foot of
Real Snow Over
Night
COLDER WEATHER
IS TO FOLLOW
The Very Old-Timer?
Back to Octobe e
Year 184',
FUNERAL OF L. W. KEITH.
Was Held at His Home on Eastern Ave
nue Monday Morning.
The funeral of Levi W. Keith, for
many years a resident of Barre. whose
death occurred at his home on Eastern
avenue Saturday morning, was held at
the house Monday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. J. B. Resrdon, pastor of the Uni
versalist church, was the officiating cler
gyman and the bearers were: Clyde
Perry, Arthur Batchelder, Nat Keith and
Bert Stewart of Montpelier. Interment
was made in the Keith family lot in
Elmwood cemetery.
A November day of wallowinc in snow
that measured ten inches in protected
spots and an even foot in the open re
minded old timers of the winter which
began in the fall of October, 1848. Then,
in the late days of the harvest moon.
snow piled high over the fence tops and
remained much in evidence until spring.
Apples were left under trees and pota
toes that made the home in mother earth
through the winter retained much of
heir flavor in the snrinar. At dawn to
day it looked a goooT deal like '48 to the
Old Timers' club and there were those
of other generations who could not re
call a time when snow was so deen in
mid-November. Children hail it as a
dispensation for their own particular
benefit, but the farmer who has vet to
finish his fall ploughing sees only a
dreary waste of white on his fields.
Although the snow began to fall in
earnest Monday afternoon, its presence
on the well known earth caught most
folks unawares at dawn to-day. There
were hasty shifts from wagons to run
ners among people who have to be about
each day with horses. Autos took to cov
er and very few travelers were abroad
on pneumatic tires. The street depart
ment was not to be caught napping and
what with 10 and 11 inches of snow on
the walks, the paths were pretty well
ploughed out soon after daybreak.
Those who are prone to lay their lesser
nevances at the door of the street de-
artment must admit that the work was
ery commendably done.
Trainmen anticipated a minimum of
delay in train service for the reason that
the first snowfall seldom discommodes
traffic on the steel rails. Neverther
ess, the Green Mountain express, plough-
ng its way through a blizzardette from
Woodsville, N. H., this morning, was a
half-hour overdue and passengers aboard
who surveyed the heavy fall along the
ells River division thanked their
lucky stars that they were able to reach
Barre at all. Jack Frost commanded
the land forces to-day but promises to
abide' by ' the weather clerk's decision
that cold weather will follow. So for
the present, at least, the air lanes will
be opened to sunshine.
TALK OF THE TOWN
s.
TALK OF THE TOWN
wrecked men in them. This was a long iThe bullet missed that organ by inches. .1, i . i
j J:-..it ..j . . r tv. : :r uJ k... .. house without assistance. She has three
MADE STUBBORN DEFENSE.
But Germans Admit They Lost Positions
on the Ancre.
Berlin, via London, Nov. 14. The stub
born defense made by the Germans of the
positions near the river Ancre which
were attacked yesterday by the. British
caused the attackers to suffer important
losses, thg war office announced to-day.
The capture by the British of Beanmon't-
Hamel and St. Pierre Divion, with the
lateral connecting lines, is reported.
and difficult operation, and an Ameri- The fleeing wife reached the house of
can from the Columbian fell into the sea 'Edgar F. Hill, where she telephoned to
and narrowly escaped drowning. He was
sligntly injured during his rescue,
NO WARNING GIVEN.
the police. Constables arriving a few
minutes later found father and son dying
on the ground within 20 yards of each
other. They were hurried to the Me
morial hospital in Worcester, but there
is no hope for either of them.
The father is a graduate of Boston
university. He has had the reputation
of being erratic occasionally for some
time. He was 50 years old.
THAWS KEEPER DREW
DIED IN BERLIN, N. H.
Holman A. Drew, for Many Years Sheriff
of Coos County, Had a Shock Last
Friday Morning.
BREACHED FRONT LINE.
on Five-
British Attack Carried Out
Mile Front
With the British armies in France,
Nov. 14. Attacking on a front of near
ly five miles on both sides of the Ancre
lhcr in mist and darkness early yester
day mrniinr, the British made a further
Before Steamship Arabia Was Fired on
By Submarine.
London, Nov. 14. Paul R. Danner, the
American on board the British steam
ship Arabia, which was sunk by a sub
marine November 6 in the Mediterranean,
sent the Associated Press the following
signed statement from Malta:
"I am an American citizen and was a
second class passenger ort the Arabia,
bound for Marseilles. At 11:20 on the
morning of the sixth of November I wa
sitting on the port side of the after deck
when a tremendous shock to the ship oc
curred, immediately followed by an ex
plosion. I Berlin, N. II., Nov. 14. Holman A
"There wa absolutely no warning Drew, for several terms sheriff of Coos
whatever, not even one second, it up- county and for nearly a year one of the
pears from the statements of certain custodians of Harry K. Thaw while the
passengers who were on the starboard latter was in New Hampshire follow
side that immediately they saw the peri- ing his escape from Matteawan, died to-
scope of a submarine appear out of the day at the age of 59. He had a shock
water about 30tl yards distant on the I last hriday morning.
starboard side the torpedo was fired.
"It was only thanks to the good for
tune of a calm sea and that the boat
floaed evenly for a considerable time; land which is to be given in Worthen
hall .Saturday evening. Kev. A. t:. t.d
wall, pastor of the Swedish Baptist mis
sion, will be the lecturer and a series of
Swedish folk in Barre are interested
in an illustrated lecture on their native
that we were all saved. There was cer
tainly no warning of any character."
Paiil R. Danner is a Harvard graduate.
who has been eneaeed in Y'oung Men's i stereopt icon view s of "the land of the
Christian association work in India. He midnight sun will accompany his re
trench in the original Gvmau front line, was returning to bis home in Ombride. marks.
children living. Mrs. Jane Fisk of Rox
bury, Mrs. Julia Boardman and George
Gonveo of Northfield ami many grand
children and great-grandchildren.
Rev. J. P. Long, rector of St.. Augus
tine's church, has received word of the
arrival of Rev. Thomas McCarthy, as
sistant rector, at Rochester. Minn., but in
such a weak condition that the operation
to he performed at the Mayo Bros.' hos
pital has been postponed for a few days.
Rev. Fr. McCarthy left for the western
city last Saturday evening, accompanied
byl)r. Carey and a nurse. He had been
at Ilea tn hospital for several weeks.
Mrs. Joseph A. DcBer and little
BTandilaughter left this forenoon for Al
bany. N. Y"., where her daughter, Mrs.
Ethel Field, is recovering from an opera
tion performed several weeks ago.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Scott of Libertv
street left this forenoon for WaitsficM.
where they will spend the remainder of
the week deer hunting.
Jesse and Thomas Sibley and Bailey
Sawyer, three Barre young men. were
arrested in that city yesterday bv Chief
of Police Samuel Sinclair on warrant is
sued by Grand Juror A. C. Theriaiilt on
rharge of defacimr the interior walls of
the city hall. Chief Connollv broueht
the three hoys to Momrx-lier yesterlsy
afternoon and all entered plean'nf guilty
when arraigned before -ludce F.. M. Har
vey. In each re a fine of and oote
of $7-25 was inflicted.
Mrs. Harold Tieraey Wt yesterday for
Hartford. Oonn to join her hubsnd." w1m
is employed on the New Harr-n mud m j
hralOman. Ho was formerly employed j
on the Central Vermont.
WAITED NOT. FOR PARENTS.
St. Johnsbury Couple Got Married and
Then Sought Parental Blessing.
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 14. Miss Kath
leen Cox, a senior in the commercial de
partment at St. Johnsbury academy last
week, is now Mrs. Roy Green. 1 lie mar
riage took place Sunday at St. Aloysius'
church. After the ceremony the couple
went first to the groom's home and then
to the bride's home, where the parents
were acquainted with the facts.
The bride is the daughter of 5Ir. and
Mrs. Jnmes Cox of 107 Eastern avenue
and Mr. Green has been residing at the
home of his parents on Lafayette street.
The young couple have been acquainted
for some time and at last decided to I
Henry P. Forsythe of Underhill ar
rived in the city this morning for a bust
ness visit of several days. Mr. Forsvthe
stales that potato buyers are paying
farmers in his section $1.25 per bushel
for tubers and provide transportation to
the nearest station.
The juveniles of the L. A., A. O. H.,
were pleasantly entertained in K. of C.
hall last evening by the ladies' auxiliary
of the A. 0. H. A lengthy program was
carried out. consisting of both vocal and
instrumental music, after which supper
was served, which was much enjoyed.
The condition of Thomas Brady of
Granitevillo, who suffered severe injuries
in an accident at the Pirie quarry last
week, is reported to remain practically
unchanged. Mr. Brady is a patient at
the City hospital, whither he was re
moved on the day of the accident.
Mario Reffi. who has been making his
home with his son, M. Reffi, jr., for some
time, left last night for New York, where
he is to visit acquaintances for a few
days before sailing for Italy, there to
pass the winter at his tormer home on
the slopes of the northern peninsula.
To-night the board of aldermen will
gather for its first meeting of the month
wina things up smiueniy as me suojeci : , ;n,e u jn bt routine business, as
bad been broached to the parents and,m()gt of the ,vork jn ,he seV(,rsl depart
they did not seem to favor a wedding at iments completed for the vear
the present time. I, jn anotner month the stewards will
The necesssry papers were secure,! a , gt work (m theij. anmm, rep(rts to the
few days before from the town clerk j vojer(1
and the marriage banns were published j Rnd Montppler Knights of Co
at the 8 o clock serv,ce at St. Aloysius wi ,n ( jt this
hurch Sunday morning The we.ld.ng inM).a,, of Wednesday night for
ceremony T"7? l 'the second of their series in cribhage and j travel for the town of Brookfield. the ac
Vr; -M r-en, the Barre knights .recent occurring st the bow of the,, on-
.-.I...... ... . v...... - i -r, " .leading in eriblwige and much interest
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs
Buzr.i of Scampini place yesterday.
Carl Sawyer left for Concord, N. H.,
to-day and will spend several days there
on business.
Byron Manchester of Randolph visited
his daughter, Mrs. D. M. Barclay of
franklin street, to-dav.
James Levie, jr., commenced work as
a bookkeeper in the Granite Savings
Bank 4 Trust Co. this morning.
Albert Freemm. who has been visiting
friends on South Main street during the
past week, left for his home in Rutland
last night.
F. H. Smith, who has been visiting
friends at Goddard seminary during the
past few days, left for Woodsville, N. H.,
this morning, there to stay a few days
with relatives before returning to his
home in Ashland, N. H.
Pedestrians who pass the G. Tomasi
block and have had the misfortune to be
pelted with peas from a bean-shooter by
some occupant of the block are preparing
to raid the premises and give the bellig
erent all that is coming to him.
Will all who have sewing or knitting
from the first Barre sewing club for the
allies please send it to Mrs. J. C. Morri
son, (i Laurel street, on Nov. 18, or as
soon after as possible, as the finished
work is smiost ready to be shipped to
the British war relief in Boston?
Jeff Melanson, the star underhand
pitcher on the Italian A. C. last summer.
gave the Barre friends the first inklins of
his whereabouts a few days back when
he dropped them an epistle from the
Rangeley lake region in the northern
Maine woods. Jeff writes that he is in
a party of six who are laying for the big
game and up to date the members in this
eanSp have been hnving some very good
success. He will remain up in Maine for
about three weeks longer, after which he
will return to his home in Beverly, Mass.,
to stay until the Christmas recess, and
then he will re-enter St. Anselms college
at Nashua, N. H.. to complete his course,
so as to enter Tufts dental college next
fall.
What might be considered as a lucky
i accident occurred yesterday morning
when Elwin L. Scott of this city, who
was operating his Cadillao touring car,
turned out to pass the Vermont Truck
ing Sales Co. truck which is hauling
siinplvinz in the absence of Rev. Fr.
Dwyor.
The groom is employed by the Fair
lmnks company. The couple are making
plan for taking a residence in town.
SAFE IN ENGLAND.
The Arrival Announced of Various Ca
nadian Contingents.
Ottawa, Nov. 14. It was announced
centers around the get-together at Mont
pelier this evening. Next week the
Montpelier council will be entertained in
Barre.
The winter of KM6-1017 promises to
lie a season of unusual activity in local
bowling circles, as several teams are be
ing formed with a fair prospect of organ
ble liend in the highway near the Wheat
ley bridge in Williamstown gulf. As Mr.
Soott steered his machine to pass the
truck, he turned out on the west side of
the road, so as to avoid any chance of
running into the meadow on the other
side of the highway, and the snow on
the road made it slippery enough to
rause the wheels to skid and run the
izing a league with the teams playing on i front of the machine into the bank, tip
ltoth the Pearl street lanes and' Merit) :ping the oar on its side. Mr. Scott 1
Bros.' alleys. Moreover, howling pro- 'alone in the car and he jumped as he saw
moters have entered into active negotia-j the automobile tipping, thus avoiding
officially yesterday that the following ; tions with teams in other cities ami if a 'any injury. Immediately help was sum-
troop have amveil saieiy in i-.ngiana : i league to oe composed of teams repre- moneJ from the jsennett garage and a
The lP'th, 1 1 4th. ,3.1d. 142d. l.Wh, 161st, jsenting the larger centers of population erew went to the gulf and worked for
lfi'2d ami 168th Ontario battalions. lS4th , in the state cannot be formed, at least ) three hours before the machine could he
Manitolui battalion, 19Mh and 2!Uh Sas- (an effort will he made to stage some in-1 hoisted to its wheels. The only damage
katrhewan battalions, 131st British Co- teresting indciemlf nt contets on the! that could 1 found on the car was the
lumbia battalion and llHHh western uni- Barre lanes. Several practice matches ' loss of one holt which holds the top up.
versities battalion, together with drafts !have been arrange., as a preliminary for ! Tbe car ns not scratched badly and as
of the I.Jd Alberta battalion, army mcd- 'tournament that are to be started early soon as it was turned from its side, it
ital corps, engineers and naval ratings. ia Deo-mber. was in condition to run on its own power.
