A
n m : m
j i
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
; .
; . M
CIRCULATION IS .
OVER 4000 DAILY
-
(THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 244
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS gSSE
0 lw s
ft
i
FIERCE BRITISH DRIVE
FORCES GERWIiNS BACK
Evacuation of Two Important Stro sfiolds Admitted by
Berlin War Office-Three Tfousa Prisoners and Much
i Booty Taken Russians Throw 7 ops Across Danube
and Increase Pressure on Mack jn's Flank Which Is
Said To Be Retreating v
London, Nov. 14.--The British on the Ancre today
continued their successful smash against the heavily for
tified German lines. The war office, reported new pro
gress at Beaucourt-Sur-Ancre, where four thousand Ger
mans were taken prisoner.
Bitter fighting was going on in the outskirts of the
town at noon.
The anonuncement which told of the advance at Beaucourt-Sur-Ancre,
said the storming of Beaumont-Hamel
village had been completely successful.
The battle of Ancre Brook continued today. Fighting
at the northern" edges of Beaumont and Hamel on the
north bank where the Germans are attempting to rally
.their forces is proceeding . with an intensity that in
creases hourly, according to unofficial reports reaching
here from the front.
Yesterday's advance, including today's consolidations,
was on a front of more than' five miles and to a depth at
some points of more than two thousand yards. Each at
tack was preceded by a curtain fire, which German
prisoners say is the most terrible of any barrage hail of
metal that has been faced on any front.
On the south bank, about
north of Tmepval, the Germans already have started
counter attacking and the fighting there is bitter.
The British have rushed up reserves. at all three points
tken in the lightning stroke that began under cover of
e low. hanging mists early yesterday and continued in
this sector with a surprisingly small show of resistence
s by the, Germans. The reserves are now at work consoli
dating the gains that were made where the Germans dug
and cemented themselves into what heretofore had been
regarded as one of ; the most impregnable, positions of
their western lines.
Military experts here expected th
greatest show of resistance about Beau-1
mont-Hnmel, since any further advance
liy British forces there will seriously
threaten Mirnmont, Toss than one mile.
directly on the road to coveted n
jmunie. By today the nttmbct of prisoners
tuken had incij'ased well above 3,000.
More nre continually being hurried back
il' the British lines. Much booty also
ms found in the amazingly iutiicnTfc
dug-out defenses.
t'ritgmoiitarv press reports reaching
hero today told of a spread of tho
fighting several miles northward, which ,
led to belief that General Haig's forces;
have started a drive on Serro bout one;
mile north of Beaumont and n scant mile
pad n half northwest of Miramout.
While interest centered on this latest
Puis; smash, great importance is attach-.
ed to reports from the eastern front'
that Russians in force have cpossed tho
Danube from a point west below Cerna
voda. This (jives the Rirsso-Ruinanians
reinforcements at a point where they al-
ready have shown an advantage ever1
M .ickensen 's ieft wing, which Tetrogrnd
.mid Bucharest report is retreating, de
spite Be'iin war office statements that
I1'" field marshal is niaintaintnp his do-:
feitious there. ,
Strong Points Abandoned.
Berlin, via ,Sayvilk, L. I.. Nov. 14.
3'lvacuation of Beanmont llamel and .St.
Pierro Divion was announced by the
Mrs.-1'ipton Bud Trent t' market this
iniTiiin', but she didn' say beans. Some
.folks never borrow trouble they jest
borrow $2 and fcrgit it.
ttr'
St. Pierre Divion, half a mile
war office today. '
The official statement also said, "our
tenacious defense caused us consider
able losses," but declared the British
also suffered considerable sacrifices."
"In the western war theatre, army
group of Prince Ruppercht there was
violent fighting on both sides of the
Ancre yesterday,:' said the ofheial an.
nnunneinent. Strong Kuglish attack's.
prepared for by concentrated fire of
their heaviest calibre guns, were launch
ed against our positions, the advance be
ing nt an angle toward the southwest-
ward.
"The enemy under considerable sac
rifices succeeded in pushing us back
from Beaumout, Hamel and M. Pierre
Divion and from adjoining lines to oth
er oiepnred positions.
''At-other places from cast of Hebu-
terre south to Grandcourt, wherever the
English had entered our positions, they
wero ejected by brisk counter-attacks
of our infanttry.
"French attackB in the Pnilly-Snillisel
sector failed.
"On the eastern bank of the Mouse
artillerying in the early evening was ac
tive. French reconnoitering advances
4'gnijist our lines about Hnrdumont were
repulsed."
Situation is Unchanged,
retrograd, Nov. 14. For the first
time since General Sakhnroff's Rubso
Rumanians began their smashing blows
against ilackensen extreme left wing,
which rested at Cernnvoda on the Dan
i be in the Dobrud.ia region, the war
effico today reported the situation "un
changed." "In the Tnrnsylvanian reaion," said
the statement, "enemy attacks were ro
pelted. ''The Dobrudja situatiou remains
changed."
Runmninn forces defendintr Hie dis
trict about Rotenturn Pass have been
forced back under-persistent enemy at
tacks in the Alt river region, the war
office announced today.
Teutou attacks in the .Tiul valley re
salted in the capture of the village of
Bumbeshtie, the statement said.
Rumanians Claim Victory. .
Bucharest, Nov; 14. Attacks which
f'l.d been mnde without interruption In
the t'r.ul valley on the river Cnsin since
October 9 were finally repulsed with
sr.njruinnry losses to the enemy, the Ru
manian war office reported todav.
In the cnutttcr-atUick that followed
only 83. prisoners were taken alive.
Three machine guns nod other booty
were taken- - -
"On The Moldavia front in the I'zul
and Trotus valleys onr artillery silenced
enemv guns." the announcement read.
"From Ihe Butna valler to Prevelus
there have been atrilleryintr end some
minor engagements. In the Priiehova
valley there has been iutense artillerying.
:$
HIGH COST OF DINNER
Portland, Ore., Nov,. 14 With
turkeys, cranberries, chestnuts,
sweet potatoes and saner kraut
aeroplaning, dealers today pre
dicted a Thanksgiving dinner of
unusually high cost. The pro-
hibitive price of grain for feed
ing caused a decrease in num
ber of turkeys raised. The cran-,
berry crop is short, cabbage is
lacking for kraut and the Italian
government has embargoed all
chestnut shipments.
L
United States Senate Will
Look Into Charges Made
by Both Sides
Washington, Nov. 14. A thorough
investigation of campaign expenditures
will be made by the United States sen
ate nt its coming session, it was an
nounced today by administration lead
ers. This would be the answer to the re
luctance of the republican national
eouYmittee to accept the re-election of
President Wilson, though administra
tion declared charges by both repub
licans and democrats of the improper
use of .money already had made it nec
essary that the whole matter be sifted.
Administration men said they are re
ceiving reports from all parts of the
country indicating unprecedented sums
were thrown into doubtful states by
the republican national committee. One
report received is that $l!),0l)O was sent
to Long Branch, X. J.,' a town of six
thousand people, near which the pres
ident had his summer home.
The campaign books of both parties
will be laid beforo the senate, it was
declared and a clear understanding ob
tained of just what was spent, and
how.
Representative Frank Doremus . of
Michigan, chairman of tlie democratic
congressional committee who. coiled at
the white house today admitted that
plans are under way for carry out the
''slush fund" investigation.
Doremus said that according to his
tigurcs on the election there are iii
democrats assured of their seats in the
house and 211 republicans.
"There are at least niuo doubtful
districts," he said.
CONTENDS MANN ACT
DOES N0JAPPLY-TO IT
Takes Position That It Has
No Bearing In Cases of
Moral Lapse .
Washington, Nov. 14. Contending
that the Mann white slave act does not
apply to cases of "mere immorality"
former Senator Jospeh W. Bailey of
Texas todav summed up for the de
fense iirthe appeal of Maury 1. rigg
ond P. Drew l.aminetti or nan j-tmi
Cisco and L. T. liayes of Alva. Okla.,
in tlje supreme court.
Arguments in tho cases were expect
ed to be concluded late today. Assist
aut Attorney General Wallace for the
government, argued tne Aiann act ap
plies to ony interstate immorality. Itai-
lev differed sharply on the question ot
"immorality."
Commercial immorality, or perversion
only, are covered in the Maun act, Bai
ley argued. Bailev argued the law nev
er intended to make it possible to send
to nrison for five years ami to nne
$."000 "a young man who has merely
made a mistake, to paint his name for
ever and to outlaw him, all because he
crossed a state line with a willing wo
man."
There is a tendency, Bailey argued,
in modern criminal law toward harsh
ness. .
'I reject the doctrine that I must
keep my brother from doing whatever
he wants to do," he said. "A man may
lapse and still be honorable. If this
were not true, we should have to blot
some of the brightest names in our
hint or v from its naizef. "
To enforce the law too hsrshlyTUal
ley said, would brinr it into disrepute.
He declared a harsh interpretation of
tho law would permit the prosecution
of a young man "because he enter
tained" a young woman whose morals
were gone long before he met her." it
would put, in the same class, he said,
'the miserable wretch who profits by
the oodies of women and the young
man who merely makes a mistake."
Bailey insisted 'the Mann law was
intended merely to regulate the white
slave traffic.
- German Attacks Repulsed.
Tnris,- Nov. 14. Htrong (lennan at
tacks est of Auberive in the Cham
pagne region were repelled, the war of
fice announced todav.
In the fcfomnie region artillerying is
proceeding about Prcsnoir, which
about one mile and a half northeast of
Cbauliies on the road to Peronne.
TRIFLING CHANGES
IN CALIF
I
In 28 of 58 Counties Official
Returns Show Net Gain
of 113 for Wilson
IN MINNESOTA HUGHES
'LEADS WILSON BUT 123
Ten Precincts Not Heard
From and 301 Soldier
Votes to Count
Sau Francisco, Nov. 14. President
Wilson has shown a net gain of 11. 'I
voted over bi-a unofficial plurality in
complete official returns from 28 of the
58 counties in California recoived by
the t inted Press up to 1 o clock this
af teruoou. '
Of the 58 counties Amador reported
no change from the .unofficial totals,
while Imperial reported a loss to each
candidate, of three votes making no
difference in the plurality.
The . following counties showed
Hughes net gains: Calaveras, 12 votes;
Colusa, 14; Martin, 75; Mariposa, I;
Mendocino, 8; Nevada, 25; San Benito,
11; Han Joaquin, 20; Han Luis Obispo,
44; Sierra, 11; Trinity, 7; Tuolumne, 1;
Yolo, 88. Total, 317.
The following counties showed net
gains for Wilson:
Alpine,' 1; Del Norte, 52; Glenn, 2;
Modoc, 55; Monterey, 0; Orange, 75;
Placer, 8; Plumas, 114; Riverside, 10;
.Santa Barbara, 9; Siskiyou, 48; Holauo,
45; Tehama, 5. Total, 1.10. Wilson's
net gain, 113.
The count proceedod rapidly in tho
smaller counties of the state today awl
slowly in the larger one. While it was
in jrogrcss, a rumor gained currency, In
the east that TOO Wilson votes in- somo
districts in California had been mistak
en for 7,000. The republican state com
mittee reported that it had heard no
such report and an investigation by tho
United Press in all of the larger .coun
ties of the state failed to reveal any
such error so far discovered. . . '
In tabulating the official count, the
United Press in every case -is using the
rote of the high republican elector and
the low democratic elector in each coun
ty. The difference between the high
and low electors on each ticket is very
marked in some counties. . In Marin
county,' for example, tho high demo
cratic elector, Heney, received 3,791
votes, while the low elector, Tylar, re
ceived ouly 3,700.
Secretary of Ntate Jordan at Sacra
mento, believes that most of tho small
er counties of the state will complete
their official count by tomorrow night,
but that it will require a week or 10
(Continued on page three.)
ORNIA
FFICIA
German Leaders Believe
Somme Crisis Has Passed
Whole Section a Shambles
By Carl W. Ackerman
(United Presa staff correspondent)
Prince Ruprecht ' Headquarters on
the Western Front, via Berlin and Say
ville, Nov. 11 Germany believes the
Homme crisis has passed. The belief Is
based on the unshakable and unani
mous opinion of the men who have
home the hammeiing allied blows that,
the entente allies can never break what military necessity requires. The
through these lines of steel and cement, i English destroy everything with their
above and below ground. i artillery.
"Furthermore it is pointed out thatj "Here on the Somme is France's
success in pushing the German lines greatest tragedy, for if the allies ex
out of France and Belgium would make,pect to redeem the entire occupied ter
the occupied sections of these eonntries j ritory in this fashion they will make
a shambles no man 's land, made such French and Belgium territory a no
by French, British and Belgian guns. : limns land.
This confident belief that the allied, "The immediate objective of the
offensive is wearing ielf out is held ; Franco-British offensive was to reach
in the face of Ulenicnts by British I l!aaume and I'eronnc through a break
prisoners that tne .mouth of November . in our lines. They figured this would
will be one of surprises. Tho result of cuiwe our withdrawal to other positions
the great allied offensive was decided
in Julv, German officers hero declard,
when the combined French and British
artillery and the Knglish tanks failed
lo break the German lines in their dar-l The impression here is that Hindcn
ing, initial dash. iburg will force such a price from the
Here is tne opinion or a captain at i
General Von Gamier 'a headquarters,!
an intelligence officer who interviews !
all prisoners, reads all documents found
on battlefields, whose business also is;
the study of strategy and who spent a
number of vesrs-in F.ntfland ami France
foclded Lait June
"The allied offensive was decided
last -Jnne, despite the fact that it has
been kept up four months longer. They
cannot progress further because battles
today are decided hv artillery, not iu
fan try.'' Massed attacks cannot gain
what they did at the beginning.
"We have almost as much artillery
now as the French aifd when we shortly
shall have as mtih ammunition they
can make no more progress. At some
WAVE GRIPS
AND
T
Montana Reports 40 Below
and Coal Shortage at
Same Time
VEGETABLES KILLED IN
SACRAMENTO VALLEY
At Portland 29, in Valley 24
Hood River Apples in
Danger
Han Francisco, Nov. 14. Tho cold
wave that swept out of tho north and
gripped the mountain and middle west
ern states struck California today. Kill
ing trosts were reported enrly today in
several parts of the rich Han Joaquin
valley fruit section and even as far
south as the citrus districts tho weather
was exceedingly cold. Orange and lem
on growkers were out nearly all night
burning smudges to prevent tho fruit
fom being nipped.
During tho past 24 hours the ther
mometer in Hn'n Francisco registered the
lowest mark in five years. This was 44.
The low record for the city is 38 de
grees. In many sections of the Han Joaquin
valley tho temperatures were icy. Stock
ton had 22 degrees, Fresno 24 and Paso
Robles.18. A high, but warm wind
swept the Hncramento valley and kept
the temperature from getting below 30.
The weather bureau today predicted
that there would be no immediate rise
in temperature and declared that kill
ing frosts would bo general in Califor
nia throughout today.
It's Mid-Winter Weather.
Portland, Ore., Nov. 14. With the
mercury down to -three below zero in
eastern Oregon, relief from the unusual
ly early cold was promised today by
the weather forecaster
In Portland it was 29 degrees above,
but in the Willamette valley it fell to
24. Four hundred thousand boxes of ap
ples stored around Hood River were
threatened. Many towns reported water
pipes frozen, and a fuel famine was
tcarea at several points.
40 Below in Montana.
Missoula, Mont.. Nov. 14. With the
temperature at 40 below zero in some
parts of Montana, a threatening coal
famine was prevented today when the
Great Northern railroad gave coal cars
preference over all its lines in this state.
I Three hundred loaded cars wee center
ed at Billings, where tho cold ranged
from 30 to 40 below.
At Butte it was 20 below, Hie coldest
in Montana's history for this time of
(Continued on page five.)
places the French have fifty guns on a
150 yard line; on an eight mile line
they have one thousand cannon.
"But ono must remember that this
country is worth ten timos more to tho
French or British than to us, for it is
tho Frenchman ' home.
"The French realize this more than
the Knglish. The French destroy only
,N matter how deep their wedge goes
.we will not withdraw aiid we still
ihave llapniime end Peronne."
Cannot Pay the Price
allies mat tney cannot pay a.
The battle of the Hoinme is being
fought by young men. Fully eighty
per cent of the Knglish and French
nrisnners are between 19 and 30. Most
or tno Germans are or the same age.
i Two companies were practicing hand
I grenade throwing for all ihc world like
; so many pitchers warming up.
Another matter of deep interest is
the purt pigeons are playing in this
great series of battles. They have prov
ed liivaluauie, especially wnen ariinery
ilestros telephonic communications
with hidden German guns. .There are
eighty of them in one hayloft on the
Somme. They aro helping out as the
- (Continued on page five.)
COLD
NORTHWEST
CA
Cost of Election
Greatly Reduced
Although twice tho number of votes
were cast this year under equal suf
frage that there wercvin 1912, yet the
total cost of the election is only a
small amount more than in that year.
rnis can De seen ny tno following tunle:
Cost
Votes Total per
Year Cast Cost Vote
1912 7,fi43 $ 8,0.r.H $1.05
1914 14,454 11.085 .81
191 14,649 9,313 .64
This is based on the vote for con
gressman and includes the cost of both
the primary and general elections. In
1912 the judges and clerks received
$3128.50 for counting 7613 votes in 51
precincts and this year 'they received
only $3020.30 for counting 14,649 in
73 prcciuets.
BE
Expected Commission Will
Reach Agreement Before
End of Week
Atlantic City, Nov. 14. Generul Per
shing's column will be out of Mexico
soon, if present plans of the American-
Mexican peace commission materialize.
The commission proposes to reach a
.order agreement, probably before the
week end.
As tentatively framed tho border
agreement will call for iminedinto or
gradual retirement of Pershing's men
from their posts below the boundary.
In the meantime. General Carrnnzs will'
endeavor to show good tuith by . having
General Murguia prosecute more vigor
ously than heretofore tho hunt for .Vil
la and his bandits. Murguia succeeds
Trevino as Chihuahua commander. The
proposed agreement likewise will go to
ward adequate security of the border
with the Mexicans assuming a larger
share of this protection than previous
ly. In planning for Pershing's with
drawal, the Americans will be guided
by American military men's advice that
his stay 'Is strategically useless.
With tho prospects of getting to
gether after eleven, weeks of confer
ences, the Mexicans were especially
overjoyed today nt the outlook.
Various internal reforms have been
pledged by the Mexicans, but it is
doubtful if many of these will be in
corporated jn a formal agreement.
No Word From Parral
Kl Paso, Texas, Nov. 14. In ans
wer to many telegrams from relatives
and friends of the ten Americans
thought to have been at Parral during
the reported attacK on ine town uj
Vtllista bandits, United States authori
ties and minini companies employing
these men today admitted they had no
word from any of the men in nearly
four weeks. Two' weeks have passed
since the reported Villa raid. .
Aror nuesiioninff the Chincso mcr
chant who told the authorities ho had
left l'nrral. a week ago and that the
Amer cans were sate at mat time,
United States government agents and
mining men found that he had left
before the reported bandit attack and
that his replies una oeen hhjiukuhvi-
ed. .
1 Trevino. Cnrranzista coin
mander in northern Chihuahua, wired
n FWto Consul Soriano Brnvo that
Totinrii of the annihilation of a de
tnelintent of Cnrrnnzistss nt Fresno
were untrue, it was announced.
Wheat Declines Due
to Heavy Selling
Chicago, Nov. 14. Wheat had i fall
inir off todav on frco selling. The op-
euing was steady to a shade lower thun
yesterdny's close. December was down
over today's opening 1 1-2 cents nt
1 K8: Muv down 1 3-4 cents at $!.-
92 5-8; July down 3-8 cent at $1.59 7-8.
Corn dropped snnrpiy louny on prom
taking sales. December wbb down 2 1-4
rent nt 911 3-4 and Alav down z at
U7 1.4.
Oats were slightly lower. December
was down 3 4 cent at 57 7-8 and May
down 1 1-8 at 61 3-4.
Provisions wero steady, with a ten
dency upward.
To Prosecute Violators
of the Election Laws
Washington, Nov. 14. In an official
statement this afternoon the depart
ment of justice announced that the fact
that the election has passed will not
in any way lessen the efforts of the de
partment to bring to justice violators of
federal election stntutes.
The department also put tin absolute
clamp on all further details of alleged
violations, announcing that no further
information would be giveu to the pub
lic until prosecution of cases was actual
ly begun. This action, it was explained,
was necessary to facilitate apprehension
of its violators.
STOEM ON THE GULF
New York, Nov 14. A storm warn
ing issued -today by the United States
weather bureau said disturbance now
(centered over tho flulf and southern
i Florida coasts, apparently is moving
toward western Cuba.
MIT
DEPOSED
BOARD OF CONTROL
Accourrr hosing
Governor Makes Statement
Saying Warden Violated
Instructions :
HOZING WAS "CRUEL AND
UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT
Governor Made Personal In
vestigation and So Pro
nounces It
Warden John Minto, who was ap
pointed to succeed Harry Minto, kilted
last year while after escaped eoBvicts,
was relieved of his position at the head
of the Oregon state penitentiary this
morning by a unanimous vote of the
board of control, which met in the stats
house at 0:30 o'clook.
A general - growing dissatisfaction.
with the methods used by Warden Min
to in securing discipline at toe pern-'
tentiary are given us the reason for
his elimination by the board of control.
inis uissnusrnction nas oeen growing
for a period of several mouths.
The "hosnig" given two convict
Sunday, November S, is said to be the
"straw that broke the camel's bach"
and forced the hand of the governor.
No appointment bos as yet bees made.
The matter was not taken up this morn
ing at the session of the board of con
trol and will probably be leu in abey
ance Tor a few days. - lit the Interim,
until a new warden is appointed Deputy
Warden blierwood will be in charge t
the penitentiary,
Tho following is the statement of
Governor Withycombe in the matter: -
Governor's Statement
'."On Sunday, November S, two o
victs were hosed at the penitentiary by
the authorities. When we got wind of
this affair, I, arid the other members of.
the board of control, questioned Mr.
Minto. He made light of the entire mat-'
tcr. He maintained that it was nothing
more than '.a wetting down,' mors than,
descrvod by' the very unruly prisoners
in question.
"Yesterday ,to determine matters to
my own. satisfaction, and to get absov
lutely first-hand information, I went to
the penitentiary and interviewed Dep
uty Warden Sherwood, the four guards
nkn n,.l ininnf aA in ttiA hnuinw fliA tarn
convicts who were hosed, nnd two oth
er convicts who witnessed at least somo
or 1 ae proceedings.
"The sum total result of this invest!-'
gatioiu in n most conservative form, is
us follows: Kach man in turn was hand
cuffed to a sell door, facing it; his
clothing was left on him, the fire hose
with full water pressure was then play
ed on him from a distance of approxi
mately 27 feet, and from a point ap
proximately 10 feet higher than the po
sition in which he stood; the stream
struck him on his left side but he was
fasteucd in such a way that he eonld
receive practically all of it on his back.
One man was thus hosed from probably
one to three minutes. The other matt
wub hosed from five to 12 minutes. The
officers themselves, questioned indi
vidually, give these estimates of time.
Higher estimates were given by the pris
oners. During the hosing Wardon Min
to nnd Deputy Warden Sherwood wero
present.
"Tho force of the water at such a
distance, as admitted by the peniten
tiary engineer (who assisted in holding
the hose) would be sufficient to knock
a strong man down unless ho had gome
thing to back against. He states furth
er that Hie application of such a stream
would be very painful, even through
clothing, and certainly upon the nevlc
nnd head. Kaeh prisoner testified that
his sido and back was made block and
blue by the punishment. One prisoner
exhibited the cuts on his wrists mad
by the handcuffs Then his weight fel
upon them. After the hosing tho to
men were u-it m mm .
the soaking wet clothing on them, for
probably on hour; estimates of th timO
varv from half an hour to two nours.
"Now note the following sentenco
from Section 20, Chapter 78 of tho 191-f
Session Laws (The Board of Control
Oregon:
night and Wed
nesday fair;
slowly rising
temper Ht;
moderate ter
ly winds.
(Continued on rmae fiva
THE WEATHER :
