The Alliance Herald
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
3,000 Copies
16 Pages
Two Sections
iNV MVMDrt) Mf TJT) ACTTA CTnniT ntAWfOQ A C crwT TTiM ATT. TTTP. WF.UQ HP AT.T.TAMPP. AKH W1TRTF.RM MF.nP A QTT A
READ st ffP
xAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S. ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 16,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XX11I
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, N KHKASKA, THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1!M6
NUMBER 31
VARIETY ADDS INTER
EST TO BUSINESS
Interesting features of the Live Stock Trade Pre
sented to Readers of The Alliance Herald
by Means of Cuts and Cartoons
"All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."
As a rule the man, as well as the boy, who devotes
seme of his time to recreation and amusement is bet
ter qualified to do his work well and transact busi
ness successfully than he would be if he kept con
stantly in the grind, with no variety, which is the
spice of life, to relieve the monotony.
A little fun, now and then, is relished by live
stock commission merchants as well as other men.
We are glad to give a glimpse of the comic side as
-we have opportunity, 6ome of which appear in this
iroue.
Chas. F. Cox, manager of the Inter-State Live
Stock Commission Co., at. South Omaha, employed
an artist to draw pictures of the members the
employees of the firm, representing the character
istics of each and the particular part of the bus'ticss
to which he gives attention. These pictures have
been turned over to the Stockman editor with per
mission to publish such information as wo choose to
give regarding each of the ten men. They make
an interesting series of cartoon. Number 1 was pub
lished in The llarald last week, No. 2 appears in this
issue, and one will be in each succeeding paper until
all have bene published.
The Groat Western Commission Co. has furnish
ed The Herald the cut which appears on this page, a
picture which tells ils own story to a considerable ex
tent, but we might add : The steer was bought
March 15, 116, by the (treat Western commission
Co., to fill an order, tle price paid being $8.10, j
weight 1,160, total $1)3.58; the same steer was soldj
by them June 8, llJlb, at sjill.UU, tne lirst steer to sea
at that price on the Omaha market, weight 1,510
pounds, bringing $166.10.
NO OTHER PAPER LIKE IT
There is no other paper published in Nebraska
on the plan of The Nebraska Stockman, monthly,
printed in connection with special monthly stock
only because circumstances have favored the Stock
without disparagement to any other papers, may be
spoken of as the leading newspaper of the west half
of this state.
The reason that there are no other papers pub
lished on the plan of The Nebraska Stockmeu is not
hard to find: The reason is that there" is not enough
business in the proposition to make more than one
paper of this kind profitable. There are somes plen
did farm papers published in Nebraska and adjoin
ing states. These have their principal circulation, as
a matter of convenience and necessity, in the thickly
uottWlp fltrripiihiiral districts: and. as a matter of
course, arc devoted mostly to the subjects that are!
of most interest to the fanners of those sections. j
It's r hard matter to secure a circulation in a,
sparsely settlde ranching country sufficient to make
such a venture as The Nebraska Stockman a paying
proposition. The expense of sending out subscrip
tion solicitors in the sandhills country is larger, sev
eral times, in proportion to the number of people
reached, than in a thickly settled farming country,
KO that it is hard to secure a large list of subscribers.
A local newspaper that depends only, or principally,
upon th advertising of the merchants of the town ii!
which it is published, usually charges' a rate for ad
vertising space sufficient to pay the cost of publica
tion, whether the number of subscribers is two or
three hundred or two or three thousand; but the
paper that must depend for its advertising patron
age wholly upon customers at a distance from th
place of publication, must base its rates upon actual
circulation.
We are proud of the subscription and adverliv
ing patronage givn The -Nebraska Stoekmnii an"
The Alliance Herald; but as a mittvr of fact, it
men's editions of the weely Alliance Herald, wbiol
man-Herald proposition ami that the publishers have
been willing to do a lot of hard work for little pay i:
getting the Nebraska Stockman started that we have
succeeded in ge tting the enterprise established.
While we are speaking about it. we wish to sa
that The Nebraska Stockman is not a local paper, as
it has, in connection with the monthly stockmen's
editions of the Alliance Herald, a general circulation
thniout the Nebraska ranch country. Much time,
hard work and money is expended m securing mat
ter for the publication to make of it a paper accord
ing to our ideals of a ranchman 'h periodical. Am'
we wish to also express our appreciation of the en
operation which we have received from leading
ranchmen and others in helping to make a Nueces
of the enterprise.
' ' "'"'"' V'' ' ' Y ' ' ' ' ' 1 ' '' ' mil'"1 ' '" 1
, ;-..- S' - -""' ---T ,V-V-
rtlt-r' Tr J' s i
Scene in Omaha Union Stock Yards
Three Top-Notchcrs "The Great Western Twins" and the First $11.00 Steer Ever Sold On
the Omaha Market.
Omaha Live Stock Exchange on
"The Kelatiouship of the Coin
mission .Merchant ami the Ex
change to the Shipper."
Ueport of the chief brand in
spector in full, and a summary of
inspection for the past seventeen
years. Members oi the. Nebraska
Stock Growers' Association who'
wish to bring to the attention of'
other ranchmen the importance of
membership in the association
should call tneir attention to mis
report and summary and have
them make a little study of the
same.
Report of the secretary-treasurer.
j'eport of the committee on res
olutions. ,
IVnbatily a paper by L)r,;C-
Lee.eljhe tate Experiiuclit Sta
tion on" Animal Husbandry."
The above will not be puldished
as one continuous account of the
convention proceedings, but will
le- pi inltd under different head-j
ing., lhiiv making tlie publication;
mo i.' etlii.etive and the various
. iliel s more reatlable, one at a
1 Mile.
Entire' ri'nt -rsei.
Marie ' U t mv :e.ir. r J"i mii'M
Jie is not ec i ..1 r!;.;; your n i-i" y n .
proposing 1 yet;? !!t' (ri 1 1
sure! He sa ni y .si. t nigiil ho n:v
cr thought o. ..a. i. .i.nj;i.v ku-x i
hud it and U . Do cur-'U. - -
jUoBton Transt . ; i.
Her Supposition.
Miss Angelina (to Cn-in Prnwn,
who has been cniining in Aiubkau wa
ters) "I suppose, captain, that in
those northern latitudes during a part
of the year the sun doesn't sot till
'quite a while alter dark." Christian
Register.
Frut Ij Healthful.
Fruits nre not only wholesolhe as
food hut orton uct lienoliclally as med
teinoB riu :tdd of some fruits are
good deatrnycrs of disease gorms and
tend lu ri-Nti.lv ii h well uh keep the
otpaiiB ot eerel'vi and the whole di
festive iii.it in a iieiilihy condition.
Impc
Lovlryr t hi
tart ' ';-. (
arter 1. 1
- 'I'l;!' ! .i ui .. I.
-! . n... ,.
is li i It. Iv.'pui
J u.fnji V. : t ' i !:'
Huliol tanl t.iitifc.
" 'Her-' Firry-Ms.- v -
Th weipi't '. ' - :-Mtno o r.!"!'
in Ni-.t Vorfe h i. ' ,-. ; iu
We Have Ali Noticed It.
"Curi ' seiiu.nl ioumy quoted Pro-
fostuir .'uto, cine lioine lo roost.
"Just so!" nlurmd the Old toiler
"And tl.e eioro nr.u-.y and worihiost
they are th nio e lively they'll bo to
telegraph us to s. u-l thorn the nione
to coiuo iivjnie on. --i-iainsas City tstar
HAS IT OCCURED TO YOU?
OVERFLOW FROM
STOCKMEN'S EDITIONS
Two Editions of Herald Per Month Featuring Lire
btocK Business Necessary on Account of Large
Amount of Matter to be Published
INTERESTING ADDRESSES AND REPORTS
A report of the annual convention of the Ne
braska Stock Growers' Association, held in Alliance,
June 20 and 21, was published in The Herald, in the
issue next followin, a somewhat extended report, as
such reports ordinarily go; but a more extended re
port than has ever yet, to our knowledge, been pub
lished of such a meeting in Nebraska w ill be printed
in The Nebraska Stockman for July, to be issued the
latter part of the month. This report will not be v
reiteration of the program, such as is sometime
called a "report," but will contain the following:
Address of Kdward L. Burke, viee-chainnan of
the market committee of the National Live Stock
Association, on the work of the committee and the
importance of co-operation of raisers and shippers of
live stock.
Lecture of Prof. A. t!. Whit ford of New York oti
"The Prehistoric Animals of the Nebraska Plains."
Address of Dr. Hadleigh Mash of Washington.
D. C, on "Blackleg and Infectious Abortion."
Address of Secretary A. F. Stryker of the South
Men and live stock commission firms at the
markets accessible to the shippers from tho ranch
country of Nebraska, the territory in w hich The Ne
hraska Stockman and The Alliance Herald have
their principal circulation, make such large demanda
upon the advertising space of the two papers, and
there is so much to be published relative to live
stock interests, that one special stockmen's edition
per month devoted to such matters is not sufficient
at this season of the year, hence wo find it necessary
to publish in other issues of The Herald quite a con
siderable overflow matter from the special monthly
stockmen s edition, which contains the matter pre
pared for and published in The Nebraska Stockman,
monthly.
In this issue of The Herald, readers will find
much matter of the kind above referred to. We call
special attention to the advertisements of live stock
commission men who give particular attention to
Nebraska ranch cattle and take this means of reach
ing ranchmen with their announcements. Advertise
ments for the following firms, all doing business at
the South Omaha market, will be found in this is
sue of The Herald j IJryson Bros., Byers Bros. & Co.,
Cox-Jones-v an Alstinc Co., Farns-Marcy Co., Fra-zicr-Johnson
Co., Creat Western Commission Co.,
Inter-State Live Stock Commission Co., Mutual Live
Stock Commission -Co., Omaha Live Stock Commis
si . Co., L. E. Kooerts & Co., Snyder-Malone-Coff-
m an Co.
LIVE STOCK TRANSIT INSURANCE
Shippers who arc not accustomed to insuring
live stock in transit will do well to investigate this
kind of insurance. Taking into consideration the
matter of freight rates, the certainty of securing,
promptly an without unnecessary expense, the pay
ment of losses, if any occur, this is one of the best
and most profitable forms of insurance that can be
taken out. We refer to the advertisement of the live
stock department of the Hartford Fire Insurance
Company, appearing in this paper.
If the Preparedness Paradert Are So Strong for Preparedness
illllltf III! rwrak -
um r 'i fit J rhiJfnr yri i
Marzix c? mm? ff wan &m i
-v-
----- --
IT'S HERE, ALREADY
"Westward the star of empire takes it way."
lu tho Orient women work alongside the men doing
the hard labor of the field. In Europe they are
pretty near as bad, doing much of the farm work by
haud. In New England they farm with one horse.
In the Middle West the use a two-horse team. Far
ther west we use four horses. One man with four
horses will do twice the work that one man with two
horses can accomplish ami 20 times more than one
man can do with his hands. Also the tractor is com
;ng. Farmer and Breeder. . J
. 1 "
THE NEBRASKA STOCKMAN
The Nebraska Stockman is not a farm paper,
mt is what its name indicates, a stockman's publica
tion, devoted especially to the important ranching
interests of the western half of this state. Some
mention is made in The Stockman of farming mat
ters ami the development of agriculture in western
Nebraska, but these items have reference to matters
in which ranchmen are interested from the feeding
viewpoint.
The Nebraska Stockman is the paper that is dif
ferent. It is distinctly the ranchmen's publication.
We want the name of all the ranchmen and other
persons interested in this important industry on the
Mibseription list. If yours is not there now, send at
once to HERALD PUBLISHING CO., Alliance, Neb.
The subscription price' is fifty cents per year.
GOOD CORN AND HAY WEATHER
This hot weather is making tlu1 corn in eastern
Nebraska -and Iowa grow by leaps and .bounds.
What do ihe ranchmen of western Nebraska care for
corn weather? They are not growing much corn, to
be sure, but they're raising a lot of stuff that will
ieed corn next fall and winter, and the better the
rop of corn the stronger the demand will be for the
aiich stuff. Besides this is good hay weather for
the ranch inan, and especially favorable for those
who have low meadows.
A HUMMER, IF YOU PLEASE
The June edition of the Nebraska Stockman, is
sued from the office of the Herald Publishing Co.,
Alliance, was a hummer, the finest thing of the kind
vet printed in western Nebraska. The July number
will be of special interest on account of what it will
contain in the way of speeches, reports, etc., men
tioned elsewhert. besides much other interesting
matter. It is probably not saying too much that this
issue of The Stockman will be worth the price of a
venr s subscription to members of the Nebraska
Stock Growers' Association and other Nebraska
ranchmen. If vour name is not on the subscription
list and you want it there in time to insure getting
the July number, send it at once to nerald Publish-
intr Co., Alliance, Nebr. Price of the Nebraska
Stockman, monthly, one year, 50 cents; The Alliance
Herald, weekly, including monthly stokmen s edi
tion, 1.50 per year.
Why Not March to the Recreiti::-
'.7:;t.e T. ty Arc ltt. "?
Sioux City Journal
WAS HE THINKTNK OF NEBRASKA?
According to an editorial in the Farmer and
Breeder, published at Sioux City, Lieutenant Gov
ernor Harding, made an excellent point when he said
that "not only in the state of Iowa, but in every state
in the Union as well as in the federal government,
there has developed a mania for the passing of laws
and the creation of com missions."
