MAILS
From San Francisco
Ventura, July 10.
For Son Francisco
Thomas, July S.
From Vancouver:
. Niagara, July 11
. For Vancouver:
Makura, July 2L
3:30
I
Evening Bulletin, Eat. 1882. No. 6520
Hawaiian SUr. VoL" XXIV, No. 7561
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, JULY 6,' 1916. 12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
to
.wlf.li If.ll
Carranza Mptlomaw Wilis Point
oo.i ; 1 00 oo , 00
IIOME DEFEKE IS
HRSTfUiICTIOtl,
SAYS ffiSliCIGTfl!!
OKtanfift Frnmc Rnrrip.r and
; txpenses or iranspor -
tation Are Cited .
VONT BE INCLUDED IN
AUTHORIZATION TO WILSON
Special Congressional - Action
, : . to Provida fort Use of
I j ;J State Troops ?. ; :
"' k'- i ' ' - ' '
(AuorUted Press F4r1 Wireleai)
EL PASO, Tex July v--The bodies
ot Capt. Charles T. Boyd, 10th Ci
airy, and 1st Lieut. Henry R.. Adair.
10th Cavalry, tosether with those) of
lever troopers, all victim! of the
Wexlcans In the fight at CarHiil, ar
rived here today. The bodies were
stripped ' of their uniforms, but . not
mutilated. Eisht of them were found
In m ditch, where they had been cover
ed with soil. The ninth, a trooper who
died of wounds, was a mile from the
ethers. . .v; -V
: SACRAMENTO, Cal July 6-The
authorization from the war depart
ment for Capt. Wilson O. CUftt of the
regular army to take the. colonelcy of
the 2nd California National ' Guard
re;lment came too late, as the refll-
rnent had departed. MaJ. W. H. White
tf Chlco will be promoted and' Uke
,eemmand. 1 ' t - -
V
( AMUte! Trri 'ky Federal "Wlreleei)
? WASHINGTON, O, CJuly.ftOa
artmentsl commanders haver .been
j.thorized by Secretary of War Baker
to ciacharse enlisted men or uie miih
t!a who have been taken into the fed
eral service and who have one or more
dependent relatives. :r w s
.': ' r
-ty t. S. ALBEftT,
f?r-Jl Fur-Bntleila. Corriponaenc)' ,
"WASlflNGTON, D. C, June 19. Be
cause of Tcmote distance, heavy trans
rortatlon crpenscs and time required
for expe5!tious noTcnent, the -Ha
Vallan tniiitia oranUaticas were not
laTitcd to participate Iir guarding the
Mexican border.' - Furthermore, the
militia of the territory y la ' regarded
mere nearlr as a local i organliatlon.
for purely home defense, than any
other body in the National Guard. -
i Thii is the fciplatltsii felfeh hy the
nar department officials, following the
president's call for mobilization issued
to the governor of -every state , ex
cept Nevada, vfclch possesses no de
fensive organization. The District of
Columbia was la the favored class and
contemplates turning out a large rium.
ber of men in proportion to the size
of this capital city. 'V..-;. . i
Some officers invite attention to the1
fact that under the call It is proposed
to leave a sort of nucleus in, each
tlate, where a portion of the .National
Guard will , bo left , to 'perform such
duties as may arise. - These-would in
clude labor troubles,' -strikes, rioting
and the usual, class of disturbances
that result in the guard being brought
into local requisition. - 'v ; ,
In any event, the Hawaiian' militia
will not see service on the Mexican
border at present.. The organization
might be called out on a subsequent
Call, hut none is in Bight - There is
no reason to believe . the territorial
militia will be" included in the authori
zation to be given by Congress for
using the segregated . forces of: the
country in Mexico. Under existing
laws the militia may not be sent out
of the United States. "v i
. President Wilson Immediately 're
quested that this act be modified so
the National Guard couli . bo sent
across the border -into Mexico. -If the
troops of Hawaii are not included In
this broadening oT the statute the
last chance of its members to see b
tlve service in Mexico will be gone
for the present, at least
GREAT UNIVERSITY HERE '
.if - LEUSCHNER PREDICTS
1 "Hawaii" should have an iattitntion
; . of learning second to none,- said Pn
, fessor Armln Otto Leuschner,- dean bf
. the graduate schoolAf the University
. of California and a . graduate of .tho
University: of; Michigan, before the
V members and guests of the University
Club at luncheon today. rv; . : ?.
" "Art literature and science should
flourish here, and the beginning that
has been made shows that the people
-! of Hawaii are Interested In education.
.. ' but they can go further and work out
the principles that have been follow
- ed In the march of education.: v, , .
. y "Westward the course of learning
wends Its way, find it is still march
., Ing to the setting sun. California-on
the western shores of the continent
fend Stanford University have becomo
rreat Isstituticns of learning,1 and the
t - V. c i r;a 'Hawaii' thalt
WILSON ACCEPTS
TO TALK OUT DIFFERENCES
, - . ; .- - (Associated Press by Federal Wireless)
WASHINGTON, D. C, July .6. President Wilson will accept Car
ranza'i assufances that the; de factd govetnment will safeguard for
eign lives and property in Mexico and Join the United States in punish
ing the border bandits. I
This has beeri definitely decided. Formal acceptance of Carran
za's proposal that the differences -between the two countries be settTed
hf direct hegbtlatlohS will be despatched to Mexico City soon, the pres
ident ; Md r Sf eury. Lansing : have decided;
Lansing leaves on at month's Vacation tomorrow.
The indications are that the 'reply to Carranza will start in a few
days. ) , "' "
A -
Booze Used in Celebrating July
mm m mm mm IBS
hourtn, Alleged to Have
. Caused Trbiibles
t (Special Star-Bulletin Correfponilenee)
SCHOFIELD BARRACKS, July 6.-
The death ot Private John W. Jtane
6n the evening of July 4 has brought
ripen trloATh to W R&tterv. 1st F. A.: and
to the entire field artillery at Schd-
fleld. Fjane was a young man or
25 from , South Bend, Indiana, y He
transferred a. few months ago
from tho 6th Held Artillery, and was
on his second enlistment. v.: '
Last month he took part in tne races
at Kacalolanf Park, and carried - off
tntrd prize In thd exciting Roman race.
He was rated as one, of the best ath
letes In the regiment and was slated
to .play shortstop; on ; the- regimental
baseball team, y - v ...J'- "
In spite of his popularity , In his bat'
tery r And -1 regiment, there is deep
sympathy fdr JPrivate James Sir Sbnei,
the battery barber of Battery, who
crave Frane a pelt with his fist that
without doubt contributed toward his
death," if It were not the direct cause.
A board of officers has been thorough
ly investigating the case; but it is im
possiblo, at this time, to ascertain the
result of their investigation. It Is evi
dent however, that the, testimony bf
eye witnesses Is very conflicting and
U;ere are many" points about the i c'aie
that can be seen from two angles. -
Drink lnducesTrouble , ; , v ; . t ,
Frane was . drunk, in fact he was
very drunk-- He had been celebatlng
the Fourth wrlth several other mem
bers of the battery. In Waiele Gulch,
or "Laundry" Gulch as it is tomindhiy
called. Booze was the ndeahs of cele
brating, and booze is . the culprit that
(Continued on page four)
(AstoeUte Pm by Federal Wlreleei)
WASHINGTON' v b. , (1. July 6.
News arrived here today that 250
revolutionists of Santo Domingo and
a detachment of American marines
mritmrmA In battle) crevious : to the
word having reached the" rebels that
the disarmament agreement had gone
Into effect Twehty-seven Domini
cans : were killed and five captured,
while the - American losses were one
marine killed and eight .wounded.
' -i ' :
HAWAIIAN B0 ARD, M AY .
' BRING MAN FROM JAPAN
The Hawaiian 4 Board of ; Missions,
now holding a meeting at HIlo, has
appointed a secretarial - council, thus
doing away with ..the general secre
taryship. The following persons com
pose the councllt r ' - T v
H, P. Jbdd, torrespondlng secreta
ry; Theodora Richards, treasurer? N.
C Schenck, superintendent of the
Chinese department; r. S. . Scudder,
supefintendent of the Japanese de
partment and Akalko Akana, super
intendent .-of - the ,Young People's
League. f ' . .' ' ' . -r'.' 1
The board has decided to extend an
invitation td Merle David, secretary
of the Y. M. C A., at Tokio, Japan, to
come to Honolulu to take charge of
publicity: and Filipino work.
movement still . fjnrther, toward : the
west,:--, ; c::?L .:'-;
.TU was 4" great source of pleasure
to me to ; watch ; the. work that has
been done' by Thomas A, Jaggar, Jr
at the volcano. 'Hawaii has need for
such' men, rand .-the research' work
Ehcruld be furthered.' ' . - " :
SSIlTHf
am REoas
FQIIT, LOSE TO
mm of y. s.
PROPOSAL
New Ruling is Made to Comply
VYitn , Requirements of
Defense Act
All officers of the National Guard
of Hawaii must take a heir Oath of
office and all enlisted men must sign
a. . npw - enlistment contract -and sub
scribe to a. new enlistment oath, an
order from the minua bureau ot tne
war departnienffeceited Wednesday
ahd made public today l?y National
Guard headquarters, requires.
Thia rule affects every National
Guard -organization , In the United
States1 and territories, despite the
tict' thatrao1 fa aa Hawaii . la con
cerned, both the officers oaths and
enlisted men's contfacU : contain the
dual , pledge dt allegiance to the ter
ritory and the United States.. - ; '
. " Guard head'qfiattets, today mailed to
every, dejlartmeht" and ttomparijr coin-Tuooi-.inotriitihfii
ft trr thfl meth-
,od of- procedure required.- Prompt
compliance unnecessary, as no ?unaa
appropriated: under th : National ,De
fcuse adt ". passed June S can be ex
pended' on any part .of the. present
organized militia until recognition, is
extended itheBP nnder the provisions
of the act -
There is no substantial difference
In the wording bf the new oath from
the old -form but, compliance with 'the
trie ; will nevertheless mean a good
deal rir ' wofrK for" oreanlzation and
eempany commanders; ! as f compli
ance is absolutely necessary Deiore
n v ATiHiitd ' men or officers can re
ceive their pay as provided by the
A; list of all officers and enlisted
menby name will be forwarded to the
militia bureau, as it has been re
quested. Vr- ;
(Aeeocleted Preee by Tederel Wlreleee)
nptw YORK. N. Y.. July 6. Tcn-
ty-four additional deaths from infan
tile paralysis occurreo m ureaier
tcw York, in the last 24 hours, keep
ing up the previous day's record of a
death an hour.
, Mayor, Mltckfel this afternoon in
Ktnjptpd the citv comptroller to pro-
vlde $80,000, to be raised through a
bond Issue, for toe use or tne neaiin
department in employing nurses and
physicians In battling with the dis
ease. -.-
PlNE SHOWING MADE
AT KAUAI BY MEN OF
4TH INFANTRY, N. G.H.
That the 4Ch Infantry was mobiliz
ed in two hours at Lihue, Kaiiai, on
July 4, is stated in a radio message
received at National Guard headquar:
ters late Wednesday from Brig.-Gen.
Samuel L Johnson, commanding the
National Guard of Hawaii
"The complete regiment of 12 com
panies, hospital corps and band, was
mobilized in two hours," says Gen.
Johnson's -s message, dated July 5.
This la aa excellent military achieve-'
ment The regimental parade, review.!
competitive military and athletic
events, were all surprisingly good.
"Governor Plnkham says he is de-,
lighted with the showing of the 4th
Infahtry, end predicts that it will j
soon, be one of the crack regiments. of ,
the. group. The greatest crowd in the
history ot Kauai attended the July;
Fourth celebration. - Weather Was;
ideal. -J 'The governor banquets the
NatftmaTTJuard off leers : ef Kauai, to
morrow Jevening.' - -" -y ,;- ,
RESlSlD
SUNDRY CIVIL BILL GOING
ALONG WITH $128,299,284
(Associated Press
I WASHINGTON. D. C. July 6.
j big sum of 1128,29984, has been
j conferees.
j It is expected to be approved
oosiacie co its passage is now in signi.
An amendment to the bill provides that the appropriation for the
new government powder factory may be used for the purchase or con
struction of a plant, or for the enlargement of one now. owned by the
goternment
"IB fclSSs
AND CREIV ALSO BERLIN DESPATCH
Coveted E" is Believed Won
arid Divisidn Trophy is
Thought Retained
OfndERs'vNd
FOR NOTIFICATION
Hichest honors awarded any sub-
marine in the United States navy, the checked and 'the Germans are begin
doteted "E,"-given each year to the ning td take prisoners, according to
undersea raider making the best seore
in torpedo practise, will probably go
to the K-S of the third submarine dl-
vision, - Pacific fleetij sUtioned at
Pearl Harbor, if wasj learned- today .
from an authoritative Source.- j
Last ' year the third division won
th division trophy but not the in- combats. i v " : " -,
dtvlduaL This year as av. result of; -During-the last few days 48 ,offi
laBt month's torpedo practise off La- cers, 1867 unwounded British soldiers
haiha Mani; thy hate retained the ere prisonered on the right bank of
former trophy, and comparison of the the Ancre. On both sides' of Somme
1916 records made bx each submar- since yesterday evening fresh, heavy
toe of eafeh ' drrislc4t, .)sd; faf as ob-; combats, were engaged in, the enemy
talnable here, makes if practically cer- rLdwhere" gaining seriotis advantages, -i
tain that the KS has won . the Indi
vidual trophy, earning the right ' to
palntTEr,r in white o .her bow, de
noting, the highest efficiency attamea I
by;:imy'rsTromamette-AineTican
navy fluting 1916.
. Formal notification from the navy J
department that the K-8 nas won tne ghelled without effect from kea. " '
individual trophyr-is - beings awaited ' "Hlndenburg annyr The enemy con
by officers of the third, division. .The . unued enterprises; against this front
letter "E,? token of this trophy, means e8peeially on both sides of the Bmor
TSxcellent" and accompanying itwill , gon; German air squadrons copiously
be a pennant and a cash prize,
amounting, it is said, to about $20' for
every man in the submarine's, crew.
According to : the Navy Directory
of May ? 1- there are eight divisions,
four v with the Atlantic fleet three
with the Pacific fleet (of which, the
third division- stationed here, is a
unit) and one, consisting of nine sub
marines, with the Asiatic fleet ,
tThe third submarine division of the
Pacific' fleet stationed at Pearl Har
bor: cbnsiaU bf the K-3, K-4; K-7 and
K3. Other boats of the K type are
to the fourth division of the Atlantic j
neeCt wmcn nas uie rv-,
' The first submarine division ot tne
Pacific .fleet consists of the F-l, F-2
and F-3;.H0W lit" erdinary" at Mare
island, undergoing repairs. They are
sister-ships of the Ill-fated F-4 and
were - formerly stationed here.
Commanding - the K-8 is Ldeut J.
W. Lewis. v His assistant is Ensign C.
Br Bvffie. Commanding the tniw oi-
visloti is ; Lieut-Cdmdf. Thomas C.
Hart.' ; ' ': ' 'tmt'-
raniv 300 die
ill sikly ,:!;:es
AtterrTiath of Stromb6n;0iit
break is Severe Earthquakes
atcattanissetta
(AeeocUtod Preae by irederel Wlreleee)
ROME, Italy', July 6.olloWlrig the
dutbreak if the volcind of Strfrbotl
early yesterday there 'Was a severs
earthquake at Caltanlsseftat Sicily,
today. Heady ' 300 rhen at work In
the - aulphuf Miwea thefe were; en
t6mbed by cave-lhs or otherwise kill
ed;.' . ,r -
hserSio
(Associated Presi by Tederel Wireless)
-t -'' ":
4. 'SAN FRANCISCOi July 6.
John Rosseiter of the Pacific
4- Mail Steamship Company return- -f
f fed ffonrNew York yesterday -f
f with the declaration that by Aug-
f ust the- transpacific "servlee of -f
f the company will be restored l-f
with the departure' bf the steam-'
f ship ' Ecuador" for the Orient
f Later the other two recently-pur-
chased ' Steamers, the- Venezuela
and; the. Columbia, will enter, the
f transpacific service. -4-
&' ;4;4tt
by Federal Wireless)
The sundry civil bill, carrying the
agreed upon by the house and senate
by the house and senate today, as no
Germans Begiiinifig to Tke
Prisoners, Asserts Official
Cablegram
HEAVY, FIGHTiNG IN
EAST, RESULT IN DOUBT
Britain's offensive On the west is
the official Berlin cablegram ror yes
terday. received this morning; It
says: " ',
"GERMAN HEADQUAkTERS, July
5.-From the cbast up to Ancf e ; only
artillery and; minethrowers - are - In
activity, besides small reconnoitering
"West Meuser oN special -events. !'
"East Meuse: The French again at
tacked ; with : strong forces, ' but with
out -success 1 attempted to . adT-ange
agaihslt our positions . northwest f
Thlauihont ;
- "East front: The Courlahdlan coast
bombed railroad and ttoop concentre
tldns vicinity of Minsk. v;-:: ' -"Prince
Leopold's army: Russians
resumed activity on the 21ria . front
until south of Baranowitschl,. being
repulsed In ; very; tenacious hand-to-hand
fighting or ejected from 'places
where they penetrated defenses. The
enemy suffered heaviest losses. t f i
rLlnslngen's army: . Both sides of
Kostiuchnovka and northwest of Czar
torysk and horwest of Kollkl combats
engaged In. ; Russian . detachments
which crossed the Styr west of Kollkl
were attacked At raany placeg north
I and west and southwest of Luck; to
the district of Werben and northwest
of Berestezko all the enemy's attempts
undertaken "with strong forces, In or
der . tor reconquef ' advantages ob
tained ? by-nsi failed. - Besides heavy
bloody Russian losses we captured. 11
officers ahd 1139 meh.'-- ' -:-S-
, 'Our -flyers attacked : railroad knd
troop concentrations in Luck. ' s ;
t "Bothmer's army: South of. Barys i
the enemy: temporarily obtained .foot
Ing - In one small - track in first line.
Our success southeast of TlamaczCwas
extended.".- ' ;
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
At Boston Boston 6, Cleveland 5.
At Washington Washington 2,' 8t
Louis 1.
, At New York New York 4, Chica-
At PhlladielpWa Detroit 9, Phila
delphia 4. .' ' if
NATIONAL LEAGUE
1 At Pittsburg New York 12, Pitts
burg 6.
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
....... . .. -v v '. r ;
j BASEBALL RESULTS - '
j TODAY
4
Won. Lost Pet
New York ......... 43 25 632
Boston 38 31 551
Chicago . 38 31 551
Cleveland 38 31 551
Washington 3d 33 522
Detroit ..36 SB 500
St Louis. ........... 27 41 397
Philadelphia 19 48 284
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Won. Lost Pet
Brooklyn ... 38 24 813
Boston . 33 26 559
Philadelphia . 34 29 5i
Chicago 35 36 433
New York 30 32 44
Pittsburg . ........ 3t 35 470
Cincinnati . ........ 30 35" 435
St Louis . 30 II 123
That Queen Llliuokalani is mental
ly competent aqd sane was the rab
stance of testimony given in Circuit
Judge Whitney's court today by W. O.
Smltb in eozmectkm . with the jcab
brougnt: by i Delegate ' Kunio to break
tbe Lilioukalaul, trust:
-
e
. The supervising principals of the
vafioul Islands , met today to "discuss
tb9 work'ff f"vi 'prf'HT,,''
mm
. . : r .
HARD FIGHTING OtJIHEffiST;
Si&marinss Get Victims Paris Clslins Success tx.
Somme v
'. -
(AeeeeUted Preee SertUe by ederal Wlreleee) ,
BERLIN, Germany, July 6. -Afte r th Russian attacks on th pasltlona
taken up by Gsn. Count von Bothmer's army Jn Gallcla had been repuls-v
ed, the Teutonic armies were started to shifting In order te rtinforcs the
: neighboring sectors, where the Slavs are continuing the attempted often- -Ive.
i . ': Vu!
;ln the section between Ancre and the Somme, en the wesVthe heavy
fighting continues today. Minor progress, has been madegby the . British :
near Thlepval, but It is balanced by German counter attacks. ; Further
south the British obtained av footing in an advanced' trench salient '
The Germane have evacuaUd the village of Hem. " The French have
captured Belloy-en-Santerre, southwest of Peroene.
: - -
PETROGRAD, Ruse's,; Juljf1 6v More than 10,000 i Teutons have been
captured in recent fighting half of whorri wtre taken on the Dnelttsr front v A
. - i.-,..T .'v. ; . ' ; '
(lseoeUle4 Frese Serrlee by Federal Wlreleu) ' : ;s ;' '
LONDONt England July 6.- Great advances made by the.Rus- ' j
sians on the east during the last few weeks are bringing the: Czar's ; ' '
armies down again on . that part of Galicia which leads to Lembcrg.-; '
Furthermore, the latest reports show that with the weather f avorr-';--J
able the Slavs have taken the ;bf fensive- oii the' entire easterrf front. " ;
Petrograd despatches today report successesall the way from Riga to- v
the GirpatWans, and J there are rtimors that the: Russians Jiayef pene '.f
iraied ' somejol therGtrpathian passes and 'are ; wdrking down into the
plains of Hungary; dose7 to the Roumanian frontier. ' '
i In the Galician country beyond the river Stfypa the Russians have ; '
crossed the railway between Delatyn and Korosmezo.and have cap-
fured lokoupchinei Their progress here; is so steady that it is believed K
the Austrians may withdraw towards Lemberg. thus fiehtin over thej
Hjound won many months aco. after FranzJosefs soldiers had dis
lodged the captors of the Lemberg
on West. Front Today
Thrown
Badr
V (AeeoeieteA Preee Serrice
V - BERLIN, ;Germany, Ju
ftxiitslotIay;ftunlerbiis:'a
met wimj such determined resistance) thaf? the atfackingparties!were
broken down and annihilated or. forced to give- back under heavy losses. ,;; !
t: i ne rrencn made ,a stiu attempt southwest of the fort position ,-
of Vaux;'on theYerdun line, to advance but were repulsed. An en- i ;;
deavor to recapture the Damloup Hill bahery-was equally unsuccess-
IviUii From fhe Aisnevdistnct the Frenchi made atrong effort to rush V !
the German lines northwest, of ; Rhcims; but were thrown back with '
serious losses
0 i -
Fighting
Around
Hftrn
Verdun
Cathedral
j.Tpw' (Aeeecieted Preee Kerviee ty Federal Wirelese) ; .'' - - .
' r I PARIS; France, July 6.The Germans today ' succeeded id captur-
ing two small pieces of woods north of Hem, The French also took a" ;
wood which had been the. center of sharp fighting. '
Xi I No infantry attacks occurred today at Verdurf. ;'.': -r' '" - z '
r rThe' Germans today ire' a
dralf many of their. shells oassing close to the; famous towers.. -1 : :
f- i"
Advance
:. - . , v '''011 Pw 8errlee by Federit VTireleu) . , ; -.v "
LONDON, England. July 6. Near ThiepvaL on the cart of the '. -:'
western front wliere -the-British have 'takeh the offensive; the 'British;
avuicrs luuay maae; a gunner sngnt aavance. a numDcr ot prisoners
were taken. , tS:-tj-y ' '
Having captured 'the whole German second line 'south cl the river
Somme to, Bellow the - French have" resumed activity today on "he .
north. They have cleared the bank almost, to. Clery and established .
themselves at Sormont farm. - Here they threaten Oery.fi l :;V, ; " ;
Along a line from Hardicqurt to Commecourt the British" are heavily i ' '
engaged today, the Germans making a strong resistance. - v-
German
Submarir!
One
Gets Dncli From Snom
(Aeeecieled Pwei eTrie
JJiiKLIN, . Germany, July 6. Twd. special successes of German . j
submarines were announced today. :r X'.:---'y ?'-?V '
An enemy destroyer operating in tnd Nbrih Sea tvas Attacked and 1
sunk by a German submarineV and ;nothef, fjera sut?3iarine,: re- i
turning from.. Cartagena, SpabsaAk thei armed - Ffoich steamship s -
Herault.' -' - ;, ' "l V'V'-;V.' l:V:: ?-s 1
It seems likely that this latteV submarine il the one reined few
days ago; as" having ? reached Cartagena with a' letter -from, thj kaiser '
to King Alphonso of Spain. ?:".,S'-iv,v '; r l.v-1. '.
AUCTIOhOFOM.C.
GOODS FIELDS $1031
A total of 13L87 was realized
tbis afternoon when tbe auction sale
of condemned equipment" and live
stock of th Quartermaster, Cerpv 17.
S. A., bad finished. Tbe.-auction was
conducted by tbe James F. Morgan
Company, with E. U Schwartzberg as
auctioneer. There ; iwere 13 , horses
and two males auctioned, the returns
froin them averaging $8) eaeJ, . Har
ness,' carts ', aad other mdc!nned
equipment also went on the block. -
It should bo judged and marked.' An-
bther" 'tseetlis will be'teli tzzizivc
fortress. ; ; f ;
br FeAerel Wireleeal V - ,
j
Pfiw?-
4f
Undsr Hci Fire
:3:0csrau;
Perl
by Fedarst VirelHl) ' i .
tfOSTEFl UPAVISTA'S 1;
PASSAGE Ofi TRAf.CCnT
THOMAS 01 V.'JD." " ! ? DAY
Foster U tlAvis. former rler tr the '
U. 8. eoufi left ictj&d' Francisco hi
the tfattspoftf 'Thomas Wedaeaday .
evening: Accordlnj V to a brother
Datls . Intends- to go into business ft
the coast city and may rerun there
fori about 'two years. . Div: in
dicted onva charge of irrt:-.! rit! ? i
la the business of a!s c.V.' v
exonerated in a deciaica frc j J
XV. W. Sforrow oftlie co;r c! :
of ' the' n!-th c!-"- -'
