he
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
tin.
Fair Thursday and Friday: moderate
northeast to southeast winds.
Ighest temperature yesterday, 67 ; lowest, 59.
etallcd weather, mall and murine reports on page 13.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 310.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1916. Copyright, 1916. by the Sun Printing and l'ublhhtni; AntoclaUon.
OVI? PPMT1 In tlrrater New Wk. 1 Kl.rwlierj.
UINo LilllIN 1 jersey illy and .Nfimrk. ) TVHI t IINTS.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
MEXICAN WAR
AVERTED, VIEW
IN WASHINGTON
Ouriuia's Note, Now in
Wilson's Hands, Js Called
Satisfactory.
r. s. tkoops win
KKTlltK C.HAMAUY
ililitia to Stay on llorder
Fronticr Trotcctioirto
5o Arraii?cd Later.
WvsiitsiiTON, .July 6. Early re
sumption of friendly diplomatic con
vu.x.ttions with the tie facto Govern
ment of Mexico to the end that peace
tnd crder may bo restored In northern
Mexico and along the border Is ex
K''td here to lie the next step of
the I 'III ltd St. ites In Its relations with
Us Southern neighbor.
The crisis, precipitated by Villa's
raid on Columbus, N. M., and cul
minating In the tight between Ameri
can Jiid Mexican troops at Carrtzal,
Mexico, appeared to-night to have
been dissipated by the amicable note
from Gen. Carrnnza, presented during
the day by his Ambassador Designate
here, Ellseo Arrcdondo.
The note proposes, that the differ
ences between the Governments be
settled either by mediation or by di
rect negotiations. It is remarkable for
Its brevity. Its restrained and friendly
tone and for the absolute lack of any
of the strong, even Insolent language
which characterized the last two com
munications from the dc facto Govern
ment. It treats as a closed Incident
the exchange of unfriendly communi
cations which brought war almost
within sight.
It is believed at lxith the Embassy
nd the State Department that the re
ply was personally dictated by Gen.
Carranza.
Test of the Note.
The note as transmitted by Mr. Ar
rtdotulo is as follows:
Wahiinoton, D. C, July 4, 1911.
Jr. e'trirfnrj;;
I have the honor to transmit In
continuation the text of a note I have
Jut received from my' Government,
nlth Instructions to present It to your
Uxcellency : ,
llr Secrctuty:
Iteferrlng to the notes of June 20
nd 23 last 1 have the honor to say
to your Excellency that the Imme
diate release of the Carrlzal prisoners
n.is a further proof oftne sincerity
cf the lit. i i'H of this Government to
reach a piicltlc and satisfactory ar
rangement of present dltllcultles. This
linurninent Is anxious to su)e the
(resent conflict, and It would be un
jut If Its attitude were misinterpreted.
It was also the Mexican Government
Uiat earnestly suggested a plan fur
cantonments along the boundary line
outing the conferences of Cludad
Ju.iicz and 131 Paso. This Government
is deposed now, as it has always
I-in, to seek an immediate solution
cf the two points which constitute
the true causes of the conlllct between
tn two countries, to wit:
The American Government believes
reasonably that the Insecurity of Its
frontier is u source of difficulty and
tin Mexican Goverrfment on its part
I'lkves that the stay of American
tiwips on Mexican territory, aside from
being a trespass on the sovereignty of
Mexico, is the Immediate cause of the
cunlllctx. Therefore the withdrawal of
American troops, on one hand, and the
ptoteetlon of the frontier, on the other,
re the two essential pioblems, the
'iliithm of which must bu the direct
ing object of tho efforts of both Gov
ernments. Itrnily for Qnlek Action.
The Mexican Government Is willing
to i (insider in a quick and vractieal
ay, and prompted by a spirit of
cuiKord, thu remedies which should
be applied to the present situation.
Several Latin American countries
luve offered their friendly mediation
to the Mexican Government and the
latter has accepted It In principle
Tlienforo the Mexican Government
only awaits information that the Gov
(riiiiimt f the United States would
be disposed to accept this mediation
for the purpose mentioned above, or
whether It is still of the belief that
the Mimo results may be attained by
means of illnvt negotiations between
both Governments.
In the meantime this Government
Jiiopn.sc to employ all efforts that may
l at its disposal to avoid the re-
i ut mice of new Incidents which may
ioiiiilii:ile and aggravate the sltuu
t'"t. At tile s.imo time it hopes that
the Aniei lean Government on its part
" make uc of all efforts to prevent
in-, n w sictH of Its military und civil
ii iMinrllii-N of the ftontler that might
la ii ni w i (implications,
1 avail msef of this opportunity
to reitemte to your Excellency the
S Miruni o of my most distinguished
tuiih.dei.ttlon,
c. Aoijii.au.
I In Uitr thus compllpil with higher
IriMl in ilons of my Government it af
fo'ib in,' plenum e to reiterate to your
llvelhney the assurance of my high-
ft lonsldeiatlon.
E. Aiiiuiixisno.
Tiki I'lnns suggested.
Tun plans of proicilurii are suggested
"i I'arranzi. They are mediation by
tie Latin American countries or direct
"uotlatlon between tho American State
'"P irtini nt nnd the Mexican Foreign
"nice Secretary lnnslng declined to
'rciMM which procedure niipeated most
I'sely to be resorted to, but It wbh cx
lil.i. nd that there Is no particular rea-
hi why the two governments should not
tn-uinn tho negotiations which wcio be
ui.n )iy tho Scou-Obrrgou conferences on
din border, but broken off been use of
' 'c nubility to agree on the basic qucs.
' n of the wlthdiiiwiil of the American
troop 'fids niiestlon now, It in ex
I1'1' t'd!, piDuiln-.'i in be cllnilnatrd na a
"winnii lime;, i in i , in'cnuse lien.
CMI.Jy ... I . . .1.1 I . -
w vvniniiiu vn 4ill, u 4 i'V,
AND NEW YORK
INFANT PARALYSIS !
IN EPIDEMIC STAGEi
Spvpii More Dentils, 11JI Xcw
Cases Cause .1100,000 Emer
gency Appropriation.
MOKE NTHSES NEEDED
Brooklyn Reports Hulk of
Cases, hut Many Arc Found j
Out of Town.
New York city was declared by the
Hoard of Health and tho .Mayor yester
day to v In "great and Imminent peril
of nn epidemic" of Infantile paralysis.
The Mayor at the request of the Hoard
of Health authorized the Comptroller to
sell emergency lionds up to Jso.000 to
meet expenses of lighting the disease.
Such an Issue of bonds without the
authority of tlio Hoard of Kstlmate is
authorized In section 1 ITS of the City
Charter whenever the Hoard of Health's
I coords present evidence of danger of an
epidemic. Health Commissioner Haven
Kmersou estimated that he Would need
141,000 at least.
He said tnai supplies, fifty Internes,
fifteen medical inspectors and at least
150 nurses would be required. There Is
one nurse for every sixteen babies In
the hospitals at present, whereas Dr.
Kinetson asserts that every seven babies
should have at least one nurse. More
nurses arc needed tu the Wlllard Parker
and the Kingston Avenue hospitals at
once.
"I would not say that the situation Is
worse to-day," said Commissioner Emer
son last night, "but It is grave. As a
tact I nave not had time to examine the
records slnco 10 o'clock this morning, for
I have been busy taking measures to
care for the atntcted children and mak
ing arrangements, if possibles" to prevent
further spread of the disease."
rw Itrcorda for Heaths.
Dr. Kmerson explained that his decla
ration us to the peril to the city was
based on statistics compiled up to 10
o'clock In the morning. These figures
show an Increase of 113 new cases up to
that hour In the whole city, making- a
total to date of 6:3. There were seven
more deaths In the city and two In the
suburbs. The total of deaths In New
York is 134. The death rate exceeds
all records of previous epidemics of In
fantile paraljsls. i
There was a startling Increase of new
cases In Manhattan yesterday, eighteen
being recorded. They are In tho Cherry
Hill section and along the upper Kast
Ide. Brooklyn In foity-elght hours r
pviied i. u new cases, of wtiU'h ill wcie
discovered in the twenty-four hours up
to lu ,. M. In Richmond there wcro
two more cases; Queens, two and In the
Hrorix, none.
There are 223 babies suffering with
the disease In the Kingston Avenue Hos
pital, and .la In the Wlllard Parker Hos
pital. I'm in noon Saturday until yes
terday morning, Ja deaths from the dis
ease occurred In the city alone.
Keur of the disease caused thousands
of parents to hurry their children from
the city. The amiouncemcnt of that exo
dus gave concern to the health authori
ties of other cities, for Dr. Kmeraon had
informed them of the epidemic In New
York and had advised them to take pre
cautions. In Chicago, eighteen medlcil
inspectors were watching trains from the
Katt. In New Jersey several Institu
tions announced they would not receive
children until danger from the scourga
In New York has passed.
The plans which Dr. Emerson and nls
staff have worked out for lighting tlw
disease Involve two distinct phases.
Flrsl, the Health Commissioner wants
to have all possible attention and care
given to babies in the hospitals and the
best of supervision of the cases reported
in homes. That was the reason for salt
ing for additional funds,
Thlnka Disease Communicable.
Second, he la determined to put Into
effect every possible measure to prevent
the spread of the disease. He la work
ing on the theory that the disease Is
communicable; that the germs live In
the nose and are wafted about In dust.
Thu most Important measure adopted
yesterday was the issuance of orders
by George II. Hell, Commissioner of
Licenses, to all theatres and motion
picture houses forbidding the admission
of children under lfi years. Dr. Emer
son desires to keep children away from
closed places of assembly. Ho fears
that children may get the disease by
breathing bad air.
This order affects more than 800 play
houses and motion picture theatres
throughout the city. Commissioner Hell
and Assistant Commlsloner Kaufmann
visited the East tilde and parts of
Hrooklyn yesterday, laying emphails on
the order. He said that any violation
would be followed by rescinding the
license.
Sunday schools and churches may be
' affected. Dr. Emerson wrote to every
i pastor In the city yesterday calling at
l tenllon to the prevalence of the disease
.mil asking the co-operation nt the
preachers. It Is possible that Sunday
school sessions mny be discontinued In
the Infected district. Dr. Kmeraon
nii'ile It clear In his letter that the
Health Department expects each school
to have a doctor present at each session
to Inspect children who attend. Tho or
ders are to excludn any child who comes
from an Infected house.
To Inspect Kxrnrslnna.
Dr. Emerson said that the department
will not Interfere with the regular sum
mer school classes nor with the work of
the fresh nlr funds nor with the dally
health excursions such us are conducted
by St. John's Guild. Ho directed, how
ever, that doctors should make rigorous
dally inspections of all children attend
ing them. Children coming from Infected
houses nre to be excluded. Tho fresh air
fluids must have n doctor always pres.
cut at the excursions und every child
must lie examined before being went out
of town.
"The department disapproves," said
Dr. Emerson, "of all priunlscuouH gather
liiga of children which do not Include
medical precautions," Hucause of that
attitude several Hiuiday school picnics
were postponed yesterday.
Everv effort Is being made to safe
guard the children In city institutions.
Dr, Eineivon iitdereil that, for the pres-
CoinlHued en Uixth Pg,
Many Cilies Report
Spread of Disease
rpiiE spread of the present epi
demic of infantile paralysis
in New York and other places
throughout the country is shown
by the following statistics:
City. Deaths. Cases,
New York 134 623
Nassau county. .. . 1 4
Albany 1
Fitrmingdale 5
Hudson t
Greenport 1
Kingston 1
Deacon , 1
Binghamton 1 1
Newark, N. J 1 7
Newport 2
Springfield, 111.,
(many cases
statistics lack
ing). Chicago 3
137 656
RICHMOND CHECKED i
IN GARBAGE FIGHT'
Two Decisions by Justice
t'ropsey Appear to Forecast
Eventual Defeat in Court.
Justice rropsey. In the Supreme Court,
Hrooklyn. handed down three decisions
yesterday In connection with the right
to keep the proposed municipal garbage
disposal plant out of ltlcbmond borough.
Two decisions favor the contracting
company and forecast ultimate defeat
for tho opponents of the plant.
The Staten Islanders win a minor
point, a writ to compel Ilullding Super
intendent McDermott to Issue a permit
to the contractors, now denied on the
ground that reasonable time should be
allowed that official In which to study
the plans and specifications:
Mrs. Janet P. Doyle, as a taxpayer,
sought to enjoin the Mayor and Police
(Commissioner, alleging that the main
tenance of seventy-five policemen on
I.nke Island was a waste of public
funds. In refusing the injunction Jus
tice Cropsey said the answering papers
showed that "crime, even murder, might
be committed and that the notion of the
authorities was not only justified but
required hy law."
An application by the Lake Island
Healty Company for an Injunction
restraining issuance of a building per
mit to the Metropolitan Hy-Products
Company Is denied on the ground that
the latter has "at least a color of title
acquired In good faith."
The Vigilance Committee of 100 met
In lllchmond Horough Hall, St. George,
last night and discussed ways and
means of continuing the tight ngalnst the
gnrbage disposal plant. Thomas Gar
rett, counsel for the Lake Island Com
pany, owned by the committee, said that
an appeal probably will be taken from
Justice Cropsey's decision. The com
mittee will meet again to-night.
Gov. Whitman has notified niehmond
residents that he will hear their griev
ances at Albany on July 13. Member
of the Women's Anti-Garbage Iieaguo
will accompany the delegation.
FUNERAL TRAIN AT BORDER.
Bodies of tap. Boyd and Meat.
Adair neaeh Jnares.
Cf. Paso. July S. The bodies of Capt.
Charles T. Boyd. Lieut. Henry T. Adair
nnd seven troopers of the Tenth Cavalry
who fell with them In the fight with Car
ranza trops at Carrlzal were brought to
Juarez at midnight to-night aboard a
special train from Villa Ahumada.
Gen. George Hell, Jr., commanding the
El Paso military district, announced
tihat he had arranged for tho train bear
ing them to oross the river to El Paso
to-morrow morning.
GASOLENE COST TO DROP.
Federal Inquiry Almost Don
ir. S. Geta Itedoctlon.
WAStttNOTON, July 5. Final report of
the Federal Trade Commission on its In
vestigation Into the oil situation In tho
United States probably will be completed
within tw-o weeks. Commissioner Harris
said to-day. He predicted a reduction in
the nrlco of gasolene.
The investigation is credited among
Government officials with n large saving
to the United Htates on motor ruel oil.
Three months ago the Standard Oil Com
pany offered oil at 31 Va cents a gallon,
but the bid was rejected. A contract
has Just been closed at 23 & cents a
gallon.
WEST INDIAN GALE ON WAY.
Storm WnrnlnsT Issued From
Panama to Florida.
The first West India twister of the sea
son, reported on Sunday east of Yucatan,
began whirling In toward tho middle
Oulf coast yesterday and Inspired tho
Weather Bureau cyclonic experts to hoist
southeast storm warnings from Panama
eltv to Carralielle, Fla, Iist night the
awlrler was flirting Its rainy skirts over
the Ixiulsiana coast, and to-day it may bo
known whether It Is of a formidable
brand. It Is toi far away to affect this
neighborhood for several days, even
should It head Anally In this direction.
Hereabout to-day the skies should be
fair If the prophets have hit It right, and
to-morrow should lie eomewhat warmer,
Tito Cities Cat Off by Storm.
Naw Ont-KANH, July B. Mobile nnd
Pensacola, rut off from communication
early to-day by the tropical hurricane,
Imri not been heard from lit midnight to
night, The lust report from Pensacola
said tho wind was blowing eighty miles
an hour,
Nn Proof of Villa's Death.
1,1, I API,, I i-J., i.iy u.-rMiiii.i in-
i lower. of Villa In El Paso who assured
, ,r. (( HI" ,C ,,,, ll VU,,4V.V,,.C
1 .1-1 . .. I., .1 .. U I .. t .... ,h.l llln
iieirH.ii i"' hi MpmiiRiwiii .in,.
had riled in southern Chihuahua based
their itsNi'itlon on rlrcumutantlal Ctrl-
iIniiiii nnlv. HCfoi'dlnat to u nLUtuineiit to-
MRS. GREEN LEFT
ALL TO CHILDREN
Estate Estimated at $125,
0,00,000 Goes to Her Son
and Daughter.
WILL FILED IX VERMONT
Document Specifies That No
Inventory or Other Ac
counting lie 3Iade.
Hki.i.ows Falls, Vt July P. The will
of Mrs. Hetty Green, long known as the
wealthiest woman In America, leaves the
bulk of her estate to her son. Col. E. II.
ft. Green, and her daughter, Mrs. Mat
thew Astor Wllks. The rest Is dis
tributed In smaller bequests tu old
friends of Mrs. Green. So far as known
there are no charitable bequests.
No estimate of the total value of the
estate Is contained In tho will, and the
closing clause provides that the son and
daughter shall not be required to file an
Inventory or appraisement or give bonds
and "shall not be required to account
In or to be subject to the Jurisdiction of
the Probate Court." It Is said, however,
that the estute will amount to approxi
mately 1123,000,000.
The will, a document of nine type
written pages with sixteen Items, was
filed by Col. Green and Charles W. Pier
son, an attorney of New York, In the
ofllce of Probate Judge Warner A.
Graham after the funeral of Mrs. Green
here to-day. Judge Graham set July 21
as the date of tho hearing. The Instru
ment Is dated March 28, 1911. It was
witnessed by Hoffman Miller of Tuxedo,
N. Y and James Smith and Mrs. Fay
Smith, both of Hoboken. N. J.
Several "Token of Esteem."
After directing that all expenses In
curred through Mrs. Green's illness and
funeral shall bo paid promptly, the fol
lowing "tokens of esteem" are bequeathed
Mrs. Herbert P. Bancroft, formerly of
Bellows Falls, now of New York, a friend
of Mrs. Green, $5,000 ; Amory A. Law
rence of Boston, formerly trustee of the
estate of Sylvia Ann Howiand. aunt of
Mrs. Green, $10,000; Iluth Lawrence of
61 Washington place, New York, and
Matthew Am Lor WUka. .husband of. Mrs.
Green's daughter, 15,000 as "an ap
preciation of having made an ante
nuptial relinquishment of any claim on
his wife's property."
The will disposes of the estate of Mrs.
Green's husband as directed In his will.
This property goes to the son and daugh
ter with the provision that It Is given "to
the exclusion of any Interest therein or
control thereof by any wife or husband
whom he or she has or may wed."
AH Jewelry, household furniture.
portraits, paintings and other personal
effects of Mrs. Green are to be divided
equally between son and daughter as
they may agree.
A trust fund Is then provided for the
daughter, and the son la directed to nerve
as trustee without pay In order that the
daughter may have the benefit of hla
experience.
The will provides that Fpeclned bonds
and mortgages totalling 16,074,400 shall
be held In trust by the son and daughter
for ten years, the Income going to the
daughter every three months nnd the
principal to revert to her at the termina
tion of the trust.
In Trnst for Tea Years.
The residue of the estate Is left to the
eon and daughter "In trust for ten
years." No stipulation appears in the
will an to the disposition of the estate
after the trust expiree.
Col. Green and Mrs. wllks are
named an Joint executors. If one falls
to perform the dutlea required, the docu
ment provides that the other shall be
given full power
Immediately after the win was men
the funeral party left on the evening
train for New York.
The Interment was In the family plot
adjoining Immanuel Episcopal Church.
The grave was made beside that of Mrs.
Green's husband. Edward H. Green. A
jilaln granite nCiaft. Inscribed only with
the family name, mama me sKt.
ONLY HALF OF MILITIA READY.
n-at 4A,O00 at Border or en
lloute After 17 Days.
San Antonio, Tex., July fi, Army
headquarters here gave out the state
ment to-night that not half the militia
troops of the United States have arrived
at th border or even mane a start,
though seventeen days have passed since
the call wan sent out. It was construed
as Indicating that many of the States
were far from a condition of prepared
ness. The blame Is not being laid on the
railroads.
The strength of the mllltla nas peen
estimated at from 85,000 to 110,000, The
real strength Is not knownA At the
Southern Department headquarters the
figure is referred to (sometimes for con
venience as 120,000.
Of this number Just about 45,000 are
believed to hnve reached Gen. Funston's
department or to be en route.
HARVARD MEN TO BE FLIERS.
Ten Will Take Rammer Coarse at
the Cartlae School.
rturrat.o, N. Y., July S, Ten Har
vard students are expected In Iluffalo
the first of next week to begin a course
In aviation at the Curtlss school. The
students will have a camp for the re
mainder of the summer on the school
grounds on Niagara Falls Boulevard.
To qualify as -expert military fliers the
students must supplement the course by
a study of military tactlca, rules and
etiquette.
SHACKLETON TO TRY AGAIN.
Hearties Town Where I'rngaay lias
Pitted Ont Esprdltlon.
Punta Aiiknas, Chile, July 4. Sir
Ernest Shacklcton, the Antarctic ex
plorer, arrived here to-day.
Punta Arenas, the most southerly town
In the world, situated on the Strait of
Magellan, Is the port where the Uru
guayan Government nas nttea out an
other relief expedition to rescue tha
main body of I.leut, nhackleton a Ant
arctic party left on Elephant Island.
U. S. BOND ISSUE OF
$125,000,000 LIKELY
House Committee Favors This
Method of Paying for
Troop Movements.
DEFICIT NOW 9200,000,000
New Revenue Law to Make It
Up Republicans Vote
for Plan.
Wasiiinotos-, July G. The report on
Hi" omnibus taxation bill filed with the
House to-day by Ilcprcscntatlve Kltchln,
the Democratic leader, foreshadows a
bond Issue of $12S,000,ono to supplement
the revenue to be derived from the pro
posed law.
It Is estimated by the Democrats that
the excess of expenditures over receipts
In the new fiscal year will amount to I
more than 1266,322.000. This sum will,""1" "... "." '"WWing an outside
I... . i -1 1 1. ... I n ...... I... ,kA na.. m.-... I,a I
nt-h.,1 l nrt ,v .h. revenue
.u. . i. . ...c ..t.
law and by requisitions on the general
... ...t ... W . ....,'
forth that abaut 170.000.000 must eome
from current funds to take up the slack !
between outgo and Income. ,
These figures do not take Into con
slderation expenditures made and to be
made on account of the troop move
ments toward the border. The expenses
of this undertaking will be borne by the
sale of bonds, a step that in Justified by
the Democrats on the ground that an
extraordinary situation confronts the
Government.
The report states that the revenue bill
will bring In taxes from the following
sources :
Additional from Income tax, 1107,000,
000. Inheritances, 117,000.000.
Munitions taxes, 171,000.000.
Miscellaneous, f 2,000,000.
Halance from Treasury fund, l?,000,
000. Total, KG6.92:,000.
Legacy Tax Provided for.
It Is estimated that after the year
1917 the tax on Inheritances, which Is
described as an "estate tax." will yield
about IStjUOOoO In every twelvemonth,
period. For the current year only
117,000,000 Is expected from this source.
It Is explained that the Initial yield will
be small owing to an expected delay In
putting this now law Into operation.
The hope of the Democrats that they
would have Republican support for the
revenue bill was reillied to-day when
the Wnin and Means Committee voted
on the measure. Two Republicans, Card-1
ner. Massachusetts, and I.ongworth, Ohio, dven to-night to Gen. George Hell, corn
voted for It. They Justified their position ' mandlng the Amerlcin border patrol nt
on the ground that the features of the m point, to the effeet that a hundred
bill relating to taxation were warranted """"me guns had been unloaded nt
on account of the unusual conditions con- 1 , r'1 tr,,r u" 'he C.irr.iui.i Government,
fronting the Government, and contended "an fhipp-d In by way of Cuba
that the proposal to crente a tariff com- '" Kin, according to the Infurm.i
mlssion and the provision levying cim-1'""1 Riven to Gen. Itell. were purchased
turn. duties on ilyestuffs were good old."'' German Government several
fashioned Itepiibllcan doctrine. ,111011111 ago and stored In New York, but
It Is estimated by the report that nlu,tI no.t 1,0 ?hl,I,1' Therefore they
Government expenditures for this nseal ' v,'eTO "'ther sold or given to the Car
year will approximate $l.H79,ono,000. ni?." (""'erninent by the Germans, It is
This total." the report says. "In-
dudes 112.1.000,000 to meet the extraor
dinary expense or disbursements occa
sioned by the Mexican situation, caus
ing the mobllltatlon of the National
Guard and the operation of our troops
along the border and in Mexico. In lbs
opinion of your committee this and any
other appropriations that may lw neces
sary to meet the abnormal nnd extraor
dinary expenditure which may be In
curred on suQh account should be financed
hy bond Issues, as la always by this
and all other nation under similar cir
cumstances." Committee Explains eloii.
The report points out that In framing
a new tax law the committee decided
to make the levy largely against In-
cornea, inheritances and munitions, on the
theory that those concerned were best
able to bear this additional burden. The
report sain In part:
"Ureal liritnin, oerore tne .European
war. during her fiscal year ending
March 31, 1914, collected from Income
taxes $230.(100,000 and from 'death
duties' or Inheritance taxes $132,000,000.
Great Itrltaln's total revenue was 62ft,
000,000 and of this amount taxea upon
incomes and inheritances yielded 1362,
000,000, or S8 per cent, of the total In
other words. Great Hrltaln in time of
peace, collected RS per cent, of her rev
enue from the taxation or income ami
Inheritances. With less than one-half
the population nnd wealth of the United
States the revenues from Income and
Inheritances, including 'death duties,' In
Great Ilrltaln were more than four times
the revenues derived from these sources
by tha United States."
DOG HAS INFANTILE PARALYSIS.
Fonrlh to Contract Disease Since
Epidemic flesian.
A poodle dog owned by Lieutenant
William Gllhoolcy of the East 104th
street police, station was sent yesterday
to the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, suffering from In
fantile paralysis.
On Sunday Gllhooley went out walk
ing with the poodle and two hours nfter
ho returned to his home at 477 West
143d street the dog began to rough. On
the following day Its glands started to
swell and on Tuesday Its legs were so
stiff Gllhooley railed In Dr. George
llretherton. a veterinary surgeon, of 2SI
West 126th street. Thu veterinarian
said the dog is the fourth afflicted with
the disease to come under his notice
since the recent epidemic. The dog will
be killed.
LONE BANDIT IN YOSEHTTE.
nobs Faar Stage, Gets tOO and
Jewelry and Escapes.
Yobkmitk Valley. Col., July 5. A
bandit, slngli handed, held up four stages
to-day at Waw-ona, Just outside of the
Yosemlte Valley National Park, and
from twenty-eight persons collected ftOO
and Jewelry,
Among tha victims was S. Schulti, nf
Pittsburg.
(IMC AT HKAR srRINO WATRM.
Ite. th cut of tlx glatt slopptrtd bottles,
Aiv. ,
PRESS
First Militia Going
Across Border Soon
fJOLUMBUS, N. M July 5.
Ports of the Massachusetts
nnd New Mexico Nutionnl Guard
organizations mobilized here will
be sent into Mexico within the
next few days to assist in guard
ing Gen. Pershing's line of com
munication. This was announced (illicit. Uy
nt military headquarters here late
to-day.
SOURCE OF MORGAN
LEAK IS REVEALED
Four Men Who St.ujrlit Wari. !,""',"?: The , r"m"'; ''
- "i IhIIh of I.loyd George's scheme for pro-
Contracts Tell a Xtlllie to visional home rule lor Ireland are puh-
... . t. . ... lushed In the morning papers. The fol-
IMStl'iet Attorney. l0WllB fire thP principal features:
Flint An Irish House of Common
. I will be constituted by the transfer to tin
I he lileJil tfy of the euiiilovec of .1. P. !,,,,. ,, . , . ...
.Morgan .V Co. who has been ac s.'d ,rMl '"rllaimnt of s.-venty-elght mem-
vaguely In Wall street rumors, In court
proceedings and In news leports n the!
" " vance intunnatlon regardlitg ,
V
munition
contracts, was made known
y.rterday afternoon to District Attorney,
Sumin
!...!':r. nien-O. H. 1'hllllps. William '
inns, Jr., .Morton Sultxer and (lascherle '
pewltl went to the District Attorneys
otllce upon the ndvlco of their lawj'er.
. I William H. Itotllstim. nnd told Mr. Sw.inn
William H. Itoulstmi. and told .Mr. Sw.itm
through their upokesman, Mr. Phillips,
that testimony given l.v them at the ,
hearing before Chief Mallmrate McAdoo I
lat week was In some respects untrue.
Phillips said that when testifying last
week he had been shielding Carlos E.
Moore, president of the Export and Im
port Corporation of 120 llroadwav.
Phillips told the District Attorney, eo it
was Kild at Mr. Swann's ollUe trr
that ho and Hills. Sultzer und Dealt!
Fought contracts for war material after
they had talked with Moore, who, said
Phillips, was In touch with a 'Vinrill-in
angel" In tho Morgan fin" . I'hHIIps Iw'S
his partners never knew and never even
saw this "angel." herald. Phillips and
the other three had n desk In the olllces
of Seymour & Seymour.
The reason that Phllllns and the other
came forward yesterday to change their
testimony was, they said, becane they
had been released from a promise to
Moore to "kewp his name out of the
transaction. The name of the Morgan
employee responsible for the war con
tract leaks Is now knoan to the Dls;rlct
Attorney, but for reasons best known to
Mr. Swann, the name is being withheld.
MACHINE GUNS TO MEXICO.
.Shipment llrnt'lies Vera Crusi Were
Intended for riermnny.
El. Paso. July 5. Infarnutlnn ..-n
SOLDIER ESCAPES ALIMONY.
Conrt llules Income Is Vol Snf
flrlriit to Pay.
, national guardsman who ha been
mustered into the Federal service has In
sutflclent Income to permit the payment
of alimony, according to a decision by
Supreme Court Justice Whltaker lu the
suit of Mrs. Nance Oppel against Eu-
gene Irving Oppel of the Seventy-first
Iteglmeiit.
"The defendant's Income at present I
no more than sutllclent for himself," said
the court, "hut It permits Mrs. uppel to
renew her application when her bus
band's Income has Increased."
CANADIANS TO KEEP KILTS.
Grn.
Ilnghe Itrsrlmla Order
Xlnillalilim I'se by Troop.
Ottawa. July 5 Gen. S.im HiikIics,
Milliliter of Mllltla, announced to-day
that the order Issued two weeks ago
abolishing tho kilt as a putt of tho uni
form of the Canadian Scottish regiments
Had lieen preluded
TIlA (Jf.nlll.li Ipiiiu li.i.'a f,,...l ...
be lew subject t pnAImonla nml' inng
trouble than other troops. n fact whu.li
Is attributed to the kilt.
AGUILAR SEES SETTLEMENT.
Mcxlcnn .Minister nf Foreign Ite
liitlnns (IpllnilKlle.
Mkxicii City, July 5. Gen. Agullar.
Minister of Foreign Itclatlons, gave nut
11 statement to the press to-d.iy, In which
bo expressed tho greatest optimism a
to the result of the Interchange of views
on the International situation now be.
lug conducted between the cliancillcrles
of Washington and this city
Gen. Agullar said that the Mtuatlon
had Improved most notably In the last
few days and that lie hoped the pend
ing differences would ho arianged lu
a satisfactory manner In a verv short
time.
BR0UGHT0N STOCKS $20,000,000.
Holds l.nrurat Amount of 17. S. Se.
curltlrit In Enulnnil.
Despatches from London reporting
tnat Urban II. Proughton has announced
In the Housn of Commons, of which h
Is a member for Preston, thnt ho has
transferred to the llritlsh Government
the largest amount of American securi
ties of any private Individual were re
ceived with Interest In the llnanclul dis
trict yesterday, Attention was drawn
to the fact that under tho will of II. II.
Holers, who was Mr. Ilmughlon's
fathcriln-lnw, Mrs. Cora L Hrotighton,
his wife, received one-third nf an es
tate appraised in 1914 at mote than H0,
OOO.ono. Since then, It was said, the stock and
bond holdings of the heirs of II, II,
lingers have Increased In value, and one
conservative estimate nf the amount of
securities transferred to the Drltlsh
Government by Mr. nroughtun was fiom
111,000,000 to 120,000,000,
IRISH SETTLEMENT
I
PLAN MADE PUBLIC
Provides for Transfer of 711'
Members of Parliament to
Dublin Commons.
SIT 1
two rxroxisTs to
Acceptance of Ciiison mid
Campbell Hives Hope
of Amity.
,"', ''' sitting In the lloue of Com-
moils for the twent -six home rule loun
,1,,,
The total Irish repreeentatian in the .
"''Use 'f Common Is 103. of which
twenty-live members st for the six,
'"er..nI,.r." I'"v",'""' excluded
"
Second Of the seventy-eight inembei
'"' transferred to the Irish Hou-v.
seveni-six arc .auoiiaiisi or nun
seveni-six arc .miuoiiiuisi
Pendents, while two are
""""cly. Sir Kdwaril arson am:
''"ipbcll. Attorsey-Gener.il foi
1,111'UIIMS,
1 .1. II. M.
for Ireland.
These two members represent Trlni'y
College, Dublin. They have both coin
rented to sit In the home rule Pari la-
tneiit and on this fact some hopes are
based for future amity.
1 bird Members of the
lrlh
mons will retain their seats In the Elm-
i,:th 1,ous" !,n'1 wl" ofle" rten ,norv-
I t,le Irish body Is not expected to have
'"Vf" busli .-ss to transact at first.
1'ourth Considerable representation
I the Unionist Interest In the south
1,1111 ,vost of Ireland will be provided
through the nomination of their repte-
' sentatlves to the Irish Senate. It Is
'proposed that the Senate sit and net
with the Irish Commons during the
temporary settlement, thus safeguard-
lug the Interosts of the Unionists.
Fifth The temporary settlement Is
to continue until one year after the
review of the great Imperial conference,
which is to ho held to adjust the gov
ernment or mi. empire. l-eiMirleil liv Hie lliUMi nml I'renell
Sixth The framewoik of Iri-fli finance " lM,r,c" " ""- 11111 "
In the home rule act will riot be altered, hll reached about lti.tMHI, while tin'
but some liicreasta will he made In the (iorninil casualties have been nnuf-
Seventh new lird Lieutenant will, 'ompurative qnlel fur the time l'
shoitly bo appointed as a preliminary to w lms settled over Verdun, allhiiUgll
'''oriUat'rtSr'wil, .-.bnrdmen. cntltiue. The
no necessary when the announcement I Germans have opened a new attack
111.de to-monw or Satuiday nf l.lod , ,11 the rreni'h lines near the I.nri'alne
Georges promotion to the War Oltlce. ,, , .
Edwin .Montagu. Klna11cl.il Secretary of , frontier, some mile In the east nf
the Treasury, Is expected to succeed I.tincv llle. Thev delivered stroll;; us)
l.lni !,s Minister of Munitions. , saults nculnt the French trenches In
HORSE FOUND WITH RABIES.
.Mrni'kx llrmpstrnil Man nn llr
inp to Fondle II.
llr.MPSTK.vn. I.. I July r. I.oul Small
lug, R5 xe.ira old, a motormaii for the
1 Long lFlntid Traction Company, on his
way home to-night saw a stray horse
approaching from the yard of a house.
He raised his hand to pet the horse,
wnen 11 snappeii u 1 mm.
Smalllng tried to escape, but the mil
",al caught tho middle ringer of bis left
! band and almost bit It off. then reared
1 "'' f"-11 "" hlm' Tnc ,u,r," Kot l,s
t,vl r',n ,lown 1'riiiikltn street.
sen nmlng and neighing, to a creek.
Wilt' It? 11 Bll'GU IH llit' W tilt I 1(11 IU I II
haunches, snapping at whoever came
near. Finally It was lassoed and dragged
""I Field, a veterinarian.
shot the animal, which was becoming
partly paralyzed, and nfter examining
Its lilooii sain it nnu nan rames Moan
ing will bo Inoculated.
TO SCRAP MUNITIONS PLANT.
XWtlnhoiir Co. Will title I p Itlg
Enterprise.
I'lTTslicito, Pa,. July fi - After com
pleting an order for 1,250,0110 IS pound
shrapnel shells for the llritlsh Govern-
itiniil In 1ea fh.-iii llftepii months from the
I .. .1 1 , m... -
I !r,Ur
I the Wcstlnghmiso Airbrake Company an -
noUnced to-day that preparations are
under way to dismantle Its "'unltion
making plant, sell the expensive mu-
ohlnery and let out nearly i'.aou men
and girls who have been employed In
th.it work.
A. L. Humphrey, vice-president and
general manager. In speaking of tha
company's future as munition makers
said to-day '
"The bullng we will dismantle, be
cause I do not think wo shnll need them
in addition to our regular shops. The
machinery we shall dlsjose of at the
best price we cm get and the men, ex
cept those who are old employees of
our, of conrso we must lot go. In fact
many of them are now leaving each
day."
CELEBRATOR KILLS WOMAN.
Shot Throngh the Heart When at
Fireworks Display,
nitipur.poivr, Conn., July B. Mrs. '
Marv Summer, of Newark was shot to
death during a fireworks Clsplay here
last night. She wai In a crowd and
when some one discharged a revolver
near hrr acreamcd and felt dead, Tho
acting medical examiner gave a ver
dict of death due to heart disease. In
duced by the sudden fright.
To-day while Win undertaker na pre
paring the body for burial he dlscov- According to aerial nberv:itor w
ered a wound In the breast, and in- t, French front in the direction of I'e
vestlgatlon disclosed Iho presence of a ronne thern are now only three. m,
bullet In the heart Mis Summer was j t pencil system. hctw;eeM Uih I'mnoa nnd
GO yearn old. i the open country If break were.
No trace of tlm peimn who fired till
revolver has ben found,
Gov. Mel nll to Han Again.
HosTON, July r,. Gov MrCall' c.in
dlrtacy for a second term was Indi
cated tn-d.iy, when paper for hi re
nomination on the Hcpubllruu ticket
were taken out,
FRENCH SMASH
SECOND LINES
ON THE SOMME
Occupy (ioi'Iimii Positions
on Front of More Than
Six Miles.
iiirssiAXs wix im
! VICTOR V IX (t ALICIA
Get Astride Jinilrouri mi
Which Teuton Defence
of Capital Hosts.
CZAII'S FOJICKS A K I!
IIOt'TKD IX PKLIS1A.
Are Forced to Kvncuate
Kciiiiansliali. Which the
Turks Now Hold.
The entlrp second position of the
f ;,.,, ,,, ( m Son)m. over
nn oxtrnt of iipproxIniHtely nix mile
I'ipiicIi, wlm tiNii llvi ruptured the
xIIIiikc nf Ilcni. none the northern
ex t rem i l.v nf their line, nnd have com-
,,,,,,,, tl.ir niitl(t of I'M fee,
1 ....
I'lie IlrltNh line hit" iippnriMitly
fnlleil tu advance, except ".slightly In
,., ., M.c.s ,, KrltMl Wtir
. c . " ' J. , , ,
tltllce illl It. Ndllf if tilt' ground
Knlned l.v the IlrllMi hits been lnt,
however. Illltl the further statement
of the HrllNh tllllt the HclDlnC till
..i,,..,. i,,,. front vvus innsllv In
" ' '
the iintiire nf local .stfllules fur tile
mis,.hii nf strong points would
, IndlrntP that each side Is
, ,
devoting iarlletllltr intention to (he
organization (if lis positions nnd the
iitlnek or defence..
The ntiiiiber nf Geniiitn iiiNuiiern
till sector and entered litem at threo
points, only to be driven mil shortly
afterward.
A success nf the tit -I iiiiiiii linice
Is reported by Hie Kiisslaiis, wlm sny
they have cut the i-ailr.mil riiuuliiA
from l.embei-K, the capital nf tialiclu.
to Delatyn. This Is the main line of
,.mmiinlcatlon fur tin
ilsirn-tie.
man force defendiii l.i'iiiberu'. .U
Ued military critics have liislMoil thill
I . , ((f s PH,rom,
. . ., . , ., . ,
eolllel thu Central Powers forces t
f mi.; ,m K w,,, f,.,mti ,..ivnft
. . , . , . , .
lumbers III Imminent peril.
The views expressed lu llerllll rr
Anlo.tV...'l. '"T""-
relleet confidence Hint Hie lenuatl
ne will hold and Hint the Germans
will retain control of the lerrliory
now- occupied In France and llelgiitm.
The successes so far attained by the
Trench nml ISrltMi are looked upon
as nf minor Importance.
Constantinople offlclnll.v tcnirts
that the Itussliius hnve been driven
out of Kermniisliab, in western
1lI,i
while the Itussluu assort
1,,,Vl' ,'r"kP" ",0 T,,rliK" ,ln
1 east of Illlllitllt,
1
; mc-cne
(iftn,lil. LUciblUCi A
SOMME FIGHT (10,000
British Proiirrss Is Slnir n Ten
Ion Are Iteenforced.
I.ONPOK, July r. The French con
tinue to make more progres thnn the
Hrltish on tne western f'ont, owing
juiitly to the ir.oro dltlliult ground fac
ing the Itrltl.ih nnd also to the fact
that stronger foive are npimslng them
because of the belief among the Ger
mans that the main attack in the pre,
ent operations will bu on the llritlsh
front, llut despite their slower progresi
the Hrltish are successfully beating back
heavy Gerrnsn counter attacks, which
have been delivered day and night in th
regions of La Ilolsselle and Thlepvnl
and generally between tin, Ancm ,ir,d the
Somme,
It is estimated that the (Jeriuan lofei
" the battle of the Somme thu fa
r.0,000, The capture of gun Cms lieen
comparatively small, liecaune tlm Ger
man". In anticipation of the offensive
withdrew their heavy artillery to longer
ranges before the battle began
Send Troops From Verdun.
mnde In the German lines hero It woulif
lie extremely terlous for the German.
who are doubtleos bin i lug up rern
forcement to the threitened point. The
Germans are sending reenforrenienta to
the b.ittlellel.l from as far as Verdun
and I.en-, mid f I thomiht that ttie
continued liesv German Httnekt n th
Mcue iuj po iulcuJrd U conCtM,
