Want $40? TE HERALD HAS
It's possible for you to get it puzl cN
lead the cash ar s o of o $
from $3 to $40 each to Herald of__________E III~ 7~ iU VAAIO OEY O Y
readers. VACATM NOE FOR Y(N.
NO. 3548. WEATHER-AIL. WASHINGTON. D. C.. THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1916. ONE CENT.
CLOUDS OF WAR
FADE TO MIST
AS NOTE COMES
Lansing Reads Carranzas Re
ply, Then Prepares to
Go Fishing.
TROOPS TO QUIT MEXICO
Small Probability, However,
of Abandonment of Mobili
zation on Border.
CARRIZAL STILL UNEXPLAINED
De Facto Chief Silent on Ambush, but
State Department Is Expected
to Yield Point.
The immediate danger of the Mexican
crisis was eliminated yesterday by the
receipt of Carranza's friendly and con
ciliatory note, which promises co-opera
tion against border raids and paves the
way for the settlement of the entire con
troversy by diplomatic means. Carranza,
in effect. withdraws al threats against
the American expeditionary force in
Mexico. with the tacit understanding that
the withdrawal of American troops north
ward will be part of the joint plan of
the two governments for reaching an un
derstanding. There was every indication
last night that President W'lson will
agree to this. though the attitude of the
American government has not yet been
formally announced
Secretary of State Lansing. after read
in; the note. strongly Intimated that the
crisis has passed. He said he intended
to leave Friday for a month's vacation
at Watertown, N. Y, where he will de
vote mor time. to fishing than to diplo
matic problems. President Wilson Is un
derstood to be ready to join Carransa ir
friendly efforts to settle all differences.
Two Plans Suggested.
111 Two plans of procedure are suggested
by Carranza. They include mediation by
the Latin-American countries, or direct
negotiation between the American State
Department and the Mexican foreign of.
fice.
Secretary lansing declined to forecasi
which procedure appeared the most likely
e but it was explained that there is no par
ticular reason why the two governments
could not resume the negotiations which
were begun by the Scott-Obregon confer
ences on the border, but broken off be
cause of the Inability to agree on the
basic question of the withdrawal of the
American troops.
This question now, it is explained
promises to be eliminated, chiefly because
Gen. Pershing has already begun to move
his forces toward the border.
The State Department still declines tc
say whether this withdrawal was in re.
sponse to orders from President Wilson
0r whether It was entirely dictated by
.'n. Pershing's strategy. At the Mexican
Embassy it Is said that the reasons for
f withdrawal are no concern of the
Mexican government's. but that the faci
of the troops withdrawal has proved the
.. if means of averting the threatened
breach.
carranza's suggestion for a plan oi
r antonmoents" along the bound-ry line
which is revived in the note, was thresh.
ed out at the Scott-Obregon conference
it is explained. and considered practical
by representatives of both governments
It would mean. in effect, the establish
ment of American and Mexican military
camps along the border or in a zone con
tiguous to the border having as a com
mon object the prevention of the forma
tion of bandit bands and the dispersing
of any raiders who might threaten the
American side of the line.
It is not regarded as likely that the
lessening of the tension in the Mexican
crisis will have any effect on the mobi
lization of the National Guard. Officials
say that even with the best efforts of the
Carranza government it will be months
before conditions in northern Mexico are
anywhere near normal.
Carranza's note does not make any
epecific explanation of the orders given
to Gen. Trevino which were responsible
for the Carrizal clash and an explana.
tion of which was demanded by Secretary
Lancing. It is not believed that Secretary
Lansing will press this point.
AND NOW "FANCY WORK"
IS MADE GRAFT GAME
By the SUM News Service.)
Detroit, Mich., July 5.-A new form o1
confldence game was revealed to the po.
lice today by Mrs. Della Steele.
Mrs. Steele said that several weeks
ago she answered an advertisement ask
ing for women to do fancy work at home.
The woman in charge required a deposli
of $5 before letting Out the material tc
be made up. When she returned witt
her work, her "employer" had vanished
T. . Hires Recruiting Agent.
Nw York, July 5.-Col. Theodore
Roosevelt's proposed military division
which, It is understood, he would like to
lead into Mexico, now has a recruitin
-agent who will receive and pass upon
the great number of appliations for
membership in that body. The agent Is
Regis H. Poet. former governor of Porto
Ria
KOE SIPING EZPORTD.
Righth Cavalry Said to Have Bees
Fired Om.
El Paso, Texas, July 1.-Gen. George
Bell. fr.. in command of the Fort Bliss
district, today sent officers to Yaleta to
investigate reports that Mexican snipers
had fired on Eighth Cavalry troops on
this side. According to the first official
report, the Americans were near thb bor
der cutting brush when the Mexicans
opened fire.
The Americans took to cover as the
Mausers popped at them, but did not re
turn the fire. On top of this report
came stories all along the border that
snipers were making targets of all
trains that passed within range.
HUGHES MAPS
PARTY UNITY
Seven Leading Progressives to
Get Berths on Campaign
Committee.
(PLAN RENDERS "OLD GUARD"
PRACTICALLY HELPLESS
New York, July .-Final touches to the
harmony program in Republican ranks
will be given in the selection of seven
prominent Progressives to serve on the
campaign committee. Mr. Hughes today
formally gave his approval to this plan.
The plan Is to add to the "steering"
committee of seven, headed by former
Senator W. Murray Crane, three strong
Hughes men. Seven representative Pro
gressives then will be named to act with
these ten.
There was every indication at Hughes
headquarters today that Mr. Hughes him
self will name the majority of the com
mittee. By the scheme devised, the Old
guard members of the steering commit
tee will not be ignored, but will be ren
dered helpless.
Progressives who are mentioned as
likely members of the campaign com
mittee include George W. Perkins. Ever
ett Colby, James R. Garfield. Herbert
Knox, and William White.
National Chairman William Willcox and
Mr. Hughes had several long conferences
today at which plans for the campaign
were discussed. Mr. Willcox has approved
a coast-to-coast tour beginning early in
August and as soon as the notification
exercises are over, Mr. Hughes will begin
the preparation of the ten or a dozen
addresses. It is now planned to hold the
notification ceremonies the last week of
this month.
REFUGEES HIT
AT PRESIDENT
Characterize His "Vacillating
Policy Toward Mexico"
as a Crime.
RESCUE SHIP UNDERMANNED,
DIRTY, AND LACKING SUPPLIES
ifBy the Sun News Service.)
Chicago. July 5.-How American ref
ugees from Tampico shoveled coal,
cleaned pots and pans and did other
menial * sks aboard the United States
steamship Dixie, because the ship was
Inadequately manned, was told today by
Frank S. Engle, of Chicago, secretary of
the Frisco Salvador Ranching properties.
1 who was the first of the refugees to ar
rive. Mr. Engle declared the ship car
ried .10 refugees out of Tampico with a
crew of only 160 men, when 400 was the
number required.
Mr. Engle said that when the Dixie
landed it unloaded 750 bitter critics of
the administration's policy toward Mex
ico.
"How the Dixie could have been so
badly prepared is beyond all imagina
tion," he said. "The decks were never
scrubbed while we were on it. There
were no blankets, and most of us slept
in the open on the deck. A man with
two little girls and two little boys was
given some blankets by the sailors, who
went without. The ship was so short
handed that we all had to turn in and
work. Some of us shoveled coal.
"Mexico is important, and the people
will not stand back of Carranza. If they
could express their real opinion at the
polls without getting shot for it, they
would overturn the de facto government.
"Although we are Americans we look
to the British to protect our interests.
The American government's vacillating
policy toward Mexico is more than a
joke, in our eyes. It is a crime."
Won't Abandon Camp.
Columbus. Ohio. July 5.-Ohio's muobi
lization camp will be maintained as long
as the militia is in Federal service, it
was announced today. There are 10.900 in
camp. The first Ohio men will leave for
the border Saturday.
Killed on First Ride in Auto.
FPort Huron, Mich., July 5-Tames
Bourke and his son, Arnold. were
instantly killed today when the auto
mobile they had just bought was struck
by a Pore Marquette passenger train.
Hold I. W. W. Leaders for Murder.
Virginia, Minn., July !i.-W. D. Scarl~t,
an L. W. W. leader. e 'd another 'leader
named Schmidt. were today arrested
charged with murder. It is understood
that the charges have to do with the
killing of two persons at Biwabik, where
astike of mine workers is in progress
Villa and Band
Pursuing Car
And Cut'
Government Troops Sent to (
of Chihuahua City, and (
mander, Killed in Slat
(By the International New, Serice.)
El Paso, Texas, July 5.-As evidence
that they are keeping their promise with
the United States to run down Mexican
bandits, Carransistas today reported to
the border an engagement south of Chi
huahua City near Jimines, on the Corral
ranch, in which one of their best com
mands was badly cut to pieces in fighting
a band of Villistas.
It was not stated in the dispatches who
commanded the bandits, but the belief
here is it was Pancho Villa. He has been
reported in the vicinity of Jimines for
some time.
The dispatches came from Gen. Jacinto
Trevino at Chihuahua City to Carransa
officials on the border, and said that
Gen. Francisco Ramos, the Carranza
commander, was killed, and many of his
command slaughtered by the Villistas.
House Report F
Bond Issue of
Fiscal Deficil
The report on the omnibus taxation bill
filed with the House yesterday by Repre
sentative Kitchin, of North Carolina.
the Democratic leader, foreshadows a
bond issue of $12,000.000 to supplant the
revenues to be derived from the proposed
law.
It is estimated by the Democrats that
the excess of expenditures over receipts
in the new fiscal year will amount to
more than $166.9::.00. This sum will be
furnished in part by the new revenue
law and by requisitions on the general
fund of the Treasury. The report sets
forth that about $70.0000 must be taken
from current funds to take up the slack
between outgo and income.
These figures do not take into consld
*ration expenditures made and to he
made on sccount of the troop movements
toward the border. The expenses of this
venture will be borne by the sale of
bonds,. a step that is Justitied by the
Democrats on the ground that an ex
traordinary situation confronts the gov
ernment.
Trumpeters, 12
Offer to E
Two trumpeters, one 70 and the other
12, yesterday showed the Pennsylvania
Avenue recruiting station that they were
ready for real service, but their ages
were against them and they both were
turned away.
Michael M. IT. Lynch. who did not give
his residence, said he had served in the
civil war and proved to the officers he
was above the average as a trumpet per
former.
Edward Smith, of '706 E street south
east, also came to the station with his
trumpet and he, too, played like a "reg
ular." Edward said his father is a civil
war drum corps veteran.
Though possessed with unusual musical
talent, both applicants were turned away,
one never to see service again, the other
waiting until a few more years pass by.
Elle Sheetz again carried the martial
musicians about town in his machine to
create more preparedness spirit.
U. S. GUNBOAT FIRED ON
BY MEXICO, IS REPORT
(By the Sun News Service.)
San Diego, Cal., July 5,-Laden with
American refugees from the West coast
of Mexico. and chased out of Mazatlan
harbor by a Mexican warship, the U. S.
gunboat Annapolis arrived here today.
The commander of the Annapolis did not
reply to the Mexican fire, according to
the stories told by the refugees.
The story was also told of how Ameri
can troops rescued the steamship Sonora
in the dead of night, in Guaymas harbor.
Bluejacktts from the U. S. cruiser Cleve
land threw the Carranzista watchman
overboard, cut the anchor ioose and tow
ed the, steamship out into the bay.
TEUTONS LOSE 500,000 IN MONTH.
Russians Reported to Have Taken
232,300 Unwounded Prisoners.
Paris. July 5.-German and Austro
Hungarian iosses of the past month total
half a million men, according to figures
presented today by the Matin. It states
that the Russians have taken 222,300
unwounded prisoners, the Italians 4.700
and the Anglo-French forces 14,200.
Multplying the total of prisoners by two
to estimate the number of killed and
wounded, it gets an aggregate of slightly
more than 500.000, or more than tweive
army corps.
Grey To Be Made Peer.
London. July 5.-S4ir Edward Grey will
shortly be elevated to the peerage, ac
cording to the Chronicle. He will retain
the foreign secetaysh
Turn on
ranza Forces
Them to Pieces
:et Bandit Surrounded South
len. Ramos, Their Com
ghter Which Follows.
General Ramos was sent out from
Jimines with instructions to disperse the
bandits and not to return until he had1
accomplished his task. He ran into a
force said to number "several regiments"
and was surrounded.
The Carransistas intrenched and re-f
pulsed several attacks, but after their
general had been killed the survivors es
caped in the night and returned to Jim-!
ines to report the battle. This is believed
to be the same battle referred to yester
day as in progress "near Corralitos," in
which the Mexicans claimed to be win-:
ning.
Work of exhuming the bodies of the
Tenth cavalrymen killed in battle with
Carranzistas at Carrizal. Chihuahua, two1
weeks ago, was commenced today, and
the funeral train bearing the bodies Is
expected to reach El Paso tomorrow.
'oreshadows
$125,000,060;
:, $266,922,000
The report states that the revenue bill
will bring in taxes from the following
sources: Additional from income tax.
$07.,000.00; inheritances, $17.0,00; Muni-I
Lions tax, 171,00:.t; miscellaneous, 12,
(W.": balance from Treasury fund. $369,
10-.4w0; total, $266.9 220.6M
It is estimated that after the year 1917
the tax on inheritances, which is de
scribed as an "estate tax,' will yleid
about $54,000,000 in every twelvemonth!
period. For the current year only $17.000,
00 is expected from this source.
The hope of the Democrats that they1
would have Republican support for the
revenue bill was realized yesterday when
the Ways and Means Committee voted
on the measure. Two Republicans. Rep
resentatives (ard';,r. or Massachusetts,
and Longworth, of Ohio, voted for it, re
serving the :ight to eriticise some of Its
provisions.
It is estimated by the report that gov
ernment expenditures for this fiscal year
will approximate $l.579.f0.000.
and 70 Years,
Cattle for U. S.
The men sworn in yesterday are: Frank
P. Ross, :1415 Holmead place northwest;
Wallace i. Davidson, 254 Willis avenue.
New York City; Marvin Lohse. Cherry
dale, Va., Charles A. Fuches. 827 Twenty
fifth streut northwest: Michael Kelly.
715 Kenyon stret northwest: Joseph A.
Darnville. Capital Heights. Md; LeRoy
Opey, 413 Flrida avenue northwest; E
gene Parker. 1113 Queen street, Alexan
dria, Va.: Gilbert Jones, 1239 New Jersey
avenue southeast. Clifton Lee, 724 How
ard avenue southeast: John W. Barber
Laytonsville. Iontgomery county. Md.:
Bryan J. Donovan, 1644 Hobart street
northwest: James J. Walker, 1023 Twen
tieth street northwest; Anthony M. Yar
us, Westfield. N. J.: Everett S. Phillip,
S7- Seventh street southwest; Temple
Biggs. 418 Eichth street southwest: Rob
ert Hogue, Ils G street southeast: Louis
Waldman. 49 E street northeast, and
Samuel Stevson. 1332 Harrison avenue,
southeast.
GERMANS SEND MEXICO
100 MACHINE GUNS
(Bar the %on News Service,.)
El Paso, Tex., July 5.-Information was
given tonight to Gen. George Bell, com-!
manding the American border patrol at
this point to the effect that 100 machine
guns had been unloaded at Vera Cruz!
by the Carranza government, having been
shipped in by way of Cuba.
The guns, according to the information
given to Gen. Bell, were purchased by
the German government several months
ago. They could not be shipped to Ger
many and were either sold or given to
the Carranza government by the Ger
mans, it is said.
INIFANTILE PA RALTYSIS SPREADS.
Si Hundred Cases in !%ew York:,
with 25 Per Cent Death Rate.
New York, July 5.-With new districts
of Manhattan invaded by the outbreak
of infarltile paralysis, the health depart
ment announcel today that of the 60 per
sons afflicted with the disease in the
Greater City. 150 have died, the rate of
mortality being 25 per cent.
Ninety-one new cases have been re
ported since yesterday forenoon, a total
of 157 new cases since Monday noon.
Limited Hits Dynamite Train.
Jacksonville. Fla., July 5--Crashing
into a freight train loaded with dyamt
at Durbin, near this city, last nighit the
Overseas Limited passenger tra.in, of the
Florida East Coast Railroad, caused the
destruction of five freight cars and the
engine of the passenger train. No one in
the twelve heavily loaded coaches was
Wifusv injured4
On TUILn IN RIOT.
Strikers Claab at Patta4epata.
Three Wouded. -
Philadelphia. Pa., July 5.-One man was
shot and killed, and three others were
wounded seriously, when colored strike
breakers and white longshoremen who
have been on strike clashed at the Read
Ing Railway piers, 46 South Wharves.
about 7 o'clock tonight. The dead man
was Thomas Kenny. white, a union,
striker.
All of the men in the disturbance were'
longshoremen. The union men, all white.
went to the pier about the time the color
ed strikebreakers were knocking off work
for the day. The delegation of strikers
urged them to stop working. Arguments
ensued and then fighting began.
WILL ATTACK
BORDER POLICY
Republicans in Congress Re
sent Wilson's Plan for With
drawal of U. S. Troops.
ACQUIESCENCE TO CARRANZA
TO BE ROUNDLY DENOUNCED
President Wilson's course in Mexico is
to be subjected to a furious attack by
Republicans in Congress, according to in
dications here yesterday.
A wave of resentment swept the floor
of the House when it became apparent
that the administration s prepared to
accept as satisfactory the Carranza sug
gestion for further negotiations to effect
the withdrawal of American troops from
Mexico and for providing protection for
the American border.
A series of speeches denouncing the
President's policy has been prepared by
Republicans in the lower branch of Con
greys, and only the definite settlement
of the present Mexican Issue is needed to
start the attack. Republican leaders have
determined to withold their attack until
the psychological moment.
This is not the time for Republicans
to ta:k.'' said Republican Leader Mann.
of the HIouse, yesterday.
A rarticularly strong attack on the ad
mimitration has been placed in the hands
of Represcntativ-e William A. Rodenberg
of Illinois, one of the strongest orators on
the Republican Aide of the House. Rep
resentative Rodenherg declared yesterday
h, had in his possession facts hearing on
the situation in Mexico which would
astonish Congress and the country. Rep
resentative lumphreys, of Washington.
likewise declared he was prepared to dis
cuss the Mexican situation.
"It now seems apparent." he stated.
'that we are preparing to withdraw our
troops from Mexico. That is the final
hlunder of a series of blunders whl.'h
have become a tragic chapter in the his
tory of our foreign relations. Evidently
the administration is unable to make up
its mind to any positive American course
of action."
WOULD BLOCK
SHIPPING BILL
Senate Threatens Filibuster.
Democrats Decide to
Push Measure.
TO WORK FOR PASSAGE.
AT PRESENT SESSION
Democratic Senators in a conference
last night practically decided to face a
threatened filibuster on the adninistra
lion shipping hill and put it through ie
fore the adjournment of this session.
Definite action was postponed until to
morrow night, pending probable action
on the hill today by the Commerce Com
mittee. which is expected to report it to
the Senate.
The Republican leaders made an of
fer to the Democrats to agree to vote
on a designated day of the session. This
proffer was accompanied with the threat
that if it was not accepted they would
use such tactics as might be deemed
advisable on this or other measures to
defeat the shipping bill.
The Republicans will meet today to
map out their plan of action.
At the conference last night practically
all the Democratic leaders were in ac.
cord that action should be had at this
session.
Senator Bankhead expressed his oppo
sition to the bill. Senator Clark also de
clared his purpose to demand that it be
materially modified. Other Senators sug
gested that they would seek to minimize
the degree of government Ownership and
operation, but declared their adherence
to the general principles of the measures.
Senators Simmons. Filetcher, and Stone
made speeches calling for united action
and compliance with the President's de
sire for prompt action.
Senator Simmons said the Democrats
would stay here all summer before they
accepted the suggestion of the minority.
Refugee Ship Safe in Port.
Havana. July 5.-The 'Ward liner
Monterery, believed lost, arrived today
from Vera Cruz with a large number of
American refugees. It was twenty-six
hours late owing to a severe storm
through which it passed.
To Sell Traction Company.
Cincinnati. July 5-The Cincinnati
and Columbus Traction Company will be
sold by court order. The road has
anarated at a lose for three wem.
DEFENSE OF
BREAKS LI
BEFORE F
Second Teuton Line S
Giving Attackers
One-Qua
BELGIANS BEGIN
German Lines Around D
Been Successfully A
Attack Expected
(By the bt.
Paris. July 5.-Without giving th
French resumed their drive early this
the Teuton lines throughout the day.
As a result they succeeded in s
north and south of the Somme from
They penetrated ard held the second
highway to the river, a front of a in
Hem, and attacked the Monacu farm
and three-quarter miles of the fortress
completely of the last Teuton defende
FIX ON PLAN
OF HOME RULE
British Cabinet Unanimously
Adopts Proposals of
Lloyd George.
IRISH HOUSE OF COMMONS
TO BE CREATED BY TRANSFER
fBy the International 'ewe aerliet.
London. Jul, -E iu toots rut"
.traiad- adop!'l Ilo'd .eorre g. p.
potals fo: the settl-rt of the Ir.Fh
home-rule queston Tbc deero n
U n.rld: u, . r rw, lste'li r'l:na
tlons are now aep han. ,
Lord Lansdow ne "Ad WValt: -ho
hesitated to are, pt the a;:-tedl at
rargernent, nave now com. 11t 'inc n
the ;aound. f Impera: necessity.
E : Edward .'arson has alread- ort.
fled the go'e rnnment of t a.. ept.. r
the s.hem'e h the I:-h o n <te .l
Join Hl:]. .n b turn fron. I
land. ofi "., l anno m,. - d .I adh n -
to tih. N:,t :ona:an ; trol -
under 1.o'd ieor.-'s plan a homie-rule
Pardiament will be immediately set uP it
Dublin for al or I. lani ,e pt s. -
the nine 1 leter ountiest . tsi t. rem.
under the British Ir ;mnot. unti l ii.
end f the war
The Irish Hlouse .f <'ommena wc N
created by the trans to Irih Par a
menpt of the seventy-eziht 'en -af' n.
sitting in Lonti fo' the n.:tt-e.
honr-ru:e countis These s" cit.-".111
tem6ers w:ll reta:n the r -ats at \West
minister. and the miv.noLrs represethtl:
the excluded I':eter countis will a>'<
meet and continue to sit at We.stninster
The 1-nioni.t interests in the s uth an<
west of Irrla'i will be prosit'd tor h
the nominaten of their repe sentattim,
for thr Irish senate.
Carranza Guided
By Secret Pact
Reached an Understanding
with Wilson Several Days
Ago, Is Report.
By 1b IH STAN Sr !
(International News Seraice.I
El Paso. Tex. Jule 5-A ee.r-t under
standing of awhi.h the pb . :a no
knowrledoe ws:is reac hed Itn.t- th
White House and Frst Chief Carranza
several days ago. acnording ti a telegram
wh-ih has been torwarded t a Powerful
brokerage cone rn in New York by its
special aiwent here.
The informati n affords the first ex
planation of tarranza's order releasing
unconditionally the AmerPran presoner
captured at I arrizal. It also explains
the rapid withdrawal of the Pershing ex
pedition in the direction of the bonrer.
Respontsib.lity for the treacherous man
rer in which the Tenthn Cavalry troopt
were ambushed by Gen. Felix Goms it
not believed to Bawe beent taken into nt
count in the secret preliminary exchangl
of commnunicationsa.
Carranza's understanding of the situ.
tion is said to be that he will not be held
responsible for the long list of atrocitie.
which accumulated during the revolution
This Includes the Santa Tsabel massacre
the Columbus. Glen Springs and Browns
ville raids.
Bulgaria Interns Enemies.
London. July 5.-A Reuter dispatcl
states that the Bulgarian governmnen
has ordered the Internment of all en
erny subjects and the sequestration o
all property owned by commnercia
houses of enemy nationality.
Train Strike Near In Spain.
MadrId. July 5.-A general strike
Spanish raliwaymnen Is threatened for Jul:
1O. The government Is arranging to rI
pe~ase aa mai nzma,
GERMANS
KE PAPER
RENCH DRIVE
iouth of Somme Taken,
i Front of Six and
rter Miles.
BOMBARDMENT
ixmude Reported to Have
ssailed-Extension of
in Near Future.
ewm Serve.)
Germans a moment's rest to rally. the
morning and kept hammering away at
raightening out their new front, both
Curlu down to the %illage of Estrees.
German line from the Clery-Maricourt
ile and a quarter; took the village of
thus pushing their lines within three
of Peronne, and cleared Estrees village
rs.
kIold Six and One-fourth MiSe lree.
When evening came, the Frer.ch were
in absolute possession of the entire aec
and German line south of the Pomme. a
frort of nix miles and a quarter This
"as made possible by the seizure of the
communicating trenches bet ween Belloy
en-Santerre and Estress
The French night communique reports
the IvJpt ure of 600 more prisoner,. The
afternoon 'et.ort places the total number
of unwour-ded prisoners taken in the new
offensive at "far over 5,000
Ge-man counter attacks against the
new french positions at Beloy-n.-an
terr- were repulsed
The Ge-mans evIdetttly aiming at "a
diversion." todav laurched a sudden in
f:'try attack in Lorraine. In the region
,f St. Martin. They were sucessful in
penetrating the French line at three
points b :t. according to the French war
cf ic. retort tonight. were later ejected
ty a roitier-attack.
A sudden flare-up of a oty the
northern end of the westeru battle. la
is reported by the Belgian war amos
which says that the Belgian guns of all
calibers urdertook a succeseful syste
mati n bombardment against the Ge-rman
!:tr arnand I himude In the afte-rron,
th:s actwii'' developed into a violent
bomb battle sr-irited artillerv duels toe4
rlace in the dire-tior of Steenstraet%
northwest of Largemarek
Extenaton of Drive Fereseen.
The rtglan war office report is taken
here to foreehadow an extension of the
..rd r:e to the northern aetor of the
A! \etdan the situation was uimet to
da- . ace-pt for intermittent artiflerv
I. 'fnardment
Ttmght-s off: ial BritIh report states
that the da:, fighting corststed largely
- f eal struggles ' for the possession of
"-tat strong po:rts " It is not stated
what the-e points are.
'T-e statement fitrthe- asserts that ih,
ot-nian r.-ualt-es tiere eavy owing io
the futity it the Teuton counter-at
tarks " 4tr. more prisoners'- were tak
en todas Fpd the tota number taken s0
far is rut it more than 6.W
tuatrian Line ( us.
lordon. July t -A dis;t-tch from P.t-o
t ad late to: light states It is offiiauty en
'nmed there t ,AT Geti Fruiloff's army
it lngary has ,ut t".- Austrian hne
h. twe-,n Delatyr and Koroemezo.
This success comopletely i-olsted the en
*:re Southern Austro-tut-garian arms.
The Russiars are now le-tween that army
and the Northetn Austro-Iungania
forwes. and render the :mportant ral!
wsay line runnirg from lrmherc into the
heart of Ifungary useless for their ep
ponerts. The report shows that the
Russians hate a-ad ,oeed the Car.
pathians :n this region
TRY MAYOR AS GRAFTER,
DYNAMITER AND THUG
t By the Cnn News Aerwice.
Muncie. Ind . July , -Efforts of attor
neys for Mayor R. Il-mnch. who went
to trial today charg 9th conspiring
to solicit and accept Dea, lost the first
skirmish int their be l1e to vindicate the
m-ay-or. Special Judge Blaitr deaed the
motIon of the defense to dismiss the 'spe
etal panel of thirty-six venirena. de
clared by attorney. for the defense ta
have been "hand-lckd."
The mayoraloa nr neten
charged with placing dynaanite ute the
htomte of Wilbur Rman, and with at
tempted murder.
Britiah Limer Captured.
Amsterdam. July K--Twelve Genna
torpedo boat, captured the British tner
Brussels. which was reently taken Into
the Germsn naval bem at Zeebrugge,
-says the Telegrasf. The Brussels wine
surrounded and could net escape.
Green Heir Split $115,000,000.
New York, July 6 -The eesae left byr
the late Hetty Green. ps'obably will total
- 1i.00.000. it probably will he divided
between her son. Cot. Edward IL R
Green, and her daught~er, Mrs. Matthe
- sa Wmra
