"&XfWTy PS
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
icirnntui
NIGHT
EXTRA
r -z rr ( t-m?
VOL. II. !NG. 'JC3
2D INFANTRY LEAVES TRAIN AND PARADES THROUGH MEMPHIS
M&i8KKiM&3SKB
--'-""--''-'
rsrssyvx! "!-? - v rTry
J,,XAffiSKSjK5iM
This chance to stretch their legs came
FRENCH
NEWG
SOI
E
Advance North of Hem.
Batter Foe's Third
Defenses
KAISER AND HIS STAFF
ARRIVE TO HALT DRIVE
British Gain at Thiepval.
'" , Raid Trenches Near La
Bassee Canal
BERLIN ADMITS LOSSES
Teutons Shell Verdun Cathedral.
Artillery Active on
Mouse
French troops, after n brief Idll Inst
night, have resumed the attack against
he German front north and south of
the Sommc. French artillery is shell
ing the third line of Teuton defenses
before Pcronnc, while the infantry un
der General Foch ha3 gained new
ground north of Hem village, which the
French captured yesterday.
Tho Germans have launched strong
attacks north and south of tho Ancre.
Tho British made n slight advanco in
the fighting at Thiepval, northeast of
Albert. South of La Bassee Canal
British troops raided successfully a
number of enemy trenches, bringing
back prisoners. Highland infantry en
tered enemy trenches near Hulluch,
capturing and killing many Germans.
With French troops now almost in
the outskirts of Peronne, the Germans
are reinforcing heavily, particularly
on their right flank northwest of the
village. 1
Admissions that the British have
made -progress at Thiepval and that
the French have captured Belloy-En-Santcrre,
on the Somme P.iver front,
are contained in an official statement
issued by the Berlin War Office today,
Jt was stated, however, that the British
gain at Thiepval was balanced by suc
cessful counter-attacks by the Germans.
The Kaiser and members of tho Gen
eral Staff arrived on the west front de
termined to halt the Allied advance at
any cost.
Today's communiques show that the
first phase of the new offensive is over,
and, while the infantry activity is still
intense, the principal business of the
Allied armies for the next few days is
again to pavo the way with heavy guns
for another forward dash.
In brief, the main achievements of
the Anglo-French troops are these;
First. The capture of nearly a score
of strongly fortified villages from the
Germans.
Second, The capture of about 16,
000 German soldiers, as well as many
heavy guns, some of which had been
eent north from Verdun.
Third. An advance of from six to
eight miles on both sides of the Somme
over a front of 20 miles.
So rapid was the French advance
south of the Somme in the early stages
of the fighting that German detach
ments were cut off during the night in
some instances .ana surrounded, before
they knew they were under attack. A
CeoUoiud a Put Two. Column Ou
-TVT Tyragrs'myyy
as a wclcomo relief to the Philadelphia
attentions in the
SECOND REGIMENT
AT EL PASO TODAY
AFTER HARDSHIPS
Six Days of Tortuous Train
Journey Will End at
Border
MEN CHEERED IN TEXAS
By CARL L. ZEISBBRG
Evening Ltdaer Staff Correspondent
TQTAH. Tex., 2d Regiment Troop Train
En Rout? to El Paso, July 6.
Six days o torturous Journey over des
ert, mountain. rnngoJilll. peaceful valley
and 'paat productive farms will end today
for tho 2d Regiment. HI Paso In almost
In sight.
As tho two ions trains, the first and sec
ond Bectlops, clipped off the miles up the
Rio Grando Valley toward the goal. United
States soldiers encamped alone the route
cheered and waved their hat3. Sharp
shooters with loaded rifles watched over the
sleeping coaches during tho last night spent
on rails. On cery platform stood an ex
pet marksman picked by his company com
mander to guard the regiment from Mexi
can Bnlpers reported active In the Sierra
Dlanca region.
Close guard over the trains began at Dig
Spring late yesterday, where the two sec
tions met. The available ammunition, about
60 rounds, was distributed among picked
sharpshooters. Thereafter at every stop a
determined-looking man In khaki stopped
between the cars and allowed no one not in
uniform to approach the step3. The guards
were picked without the knowledge of "the
rest of the regiment, which passed through
tho treacherous foothills of the Davis
Mountains without being awaro that senti
nels were on watch.
GUARDS ON DUTY.
Tho guards on the first section were Ser
geant Charles Appel, Company A i Sergeants
Floyd McMonlgall and James W. McMeekln,
of Company B j Sergeants Robert Whlttaker
and "Walter Kagan, of Company C, and Arti
ficer Anthony Comtek and Sergeant Rudolph
, .
Continued on I'aco Two, Column Fle
FIVE HURT; SECOND RIOT
ON DELAWARE AVENUE
Two' Detectives Among the In
jured in Battle of Bricks
and Bottles With
Negroes
POLICE RUSHED TO RESCUE
Five persons were Injured in a second
riot this afternoon on tho Delaware ave
nue piers, where longshoremen are on
strike. In last night's riot one man was
killed and three other persons injured,
bringing the total casualties in 24 hours to
nine.
Those injured this afternoon weret
Charles Barnes, negro detective; contu
sions, shot through hat, bullet searing scalp.
Joseph Chambers, 31 years old, 1721 Titan
street ; contusions, hit on head wfth brick.
John Sawyer, 26 years old, of 1938 Fernon
'street; shot in right hip; Pennsylvania
Hospital.
.Glenn Perrymore, 18 years old, of. U6Q
Cleveland avenue; lacerated skull, knocked
down with club,
Charles Beckman, detective; treated at
City Hall for broken actio by Dr. John
Wanamaker, ,3d.
So serious ha the situation become that
Superintendent tt Police Robinson, shortly
after the riot call was sounded, appeared at
the plera to take personal charge of the
policemen, to whom other reinforcements In
large numbers had been sent. The Pennsyl-
CvaUsucd so !' Two, Celiuaa Six
RWK
$&ti&03f3&ss8&a!S6
1'noto by Mfiilnic l.tHlwer mutt imotngrapiuT in ruum to uunici.
soldiers after long hours of sitting on train scats. They were shown many
Tcnncssco city.
.TACKIES KILLED 21 MEXICANS
IN MAZATLAN HARBOR CLASH
Twenty-five Also Reported Wounded
After Firing on Boot
SAN DIEGO, Cal. July 6 Twenty-one
Mexican soldiers wcro killed and 25 wounded
In tho clash between bluejackets of the
United States gunboat Annapolis nnd Cnr
ranza soldiers nt Mazatlan Juno IS, ac
cording to officers of tlto naval transport
Buffalo, which Is In port hero today. Tho
officers said they heard tho estimate from
Mexican sources before the Buffalo left for
San Diego with refugees.
A Korean holding the position of lieu
tenant In the Mexican army fired the shot
In the Mazatlan fight which fatnlly wounded
Boatswain's Mato I. M. Laughter, officers
of the Buffalo said.
ARMY WON'T QUIT
MEXICO UNTIL U. S.
IS FULLY ASSURED
Pershing to Stay Until Car-
ranza Makes Good
His Pledge
WILL REPLY TO NOTE
WASHINGTON, July 6 Secretary of
State Lansing announced, following half an
hour's conference with the President, that
an Immediate reply would be sent to Car
rnnza's latest note. He nlso stated that
future negotiations with the de facto Gov
ernment would bo conducted solely through
diplomatic channels. Ho made It plain that
while this Government regarded mediation
favorably It did not think It was required In
the present Mexican situation.
Tho department Issued lhe positive state
ment that General Pershing's expedition
would not bo ordered out of Mexico at this
time as a result of Carranza'a note. It was
made emphatically plain that tho American
troops would not be withdrawn until further
assurances are received that the border wilt
be protected against raids similar to that at
Columbus.
The fact that Carranza did not disavow
orders to General T,revlno to fire upon
American troops left a 'real Issue, hut
officials view his reply as Indicating a de
sire to clean tho slate and start anew.
In the absence of Secretary Lansing, who
starts his vacation tomorrow. Counselor
Frank Polk will handle whatever negotia
tions are (Undertaken. Direct dealing be
tween Polk and Ambassador Arredondo la
the probable Administration course.
It Is probable Secretary Lansing will
begin work at once on the reply to Car
ranza. It Is possible he will have It ready
to present to the Cabinet tomorrow before
he leaves. What the reply will embody
Continued on fun Two. Column Sli
Pictures From the Front
Philadelphians and Pennsylva
nians whose friends and relatives
aro in the Federal service yill be
keenly, interested in knowing how
their soldier-heroes work and play
"Down on the Border"
Actual photographs tell the story
far better than words pan do.
Realizing this, complete arrange
ments have been made by the
Euemng ffieiiger
to show just how the troops live in
camp, the charaqter of their sur
roundings and their daily activities,
even if actual fighting occurs.
Staff Photographers
as well as staff correspondents for
this newspaper are with the sol
diers and as long as the troops are
on duty the best service possible will
be rendered to the readers of tho
Euening tMk e&ger
ONE CENT I
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, JULY 0,1010.
SUCCOR SPEEDED
TO CARRANZISTAS
BEATEN BY VILLA
Battle Near Jiminez Expect
ed to Follow Rout
of Romas
NEW ARMY OF BANDITS
EL PASO, Tex., July 6 "Fancho"
Villa's wild horpemen today rre beating
back the Cnrranzlsta forces In a running
battle between Parral nnd Jlmlncfc. Min
ister of War Obrcgon has ordered General
Jnclnto at Chihuahua to rush reinforce
ments to tho battlefield from Chihuahua
City.
Long trains carrying Carranzlsta soldiers
already nro reported to have nrrhed at
Santa Rosallo. northwest of Jiminez
Wlro communication routh of Junrcz was
destroyed last night and this added to tho
anxiety of the Carranza leaders In tho
city Just across the Itlo Grande. Mohnted
couriers brought the last reports.
Villa's latest outbreak comes at a time
extremely embarrassing to the Carranza
government, as Villa's activities character
istically do.
In official reports the Carranzlstas have
endeavored to prove to tho United States
that Villa was dead and that his outlaws
were dispersed. Upon this Carranza largely
based his demands for the withdrawal of
the punltlvo expedition
In his latest communication to Washing
ton, General Carranza stated that his forces
had the power to Bubdue any rebel army
that might renew hostilities He promised
this strength to quell new uprisings.
The diplomacy of Carranza had suc
ceeded well. According to the best Informa
tion General Pershing's expeditionary force
wns about to return ; in fact, has already
started the retrograde movement to Colunu.
bus. In addition to this, negotiations were
opened and well on their way to an agree
ment for the Joint patrol of the border, an
other Carranaz Idea,
Then came the news that Villa was at It
Continued on Pace Two, Column Four
WEDS NIECE IN SECRET
AND FINDS HER FALSE;
TAKES LIVES WITH GUN
Clandestine Marriage at Shore
Unknown Even to Slayer's Sis
ter Until Norristown Trag
edy Reveals It
OTHER MEN LOVED GIRL
NORIUSTOWN. Pa.. July 6 John O,
WUHams, of 206 Kast Rim street, had
planned to go to Philadelphia today. His
sister, Mrs- Jennie Reynolds, and her daugh
ter, Miss Martha Reynolds, who made their
home with him, had helped him pack his
satchel and his trunk, which he had checked
to the Vendlg Hotel, Philadelphia.
Mr. William had been HI and he did not
feel any too well today, he said, so he did
not get up for breakfast. When Miss. Rey
nolds was about to go to the Diamond State
Fibre Company plant, where she was em
p!oed aa an inspector, she said to her
niother, "I must go up and tell Unce John
good-by "
She went up. A moment later Mrs. Rey
nolds heard revolver shots in the bedroom
up stairs. She screamed and ran up. She
found her daughter and her brother lying
dead on the floor. Blood was spurting from
the girl's breast and streaming from her
head. Wllllama had blown out his brains.
Neighbors rushed In and Charles i
White, registrar of vital statistics, and
John ' J Carrlgan, detective, were sum
moned. Mrs. Reynold stood wringing her
tvandi and weeping and crying aut that
CeattaMd on Fax, Tire, Colunu Two
QUICK NEWS
FIRE CAUSES $400,000 LOSS IN PITTSBURGH
PITTSBURGH, July 0. Damage to the extent of 9400 000 vns
dene by n file today in the heart of the Pittsburgh wholesale district.
Tor a time the destruction of an entire business blockw aeiUicntenrO,
but tho firemen were able after two hours' work to confine thf 'Iro
to lite M. ICauffmnnn 'warehouse, which was destioyed, and ail adjoin
ing four-stoiy brick building which was badly damaged.
EENSACOLA WATERFRONT REPORTED WASHED AWAY
ATLANTA, Ga., July 0. The water front at Pensacola was
washed away in yesterday's hurricane, according to uuconfhmed re
volts trickling into Atlanta this afternoon. Tho damage in Penoacola
is said to be extensive. No mention was made of lem of life. The
high -water has begun to lccede and wlie communication has been
tcstoicd as far as riomaton. ,
FEAR TROUBLE BETWEEN NEGRO TROOPS AND CIVILIANS
L
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., July 0. Gcneial Funston today appealed
to the citizens of San Antonio to aid In pi eventing tioublo between
the Illinois negro militia regimont here and civilians. lie said lie
had no fear from the better element, but that "roughnecks" nnd
towdies might try to start something with the negro tioops. The
officcis of the negro guardsmen have been instructed trgardiug Texas
laws applying to blacks.
AQUEDUCT RACING RESULTS
First lace, 3-ycar-olds nnd up, handicap, 0 furlongs Thunderer,
110, Kcogh. 7 to 10 and out, won Hanson, 102, Schuttinger, 7 to 1, I)
to 5 and 3 to 0, second; Dr. Lariick, 107, Garner, 10 to fi, 4 to 0 and
1 to '., tlihd. Time, 1.15. i
I
U. S. WAR BONDS IN SMALL FIGURES PLANNED
V
WASHINGTON, July G. An enthely new issue of war bonds will bo authorized
by Congress. Tlio I'anuma Canal bonds, now authorized, are not to bu used to rnloo
money to pay tho expanses of nny military operations, according to present indica
tions at tho Treasury Department. The Fnnnma bonds run for B0 years, and tho
Administration is opposed to snddllnir the Government with tho burden of CO years'
Interest charges. Spoclnl war bonds of small denominations running from one to
flvo years probably will bo tho medium selected, it was stated at the Treasury today.
CITY HAS BALANCE OF $8,187,586.97
The amount paid into tho City Treasury during tho week ending last night wan
J3.921.3-I8.S8 and the payments amounted to $1,113,470.29. This, with tho balance
on hand from tho provlous week, not Including tho Sinking Fund account, leaves
a balance on hand of $8,187,586.97 deposited In various banks nnd trust companies.
AMERICANS WIN DOMINICAN BATTLE JULY 1; LOSE ONE
WASHINGTON, July C Rear Admiral Caperton, commander of American
marines in Santo Domingo, today reported to tho Navy Department that n battle
was fought between marines nnd revolutionists on July 1 in which ono American
was killed, ono seriously v.oimded and several slightly wounded. Twenty-seven
natives wcro killed, five captured and an unknown number wounded. The American
killed wrs Corporal George Krazee. Tho marines were advancing toward Santiago,
Santo Oomingo, under Colonol Joseph H. Pendleton, when they encountered about
2G0 rebels strongly Intrenched at Guaycanes. The rebel outposts started firing,
tho American being killed nt onco. Tho natives wero soon routed, carrying their
wounded with them.
lfiOO SINN FEINERS INTERNED
LONDON. July 6. Of the 3000 persons arrested In Dublin during the Sinn Fein
uprising. 1200 have been released and the otheis have been placed In an internment
camp, it wau announced In Commons today by Homo Secretary Herbeit Samuel.
86 KILLED IN SULPHUR MINE IN SICILY BY EARTHQUAKE
ROME, July 6. Eighty-six persons were killed, 26 were Injured and 100 were
entombed by tho collapse of three sulphur mines In Palpanobsetta during an earth
qui Ito today.
AMERICAN SURGEON ORDERED OUT OF TAMPICO
WASHINGTON, July 0. Acting Assistant Surgeon Oscar J. Maher. of the
United States Public Health Service, today reported from Aransas Pass, Tex., where
he has arrived, that the Mexican nuthoiitlcs ordered him to leave his post at
Tamplco. Maher arrived yesterday with about SO other Americacn refugees. The
coast guard cutter Comanche has been ordered to give a number of refugees free
passage to GaKeston, as they aro destitute.
AVAR CLOUDS HOVER OVER SOUTH AMERICA
BUENOS AIRES, July 6. Venezuela and Peru have secretly concluded a poten
tially warlike alliance against Colombia and Ecuador, according to a report, which,
though unconfirmed, has reached Huenos Aires from usually reliable sources. Vene
zuela wants a strip of eastern Colombia 30 miles wide, Peru wants the portion of
Ecuador forming a triangle on the east and the portion of Colombia forming n
trlanglo on the south. In case of war. it Is reported, Peru engages to invado Ecuador
on the south, while Venezuelan troops attack Colombia on her eastern frontier,
Washington has been advised of the situation and certain negotiations are reported
under way.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS MUCH IMPROVED AT TAMPICO
WASHINGTON, July 6, The local branch of the Mexican Petroleum Company
today advised the State Department that conditions at Tamplco as they affect the
oil interest were much improved. The authorities there have offered guarantees
to the company and their shipments are going forward without Interruption.
V ,
REFUGEES FROM MEXICAN WEST COAST SAIL FOR U. S.
WASHINGTON, July 6. Rear Admiral Wlnslow, commander of tho Pacific
fleet, today reported to the Navy Department that all Americans wishing to leave
Mexico from the west coast, except a few at Guadalajara, had been started for the
United States. The Guadalajara refugees vr 'o:,p'-ted to arrive at Manzanlllo
yesterday." Admiral Wlnslow soldi - - - .. - v. high rank wish to uold
anything that might precipitate hostilities."
' CASEMENT APPEAL TO BE HEARD JULY 1?
LONDON, July 6. The hearing on Roger Casement's appeal was tpday Bet
for July 17. Five Judges will hear the arguments to be presented by his cpunsel
why sentence of death imposed on him should not be executed. '
i i i .j
WOMAN AiqS IN $2400 BANK ROBBERY
ST. MARYS, Kan., July 6. Four persons were sliet. one probably fatally, by
robbers who escaped after having stolen $3100 from St Mars Stat Bank here. The
jobbers came to the town -n an automobile driven by a woman, witnesses said, who
guarded the street leading tj the bank whjla her thiee companion? wreaked tb, safe.
The robbers rirjd shots up and down th itreet as they fled. Mrs. James Howard
pnd her son Cay Howard were woat4 wlille standing iu the doorway of their
1 sine near the lank. R J Pest, at marshal wua shot through the lungs and Is
expected to. die,
Constant, 1010, t me Pchlio I.non Courmtj
"
P11IOIS ONHJ OEiSTT
GERIAN RIGA
LINES PIERCED
BY SLAV ARMY
Lemberg Railroad Cut
by Russian Left
Wing
AUSTKIANS ROUTED
ALONG THE DNIESTER
Desperate Battle Still in
Progress in the Region
of Baranovichi
COUNTER-ATTACKS VAIN
Another Town on Dolatyn-
Korosmczo Railway Occupied
by the Czar'a Forces
Tho Russian right wing, on which
rests the defense of the northernmost
sector of the front north of the Pripct,
has attacked the German lines in tho
Riga zone, according to an official an
nouncement made today at Pctrograd,
nnd has pierced the first-line1 trtnehes
of Field Marshal von llindcnburg.
Probably the attack was made After
the Russian staff noticed that troops
were withdrawn from that sector to bo
sent to France, and in order to pre
vent further shifting of German unita
to the western war theatre.
Pctrograd announces that the Rus
sian forces operating in southern Ga
licia have cut tho railroad between
Delatyn nnd Korosmczo, "the principal
line of communication for tho Austro
German forces defending Lemberg."
Dclntyn is on the Pruth River, about
20 miles west of Kolomca; Korosmczo
is in the Carpathians, near tho Tar
taren or Magyar Door Pass. Delatyn
itself i3 nbout 100 miles southwest of
Lcmbcrg, too far from the Galician
capital to endanger seriously its de
fense. Moreover, the railway between
Delatyn nnd Korosmezo is not the only
one or the main one linking Lemberg
with Hungary or the rest of Austria.
The city can freely communicate with
tho rest of tho empire north nnd west
of tho Dniester through at lenst three
more railroads, two of which lead into
Hungary across tho Carpathians.
However, tho Delatyn - Korosmezo
Railroad was tho only direct communi
cation left to the Lemberg forces to
keep in touch with tho remnants of
General von Fflanzcr's army, which
probably have retreated across the
southern ridgo of tho Carpathians into
Transylvania. It i3 likely that the
Petrograd official statement intended
to refer to PflanzcV's army when it an
nounced that "the main lino of com
munication for tho forces defending
Lemberg" was cut.
Certainly the Russian success is very
important, as it clears the Carpathians
west of Kolomea of the Austrian forces
and compels them to "seek another route,
some 40 miles to the north, to com
municate with the centre of the Teuton
armies.
RUSSIANS POUND TEUTONS' '
LINES NEAR RIGA; ADVANCE
FURTHER TOWARD HUNGARY
PETROGRAD. July 0, Important suc
cesses for the Russians all along the front
were reported today by the War Office.
Russian soldiers opposing the army croup
of Field Marshal von Jllndenburg have
broken through the first line positions of the
German in the Riga sector.
In the region of Baranovichi the great
battle between the Russians and the Ger
mans under Prince Leopold of Bavaria con
tlnues with many prisoners falling Into the
hands of the Russians.
In Oallcla MIKullczyn has been captured,
and on the right bank of the Dniester Aus-tro-German
forces opposing the Russian
have been put to flight.
Following Is the text of the official report!
Continued on I'ate Two. Column Tvr
THE WEATHER
It's just about this time that the straw
hat which we placed great dependence upon
begins to show its real dUpovltlon, Its,
complexion of Innocence is departing and
it seems to take great delight In letting tha
people know that It dates away back from
early May.
For an excuse it will tell you that It with
stood the rains of June and the dust and
sun of other weary days. To make matter
worse, even the black band which encircle
Its candid face Is fading In sympathy
And beckoning to you from the window
am platoons of other sporty straws They,
too, hold out great promises, but. like the
tralto.' you aru about tj discard, will turq
on you before the bell of autumn rings,
lest you take great care. But you fchould
be thankful. Tblnk of what It would b?
if yu were tortured by a clinging black
Derby in taeso Ideal days.
FORECAST
For Pkiladtlphia and vicinity Fair
tonight and Friday; tlightly warmer
Friday; gentle, shifting winds.
LOST i.NDFO USD
bn la ae UeJ"'huaiJ tit SiJj bo ink .
uiujr pli retura tor lu ;k st turo troim
lrted ,fiWra rwar4 If rtUnJ ta igj
iui,il J-uW. TutU ju&e J' iHHijfcaaii a
biivy chnd gutd cioc with tbrce 4buu4
nana olonmr.Dr John Jl Vtmmt wihm
liuUe. Very Ubl rtwara II " t
SSI. N Utojid 4
otiusr hot anJ uw4 M " F- 11
41
!? ft
