I -
Stinging Up Father
Ncccr Loses Its Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
fUcJjttwnit STimes -
Frank Carpenter
Look, for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispatch
66th YEAR
VOL.1;SIB flfl
M'MIH-nt 1.H7
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
va?.k ?FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Represents Approximately
Six-Mile Gain South
of the Somme.
VILLAGE OF HEM ALSO
CAPTURED BY ALLIES
British Apparently Fail to Ad
vance, but Lose None of
Ground Already Won.
< OMPAK.VITVK Ql'IKT AT VF.IIDI'N
'J'alk K??vi\c<l of IiIilc- lOntraiirc
<>f Itouniaiiiu Into War on
Shir of Fntcnic.
! .
The t;r<- ud position of the
? i'-rmatis i.f tli? Somme, over an
' \tent ol' approximately six miles, has
I ill< it Into 11.1.:i ? < 1?'f tli?? French,
11 ?? ha\e a't-o iaptMli'1 the \ lilac- of
Hem. niiir II." no tli-iri extremity of
I Heir lin*-, ;i it "I li;j\> "??nipl<-i""l their
? Illilll'.'St <-f I Nl I ? ? ?
Tlii lirltiHi lun- li :? :ip|i.-ti i tit ly failed
advance, i \? . |it litrlii 1>- In curtain
?-?ctors," as tlx- Hilti--li War Olll^p puts
i' Noiii- ?.( the u round iraiin'il by th"
KritItili L.;.' '.mi-ii |oft, l''iwfvi'P, ami the
flirtr stir- rent that tin fightlni: .ill
along tin* Kittle frut.t vast mo.-tly III
11.nature of local struggle* for Hi
I-OSKOSMIOII ?>! i-t|i.:it? points XVI>iJ1 ? I seem
l<> indicate II, I . ill sl?l.. Ik d'-vot ing
Particular ,i111'iit ion to t he organization
<tf its positions . mi the mrengtlu-ning
of its liiinii for t'nrtli*? t- attack nr ?ic
f.-ti. ??.
The number of ? ierman prisoners re
j ? -r? ??? I by ill" Hiiiish :? r? ? i Fr? ncli has
nailu-il about I'i.OO", while tlit- German
' i: i iltii-s ii.iVi- 1.. ? a unotlicially c.-.ti
niitfii at
On tl.eir p.tit t: ?? Germans report the
t ilting < I" a considerable : 'iinhf r of
Krit it'll soldu t>.
i omi'aha i i\ !?: <tt u:*r
mviti.hs o\ i:it \ \
Comparative i|uiet f..r the time being
ha.s settled fivi-i Vi-rilun, although the
bombardments continue, Hui the <".er
tnans have opened a new attar1; on the
French lines- near tlie Lorraine fron
t.er, some miles to the east of Lune
ville. They delivered strong assaults
against the French trenches in this
scctor, and entered thetn at three
points, only to be driven out shortly
?t 11 crwards.
A success of the first importance is
;? ported by the Russians, who claim
to have cut the railroad running ftotn
l. mberg. the capital of ?;a?lcla. to
1 elatyn. This is the main line of com
munication for the Aust: o - German
forces defending Lemberg and allied
ti.ilitary critics have Insisted that the
eitting f-f this railroad would compel
the central po-A-.j force t- fall back
on a wide .!??:.t, in ? pi. I.- mberg iri
Imminent p. ?.
TllO !:?:? V. . ' : ?. :n a late
coin nr.: . .....
the vii'-n ? ! < ci. ?",.t bin!': of
the l.'nii-f- ?
I.KIt t! iNs I OS FIIH \'J
i ??: lit : i \i u k.i. iioi.li
Vie a y i : : ? i ? . 1: r!ii : ? spe,.nng
tin Anglo-l : i : :. ;|, t con
li ltiicc on the j ;; .. iiernians
tlis*t the Goi xi..11j ..:i. w ; i l.olil, and
that German contiol of the territory
n-'W occupied i:i Franco and Belgium
will remain steadfast. The successes
so far attaineit by the French and
British art looked upon .is of minor im
portance.
Talk has been revived of the possi
ble entrance of Roumaitia into the Km
ropeaii War. Dispatches tell of the
recent decision of the two strong fac
tions in the Roumanian political arena
:o act together hereafter. The atti
tude is said to be in favor of the
?>nteiite allies. ,
Constantinople otliciallv reports that
:bo Russians have been driven out of
Kermanshah. in Western Persia, while
ihe Russians claim to have broken the
Turkish line east of Baiburt.
The number of Russian prisoners
captured south of the Prlpet River in
the month of June, according to the
statement from Vienna by way of Ber
lin, reached more than 23,000 men.
FRENCH FORCES NOW IX
oj t.skhits ok im:ho\ni:
PARIS, July 5.?The full force of the
French offensive is again being exerted
lioth north and south of the Somme. but
principally southward. In this dlrec-1
tion the Frcnch are now in the out
skirts of Peronne. the great railway
;enter which is their tirst objective in
their effort to cut the <Ierman cotn
iiunications.
Sorniont farm, taken by the French,
is only two miles from Peronne, and
idjoins Its suburban houses. The im
portance which the Germans attach to
[his point Is shown in their fierce
;ounterattnck Inst night, when they
rushed the French lines back to the
/illage of Belloy-en-Santerre, which
they momentarily held. This village
lies between Assevillers and Estrees,
[>oth held by the French, so that the
German rush temporarily made a dent
n the advance. This dent was quickly
straightened out when fierce hanrl-to
uind lighting placed the town again in
French hands. I
The number of German prisoners
taken is now close to lO.ODu, while the
?>\tent of the munlttons captured Is
shown In the fact that sixty guns were
nken by a single army corps.
Meantime, the movement north of the
Somme Is necessarily retarded, in order
:hat tho French left wing may act
dmUltanoously with the British right'
vlng. v
Tho British have been facing an ex-i
romely heavy resistance, and larger
ierman ro-cnforcoments are still being,
?ushod forward.
Tho French have now in somo places!
(Continued on~Firth^"Page.) 1
VIRGINIA TROOPS '
BEGIN LONG TRIP !
' 4 '' ^ \k *7*^^
First Regiment Entrains
Th is Morning", and Second
Follows This Afternoon.
Vs. A / r >
^ , / / O
SIX TRAIN SECTIONS WILL
CARRY MEN TO BROWNSVILLE
Guardsmen, Numbering 2,000
Men and Officers, Will Reach
Border About Monday.
('AMI* IS TIIKON(Ji:i> A Mi DAY
Thousands Come to Say Farewell to
Soldiers Ordered South as
Frontier Put ml.
L'nder orders from t lir? I ?epartment of
the Fast, the troops of the Virginia
National fJu.'iril. about ".000 men an<l
ot!j. ers, i 11 Ix-Kin movement from
Camp Il< nry i.'arter Stuart to the bor
der this morning at 7 o'clock. The
First Regiment will entrain lirs'. The
Second Regiment will begin entrain
inent in the afternoon at i n'rlnck.
Kach regiment will move mi three sec
tions, eai-li section to be under coni
maml of a commissioned oflicer. The
l.or?l?? r will t><- reached about Monday.
The First Regiment struck ramp
tlii~ morning at o'clock. being allowed
four hours in which to load equipment
a?sd ? ntrain. The Second Battalion,
Major .1 Fulmer Bright commanding,
will hav t ho h>>nor of moving first.
Major Bright bring the senior major
ill the r<ciment. The second section.
r;irrylii(! tin- l-'irst Battalion, Major
Pryt?.-n ? oiiimaii<iiior. will entrain at
71" o'l lo k. or a- soon thereafter as
the track;- are cleared. The third .sec
tion will be taken out at o'clock,
canv inp regimental headquarters and
the third battalion, all under Colonel
W. J. Perry.
s?:ro\l> hi-x;|}i?:\t wim,
I-:.\TUA1\ THIS AFTFUVOON
The Second Ui.-Rinicnt will begin |
movement 11 j - afternoon at 4 o'clock ;
The Second Battalion, commanded by
Major Benjamin R. Harrison, will pro- ,
reed on the tirst section. The First
Battalion. Major beech commanding',
will travel on the second section, and
the Third Battalion and the regimental
headquarters staff will travel on the
third section, which will be under the
personal command of Colonel Robert
F I.eedy.
The First Regiment will be moved
over the Seaboard Air I.iiie, and will i
travel via Atlanta. Montgomery and
New Orleans. to Brownsville. The
Second Regiment will be moved over
the Southern Railway, traveling via
Birmingham, Shreveport, Dallas and
Houston to Brownsville The journey
may take from three ?.> five days. and.
I: view of the delay that may be In
.rre.l. Major A'.b-n Potts. camp quar
ter: lister, issued t? n days' rations,
v. h: 'i will re for the troops en route
.-id give them sustenance for the first
w d.ivs in camp on the border.
? >! >ne| chnrles H. Consolvo, pay
? ???r will issue 21 cents a day to
? :.:,.ii sent forward, the money to'
be Uft-d for the purchase of li<iuid
cufl ? e.
Bi;.-ade headquarters was under or
to be ready to move the militia
?en to F.l l'<?so. San Antonio or
Brownsville, and four routes were
mapped out by the War Department.
The First Regiment will run upon 1
Route 3. passing through Atlanta, and
the Se.-ond Regiment will be operated
over Route 4. going through Birming
ham. The First Regiment will be
transported in forty-eight cars, six
teen to a section, and the Second Regi
ment will 'be moved in fifty-one cars, ;
seventeen to a section.
TltOOI'S Wit.I. C.O A HOARD
IN It.. F. I?. VARUS
Kntrainment will be in the yards of
the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Po
tomac Railroad, next to the Fair ;
?; rounds. So far as possible, farewells
will be torbidden at the time of en
trainment. Movement will be made
early in the morning, in case of the j
First Regiment, to avoid sorrowful
parting. The Second Regiment cannot
be moved before the afternoon, and the 1
hoir was set at 4 o'clock so that there J
might be a smaller lingering of those
who come for the last kiss and the j
final word. j
News that the movement forward,
was finally to begin traveled fast
through camp and city. More thnn !
5,000 people visited the concentration j
point in the afternoon to bid their last!
adieus. More than a thousand men j
spent the afternoon in writing home !
from the Y. M. C. A. building. Blue- ;
eyed youngsters from the shale of Ac- J
comae nibbled their pens while they '
were trying to gather their thoughts |
to cheer the mother at home, and
sturdy mountaineers from the South- ;
west chewed their pencils as they j
wrestled with faint idea. All through
the afternoon mothers and fathers j
traveled from tent to tent to say good
by. Many of them had come from the '
far borders of the Slate. Mothers ?
hugged sons upon whose cheeks n ?
razor had never been drawn, and'
fathers, forgetting their former stern-'
ness. ran through the boys' curls drop- j
ping on the neck.
The whole camp was solemn. A young
mountaineer who had never left liis
hills before collapsed in his mother's'
arms. Another who had spent his life .
on the water broke down when his
sweetheart came for her farewell. But '
both gathered themselves together and
managed to smile through their tears.
KII3M) HOSPITAL C ORPS
HKMAINS A WII 11.10 1,0X013 It
When the troops movo out to-day ?
the whole inner field will he deserted.
The Field Hospital Corps, Captain
Borland commanding, will remain on J
(Continued on Third, rage.) r
^.iH?<?>; -
CARRANZA'S FRIENDLY REPLY
OPENS WAY TO NEGOTIATIONS
Trooper* released by Mexicans after capture at Carri7.nl and detention in prison, grouped smiling and happy on the United States end of tiio
International iiridge, which ronneets K1 I'aso, Tex., with .Juarez, Mex. Kneeling in the center of the first row with white hat on hi* head is Ijcm
Kpillshury, I'nited States scont and interpreter, who was also held captive with troopers by Cnrranzn forces. Upon their arrival on American soil
each cavalryman was presented with a bouquet and then given a kerosene bath and a pair of blue overalls and a jacket to match.
MOBILE AND FENSflCOLA !
CUT OFF B* HURRICANE;
i
FfTorts to Learn Fxtent of Storm j
That Sweeps Inland From
Gulf Fruitless.
i
SO.MK LOSS OF I,IFF FKARKD
Anxiety Felt for Residents and Tour
ists on Low Coast Points?L. & X.
Annuls All Trains Out of New Or
leans liecause of Washouts.
N'KW ORLKAXS. July 5.?With Mo
bile and Pen.-a -ola cut-off from all com
rr.unication s.noe morning, efforts to
learn the extent f the hurricane that
swept inland fr m the Gulf early to-day
have been fruitless. High winds and
tides were reported from many coast
points east of here, but, with the excep
tion of small shipping, the damage
seemed to have been nominal.
Communication with P^nsacola was
lost at 9:30 o'clock this morning,
shortly after word had come from there
that the wind was blowing seventy-two
miles an hour, and increasing in ve
locity. All wires to Mobile failed at
11 o'clock, at which time a seventy-'
mile-an-hour gale was blowing there.
Attempts to get in touch with these
points by wireless have failed.
The center of the main hurricane
early to-night, according to estimates
by Weather Bureau officials, was
thought to be still in the Gulf about
loO or 200 miles off the southeast Louis
iana coast, and moving at probably,
eighty miles an hour. Weather Bureau
officials, however, said it was impossi- ;
ble to give the location or velocity:
accurately.
AX.XIKTV FBI.T FOR PKOPLE
AT I.OW POINTS ON COAST
Some anxiety was felt here for resl-j
dents and tourists at Granrl Isle, on the
southeast Louisiana coast, and also forj
residents of Barataria and surrounding!
low country along the Gulf, where it;
was ft-ared the high tides and wind j
might cause loss of life.
As soon as the hurricane warning'
was ordered by the Washington i
Weather Bureau to-day the local bureau
sent out warnings, by telephone, tele
graph. by boats and courier, to all1
places which might be exposed to the;
storm, and it was believed most of the '
people in the lowlands were given time
to move to places of safety.
The Louisville and Nashville annulled
all trains out of -New Orleans to-night,
owing to washouts. Railroad officials,
however, said they expected to run
trains to Mobile and through trains by j
to-morrow morning.
HUGHES IN NEW YORK
Agrees to I.IImthI llt'preHeiitntlon of
Progressive 1'nrty on IIIh Cnm
pniun Committee.
NKW YORK. .1 uly 5.?Charles L0.
Hughes, here on a two days' trip from
his summer home at liridgehampton.
to-day approved the proposal of his
advisers to have a liberal representa
tion of the Progressive party on his
campaign committee. This committee
virtually will have entire charge of the i
campaign. The tentative program calls
for a committee of seventeen, of whom j
ten will be members of the executive
committee of the Republican National
Committee. Of the remaining seven,
probably fivo will be Progressive lead
ers.
In a long conference with Chairman
Wilcox, of the national committee, Mr.
Hughes outlined his proposed program
providing for tlio opening of the cam
paign with a five weeks' trip to tho
Pacific Const, beginning early In Au
gust.
4
Carranza's Reply
to United States
Very Conciliatory
GivesAssurances of Desire
to Reach Friendly Ad
justment of Diffi
culties.
WASHINGTON, July 5.?TIip reply
of the de facto government of Mexico
to the demands of the United States,
conciliatory in terms and giving as
surances of a desire to reach a friend- i
ly adjustment of the difficulties be
tween the two countries, was delivered ?
to the State Department to-day by a ;
Mexican embassy attache.
Brief and free from all ruperfluous j
language of diplomacy, the communi- J
cation points to the release of the '
American troopers captured at Car
rizal as proof of the Mexican govern
ment's sincere desire to avoid a con
flict; states as the outstanding issue
tho reasonable belief of the United i
States that the insecurity of its fron- j
tier is a source of difficulty, and. on the j
other hand, the belief of the Mexican }
government that the presence of Ameri
can troops in Mexico is a trespass on
that country's sovereignty and the im
mediate cause of trouble.
In offering to consider in a "quick
and practical way" the remedies which
should be applied, the note gives no
tice that Mexico has accepted in prin
ciple Latin-American offers of media- j
tlon. and awaits information that the 1
United States is disposed to accept
mediation, or still is of the belief that
the same results may be attained by
direct negotiation.
HOPES I XITKU STATES WIIJ,
TAKI2 SI.MIL.AH STEPS
Assurances are given that in the
meantime the de facto government will
employ every effort to avoid a recur
rence of incidents which would com
plicate and aggravate the situation,
and the hope is expressed that the
United States will endeavor to have its ;
military and civil authorities do like
wise.
This is the reply of Oarranza to the
demand of the United States for a
statement of his intentions. A specific
response to the question of whether he
stands upon the instructions to General
Trevino to attack American troops
moving other than northward is
evaded, and there Is tio mention of the. !
reprimand administered by Secretary j
Lansing in his note of June 'JO on ac- i
count of the offensive insinuations and I
language contained in Carranza's last '
communication demanding recall of !
the American troops.
Although the note is signed by Gen
eral Agullar, Foreign Minister, officials
of tho Mexican embassy believe it was
dictated by General Oarranza himself.
The text of the note follows:
"Washington, I>. C, July 1, 191(1.
"Mr. Secretary,?I have the honor to
transmit in continuation tho text of a
note I have Just received from my gov
ernment with instructions to present
it to Your Excellency:
" 'Mr. Secretary,?Referring to tho
notes of June 20 and 25 Inst, I have the
honor to say to Your Excellency that
the Immediate release of the Carrlzal
Prisoners was a further proof of the
sincerity of the desires of this govern
ment to reach a pacific and satisfactory
arrangement of present difficulties.
This government Is anxious to solve
the presont conflict, and It would be
unjust If Its attitude were misinter
preted.
" 'it waa also tho Mexican govern
ment that earnestly RUggested a plan j
for cantonments alone the boundary
line during the conferences of Ciudad
Juarez and 121 Paso. This government
is dispose*! now, as it has always been,
to seek an immediate solution of the
two points which constitute the true
causes of the conflict between the two
countries, to wit: The American gov-;
eminent believes reasonably that the '
inso -urity of its frontier is a source of
difficulty, and the Mexican government,
on its part, believes that the stay of
American troops on Mexican territory,
aside from being a trespass on the
sovereignty of Mexico, is the imme
diate cause of the conflicts. Therefore, '
the withdrawal of American troops, on I
one hand, and the protection of the
frontier, on the oth< r. are the two
essential problems, the solution of
which must be the directing object of
the efforts of both governments
" 'The Mexican government is will
ing to consider in a quick and practical
way, nnd prompted by a spirit of con
cord, .the remedies which should be ap
plied to the present situation.
"'Several I-atin-Amerlcan countries j
have offered their friendly mediation j
to the Mexican government, and the |
latter has accepted it in principle.
Therefore, the Mexican government
only awaits information that the gov
ernment of the T'nited States would
be disposed to accept this mediation ;
for the purpose mentioned above, or ,
whether it is still of the belief that
the same results may be attained by 1
means of direct negotiations between ]
both governments.
AVI 1,1, IS.MI'l.OV AM. KITOHTS
TO AVOID HKCntllliXt K
"'In the meantime, this government j
proposes to employ all efforts that may
be at its disposal to avoid the recur- ;
rence of new incidents which may com- j
plicate and aggravate the situation, i
At the same time, it hopes that the 1
American government, on its part, may
make use of all efforts to prevent also
new acts of its military and civil au
thorities of the frontier that might
cause new complications.
"'I avail myself of this opportunity
to reiterate to Your Excellency the as
surranco of my most distinguished
considerat ion.
(Signed) *"C. AGUILAU.*
"Having thus complied with higher
instructions of my government, it af
fords me pleasure to reiterate to Your
Excellency the assurance of my highest
consideration.
(Signed) "E. AKHEDOXDO."
ERUPTION BECOMES SERIOJS
Plow of t.nvu From Stroiiilioll Spread*
to CoiiNt Settlement*. Uiiriiinn
and ItcMtrnyliig Hoiimcm.
HOME, July 4. S P. M. (via Paris.
July 5).?The eruption of Stropiboli
has become serious. The flow of lava
is spreading to the sparse coast settle
ments, burning and destroying houses,
and the population is fleeing to the
sea, and taking refuge on relief ships
sent from Messina. Telephonic com
munication with Messina has been in
terrupted.
Thero are many signs of scismlc dis
turbances throughout Italy. The heat
has been intense for the past two days.
Earth shocks occurred this morning
at Ancona, Klmlni, Belvedere, Maret
tlmo and other Adriatic dlstrtcts, byt
no loss of life has boon reported.
HOTEL RtlKOKIl ROOF TO-NIOHT.
Dinner-supper, music, duncloff, G:30 to 12.
CarranzH General Fights Lin II Shot
Down, Cheering His Men
to the Last.
HEAVY LOSSES ()\ HOTH SIDES
Encounter Continues During Day at
( orral Ranch, Southwest of .limi
ne/? Greater Part of Government
Command Dead or Wounded.
CHIHUAHUA (via El i'aso Junction,
lex.). July 5. General Igiinclo Ramos
was killed In a tierce am| bloody hat
tic that raped all yesterday between
a small force of ,le factor troops and
a large band of Villa follower* at Cor
ifl Hnnch. fifteen miles southwest of
?limine?.. Motli sides suffered heavy
losses.
Rather than retire to Jiminez with
out carrying out his orders, which were
not to return unless lu- was aide to
report success. General Ramos fought
In his entrenchments until killed,
cheering his men on to the last.
The Carranza troops were surrounded
on Monday at daybreak, ami for more
than twelve hours held their position
against heavy odds in tlie hope that
re-enforcements soon would arrive.
Sl it VIVolts ItlCTIItlJ W i l li
WOtMj|.;n 'J'o JMIIXKZ
At nightfall, after their leader had
been killed, and the greater part of
the command killed or wounded, the
survivors retired to .limine/, with their
wounded.
Three times during the dav the Villa
men dashed through heavy tire to ti.o
edge ot the Carranza trenches, but
were unable to take them.
Re-enforcements, which had been or
dered to Join General Ramos at Cor
SJi ? "V " wreck near
>tiz, and the proposed general offen
sive against the Villa forces did not
materialize.
AJter the Corral clash the garrison
a . anta Rosa!,.-, was rushed south to
?Iimmez against any attack l?
the meantime. J.000 troops, including
he famous hrlgado of Domingo Arret.,,
were sent south to attack the forces
which cut Off General Ramos's com
mand General Maclovlo Garcia, who
s in charge of this campaign, is keep
, " ' ? communication with G,?.
era I Trevlno.
GERMAN LOSSES. 60^000
Intimate H??e,l ?? \??,|,er ?f Prisoner,
" Thus Km r i? ,\n?lo
l-'reneli OflVnulie.
PRKSS CAMP IX PltA.VCB. Julv 5
noon (via London).?Tho total number
of prisoners taken thus far in ,?e
Anglo-!? rencl, ortonsivo probablv has
reached lj.000. Judging from these
figures, tho German losses as a whole
60,000. ?'?d "ere. have been at least
The Rrltlsh have taken eleven guns
7* <!,.?* H0'3; S,Ua11 m,m"or ca',tui'ed
Is duo to the fact that the Germans In
anticipation of the attack, withdrew
their guns to longer ranges.
It is reported by prisoners that tho
hasuiv"8 frar? Mendl,I|f 1,1 reserves
western ,ZZ. ?" ,h"
<nll for Itank Statement*.
WASHINGTON'. .??!> .'..-The
?roller of ?,o Currency to-,lay issued
a call for the condition of all national
hanks .,t the close of business Fri
day, Juno Jo.
PARLEYS BETWEEN
Washington Expects This to
Be Next Step in Mexi
can Situation.
NO FORMAL COMMENT
MADE BY OFFICIALS
! President, After Studying Reply,
Will Determine Course
to Be Pursued.
LANSING PLANS LONG VACATION
: State Department Satisfied With Defi
nition of Matters as Outlined
in C'ominiiniration.
Part of National Guard
to Be Sent Into Mexico
COM lint S. N. M.. July I?art.?i
of tlic >1 ii nvnclin<p( i.h tuiil Xpw Moi
li'ii \nlloniil ?.u:ir?l orKnnlr.ntloitN
nioli i I i/.eil lifrc will l?o Ncnt into
Mcili'n within flu* nr.\t frw (lnyii
to iitt.slmf In KlinriliiiK (.onernl l*crnh
Iiik'm line of com in un (out Ion. Tills
wiin iinnouiieril ollichilly lit military
headquarters here lute to-day.
WASHINGTON, .1 uly ,r?.?Early re
sumption of friendly diplomatic con
versations with the do facto govern
ment of Mexico to the end that peace
! and order may he restored in Northern
I .Mexico and along the border, is ex
! peeled litre to be the next step of the
i United States in its relations with its
southern neighbor.
The crisis precipitated by Villa's raid
on Columbus. N. M., and culminating in
the fight at C'arrizal, Mex., between
American and Mexican troops, appeared
to-night to have been dissipated by an
amicable note from General Carranza
presented during the day by his am
. bassador-deslgnate here.
| The note proposes that the dlffer
! ences between the governments be set
tled by mediation or direct negoti
ations. It is remarkable for Its brev
ity, its restrained and friendly tone,
and f*>r the absolute lack of any of
i he strong, even insolent language
| which characterized the last two com
| munications from the de facto gov
i ernment. It treats as a closed inci
dent the exchange of unfriendly com
munications which brought war al
most within sight.
No formal comment on the note was
| obtainable from State Department of
j tlcials. A copy was forwarded to the
I White House immediately on Its re
j celpt, and President Wilson will de
I termlne the course to he pursued. Sec
j retary Lansing to-day completed his
! preparations for a month's vacation to
| begin on Friday, and this is believed
| to indicate a feeling on his part that
tho crisis Is over.
MAY DEAL DIHKCTLY WITT!
CARRAXZA GOVERNMENT
As a matter of general principle,
the Washington government always has
favored mediation of any dispute suit
able for such procedure. There Is
every indication, however, that !n tho
present Instance it will bo deemed de
sirable to conduct forthcoming nego
i tiatlons directly with the Carranza
I government.
Members of tho Latin-American dip
lomatic corps are expected to make in
I <iuiry soon as to the attitude of the
Washington government, in view of tho
statement of tho Mexican Foreign Of
fice that it awaits only a decision here
as to whether mediations or direct ne
gotiations would be preferable. Indi
cations to-night were that the Inquiries
would be met with assurances that
the two governments had reached the
stage where they would not find It
necessary to call upon the friendly ser
vices of their neighbor States.
It is not known whether a formal
reply to General Carranza's noto Is
; contemplated. Diplomatic usage does
not call for one. and many ofllcials feel
that more can be accomplished through
informal discussion between Mr. Ar
redondo and Counselor Polk, who will
act as secretary In Mr. Lansing's ab
sence. It is understood Mr. Arredon
do plans to call at the department to
morrow to say good-by to Secretary
Lansing before the lutter's departure.
Probably the preliminary steps neces
sary for the Inauguration of tho In
formal discussion will bo taken then.
KVMREI.V SATISFIED WITH
DEFINITION Or MATTERS
State Department oflicials appeared
entirely satisfied with tho definition of
the matters to be settled outlined In
tho new Mexican note. It is presented
in this language, as translated at the
embassy:
"Tho American government believes,
reasonably, that tho insecurity of Its
frontier Is a source difficulty, and tho
| Mexican government on its part be
| lieves that the stay of troops on Mox
lean territory, aside from being %
trespass on the sovereignty of Mexico,
Is the Immediate cause of the conflicts
Therefore, the withdrawal of American v
tloops on tho one hand and protection
[ of thu frontier on tho other arc th?
