1.
THE AFTZONA HI
AN INDtfcmDENT PROGRESSBVE 40URIMAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEA I?
14 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY iMORNINd, JULY G, 1916
H PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 49
5PTJB
French Take Entire German Second .Position South
OFGEHMAH POSITIONS FALL
HIS OF MID
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The entire second position of the Germans south of the Somme, over
an extent of approximately six miles, has fallen into the hands of the
French who have also captured the village of Hem, near the northern ex
tremity of their line, and have completed their conquest of Estrees.
The British line his aparently fai led to advance except slightly in cer
tain sections, as the British war office puts it. None of the ground
rained by the British has been lost, however, and the further statement
cf the British that the fighting all along the battle front was mostly in
the nature of local struggles for the possession of strong points would
se;m to indicate that er.;h side is devoting particular attention to the
organization of its positions and the strengthening of its hand, for fur
ther attack or defense.
The number cf German prisoners report-id hy the British and French
has reached about 16,000, while the German casualties have been unof
ficially estimated at 60,000. On their part, the Germans report the tak
ing of '"a considerable number of British soh'iers.
Comparative quiet for the time being, has settled over Verdun, al
though the bombardments of necessit y continue. But while the respite is
on at Verdun, the Germans have opened a new attack on the French
lines, rear the Lorraine frontier some miles to the east of Luneville. They
delivered strong assaults against the French trenches in this sector and
entered them at three points, only t a be driven out shortly afterwards.
A success of the first important is reported by the Russians who
claim to have cut the railroad running from Lemberg, the caoital of
Galicia, to Delatyn. This is the main line of communication for the Aus
tro Germans, defending Lemberg, and allied military critics have insisted
that the cutting of this railroad would eomoel the central powers forces
to fall back on a wide front and pla:e Lemberg in imminent peril.
The Russian war office, in a late communication also claims the
route of the enemy forces on the ri ght bank of the Dniester.
The views expressed in Berlin respecting the Anglo-French offensive
reflect confidence on the part of the Germans thr.t the German line will
holr! and t-iat German control of the territory now occupied in France
and Belgium will remain steadfast. The successes so far attained by the
French and British are looked upon ?s of minor importance.
Rumania has again come into the light, and talk has been revived of
the possible entrance into the European war of that country.
Dispatches tell of the recent de-.ision of the two strong opposing
factions in the Rumanian political ar-na, to act together hereafter. Their
rMitude is said to be in favor of intervention on the side of the entente
allies.
Constantinople officially reports hat the Russians have been driven
out of Kehmarshas in western Persia, while the Russians claim to have
hrokrn the Turkish line east of Ba biurt.
The number of Russian prisoners
in the month of June,' r.-jcordina to
ticrln, reachec. more than 23,000 men.
French Making
More Progress
Than the British
1 Renubl'can A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July The French con
tinue to make more t progress than
the liritish on the western front, ow
ing psirt.lv to the more difficult ground
facing the British and also to the fact
tint stronger forces are .ipposing
iheni, because of the belief amw?
the Germans that the main attack in
the present operations will be on tti
Pritish front.
I r t. despite their slower prioress,
tlv itritish are successfully I eating
lack heavy Get man counlcr attacks
(Continued on Page Eight)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
MERLIN, July 5 (via London). In j
view of the fact that the inilial attack j
of every offensive is hardest to with- I
stand, owing to the unavoidable effect !
of surprise, with superior masses of
troops and accumulated ammunition,
the military critics here are unanimous
in considering that the great offensive
in the west has made a showing which
cannot encourage Germany's opponents.
Major Moraht, in the Tageblatt, calls
the Anglo-French successes "very
scanty." He writes:
"The critical moment for the success
of a great attempt to breach a line is
the time between the beginning of the
enemy infantry attacks and of the
counter attacks, which the defenders
are able to make, after concentrating
their forces. The enemy's success in
the four days' offensive, from this view
point, Ik very small. The enemy suc
ceeded in overrunning the demolished
German first trenches in several places
with heavy forces. The resistance
could not be great because little except
dead remained in the plowed up trench
es. Where the Germans stood on the
defensive stubborn fighting occurred,
and as the enemy reports the Germans
fought obstinately to the last man.
"At other points the German leaders,
with cool deliberation, and with troops
well In hand, bent back elastically.
These counter tactics involved the en
emy in embarrassment, as he was un
able to impart the finishing stroke to
the defenders with the first drum fire:
he had to begin anew, with artillery
preparation or attack the unwearied
defenders as an ay ernative. The re
ports of the offensive must prove di
rectly discouraging to the attacking
forces,
GERMANS MINIMIZE ENTENTE
ALLIES' SOCGESSES IN 1ST
captured south of the Pripet river j
the statement from Vienna by way of
French Carry
Second German
Lines Near Somme
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, July 3. The Trench have
carried by assault, the second German
lines on a front of two kilometers from
the Clery-Maricourt road to the river
Somme. They have also captured the
village Hem, in the same district, ac
cording to the official statement is
ued by the French war office tonight.
The French have captured all the
German second positions south of the
Somme on a front of about ten kilo
meters. They have also completed the
occupation of the village of Estrees,
(Continued on Page Three)
"Paris heard the cannon thunder as
in 1914. For let it again be said, that
the operative efficiency of the attack
ing British army is inadequate to break
all our rows of lines which have been
most thoroughly concentrated and ex-
pel us from r ranee and Belgium.
The Morgen Post critic says that
the latest reports show that the liritish
and French are gaining no ground, but
that the central powers have mad9
?ains in Volhynia and south of the
Dniester.
Other comments follow the same
lines, absolute confidence being placed
that the entente allies are unable to
menace the German lines anywhere.
To Have Progressives On
Hughes Campaign Committee
1 Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
NEW YORK, July 5. Charles E.
Hughes, here on a two days' trip from
his summer home at Bridgehampton,
today, approved the proposal of his ad-
visors to have a liberal representation
or me progressive pariy on nis cam- outlined his proposed program provid
paign committee. This committee vir- irtg for the opening of the campaign
tually will have entire charge of the
campaign.
The tentative program calls for a
committee of seventeen of whom ten
will be members of the executive com
mittee of the republican national com
mittee. Of the remaining seven, prob
ably five will be progressive leaders.
The personnel of both the executive
committee and the campaign commit,-
I GERMANS TAKE MANY
I RUSSIAN PRISONERS
J BERLIN, July,, 5 (by wireless
to Sayville). A total of l.",8 Itus-
tdan officers and 22,'i37t men wore
I taken prisoner during the month
of Juno, along the line to the
t south of the Fripet, where the
! Russians were pushing their of
I fensive, according to the Austio-
Hungarian statement of July 1,
! received here from Vienna.
1,1,1 IS
PROPOSED li
fit I BILL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 5. The ad
ministration's general revenue hill, de
signed to produce ahout $200,000,000 of
additional revenue from increased stir
tax on incomes and from taxes on in
heritances and war munitions profits
was favorably reported today by the
house ways and means committee and
probably will be passed by the house
Monday.
Two republican members of the com
mittee, Longwnrth of Ohio, and Gard
ner of Massachusetts, voted with the
democrats for a favorable report but
reserved the right to express during
debate in the house, their objections to
the method of the majority in framing
the measure. Two other republican
committeemen, Green of Iowa and
Sloan of Nebraska, while they voted
against reporting the bill, gave notice
I that they expected to support it on the
final roll call.
General debate is expected to begin
Thursday under a special rule provid
ing for a final vote before adjournment
Monday. That plan r,as definitely
agreed upon during the day by house
leaders.
The committee report says that the
necessit V fnr revenue leirislM t Ion "flows
ut of the necessary increase in appro-
priations for the army and navy and
fortification of our country."
The financial situation is summarized
in this way:
Estimated excess of disbursements
over receipts of the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1917, $26(1,922.000; additional
receipts under the proposed bill, in
come tax $1()7,000.0"0; estate tax, $17,
000,000 (and it is estimated that the
annual receipts obtained from the es
tate tax will amount to $.",4,000,000,
when the law is in full operation):
munition manufacturers' tax. $17,00n,
000; miscellaneous taxes $2,000,000. To
tal additional receipts $197,000,000.
Balance to be taken from general fund
$69,922,000.
"Fortunately the balance in the gen
eral fund June 30, 1916, was much
larger than at the end of any fiscal
year since 190S. After deducting $"i!i,
000,000 for disbursing officers' bal
ances, there remained in this fund over
$127,000,000. After deducting $69,922,
000 from this fund, as above, there will
still remain June 30, 191 in the general
fund over $100,000,000, exclusive of the
disbursing officers' balances. It is es
timated that the total appropriation for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917,
will not exceed $1,079,000,000. This in
cludes $123,000,000 to meet the extraor
dinary expenses or disbursements oc
casioned by the Mexican situation. This,
and any other appropriations that may
be necessary to meet the abnormal and
extraordinary expenses which may be
incurred on such account should be
financed by bond issues, as is always
done by this and all other nations under
similar circumstances.
"In estimating the actual disburse
ments, it is proper to deduct the sink
ing fund requirement included in the
oermanent appropriations at $60,725, 000
for the fiscal year 1917, and also the
postal appropriations estimated at
324,723,000 payable from the postal
revenues. It Is also safe to deduct as
unexpended, an equivalent to five per
cent of the total estimated appropria
tions remaining after these deduc
tions. Deducting the sinking fund and
postal appropriations and the five per
cent of the balance as unexpended and
the estimated $12.ri,000,000 of bonds to
(Continued on Page Three!
pee probably will be announced within
j t he next few days, as well as the selec-
I tion of a treasurer and a secretary of
the national committee.
, In a long conference with Chairman
j William R. Willcox, Mr. Hughes also
with a five weeks' trip to the Pacific
cuast, beginning early in August. Mr.
i Willcox and other party leaders en-
! dorsed the idea, and it is likely that it
will be definitely adopted,
The nominee spent a busy day
conference with many callers. He also
had another long talk tonight with Mr.
tomorrow afternoon to .Bridgehampton..
IHMT DEFENSE
BLOffi
t Republican A. P. Lea;eti Wire
W A I" K KG AN, 111., July 5 The con
testants of the prosecution in the case
of Wm. 11. (irpet, college student.
charged with the murder of lS-year-old
Marion Lambert, that cyanide of
potassium in solution, caused her death
was dea't several blows today by Dr.
J. A. Wesener, a chemist and toxicnlo
gist. The very root of the two theories
to Marion's dentil is involved in the
question whether a supersaturate of
the poison was used, or whether it was
taken in solid or powdered form. If a
solution, the state contends that mur
der was committed, as no container
was found after the tragedy, leaving
only the explanation that Orpet took
it away with him. The powdered poi
son, however, could have been tarried
by the girl in a paper, and numerous
natural causes would account for its
disappearance.
Dr. Wesener gave a wealth of rea
sons for his theory that the cyanide
was taken in powdered form.
He asserted also, in reply to a hy
pothecal question that the cyanide
available to young ( irpet in the green
house over' which the defendant's
father has charge, was so much weaker
than that found in the girl's stomach
that no combination of circumstances
could have increased it to the strength
of that which caused death.
Chemists for the state sometime ago
testified that the three white spots
left on Marion's green outer coat were
caused by a solution of the poison.
The depth to which the residue was
imlcdded in the fabric and the circu
lar shape of the soots were . pointed
out as proving this theii.y.
"These spots," said Dr. Wesener to
day, could not have been made by a
supersaturate. I have experimented and
found that the drops would not stay
on the fabric at all, but would roll
off like globules of mercury, or drops
of water on a hot stove."
Witnesses asserted that the same
was true of the stains on Marion's
hand, they could have been left there
only by a moist powder. A supersat
urate, he said, would have rolled off
as it would have from the coat. It
would have left no mark, he said.
The theory of the defense as to jus1
how the poison was taken, developed
(Continued on Page Three!
r
LT
PPOEE REFUSAL OF
FOUR TO TAKE OATH
! COI.'.'MP.rs. N. M., Julv r,. In- I
I vest igati 'ti of four members of '
I Ox N..nv Mexico National C.iard
! who recently refus"d to take oath
! thct v.ould muster them into the
j I'n'ted States urmv was begun :
tndav ov "'apt. I ouis .1. Van ;
I Scliaii k, )r.e intelligence officer, j
' II was as-"rted Ihat it. is possible I
! the n:en mav be tried by court- '
martial. A Mexican who called at ,
ihe 1- c il i-ostoftice tonight for
I mail adlretsel to the .Mexican !
commander at Guzman V" miles !
I s-outh f hero on 111" Mexico I
! Xo'tlv.vertem railway, was ,ir- I
I res'ed, it being suspected that he !
bad been collecting information !
! as to movemcn';' of American j
trooos. Later, however, he was '
I released. '
p
To Preserve Good
Relations Along
Arizona Border
f Keoubiican A. P. Leased Wire
DCFGLAS. Ariz.. July General
P. Flias i 'a lief, military cornmande'
in Sonorn, issued i. statement through
Consul Ives C. Ldevier here today
that he intended to preserve the best
possible relations between Mexicar.i
a
lid Americans along th" Arizona-So-
nora boundary, and would co-operate
tviih the Amu icin" authorities to that
TOPIS Til
end. militia.
He also announced that he had sent j Stone es,a ed from the guard
p. de-criotion of the Mexicans sus- j house of the Arizona miliu.'t curaii, a
pected of killing William Parker ami j short distance north of the boundary,
his young wife at the Double Adobe He was being held on a charee of de
liinch, r,3 mile:; socthwest of Huchita. wrtion, having been arrested a few
N. i., June 27, to the military au-' !' a ST".
thorities in Cihuahoa, where they ar The private ran toward Agua Pri
thcught to bo at present. General ' Pt:i, the Mexican town ooposite here,
r'alle;: i?id he will turn the prisoners ! number of soldiers in pursuit. As
over to American, official to he tried
Tor murder.
Genera! Calles stated General Juan
Cabril. General Francisco Sosa, Ma
jor Frederico Piatt and other "reac
tionaries" as he terrred them had
offered th'ir services to the Mexican
government through him before go
ing to Juarez. Calles added dhat h-
took the responsibility of refusing
Ihem permission to re-enter the coun
try. They did i.ot accept his refusal
,,'is fi.ial. going to Juarez and offericr
thfir services to General Treviuo.
who also refii.'-.'d to receive their al-lcgiunce.
MEXICAN GOVERNMENT
FOR MEDIATION PLAN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 5. The text of
the Mexican note as transmitted by
Klis.eo Arrcdondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate,
follows:
"Washington, D. C, July 4, lMlti.
"Mr. Secretary:
"I have the honor to transmit in con
tinuation the text of a note 1 have just
received from my government with in
structions to present it to your excel
lency :
" 'Mr. Secretary:
" 'Referring to the notes of June 20
and 25 last, 1 have the honor to say
to your excellency that the immediate
release of the Carrizal prisoners was a
further proof of the sincerity of the
desires of this government to reach a
pacific and satisfactory arrangement of
present difficulties. This-Kovernment
is anxious to solve the present conflict
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
N "GALES, Ariz., July 3. With the
scheduled arrival tonight nad early
tomorrow of ihe Fifth and Seventh
California infantry regiments, more
than S.ooii troops, including infantry,
eav.ilrv, field artillery and field am
bulance corps under command of
Colonel W. II. Sage of the 12th
I'nited States infantry, will be on
station here. It is al:o nndersttod
that Brigadier General Robert Wan
l.owski. of the California National
Guard, will arrive here tomorrow to I
establish brigade headquarters. The'
first battalion of the Fifth California j
reached here today under command
of Lieutenant 'olonel L. C. Fancis,
with 16 off ers and 321 men.
Two regments of Connecticut infan
try, a squadron of California cavalry
and the Second California
infantry
settled down to camp
routine today.
drilling under sergeants from United
States regulars.
Mexican troops
retortr-d tonight,
in
Sonora. it was
ontinued their'
(Continued on Page Three)
THOUSANDS OF TRY TO AMBUSH
TROOPS NOW ON IE PITOOL
izoioon near HERO
I
I
!
BRING BODIES BACK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PAS'), July 5. The bodies of
Canta'n Charley T. Boyd. Lieutenant
i,..,,.v Adair and seven troopers who
f-;l wit'' them at Carri.tal were
br-iiig'it l i Juarez shortly l.t 'ore tnid
night torieiit aboard a specUl train
llnpi Villa Ahmnada. ;enil I'.e'ir.ge
Pell, Jr.. eotnmandiipr the F.I Paso
; nil it :i district, announced that V-j
had .'-Tranced for the tram o-'-ai nig
them to cross Hie river to El Paso
loruoiiow morning.
Miliiary lists indicate that foorteei
of the mill who composed !e Ten'.h
cavalry command, engaged at C:i"
nzal. were r-ii.ssing. However, the
patty of American undertaker! wno
DESERTER
I Renublican A. P. Leased Wire
i.)i)''GLAS, Ariz., July Unite I
Slates soldiers if the border patrol
here made their firs. ros.siiig into
Mexico territory late today, but re
turned to the Arizona side in a few
I minutes.
The soUiiers crossed the
i Hoe in
pursuit of private Edward
a deserter from the Arizona
' ' i tie
, he eiosse.l the international line res-
ular soldieis en patrol duty joinet'.
the chase. A number of shot. wert 1
fired at Stone, who was captured j
after he had penetrated approxi- i
match- Talo vards into Sonora. i
The (.hooting created some excite-j
moot on both sides ;f the line for i
several minutes. Store was returned
to the guard house.
No additional national gnardsmer
arrived during the day ;it camp Fred
erick Fnnston. the tiew military cimp
northwest cf Douglas. The New Jer
sey militiamen were busily engage.'
arranging equipment, drilling and
0UARDS1 ZONA
Of Somme
i
and it would be unjust if its attitude
were misinterpreted.
" 'It was also the Mexican govern
ment that earnestly suggested a plan
for cantonments along tfie boundary
i line during the conferences at Ciudad
1, ..n.l 1.-1 T...... rr-i.;,.
'. , .'-.. Buve.omein. ,
is disposed now ,as it has always been, j
a" """'eumie soiuuon 01 me i
two points which constitute the true
cause of the conflict between the two
countries, to wit: the American gov
ernment thinks reasonably that the in
security of its frontier is a source of
difficulty and the Mexican govern
ment on its part believes that the stay
of American troops on Mexican terri
tory aside from being a trespass on the
sovereignty of Mexico is the immediate
cause of the conflicts. Therefore the
withdrawal of American troops on one
(Continued on Page Three)
r.anut''Can A. P. Lra-cd Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, C )L -NIA
DCBLAX, Chia, July 2. (Via
motor courier to Columbus, N. M.,
July '.) Three hundred Carrancista
cavalrymen attempted to ambush a
scouting patrol of 20 American caval
rymen north of Guerrero recently and
only by skillful maneuvering did the
American commander save his detach
ment, it was learned here today. The
incident occurred shortly after Gen
eral Trevtno notified General Pershing
he would regard any movement of
American troops other than northward
as hostile.
ine s lers, a oetarnmenl oi tni -
Seventh cavalry under Lieutenant Hor-
ace M. Hickam. were on a scouting j
patrol in search of bandits believed
to
have had their rendezvous in a
zinc
mine about 3" miles from the
American base. Not finding any hand
I its they started l ack and had turned
into the main road, the entrance to a
canyon, when three Mexicans, halt a
mile to the south, opened fire. Imme-
(Continued on Page Three)
' xhumed the bodies reported that de- j act as secretary in Mr. Lansing's ab
spite tijo co-operation of the Carry n- i sence, than could be hoped for in any
cista authorities, thev were -i Me only j other way. It is understood Mr. Arre
n find the nine bodies buried near j dondo plans to call at the department
the iiattlefield. The nnm.es of th
tro..per:- whose bodies were recovered
were n t made pnbli" touisht, mili
taiv authorities being unai.L to de
(ermine identity definitely before the
niorn;ng.
Hopes were expressed ti nt some of
the five soldiers who are yet missing
mav be alive, perhaps lying wounded
in some isolated Mexican hut
military headquarters, however
At
be -
lief was expressed that nost f them
must have died in the desert in attempt-:'
to make their way bat k to
the Ami ricar- lir-es.
OVER THE BORDER
I visiting the
medical officers to have
their arms vaccinated during the trip
to th" Isirder.
American mining men who came to
the border from the interior of So
nora mining compaoios slated they
probably will resume operations
shortly, but said their chief difficulty
w. aid oe the obtaining of blasting
powder. Efforts likelv will be made, j
if w:is urirltiri to m,i.u:i, irfirmiuilntl
from ihe UnitJrl Kta.es government ,
export a. limited amount of dvnamite'
into Sonora for the mine-.
APPLICATION FOR
RED CROSS
Phoenix Chapter, American National
Care Harry Welch, Chamber
Pjioenix, Ariz.
Herewith, I make application
American National Red Cross. I
the first year's enrollment fee.
(Signed)
Julv
1916.
(Address)
j
V
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 5. Early re
sumption of friendly diplomatic rela
tions with the de facto government
if rnvinn 1 3 Ui 1
....... (.v
or,ier may be rest0red in Northern
Mexico and along the border, is cx-
nected hero tn V.e
the next step of
the United States, in its relations with
its southern neighbor. The crisis pre
cipitated by Villa's raid on Columbus.
N. M., and culminating in the fight
at Carrizal, Mex., between American
and Mexican troops, appeared tonight
to have been dissipated by an amic
able note from General Carranza, pre
sented during the day by his ambassador-designate
here, Eliseo Arre
dondo. The note proposes that the dif
ferences between the governments be
settled by mediation or by direct nego
tiations. It is remarkable for its brev
ity, its restrained and friendly tone,
and for the absolute lack of any of
the strong, even insolent language which
characterized the last two communi
cations from the de facto government.
It treats as a closed incident, the ex
change of unfriendly communications,
which brought war almost within sight.
No formal comment on the note was
obtainable from state department of
ficials. A copy was forwarded to the
Wh'te House immediately on its re
ceipt and President Wilson will de
termine on the course to be pursued.
The fact that Secretary Lansing com
peted preparations today for a month's
vacation to begin Friday, is regarded
as significant, however, of a feeling
on his part that the crisis is over.
As a matter of general principle, the
Washington government always has
f wi red mediation of any dispute suit
able for such procedure. There is every
indication, however, that in the pres-
I ent instance it will be deemed de
I sii.ible to conduct forthcoming nego
tiations directly with the Carranza gov
j e: nment.
Members of the Latin-American dip
' iomatic corps here are expected to
i make inquiries soon, as to the atti
tude of the Washington government in
1 vjfw ti,e statement Of the Mexican
foreign office that it awaits only a
decision here, as to wether mediation
or direct negotiations would be pref
erable. Indications tonight were that
the inquiries would be met with as
surances that the two governments
had reached a stage where they would
not find it necessary to call upon the
frj,.n(Hy services
of their neighlsir
I states.
It is not known whether a forma!
-! reply to General Carranza's note is
I contemplated. Diplomatic usage does
I not call for one, and many officials feel
i that more can be accomplished through
infomal discussion between Mr. Arre-
i dondo and Counsellor Polk
who will
tomorrow, to say good -bye to Sec
retary Lansing liefore his departure
for his vacation. Probably the prelim
inary steps necessary for the inaugu
ration of the informal discussion will
be taken then. State department offi
cials appeared entirely satisfied with
the definition of the matters to be set
tled outlined in t'.ie new Mexican note.
It is presented in this language, as
j translated at the embassy:
The American government believes.
reasonably, that the insurity of its
frontier is a source of difficulty, and
the Mexican government on its part
believes that the stay of American
troops on Mexican territory, aside from
being a trespass on the soveignty, of
Mexico, is the immediate cause of the
conflicts. Therefore, the withdrawal of
American troops on the one hand, and
the protection of the frontier on the
other, are the two essential problems,
the solution of which must be the di
recting object of the efforts of both
governments."
Coupled with this definition, is an
outline of a sort of military status quo,
beyond the border, which the de facto
government suggests as a substitute
for its previous demands for immediate
withdrawal of the American troops. It
is stated as follows:
"In the meantime," (pending media
tion or direct negotiation) "this gov
ernment proposes to employ all effort
that may be at its disposal to avoid
recurrence of new incidents which may
I '
I complicate and aggravate the situa-
I tion. At the same time, it hopes that
(Continued on Page Seven)
MEMBERSHIP
Red Cross, ,
of Commerce.
for membership in the Phoenix Chapter,
enclose One Dollar (11.00) as payment of
CRISIS
SEEMS
dis or
GARRANZA NT
