I . •" ■■ ■ 1
Allied A I'm ics Continue Unchecked to Hammer Way Through German Lines
HARRISBURG fiSHi TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 154
PRESIDENT WILL
ACCEPT PROPOSAL
OFGEN.CARRANZA
Wilson to Meet Suggestion
That Differences Be Settled
by Direct Negotiations
REPLY WILL GO SOON
No Change in Policy Is Now
Contemplated; Will Not
Withdraw
By Associated I'ws.r
Washington, D. C., July 6.—Formal
acceptance of General Carranza's pro
posal that differences between the
United States and the de facto govern
ment of Mexico be settled by direct
negotiations will be dispatched soon to
Mexico City. This was decided by
President Wilson to-day at a confer
ence with Secretary Lansing.
The Mexican note delivered yester
day said the <ie facto government had
accepted in principle
offers of mediation, but was awaiting
information as to whether the United
States believed the desired results
would be accomplished by direct ex
changes between the two governments.
Secretary Lansing will leave to-mor
row for a month's vacation. It was
not stated to-day whether he would
prepare the reply to Mexico before his
departure, but indications are that it
will go forward within a day or two at
most.
The Secretary will be in direct touch
by telegraph and telephone with the
White House and State Department
during liis absence, but informal con
versations with Eliseo Arredondo,
Mexican ambassador designate, which
it is hoped will develop a solution of
the difficulties along the Mexican bor
[Continucd on Pago fl]
Field Headquarters Are
Compact and Prepared
By Associated Press
Field Headquarters, Colonia Dublan,
Chihuahua, June 29, via army motor
truck to Columbus, N. M., July 6.
Compact, prepared and unostentatious
is the American field headquarters
camp in Mexico.
A walk through it showed no evi
dence of the hurry, the curt commands
of. military stiffness, sometimes asso
ciated with an army ready for action.
Instead there was ease about men and
animals sprawling around canip with
the comfort of perfect health, each
man knowing his duties so well that
half an hour's warning would be suffi
cient to empty the great camp and
change it into an army on the march.
In the heart of the camp, rows of
huge gray motor trucks were parked.
About them, men crouched .in the
shade of the big bodies, their olive
drab clothing stained beyond washing,
with road dust. On the steering
wheels hung brilliant red, green and
blue handkerchiefs, just washed and
drying. These were the head sear of
the truck drivers, who have learned
tljat they cannot hope to protect more
than their head and their mouths from
the dust clouds.
Orderly lines marked the camp of
the pack and wagon trains. The driv
ers were giving the animals the most
careful attention, for they realize that
frequently upon the training and mus
cle of such mules may depend the lives
of soldiers in campaigns, especially as
here in Mexico, where supplies have
been outrun by the fighting columns.
THE WEATHER
For HarrUburg and vicinity: Fnlr
to-night unci Friday; somewhat
warmer Friday.
FOP Eastern Feiuiny Ivuniu: Fair to
night mid Friday) slight ly
warmer Friday; gentle shifting
Winds.
B Iver
The Susquehanna river and prob
ably all Us brunches Mill con
tinue to full slowly. V stage of
nbout 4.1 feet is Indicuted for
HarriMliurg Friday morning.
Generiil Conditions
The tropical storm is now central
near the month of the Mississippi
river and IN apparently moving
slowly northwaril with decreas
ing energy. The storm was severe
Wednesday oil the Alabama and
" est Florida coasts, where ex
cessive rains anil winds of hurri
cane velocity occurred. Kaln has
occurred generally in the South
Atlantic and East tiulf States,
and there were showers In New
Jersey nnd Eastern Xew York.
Elsewhere fair weather prevailed,
except In Northwest Texas, Mon
tiinn nnd Hrltlsh Columbia, w here
light showers fell.
Temperatures were high in the
southwest, Wedncnday afternoon,
with mn\inium readings exceed
ing 100 degrees in Southern \ri
aonn. and the majority or stations
report rises of 2 to 14 degrees in
the Inst twenty-four hours.
Tempernturei N n. m., OS.
Sun: Rises, 4:311 a. III.; sets, 7:83
p. m.
Moon: First <|unrter, .Itilv 8, tli.tn
n. m.
Klvcr stage: 4.2 feet above low
water ranrk.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 70.
I.owest temperature. 02.
Mean temperature, OR.
Normal temperature, 74.
At the Seashore or up in the
mountains, no matter where you
go to spend your vacation, the
HarriMburg Telegraph will be sure
to reach yon every day. Your
vacation will not be complete un
less your favorite newspaper
spends the time with you.
Drop a postal or call the Circu
lation Dept.
HV CARRIERS (t CENTS A WEEK.
SI>TiLE COIMES 2 CEXTS.
WANT TO GO TO
MEXICO? EIGHTH
NEEDS 200 MEN
Colonel Finney Appeals For
Recruits Through Columns
of Telegraph
EXAMS MAKE BIG HOLES
Ranks of Companies Depleted
by Failure of Many to
Pass Examinations
Through the columns of tlio
Telegraph Colonel Maurice E. Kin
ney, commander of Uie Kighth
Pennsyl\aniu Infantry, appeals to
the joung men of the city and
surrounding district who wish to
enlist for Mexican service to re
port to the recruiting oilleers at
Mount Gretna nt once. Some 200
vacancies are to be tilled.
If you had sought to-day for the
most keenly disappointed man in all
Harrisburg you might have found him
this morning: lingering about the tem
porary recruiting office in the City
Grays armory.
He was the slender, bronze-faced
young fellow who was always mightily
I eager to discuss the Mexican possi
bilities; he carried his right arm in
bandages, splint and a sling.
And if you inquired as to the reason
for his evident dose of the "blues" he
would probably have quietly held up
his bandaged arm.
"Turned me down—broken arm!"
would have been his quiet answer.
The story behind that simple story
is one of many little tales that some
eight or nine men of Company I and
[Continued on Page 6]
Saturday Half-Holiday
Proposed by Merchants
An important conference at which
j all the merchants and other business
j men of the city will be welcome will
| be held at the offices of the Chamber j
of Commerce in the Kunkel building
j at 12:30 o'clock Friday to consider a
proposition to change from Friday to
1
Saturday as the weekly half-holiday j
during the summer months.
It is proposed in this change to
j keep the stores open Friday evening
and until one o'clock Saturday, the j
thought being that the half-holiday!
'Saturday will be more desirable for,
the employes of the stores and busl- j
; ness places than the Friday half-holi- j
| day as lias been the custom hereto- ;
j fore.
Many prominent merchants have j
already agreed to the change from
Friday to Saturday.
High School Survey
Expert Here Monday
Expert survey of Harrisburg's high
school problem will begin Monday
with the arrival of Dr. John H. Van
Sickle, who has been selected by the
school board for the work.
Dr. Sickle will devote several weeks
to careful study of the conditions and
| will embody his findings and recom
; mendntions in a comprehensive report
jto the board before A ust 1. With
| this data in hand the .iirectors will
| prepare the campaign lor floating a
j loan in the Fall.
AUTO CRASHES OVER BANK
ON WALNUT STREET BRTDC :
W. Scott Coble, sor. of Justice of the !
j Peace, P. C. Coble, of Wormleysburg, !
! miraculously escaped serious injury I
last evening when the auto which he 1
j was driving skidded on the Walnut i
street bridge at Island park and '
crashed down a 20-foot embankment. |
The car was only slightly damaged. !
Mr. Coble, who is a member of the
Hershey band, was on his way to that I
place. He returned to Wormleysburg i
! and taking his father's machine again !
j started. Tho justice of the peace
I with several other men brought his
! son's car to Wormleysburg.
JOBLESS MEN, HERE'S WORK
Washington. July ti. The Depart- I
| nient of Labor is being deluged with
| requests for hands to harvest wheat in
j Western States. The division of infor- |
I mation, which is the government em-!
ployment agency, is engaged in tabu- !
Mating the requests, and will issue ai
statement to all branch ottices advising
'liem of the Macedonian cry from the!
Western wheat fields. Efforts will bet
made to get the wheat growers to pay!
ilhe transportation of harvesters. Many
of then) already have announced their
willingness to do so.
CHEAPER GASOLINE EXPECTED
Washington, July 6. Final report
of the Federal Trade Commission on
its investigation into the oil situation
in the United States probably will be i
completed within two weeks, Commis-'
sioner Harris said yesterday. He pre-
I dieted a reduction in the price of gas-'
joline. The investigation is credited 1
among government officials with a 1
large saving to the United States on!
: motor fuel oil. Three months ago the
Standard Oil Company ottered oil at
31% cents a gallon, but tho bid was
rejected. A contract has just been
closed at 23% cents a gallon.
BIG EIRE AT PITTSBURGH
Pittsburgh, July 6.—Fire in the
j downtown business district early to
day destroyed a number of small
buildings with a loss of $200,000. In
cluded in the structures burned was a
theatrical storehouse.
HARRISBURG, PA., THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 6, 1916.
WRITING TO THE GIRL HE LEFT BEHIND HIM
It's the sweetest part of the Guardsman's life at Mount Gretna —writing to the girl back home.
BURGLARS GET
RICH HAUL IN
CAMP HILL JOB
Take Silver Wedding Gifts,
Mileage, Valuable Violin,
Watch and Money
Two robberies in Camp Hill ap
parently by experienced burglars have
been added to the long list of places
entered in Harrisburg and vicinity
within the last few days.
Local sleuths however, believe that
a different gang of thieves made the
raidn in the West Shore town, than
is working in this city, because of the
big difference in tactics and the value
of the goods taken.
The Camp Hill homes entered were
those of Raymond M. Staley, Market
street, veterinary surgeon with the
State Livestock Sanitary Board and
Janie: C. Patterson, Market street,
assistant superintendent of Public
Giounds and Buildings at the Capitol.
At the Staley residence, entrance
was gained through a cellar window
after which the burglars picked the
lock to the door leading to the kitchen.
Sterling silver wedding gifts valued at
SIOO were taken together with a mile
age book. Plated silverware was left
untouched.
At the Patterson home, a valuable
violin, a watch and a small sum of
money were included in the haul. En
trance was sained through a window
on the first floor.
According to city detectives no new
thefts or attempted robberies have
been reported in the city during the
last twenty-four hours. Investigations
of the score of robberies of the last
week, are being continyed without ap
parent results.
174 BABIES DIE
DURING EPIDEMIC
Infantile Paralysis Continues
to Reap Toll of One an
Hour; Fear Spread
By Associated Press
New York, July fi.—The health de-
I partment announces to-day that in
! complete figures show that during the
| twenty-four hours preceding 9 o'clock
| this morning 21 children died of infan
! tile paralysis in the greater city.
This brings the toll of lives lost since
! the disease became an epidemic ten
> days ago to 174. Of the deaths since
j yesterday 21 occurred in Brooklyn.
[Continued on I*age 10]
Dr. Raunick Warns of
Infantile Paralysis Dangers
"Kill the flies and mosquitoes, and
screen your homes," said Dr. J. M. J.
Raunick, local health officer this after
noon. when asked how an epidemic of
infantile paralysis may be prevented.
Reference was made to the present epi
demic of this disease in New York, and
Dr. Raunick was asked how it could
be carried from city to city. He said:
"Flies and mosquitoes are the pests
that carry disease. Keep them out of
the homes, and there will be no danger
of infantile paralysis or any other dis
ease. spreading over the city. Kill
the llie« and mosquitoes. I do not
think Harrisburg is close enough to
New York to fear the spread of the
disease to this city It will not hurt to
take the necessary precaution, how
ever."
Administration's Ship
Bill Is in Bad Way
Washington, ul.v 6. The adminis
tration ship purchase bill, which pass
ed the House and is now in Senate
committee, is in a bad wayi The It£-
publlcan Senators backed by a strong
Democratic support have served no
tice on the friends of the bill that;
efforts to pass it at this session will!
probahly prolong the session "until j
snow flies."
The situation IK SO desperate from
the viewpoint of the friends of the bill
in the Senate that it led to the calling
of two party caucuses or conferences
of Senators.
EACH MONDAY TO
BE "DOLLAR DAY"
Watch the Telegraph Each
Saturday Night For Bargains
Merchants Will Offer
Monday of this week was the first of
a series of Dollar Day Mondays in
which a number of local merchants are
interested. Many of them have joined
in the movement inaugurated by the
Harrisburg Telegraph to set aside one
day of the week during which dollar
bargains will be the keynote.
This plan of merchandising has been
successfully used In other cities and
there is no reason why it cannot be
just as successfully employed here. The
movement was started last week and
many of the merchants who were not
ready at that time have signified their
intention of joining this week. The list
of Items advertised in the Telegraph
last Saturday night gives a pretty fair
conception of what the array will be
when all of the merchants who intend
to join in the movement offer their
goods also on Dollar "J>a.y.
Next Monday will Bit another dav of
dollar bargains, which will be adver
tised in Saturday's Telegraph.
GERMAN SAVINGS GROW
By Associated Press
The Hague, via London, July 6.
According to the Sparkasse, the organ
of the German Savings Bank, new sav
ings accounts during the second year
of the war have increased in Germany
as never before during times of peace.
Statistics from the big cities and the
industrial regions alone indicate an in
crease of 288,000 accounts and a total
of 6,280,000 accounts. The excess of
i deposits over withdrawals is 2,500,-
I 000,000 marks.
FEAR CALAMITY
AFTER HURRICANE
Loss of Life Believed Heavy;
I Coast Towns Cut Off; Ships
Torn Loose by Gale
Jacksonville, Fla., July fi. Fears
that the terrific hurricane which for
72 hours swept the Gulf of Mexico and
j then drove inland over the Alabama
J and Florida coast had caused a great
| catastrophe, grew hourly 10-day.
Efforts to get into communication
| [Continued on Page 10]
ASSERTS KAISER WEEPS
Paris, July 6.—The Kaiser has burst
| into tears several times recently, says
I the Petit Parisian. Intrigues showing
that things are not going well in Ger
many are one cause of his grief, the
newspaper asserts, and another is
that the big men of the Empire are
showing a disposition to abandon him.
"The story is not a mere sensational
invention," adds the newspaper. "The
tears would naturally be produced by
Germany's unfavorable situation."
EIGHT FOURTH OF JULY
DEATHS THROUGHOUT U. S.
Chicago, July ti. Eight deaths and
190 injuries from Fourth of July cele
brations throughout the country is the
toll of the Fourth, according to figures
compiled by the Chicago Tribune.
Last year there were nineteen persons
killed and 903 injured. Chicago's toll
was four injured, none seriously.
SEABOARD SHOP lIURNS
By Associated Press
Norfolk, Va., July fi.—Fire starting)
in the coach shed of the Seaboard
Air Line's shops here early to-day de
stroyed the shed and ten new passen
ger coaches. The loss is estimated at
SIOO,OOO. For a time the entire plant
was threatened.
CURSED FLAG, HIT AND JAILED
Lancaster, Pa., July 6.—Harvey
Shelley and John Wellsbrook were ar
raigned in the city police court yes
terday for fighting in the street. The
testimony showed that, during an ar
gument, Wellsbrook, of German de
scent, cursed the American, flag and
Shelley hit him. Magistrate Spurrier
discharged, Shelley and committed
Wellsbrook for 10 days.
CAVE-IN CAUSED
BY EARTHQUAKE
KILLS 300 MEN
Violent Tremors in Sicily Trap
Miners When Three Sulphur
Shafts Crumble
By Associated Press
London, July 6. —A violent earth
quake at Caltanlssetta, Sicily, causing
the deaths of nearly 300 persons, is re
ported in an Exchange Telegraph dis
patch from Rome. It is said the vic
tims were in three sulphur mines
which the earth shock caused to
cave in.
There have been several reports re
cently of seismic disturbances in Italy.
The volcano of Stromboli, on an island
off the north coast, of Sicily, has been
in eruption for several days, causing
the inhabitants of adjoining districts
to flee on relief ships sent from Mes
sina. Earth shocks occurred Tuesday
at Ancona, Remi, Belvedere, Mar
.timmo ami in other Adriatic districts,
but heretofore no loss of life has been
reported.
There have been a number of dis
astrous earthquakes in Italy, the last
serious one having occurred in 1908.
Most of the coast towns on both sides
of the straits of Messina were wholly
or partially destroyed with a loss of
life estimated at 75,000.
faltanissetta, capital of the Sicilian
province of that name, is a city of
more than 30,000 inhabitants.
WILL CONFER ON
DRAINAGE PLANS
Method by Which Water
Hushes From Cemetery to
Playgrounds in Dispute
The plan by which the water from
I flic western slopes of the Harris burg
I Cemetery is permitted to drain upon
j the Twelfth street playgrounds may
? eventually have to he settled in the
i Dauphin county courts.
The drainage, diverted as it now is
! by a system of walled-ln pipes, seri
ously menaces the recreation ground,
and the burial ground officials, it is
understood, have refused thus far to
change the method.
The nearest approach to an agree
rContinued on Pago 10]
Methodist Papers Are
Forced to Raise Price
A call has gone out to local commit
j tees of Methodists in New York,
Cincinnati and Chicago to meet Meth
odist Book Concern publishing agents
| in Chicago and take up the matter of
prices of Christian Advocates and
j books, the former now published at
financial loss, and tho latter likely to
be because of the big advance in the
, prices of paper. The New York agent.
Dr. E. R. Graham, satd:
j .'I do not see how it is going to be
| posslbe to avoid advance in subscrip
tion prices of our Christian Advocates
I and some of our books. In the case
|of the Advocates the advance may
j make losses even greater than they are
i now. I cannot tell. The judgment is
that some changes must be made."
The American Bible Society reports
I increasing difficulties in getting Bibles
from the British a<nd Foreign Society
of London, especially those published
in languages other than English. It I
is admitted that unless things improv- i
ed tne society will be seriously ham- 1
pered in its work.
The society also reports itself un
able to procure paper at any price in
quantities needed.
BREAKS BACK IN FALL
York, Pa., July 6. .While assisting i
her husbar 1 In the harvest Held yes
terday, Mrs. rharles Hoover, 4 5 f e n j
from a load of hay and received a
broken back. Mr. Hoover pitched the
hay while his wife arranged It on the
waeon.
16 PAGES
ALLIES THREATEN
CRUCIAL POSITIONS
IN GERMAN DEFENSE
French Strongly Fortify Line of Captured Trenches While
British Pound Their Way Forward in Vicinity of
Thiepval; Peronne in Imminent Danger of Capture
76 CANNON AND SEVERAL HUNDRED
MACHINE GUNS TAKEN IN OFFENSIVE
Russians Scoring Important Successes Against Austrians;
Cut Railway Leading South From Delatyn; Moving
Towards Korosmezo, Hungary; Control Main Line of
Austro-Hungarian Retreat; Route Force on Dniester
After capturing second line German positions along a six-mile
front south of the Somme in Northern France and making notable
advances north of that stream, the French last night temporarily
halted the offensive operations of their infantry.
Hard fighting continued along the line of the British attack and
a slight advance was scored by General Haig's forces in the vicinitA
of Thiepval.
The French push to the south of the river now threaten
Barleux and Villers-Carbonnel, crucial positions in the Gerinai
defense of the railway center at Peronne.
On the other bank of the river the French are striking east c
the village of Hem, which they captured yesterday. Local engage
ments are reported in this region, wooded districts changing hands,
but no substantial progress being reported on either side.
Paris announces the capture by the French in their offensive o :
seventy-six cannon and several hundred machine guns. The situ
ation before Verdun was comparatively quiet, no infantry attack
occurring during the night.
In Galicia the Russians continue to score marked sikcesse>
After cutting the railway leading south from Delatyn they hav<
advanced down the line towards Korosmezo, Hungary, and hav.
taken the village of Mikoupchine, a half way point on the route fron
Delatyn. This road is a main line of retreat to Hungary for th
Austro-Hungarian forces in this region.
[Continued on Papr «]
—«ww—_/"
I * John Rupp, who resides near Rockville, was fined J
$5 this afternodn at police court for speeding his automo- I
J » bile on North Front street. |F s
, GENERAL HUTCHISON WORSE |
J I Chambersburg, Pa.. July 6.—The condition of General f
Joseph B. Hutchison, who is ill at the home of a relative f
, | in this place, was reported to-day as very grave.
: FOOD RIOTS IN MEXICO $
I ! •;
i Field Haedquarters, Mexico, July 5, via Radio to Co- rtj
lumbus, N. M., July 6.—Starving Mexican women shouting J
"viva Gringoes" have stormed the government palace at
* San Luis Potosi, according to reports received to-day by J
General Pershing. Food riots, the reports to the American 1
> ( 9 commander said arc occurring in all the larger Mexican ?
cities. I
| I El Paso, July 6.—Persons arriving here to-day sa l iu j k
! , they had heard that Villa was in command of the force
| I which defeated the Carranza troops at Corral, and that ■ ►
( moving on to Jiminez, he had captured the city. 1 >
( * tr: *■ ■ 1 \
CAVALRY MOVES TO-NIGHT
< 1 Mt. Gretna, Pa.. July 6.—The cavalry will move toward '
: the border to-night, probably by way of Philadelphia, with ;
! I » the Governor's Troop occupying the third or fourth train. ' *
An order may change the route by way of Harrisburg, but
it is not likely. The troop has 97 men and three officers. • *
J I They were mustered in today by Captain Castleman, U. S. >
A. Company D has 102 men and three officers, and Com- f
• | pany I 92 men and three officers. York, Lewistown and
Bedford are away below minimum. Only two Eighth Regi- |
, ment bandmen were rejected. f : »
' DISCHARGE GUARDSMEN WITII DEPENDENTS
.1
{ New York July 6.—Applications for discharge by Na- { S
< tional Guardsmen who have dependent relatives will be <S
! granted, according to orders received from the War De- X
< ' c
« partment 'to-day by Major General Leonard Wood, com- V
mander of the Department of the East, U. S. A. The
[ i order also enjoins department commanders to instruct re- /
cruiting officers to avoid acceptance of recruits who have £
< ) relatives dependent upon them for support.
MARRIAGE U|
J CieorKo Lyn BaruN and Allna Imif Wallett, lokMburc.
I (, * or »« \%lllli» Hartman and Fanny Catherine LlvlnßNton, city. L
CITY EDITION
