TURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JULY . 1!)1(.
NUMBER 1.
. i . in 'i iv 'i i ,;- 1 1 i. i. ill.
-wit! noioio so raiMiTiv mo.
mm mm id iiiffliOiiLi uiui,
wm ' r. w wv m raw f u ci k-k pfji si m uui 13 irv r li n rv-1 m n j u v " m km a a hi h d nra i
rt H fi 6) t,?U 1H H N Hi II IN HHitn RRH D K K S H V HI HI HH R Pill
GERMAN LOSSES
PLACED AT 60,000
IN GREAT DRIVE
icable Note from First Chief Proposes All Dif
ferences Be Settled by Mediation or Direct
Negotiations Communication Is Brief, ol
Friendly Tone and Lacks Insolence of Other
Missives Not Likely That Reply Will Be
Made Subject Will Probably Be Treated
Directly Through Diplomatic Agencies
Washington Believes the Dispatch of the
National Guard to the Border Helped Car
ranza Come to a Decision.
BICO DESIRES
iORDER QUESTION
SETTLED
QUICKLY
Prisoners Captured by rrench
and British Arc Reported at
lfi.OOO Allies Casualties Not
Stated.
FRENCH SWEEP ONWARD
ti.tri Jn'y " - F.u ly resumption
drill i.. 'H e.iiixcrsntlnns with
n vci mnr nt nf Mexico In
P'
f
ic
lllill'l
I
.'ile
toil
lor
e ninl order may bo
rn Mexico anil along
IS r ic o 1 lll'l'o tn lie tho
f t .i I nited Stntcs in Its
Ui i -i. it Morn neighbor.
i if Mi -.1 fi ly Villa's rulil
m X M . anil culminating
1 irrl nl Mexico, between
' .Viv in troops, appealed
l,.t been dissipated li.v an
ii' i in General I'arinnr.a
rip the day liy Ills am
o lure. 15ltsco A i re-
note i rojirT- in it tlio differences
ei he go" rt 'inents bo settled by
itn i c ( ire I negotiations. It is
rki 1 i f i brevity. Its losiralnod
fi ir i' i mi! fur the absolute
rr nf ill i- i iiiir, even Insolent
mpr li ' ' ' .ii'. i tenzcil the last two
iniil i " nt m the do fnotn govcrn-
i i ( a a ringed Incident the
hp- of i,nfrlendlv communications
it i r i ' war almost witlim stem.
fr in i n ment on the note was nb-
1
I ll
ch
. 1
e it
f
t it
i l' (
t
ii
llii
r
n
t
u
f ii i file department otllelals.
fori' tided to the White House
i pi'ii I - ret nipt and Frosi
ilr er'iilne the enurso to
1 at Secretary i.an-i-tr
l I- s preparations for a
' icgln l''rnlay is io
i i ', how over, of a feel
iiii lie crisis is over.
, ivi neral principle the
. e . nt nlways has
f any dispute suitable
I rot e.l ii' Tliero Is every inill
u i r t -it In t he present ln-
w 1 ' e t net! desirable to enn
cgniiatloiis directly
" ("" eernmont.
r t n l..itm-American dip
c 1 ' r. are expected to
r i i.n as to tho attitude
v il iKton government. In
II 't.itement of the Mexican
it' tr that It awaits only a
here as to whether mediation
feel that more ran lie accomplished
through Informal discussion between
Mr. A rrcdondn anil Counsellor I'oll;,
who will act as secretary In Mr Lan
ding's absence, than could be hoped
for in any other way. It Is under
Stood Mr. Arretlondo plans to call at
the department to-morrow to say
good-bye to Secretary Lansing before
the lntter's departure for his vacation.
Ill effect the latest note proposes that
the clock he tinned hack to thetlme imnie
diatelv following the Columbus raid and
jwhen negotiations were, afoot for the
passage of American troops into Mex
ico In pursuit of the raiders. Conditions
hnvo changed since then, however, ilen
eral I'arranza havliiK nsseniblcd n consid
erable army in northern Mexico and tho
1'nlteil States havlnvr called the entire na
tional fiuard to tile lino for patrol duty.
In i liti t n n v
Carranza Note SiiRKC-sts Latin
American Mediation Full
Text of the Communication.
Entire Second Position of (Jei
mans South of the Somme
Has Fallen Russians Report
Cuttinc Austro-German Line
ol Communication.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEUURY.
Iron!
l'"lsh
I nr
Inken
nit ik rotiations woultl he pre
i I ilcatlons to-niKht were
t Ii purles would ho met with
rtil.r " tb.it tne iwo Ktivernnienis
re bed n sl ide where thoy woultl
Pi 1 it l f t sfarv to call upon the.
,ti. t. i u fif tlioif neltrhbor
11 Is leRiinled as lmiirobable that anv
Iilnn for American liursuit of bandits ex
cept possibly within limited areas wlleie
a hot trail Is followed and no Car rn nan
troops are available, will he discussed In
the new negotiation.
Tim mobilization of the cuard con
tinued to-day at full spot 1. It is cer
tain theie will lie no linn -itllate nltera-
Itlon in tho war department s plana Prob
ably a ifiliiction of t! . border li ices
would bo ordered only after some eo-
! operative plan of action had been asiced
upon with tho .Mexican Koverniuent anil
had been tiled out sufficiently to leave i
Hit doubt as to its practicability. In
I other words, a demonstration of the
fa- i ability of tho Carranza forces to carry
out tholr part of t ho bargain wouhl in
required. Whether such a tlemonstra
lion must precede withdrawal of Ocneral
l'ersllliiK's forces Is not clear.
Officials believe that tho call for tlm
national guard and the actual dispatch
of the troops to the border was the
impelling Inlluenee which induced Gen
eral Carranza to abandon the hostile, nt
titude taken in his previous notes. They
say the I'nited States holds a strum;
tirKtinieiit in favor of peaceful solution j latter hue
of border difficulties as lontc as it main- Therefore,
tains an army near the line and there
seems llttlo probability that they will
rltlidrnw until dancer has passed.
I'nnuestlonably, If no new bandit ont
lueaks occur, tho national uunrdBinen will
bo gradually sent back to their homes.
is pot k own whether .1 form.al
tn fitirr.tl Carranza's noto Is
ptnpi utii j f.Miiiiiti)i iiptih'- "" f
call for ont , ai d many officials
Washington, .luly K. The text of the
Ciirranza note, as transmitted by
Mllseo Arretlondo, the Mexican ambas
sador designate, follows:
"Washington, 1). C, July I, Iflic.
"Mr. Secretary: 1 have the honor to
transmit In continuation the text of a
note I have Just received from my gov
ernment with Instructions to present
to you r excellency.
"Mr. Secietary: On the 2," til Inst 1
hntl the honor to say that the Imme
diate release of the Carrlzal prisoners
was n further proof of the sincerity of
the tleslie nf tills government to reach
a tacit and satisfactory an angement
of present dlMlculties.
"This government I" anxious to solve
the piesent etmlllet and It woultl be
1 unjust if Its attitude were misinter
preted. I "It was also the Mexican govern
i ment that earnestly suggested a plan
for cantonments along the boundary
I line din ing tho conferences of Cluilatl,
i.luarez and Kl I'aso. This government
is disposed now, as It has always been,
1 to seek an Immediate solution of the
two points which constitute tile two
I causes of the conflict between the
'countries, through which the Anierl
'can government believes reasonably
itlnit the Insecurity of its frontier is a
l source of ditllcnlty, anil the Mexican I
'government on iti part believei that
file status of American tioops on Mex
ican territory, aside from being a tres
pass on the sovereignty of Mexico, is
the immediate cause of the t'onlllct.
"Therefiire, the w Ithilrawal of Amer
ican troops on one hand, and the pro
tection of the frontier on the other,
are the two esstntial problems, the
I solution of which must be the direct
ing objects of the efforts of both gov-
ernments.
I "The Mexican government Is willing
to consider in a quick and practical
, wav and prompted by a spirit of oon-
I cord the remedies which should I u ap
plied to the present situation,
I ".Several I-atiu-Ameriean countries
have offeieil their friendly mediation
to the Mexican government antl the
accepted it In principle,
tho Mexican government
nnlv awaits infoimation that the gov
ernment of the United States woultl
be disposed to accept this mediation
for tile purpose mentioned above or
whether It is still the belief that the
same results may bo obtained by
It originally was planned that only a part i mrans of direct negotiations between
of the force bo used on the border, the re
mainder being sent later to relieve regi
ments which had put in tho required time
at nctlve service. It Is possible that this
scheme will bo followed later.
RMONT TROOPS
T CftHI C DACQ
I LnULL I nUU
IN GOOD HEALTH
mm f y
ree JMemners 01 unc vom-
-w v r i
111 V. llllltClLl. JiUVil
Operated Upon for
Appendicitis.
MOOSE WILL BE
REPRESENTED ON
0. P. COMMITTEE
Candidate Huffhes Gives On-
proval at New York to
Plans of His Campaign
Advisors.
laglo T'nss, Texas, July C. Less
n one per ennu tu uiu jwnei icmi
ops conccntiateil nt JJaglo t'ass are
sick report, according to reports
day to tlcneriil fJreono. nspeoinl
has hern taken In sanitary nr-
lgcments of tho cumps nntl plans
a base, hospital capnblo of caring
all the men stationed on this set;
n or tno noitier.
'bo three ixaiionai tiunrti regiments
. l'.n,n,,l U'nnunq n ml Al n vt n 11 ,1
lie ro have passed tho necessary
ysicai examination iiiin t ut hh-ih
, i n-., t....l.nt.l
VII lieril given lit Jlini. ij i'n:-
... i 1 nnr.l.,.1,.n.tn
lion ii t aiiiient, in" in ufit
lhold treatment will bo completed
and those not vaccinated against
allpox will undergo this precaution
mediately
Hie J'irst Maryland regiment arrived
-day during a drenching rain, the
l experienced lien since January.
me private or tuo vennoni regiiuuiu
a opcrateil upon for appendicitis at
hospital heie to-tbiy. This was tho
ird case in that particular company
ice the regiment ha.) mobilized.
both governments.
"In the meantime, this government
proposes to employ all efforts that may
be at its disposal to avoid tile recur
icnce of new incidents which may
complicate tho situation. At the same
time it Is hoped that tho Ameilcan
government on Its part may make use
of all efforts to prevent also new acts
of its military and civil authority at
the frontier that might cause new
complieat Ions.
"1 nall myself of this opportunity
to niteiate to your excellency the
assurance of most distinguished con
sideration, (Signed) "C. AOl'IhAU."
CARRANZA
FIGHT
TROOPS
VILLA BANDITS
;ven it not qiilto "ready to buy" real
nie. ynirre reatiy 10 Know nnout
vlng opportunities stj keep lu touch
ih tho UUbSllllMl.
New York, July f. Charles Hughes,
her em a two days' trip fro 1ib summro
homo at Brldgehampton, to-day approved
tho proposnl of his advisers to havo a
liberal representation of the Progressive
imity on his campaign committee. Tills
committee will havo entire charge of tho
campaign.
The tentative program calls for a com
mittee of seventeen of whom ten will be
members of tho executive commltteo of
tho republican national committee. Or
tho remaining seven probably five will be
progresslvn lenders. Tho personnel of
both tho executive commltteo nntl tho
campaign commltteo probably will bo an
nounced within tho next fow days, as wile
nB tho selection of a treasurer and a sec
ictnry of tho national committee.
In a long conference) with Chairman
William H. WIIIcok iMr. Hughes also out
lined his proposed program providing for
tho opening of tho campaign with a five
weeks' trip tn tho I'acilln coast, beginning
early In August. Mr. Willcox anil other
party loatlors endorsed tho idea and It is
likely that It will bo definitely niloptctl,
Tho nomlnoo spont a bust' day In con
ference with many callers. IIo nlBo had
another long talk to-night with IMr, Will
cox Mr Hughes expocts to return to
fienernl Itnmim KMIl'd In I'leree mid
lllmitly Unfile.
Chihuahua, Mex., July 4, via T31 Taso
Junction, July :,. General Iguaclo
Hamos, was killed In a. florco and bloody
battle that raged all yesterday be
tween a small foice of do facto troops
and a large band of Villa followers at
Corral ranch, IK miles southwest of
Jlmlnciz. llolli shies suffered heavy
losses,
Itathor than retire to Jlminnz wiib.
out carrying out his 01 tiers which were
not to return unless he was nblo to
report success, Gmieial Hamos fought
lu Ills ontieiichiiieiits until killed,
cheering his men on to tho last.
The Carranza troops worn surround-
en .unniiay at iiayiireau. am for morn
than 1 hours held their position
agnlnst heavy odds In tho hope that
reinforcements soon woultl arrive.
At nightfall, after their leader had
been killed and the gienter part of
tile command killed or wounded, the
survivors retlietl to Jlmlnez witli tlieli
wounded.
After tho Corral clash, tho garrison
at Santa Itosnlla was rushed south to
guard .lliiilnnz against any attack. In
tho meantime ',nOO troops. Including
tho famous brigade of Domingo Arreta
wore sent south to attack tho forces
which cut off General Ramos com
mand. General Mncl.ovlo Garcia, who Is
lu charge of tho campaign Is keeping
lu close communication with General
Trovluo,
Iintlon, July The ertlre second peti
tion of the Germans sou'n of the Somme,
over an extent or approximately six miles,
has fallen Into the hanii of the French,
who have also capturen the village of
Hem, near the northern extremity of
their line, and have completed their cno
quest of Kstreos.
Tim liiltlsh line has apparently failed
to advance, except "slightly In certain
sectors' as tile British ,vnr office puts It.
None of the giound gained by the British
has been lost, however, and the furiner
statement of tho British that the light
ing all along the the -nttlo front was
mostly In the nature of I -cal struggles for
tho possession of strong points would
seem to indicate, that ei h side Is devot
ing particular attention tn the organiza
tion of Its positions and the strengthen
ing of its hand for further attack or de
fense. The number of Gcrmm prisoners re
ported by the British antl French has
reached about Id, 000. while the Ger
man casualties have been unoff Icia'ly
estimated at lio.OOii. m their part, the
Germans repoit the taking of a con
siderable number of British soldiers.
Comparative quiet for the time be
ing has settled over Ver'un, although
the bombardments, of necessity, con
tinue. But wliile the ro.-pito Is on nt
Verdun the Germans have opened a
new attack on the l'r"iicli line near
the T.orralne frontier some miles to
the east of l.iinevl'le Thev delivered
strong atsuullH nuanist the ." renin
trenches in this sector nntl entered
there at three points, onlv to be driv
en out shortly afterward.1".
A sueeess of tin1 first Importance Is
reported by the Russians, who clnlm
to have cut the railroad running from
l.tmberg, the capital of Gnlicla, to
Oalatvn. This Is the main line of
communication for the Austro-Ger-
nians defending l.emberg, and allied
military critics have Insisted that the
cutting tif this railroad woultl compel
the central powers forces to fall back
on a wide front antl place l.emberg In
imminent peril.
The Russian war office, In a late
communication, also claims the rout
of the enemy forces on the right bank
of the Dniester.
Tho views expressed In Berlin re
specting the Anglo-French offensive
reflect confidence on the part of the
Germans that the German line will
hold, anil that German control of the
territory now occupied in France ami
Be'gium will remain steadfast. The
successes so far nttaineti ny me
French and British are looked upon
as of minor importance.
Rnumanla has again conic Into the
light and talk has been revived of the
possible entrance into the war of that
country. Despatches tell of the recent
decision of the two strong opposing
factions In the Roumanian political
arena to oct together hereafter. Their
attitude Is said to be In favor of In
tervention on the side of the cntento
allies.
Constantinople olllcially reports that
the Russians have been driven out of
Kcrmnnshnh, In western I'ersla, while
the Russians claim to havo broken tho
Turkish line east of Ihiiburt.
The number of Russian prisoners
captured south of the I'rlpet river in
the month of June nccoidlng to tho
Berlin stutenient, i cached more than
23,000 men.
consignment of S,TA) brook
(Ingerllngs from the American
Culture eompimv of Carolina, R
river hero last week. They were
In charge by members of the Addison
County Fish nntl Game League and dis
tributed In the waters nf the North
Branch in Ripton and Mlddteliury river.
Thorn have also been 10,0)0 steel bend
and lake front deposited In Iiho Dun
more, New Haven river, nnd nlhe
walers. The latter enme from the State
hatchery at Ito.x'nit y.
Cnuntv court resumed work Thurs
day morning with the case of Jose
phine Ward vs. Alice Ward. The plain
tiff was on the stand for a half hour,
her testimony closing the evidence,
l.eroy C. liusuell nf Mltblli bury ninde
tho opening argument for the plaintiff
and Ira II. I.al'b'iir argued for the de
fense. Judge .tames B. Doiiowny of
Mlddb'biir1 made the closing r'ra for
tho plaintiff and Judge Miles gave the
ense to the Jury shortly after three
o'clock. The Jury was out a half hour
antl rendered a verdict for the plain
tiff to recover $2 10.0S and interest
since October 22, 1 D 1 1. The next case
taken up was the criminal case, State
vs. Fred Garvey. The respondent was
arraigned early In the term on mi In
formation charging him with having
broken into the home of Charles Fet
ters in Britlport on December in, tak
ing $S and a number of small articles
to the alue of J.'n. Garvey pleaded
not guilty. A very pietty wedding
took place at noon Wednesday
June 2S at the homo if Mr. and Mrs
Harry L. Hunt when their daugh
ter, Hester l'ranla, was united In mar
riage with Herbert Frost Hasten, a
sou of Mr. and Mrs. Thompson Hasten
of Shorcham. The cert mony wns pcr
foinied by the Rev D. H. Corkrnn, pas
tor of the Methodist Kplscopnl Church
where she will remain tinder attention.
- Frank Hatpin of Leicester, Mns.,
and Charles Hnlpln and Miss Agnes j
Halpln of TSrltlgeport, Conn., are In '
town to visit at the home of their par
ents, Mr. nntl Mrs. Michael Halpln, In
the cast part of tho town. .1. Bush
nell Smith of Hartford, Conn., Is In
town to visit his parents, Mr. anil Mrs.
t.V.,,1 lll,,lll, t,itl,r..f l'.ll.n,l,i .,f rir,. I
ton is in town on it 10 days' vlrlt to his
parents, Mr. anil Mrs. Joseph Calhoun.
.Mrs. W. W. Matanvllle and daughter,
Alice, nre guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Guldeon 15, Abbey. Miss 15rele llueslls
him returned to Whitehall, N. V., after
a week's visit nt the home of her
brother, 15. L. Huestls. Mrs. F.llcn Mc
Curdy of Nutley, N, J.. are at the home
of Mr. nnd Mrs. Joseph Calhoun.
The glorious Fourth was a dreary
and dismal tiny In Mltbllebury nntl
neighboring parts, there being show
eis nearly all tiny. A few people In the
forenoon braved the weather and went
to itiitlaud or to A'ergennes to take
p irt In the big celebrations there, but
the largo majority of those who In
tended to go remained at home. The
big field day piogiam at Median's
park at Lake Dunmore hntl to be
abandoned. The Baptist Sunday school
picnic, which wns tei h'lve been held
at Lake Dunmore, was necessarily
fit otponed.
Mr. and Mrs. Carl C. Frost have re
turned from a visit to Mrs. Frost's
parents, Mr. and Mrs. James 15. Toll
men, in I'lttsfonl. Their young daugh
ter. Miss Helene, wtll remain In Pitts
ford for, the present. Mr. nntl llr..
F.tlwnrd Signer antl son, John, nf
Brockton, Mas"., are In town to visit
bis mother, Mrs. Henry Gerow. Mrs.
Marcus Allen and daughter of New
York nre visiting at the home of her
p.irentc, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Buck
ley. Michael Halpin, who lias been af
flicted with heait trouble antl com
plications for several months, Is now
believed to be In a serious condition.
His children have come to be with him,
Mr. and Mrs. N. J. Boudrenu went by
Hubbnrdtown
HETTY GREEN'S WILL
FILED FOR PROBATE
AT BELLOWS FALLS
Wealthiest Woman in America
Leaves Bulk of Her Great
Property to Her Son and Her
Daughter.
VALUE IS NOT ESTIMATED
The Will Is a Document of 90
Typewritten Pages Provision
Is Made for Several Smaller
Bequests to
Mrs. Green.
Old Friends of
,,f 11,1., viil ii-,. in i he i.vese nee of the 1 automobile li'estlay to
near relatives. Mendelssohn's wedding j for a few days' visit with Mrs. Boutl
march was played by the bride's sister, reau's sister and other relatives.
Kathleen. Th mnid of honor wns Mil- Hiram w men nntl young son, lormer
died, a sister of the bride, antl the best residents ol .iiititiieoury, now 01 iei-
man wns Uuse II. brut her of the groom, j mont. are in tow n. -Miss j neresa
After the ceremony dinner was served, j Itegnn nf West Castleton Is In town
The biid.il couple left for n wetlding for a week. Dr. Earl Cushman of
trip to the Slate or New York and Brooklyn, N. Y., is in town to visit his
when they return they will reside in parents. Mr. nntl Mrs. Oscar Cushman.
Middleburv. The room was tastefully Mr- and Mrs. Cyril Routier of Rut
decorated with pink and white roses, hind nro in town for a few days nt the
the ceremony being performed under "nno "f b"r mother. Mrs. Frank Trudo.
anarch of running pine, pink and j Mrs. Myra Stiles of Morrlsville is
white peonies. The color scheme in ! visiting her son, John Stiles,
the dining-room was green and yellow. owing to the recent continuous rains
Mr. anil Mrs. Hasten are well known ' he water in Ottter creek anil the smaller
and verv nnnular among the young streams In this section Is abnormally high
people here. Mr. Kaston is a local mall
carrier.
At n recent meeting of the Addison
fount'- x M r1 .tsoeinl ion commit-'
te It was stntetl that J2.2O0 of the
committee's budget calling for $ 2 , T. fl (
had been raised nnd Hint there was n '
good prospect tor completing the
amount needed. Resides the regular i
members of the committee there were
present Fretl 15. I"i eeninii, international
secretary, Bvron X. Clark, State secre
tary, nnd Hrnest L Hand of nulling- I
ton, Mr. Rnnd was chosen secretary
Jiuonow afternoon to JJilUKehumpluiu
PIOKRAGF. FOR SIR 15DWARD GRF.V.
London, July 11. The King has ile
elded to rnnfer a peerage upon Sir
F.dward Grey, secietary of foreign nf
fairs, according to the Dally Chi on
Icle.
E FIRMS COMPETE
lllilt for Slntc Prlnllng Opened by
Piirilinslng Agent Vnninincciiir-nt
if An aril In a 1'cn I)nj.
Mnntpcller, July 6. N'lno publlshlnB
houses lu the Stato presented Mus fin
Ktate printing, which wero opened at tho
otllce of Stato Purchasing Agent Dowey
T. Hanley this afternoon. The bids are
divided into 21 divisions and Include nil
public printing such as the reports of
Ktato ofllcers, Inventoiles and public ilocu
incuts. Announcement of the awards will
not bo matlo for several days.
Tho following companies wero rcpre
seated nt the opening tit the bids: Capl
tal City Press, Moutpclleri Tuttlo com
pnny. Rutland; St, Albans Messenger
conipnny: Fice Press company, Bulling
ton; P. II. Goblo Press, Bellows Fallss
Roscoo Printing House, ICsscx .lunclinu
Other bidders were tho Opinion Publish
ing company, Bradford, Vermont Printing;
company. Brattleboro; Cow lea Press, St
Johnsbury,
MASS. GUARDSMEN TO
(iO INTO MEXICO
win
AnnImI In (iuiirilliig Pernlilng
I, tne of ('iiiiiniiinleiillnii.
Columbus, N. M.i July IS. Parts of the
Massachusetts antl Now Mexico National
Guard organizations mobilized hero will
lie sent Into Mexico within the next few
days to assist In swarding General
Pershing's lino of communication. This
was announced offli Inlly at military
huaUiiuurtcra hero lato to-day.
to take up the work resigned by L. A.
Morhous some months ago and Is ready
to begin at once. H Is expected that
another meeting will soon be held to
discuB the plans fuithcr.
The annual meeting of school district
No. 4 was held in tho town hall Friday
evening, with an unusually large at
tendance. The call was rend by Clerk
!. M. Burke, after, which Ira II. I.a-
Fleur wns made modeintor and J. M.
Burke cletk. Reports were adopted as
printed and distiibuted to the taxpay
ers of the district. A tax nf 7.1 cents
was voted to defray expenses for the
coining yenr. Charles 15. Plnney wns
elected ti "usurer nnd C. C. Wells audi
tor. The following were elected ns the
piiidcntlnl committee: 1. II. t.aFleur.
Calhoun, T. .1. Leonard, C. 15. Pln
ney nnd K. H. Mai tin. I. It. LaFleur
after his re-election asked to be ex
cused from tile board. He hns held
the ofilcn for 10 years, but his request
to be released was not accepted. At
the morning service of the Congrega
tional Church, u letter wns rend from
the Rev. Henry C. Newell of Somerville.
Conn., accepting the call to the pastor
ate recently extended by the church
and society. Mr. Newell expects to
enter upon his duties sopiomoer i.
The condition of Phelfii Coollhnn,
who hns boon confined to his Home
for a month with dropsy nnd kidney
trouble, does not seem to Improve. Mrs.
Coollhnn. who has been 111 with ner
vous prostration for Kcvernl months,
is much better. Miss Ida Dragon, who
two weeks ago underwent nil operation
for appendicitis nt the Fanny Allen
hospital, Is Improving rapidly and
hopes to be able to return to town this
week. Gooino Coulett Is removing his
shoe shop from the Vnlon block, where
he has been located for many years, to
tho Bond place on Main street recently
vacated by Harris Kpsteln, who hns
gono to Brooklyn, N. V., but whose
family remain In town for the present.
Mrs. William It. Baldwin, who has
been suffering from hemorrhages of
the stomach for a couple of weeks, Is
much bettor that she is able to sit
up for an Hour or so every ony, iter
.slster-in-luw, Miss Catherine Baldwin
of Scranton, Pa., Is here assisting In
her care. Joseph H. Carrlgan of Pitts-
ford, who has been hero for a week to
visit Ills son, Joseph K. Carrlgan, coun
ty agricultural agent, lias returned
liome to I'lttsfonl. Miss Adelaide 1'5.
Ross, who lias been with friends here
for throe weeks, tins returned to West
Rutland. John Ablen, who has been
lsltlns In town for a few days,
has leturueil to lilting-'Mrs. Fer
clcy has gone to Saranac like.
N. Y., to spend a few days with her
husband, who has a position In that
city. G. II. McColn, wlio has spent a
year In town, has returned tn Ticon
derogn, N. V. On Sunday evening at
six o'clock an open air meeting will bo
held In tho renr of the Memorlnl Bap
tist Church, weather permitting. This
will be the only evening service
Should tho weather bo had the meet
ing will be held lu the chinch. Mon
day, market day, eggs brought 22 to
21 cents and butter 22 to 20 cents.
Fordyce Moore has leturnml from Sar
anac Lake, N. Y , where lui was called
by his wife, who hns been there for
some time for ttt'iitniciit. Ho took his
wife to tku Muiy l'Uutuliur houjiital
for this time of tlio season The lowlands
along tho banks of the sti earns are still
In mnnv places flooded with water and
many of the fr n.rs have not yet suc
ceeded lu g. ttlng an their crops whenever
they have n clear day. The annual picnic
of tho Sunday school of the Memorial
Baptist Church which wns to have boon
held Tuesday nntl which was postponed
ii'itll Wednesday was held at Bvazec
parks, Lake Dunmore. There was a
largo atteminncc.
It is understood that the D. 1. frater
nity of Mitldlebury College, which for
several years has owned a building plot
on South .Main street, will erect a frater
nity house there some time this season.
Mrs. larcus Allen, who lias been In town
for a few days to visit her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Thomas Buckley, has returned
to New York city. Her daughter will re
main hero for some time with her grand
parent. William Lauber has gono to
Cheater, called tbero by the Illness of his
daughter. Col. James 5.1. Tracy has re
turned from Rutland, where he lias been
to visit to friontls. Thomas W. Rogers of
Brandon, tho contractor is In town super
intending tho finishing touches on the new
Mead Memorial chapel and the now Hep
burn dormitory nt the college. J. F.
Crane, State superintendent of bees, ha?
returned from a two weeks visit with
friends In Rutland. Mr. nntl Mrs. It, 15.
Bertram! have returned to Albany. N. Y.,
after a stay of several weeks In Mitldle
bury and vicinity. Georgn Fassett has
returned from a two weeks' trip which he
spent at the Breadloaf Inn In Ripton and
over tho mountain in Granville. George
N. Powers of Bennington, a former well
known lestdcnt of Middlobury, is hero to
tsit his aunt. Miss Lucy Tlnnoy. Tho se
lectmen havo a gang of men at work re
pairing tho roadway of the stono bridge
over Otter creek. Henry T. Kidder of
St. Johusburv is in town to visit ills par
ents, Mr. nnd Mrs. George T. Kidder.
Mr. nnd Mrs. T T. Holland of Boston and
Mrs. F. M Kemptnn and daughter, Ma
rlon, of Bane, are spending a week with
Mr. nntl Mrs. F. J. Donahue of Franklin,
stroot.
VERGENNES.
The funeral of John Qttlncy Adams
was heltl nt his lato residence Tuesday
June 27. Tho Rev. J. Hall Long,
assisted by the Rev. Thomas Steven
son, officiated. A trio composed of the
Misses Zona Sterling. 151vo Muiiette
nntl Bertha Kimball, accompanied by
Mrs. I 15. Avery, organist, rendered
Iwo selections. Tho bearers were
Judge B. W. Collins. Richard Rnoth,
Ktlwaiil Collins, and W. U. Nichols.
Burial wns In tile Gage cemetery.
There was n profusion of floral trib
utes, nmong them being a cross of
cai nations, titles, antl Canterbury bells,
from the Congregational Church of
IVrrlsbuiR, of which the deceased was
a prominent member, nntl a pillow of
carnation and , blue bells from the
Ladles' Aid society The funeral wns
very largely attention, Among muse
from away were Mrs. 15. W. mines,
Mr. ninl Mrs. Milton mines. Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Leonard ami Mrs. F. B,
llallev of JCtist Berlin. Miss Helen
Glliies of Putnnmsvllle. Cirroll S. Pike
of Burlington, William It. Williams of
Monkton, Mr and Mrs. Andrew Ruscoe
of Panton. Tlio funeral was held
during the severe electric storm of the
afternoon '"i'l waited two hours for
the storm to abate. The procession
passing through tho so-called Gale
hollow met with trouble. The water
to tho south of the big lilt was about
level with the roadway. The surreys
and the hearse passed over the place
at great risk, while tho iMlance of the
procession turned buck One man
Jumped across the sub-cave after the
lienrse passed and In about SO minutes
Bellows Falls, July r.. Tho will of Mrs
Hotly Green, long known as tho wealth,
lest woman In America, leaves tho bulh
of her estate to her :.on, Col. K. H H.
Green, nntl her daughter, Mrs. Matthew
Astor Willis. The rcmalndor Is distributed
In smaller bequests to old friends of Mrs.
Green.
No estimate nf the total value of the es
tate is contained In tlio will anil the clos
ing clause provlelcs that the bon and
daughter shall not be reepilred to file an
inventory or apraisement or give oonds
and "shall not bo required to aeeount in
or to bo subject to tho Jmistdlcton of the
probate court."
Tho will, a document of 00 typewritten
page? was files! by Colonel Green and
Charles W. Pierson, an attorney of Now
York in tho office of tho probate bulge
after the funeral hero to-day. Jndgfl
.Graham set July 22 as tho date of the
hearing. Tho instrument is dated March
2, lltll. It was witnessed by Hoffman
Miller of Tuxedo, N. Y., anil James Smith
and Mrs. Fay Smith, both nf Hoboken,
N. J.
After directing that nil ex-penses In
curred through Mrs. Green's Illness and
funeral shall be paitl promntly several
tokens of esteem to friends art
bequeathed.
The will disposes of the estate of Mrs,
Green's husband as directed In bis will.
This property goes to the son and
daughter with the prov'.nn tbpt It Is
given "to tho exclusion of any ii terest
theieln or cnntiol thereof by anv wife
or husband whom he or sho has or may
wed."
All Jewelry, household furnlttiro por
traits, paintings and other personal ef
fects of Mrs. Green aro to be divided
equally between s.on and daughter as
they may agree.
A trust fund is then provided fir tho
daughter, antl the son Is directed to
servo as trusteo without pay In order
that the daughter may have the bene
fit of his experiences. The wilt pro
vides that certain bonds and mort
gages shall be held In trvst by the son
nntl daughter for ten years, tho In
come to bo given to tho daughter ev
ery three months and the capital to
revert to her at the termination of tha
trust.
The residue of the estnto Is loft to
tlio son and daughter "In trust for ten
years." No stipulation appears In tha
will as to the disposition of tho estat
after the trust expires.
Colonel Green and Mrs. Wilks ar
named as joint executors. If one fails
to perform the duties required, th
document provides that tho other shall
lie given full power.
Immediately after the will wns filed
the funeral party left on tho evening
train for New 1'ork. .
BRATTLEBORO CHURCH
OBSERVES CENTENNIAL
Four Diijm' Program Itegun by Mem
bers uf Center Cinigregndmuil Church.
Brattleboro, July H. Tho first day of
tho live days' celebration of the cen
tennial of the Center Congregational
Church was held to-day on the village
common where tlio original church
first stootl. A granite marker with
bronze tablet suitably Inscribed wns
unveiled in the afternoon. The service
was conducted by tho Rev. Roy M.
Houghton, a former pastor, now of
New- Haven, Conn., who also gave nn
address. A Sunday school pageant
showing tlio growth of the Sunday
school was a pleasing feature.
Thursday will be marked by a con
cert in tlio church by Mrs. Mary Howa
Burton of Clinton. Mnss., who will sing
and her brother, Luclen Howe of Boa
ton, who will be at the organ.
The first communion of the church
was held July 7. lRlti, and on Friday
afternoon a centennial communion
service will bo held In the church
Saturday afternoon in the chapel and
parlors open houso will be kept An
exhibition of antiques nntl curios In
dicative of conditions 100 years ago,
will bo given.
INJURED BY BIG STONE.
George Wnrreii Milters Cut In Leg by
To-Tnn Mime.
Montpeller, July 5. George Warren,
a workman employed on the Playhouse
on State street, was painfully Injured
early this afternoon when ;i stono
weighing nearly two tons fell glanc
ltiKly against his right leg below the
knee. The leg was cut tor eight or
10 Indies nnd 12 stitches wero taken
to close tlio wound. Tho man was taken
to a physician's office and will bo un
able to work for about two weeks,
With titlter workmen ho was employed
in digging when the stone, which was
propped up, became dislodged ami fell
Had It struck him squarely the leg
would have been broken and crushed.
(Continued uu Pnuc tno.)
Your knowledge of ical estate values
In this city Is not complete, nor properly
amended up to ditto, unless you lead tn
classified ads. ,
