1
SSI OKLAHOMA CITY TIMES
(Publiahed by The Oklahoma Publithing Co.)
HOME
EDITION
VOL. XXVIII. NO. 82.
OKLAHOMA CITY. THURSDAY, JULY (',, l!)lf.
PRICE ONE CENT
ON TRAINS FIVE CENTS.
(r
Fill Up The Purse!
OKI UIOMA'S I iivl trgtmetit haves I ml Sill nl cdnrsda',
Lit border duly.
I oloiirl Hnilnian couldn't till us vvlirir tlir 'i r going, lull lir
did s.u llicv'tc headed f . p f llir most i-"I fi .r .ikrn sliclih nf sun
binned desert in rill llir I WHI milrs nf Ih.i.ln line that Mictihcs fniin
liinwilsvillr In llir I'ai'lfu
I )' it is imr laM opportunity In pill sonicihiiig in llir 1 inir
I .lilli rn f tin I. wlliill i Inset S.iUltil.i v 1 1 1 K 1 1
would liEr to send a drall for If Vi) to the arnp ill I a t -n
I heir it $IH.I'5 in llir purse today.
Perhaps m do rut like llir name ( allien lund Sometimes
a liiimr kill- a worthy purpose ( 'anient m tins install, e docs tint
mean "hard li(tnr" lund ll means wilting paper ami stamps, sun
glasses, maiidnliii sitings, shaving snap a little nimscl nf Itrsli fruil
shipped ill from a Inng way off In give rst In llir liicsninr ar my
dirt tigarets anil Inliaico it means imnfnrt
Man, you ilnn'l know what il inrans In iln right hours nf patrol
dulv under a ImilniK nn wlirrr llic glare nf the dun I lav aiiK I'
liai k finni llir white sand ami Int you in llir eves likr llir (alt of a
lint mkri ! Am) when llir winds blow ami llir sands idnkct you ami
ton lilislrr ami svvrar at llir lailtis ai'iM lirards, wnuldi.'t ynii dr real
i dummy w ild a man tvlm supplied ynii w ild snnic little tiling tdat
would make llir grind a wee Inl easier' 'llnnk it over
Yrs, ll dnrs Innk likr llir hnvs atr tint going I" have to go into
Mrtun r i k tit away. Inil ymi ilnn'l kmm I liry davr In go intn tdr
desert ami 'Ink there a hundred nnlrs from a tailmad, furtdrr
(mni Iminr. vvtlh slum arms pat and nulliing In dn when nff dulv
Imt In llunk nf tlirir fiicuds linr
( nine nn fill lip llir purse !
Mil. AN I I I.N U NI) I- Di ll il.
$5,000,000 PLAN
TO STOP FLOODS
IS NEW PROJECT
Bride Guantoan BRITISH ADVANCE
Must Leave Behind
AT THIEPVAL AND
TAKE PRISONERS
County Officials in Consulta
tion With Farmers at Choc
taw City Today.
CHANNEL WOULD BE CUT
- FROM 170 TO 18 MILES
TngetnofRA?pckr LOSS ON COAST
Over U-Boat Policy
PROM HUKKIUANt
BELIEVED HEAVY
Slight Gain on Somme Front
j Is Announced in Official
1 Statement.
FRENCH PREPARE ATTACK
' UNHINDERED BY GERMANS
Power Sufficient to Supply
Oklahoma City Claimed for
Proposed Change. 1
Mm. C. J.
iOccupy Village of Hem, lm
; portant as Connecting Link,
After Fierce Fight.
Prnnui k
,No Word From Mobile, Ala.,
i Pensacola, Fla., or Re-
gion Between.
ALL WIRES DOWN AND
I TRAIN SERVICE HALTED
demand I1
FIRST REVIEW OF
REGIMENT TO BE
Governor and Staff to See Ok
lahoma Troops on Parade
At Fort Sill.
BY PAUL COTTRELL,
Staff Correspondent.
WOMAN TRIES TO
fAK'E LIFE: NOTE
I accompanied dv I nuntv
I l.tndrv and ( 'unit v Snrirw r
HELD ON MONDAY REBUKES HUSBAND
GUARDSMEN PLEASED
orii.izaiios r.Mr. i ori
SII.L. Inly h (..nardmm
1 mrr iuhilaiit lln mnrninf
over rereipl ' nr tlwt thry will
go to th bonier Wednesday
Work of drilling bfgan with new
;mhuiaMn
All men liave rfrfivfd ami -typhnirl
and nullx irralmrnt ami arr in
(f..(l rnlldltinn
Krcrints arr still nrrdnl riadlv
Mrs. C. 0. Davenport Found in
Hotel Suffering From
Mercurial Draught.
Mm f. O. Pavrnpnrt, ifr ol an oil
man ronnrrlnl with thr Smithrrn Oil
rninpany, iwallnwrd a rnnidrrahlr
Viaiitity of Imdlnridr of mrrniry al
I .VI oMnrk tin aftrrnoon in
a; the C'ollirr hntrl. M'
Pioadway.
An unaddrrurd and nneomplfird Ift
t:r llir woman had writtrn indicated
that her art the rmult of un
ieiiirtel love. Dr M. H Hunter n
iimnioned and. following treatment.
rdrred tliat the unman he removed In
a liospital
Makti No Comment.
In rr-p'iiie In a Kenei.il
lelief (mni animal idnil- and rmise
ipirnt damais'e, llie I iklalmma inmi i
i i.iniiii-MniK i . an- W"ikiHK mi a pi. n
In straiKdleii llie i daiinel nf the Nmlii
I anailian river ftmn I iklahnm.i ( it s
In llairah The length nt llir lianm I ,
is 170 miles llie 1 1 -1 ,t ii when
'train'itmed, il fs pl.nined. will dr milt !
IK miles frntn llklalmm.i I Hy In .1
pniiil near llarrah . I he pme. t would
in si il is estimated, fmm tJ.Sim.iMI 1.1
In nitine.tinii wild llir immttmn.
tdr three immtv i.iiiiiiii'Minirn, I I
Shrldmi. K..v layh.r and It W lll.uk.
hv nlllllv Atlnniei
VI.IMI,.,
went to ( hnilaw Citv Inday to tne"t
srvrral Imndrrd fanners and nldrr rrs-
idmls nf I 'Inn taw, Ilk, (nitihi.'
SprniKrr and HaiUell tnwnshipH fm :
a (list ussmn nf the prniri t
Tentative Plan.
The tentative plans i all fm tin
slrainlilrniiiK nt the i Immiii I Iti i'l a
pninl west nf southwest nf I Hadnm r
, ( Hv In aimtder pi'inl rl and s.nild
west nt tde i ilv
I mm I he latter point it would take
almnst a dirnt eastern imirsr In .
point near llarrah
llie new liannrl would praitually
follow tdr cnursr of thr Kink Island
line east, either mi tdr north or south
sidr, and thr plan miht all for tit-'
i hatmrl to run nart of the way on
a room ' the north side of the ttaiks and pail
North i "" v,,,,h ""idr
to Kun Almoin 2uai(nt.
If the tentative plan are carried nut.
the river - channel would he almosl
strailit from a point nevrral milrt
vtst of Oklahoma City to a point ytr
haps twenty miles rut, and thr fall
would he greater, thin furnishing all
thr power that would he needed in
Oklahoma City to run all machinery
for many year to rortie, and thus
would inran a grrat saving to ihr pro-
li
I i slet
pilal.
, 1 1 ll I eslel . siMrr n I'a'll
, spirrtai the I'mversnv dm
dei .one the I r I 'I Mnnt.iv alter
ll", ,n nf I dalles I I'emmik. a n.emder
"f 'iklahnm.i I H. hnspttal i .rps niw
in i .imp al Imt Sill line wne in.tr
ried at I awtnti and re. h lied tde nmlul
i.ilimi pnsi Mmid.n mnrniiiK
tdev were tfaled rm.illv dv Ihr dude
(;r,-,im's inimades, wdo o,ini7ed a
we, , lug parlv and. p, tde strains of
I., Iiengriii's wedding tnanh plated dt
tde regimeiil.il d.ind. paraded up and
dnn ttie 1,,1'ipailt street
"litter'' was hastily , niistnn ted
and td- drnlal pair plared tderem.
stalwart giiardsiiien hearing it addl
I lit llig tile irm rsslnll
llie drtde is wideU ktewn in Okla
Iviiii.i ( Hv, having lived here time
childhood and dring ailivr in ihiirih
work She is empl iyed dv thr Magnolia
Petroleum company She returned here
ltiesd.it evening llie hrnlegrooin w i
otini" li d wnli the Me,imi r liriig
inmpant heiore deuig i ailed In arms
I I.ONIMIN. lulv , lNe.n llnep I
val ,,u the s,.nmie in.nt I " e nude 1
further si(dt advauie and i aptured
niaiiv pnsniiers. the wai ntliie all- ,
U-.IIIH e, tndav " ,
llie Anglo Item d nile'i-ive in I 'if -anlv
has enleted aimlder d.tv of nih
stantial pli gress. outstanding features
I dere. dring tde resumption o thr I rrmh ad-
tatnr north of the Smnme and the tap
lure of llie dermau eennd msitioii, a
Pans dcpatih avs t'omplrlr irepar
at 11 .110 have deen made quietly in tins
si ill. .n vittuallt unhindered hv tde
I i irnatis while llie I rem h forre.
smith of llie river pulled up level and
g.it a thorough grip on the (lennan's
seiond line Irrtii lies I his was ai
mphshnl hv the erilmn of thr irr
n. ant fmm llir part of tde tillagr nt
l trrrs tdrv still held and tapturr of
tluir l ommuuii atmns firtwrrn l .strert
ai d Itrllowv
Dash Forward Mile.
Thr northern ltonis llirn emerged
fioru their (rem lies and dashed fur a
(.mil mile Ihr I irrmaii seimid misi.
tmns had dern so demolislied dv artil-
Chancellor Von Belhmann Hollweg.
llie tierman ihamellor is ttie tar
get of a move tn resume unrr-'ni led
li-r i, ihr siidiiiaiiue, nnw deing Hgl
laled in tiermany.
II. S. WILL SEND
NOTE ACCEPTING
MEXICAN PLAN
Formal Communication Ex
pected to Go Forward to
Carranza Soon.
POSSE AND PREY
IN PITCHED FIGHT
'dry that tdev wrrr nnadlr to make a' vAs 1 1 N I ,H "S lulv ' - I onnal
I stmng rrsi-lame rxi ept al Ihr village i
Inl llrm wlmh had hren Mmngly fo--; ar rptam e of l.eneral (..iranas pro.
'Iifinl. Ilrrr the atlai king Iroopt made posa that differrtKes delween Ihr
I desperate opposition I a-h house ruin : fmlP, f,tairt and thr dr facto gnvern-
'wa. f.rrcelv d.s,,,,e, hut dv Unit m
', hard fighting Ihr tillagr wat won. as
-.11 VI.,,,,,., firm In Idr smith. I rgoliatlotlt wilt dr
i west
Caplute of Hem Important.
to Mexico I'iry
I resident Ssi
:Much Property Believed De
! stroyed and Toll of Life
May Have Been Taken.
I Nl-U Clcl I ANS, l..i , .lulv o--Th
'tmpiial Immune whnh swrpt td
gull mast Wednesday has (lasted in
' land and is dimmishmg in inlrmity;
hut llie sileni e that liet in its trail, it
;is feared, means heavy properly lost
j and posstdlv lost of lifr
j Not a word has hrrtt heard inr
: Wednesday morning from Mohile,
Ala, Pensaiola. I la . apd llir section
Idetween All wires and wirelett com.
' muniratioti is in! "It and trains art
imt niovinv
Menagu Show Severiljr.
Two drief messages have unhealed
.the seventy of the stnrui in the vitin
j it y of Mohile. Thr Louisville ft
, Nashville railroad teceited a report
!e;irlv today ld.it eleven miles out of
Mnlnle llie railrnad Iraiks were cov.
, ein with waler and strewn with le
;i,i.s
j Ide I'liited I ruit Kadm stitmn her
was in I,mi-1 niinitiiiiiii atmn with the
'ci.ist guard cutter 1 allapnnsa ill Mo.
hilf liarlmr shnrllv lirfore nonti to
day, llie Tallapoosa' message said
the wirrlrM lowrr in Mohlle wert
down, hill gave no inilnatmn nf dam
agr or pnssidle lost of life The cut-
dirrrt ' Irr prepariliK to send a hoat
.,, i ashore for information regarding coll
I.e.: :.. vi i.i.
. .il lilllli'li III .Mi'i'iir
dn ulrd hv ( .
lav ai a iniiiri
trtllrd hv
dispati hed
This wa
II i.H , S".,l - . , ,
Ihe l-rriuh .onsidrr ihr cai-lure of .me m.th Secretary l.ang ' , , .T 7' ' 7 .,7
TWO NearOeS PUrSUed After Hrm "f "n"'"-'1''' 'tmsumt f"'1 Mediation Accepted ,,, a,irrtJ1!ir, mil )J(, Wrdnei.
.nmn..... IS. I,...tf rl ill fIS-rr 1 f I II . . .11 .-.I tl'..l ...... . I -
..... , ,,r jir,BJ MIr nnivnr-i iiiv nigiit mat tnr main pari in ina
lo Feuiller already in their iund. tnr-A? said the de fat In lint eminent ,fmrriane had passed inland
Hi poiteMion as.uret a uireri ixmn hl(i lrrrn,.(i ,n tirtnctnle l atin Amer- All tr.in. nn ihe I mnsville A Nash.
-i . .1. i
lean ottrrt ot ninliatmil. lull wat
awaiting information at to whrtlier
Attack on Women at
Bixby.
heiwern corpt on each ide
tlream.
villr to Mohile and also through trafm
were ranreleil Wednesd.iv night and
plr it, wat stated at thr court houe
Oklahoma!, national guard rontiti
nil, under onlrr to entrain next
Wednrtday lor lionlrr patrol iumi,1c iP,r , W1(r wril(rn al,,
"tomewhere on Ihe Mexican front." I lead il with inlerett hut made no com-
ill pat m formal review Monday j mrnl except lo tay, "She led me admit
morning at P o'llock hefore (inventor two w-eekt ago and tame here j had
William and his Mafl at Camp Hoh i nisi given her $JS tint morning In Ihe
Williams near I orl Sill, where the! Ial seven werkt I have given her
l irt rrgimrnt is mobilned f.HS"
Annotiinenienl of the trview was Ci W ( ollivet proprietor of the ho
mule HI imanr.ef.a tin ... t ,,..,..,. rl. . ,,, tnr nnvrnmrn , ame l.-re ,rrf ( fn,r ,Uv, (r w, , n
(firr a conlrreme last night. '"' Moii'lav and renlrd .1 T.e.in. saving , (r, dkUl,,,,,,. ( , ,,, llarrah If Ihr
(lovrrnor Williams and I olniirl Hnff - ihry would f hrre lor some tune Hirv Mrw ihannel is cut the waler wmit l
man. commanding ihe guard ("nlonel went awav .She tame hack yesterday. I run to llariah in a lew hours, it .s
lloflmatlt titil liere wat witlinul tig. 1 ney Hat? heen having tome trouhle. , ( launrd
TIT.SA, (Ikla . July f. - I wo nrgnt
who attempted fiult upon two white
women, mother j.m daughtrr, at their
home alimil a rule north of Itithv,
war offn r
Mr M-ll-.il.... ...4.1. I... .... ......
.1....1K. .... K.I.... .... 1... ..1 Ihr principal iaiisr for agitation in (Ikla. Wednenliv iiiulu. eiiktaiird in a
h.l ,ir,,,l il,. 11- 1 i..i,'v,' l"' proint is lo eliminate Id- ......i..,! i,.,,.. U1,i, , ( ..lvlii.,1, , Imlav't offi.ial tlalemeM of the .'remit
' " ',.,,, 1 x vtNt IIMIttlxT'l I I fl. I. I l I
Mlllilell U'"ri dll'l llttlllrllll 1 1 1 1 M I Ml ..it .
ways follow in Ihe holloms. . nMr ''"" V'Ma, earit l...at I atl 1
To Eliminate flood. , reports received hrre liete were that r,, ( ,tlr s.nme during Ihe night in
Damage annually Iront North ( ana- n'wf " 'he posr was huM hut that I which the dermant captured two ttna
tlian floodt run inla the thousands, I one of the nrgro.-s is thought to have!"",l' kilometer north of llrm
and thrre it no nmstiect of relief tin-I ,.... .i..,i i. 11. ci....u 11 .... . I 'em h also raptured a wood
1 . . . . .. 1 . ... 7 ! t ,. . 1 ...
est me river cnannri it criaiigrn to i:ir .. . . . ,,
, , , ,1-. ( artrr. who a- dru g a r it Ir
immrnte volume id waler can he ia
rird awav fa-ter It now takes frmn
French criltrt extvert Ihe T.e'mant , .1,, -,..,e, states helirved ihr drsired ....... I...I l...n ...o ,...1 r,,m h.r. r.e
nnw will rnnreniraie meir enrrgirt 1.1 r.,ls (t,, ,r annmpl.shed dv di
difrnte of the villaget of Harlrux an-l rr, , . hanget heiwern llir two gov
Villers CarfMitmrl emm?nt
Quiet North of Somme Rrpf j p., or two.
Wednrtdav was genrrallv iiu.rt north, vrrrrtarv I aning will Iravr l-ri-
a.lU SIUII'I 111 .lie nsri .-.iiiiuiir 4.i
had arrived early tnd.iv owing tl
washmits and flnniled tracks. Tele
graph and lelephntir compauirs renorted
( all wirrt dnwtl In Ihr Mississippi
roast sn lion and lo Molulr and Pen
sai ola and couhl give no imlicatiol
dav Inr a rnmitd's vaalinu It was.
lint stalrd whether he will prepare thr -of when cominunicatinli wmiM he re-
... tl.. I...'.... I.i. .... I.l.ip.,1 Ii.iuiPI. (mill VI i.t ls itinl
There were a few local engagements,,-. ' . .... ,,. ,,,.' ,,:,.. ' W'eilnet.lav aftrrnoon inefnated
ward 111 a dav or two at most ' thr damage had not hren hravy at far
notth at Hiloxi.
Boats Go (0 Reiciie.
I'eart entertained here for the tafe.
I he
RETRIAL FOR KHIGIIT
1$ DENIED BY COURT
Food Riots Occur
In Mexican Cities
I listru t linlge ( la'k I. "lav
ruled less Knight's motion for
nvrr
a nrw
mfiiance lie ilerlarrfl in an im-rview ue was nere lint morning
this morning, save at it applies lo the The letter wat written with a pencil
order for entraining received latl night and was itphraiding "Will" for treat
by Adjutant lienrral l-'.arp. in her in a maimer lo "cause me to
Reciuttinf Partita.
Recruiting parlies from the. First regi
ment will he tent mil lo various cities
ow arid Wednetday to fill the gaps in
the state't military nrgamiation hefore
it leaves for ihe hordrr.
take my life It enprested th? hope
thai he would nol win another girl'i
love and then cast her aside.
Refera to Child.
"I am taking my life." it said in tnh
stanre. "that little Maria may nol
No difiimllv in securing appro!- "P -""w Hie kind nl living
inal?ly 5W mm. now needed, will he "" "d h?come ashamed of
.........1 1.. it.. .... i.i.,l,.u ' me
s-ill I'liinri th 1111.K 1 i " ... ""
lo carry out sin h a proiril, tt wmill
he necestarv first lo orgame a diain
age ditih district, including all terri
tory affected Ihe owners of land ad
joining Ihe stream would have to pay
for carrying out the proposition llonds
would he issued.
MARINE RILLED IR
COMIHCAn BATTLE
Ihe lilllr girl wat sending neglected
1 at one tide of the loom crying as
I though hrr heart would hreak
LONE BANDIT HOLDS UP
! FOUR STAGE COACHES
Colonel lloffin.UI believes. Heretofore
recruiting hat hern in thargr of civil
lain 1 he appal of army men grnrr.illy
tarries more weight with pn.tpectite le
ctins, il is said
Peitlnalion Seciet.
Willi the exception of dinlaiit lien
eral Karp, leovemor Williams. I .dotiel, ( tsh M 1 1 1- V M I f V ( al lulv ri
Hoffman and the war deparlm-nt. noj , .,.,, K,r handed' held up lm,r
one knows the exact destination of the,,,,,,. ra ,r, Wednetday at Wawona
Firt regiment The entraining order , ,iide of ihe Vosetnile Valley
flat been guarded wtlh th- inmost care National park, and from twenty six
ll it rumored, however, thai this j persons udlectrd $I'H in iad and an
ataie's eoutingetil will be railed! uimn aortnieiit of irwelrt
to pal' Aai teition of the international 1 -
bouiuUt, hrlween Arui.ua and 'rx' j QjCriCrSlly FBIT
Inlneet Mutleied.
Ffigineer corps So I, Captain frank
f. King, hai been finally muttered
Into the semee. according . advice iK,i r.r,taii-ontraiis. t.i,
that reached Adulant drneial Karp this -n Mdari net much chtngt in tamptr.
Tonight, Friday
have shouted "Vtva tiringoes!"
food mils. Ihe reMirts to ihe Ameri
can commander said, are nrruring in
the large Mrxiran rilirt l San l.uls
' l i loti ihe goveromrtn't supply ,,f ,,,,u
, 1 for dislriluitii.il has lirrii exhausted
W VSlllNlilON. lulv t. Viu.tlier ..u... ... T 77.
etigagrmntl hetwren .Nl tevnlut.nn.s., Mattyin P.-sn, I),,,,
111 Santo Diiiningn and Amriuan 111a HKIHH. I rim . July fi - Ihe kev
rines, in whnh Iwentv seven Untniti 1 Hurrmight, ft! vrars old
itaut wne killed and five aptuied. 1 thmughoiil Ihe sm,ih as the "man ting
and one marine kilted ami eight ' parton." died lure Wednesday I).,
wounded, wat remitted to the navy de- ; I'li'ioughs it taut lo have pel formed
parlmenf Imlav hv Krai Admiial t'a- VM-' marriage leremonirt
pertnti. The fight ocitlirrd Saliirdiv I . ,
nriore me tentative agreement wat
made for Ihe disarmament of ihe reb
els The Ameriian killed wat Corporal
deotgr I'tavrr Unlv one of Ihe
wounded marines was miuieil-senmn
The revolillioiiisls were milled d
miral ( awrton teiottrd. larrymg op
several wnimded lining tlmr letreal
South nf thr Somme the tught passe I
illietlv
British Losses Viiv.
s the lierman Iremhes air imupirl
nidrtur ai i nninlales nl the deadly rt
null, hi nl artillrrt In some iases K.I tnal Knight was lotivnted lit a jnrv
lerirnl of Ihr delrndrrs wete killed hv Sunday on a ihargr nf murder nl
' , il terrific shrllmg In who h Ihry were I irorgr I' long, ihirf for Sulderger
I II I ) IIIAIXjCAk 1 1- K. Mctuo j subletted Itrilish losses tarv trr-'A- Son's fur ilepariment. November
lulv S - illy radio to t oliiinluis. N. ;"' formations being tailed 011 to at-1.'?, and sentemed M twenty tears in
Ni Jiilv I. l-Starving Mrxnan womrn ' -' defentes where machine guns re- lhe prtiitrntiarv. Judge Clark pro
have ttotmed Ihe governor' palaie aijinam'd undamagrd, tulfered heavily jnonnced formal trmmce uh.ii Knight
n l ilts I'oiosi, according to reports I t'thert raptured the potiimn whuhh t I T..A iM NlllMI
leceiven ny denern I j- I'ersnmg. and ' rr" r """ r nn
tngiu nistet 1
Ml l( O l 1 1 V. Inly r.- Tde apa
lisia general De la I), hat hrrn trr
.... . -n .1 . .
i.isre.,, ,., compelling met .ermant io , - , . . .... .
btten their efforts at erdiin. the'
oiistitnliotialisl fnnet under den. Si
dronio Mrnde;, accotdmg to a dispatch
11glol trn1h offensive termt to have
.. . 1 i .. . . . .1.1. 1
"""7 '"r". "n""1'' P" : received hv Ihr secrrtart ol state Irom
... Ihe hope of preventing the tench , (lPrl Nfn,P,
111111 semniig reiiuiiri ei.ienit nt tnr
mine Itntith observers express sal
i.fail.nti with Ihr progress that has
dun made
Russian Reroid Successes
Ihe Niitsians ii.ntinne in leiord mi
i esses, some of whnh are of great nil
H'Millnae) Fm Mne I
I
Troopers9 Bodies Dumped
Together in Ditch After
Slaughter at Carrizal
THREE HUNDRED
LOSE LIVES IN
SICILIAN QUAKE
1 .
Jrappcd When Earth Shock
Causes Mine
Cave in.
I aatiaM
morning me corp wat on probation, rA...iT..i.s,.
ml h.M In is. ...... ..A i i.- - ' "'-TanlgNt (n
..... ..... ... ... ..m.i, ,ti 1111-.11.11 1 p.. tij xivsivr.
Iirr whicri had to be secured from Ihe
war department. Norman is Ihe home
Of ihe corps, but its membership come
from different pari nf ihe Mate.
Average of Death
An Hour Continues
A ll HANNAH
.t tinriinn
Wr.8T TKXAH
lair.
KANMH-Kalr lnni, mnA M,
. r, .... . --... i i-iini,,inea in
rant nnrilnn t-'rliUy
TniilRhl rlmiili, !! ,n
Tmilahi anil rMr
Ol.tsv,
n.ilh-
NKW VORK. July 6 -The healili
liepartmenf announced today that it -tomplrte
figure thow thai during ihe
lat twenty four hours twenty four per
on died of infantile p.alvtit in Ihe
1,'ealer tttv
Gtrmani Sink t)altoyt.
nf RUN. July ft -The admiralty an
nounced todav 'thie nf emr uhma'ine
uiik an enemv deHroter in Ihe North
Sea lutiday."
TMt rTMC t)OVl
yrns to rvr d
rXNCTTrtTn xVV)l
"tVvXT IS a.rtav I
CaTiKT. jC-t
H
MZimmiew
Married Militia
Men May Get Off
Nl W OKK, lulv fi - Npphcationi
foi ditiharge hv iiatmnal guardsmen
who have dependent rrlatives will he
ktmiled, according to older re.rivrd
fmm Ihe war drparlmrnl Indat bt
Maor lietieral I ronard tu l 1011
inaudrr ol the drpartnteuf ol the ras
TIMrMATUN I
I" I'. M t
I M .... ?
M ...,...tt
' V Tl!
M Tl
A M ....... .Mi
A M I
A M It
A M .1
'A M
A al t,l
Jam rti
J A M
Tl A SI . 1
li Nemn II
t IV M .
f- M II
THRRK wa only on Important
alnrr In th tfomeatlt new ye.
Inday That va th not from
Catranu dlplll any totlblllty
nf to tmmedialt break with Matlro.
Th Time wa th only ppt
thai publlahrd th ttat of th nut.
Xry day Th Time print lh
Wt teenlng eppr In Oklahoma.
"All the News First" '
THAT'S THK TlnH.V MOTTO.
I I 'sn. letas. lulv ft The
hmhet of ( aiita.ll I hailrt I llovd,
I iriilenanl llenrv dair and seven
riM,iett of Ihe I "nth cavalry killed
al I arnial were hroughl In I I I'aso
Inday I lulv the bodies of (be lwt
iffuert and Private liewitl Ki.krt
have been identified
l ighl of Ihe Ameriian were ex
Inimed from a single t'tve, the un
d rl.ikrtt who bmughl baik thr
Innlirt tu Ihe dead bad hern
g ilhereil (turn Ihe field ol battle and
is into a ditih lint wat then
I, lied up
Dumped Into Cit
Cai'lmn I'otd. I.tenlenanl Adair
and tn troupe', lriipei of lhir
tiiiiTestnit. were diin.ped in Ihe grave
inditi riminalely
ninth trooper wa Imated two
mile disunl from Ihe other He
bad been wounded and apparently
had dratt'd himself awav to die in
the g'avellv wale beyond (be town
Coveted With Flat
The f ighlh r aval's- drew up at
attention while ihe twenty four
negro Iroopert, survivors nf ihe
I atriral engagement, look station
at the eiitiamc lo the tar dire. tlv
behind denetal Hell and hit ttalf
Ihe laskett were taken from ihe
tar entered with flag and pla.ed
in amhiilames white the niminted
hand of the f ighth tavalrv plavrd
"Neater My (.. to I bee "
- Ridetlet Hottet Behind Rarh
I he hand plated llie I h..nn
I uncial Mar.h" Snuads of dis
mounted mm fell in beside (be am
dnlaiuet. behind eai h of whnh a
11. lei lis. horse wat led Ihe nfli
ers and turn followed and the
cortege muted off between lanrt nf
people who bated Ihr.r bradt as H
pastrd
At Ihe ihaprl nf the Undertaking
establishment a btirf funeral te'v
lie wat readv bt t haplain W W.
Ittander nf the I'ighth lavalrv
II was annminied that Ihe idenlt
f.rd biMliet would be turned oter
to Ihe relatives and that Ihe others
probably would be tent tn Ailing
Ion lemriert. Wash111gl.u1, ..r
burial
I wo nf thr lviset that follnwrd
Ihe ambiitaiires wrte tuttitnit ol
( antral ,
I IHNTmIN. lulv ( violent catlh
'piake tn I atlauissrtt.t, Snilv. .ant
llig the death of 'l pettotis, is re
IMirled III an rxihangr telegraph dit
Ipalih from fvnmr ll
turns were in three
wlmh Ihe earth sinw k taiise.l to tate
in
Ihete have hren several lepmls te
irntlv of tetstuu distut bauies in Italt
Ihe Vidian., of Strombott nn an Isltn.L
of ihr ninth masl of Snilv. hat been
111 rnintion fur several davt, 1 anting
the inhabitants nf adimuiug ili.li 11 Is
In fire on relief ships tent from Met
tina l a'th thinks ixiuned Turtdav
I Anion. Ritnini, Helvntere, Mrr
etttmo and in other Adriatic di
lti.lt. but heretofore rm lm of life
b hern frimt ted 1 hrre have heen
a number ( disastrous earthquake
in Italv. Ihe latl tenon one having
occurred in I' Most of Ihe cnatt
inttii on both sides of Ihe lrail of
Mettina were whnllv or partly de
stmsed wilh a lost of life estimated at
7V.in
Callaniselli caoital of the Sicilian
prm in, e nf ihtl name is a City of
mme lhan i.Hl inhabitants
tv of residents of drand Island and
Ittarial.iri on tde southern coast, were
lessened today with not 1. at nm s that
the lull fnt.e nf t''r hurriiane had not
slrmk thnse se. linns Several boat
were sent to take out ihe mhahitanl
hut no wmd has been teietved front
j southeast I niiisiana
Crops Damaged
! In Mississippi
1( KSON'. Miss, lulv (1 - Contider.
able damage to rrnpt and to fanrfhutld
mg in lint sect tnn due lo the hurrl
cane wat reported todav and telephono
and telegraph terti.es were severely
crippled Irani tervue on ihe dulf k
Si.ip Island railroad operating front
l..ikson tn (iiitiiinti, has been suspt.
r ! tune lair ednesi.iy
' here was no omniuuii atimi wi't
Mississippi 1 nasi uiirt tint forriioort
am! ll was feared there bad been hravy
property loss, at least, in thai sc.tioii.
Meridian reported a forts eight till'.
wind eai1 todav and tun. li damage in
. ops in (hat sn trim
Washouts Block
Passage of Trains
NHINIdOMI RV, Ma. lulv 1. -Tin
Imiisville A Nashville road auonuiued
Ihr atleinoon ahatidmenl ot tihcdule1
f thmnii'i ll mis nf thai hue lo I'm
aiola Mobile and New Oileaut. on ar
mint nl tta-hmtlt souih of I ergreen,
Ma I nut passenger trains taught
in nh of Ihr tiorm sirnkrti area ar
n turning lo Montgomery, lo be held
until the tiaikt have been repaired
Oa.ng lo la. It ol wire commiiuii alioii,
i tliualt of llie road are unable to de-
ii inline how ternui Ihe damage is
it taid Ihe vie-i r""" m touthwe! Alabama are
ulnhiir mine . "'lted to far as wire and tail mm-
. 1 .
ini'tiu atiott 11 ion. emeu
I mat w. tries stations have heen un
abh lo get into 1 tmimimii atmn with any
pi mil on thr coast
to
Son of Writer
Confesses Murder
Over Card Game
OAKLAND. Cat. fuly ft-Compion
Vaughan who iav fie I Ihe oil r,f
Ihe lair Mr Kite Coenplim Vanghan,
t New Or Iran writer, and Franklin
Vaughan. an attorney on Monroe. 1 a.,
confessed today, the police tatrl. thai
he hnt and killed Oeorg farnet.
foren-.an in charge nf the ronttrt lia)
of a dam near Sunol. Cat, dming
ca'd game Uednetda Vaughan a
employed a a laborer. f
