he Marble Hill Press
rra-i.oo a. Year
THIETY-SnCTH TTER.
Clrcvilaticx. z.,Z
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, July 6, 1916.
No. 10.
Such
tobacco
enjoyment
as you never thought
could be is yours to
command quick as
you buy some Prince
Albert and fireup a
pipe or a home-made
cigarette !
Prince Albert gives
you every tobacco sat
isfaction your smoke
appetite ever hankered
for. That's because
it's made by a patented
process that cuts out
bite and parch! Prince Albert has always S5lriw--.
We prefer to give quality 1
-jxz&Zp cr,?
Mmi Albert
fAr national Joy unok
has a flavor as different as it ts delightful. Kou never frX f,e or if
And that isn't strange. either.
Men who fninA they can't smoke a pipe or roll a ciga
rette can smoke and will smoke if they use Prince
Albert. And smokers who have not yet given P. A. a try
out certainly have a big surprise and a lot of enjoyment
coming their way its soon as they invest in a supply.
Prince Albert tobacco will tell its own story !
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO, VUutoAde, N. C J
W $tt t4, rW
rf rW t m A
tons of v ir- fencing. At the end of. of baiiaiatir., Mo., visited Miss Opal M'.verti..- r f,,r any ,tt.-r office.
me iiniDvcd ntiui. 011 ins return, 1 Nt-n Sunday.
. a a ...
iue lann.-r wns compelled (,. throw ! 'I he hd, fry nt J W Hammock's
i-'Mi y-t tiref famous being present
Come o'i "Bruji Creek" ami
"Ro.keft llow" with your news
Wlvri.S Bl.OSNOM
offSOtm 1 -Hinds ,,f wire. He thenu short time ng was well uttMi.lt.!
hitched two additional mules to
haul luim minds 011 1 lie remaining
3 milt' .f tin- unimproved road.
This iiiiin then had to itinke three
more trios for the remaining MUtl
pounds ..r wirr and it rtnwl his (-'"Wrens' Da, Exercises
time f... the four miles fr.,m It) , 1 U ( hl1 ''n,s ,1f,y A""
o'clock one morning till 11 o'clock' y U'" " S,""ii,v !"'h""1 ,,f
thetiex: day to finish the hauling lZalm"- Brmi"'r A J (:""""
If the improved road had extended , '"-'"-''- mend.,i.
A mile, to far..), the or.nal M,,,,y "f ",e """;,y Sl,"K'ls uf ,t"'
iieiiiiitMriiin lilacs nii'1 rieihf Kr
I !hmhn were well represented Kvery-
team (.! two nitiles could have haul
ed the two tons of wire in hours
Inl,,., iv V af.m,,,Jl,IKl' n'P'" llav' eiijye.i the
.! tnn ....,.. u..,. u.., .ipr'ram immensely Dinner was
Jonenv.il- which he offereil to sell
for Sl.Ntti In (M)H this rMid wns
improve.1 and nlthoiijjh the fanner
fwiUht the improvement lie lias
siw r-fued 5-lfKK) for his farm
Alomj this same rood a tract of 1 88
ncre was opposed to bnve Iwt-n
sold fot .Sti.tKH). The t'tirchuser re
fused t;.e itintriKt, however, and
the owiirr threatene.l to ue him
After the road improvement, nnd
wilhotit any iinproveineiits on the
laud, th- same farm was sold to the
origirtHl i':irchHser for $!t.(iO(i
III Jarkni (tunty. Alii., the (hyv
ple vot-t a bond issue of $2TiO.(KK)
iservetiori the old picnic Urounds.
there l)-inti pl.-ntv of wholesome food
to satisfy the hunger of all. altho a
large crow ! was present
Brother V L Miller, as leader of
the exems -s h id divided the school
into three M-p irate classes. Brother
Miller ;is leader of the adult class,
Miss Gertrude I'ate as leader of the
intermediate class, and Miss Nellie
Smith as leader of the little folks'
class
Much time mid patience was re
quired in preparing the program, yet
with the much valued assistati.T of
Rev. Michael. ;asorof the Methodist
church of Z.ilma. and the combined
for nl iilitirov pmefit arid imTirnv
' ' , r .... i. .1. .... .
ed 24 rrr trnt of the roads The l'ul lem-ners and pu
pils tlie program ws well rendewl.
The program CMiusisted of speeches
and dialogues by the little folks and
readings and recitations by the young
men and woucn
census of 1!HK) gives the value of
all firn i.wds in Jack son county as
$-1 X) per acre The vlling value at
that time was from $i to $15 per
acre. Toe census of 1 1 1 pl.M-es
the value of all farm lands in Jack
son
Music was furnished by thp Kaker '
!ii.in v;ll" Advertiser
Steeis topped the market at eleven
dollars w lule the I)emicratic Nation
fotiveiitiou wan in session M'.re
lemiMTcic hard times State I)em
Com
The bet w iv fur ,i criiiditlale Kr
show his own unwoi tliiia ss is to at
tack .mother candid. ite for office
A candidate will usually stand on
his oa n merits if he has any. That
is the democrat:- way. The man
who throws mud at a polrn-ni oppo
nent ir: very apt to have a few
splotches on his own escutcheon.
Stiite IVinociatu Conimitt
The 0;niiiDiii of Hfia Ktutt.
Some persons are so generous in
liiving otiiers'u piece of their minds."
that the) have very little ,.ft.
It is a merciless world. If jeo-pl-
reahe you arc down and out.
they remember that is the case of
the diMir mat. and proceed to wiie
their feet on you
In some cases opportunity doesn't
even knock, but lifts the latch and
walks right in
Kveti in the realms .i!,ve t:ierc
is need of a milk iuspt-trr 1 he
Milky way is suspiciously nedr the
Big Dipper St, Louis Star
Do You A noM That
Better wages make better health"
Better health makes better citi
zens'' Better citizens make a lietter na-tii.n"
I lie United States Public Health
: I...,.,, I J .... I .. ii ... . . . .
coimty at $!!7 per acre, and ;"-'"""' eviiein s.ugmg w f,liJmj 7J rr (.p)1 ((f
the seiimg price ii now fnun $1," to t,C UH,r , .. riiral homes in a certain ctiinty ua-
ev j. v wiisahi ot iaima preu.m- provide-1
"l" v,,cy in' restn :niK.t
i $23 per ,rr
! Tti prine of Nrrv'ri. 1'k
f of any other nuiimwtity, is ruled by
ttMe. tUe T.m, u Differ-
rif ttteea Lit and
oif rv 4cf7rK r
the very best pnrt of the ixirwn t S."k(H. This was lfore
a tlw oil fvhKHid hartiKiny four- Sullivan ctmnty issued tx.ti.lt for
:MVini1f JW .mgrr, were two rvw, f
t.!her. M N and A A Kithler. . . , , .....
...d . hfeWtf fneml. J A Dt.nn 1 !'" r,)'ui ff,,m Bristol to Ktngs-
the M UktmihMHuKM. 'ry. Mrs W. A M. 'tma. who .mprove,.. so thattheteam
4nit t able to attend, ai.- the only '' l -Mly draw a ton to the
my
7be rry vrt tf th tj;r.im
with sanitary
v in'rMiii.t rii..i i.. . ,
if. v leif-r- w any ami
inwiunv, nts sutueet oetng irwrirstf fholcra
r : r . t t- i e .
the relation between supply and de- " v J ri,r,J ' oismarcK
marl. When the Pri.-e of farm tM,vm"1 ;' m"-sl 'n' "'"
la.Mls advance it measures a reHd-!"'1 1 nK' "r 0,,,"m'ss '" rhr,sf-"
jtistment U-tween the supply and! tl'!lt'v,'n"
the demand This readjustment, as !, To UT', H'h" a"" with the
has Urnse-en. is sharp and unnu. ; '" 'f a'"nhe love of humanity
One distinct j" a"H Pleasure to note a.e
i..v- .....i V ...i.: i. i t
Item of increased v;.li,.-s is ls,,,,.!'"' ,,,,u ,,',''"!" 11,u'
lortn irom die laces of the
conven-
is sjiread in t.'ie same
manner as typhoid fever"
Scarlet fever kills over lU.iMXl
Americans each year''
Hookworm enters thru the skin
lie w!io buUds up health lays up
treasure in the B,mkf Nature"
diate in many cases
... , ... in inirii Trw I 'ifta hi iii.i . n 1 1, i t-rt
u . I ... . . . . i , mntllvn I ft f i u ..I I ...... an.l i . I . .... I :. . I i in iiutro w ,bnl f. ..... i ' "' 1 "
stt, 'Kb rU..f fift, yers g,..tught tw, .Jay, t a nt of StttM) The ,h"t immigration into the rural ! Uinsl s'""1 ;,'Vr ,, l"--n to
- ... . . ... .'In ih tv. rh..- .....I ..,,,;. ut. .,: . ...i come unto me, for of such is the
siui-wnin is aie oi stirrnsing . (m t ost r mile under the old ctn- im..,u...us mri
situation You run lnvv up bill '" thr V l du..ns was $1 .i, 8Ih this cot was ' fi,V"r''We thi, f,r(s"
and iao lull past rn-k and nib intetestiaSt lo Itear thetn "touad ' te..!uvr, x XfM tiy u,r iiproV-i e "f SorKl rr'"is ,,HS rt,",e!itj
am! jMtrst mxt bow ikv and finally. ,t'ir l"4' 'd ec thetn beat 'wj f((i, ' ' j influence upon the ow ners of auto- j
fter Ust knirhmb. .u nee.ln 1 1 "th ,i"-lr f, fingers as they . Btfrt the rrvl from R.n M r ''10' Tliere are repeat wl in-;
in Lf OiMinty, a. wav , i , . k , ; Inerrforc. in honor of iht1 icwcls
sm .1 iwl. ... k. .i t , i " . is.i? oinnrs uit u iui c m rn
fcsAinS tw mm h hke a fity corigrv-: fmr vrtwigts. I tey . ilt j. re,iUjfj a ,wo nor. ,Mm
Hrt)f f jrt right uponto ran-yx a!e f.tr musk- aihl 1
;etH,,Uchrrhi1Ka1nu.lW,i,'M,t,,, " Tu Mn twu-s;im
UatHHi that you .wikta t tell thf. j mwoaiw reanw nin a riiu ; f(V H) pnumU, when the roads
differrnre utile you hipjsmed to l f,"w ,n,lr rf l-"rt hurvU.W)rt. jf onjnafy ,-onditii Since
Inow-exerpt for the Ki?nes. bles!b,lu v'irw1 f-'the rd h is been imprxntsl these
their heart watching ithertst Mi-uri' mprt.han hmil ;W ,.M.k, ()f f,rtUlz.
Th.it is o! of the iotrrt-stina ,H devekt rr wm,.n HIM),h .jn,, ,HUIMja p8t.h
things m present-day prtft Ti n mm is m.r uir ,-, Hm us, two mu T1((ly
ran t tell the differrnrr. sn far as es n hev iMxtd J IMvis ot , .
uppmrwtee is concerned. MWn;l'mn,,r Mr and Mrs Davis Nh ,
. j ... i ciii ant iih mr-a ill uir miiiiimm sitiir
iitetiiv aiM inr ctniuuv nmiinicr ; -
There ww important, rettns! ekler- uJ it n't surprising that
ly men iu thus emigration. here thrTr U nM" "- ufTerage s- nti-
were meo irf nihidle age with sue- txmn tlieir frieml
tT written all over them, there 'hurvh otlicrrs. trusters and
active in improving their roads
kingdom of God," and be who U-ars
not the bnt-for little children knows
not the real joy of living, and the
germ of human kindness is not itti
beded in his heart
: of humanity which have (een placed ;
July Hints for Poult r Raisers
As the chicks grow t!ie tie d
mote r.M)m. It d-tes not pa to it I
them crowd.
Beware of musty, nioiil.ly. sour .r
dcciiyed fom! I: is sure to cat se
trouble.
Touth grass is of no value as a
green fo.nl Better sow sorrt ,jtu. k
growing crop.
Fet-il hoppers greatK rchh-c the
I in our care, this day was set apart work If thev are kept tided.
us two mules, itiey now
Intake the trip in one day instead of
Roihport, III. by the leaders of the Union Sunday ! chicks will never go hungrv
Tiu heavy rains have tw-en quite school of Zalina, to give praises unto j If your clucks are not doing well
a disadvantage to the farmers,' lliod for the little ones w hose jo ous i something is wrong Lok out for
("l as Hammock has returned ' prattle and childish ways, cause us j lice and for worms in the intestines
boiii' from Summer Hill, 111 ! to scatter seeds of kindness along the ' Two-year-old hens had N-tttr !x
f'luier Brunough. f'lie Hammock, ! paths of life, also to give thanks to i sent to the market Tbe seKit::!
Mi-s. s tve Shellliorse and 0(vil Neffj Gotl for the many blessings U-stowevi pay ft r their fe
were pmsprrnu ksAing young men
with their wives and fat little babies
And it is the Utter that distinguish
wl the country from the city c-m-Uregati.ai.
The city Iwbwn do n-t
Ifti to rhurrh. while the country
stewanls are M N Kimler. J A
Burk. M J I ram-is. F L Burk. T
B Turner, ami A H Dunn
Among the isitors from a distance
were Mr and Mrs Frank Mullins of
Wills, M.i , ami SindfonI Lee ltker.
wo ita ycan haul Ni bushels tf ( at t. -n leil chinch at
corn to the hviwt instead of from 30 ! Tuesday night.
in ,vi. wnun wtis tne itvia prior to: Mrs r.rnest Uranstutter visited i
the r-sid being improve.! 'Mrs Steve Hows Friday night and!
me tiistant-e iroru HiimdrMge to 'Saturday
JefTers.ui f ity. in Jefferson countv, !
Tenn . is ten miles Before the eoun-!
ty issued Kmtls. this r.K.l was so Mrs Sadolph visit.sl at J. v lestion. ave mat ot a staiw-
Kid that 20 bushels of wheat made Hammocks Sunday. : 1,u Pn;"v,iw tatitT State IVm.-
a 1. utd for a two-horse team at I t ins Hamm.s k ami Miss Carrie , ,T'"U- im,1,ltt'p-
almost any time of the year, and alGh! a vompanied their la.tv friend j
day was required to make the trip i to the depot Sundav aftermm ;
if kept over a
Spring L.ke j upon us ourcountrv. and our nation i
V. L A i. uses
The tlemocratic platform rings
true on estrv issue There is no
Mr and Mrs. Kov Smith ,isitnl attempt at evasion. I lie reputuican
11,11, rv How. ,i.iv I Pi-'tfor'" "Iters a mum.sl sound on ,
' OA ...... t-
rwbies tlti. thus brjJinm.U early to '""-" '" m"" v "r,wo, Daindridge is the nninty seat and! Mrs Cliff, who has Is-en in the!"
Krow up in the way they sbtHikl go,
widt h is a very safe and sane plan
Miss
A presi.lt nt of one of the large
schools of the country says that he
I is and has been a republican all his
' .lfTri m (itv i th ru.anl rmlni.H h.ist i il nt flutivi' gui itiI muiLc
The above art hie is a rliptiing v t, . i . .u o .' , . ' 1 life, but intends to vote for Woodrow
IVre were ywin people ol Uth - Hiaq.uwK. tv is!mM ,WHhN 8tv, improvri ,hp j w ,, ..WVPll
wxes .s!-l.skiig ) HiinJser--i " nwls At the resent time "it)1 U Bill Thomas ami Mrs Nora
nntlthere wrre many, very many.! GOOfl Roads Notes 'bushels of wheat can be hauled over W.'h.ms visited Mrs Steve Hows
tieaut if ul women i4 all ng. Really.! The f.Jlowing are clippings from U vith a twiv horse team and a ! S.n.i i
I Wilson This is a straw showing
j which way the wind is blowing The
intelligent ami thoughtful vote
the eounirv is for Wilson.
of
it was a roost inspiring aodtenor. Farmers' Bulletin No 50. issued by round trip inatle in letriwi a day The big ice. cream rat at J W
arxl whether tliey liked what I said'the I'nitni States department of. It formerly cot la (Tut-, a bushel j Hamm.sk'i Sunday was well attentl-
or nit. they liatenrd to straight agriculture: to deliver whtMt at the dt -put. or ,"0
ufrnge fur more than an hour. A farmer in Sullivan rount. ornts ton-mile, whib- on the
without a si$n of a yawn. Tenn.. in 1WH, hud to haul barbed ! new road it 0019 4 rents per bushel
The prime reason ft the occasion j wirt from BrLtol toKingnort. a dis-jor 13 rents per ton mile about one
wa the annual ChiMreo'a day cele-: tancf of 23 nule He found that Quarter of the former hauling rost
hratHMi of Liberty church. All the I with his to-hore team his inati' Ther is a nval leatlmg out of
trogratn was (tt The little folks mum kwwl was oOO ptnintls ami that J Crosby. Tetas. whkh b itupnveI
rhd themsehre proiKl, ami llw sing- three days wrre neceasary to make 'one mile frvnn town. A farmer liv
ing under the Vraderahip of Frank j the round trip To haul one tonjintf four tmlr out came to tow n
L Butk waa mi enjoyable featuie. tlherefuee. required twrlve days, at with a team of mule and loaded on
SuiHTintemlent Shtippof the Anti
Saloon league, w ho has taken tie
contract of naming the dcm.vrati
guU'rnatorial candidate for Missoni i.
sas he is a d. nitsrat. but that I e the trough for it will our
third season
Grit and oyster shell should be in
cluded in the ration for Uuh young
and old To neglect this would
Hor economy
Young stock will do better if not
comix. lied to pit k their living with
the old. There will also !e less
trouble from lice
Shade i out1 of the most important
essentials during the hot months
Get the chicks into the orchard and
tvrntield It is not t.o late to plant
sun (lowers
A grow ing chick w nl not thn e on
short rations If the riht kind of
food is fed. there is little danger of
overfeeding, especially if tht y art
given plenty of range
Supplement the regular feeds with
a wet mash fedcrumblv Fvdail
the t hicks will clean up U-fore going
to roost, but none should Is- left in
ed and all enjoyed the invasion
Cutting wheat seems to be the
ont. r of the day.
W illie Ralph ami family visited at ! regrets he was a citiren of Ohio dir-. Mark the pullet this f ill so that
Mike Swfrtman's Siimiav
The little daughter of Mr ami
Mrs C.iis Gray was kicked on the
head List Monday hy a horse ami
suffered serious injuries, hut is im
proving some at this writing
ing tin- Hadlev-Oowherd campaign, you w ill know just how -old vmir hens
ami was therefore deprived of t'.elare A leg hand on the right leg tuie
pleasure of voting for 1 11 Icy Tl is : year ami on the left leg the nvt will
ought to establish his political status ' asis! in culling the fl.s k A mi:
w ith all Mtsaouri democrats. and tlicy ring will serve the pur; H L
shoukl resent his efforts to dictate to ! Kempster. in Missun mlU-geof agri-
Rut, as I sai I at the beginning. J $3.00 a day for man ami team, the his ag.ni at the railroad station 2 Visses Susan and Nancy Jennings than whom they sIkkiWJ support for culture press bulletin
Vik
