ical Society
ate Hi
,M ntO'
St
ANEY
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Vol. 21. No. 34.
KOUSYTII, MISSOURI, TUUKSDAY, JULY 0, 1910.
Four Pages.
When You Don't Advertise Nobody Knows That You are Doing Business, and it Won't he Long Before You'll Not Know it Yourself Newspaperdom
Our Heroes at Czrrizal
While our indignation Rrows as the
lads accumulate to prove that Ameri
can soldiers were treacherously attack
ed Irom ambush at Carrizal, and we
are filled with sorrow at the fate of
Capt. Boyd and his brave men, there
is admiration at their conduc. They
added new luster to the rcputatation of
American troops. It was an unequal
struggle. The Americans were net
only outnumbered, but they suffered
from a rain of bullets from a machine
gun, safely operated from a trench 250
yards away. They chose the only
course in keeping with the traditions
of as brave soldiers "as ever rode into
battle on i:s burning billows." Led
by their gallant captain, already
seriously wounded in the shoulder, they
set out to capture that machine gun.
Capt. Bcyd fell dead, with a bullet
through his eve, as the trench was
reached and the machine gun seized.
The force of Mexicans fled to a new
shelter, in an abode near by.
But there is no surprise in the way
that Capt. Boyd and his men sold their
lives. The surprise would have follow
ed their adopting any less heroic
course. The American troopers were
negroes, members of the Tenth Caval
ry. It is a regiment with a history re
splendent with deeds of daring. The
first brush tn the bandit hent, in which
there was the same disparity of num
bers against the Americans, although
the fighting conditions were more near
ly equal, was participated in by men
bers of the Tenth, under command of
Col. Dcdd. On that occasion they en
tered battle after riding for thirty-six
hours under disagreeable conditions.
They dispersed the enemy and kept
in hoi pursuit for hours. It was a
great xhibition of physical courage
and endurance. But the fight at Car
rizal was a greater moral demonstration.
There was b'lt remote chance for vic
tory. The negro troopirs spilled their
blood like water, knowing death was
certain. But they had the traditions
of service, the glory of America and
the unsullied reputation of "the fight
ing Tenth" to mantain. Globe Democrat.
which alone can develop the good
qualities of any race?" The ghastly
field at Carrizal makes answer that the
one duty of the present hour for us ii
to stand with our boys and support
them hart and soul with a purpose
and devotion single to the honor and
welfare of our own country. Globe
Democrat.
Did anyone perceive in the St Louis
platform of the Democratic party the
slightest reference to the taiiff as the
cause of the high cost of living? That
was their belief asset in the campaign
of 1912. Did Senator Ollie James
have anything to say about free sugar?
That was his prize piece of .slump
bunk in the campaign of 1912. Free
sugar was to save the housewife 2 cents
a pound on every pound she purchas
ed. The tariff on sugar was cut 25
per cent, to go on the free list May 1,
1916. The price did not budge
before the war broke out when it rose.
It is passing strange that the Demo
cratic party should have overlooked
their old friend, His Highness, Sir
Living Cost, in their 1916 platform,
but the party is as fickle as its chief
tain. War-Ordsr Notes
The French war department, through
its agent, Charles Goczelle has just
completed in New York the purchase
of 23,400,000 pounds of tobacco.
The tobacco will be shipped from
Louisville, Ky , in broad leaf form, to
be manufactured in France. There
will be 15,000 hogsheads, a total of
11,700 tons, which will yield quite a
nice little freight revenue to the rail
roads carrying it to New York, where
it will be loaded aboard ship. We are
to see Kentucky get a slice of our war
order prosperity, but we refuse to credit
it to the Democratic administration.
Russia is in the market of the Unit
ed Slates for 150,000 tons of steel rails
and 5,000 to 10,000 freight cars.
These cars are wanted to transport sup
plies from Bussia's eastern frontier to
to the firing line, over rails Made in
America. It begins to look as if Kitch
ener's forecast that the European war
would last three years is to be realized.
Unhappy Europt 1 Her misfortune is
temporarily our, financial gain, and out
of that misfortune th snout of the
! Dimocratic party has rooted its ' pros
perity" slogan.
The fall ia the price of spilter, d ie
to the falling off in th war demand,
has caused the value of zinc ores to
drop. The miners in Joplin, Missouri
district are compensated oo a sliding
scale bas'id on the monthly ore aver
ages. The price of spelter having
gone cff. the May wage of these min
ers has been lowered, they have voiced
a protest and threatened to strike.
When the Democratic campaign hera'ds
of prosperity appear before these Jop
lin miners, is likely they will V uch on
the subject of spelter? Yet this same
condition of affairs can readily be
brought about by a slump in the war
demand for any particular American
p-oduct.
Revival Meeting in the Bis Tent at Chad
wicH, K.o.
Begining on Sat. before the 3rd.
Sunday in July 1916, tht General Bap
tists will begin a 2 weeks revival meet
ing in their big tabernacle, conducted
by Rev, D. L. Actersco of Welling,
Okla. and Evangelist Morris F. Gilbert
ol Bell City, Mo.
These gentlemen are conceded to
b; the most able ministers in their re
spective Associations, aud they iavite
all people of all denominations to be
present, preachers aud all and lend a
hand to the upbuilding of the cause of
Christ in this community. Your crops
will be off your hands by this time, so
come prepared to stay during the meet
ing and ecjoy an outing on the top cf
the Ozarks. Everybody invited,
B? order of Committee
Tiia Attorney for MtX'co.
As our young men throughout the
country are being called, from the
pjaceful puriuits of every day life, to
arm in defense of the co)crs of their
country, the Republic of this cuy an
nounces that it holds a brief for Mexico
ol which it has given us two install
ments and ol which it premises many
more. With its own news columns,
filled with accounts of a base and per
fidous attack upon a detachment of
American troops, culminating in a
brutal an t wh olesale massacre, its edi
torial columns parade the belief which
assures us that the Mexican character
is a composite of the Azstec peon,
who is all patient industry and gentle
ness, ai.d the Spanish coq'iistador
who is ah ' dignity, ccurtesy and de
votion." Tne only eikness that it
discovers in the M xican is that hi has
the '.efrtds of his q ;aliti.-s. The mur
d r of our citiz ns who were in Mtxico
under the invitation ol its laws, the
biodit warfare of the M x :ans agaimt
o'her, daily staining the annals of the
list three years with unspeakible atroc
ities of rape and robbery and murder,
the raids across the border with their
niidnight attacks open peaceful, un
suspecting aud undefended home", we
are told are but the reverse side of the
M x c ;n good q ialiiie. And wilh ali
these wiongs unavenged, with the
bodies of cur soldiers, dead because of
their belief in Mexican gentleness and
courtesy, still unburhd, and their blood
t ill r d staining the sanr!i of the dei
ert, the Ripuolic, the attorney for
M- XX"', asks out people, as thtir sons
are puttiug on the uniform and hurry
lag to the b rd-rr "Has not the hour j It is the inevitable you will have
arrived (or us to take up the task I to be a Republican or a Democrat in
helping the Mexican people with their 1916.
More Congressional News
David W. Hill, one of the candi
dates for the Republican nomicaticn
for Congressman, while in the Cape
yesterday intimated that former Post
master E. W. Flentge and former U.
S Marshall E. F. Regcnhardt are mak
ing a punch-.irid-j.idy show out of
Henry S. Wilson of Ava.
"Mr. Wilsons only strength lies in
figures in the Missouri Blue Book,
manipulated by his Cape County statis
ticians, who are endeavoring to ccunt
me out with their musty, moldy ad
dition and subtraction," Mr. Hill said.
Mr. Hill spent Friday afternoon and
yesterday morning campaigning in the
southern part of the county. He was
accompanied by County Chairman W.
L. Mabrey, Blucher Sperling and Fred
Kies.
"Mr. Hill will have a large majority
over both his opponents in this coun
ty," Captain Mabrey declared at the
conclusion of the trip yesterday.
"As for what Flentge and Regenhardt
are doing, they are political morgue
keepers'."
"They are stepping side-wise," an
other prominent Republican said, try
ing to get in the band wagon of any
candidate who appears to be a live
wire, so they may ride into power again.
As a matter of fact, they are about as
popular out here in the county as they
are in the Cape. They couldn't elect
a man as night janitor at the city jiil."
"With a conglomeration of figures
the Cape Republican tries to leave the
impression that Wilson will cany the
six west end counties," Mr. Hill said.
Anyone familiar with the situation
realizes that Wilson cannot do that,
and I am constrained to believe that
he will undoubtedly lose three of the
west end counties and possibly five.
"The same combine would leave
the impression that I will receive no
votes in the west end of the district,
while the fact is, in the primary cam
paign of August, 1910, when I was a
candidate against Congressman Crow,
who was out for re election, I received
those six counties a total ol 3,179
votes, and with the same relative total
of votes in those counties this time,
wilh three candidates in the field, I
will carry a maj irity of those counties.
"In Christian County I got 797 vntes
after I had made but two speeches,
enough to give me the county in a
three-cornered race. In Ozark county
I got 490 votes as a result of one
speech, and in Taney County alter
one da's campaigning. I got 405
voles. Ia both those counties the
vote I received would have given me
the county in a three comer race.
"And I have every reason to be
lieve that the vote I will receive in
in the west end in this campaign will
far exceed that of 19 10."-Cape
Girardeau Daily Tribune.
Thinning the Fruit!
Thinning is an operation that has
been practiced to only a very limited
cx'.ent in Missouri. An occasional
man has thinned a few trees, more as
a matter of curious inquiry than as a
definite orchard practice. Where the
operation has to any degree been care
fully performed the results have been
outstanding and the Missouri Agri
cultural Experiment Station finds that
i. rays well.
Those varieties which tend usually
to over-bear and produce under sized
fruit may be thinned to a profitable ad
vantage. The siz' and quality of
such varieties as Winesap, Missouri
Pippin, Ralls, and Ingram can almost
always be improved by careful thinning
and itwill often pay to thin such varie
ties as Jonathan, Grimes or York.
HOW TO THIN
The quality of wellgn. m fruit is al
ways superior to that which is small and I
poorly developed. If the crop isj
evenly distributed throughout the tree
perhaps four to eight inches, accord' j
wormy. On trees with a heavy set of ;
fruit, thinning all the fruit from part ol :
the spurs tends to cause such spurs to
develop fruit buds-for the next year's
thereby encouraging regular bearing.
Tne earlier the work is done the leis
drain there is on the vigor of the tree
Surplus fruit can be handled at less ex
pense by thinnin? than by running it
over a sorting table at packing time.
In his West Point address President
Wilson said: "Never since I was a
youngster have I been afraid of a noisy
man. I have always feared a quiet
one. lhis may explain wny ne
cautioned the Democratic party not to
deal in personalities in the coming
campaign. Hughes is a silent man
with au awful punch.
Prune the Fruit Trees
June or early July is the time to do
summer pruning. It has less tenden
cy to stimulate the growth of water
sprouts than winter pruning. At this
time the year's growth is already larg
ely made. For the remainder of the
season the trees are largely occupied
in maturing the wood and developing
the fruit buds. Wounds made during
this season of the year heal better
than those made in winter.
Pruning more than any other oper
ation affects the size, quality, and fin
ish of the fruit, especially of those
varieties which have a tendency to
over bear. It also has a tendency to
regulate bearing, especially if it is
systmatically and regularly done.
In summer prunning, thin out some
ol the smallesr and moderate sized
branches in thr outer portion of the
tree. Those which help to shad the
inner portion smother the smaller
growth and prevent the fruit from ma
turing properly. In addition, pruning
generally tends to lessen the cost and
facilitates the performance of other
operations such as spraying and picking-
Late, and Unimportant
The President's action in mobiliizing
the National Guard for service on the
Mexican border may not unfairly be
characterized as late, reluctant and un
important. Alrer three years ol "watch
ful waiting," after insults innumetable,
alter the loss of hundreds of American,
lives soldiers and civilians alter the
destruction of millions of dollars' worth
ol American property, alter the ruth
less violation cf our soil, and after to
complete the shameful chain ol com
pelling infl lences his renomination,
the President took a step which should
have been taken long ago.
It may be too late. Our prestige
has suffered so much in all our dealings
with Mexico since 1913 that it may
now be impossible to restore ourselves
to any position of influence and power.
It is altogether likely that we can deal
successfully with the troops which
Carranza can command. But what
seall we do then? Shall we pick an
other from among them, the rival cut
throats who have ravaged Mexico and
New Mexico at will? Or shall we
take over the task of restoring Mexico
to sanity and good government?
When Carranza is defeated, it may be
that the election will be over. In that
case will the beaten Wilson again turn
to watchful waiting"?
Again the Democratic platform de
clares the right of American citizens to
the protection of their government.
But what American citizens want is
protection not mere platform declar
ations. The planks of the Democratic
platform could not float the vic.iras of
the Lusitania.
"What has become of the oldtime
Ohio Republican who used to show op
every four years as a nominee for the
Presidency?" asks George Bailey of
Houston Post, he is out on the
stump working for Charels Evans
Hughes, Gawge!
J. H. PAERISII, President. J. W. REESE, Vice-Pbssidsnt.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashier.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
Foksytu, Missouri.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
$25,000.00.
140,000.00.
A Genural Hanking Business Transacted
Collections a Specialty
Your Patronage Solicited
C. W. MOORE, President. F. M. HALL, Vice-President.
A. B. MOOR I'.. Cashier.
Bank of Hollister,
Hollister, Mo.
Capital Stock
- $lo,ooo.oo.
Surplus and Undivided Profits, $2,000
Transacts a (Jeneral Hanking Business.
WT. PAY -I PF.lt CENT INTEKEST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
flf T U Ml! I : TrocJ.lf.nt
M. 1.5. SLUSIIER, Cashier
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned,
$10,000.0?
2,000.0?
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOUR BUSINESS
J 1 MILLION, E.G. MILLS, J. U. MILLS,
J. T- McPHERSON, M. V.. SLUSIIER, Directors
Fine Place to Fish
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Fine Place to Stop
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. "PECK" MILLER,
Proprietor.
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
A man may be an expert at editing
There will be a million more to size of variety, is a good distance a twelve page newspaper, and yet not
great capacity lot loyalty, sflection and Republicans than Democrats. McVille b 'tween fruits. Lrave only fruit on a know very mnch about running the
taithful work to that ie l government (N. D.) Journal. spur. If two are left both will be navy. Trenton )N J.) State Gazette.
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield,
Missouri
