BAREE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 95.
HAIiRH. VERMONT, TIIUHSDAV, JULY rt, 1016.
PRICE, OXK CENT.
HE
S
TWO SUCCESSES
FOR GERMANS
NORTHOF HEM
Fight inj: Back Against the
French Drive South of the
River Somme, They Cap
tured Two Small Works
Near a Village Which the
French Seized in Assault
Late Yesterday
FRENCH REPULSE!)
NEAR FORT VAUX
Attempt! Were Made to Advanc South
west of the Fort Also Etlorta to
Recapture Damloup Hill Bat
tery Failed.
Berlin, vim Ixmdon, July Attempt
made bv the French vefrHv to advance
in the wood southwest of Fort Vux in
the Verdun sector were repulsed, accord
ing to the official statement to day. Sim
ilar effort by the French to recapture
the Dmuloiip hill battery were unsueeees-fill.
CAPTURE OF HEM.
MAY NOT NEED
MEDIATION
United States and Carranza
May Re Able to Settle
Their Differences
CLAMOR GROWS
FOR REPRISAL
TONE OF THE REPLY
LEADS TO BELIEF
SLIGHT FRENCH GAIN
IN THE SAME REGION
jGerman Counter-Attack on
Belloy, South of the Som
me, Was Easily Repulsed
by the French, Who Cap
tured 76 Cannon and Sev
eral Hundred Machine
Guns
Paris, .Tul v- 6, Last night was gen
erally quiet north and south of the river
Nomine, says to-day's official statement.
There were a few locul engagements
north of the river, in which the (iernians
captured two small works north of Hem,
and the French also captured a small
wood. South of the river a German
counter attack on Bellov was easily re
pulped. Thi French have captured
cannon and several hundred machine
guns.
There wus no infantry fighting on the
Verdun front. The war office says the
Germans are attempting to bombard the
cathedral at Verdun.
London, July 6. Having captured the
whole German second line south of the
river Somme, from the river to Belloy,
the French have resumed operations
north of the river and have cleared the
bank almost to Clery. The British are
still heavily engaged all along their front
from Hrt'Sdecotirt to Oommecourt. rsot
withstanding the heavy German counter
attack they have been able to maintain
the ground gained and to extend it in
tome points.
As the German trenches are occupied
the evidence accumulates of the deadly
execution of the artillery. In some eases
SO per cent of the defenders were killed
by the terrific shelling. British observers
express satisfaction with the progress
made without heavy casualties and with
the taking of 18,000 prisoners and a great
quantity of war material together with
the subsequent losses inflicted in counter
attacks. It is believed here that the
German power of resistance must have
been weakened.
The Russians continue to record suc
cesses, some of them of great importance,
along the whole front from Riga to Dela
tyn, west of Kolomea and Korcsmezo and
before Iarnapol.
Was Followed by Seizure of Manacu
Farm by the French.
Paris, .Julv . The French official
statement last night wa ns follow:
North of the Somme our troop con
tinued their offensive during the dav and
captured the slpe south of Mamelon to
'the north of lurlu. East of this vil
lage our infantry carried by assault the
second German position which was com
pletely captured on a front of two kilo
meters from the I'lerv Maricourt road to
the river. Pressing our advantage fur
ther to the east, we attacked and carried
the village of Hem after a spirited bat
tle. The Monaeit farm also fell into our
hands. In the course of these actions,
.100 soldiers and three officers were made i
nrisntinra lit- lis
"South of the Somme we repuLed ernineiit.
, ... ... i. ii.il rvrieiHry u
rfiuriMT hi hick ny i rie enemy ix-iu't-
En-Santerre and ejected the German
from the part of the village of F.strees
which thev still occupied. A dctavjimcnt
of the enemv which was holding a mil!
north of this locality was compelled to
surrender and we took here 2M prison
ers. Trenches running between Ketrees
and Belloy having been occupied ry us
the entire second position of the Germans
south of the Somme itt now in our hands
on a front of about 10 kilometers.
,-On the Xorth Verdun front there were
intermittent bombardments during the
day.
"In Ixiraine, after artillery prepara
tion, the enemy attacked our positions
in the region of St. Martin, east of Lune
ville. and succeeded in obtaining a foot
ing in our trenches at three points. Our
counter attacks immediately drove them
out and we reoccupied all the lost
ground."
Undoubtedly Despatch of
Troops to the Border Had
Considerable Influence
odds In the hope tht reinforcements siHn
would arrive.
At nightfall after their leader bad
been killed and the greater part of the
command killed or wounded, the surviv
or retired to .limine with their wound
ed. After the Corral clash, the garrison t
Santa Roialiu wss rushed south to guard
Jiminer, against any attack. In the
meantime. 2,oh troops including the fa- The German People Are De
mous brigade of Domingo Arrets, were .
sent south to attack the forces which cut
off General Ramos' command. General
MacLnvin Garcia, who is in charge of the
campaign, is keeping in, close communica
tion with General Trevino.
manding Resumption of
Submarine Warfare
AMERICAN SLAIN
IN SANTO DOMINGO
AGAINST COMMERCE
Oil ENTENTE ALLIES
Washington, D. C July ".After a
conference with President Wilson, at tho
White Houso to-day, Secretary of State
Lansing said he thought a reply would;
soon 1m made to ( arrana s note. It wai
understood that all negotiations between
this government and ("arran will be
conducted through regular diplomatic
channel and direct lv between the two
27 Rebel Were Killed and Five Were
Captured in Fight Before Disarma
ment Agreement Was
Made.
Washington, V. "., July rt. Another
engagement between 251 revolutionists in
Si,iIa rinminiM miA ImaH-in marina. In
,.,,, , ' Berlin, Julv 5, via London. July 6.
which 2, Dominican were killed and five Un,. .,.: j fav., Ih. ,..mtin
Claim British Have Made
No Change in Block
ade Methods y
MAINE PROGRESSIVES
QUIT BUSINESS
.Musing was with President
Wilson about 20 minutes and said he
went over most, of the important mat
ters now In-fore tin state department.
Secretary Lansing starts on his vacation
to-morrow but will attend the cabinet
meeting before leaving.
Officials believe that the call for the
National Guard and the actual dispatch
of the troops to the border was the im
pelling influence which induced General
Carranza to abandon the hostile atti
tude in his previous notes. They say
the I'nited States holds a strong argu
ment in favor of peaceful solution of
border difficulties as long as it maintains
The camnaiini in favor of the resumption
were captured and one marine wss killed of a full fledced submarine war on com-
and eight were wounded, was reported to merre goes energetically forward. Never
ine navy department to nay tiy Hear Aa- a day passes without articles in the
miral t'aperton. The fight occurred July newspapers to remind the people that ac-
1 ivciore ine lenianve agreement was cording to the German note the modirica-
made for disarmament of the rebels. Uion of German submarine methods waa
The agreement wa regarded by ofli- merely temporary and contingent upon
eials here as indicating the collapse of modification of the British blockade,
the revolution led by (ieneral Anas, and which, it is declared, has not undertone
, i i . . .... ... . . .
loresiianowmg an eariy res.ormon oi the slightest modification since the uis
peace in the turhulent little republic so I patch of the last note.
that the contemplated new regime with Some judges of the situation, basing
American supervision similar to tftt now their opinion on the extent and vigor of
exercised in Haiti might soon be estab- the agitation, are inclined to believe that
lished. the movement will lead not later than
Admiral Capcrton. Amer!"an Minister September to a revival of the submarine
Russell and the archbishop of Santo Do- campaign along the old lines. Recent in-
iningo were present at the peace confer- quiries by the Associated Press in au-
ence, co operating with the commissions thoritative quarters indicate, however,
representing the Arias and government that the movement for the present lias
factions. "Hie admiral himself submitted no intention of resuming the freedom of
the proposal for disarmament. The peace action mentioned in the May note and of
commissioners asked that the conference provoking a conflict with the L'nited
aiso riiseuss internal anairs ami me in- states.
an armv near the line and there seems It lire form of government, but withdrew
RUSSIANS CUT OFF
AUSTRO-GERMANS
Have Taken the Principal Line of Rail
road for the Troops Defending Lem
berg, and Have Routed Enemy
on Right Bank of Dneister.
Petrograd, via London, July 6. The
Russians have cut the Delatyn-lvoros-uiezo
railway, the principal line of com
munications for the Austro-German
forces defending Lemberg and have rout
ed the enemy on the right bank of the
Dneister, according to an official state
ment issued by the war office.
The official communication from gen
eral headquarters issued yesterday reads:
"On the lower Styr and on the front
between the Styr and Stokhed and fur
ther south as far as the region of the
lower Lipa everywhere there have been
most desperate battles.
"Jn the region of Vulkaliz Galouzlskai
we broke through three lines of barbed
vire entanglements fitted with land
mines. In a very desperate fight on the
Stvr weht of Kolki we overthrew the
enemy and took more than 1,000 prison
ers, including 170 officers, together with
throe gun. 17 machine guns, two search
lights and several thousand rifles.
"A bridging detachment lent the troops
most useful aid in keeping pace with the
i'gliting units and working close to the
lirmjr line.
"In the region north of Zaturze and
near Yolia Sadovska we seized the first
line of enemy trenches. We stopped by
artillerv tire an enemv attack on Schk-l.nc
"In the region of the lower Lipa the
ii"in made a most stubborn attack
v ithout re'ult. The enemy, who crossed
the Stvr iiboe the mouth of the Lipa
n ar the village of Peremel. was attacked
bv us and driven back to the riTer. Here
made prisoners of seven officers and
?.", men and captured two machine guns,
"On the Gslician front in the direction
of the t arpathians there was an artillery
action. Our left wing continues to press
tr.e enemy hack-. W the r-ad between
Kolomea and IVIatyn we captured after
fvM the village of Sadzadka. At the
bayonet point we took prisoner nine offi
cers and 3f"1 soldier and raptured two
6;ai hire guns.
In the Gulf of Riga an enemy aro
' plane which dropped bombs cn our ships
wss broueht down by our aviators and
two panger were taken prisoner. Lat
er, in a ornd aeroplane duel we brought
5a a sni'thcr German machine, which
foH -n the o-iast. One of our aeroplanes
br-n-ight dn. We ot P:M Lieut
Jrr"KofT tr. l MTlianician NazarofT, wW
d:e4 fcerotsaJ;j."
Resolution Adopted Making It Possible to
Withdraw All Candidates of Party,
Only One Dissenting Vote.
Augusta, Me., July 6. The Progressive
party in Maine practically went out of
existence yesterday afternoon in a meet
ing at the Augusta house, when resolu
tions were adopted by the state commit
tee making possible the withdrawal of
all Progressive candidates.
The resolutions were carried with only
one dissenting vote, that of James A.
lulsifer of Auburn, the Progressive can
didate for Congress in the second dis
trict. They were a follows:
"Resolved, in view of the national po
litical situation and Moines early elec
tion, as bearing upon it, it is the sense of
this meeting that the omission of any
candidate nominated on the Progressive
ticket at the primaries, to file his ac
ceptance of the nomination to the office
for which he has been nominated, is
justifiable, and will merit no censure
from the Progressives throughout the
state."
After the meeting, Halbert V. Gardner
of Patten, the member of the Progressive
national committee from Maine, made
the following statement:
"No attempt was made, or suggested at
this meeting to bind the rank and file of
the Progressive party to sny candidate
or party."
little probability that they will with
Iraw until danger has passed.
I'miiiestionablv,- if no new bandit out
breaks occur, the National Guardmen
will be gradually sent Iwck to their
homes. It originally was planned that
only a part of the force be used on the
border, the remainder being sent later
to relieve regiments which had put in
the reouired time at, active service. It
is possible that this scheme will be fol
lowed later.
TEXT OF CARRANZA REPLY.
PUT DYNAMITE IN STOVE.
Woman Thought It Was Bologna Sau
sage Kitchen Wrecked.
Brockton. Mass., July 6. Mr. and Mrs.
George B. Whittemore. with their three
children, moved into their new house at
35 Wilson street, Monday. Yesterday
afternoon while arranging furniture and
cleaning Mrs. Whittemore found a little
paper bag in a corner of the parlor.
which, she thought, contained a little roll
of bologna sausage. She put it in the
stove with some other rubbish smd soon
after started a fire.
Soon she noticed thick, black smoke
rolling out of the stove and called her
husband. He looked a't the range fpr a
few seconds, then hurried his w ife out of
the kitchen, followed mid slammed the
loor. Almost as he did so the bouse was
rocked by an explosion which reduced the
stove to scrap iron and tore great holes
in the celling and walls of the kitchen.
Other rooms in the house, save the one
directly over the kitchen, were not dam
aged. Fortunately, the three children
had left the house a little while before
to play in the yard.
Mr. Whittemore telephoned to Chief of
Police William F. Daley, who assigned
Inspector Alexander J. Brouillard to the
case. j
Joseph Brogga. from whom the house
was bought, and who lives in West
Bridgewater. said that he could not imag
ine how the dynamite came to be in the
house, as he had been all through it lat
rnda v.
VERMONT AERO CLUB
IS ORGANIZED
James Hart n ess of Springfield Was Elect
ed President at the Meeting Held
in Burlington.
Burlington. Julv 6. The Vermont Aero
club waa formed here to-day with these
officers: President. James Hartnes of
Springfield; vi-e-president. Lee S. Tillot-
on of St. AJbant ; secretary, J. P. Tay
lor of Burlington; treasurer, H. R. Rob
erts of Xorthield; governing board. Gov
ernor Clates. Colonel I. L. Reeves. Walla,
Bstcheider. C. C. Fitts. Horace F. .r
bam, Kedf.eli Ptrwtor, W. A. S bofield.
P. Tavlr. James Hartnes. Admiral
K. fc. IVart-. trovenior (f rv! A. "
Pot were tie sreskfrt at the meetir.r.
Hopes American Government Will Try to
Prevent Complications.
Washington. D. C, July 6. The text
of the Carranza note, as transmitted by
Eliseo Arredondo. the Mexican ambassa
dor designate, follows:
"Washington, P. C, July 4, 101(1.
"Mr. Secretary: I have the honor to
transmit in continuation the text of
note I have just received from my gov
errftnent with instructions to present to
your excellency.
"Mr. Secretary! On the 2.th last I
had the honor to sav that the immediate
release of the Carrizal prisoners was
further proof of the sincerity of the de
sire of this government to reach a tacit
and satisfactory arrangement of present
difficulties.
"This government is anxious to solve
the present conflict, and it would he un
just if its attitude were misinterpreted.
"It was also the Mexican government
that earnestly suggested a plan for can
tonments along the boundary line during
the conferences of Ciudad, Juarez Rnd
El Paso. This government is disposed
now, ns it has always been, to seek an
immediate solution of the two points
which constitute the two causes of the
conflict between the countries, through
which the American government believes
reasonably that the insecurity of its
frontier is a source of difficulty, and the
Mexican government on its part believes
that the status of American troops on
Mexican territory, aside from being a
trespass on the sovereignty of Mexico,
is the imnnedinte cause of the conflict.
"Therefore, the withdrawal of Ameri
can troops, on one hand, and the protec
tion of the frontier on the other, are the
two essential problems, the solution of
which must be the directing objects of
the efforts of both governments.
"The Mexican government is willing
to consider in a quick and practical way
and prompted by a spirit of concord the
remedies which should be applied to the
present situation.
Several Latin-American countries have
offered their friendly mediation to the
Mexican government, and the latter has
accepted it in principle. Therefore, the
Mexican government only awaits infor
mation that the government of the Unit
ed States would be disposed to accept
this mediation for the purpose mentioned
above or whether it is still the belief
that the same results may be obtained
by means of direct negotiations be
tween both governments.
"In the meantime, this government
proposes to employ all efforts that may
be at its disposal to avoid the recurrence
of new incidents which may complicate
the situation. At the same time, it is
hoped that the American governmerft on
its part may make use of all efforts to
prevent also new acts of its military and
civil authority at the frontier that might
cause new complications.
"I avail myself of this opportunity to
reiterate to your excellency the assur
ance of most distinguished consideration.
(Signed) "C. Aguilar."
i: e : . t--:
ineir nifmun hit inn lime oenip on Tfr"mT T?r17,0'Tl?r
the admiral's promise that the American I Uit AlvivCiO I EjU,
force would pursue and break up all
forces operating against the peace of the
country.
Officials Were confident that the re
sumption of negotiations would result in
a complete agreement upon the plan for
American direction of Dominican affairs,
particularly collection of revenues and
disbursement. Proposal of a new treaty
to accomplish that purpose is expected to
MAKING TENTH
Dr. John J. Shannahan of Feabody, Mass.,
Is Accused of Being Accessory in
the Death of Margaret
Ward.
HETTY GREEN LEFT
ESTATE TO CHILDREN
There Art Some Small Bequest to Mrs,
Creen'e Old Friends Will Wjs
Filed at Bellows Falls After
the Funeral
Salem. Mass., July 6. Dr. John J.
be one of the first steps after the rebels Shannahan of Peabody, the tenth person
disarm. lairested in connection with the death of
The present revolutionary movement, I Margaret Ward of Peabodv, was ar
one of many within the past few years, I raigned in district court to-day, charged
began a little over two months ago. I with being an accessory after the tact ot
About 2,100 American marines and blue- illegal medical practice. He pleaded not
jackets have been landed to protect guilty and wae released under bonds for
American interests and help in restoring a hearing July 12, when six other men
order, and three engagements with the arreted here will also appear in court,
revolutionists have occurred withfn the l lie lioston police are noiding tlnee worn
past week.
RAIN RELIEVES SOLDIERS.
Storm Welcomed at El Paso After Swel
tering Heat.
El Paso, Tex., July 6. Rains along Saturday night and that -Dr. Shannahan
en, who were taken from a house in Rox
bury, aa witnesses, and are said to be
seeking others. .
The police said that thev did not be
lieve Ir. Shannahan was the first to treat
Mis Ward: that, according to their in
formation, the young woman was taken
this section of the border and over north
ern Chihuahua yesterday marked the ad
vent of the rainv season and promised
increased difficulties in operating the mo
tor transportation system to the Amer
ican troops in Mexico.
Army men here pointed out, however,
that adequate preparation have been
visited her Monday night and Tuesday
The physician refused to discuss the case,
The women detained in Boston were
resident of the Roxfxirv district, from
which place, Sexton told the police, Miss
YA nrd was taken
When Captain Herbert W. Goodwin of
the Dudley street station, Roxburv
made to prevent General Pershing's com- lwned th.it the authorities in Salem
mand from running out of supplies. "oiuuig ine i eaoooy doctor in con-
The rains brought relief to thousands neetion with the death of the Ward girl,
of swelterine National Guardsmen from the three young women who had been
the Atlantic states. Many of JJiem went M1 in the guardroom since morning
outside their tents and stood in the weie separately confronted witn tne lat
downpour until they had been drenched. "t developments in hopes that they
The first Pennsylvania infantry ar- would break down and tell what they
rived here last night with the second and knew, if anything, about the mysterious
third regiments expected to follow quick- lease,
GIVEN ANTI-TYPHOID SERUM.
Vermont Troops Get Their First Injec
tion at Eagle Pass.
When the girls were questioned for the
last time before being placed in cells
shortly before h o clock, they were just
as reticent as they had been all through
the day when they were continually,
quizzed by Captain Goodwin, Sergeant
H imam J. Hynn and Special Officer Dan
Eagle Pass, Texas, July 6.-Less than W J-Jiin No"e of them would admit
h im imiijK Bii'nii tiitr ratM una me repvm-
Ofl questioning of the pirls failed to make
port, according to reports yesterday to V'?"1 JtTr thpl origin.. 1 story that they
(ieneral Greene. Especial care has been ,r J ,rl ",u,,e
taken in sanitary arrangements of the f, "v- r Ij 7, '
camps and plans now are under way for Onild.ne Ptfie d. aged 16, the young
the erection of a base hospital capable ot ?' "f ers under arrest was
caring for all the men stationed on this the first questioned after word of the ar
section of the border. .rf"st .f t,,e lootor Wn recelvpd ln
The three National Guard regiments this city.
from Vermont, Kansas and Maryland (UShe f" '"r h?u k"7 n?
now here have passed the necessary ex- h,m? w h" eer "bmi,1 vCaPtaln
am;,,o;.. ...j , f i,m t.,.. i, Goodwin then ordered that she be form-
mv t,-r,iw,i,i r.n.;'..n ra,t. "' PIa,pd 'n(,,r arrest, booked as a sns-
vi ." i...i .; . .... u :i . . picious person and placed in a cell. The
ment will be completed here and those
not, vaccinated against smallpox will
undergo this precaution immediately
placed
young girl kept her courage up until she
was being led to a cell, where she was
placed in care of Mrs. Keenan. the police
, .. i I. .. : -i J t
The 1-ust Maryland regiment arrived ,. , , , ., . .. . ,
. , , . - , , ., the basement of the station house she be
gan to cry. She dried her tears within a
few minutes and later when the other
two girls were placed in cells all three
seemed content and equally as reticent
a.s before.
Bellows Falls, Julv 6 The w ill of Mrs.
Hetty Green, long known in the wealth
iest woman in America, leaves the bui
of her estato to her son, Col. K. H. R.
Green, and her daughter, Mrs. Matthew
Astor Wilks. The remainder is distrib
uted in smaller bequests to old friend
of Mrs. Green.
No estimute of the total value of the
estate is contained in the will and the
closing clause provides that the son and
daughter shall not be required to file an
inventory or appraisement or give bonds
and 'shall not be required to account in
or to be subjected to the jurisdiction of
the probate court.
I he will, a document of "0 typewritten
pages, was filed by Colonel Green and
Charles W. Pieron, an attorney of New
York, in the office of the probate judge
after the funeral here yesterday. Judgo
raham set July 22 as the date of the
hearing. The instrument is dated March
28. 1!11. It was witnessed by Hoffman
Miller of Tuxedo, N. Y., and James
Smith and Mrs. Fay Smith, both of Ho-
boken, . J.
After directing that all expenses in
curred through Sirs. Green's illness and
funeral shall be paid promptly several
tokens of esteem to friends are be
queathed.
I no will disposes of the estate of Mrs.
Green's husband as directed in his wil!.
This property goes to the son and (laugh,
ter with the provision that it is given
to the exclusion of any interest there
in or control thereof by any wife or hus
band whom He or she has or may wed.'
All jewelry, household furniture, por
traits, paintings and other personal ef
fects of Mrs. Green are to fie divided
equally between son and daughter as
they may agree.
A trust fund is then provided for the
daughter, and the son is directed to
serve as trustee without pay in order
that the daughter may have the bene
fit of his experience. The will provides
that certain bonds and mortgages shall
bfl held in trust by the son and daughter
r ten years, the income to be geven to
the daughter every three months and the
pital to revert to her at the termina
tion of the trust.
The residue of the estate is left to
the son and daughter "in trust for ten
years." No stipulation appears in the
will as to the disposition of the estate
after the trust expires.
Colonel Green and Mrs. Wilks are
named as joint executors. If one fails
to perform the duties required, the docu
ment provides tliat the other shall be
given full power.
Immediately after the will waa filed
the funeral party left on the evening
train for New ork.
inn llrnr i rvrT
ouu went luoi
IN EARTHQUAKE
Victims Were Working iir
Sicilian Sulphur Mines
. at the Time i
MINES CAVED IN
AND BURIED r ZM
Catastrophe 0c .ed
Laltatissetta, ifiys a
Rome Despatch -
at.
London, July 6. A violent earthquake
at Caltatissetta, Sicily, killing 300 people,
is reported in an Exchange Telegraph
company despatch from Rome. The vic
tims were in three sulphur mines, which
caved in.
BAR RE FIRM INCORPORATED.
FUNERAL LARGELY ATTENDED.
Great Outpouring of Friends at James S.
Milne's Services.
The funeral of James S. Milne, who
died suddenly while in camp at Highgate
Springs Sunday afternoon, was held
from the Presbyterian church yesterday
afternoon, Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor,
officiating. The church proper and- bal
cony were filled with relatives and friends
of the deceased, whose long service as a
worker in the church and Sunday school
and as a manufacturer had made for him
large acquaintance. A short praver
service was held at the house preceding
the service at the church at 2 o clock
During the service George F. Mackay
sang, ".Must Jesus Hear the Cross Alone?
and "Face to Face."
Many beautiful floral eetpieces accom
panied the casket. Clan Gordon, No. 12
O. S. C, whose chief at one time was Mr,
Milne, attended in a body and their ritual
was used at the grave in Elmwood ceme
tery.
The pall bearers were: James Mackay
and George loung. representing the Pres
bvterian church; William Cole and James
Henry of Clan Gordon. Alexander Gordon
of the Masons and William IXincan of
the stoneshed employes.
Marr & Gordon Co. Files Articles of As
sociation. Articles of association have been filed
by the Marr & Gordon Co., Inc., of Barre, '
w ith the secretary of state's office at '
Montpelier, The capital stock is $.Vt,Qn0
and tlie incorporators are Alexander Gor- .
don, George Mutch and William Calder.
The purpose of the corporation is to con
duct a granite business in Barre.
The Aero Club of Vermont filed ar
ticles, with' headquarters at Burlincton,
and with the names of It" signers at
tached, the leading name being James
Hirtne-3 of Springfield.
The Pittsford Masonic association is
incorporated for the purpose of purchas
ing property and holding a lodge room for
Otter Creek lodge, No. 70, K. and A. M.
L. S. Kimball and 16 others are the sign- I
ers of the papers.
The Connecticut Valley Telephone Co.,
to which the Vermont public service com
mission recently gave a certificate, has
liecome incorporated with capital stock
of $50,000, divided into 2,000 shares. The
purpose is to conduct a telephone bus
iness in Caledonia and Orange counties in
Vermont and in several New Hampshire
towns along the Connecticut river. The
signers are G. Nelson Riiley of Wells
River. E. T. George of Wells River, L. S.
Blanchard of Groton, F. Ralph Pierce of
Fairlee, G. M. Marshall of Bradford, M.
E. Morrison of Piermont. N. H., and Fred
S. Storey of Laconia, N. H.
DIED FROM FALL.
CHURCH CENTENNIAL OBSERVED.
MEXICANS IN BATTLE.
Carranza and Villa Forces Lost Heavily
Near Jiminei.
Chihuahua. Mexico. July 4, via El Paso
Junction, July 6. General Ignacio Ra
mos was killed in a fierce and bloody
battle that raged all yesterday between
a small force of de facto troops and a
large band of Villa followers at Corral
ranch. IS miles southwest of Jimine.
Both sldee suffered heavy losses.
Rather than retire to Jiminez without
carrying' out his order, which were not
to return itnlee h was able to report
success, (ieneral Ramos fought in his en
trenchments until killed, cheering his
men on to the last.
The Carranza troops wre turroimiie-1
Monday at davbreak. and for rn.re than.
yesterday during a drenching rain, the
first experienced here since January.
One private of the Vermont regiment
was operated upon for appendicitis at
the hospital here yesterday. This was
the third case in that particular company
since the regiment has mobilized.
MILITIA TO ENTER MEXI'U).
Massachusetts Troops to Assist in De
fense of Pershing's Line.
' Columbus, N. M-. July . Parts of
the Massachusetts and New Mexico Na
tional Guard organizations mobilized
here will be sent into Mexico within the
next few days to assist in guarding Gen.
Pershing's line of communication. This
was announced officially at military
headquarters here late yesterday.
AMERICAN MINERS
MAY NOT ENLIST
INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
In Canadian Overseas Units, According to
Orders Just Issued in New Bruns
wick.
St. John, N. B . July Vouths under
21 born in the l'nited States or whose
next of kin reside thm will not be per-
in anadtan over'
Named to Look Into Case of German
Professor at State University.
Burlington. July 6. A committee to
investigate the alleged pro-German ae
tivities of A. H. Appelmann. professor of
German at the I'niversity of Vermont,
was appointed to-day by Ralph A. Stew-
art of Boston, president of the I'niversity
of Vermont Alumni association, agree
able to a resolution passed bv the asso
ciation at commencement. The commit
tee is mtde up a follows: H. B. Shaw
'frt. of Burlington. Edwin W. Lawrence,
01. of Rutland. Edward H. Deavitt.
of Montpelier, Professor Carroll V. Do
ten. '!. of Cambridge. Mass.. and Merton
C. Bobbins. "US. of New- York. A hear
ine is set for the middle of July at Burlington.
Granite Marker with Bronze Tablet Un
veiled at Brattleboro.
Brattleboro. July 6. The first day of
the five days' celebration of the cen
tennial of the Center Congregational
church was held yesterday on the vil
lage common where the original church
first stood. A granite marker with bronze
tablet suitably inscribed was unveiled in
the afternoon. The service wag conduct
ed by the Rev. Roy M. Houghton, a for
mer pastor, now of New Haven, Conn.,
ho also gave an address. A Sunday
school pageant showing the growth of
the Sunday school was a pleasing fea
ture. Thursday will be marked by a concert
in the church bv Mrs. Mary Howe Bur-
Osear Potter Had Suffered Alone for
Long Time.
Rutland. July 6. O.-car Potter, a well
known farmer who had lived alone on
the Creek road in the city of Rutland
for the last four years and in the town
of Clarendon for many years, died at
the Rutland hospital vesterday after
noon at 3 o'clock as a result of injuries
received when he fell onto a stove at his
home on the place known as the Dunn
farm, a short distance south of Dorr
bridge.
Mr. Potter was last seen on Friday
of last week and it is probable the ac
cident happened on that date, but he was
discovered Sunday just before noon by
Leo Shelvey of Meadow street, an em- ;
ploye of the water department of the
city, who, while on a berrying expedi
tion stopped at the Potter house for a
drink of water.
In looking through the window Shel
vey saw Potter on the floor, lying face
down in a pool of blood. He had fallen
between the stove and a partition and
evidently could not move. lie had been
there many hours when discovered.
Mr. Potter was 60 years old and had
been a life long resident of Clarendon.
The body was taken yesterday after
noon from the Rutland hospital to ti e
undertaking rooms of J. I!. Stearns, and
the funeral plans will be announced later.
He is survived bv three sisters. Mrs.
Jane Southworth of Middletown Springs,
Mrs. H. I). Hopkins ot Wallingtord, Mrs.
vdia Potter of Clarendon and a broth
er, Henry Potter of Clarendon.
FELL 150 FEET.
Two Occupants of Automobile Had Mi
raculous Escape.
Concord. N. H., Julv (J. News has been
received in this eitv of the miraculous
escape from death on Saturday of Hol
man A. Ih ew of Berlin, ex-sheriff 'of Coos
ounty and past grand master of New-
Hampshire Masons, who was the custo-
ton of Clinton, Mass., who will sing and dian of H.irry K. Thaw- in this city in
her brother. Lucien Howe of Boston, who 1 1913.
SWANT0N PASTOR RESIGNS.
I Rev. John Van Burk Going to Tivou-on-
the-Hudiou, N. Y.
Swanton. July S. Rev. John Van Burk
has tendered bis re!gnation. as ptT of
the ConrregtKnal church to accept a
will be at the organ.
The first communion of the church was
held July 7, 1816, and on Friday after
noon a. centennial communion service w ill
be held in the church.
Saturday afternoon in the chapel and
parlors own house will be kept.. An
exhibition of antiques and curios indic
ative of conditions 10 year ago, will
be given.
DEATH OF F. H. ADAMS.
In Declining Health for Some Time, He
Had Hemorrhage of the Brain.
Fred H. Adams, aced 5a, JiPd yesterday
afternoon at his home at 5fi Maple avenue
of hemorrhage of the brain, following a
two weeks illness in bed. He has been in
declining health for some time. He would
have been .M next month.
Mr. Adsms was born in Cambridge,
Mass.. and had resided in Barre since
l!il. He married Carrie Roberts at Tun-
bridce. and thev have three children.
Mr. Drew and his w ife. w hile motoring
through Dixville Notch, went over an em
bankment near The Balsams and fell
150 feet, their car turning over in the
air several lime and finally landing,
right side up, in deep sand. Mrs. Drew
escaped without injury, and Mr. Drew,
who is a very heavy man, had no broken
bones. The shock, however, was such
that he was taken to the hospital at
Colebrook for treatment and is still an
inmate, there. The physician in charge
hopes no permanent ill effects will follow
the accident.
SHOOTING SONG BIRDS.
And
Catching Alleged Short
Trout in Vermont.
Length
St. Johnsburv. Julv 6 Ambrogia Bo-
cardi and -toe Costi were fined Jl.V w it U
costs of $7. I V in municipal court on the
charge of shotting song birds, and tii
judge took occasion to call the respond
ents attention to the law relative t-j
Ralph D.. IVn and Mrs. Flmer Clark. I shooting firearms in the village limit.
mi t ted t enli-t
units fcercs'ter. r.I-rt to thi H!Vct . position. ."Sept. I.aa superintendent of a
were received l.v th" Nw Brunsw uk i frh air kra at Tiroli-on the-Hudon.
12 boura hld their ps!i"n int htavj comma o J l dar. .V.
all residents of this city. Mr. Adams.
in partnership with his S"n, Ralph, was
engafd in jobbing. He leaves no rela
tives aside from the immediate family.
Mr. Adams was a (rood father and bus-
hand and leave many friends who regret
his death.
The funeral will take place Saturday
afternoon at 2 o'clock, from the haie of
his daughter, Mrs. ElinT Clark, at 76
Maple avenue.
Bennme'on. July rt. County Game
Warden E. S. H:e?in rwentlv cjme upon
an automobile party tsking lunch beside
the rojd and eockine trout that are al
leged to have been nhort length, thirteen
in number G-orge W. Tubbs of Andover
aumel recponibility for the whole a4
fair and was plai-ed tin W fr) h,l fr
appearance July 12. The ,n,jre mx n
Bondville. where, it is i".igeii. tLe fisi
law is not well enurcei
I
