Oregon Historical Roclnty
Stock Exchange Luildlnj,
GAZETTErTB
o
VOL. 33. NO. 15.
HKPPNER, ORp:CiON, JUIA'C, 1916
SL'BSCKIITION, $1.5" PEU YEAR
JL
SILO IS A GREAT
PROFIT BUILDER
Farmer Smitlu Is Also Advocate of
County Agriculturist North
Morrow Produces Fine
Potatoes,
Every farmer should have one.
This Is the belief of C. L. Smith, ag
riculturist for the O. W R. Co., in
speaking of silos and their benefits to
the farmer. Farmer Smith has been
instrumental in getting the silo idea
started with the farmers of the
Northwest. Just now he is'anxiou3
to see this method of putting up for
age crops, adopted by Morrow county
farmers. Proper ensilage is a profit
builder onthe farm and Mr. Smith
Illustrates this statement by tellln?
what he has actually done In some of
his farm expertmentsthings no long
er considered experiments because
the entire scheme of the silo is built
on scientific knowledge.
"Why I would have a silo on my
farm if nothing more than a hole in
the ground," said Farmer Smith. "In
fact the first silo I ever had was noth
ing more than a hole in the ground.
A dutch friend of mine, a farmer In
this country was telling me how bad
ly he wanted a silo on his place but
didn't have the money with which to
build It. I happened to know that
he had been digging a well. He had
gone down agout 30 feet without
striking water and had given It up.
I suggested to him that he make use
of this well, using it for his silo
He followed my advice and made
enough on that hole In the ground the
first year to build a brand new silo."
"Every county like Morrow should
have a county agriculturist" continu
ed Mr. Smith. The county agricul
turist's relation to the county is the
same as the transformer is to the
electric power plant. One of the
great problems in this county is Unit
of deallug with the ground squirrels.
These pests do enough damage to
crops here In a year to pay the agri
culturist's salary for one hundred
years. Under properly organized
work the entire county could get rid
of this pest, and that is one of the
big ideas in having these county
agents. They take all these pro
blems in hand and work them out."
Farmer Smith Is now conducting
some dry farm work on the Miller
ranch north of Lexington. He has
an acre there in potatoes which he
is confident will make a bumper yield.
In the growing of potatoes, after se
lecting the proper seed, cultivation
is the whole thing with Farmer
Smith. He is not able to be present
all the time to supervise the work,
but the man he has employed to do
the cultivation keeps a record of
everything that is done during the
day. Mr. Smith has also 40 acres
of Yellow Dent corn which is doing
fine. A piece of bald barley is also
mnkink excellent progress and if he
decides to erect a silo down there he
will have no trouble in filling it up.
PERSONAL MENTION
James Bannon, the popular travel
ing man. arrived in Heppner yester
day in his new Saxon car which he
now uses in visiting the various towns
In his territory.
Mrs. R. J. Vaughn has returned
home from Baker, where she has
been visiting with relatives. Her
sister accompanied her and will
spend the summer in Heppner.
A new feature' for early rising was
recently employed at Canyon City. It
was the desire of many young people
to be up bright and early for the 4th
of July, so they danced all night of
the 3rd. '
W. W. Smcad returned last Sun
day evening from Portland where he
had gone to make arrangements for
a float for the Knights of Pythias of
Morrow and Gilliam counties at the
supreme lodge convention in August.
W. W. Beckdolt and family of
Hardman were week end visitors at
the home of Mrs. Beckdolt's parents,
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Simpson In this
city. Crop conditions in the Hard
man section couldn't be better ac
cording to Mr. Beckdolt.
Harley Adkins, who has been In
Ogden, Utah, the past several weeks,
returned to Heppner Wednesday eve
STATE SUPERINTENDENT ISSUES AN
OPEN LETTER TO GLOB MEMBERS
State Superintendent of Public In- me a letter. Tell me how many
struction has issued an open letter to members you have, and if you have
the 338 industrial club members In ?l ?y ,bo en-
, .titled "Industrial Club Work of Ore-
Morrow county in regard to this gon Boys and Giirrs 1916 we shaU
phase of educational work in the pub- send you one copy for each four or
lie schools. The industrial club Idea five members, so that they can be
originated only a few years ago but PM8ed ""und and all may read it.
since its adoption in the state of Ore- Wtishln yo" sucf 8 ln nJlV
work and a pleasant and profitable
gon, much work has been done and vacation, I remain.
many clubs have been organized all
over the state. The letter is as fol
lows: My Dear Club Members:
Now that school has closed, I
hope you will not forget your club
work, nor fall to hold your club meet
Very sincerely yours.
J. A. Churchill,
Supt. Public Instruction.
Heppner Can't Beat lone.
Heppner can't beat lone with a
lngs regularly. Like everything else club: that l8' with the Present base"
in life, you will get out of this Just ball club. The team Journeyed to the
what you put into it, and you cannot Egg City last Sunday and for seven
afford to form the habit of neglect- innlngs walked away with everything
ing or being Indifferent about any- . , . t ... ... . .
thin nnWtalro "Whofovo, 1 "c" al P"'"-.
worth doing at all is worth doing
well." Above all things do not be a
"quitter".
The success of your club depends
upon: The interest and influence of
its officers', the interest and loyalty
ning. He went on out to the ranch of each member; the holdlngT)f club
home on Rhea creek where his wife meetings regularly; the active parti
and daughter have been visiting the clpatlon of each member ln the pro
last month. Harley may soon take a grams and proceedings of the meet
position with a large lumber firm in ings; and in carefully following in-
Idaho in the credit department. , structions and doing your best in
Cy H. Pruner, representing the
n rt mottfir artmtinri tirliaf vmi Art a a
Oregon Life Insurance Company, of '
Dnnflnttil Had hnnn ntialrrniri tn 1ia "
when our boys should have tightened
up, they went woefully to pieces and
the lone ball players took home the
bacon by the close score of 4 to 3.
Fulwider pitched the best game of
the season Sunday and with any kind
of supoprt would have won easily.
Hayes started things going the wrong
way in the 8th inning when he spoiled
a grounder near third.' Brown was a
dark horse for Heppner but failed to
show anything startling. He looks
everything woU undertake. It does " ual uu- w DU-
Portland, has been assigned to the
Eastern Oregon district. He was in
Heppner this week looking over the
territory here. He has not yet decid
ed whetller lie will make his head
quarters at Pendleton or The Dalles
but will probably choose Pendleton.
Mr. Pruner is a married man and for
merly lived in Salem, where he was in
charge of the western division office.
E. E. Brosius of Hood River will soon
arrive ln Heppner to look after Ore
gon Life's business in this county and
in the counties of Gilliam and Wheel
er. '
value ln the following familiar verse:
Both teams had practically the
same lineup as on former occasions.
"If I were a cobbler, I'd make it Coshow J' "? De"k'
cr auu r uiwiuer uiu me miu& iui
Heppner.
my pride the very best cobbler to be.
If I were a tinker, no tinker be
sides should mend an old kettle
like me.
But whether a tinker or whether a
lord, whatever my station may be,
I'll climb to the top of the tree."
Do your best. Have an exhibit,
and a project report at your local
fair and at the state fair, and help
advertise your school and county.
Whether you win a prize or not, you
will be gaining knowledge and expert-
LEXA HOLMKS FKA8KR.
Investieation showed that Mr.
ence and will be developing qualities! Grider had first shot his wife in the
Tragedy at Condon,
A very startling tragedy occured
in Condon on Thursday morning. At
about six o'clock the tenants of the
First National Bank were awakened
by several revolver shots, and upon
entering the apartments of Mr. and
Mrs. Wayne Grider it was found that
both were dead.
W-st and head,. and then had killed
himself. Both a revolver and rllle
were used. A coroner's inquest was
held and decided that the act had
been done in a fit of temporary insan-
of good citizenship. ,.-..,.....
' If as many as half the members of
Died, at thejfanilly home near your ciub do all the required work
Gooseberry, Ore!, June 27th, I9.1f, and make an exhibit at some fair,
Lena Holmes Fraser, aged 32 years, your club will be given a certificate
2 months and 23 days, wife of R. F. of merit signed by the Governor, theijty.
raser. President of the Oregon Agricultural Mr. and Mrs. Grider were old resi-
Lena Brock Holmes was united in College, The State Leader of Club dents of this county, having lived
marriage to R. F. Fraser August 31, Work, the Superintendent of Public here for many years. Mrs. Grider is
1905, to which union they were Instruction and your own County the daughter of W. S. Myers, a pion
blessed with three children living, School Superintendent. I am sure eer of this city. Mr. Myers has the
Edwin, aged 10 years, Frances, aged your club can do this and that you ' sympathy of the whole community.
8. years, and Baby Bruce, aged 9 will be proud of the achievement, j Condon Times.
months. I have heard of your Interest in
The remains were laid to vest in your work through the Field Work-! Frank Turner, who recently suf
Gooseberry cemetery, Rev. Clarence ers and they as well as I, will be in-: fered the loss of considerable farm
Reynolds preaching the funeral ser- terested in hearing from you. If you ' property in a wind and rain storm,
vlco. A kind mother and wife, a good have not been holding your meetings has moved his family to town and
neighbor and friend has passed to regularly, please call one at once, : they are now living in the Matlock
heavenly rest. j read this letter to the club and write : residence on Gale street.
25,000 Knights in Convention.
Portland, Oregon, is getting ready
to "doll up" again. This time it will
be for the entertainment of the Su
preme Lodge of the Knights of Pyth
ias, which meets in that city August
1 to 10. Portland will be decorated
from the water front to the hills ln
red, yellow and blue, not the least
portion of which will consist of flow
ers. Portland has 600 miles of rose
hedges from which to cull her decor
ations, and which are at the disposal
of the visitors. Portland women even
supply their visitors with gloves and
shears, as well as the rose bushes to
work from. . I
It is expected that 25,000 Knights
of Pythias will attend the convention.
The large portion of visitors will be
subordinate lodge members who will
lie taking their vacations from busi
ness. For the entire crowd an elab
orate entertainment has , been pre
pared. Special trains will begin arriving ln
Portland about July 30. These will
be carrying Eastern people. Other
sections of the Northwest will arrive
by special trains in the following two
days. Headquarters for the officers
of the Supreme Lodge will be at the
Hotel Portland, while sessions of that
body will be held ln the Masonic
Temple. The great State Armory,
where 1000 men march and counter
march ln comfort, will be the scene
of the public receptions.
Special committees will meet all
trains and secure hotel accomoda
tions for all visitors.
Auto owners are being urged to
drive through to Portland. The trip
will be delightful, and the machine
will be handy ln making trips over
the wonderful scenic boulevards
"Vhlch Portland has Just completed.
Portland wants you to come.
i r
Ml
hi
Mil
1
nte PaA Tie Cult
II j- GKOHGE SHERMAN.
One day through the primeaval wood -A
calf walked home, as good calves should;
But made a trail all bent askew,
A crooked trail, as all calves do.
Since then, two hundred years have fled,
And, I infer, the calf is dead,
But still he left behind his trail,
And thereby hangs my moral tale.
The trail was taken up next day
By a lone dog that passed that way;
And then a wise bellweather sheep
Pursued the trail o'er vale and steep
And drew the flock behind him, too,
As good bellwethers always do.
And from that day o'er hill and glade
Through these old woods a path was made;
And many men wound ln and out
And dodged and turned and bent about
And uttered words of righteous wrath,
Because it was a crooked path.
But still they followed do not laugh
The first migrations of the calf,
And through this winding woodway stalked
Because he wobbled when he walked.
This forest path became a lane,
That bent and turned and turned again;
This crooked lane became a road, -Where
many a poor horse with his load
Toiled on beneath the burning sun,
And traveled some three miles in one;
And thus, a century and a half,
They trod the footsteps of that calf.
The years passed on in swiftness flleet;
The road became a village street; "
And this, before men were aware,
A city's crowded thoroughfare;
And soon the central street was this,
Of a renowned metropolis,
And men, two centuries and a half,
Trod in the-iootsteps of that calf.
Each day, a hundred thousand rout
Followed the zig-zag calf about,
And o'er this crooked Journey went
The traffic of a continent.
A hundred thousand men were led
By one calf, near three centuries dead;
They followed still his crooked way
And lost one hundred years a day;
For such a reverence is lent
To well-established precedent. ,
A moral lesson this might teach,
Were I ordained and called to preach;
For men are prone to go it blind
Along the calf paths of the mind,
And work away from sun to sun
To do what other men have done.
They follow in the beaten track,
And out and in and forth and back,
And still their devious course pursue,
To keep the paths that others do;
But how the wise old wood gods laugh,
Who saw the first primeaval calf;
Ah! many things this tale might teach
But I am not ordained to preach.
PERSONAL MENTION
Barney McDevitt of lone was . a
Heppner visitor this week.
County clerk J. A. Waters took in
the celebration at Parkers Mill on the
4th.
Jesse and Harry Turner of Sand
Hollow were in the city over the week
end.
Glenn Y. Wells and wife motored
out to Parkers Mill for the celebra
tion. Sheriff McDutfee attended the cele
bration at Parkers Mill on Tuesday
afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Huston were in
the city yesterday from their farm
home on upper Eight Mile.
Earl Cronk of lone spent Tuesday
evening and Wednesday in this city.
He is taking eye treatment from Dr.
Haylor.
Ben Griffiths has taken the posi
tion of freight clerk at the local de
pot, succeeding Mr. Douglas, who has
gone to- Portland.
George T. Pearce, who was confin
ed to his home the first of the week
with a severe attack of asthma, Is
again able to be about.
Louis Zigler made a trip to Pendle
ton last week in his car. He reports
some of the roads very rough as a re
sult of the recent wash-outs.
Fred Elder left Monday for Wyom
ing to spend the summer with his
father. He will travel extensively
through the southwest before return
ing home.
LOST I. O. O. F. veteran's jewel,
25 years across front. Finder please
leave at this office or notify Milt Max
well at Parkers Mill. Liberal re
ward. '
Mrs. Frank Stevenson arid daugh
ters are over from their home in
Washington visiting relatives and
friends in this city. Mrs. Stevenson
is a daughter of Henry Howard and
formerly lived here.
Work of repainting the interior of
the school building started this mottl
ing under the direction of M. J. Brad
ford. A new roof will also be put
on, the old one havfiig givet more or
less trouble since the fire three years
ago.
Ernest Clark of Lexington ws tak
en the first chair in the Patterson and
Elder barber shop, and will work
there during Fred Elder's absence.
He has fitted up housekeeping rooms
in the Ashbaugh building on Main
street.
Milt Maxwell, Parkers Mill post
master, was in the city Wednesday.
He is advertising for his watch charm
a veteran's jewel of the I. O. O. J&
lod(;e, which he lost, presumably dur
ing the celebration at that place on
the 4th.
Jos. J. Nys, local attorney, re
turned home the last of the week
from Portland and other Valley
points, where he had been visiting
relatives and friends for several
weeks. His partner, Glenn Y. Wells,
will leave soon on his vacation.
Mrs. Frank Nash and children re
turned to their home in Pendleton
last Saturday after visiting at the
home of Mrs. Nash's parents, Mr. and
Mrs. W. E. Walbridge. Mr. Wal
bridge, who has been sick all spring,
is now greatly Improved in health.
Marshal Phelps, son of Mr. and
Mrs. A. M. Phelps of this city, who
recently went to Alaska, Is now locat
ed at Kennecott, a mining town 150
miles from Valdez. He has a good
job and Is enjoying excellent health,
according to letters received by his
parents here.
George Hendry, who recently pur
chased the Heppner Bakery from
Frank Fuchs, took possession of the
place the first of the month and has
already made some extensive im
provements. The most important
change is the interior decorating
done by Bradford & Son. Mr. Fuchs
and family expect to leave soon for
the Willamette Valley on an extended
automobile tour.
Sloan P. Shutt, for seven years edi
tor of the Joseph Herald, has sold
that papr to W. C. Black, of Harris
burg, Linn county, Oregon. Mr
Black, It Is understood, is an exper
ienced newspnper man and a native
Oregonlan. Mr. Shutt is a brother of
E. M. Shutt, formerly of Heppner.
He has not yet decided where he will
eventually locate, but will remain in
Joseph until Fall at least.
N. A. Clark, local wood dealer has
been busy the past two weeks filling
large wood contracts. The school
house and the court house are some
of the large contracts, while many of
the residents are buying in carload
lots for winter use. Most of the de
liveries consist of slab wood. A
new feature of the fuel business ln
Heppner will be introduced by Mr.
Clark in the form of bricquetts.
Mrs. Frank McCabe and her two
year old baby boy were drowned ln
the flood which hit McDonald canyon
last Saturday afternoon about 4
o'clock. Two men and three other
children narrowly escaped with their
lives.
The cloudburst broke about 4 o'
clock in the evening just above the
McCabe place. At the time Mrs.
McCabe her children and the two hir
ed men were in the house. Dark
clouds had been threatening, and ac
cording to Tom Gill, one of the hired
men, they had kept a close lookout
for water. However, the walL of
water, which was about twelve feet
high, came so suddenly down the can-'
yon that it was only a few feet away
when discovered. '
Gill sounded the alarm and grabb
ed one of the children, running1 out
of the house for higher ground. He
stated that the water was up around
his neck before he finally got out.
The oldest children ran on ahead and
Mrs. McCabe was carrying the baby.
After getting the child he was carry
ing to safety, he turned to help Mrs.
McCabe, but she and the baby had
disappeared.
The body of Mrs. McCabe was later
found about four miles below the
ranch and that of the baby was re
covered six or seven miles below. Mrs.
McCabe was 33 years of age and had
lived in this country about 14 years.
At the time of the flood Mr. Mc
Cabe was in this city attending the
funeral of Matt Riley.
The funeral service was held In
this city on Wednesday afternoon
from the Catholic church. A large
number of friends from over the en
tire county were present to pay their
last respects to the departed and to
cheer and comfort the heart broken
family In their sad hour.
HOTHERJkNDGHUJI
DHQWNEI
IN FLOOD
Mrs Frank McCabe and Two Year Old
Baby Boy Are Swept Away
When High Water Visits
McDonald Caj non.
Nell T)mtprrrsper.t' en'rat ftaya
transacting business in Heppner the
past week.
Ralph Yeager returned the last of
the week from an extended visit to,
Portland and the Coast cities.
A 50,000-bushel grain elevator Is
under process of construction at Con
don. The elevator will be P7 feet
high. '
Several of the farmers were haul--
ing their old cast iron to town this
week. There is a fairly good price
for junk just now. Mdst of it will
probably go into Europe's war sup--piles
from this country.
Mrs. LeRoy Jones and small son:
are visiting Heppner relatives this,
week. They have been living at Irri
gon the past several months, but ex
pect to locate in Aberdeen, Wash.
Mr. Jones having already gone to that
city.
Some excitement was caused last
Saturday afternoon when the fire bell
rang. Investigation showed that the
electric wire in the home of Eliza
Ayers on Chase street was smoking.
The trouble was evidently caused
by a short circuit. No damage re
sulted.
Percy Hughes was in the city from
his ranch on Little Butter creek Mon
day. He reports that farms were
somewhat damaged there by the re
cent heavy rains. This damage con
sisted in the main part of loss of re
cently cut hay, not yet stacked and
the washing out of much fencing.
Mr. Hughes is of the opinion that
the general result was greatly bene
ficial to the farmers.
Card of Thanks.
We desire to thank our friends for
the kindness shown during our recent
bereavement, the death of our be
loved wfe and mother, also for the
many beautiful floral offerings.
R. F. FRASER and CHILDREN.
THE WEATHER
The following is the report of the
weather for the past week as given us
by Cooperative Observer Frank Gilliam:
Temp.
' cj
Q
2 "-1
S A i O u
M '5 s
CO 2- Q Ca n
a a j e g
2S 6!5 il M Part Clear
29 65 45 .04 Part Clear
30 70 4S Part Clear
1 75 60 .35 Part Clear
2 63 50 .15 Part Clear
3 67 4S Part Cleap
4 72 41 .Clear
