A
;
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
4c
.
: m
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR-
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS ffiSwScKS
GERMANS WILL LAUNCH
GREAT COUNTER ATTACK
Kaiser Said to Have; c Hved
Direct Defense-4 i it Bodies of Troons Bein? Massed
. to Check Allies' J f We
.Are Near Peronni tussians Cut Main Railroad Over!
L I t riirv l
piiiui uanucrg wis juppues ,
By Ed L. Keen,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
London, July 6. The kaiser is reported to have ar
rived on the Somme front accompanied by members of his
general staff who will direct the defense of the German
lines in the great allied offensive.
An Amsterdam dispatch today reported the kaiser's
arrival and said he had established headquarters near the
front not far from Cambrai and opposite the British
front.
Great bodies of German troops are being massed be
tween the Ancre and the Somme to stem the British
advance. Allied fliers report the constant ari5val of
troop trains and Holland dispatches today confirmed re
ports of heavy concentrations behind the British lines
from Ypres to the Somme.
There is every indication that the Germans will launch
a very heavy counter attack against the British lines
within 72 hours. The object will be not only to stifle the
British offensive but to prevent a further advance by the
French, who cannot continue the drive eastward if the
British lines on their left are bent back. The German
blow may fall anywhere along the British front. -
All dispatches from Berlin today emphasized the
kaiser's determination to halt the British early in the
attack at all costs. The German newspapers, paying
scant attention to the French successes south of the
Somriie, express elation over the claim that the mo
mentum of the British advance has been checked. The
more sober minded German critics, however, give warn
ing that the battle is only beginning and that regardless
of any checks administered to the allies, the attack will
continue. ' n
No Infantry Attack
" Paris, July 6. Verdun cathedral
was heavily bombarded by the Ger
mans last night with large sheUs, t'.ie
yar office annouueed today.
Though violent bombardment occur
red on the Verdun 1'ront the Germans
lid not resume their Infantry attacks.
The Germans bombarded' French
second line trenches near Chnttancourt
west of the Meuse. On the east bank
artillery duels continued on the sec
tors of Fleury and the Fumin woods.
In Alsace, a French detachment pen-t-rtoted
a trench near Tliuhnupt, which
a found to be full of dead Ger
mans. The lull in the"figliting south of the
Somme last night was probably due to
the necessity l'or further artillery pre
paration before the French resume
their advance on Pennine. Since the
French advance south of the river be
an last Saturday morning General
I'oeh's troops have taken the German
heeond lines on a wide front but now
face new positions before Peronne.
With French troops now almost in
the outskirts of Peronne the Germans
nre reinforcing heavil particularly on
itheir right flank northwest of the" vil
lage. Southwest of Peronne there was
heavy fighting yesterday in which
French cavalry took part and the fa
mous French "75 V did terrible ex
ecution. French Neariug Peronne
One cavalry detachment breaking
' TtT cheaper t' marry & girl that
Can't play th' planner than it is t' eat
down town. Pinkey Kerr ruined a fine
12 suit at Indynaplus yisterday tryio'
f cross ttt' street like be d alius lived
there.
y f
i 9ss& am vJ
at Somme with His Staff to
- French Still Advancing and
tiironarh a gap in the German second
line, actually approached close to the
Peronne-Chaulnes railway, before be
ing driven back by German fire. j
So rapid was the French advance
south of the Somme in the early stages
of the lighting that German detach
ments were cut off during the night in
some instances and surrounded before
th"- knew they were under attack.
A French company which cut off the
avenues of retreat from one Germnn
trench found several of the occupants
asleep in their dugouts.
The region south of the Somme over
which the French are advancing is full
oi historic, interest. In the village of
Hnrleux, southwest of Peronne and in
the line of advance, Hie Germans in
1870 installed artillery for the purpose
of bombarding Peronne, The village
was honored after the war with the
decoration of the legion of honor for
its historic resistance to the Germans.
The town of Peronne was a strong
fortress in the medieval ages. Charles
the Simple was imprisoned and died
there, Peronne surrendered . to Wel
lington in 1S15 and the Germans in
January 1871 after a most stubborn
resistance.
Russians Still Unchecked
-etrograd, July fi. liussian troops
have captured the village and railway
station of Mikuliczvn, 38 miles south
of Stnnislau, tints cutting one of the
main Austrian lines of communication
to Lemberg and the main railway over
which General Bothmer's Austro-Ger-man
army received supplies.
Capture of Mikuliczyn was official
ly announced today after an earlier
bulletin had been issued, announcing
the cutting of the railway. The war
office announced that several other
Austrian positions on the Russian
flank were captured, indicating that
practical!' all of the southeastern cor
ner of Galacia is now cleared of Aus
trian troops.
In the region of Koulkagaluikta,
cnemr counter attacks in close forma
tion were repulsed. One enemy de
tachment was allowed to approach to
within 100 paces of the Russian posi
tions before the Slavs opened fire.
The detachment wns nearly annihilat
ed. The Russians took 440 prisoners
on this sector.
On the right bank of the Dneistcr,
the Austrians were routed, the czar's
troops occupying a sector west of Is
sakovjivatchon taking several hundred
prisoners.
Heavy fighting continues east and
southeast of Ilaranovitchi, where tiie
Russians are attacking the German
center. One Russian division captur
ed more than 1,000 Germans. In the
region of Verchnitchorkh, the Russians'
have taken numeroua prisoners, rifles
and other material. On the Riga front
a German first line trench was rap
tured bv the Russian '.eft wing, wkich
too it prisoners and machine guns.
(Continued Page Six.)
HAVE HOT FIGHT WITH
Fire On Americans, Result 27
Dead Rebels, One Amer-
ican
Washington, July 6. Routing 250
revolutionists, killing 27 and capturing
five, the American forces advancing on
Snntiago, Han Domingo, lnt Saturdny
suffered casualties of one killed, one se
riously wounded and seven slightly
hurt. ,
The dead American wag George
Frazee.
FrozeC's home was Canon City, Colo.
Private J. E. Daley, Bookersville, Ky.,
was the serious wounded man. Those
slightly wounded were:
K. D Putnam, Jeffersonton, Va.
Corporal Oscar J. Johnson, LaCrosse,
Wis.
jCorporal J. A. Glowin, Detroit, Mich.
Drummer C. K. Merriwether, Louis
vilel, Ky.
Private W. F. Johnson, Shelby, Mich.
Private C. Oates, Seattle.
Private F. R. Paine, Minneapolis.
The Americans under Colonel Pom
bleton engaged the rebels at Guayac
anes The rebels were entrenched in a
strong concealed position, and this pre
vented the Americans from using their
artillery in the advance. The enaray out
posts opened fire but the Americans,
though taken by surprise, made a sharp'
attack, soon driving out the Dominicans
in disorder.
The number of the rebel wounded
could not be ascertained.
Tl
These Will Be Taken Up
-Through Usual Diplomatic
Channels'
Washington, July 0. Following a
conference with President Wilson, Sec
retary Lansing today said a reply would
be sent to General Carranza by this
government. It will go forward soon.
It was also learned that negotiations
with the Carranza government will be
taken up through the customary diplo
matic channels.
It is probable Secretary Lansing will
begin work at once on the reply to Car
ranza. Possibly he will have it ready
to present to the cabinet tomorrow be
fore he leaves for a month's vacation.
What the reply will embody was gone
over thoroughly by the president and
Lansing during a 45 minute talk. No
inkling of its contents, however, could
be learned. Asked if it would request
more specific details from Carranza as
to his plan of co-operation with the
I'nited Mates in working out a solution
of the border difficulties, Secretary
Lansing said he was unable to discuss
any feature of the reply.
Mexican Foreign Minister Aguilar to
day issued a statement to the Mexican
people that the government "expected
a completely satisfactory solution of all
questions nt issue between Mexico and
the United States without injury to.
the prime interests of the Mexican re
public." This information wns cabled to Mex
ican Ambassador Arredoudo here.
Half Million Austrians
Put Out of Commission
In Last Russian Drive
By William Phillip Simms.
(I'nited Press staff correspondent.)
Pctrogrnd, July 0. At least half A reinforcements southward in prepare-
ii- . 1 a i i.i -ii tiou for the present smash was the first
million Austrian troops have been kill- aign hwe the ParU conf.
ed, captured or badly wounded since j Pnc1 vm beRanng to bear fruit. The
General Brusiloff began his sweep results of the allied decision are now
through Volhynin, Gnlicia and Buko-j beginning to show. Pctrogrnd watch
wina. That number will be unavailable j ing with interest the Anglo-French of-
for the summer and fall campaigns of
the central powers.
General Letchitzki's advance In
southeastern Galicia, after the capture
of Kolomea, hjts been so rapid that his
army not only menaces the important
cities of Stonislnu and Lemberg but the '
whole. of eastern Galicia. The right
wiug of the Austro-Uerman army is un
der heavy pressure. j
The Austrians are staggering back
along the muddy valleys of the Pruth
ami Dniester, abandoning great quan
tities of material. The roads in this
region, always bad, have been convert
ed into bogs by heavy raius. Pressing
the disheartened Austrians are Russian
soldiers in high spirits over their con
tinued successes and the allied victories
in France. v
The growing development of the op
erations leads to the belief that events
are impending which will affect the
struggle on the French and Italian
fronts and probably the outcome of the
Anstro-Italian war in the Trentino.
Along the entire front the Russians are
feeling for weak spots.
The czar's capital is taking the news
1
INFANTILE
PARALYSIS CASES
IN OTHER PLACES
Assumes Alarming Propor
tions in Several Illinois
Counties
MORE THAN 600 CASES
IN NEW YORK TO DATE
At Least 25 Per Cent of Cases
FatalExpect Worst in
August
jc sjc sjc sc 30c sfc sjc sfc sc sfc
EPIDEMIC 0R0W3 WOESE
New ' York, July 6. Twenty
four ne deaths in New York 's
great epidemic of Infantile pa
ralysis were reported to the
health, department, np to 10
o 'clock, today, making a total
of 154 deaths since the first
case was, discovered. Physi
cians reported, 133 new cases
today, making ( a total of 758.
New York, July j6. New York's in
fantile paralysis epidemic today appar
ently spread to" several nearby cities,
In the meanwhile-'' it showed greater
virulence in " the greater city itself,
breaking all records for development.
Cases were reported so fast throug'.i
the night that the health bureau an
nounced early today compilations had
not been completed to show . exactly
how many new victims there were, but
th bureau estid u W that the "total
since the start of he scourge -was now
above 600 cases. -. .
The most sinister fact in connection
with the epidemic is that the mortality
from the disease exceeds any previous
reports in epidemics here or in other
cities. Of the (100 cases at least 150
have been fatal a 25 per cent ratio.
The record for New York 'a most fatal
previous attack of the child's disease
in 1907 was less than twenty per
cent. :
The health bureau today announced
it would avail itself of that provision
in the city charter which permits is
suance of special bonds with which
to defray the extraordinary expenses
incurred in fighting the plague. What
the experts fear is that the endemic
will not spend itself for another month
Infantile paralysis, the records show,
attains its greatest virulence in Aug
ust's hot weather. An emergency call
for nurses, additional physicians and
volunteer sanitation workers was is
sued today. The health bureau issued
a request for closing of Sunday schools
Epidemic In Illinois
Snrinifield.. 111., July fl. An outi
i break of infantile paralysis, the same
dread malady which is collecting a
toll oi one infant life every hour In
New York City, today assumed alarm
ing proportions in Illinois,
Following nn outbreak at Standard,
Putnam county, several days ago, ad
ditional cases were discovered todny
of Russian successes sedately, showing
I no undue enthusiasm. The transfer of
Yensivc in the west believes that the
Germans are at Inst trapped and sur
rounded by deadly danger, being unable
to shift troops from one front to the
other because she is attacked on all
ides. Authorities here believe the Ger
man reserves remaining in the interior
are insufficient to check the combined
allied offensive since the lines are so
long.
A Russian colonel furnished an illus
tration of the nature of the fighting in
southeastern Galicia. Near Kolouiea, he
said, a Russian field battery charged
through the mud, sabering and captur
ing an Austrian battery, an incident
that occurs very seldom in modern war
fare. By special permission of the Russian
government I was permitted to inspect
armament works and several small arms
facfories. Apparently Russia has large
ly overcome her 'initial munitions
shortage. I saw scores of thousands
feverishly at work making guns and
munitions. The number of passenger
trains to the interior has been reduced
in order to give the army an ample sup-
ply,
INVESTIGATION OF THE
BEEF TRUST BEGINS
Packers Control Loan Com
panies, Oil Cake Supply
and Cold Storage
Washington, July 6. At the final
hearing of the house sub-committee on
the Borland resolution asking for an
investigation of the beef trust, by a
federal commission, a petition was pre
sented by 125 members of the house
urging the judiciary committee to re
port the resolution favorably immedi
ately. It is understood the resolution
will be reported in time for the house
to act on it next week.
Besides complaint mat packers have
manipulated prices, Representative
Borland, in a final statement prepared
for the committee, declared American
packers are building up a line of pack
ing houses in South America and Aus
tralia enabling them to fix even ex
port prices.
"Packers are in control of the great
loan companies which furnish money
to farmers for the feeding and fatten
ing of cattle," said Borland. "Thoy
also have in their grasp a number of
subsidiary activities such aa the cotton
seed oil mills which supply oil cakes
for feeding purposes and cold storage
plants. This investigation . should be
undertaken, with a view of course, to
enforceing the criminal laws, but more
especially for 'discovery of better eco
nomic methods and remedial legisla
tion which will make the industry of
the widest possible benefit to the
country."
The first witness of the packers be
fore the committee today was Arthur
Meeker, general manager of the Ar
mour company.
in Ford, Franklin and LaSalle "coun
ties. Though the cases are widely sepa
rated, state board of health officials
are inclined to believe all originated
from the outbreak at Standard. ,
AF1 VILLISTAS
Bloody Battle Reported In
Which Villistas Are Re
ported Victors ,
Kl Paso, Texas, July fl. Reports of
a Villista victory over Carranra troops
in a bloody engagement southwest of
Jiminez were followed todny by a
statement from Manuel Medina veita,
formerly chief of staff to Pancho Vil
la, that he saw Villn Inst Friday in
San Buutcsta, Durnngo. Villa had 1,
200 followers with him, Medinnveita
declared to state department officials
here. Snn Itautesta is 35 miles south
of Parral.
The heroic death of General Ignneio
Ramos at the head of his t'nrraii7.ita
soldiers wns related in reports stating
that the Villistas thrice were beaten
back from the edge uf entrenchments.
Crack regiments of the de facto gov
ernments northern nnnv are said to
have been launched on a campaign to
wipe out the Villistas. However, the
bandits defeated a smaller force of
fnrranzistas at Corral, southwest of
.limine, while de facto reinforcements
were delayed by a wreck.
: TODAY'S BALL SCORES :
sc sjc j( jft fc sc )c jt sfc jjf ic ft jjt sfc tfc )(t
National
r. ir. k.
New York 12 19 B
Pittsburg OH 0
Perritt Bud Rariidcn; Cooper, Ad
ams and Ywlson.
American
Chicago
New York
Russell, llenz, Cicotte
Cullop nnd Niinnmnker,
R.
.... 3
II.
4
4 fi 1
and Scbnlk;
Koehcr.
R. II. K.
Detroit I) 12 1
Philadelphia 4 8 0
Mitchell, Cunningham and Ptnnnge;
Hlieehan, Uriscoll, Whittaker and -Myers.
It. II. E.
St. Louis 1 2 0
Washington 2 10 0
Wellmnn, Pnvenport and Severoid;
Chapman; Roehling and Henry.
R. II. E.
Cleveland 5 8 2
Itoston 0 8 0
Klepfer, Hnbgy and O'Neill; Foster,
Shore anil Thomas.
BILL POSTERS DISSOLVED
Chicago, July 0. formnl decree
dissolving the Association of Bill Post
ers in the United States and Canada.
Irnnm-n the 'mil Posters' trust"
' was entered here late this afternoon
by Federal Judge Landis.
TWO M 111 MEXICANS :
IN STARVING CONDITION
Army Seizes Everything and Is Well Supplied But Civilians
Are In Desperate Straits Caunt Women Take Up Cry
"May God Send the Cringoes"-Militia Will Be Kept (b
Border for Some Time Crisis Has Passed But Danger
Not All Over
Field Headquarters American Expedition in Mexico,
July 5. (By radio to Columbus, N. M., July 6.) -Starving
women at San Luis Potosi, in a yiot when refused .
food, cried may God send the gnngoes," stated reports
reaching General Pershing's headquarters today. Sev
eral women were severely beaten by soldiers who quelled
the outbreak.
Reports of American gold being paid peons for work
and supplies for the punitive expedition in contrast with
the virtual confiscation of food stuffs by the forces of the
defacto government has increased dissatisfaction among
Mexicans, according to the reports The Carranzista
troops were said to be overrunning the country, seizing -
everything of value for their own use or forcing in re
turn the acceptance of depreciated fiat currency at a
fifth of the property's value.
Lines of gaunt women and children are being doled out
corn in all the principal Mexican cities, it is reported. The
supply gave out at San Luis Potosi recently and hundreds
of women marched to the governor's palace crying for
food for their children. The governor told the mob that
he had none. The women took up the cry "may God send
the gringoes" and refused to be silenced until beaten and
cowed by the troops. ' rA - ; '
; Two Million
: Eaele Pass. Texas. Texas.
lion men, women and children in Mexico are on the verge
nf stnrvfltion.' accordirtff to Jos6 F. Martinez, who arrived
here after traveling two months in the southern republic
to prepare a report on conditions for New York interests.
"Conditions in nearly every part of Mexico are desper
ate," said Martinez. "The army has plenty of food,
while the civilian population is destitute and there is no
relief in sight. Many thousand hungry men have enlisted
rather than starve to death." ,
Martinez said Mexico is better prepared for.war than
generally supposed, having accumulated millions of
rounds of ammunition and large quantities of rifles dur
ing the last year.
While in Monterey, Martinez, had a narrow escape
from death. He was given an hour to leave the city. He
was lucky in catching a freight train for Saltillo whence
he made his way to Piedras Negras and Eagle Pass.
Danger Not All Over.
By Robert J Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, July 6. The American
punitive expedition will not withdraw
from Mexico merely on the strength of
Carrnniu's friendly note, it was of
ficially learned todny. Indications were,
however, that the document paved the
way for a discussion which ultimately
may end in withdrawal and establish
ment of border patrols by both coun
tries. Any withdrawal is contingent up
on Cnrrann's demonstration of ability
to police northern Mexico.
President Wilson is not convinced the
danger in Mexico is over. The present
crisis has passed. Carranza 's nttitude
now one of co-operation and friend
linTOi,Rivcs tremendous satisfaction to
officials. Hut the lioruer aiuigvr
lives. Three problems nre yet to be
solved: , .
Withdrawal of the punitive expedi
tion. Co operative border patrol.
Cleaning up of northern Mexico and
re-establishing of peace and order.
There are few officials who do not
believe three months will see the Amer
ican troops entirely out of Mexico, most
of tho militia, if not all back home and
the border under the protection of a
strong force of regular soldiers. This
military movement will be hastened by
evidence of determination bhown by
Carranza to cln up northern Mexico.
Tomorrow tho president and his cab
inet will take up this phase of the ques
tion. It is known the military authori
ties believe there is no further reason
why the punitive expedition should re
main In Mexico at least further south
thnn a patrol zone along the border it
self. It is known further that these au
thorities feel it would be unnecessary
and .mpracticttl to retain the different
militia organizations on the internation
al lino for patrol duty longer than three
or tour months at the most or not so
long, if the situation continues to
clear.
The army probably will ask for more
regular soldiers three or four incre
ments, made possible under the new
army bill, and It is likely the presi
dent and his advisers will follow the
imv't recommendation.
Kccretarv I.ansinir conferred with
President Wilson regarding the MeX'
ican note today,
' ' Carranza communication was char-
starving
July 6. At least two mil
acterized as leaving the door open for
an amicublo arrangement for the two
nations, but officials had not entirely
mapped out what course they would
pursuo in dealing with the problem.
The fact that Carranza 'did not dis
avow orders to General Arevino to fire
on American troops, left a real issue,
but officials view his reply M indicat
ing a desire to clean tho slate and start
anew.
In the absence of Secretary Lansing,
who starts his vacation tomorrow, Coun
sellor Frank Polk will handle whatever
negotiations nre undertaken. While
mediation is not altogether out of tho
question, direct dealings between Polk,
nnd Ambassailor Arredoudo is the prob
able administration course.
Hard Trip for Militia.
By Webb O Miller.
(I'nited Press staff correspondent.)
Columbus, N. M., July fl. A poition
(Continued on Page Four.)
MEN WITH DEPENDENT
FAMILIES TO COME HOME
Washington, July 6. Secre
tary of War Baker today n
stiucted department command
ers to discharge ail militia
men throughout the country witn
dependent families, the wax
press bureau announced loaaj.
: THE WEATHER Z
Oregon: . Fair
tonight; . Friday
warmer interior
portion; norther
ly winds.
