*V
The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
VOL. 23., NO. 29
Operators Would Grant Request
of World's Biggest Union For
Mine-Run System.
GET TOGETHER SPIRIT
AT BIG CONFERENCE
Not Believed That Bosses Will
Turn Down Proposed Wage
Increase.
NEW YORK, March 3.—That the
bituminous coal, operators would
grant the demands of the United
.Mine Workers for the mine-run sys­
tem and a 10 to 20 per cent increase
in wages was the generally expressed
sentiment yesterday, following the
meeting of the subcommittee of the
general conference which is meeting
her to draw up a new contract in
place? of the one that expires in the
soft coal fields on March 31.
When the subcommittee met in the
Hotel McAlpin in the morning the
miners presented the figures worked
out by their caucus, held the day be­
fore. in regard to equalization of
standards on the mine-run basis. The
operators on the committee after
hearing the report asked for time to
go over the plan by themselves.
It is a safe prediction to say that
tlie soft coal miners and operators
will agree on a contract before the
ilay is over. John P. White asked for
a conference with the anthracite
i-perutors tomorrow.
To Give Conferees Time.
This was done, it was said, to allow
sufficient time to dispose of the bi­
tuminous-miners' differences with the
operators before taking up the prob­
lem of the hard coal miners.
While there are still many details
to be decided on, it was learned yes­
terday that both miners and opera­
tors are confident that only a few
more days will be required to reach
nu agreement which would concede
everything the miners are demand­
ing.
SThe only two states of the four
represented that have not the mine
run system at present are Indiana and
Western., Pennsylvania. T.he Indiana
operators are willing to concede this
to the workers without further ado,
and informally the Western Pennsyl­
vania operators have signified their
willingness to do likewise after a few
minor points have been decided.
White. Frank J. Hayes, vice-presi­
dent, and other miners' officials yes­
terday felt that there remained no se­
rious obstacle in the way of securing
a concession of all the demands made
by the United Mine Workers on be­
half of the bituminous coal field
workers.
Pave Way for Consideration.
Once the disposal of the latter's
rate paves the way for the considera­
tion of the anthracite miners' prob­
lem with the operators, it is felt that
there will be no real difficulty in se
curing a contract for the workers in
the hard coal regions, although it
was freely admitted that the confer
once beginning tomorrow would prob­
ably be a long drawn out one.
Tt is known that the operators pro­
ducing bituminous coal would commit
commercial suicide should they per­
mit a strike to break out at this time
because of their refusal to give in to
the miners. The Steel Trust has
brought heavy pressure to bear upon
them not to risk a cessation of soft
coal production, as the coal is needed
in the busy munitions plants under
the control of the corporation.
Anything to confuse public opinion
•appears to be the slogan of the rail­
roads in their publicity work against
ihe shorter work day movement of
their transportation employes. What
they expect to make by pretending
to have support they know they
haven't is not exactly clear.
Luke Grant, employed at one time
by the Industrial Relations Commis­
sion, contributed an article to Cham­
berlain's and signed himself "Special
Agent, United States Industrial Com­
mission." The railway companies,
evidently believing that anything pre­
tending to bear the stamp of ap­
proval of the Industrial Relations
Commission would be received by the
public as possessing exceptional
\alue, reissued the story and gave it
wide circulation.
Public Is Misled.
So the public is misled into believ­
ing that the Industrial Relations
Commission was opposed to the de­
mand of the railway transportation
employes for the shorter work day
and time and one-half for overtime.
The statements made by Mr. Grant
do not vary materially from those al­
ready issued by the railways, to
which answer has been made, which
adds to the belief that the railway
companies endeavored to hide behind
the Industrial Relations Commission
in their efforts to prejudice public
opinion against their employes.
Mr. Grant discusses the proposi­
tions at considerable length and en­
deavors to show tha*. what is possible
"t
THE
Andrew Furuseth, Father of Sea­
men's Act, Scores Federal
Inspection Service.
SHOW? «v^TTTLD
UP M±.7/e
a
•Afro/*7 'On.
Declares Half-Hearted Wasburb
ton Navigation Officials Are
Working Against Law.
BOSTON*, March 3.—Charges that
the La Follette Seamen's Act is not
being enforced because the shipping
interests have too much influence
with officials of the Department of
Commerce were made here tonight in
an address before the Economic Club
by Andrew Furueth, author of the act
and president of the International
Seamen's Union.
Secretary of Commerce Redfield
was scheduled to be present at the
meeting.
The Commissioner of Navigation
and the Inspector-General of Steam
Vessels were specifically named by
Mr. Furuseth as the officials respon­
sible for failure to enforce the law.
"What is the prospect of having an
American merchant marine and of
bringing the American to the sea?"
asked Mr. Furuseth. "When will the
improvement come? My answer is—
that is on the knees of the gods."
An American Merchant Marine.
"But it will certainly come as soon
as there shall be less American
money in foreign vessels, or, as soon
as the public shall get a better under­
standing of this legislation, or, as
soon as the shipping interests shall
have less influence with the bureau
chiefs, who advise the too-busy Secre­
tary of Commerce, or when those bu­
reau chiefs are promoted, or die.
Fortunately, few men are immortal,
and it is only after death.
"They say in England that govern­
ments may come and governments
may go, but the permanent officials
go on forever. I am sorry to state
that this sees to apply to our country
as well, though our bureau chiefs are
not made permanent by law. We put
new wine into old bottles and the
wine is spoiled.
"Congress may pass laws .basacL
upon a most carefuUconsideration of
human nature and the 'experience of
the past. It may try to make them
so that they may work nearly auto­
matically, yet those who are entrusted
wih their execution may nullify them
cr bring them into ill repute.
Hamper Xcw law.
"The Department of Commerce is
authorized and instructed to make
rules for the enforcement of some of
the most important sections of this
act. Of course, the drafting of these
rules is done by the Bureau of Navi-
Contlnued on Page
STARTS INQUIRY ON
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP
WASHINGTON, March 3.—By a
vote of 39 to 22 the senate went on
record in favor of an inquiry to de­
termine the feasibility of government
ownership and operation of railways
and other public service utilities.
The question was introduced by
Senator Borah who stated that while
he was not committed to government
ownership of public utilities that a
vote in favor of his resolution need
not commit the senate to that policy,
hut the questin was one which the
senate would have to meet sooner or
later and it might be well to have
some information on the subject.
and practicable in all other occupa
I tions is not at all so in the railway
transportation service. He holds 'to
the notion that inasmuch as railroad
conditions have been adjusted to the
ten-hour day, that it is impracticable
to attempt to get away from it. He
refers to the execessive increase in
cost that would accrue "if employes
who are now relatively well paid"
have to be given this advance in
wages.
Mr. Grant overlooked the very im­
portant fact that the men who are
now relatively well paid are not in­
cluded in the demand. He accepts
the railroad statement that if the
shorter work day maintains that re­
ceiverships naturally will follow. He
does not mention the fact that the
railroads now in the hands of re­
ceivers are there because of the fi­
nancial sins of their managements.
Favorable To Railroads.
Very many other statements are
made which summed up can be ac­
cepted as being in favor of the posi­
tion taken by the railways to the
effect that, the shorter work day is
impracticable and impossible, al­
though "it does not follow that the
present hours of labor may not be re­
duced: It is a question of costs."
Again we quote Mr. Grant: "They,
the railroads, are not in the class of
employers who pay below, or even
close to what is commonly under­
stood as the bare existence line. The
earnings of train crews on the aver­
age are the highest of any group of
wage-workers in the country." if
Mr. Grant did not understand the sit­
uation, as we believe he does, tht
goi
The city commissioners have voted to order the city
attorney to appeal the armory referendum case to the
supreme court. Three commissioners voted to appeal
anl two voted against it. The city attorney threw cold
water on the proposition and advised that is was not
worth while to go up with the case.
If he is to handle the matter alone and he is to go
the supreme court with the case in a half-hearted
/inner, the commissioners might as well throw the
money it will cost into the lake. Indeed it would be
much better for the referendum in a larger sense if
the supreme court never gets the case unless its side
can be presented by an attorney who ha£ some sympathy
for the principle involved. A dangerous precedent may
be established by the court that will operate against the
use of the referendum in the future, not only in Duluth
but throughout the state.
Some things are happening down at the city hall
these days that are shaking the faith of men in com­
mission form of government. The attitude of the ma­
jority members of the commission with relation to the
armory sale and the treatment they gave to the refer­
endum proposition has virtually destroyed, what little
of democracy that remained in the system. Their later
conduct, and particularly the position taken by the city
attorney in the case, has made men skeptical of their
ability to promote efficiency any better than their pre­
decessors under the old form of government.
The manner in which the referendum case was
handled before Judge Dancer is a disgrace to the city.
The people were without representation. Mr. Jenswold
for the Shriners and Mr. Samuelson for the city enter­
tained the same views as to the sufficiency of the peti­
tions. They both agreed that the ten-day provision
did not apply, and if it did it would be possible for not
more than two disgrunted citizens with an ulterior
motive to hold up an ordinance for forty or fifty days.
A condition worse than that now obtains. Two lawyers
and a court may hold up an ordinance indefinitely,
through the possible ulterior motive of the client of
one of the lawyers.
In the first place it. is not contended by the advo­
cates of the referendum that a petition containing the
names of electors amounting in number to less than
ten percent of the total vote cast at the last preceding
general municipal election should have any legal stand­
ing as an instrument to prevent an ordinance from
ng into effect,
When a petition is filed within thirty days from the
last ^blfcatioif ~6r an ordinance* passed 1/y^tfie cotincil/
and such petition contains a list of names amounting in
number to ten per cent or more of the total vote cast
at the last preceding election, it should automatically
suspend such ordinance without any further question
for a period of ten days at least. On the other hand,
if such petition does not contain a list of supposed
electors, equaling in number ten per cent of the total
vote cast at the last preceding election the clerk should
refuse to accept the petition.
Now as to the additional time'provided for in the
GIVES P. 0. LABORERS
$10 MONTHLY RAISE
WASHINGTON", March 3.—The house
has accepted the recommendation of its
post office committee that post office
laborers be paid an annual minimum
wagre of $840. Nine hundred laborers
will be increased from $720 under this
amendment.
Congressman Sisson of Mississippi
made an unsuccessful attempt to elimi­
nate the compensation-for-injury legis­
lation for certain employes in the pos­
tal service who are killed or injured
while on duty. The southern repre­
sentative defeated an attempt to in­
clude other postal employes in this
legislation by raising the point that It
was not germane to an appropriation
bill.
"average wage" might be excused but
he knows that overtime tells the story
of railroad wages that reach the
"above the existence line." This is
not unusual and is exactly what was
expected by railway employes. They
did not, however, expect that Mr.
Grant would presume to use his for­
mer connection with the Industrial
Relations Commission to give the im­
pression that that Commission was
back of the railways and opposed to
the demand of the railway employes.
President W. G. Lee, of the Broth­
erhood of Railroad Trainmen, wrote
the Honorable Frank P. Walsh, chair­
man of the Industrial Relations Com­
mission, during its life, and now
chairman of the industrial Relations
Committee, calling his attention to
the story issued by Mr. Grant and his
designating himself as a special agent
of the Commission.
Walsh Repudiates Grant.
That Mr. Walsh does not give color
to anything said by Mr. Grant, or
that the Industrial Relations Commit­
tee, which has succeeded the Com­
mission, is in no wise in sympathy
with anything he said, is attested by
a public letter from Mr. Walsh in
reply to an inquiry as to whether or
not Mr. Grant was employed by the
Industrial Relations Commission and
now had authority to sign his articles
as its agent. The reply herewith fol­
lows:
Charging the Conference Commit­
tee of Managers of the railroads of
the United States with a deliberate
attempt to deceive the public, Frank
P. Walsh today, February 16, 1916,
issued a statement repudiating and
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PBOGRESS.
DTJLUTH AND SUPERIOR, MARCH 4,1916.
CITY MAY AS WELL THROW MONEY IN LAKE
UNION MACHINISTS
WIN ANOTHER RAISE
HAMILTON, Ohio, March 3.—
Members of the Machinists' union
employed by the Hamilton Machine
Tool company have been granted a 10
per cent wage, increase. About 100
machinists were on strike for 15
weeks and finally secured the ad­
vance, which took effect last week.
The eight-hour day- will, be secured
April 1.
VRGK STATE UNIVERSITY.
BOSTON, March 3.—Representatives
of the state branch of the American
Federation of Labor urged the state
legislative committee on education to
favor a bill providing for the estab­
lishment of a state university.
RAILROADS ATTEMPT TO HIDE BEHIND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS REPORT
denouncing the use of the name of
the United States Commission on In­
dustrial Relations in connection with
the distribution of a pamphlet attack­
ing the eight-hour movement of the
railroad Brotherhoods.
The pamphlet is entitled "Wages
and Hours of Railroad Employes,"
and is by Luke Grant, who is desig­
nated on the cover and again on the
title page as "Special Agent for the
United States Industrial Commission."
After characterizing Grant's dis­
cussion of the eight-hour movement
of the Brotherhoods as "a skillful
piece of special pleading, in which
facts are distorted for the evident
purpose of prejudicing the public
against the men," Mr. Walsh says:
Not an Agent of Commission.
"Grant is not an agent of the In­
dustrial Commission and has not been
since last July. The Commission, as
was well known to the railroad man­
agers when they put out this pam­
phlet, expired by statutory limitation
in August, and .their use of this desig­
nation of Grant is a deliberate and
willful attempt to deceive the public
and to give the prestige of the Com­
mission to a document that, was not
entitled to it and that without it
would carry no weight.
"The Commission made no investi­
gation whatever into conditions of
employment in the train service of
the railroads, and whatever informa­
tion Mr. Grant possessed on the sub­
ject must have been handed- to. him
by the railroads or obtained from
other sources. His statement sounds
suspiciously like an echo of that Is­
sued by the railroads themselves
charter the clerk is given ten days to examine petitions
to ascertain whether or not a sufficient number of
signers are qualified electors. Should he find by this
examination that a number of signers were not quali­
fied electors and by striking these out it would bring
the number of petitioners below the ten per cent re­
quirement of the charter he is directed to make cer­
tification thereof, and the interested parties to the peti
|ion are given a further ten days to make up the
insufficiency.
This is the spirit of the city charter. As a matter
•£f fact it is the letter of the charter, that is if one wants
^to read it as a friend of popular government.
The petition filed with the city clerk in opposition
.to the passage of the armory ordinance contains 1455
aames of supposed electors, and only 1322 were re­
quired to temporarily suspend the ordinance. There
6an be no ulterior motive behind a petition containing
this number of names. The fact that there were 1455
signatures attached to the petition was evidence of
good faith on the part of the petitioners.
Until after these petitions were filed both the city
clerk and the petitioners were of the opinion that a
"qualified elector" was a citizen who would have a right
to register and vote should an election be held now.
•After the petitions had been filed City Attorney Samuel
son ruled that a qualified elector must be a registered!
elector. As a result of this decision the names of 400
signers, more or less, were counted out by the city
clerk. However, a number of these were later counted
When it was found that-they-had: voted in another dis­
trict thanwhere they now-live.: The petitioners in good
faith-, believing they were within the law, secured 525
additional signers, all registered electors, within the ten
days provided for in the charter. The petition con­
tained finally 1980 names, all of whom could vote on
the ordinance if an election were to be held today.
The majority members of the charter commission
declared last Monday evening that they intended when
grafting the charter that the referendum provision
Should apply, not as ruled by the court, but as main­
tained by The Labor World and the petitioners. We
i^ve always believed that the courts when arriving at
aj conclusion as to the meaning of the law, gave con­
sideration to the intent of the law makers. In the
armory case the intent of the charter commission was
6§^dently overlooked.
It will be a crime if the city commissioners do not
|ist that the city attornejf be directed to secure the
ice* of a la wye* who is known to be a friend of
tie referendum, and jaflUcuIariy onfe who syo^ffalwii
with the viewpoint of the charter commission *hd the
petitioners when making his appeal to the supreme
court.
The city commissioners should see sufficiently into
the future to realize the consequences to commission
form of government if the referendum feature of the
charter is to be placed by judicial legislation beyond the
reach of the average man. They should insist upon
fair deal for the referendum, if not for the public wel­
fare, than for their own security.
CHURCH OFFICERS FEAR
ROCKEFELLER'S OFFER
NEW ORJK, -Mar. 3.—Trade union
agitation against the Rockefeller
Foundation is bearing fruit, and now
dignitaries of ..the Episcopal church
are looking for the "concealed Afri­
can" that is always associated with
the oil king's "generosity."
At a meeting of the church's, board
of, foreign missions in this city it was
dtcidftjl to accept the Rockefeler Foun­
dation donation for a university and
hospital in China only on condition
that such acceptance "does not inter­
fere in any way with our own control
of our church institutions."
Bishop Nelson, of Atlanta, opposed
acceptance. "There may be strings to
this ofer and we may find ourselves
tied up to outside institutions," he
said. The offer is being investigated.
"Mr. Grant since he left the em­
ploy of the Commission has been em­
ployed by the Tariff Commission
League, and in that employment he
has attempted to capitalize his stand­
ing with organized labor, acquired in
past years as an active trade union­
ist. Grant's attack on the railroad
Brotherhoods shows him in his true
character as a hostile critic of the
labor movement and a champion of
those interests that are always ready
to reward men of his type.
"This dishonest use of the name of
the Commission is not the first evi­
dence that the railroads are deter­
mined to sacrifice the truth in their
campaign to turn the public against
the men who operate the trains, and
to defeat the movement to relieve
them from excessively long hours of
labor.
Walsh Is Emphatic.
"In their own names, the railroad
managers have issued a statement
which for deliberate and shameless
misrepresentation of the facts has
never been surpassed. This statement
asserted flatly and without qualifica­
tion that the men were demanding
large increases in pay. Not until two
thirds of a column had been occupied
by these statements did the author
incidentally mention the fact that the
men are proposing, not higher wages,
but relief from ..ten,, twelve, fourteen
and sixteen hour work dayS, and this
in the freight service only."
"Not a cent of additional pay is de­
manded by the men except for. time
in excess of eight hours, and titer
eight hours the men ask time-and
one-half for overtime only when the
Minnesota
ZTO&iCh
IETY
FOR INEFFICIENCY
Senator Kenyon Sees Moral In
Rejection of Army and
Navy Applicants.
LOW WAOES RESULT
IN WEAK CHILDREN
Startling Revelations In Senate
Child Poverty Has Bearing
On National Health.
WASHINGTON, March 3.—"The
army and navy departments report
that over 50 per cent of the men who
apply for enlistment are rejected as
being physically and mentally unfit
for the service," said Senator Kenyon,
of Iowa, discussing the joint resolu­
tion which he introduced today in the
Senate, authorizing the President to
appoint a. commission to inquire into
the causes of child poverty and sug
gest remedies .therefor.
"Inefficiency in adults must have
some cause," continued the Senator.
"In England at the beginning of the
war 60 per cent of the men who ap­
plied were rejected as unfit. In Ger­
many 10 per cent are rejected as
unfit.
Death Rate Among Poor.
"The Children's Bureau reports
that the infants of men who earn $10
a week dies at the rate of 225 per
1,000, while the infants of men who
earn $25 a week or more dies at the
rate of only 84 per 1,000. In other
words, the babies of the poor die at
three times the rate of those who are
in fairly well-to-do families.
"The Industrial Relations Commis­
sion reported that 79 per cent of the
fathers of wage-earning families earn
less than $700 per year. This means
that between one-half and two-thirds
of these families were living below
the standards of decent subsistence,
while about one-third were living in
a state of abject poverty.
Children Are Separated.
"And Judge Henry Neil, the father
of mothers' pensions, reports that his
investigation of the problem of child
poverty shows that thousands of chil­
dren are separated from their moth­
ers on account of poverty and that
the depriving of children of mother
love tends, to make inefficient and un
patriotieadults."
Senator Kenyon believes that the
problem of child poverty has a direct
bearing on the efficiency of the na­
tion in its relation to "preparedness."
"We must prepare the human re­
sources as well as the material. It is
just as important—in fact, more im­
portant—that we take care of our
human resources properly as that we
conserve our material resources. A
nation of unfits is not the kind of a
nation out of which to build a decent
civilization or one whicli will be prop­
erly prepared to resist invasion."
BALDWIN LOCOMOTIVE
WORKS' HUGE PROFITS
PHILADELPHIA, March 3.—In its
report for the year ending Dec. 15,
1915, the Baldwin locomotive works
shows net earnings of $3,510,383,
against $981,754 during the preceding
year.
The production of the year
amounted to $19,339,934 of locomo­
tives and the other usual products of
the works, and to $2,743,077 of other
work resulting from the war.
The Baldwin concern styles itself
an "open shop" which means that a
trade unionist jeopardizes his position
in he openly advocates organization
by the workers.
speed of the train averages less than
12% miles an hour."
"The successful mendacity of the
railroad managers is shown in the
headlines that were placed above this
statement in good faith by newspaper
editors who wislied to convey the sub­
stance of the statement. These head­
lines conveyed the impression univer­
sally that the men were demanding
large increases in wages."
"Further to prejudice the men's
case and prevent a fair public hear­
ing, the railroad managers in their
statement to the public confused the
eight-hour day with the suggestion of
higher freight rates, or a reduction
in interest and dividend payments."
Eight Hour Day the Issue.
"The only question, now at issue is
whether or not the eight-hour day,
universally recognized as the longest
period of labor that should be re­
quired, should be enjoyed by the men
who are responsible for the safety of
lives and property on American rail­
roads."
"To raise the question of freight
rates or dividend payments in this
connection is as far beside the point
as it would be to raise the question
of whether or, not the railroad presi­
dents and* managers should be sent to
jail for stealing billions of dollars of
public lands In the west for wreck­
ing railroad after railroad by the is­
suing of worthless stocks and bonds
for voting huge commissions and
secret rake offs to favored bankers
and brokers for bribing public offi­
cials and debauching legislatures or
for conspiring with great industrial
corporations to crush competition.
I The working class movement to
iUe most effective must be conducted
by the workers themselves in the In­
terest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
Falsehoods of National Aagnpjy
tion of Manufacturers Libel
On Labor.
AND THEY ARE SENT
OUT BY U. S. BUREAU
Chairman Frank Walsh Demand*
Quick Repudiation By Chief
Of Education.
WASHINGTON, March 3.—Franlt
P. Walsh, chairman of the committee
on industrial relations, in a letter to
Commissioner of Education P. P. Clax
ton demanded a repudiation by him
of a pamphlet on industrial education
prepared by the National association
of Manufacturers and distributed un
der government authority by the Bu­
reau of Education.
The letter follows:
Hon. P. p. Claxton,
Commissioner, Bureau of Education,'
Department of Interior,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir: I have at hand a copy
of a phamplet entitled, "Report of
the committee on Industrial Educa­
tion, H. E. Miles, Chairman of the Na­
tional Association of Manufacturers."
At the bottom of the cover are printed
the words: "Reprinted for Distribu­
tion by Bureau of Education, Wash­
ington, D. C."
Furnished U. S. Paplilets.
I am reliably informed that the Na­
tional Association of Manufacturers
furnished you with thousands of these
paihphlets under an agreement, on
your part, to send them broadcast
throughout the country under the au­
thority of the United States govern­
ment.
I cannot too strongly protest against
the action of a government official,
appointed and paid to promote the ed­
ucation of the nation's youth, in thus
giving recognition, sanction and ap­
proval to an organization which lias,
been discredited in the minds of all
decent citizens who are familiar with
its record as a corrupting agency in
public life and a champion of the
grossest and most shameful forms of
exploitation.
X. A, M. Fought Child Labor Bill
-At tfco jrery when yo«^w»r»
engaged In spreading the propaganda
of this organization its official legisla­
tive representative, the notorious J.
A. Emery, was appearing before the
committees of congress in opposition
to the Keating Child Labor bill,, and
he there stated that, in attempting to
block legislation to keep children un­
der 14 out of southern cotton mills, he
was acting for the board of directors
of the association whose literature yoa
are distributing.
A report on the industrial education
of our children, published by such an
organization, would, to those familiar
with its records, carry as much weight
and no more than a report on the
moral welfare of American girls if is­
sued by a notorious band of procurers.
Yet, by lending the government
stamp and approved to this document,
you have placed it in the hands of
thousands of men and women who
may be deceived by this misuse of
government authority, and whose
views on the greatest educational issue
of the time may thus be unconsciously
perverted.
Not Worthy of Notice.
Without giving the phamplet an in­
stant's consideration, it should have
Ijeen enough for you that it was pub­
lished by the National Association of
Manufacturers, an organization that
Continued on Page Z,
and to build monopolies for the rob*
bing of the people."
"Still further to confuse the issue,
the railroads have started a discus­
sion regarding the advisability of &
government wage board to fix wages
for railroad employes. If such a plan
were to be initiated by Congress and
the federal government, it would
mean that Congress is attempting to
check an advance in pay for wage
earners when it attempts no such
thing for those classes of exploiters
and profit takers who take infinitely
heavier toll from the community for
no useful service whatsoever. The
federal government has not yet at­
tempted to regulate the issuing of
railroad securities, and with govern­
ment consent the roads have been
robbed of hundreds of millions
through the issuing of watered
stocks and bonds."
Not Government Ownership.
"Nor should the question of gov­
ernment ownership be raised in this
connection. Government ownership
of railroads is as sure to come aa
there is sure to be a more equitable
distribution of wealth, and freedom
and justice for. wage earners. But
these lines of progress must -be kept
separate and distinct.
In Washington today the govern­
ment is paying street cleaners $1.25 a
day, from which they must buy uni­
forms and pay for their cleaning.
Government.ownership is sound and.
the question of justice' to the .wage
earners. Even' under government
ownership, the employes must have
the right to organize and act to*
gether, and even to strike."
