X81S
JffS. .J1 A. 4 1796 r rr, I fTN. RffSf
VOL LVIII. NO. 55
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1916
SIXTEEN PAGES.
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich0 oub!a That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
ft n nwpi A IP PFI17 1 T-:
ft DAI 1 IX ur UU.'v-
Around the Village of Douaumont, Which is in
Hands of ths German Forces
FORCED TO BREAK GROUND BY FRENCH ATTACKS
French Have Regained Part of the Ground Lost and the Fight
ing is Unabated From the Region of Malancourt to the
Woerve Region the Teutons Are Trying to Force Their
Way Closer to the Fortress of Verdun, But the French
Are Tenaciously Holding Them Back There is Artillery
Activity in the Argonne Forest and in Upper Alsace
Russians Have Captured Town of Bitlis in Turkish Ar
menia.
Around the village of Douaumont,
irtilch is in the hands of the Germans,
there is raging- a battle of great in
tensity. Having captured the village
and extended thei rlines west and
fouth, the Germans were forced to
rive ground before vicious attacks of
the French, who regained part of the
terrain they had lost. The fighting
here Is proceeding unabated.
From the region of Malancourt, west
xf the Mouse, to the "Woevre region,
east of Verdun, the bombardments are
violent, the Germans endeavoring to
force their way closer to the fortress
of Verdun and the French tenaciously
striving to hold them back. Several
assembling points of the Germans
have been vigorously shelled by the
French, especially in the vicinity of
Beaumont.
The Germans admit that in the re
gion of Ypres the British recaptured
the positions the Germans took from
them Feb. 14, but say that they were
immediately driven out of most of
them.
The British, however, declare that
they have consolidated most of these
positions.
There has been considerable artil
lery activity in the Argonne forest and
in upper Alsace, an infantry engage
ment in which elements of German
trenches were taken by the French.
Comparative quiet prevails on the
BUFFALO PLANTS CLOSED
BECAUSE OF STRIKES.
8,000 Others Laid Off When 1,800 Ma
chinists Quit Work.
Buffalo, N. T.. March 3- (Additions
to the ranks of the striking machinists
today resulted in the closing of the
plants of the Ericcson Manufacturing
company and the King Sewing Ma
chine company, both firms laying off
al hands when the machinists struck.
At the headqarters of the Interna
tional Association of Machinists It
was claimed that about 1800 men had
answered the strike call and that the
total of men idle was more than 6,000.
The former figure was disputed by the
manufacturers, who placed the total
at less than half the union's figures,
but it was conceded the number of idle
men, due to strike or lockout, was
at least 6,000.
Strikes also were called today at
the Lake Erie Engineering company
and the Snow Steam Pump Works,
wfaere shop committees had been ne
gotiating for a compromise on the
men's demands for an eight hour day,
a minimum wage of 40 cents an hour
and the closed shop.
HOTCHKISS CLUB OF YALE
ESTABLISHES A SCHOLARSHIP
To be Awarded by the Graduating
Class at Hotchklss School.
New Haven, March 3. Announce
ment was made tonight at the 14th
annual banquet of the Hotchklss Club
of Tale that the club has established
a fund of $4,000 for a scholarship at
Yale. This scholarship is to be award
ed by the graduating class at Hotch
klss school, to that self-supporting
member of the class entering Yale,
who, in the opinion of the class, is
most deserving of help.
The money for the fund has been
raised Ijv alumni of the school who
have also attended Yale. There are
at presen tlol Hotchkiss men at the
university.
DERBY STRIKERS DECLINE
TO ACCEPT PIECEWORK.
Want Day Work With Minimum of
30 Cents an Hour.
Derby, Conn., March 3. The strikers
at the General Ordnance company to
day formally completed their demands.
The men refuse to be paid for piece
work, but want to he paid by the day;
they want time and one-half for over
time and double time for Sundays and
holidays, and insist that no discrimina
tion against the strikers be shown.
They also demand a minimum rate of
80 cents an hour for non-productive
work and 37 1-2 cents an hour for pro
ductive work.
The strikers, who are beirrg organ
ized, claim that 150 men are out The
company says the number la not more
than 32.
FIRED ON TWICE
BY MYSTERIOUS SHIP,
Captain Griffiths of British Steamer
8wlft Wings 8o Reports.
I
Wow port News, Ta March 3. Cap
tain Griffiths of the British steamer
8wi5 wings reported on the ship's
arrival hare tonight that he was fired
on tiwiee by a mysterious ship about
600 miles off the Virginia capes twelve
days ago. Simultaneously Captain
Johnson of the British steamship Lady
Plymouth, brought in to Norfolk a re
,'port that be had been chased for 86
hours toy a mysterious craft, which he
gnauy eluded in the cawenes.
the
Russian front. Along the line in the
Alps and on the Isonzo river sector the
Austrians and Italians continue their
bombardments and attacks here and
there by infantry, but without mate
rially changing their positions.
The Russians have captured the
town of Bitlis in the Lake Van district
of Turkish Armenia and elsewThere in
the Caucasus region and in Persia are
keeping up their vigorous offensive
against the Ottoman forces.
An official communication from the
Turkish army headquarters says the
east and west coast districts of Aden
have come under Ottoman rule as the
result of the submission of the tribes
men. The Turks also report a defeat
decently of the British near Dafiuch,
in the neighborhood of Aden, but the
British official press bureau denies that
an engagement took place there.
The British have reoccupied Sidi
Barani in western Egypt, which had
been in the hands of Senussl tribes
men, commanded by Turkish officers.
The town was occupied without re
sistance. A German seaplane has been cap
tured in the North sea off the Belgian
coast while returning from England.
One of its occupants had been drowned.
The other was made prisoner. It is
thought probable this craft is the one
that bombarded the southeast coast of
England "Wednesday, night.
COMPRESSED AIR EXPLOSION
INJURES FOUR MEN
In Grand Trunk Railway Roundhouse
at East Deering, Me.
Portland. Me,, March 3. Four men
were painfully injured today by the
explosion of the main reservoir for
compressed air on a shifting engine in
the Grand Trunk railway roundhouse
in the East Deering section. The in
jured were George Newton, E. H. Ste
vens and James Hayes, an engineer,
all of this city, and Harland L. Da
mon, of South Paris, a fireman.
Newton, the most seriously injured,
sustained a broken leg.
ARRAIGNED ON CHARGE
OF MURDERING FATHER
Albert Roper of Lowell, Mass, Held
Without Bail.
Lowell, Mass., March Z. Albert Ro
per was arraigned in police court this
afternoon charged with the murder of
his father, Albert Roper, Sr., whose
body was found in one of his hot
houses at Tewksbury, Wednesday
night. Roper entered a plea of not
guilty and was held without bail un
til March 14. His defense is in ihe
nature of an alibi. He states he was
in Boston on the night of the murder.
BODY FOUND IN HOME;
BULLET WOUND IN HEAD
David Merritt of Salem Believed to
be a Suicide.
Salem, Mass., March 3. The body of
David Merritt, one of the oldest resi
dents om Salem and for 50 years an
expressman between this city and
Boston, was found in his .home today
with a bullet wound in the head. A
revolver lay nearby and the medical
examiner announced that it was a
case of suicide. Members of the fam
ily stated that they were unable to
give any reason for the act.
SHORTAGE OF FUEL
AT ST. JOHN'S. N. F.
Residents Make Daily Trips to Woods
for Supplies.
St. John's, N. F., March 8. More
wood has been used here for fuel this
winter than for many years previous.
Many people in the city have obtained
all of their fuel by daily trips to the
woods owing to the scarcity and high
price of coal brought about by the
shortage of shipping facilities because
of the war.
Movements of Steamships.
Azores, Feb. 28. Arrived: steamer
Cretlc, New York and Boston for Na
ples. Palermo, Feb. -29. Sailed: steamer
Patrla, New York.
New York, March 9. Signalled:
steamer Stockholm, Gothenburg via
Greenock for New York, 1250 miles
east of Sandy Hook at noon. Dock
8.30 a, m. Monday.
Kirkwall, March 1. Arrived:
steamer Bergensfjord, New York for
Bergen.
New York, Martfh 8 Sailed: steam
er Canopio, Naples.
London, March 3 Arrived: steamer
Minnehaha, New York.
Rotterdam, March 1 Sailed: steam
er Noordam, New York.
Physician 8uicides After an AH Night
Vigil.
TJtlca, N. Y, March 3. After an all
night vlil with a patient seriously
111, Dr. Andrew 3. Butler of TJnadilla,
returned to his home this morning, ex
hausted, ate breakfast with his family
and then cot his throat.
cabled Paragraphs
Holding Potatoes in Berlin.
Berlin, March 3, 9.30 a. m.. via Lon
don, 4.05 p. m. Potato growers who
hold back potatoes until they are ex
propriated will in the future lose by
such action under the new regulations
adopted by the Federal council.
DEMURRER TO ONE
INDICTMENT SUSTAINED
In Cass of German Consul Bopp at
San Francisco.
San Francisco, March 3. Judge Mau
rice T. Dooling, in the United States
district court here today, sustained a
demurrer to one of the indictments
against Franz Bopp, German consul,
and five others charging conspiracy to
set on foot a military expedition to
effect the destruction of British prop
erty. A second indictment, charging
conspiracy to interfere with and de
stroy commerce between the United
States and other countries, was not
sustained by the court. In addition to
Bopp, those under indictment are
Baron W. H. Von Sehack. German con
sul; George Wllhelm Von Brincken,
attache to the consulate: Charles C.
Crowley, detective employed by the
consulate; Mrs. Margaret V. Cornell,
employed by Crowley, and .1. H. Van
Koolberg, said to have been hired to
carry out certain alleged bomb plots
in Canada.
The court sustained the demurrer on
the ground that there was nothing in
the indictment apprising the defend
ants of what they were accused of be
yond the general statement that they
had "conspired to set on foot a mili
tary expedition for the purpose of de
stroying ships belonging to Germany's
enemies, and blowing up bridges, rail
roads and factories in Canada."
The court declared further that the
Indictment contained nothing to show
that the activities in connection with
alleged bombing of bridges and fac
tories in Canada constituted what
could be called a "military expedition"
and was not merely directed against
the Individual owners of the property
destroyed and threatened.
FIVE MEN REPORTED
. LOST IN BARGE WRECK
Off Scituate at Southern Entrance to
Boston Harbor.
Boston, March 3. Five men were re
porter! lost tonight in the wreck of a
barge off Scituate at the southern en
trance of this harbor. A blizzard was
raging and two other barges, part of a j
tow of three, were reported drifting
ashore.
Another barge, coal loden, like the
first, was anchored just beyond the
edge of the breakwater late tonight.
The North Scituate life savers had
boarded her, but found the crew un
willing to be taken off, when cries of
distress came from the second barge
as she went into the breakers. The
life savers hurried towards her, but
before they could near her the surf had
apparently washed the crew overboard.
One body was later picked up on the
beach.
The life savers reported they were
unable to learn the identity of the
barges. The hailing port "Philadel
phia" was read across the stern of one
and it was believed they were bound
from a coal port for Boston.
The tug disappeared in the snow and
darkness soon after the two barges
drifted ashore. A third barge which
the life savers thought formed part of
the same tow a'so went out of eielit,
but it was thought she may have
weathered the storm, as there was no
trace of her along the beach.
STRIKING SHIRT MAKERS
CREATE DISTURBANCE
New York Police Compelled to Arrest
Some of the Ringleaders.
New York, March 3.- The first se
rious disorder which has marked the
strike of thirtm.il'r: :: in this city, be
gun two weeks iiu, occurred today.
Women strikers bombarded with
bricks, stones and other missiles non
union workers who were beVg taken
in automobiles to p-smts in the Wil
liamsburg section. Tho police were
obliged to use force in quelling the
disturbance and the alleged ringlead
ers were arrested. Several of the
strikebreakers were badly bruised.
!rs. J. Sarsreni Oram and other so
ciety women exerted their influence
today to restrain girl pockets from
arguing with policemen. Mrs. Cram
asserted that the strikebreakers who
are being used know little English
and therefore do not understand the
conditions surrounding the strike. The
workers who are out demand higher
wages and shorter hours.
Announcement was made late todav
by the executive committee of the, In
ternational Mercantile Tailors Pro
tective Association that the shops of
its members in thes city, 12,000 of
whose employes are on strike, will be
opened with strikebreakers unless an
agreement with the union is quickly
reached.
CRIMINALLY RESPONSIBLE
FOR DEATH OF HIS MOTHER
Finding of Coroner Mix Against John
Overus of Hamden.
New Haven, March 3. John Overus,
24 years old, of Hamden, is held crim
inally responsible for the death of his
mother, Mrs. Ag-nes Overus. in a find
ing handed down today by Coroner
Eli Mix. The aged woman was found
dead in her home in Hamden on Feb.
IS with a gunshot wound through the
body.
The coroner in his finding says that
the son returned to his home on the
night of Feb. 18 in an intoxicated con
dition, quarreled with his mother, as
saulted her and then inflicted the
gunshot wound which caused death.
'tne youth has been held without
bail pending the coroner's finding. It
is expected that the grand Jury will
consider his case tomorrow.
GIFTS TOTALLING $23,400
FOR OLD EMPLOYES
Of the Brockton Factory of E. E. Tay
lor & Co.
Brockton. March 8. Cash sifts to
talling $23,40 were distributed among
the old employes at the Brockton fac
tory of the E. E. Taylor company to
day by General Superintendent Jo
seph Hewett.
The money, bequeathed by the late
Edward E. Taylor, was paid In checks.
It took the general superintendent all
day to distribute the gifts.
Oporatives who had worked In the
factory for ten consecutive years prior
to tne oeatn or Mr. Taylor received
S100 each.
Foremen and office help, who had
been employed by the company for
four years previous to the maniit.
turer-8 death, were each given J200.
3,100 Lives Lost
on French Cruiser
GREATEST OCEAN DISASTER
MODERN TIMES
OF
4,000 ABOARD, 870 SAVED
French Auxiliary Cruiser Provence
Was Conveying Troops When Sunk
in the Mediterranean.
Paris, March 3, 12.55 a. m. It was
announced at the French ministry of
marine today that there were nearly
4.000 men on board the French auxil
iary cruiser Provence when she was
sunk in Mediterranean on Feb. 26.
it was t-iated that on board the
i-rovence were the staff of the Third
Colonial Infantry Regiment the Thir.i
Battalion and Second company of the
First Battalion, the Second Machine
Cun company and one extra company,
in tin utriiriy s.iruu men.
As the ministry of marine on Feb. 29
announced that the number of sur-
"' vl me r-rovence disaster was
BULLETIN SEVENTH IN STATE
The forty-eighth year of continuous publication brings us the 1916
edition of The American Newspaper Annual and Directory, a com
prehensive review of the American nwspaper and magazine field. The
book is full of valuable Information for all who have dealings with
periodical publications of every type. The facts and figures descrip
tive of each of the 24.589 publications listed are presented in a most
complete, yet condensed and get-at-able form.
As always, special attention has been given to the important matter
of circulation figures.
Supplementary to the general catalogue are 232 classified lists, in
cluding dallies, magazines, women's, mall-order, agricultural, religious,
and all the various trade and class publications, covering almost every
field of human effort and interest, each class listed under its own had.
The caro expended on keeping this section abreast of the times Is
indicated by some of its lists: Aeronautics. Moving Pictures. Esperanto,
Safety, Antl-Tuberculosis, Woman Suffrage, Anti-Suffrage, a list of
Journals In raised type for the blind, etc. The foreign language lists,
ranging from Arabic to Yiddish, are under 36 separate heads.
An especially valuable feature Is a vast amount of up-to-date
gazetteer information, giving the latest population figures and the
transportation, banking and other facilities in each of the 11.692 towns
in which newspapers are published, together with the leading Industries,
productions and other features of the place and vicinity. This descrip
tive matter Is supplemented by a specially prepared map of each state,
showing practically every newspaper town. Convenience and concise
ness have been studied throughout, and the book places at the disposal
of publishers, of advertisers, of business men, of students, librarians,
etc., a vast amount of fresh Information not to be procured elsewhere.
The Annual and Directory Is now the only publication of it3 kind
which Is compiled from informal.; n gathered with such -thoroughriess
each year from original sources. Mr. George P.' Rowell was the first
to compile such a work, and for many years ho Issued the American
Newspaper Directory. Following his death, the Directory, with its
records, copyrights and property, was sold to N. W. Ayer & Son, who
combined it with their well-known Annual.
The circulation figures of Connecticut papers follows The Bulletin's
being the seventh largest:
Bridgeport Post .- 13,228. S
Bridgeport Telegram 1L5S8 S
Danbury News 593ES
Hartford Courant 16798S
Hartford Times 24,054S
fi'eriden Journal ; 7 CCO
Meriden Record 4 5,768
Middletown Penny Press 8.436P. O
New Britain Herald 6.C45 "
New Haven Register . . 18.125P. O.
New Haven Times-Leader 13.291s"
New London Cay..- 7 940
Norwalk Hour 2821
NORWICH BULLETIN : 8,P453
Norwich Record .,.... 3,561 P. O
Stamford Advocate 5 067"
Waterbury Republican 8,088S
Detailed circulation statement.
S Detailed sworn circulation statement.
P. O. P. O. circulation statement.
estimated at S70 it Is indicated by
the foregoing despatch that upwards
of "130 lives were lost.
The loss of more than 3,000 lives
in the sinking of the French auxiliary
cruiser Provence is the greatest ocean
disaster of modern times. Up to the
present the largest number of lives
ever lost in one wreck was when the
White Star liner Titanic struck an
iceberg off the Newfoundland Banks.
April 14, 1914, and sank with a loss
of 1.545. The rescued numbered 743.
The French ministry of marine had
previously given out no statement as
to tne number of persons on the Pro
vence when she went down. The ves
sel, however, when in the trans-At
lantic service, could carry 1960 per
sons, including the crew, and it had
been presumed that she was trans
porting trooips between ports not far
distant apart and was carrying a
number of men larger than her nor
mal capacity.
The official statement announcing
the sinking of the Provence said:
"The French auxiliary cruiser Pro
vence IT (so designated to distinguish
her from the French battleship Pro
vence) engaged In transporting troops
to Salonikl, was sunk in the Mediter
ranean Feb. 26. Two hundred and
ninety-six survivors have been
brought to Malta and about 400 to
Melos by French and British patrol
vessels summoned by wireless.
"No 6lgns of a submarine were no
ticed either before or after the sink
ing. La Provence was armed with
cannon of M centimetres, two of 57
millimetres and four of 47 millime
tres." PRUSSIAN DIET REJECTS
THE POLISH AMENDMENT.
Which Provided Settlers Must Not Be
Discriminated Against.
Berlin, March 3. via london, 4.15 p.
m. The debate on the Polish ques
tion was continued todav In the Prus.
sian Diet. The Polish amendment to
the domestic colonization measure
which provided that settlers must not
be discrlnlated against because of re
ligion, race or political activity. wa
rejected by the Diet against the votes
of the Poles. Danes, Socialists, Radi
cals and the members of the Centrist
party.
The colonization measure, carrvine
an appropriation of 200.WO.000 marks
was aacptect.
101 Indictments
Against Brewers
IN VARIOUS PARTS OF PENNSYL
VANIA AND IN NEW YORK
FOR POLITICAL ACTIVITY
Returned by Federal Grand Jury of
Pittsburgh Indictments Make No
Mention of Individuals.
Pittsburgh, Pa., March 3. One hun
dred and one indictments against 100
brewing companies in various parts .f
Pennsylvania and the United Scales
Brewers' association of New York j
were unexpectedly returned late to
day by the federal grand Jury in
vestigating the alleged political ac
tivity of brewers. The indictments,
which are the Iirst returned since the
session opened, charge the brewing
companies and association with con
spiracy in the alleged unlawful ex
penditure of money in elections at
which votes for federal officials were
being cast.
The indictments make no mention
of Individuals but are directed at cor
porations themselves. Fifty-eight of
the companies named are members of
the Pennsylvania Brewers' association
while 42 are members of the United
States Brewers- association. The cor
porations In the first groun are ac
cused Jointly of conspiracy entered In
to, it is alleged, on September 1 1912
"unlawfully. wiifully, knowingly!
fraudulently and feloniously" to make
contributions to political campaigns at
which presidential and vice presiden
tial electors or reresentatives in
congress were to be voted for.
Little Said About Specific Offenses.
Little is said regarding the snwifln
offenses alleged under section eightv
three of the federal penal code, the
so-called federal corrupt practices act
and section 37 of the same act. Under
the section fines not exceeding $5,000
in the iirst and $in.000 in the second
may be assessed. There is also a pro
vision ior xne imprisonment of officers
and directors of the corporation under
both sections.
The grand Jury which has been 1n
session six weeks was at once excussed
by Judge Thompson of the United
tates district court.
GRADE CROSSING ACCIDENT
ON AIR LINE DIVISION.
Train Struck Team and Killed John
W. Swanson of Haddam Neck.
Portland. Conn.. March 2. Th T?laci
Diamond train on the Air Line division
of the New York. New Haven unit
Hartford railroad late todav ran into
a team driven by John W. Swanson of
Haddam Neck, killing, him instantly.
The horse was also killed. Mr. Swan
son was about 55 years old. The acci
dent occurred at Air Line avenue, at
an unprotected grade crossing.
MINE SWEEPESR PRIMULA
TORPEDOED AND SUNK.
While Performing Her Duties In the
Eastern Mediterranean.
London, March 3. The admiralty
announced that the mine-sweeper
Primula was torpedoed and sunk on
March 1 n the Eastern Mediterranean
while performing her usual duties.
All the ofiicers and crew except
tnree men were saved and landed in
Port Said.
This country is the world's largest
consumer of cocoa.
Condensed Telegrams
Denmark has plaoed an embargo on
coffee.
Food plot were reported from sev
eral porta of Spain.
The town hall at Hoi brook, Mats,
was burned at a loss of $25,000.
The House voted, 105 to AC, to re
tain 20-cent mileago for representa
tives. George B Cox, Republican leader of
Cincinnati, stricken with paralysis, is
dead.
Bodies of three more victims of the
Maloja disaster were washed ashore at
Dover, England.
A bill to appropriate $2,000,000 for
the relief of Poianu was introduced by
Senator Hitchcock.
Oliver B. Harriman of New York hn
been designated as secretary to the
American Kmbassy in Berlin.
Holland a cost of mobilization up to
January, 191b, is estimaed at $103,000,
0'iu by the Dutch War Minister.
roreign Duilt vessels admitted to
,vmi-n;.n registry since June 30, la.t
number 36, of 86,167 gross tons.
Great Britain has Drohibited
ulatinn in copper and all other metils
required for the manufacture of wax
materials.
British authorities detained the mail
aboard the Dutch steamship Sommels
diuk. which arrived at Rotterdam from
Sweden has decided to nravint cit
izens of any belligerent country from
auuressmg puonc galhenns in Sweden
during the war.
Reports from Manchester, Eng, state
that $50n.0o0 damage was caused by
me ourning xi tne lintish tanker Spi-
rea mere ectnesday.
Germany has issued an order temo
orarily prohibiting the use of alcohol
in beverages, as the alcohol is needed
lor technical purposes.
As a result of the meat shortage,
ino nussian .Ministry of Agriculture.
issued an order stating that meat may
oe eaten only on live days.
Two hundred members of the Ger
man colony at Lisbon, Portugal, left
for Spain. Most of the German bus
iness houses in Lisbon have been clos
ed.
Reports from Rome say that an un-
successiui attempt was made to as
sassir.ate Czar Ferdinand of Bulgaria,
during nis journey from Sofia to Vi
enna.
An act giving citizens of the Unit
ed States preterence over aliens in
employment on public works was up
held by the Massachusets Supreme
Court. " ' "
Australia has prohibited the sale of
typewriters made by the Remington, on
the ground that that corporation is
suspected of selling to enemies -of the
Allies.
The du Pont Powder interests are re
ported to have offered to charter 12 of
Co.'s freighters, recently withdrawn
from the San Francisco-New York
service.
Catherine A. Montague, aged 22, a
student nurses at the Bridgeport hos
pital, died last night from typhoid fev
er contrateu in a private home where
she was nursing a child.
The annul convention of the North
eastern District of the Delta. UDsilon
I fraternity opened at Colby College,
iiiisusiiis nwuen v . ongaon 01 Co
lumbia University as president
John F. McGrath, an escaped lunatic,
attempted to force his way into Gov
ernor McCall's office In Boston. He
was subdued after a fierce struggle by
Edward Horrigan, bodyguard to the
governor.
Frederico Alphonso Pezet, minists?
from Peru, called at the White House
to give President Wilson his formal
farewell. Minister Pezet has resignea
because his government Is unable to
pay his larary.
A Copenhgen newspaper estimates
that Swedish shiping to the amount
of 50,000 tons has been destroyed by
tne American - liawlian Steamship
German submarines. The lost bhips
were valued at $2,000,000.
Mrs. Henrietta w:'l'm. widow of
General J. S. Williams, Mexican wt
veteran, died at jkjih i-ieiiing. Ky..
aged 90. During the Civil War Mrs.
Williams fitted out a full company of
Confederate Infantry at her own ex
pense.. Efforts to ascertain his identity hav
ing failed, the body of a man of mld-
pital a few hours after the New Hav
pital a few hours :atre the New Hav
en road wreck at Milford on February
, was Duriea at tne railroad s ex
pense. Earl Levi, passenger, and Charles
Matthews, express messenger, are
thoutrht to have been killed when a
snowslide carried the express and bag
gage ar or a Denver & Kio Grande
train Into the Gunnison river near
Denver.
George Edward Aiken, for more than
fifty years prominent in musical cir
cles in New York and Boston, died
today at the Mount Vernon. N. v
hospital, aged Si. He had charge of
the music at the funeral of General
Grant.
William A. West, Princeton Uni
versity and th hefir'-'-v in the es
tate of Richard J. Wyckoff. ag
farmer of F.ei!i.ngin county. N. J..
who was found murdered with his
housekeeper, Katherine Fisher, was
arrested at Flemington, charged with
the doublbe murder.
FORMAL WHITE HOUSE
SOCIAL SEASON CLOSED
Reception in Honor of Army and Na
val Officers.
Washington. March S. The formal
White House social season was
brought to an end tonight with a re
ception given by the president and
Mrs. Wilson In honor of army and
navy officials. The White House was
crowded with guests. The vice presi
dent and Mrs. Marshall and cabinet
members and their wives assisted the
president In receiving.
Middle names were one
as Illegal In England.
regarded
CONGRESS IN ACCORD WITH WILSON!
Senator Gore's Resolution to Warn Americans OE j
Armed Ships Killed, 68 to 14 j
SIMILAR ACTION TAKEN
Foreign Affairs Committee of
to Report the McLemore Warning Resolution With i
Recommendation That It be Tabled Turbulent Scene "
Prevailed in Senate During Taking of the Vote Party
Lines Were Swept Away Senator Gore Himself Voted '
to Table His Own Resolution.
Washington. March 3. By a vote of
6 to It :be Kcmte today carried otu
t resitient nson s wisn and ki.le ,
Senator Gore's res-lution ti w irn
Ameroicans off arme d belligerent ships.
In turbulence such as is seldom
witnessed in the senate, the vot.n;
proceedings with :en:itors shouting ob
jections, f ulileiy t- rn'.imiii.g r-t o;-ni-tion
to explain their p ositions and
making hct r torts u ea:h vther. ail
of which were out f ord'-r. A l one
time so many senators were shouting
for the vice president's recognition
that the s-r?e-tiit-at-arms was called
to restore quiet.
After having manoeuvred f ir two
days to f;et the resolution in such
parliamentary position that it was
disposed of without debate, the sen
ate then proceeded to a eeneral dis
cussion of the subject which contin
ued all n'-.oT-n , p ,, .l rmav of
administr.-' ! " : . - There were
free expressions of opinion that th
?enat ai . : . -.:e vi: actu
ally was l::ken mi a mo, inn ;-i tr.be
the Gore resolution, was a cc;-.vict:on
by the author and a substitute by
Senator McCumber was in effect a
"c tch verdict" and had not actu
ally accomplished the purpose of ihe
president. Such statements aroused
the president's friends who fecr.M they
would produce an effect exactly op-
posiie to that intended a notice to
the world that the senate stands be
hind the president in his demand on
Gcrmnnj- for the rights of Americans
traveling the seas.
Action by House Committee
In the house, however, the foreign
affairs cornittee. by a vote of 17 to 1',
took a longer ste,p toward meeting
fuliy the president's wish. It voted to
repnrt the MeLemore warning reso
lution with the rt commendation that
it be tabled. In the report, the com
mittee a.erts tha t the" constitution
imposed the conduct of diplomatic ne
gotiations on the president and "with
this practice the committee does not
feel it proper for he house of repre
sentatives to inreret'ere."
It probably will be voted on in the
house tomorrow under a special rule.
Administrations forces are confident
of a full fiedgHl victory.
At the White House satisfaction was
experssed with the senate's action.
Gore Voted to Table His Own R-sr-lution.
Senator Gore voted for the motion
to table and declared he considered
the administration victory a mixed
one.
The debate which followed th sen
ate vote was sensational. senator
Lewis, th democratic whip, pleading
with soantors for moderation in their
remarks, declared the Spanish wrr
would have been averted by action
In congress similar to tint taken to
day and that the war wis brought on
by viterupcus debate. Senator Clirk.
democrat, of Arkan:ys. would voted
with the administration forces, de
clared their action did not represent
the real sentiment of the senate. Sen
ator Fall, a repuaiican said:
"Hy your action to. lay you have
sent to the kaiser. If you huve done
anything, notice that the semte cf the
United States will loik upon hU sink
ing of armed merchant ships and the
death of an American citizen proba-
FOUR MEN ARRESTED IN
HARTFORD HELD FOR THEFT.
Alleged They Are Connected With
Theft of Silk at Corona, L. I.
Hartford, Conn., March 3. Four of
the five men said to be wanted by the
New York police and rounded up in a
raid on a rooming house on Capitol
avenue, thla city, last night, were
charged with theft In police court to
day and held for a week under S'oO
bonds each, which were not furnished.
They gave their names as William
Keller. Charles Stanley and Frederick
Ruchall of Philadelphia and Louis
Brown of New London. A fifth, who
gave the name of Michael Ward of
Corona, L. I., but Is claimed by the
police to be Michael Lacentral and a
fugitive from Justice in Queens coun
ty. N. Y., waived extradition and was
taken to New l ork by Detective Ser
geant Hammerich of that city.
It is alleged the men are connected
with the theft of $5.0')Q of silk from
Corona, L. I., two weeks ago.
HEARINGS BEGUN IN
THAW DIVORCE SUIT
At Pittsburg None of the Evidence
Made Public.
Pittsburg, Pa.. March . The hear
ings of the suit for divorce brou -lit
by Harry K. Thaw against his wife,
Kvelyn Nesbit Thaw, opened here to
day before a master appointed by
the court to hear the testimony. The
hearings will be private and none of
the evidence will be made public. Mrs.
Thaw wu not present when the cose
opened today and It was learned that
she was not represented by counsel.
CATHOLIC PRIEST KILLED
IN AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT
Rev. J. J. Lyons of Winchester, Mass.
Went Over Embankment.
Winchester, Mass, March 3. The
Rev. J. J. Lyons, pastor of St. Jo
seph's Roman Catholic church at West
Medford. was killed here todav when
his automobile which he was "driving
SKiaaea over an emoanKment.
was pinned beneath the car.
ii
BY HOUSE COMMITTEE
the Lower Branch Vote 17 to 2 I
bly with some degree of regret, but
, t no action wuuul be taken aeainat
mm.
Borah Call It Evasive Action.
Senator Borah, republican. arralgneA
the senate for what he characterized
as its evasive action. He said o
would "rather have battleships sunk
than have the honor of this senate
compromised before the world.
On the other hand. Senator Kern,
the majority leader, upheld the action,
asserting that it would proclaim to ."
ail nations that the president, in ex
ercising his constiutional powers In 1
the conduct of negotiations, spoke
not for himself nnr for his party, but
for ail the people of his country who
are prepared to uack him with their
Uvf-: in an insistence on Americana
rights."
Emphatically asserting .that there
could be no confusion of the senate
action because of technical parlia
mentary entanglements. Senator Lodge,
ranking republican member of the
foreign relalons committee, said the
senate had gone on record as "op
posing a warning to Americans and
against interference with the execu
tive." Gore Changes Resolution.
The action which effectually dl-
I Posed of the Gore resolution was com-
plex. Senator Stone moved, to bring
the resolution befo'e the senate and
Senator Gore than obtained permis
sion to change his resolution. Retain
ing the original preamble, he substi
tuted the resolution with the follow
ing: "Resolved, that the sinking by a sub
marine without notice or warning of an
armed merchant vessel of her publio
enemy, resulting in the death of- a
citizen of the L'nlted S'ates would
constitute a Just and sufficient cause.
of war betv.ven the. United State and
the German empire."
Substitute Introduced.
Senator McCumbT, a republican, tm-""oi-'t"''-
'ftd'iced a substitute, sim
ilar to Senator Gore's original resolu
tion v.'i-rr:'.;r Americans oit armed
ships, pending negotiations with for
eign powers to revise the rules of In
ternational law to meet the new con
ditions of navel warfare.
Resolution Tabled
Senator James, one of the adminis
tration's leadei:--. then moved to table
all proposals the McCumber resolu
tion, the original and substitute re
olutions offered by Senator Gore and
all amendments. The motion was car
ried with 68 senators 17 democrats
and 21 republicans voing with the
administration and 12 republicans and
two democrats voting against It, The
democrats recorded in the negative
were Senators Chamberlain and O'Gor
man. After his substitute for the Gore
resolution had been slaughtered In
the general motlcn to table. Senator
McCumber of North Dakota re-Introduced
it as a new resolution. Inas
much as it contains a provision for
a warning to Americans to keep off
ships, discussion may arise again when
the senators get an opportunity to
call it up next week. Democratic and
republican leaders asserted, however.-.
that should It be called up It would
be forced to the calendar where other
business would effectually smother It.
PEACE AGITATION
IN CONSTANTINOPLE
Despatches From Athens Dedans It
is Becoming Pronounced.
London, March 4. The morning
newspapers feature despatches from
Athens which declare that agitation in
Constantinople in favor of peace Is
becoming so pronounced that It would
not surprise anyone if Turkey sud
denly capitulated to the entente al
lies. It in reported that Rachml Bev,
governor of the vilayet of Smyrna la
trying to arranee separate peace terms
with the entente.
SUBSCRIPTIONS TO NEW
GERMAN WAR LOAN.
Archbishop of Colonge Advises Invest.
nent of Church Funds.
e-lln. March 3. via London, March
4. 2.. '5 i. m. Subscriptions to the new
war loan are being announced rapidly
and In 'arire sums. One subscription
of 30 ono.ono marks has been taken for
the Raifresen rural credits banks, with
the announcement that it mav be rais
ed later. Other large subscribers are
the Hirsch Copper and Rrass company,
4.000.000 marks: the Continental Tlra
company. 5.750,000 marks: the Provin
cial Insurance Institution of Berlin.
15.000.000 marks. Cardinal Hartmann.
archbishop of Cologne, has sent cir
culars to all churches under his juris
diction advertising the investment of
church funds in the loan.
SEVERE STORM OFF
THE VIRGINIA CAPES
Marine Circles Fear that Shipping Will
Suffer Considerably.
Norfolk, Va, March 3. One of the.
worst storms of the winter Is sweep
ing the Virginia Capes tonight and
marine circles fear that shipping will
suffer considerably. The wind at
Cape Hatteras reached a velocity of
58 miles an hour. The storm was
accompanied by heavy snowfall which
made it impo'-'be for the government
observer at Cape Henry to distinguish
passing ships.
The gas boat Sunol sank during the
gale In Albemarle sound. Captain
John Parker and a mate are beuered
to have been drowned.
