f
Ssun.
THE WEATHER FOR
Snow to-day; clearing in the
IT SHINES FOR ALL
cloudy to-morrow
Highest temperature yesterday, 3
Detailed we atlier, mall and marine rep
PRICE TWO CENTS. 1
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 186.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1916. Copyright, 191, by the Sun rrlnllno and PubUKhino An.orlallon.
DOUAUMONT IS
CENTREOFNEW
VERDUN DRIVE
German Troops Capture
Village After Suffering
Fearful Losses.
FJtEXCH FIGHT BACK
TO TOWN'S OUTSKIRTS
Invaders at Vnux Advance,
but Terrific Fire Forces
Their Retreat.
Fiercest Battle of War
Now in Supreme Stage
Germans, Rested and Reenforcetl During Lull of SiMy
Hours, Dash Furiously Against Intrenched
Heights North of Verdun.
FIVE ARMY CORPS DECIMATED IN WEEK
BRITISH ADOPT i MEXICO ASKS
PLAN OF U.S.T0 ' U.S.T0 ARREST
AID SHIPPERS' DELABARRA
Consul-General Skinner's
Siijrffestion Will Put
End to Losses.
Mexican Ex-President Is
Charged With Foment
ing a Revolt.
German Copy, of British SULLEN SENATE
GIVES WILSON
A FREE HAND
SHELLS DISPERSE
TEUTON COLUMN
BriliMi in Heavy Action on
Ypivs Front Win Back
Much Lost Ground.
tpecM Coble Dctpatch to Tns StS.
Iikpun. March 3. In a resumption of
til fighting about Douaumont, north of
Verdun, last night, the Germans mic
teeded Hi reaching tho village of Douau
mont. which He to the north of tho
fort, where several hundred Hronden
b-ir,- troops have been surrounded tor
xr.e das.
"We cleared the village, of Douaumont
of the enemy." tho German ofnclal state
mrir. says. "Jnd pushed our line to the
nest iind south of tho village. a veil
u of the armored fort, to more favor
able positions."
The communique Issued this afternoon
by the French War Otlloo admits that
the ('terrains were successful In pene
trating the village after suffering heavy
louts. It ays that tho lighting Is con
tinuing with ferocity and adds:
"A lively counter attack launched by
as. enabled us to regain ground on the
tenvdl-itc outskirts of the village."
Germans Renalse at Va.
Neither tho Oerman nor the French
titeniejit mentions the demolished rort.
er whether tho Brandenburgers have
rn rl!eved or not.
To th euwt of Douaumont the Oer
man attacked the village of Vatix. which
!i- to tho north of tho permanent Held
wor!, of Vaux. This abtaok, made at
..bout the Mine time aa tho lUtaok on
tl Milage of Douaumont, comprised
xmjuIis from the north atid northeast.
Tie Germans cached the French wire
cr.tankienifnts, but werlhen forced back
tr -"ie. itre curtain of the French a
liibry and machine gun action, leaving
a number of dead.
Th , whole region to the north of
t'-il'in, on Iwitli sides of the Meuse and
in Woevre, has been subjected to
mvv ani'lery fire by both eldes In the
I if t-v my-fnur hours. The French
( on- "r.iti'il their tire on a number of
'"man points of assembly and die
t r.-rd i column on the march near
liMiimmn. to the north of Douaumont,
''on'lrt'rabie activity Is also reported
fri other points of the front. Tn upper
A far east of Seppoi-s the French aa-
l xumM th offensive and took several
trench elfments on the right bank of
IV Grand Largue. The Germans or
nn'ifd a counter attack, but failed to
rtsvln the Inst ground.
Ilrsvj- Planting; lit Dooanniaat.
The French night communique follows:
In Belgium we bombarded enemy
esmps In the region of Latngemarck.
North of the Alsne a strong patrol
hich attacked our advanced pobt
s repulsed with losses.
Our artillery executed u dectructlve
fr on the German works to the east
ol N'uville, south of Herry-au-Bac.
northwest of Bhelms.
In 'tie Argonne our artillery was
fry active and bombarded the enemy
"n at l .a Flllo Morte and In the
II' y de Cheppy, We exploded success
fully a camoutlet at St. Hubert.
In thf nglon to the north of Verdun
the lighting th very lively near the
hare nt Douaumont, We hold a part
ef a hiKh elevation on the northern
nope of which Ih that village. A
lively counter attack launched by
w enabled iih to regain ground
I" 'he Immediate outsklrta of the
vt.lage The bombardmeut continues
fry oleiitly to the west and to
tlif hum nf thr Meune bh well us In
the sv.,'ri'. our artillery executed
t einentrn; tire on enemy points of as
fnitjly. notably near Beaumont, where
io;uiim on the march wuh dlepersed.
In I'pptr Alsnce we executed an
"irk lo th east nf Seppuls and took
'ifral elrin-nts of German trenches
. "n the rlKht bank of the Grande
Largtie An enemy counter attack
falMl to illnlodgo us from the ground
"M,
Aitjutntit Navarre brought down
yM-ri) i in the region of Douaumont
h kvIi German aeroplane, a machine
"' the AlhntrnHH type, which fell Id.
f"ir i nrv. The occupants, wounded,
r 'j"n prlf-nnerr.
( In I ii Mnetrry nf Doaanmont.
1 .ie German offleliil statement follows
loiuheaM of Ypren, on the canal, the
H-ituh hroke Into the rjosltlona taken
v 'roin them on February H and even
) W'tiatei) iiver a small front Into what
'ere iireiiously our forward trenches.
Tl.ey ere Immediately driven out of
'lie"', hut still occupy somu parts of
i n.iMion.'
Niuth of the canal at La Basseo
'Ml.v flKhtlng developed at close
'luarteiK before our front In conjunc'
lion with enemy mine explosions.
In Champagne the activity ut the
enirny's artllleiy Increased In places
un'il it hei'amo very heavy.
In ll'ilante Wood, northeast of 1
Cli.il.iili, in the Argonne, u tentative
ftiud; by tho' French was repulsed
...-, . ,
v 1 On the heights east of the Heuse
i' iter heavy art ery preparations wo
'and the village of Douaumont of
t I'liemy and pushed out our line to
Special Cable Detpatth to Tits Sen. '
I.ondon, March 4 ( Saturday ) . Tlie.
Pnrls correspondent of tho Dally Mall,
telegraphing Friday evening, nays:
"Tho battle of Verdun has been re
sumed and fighting its tierce ns any
yet seen Is proceeding all along the
line.
"After the German reptiNe on Mon
day at Douaumont village and tho
Douaumont redoubt the enemy sui
pended Infantry attack for sixty hours
and took advantage of the Interval to
rest his troops and to bring several
fresh divisions from llclgluni, to re
plenish his inunltlona and also to re
move the thousands of ileail which
Mrewed the slopes of the Tulou crest,
I'epper Hill (the Cote du Polvre) mid
the northern limit of the Douauniont
plateau. Most of thn dead were parked
Into empty munition tralni .anil sent
to Germany to lw cremated.
"New German positions on the lower j
siodvb oi laiou inn, i'epper tun nun
the, Vauche plateau had to be organ
ised defensively, whtlo trenchei with
communicating. Maps had to be cut. As
the ground was mainly quarry stone
the work was slow and difficult. Heavy
guns were brought up along spvclally
constructed timber roads.
the French barbed vUte, hut so tierce was
the hall from machine guns and rides
that the giey clad legions simply niulteJ
away.
Their ofHrers rallied them again aad
again, hut II was an Impossible task and
when at last the) rame no more It was
hecante there were no more to come. J
"Thy third attack wan made about 3 .
o'clock. It was much more violent than I
those which preceded It and hinted muru
than an hour. The Germans came on In
serried ranks, hurling themselves regard
less of ol against the crests held by
the French. At last the weight of num
bers told and at two points the defend
ers" lint; wavered, Their hesitation waa
only momentary, however, and a vlg
BONA FIDE KXPOKTS
ASSURED OF SAFETY
Pptcial Cable )wrrA la Tnr. StN.
Lonpok, March 3. Ixird llobcrt Cecil.
Mlnliter of Blockade, told the corre
spondent of The SttN to-day that the
Government had adopted tho suggestion
of Consul-General Hklnner In the for
mulation of a plan whereby American
HE DECLARES THAT
i Frnnrco Ieon de la Barra, former
! tniivlsloiial President of Mexico and
Secret Orders Different
Instructions Taken From the Captured English Steamer1
Woodfield Shows Merchantmen Were Ordered to
Attack, Teutonic Embassy Intimates.
GERARD SAYS APPENDICES WERE SENT FEB. 1C
Gore's New Mosul lit inn.
More Warlike Tliiin .n.,
Is Tabled.
Washinotov, March 3. Secretary of could not only rely on the existence of
ho i i ,.j.u.i n .iv hv i orders to merchantmen to resist capture.
State l.anslng watt adUscd to-da b ()n o(hr )f (hou,d
Ambassador Gerard, at Berlin, that the ,hon that the Indications now are that
nn.nHli. tn ,Um nanna n uiitin:Lrlnii IIHll.,!, m.rh!i nl mti nrn liluter orders i
I II K (. H Alftifj IS FALSI'i 1 declaration were sent by him from Ber- o seek out submarines una atiatK litem,
lln on February 16 In one of the "-,,,., (itroicd, the United States
bassy mall iiouches via Ixndon. I would ho very likely to take 'the view
Thoss iirnnrtip. rnntulu the German that hui h merchantmen are. In fact, en-
copies of the British Adm.ra.ty or.lers "", .5!" 11 T
Ambassador to the I'nlted States, has W wnnii tile Male lieparttneiii is wan- MriKn,m. And In such a case It Is
come to this country to organize another lug before dually deciding on the course thought not unlikely mat me unneii
texolutlon in Mexico to depose Car-1 which this Government will take with States would warn Americans off Mich (
respect to the new German sut.mailn. ,.. ,... t,:mhi!sv received this,
PARTY UiriEFS THEN
ATTACK EXECUTIVE
shippers may be assured that bona tide
orotM .'ouiiU'r attack, pushed with steel. I uhlpnH'iits to neutral countries will safely
pass the blockade. The exact machinery
has not yet been decided upon, and It
will lw left to the British embassy at
drove the Germans heller skelter Into the
Chaiubrettes and lluudromont ravines
"Smarting under the. repeated checks,
the Uerin.uis resumed u shattering nrtll
campaign against armed enemy mer- radiogram to-day from the scml-ofllclal
cnantmen. in seexiug to justtty ner m'tv Tr.uis- iiean News Service at ittrnn
campaign Germany has laid stress on J
theso British orders, claiming that they
show that the British nwrchalitiiiin.
lery lire, ploughing the ground In all. ,U'""'-D
directions and reducing the rocks to . ' .. . . , ,
powder with thousands of monster shells. ." !a;, as the' "Skinner
l-onrlh Advance Hade. i scheme," expressing the sincere thanks
of his Government to Mr. Skinner for
"Dusk had fallen when on the order evolving methods which, w hen they are
of the f tvm n Prime the fourth advance, j,, working order, lrd Cecil Is conrldeiit. i
Battle la llesuntrrt.
"Enemy Infantry attacks on the Meuse
heights, the key position of the whole
battle, were resumed on Thursday nfttr
twelve hours artillery preparation. Then
are three Important military positions on
the Douaumont plateau, namely the vil
lage, the redoubt and the fort. The
village, comprising fifty houses, lies a
the Intersection of three roads. It con
sists of a street with houses on both
sides, parallel to the lino of the German
attack from Die Chauffeur wood.
"Outside the village and on the snme
road stands the redoubt, built to- com
was made against the iMtterod plateau
of Douaumont. The troops who had
been rtghtlng all day had been with
drawn and It was fresh Prussian bri
gades which now went Into action. They
almost met the same fate as their com-
I rudes. but finally succeeded In gaining
li loninoin on ino exireme eage i ne
plateau, whenco they pushed forward
into houses on the north side of the
village.
"According to latest Information the
Germans hold one side of the street, the
Frenchmen the other. The fight Is still
proceeding wlh bloody vehemence, first
the French, then thu Germans gaining
a few 5 anls advantage.
"The past two days have seen only
desultory lighting In the Woevre plain
east of Verdun, and the German Infantry
also tried to push forward In the direc
tion of the much bombarded positions
on thn Dead Man Hill (L Mori
111 relieve the Irritation of American
shippers denting In exports genuinely
destined for neutrals.
He said that Consul-General Skinner
had pointed nut that the British shipper
muld obtain Information lieforehand as
to whether bis shipment would be al
lowed to pass or not, while the Ameri
can shipper lacked this advantage.
Therefore the American shipper fre
quently entered upon costly financial ar
rangements only to have his shipments
nini.i, according to advices sent last
night to Camilla's Ambassador Des
ignate, Kllseo Arredondo, at Washing
ton by Dr. Alfredo Caturrgll. Mexican
I aithio1. It nornl lipr..
.... .. , ,, . . ...t....n 1 urmeu osieusiiuy ior ueienre, are. a-
"I hae officially Informed Ambassa-, (uitv un(Jcr mHlruct,011 to Ctlrry oll .,
lor Designate Arredondo that I havo j offensive campaign against German and j
siiiricleiit evidence to prove that Fran-1 Austrian submarines.
i i i i it ... i...- th 't Is expected that thv copies rent b '
els.'.. l..o de la Barra has corno to the , Am(j n;r(B H(nl)
United States to talto all active part In ,i. ,lext fcw ,)ay(, lim ,rob.ihly on the
stirring up another revolution to over- llrst mall steamer reaching New York
throw Cirr.mra" said Dr. Caturefll Knglan.l. J'endlng their arrival
tnro i.irr.inxa, s.im ur v,.urc nlc r.-iMrtment refuses to eoinnieiit on
last night, "and an effort will be made , hc tl.xt of thr. rKinal Admiralty orders
to havu the I'nlted States Government I us given out in Umdon yeslerdaj.
l,t, u u ilnne with Gcll. r mm "iiai is anunn uie
President Said to Have Hu
miliated Congress by
Oerman 3Iethods.
Iluerta."
' j tnr tit's attitude on the question of mer
chantmen's rights In defensive
First Mep hr Illas.
tclloii It
Is believed that, unless the German
iles art! different, the I ulted Mates
' I eon
Dr. Otturegll charge also that De U proUibly will hold tli.a trio A.iunr;. i
. . , . , 'orders were not stifficli nt to Jtistlf ,
Barra s Is only one part In a big ion- rrm!, , rtlHCa,lMB ,tie rules of lli-
splracy of Mexicans or lornicr promi
Hence, nnd that the Hint step tn It was
mana several ravines wincn nin minus. Homme), the Goose Hill (Cote de
to tne root or tne aavanceu DasiionH oi yite) linj ,hc west bank of the Meuse.
"The fight In the plain was of minor
the fort. Three or four hundred yards
distant Is the fort round which the
fighting raged furously last week,
perched ninety feet above the village.
"The whole of this front Is very
strongly held by the French. The north
ern slopes of the Douaumont plateau are
swept by tho lire of Frcncli batteries
massed on the plateau Itself and on the
heights of Fleury, Souvllle and Belle
ville behind so that German Infantry de
bouching from the woods and ravines Is
exposed to a murderous tire,
"On Wednesday evening, the heavy
funs having plajed their part, the Ger
man hordes began to deploy from I.es
Ormmbri'lteH farm and the. Vauclie wood,
eonverglng upon the Douaumont plateau
In the centie. Another column whs di
rected against the plateau from the right
under shelter of tho Haudoumout wood.
At tho same time, on the extreme left, a
German division advanced alotti the line
of the little brook of Vaux against the
village of the same name.
"This latter attack, although carrl.il
out with vigor, utterly failed and thji
Germans were driven back Into the plain
with heavy losses. The French artillery
ttr was so fierce that evening that the
Germans wero unable to push the attack
home at any point on the Douauniont
plateau. They profited by the night,
however, to bring rruissed reserves well
to tho front and Thursday nmrnlng be
Kan a formidable assault on Douaumont,
which now, 4 P. M. Friday, Is proceed
ing; furiously.
"During tho morning and afternoon
three desperate onslaughts were made
Importance. The attacks on the west i the Government might obtain reliable
, teniatlonal I w.
Copies .May Hitler.
coun. me mirasnip uiu woe m....r.. Oaxaea which Is' That the German copies .ne iiKejy lo
imong small shippers was evident and Gen. l-ellx Dins Into Uaxaia. win " , ,,rovc (1rTert.tlt u, .tiongly Intimated In
Mr. Skinner's criticism, Ird Bobcrt m, In revolt against Uirraiiia. Diaz. , ,;erllian embassy quarters. The cm
Cecil said, was eminently Just. I , )a narrft ,d tho others have Joined ' iMssy has received from Berlin the text
Relief hy Shippers. j forces for n united effort to depoea Car- of Admiralty orders taken from the
. , , ... ,, ,.. British steamer Woodlleld when that ve-
Asked If the Information to be given1 rama. Dr. taturegll sajs. . . destroyed. It Is claimed thai
by shippers would constitute a guar-1 ,;,,, j0 j Barra, the Consul charges, I nlrse instructions at least are different
has been concerned In every anti-Car-1 from those published istenluy by tlx
rama plot of the last two jeare anu ( Hritlsh Government
has associAien wun nun rrcmrnu ".m-
stopped and perhaps sent to the prlie thf, ,.lltranc, ony H few days ago of
antee that the shipment Involved would
be allowed to pass the blocka.le, the
Minister of Blockade said :
"I do no.t desire tn go as far as lo
say that, because after h ship has sailed
Itetiter tries to discredit German re
port about Instructions given to Brit
ish armed merchantmen by asserting
that they were Instructed never to
attack submarines or other men of
war except for defence. Compaie
with I his assertion text of "Instruc
tloii riKurdlng submarines applicable
to vessels carrying a defensive arma
ment" a found on boanl British
steamer Woodtleld. Instructions read
literally as follows:
"Defensively armed vessels should
follow generally the Instructions for
ordinary merchant ships.
"In submarine water, guns should
be kept In Instant readlne-is.
"If a submarine Is obviously pursu
inc i ship by il.i.v and It Is evident to
th- matei- I na I she has hostile Inten
tions, the ship pursued should open
tire In self-defence, notwithstanding
the submarine may not have com
mitted ,i definite hostile act, sucli as
ilrlng a gun or torpedo,
"In view of the great dlfllculty 111
distinguishing a friend from mi enemy
at night, lire should not be ordered
after dark unless it is absolutely cer
O'GOItMAN CAST VOTE
AGAINST RESOLUTION
! Bitter Debate in Both
Houses on Foreign Af
fairs Ut Go On.
Wahiiinotos-, March f!. President,
Wilson scored u victory to-day over
tli opposition In Congress that has
asserted a right to dictate the course
of the Government In its relations
with the belligerent Powers of Mtirope.
By an overwhelming vote, the Sen
ate gave, notice to the world that It '.
tain that the vessel tired at Is hostile, (the scne of that body thai Coiiricsa
'Before opening tire, the British col- I h uM not nlcrferc with the U -cu-
ors should be hoisted. ,
ll t. ,.wntlal that tire should not tlvo in tho conduct of International
le opmed under neutral colors. I .falrs. Following the n.-tion of Ow
r-'enute, tho House Foreign Affairs
"Tran'oceati, Berlin tSayvlllel."
It was denied at the Department to-
Tl, nir f:i.t tti.it a merchant vei,s.' 1 day that any of the Untente Powers had c.mmlttee ordered a report on the M
Ipoh, the Foreign Minister of Iluerta a ta uder orders to fire on :iu appio.i. Ii- seived notice on the United .States that , . resoiutiou warning Ameri
Cabinet, who Is now In Havana; Dr. g hostile submarine for the iniroe of a warning to Americans to keep oft ."
Aureilaiio I'rrulla, former Minister of defending Itself against capture l not armed Driers would be regarded by these cans ugatnst travel on tho armod snip:
bank, which were an repulsed, nan for ( evidence that the shipment actually was ,llt. interior In the same Cabinet; u-, sutllclent in the opinion of iinxi of the Povver as "an unfriendly act." r itii..r,, ..i.h 1 ecotiiinciid mon
tbelr objective the suppression or the , Intended for Germany. Therefore we m.j onlero and others. International law experts, of the Depart- Secretary l.aning was to-day advise.1 "
French enfilading fire from the hill. The must retain the right to stop such ship- c.il. ro. lie alleges, was In VA Paso ' teIU to justify u submarine tu sum- that the reply received from one of tho that the tnea-ture ne laid on tho lame,
trooim so far Identified before the trench ments. But It may lie taken an trus ror two weeks recently and may yet be lnarlly circling such a vessel to the hot- Ihili-nte Powers last week to the pro- . rtmetulment vvuh ItwcorporntcO
position-, on the Meuse heights are the If we say that a certain shipment will Ihor,. c conferred with Felix Dial tum ,ef,ire the merchantman begins to isials of the Fnlteil States for a modus
Brandenburgers. Pomeranians and Han- be permitted to proceed that It will before the latter went Into Mexico. resist. Nor. the view i llkc'.y to 1 vlvemll catling for the disarmament of In the McLemoro resolution iiuiii'iii-
overlans. be unless there Is evidence of trlrkery (j,.n. de la Barm arrived In New ' taken, dott the issuancu of such orders all men haiitnien wan not to be taken tailing the President to take tm hiups
The first attack last week was led by In the transaction. I am confident York only a week ago from Paris, where justify German submarines In .itta. king as the final reply and that the Kntente (n hjH negotiations with Gcrmuli mat
u,,vv inrii, ii ia uoi uenavru uihi . max tne sriiemr win le-neut uuoeri ne hail been living ior some unie. them without warning.
any oi mesu corps is now in action, trauers and tnai n win noi neip irirx-
Three-fifths of them are casualties, and sters.
the remainder are too badly hroken to I "The plan. It must he understood, Is
serve In a second onslaught," not an arrangement between the Brit
ish and American Governments, but be.
SAYS FOE STOLE CREDIT,
Pnmerunlun And Hradelihuri? rcul
ments. On the first two occasions the ' concludes, "is or extraordinarily
assailants with great bravery reached value to us."
White Star Liner Will Stop nt
Gibroftar to Havo Guns
Mounted.
Herman Paper Denies French
mantled Caplnrrd Fort.
Special Cable Pejpateh tu Tim Si s. i
Amstkkdam, via London, March 3.
The h'runkurtrr Zeitur.y of March 2
ridicules the French and Ungllsh asser.
lions that the Douaumont fort had been
dismantled. It says:
"The heroic deed of the Rrandenhurg
ers will not be obliterated hy these lies.
The value the French attached to the
fort Is shown by the tremendous efforts
they have made tu recapture It."
The Frankfort paper Insists that
Douaumont was a thoroughly modem,
armored fortress and that heavy guns
In armored turrets were In full activity
during thn Gemuui oittack, "though
It Is true," It adds, "that some guns
mounted on concrete had been trans
ferred to adjacent batten positions."
me capiuru or me rort, tne paper
great
tween the British Government and
American traders. Moreover, It Is In
no sense obligatory. Those who wieh
1Mb-, to continue the old method, running
I their chalices, are at liberty to do so
the Hotel Astor last night he made ai Unjy during the period of actual re- nugle otnmunlc.itlon gtvlns their views,
blanket denial of all Dr. CaturcgU's . aiatunce, that Is, while shots are ls-lng The preliminary reply has never been
charges. exchanged. It Is said, dors a iinrcham- k'mii out. but Is understood to huve
man loso its immunity from summary come troni uaiy anu to nave oeeu a rr-
Gen. de la Harra'e Denial. .destruction with all on board. Thus, It Je. .Ion
Is pointed out, Germany would have to Count von Bernstorff left Washington
"lir Caturegll's charges are n great k in-tiHcation In the clrciimst..iii-ct- m this morning for a week end In New
surprise to me, he said, and I think , UId f ,s v,.w ,0j,h ,,. York,
tiielr origin Is entirely iiolltlcal, I
Power instp.m would join togatner in a ...,,, ,, llklv , ..i.iiibo tin- cmintrj
Into war without tlrst siibniilt.tig ji'
tin- facts to Ciingrts".
know nothing of any revolutionary acts rr-
wii.n ukcil whsther imv ehamres In bv atulsidv: certainly I have committed
the contraband list are Impending the none myself. I came to the I ulted I
Minister answered: Mutes on an entirely private matter, j
"The only thing about this that I So far as could be ascertained here I
can say at present Is that we are ron- last night no instruction had been given
slderlng the contraband list to ree if it t tne i irpaninrm ui juonvr .u nc,.
Is adequate."
3,300 SOLDIERS LOST
WHEN PROVENCE SANK
GANOPIC TO BE ARMED;
3 AMERICANS ABOARD
The White Star liner Canoplc, which
sailed yesterday afternoon for the Medi
terranean, stopping on the way at the
A xores and Gibraltar, carries four first
cabin passengers. Including three Amer
icans, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bellows or
30 rierrepont street, Brooklyn, nnd W.
W. Nichols. The Canoplc also carries
ten second cabin and fifty-seven steer
age passengers, nearly all bound for
Italian ports, and 11,000 tons or cargo,
mostly war material.
a. isiiirninu-. a iiriiinu nun. ion v.
rdc will take on and mount guns ior
. ,n,u. to Nanles and Genoa to be
i in- .iriirn In case she Is attacked
by -ubmarlnes. .'apt. JjmjJ
could not say worn .- ..... - -u.r.
nursued by a submarine;
much depended on where and how he
might see the undersea craft. It Is
nilHIi. . . ... . ,mnm.
surmised thai iih' n"o" -
nsnled by naval gunners.
panieii wj n Mod terra
nf the White Htar service
neau i"i". - ,.,.. ,,,, I
will be mtllppeo wun , "'"'
for their trips inrous'.
nean.
CAUF0ENIA TO SAIL UNARMED.
. -f-. . ,. . i, tlr.
Hat Taken ir -
partnre Hostponrd a Day.
A report that the Anchor liner Cali
fornia had been requisitioned by the
iunt , , rfwrmrt una
S2t she would not sail this afternoon
La scheduled was denied yesterday by
Se local office of the line. Her s. I1ln
has been po"'!'0"4'' untl1 noon .lo'mor
row Hhe carries a full general cargo.
Including little war material, and has
40 sa "on. 100 second cabin and 100
steerage passengers, chiefly Britons
bound for Liverpool. A few of her pas
Hengers are going to Glasgow.
AtrnVNTA KPKrtAIlrM p. M. DULY.
ASVa "nd Ailgusts, Vl HOUTIIKKN KA1I
WAV Drawing and stateroom sleeping cars.
swfrrvm::. isrss. ssia
JURY ACQUITS TWO
IN HASLETT CASE
Ex-Senntor Gardner and Nurse
Decker Cleared of Con-spiraey.
Kx-Stnte Penator Frank J. Gardner
and George H. Decker, a nurse, were
acquitted at 1 o'clock this morning by
a Jury before County Judge May In
Brooklyn of the charge of conspiring
to obtain Improper Influence over Sam
uel B. IBudett, a Brooklyn recluse, and
get their bauds on his 7.r.n,onn fortune,
The same Grand Jury which Indicted
tho two men for conspiracy Indicted
them also for attempted grand larceny,
hut It Is likely this Indictment will now
he. dismissed. Clarke U Jordan, coun
-el for tho two acquitted men, moved
to dismiss It after the verdict, and the
District Attorney said he would eon
shier It.
In February. 1S08, Haslrtt was found
living In squalor and 111 health in one
room nt 13H Hemsen street. lecker w-as
called In as k nurse, and he In turn
called In Gardner as attorney for the
old man. It was alleged at the trial
that Gardner persuaded Haslett to draw
a will In his ravor, miiKing mm rcio-
uary legatee of th large estate.
On February IT. 1914. detectives
raided the house, forcing an entrance on
the complaint of John B. Iord and
ttobert Vlvaud, who said Gardner and
Decker were Influencing Haslett, The
defendants claimed that the entire ac
tion wm a ronplracy against them.
NEGRO KILLED AFTER ESCAPE.
Three
Blockade Ansiter nou.
He added that the answer to the
American note on the blockade was
practically ready and that Its presenta
tion to the Washington Government
would be a matter of only a few days
"I am convinced," lie said, "that the
economic pressure which Knglnnd Is ex-
IT11I1K oil iiciiiwiij .- nmiiiii ,i in - . ,.W. ).,!
,..in,i er-t. The full of the mark Is Texas, while awaiting trial.
. la Itarra. though It was assuineo
tli.it it lie were arrested It would be.
principally to hold him for extradition
''Vlu.rla'was arrested June 1!7. 1915. at r,n00 Oll tllP TrillseP, Fl'elK'Il
F.l P.io while presumably about to cross .
the bonier Into Mexico and later Indicted
for engaging In a conspiracy within the
United States against the drrunsa Gov- j
eminent. He died January 13. partly
In-caiise of his confinement ai i-on miss.
The llouso will vote on the M' I. -
nioro resolution to-inoriiiw, and I ie
Administration Is . ontldent that I.
bo t ibled by a big in.ijorlt.v.
I The two hoii"t-s liiivlnu' tliu - is
I tnlned tlin President III his rlg.n i(J
I handle foreign allalr- without inter
ference by the-lavvni lit iLtdepartnviit.
I nn ..on , iv t h it Air
.Ulllltlll ,' llllllll
INDICTED IN PENNA. rzz
' of possible rcstl.illlt b Cullgl c-s.
100 BREWING COS.
Xow Say Previous Fiir
ure, 1.B0O.
the best barometer. Ilvidence Is clear
that the Germans are beginning to find
the war less desirable than they Im
agined at the beginning of the conflict."
With reference to Ills duties in his
new office. Lord Itobert Cecil said that
these were simply to coordinate what
hitherto had been uncoordinated work.
He expressed the hope that one result
would be less troubla and Irritation
among neutrals regarding the ifTectlve
ness of the blockade. The blockade, he
said, was stopping a fair amount of
goods destined for the enemy, but that
As Dr i aturegll has requested Am
bassador Arredondo lo lay all the evi
dence that he has forwarded before tho
State Department It Is expected that ac
tion will follow Immediately, If the
charges seem to be sustained.
Dr. Caturegll would not give In detail
what was t,u nature of the evidence he
had accumulated, but If Is undeistood
in.it he Is In touch with Carranxlsta.
Special Calile.neipaM In Tnr Siv
Paws. March S. The French Ministry'
of Marine announced to-day that there
were nearly 4.000 men on Nunl the
French auxiliary cruiser I.a Provence
when she was sunk In the Medlter.aneiin
on February .ti
f'liarired With Conspiraey to
Corrupt Federal Elections
In 1912.
March 3. The United
A Wilson Victors, bill
opinions vary :i ! :hc extent of tf.e
Administration vli torv in th- r-'-mitc
it H agreed that as the vote was l.iKeii
It did not nlfor.l oppot tiin'ty fo ex
pression nf sentiment on the merits or
the nmstlon as to whether Americans
should !" warned nut tn Ir.ivi! on
nrmt d ships.
On tin- other Hand .xuitiiiiif i.uiou
Pirrmi'ti'i.
States Itrewers Association, with office
in New York, and 100 brewinr.com- ,,,,.1,.,. iuui th.it the S. int. ha lveu
panic, all of Pennsylvania, wen.1 In- (mprclvc evidence that It has no
dieted late to-day by the t'nited Stales sympathy with tin men in C"ongrrs.
Grand Jury, which has been Investlgat- who would Interfere with the 1'fis1-
lent 111 his lii-gntl.illoii wun lon-isn
ing contributions by tho liquor Interests j
.iir.nts it 1-: Pax and nan Antonio,
where other members of th Junta are the Third Battalion, the second company
s.ild to be. I 0f the First Battalion, the Second Ma-
JtmL n Vre' DlaT'reL n,! I chine G,B, Com,ny and one extra com-
this amount was decreasing, as far . . ,P1,Mi,i,.i prilrio Dlas annoluted imnv.
fewer attempts were being made lo run llm foreign Minister. Previous to that ! Tnr oftl-lal reiwrt stiys:
the blocKiuie man lormenj. . had been the Mexlc.in envoy to sev- , ..,,... ru..r Pm.
r. . I .. .n Vi. . .iwimii.i.ii. hlun " . .. ... . . .1 . . .. , , n II u ridiv,, ..i,...... - .
IXevrriliiR " '"- - eral Mllllll .MUCnC.IU reimunce. Ilf wnn i
On board the Provence were the tdaff t- p.illtlcal campnlgli funds.
of the Third Colonial Infantry Itegltnent, The indictments charge principally con- f
Powers.
The vote in tin-
Senate to-diy
ji
stilr,u-- h.v the brewing companies In the
unlawful expenditure nf money In Federal
eleetloiiK. No Individuals lire mentioned In
the Indictments. A million and a half
dollars in lilies can be collected if eon
v'ctlons are obtained,
An Itidl't'.ment wan returned acatliet
tho bitter contmviT-y ar.'Us. d '
tween the Pri'sidi nt .m.I iippotn'
of his foreign policy In CniKri-- as
taken on the Gor i e.-olutl.m us
aiiifinled by Seiiatnr Gore hnii'-cir.
In Its original form the Gin re-o
lutlon simply w.irnc.1 Am. rn .m-
l... ltil,...l U.ulu- ll-uw.r, luui lul n,i i i. . ........1 .... (li.. .,.,,,...( 1, i.. ,if
. .. . ,i .- ..I'- ii..-,, . ,......, .-.i,isi II.IIII Oll mi
expressed the sincere nope tnai tins lr,tvtMs.,,,..i President of Mexico after vence. engaged m ir.uispci u.,, wt but not the Pennsylvania Brewers As-1 7",,," r.,..,8
would prove satisfactory and workable. mx)l aHCated and extended favor to salonlca. was sunk In the Mediterranean Hnrlltn. both of which wero under III- ,. , ;.iB.i f,.m mc res. " uti
"We have hail more experience now. Huerta. on Kebruary 2. Two hundred and , v.stigatlon, because tho tlrst Is a cor- ' '. . . ,k
he said. "Besides, we know more about ,. he ;4rrved here last Thursday " ' " ,..,. hfp., U-nlly.u poratlon and the latter is no-.. , "' f""' ,1" l'l'""-"l" 1 K"
partlcular consignors and consignees." from ,.rN i,0.lril the Nleuw Amster- nlnetysix sun Ivors havo been bioti n i .,,,, Inn of nil firmed m-Muntma I,-
ti,. .nrr.nnnrirnt (if Till! MltN 1111- j... ..111, liU wlfn flun. da la ILirra said In Malta, and about four llUllilred lo I '.. ,, , ,.. ,, 1 ...rnliu- lie :t Gennall Mlblllll lie
derstands that the new scheme will not t, did not believe Carrania's Govern-
supersede the Netherlands overseas nicut could succeed because it did not
Trust arrangement with Holland, but I voice the sentiments of the people of
will apply to other neutral countries. Mexico,
1,000 SWEAR NOT TO FIGHT.
Barricade London Church, bat
Crowd Stones Wisdom.
Sptciat Cable Df patch foTiir. Six,
I-onpoN, March 3. More than n thou
vounc men belonging to I he so-
called "No Conscription Fellowship met -ohing Gen. ih l.t Barra in
lorth IOtidon rnurrn to-uay. I ne ju.lonary nvivemenl ai
form any war service aim to accept -my
penaltleH Incurred by their action.
A crowd outside stoned the windows of
the church while the meeting was In
progress,
VERDUN HAY DECIDE RUMANIA.
COMPLAINT NOT FILED.
Pol 1 1 lent Offence Snt Kt radltablr,
a' the Offlptals.
tVHiiiM)To.v, .Maich 3. Official here
said to-night that so far no complaint
had been made lo the Cnlted States in-
trvo-
in a North Iondnji rnurrn to-uiiy. me' lu.lonary nxivement against the Car-
doors of the church were then barrl- rarua u-overnment in Mexico. Unofhclal
coded and sentinels posted. The oung reports leached Washington to the ef-
men swore enthusiastically not to per- f,ct that tne Mexican Consul-General in
.New vora noil ropwarneo, ex'iueuee 10
Kllzo Arrendonrto, the Mexican Ambas
sador. Involving Gen. de la Bana tn a
cun-'lilracy with Felix Diaz to ovei
llirow Carrsnza.
It vmis further stated t!liat Henor Arre
dondo would ask for the extradition of
Gen. de In Barra. It was pointed out
hei n I hat If f len. de la Barra were
Only Great German Vletor l.lkrlr Bllte of .v olutloutiry activities Iia could
4 Keep Her From Allies. not be extradited. .He could be pun-
, .... . , , Mn-. hv lh I'nlted Slates for violating
,W.rtaffaMM.e..Tiir!lix tllH Uws v( neutrality, but he could not
DnNobsf. March 3. According to ailii. vir:i,llle,l for a nolltlnnt offence.
ngency despatrh from Zurich, the Ger-' ,
man newspapers prim nespaicnes rrom
their correspondents at Bucharest de- VILLA'S CAPTURE NEAR,
daring It to be unquestionable that lln.
mania Intends actively joining tne Allies.'
armed with
centimeters, two
meters and four of forly-sevei
Trio Guards Meet Death,
Are Woanded.
NoRrouK, Va., March J. -After defy
ing a posse, of more than 1,000 men for
two days David Hvana, an escaped negro
prisoner, was killed to-day In his home
ut Ayden. N, O.
The negro, who killed two guards in
making hi escape, opened fire on the
oouui that trapped hi in In his home.
He was traced through several counties
heforo his pursuers touno mm. niooa
hoiindu narlklPHted In the chase. Three
members or the posse nre reported to
havo been Injured by his fire before
Kvana fell with a bullet through the
head.
Melcs, by French and British patrol ves. ,.rH Association and forty-two are mem-, resulting In the loss of Ami lii i "if
sels summoned by wireless. , hers of thn I'nlted States Brewers As-' would be a cause for war Is-twecii the
"No signs of , submarine were noticed ! soclatlon. The companies In the llrst s,!lt0), am, Goniwnv.
.-io sis"" ... ... named group are accused Jointly of con- xi,.io.,iir of Vnrib I) ii.iitu
either before or after. I.a Provence was H,,niry ,.,, lllt0 lt ,M allVKe.l. on1 ' '"' ,or M ',' . ' . :.:.,,,, " Vc ,,,..,7
n -iiMlinil of fourteen ..ntMil.i.r I 131? "imlnnrnllv m-ilftiUi- OUCreil U suu.iiiiui-, i"l
I : ; . V . . r . . ! . . t, ..iv f.m,iii iiit
,,r nriv.Heven in in. unowingiy. rrauuiiienuy ana reiomousiy . cans iu " i-
lilt i" on" "nil iimiii'iis iu ioiuic,ii cnlll-""lll-
,,.,i,,MJ t uhleli PreHldnnllal Mini VI,....
meters." ( Pivsldentliil electors or Bep'esentatlves
, , ,i. ... i .-. . it... 1 1" Congress were to be voied for.
It was originally stated t int then I Thl. M,c,,cnt are based on section
were about I.S00 men on the vessel (if (h(. ,,,,,..,, ,,,., ,.,,,, ,,. yo,
,.i,. he sank and that x,M were saved. , ,i.. ,.,i.., i
The latest report, placing the sunivors hn.tlan 3- 0'f lhe HHIno ,., u,ir'r lht
sections lines not exceeding 15,000 in the vulo of iS to 14.
tlrst and $10,0011 In tho second may be' , mly two Democrats voted s
Itussla Is furnishing Jiorsen to Rumania,
the despatcnes say.
Only a great German victory, they
add, will alter Ilumanla's determination.
HIGH TRIBUTE FOR KITCHENER
Grand Cordon of I.ealon of Honor
Presented.
fipecial Cable Ittipalch to Tar. Si n.
I.ONDON. March 3, At the War OBIcn
this afternoon the French Ambassador
Iteported tn Have. Been Located
.War ('hlhnalina.
Wasiiinuton, March 3. Gen. Villa
has been located by the Carransa forces
near Chihuahua and his capture Is dally
expected, according to telegraphic, ad
vices which reached the Mexican em
bassy to-day. Tho report states that
Villa Is at a point midway between the
towns of Kanta Anna and San Geron-
llllo.
A statement Issued by the Embassy
contains the Information that "Bordaa,
at about 700, makes the probable number
of lost 3,300,
The loss of life In the sinking of the
French auxiliary cruiser Provence wos
the greatest ever known III a steamship
disaster.
The greatest previous marine disaster
wa .the sinking of the White Star liner
TItanU: on April 14. U'l-. with n loss
of 1x&9Ti lives,
Tho loss of life on the l.usitaula wiwn
the Cumirder was torpeuoeu ny n Her
man submarllio und sunk off the Irish
coast on May 7, 1915, was l,S0.
Other marine uisasiers wun largo
losses have been :
French I-lne eteamsnip i.a umirgcgjie,
July 4, 189s, ISO lost.
Tho steamboat uetierai r-ineuiu nurueu
In the tost rtlver, Juno 15, 1!0. N.-irly
I noo lost
Japanese steamship Klekermiru, Se
tviiiber Si, I
Hteanibhlii
II" Inst.
Canadian I'aclllc. Iilne sie.inishlp Cm- thi
prms of Ireland, May UU, l'.'ll, '.if lost.
ti livers:-
ing the danger zones.
Senator .lames of K.Mittni who
vvus the leader of the A.lniinlni-itum
forces to-day, brought the a IT i. to
.1 head by u motion to table tin Lore
unit MrCumber resolutions at' I all
iiiiiendiiuMUs. This was carrlid b a
nt
M...nied in Karl Kitchener the Inslmla the Insurrectionist leader, recently can-
of the Grand Cordon of the legion of i lured, Is being held a prisoner at Cltl.
Honor.
The decoration was conferred on him
by President Polncare.
dad. Chihuahua, awaiting the return nf
Gen. Obregon, who Is enjoying his
honeymoon In Sonora.
ssesr.i, i nrre is niso a provision pro- . Admlnlstr.ition. Tllry weir- S t.
vlillng for the Imprisonment of offlcers arsA''; , r pf New York i.t.d
and dlieciors of the corporations under1 d, r ci.ioiui.iii -.
Senators Keed I p.
iK.th sections. ChumlK?rum or oregon.
Among the brewing companies named At the White House ortU-i iN epi.--..
In tho Indictments are the Pittsburg I isfact'on with the reco.-.l vole In l is
Brewing Company, the IndeiKn.lent I Senate and with the. action la It-n i
Brewing Company and the Fo,t Pitt th- Mmiee Foreign Aft a Irs in mltle
ll.ewlng CVmpanv. all of Plttsbunr. and flb-laW upprarrd rontld. t thai the
the following concerns situated In Phlla- ult would be to f"""""! J"
d'-lphia: I dent's position in his dealing.! "Ith llr-
Amerloan Brewing Company. .1, A P. ""
B.tll7. Hrewing Company. Ixmls Berg 1
doll Brewing Company, Bergner & Kngel The iiicumtances under whlh t?.
Brewing Company, Class A Nai-hod Brew-1 vote on the amended Gnro rcsilution k
ing Coinp my, Consumers Brewing Com-1 taken In the Henate wero dr.imi-c In
pany. Fred Fell Brewing Company, j the extn'me. Senators were lie oi up
Tlieodore I'lnkenaiier Brewing Company, I a high pitch of excitement and t lie
I.1,.1,pim A. oliert Hrewlnir I'omnaiiv. rr.iw.led galleries were toise with ih.
I'lilla.lclphla llrew-lng Company, Premier . expectancy of action possum na is.i
III IMC n'lil
I Slates and
I....- ,
llohert Smith Ale Browing Comiwny. . meeting, the enaic g-'iKii" were.
Ipaeimi and humlnds waited In tlie cor.
slenmahlp Klekermiru, Sep- liilladclphla llrew-ing Company. Premier . expectancy of action poss
1913. 1,000 lost. Brewing Company, Bleger A Gretx Brew-1 Willi Miou cnnseipiencih
i Volturno, October !, 1013, Ing Cnmp.iny, Peter Schenmi & Son, C. lions between the I ullcd
1 Solimldt Sons Brewing Company and Germany. Ismg before i
In
BRITISH CAPTURE AIR RAIDER.
CROWDED STEAMER ASHORE. I
' German Seaplane Brtiirnlng 1'roni
Hnaiiinri Plekeil I'll at Sea.
uiml Cable Detpilc'i In Tiik i c
I.ONPON-, Marcli :i,Tlio Arinilrnliy
annouiuid to-day that a German m.i-
a big plane returning from the raid on ling.
land lart Wednesday war pit Hot up
off the Middle Keii.e Hank
One occupant was drowned and the
f'ltr of Ilalllniorr In trrldrnt
Hampton Bonds.
NosioiiK, Va., March I. The strainer
City of Baltimore of tin. Chesapeake
Steamship company Hue, with
passenger list, Is ashore In Hampton
Bonds.
The steamer plied between Noifolk
and Baltimore.
other vvus taken prisoner
e'.,inr for a ch nice to K.im admission.
Senator Gole siliprised th" Admin i
(ration forces by substituting t . th
warning lesolutlon latiguagA til u "ol-d-riiil
the opposite view and Jou'aO.1
warlike I'm days there had V. u ,11,
.igltnt'ou over lhe pioimHl I'm Am-
cans should be waiin-d .'.gainst i'-ive
nil armed belhgfrei.i ehantmee Ts
f-'cuaie had asMiiiiil.il o . oi n. i i
prnpo- . rtn M
(I,. ,f ,i 'eil'JP ame lie .JO'-.
m itil n wlicheliii - I a cut rel.
i ,,n otictlion lo lhe Senate and ::cA
(Whined en TklrU
I
IV
