"i-J V" Ti--?fW i
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
imtitt
Trcr
VOL.n.-NO. 148
PHILADELPHIA, SATUltDAY, MAltOU 4, 191G.
CortntonT. 1910, i tub Public Liiconi Cohpini,
PBIOB OinU CENT
IRECK OF RAPID TRANSIT
ROUSES MIGHTY PROTEST
IN ALL SECTION;
lingered Citizens From
s Districts uut urr
L" Plan Fight on Revi
sions by Twining
'Chafes, Designeaoy, man
Administration, wu;u -"-
I jnst JiConomiu vvuai ""
Wholly Inadequate Parallel
i LiflC3 Condemned as Useless
I-
tAU-Pifladclpliia Rapid Transit League
,-, Wil Carry Protest Through, Even
P- to Legislature, to Block Now
t dAnmivCommcnt by Leaders in
Kj; Districts Affected by the Shift
t'
"' i-tnlehty wave of protest sweeping
.' every section of tho. city todny was
' wklladelDhia'B answer to tlio emasculated
pwiaaeipmii nubile by Mayor
'M"11 P'S" ".' .--f -,,- prom an
'ftSnomle standpoint the revised plan Is
Mtto leading business organizations In
.... Ilv
A. a substitute for the Taylor compre
ssive system of high-speed subway and
Elevated lines, serving cery section of
, tin cuy, "' nil"""" -- --
t ir denounced as an outrage.
' Hotith Philadelphia, North Philadelphia,
itlhavunk and all other outlying sections
whlen wouia nnvo "iiii .. ............
Son facilities under tho Taylor program
(land united ngalnst the Twining modifi
cations. 1 MEETINGS OF PROTEST.
t Mass-meetings of protest nre nlrendy
. t t.-Ir nvAmf nfnauiirn tr
,fciltig pianncu '"." Ak''. ''.-...". '.
'bear upon councils ana ma muimutiiwiiuin
,leaders to force them to reject the inodl-
-Scatlons and return to me original -luyior
plan.
' The All-riillndelphli. Itnpld Transit
tfSEOf, on orgnnlintlon got together
Qulttly In anticipation of attempt to
"thanie the Tnylor plan, Untied a ntnte
ment tjiat It stood ready to rnrry the fight
for th original plan, to Councils, to the
tpurii, to the State I'ubllo Hervlco Commis
sion and if ncceniury to the State Legis
lature. ... ., ,, ., ...... ....... ........n
'"Tne All-i'nuaueipnia ijku&uv n uib.i
foed primarily In Roxborough, whero the
'residents are ud In arms against the pro-
5-posal to postpone "to somo tlmo In tho
.future" tho construction of tho Itoxbor
'oagh'Manayunk line. Committees have
M
Hftaay oecn nppoimcu. iu iierieui umuum
In evrv ward of tho city which will suffer
Under the changes.
,.. 0Y.Jw'.aw.1'VL ,,. t
i&The outstanding -fallacy of the Twining
.ttiAnees. It Is declared. Is their economic
tunsbundness. Two almost Independent
rSabways are to bo built, both serving
Ivlrtually the name section or, mo cuy.
im.. ..- n l.n ..(!-.. ntrnmlv In .lnao
'connection to the business section of tho
city by numerous surface lines, is to
;J4 brought closer, whllo tho outlying
!rMntlnl nontlnlin nr nffprnd no relief.
yrhs only exception Is tho Frankford ,cle-
nrated, and the contracts on mis were
faarded for tho most part by Director
TaxWr.
Si Tha construction of two virtually naral-
Jel high-speed subways, hcglhning to-
teuier. ending at mo same point ann at
no point much more than half a mllo apart.
' aenounccu ns wanton wiisto ul iiiu
itaipayers' money. With tho abandon
jent of the spurs and continuations to the
ijuburbs, It Is pointed out, tho very causes
which first caused tho parallel lines to bo
Mllfttinil llnvn lififin vrniinvprl
IS? PARALLEL LINES.
IJVnder tho Twining proposal thcro will
uo k iwo-iracK Nuuwuy unuer uroun
.street from Erie avonuo on tho north to
lKHniWI ctraal mi ,1m cmill. n...l nnnlhni.
iinwuftiA anuwiiy iruni iti-uiiu BilucL iwiu
HErle avenue, down Broad street to Hldgo
Vm 9tK etvanfr ln 1tfnl.. ... 4 IPAI
t . w," Plllll III UUIIlUfc OiiVCl, UH l4il
it street to 16th.
Without Increased cot, It Is ilrrlnred.
" 01 tuese lines uunost pnrallel could lie
Contlmifcl on I'mc Nix, Column One
it "
j, THE.TRANSIT SITUATION
fc A full editorial discussion of the
'rap 4 transit situation in Philadelphia,
fas It, has developed through the pres
entation of the Twining plan and the
,'jettlng aside of tho plans offered by
Jformer Director Taylor, will bo printed
m Monday's Issue of tho Evenino
uxtxjzn.
f. THE WEATHER
iST' German phllospher remarks that
PAninjF IS Hurl Kanniiu. It ... J...1.
!,.,. - 77 -7 vwuoo 11 nussrwn ileum,
W.? vF rl6nJs "Sain pleasurable be
VUU5Q It hlntq rt Vla .aa.- ,1 mi...
!ov ii. iioiiittwiiun. ilia
dih ?t "S springtime is also associated
'SJ2 J?9 dwlro for resurrection. Earth,
'2iw frray he"elf In leaf and bloom,
taiitv Prqve Baln our hoPQ ot Immor
SeaJi -1 .ut Bharp ns la th0 llne between
our Aiier and ,lve B"s- lt '8 a 'lty
olun lr .nJBprlns ls B0 "hdrt. it Is
tbSfr'Ovherea8' ln London and Paris
mmKS ! the proportions of a rea.
Th; i. ' "if aesl '""9, of tho year.
I'Our brisf e ''"J'ensatlon, however.
If B.i , " KUla nori 1 ne auration
?J actrtaln well-known fever,
I '
I FORECAST
SfSliuVS aml Sic4; warmer
fWaVi ttrong west winds diminish-
'details see page 5,
T rtTTTT i-Ti
. from SStfffl ' yol Ian robe, dropped
i? WlSr.e1.t'15Ss?..r!turnxo'A. J. MeU..
f&r film J16,0, eontaU.o7aHb7;
yoat S537 5 rlpUi rtward. rhone
fetUr lit N sthliI,acS nd ian hound, wltn
( tn at Henr4. Ph. Jlkt 4o.
jw ouna Ad on l-uge IS
aPP and Birsky,
I Pl!iliSaci'R.'',t, wd,'iimo,"l and sapphire
F F'a ISffi Jil,!" evening llarch 3.
f ton. antlMn8 """f" na ntU-Crl-l
yr?ll rtu.'f'1. '".nHJInum. Lilwral re-
JAMES E. LENNON
Lennon Says Downtown
Will Need Airships
.Tnmcs E. Lennon, president of
Select Council, and a powerful
downtown Varc leader, who reflects
the Varc viewpoint, said:
"I don't think the new plans will
sit well on South Philadelphia's
diaphragm. It will bo necessary
for my constituents to establish an
aeroplane line to reach tho centre
of the city. Extreme North Phila
delphia might also establish such
a line nnd our airships could meet
theirs at William Penn's statue.
Perhaps, by tho time the subway
is constructed as the new plan pro
vides, the extension of tho lino on
South Broad street may be au
thorized. Meanwhile, let us be
thankful that City Hall doesn't fall
down."
'MOVIE' CENSOR BOARD
PEST AND MUTILATOR,
JAYg SWLE1CHEAD
Mastbaum,. Replying to Cen
sure, Declares Pictures Are
Garbled and Made Worse
Than in Original Form
REGULAR SECRET SERVICE
The Pennsylvania Stnte Board of Cen
sors Is characterized ns a "mysterious
secret servlco organization" In an open
lotter made public today by Stanley V.
JIastbaum, managing director of the Stan
ley Theatre, and general manager of the
Stanley Booking Company, which supplies
photoplays to CO or more motion picture
theatres ln tho State.
Mr. JIastbaum Issued the letter ln
reply to a scathing criticism of tho present-day
motion picture mado recently by
,tho Pennsylvania Stnte Hoard of Censors.
Air. Mnstbaum takes exception to tho
allegation of the State, board that tho
avcrago motion picture of todny has little
educational vnlue. Ho declared that this
chnrga was answered "silently by the
thousands of mothers nnd fathers taking
their children to tho theatres dally."
In answer to tho State board's accusa
tion, that many of the pictures shown In
tho "movies" are Immoral and degrading,
Jlr. Mastbnum says: "I have very little
to say In regard to that except that man
ufacturers producing plays of that char
acter will very soon cease to exist.
"Many of the pictures tlint aro passed
with peculiar cutouts, leaving the film In
a mutilated condition, appear to the pub
lic without many incidents explained. The
story Is made considerably, worse by said
elimination."
In reference to the system of Inspec
tion maintained by the board, Mr. Mast
baum said:
"The board now has a number of em
ployes -who float ln and around motion
picture theatres like secret service -men.
They assume tv very Berlous and mysteri
ous manner, flashing either a badge or
card, even If they have nothing to see
you about, Impressing upon you that they
are there watching and perhaps hoping
for some minor Infringement pf the law
that will enable them to report you, so
you can be arrested and fined as heavily
as the law and their personal feeling
permit."
Evening Ledger Circulation
(For Six Months)
Daily Average for Sept., . . 100,608
Daily Average for Oct., . . 102,185
Daily Average for Nov., . . 94,801
Daily Av. for Dec, . 96,785
Daily Av. for Jan., 99,214
Daily Av.for Feb., 104,115
The foregoing figures representee actual net paid circu
lation of this neiospaper, eliminating all returned and free
copies.
Montague Glass'
EDDIE COLLINS IS MAGNATE
Former Mackman Director of Balti
more International League Club
. BALTIMORE, March 4. Eddlo Collin,
second baseman of the Chicago White Sox,
lias become n magnate. Incorporation pa
pers of tho Hnltlmorn Risebnlt Club, filed
at Annnpolls, disclose that Collins Is as
sociated with Jack Dunn In the ouncr
slilp of tho Orioles. Collins nnd Frit
Malsel nre directors of the local club.
Collins was sold tn tho White Sox by
the Athletics Inst year for $50,000.
CRAZED MAN KILLS
ONE, WOUNDS FIVE
WITH NEW RIFLE
Fires Wildly in Washing
ton Avenue - 7". ' ; j
Women Hit by Shots
DISARMED BY POLICEMEN
A crazed man, armed with a rhotgun,
killed one man and seriously wounded five
other persons as he stood on the steps
of a house at S.ll "Washington nvenue to
day and defied tho neighborhood. Tho
man, who gavo his name an Antonio
Prlngo, snld Hint he bought tho gun today
to kill a man who had attacked him tills
morning ns tho result of a feud which
started many years ago ln Nnples, the po
lice say.
Tho victims nre:
SAMUEL OlTNlint.snN. n rartlnlly blind
broom peddler, instantly killed; address un
known. . . - ,
JUtH. KATHBHINI! JACOBS, 1022 Federal
street, shot thrrtieh tho left lirenst.
mrs. MAiiY cnoNovnsn, mt south isth
strnet. liullot wound in left hip. ,
SAMUEL HIUKLDH, n lirakcmnn of tlio Penn
sylvania Itallrond. shot In rluht "" ,
MRS. JUNNIK HCH.MUCKt.UH. 1M7 Toplar
street, fleh wound In rlsht hip.
CHARLES VIRDIN, nn cmplojo of the. Amer
ican Ico Company.
All of thohe Injured were hurried to
the Pennsylvania Hospital, with tho ex
ception of ono womnn. Sho wns ttcated
at a drug Btore.
SHOT IN ALL DIRECTION'S.
Tho place at which tho shooting oc
curred Is conducted as a boarding houso
by Mrs. Mario Tortelll. Her t,on Paul.
12 years old, was nlono In tho house when
Prlngo came downstairs with a new Win
chester shotgun In his hand. He loaded
dcllborately as he muttered to himself,
tho boy said, and then walked to tho door,
First he fired up nnd down tho street
nnd then shot Shields, tho brnkeman, who
wns working near a freight car. There
were several hucksters In tho neighbor
hood and women wcro gathered around
them buying provisions when tho shot
whistled nround them.
The women fled to their homes, but
Mrs. Jacobs and Mrs. Gonovcso who
happened to be In the neighborhood, were
Bhot down.
Tho -flight ot-so many.-i'lctlms falling
arflund him seomsij. to. lncreasa..tihei,j.rapo
bf tho murderer. IIundfctI3"of persons
were attracted by tho shots, and they
were forming to charge upon him. Iteal
Izlng tholr purpose Prlngo then slammed
the front door, nnd dashed through the
houso to the rear.
In League street, a. small thoroughfare
at the rear of tho houso. he saw Gun
helsen, tho blind man, with tho broom
peddler. The latter was about to sell a
broom to a woman nearby when Prlngo
shot him through tho heart. The peddler
foil dead at the woman's feet.
The man with the gun then entered the
house nnd, after threatening tho terror
stricken boy who was along with him,
fell upon his knees.
.Meanwhile word of the tragedy reached
tire police of the 7th and Carpenter streets
station. A squad of 18 men, led by Ser
geant Carflgno, rushed to the scene nnd
Burrounded tho house. Tho police cau-
Contlnued on Tnge Three, Column Two
LA CAMERA ACC0RDA
FIDUCIA A SALANDRA
Una Moziorie Contraria dell'on.
Filippo Turati Respinta con
278 Voti Contro 40
Ierl la Camera del Deputatl ha dato,
con una immensa maggloranzn, uu nuovo
voto dl flducla al Mlnlstero Salandru. II
voto fu provocatci da una mozlone dell'on.
Filippo Turntl, deputato doclallstu, Inteea
ad otteliere dal governo che splegasso la
condotta dl tutta la guerra.
II presldente del Conslglle rlspose che
II momonto non era affatto opportuno per
una simile dlecusslone, ma che ad ognl
rnodo la Camera poteva esser slcura che, al
momento opportuno, II governo non av
rebbe mancato dl farlo quelle comunlca
zdonl cho potevano esser fatto senza com
promettere nulla.
Messa al votl, la mozlone dell'on. Tu
rati, sulla quale Salandrn aveva in certo
modo inesso la qulstlone dl flducla, fit
respinta con 278 votl contrnril e 40 fa
vorevoll. (I.eggere In la paglna le altre e pla'
dettagllate notlzle sulla guerra, In Ital-iano.)
Entertaining Characters, Discuss Presidential Possibilities and General
CANNON DUEL
MARKS ACTION
ABOUT VERDUN
Artillery Clash Is at Close
Range, Berlin and
Paris Announce
LULL IN INFANTRY FRAY
Germans Regain Ground Lost
to British on Ypres
Line
mom.TN'. March 4.
V dent r'i',t, -nt'rv'li.i havo been de
.eto.l li tlio K.vnr 1 agiiilist tup lii'i--inan
position at Dotinumont, northeast of
Verdun. Tho lighting there Is nt close
rnnge.
The German war otneo officially an
nounced today that these assaults wero
"partially repulsed."
Tho Germans captured 1000 more pris
oners north of Verdun.
Attacks by tlio French In the Argonno
failed.
Southeast of Ypres the fighting has
come to n standstill, tho Gcrmnns having
won back the ground they lost to tho
Kngllsh. ;
Tho following Is tho text of the official
report:
"Southeast of Ypres tho fighting has
como to a standstill. Tho positions wo
held before February 14 are once moro
firmly In our hands. A bastion Is In tho
possession of tho enemy.
There Is lively fighting In Champagne.
In tho Argonne nn nttnek by tho enemy
failed.
Tho French lost 1000 moro prisoners In
fighting nt Douaumont. Attacks by tho
French against our positions at Douau
mont were partially repulsed."
"On both sides of tho Meuso Itlver tho
French artillery has Increased Its activ
ity. "The fighting nround Douaumont Is at
close rango and heavy losses aro being
Inflicted upon tho French.
"The booty taken by us slnco February
22 (tlio second day of the battle of Ver
dun) nmounts to 115 guns nnd 161 ma
chine guns.
"Near Obersept. northeast of Pflrt
(upper Alsace) tho enemy nttempted to
recapture a position taken from him on
Fobrunry 13. Tho first attack was par
tially successful ; tho onemy succeeded In
getting Into somo of our trenches. How
ever, he was Immediately ejected and was
prevented by a curtain of flro from re
peating tho attacking on n hroad scalo.
At somo places local attacks developed,
but the enemy suffered heavy losses nnd
wo took 80 prisoners. At tho conclusion
of tho fighting the French wero com
pelled to retreat to tholr former posi
tion." FAWS,March 4,
, Lively artillery duels continued on the
front north of Verdun Inst night, the War
OfTlco reported this afternoon, but there
wero no Infantry nctlons resulting In Im
portant changes.
The text of the communlquo follows:
"The bombardment, which was rather
actlvo during the night In different sectors
of the Verdun region, wna not followed by
nny Infantry nctlon on the part of tho
enemy. At Epnrges wo preventod tho
Continued on Pajre Four, Column Six
HAMMERSTEMAY
PRODUCE OPERA HERE
Impresario in City Seeking Site
for Building Ad
mits Plan
Oscar Hammersteln may return to this
city as the head of a contingent, said to
bo displeased with the way things nre
being run at the Metropolitan Opera
Houso In New Vork. Hammersteln is
planning to erect a building in the cen
tral part of the city far tho production
of opera.
Tho Impresario said so himself. He
admitted It this morning when he arrived
In town to consult real estate agents In
his plan to purchase the old church prop
el ty at tho northwest comer of Broad and
Kpruce streets. Hammersteln said that
he was not nt liberty at the present time
to divulge the names of 'his probable finan
cial backers.
The plans for the undertaking have not
been completed. The chief site considered
is the one mentioned, which the owner is
willing to sell for $700,000. "Tho other
thing," which will be run during tho 3:
weeks of the year when opera is not pro
duced have not been decided on. The
Bingers who may join Hammersteln are
all under contract to the Metropolitan
Opera Company at present.
Tho problem of singers does not, how
ever, worry Mr. Hammersteln In the least,
"Singers! ho exclaimed, with n smile
on his ruddy face. "1 waB to have the
Bamo trouble when I started opera before.
I can pick them up from rathskellers
everywhere. Men aro born to be leaders
In 'one line mine is tho opera and I will
havo no trouble getting the singers."
"But haven't you still an agreement
not to produce opera in this city for a
certain length of tlmo?" he was asked.
"I have." he rejoined. "And It still
has three and a half years to run. Aht
but tho agreement calla for me not to per
sonally direct opera ln New York, Bos.
ton, Philadelphia or Chicago. But It does
not prevent me from producing opera In
Washington. That city Is one In which
I have longed for years to give opera on
a reasonable baula,"
The connection between Philadelphia
and Washington, so far as opera Is con
cerned, was soon made clear by Mr. Ham
mersteln. An opera company in Wash
ington could, according to the impresario,
give performances tn Philadelphia with
out tho personal direction of Mr. Ham
mersteln, but urrder the direction of his
lieutenants. This would not be In viola
tion of the agreement he signed to re
move himself as an operatic obstacle to
the Metropolitan Opera Company.
Finds Her Son Hanging in Bedroom
A mother who. went to awaken her son
this morning found his body hanging to
a rope strung from the door of his bed
room. Police were unable to ascribe n
reabon for the suicide of (he man, Daniel
E. Montgomery, although it is said he had
been ill for several months. When the
police arrived at the house, at 1707 Carl
ton street, the family refused to allow
them to take the body to a hospital
SHIP WARNING
VOTE IN HOUSE
NEXT TUESDAY
"Immediate Action" Advo
cates Beaten in Their De
mand for Ballot Today
MEMBERS ARE DIVIDED
Foreign Affairs Committee Rec
ommends That tho McLemoro
Resolution Be Tabled
The llotlie will vote on Tucsdny on the
McLcmore resolution which warns Ameri
cans off nrmed shins of the belllirercnts.
Members had expected to ole today, hut
shortly after tho session began mi cffoit
wns mndo to delay the ballot until Mon
day, those who faored this Knyliig many
representatives lmd left the city.
ncpiesentiitlves Shcrlcy, Allen nnd
Glass led u tight for "Immediate action"
nnd demanded n vote.
Several conferences followed nnd nt
12:4G o'clock Majority Leader Kltchln
announced that thcro wnH no possibility
of reaching a vote before Tuesday.'
Members of the Rules Committee went
Into executive session to consider a special
rulo to bring out the McLcmore resolu
tion. Republican members of tho Pennsylva
nia delegation in the House held a caucus
on tho McLcmore lesolution nnd nd
Journcd, without taking dcfinlto action,
until Into this afternoon.
Discussion of the nrinrd merchnnt
shlp situation was renewed ln tho Scnato.
Scnntor McCumber denounced "gag rule"
by which ho said discussion of the con
troversy had been blocked In tho Senate.
WASHINGTON. March 4. Houso lead
ers today notified members that there
would bo no voto on tho McLemore reso
lution wnrnlng Americans off nrmed ships
of tlio belligerents before Tuesdny, March
7. Members who wanted to leave Wash
ington wero told that they could go safely.
If they returned to tho cnpltnl by Tuesday
morning.
Majority lender Kltchln announced nt
12:45 that thcro was no possibility of tho
Houso reaching tho McLemoro resolution
boforo Tuesday. Ho said that any effort
to bring tho matter up on Monday would
meet Parliamentary obstacles which would
mako consideration of the measure Im
possible. Members on the floor of the Houso
pointed out that on Tuesday tho congres
sional primaries will bo held In Indiana
and that tho vote of tho members on this
resolution would bo likely seriously to af
fect tlio results there. It was suggested
that a postponement of tho voto would bo
satisfactory to Indiana mombers running
for renomlnatlon.
WANTKD BALLOT TODAY.
After several of the President's friends
had .mapped nut n program to postpono
until Monday a voto In the Houso on tho
resolution. Soveral otnera, Including Rep
resentatives Sherloy, Allen (O.) and Glass,
began a fight to force n vote today, claim
ing that the muddle crcatod by the Senate
vote should bo Immediately cleared up.
Sherley and his coterlo of "Immediate
action" advocates were .loud In their con
demnation of any postponement, and Im
mediately after that program was an
nounced started canvassing tho Rules
Continued on I'age Four, Column Tho
DR. N. WHEY THOMAS
Was Removed as Gas Bureau
Chief When Blankenburg
Took Office
Dr. N. Wlloy Thomas, who was removed
from tho position of chief of the Bureau
of Gas by former Mayor Blankenburg,
was today reappointed. Tho position car
ries a salary of ?"E00.
Judson C. Dlckcrmnn, who was ap
pointed by Mayor Blankenburg, was todny
dismissed from the city service, ho having
refused to resign when asked to do so hy
Director Datesman, of the Department of
Public Works.
Doctor Thomas was appointed chief In
spector of meters In 1899, after having
been certified by the Civil Service Commis
sion at the head of a list of ellgibles.
The examination was conducted by a
scommltteo oomposed of Dr. Edgar Fahs
Smith, provost of tho University of Penn
sylvania (then professor of chemistry) :
Dr. John Marshall, professor In the Uni
versity, and Mr. James H. Wlndrlm, who
had been a Director of tho Department of
Public Works.
Doctor Thomas, who Is a son of the late
Bev. Samuel W. Thomas, was born and
educated In Philadelphia. After attending
Bugby Academy he entered the University
of Pennsylvania and was graduated from
the latter Institution with the class of 1881.
He taught for a short time In Wittenberg
College before he compleed his course of
study for the Ph. D. degree In Muhlen
berg and wns subsequently made Asa
Packer professor of natural and applied
science In Muhlenberg College, which posi
tion nfter several years' service, he re
signed to accept the chair of chemistry and
Physics In Olrard College, where he taught
for 14 years. '
Through the recommendations of some
members of the Board of City Trusts,
during that time he was frequently called
upon as a chemical expert by city officials,
which doubtless led to his original selec
tion us chief Inspector of tho Bureau ot
Gas, the appointment In 1897 tielng pre
ceded by the above-mentioned competitive
examination.
HELD IN WOMAN'S DEATH
John McKee Sent to Prison to Await
Result of Probe
John McKee, of 3S07 Latona street, was
committed to prison without ball by Mag
istrate Pennock, at the Central Station to
day, to await the action of tho Coroner
ln connection with the death of Katie
Glass, who lived at the same address. The
woman died at the Philadelphia Hospital
on March, 1. Policeman Cope said Mc
Kee Is alleged to have beaten the woman
on February 16 during a quarrel over a
check whlcfi the woman received. Cope
said he could not tell If the woman had
died from the effects of the beating or as
a result of natural causey.
QUICK
GERMANS DRIVE RUSSIANS FROM POSITION
bERLIN, nich 4. In n Mitnll ?nsnrmpnt at Alssewltchi, north
mst of jJriraiiorttchl. tlii Ittisslnns wete driven out of their position.
CLYDE LINER. 150 ABOARD BREAKS SHAFT AT SEA
Nl'.W YORK, Mnreh -1 A wireless message from tho Clyde
liner Apache, bound fioiti Jacksonville to New York with 10O pns
sent;eis. on bonitl, lepoitecl th tnhte liner had I) token n cinnk shaft
while off Caps Henry and was In nFcd of a tow. Officials of the lino
chartered a tujj to go lo the Apache's assistance.
BILL TO INCREASE ARMY REPORTED IN SENATE
WASKINGTON, March 1. The Seirnle Intel rupted a bitter Ar
brte on the international situation this afternoon to grnut uunuiimus
coiuctit to Senator Ohnniberlnin to favorably report tho new army
bill. Thin measure provide for nn Incrcnse of tho penctf stitngth
I the regular aimy nf 11S.O00 men and a war sttcnsth of 200,000.
TURK CHIEFS ARRIVE IN JERUSALEM
BEIILTN, March 4. Constantinople dispatches today, reporting: the arrival
at Jerusalem of Enver PaMia, Turkish dictator, nnd Dyemal Pasha, commander
of the 4th Turkish Army, are behoved to signal tho beginning of the Turkish
campaign against Kgypt.
Dyemal Pasha lias been frequently mentioned ns tho probable leader of tho
Turkish invasion.
ITALIAN DEPUTIES GIVE PREMIER VOTE OF CONFIDENCE
HOME, March 4. Tho Italian Chamber of Deputies today gavo Premier
Salandra's Cabinet a vote of confidence of 278 to 40. Tho voto was given ln
connection with an attempt to open drbato on tho war policy.
FRANCIS TO BE NAMED AMBASSADOR ON MONDAY
WASHINGTON, March 4. The nomination of David n. Francis, former
Governor of Missouri, to bo United States Ambassador to Russia, will bo sent to
tho Senate by President Wilson Monday.
FISHER NOT TO SUCCEED BALFOUR
LONDON, March 4. Reports that Arthur J. Balfour, First Lord of tho
Admiralty, would retlro and bo succeeded by Lord Fisher, formorly First Sea
Lord, wero officially denied today. It was stated that the Government had
no Intention of departing from tho custom of having a civilian nt tho head of
tho Admiralty. The general Impression, however, it that a place in tho Ministry
will bo found or mado for Lord Fisher.
BRAZILIAN CRUISER COLLIDES WITH BRITISH CRUISER
NEW TOniC, March 4. The Brazilian freighter Sorglpa was believed to
bo ln distress CO miles south of Sandy Hook early today. "S. O. S." calls worn
received at New York wireless stations. Tho Serglpa was reported to havo
collided with a British auxiliary cruiser off tho coast. After an Interval tho
cruiser, believed to bo tho Caronla, wirelessed that "all was woll." Coast
guard authorities wore perplexed rather than reassured by, this and continued
efforts to learn tho situation on tho Serglpa.
CITY TO HAVE NEW CATHOLIC BOYS' HIGH SCHOOL
A new Catholic high school for boys will bo built In TVost Philadelphia, to re
lieve tho congestion In tho high school at Broad and Race stroots. Title has been
taken by Bishop McCort to a site at tho northwest corner of 49th and Chestnut
streets, with a frontage of 225 feet on Chestnut street and a depth of 214 feet,
lt Ib reported that the price was J47.000.
NAVY GETS DATA ON YACHTS; MAY BE DEFENSE PLAN
Information regarding tlio number nnd size of yachts, big powerboats and
other privately owned craft in tho vicinity of tho port of Philadelphia ls beine
gathered by the authorities at the navy yard. It ls believed that this is a step in
tho preparedness campaign fostered by Secretary Daniels' na-al advisory board.
The Navy League also urged classification of privato craft so that thoy might bo
drafted for servlco in time of war. Tho navy yard officials rofuso to disclose)
fneir purpose ln making up the list. ,
RAIDING AEROPLANE FALLS INTO HANDS OF FRENCH
LONDON, March 4. A Gorman seaplane returning from England waa picked
up yesterday by tho French, three miles north of Middolkerko Bank, off tho
Bolgian coast, it is announced in an official statement. Ono of tho observers ot
tho machlno wns drowned and one was taken prisoner, Tho seaplane dropped
Wednesday, the official statement adds.
BRITISH FINE MRS. PAGET FOR HOUSING ALIEN
LONDON, March 4. Mrs. Almerlc Paget, formerly Miss Paulino Whitney,
has been fined ?1C for having her Bolgian governess ns an unregistered alion
at her houso at Eastbourne, Compton Place, which sho has rented from tho
Duko of Devonshire. Mrs. Pagot stated that her secretary was responsible for
the omission. They know the governess to bo a friendly alion and had hired her
from a rclatlvo of her husband, with whom sho had been many years. Tho Mag
istrate, however, said ho could make no exceptions under tho defense of tho realm
act, and was compelled to impose the fine.
WHITE STAR LINERS TO BE ARMED AT GIBRALTAR
NEW YORK, March 4. Tho White Star Line, which hitherto has refrained
from arming Its steamships excepting tho Adriatic, disarmed after her first trip
announces that those vessels of Its servlco which ply between this and Medi
terranean ports will be armed at Gibraltar on their outward voyages and dis
armed at that stronghold before starting on their return trips across the Atlantic.
This means thoy will go armed while In the Mediterranean and unarmed while on
the Atlantic. The announcement was mado to the passengers of the Canopio bo
fore that vessel sailed for Genoa yesterday.
TRINIDAD WELCOMES COLONEL ROOSEVELT
POnT OF SPAIN, March 4. Theodore Roosevelt and Mrs. Roosevelt
arrived here yesterday and were welcomed by a representative of the Governor
und several prominent local residents. Mr. nnd Mrs. Roosevelt say" they are de
lighted with the trip through tho West Indies and havo been recolved everywhere
with great courtesy. They will stay horo ten days. Desiring a rest from pUbllo
functions, they will accept only a limited number of invitations.
RUSSIANS REPULSE NEW DRIVE IN VOLHYNIA
LONDON, March 4. New offensive operations by tho Austro-German troops
in Volhynla, In tho Cznrtorysk region, aro reported by tlio Russian War Office.
Tho attacks were unsuccessful, it is stated. The reference in the Russian state
ment to this theatre of war read as fallows: "In the region north of Czartorysk
the enemy attempted an offensive, but was dispersed by our artillery,"
VILLA'S CAPTURE BELIEVED NEAR
WASHINGTON. March 4. General Villa is near Chihuahua and his capture
is dally expected, according to telegraphic, advices which reached the Mexican
embassy. The leport states that Villa is at a point midway between the towns
cf Santa Anna and San GeronlmO. A statement issued by the Embassy contains
tho information that "Bordas, the insurrectionist leader, recently captured, ls
being held a prisoner at Ciudad Chihuahua, awaiting the return of General Obra
gon, who Is enjoying his honeymoon in Sonora."
VERDUN'S FATE MAY DECIDE RUMANIA'S COURSE
LONDON, March 4. According to an agency dispatch from Zurich, the Ger
man newspapers print dispatches from the correspondents at Bucharest declar
ing it to bo unquestionable that Rumania Intends actively joining- the Allies. Rus.
sla is furnishing horses to Rumania, the dispatches say, Only a great German
victory at Yerduu, they add, will alter Rumania's determination.
KITCHENER GETS FRENCH DECORATION
LONDON, March -J. Fteld Marshal Earl Kitchener, British Secretary ot
State for War, received today the Grand Cordon of tho Legion of Honor from th
French Ambassador ut tho War Office, it was officially announced last evening.
NEWS
Politics on Page 7
m
41
fl
i
-r-4r" ib-8S'
