OS
WEATHER
MARKE IS
NEW YORK CITV
vNOziav 'xiN30Hd j I II II
Arizona Clearing,
Colder north
Average price
per for week
March 1, 26.64.
MEMBfR ASSOCIATED PHESS
VOL. 18, NO. 240.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 4, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
ODER
3,000
LOST WHEI
5
French Troops Victims When
Auxiliary Cruiser is Lost in
Mediterranean; No Subma
rine Sighted.
VERDUN BATTLE
IS MORE FURIOUS
Germans Hold Douaumont
Extend Lines West and
South French Are Recov-'
ering Lost Ground. j
LONDON March 3. The sinking in j
the .Mediterranean recently of the j
French auxiliary cruiser Provence II j
is believed to have been the greatest
marine disaster in the world's his
tory, so far as loss of life is concern
ed. The French admiralty reports
nearly 4,00 were on board and up to(
date it has only accounted for 878. '
Seemingly more than three thousand ;
perished when the former trans-At-1
lantic liner sunk. The stafT of the
third Colonial infantry was aboard.
Around the village of Douaumont,
which is in the hands of the Germans
is raging a battle of great intensity.
Having captured the Fort and ex
tended their lines west and south, the
Germans were forced to give ground
by vicious infantry attacks of the
French who regained part of the terri
tory lost. Fighting is proceeding fur
iously from the region from Melan
court west of the Meuse to the Woe
vre region, east of Verdun and bom
bardments are violent. The Germans
are endeavoring to force closer to the
fortress of Verdun with the French i
bitterly resisting. '
Considerable artillery activity is re-'
ported in the Argonne forest and up-;
per Alsace. Comparative quiet pre-1
vails on the Russian front. Along the j
line of the Alps and along the Isonzo
river sectors the Austrians and Ital- j
ians continue bombardments and in-'
fantry attacks without materially ;
changing their positions. The Rus- j
Mans have captured the important I
town of Bitlis in the Lake Van region I
1 of Turkish Armenia. Elsewhere in j
the Caucasus region and Persia they
are keeping up vigorous offensive i
against the Ottomans. i
The German seaplane captured off,
the Belgian coast while returning
frpm England is thought to be the !
one recently engaged in bombarding j
the southeast coast and killing a lit-:
tie child. !
The official statement announcing!
the sinking of the Provence said: The !
French auxiliary Provence engaged i
in transporting troops to Saloniki I
was sunk in the mediterranean on
Bebruary 29. 290 passenger survivors
were brought to Malta and about 400 j
to Melos by French and British patrol ;
vessels. No signs of a submarine j
were noticed, either before or after
the sinking. The Provence was!
armed with five cannon of fourteen '
centimeters and six smaller pieces. '
PARIS. March 3. The big battle atj
Verdun has been resumed. The Ger-;
mans worked up their preliminary
bombardment throughout Wednesday:
night and Thursday until the after-1
noon of Thursday when it reached !
great intensity. Special attention j
was directed to the French works
west of the Meuse between Forges
and Melancourt. as well as the famous j.
Pepper lull and Douamcnt positions,
from which it is inferred the Germans '
intend to -make their second effort 1
over a wider area than the six kilo-',
meter front of the first phases 'of the
struggle, with the idea that if it fails'
to break the line on the north it may
sever it on the northwest. With ex
ception of violent assaults on Pepper
Hill and Douumont the German infan
try was not engaged.
The command of French troopj did
not let grass grow under their feel, as:
they profited by the lull proceeding!
the fresh attack by concentrating j
vast stocks of ammunition, fiillingj
gaps in their ranks and strengthen-'
ing the vital points of the defense.
They await the outcome of the battle
with fullest confidence. :
WAR MYSTERY.
PARIS, March 3. The mystery of,
how "i00 Germans of the Brandenburg j
regiment have been able to hold out
a week in the ruined fort of Douau
mont aaint attacks of the French,
says 1'etit Journal, is probably ex
ASKS WARRANT FOR
FIANCE WHO 'STOLE'
ENGAGEMENT RING
it
Miss Hilda Fries.
Miss Hilda Fries, pretty hineteen-ycar-old
San Francisco girl, tried to
pet a warrant for the arrest of her
furrier fiance, who, she complained,
"stole" her engagement ring from
her after she had broken her en
pa?emenL The warrant was re
fused. STATE MEETINB
0
III
Local Central Committee Go
to State Capital to Attend
Conference. Questions of In
terest Expected.
With the departure, last evening, of
John J. Bowen, E. A. Tovrea, Lee
Joanovich and James Henderson for
Phoenix to attend the meeting of the
state Democratic central committee
meeting the first movement on the
part of that party is had.
The Democrats of Arizona now have
avowed candidates for the head of the
ticket George Olney and George W.
P. Hunt. The former has announced
himself, after much urging on the
part of his friends and though there
has been nothing of a definite nature
from the camp of the Governor it is
almost a foregone conclusion that he
will be a candidate.
Olney is the candidate of the con
servative 'Democrats of Arizona. Gov
ernor Hunt is the candidate of the
radical element of the party. Whether
or not the Issue will be clearly de
fined between the two candidates'
supporters, in the central committee
meeting today in Phoenix, a matter
of conjecture.
The complexion of the central com
mittee, as it is now constituted is said
to favor Hunt. Judge Frank Duffy, of
Notrales. is the chairman and he wan,
at one time, considered as a candidate
by the Hunt Democrats in case Hunt,
himself, should not be a candidate.
That Duffy's name has not been men
tioned is good proof of the supposition
that Hunt will be a candidate.
Before the last Presidential election
it will be remembered that the con
servatice wing of the party controled
the central committee. George Olney
was the chairman at that tim and
managed the campaign in the fall
with ' great success. There was con
siderable friction in one meeting be
tween the supporters of Hunt and Ol
ney. One of the matters to be taken up
by the central committee today will
be the setting of the presidential
primary dates, for the selection of
men to represent Arizona in the Demo
cratic convention in St. Louis in June
next. Other arrangements, for the
first part of the coming state and
national campaign will also be formu
lated by the committee and sub-committees
appointed to act in various
capacities during the spring and sum
mer. EX-PRIEST LECTURES
CHICAGO. March 3 Dr. Slattery.
who attempted to lecturp here Wed
nesday, causing a riot and failed again
last night, when the proprietor of a
bull closed the doors on him, made his
txlk. in 'the North Side tonight. Dr.
Slattery Is a former priest who mar
ried a nun.
plained by their having extended sub
terranean passages of the fort estab
lishing communication with the Ger
man advanced lines.
v j
....... ,J.s f
Jf
DEMOCRATS
PHOENIX
SAPPERS ARE
BURIED BUT
E
Remarkable Story is Told in
Paris of Frantic Work by 3
Entombed Men to Reach
Safety During Battle.
ALL BADLY INJURED
WHEN RESCUED
German Military Experts De
clare Their Forecast of the
Army's Ability Was Fully
Vindicated in Battle.
PARIS, March 3. The stc.y of
how three French sappers, buried
alive for hours during the battle
of Verdun, finally dug their way
to safety, is related by one arr'v
ing on the Paris hospital Una.
They had been sent to a mine
ley to fill the mine chamber .mil
had completed the task. A suudf n
explosion of the enemy shell
caused the gallery roof to fall,
wnlling them in.
Realizing the horror they began
to discuss means of escaping.
They decided to wait for a mine
to explode in hopes it would open i
a hole through which they expect
ed to dig to safety. Sounds of the
bottle were plainly audible under
ground. A mine exploded and they
felf a wave of hot air. "Tbey plied
their picks furiously for two hours
and the digging opened the mine
chambers. Drops then began fall
ing. "It's going to be a flood," one
suggested. They lasted the fluid
and realized it was blood indicat
ing the surface was near. They
renewed their digging and were
nearly buried by the falling earth.
All were injured.
They -came upon the bodies of
German dead which had rolled to
the bottom of the mine crater.
After hours of digging and crawl
ing they reached the air. They
'were walled in eight hours and
were picked up almost lifeless by
French ambulance attendants.
PREDICTIONS VINDICATED
BERLIX. March 3. The capture of
the town of Douaumont- nnd
steady
successes of the Germans in the re
gion of Verdun seeningly confirm the
repeated predictions of German mili-
tary experts that the army had the
strength capable of penetrating the.
enemy's lines when the time was ripe.
With characteristic audacity, they did
not attack a weak section, but the ,ne four dwndants Hunt was to re
strongest fortress pivot in the line, the reive-a diamond pin "for keeping his
fall of which would force the aban- niouth shut about the robbery. Shee
donment of the whole Aisne position, j hn o receive a tenth of the loot"
Tfee successes are due to the German Kramer said Mack left the bank in
troops fighting furiously under the thf robbers' automobile five minutes
eyes of the Emperor, but signs of after thp robbery with $1.".00 for she
weakening of" the French morale are nan- "e pictured Mack as the brains
evident, being shown in the collapse of ,he Hiintet that robbed the bank
of tneir resistance south of Verdun. and ",ti0 as an ni"te of Sheehan.
pwt rw,...,..mnt .rnn hill sir! shortly before Christmas. Kramer tes-
meters high and was
the strongest I
and highest fort in the eastern secfor
of the outer rins of forts of the Ver-!a
dun defenses. Between Ikwaumont
and Verdun intervene the torts of Sou
ville. Saint Michel, which belong to
the inner eirdle. but Douaumont com
mands a view of the city, the heart of
which is less than five n-iles distant,
a favorite range for the German mo
bile mortars.
TURKEY TO CAPITULATE?
LONDON. March 3. Morning news
papers featured dispatches from Aath-(
ns that decisive agitation in Constan
tinople in favor of peace is becoming
so pronounced that it would sururise
no one if Turkey suddenly capitulat
ed to the Entente allies. It is report
ed that the governor of Vilayet. Smyr
na, is trying to arrange a separate
peace with the Entente.
HEALTH RESTRICTION
EL PASO. March 3. General Gavi
ra. Carranra commander at Juarez,
said he had established a detention
camp south of the Mexican town for
fumigation and disenfectlon of all per
sons arriving from the interior dis
tricts where communicable diseases
exist. He renorted that he is acting
in concert with the American health
officials, but declared they were not
acting always with proper courtesy.
VILLA FLEES NORTHWEST
EL PASO. March 3 Francisco Vil
la Is fleeing northwest from Casa
Grande, Chihuahua, according to offi
cial dispatches received by General
Gavira at Juarez. It is uncertain
whether Villa is headed to the United j
States or Sonora.
STROXdLY FORTIFIED CITY OF VERDUN
i
ft .. ; -lia
A view of the city c; t.. .,n ., ...c .Avuse river' in. Kra m-.
' . .'i :
Verdun, .st.-onjrly fortified French city, is the pnal ;f 'l.e terrific German offensive wMi h l.as icn develop
irr since early hjst week. The battle here is one of the Lloodiest in the history of the war. Verdun has a
topubtion of 2,000. '. .
: :
HIGHER-UPS ABEir-
One of Quinte that Robbed
Chicago Suberb's Bank Im
plicates Police and Officer of
the Robbed Institution.
CHICAGO. March 3. Charles Kra
mer, one of the four defendants on
trial for the J15.000 robbery of the
Washington Pork National Bank, on
the witness (stand, named Captain
Hunt ana SergeaDt sneelian of the
Chicago detective department, and
Harry Kavanaugh, n director in the
bank as participants in the alleged con
spiracy which the defendants claim I
I.. .1 .1 . L .1 L. 1 - t.
ieu iiieiu it rou me uhiih. rvrauirr
said that Eddie Mack, a confessed
bank robber and state's witness, told
lined- M'ick left 123. representing a
1 Part of ,he oot of nve Ppocke!s
rar for slle,lian-
MYSTERIOUS STEAMER.
NEWPORT NEWS. March 3. Capt.
Griffiths of the British steamer Wings
reported on the ship's arrival here
that he was fired on twice by a
mysterious steamer about 600 miles
ofT the Virginia Capes twelve days
ago. Captain Johnson of the British
steamer Lady Plymouth brought to
Norfolk a report that he had been
chasrn for tnirtv six hollrB Dv a .raffi
which he
filially eluded in the dark-''
ness.
COUNTERFEIT MONEY PLOT.
. .. lofficers is the most serious aspect, be-
rASO' Marr ''-A ,n'1",,, fr,! cause it takes ten years to train a com
making counterfeit half dollars of ., ,io,enan, ,, ,ieutenan( ,.om.
United States currencv was seized in 1 ,
, ,, . mander.
Juarez by Mexican police on com-
plaint of a United States secret agent, j
Two men and a woman were arretsed
while melting metal, officers stated, i
FILES APPAM REPLY.
NORFOLK. March 3. The German
reply to the libel suit instituted in the
federal court by the British owners
of the liner Appam to recover the
ship wa filed in the court by Lieut
enant L'erg. commander of the prize
crew which brought the Appa'ii to Granrt iniKe. otner aristocrats, pn
Hampton Koadcs. It denies jurisdic- crin'S. peasants, becears. stood shoul
tion on the ground that the liner was der to shoulder. They knelt alone a
lawful property of the German Rov -
ernment under i:eaty and entitled to
remain indefinitely in American
waters "exempt of any legal process."
.1 .
The date of hearing probably will be
set tomorrow.
HI IIIIIIIIM "-
WILL CHOOSE DELEGATES
SAX FRANCISCO. March 3.
A complete ticket of candi
dates for the California delega
tion to the National Republican
convention in Chicago will be
formulated here tomorrow
night. "All hope of compromise
with the Earl Republicans has
vanished." said Francis V.
Keesting. chairman of the
state central committee. "V
are going to choose 2fi big cal
ibre Republicans to fight it out
on the ballot. The fat is in
the fire."
.
THREE FOURTHS
OF FLEET IN
E
SERJC
Admiral Fletcher Says That Eaton's aceusiatlons are wholly and
Only Fifteen lof Twenty-One j e'cily women and equal suffrage
Ships Are With the Atlantic j workers were among the spectators
Squadron Now. j packing the court room where the
hearing was held. They listened in-
WASHINGTON, March 3. Onlv nf- tently to the defense of the woman
teen out of twenty-one battleships 0f,rharKe1 wltn Mrs. Eaton to
the Atlantic fleet Hre on active duty
in West Indian waters, while thret
, others are being crippled by lack of
(officers and men and cannot operate.
and three others are either waiting or
undergoing extensive repairs. Fifteen
active ships are short of eight to sev
enteen officers. 10000 coal passers.
.electricians, gunners mates and otner,
trained men, although they have a-1
board about 100 more men than the reporters "I'll stand pat," was frus
total personnel allowed by regulations, trated by the strenuous objections of
This situation was pictured by Ad-j her attorneys,
miral Fletcher to the House Naval j
Committee. In his opinion and that if j
various board officers, the battleships
squadron of the active fleet required at
I least 5.000 additional men. The short
aee will not materially injure the effi
ciency of the fleet called upon imme
diately to engage the enemy. Ijck of
MYSTICISM IN RUSSIA
BERLIN. March 3. Th Overseas
News Agency, by private information
from Petrograd. described a mystic
revival movement being conducted in
Russia, accompanied by scenes that
witnesses compare to "religious ecsta
cies of medieval times."
"At one of the services, held by th
Archbishon. a thousand, including the
road thirty below zeft. to receive a,
bVsslnr. The Synod and better
csted cery protested but were not
heard. The Emperor himself was
much Impressed by ascetic ism and
mysticism."
IS TEUTON COAL
JEALOUSY CAUSE
OF CHARGE IS
DEFENSE
MrS. Rowe Facing Trial in a mlttee asserts the constitution impos
Chica.O Graft Scandal SavS ed the ondiK t of diplomatic negotia-
Her Opponent was Jealous
of Her.
-
CHICAGO, March 3. Mrs. Ixmise
Osborne Rowe, head of the Social
I Welfare bureau told the civil service
commission that jealousy caused the
I "split salary" charge by Mrs. Page
Waller Eaton.
She testified:
"Mrs. Eaton was jealous of me and
the good work done by my depart
ment and wanted my job. She flatter
ed me and was over gracious. She
told me I was fair and square. I was
always dubious."
Mrs. Rowe began by saying. "Mrs.
i omnnuie a intra oi ner salary o'
$3,000 a year to a fund described oc
casionally as the "charity fund for
the sister-in-law of Mayor Thompson"
and also a fund to enable the mayor
to recuperate from his heavy cam
paign expenses.
An attempt by Mrs. Eaton's attor
neys to learn whether or not Mrs.
Rowe plays poker in order to show
what she meant when she told the
ANOTHER TACK TAKEN
IN THE BRANDIES CASE.
Br-tish officials in Australia believe
WASHINGTON. March 3. The a German cruiser is somewhere in the
Senate committee, considering the ' Pacific. For two weeks the Niagara
nomination of IaiiiIs Brandeis to the was kept at top speed, arriving a day
Supreme Court, inauuurated a new. ahead of time .
line, of inquiry. It is understood to
have summoned William Whitman, a REVIEWS WAR ACTION
woolen manufacturer of Boston, and' SOFIA. March 3. Premier Radosla
William Ingersol. a' watch manufac-'voff, in a review- of events leading to
Hirer, to testify what connection, if the co-operation of Bulgaria with the
any. Brandeis had with the snccessr.il Central Powers declared that all par-,
campaign of the passase of the Stv- ties now unhesitatingly approve the
ens Price Maintenance Bill by Con- government's foreign polir"- He laid
gress. The committee's exact purpose emphasis on thp important character
was not announced. of territorial acquisitions said to have
Senator Walsh said Whitman had been gained with Bulgarian blood.
been asked to appear because it had '
been brouuht to the attention or Mie; HERRERA SUMMONED,
committee informally that he nir;hf EL PASO. March 3. General Luis
know something adverse to Brandeis. Herrera. former Carranza military
The only testimony heard o far chief of Chihuahua state, and his en
relative to Brandeis" part was the tire staff, have been summoned to
price of maintenance of the campaign Queretsro. according to o.Ticial dis-
that the secretary of the Amertf-Ar . patche. Herrera recently was
edu-!Fir Trade League to the effect :hatpoed because of failure lit rigorously
: Brandeis erfused to nay f- funh r prosecute th pursuit of Francisco
, ing the objects of the la:ue. am! the! Villa. Officials discredit the reports
passage of such a
Stevens bill.
measure in the
SENATE VOTES
CONFIDENCE
iraODROl'J
WILSON
Upper Branch of . Congress
Goes On Record When Sen
ator Gore's Resolution Gets
Rejected by Big Majority.
DISTURBING SCENES
HAD IN THE CHAMBER
Oklahoman Says It's Only a
Part of Victory for the Ad
ministration. House Pleased
with Action.
WASHINGTON. .March 3. By a
vote of sixty-eight to fourteen the
Senate carried out president's wish
and killed Senator Gore's resolution
warning Americans off armed boats.
In a turbulent scne. whlc bis seldom
: witnessed in the I nited States sen
j ate, the voting preceeded with sena
I tors shouting their objections and fu-
tility demanding recognition to' ex-
plain their position and making hot re
j tors to each othr.
I t one time so many were s'loming ,
J for recognition the sergeant a! amis
was called to restore order. Free ex
pressions of opinion were. that the
senate's action was in effect a "Scotcu
verdict." and had not- actually acccm-
; plishel the purpose of the Prcsii'mt.
In the House however, the Foreign
j AiTs'rs committed ote was seventeu
i to two. It took a longer step toward
; meeting fully the president's wishes,
i It voted to report that the McLemore
t warning resolution and recommenda-
. : v. . . . . . i j t... . . .i
ti.tn., .... i,A nMcijn-, "H -1. 1. . i.
,i..i,n vii tile ri r.im III. t nil llil
practice the committee does not fee.l
It proper that the House of Represen
tatives should interfere."
It will probably be voted on In the
House tomorrow under a special rule.
The administration i sconfiuent of
victory.
In the white house satisfaction is
freely expressed with the Senate's
action. Senator Gore voted for the
motion to be tabled and declared he
considered the administration's vic
tory a mixed one. The debate that
followed was sensational.
Senator Lewis, the Iemocratic whip,
pleaded with the senator for a modt
ration of their remarks. He declared
the Spanish war could have been
averted by action of congress similar
to that taken and that the war was
brought cn by i;uperatIon at the
president.
tcnator t;oran. a republican, ar
raigned the Senate for what he char
acterized as evasive action. "I would
rather have our battleships sunk than
the honor of this Senate compromised
liefore the world."
Senator Kern, the majority leader.
Upheld the action, asserting that he
would proclaim to all nations that the
president, in exercising his consti-
, tutional powers "spoke not for him-
self, not for his party but for all the,
people of his country who were pre-
I pared to back him with their lives
in their Insistence on American
rights."
GERMANS IN PACIFIC
' HONOLULU. March 3.-Reports by
'passengers of the British steamer Ni-
ara which arrived yesterday from
: Sidney for Vancouver, indicate that
that he was summoned for a court
martial, and said he was not guilty.
