rr '- J-; ",';m-y - jiy
. -i ' t
I
j
TO
L ut .
I
"SI
I
I
T
.
Sinking of the Provence Greatest Ocean Disaster in History
XX XX XX tt tt XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX IX XX XX XX tx
WEATHER REPORT
K( Ii KPA ST )k I h ho mil : Sutnnlny
fuir, warmer; (Sunday fuir, continued
tvunn.
'IT LB A, March a. Thn temper
tu re; Maximum uiininittm 12.
Sim III whuIx and clear.
FttA
'tF TP TF
j )
PROSPERITY TALK
A trip ilirnnifli thft reHnlenf ilWtri't
tinltit lliHt TiiUa'n iMipuUtiim U
Me-nllly iiMTPftHihK. Thtr nr nun
ilreil of new hmueH now bein liu 1 1 1 .
VOL. XI, NO. 14 5
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, SAT PR I) AY. MARCH 4. 1 ! 1 i
TEN' PAUES
PRICE FIVE CENTS
4,000 TROOPS ON VESSEL
WHEN SHE SUM! III THE
KIEOITTERAM FEB. 29
French Official Statement Leaves the
Cause Unexplained; First
Reported 210 Lost
The French ministry of marine had previously issued
no statement as to the number of persons on the Prov
ence when she went down. The vessel, however, when
in the trans-Atlantic service, could carry 1,960 persons
including the crew and it has been presumed that as she
' was transporting troops between ports not far apart she
was carrying a number of men larger than her normal
capacity.
The official statement announcing the sinking of the
Provence sail:
"The French auxiliary cruiser Provence II (so des-J
ignated to distinguish her from the French battleship
Provence) engaged in transporting troops to Saloniki
was sunk in the Mediterranean on February 26. Two
hundred and ninety-six survivors have been brought to
Malta and about four hundred to Melos by French and
British patrol vessels summoned by wireless. . '
"No signs of a submarine were noticed either before
or after the sinking. La Provence was armed with five
cannon of fourteen centimeters, two of 57 millimeters
and four of 47 millimeters."
PARIS, March 3.-12:55 a. m. It was announced at
the French ministry of marine today that there were
nearly four thousand men on board the French auxiliary
cruiser Provence when she was sunk in the Mediter
ranean on February 26.
It was stated that on board the Provence" were the
staff of the Third colonial infantry regiment, the Third
battalion, the Second company of the First battalion, the
Second machine gun company and one extra company,
in all nearly four thousand men.
Blind Senator
Votes to Kill
Resolution
The roll cull on the mot ion to
Initio Hcnulnr (lore's resolution
wuriiliifE Amerleiitm off iirinrd
Hhipx WiiM UN follows:
Ayex AsliurHt, Hanklieail. ISeek
hiitu, HmnIc'K''e, I'loiixxiild. Knr
lelKh, (Million, CMnrke (Ark. I.
(Mark Wyo. I, Cole, CiillieiKon,
I'liriix, 1 HIIIiikIwiiii, Iml'ont,
lMetrher. (lore, HnrillnR, llaril
wlck, Hitehcoek, llolli. IIiikIu-s,
HnsllliK, .I iiik m, JollllKoll (Me. I.
IoIiiihoii ( S. i. ), Kernw Lane, l.re,
(Mil. I, Low Id, LoiIko, Mel,e:iil,
Martin, Martlne, Mers, Nelson.
New la n ils, Oliver. Overman, Owen,
Pane, IMielan, Hitman, I'oliulex
ler, I'omerene, Kansilell, lteeil,
Shafrotli, Sheiianl, Slilelils, Sim
mons, Smith (Ai iz. I, Smith Ida.),
Smith (Mil ). Smith (Mieh.), Smith
(S. ('.), Slerlinu, Stone, Swaiison,
Thomas, Thompson, Tillman, t'n
ilerwood, Variiainan, Wailswort h,
Walsh, Warren, Weeks, Williams.
Total S.
Nays llorah, fMiamlierlaln,
Clapp, Cummins, Fall, dalllncer,'
(iroiina, Jones, Lit l-'ollette, Sic
Cumlier. Norris. O'Corman, Sher
inan, Works. Trtiil 14.
Senator Gore of Oklahoma, Who Lost
Fight in Senate Friday, and His Wife
RUSS CAPTURE CITY
FROM TURK TROOPS
Hit lis, Turkish Armenia.
Falls to Heavy Rus
sian Assault.
As the minister of marine on February 29 announced
that the number of survivors of the Provence disaster
was estimated at 870, it is indicated by the foregoing
dispatch that upwards of 3,130 lives were lost.
The loss of more than three thousand lives in the
French auxiliary cruiser Provence is the greatest ocean
disaster of modern times. Up to the present the largest
number of lives ever lost in one wreck was when the
White Star liner Titanic struck an iceberg off the New
foundland banks on April 14, 1912, and sank with a
death loss of 1,959. The rescued numbered 713.
SIX BATTLESHIPS
ARE NOT ON DUTY
Three Are Short of Officers
and Other Trio Under
going Repairs.
MORE MEN NEEDED
Admiral Fletcher llankn U.
8. Navy, Between Third
and Fourth.
of the hctlv fleet required at least
live thousaml uililltl.mal men over tho
ooiiiplementH now Hsslnetl. Tho
Miortano In the various nuimrs, lio
exphilneil, however, would not ma
terially In lure the eft'ieleiirv of the
fleet were It cuiled upon immediately
lo rnVHKn enemy.
The lark of offleers was the most
serious nspmt, dmlral rieleher
thought, hoeause It requires ten yearn
to train h eonipetent lloutumint or
lieutenant comniiimler. Many sui?
Bestions us lo how the training of
yoiiiiK offleeis inlwht he haslemvl had
lieen advanced, he addon, hut in Ills
opinion the only etleelive and logical
uy would ho to Increase the Annap
olis cadet corps In two thousand men
and uwalt their development.
UeprnHontatlvo. Uohel-ts asked
where Admiral I'leteher r.'itiKed the
American fleet among; tho navies of
tho world, and was (old. that it was
"some place lint ween third .ind
fourth" with " h Rood margin over
Japan," which was filth, l.ackli)
exuet knowledge- of the Krn'li liulhl
Ing proKram, Admiral llei(liei said
he could not make n closer com
parison. ,
WASIIIMCITON. March J. ( inly IS
of the 1 liultletihlpB of the Atlantic
fleet aru on active duty In West In
dian waters, three of the other six
l. helim so crippled for look of of-
fL- fleers and' men that they cannot
operate with the fleet and the other
. three either awaiting or undergoing
extensive repairs. The 15 active ships
ure short from elKht tn 17 officers
eaili of the numlier asslmied to thorn
hy tho navy department, and one
thousand coal passers, electricians,
gunners mutes and others trained en
listed men, although they have uboard
about nno hundred more men than
tvtlm total personnel allowed hy retju
liitl.ms, This was the situation of (lie fleet
as pictured today by Admiral Fletch
er, commander-in-chief, befoic ihe
. house naval coiiiinlltee. He aldcd
thai in his opinion and that of various
t.osrds of officers who had studied
the subject, the battleship squndions
NEW LINE INQUIRY
IN BRANDEI3 CASE
WASHINGTON, March 8. A new
line of inquiry was Inaugurated today
by the senate committee considering
the nomination of I.ouis I), Brandels
to the supreme court. William Whit
man, u women mauuraeturer or Hos-
ton, and William H. InRersoll, a watch
itiunnfairfiiru. "t V f ... V ., 1.
,,, Mv , u. c. w ..cn . ui n. nam nuiii-
inojied to testify, it is understood, us
to what connection, if any, Mr. Hran
deis had with the unsuccessful cam
paign for passnae of the Stevens Price
maintenance bill by con Kress.
Thu entire time of the committee
today was consumed by Edward F.
McC'lenncn, a member of the Bran
dels law firm, in explaining Brandels'
connections with the Warren will cast
ana me unieue safety kmoj;
French Mnke (5;iiis Around
Verdun; Uerlin Is
0tiinist ic.
PKTROCIUAH, via London, March
3 (10:19 p. m.) it is officially
announced that tho KussifinH Ikjvp
captured Illtlis, Turkish Armenia,
about 110 miles southeast of Krzerum
near the sunt li western exlreinitv
of
The city was taken by
Mi
I 1
V - ill
I : p
' ft i J
l'kVW r ' S
, - ! i k"f i ! Il l
i ' V" .
BY OtJE-SIDED VOTE THE
SENATE UPHOLDS WILSON
AND HIS FOREIGN POLICY
Senator Gore's Resolution to Warn
Americans Off Armed Ships
Defeated by 68 to 14
PRESIDENT ELATED: NOW UP TO HOUSE
l,akn Van.
assault.
Itlllitt la ti niii. ,-.r ir: nun tn
habitants and the canii.il of ilw vll- I
ayet of the same name. It has num- i
crous mosiiues and convents of danc
ing dervishes and is located 4,700 '
feet above sea. level. j
The Prencli fiffi,i:il iiniiiin,.anii,i
follows:
"VV'iiutnrn I tliioul.ni rr.. -
,i,ii..-i,,ii, (iimii. i lie
enemy atteniited nil offensive In tho
district north of C'zartorysk, but was
dispersed by our artillery.
'Caucus front: Our 'troops con
tinue their pursuit of the Turks. The
iiKiiiinu' in huh district Is proceeding
under exceptional difficulties owing to
the eomplete dlsorga nization of the
roads, the severe frost und deep snow.
"The news has Just arrived tliHt our
troolls last llielll i-nrricl llitllu I.,, ..a.
siitilt, eapturliig six cannon. Among
the Turkish prisoners are IT offleers
Including a colonel."
I 'rem 1 1 llcgaln (.round
I'AItlS. .Manh :i. l(ia i. ml
Thn Krineb have nofinil..,! i, v.
est part of the mound on the north
ern mojiu ui which ine village or mill.
aumont Is situated and also In Colin-
ler auacKs against thn (iermuns have
regained ground In the Immediate vi
cinity of I loiiiiuinont, according to the
French official communication mude
public this evening.
The buinbardinent continues very
violent along tho entire front from
lie west of the Me use to ihe Woevre
region.
FLOOD SITUATION
IS STILL SERIOUS
N'HW nrtU4AS, March 3 fevoes
at Torras and llayou Haia, ja re
ported today endangered by the flood,
still were holding tonight and en
gineers believed that both embank
ments" would withstand the pressure.
No other points of danger were re
ported tonight,
At Torras the dike nlong the lower
Old river showed signs of weakening
last night. Men an, I material were
hurried tn the s-eno and the embank
ment strengthened. At llayou Sara
the Mississippi river today reached a
higher btagn than the. original levee
but banquettes built on the earth
work protected the town.
Major W. tl, Tuples, L'nlled States
engineer here, slated that he did ii'it
uulieipati) serious trouble along the
lower reaches of the river near this
city,
In northern Louisiana the wuter
coming tin out li tlio crevussa at Buck
Kldge has reached a level In (!on
nordia parish and wus railing slowly
In Tensas.
Cyclomi n ieorgla.
MAf!O.V, March 8. Heports re
ceived here tonight indicated that a
tornado did extensive damage in
southern Ueorgia early today, The
storm swept through Tumor county,
causing heavy losses at Ashhurn and
otherpoints, Buildings were destroyed
and farm animals klllpd. No less of
life has keen reported,
x
Blind Senator's Resolution
win lil arc now
Willi all iho
The text of the (lore resolution follows:
"Whereas, A number of leading powers of the
engaged in a war of unexampled piopo'li "lis, and
hereas, The I lilted Statea is happily .it peace
blligerent nations, und
"Whereas. It is equally the desire and the interest of the Amer
ican people to remain at peace tvilh all the nations, ami
"Whereas, The president h is recently n't udi d lic.-di ami siKD ii
proofs of the superiority of diplomacy tu huh hei v as a met hod of
settling international disputes; and
"Whereas, The light ol Amerlcar i i:iens to travel on unarmed
belligerent vessels has recently received guarantees of respect ami
Inviolability; anil. .
"Whereas, The right of American citizens to travel on armed
belligerent vessels rather than upon unarmed vessels Is essentiil
neither to their life, liberty or salcty, nor to the iimep qidencc, dig
nity or security of the I'nlted Hi a tea; und,
"Whereas, Congress alone has been v-ted with the power to
declare war, which involves thn obligations to prevent war by nil
proper means consistent with the honor and vital Intel est of 'he
nation: Therelore, be it
"Itesolv ed, Hy the senate, the house of 1 1 pre .senlntives coiicui -ring,
that it is the sense of tho congress, vested as It Is with ihe sole
power to declare war, that all persons owing allegiance to the
I'nlted States should, in behalf of their own safely and the vital In
terest of the I'nited .Stales, forbear to exercise tli right to travel
passengers upon any arimvf vessel of any belligerent power, whether
such vessel be armed for olleniilve oi defensive purposes, Mini it Is
the further sense of congress that no passport should be issued or
renewed by the secretary of stale or by any one acting under him,
to bo used by any person ow ing allegiance to the i'nlteil States, for
purposes ot travel upon uny such hiiiiciI vessel of a belligerent
power."
Thn text of Senator (lore's addition lo his orglnal valuing reso
lution ami which was lablo.l villi the warning resolution was as
follows:
"Itesolved. by the annate and house of representatives concur
ring, tlist the sinking by a ilMiuan solium line wtihoiil notice or
warning of an armed merchant vessel of hi i public enemy, n suiting
III ths deuth of a eilliren of the I'lilled Slates would consliul a tusi
and sufficient cause of war lielwetli tho l iilieii Stalls and the (ier
mun empire."
Leading Democrats of Claremore
Regret Stand Taken by Senator
CLAKKMOKK. Okla.. March As it i i cvi.lcncc of tho
hitter l"ccliiir iiroiiM'il hero i njr tin h'liilinjr I inn-fiits
mill loynl supporters of the iiiliiiiiitstnitioii's policy rela
tive to'the actions of a portion ol' the hellipTciit countries
cliffajiisl in the "treat Kuropean conflict hy the stand taken
on the floor of the senate (liiriutr tin lay's session hy I'niteil
States Senator T. P. (hire, the following telegram, signed
hy State ('(iniinilleciiiau ('. H. llolteiulorf and a score of
other prominent 1 leinocraR was dispatched lo the sen
ator I'Yiday afternoon:
"It is with the keenest regret that we read your at
tack upon the president's foreign policy yesterday upon
the floor of the senate. We feel that your words were
an attack upon the Democratic party, as well as the pres
ident personally, and as part of your constituency we
assure you that the people of your state are in hearty sym
pathy with our president and his policies and we helieve
that you should make reparation for the injury already
done in this possihle hasty moment and withdraw your
opposition to the president's policy, and stand hy the ad
ministration when it needs you most."
TAKE EVIDENCE IN
THAW DIVORCE SUIT
PITTSnrilOir, Pa., March The
hearings of the suit for divorce
brought by Marry K. Thaw against
his wife, Uvelyn Nesbit Thaw, opened
here today before a muster appointed
by the court to bear thu testimony,
Tho hearings will be private and none
of the evidence will he made public.
Mrs. Thaw was not present when the
ease opened, today and it wus learned
that she was not represented by
counsel,
Foster Highly Honored,
WASH IINUTON, March 8 John W.
Foster, seoretury of Btate under Har
rison, former minister to China and
for the lust thirty years u legal ad
viser to the Chinese government, has
been honored on his eightieth birth
day by President Yuan flhl K'ui, with
the first class of the Order of the
Uolden drain, the highest decoration
that can be bestowed by the Chinese
exeoutive.
Mr. Foster makes his home here
with his on-ln-law, Beoretry Leasing,
ANOTHER BUILDING
ON BOSTON AVENUE
Townloy UrotliM's IJuy"Lot
From V. A. Reynolds
Will Improve.
WASHINGTON', March :.- P.y a vote of sixty-eight to fourteen
the senate today carried out I'resident Wilson's wish and killed
Senator (lore's resolution to warn Americans off armed belligerent
ships.
In it turliuleiit scene such as is seldom witnessed in the senate,
the voting proceeded with senators shouting objections, futilely de
manding recognition to explain their positions and making hot re
torts to each other, all of which were out of order. At one tittm
so many senators were shouting for the vice-president's recognition
that the sergeant-at arms was called to restore quiet.
After having maneuvered for two davs to get the resolution
i in such parliamentary position that it could he disposed of without
debate, the senate then proceeded to a general discussion of the
i subject, which continued all afternoon to the dismay of administra
tion supporters.
There were free expressions of opinion that the senate's action
because the vote actually was taken on a motion to table the (lore
resolution with a correction hy the author and a substitute by Sen
ator Met 'umber, was in effect a "Scotch verdict" and had not
actually accomplished the purpose of the president.
Such statements aroused the president's friends who feared
they would produce an effect exactly opposite to that intended,
a notice to the world that the senate stands behind the president
in his demands on Germany for the rights of Americans traveling
the schs,
Report McLemoro Warning;.
Tu the house, however, the foreign affairs committee by n voto
of seventeen to two took a longer step toward meeting fully tho
president's wishes. It voted to report the Moljomore warning res
olution with the recommendation that it be tabled. In the report
the committee asserts that the constitution imposed the conduct
of diplomatic negotiations on the president and "with this prac
tice the committee does not feel it proper for the house of repre
sentatives to interfere."
It probably will he voted on in tho house tomorrow under a
special rule. Administration forces are confident of a full fledged
victory.
At the White House satisfaction was expressed with the senate's
action,
Senator Gore voted for the motion to table and declared he eon.
sldered the administration victory a mixed one.
The debate which followed the
AN "Til Kit five-story building for
Huston avenue was assured yes
Utrdsy whon Townloy Bros, ptir
cliusod from W. A. Keynolds. a lot on
that thoroughfare directly north of
the Drew building.
Pome time ago Mr. Tteynolds an
nounced his Intention of erecting a
three-story edifice on this property
and had prepared plans for tho struo-
ture. iowniey prothers orfeied him
(Continued on Paqi Tw.)
senate vole wits sensational. H"im
tor Lewis, the Iieniocratlu whip,
pleading with senators for modera
tion In their remarks, declared the
tipautsh war would have been averted
by action In congress similar to that
taken today and that the war was
brought on by vituperative debates.
Senator Clarko, Democrat f Arkan
sas, who voted with the administra
tion forces, declared their action did
not represent thn real setiliii'ent of
the sennlti. Senator 1 "h II. iiepiibli
cuu, said:
"t'ompi'OiiiUo of Honor."
''Hy jour action today you have
sent lo t lie kuisur, If you have done
anything, notice that the senate of
the I'nited .States will look upon his
(inking of armed merchant ships and
toe death ol an American clUucnl
r regret.
!e taken
l!i-iuli!kin, ar.
seiuit.' ior hat ho char,
hs ewi.iive. action, 1K
probably with h.uni. degree
but tliut no action would
against hint.''
Senator l.otah,
mimic, I in
acterlzed i
said he would rather have battle
.'Vips sunk than to have the honor of
this senate com u "in i.i.mI before the
world "
On the other hand. Senator Kern,
tho majority leader, upheld the ac
tion, asnerting that it would proclaim
to all nations thu: the president In
Mrcisiiig his constitutional powers
In the conduct of negotiations, spoke
"not for himself, not for his party,
but for all the people of his country
who are prepared to back .htm with
(Continued on Tago Two.)
