USINESS IS GOOD—This Is the Year of Promise —PROSPERITY IS HERE
HM. BOWER, author of
"The Ranch at tha Wol
* varlna," which la to ba
publiahed next weak In Tha
Star, la a woman.
She la at 111 mora; aha la a
woman of myatery. She la
known to the literary world
aa a Seattle woman.
Why, Cerftfflnnally B
Go ft® SBa© "Movnca"
Most every one does. And you
want to know, of course, what's what
at the 'movies." Well, The Star is
Johnny-on-the-spot to tell you. No
long-winded, stereotyped write-ups,
but just the snappy, happy style you
like. See page 3.
ATTACKS SECRETARY DANIELS
FORMER NAVY HEAD CHARGES INEFFICIENCY
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS THE MAN
AS A student of municipal affairs, ex
perienced in the city's needs and
problems, as a man of high ideals, honest,
square, able and courageous, and, above
all, true to his word, Austin E. Griffiths,
as mayor, will bring to Seattle the peace
and progress in the next two years to
which the city is entitled.
This record of efficiency has been recognized
on every hand. It has not been disputed. It s
not disputed today except by Hiram C. Gill, wh">
Misstates facts and figures. It is not disputed
even by Gill's personal organ, the Post-Intelligencer.
On the morning after the primary election,
less than two weeks ago, on February 22, 1916,
the Post-Intelligencer, sneaking of Griffiths, said:
"Griffiths' strength this year come* from f
number of causes. First, his record as a public ser
vant is unimpeachable. The capable handling of
the police department as chief for almost a year won
him the admiration of the electorate. He has
stressed the need of administrative efficiency and
ha. paid more attention to this subject than the
other candidates. The Griffiths platform is that
the mayor is really the city manager and should
devote his attention particularly to administration.
Mr. Griffiths has advocated practical administration
of the city-owned utilities and has not hesitated to
point out the iU results caused by a temperamental
and erratic policy."
On the day before the primaries, the Gill or
gan (it did not think Griffiths had a chance of
nomination then) said:
"Griffiths has served ably in the council."
This praise of Austin E. Griffiths was entirely
justified by his record of 2X years of residence in
this state and his constant endeavor to be of service
to the city and to his fellow men and women.
His ability was recognized by the State Bar as
sociation when it chose him as a delegate to the
International Law and Arbitration conference at
The Hague.
HIS INTEREST IN LABOR PROBLEMS HAS
WON HIM MEMBERSHIP IN THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR LABOR LEGISLATION, OF
WHICH THE MOST PROMINENT MEN IN THE
COUNTRY, RECOGNIZED LABOR LEADERS
I IKE SAMUEL GOMPERS, JOHN MITCHELL,
AND MEN OUTSIDE THE LABOR RANKS, ARE
MEMBERS.
His interest in the welfare of children is well
known in Seattle. He fathered the playgrounds
movement here and brought about, even before he
held any public office, the playgrounds system here.
HOUSE PLANS
VOTE MONDAY
WASHINGTON, M»reh 4.—
Division among President Wil
ton's lupporteri In the houM
broke out today.
After several planned to
poatpone a vote on the McLe
more warning reaolution, pro
viding the desired Wilson
"showdown," others. Including
Representatives Sherley, Allen
and Glass, began a fight to
force a vote today, declaring
the muddle surornudlng the
vote In the senate yesterday on
the Go re resolution must bo
cleared up Immediately.
Advocates of Immediate action
condemned plan* for postponement
announced by Acting Chairman
Poll of the house rules committee,
who said It was due to the fact that
many congressmen were absent
.from the city.
The Mcl,emore resolution, warn
ink Americans off armed ships, wan
formally reported from the foreign
committee by Chairman Flood,
when congress convened today,
with a recommendation that It he
tabled.
Will Postpone Vots
following s conference of house
Yet no one, ao far aa It haa
been poealbla to learn, la able
to tell a great deal about her.
8ora» year* ago, It la *alt', alio
lived on a ranch near Puyallup
with her father and tw.i t>«*t«y
et*tera. She win an adventurn
some girl, full of life.
She had a tanging for (hp open
leaders. Majority leader Kltchln
said It was practically certain the
Mcl/emore resolution vote would
be postponed to Monday, and pos
sibly Tuesday.
lie declared also that It was
probable the resolution would be
re drafted *■» that the house could
vote directly upon the merits of
warning Americans not to travel
on armed ships.
Jones Talks In Senste
If the three Americans who left
New York today on the liner
f'arioplc are killed by a submarine,
they would be victims of their
own bravado, and America ought
not to ko to war over their deaths,
according to Henators Jones. Mc
Cumber, Cummins, Hitchcock snd
Clapp, who spoke today In a con
tinuance of assaults on the admin
Istratlon's foreign |>ol|cy.
The people do not understond
fine-spun International law, but
they cari see the InJiißt|r« of ask
lug uh to plunge 100,000,000 per
sons Into war because of the crim
inal bravado and recklessness of
th'-se persons," said Jones.
Kent your huuso with Star Want
Ads.
anil dreamed contlnuou*lv of tha
cow country, eaat aomewhein In
the inountalna.
Iter fallmr wanted her to bo a
home girl.
Hut something had ruled that
Ml«* Mower waa to he otherwise
The call of tha cow country
drew her away from her homo.
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS I
VOLUME It.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS
He has been a member of the National Child
Labor committee.
He headed the Charities' Organization societv
In Seattle and was chairman of an important com
mittee in the National Conference of Charities and
Correction.
ASKS THE CHIEF
TO DREAMLAND
MCETINOB TONIGHT
Austin K, Griffith* and Die I
Harmon will address thr»«
meetings Hiiturday nl(tht as I
follow* Htelner's hall, Inter- 1
bay; 4536 45th 0. W.; I
Woodland Presbyterian rhurrh,
70th *t. and Palatine avn.; ]
Pickwick club, 45: i« 4f>lh avn
H. W. The I'lrkwlrk club la
giving an entertainment to
night, to which an admlaaloti la
charged, and (irlfntha has
been given a special Invitation
to speak.
Mayor Dili will speak at ■
Writ Hide hall, West Heattle i
Dr. E. J. Brown, csndldste for
the council, has challenged
either Mayor Gill or Council
man C. B. Fitzgerald to dsbate
at his meeting le Dreamland
rink Sunday n' i.
Ole Hanson, who alao will
apeak at the Brown meeting,
challenges Chlsf of Police Louie
M. Lang to be present.
The iHiiuiiiland rink meeting Hun
day night promises to bo one of the
most sensational features of the
campaign. Plans are being made to
hold an overflow meeting, If neces
sary. The Dreamland Is capable of
holding 4,000 people.
Thn whole count ryalde won
dared at her audden disappear
ance. Newspaper* (ought her.
and *he wa* finally dlacove'ed
In Idaho, ao thn alory goe*. In
her wild range landa, rut lim ing
local color for alorlca which were
later to atamp her aa one of the
beat portrayera of Weatcm life.
SHATTI.H, WASH., SATURDAY, MARCH I, 1916.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
EDITOR THE STAR: I have lived In Seattle sfi years, anil In that
time I have never known a public official to have caused so much
littler feeling, haired and scandal aa Hiram Oil! ha*.
I cannot forget the vile attack 011 l made on I>r. Matthew*' charae
ler I.er auoK the doctor dared lo publicly question some apparently ahady
doings of the council of which Mr. 011 l wan president 12 yearn ago.
I would not again stir up the odoriferous hlatorv of Mr. Ollls rec
ord, prior lo his re-all five yeora ago, nor apeak of the many trials to
which he haa subjected ua.
Mr. 011 l could retire today with honor and reapect, not ao much be
cause he deserves It, but because Seattle has been richly generous with
Seattle has glossed over his mistakes, forgiven his bad record, and
even raved over this ordinary lawyer like a tender, loving mother would
sob over her wayward son.
Mr 011 l has been lavishly credited for his so-called reformation
lie haa been extravagantly rewarded by an Infatuated electorate to
such an extent that to add more now would place a premium upon spot
ted < areers and "hut the door In the face of virtue.
Seattle Is destined to be a great world city. Let us forgive, but not
forgr!, th* pRHt.
!*•! iin bury our dlff»*r*ncpn unci Inntiill a clean, hnn«Pt and able
fharacter In the mayor's chair. Yours very truly.
character R „ { , RIK ~,, K , Khth Av(v w . Seattle.
6 HURT IN AUTO CRASH
A stolen auto, whoso driver ea
raped In the darkness, crashed
Into a Jitney bus anil Injured six
persons at 2Hrd ave. and E. 1 nlou
st. KYI day night.
The injuri-d are: II H. Ttowen,
Jitney driver, Internal Injuries and
cut about face and arms; Mrs. A. H.
Nelson. 1107 2»th ave , cut about
face and body; Mrs. A. E. Halo,
Rtlll later ehn went Ka*t and
wna married. I.lttle of her later
life la known t i Heattle people,
aavn her hooka
Iter father, ao far aa It Is
known, Uvea somewhere neiir
H«attle yet. Aci|iialntancea aay
they have aeen mm on the atrect
only recently,
Old friends who knew of hi*
He is a member of the National Academy of
Social and Political Science.
Here you see the deep interest of the man in
municipal problems, in questions affecting labor's
interests, children's interests—the interests of broad
humanity; A MAN WHO WAS COURAGEOUS
ENOUGH lo ADVOCATE WOMAN STE
ERAGE WHEN OTHERS SNEERED AT IT, A
MAN WHO COURAGEOUSLY STUMPED THIS
CITY IN BEHALF OE THE MOTHERS' PEN
SIONS, MINIMUM WAGE LAWS, AND OTHER
MEASURES FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE DURING
THE MEMORABLE CAMPAIGN OE 1912.
His record in the city council has been one
that continually emphasized his desire for efficiency
and service of the general public. So well were
his efforts for economy in city administration
recognized, that Mayor Gill, on the day after the
recent primaries, publicly declared in the Post-ln
telligencer that "there are no issues of importance
between Griffiths and myself; that the tax issue
was settled.
And the tax issue IS settled. There
is no man in public office who has striven
harder to keep taxes down than Griffiths.
Curiously, too, whenever Gill was
mayor, the tax levy reached the highest
rate.
In 1910, when Gill was mayor before,
the tax levy which he signed was 17.90
mills, the highest the city ever had up to
that time.
The next year, a new regime came
into the city government. Griffiths was
one of the new councilmen, and the 1911
tax levy was reduced to 14.65 mills.
In 1912, Griffiths protested against a
higher tax levy, demanded a reduction
of $670,000 from what was proposed,
and when he failed to secure the reduc
tion, he voted against the tax budget. And
so the next year he proposed reductions.
The records are plainly on file at the city
hall.
It was Griffiths who introduced the measure
which extended the time for payment of street as
sessments from five to ten years and reduced the
interest from 7 to 6 per cent so that small home
owners would have a chance to meet the burdens
of taxation more easily.
It was Griffiths, who believing the public en-
172H 2:.th ave , scalp cut, bruised
and cut about body; Miss Mau#l
Patterson. 2423 K. Spring at., cut
and bruised; Miss Hazel l'atterson,
2423 E. Spring St., cut and bruised.
The stolen car belonged to M.
Seeley, 1417 E. Aloha St., and was
taken from In front of his resi
dence In the afternoon. Hoth cars
were ruined In the wreck.
amhltlona for hi* daughter and
who knew oi I disappointment,
aay that hi* eyea i till (how that
dl«appolntmeut.
"The Itanch at Uoi Wolverine"
I* a atory of .omeateadlng In
Idaho The heroine, llllly l<oul*e,
run* the laticli .-he taken earn
of her mother, baalde* tho ardu
OMC rCWT ON THAI*" AW*
I «TAWn«
BALLARD HIGH
'ARMY' DRILLING
With a fighting strength of
?88 men, the Bsllard high
achool "army" has been organ
ized by Lieut. Jacob Bhlck, U.
8. A., retired, and Is drilling
dally.
The "army" Is the result of
the first plan decided upon by
the school board to Introduce
military physical training In
the high schools here Instead
of expending any further sums
on gymnasium equipment.
Lieut. Schick has been employed
at a salary of $1,200 a year to act
as special Instructor, introducing
various phases of military work.
The "army" la not a uniformed
body of boys, with bristling guns.
Its men, however, are engaged In
regular army work, taking the reg
ulation physical setting up exer
cises, building up their bodies for
strenuous work that will come next
summer.
"We want to take the hoys out
to a summer camp." said the lieu
tenant. "where they will net the
fresh nlr and sleep In a tent and
learn to swim."
As soon us Lieut. Shlck gets his
men divided Into squads, he will be
gin putting them thru the Duck's
manual of bar-bell exercises.
These are the same exercises the
regular army man takes with his
gun Instead of a bar-bell.
oua dntlea of branding calve*
and herding cattle
Hhe meet a ami Income* n "pal"
to Ward Warren, a neighbor
rancher, r'attle mailing and gun
play add excitement to the alory.
which la refreablngly full of true
Western life.
There la a great pull for thn
reader to atlck to t m end and
TAJ^T
J-/EDITION Ml
titled to that accommodation, introduced the meas
ure to require the sale of car tickets on street cars
by the conductors instead of making people go to
a lot of trouble to buy them.
He introduced the resolution to take over the
Seattle, Renton & Southern line by condemnation
proceedings—which would have ended the mud
dled condition in the Rainier valley.
It was he who introduced the resolution requir
ing a physical valuation of the gas company's prop
erties so that lower rates might be obtained—and
the So cent minimum has been reduced to 25
cents.
In his broadness and feeling for children, he
got a bill passed to make autos slow up in passing
schools. It was Griffiths also who passed the ordi
nance to compel autos to come to a stop when pas
sengers get off or on street cars.
Believing that bona fide residents of this city
should not be put to the humiliation of arrest for
minor offenses and dragged to jail, he introduced
the bill for the issuance of summons. In this man
ner, a real resident here could be notified that he
must appear in court at a certain time, and, as the
offense is minor, there would be no danger of his
fleeing from the city.
It was Griffiths who wrote the amendment to
the charter to require a minimum wage of 52.75
for city laborers and 4 o give preference to Seattle
residents who are heads of families. (Incidentally,
this law is most outrageously violated under Mayor
Gill in the employment of men in the garbage col
lection department)
It was Griffiths who introduced a bill authoriz
ing the law and labor departments of this city to
furnish legal aid to poor persons in wage disputes.
A man of great energy, willingness to study
and to work, clean, capable, experienced—such is
Austin E. Griffiths, as high a type of citizen as any.
Compare the magnificent record of
Austin E. Griffiths with that of his rival,
Hiram C. Gill. Compare the caliber of
the two men. Compare their public ut
terances — their public achievements.
View them from any standpoint. AND
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS STANDS
HEAD AND SHOULDERS ABOVE HI
GILL.
This is Seattle's opportunity to insure
itself peace and progress with Griffiths.
With Gill, it faces two years of turmoil,
trouble, vile epithets, foul mouthings, do
nothing.
SUGGESTS HE
BE DISMISSED
NEW YORK. March 4.—"lf war
were declared tomorrow, our navy,
under Secretary Daniels, would be
absolutely Impotent to check an In
vasion," ex-Secretary George Von
L. Meyer declares today.
"Our navy." he said, "has no or
ganization prepared to act on a
war footing
"It has no tested war plan
"It has no teßted mobilization
plan.
"There Is no general staff and
no national counsel of defense.
"There are no enlisted reserves
Ammunition Limited
"The navy has only a small sup
ply of ammunition, and there Is a
shortage of enlisted men and of
ficers on practically every fighting
alilp.
"There are no fast cruisers, ex
cept three obsolete ones.
"We have fewer torpedo boat de
stroyers In commission than In re
serve.
Battleship* Feeble
The battleship fleet numbers
lit. It was 21 when Daniels took
office
"Five battleships of the Con
necticut class have demonstrated
that they cannot exceed IS to 15
, knots without danger of breaking
find what become* < Hilly Teniae
and thi! lonely "neater." !>o«»
*h« marry him, or Juat remain a
good friend until the end?
WAIT I NTII, MONDAY AND
riKdIN TO HND 0»!T. THB
NOVKL WIM. HI: fOMPLETB
IN HIX INHTAI.I.MKNTS, HK
GINNINO MONDAY AND END
INQ HATtJRDAY.
their drive shafts.
"Sectetary Drrlels his demoral
ized and disorganized the organiza
tion he found when he took office.
He has not appreciated the condi
tion that the country has faced
since the war broke out.
Meyer ursed authorization of a
general staff, a counsel of defense
and increase of the navy and its
enlistments and the passage of an
act to build four of the speediest
battle cruisers In the world.
"The government," he said, "has
nto even started to lay the keel of
two battleships which the last con
gress auhorlzed. and It takes three
years to build them."
"What if one of these great steel
combinations announced that It
was headed by a man Inexperienc
ed in business, and that his first
act was to disrupt the organiza
tion and put puddlers and husktea
at work crocheting nightcaps in
stead of heaving ingots?
"How many shares of the com
pany's stock would the public buy?
"The analogy and the inference.
1 leave to you 1 do not think It .
would bo seemly In tne to saj Uv"'"
Daniels ought to be
daily since there are iiih^
lit lu my stead." | '
