THE COLFAX CHRIONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
A Democratic ýournal, devotcd to Local and 6Oncral News, Literaturc, Sicnic, & ,griculture, etc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1916. NUMBER 20
FARM DEMONSTRATION WORK
By R. H. Benton, Jr.
AGENT FOR GRANT PARISH I
Three Farmers' M:iss Mhtire-' to be,
Held in Ward 7.
On Friday night March 10,
there will be a meeting of the
citizens of Verda and surround
ing territory in the Verda school 1
building. On the morning of
Saturday. March 11, at 10 a. m.,
there will be a meeting of farm
ers at Hargis. On Saturday af
ternoon, March 11, at 2:30 p. m.,
the citizens of Montgomery and
surrounding territory will meet.
Questions of general interest
to farmers will come up at these
meetings, but more particularly
we will discuss the question of
the hog law and the cost of fence
in ward 7. These mass meetings
are being he d at the request of
a number of the citiz;,s, of ward
7. We may expect talks from
R. H. Benton, Jr., local farm
demonstration agent, Clim W.
Payne. W. R. Jones, and others.
It is requested that all ci:izens of
ward 7 come out and help in the
discussion and give us your fair
opinion of this subject.
Clover Bloat in Cattle.
Last season there was a con
siderable amount of bloating in
cattle as the result of a luxuriant
growth of succulent white clover,
and the animals being turned on
it with free access to it without
revious and gradual preparation.
r rous inquiries already t
received, a d ndition may c
reasonably be anticip this '
spring unless cattle owners fake
the necessary care to prevent it.
A sudden change from dry feed I
after the winter season to a green I
succulent feed of any kind is li
able to cause bloating of cattle.
This is particularly liable to occur
when grazing on white clover,
when it is young and green, or
when it is in full bloom. It rap
idly ferments in the paunch, and
the gas there produced causes
distension of this large stomach
on the left side of the animal,
with the characteristic appear
ance, and general train of symp
toms, familiar to most cattle men.
According to Dr. W. H. Dal
rymple of the department of vet
erinary science, L. S. U., pre
ventive measures always giye the
most satisfactory results in ward
ing off this condition. JWhen first
turning cattle on clover, it should
be done gradually until the di
gestive organs become accustom
ed to the change; and the safest
way is not to permit them to eat
this succulent feed for longer
than twenty minutes to half an I
hour the first day, and increase I
the length of the period each day
afterwards until it seems to have
lost its bloating effect. It is
safer, also, not to turn the cattle
on to this pasture until the dew
or frost has gone off it. Another
method is to give to all the cattle
some dry feed, such as hay, etc.,
before turning them on the clo
ver, which tends to prevent fer
mentation of the green feed.
After a short while, when the
stomach has accomodated itself
to the change from the dry to
the succulent feed, the animals
may consume large quantities of
the latter without apparent in
convenience.-Live Stock Exten
sion Service, L S. U.
Cannot Praise Them Enough.
Many sick and tired women, with
aches and pains, sore muscles and stiff
joints, do not know that their kidneys
aure out of order. Mrs. A. G. Wells,
Box 90, Route 5, Rky .I '" , N. C.,
writes: "I am t:kilig *. Ki in y
Pills and cannot praise tbhem enough
for the wonder;ul ber.nefit I derived in
echa a short while." J. W. Duncan
C..-Adv.
SOlic;al Proceedings of Board of School S
Directors of Parish of Grant. Bo:
CALL FOR BOARD MEETING. of
Pollock, La., Feb. 28, 1916. con
Mr. and
You are advised that a special meet- sai<
ing of the board of school directors of in
the pariah of Grant, La., has been call- Tum
e ed by the president, Hon. J. H. Mc- tior
Neely, to be held at Colfax, La., at 11 pas
a. m. Wednesday, March 1, 1916, for disi
e the purpose of calling an election in elii
Montgomery school district No. 21, to mir
I take the sense of the citizens and prop
f erty taxpayers, qualified to vote in such F
elections, for the issuance of a ten bon
thousand ($10,000.00) dollar bond issue, disi
the net proceeds to accrue from the La.
sale thereof to be used in building and Dol
equipping a school house in the said of e
school district No. 21, and for the pur- the
chasing of a school site, if such should pay
be necessary. ed
By order of the president of the said F
e board, Hon. J. H. McNeely. sch
J. N. WARNER, ans
f Secretary. disi
S
e Colfax, La., March 1, 1916. etc.
8 Pursuant to the above call the board bla
f of school directors of the parish of nal
Grant, Louisiana, met in special ses- tar
Jion and was called to order by the and
president, Hon. J. H. McNeelv, and the for
following members answered to their for
names, to-wit: J. 1I. McNeely, of
ward one; A. W. Stewart, of ward two;
f T. C. ,Lincecum, of ward five; N. S. I
Roberts, of ward six; and M. E. Jack- of 1
son, of ward seven. I. J. Rhinehart, I
of ward three, and E. A. Wall, of ward of
four, being the only members absent. doll
There being a quorum present they sixi
proceeded to transact the following ter,
business: allc
ORDINANCE NO. 7. be
tCreating Montgomery School District bui
No. 21.
isi1
The following ordinance was offered tric
by N. S. Roberts, who moved its adop- Ta,
tion, and it being seconded by M. E. Sig
Jackson was placed before the body by
r the president, abd on roll call it was T
carried unanimously, each and every sut
member of the board present voting (X'
yes, or for the adoption of the resolu- ""y
tion: sim
Be it ordained by the Board of School S
Directors 'of the parish of Grant, Lou- etc
isiana, in special session convened: eleg
Section 1. That Montgomery School the
District No. 21 shall consist of the fol- ($2
lowing territory, to-wit: Sections 15, anc
r 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 27, 28 and 33, the
and fractional sections 20, 29 and 32 ery
r of township 8 north, range 5 west, La. Scd
Meridian. her
Section 2. Be it further ordained, W.
etc., That all ordinances or parts of Ij
ordinances in conflict with the above be anc
I and they are hereby repealed. of
ORDINANCE NO. 8. 1
Mr. M. E. Jackson offered ordinance not
No. 8, who moved its adoption, duly pro
seconded by Mr. Stewart, and it being vot
placed before the board by the presi- I the
dent, J. H. McNeely, A. W. Stewart, bos
- T. C. Lincecum, N. S. Roberts and M. sec
- E. Jackson voted for the adoption of wei
e the ordinance, nays none, whereupon ins
the chair announced the adoption of the the
ordinance by the board by unanimous 1
t vote. the
Whereas, it is necessary that a new Ap
school building be built and equipped at low
Montgomery, Louisiana, in Montgom- the
t ery school district No. 21, and Pal
Whereas, the citizens and property at
taxpayers of the said Montgomery fice
r school district No. 21 have requested tor
1 by petition that the said school building ses
B be built and equipped and a site be pur- anc
chased, if necessary, and ber
Whereas, it is necessary and desira- vae
e ble for funds to be raised for said pur- of
S pose, and san
e Whereas, it is the voluntary will of
Sthis body to.call the election hereinaf- J
r ter provided for, and
Whereas, Article No. 281 of the Con- CEl
e stitution of 1898 and 1913, and Act No.
256 of the legislature of 1910, as amend- ST.
ed by Act 218 of 1912, declare the
school board of the parish to be the 1
governing authority through which the edr
said Montgomery school district No. 21 tri
e may incur debt and issue negotiable inc
f bonds for such purposes, when so au- stil
0 thorized at an election to be held in the tin]
s said Montgomery school district No. 21, are
f and sea
Whereas, the assessed valuation of 1
the said Montgomery school district No. dal
-21 amounts to one hundred thousand
($100,000.00) dollars, and the proposed Se
indebtedness does not exceed the con- r
stitutional limit of 10 per cent of the C
Sassessed valuation, and
Whereas, the special tax necessary As
s to be annually levied to extinguish the CE1
Sproipped indebtedness will approximate
.c- (10) . ills,. whi.h will not exceed i
the cons.ihutioral limit per annum on the
h the dollar of the assessed valuation of As:
Sthe property of said Montgomery school isia
district Noa 21L now, therefore: [las
I Section 1. Be it ordained by the
Board of School Directors of the parish
of Grant, Louisiana, in special session
convened, That an election shall be
and is hereby called to be held in the
said Montgomery school district No. 21
in thR parish of Grant, Louisiana, on
Tuesday. April 11, 1916, at which elec
tion tne majority of the property tax
payers of the said Montgomery school
district No. 21, in number and amount,
eligible to vote and voting, shall deter.
mine the
PROPOSITION
PROPOSITION to incur debt and issue
bonds of the said Montgomery school
district No. 21 in the parish of Grant,
La., to the amount of Ten Thousand
I Dollars ($10,000.00) to run for a period
I of sixteen (16) years, bearing interest at
the rate of five per cent per annum,
I payable annually, the funds thus deriv
ed to be used for the
PURPOSE of building and equipping a
school building at Montgomery, Louisi
ana, in the said Montgomery school
district No. 21.
Section 2. Be it further ordained,
etc., That the ballot box, necessary
blanks and other necessary parapher
nalia, shall be prepared by the secre
tary of the board of school directors,
and he shall cause to be printed ballots
for use in said election in the following
form, to-wit:
FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
PROPOSITION.
To incur debt and issue bonds
of the said Montgomery School ye
District No 21, in Grant par
ish, Louisiana, to the amount
of ten thousand ($10,000.00)
dollars, to run for a period of
sixteen (16) years, bearing in
terest at the rate of five per
cent per annum, payable annu
ally, the funds thus derived to NO
be used for the purpose of
building and equipping a school
building at Montgomery, Lou
isiana, in the said school dis
trict No. 21.
Taxable valuation, $.. ................
Signature of voter ............................
NOTICE TO VOTERS.
To vote in favor of this proposition,
submitted on this ballot, place a cross
(X) mark in the sqnare after the word
"YES." To vote against it, place a
similar mark after the word "NO."
Section 3. Be it further, ordained,
etc., That the compensation of the
election commissioners and the clerk of
the said election shall ne two dollars
($2.00) per day for one day's service,
and that the election shall be held in
the John I. McCain store at Montgom
ery, La., in the said Montgomery
Sc Iol District No. 21, by the officials
herl named, each being a regular voter:
W. 3. Harrison, Dave Mathis and John
I . McCain shall serve as commissioners
and J. M. Wardlow shall serve as clerk
of the said election.
Be it forther ordained, etc.. That
notice of this election containing the
proposition herein submitted to the ex
voters shall be prepared and signed by pa
I the president and the secretary of this
board, and shall be published by the da
secretary in thd official journal by four
f weekly insertions, the date of the first Cl,
i insertion to be thirty (30) days before
s the date of the election.
The said notice shall further recite
that on \Wednesday the 12th day of
r April, 1916, the first day after or fol
t lowing such election, at 12 o'clock m., ev
the Board of School Directors of the mi
Parish of Grant, Louisiana, shall meet h
at the court house at Colfax in the of- as
r fice of the said board of school direc- ab
I tors in said parish, and there in public
session open the ballot box, examinine
and count the ballots both as to 'num- pm
ber and amount, and examine and can
- vass the returns and declare the results
of said election, and promulgate the fia
same. Al
SJ. H. McNEELY, he
J. N. WARNER, President. co'
Secretary.
CERTIFICATE OF BONDED INDEBTED- fo
NESS. Pr
STATE OF LOUISIANA rei
Parish of Grant 19
This certifies that there is no indebt- Pr
Sedness of the Montgomery School Dis- pr
1 trict No. 1, Parish of Grant, Louisiana, wl
Sincurred under Article 281, of the Con- a
stitution of 1898 and 1913, for the ex- ev
Stinguishment of which special taxes th
are by law required annually to be as
sessed. pa
SThis done and signed on this the 1st tir
day of March, 1916. in
SJ. N. WARNER, ha
1 Secretary of the Board of School Di- ex
rectors. Parish of Grant, Louisiana. fri
SCountersigned by en
E. S. MURRELL, ev
SAssessor of Grant Parish, Louisiana hiu
CERTIPCUTE OF THE CLERK OF COURT.ho
AND EX-OFFICIO RECORBDER. Iby
SThis certifies that E. S. Murrell is th
Sthe lawfuily qualified and commissioned r
SAssessor of the Parish of Grant, Lou
I isiana, and that the undersigned is the a
[lawfully qualified and osmnmisdsiced en
You Should Trade at
Peoples Cash Store
1. BECAUSE we sell cheaper.
2. BECAUSE we have the largest and the most complete stock in town.
3. BECAUSE we handle only reliable and depenbable merchandise.
4. BECAUSE our method of doing business-quick sales and small prof
its-enables us to buy in large quantities, and, of course, buy cheaper.
5. BECAUSE we pay highest cash prices for chickens, eggs, butter, and
almost anything you have to sell.
6. THE BEST reason of all is because, on account of the close competi
tion caused by the opening of the People's Cash Store four years ago, Colfax is
one of the best towns in the State to market what you have to sell and to buy
your supplies.
A TOWN where it pays you to come for miles to trade, instead of going
miles to other towns to keep from trading.
A TOWN where you can-market all of your produce in a lump for cash at
market prices, instead of running all over town and selling about half, of it by
the dime's worth and carrying the balance back home.
NOW, IN THE FACE OF THESE FACTS, and
many others we could mention, 'don't you think We.
should share at least a iarge toftion of your valued
patronage?
Think It Over
il- -- -- Il i 1 II m I  1 -; -
In Union" Mercantile Company Buildiagu
Railroad Ave. : Colfax, La.
ex-officio registrar of voters of said
parish.
This done and signed on this the let
day of March, 1916.
JAMES J. O'QUINN,
Clerk of Court and Ex-Officio Recorder
of the Parish of Grant, Louisiana.
How to Prevent Croup.
When the child is subject to attacks
of croup, see to it that he eats a light
evening meal, as an overloaded stomach
may bring on an attack, also watch for
the first symptom-hoarseness, and give
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy as soon
as the child becomes hoarse. Obtain
able everywhere.-Adv.
Why Prince Albert Wins.
Patented Process is Responsible for
Its International Popularity.
Smokers so much appreciate the
flavor and coolness and aroma of Prince
Albert pipe and cigarette tobacco that
they often marvel that this one brand
could be so different from all others.
'The answer to this question is to be
found on the reverse side of every
Prince Albert package, where you will
read: "Process Patented July 30th,
1907." That tells the whole story.
Prince Albert is made by a patented
process that cuts out the bite and parch,
which makes the tobacco so mighty
agreeable and satisfying to men 6f
every taste of every civilized nation on
the globe.
Smokers should realize that this
patented process cost three years~ con
tinuous work and study and a fortund
in money to perfect. But .the result.
has proven to be worth all that was
expended upon it, because it has set
free men who believed they never could
enjoy a pipe or a makin's cigarette. -
Prince Albert makes it possible for
every man to smoke a pipe or to roll
his own cigarettes. And, no mntter
how tender the tongue, Prince Albert
cannot bite or parch. That is cut out
by the patented process, leaving for
the smoker only the joys of the fra
I grant tooacco.
It is a fact that since Prince Albert
S"arrived'.' just about six years ago, it
has made three men smokepipes where
I ae smaked a pipe befor-Adv.'
Cut This Out---It Is Worth NMeay.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclose with be to Foley & (do., Chicago,
Illinois, writing your name and address
clearly. You will receive in "return a
trial package containing Foley's Honey
and'Tar Compound, for lagrippe coughs
colds and croup, Foley Kidney Pills,
and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J. W.
Duncan Co.-Adv.
"Telephone as ,
You'd Be Telephoned Te"
TELEPHONE courtesy ls
just t bit of ordinary
politends and everyday
kindness that we put into
our conversanon when we
tslk by telephone.
Its the face to face brand
of politeness and kindness
used when we're voice to
voice.
'It's the same politeness
and kindness that we hik to
receive from the other end
of the wire.
@G Wng a ittle thought to ta
phone courtesy and practicing
its enphle rules rill snake the
CUMBERLAND telephone an Wn fndre i:.
TELEPHONE & ceta oou "Telpho d
'LEGRAPH CO a Y oud brkTapn .
La-3---"
- j4·.·~'~;E~;~
Has EIbt Chdtfdaa.
Mrs. P. Rebkamp, 2404 Hermaoni.
baington, Ky., writes: "I hay.
using Foley's Honey and Tar for
two years and can nd no better
cough syrup. I have eight chU*
and give it to all of the. They'
subject to co1P from babies on." 1
is a safe and re isble medicine. J. W..
Duncan Co. -Ady.
---- ----- ·----- ----
