OHIO STATE
UNIV.lSlTY
MAf 6 i9io
Jge abor gjgVdvoc die
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
LI
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 46
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MARCH 4, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Stand Pat On Old Gas Rate, Expert King
Recommends in Report To Council
Data Are Insufficient To Justify Change, Chicago Man Concludes After
Investigation. Prompt Payment Discount of Five Cents Instead of
Ten Suggested. Minimum Charge Advised.
"While the present gas rates appear
not to afford a fair return on the capital
invested, no change can be recommended
without more data than is at hand."
This, in substance, is the conclusion
reached by Arthur C. King, Chicago ex
pert, engaged by the city, who, for nearly
nine months, has been making a study of
the property of the Union Gas and Elec
tric Company with a view of submitting
data which arc to form the basis for a
new gas-rate franchise.
Mr. King emphasizes that his final con
clusions are based upon the existing con
tracts for the purchase of gas, "since no
opportunity was afforded for direct in
vestigation of the same."
The present value of the gas plant,
applicable to Cincinnati business, is fixed
by King at $8,010,747.G4, but he states
that to reproduce the company's plant
would cost $9,501,780.17. In the latter fig
ure is included the overhead charges.
Allowance For Developing Business.
King also calls attention to the fact
that an allowance must be made for de
veloping business, and gives the present
company's outlay for this work at $250,
284, which was spent in the eight years
between January 1, 1907, and January 1,
1915,
He fixes the earning value at $8,320,
709.C4. On this capitalization, King contends
that 7 per cent would be a fair net re
turn and would yield the comnanv $582.-
.873-B7--.whi;h.'.vWith-.:'ncst;T.ate'I ssttrv:-
for depreciation of $191,584.70, would re
turn net earnings of $774,458.57.
King also recommends that a reason
able minimum charge be allowed for gas
service, the same as is allowed for elec
tricity. He estimates that 44 cents a
month would be a fair charge and makes
the assertion that Public Utilities Com
missions throughout the country sustain
him in his contention as to the cquitablc
ness of such a charge. There is no mini
mum charge for gas at the present time,
and the result is, he states, that a large
number of consumers use not more than
18 cents worth of gas (luring the month,
while the overhead charge to the com
pany on each meter is approximately 20
cents a month.
"It appears to me," said Mr. King,
"that the present rales do not afford
what is ordinarily considered a fair rate
of return, if the local company alone is
considered ; but owing to the close cor
porate relationship no change in rate
can be recommended without more data
than are at hand.
Assumption As To Prolits.
"It must be assumed that the Colum
bia Company has been receiving at least
a fair profit on the gas it sells to the
Union Company, as well as any profit
made by the local company through its
stock ownership, since this contract was
made before the present relationship ex
isted, and since the present rate was
offered voluntarily by the Cincinnati Gas
and Electric Company. Although the
request has been made, no data bearing
directly on the question has been sub
mitted by the Columbia Company.
"If any general increase in the pres
ent rate is contemplated it should be
borne in mind that such increase will
result in some loss of business, particu
larly among the large consumers who
now use gas rather than coal, so that
the net earnings will not be increased
in proportion to the change in rate.
This effect is, of course, opposite to the
increased volume of business secured by
the reduction in rale.
"Since the controlling company is evi
dently making a profit on the sales of
the local company, as well as receiving
whatever net gains may accrue from the
distribution of gas by the local com
pany, it is evident that it is better for
the combined companies to be satisfied
with a rate which may not bring the
theoretically sufficient return to the lo
cal company considered alone, than to
demand an increase which may wipe out
by loss of business more than the antici
pated gain in earnings.
"Public Also Jlinlit Sillier."
"In the event of increase the public
also might suffer by being deprived
of service at a reasonable cost.
"Attention is directed to the fact that
the prompt payment discount of 10
cents per 1 ,()()() cubic feet is higher
a DDE
BAR MILITIA
FROM STRIKES
Labor's Chief Demand in Fed
eralizing National Guard.
The Building Trades Council
Receives a Reply From Governor Willis, Who Encloses
a List of Questions Answered By the Brockway
Plumbing and Supply Company in March, 1915, But
Subsequently Broken and Scabs From West Virginia
Are Building Ohio Armories.
Senator Pomerene Says He Will Vote For the Burnett
Bill New Contract With Employers' Association To
Be Taken Up Next Week.
WASHINGTON, February 28. Samuel
Gompers, president of the American Federa
tion of Labor, has issued a statement summar
izing labor's demands with regard to Wilson's
militia plan. These are:
That the plan to "Federalize" the
State militia must include a. prohibition-?
"3T itsTuftlier use in the suppression of
strikes.
That the burden of Costs for increas
ing armament must be distributed
equally among all classes; instead of
bearing most heavily on the wage
earners and consumers, as heretofore.
This statement was given out at the con
clusion of a six-day conference of labor leaders
from all sections of the country. Mr. Gompers
left no doubt as to labor's attitude toward
defense. "A people unwilling to defend the
institutions of self-government are not worthy
of a republic," he declared.
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order last Thurs
day night by President Cullen. The
minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
A communication from the Painters'
District Council No. 12 named Leslie
l Simpkins as a delegate to the Council.
A similar communication from the In
ternational Union of Steam ind Oper
, ating Engineers No. 114 sent in the
I name of Lou Rouse as a delegate from
that body. Bother brothers being pres-
cut, they were duly obligated,
j The following communication between
the Council and Governor Willis, in re
I lation to the State hiring scab labor
! from Huntington, W. Va., to work on
, Ohio State armories, was read :
Building Trades Council.
Cincinnati, O., Feb. 2G, 191G.
Honorable Frank B. Willis, Governor,
State of Ohio, Columbus, Ohio:
Dear Sir I have been instructed by
the Building Trades Council of this city
to write you and request ot you the em
C
pan
Brockway Plumbing & Supply Co.
Pomeroy, Ohio, March 4, 1915.
Mr. Karl I. Best, Architect, Ohio State
Armory Board, Columbus, O.
Dear Sir We are in receipt of yours
of the 1st inst., the contents of which
are as follows :
1. Have you an established place of
business in the State of Ohio?
2. Are you taxpayers in this State?
.'). Do you employ union labor in your
work in this State?
4. Do you pay the Ohio State work
men's compensation insurance?
5. Do you pay the full union scale of
your work?
1. We have an established place of
business. We are located at Pomeroy,
Ohio.
2. We are taxpayers in this State. We
refer you to the auditor of Meigs County.
3. We do employ union labor.
4. We do pay the Ohio workmen's
ployment'of contractors who are located compensation insurance. We reter you
state, and wno employ union ia- ""- """" ..u..u...
scch buildings -us coinc- iinder, 5. We do pay the full union scale, if
it may be ot interest to you, we might
mention that two-thirds of our employes
in our
i. -
jr on
vour Jurisdiction.
There is a company by the name of
The Brockway Plumbing & Heating Co.,
located at Huntington, W. Va., doing
considerable work on our State armories.
This company does not employ union
men and they arc not in any way con
tributors to the maintenance of our
State government.
Our slogan here, is patronize home m
dustries. If this is good for our city,
it no doubt would be equally good to
have the same slogan for our State, and
that is, patronize Ohio industries.
Trusting you will give this your favor
able consideration, we beg to remain,
Yours very truly,
Cincinnati Building Trades Council.
Fred Hock, Secretary.
are paid beyond the union scale.
Trusting the above will give you the
information desired, we beg to remain,
Brockway Plumbing and Supply Co.
By Geo. Eichert, Vice-Pres.
than usually prevails. The effect of
this is to impose an undue burden on
such consumers as are unfortunate
enough, either by force of circumstances
or through oversight, to allow the dis
count period to lapse. The amount of
revenue derived from this source is not
large and a reduction by the company
of the penalty to fl cents would not ma-
that appertaining to the gas business, ex
cept in some instances where property
and buildings are used jointly by the gas
and electrical departments it was valued
as a whole and then apportioned on the
basis of its relative use. Property used
for furnishing gas outside the limits of
the citv was not included in the valua
Hicksville, Ohio, October 15, 1915.
Ohio State Armory Board, Columbus,
Ohio:
Gentlemen With reference to your
inquiry regarding union labor on the
Akron armory, we wish to advise you
that if we are awarded this contract, that
we will use nothing but union labor on
the job.
Yours respectfully,
The Clfmmer & Johnson Co.
By J. H. Clemmer.
It will be noted that the date on the
Brockway Plumbing & Supply Co. let
terhead is March 4, 1915, and at that
STATE or OHIO.
Executive Department.
Columbus, February 2S, 1910.
Mr. Fred Nock. Secreta
Buildiiu: Trades Coun
I welt tli street, Cincinnati, u. ; b whether this knowl
n.'.ir Mr. Hock I am m receipt of ... ,. ,...., ., .
".-'. . ' . time they were fair and used union la
etary, Cincinnati , bori but s.(jce t,at time they ,)ave vio.
ouncil. iNo. -.) ii. atcj tj)ejr contract w;tii union labor and
vour letter relative to the letting of con
tracts by the State. I agree with your
proposition that so far as possible con
tracts should be let to Ohio contractors
and to those who are fair with labor
find linnnrnblc in all their dealings. I
edge has reached the governor or not
we do not know.
It was moved, seconded and carried
that the correspondence be forwarded to
T. H. Mugavin, secretary of the Ohio
State Building Trades Council.
The following communication trom
V, r . r.-. ine loiiowmy iuiiiiiiuiiu.auuii wuiu
note especially your reference to a Inn g A , Pomerene was read and
. ...l.:l. l.rt A i-t,in-i UnrH line rprplltlV
linn lint u'licrc nrnnertv ill tile fltv IS
teriallv reduce the earnings or increase used for furnishing gas to consumers in to which the Armory Board has recently .-, . .
.1 ." -.... 1! ... 11.1 . , . .. !.i" - II , . - I. 1 J..II l...'.t lli.'i nt nnivi . llllu '
uie average ouisiaiiuing aecuiniis, aim uie city and io ouisuic consumers as wen, let some wui k. i mi. m nuns "" ' """
such reduction is therefore recom- I an apportionment was made by which the to the attention of the Armory Board,
mended. city business was charged only with its with the recommendation that in the let
Explaining why he considers 7 per cent , just share ot the plant investment
a ar rem mi me mvcsimcm, ivi..K , TIle rc,)ort rcv,ews the History ot gas ,goou ' '"; "' X?" "& Dear Friend and Constituent-1 re-
'?.' , r i ' Cincinnati trom ib.ii, wuen inc cm- "-- inciin."",
While 8 per cent seems to be fairly ,;,,.,.: r,:is l.iVlit nml Coke Comnanv I done under the law.
United States Senate.
Columbus. O.. February 29. 1910.
i ting of contracts, Ohio contractors, on I M F , H , Cincinnati, Ohio:
well nxeci in electric cases as an adequate ,,.nc :llrnrnnrnii.d In- :m net nf t in h-ms
return, the general allowance for gas is 7 I iatUre. down to the present time. This
history shows that the first rate charged
to x per cent where local artificial utili
ties are concerned. In the present in
stance, if the relationship of the com
panies could be disregarded and a rate
of return fixed for the Union Company
alone, it is believed that 7 per cent would
be a fair amount, considering the inclu
sion of non-operating property, How-
Yours very respectfully,
Frank B. Wilms.
for artificial
cubic feet.
gas was $:i.5l per 1,(100
Council To (Jet Keport.
The report will be submitted to Coun
cil and will be referred to the Com
mittee on Light. Action on the report
ever, in living a rate of return for the ' must be taken within the next few weeks,
present case it must be remembered that 'because, if a new rate is not agreed upon
any earnings based on the valuation of i before March !!(), a new temporary rate
the local property will accrue in large
part to the Columbia Company through
1 its control of the Union Company, as
, well as through sales of gas to the lat-
ter."
1 Value of Physical Property.
King calls attention to the fact that
j the "present" value of the physical prop
erty, as defined by the Ohio public utili
ties laws, means the cost of producing
the property new at the present time, less
j the depreciation it has suffered from the
new valuation.
The property valued, he said, was only
ordinance again will nave to ne passed
by Council. The company lias been op
erating under a temporary rate ordi
nance since the old franchise expired
December ISO, 1915.
The new rate must be accepted by the
Gas Company before it will become ef
fective. If the company refuses the rate
fixed by Council it can take an appeal
to the State Public Utilities Commis
sion, as was done in the instance of the
electric rate. The rate fixed by Coun
cil is also subject to referendum to the
voters.
Ohio State Ar.morv Board.
ori'icr. or the secretary.
Columbus, February 2S, 1910.
Governor Frank B. Willis, Columbus,
Ohio:
Dear Sir We have the honor to ad
vise you in reference to employment ot
ceived your letter, in support of the
pending immigration bill, and wish to
say by way of reply that I expect to
vote for it when it comes before the
Senate. I have voted for this bill both
times it has come before the Senate and
do not know of any reason why I should
change my mind now. I believe there
arc many wise provisions in the bill and
that on "the whole, it will prove a long
j-tep forward in the solution of our hn
migration problems if it is written into
law. Sincerely yours,
Atlee Pomerene.
:., ll.rt .. QlMt. i-rmtrrirlc Wi
liuil-lllliuil ninvii un .ji.nv ..w.,v...w. .. - .
herewith inclose letter received from the Secretary Hock read his report for the
Brockway Plumbing Co., also letter from week, which was ordered filed.
The Clemmer & Johnson Co., who are All trades reported business good,
contractors for the Akron armory. j Under good and welfare of the Coun
It has always been our policy, when-!eil, President Cullen requested all the
ever it is possible to do so, to recom- j delegates to be present at the next meet
mend the employment of union labor, I ing, as the tentative agreement with the
and all firms doing work for the Arm-' Building Employers Association was to
ory Board are investigated by the State come up.
architect, as shown by the enclosed let- President Cullen explained the docu
ters. Yours respectfully, ment at length and impressed all crafts
Ohio State Armory Board. to have their delegates present next
Per F. S. Brvant. Thursday night.
