33
THE MENACE, No- 25i---ffi&B$
9 ,m Sheppard and John L.
McNatt. at Toplin, Mo., in The Menace case should be in the hands of every voter. " No
more able dciensc of free speech and free press; no more terrific and truthful arraignment of
infamous Rome, was ever made than was voiced in these addresses. No better "awakcnctV
than these speeches have ever appeared and we urge that you cct the papers NOW. The regu
lar bundle rates apply, 50 copies to one address, 25c; 100 copies, JOc; 500 copies, 2.25.
ORDER A BUNDLE OF 500 TODAY!
1H
Awrora, swiaeansl
ffi33333333333E3333B z
' r JeL TWt It Number 254 W
.'1017 ROME IS WARRING ON
DEMOCRACY AT CAPITAL
law aanrtlM aa mil hit, i.l mi aaliaWa. araarhU-
IM hkiik 'Mini, ar arvli IM Inn af i 1 1 i mf mt tee l
fwt iaBaM a ska fiana! C tiiaiiaa.
"ll a-a, . .i t n n m.milwi J awawaiaaa la UU mMi, (Wat
tuM m IraMr if hi. aftte eaa rMi4 kt inula inn. aa ail i a. e-ta
nn i anl n Nr K i in ikat nafcc eaa IM aa la mi raif.Ur a s 1 n 1 1 as
a a a.rUa. tmm CmiIii ml unit, N W tta aim,' Oiaiallaf J, .at.
an la tiaaaiiia) aa iainm Law "
' IH.r . to ua iraui a4 all rW.ri.ra. tl hiUiIImi mrrlmtmc M aat.ai.
n M. aclaclpUa W aJt ImMm aaariHr mm4 ikrav IKw axk IMr n in i il I n in
If Itof kava mm w.m.aklia . i nxhUartr rnrka iMa Ml af aatetaare aa aala Ma
a a arlaili a la laatr etaa." Waa, W Msaa la ?ka Siala.
Dear Friend, Iat week we called your attention to Rome three
great armies that aiw fighting in the inttrrt of politico-n liniati al Ho
tuanism in America today The Knit.t of Columbus, The American
Federation of Catholic Si tic and the Jesuit.
This wek we wii.li to tiotHt the supreme effort olitiial Rmanim
is making to strike down the patriotic press by legielation that would
lodge dec pot ic power in the handa tf an appointive officer, thin substi
tuting the autocracy of bureaucratic rule ao dear to the pope of Home and
tho rzar of Kuteia, for the time honored democratic system of trial by
Judge and jury.
I Wo re pointing out how fatal in iharac ter ia thia blow at npular
ri;ht we wish to ark you if you have written to your congronoman at Mr.
Nation, your league' vice-president, urged you to do in The Menace
far February l!th. If not, do not fail to read hit stirring appeal iu thia
usue and then art without an hour delay.
Our Leader on Guard at Washington
Mr. Nationa i an able lawyer, careful, conwrvative and conscien
tious, with mind trained to weigh evidence, sturdy conscienee-piided
patriot of the Lincoln type. lie i devoting hi entire time to combating
jiolitical Komaniatu at our nation' capital and ii doing a iplendid work
in the high interest of popular right and fundamental democracy, lit
ttft the deadly peril of the prrtrnl hour and i calling to you to Jo your
duty. Are you anewrrintj that call in the tpirit of Hancock, Adame, Oti
end Warren t
In a great criai like the present no sacrifice in too great to make for
the cause. Now listen 1 After you have written your congmwman and
ptnatora, go and ace at least two of your mot influential friend who be
lieve in jealously maintaining otir free institution and mvure their
pledge to immediately write to their coiigrecninan protecting agaiimt
theae bill.
Thia ia mot urgent, for the Roman Catholic paper have been in
sistent in their effort to make it appear that there ia a general demand
for thia legislation by urging their people everywhere to write to their
congressmen. Do not let it be taiJ that you failed in your duty to the
Republic at this grate criri.
Now let o conaider the Fitrgerald (I1RCI68) Hill. The Siegcl
Bill while containing the tame offensive autocratic features as the other
measure ia ao bald, crass and absurd that it is far less dangerous thnn the
f no introduced by the Brooklyn congressman and since the Roman Cath
olic are apparently concentrating their effort in favor of t lie Fitzgerald
Bill we will concern ourselves with this measure.
Un-American and Subversive Legislation
If any man doubt thnt Roman Catholic politicians owe their first
allegiance to Rome, or thnt the papal theory is not in direct pjosition to
the spirit, teaching, and practice nt our Democratic government let him
ftndy the present war waged by tho representative of the Roman Cnth
ilic hierarchy in our national government upon the patriotic press of
America. Here he will se the papal force in congress backed by tVo
Roman prca and the Roman Catholic orimnization ARK AdfJRKS
SIVKLY ATTACK IN (5 TWO PROVISIONS OF OCR DEMO
CRATIC (iOVKRNMKNT, TRIAL BY JURY AND TI1K CONSTI
TUTIONAL GUARANTEES OF FREEDOM OF PRESS AND
FREEDOM OF RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION. This U startling, is it
not? Yet it ia absolutely true.
At Home wars on our public schools, so she is warring on our free
press and so also she is u arcing on trial by jury. Here are the pimple
facta.
Our government provides that in alleged offenses such as arc set
forth in the FiUgerald bill the accused shall be tried before a judge
and a jury of hi peers. That is sound democratic doctrine but il is doc
trine that despotic rttlers, governments and hierarchies have always op
posed, and this iniquitous bill would give the arbitrary power of a Rus
sian bureaucrat to tho postmaster general, by which he could destroy a
great legitimate business, and one which inicht be doing a work vital to
the very life of free institutions, WITHOUT THE WRONGED PART
IES HAVING- FIRST THE OPPORTUNITY TO PROVE THEIR
INNOCENCE.
This bill is not only in perfect accord in spirit and letter with the
mobt despotic goTernmenta of the old world but it is also in harmony with
the theory of government held by the papal sovereigns on the Tiber since
before the days of the Inquisition down to the present hour, and on the
other hand it i in direct opposition to our democratic government. .Voic
srfcicfc ray do you rant our government to face, touard
Despotism or Democracy?
Last year when political Romanism was working desperately to se
cure the passage of the FiUgerald bill, or another Roman Catholic
Measure similar in general character, Congressman David E. Finley, of
South Carolina, opposed the bill before the committee on post offices and
port roads as subversive in character and opposed to popular right and
democratic theory. In the course of his broad and statesman like re
markshesaid: -Tka aowar that l ar.Baara ta ba lodraa la tba Hands of tba poatiaaatrr r.nml aaaVr
"TTJi 'Ur ena awa la all this country. It
khoaM aot ka laft tka aarlaloa i(iwom bub, and na aa maratira oftVar apnolntaa by
aotbar asaa. 8a tM. pnn.uaaH aawmlnMnt. tf yoa analyaa It. ataaaa aolna War la a
man ta taa aaalUaa lava aa fwambar that Um axarotioa of Urn, law. mat a
araat paNtleal pmrlV. aallaata a a iaar that umdant aa araa xK at tm
happana ta aa poataiaatar .trml at tha Um. la ahanlataljr ooDclatir o( what al and hal
Is not objartioaabla aaoar tha prop 01 4 amaadrorat."
At the aame hearing Congressman J. A. Falconer, of the state of
, Washington, opposed the bills, because, as he pointed out,
-TVs aasaam law sawara tha point abar anraaa hs saads thia kind of Htaratnra
Uroaali tha auU la aubjart to tha aaaaitlas al tba laws bow oa tha Mama books.''
Perhaps nothing at the hearing was more illuminating than some
of the questions put by Hon. J. A. Moon of Tennessee, the chairman of
the committee, to the author of one of the bills. .
Aa for example the following:
"Ar sot tha roarU ml thia cooatry epaa for that rarpoaa and caa not tha all b.
nratartadT Whn a man ararstapa tha baamaa of ferUioMla frr. araarh. caa aot tha coaru
aaala tita wtthoat tha latarraatiaa af caaa-raaa by aa art af this aort T"
"Is It aot bauar If thara ba any wroa- ar Injary avna by publtratloaa or othanrlaa k.
aay sort af aa arsaaliatloa or ladlrldaal that tha ladlvtdaal or orysnltatioa UhmmZ
atttad aa thoy aow am tha rWht to do. to sup lata tha aoarU for protartloa and tnU.
catloa. rathar thaa liraoaa tha arbitrary artloa of a gu.ainai.iit oflViaL and onorWII mmZm
that aetioa Is ooa.fi W ta tha juajaiat af atnala ladlrklya(r -Pmrnir baa
Here in these brief statements and questions by three congressmen
we aee emphasized the startling difference between the renresenutivea f
I democratic government and those who stand for the despotism of bureauc
racy ana wno are loyaj to me system 01 me papal sovereign on tha Tiber.
Patriot of America art yce ready to exchange trial by jury for a system
MORE LETTERS JO CONGRESSMEN
Pending Dills Lay Papal Knife to Throat off Liberty Every
Patriot Should Write Strong Protest
SERIOUS IVORK FOR THE
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
v. . umu Bi axao
nil HISS DEFENSE LEAGUE
caaiar O. M ATI on a.
tl Taaab atrarl St. B.
C
Ertry patriot most understand tha jrarlty of tha situation ia Congress. Tha ritzgnaJd
Post Bill known MH.R. 64C8 tvnd tha filegtl PoaUl BUI known u H. &. 491 wera lntro
duc4 by CoagTmn from GreaUr Ntw York for th svowad and delibarU purpoaa of
deitroyixi patriotiA papara by htrinf tha portmaxtar-g tnersi to txclnda from tha mailt. Under
these bills the great Protestant church paperi would hardly dare to criticise the Soman
Catholic political system. The measures disclose the desperate determination of the papal
hierarchy as expressed through the mighty Reman Catholio Tammany Ball that has so long
and shamelessly plundered and debauched Mew York.
That great city alone has twenty representatives and one senator in congress each of
whom is a clever and adroit politician supported by vast wealth and power. Most of them
are Roman Catholics and practically all must serve the Soman Catholic political machine.
With scores of members from other gTeat Som&n Catholic cities and rural districts they are
deeply resolved that these nn-Amencan bills shall be enacted into laws. Romanist press and
prelates are rejoicing at the prospect of taring all pstriotlo papers silenced and destroyed
without trial or opportunity to make defense. They fully believe their success in this matter
would cause the whole patriotic movement to fall prostrate at the feet of the Soman hier
archy. To prevent this every member of con&Tess must receive without delay a pyramid of
letters from his Protestant and patriotic constituents, demanding that he shall use every en
deavor to have these bills overwhelmingly defeated. We must not delay. The time to act is
while the bills are yet In committee. After the committee makes favorable report on such a
measure it is virtually impossible to prevent Its passage.
Write immediately. Many letters have already reached congressmen in response to my
recent appeal, but there ought to be a million more. Let churches and patriotic organizations
throughout the country also send in a flood of letters and petitions and strong resolutions. All
communications should be addressed to the congressman from your district and the two sen
ators from your state. Letters will be delivered if simply addressed to them by name at
Washington, D. C, with the words "Member of Congress" or "Senator," as the case requires,
written on the envelope. Letters should be brief, terse and strong.
Make congress feel deeply that the nation Is aroused and expects every dtixen to do bis
full duty. These bills can be defeated in spite of Rome's mighty organisation and herculean
efforts if every man and woman who loves our liberties and favors freedom of speech and of
the press will take immediate and vigorous action.
GILBERT 0. NATIONS.
MEDDLING PRIEST BREAKS UP FAMILY
Husband Too Good a Papist to Abide by American Law Deserts Bride to
Comply With Priestly Dictation Divorce the Only Recourse of Aban
doned Wife Home Wrecked in the Clash of American Law With
the Matrimonial Decrees of Papal Rome
Continued on Tage 2, CoL 3)
Macon, Ga, Feb. 21. On the ground that her husband deserted her when she refused to be re
married by a Catholic priest, Mrs. Edith Mae Boifeuillet, wife of Frank Boifeuillet, was granted a
total divorce in the Bibb Superior Court.
Mrs. Boifeuillet swore on the stand that priests convinced her husband five months after the wed
ding that he was not properly married, and that the ceremony would have to be performed by the
Catholic church. She refused, and the separation followed. Boifeuillet entered no denial of the
charges. From New York American of Feb. 21, 1916.
HE KXICnTS OF CO
LUMBUS had hardly fair
ly launched their nation-wide
campaign to chloroform the
intelligence of the more than eighty
million non-Roman Catholics in
this land ty making it appear that
the Koman Catholics are singularly
free frwni bigotry, intoleram-e and
religious prejudu-e, when I one Ben-
edit t, wUo sveni to bate an un
happy faculty fr doing things at
inopportune moments, gave the
world a "horrible example" of re
ligious bigotry, intolerance, and
reckless dxtregard for the feeling
of the trenty million Methodists,
Baptists, Presbyterian and Luther
ans of America.
The pope on his iity-firt birth
day, which occurred on the twenty-
first of last November, in the course
of a pastoral address to the Society
for the Preservation of the Faith
took occasion to denounce the il
lustrioua scholars and God fearing
men and women whom the Protes
tant churches of America had sent
to preach the Word in Home as
"LIARS,- THIEVES" AND
"EMISSARIES OF SATAN."
We can well imagine the conster
nation that must have reigned in
the councils of the Committee on
Religious Prejudice of the Knights
of lolutnhua when it was found
that The Pilot, the Roman Catholic
organ of Cardinal O'Connell'a dio
cese, had spread before the Ameri
can peoplo the verbatim utterance
of Tope Benedict embodying the
above characterization of the great
Protestant divines, who have been
sent to Rome by the leading Chris
tian denominations of America, for
it was not exactly the kind of an
example of religious amity, tolera'
tion and the sweet spirit of brother-
hood which the lecturers of the
Committee on Religious Prejudice
had been striving to make the Trot
estanta beliero was characteristic of
Rome.
Think for a moment how. you
would have felt had you been a
member of the Roman Catholic
Chloroform Committee, alias Com
mittee on Religious Prejudice, when
you found that Cardinal O'Con-
nelrs paper had published the fact
that the present pope in so many
words had called the representatives
Tba prras rtispalfh, printed herewith, should fi" tha
candid rsader mum conception of tba influcaco and fleet (
Komnn Catholicism and its meddling priests upon Americas
home life. Here is a couple, legally married, who night
hare lived bippily had it not beta for the offioiooi inter
ference of tbeae peUieoated bachelor who told the) kushend
that marriaff according to American law ia ao auThaf
whatever. They insisted, aa the faker of their profmsioa
always do, that to be married, he must have tha ceremony
performed by an agent of Borne.
And the man, if it be proper to call him a man. had
probably been prepared from youth for such pernicious
counsel. It ia likely that his bewildered mind had bee
receptacle for BomUh superstitions from childhood. In tha
effort to become a dutiful child of tha "only true faith" bo
had renounced reason and had become Incapable of thinking
for himself. Ho had reached that stag of papist perfec
tion in which obedience to tho priests ia a greater virtue
thaa loyalty to a legally wedded wife; and ia which tha
rank regulationa of Koine take precedence over the law
of the land.
Aa for tho womaa ia tho case, aha must bo credited
with good faith and good era In not leas thaa three par
ticulars: first, by adhering honestly and faithfullr to her
legal marriage aa long at possible; seeoad, by refusing to
participate in the mockery of a second wedding; and third,
hr seeking legal epertioa from the faithless) dupe who ao
shamefully abandoned her.
All this may astonish those who are not acquainted with
the real nature of the so-called church of Borne. The coward
ly acts of husband and prieita are ao brutal aa to arouse
the resentment of all honest aad conscientious people. But
it should bo remembered that ia doing aa they did, tho dupo
and the agents of popery were consistently obeying the laws
of tha monarchy whi:h they imagine to bo a church.
It is a dogma fundamental to BomUh teaching aad
practice that marriage ia a sacrament, aad that sacraments
can be administered by no other authority than that of tha
Bom an Catholic organization. Thia organisation ia ruled by
a pope who claims authority from supernatural sources to
dictate infallibly concerning faith and morals.
Ones admit the validity' of such extravagant claims, and
the pope, through hia bureaneratie subordinates, becomes a
dictator ia matrimonial matter u well aa in practically
everything else, sine the term morals is so inclusive aa to
embrace practically everything. It is difficult to eoneeirn of
anything or any act which cannot bo classed as moral or
aa immoral aad therefor subject to approval or rejoctioa by
moral authority. 4
This little incident nt Macon, Georgia, is only one nf a
million Instance in which Romanian nnd Americanism are
clashing every day in thia country. American law had yive
Mrs. BoifeuiUet a busbaad whom Bora sal law took aay from
her. American law had then to rrrsrss it own act to relievo '
tha lady from an intolerable condition for which neither she) .
nor tha law of tha laad was ta blame. Tha trouble raaa
from tba interfereacw of Bomish law and priests.
- Will asm apologist for popery pleas rise and tell ta
what ta to be Ue taoase af aaeh saedilinff aw thisf Can
Oa law of Russia or Japan be set p In this country to
the nullification of our own statutes t Would anyone stand
for such a thing! And yet this Italian gentleman with a
three-storied crow a ia privileged to hand down decrees from
what he calls the throne of H. Peter that not only conflict
with tho law of this nation aad these states, but aim
separate wives from their husbands, and may effect evils
mora serious ia ease Bomish power becomes greater.
Tha American citizen must be deaf, dumb and Mind,
not to hear, sea, aad pro tost against such aa invasion of legal
right by a foreign monarch-manipulated corporatioa that
sevka to own and rule tha world. Thia aajoa arrogant papal
system, which would not loav Mr. and Mrs. Boifeuillet to
live in peace aa man and wife, is also thrusting it meddle
some agVot in between tho people of this country aad their
system of publie edocatioa.
Thee "moral" henchmen of a would-be ruler of the
world weep great crocodile tear over tha divorce evil j hut they
are not only active ia the aeparatioa of thia couple they are
abo striving strenuously to separata the American people
from popular education. And all to tho end that all must
ba married by Soma and tha United State government be
wedded to popery, tha scar let womaa of Babyloa.
Aad thia happened ia Georgia where tha hypocrites ara
intent upon railroading Thomas . Watsoa to prison oa the
lying pretext that he baa done something inimical to publie
morals. Just think of these pions home destroyers raising
their hooks ia holy horror at the monstrous c If esse of
printing something I
The hollow mockery, of papist pretentions to Interest
in morals, is exceeded only by tha devilish ingenuity with
which Borne operates to overthrow America institution aad
plant debasing superstitioa upon tha ruins, llow maay of
those pseudo-Protestants, who profess such admiratioa for the
Koman t'ntholie chsrch, relish Borne 'a denial of their Prot
estant snarriagf How maay of thoa who ar ia different to
papal meddling in American politic will harry to soma priest
to have their marriage made over according to papal plana
ana specinealtonsT
Let na ba consistent. If Boma ia right ia regard t
tnese tnings so fundamental to national and individual wel
fare, the thing to do is to back up like China, repudiate the
Declaration of Independence, repeal tha federal eoastitutioa
aad' tha democratic constitution of tha states, nod go ia
for a pope-appointed monarch who will rule this country ia
keeping with instructions from the Infallible throne in the
Vatican.
Anyhow, let discover, each for himself, oa which aid
af thia great world question we belong. If you ar ready
to receive your opinions, your religion, your politics, aad
even your wives by papal permission, gt into tha holy,
apostolic, hyperbolic fold without delay aad cease to talk
about being a free eitixea of a free country.
But if, oa the other hand, yon still feel some faith la
tha proposition that all government receive their just power
from tha consent of tha governed ; that you prefer a voir
in the laws by waica jam ar governed i that prefer
progress to reaction and human brotherhood to papal p.
ternsiisDs, then speak a word for democracy and defend the
democratic institutions of ear country turn Ha insidious and
most dangerous enemy, tha papal system.
of the grest Protestant bodies of
America in Rome, lars "(aim
snd "emissaries of Satan."
Now if it had been a fourth de
gree Knight of Columbus, a Bo-
man Catholic bishop or even a card
inal who had thus indulged in lan
guagewe almost said billingsgate
the situation would not be ao em-
barrasing because the good knights
and their Jesuitical companions
could urge, as is their wont, that
only the ope, when ho speaha as
the paxtor of a flot k. is "lniaJuble
snd irrvformable." But alas, here
waa Pope Benedict speaking a the
pastor of the flock and using lan
guage that might not hare been sur
prising if it had come from Lon
don fiidiwivcs, but certainly is not
what we have a right to expect from
a religious leader who pn tends to
follow thst One who taught thst all
men were brothers end that he whe
called his brother s liar was in dan
ger of kell fire.
"LIAKS. "THIEVES" and
"EMISSARIES OP SATAN."
There is language that reveals most
eloquently the spirit of Rome,
There in this "infallible" end "irre
formablew utterance of Pope Bene
dict tre tee the tarns tpirit of intal
erant bigotry which flamed forlX
during the days of the Inquisition.
"Liars." "thieves" and emisar.
ies of Satan." there is language that
should arouse to instant and indig
nant protest every Chnstian man
and woman worthy of the great
leaders of Protestant Christianty,
Martin Luther, John Calvin, John
Wesley and Roger Williams.
Now at the risk of being regarded
impertinent, by the Knights of Co
lumbus, we can sot refrain from
suggesting, aerinnsly suggesting,
that they forthwith send to Rome
Botirke Cochran, Cardinal O'Con
nell and other distinguished lights
who have been so studiously labor
ing to prove to America that the
Roman churrh is not tainted with
bigotry, intolerance or religious
prejudice. And that the gentle
men be instructed to labor with liis
Holiness, Pope Benedict, and strive
to show him how difficult he is
making the work of the Knight
and the Jesuits by speaking his
true sentiments at so inopportune a
moment.
More Meddling
Chicago Knights of Columbus
seem to be profoundly interested in
legislation a fleeting the District of
Columbia. We have a circular let
ter iesued from that eity and signed
by E. J. Steiger, recording secretary
of Tonti Council No. 1567, Knights
of Columbus, in which the recipient
is urged to write congressmen and
senators urging their support for
bills already introduced to make
Oct 12 a legal holiday to be known
as Columbus Day in the District of
Columbia.
And bo it is that Sir Knight
Steiger, of 4020 Warwick Ave.,
Chicago, is busy boosting legislation
to make a papist holiday legal in the
seat of the national government
But the beloved knighU of popery
are not in political They say
they're not, end such worthy gen
tlemcn could not err in a statement
of fact!
Highbrow Hoodlums
The kind of respect for law and
property rights inculcated by the
papal system's educators waa exem
plified at South Bend, Indiana,
Sunday night February 6, when a
mob of students from the papist
university of Notre Dame drove the
crew from a trolley car at the point
of revolvers, wrecked the car, act
fire to the wreck, and totally de
stroyed it
Worse than the act of vandalism
on the part of the young hoodlums
is the elaborate attempt of one Cav
anaugh, C. S. C. (whatever that
may be) end president of the al
leged university, to explain the act
s reported in the South Bend
Tribune of Feb. 7.
He says that though his students
had been provoked by street car
employees, these prodigies produced
by parochial schools had resorted
but once to physical Tiolence prior
o the burning of the Hill street
-ar. It seems that they had beaten
ip only one employee of the rail
way company, and therefore should
not be blamed for the boyish prank
of destroying properly after rhns-
ing employees away with firearms,
Motormen nnd conductors had
not conformed strictly to the re
quirements of tho young duke from
Notre Dame, and the officials of the
railway company had not soothed
the peeved pupils by punishing the
offending crews. The crafty Mr.
Cavanangh made plain how natural
it was for tho religious student.
under his charge to take the law
into their own hands and adminis
ter punishment according to the ap
proved methods of the Knights of
Columbus.
His remarks on the subject will
no doubt prove wholly satisfactory
to those who wink at everything
bearing the brand or approval of
the papal system; but neither tho
act nor the apology is sny credit to
an institution that poses as an edu
cator of American youth.
One of our best poets declare that
"The world ia progresaiag, and we're
moving fast ahead I" It surely is, for
look here, oa the subject, "1'ees for
masse,'' the priest editor of the Tablet
says: "Tha tendering of such pecuniary
offerings seems at time to excite sur
prise, uad even to scandalise. Why aay
t'ou Aeld lal fsnm, it ia difficult
to see," etc. fly this, you see Catholics
themselves ar objecting to tho mnss-fre
graft, hence this remonstrance. Even
though the priest "is debarred from com.
mere aad maay other waya of self
mail tenants by his aacred character ( ! )
aad occupations" as the Tablet thinks he
la, why doesn't he get out from wader
the papal yob and, like a MAN, shift
for himself! It take a poor widow
with 13 children to show the drones
how to removw the bar of self-main-tenanee.
But tba widow ia a product of
nature and tba priests of- popery I Seel
Thats the matter here! The CafJUIia
Cittrca say "There ar piabeadod,
pursrproud Catholics who turn dawn
Catholi colleges." It may be that some
of thoa Catholic hav outgrown their
reverence for priestcraft nnd ar look leg
hack at franca when abe tamed sway
from the Cntholie church, or at Italy
whe ah expelled the priest from tho
schools. They may hare been studying
history behind tba priest ' back. Anyway,
if Catholicism is so good a thisg, why
ar its patrona "pin-headed" and furs
proud!"
