The St. Josep
o
BSERVER
VOLUME IX.
.st. joskpii, Missorui, STt
.vUI 4, V)b
N'l'MBI.R 22
h
Ifi
if
ii
W I MEET T(l I AV
PUNS FOR BATTLE
City Democratic Committee
Will Assemble Tonight and
Fix Convention Date
WHEN A WINNING
TICKET WILL BE NAMED
The Democrats of St. Joseph Realize
That This Is Their Year to Win,
and Acting on That Idea, Will See
to It That Strong and Able Men
Are Placed at the Head of the Pro
cession on Its March to Victory In
April.
Tonight the Democratic city central
committee will meet nt the Monroe
club and arrange to start the fireworks
In -he municipal campaign which will
. n .. 1. .1 n a . I. n !. I full .. A .
a- no u itrsun limit; uiu unj in lull iuu-
troi or tne uemocratic party tne
party that does things. .
The call for the committee meeting
was Issued this week by Chairman
Thomas J. Lysaght, and there will be
a full attendance of the members and
all the members' friends who can
crowd Into the commodious Monroe
club rooms, for all realize that this is
the year for Democracy to win and
win It will.
The committee will set the night
for the ward primaries, which will be
held at the usual voting places, and
arrange the number of delegates to be
elected.
It will also fix the date for holding
the city convention, which will deter
mine who shall be the nominees of the
party and the future beneficiaries
as will these nominees.
From present indications the con
vention will most probably be held at
the court house on Saturday, March
18, and the ward primaries on the
night previous, although there are
some who do not favor that night, as
It is the -anniversary- of St. Patrick,
and it is feared by these that many of
tho voters will be desirous of attend
ing celebrations of the day and thus
fail to attend the primaries. The fear
ful ones on that score favor Thursday
night for the ward primaries.
But Two Candidates
The race for the mayoralty nomina
tion has now definitely settled down to
two men Walter II. Kobinson and
Barney Reilly and the friends of both
are so equally certain that their man
will win that It will take convention
results to establish the successful
one's claims.
The friends of Robinson have been
most industriously, at work and have
perfected a very strong organization in
every voting precinct In the city. They
havo their forces marshalled, and
when the clash comes at the ward pri
maries, will, they say, give a most ex
cellent account of themselves.
On the other hand the IteMly work
ers have not lost a moment and have
been most enthusiastic and persistent
Jfc v Vln their efforts. They have combed
J the Jity and In every ward and pre
cinct can be found active and ener
getic working Ilellly organizations.
For Other Offices
As the time for the primary draws
nearer, the active candidates for other
places on the Democratic ticket are
putting forth renewed efforts and will
keep the walks warm until the conven
tion Is over. A new candidate for
nntlr.n In tml.. Il.nn.1 In tin rn
ft lUUllUlllUUU 13 UCIUh UJUU IU llll !.'l-
if son of Elvis P. Maupin, whose friend3
have started a boom for him that has
grown to strong proportions. Maupin
Is ono of the best known men in labor
circles in the city and a man of strong
personality and attainments.
For the position of school director
it is conceded that Samuel I. Motter,
the present incumbent, will be renom
inated without opposition, as his good
record made during his present term,
it 1b felt, entitles him to this consld-
jk eratlon.
Robert J. Kennard, the present audi
tor. Is a candidate for nomination, and
it la not thought probable that he will
bbogip opposition.
-' The liveliest race Is for the nomina
tion for police judge, there being a
number of candidates and all of them
now "putting in their best licks."
..Billy Howard has made a strong cam
paign anu iceis very sauguine oi tne
result. George G. Squires has done
much heavy work, and James T. Allee,
the present Incumbent, has let no
grass grow under his feet. There are
a half dozen or more candidates for
this position who are feeling out the
voiers, wno wm proDauiy formally an
nounce this week.
J Taken In all, the coming city cam
paign promises to bo a most Interest
i !...-. ..
ing one and tho winners of the nom-
inntions win be the next public offi-
ccrs of the great city of st. Joseph.
I
WILL PROSECUTE THEM
Local Hunters Who Have violated the
Federal Migratory Game Law Had
Best Take to the Brush
A great many st. Joseph hunters,
taking their cue from the decision of
the Kansas court last summer which I
held that the migratory game law was
not valid, and went ahead and killed '
the birds, win do well to take to the
brush, as there Is trouble coming. A
Washington dispatch says that unless
the federal supreme court speedily
comes to their rescue, hunters who ,
have violated the federal migratory
game law on the strength of assur
ances that the department of justice
did not Intend to enforce it where it ,
conflicts with state law are likely to
find themselves defendants In prose
cutions. Reports have been published that
the department would not enforce the
law because it conflicts with Etate
laws, particularly with respect to open
and closed season dates.
"The department of justice has
made no such statement," said K. Mar
vin Underwood, assistant attorney
general, In charge of prosecutions un
der the migratory game act, "but on
the contrary Intends to prosecute vio
lators of the law until such time as
the law may be declared unconstitu
tional by the supreme court."
The act has been before the supreme i
court since last October and depart
ment officials expected an opinion to
be handed down last week. It was '
not forthcoming, however. '
"Hunters had better proceed on the
theory that the law will be enforced
unless the court, declares it unconstl-
tutional," said a department official,
"The presumption is, of course, that
an act of congress is valid."
if there is a noticeable absence from
the city of St. Joseph hunters when
federal court convenes here next
month, the reason will be decidedly
obvious.
PRISON GOODS MEASURE
Congressman Booher's Bill Is Again
Before the House Which Will
Remedy the Situation
The bill which Congressman Hooher
of this district had before congress Why Should He Not Be One of Mis
at the last session, which makes souri's Big Four at St.
prison made goods subject to the laws Louis?
of the state in which they are sold or
consumed, the same as though manu- Tew men who have left their im
factured In that state, is again before pi ess upon the history of this com
congress and will without doubt be mon wealth hae done mote effective
passed at this session. In the rubh of t-ervice for the Demociatlc party and
the closing days of the last session It the state of Miss-out i than lm Gov
could not be brought before that body, ernor Lon V. Stephens. His admin
but was reintroduced by Mr. Booher Istratlon as governor has passed into
at the presept session and is now In history as one of tlte most efficient
good shape for passage. Its passage the state has ever known. Hut the
will Strove of great benefit to Missouri hour that ushered in the admlntstra
and all other states where prison- tion of his successor by no means
made goods compete with honest witnessed the end of liis activities in
labor. behalf of his patty and his state.
At present some states lequire the Instead of enjoying his well-earned
branding of prison-made goods as such repose from the cares of state and the
and some other states prohibit the labors of political campaigns, Cover
sale of prison-made goods. The states nor Stephens has never for a moment
are unable to prevent the sale or en- j ceased his active interest in the wel
force the branding of prison-made fare of tho Democratic party. Whether
goods shipped from another state, managing a press buieau for the
however, because they are interstate party, or raising money with which
commerce. It Is this situation the to finance a Democratic campaign,
nooher bill is designed to remedy. or prosecuting with vigor the work of
organization, during the sixteen years
NOMINATED FOR JUDGE that have elapsed since he retired
from the executive chair, he has
Wilbur F. Hall, a Former St. Joseph wotked night and day, in season and
Man, Honored at Kansas out of season, for the party that
City honored Mm and which by his dis-
, tingulshed public services he lias hitn-
The many friends of Wilbur F. Hall, self so conspicuously honored,
until six years ago a resident here, are Three of Missouri's former Demo,
pleased to learn that on Feb. 19, cratc governors now hold high posi
In the Democratic city convention In ,loll8 of honor all(1 trU3t ju ti,e fei.
Kansas City, he was selected and nom- eral government. Stono Is in the
lnated as candidate for Judge of thegennte Foik Is 0,ef counsel for the
municipal court by acclamation. This, jnter.state commerce commission,
honor was bestowed upon him without rjockery has charge of the finances
any solicitation or effort on his part 0f tne postofflce department. Gover
and demonstrates the esteem that he nor Stephens has been tireless and
is held In by his fellow citizens there. unsWl.rv5ng In his support of the
Mr. Hall formerly lived at 124 Mass-, Wilsoii administration as well as in
achusetts avenuo In South St. Joseph, i,is allegiance to the state admlnis
but left for a course in the Kansas trution.
City Law School, and upon graduation
began practicing there. A year ago,
Police Commissioners Edward F. Lap
sely, Land and Mayor Jost appointed
him as secretary of the police board.
Mr. Hall has a brother living here,!
Virgil Hall, well known in abstracting,
circles. . convention? The convention will
., , , I i 7, rro.imeet In St. Louis, tho home of Cover
Fred Whlthatn Is back from Texas; assesses a nation-
and says ho is still a member of tnei
Republican city
Drendel man.
committee, and a
'Wn
WILLI! OTZ FOR CUT JUDGE
- "--
The many friends all oyer Buchanan county and in the city
0f g jOSeph are industriously at work promoting the candidacy
0f William II. Utz, the well-known attorney who has announced
as a candidate for the Democratic nomination for judge of the
circuit court, Division No. 3. Mr. Utz is of that class of Demo-
'crats who are always progressive and who are always found in
the front rank of aggressive fighters for the best interests of the
public. He is a native of Buchanan county, having been born on
a farm in Crawford (township, and acquired his early education
by attending the rural schools of Buchanan county, was for one
year a student in the Central college at Fayette, taught a year in
the interim at Lone Star, and then entered the State University
at Columbia, which graduated him LL. B. in 1889. In July of
the same year he was admitted to the bar before Silas Woodson of
the criminal court, and began practice at St. Joseph, where he
has been one of the successful lawyers for a quarter of a century.
W. H. UTZ FOR
(Always an active supporter of the Democrat.? interests, he cast
his first vote for Grover Cleveland, and was assistant prosecuting
attorney for Buchanan county in 1895 and 1896. For six years he
served as a member of the board of police commissioners in St.
Joseph, having been appointed by Governor Dockery.
On May 15, 1902, Mr. Utz married Alice A. Henry, who is a
native of St. Louis. Their three children are Mary Elizabeth,
i Alice Ruth and William H. Mr. Utz and wife are members of the
Francis Street Methodist Episcopal Church, South. His fraternal
affiliations are with Zerdatha Lodge No. 189, A. F. & A. M.;
Mitchell Chapter, No. 89, R. A. M.; Hugn de Payne Commandery,
No. 51, K. T. ; St. Joseph Council, No. 9, R. & S. ; Moila Temple of
the Mystic Shrine; St. Joseph Chapter, No. 189, 0. E. S.; Arapa-
hoe Tribe, No. 26, I. 0. K. M.; St. Joseph Aerie, No. -19, F. 0. E.;
and St. Joseph Lodge, No. 135, I. 0. T. M.
WHY NOT STEPHENS?
Would It not, we submit, be an
antltinnllii litct nilfl fllntWlt ttllll! fftP
the Democrats of Missouri to do this
year, If they should decide to confer
a small honor upon Governor Steph
ens? Why not make him ono of the.
four duU.gate8-at-lnrge to the national
,, ... .. ' ,,
wide acquaintance among Democratic
j i.tu.nued on Pace Eight)
T -
CIRCUIT JUDGE
I THE RIVERS' VACATION
These Are the Days that the Missouri
Rivers and Streams Are
Enjoying Life
These ate the grand old days for
Missouri's big rivers, as well as all
their sisters and their cousins and
their aunts. Vacation time has come
for all these streams and streamlets,
and riKht here around St. Joseph, the
Dig Muddy, the Tatkio, the Nodaway,
the Grand, the One-Hundred-and-Two,
the I'latte and all of their tributaries,
aftet having been coldly confined for
man) lrigid months, are now at lib
erty to ramble about over the land
scape to their hearts' content, with
liberal side trips and stop-overs at
attractive points, much to the dismay
of County Highway Engineer Itay
Carglll and all of the other engineers
of the tributary counties.
As soon as the ice begins to stick
out its chest, these watery tourists
proceed to prepare for a long and in
teresting journey. They spread all
across the latitude and longitude of
the surrounding country, rhew up Car
gill's county bridges, swallow a couple
of farms every now and then, and
otherwise disport themselves while en
route.
Streams that are dusty in the sum
mertime become raging torrents short
ly before spring, bearing upon their
foaming crests the wreckage of hu
man structures and Christian resolu
tions. The thunder of dynamite Is
heard in the land, and likewise the
overwhelming roar of such profanity
as only emanates from the otherwise
docile railroad gang foreman.
The strongest bridge along each
hilarious rivulet will find all the other
bridges stacked up against its piers
and abutments, and then the country
will be wallowed In mire. Presently
tho party who owns the strongest
bridge will be sued for damages by
he P wll own tho "oooed e"'
tory.
Then the river, having completed Its
vacation trip, will subside and give
tho lawyers a chance.
The death of Mrs. Julia Hartman
of Kansas City was announced yes-
jterday. She was a cousin of C. J. L.
I May and C. H. Jesberg of this city.
FORMER BIG MAN HERE
Prof. Henry Samuels Was a Grea
Character In St. Joseph a Quar
ter of a Century Ago
St. Louis. Mo.. Feb. 29. Tho fnltr-d'
States circuit court of appeals, in a de-
cislon made public today, affirmed the
conviction of Henry Samuels of wich-
Ita, Kans., convicted in the KansaH
district court of using tho malls to do
fraud In advertising a medical rem
edy.
Samuels was sentenced to Imprison
ment of one year and a day and fined
$300.
Circuit Judges Adams and Carland
and District Judge Trleber of Little
Rock heard the appeal, and all concur
led in the decision.
The above dispatch will b read
with considerable interest by the older
residents of this city, for it was here1
thot C m,...1a r,,n,l V,l .1.hlltnx If'
were twenty-five years ago.
About that time he appeared at the
old Pacific House, now the Metropole,
and after engaging the most stylish
and expensive suite, launched page
after page of advertising in all of the
i local papers, which set forth the claim
that he was the greatest and most
I learned, and most thorough and most
I finished, and most cultured, and most
, practical, and most skillful, and most
scientific of all spectacle peddlers (he
called it optical ( on this mundane
sphere and he proved It, for the cul -
' ture and talent of St. Joseph swarmed
to his suite, and after a "diagnosis")
paid from $250 the minimum to
$1,000 each for a pair of very common
pebble glasses set in a pair of gold
j frames (and then felt that they had
i bought cheap) handed to them by Jhe
obliging yet reluctant professor1.'
The. professor had the walls of the
rooms in his suita' lav'stC covered
with diplomas wrUtMiUrr-ft'reign Ian-
guages and bearing ail" sorts of gold
plated sals, while he himself was at-
tired in the latest creations and wore
enough diamonds (caliber and capacity
unknown) to dazzle the eyes of the
most "highly cultured" of that day's
society. !
After the professor left St. Joseph
with a trunkful of the then prevailing ness. deliberation, premeditation and
coin of the realm, he migrated to other malice aforethought.' He declared that
pastures, where he gathered in added K Is il'al to the nation's welfare that
glory and wealth. A few years ago Wilson be turned out of office and
he located In Wichita, whera he Rives his reason therefor. He con
sprung a bran new doctrine that of demned our Mexican policy. If his
curing any and all ills, no matter of words mean anything, they are a de
what standing or degree of servitude mand that we shall mass our armies
by the simple dropping Into the ee uPn the Mexican border and invade
of a few minims of some choice and that country,
unique decoction that he had dis-1 "He inveighs against our European
'covered. This, according to his self- policy for (I quote his words), first:
constructed testimonials, never failed 'The lack of foresight to make timely
to cure any ailment from grippe to provision for backing up American
consumption but in some way the diplomacy by actual or assured mill
minions ot the law In the person of tary or naval forces.' Second: The
I'ncle Sam. distrusted his "advanced forfeiture of the world's respect for
ideas." and the press clipping first our assertion of rights by pursuing
quoted tells the rest of the story.
HAS TO BE SHOWN
Congressman Charles F. Booher Re.
quired that He Must be Shown
Before He Believes
'
As a further Instance of how Con-
gressman Charles F. Booher stands
toward the administration, and to
quiet the fears of a few small-bore
politicians who have seen fit by mall-
clous inuendo, as they do not dare
to do anything openly; It is but neces-
sary to reproduce the following spe-
cial dispatch which the Washington
correspondent of the Kansas City
Times sent to his paper when the
submarine insurrection was on the
other day. and which reads as follows:
On sober second thought there ap-
peared to be a disposition with many
Democrats, who were among the most
ardent "insurgents" yesterday to give
the president a free hand and not to.
embarrass his position. This feeling-
was expressed by Representative
Hooher of St. Joseoh. who. bv the way.
took no part in yesterday's revolt, ferent to the Invasion of Belgium by
Representative Booher said: Germany'; that 'the law which was
"The president is Intrusted with vloiated ln the Invasion of Belgium by
handling the diplomatic situation. . , ,.,. ,,, , ,
"He has done so with marked sue- Germany was our law ; that our in
cess thus far. I am from Missouri and terest in maintaining it was a sub
I will have to be shown that he has stantial, valuable and permanent In
made a mistake before I will consent terest( as reai as the Interest of the
W'tyrnghldrmbarsslSg citizen in the enforcement of laws
hlnl against assault, robbery' and arson.
He affirms that the German Invasion
. . .. 'of Belgium was a breach of our con-
WILSON WINS HIS FIGHT ' , ,. .
President Wilson at noon yesterday
won his fight with the senate, when
the Gore resolution, which provided
for the warning of Americans against
taking passage on armed or belllger-
ent vessels, was tabled by the decisive
vote of CS to 14.
l.eDruary,awastne,astualetor ..-
Ing Income tax reports with the govern-
-. a . . . a
j ment and about fifty St Josephltes
will be cussing a blue streak when
.they are assessed a SO per cent pen -
t ! . ofnu.iAttliin" 4nin In fhnt
ttllj iUI lUlfiClllllb ." -
reports.
.'ELEMENTS OFHRST
DEGREE MURDER
- -
,
That Is What Senator Reed
Sals Ex-Senator Root's
Speech Contained
WAS A VERITABLE
DECLARATION OF WAR
In His Caustic and Vigorous Way
"""I" ' ",' a""or
thtSp"ch of AP0Stle of Re
Missouri's Junior Senator Dissects
H "wmom , Lays
and Lays Bare the
Purpose for Which It Is Intended
That Being the Attempted Over
throw of President Wilson.
No one can gainsay the fact Sena
tor James A. Heed does always know
what he is talking about and further
that he knows how to tell what he is
talking about, for when an opponent
has measured swords with Sun. Reed
that adversary when he is carried
from the arena fully understands that
the Heed weapon had done its work
well and that he had been in a real
fight.
Senator Heed was to have spoken
before the Democratic editors of the
state at the St. Louis meeting last
week, but was unable to leave his
duties in Washington, but he did take
time to write them a letter which was
read at the banquet, ari. in the course
ofwhich he paid his r'eOy ,3 to
m-&sUa"3'ju Root, who in a speech
before the New York gop convention
uttered so many false and misleading
charges against President Wilson and
the Democratic administration. In
speaking of Root, Senator Reed said:
Elements of First Degree Murder
"On Feb. 16 last Mr. Root read a
speech. It contained all the elements
ot murder In the first degree, 'wilful-
the policy of making threats and fall
ing to make them good.'
j "Then follows his specifications of
, what we should have done. 'Switzer
land and Holland mobilized upon their
frontiers and preserved their rights,'
says Mr. Root. He asserts that we
had fair notice of the desperate attl-
ture of the belligerents. His argu-
ment ,s that we shouW havo at once
created a great army and navy. He
castigates our government for having
ony engaged In a warfare of words,
He deciares that .our fraii words have
brought no results.' He draws this
concislon: '0ur diplomacy has lost
Us autnority and influence because we
have been brave of words aml irres0-
lute of action.' He adds: 'American
Deinocracy stands ior something more
tnan beej and colton and corn. He
deciares that 'our people are brave
and stronK,. and that 'It Is our duty to
., . ,... . .
prewve the law as established among
nations.'
Should Fight Germany
..., agserts w.th creat emnhasis
that 'We should not have been Indif-
irftl'l Willi UCUUaU ttUU UtUCI UAUUU0I
and that 'we had a national right to be
heard,' and that 'to fail to insist upon
our rights Is to consent to the abroga
tion of the laws of nations,' and 'to
Amerlca.& consont to the aban-
donment of the mission of Democ
racy.' He grows furious over the faot
that our government In its diplomatic
AAvAtTnn1 Anna Yfltli f!omvnnv ro.
LUlt I'Dl'UUUCIIVC " VM KJJ HIUIIJ .
fem;d Qe ., h,storlc Won
. . .,, ,, ,,,,.
thm wag
i . ' , to
i u J o
(Continued on Page Eight)
