THE BARRE BAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 300.
HAHKK, VKKMOXT, SATUKDAY, MAKCII 4, 19KJ.
pkick. oxi: cent.
i
CANNON FIRE,
BUT INFANTRY
DID NOT MOVE
According to the French Of
" ficial Statement, the Bom
bardment Continued with
Considerable Activity at
Various Sectors in the Re
gion of Verdun
AT ESPARGES FRENCH
KEPT GERMANS BACK
After Explosion of a Mine,
' the Germans Attempted to
Occupy the" Crater and
Were Repulsed On the
Remaining Front, the Cus
tomary Artillery Fire Con
tinued
PRES. WILSON HAS
NO INTENTION
OF RESIGNING
Washington. 1). C, March 4.
Aroused by the publication of re
port yesterday that lresident
Wilson, because of the strain of
th! foreign ituittinn,' was consid
ering resigning from the office, tho
White House to day issued the fol
lowing formal statement:
When Secretary Tumulty's at
tention wan called to a story ap
pearing in certain papers that the
president had resigned or was con
sidering resigning, lis said: 'An
American newspaper that would
publish a story of that kind in a
situation like the one that now
confront America dishonor itself.'"
BARGE DASHED ON ROCKS
And Five Men Are Supposed to Have
Lost Their Lives.
Scituate, Maas., Starch 4. Five men
were probably lost last night when an
unknown barge was whipped from a tow
ll III VQ M, Villi ,viow Hltu nil un u niuui . ill , 1.
Smith's rock. The, barge began to go to cu,'"!r', and 0,16 Ir,tlBh Pntro1 bot
SUBMARINES
VERY ACTIVE
Germans Report That They
Have Sunk Two French .
Auxiliary Cruisers
VERMONT DAIRYMEN
WOULD HE HIT
ALSO ONE BRITISH
PATROL VESSEL
Destruction of Steamer La
Provence Caused Loss
of 3,130 Men
Berlin, by wireless, March 4. Tho
sinking of the two French auxiliary
Paris, March 4. The bombardment
continued with considerable activity last
night at various sectors in the region of
Verdun, not, however, followed by any
action of Infantry, according to the an
nouncement of the French war office this
afternoon. At Esparges the French pre
vented German troops from occupying a
pieces within a few minutes. Her crew
were swept away and one body was soon
washed ashore.
The North Scituate life savers, who
had gone out to their barge, the nearest
of the tow to their station, found the
crew unwilling to be taken off. They
had just prevailed on them to accept
rescue when the members of tho crew of
the other barge cried for .help in the
water.
Turning from the barge which they
had boarded, the c oastguards hastened to
the scene of the wreck. Before they
could reach it the cries had ceased and
only one body was found.
The life avers were unable to learn
the identity of either barge. The hail
ing port "Philadelphia" was read across
the stern of one, and it wag believed they
were carrying coal from that city or
from Delaware or Virginia ports for Bos
ton, when the tug which had them in tow
was overpowered by the storm.
The tug disappeared soon after the
two barges drifted ashore, probably her-j
crater made by the explosion of one of
their mines. The customary artillery self in distress,
A third barge, which apparently formed
r,
. .i r. - r -i 4 I I'
Arouna we village or yuuaumont, but thousht she had weathered
wnicn is in tne nanas or me termans, tie gtorm
there is raging a' battle of great inten
sity. Having captured the village and INCREASED FREIGHT
a-toAtiA ihnir Ittiaa wAtjf onrl smith ihm I
Herman were forced to (rive around be- I KA itt ALLOW CjU
fore vicious attacks of the French, who
regained part of the terrain they had "terstate commerce commission uoicu
lost. The fiehtin here is nroceedine un- That 20 Cents Per Hundred Pounds
abated. is Reasonable Charge on News
Print Paper.
German submarines Is announced by the
admiralty. The announcement also re
fers to the sinking of the transport
Provence, saying that reports from Par
is say the vessel carried 1800 men of
whom only C06 were saved.
La Provence was listed as an auxiliary
cruiser, but the wording of the Berlin
dispatch does not make it clear whether
she was one of the two said to have
been destroyed. Official reports from
Paris last night indicated that about 3,
130 men went down with her. The
French admiralty said there was no sign
of a submarine.
If Transportation Rates on Milk and
Cream Should be Increased, Said
Commissioner Brigham of
Vermont.
Boston, March 4. Elbert S. Brigham,
commission of agriculture for Vermont,
who claimed to represent 1N..VH) farmer
and dairymen of that state, protested
to-day against increase of transportation
rates on milk and cream at a hearing
of the interstate commerce commission.
According to Commissioner Brigham, anv
tendency to Increase the transportation
cost to the farmer would acruniKly a licit
the dairy industry of Vermont.
Commissioner Brigham submitted fig
ures showing there were 13,IM)( cows in
eleven of the fourteen ermont coun
ties, and the annual average upkeep is
$1)8.84. On the creum basis it was found
that the farmer could obtain a profit 'of
$7.42.
TO GIVE WILSON
FREE HAND
Administration Leaders Tro
pose to Press Advan
tage in the House
FEW DIFFERENCES
OVER H ETHEL HILL
WHEN MATTER COMES
UP NEXT MONDAY
$100,000 BAIL ASKED
PROVENCE CALAMITY GROWS.
Over 3,000 Men Were Lost When Steamer
- Was Sunk.
Paris, March 4. It was announced at
the French ministry of marine yesterday
that there were nearly 4.000 men' on
fire continued along the remaining front. I " ' 'L''lboard the French auxiliary cruiser. Prov-
I ' ..... . . - I A llrxi U'hnn u It a u-uj oiinl lit T ha M.Jitnp.
ranean on February 28.
It was stated that on board the Prov
ence were the staff of the third colonial
infantry regiment, the third battalion,
the second company of the first battalion,
the second company of the hrst battali
ion, the second machine gun company
and one extra company, in all nearly i,
000 men.
Because of the "Elusive Tendencies'' of
Lyman.
New York, March 4. John Grant I.y
man, whose alleged stock swindles .are
said to have netted him several hundreds
of thousands of dollars, wan held in
$100,000 bail yesterday by I'nited Mates
Judge Alston J. Day ton. Judge Hay ton
stated that m view of Lyman a previous
elusive tendencies, ho thought the sum
quite reasonable.
1 lie specific charge against Lyman Is
that he swindled all over the country
through tho sale of imaginary oil lands
on a partial payment system.
Propose to Authorize Him
to Conduct Diplomatic
Affairs Alone
MONTPELIER
High
Seminary Defeated By Stowe
School, 23 to 20.
In the roughest basketball game staged
in armory hall between school teams in
a number of years, Stowe high school de
feated Montpclier seminary lout evening.
23 to 20, thereby increasing their chances
for the league championship. The Stowe
victory was due largely to superior team
work in the final 20-minute half, al
though, in the opinion of the small but
enthusiastic crowd of spectators, the ref
eree and umpire contributed not a little
Washington, D. C, March 4. The next
step in Resident Wilson's fight to die
pose of the armed ship agitation in Con
gress has been postponed until Monday.
At an early conference to-day, adiuinis
tration leaders in the House' decided not
to Insist on a vote to-day. This after
uoon the rules committee will meet to
frame a rule to table the Mclemore
resolution to warn Americans off armed
ships of European belligerents. This
rule will .bo brought in with the first
business Monday, when the administra
tion forces plan to dispose of it by a
substantial majority.
In order that the action in the House
shall give no room for doubts of the de
cisive character of the sentiment in Con
gress, administration leaders plan that
the tabling of the McLemore resolution
shall be accompanied by a declaration
that the president shall handle diplomat
ic affairs without congressional interfer-
General Manager Cliftoid of Woodbury
Granite Co. Conferred with Com
mittee from the Granite Cut
ters Last Night.
Bethel, March 4. (Icneral Manager W.
C. Clifford of the Woodbury Grauito com
pany was here for a few hours yesterday
and left on the night train for Chicago
and St. Paul, where urgent business
called him a dav earlier than he expect
ed. Wbilu here he met tho committee
from the granite cutters' union, anil it
was found that only a few minor mat
ters separated them. As Mr. Clifford
could not 1 here to-day, the committee
asserted they would report the result of
the conference to a meeting of the cut
ters, which had Von called fur 9 o'clock
this morning. About HA or W) cutters
remain here, although business has been
dull all winter.
There is a wage, controversy between
tho company and the lumpers' union,
whose agreement also expired on Feb. 29.
DARTMOUTH
MEN BANQUET
Alumni Association of Ver.
mont Held Record Re- ..
union in Barre
DEAN LAYC0CK W
GUEST OF II OR
CONFERENCE AT QUINCY
But It Is Understood Nothing Definite
Developed.
F. L. Laird of 7 .tpelier
PresidentRes .ons on
J. A. DeBoc.Ac( Death
A" record gathering in the History of
the Vermont Dartmouth Alumni asso
ciation was held at Hotel Barre last
evening. A business meeting preceded
Quincv, Mas., March 4. A conference , . , . , i ,
i. 7 ,1 n 4- .I the banquet with the election of officer
between the committees representing the I . 1
granite manufacturers ami the granite
cutters was held here lust night in an
effort to reach an agreement over the
differences which have caused a suspen
sion of the granite plants since Tuesday
night, it is understood that nothing
for the ensuing year and the reading and
adoption of resolutions on the death of
Joseph A. DeBoer, who was one of the
most prominent of the Vermont alumni.
Many touching personal tributes wera
definite was arrived at. The regular ;I'.HiJ to h memory of Mr DeBoer during
monthly meeting of the manufacturers'
association will be held Monday night.
RALLY CALLED OFF.
Only a Few People Had Gathered to Hear
Fred J. Kneels nd.
Such a crowd as might be comfortably
ensconced in the flagman's shanty on
Prospect street without any inconveni
ence to the flagman, gathered in the
opera house last night to hear Fred J.
Kneeland of Boston speak on local op-
npA 1 ia li.nrlnrfl aro mnhiliiiir. thnt.
thev have votes to n.akn tha victorv tion- It waa announced that the speaker worK would at first seem to be u
uiey nave votes to make iiw victory ,.:.,, i, lilet hut n t.hnrnnoliiv iUA h ,i
Tm lr.urlnr.1 I i'ii-i vi mic iati"i ui " e"-J - "
ine leaders . ", ..v x ,...5'imiuiit ouv ...i ,i;
complete and undisputed.
the meeting and the adoption of the res
olution was unanimous.- The officer
elected were the following: President,
F. L. Laird of Montpclier; vice-president!
C. F. Chapman of Woodstock; secretary,
W. R. McFeeters of Knosburg Falls i
treasurer, V. A. Doty of Montpelier.
The resolutions on Mr. DeBoer were as
follows:
'Resolved, That in the death of Josepij
Arend DeBoer, Dartmouth has lost a dis
tinguished alumni; Vermont, an emi
nent citizen; and society, a shining mem
ber, cut ot in the prime of life, uu
work would at first seem to be incom-
each
explained that the postponement was --" "- hu....,
agreed to because of the absence of so Bcanl aolen l"Pre were pwrorce lew
n,nv ,.k..,u ui-.,i """n from the ranks of labor. The faith
TL. A.nijmn 1L. Ilnntn l.,n,ln.a tn I "HI l".i:il n nilCUi Hil.ll luinnuiri S III Vll.
4IIG M rClllUII VI HIT 41IIIII-I- II Hull O I.MI .
men, but in an audience that numbered . present task, that no second doing was
postpone the vote until Monday was re-
As the minister of marine on February
20 announced that the number of sur-
: f iL. t . i . . . . r
Germans Deny French Retook Douaumont. J ? ' j-? u . f
IivasiiingLon, u. y., .uarcu t. iucreasfU)-"-"" "-v "i" iiivih.iii mj- i.ub ivi
freiirht rates on news print paper from going dispatch that upwards of 3,130
emy was repulsed in an effort to retake New England and Northern New York to were lost.
Douaumont the war office announced-to- points west of Pittsburg and Butialo and . ine loss oi more tnan j.ikxi lives in tne
a t i. . .4 w ti,a east of the Mississippi river and north (sinking of the French auxiliary cruiser
day. It was also announced that the" of U)e Qhio riy,er d to.day iftovence is the greatest ocean disaster
booty taken since eo. 22 naa Deen xn- by tlle interstate commerce commission
creased to 115 guns and 161 machine A rate of twenty cents a hundred pounds
guns.
w-as pronounced to be reasonable.
PART OF RAMPARTS
DEFENDING PARIS
WERE BLOWN UP
PLEADED NOT GUILTY.
Albert J. Roper Accused of Murdering
His Father .
Lowell, Mass., March 4. Albeit J. T.o
Twenty Persons Were Killed and Large P81"- charged with murdering his father,
xvumDer injured in aeries or explo
sions Accompanied by Fire.
florist, by assaulting him with a piece of
iron pipe, waa committed yestenluv aft
ernoon, by Judge Knnght.
Paris, March 4. Twenty persons were Roper was accompanied to the court
killed and a large number were injured in room by hupt. Welch and Lieut Martin
an explosion at the works known . as Maher of the Lowell Hk'. ate (lllicers
... Eustace and Murtage and Constable
uuu.c ... , fYank H. Farmer of Tewksbury. W il-
suburbs of Paris, this morning. liam H. Wilson, Roper's counsel, and
A part of the ramparts east of the fort Fred Roper Of Revere, his oldest brother,
ttnn blnwn lin. lind the eflnae Vi tint were also With lllin.
been ascertained. A quantity of explo-l.44 J , j '
n ' r I Attorney llson asked a continuance to
sives, including hand grenades, was stored March 14, which was granted. Supt
there, tire followed the hrst explosion, Welch acted sua prosecuting officer.
and there were other smaller exnloRinnn. Supt. Welch said that Conductor Tim
, . . . ..
oiny 4YL8CK 01 uie isay oiaie sircei rail
way bad recognined Kpper as a passen
gcr in Tewksbury Wednesday night, the
night of the murder.
'Roper," Supt. Welch explained yes
terday afternoon, "protested that it must
have been luesuav nieht that Mark saw
London, March 4. A German seaplane him in Tewksbury. This was the first
returning from England was picked up time he mentioned having been in his
bv Mm Pnh tl,r. milo. nnrl, f HRH. "me town mat uay. in examination
or modern tunes. I p to the present the
largest number of lives ever lost in one
wreck was when the White Star liner Ti
tanic struck an iceberg off the Newfound
land banks on April 14, 1912. and satik
with a death loss of 1,595. The rescued
number, 743.
The French ministry of marine had
previously given out no statement as to
the number of persons on the Irovence
when she went down. The vessel, how
ever, when in the Trans-Atlantic serv
ice could carry 1,0(10 persons, including
the crew, and it has been presumed that
as she was transporting troops between
ports not far distant apart she was
carrying a number of men larger than
her normal capacity.
hy allowing the visitors many iree show port,,,! without consultation with the
from the foul line. A group of rooters ,,P,lfi:,i0 arilt :i ilB .ituatmn.
near, the entrance shouted so vigorously : jt wag thftt the White House was ,ats fl,r Rn u,llftn'- . -4
near the clone of the game that Referee opposed to postponing action. o'clock " .Alexander Ironside
Kenefick called time, pulled out his watch that Mr. Kneeland had missc
GERMANS LOSE SEAPLANE.
One of the Operators Was Drowned,
Other Captured.
pull
and threatened to give the game to
Stowe. He failed to carry out the threat
but a policeman was called by Principal
Hatch of the seminary to stop the "root
ing." Each team played a defensive game
from the start and at times the floor re
sembled a battlefield with more men
prone than standing. The first half end
ed with tho score a tie at 13 points, but
in the second period the visitors dis
played a better knowledge of teamwork
and gradually crept into the lead. Each
team made nine baskets from the floor.
seminary being defeated because Heath
had more opportunities for free shots
than Hatch or Oranai.
Heath was the star of the contest,
making 1.1 of his teain's points, but
Hatch followed closely with live baskets
from the floor.
The summary:
Stowe. Seminary.
Heath, f. f, St. Mary
Houston, f,. f, Oranai
Chaffee, Avers, c c. Hatch
Smalley, g g, Ramsdall
Slaton, g g, Kelley
WOMAN ORDERED FREED.
o'clock passed and still there was little
more than the serried rows of vacant
Around 8:30
announced
issed a car and
as he could not get hero until 9:30
o'cloiec the meeting would have to be
called off.
After the meeting. The Times was
asked to state that Mr. Kneeland, being
a stranger in Vermont, got aboard the
After Being Held 34 Years in Insane
Asylum.
Worc4er, Mass., March 4. After 24 wrong train at White River Junction.
j'ears of confinement in the state hos
pital for insane, surrounded by insane USED TORCH ON WATER PIPE
paupers, Mrs. .Mary MoOrath, widow of
Henry MctJrath of Fitchburg. who died And Set fire to Building Occupied by
last December, leaving an estate of about . Burlintrton Merchant.
4700. (HI. was ordered hv .In dee Forbes in
probate court yesterday to be removed Burlington, March 4. While a torch
to n home of Wr nun. where Khe mav he wm being used to thaw out a frozen
surrounded by the luxuries warranted by water pipe m u.e imwncnt m Eugene
her financial' standing and culture. Cosselin's drug store at the corner of
Tho order for the removal of Mrs. Jff. -nmpiin im .'.orm xiieeiu yrieruy,
Oath was made in connection with a the flame was communicated to some ex
contewt of the McGrath will, instituted celsior and then spread rapidly. The fire
bv a nephew of deceased, Francis H. Mc- woraea up m tne partitions, so mat
(Jrath of Spencer, who was left $1,000. th firfm,,n to on two streams
The court proceeding yesterday came f he buildmg was damaged
on the appointment of a guardian rir "r.'"'.l",ll v"c """ "
the widow of the wealthy Fitchburg man.
FRENCH STEAMSHIP
LAKME DESTROYED
Sailed ffom La Rochelle, France, on Feb
ruary 29 and Was Sunk By a
Mine That Same Day.
LaRochellc, France, March 4. Thj
French steamship Lakme of Dunkirk,
which sailed from here Tuesday, was
sunk by a mine the same day in the Bay
of Biscay. Six members of her crew of
22 were lost.
Mine Sweeper Destroyed.
London, March 4. The admiralty an-
Seore -Stowe 25, seminary 20. Has
kets from the floor- Hatch 5. Oranai 4,
Heath 4, Houston 4, Slaton. From fouls
Heath 7, Hatch, Oranai. . Referee
Kenefick. Umpire Shaw. Time 20
minute halves.
rt nuriiioa 4 110 rhi t-rt ! rt A iiDAnnAi Priannln
delkerke bank off the Belgian coast, it Thursday, Roper told us that on Tuesday introyrA and 8Ilnk March x in the
- . I nmht lilt ni ma I yiiwil I tmwr I) ra inn l.ir I "
was announced in an official statement 1 ""." " ' f""" "
issued last evening.
One of the operators of tho machine
was drowned and one was made prisoner.
The seaplane dropped on Wednesday,
the official statement adds.
ACCUSED OF CHEATING.
Bangor's Street Superintendent Pleads
Not Guilty.
I5angor, Me, March 4. Henry A. Kel
ely, superintendent of the Bangor street
department, was arrested last night,
cnargeu witn naming oi.taineu money oy loti p(.rsoM in that'houe in the Rox
fraud from the city bury ,listri,.t of B((Hton, where Roper
4 ., " "; "- boarde.1, were not summoned to an in
men ana tneir teams 01 norses on the :, : r.an t 1m,iu i,.
payroll at various times from Dec. 1 to tor Ma,k an), ;,t,lpr know R r wp
Feb. 20, these men, it is alleged, not be- enoh to te no, IlliHtaken ahout weinir
electric cars and did not stop in Tewks
bury.
The reason he gave for coming here
Tuesday night was that he wanted to
see the bowling match between Martel
and Wkh, but he admitted he got drink
ing in owell and did not see the bowl
ing contest. He became confused vester-
day when talking to us about the train
he boarded in Lowell . Tuesday night to
return to Boston. He finally admitted
he did not know upon what tram he re
turned that night, but said he supposed
it was about 11 o clock.
80 far as I know Mrs. Fox and the
eastern Mediterranean while performing
her usual duties. All the officers and
crew, except three men, were saved and
landed at Port Said.
NO AMERICANS ON BOARD.
ing in the employ of the city. Kelley,
according to the warrant sworn out
against him by Mayor John F. Wood
man, obtained ahout $1.0!7 of the city's
money in this way. Arraigned in court,
he pleaded not guilty and furnished ?.X
fu bonds.
The case has created a great deal of
comment here, Kelley being prominently
him in a car in Tewksbury last Wednes
day night."
AWARDED $23,500.
Mr. and Mrs. Francis A. Kerr Given a
Big Verdict.
Dedham, Mas March 4. A iurv in
The Steamship Giava Which Was Sunk
by Austrian Submarine.
Leghorn, Italy, via Paris, March 4.-
The steamship Oiava, which left here on
February 2!, has !een sunk by an Aus
trian snbmarine. There were no Ameri
cans on board.
identitied in church work, and bearing an I Judue Ihibiiuue's sesnion of the Norfolk
excellent reputation. It is the first time I supreme court early lat evening brought
in the History or Uangor that a city offi- in verdicts tottlmg fil.KtO for the plain
cia! has been arrested on a charge of tiffs in the cases of Mr. ami Mrs. Francis
graft. Kelley was bound over for trial A. Kerr agaWt the National Fireworks
at the supreme terra of court in Septem-1 company and William A. Luce, an agrnt
tier, waiting Hearing. lof that company.
l,efeatel charges of extravagance and I There were tour suits involved, two
mismanagement have been made against I others, against the eelectmen of the town
the Iiangor street department, of which of Rmokline. having been dimicd br
Kelley ie the active head, so far aa direct I the court. Mrs. Kerr sued in each eaa
Mipcrvision over the men employes is I for .V'.0. Her hunhsnd. alleging
concerned, t.ot tip to this time no one I of eervic. sued for .M.i.
has ax-u-.l anyone in the department of The jury awariW Mr. Kmt 1.Vw
t'l!ftz tae city money,
MRS. THAW NOT PRESENT
Nor Waa She Represented By Counsel at
Divorce nearing.
Pittburg, March 4. The hearing on
the application of Harry K. Thaw, for
divorce from his wife, Evelvn Nesbit
Thaw, opened here yesterday before
master appointed by the court to hear
the testimony.
The hearings will lie private and none
of the evidence will be made public. Mrs.
Thaw waa not present when the case
opened yesterday and it w burned that
she was not represented by counsel.
FOUR MEN HURT IN EXPLOSION.
Compressed Air Tank Bursts in Round
house at Portland, Me.
Portland. Me., Marrli 4. Four men
-re painfully injured TesterUv bv the
cxplowion of the main rewrvoir for c.m
preswd air on a shifting encine in the
f.rand Trunk ri!av roundhouse in the
Kat IWrirf j-tion. The injured were
iorge Newton. E. H. SteTens and .Hn
The cepart-lin her emt a?in-t the fireworks eons-J 1 U yen. an eririneer. all of this city, and
ment Ha overdrawn over fo.rio nJ its nanr and ?l in the suit ir)nt Lihv. Hartand l Im of South Park. fir
trnd;tnre bate len the largest evcrlgiving t!ie Imi-Und f in t!i trmT I mn. Nwtn. th rwt wrnm-'y in-ejr-rnded
for Bargor atreeta. tae and f.'xiJ in the Utter. jorcd, tutU.ned br-Aen h-g.
George H. Almon, who recently, with
his partner, O. E. Moody of Waterbury,
negotiated a ileal with the Montpelier &
Barre Light & Power company whereby
the Waterbury Light 4 Power company
became 'the property of the former cor
poration, left last evening for Florida to
join Mrs. Almon and remain until spring.
Mrs. Julia Dewey, who has been em
ployed In the educational department at
the State House for several weeks, left
this morning for New York City for a
visit.
C. W. Brownell of Burlington was a
visitor in the city to-day on legal bus
iness. The "circus" given last evening by
members of the Y. M. C. A., aided by
the Montpelier Military band, was at
tended by 500 or COO persons, the event
being held in the city hall auditorium.
Many were the stunts resorted to by the
participants to amuse the spectators anl
some hiirhly interesting gymnastic work
wa exhibited by many of the youths.
In the high dive on a bar. Kdwin Steele
and Paul Corse came within six inches
of the world's record for the event, suc
cessfully negotiating a dive of eight feet
from a springboard, turning a somersault
before landing. Following out the cus
tom of a regular circus." a concert was
given after the big show. The proceeds
are expected to reach a total of over
$100, the sum being used to aid the Y. M.
C. A.
Morris lT. Alexander arrived home this
forenoon from Bocton, where he has been
employed for the past six month.
W. R. McFeeters. jr.. of F.nodbtirg Falls,
left this morning for Burlington after a
brief 'business visit.
Sanford A. Daniels of the Industrial
accident board left for his home in Brat
tleboro to spend the week end with his
family.
Frederic Shepard went this noon to
Burlincton. where be will vWt relatives
until Monday.
Mr. ami Mrs. Harry ShurtlofT left yes- i
terday afternoon for New Orleans, IjO
where thev will make a few daiV visit.
store stock has not been determined
ft 1 4.
The will of Mr. .McGrath nominated BS Jtl
Frederick Nichols of Fitchburg as guard
ian for his widow and executor of his
will; but the appointment of Mr. Nichols
as guardian was opposed in the proceed
ings yesterday, and the court appointed
Charles F. Baker of Fitchburg and Miss
Mary MeCue of Fitchburg, sister of Mrs
MONTPELIER BOY ELECTED.
F. L. Laird, Jr, Captain of Dartmouth
Freshman Team,
Hanover, N. H., March 4. Just before
thA Piuinnvlvsnia freshman hftftketlMll
MeGrath, guardians under bonds of f25,- rame last "evenim F. L. Laird, ir.. of
000 each. I Afootnelier. Vt... was eleeted rnniain of
Judge Forbes refused to consider a th Dartmouth freshman bask-ethall
proposition of .the proponents of the will team. Laird plavs center on the team,
toward tho appointment of Mr. Nichols Tho irnn.A rnlf.il in tin 91 to 01
as guardian, the hearing inVourt yester- ing to B misunderstanding, as the teams
day coming on a petition of the special m the floor with the idea that l'enn-
administrator of the McOrath estate that gvlvania had won. 21 to IS. ontv to have
Mr. Nichols be given the position.
Judge Forbes, in appointing Attorney
Baker and Miss MeCue guardians, said:
"I am much chagrined that a ward of
this court should have been kept in such
a meager condition, surrounded by pau
pers and deprived of the delicacies and
comforts that would appeal to her, and
that a woman of her circumstances, with
an income ot perhaps - $lo,MH a year,
should have. ,
"All the happiness and comfort! that
it develop too lute that the score really
was a tie.
CAR SKIDDED OVER BANK.
Rev. J. J. Lyons of West Medford, Mass.,
Was Killed.
Winchester, Mass.. March 4. Rev. J. J.
Lyons, pastor of St. Joseph's Roman
Catholic church at West Medford, was
killed in an automobile accident here
Mrs. McGrath m capable of enjoying for ,, a ,
the rent of her life should be hen. She hro"5l', Hhan,d. ,nM' and ,l b,e"
has sufficient income. She should be tak
en from the hospital at once to comfort
able, cheerful and congenial surround-
ng. I would not appoint anv guardians
save those I was assured would carry out
this idea. I hope ber guardians will not
hesitate, and I feci sure thev will not, to
give her all the comforts and luxuries
that she should have.
During the hearing a letter waa intro
duced bv Attorney HmUon from Dr. Er-
neath the car and the medical examin
er stated that death was instantane
ous.
VERMONT MAN CHOSEN.
necessary. It may well be said that hej
left no task uncompleted to which ho
had turned his hand. A longer life
would only have afforded opportunities
for new achievements, and therein lie
the loss sustained by friends, state and
society. We miss his gracious presence,
but it has become and will always re
main one of the choicest memories of our
hearts.
"Resolved, That we extend to his fam
ily our deepest sympathy in their great
bereavement and that the secretary of
this association transmit a copy of these
resolutions to them.
"John W. Gordon,
"W. R. McFeeters,
"Sherman R. Moulton,
"Committee on resolutions."
Following the business meeting a ban
quet was served in the dining room. Pres
ident Fred L. Laird of Montpelier acted
as toastmaster . and created many a
laugh with hia good-natured sarcasm and
personal hits, -The speaking, with the
exception of the last speech by Dean
Laycock, was entirely extemporaneous.
John W," Gordon of Barre was the first
speaker and he read some original verse i ,
dedicated to the founder of the college,
Eleazer Whcelock. S. S. Cushman of St.
Albans was the next speaker and he
made a plea for new faces at the alumni
meetings. (.). D. Mathewson of Lyndon
villo, Robert C. Bacon of Brattleboro and
William A. Lord of Montpelier were oth
er speakers before the introduction of
Professor Craven Laycock, the present
dean of the college.-
Dean Laycock was the guest of honor
and brought to "the members of the as
sociation first-hand information in re
gard to the affairs of the college and the
problems which it is facing to-day. He
spoke in the highest terms of the work
of the Dartmouth Christian association,
as an aid to the faculty and administra
tive officers as well as to the student
himself. He stated that the greatest ef
forts of the faculty were expended in an
effort to minimize the number of men
leaving the institution after entrance.
The state of Vermont, according to tho
speaker, is to be congratulated on in
creasing the number of men entering
Dartmouth this year over last year by
over 100 per cent. The Dartmouth Out- .
ing club was referred to as not only the
best possible advertisement, but aa one
of the greatest factors in promoting good
health and fitness for college work dur
ing the hitherto rather dull and uninter
esting winter months. The musical and
dramatic clubs were mirtitioned, as well
as the military training opportunities
lievorl flint, it. fikih!td over an embank
monr. The honv waa found ninneil he.fwhieh have recently been added. In re-
1 J 4- 41. l.ll Tl C T I.
garu to tne latter, rruicswr j4y(ajviw
stated that he did not expect to see com
pulsory military training adopted at
Dartmouth, but that he thought likely
that an optional course in the subject
would become a permament part of the
curriculum.
Most of the problems confronting the
college to-day, according to the speaker,
are those arising from the size and
'growth of the institution. A brief outline
E. S. Brigham Vice-President of N.
Federation for Rural Progress.
Boston, March 4. Agricultural devel-
nest V. SeribniT, superintendent of the opment in New England is Increasing, in
state hospital, certifying that Mrs." Mc- the opinon of speakers at the annual j0f t)ie methods of securing individual
Orath is insane, but Dr. Scribner could
not be present in court to make ny fur
ther statement as to her condition.
Judge Forbes, in summing up the case,
spoke of Mrs. Mcdrath ae a person evi
dently of culture and refinement, and
probably, at imt only occasionally and
for temporary periods, demented. An
order will be isniied at once directing the
guardians to arply for the removal of
Mrs. McOrath from the hospital.
VOTED NOT TO STRIKE.
Haverhill Street Car Men Fail to Support
a Discharged Motorman.
meeting of the New England Federation
for Rural IYogress yesterday. The fed
eration elected L. H. Ilea ley. secretary of
the Connecticut board of agriculture, as
president, and Elbert S. Brigham, Ver
mont commissioner ot agriculture, as
vice-president.
14 CARS DERAILED.
When Brake Beam Broke Near East Rye
gate. St. ,Tohnburr. March 4. A freig'rs
train on the Boston anil Maine was
wrecked at East Ryegate yesterday
morning. The brake beam broke and
14 cars were deraih-d. No one was in-
1 . L..4 . 1 . 1: - 4: n J
Haverhill. Mass.. March 4. A decision u n'" """"f I""' -
in the neratue was returned bv the em- t m'""' r 1 n", "-y rr ,rom n-
the former on bn-ine,. Mr. Shuttle Iplovrs of the L,.chuetL Northeast, ""nvn.e .i-are.t i"r ira. k. .re. .nine
was recently nominated for alderman iniern Street Railway company who Tote 1 1 resume.! in the forenoon.
TALK OF THE TOWN
ward three and as there is no onponition. yesterday and lt night on a proposal
will lie ele-ted to the ofTioe while ab-ntifor a trike to ti fori-e the union's Ar-
from the city. Inian l for the reinstatement of a mo.
Mrs. T. R. Merrill and daughter. Mi
Helen M-rri!l of Kim Mrwt. ret'imcl
home lt eveninff from ;n. h. n l. n.
M.i.. where thev made a o Jvt vtit
with rein fives.
William I. Hart ! It. bo was ril-d to
the itv by tV death of l.i ffr lt
neck. .ve t n c! t f-r New rtkCity,
biT be is employed.
contact with the student by means of
class officers and advisers was given as
an example of the way in which these
new difficulties are being handled.
In closing the speaker assured the
alumni that the "Dartmouth spirit" is
not dying out. but that it is showing it
self in different ways than was the cus
tom in earlier years, and he expressed his
conviction that the college will continue
in its present prosperity eventually to
become one of the best undergraduate
institutions in the country.
The banquet was closed with the sing
ing of the Dartmouth song.
COLLEGE GIRLS ROUTED OCT.
By Fire in Alpha Chi House at Middle
bury College.
Middlebiirv, March 4. Fire early. Wt
evening damaged the Alpha Chi aorority
hoiiH on Ninth street to the extent of
t-.rman w ho was dis liargul lt July for j At t He fun.-ral of little Mary Cnno,iwersl hundred dollars, the b being e-
alh-ccd int.nnstion. ! daughter ft Mr. and Mr. J..pli Cann timated at between and ftoo. Tre
Tie count of the ballot howc. that, of ffi dran te freet. wlii.li was held at origin of the fire is unknown. The b'ae
the to thir l vote ruired for strike ir- t! e l ie Fri lsy aftenvon the follow- !tarted in an unoccupied room on the or.
tu n ha i he n obtained. ing friend of the family artrd a bear- jond fl-n-r. The fire department was sum-
Tie rail"" v b 2-1" ni l"re w ho are 'ersr Jtiano t"no. Mann. I ( ano, frar-j moncd t T:1 u bo k and uej only
mrtn)fr of te fim-n. It l.n run t U lnin an 1 .!-e Arnbo, The lnj
r 1.HM t'rt. l.ar-n. IjoWell r, i Sa- t k place in Vr t Vrw he cemetery
Irm and N-hui, N. IL Ik-ekic street. m cut on one hand by failing glass.
rial I ihrniu a? in ulluinjr the fames.
on' AM mir ienti. a nrewian, mun naoiy
