wm
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND THE UPBUILDING OF THE COMMUNITY.
VOLUME IX.
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, SATURDAY, MAIICH i. 1910.
NO. 10
X
nrcnniTiRM ip
mo nr.auLuiiuN u
DEFEATED RY 68-14 VOTE
Wilson Forriun Policy is Upheld in
I'pprr House Duriiiji Drain
ii tic Session
Washington. .Mai-ill Tin I nit
er States senate this morning by a
Vole f CM til I i killed the (ore resn
Intinii warning Americans oil' all
arme.I belligerent ships.
I he vote was a victory fur Presi
dent W'iNnii in his demand that con
.i ess drop all tt t i i 1 1 1 1 1 1 s li stop his
foreign negotiations ami give liiin
solid support in the crises with (ier
Hiany or else ilirertly to repudiate
( f. The majority s larger than
administration leaders tiad expected.
Senator (lore's resolution, a sub
.slitule by Senator MrCumber, a He
piihlican. and an atieinpl hy Sena
toi'lor (ore to strengthen Ins orig
inal proposal, all were defeated at
one time on a rolhall on a motion'
hy Senator .lames, one of the admin
istration whips, to talile them. The
administration victory in the senate .
transferred the light to the house.
The action Lives the president
tremendous support, in his insM
enee that ( iermaiiy's new submarine
warfari; shall he conducted in abso
lute conformity with international
law-- that no im-rc hant ship, armed
or not, shall lie "sunk without warn
ing or without the safety of pass
engers and-crew being asured. un
less active resistance lo rapture is
made.
All opposition to the president has
not. been crushed hy the vote, how
ever, and the insurgent senators,
with .McCuniher, Jones ami llorali
leading, declare they will continue
the light. McCuniher took the first
step in this direction by reintroduc
ing the substitute lie had oll'ered to
the (ore resolution. It goes to the
calendar.
, Senator .Iones declared til"' sen
ate bail been picd and had been
forbidden tile fi liscussiou on the
resolution that President Wilson
had said lie wanb-d. He declared it
would be easy to introduce another
resolution and that the senate had
not. yet settled (he issue.
Hill .Monday a Hb Pay
The biggest "lti;r Monday" in the
history id' I'nion County will b" cel
ebrated day after tomorrow, or
March Six. and Ch ton men hauls
and other business men ar" piepar
j 1 1 k to entertain their rrlemls in an
elaborate manner. Many of the
stores are endeavoring to sec-ire i x
Ira help to take care of the rush of
business expected, and nearly all ot
them will in some manner add to
their attractiveness for the neneiit
of the many country foik who will
lake occasion to make "Hig Monday"
I heir spring shopping '-ay.
Our many friends are invited to
drop in at the News ollice. Every
courtesy wil be shown them by the
"doggone good hunch."
Don Jose (onales. III
I (on .lose Manuel (lon.ales, we!!
known Union i n t pioneer, wa-
r ported very ill Fridav at his home
near Hueveros. Pa'. Valverde, half
brother of I (on Jose. Mrs. Valverde,
John Tixier, Jose Merre (i. iiah'.-,
son, and Kr. Win-diesti-:-, 'eft Fri
day inornine for It y aed n-iurned
today brineine Mr. O'ei'.ile: with
them, lie is now at the Whichev
er bospilal and physicians report
Ihat bis condition is satisfactory.
Wilson Entertains
(ieo. Wilson. C. ,v; S . conductor
celebrated a layoll' from duty by
e''iiK dance to friends at the Wil
son home six miles northeast of
Clayton, Friday evening. Many folks
attended together villi most every
one in the Wilson1 neighborhood.
All report Mr. and fSvu. Wilson ixvl
entertainers.
Ilell'iier Injured by Horse
Itay Hefiiier. while in Trinidad on
a horse, buying expedition was pain
fully injured by a horse kicking him.
He is laid up with several fractur
ed ribs and other bruises.
K. G Folks Say They Wish To
Absorb Union Ginger
We believe all parlies implicated in the billowing letter and ev -i
ryhody else will pardoy us for its publication:
PAIiLIN Oltl.NDOHF PLOW CO.
Kansas City. Mo.. Marc 14 tVMC.
It. W. Isaacs. Clavlon. New Mexico.
I iear Sir:
We acknowledge receipt of Copy of the Clayton New-;, issue of
l-ehruary -ó. I'.Mii. and are very nmcli phased to see the proinin
i i ce ou base given the 1' - O line of goods in your ad.
I bis is the sort of an ad that reminds us of the Taimo .-Irinus at
Ib'i'stein's - it yells for itself or as (he worthy editor of The News
would probably describe it "it is some yell of an ad" and will no
o not make the people in your section sit up and take notice,
to absorb some of the Kinder and enthusiasm that is ev idently very
ui there for your opening. We sometimes get into a rot sitting
irnin d here not doing inucli except advancing prices and believe
if we could get down to Clayton for a day or two, we might be aide
We certainly wish thai it was possible for son." of r.s to Let
plentiful in your section.
Yours truly.
PAHLIN i iltl'.M ( (UK PLOW Co
I'y Edwin Downs,
Asst. S-ry. Ov Sales Mgr.
Onick Watson, the Needle!
He was a hat salesman from Lin
coln. Nebr. He was making a s h
at the C. S. station which follows
as per reporter's memory:
"If Teddy Itoosevell, was president
we would all hav e good Jobs "
"Sure," interrupted Audit Karber.
"we'd' have a job- carrying guns."
"Kecr.use," continued the knight of I
the hats. disregarding Mr. Karber's
interruption, "Theodore is the frie::d
i,f the common Link -"
"Cows may come and cow may go
bul " this from the freight aLent
who is a swell sinuer.
"I have three trunks full of hats,"
said the Lincoln lid peildier. "and I'll
bet anyliodv or everybooy the best
hat I have aeainst a clear that House
veil is the next llcpuhllcau nominee
and the next president."
"Who will nominate him?" asked
a bystander.
"William -leunines Itryan." shouted
his nibs of the lids.
"I have a friend that you should
meet." .said Aeent Karber, "his name
is A. I'.. Snyder."
Lujan linn Down by Cur
Lino Lujan was run down by
Slieritf Crumley in his auto Fri
day niehl near tin- court house. It
seems that Lujan started across the
street, saw the car comlne and stop
ped -so did Mr. Crumley. The latter
started up aeaiu nun so did Lujan
and they met bead on. Lujan was
unconscious for a short time but is
not. considered seriously injured.
. S
Diplomatic Situation Sow Desperate
Washington. March I. President
Wilson's position on the internation
al situation as revealed further today
was that he bad tolu roneressional
leaders it was months after the res
ienation of former Secretary of
State Itrvan before the United States
eov eminent could conv ince (erinany
that this nation was in earnest in
its position on sulunarie warfare.
The president is understood to
have mentioned this fact to show
hi belief that action Py congress
; would further weaken the position
of the United Slates abroad.
He is understood to have told the
leaders that charges that he wanted
to plunge the United States into war
were entirely disproved by bis at
titude during the last two years.
Ho endured jeers and ridicule, he
said, because of his efforts to main
tain peace. He is understood to have
declared that he has always been
I willing to do anything except sacri
lleo honor in order to maintain the
United States at peace.
At tho samo timo the president de
clared he did not see how tho Unit
ed States could do anything but sev
1 er diplomatic relations with any na
j tion which killed Americana in vi
olation of international law.
Clayl.-n lire department answer
ed a paii' of calls Monday mornine
within two hours. The lii'st. blaze
was in the blacksmith shop of the
Pioneer garage resulting from (he
gasoline welder blowing off which
at. the time of the accident, was be
ing operated hy Webb Jamison. 'One
of the welder burners blew oil' with
such Torre that, it broKe the connec
tion on the lank cotdaiuing the oxo
acyleh ;!.- gas. The gas ;n this lank
was under high pressure and im
mediately caught lire when released
and instantaneously the shop be
came a roaring furnace.
iT'lie operators were lucky to make
their escape and it was extremely
lucky for the neijhb K lio i that the
shop was of corrugated iron. The
lire department made a ipiick run
and i n 1 1 i o-1 1 . i He- bl.ie in a fevv
nioinents. t-
l,The second lire was at the F. I lor
rego residence just across tin
tracks
near the power plant. Altlitiugh
the house stood an excellent chance
to be entirely consumed the lire hav
ing a g 1 start, aided by a -I ill'
breeze, it was extinguished before it
was half burned.
Captain Came in Like a Lion
Caplaiu T. S. Snyder was 77 years
young Wednesday. March 1st. the
day when either the Hon or lamb
is supposed to be the whole show.
Captain came in The News oflice)
just the same as usual, like a lion,
and went out, the same way.
the Captain indulged In a blood
lest a short time ago just to see
von know how In- was stacking up.
According to the figures dished up
by the scientific sharp he was only
OK years od.
Of course you know the Captain is
energetic and active, a member of
the board of cyouly commissioners
and a sturdy pillar in polities. He
has four brothers and two sisters
auij the combined age of the Snyder
brothers and sisters total 5.U years.
Ain't, so womlnrfut thoughthe
Captain is a liemocrat.
(;ill Hrothers Buy Tut tie Itaiich
y
toll brothers, Hubert and Joseph
of Clayton and John anrt Hen of Am-
istad closed a deal with S. C. Higgle
of Kansas City w hereby they he-
como owners of the old Tuttle rancbJ lett or Vance, by the Itev. C. E. An- Dean Puts On Delivery
The tract constitutes about CO sec- ' derson, of Thomas, N. M. The To keep up with the progress of
tions of land in Dallam county, Tex- bride, and gi i are well known and Clayton A. 11. Dean has converted a
as. The nearest point, of the ranch popular among a large circle of ac- Ford into a delivery service car for
to Union county is about 22 miles, ipminlances. Hoth are among the 1 his bakery. Dean figures that it re
John and Hen U11 will be in charge earlv settlers and we predict, for quires a Ford to keen pace with the.
of the enterprise.
They are at home to their numerous in these parts.
Lane Causes the Arrest oí Three ; fl.i.nt)s , tho Hartiett ranch, which . ;
Walter Lane of Cuates caused the is , f . ,ln,,st i(l ljs pal.t of .Mamae l.icei ses (.ranted
arrest of Oeorge, Jeff and Hruce j ,.,,, ,trv' Marriage license was issued this
Kennedy charging that they assault- ' vveek lo Ivan C. Hartlelt and Emmu
ed him. They appeared before Jus-; Senator Hawkins In Town Mangelsdorf of near tsedan. Fran-
tice Kingdom Friday and gave $500 Ira Massey and Senator Chas, ees N. House and Ciussio Clyde Kil
bond each for appearance before the ' Hawkins spent Monday and Tuesday burn of Sedan were, Thursday, also
grand jury. i in Clayton. granted license to wed,
iciiWlii GAR OF HOGS IS
LOADED FRONDES MOINES
IVoin-cssixp Folks Makliifi Many Ini-
provrincnts. Other News or
North Union County
iStvimtlkn-Newa (.orre.-pomlem-e.) (Ui'conl-Niws Correspondence.) v
.1. W. Kox shipped a car of hogs to : A stockmen's convention was call
Ihf Kort. Worth market on Saturday '''' l meet at, Kenton. Tuesday, to
of last. week. This is the second car ! discuss the report oT the delegates,
id' hogs to be shipped from lies; A- s- Haker and Martin lord, sent
Moines and the second car ever ship- ; ' Oklahoma City to protect the in
'ped from Union county. Later on j terests oí lessees of segregated lands
in the season from present, indica- "I' Cimarron county,
'lions the shipment from this point ! oí about lirty convened,
will probably amount to a car a .lb-ports were made by lio delegates,
jweek for several months, and other outcome oí which was very grat
' points in the county will begin ship- ifying t" the lessees. The principle
i pine as there is a tendency to turn .feature accomplished by the dele-
to hoes as a sure money Letter.
(. S. Seatou Improvements
Work on the (. s. Seaton rcsi-
dence on his place east of town is
moving alone rapidly. This resi
dence is of stone and will contain ó
rooms. In addition to this he is
building a barn, chicken sheds, etc.
The barn is of stone, onxluo feet
with 1 foot sheds on three sides.
This is to be the largest barn in this '
section. The chicken shed is no small
thing being lix'iO feet. When all
the improvements are made Mr.
Seaton will have one of the best
country homes in I'nion county.
Loiichard l!uildiu Started
Last Thursday work began on the
Lom bard building between ' Hie
Lank of lies Moines and the llar-b-ss-Spell
building. Thisbuililing i
'will be run back nt 70 feet, out of re-
inforced concrete, and in the rear a
'warehouse I'.'iXin will be erected.
The warehouse will be built of cor
rugated iron.
C. .V. S. Location Properly
TheC. S. has a bunch of survey
ors here for several days surveying
out the right-of-way to find out
del'milely just, where their property
is located. Some sidewalks, the re
moval ot the s'.ockyards fiin.1 their
present location and other things
an- contenipl'iled. we understand.
New .Merchant
on Wednesday of last week Tom
I'avenport bought, a half interest i.i
the Johnson meat market, liaveii
porl hails from Oklahoma and is a
nephew of Jim Davenport, a Con
gressman from that state. Welcome
lo our city.
Paulsen- lliucr
Last. Sunday evening a very pret
ty wedding look place when Miss He
atricc Alingcr and Mr. Herman Paul
sen were united in the holy bonds of
matrimony at the home of the
hride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. S.
Alliuger southwest, of Dednian. The
ceremony took place promptly at
six o'clock in the presence of a few
of the relatives and friends of the
couple. Itev. W. E. Allman officiat
ing. Freak E(l
A curiosity in II gg line was dis
covered by J. M. Aldrich. It is a soft
shell egg that when broken disclosed
another egg inside of it. J. M. oll'er
ed lo turn it over lo us, but we told
him to keep it. as evidence. The
smaller egg was about the size of a
pigeoll egg.
Preparedness
Harmon Fox has joined the army
we mean the army of Ford auto
owners.' That's about the biggest
army in existence.
.Itartlrtt-Manielsdorr
At H:no p. in., l-'eli. 2!, 1(.M(, at the
home of the bride's parents near
Vance, N. M., Emma Mangelsdorf
was united in marriage to Ivan Hart-
them a happy and prosperous 'life,
'ATTORNEY TO PROTECT
i IHTEREST5JDF STOCKMEN
Kccnrd Sajs Hoys Had Swell Time
I When They Visited Clayton
Dentist
gates was io that the lease was low
ered from 8 cents per acre to ó cents
and this was no smalt feat. It be
came necessary to hire an attorney,
for which John H. Williams was en
gaged. The attorney fee of -?100 was
cheerfully raised aL the convention
by assessing the lessee 75 cents fo:
each section leased. !t is estimated
that si'iiion was saved the lessee year
ly by gaining the ," cent lease.
It. was determined by the State
Hoard of School Lands that the low
ering of the land lease would only
stand good when a unanimous lease
was made.
A petition was arranged, generally
signed to be. sent to the stale board
of school lands with view of a pref
erence right to I -ssees. The pelitiol
will remain at th" Cimarron County
Hank a while for the conveliieucn
-.I those wishing .o sign it who have
not yet. bad the opportunity.
HIS hi Two Weeks
W
e don't like to bore our readers,"
continuously bragging about our
subscription list but here's the.
whole thing in a nut-shell Our sub
scription list i, in tine shape so
line in fact that it had us bulfalnei)
for a w hile as we have been forced
to work every Sunday since Oetoo-e-in
order to get the mail to subscrib
ers. The arrival tonight of a pieie
of modern mechanism. (he Omaha
Folder will allow the force to at-
tend Sunday school because the ma
chine will deliver the paper printed
and folded - ready for the mail. v
There are four distinct depart
ments in The News plant. The bus- '
mess department, the editorial de
partment, tin job department and
the subscription department. The
last, named has been an ever increas
ing source of annoyance no, we
mean it just try adding II fly names
each week to a mailing list, each
name with a separate address well
it is ipiite some job. Last week .r7
wise folks decided they couldn't get
along without The News and this
week 51 joined the happy throng.'
If anyone is inclined to doubt this
we will have Tim Hoggs, in charge,
of the mailing department, make af
fidavit as to (he niiinncr of names
he set and placed on the mailing
galleys.
Strange to say each and every de
partment of The News pays its way.
because it is our business to have,
men on the job who are experts in
their particular line.
When we ask folks to subscribe
for The News wo do so with no
(ualms of conscience we give' each
and every subscriber three time
the moneys worth in acual, useful
information and we gel It to sub
scribers while it is news because
we have workmen in that depart
ment too w ho sabe.
great increase of bread consumpl ion
