mnwMKS!
*fTr-~; - 7 r?. ?? -
HHROTMnR |W1*'
'? t* wwy??r^,J
- ? ;
l* ?"'. ?*??'? ' 'P.
- .
"Best Cartoons"
Reproduced Daily from T.-D.'s
Latest Exchanges
fJidjmonil @TimeS-|JiSijatcti
Society Doings
See i\Iiss IVitt's Newsy and Ac
curatcReporls in The T.-D.
66th YEAR
VOLl'MB HO
Mi.MHKIl SIM
RICHMOND, VA? SUNDAY, JULY '23, 1916 -FIFTY-TWO PAGES.
rA?K",:K ?CLOUDY
PRICE, FIVE CENTS.
BOMB EXPLOSION
DEALS DEATH If!
PARADE THRONG!
At Least Six Killed and
Forty-Four or More,
Injured.
POSSIBLE SOME BODIES
BLOWN OUT OF EXISTENCE
Timed Missile Goes Off on San
Francisco's Main Thor
oughfare.
torn f SOD IKS I,INK SIDKWAlAv
tiped \Hrihutr<] to Mind I"nhnbincpd
1?y Arguments Fur and Auainst
Preparedness.
SA.V KHA.vnsro, July C:?A* least
\ r.'f'iis ?.%< !<? killed and forty-four
Injured 11 o r to-day when a
tiniO'1 homl . roiiff.il*??t in a suit ease.
'\ploded r.;i San Francisco's main
'horouchfare in the midst of a throne1
vifu-inp a preparedness parade. A one
? mry brick structure, against which the
suit caFi> stood. was wrecked, and the
' xploslon blew n gap through the
crowd, Masting men, women and chil
dren It Is possible that some bodies (
< re blown out of f \inf nee, the po
ne believe. The ."tiit case contained j
? ices. bullets. cas pipes, scrap,
and class.
Thf- police arretted Frank Josephson, 1
' lodser in a sailors' boardlnK-house.
who ? fled. "1 didn't do it! 1 dldn't^do'
' ' and trembled violently when he
" ?? bein? searched at the station
? ? The police said lie had not been
1 ii.-i-1 of anything
<"harles M Flckerl, district attorney,
led a statement attributing the deed
'<> t mind unbalanced b> arguments
and against preparedne.1 s. The pa
was not Interrupted.
The explosion occurrtd ft Stuart and
" kct Streets. two blocks from the
i ? rv Building.
The holiday throng, cheering a con
tent ???f veterans of the First <?all
?nia Infantry >?( the Spanish-Ameri
i' U ar. became a shambles. The
hlare of fifty hands and th< ro.u of
drums drnaiud the cries <>f the in
but Hie sidewalk w.i-. strewn
With t orn hod'; cs.
lti:i'OltT*> T\\ O \\ (IMI'A
\lti: III.OWN TO HITS
"Two uonu'ii -landing beside me
inti blown to bits," caul a woman,
wlw. with her two children, was in
jured.
All the newspaper offices j?\ San
I'rancis -o ye?-.te1 day re.-eived a ? ?.< i -
muni< ition written in Honian script
with an indelible pencil, many of the
\? beint heavily underscored Tl <?
communication was s .rned: "Tl.e I >e.
terminfd Kxiles From Militaristic ?!ov
? rernei t ? Italy, Cierniati.v, United States,
Kussia."
I > '-vial i r ? a n ? the writer re -
I'll.-'! himself. The cominii n i< a t :on
?">ur protests have been in vain in
regards to this preparedness propa
ganda. ?o we * re aoinc to use a little
direct action on the "2d, whb h will
echo around the earth and show that
Kriseo re.all> knows how, and that mili
ti-i>mi cannot be forced oil us and our
ri> Idren without a violent protest.
"Things are going to happen to show
that we will g.-> to any extreme, the
Mine as the controlling class, to pursue
what little democracy we still have.
Don t take this as a joke, or you will
be rudely awakened. Awaken (sic);
?e have sworn to do our duly t<> the
masses, and only semi warning? to |
those who are wise, hut who are forced
fr> march to hold their Jobs; as we'
want to give onl\ the pyocriptical (sic) i
tatriots who shout for war, but never
to, a real taste of war.
"Kindly ask the Chainher of Com
merce to march in a solid body if they
want to prove they are no cowards. A
opy has been sent, to all the papers.
Our duty has been done so far."
n visity I'lti'.c vi th>\ ii.\i>
III'.KV TAIiKV IIV I'OI.ICK
Every possible precaution, police of
ficials said to-night, had been taken,
hut the innocen t-looking suit case,
standing where a country visitor, of
whom there were thousands, mijrht
have, set it down, attracted no atten
t ion.
The force of the bomb was aston
ishing A piece of lead pipe was blown
two blocks Into the Northwestern Pa
cific. Railway waiting-room. A woman's
sold watch, presumably belonging to
one of the victims, was blown through
the air and landed in a fruit stand a
block and a half away.
An ambulance, summoned to care for
a fainting spectator, stood across
Stuart Street when the explosion oc
curred. The patient's leg was frac
t ired and a man aiding the attend
ants fell with a fractured skull, but
the ambulance steward was uninjured,
lie packed both men and some other
ictims into the ambulance and rushed
Item to a hospital.
The official count of the parade in
?1 tea led that *>1.31 H persons were in
! tie.
VILLA PURSUED FIFTY MILES
( arritiiza Soldier* In All-Day ItiimilnK
Hnttlc With Itiindits South
of I'll r nil.
CHIHUAHUA CITY. MUX., July 22 ?
\n all-day running battle between Car
lanza soldiers and bandits commanded
!>.\ Francisco Villa was fought on Sat
urday near Hacienda El Florldo, south
?f T'arral, In which 200 outlaws were
killed and their forces scattered In dis
order. according to delayed dispatches
sent here by General Hamos, who com
manded the Carranzistas.
Villa, the report said, was pursued
fifty miles into the State of IDurango.
$12.75 ATLANTIC CITY AMI RKTVRX
VIn YORK rtlVF.rt 1,1 NIC to UAI/riMOItB,
ihcace roll; daily. Limit 30 duye; stopovers.
i
Judge Pritchard Holds Without
Effect Antenuptial Contract
Accepting Annuity.
HAS WIDOW'S DOWER RIGHT
Will Receive Her Share in Estate
Worth $350,000?Husband
Committed Suicide.
Holdhig the antenuptial contract i
signed liy Mrs Margaret Had ditto ;
'?ooch to no without force or effect, I
United Stales Circuit Judge Jeter C. !
I ritchard will cauM1 an order to bo
entered to-morrow setting aside the
agreement by which her late husband
1tied upon her an annual income of
f.f.iieo a>? long as she remained a widow,
id lieu of her wIilow's interest in an
estate valued at between J.IOO.joo and!
o.ooo.
I he trial, which had been in nropri'ps
since Monday. was the most extraordi
nary that lias come before the l.'nlted I
States District Court in years. It ended 1
in a sweeping victory for the twority-j
four-year-old widow, who. by virtue
of Judge Pr.ltchard's decision, will re
ceive as her share of the estate money '
and equities In real estate valued at
more than >100.000. instead of a bare
J3.000 annuity, during widowhood, to
which the dead man's*relnilves sought
to restrict her.
As C.ooch filed intestate, his property
went to his daughter by his first wile.
Mis. Annie Wayne Suhor. Kfforta on
the part of Mrs. Gooch to have h.*r
.lower rights realized by appeal to the
? ircuit < ourt of Mecklenlitirg (,'ountv
failed. The court appointed the Old
Dominion Trust Company curator of
the estate. Since Mrs. Hooch was her
self a resident r.f North Carolina, the'
? .ise was appealed t<. the United States
District i'ouit. where suit was brought
against Mr. and Mis Suhor and the
'?Id Dominion Trust Company.
1 hief Juti-e White, of -he United
.Mate* Supreme '" ?uit. designated <"ii
? nit Judge I'rit.-liard to sit fo: Judice
Udrnund Waddill, Jr.
m:? h\mii:mis ?ktti.k.uk\t
w ITIIOI T l.l'I'll.ATIIIN
? .? n ? ?.r 11 low thi? prenuptial con
":t 1 staid." announced Judge
r! " I. af'er both sides hail rested.
Die,-., rases, in in;, opinion, should!
ir<-fi>r;i id;. I.?? settle<l out of court bo
?ween the parties at Interest, and l
would ro om me ml that this he done jn
t i- .ise. Instead of allowing the
estate to he frittered away in lltltra- ,
'ion The contract, however, cannot1
??? upheld. 1 shnll look further into
'he authorities, and. ur,les? | am con- :
??? Mned to ohanue my present opinion,
,;i 'ir'' w 111 he entered accordingly
on Monday inornltip '
T;.e you ii c widow, who had been'
?.?i' h fully attended bj her mother
throughout the trvlnp week, ar-ise
Horn her seat near counsel and re- j
tired to a window In the rear of the
courtroom, he re she bowed her head
and wept. The trial had caused her ?
to bare personal experiences, which had
been trying In the extreme Victory'
was on her side, hut she was overcome j
by h?r feelings. In a few minutes she i
recovered sufficiently to receive the
congratulations of friends.
?fudge Pritchard spoke tn a low tone,
which was barely audible in the rear
of the courtroom. The "mysterious
woman" who had followed with n high
degree of interest every turn of the
proceedings for the entire week came
forward to the clerk's desk and verl
fled the verdict Th*n she slipped out
of tlie courtroom and disappeared.
Beyond the fact that to this woman
? Joooh cave many valuable presents
during the few months that preceded
his marriage, nothing wa* known about
t her. She had nothing to gain bv a de- j
cislon either way ?nothing further I
j than the gratification of R deep per
sonal Interest, the origin of which .-ho
( aloiio knew.
? !? or Mrs Hooch the ca?o was handled
| by Attorney r. P. Ituford. of Lawrence
j vlile; '? T HnskervIUe. of Hoydton. and
I .- E. Williams, of Uexington, N. C. At? !
torney s. s P Patteson. of Richmond
: was counsel for the Suborn and the
| Old Dominion Trust Company.
Counsel for Mrs. Gooch said that It !
: was probable that Judge Prltchard's i
advice about settling the case out of
| court would l?e acted upon. in the
; event that no such adjustment Is made,
the case may be taken to the United
States circuit Court of Appeals.
I\TKIt i:stj \r. STORV
IS TOM) TO COI'HT
The story that was unfolded to the
court by distinguished counsel was a'
remarkable one. w. H. Oooch. of
Clarksvllle. wealthy, post fifty and
; divorced for twenty years, met and fell
i in love with Miss Margaret Radclitte
of Uexlngton. X. c? young and prejtty?;
Ja teacher of music, at the Rolling
! Springs High School. After a court
ship. In which there figured rumors
! of the man's entanglements with other
j women, leading to a breaking off the
{engagement and the return of valuable
j presents. Miss Radclitte and Oooch
were mauled In Lexington. N*. C., on
October .14, 1915. Tho two left for the
\N est. where a honeymoon of several
weeks was spent. On the way back.
while the train was speeding through
Texas. Oooch left his brido for a fow
minutes to go Into another car. and
there shot himself through the head.
He w ft s dead when the conductor
reached him. That was on November
14?the brides twenty-fourth birthday.
No motive for the suicide was over
established.
When the shock had spent Itself and
the young widow had donned mourning,
(here followed In the. course of time
(he business of seltllng up the estate.
It was then, according to counsel for
Mrs. Ciooch, (hut she discovered that
her late husband had misled her into
signing a prenuptial agreement, which
deprived her of her widow's dower
(Continued on Second Page.)
TEUTONS IN DISORDERLY FLIGHT
BEFORE SAKHAROFF-S FORCES
Kxurtiiig an unknown toll of death anil with a property loss of millions of dollars, with wrecked towns and villages, the flood in the Carolinas has
nt last subsided. The photograph is a graphic illustration of the condition of Ashcville, N. C.
I rack* W ill j$(. Lowered From Acca
t" Cnry Street tm A creed
IMan.
W'lllTK ,M.\ KKS A\\()I"XOEMKXT
Work Will lieuin as Soon as City ;
Carries Out Cmlcrtakin? to Pro-'
vi?le Drainage in Parallel Streets.
Working on Station Plans.
President William H. White, of the
Richmond. Fredericksburg and Potomac i
Railroad Company. Just before leaving!
the clt.v yesterday afternoon for the
week-end. announced that the contract
f<"-r t ne depression of the Kelt Line
Railroad tracks had been awarded to,
\\ Ins-'on & i railroad contractors, of
Richmond and Xe\v York. The work.!
which will represent an expenditure of'
about ? N ,nM w||, hn papJ
rled out under P|n? agreed to by
'""X 'he ,ity and the railroad com.
pany.
The rmi Mne tracks. allowing th*
extenslf'i of .Monument Avenue and
other West i:nd streets and the open
c "r a vast territory In the western
section of the ritv. will be lowered for
some distant. The work will start at
c"a Station. terminating at the farv
Street Hoart. and will require appnixf. I
rnately f>r(> year for completion. The'
contract ?v?* awarded on the unit
basts
There w/?re ?.0:t,0 ricj1t 0|. ,erj hlfl
submitted for the work, all from well'
known ,and substantial companies hut
Winston .& i-o. made the lowest pro
posal. The matter was discussed at
ilie recular monthly meeting of the
road's directors Thursday, hut no an
nouncement of th* award was made
until late voFtnrrlay. when the con
tractors were advised that thev had
received ,i?, awaM. It Is planned to
start work at once, that as much head
way as possible may be made before!
th.- unfavorable weather of fall
in. '
I CITY >11 ST Ft l.KII.I,
ITS I'AItT OK A(,ukkjik\t;
The work of the Richmond. Fred
ericks!..irt and Potomac Railroad Com
pany. however. Is dependent upon the
city fiilfllline its part of the agree- i
ment in providing a proper drainage I
system for the tracks and surrounding
territory. It was learned last night
that railroad officials had advised the i
Administrative Hoard of their action in
awarding th* contract, and suggesting
that the city start Its work at once It!
Has been suggested that, for the benefit
of hoth the company and the city and
in order that the work mav be com
Pleted quickly, that one contractor be
given the contract for both Jobs
It is understood that the railroad
company will not allow the contractor
to start its work until the city |s also
| ready to so ahead with Its part of the
agreement. official, said yesterdav
that the company could not start ex
captions, which in some instances
I " ill be as much as eighteen feet, until
there is a proper drainage svstem i?
j stalled, as all the surface water would
J collect in tho roadbed. This would
obstruct quick work on the improve
ment. and probably block trains that
; will use the tracks.
. The Ilnel4 forming a helt around thn
,c.ty as it does for the transfer of
heavy freight traffic, will continue to
handle trains, it was stated vesterdav
while tho tracks are being depressed
i statement could he secured from tho
contractors last night, but it was
I learned that they are ready to go for!
ward with the work as soon as directed
j by the railroad.
PV.A.VS FOR MOW STATION
TO nn UK AMY SIIOUTI.Y
Sn attempt will be made by the com
, pan>. it is said, to use the Belt Lino
. for passenger service until the tracks
are depressed, for the official* fear that
;it would tie up their schedules and
l?ro\e too slow for such traffic. This
.work will not. however, hold up p,?n"
. . nftw End station, for
which architects and engineers are
now preparing working p|nns. Kngl
'Continued on Sccond~PageT
to?;- ?cur?~
Buckroe Bench next NVedneadny.?Advf?
? ? y ' ? r;*v .
? ? 4EV*nV; t*
SECURES BIG ORDER
Hid for Furnishing 300,000 Shells
for Allies Is Accented by
Cable.
WILL UK DONK AT LOCAL PLANT
Order, Said t?? Amount to Nearly
812,000,000. Has Been Pending
for Some Weeks, and Was dosed
on Friday Afternoon.
Tho manufacture of war munitions
for the- allied powers of Europe will
be continued for probably six to eight
months at the Richmond branch of the
American Locomotive Works, following
the closing by the general offices of
1 be company in New York of a large
contract for high-expluslve shells,
which Is said to be worth Jl'.nnn.noo in
round flcrures. The report, -which be
came known in Richmond financial cir
cles late yesterday, was confirmed last
nlcht by a high official of the coin
pa ny.
The entire ordi>r, which consists of
about ."tnn.ftrtn eight-Inch high-explosive
shells, will be fllled al the Richmond
plant. It was learned. and will be suf
ficient to k^ep It at Its present work
until early nevt sprine. The contract
was confirmed Friday afternoon at. 5
o'clock, but did not become known
<>von in Wall Street until after the
market bad closed yesterday.
It was known that a largo war order
was pendine. which had been in the
market for some time, but for several
weeks it seemed impossible to reach
a price agreeable to both parties. The
American Locomotive Company made
a strong bid for the order when the
inquiry was first made, but later re
ports were to the effect that Its do
mestic business was of sufllclent size
as not to warrant further dealings
in war supplies.
OH DKII WAS COM-MIt m:i>
I1Y CAR 1.13 ON I'll IDA V
Within the past few days, however,
the negotiations reached their final
stage. The company, it was stated on
excellent authority, was advised Friday
afternoon at F> o'clock by cable from
England that its bid had been accepted. \
An oflicer, who had been spending sev- !
oral days in New York, immediately!
returned to Richmond to complete all i
arrangements for filling the order here. ]
j The local plant expects to start work
'on the order in the next few days.
It was recarded as unusual that the :
news of the large order did not leak
1 in New York financial circles, but ef- 1
1 forts 01' The Times-Dispatch last night!
to secure a statement from that city'
brought no reply. President Marshall 1
| left the < ,ty immediately after receiv- i
j ing the cablegram, and another of
! ficer, tho only other one in a position
j to know of the contract, also left the
i city. The stock wires yesterday car
| ricd no mention of the order, but It
| became'known in Richmond last night,
j and was later continued.
i American Locomotive stock on the!
' New York .Stock Exchange, however,
i opened yesterday at 05 1-1 and jumped I
I to f?7 1--I at the close. There was aj
j slight decline in the stock last. week.
The local plant expects to complete '
its initial munitions contract within
! the next week or ten days.
| M'CORMICK IN WASHINGTON !
i Confer* Willi I'reslUeut null Party
I.cutler* on Plan* for Demo
crntlc Campaign.
WASHINGTON. July 22.?Vance Mc
Cormick, chairman of tho Democratic
National Committee, conferred with
President Wilson, Senators and Rep
resentatives, and other Democratic
leaders here on the Democratic cam
paign and details of the plans for re
j electing a Democratic Senate and
House. The first definite work of this
kind will be done in Maine, where the
Democrats will put forth their best ef
forts.
President Wilson has his speech of
acceptance well under way, although he
will not comploto it until after former
Justice Hughes delivers his speech of
acceptance in New York on July 31.
Mr. McCormick said to-day that he
had not yet completed the selection of
the campaign committee of the national
committee, hut expected to make head
way to-day In his conferences here.
DEUTSCKIiND REMAINS i
III PIER IN BtLTIMOHE
No Application for Clearance Papers
Made Yet by Captain,
It Is Stated.
IjITTLK activity at wharf
Prediction Made in Norfolk That tlie
Bremen Will Kilter Capes Refore
Monday?Warships of Allies Are
Vigilant.
BALTIMORK, MD.. July 22?While
no record exists of the German imder
tt'iitcr liner Deutschland, having" cleared
or made application for clearance pa
pers. u visit of Captain Frederick
llinsi'h, superintendent of the subma
rine's pier, lo the custom-house before
noon to-day cavo rise to a report that
he had tiled clearance papers for the
submersible. According to an employee
of the custom-house late this after
noon, no application has been made.
Captain llinsch himself, when asked
nboiit the matter, said:
"You ought to know that the cap
tain is the only one who can file clear
ance papers."'
Captain Paul Koeuig, commander of
the Deutschland, did not leave the im
mediate vicinity of the pier all day, as
far as could he ascertained.
There was little activity about the
Deutschlaiul's wharf to-dav. The ne
gro stevedores were paid off this after
noon and told to report acain on .Mon
day morning.
a it it i va i? ok ihiemen
ItlOKOItE >I(IM)AV Pit EDH''l'EI>
NORFOLK, VA., July 22.?From the
same source that two weeks ago to
night predicted the arrival of the
giant merchant submersible Deutsch
land within a few hours to-day came
the declaration that her sister ship, the
Bremen, will pass the ??apes before
Monday.
While not supported by any official
authority, the declaration aroused the
greatest interest here because of the
informant's correct forecast of the
coming of the Deutschland. The news
quickly spread alone the coast, and
to-night many vessels are working to
ward Cape Henry to be present in case
the Bremen does arrive within the
next few hours. Along the beaches
many eyes a.re straining for a sight of
the second submersible. Italn is fail
ing. however, and the skies have been
overcast all day, so i! is doubtful if
more than a few fortunate enough to
pick up the Bremen with llteir search
lights, In case of her arrival by night,
will see her.
Should the Bremen arrive, she is ex
pected to obtain a Maryland pilot and
proceed at once to Baltimore. The
pickitiK up of a Virginia pilot by the
Deutschland was not .according to plans
made before her arrival, and delayed
her docking at Baltimore somewhat.
German sources here say this will not
happen with the Bremen.
Despite announcement from Balti
more that the Deutschland did not se
cure clearance papers at the custom
house there, to-day, reports here were
that, the submersible had cleared for
Germany, and these caused credence to
he given to the report that the Bremen
may arrive soon. Marine men here
pointed out. that announcement of the
clearance of the Deutschland may have
been withheld at Baltimore In the in
terest of neutrality.
There is a constantly growing belief
here that tlie Bremen will pass into tho
capes about the time of the departure
| of the Deutschland. Suggestion lias
been made that it is part of the Ger
man plan to have tho two subniersibles
In the capes at tho Hame time, so as
to confuse tho allied warships now
lying about eight miles out in tho At
lantic. It is thought the Bremen might
slip into the three-mile limit without
| the knowledge of tho allied crews and
j tako a position in full view of them,
while the Deutschland passed out under
water.
FIRKS SHOT ACROSS IIOW
OK UK IDENTIFIED VESSEL,
One of the allied warships, pre
sumably British, flred a shot across the
(Continued on .Second Page.)
NIAGARA FAM.fi EXCURSION
..I1B round trip, .Inly 27. via YORK KIVF.R
MNK to Baltimore, thencs Pennsylvania. U.
It. Limit 16 Jays. Stopovori returning.
CRAIG CULLS ON STATE
TO AID FLOiO SUFFERERS
North Carolina Governor, in Procla
mation, Asks for Contribu
tions to Fund.
COMMITTEE IS APPOINTED
Many Persons in Stricken Districts
Will Huve to He Sup|)lie<l With
Necessities or Life Until They Find
Means of livelihood.
RALEIGH N. C. July 22.?Because
of the utter destitution In parts of
Western North Carolina, resultJng from
the floods of last week, Governor Craig
to-day issued n proclamation calling
upon the people of the more fortunate
sections of the State to contribute to
the aid of the storm sufferers.
"There Is every reason to believe,'
. declared the Governor, "that many will
' for weeks have to he supplied with
the necessities of life in order that
they may he sustained until they can
find a means of livelihood."
A general relief committee Is appoint
ed, with Edward E. Britton, of Raleigh,
a.s chairman. The appeal for aid will
be made onjy to -tho people of tlje
State, as the sentiment is general that
the Slate is amply able to take care
of its own.
A fund started hero by the N'ew.s nnd
Observer in being contributed to lib
erally, over SIM having been pledged
to-day.
The Governor's proclamation in full
follows:
"To the People of North Carolina:
"A great disaster has befallen 11 large
region of our State; hundreds of people
sire homeless and helpless. At this time
I cannot describe th? extent, of the
damage done by the unprecedented
floods of July 15 and It!, nor can I
undertake to portray the present and I
prospective suffering. Ry reason of the !
fact that Ashevllle has been cut ft! |
from communication with the outside!
world I could not be as promptly and I
adequately informed of conditions as j
others. But I am now prepared to say
that along our western streams, large I
and small, runoiug eastward from j
Wilkes on the north to Rutherford on j
the south, in the mountains, the floods |
have swept away not only the homes
and the growing; crops, but even the i
lands themselves of hundreds, if not
thousands, of our fellow-nion and wo
men. They are in distress, and many
of them utterly destitute and help
less. Their nil has been swept away
in ;i night.
THINKS AM. MHOI'Ll)
SII Alt K THIS II L it OF. V
"Now, therefore, I, Locko Craig, Gov
ernor of the State o'f North Carolina,
am calling upon our generous people
to respond to tbe cry of those who
have been so terribly stricken. There
is every reason to believe that many
will for weeks have to bo supplied with
the necessities of life. In order that
they may be sustained until they can
Hnd a means of livelihood. It is but
right thnt our entire people should
share this burden?but reasonable that
the people in regions of the s*tate tu
which no damage was done, where
crops were spared and home undis
turbed, should open their hearts In gen
erous giving.
"I understand that a number of local
subscriptions have been started, and
that at least two relief committees have
begun work. It Is not my desire to
interfere with their work. I take oc
casion, rather, to commend them. At
the same time, the disaster is so ex
tensive, tTie work of relief so great,
that I feel constrained to appoint a
committee of general relief and to au
thorize it lo take subscriptions and to
appropriate funds as needs appear.
Every dollar shall be accounted for,
and every penny shall go to relieve
actual need.
"Subscriptions may be sent to Kdward
E. Britton. chairman, Raleigh, N. C.
"I am slure our people, once they
realize the distress of their fellow
North Carolinians, will be quick to
pour out their money In this noble
cause."
CONDITIONS ARK TOI.II
IIV GOV Kit N Oil CRAIG
CHARLOTTE, N. C\. July 22.?Gover
nor Locke Craig, maronjied at Ashe
vllle, his home city, since last Sunday
(Continued on Fourth l'age.)
ALLIED OFFENSIVE
NOW IS CENTERED
DN RUSSIAN FRONT
Important Victory in Salient
at Junction of Lipa and
Styr Rivers.
MORE THAN 12,000 MEN
CAPTURED IN TWO DAYS
Kuropatkin Still Pressing For
ward Against Von Hinden
burg on Dvina Line.
NO RTIUKINO YEWS FROM WFRT
Lively Artillery Duels Continue
North mid South of the
fiomme.
Austro-German forces continue to he
driven toward the northern border of
Gallcla by Russian troops under Gen
eral Sakharoff. the Czar's army having
captured 12,000 prisoners on Thursday
and Friday. Fighting west of Beres
tochk still continues. Further suc
cesses are attending the attempts of
the Russians to enter the Hungarian
plains from Bukowlna. Minor defeat*
for the Austrians south of Delatyn an>
reported from Petrograd.
Lively artillery duels continue north
and south of the Somme. The Germans
are reported to lie using gas shells,
and the British are replying vigorously
to the bombardment, further attempts
to advance by either the Anglo-French
or German forces are reported.
In Turkish Armenia the Hussians are
progressing in their advance toward
JCrzingan. Grand Duke Nicholas's mon
also have made progress along the
Black Sea coast.
Additional successes for the British
and Belgians against the Germans in
German ICast Africa are claimed. The
Germans have lost a number of pris
oners as well as several towns; and
Lieu tenant-General Smuts, the British
commander, reports the occupation of
the whole of the Usainbara Railway,
A new Turkish movement against the
Suez Canal in reported from London,
which says that the Turks now are
iotrenching at Katla, thirty miles oast
of (he canal. Rrltish mounted troops
are reported to be in contact with tho
Tu rks.
Berlin announces the sinking by Ger
man submarines on July 17 of six Brit
, ish trawlers off the English cast coast.
The Rrltish steamers Wolf, of 2,443 tons,
and Karma, of 2,351 tons, and the
French steamer Cnttois, of 1,300 tons,
have been sunk.
SHIFT OF nitlVKS I'llP.VBXTS
Tit A XSPKK OF TnOOPS
LONDON', July 22.?The entente
| allied offensive, which swings between
! the western and eastern fronts with
almost clocklike regularity, and In \
manner almost completely to prevent
! the central^ powers from making any
| considerable transfers of troops from
J front to front, now is centered on the
Russian front. Tfie forces under Gen
eral Sakha rod.' hnvi' taken the offensive
energetically, and their victory In the
salient formed by the Junction of the
Lipa and Styr Rivers southwest of
I Lutsk to-day appears to be much more
| important than either tho official
claims from Pc-trograd or tho Aujstro
German admissions of yesterday indi
cated.
General Sakharoff has the enemy re
treating in disorderly flight before his
farces. Having forced the passages of
i the Styr and Lipa, tho Russian troops
already are beyond Berestechk. having
j In two dnvs' fighting taken prisoner
from the Austro-Gorman forces 30<>
officers and 12,o:?i> men. In'addition,
the Russians have captured a quantity
of war booty. The number of Austro
Gerntan prisoners captured in the op
erations on the eastern front since
July 11'? now totals 2(1,000.
By bin success In driving the Austro
German armies from the Styr-Lipa
: salient. General Sakharoff has estab
lished his forces firmly on the right
; hank of the Lipa up to about twenty
kilometers (about thirteen miles) above
its confluence with the Stvr.
Meanwhile, General Kuropatkin Is
; still pressing forward against ?the
forces of Field Marshal von Mlnden
burg on tho Dvina front, south of Riga
(and not th of Smorgen. According to
military critics In Petrograd, a battle i^
In preparation in the neighborhood of
Kovel, the objective of the Russian
drive across the Stokhod, which will
prove one of the most important con
flicts of the whole war.
No striking news was received from
the western .front to-day, except reporta
of heavy artillery actions by botb
; aides.
British troops operating In the north
eastern section of German East A trie*
have occupied Muheza and Amani, ano
have captured the whole of the Usarn
l>ara railway, according to ti.n officio.!
: announcement made here to-day.
The British press gives great proml
; nence to statements published In tlir
French press and credited to Goners
j J off re and Sir Douglas Itaig, the Brit
I ish commander. The formor Is re
I ported as saying that the tntenfe slllei
j now have the whip hand over ths ceil
1 tral powers, while General Hale *?yi
