I" 1. .- -V'-t-'S
Thuiiderhowr4 to-day; to-morrow
fair; gantle to moderate ahlfting winds.
Highlit temperature yeeteritay, to; loweit, 70.
Detailed weathsr, mill and marina report! on page .
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII.t-NO. 327.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JULY 23, 1916 . Conright, Itll, ay the Sun Printing and PuUltMng Aetoctation.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
&
h
GUARDSMEN IN
ANGER, ANXIOUS
TO COME HOME
Men Believe They Are Made
Pawns in Political
Game.
SOLDIERS FEAR FOR
THEIR DEPENDENTS
Ninety Per Cent, of Them
Dissatisfied and Dis
contented. REGULARS CRITICISE
RECENT MOBILIZATION
Call State Organizations
"Slipshod,". From Mili
tary Standpoint.
f I a llaf Ctrrttponitnt of Til Id.
Browmsvilue, Tex., July 22. Under
Ita flrat severe teat the National Guard
la breaking down, and through no fault
of Its own.
Ninety per cent, of the men are dis
satisfied nnd discontented and are anx
ious to Ret back home to their work
and their families.
This statement may come as a sur
prise to a public that la being fed dally
by assurances from Washington that
everything is lovely along the Rio
Urande and that the mllltla are bub
bling with Joy over their present situa
tion and future prospects, but It Is the
Indelible truth, and any candid person
with persistence enough to get under
the surface of things can find It, out
for himself.
The officers of the regular army know
it and have spoken their minds about It
fc the correspondent of THS Sun In army
camps along the border for 100 miles
from this city to Fort Ringgold. Borne
officers of the National Guard ere per
fectly aware of It, but are trying to gloss
It over. They say that the dissatisfac
tion and discontent will wear off and
that the men will settle down happily to
Iz months cr so of professions! soldier
ing. It required no confidences from the
keenly concerned and distressed regular
officers to satisfy this wrter that the
mllltla are eager U,.ei' lease -from
the border and that they will be des
perately anxious within a few weeks.
Meat Talk Freely.
It was n simple matter of keeping
eves and rare open as one visited :h
camp nt Brownsville. Mercedes, Donna,
I'harr. McAllen. Mission and other troop
headquarters up the Rio Orande Vallev.
The men talk and talk freely If their
officer are not within hearing.
What I true of the mllltla from one
State I true of the mllltla from another.
The men from Indiana are just as un
happy and Just as worried as are the
men from Now York or the men from
Virginia or the men from Illinois. Tne
romptnlnta are heard wherever one goes.
Thee troop feel that they have been
buncoed liy Mr. Wilson, and the more
they think about It the madder they
get They can't shout their Indigna
tion, because that would mean punish
ment for them.
Properly enough, of course, under
military discipline they csn't Uke their
troubles and their very real grievance to
their own mllltla officers, because their
officers nre not sympathetic. This con
centration nt the border Is a very agree
able buslnes to the National Guard of
ficers for many reasons which cannot
possibly apply to the enlisted men.
But the enlisted men can tell the
newspaper correspondents what la In
their hearts. They flock around the cor
respondent nt every opportunity and
beg to know If there Is a chance of their
being sent back home In the near future.
They talk with a kind of pathetic help
lessness, like children, these grown men
who find themselves trapped by their
own patriotic seal, and it is Impossible
not to understand them, not to sympa
thize with them, not to want to tell the
whole truth about their plight
.Not Playing Sables.
Iet It be thoroughly and completely
understood that they are not trying to
play the baby act, that they are not
merely seeking to crawl out of the hard
labor of training In a climate as tropical
as Panama, and that they are not lying
down on the country. In no sense are
they quitters, but they have reasoned It
out among themselves as American citi
zens have a habit of reasoning things
out, and they have made up their minds
that they were tricked and deceived and
they are being kept here for the politi
cal purposes of the Administration.
That Is not offered as the guess of ths
reporter who writes this story. It Is an
absolutely accurate digest of minds of
28,000 militiamen whose camps the re
porter visited In the past week along
the Rio Grande,
They stayed In the National Guard
and responded enthusiastically to the or
der to go to the border, because they
wanted to fight for their country. They
wanted to play a part In helping their
country defend Itself and maybe pacify
a troublesome and dangerous neighbor.
They were assured and believed they
were going into Mexico.
Most of them were fired by patriotic
zeal purely, because moat of them are
fins types of Americans mentally, phys
ically and morally, Rome wanted to be
heroes and to. to tatl things they could
tell their' children about. Some craved
excitement. But the basis of enthusiasm
In every oase was the deslrs to fight, and
to get that chance they were willing lo
aubmlt cheerfully to all of the unneces
sary miseries that an Impossible
mobilisation forced upon them.
They were willing to settle down along
,tha Rio Orande for a month to wait for
complete equipment, to build themselves
UP physically, to better their discipline
If they were fairly and sincerely dealt
with. They believe now that they were
vary unfairly and vary Insincerely
treated. Thsy think they were purposely
deluded, and they sre beginning to get
mad.
It wilt be found within a few weeks
that Reoresentatlves In Congress will be
By isuers iroro weee men, isi-
CfaMid on fourth Pag.
MORE DEAD, FEWER
GASES OF PLAGUE
Out of , Town Quarantines
Stricter, as Paralysis
Beaches Climax.
WEEK'S MORTALITY 188
New Jersey Trims Back Many
New Yorkers Irrespec
tive of Apre.
Following the report yesterday of the
Health Department of n higher death
rate than ever before In the Infantile
paralysis epidemic nesrly sll towns
within a radius of 100 miles established
quarantine against children and adult
New Yorkera.
Thlrty-nlne children died yesterday In
the fivo boroughs, five deaths more than
in any previous twenty-four hours. The
numoer of new cases reported yesterday
waa IJS. This was not xrelv. .nA
showed, local and Federal health officers
said, that despite the Increased mortality
me disease was being controlled. Deaths
for the week ended yesterday totalled
IS1, S3 more than In the previous week.
The total number of new cases for the
week diminished by 1SS.
Dr. H. C. Lavtnder or the United
States public health aervlce ssld thst
he thought the quarantine established
by many of the suburban towns was un
necessary and In Instances worked mora
harm than good.
Oftea Defeats Its Paraase.
"In attempting to make a quarantine
too etrlct." said Dr. Lavlnder, "the
very object of the quarantine is often
defeated. It results In many Instances
In keeplng'perfectly well people out and
allows others whom they wished most
lo avoid to creep In. In other words,
when a quarantine la unreasonable it
angers merchants snd business men, who.
Instead of helping the authorities, aid
In beating ths quarantine. We have
had much experience of that kind down
South when we have been flthtlng yel
low fever. Common sense should rule
and local health officers should not be
unreasonable."
Dr. Lavlnder ssld thst he was In favor
of detention camps wherever a quaran
tine wss fixed. He did not favor any
such camp In New York at present. He
said, to establish such a camp here It
would be necessary to use the entire
National Guard.
Dr. Charles B. Banks, senior surgeon
in charge of the United States publlo
health servlc offleura h,.. nnn..MMt
yesterday thst he had sent 'several unl-
f riLm i 1 ean.-.. a a . m .
wiuru uiui-cra 10 ins iiuason Teminal
iiuuum 10 waicn an parsons entering
the Hudson tuha n n. i . . . .
by to-morrow he thoutht the Thirty-third
nirrei iuim stations would oe under the
irmpeciion.
"We really could use twenty-five men
in addition to ih rni'.. n- h,v, ..
said Dr. Hanks, "In order to guard all the
from tne c,uy. My men are at the
various railroad terminals for fouitecn
hours a day. There Is no doubt that
many places have put New Yorkers
under the ban. I got an official telegram
from New tendon to-day sa!ng that
New London, Norwich, Wllltmantlc and
way stations west would refuse New
Yorkers admittance.
"Wo are having trouble getting the
clerical help that we need nt the dif
ferent railroad stntlnnM Th rl.plt, ,1a.
claro that the hours wc work are too
long ana tney won t stick.
The Federal officers hove had so many
renllesta from nilulta tnr heiltl. oa.iln.
cstea that they are now ready to Issue
wiem, proviaeu me applicants come
armed with non-Infected premises cer
tlflcates Issued by the city Health De
psrtment. Five Cases In Oar Family.
Government doctors sent here to make
a clinical snd research study of the
disease reported an unusual Incident on
Btaten Island yesterday, five children In
one family with the dlsesse. It Is rare
that secondary rases occur. Another
case Interesting to the physicians was
ona In which a Staten Island lawyer,
owning a home with spacious grounds
and with practically all means of com
munication barred, had two children
with the disease.
The Federal health service officers
declared yesterday that railroads doing
Interstate business had no right to ac
cept for transportation any person suf
fering from the disease or to ship an
article known to have been exposed to
Infection.
The Commissioner of Health, Dr.
Haven Emerson, announced yesterday
aftsrnoon that despite the Increase In
deatha there had been no actual growth
of the malady. The number of cases re.
ported dally, ths Commissioner said, has
maintained a fair average. The drop of
Friday was unusual and could not be
explained.
Dr. Emerson ssld that the moving pic
ture houses would be closed to children
under If Indefinitely. They will not be
opened until the Health Department is
sura that there Is no further danger of
Infection. The Commissioner declared
that he did not think it waa necessary
to extend this order to children's play
grounds. When asked regarding a story
published yesterday In a Brooklyn pa
per to the effect that the city officials
were contemplating keeping the public
schools closed until after the opening
dates in September, he said:
"I know nothing of that, and don't be
lieve anything of that kind has been un
der consideration nt this time."
Warned Against Nostraass.
Dr. Oscar M. Lelser. Assistant Direc
tor of Public Health Education, warned
the public yesterday against numerous
quacks, and patent medicine fakers who
have come to life with sudden energy on
account of the epidemic. He said that
all kinds of concoctions nre being foisted
on a worried public eager to snatch at
anything which they are told will pro
tect their children.
"Solutions that cost five or ten cents
a gallon are being sold at a dollar a bot
tle," said Dr. Lelser. "The public should
be warned against these remedies, which
are not only useless, but In many oases
harmful,
"Some of the so .-ailed cures which the
Ignorant of the East Side have at
tempted to use have been both humor
ous and pathetic, Bomewhers the story
waa circulated that bathing children In
ox blood would cure the Infection or
prevent It. Consequently the Health
Department haa reports of many per
sona who have visited the slaughter
houses with pails in which to carry home
Continued on Biath Pag.
AND
FLATS TO INVADE
UPPER FIFTH AVE'
Gen. Bryco to Build 12 Story
Apartment on 97th Street
Corner.
Persons like Wlllard D. Straight, John
Russell i'onc, Frederick Vanderbllt, Otto
H. Kahn and Robert 8. Clark, who re
cently have built fine homes or have
purchased sites for thsm In ths Fifth
svenue section north of Andrew Car
negie's house because they believed that
section would be free from spsrtmrnt
houses that have entered the Sixties and
Seventies, are to be disappointed, for
Oen. Lloyd 8. Bryce. formerly one of
the chief supportsrs of the residential
chsrneler of Fifth avenue, has decided
to build a twelve story apartment house
In the very heart of the beat part of the
new Fifth avenue, on a corner he owns
at Ninety-seventh street
Plana for the new structure filed yes
terday by Shape A llready call for a
decidedly attractive building, which will
cost Gen. Ilryce about 1900.000. but even
so fine a building Is not expected to ap
pease nearby residents, some of whom
have gone to great expense to keep out
Just that type of Improvement. For In
stance. Wlllard D. Straight, who only
recently completed his home at Fifth
avenue and Ninety-fourth street, paid
1300,000 for the opposite corner so that
no apartment' might be erected there.
It Is, not unlikely that ths apartment
venture may stop what waa expected to
be one of the finest home Improvements
In the city, for the blockfront Just below
the apartment site, that from Ninety
sixth lo Ninety-seventh street, wss pur
chased by John Russell Pope as a sits
for two homes, one of which, according
to the best information obtainable. Is to
be for Frederick Vanderbllt. Robert
Clark bought a corner at Ninety-ninth
street as a site for his new home, which
along with others may now be aban
doned because there Is no assurance that
the section will be kept free from lower
ing apartments.
The new Bryce house wilt be the larg
est of the four that have Invaded the
Fifth avenue district. It will cover eight
lots fronting 100.11 feet on the avenue
and 1(0 feet on the street The nearest
apsrtment house at this time to the new
residential district la at Elchtv-flrst
street, where stands the pioneer of Fifth
avenue.
PARADE IN UWDERWEA1,
Wyoatlag Oaardesaea, Teaeata
I.easea, Forced Back ay Bayoaets.
Chstinni, Wyo.. July Jf. Wvomlns
guardsmen added another underwear
riot last night to the list of mllltla dis
turbances caused by enlisted men over
supplies given them in the mobilisation
Of the STUard. Two slsea of underwear.
JS.and 41 chest measure, hsve been dis
tributed. The men claim that a man
built to wear either of these sizes would
not be built to be admitted to the army
under tlje physical requirements.
To show their tlisaDDrov.il a hundred
guardsmen put on the misfit underwear
and nothing else and started tn Invade
Cheyenne. They marched to the city
limits anu were auout to enter town
when they were halted by n detail of
armed guardsmen ent out from the
camp. The commanding officer of the
detail was forced to order his men to
use bayonets before the lightly clad men
gave up their plan.
A XILLI0N ACRES AT $2.50.
Great Tracts to Be Thrown Opea
to Settlers la Fall.
1'obTi.and, Ore., July 22. Approxi
mately a million acres of agricultural
lands of the Oregon and California land
grant will be thrown open to entry nnd
settlement by fall. It was announced here
to-day by the United States Land Office.
Settlers will be permitted to file on
tracts of mo acres each, paying the
Government tl'.SO an acre.
These lands, which were granted to the
Oregon and California Railroad Com
pany have been in litigation for years.
The Government sued to enforce the
terms and won the case In the United
States Supreme Court. Recently Con
gress passed an enabling act to restore
the lands to entry, but the Southern
Pacific Company, which succeeded to
the Interest of the Oregon and California
Company, has served notice that It would
refuse to abide by the act and that It
Intended to fight the case anew through
the courts.
TALK OF QUITTING BELGIUM
f 10,000,000,000 ladesaalty Grrinaa
Demand, Amsterdam Hears.
AwsTinbAM, via London, July 22.
Posters have been pasted on the walls
of barracks In Ghent stating that nego
tiations have been opened between the
United States and Germany for the
evacuation of Belgium, according to the
Kcho Beige, which Is now published in
Holland. According to the posters, Ger
many Is prepared to withdraw from Bel
glum on the payment of an Indemnity
of 40,000,000,000 marks ( 1 10, 000, 000,
000, The Kcho Beige comments sarcasti
cally on this proposal, tennlng the pro
posed Indemnity "a mere fleablte."
FORD FOB GOVERNORSHIP.
Ferrls's Refasal to Ran Agala
Pats PaclBst la stare.
DzTSOiT. July 22. The definite re
fusal Friday by Gov, Ferris to become
a candidate for a third term has brought
Henry Ford to the front and he Is to
day the central figure In Democratic
State politics speculation. liy declar
ing for Ford for Democratic candidate
for United States Senator several days
ago, Chairman Stevenson of the State
Central Committee brought the capital
ist into the limelight and it look about
two minutes for Democratic lenders to
switch "Governor" for "United Stales
Senator."
Ford has not yet been approached by
the Democrats.
JEAN CRONES BOBS UP AGAIN.
gasperted Polseaer Bongkt at Wis,
cnnsln Lake Resort Hotels,
Chicaqo, July 22. Detectives to-day
began a round up or cooks employed nt
Wiscrnsln lake resort hotels following
the discovery of a flue that may lead
to the arrest of Jean Crones, who gained
wide fame by trying to poison Arch
bishop George W. Mundrleln and a
score of prominent citizens of Chlcsgo
gatnerea at tne university Club last
February to welcome the Roman Oarhette
prelate to Chicago,
NEW YORK PRESS
ALAN SEEGER, POET WARRIOR
DIES FIGHTING FOR FRANCE
American Member of Foreign Legion, Who Wrote
Vivid War Stories for "The Sun," Killed
on the Somme.
srfsf CakU Dtipatth Is Tas Sck.
Paris, July ,22. Alsn Seeger, the
young American member of the Frenih
Foreign Legion whose vivid word pic
tures of the fighting from the Marne
to the Somm4 have appeared from time
to time In Ths Bun, wss killed severst
days ago In sn attack on the Somme
line, according to a letter receive I hete
Irom his corporal, who Is sn English
man. The letter, which U dated July IS,
says :
"We are Just back after tbs offensive
on the Somme. Our regiment waa al
most annihilated, but It covered Itself
with glory
"I sincerely regret td have to an
nounce th? death of poor Alan Seeger
and that Delpuech waa badly wounded,
but It la not known If Delpuech la alive
or dead."
Alan Seeger, a graduate of Harvard,
'10, had been living In. Paris for several
years prior to the outbresk of the war.
He was one of the first Americana to
volunteer for- service tn the Foreign
Legion. At the front he soon proved a
born soldier, ills enthusiasm for the
cause of France, his Inherent American
sense of humor and his unusual bravery
won the admiration of his comrsdes and
the praise of his superiors. He waa 2$
years old on May 22 last.
Shortly sifter going to the front he
sent letters to Tlir. Kun through Its
Paris correspondent, and the literary
world of America and England fixed Its
gaze on this young American volunteer,
discovering that here was a genius, a
writer and poet of extraordinary talent.
Ills vivid word pictures of life In the
trenches published tn Tttx Sun were
quoted throughout this country snd
England. William Archer, the English
critic, referring to one of them, said:
"In point of literary form It Is the best
thing of Its kind I have seen." Occa
sionally .Seeger sent a poem, esch re
vealing a talent and originality of great
promise. Here Is one of ths striking
passages from a letter he wrote last
February from a ruined French town :
"Most pathetlo to me waa a lrttle
girl's post card collection cards from
all over Europe, with their little mes
sages of love or greeting But most
precious were the remains of a beautiful
library, the last thing to be violated by
the rude hands that have ransacked
everything else and left not a bottle of
wins In the whole town.
"Here, stacked Just as they were be
fore the Invasion, I found finely bound.
Immaculate sets of Volta,, Corneille
and Racine. "Tfie wtnA ana rain that
blew In through the Immense rents In
the walls had not yet hamr-ed them In
the least.
"I took away a few of these volumes,
esteeming that the pIouh duty of res
cuing sn "old book doomed otherwise to
certain destruction might absolve me
NEW SIGNS PLANNED
FOR R. R. CROSSINGS
Uniform System Throughout
Country to Warn Motorists
Is Recommended.
Public service commissions and rail
road companies all over the country are
cooperating In formulating a uniform
system of protection for grade cross
ings. The National Association of Rail
way Commissioners and the American
Railway Association, the official bodies
undertaking thin work, have named
committees which have recommended
a system of protection that will be the
same everywhere, so the motorist will
be put to no trouble recognizing the
various signs nt crossings.
Cautionary signs are to be placed 300
feet from railroad tracks Instead of
only fifty or sixty feet away, The new
signs, If adopted, will be. circular disks
two feet In diameter, surmounting n
pole, with a large black cross painted
on thorn and the letters "R. R." Inserted
above the horizontal arm. Where neces
sary the signs will be lighted at night,
and red will be the uniform color.
According to the latest figures In the
hands of the committees, during ths
year ending June SO, 1SH, there were
1,147 persons killed and S,35 Injured
In grade crossing accidents throughout
the country,
It Is also planned to have flagmen
hold aloft a white disk marked "Stop,"
Instead of a flag, for the various colored
flags used In the past have often been
misinterpreted by automoblllsts.
WHITE SHARK CAPTURED.
HBO Pound Fish Caught In 'Jamaica
Bay.
' A white shark, one of the most vicious
of the shark family, was caught In Ja
maica flay yesterday afternoon by Will
iam Cring, Jr., of Avenue N, Boardwalk,
Canarsle, and Harry Fuller, nlso of Ca
narsle. Both men say they know It Is
a white shark because they have seen
them before several times. This fish Is
6 feet 6 Inches long nnd weighs about
SCO pounds not large for Us species btlt
large enough to kill u man. ,
The men were fishing for sharks In an
eighteen foot skiff. They hooked this
one near Buoy 2, In the chnnnel. Their
hook was balled with a wenkflsli head.
They landed the shark afler a 45 minute
fight and It was placed on view in front
of Crlng'a home.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST General Newt, Automobilei
SECOND Spotting. Kenneli
THIRD Newt o( the Resorti, Fashions, Reel Estate. Drama, Schcoli, Cardent
FOURTH Pictorial Mafuuie
FIFTH Special Feature Section
SIXTH Editorial, Foreign, Books, Queries, Financial, Problemi, Cheii ,
Total
Ruivi tr nstMtWfj uo A nef iuttt til ! ikm mlltnt till centr a seer
mJTAs Sun" h nUlfatnt lA PMtmUtn DMtrtmmt aianutu ikt pktm
(2290 Busman) and mlulnt mlhm will k promptly ftrwrJtJ ij poufMi.
from the gravity of the charge that such
an act made me liable to."
During the Allied offensive In Cham
pagne Mat fall Seeger wrote :
"Most of the others are taking advan
tage of the opportunity to pass Into the
Uth of the line, but I have decided to
stay with the Moroccan division, with
which 1 think there will be the best
chances of variety of action and adven
ture." Seeger hod a narrow escape In Febru
ary of hut year when a bullet from a
sniper's rifle penetrated the left sleeve
of his coat, grazing the skin.
The day of battle he hailed thus In
ona of his letters :
"It will be a happy day for all of us,
for uncomfortable Inaction haa more ter
rors than shell and steel."
Seeger wrote a remarkable poem In
memory of the American volunteers
fallen for Franca for the occasion of
unveiling or the statue of Lafayette nnd
Waahlngton in Paris on Decoration Dsy,
May 10, Ills. Some excerpts follow:
Ay, It is nttlng en this holiday,
Commemeratlve of our soldier desit,
Whea, with sweet flowers of our New
England slay
Hiding the llchtned atene by fifty years
made gray.
Their zraves in every town are ear
landed. That pious tribute should be given too
Tn our Intrepid few
Obscurely fallen here beyond the sea.
Thole to preserve thtlr country's great-
neti died;
But by the death of these
Something that we can't leek upon with
pride
Has been achieved, nor wholly unreplltd
Can sneerers triumph In the charts they
make
That from a war where Freedom was
at stake
America withheld and, daunted, stood
aside.
And 'tit meet to straw
With twigs of lilac end spring's earliest
rote
The cenotaph of those
Who In the causo that history meet en
dssrs Fell in the sunny morn and Sewer of their
young years.
Yet sought they neither recompense nor
I sratte.
Nor to be mentioned In snother breath
Than their blue coated comrades whose
rest days
It was their pride to shsre, ay I shsre
even to death.
Nay, rather. France, to you thsy rendered
thanks
(fleeing they came for honor, not for
gain).
Who. opening to them your glorious ranks,
(live them that grand occasion to excel.
That ehsnce to live the life most free
from stain
And that rare privilege of dying well.
And on those furthest rime of hallowed
ground ,
Where the ferlora. the gallant charge
expires.
When the elaln bugler hss long ceaaed to
sound.
And on the tangled wires
The last wild rally atasgirs. crumbles,
stops.
Withered hentth the shrapnel's Iron
showers;
Now heaven be. thanked, ws gave a few
brsve drops.
Now hesven be thanked, a few brave
drops were ours!
MISS SVTPHEN SAVES
ROOSEVELT'S AIDE
V. J. Hayes, Military Secre
tary. Rescued After Bearing
Message to Oyster Bay.
OrsTzit lUr, N. T., July 22 Walter
J. Hayes, Col. Roosevelt's military sec
retary, was seized with cramps while
swimming here to-day and had u narrow
escape from drowning. He was rescued
by Miss Gladys Rutphen. daughter of W.
J. Hutphen. n New York broker, whose
Manhattan home Is at 483 West End
avenue.
Hayes came to Oyster Bay to-dny
bearing some papers for the Colonel.
Miss SMtphen. who Is staying at Island
dale, on the Mill River mad, nnd several
other bathers were swimming off the
Sagamore Inn dock. Hayes wss some
dlstunce out from the float when stricken.
Miss Sutplien, seeing his plight, went
tu the rescue, and Arthur Volght, In a
motor boat, also heard the cries for help.
Miss Sutphen helped to keep Hayes afloat
until the bont came alongside and he
could be lifted In. Both were nearly ex
hausted. Miss Sutphen is a cousin of Mrs.
Nathalie Schenk Lalmbeer, whose hus
band was killed In an automobile acci
dent near Ing Beach about two yearn
ago and whose father was n partner of
Osgoud Pell, who wss killed In the same
accident.
COWBOYS DROP IN ON T. B.
Colonel la Tickled ay Motor Party
In Wild Wast Regalia.
Otstks Bat. N. Y July 12 The
deep silence that has enshrouded Baza
more Hill for the past three weeks was
suddenly shattered to-day, when eight
wild nnd woolly cowboys called to pay
their respects to Col. Konsevelt. The
Colonel was greatly tickled by the visit,
having met several of the Westerners on
one of his trips to Cheyenne.
The cowboys, In their full Wild West
regalia, drove up to Sagamoro Hill In
an automobile. When the Colonel ap
peared, they let loose an ear splitting
cowboy yell. The Colonel retaliated
with one of his famous smiles nnd gave
each of the visitors a hearty hand shake.
Several of the cowpunchera performed
tricks with the lariat, much to the de
light of the Colonel, who continually
spurred the cowmen on with pleased
exclamations of "Bully!" nnd "Flnel"
"-ft
12
12
60
6 RILLED; 44 HURT
BY BOMB IN FRISCO
Infernal Machine Explodes
Amid Preparedness Parade
Sightseers.
San Francisco, July 22. At least
six persona were killed and forty-four
or more were Injured by the explosion
here to-day of a timed bomb concealed
In n suit case In the midst of a throng
viewing a preparedness parade.
The police arrested Frank Joseplison,
a lodger In a sailors' boarding house,
who cried "I didn't do It, I didn't do It,"
and trembled violently when hp was
being searched nt the station house. The
police said he had not been accused of
anything. Charles M. Flrkert, District
Attorney, Issued a statement attributing
the deed to n mind unbalanced by argu
ments for and against preparedness.
Josephson, the suspect, was arrested
while making a speech after the explo
sion In which he Is said to have lauded
anarchy and declared: "This Is nothing."
After his arrest, however, he said
that he Is not an nnarchlst and denied
having any knowledge of the bomb ex
plosion. The handle of the suit case
which contained the explosives, together
with part of the lock and pieces of
clockwork, were picked up near the
.cene. -
Several theories were put forward to
night by the police. One waa that the
owner of the suit case had Intended to
set It out along the linn of the parade,
but was delayed, and knowing the bomb
was timed, left it standing in the crowd.
The dead are:
Mas. II. E. Knapp. Alameda, Cal.
Dr. atoaas Painter, Berkeley, Cal.
O. II. Lambkrn, printer, Alameda, Cal.
GEOitot: Lawijcr, Mill Valley, Cal.
Arthur Nzi.sok, Larkspur, Cal.
Aoau Foz, San Francisco.
The explosion occurred at Steuart and
Market streets, two tilocks from the
ferry building, on Kan Francisco's main
thoroughfare. The bomb, concealed In
a suit case packed with cartridges, bul
lets, gss pipe, glass and scrap Iron, blew
a gap through the crowd, blasting men,
women, children nnd babies.
Holiday Throng; a Haamblrs.
The one story, brick building against
which the suit case stood was wrecked.
The holldsy throng, cheering a contin
gent of veterans of the First California
Infantry of the Spanish-American war,
became a shambles. The blare of fifty
bands and the roar of drums drowned
the cries of the injured, but the side
wnlk was strewn with torn bodies.
"Two women standing beside me were
blown to bits." said MrST KTffTy-Tn
I-oom of Oakland, who, with her two
children, was Injured. The police say
It is possible that some bodlrs weru
blown out of existence.
All the newspaper offices In Kan Fran
Cisco yesterday received h communica
tion written in Roman scrip with an
Indelible pencil, many of the words
being heavily underscored. The com
munication was signed "the determine!
exiles from militaristic government,
Italy. Germany. United States. Italy,
Russia, Russia." In several InManciM
the writer repeated himself.
Threatens "Ulrect Action."
The communication read :
"Kpitor: Our protests have been
In vain In regards to this prepared
ness propaganda, so we are going to
use a little direct action on the 22d.
which will echo nrotmil the earth and
show thut Krleco really shows how
and that militarism cannot be forced
on us and our children without a vio
lent protest.
"Thlnas are going to happen to
show that we will go to any extreme,
the same as the controlling class, to
preserve what little democracy we still
have. Don't take this as a Joke, or
you will be rudely awakened. Awaken
(sic) we hsve sworn to do our duty to
the masses nnd only send warnings to
thoc who are wise but who are foroeJd
to march to hold their Jjus. us we
want to give nnlv the hypocritical
(sic) patriots who shout for war, but
never go. a real taste of war.
"Kindly ask the Chamber of Com
merce to march In n solid body If
they want to prove they nre no row
ards. A copy has been sent to all the
papers, our duty has been done so
far."
Lead Pipe HIiittu Tvrn RlorUs,
Kvery possible precaution, police of
ficials said to-night, had been tnken, but
the Innocent looking suitcase, standing
where a country visitor of whom there
were thousands might havo set It
down, attracted nn attention.
Through this violence the parade con
tinued without a break. The veterans
of the Grand Army of the Republic,
waiting in Steuart street to fall Into
line, escaped death by a hnlr and pro
ceeded with the march. An ambulance,
summoned to rare for a fainting spec
tator, stood across Steuart street when
the explosion occurred, The patient had
his log fractured nnd a man aiding he
attendants full with a fractured skull,
but the ambulance steward was unin
jured. He packed both men and some
other victims Into the ambulance und
rushed them tn a hospital.
The official count of the parade Indi
cated that .'.1,319 persons were In line,
MRS. GREEN LEFT 100 MILLIONS
Tentative Administration Fee of
210,000 Agreed t'pon.
Uki.i.ows Fam.h. Vt July 22. It waa
estimated In legal circles here to-night
that Mrs. Hetty Green left nn estate of
approximately 1100,000,000, Charles W,
Klerson of New York, representing Mm.
Green's son, Col. lCMward II. It. Green,
agreed to-night upon a tentntlve ad
ministration fee of 120,000 to be paid
to the State
Col, Green Is now sole executor of the
estute, since It was announced to-day
that his sister, Mr. Matthew Astor
Wllks, had declined formally to act na
executrix with him, aa directed by the
will. The Probate Court to-day admitted
the will to probate without opposition.
Practically the entire estate Is left to
Col. Green and Mrs. Wllks.
Mast Brand "Storae" Rgga.
Ai.bant, July 12. Commissioner John
J. Dillon of the State Department of
Foods and Markets, has sent out In
structions and rules to dealers holding
that after September I all eggs that
oome from cold storage must be so
marked on their shell.
GALLS BLACKLIST
FULLY JUSTIFIED
Evans, Chief of Trade Depart
ment of Foreign Office,
Defends It.
j
PUBLICITY 18 NECESSARY
Unfairness of Sub Rosa List
Pointed Out No Harm
to Allies.
London. July 22. In reply to criti
cisms which the publication of a list of
eighty-seven American Individuals and
firms with which Kngllsh firms are for
bidden to do business under the trading
with the enemy act has met with In
America and here, Laming Worthing
Evans, chief of the Department of For
eign Trade of the Foreign Office, made
the following statement to-day:
"The statutory list has been compiled
from one point of view only, namely, to
prohibit British citizens from support
ing firms which are strengthening our
enemies. The test applied before putting
a firm domiciled In America on the
statutory list Is this: 'Is that firm by
Ita business operations strengthening our
enemlesr If so, then British firms may
not support It.
"It Is one of the principal lcuns of
the world wnr that the strength of a
belligerent does not consist only In the
resources and supplies available In Its
own territories, but ulso on those upon
which he can draw from neutral coun
tries. As a result of the seml-mllltary
organization which the German Govern
ment has Imposed on Its commerce every
German firm throughout the world Is an
outpost, seeking to do Its utmost to as
sist Germany In her effort to dominate
Kurope, and the fact that they aru es
tablished In heutral countries In many
cases makes them more formidable nnd
their activities less easy to combat than
would otherwise be the case.
Duty ta Fraatratr Them.
"Can It then be said fairly that when
the British Government lo fully aware
of these activities it should do nothing
to frustrate them? Can It be claimed
fulrly that Instead of endeavoring to
frustrate them they should lie actually
usslstvd by British firms. British cables.
British bank and British shipping
lines?
"It is true that the trade done by
British firms with German firms in neu
tral countries has attained veiy consid
erable proportions, and to cut off this
trade by means of the statutory black
list meant a certain amount of Inevita
ble loss. But the Government consid
ered that the loss to British trade would
be much less than the loss caused to the
enemy, and besides that the sacrifice In
volved la necessary In the Interests of
The. Atlles.
"From strictly legal points of view
the blacklist system Is n piece of purely
domestic legislation which simply pro
hibits British subjects from dciimg with
certain persons. The right of miy Gov
ernment to Impo-e such prohibition on
Its own nationals Is Imnllv opn to dis
pute. "objection lias been taken to the un
pleasant publicity given the list, but
without such publicity fur mote damage
would be likely to result to trade. He
fore the adoption of the st.itutotv black
list there was an unofficial blacklist in
existence. Kxperlence has shown that
uncertainty oh the part of both Hrltlsli
und neutral traders n to uho Is and
who Is not n the blacklist would bo far
more Injurious to commerce than the
publication of the blacklist, which en
ables every one to know exactlv where
he Is. It is for this reason that stepx
ure being taken to slve the list lis much
publicity as possible.
glib Rosa I.I.I I'nrnlr. '
"Complaint Is made tlut the Mattitorv
llst Is unnecessary. ;i the same result's
might have been obtained mib rosa. But
If so done it would have affected not
merely the Aims In the I'nlted ftutcs
which now figure In the Mn tutor v Hat.
but nleo others probably all those of
German names, whether they deserved
It or not because British tr.iders, to
whom alone our prohibition Is uddressod,
would not have known the names of the
piohlbltcd firms and milglit out of cau
tion have ceased dealing with a much
larger number In trade matters nothing
Interferes with business so much as un
certainty, and It was to avoid this
general Interference that the policy of
prohibition with tho firms listed was
adopted.
"It has been said that It was a blun
der to publish the list when a French
loan wua under way. Clearly it would
have been blunder to Include the
friends of our French allies. But Is It
suggested that this blunder has been
committed? Look at the list. Who am
Included? Is there one among them
who has not shown In unmistakable
measure that his sympathies, and. more
still, his active help, are given, not to
our French allies and ourselves, but to
our enemies?
No Prejudice to Allies.
"It Is, indeed, only those who have
.shown unmistakably that they are ene
mies, or acting for enemies, who are
Included. So we need not fear that the
support of our French allies will be
prejudiced In those quarters.
"It Is suggested that publicity in the
London Onteftr was Insufficient. Tho
press of the United States has given
nil the publicity needed in the United
States and In every other country. We
find, In fact, that the local press always
reproduces lists. So there need be no
fear of hardship arising from want of
knowledge of the names Included In ths
list.
"I see it Is said in the city that opinion
Is not unanimous. That may well be so,
for the city la put to Inconvenience In
having to chance the course of Its busi
ness, nnd naturally, unless the city
knows the facts upon which the decision,
including any particular firms In the
statutory list, Is based, It may sometimes
see merely the Inconvenience nnd not tho
Justice or the necessity,
"All the factH were carefully weighed
before the decision was arrived nt, anil I
havo no doubt that there Is not a name
on the list which is not there on evidence
which fully Justified ita Inclusion."
Mr. Kvans denied that a sub rosa
blacklist now exists. The only bonis for
such a charge, ho said, beliiK tho fact
that -certain firms are under suspicion,
and British traders, therefore, have been
warned to be careful In dealing with
them,
Mr. Kvans also pnlntnl out that there
are hardly more than thirty entities In
the American 1IM, one-tenth of tho list
being occupied by the Knauth, Nachod
k Kulino Company, as, Including the
Continued on Second Page.
TEUTON ARMIES
SMASHED, FLEE
FROM RDSS1ANS
Sakharoff Firmly Estab
lished on South Bank of
the Lipa.
26,000 PRISONERS
TAKEN SINCE JULY 16
Von Hindenburg's Lines
Southeast of Riga
, Penel rated.
ALLIES HAVE WHIP
HANI), .I0FFRE SAYS
Haig Declares Decision of
War Will Come on West
ern Front.
London, July 22. The allied iilTen
Hive, which MWlngfl bet wren the west
Tn nnrl eastern fronts with almost
clocklike, regularity nnd In n m.inncr
to prevent nlnmst completely tli Cen
tral Powers from making nny rruisld
erable transfer of troops from front to
front, Is now centred on the Itucshn
front.
The force- under fien. Snkhnrnff
have taken the ofTeiiNivc encrKeticully
and their victory In tho hallent formed
by the Junction of tho Llpu nnd tho
Styr. southwest of Lutsk, iiipeiir.s to
day to be much more Important than
either the 0ttlfi.1l report from I'etro
Kfml or the Ai:.Mro-Orm:iti ddmisiions
of yesterday Indicated
Hussions Over the I.Ibu.
Gen. Saklinroff has the Teutons re
treating In disordeily Hlcbt before lilt
forces. lluvlngi forced the iciyHnsci of
the Styr and the Llpa. the Itui-Un
troops ulreudy are beyond Beiestrchk,
having In two days fighting tuken prls
oners 300 olllcem anil 12.UU0 men. In
addition the .Humana luic captured
much booty. The number of Autimni
and Geimaii- cnptuird in the. opinufotii
on the eastern front since July 1U tutal.1
2tJ,U"u.
By his success In driving the Austro-Geiiniin-
from the Styr-Llpu salient Gen.
fl.tkhaioff bus stuhllsheU his forces
firmly on tho rlclit bunk of the LlpA,
which he has crossed, up to ubuut twenty
kilometies (about thirteen miles) above
Its confilifiue with the Styr.
Accoiding to mllllaiy critics In Potro
grad, a buttle is In preparation In the
neighborhood of Knvel, the objective of
the Hussluii drive across the Stokhod,
which will prove one of the moat Im
portant conflicts of the whole wnr.
Illmleiiburu'a l.inr reiietrnted.
The Russians under Gen. Kurnpntklii
during the lint twenty-four hours havo
peneteiuted the tlr,t line works of Field
MniHli.il von HUidcnburg'H lines an tho
Dwln.i front to the cast if Itlgu, tlie
l'etrogr.'id W.ir Otllce unnounced to
night. The statement indicates th it thu
Huaslan offensive on this northernmost
end of the fur flung battle llrm in tie
east, long heralded by reports of In
f.intiy movements und aitlllery bom
bardments, has actually begun. The
Itussl.ui night ofllcl.il statement sajs
there h.'vye been "sev.ral fierce engage
ments" In the Itlg.i region, and that the
artillery of both sides "Is engaged heav
ily." IVtrograil despatches Indicate that
great linpoitiiuce Is attached In Uio Kus
nUii capital to the extendi m (f the llus
slan offensive to the extreme north.
Military critics belluvo the Hussion at
tacks there ure aimed not only nt fore
stalling n possible offensive by Field
Marshal on lllndeuburg's iinnv to re
lieve the hard preseed German and Aus-tro-llungarlnii
forces In the south, but
also at removing definitely the mnace
to Iltga and Uwltwk. nt the gatos of
which two cities tho Germans hav houn
strongly entrenched ever klwo hist nu
tumn. Despatches from Hlga say that tho
ronr of the Russian artillery Is plainly
audible In the big Baltic penport and
that the German lines already hvo been
dented at various points.
Itnsslnns Advance 1:1 Miles,
III the Caucasus the Russian havo nil
vanced thirteen mlloa during tho last
forty-eight hours from Oumuhkhaneh,
whose capturo -was announced yesteidiy.
l'etrograd otllclally reports tu-nlKht thu
taking of Ardasa, twenty verts tthlrleeu
miles) to the northwest of tlumusk
haneh. Sixteen Turkish ulllces.i nnd m
men were captured. Aiming tho prluon
ers Is the commander of the Twent
ninth Regiment,
No striking news was received from
the western front to-day, except tepoits
of heavy artillery actions by both
sides.
Tho British press gives great promi
nence to statements published in the
French press and credited to Oen. Joffrc.
nnd Sir Douglas Haig, thu British com
niander. The former Is reported as "Hay
ing that th" Allies now have the whip
hand over the Central Powers, while
Oen. Halg says tho supreme decision of
the war must be made on the western
front.
sazonoVf 'resigns.
Ilnaslan Mlulster of I'orelicii Af
faire Gives I'D Ills Position.
I'UTiiooitAii. via London, July ::i
(Sunday), Serglus S.ir.onoff, Minister
of Foreign Affairs, has resigned, Ho in
succeeded by Horl? Vl.idlmlrovitch Stur
dier, the Premier, who has tnken over
tho ofllce.
A l'etrograd despatch on July 19 said
that M. Sazonoff had gone to Finland
for 11 fortnight to recuperate. Ills last
olllclal utterance published In this coun
try was concerning the new Russo-Jap-imeso
treaty, Sazonoft declaring on July
14 tast that the convention whrah tie,
sinned on behalf of Russia. dld-zjoV-lui
'Ci
