f
1
Aft 4 f . -frtt
4
WEATHER
ARIZONA Sunday
and Monday generally
fair.
.MARKETS
-9-9
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
July 19, 22.875.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
vNOziav "xiNaoHd
PRICE FIVE CENTS
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JULY 23, 1916.
VOL. 19, NO. 49.
MB KILLS 6 HI
E5
E AT SAN F
SCO
k
PREPARDHESS
PH "In .
)
VILLA ON RUN i
FLEEING TO
All Day Engagement South I
of Farral Turns Into Big
Victory for Government
Forces
200 BANDITS SLAIN;
VILLA NEAR CAPTURE
Villa Power in Mexico Broken
at Last, Declare Carranzis
tas. But he Escapes His
Pursuers
(By Review Leased Wire.) (
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex., July 22.
Details of an all-day running en
gagement near Hacienda, El Florida,
almost directly south of Parral on the
Chihuahua Durango border, between
the command personally directed by
Villa and government .ti'jops, were re
ceived here today. General Jacinto
Trevino, commanding the army of the
northeast, announced that the dis
patches showed that the Villista pow
er in Mexico had been effectually
biMken and that it 5s only a matter
of a few days until Villa, himself is
captured or killed. The reports said
that only the better mounts of the
Villistas' allowed their leader to
escape.
The dispatches, which were s.nt
from Rosario by General Tsmael Lara
fjr General Matias Ramos, command
ing the government forces In that
section and relaved here fi'jm Jimenez
by General Domingo Arrieta. said that
in the engagement which took place
last Saturday, approximately two hun
dred Villistas were killed.
Chased 50 Mile.
The Carrancista losses were not
given definitely. The statement con
tinued that Villa was driven first Vi
seek refuge on the San Ysidro ranch
and being dislodged there was pursued
more than fifty miles Into the state
of Durango. It was pointed out thpt
a result of the engaeement was tt
prevent the bandits reaching their ob
iective In the Sierras and in keeping
them In the comparatively open couii
trv of the lower Nazas River.
The battle was begun early In the
morning, the attack being made in
four !uTT"is. directed bv General
Parrx-. on the center and left, b" Gen
cul Vrnesto Grcis on the right and
General Lara on the south, to the
bandits' rear.
Slav 200 Villistas.
In rmrt. the message received by
General Tmvino. as translated sld:
"I beg advise that after I left
1 with General Ernesto Garcia.
I came nn with the rear guard of
Villa's band at Hacienda Concepcion.
'iere I made three prisoners, who.
jiffor a sestrrhttie invetieat'on -ir
vrmiitwt On the morninc of the lfith
I pit inforrnpHnn that Villa was at
JTnoienda "1 Florida with his main
band on thot Villa whs personally in
n,nmon,i I iitiwiI with General
r.nvijj to "Mark tni lolntlv. mvself
on the w,or ""d V and Garcia
. on ! r'eht with the brigade .Tnarez.
n-Mle doners! T.ara attacked the
enemy's rear
Q.inninn Finht oO Mi'leS.
We attacked in the morning and
after fighting heavily all day we aiwe
first to Hacienda San Is-
idro. Dislodging hi mfrom Ciere and
pursuing him a distance of over fifty
miles well into the state of DuranjA).
we killed a large number of the
bandits In the running fight.
Dead Lay on Field.
"These were left on the field. The
outlaws srattered. flying in all direc
tions, we recovered seven wati'jns
loaded with wheat and provisions,
many arms and horses and also cap
tured the b'j-called General Pablo
Salinas, who died later of his wounds.
Only 200 With Villa.
"On the 16th I arrived at San Fer
min. cutting off the retreat or a small
band from Cerro Gordo on the 17th.
I got rerf.wts that Villa was In Esram
ada with the remains of his army
now amounting to about two hundred
men, and went there Immediately, but
only captured three of his men who
were shot later. These, ne or whom
bore dispatches proving that Villa
was enroute to Nazas. to join Calixto
Contreras.
"Our Mrses were not in good
enough condition to keep up with
(Continued on page three)
MS
LOWER CALIFORNIA
SOUGHT BY CALLES
DOUGLAS. July 22. General
P. Elir.s Calles. military gover
nor of Sonora. declined to com
ment today on the newspaper
report3 that he was to send an
army of four thousand soldiers
from Guaymas to La Paz in
Lower California, to. subdue
Governor Cantu.
Men known to be in his con
fidence said today they had
been unable to learn anything
about the movement, but that
between eight and ten thou
sand soldiers have been moved
from northern Sonora to the
Guaymas district.
General Calles denied that
he had been summoned to
Mexico City and said that he
had no intention of going there.
Teutonic Forces Reported in
Disorderly Flight, 12,0001
Falling Prisoners to Czar s
Men
WAR'S GREATEST
BATTLE LOOMING
Russian's Great Drive Across
Stokhod River Towards
Kovel May be Turning
Point of War
(By Review Leased Wire.)
I)XDOX. Julv 22. The entente al
lied offensive which swings between
the western and eastern fronts with
almost clock-like regularity, and in
a manner aln.'jst completely to pre
vent the rentral nowers from making
any considerable transfers of troops
front to front, now is centered on uie
Russian fi'jnt. The forces under Gen
eral Sakharoff have taken the offen
sive energetically and their victory In
the salient formed by the junction of
the Lipa and Styr rivers, southwest
of Lutsk today appears to be much
more important than either tne oin
cial claims of Petrograd or the Aus-tro-German
admissions" of yesterday
indicated.
Teutons in Flight
P.eneral Sakharofr has the enemy
retreating in disorderly flight berore
his forces. Having rorced the passages
nt tho stvr nad T.ina. the Russian
troops already are beyond Beresteehk,
having in two days' fighting taken
prisoner from the Austro-Germans .urn
nffiKom ami 1 9 000 men. In addition
the Russians have captured a quan
tity of war t'ooty.
26.000 Prisoners
Tli number of Austro-Germans cap
tured In the operations on the eastern
front since July 16 now totals Jb.uwi.
Bv his success in driving the Austro-Germans
frVrni the Styr-Lipa sali
ent. General Sakharoff has established
his forces firmly "on the rieht bank
of the Liba up to about 20 kilometers
(about 13 miles) above its confluence
with the Styr.
Greatest Battle Near
-Meanwhile General Kui'.matkin is
still presiwr forward against the
forces of Field Marshall von Hinden
berg on the Dvina front, south of Hien
and north or Morean. According to
military critics In Petrograd. a battle
Is in preparation in the neighborhood
or Kovel, the objective 'or the Russian
drive across th Stokhod. which will
nrove one or the most important tvn
nicts of the whole war.
The British newspnper f ive reat
nrominence to statements pnhlished
In the French press and credited to
General .loffre and Sir T-'mRlas Haig.
the British commander. The former
is reported as saying that the entente
allies now have the whin hand over
the central powers while General Haic
savs the supreme decision of the war
must be made on the western front.
LARGE BANDIT FORCE
IS HEADED FOR TEXAS
rrtv Review I.eised Wire.)
rUSIDIO. Tex.. Jn'v ?? VIpcIHo
Vllln"ev. t" outlaw -ho raided
ppvornl AmeHmn roaches few
months seo. is renorted here n Iipvp
reached Crro Blanco about 7(1 miles
iiith or Olinea. with lrge rorce
The renort sv that he is headed
nilo south or Tulvo. Texas.
Vtllnnuevs's httnd Is 8td to hav
participated In th Glnn Snrinps raid
nd the rn'd on the Pool ranch, near
Shflfter. where some horses were
stolen.
AUS I HUMANS
ON RUN BEFORE
RUSSIAN
HORDES
James Whitcomb Riley
Dies in Indianapolis
(By Review Leased Wire.)
INDIANAPOLIS, July 22.
James Whitcomb Riley, the In
diana pcet, died this evening.
INDIANAPOLIS, July 22.
James Whitcomb Riley died to
night at 10:50 o'clock while only
Mr. Riley's nurse. Miss Clementia
Proughwas awake in the poet's
house. He had asked for a drink
of water and reclined on his bed
again. Miss Clementia resumed
her vigil and, noticing that the
poet seemed not to be resting
easily, approached his bed. Mr.
Riley died before she reached
his side.
Mr. Riley's death was due to paraly
sis. He suffered a violent stroke about
7:30 o'clock this morning and the
members of his household were great
ly alarmed, but under Dr. Carleton B.
McCulloch's ministration, the poet
seemed to be improved and early this
evening was regarded as much better.
Information was given to the pub
lic that Mr. Riley was in no danger,
but within a few hours he was dead.
Members of Mr. Riley's family were
summoned immediately. They are his
brother-in-law. Henry Eitel; his
nenhew. Edmund H. Kitel and his
neice. Miss Elizabeth Eitel.
PROPOSED
FOR fOIERS IS
POPULAR
.1 . c'Polk and Arredondo yet Un
William Adamson, Mayor of,1 p
Douplas. Writes of Merit
D ,
Contained in Measure to
Reform Legislature j
There has never been a more pop-
ular initiative measure suggested to
the voters of the state than the one
which proposes an amendment to the
state constitution for tne rearrange
ment or our legislative representation,
says the Douglas International. As,
for Instance, the seven members or
the legislature rrom Cochise county
would be chosen rrom seven districts,
so laid out as to contain not less
than 1500 voters. By this method the
principle or home rule would be ap- . ranza. j
plied in the formation of our future '. intimated today that cont.n-1
p I ued delav in arriving at an agreement i
legislature. In the selection two years as lQ form and g,.opt, of the ne.
ago there were two senators and sev- 1 gotialjons has 8erved to render some
en members of the house of represen- j orriclai8 .sg sure Df the ultimate re-,
tatives chosen in Cochise county. 8Uts of tl(f nPgtiations between Mr.
Douglas, the largest voting district in I f0lk and Mr. Arredondo. It is now I
the county., only secured one renre- i practically certain that no agreement;
sentative while the Warren district, J is to be e"xpp,.twi berore the middle of i
with only a few more votes, recured i next W,,,.'K. it was stated semi-official i
one senator and four members of the y today that the operations of bandits j
legislature. Such unequal representa- , j ,le Vair.il region, said to be head
tion could not occur again anywhere e(j nv yjiia himself, in no way alTect
in the state with the adoption or the j e(j t,e diplomatic discussions with the
amendment proposed by the non-par- . defacto government. ,
tisan legislative leigue. with neaa- j
quarters in tins city, i ne pruuuus
for this Initiative measure have been
sent forward to the secretary or state
and the amendment will appear on
the ballot in November. With these
petitions which were circulated all
over the state went the following ar
gument In favor or the amendment,
suoniltien oy .mayor . "'.
... . . ,i- kA
or this city:
election of members of our stat- leg- I
islature by legislative districts Is not
an Innovation: it is in effect in many
of our states. It is based on the same
principle and follows the same rule
that has been in efrect since the for
mation of our governmetn in the elec
tion o senators and representatives
to our national congress. Senators
are elected from the states at larce.
representatives from concessional
diricts
In this proposed amendment the
apportionment is so made, and it is
definitely stated, that no county shall
have less representation in the state
legislature than it has at present, but
n nmviilcH for an increase in
the
: i,o nnnnlntion
or the count v tnstifies it. The const!- Chihuahua City, copies of which
tutional provision now in effect does j reached hero today. The story saul
not make anv allowance for tncrr-nse that the action was t;ike upon or
in representation with the growth of ders of General Baker." American
population n that stole. Ti e i.ropos.'d , secretary of wnr. and added that he
amendment gives each county cquit- j had announced that the guardsmen
able representation, and provides a , sent to the border will now he sent
svsteni of home nil eby which every to their respective states. It also
section of the state can have Its re- asserts that General Pershing himself
rep-ntation In the legislature, so H at j requested that "the Yankee fore.
each particular locality of l".n'i voters he withdrawn " Withdrawal of the
shall have a representative to look troops was ordered, it was stated, "be
arter its Interests. ' cnus- the causes which brought on
When von consider the diversified the Mexican crisis no longer exist"
(Continued on Page Four.) i The same paper contains a detailed
Pnunht Aoainst Afflirtinn
Mr. Riley suffered his first violent
attack or paralysis July 10, 1910.' ;
He see:neci to be in good spirits.
He was strick'.'U a second time. Tuis ;
' stroke caused a complete paralysis .
of h!s r'ght side. He suffered severe- ,
ly as the stroke wore away son e-wlit-t.
Mr. Riley's detent. ination to
battle the iKuess was shown at that
limp wii n he set about laboriously
to learn to write ith ms left hand.
In Excellent Spirits
For several years Mr. Riley has
spent his winters in Florida, where
he went accompanied ty members
of his household. He returned only
I last May and "never feit better" as
j he expressed it. on his arrival. Since
I that time he lies teen in excellent
'spirits ar.d seemed unusually stronis.
i Tr. McCullorh said Mr. Riley hud
I been able to go to his publishers
' frequently and was out in his auto
1 every day even as late as Fiid-iy.
The combination of his spirits and
, bodily strength seemed convincing
that he was far from being on the
verge of a fatal illness.
Mourned by Millions
Available records indicate he was
born In 1853 but lie was reticent as
to his exact ag.e One of the most
(Continued on Page Three.)
able to Agree; Fessimism
Grows in Washington Ov-j
er Conference j
(By Review Leased Wire. I :
WASHINGTON, July 22. Acting;
Secretary Polk held his fifth confer- j
f nee today with Eliseo Arredondo. in
an effort to arrive at an amicable a- j
greement of the questions between j
the United States and Mexico. ,
The fact that no announcement Tol
j ioweu today's meeting was construed
t to mean that a satisfactory reply had
j not been received rrom Mexico City
, ernmpnl has proposed to fie con.mis-j
sifm piall proposed by General Car-;
THREE KILLED BY Tkain
(Ily Review Leased Wire.) I
FAIRMONT. Minn., July 22. Mar
tin Smith, a Tanner near here, and ;
two harvest hands whom he had em-
nloved late today, were instantly
killed tonight when a Milwaukee pas- '
. Ulllt-U IU;
,,, alrP ,h farmer's ail
tomobile at a grade crossing a few
(Ily Review Leased Wire.)
Kl. PASO. July A two column
story, purporting to he a dispatch
from Kl Paso, announcing the with
drawn! from Mexican soil of the
American expeditionary forces, was
I printed Julv 1!) in Kl Oemoerata of
BILL GEADLOGKLOOMS
1 MEXICAN :
PftBl.EY
nunmm nnrnn ruun
'MtAlbAN rntM OHIO
I ii p HiiTiinnmimi nil
10 PI
WINDSTORM WRECKS
DOUGLAS CAMP
DOIGLAS. Ji.:y 22. The
New Jersey brigade camp is a
mass of wreckage, the result
of a wind storm which tore
tiireusli t!ie company streets
tonight, rippins tents from
their moorings, lifting frame
hospital and company build
ings bodily and throwing them
across the state highway into
the big ditches between the
camp and the railroad tracks.
Tons cf (juartermasters sup
plies were uncowred and soak
ed in the rain that accompan
ied the storm and t':e light
ning, telephone and telegraph
lines w"fire burned out by an
electric?! disturbance which
followed in its wake.
Killed By Wires
The body of a foreman at the
Warren Rock Crusher plant
was found in a mass of tan
gled power wires near Sixth
Street and the power had to
be shut off, leaving the town
in darkness until it was taken
out.
4
STAND PAT
Ambassador Rice Visits Polk!
in Effort to Justify Discrim-'
inating Against United j
States Firms
UllLo t-lVlL AR t
precedents;
All Commercial Intercourse!
Intended for Confederates!
Prohibited by Lincoln, is j
Claim !
'(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. July 22. Antici
pating pi"jtests to the state derart-j
ment from the firms and corporations ;
BRITISH PLAN 10
ON BLACK
LISTING
named in the British blacklist. Sir Ce-j fornia !nfantrv of the Spanish American War, became a shambles. The blare
rJL?Jt?3tZ ' ? th r uf drun,s drowned ,,u" ,r,es of ,1,e mur
Polk, in which the subject was in- j "Two women standing beside me were blown to biu." said one women.
'"As'" thrca'se'of the allied block-' Mrs. Klngsley Van lo of Oakland, who. with her two children, was injured,
ade. precedents established by the , Tlle poii,.e sajd it is possible that some bodies were blown out of existence.
Cnited States during the Civil war; -tudcatc
are laming up again to be used for PRESS GETS THREATS
justification. The allies have found j At ,ie newspaper offices in San Francisco yesterday received a commu
181. suI.denarodamation declaring nlcat ion In Roman script with an indelible pencil, many of the words bing
that "all commercial intercourse be- j hPavily underscored. The communication was signed "The Determined
(Continued on 1'aee tnree.j
account of a recent attack upon a
U. 0. WlinUnHVVHL Uli
i
Carranza supply train between Palo- j ..TlllnK, ar,, KK l0 happen to show that we will go to any extreme, the
mas and Santa Ysabd. west of t hi-; " .... ,
huahna. It announced that five Car- j same as the controlling classes, to preserve what little democracy we sttll
ratuistas were killed and five wound- , haye ,)on.t ,Hk() aR a jok,, or you win 1(, ru,iely awakened. Awakened.
ed. A passenger was killed and a II- I . 01.0 .Vt
lista prisoner and a woman wounded. ! Awakened. WK HAVE SWORN TO OO OCR PI T TO THh MASShS ANO
while the Villistas lost eight killed j .j y SKNn WRNINC.S TO THOSE WHO ARK WISH Bl'T WHO ARE
'lTMrrtlTZt.Jrora"TO MARCH TO HOLD THEIR JOBS, AS WE WANT TO GIVE
border Is again becoming normal. A q-y THE HYPOCRITICAL patriots who shout for war but never go. a real
train which leTt Torreon Wednesday I
arrived at Jiuirei early today. ! taste of war.
The passengers asserted that con- ! "Kindly ask the chamber of commerce to march in a solid body IF THEY
TZl: TZvZrl WANT TO PROVE THEY ARE NO COWARDS. A copy has been sent to .11
added that the green coin crop had ti,p pa(,ers. Our duty has been done so far."
.hrre'wassVmau'rofd'r' but'1 Ever caution was taken but the j Handfulls of empty pistol and crt
new corn PrU.' i.e. I a.wl fa, - ! InrnM-ent looking suitcase standing cridges. hmwn through the crowd by
which was hrl In e -Iwhere a visitor mith whom there were the explosion were picked up In the
ne wh.h ln , ! thousands, attracted no attention. The , gutters b souvenirs hunters A piece
, V. t. ,r:.n
CHILDREN
EGES UK. TIMED
D
' Several Believed Blown Clear
LO
Off; Many Women Paraders and Several Babies Killed
by Fiendish Instrument as Protest Against Military Pre
paredness; But Parade Goes on
n;nviMr irnTD crurr
, I.V u n nil ii -t - I .rv .11.1
BOASTS OF DEED LATER CARRIED OUT
!
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges From Infernal Machine Blown
Through Crowd for Block Around Near Ferry Building
on xMarket Street. Strange Man Crying "I Didn't Do It
Arrested Acting Queerly
!
!
SAN FRANCISCO, July 22. U p to a late hour tonight no trace had
been found of. the culprit whose b omb, aimed today at San Francis
co's preparedness parade, snuffed o ut the lives of six spectators and
injured more than two score more. The police were working with the
utmost energy to apprehend th e fanatic who placed the death
dealing explosive on the parade's I ine of march but at midnight no
definite clue had been discovered. One suspect taken into custody short
ly after the bomb exploded strenuously asserted he was innocent, and
the police were inclined to believe him.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN FRANCISCO, July 22. At least four persons wers killed and
forty four or more were injured by an explosion here today of a
timed bomb in the midst of a throng viewing a preparedness parade.
The police arrested Frank Josephson, a lodger in a sailor's boarding
house who cried "I didn't do it, I didn't do it," and trembled violently
when he was being searched at the station house. The police said
he had not been accused of anything. Chas. M. Pickery district at
torney, issued a statement attributing the deed to a mind unbalanced
by arguments for and against preparedness which have occupied at
tention here. The parade was not interrupted.
The list of dead and seriously injured as compiled by tne police fol
lows: THE DEAD
Mrs. H. E. Knapp, Alameda, Cal.: Dr. George Painter. Berkeley. Cal.
O. H. Lambert, printer, Alameda: George Lawleir, Mill Valley. Cal.
SERIOUSLY INJURED
Arthur Nelson, 19, Larkspur, Cal., lacerations both legs and bdy.
Howard E. Knapp. lacerations both legs and body.
Mrs. Klngsley Van Loo, Oakland, laceration both legs, internal in
juries. Harry Turnbull, retired manager The Family Club, fractured skull.
Miss Pearl Seeman. 19. Oakland, leg blown off.
Mrs. L. Wymer, Oakland, leg blown off.
Henry J. Claussen, Alameda, right leg fractured, body lacerated and
bruised.
The explosion occurred at Steuart and Market streets, two blocks
from the ferry building on San Francisco's main thoroughfare.
BLOWN TO PIECES
The bomb wm concealed in a suitcase packed with cartridges, gaspip
and glass, blew up in the crowd, blasting men. women, children and babies.
1
1
The holiday t.hrong. cheering a
1 ,. , n.,.r.,n,,,t
' exl
lies inmi .uimiifii v.... ...... ....
j In
i read:
several instances the writer
"Kditors: Our protests have been
i ness propaganda, so we are going to
which will echo around the earth and
that militarism cannot he forced on
protest.
' REAL TA5TE Of wak
force of the I... was astonishing.,
DEVICE
Sllll
Out of Existence; Legs Blown
Tn vcucpappdc
m m 1 ww ni uw
contingent of veterans of the First Cali-
ilv r.ermnnv. l S.. Russia."
..
repeated himself.
The communication
in vain in regards to this prepared-
use a little direct action on the Cnd
show that Frisco really knows now ana
us and our children without a violent
(Continued on page )
