8flte Jtortlt
THIRTIETH YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., JANUARY 7, 1916.
No. 102
mums ix J it i.i excised
DEATHS I1V SIXTV-TWO.
Births ill North Platto during 1915
exceeded deaths by sixty-two, accord
ing to the report mndo by C. P. Temple,
reRlstrnr of vltnl statistics for this city.
The number of births during the year
vvero, 162, and the number of deaths an
even hundred. All these deceased, how
ever, wore not residents of the city.
By inionths the births and deaths
were us follows:
Births Deaths
Janunry 12 10
February 22 9
, March 16 S
April 10 15
May t ......... 9 4
June '.. 11 G
July 13 7
August 11
September 8 C
October 24 8
Novombcr 4 12
December 12 9
Total 162 100
MiinIcuI AhxocIiiIIoii Kleetn OIHccrM
Wednesday evening the members of
the- North 1'latto Musical Association,
Local 609, A. F. M., together with tholr
families and friends, were entertained
iiv the homo of Ilorshoy S. Welch. Each
person on arriving waH conducted to
the third iloor, where, they woro mado
to demonstrate their artistic ability, by
posing for the amusement of those al
ready present. Following tills, other
amusing stunts wero indulged In, after
which a musical program consisting of
u trombone solo by Arthur Tramp, vo
cal solo by Everett Kendall, cornet solo
Earl Stamp, trio for clarinet, cornet and
piano, AV. E. Starr, Prof. Tout and Mrs.
Tout; piano solo, Thelma Starr, and
ocarina solo by Richmond Blrge, all
of which wero heartily encored.
The oHlcers for the year woro then
installed. Wilson Tout acting as in
stalling olilcor inducted the following
membors into olllco: Earl Stamp, pres
ident: Jos. F. Filllon, vico president;
Ed Weeks, secretary-treasurer; P. G.
Buchanan, Sergt. at arms; It. D. Birgo
and W. E. Starr, members of exocutlvo
committee.
Following Installation, refreshments
were served. This affair was ono of
the annual get-together meetings of
hte Musicians' Association, and was de
, clared by all present to have been one
of tho most enjoyable social affairs ever
held by that organization.
Little Child 1'nHNCM Awny
Wilnmet, tho threo year old daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Boyle, of east
Klxth street, died at 3 o'clock yester
day morning after an illness of several
-weeks. She was taken ill with pneu
monia early in December and gradu
ally grew weaker. Two weeks ago
symptoms of other diseases appeared,
among them congestion of tho brain,
and she never regained consciousness.
The services of professional nurses and
consultation of several physicians
could not stay the course of the disease
and tho patient passed away peacefully.
To the bereaved parents the sympathy
of the community Is extended. The
funeral will bo held tomorrow morn
ing. Bible Study Class in District No. 1
will meet with Mrs. I. L. Bailor Tues
day afternoon at 3 o'clock.
LOCAL AND PERSONAL.
For Itcnt 5 room house, 410 west
Eleventh street, J. D. Cox. 101-2
Attorney It. P. Hnlligan has returned
from a business visit In Omaha.
A. A. Scltatz left last evening for
Omaha to spend several days on busl
noHs. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Dixon, who had
been visiting In Omaha, returned homo
yesterday morning.
Wm. Carroll, of Chicago, is expected
hero today to nttend tho funeral of his
sister, Wllamot Boyle.
A. Kunklo of Kent precinct, wns In
town yesterday While onrouto to Cali
fornia to Bpend tho winter.
Deputy State Flro Commissioner II.
F. He.qunrtettc, of Lincoln, Is spending
a few days hero on business.
Mr. and Mrs. Stovo Baldwin woro
called to Council Bluffs yesterday by
the serious Illness of a relative.
The Sarah Robokah lodgo will meet
this ovcnlng for tho purposo of in
stalling the newly elected odlcors
Mrs. Ooorgo Shostrom and baby, of
Gothenburg, left yesterday afternoon
after visiting local frk.nds for several
days.
Mrs. C. P. Carson, of Gothenburg,
who visited her son Perry Carson and
wife for some time, went homo yester
day. Frank Baldwin, who had boon visit
ing his parents for two weeks, left yes
terday for Kansas City to resume Ills
studios.
ti. C. Carroll, of tho Electric Roller
Mills, of Gothenburg, loft yesterday af
ternoon after spending sovoral days
here on business.
Roy Mocomber Is spending a few
days hore with his parents and will
leave shortly for Gerlng to open a
billiard room and pool hall.
Govornmcnt Inspector Gardner, of
Boulder and U. P. Inspector Fenlson,
of Omaha, have been hero for a couple
of days looking over freight cars.
Mrs. Charles McCance, who makes her
homo with her daughter, Mrs. Walter
Ross, left yesterday afternoon for Co
zad to visit for a week or longer.
The Zeta Sieta club woro tho guests
of Mrs J. B. Redfield and Mrs. Asa Snow
at the home of the former Wednesday
afternoon at a kensington. Enjoyable
refreshments wero served.
Tho G. A. II. and the W. It. C. will
hold Joint Installation services at Odd
Fellows' hall tomorrow afternoon. Pre
ceding theso services a dinner will bo
served to the members of both orders.
Geo. Hardin who has lived in tho
north part of the county for thirty
years, has sold his 640-acro farm to a
party from Fullerton, who will take i
possession in March. At that tlmo
Mr. Hardin and family will move to
Fullerton. In making the sale ho took
as part payment two houses In Fuller
ton. The Club Nevlta held Its annual busi
ness meeting Wednesday at the homo of
Mrs. Ada Lewis. Tho officers elected
for tho ensuing year aro Mrs. W. P.
Snyder, president: Mrs. T. V. Austin,
vice-president; Mrs. Leslie Basklns,
secretary and treasurer and Mrs. O. H.
Thoelecke, reported. Tho election in
each Instance was unanimous. At the
close of the business a splendid lunch
eon was served by tho hostess.
Mnrttl.urettn Ilurkp Mnrrled
Miss Margharctta Burke, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Burke, former resi
dents of North Platte, wns married at
tho homo of her parents in Omaha
Wednesday nfternoon to Walter C.
Klopp, of Muleshoc. Toxas. Rov. Mac.
kay, of All Saints' Episcopal church,
performed tho ceremony. Tho bride,
who belongs to tho Kappa Kappa Uanui
sorority, wns attended by a slstor mem
ber, Miss Helen Chase, of Lincoln, nnd
woro her Roing awny gown or Aincan
brown trimmed with French (lowers,
and African brown boots. Tho only j
ornament she woro was a platinum pin
set witli diamonds, a wi ft of tho groom. I
Tho groom Is a Bota Theta Pi man, and
had a brother fraternity man as best
man. A number of out-of-town guests, 1
Including Mrs. John Brntt, of tills city,
wero present. Mr. and Mrs. Klppp Willi
bo at home nt Muleshoc, Texas, after ,
February 1st.
The bride was born In North Platte '
and spent her early childhood here.
Since making her dobut In Omaha so-,
cloty slio lias been very popular.
ItoliprlN Cnnp Continued I
At tho request of Assistant Attorney
Gonoral Roe, argument in the case of
Roy Roberts has been continued from
Jnnunry 17th to Fobruary 1st. Roborts
was convicted in tho Lincoln county I
district court on tho charge of murder
ing Vernon Connott and given tho death
penalty. His attorney, J. T. Koofc,
took the case to tho supreme court on
error. Since conviction Roberts has
been In tho penitentiary. j
Crimen Canlliln(( for lle-Elcctlon I
A petition Is being circulated asking
that the name of II. M. Grimes bo placed
on tho prlmnry ballot for nomination as
Judge of tho Thirteenth Judicial dis
trict. If Judgo Grimes is to havo nn
opponent, tho latter has not yet mado
himself publicly known. However, no
matter what opposition tho Judgo may
have, ljs nomination Is assured and his
election next November a certainty. ;
I'AltMIJUS' IMOX HOLDS
FIRST AXXl'AI. MEETING
The first annual mcottng of tho Lin
coln .County Farmers' Educational
and Co-operntlvo Union wns hold In this
city yesterday. There aro olovon local
unions In tho county, nnd theso wero
represented by thirty or moro del
egates. Theso eleven unions havo a
membership of about 300.
Sessions woro hold botlt In tho fore
noon and afternoon and tho different
phases of tho business In which tho
Union cngngos woro discussed, Tho
principal speaker was Stato Organlzor
O. E. Weed, of Lincoln, but talks woro
also made by Messrs. S. S. Reynolds of
Mnxwell, Georgo Ferbracho of Bird
wood, Goo. Cary and S. E. Anderson of
O'Fnllon.
By request E. S. Davis appeared bo
foro the meeting and explained his plan
for rural credit. This plan so ploasod
the fdolegates present that thoy unan
imously endorsed it, and passed a reso
lution asking tliat tho plnn bo en
dorsed by tho stnto convention which
meets at Grand Island next weok.
Tho olllcors of tho past year wero re
elected. Theso aro: I. B. Bostwlck, of
Nowell, president; R. 1. Chnppello, of
Sutherland, vico president, nnd A. J.
Samelson, of O'Falton, secretary and
treasurer.
Tho Union Is now successfully con
ducting a lumber and coal yard and el
ovator at Ilorshoy, a gonoral storo at
Sutherland nnd expect to establish a
business at Maxwell.
I'rrMltj'terlnii Clmreli. 1
11 a. . Children's service, children's
singing, children's sermon. You aro In
terested. Como.
7:30 p. m. Good music, a warm wel
come, a helpful service. Pnstor's thomo:
"Tho Young Man and his Body," Tills is
tho first of a series of six addresses
to young men. Young man wo aro In
terested In your problems. Come.
lllllliirtl Tournament Staged.
Stoward Smith, of tho Elks' home lias
staged another billiard tournament be
tween tenms captained by Harry
Fleishman nnd Arthur Hoaglund. There
are about thirty players to each team.
Tho defeated team will pay for a baked
bean supper to he served nt the home
on tho evening of January 24th.
Earl Palmer, of tho Sutherland sec
tion, and two companions killed a coy
ote the other day that weighed soven-ty-threo
pounds. This big fellow was
the king of tho coyotes in that section
and though frequently seen, eluded his
pursuers until this week.
A flro originating from the gasollno
lighting plant was discovered in tho A.
B. Yates store at Sutherland Wednes
day nicht in time to bo extinguished
before much damage ensued. I
Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Cross returned a'
few days ago from a two weeks' visit
In Overton with relatives.
Tho Ladles' Auxiliary of tho Harry
E. Brown camp U. S. W. V. organized
yosterday afternoon In tin First Na
tional bank hall and docldod to uso tho
same name as the camp, Tho following
olllcors wero olectcd: President, Mrs.
Will Eshcluian; senior vico president,
Mrs Leonard Robinson: Junior vico
president, Mrs. E. E. Moody; chnplln,
Mrs. Chas. Hanor; Patriotic Instructor,
Mrs. Chas. Crosby; secretary, Mrs. Roy
Murdoch; historian, Mrs. Clyde Mc
Mlchael; conductor,Mrs. Norwack; as
sistant conductor, Mrs. Chas. Scaton;
guard, Mrs. Weeds; assistant guard,
Mrs. A. W. Brown.
The banquet to bo tendered the vis
iting sheriffs will bo hold at tho Pros
byterlnn church basement next Mon
day evening and will bo served by tho
ladles of that church. Tho oxpenso of
this banquot will bo mot by tho indi
vidual business men, each paying for a
plate for a guest and ono for hlmsolf.
It is expected that at loast ono hundrod
will bo prcsont. v
Dr. J. Everett Fonda was operated ,
upon in Chicago Tuesday for appendl-l
citl8 and a telegram recolved by his
parents yesterday announced that ho
w!hs recovering satisfactorily. He ex
pects to como homo on a visit as soon
as he Is able to loavo tho hospital. Dr. I
Fonda has been practicing dentistry in
Chicago since last Juno.
Tho Ice harvest on tho Union Pacific
lake east of town has progroBsed at a
good gait this weok, tho avorago being
about forty cars a day. Thoro Is a
shortage of cars, else one-half more
could have been loaded.
Secretary Tomplo, of tho Chamber of
Commerce, received a telegram yester
day stating thnt tho Lincoln Hlghwny
dims will bo exhibited hero January
18th Instead of January 17th.
Mr and Mrs. John Burko will lenvo
today for Omaha and othor onstortt
points to visit relntlves.
.A. "Very Special
73 Special!
Our customers havo long ago learned that our week-end
Candy Specials are values that thoy can secure nowhere
else and at no other time. Today and tomorrow we shall
offer one that wil even beat our own past records. Here
Is a pound package of delicious Hawaiian Pineapple
cream covered with the finest Milk Chocolate, each piece
in an individual bonbon cup. Special for today Qfln
and Saturday, per box -. uuC
WILCOX DEPARTMENT STOKE.
LOCAL AND PERSONAL.
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Williams, of Os
kaloosa, Iowa, arrived a fow days ago
to visit Mr. and Mrs. Wlllads Hansen.
J. T. Keofo returned returned yester
day from Sioux Cttv whoro ho had
been visiting relatives for a couplo ofj
Tho revival sorviccs conducted at
Sutherland by Evangelist Clutter clos
ed Sunday night with thirty accessions
to tho church.
Will Hondy, Chan. Hendy and ono or
two others occupied an nutomobllo that
crossed tho now bridge east of town
this wook, and yostorday John and D,
M. Brooks crossed over on a motor
cycle. Tho west end 1111 Is not com
pleted, but by careful driving It can bo
navigated.
At a mooting of tho North Platto Rlllo
Club Wednesday ovonlng tho following
olllcors wero elected: Dr. T. J. Kerr,
prosldent; A. W. Shilling, vico presi
dent: A. W. Brown, socrotnry; E. E.
Moody, treasurer and Julius Hoga ex
ecutive olllcer. t was decided to or
ganize a rlflo team from among tho
best marksmen of tho club.
Earl Jennings, living northwest of
Sutherland, loaded up a musket his
father had purchased at a sale for two
bits and lirod It off. When tho smoke
clenrod away Earl was found uncon
scous. having boon struck o n tho foro
head by a portion of tho brooch pin, and
ono hand was badly lacerated. It was
considered a closo -call.
Georgo Frator returned yostorday
from Rising City whoro ho spent a
week.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Earl Hamilton and baby
returned last evening from Omaha and
Lincoln whoro thoy wero tho guests
of rolntlvos.
For Sale A Round Oak soft coal
stovo In good condition, S7.D0. North
I'latto Light & Power Co. 102-4
Miss Mabel Sawyor entertntnod a
nuinbor of friends last evening in favor
of Miss Jnno Cashing, of Omaha. After
u very enjoyable evening an olaborato
threo course luncheon was servod.
Roy Mcaill, of Ellis, Kansas, Is ox
poctod today to spend a weok. Mrs
McGUl has been visiting hor parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Earhart for two
months.
Tho rogulnr monthly meeting of a
Twentloth Century club will bo held nt
tho Chamber of Commerce rooms Tues
day ovonlng, Jan. 11th, at eight o'clock.
Tho president desires a full attendance
of tho membors.
At n mooting of Harry E, Brown camp
No. 11, U. 8. W. V., held Tuesday even
ing at tho Shilling home, tho following
olllcors worq installed: Commander, S.
T, Clark; Benior vico commander, W. E.
House; Junior vice comandor, J. W. Ro
land; olllcer of tho day, C. W. Likes;
olilcor of tho guard, JuIIub Hoga; trus
too, A. W. Brown: adjutant, A. W. Shill
ing; qunrtermastor, Luthor Tucker;
chaplln. A. F. Hammond; historian,
Clydo McMichaol; color sargonts, E. VS.
Moody and Chas. Hanor; quartermas
ter sargent, Tim u'lveoro.
"3-3 -3
BWWMPieGESS!
THIS IS THE SALE YOU HAVE WAITED FOR IT'S A SALE THAT'S WORTH WAITING FOR HUNDREDS OFREAL BARGAINS IN DEPENDABLE MERCHANDISE,
INCLUDING SUCH LINES AS ADLER'S CLOTHING, LEWIS' UNION SUITS, MANHATTAN SHIRTS, UP1IAM SHOIiS AND WILSON BROTHERS' FURNISHING GOODS.
EVERY ARTICLE IN THIS SALE BEARS THE ORIGINAL PLUCK TICKET. OUR REPUTATION FOR TRUTHFUL ADVERTISING IS BACK OF EVERY ARTICLE SOLD.
Men's All Wool Suits Men's Overcoats Men's Odd Trousers
Made by America's Leading Tailors In long, shawl and convertible collars, includring Adler's 20 PER CENT OFF
$10.00 Suits now $ 7.75 Famous Collegian Overcoats including Cnsoiineres, Worsteds, Corduroys, Kakhi, Whip
$12.50 Suits now $ 9.75 2.50 Overcoats now $ 9.75 Cord d Mole8dns
h $35.00 Overcoats now $11.75 ,.-, nn r,ta Sn
$15.00 Suits now $11-75 1800 and $20 overcoats now $15.75 ' jg-gg -f g
$20.00 Suits now $15.75 $22.50 and $25 Overcoats now $17.75 goo Pants now $1.60
All $22.50 and $25.00 Suits 20 per cent off. One lot of all wool Overcoats that sold for $15 now $7.75 $2.50 Pants now $2!oO
2 lots of men's and young men's suits, sizes from 33 to 37, T. r imf Cr , (m.r(, . 0ft VVJt npi? Pants now 2.40
$10 00 and $12 50 Suits OC 7C ALL I UR is 1 Ul Lift ED U YLRLUAJ S -U iEIt 1 Ull1 $3.50 Pants now $2.80
vpDif 0 ZZ r7" " try 7" " $4.00 Pants now $3.20
$15.00,' $18.00, $20.00 and $22.50 Suits (Ml 7C BoyS LOOg OTOrCOatS $4.50 Pants now $3.60
Choi of 9" ent " loToo I5g lilso ..
RAINCOATS AND CRAVENETTES 20 PER CENT OFF. $10.00 Overcoats now $5.95 SHEEP LINED COATS 20 PER CENT OFF
$12.00 Overcoats now $G.95 "
BOYS' KNEE PANTS MEN'S HATS $15.00 Overcoats now $7.95 MANHATTAN SHIRTS UNDERWEAR
ITo ISSS SSS :::::::::::& 20 S CEM Boys' Knee Pants Suits 20 51? CENT Moys UnI: and two
$1.00 Pants now .75c The kind that have built us a reputation, STEEL FIBRE Ofl JSS CENT
$1.50 and $2 Pants now $1.15 and W0OLWEAR CX 01F
MEN,S SII0ES 1 3LLIN b CA1 S Al $? 5() Twq panta gults nQw $(J Q0 ALL FLANNEL SHIRTS TRAVELING GOODS
(Rciral and Sclz not included) 00 PER CENT Al1 $G-50 Two Pants Sults now $5-20 nn vn tpxt Grips, Suit Cases and Trunks
IJfcgm ana otu i ; OFF All $0.00 Two pants Suits now $4.80 l CEia nn PER CENT
lj off One lot Boy's One pant Suits that sold at $3.00 and $3.50 fcU U1A U OFF
, ' MEN'S HOSIERY now $1.95. ;
One lot Men's Work and Dress 1U1 0ne lot Boy.s 0ne pant Suits tUat soid at $4 and $4.50, MENS DRESS GLOVES Mu,ls SQSSS
Shoes that sold at $4.00, (IntorWoven not included now $25)5. uwva SWEATER COATS
$4.50 and $5.00, now nn PER CENT One lot Boys' One pant Suits that said at $5.00 and $6.00 Oft. PER CENT Of) PER CENT
32.95 AOFF j now $8.05. &V OFF ZU OFF
North Platte
HARCOURT & JENSEN
Nebraska
we
