fatti
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1916.
NUMBER 46.
li
ew Year's Racing
Was Great Success
Honolulu Horse Takes Money In Big
Event But Maui Horses Do Well In
Other Races Cowboy Sports Good
Maul's New Year's races and
frontier sports celebration was a
glorious success in very way except
from a money-making standpoint. In
tills last, however, the promoters of
the big enterprise, Angus Mcl'hee and
Frank H. Locey, are feeling good
over the fact that while they did not
make money, they at least broke
even.
But the day was probably the big
gest one ever held at the Kahulul
track. Over 2500 paid admissions
were recorded, and best of all the big
crowd felt that It got Us money's
worth,. The racing was good, but
iftrnck was heavy from the recent
ins, and the time in all of the race
cnts was rather slow. The fact that
e Honolulu visitors took back the
irse in the big trotting and pacing
ee-for-all, won by Tom Hollinger's
'clcome Boy, and a good bit of Maul
toney besides this, did not dampen
me enthusiam of Maul sportsmen.
The amount of the purses paid
i mounted to between $1800 and $1900,
vhile the gate receipts totaled a lit-
tie over $2000. Other expenses and
, profits about off-set each other.
' While the failure of the excursion
f'tenmer to come from Honolulu, ow-
lg to the fact that the men of the
ourth Cavalry were prevented from
oming by storm damage to their
uarters, there were about 100 visit
irs from the city. The Fourth Cavalry
and, which did come, added greatly
ji the success of the occasion.
;owboy Stunts a Novelty.
The frontier sports events, which
ccupied most of the afternoon, fol
wing the race program, was a great
ovelty to the Maui audience, and it
s quite certain that this was but the
Irst of many more elaborate affairs
)f this kind. From the fact that the
;ame was a new one, many ot the
best cowboys on Maui were a little
diffident at first, and it took some lit
i tie persuasion to get them Into the
spirit of the game. However, before
tlhe day was finished a more ejithu
siiietic bunch would have been jhard
to find.-and It quite certain thnt'tlje
next contest of the kind pulled oft on
Maui will find more candidates-.tor
the honors than can bo accommodat
ed. Denervo Wins First Heat. Wy'
I Welcome Boy got his revenge over
llast Fourth of July's defeat from
, Angus McPhee's Denervo, by taking
the second, third and fourth heats in
the big trotting-pacing event. Den-
mtyo took the first heat in the rather
mw ume oi t.ia o-o, uui wub uunuic
to keep up the strain, and In the icc-
ond beat Tom Hollinger's entry elaim
eayflrat place In 2:24. After this Wel
come Boy Improved, making third
heat in 2:19 2-5, and the final heat in
2:23 3-5. Betting was even on this
race, and a good deal of it changed
.hands as a result
Other events were as follows:
Third Event Half-mile dash, free-
for-all Won by Dr. Fitzgerald's
Copra over Jerry Broderlck's Harv
ester. Time, 52.
Fourth Event Fat Man's Race, 100
yards. First prize $10 Won by
Sherilt Clem Crowell, with David Ka
ina taking second place, and the $5
' that wont with it. George Cummings
, formed the field. Thin wa ono of the
I funny stunts of the Cuy
Fifth Event Japanese Race, half
mile dash. Purse $100 Won by Lai
den. Yokohama 2nd. Time 0:55 1-5.
Sixth Event Three-Year-Old,
mile dash: Purse $250 Won by H. A
Baldwin's Senator B., Copra 2nd. Time
1:22 3-5.
Seventh Eevent Foot Race, 220
yard dash; Purse, a gold medal Won
by Tommie Cummings; William Mor
ris, 2nd; Frank Coeiho and A. Taylor,
also ran. Time 0:24 4-5.
.' Eighth Event Trotting or Pacing
' 2:15 class; Purse $400 Won by Har-
old D. entered by Joe Silva, over Maul
Boy, of James Cornwell. Time, 2:29,
2:28, 2:23. Harold D. took all heats
Mt.il Hotel Cup Novelty Race
. Mile-and-a-half-dash. This race was
between Frances B. (H. A. Baldwin)
and Harvester (Jerry Broderlck).
Harvester won the race in the finish
in 2:52 2-5, taking the cup and $100
purse, but Frances B. led almost to
the finish, and took each of eleven
$25 purses offered to the horse In the
. lead at each eighth-mile post.
Steer Riding Contest
Willie Smythe and Manuel Francis
shnrrd honors in the steer riding con'
test, probably the first of this kind
ever seen on Maui. The possibilities
of this sDort were Isufllclnyet a aota
of this sport were sufficiently demon-
Htrated in this event to mane it cer
tain that it wil be of much interest in
future affairs of the kind. Both men
were awarded $15 for their Ting
Konlna Contest.
George Richardson won the steer
i .-.nine- contest from Ed. Linasay, roii
ing and tying his animal to a tree in
45 seconds. Lindsay did his trick in
, 1:7. The prize in this event was $15
' Rrnnrho Bust no.
& i . i . . m nnooalnoaa nn the
Wrt of the management had existed
h to whether the buckers provided'
Promotionists Meet
Here Next Week
Plan To Arrive Next Friday For Three-
Day Session Will Make Halea
kala Trip.
Worth O. Aiken, the Maul represen
tative of the Hawaii Promotion Com
mittee, has been advised that the
members of the committee will hold
a meeting on Maul, January 15th to
17th inclusive. This will be the meet
ing which was to have been held here
In November, but Which was called off
at the last moment when several
members found it impossible to at
tend. Mr. Aiken states that practically all
of the members will probably be here
this time They plan to come up on
the Claudine on Friday the 14th, land
ing the same night at Lahaina, and
coming over to Wailuku the following
day. The party will make the ascent
of Haleakala and will probably hold a
meeting in Wailuku on Saturday or
Monday. A dinner will probably be
given them on Monday evening, fol
lowing which they will leave to take
the Mauna Kea at Lahaina. Should
it be possible for the members to re
main over until Wednesday, it is
planned to take them over the ditch
trail.
The promotion committee at pres
ent made up of E. A. Berndt, chair
man, Ed Towse, A. F. Wall, Ben Hol
linger, L. A. Thurston, D. P. R. Isen
berg (Kauai), G. H. Vicars (Hawaii),
and W. O. Aiken (Maul). A. P. Tay
lor, director and secretary of the com
mittee, will also attend the Maul
meeting.
-q
AND THE BABY WON'T TELL.
It isn't every 6-months-old baby that
gets his picture (in his birthday suit)
reproduced on the front page of a
city newspaper, as a "New Year
Baby." But such is the distinction
that has overtaken the husky young
son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Correa,
of Wailuku. Young "Sonny" seems to
have stolen a march on his parents,
who were greatly surprised to recog
nize their young hopeful's likeness
as the principal feature of the Hon
olulu Advertiser's New Year's greet
ing .
ENTRIES OPEN FOR H. A.
BALDWIN CUP TOURNAMENT
Entries for the Maui championship
doubles tournament for the Harry A.
Baldwin cup are now being received
bv David Rattray, secretary of the I'u-
unene Athletic cluD. 'Hie Tournament
will start probably the latter part of
the month, entries closing on the l&tn.
The cup is at present held by Collins
and Lindsay of the Paia club. It must
be won twice in succession by the
same team in order to be held perma
nentlv. Much interest is being mani
tested in this tournament, which is
open to all Maui players, and indica
tions are that a large numuer or con
testants will be in the field this year,
It is probable that the Wailuku play
ers will make a strong try for the tro
phy this year.
for this event would really "buck
when the time came, this proved to
be groundless, for there was some
very fancy demonstrations on the part
of the bad horses, that made lots of
excitement for the big crowd. David
Kulakoi won the $65 saddle offered
in this contest as first prize, and J
Hardy got the second prize of $25
cash, and Waiwaiole, for being the
most graceful taller, got $5 in cash
Maikai Kaillilikl won the first prize
of $10 and Manuel Francis the second
prize of $5 ,in the calf branding con
test
Low Beaten By McPhee.
In the final contest Angus McPhee
beat by a good margin his friend
Eben Low in a roping contest one
of the features of the day. Both of
these contestants are minus a hand,
and both are old timers at the game,
Mcl'hee roped and tied his animal in
1:37. The Honolulu roper, in a pre
vious contest in 1908 did the trick
in 1:6. McPhee, the year previous
to that at Cheyenne, Wyoming, made
the record, before he lost his hand
of 35 2-5 seconds, taking the cham
pionship. The contest last Saturday
was for a stake of $250, and the out
fit of the loser.
Japanese Were Scarce.
Owing to the fact that the Japanese
celebrate New Years differently from
other nationalities, there were very
few of this race at the races, although
ordinarily they are one of the main
stays of racing meets on Maui. How
ever the Portuguese and other nation
alities of Maui more than made up in
attendance.
Officer! of the Meet.
The officers of the day were Angus
McPhee and F. II. Locey, promoters
and managers.
Judges of all races S. S. Taxson
George Kinney, H. G. Field.
Judges of all Cowboy Sports D.
Fleming, W. A. Clark, A. Betts.
Starters A. Mcl'hee, F. H. Locey
Time-keepers J. J. Walsh, J. IX
Mclnerny.
Clerk
Judge
Clerk of Course W. E. Bal, Sr.
Clerk George Cummings.
Military Ball Was
Brilliant Success
Elite of Maui Usher New Year In
Gen. Johnson and Mrs. Pcnhallow
Lead Grand March.
Between four and five hundred per
sons attended the big National Guard
ball at the Wailuku armory on New
Year's eve, and the affair was not only
one of the largest, but was probably
the most brilliant social function e er
given on Maul. Every part of Maul
was fully represented, and many vis
itors from Honolulu were also pres
ent Brigadier -GenerHl Samuel I.
Johnson representing the Governor,
led the grand march, with Mrs. Harry
Penhallow, and the big armory
floor wa s thronged with animatec
dancers in this opening event. With
the smart white uniforms of the offi
cers of the Third regiment and the
scores of magnificent costumes of the
ladles , the scene was indeed a brill
iant and inspiring one. The dancing
continued until between two and
three o'clock of New Year's morning
Music was furnished by the 4th
Cavalry band and Miss Hoffman's or
chestra, alternating, and the floor was
crowded almost continuously. In
spile of the spaciousness of the ar
mory, which has just been enlarged,
the crowd of dancers was at times too
great for comfort.
Fine Program.
Prior to the grand march a most
interesting program had been nr
ranged, consisting of several excellent
monologues by W. H. Hutton of Hon
olulu, who came up for the purpose
solo by H. W. Baldwin "Danny
Deever," a bayonet drill by Company
G, and an excellent Butt's manual of
arms drill by Company I (to music),
and a similar drill, but in silence,
Every feature was good and greatly
appreciated.
The success ot the entire affair is
due in a large measure to the hard
work of the committee of officers who
had the preparations in charge. Capt.
W. H. Young was chairman of the
committee, and T. D. Collins was sec
retary. The other members of the
committee were Capts. W. F. Kaae.
O. J. Whitehead. J. J. Walsh, Henry
Roblt ion, Lts. F. A. Lufkin, R. von
Tempsky, J. S. B. McKenzie, George
Murray, .W. F. Chilllngworth and A.
Robinson.
NEW YEAR'S EVE DANCE
AT COMMUNITY HOUSE
A very enjoyable New Year's Eve
dance was held at the Paia Commun
ity House, entertaining the members
of the younger social set. Pleasant
games, followed by dancing were ar
ranged by Mrs. H. A. Baldwin and
Mrs. F. A. Stevens. The rooms were
charmingly decorated, and with Gon
salves's orchestra rendering insplrinsr
music, the dancers about one hundred
in number, found the hour of closing
came far too soon.
PRIZE ESSAY CONTEST ON
PATRIOTISM ANNOUNCED
In order to stimulate American pat
riotism in the territory, and to in
crease the interest in the study of
American citizenship, the Hawaiian
Society of the Sons of the American
Revolution, and the Aloha Chapter,
Daughters of the American Revolu
tion, have joined in offering prizes for
essays on the subject of "The True
American Citizen." One set of prizes
is offered to High School pupils in
the territory, and the other set will
be given to writers who are not in
school, but who are under the age of
22 years. Each set of prizes consists
of one first prize of $10, two second
prizes of $5 each, and five third prizes
of $2 each.
The prizes will be awarded at the
Hawaiian Opera House, Honolulu, on
Washington's Birthday, and the
judges of the essays are Judge W. L.
Whitney, George S. Raymond, and
Mrs. Wade Warren Thayer. All es
says must be in not later than Feb
ruary 1.
PECULIAR SUIT BROUGHT
AGAINST DISTRICT MAGISTRATE
The third of a series of suits in as
many weeks, brought by Attorney
Eugene Murphy against Judge W. A.
McKay, Wailuku, district magistrate,
to recover money deposited in the
court to cover costs In various ac
Hons, was tried today before District
Magistrate Gay S. Goodness, of the
Makawao district. The suit involved
the return costs in five small cases,
and amounted in all to $5.40. Judge
ment was rendered for $1.70 and for
50 cents, In two of the specifications,
the defense 'winning the other three,
It is possible that the matter may be
appealed.
There was no controversy as to the
facts in the case. Murphy admitting
that he knew the money could be had
provided he would sign a receipt to
the court clerk for the same, but he
had refused to do this. D . H. Case
and Enos Vincent represented Judge
McKay as attorneys.
Sanitarium Children
Are Without School
Many Others in District Would Bene
fit By Model Health School Planned
Christmas a Glad Day For Them
Because there are at present eight
children In the institution who should
be in school, but have no opportunity
under present conditions, Dr. C. P.
Durney, superintendent of the Kula
Sanitarium, Is considering bringing
to the attention of the board of su
pervisors, at its next week's meeting,
the need of establishing a school at
th e sanitarium. Dr. Durney states
that there are perhaps 20 or 30
children in the district, who would
be benefitted by being in such a
school as he has in mind. The class
of children he refers to are such as
havpuberculous tendency, who are
anaemic, or otherwise not normal.
Should it be possible to have this
school established, Dr. Durney states
that he will plan to have the children
served with nutritious food, as a part
of their treatment, with the object
of building up their constitutions and
checking possible development of
tuberculosis or other disease.
While there are but 8 children pa
tients actually in the hospital at the
present time, Dr. Durney expects, now
that the new women's and children's
ward has been completed, and facili
ties increased, that the number of
children will soon be considerably in
creased. If the county can see its
way clear to build the small school
building and a teacher's cottage, it
will probably be easy to get a com
petent instructor appointed by the
school department.
Bright Christmas At Kula.
In spite of torrential rains, Christ
mas day at the Kula sanitarium was a
very bright one for all of the unfor
tunates. This was due largely to the
efforts of Mrs. Harry Baldwin, Mrs.
Frank Baldwin, and Mrs. Harold Rice,
who saw to it that every patient was
bountifully remembered. Every one
received real Christmas presents, and
every one appreciated the fact. There
was a fine Christmas tree in the new
H. C. & S. ward, and James Cumming,
of Paia, did the Santa Claus stunt in
distributing the gifts, to perfection.
The children of the sanitarium gave a
pretty little program of songs and re
citations. SCHOOL LECTURE COURSE
TO BEGIN NEXT FRIDAY
'Stepping Stones to Success," is
the subject of a short address which
will be given next Friday afternoon
.t the Wailuku Public School, by D.
H. Case, to the pupils of the upper
grades in the school, and to the gen
eral public, which is cordially invited
This is the first of the series of ad
dresses which has been arranged for,
by Miss Crickard, the principal, to be
given twice each month during the
balance of the school year. The pro
gram prepared for next Friday, will
begin promptly at 1 o'clock.
Plenty of Liquor But
Not One Drunk At Races
a
With one of the biggest
crowds assembled in the history
of Maul, there was not a single
drunken man observed at the
races at Kahulul on New Year's
Day.
"This is probably the first
time in history that such a
statement can be made," says
Sheriff Clem Crowell. "It Is not
a case, this time, of saloons be
ing closed .for there was no re
striction on the sale of liquor.
The Kahulul saloon was entire
ly empty of customers at vari
ous times during the day. It
was simply a case of the people
not wanting liquor. There was
not an arrest made during the
day. A similar state of affairs
is reported also from liana and
from Lahaina. It was an ex
ceedingly quiet New Years, as
far as the police court is con
cerned." PRETTY HOME WEDDING.
A quiet home wedding was solem
nized on New Year's evening, at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Hart
of Wailuku, when their daughter, Miss
Louisa Keohi Hart became the bride
of Mr. George William Weight, of
Hilo. The ceremony took place at 6
oclock, and was performed by the Rev
J. C. Villlers, past of the Church of the
Good Shepherd. Only the members
of the family and a few of the more
intimate friends of the young people
were witnesses.
The bride, who is a Maui girl of
many rare qualities, has been a teach
er at Camp 1 school for some time
Mr. Weight, who is a nephew of
George Weight, of Wailuku, is con
nected with the government dredging
work at Hilo.
"MONROE DOCTRINE TO
BE UPHELD"-WILSON
Western World Must Stand Together, He Declares.
Proof Lacking In Persia Sinking British
Stirred Over Conscription Plans.
HONOLULU, January
HONOLULU, January 7. Admiral Stanford, head of yards and
clocks hoard, advises congressional committee to close Marc Island
Navy yard station, as unlit for service. Other adequate bases on
western coast. Pearl Harbor and Bremerton are both capable of hand
ling biggest drcadnaughts, witness tells law-makers at hearing. News
comes as a surprise, after secretary of navy awarded contract for 32-ton
dreadnaught, and is a severe blow to California.
WASHINGTON, January 7. President favors Panama-American
pact. He tells delegates that the western world must be united.
Universal defense is urged. lie advocates arbitration and serves notice
that the Monroe doctrine will be maintained.
The Philippine problem is before Senate. Senator Hitchcock
makes first speech favoring famous
pposcs measure, which holds out
future congress.
LONDON, January 7. Troops
pedition were untried, according to
to that alone was due failure of enterprise.
COPENHAGEN, January 7.
The Hague in special field train which will have blinds drawn when
passing through German provinces.
TOKIO, January 7. Yoshihito
and grand military review will be
T TrnT T r T 1
w.nuu.n, January . L,anor,
commons, voted almost 3 to 1 against conscription bill. It won out
by a vote of 300 over opposition.
WASHINGTON, January 7.
ship Persia was torpedoed. State
will never be secured.
LONDON, January 7. Driving
sian advance in Galicia is reported
TOKIO, January 7. Yuan Shih
South China.
HONOLULU, January 7.
dismissed. She pleaded guilty to
Will leave for coast by Niagara today.
Dr. C 13. Looicr has been advanced to rank of lieutenant-colonel
of the national guard.
Rumor that Judge Stuart offered resignation, which was accepted,
cannot be traced to source.
WASHINGTON, January 6.
Penfield has cabled from Vienna
Austrian government the request of America for information as to
the sinking of the Persia, presumably by an Austrian submarine. No
reply received from Austria. Consul Carrels, U .S. official at Alex
andria, who has been instructed to
day that he is unable to gather any
under which the P. & O. liner was
NEW YORK, January 6.
liner carrying guns as issued, has
ment to adjust that of an armed liner entering an American port
simultaneously it is revealed that the Italian vessel is taking a means
of protecting itself against attack
Verdi arrived from Genoa today with 2 1-inch guns mounted in the
stern. Passengers on the vessel declared that the Italian government
is resiKinsible for thus arming the liner, and that the guns are intended
to reiK'l submarines, in case a Teuton diver tried to attack passenger
ship. Skilled gunners of Italian navy are in charge of the guns on
Guiseppe Verdi. They practiced daily while steamer was coming from
Italy, say the passengers. Barrels were thrown overboard, and the
navy men shot at them with the inch guns.
WASHINGTON, January 6. State department will probably
argue the question raised with Italy as to the arrival of an armed vessel
liying the Italian flag. Thefacts that the Guiseppe Verdi carries the
guns may cause the department to ask that before the steamer leaves
American waters the guns be removed.
NEW YORK, January 0. The United States Steel Corporation,
today made public the fact that it has put into effect an increase of
10 per cent in the wages of all unskilled employees.
WASHINGTON, January 6. Estimates for appropriations sub
mitted to congress today disclose the fact that the navy department
proposes to spend $205,000 each in remodeling submarines F-l, F-2,
and F-3.
PEKING, January 6. President Yuan Shih Kai is having re
moved the military stores from centers subject to revolutionary attack.
LONDON, January 6. Great fight on conscription will be made
in British parliament today. Introduction by Asquith precipitates heat
ed debate in which bill receives severe denunciation. Plan is declared
to be un-British in principle. Sir John Simon says "Prussian mili
tarism;" while Irish and labor leaders announce they will not support
act.
DALLAS, Texas, January 6. With more than 15,000 cases of
grippe reported in this city since first of last month, doctors and board
of health have been driven to trying any expedient to check spread of
malady. It was announced yesterday that a vaccine has been dis
covered which mayfford relief.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 6. Huge war fund to oppose mon
archy in China, is being raised by Chinese in the United States, who
declare Yuan Shih Kai should not be allowed to remain cmperr-
NEW YORK, January 6. At meeting of advisory commit'
American defense four drcadnaughts are recommended.
SA NFRANCISCO, January 6. Revolutionist leaders ha
graphed from Shanghai that Gen. Lung Tswi Kong and familj
been arrested by rebels in Canton.
I 1'll I f A 1 ... . 1
ja-'-ni;w., January o. Another ship sailing under Belgian r
lief commission has been sunk by a floating mine.
(Continued
7. Sugar, $88.80.
Jones bill. Cummings of Iowa
promise which does not bind, any
which attempted Suiza Bay ex
opinion of Sir Ian Hamilton, and
Ford peace party is on way to
will greet military envoy of Czar
held in his honor.
1 f
as representee in tne nousc oi
There is no proof that the steam
department hears that legal proof
strength, like waves of sea, Rus
to be moving ahead.
- Kai strikes rebels in provinces of
Felony charges against Miss Spring,
misdemeanor, and was fined $350.
Ambassador Frederic Courtland
that he presented informally to the
gather all facts possible, cabled to
additional proof of circumstances
torpedoed.
With the arrival today of an Italian
brought up before the U. S. govern
of submarines. The Italian steamer
on Fage Five.)
il
V
