BOLT eve?7?j-o<ry who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30,000 paid drculation daily, whi-ch covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
:,:,?< ).
aVIEATHER
? va nabla???.. ... ???.?? ???^?-Wl
krre,? I I >l ?III ?I TWO I KSTi
BRITISH HOUSE VOTES
OVERWHELMINGLY FOR
CONSCRIPTION IN ARMY
Government Measure Providing for Compul
sory Military Service Passes Its First
Reading in Commons 403 to 1 05
VICTORY FOR ASQUITH MINISTRY
Three Members of the Cabinet, However, Offer Their Resig
nations as Result of Organized Labor's Oppo
sition to the Measure.
M.??.???! fable t. The Wa.fclm; t..? llrrnld.
London, Jan. 6.?The bill providing for compulsory military ser
vice passed its first reading in the House of Commons tonight by a vote
of 40?'i for and 10? against.
This large majority is considered as imlicating an overwhelming
victory for the government. The minority was composed erf Nationals,
Laborite-, and Radicals.
The following government officials later resigned as a result of
the cabinet's conscription policy :
Arthur Henderson, proident of the Board of Education and leader
of the I.abor party in the House of Commons.
George H. Roberts, jr., I?ord Commissioner of the Treasury and
Labor whip in the House of Commons.
Willianv Brace, parliamentary Under-secretary for Home Affairs.
(??aeraaReal te Pean Meaanre.
Notwithstanding these reslgnationa
inai the possibility of other?, the gov
ernment today adhered to Its determi
nation to get through the bill.
Mr. Henderson, wiio resigned today,
will ?t once take an appeal to his con
stituent? on the conscription issue. Ad
dressing the great labor congres? which
was suddenly convened today, he
served nolle? that if the congress de
cided to oppose the compulsory enlist
ment bill, he would immediately re
stjn and ask his constituents whether
or not they indorsed hi? action.
The answer of the congress ?aas to
vote overwhelmingly against conacrip
tion. un the first ballot, on a proposi
tion that the congre?.? support a meas
ure of compulsion for single men. the
vot? v?? I. Ml ?saw) to 541.00? ?gainst
til? plan. On a resolution to ?apport
? demand for the withdrawal of the
compulsory service bill from Parlia
ment the vote wa? 1.SS8.0OO for and
?HJII against. Finally a general
recommendation that the labor mem
bers of Psrliament oppose the bill was
adopted by a vote of 1.715.000 to S54.
0*0. There were 30? delegates pres
ent at the congres?, representing 100
l?bor unions with an approximate
membership of 3.000.0??. The decisive
vote against conscription on all ques
tions submitted is so convincing that
parliamentary leader? tonight pri
viteli concede that the pressure of
the bill will almost Inevitably lead to
? h appeal to the country.
The reault of the voting In the con
press was followed by a two-hour
?onfer?;nce of labor leader? in the
House of Common.?. Following this,
announcement of the resignations was
?sjasslc
< 'risi.? K s ?..-.? I ed Tandas.
Mr. Henderson Is to explain his posi
tion to the house next Tuesday, at
which time. It is feared, the crisis may
b? precipitated.
Four vacancies now exist In the
coalition ministry, including those of
today and the retirement of Sir John
A. Simon, the home secretary, yester
day
The political correspondent of the
I ?ally News, considering the involved
situation, prophesies a general election
within a fortnight with conscription aa
the sole issue. Such sn election, he
says, would probably sweep the con
servatives in two powers, and that
David Lloyd Georare. minister of muni
tions, would hold a commanding posi
tion In the cabinet.
Despite the outlook government lead
en today declared that the passage of
the conscription bill will be pressed.
They predicted It would be upon
statute books by Februsry 1. Debate
on the measure was resumed in the
house of common? today. Henry Duke.
?peeking in behalf of the meaaure, de
clared Parliament and the country mu?t
Judge between the supporter? of the
bill and the "malcontents and mischief
makers who. If they succeed In their
effort?, would wreck not only the gov
ernment but the empire."
HOICK" WITH THE HUNS.
Const Tlasvn So Tells Parllsrarnt
?Sefrrriag to ??lo.iiUI trreata.
Saoeaal Cebi? to TV? Waakiaanoa r?Vald.
Berlin (wireless via ?Jayvtue?. Jan. *.?
Count Tlaaa, the Hungarian prime min
uter. In Parliament today spoke of the
arrest ot the German. Austrian. Bui
?arlan snd Turkish consuls st Saloniki
which, be said, wsa a.violation of the
elementary principles of International
honor. According to the semi-official
Trans-Ocean New? Bureau, he ?alii
"We have the right on our side and
we are In a position to ?dopt measure.?
wehten will be a complete answer ?nd
whlcJi irtll ?usure us a final triumph by
further vletorie? ?nd obtain satt?fartlon
for a'! the Illegal proceeding? of th?
enemy."
The count added:
"We are ready to give efficient help
to Oreece In order to eafeguard her
s* ? Tets-iitr "
His Money Gone,
Bullet Ends Life
A. C. Gibbs Leaves Instruc
tions Regarding His Fu
neral Dress.
'Put me in my uniform in the bot
I torn drawer.**
Andrew C. Gibbs. 56, of 1231 Wie
I consin avenue northwest, wrote the
, note, placed it on a table, lay on his
? bed, then shot himself. The bullet
probably killed him Instantly, crash
ins through the roof of his mouth
fnffc hi? brain. The "uniform In the '
bottom drawer*' was found to be the
1 dress of the Order of Maccabees, of
which he had been a member for sev
eral years.
Gibbs was h single man and had
been out of employment for some time,
, Coroner Nevitt was told? He was a
I clerk.
The household did not hear the shot,
; but late in the afternoon, alarmed be
cause he had not come from hts room,
I the chamber wa? visited by his land- .
; lord. The body was found on the bed.
Coroner Nevitt declared he found no
? money in Gibbs' personal effects and.
| as the revolver was new, he presumed
! the man had spent his Last coin for
? the weapon.
NEW HAVEN TRIAL NEAR CLOSE.
I Jader H u ?.? (a ? hn re? ???, ? ...ir? ?
and Early Verdict la Expeeted.
Special to The Wtiiitnrtoo Herald.
New York, Jan. fi.?R. L. Baiti?, of
government counsel in th??? New Haven
director?* trial, declared today that the
defendants knew they were violating the
law ,n mc acts that form the basis of the
indictment.
"But most of u? could not violate this
tnw," he said in closing the government's
summary of the evidence. "The very
kind of men on trial here are the only
ones who could violate it. This section
of the anti-trust act must be enforced In
order that trust magnates of the future
may know that they will be punished for
disregarding it and not have to suiter
merely the Inconvenience of a dissolu
tion."
Judge Hunt will charge the jury tomor
row and a verdict I? expected before
nightfall.
AMERICA, ALPHA AND OMEGA.
At the R.-alcniua la the Middle
aad Near tke End, ?aya Judie??*,
Special te The WuhiDft?*- Herald.
New Tork, Jan. 6.?Hyphenated Ameri
cans who place their personal feelings
above patriotism and loyalty to the
United States should not remain here.
ThU declaration was made today by
Federal Judie Clayton in swearing In
the grand Jury which will take up the
government's Investigation Into viola
tions of neutrality and carry on the work
of the grand Jury that indicted the offi
cials of the Hamburg-American Line and
others In connection with conspilracles.
"I have no patience with any man who
has feelings other than that of America
flrst. last and forever," announced Judge
Clayton.
VESUVIUS VOMITING AGAIN.
Spadai Cable to The Wanbiagtoa Herald.
Naples, Jan. ?.?Mount Vesuvius Is
again in eruption. During the night the
activity Increased, explosion following
explosion. There were-t-ontlnuous rumb
lings. The volume of smoke is Increas
ing. Enormoua quantities of hot rock
and lava are thrown ?.??? and 1,500 yards.
Prof. Malladra anounced that the
crater Is rapidly filling, excluding any
danger for the pres-ent.
tale? -4a4i?c? Bank. 191? ( ktlilm?
Savings Club. Classe? Oc, ?Oc, ti, and i?.
WANTS TO SEE
A STRONG U. S.
Senator Williams Wouldn't
Hit First But He Would
Hit Hard.
IS "PEACE FANATIC" AND SO
HE FAVORS PREPAREDNESS
Beware the Victor at End of War, He
Warns in Speech Supporting
President's Policies.
Declaring that he Is a "peace fanatic,"
but that this country faase? grave danger
of attack at the end of the European wsr,
Senator John Sharp William?, of Missis
sippi, today made a stirring plea for pre
paredness on the floor of the Senate.
"I do not want to shed the blood of any
people, but I do not want anyone to shed
mine." he declared.
Senator Wtl'lams. a Democrat and a
member? of the Korelctn Relation? Com
mittee, also stronsly defended this coun
try'? action in ?selling munitions of war
to belligerents. He said In part:
"This government laid down the rule
In Ha very first administration that the
citisene or subjects of a neutral country
had a right to sell munitions of war to
either belligerent? in ?ar. That was In
dorsed by Washington after Jefferson
had reduced It to writing.
"In God's name what chance would our
country have in a naval war witli Great
Britain or a land war with Germany if
we could not buy munition?, from neutral |
powers? We would be condemned before
hand to absolute International slavery.
We would be subjected to bullying by
every first class i>ower In the world who
possessed the strength.
"The ejatabllshment of a doctrine that
we had no right to ship munitions of
war to belligerents would hamstring us
to an extent greater than It would ham
string any other first class power on
earth, because the main object of our
i^vvrrnment Is to develop the Individual
and not to prepare for war except when
an emergency mak?*? It necessary.
Senator William? continuing said this
nation should beware the victor in the
present war with million? ot men under
arms and the lust for conquest. He
aald he did not anticipate an attack at
first but he did anticipate "bullying."
The American people will not stand for
that, he said.
Readers of the
New Sunday Herald
Are Assured
The Best Store News
LANSBURGH & BRO.,
I Washington's Progressive Department Store,
Has Notified Us They Will Present
Their Very Best Offerings
For Monday Shoppers
Using Either Full or Double-Page Space
Every Sunday Throughout the Year 1916
Beginning With
A Double-Page Advertisement
Next Sunday, January 9
Every other line of retail merchandise that the public
has been accustomed to keep in touch with every Sunday
through newspaper advertising will be found represented
in next Sunday's HERALD. You can buy this merchandise
from Sunday HERALD advertising with the satisfied
knowledge that you are purchasing guaranteed money's
worth?See The HERALD'S personal guarantee in right
"ear" space at top of this page.
A Seventh-day Continuation of a Newspaper
Like the IVeek-day Issues of
The IVashington Herald
Phil all of those special features that contain real live
news of interest to all Washington?Julia Chandler
Manz's Dramatic Department, the Weekly Sports Re
view, edited by "Bill" Peet, dean of Washington
sport writers; "Doings of Society," Fraternal,
Church, Army and Navy news ;
Plus a four-page, four-color Comic Section to appease the
kiddies and those older children of the family, like
grandpa, who absolutely refuse to "grow up."
DD?rr of the New A ?
1 KILL Sunday Herald IC
At News Stands or Debvered to Your Door.
Wilson Would Have Americas
As Peace Model for World
President Before Pan-American Delegates Outlines Steps for
Promoting Common Ideals of Republics?Urges Arbi
tration and Guaranty of Territorial Integrity.
Practical suggestions looking to great
er Intimacy and confidence and trust be
tween the America? to the end of a
dome-stir pence between the republic?
that will serve as a model te the uni
verse for International peace, ?ere pre
sented by Pre?.dent WII ?ion last night
in an address before the delegates to th-^
Pan-American Scientific Congress ai
Continental Memorial Hall.
If America Im to come Into her legiti
mate own, declared the Pr?sident, in a
world of peace and order, she must es
tablish the foundations of amity so that
no one will hereafter doubt them.
He declared the purpose of the l'nited
States always to maintain- the Monroe
I KH'trinc on its own responsibility and
disclosed the steps he thought all the
republics of this hemisphere ought to
take as a mews of conserving their
common in t ei *?*\ ?. ?aid promoting their
common sympathies ?nd Ideali*.
Briefly theee stepe are:
1. The absolute guaranteeing? ?>{ po
litical Independence and territorial in
tegrity of every American republic
-. An agreement to settle all outstand
ing boundary disputi"? by arbitration or
other p.micable procesa???.
Third. An agreement that all dispute?
be handled by patient investigation und
settled by arbitration.
Fourth. An agreement that nit State
shall permit a revolutionary ex,?edit.on
against the government of another State
to be outfitted within Ita boundiirir? noi
permit munition?; of war to bo exported
for such revolutionary use.
The gathering at Continental Hall
CONTI NX* CD ON TAG ? TWO.
Huge Turkish Army Suddenly
Appears on the Greek Border
Pertif Pasha with 150,000 Men Said to Be Threatening
Allies at Saloniki from the Northeast?Germans and
Bulgars to Strike from Northwest.
Spp-eui table to Th* WasliinfUHi Hrisld.
Paris. Jan. ?.-A Turkish army, esti
mated at TOO,COO men. under the German
Commander Pertef Pasha, has suddenly
appeared on the Greek frontier, says a
Saloniki dispatch to ths Paris Temps.
The dispatch adds that the report pre
vails at Saloniki that in the advance
on the allies these Turks will attack
form the northeast while the Bulgarians
and Germans will march respectively
from the north and west.
No direct information has been re
ceived that the central powers or their
allies are rontrmplating an immediate
offensive in .Macedonia, but having learn
ed some lessons of preparedness, the
British allies have hurriedly completed
the fortification of their positions around
Saloniki.
M. Markov..??. the Serbian minister of
finance, according to a dispatch from
Messina, says that his Inspection of the
situation at Saloniki, from which he has
Just returned, convinces him thet the ai
lies will soon be In a position to un*
dtrtake a dangerous offensive.
The central powers continue to press
the Greek government for an answer to
their protest against the arrest of the
German. Austrian, Bulgarian and Turk
ish consuls at Saloniki.
Unable to Prove
Torpedo Sank Ship
U. S. Dependent Upon the
Nation Guilty for Facts
About Persia.
The difficulties In the was of ? sstis- .
factory handling of the Persi? esse seem '
to be increasing Instesd of decreasing. '
Development? yesterday make It look as
If the I'nited states will be dependent
chiefly upon Austria for Information In
regsrd to the ?Inking of the British ves
sel, which resulted In the death of United
States Consul McNeely, ?nd probebly one
other American.
If Austria disclaims sll responsibility
and denies thst one of her submarines
sank the Persia It ts likely thst the
United States never will be able to prove
that the destruction of the British liner
was the work of sn undersea boat or to
fix the responsibility for the set.
American Consul Gsrrels, st Alexsn
drls, reported to the Stste Department
yesterday that the affidavits which he
had gathered from the survivors of the
Persie contain no proofs that the llnVr
was torpedoed beyond those Incorporated
In his earlier dispatches.
An official report from Ambassador
Pase at London ?aid that Rev. Omar
Salisbury, of Takoma Park. Washington.
was a passenger on the Persia and was
believed lost. If Mr. Salisbury perished
it will make two Americans who went
down on the Persia.
Ixmdon, Jan. 6.?Accnrdins to latest
estimates, 3?3 men, women and children
perished when the Peninsular and Orien
tal liner Persia ?as sunk by a submarine
in the Mediterranean. Among the vic
tims were two Am?ricains, U. S. Consul
Robert N. McNeely and Rev. Homer
R. Salisbury, of Takoma Park, Washing
ton. D. C.
Rev. Salisbury boarded the Persia at
Marseilles, but it was not definitely learn
ed until today that he was on hoard.
LULL IN BESSAR.ABIA.
Vienna ?t.-pori, l funilon of K.chl
Ing Alona the (?alirlan Frontier.
Special CaNe to The Washington HrrmM
Vienna, Jan. 6. ?Fighting on the East
ern Gallcia and Bessarabia ? fronts haa
died down, the Austrian war office an
nounced today. The following statement
was Issued:
"Kast front?Fighting in K?st Gallcia |
and on the Bci>sarabian frontler has died
down. Russian infantry has ceased its;
attacks. Artillery is only temporarily |
active.
"Italian front?Italian artillery is more]
active on the Isonzo front. Italian at- |
tacks north of Doyle were repulsed.
Austro-Hungarian troops maintain the
conquered position.
? Artillery duels are taking place in the
Buchenstein and Riva districts.
"Balkans?The troops of Gen. Koevess
are advancing north of Beraine and west
of Rosay."
Coba. Florida. !*Rvanmk, -Vusunta.
4 all-steal, elcctrb -lighted trains dally.
Atlantic Cout Lin?, 140? N. Y. ave. nw.
?Adv.
BRITISH VALOR
OF NO AVAIL
Brave Men Crushed by Turk
Hordes, Hamilton Reports
of Dardanelles.
CRITICISES WAR OFFICE FOR
NOT SENDING BIGGER ARMY
North Lancashire and Wiltshire Bat
talions Overwhelmed by ?Sheer
Force of Numbers, He Says.
Special Cable to The Wsshtafftoe HcraM.
I^ondon, Jan. ?,?"First cur men were ?
?heded by every enemy gun, then as
saulted by a hupe column consisting of 1
no less than a full division, plus three ]
battalions.
"The North Lancashire me? were sim
ply overwhelmed In their shallow
trenches by sheer weight of numbers,
While the Wiltshire*, who wert caught
out tn the open, ?ere literally almost
annihilated."
This I? but one passage from a report
by Gen. Sir Ian Hamilton, revealing
the full extent of the Hiitish tragedy at
the Dardanelles. The report was made
public tonight In the Officisi Gaiette.
Although addressed te I-ord Kitchener
by the former commander of the Darda
nelles expedition. It Is, in polite form,
the most severe arraignment of the
home conduct of the war that has yet t
been given to the puhtlc.
British Tro?n? Kar? Retraits.
The troops ?nt to storm the almost !
impregnarle Turkish positions were ut
terly Inexperienced. They had not be- ?
fore been under fire. Their commanders
siso were without experience in the kind
of warfare they were called upon to
wage.
The entire expedition was doomed
when the hume government failed to
supply promised and necessary re-en
forcements. Sir Ian Hamilton points out
Supplies for th? men ashore were un
certain. The men suffered untold agonies
because of the lack of water.
The report is dated "At the war
office, January 6" and covers the !
events between May ? and October IS. 1
the date of Gen. Hamilton's recall.
On May 10, Hamilton says, he asked ;
for two fresh divisions to enable him j
to continue the attack. On the 17th:
h? again cabled, stating that he re
quired two army corps On? d ?vision,,
wa? sent, and in June )/>rd Kitchener,
promised three regular divisions, and,
in addition, the infantry of two terri
torial divisions.
Bravery ?f New Tea landers.
Describing the capture of Table
Top, Gen. Hamilton says:
"The flanks of Table Top art so
steep that the height ?y. ves one the
impression of a nv.shroom-shsped
summit bulging over the stem, but
just as faith moves mountains, so
valor can carry them. The Turks
fought bravely. The angle of Table
Top's ascent was recognised in our
regulations as impracticable for In
fantry, but neither the Turks nor the
angles of the ascent was destined to
atop Brig. Gen. Russell, of the New
Zealanders.
"There are moments during battle
when life becomes simple. This was
one of those moments. The scarped
heights were scaled and the plateau
was carried by midnight."
ASKS BUEY TO RESIGN
Got. \4 in!?.??.. !??????..?. ? with
Prleea >??*?>?(?4???| Method?
Speda? to Th? ?Vu*\ii>?t?a Rrrejd
New York. Jan. 6.?Gov. Whitman t4>
day asked John B. Rlley to resign hia
post of superintendent of prisons
The governor states, aa hia reasons.
Riley haa taken ffp! that would tend .
to dianipt the organisation of the Mu- j
tua! Welfare league. Theae steps, ac
cording to (?ov. Whitman, comprise the
order to transfer sixty
convicts to Dsuinemora.
aix, the governor's letter to Riley saya. ;
are included some of the most prominent i
officials of the league.
Riley, who was in thia city tonight, de- |
clared he would not resign. Discussing j
tlie governor's letter, he said: "I be-|
lieve Gov. Whitman Is laboring under j
a misapprehension. I expect to and want ?
to see the governor when I return to ?
Albany tomorrow, and I believe the en
tire affair can be adjusted.
"There is no inclination on my part,
at present, to resign.
TWO BRITISH SHIPS SUNK
Mlddlrtnn and Helta Are Torpedoed
la tke NrdllrmiBni.
Marseilles, Jan. ?.?The British steam
er? Middletown and Helia have been tor- j
pedoed and sunk in the Mediterranean, ?
It vas ?nnouni-i-d here today. There was
some loss of life on the Hella.
Both vessels are reported to have been j
destroyed without any warning from the
submarine that attai-ked them.
Seventeen paasengera uf the Helia and
thirteen members of the steamer? crew I
Were rest-ued. All members of the MM-1
dleton's crew were saved.
TheSdiddlcton was a vessel of *.SM I
tons, built in 1906 and hailing from Hull
Lloyd's register does not list the Helia
State of Siege at Atheni.
Puri?. Jan. 6.?The Petit Parisien learns
from a private source that a etate of
sieie probably will be proclaimed at
Athens.
(Jalea ?avia?-? Bank. 101? (titaiau
Savings Club. Classes 5c, '?'??- .1, and 13.
?m?v.
FISCAL BOARD REPORT
REPUDIATES DISTRICTS
HALF-AND-HALF PLAN
Present Tax Rate and Assessment Methods
Upheld by Joint Select Committee?Lib
eral Treatment of Capital Is Urged.
STAND FORECASTED BY HERALD
Under Proposed System Federal Government Would Pay
Difference Between Loca! Revenues and Estim?t?
Prepared by Gsmmissroners.
as? ji'?ith P. ?aan
Repudiating the half-and-half precision of the organic ?vet of 18T8,
except as it applies to the payment of interest on the funded darbt of tmt
District, upholding as just and equitable the pr?sent tax rate aad tmtA
ods of assessment in the District, and replete with p????*? ?? i'afaPtaic???
ments of the responsibility of the Federal government for the traJTrte
nance ajid development of the National Cannai along line? of mem?o
pal grandeur, the unanimous report of the Joint Select Commrti????? on
the fiscal relation between the Federal gove-nmenl and the r*;atri?rt I
submitted to Congress ya**tauday.
The Washington Herald was the only n?rw?p?aper to forate*?
curately, not only the general tenor of the repcart?the rrrart
District document in more than thirty year??but the ?p????1 undine?
Passengers Saie
From Greek Ship
Three Hundred Voyagers on
Thessaloniki Arrive at
New York.
?Aprati tu Toe W?jliiHctaa Harald
Ne?? York. Jan. C?The Greek Ilaer
Tetris reached Quarantine toniglit Irlth
the three hundred peaaengere of t
Thessaioniki. abandoned at eta She w
dock tomorrow morning
?apt John Uoutandrta ami the fr-e?
?of tile TheesClontkt. on i>oerd the Peru
gia. wtlt?**fa r-eec-ued them, are experte*, to
get to pert on Saturday.
Before reaching quiet water the Patri?
wireleaaed ar -joo'ip* how elle tried,
to tew the fate?, Thesaatonlkl to bar-1
bar.
She came alongside the vessel Fri
day night.
House Confers with Page in London
1-ondor Jan. t,?Col. E. M. House, con
fidential envoy of 'President Wilson, ar
rived today. He breakfasted with V. 8.
Ambassador Page and afterward they (
held a conference.
of fact as well. r3e*xernt*er 18 TV
Herald informed its reade-s that
the above ??ncitjsions ha? ba-?-n
reached by the coiiimittet. and that
the report p>r*ob*bly would ba? u-van
imous.
??.?r,.? Arsela rar-. Rale
Hers? ?ass th? **<m?7laa?asss?a? aC t?s? I??
'"?*> ted that Um tnt??rsMt am Ua?
furd?al debt should be pavsd oa mmmarm
from the Trruur) of tb? tnlled
State? aasd tifi s p?r cent criaran??] t?
the reaacnue? of the Da?Mrrrt af ?Oo
lunibla and fifty paar oca?? rhaj-asad to
the amount appi ?spi fa ted for th? sa
penar? of th? IMaatrsct at LxsavasaM?
troan th? mt???' a I ol ??? ?.?ala a ?
-arm frM attar a moat a*rr<. ' arm,.
?acteratioc of ?II tare aa'ltama atea oir
curoauana-e? a? ?hoar? te exmt at Ihl?
tima? that there la no raaaaaan far aay
arbitrary rule of proportlowate con
tribution for the etxpenae of th? Dla
traart of Columbia by Um ro?aer.ua
thereof auitl by th?? peope- of th?
lnlteaj State? ?bo re??o? ouKMa the
Dlaatricl of Columbi? that th? ctarraa*
rule should be that th? ?-aaatponaaMirtr
in t?x?tlon of th?? res'dawit? of taf
PUtrlct of Columbia be a? ?aed arad
certain a? the rs*?pora?lblllty of taw
I'lvnviati ???~???e
You Will Have
Plenty of Company
?when you rake in your first copy of the new one-cent Sunday
HERALD from your front lAsoi-st-sp next Sunday morning
Here are some reports from the "outposts" in three differ?
ent directions that give some idea as to the far greats activity
right in the city proper.
*o. ?. so. x. ??. a.
Tskoma Park. D. C. Mt_ Rainier. Md Ft Myer Jieighta. Va.
Instead of K, please Add 1?? more copies Please tricremmt bit
send me KM) copies of to my Sunday or-der order, beai an lug Sun',
the Sun?*!?- HeraJd A- J Plumer. dar. for the MMtlJi
hereafter. Also in- tc be eent to Voli Ma
crease dallies by S6. non Ft Uree Hetrkta
David Feldman from ~e to It*.
Tour? tr-alr.
Joka T>unnfna
ALL THE NEWS and
More Special Features
EVERY MORNING
Less Than Half Usual Cost
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO
Daily, 1c -:- Sunday, lc
DAILY AND SUNDAY
BY CARRIER. 3QC A MONTH
SEND IN YOUR ORDER BELOW.
NAME .
ADDRESS .
