Wrtfrt"-
tv w "nnw n t "
FINANCIAL EDITION
RIGHT
EXTRA
linger
itueimt
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL.H-KO. 99
PIIITjADJELPITIA, MHDAY, JAlSTU7i.Hr 7, J10.
CorrntoiiT, 1010, r tub Pcbmo Ledo Comjist.
PBIOE OWB CENT
srWw ? - "n
q-zfick Mpjwu
FAST EXPRESS WRECKED ON THE "KATY"
MUSKOGEE. Okln., Jan. 7. The Missouri, Kansas nnd TcSne
"Texns Spccinl" Is repelled doirtiled 80 milen south of here There
nro no wires to the scone of the wreck. A special train with phy
sicians hns been limited to the scene. The train is the fastest on
tho M., K. and T. between St. I.ouls nnd Texas points,
LAFAYETTE SAFE DESPITE U-liOAT WARNINGS
NEW VOItK, Jnn. 7. I'env that thr new French liner Lafayette
would be sunk by n submarine on Iter maiden voyage to New York
was dissipated today when her captain whelesscd the local offices of
the Cainpngnie Qcucrnlc Trnnsatlautique that his ship would arrlvo
on Tuesday morning. When tho Lafayette left Bordeaux several of
her passengers had received warning messages similar to those sent
to Chnilcs Frohman nnd other iiasscugeis sailing on tho ill-fated
Lusltnnia; ,
TURKS TO INVADE EGYPT;.
ITALIAN LINER ARRIVES WITH GUNS MOUNTED ON STERN
TEUTONS RUSH TROOPS TO
BESSARABIA TO HALT FOE
fGerman Officers and Munitions to Be
Used for Raid on England's
Colonial Empire Mackensen
in Command on Styr
Germany is determined upon striking nt England by nn invnsion of her
colonial possessions. Berlin advices
Eeypt W'M e mn''0 ky Turkish nrmics
hv the Anglo-French defense of the
and munitions will be furnished for the
Apparently this plan of campaign
Balkan and eastern war zones, inc
.,i 0f assaults in Uossnrnbia have
action. Reinforcements hnvc been rushed from the Scrbo-Grcek line to
Bessarabia to halt the Muscovite activities on the Styr, Strypa and Pruth 1
Rivers and Marshal van Mnckcnscn has taken cohimnnd to stem tho Russian
... . . ..,; nunr finlirin into Hunirnrv. '
tide irom Hwciiiif, ...... ....
This diversion of large forces indicates n temporary stoppage of tho
contemplated drive through Greece to Salonica, to push tho Allies from
their base into tho Aegean. However, unconfirmed dispatches declare that
this offensive will be pressed"" by the middle of tho month, with large
Turkish and Bulgarian columns.
By CARL V. ACKEHMAN
HHKLIN, Jan. "
. I- tn. tlA
Germany w 11 send no armies ?" ""'
ueniM rniiv he eved hero.
Turkish fore... ol.lccrcd to, Homo xtcnt
;fcy Germans nnu "i'i"'"' . ";"" ,T" fni
from Hcriin, win mnuii" -
that will Invade Dgypt.. .
Discussion or 1110 agypuuii . n
trie chief Item of Interest here for sev
eral weeks, was revived today by state
ments In the English press ilcridlnR the
possibility that Germany could hold her
lines elsewhere and send troops to the
It was pointed out hero that tho
Turks now hnvc nn nrmy of moio than
1,000, men In the Held. Within a short
time they will ho well equipped. It Is
understood thnt German ofllecrs who
have lived In Egypt nnd understand tho
problems of nn Egyptian campaign will
be assigned to tho Invading nunlcs.
It Is now posslhlo for tho Germans to
tend war supplies to Constantinople and
thence to Damascus within a short time.
Within n few days a now time tnblo will
go Into effect, showing fnst trains run
ning from Herlln to Constantinople In 3D
hours. Before tho war tho trip took BO
v... ImnMitainnnla nt Mm Krrhlnil
portion of tho rond by Oermnn enplnecm
haa mado It posBlblo to reduce- the time.
'ef their positions nt tho Dardanelles Is
characterized by German mllljgrv men
only another Imllcatlon brthhap1u2
:erd policy of the Kntonto rowers In tho
intar East, It Is bcllovcd hero that thoao
forces hnvo been sent to Salonica and
.Eeypt.
n.U .!... It.... Ju .HnAMn l.nu fn. I 1, A I m n
1I1U filluuuull 111 uin:i-u i,,o aui ... .......
being lost Interest In view of the possi
,.... - .. -. .. 1.-.. fn
ouuies 01 1110 ivgypinin cimiimiKii. "
Itary critics here declare thnt despite the
Allies' extensive preparations nt Salonika
the Bulgarians can sweep them into the
lea. any lime tney want 10 cross tne ureun
iHnes arc In the Mediterranean to Inflict
cisasuoua iossch upon irnnspons carry
Ing the retreating Anclo-Kiench troope
IIUIU BUIUIUWU,
JEliTOXS RUSH FRESH TROOPS
I TO HALT HESSAKAHIA DRIVE
LONDON. Jan. 7.
: Teutonic reinforcements rushed to the
Pessarablan front appear to hnva
checked, temporarily nt lenst, tho Rus
slan drive In the enstern theatre of wnr.
Jtecent reports from Herlln sny that tho
Austro-Oerman commanders hail long
expected bucIi a move on tho part of the
fciars forces and had mado preparation
jo meet it.
Berlin. Vienna and Petrocrnd dis
patches state that the losses have been
severe In tho lighting that Is now In
progress northeast of Czernowltz . A
message from Bucharest says reports
have reached the Itumanlan capital that
the losses on both sides In tho lighting
from January 1 to Jnnuaw 5 totalec
Jnorefthan 0,000 men.
in the meantime, news of a Teutonlc-
BulKar-Turklfth Invnnlnn nf nprv la
hourly expected here. If. ns has been
Continued on I'aje l'our. Column rite
THE WEATHER
L-Thft nrpHfntPt rr.ll wnxm .i.l.h Its A-
W weather of the winter'.' failed to ma-
luaiwe in me latter respect, and as a
" v on'ru o4Ji
youngiter with his skatea over hla
I??0! r and Plubertf with their pipe-
--- i-otooKk in hid; i.ui,ii c j
ursing their grief today. It got cold
-Mvawi, since at i n. m, Monsieur Mercury
-. earner bureau was onestepplng
w perfect time with Miss Twenty-seven.
CSJa ffnr.a .l.lin 1.. rii.t-
P'.'Ver, and at 8 a, m. he was teaching
-ui niriy tne waits, Just what
jaanfipnAii n ..A .. 1
f?.? ' the strange laws' of wenther fore-
"6 m com wave was due ana Just
Wfiat nnnrA& i.j- i 1
All liaV VMtoWlav In 1. . ltfl.t.ltn lirAn. I
gf wwer than the apartment after a
--.,1.. Wi ine januor. nut it la warm-
Wi UD OJlt thorn nn4 II- ....nVw. to.. ...t
t any colder here.
!". lnce It does not Bet colder
H- . miuuiu, 11 may get comer wnen
thouldn'j. 1
VCfRKnA S'P
ILor Philadelphia and vicinity
Snow tonight; Saturday partly
K vloderaie rtheast to north
For detail see page. 8,
LOST AND FOUND
Ic"..!'' M?n,?a.y evnln. o? .or ner
Qi'lnTfr kfn.n -... ..uui "vl iiii euro.
Ei3T Piii ,Jy noU'y H'- R- H. MoiitKomery.
InEJI'wrTi'rLo P.emtr 30,. .malt
lb nhnSi V. 5r...a bk.- Vw of tii
'-'"tnur Hi. i")f uaojta & uiaaie. i.'is
ttJt1LfTi. for. 5 " of Wyomlni
it AnWiiT7' rtu, s(uck iituia terteaj .
Martwi"9.,,'ulJ,1 tQr "newl. WlllUm
V. KetnK .",. J.1 -?"" ?.. .n.a
rr rv.t.. jL? -'wiv ?. iiaanor u
r rVwitfi it : "a JV?A 9?t OWt IJO-
T Jt -'iti!ypi llg MurKst t,
Wr CfcHu4 -tit en fagt 41 wX i? L
declnre, however, that the raid on
freed from necessity of home defense
Gnllipoli Peninsula. German officers
Moslem offensive.
is dictated by the situation in the
sudden Slav drive in uuKowmn nnu
tied the German armies to continental 1
BERUN ACCEDES
TO U. S. DEMANDS
UPON LUSITANIA
Austria Has No Report on
Sinking of Persia, Pen
field Informed
NO CASE AGAINST VIENNA
Important developments foreshad
owing the settlement of ull ciuestlons
ltj dispute with Germany and Austria
took place today. Olllclals Bald they
felt certain tlfat an entire settlement
of all matters In dispute concerning
submarine warfare will bo reached.
Ambassador von Uornstorff received
word that the Gorman Foreign Ofllcu
bus mrrppil tn mpnt TTnlf.1 Stntno .1a
Pmancls its to tho wording: of tho Lusl-
tanla uBreomont.
Austria has no information that tho
P. and O. liner Persia was sunk by nn
Austrlnn submarine. Ilellcf Is growing
that this incident will not provo a bar
rier to prevent complete agreement
with Teutonic Powers.
Tho Cabinet discussed tho situation
without reaching 11 final agreement be
causo of tho lack of substantial dctnils
regarding tho loss of the Persia.
Only one survivor of tho Persia sug
gested that a submnrlno sank tho liner
nnd his affidavit Is declared by State
Department .olllclals to have no legal
weight.
WABHNGTOJJ. Jan. 7.
The German Foreign Office has acceded
to tho demnnds of the United States over
the exact wording of the agreement be
tween tho two countries which will clear
Continued an Face Tour, Column On
ITEDESCHIPRONTIAD
ATTACCARESAL0NICC0
Sette Divisioni Bulgare Marce-
ranno Contro la Base degli
Alleati sul Mare Egeo
U11 telegrnmma da Salonlcco dice che
200,000 soldatl bulgarl, nustrlacl o tedescht
sono ammassatl ora lungo II conttne set
tentrlonale della Orcein, prontl a lanclarsl
ad Invasione del terrltorlo ellenlco ed
attaccare lo dlfese degll alleati nella loro
base dl Salonlcco. 1,'lnlzln dell' offenklva
non sara' ritardato inolto, I bulgarl
avanzauo In grandl masse tra Dolrn e
Gveghell, mentre un'altra loro dlvislone o'
concentrata nella zona dl Monastlr.
Un'altra dlvlslono bulgara opera In Al
bania contro i serbl,
J.,e truppe austrlache sono sulla destra
del bulgarl nella zona dl Monastlr,
mentre quattro dlvlslonl tedesche oper
ano dletro II centro bulgaro, sulla fer
rovla dl Nlsh. Avlatorl francesl che
hanno fatto rlcognUlonl da Salonlcco
dlcono che almeno setto dlvlslonl bulgare
operano a pocho ore dal conttne della
Orecia.
r Intanto ell ulleatl hanno stablllto for
tissimo opera d Ulfesa a Halonlcco, ror
mundo un semlcerchlo ill circa 37 mlglla
dl estensione attorpo alia cltta'. Le forze
anglo-francesl che sono nelle vlclnanze
del conliife rlplegheranno su questa llnea
non appena saranno attaccate.
(Leggere In 4a paglna le ultimo e plu
dcttagllate notlzle sulla guerra la Ual
lano.) New French Loan Quoted
Above Subscription Price
New French loan, "5 per cent,
national," opens on Paris Bourse
at 89, nearly a point above sub
scription price. Demand was strong,
but holders showed no disposition
to sell. .
Minister, of Finance criticised for
methods used in floating loan .and
faults blamed on bureaucracy.
Flan of allowing banks' commis
sion on subscriptions on sliding
scale was not conducted in manner
that pleased the bankers.
New tax plans will probably b$
adopted after strong criticism in
Senate. , .
The details of financial affairs in
France, as" cabled exclusively to the
Evening Ledger by Yves Guyot,
wilt De louna on pagu i.
Hinto i Imrrnniional nun Seniro.
Here are tho guns found on the aftcrdeck of the steamship Verdi, which caused a stir on her arrival in
New York. They are said to have been manned by gunners of the Italian navy, who pra? '" d shooting at
barrels on the voyage over. Though it is contended the guns were merely for defense ugmist submarines,
their presence raises a question which the State Department is trying to settle, and they may be ordered
dismounted before tho ship is allowed to clear again.
PENROSE'S 'ASHCART
INSULT FAILS EVEN TO
'MUSS' VARE PLUMAGE
Congressman Declares Sena
tor's Slur Is Absolutely a
Closed Incident Follow
ers of 'Bill' Are Riled
GRAHAM TO GET POST
"So far ns I am concerned, the Incident
Is closed,' wns tin Rmlllng reply of Con
gressman 'William S. Varc to a question
as to how he rcgaided the purported
statement yesterday of Senntor Penrose
that "I am not going to concern myself
about an ashcart. I urn 11 statesman "
Mr. Vare, In fact, repented his answer
several times to emphasize It, never once
losing tho broad smile which adorned his
face. "It Is closed, understand me" and
ho drove tho clenched fist of his right
hnnd Into tho palm of his left "I havo
.nothlng.more to-aay."T ., - --'jfiw
Senator Kdwln H. Vnro wns equally
reticent, as was Councilman William E.
Flnley and Recorder of Deeds Ilazlett.
".My visit here has no pollUcal signifi
cance." said tho South Philadelphia Con
gressman. "The "Appropriations Commit
tee of Congress did not meet today and I
wanted to spend tho night with my fam
ily." A strenm of politicians, however, flowed
Into the Vnro offices In tho -.Inco' 1 Uulld
Ing nil day long. Tho "big boys" rofused
to make any comment. Tho "little fel
lows," however, were not so silent, and
sevcial of them openly declared that Pen
rose wns trying to bellttlo their Congress
man and Stnto Senator.
"It's Just egotism." said one. "Why. the
Congressman is Just as much of a states
man ns tho Senator Is."
Representative George S. Graham, of
Philadelphia, will be elected a member
of the National Republican Congressional
Committee from IVnnxjIvnnla, ns the re
sult of the bitter factional contest which
came to a climax yesterday, nccordlng to
dispatches from Washington. Representa
tive 13. II. Kless, supported by the Vare
Continued on I'uee Two, Column Two
"I AM GLAD MY SON
SHOT ME," SAYS MAN
Mother of Accused Youth Asks
for His Release Father
in Hospital
The mother of Ernest Bellfuss, a youth
of 18 years, who last night shot his father,
pleaded for her son's release before Mag
istrate AVrlgley today,
"My husband was wounded whllo ho
was trying to make an nttaek upon me
In his drunken rage," she said. "Now.
as he lies In tho hospital nnd may die,
my husband Is nearly crazy with remorse
and he wants his son to be freed. He
said this to me;
" 'The boy did right to snoot mo, He
did It to save you from a beating while
I was drunk.' "
The Magistrate said he would have to
hold (he boy and fixed ball at JS0O.
Young Dellfuss, who lives with his
parents-at 2731 North Howard street, to
day prayed In his cell at the Front and
Westmoreland streets police station, that
his father, whom, the police say, he
probably fatally wounded last night while
defending his motljer. would recover.
"I want father to live because I don't
want to be classed as his murderer,"
Dellfuss kept saying.
The father, Paul Bellfuss, Is in the
Episcopal Hospital with a bullet wound
In his right lung. An operation will be
performed today. Physicians say that he
may die.
The shooting occurred last night In the
Dellfuss home. According to the z'ory
told the police by members of the family,
the elder Bellfuss returned home under
the Influence of liquor. He ordered every
body to leave the house, but they refused
to go. .
Young Bellfuss was In his room when,
suddenly he heard his mother's voice.
She was calling or her boy. She wanted
him to come to her assistance. When
young Bellfuss reached the kitchen he
found his mother and sister, Minnie Bell
fuss, huddled In a corner. Nearby stood
the 'father with a chair in his hands. He
was threatening to bring the chair down
on the beads of mother and daughter
when the eon picked up a revolver from
a trunk.
"Don't you bring down that chair, be
cause if you do you'll kill my mother!"
shouted the son.
Then the man cursed the boy and
everybody in the house, it Is said, and
young Bellfuss aimed the weapon at the
father. When the chair was raised
again and the son thought his mother's
life in danger, he pulled tho trigger. The
father fell to the floor unconscious.
Youine BHfus surrendered himself to
a policeman.
LIGHT TO BLAZE
ON CITY HALL
TOWERN
Mayor Smith Approves
Evening Ledger's Plan to
Brighten Square
WORK STARTS AT ONCE
Tho lighting of City Hall on all Its sides
every night In the jenr is now ussurtd.
Mayor Smith said ho today.
Therefore, the jtlorlously llghted-up
tower of giaultu that has shouted put Its
brilliant welcome heretofore only 0I1 New
Year's Kvc will become a permanent
.thing. Uvcry night ami nil night the four
sides of It will blaze In 11 wonder of lllu-
mlnatlonstn.tho east uird-west.andjigrth,
'mnlTo-itff,f?nirsT1l1ne-m Us 'myriads or
Ullly Penn will bo enveloped In a glow
which will make him seen from nearly
ns- far away ns his dreams jiscd to take
him figuratively.
' When the suggestion tn Illuminate tho
City Ilnll 303 illKhts In the year was mado
yesterday by the HviiNina Unixinn to
the chief of the Hlcctrlcal Ilureau, James
F. McLaughlin, he fell light hi with the
plan
Ho went direct to the Mayor. When
the Mayor was asked today what ho
thought of the suggestion he said:
"I'vo already told Chief McLaughlin to
have It done."
Then he dilated a bit on tho happiness
of the thought.
"You know," he said, "that's going to
bo one of the best things In Philadelphia.
Mr. McLaughlin was right when he said
It would be a great advertisement. That,
maybo. Is where It will serve the most
good. It will mnko n bright spot of mem
ory for everybody who stops off here.
Visitors will probably think we're cele
brating nil the time." Ho smiled.
"Put seriously," he went on. "It will be
Continued tin 1'aite Two, Column l'our
CRAMPS' GET $2,000,000
ORDER FROM BOSTON
Contract Understood to Be
Most Profitable Obtained in
Last Ten Years
It wns reported In financial circles to
day that the William Cramp and Sons
Ship and Engine Building Company had
secured another order. While the amount
of the' new contract could not bo dell
nltely learned, itiwas said that It amount
ed to mote than 12.0u0.000, and that It
was the most profitable to the company
that has been secured In the last ten
years.
The order Is for ships and It Is under
stood that they will be used In the coast
wise trade. The order came from Boston
The company at the present time has
enough orders to keep busy at full tilt
for the next three yeurs. .The earnings
now taro at the rate or ubour30 per cent,
on the stock. ''
80,000 CANCEIt VICTIMS
IN U. S SCIENTISTS HEAR
WASHINGTON, Jan. 7,-EIghty thou
sand lives were sacrificed to cancer in
the United States during 1915. Frederick
L. Hoffman, insurance statistician, told
the Pan-American scientific congress to
day. In demanding more serious consid
eration by doctors and' the public of the
disease. , ,
7
GIRL SUES MAN FOR $50,000
Breach of Promise Charged by Alleged
Desertion Victjm
A J5O.0CO breach pf promise suit was
begun- today in Court of pommon Pleas
No. 3 by Mary Lavltz, 311 Lombard street,
against Jacob GUck, 131 Spruce street.
In the statement of claim filed by At
torney Morris Ollensls it is" alleged that
the defendant made the plaintiff the vic
tim of a scheme whereby the two lived
together, lie telling her that It was not
necessary to have a marriage ceremony
performed. The defendant, the state
ment says, is an alien. GUck is alleged
to have deserted her later.
Florida Democrats Indorse Wilson
JACKSONVILLE, FI.. Jan 7 -The
State Democratic Committee has In
dorsed President Wilson for re-election.
Delegates to the National Convention will
be chosen by primary
SPLIT FOLLOWS FIGHT
IN LODGE WHEN MAN
IS REFUSED ADMISSION
Many Members and Several Of
ficers of St. John's Chapter
of O. of E. S. to Start
New Branch
WILL ORGANIZE TONIGHT
St. John's Chanter of the Order of the
Rnstern Star has been toin by the force
of an Internal dissension for severnl
necks. There have been stormy meotlngs,
llorce arguments, many unpleasant w'ords
nnd finally secession by almost 100 of tie
members. Tonight these 100 mcmbciswlll
hold a meeting to foim a new chanter
I which Is to bo forever separate nnu dls
I tlnct from St. John's Chapter.
I Tho Oidor of tho Unstern Star Is an
I organization composed of members of tho
Jlnsonlc Order, their mothers, wives and
-ulBtera.-- St. John's Chnptf, .'No.' Cwus
tne llrst branch of the order established
In thli city,, having bceir founded somo
years ago. It wns one of tho strongest,
numerically, In tho city before the brenk
cmiic and had several hundred members.
Those who are forming the new tlodgc
boast thnt It will have COO members with
in a short time nnd will hne 0110 nd
vnntnge thnt St. John's did not have
recently nt least. That Is, it will havo
peace and harmony within Its midst.
The new lodge Is to be called tho Cove
nant Chapter. The prellmlnmy mletlng
will be held tonight 'n the Parkway
Ihllldlng, nnd .January 22 has been set
as the date for the Until organization.
OFFICIOUS AMONG SKCEDKItS.
Included among tho secedeis nn Mrs.
Mary IlalT, who in htr capacity as
Worthy Matron, was the head of St.
John's Chapter, and some of the prin
cipal olllcers of tho lodge. A majority of
tho olllcers of St. John's seceded.
Tho members of the order are mnklng
no secret of tho fnct that a new lodge
Is to be formed, but they are trying to
kep the cnuse i.f the split in old St.
John's Chapter quiet.
Nevertheless they do not deny that the
Continued oil Tugi Tun, Column Three
S. S. M'CLURE QUITS
FORD PEACE PARTY
Editor's Disapproval of Anti-
Preparcdness Propaganda
Believed to Be Cause
COPENHAGEN, Jnn. 7. S. S. McClure.
the New York editor, has deserted the
Ford peace party. A few hours before tho
expedition left for The Hague, via Ger
many, today, McClure disappeared. It
was. reported that ho would go direct to
Berlin.
Mr. McCluro has been out of sympathy
with u large part of the expedition slnco
tho preparedness Issue was raised. He
took a targe part In the opposition to the
anti-preparedness resolutions which Henry
Ford and other pacifists supported on
board the liner Oscar II.
The lleutenr.uts whom Mr. Ford left In
charge wher he returned to the United
States expressed satisfaction over the re
sults of their visit to Denmark. The stay
here was more successful than at Chris
tiauia and Stockholm.
Several peace leaders In Denmark eaw
the Ford travelers off today. The stait
for The Hague was made In a heavy rain.
Tho expedition is due ut the Dutch capital
Saturday morning.
Life for the Ford peace party Is Jusl
one threatened lawsuit after another.
The Bennet tourist agency today threat
ened to sue for 50,000 kroner (113,00)), al
leging the Ford lieutenants canceled res
ervations for a ship voyage to The Hague
after getting permission to travel by laud
through Germany. They presented a
'pay or be sued" ultimatum while the
Ford leaders were packing their luggage
for the trip through Germany
Rekford Holmes, discharged head of
the Ford crew of stenographers, was still
threatening suit for slander today, though
Copenhagen attorneys advised him an ac
tion was impracticable.
To add to the gaiety of the party tho
Danish newspapers are printing lurid re
ports about the Austro-Amerlcun situ
ation. Some of the pacificists are grow
ing more nervous, as the hour for the trip
through Germany approaches. They fear
trouble between America and the central
empires may break out while they aro
on German soil The Danes are full of
horrible stories about war bread interned
persons in Germany must cat.
Before leaving for The Hague the Ford
Steering Committee contributed JTT00 to
Copenhagen peace societies.
Efforts are being made to eliminate
Judge Liiidsey from a position of prom
inence as one of the peace leader. Ford
lieutenants on the Steering Committee
think the, Denver Jvlge a bit top skeptical
about the success oX the enterprise.
TIIESSALONIKI'S PASSENGERS LANDED AT NEW YORK
NHW YOUIC, .luu. ". following n voynge ns thrilling as any in the
memory "f veteran mariners, 177 passengers of tho crippled nnd nbandoncd
rireek liner Thrssulonlk! nnd two of her crew arrived hero today on tho
steamship rntrls nnd were welcomed by friends nnd relatives, whoso hopes
were nt low ebb for more than a week.
The Tliessnlonlkl'H crew, excepting tho two taken aboard tho Patrls in
the transshipment of passengers, are nboartl tho Anchor Lino freighter I'crugla,
heading for N'ew York. First reports that tho Thessalonlkl carried 300 pas
sengcrs were found to be untrue. Cuptaln Vagoras, of tho Patrls, said there
were only 177.
VON PA PEN LEAVES THE HAGUE FOR BERLIN
Till! IIACit'K, Jan. 7. Captain Kranz von Papon, recalled German military
attache to Washington, left for Herlln today after a brief visit to tho German
Legation. Several "reporters Interviewed von Papon, but drew from him only
the statement Hint the Ilrltlsb liner Persia might havo been sunk by a
boiler explosion instead of a torpedo.
$;8G,000,000 RUMORED ITALY'S FEE FOR ENTERING WAR
HKIILIN. Jan. 7. The Overseas News Agency quotes tho Swiss news
paper None Zeuerlchor Zeltving ns follows:
"Reports from u reliable source stated that a treaty hns been signed in
London by Italy "by the conditions of which Italy is to recelvo $386,000,000
for participating In the war. According to spccinl Information, another clause
Is directed against the Vatican."
I
imiTISH SUBMARINE
LONDON. Jan. 7. -Tho loss of a Urltlsh submarine In the North Sea, off
the coast of Holland, was olllclnlly announced today by the Admiralty. The
hiibtnarlne sank oIT Texel,.the largest of the Frizlan group of islands. The 33
mombeis of the submarine's crow were picked up by the Dutch cruiser Noord
llrabant and taken into the Holder.
FRENCH SENTENCE ARGENTINIAN AS SPY
PAUIS. Jan. 7. A court-martnl has sentenced to death Maria Jose del Past,
25 ycarsold, a naturalized Argentinian,
Information from Marseilles and Paris
j f ,
ITALY'S WAR BILL TOTALS MORE THAN $5G1,000,0Q0
IIOMB, Jan. 7. The sum of $441,500,000 la, according to statistics Just made
public, the expense sustained by Italy for her nrmy nd navy from Juno 1 to
November 30. Adding $120,000,000 spent In May nnd December, the total cost,
of thn war to Italy Is moro than $361,000,000, without Including the expenses of
the military preparations before the opening of hostilities.
RILEY REFUSES TO RESIGN; TO BE REMOVED
NEW YORK, Jan. 7. Superintendent of Prisons John H. Itlley, who was
asked yesterday lor his Immediate resignation because Superintendent Riley
ordered tho transfer from Sing Sing Prison to Danncmora of 66 prisoners with
out consulting tho Governor or Warden Georgo W. KIrchwey, has refused, to
leslgu. Tho Governor la expected to Insist that Superintendent Itlloy must go.
PRESIDENT PERMITS NAME TO GO ON BALLOT
INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 7. All doubt about President "Wilson's wIlllngncBS to
accept renomlnntlon, notwithstanding the ono-term plank in the Democratic
platform, was removed late yesterday, when authority camo direct from tho
White House to place the President's name on tho ballot to be voted at Indian
apolis' llrst primary election In March.
PACKERS' EXPERTS TO PRESS WAR CLAIMS
LONDON, Jan. 7. Chnndler Anderson, late counsel of tho American State
Department, and Alfred Urlon, general counsel of Armour & Co., Chicago, have
nrrived nt Falmouth on board tho Holland-America liner Rotterdam. Thoy will
try to effect settlement of the long-pending American packers' claim now before
tho British prizo court.
GERMANS DEMAND ENLISTMENT OF ALL TURKS
PAWS, Jan. 7. A Salonica dispatch to the Temps says: "The German
cverlords In Tuikoy are pressing tholr demnnd that all Turks hitherto cxhrnpt
from military servlco by paying an exemption tax be Immediately conscripted
into tho army. Tho Turkish ruUrti aro mortally afraid to take so stringent a,
measure, foreseeing a popular uprising.
CHINA GAGS ANTI-JAPANESE NEWSPAPER
PRKIN, Jan. 7. The Government has suppressed the Tsln-Choupao. a
I'ekln daily, at tho request of Ell Hlokl, Japanese Minister to China, because
tho paper published charges that Japan ,1s promoting tho revolution. President
Yuan Shih.kai Is moving all military stores from centres subject to attack, by
revolutionaries.
BRITISH AVIATORS RAID GERMAN DEPOTS
LONDON, Jan. 7. An olllcial communication Issued last hlght Bays: "In
addition to the raid on the aerodrome at Doual, another raid was carried out
yesterday by 11 of our machines against a stores depot at Le Sars. This morn
ing ono of our patrols dispersed a party of Germans Just north of tho Somrae
with hand grenades. The artillery activity on both aides today was principally
confined to tho areas east of Armentleres and southeast and northeast of Ypres,"
THIEVES STEAL Sl.OOO.OOO IN STAMPS
ST. PAUL. Minn., Jan. 7, Robbers last nlglit broke Into the internal
revenue offices in the old Federal Building, blew open the safe and escaped
with Jl.000,000 in internal revenue stumps and between $4000. and I500Q In
currency. The stamps weighed between 300 and 400 pounds and were taken
away in an automobile. The robbery was not discovered until today. " v
FRENCH SHIP OUTDISTANCES PURSUING U-BOAT
MARSEILLES, Jan. 7. The French steamship Meinam raced into Mar
seilles today after eluding a submarine which pursued her through tho Mediter
ranean. The submersible fired at least 100 shells after the fleeing steamer,
but none of them struck.
TWO FRENCH GENERALS DEAD f
PARIS, Jan. 7. The deaths of General Serret and General Rambet Wfrf
announced today. Doth had achieved fame in the war. General Serret was
wounded in the recent fighting at Hartmannswellerkopf and one of b,ls jrwfrfl
was amputated. He commanded a division
General Rambet, commander of a subdivision, was killed in an uutotja?
bile accident Thursday near Thlvlers.
FRANCE WOULD CALL YOUNGER OFFICERS TO COMMAND
PARIS, Jan. 7 Reductions in the age limits of colonels and generals t
proposed In a bill presented in the Chamber of Deputies. The. bill would redw a
the retirement age of colonels from 60 to M yws of genergls of ferlJ4 from
$3 and 60 years, and of generals of visions friw H to C2 j't
SINKS OFF DUTCH COAST
who was convicted of sending military
to German agents., .. .
w
M
ifl
VI
11
