Official
Mewapuper of
Olyiopla
VOL. LV. NO. 42
MAYOR REPORTS ON
CONDITION OF CITY
GIVES NEW COUNCIL STATEMENT
OF FINANCIAL SITUATION—
RECOMMENDATIONS.
Commenting that "the city has
made great progress during the year
1915 in the way of permanent street
improvement and ranks at this time
as the best paved third class city in
the state," Mayor Mottman submit
ted his report for the past year and
his recommendations for 1916, his
fourth term, at the meeting of the
new city council Tuesday night.
His financial statement shows an
unexpended balance of $4,621.04, ex
penses having been $73,556.15 and
revenues 181,719.81. The city has
9200,000 in bonds outstanding, and
warrants on the different funds as
follows: Current expense, $329.79;
general, $55,508.15; park, $41.31,
and library, $113.12, the interest on
this indebtedness amounting to prac
tically $6,000 more. His flgureß,
taking in other sums, show total in
debtedness of $271,166.24, less cash
and resources of $41,615.08, leaving
a net debt of $229,551.16, as com
pared with $277,643.18 on January
1, 1913, a reduction of $48,092.02.
"We hope to be able to sell the
bonds within the rules set down by
the honorable courts and to take over
the plant soon," Is the mayor's con
cluding statement with regard to the
waterworks situation, after pointing
out that the city has already ad
vanced $5,976.49 for material and
labor in laying new mains in districts
paved during the past year and
$4,500 as legal expenses, to be paid
back out of the proceeds of the bond
sale. "The plant is fast going to
ruin and wreck," he says, after stat
ing various improvements the city
should undertake immediately after
it acquires ownership, adding: "The
present company has not expended a
dollar for Improvement and upkeep
for more than a year."
Opposes Condemning Light Plant.
The mayor opposes condemnation
of the plant of the Olympia Light ft
Power company, stating: "After
carefully looking into this plant, it
appears to me that the hydro-electric
plant of the Olympia Light ft Power
company has no future because its
water resources are growing less each
year and the needs of the city grow
ing larger each year. Therefore the
ownership of the plant as a municipal
affair does not appeal to me as a
good business proposition as a per
manent investment."
The mayor recommends: That
trees be planted in parking strips on
all permanently paved streets; that
the Olympia Light ft Power company
be compelled to pave between its
tracks on all streets now paved; that
all city departments be held strictly
to their monthly budget allowances;
that no Improvements be made with
out a 60 per cent petition of the prop
erty owners, and that no paving be
done until the city acquires the
waterworks, because the present com
pany cannot buy new water mains.
To Pay 930.0(H) on Debt.
He serves warning that he will not
sign warrants for expenditures above
the 12-mill limit, urges strict econ
omy, and says that the city should be
free from debt in 10 years, pointing
out that the 8 M -mill levy required
by the new law "ought to enable the
city to pay off nearly $30,000 on Its
old debt this year."
The old city council met for the
last time Tuseday evening, winding
up Its business for the year by pass
ing several ordinances, and then the
new council took charge, C. W. May
nard succeeding J. B. Eshom and
George Draham taking Hord's place.
After hearign the mayor's report, the
new council adjourned to a star
chamber session which lasted about
two hours, when the principal topic
of discussion was the re-appointment
of J. B. Weddell as city engineer, to
which there is reported to be some
opposition. Four councllmen, how
ever, Talcott, Yauger, Ramberg and
McClintic, are said to favor Weddell
and it is likely he will be confirmed
at an adjourned meeting next Tues
day night, when the mayor will also
present his other appointments.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Leonard have
returned to their home in Wrangell,
vlaeka, after visiting Mrs. Leonard's
sister, Mrs. S. A. Laßarre.
WASHINGTON STANDARD
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860.
Three Federal Judges Refuse Injunc
tion Against Prohibition Law.
Constitutionality of the state-wide
prohibition law, as it applies to inter
state commerce and the rights of citi
zens, was fought out before Federal
Judges Cushman, Gilbert and Rud
kin in the district court at Tacoma
Thursday. It ended in another vic
tory for the "drys."
The hearing was on the application
of the Seattle Brewing & Malting
Co., filed last Friday before the law
became effective, for a temporary in
junction againßt Attorney General
Tanner, to prevent his enforcing the
law in stopping the manufacture of
beer and requiring the exportation or
destruction by January 11 of more
than 160,000 worth of beer now in
the Seattle brewery. The injunction
was denied.
The petition also asked that the
injunction be made permanent, and
that the prohibition law and the state
initiative and referendum constitu
tional amendment be declared null
and void. Now that an injunction was
refused, it is said appeal will be
taken directly to the United States
supreme court.
Meanwhile the "wets" have filed
with the state supreme court a peti
tion asking for a re-hearing of the
case in which that tribunal recently
gave a unanimous decision upholding
the "dry" law.
RECEIVER OF LOCAL
BANK MAY APPEAL
OBJECTS TO COURT DECISION
DENYING RECOVERY ON HAYS'
NOTE FOR 980,550.
Appeal probably will be taken by
Frank P. McKinney, assistant cashier
of the Olympia National bank and re
ceiver of the defunct Olympia Bank ft
Trust company, from the decision of
the United States district court in
Tacoma the latter part of last week
by which the court refused to give
the receiver of the local institution
credit for the $36,560 note deposited
in the United State National bank of
Centralia by W. Dean Hays, organ
iser of the Olympia Bank ft Trust
company.
The failure of the Centralia bank
caused the failure of the local insti
tution less than a month after it
opened for business. Receiver Mc-
Kinney, through his attorney, P. M.
Troy of Troy ft Sturdevant, sued A.
R. Titlow, receiver of the United
States National, to recover moneys
which Titlow had refused to allow.
These consisted of three Items, $lO,-
000 which McKlnney claimed was re
mitted by the Olympia bank, upon
the order of the Centralia bank, to
the Tenlno State bank, which also
failed at the same time: $9,500 for
money the Centralia bank claimed to
have advanced on notes known as
the Blumauer notes, and $36,550 for
money that was charged against the
Olympia bank by the United States
National for the alleged payment of
the Hays' notes, a transaction which
Receiver McKlnney claimed was
equivalent to the payment of Hays'
personal notes by the bank.
As the result of the suit the Olym
pia bank gained the second Item.
$9,500, and was authorized bv the
court to recover the first, SIO,OOO,
from the Tenlno bank, which was a
party to the suit, but was defeated as
to the third item, $36,550. In addi
tion the court found that the Cen
tralia bank owed the local one ap
proximately $26,000 instead of $16,-
000 as it had contended, and also
gave the local bank the notes of its
stockholders other than Hays,
amounting to $11,450, which had
been deposited with the United States
National when the Olympia Bank &
Trust company was organized. These
are thought to be largely good and.
with the sums allowed by the court,
will make a substantial recovery by
Receiver McKinney.
If appeal from the decision is not
taken, Receiver McKinney expects to
repay 50 per cent to depositors of the
Olympia Bank & Trust company,
after levying an assessment on the
stockholders, and will pay more, if
the Centralia and Tenlno banks pay
"WETS" LOSE AGAIN
ltpNUlt Of Suit.
Continued on Page Five
"Hew to the Line, Let the Chips Fall Where they May."
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1916.
SEATTLE TO BUILD SHIPS.
Big Corporation, to Be Capitalized in
Millions, IN Being Formed.
Organization of a new Seattle ship
building corporation capitalized in
the millions is under way, and if
present plans carry a great industry
equipped for the building of over
ocean steamers and semi-Diesel pow
ered coastwise lumber carriers will
be established on Harbor island, the
Post-Intelligencer says.
The new shipbuilding yards, which
will rival the plant of the Seattle
Construction & Dry Dock company in
importance, will be financed by Seat
tle men, particularly those identified
with the Port Blakeley Mill company.
G. N. Skinner, president of the
Puget Sound Naval Station Route and
sales agent of the Port Blakeley Mill
company, and other men prominent
in the business affairs of the Pacific
Northwest were mentioned by ship
ping men discussing the project, as
the leading organizers of the com
pany.
COMMISSIONERS ABOLISH HUM EXPERT SYSTEM.
IGNORE RECENT INDORSEMENTS AND REFUSE APPRO
PRIATION—PERSONAL HOSTILITY TO VAN HOUTEN
CREDITED AS BASIS OF ACTION —BOARD ROASTED BY
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.
Ignoring the indorsement of the Thurston County Pomona
Grange and every subordinate Grange in the county but one, as well
as the indorsements of the Olympia Chamber of Commerce, the
Tenino Commercial club, the Grand Mound Farmers' club, -and
various other organizations, and accepting the personal charges
made by a few admitted enemies of the present official, the county
commissioners Monday afternoon unanimously abolished the office
of farm expert in this county that was held during 1915 by 0. C. Van
Houten. Personal hostility to Van Houten is generally taken to be
the basis of the commissioners' action.
Commissioners Dodge and Row« carried the board's action,
Chairman Littlejohn acquiescing when he SAW it impossible to get an
appropriation large enough to permit of the employment of a man
as good or better than Van Houten. "I would be willing to have as
good or better man than Van Houten on the job," Littlejohn said,
"but I would not stand for having a boy just out of college come and
take up the work."
"There has been so much talk about Van Houten that we
thought he ought to go," Dodge was quoted as saying. "The county
agent is like a school teacher. If he is disliked, it impairs his use
fulness."
Chairman Littlejohn proposed that the question be submitted to
the voters of the county at the election next November, but again
Dodge objected, saying: "I don't favor putting the matter up to
the people, because I believe it would be snowed under 3to 1. The
county agriculturist never did me any good, anyway," he is reported
to have added. "There was such a fuss over it we couldn't do any
thing else."
Letter From Chamber of Commerce.
The commissioners' action fol
lowed the reading of a scorching let
ter from the Chamber of Commerce,
criticizing their dilatory tactics and
condemning "the despicable under-
hand manner in which the efforts to
discredit the present county agent
have been carried on." "You must
decide whether Thurston county is to
go forward with the development of
her agricultural resources, abreast of
other progressive units of the state
of Washington," the letter said in
conclusion, "or is to be ruled by mal
ice, cowardly hatred and despicable
petty politics, and the sooner the
issue is settled, the better."
A month ago, after a conference
between Commissioners Littlejohn
and Dodge and Ira D. Cardiff, direct
or of the Pullman experiment station,
it was informally announced that
Dodge had agreed to an appropria
tion of $1,200 and that Littlejohn
would favor this on the understand
ing that sufficient more was raised by
popular subscription to insure the
employment of a competent, expe
rienced man and not some one just
out of college. Acting on this under
standing, a committe of farmers, con
sisting of Charles Wilson of Lacey,
L. L. Snow, master of the Thurston
County Pomona Grange; G. E-
Stearns of South Bay, and L. It.
Campbell of South ITnion, undertook
the raising of the additional sum
needed and succeeded.
Lose Smith-Lever IteneAts.
Resides losing the services of an
agriculturist, Thurston county also
loses from S9OO to $1,200 a year
which the federal and state govern
ments, under the Smith-Lever bill,
would have spent here to stimulate
agricultural progress.
The letter from the Chamber of
Commerce, the last shot fired by that
organization to retain a farm expert
here next year, is as follows:
TWO FARMERS' MEETINGS.
Dairy Association and Potato Club to
Hold Sessions Here Saturday.
Various details of the cow-testing
association recently formed will be
discussed at a meethig of the Thurs-
ton County Dairymen's association at
the Chamber of Commerce at 11
o'clock Saturday morning, called by
L. R. Campbell, president of the
Dairymen's organization, who urges
every dairy farmer in the county to
be present. As this is the first meet
ing of the new year, officers may also
be elected.
In addition to this meeting Satur
day morning, another farmers' meet
ing is to be held at the Chamber of
Commerce in the afternoon, when the
special committee of the Thurston
County Potato club is to submit to
the membership and other interested
farmers its plan of organization.
Other features of the Potato club's
work will also be discussed.
"On the afternoon of December 30
a special meeting of the board of
trustees of the Olympia Chamber of
Commerce was called for the purpose
of discussing the status of affairs as
concerning the office of county agent
for Thurston county for the year
1916.
"While the Olympia Chamber of
Commerce has greatly deplored the
petty quarreling over this matter
which the county commissioners have
countenanced, we have endeavored to
remain silent, feeling that the county
commissioners themselves would
finally be able to discern the fact
that the fight being made on the
office was confined to comparatively
few individuals with personal objects
in view and that the campaign
against the office, in reality is not
against the office, but is entirely per
sonal with the county agent now in
the field on the part of two or three
men only. This conclusion on our
part has ben verified by recent state
ments by those who have been lead
ing the opposition that SI,BOO is not
too much to pay an agent, but that
the present agent is not the right
man.
"Up to this time we have merely
petitioned the commissioners to re
tain the service for 1916, as we know
beyond doubt that it is of merit. The
only other activity the Chamber has
assumed was in compliance with the
suggestion from the county commis
sioners that we have interested farm
ers call upon the commissioners and
state why the services should be re
tained for 1916.
"Made a Football."
"We feel justified in taking this up
with you at this time for dilatory
tactics on the part of your board has
resulted in the time having elapsed
in which an appropriation should
have been made and we do not be
lieve a matter of so grave importance
Continued on Page Five.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
TO NAME SUPERVISOR
Re-Arrangement of Road Districts of
County Will Then Be Effective.
Appointment of a road supervisor
is the only thing that remains to be
done to make effective the re
arangement of the road districts of
the county by the commissioners, by
which one new district was created
out of the old Nos. 3, 4 and 5, and it
is likely that this appointment will be
made next Monday.
Members of the good roads' asso
ciation of the new district, No. 6,
were holding an election Thursday
with three candidates, A. G. West,
who has had charge of that territory
this year under Supervisor George
Sumption, and Messrs. Thompson and
Trosper. The new district runs south
from Tumwater along the Des Chutes
river to the standard parallel, a short
distance beyond Offut lake, then west
nearly to Little Rock, and north to
a point a few miles north and west
of Black Lake.
Appointment of supervisors in the
other five districts will be made as
their terms expire, the latter part of
this month, and the first of next. Ap
pointments are to be made four
names submitted by the good roads'
association of the district, but the
association has no standing unless
owners of 75 per cent of the prop
erty in the district are members, ac
cording to the new law adopted by
the last legislature.
BIG FOREIGN ORDER
BOOMS LUMBER TRADE
CONFIRMS MILLMEN'B BELIEF OF
GOOD BUSINESS THIS SPRING
—RAILROADS BUYING.
An inquiry for 200,000,000 feat of
Douglas flr lumber from the French
government, and which it is expected
will be placed with the mills of the
Pacific Northwest, a heavy order for
car equipment from the Union Pa
cific railway and large purchases of
railway material by a number of the
transcontinental systems, have given
a tremendous impetus to the lumber
trade of the Northwest during the
past few days. These heavy orders
and inquiries for large amounts of
lumber bear out the predictions of
the lumbermen who anticipated a
great revival in the Industry during
the coming year.
The French inquiry has come as a
surprise to lumbermen and the order
is so large that if it is placed in the
Northwest it will probably be handled
by a combination of the leading man
ufacturers. The inquiry is largely
for timbers and railway material. If
secured, it will be the largest export
order placed in the Northwest for
some time.
France to Furnish Ships.
One of the features in connection
with this inquiry, and which shows
the need abroad for American lum
ber, is that the French government
will supply the ships necessary to
transport the material abroad if the
order is placed in the Northwest. This
is an unusual departure and indicates
that further orders from foreign gov
ernments are to be expected.
In order to handle the inquiry sat
sifactorily the leading mills of the
Northwest are expected to get to
gether and work on the proposition
jointly. If the order is placed it will
mean that it will keep the mills Be-
curing the contract busy for six
months as the delivery is to be made
In regular shipments from January
to June.
In the meantime railroad pur
chases are increasing rapidly. It was
officially announced last week that
the Union Pacific system was in the
market for a large amount of car
material, including 1500 box cars and
500 stock cars. This announcement
was made at the Tacoma offices of the
iOregon-Washington Railroad & Navi
gation company which received In
structions to inform the Tacoma lum
ber mills of the company's needs.
I The order for these cars will prob
ably be placed with a number of the
imills in the Pacific Northwest.
Other Railroads Buying
Other railroads are also buying
heavily. The Union Pacific's car
order follows closely a purchase of
1,000,000 ties by the same road anil
Continued on Page Eight.
WHOLE NUMBER 2886
EVERYTHING
FOR CELEBRATION
OLYMPIA TO BK HOST AT OFFI
CIAL OPENING OF NEW U. P.
LINE, JANUARY 14.
With high officials of the Union
Pacific and Northern Pacific rail-
roads, representatives of various com
mercial clubs of this state and Ore
gon, and visitors from different cities
as its guests for the day, Olympia
will formally celebrate next Friday,
January 14, the opening of the Union
Pacific's new line into the city, oyer
which the first trains were run New
Year's day.
Special rates have been granted by
the railroads for visiting delegations,
and one feature of the celebration
will be staged by the Union Pacific
itself, at the new depot, which will
be completed at that time. Under
the auspices of the Chamber of Com
merce a big meeting is to be held at
its headquarters at 3:15 in the after
noon, at which Attorney Thomas M.
Vance will preside and representa
tives of the railroads and commercial
clubs will be called upon for short
talks.
First Train on New Tear's.
Quite a number of Olympians par*
ticipated in an informal celebration
on the occasion of the operation of
the first train over the new line New
Tear's morning. After Dr. P. H.
Carlyon, who had been chiefly instru
mental in bringing the new line into
the city, had made a short talk and
christened the first train "0.-W. K.
A N. Booster Train No. 1" by break
ing a bottle of champagne on the lo
comotive pilot, the crowd boarded
the train and rode out to the Cham
bers' Prairie station, where the new
line Joins the Pt. Defiance cut-off,
and there greeted a number of 0.-W.
officials.
Preceding the departure of the
train, at 11:25 Saturday morning, ex
actly 25 years to the day from the
time the 11 rat Northern Pacific train
reached Olympia from Taooma, Dr.
Carlyon made a short talk and named
every employe of the Union Pacific
system a member of the Chamber of
Commerce, directing them "to boost
for the industrial development of
Olympia."
C. A. Marshall, the local grocery*
man, bought the first ticket on the
new line. The run to Chambers'
Prairie orcupied 25 minutes, and
there the local party met the follow
ing 0.-W. officials: William
ray, general passenger agent; J. L.
Myle, city passenger agent at Port
land; A. C. Jackson, advertising man
ager; J. Murray, acting chief engi
neer. and S. C. Martin, engineer of
construction. The special committee
from the Chamber of Commerce
whlcjj greeted these officials was
composed of Dr. Carlyon, and Messrs.
C. H. Springer, C. A. Marshall, Hugh
Ross, George H. Punk, Fred W.
Stocking and Secretary H. L.
Whiting. Besides these, there were
some 25 other local people in the
party.
Extension Is Expected.
The new line has been completed
at a cost of $500,000 and itß opera
tion has given further rise to the re
ports current some two weeks ago
that it will not be long before it will
be extended to a connection with the
Peninsular railway about 11 miles
west of Shelton, giving the Union
Pacific an entrance to both sides of
the Olympic peninsula. These rumors
have been strengthened by unofficial
information that Mark Reed of Shel
ton, builder of the Peninsular rail
way, when aßked a short time ago
about the prospects for such an ex
tension. replied, "I'll know in about
a month." Reed is in the East now,
presumably consulting railroad offi
cials relative to the acquisition of his
railroad, and local people in touch
with the situation will not be sur
prised to hear an official announce
ment to the effect that the Union Pa
! ciflc has bought the Peninsular rail
way.
Sleighing parties have been all the
rage among Olympia's younger
people this week.
County Superintendent O. C. Gosa
this week appointed William Lohrer
a director of the South Bay school to
succeed H. A. Allen, who recently
moved out of the district.
Published
Continuously
For 5.1 Years
