HMMBBBBHBMBHPPBMBPBWH-B ' """JU "VbbHH
BBBJR'R ,ii.ptl" j-- .-,, VBJBBHHBRIQaBH
b b3
B ' HB
h
BBBB 1BI
-'
" f
? ; B
I Iron County Record. a
WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." ' H
H HI
H .--. 'BH
H VOLUiME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, JAN. 7, 1910. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 4. '"'lfl
BM1 H
COMMISSIONERS IN
I "' MONW SESSION
H County Ronds and Equitable As-
H scssmcnt Command the
H Attention of Board.
H SOME COMMUNICATIONS
GIVEN CONSIDERATION
H Regular Budget of Claims Allowed,
H nnd Other Business Attended
H to By the Officials.
m The County Commissioners of Iron
B County met in regular session at the
m County Court House, Parowan, last
H monday, all commissioners, the county
B crcrk and county attorney being in
m attendance.
M Minutes of the previous meeting
BB were read and approved.
BB There appearing to have been some
BB misapprehension in rotation to the
BB designation of a portion of the road
BB at the mouth of Coal Creek canyon,
BB cast of Cedar City as county road, it
BB being tho impression of somo that
BB, it was merely a private road to the
BB Co-op. grist mill, Commissioner Evans
BB made inquiry into the status of the
BB matter and requested The Record to
Bfl make clear tho fact that it was in
' reality only a change in the county
M road leading into the Cedar Canyon
BB and on to Garfield and Knno counties.
BB Communications were next taken
A UP and considered. Ono from A. E.
BB Markwith, asking for a change of the
BB. road leading to Beryl onto section
BH lines was read and referred to Co.
t Commissioner Knell for attention at
B his earliest convenience.
B-. Tho following communication was
K I readjrom tho Stato Engineer, in ro-
K County Commissioners if Iron County,
K& Parowan, Utah, Gentlemen: On Dec
H 21 the State Road Commission desig-
B' nated the road from Lund to Parowan
H as a state road.
1- "The designation of the road from
H Beryl to Enterprise was deferred, as
H there was somo question in the minds
H, of the commissioners whether the road
H fiom Enterprise to St. George should
V bo designated when the Iron county
H designation was made, and therefore
BBl C I allowed it to be tabled until a future
BBB , meeting, but I will take this matter
BBl up in the near future and get it set-
BH ,, n
BBB "Work will be started on the Far-
BB owan-Lund road as"soon as weather
BBB' conditions will permit.
BBB" "Yours truly,
BBB "W. D. BEERS, Commissioner."
B Hon. Wilford Day, representing the
B field land owners of Parowan, and a
B committee of three representing the
H, property owners of Parowan City, ap-
BV ' pearcd before the board in relation to
H f the question of assessment of prop-
B erty under the new state law. It ap-
B .. pcared that a mass mcctng had been
fl held in Parowan at tho request of
H Commissioner Evans, at which mat-
K ters pertaining to taxation had been
Bp. discussed and committees appointed to
V confer with the commissioners in re-
B , lation to the matter. It was the un-
H, derstanding of Com. Evans that sim-
Hf ilar meetings were being held in the
V southern portion of the county, but
H when it was learned that no meetings
H had yet been held it was unanimously
B decided to not go into tho matter at
H this time, but to call meetings of the
K people of the county, which would be
K attended by representatives of the
Hr board, the county nsscssor, attorney
HL and others interested in tho adminis-
B tration of tho revenue laws, and dis-
E cuss the provisions of the new law
Bj with the taxpayers. A schedule of
R meetings was arranged for the pres-
B week.
Hj A communication was read from
Hj William Lund of Modena in relation
B to the road from Modena to Enter-
HBBv nriRp. but action was deferred on the
BpJ matter until a future meeting.
H A communication was also received
H from William Grimshaw of Enoch in
I VJfii rclation to certain rights of way for
Hj t "jl the proposed new road at that place,
B Commissioner Lunt reported the visit
HL of tho commissionors and road super-
B visor to Enoch a month previously to
B look up the most feasible route for a
B road from Enoch to the western por-
1 tion of the valley, and described the
B conditions as they existed there, and
B asked the road commissioner, Mr. J.
Bi M. Hcndrickson, to make his rccom-
B mendations in relation to the locntion
H of tho road, which hs did. The rcc-
B ommendation of tho commissioner,
B which was approved by the board, was
BBfllx
bbbI'
bbbI s
B -
that two roads be designated and op-
ened to travel, ono half a mile north
and the other half a mile south of tho
Matheson Blathers homesteads. It
was a condition of snid designation
that tho roads should be opened and
put in condition for travel at no ex
panse to the county. Said roads are
to bo four rods wide, and tho present
road is not to be fenced up or inter
fered with until the new ronds arc in
good condition for travel.
The returns of the fence election held
at New Castle were canvassed, show
ing 10 votes for and G votes against
such fence law. The election was de
clared to huvc carried in the affirma
tive and the county attorney was in
structed to draft an ordinance pre
scribing what should constitute a law
ful fence.
Chairman Lunt of the Board made
a brief explanation of the proceedings
of tho meeting held, in Cedar City with
the applicants for participation in the
mother's pension fund, but action in
the matter was deferred until tho next
meeting.
Complaints hawing been made to
tho commissioners that a pool hall
was being conducted in Paragonah
without license from tho county, the
attorney was instructed to investigate
tho matter nnd report to the board nt
its next meeting.
Chairman Lunt asked tho feelings of
tho other members of the board in
relation to maintaining a membership
in the Utah Chamber of Commerce,
and they instructed Mr. Lunt to pro
ceed with the matter and assist with
tho completion of tho organization
of that body, and see tho matter
through according to the program al
ready outlined to the board.
CLAIMS.
The following claims were present
ed, allowed and ordered paid:
Iron Countty Record, publishing
the delinquent tax list, etc., $103.9?
County Clerk, stamped onv's.. 21.G2
County Assessor, expanses . . . 31.30
County Attorney, expenses . . . 7.C0
Commissioner Knell Mtrav. exp-10.00
Arrow Press, platts for asses'r 97.20
Bee Inspector, expenses 14.05
R. II. Palmer, et al, road exp.. . 34.7)
Hyrum Dalley, health officer.. 8 00
County Recorder, expenses . . . 1.52
County Clerk, expenses J2.-12
Jnnet Rollo, et al, recorder's of. 9.75
H. M. Hendrickson, road cxp.. 10.00
N. S. Whitney, janitor expense,
wood, etc 10.05
Parowan City, burial of indg's 11.00
A. N. Leonard, health officer. . 23.G0
Cathrine Richards, treas. office 12.0P
Com. Lunt, expense, Salt Lnks
trip and nttetnding meetings 28.15
It was moved by Com. Evans and
duly carried that Mrs. Mablo Macfar
lane be placed on tho mother's pen
sion list with an allowance of $12 per
month, until tho general revision of
tho mother's list at the next meeting
of the board.
Meeting adjourned.
LIBRARY NOTES.
Christmas gifts to tho public li
brary for 1915, ware:
The Second Violin, given by Laur
etta Perry; Indian Stories, given by
Milo Corry; School Management and
Educational Theories, Mrs. Lulu R
Corry; $1.50 by putty not wishing to
be named.
Tho Library Board extends hearty
appreciation to the above donors.
Now books added by purchase dur
ing tho latter part of December, are:
Fortunes of Oliver Horn, Graustark,
Peter Paragon, Janice Meredith, Dear
Enomy, Mother Goose Rhymes, Mi
chael O'Halloran, Rupert of Hcntzan.
Honey Moon, Count of Monte Cristo,
Battlo of tho Strong, Three Musket
eers, Nameless Noblemen, Fair Mar
garet, Cavanaugh Forest Ranger, The
White Sister, Blazed Trail Stories,
Saracinesca, A Far Country, Belginn
Cook Book, Twice Told Tales, How
tho World is Housed, Pollyannn Grows
Up, Modern Carpentry, Phoebe and
Ernest, Men nnd Things, Red Rock,
Women and Things, The Blazed Trail.
Life of Ellen II. Rickards, Rich Mrs.
Burgoyne, Peg Woffincrton, the Silent
Places, Alaska Days With John Mtiir,
Tho Old Home House, Social Eti
quette, The Red City, Interior Deco
ration, Miss Philwra's Wedding Gown,
Queecny, American Masters of Paint
ing, The Barbizon Painters, Modern
Painting,
Tho M. I. A. Stake Presidency are
asking for reports of the M. I. A.
reading course. So fnr the girls of
tho Cedar City wards have scored 230
poinds toward winning tho pennant on
res-Jrw'g tho required books from the
yvK&l library. Many have some or
u 'of tho books in their homes, who
have not reported as yet. None of
tho young men have enquired for any
of the books in the course at the li
brary, so we are presuming they nro
ulso owners of tho books and will
matorittlly increase tho scoie
LIBRARIAN.
J. David Leigh, the enterprising
merchant of Lund, has rccontly mailed
a handsome calendar and his greet
ings for the season to a largo number
of his patrons throughout southern
Utah, accompanied by clever adver
tising matter.
Ye Olde Towne Quartette
BBBBBBBBr, f BBBBBBH &2u3BflM9lrBK? &3&VBB9aBBflVi
BBBBBllllvvM i9SaBBBBBBBBVTSBH n& y im ffiSJM'Wmljjfir' BMJwire jWBmWBBBBH
r ivwSBSpVJp7Mr8flEBBBBvBBra wBhKmt ffirSa aSJg JBlBBbBBBBBBBBBC-.-''
yL j?ifBMBjt'MBmlPr7 3tifc BBBg' "ffiSBSWBIIBBHBWBBBBBBff?
w' n07i ws9BBBBBbb flBBBBBBB9Slfecir2'"Jv(.9RBfl
js i&&S&usflBBBBBBBB pJWBBHttfcUBBiSC vyTaS-Wvv
wrU oidc Towne Quartette," ns its nnmo Implies, sings many selections
of the old time, reminiscent class, but Hie better grade of music la
W not overlooked. Each member of tho company lins boon thoroughly
trained, and tholr voices possess exceptional blending quality and
sullk'Ient volume to mnke their ensemble minibern most effective. Their solo
work is fnr nbovo that of most male quartets. Thoy offer oilglnnl character
sketches nnd Impersonations that give variety and humor to the program that
in no way detract from the dignity of the vutertniiimcut.
It Is a pleasure to commend the company un reservedly. The slngeis are:
J. E. Hutchinson, lyric tenor; W. A. Greene, tenor; J. V. Kanntzar, baritone,
and Italph Stolz, basso.
BRANCH A. C. NOTES.
Once again the students and fac
ulty are back in their places and are
wishing each other a happy New
Year. All are refreshed after tho va
cation and are ready to take up their
work with now vicor nnddetcrmlnav
Tho third number of tho Lyceum
course will be given in the auditorium
Saturday night. Much hns been said
in praise of this number and it is ex
pected that it will bo exceptionally
good.
The first chapel exercises of tho
new year were devoted to the reading
of resolutions. John Hamilton read a
few good ones for some of the stu
dents and members of the faculty
Tholma Peny gave some resolutions
for the girls of the school, which no
doubt will be helpful during the leap
year.
One of tho three Farmers' and
Housekeepers' conventions to be held
in tho state of Utah this year, will bo
conducted at tho B. A. C. next month,
commencing on the ninth nnd will
keep up for two weeks. The local
clubs are busy sending out invitations
to friends, urcinir them to attend the
convention, which, Mr. Homer says,
will be tho best that has ever been
held here. Among the special attrac
tions for women are several lectures
by Mrs. Nellie K. Jones.
Coach Christenscn is wearing a sad.
lonely expression since he came back
to school. He expected that he would
bring Mrs. Christenscn with him, but
tho weather interfered with his plans
and so he is leading a lonely life, pa
tiently waiting for the spring to
come, when the ronds will be in con
dition for traveling.
a
Since tho Winter course began, it
has been found necessary to enlarge
the force of instructors. Mr. Sharp,
who taught here the preceding two
years, is assisting in the Animal Hus
bandry department, and Mrs. Wrigley
has taken charge of the Winter course
English department. Miss Knowles
is instructing the girls gymnasium,
and is also dancing instructor.
Dora Uric, tho D. D. president, is
ill with la grippe, which threatens
to turn into pneumonia.
Ray Lyman nnd Blanch Dnlton wero
visitors nt the school this week. They
are former students and wero gladly
welcomed by their associates.
m
Several arrests havo been mudo
since the holidays and the cases will
be brought into court next week. One
of the arrests was for card playing
and gambling. If tho defendants aro
found guilty tho punishment will bo
severe.
ft
Somo of the. instructors who do not
resido here, spent their Christmas
vacation nt their homc3. Mr. Lunt
nnd Mr. Parry spent a week in Cir
cleville. It is not difficult to imair
ino why Mr. Lunt chose that placo for
his vacation, but with Mr. Parry it is
different, nnd many are the conjec
tures as to who he went to see. Prob
ably, however, they are all wrong.
Remember the Olde Towne Quar
tette at tho B. A. C. auditorium to
morrow evening. This promises to
1)0 an exceptionally strong number.
Tickets (if they aro not all taken)
on sale at tho Mercantile Store.
BOOSTS SOUTHERN UTAH
DRY FAM RESOURCES.
Dr. J. A. Widtsoe Sees Big Future for
Land Now Used Only for
I, ,.! ?iTnr"'IJ"rr"i"" -r-
(S. L. Herald-Republican.)
Southern Utah is devoting to cattle
ranges tho best dry farming land in
tho west, in tho opinion of Dr. John A.
Widtsoe, president of tho Utali Agri
cultural College, who was in Salt Lake
yesterday. He says that tho land in
the southern part of tho stato will pro
duce more to the aero under dry farm
ing conditions than any other part of
the United States, and predicts a time
when that region will leud in produc
tion of staple vegetables. In Wash
ington, Kane, Garfield and snn Juan
counties are millions of acres not cul
tivated. Dr. Widtsoo says that the
best specimen of potatoes he has seen
in Utah were raised on dry farms in
Garfield county.
"The range country in tho south is
tho best dry farming section of the
state," said Dr. Widtsoe. "For that
statement I expect to hear the cattle
men and the sheepmen coming after
me. I found that in Garfield county
the best potatoes are being raised nnd
they are so good as to quality and
size that it paid the farmers to buy an
auto truck to carry them to tho rail
road. Rains aro frequent, and irriga
tion is not needed so much as in the
north. Some day the millions of ncrc3
down thoro will bo tapped by a rail
road and tho United States will see
tho development of tho best farming
lnnd in the country. If the pcoplo of
the state only knew its resources they
would know thnt Utah cannot be
stopped in growth of population or of
business."
POPULARITY OF THE
LITTLE FORD CAR.
Its Presence in AH Parts of the World
Means Something for the
Cnr's Performance.
There must bo practical value of
the most reliable sort in tho Ford car,
or it would not bo selling nt a ratio
of almost two to one over all other
motor cars combined. You find the
Ford car on tho streets of every vil
lage, town, and city, and on every
rond throughout the country, because
it has proven a real necessity in tho
life of all the people. This could not
be so if tho Ford enr was not easy
to understand and operato; if it was
not easy to take caio of and safe to
drive. If it did not amply meet all
i requirements without regard to price
or size; if it did not cost less to run
nnd less to maintain thun any other
car; and if thero were not Ford agents
all over the country ready at a mo
ments notice to give satisfactory,
courteous service to Ford owners,
night and day. These established ad
vantages, coupled with the low price,
make the Ford "The Universal Car."
FOR SALE. -A now Ford car at a
substantial reduction in price. Seo S.
A. Ilnltcrman, Parowan, or J. A.
, Kopp, Cedar City. Car may bo seen
. at the Kopp garage, in Cedar City,
Adv. tf.
FARMERS' ROUND
UP FEB, 9 TO 19
!u
Preparations Under Way for the
Big Annual Event at the
Branch A. C.
ONE OF THREE IN STATE
FOR THE CURRENT YEAR
Southern Utah Fortunntc in Securing
One Out of So Few Our Good
Record for Attendance.
About the most important event in
anticipation for Cedar City and also
for southern Utah, during the next
few months is the Farmers' Round-Up
nnd Housekeepers' Conference, which
will open nt tho Branch Agricultural
Colltgc February 0, and will continue
up to and including tho 19th.
It is stated that this will bo one of
only three Rpund-Ups to be hold in
the stato the present year, so that
southern Utah is particularly fortu
nate in gcttlnng ono of them.
Only meagre information is obtain
able as yet in relation to tho program
and the personnel of the lecturers to
appear here, but wo aro assured that
the session this year will bo at least
on a par with any that havo been
held here in tho pnst, and probably
very much superior to them.
Southern Utah holds the record up
to tho present time for attennnce at
the Farmers' Round-Ups, and they
should soe to it thnt thoy are not one
whit bohind their performance of pre
vious years on this occasion.
The vnluo of tho instructions re
ccived nt theso conventions can hardly
be ovtriestlmated. Much of the im
provement, anduadvnncoment that has
taken place in recent years in tho mat
ter of agricultural pursuits and the
management of livestock has its di
rect origin in tht round-ups that
have been held in previous years at
the B. A. C.
Tho time is past in this country
for slip-shod methods of farming nnd
the raising of livestock. These pur
suits are now on tho same plane with
the professions and sciences, and the
man who would succeed must keep
up with the timc3 and absorb tho very
latest and best ideas from the educa
tors in these lines. And thero is no
place where so much information may
be obtained in so short n timo and at
so littlo expense nlong these lines as
at the annual round-ups. Then make
up your minds right now to all be
there.
IN THE MARKET FOR TUNG
STEN AND OTHER IRON OHES
831 N. Harvard Blvd., Los Angeles
Cal., Dec. 29, 1915. Editor Iron County
Record, Cedar City, Utah, Dear Sir.
I saw an article recently in your pa
per concerning tho grcut deposits of
iron in your county. I am in tho mar
ket for manganese, tungsten, and
chrome iron.
Will you kindly inform mo how far
the deposits of which you speak are
from rail road if they aro of either
of the above kinds.
Also, can you refer mo to anyone
who has these ores? If so, will you
kindly put them in touch with me and
havo them give mo full description,
and obligo, Yours truly,
J. G. BATES.
The editor of Tho Record is possi
bly not as well posted as to the spec
ific grades of ore contained in the de
posits of this county us somo of our
renders, but will state that tho iron
deposits are at the present timo from
12 to 20 miles from Salt Lake Route
railroad, and when the branch line is
built next season to Cedar City, as it
very probably will be, thoy will be
much nearer, somo of the deposits be
ing practically on tho projected road.
Ab to the varieties of iron con
tained, thero is black magnetic und
red hematite, Bcsscmor and others in
unlimited quantity. If uny of our
readers can glvo Br. Bates the specific
information he defaires, we will appre
ciate having them do so. Editor Record.
Mr. Will Armstrong, district agent
for Royal Typewriters, dropped into
town today and is interviewing local
peoplo in tho interests of this worthy
writing machine. Ho reports a num
ber of live prospects in sight.
HAYDEN SOCIETY H
WAS IN HARD LUCK - BBbI
Bad Roads, Counter Attractions and ,, H
Finally Failure of Light Mil- H
itnto Against Them. H
The Haydcn Society and other pco- BH
pic of Parowan taking part in the ! H
presentation of tho cantata, "The 1 M
Coming of the King," which was giv- ' AH
en in the tabernaclo last Wednesday BH
evening, certainly lnbored under (lis- H
advantages in bringing tho piece hero
ns well as in the rendering of it. ' BH
To commence with, tho roads were ' H
in anything but a satisfactory con-
dittion for automobile travel, and the ' H
company had difficulty in getting suf- t M
ficient enrs to make the trip. In tho I
next place, thero was a big married r H
people's danco on ut the ward hall, H
which had been planned for some con- ' 'H
sidernble timo ahead and could not be ! B
postponed, and a special fcaturo on j
at the motion picture theatre, which f M
combined to dotract from tho attend- ! M
ancc nt the cantata, and it is a well M
known fact that musicians nnd other j 'BH
performers cannot appear to tho best i'l
advantage when tho audlenco is small M
or irresponsive. But tho final limft )BBB
was reached when the electric plant ' '
went out of commission, leaving the P.H
room in darkness until oil lamps had B
been brought from all parts of town, BBB
which consumed a lot of timo and lost HBB
the spirit of tho occasion for the ma- 'BBB
jority of those in the audience, us well M
as the performers. BBJ
All theso drawbacks had u decided
effect upon the opening chorus, which ft
was not nearly so well rendered as IbBB
SOmO of tho BUbscntinnf. mimlumi "'BBI
when tho singers hnd regained their B
poiso and humor. i';BB
Whilo tho effect of tho picco could H
have been very materially improved ?H
by costuming and staging, the singing L Bfl
was all that had been claimed for it, IBBl
and did much credit to tho singers J? v JBB1
theitrainors.. .S t a'JH
Wo sincorely trust thnt our Parowan tVBB
friends will play in better luck upon' - wS
their next appearance here. ' 'V
itf? h?s ,bcen. no electric power . -H
available during the daytime for the fffl
past two days, duo to a break that -H
occurred in tho reservoir at tho head 'Bl
tL iLPlpc lino Wednesday evening. iBH
The break was repaired yestorday and , 'BB1
there were lights last night, but it BbI
went out again about 2 a. m. and the flfll
current has been off all day to- BBl
day, which has been tho means of BBI
delaying this issue of Tho Record a :?BB1
few hours. IBBJ
Married People'e Ball a Success. IbBB
Tho married ptople's ball given in BBB
the ward hall last Wednesday night 'BB1
by tho U. S. and Homo Culture Clubs, BBB
was generally conceded to bo a com- IBBB
pil B"ccess. Thero was a good lot iBBB
of the benedicts present, and for tho -, ; BBB
roost Part old timo dances, such as "tijBBl
t , T,c,mPe8t' Vesuvn Ann, Seven-up H
Schotticho, und others of this clnss BBl
were tho order of tho evening, though BBl
a few waltzes, two-stops, one-steps 'BBl
and walks were called for. yBBJ
E. J. Higbeo was master of ccrcmo- Bl
mes. The danco was all at tho ex- IBBl
poii8o of the clubs named, no tickets tBBB
being sold. 'BBl
Everyone seemed jolly and tho oc- BBfl
casion must certainly bo pronounced BB1
a success. 'BBl
Cedar City Librarian Honored. jBV
At tho recent reorganization of the iH
Stat Library Association, held at Salt BBl
Lake City in connection with tho BBJ
Stnto Teachers' convention, Professor 'BBI
Howard R. Driggs, well known to tho BBl
people of southern Utah as a former BBl
teacher in tho B. N. S. at this place, BBJ
wu3 chosen president of the associa- BBl
tion, and Mrs. E. Crane Wntson, tlio BBl
able librarian of tho local Carnagic BBl
library, was chosen as vice-prcsldont. BBl
Southern Utah appreciates the lion- BBJ
or thus conferred, and at the samo 1BQ
time realizes that tho confidence is SitS?
not misplaced. Mrs. Watson enjoys &
the reputation of being one of the ImtlB.
best librarians in tho state. She is pMfy
a lady of far more than average in- g
telligence and takes a great Interest r9y
nnd pride in hor work. Sho is not on- llii
ly willing, but qualified, to give vol- t$$v
uable advico in relation to the books &&
under her supervision to patrons of fiaf
tho library. She maintains good or- f ' 8&5
der und decorum, and without frlc- Vvffi
tion. Cedar City is fortunate in so- ' te&&
curing tho services of so competent a I skl
person, and the Stato Library Associa- " ; $
tion is to bo congratulated upon its ,M
cholco of a vice-president, as well, of wai
course, as of a president. . &g8
Prcsbyteriun Mission ServiccH. ' G
I have been asked jeveral times for &x$
an exposition of Christian doctrine, W$
as I seo it, sharply contrasted with l
other views on tho sumo uubjects. ' nJjp
Sunday evening I hopo to begin, n j HQ
series of sermons nlong this lino.' I I S9
hope to deal, in a friendly way, with fcul
vital subjects. - Bl
Tho subject of Sunday evening's , !
sermon will be: "A General Survey H
of tho Message of Jesus."'
Wo welcome all who caro to worship B
with us. CLATON S, RICE,' . ---i
Minister. "! BB
m
' SHI
Bi
MflBi
-,- - ' H-MflWlilMIII 1-flMI
