" IBitM?!' ' - -- nBBB
bbbbbv ubbbbbI
I I
IT WATCH fT IK fgsK , IaSK THE POSTHASTE! fl
H Tlic advertisements In The Sum from M I jl II tLpmSmr?h' SSt in iItIbT vsBBV
wrote to week Incllcnto who nro tlic vliv X v II II ITStSljf-SBTBsKLl III 111 1 H H In rtontit nulo the circulation f BBBJ
L, merrlianui or Price ami the nur- ferd y 1 ll&tBBdAac gggssBWF JILltt ,1 lILs newspaper nt Price nml at the VM- .M
JX1. Tlic really alive one S ST "i 4V T oltlcw of Carbon county an.l Emm H
H advertise their offcrhiRs In Tlio Run. p" ITipAl I V RPPIIRI irflW VtaU '" R01'0'' J,ul n"k ,l, . H
tSTwn amw moncr by iwillnit , , fUL.1 I IUMLLY, Wfc.h'UtlLIUAlM. postmnMcr. The Hun subacrlptk. M
BB ultti Snn nilwrtUcni. Entered ns Second-Class Matter, Juno 4. 1815. at tho PostofHco at Price. Utah. I'ndcr the Act of Jdnrch 3. 1870. I,ook!, nre ",,rn " n" n'rtlcris im 3BBB
- ' l VOLUME 1; NUMBER 32. EEliFiin" JXwUARY tTTmB ,ww,,w!,h' "
I COUNTRY DEMAND
I QU TE JINSATIABLE
H MKHYTMN" IN CATTLK AND
Hj MOOS AT HPIiKNDin IMUCICM.
B Mirep ami IdtntlH -7111110 Sharp Ail-
tunee ami Tlicn Hurt or Material Ite-
1 laimw-lloHctrr, Morkrt KtlffcM
M mill Show Ailrnnce of Ten to Twcit-
B ly-r'he Ccnl N'o iW)rroclcl Prices.
B v itespondcnce The Bun.
H KANSAS CITY, Wo., Jan. 3. There
H v an Home weakness In beet steers taut
H ucsday, but the net change for the
H t eek wii not material. Tho clone
B f the week found everything cleared
up and packing houses with bare sup-
j.ly ptna. Hence everybody was In a
H ' uylng mood today, itccelpts alxteon
thousand head. A large sharo of the
H receipts were atockcra and feeder.
H and trade In these wns actlvo at
H monger price. Killing cattlo sold
r.t Heady price. Nothing cxtrn good
H in steer vra here. Top price II.2S,
H middle-class steers $7.00 to 18.00.
B Plain warmed up atccr around 18.60.
H Cow tnd bull are nelllng at higher
H prices. Choice heavy cows $6. SO to
H I 00, choice heavy hull up to 16.25.
H Veal calve aUo higher nnd up to
H it 60 Blocker and feeder conllnun
H t move freely. Country dmnnd I
H apparently Insatiable. Tho outgo last
B week waa twice na great aa for the
corresponding week a year ago. and
the total ahlpmcnt for the year 191 B
M waa never beforo eiunlled, at nlno
hundred nnd nineteen thousand head.
HI 7,.. a nnd Minnesota rontrlbuted
jtlHiut a hundred nnd fifty carload of
cuttle todny, largely atookerK and
J ramo hog and hecp Merc nlo in-
Bj hided from Northern Inwi. Nine
J ad "i Panhnndln ycftCngi, around
J r x lm ulred pound nvcrnrfc, broueiit
Is 00 loJ i, but atocic atexr fro ! I-
ing tnnlnly nt 10.00 to $7.00. fneder
largely at $6 23 to $7.00 mid aotue
Jl it-nliy feedera taken recently In com
J . utioii with pinker up to $$.10.
J The uittl- market today nn t-ncour-
J Ring, particularly with the rather
H ieral run
J I loir arrived to the number of iev-
j fnloni thounand head, Including fire
J thiiuwind head brought In by packer.
J inol if them iHHight nt Hloux City.
J In Chlengo had an nnormou upply
J nnd a break In price, nnd rale hero
J n.ito largely ten centa lower. Top
Ifl'Jij bulk or aulea $0.10. Unlit
MJ hog nri- welling relatively better than
J n week ago up to $e.S today. Total
BBJ hog packed alnrn the Hennou npened
J November lt nt Wentern point I
"9 per cent greater tlwn u year ago
in number of head, but weight aver-
B .lie about It per cent lighter thin
J ear llunco the net gain I materl
J oily reduced, Halea of cut meat nnd
product are 40 to 60 per cent heavier
than a year ago, and lard ale whow
J u big Increone. Hhorlage of ocean
J (U I rontrlctlng tPMiort. elktt tin-
J Incromo would be grealer. Apparent
ly the hog market la on a firm bun It
und able to take rare of very heavy
tupplle.
BJ' Sheep nnd lumb inuile a aharp ad-
J ' ance tnit week and then auffered n
J rolnpue Today tho run I ten thou-
J and head, nnd tho market I ten to
J twenty-five cent higher, nlmort up to
V latt week'a level. Dent lamb brought
Kl $i :& to $.3B today, yearling $S.2S,
f wether $6,75 and owe $6.26. Deal-
Kl 1 ri nay Northern Colorado nnd Went-
ern Nrbraka will run lamb fait now
BE until the market break, which would
Indicate no akyrocket price during
the next month.
H ni:cuiti-s wooi, must iiavi:
I i'iTi:cnvi: tahut on it
H Without 11 protective tariff tho wool
ff Industry of the United State will be
J vuliject to tho competition from New
H Zealand, Amtralla and Kuropo after
J the Kuropeau war and will ntund In
J the nam i! relation nx tho factorle of
f the country which will be thrown Into
J 1 ompetltlon with the Kuropean fac
J ftrlo. Hay A. J. Knollln of Kana
1 Ity, vice prevldent of the National
J Woolgrower nsoclatlon, who 1 now
J In Salt Iake City to attend the com-
j ing convention of the aiaoclatlon.
Knollln avicrta that a tnlttnko wn
J made by the administration In ellm-
J Inatlng Schedule K by tho Underwood
H tariff bill He Buy that with tho
J duty taken from wool the f elgn pro-
iiucer ha the het of the market In
that he can produce hi clip for a
J great deal le than tho American
. lolgrower
ItCglVlH IiOnH of SIlOW.
J Attendance at tho convention thin
J '.car will be the largett In the hlitory
H of the aiuoclatlon and In the opinion
uf Knollln there will be many mnt-
tern taken up looking, toward better
J Ing condition of the woolgrowerk.
Ho awerted that the failure to hqld
J 'lie ram auction vule and aheep show
in Bait Ijike City waa a calamity to
the aheepmvn of tho country and that
the dlieaae which became prevalent
in the Eaat In November wero re
f Kpoualblo for the calling off of the
how
BBJ 'At Oil time tho re I coming Into
fl the lulled States great qunntltlea of
BH ool from Australia hnd New Zea-
land." ay Knollln. "Th. good price
which were paid for winl In thl
toumry latt year were not cu-med by
J vorld competition, but because the
BM demand for wool on account of t'.ie
B&V European war exceeded the supply.
BBS Tim price or clothing has not decreas
BBM d, the government I out more tha
BBB po.000,000 In revenue and It may be
bbL' ifc
THE COMMANDER YESTERDAY AND TODAYf
more, n n greater amount uf foreign
wool ha come into tho United Htatc
the pant year than over before.
Wool .May Drop.
"There I little doubt that the wool
grower will Vo on record a favoring
an adequate tariff to protect the In
dustry In thl country. With free
range and cheap labor, Australia
and New Zealand can produce wool
and rell It loner than the woolgrow
er of the United Htnte. We want
protection against thl and wo must
hne ome protection to exist It I
Mar time now nnd wool price should
not be Judged n normal. When
peare come In IJurope. wnlch wool
utrlkc tho bottom."
Menu To (ViiIh Iiutchm".
The Australian embargo on wool
export will mean iinlnfrcasn of two
cent a pound liL,lJomrlc,' received
by rtah woolgfmvers for their J810
illp. n net profit of $360,000. In the
opinion of Or. 8. W. McClure. sccrc
lar of the Nutlouul Wiolgrurr' us
aocliitlon. Amdiunccment that the
embargo would be put Into effect wo
contained In pre dlspatche Inst
Wcdnrdiiy.
Dr. McClure wild the embargo
would have tho effect of Immediately
strengthening the American innrkct
and thereby bringing better return
for the hundred thousand pound
carried over from last year anil now
ready for the market.
lie estimate that 360,000,000
pound of wool to be produced In the
United Htnte thl spring will be af
fected by tho Australian embargo.
Utah' contribution to the national
clip Mill be 13,000,000 pound.
KiiiiKn City Market.
KANHAH CITY. Mo.. Jan. 6. lloga
Ilecelpl. 9000; market higher. Hulk
$6.60 lo U.8O1 heavy, $6.80 to $6.(0;
liacker nnd butchers, $6.00 to $0.66;
light. $C.B6 to tG.Tt; pig. $6.26 to
$6.25.
Cattle Itecelpt. 2000; market
steudy. Prime fed steers, $8.60 to
$0.00, dressed beef steer. $0.76 to
$8.25; Western steer. $6.00 to IK. 60;
dockers and feeder. $6.50 to $8.00;
bull. $5.25 to $6.25; calve. $6.00 to
$10.00.
Hheep Hei-elptM, 6000; . market
higher, Itmb. $9.00 to $9.65; year
ling. $7.60 to $8.60; wether. $6.60 to
$7.26. ewes, $6.76 to $0.60.
Omaha I.lie Slock.
OMAHA. Neb., Jan. 6. Hog Ite
celpt', 18.600; market higher. Heavy.
$6.60 nl $6.75; light, $6.60 to $6.70;
pigs, $5.26 to $6.35; bulk of rales.
$6.60 to $6.70.
Cattle llecelpts, 6000; market
steady. Native steer. $6.00 to $9.00:
cow and heifer. $6.00 to $7.00; We
tern teer'w $6.00 to V..76; Texu
fleers. $6.76 to $0.76; Blockers nnd
feeder. $6.25 to $7.50.
Hlieei Itecelpt, 6500. market
higher. Yearling. $7.00 to $8.25;
wether. $0.35 to $7.25; lamb, $9.00
to $9.90.
KXOIt.MOCH ItlXltllTri
OP WOOI AT HUSTON
IIOSTON. Mas., Deo. 31. Wool re
ceipt In thl city for 1916 showed an
Iiktvo of nearly 100,000,000 pound
over 1911, according t6 figure com
piled today. Tho 1915 receipt were
663.839 bale or 217,914,385 pound
i)f foreign, und 781,172 bale or 181.
700,078 pound of domestic wool.
Tho 1914 receipt wero 328,778
hale or 144,145,491 pound of for
eign, nnd 771.369 bale or 190,730,
629 pound of domestic wool. The
flhliiment in 1915 aggregated 274.
473,433 pound, a compared with
267.149.306 In 1914.
IXK CSOINOTO KMKUY.
Sportsmen of Km cry county have
raised four hundred dollar and will
receive a carload of elk from the
government preserve In the Jackson
Hole country, according to a state
ment mude last Monday by Fred W.
Chambers, state fish and game com
missioner. Cauhe county sportsmen have been
ruining a fund and expect to have
enough shortly to buy somo elk. Tho
government Is offering the animal to
tho Western States because of a short
ago of feed In the Jackson Hole dis
trict. -jr
BB-
AUTOMOBILE LINE FROM
PRICE TO UINTAH BASIN
"Dally stage service by early sprintr by way of Price." Such
is the word that comes to a business man of tiiis city from inter
ested ones at Myton through a lending citizen of that Uintah
Hnsin town.
"Thi poor service over the other line, especially through the
winter and spring months, is not only inconvenient for us, but is
somewhat of a knock for the country, inasmuch us a disngrceable
ride into the Hasin country discourages many,u settler before lie
arrives. Securing a responsible company, it is believed here, will
be an easy matter if the road wero placed in condition for auto
mobile travel, and we know the Price end will be nil right."
Some time ago The Sun gave publicity to the fact that when
the roads were in proper condition from Price to Myton 1 enerva
tion parties were willing and ready to establish an automobile line
between tho two points. The Sun, together with all public spirited
citizens of Price, hopes to sec v proposition above suggested
take form. Husincss men here will do their share in the undertaking.
IRISH DIVIDENDS M ITS G DAL
MINES Hi RAILROAD INTERESTS
Mather a bullish statement has
been Issued to It stockholders by the
United Slate Smelting, Iteflnlng und
Mining company under date of De
cember 38, 1916, front tho general of
fice at Iloston, Mas. Thl corpora
tion hold most of the bond und
stock of tho United State l'u el com
pany and the Consolidated l'u el corn
pan), operating In Carbon and Cm
er counties. Also tho bond and
stock or tho Utah railway, tin Castle
Valley railroad and lint Southern
Utah railroad. The statement comes
under tho signature or 1". W. Hatch
elder, secretary of the smelting and
mining company, nnd roads:
"At tho meeting of the hoard of
directors, held on December 28, 1915,
the regular titiartcrty dividend at the
rate of 7 per cent on tho preferred
stock was declared, und u dividend of
eeventy-flve cent per share or 'nt tho
rate or 0 per cent per annum won de
clared 011 the common stock, Ihith
dividend payable on January 16,
1910, to stockholders of record at the
closo of business, December 31, 1915.
In resuming the payment of dividends
011 tho common stock, the director
feel that the stockholder should bo
placed In poisesslon of tho following
facts:
"At the quarterly meeting of di
rector held during the year It wu
decided that owing to the unsettled
condition In Mexico, It wu wise to
take no action an common dividend
and to allow the cash resource and
working capital to Increase. Whllo
condition In Mexico have Improved,
they nre not yet normal, but ns earn
ing from the properties In tho Uni
ted State havo been larger than ex
pected, and with the expectation or
earning from Mexico being larger
the coming year, the director decided
to pay a dividend on the common
stock at this time.
"The earning for the past year
i (December estimated) will show a
surplus of -over $4,300,000. This sur
plus I after payment of preferred
dividends, and after a reserve for de
preciation. Improvement and explor
ation of nearly $800,000. and a upo
clal resorvo from earning from xlnc
smelter largo enough to write off
tho Investment made durlrt the year
In xlno smelter to lesn than ono-thlrd
of their cost. Present Indications aro
that the earning from the xlno smel
ters during January and February
will be such that the remainder of
thflr cost will be earned anil can be
written off by March 1. 1916.
"This surplus after these reserves
I equivalent to over twelve dollars'
pur share on the common stock, or to
u rate of over 21 per cent per annum.
Tho earnings for the last quarter (Do-
BBBBBBBBBBs
comber estimated), owing In purl lo
the sale of metals nt high price, will
bo tho best of the cur, being at the
rule of over 60 per cent or twenty
five dollars a shore for the common
stock per unnum, excluding earning
rrom xlnc smelter. Your Mexican
propertle hixvo contributed about 20
per cent to the earning of tho yeur.
"Tho Mat htudiu- I in hern xxr
nml iiiiNiitUrnctory, but I iM'ttci nt tho
ptwnt time, foul mill rollroiiit prop
erties Mill full tu inrn fixed charge
oil the 1 0,(100,00(1 or Utah ,y ,,Hiut
HIJVI03 ror tho cnr. Till deficit
hai been rwncl from ciirulng Ik
rmv iirrhlng nt Hit iiIkiio mentioned
net figure,
"There have been now and Impor
tant deelopment In some or the
propertle during tho year, which
have already resulted In putting In
sight a new tonnage of ore or high
grade and large In quantity. These
new developments whllo within ur
old propertle nro In entirely now ter
ritory "These development nro continu
ing und although It Is Impossible nt
thl time to estimate tholr full value,
.tho director believe tho stockholders
should bo Informed that the possibili
ties nppeur so large that with a fur
ther continuance of these develop
ment It I possible thut a now stan
dard of value bo made for the com
mon stock."
HI'IfllAIM l'AU.Mi:ilK WH.I,
IIAVi: Ni:V WATKIl hUPI'l.V
III'UltAIM. Jan. 6.TI10 farmer
counter proposition which it commit
teo named nt a previous mooting had
drafted on tho proposed water scheme
for Kphrulm. Insti notion wero given
lo seek subscriber. Tho plan I to
drive a tunnel, with the capacity of
one hundred second-feet, through tho
1 mountain oust of Kphralm, to build
a reservoir on tho east side of the
1 mountain range, and estnbllsh suit
' utile channel and canals to divert
'the wuter from the Horseshoe llasln
to the tunnel.
It I estimated that tho project will
cost the farmers approximately 1220,
000. They have ten year to pay for
It and at tho completion of the pay
mont tho system I to become tho
ptopetty of the oijranlzatlon. Henry
IC. I.und of Suit Lake City accepted
tho proposition as presented by the
furmrs. At the present tho fanners
around Kphralm aro able to Irrigate
about one-half of their farms, the
other half being summer fallowed.
They hope to obtain more water nnd
later cultivate all their land and pro
duce a greater variety of crops,
BBBBBBBBBBl
LIGHT AND POWER I
PLANT IS SOUGHT I
Proposition Made to Incoming City Adminis- H
tration For Outright Purchase Results In H
Granting of Three Months Lease On the H
Same Terms As Heretofore -Appoint- H
ments of Mayor Confirmed, Except One. H
The first meeting of the new city council was held last Tuesday H
evening nnd was attended by all members, including Mayor Hors- H
ley, and quite a number of citizens were there as interested spec- M
tators. Mayor Horsley and the four newly elected members had H
taken their oaths of office at noon on Monday Inst. The meeting H
hnd been called for making appointments to the several offices to M
be filled. However, before proceeding Mayor Horsley asked if H
there were any matters that those present wished to bring before M
tho council. V. It, Putnam, sales manager for Utah Power and M
Light company, stated that he had a proposition to offer for the M
purchase of tho city's lighting and power plant. The gist of the M
gcntlemnn's talk was that his company was ready nnd willing to
buy outright the system, which is, or was up to December 31, 11)15, M
under lease to J. II. Manson. Tho price, however, wan not staled M
by Putnam. Mayor Horsley said that as himself and the council M
were not familiar with the matter he believed It proper that more 1
time bo taken to go thoroughly into the matter. As the Manson M
contract expired on December SI, 1015, snid Mayor Horsley, and M
as Putnnm for the Utah Light nnd Power company hnd submitted M
a proposition to run the lighting system on the same terms as hnd l
Manson, he thought things should go on as they were for a time
at least. After an interchange of opinions of tho mayor, members ,M
of the council and the representative of Utah Light and Power jl
company (Putnnm), it was decided that the Utah Light atd Power H
company should take up at onco the running of the plant (from "-BbI
December 31, 1015) for a term of three months nnd a coutrnct to ' M
this effect was authorized to be drawn. Utah Power and Light -1
company receives from tho city nine hundred dollars per month 'H
for operation and maintenance of the plant as under the Manson H
coutrnct. Mayor Horsley and members of the council stated to M
Putnam that they would take the mnttcr of tho salu of tho city r -iH
plant to Utah Power and Light company under consideration nnd LbV
let the company know in tlic very near future. To sell tho plant M
takes a vote of the taxpayers of the city. The cost of the planl to H
dntc is in the neighborhood of thirty-four thousand dollars. Of H
course there has been some depreciation. M
Wants to Make Collections. H
Another matter came up which caused considerable surprise H
and about which the council wns undecided. It was tho proposal Vfl
of Lee Whitmorc to collect the light nnd water bills nnd the out-
standing bills of tho same nature for a commission of 3 per cent M
Heretofore the city hns paid A. II, Hunten, the city treasurer, B H
commission of 5 per cent on all such collections. Innsmuch as the iH
salary of the city treasurer is not so large aa to causo an npprc- M
ciable shrinkage of the city's revenue nnd that lie (tho treasurer), H
hns to pny his own office rent, no one nt least no ono with a keen H
sense of tho ridiculous could consider the commission of 5 per H
cent exorbitant, nnd tho proposal seemed to tako tho council M
"all aback." At till events tho matter wns Inid over until the next M
rcgulnr meeting. 1
Mayor Horsley then rend to the council tho various nppoint- H
ments to the different committees nnd tho mnttcr of nppoint- A"bb
ments to other city offices wns then tnken up. The present mar- bb!
shnl, David Bryner, received tho nppolntmcnt of city marshal. F. H
E. Woods was reappointed city attorney. Albert Pncc succeeds M
himself ns superintendent of streets and waterworks and Arthur M
J. Lee will again serve as city justice. The reappointment of A. M
J. Grnmes ns sexton nnd city janitor wns made, but the mayor's M
appointment of Dr. R, E. Cloward as city physician was not en- H
dorscd by tho council. The marshal's salary wns cut from a hun- M
dred to ninety dollars a month, tho city nttornoy from forty to H
thirty nnd tho superintendent of streets nnd wntenvorks from CW-wBB
ninety to eighty dollars. Tho city hall janitor nnd sexton, Albert H
J. Grames, is to receive forty dollars n month. This wns thought J M
little enough and is tho snme ns heretofore. Tho city physician, 'B
when nnmed, will get ten dollars a month, tho samo ns it has been. H
"Morg" King, fire chief, will receive five dollars for each firo ho H
attends, and his assistants two and a hnlf dollnrs each. The city ' ""bb
marshal is named as poundkeepcr. City Justice Lee, of course, H
works on tho fee plan. ,H
Stnntling Committees Nnmed. (H
Henlth City physicinn, Lars Frandsen and Thomas Fitzger- jH
aid.
Wnterworks J. W. Loofbourow, J. O. Fnusett nnd.Lnrs Frnnd- jH
sen. "I 4H
Public Park Lars Frandsen, Thomns Fitzgernld and John H.
Pace.
Streets John II. Pace, Thomas Fitzgerald and Lars Frandsen. H
Electric Lights A. W. Horsley, J. W. Loofbourow nnd J. O. JbI
Fnusett. jjM
Cemetery Thomns Fitzgernld, Lars Frandsen nnd John H.
Pace. jB
Building Inspection J. W. Loofbourow, J. 0. Fausett"nnd Lan JH
Frnndflcn. 1H
Members of Library Board Mrs. T. R. McMillan and F. E. )BB
Woods, Esq. "
The council ndjourned to next Tuesday evening. Regular jK
meetings wero fixed for the second and last Tuesdays of ench $
month. 9BB
8o fur as Tho Bun linn been able to
learn the recent storm, which has
been general i' over Eastern Utah
nnd Western Colorado, has brought
no serious losses tu either sheep or
cattlemen. On the other bond It Is
a great thing for sheep, most of the
herds of this seotlon of tho state now
being on tho cast and southeastern
desert
State Auditor Lincoln U. Kolly Is Hfl
orepnrlng a table of tax assessments iiB
for this year by counties, earning out ,. ill
his estimates of what tho year's rev- r H
enuo fiom tuxatlon will bo. When his !
compilation und estimates are com- -4BB
pleted they will bo art to county ? jBbI
commissioners, auditor and treas- ' VS
titers as a guide to them of what tht JbB
stato expects. ,!H
tBB
'"' JH
"-'II Jl
I jMM
