OUR fil O T T O BOOST AMD HELP THE OTHER FELLOW.
HUMMER
Volume
Houston, Miss., Jan. 7, IOIG.
Number 33
NEW OFFICERS INSTALLED HONDAY
NEW DEPUTIES CHOSEN
Jan. 3rd, all the "outgoing" and the "incoming" offic
ers of Chickasaw county met in the courthouse and amid
general regrets and congratulations the installation was
correctly carried out. Ex-Chancery Clerk Brannon was
the installing officer and as each new officer faced him in
turn he administered the oath of officialdom so help them
Kod.
( In the Supervisor's room for the next four years will
'be R M Paden, LonJudd, Oscar P Norman, Edgar Seay
and D D Dendy. Hon Jeff Busby has been retained as the
legal advisor .of the Board. These supervisors have WORK
to Do in the next four years. Lots of it will be tedious
and tiresome and irritating, but we believe they will do
their very best for the greatest good to all the people. To
3 of them the work is new and we respectfully ask that no
man criticise the Board right on the jump. Possibly they
will make mistakes all men do but please let's cooper
ate with them more so than in the past. Let's help them
with the glad hand and the happy smile.
It the Sheriff's office Joe L Davis reigns supreme. Hal
Brannon is now his Deputy at Houston. W J Williams
will be his Deputy at Okolona. Bee M Smith will help
Davis and Brannon until the rush is over. Efficicency will
be the main spring in this office.
In the office of Chancery Clerk W A Wilkinson rules
the roost. John Clifton Williams is his deputy Mr Wil
kinson is well qualified to fill this important office and
will make Chickasaw a good officer.
In the Superintendent's office George D Riley remains
for four more years. He had no man to beat but himself !
and Riley WON without a vote. What he has done and J
what he will do is worth thousands of dollars to the county !
Schools in Chickasaw are coming along fast now and Mr
Riley is planning greater and better progress for them dur
ing the next four years. "Busy" is his middle name but
the family forgot to put it down in the Bible.
In the office of Circuit Clerk Miller Cili'oy is the mmi
behind the oath. Joe C Davis is his Deputy. Mr Gilfoy is
yet very sick, but hopes are great for his speedy recjvery.
In the office of Treasurer G L WiDldridge is the man
behind the money. He will be on the job every day.
In the office of County Attorney Jeff Busby will dis
pense the law coining and going.' Mr Busby has made
good as an attorney tor the county bringing much money
into the treasury which otherwise the county would never
have received. He will make all the Justice courts as be
fore and keep the law side of the county running smooth.
To all the new officers The Hummer hands them sin
cere congratulations. We earnestly hope that the New
Year and the next three of your term will be fraught with
good will and great achievements in the great play of
government for the people and by the people. We wish
you the very best of success in all of your business and
may the people all over the county cooperate with you in
making good old Chickasaw county the best in Mississippi.
Houston to be Honored.
Miss Martha Hadley.noted soloist.to give Song Recital,
accompanied and assisted by Miss Elizabeth Young, well
known pianist. t
On January' 21st, 1816, at 7:3!) p. m., at High School
Auditorium there will, be one of the season's rarest events
in the musical way.
Misses Hadley and Young of Mass., are members at
present of the Blue Mountain College musicial faculty.
Both are graduates of the New England conservatory while
Miss Hadley has had also an extensive course of study with
professionals in New York.
The following are only a few of the many testimonials
and criticisms taken from different papers which prove to
us, Miss Hadley's unusual personality and ability as a sin
ger: "Her voice is of wide range.fiexible and of most beau
tiful quality." The Morning Mercury.
"Miss Hadley possesses a a voice of unusual qualify
and sang with dramatic intensity and most exquisite sym
pathy and understanding a group of Irish songs were
given with a naive grace that immediately captured the
appreciation of the audience." The Bostoa Globe.
"Her voice is of rich quality, an 1 very even through
out, It is a splendid voice, one that has gained in rich
ness and color through years of study and culture. Her
execu'tiou is unusually brilliant, while her notes are clear
as a bell she was accompanied by Miss Ellizabeth Young,
who is an unusually gifted pianist." New Albany Gazette
From the Speru-erville Spinster. "The musical event
of the season took place Monday night, when Miss Martha
Loyise Hadley, Spender's 'own primo donna' appeared be
fore a hugh and highly appreciative audience. The pro
gram was beautiful and of great variety. Her French
songs were as pleasing as those sung in her native tongue.
The 'ah, ah oh"! etc., (we could'nt understand the rest)
was simply charming, and even now, as we reline in our
swivel cnair we toot wj can hear the exquisite
notes of the song floating far out irto the stormy night.
Truly, it was an extraordinary treat for music lovers, this
recital, and it will be long and favorably remembered by
the townspeople of Spencer."
Judging from what has been learned from these testi
monials in addition to the comments made by this sin
ger's personal acquaintances and people of our state the
editor of The Hummer feels confident that nothing less
complimentary than the last criticism, may be published
after the entertainment of Friday evening, Jan. 21st.
Tickets for this occasion can be purchased at both
drug stores. Prices 23 and 53 cents.
Notice to Farmers.
As agent for the farmers co-operative demonstration
work co-operatiniwith Chickasaw county, I wish to offer
my services to th? farmers of the county. My headquar
ters are at Houston and I shall be glad to meet you on
your farms or go out with you at any time to visit your
j farm and to advise with you in regard to fertilizing, plant
ing, cultivating crops, and will assist you in terracing and
: drainage. I will also help you locate better seed and bet
! ter live stock, innoculate your hogs and cattle, and assist
you in any way I can, besides offering my personal servi
ces I am here to help you use the U. S. Department of
Agriculture and the Experiment Station. I am now en
listing some demonstration farms over the county to be
farmed under government instruction. The farms may be
any size from one acre up and preferable not over ten, and
may be planted to any one crop suitable to conditions. I
will meet the farmers at these farms from time to time,
: usually about every thirty days, and together we will dis
cuss seasonable topics relative to the crops being grown.
The object of these demonstrations is to introduce better
! methods of farming. We do not attempt to break records
'we demonstrate conservative methods, and try to make
I the hignest yields at least cost. During the week most of
my time will be spent among the farmers throughout
Chickasaw county. On Saturday I may be found at the
the office of County Supt. of Education Riley at Houston.
Call on me when in town. I shall be glad to take up
enquiries by mail and will answer all letters. My services
are free to you, and you should not hesitate to call upon
me when in need of them.
Yours very truly, KOBT. S. MITCHELL,
d CENTS wi" bri"S vou for F0UR MONTHS as a trial subscrip
jj P n tion, the Souths greatest poultry journal. It has more good
H S l)ra(,ti('a' articles in one month than others have in six. A pa
mJk per that is worth something to every fanner and beginner in
the poultry business. It is a paper that every poultry club
member should get. Send direct to the
Mississippi Poultryman, Box 20, Tupelo, Miss.
TERRACE DEMONS f A
TiON. I w.l! conduct a demonstration in
laying out and building terraces at
tne far. u of 0 L C x near Motion
on luesday Jan lllh. We will
demonstrate methods by winch
any fanner may lay out and con
struct terraces with the ordinary
tools of tne farms. We will build
tile broad terrace, winch can be
cultivated and thus do aay with
waiste land usually seen along the
hill-side ditches. The need of tins
work is very plainly 'seen m a
large portion of Chickasaw county,
and 1 feel sure that we can mterest '
you, and make your time well
spent at this meeting. This meet
ing is purely for the benefit of the
faniers of the county. Itiere will
also tie a similar demonstration
made near Okolona some time in
the future, the tune and place not
being determined yet. j
K S Mitchell,
Local Agent, Dem. Work.
Save
Vf
onej-
SAVE YOUR COUPONS!
On and after the 7th day of
January we will give Tickets for the
42 piece Dinner Set on Accounts cs
well as Cash trade. Hold your
Tickets they are good for the 100
piece Dinner Set.
J. B. PADEN,
Houston, - - Mississippi
of a
and
5th
the
TRUSTEE SALE
By virtue of the provisions
trust deed made by i'et Childs
his wife, Kate Childs, on the
day of Jan. 1915 to secure
payment of a certain indebtedness
ro the Bank of Woodland and which
is recorded in Deed Book 10f, ,-age
559 in the Chauccrv Clerks ollice of
i Chickasaw County, Mississippi, and
I default having been made in the
! payment thereof, according to the
terms of said trust deed and I hav
! ing been requested by the benefi
ciary of said trust deed, and also
Kate Childs, widow of the late Pet
Childs, 1 the undersigned trustee
i w ill proceed to sell the property
mentioned therein, at the east door
of the Court House in the town of
i Houston, Mississippi, in said county
on MONDAY THE 7th DAY OF
'FEBRUARY 1918. within legal
i hours at public outcry to the high
est bidder for cash to-wit: All of
! that part of the W 1-2 of the S W
; 1-4 of Sec. IS, T. 15, R. 3, east, lying
i North of the public road where it
now runs, said road known as the
Walker road runing from Sparta to
! Atlanta through the above Section,
i being 50 acres more or less situated
in Chickasaw County Mississippi
Title is believed to be good but I
will sell and convey only such title
as is vested in nie as said trustee
This the Gth day of January 1916
i W J Beasley, Trustee .
To Our Customers:-
Modern business requires modern methods, and this store is determin
ed to move forward with the most progressive.
We solicit a share of your patronage and promise you good goods, low
prices and courteous treatment.
We are pushing for business and We need your assistance.
YOU NEED THE GOODS; WE NEED YOUR TRADE. WHEN
WE BUY FOR CASH WE GET A DISCOUNT
- WHY MOT YOU? -
For each Cash Purchase at our store a receipt will be given.
All Cash Receipts are Valuable. SAVE THEII..
They can be redeemed any time for merchandise at 5 per cent, of the amount
printed on the receipts.
These receipts are issued by a mechanical cashier of the most approved de
sign which was recently built to our express order by the National Cash Register
Company.
Banks pay you 4 per cent, interest on money you save.
We pay you 5 per cent, on money you spend.
. THE DIXIE BARGAIN HOUSE
Kleban 8c Matz, Proprietors
Houston, :- : Mississippi
