Its Up to You--The People of Aberdeen
What will the New Year bring for Aberdeen? Just exactly what the men and women of Aberdeen collectively thing it will bring.
If we listen to the bleary-eyed croakers; if we pay heed to the ever present calamity howlers, Aberdeen is doomed. Grass will soon be growing on Heron street,
and the moo of the patient cow is about to replace the "honk-honk" of the seven-passenger.
And why this gloomy future? Because, forsooth, the saloons are closed, the grog shops have passed out of existence.
But if we listen to the clear-eyed folks—the men and women whose constructive work has made Aberdeen the magnificent city that it is—then Aberdeen is at
the dawn of a year pregnant with the greatest possibilities that the faith and hope of the niost confirmed optimist can conjure.
Whence came the hundreds of thousands of dollars that supported the saloons of Aberdeen and their allied interest? From the pocketbooks of the laborers, the
mechanics, the clerks and the business and professional men of the community. Where will the millions they formerly spent for booze go? For better homes, better food,
better clothing, better education, better amusements.
Business may be slightly disturbed during the period of change and a few deserving men are going to lose their regular employment, but they will soon find
honorable employment.
The saloonkeepers are out of business—they can't get our money. Eastern manufacturing centers are teeming with prosperity—they don't need our money. Let's
spend our money at home; right here in Aberdeen—let's spend it in a way that will build a bigger and better city and make us bigger and better citizens.
Now with a heart full of optimism and a soul full of hope, with body erect and head up, let us go into the New Year determined to win. "Three rousing cheers"
for 1916 and the era of prosperity that is certain to come.
TWENTY-NINTH YEAR
Now comes the cry of "preparedness," the spending of a few hundred
million dollars yearly to prove to the world that this is really a Christian na
tion, is something of a tragedy or a sublimated joke. It is a great problem
but the makers of war material should not settle it.
ABERDEEN'S
POLICE WIN
REAL REST
First "Dry" Week Passes
Without Arrest for
Drunkenness
OLD BARS DO WELL
Good Profit Found Here
in Selling Thirsty
Soft Drinks
With Aberdeen, in common with
the rest of the state, closing its first
"dry" week, the local police are en
joying a unique period of restfulness.
>ot one arrest for drunkenness has
jeen made since New Year's Eve.
Not one arrest on any misdemeanor
or other charge has been made since
the saloous went out of business, ;
week ago tonight. The blotter at the
Mriice station is acquiring a coat of
<S»t.
A number of establishments, for
jrff iy co tducted as saloons, are doing
<1»' apparently prosperous business
••ifvikig sort drinks. Proprietors rf
which opened late New Year's
■fr, declare that they have no kick
•iatever at the outlook ; fhat expenses
less, trade is good and profita are
THIS IS THE TIME TO SHOW IF YOU HAVE ANY GRIT AND GUMPTION
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
HARD TRAINING AHEAD.
THOMSON TO
AID KELSEY
ON WISHKAH
Seattle Man Will Act as
Consulting Engineer
Here
AWARD STREET JOB
Contract Is Let By Coun
cil for Curtis Street
Work
After considerable discussion the
city council, at Wednesday night's
session, acceded to the request made
by City Engineer L. I). Kelsey that he
be authorized to hire R. H. Thomson
of Seattle from time to time as con
sulting engineer on the Wishkah wa
ter project.
"After practically completing our
preliminary survey from the head wa
ters of the Wishkah river to the city,"
said Kelsey, "and after going over the
route and finding numerous engineer
ing difficulties to be encountered in
designing and construction of this
system, it is my opinion that this
water project can well and e.-onomic
(Continued to par<> 6).
ally : Tord to secure the advice and
large eno»gh to keep the wolf from
the door.
—Hodge in Spokane Spokesman-Review
CHAMBER TO
HOLD MEET
ON MONDAY
Annual Session of Local
Commercial Body at
City Hall
TO ELECT OFFICERS
Work of Ensuing Year
Will Be Discussed by
Members
The Aberdeen Chamber of Com
merce will meet Monday evening in
annual session, in the city council
chambers in the city hall. Officers
are to be elected for the ensuing year,
and a delegate to the National Cham
ber of Commerce, as well Aberdeen's
commercial organization now is a mem
ber of the National Chamber, and at
the meeting Monday it will take a
vote on several referendum proposi
tions submitted by the National
Chamber.
It is expected that there will be dis
cussion as to future plans. «f work, and
reports will "be submitted on finance
and membership, which will have n
large bearing upon what the Chamber
will do in the ceming year. The
meeting will open at 8 o'clock.
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1916.
PRODUCTS
INCREASE
IN 5 YEARS
Census Report Shows a
Consistent Growth
for Aberdeen
PAYROLLS $1,212,000
Capital Invested Here
Now Reaches Total
of $4,876,000
The United States bureau of census,
in a preliminary statement of general
results, shows improvements in Aber
deen in the year ending December 31,
1914.
The population of Aberdeen at the
census of 1910 was 13,600, and it is
estimated that it was 18,000 on July
1, 1914.
The capital invested, as reported in
1914, was $4,876,000, a gain of $316,000
or 6.9 per cent over $4,560,000 in 1909.
The average capital per establishment
was approximately $83,000 in 1914 and
$106,000 in 1909.
The cost of materials used in 1914
was $2,601,000, as against $2,171,000 in
1909, an increase of $429,000, or 19.7
per cent. The average cost of mater
ials per establishment in 1914 was ap
proximately $44,000, and $51,000 in
1909.
The value of products in 1914 was
$4,799,000 and in 1909, $3,590,000, the
increase being $1,209,000, or 33.7 per
cent. The average per establishment
in 1914 was approximately $81,000 and
$83,000 in 1909.
Value added by manufacture repre-
I sents the difference between the cost
| of materials used and the value of the
products manufactured from them.
In 1914 the value added by manu
facture was $2,198,000 and in 1909,
$1,418,000, the increase being $780,-
000, or 55 per cent. The value added
by manufacture in 1914 formed 45.8
per cent of the total value of products,
and 39.5 per cent in 1909.
Salaries and wages in 1914 amount
ed to $1,420,000 and to $1,156,000 in
1909, the increase being $264,000, or
22.8 per cent.
The average number of wage earn
ers in 1914 was 1,558.
The Salvation Army and Presbyter
ian, Methodist and Baptist churches
joined this week in the holding of
union services, nightly, at the Salva
tion Army hall. This is a departure
in local religious work, and, should
the meetings prove successful, they
may be continued next week.
SETS DATE FOR ELFCTICN
February 28 is the date set
by Mayor J. M. Phillips for
holding a special election to
see if Aberdeen desires to
change from ward council
manic to commission form
of government,
Working Together
EAGLES TO GIVE
GOOD PROGRAM
AT INSTALLATION
Public Is Invited to Witness Cere
mony Tonight, at Lodge Hall,
Followed by Dance
A public installation of officers
will be held this evening by Aber
deen Aerie No. 24, Fraternal Order
of Eagles, in their hall. Following
a program, which is promised to be
full of interest, including an address
by Rev. Charles McDermoth, vocal
solos by Mrs. Jessica Walker and A.
W. Tweedie, trombone solo by C. C.
Pinnick and selections by the Grays
Harbor orchestra, there will be a
dance. These officers will be install
ed:
F. E. Hite, worthy president; H.
G. Kirk, worthy Mice president; Capt.
Ed. Smith, worthy chaplain; B. P.
Moore, worthy secretary; Jno. Gro
now, worthy treasurer; Job. Gagner,
worthy inside guard; C. E. Judge,
worthy outside guard; John O'Hare,
Ira Brumbaugh, J. E. Pechacek,
worthy trustees; Dr. O. R. Austin
and Dr. H. C. Randolph, worthy phy
sicians.
As prosperity increases the u«e of automobiles will become more ener*
al. It is time that traffic reg /.-v *ons were inaugurated that wT»I ma.*e the
list of accidents more rare and life and limb more secure. Manj dr\v« "c ab*
solutely disregard the rights of pedestrians and the public generally. y
WAS IT THE CAN'S FAULT?
' «
"Billy" Lackana, logger, last ♦
Saturday placed a gallon pail and
dime on the bar of a Hoquiam
saloon, and was grieved and
astonished when the attendant
• told him that no "suds" were on
tap. Lackana, after bitterly
querying what the house was
• open for, set his can on the •
• floor and kicked it into the street. •
He was not looking for a soft •
drink. •
!• A A •
BEE CRAFT TO MEET
Beekeepers of the Pacific North
west will meet at Chehalls January
21 and 22, with the object of form
ing a permanent organization. Prof.
Linklater of the Puyallup experiment
station will give an address and other
speakers will be from various cities,
George W. Yonk of Sandpoint, Idaho,
being among them.
CUT OUT BOOZE ADS
Local newsdealers are clipping all
liquor advertisements from magazines
and newspapers published outside
this state, in compliance with the
"dry" law.
THE SPEEDER.
NUMBER m
START TO BOOST
SHINGLES TODAY
AT BIG MEETING
Manufacturers Gather in Seattle t»
Make Plan* for Publicity Cam
paign in National Magazines
Today in Seattle shingle manufac
turers of the Pacific Northwest will
meet to launch an advertising and
publicity campaign. The meeting is
under the auspices of the West Coaßt
Lumber Manufacturers' association's
shingle branch. Work to be started
today includes passing upon grading
rules, engaging of inspectors and ar
rangements for familiarizing whole
salers and dealers with the plans for
publicity. It is desired to start the
publicity work in magazines of na»
tlonal circulation in the spring months
recognized as the most active la
building.
VANDEVORT LEAVES BANK
R. C. Vandevort has resigned his
place as cashier and manager of the
United States Banking & Trust com
pany, to go to work for a Seattle
bank. Junior Hoonan is temporarily
filling Mr. Vandevort's place, until
the stockholders' annual meeting,
January 19.
