oulhin lleralib
VOL. XLX.
LIBERTY, MISSISSIPPI, FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 191 6.
NO. 39.
WAR
BRINGS OUT
FIGHTING SPIRIT
OF THE SCOTCH
Men From Lowlands and High
lands Swarm to Big Cen
ters to Enlist.
EXILES COME FROM OVERSEAS
Scottish Regiments Win Proud Rec
ord on Fields In t-ranee Make
Unequaled Rally to Rumble of
Empire's D-um Edln
J burgh Is Hard Hit.
SIGNING CHECKS BY MACHINERY
i
By 0. M. MATHIESON.
Edinburgh. The Scot in American
exile, who dally ponders over the di
versified war news and whose face
turns always to the homeland and
particularly the northern part there
of, where the mountains rise till thoy
are lost in the gossamer shreds of
mist and the sea rolls In amid the
thousand inlets of the western Hebri
des, may well wentfer how the up
heaval of the eastern hemisphere la
affecting the lives of the folks be has
left behind.
Let me say at once that over the
length and breadth of Scotland th
war spirit reverberated In a wave of
patriotism unparalleled In all the Im
perishable fighting iiistory of Old
Gaul. Figures available on ihe eve
of the last voluntary call to arms by
King George show that Scotsmen liave
made an unequaled rally to the rum
ble of the empire's rum.
To give a concrete illustration
from the island of Lewis 90 per cent
of the male population today wear
the king's uniform, mostly In the navy;
the cities of Edinburgh, Dundee, Perth,
Inverness and Aberdeen responded,
till now it is believed not a conscript,
it conscription comes, could be se
cured. Scotland for months has been a vast
armed camp. On tho border there is a
great camp occupied by the men from
the Lowlands. When I saw them thoy
had been in camp for nine months,
sturdy, well knit fellows, with the
keen, small eyes peculiar to the na
tives of the southern part of Scot
land. Away in the west in the farm
ing country of Ayr there are camps
where you meet the long-limbed, lean,
deep-chested men with the quick
gray eyes typical of the people of
tho western seaboard.
Fighting at Dardanelles.
On the Scottish regiments fell the
balk of the fighting in the Darda
nelles. It was on the regiments who
went out from the capital of the coun
try that the losses were heaviest, and
today in the city of Edinburgh there
is scarcely a family but mourns f
bs of a relative or a friend. The
ndlng at the Dardanelles has been
tten of as one of the wonder pages
n the military history of the world.
Scotsmen are happy, ghastly though
the sacrifices were, that to their sons
was apportioned the first effort to get
a looting on the peninsula. From Flan
ders again are endless stories of
jtfejMs which cover anew the names
ofjjcottlsh regiments with luster. Of
the famous Black Watch It is said they
carried their trenches at Loos half
an hour ahead of any other part of
the British army. This may or may
not be true, but at all events in the
fellah papers long accounts have
Bleared of the thrilling onrush of
IN kilties.
with which Lord Rosebery's
lame at the Dardanelles. The Cam-
Frank J. F. Thiel, assistant treasurer of
the United States, in his official capacity is
called on to sign ?arly 600,000 checks a
year. Recently a check-signing machine
was installed, and the other day Mr. Thiel
signed 100 checks in 64 seconds.
If SlMHjsHisWB
DAUBERT URGES SPEED
Brooklyn Captain Says Ball
Games Become Dreary.
eronians, the regiment largely recruit
ed from the professional classes of
Glasgow, the King's Own Scottish Bor
derers, the Fife and Forfar yeomen,
the Argyll, the Seaforth and the Gor
don Highlanders have all thus early
embellished their old fighting rec
ords. Hunger for a Fight.
There are men in these camps who
have been training for 14 months. They
are hungering to be sent out. They
represent the best blood in the nation.
They are drawn from the middle
classes and the Shire families.
At a recruiting rally I have seen
nothing more wonderful than the vol
untary assemblage of Scotsmen when
the flag was unfurled. Instances are
known where Scotsmen voyaged hun
dreds of miles on the rivers from the
backwoods of Canada. Scotsmen came
from the sheep farms of Australia,
from the rubber plantations In the
East, from the torrid plains of India,
from the golden Rand.
The old Scotsman watched and
there was a tug at his heart strings
the human river roll endlessly to the
land of home. He heard of his lads
who had crossed the Andes from re
gions almost unknown and sailed
round Cape Horn, 10,000 miles, all at
their own expense, to join the line of
battle for their race.
"How is life at home in these
times?" may be asked. Financially
the people have not felt the pinch.
There is less poverty, I should say,
than in pre-war times. One reason
for this Is that the flotsam and jetsam
have been as patriotic as the better
classes, and with the liberal separation
allowances made by the government
for the families of men who have en
listed there is plenty of money among
those ordinarily very poor.
Hive of Industry.
In Glasgow prosperity is abounding.
This is accounted for by the enormous
demand in the shipyards and in the
great engineering shops. From Green
ock to the Broomielaw every shipyard
on the Clyde is choked with work. The
banks of the river are a hive of Indus
try in shipbuilding and ship repairing.
In the great steel works' the same
story is told. The guns that are being
forged, the munitions that are being
made, are beyond reckoning in quan
tity and Glasgow has money far in ex
cess of the days before the war. At
a football match played in Glasgow on
the third Saturday of October between
the Celtics and the Rangers about 70,
000 spectators were present. The total
of the gate money was not published,
but I know that the sum taken was
between $7,500 and $10,000.
Of course Glasgow iaMfferent from
other cities, for there a very great
part of the male population has been
compelled, much against its inclina
tion, to stay at home for the purposes
of national industry. Indeed when the
nation began the organization of its
industry for war purposes great num
bers of mechanics were brought back
unwillingly from field service to take
their places in the workshops.
Edinburgh Hard Hit.
In Edinburgh, where the law courts,
the university and tho rich Insurance
and investment companies give so
much employment to highly educated
men, the collapse of Investments, the
almost deserted courts and the drop in
the number of students, who prefer
tho battle field to the professors' lec
tures, have all had an adverse effect.
Life, however, goes on almost as usual.
The theaters and other places of
amusement are crowded, the restaur
ants and the tea rooms are always gay
and the streets are filled with military
men. Prince street Is thronged by
the same fashionable crowd.
There are great battle squadrons
keeping their ceaseless vigil off the
coasts, and the naval man finds Edin
burgh his most convenient city for
relaxation. Admirals who have al
ready won renown can be met with
here of an afternoon. Admiral Sir Da
vid Beatty and his American wife are
often in the city. Lady Beatty is tak
ing a large part in Edinburgh affairs.
Their home Is Aberdour castle, a love
ly place on the Firth of Forth about
an hour's run from the city.
The shops are as brilliant and as
crowded as in pre-war days.
There are more than Scotsmen in
the Scottish regiments. The stirring
strain of the pibroch and the swing of
the kilt have brought in a number of
Englishmen. A Manchester lad crossed
into Scotland and enlisted in one of
the Highland regiments. He was lo
cated for months in Inverness and,
much to his disappointment, he did not
get a kilt, but was served out with
"trews." Weeks passed and no kilts
came along.
Then word came that the regiment
was to be shifted to the south of Eng
land preparatory to crossing to France.
Three days leave was given. The
young Englishman was mortified at
the thought of returning to Manches
ter to bid farewell to his friends, not in
the splendor of the kilt but in every
day trousers. He appealed to one of
the sergeants of the regiment. After a
great deal of argument the sergeant ar
ranged U) lend him a kilt for three
days for a dollar. He left in the train
in great glee and for a couple of days
swaggered about Manchester In all the
glory of his Highland uniform.
Nemesis, however, overtook him, for
on the third day he had such a terrible
cold that the doctor ordered hint to
bed. The young Englishman joined
his regiment a week later in the gar
ments bis legs were most accustomed
to.
Up to Players to Keep Ticket Buyers
Interested All the Tim Drastlo
Legislation May Be Recom
mended by the Powers.
Plans are already being formulated
by the officers of the baseball players'
fraternity to make the big league
games faster next season. President
Fultz of the fraternity issued a very
sensible appeal to the members along
that line in the middle of the recent
campaign. He pointed out that base
ball was experiencing a lean year and
would probably have another In 1916,
because of the European war and un
settled business conditions. He urged
that the players move to and fro from
their positions between innings on the
run, cause no needless delays in bat
ting and otherwise pepperize the pas
time, so to speak, in order to make It
as attractive and, therefore, as profit
able as possible.
For a while Fultz's wo'rdB bore fnrtt,
but games of few runs extended from
two hours to two hours and a half be
cause of dilatory and lackadaisical tac
tics of the performers. This has tend
ed to disgust many of the fans who
dig into their jeans to furnish the
wages for these neglected persons.
The fraternity has taken up the sub
ject again, and may recommend dras
tic legislation by the powers of base
ball in order to spur the lazy athletes
to a more seemly activity.
Jake Daubert is an ardent booster
of the campaign for speed on the dia
mond, and Is In favor of the suggested
legislation. Said he:
"It is a crime against their intelli
gence and their Incomes for ball play
ers to waste as much time as they do
now in the course of nine Innings.
Baseball differs from football, lacrosse,
hockey and such sports in that all the
participants are not engaged all the
time. For that reason it is easy for a
PRESIDENT OF AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION
LIKE PART IN PLAY
don Theater Boy.
Through With Role He Re
hearsed, Has No Sense of Fear,
m Does Hit Share and Is
Wounded.
first charge, a British soldier
ia" the London Times how his
aeatn rousea mm to action
him rushing Into the charge
ultpd in his being wounded.
whie,, i before enlistment was a
fcurly Brtn a London theater.
before h all right once the curtain
of the sacays the soldier. "It was the
LafWhn's wait for the advance
'"Jonetiund most trying, with the
"Yea, hunder of the euns and the
Wf? lithe shells over our heads.
ml Impressive overture to
Jma to come. This was
my first appearance in a big battle.
"Although I knew the part I was to
play well enough, after the many
months of rehearsals in England. 1
must own that I was shaky, like an
actor on the first night, I suppose.
Looking back now, it seems strange
how quickly the feeling passed away.
"My chum and I had agreed that we
would stick together as long as we
could, but our plans were soon upset.
No sooner had we clambered out of
our trench than he went down. This
seemed to rouse me. I seemed to go
mad with rage and hardly knew what
I did. The most extraordinary thing
was that I seemed then to have no
fear of the bail of bullets which rained
clown upon us. They all seemed part
of the play.
"1 was carried along by an over
whelming impulse to get at the $nemy
and avenge my chum. I, like the rest
of us, scampered as fast as my legs
would carry me, slipping and sliding
in. the mud, until at length I Went
sprawling in the slush which had bleen
Points of View.
There is one matter on which wives
and husbands probably never will
agree. The wife forever will insist that
the idiot at the organ played the wed
ding march too fast, and the husband
will argue that the blamed numskull
lagged along until he thought be never
was going to get down the aisle.
churned up by the rain and shells.
I had just scrambled to my feet again
when I heard the order to renew the
charge.
"Leveling my bayonet, I rushed
headlong forward, jumping over bod
ies and barbed wire as though I was
electrified. My first experience at
battle was short and sweet, for I was
bowled over at the first trench. I re
member plunging my bayonet Into a
huge German who confronted me with
a leveled rifle. Then I was hit on the
bead by something or other which
made me see more Are than I bad Been
during the whole time I had been out
there. 1 hope to get a 'return engage
ment' and be In the last act of all, but
I have at least avenged my chum."
What She Looked Like.
A near neighbor called upon my
aunt one afternoon. She was most
becomingly arrayed in a new goWn
and hat. After my aunt had expressed
her approval In regard to the new
clothes, little Marion exclaimed: "And
I like 'em, too, and I think you look
just like a fashionable dish," Exchange.
Jake Daubert.
ball game to become dreary and
draggy unless all are on tbeir toes
and creating the impression that some
thing is going to happen every minute.
"Fans go to a baseball park not
only to see the competition, but to en
joy the open air and to have their
minds diverted. In other words, base
ball is an amusement, with local par
triotism as an added zest That's what
the spectators pay for, and It is up to
the men making a living out of the
sport to keep those ticket buyers In
terested all the time." .
Another Chance for Brief.
Bunny Brief may get another chanee
to get back Into the big league because
of his great record last summer with
the Salt Lake team. His hitting
helped that team climb very close to
the top of the list Brief was over
trained last spring, which was the rea
son that ho could not make good with
the Sox.
I ' ' l IHr
BHBBEBRSluP. hBSHBBSIM sfffffflnllsMBSsLjBB
Sells His Own Contract.
Pitcher Byron Houck, formerly of
the Athletics, was the first player to
take advantage of the offer of the
Brooklyn Federals to cancel long-term
contracts on a 50 per cent basis.
Houck turned over his contract, got
one-half the money It called for and
was made a free agent as far as the
Feds are concerned.
Pitt Has Star Utility Player.
Coach Warner of Pittsburgh uni
versity has A great utility niayer In
Uougher, who ought to be a star next
season. In the '.ndlan game lie kicked
a field goal from the 31-yard Hue,
George J. Turner of Baltimore, Md.
George J. Turner of Baltimore, Md., by a vote of 30 to 13 was elected
president of the A. A. U. at a meeting of the delegates at the annual con
vention of the Amateur Athletic union at the Waldorf-Astoria, New York.
Although there were more than 43 delegates present, a number of them
did not vote.
Mr. Turner Is well known In amateur athletics. He was born In Balti
more in 1873, was educated at Mount St. Mary's eollege at Emmitsburg,
Md. While at college he competed actively In all branches of athletics
and sports; bocame a member of the Aerial Rowing club In 1890 and from
that time until 1895 rowed and won numerous races throughout the coun
try, including the national four-oared championship August, 1892, at Sara
toga, N. Y. In that year he joined the Baltimore Athletic club and
captained and coached the famous Baltimore Athletic club eight-oared
shell crew, which had the distinction of never being beaten, winning nu
merous races, including-the senior eight-oared championship August, 1896,
at Saratoga, N. Y.
In 1895 he joined the Fifth Maryland regiment, serving throughout the
Spanish-American war, and continued as a aember of the regiment until
1910. He retired with the rank of first lieutenant and battalion adjutant.
JIM FLYNN TO SETTLE DOWN
Intends to Buy Farm and Raise Wheat,
Conn, Potatoes and Other Things
for City Folks.
Jim Flynn, battle-scarred veteran
of the roped square, who has done
more real fighting In thirteen years,
received more punishment and inflict-
Jim Flynn.
ed more than probably any pugilist of
recent years, is still In the thick of
combat and ready to box anyone, any
time, any place.
In spite of the fact that Flynn has
not been very successful against
heavyweights of class, and that he Is
no longer a contender for the title,
winning or losing he fights like a
wounded wildcat every time he enters
the ring. I
Flynn, whose family name Is An-;)
drew Haymes, was born in Hoboken
thirty-three years ago, and is begin
ning to think seriously of providing
for that period of life when he will no
longer be able to swap punches with
the young and husky heavies of a new
generation. -
"If the managers would give mo
what 1 am worth at a box-office at
traction," said he, "I would sron have
a nice bank roll. But they don't d it.
"Oh, yes, I have earned enough a
H stands to have a nest egg, but I
tossed n away like John L. did. But
I'm going to reform. I'm going to lay
by something and buy a farm, so that
when I get old I can just ait around
and watch the hay grow.
"Yep, I am going to settle down
and raise wheat, corn, potatoes and
other things the city folks have to
boy from the farmers.
"You needn't laugh, lor I'm going
to do it, b'gosh."
Compel Players to ?ay fine.
President Gaffney of the Boston
Braves suggests to his fellow National
league club owners that a rule be .
adopted putting a fine of $1,600 pa
any club found guilty of paying tinea
Imposed on players for nse of bad
language. His idea is that the pen.
altles should be taken from the play,
era salaries. Whether Gaffney's
stand Is evidence that he has fallen
out with John Evers or not Is left to
the reader's own judgment
Navy Has Good Fullback.
Navy has in Von Helmburg, a plebe,
the making of one of the best full
backs in the country.
UTTLE PIOIIB
- 0T5POET -
The . Brookfeils are to train at
Brown's Wells, Miss.
"Blue laws" In New Haven are cer
tainly rough on Yale athletes.
That Culebra slide sems to give
Colonol Goethals as much trouble as
Ty Cobb's slldo gives second base
men. The highest score on record In a
football game this year Is credited to
I'.stacada uigh, Wisconsin, which beat
Milwaukee high 162 to 0. More scores
of over one hundred have been reg
istered by big colleges than ever be
fore in a single season.
Jku Shaw, Washington pitcher, who
accidentally shot himself in the neck
while hunting, is In a Pittsburgh hos
pital and physicians say he will prob
ably recover.
Changes in fencing rules place &
time limit on saber and fell bouts,
but we are not going to allow our
selves to become unduly agitated by
this piece of news.
Christy Mathewson, with an amat
Ing show of broadmlndedness and
charity, admitted in a Ascent article
that .umpires approximated human beings.
