HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
Mvlin fcanle nmes (state bills) S615
Jv
NC
y
V
J MH4n nBm 4 2 L Xafdonales bills 17
-4 ?arranza currency E Bar silver (Handy
i Harmon quotations) btft lpper .--JSS:
73 Grains lower Livestock steady
Stocks higher.
'latest news by associated press.
People Tell Of Hardships
Aboard Ship Thessaloni
. i; Food, Water Scarce.
rASSERT CAPTAIN
PROVED STUBBORN
b Declare He Refused To Call
Aid When Asfed By
r Officers and Crew.
NEW YORK. Jan. 7. The 1T7 pas
sengers who -were forced to
aoandon the sinking Greek
steamship Thessaloniki at sea, arrived
here today on the steamer Patris, of
the same line, and gave vivid descrip
tions of the hardships they suffered
during the five "weeks that the Thes
saJoniki was battered by a series of
tcrnric gate.
On Christmas day, passengers said,
the supply of meat on the Tessaloniki
was entirely exhausted, only a few gal
lons of wafer were left and the ship's
off cers began to portion out short ra
tions of the meager supply of food
which remained.
Springs Leak In. Hurricane.
The Thessaloniki first sprung a leak
when ehe encountered a hurricane
which raged for 12 hours- on Decem
ber 21.
."apt GouIandi3,saiUi.Jia4 1ecn uc"
able to make &Tr'0'DSdrVatl'ms by rea
son of the almost continuous storms
and it was for this reason, he adde'd,
that h sent out erroneous messages
rcra-d.ng the position of his vessel. He
was making his first voyage as a mas
tt'. Refused to Call Aid.
The captain repeatedly refused to
set d out wireless calls for help at the
behest of both crew and passengers,
according tc William "William, a natur
alized citizen of the United States, who
was a nassenger returning from
Crcce. William said:
The Thessaloniki left Piraeus No
vember 16. On December 21 the first
severe storm came up and the first
tre passengers know there was any
tbi ig amiss was when all the crew was
c-uered below to work on something
fiat had gone wrong. Many passen
gers became alarmed and on December
.- when the Italian liner Stampalia
was sighted, several of them went to
tie captain and asked that they be
t-ansferred. He assured them that ev
erything was all right and that they
vi ould arrive In Kew Tork on time.
That storm lasted more than 12 hours.
Life Boat Swept Away.
"On December "6 another storm came
i p une of the life boats was swept
ifjT, Several passengers and mem
bers of the crew went to the captain
aid asked that calls by wireless for aid
e sent out. He was indignant, saylpf?
he was. running the ship and knew his
easiness, and refused to send out any
call.
"First Officer Sends Calls.
"Later all the officers and crew, ex
cept the first engineer and two sailors,
demanded that the captain send out
messages. He refused and the first of
ficer then sent out the calls.
"When the FlorSzel came In sight on
Friday we were living on short ratioi.s
and half a cup of water a day. We
ad had nt. meat for two weeks, al
though, there were vegetables and
bread.
Ship Finally Abandoned.
"When the Patris came up on De-
ember 31 the captain and a few men
v. ent to the other ship. He brought
back 10 casks of water and a supply
of meat. All this time the vessel was
leaking badly, but the captain seemed'
determined to take his ship and pas
sengers to New Tork.
"On New Neat's day, however, he
save up hope and the passengers were
ti ansferred to the Patrls."
EMBASSY SECRETARY QUITS.
Home. Italy. Jan. 7. Ralph W. Hills,
'a. secretary of the American embassy
here, has resigned for personal rea
sons. He expects to leave shortly for
the RIviers.
Don't Miss
The Diary of a Siren
TOMORROW she tells of her troubles all this week, including the song
that's been "wrote" about her; what happened when she went to Dr.
Overstreet's church last Sunday; her advjeg. to the young Elk and
Kotaxian who had "the grip" the day after NewTi ear's day; her experiences
with her sisterinlaw and the crush she has on a young El Paso real estate man
and builder. ,
It is all deliriously funny and is written by King W. Lardner, the author
of -The Busher' stories m the Saturday Evening Post. All the people in the
diary are El Paso people. Last week John Dyer, Joe Heid, Charlie Stovens
and a lot of them "got theirV and this week some more of the well known
El Pasoans will be "written up."
Clare is "some writer" when it comes to keeping a diary. You will want
to read what she says every week if you start. She is a "typist," she says,
and she lives "out in Government Hill, near Fred KnollenbergjvWiIl AVinch
and Bert Orndorff.-' She is going to chronicle the things thatuaily come
into hex life, regularly every week for the Week-End Herald, Don't miss it.
(Triumphal
EL
SINGLE COPT
amine
- ' ; - .
The War At a Glance
A BRITISH submarine was
sunk Thursday off the Dutch
coast. The admiralty an
nouncement of the sinking does
not state the cause or give the
name of the submarine. The en
tire crew of 53 "were rescued.
Previous statements that no
warning was given the liner Fersia
and the blow that sent her to the
bottom came from an unseen source,
are confirmed in affidavits from
21 survivors obtained by United
States consul Garrels at Alexan
dria. The consul So advised the
state department today ,
Ambassador Penfield cabled from
Vienna that the Austro-Hungarian
government up to Thursday was
without advices regarding the sink
ing of the Persia.
Serb to Join Sew Army
A Rome dispatch says Servian
refugees by the thousands are
flocking to the Servian legation and
the various consulates in Italy
with requests that they be per
mitted to join a new army In an
effort with the help of Servia's al
lies, to win back their country.
Little "War News
There is no indication in official "
reports or news dispatches of
marked activity on any of the war
fronts except along the line in the
east from Volhnia, southward to
Bessarabia.
II II STOP.
STKlTil
Militia May Be Dispatched
to the Scene of Disorders i
Where 6000 Are Idle.
Toungstown, ,D.. Jan, I. Because fit J
strike rioting Thursday mghoennillfco-i
dy at tneplant of the ToungstowH
Sheet and Tube company in East
Youngstown. sheriff J. IX Umstead tele
graphed to Gov. "Willis at Columbus to
day to Inquire whether state troops
were available in case they were need
ed to preserve order. The sheriff, how
ever, expressed the belief that he would
not need troops to control the situation.
Gov. Willis replied that he had dis
patched Brig. Gen. Speaks of Colum
bus and Lieut- CoL Weybrecht, of Alli
ance to Younsstown and ordered them
to have as many companies as possible
of the Ohio national guard ready for
strike duty.
C0O0 Men Idle.
The situation at the plant of the Re
public Iron and Steel company, where
2590 men are on strike and 6000 idle
as a result, remained unchanged today.
Last night strikers threatened to at
tack the office building but -were dis
persed by the police.
Refuse Small Increase.
Both plants are independents and are
not affected by the announcement of
the United States Steel corporation yes
terday that all employes would get an
increase in wages of 10 percent. The
managements of both concerns have of
fered the employes an advance of three
cents an hour from 19 1-2 to 22 1-3
cents, but the strikers have refused, in
sisting on 25 cents
rAn. uema t-.. fir!A Tinnrtrprt
armed men today attacked and looted
me uninese customs nuu&e vn iuo
boundary of Kowloon. The men de
scribed themselves as revolutionaries.
Further trouble Is expected here at
.... iM., i fa fenlfaYrpiTI the rebels
have corrupted the government troops.
rne autnoruies oi m uiiyuiw vi
Sea-Chnen have been advised of the
withdrawal of Christian missionaries
from interior stations.
GARDNER ASSAILS PACIFISTS
AND HYPHENATED AMERICANS
t, .-i . t " Tt 7Ppn.
sentative Garder, Republican, made a
long speech in the nouse tuuaj- rewu
ing war conditions Involving the United
He assailed the pacifists, the hyphe
nated Americans and the cotton, interests.
CHINESE REBELS
LIT CUSTOMS
Arches Will Not Solve Mexico's
PASO
FIVE CENTS.
REVENUE IFF!
IS RAID BI
TIJES
Vault Door Blown Open,
$600 To $5000 Cash Se
cured Besides Stamps.
ROBBERSAPPEAR
WELLJNFORMED
Only Negotiable Revenue
Stamps Are Tafen; Oth
ers Are Not Molested.
ST. PAUL. MINX., Jan. 7. From
$600 to J500O in cash and internal
revenue stamps which may total
$1,000,000 in value, were stolen from the
office of the collector of internal rev
enue Thursday night when the vault
door was blown open. The robbery was
discoverd today by D- C Ryan, a jani
tor. Collector Lynch stated that the rob
bers had carefully taken negotiable
stamps and had left unnegotiable
stamps. Each point checked by federal
agents and police in their investigation
indicate:, that the robbery not only
Was carefully planned and executed,
but that it was committed by individ
uals well informed about the stamps
and the office
El IIS ESSE
'15 BEFIREil
I
New York, Jan. 7 The case against
Wm. Rockefeller and 1 other former
directors of the New York, New Haven
& Hartford railroad, charged with
criminal conspiracy under the Sherman
law. was submitted to the jury today.
William Rockefeller was the only
defendant not in court when judge
Hunt began his remarks. The charge
against the defendants being a mis
demeanor, his presence was not legally
required.
The court instructed the jury that
the case should be considered without
regard to any testimony that wonkl in
dicate 'any attempts to -Influence leg
islation by bribery or corrupt means."
The indictment contained Jio such
charge, he said.
Discussing the Sherman act, he said
that it did not prescribe a limit to ac
quisitions and that large enterprises
may in a certain sense oe perm't'ed to
monopolize commerce. Magnitude of
business was not in itself a violation
of a law.
"The criminal act," he said, "is in
conspiring to restrain freedom of ac
tion and unduly restricting or sup
pressing competition."
The first question for the jury to de
cide, he said, was whether back in 1890
or thereabouts there existed a conspi
racy to monopolize commerce.
M.K.SLT.SPECIAL
TIM DE1LED
Muskogee, Okla., Jan. 7. The Texas
Special." the fastest train on the Mis
souri, Kansas & Texas railroad between
St. Louis and Texas points, went into
the ditc hnear Rentiesville, 20 miles
south of Muskogee, early this morning.
No wires reach the scene of the wreck.
Special trains with physicians have
been sent out from here and from Che
cotah. neport No One llnrt,
Dallas, Tex Jan. 7. Advices to the
general office of the Missouri, Kansas
& Texas railroad here today on the de
railment of the Texas Special at Ren
tiesville, Okla said the engine and
several cars left the rails, but that
no one was injured.
Cigar Factory Girls,
On Slrilie, Bombard
Windows With Icicles
Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Jan. 7. More
than 100 girls, striking for higher
wages, gathered before the cigar fac
tory of Samuel L Davis and company
here today and bombarded the windows
with icicles and similar missiles.
Three of the girls were arrested and
fined Jo each.
REPORT ON VERDI GUNS IS
SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT
Washington. D. C., Jan. 7. Collector I
Malone s report on the Italian liner
Guiseppe Verdi which arrived at New
York yesterday with two guns
mounted was received today by the
treasury department and forwarded to
the state department without being
made public
It is understood collector Malone's
neutrality investigators reported there
were no Italian navy gunners aboard
and that all of the members of the
crew were regularly so.
The state department Is understood
to look with disfavor upon any mer
chant ship entering American ports
with armament.
In
"Ft. PASr. TFXAS. FRIDAV EVENING, JANUARY 7, 1916.
Gale; 177
ETMII1I
AMERICAN LOST ON TORPEDOED SHIP
Vv' Ja-r ' ' .fc-jiifIJiSleJ
Tup Peninsular and Orinetal liner Persia, torpedoed in the Mediterranean with an estimated loss of life- of 330
persons, and Robert Key McNeely. American consul at Aden. Arabia, who was lost when the steamer sank.
- -
E
ON HPULSIOI
"Rr-ttfsh TUeRtimis Onlv-Wav
garding Recruiting. -
London. Eng , Jan. 7. There seems
little doubt that a generaj election may
be the very last measure resorted to
by the government to obtain the de
sired "general consent" to the estab
lishment of the attenuated form of
compulsion provided for in the pending
military service bill.
The Westminster Gazette, emphasiz
ing the fact that only 45 members of
the house of commons, representing
constituencies In Great Britain which
alone are affected by the bill, opposed
the measure, thinks -the minority can
be convinced of the necessity of enact
ing the law. The bill Thursday night
passed Its first reading.
Hostility of the Labor Congress to
the government's measure was uncom
promising and necessitated the resigna
tion from the coalition ministry of all
three labor members, Arthur HenSer
eon, William Brace and George n. Rob
erts, holding respectively the offices of
president of the board of education,
parliamentary under secretary Tor home
affairs and lord commissioner' of the
treasury, and their resignations were
announced Thursday night. They will
remain in parliament.
HOLLAND PREPARING FOR WAR,
THOUGH SHE STILL STAYS OUT
The Hague. Netherlands, Jan. 7. The
fears, early in the war, that Holland
-would be drawn into It sooner or later
have been gradually allayed and now
practically nothing is heard of such a
probability, but preparedness for any
eventuality continues to be a popular
policy. The Dutch Jted Cross Is to be
completely resorganlzed under the su
perintendence of high officials of the
army and navy medical, corps, and
some of the most prominent civilian
medical authorities. There has also
been formed recently a committee of
wealthy Hollanders who are to present
to the government a number of
hospital trains.
Go To Church
Meetings Progressing
Union services of the Protestant
churches will be held tonight in
he First Presbyterian church. Rev.
J. F Williams of the First Baptist
church, preaching the sermon.
The services last night were in
the First Christian church and Rev.
"W. F. Packard of Trinity Methodist
preached the sermon.
Sunday every church will hold its
own service and everybody Is urged
to attend some church.
NOTICE
To Classified Advertisers
Advertisements for insertion in
Classified on the same day cannot
be accepted after l-S0,J-1,n..AI"eI
1 :30 advertisements -trtlf be received
by telephone or otherwise only for
publication the fo",c'w,nf,",Jatt;
rons are respctfully requested to
note this suggestion as it is in the
Intferest of better service to adver
tisers and to te Pf "A "
and a necessary,
UUb -
bltrary, rule
ITM
TE
HERAL
DELIVERED
NS
18151P0ITS TOTAL $9,149,410;
IWm EXPORTS DURING YEAR
OTAI. imports far fce'sear ending
MS: r the custom
house amounted to 19,149,410. "She
Imports for the fiscal year ending June
30, as shown by the custom house books,
amounted to $9,384,626.
The exports for the calendar year
amounted to $6,146,655. For the fiscal
year ending June 30, there was a total
of J7.9S7.S7I
For December. 1913. the imports-
PERSIA CASE IS
BEFORE CABINET
Washington, D. C Jan. 7 The sub
marine crisis, still, of uncertain status
because of lack of details, was placed
by president Wilson before the cabi
net foday In Its first meeting since his
return from Hot Springs. Va.
Although more than a week has
passed since the steamer Persia was
sunk In the Mediterranean with the
loss of American life, officials were
still uninformed as to whether the ves
sel was torpedoed, and if so. the na
tionality of the submarine.
Overnight developments Include the
receipt of dispatches from ambassador
Penfield, at Vienna, asserting that the
Austrian government was without in
formation concerning the incident up
to the night of January 4. and from
consul Garrels, at Alexandria. Egypt,
stating that he had obtained affidavits
from 21 survivors and that all con
firmed previous statements that "no
warning was given and no vessel was
seen."
Feel Some Action Needed.
As the cabinet assembled it was
made plain that the members agreed
with the presleent that in the case of
the Persia nothing could be done until
all the facts were at hand. Some mem
bers expressed the opinion that It
might never be learned whether the
Persia was sunk by a submarine, and
if so what nation was responsible.
Regardless of the outcome of the
Persia case, however, the majority of
the cabinet members are represented
as believing that the time has come
for making certain that no further at
tacks on merchant ships carrying
Americans will be made.
The administration leaders are said
to feel that continued loss of Amer
ican lives will lead the United States
into hostilities.
The Persia incident was taken up
only briefly at the cabinet meeting, be
cause secretary Lansing had no defi
nite recommendations to make in the
absence of specific facts -egardlng the
sinking of the ship.
DERBY RECRUITING PLAN
IS NOT NEEDED IN CANADA
Ottawa, Canada. Jan. 7. The Derby
recruiting plan will not be applied In
Canada, according to an announcement
by Gen. Samuel Hughes, minister of
militia. He said Canada's contingent
or 500,000 men will be completed
without recourse to other than the
present system.
VON PAPEN AT THE HAGUE.
Rotterdam. Hollanc Jan. 7. Capt
Franz von Papen, formerly military at
tache of the German embassy at Wash
ington, debarked from the steamer
Noordam here Thursday and was greet-
l ed by a small party from the German
J legation at The Hague. Capt. von Pa-
nen said h, wr first jroinir to see the
German minister at The Hague, and
tlin nrnM ,ll-l nrrtOArl hnmiTnird
to report the headquarters in Berlin.
BRITISH SUBMARINE SUNK.
London. Eng.. Jan. 7. The sinking of
a British submarine off the coast of
Holland was officially announced to
day. The crew of 23 was saved.
Problems
AJJTWHERE 60 CENTS A MONTH.
Saved
TAMP
amounted to $238.3!t9. Thejlrsp'orfr f or
December. 1914. amounted to JS13.546.
The exports'for December, 1915, totaled
$120,272. December, 1914, showed total
exports amounting to $682,118.
The decrease in the December busi
ness for 1915 over December, 1914," Is!
explained by the fact that the transfer
of authority in Chihuahua from the
Carranza to the Villa government and
the suspens.on of business in northern
Mexico.
RUSSIANS WIN
AT CZAflTDBYSK
London. Eng Jan. 7 According to
official advices from Vienna, the fight
ing on, the eastern front has decreased
in violence.the Russians having ceased
to attack with vigor between the Prl-pet-river,
and the Bessarabrlan fron
tler. The only gain officially an
nounced for the Russians Thursday,
was at Czartorysk. the scene of many
sanguinary struggles, where it is safd
the Austrlans were driven from a cent
etary. Any advance in this region will
threaten Kovel, one of the strongest
Austro-German positions- The Teu
tonic allies still threaten to expel the
French and British from their Mace
donian positions, but no forward move
has been detected thus far in that di
rection. Strong Turkish forces are said to be
concentrating on the Thracian fron
tier 6f Greece, but it Is suggested that
the Turks may attempt to make good
some of the territorial losses they suf
fered during the Balkan wars.
"The Boy Scout
A Story for Old and Young
JIMMIE REEDER, Boy Scout, and" office boy for Carrol and Hastings, did
his daily good turn one August morning by giving to his little sister the
dime he had saved up to take him by trolley car to Hhe Boy Scouts'
camp, for Sadie had longed fenently to see the movies and had not the price.
So Jiramie, walking through the broiling heat, was overtaken by the Young
Man of Wall Street in his road racer. And he gave Jimmie a lift, till Jimmic
remembered that, in riding, he was not making a sacrifice. "Stop!" he com
manded. "I got ter get out. I got ter walk." And the Young Man of Wall
Street, asked, "What is it a bet!" And Jimmie told him about the Scout
law and the one good turn a day, and that it must involve some personal
sacrifice, and how he had given up riding to the camp that his sister Sadie
might go to the movies, and so he must walk and not ride a step farther.
And out of the racing car Jimmie let himself down and waddled away on his
thin legs into the awful heat. And the Young Man of Wall Street remained
there where Jimmie had left him for a long time, thinking. And then he
drove to the nearest telephone and called up Jimmie's senior employer and
said something to hint that saved a business and a life. And the senior part
ner said something to the head clerk that brought joy to the latter and his
wife; and the head clerk said something to his less fortunately situated
broher that brought joy to him and his wife. And the juaior partner said
something to the head bond clerk that brought joy to him and his affianced.
And she said something to her father that caused freedom to find its way
into the heart of the Amazon rubber country, stamping out horrors that had
shocked the civilized world. And thap night, out on Hunter's island, Jimmie
Reeder told Sam Sturgis, his bunkie, that Sammy's rescue of a dog from
drowning was the best one good turn of the day. And then
Modestly Sam shifted the limelight so that it fell upon his bunkie.
But you wouldn't enjoy the story if we tokl you about it.
This is another of the new Richard Harding Davis Short stories and is
fifth of sis purchased by The Herald exclusively for this section. Opening
chapters will appear in the Week-End Herald. It will run just six days.
or Feed the Hungry
WEATHER TORECAST.
El Paso and nest Texas, fair, colder;
New Mexico and Arizona generally lair,
colder.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
Germany Offers Indemnity
For Americans Lost In
Lusilania Tragedy.
WOULD ALTER
WARFARE POLICY.
Properly and Lines Afloat
To Be Belter Safeguarded
Under the New Plan. ,
t XT TASHINGTON, D. C Jan.
T.-
the
A Count von. Bernstorff,
German ambassador, presented
to secretary of; state Lansing today a.
proposal to pay indemnity for Ameri
cans lost In the Lusitania disaster, and
thereby conclude that controversy and
gave assurances that any German sub
marines in. the Mediterraenan would
not attack non-combatant ships of any
character without warning or destroy
them without opportunity for njm
combatants to Jf each, a jjlace of safety.
WhUe Offering to-pay .indemnity in
the Lusitania case. Gexntanjmakes the
reservation that it Is aoae -without ad
mission of wrong doing. No official
indication was given as to the accep
tability of the proposal but one set of
American officials tppk. tl)e view that
It would end the controversy.
The assurances regarding submarine
warfare in the Mediterranean are of
broader scope than those given after
the Arabic disaster and covering th
warfare in the North" sea. The latter
guarantees only the safety of liners.
Those for the Mediterranean cover all
non-combatant ships.
Germans In Mediterranean.
The assurances regarding the con
duct of .submarine warfare in the
Mediterranean convey the first infor
mation that German submarines were
operating there. In excluding all ships
except liners from the assurances cov
ering submarine warfare in the North
sea, the German government was
represented as considering that no
Americans could possibly be aboard
ships other than liners In regular
passenger carrying service.
It's Bernstorffn Plan.
It has been known for some time
that count von Bernstorff had devised
a plan which he believed would satis
factorily end the Lusitania contro
versy. He was understood to have
submitted the proposition to the Ber
lin foreign office before Christmas.
There was some delay because of ad
verse sentiment created by the re
quest for the dismissal of the German
naval and military attaches, and the
demands in the first American note to
Austria-Hungary on the sinking of tha
Italian liner Ancona.
lllnaiovml In Practical Form.
As for the disavowal asked by tha
United States, the German government
was represented as considering that
the most effective form of disavowal
was assurances that such acts should
not be committed in the future. The
assurances regarding the conduct ot
(Continued on pass 9. CoL-L)
