(Mrtnp—ofifl ttynr <1 <1 —
J|piP , k/ )t || Pi FlrSii
fx L L ILv3t
ELEVENTH YEAR, NO. 29.
OUT IT OUT-
It has come to our knowledge that
the board of direc*ors of the Weal
Okanogan Valley Irrigation district
finds their efforts to attract aitention
to the desirability of the district under
the project among prospective settlers
very much hampered by adverse criti
chm on the part of residents of Oro
vlle and vicinity. This is almost unbe
lievable, but it Is c'almed that the di
roiors have evidence that this is a
fat. In every case where men have
fond fault with the physical construc
ts of the ditches and Humes those
erics have been individuals who have
ha no experience in that line of work
an really do not know what they are
idling about. Those who have seen
utlr Irrigation systems and know
wit proper construction is when they
so it. have no hesitancy in declaring
tht the work performed by A. Guthrie
is Qrst class, and will last as
log as that character of construction
ca be expected to hold out, and that
wi be for years. The inauguration of
tb enterprise was such a fortunate
e«u for this part, of the county that
ewy individual having any interest in
tl country should rejoice and lend all
tl assistance in their power to at
tx't attention of homo seekers to the
vantages to be derived from the
oning of land within the irrigation
t-ritory. No man living here is so ig
vant that he does not know that
ihout water the land to be reclaimed
inot worth the faxes levied upon it.
Ith water, it at once has a value, a
lue that is to steadily increase under
k>rovoment. The system that is to
pply the water is as perfect and per
inent as a system could be built for
e money at command- It will do the
>rk expected of It and prove a bless
g to the upper end of the valley. If
ere Is any resident of Orovllle who
plly thinks that the system Is going
be a failure he is a fool for remaln
| < In the country, for failure would
- ove disastrous to the future of Oro
lle. This system means so much for
e town and country that every resi
st should constitute himself and her
lf a booster.
BASKET BALL.
This Friday evening a basket ball
lam representing the Republic high
jdiool will meet the local high school
lam in the high school gym of this
lace. Game called at 8:30. This is go
ig to be e. corking close and exciting
on test, and one well worth seeing, for
he teams are well matched and the I
vlnner will have to keep going at all
periods of the session in order to turn
file trick. Basket ball is a lively and
ixciting sport, and is steadily growing
in popularity in this place. All who can
io so should climb the hill tonight and
cheer on the boys to their best efforts.
While seeing a game worth while the
patrons will be contrlouiting their mite
towards helping along the High School
Athletic association which is deserv
ing of liberal support from the people
of Orovllle-
OFFICERS INSTALLED.
Aurora Lodge, No. 201, F. & A. M., of
this place held a public installation of
officers at the lodge room, in Sigrist
hall, Wednesday evening of last week,
that was largely attended by both men
bers of the lodge, Eastern Stars and
Invited guests. The installing officer
was Grand Lecture) Gifford, assisted
by Geo- Whistler as marshal. The fol
lowing are the new officials: A. C.
Potter, W. M.; W. C. Jones. S. W.; J.
M L. Williams, J. W; G. R. Riste,
Chap.; F. S. Beale, Treas.; A. Vol
igney, Sec.; A. S. Groulx, S. D-; Geo.
J. Whistler, J. D.; A. W Johnston, S.
S-; Jas. Ferguson, J. S. A supper was
served at the close of the ceremonies.
Ice has formed on the dead water
in the rivers to the thickness of from
eight to twelve inches, and Fred Clark
and 1. X. Wickersham commenced this
week getting in the annual harvest. An
enormous quantity of ice is cut and
stored in Oroville every winter and
there will be no reduction in the
amount put up this winter, although
the elimination of eight saloons blots
out the largest consumers- F. Grath
wold, who has supplied the resident
population very largely with this cold
comfort in the good old summer days,
will also cut his usual supply. Judging
from the weather on tap the crop will
be ample this winter to meet all de
mands, and there will be no shortage
of the hot weather luxury next sum
mer.
EASE WELL BOOZE.
A majority of those voting on the
proposition, turned down their thumbs
on election day, i 913 and the new
prohibition law went into effect
at twelve o’clock last Friday night.
At that hour the crowds present, aud
every bar had its contingent, drained
a farewell drink, the proprietors of the
eight bars in Orovllle turned the keys
in tba doors, doused the glims and
retired from business more or less
gracefully, in anticipation of the ne
ceselty of shutting down the owners
of the salons began sloughing off their
stock! prior to the end and every
establishment in town was pretty thor
oughly cleaned out of liquid refresh
ments when it was lime to toll the
bell. Most of tlie supplies were laid in
by laoderuie drinkers, and by families,
tlie members of which do not use
liquor as a beverage, but always keep
soma In the bouse for sickness or for
cooklUf purposes. It will be some time
before the auditor will be called upon
to ime permits, Judging from the way
tlie public is slocked up, at least not
until the reserve supply is exhausted.
Aud, unyhow, it is not expected that
it will be necessary to employ extra
help hi the permit department to meet
the taiand for supplie to alievate
ragtag thirsts.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Mtantes of the meeting of the town
couueU of Orovllle, Washington, Jan
uary I, 1916.
IflUent, Mayor Samson, Council
nien Beale, Friis, Smith
Migutes of the previous meeting
weruread and approved as read.
Rllort of the town treasurer was
read and ordered placed on tile.
R*|ort of the police justice was read
and uu motion was accepted.
Prentice appeared before the
couhU asking that some action be
takui regarding the amending of the
ordlimce controlling the business of
draykg. After some discussion in the
matter the matter was referred to the
ordinance committee
An ordinance in -egard to the sale
of intoxicating liquors was read and
motion was made by Councilman Beale
seconded by Councilman Smith that
the ordinance pass its first and sec
ond readings subject to amendments.
Motion carried.
On motion the following bills were
allowed and ordered paid; E- R. Hoose
salary and supplies $107.20; C. R. Do
ty, salary and bedding, 79.50; C- H.
Neal salary, 25.00; E. E. Efner, salary,
15 00; E. A. McMahan salary, 30.00;
James Ferguson, police justice fees
37.10; John Collins, labor on water
works, 3.60; C. H. Jt'rymire, labor on
water works, 7.30; Frank Harpham,
labor on water works, 2.40; J. W. Sew
ard, labor on water works, 7-20; L.
H. Prentice, drayage. 2.25; Carl Ham
ilton, deputy marshal and election
11.50; James Ferguson, election judge,
4.00; Shaw-Borden, registration books,
10.17; Hughes & Co., supplies for the
water works, 2-16; Oroville Commer
cial Co., Jail supplies, 3.20; Gazette
Publishing Co., printing, 23.40; Stm
ilkameen Power Co., light and power,
105,00.
Ot motion the bills of H. J. Desmond
and’L- Charissmau were laid on the
table and clerk was instructed to in
vestigate the correctness of the bills.
On notion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE. Clerk.
MEETING.
Tie entertainment committee at
Okaiogan, who are in charge of the
banquet and reception of the stockmen
to convene at Okanogan on January
14, innounce, that in order to make it
poskble to provide adequate entertain
ment, It will be necessary to have
reples from all strvekmen intending
to be present on January 14, not later
thus Monday, January 10. All those
who have not sent their acceptance
carte are urged to do so at once, since
plaits at the banquet cannot be guar
anteed to those whose cards are not
in tie hands of the committee on or
befere the 10th of January.
PKKSM YTEBIA>' ( IM Ht 11.
Pleaching morning and evening.
Morning service at 11 o'clock. Subject
of sermon, "The Christianity of Jesus
Chilst.” Evening service at 7:30. Sub
ject of sermon, “Good things in Wrong
Plates." Special music it both services.
Sunday school at 10 o'clock. None is
too young and none is too old to belong
to *ur Sunday school We heartily In
vite you to all of our services.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, JANUARY 7. 19U
BEATS OF AN OLD SETTLES.
Ferdinand Baker better and more
familiarly known as Grandpa Baker, a
pioneer homesteader of the Chesaw
country, died suddenly at bis home on
Friday evening, December 24, at the
advanced age of 78 years- The news
of his death was a sad blow 1 to jhita
many friends and acquaintances in
and around Orovllle, us Mr. Baker was
well known here and had
friends in the community, especially
among the older residents, who speak
of the deceased in terms of deep affec
tion and respect. The following sketch
is taken from the Chesaw News:
"The deceased was born In Cape Cod
Mass., In 1837, being 78 years of age
at the time of his death. At the age
of 15 lie started life as a sailor, mak
ing a complete circuit of the globe on
his first voyage. He followed the sea
for nine years, coming west to Minne
sota, then a virgin frontier laud, be
fore even the first railroad had cross
ed the border into that state. He set
tled near Lake City, Wabash county,
south-east of whore St. Paul and Min
neapolis are now located. He acquired
land and also managed a large farm
for a brother, who also accompanied
him west. It was during his residence
at Lake City that he met and married
Miss Caroline Clark, who came out
from Ohio with her parents and set
tled in Wabash county- His aged wife
survives, together with three sons—
Stanton and Willis, of Chesaw, and
Jesse, of Wahpoton, N. D.; and daugh
ter, Mrs. Rowena Aspenwall, living at
Minot, N. D., but who was visiting at
the home of her parents at the time of
his death.
“During his sojourn in Minnesota,
Mr. Baker was also engaged in the
mercantile business and later had in
terests In the first flour mills in that
state. After 22 years of active life In
that state Mr. Baker moved westward
again to North Dakota, settling near
Wahpet&n, where he lived -IS year#- lu
the fall of 1901, shortly after the
opening of the north half, he settled
on the place of Knob Hill which he
held until his death.”
A FAMILY BOW.
The following item from a recent is
sue of the Spokesman-Review refers to
an Italian family recently living near
and in Oroville. Ambrosio lived for
some time on Geo. Devon’s ranch, near
town. Mr. Devon saj s the family had
considerable trouble with Urso, who
also lived here tor a time, and that he
is not much good anyhow;
"While Seravina Ambrosio of Oro
ville caused her daughter to be arrest
ed yesterday after habeas corpus pro
ceedings were started to prevent the
girl marrying Ben l T, so, Sll2 Spokane
street, the maid declared with em
phasis at the Juvenile court that she
would marry Urso it her mother forc
ed her to wait “a hundred years-”
“The girl was sent to Spokane re
cently by her mother. The Juvenile
court arranged for her to remain with
her sister, Mrs. John Pino, Sll2 Spo
kane street, according to Probation
Officer W. M. V. Winans. The mother
recently heard the girl was about to
marry Urso and ordered the auditor at
Coeur d’Alene to refuse a license.
"She filed a sensational petition yes
terday for a writ of habeas corpus. She
Said her daughter was beiug held a
prisoner and for immoral purposes
and was about to bo taken from the
state by Urso.
"When told by Attorney A- Gagliardi
who represents Mrs. Ambrosio, that he
could marry the girl if he secured a
house and furniture Urso said he
would furnish a home today. The girl
will be given a hearing in the court of
Judge Blake.”
Once in a long time luck hits a mem
ber of the craft. Such incidents do not
often happen and when they do they
attract general attention. Last week
there was a drawing at Okanogan for
a number of valuable prizes, among
them an automobile. Wonder of won
ders, O. H. Woody, publisher of the
Independent, held the number that
drew the car. The Gazette extends
congratulations after recovering from
the surprise that good fortune could
come to any print. Furthermore be it
said, that good fortune could not have
fallen to a more worthy and deserving
scribe in the state
The crew putting in the big siphons
ou the water system managed to ham
mer away ou the job even during the
extreme cold weather. With the mer
cury shaking bauds with zero there is
no pleasure in the work, however.
THE SHOUTING EDITOR BEUABKS.
We can hardly he charged with being
ultra religious, and hence anything
that the Gazette may state on that
subject will be taken with all sinceri
ty. To start with, and the statement
cannot be controverted, residents of
Orovllle are not church going people,
taking them as a whole. None of the
churches are ever so crowded at the
services as to be noticeable. It would
not detract from the moral and mental
well being of the individual members
of the community If they attended ser
vices occasionally, and certainly no
one is ever the worse lor spending an
hour under a church roof.
This preamble merely leads up to
what was intended to be said in ref
erence to the present ministers of the
several churches in Orovllle, and the
ministrations of those ministers is a
special reason why church attend.-
ance might be conductive of pleasure.
Just, at the present time the churches
are presided over by as likeable a body
of members of Ihe cloth as ever filled
pulpits in such c small place. This Is
not a reflection upon the ministry of
the past. There have been good men In
this field before, yet it must be said
that as a whole the present sky pilots
are collectively a shade the best in
many respects that have ever Inter
preted the teachings of the Prince of
Peace In this place. They are alto
gether human, they are broad minded,
they are sincere Christians without be
ing obtrusive, they are genial, kindly,
courteous gentlemen. They prove by
their appearance and dally intercourse
with their fellow men that it is not
necessary to wear a long, stern, mo
rose face, eschew all Innocent pleas
ures and cram hell-fire and brimstone
down the throats of casual acquaint
ances in order to fight the devil and all
his works- They are able men in the
pulpit, as well as manly men among
their friends and neighbors, and such
Tr-"* entitled to encouragement and
support. If you do not know them, get
to know them, and you will feel glad
that you know them. As a brand we
wish to testify to their personal worth;
we could not do It more sincerely If we
were one >f the elect.
CHANGE OF FIRM.
As was announced some weeks ago
lin advance, the old time mercantile
firm of Frank Bartell & Co., dissolved
and went out of business on the first
of the new year. The old firm was com
posed of Frank Bartell, Sr, George
Bartell and Frank Bartell, Jr., father
and sons. They have been identified
with the business life of Oroville fur
a number of years and have made a
decided success from a financial point
of view- The fact that the firm has
disintrigated does not mean that the
old and familiar stand is to be closed
up. The senior member of the firm will
take over and handle the large stock of
agricultural implements that was car
ried as a side line. George Bartell will
devote his entire attention to bis mov
ing picture show, the Orpheum, and
pushing sales of Studebaker automo
biles and trucks, he having the agency
of the county for the Studebaker mo
tors, acknowledged to be the equal of
the very best in use. Frank Bartell, Jr.,
will take over and run the store exclu
sively by himself. Cutting out hardware
Mr. Bartell will carry groceries, dry
goods, shoes and clc thing- The recent
special sales cut down the old stock
enormously, and the new proprietor
will put in a full assortment of new
goods. Mr. Bartell knows every phase
of the business from his long experi
ence behind the counter and has a wide
acquaintanceship among the people of
Oroville and the surrounding country,
so that he does not take over the busi
ness as a novice. He is a genial and
popular young man, ard undoubtedly
do well as the sole proprietor of the
old premises. If close attention to busi
ness and treating the public right will
win out in the merchandising business,
Mr. Bartell will make a winner.
METROPOLITAN AIRS
For the first time In the history of
Oroville a light opera company will
appear at a local play house on Mon
day, January 17, presenting the catchy
musical comedy, "The Girl from No
where." The company numbers some
twenty people and plays only the lar
ger cities- It gives a one night stand
in so small a place as Oroville simply
because the troupe has to remain over
one night in town tdie while en route
to Seattle. The attraction, owing to its
novelty, should draw from all the
surrounding country as well as from
the town.
SCHOOL ENTERTAIN ME ft T.
Next Wednesday evening an enter
tainment by the pupils of the public
school, which was to have been given
in December, will take place in the
Orpbeum, aud that large auditorium
should be crowded to its capacity on
this occasion. Those who are to take
part have been practicing and rehears
ing diligently for weeks and have their
several assignments letter perfect. En
tertainments given by tlie school in the
past have been most enjoyable affairs
and the one ucx. Tuesday evening will
be equal to the best the school has ever
given. Moreover, the entertainment is
for the benefit of the High School Ath
letic association, aud if for no other
reason it should bo generously patronl
- However, the p'eaaure that is as
sured i-j all who atto id will bo ample
returns on the small investment to
satlsy everybody. The following is ihe
program:
KHOQHAM.
AXuhlc under the direction of rtosetla M.
Murray.
liiHlrumenuU--
i’iano Helen Grlcger
Vlolln Theodore Johnson
Warren Mallory
Solo—"Harmony” Lawrence Hullani
"The Queen of Hearts” —A Farce In one
act in which an absent preacher makes
good.
(Direction of Pauline Davis. )
CAST.
Mrs. Millington—"The Queen of Hearts,"
Bernice Desmond.
Sofy—"Who Listens” Alice Shaw-
Major Tuckle—An antiquated suitor
Thodore Johnson
Mon. Jon Bindle—Attorney at Law ....
Garland duel
The Owl, Duck, Parrot and Crow—
Harlan Fuller Tenor
Dora Cole Soprano
Hermtne Grioger Alto
Lawrence Dallam Bass
"Sympathy"—
Dora Cole, Lawrence Dallam
Solo Hermlno Grleget
"Miss Orovllle Entertains.”—
Until Dunham Miss Orovllle
Lofraine Bartell The Maid
James Calahan, Lawrence Dallam
Charlie Cole, Aubrey McMahan
Suitors
O. P. R. A.—
Frank Ford Tenor
.Elizabeth Murray Soprano
Hermlne Qrlager Alto
Harlan Fuller ........ Bass
The Girl and the Undergraduate"—
in which the college widow loses out
(Direction of Cora L. Smith. 1
CAST
Horace Latham—professor of matne
matlcs Charlie Cole
Guy Montgomery Watts, —Professor of
literature Harlow Fuller
Jack Standish,—a Junior Joe Ashby
Ted Latham, —a freshman
Aubrey McMahan
Harold Gray—the "undergraduate”
Lawrence Dallam
Mrs. Flora Darcy—a facinating widow..
Dora Cub-
Sylvia Latham—the girl, Elizabeth Murray
"Because You rs You,” —
Elizabeth Murray, Lawrence Dallam
Finale—
LOOMIS NOTES.
Mr- aud Mrs. W. H. McChesney aud
Mr. aud Mrs. Webb Hurley left for
Spokane last Friday, traveling by auto.
A party of Loomis friends drove
down to Mrs. Umbarger’s home, on
Palmer lake and gave Mrs. Umberger
aud daughter last Friday evening a
very pleasant surprise. The evening
was spent at cards aud music and the
self-constituted guests had a merry
time.
Mrs. Thompson, of Spokane, mother
of Mrs, H- W. Cbampneys, is visiting
with her daughter this week.
Mr. Marshall, the man who pur
chased the tungsten mine, has return
ed from Seattle and has a force of
men surveying a road to the mine.
Marvin Chase, of Richmond Beach,
president of the Whitestone Power and
irrigation company, is visiting with
\V. S. Douglass this week.
It has been snowing here for the
past twenty-four hours and the pros
pects are favorable for the heaviest
snow of the season.
Mrs. T- P. McNeil is visiting with
her daughter, Mrs. Grover Fore, at
Okanogan.
The Odd Fellows ball, given new
year’s eve, was well attended and a
great success in evwy way.
The school teachers have all return
ed from their holiday vacation, and
school started up again Monday in
full blast.
It is reported that the infant daugh
ter of Roy Guyton, living on White
stone Flat, has the diphtheria.
Mrs. W. H- McDaniel gave a party at
her home last Thursday evening in
honor of her daughter, Grace, who is
home on a vacation from Pullman
where she is going to school. Every
body In attendance had a most delight
ful time.
The infant daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
B. F. Gubser died Friday night- The
child had been sick tor some months
and it is not known lust what caused
its death.
Jude Hearteau, an old timer of Con
conully, died Frida’' night. It is re
ported that grip was the cause of
death.
SOME WE AIDER.
Monday was one of tbe most dlsa
greoablc days that has been exper
en< ed in Orovllle tor a number of
years. Tbe visitation took on the
shape of a miniature blizzard, and to be
out in it tor any length of time was a
severe punishment. The wind rushed
down from the west through tbe gap
in tlie hills formed by tbe Slmilka
meen river, carrylnv : fine snow and
the Hakes were whipped through the
air with stinging force, forming solid
drifts- When the wind blows In this
valley old Boreas Is on the lob in
earnest. There is no half way measure
about it. and the supply of rapidly cir
culating air is seldom exhausted in
less than 24 hours, and three days are
tlie usual limit. During Monday ther
mometers did not register very low,
around IS and 20 above, but tbe cutting
wind felt as though the chill was that
many degrees below. There is consld*
erable diversity in the reports as to
the cold registered Monday night.
Some claim that the mercury reached
eight below zero at 2 o'clock Tuesday
morning and others three below. It
was about zero at 6 o’clock Tuesday
morning and ti above at 8 o’clock. The
temperature very materially moder
ated during the day. This is not very
cold in comparison with other parts
of the county and state, but cold
enough, and colder than it usually gets
during the winter at this place.
WARNING TO FOREIGNERS.
U. Qreiger returned home Saturday
evening from Chicago after an absence
of two weeks, where be was called by
the death of a brother. As a souvenir
of his trip Mr. Grelger brought home
a severe cold, which has kept him con
fined to the bouse since hia arrival-
Friday, be spent in Spokane, and meet
ing a reporter of the Spokesman Re
view gave him the following interest
ing information relative to foreigners
traveling through Canadian territory:
‘‘Unless persons of German or Aus
trian descent who plan to come from
Republic and Oroville through Cana
dian territory—the usual route — are
warned, they may And themselves In
volved in serious difficulties,” said R.
Greiger of Oroville. when seen at the
Pacific hotel yesterday.
"My attention was called to this
situation on my trip out from Oroville
a few days ago. Just before reaching
Laurier, In Canadian territory, an im
migration inspector stood up at the
end of each car and warned all Ger
mans and Austrians who Intended to
come from Republic or Oroville
through Canadian territory that should
they attempt to return by the same
route they would be halted at the Can
adian line or only allowed to proceed
by making arrangements at great ex
pense for a special couvoy.
“I realize that under present condi
tions a state of war existing the Can
adian authorities feel compelled to
take all possible precautions, which T
do not presume to criticize. I merely
desire to warn all Gormans and Aus
trians who intend to make trips to or
from Oroville or Republic that they
should avoid traveling through Can
adian territory, hut Instead come by
the way of Wenatchee, and return the
same way.”
Tonight the Repuhiic and Orovllle
high school lads tangle up in a basket
hull game. It is going to bo some game,
too. If you enjoy exciting sport, be
there. Your presence and necessary
contribution to permit your presence
will help the locals to put in their best
licks, for there is nothing like side
line rooting to put ginger in the play
ers.
Every business house in town
should be represented in the columns
of the Gazette. Advertising is a great
aid to business, and if every line car
ried space in the Gazette outsiders
would more readily realize the size
of the place and the extent of busi
ness done. At the same time it would
help the Gazette. iMake a note of this
and act accordingly.
Drunkenness has wholly disappeared
in this place, where it has been alto
gether too common of recent mouths,
since the prohibition law wont into ef
fect. If there is any drunkenness the
drinkers do not disgrace themselves
and disgust the public by appearing on
the streets.
There has been considerable snow In
this part of the valley so far this win
ter, yet very little sleighing. Strange
to say only a few miles down the val
ley sleighing has been prime for weeks.
tI.M PBB TSAR
