lie
fifwltiatoti
liwe.
VOL. 4
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1916.
NO 51.
k
MISSOURI'S BIG SHOWING
Sy W. L. Nelson, Assistant Secret ary
Missouri State Board of Agricul
ture. Figures Used in Compari
son are From United States
Department of Agriculture.
and at the great market centers.
Some Corn and Wheat Comparisons
Because the Eastern press has with
few exceptions failed to do justice to
Missouri, the following figures are
submitted :
During the 10-year period, 1905-14,
the Missouri corn yield amounted to
2,039,168,000 bushels; the Kansas
yield, to 1,456,418,000 bushels, or 682,
750,000 bushels less than Missouri.
Total Missouri corn acreage for the
10-ycar period was 72,617,000; Kan
sas acreage, 74,351,000, or 1,734,000
acres more than Missouri.
Kansas, with an acreage for the 10
year period more than a million and
a half greater than that planted to
corn in Missouri, fell short more than
a half million bushels.
But isn't Kansas a wheat wonder?
Yes, during the 10-year period refer
red to Kansas grew 852,238,000 bush
els of wheat; Missouri 309,802,000
bushels, or 542,580,000 less than Kan
sas. But note the difference in acre
age, and keep in mind the corn com
parisons! Instead of the largest yield coining
from the fewest number of acres, as
was the case with corn, the Kansas
wheat acreage for the decade was 59,.
824,000; Missouri wheat acreage, 21,
804,000, or 38,020,000 less than Kan
sas. In order to grow slightly more than
half a billion bushels more of wheat
than was grown in Missouri, Kansas,
during the decade, seeded 38,000.000
more acres.
During this 10-year period (1905
14) the combined corn and wheat pro.
duction of Missouri was 2,348,070,000
bushels; the combined corn and wheat
production of Kansas, 2,308,800,000
bushels, or 40,170,000 bushels less than
that of Missouri.
The Missouri acreage of both wheat
and corn for the 10-ycar period was
94,421,000; Kansas acreage, 134,175,
000, or 39,754,000 acres more than
Missouri.
Pact's Spread the Story, Let's Strut.
Missourians have too long looked
.award other lands as places of prom
ise, when, in fact, the end of the rain
iow is on the old home farm, where
S hidden the fabled pot of gold.
Not a One-Crop State
Missouri is not a one-crop State
And no Missouri farmer need put all
Ms eggs in one basket. Neither Nor
thern nor Southern State, but located
n the very center of the agricultural
universe, Missouri, of all the States,
M alone able to give employment to
noth cotton pickers and ice hands. The
United States Department of Agricul
ture reports 1915 Missouri crop yields
.ia follows: Corn, 209,000,000 bushels;
wheat, 34,100,000 bushels; oats, 31,
W0.000 bushels; barley, 125,000; rye,
,538,000 bushels, flax seed, 48,000 bush
els; potatoes, 8,820,000 bushels; sweet
potatoes, 700,000 bushels; hay, 4,640,
ilOO tons; tobacco, 3, 150,000 tbs.; cot
.on, 52,000 bales. These crops are val
ued at more than $200,000,000. Then
here arc poultry, dairy, apiary and
timber products, whose values mount
into the millions. In addition are
ninor crops and by-products, from
sunflower seed to cob pipes. Of the
Matter the "Missouri Meerschaum"
we manufacture more than 25,000,000,
r enough to enable all fighting Eu
npe to smoke the pipe of peace.
Why "Co West," Young Man?
In past years many good but mis
guided Missourians, mistaking a mi
rage in the desert for the promised
land, have gone West or Southwest.
But why should they have gone?
Greeley's advice is no longer good.
Missouri has more bluegrass the
ffrass that stands for permanent farm
ing and .soil fertility thun iA'f rown
in all the States to bur West.
Missouri has more milch cows than
Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma or any
Wetern State; more sheep than any
State that borders her; more hogs
than any State in the Union, save two,
..n neither of them to the west.
In Agriculture, First at Frisco
At the Panahia-Paeific Exposition,
v.hich recently closed at San Francis--o,Missouri
won the Medal of Honor
awarded for general agricultural ex
nibit and the grand prize for. installa
tion, in addition to 17 gold medals, 21
silver medals, 15 bronze medals and
two honorable mentions.
First in Fruit
From apples to persimmons and
pawpaws, Missouri was nrat at Fris
co. Missouri's horticultural exhibit
vas awarded the Medal of Honor, and
in number of medals won Missouri
was second only to California for
:'ruit. At this same great intcrna
Jonal exposition Missouri was award
ed more medals on apples than were
von by any other State or country.
With two great apple regions, the
Ozarks and the loose soil districts
Missouri not only produces apples of
:uality but apples in quantity.
Missouri's 1915 apple crop consist
ed of 6,287,000 barrels. Only New
York harvested a larger crop. The
iowa yield was 3,220,000 barrels;
Nebraska 1,267,000 barrels; Kansas
u125,000 barrels; Arkansas 1,183,-
'.100 barrels, and that of the much
heralded apple state of Washington,
2,433,000 barrels.
Nor arc apples all! With the an
ual peach production from one lit
tle district alone amounting to 1,000
carloads, with a strawberry crop of
ialf a thousand carloads from an.
other group of counties, and with
"ruits of various kinds on practically
every farm, Missouri is, of all the
Mississippi Valley States, first in
.'ruit.
A Leader in I'oultry Production
Missouri is uk urst poultry state Tne see0nd annual show of the
,n the Union, figured cither in pounds : Dunklin County Poultry Association
or premiums. The value of Missou- js holding forth this week, in the Jones
i's surplus poultry products is now block on the south side of the square,
in this city. The show is far ahead
of anything of the kind ever attempted
WHERE THE BEST OF
WAGONS ARE MADE
LA GUIANNE
An Enterprise of Which This Com
munity Has Every Reason to
Feel Proud
surprised, after seeing the splendid
material used, as well as the skillful
workmanship employed, that they
can supply the demand for their pro
duct from their present plant.
It may be there are other residents
of Farmington, besides our informant,
who are not aware that there is such
a manufacturing plant in this city.
If there art any such, we would sug-
buying gest that it would lie time well cm-
Let it be remembered , ployed for them to make a visit to
Lang Bros. Mfg. Plant. It would not
only prove to be enlightening, but al
so instructive and edifying.
We fortunately fell into the hands
of W. S. Miller, a most skillful me
chanic, who kindly took us throuo-h
EVERY FARM IS A FACTORY
The Breeders Gazette of Chicago
presents the important fact that
"every farm is a factory", and insist-;
that the people who live in the towns
should show their appreciation of th
same, and editorially says:
"Occasionally it may be advisabl
for a town to offer a bonus for a fac
tory or other business, but wise is
the town that bewares of
"gold bricks.
that every farm is a factory. The lo
cation is fixed. This fact too often
prevents these farm factories from
sharing in inducements such as are
held out to factories whose location
has been made subject to the highest
bid. Within a few miles of every
town in a good agricultural region
there could be selected one hundred
farms whose business is or should be
worth more to the town than the or
dinary factory. Many towns have
guaranteed as much as $25,000 to se
cure the location of a factory and
have found the investment a good one.
The farmer neither asks nor receives
a bonus, yet if he could move his
farm his plant near some other
trading point, and if he contemplated
doing so, the home town might pos
sibly hold out inducements to retain
the enterprise
Once an ordinary factory is located
the town becomes interested in its
output, and if the goods find a profit
able market the capacity of the plant
is almost sure to be enlarged. This
means more business for the town.
Farms are factories. The town that
adds to farm efficiency adds to its
own trade. It is therefore worth
while for the town to aid in the pro
motion of better agriculture; to help
spread the gospel of better seed and
betetr soil; to impress the importance
of added bushels rather than added
acres; to encourage the building of
the silo, and to increase the practice
of trap-nesting bossy as well as bid-dy.
On recently locating here The Times
editor understood that there was no
manufacturing establishments in
Farmington. We thought nothing of
this, as such is the general condition
in communities of 3,000 to 5,000 peo
ple, in counties as populous as St.
Francois county.
However, we have already discover
ed that such information was not en
tirely correct, as we have already
ferreted out one manufacturing es
tablishment of which this community
should feel justly proud. It employs
about fifteen skilled mechanics, occu
pies about a block of ground, which
is well covered with machine shops
and lumber sheds.
Lang Bros. Mfg, & Merc. Co. is
the subject of this article, which is
located on East Columbia street.
Here is made everything that goes
into one of the finest farm wagone
that is anywhere made, except the
hubs and spokes. The wood of the
running gear is made of the finest
hickory that grows, while the bed is
made of white oak, practically all of
which is native lumber.
An initial visit through this plant
would surprise anyone at its magni
tude the large number of buildings
filled with machinery, or piled to the
roof with the finest lumber that grows,
all of which is used in the production
of the Lang Bros. Farm Wagons. But
even now they are crowded for space,
and another large brick building is
being erected for relief of the
congested conditions there.
ITL. "i. . 1LI
ine capacity oi tnis plant, tunning
at full capacity, is considerable, so
there can be no question but that
Lang Bros'. Wagons have quite an
extensive market. But after a visit
Old Ste. Genevieve Society, Over 100
Years Old, Enjoys its Annual
Celebration.
GEEAT BIG QUESTION
FOR FARMINGTON
Upon Its Prompt and Correct Settle
ment May Depend the Future
Good and Well Being of this
Community.
Over in Stc. Genevieve, for a hun
dred years or more, on New Year's
Eve., they have a celebration called
La Guianne. The literal translation I Ordinarily this would not appeal to
would be "A glad year," and it ush- ayne as the proper season of the
era in a new year with fun and frolic. yar 10 attempt to start an agitation
When the weather permits the mem- for better sanitary regulations, as
bers go from place to place singing there is no apparent necessity for
their songs. This year the inclement such improvement just now.
weather prevented many visits. A But, 011 the other hand, there ap-
choir of six young men dressed as Pear8 to be considerable grounds for
pages, led the singing, while all the the theory that this is the best possi-
members joined in in the chorus. A D'e t'me to attempt to sir up renew-
banquet ends the festival, and if there et' inerest in the question of muni
waa anything not on the menu it was c'Pal sewerage for Farmington.
because there was no room for it. I Such agitation should precede, if
During the banquet songs were sung possible, the period when the thing
and speeches made. Many of the most desired will be most needed. The
guests were in costumes, a number of Times might wait until the heat of
them being colonial dress. Among lne summer season is in full blast be
these were Francis Papin, aged 93 "ore mentioning Farmington's crying
years, who sang a solo; Seph Thomure need for sewerage, but what good pur-
WEEK'S SOCIAL AFFAIRS
Miss Nan Gardner entertained her
dancing class very pleasantly in an
informal way Thursday night.
Mrs. A. O. Nichols was hostess at
a buffet supper Friday night in hon
or of her house guest, Miss Stella
Drum, of St. Louis. The guests later
went down to the Club rooms and
danced. Those present were Misses
Bess Noland, Ann Butterfield, Nan
Gardner, Dr. and Mrs. Frank Weber,
Messrs. Fred Butterfield, Bryan For
ster, Leslie Mitchell, Stanton MeClin
tock and Henry Giessing.
aged 86; Jules Dctchmendy, aged 71;
Elois Jardin, Cephroid Morice and
Jules Papin, all over 60. The menu
card itself was a gem of the printer's
art, each one having the name of the
guest printed on it. The motto which
completed the card was
"Good, happy New Year.
Perfect Health,
And Paradise
After the end of our days."
The membership of LaGuianne is
limited to 85, and there is a waiting
list now of 4",. One of the uleasant
features of the banquet was the sing
ing of Mr. Jasper Morice, who has a
fine tenor voice. Mr. Edward A. Ro
zier of Farmington and his son, Car
lisle, wore guests at the celebration
last Fi iday night.
NAVY DFSERTER ARRESTED
City Marshall1' rank Highley on Mon
to this plant one is more apt to be i y ariosted Hem' ' Lahunendier,
ceeimr lh nln.l;,l 1 He"1 ? y('arB- ul the h0I" " "'S f'-
ther, Naric Lahunendier, in this city,
on t,ie charge of being a deserter
from the U .S. Navy, in which Lah
unendicr had served four years, and
the desertion is charged up to his
second enlistment. The young man
did not deny the charge, but gave as
his reason for quitting the service that
it had become entirely too strenuous
in multiplied duties.
Marshal Highley telegraphed navil
authorities at Washington that he had
lahunendier under arrest here, nnd
asked for instructions as to what dis
posal he should make of him. The
reply was that he should take the :le
scitor to Norfolk, Va., for winch tup
much of the immense plant and made : lu' wouW 1,0 supplied with trnnsporta-
himself most agreeable. i tion for one and 0,1 delivery of Lah-
unenilier there he would be paid $50,
pose would that serve?
It appears to this paper that the
very best time to bring this matter to
the attention of its readers is right
now, when there is nothing else of
special urgency attracting attention,
and when they can view in a dispas
sionate manner how best to handle
this matter, that may mean, before
next summer passes, the health even
tne nie oi many citizens ol this community.
When one has any information as
to how many septic cess pools
there are, in all parts of the city, is it
at all difficult, think you, that such
pools might, when the water becomes
excessively warm, cradle or even
create a deadly epjidemic?
It is practirally impossible, during
the summer season, to exercise exces
sive precautions in regard to the
health of a community. While it is a
Another enjoyable Vffair Friday
night was the progressive fraternity
dinner party of the Phi Gamma Del
tas. The party beean with an ova.
ter course at Paul Jones', then went
to Miss Marion Giessing's and Miss
Lavinia Rozier'g for tl, meat and sal
ad courses, ending with Miss Pauline
Byington for the final course, after
which they joined the dancers at the
Club rooms. The tables at each house
were beautifully decorated with the
color of the fraternity, which is royal
purple, as were also the place cards
and favors. Those of the parly were
Misses Lavinia Rozier, Pauline Bying
ton, Marion Giessing, Lelia Suhre,
Messrs. Hugh and Myers lvfayberry,
George Giessing and Paul Jones.
The dance given by the Youno-
i Men's Club New Year's night was a
most delightful one. The rooms wore
decorated with Christmas colors, and
the Bar ti Orchestra furnished the
i
The most delightful bridge party
of the season was given Wednesday
afternoon by Mrs. Edward A. Rozier.
Those present were Mesdames Will
Lang, Frank Weber, A. O. Nichola,
Robert Forsyth, Cumpbell, Hugh Por-
fact, that must be apparent to even a i """"V
casual ohservev ,w t.t,,ml,n . J her W. T. Halle. J. C. Morrie. M.
almost ideally situated in regard to L " "s""1 RodwiK. J-
.Nntith Wi ...... t . w
natural'.conditions of health, the fact I Z. , ' "sses ue
afuw .VVm real. ., thorn it T " ' vui-ot-
7 . ' town
may not appear to oe so apparent,
CAUGHT "BOOTLEGGING
Prosecuting Attorney Davis has
filed information against Lon Flor
ence, the young druggist of Desloge,
for selling intoxicants in violation of
the local option law. It appears that
he has been for some time suspicion-
ed of selling liquor and some parties
decided to smoke him out. They fur
nished the money and got Wm. Bucks
ton to go to the drug store to buy the
liquor. This was on December 24th,
and he brought two quarts of whis
key and paid for it. Then S. P.
Motherhead and Spurgeon Ditch gave
the information to Prosecuting At
torney as prosecuting witnesses. The
case against Florence will be brought
up at the February term of the Cir
cuit Court.
Lon is a young man, just starting
out in life, and this ought to be a les
son to teach him that it is more pro
fitable to ran his business legitimate
ly than to buck against the law and
public opinion. That sort of thing
may be hidden for awhile, but in the
which is the standing reward lor de
serters.
The Marshal carefully figured out
what this trip would mean to him in
the way of expense, under such an ar
rangement by which he would be
compelled to pay for passage of
prisoner to Norfolk, and other nec
essary expenses, and found that if
he could play even on the proposition
he would be lucky. He therefore, tel
egraphed the Washington authorities
that he would deliver the deserter to
the enlistment station in St. Louis,
but would take him no farther, for the
$50 reward, and that if he failed to
hear from them within twenty-four
hours, he would turn the prisoner
loose.
Having failed to receive a satis
factory response, Marshal Highley
yesterday morning turned Lahunen
dier loose, after having paid several
days board for him in jail. The young
man deserted from U. S. S. Ohio. But
the conduct of the Washington author
ities in this instance is certainly a
severe indictment of that particular
department. It would appear that
long run- is sure to be found out and
doesn't pay, for it is calculated to idea of those in charge of naval
hurt his business among those cus- mutters there believe that all private
tomers who did not approve of law violation.
estimated at more than $50,000,000
nmnilllt
Missouri a Leader in Live Stock
As a live stock State, Missouri's po
Hion is one of strength. She breeds
ind feeds live stock and, in turn, her
.ields are fed. While other States
srreat in grain growing sell their sub
stance and rob their soil, Missouri
vdves.
Missouri is second to no State in
numbers and quality of registered an-
i:tials, and second to none in records zens of the
i ,ade in public sales, at national shows Democrat.
in this section in a good many re
spects; and it appears that the limit
has been reached in this class of ex
hibitions. There are 294 chickens on
exhibition, in addition to a number of
turkeys, geese and ducks; and the
out-of-county birds out number those
owned by citizens of the county, 10;
the number from out or the county
being 152 and those entered by citi-
county,
CHANGE IN THE NKWS
There is a rumor to the effect that
Mr. Clint H. Denman has recently re
tired from the management of the
Farmington News Printing Co. If
this report is correct, as we have rca.
son to believe it is, Mr. Harry Denman
will doubtless hereafter have sole ed
itorial control of that paper.
As to what Mr. Clint Denmr.n ex
pects to engage in for the future, we
have not been informed, but whatever
it may be, The Times wishes for him
much success. We also wish for The
142. Keunett News continued success under the
j management of Mr. Harry Denman.
citizens are expected to tender their
services in such matters without fee
or reward, possibly with the hope that
their salaries for such splendid serv
ices as they appear to be rendering,
may in no wise be diminished, and
perhaps take on a few more to help
them out in their arduour task of
"arresting deserters."
ffuoHtfl were Mrs. Paul Leminir.
HT .... aa rt i
that a trood svstem of .,., 1"c,e nancer, Mrs. Felix
would throw around this community ! S'-, Sel'l'S' MrS'
almost incomprehensible safeguards ! Jr' ,Wa,de' M,'s' Finnin Hi,ile Mrs.
to the health of the citizenship of haS' Adami MrS'
this community. LT Thom. Mrs. John McCor-
The Times cannot but feel that the ; mlck and Miss Stcvens-
people of this city are now ready to
take up and dispose of this matter
now, if it is brought to their atten
tion, In the right way, and impressed
with the urgent need for a speedy
solution of the matter. In ense some
might urge as an excuse to evade
prompt, action on such an important
matter, that there is no place for an
outlet for such a sewer, we will say i
such a claim is untenable. It could
be tinned into one immense cess pool,
as far removed from human habita
tion as possible. Would that not be
a vast improvement over the present
system of perforating the entire city's
in nl r-i nn ivitt, nntratn (ucn.nnnl a 7
This is a matter of surpassing im-i " v "' V , ' ' SU"'
portanro, in which every inhabitant j ' W0U'd "P unde'
is vitally interested-consciously or ! the vision of the Executive Corn
unconsciously. Every citizen owes it dUr,nB the eomine year. a Pa""t
to himself to think carefully and se. j hich amount will come to the lo-
riously along this line. It is a fact,, a" '
which cannot be successfully gain-! lne "deral Lead Company, or its
said, that Farmington must, some- i P"6" ead' the American Smelting
time, have a public sewerage. Then i f"d RcfinlnK Company, has caught
whv not now in order tht tho nnl I th! SPlnt f the timeS. in which
now here may have the benefit of its ! ealthY corporations are showing
FEDERAL LEAD CO.
SHOWS APPRECIATION
OF ITS EMPLOYES
All federal Lead Company em
ployes who were employed through
out 1915, and who had not been par
ticipating in the lb per cent bonus,
received substantial checks at the
close of the year from the American
Smelting and Refining Company.
The local management was also ad
vised that the company had inereancd
its pension fund from $500,000 to
$600,000, and that in addition to the
amounts already expended in welfare
purifying tendencies?
their appreciation of the labor which
Think this over carfully, and we be-! Produces their wealth, and people of.
lieve you will soon be in favor of a
bond issue for constructing a sewerage
system for Farmington.
A WORTHY YOUNG MAN
large means all over the country are
learning the lesson that they are but
the stewards of wealth and are be
stowing it in liberal sums for many'
good and admirable purposes. It is
a good sign when men show their ap
preciation of the fact that each "is
his brother's keeper."
THAT BOND DAMAGE SUIT
C. E. Wood, a most worthy and 1
highly respected Farmington young !
man, has accepted the position of ;
assistant cashier of the St. Francois j The case of Sterling P. Bond, a St.
County Bank, beginning on his new j Louis lawyer, against L. H. Williams,
duties the first of the year. Mr. Wood ( B. H. Marbury and others, is set for
has had considerable valuable bank-1 trial in Division No. 1 of the St. Louis
ing experience, having had two years' i Circuit Court next Monday. The
service in the Merchants Ameri- grievance of which Bond comnlaines
can Bank of St. Louis, and later was , grew out of the resentment of some
employed two and one-half years in 1 of the defendants to the former's
the Merchants National Bank, of abusive language in the McBrien trial
Portland, Ore. I last spring.
He is splendidly qualified for his ; The following are some of the wit
new duties, being most accommodat-; nesses in the case: Francis A. Ben
ing and affable, always pleased to at-; ham, Thos. H. Stam, Judge K. W.
tend the wants of customers. Judge Weber. Dr. Frank Weber. Jn.
December 31, Harry B. Walker and j J. D. Mitchell, President of the Bank, Croke and Shelt Horn.
Miss Nellie May Herod of Desloge. J has recently been pressed into service,
January 3, L. Coleman of Elvins and
Miss Florence AuBuchon of Flat Riv
er. 6th, D. A. Adams and Miss Lillie M.
Miller of Coffman.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
to assist cashier J. J. Roberts, owing; "There is," one eminent writer has
to the constantly increasing business observed, "more than one way to kill
ot tnat institution, lhis congested I a cat." Buck Kilbv. t.Wsfor.,
condition has been relieved by Mr.
Wood.
sug
gests that all of the various methods
be employed. '
. ..
