HE BARRE DAILY TIM
VOL. XIX-NO. 251.
BAKltE, VERMONT, FJUDAV, .JANUARY 7, 1916.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
rm
ES
LOST OFF COAST
OF HOLLAND
British Submarine Was
Sunk Near the Island
of Trexel
CONSCRIPTION WINS
DECIDED TRIUMPH
WHOLE CREW RESCUED
BY DUTCH CRUISER
The 33 Men Were Then Tak
en into Dutch Port
ofHelder
London, Jan. 7. The sinking of
British submarine, the name of which
was not given, near the Island of Trexel,
off the coast of Holland, is officially an
nouncod. The entire crew, numbering 33
men, was rescued by a Dutch cruiser and
taken into the Dutch port of Ilelder.
RUSSIANS TAKE
NEW POSITION
AT CZARTORYSK
Austrian Are Said to Hare Been Driven
from the Cemetery Vienna State
meat Say Russian Attack Has
Materially Lessened in
Vigor.
London, Jan. 7. According to official
advices from Vienna, the fighting on the
eastern front has decreased in violence,
the Russians having ceased to attack
with v hror between l'npet and the lies
sarabian frontier. The only gain official-,
ly announced for the Russians yesterday
was at Czartorysk, the scene of many
sanguinary struggles, where it is said the
Austnans were driven irom the ceme
tery.
Any advance in this region will threat
en Kovel, one of the strongest Austro
German positions. It is believed that
. even though no further gain should be
made the Russian forces have attained a
position which will give the nation a de
gree of power in Balkans affairs that it
has not had since its armies were driven
back from the Carpathians.
The Teutonic allies still threaten to
expel tho French and British from their
Macedonian positions, but no forward
movement has been detected thus far in
that direction.
Strong Turkish forces are said to be
concentrating on the Thracion frontier
of Greece and it is suggested that the
Turks may attempt to make good some
of the territorial losses they suffered
during the Balkan wars.
CHINESE REBELS
ON LOOTING BENT
Bill Passed First Reading in House of
Commons by Vote of 403 to 105
Great Enthusiasm Shown.
London, Jan. 7. Amid scenes of wild
enthusiasm the House of Commons last
night passed the first reading of the gov
ernment bill for compulsory military
service by the decisive vote of 403 to 105,
The vote came shortly before mid
night, with the galleries again packed,
every seat on the floor of the House
occupied, the ministerial benches tilled,
and an air of eager expectancy prevail
ing. The events of the day had in
creased the tension to a high pitch, no
tably the action of the labor congress
and the quick sequel of the retirement
of three lubor members of the minis
try. A. J. Balfour, first lord of the ad
miralty, closed the debate in behalf of
the government in a persuasive appeal
of half an hour, which turned the tide
of adversity that had been running
steadily against the measures through
tho debate and the outside events of
the day.
"Let this vote to-night show that we
are a united people, wbh fits closing
appeal. "Do not let us give a false im
pression to the world that in the mo
ment of the country's gravest emergen
cy we are divided one against the other.
Abandon your abstract theories and re
member we are dealing with stern real
ities which call for great sacrifices."
Then came the vote, which was taken
amid eager interest as the members filed
betore the tellers. The announcement
of the figures was received with a tre
mendous outburst 61" cheering.
Scores of members in kliaki waved
their handkerchiefs, and the air was rent
with white papers fiying in triumph at
the government's success.
Amid the demonstration, Premier As-
quith, his face glowing with satisfac
tion, walked down the lloor of the House
to present the bill formally to the cham
ber. His appearance was the signal for
a rapturous ovation.
An analysis of the vote showed that
AFFIDAVITS
COINCIDE
MAPLE SUGAR MEN
AT BRATTLEBORO
In Statement That No Warn
ing Was Given to the
Steamship Persia
21
SURVIVORS
WERE PUT ON OATH
Austro-Hungarian Govern-
inov,. To-norant of Case
Till Thursday
Washington, D. C, Jan. 7. Consul
Garrels at Alexandria, Egypt, to-dny ad
vised the state department that he had
secured affidavits from 21 survivors of
the steamship Persia, including Charles
II. Grant, an American citize 1, and that
all confirmed the previous statements
that no warning was given and no ves
sel was seen.
The Austro-Iluncarian government un
til yesterday was without information
concerning the sinking of the Persia, ac
cording to a dispatch to-day to tne state
department from Ambassador Penfield at
V leniin.
The officers and crew of the Persia,
Consul Carrels suid, Iiave left Alexandria
for England, where their affidavits prob
ably will be obtained.
MONTPELIER
Apollo Club Elects Dr. K. L. Cleaves as
President.
we government naa new tne great nunc Ti,e annu8i nM?otjng and election of
01 tne nnerai ana conservative vote, iiie officerg of the Apollo club for the year
n, wuKiumui !.u ensuing was held fast evening in the
bill, but the Irish unionists supported t.iubs rooms in the Langdon block. The
the measure, and the O'Brienites took nol0iMra -.l.osen follow: Dr. K L. Cleaves.
part in the division. president: Henry Farwell, vice-president:
the minority showed a sprinkling of ,Tarru, T Kahm. secretary: Claire Tern-
liberul members, the most notable being ,,ton. treasurer: board of mnnairers.
John Burns, the former cabinet member. Harry Shurtleff, Stanley Jaynu, Fred
Mr. Balfour's closing speech was the ! Wilson, Harry Hull and" George Ander
one notable feature of the debate. Hejg()n y,th the exception of the vice
spoke with great earnestness, but with m-esident the offices were filled bv the
good natured confidence, which kept the gam(! members luftt year. One new mem
niemuers oetween appiaube anu laugmer. l)(,r( Orville X. Kew, was admitted to
1 his measure, lie declared, was not I membership. The date for the next nool
designed to settle the military policy of ; billiard and whist tournament with the
Great Britain. It was for the present
occasion and the present war.
AN APPEAL BY-ELECTION.
May
i
Follow Passing of Compulsory
Service BilL
Vincitia club of Barre will lie fixed soon
and will probably be held the last of the
month.
The. Capital City Bowling league sea
son was opened last evening at the
School street alleys by the Clerks defeat
ing tho Spanish-Italians three straight
games, capturing all four points, and a
London, Jan. 7 The question on every
lp at the political rendezvous clubs , leaeue record was broken in the second
last night was whether the momentous !Bame when the winninir team toppled the
events of the day had brought a gen- J pins for a total of 541. Last year's best
oral election within sight. An appeal! mark was 52!), net up in the "last game,
to the country and a break-up of both : Parrv was high sinirle-strliur man with
the coalition government and the labor j 128 and Reamcs, w ith .KM), captured the
Attacked Customs House at Knowloon,
China, and Further Trouble is
Expected at Canton at
. Any Time.
Canton, China, (Thursday) Jan. 7.
One hundred armed men to-day attacked
and looted a Chinese customs house at
Knowloon. 'Further trouble is expected
here at any time, as it is believed the
rebels have corrupted the government
troops. Dispatches from Shanghai say
the authorities of the province of Sze
Cliuen have been advised of the with
drawal of Christian missionaries from
the interior stations.
TO REGAIN THEIR COUNTRY.
Thousands of Serbian Refugees in Italy
Apply to Enter New Serbian Army.
Rome, Jan. 7. Thousands of Serbian
refugees are presenting themselves at the
Serbian legation and consulates in Italy
to request that they be incorporated in
a new army to fight with the allies in
an effort to win back their country.
FORD PEACE PARTY ON
WAY TO THE HAGUE
on
Left Copenhagen on Special Train
Which the Cars Will Be Sealed
While Passing Through
Germany.
Copenhagen, via London, Jan. 7. The
Ford peace party left to-day for The
Hague on board a special train, which
the German officials granted permission
to pass through dermanv sealed
party will le on ijrman soil 11 hours.
RAIDS IN LICENSE CITY.
party are contingencies of the near fu
ture, and while the government has se
cured what in ordinary circumstances
would be regarded as a satisfactory ma
jority, 2!)8, for its bill the defection of
a large section of the labor party, with ;
the loss of four members of the govern
ment, admittedly places the government
in a critical condition, and. many doubts
are expressed that it will succeed in
weathering the storm.
Or AlNED PAN-AMERICAN PLANy
President Wilson Explained Proposals to
South and Central America.
Washington, I). C, Jan. 7. The Unit
ed States government's Pan-American
policy was revealed in detail by Presi
dent Wilson last night in an address be-
for the second Pan-American scientific
congress. lie" explained the proposals
submitted to South and Central Ameri
can diplomats here last week by Sec
retary Lansing as a basis for an effec
tive agreement between all the republics
of the western hemisphere, "not only tor
international peace of America, but the
domestic peace of America."
This program, as outlined by the pres
ident, proposes that the American na
tions liail:
Unite in guaranteeing to each other
absolute political independence and ter
ritorial integrity.
Agree to settle all pending boundary
disputes as soon as possible by amicable
process.
Agree to handle all disputes arising
among them by patient, impartial in
vestigation and to settle them by arbi
tration.
Agree that no revolutionary expedi
tion shall b? outfitted against, or sup
plies for revolutionists shipped to neigh
boring states.
"These are very practical suggestions."
. isaid the president, "and I for my part
M-ueie milt, mry tare coiiij( 10 lenu me
way to something that America has
prayed for for many generations."
Expansion of Monroe Doctrine.
He said the Monroe doctrine always
had been and always would be main
tained by the United States on its own
authority, but that the doctrine did not
three-string total honors.
The score:
Clerks.
Parry no 128
Richards 97 112
Martin PI ftl
Reames 8S 120
Ilackwell 102 00
74 202
80 2S9
00 272
02 300
10ft 2!)8
Listen to Suggestions of Various Speak
ers and Hear That Membership of
Association Is Being
Kept Up.
Urattleboro, Jan. 7. With an attend
ance of about 75, the Vermont Maplo
Sugar .Makers association opened its 2.'ld
nnnual meeting here lasV night. It will
continue through to-night, with ad
dresses and business sessions in the
Brooks house and an exhibition of maple
products and sugar-making utensils in
Festival hall. This is the first meeting
the association ever held in Biattleboro.
President Horton 1). Walker of the
Rrattleboro Board of Trade made the
address of welcome, to which George W.
Smile of Fairfield responded. Mr. Walk
er urged the sugar makers to advertise
constantly and never to put the Vermont
label on anything that was not of the
highest quality.
State Commissioner of Agriculture F..
S. Brigham of St. Albans gave an ad
dress on "Building Up a Market for Ver
mont's Maple Products," and State For
ester Austin F. Hawei of Burlington
gave a stereopticon lecture on "Utiliza
tion of the Sugar Maplo."
After tho address of the president,
A. A. Carlotnn of West Newbury, this
morning, a prominent feature of the
program was the report of the secretary,
II. it. Chapin of Middlesex. Mr, Chapm
said the organization was the result of
a suggestion made by C. D. Whitman of
Urattleboro at the Vermont Dairymen's
association meeting in Morrisville 23
years ago. He thought it fitting to come
to the home town of him who might
properly be regarded as the father of the
association.
During the year just ended there were
341 paid members. This is more than
double the number two years ago and
nearly double the nnmber of a year ago.
One man in the northern part of the
state added 70 to the membership roll.
Approximately oO.notl of the association
sugar and syrup labels were sent out in
the year 1915, i
"One suggestion I would like to make
along the lines of educating producers in
improved methods of production of a fino
line of goods," said Mr. Chapin in clos
ing, "is that the state or government.
through the university extension service,'
establish in some favorable location, pos
sibly in some of the state forent pre
serves, a maple sugar school, or perhaps
several such schools in different places,
fully equipped with all modern appli
ances and with competent instructors.
that the various problems that confront
the sugar makers may be explained and
illustrated as are the dairying problems
The importance of the industry would
seem to warrant such action.
Addresses on "Co-operative Marketing
of Maple Products," by V, I. Spear of
Randolph, nnd "Raising the Quality,
lowering the total ' Production and In
creasing the Totnl Output of Maplo
Goods," by L. L. ook of Cambridge
closed the morning session? "
ELEVATOR
TOOK A LIFE
Wright A. Chesley, 20, Was
Fatally Injured in the St.
Johnsbury Postoffice
WAS A CARRIER
ON R. F. D. ROUTE
It Is Supposed Young Man
Pulled Wrong Rope and
Elevator Shot Up
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 7. Wright A
Chesley, aged 20, a rural mail carrier,
was fatally crushed in the elevator at
the postoltice this morning just as he
was starting out to deliver mail on his
route He died an hour after being re
leased and taken to his home.
The accident happened at 8 o'clock
and Chesley was alone on the floor of
postoffice at the time. The supposition
is that Le reached through the door
of the elevator cage, thinking to go
to the basement and there start out
on his route, and that he pulied the
wrong rojie, resulting in the elevator
shooting upward. Chesley was caught
by the elevator cage and carried up
ward and against the floor above with
great force.
The victim's groans were heard by
PLEASANT DANCING PARTY
Given by Ladies of the Universalist
Church Last Evening.
The annual dunce given by the ladies
of tho Universalist church in Ilowlund
hall lust evening was well attended, 73
couples being on the floor and many
more present who bought concert tickets
oniy. j ne nan wa ciecorateu wnn vari
colored lights, with special decoration of
evergreens and crepe paper for the stage
Card tables were placed in the corners
for those who did not desire to dance,
and a refreshment booth, presided over
bv the ladies, was well patronized.
Before the dancing began a short con
cert program was given, consisting of
selections by the orcnestra, rngnmnu
dancing by Miss Gertrude Thompson;
tenor solos by Lotus Bame of Montpe
lierj and alto solos by Mrs. Isabclle
Cantley Hall. Professor Wlieaton ac
comnanied the soloists.
At the close of the concert the floor
was cleared and dancing to music fur
nished by Carroll's orchestra was enjoyed
until midnight. Old-fashioned dances
nnd leap-year dances were introduced
from time to time among tho newer
steps.
The committee in charge of the affair
consisted of Mrs. C. C. Kenvon, Mrs.
C. W. Steele, Mrs. A. K. Campbell, Miss
Gertrude Slayton and Miss Glynora
Gould. Mrs. Harry McNeil had charge
of the punch and wafer booth and was
assisted by Misses Shirley McNeil, Rach
el Hollister and Marjory Love. The la
dies wish to thank all who assisted them
in making the dance a success.
MRS. CATHERINE RYAN.
Died To-day at the Home of Her Daugh
ter, Mrs. Frank Rooney.
Mrs. Catherine Ryan passed away at
the home of her daughter, Mrs. Frank
llooney, 10 Laurel street, at 3:25 o'clock
this morning, the end being due to a
general breakdown. Mrs. Ryan had been
AN OLD FIRM
IN NEW PLANT
C. W. McMillan & Son In
stalled in Fine Stoneshed
on Blackwell Street
MODERN EQUIPMENT
OF MANY KINDS
Operations Will Be Started
in the New Building
Next Monday
Typical of many practicable' i'A'
tlOtl
merits in modern stoneshed
is the attractive new p. sc : oianufac
Assistant Postmaster Walter Kellogg confined to her bed for the past five
WARNING TO "HYPHENS."
Rizzozzero
Pivcda. , .
Truba
Citrini ...
Facini
4(58 541
Spanish-Italians.
70 81
81
80
70
73
93
87
!
80
4221451
Off 250
77 251
. 85 258
88 217
70 2112
.180 400 4251214
The Independerits-Tenney game, which
was scheduled for the other alleys, was
postponed until Saturday evening be
cause of the Tenney bowlers being en
gaged in repair work.
Richard Morehouse, arrested Wednes
day evening on a w-arrant issued by
Grand Juror Theriault, charying him with
intoxication, appeared in city court latel)Hr lw.st to carrv out the prec.,..)ts 0
jcsT.er.iay ait-moon berore .Midge liar- the reat f(.tiKr of olir cmlIlfr.. ;pnrirn
To Revere America First or Get Off the
Face of the Earth.
New York, Jan. 7. An invitation to
"hyphenated citizens" who put the in
terests of their native country before
those of America to "get off th face of
the earth" was issued here yesterday by
Lnited States .fudge Henry D. Clayton
of Alabama. Judge Clayton's remarks
were made in addressing the grand jury
which was empanelled to resume the
investigation into the activity of Ger
man agents in this country.
"You gentlemen," he said, "are enter
ing upon jour duties as American citi
zens. If any of j-ou have had the mis
fortune to be born in a foreign country
1 hope that 'ou can truthfully say now
that you love America mew than the
land of your birth. I have no sympathy
with any naturalized citizen who is given
to carping criticism of his government
or who cannot sjr that he loves Amen
ca tint, hist and forever. If any citizen
has come here from another country to
evade military service Jet him not criti
cise our intitij.-jns here. If he de
sires to do so let him get off the face
of the earth or go baik and fight for
the country from whence he came
"We do not care what foreigners or
foreign nations think of our methods o
government. At prexent we are doing
who investigated and found the body
wedged over the elevator cage. As soon
as the man was removed he was taken
to his home on Lafayette street and
Dr. W. J. Aldrich was called. The in
jured man was then unconscious but he
regained consciousness and talked a
short time with his relatives, but soon
sank to death.
He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harry
A. Chesley and leaves, besides his par
ents, one sister, Hazel M. Chesley. He
had been working as regular carric
during the past year, succeeding his fa
ther in the service. Prior to that the
young man had been a substitute. He
was a graduate of St. Johnsbury acud
emy and was greatly interested in ath
let ics,
VERDICT OF $687.80
WAS AFFIRMED
In Case of Florence Ford Rogers vs. John
W. W. Bigelow, Trespass Case
Coming from Orange County
Court.
Officers Broke Up Two Parties in Rut
land Last Night.
Rutland. Jar.. 7. Two Italian card
parties w'.th copius refreshments of beer, j disclose what attitude the United States
in bottles and direct from the wood, I would assume towards other nations of
were interrupted laot .night by a raid-j the hemisphere, and in consequence the
ing party armed with senrt-b warrants other nations had been distrustful of it.
iwiied bv State's Attorney C. V. I'oulin. ! Knthusiastic applaus from the dele
As a result of the raids Joseph Foti of ge greeted the president's remarks.
!vuth street and Mrs. Alplionse Cioffi An excursion to Mount Vernon and
of Howe street passed the night in the selection of Lima, Peru, as the meet
county jail. i'nK I'lace for the next congress in 1!21
The raiding party included, besiJes ! occupied the delegates during the day.
State's Attornev Poulin, Deputy Sher- I "
iff. Pascsl Kicc'i. 1). A. Barber of this KAISER CALLED MUCH BETTER,
citv and P. IL Patten of Wet Rutland.)
At the Ci'fn house ten foreigners were , Berlin Says Reports of Hia Serious Ill-
found pitying cards and at this hoiiM, J nest Were Unfounded.
. . ! t ...M V.. . L ..II .
To smaller kegs were found togetherl
f i t .k i one more reiterated to-day that' th
,re raided, but at neither rl.ee did th. Patent stories .ncerning tU rH..
o.T..r .r evidence whA warranted '""T ,.f EI- W..U and een
am arrt lhl d,",,h 'r hdutely unfounded an 1
j emanated in unreliable and irre;nible
jnews ikources outside of CJermanr.
Arthur K. Bu?He returned j e.terd.iy j The emr-ror is reevivering rapidlr frr.ni
Immh a few days' iit in tH northern a minor ii.'nes and ba be it out reo-t-j-rt
cf state. ly.
vey and paid a fine of $5 and costs
amounting with the fine to $12.37. More
house, it was alleged, had lieen making
a disturbance for several days at his
home on East Liberty street.
In prolmte court to-dav Herbert I.
Houghton of Cabot settled his account
as administrator of the estate of Mary
L. Houghton, late of Cabot.
The condition of J. O. W. Oalaise. who
submitted to an operation at Henton
hospital several days ago, is improving.
Transporting two big transformers
from the Oranitevillc sub-station to
this city, one of the Tenney company
teams in charge of Myron Hill tipped
over near the Valley View farm on the
Ilarrc road late yesterday afternoon.
causing some delay to the traction com
pany s cars and making much extra lalwir
for the company employe. The sleigh
turned turtle alongside of tne car traek
so that the transformers, wliiidi have
lieen replaced nt (Jrnniteville by htrsrer
ones, landed squarely on the track. The
trolley company sent out a third ear ss
soon as the carbarn employes were made
aware of the trouble and passengers
ere carried by the transformers.
The race committee of the Capital City
Driving club met lat evening in the
Hoard of Trade rooms in the city hall
and arranged for the following rlasw
for the r.rt meet of the season on the
river, providing, however, that the city
council looks unfavorably upon the ix'ti".
tion presented by F. J. Marshall and
others to prohibit the srrnpinit of tl-e
ice: Green race, with a blanket, bells
and a whip for the prize; colt raee,
four years old or jounger, same prize;
.1 . - i : . 1 . . .
tin, wiui a pure oj fj.i. Ihe
committee aluo adopted a plan to circu
late a petition asking the wuncil to al
low the erjing of the ire as in years
pst and tin will be pr.-oented "next
Wednesday evening. It is hie that
there will rt be t nie to trerare the
course for Saturday, hot in tt event, if
crspirg i- aHowed. the e,t w !I occur
pr"!hiy t!ie following V,:n--lv.
IV fore referee Theriault a rur rg
w le.i IhUjv in IHe matter t t
II. Howell
U ashuigton, bv keeping our mind
strictly on our own business and avoid
ing entangling alliances or by meddling
in the atiairs or f.uropean nations."
The grand jurors will continue the in
quirj- into strikes in munitions plants
ana explosions m lactones and shit!
yards, which has already .rtulted In the
indictment of tongressman Frank Bu
chanan of Illinois and seven others.
DIED AT HIS DESK.
Charles M. Knapp, New York Newspaper
Man, Had Apoplexy.
New York, Jan. 7. Charles Melbourne
Knapp, formerly editor and publisher of
the M. Iuis Republic, who became
treasurer of the ew lork Times com
pany last Monday, died of apoplexy yes
terday afternoon while seated at his
desk in his office in the Times build
ing. Les than ten minutes before he
had been in conversation w ith associates
and apparently was in the bett of health.
.Mr. Knapp, who w.is (18 years old, had
been connected for 4 years with the St.
I-oiiib Kepiiblic, winch was owned by
Ins father, and Ins uncle before he sue
ceedeil them in control of the property.
Announcement of his retirement from
that paper was made on December 24
last.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Jame Sipnorclli, a clerk employed in
the Ked t'n pharmacy, received a let
ter this morning from Dr. Lm-edo An-
Ireola. a former I'.srre ldirsirian. who
left the city lat tVtolier to join a party
of Italian reerit" ea il inir from New
Vork for Italy. At pr.-s.-nt Dr. Andreolt
i ittinii n? a cl tuc at the University
of Naples, where the Italian government
h a--eu.M,. a nurnlx-r of medical men
with the idea of K',"1lf them special
training for d'lty at t;ie front. The
course I to at wveral weeks, a'-cord-
Py taking final adjournment just be
fore 10 o'clock this forenoon, the Ver
mont supreme court established a record
for a short January term, having been
in session less than four full days, dur
ing which time but three cases were ar
gued, the cases being State vs. James
Utson Webb, State vs. Lucy eston
and State vs. Wesley JSorth.
Court devoted yesterday afternoon to
going over the entire docket and many
cases which have been pending for many
terms 'were finally disposed of bv entries
of settled and discontinued or dismissed
The brief term augurs well for a busy
February term and it is believed that
attorneys who were not prepared to ar
gue their cases listed for hearing this
term will be readj- so that business will
not be held up.
This morning before adjournment was
taken an entry of judgment affirmed
without costs in the highest court was
made in the Orange county case of Flor
ence ford Jfogerss vs. John vv. . Biire
low, trespass. The lower court rave the
plaintiff a verdict to recover $(187.80.
It. D. Martin, exr., vs. H. H. Becman
et al, foreclosure, Chittenden county, was
entered discontinued.
In the Windsor county case. Max Levy,
by his guardian, vs. Springfield Printing
company, exceptions were waived and
judgment affirmed bj' stipulation.
THREW OUT MOTION
To Set Aside Order for Appointment of
Auditor in Deavitt-Corry Case.
Judge Waterman in Washington coun
ty court yesterday afternoon announced
that he had refused to consider the mo
tion made bv Hurry C. ShnrtiefV, coun
sel for Frank M. Corry, which was ar
gued Tuesday morning, to set aside the
order appointing Koger W. Hurlburd as
auditor of the accounts of the defendant
concerning the relations of Mr. Corry
and Edward 11. Deavitt.
Mr. Deavitt sonic time ago brought
suit against Mr. Corry for $25,000, to
secure an accounting, alleging that the
defendant had acted as receiver of monev
for the firm of Coiry-Deavitt-Frost when
the sale of stock had been made to the
Tenney company and that he (Deavitt)
md been unable to secure a reasonable
accounting from Mr. Corry.
The court decided that the defendant
had had ample opportunity to appear;
that the order of the court in naminir
Mr. Htilburd was regular and that the
auditor named was a fair man and that
because of these facts the motion to
trike off the judgment of accounts was
lenied.
Thia morning the case of Wright Man
ufacturing company vs. Eastern Fruit 4
Nut Ochard company, which was com
menced yesterday afternoon, was again
aken up.
The case of Mitchell (Aslant of Lanes-
boro vs. George W. Heath of Wal.len,
general assumpsit, has been entered. The i
mount sued for 1 $700.
years, blie. moved irom bouth riyegate
to Barre 21 years ago and had lived
with her daughter for the past seven
years. Her first marriage was to Timo
they Sheehan of Montreal and of this
union three children survive. Mrs. Par
ker of British Columbia and Mrs. Wal
ter Morrill of Newport, N. IL, and Jerry
Sheehan of Denver, Col. Her second
husband was Daniel Ryan and only one
daughter, Mrs. Kooney, survives. Both
Mrs. Ryan and her second husband were
born in the same district in Ireland. She
was 71 rears old.
Funeral services will be held in St.
Monica's church Sunday afternoon at
2 o'clock, the pastor, Rev. P. M. Mc
Kenna, officiating. It is requested that
flowers be omitted.
BURIAL AT WEST TOPSHAM.
Mrs. Diana Thurston Was Born in That
Town About 80 Years Ago.
A telegram received in Barre to-day
brought tidings of the death of Mrs.
Diana Thurtton, wife of theTlato Ahuon
Thurston, a former resident of Barre,
which occurred at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Edson Blanchard, in
West Somerville, Mass., yesterday. The
remains will be brought to Barre over
the Central Vermont railroad late this
turing plant which has ,:cn completed .
at the corner of Blackwell and Smith
streets for C. W. McMillan &, Son. For
the first time, the plant will be occupied
Monday morning, when business opera
tions on one of the best known stoneshed
sites in the Barre granite belt will gain
new impetus through the introduction
of up-to-date machinery that is housed
iv a building that represents most of
the approved ideas in sanitation, work
ingtnun's comfort and convenience of ar
rangement.
Ground for the new plant was broken
early in October, after carpenters had
finished razing the old shed, the building'
where the late C. W. McMillan, sr., laid
the foundations for the business nearly a
quarter century ago. A. B. Lane con
tracted to erect the building and his
work has been eminently satisfactory.
The structure has wall dimensions of 175
and C2 feet. It displaces a shed of tho
old-fashioned "round" or circular type,
although a section of the original build
ing has been retained and will be in con
stant use. A sizeable annex to the first
office has been built, a covered passage
way connecting the building with tho
plant proper. At the west end of the
main plant is the stock room, through
w-hich is extended a spur of the Central
Vermont railroad, a convenience which
greatly facilitates the handling of all
shipments.
Due to the introduction of the dust re
moving device, it is now possible for tho
surface cutting machines to be installed
within doors. Space has been allotted
to the cutting machines just east of tho
stock room and it is in that section that
the practicability of the dust device is
most appreciated. There is ample room
for cutting operations inside and in plan
ning for the new plant, the owner did ,
not need to sacrifice space for his boiler
rooni) A separate section, partitioned
fromthe cutting section, is on the north
side bf the building, and there are locat
ed the boiler and the motors.
Equipment for the new plant includes
afternoon and taken to the mortuary practically every device that is sought
chapel of A. W. Badger & Co., where by the modern manufacturer. Seven
they will repose until to-morrow. Fu- motors contributing 130 horsepower ara
ncrai services win oe neia m tne cnurcn used. A Ufaisdelf compressor, with a ca
st West lopsham Sunday afternoon at pacity of 450 cubic feet, and a 20-ton
1 o'clock and interment will be made in electric traveling crane have been in
the village cemetery.
Mrs. Thurston was boriDiRna Wells
in West Topsham around 80 years ago.
Her husband, Almon Thurston, died in
Barre in 1910, and shortly afterward
the widow went to Somerville to reside.
stalled. The shed derrick is supplement
ed by a 25-ton yard derrick, which was
a part of the old circular shed equip
ment. The dust removing device was
installed bv the Carlisle-Oale company
and the" Lane Manufacturing company
She is survived by three daughters, Mrs. furnished the electric crane. Indicative
Edson Blanchard, Mrs. Walter Mentzerlof the owner's desire to equip his plant
of Somerville, and Mrs. Frank Snow of I with the most modem devices availablo
Birmingham, Mass. , is the presence of a Phnpnix sand blast
lettering and moulding machine. The
j 1 e . 1. 1:1 1 1
TTFS Ff)J? TWO RFASONS iiieniami lor me concern poiiniiKii worn:
lis served by three polishing wheels, tho
One" to Get Salary Money OtHer for H" A'plV
oviuiuK nuvun &uiyiu;c. pr 10llts the ontire pIant odcquatelv.
Rutland. Jan. 7. A suit for $2,000 W ith their resumption of msnufactur-
against the International Paper company ing operations on a large scale on the
of New York City, brought by Elmer W. ite where the first plant was erected in
Bissell of this citv. was filed in the office 1M2. McMillan A Son are in a good
of County Clark "ll. A. Harman j ester- way to continue the business along tho
day by Attorneys II. W. Moloney and substantial lines laid down by its found-
John S. Dorsev, who appear lor the er. every iaciiuv is ni nana mr lining
laintifT. Service of the paper was ac- full justice to the seemingly limitless
cepted by Attorney E. II. Edgerton, possibilities of ISarre granite and with
counsel for the company. the enlarged opportunities that come
The plaintiff seeks to recover a total witn tne mnming 01 a new manuiacttir
mount of $1,415, which is divided into ing plant, the concern may well look
wo items, one for the work, labor, meas- forward to a period of activity greater
uring and surveying of timber from 1002 than ever before. In the past the firm
to Hill amounting to $1,215 and the has enjoyed tne ennnnence or many men
other of $200, which is for a year and a in the granite memorial field, wholesale
half's board for one man. ana reian, ami as one 01 me oiuer ana
The International company has pur- best known manufacturers of Barre gran-
ased large amounts of pulp from this ite in new quarters, their reputation, it
section of the country and the plaintiff goes without wiving, will be consistently
aims that as its measuring agent he npneia in tneir new quarrers.
has worked for the company and he now
"JACKS" IN JAIL.
I Cam from the Woods to See the Sights
in Banc.
The compelling call of the "settle
ments is luring many woodsmen out or
the lumber camps these davs and here in
central Vermont mont of those who are
seized with the January wanderlust steer
ttempts to collect his salary. Mr.
sell is a well known lumberman.
Bis-
PR0MINENT MANUFACTURER.
SETTLED OUT OF COURT.
I
of L. A. Flint.
:nj to lr. Andr-U' letter, and at the
jeiid f the training fvr"! eatb doctor
cwun gaint tii etat 1 to proceed to join tie colurt with rank
vf a lieutoaAnt.
Breach of Promise Action of Lyndonville
Parties.
t. Johnsbury. Jan. 7. The breach of
romise suit of Agnea MdJovern . Kl-
ward Riley, which n to have h-en trie.l
at the pn-cnt term of Caledonia county
court, ha l-een settled out of court.
The 1 laintifT. who is a arbonl teacSer at
l.y ndonville. sued for $7.'. tie defend
ant being cashier of a bank in I.vnJoo-wille.
Gen. F. G. Butterfield of Newport Was
Also Leading Citizen,
Newport, Jan. 7. Gen. F. G. Butter-
field of Derby Line died yesterday after
a very short illness with pneumonia. pjther for P.arre or Montp'lier. Many of
the arrests made by the local police this
month have been woodchoppers and
cookees, allteit with plenty of snow for
operations in the woods, lumber dealers
are making every effort to keep their
men witlnn the pale of fir these days.
Hard-earned "iron men," gained by toil
some davs in the mountains, are scat
tered promiscuously when the jacks
reach town and then they are ready to
return to the woods for another month.
But often enough they are taken in tow
wa a wnator from Uy the police and as a majority of them
are penniless at ik. lag emt of their
spree, invariably they wind up in th
county jail.
With a tale of having spent $IM inc
he left the w not I a three werks ago. Mi
chael tropin of Rochester, who was ar
retted in the Central Vermont yard br
Chief Sinclair yeterdav. pleaded guilt v
before Magistrate H. W. Scott in city
entirt this morning and went fr jail for
(ien. Butterfield was a prominent citi
ren in the state and was closely identi
fied in building up the community in
which he lived. He was president of the
large manufacturing concern of liutter
field fc Co., and was largely rcponsi-
ble for bringing the company to the po
sition which it holds in international
commerce.
(Jvn. Butterfield held many public of-
hcea. He was representative trom the
town of Derby in the Vermont legiula
ture of lS'JS and
Orleans county in 1SU0. He was a Civil
war veteran and past grand commander
of the (. A. R. of ermont, a member
of the Sons of Veterans of the Amer
ican Revolution and a Maon He received
a nwcial medul from tVngres for brav
ery in the Civil war.
(Jen. Butterfield was a pat comman
der of the Vermont branch of the mili-
tsry order of the Loyal I-gion of t'-ej
United Mates and Colonel C. J). W il-j o ,U y. The wood in Warren ere
ham. rcor.kr of the order, baa writ j r. pre-. fitel to-day by Thnma Kennedy,
the Unite.! Mates flag which wiil l j ; ,a arr.-Med by OtTWr Jn)n W.
drapel about the eaket. iinern Ut tfif!!. and Peter l!own, who
The deeeae,l i i'tvicd by a widow, J a H.-.k mVif in CJraari'le until be
one aon. Benjamin K, an ! a daughter, j UH t' e pr.iT a ek ago. wna arrt-Kth-r.
both of lerbr Line, and two;e,l tt Biglt bv t!,-er Ihneen. Hots
brother. Fred of I Ar,ee!e, al, and K ti'e.!c and fo went to jail. aftr
tl :!- V ft Bellows Kali. j lciil.ng gu'-'y to intiratK.a charge.
;.-l
