'i 0l (a! H,.y
Capital Building t,
Published in the Mo
renci Clifton District.
Population 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro
ducing District in the
State of Arizona.
AND HORENCI LBADER
VOLUME XVII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, JAXITAKY 7, 1916.
NUMBER 33.
VISITS DISTRICT ON
BEHALF OF MINE
IS
A. V. Dye, Personal Representative
of Dr. Douglas Visit3 . Clifon-Mo-renci
District and Addresses Large
' Audiences of Strikers.
A. V. Dye, a personal represents-
TT-f 'olt.TT TVinplaa Vina
tr, nun onH TVfnronrl thl wlr
and addressed large meetings of ! fering the committee are overlooking ls known where the, rumor ong
atrlken at both, places. On Sunday jno needy ones and their work is be- jmated but .lt thought to have had
afternoon Dr. Dye held a meeting at iing carried on in the interest of all conception in the nnnds of some
the Rink in Morenci at which terms j without regard to race, color or affili- jf toe ver jealous state press now
of setUement were gone into but no ations. Notify any of the above !e7er Jt B" had the 6 f? ,f L""1"!
conclusive action was taken: An- j ladies and they will call for anything j the people here up to a lugh pitch and
other meeting .was 'held on Monday you may have in the. line of clothing conjectures have been numerous in
- va onmn naoiiitu J , tw siMM regard to the different phases of the
rather lalck of results. v
On Tuesday afternoon at the Prin- ;
cess Theatre in Clifton Mr. Dye ad- 1
dressed a packed house, however he
never had a chance to conclude his
speech on account of continual in
terruptions from persons in the audi
ence. After speaking for about 15
or twenty minutes in Spanish he was
interrupted by several persons who
wished to ask questions, one of which
was, "Will there be any discrimina
tions by the managers in 'case the
men decide to go back to work against ,
those who have taken an active part ed their anmual meeting , yesterday
in the strike?" Mr. Dye's' answer; with the state ,tax commission In the
was to the effect that there would 'house chambers of the statehouse.
.possibly be discriminations" against 1 Other visitors are' also here repre
the men who had resorted to violence, j senting other organizations interest-
and . that the managers would
their discretion as to whom
would retain in their employ
those whom they would not.
further stated that there would
no ' discrimination against any
one
element for their activities in the about Wednesday noon,
strike . From this time on a gen- Nearly every county assessor in Ari
eral pow-wow took place and he 'had zona Is here for the meeting, .the ex
no chance to finish his remarks, how- 'eeptions being C. S. Love of Apache
ever,- it Is understood that the mes- j county and J. W. Bogan .assessor of
sage he wished to convey was sub-ipima county. L. E. Smith, chief
stantially to the same effect as the ; deputy, is here for Bogan. Love's ab
notice from the managers which was jsence, it is thought, is due to the
printed in the Copper Era last week., iheay snows in northern Arizona as
Mr, Dye met with the executive
committee of the strikers ok Tuesday
afternoon and they asked him to sub-
mit the following proposition to the
managers in El Paso: "The matter
ing which the Western Federation of assessor of Cochise; J. D. Dunn, coun- ;mornlng and the men from tne refu
Miners was to be eliminated in a !ty assessor of Coconino and Ms chief gee Camp at Duncan wno Uave been
bona fide manner and a committee ap- j deputy, Henry L. Aphold; W. G. Dun- idoing tne work wil1 return to tneir
pointed to meet with the managers
provided the managers would . give
their consent to meet the said com-
Jnittee. in El. Paso. This committee
will come simply as a representative
committee of the men. on strike.
The answer from the managers to ;county assessor of Navajo; L. E.
the above telegram could not be ob- Smith, chief deputy to the Pima coun
tained by the Era up to the time of jty assessor; George Truman, county
going to press but that it was of an
unsatisfactory nature is shown by the
formulation of another telegram
which was sent to the managers on
Wednesday. The answer to the mes-
asge from the managers was as fol -
lows: "The proposition to eleminate
he Western Federation of , Miners and
furnish, bona fide proof thereof be-
lore, a conference between managers
and strikers is called, we cannot con-
sent to for obvious reasons. We will
meet the managers within the week
specified in former communication for
a conference looking to a settlement
said settlement not to come in force
or effect until the W. F. of M. has
been eliminated."
Up to this time negotiations for a
settlement seem to be no further
along than they 'have been for some
time past, although it is evident that
an honest endeavor is being made on
the part of both factions for steps
leading up to an early resumption of
operations. It is understood that
further negotiations are pending and
'that communications will be shortly
resumed.
Mr. Dye left yesterday morning for
El Paso to confer with the managers
and that he will return to the district
in a few days for a further conference
with the strikers, stating that he
would remain as long as he ' could
accomplish any good.
CARRANZA BANQUETS
QTERETARO. January 3 General
Carranza was the guest at a banquet
attended by prominent men from
Mexico City, which is a- few hours'
ride from here. Carranza will spend
the night here. His itinerary after
leaving Queretaro is unannounced.
CLOTHING SOLICITED
' A committee of ladies have been
busy this week visiting the different ;
I sections of town in an effort to as
certain the families in need of cloth
ling and food. The ladies have en
; countered numberless cases of desti
tution, where whole families are suf
i fering from insufficient food and
Iwho have scarcely enough clothing to ;
... . . . j j
cover them. There is a great demand
' for clothing especially, and anyone
having cast off clothes which they
may wish to donate to the needy oue3
"may notify the committee composed
of Mesdames Frank Davis, Vicla Den
v .nison and J C. Fraps and they will
'gladly call for the same and distribute :
it or'hovex it -arill An ttlfl mnsh CTOori . -Tl !
their onrlpavnrs tn alleviate the suf-
TAX ASSESSORS
Ml
Uniform Valuation of All Classes of
Property Will Be Sought and Laws
Changed if Necessary.
PHOENIX, Jan. 5 County assess-
ors from all parts of the state open-1 .
CONFERENCE
use Jed in .the question of taxation,
they j Charles' Howe, chairman of the
and j tax commission, .is chairman and
He iJeFse Boyce, secretary of the com
be 'mission, is acting as secretary. The
convention promises to last until j
j it is necessary for him to travel 80 j
j miles to reach a railroad and the auto
j stages which operate in that section 1
I cannot run until the paths are broken.
i The assessors in the city for the 1
1
can, county assessor of Gila; Myron
Allred, county assessor of Graham;
James Kirby, county assessor of
Greenlee; J. T. Bone, county assessor j
'of Maricopa; Frank L. Hunt, county
assessor of Mohave; Fay L. Gardner,
lassessol of Santa Cruz; C. E. Gen
try, county assessor of Yavapai; and
A. B. Ming, county assessor of Yuma.
J. M. Gaines, secretary of the Co-
chise County Taxpayers' Association,
jis here and the tax. commission has
ibeen advised that nearly every other
j classification will be represented,
j Charles Mullen will be present for
iho cattle grwers and Harry Gray for
th sheep growers .
j The convention is for the purpose
of considering matters relating to
taxation, to secure a uniform valuation
of all classes of property in the state
and to discuss and formulate anv
charges deemed necessary or advis
able in the laws relating to taxation
or the forms or methods in keeping
the b-oks and' accounts thereof and to
consider any and aV 'matters relating
to a just listing and
equalization of
taxe of the state.
After the convention, the assessors
sstu their work of listing property
for the 1916 assessment and the tax
commission begins the same work on
property that it assesses such as rail
roads, mines, 'etc.
BOND FIXED AT $500
SAN. ANTONIO, Texas, Jan. 4.
Having been officially informed of
Victoriano Huerta's condition, Judge
T. S. Maxey in the United States
court today fixed" the general's bond
at $500, which it was expected
would promptly be furnished by
friends in El Paso, whence the or
der was sent.
Mrs. Francis 1 jynn, who has been
spending tome time with her husband
in Kl Paso, returned U Clifton th-i
first of the week.
iieiL'
Li
NOT
DECLARE
According tc Advices from Phoenix
a ...
Governor Hunt Says Martial Law
Will Not Be Declared in Strike
District Under Present Conditions.
Excitement has been running high
in Clifton for the past few days when
it was understood that martial law
was to be declared in the strike dis-
,trict tne latter part of the week
It
subject.
It is understood that Adjutant Gen
eral Harris while in Clifton this
week was looking over the situation
in order to ascertain whether martial
law at this time was necessary or
not. In an interview he stated posi
tively that such was not the case.
Everything in the strike district
has been more quiet the past two
months than at any time since the
strike was declared and why the
question of martial law should now
be taken up passes x our understand-
ing.
In a telephone communication from
Phoenix last night the Era was In
formed by Governor Hunt that ' he
had received a report from Adjutant
General Harris to the effect that con
ditions did not warrant martial law
and he could see no reason why mar
tial law should be in effect in the
district at this time when local con
ditions Co not seem to warrant the
move. . . ... ..
Thus another obscure rumor, with
which the people In the strike district
have been burdened for the past four
months, has been dissipated and the
denial of any move toward martial
law here will be received with satis
faction by the public in general:
ASSESSMENT WORK COMPLETED
I The assessment work on the De
lias been in progress for the past two
weeks will be completed tomorrow
uumes mere ai uuce. i lie wur&. lias
"been carried on without disturbances
jof any kind and U. S. Marshal Dillon
j reports chat no trouble has been en
countered between the strikers and
the refugees. Some 250 of the men
will return to Duncan Saturay morn
ing and the remaining 200 will leave
about Monday. The United States
Marshals now in the district will also
leave for their homes the first part
of the week, their duties in the strike
zone having been performed. It was
thought by many people that upon
the completion of the assessment
work the men would refuse to return
to Duncan and that trouble would re
sult on this account and a great deal
of relief will be felt from the fact
that they will return and thus all
trouble between the men be avoided.
Unon the arrival of the men from
'rnor A,f 1 THllfTi m ! a tl-ir-
OUgh search of their persons and quite
a number of guns and other weapons
of different kinds were taken
from
them and held pending their depar -
ture for Duncan. These weapons
lare in the hands of Marshal Dillon,
and after their return to Duncan the
weapons will be turned over to them
by the marshal as they are considered
personal property.
MURDERER KERMEEN
DIES NEXT FRIDAY
Apparently nothing can save W. W.
Kermeen from the gallows at Florence
prison Friday.
The state pardon board at its meet-
ing yesterday took no action in the j
Kermeen case and as far as known
the board will hold no further ses-
sions until after the date set for the
Kermeen hanging.
Kermeen is sentenced to hang be-
tween 10 and 4 o'clock Friday. Ha
was convicted of murdering J. P. Har
rell near Bisbee on May 7, 1914.
PHOENIX, Jan. 7. Kermeen did
not hang today as scheduled but was
granted a reprieve for 10 days aud
will brought before a sanity board
tc dei ermine whether he is insane or
not. . , j. j i
S O BL
WILLMEXiGAH HUES
REOPENING
SLOWLY
Buys Railroad Equipment ;
R.
Cayenza Still After Villa Huerta
at Point of Death.
!to the sentiments voiced by them dur
. WASHINGTON, Jan. 4. State De- ing the march. "Viva la Huelga"
1 ai Unent ..dispatches indicated a re-J could be heard from one end of the
sumption ."of mining activities in Mexi- .line to the other and sentiments of
c. on a broad scale. The American a like nature were freely indulged in.
Smelting and . Refining Company of The men marched to Shannon Hill
Mexico has purchased ten engines and where they spent some, time in speech
ltio cars, the necessary equipment to making and it Is reported that several
provide its own trains. It is prepar- j vehement speecnes were maae in re
ing to operate its plants as near as ' sard to existing conditions -in the dis-
possible to full capacity.
Deoartment officials believe this will
serve to
facilitate the resumption of
;tivities generally, thus ma-
n-.ininf activities
lerially assisting the restoration
normal conditions.
Still After Villa.
EL PASO, Jan. 4. Despite state
ment's by Carranza military chieftains
that tic attempt would be made to pur
sue Villa and his troops in the Guer
rero district of southwestern Chihua
hua, it became known through advices
to the Mexican Northwestern railway
that Carranza , troops are again
(moving out of Chihuahua City and
Juarez westward along the edge of
tiie Guerrero district.
According to the advices Carranza
troops occupy the garrison of every j
station along the railroad for the pur-.j
pose of preserving communications.A'
oayiignt aauy train service nas oeen
of
'. . , i ... ment of the Interior has completed,,
co City. It ,is expected tomorrow will .
.. ..,.',,', j on the rim. of. the Grand Canyon, dn
witness the beginning of a new exodus,. . ..,,,,..'
. ., , . Arizona, a , memorial to Maj. John i
'''",. . .
Junrez to hie claims on property in ,
Juarez.
. , , '
.... , . . . ,
to military advices. It is said Obregon
... . . ...
wiU remain a week with Carranza,
;ue" l"V 7 , T
It is not announced whether Obregon
will accompany him.
Huerta Imnroved t
E.j PASO, Jan. 4. General Victori-
auo Huerta is declared out of immedi
ate danger by the physicians follow-
ing the tapping operation to relieve
hirc of fluid in his intestinal tract,
due to jaundice. The patient was
much relieved and his temperature
5nd pulse became normal. The oper
ation occurred at noon. It was per
formed without anaesthetics because
of llnerta's weakness. It is conced
ed the patient is in precarious condi
tion. '
The diagnosis, upon which the op
eration was performed, was not reveal
ed, although the 'opinion by consult
ing physicians indicated that he is
suffering from cancer of the gall
bladder and possibly a hardening of
the liver. This is the opinion ren
dered prior to any operation.
While detained at Fort Blisa Huerta
refused food except when cooked by
his wife. Now he has refused the ser
vices of a trained nurse, insisting up
on the attendance of Mrs. Huerta.
'
Ask Troops for Strike District
I'hoenix, Ariz., Jan. .4. Governor
Hunt was notifid today that' the sit
uation at Clifton is grave. It is pos
sible that the Arizona national guard
will be ordered back to the strike
zone.
!n order to determine whether it is
i absolutely necessary that more troops
jbe sent to the strike zone adjutant
general Harris leaves for Clifton to-
Uieht. He will arrive before noon to-
morrow, going by auto from Lords-
burg
When men were sent in from Dun
can to do assessment work on the De
troit Copper company's unpatented
claims sheriff Cash and Capt. Hall,
in command of the National guard
company now at Clifton, asked gov
ernor Hunt for more troops. This re
quest was reiterated last week when
Hall and Cash came to Phoenix.
This strike has already cost ' the
! state $30,000 and we do not want to
isend the guard hack to Clifton unless
j n js absolutely necessary," said the
governor.
I -t is costing a hundred dollars a
! u;iy to keep the company there now."
Here from Deming
A. E. Hobbs, for many years a suc
cessful Duncan merchant, but now a
lesident of Deming, N. M., is spend
ing the week in Clifton on business
and incidentally renewing old acquaintances.
STRIKERS PARADE
. The first parade of strikers held in
Clifton for several weeks took place
yesterday afternoon when a large n.um
her came down from Morenci and
Metcalf and joined the Clifton mem
bers in marching through) the differ
ent sections of town. It is esti
mated that there were in the neigh-
borhood of 1000 in line. The men
, . . nn nrhMtrn whirh fll
'nisned inspiring music on the line
'of march and the enthusiasm of the
men was as keen as ever according
Strict. Outside of the shouting and
cheering tne men were oraeny enougn ,
.and the parade caused but little ex-.
citement.
Aliar Ereced by interior Department
to Memory of Major Powell. s .
DEDICATION NEXT SPRING
Secretary Lane to Conduct Ceremony
in Honor of Celebrated Scientist
Whs First Explored Grand Canyon
WA ailTMriTriNr Tart K Annmin
te
Wesley Powell, the intrepid pioneer
, '
J j
piorea we urana canyon, luu me-
mndlol la 'i n nHn. ilminFatoil in TnHi.a.n
imagery a.nu auuuuniug a ui wn.tj uiu-
, .
.let, resting upon a yyrauiiuai uase oi
l , - V,.,, , -
from the west up to the altar floor,
c one may gaze into the
u .u-
"v "l
I
'Rirsgtnnifti it
mi-IUU9llf IL. Ill
aiiMi - mm a
! UhANU UANYUNj
canyon. It is a structure wortny ,"iaue i"e ruuug au xue case oi a jap
.alike of the rugged, forceful person- anese.
ality of the man and of the titanic
chasm which it overlooks.
The spot chosen for the memorial is
Sentinel Point, a promontory south of
the railway station, which commandsi
a particularly fine view of the Granite
Gorge and of the river, whose unknown
terrors of whirlpool and cataract the
Powell aprty braved in small open
boats. The structure, which is built
of weathered limestone from the
neighborhood, has a rectangular base
21 by 28. feet. The altar carries "on
its east side a medallion portrait of
Maj. Powell in bronze bas-relief by
Leila Usher and the following in
scription: "Erected by the Congress of the
United States to Maj. John Wesley
Powell, first explorer of the Grand
Canyon, who descended the river with
his party in rowboats, traversing the
gorge beneath this point August 17,
1S69, and again September 1, 1872."
The Dedication Ceremonies
The general effect is unobtrusive,
natural, and appropriate.. A few
small, gnarled trees grow close by,
but do not obstruct the view. The
structure stands back from the edge
sufficiently to permit visitors, in con
siderable numbers to group them-
Selves in front.
The memorial which Secretary Lane
h 345 now realized was planned at the
International Geological Congress of
1904 m recognition of Maj. Powell s
distinguished services as Director of
the United States Geological Survey.
Tn March, 1909, Congress appropri
ated $5,000 for the purpose, "in recog
nition of his distinguished public serv
ices as a soldier, explorer, and ad
ministrator of Government scientific
work." Dr. Holmes chose the site.
The original purpose was to make
the memorial a Roman chair facing
the canyon. Last spring Secretary
Lane substituted an altar for the
cl air, and Mark Daniels, then general
si perintendent and landscape engi
neer .of the National Parks, designed
the structure as it stands today.
It was then late in July, and Mr.
Walter Ward, engineer of the Recla
mation Service,had a difficult task be
fore him to find and hew the rock and
bnild the structure within the slender
appropriation. The Riverside Portland
Cement Co. helped by donating half
ithe cement.
This memorial, so expressive of the
I spirit and character of the man whose
PERSONAL USE"
E SOON TO
BE DEGIOEO
Can Liquor Be Imported Into the
State for Individual Consumption?
Arizona Joines in Brief U. S. Supreme
Court to Define Webb-Kenyon Act.
11TCSON, Jan. 5. Whether the im
portation of liquor Into Arizona for
"personal use" is in violation of , the.
Arizona state prohibition law is to be
definitely decided soon by the state su
preme court.
Attorney General Wiley Jones has
filed a forty eight page brief in the
W. J. Sturgeon "personal -use" case
tinw rwvnrilncr jfVno thA ctntn nimnma
-
iinl)orted Qr gni
-
ueu xue case comes up ior argu-
jment he will be assisted by not only
his two assistants, Leslie Hardy and
j George Harben, but also by Attorneys-
John K. Campbell and S. L. Klngan,
both of Tucson. - v
The brief just filed by the attorney
ereneral is in the rase wh.foh Stm-trami
appealed from the judgment of the
Yuma county superior court, which im
posed a sixty-day jail sentence and a
$70 fine for bringing a quart of wine
into Arizona."
Sturgeon's is the third "personal
use' case to come before the, sn-,
preme court since the state went dry ..
a year ago. in the other two the
pvoauuuon law was upneia in one. .
)and not upheld in other
lower court.
The case . wherein the amendment
was sustained was that against . Wil
liam Stansbury in Cochise county,-
wiieie juugw uwhwwhi ruiea mat
liquor cannot be imported for "per
sonal use, his ruling ' being practical
ly the same as that made by Judge
Baxter at Yuma in the Sturgeon case.
The superior, court judge who has'
ruled that liquor can be brought into
the state for personal use is Judge
!vnr Sh,,.t nf Oils orviiTi tv w.hn
- -
j It is understood that all three of the .
j "personal use" cases will be' consid-
;ered together so that a decision will.
(be reached shortly that will finally
na cenmteiy settle tne question.
Attorney General . Jones .has sent
copies of the brief in the Sturgeon
case . which he has filed in the Su-
jpreme vmrt to an county attorneys
.' Arizona ana to attorney general or
various states.
Attorney General Jones has accept- :
ed an invitation from attorney gea-.
erals of various southern "dry" states
! to join in preparing a brief to be filed
in the United States supreme court,
the brief to contend that the Webb
Kenyon law is valid and that the
states, under the fourteenth amend
ment to the federal constitution and
under the "due process" clause
of state constitutions, have a right
to prohibit or limit the receipt and
possession of liquors of personal use.
Jones Is joining in with the attorney
generals of Mississippi, Tennessee
and other southern states In prepar
ing the brief because Arizona is deep
ly interested in the "personal use"
question.
FORD ENROUTE TO DETROIT
NEW YORK, Jan. 4. Henry
Ford, who returned yesterday from
his trip to Europe on the peace ship
Oscar II, left last night for Detroit.
He was accompanied by his wife, his
son and several friends.
life work it celebrates, and so admir
ably located, will be formally dedi
cated early next summer. Secretary
Lane's purpose is to make the event
one of impressive importance. If, as is
expected, Congress meantime makes
the Grand Canyon a national park (it
i3 a national monument now) the two
dedications will take place, together,
making a celebration altogether nota
ble in the history of national parks.
Devotional Fires on the Altar
This memorial, embodying to a re
markable degree the essential spirit of
the Grand Canyon, is planned to be
come the scene of perhaps daily cere-
monials of a most interesting charac-
j ter .reviving the spirit and to some ex-
j ttnt the practice of the ancient re-
ligious forms in vogue among the origi-
nal Indian tribes of the neighborhood.
Devotional fires will blaze upon h
altar.
