ffl !fft. f! 'fwk off ft M? fl
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
& s . & .: &
a
-
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
M
jj
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS S'nSI
GERMANS NO
EGYPT IS LATEST REPOR
Carl Ackerman Sends News From Berlin That Work
Will Be Left To Turks, Assisted By German i lions
Premier of Japan States That Germany Ha fed
Separate Peace Terms to Russia and Japan Wl Were
Rejected By These Nations
By Carl W. Ackerman .
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Berlin, Jan. 7. Germany, it is believed here, will not
send an army to the Suez, but instead will rely on Turks,
officered by Germans and supplied with German munitions
to invade Egypt.
Authorities point out that the Turks now have more
than 1,000,000 men in the field, and that these will soon be
thoroughly equipped for campaigning. German officers
who have lived in Egypt and understand the problems of
warfare there will be assigned to the invaders. It is now
possible to send supplies to Constantinople and thence
to Damascus faster than ever, as the result of German
improvements in the Serbian railroad.
The situation in Greece for the present lacks interest in
view of the possibilities of the Egyptian campaign. Critics
declare the Bulgarians can sweep the Salonika allies into
the sea anytime they want to invade Greece, and that
there are enough submarines in the Mediterranean to in
flict disastrous results upon transports retreating from
Salonika.
Would Make Separate Peace.
London, Jan. 7. Germany has made overtures to Japan
and Russia for a separate peace, but these have been
rejected, Count Okuma, Japan's premier told interviewers
today, according to the Tokio correspondent of a-news
agency.
Okuma attributed Germany's desire for peace to the.
acute situation oi her tinances.
Salonika, Jnii. 7. Two hundred thou
sand fully equipped troops of the cen
tral powers nre massed before the Gre
cian border ready to invade Greec in
mi attack on Eiilonika, the allies' base.
Their blow probably will not be long
delayed.
The Bulgars nro advancing in masses
between Doirau nnd Gicgveil. Fifteen
thousand of them nre concentrated at
Monastic Only a single Bulgar division
is operating in Albania.
Avintors reported that the Austriuna
nro forming on tho Bulgar right near
Mon astir, while four German divisions
are behind tho Bulgar center. At least
heven Bulgar divisions are within, a few
hours march of the border, nnd other
hordes nro coming up to join them.
.Meantime the allies nre extremely
ronfident thnt they can bent back the
tido of Teutonic invaders Salonika
is well protected by n fortified line
running liko a giant steel half moon
in a 37 milo line around tho bay. The
nllies tit the border expect to retire to
this lino if superior forces drive, nt
them.
1 Italy Receives Pay.
Berlin, by wireless, to Snyville. T,. I.,
Tun. 7. Italy received $100,000,000
from tho nllies for her recent agree
ment not to conclude a separate peace,
according to thn Zurich None Zuorich
er Zeitung today. One clause of the
agreement was said to operate against
co operation with the Vatican.
' Trench Liner Eecapes.
Marseilles, Jan. 7 .Tusf as the French
liner Karnnk came In vesterdnv after
Abe Martin
"VVlio remembers when thcr wuzn'
su.li a thing ns a prominent an' hard
t' do fnrmerf It takes a pretty good
President t' handle grave international
problems on' spark nt th' anme time.
11"
0
a thrilling submnrine chase, the French
liner Meinnm diil today. The submarine
hurled at least 100 shells after tho flee
ing Meinnm, but none of them hit.
Passengers said the liner sizzngged
as tho big speedy submarine, with guns
fore and aft, kept plugging shells at
her Several members of the submarine
crew could be seen on the deck by the
aid of field glasses.
All the shells fell a few rods astern,
but one flew overhead.
The Meinam was a sister ship of the
Karnnk.
Russian Press Attack.
London, .Inn. ". Russian aviators re
cently bombarded the Czernowitz, Buk
owinn Hint ion repeatedly, according to
Bucharest dispatches toduv, Slav forc
es meantime, captured two sections of
Austriiu trenches n few miles distant,
....... iiu-ii meir uauinierina at the
Austrian front.
Submarine Sinks.
London, Jan. 7. A British subma
rine sank off tho Dutch island of Tcxel
yesterday, according to official an
nouncement today. A Dutch cruiser
rescued the crew.
OF All AMERICAS
Pan-American Nations Have
Reached Basis For Har
monious Action
Washington, ,Tnn. 7. The "States of
America," a firm, friendly nlliunco be
tween all the Americns, came out of the
realm of dreams today into the more
substantial realm of probable accomp
lishment following President Wilton's
official o. k. placed openly on the plan
last night.
As he announce it, it was substantial
ly ns outlined by the United Press sev
eral days since. Secretary of State
Lansing's overtures for a Pun-American
alliance that, in erfect, would hold
forth a warning hand against Kuropoun
aggression in the western hemisphere
was heartily approved by the chief ex
ecutive in addressing the Pan-American
Scientific congress,
"If America Is come into her own,
into her legitimate own," said the pres
ident, "in a world of pence nnd order,
she must establish the foundations of
nmily so that no ono will hereafter
doubt them."
lik announcing his endorsement of
the "Slates of Amcricu," program, the
president reiterated his view that the
Monroe doctrine must forever stand.
, But, at the same time, ha told his Huuth
i and Central American listeners that
the United states wants to sweep away
OF
S
Vessel Arrives In New York
Port After Many Days
of Delay
New York, Jan. 7. Mutiny added to
tho terrors of passengers on the strick
en Greek liner Thessalonika on tho
night aftor Christmas as she wallowed
in tho Bcas after springing her plates,
passengers said today when they ur
rived on tho rescue ship I'atris.
All but threo of the crew, after
much muttering over their plight, led
a wild assault from the steerage to
tho bridge where they found Captain
Goulandis sleeping. Aroused by their
onslaught, ho faced tho mutineers
bravely and drove them all below.
The story of tho Thessalonik a's first
trouble when tho liner Stampalia stood
b-; her later efforts to proceed here.
and her second disabling and final
nbandonmont were detailed by William
Williams, a former American cavalry
man returning from a visit to his
mother. Ho embarked at Athens De
cember 1(1.
"Wo encountered a hurricane on the
21st," ho said, "and some plates were
sprung and the ongine room was flood
ed, it was not serious, however, and
the ,crew pumped out the water.
Trouble began on the 22nd when a sec
ond storm overtook tho vessel. Cap-
ram uouianjis reinsert to transter the
passengers to tho Italian liner Stam
palia then standing by in response to
her calls. Those in the Btcerage came
up and demanded that the Stampalia
tow us. Goulandis refused.
"Then as the Stampalia steamed off.
the steerigo passengers gathered on
tne wave-swept deck about a little al
tnr, and prayed all night with Father
Fallis Traitos.
"Christmas day was pleasant and
clear, but we wore ueirly famished,
for we had had no meat for 15 days,
and only a half cup of water daily.
"Tho real mutiny came on the 26th
when the storm swept off a lifeboat.
On the night of the 28th, the chief of
ficer wirelessed for aid contrary to
onlers. Forty one women, and 20 chil
dren, including four infants were t iken
on the Paris at daybreak Sunday,
while the men waited. The sea was
comparatively calm,"
Williams said that the Tatris irrived
while officers wore dickering with the
siruiuniiip jiun&ui lor u tow. ine rw
ris snapped each time and the two ves
sels finally drifted apart under the
lashing of the storm. Finally, however,
the I'atris took off nil the 170 passen
gers md proceeded to port. Officers of
too rntns tliougut that tho Thessalon
ika was still afloat though her seacocks
were open.
The crew is due on the freighter Per-
ugia tonignt.
The Thessalonika 's inability to re
port her position was explained by the
i a it. ui.it tne sun was bidden.
Nicholas Anastasopolus. a wealthy
Sau Francisco Greek, with his bride,
mother and three nephews were among
i ne i iicss uonma pnssongcis.
tho vestirrn of susnicinn thnt lliiu ilip
trine is in any way unfriendly to the
mu urns sou i n or tnis nation.
His program, based on "the solid
eternal foundations of justice and
humanity" would provido in short a
united front of all the Americas to
mninlnin tho political and territorial in
tegrity of all tho states. It would
settle old boundary disputes amicably;
it would have other disputes arranged
by arbitration; and it would prevent
revolutionary states from getting sun-
idles from ntlinr Htnti-M
i ne president Hold tnut the bonds of
common ideals nnd interests are rapid
ly cementing the Americas and paving
the road to realization of such an alli
ance in the west.
Back of tho alliance, administration
lenders sco a combination really intend
ed to forestall any aggression from
nbroad on alliance to combat any un
friendly moves by European or Oriental
nations in tho wake of Europe's dis
astrous war.
VETERAN CATCHER SOLS
Philadelphia, Pa., dan. 7. Manager
Connie Mack, of the Athletics today
released Catcher Lapp to the White
Sox. Owner CotnUkey of the Sox takes
over tho contract which hus a year to
run.
FORD PEA CEPAR TY,ANY
THING BUT PEACEFUL,
ENROUTETOTHE HAGUE
By Charles P. Stewart,
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Copenhagen, Jan. (I. Again all Is not
pcaco with tho Ford peace party. Par
ticularly shattered is tho party 's peace
of mind.
The Bonnet Tourist agency today
theratened to sue tho expedition for
13,5110, alleging thnt the delegates can
celled engagement for a ship to take
them to The Hague, after they had ob
tained permission to cross Germany.
Still another unpenceful symptom wns
the threat of liexford Holmes, dis
charged pnrty stenographer to sue for
alleged slander, though attorneys coun
selled against such action.
Then, to add to tho gnyety of the
situation, the newspapers hero print
lurid reports of tho Austro-Ammican
STILL NO LIGHT
TORPEDOING
OF
Austria Answers That She
Has No Information Re
garding Affair
GENERAL DIPLOMATIC
SITUATION CONSIDERED
Agreement Reached With Ber
lin Over Sinking of
Liisitania
Washington, Jan. 7. Long consider
atioa by the cabinet of tho sinking of
tho liner Persia today left the situation
as before dependent upon Austrian in
formation for solution. But, Austria
has no information thus far, Ambas
sador Penfiold said the foreign office
bad told him. -
The senate foreign committee facing
the Bame Absolute lack of knowledge,
of circumstances as the cabinet, ad
journed without discussing the Persia
issue.
Certain members of tho cabinet how
ever, manifested impatience over the
situation. One mentioned "broken
promises" and said the situation called
for a "complete roundup on the whole
submarine question," but he was un
willing to say how.
Information Lacking.
Washington, Jan. T. Tho govern
ment's policy ia the sinking of the
liner Persia with its vast toll of human
life, including Consul McNecly, Amer
ican, was considered today by both the
president's cabinot and congress.
The cabinet meeting was tho first in
a month. To it, the resident and sec
retary of Btate, Lansing, presented tho
scant evidenceat hand regurding tho in
cident. At the same time, both tho
senate and houso foreign committees
took up the enso informally nnd mapped
out a program for co-oporatioa with the
White House and state department.
This called for putting a quietus on in
cendiary speeches in both houses.
Administration leaders admitted that
their hands are tied as far as any action
in the case is concerned, until they have
received further evidence. The Vienna
foreign office kas'replied to Ambassad
or Penfield's request for information
by saying it hus had no report con
ceruine the Persia, the state department
announced today . This may be due to
the fact that the submanno communu
er has not had time to report, or it may
indicate that an Austrian submarine
was not responsible.
Authorities regard it bb unthinknblo
that Austria will dony responsibility
for the torpedoing and withhold in
formation if one of her undersea boats
sent the liner to the bottom. In event
it was an Austrian vessel, it la expected
thnt Austria will disavow tho incident,
unless the Persia fled or was subject to
an unwarned attack by reason of being
armed. The latter defense might bring
the question of arming merchantmcnt
to a head. Meanwhile the government's
has altered its nttitudo toward suc.n
arming, but is waiting full information
as to how effective the 4.7 inchcr
aboard the Persia really was.
The cabinet and the foreign commit
tees considered policies, it was pointed
out in this connection for an under
standing with the central powers as to
future submarine attacks; a second,
was the possibility of putting forth a
declaration that if an American citizen
in an unarmed vessel, not attempting to
flee, were injured or jeopardized the nn
t ion owning the attneking submnrine
must accept responsibility. Another
point for discussion wns issuance of a
caution notice for Americans to select
i carefully tho vessel on which they w ill
(Continued on Pago Seven.)
situation, and this makes somo of the
delegates fear thnt trouble will break
out. while they aro crossing Germany.
And, too, they hear terrible stories of
the war bread they must cat as they
go through as interned passengers.
A Swedish delegation of 10 accom
panys tho party to Tho Hague. In tho
Danish delegation will be Louis Frann
kct, a Zionist, who expects to mnko the
nationalization of Pnicstino a condition
for peace.
Before departing for The Hague, the
managers contributed 42,500 to local
peace societies.
S. S. McClure, New York publisher,
has quit the party and Is going to Ber
lin; ltev. Charles F. Aked, of Ban Fran
cisco, denied a report that be has re
signed his pastorate.
LINER
PERSIA
All Facts Concerning Sub
k marine Operations Will Be
Fully Communicated
Washington, Jan. 7. Gormany
pledged herself .today to communicate
to America any facts in regard to the
sinking of tho liner Persia "if the cir
cumstances warrant;" to punish any
commander who violates orders for con
duct of submariud warfare in the Medi
terranean and to make reparation for
American deaths or injuries.
In effect, the statement revealing
Gcrmnny's instructions to her Mediter
ranean commanders was an advance dis
avowal of the torpedoing and a promise
to punish any offenders. In tins light,
it aroused speculation as to whether
Germany anticipates information that
one of her undersea boats was tho of
fender.
The statement submitted to Secre
tary of State Lansing by Ambassador
Von Bornstorff said commanders had
been ordered to conduct the warfare
in the Mediterranean with respect to in
ternational law, and to provtdo safety
for those aboard in caso the torpodoed
ship did not resist attack or attempt
to fleo. As for measures of special re
prisal, existent about the British isles,
tho Mediterranean commanders were
excluded.
Tho statement declared:
"German submarines in tho Mediter
ranean, had, from the beginning of the
war, orders to conduct their warfare
against enemy merchantmen only in ac
cordance with the general principles of j
international law. In particular meas
ures of reprisal, as applied around tho
British isles, they were excluded.
"German submarines, therefore, have
been permitted to destroy enemy mer
chantmen in tho Mediterranean that
is, passenger vessels as well as freight
ers insofar as they do not try to escape
or resist only after passengers and
crows have been accorded safety,
"All cases in the Mediterranean tn
which German submarines are concern
ed, are made the subject of official in
vestigation, besides being submitted to
rcgulur prize court proceedings. Inso
far as American interests aro con
cerned, the German government will
communicate the results to America.
This will also be done in the Persia
caso if tho circumstances warrant.
"If the commanders of German sub
marines did not obey orders, they will
be punished; furthermore Germany will
make reparation for damnges caused by
death or injurios to Americans."
If the statement was intended to dis
poso of tho Lusituia controversy, au
thorities held that it docs not go very
far unless it is morcry a preliminary
step, for in this caso tho administration
insists on a specific disavowal, not one
by inference.
The fact that the anibnssndnr ex
tended insurances for safety of thoso
aboard freighters as well as passeng
er ships gave some ground of possibil
ity thut tho government perhaps will
bo willing to forego a specific Liisitan
ia disavowal, however, fur a high Btate
department official recently said that
the govorncmnt is prln.cip.tlty con
cerned with tho future, not the past.
This, in connection with tho promise
regarding tho future also may help
Germany to escape tho nocessity of a
speciiic disavowal.
"White Sales" Prohibited In
Berlin To Conserve Sup
ply of Cotton
By J. T, W. Mason,
(Written for tho United Press.)
New York, .Ian. 7. That Germany
is beginning to feel tho pincn of short
age of textiles is evidenced in the re
port that the authorities hnvo prohib
ited "whito sules" in Berlin. Appnr
enlly tho intention of this movo is to
limit consumption of cotton, linen and
woolen goods, and to discourngo pur
chases beyond the people's needs,
However, no substifuto for theso ur
tides of clothing has been devised,
thniign Uormnn, pcicutists lu.vo suc
ceeded in producing many laboratory
substitutes for goods blocked by the
ullies. For instance, they have been
enabled to put together the constituent
elements of riibher and to make what
is known as synthetic rubber, but thus
lar they bavo not been able to make
synthetic clothing.
Kconomiats havo predicted for somo
mouths thnt Germany is ipproiicning a
crisis in the matter of textiles. While
it is improbable that tho crisis has
actually appeared, thero can be do
iloulit as tn tho symptoms of such, a sit
tuition. This will not only prove dis
comforting but the closing of textile
mills for want of wool, cotton and
flax, will throw hundreds of thousands
out of employment.
This illustrates the silent but per
hups docisivo work thnt the British
licet has done in bottling up Germany
and preventing nor rrom getting uocd
ed supplies.
DARDANELLES FIASCO
MAY BE INVESTIGATED
When General Hamilton's Report of Failure To Send Rein
forcements Is Published Nation Is Astonished, ari
Newspapers Demand Probe Soldiers Led by Inex
perienced Officers, Suffered Untold Hardships and Were
' Slaughtered With Little fighting Show For Their Lives
, London, Jan. .-rThe whole Dardanelles expedition fail
ure may be investigated it was reported today, as a result
of General Ian Hamilton's report. General Stopford ha3
demanded that the war office immediately investigate
the Suvla Bay failure, the Pall Mall Gazette announced.
England had heard humors of the startling nature of
Hamilton's report, but .when the full import of the mes
sage dawned upon them today there was consternation
mingled in many places with anger.
Hamilton laid the failure of the expedition to the fact
that he was not given reinforcements at critical times,
that some of his men and officers were not sufficiently
trained, and last but not least to the disorganized manner
in which the water supply was arranged. His picture of
men lapping the beads of water from the bags of liquid
the mules carried, furnished a truly pathetic picture. :
General Stopford's request for investigation supposed
ly is based on Hamilton's report that he lacked support,
and more particularly on his statement that Stopford's
disinclination to make frontal attacks was the root of
our failure to make use of the priceless daylight hours of
August 8.
London. Jan. 7. The government
found itseuf today in a most critical
position.
f irst, it laceu tne nosiuity ot organ
ized labor toward its conscription meas
ure. Second, it was uuilor fire be
cause Of tho Dardanelles xpodition
failure, as revealed in tho frand roport
of General lan Hamilton, deposed lead
er of tho forces on the Uallipoli pen
insula. Tho press generally divided Its
space between reports or tne opposition
engendered in the labor congress by
tho conscription bill and the startling
Hamilton report, imposition news
papers seized upon the Hamilton revol
utions as a new basis for attack on
the followers of Premier Asquith, us
ing the Dardanelles information to bol
ster up Lloyd-George's now famous
"too Into" remarks.
However, powerful men of all par
ties are aiding tho government to pro
vent a gcueruV election in tho midst of
tho war. On tho other hand, soveral
government supporters believe thut in
such a test tho pcoplo would ondorso
tho conscription move overwhelmingly,
and return Asquith to power with a
People of Germany
Suffering For Food
Portland, Or., Jan. 7. Thousands of
pcoplo in Uermnny are getting bnrely
enough food to live on, according to
Mrs. Ntanislaw Miller, who has just ar
rived hero from Poseu, Germany. Sol
diers often go several days without
bread, she says.
Mrs. Miller hud somo difficulty get
ting out of Gerinnny. fho wns do
tained nt the border, and a woman ac
companying her was not allowed to
leave tiic country hecauso she carried
1,IK;0 marks in gold. In l.'openhagen
sho was again searched, this timo by
Danish soldiers, Mrs. Miller said. Tho
liner United States, on which sho
crossed the Atlantic, was buffeted by
the storm which shook tho pcaco ship
Oscar H. Tho ship was overhauled and
detained four duys by a Hrilish battle
ship ncur- Christiunia, said Mrs. Mil-
ITALIAN STEAMER ESCAPES
Washington. Jan. 7. Tho Italian
steamer Guiscppo Verdi, which reached
New Vork yesterday witii two il-nicb
guns mounted on her, will not bo in
terned as a warship, nor will this gov
ernment insist on removal of tho guns,
before sho sails again, if the report of
Collector of Port Dudley Field M ilono
ii: followed, lie hell no violation of
American neutrality is involved.
RAILEOAD CASE ENDED.
New York, dun. 7. Judge Hunt to
day began his elinrgo to the jury In
the trial of wenlthv New York, Now
Haven nnd Hartford railroad directors
charged with conspiracy to pyramid
transportation lines of New England in
a giant combine.
Tho cio went to tho jury at 1:.10
o'clock.
BABIES UKY iUU BUUjVl
New York, Jan. 7. Givo us
milk, Is tho cry of millions of
German babies, under the pres
sure of war time scarcity, ac
cording to Pr. Milch, who is
socking to arnngo for shipping
condensed milk and fats to tho
fatherland.
vote of confidence that would stifle op
position to him for the balance of tho
war.
Another source of gratification to
supporters of tho conscription plan was
the vote of 403 to 105 on the first read
ing of tho measure.
Resignations of Arthur ' Henderson,
Iaborite leader, and two other laboritcs,
an undersecretary and the lord commis
sioner of the treasury revived rumors
that would hurt, but these reports were
not generally credited.
One of the most serious factors in
the whole situation was the bint or
President Bellamy of tho railway mens
order that they might strike and tie
up England's vital rail lines if con
scription is actually attempted.
Tho Mail and Telegraph today enter
tain tho view that a gcnoral election
muBt result from labor s opposition to
the conscription plan.
"The consensus of opinion tn parlia
ment, notwithstanding the labor vote,
is thnt a majority of the people favor
compulsion," said the Mail. "Tho
government may take advantage of la
bor to obtain tho country's mandate)
and so dispose of criticism."
EA1SE IN CHARTERS
Portl.ind, Or., Jnn. 7. It cost
$.')() a ton to charter wheat
ship out of Argcntino for tho
United Kingdom, according to
information received here to-
day. Hhippcrs received this sfc
nows with consternation. He-
foro tho war the riiarter rate
wns from Argcntino and $10 je
from the Pacific northwest. Ki- i
pcrts declaro tho present prices
prohibitive and gloomily pre-
dirt Unit Pacific coast wheit
shipments this yenr will be less
than ever before.
MES. MOHR'S TRIAL
Providence, H. I., d in. 7. Tho trial
of Mrs. Klizabeth Mohr, slated for
trial for complicity in tho alleged mur
dor of her doctor husband whilo ha
rodo with an affinity, took a new turn
whon tho Mohr negro c'uuuffeur Jlealia
turned state's evidence and plcadwl
nolo enntendro to a chargo of man
slaughter. STRIKERS ARB RIOTING
Youngstown, Ohio, Jan. 7. With o
third of the Youngstown Shoot 'Jnil
Tuba company's 9,hh men on strike,
rioting broke out early today in whichi
ono man Is known to bo Injured. Pick
ets stopped men from going to work,
(tones wero hurled at cars, and work
ers wore drugged therefrom.
THE WEATHER :
Oregon! To
night und Satur
day rain or
sniiw) southeast
erly winds, fresh,
to strong neat
tho const. ,
feel"! WHITE. "
Itop SMofsara
