i??Wm
h*!*.
fir
4* r* 1 1
CANTATAPRESENTED
By the Cambridge Choral Union at the
Armory on Monday Evening De-
lights Princeton Audience.
Despite the Disagreeable Weather,
About 300 People Greeted Songs-
ters of Our Sister Village.
Monday would indeed have been a
pleasant day had Princeton people
possessed the power to control the
the weather. The Cambridge Choral
Union visited our village upon that oe
casion, and despite the fact that all
possible pressure was brought to bear
upon the weather man, the day set in
cloudy, dismal and dreary, and the
dank and drizzly weather continued
throughout the afternoon and evening.
Notwithstanding this, however, a
fair sized audience turned out to
hear the songsters of our neighboring
village present "The Holy City," an
oratorio of a sacred character, and the
program was, more than enjoyed by
those present.
The Cambridge Choral Union is an
organization embracing a membership
of 65, including benedicts, youths and
charming maids and matrons. With
the exception of Mr. Bloom, all are
residents of Cambridge, and the cho
rus is indeed a credit to that village.
"Contemplation" was the subject
of part one of the sacred cantata, and
it opened with an orchestra selection.
Chorus numbers, vocal solos, duetts
and quartets followed, and a highly
pleased audience showed its apprecia
tion time and time again.
The first part consisted of quotas
tions from the Scriptures and anth
ems, all contemplative of "The Holy
City," while part two, which was en,
titled "Adoration," was of a wor
shipful character. Complete programs
were given out, and what was being
sung could be read word for word.
Four soloists were used, \iz: Mrs.
H. A. Peterson, soprano Mrs. Martina
Erickson, contralto Mr. Paul Bloom,
tenor, and Mr. C. H. Sutherland, bass.
Each one did splendidly.
All in all the entertainment was
one of more than ordinary merit, and
the difficult parts of the oratorio were
interpreted by the musicians from our
sister county, in a manner that showed
native ability, and careful training.
Those in attendance were unanimous
in expressing their delight over the
program listened to, and that Cam*
bridge has a chorus of which it can
well feel proud, was the verdict of all.
Glendorado Farmers' Club Meeting.
Yesterday afternoon the hall over
Odegard's store in Glendorado was
densely packed with members of the
Glendorado Farmers' club, and their
families to listen to Hon. A. F. Tigen
of Montevideo. The Glendorado band
was on hand and enlivened the occa
sion by splendidly rendering several
selections. The band is certainly a
credit to the thriving hamlet of Glen
dorado and vicinity. Hon. Edward
Indrehus, in the absence of the presi
dent of the club, presided and intro
duced the speakers.
R. C. Dunn talked for 40 minutes on
the road laws of the state. Mr. Tigen
spoke at some length. He called at-,
tion to the day as being the Norwe
gians' Fourth of July, then he launched
into his favorite topicthe marketing
of farm products. He claimed that the
farmers, and more especially the
the wheat-raisers, were not getting a
square deal, but he did not make it
'"Vplear to his listeners how he proposed
to remedy the evils he complained of.
He referred to several bills that had
been introduced in the last legislature,
none of which became laws, but he
did not go into details as to what the
bills would have accomplished if they
had been enacted into laws. He also
paid his respects to the cattle dealers
of South St. Paul, but here again he
failed to tell how conditions could be
bettered.
His severe criticism of the railroad
and warehouse commissioners and the
so-called efficiency and economy com*
mission, and his savage denunciation
of the grain gamblers of Minneapolis
and Chicago seemed to meet with the
approval of the audience.
+While there was much truth in
the charges and assertions of Mr.
Tigen, yet, we repeat, lie did not
make it plain how matters could be
remedied. He rightly said that there
\aejre too many bills introduced in the
legislature and that too many of them
became laws, but how to lessen the
evil is a problem not easy of solution.
That Mr. Tigen is honest and well
meaning no one who has served with
him in the legislature will gainsay,
but he is regarded by many as being
n^'^ l^ ^l-'A^^^^^|f
r%. Minn. Historical Society^
too radical and prone to talk too much.
A member of the legislature, however,
who is not radical and does not do
some talking will not get very far.
Certainly Mr. Tigen has the courage
of his convictions.
On the whole Mr. Tigen's two hours'
talk was decidedly interesting, and
was attentively listened to by the
large and intelligent audience.
Travels From Texas on Motor Cycle.
C. L. Peters, of San Antonio, Texas,
arrived in Princeton Tuesday after
noon riding a Harley-Davidson motor
cycle, on his way to Wahkon. He
made the trip in nine days actual road
time, and from the appearance of
the luggage he carried with him, and
his rugged appearance, he seems to
be none the worse for the trip, al
though there were many difficulties en
countered. Mr. Peters informs us thar
people in the neighborhood of his home
city, which is not a great distance from
the Mexican border, are not so con
cerned over the Mexican situa
tion as are some of us farther north,
who have only unreliable sources from
which to gain our information. He
states that people have grown ac
customed to this and that report, and
pay no more attention to its details
than any every-day incident. Mr.
Peters and his Harley Davidson
show the effects of a long, hard trip,
allnght, and no doubt he is thankful
that his journey is almost terminated.
Uglem Heads Corporation.
Henry Uglem, the genial Long Sid
ing hustler, has been elected president
of the American General Corporation,
with headquarters at Minneapolis. The
company is capitalized at $100,000, and
it will handle produce and investments.
No mistake was made in placing Mr.
Uglem at the head of the concern.
"Hank," as he is familiarly known in
this vicinity, has had years of experi
ence in handling produce, investments,
etc. He organized various enterprises
in this county, including the Long
Siding Live Stock & Produce Co., and
the Farmers' State bank at that ham
let, with which he has been connected
for some time. He came to Long Siding
nine years ago, when there was prac
tically nothing there, and it is laregly
due to his efforts that it has developed
into a busy little trading point. Mr.
Uglem expects to move his family to
Minneapolis in the near future, and
numerous friends wish them well.
Sanguine of Success.
Frank Kellogg's speaking tour
through the southern part of the
state, seems to have been one con
tinual ovation. Kellogg advocates
some things that the people want and
he has the happy faculty of putting
his ideas before the public in a manner
that wins their approval and confi
dence. Mr. Kellogg may not be much
of a politician, but he is a thoughtful
student of public affairs and can dis
cuss them from any point of view, and
the way the people are flocking to^his
standard is very gratifying to those
who are tired of political chicanery
and are glad to find one to discuss real
ideas. The country press which in a
way is responsible for Mr. Kellogg's
candidacy for United States senator
is doing valiant service in his behalf
and his friends are quite sanguine of
success for him.Elk River Star News.
Two Filings for Clerk of Court.
Bob King tossed his sombrero into
the ring yesterday afternoon when he
made the necessary arrangements with
County Auditor Doane to have his
name appear upon the ballot as a can
didate for re-election as clerk of
court. He will have opposition as
H. A. Garrison of Milaca filed for the
office the same day. If no other can
didates enter the field Messrs. King
and Garrison will be automatically
nominatedtheir names will not ap
pear upon the primary ballotand
the voters will in "that case register
their decision at the general election
next November.
No Action Taken.
A Mr. Smith of Webster, Wisconsin,
met with the Commercial club at the
office of McMillan & Stanley last ev
ening and submitted a proposition to
the business men of Princeton to lo
cate a shoe factory here. The fac
tory would be capitalized at $100,000,
and the proposition was to have local
parties subscribe for $50,000 worth of
stock. No action was taken in the
matter, and sentiment did not seem
favorable to the proposal. The factor
is now located in the Wisconsin village
and it only employs 36 people.
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
ANOKA HIGH WINS
Local High School Ball Tossers Were
Bested by Powerful Anoka
Aggregation of Athletes.
Only Seven Innings PlayedDrizzling
Rain Slows Up Play and
Detracts Interest.
Saturday was a bad day for base
ball, and a very limited number of
fans gathered at the fair grounds to
witness the Anoka and Princeton high
school ball teams play seven innings in
a drizzling rain. It was a bad day for
Princeton also, as when time was
called the count stood 7 to 1 in favor
of Anoka.
Jesmer was on the mound for the
locals, and pitched a good game of
ball, but his support at times was
rather woozy. Only five hits were
registered off of his delivery, and sev
en of the opposing batsmen were
mowed down on strikes. Kaliher was
at the receiving station, and performed
creditably. For Anoka Palmer and
Stevens were in the points, and they
did excellent work.
Anoka went to bat first, and the in
itial man up went to first base, after
stopping one of Jesmer's shoots with
his body. Two passed balls advanced
him to third and before the side was
retired, a timely hit scored the runner.
Princeton went down in one, two,
three oi'der in its half, and both sides
ere blanked in the second. Anoka in
creased its lead in the third, when one
hit and three errors netted the visitors
two runs. Princeton broke into the
score column in this round also, and
made its one and only tally of the
game. It was an earned run, how
ever, and that helps some. Jesmer
was first up, and he slammed out a
clean drive that carried him to the
initial bag. Hill and Bishop were re
tired, but Grow slapped the old apple
on the nose for a hit that scored Jes
mer. Grow purloined second, but the
side was retired before he could ad
vance to a station nearer home plate.
The fourth and fifth innings saw some
real base ball. Both pitchers went
strong, and no runner passed the key
stone sack. The sixth, however, wit
nessed the evaporation of the few
hopes that Princeton had of winning
the game. The harrowing details
need not be entered into suffice it to
say that the visitors poled out only
two hits, and crowded three runs
across the pan. Then just to make
victory more certain the Anoka ath
letes increased their total by one in the
seventh, and the contest was ended
when Princeton was blanked in its
half.
NOTES.
Claire Smith, last season's captain
of the regulars, took on the duties of
umpire, and got away with it in good
shape.
This may be the last game the
locals will play at home, but the town
team will entertain the fans of this
vicinity with some rattling good con
tests, commencing next Sunday, when
it clashes with Mora.
That Anoka should win was to be
expected. The school is larger, and
the material to select from is not as
limited there. Had Princeton played
up to its usual form, however, the
score would have been closer.
Princeton negotiated only three hits,
and Jesmer secured two of these.
Grow poled out the other one.
The score book shows five earned
runs for Anoka, and one for Princeton.
The saddest feature of it is the fact
that it is the only run for Princeton
that it shows.
The locals have no reason to feel
disheartened. Almost all the players
are in the game for the first time this
season, and they are showing up well.
They can be depended upon to-make
it extremely interesting for any
team representing a school the size of
the Princeton high.
Norelius' Eloquent Tribute.
The most interesting political battle
in the history of the state is*now being
waged for the U. S. toga of the great
North Star state. The friendly bat
tlefor thus far it has been charac
teristically free from bitternessis
being waged between four men, Ml of
whom have been more, or less in' the
public eye for years. As time rolls on
it may prove bitter enough for the old
organization is still at work while the
voters are quietly doing a little think
ing for themselves. The Press appeals
to the independent thinking voter. Let
us choose the most efficient and the
most talented man in the quartet! Let
us have the man who has the best
legal mind, the greatest experience,
the greatest honesty and courage. Let
us choose a man whom on all acea
sions is the most representative man,
who will do the right thing at the
right time. A man bred on a
Minnesota farm, a typical American
who knows the state like a book and
who already enjoys the friendship and
confidence of the leading men of the
country and who has the united sup
port of the country press of the great
state of Minnesota. The man who
possesses these ideal qualifications is
Hon. Frank B. Kellogg of St. Paul, the
great national authority on corpora
tions and the friend of business men
and farmers alike. The Press strong
ly urges his election because he has
the best ability, the most rugged hon
esty and the kind of a back-bone that
will not break. This paper is support
ing Mr. Kellogg without fear or favor,
irrespective of party lines, for it is
our firm conviction that through his
election we are serving the best inter
ests of this great and growing state
and securing a representative in the
U. S. senate, who will measure up inch
for inch with the grand old man* from
Minnesota, the Honorable Knute Nel
son of Alexandria.M. S. Norelius in
Chisago County Press.
Kalen Acquitted.
The case ot ihe state of Minnesota
vs. Frank Kalen, charged with man
slaughter in the second degree, came
on for trial at the regular spring term
of the district court for Sherburne
county at Elk River on Monday.
Kalen was accused of being re
sponsible for the death of Henry
Woods of Zimmerman, following a dis
pute between him and Woods on the
N. A. Lind farm in Blue Hill, over the
ownership of a stack of hay, on March
6, last.
Kalen secured possession of a 12-
guage shot gun while the dispute above
mentioned was in progress. During
the altercation a shell in the gun was
exploded, and the charge entered Mr.
Woods' left, leg just above the knee.
Death resulted a couple of hours there
after as a result of loss of blood.
The defense claimed that the shoot
ing was accidental. Both parties had
hold of the gun when it was dis
charged, and Kalen denied pulling the
tri^er. The jury di not consume a
gretft deal of time deliberating:, and
returned a verdict of "not guilty"
shortly after retiring.
Kellogg Sentiment Growing.
Hon. Edward Indrehus:There is a
strong and growing sentiment in fa
vor of Frank B. Kellogg for United
States senator in Benton county. The
people I have talked with think Mr.
Kellogg is by far the ablest man of
the bunch of candidates. We want a
big man as a colleague for Knute
Nelson and Mr. Kellogg seems to fill
the bill.
Hon. John G. Lennon, of Minneapo
lis, on the train Monday evening:
Frank B. Kellogg is gaining right
along. There is no discounting that
fact. Personally, I have a friendly
feeling for Mr. Eberhart and shall
probably vote for him, but I realize
that Mr. Kellogg is going to be a
hard man to beat, in fact I doubt if
he can be beaten.
Regular Season Opens Sunday.
Next Sunday the Princeton town ball
team will be seen in action for the
first time this season. "Pongo" Ol
son has scheduled a game with the
Mora aggregation, and the contest
should be a real exhibition. Nevitt
will be on the mound for Princeton,
and the fans will be afforded an op
portunity to size up the well-known
Anoka hurler. The last time Mora
appeared here it was on deck with a
collection of big leaguers, ex-leaguers
and one or two real ball players were
included in the lot. Princeton made
it extremely interesting for them upon
that occasionthe count ttood.l to 0
and the local boys expect to grab
the long end of the score this time.
Turn out and see the opening game
of the 1916 season.
Providence is Responsible.
The little Falls Transcript says that
a Jefferson highway via Mille Lacs
lake and north "through an unim
proved and unsettled region" savors
more of political maneuvering than
common sense. This is the first time
we have ever heard it intimated that
politicians are trying to rob Kind
Providence of the credit of having
planted virgin pine forests and beau
tiful lakes through a certain portion
of the state. If politics is responsible
for filling up Mille Lacs, Leech and
Cass lakes, then we understand what
is meant by saying that some politic
ians are capable of carrying water on
both shoulders.Walker Pilot^
COUNTY DADS MEET
Board of County Commissioners Meet
in Regular Session at Court
House on Tuesday.
Appropriations Made for Road Work
and Other Business Looked
After by Commissioners.
The board of county commissioners
met in regular adjourned session at the
office of the county auditor, Tuesday.
All members were present and Chair
man Cater presided.
The report of the board of audit was
submitted to the commissioners, and
same was duly examined, approved and
ordered published in the official pro
ceedings.
A petition asking for the re-survey
of section 4, Page, was presented to
the board, and it was rejected. The
petitioners refused to file a bond in
the sum of $100 to cover the prelim
inary costs in case the petition should
be rejected at the final hearing, and
for this reason the board took un
favorable action in the matter.
Andrew Mattson of Milaca present
ed a petition to the board asking to
have his 80-acre farm set off from
school district 29, and attached to dis
trict 31. The date of final hearing in
the matter was set for June 6.
Rufus P. Morton, manager and
secretary of the Rural Telephone Co.,
appeared before the commissioners
and submitted a proposition to have
three addditional telephones installed
in the court house. The sentiment of
a majority of the members of the
board appeared to be that no addi
tional phones should be installed un
til the county officials deem it neces
sary to have them, and ask for same,
and the proposition was rejected.
Mrs. Raymond Tilley, who with her
three children is at the poor farm,
appeared before the commisssioner:*,
and asked that two rooms be provided
for her in this village. She stated
that if this were done, and if she was
given temporary county aid, she ex
pected to be able to support herself
and her children. Commissioner Ca
ter was appointed a committee of one to
make the best possible arrangements
in the matter, as it was deemed best for
all concerned, especially the children,
that the proposed change be made.
A plat of the southwest quarter of
section 13, town of Milo, was present
ed to the board by Peter Pluimer,
whose farm adjoins the village of
Pease. Owing to an irregularity in
the dedication the plat was laid over
until next meeting, when the com
missioners will probably approve and
accept same.
On motion duly made and carried
the sum of $400 was apportioned to
each of the villages of Onamia, Wah
kon and Isle, from the county's 1916
allotment of road and bridge money
from the state. The money will be
expended improving certain streets
within those villages which have been
designated as state highways.
An appropriation of $800 was made
to be used improving a stretch of road
just east of Milaca on the north line
of section 31, in the town of Borg
holm.
The usual appropriation of $50 was
made to the Citizens' committee of
Princeton to aid in the proper ob
servance of Memorial day. Princeton
has the only G. A. R. Post in Mille
Lacs county, and appropriate exercises
mark the observance of the day in this
village.
Various applications for tax re
ductions were presented to the board,
and same were adjusted, and after
acting on the usual grist of bills the
board adjourned. The next meeting
will be held on June 6.
Pres. Vincent's Coming Appreciated.
President George E. Vineenfof the
State university is without exception
the best public speaker in the state
of Minnesota. His services as an
orator, especially at this season of the
year, are. in great demand. He has
kindly consented to attend the high
school graduating exercises at Prince
ton and deliver the commencement ad
dress. The school board was, indeed,
fortunate in being able to secure him
for this occasion. There is not a col
lege or high school in the state that
would not be glad and proud to have
President Vincent at their graduating
exercises. The spacious armory will
be crowded with an appreciative audi
ence to listen to President Vincent on
the evening4of June 1st next.
A Druggist Humorist.
In the good old quiet town of Anoka
they have been getting busy with the
"blind piggers," and two of the lead
ing druggist are also in trouble. One
-*&*'
_^__ 5
1W N N ESOTA
HISTORICAL
SOCIETY
VOLUME XL. NO. 22
of them, G. H. Goodrich, waived ex
amination and was bound over to the
grand jury, and he penned a letter to
the Anoka Union which is racy read
ing and stamps Mr. Goodrich as a
philosopher as well as a humorist.
Among other things in his epistle to
the Union he said:
I believe in patronizing our own in
stitutions, and if next fall the powers
that be decide that it is in the interest
of law, order and good government
for me to languish for a spell in jail,
I want to say "be it ever so homely
there's no jail like your own," and I
shall petition to be consigned to the
bastile of our own fair city. However,
I favor heartily the considerate move
ment for repairs upon our local "cool
er" and trust it will be properly ster
ilized and adorned by October.
William A. Carmody.
Another one of Princeton's pioneers
one of those sturdy citizens who con
tributed materially to the early de
velopment of Mille Lacs countyan
swered the ultimate summons when
William A. Carmody joined the silent
majority at his home in Princeton
township, on Friday, May 12. Mr.
Carmody attained the ripe of age of
93 years on December 15 last, and up
to a few years ago enjoyed excellent
health. Feebleness was noticeable of
late, however, and he finally succumbed
to the unceasing march of Father
Time.
Funeral services were conducted at
St. Edward's Catholic church Monday
morning at 9 o'clock, and numerous
friends attended to pay a last tribute
of respect to the departed. The floral
offerings were very beautiful. Rev.
Fr. Willenbrink delivered the funeral
sermon, and the remains were laid to
rest in the Catholic cemetery.
William A. Carmody was born in
County Kerry, Ireland, on December
15,1822. He came to America in 1851,
and after spending one year each in
Ohio and Kentucky, came to Minne
sota. Mr. Carmody first located at
Minneapolisthen known as St. Anth
onyand remained there two years.
He was united in marriage at that
place during the year 1855, to Miss
Mary Sexton, and shortly after taking
unto himself a wife came to Princeton.
For more than 60 years this place has
been his home, and he was one of the
earliest settlers in this vicinity. Short
ly after coming here, Mr. Carmody se
lected his farm on section 32, where he
erected a house and moved the ollo\p
ing year.
During the early period of his resi
dence here the subject of this sketch
encountered the usual privations and
hardships that fall to the lot of those
who make a home for themselves in
a new and unsettled region. Mr. Car
mody was ever industrious, and aided
by John Gleason and Wm. Dimmick he
sawed a portion of the lumber used in
the erection of the first steam saw
mill built in Princeton. An old-time
whip saw was used for the work. The
mill was erected by William F. Dun
ham and others in the year of 1856,
and was destroyed by fire four years
afterwards.
Mr. Carmody was of a quiet and un
assuming disposition, one of those peo,
pie who attend strictly to their own
affairs, but his friends were numbered
by his acquaintances, and his death
marks the passing of a citizen who was
held in the highest regard by a largt
circle of friends. Four daughters
Mrs. Simon Brennan, St. Cloud Mrs.
Henry Philips, Brooklyn, N. Y. Mrs.
Edward Farrel, Helena, Montana, and
Miss Josephine of Princetonand one
son,John, also of Princetonsurvive.
Joseph Burke.
Joseph Burke, a respected resident
of Princeton town, passed over the
great divide at the home of his son,
William, yesterday morning at the ad
vanced age of 87 years. General break
down, due to old age, caused death.
Funeral services will be condupted
from St. Edward's Catholic church in
this village tomorrow morning at 9:30
o'clock. Rev. Fr.. Willenbrink will
officiate, and interment will be in the
Catholic cemetery.
Joseph Burke was a native of Can
ada but has been a resident of this
country since he was a young man.
He came here when 22 years of age
and located near Dayton, where he re
sided up to 24 years ago, when^ he
came to Mille Lacs county, where, he
has since made his home'witfr his son.
He was married in 1853 to Miss Sel
ina Paul, who departed this life eight
years ago.
Deceased was a good and. useful
citizen, and he enjoyed the respect
and esteem of all who formed his ac
quaintance. He is survived'by five
sons and four daughters, viz: Alex,
Minneapolis Henry and Louis, Day
ton Joseph, Brickton William, Long
Siding Mrs. George Augher, Seattle,
Washington Mrs. Jos. L. Payette,
Princeton Mrs. Albert De Jarlias and
Mrs. Louis De Jarlias, Greenbush.
'4
-I
*3
Ui
