NIGHT
EXTRA
Cuenin
-FINANCIAL 'EDITION
HHmatt
NIGHT
JOyvl Jtv
ML. H.-NO. 212
pNCILS PLAN
SPEEDY ACTION
ON LOAN TODAY
fmt Step to Be Taken for
If m,.niaif. nnH Oitv
Development
IvAJLABLE IN AUGUST
Greater &itv Work
jail Uvyiu ill siityuat,
ntroductipn today of loan bills in
-.''! rmine h bills referred to
mTZ'A noVLm.nt.inn of
rtSttlts completed by end of May.
Loan bills reported from Finance
Committee in Common Council on
' -1. ...ililipnftnn in Hows.
pijjcrs'of intention to create the
Passage, of loan bills by Common
Council oil uui v.
Passage by Select Council at spe
cial meeting July 13.
Appropriation bills can be intro
duced pending final passap;e of loan
bills and then can be. passed by both
cJiamDers w w" "j "
This will make the loan moneys
Mailable for contracts early in Au
gust. ,
-p-
- ... rM.nrt hl nftprnnnn will tnko
tpftii flrst steps to lnunch the program of
twiMelphla by tlio passago of tlio $07,100,-
ri..'.A Unxrn ninrnvoiiipnt lnnil bill.
BI'j .in ,, ttm allien n In thr cnnntmpnt
K "It the necessary leslalatlon to make tlio
1 montf avanauiu, uuu i " " i
"tlilcji must precede actual appropriations,
?Jm be introduced In Common Council, nc
fWttmr tb the plan of Finance Committee
roiilrman Gnffney.
& The official count of the loan voto also
Pi - ,.iv in nitv Hall before Judges
KSUake and Patterson In room 200. It Is
i not expecteu imu utu coum wm u-iiuuu
i more than a uay or iwo, uui una mum. uc
ieompleted and certification of the returns
?,. lmfnm nnv Councllmnnlc action can
lUkin on the loans.
' The bills, under tno auminisirnuon a
H tlF Mnnn.l (ll..,l, .1.111 1,(1 1 P POll tt PPll
a. sum ivi ni;tu, otmiJij ..... " .,...--...-.todat
ana referred to tho Finance Com-
f tnillce. mey can men uh i-upuiiuu mtuiu-
rUf On. June l, uio net siaicu im.-ci.iiiK "
JiCotaclls, after tho certification of tho loan
Kfajj' of the hills In tho newspapers la re-
RC.OT?" Dy law ueioro action can uu iukch.
- ADOPTION IN JULY.
STllsiperlod will make tlio actual passage
Jit lie loan bills In Common Council early
lb July. A week Inter thoy can bo passed
i3fiect Council. The departmental np-
EMfrlatlon bills and tho sale of bonds mak
Ifarihe loan moneys avallablo for contract
Bull have to follow tho passage of the loan
Hll by both chambers, sir. GaiTnoy, hovv-
hver. has expressed tho opinion that tho
innroprlatlon bills can be introduced and
E referred to committee pending the final
passage of the loan bills.
mis program, it roiioweu as pinnneu,
Would bako it posslblo to pass tho appro
priation bills by the end of July, and early
?fa AiiffiiR thn flrRt fiiiwlH will lin available
Ktor the construction of Phllndelphia'H com-
lorehensive system of rapid transit lines
fir4 for the other great public Improvements
Fprovlded for In the 114,r2G.OOO loans.
The Finance Committee chairman .expects
i no attacks upon the measures In the course
cttaelr passage through Councils, Ho de
clared ho could see no basis for a contest
ft'ot any kind, as all tho appropriations for
f tno epeciuc purposes nro "car-mariteu in
the, two loan bills. Although it will require
!i two-thirds vote on the final appropriation
HblUs In each chamber of Councils, It is not
etpected that factional differences will be a
.ufflcteht basis for nny group of Councllmen
to oppose openly what tho people have ap-
proud by a voto of nearly 100,000.
PLAXS FOH THANSIT.
The Transit Department will begin Im-
I mediately drawing up detailed plans for tho
flints Included in tho high-speed system,
rtnd preparing specification forms for tho
lettlng of contracts as soon as any money
sis available. Meanwhile, work on tho Broad
Street subway and station under City Hall
f jrul the lrankford elevated ns far north as
: Dyla street will bo pushed with all posslblo
peed.
Ueforo any work ran lin dnnn on thn kpp-
EUon Of the Frankford.llne between Callow-
hill and Arch streets. It will ba necessary
to determine definitely what arrangements
-I1I be made with tlin ThMnillnliln Itnnl.l
tTraru!t Company for the connection of the
ranKiora ''L." with tho present Market
t'ttreet high-speed line. If no agreement for
I connecting the two can lie made, immediate
Eflaru may bo mnde Vor the construction of
c portion of the Chestnut street subway to
f carry the Fiankford trains to the centre
.of the city, where they can connect with
the otlwr city-built high-speed lines.
Boy Injured by Automobile
; William Smith, 10 years old. 2165 East
MUerly street, while crossing Wayne ave
Ju at Berkley street last night, was
wocked down by an Adams express Com-
Jjora automobile, driven by Walter Bentl,
J! Wyoming avenue. The boy was taken
hi a natrol wncrnri tr, fit. T.nWn'n TTnflnltnl.
here It was found that he was suffering
Ijrom a broken rib and contusions about the
Weand body. Bentl waslarrete4 by the
IPOlICe Of tht. nom.ant..,..i cttlnn i,,t m.
kajed upon his promise to appear this
Ifaorqlng for a hearing before Magistrate
Smnock.
PIIIIaABlflLrillA, TlilTJtSDAY, 3LAY 18, 1!)10.
CorrmoiiT, 101S, nr tne Postio Ltnon CoMriNt.
PRICE OKE CENT?
THE ASHCART HAS ITS DAY IN " WHITE WINGS " PARADE
( Ily IiIkit I'liolo I'.ilrol.
Clean-up Week" was opened today by the annual parade of the street cleaners' army up Uroad street. The
ash transport column is shown passing the reviewing stand on North Broad street,
PRIMARY OVER, NO
POLITICIANS RUSH TO
SEE "WHITE WINGS"
"Bill" and "Ed" Vare, Penrose
and McNichol Conspicuous by
Absence From Street
Cleaners' Parade
2000 WORKERS MARCH
THE WEATHER
R,','''r lne storm the calm. The tempest,
I in elecn is over today. The bal-
BlOtUlg WaM hlatni-v voatnrnr hut (h.
Ib r,blX counlnK ot t,le Vte by the news-
r ."- wwiguw any unu cauini; it a
Fciun, Then, too, the mud-sllnglng con
r iutued vutoHiiv, it unnAA nii .!..
oos who throw It demeaned themselves
: JJ 'We children ot the primary. It was
ffi.' unt1 we" ner sundown that the thun.
?uVii wer washed clean the roofs and
Itk nd Pavements and gutters, and wiped
lu U .' ot bat" Put of the air. Today
SwLn true ca,m- tne Peace after the tur
t?? ' the wila, the tranquility after the
funSsr of the Bky.
n a rare mornjng.
p. , . FORECAST
ffontinued cool tonight and Friday;
-r tt9 wtnuv, iituuuu norinwesf.
LOST AND SOUND
: SSWffc1 B :Irft, labia fur neckpiece, Jfon-KHS.mr-nJ..Wrmit.aLi
bis rewra ft
P." rwrd bwyer lOOj Arch t..VlhIl.
k? U u4 4Va4 M ftuVM
There were many prominent absentees
from the reviewing stand In front of tho
State Fenclbles' rmnry, Uroad nnd Itace
streets, this morning two tlnjH after tho
primary election during the two hours
that the street cleaners of the city marched
by. "Kd" and "Hill" Vare did not add
their presence to the auspicious occasion,
although George H DatcRrnmi, pirector of
Public Works, said ho thought that "the
Varcs were somewhere along tho line of
march, watching the parade." Ho gave no
such nssuranco, however, concerning Sena
tor Penrose and Senator McNichol Neither
woi on the reviewing stand, where admis
sion was gained by card only. Mayor
Smith wnH also among the missing. At 11
o'clock it was said he was "coming later."
At 11:20 o'clock it was again said ho was
"coming later." If-ho came at 11:10 o'clock,
ho camo too Into to see nn thing of tho
parade. Director Krusen was present- In
the stand.
Along the lino of march, very few spec
tators stopped to watch. , Bjit that fact
didn't featfe anybody. Tio thousand men
kept marching nnd 7G0 vehicles kept rqlllng
nn rinonito thn Inck of Interest anywhere
except on tho reviewing stand, whfch was
filled with city officials.
Hero everything wns done up in real
style. Tho ushers wore klu gloves and
wore conspicuous by reason of appropriate
ribbons. Director Datesmnn saluted each
division ns It passed, and tho division sa
luted back by dolling hats. Sometimes, of
course, gome of tho men would forget to
observe this technicality of respect. It hap
pened quite often, too, until a volunteer
went about 30 feet below the reviewing
stand and yelled to each man : "J Icy, take
oft your hat when you pass the director!"
Tho Infractions of courtesy wcio less In
number after that.
There wcro nearly a dozen divisions,
with hnif a dozen bands. A squad of pollco
were tho leaders. So spick and span were
the marchers that C. F. Datcsman. father of
tlio director, confessed his ndvocacy of these
annual-parades because they servo to "give
now suits to tho men or at least causo"tho
washing ot the old ones."
When tho street sweepers tho vehicles
came along, with tho drivers sitting with
much dignity In their heats, it wns an
nounced thnt "tlio light nrtlllery was now
passing the reviewing stand." Garbago
caits also attracted much attention. So
dill tho sprinklers and the ashcarts. A
number of the latter wero enclosed In white
canvas. They resembled not such a mun
dane tiling as a repository for ashes, but
that romantic vehicle which tho western
pioneer and Buffalo Bill has made famous.
Tho horses were all dolled up with Amer
ican flags. Thoso of Frank Curran, Dis
trict No. 5, weie further arrayed with the
flag of Ireland. Several of tho contractors
had furnished carnations to their men,
who wore the flowers on such a uniform
angle that they added a pleasing bit of
color to the sceno. Wearing the bit of pink
and carrying nt right shoulder tlio brushes
which they uso to clean up the city's
streets, these men. Indeed, presented a most
beautiful picture.
Among the notables present were J. W.
Pnxton, superintendent of street cleaning,
Washington, D, U. ; J .T. Fatherstone, of the
Street Cleaning Commission, New York;
F F. O'Toole, superintendent of street clean
ing, Pittsburgh ; Theodore Justice, of the
Falrmount Park Commission, and F U.
Ilutherfoul, secretnry of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Anhjals.
BERNST0RFF CALLS OFF
'PROPAGANDA IN U. S.
Directs Gprman Sympathizers to
Guard Against Semblance of
Violated Neutrality
WASHINGTON. May 18. The flrst step
In the new German campaign to stop al
leged lawlessness by Germans In the
United States, was announced by Ambas
sador Bernstorft today. The Embassy
made the following formal statement:
In consequence of cases that have
occurred of late, German Ambassador
Bernstorft bent instructions to all the
Qenman consuls In the United States
to Impress strongly onGerman cjtl
zens living in their districts that it Is
their duty scrupulously to obey the
laws qf the States In. which they re
' side. ,
Although on Bernstorft would not have
Issued such Instructions without direction
from Berlin. It is known that he was In
strumental In showing the German Foreign
Office the wisdom of such a policy He has
for some time argued with Berlin officials
that notwithstanding Germany a official dis
claimer of responsibility fpr German viola
tions of UhUed States laws, such Indepen
dent acta were doing the Oerman cause In
American a great deal o harm, and that
It would be wise for Germany to take even
more energetic steps to convince the United
States that she was in no way responsibly
r k... V.n.1 suw.,,ra-fl U
4VF W.U41 HWy WVII'
PRESBYTERIANS
HEAR PLEA FOR
CHURCH UNITY
Dr. Stevenson Pleads for Co
operation as Salvation
of World
ASSAILS SECTARIANISM
By FUEp E. BAEIt
Uvrno .rdprr Nlaff Correspondent
ATLANTIC CITV. liny IS. It was a
sober message that tile great assemblage of
churchmen who form the t'-'Stli Genernl As
Kcmbly of the Presbyterian Church henid
today from the Hcv. Dr. J. Itoss Stevenson,
president of tho Princeton Theological Sem
Innry nnd the retiring moderator of the as
sembly. Dr. Stevenson was frank in telling why
tho world has not been conquered by
Christian fnith and love. Ho didn't say In
so many words that Christianity has failed,
but ho did say It had fallen far short of
Its aim. and he gave the renson.
As he defined Ihe cause, It was "unmutual
and competitive church life."
Tho moderator's sermon, the first great
feature of every General Assembly, was a
notnblu document. Tho shadow cast over
tho world by the great war In Europo was
reflected again and again in its passages;
and in the prayer which ended It Doctor
Stovenson made a passionate plea for unity
In all good things, which awakened a hearty
echo In the audience which heard him.
It truly Is a wonderful audience Hero
on Atlantic City's Steel Pier aro assembled
800 clergymen and lay delegates from every
They nro here to sit In counsel and Judg
Chrlstlan community of tho hemispheres,
ment on the marly problems that arise each
j ear and compel! the attention of tho Pres
byterian Church. They are brought to
gether from Brond and Spruse ctieets nnd
Slam, from Pottsvillo and Persia, from
California and China, from India, Alaska,
Africa, Porto Itlco, Japan from every
placo where tlio Presbyterian Church sends
Its workers for the common good.
Tho great problems before the Assembly
wero noted by Doctor Stevenson. In his
address Just before ho quit his olllco to
mnko wny for his successor tills afternoon.
It Is tho Idea of Ihe Presbyterian Church
Continued on Titer Si, Column Two
MISSTOWER'S ESCORT
IN FATAL AUTO CRASH
GUARDED IN HOSPITAL
Thomas H. Dougherty, Jr., Club
man, Conscious 'Only at Times,
Can't Describe Accident
That Killed Girl
RENT COLLECTOR WHO
RIDES BICYCLE MAY
- BE COURT JUSTICE
Charles Palmer's Probable Elec
tion to State's Highest Tri
bunal a Nonpartisan
Peculiarity
HIS NEIGHBORS AMAZED
QUICK NEWS
PRIZES AWARDED STREET CLEANERS
Prizes in tho annual street cleaners' parade today were awarded
ns follows: Best street cleaning and nsh-atid-rubbisli collecting
equipment, James Irwin; lionoinblc mention, James A. Mullln. Best
street cleaning, James A. Mullln; honorable mention, Frank Curran.
Best ash'aud-rubbish, estate of David McMahonj honorable mention,
James A. Mullln. First prize for horses, James A. Mullln; second,
James Erwln; third, estate of David McMahon; fourth and tenth,
Flank Curran; fifth, T. L. Flanlgnn; sixth, II. A. Pitch, nnd seventh
and eighth, Edwin H. Vare.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS '
First race, maiden 2-yoar-old", 5 furlongs Wood Trap, 11JJ,
Hnynes, 7 to 0, 2 to 5 and out, won; Bailey, 112, Lof'tus 0 to 1, 2 to
I and even, second; Night Owl, 112, Butwcll, 3 to 1, even and 1 to
2, third. Time, 1:02 1-0.
POSAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL FOR $321,974,579 REPORTED
WASHINGTON, May 18. A postoffice npproprl talon bill carry
ing $321,074,570 today was reported to the Senate. It Increases rural
delivery nppioprlations from $48,000,000 to $53,000,000. The In
terstate Commerce Commission Is directed to Investigate nil plans of
mall pay and meanwhile a yearly Instead of a quadrennial plan of
weighing Is piovided.
Vatican Aided in u-boat crisis, grey says
LONDON, May 18. Sir Edward Grey, British Foreign Minister,
told the House of Commons this afternoon that he had been Informed
that the Vatican had made leprcsentatious to Germany requesting
an abandonment of submarine warfare.
CHARLES PALMER
UNDER NOMINAL ARREST
Thonlas Hnrvey Dougherty, Jr.. bond
broker and clubman. In whose automobile
Miss Oertrudo, Tower was a passenger Sat
urday evening when she jecelvcd Injuries
that resulted In her death late yesterday In
tho Presbyterian Hospital, is under stir
)clllance of a Park guaid. Dougherty Is In
ii condition which makes his Immediate
arrest Impossible, and even obtaining a
coherent account of the ratal mishap from
him Is out of the question lie Is uncon
scious at Intervals, and his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Thomas ,IIarey Dougherty, nnd
his sister Miss Kllso Dougherty, are con
stantly at his bedside In ii prUato room In
the Germantown Hospital. The physicians
declare he is not yet out, of danger. He has
not been apprised of Miss Tower's death.
Dougherty, whose home Is with his par
ents on School House lane, Germantown, Is
suffering from concussion of the brain and
other Injuries. The hospital surgeons
wished to operate, but feared the weakened
condition of the patient rendered this Im
possible for the present. He Is somewhat
Improved todny, his father declared, but not
yet beyond danger- from possible complica
tions. Should io recover consciousness to
a sufficient degree, he will be called upon
to make a deposition as to the circum
stances of the accident which caused the
death of Miss Tower. Then, as soon as ho
can be remoed, he will be formally ar
raigned before a magistrate. In the mean
time, the Park guard surveillance will be
maintained, and he will bo virtually under
ju-rest in tho custody of the hospital au-
U1U4 llicc
Sergeant O'Nellle. of the Park guard, ex
plained this afternoon that while the case
did pot contain any elements which would
warrant the same vigilance as would a mur
der case, yet Captain Duncan deemed It
proper to maintain a watch .over Dougherty
until the young man could be formally
taken befoie a magistrate
Captala Duncan, Jt is said, has Informa
tion that, at the time of the fatal accident
In which the Dougherty machine was over
turned and Its occupants hurled Into the
roadway, the car was traveling at a rate
of 30 miles an hour If this la true, It
would lay the young man open to a charge
of reckless driving, in violation of the Park
speed regulations and aggravate the sert-
ContUiutd on l'ato TUt. Column fhict
s
t't i Staff Correspondent
CHKSTI.lt. May IS All Chester Is
amazed by tho news that Charles Palmer.
Its quiet, unassuming and virtually un
known lawyer, polled so many otes ns 'i
candidate for tho Pennsylvania Supreme
'bench nomination that ho way win over
Justice limory A. Walling, of Hrle. Win
ning tho nomination Is equivalent to elec
tion, for there jvero only two candidates.
No one had regarded Mr. Palmer's can
didacy seriously. Ho had run for olllce be
fore nnd although ho nindo a creditable
allowing, ho never came quite closo enough.
Many persons credit his present showing
to the fact that his uume came first on
the ballot, n result of printing njl names
In alphabetical order. Mr. Palmer thinks
ills advocacy of prohibition is partly re
sponsible. "Prohibition sentiment is -getting stronger
In Pennsylvania, 1 reckon," lie said today
as ho peered over his crescent-shaped spec
tacle lenses. "I guess, though, a lot of
voters didn't know either of us."
Mr. Palmer Is the tjplcal country lawyer.
Ho has an olllce In the basement of the Iaw
Building, at 1- Kast Sth street, and It Is
Just such nn office as you might expect, to
find in the London of Dickens. A plain
black tin blgll with Its edges tinted by rust,
hangs in the door, which is i cached by
descending half a dozen steps from the
street.
Tho sign, a foot square, bears the words
Continued on Puce Two. Column SU
GIRL,l6,EL0PESrC0URT
ENDS HER HONEYMOON
She's Turned Over to Aid So
cietyHusband Held for
Harboring a Minor
Josephine Itussi's elopement and honey
moon ended today when she was turned
over to the custody of ,tho Court Aid (So
ciety by Magistrate Beaton nt Central
Station. Josephine s 16 y,e.irs old and
lives with her father, Anthony llussl, at
345 Hast Illttenhouse street, Germantown
Untl last Friday tho llussl home was in
Ardmore, but the few days slnco her re
moval to Germantown have been eventful
ones to Josephine.
From the testimony before the Magis
trate and the girl's story, it developed that
on the day following her arrival on Itlt
tenhouse street she was smitten by the
charms of Joseph Olive. 24 years old, who
lives at No. 343 on the same street. On
Sunday Uhe learned that this affection was
reciprocal- and on Monday Joseph and
Josephine set out for Baltimore and, matri
mony Her disappearance was noted on
Tuesday and the elder Buss! began pur
suit He overtook the elopers too lata to
prevent their marriage, but with Deteo
the Hodge he caused the arrest and re
turn of the pair- Olive Is under 1500 ball
-pending further hearing on a charge of
harboring a minor, while Josephine ipust
explain why she added three years to her
aga In making affidavit lor the marriage
license. '
TWINING'S PLACE NOT-GOING TO TAYLOR, MAYOR SAYS
Mayor Smith nnnounrcd today thnt he did not intend to remove Transit Director
Twining nnd appoint In his plnco former Director A. Merrltt Taylor, He said ho
hnd every confidence in tho present Director and hu had, not tho slightest Intention
of supplanting him. lie added that ho did not think Mr. Taylor would consider si
proposition to return to the city's service In his old capacity. The Mayor urged the
iPiidcrH to forget the stress of the last few weeks and to "get 'together and woik for
the nominees of tlio party."
FRENCH QUARTERLY BUDGET, $1,500,000,000
1'AHr.S.Mny. 18. -f he-French liudgvt for tho third quarter of-1916 exceeds
$1.1.00,000,000, .Minister of Finance Hlliot nnnotinecd when tho Chnmbcr of Deputies
reopened today. Ho asked immediate Incrnines In duties on many commodities to
meet the heavy wnr expenses.
ALABAMA TROOPS GUARD CONFISCATED LIQUOR
MOBILE, Ala., liny IS. All Ilits.sell County Is under martial law today, with
tho arrival of State troops to Kimid $400,000 of liquor confiscated in raids by State
officials. Authorities of tho county reported themselves unable to care for the situation.
CASEMENT MAY HAVE EARLY TRIAL
LONDON, May 18. Demands by counsel for the crown for n speedy trial of tho
high treason charges against Sir Itoger Casement and Daniel J. Halley led to the
belief today that tho plotters will be arraigned In the High Court of Justice within
a fortnight. That tho prosecution hna completed nil the preparations for the trial
and Is ready to ko ahead with it at onco In the High Court was Indicated by the
Attorney General, Sir Frederick 13. Smith, nt the conclusion of tho preliminary pro
ceedings In Bow street court.
FRENCH STEAMSHIP MIRA, 3650 TONS, SUNK
LONDON, Mny 18. The French .steamship Mlra has been, sunk. Tho Mlra dis
placed 3G30 tons nnd wns 3ir feet long, with a 41-foot beam. She was built In 190C
and wns registered ut Marseilles.
PENROSE WINS
45 DELEGATES;
GOVERNOR, 31
Brumbaugh Opposition
Gains 9 of 12 at-Large Dele
gation to Convention
MAY HAVE STILL MORE
Later Returns Possibly Will In
crease Advantage Smith
Weak -Outside City
$13,300 DAMAGES AGAINST ATLANTIC CITY RAILROAD
Waller It. Titus, of Woodbury, was awarded a verdict of $5000, and Mary A.
Wilson, widow of Thomas Wilson, Into proprietor of tho Half Way House In Wcst
ville, N. .1., was nvvarded $7500 and tin additional verdict of $800 today in a suit
against tho Atlantic City Railroad. The verdict was handed down in the Court of
Common Pleas, Camden, Judgo lloyle sitting. Tho Jury hnd deliberated all night.
Tho suit was brought to iccover damages for injuries cnused on February 23, when
un nutomobllo In which Wilson and Titus wcro riding wns struck by an Atlantic City
express train at Lnwnsldo Crossing, N. J. It was contended thnt tho signal bell failed
to ring, thnt tho engineers failed to blow the engine whlstlo and that there are no
safety gates nt tho crossing. The railroad contended thnt sufficient warning had
been given.
BATTLESHIP MINNESOTA GETS CREW AND SAILS
Hustling' activity enlivened tho Philadelphia Navy Yard today in tho effort to
get together enough men to permit tho departure of tho battleship Minnesota, which
had been ordered to leave this mornlnp; for Norfolk, Vn., to take tho placo of the
battleship Louisiana as migshlp of tho fourth division of the Atlantic fleet. There
wero so few men avallablo that nearly one-half of tho crew of tlio Connecticut was
drafted over to fill tho complement of tho Minnesota. The ship got off on tlmo,
under Captain Casey H. Morgan. Tho Louisiana, whose place tho Minnesota takes
ut Norfolk, will be put In reserve at Now-port News.
BRITISH FISHING SMACK SUNK
LONDON, May 18. Tho fishing smack Research has been sunk. One of her
crew was killed and two Injured. Tlio rest were landed.
"AMERICAN LEGION" SAILS FOR FRONT TOMORROW
WASHINGTON, May 18, The "American Legion," 1800 strong, will leave Toronto
tomorrow night for the battle front s.omewhere In France, nccoiding to reliable In
tormation reaching Washington last night, The American regiment, made up of
former United States regulars, veterans of the Spanish-American War nnd tho
Philippine campaign, will bo part of about five or six thousand troops sailing at
that time. '
ROOSEVELT TO INVADE FORD'S HOME CITY
NKW YORK, .May 18. Colonel Roosevelt left Oyster Hay today to carry a mes
sage of preparedness to tho home of Henry Ford, the pacifist. He will speak In De
troit tomorrow morning and doesn't expect to mince any words In telling what he
thinks of the automobile king's views.
HINDU TROOPS Itf EGYPT REPORTED IN MUTINY
W3RI..IN. May J8. A mutiny ofJIIndu troop In Egypt Is reported by the Neue
SJuerlcher Zeituiig, the Overseas News Agency asserts. It Is said that In the recent
righting near the Suez Canal the Hindus hi many cases refused to obey orders, and
that fighting took place between the soldiers and Australian officers, causing o, large
number of casualties.
GERMAN TORPEDOBOAT SUNK BY GERMAN-MINE
COPENHAGEN. My 18 A German torpedoboat ha8 been sunk by a German
mine off Falsterbo, Sweden,, according to the Berllngske Tldende's Malmo correspond
ent. All but one roan pf the crew were' -saved.
v
Later hut Incomplete returns received nt
tho headquarters of tho Ilemihllrnn Hltiin
Committee from various county chairman
iiiroiigiioui ino stato indicate that only
three of the candidates on the; Brumbaugh
slnto for delcgato-at-Iargo to tho Republican
National Convention will bo elected. Nino
of the 12 delegntnH-nt-largc, It now appears,
will bo Penrose men.
Mayor Smith polled n light voto outside
of Philadelphia, nnd was defeated by a con
siderable vote, The returns from tho larger
counties no,w Indlcnto that Penrose elected
from 45 to 50 of a total number of 76 dele
gates. Ttfio reports received at the State
Commlttco show tho following 12 mon elect
ed dclogates-nt-largoi
BRUMBAUGH SLATE
HOVllllNUIt. MAHTI.N (1. lUlUMIIAUOII,
. riti:i:r.ANi itr.NimicK.
WJI.M'AM J. llUltKi:, Htnte Senator.
PENROSE SLATE
hiinatok iioii:h PUNItOSn.
si:.Ajrou onoitni: t. oi.ivr.it.
JOHN WANAMAKr.lt.
AI.1IA II. JOI. V.HON.
coloniii. jami:h i:i.vi:kson, it.
i). i,. (in.i.nsfii:.
i:. v. iiAiicocic.
W. IIAItltY llAICnit.
JOS. O. AIIMHTKONO, Mnj-or Pittsburgh.
Tho three remaining candidates on the
Penrose slato are polling a high vote and
may displace either Kendrlck or Burke In
the Ilnnl ofllclat returns. These men are
Guy W. Moore, Georgo R. Scully and Wil
liam 13. Rice.
Tho Governor Is leading the field of can
didates for delcgato-at-large. Incomplete
returns Indicate ho will pull through with
him two or threo of his candidates for dele-gates-at-large.
Tho largo voto for Gover
nor Brumbaugh Is a personal triumph for
him over Penrose. Tho Senator, however,
will contiol a majority of tlio delegation;
also the Republican State Committee.
Returns from 4G50 districts of the 6891
In tho State, including all of Philadelphia
and most of Allegheny County, show how
far Governor Brumbaugh ran ahead of his
tlckot. The Governor Is leading Senator
Penroso by 0877 votes.
VOTK FOR "BIO FOUR."
Tho voto for the "Big Four" la as fol
lows :
Oovirnor IlrumbniiRli ....... 143,420
. .f-rniitiir J-cnroac .......v........ 130,343
Srnntor Oliver 123,704
Muyor Smith , . . 130,071
Returns from 4088 districts) Including all
of Philadelphia and roost of Allegheny
County. Indicate that John R. K. Scott, of
this city, who was a candidate for re-election'
(is n Congrcssmnn-nt-Iarcc, has re
ceived tho nomination by n safe majority.
Mr. Scott was opposed by Senntor Penrose.
The State Committee Is receiving no re
turns on the Congressional contests. The
returns for the two contested nominations
Into show the following:
' Sroff 130,351
Snbrl 117,303
Mi-I.iiuelilln 113,070
J.urriill 107,833
. sobi:l sedms'a winner.
Isador Sobcl apparently has been nomi
nated over Daniel F. Lnfean, who was
seeking renomlnation on tho Brumbaugh
Vare ticket. He is running a little ahead
of Joseph McLaughlin, of Philadelphia, but
the districts where McLaughlin was strong
est have nearly all been heard from.
Speaker Charles A. Ambler Is running
close to Senntor Charles A. Snyder
throughout tho State. His Increased ma
jority In Philadelphia pkices him within
less than 10,000 of Snydcl-, with Allegheny
nearly all In and 2200 districts to be heard
from. The nomination of Snyder Is claimed,
however, by the Republican State Commit
tee. ,
Revised figures at noon today on the
Philadelphia voto for Auditor General,
which include scattering divisions npt In
late last night, and which, therefore, were
not shown In Uio ward tables, indicate the
voto as follows:
Amlilrr 84,853
hnjilpr 70,844
Returns from 5061 districts out ot 689t
in tho State, Including all of Philadelphia
and much of Allegheny, give:
Snj der , '170,013
Amlilrr 100,310
PENROSE MAN FOR TREASURER.
Another Penrose lieutenant has been
nominated on the State ticket. Harmon M.
Kephart, of Connellsvllo, had little opposi
tion, and his election will give Penrose
control of the State Treasurer's department,
as well us tho Auditor General's office.
These are two of the most important de
partments In the Stato Government.
Tho victory of the Penros forces In the
fight for control of the State Committee
means that Senator Penrose will be elected
National Committeeman In the place of
Henry G, Wasson. when the State Commit
tee meets to organize next month. Under the
law, the State Committee must meet within
30 days after It Is eleced. Wasson was
elected committeeman In 1012, when the
Progressives captured control ot the State
Committee,
CLOSE VOTE FOR SUPREME COURT'
It looks as It the official returns will be
needed to determine whether Justice Wall
ing, of Erie, or Charles palmer, of Dela
ware County, has been nominated for Jus.
tlce pf the Supreme Court on the nonpartU
san tlckeC
Palmer Is a Prohibitionist and a Friend;
Walling, at his home In Erie, was confident
last night that he had been nominated, but
the meager returns that have come in on
the nonpartisan fight show that It was close.
In many election districts throughout (he
State no record was kept of the nonpar
tisan vote, and that la complicating the re
sult. Justice Walling had the support of
both factions and the Indorsement ot.tha
bar associations of the pity and State and
little opposition to his nomination had been,
looked for
SWEEP FOR PALMER
A. Mitchell Palmer has won decisively
over Michael Llebel. Jr. for Democratic
National Committeeman, and has carried
through with him the entire Reorganization
ticket. Returns from 4023 dtatiicU, In
cluding all of Philadelphia, and some of Al
legheny, give, the following-
Palmer $0,471
Uebel .. 30,7a
Llebel apparently carried five q( the 67
counties m the State They wero: Jbila
delphla, where the yote wub Palmer. (494 s
Llebel, p69; Erie, SSI t 5J, (Tnwfjc
m
