THE WEATHER
Fair and cool tK-day
EC AST. M
o-morrow,
IT SHINES FOPx ALL
wssterljr
Hlehest temnerrftur state
58; lowest, 50.
Detailed wcithor, jMniiitf marl
0114 on pj,5o la
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 261.
PRI1
TWO CENTS.
fxy
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916. Cojiiripfif, 1016, by the i'u.i Printing and Publishing Association.
Jstltl
JK(i
vvmor. 1
HUGHES AND
HARMONY, IS
LEADERS' AII'rCpT
1
1 'Initial Lightning.
I) 11 It to .IllSt 100 hlM'U 111 T-
mon! Election and IHMLLJAXT OI.ATOK:
Oregon Forecast.
SAV JIE'LL ACCEPT IF
vvpv to tv i vnmi'f '
lUlli lO A J .UlJLo I
I
Mouse to Ho Invited Into ct"" ," frnm wlthl" ""' 1,1 1
OIIM Mi IH. 1IIWIUI 1I1HI few , lays n a likely "dull! huise' In the.
Cliieao'o Conference to i rvrni of ',i0 convention ticm iieuim. uoi
" The politicians, especially tho "regit-
AVei't Split. larr." look on .Senator Harding ns a po:'
' slblo life saving appliance politically
1 considered. He has told them frankly
.slliNr.TnN, May 17 ItcpuUlcan lhntIlc woul11 n a, pi the nomination
leaders arc going to try to get together f"r Vice-President and that ho Ih not
Ip advance of the Chicago convention on unlous about tho Presidency. Mr.
programme that will assure harmony., Harding '-s very much pleaded with ser
The belief here Is that preliminary con- xlcc ln Senate.
f.Tcnre will tend toward the nomlna-l "e -'elected temporary chalr
tion of Charles K. Hushes as the party's ' the convention localise he U
rstidldate. F.vldeticc Is dally growing considered one of the most Impressive
ttionscr In Washington that many lead-!01"1 Plmjuent public speakers. He has
ers already have reached tho conclusion j "' " 1 political orator and
Put the convention must choose Mr.
Hushes or some one Mr, llooscvelt pos.
tloly would not support. Under the cir
cumstances the drift has set ln strongly
tcn.ard the Jurist.
Party leaders here believe that Mr. j
r.oocielt would support Hushes nnd(
ttiev also are satisfied that the Justice )
1 accept a nomination tendered to hlmj
b a unanimous vote,
A report was put In circulation here
tn.iUy by Progressives that at the
openlnc session of their convention on
J,me 7 they will nominate Mr. Roosevelt
mid then await the action of the He
pubhcins. Doubt Is expressed that Mr.
Itnose.elt will countenance such pro
ce.luie by tho Progressives. Statements
made heie privately by Intimate friends
0! the r.-Presldent are to the effect
th.v he Is averse to running as a third
candalale under any circumstances, but
tli it he might follow such a course If
crtaln of the favorite sons were chosen.
Vermont Add Impel. n.
T e election of Hughe, delegates m
Veuoont has given additional Impetus to
the Hughes movement.
Advices received from Oreson. where
tiltm.ir es win no neiit on c riuay, are,
tu 'he effect that Hushes sentiment g I
io.v. ,' and that the delegates pledged
head of
lo e e..r.-"nting
.r ,, Z,r.?n
tu the Justice will gallop In
ah ih.. .,.... th.it come, fron. th
tourtr.v at large has a depressing effect 1
.1. ... .... r -i.
uji,u lie- JHU1K.S,.". a ui me iniuuii: pmi
candidates who were confident up to a.1
eek ago that they would be able to
effect a combination that would give the ,
prize to the middle wesl.
The news from Pennsylvania that Sen-
tor Penrose has landed only about halfj,
the delegation from that State ha.s been
a blow to tho hopes ot the Fairbanks
...i'.nTu
Penrose ultimately would land the Pcun
iilv.i!ii delegation In a block for In-,
diara s favorite son. As a result the
11 tvement to make Mr. Fairbanks the
V, e-Presldentlal candidate Is sathering 1
tor e mid Ilia nninasers apparently are I
ma.ns a play now to land the second
Vloose .liny lie Asked In. I
There Is good reason to believe that ,
ftogressive leadera will take part In the ,
Itepuhllcan conference to be held In Chi- ,
cio Just preceding the convention. In
fi.it t.iere Wa disposition among regu-1 The tight of th contractors u, set
Uis to invito Progtesslves to send repre- possession of the site of tho new inui.lc
tH'ntatlvea 10 this conference In tho hope t ipal garbage plant on Arthur Kills,
that hv an Interchange of views all ' Staten Island, to begin work on the
danger nf another third party split may , buildings, began In earnest last night
b. avj.iled. when a watchman put 0.1 the grounds
In a letter received hero to-day from by the Staten Island Vlgllnnce Commit
Gran, die W. Mooney, manager for ex-I tee was kidnapped by twenty-five armed
Sei.,1' ir llurton, Mr. Mooney made epc-1 men
cifli denial that ho had entered Into a Kdward T. Doyle, a Ptaten Islander,
"favor to son" pact for tho purpose of ( sot title to a part of the meadow land
p eve.,. in;; the nomination of Itoosevcll on Prall Island three weeks ago. He
or Hiighes. I made the title over to tint vlsllance coin-
Mr .M'smey admitted having met some I mltlee, which has been Increased to 10"
of t i m-n Interested In other favorite members and has been authorized to
ne iiooius, Nut denitd lit had ngrecil to , take title to all properly 0.1 the meadows:
a .-illume, as a representative of Mr. a.s fast as It can be secured. Doyle
Burton, to combine against any other , built a cabin 011 Prall Island nnd a
i d 1 .te. in a statement prepar.d fortnight watchman and a day watchman
Tub St.v. Mr Mooney said : were kept there by the vigilance com-
1 1 .iv. novtr had any conference with
tre purpose, of framing any combinations
of h sort. I have nevi r made, any
prijio'itiou of this kind. None has been
nude to m by any campaign candlduto
'r .no one repiessntliig any other can
didate. I pave never In any way, shape
iianuer made any suggestion which
' u'd lay on any Ohio delegate any
cibUsat ion (xcept that which thty volun
tri a .sumed "
CLAIM UO FOR HUGHES.
Jnllei.i Adherents Snr He llnn
Mnjorlly of . V. Ilelem.les.
Ilepo'ts comlns yesterday from Wash
Ingion to the Increasingly favorable
tui'i of public opinion toward the noml
r,.i on of Justice Hughes for tho Presl
'tm y by the Republican national con-
ve-iM on encouraged Ills adherents In
X w Vork to go a little further than '
tic l.avo hentoforn In showing what 1
hi si eliL'th 1s III the ilelcentinn feiim I
1 State. I'p to this tlmo tho Hughe
n n 1 ive been cm tent to claim a major
It i.f the delegates. Yesterday they
t. ve .lie figures wh.ch they way piovo
me .intention. t
I' '-..is It.irned that tlie tabulations 1
n - (de twenty of the delegates lo Kllhu !
1' t These twenty arc "signed up." 1
" are Hiiro to vote for (he former
i"n on Ihe llrst ballot nnM to vote
t"r him Juht us inns as the Knot man
b s think Hi. re Is a chance of hi
l'- 'i 1 g t mi nomination,
r . 1. theie ae llfteen. perhnns elch
Km delegates who n.e clatud as Minister Wollenbers, staten t it'll 11 en
'entilitiul " These men have so far not lertalns no alarm with icganl In the
1.1. Ihflr minds.
Ihe other delegate, that !s In say
fc
-.i.ne, are claimed by tho Hughci
11 1
of -four is a majority of tho New
Y ii.'eg.ition, and with forly-iilne on
' O.ei can ri b the lei.deiH feel
t uiev have done falrlv well, inn
iUiinns Iho difficulty ot linking a good
Conffnucii on FIJIh Page,
SENA TOR HA RDING NO W
BOOMED AS ' DARK HORSE'
WON'T HUX AS SECOND.
' Wamiimitun, May 17. Senator War-
r''" ,,!,r,l,nB nf ol1'" w1'" ""
,lu Keynote at din national P.rpublliati
ronvrntloii at Chicago, Is within the
range of the Presidential lightning
He
has lectured before Chautauquas many
times on the "I.lfe and Character of
Alexander Hamilton.' He Is at home as
a speaker at the political meetlns, In the
legislative assembly, at banquets or a
commercial consress.
Ilnrdlnar n MrikliiK I'ljiure.
Senator Hardlns Is Just past 50 ami
,!,! ..v..-.. ..f Blv f...i( I'itt .-.,lt nrii.
wl011tli wlth halr fBMy tlnsed with
cr.iv. in npiiearanco ne woks
llko
Poraker and McKlnley Wended.
Mr. Hardlns Is a newspaper editor.
When he was .1 youns man his father
purchased an Ohio newspaper plant and
- 1. .... ..la n'lti. Inttitr v.'.m hi.
enthusiastic over James O. lllalne and !
the Chlcaso convention of ISM that he
abandoned the newspaper, spent inot-t of
his assets for a lllalne campaign hlsh
hat and by the nld of a railroad pass
Issued to his newspaper made his way to
the Chlcaso convention.
He tarried so Ions In his devotion to
tho cause of the plumed knlsht that
when he returned he found that an old
ciedltor of the newspaper had taken It
over under a juiigment execution mm ne
was out of a Job. He went to work 011
the Democratic paper, but the editor got
nnsry because he Insisted on wearlns the
Ulalnc high hat and fired hint.
Then he hired out to another hows
paver In Marlon, Ohio, tho scene of his
1 earlv newspaper ventures, uui inc i.y
,.' , , . .u. u. an...i
envelope lingered . 1 lo. B tha he Joined
his own age, ull
w ? ";""" '
enthusiastic lllalno men. each wearing .t
Mr with U.St'O. which one of their ,
number not Mr. Harding nau in
hcrlted.
After ft vear
. .
one 01 uie m.ui.i
. , , . . i..--..-- fnn,
topped out because the Income from
the plant was not satlsfactor . Mr
Harding stayed and worked the more
diligently. Later tho second Welded to
'Hilt and Mr. Hardlns purchased his In-
. - ;
na(TlT T I 1TTV iVITVlT A TIC
BAND KIDNAFb
GARBAGE SITE GUARD
gj.(. Island Vigilance Kill-
ployee Round and Oafred by
Contractors' Army.
mittee.
James Farrr.cr. who was on duty there
last night, reported shortly after 'mid
night to the Ninth Hrnnrh Detective (lu
tein that ho had b' en sitting In his shack
at t ;Hfi P, M. when the mtUJllo of a
sun appeared through the window and
he was told to surrender Then ho was
bound and gagged, thrown Into a launch,
put out at the foot of Fiftieth, street,
Hrooklyn, and told to go home. He says
1i1.1t about ten men. armed with shot
guns, went In the launch with him while
fifteen more remained on the Island.
The Ninth Ilranch detcctlvrn sent to
Harbor A nt tho Mattery for a police
launch, and Detectives McKerrlck nnd
Ackerinali went down In a launch from
the Ninth Hrancii. Old Statin Islaliilcni
said last night that the -sillce would
not be nble lo reach the cabin on Prall
Island because the water about then
was too shallow for their boats.
(Inffnoy, Cah.isen & Van Ktten. Ill"
i (infractor, claim tltlo lo the Prall
Island nieado,v land, which was held by
Ihe vigilance committee, and members
0. the conimll'co said last night that It
was these contractors who lr.d sent thn
ariih'd force.
swedtcF wiFTeace.
(ioirrio. I llcrli.re Crlnln llwr
Viand Islnilds I Pn.sed.
Stockholm, via London, May 1". In
both Chamber the Itlksd.ig statn
inents were made lo-d.ty on behalf of Ihe
Swedish (iovemniei.t to tho effect that
If Sweden has recently witnessed a crisis
during which she was on Iho vcige of
war that period has definitely passed,
The Oovernnient. through Foreign
Itusslan foHlllcatlous on ui" .vianu
IslamlH, and fl.at mere in noinius e.sn
that coul 1 prevail upon the country to
abandon ler neutrality. Leader of the
Socialist, Conscivatlve n ml LllnT.ll
parties who t'l'ih th Moor after him ev
pressed their complete cn.illilei.i'e In the
(Siivcrntnciit The session was a con
v Indus niantfeslatioi. of I be united 1 mini
of the Swedish people nnd th Oovern
nient nguliibt entrance Into tho conflict.
Senator Warren G. Harding.
te et on defericd payments 11 ml thru
unp.o.ed h.m a foreinan
The Marlon Slur K like the main of
rii.i-t.it .1 seed and to-day It Is a proix r
ever 'is' m't i'he only ' one who l" Kettln 1
a k I Income out of the newspaper, for ,
he turned it Inio a conperatlvt concern
a few e..rs ado, c.illlns ln the old em- 1
liloy.es and permitting them to purcha-e ,
stock on deferred payment. Just as hi
had stalled.
Senator Hardlns also Is a business
man. He Is Identified with many local
Institution of .Marlon, a city of about
-. nan imIh, 1. 11 mi. 11.. u .iirector in two 1
lui.ilier companies, stockhohlei ln s. viral
manufacturing plants and u bank dlrec-
"senator Harding began bis political
carter as a follower of Senator 1'oraker
and his last political struggle was In
J.oinmat'.o;; Kr. "iPZZZx 'as
St. te Senator, I.leulenar.t-.lo. ernor of
Ohio and was an unUi-'eful candidate
fur tio. ei nor In l'.'lo, going down uiub
the avalanche that burled the T.ifl Ad-
ministration In Ohio, It'.O.uOO Ilepub-
llcans stayed away from the pol'.i
Ideal for Itcuuliira.
When Senator Burton declined to be a
cindidate for the Senate in 1!M4 Mr.
Harding entered the race against I-'or-akcr.
defeating him and winning the
elei tion by a great majority Senator
Hardlns ' dcribe, aj the ideal leader
jf the regulars. He is a party man I
lie believes the way to correct errors ,
of the party Is by discipline within the
party He clings to the McKlnley Ideals.
He believes tho tariff will be the Issue
this year, and Is a strong friend of
American chipping.
'The tariff Is the paramount Ismio of
191." he said, "ft cannot Ik- relegated
to the secondary class of Issues. Our
foreign policy will be fieely discussed,
especially Mexican affairs.
Another Issue of. primary Importance,
1,0 Uu' f"r revision our
merth.int m.ir.ne. ocean ships are of
peculiar Interest to nil our p. ople. The ;
i;"o"c or .111 vi i.igir hi ine interior 01
u e jus. as Keen in.eresv ;
those who live inioii our seacoasts.
Senator Hardlns believes that the ne
cessity for American trade expansion
makes it Imperative that emigres pro
vide an American merchant marine.
DOCTOR VANISHES OH
EVE OF HIS WEDDING
Onesls Assemblo for Poiisli
keep.sie .Marriasre, but l.ride
jrrooin Tan't He Found.
Pofoiiiirrrsm, V V, Miv K Dr
rreeman S. Ollrlen, a young Wnp
plngers. Falls physician, who wa to
have married Miss Agnes Olive Tlmmlns,
a leader In Poushkecpsle's younser set,
this afternoon, has been missing since
ar'y Monday mornlns.
He vanished at 1 ;.1i1 o'clock In the
mornlns. at which time a Wnpplngcr
I'alls policeman saw him driving his
car through the village. More thnn 100
out of town fri.nds came for the wed
ding, which was to have been informed
at f. o'clock this afternoon,
Tim police found the automobile In a
garage at lleacou. The proprietor told
detectives that the doctor drove his car
In lit 7 o'clock ami said he wanted
,t washed and ready for him at !i. He
failed to return.
The doctor left two medicine cases In
the car. Inasmuch as he often carried a
largo amount .if money, some of his
friends believe he has met with violence
others advance the suggestion thut he Is
a victim of amnesia,
A dozen friends hid been Invlleil to
attend a bachelor dinner at the Nelson
House last night, but tho doctor failed
to appear and the friends were told
that I.u bad not arranged for Iho dlnnei
Miss Tlmmlns says she last snw Dr.
O'llrlen on Sunday night, when he was
a dinner guest at her home The doctor
ninl Miss Tlmmlns obtained a marriage,
license the day before.
Dr. o llrlen, who Is 2S years old, came
to Piiughkc. pslo from !osieri thive years
ago. Miss Tlmmlns, who is 2d. was
graduate.) from Putnam Hall, a Vnss.ir
preparatory school, Inst year.
COL. BIDDLE FOR WEST POINT,
linker Values Army llngliieer
Miieeee.l I'.il, Toivniile.
Wasiiinc.ton, May 17. Col, John Kid
dle, IT. S. A. engineers olllce, In charge
of river and harbor work ut the port of
ll.iltlmore, was named to-day by Secre
tary of War ll.iker as superintendent ot
the Culled Slates Military Academy at
West Point, succeeding Col, Clnrenco P.
Towusley, He will lako charge on
July I.
Col, Middle wan l.orn In Detroit Feh-
niiuy 2. is.'y, and wa graduated from
West Point In issl lb. specialized In
engineering and receiveii his commission
ns Second Lieutenant In thi. Ki.glneer
Corps nf tho army. During the Spanish
American war he served ns a Lieutenant
Colonel of volunteer and saw iictlvo ser
vl.e In Cuba and Porto Itlco.
He was III chaise of river and hnibnr
wmk at Nashville, Tenn.. from ism to
D!.S and nl San Francisco from IIMI7 lo
l',il llo Is a member of the American
Society of ' It'll Knglneers, the Society
of the War of 1M1!, the Order of the
Camion ''ml oilier lending clubs.
IHIKAT IIKAIl SI'lllMl IVATim.
t)r the c'ue uf tlx slun toppered kottlM.
IV.
AUTHORS TO VOTE
ON FORMING UNION
l.caiiiie to Consider Affiliating
With Federation of La
bor To-day.
WANT MOVIK KOYAKTIKS
May Tie l'p Industry With Aid
of Camera Men and
Mechanicians.
The Authors l.easue of Ameilia. of
which Winston Churchill Is the president
and Theodore llooscvelt the vice. presi
dent. Is conslderlns tho advisability of
Join riK the American I'ederallou of
Labor under the name of the Interna
tional Pen Pushers t'nlon, or soinethlns
like that
A de.lslon ..111 he reached probably
this afternoon at a mtetlnc of the coun
cil and the executive committee to be held
at the City Club at 1 o'clock. Col.
Hoosevelt has been asked to ome Into
twn and express hl opinion nnent the
Atr.etlcan ..deration of Labor a .1 uon. principally the scarcity or touu. marine controversy. iiKmiiiK. Is not et In slsht"
medium throimh which authors may Their liberation .ame as the result of .Wither the Pope's tnc.i!e nor I'resl- "t ..'ould be better to strive for peace
better their condition, and, according to ""Id luarchlns by I.amrhornc's jlinl W0n's leply will be made public. ! now than later," concludes the writer.
Iho bt belief ctcrday amons the I command and an early mornins attack. The Pope's messase was conveyed to the ' , .M-,r,,ll',v Crlspoltl's article Is con
officers, he will be on hand. ' 'lth " l'-'U n.anaK.sl to escape by ,..sll,,.,lt ,,y ilur, otu..no. tho AK,st.,llc '"tl.ne th.l't iho p'slloilty of tl...
It Is the purpose of those susKestlnn ' K01 furlune. The t.-captuie came with- ii,.,.Kate, and the President's reply to the Kaiser's abdication Is mentioned, and
the Idtvi to make the Authors I.easuo
a tuilon organization in every sense 01
the word, that is, as much of a union
, j,lruclural ,rnn Workeis. the Hod
farrier, or any of the r.st of thein.
There Is no expectation, nor apparently
1I1V ,i0ire, to better the condition of
."-
or theatrical managers, but there Is a
iieclded conviction amons the boosters
of the scheme that tho moving picture
men should be brought to time.
Coiniilltlee Hnsy for 11 WecL.
A special committee has been at work
for a week InvrMlsatlng the American
I'Vderatlon of Labor and trying to find
out from Mr .iompers Just what can be
gained by alllllitlns 'vlth his organiza
tion, and that committee will report to
the council tw.d executive committee of
the leauue that the Idea Is "a bully one
grab It " The member of this committee
I :it u Thompson lluclianan, chairman i 1
lie iicacli, Kins Parker llimer. ..eorsc
Creel. Walter P Katun, Oenrge Harr.down the picket line', and the silent
McCutcheon. Lewis Sherwlii. Leroy Scott .
and Frederic C. Howe.
It Is by no means a certainty, however. ,
that this committee Is going to meet the
executive committee and the council in
an altogether receptive mood. Humor of
the plan to afllllntn with the Federation
of Labor has already spread and In Its
spreading has not met with uiiouallfled
l ii 11,,,.!. 1 fit. I.ila ...in. a .if Ilia ultMilimi
walltlng Delegate Thompson Huchanan
nac , overloiuacious vesterday. It
learned, however, that Hrander Mat-
thews Is likely to lead the opposition. If
opposition dues develop this afternoon.
Mr. lluclianan explained yesterday
that the authors are now and have been
working uphill In their efforts with tha
moving picture manager, Some timu
ago a committee from the Authors
League visited some of the priducei.
suggesting uniform rontracts and other
things and were, as lluclianan put It.
"laughed at."
This reception got the dander of tho
authors up and now they propose to
stiiko If the moving picture producer,
will not come to time. It Is said, for in-
stance, that mi author gets from S'iOO to
$1,500 for an Idea or scuiario which It
cost the producer not muie than !K.Qh)
to prepare- for use and from which h
ultimately reaps not less than $35,000
Waul a 10 Per nil. Mmrr,
"What we want." said Walking Dele-
gate lluclianan, "Is a uniform contract
giving the nuthor something like 10 per
rent. That is, for a picture which nets
the producer or distributer $3r.,O0O the
author should get at least JViOO "
The American Feneration 01 i.anor
wi 'successa''et'ot Znl
actors followed the stage hands and
obtained several things to their advan-
taee. such, for InMance. ns extra pay
for Appearing on Sundays In cities west
of Detroit.
Now w lie the authors are preparing
. ... . .L .
to linionizi. inemsc.ves ,,. niniiT.! 11
and mechanicians employed In the movie
business nro alllllatlns with the Ameri
can Federation of Labor.
And Just here Is when the nuthors
will obtain the dub they want. With
practically all of the movlns picture
emplovecs organized, the authors will
be able to make their demands on the
producers nnd If they are not granted
call out the other employees in tint
trade rind thus tie It up as fust as n
tailor' knot.
The Authors league now numbers
,r.. iim., t.200 memherH. It st..r.e,l
..111, n... more than 100 ftv the , .nil of
this year It Is expected there will bo
11,000 members In a won, that the
n.li u-rllvm uill ,,ieutiil ,.11.1
"
front.
The league numbers practically nil of
the successful author of the country
In Its membership.
GERMAN TROOPS BEG FOR FOOD.
s.tI Soldier Share XVII h l.nml
utiirni slnny Deserllons,
.special Cable Dttpalrh In Tun St s
Ixindon, May IS. -A (lenevn despatch
to the 7)ill(l Vrprrss says ;
"(Jerman soldiers, chiefly elderly mem.
hers of the Lamtsturm, on the Sniss
Alsathui frontier, have begun to beg
food from Ihe Swiss soldier, who out
of pity an sharing their t.itlous with the
Hermans,
"Tin latter say they Imve pot tasted
meat for a week They seem famished
and depressed Desertions are becom
ing morn frequent,''
GERMANS STORM KITCHENS.
Vinrl.ittenbnr lln.ln Street Distri
bution Ilecaiisc nt Hint.
Special Cable lleipntch In Tun Sun.
AMHTritPAM, via Uindon, May 17.
Tho Ilcrtlner Tnyrhlatt announces that
the municipality of Charlotte!. burg has
cancelled II scheme of food distribution
In tin. street In consequence of im lnc.
dent which occurred Monday. On that
day, tho paper stales, two mobile,
kitchens with l!nn Hires of food .un.
sent Into the streets, wlieic.ipon a crmvil
of 4,000 person slorinoil Ihem, making
it Impnstlhlr to distribute the food.
The Taaclilalt tui'i that the scheme
was Inaugurated with Intiuftkiont meana.
U.S. TROOPS IN WILD
NIGHT BANDIT HUNT
Major Laiifrhorne's Forces Snr
round Mexican Town, .Save,
Dormer and Payne.
TIMP ITLL OF I'KHILS
Dash Over Desert Made With
out Ifosl After an
All Day March.
ii. i'i nvii i einn.k
II; IMnit P. (.llllliiNs.
IUnciio Hant I'i!, Mr. Pino. Coahull.i,
Minlco, elshty-llve miles south of Ub nn
Slirllli?!'. Te.. Mm- 11 ) M.v Ir.lti I
'
Miurl. i to I.enieis, Tex., by army I
fl..T.t .elt'rt ... .t ,.ii.n. 'e... .1.... t?
...... 1 ....iliiiiuii, ,t-.,
James
1) enter
American
and Monroe Pane, ,
nesro
Itlzcns. held prisoners
I15 Mexkan b.iiidlts t-lno- May C. wile
rescued at this nhu e tn-.hiy by I'ldteil
Slates tioop" undi 1 command of Major
. ,e , 1, .
... 1. i,.ini,iio.ne.
lloth prisoners are In sood health, aN
U uh they have suffered fro... prlva-
out the firing ut u shot.
Last night after a Jiard day" march-1
Ins across the desert Major Lahshorne 1
tamped his two troops at a water hole , llec.uise of the exchanse of continual
which Is c.illn! Asuil.i and Lis 1.1I- rations between the Vatican and the
clas, It Is situated in the midst of a President peace rumorHwere again ctir-
t.i.-l. ti mil 1 1 1. lit ...fit b,..nid 01 hfivn lifi.li .,.. In illi.lnwillii "lrr1..a lii.r.. u llSlinl.
Iiilwtu.a lit, fri. in Hi.. ....lift-.. ,tf Ih.i ile.Tf. 1
A f . w lam. lies of Mexican peons live
about the s tall oasis. ,
At lo o'clock at night a Mexican boy
reached the camp. He as taken before '
.Major I-anghorne arid MUcstloned. He 1
sam ne came irom rne 1.1 rum ranc.i,
tl.lrtv miles fniihei south, am when
pier-.d for information ciii i rnins the
trail of the bandits admitted that the
band had been making Hi Pino H" head-!
platters since the raids on the American
border settlements.
(initio' 111 1tol1e Home.
'They have both men with them, he
told .Major Umglv rne. "They are cap
tives 111 the 1, shaped adobe hou'-e almost
,n the centre of the puibla. 1 have (-ccri
them, ml Jefe. I have come from then
just two day s ago "
"Hoots and saddle", was wnispereo
ilgurea .stretched out 011 the hot ground
uimn to life In half an hour the com-
Miami was on the move In the directum
of 111 Pino.
Fearing that the horses by reason of
their long march during the day wvuld 1
N unable to make the extra march at !
night without rest. Major l.inshorno d.- 1
...leil ti make ,111 auto d.ish for the
..,. ...iiir. .iIm iiwl!,. MwOor t M I II ill T t
.eivue. iniis'sling of one motor truck
and three aub'S
Picked men from the two troops of the
Cishtn Cavalry weie placed 0.1 these
i.ir. In tie darkness and the bustle of
dip.irture I Wis rnrtun.it. enoun to
secure space on tin truck. The whole
lemmand moved out of camp In a body
and 11 mile away a hall was made, where
Major Langhorne gathered the command
alxmt him and shiUi direct to the men.
"We b'ileve that we have correct In-
formation as to where Deetner and
'Payne are right this minute," said tl '
Mnjnr. "and we are making this itTnrl
1.. rescue them from tin bandits, livery
minute count. May be by this time they
are aware of our ptesence thus close oil
the trail and will lie on tho move It
might be th.it thev might exe. ute the
prison rs btfou going
.el.-ci Twenty .Men.
1 Kverythlns depends upon speed I
Mow of .ou w,ln.,i to so with tho
autos In which I will proceed, but the
troop commander have selected the
twenty men who will make this dash
against a force which, we understand,
number about sixty It is going to be
no n.ip. It Is you men back 011 th-
lerses, m... i ..t.w..
"''w,.. be able ,0 make a short cut
to the west. We with the machines will
have to follow the road. If you can
make the ranch by daybreak and If
everything goes right I believe we will
b" able to capture them and save Deem, r
and Payne"'
1 ,f .,. u- I.,,.. ,1... .in.i,.
e- . ,,.-.. .... .... ..
' ' " "
on 11 ui 11 ii'u in" ii.ii ..ii ui.- iihui
m took the shorter ,ut ...it through
1.....1 ,..1.1 1 ..,111
blistriing hoi from the day's sun. There
was a 1.10011,
but cloud rags dimmed It.
our prosit was
nn' wil l tu head -
lights turiud off
Six hours of pushing and lifting, pull-
ing and digging 'he truck and motors
from the s.u.d sullies, mane the sue-
,,..s of the night's plans look dimmer
and dimmer, as every minute daw n
..,., nearer over the eastern mou.i-
i..., V llelit novverod truck ill bad
. 111-'.. I povvere.1 iruciv III 11.111
,o two au.os, with civilian drlv -
nade It in.poss.ble to make the
c nidlllon,
ere. m
.ii...n.,n IilIii,
iiii.uuii.1 ......
1 We were Jolneil by the l.oi-c nt a
Tu,it not moie tli.in four miles north of
,, north end of the ranibllng lino f
mini inns vviiivii in iiiii.-u me ii.iiiiiini
Santa IV '1 I'lni. The, settlement Is,
on the desert, bill s bull over ,. ;nt' j
from which It It, Impossible to obtain ,
water by deej digging.
'
spill Inl" I"'.. Pitrlles.
I.envlns almost one-half of hi emu-1
nrirul btililcn behind a slight rNe In the I
ground, Ma lor Lnnghorne divided the
remainder Into two patties anil advanced
eti both (.Ides of the Mitlement
In shoit older the men h."d formed a
cordon nlm.it Ihe town and had lii-:un lo
drnvv the clicle tighter,
As the ilim of trooper close,! In. each
niaii with lille ready, Mnjor Langhorne
and five men galloped .town the mail
from tr.e west side of the gioup of huts,
He dismounted In front of the one story
1, shaped slrnctuie which appeared to
t e tlie most pretention, There had not
been a movement anions the towns
people, If there were any, nnd we were
beginning to express our doubt.
With an automatic in his hand, the
Major hanged haul on the wooden door
ami stepped n. ck ano rive pace s reauy
to lire at the first h;stlle move A slinf-
(litis was heard on the other sldn of tho
door.
Mr. Deeuier. are you there"" thej
Deeuier, ate you there"" the
Major asked, The shiitlllns Increased.
"Just a minute, .ir," c.iino a man's
voice In Knsllsli from behind Ihn door,
a small chain rasped lis way through
rou sinp'es nnd woodin bull iiplillcd
it Then the door opened ami an enor
mous dark vlslnned man, barefooted, we.ir
lug black trousers nnd n white shirt.
Continued1 on iVcoiid Page.
POPE DIDN' TASK WILSON
TO ACT
Pontiffs Message Only Expressed Hope That U. S.
Would Not Become Involved in War With
Germany President Sends Reply.
.vslllMiTo.s', May 1" President WIN
Mm ban replied to Pope llonedlct's icccnt
.,.,. . , , ,
I'lilteil .States would not be di.iwn Into .
the Kuropean conlllet as a result of the
submarine Issue with (leriminy.
The reply gratefully acknowledges the
Popc'H Interest on behalf of a peaceful
! Dilution of the controversy and adds that
'the Cnllod States has done and will do.
... ... ,.. .u i. I
e.erythlns consistent with the honor nnd I
I lntcsrlty of the country to maintain
p. jce.
Tl l ..f II.,. I rlilelitM I
.lie ennuumeniem m ui- -
reply luoUKht with It the first dellnite
'..(.i.. .1.- .....-..,..'
.unci. 11 iniorinaiion as 10 1110 .-ii.n u;i-i
0f n,,. pope's lecent cotninunlcatlon.
It
., m,w dellnltely Mated thafthe comrnu-
tiuallon did not convey any siiKSestluii
ii. it.i.i..ni . 1.. ih iioielliiess of
his coinltm' forwaul as mediator of the
, . . ,
llutopean war. The Pontiff conllncd his
nussace to an appeal to the President to
WfJlk for ,.ae..fUl aolutlot. of the sub-.
Vatican was transmitted In the form of
n letter acknowledging Mgr. Uonz tno-
communication.
lli..- ...r .! I. ill. annlo.l he linprnf fi r !
Larislns
One circumstantial lepoit cabled from j
abroad was that the pope had communl-.
cated with the various neutral ov-(
eriimcntH suggesting that they make 11 ;
concert.sl attempt to inmate peace par-
levs ,.,. ihe belllu-erents and there-1
,y bring the European war nearer to !
its close. Secretary Lansing suld he
had no knowledge of any such proim-al
uml that the I'nlted States, the leading
neutral country, hail not been up proacneii ,
on the subject.
The Pope's solicitude, over the rela-
.us between Hermans' and tho Lulled
Hons
States
Is understood to have been
prompted partly by his fear that the
position of the I'nlted States as a pros.
liecuve jueoiaior mmiil lie umii-rinio. ...
. , ; ' ,
Pontiff looks to tho I'nlted Slates to
play an lmtortant role In the peace
P"tirpalers when the time Is ripe
POPE'S PEACE VIEWS.
sold 10 Perl That Mentrnl .Medl
,. w H ., ii.
"r '
Hfi-iffi In Tin: St -
tr,if vtn t.ntii.An M 'i .? Tlmr I.
gncul reason to believe that pope Hem-
diet is convinced that neutral me-iiatlon
is unlikely to lend to peace even if It
FOUR DISTRICTS IN
NEW BORDER PATROL
Ccn. Funston Divide, t'p .Mili
tia and Iteirulars to Cover
Kntire Territory.
SO. MK STAKT FOH I'OST.S
San Antosio. Tex, May 1T-Ilrlg-Clen.
John A. Illilen, commanding the
Texas troops, made up of at least two
1 regiments, will be sent to the llrowns-
,9 district Thev will move within .1
, few da,. G n. K ;
nou.uement to-dro .1 tho 1: '1''
pivo out his plan In brief for dlstriettni,
the Texas bonier.
Four nimry dls tr cts I ive bee ,
. formed for Texas, f.en. .lames 1 arker,
! with pr-nt ""rt'" , J' )
1 innin will be in clcirge of tin' iirowns-
- pvtend from the
f w,t' w,,li.ril to Arroyo del
,
; Tisre, near the tow,, of llo.ila. up the
1 river from lllo Oratnle , it ,v lien.
nuien wm V.,V, ,V ,, ., .11 V,' 1 .-,11
1 "1 lnn " ,"B , '.: '
1 1" nei in ... o " ,,
Oeu. William A Mnnn will command
the Ltredc. dlsirle I .,' rt,M"
" " '.,''. . ,.,,,,, iii c(.
''''.,;" ,. ,V.. i. .kv aisirlcL vvhlch w 111
nmnd th 1-( h I .vss ;'m,w
n' 'h lm t err too
of the Laredo section up the Itlo .Mm o
to lllocker ranch.
The district ahovo
.,.,11,. , 1.-1 li.sji U In llin lltn
1 - h Jirac lei o VA I .im I , he U o
Vlmon L Par.iicr.er of the Nine-
,, .,.,.-..
" V. ,t the two Tevis infantry
' ' "V . '.J.'' . ? ' . . .. .? "
1 T-Vn" "VtKtriiT III b left to the division
Hulen
o'ther regiment, the batten
r ,, ,,tr..0
' ' of vajry, .n i, ,.t has not
,evn decided. It Is jsisslble they will
go to l!.il. Mann's district on the east
M) ,lH , !, ;ls ,.(Hn touch as
possible with brls.tde hcadiiuarter.s.
The Colonels ci.miuandltis icslments
In the llrow nsvilln country have nail ills
tilcts to themselves. Hut these will be
con, entiittci! Ill the large unit and thn
i ommanilaiits will bo subject directly to
the unlets of den. Parker. These com-
i in.inilituts nr. i oi i.ini-vson m w,e iiuin
i Cavaliv. Col. Hullard of tho Twenty
sixth Infantry and Col. liumiiier of tho
, Twenty-eighth inlnntry
l.leiit.-Col, Parinerter of the Del liln
dlstilct will have lominand of several
Coast Artllleiy companies, probably
Seven nnd Six companies of the Nine
teenth Infantry
Tinp movement to stations out of thn
mohillatlmi camp was started to-day.
Also other troop nrilved. Threi. com-
panle of Coast Artillery, the Seventy
. , Seventy-fourth nnd HMh, left
J . , , , lal1, I)(0MH , various
,,rl,K,.H alld town In Ihe Del lllo dlsti lct.
1 mm,,, iritlrteeiitli li,f;i.itrv' letieheil the
emm N'ew York lo.ilav ninl will ',o
held hero for emergency purposes.
Pope Itecnlls A.inclo to llrnssels.
Hieaut lAtlile ltiolch to Tub Si".
Itnvir:, May 17.- -Pope Iteneillct has
recalled Mgr. Tacii, Papal Nuncio to
H.ussels. It Is probable that Msr, Taccl
will bo succeded by Msr. Locatilll, for
mer Papal Nuncio at Mutnoa Ayron.
AS MEDIATOR,
nhould he solicited by Austria and d-
jnany. since the Allies, It I said, are
bound to refuse to consider peace condl-
t0tll( offered by the Central Powers, Th
j;nlcnt0 Powers feel, P. In believed here,
that tho mere fact of an Initiation of
pourparlers wouM be misinterpreted as
it slon of weakness, and exhaustion.
I'or thrmi reason, when the Pope np
pi.il.il to the bi'lltaercnts he .lid so
without tho Intermediation or neutrals.
The Pontiff Is said to be convinced now
Inoru than ever that any attempt at
n(,(llalon wouM fc( ,, hvc0
u.(Uf to assume any Initiative. He
K however, strlxlnii to facllltato a
UIM'Ct eXCII.ItlKe Of llIe.lH,
rt....... ,.,.,.,.1.1 n, lllmile
. : , tti,e articles are often Insiilre.l.
... .1... s-...i...il
iwriiuiK 111 me iiinuuu
newspaper
.Ifoinoifo of Turin, points out that It Is
' " 1 LIZ ' tV ...Ver
! explains, abdicated and lost power
'over Kr.mce. whereas the Cerman
dynasty lasts. The (brmans will con-
o' e to ufcm, nu ne?ene, t-.-u ,.--
,.nllj. .. ..in nreu.ire for rcvense
Hence, the writer arwues, It in useless to
I'roloi.B the war Indellnltely, ,,..rtlcularly
although It Is alllrmed by the writer that
ucti a ining 1 imp. sioie, m.i. . 1 1.
milted that If the Kaiser should abdi
cate the war would end.
THINKS GREY FOR PEACE.
ll.eiiiii.il Puller ! Ills Words In
dicate lleslre for Mcillntlon.
fiptctat CaUt lirswtcfi In Tun Cin
AMHTnittMxi, via London. May IT.
,.., ,,, .,,-,... c(1....,ist organ
1 " "mrl'H hov.laitsi ori.an
welcomes a statement by Sir Kdward
Oiey, as published In Iho Chlcaso Dally
v, us, baying It might be Interpreted as
,,n attempt at mediation. The piper
i,,iis.
".v serious and objective treairnent of 1
Sl, Kdward (irey's statement could only
, ,)n,.j.. tl, arousing a desire for peace
..,., ..i .,iu i i..,. n. ,,.,, ,.,. ,,.,
,r ;. "comr'u. YVV ar f the opinion
that after nearly twenty-two months of
,.,..nKlnL- uliraritle critics, neiire
could, he discussed seriously and
1 . ,.
Sir Kdward's statement angered
I the Austrian newspapers, which de
I nniinc It as containing "hypocritical
lies," declaring that llrltlsh Intrigues
alone caused the war.
"Such cool lypr," says one paper,
"can bo explain, ! only upon the
j ground of moral Insanity.'"
Another says that it reflects CSreat
I Britain's helplessness ami that Kugland
i iiiimt emi 1(1111.. 111., u.ip tine Mtul iu 101
Still another Journal ilecl.ues, "The reply
' to Sir Kdward liiey's bombast will be
given upon the b.ittl. II. Id
CAPERTON ASKS AID
IN SANTO DOMINGO
Admiral'-. ."HI0 Marine, in pil
... ,
fllld .More .Meil Arc
Itnsbed to Him.
NINK WA I. SHIPS OlfliKI.KI
Washisiito.s', May 17 --The situation
In finto Domingo Is giving so much
concern to the Navy Department that
nine American warships have been de
patfhed to waters- of Dominican port
p the fine of marines In Santo D,
mirigo city . to be speedily strengthened.
Advices have been leceivod siion lug that
the present force of marines might be
hopclesMy outnumbered and seriously en
dangeired unless enforcements are sent
without loss of lime.
Kear Admiral Caperton to-day asked
that the 500 American marines In Santo
Domingo city b leenforced a once.
Th .N.ivv Depirtmeiit autl.or.ed tho
despatch of adil.tion.il marines (rum
Hajti The Panther, Ilasshtp and tender
to thn First and Seojiul destroyer divi
sions and l:i command of Commander
Harris L.uilng, unived at Santo Do
mingo city to-day.
Though no detailed reort of the
threatened Dominican uprising has been
received tho chief cause of alarm N that
the llttln American force of marines
might be outnumbered 10 to l In cn.sn
of serious disturbance. The only aid
at h.iiud would bo from the destroyers
now tu Dominican w ater, nnd this would
nut materially assist any American party
Inshore.
Tho Navy Department has leen
ipiletly ile-patiilng vessels ta Domini
can waters to meet any threatened
emergency and It Is probable, that more
ships will t-o. Additional marines may
also be sent from the I'nlted Slates,
Ileal Admiral Capeitou on his
flagship, the Dolphin, is now at winto
'Domingo illy. Ueslilc the Panther Ihe
tiansport li.ilrle, In command if Com
maiiiler WalLi ('roMcy, Is also there
ihe eleslioyer Flnsser, in command of
Lieut it.ilph Walling, I nt Macoils to
gether with thn Sterett, commanded by
J.ieut, lieoign Simpson. The Lamson,
In command of Lieut Henry Keller, and
the Held. In ciniiiiuind of Lieut. Charles
Slaylon, are at Puerto Plata, Thn
Walke, comiuandi'd by Lieut Itnbeit
Theobald, and 'he Terry, coi.im.tnileii by
Lieut William Nicholu, lire at Saiuiiez.
FRANCE WON'T CUT PENSIONS.
W'noiided ble In Work. Will s,,f.
fer No lleiliiellnii.
,s;iilnl Cable He'iHttch la Tilt S
Pxiits, May 17.-11 I'' culliially an
nounced that the' dnveriinient Iiiih no In
tention of diminishing or suppressing
the pensions awarded to those mutilated
ill the war, even If they tire alio to earn
their own living through a new educa
tion The announcement icniovrs a doubt
which hid been Interfering lth the
woili of i education of tho maimed.
LAWYERS' WIRE
TAPPED DURING
MUNITION DEAL
John S. Seymour Amazed to
Learn of Listening In;
Denies Any Crime.
NOT DOXE EXCEPT
HV POJJCE OKDEtt
J. L. Swa.vo Says Inquiry
Should JIavc 5een 3radc
in Farrell Case.
KINGS G1IAXD Jl'JiV
KXA3IJXES WOODS
Major Says He'll lie (Hail to
Tell Facts to Thomp
son Committee.
Joint S. Seymour of the law firm ot
Sernour & Seymour, with ollices la the
Hiiultable Ilulldlng, learned to his as
tonishment yesterday at tho Thunpson
I'Klsl.itlvu comnillte.i hearing that th
telepborii, wire leading Into his olllce had
Ixeri tapped by order of the Police Com
missioner five or six weeks ago during
iiesotlatloiie that Involved large financial
interests and a war munitions contract
for tho Allies. The news was a conipleto
revelation to Mr. Seymour, but It wa
by no means the only surprise that
emerged from this Pandora's box wlr
tupping -which the committee iieclded to
i open
ju
Just befoie Mr. Sevmours astonish
ment John L. Swaje, g.nei.i: ounsel to
the New Vork Telephone Company, who
described for the eommittie's trilightcn
meiit ;he police practice of tapping tele
phone wires, assured Frank Moss, tho
committee' counsel, that it was an In
variable rule to tup telephone wires only
wbero crime was suspected as havlns
been committed or Intended. Mr. Sey
mour, ..ml later his brother, Frederick
Seymour, declared ciuplt.itlc.illy that
there was nothing in their olllce In which
any clime was lnvolvi d direct. or Indi
rectly. They s.ud there could have been
none excipt a online n ...1 or bualucsd
motive that would ptmnpt any spying
upon their affairs.
Inl teil Morgan lllllees.
'Was the Morgan firm Interested?"
asked .Mr. Moss while John S. Seymour
was on the witness stand.
' My brother and our clients,'' an-
sweted Mr. Seymour, "went down several
tunes to the Moigan olllce. It wa an
'executed contract when the conferences
In our nfllce began. The Morgan firm,
I, hoUrsVi ,,., ,t m,anc:al interest III
patties who were not our clients Lut who
were dealing with our clients,"
I Frederick Seymour when he took th
! wlu,eM hUmI " ,ti 1,13 ttjy 10 I)lstrlct
I Attorney Swann's cilice to lodge a com-
p.ulnt on Ihe Information that his brother
had obtained at tie mornlns session of
the is.mn.lt.ee. ile did not lll.lko tho
complaint, but. Mr Sivann n.ilJ, h
agreed to appear beloio the drand Jury,
waiving any Immunity that might b
ccinsldired in the cafe. Ho also said his
cjimplalnt depended nil th' development
of certain lines of Investigation being
made In his firm - behalf. John S. Sey
mour hud snld In tin. committee room
that he would spend the rest of his Uf
trying t find out who directed uusplclon
at his olllcti.
The prlnclpil points In th other testi
mony before th ci.mmittie were thess.
John L Sw'.iyze, the telephone, couti
eel, said his company feels that tho law
Imposes upon II .. duly to aid public
officials ln apprehending arid detecting
crime by telephone, but tlie company
also would gladly coi.por.uo with thfl
committee) in framing a law which will
relievo It of thai "serious disturbance"
-ml stop nil wire esp o.i.ige
The I'nrrell t use.
The company's counsel admitted that
In the tapping of the wire of the Uev,
William Farrell In conm i itnti with tin.
reient charltb's Investigation an lininiry
should linvti been mule before the "tap
was put on" llo il-.l nut know it wait
Father FarreU's v. Ire, be s.ud, or he
would have made imiuli) A a gen
eral practice hitherto, howevei the com
pany li.i not I mtti it .-it Into the grounds
for the police suspicion w In n they re
quested a wire to be t.ippel except 111
the case of a prominent ...r o. a s!
nllli'.int location Put Mr Swajz.i an
nounced that henceforth In w Ii 11, ike .
personal luvcstlgati"ii nf ev. . . police
leiiuest fur .1 tup
The Thompson lommittie. we. t 'nto
executive session with Mr Svv ne at
the close of 'ho examination l.f, night
to consider the other nanus on ue 111
of 3."0 telcpliui.e wire t.ipp '.gs in th
last year and 11 half Sei.at. i luumpson
would not aimouiice ids fuairc oiirse
III thn wile tapping Impl.ry lie was
Interested to hear tha' M..Mir M.tchil
hud said yesterday morning that ho was
willing to te'.l all Ihe fail, but the. Sen
ator would like a bitter idea of what
those facts .ue bi foro I. s mmltle
plunges into them
The Seymour tlevelopuie
w ,1
thn
most martllng of the day I
lecalled that tin 00 or fmiv v.
thn two lawyer Were told b i
that a detci taplione had I" 1
their office, but no ti.n 1 ' '
veiled after several l,"'i ' '
and the Seymours rcfusi I
nnv one liad tried ' ' f
oi,... .iilalrs. The mam "
w 11 b.t
ci ago
t vc
.d in
h.iMon
that
ttvlr
.. "e I th
. ' i,w s to
II, 1,1 t on 111
' ! Inter
1 snes to
t. 'iiiush
vtn In
n abitj
e latter,
eli-pllllllq
H Mr Misjj
District Atloim y's efT , e I
the clrciiti. stances ot ihe t
the Seymour "Ifnc and
est concerned ' ' ' "' "
make a COlllt"' , ' ' - 1,1 1
bath Scmihui. ' " ' ' .
vestlsatlnt. 0' '1 '" '
Ilulldlng age" '
"Were you awire it
wlro lml been tapped "
ill
I!
ls
