Bringing Up Father
A cccr Loses lis Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
Frank Carpenter
Look for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Timcs-Dispalch
66th YEAR
VOLUME 66
MMIIIISH 1?S
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
wi: i'i iiLiit
.1
FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
WASHINGTON WINS
WON, IN 1917,
OF CONFEDERATES
( hosen Over Tulsa, Okla.,
and Memphis, Tenn.,
by Close Vote.
. desire to be reviewed
BY PRESIDENT OF U. S.
General George P. Harrison, of
Alabama, Elected Com
mander-in-Chief.
SrcCREDS BENNETT H. VOING
Gi?nerul J. Thompson Brown Named
Commander Department Army
of Virginia.
"HtATIN'OHAM. ALA.. Mar 17 ?W ish
?Muon won the honor of ontc-rtalnfr>g
tli* I nltod Confederate Veterans In
; 1:1:7 h>* ? close vote at the closing
hsession hero to-nl^ht.
'?metal George P. Harrison, of Ala
bama, wn? eleetcd commamter-ln-chtef
?'? succeed General Dennett II. Young.
?'f Kentucky.
The fieslre Of the old Confederate
soldiers to parade down Pennsylvania
Avenue and be reviewed toy the Presi
dent of. the l.'r.itcd States le<j th?*m to
? hoos?- Washington for the 1017 reunion
' 'v at the closing business session of
th'-ir reunion litre to-day. Tulsa.
?'Kl-t. and Memphis, Tcnn., received the
not highest votes in t|1<? order named.
General Georg.. p Harrison. corn
iit.inder of the Alabama division of the
Vnited Confederate Veterans. was
elected commander-in-chief of the Vet
' ' in.?. FucceedlnK General llennett
Young, of Louisville. Ky.. who refused
to permit hit name to be presented
as a candidate for re-election. Other
officers named were
Commander Department of the Army
of Northern Virginia. General John
Thompson Brown, of Virginia.
Commander Department or the Army
of Tennessee, General John P. Hick
mar. of Tennessee
1 mr.mander Trans-Mississippi De
partment. General K M Van Zantz. of
T->.as.
hi:im?ht on 1 o.NsoMn.vriov
AT THE \KST UKLMOV
The reports of the resolutions com
tnitt.'.v with the exception of ot.o fa
v iritiK a reduction In the salary of the
adjutant-general from SI,500 to J1.500
annually and another favoring the
consolidation of the Veterans' and Sons
of Veterans" organizations, were re
ferred to the commanding general and
the heads of the three doj,artmontfi.
They adopted the consolidation resolu
tl .n. and a commit tic con:posed of the
g- neraI officers and one representative
from ?-ach division was appointed to
co-operate with n similar oommlrtec
from the .Son to ??eport at the next
reunion.
The ?-fTo:t to reduce th<> adjutant
general's salary failed when it was
l-arned that the constitution leaves
that matter in the hands of the execu
tive council and commander-in-chief
According to the report on the Jeffer
son Davis Home Association, presented
hy John S Leathern, of Kentucky, it
.showed there were no debits against
tl " organizations, and that thev had a
balance ;n the hank of more, than
\11 other meetings gave uh.v at noon
to-day for the annua! memorial cxer
ci.-es under the Joint auspices o' the
Veterans and the Confederated Southern
Memorial Association, known a? the
"Memorial Women."
rUIADK OK WDMKN
IHSTPIIXKU t VI II. TO-li.tV
rt wa? nnnounccd n; headquarters to
rt^ that the parade of the official
women, sponsors and maids of the va
rious departments, set for this after
noon. had been postponed until to
morrow, when it will he held In coti
ri.'i-Uon with the grand parade of the
veterans.
The morning session of the Veterans
was devoted to miscellaneous business.
The Sons of Veterans, as a body, made
a:> official call upon the old soldiers,
after which they returned to their own
hall for the election of officers. Com
modore A. O. Wright, of Jacksonville,
Fla , commanding officer of the rem
nants of the naval forces of the Con
federacy. together with Captain Dab
noy Scales, of Memphis, another veteran
of the navy, also were introduced. An
ovation wan given to General T. T.
Munford. of Virginia, who was referred
to by General Bennett H. Young as one
of the most noted leaders of the Con
federate cavalry forces
An address on "The Memorial
Women" by Rev. Albert Sidney John
son and the reading of tho roll of
honor of the dead by Gonoral William
E. Mickle, for the Veterans, and Miss
D. M. L. Hodgson, for the memorial
association, featured the memorial ser
vice. Mrs. W. J. Behan, president
general of the Confederated Southern
Memorial Association, made a short talk
on the work of tho organization.
In tho election of officers for the
Sons of Veterans, Virginia presented
two candidates for the office of com
mander, Erneat G. Baldwin, of Roa
noke. and Garland P. Peed, of Norfolk.
After a spirited fight, Mr. Baldwin
was elected on a roll call of the camps.
The theater in which the reunion
gatherings are he*'* was unable to ac
commodate the tl? /a, and thousands
of visitors, inc.lui ( many of the old
soldiers themsel , sp-snt tho day
sightseeing. Ban Parading the streets
helped to enliven ^hc occasion.
YOUNG GIVEV ' ITI.K OF
HOJVOnAHV PHICSIDENT
The election of General Harrison as
commanding general followod a touch
ing scene when Mrs. Virginia Frazler
Boylo, of Tennessee, poet laureate for
the veterans, presented a handsome silk
rfQeftttaueA an, fieoona PAgeJt
New Head of U. C. V.
OENERAI, OEOROE p. HARRISON.
EXPEDITION OF SIBLEY
Langhorne Endeavoring to Overtake
Mexican Bandits Who Eluded
Him at Ml Pino.
AMERICANS RESCUE DEEMER
Had Been Left by Retreating Oat
laws, Whose Orders for His Death j
Were Not Obeyed by Villagers.
Conditions Quiet in Chihunhua.
j SAX ANTON JO, TEX., May 17.?An
j early withdrawal of the punitive es.pe-i
| dltion Iw] by Colonel Sibley, south of
! BoqulIIar. was Indicated at department
I headquar .er? to-day. The rescue of
; Jesse Dernier. the storekeeper. and
.Monroe Payne, the negro cook, who
i were carried across th?' border br b&n- !
'dlt.-? when rhey raided Glenn Springs!
| and Boqui Has- twelve days ago was
i reported to-day l>v Colonel Sibley, who
received hi.* information froni Major
Ororve T l.anglioine. Major L?ang-1
hornf reported that h<? was er.deavor
< inj? to overtake th?- bandits, who had
j eluded hlin at Hi Ptno. from where he
| eent the report.
Officers here regarded it as probable j
that at: ?mcounlT with the baryilts
I would bring the expedition to an end. i
'and i' is thought probable that the
'bandit? will br overtaken soon,
j Tt was expected that the four troops
, of cavalry and the machine-gun rom-;
pany op'i.itinR tinder Sibley was In-!
adequate for extended operations.
Deeincr arid Payne, had been left at El
j Pino by the tetrcating bandits with
j Instruct tons t? the residents that they
j killed if .in attempt at rescue was
t made. The villagers refused to ob*y
| Jnstru lions, professing; their f.-lendll
| ncjs th?: Americans when they en
! tered the town yesterday morning,
j Two i?giments of Texas militia were
assigned to the Brownsville district.
They will be the first of the troops
to go t - border stations. In Phis dis
trict it was announced, there will be
more timn T./'OO men within five days.
Three companies of Coast Artillery,
the Seventy-seventh, Seventy-fourth
and the One Hundred and Fortv-fltth.
left here to-day for the Del Itio dls
?rict.
IlKPOHTS A AQ.H' TIIOOPS
AS IIKADKD FOR SII1LKY
SAN ANTONIO. TEX., May 37.?S. F.
Seifer, an American, who arrived at
Eagle Pass to-day from Torreon, was
credited in a special dispatch to the
San Antonio L.ight as saying' that 800
Yaqui troops started north three days
age with the rtvowed intention of
"wiping: out Colonel Frederick Sibley's
command." He also was quoted as
saying the Carranza and Villa troops in
the vicinity of Torreon were uniting to
"go after the grlngoes."
General Funston ?ajd he assumed
that the movement of the 800 troops
is nothing more than a part of Gen
eral Obregon's plan to police the dis
trict south of Boquillas.
Announcement of four patrol districts
into which the border will be divided
was made to-day by General Funston.
The Brownsville district will be
commanded by Brigadier-General James
Parker. If will extend from Browns
ville to a point near Roma, about 100
miles weal. The Laredo district, ex
tending from Iloma to Blocker's ranch,
between I,aredo and Eagle Pass, will
be commanded by Brigadier-General
William A. Mann. The Eagle Pass
district, extending from Blocker's
ranch to a point near Del Rio, will be
commanded by Brigadior-Genernl Henry
? Green. The fourth district, with
udquarters at Del Rio. will be estnh
hed to guard the towns and bridges
jng the Southern Pacific. Lieutenant
lonel A. L. Parmeter will command.
T.ie troops In that district will be six
companies of tho Nineteenth Infantry
and six companies of the Coast Artil
Re-Elected President of Southern
Convention at Opening Ses
sion at Asheville.
MANY REPORTS PRESENTED
*
Foreign Mission Board Opposes
Plan to Unite With Other
Denominations in Work.
ASHEVILLE. N. C.. May IT.?Hev.
Iiantins Burrows. D. D., of Am?*ric\is,
Oa., was re-elected president of the
Southern Baptist Convention at the
opening of the sixty-first annual ses
sion of that body here late to-day. The
opening session was taken uj> with
?:Icrtion of officers and presentation of
reports of the various boards con
trolled by the convention.* one being
the foreign mission bofird. which
recommended that the Southern Bap
tist Convention decline to enter into
a union with oth?>r denominations in
foreign mission work The convention
later will vote on adoption of this re
port and the others presented.
The possibility that the Southern
Convention will hold a meeting at the
eami' time and place with the Northern
Baptist Convention next year was
brought out by efforts of members of
tlie Southern Baptist churches in Kan
sau City to make that place the next
convention city. It was said efforts
are being made to get the Northern
Baptists, now in session at Minne
apolis. Minn., to meet next year in the
Missouri city. New Orleans, Hot
Springs and several other Southern
cities also are soekinK to entertain
the Southern Baptists in 1917.
DELEGATES AT OPENING
SESSION" NUMBER 1.375
Election of Dr. Burrows as presi
dent for his third consecutive term
brought out that 1.376 delegates were
present at the opening session. Dr.
Burrows got 724 votes for president,
against G55 cast for M. H. Wolfe, of
Dallas, Tex, a lay member of the con
vention. Othe* o'ticers elected were:
Vice-presidents?B. C. Hennig, of
Elizabeth City, N. C.; J. B. Mell, of
Athens. Ga.; J. B. Lawrence, of Co
lumbus. Miss., and J. C. Stalcup, of
Oklahoma City. Okla. Mr. Henning
was the only vice-president re-elected.
Secretaries?O. F. Gregory, of Balti
more. nnd II. C. Moore, of Raleigh,
N. C. Eoth were re-elections.
Treasurer?George W. Norton, of
Louisville. Ky.
Auditor?W. P. Harvey, of Harrods
burg. Ky.
The report of the Sunday school
board showed total receipts of *462,
72S. with a balance on hand of more
than 130.OOQ.
The foreign mission board, in Its re
port, summarized its reasons for op
posing unton with other denominations
in foreign mission work as follows:
Arbitrary territorial divisions for
missionary operations proposed by fed
eration are opposed; proposed agree
ment for an interchange of church
letters are held to be contrary to
recognized custom among Baptist
churches of South. The board con
siders it of primary importance that it
control, or control Jointly with other
Baptist bodies, the religious instruc
tions given to boys and girls intrusted
to it.-j care: a policy abroad consistent
with denominational policy at home Is
strongly favored.
The foreign mission bo^rd points out
that this question, which has caused
some sharp discussions in the conven
tion for several sessions, is closely al
lied to the. church union question
I "Southern Baptists are on rccord by
repeated actions of the convention in
recognition of that spiritual union
which exists among all believers of
Christ." says the report, "and in favor
of their organic union as soon as it
can bo perfected on New Testament
t lines. We reatflrin these sentiments.
I We would have all our people recog
nize the bonds of brotherhood which
unite Christians of every name, culti
vate a large spirit of fraternity and
I strive together with others to secure
the closest possible impact of our
modern Christianity upon the social
order for the establishment of righte
ousness in the earth.
| "We would, however, admonish our
people at home and abroa^ to remain
true to New Testament principles of
faith and church polity, and. by so
I doing, seek to preserve the unity of
the denomination, enlist all Of our
forces for the holy causc of/mi:isions
and thus insure the integrity and suc
ccss of this work."
rbchkts its dissent
IS MADE NECE8S AnV
TUe board expresses regret that its
dissent is made necessary by a gen
eral program of fnion and co-operation
which conflicts at the points mention
ed with policies of the denomination.
This program, the report says, "throat
ens to hinder, rather than help, Chris
tian unity."
Explaining its objections, the board
says it cannot conscnt to have any
limitations placed on it in locating its
forces or to bfe put in a position which
would forbid Its loyalty to "any com
pany of Christian converts who may
now* or hereafter profess a like pre
cious faith with us." With regard to
the interchange, of letters, the board
declares Baptist churches have a well
known standard of qualification for
church membership, and it shall seek
to foster this standard in every land
whero it sends its missionaries. Tho
board says further that it will not
engage in any form of co-operation,
hospital, publication or educational,
which is not fully reported to tho con
vention and which does not meet the
approvaj of the convention.
The bSard reports the most success
ful year in the history of tho church's
foreign missions. Converts baptized
number 6,471 and seventy-seven new
churches were organized. Missionaries
number 315,138 men and 182 women. A
foreign membership of 42,130 is or
ganized into 450 churches, ninely-flvt,
of which arc self-sustaining. Native
Christians contributed $129,501 to sus
tain the work last year. Tho mission
aries have 694 native helpers.
Sunday schools flourish, the 403
.0Co&Unu*d oa Second
Heroes of Battle of St. Eloi Make Merry
.->T? av
t)WOE,Cuijp05 gT ,
Df?0&RU4&0 V.'
?Jubilant members of the "Fighting Fifth" making merry over their captured war trophies. They are trying
on helmets, caps, pas masks and other tropies taken from the (Germans. These men arc of the Northumberland
! Fusiliers, and were I be heroes of the IJattle of St. Kloi, a tierce engagement which took place on a sector of the
! Ciorman front, at it point south of Ypres. At the time the men fought in mud up to their arm-pits, and the vlc
! tory of the British wun due to the stubborn fighting and endurance, and the example set by the gallant ''Fighting
; Fifth."
PLATFIRM TO BE BASED !
ON LEGISLATIVE REGOBD;
ProRiyss by Congress Awaited With J
Profound Interest by Adminis
tration Leaders.
WANT PENDING HILLS ENACTED ]
President Expresses Hope That Ad- j
journmeut Will Be Taken Early in 1
Summer, With Most of Proprnm j
Completed Before Conventions.
WASHINGTON. May J 7.?President
Wilson, talking with congressional
callers to-day, indicated hip gratifica
tion a; the progress being made on
legislation supported by tho administra
tion, and expressed 'nope that Congress
would he able to adjourn early in the |
summer. Jt is the hope of the Presi-j
dent to see most of tiie program com-|
pleted before the political conventions'
in June.
Representative Kagle. of Texas, told J
the President he thought Congress!
tvould adjourn by the middle of July.i
and some of th<* President's advisers
believe it will lie possible, to complete
the legislative piogram before that
time. Senator Kern, majority leader
of the Senate, however, has said ad
journment may not come before August
lc.p and Speaker Clark thinks it hardly]
will lie practicable to pet away then. |
DRAFTING OK PLATFORM
\Mtr..\nv i> T*Hor;nKSs
The Democratic platform will be
ba?ed in large part on the record of
legislation enacted. The drafting of
the platform already hn? been begun,
land progress by Congress Is awaited i
with profound interest by administra
tion leader?. The measures which the
President particularly wants passed be
fore tlu" conventions are the shipping
bill, the rural credits bill. the. Philip
pine and lite Porto Kican bills, the
tariff commission bill and a corrupt
practices act.
Postmaster - General Rurlcson dis
cussed the political situation with tho
President to-day, and afterwards said
he thought former Governor Glynn, of
New York, undoubtedly would.be tem
porary chairman of t tie Democratic
convention. !1>; also indicated that he
believed .Speaker Champ Clark would
be permanent chairman. although
friends of the Speaker nay he does
| not expect to attend the convention.
The President has not yet decided
j definitely where he will be during the
| convention, but he may go to his sum
; m?r home. "Shadow Lane." in New
| Jersey, jf the foreign situation does not
i necessitate his presence in Washing
I ton.
AMERICAN LOSES LIFE
j l.tigl Martini .Mnncint Drimntd IVlien
Dutch Sfenuinlilp Th IlloMn
Up (it North Sea. I
LONDON, May l".?The American |
embassy was informed to-dny that
r.ugi Martinti Manclnl, an American,
was drowned when the Dutch steam
ship Flntavler V. was blown up in the
North Sea. Two American citisens on
board were saved.
A dispatch to Lloyd's from Great
Yarmouth says that when tho llatavlfr
V. was lilown up. four of the crew
were lost, the remainder landed at
Grept Yarmouth. The Flntavler was
on her way from London to Rotter
dam.
A report has been made to the Ameri
can embassy expressing the opinion
that the Ratavia V. sank as a result
of striking a mine. Tho embassy will
forward this report to tho State De
partment at Washington. Through
consular officers, the. embassy is ob
taining affidavits from the ship's offi
ce rs.
OR. R. C. BRYAN NOMINATED
Chosen by President to He Flrxt I.leu
tenant In Medical Reserve Corps
of Arm j.
?WASHINGTON", May 17.?Dr. Robert
Coalter Bryan, of Richmond, to-day was
nominated by President Wilson to bo
first lioutenant In the Medical Reserve
Corpa of thaarmy. y
CONFERENCE REPORT !
ONflRMY BILL flCCEPT[0;
Favorable Action in Senate Comes
After All-Day Debate, With
out Roll Call.
HOUSR EXPECTED TO FOLLOW
Provides for War Strength of Ap
proximately 2(10,000 Ortlcers ami
Men and for Federalized National
Ciuard.
WASHINGTON. May IT?The Senate,
after an all-day debate, accepted the
i confcienc<s report on the army rcorgan
! izatlon hill without a roll call. The
House 18 expected to approve the re
port within a day or two and send the
first of the hip national defonse meas
ures to the President. I
The bill provides for a regular army 1
of 211,000 officers and men .it peace i
strength and approximately 200,000 at j
war strength and for a federalized Na- j
tlonal Guard of 457.000 officers and men I
at maximum strength.
Discussion of the conference, report
embraced a denunciation of Groat
j Britain for execution of the Irish revo
lutionists, attacks upon the administra
tion's Mexican policy, renewed assaults
| upon lh<; National Guard as a political
I force and vigorous criticism of the pro
[ vision for a government nltrnte-manu
i factoring plant.
'? Senator Fall asserted that General
| Pershing, with the 14,050 troops at his
I co mm ami, could march on to Mexico
I City, taking .-very town with little
trouble if he were unhampered by
I orders from Washington, and that SO
' per cent of the Mexican people would
welcome such action. He also declared
representatives of General Carranza
were negotiating with foreign govern
I ment.s jiK.itnSt the United States, and
I that this government would be forced
to fight foreign forces on Mexican soil
if it <li<) not soon do its full duty to
the people of Mexico and the United
State?.
noitAii itK\r:\vs attack
ON .NATION A I, GlJAIll)
Senator Borah, renewing his attack
on the National Guard as a political
force, declared that it would prove to
be more detrimental to the. United
States than an Invading army. He
characterized Great Britain's execution
of the Irish as the greatest blow to
free institutions since, the European war
began.
Senator Hodge criticized thn Hon no
for not accepting a larger army increase
proposed in the Senatn bill. Senator
Stone. of the Foreign Relations
Committee, said bo was so anxious to
' see the nitrate provision enacted that
i ho would almost be willing to agree to
any size army necessary, but insisted
there was no need of an increased
army. Senator Brandegee, author of
the amendment for a regular army of
j 2f?0,000 men at pence strength, declared
! the English language was inadequate
to express his disgust at the confer
ence action, and said he hoped the
"good Lord, who guards the drunkard
and the fool, will save the nation."
Secretary Baker said to-night that
as soon as President Wilson signed the
bill ho would begin consultations with
the general staff to put the measure
into effect. He began studying the
conference report to-night, taking a
copy with him on a trip to New York.
NOT GOING AS ALTERNATE
flryan Make* Statement (o Correct
Viarpprrxrntatlonii of "Corpora
tion-Controlled Paper*.**
LINCOLN. NEB., May 17.?William J.
Bryan announced to-day that he In not
going to the Democratic National Con
vention as an alternate delegate from
Nebraska. Neither is Charles W
Bryan, defeated candidate for the
Democratic gubernatorial nomination
in Nebraska, planning to run inde
pendent ly. Mr. Bryan's statement was
made, he explained, to "correct the
deliberate and malicious misrep
resentations of corporation-controlled
pa.pay a."
E
Win Some of Advanced Positions
and Captured 141 Officer*
and 0,200 Men.
BOMB A RDMJSXTS HY AHTIIXERY
i Fighting on I^ine In France and Bel- j
glum Consists Mainly of Big-Gnu
Operations?Airmen of Kntento j
? Allies Particularly Active.
j From the Tonale Pass region, in
| ffcpu-rn Trentino. to MontCalcone, a
i short distance from the head of the
i CJulf of Trieste, tHe Austrlnns are
j viporously on the offensive agninst the.
1 Italians.
j Jin Tyrol, to the south of Trent,
| heavy Infantry attacks to the cast of
J the Adlge River have forced the Ital
! lans again to abandon some of their
| advanced positions, and resulted in the
capture by the Austrlans of an aggrc
j pate of 141 officers and C.200 men. In
addition, thirteen cans and seventeen
i machine guns were captured.
I Vienna says that south of Itovercto
the Austriaus stormed Zegmitorta, hut
Rome asserts Char the five attacks
launched were put down with heavy
casualties, the bodies of numerous dead
Austrian* floating away in the swift
current of the Adlg'e River.
The repulse ?>f another Austrian
attack It; the Sugaua Valley is also re
ported by Rome. Along the remainder
of the front there were heavy artil
lery bombardments, with here, and
there infantry attacks. Bombing op
orations by aviators on both sides have
taken place against opposing positions.
ritiiitiM. ?;o\Mvrs maim.>
OF \ It'l l I.I.I-'lt V LMTRLS
On the line in France and Ueigium
| the f fihiing has consisted mainly of
iiirtilhrv duels?most severe ?o the
I northwest of Verdun. The entente
I allied airmen have been particularly
active again.. Oernrin positions and in
| combats in the air with Germnn ? yers.
!ln these hitter combats several Ger
j man aircraft were brought ' down by
' Mritish arid French aviators. In one
i of the raids American aviators, llght
! in? with the French army under the
j title of Franco-American fl> iner corps,
j took part in their first foray as an ln
| dividual unii.
i Fights of minor importance, with the
advantage in favor of the Russians.
| have taken place on the. northern end
of the Russian front.
In Asiatic Turkey, around Diabekr.
the Turks again assumed tho offensive,
against the Russians, but were re
pulsed.
The Italians are showing activity
along the I.ake Dolran and other sectors
of the Serbo-Greok frontier, having oc
cupied Devetepe and pushed their
forces eastward toward Monastlr. The
infantry of both sides along the front
continue to make preparations for pos
sible encounters.
MISS TOWER DIES OF HURTS
Itei-elveil I'Hta) Injuries In Automoliilr
Accident in Philadelphia I.uwt
Saturday,
PHHjADKIjPHIA, May 17.?Miss G?r
trude Tower, daughter of Charlemagrne
Tower, former American ainhassador
to Germany, who was Injured In an
automobile accident in Kalrmount Park
last Saturday night, died as a result
of her injuries In a hospital here to
day
Thomas IT. Dougherty, Jr., the polo
player, who was also Injured, is in a
critical condition. He suffered con
Mission of tho brain.
Miss Tower and Dougherty were re
turning home from the Philadelphia
Country Club in Dougherty's automo
bile, when, in swinging a curve, the
automobile, threw one of Us forward
wheels, causing the machine to turn
tut i 1?*.
Date Set for Itrandeia Vote.
WASHINGTON. May 17.?Tho Senate
Judiciary Committee decided to-day to
vote next Wednesday on tho nomina
tion of Louis D. Brandels for tho Su
(tpreia? Coucia ... .. >
DRASTIC STEPS
Military Placed in Control
ol Situation at
fJirard.
thousands of dollars
worth OF WHISKY SEIZED
Raids Made by Special Law
Agent of State Attorney
General.
OOCXTV OPKICIAI.S TOO ,,,x
'""E K"",v" ?- -WWe-Open" Town
espifc Stringent Pro.
'tibition hawH.
ml?.
1 lo-nl^h! ,?.,k ?f )lw <hu
r.noThan. '
"V ,, A,,W.
?*?^
"seated many thousands of
?orth of liquor held in Vini ' S
"?? Alabama prohibition u ws""r ?f
in? ,sl,!ns 8m,,h-of ^ r. vr
!,nd Reffl,^nt. National Guard of W?
o clock to-night. 3l
twontv comP?">-. numbering
?n- ?1 ?.rnr;
rj.1 I I vt'fl 'I
at?, this afternoon and began pntrol
?np ih? streets. The. weroa*^t,d
cry. Mobile, Birmingham, g! ard and
A,a-an? SS
Plvo freight cars were ordered ??.
"irht by *reelaI Awnt B ? *'
carry the consented liquor To "0me
unnamed destination to-morrow, prob
' yt0nt???*y or Union
Worn that Governor Henderson, at
J. inn Ingham. had declared that con
from th ,qU?r C?U,fl not be removed
from .he houses In which it was found
Without a court order met thc response
iron, nauffhmi that he intended moving
.1 to-morrow morning, unless preveni
omW* "" inJUnction or "tl'T court
j It A III.S To COM'l .> i: B
I ijv <.rn\it? port a weeic
I The raids which began at s o'clock
I this morning, after a .special train
carrying rwcnty-uvo deputies arrived
from Montgomery, will he resumed to
morrow, and will continue for a week
according to Mr. Baughan.
Glrard is a town of 5.000 popula
t.on, and when the crowds that filled
the streets interfered somo-what with
the raiders. the guardsmen were
j brought in to assist hi keeping order
and gun riling the confiscated liquor,
i Two other companies at Montgomery.
I on.> at Union Springs and another at
I Troy, also were ordered ready for ser
| vice, according to Bauglian.
I The raiders arrived at (Jirard at 6:40
.'"clock this morning anrl remained In
?seclusion until 8 o'clock, when they
suddenly swooped down on the sua
pectod places. Other deputies arrived
during the day. Under the Alabama
law. such raids may be made only be
tween tho hour3 of S A. M. and fi P.
M. The Mayor tills afternoon appoint
ed several policemen and ordered them
to protect the property of Glrard citi
zens. Special Agent Baughan ordered
his men to axrest any one Interfering
with them.
It is believed that a large quantity
j of whisky has thus been disposed of
I during tho past few days.
1 Three hundred barrels of whisky
were found and seized In ono place in
lower Glrard. In a farmhouse five
miles from Glrard a stock of liquor,
estimated by Baughan to be worth
$.?0,000, was seized. Two men guard
ing the liquor attempted to draw
pistols, but were disarmed by the depu
ties. .They were released, but biter
Baughan ordered their arrest. They
I had not been apprehended to-night.
| t> I.'AIID OF PIVK JIIC.V
WITH EACn SEIZUIXB
I To-day's raiding was carried out
, s> sterna tical I y, and whenever contra
i hand liquor was found a guard of five
| men was left to prevent its being car
ried away. It was said to-day that
i detectives had been working In Glrard
; for some time, and that the Attorney.
, i-ieneral's men had information which
made much of their work compara
j lively easy.
(.?Iraid has been known as a "wide
, open town, despite Alabama's prohibi
tion laws, which are very stringent. It
! ,s Sai<1 that many thousands of dollars'
| worth of liquor, some placing tho
! amount as high as $500,000, was car
Ined ncroas thft 8tale Une when
t.eorgia's prohibition laws became ettec
| ti\e. May 1.
. Following complaints'made to State
officials, according to reports, the of
| f. Tt?ssell County. in which
G raid Is located, were notified that
Ulrard must be "cleaned up." The of
I n?U tS Sa,,i' ci,h<!r were unable or
unwilling to do so. and the Attorney
general, who is armed with wide
; powers under the prohibition laws, de
cld&d to take a hand.
NEEDS $54,000 BY JUNE 1
Com in trier Charged Mlth Uquldattn*
Debt of University of South
Ittcelvc* Reports.
NASHVILLE, TENS., May 17.?A
hewanee, Tenn., special says that when
the central committee charged with
raising $300,000 to
of tho University off
yeater<Jfty afternoon
B^aoopeJ dtoceaea in the
smith, tho unn of 1196,400 *ra? tha
****** *** m ?
