THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNIN&, MAY 18, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI., NO. 366
DEEMER RESCUtU-tXPEDITION MAY BE WITHDRAWN
Over Half Million To Be War Strength of United States ArmylWBM
SENATE
ON ARMY II
After All Day Debate Ac
cepts Conference Report
On Army Reorganization
Measure Without Calling
of the Roll
soon TO BEACH
. THK PRESIDENT
House Is Expected to Ap
prove Report Within Day
or Two and Send 1 defense
Measure Ou to the President
A USTRIANS ARE STILL
ON THE OFFENSIVE
AGAINST ITALIANS
-
MANY ARE EXAMINED
FEW ARE CHOSEN !
i WAUKEGAN, 111., May 17. One
hundred and thirty-six veniremen j
I were examined today in the trial !
; of Will H. orpi't, I'niversity of j
Wisconsin student, charged with
j poisoning his sweetheart. Marion
I Lambert, and at the 'lose of the
ihird day just four men occupied 1
j the box as tentative jurymen, f
! Counsel 'or Orput announced that
he would take the stand in his I
own defense.
D D
South of Trent Heavy In
fantry Attacks Forced
Italians Again to Aban
don Some of Their Ad
vanced Positions
UHION !
OF TIE ISO !
PRIVY Nltll
NEW RECRUITS REACH
CAMP AT DOUGLAS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 17. The sen
ate after an all day debate agreed to
night to the conference report on the
army reorganization bill without roll
call. The house is expected to approve
the report within a day or two and
send the first of the big national de
fense measures to the president.
IIILUUI1 IIWI U
mm mm m m I A r P" A A
i in i i i in i i
i nft i Nhnrhii
WWisfWl.sBMWW
Will SOON END
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
From the Tonale pass region in
Western Trentino to, Monfalcone, a
short distance from the bead of the
Gulf ot Trieste, the Austrians are vig
orously on the offensive against the
Italians.
In Tyrol to the south of Trent,
heavy infantry attacks to the east of
the Adige river have forced the Ital
ians again to abandon some of their
I advanced positions and resulted in
the capture by the Austrians of an
aggregate of 141 officers and O00
men. In addition 13 guns and 17 ma-
! chine guns were captured.
Vienna says that south of Roverto
the Austrians stormed Zegnatorta but
Rome asserts that the five attacks
launched were put down with heavy
casualties, the bodies of numerous
dead Austrians floating away in the
swift current of the Adige river.
The repulse of another Austrian at
tack in the Sugana valley also is
Along the re-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire service, as the companies must have
DOUGLAS, Ariz., May 17. Thirty "peace strength" of sixty-five men be-
.. , . . . T.T-,rti , fore that formality can be gone through
recruits for the Arizona National Guard . ... ..... V
arrived here tonight from Tucson and
were taken to the camp. Their coming
i.s noteworthy because although the
Lniy,;., QiiTAnyi !, CLv 1 State has been flooded with literature
l e 1 1 1 1 e I is r w ( 1 1 1 1 ill nip , , . , , , . . , .
arid much eflort lias been expended by
1 hat lie -May Have Ac- the adjutant general's office to secure
tual Voice in Shaping the I lhe "rs tu arrive
. . . t A , . : here so far.
rllture Administration Locally, recruiting is advancing with
J.mJ : the same slowness which is evident in
; other parts of the state.
)f I IT
with. Each man will also have to sub
mit to the same rigid physical exam
ination to which the regular army re
cruit is subjected, before he is ac
cepted. Several officers of the regiments
composing the Sixth infantry grigade
reached Douglas today from the army
service school at Fort Leavenworth,
Kan., having been ordered to rejoin
their regiments although their course
was not completed. Others are ex-
BELIEVE PROBLEM
SOON SETTLED
London Papers Teem With
Suggestions of Settlement
and Favor Granting Ex
ecutive Government to
South and West Ireland
It was learned today that this is one pected to join from the same school
of tlie deterrent features to the mils- and from the war college in Wash
tering of the regiment into the federal ington. D. C, within the next few days.
IEIEWEB SMS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Mav 17. 1'ntil Premier
Asquith's return to London at the .
end of the week, nothing definite is
likely to be done as the result of bis I
visit in Ireland, lie is still consult-
renins
RODRIGUEZ IS PENNSYLVANIA
LOKELY TO HANG NOMINATIONS
AMERICANS ARE
FOUND All
Punitive Expedition Com
manded by Colonel Sibley
Reaches El Pino After
Bandits Had Fled and -Rescues
Prisoners
PURSUIT OF THE
BANDITS GOES ON'
Hespite "Hot Trail," Force
of Colonel Sibley is Inad
equate and Order May He
Issued for Tts Early Recall
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, May 17. Adolfo de la
WASHINGTON. Mav 17. President
iv-iiann talk-in..- witli congressional reported by Rome
n . :ji,j hi. rini. . I mainder of the front there were and is expected
tlon at the" progress being made on ! heavV artillery bombardments with row. where he will become acquainted I the headquarters of C.encral P. Ella,
W-islntion simoorted bv the adminis-! here and there infantry attacks. with the nationalist views. In the I Calles, military governor of Sonora
I
tag with various authorities with LH8ftrU arrjv((1 today in llermosillo. penllsvh,llli:l pWma'ry ele
view to obtaining all possible views. . I ' .
... . .. -. . according to a telegram received it I. S. Senator limes rem
and is expected to visit ( ork tomor- !....,
The bill provides for a regular army
of 211,000 officers and men at peace ; errs, would be able to adjourn earlv in I ,,0'h sides have taken place against
tration and expressed hdpe that con- ! bombing operations by aviators on meantime no step towards tiling tlie : .,nd tom0rrow. according to Ives G
strength and approximately 260,000 at
war strength, and for a federalized na
tional guard of 457,000 officers and
men at maximum strength.
Discussion of the conference report
embraced a denunciation of Great
Britain for execution of the Irish rev
olutionists, attacks upon the adminis
tration's Mexico policy, renewed as
saults upon the national guard as a
political force, and vigorous criticism
of the provision for a government ni
trate manufacturing plant.
Senator Fall asserted that General
Pershing, with the 14,000 troops at his
command, could march on to Mexico
City, taking every town with little
Lelevier, Mexican consul, will take of-
the summer. It is the hope of the j vwvmhb positions,
president to see most of the adminis-, ' n the fror.t in Prance and Bel
tration program completed before the Bium Ue fighting has consisted
political conventions in June. .mainly of artillery duels to the north-
Representative Eagle of Texas told of
the president he thought congress 1 The ,ent("Ue irm ''een par-
would adjourn by the middle of July. ' !cularly Gprm:'
., .., 1V, i .. .,,!;-, ttons, and there have been combats in
believe it will be possible to complete' the air wit'' prman fliers. In these greatest significance to this step be- chief ot 20 (Kill troops assembled 1n the
the executive program before that. ' lattf r eo-aabmta, several German air- , caus it will give the premier an ac-,sl.lte.
'onator Kern maloritv leader of the ' craft w''re br"u8ht down by Hritish i tual voice in shaping the administra- , Tnis ts certninty. almost, as De la
vacancies in the Irish administration
is hcine taken and it i.s supposed '
that the main reason for the pretn-1 rlc as civil governor of Sonora.
ier's being sworn in as a member of j It is broadly intimated in official
the Irish privy council is that he may I quarter! that De la Hutrta. while gov-
become the responsible minister in
parliament for Irish affairs temporarily.
The nationalist member
-mor in name, will be subordinate in
every detail to General Calles, who re-
ittach the I tains tlie position of commander-in-
senate, however, has said adjournment
and French aviators. In one of the. lion of Ireland.
Huerta has publicly pledged himself to
may not come before August IT., and i ,umI -" .maiors iignung wun i ne t.onuon paiiers leem wan ou- i continue General Calles- policies and
Sneaker Clark thinks it hardlv will be ' the Fronc'" army under the title of I gestions of a possible settlement of lo rtt:)in :,n of his appointees in the
practicable to get away then.
the Franco-American Flying corps,
took Mflrr in thoir tlrmt tnmmi .... ,. n
The democratic platform will he innlviljual nit
based in large part on the record of i pi-Mi nr min,. im,. ,..i,v.
trouble if he were unhampered by or- I legislation enacted. The drafting of the the advantage iM f.lvor ()f hp Rus
ders from Washington, and that ninety P'auoim ai.eau ua utra ucsu.i aim
lr cent of the Mexican people would for that reason the PBress heing made
welcome such action. He declared also
that representatives of General Ca-
sians, have taken place on the north
ern end of the Russian front. In
the Irish problem. They f: vor for
the most part the idea of granting
executive government to South and
West Ireland, leaving Ulster under
the imperial government. They point
out that should experience show suc
cessful results in the south and west
rranza were negotiating with foreign
governments against the United Stales
and that this government would be
forced to fight foreign forces on Mex
ican soil if it did not soon do its full
duty to the people of Mexico and the
1'nited States.
Senator Itorah of Idaho, renewing
bis attack on the national guard as a
political force, declared that it would
prove to be mora detrimental to the
l.'nlted States than an Invading army.
He arraigned Great Britain for the
Irish executions, declaring there had
been no greater blow to free Institu
tions since the European war began.
Senator Lodge and Chairman Stone
of the foreign relations, committee also
criticized the army bill, the former
blaming the house for not accepting a
larger regular army proposed by the
senate, and the latter maintaining that
the proposed army was too great.
particularly wants passed before the
conventions are the sniping bill, the
rural credits bill, the Philippines and
Porto Rican bills, the tariff commis
sion bill and a corruption practice act.
He has been told it may be possible
to complete all of these bills in time
Turks again assumed the offensive , might eventually be inclined to come
in under that parliament
, vZT. I , , I Asiatic Turkey around Diarbekr the Minder the Dublin parliament. Ulster
I ne measuies which uie piesiueui. ti. d,. ,
with a repulse.
The French are showing .activity
along the Lake Doiran and other
sectors of the Serbo-Kreelt frontier,
having occupied Dcvetepe and pushed
the forces east toward Monastir. The
both
infttntM An . . i I. i .1.1
1 : JJ ,! ,. ""J OTIU MW illOMK MM
'inn ii in j '..ii uru an tri tain iiir ,11111. r
.... ... . - . . . tront continue to make preparations
bill will be ready for his signature long , ...
before the republican convention. for possible encounters.
Postmaster General Burleson dis- L f f . ,h""' Americans on board the
cussed the political situation with tnp P''h steamer Batayier V, which was
president today and afterwards he said SUn y ,pl08lon in ,hp N'"r,h
he thought former Governor Glynn of
I sea. one was drowned. One of the
New York undoubtedly would be tern- i
porary chairman of the democratic
convention. He also indicated he he- j
lieved Speaker Champ Clark would be ;
permanent chairman, although friends
of the speaker say he does not expect
to attend the convention.
The president has not decided defin
itely where he will be during the con-
Americans expresses the belief that
the steamer struck a mine.
Senator Ilrandegee, author of the I vention. hut he might go to his sum
amendment for a regular standing mer home, "Shadow Lane," in New
army of ISMM men at peace strength, 'Jersey, if the foreign situation does not
which was rejected by the conference I necessitate his presence in Wash-
declared that the English language was ; ng'0'1
inadequate to express his disgust at
the conference action and said he
hoped "the good Lord who guards the
destinies will save the nation."
Senator Raker said tonight that as
soon as President Wilson has signed
the bill he will begin consultations
with the general staff to put the meas
ure into effect.
o
HARRISON SUCCEEDS YOUNG
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., May 17. To
night Washington was chosen by the
United Confederate Veterans for the
1917 reunion and General George P.
Harrison of Alabama was elected commander-in-chief
to succeed General
I'.ennett Young of Kentucky. The Sons
of Veterans today elected Ernest P.
Baldwin of Virginia their commander.
Old Form Has Had Day
DUBLIN, May 17 - Premier Asq tilth
has reported the conclusion from im
pressions" gathered during his Irish
visit that the old form of govern
ment in Ireland has had its day. The
Associated Press learns from sources
in, closest touch with the premier that
Mr. Asquith conversations and con
ferences have convinced him that the
future government must be conducted
on an entirely different system.
The prime minister has taken care
to learn that ideas and views of
mnnv persons otheY than those in
Monitor Reported Sunk I purely official circles ami these per-
LONDON, May 17. A British of - sons have offered greatly varied sug
ficial communication issued this even- gestions. None of these, it is be
ing, admits the loss of a small mon- i lieved. could be adopted in its entire
itor as a result of the fire of Turk-jty but it is thought they might he
Ish batteries. The monitor in a ' welded together to form a proposal
Turkish official statement Tuesday 'to lay before the cabinet. The prem
was reported as having been set on ier himself does not know what form
fire. The British admiralty denied, his proposal eventually will take. and.
the statement but says later advices I in fact, it will probably be fully de
veloped only at the cabinet meeting.
(Continued from Page Two)
TIFT'S OPINION O N PHILIPPINES
GAN'TBEGIVEN BEFORE LADIES
Rputl'can A. P. Leased Wire
LAKE MOHONK, N. Y.. May it
William H. Taft appeared before the
Lake Mobonk conference on interna
tional arbitration tonight as a mission
ary for the League to Enforce Peace.
In taking his place as presiding of
ficer here, Mr. Taft answered the pa-
Flood Waters of Colorado
Are Threatening Needles
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j The water was gaining on them to
NEEDLES, Calf., May 1?. Flood j night
waters of the Colorado river were j Employes of the Santa Fe railway
threatening tonight to cut a new chan- were fighting to prevent the river
nel through the center of the industrial ' from cutting a new channel to the
center of Needles. One portion of the south of the smelter, but little hop
residence section has been surrounded I was entertained that they would be
by water and the people are preparing ' successful.
cifists who object to the league because
it pre-supposes the use of force. He
replied also to critics of the league
who believed it would draw the United
States Into "entanglement alliances."
"I do not think we have reached a
time," said Mr. Taft, "when force as
an aid to moral impulse could be dis
pensed with. We need a police force at
home, and the same need exists be
tween nations.
"As regards the fears of entangle
ment alliances our situation now is
very different from what it was when
Washington gave his warning."
He enumerated the developments
which had brought the United States
into inevitable contact with the for
eign lowers. Speaking of the Philip
pines he declared:
"I cannot tell you what 1 think of our
present Philippines policy in the presence-
of the ladies."
Mexico he characterized as an inter
national nuisance, likely to entail
greater burdens upon us.
His Belfast visit gave a good hint
to the premier that the Flsterites
would not accept a direct proposal
implying home rule hut it is believed
they might be induced to enter into
a concerted plan which possibly- could
he arranged to meet their most ser
ious objections.
Mr. Asquith will visit Cork tomor
row to gather further opinions. He
however, has not arranged to see the
politicians. Most of these with whom by peace and prosperity
he will confer are of the literary and
educational classes.
various state offices.' Thus General
Calles will not alone retain all power,
but a mere word would be in posHion
to set aside any of the civil governor's
official acts.
Mr. Lelevier returned today from
Phoenix, where he interviewed Gov
ernor George W. P. Hunt of Arizona,
i.s well as the state board of pardons,
in relation to reprieves for Francisco
Rodriguez, who is sentenced to be
banged for murder at the state prison
at Florence. May and for Eduardo
Perez. N. B. Chavez and Miguel Pe
ralta, also to hang for murder on later
dates
He feels morally certain that Rod
riguez will be executed, but is confi
dent that reprieves and possible com
mutation of sentence to life impris
onment will be given in the other
ca -es. In any eVent. he hopes to se
cure a reprieve until the fall election
when the question of capital punish
ment will again he revived under a
referendum petition.
Lelevier presented a petition con
taining the names of 5000 Mexicans,
naturalized citizens of the United
States and voters of Arizona to the
board of pardons in support of his
1 lea for official clemency. The board
is holding a meeting in Phoenix today,
deciding the question of a reprieve for
Rodriguez.
Lelevier carried with him an official
letter of greeting from General P.
Elias Calles to Governor Hunt and a.
verbal message from Adolfo De la
Huerta. the Sonora civil governor, to
the same official. He was cordially
received bj the governor, and brought
back with him messages of felicita
tion to Calles upon his excellent ad
ministration of Sonora affairs and to
De la Huerta, expressing the hope that
his term of office would be marked
Republican A. P. l eased Wire
HILADELPHIA May 17 In the
lection contest,
en rose was vic
torious in the most determined effort
that ever has been made to verthrow
his leadership in this state. Despite
the energetic fight waged against him
by thefaction of the party which chose
Governor Brumbaugh for its leader,
Senator Penrose nominated his candi
date for auditor general of the state,
Charles A. Snyder, by from 25,000 to
40,000 majority. A majority of the 76
delegates elected to the national con
vention are Penrose men and a new
state committee was chosen that will
elect him a member of the republican
national committee to succeed Henry
G. Wasson of Pittsjturg.
Incomplete return indicate that
Governor Brumbaugh, running ahead
of his ticket was apparently elected a
delegate at large to the national con
vention, (t is not yet certain that any
of his eleven colleagues on the anti
Penrose ticket for delegates at large
were successful.
Returns received late tonight from
4,659 districts out of f.891 in the state,
including all of Philadelphia, show
that Governor Brumbaugh led Senator
Penrose in the voting for republican
national delegate at large "by 6,871
votes. Only scattering returns have
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, May 17 An early
withdrawal of the punitive expedition
commanded by Colonel Frederick Sib
ley, south of Boquillas, was indicated
at department headquarters today.
The rescue of Jesse Defmer. the
American storekeeper and Monroo
Payne, the negro cook who were car
ried across the border by bandits
when they raided Glenn Springs and
Boquillas, twelve days ago, was re
ported today by Colonel Sibley, who
received his information from Major
I.angborne, who reported that he was
endeavoring to overtake the bandits
who had eluded him at El Pino, from
where he sent the report and where
he found Deemer and Payne.
Officers here regarded It as prob
able that a successful encounter w ith,
the bandits would bring the expedi
tion to an end and not at all im
probable that failure to overtake them
also would be followed by a recall.
It was explained at headquarters that
four troops of cavalry and the ma
chine gun company operating unler
Colonel Sibley south of the boder v as
altogether inadequate for effective
operations and that further pursuit of.
the bandits was unlikely.
Deemer and Payne had been left at
El Paso by the retreating bandits with
instructions to the residents that they
he killed if an attempt to rescue was
made. The residents of the village
refused to obey instructions professing
their friendship to the Americans
when they entered th town yesterday
morning.
Reports from General Pershing Wcro
characterized as routine.
Information from Mexico indicated
that the troop movement toward the
border had assumed such mpirnitude.
been received from the counties on the as to indicate that before many days
other candidates in both republican
factions for delegajes at large.
In the contest for the republican
nomination for auditor general, re
turns from 5,061 districts out of 6,891
in the state, including all of Phila
delphia and much of Allegheny, show
that Snyder is leading Amb'er by
nearly 10,000 votes.
the number of Carranza troops in
northern Mexico would be even great
er than General Obregon had (aid to
would send.
Two regiments of Texas national
guard under direction of Brigadier
General John A. Hulen of the state
troops, will be the first force of ir
regulars to go to border stations.
They were included today in the al
lottment made by Major General
Federick Funston, in his plan of a
reorganized border patrol. They will
be in the Brownsville district, extend
ing from the Gulf coast to Arroya El
Tigre, near Roma. General James
Democrats Gathering Tarker will command that district re-
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo.. May porting to him being Colonel A. P.
17. Scores of democrats from all over Blocksom. With the Third cavalry.
Colorado arrived today Tor the state Colone R. L. Pullard, 26th infantry,
convention which meets here tomor- and Colonel E. H. Pummer, 2Sth in
row to elect four delegates-at -large to fantry. In that district there will be
Roosevelt is Endorsed
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., May 17 The
progressive state convention today en
dorsed Theodore Roosevelt for president.
(Continued on Page Two) ' (Continued on Page Three)
OHM DENIES EXPRESSING
OPINION AS TO SITUATION
HO NEW BISHOPS
among the leaders as were Charles B
Mitchell of Chicago and Chancellor
Franklin Hamilton of the American
university, Washington. D. C. All of
them had been among the first ten of
evcrv liallot.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY. May 17. General
Alvaro Obregon, minister of war, to
dny denied reports in circulation in the
United States that he had expressed
IE BEEN CHOSEN New Mexican Guards Slip
Over Border Are Arrested
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SA ilATOGA SPRINGS, N. Y.. May
17 Although four ballots had beeri
taker, tonight the Methodist Episcopal
general conference had not been able
to elect ar.y of the seven new bishops
determined upon by the conference
yesterday. On the fourth ballot, Rev.
M. S. Hughes of Pasadena, Cal., who
headed the list of candidates with 454
Votes, lacked 76 of the necessary two-third'-
majority.
Republican A. D. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS. N. M., May 17. A
number of New Mexico national
guardsmen were brought back to camp
here today under guard, after having
caused the American border patrol at
"The Gate," three miles south, as well
as the Carranza customs guards there,
to flee from their homes. Melting snow
in the mountains is causing the flood.
Two hundred men have been work
ing since yesterday to prevent the
flood from demolishing the smelter,
city water works, and many homes.
Several huts have been washed away
in the Indian settlement. Others were
being moved back to higher ground by
the occtiants.
The crest of the flood was expected
to pass here Friday.
Ultimately," he continued, "we read Rev. Adna W. Leonard, of Seattle
the word in the headlines of the daily Wash., was in second place, with 4"9
papers and then we read before break- ' votes, and a third representative from
fast what is under the headlines. It ! the far west. Rev. C. E. Locke, of Los
shows how close we are to war. It Angeles, was in ninth. place, with 285
some alarm. The approach of the men
nother Pacific coast clergyman, 1 who were on a sight-seeing trip, made
the Mexican officials believe a new
shows how being a neutral is not more
likely to keep us out of war than tak
ing our place among other nations."
votes.
President Herbert Welch of Ohio,
Wesleyan university, was well up
rivals from Mexico indicate that Gen-
confidence that President Wilfon did
not contemplate war with Mexico.
"Please deny the report that I have
made a public declaration of confi
dence that President Wilson does not
contemplate war with Mexico," sairl
General Obregon. "I have made no
declaration, public or private regard
ing international relations since leav
ing El Paso."
Trevino Has Many Men
TORREON. Mexico, May 17. Be
fore leaving for Chihuahua, where ho
will take supreme command of the
forces operating against the bandits
eral J. ,1. Pershing is re-distributing I m Cnihual.ua and l oahuila. General
some of his troops along the northern ! Trevino said today: .
end of the line of communication, j "I am going to Chihuahua with 10.
Other official reports say considerable 000 fresh men, making, with the 7000
unrest exists among the natives and new on the front, a total of 17,000
the resident Americans in the occupied troops. These will be distributed at
district, begotten by rumors that the j all important points, both inland and
troops were to be withdrawn. Some i on the frontier, to prevent further
stories were to the effect that VUUstas i raids into the states and to finish up
in San Antonio and neighboring com- i Villistas quickly. I am arranging spe-
body of troops was about to cross the
frontier. The two patrol forces mount
ed and stopped the guardsmen just
as they unknowingly crossed the bor
der. The militiament were released
after explanations at the base camp.
Stories brought here tonight by ar-
munities had made reprisals on persons
who transacted business with the
American forces.
About a score of officers from the
army schools at Fort Leavenworth and
Fort Sill reached here today on their
way to join their regiments in Mexico.
cial motor truck service to the isolated
garrisons in order to supply provis
ions:' A railroad strike here for more pay
has been averted by1 an appeal to the
men's patriotism during the present
delicate international situation.
If
