VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
TURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
1GW15 nlO M NUMBER 47.
First Primary Ever Held in the State Brings Out
Light Vote Returns from Each of Three
Widely Separated Counties Show Little Dif
ference in Sentiment Practically No Opposi
tion to Wilson McCall Gets 110 Votes in
Lyndon Henry Ford, Root and LaFollette
Are Favored by a Few.
SENATORS ATTACK
ADMINISTRATION
AND GT, BRITAIN
AUSTINS BEGIN
ATTACK ON ENTIRE
ITALIAN FRONT
Troops in Southern Tyrol Retire
Austrians Capture 111 Offi
cers and fi,200 Men besides
Large Number of Guns.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
ASQUITH IS
MIDDLEBURY.
VERDUN AIRMEN ARE BUSY
The voters of Vermont had their first experience with a
primary Tuesday. it was not a full-fledged primary, be
cause no nominations were made, but it afforded an oppor
tunity for those who desired to register their preference for a
presidential nominee.
Because of the lack of any direct connection between the
primaries and the nomination of a candidate, or even the se
lection of delegates to the convention that will nominate a
candidate, it was predicted that only a light vote would be cast
thruoghout the State, and the returns, so far as received, in
dicate that such was the case.
Three widely separated counties were selected as probably
representative of the sentiment of the entire State, and to
these were added the larger towns in other counties. From
these lfturns at midnight last night it appeared that Justice
Hughe;' iod former President Roosevelt almost two to one, and
Some Heated Oratory Follows
an Agreement to Conference
Report on the Army Reorgan
ization Rill.
CARRANZA IS CRITICIZED
(Senator Fall Declares De Facto
I Chief Is Negotiating with For-
Several German Aeroplanes
Brought Down American
Aviators with French Army
Take Part in First Foray As
Individual Fighting Unit.
London, May IT. Interest In the war
operation lias suddenly shifted to tho
Italian front when- tin- Austrlans liavo
begun to attack along the whole! line,
luit particularly in southern Tyrol
against tho Ililian troop-. threatening
Tl flit.
Hero the Italian troops occupied po
sitions just over the Austrian border
from the Adigo valley, south of Hover
eto, to the Astleo valley. The Austrian
attacks cover a ft out of twenty-three
that 1
party.
.lent Wilson had practically no opposition in his own
Ucuusc , '-o requirement of the
IVormont 1 ' t at a candidate In the
Jirimnrle.-i i . eivc his consent to the
use of his name, and hecause neither
Justice Charles E. Hughes nor Then
floie Roosevelt would give such consent,
theto was only one name on the pti
Jnary ballot, that of Woodrow Wilson.
Those wliii wished to vote for any one
rise weie, therefore, obliged to write
the name of the man of their choice
pr use the "stickers," which wore to be
had in some places.
Resides Hughes, Rooseiolt and AVil
pon, 'he onlj man who polled any con
siderable number of votes was Governor
McCall of Massachusetts. Mrs. McCall
Is a native ol Lyndon, In Caledonia
county, and that town save her hus
band 110 votes. St. .Johnslmry added IS
and other towns in the county swelled
Ills total to lob Of the ."'J scattering
Votes In Rutland county, 55 were for
Klihti Hoot of New V'ork. Scattering
m tes were also cast for Henry Ford,
pneaker Champ Clark anil Senator
I. a Toilette among others.
'Pie tip nes from Caledonia, Chitten
den and Rutland counties follow:
lit Ti.A.Mi cor.vrv.
II. R. W. S.
Tlenson 12 4 11 1
Brandon 01 IT ." 10
Cnstloton 10 2 10 1
Chittenden 22 1
Clarendon 7 " ... 1
IDanOy
Fair Haven 13 13 15 7
Hubbaiilton 21 I! 10
Ira 1ft n ... 1
Slendon .1 ,-, 4 ;
Midilletown Springs 1:! 27 11
J'oiint Holly 0 ; 1
Wo mi' Tabor 5 2 2
Tan let nj 5 2T 1
I'lt'sfleld 10 2 3
Flttsfoid 20 ft 2ft
Toultney 41 12 11
Tioctor U 1T 20 4
R itland city JS7 15S 1M 21
Rutland town 13 0 5
S lerburne 12 ii 2
Shrewsbury S 37
Kudhury 16 1 10 1
Tlnmouth
"U'alllngford 22 60 17 3
Wells 0 ... s
West Haven 11 ... 4
West Rutland .... 24 15 11 3
Totals 177 4;2 53
Vote in Larger Towns.
11. it. w. s.
Ha no 120 r7 ir.il s
Barton till 71 "0 0
Bennington IIS 4S i,:i 10
Bethel 2ft 25 22 Ii
Rrnttlebnro .... US 53 41 S
Bristol 74 21 32
Chester 01 17 I 2
Derby IS 20
Enoshnrg 4ft 17 is
Hartford 21 15 27 10
Hyde Park 2.! 13 IS 1
Ludlow i"i r5 20 3
Manchester 4S 20 8 3
Middlebury "0 20 31 20
Montpelier 174 ST 101 IS
Morrlstown 35 4T 2S 2
Newport 2S 4T 34 3
Randolph 53 32 51 7
Rlcbford 10 41 r,l 1
RockhiKham .... 4t 30 20 0
St. Albans city (,0 77 110 11
St. Albans town 11 5 0
Springfield IS 53 17 li
Stoue 32 17 30 1
Swanton 30 31 55 1
Vergennes 30 25 44 3
Waterbury 01 2S 23 1
Wlndsoi 10 2ft ft 1
Woodstock 2s 21 It 1
Totals 1555 1030 122.3 117
United States England
raigned for Irish Policy.
G. O. P
LEANING
TOWARDS HUGHES
ciUTTnNnnv county.
II. R. W. S.
oltnn 1 ... r
Burlington 2tO 152 21VI 21
Charlotte 41 13 r, 1
Colchester IS 9 73 5
Slsscx U5 35 31
Jllncsburg 31 11 13
Jluntlngton 2ft 0 21 1
Jericho 33 11 13
Milton 12 TO ft
Itlehinond 2ft 21) 31
F lelMiirno 31 0 15
Fouth Burlington... 1ft 0 13
fit. George 5 5 1
Tndcrhlll 21 2 31 1
"Wcstford 22 20 6
IV llllston SS D 3
Totals "It 34-t 552 32
Washington, May 17. Tho michaperom d
and unauthorized movement In behalf ol
the nomination of Justice Hughes as tt.e
republican candidate for president is ex
pected to be materially strengthened won
by announcements of Important ropuHl
can loaders advocating his selection.
Some of the old line leaders are credlU'.l
with having made up their minds to siip
poit the ex-governor of New York, and
enthusiastic Hughes men here pro pro
dieting that when thu lepulillcan national
convention meets in Chicago on June I
the Hughes sentiment will bo so strong
that the justice's nomination will conio
on the second ballot.
Ex-Senator W Murray Crane of Massa
chusetts, who has alwavs been accounted
one of tho Old Guard, is said to bo foi
Justice Hughes. Positive statements to
that effect are brought to Washington
from Massachusetts and Ne.w York.
Thoso who profess to know something
about Mr. Crano's position fray ho be
lieves that with Juttlco Hughes as the
n ptibllcan nominee republican victory in
tho national election would be sure, while
with any other candidate tho outcome
would bo Involved in doubt.
Mr. Crane Is one of the four dck'Kate.s-at-largo
to the Chicago convention. They
woro elected without Instructions In the
face of an opposition ticket pledged to
tho candidacy of Colonel Roosevelt. At
least one other of the dolefuiles-at-larse
is believed to bo strongly In favor of Jus
tice Hughes.
Washington, May 17. The Senate with
inn roll call acreed to-lilght to the con-
I feience report on tho army rcorgnnlza
I tion bill.
I The bill provides for a regular army of
' 211,o) otllcers and men at peace strength,
1 and approximately 200.H0') at war strength,
1 and for a federalized national guard of
157,001) ofllceis and men at maximum
strencth.
Discussion of tile conference lepoit
I embraced a denunciation of Groat Miltaln
1 for execution of the Irish revolutionists,
j attacks on the administration'!! Mexican
! policy, lenewed assaults on the national
, guard as a political force, and various
I criticisms of the provision for a govern
; ment nitrate manufactuilug plant,
i Senator Fall asseited that General
; Pcishlng with the 14,oo0 Hoops at his
command, could march on to Mexico City
! taking every town witli little trouble if
I he were unhampered by orders from
Washington and unit M lie cent of the
Mexican Peonle would welcome such
action. He also ileclan d that representa
i tlvi s of Geneial Canauza wore
, negotiating with foieigu governments
I against the Cnltod Stales and that this
, government would bo forced to light fcr
I oign forces on Mexican soil If It did not
I soon do Its full duty to tin- people of
I Mexico and the I'lilted States.
. Senator Iloiah of Idaho renewing his
I attack on the national guard as a
political force, di-lared that It would
prove to bo more detrimental to the
Cuited States than an Invading army.
He arraigned Gloat iiiilaln for the Irish
pxeiution, dedal lug there hail been no
greater blow to free Institutions since the
Kuropoa'' war began.
Senator Lodge and Chainnau Stone of
tho foreign relations committee also
I criticised the tit my bill, the former
blaming tho House for not accepting a
larger regular army proposed by the
Senate, and the latter maintaining that
the proposed army was too great. Sena
tor Stone said he was so anxious to
koo the nitiate provision enacted that
ho would almost be willing to agree to
uny size nrinv necessary, but Insisted
there was 110 need of an inoreased army.
Senator Hrandegee, author of the
amendment for a regular standing army
of 250,000 men at peace strength, which
was rejected by this confeteiicc, declared
that tits Hngllsh language was Inade
quate to express ills disgust nt the con
ference action and said lie hoped "the
good Loid who guards the drunkard
and the fool will have the nation,"
eign Governments against the.mih
'I'll,. Tlnlltinu mlmlt ilinl,' vol I rein nti t
Ar- on tills front and the latest official
Austrian account claims continued
gains, the laptuio of several enemy
positions and the penetration of the
Tcivagnola sector, the driving of the
Italians from Moschere and tile storm
ing of Zognatorta during the night.
The tnt.al Austi Inn captures 11111 -.her
141 officers and 0,200 men besides
thirteen guns and seventeen machine
guns.
On the line In Franco and Belgium
the lighting consisted mainly of artil
lery duels most severe northwest of
Verdun. The entente allied airmen
have been particularly active against
German positions nnd in combats in the
air with German fliers. In these latter
combats several German air craft wore
brought down by British and French
aviators. In .one of the raids Ameri
can aviators lighting with the French
army under the title the Franco-
American (lying corps took part In
their first foray as an Individual unit.
Fights of minor importance, with the
advantage In favor of the Russians,
have taken place on the northern end of
tile Russian front.
In Asiatic Turkey around Dlarbekr the
Turks avtaln assumed the offenstvo
against the Russians, but again met
with a tepulse.
The French are showing activity along
the Lake Dolran nnd othor sectors of
tho Serlio-Greek frontier, having oc
cupied Develepe and pushed their forces
eastward toward Monastlr. The Infan
try of both sides along this front con
tinue to make preparations for possible
encounters.
Of three Americans on board the Dutch
steamer Ratavler V, which was sunk
by an explosion in the Notth sea, one
was drowned. One of the Americans
exptesses the belief that tlio steamer
htruck a mine.
TEACHERS LEAVE
RUTLAND HIGH SCHOOL
MUCH LIQUOR SEIZED;
WOMAN ARRESTED
cai.iiiio.ma :oi;.vt'v.
H. It. W. S.
Barnct -'" 7 14 5
Jlurko 7 13 7 4
Danville 11 13 12 1
Oroton 13 1 8
Hardwlck 4S 2S 20 6
Khby S ... 2 ..
ILyndon S 21 21 110'
Newark 10 S 4 1
J'eachnm 2d 11 7 ..
Jtyegato 20 II 10 1
Sheffield 0 3 2 5
f-'iannnrd
M Johnsbury 132 S3 45 20"
Sutton "... 7 2S (i 2
A aldeu
"Wnterforil 15 1 1
Wheclock 0 7 9
Totals 315 257 173 102
Fur McCall.
i:iKhtcctl fur JlcCull,
WESTERNERS EXPECT
HUGHES TO SPEAK
Chicago, May 17. More and more Amer
icans aro standing- in front of tho sphinx.
admiring. The Hughes llns aro still olo-
'incut witli silence, but somewhere In tho
vicinity there is a spirit which speaks
Indistinctly and there Is growing belief
that tho Justco will soon break the silence.
.Many cryptic mesf-nges havo been re
ceived by prominent Chicago people, and
in quior ways 11 nan boon made known
that Iho Justice, is sound on all those
questions which have tho profoundost ill.
terest for his fellow countrymen.
Thero Is comfort In this situation to the
citizen who likes quiet, for he has 11 faint
hope that there will be 11 silent campaign
Instead of tho vulgar brass band, tho Ham-
Rutland, May 17. Mrs. Catherine
Crowe Mangan was arrested to-night
following a raid at her homo when
tho police officers seized several gal
lons of whiskey, some In bottles and
the remainder in jugs. The police have
suspected tho Illicit transactions in
booze in this immediate vicinity fur sev
eral months and the opportunity for the
raid came this afternoon, when Mrs.
Mnngan registeied a complaint witli the
police of tlio loss of $1(10, a peculiar chain
of circumstances leading up to tho issu
ance of search warrants.
Mrs. Mangan complained of being
robbed of $100 on Tuesday afternoon,
The saloons worn closed all day on ac
count of the primary election, but Mrs.
Mnngan hud two strangers como to her
house and she entertained them for an
hour or so.
Ono of these men returned tills after
noon about one o'clock and after stay
ing a half hour ho excused himself, say
Ing lie wished to get some air. Leaving
IiIh hat in the house he walked out on
piazza. Ho Is still taking tlio air
in spite of a diligent search by
police to-day, neither ho nor $100 of
woman's money could be located
Rutland, May 17 The time for
teachers ill thu Rutland public schools
to sign contracts for re-engagement
next fall expired to-day and nine mem
bers of the high school teaching staff
of 15 members tailed to qualify. Of
those wlio will quit their Jobs two fail
ed of ro-electlon, ono was caught by
Cupid's snares, two resigned to take
better positions and the balance
have not Hindu public their plans for
next season.
Raymond C. Bridges, head of tho
scionce department, who Is to leave.
was granted an Increase in salary of
flOO by tlio board of education, aim
Miss Anna L. Butler of Proctor, an
othor who failed to qualify, was re
lected with a $50 raise. Tlio others
who did not sign contracts were Miss
Rowcna 13. Purdon, Miss Mary U Moor,
who Is to be married, Miss Nellie I. But
ton, Miss Marlon 13. Monroe and Miss
Marlon Thomas. Prill, Isaac Thomas
mil Miss Chrlstlno U Nelson failed of
re-election. Tlio election of ICdw.ard S
Abbott of Montpelier to take Mr.
Thomas's place Is the only vacancy
filled so far.
tho
and
the
the
EXPENSIVE FISHING.
tir.ivirtt nriiln. tm.l II, rt im.nfi.n..n
,.. ' ..,.1,1" ' i." .. V .. . ,.r,., .Miirph Fined I 4.(10 for 3.1 Short
I'lJ. 14 mij iiiiiik on" uueil ieamcii iiy
Americans through tlio world experiences ; Length Trout.
of the past two years, It Is that quiet and .Middlebury, May 17. Fred Murphy of
scientific work achieves lasultn rather Rlpton, arrested Monday night by
tlinn noise, Justlco Huglios appeals to George II. Chaffee, county llsli and game
be tho kind of man that tolls what ho Is
goin:; to do after h has donn II.
Cnn you prefer any other Joint to a trll.
fo the stores to-day? Lot tho ads per
buadc jou.
warden, for having in his possession
35 short length trout, was brought to
Middlebury and pleaded guilty. Mur
pby was lined $5 for ouch fish, making
$175. with $13.00 costs, ill all $134.00,
The amount wuu lmmcdlutcly paid
V. S. A. COMMENCEMENT.
Progrnm An no 11 110c it 1 11 lleKlu on June
11, Concluding; .In lie 1(1.
Randolph, May 17. The third annual
commencement of the ermont State
School of Agriculture at Randolph
Center lb unuouncid as follows;
Sunday, June 11. S:00 p. m bacca
laureate sermon, the Rev. Georgn Good
line, Congregational Church. Wednei.
day, June 14, 2:00 p. 111., class day ox.
oiclscs, campus; 7:00 p. in., tlio V, S. A
sing, campus; S.00 p. m., the Junior
prize debate, agricultural hall Thurs
day, Juno 15, s:00 a. ni . meeting of V.
A. S, society, 3:30 a. in., V. S. A. bat
talion, military drills, 10 ;30 a. m ten
uis tournament, 2.30 p. m., baseball
game, alumni vs. varsity; S-.Ofl p, ,,1.,
commencement exorcises, Congrega
tional Church. Friday, Juno 10, 10-.0O
a, in., alumni business meeting, chapel,
1:00 p. m., aluninl dinner, Mnplowoou;
S.00 p, m senior hall, .agricultural hall.
GF.RMAN TORPIOIK) BOAT Kl'.NK.
Copenhagen via Loudon, .May 1, 2:20 a.
in. A German torpedo boat lias been
sunk by a German mine off I'alsterbo,
Sweden, according to tlio Herlliigsko Tl
denile'H Malum correspondent but
onq inun of tho crew wero saved.
The Fcigii.-on family Is moving from
tho Lalletir house on Franklin street to
tlio Mary Gee house on Seymour rtreet
nnd FinnU J. Donahno and family, who
have occupied apailinetits on Seminary
street, will move to the house vacated
by the Fergusons -iFrank LaFountnln
of Chester lias taken a position lu town.
Mr. and Mis. S. W. Jones and Mr
and Mrs. Charles L. Stay of Brandon
havo returned home after visiting friends
In town for several day.". J. B. Carrigan,
county agricultural agent, has gone to
Plttsford for a week's stay with his
1 arents, Mr. nnd Mrs. J. 11. Carrigan.
Postmaster John H. Donnelly of Ver
gennes visited In town Saturday. Charles
J. Ilalpln, son of Michael llalpln of this
town, wbii for sevo'ii! ears h is boon In
the employ of Hie Remington Arms com
pany of Bridgeport, Conn., ha just been
promoted by a transfer from the depart
ment of costs to the department ni
production. Mr. Ilalpin Is both a drafts
man and an accountant nnd his abilities
In these two departments make him 11
valuable man for the llrm. Mrs. George
Sliodrlck Is In Plttsford to visit tho fam
ily of her son, A. F. Sliodrlck. The per
mit which the board of selectmen recent
ly granted to the Middlebury Marble
company for using a steam traitor from
the quairy en"t of village to tho ftolght
yards in Middlebury. for the purpose of
hauling blocks of marble between the
two places, has been revoked. Two of
the selectmen weie originally in favor of
granting the penult and (he othor was
opposed. The majority granted the per
mit, but one In fnwir Inspected tlio road
way and changed his mind. Matthew
Graham has returned from a business
trip in the 1101 thorn part of the State.
William McCue has returned to Hnlyok--,
Mass., having boon called bole bv the
death of John 11. Saigonl. Mr. and Mrs
Charles Feiguron, who were also colled
bete, have reternod to Now York M
1311 King, win, with her family -eslded
in Middle bury for many years, died at
her home In Rhorehnm enrly Saturday
morning. Mr. and Mrs. F. A. I3vans havo
moved from rooms In the Hattell block
to tho C. W. Ross bouse on Court
sheet. Mis. Damon Champagne has re
turned to Montreal. She was ac-om-panlid
by her mother, Mrs. I3dwam
Goodro. The Foitnightly elul met
with Mrs J. "I Stewart at her home on
Court street Wednesday afternoon. Mr.
mil Mi-i. George Hayward have movej
from the Allen house on Court street o
the rooms recently vacated by Mr. nn 1 '
Mrs. 1-3 vans in the Battell block. Miss
Bessie Dickson, who has spent the winter
with Mr. and Mrs. Marl O. Frost, lias 1
gone to Washington, D. C, to make her
homo.
Five candidates appeared Satur
day to take tho civil sen-Ice examina
tions for the positions of clerk
and carrier at tlio Midillobury postolllc.
George W. Mead of the local ofllce con
ducted the examinations. I'nion services
were held Sunday evening at tho Metho
dist Church and as there wore no services
at the Baptist and Congregational
Churches tlio house was filled to its ca
pacity. Bishop Theodore A. Henderson
of Chattanooga, Tenn., delivered a ser
mon and special music was rendered bv
tho choir. .Innies M. Walker and G. P.
Mack of Pioctiu- aro visiting in town.-
Mlss Ruth Claike has returned from Rut
land, where she has been on a visit to bet
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Clark.
Tlio following named men have boon ap
pointed to take charge of the work of
the Young Men's Christian association
until the appointment of a successor to
ex-Secretary L. A. Moihous; Ldwaril N.
Holmes, John W. Thomas, Allan T. Cal
houn, Arthur King, John 1-3. Weeks and
John A. Fletcher.-i.Mrs. Fiod Debour of
tiprlngfloltl, Mass., is In town to visit hr
parents, Mr. and Mis. Lewis Cotn. Mon
day, market day, eggs brought 20 to 22
cents nnd butter 21 to 27. William Footo
left Sunday night for Holyoke. Mass.,
having been called by the death of his
sister-in-law, Mrs. C. H. Rand, who died
very suddenly after an operation. Mrs.
A. C. Tabor, Mis. Rand's aunt, left Mon
day noon. Joseph Stapleton, who was
called hern by tho death of his uncle,
John II. Haigent, bus returned to Now
York city. Mr. and Mis. O. 13. Cidlson
Inne toturned from Vergennes, where
they have been visiting relatives for n
few days, Miss Minnlo 13. Dodge Is In
Proctor to visit her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Dodge. Mrs. Guldeon 13. Abbey
llil.- I I'LUtllt'll llwil. ...., .ii.ctu on., j
liaH boon to visit relatives for two weeks.
Dr. J. R. Renfleld Is moving from tlio
Allen liiniM' on Washington street to the
Dr. White house on Main street. Mrs,
H. S. Savory has moved from the Seeley
liouso on Court street to tho Howard
house on Seminary street.
A heavy rain storm accompanied by
thunder and fierce llghtnlni: passed over
this section early Tuesday morning. No
very great damage ha-, been reported
done by the lightning. A large elm tree
on Seymour street, a slioi t distance from
the Congrogatlonnl Church, was struck
und partially stripped of bark and
shivered Into slivers. The tree, however,
Is still standing. Street Commissioner
James McGllnchey has put on a forio of
men on Storrs avenue. Among other lm
ptoveuicnts they will build a cement side
walk from the Franklin street eorntr
tliiough to the South Main street corner
Miss Lillian Corson of Florence is visit
ing XI-h. Kthnii Allen. Mr. and Mis. II.
P. Clement, who have been heio to visit
Mr. Clement's father, W. 1-3. Clement,
havo leturncd to Fair Haven. Mr. and
Mrs. William Collins and two children
huvo returned from Brandon, where they
spoilt two weeks. Town Clerk Joseph M.
Burko -opoits that up to Monday night
UT dog licenses hud been Issued In this
town, which Is about the average for the
past sovcial years. Benjamin Fciitou,
wlio has boon vIMtlng In Rutland for a
few days, has loturned, Joseph A. Wil
son of Windsor, Conn., Is in town. Cards
have been received announcing the com.
Ing marriage of Miss Julia Plercon Re ;su
nf South Manchester, Conn., to Pncro G.
Potter, a foiiner lesldent of tills village,,
to lake place in tlio Congregational
chimb In South Miincliei-tei, Conn., l-'ri. I
day, .Mum nt live o'clock. Mis. John
Stoddaid has gone to Palmer, Mass., to'
visit I"'1' father. Ai thur C Tabor left
Tuesday for Holyoke. Mass., to Join ids
wife, who was called to that illy by
the den In of her niece, Mrs. C II Rand
Tho Ladies' Aid ooclety of thu Motho. I
dlst Church held n well attended mo-ting
at the home of Mrs. 13. II. .Martin T ic. -lay
afternoon, --The Hon. and Mrs. John
Y. Weeks huvo gone to Beiinlnston.
wlu.'iH ho will attend the annual Stud
k-onvention of the Congrogat'un.,1
Churches. The Lnbaioe society of th
Cungiegational Church hold a well at.
ti nihil all-day sewing meeting In th
vestry of the church Tuesday, At 12-10
a covered-dish dinner was served. The
nnntial meeting of the Auxiliary to tun
Y. M. C. A. will bo held next Monday -Prof,
Frank W. Cady has loturned from
Rutland, whoio lie lias been attendin"
the ntiarteily conference of the Purlin"-
ton district of the Methodist CIiuicIifs ar
Rutland.
Tho democratic caucus for tho town of
Middlebury was held nt the Addison
House nt SM0 Tuesday evening. Fred M
Footo was elected chairman and William
H Baldwin H'orctary. Delegates wero
elected from the floor to the State
convention ns follows: John Tllgcans,
A. W. Bradley, Fred M. Footo and James
Slnon; alternates, A. T. Calhoun, A. T
Stapleton, George Dougherty and Joseph
M. Burke. The old town committee was
!e-elected as follows: lYeil M. Footo,
William II. Baldwin, Patrick Dillon, John
lllggans, and A. T. Calhoun. The repub
lican caucus was held In the lower part
of the town hall at two o'clock Tuesnnv
levelling. K. I!. Coin wall was elected
I chairman and L. C. Russell secretary. The
old town committee was elected as fol
lows: John II, Stewart, Charles M. He
mele, Thomas K. Royee, Fred G. Brook
Ins, and E. 11. Cornwall. The. following
delegates were elected to go to the State
convention: W. M. Cady, Fred G. Brook
Ins, A. D. Wright, K. 1-3. Rosn and C. C.
Wells. They were given the power to
appoint their own alternates.
Mrs. E. 13. Tumor and Mrs. Michael
Grady have gone to Burlington to attend
the grand lodge of the Rebekah order of
tho 1. O. O. F. , which is in session tills
week. 13. A. Keeler has returned from
Brandon, where ho has been on a short
visit to his family There will bo a ball
game on Porter Held this afternoon at
i!:';o between tho Burlington high school
team and the tUlilillehury high school
team. Tho Young People's society of the
Baptist Church will give a supper
from live to eight o'clock Wednesday eve
nltig, which will bo followed by a social.
Tiio proceeds are for the benefit of the
society. The Rev. Roy R. Whlttimore of
tho Memorial Baptist Church will hold a
prayer and conference meeting in the
church parlors this evening News has
been received of tlio death of William
Kent at Granville, N. Y. Mr. Kent was
for many years a resident of Middlebury
nnd later for a short time lived In Bran
don, where the interment took place Tues
day. Miss Komi Horton, who has been
I visiting In town for a week, has returned
to Hortonvllic. Miss Gladys Frost has
j returned fiom Rutland after a few days
j at the home of her arents. Fred Moy-
riok, ono of Brldpor. h best known men,
had a severe shock of paralysis Wednes
day morning. Dr. F. C. Sanborn will
take Mrs. Georgo Glpson to the Mary
Fletcher hospital at Burlington to-day
to undergo an operation.
VERGENNES.
Tho comeneement honors of the
class of 1!U0, Vergennes high
school, are ,n follows: Helen 13.
'full, first valedictorian: Helen I..
Clark, salututorlati; Catherine O. Riv
ers, third, Everett Hawkins, fourth.
News has been received of the
death at Stamfoid, Conn, of Mrs.
Charlotte (Smith) Wlllard. widow
of the late Prof. 1-3. C. Wll
lard. She was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Rufus Smith of Addison.
After closing her cottage at the lake
jlist fall she spent several months with
her brother, S. Ezra Smith, who, with
I ids wife, went to Stamford to attend th3
funeral.
The funeral of LMtss Pauline Dubuke,
j tho 11-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Harvey Dubuke of Ferrlsburg, who died
I Thursday from spinal meningitis, follow-
' Ing typhoid fever, was hold at St Peter's 1
I Church Saturday morning. Tho Rev. L. !
I A. Vozln.-i oltlclated and the bearers wore I
, Alfred rilalr, Robert Stone, George
I Kvarts, Jr., and Howard I.ariow. Burial
was In St. Peter's cemetery. Among those
1 present from away was Mrs. Lawrence
Norris of Rutland. Daniel O'Brien end
son, Pntrick, of South Burlington, called
on friends here Saturday. Judge Frank
L. Fish is making Improvements on the
grounds at his residence on Main street.
Merritt It. Until left Saturday to visit
friends In Troy, N. Y., and before his 10
turn will attend the general confeicnce ot
tho Methodist Episcopal Church now in
session at Saratoga, N. Y. The Vergennes
Gun club have Installed a new l.eggctt
trap at the grounds near the Shetlield
Farms-Slawvnn-Deckor company's milk
plant and will use It for tho llrst time at
their shoot Friday afternoon, .May 19.
Charles M. Swift, who has been spending
tho winter In the South, has arrived at
the Swift summer home at Grosso Point.?,
Lnko Champlnln.-Mr. and Mrs. II. S.
Stono and Miss Dalton of New Haven
Mills weie in town Saturdaw Max Flsh
man visited his brother-in-law, Harry
Lazoravltz, of Middlebury Friday.
Tho girls of tlio Vergennes high school
gave the hoys of tlio high school a mas
querade patty In the school building Fri
day evening. Games wore played and re
freshments served. Miss May Hart ot
Addison Is tho guest of Mrs. F. W. Coo.
Hubert, son of Mr. and Mrs. Louis Mott
of this city, who went a few weeks ago
to Athnl, Mass., where he has n position,
is recovering from bronchial pneumonia
at a hospital In that place, and as soon as
able to travel, will return to tho homo of
his patents.
Harvey F. Beach attended tho
steward's meeting of Buillngton dis
trict at the Methodist Episcopal
Church at Burlington Monday. Min
Fiank Uncoil lias gone to Iobanon, N. II.,
to visit her daughter, Mrs. Robert Bruce
.M ss Martha Thorn has returned from
n two weeks' visit to Mr. and Mis. Eli
Palmer of Slielburne. Pay Director II.
G. Colby, I'. S, M., lias returned from
spending the winter In Huston and New
York. Judge F. W. Tuttlo went Monday
tr Bristol, where he held a session ot
tho pt abate court. M r. and Mrs. Myron
Flshinan of Bristol visited his sister,
Mis. Abiaham Cohen, Sunday -Henry
Plonks, William Austin, the Misses M.
A. Cro-s, llessle Fortler, llerrlka Rock
and Llln Monetlo attended a dunce at
Allen's hull, North Ferrlsburg, Monday
evening - A son, Donald Bacon, was re
5
IRELAND NEEDS
NEW GO!
UEN1
English Premier Reaches Con
clusion That the Old Form Has
Had Its DayWill Lay His
Views Rcfore Cabinet.
Premier's Visit Has Convinced
Him That the Ulsterites Will
Not Accept a Direct Proposal
Implying Home Rule, hut May
Consider Other Plans.
Dublin, May 17. Premier Asqulth has
reached tho conclusion from Impressions
gathered during his Irish visit that th.
old form of government in Ireland hai
had its day. j he Associated Pi ess learns
from sources In th" closest touch with
the premier that Mr. Asqullh's conversa
tions and conferences have oonvlm ed him
that the future government must be c n
ducted on an entirely different system.
Tile prime minister has taken care tt
learn the Ideas and views of many per
sons other than those in purely otllcial
circles, and thrso persons nave offere 1
greatly varied suggestions. None of thrse.
It is believed, could be ndopted in Its
entirety, but it Is thought they mliht
be welded together to form n proposal
to lay before the cabinet. The premier
himself does not know what form his
proliosal will eventually take, and, in
fact, it will probably be fully developed
only at the cablnr-t meeting.
His Belfast visit gave a good hint to
the premier that the Ulsterites would
not accept a direct proposal Implying
home rule. But it is believed that they
might be Induced to enter into a con
certed plan which could possibly be ar
ranged to meet their most serious ob
lectlons. Mr. Asqulth will visit Cork to-morrow
to gather further opinions. He has,
however, not arranged to see the poli
ticians. Most of those with whom be
will confer are of the literary and edu
cational classes.
CUTLER-WALKER WEDDING
C'hrlit Church, .Montpelier, Hie Scene ol
Ilrllllant Ceremony.
Montpelier, May 1". In Christ Epis
copal Church at eight o'clock this eve
ning Miss Reatrice Ellsworth Walker,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Moul
ton of Clarendon avenue, was married
to Richard 1 lytic Cutler, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Harry M. Cutler of Baldwin street,
Montpelier, the rector, the Rev. F.
Barnby Leach officiating.
Tho maid of honor was Miss Betty
Cutler, sister of the groom, and the
best man was Arno Ilhonke of Grand
Rapids, Mich., a senior at Dartmouth
College. Tho bride's othor attendants
wero the .Misses Katherino Kidder of
Woodstock, Katherino Kesslngor, and
Lydia Langdon of Vlncennes, Ind.. and
Marjorlo Burnham of Waterbury,
Conn. Tho ushers were Earl K. Wilson
of Rutland, William Costello and Elliot
Stiaw, Dartmouth College friends of the
groom, and Edward Cutler of Mont
pelier. A small reception to the bridal par
ty, near relatives of the family and a
few Immediate friends, was given at
the home of the bride's parents, Mr.
and Mrs, Moulton, following tho cero-
inonv.
Tlio bride wore ivory satin with a
court train, with Duchesse lace as Its
garniture, nnd orange blossoms. Tha
bride's bouquet was composed of 1111 es -
of-tho-valley. The maid of honor wors
pink silk with white lace, with Russell
roses, her gown being of a deep shade
of pink. Tho brlilesmnlds woro pain
pink and blue, with silk net made over
the satin. All wore picture hats to
match the gowns. The bridesmaids
carried Russell and Klllarney roses.
Tho interior of tho church was trim
med with festoons of laurel, palms and
fern", with Easter lilies predominating
among the flowers, hydrangeas being
placed about tho alter.
The groom, whoso father Is vice
president and treasurer of the Na
tional Life Insurance company, and
the bride, whose father Is actuary for
the same company, have been prom
Inont in Montpelier society for several
years. Mr. Cutler Is a gradate o!
Montpelier hlijh school and since hli
graduation from Dartmouth Colle-e In
1015 has boon located as special agent
for tlio National Life nt Baltimore,
Md., under th" supervision of A O.
Goodrich. Tho hrtde was graduated
from Rogers Hall, Lowell, Mass, threo
years ago next June aim nas resiiieu
In Montpelier practically all of her
life. Mr. ami Mrs. Cutler left last eve
nlng on a brief woildlng trip and will
be at home In Baltimore after June 1r
The guests at tho Moulton home were
the bridesmaids, classmates of tin
bride, Mrs. Arthur E. Lane of Mt. Ver
non, N. Y., Mr and Mrs. Goodrich ol
Baltimore, and Mrs. H. C. Martin ol
Waterbury, Cnnn.
(Continued on 1'iiicc tlio.)
MRS. MEAD ENTERTAINS.
Rutland, May 17. Mrs. John A. Mead,
wife of ex-Governor Mend, gavo a din
ner at The Berwick to-day for tho Ver
mont members of the National Society
of the Colonial Dames of America. She
Is president for this State. There arc
about 50 members of tho brunch bu(
they are scattered from the Atlantic
to the Pactlc and only IS wero able tc
be present at tho 10-courso dinner to
day. Colonial colors wero used In
decorating the tables and in tho menu
nnd the wnlls of Die private dining
room where the assemblage g-athered
wefo adorned with antique china.
