THE EAGLE
Gives the new today. The others
fire It tomorrow. . , .x
" TMC WEATHER.
Tonight probably showers. Fri&xf
generally fair. " ' '
AND PILOT
3
VOL XXX. NO. 119.
BRYAN, TEXAS, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
PRICE $4.00 PER ANNUM
Eagfe
0
Ammo-iTAiiAN
CEME
Pettijohns Bran FJlour
A delicious natural laxative. A scienti
fic health flour. Physicians recommend it,
LARGE CANS 25c. .
HARDY NEWTON
U. S. SOLDIER KILLED
Soldier Vas Crossing The Border When Fired
AUSTRIAN OFFENSIVE
ALONG ITALIAN FRONT
The Offensive Movement Is Gradually Extend'
ing Along The Whole Italian Front. The
Italians Fall Back For Strategic Purposes.
French Militarists Believe The Offensive
Will Fail. Gefflian-Americans Urged to
Obey Laws To Stop Complaints of Neutrality
Violations. Pope Appeals to Germany to
Stop Submarine War. French Win From
Germans at Several Points About Verdun.
(By Associated Praaa.1
Peril, May 18. The Austrian at-
on By Guard And Killed. Mexican General tack against the iunan front, in
. , TT ..r . , t. i . . Southern Tyrol le gradually extending
vuuuvu av vvuo jiuiiix twivi m. iivvj ui iuva.- ,ong the entire AuitP0.Ulsm front
families of the victims, the federal
department says.
I
War 8ummary.
(By Aihiclatcd Ptms.1
-.-.-. rnn I?Irf Ppriilir fpif"lfl Trnnn MrtVP Militarists believe great Austrian of-: London. May IS. The AuHtrlan of
1 fenslve It anticipated. The falling pensive on the Italian: front Is being
Reported. I back of the Italian advance ig g,. P"''ed vigorously and the Italians are ( Bryan w, nQ doubt them mayaa(i very mBteruiiy to the la-
i
An Old Word With a New Meaning.
Fresh, Staple and Fancy Groceries
No order so large that its details escape'our attention, or
so small that we do not appreciate.
PHONE
54
PHONE
78
" " ""jvr"Tr"""'VYiV
coMiuerr sector bailey
DAYS ARE HERE
COM! G TO TEXAS
Dates and Brief Resume of Com- Will Attend Democratic Convention
at San Antonio and May
Take Part.
mencement Exercises of Bryan's
Several Schools.
The students of the various schools I Washington, May 18. Former Sen.
and co'leffos of the city are very , ator Bailey will leave Washington to-
busily engaged now preparing for the (day for Texas, It being his Intention
examinations and closing exercises to attend the state convention at 6an
which will begin next week. There; Antonio. Although the senator de
are s number of the brainiest men of cllned to discuss his plans, It Is un
the state on the various programs to ' derstood be Trill be more than s mere
deliver addresses and the citizenship spectator. .His presence in the state
(Br Aaaoraie4 Prau I A, engineers, one of the few National1 cen.rai position
VI Piui T.vaa Maw 1SAn Atnni.' . . l
... . -. .-.I - pnxineennK comuanien. nan oeen or
ed as . strategic move. The Italian nKt
falling back to Southern Tyrol before!
In the Louvarone; Ab()Ut Verdun the French ousted the
1 selves of the opportunity
I them. .
to bear terest in the senatorial - campaign
j which, according to all reports reach-
lean aoldler. while crossing the S:rei tl pBre,)are for pfble service V"u ta be,"Ved t0 the 0ans from soTnam of Hill 30t,
trians' objective. They are expected i""s " ihmuuh. mc
WILL ADDRESS
boundary east of Juarez this morning.' on tie jjcxlcan border.
was shot and killed by a Mexican cus
toms guard. General Gavira, the Car-
ranza commander at Juarez, Informed,
General Kelt the American was In
toxlrated and first fired on too Mex
leans.
Mysterious Troop Movement.
(Br AMOrtat4 Ptms )
Columbus, N. M., May IS The Car
ranza garrison at AxcrnMon Is moving
south along the American roinmunl-
to attempt to smash their way
.through to Vincenza Plain. Frencn
Germans lost heavily in an attempt to
PEACE LEAGUEl
capture a redoubt at Avocourt. Other have Its commencement beginning
.operations at Verdun were confined next Sunday and the final closing will
militarists predict an Austrian failure. t0 nftavv artiPry firing.- Paris an-be the address of Dr. J. C. Hardy of
i ' . i i - - . t)n . EV. ... .. 1 r-..U -. A . M KM
nuunccs wirce rt?jiui-B ui ut'riuun bl rcwaio murst m. iu a. iu. uti
tacks at Hill 301 Two French aero-! Wednesday, May 24.
ln TexaOa.ht.'ashlngton, has been
( rather sadly lagging.''' Ills presence at
thft rnnvenllin l Aarl.ln tn AntlwAn
The Bryan Baptist Academy will ... ... . . . T,
' that gathering of democrats. He goes
Bryan Baptist Academy.
from here direct to San Antonio.
Urged to Obey Laws.
imv Ao.-mti pancj dropped SO bombs on the raU
Washington. May 18. Germany.' on the night of May 1?,
flhmnipti imhfi.aoilnp llnrnatrtrfr in.
Bernstnrff. in
structs all German consuls In the
1 1 nited States to admonish the Ger-
an.nKton. .May iv - rresmen, . man .Alncrlcan ctXMl, to 8cruI)ulolls,7
.Wilson has accepted an Invitation , ... . . . .. .
.... .... ... .. ' .... UUHtTTB nil Alllfl II nil laws. i :un ij
canon lino, onicniiiDij iu r.i unu. io speak eitner maay or Saturday.. .
.none in
X
reason has been aligned
movement
Engineers to Border.
(Br AMOclatM PrM.)
for
the f next week at the I-enue to Kn-
force I'eace, of which former Presi
dent Taft Is president. President
' Wilson recently told the anti-preparedness
committee that after the war
Calumet, Mich., May IS. Company DBi ended all nations might combine
1 '- a league to preserve peace with
s common policy of force.
I.
QUALITY
! SERVICE
and Sanitation
APPEAL TO YOU
Clvt US Your Grocery Busi
ness. COOPER & COLE
Phones 32 and 386.
alleged
tratlty.
crowd of the alumni la expected.
Tuesday will be commencement day.
The adilrrm will be delivered br Dr.
Following Is the complete program: Raylnond A1I(,n pienoa prMldent ot
Sunday. May 21. 11 a. m.-Com- tne Iowa 8tale college of Ames, Iowa.
( mencement sermon ny i;r. i. v. .Ma- The memben of cla
American Convicted. han- pa?,or . of ,he nr8t BaItl8t will read their theses, diplomas de
ter Aoocia. Prw.1 (1iurtn of ""ntsville. Texas. Sunday ,lvered mpda,s Md olher ho)or Md
TnHnn M.r 1H -JprmIah I.vnch i niM Bt 8 O'c,ook Uie nMl-ry er- . . awarded. Th- commence-
ill. I ii nil laws. i :i if ii. , ' i , i . i i i
. . ' . v.. i. i...-j v . t..k mon will be preached. I . . .in i. t.....
an priori to end the various -cw iun u t;uuii.iru uj m unu-1 ... uicuk ccn.n it vmog iwm.
. .. . ... .... ti.. ii ionaay nignt, m
violations or American ncu- tuun umnm. mi ii.uiui.auin ...
i the Irish A belllon. His sentence ;
I .
Pope Appeals to Germany.
fBr AuorUtrd Prma.l
1inilon, .May 18. Representations
will be made to Germany toy the Vatl
will be promulgated today.
French Steamer Sunk,
(By amocIu4 Pim.
London. May 18. The French
Monday night. May 22, at the opera! . . . h tt flna, bal.
nouse, itoi. Momer czar rearing, ai
rector of music, will give his recital.
Tuesday morning, May 23, at 10 s.
m., the class day exercises will be
The
Allen Academy,
exercises at Allen Academy
held, which wilt Include the essays j'1" Sunday when the com-
and class addresses from the graduat-
can with the view to Inducing Ger- steamer, Mlra, was sunk today but no Ing class.
In s celebration of the anniversary many t0 tDandon her submarine war-
ot the first Hague conference, repre
sentatives of the wo'iien's peace party
urged President Wilson to take im
mediate st-?ps to call a conference of
All neutral natlona In an effort to end
the European war. lie told them the
neutral countries were today celebrat
ing the first leaguo held In WX
details were obtained.
NOTICE.
Notice Is hereby given to all who
are delinquent In the payment of
atreet taxes, that on next Monday.
May 22, complaints will be filed and
warrants Issued for all who have not
paid. Dy paying now you can save
trouble and costs.
W. W. HARRIS.
Mayor ot Bryan.
fare. Foreign Secretary Grey an
nounced In the House of Commons.
He said he would be kept Informed
by the British minister at the Vati
can. Confers With Leaders.
F Associate Freaa.
Dublin, May 18. Premier Asqulth
haa gone to Cork, .where he la expect
ed to rdnfer with the nationalist lead
ers regarding a solution of the Irish
difficulties.
Germany Expresses Regret
ny AMorlat4 Pmal
Berne, Switzerland, May 18. The
German government has expressed re
gret that two Swiss citizens were
killed In the torpedoing ot the Sus
sex and haa promised to Idemnlfy the
PET BROWN LOS
T
MATCH IN UTAH
. SHEET MUSIC
For the accommodation of Bryan's Musical People, we
have put in a complete stock of sheet music. Our selection
is large and prices the same as offered in cities. You will now
have the advantage of selecting your music personally and
hearing it before making your selections.
We art glad to offer you this opportunity. Price 15c-Up
ANYTHING YOV WANT IN POPULAR MUSIC FOR IS cents
Foul Alleged After an Hour's Hard exercises.
Work In Ogden Arena
Wednesday.
Wednesday morning at 10 a. m., the
commencement address will be" de
livered by Dr. J. C. Hardy of Baylor
Female College of Belton. At this
hour the diplomas and medals will be
swarded.
Benediction,
j Friends of the Institution are cor
dlally Invited to attend all the above
Ogden, Utah. 'May 18. Jack Har-
A. A M. College.
The commencement exercises will
bnrtson. a local middleweight wresUer, . gn Sunday, June 11, when the Rev.
was given the decision Tuesday night; Coo. S. Sexton, pastor of ths First
over Elmer (Pet) Brown of Taylor. . Methodist Church of Shreveport. La..
Texas, claiming championship honors. ! Preach the commencement ser
on s foul sfter a grueling match last.non In the College audftortum.
Ing over an hour. Monday. June 12. Is the day set for
The men weighed In at S p. m.. the notmvcomlng and a very large
Brown tipping the beam at 155 pounds - -
and Herbert son at 157 1-4.
mencement sermon will be preached
at 11 a. m. In the Methodist Church
by Dr. W. P. Terry, head ot the
school of education of the Southern
Methodist University of Dallas. The
final exercises will be on Tuesday
evening, when the graduating exer
cises will be held. .
Villa Maria Academy.
The Villa Marls Academy will have v
Its closing exercises on the night ot
May 31, In the convent auditorium.
The program has not been completed
but will be announced Ister.
High School.
Superintendent W. C. Lswson an
nounced that the closing exercises ot
the Bryan High School will be beld
on Friday, June 1 The full program
ot exercises, together with the grad
uating class, will be announced later.
F,
mem
ISKTOH
I TO Mil
General George Harrison Elected to
Head United Confederate
Veterana.
Birmingham. Ala., May 18.-Wash
ington won the honor ot entertaining
the United Confederate Veterans In
1917 by a close vote at the closing
business session hers last night.
General George Harrison of Ala
bama wai elected commander In chlof
to succeed General Bennett P. Young
of Kentucky.
MMMMMMMWWMMi
FRESH GROCERIES
Usotho Phono
Satisfaction Guarantood
SANDERS BROS.
Phones 512.MM
f j .wuvu'.r sj-rr.'-'.'sns 'is.'ws.rrrrr.r.i'-i -
Mrs. Fred L. Perkins of Fort Worth
Is visiting In the city, the guest. ef
Mr. and Mrs. K. C. Harder.
It's the thing you don't want the
people are always willing to hand you.
mririqiu'-ri-ruv-n. "
FURNITURE!
'ROM THE KITCHEN TO THE PARLOR
PRICES THAT WILL PLEASE
Inspect Our Stock
ri. T. JAPES, FUBIHME
