4
.jiy./j
v*
I
Bi
IsiiM
&
'v"- «J ',
That "Peace hath her victories no
less renowned than war" is the theme
of an interesting program to be given
in the Normal school auditorium on
Thursday evening. This is the day
observed nationally as "Peace Day"
by the American School Peace league,
of which North Dakota has an active
branch.
The American School Peace league
has for its object "to direct the educa
tion of children so that their thoughts
and desires may be turned toward the
peaceful regulation of international
conduct, to the end that they may be
able to act on this conviction under
any circumstances that may arise."
At the meeting of the National Edu
cation association, held at Oakland,
Cal., in 1915, it was said: "Perhaps
the greatest task which lies ahead of
the school in all lands and countries
is that of bending its ener
gies toward the creation of a new or
der of international friendship, justice
qnd good-will." This typifies the spir
it of the American School Peace lea
gue.
owirk—
Why Every
Woman Should
Own at Least
Three of
Electric
The
:'v
1
Peace Day Program Is
the Week's Big Event
It is not necessarily a "peace at any
price propaganda," this program of the
American School Peace league, but it
believes sincerely, that when wars
are no longer idealized in school his
tories and that when the glories of
peace are given some place in the cur
riculum, much will have been accom
lished to give the next generation of
men and women a more constructive
attitude on the affairs of nations, and
when this is done there will be no
need of either a "preparedness" or an
"anti-preparedness" program."
A. G. Norberg, of Hastings, was a
visitor in Valley City on Tuesday and
was registered at the Hotel Rudolf.
RAIN IMMENSE VALUE
TO FARMING INTERESTS
The drenching rain that visited the
Northwest has been of great benefit to
farming. Sunday and Monday it came
down with the persistency of a tax col
lector, and the ground became thor
oughly soaked as a result. A couple
more such rains between this and July
Brand
House Dresses
The Adjustable Hem
By this device on all models of The
ELECTRIC Brand Dresses, you are
able to lengthen the skirt of the
dress by merely pulling a thread.
SEE THE DEMONSTRATION OF
THIS GREAT FEATURE AT OUR
STORE DURING ELECTRIC
BRAND HOUSE
WEEK
h.
wyw. *n
VOL. XXXVI—NO. 3. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
15 will assure a crop. According to
our leading farmers there was not
much damage done by the high winds
which preceded the rain. Frank San
ford, of Rogers, says there was only
50 acres on his farm that will have to
be reseeded, and that is probably about
the proportion of damage throughout
the county.
»w.
VALLEY CITV CHAUTAUQUA, JUNE 30 TO JULY 16
FOR INFORMATION, RESERVATION OF LOCATION AND TENT, WRITE TO A. E. PRIOR
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
A SPLENDID HABIT
A Savings Pass Book in this Bank makes
your boy feel like a man. It gives a feeling
of self-reliance, and self-reliance is one of the
principal attributes of character.
FORM THE HABIT
of depositing some portion of your income,
however small, and then keep it up with
regularity for it is regularity, system and
perseverance that is even more important
than the amount you save.
Small accounts are welcome at
Bank o! Valley City
up to
7^ V^-'
ill
Word has been received from C. N.
McGillivray, who was called some two
weeks ago to his old home in Ripley,
Ont., Can., by the illness of his father,
that death relieved the sufferings of
the older gentleman last Saturday aft
ernoon. Mr. McGillivray has many
friends here who learn with regret of
his bereavement.
ELECTRIC BRAND
HOUSE DRESS WEEK
Starting Monday, May 22, and continuing for the entire week, we will join the nation-widei
selling movement of America's Greatest Dollar's Worth of Dresses, The ELECTRIC BRAND
House Dresses. In nearly every city of the United States, this week will be devoted to the sale
of these dresses, which are marvelously adapted to many uses.
We will unfold to public view all the newest Summer models of these far-famed dresses, bewitching in style, superb
in fit and practical beyond measure. A style, a color and a pattern to please every taste and a size to fit every figure
irrespective of proportions.
For Household work in all its duties, these dresses are the most practical garment ever devised. For this
purpose we have simple models that are easily laundered at home.
For parlor, porch or street wear, these dresses are so delightfully dainty, so light and airy, stylish in every
line of their design and so faultlessly perfect in fitting, that they must be regarded as an absolute neccessity
to every woman who wants dainty Summer frocks.
For outing and vacation wear you ^cannot choose dresses that would give so great a measure of sound service.
Their style and quality are the kind that make them dresses that really attire you as prettily as they do serviceably.
For motoring they are without an equal. The swirling dust that is destructive to good clothes, vanishes from
these dresses by the simplest form of laundering.
For informal calls and evening wear during the Summer months, they afford comforting coolness that is in
itself a forceful factor in favor of these dresses, and their dressiness will attract open admiration.
For the sick-room they are cheery and sanitary. Their dainty appearance is a refreshing sight to your patient.
Compared to any other dresses that you could put to so many real uses, they are the most economical dresses
your money can buy.
They are made in a factory of perfect sanitation, by skilled adult seamstresses who are experts at their calling.
They contain patented adjustable features that totally eliminate ripping of seams and resewing to adapt them
to fit your figure perfectly. Sizes 34 to 56.
Equity Business Will
Be on Larger Scale
Thought Opera House
Block Was on Fire
During the high wind of Sunday a
number of bricks blew into a chimney
in the old opera house block and pret
ty effectually choked up the said chim
ney. Of course this was not discover
ed at the time or this story would nev
er have been written. It was not dis
covered until after the Metropolitan
bakery's oven was fired Tuesday morn
ing. Then the outpouring of the smoke
into the building brought the fire de
partment to the scene in short order.
After considerable excitement among
the tenants and anticipation of a big
fire among citizens, the cause of the
trouble was located.
Monday afternoon the members of
the Sorosis held a pleasant meeting at
the home of Mrs. John Tracy. The
program for the afternoon was in
charge of Miss Antoinette Sanderson
liissws^i
W"
ESTABLISHED 1«7t.
C. J. Lee, of this city, returned Mon
day evening from Fargo, where he at
tended a meeting of the stockholders
of the Equity Co-operative exchange.
It was voted at the meeting to In
crease the capital stock of the ex
change from $100,000 to $500,000. This
will permit the organization to handle
its increasing business on a larger
scale.
Other business was transacted, but
mostly of a routine nature.
Mr. Lee stated to the Times-Record
that 50 farmers' elevators in Montana
had joined the exchange, and likewise
many in Minnesota. The report on the
terminal elevator in St. Paul conveyed
the information that it would be fin
ished in time to handle the crop of
1916.
C. F. Luessen, of the Fulton meat
market, returned to the city on Tues
day morning from the Twin Cities,
where he has been spending the past
couple of days. Mr. Luessen went
down to St. Paul with a carload of corn
fed hogs for Luessen & Son.
MON
ADJUSTABLE
£RES5j
ADJUSTABLE)/.
INSTANTLY
Ekdric—
The Adjustable
Dresses
Dresses that make perfect fitting
possible for women of stout or oddly
proportioned figures. Buttoning two
buttons at the back of the dress
makes the entire adjustment.
SEE OUR MIDDIES
MIDDY DRESSES
AND WASH SKIRTS
I
