ElALD
11
U1M JL ii
VOLUME XIY.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
NUMBER 20
PITT
'prn
M A .TVIT
an
Jl i. l jQi-LVJi
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
Thirty homes destroyed In Knox
' Vllle by a fire which started in a mat
tress factory on the outskirts of the
city. ' -
Mother's Day was generally observed
over Tennessee Sunday, Gov. Rye is
suing a proclamation recommending
Its observance.
The Columbian Iron Works of Chat
tanooga has granted a nine-hour
workday with a wage, scale of 42
cents per hour. This is a reduction of
one hour per day.
The grand council of Tennessee,
Junior Order United American Me
chanics, held their twenty-second an
nual i convention In Columbia. .. Four
hundred were present . ..
The" twenty-ninth annual meeting of
the Woman' auxiliary of the Tennes
see diocese of the Episcopal church
mer at Chattanooga- with a large at
tendance from all over the state. -y
''"' Citizens of Clarksburg and commu
nity have perfected plans by which the
roads of that district . may be mater
ially , improved. . Many . volunteered
teams, plows and hands to do the re-'
quired work on the roads.
"Less liquor is being sold in Knox
ville 'than at any time In the history
of the city," in the opinion of Chief of
Police Haynes. Many arrest have re
cently been made and it is said that
. the campaign will be continued vigor
ously. ....
Only Mary ville and Blount county
money, it is believed, will be necessary
to rebuild" Carnegie hall, the boys dor
mitory recently destroyed at Mays
ville. A committee has been named to
make a whirlwind campaign through
the county for the purpose of raising
the fund. -., 7
Acting under the advice of his phy-
- slcian, Attorney-General B.. J. How
ard of Jackson, left for Hot Springs,
Ark., where he will rest for two weeks.
Hu C Anderson was -sworn in as at
torney-general yesterday in Howard's
place. Gen. Howard has suffered
breakdown from hard work.
The long-talked-of "white way" for
the public square at Pulaski, is about
to materialize. The town of Pulaski is
moving its poles and wires off the
square and officials of the telegraph
companies and the Telephone Company
. have been here to arrange for remov
ing their poles and wires, and some
of the "white way" fixtures have ar-
rived. . .- . ... ,-.; . V'-.S ,
. 'The Continental Coal Company,
owning large properties in Kentucky,
filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition
at Chattanooga. It is understood a reor
ganization is planned, liabilities are
lilted at about 13,000,000, with book
assets of about the same amount A
similar petition has been filed at Lex
Ington, Ky. -.
Business in all lines in East Ten
nessee has opened up In a way that is
Baking labor very ' scarce. Judging
from the advertising being, done, by
various companies, it looks as though
an organized effort will have to be
made to import labor from other
states according to dispatches from
.'Bristol. -'; : :
The new Jewish temple, erected at a
cost of $150,000. was dedicated at Mem-
' phis with appropriate services, - In
.. which eleven distinguished rabbis
. from all over the country participated.
Rabbi William Ftneshriber, successor
to the late Rabbi Max Samfleld, who
started Its construction, was the princi
-pal Speaker..- .:?: r
More than 8,500 farmers - of East
Tennessee and distinguished visitors
rrom otner Btates attenaea tne forty
third annual East Tennessee Farmers'
Convention- and Institute at Knoxville
The sessions were held at O P. Tem
pie hall, University of Tennessee. A
stock show and sale were, features of
the meeting.
Stuart Renfro, 40 years old, killed
his brother-in-law, Orb Salyers, 22
years old, at Elizabethton, Tenn., and
then - attempted to shoot i . Salyers'
brother, but his revolver failed to dis
charge. Renfro is a prosperous farmer,
and was said to have been intoxicated.
He escaped as the shooting occurred
before daylight. ' $,
The first carload of. strawberries
ever shipped from Lexington, where-a
Fruit;, Growers' . Association has been
doing active work for, twelve months
was sent north last week. The-fruit
and berry Industry bids fair to assume
the monster proportions in this county
that it has in Madison, Carroll, Gibson
' and adjoining counties. , "
The stockholders of the Chattanooga
. and Memphis, the ": old Memphis A
Charleston railroad, now the Memphis
division of the Southern, In session at
Chattanooga, elected Fairfax Harrison
president to nil the vacancy caused by
the death" of H. S. Chamberlain.. E. M.
Durham, general agent of the South
ern In Chattanooga, was added , to the
directory. '' -:, v '-V4'ii--"7
' The Jefferson Davis highway advo
cates met in Jackson and warmly ad
vocated the route to include Jackson
and on south to Holly Springs, Miss.
It was stated the distance via Jackson
Is a saving of fifty miles, Obion, Gib
son, Madison, Chester and McNairy
.counties in Tennessee were represent
ed at the conference, while a large del
egation from Mississippi was present
and much entnusUsm prevailed..
After twenty-two years of successful
operation in Tennessee,, the co-opera
tive farmers' insurance companies or
ganized during that period now have
in force more than $30,000,000 insur
ance, and the cum is Increasing at the
rate of $2,000,000 to J3.000.000 a yea
The largest co-npany . in the state
Sumner county has policies ampuntin
to $7,000,100. ,
With the passage of the $50,000 bond
issue at Knoxville, Mayor John E. Mc
Millan states that the commission will
lose no time in providing playground
for the children, and be expects to
have some of them ready for this sum
mer. The bonds carried, by the vote of
704 to 159.
The date for the forty-fifth annual
convention of the Grand Lodge,
Knights of Pythias, at Ovoca, has been
changed from June 14 to June 21, the
meeting having been postponed one
week on account of the date for the
Red path Chautauqua in Tullahom
conflicting with the original date set
for the Pythias meeting.
- The Tennessee Military Institute, at
Sweetwater, was partially destroyed by
fire, entailing , a damage of $20,000
covered by insurance. The origin is
unknown. The school will continue
Slight Injuries were received by Fire
Chief Young and Cadet Bruce. ' Most
of the furniture was saved. The cadets
loBt much of their belongings.
' Judge E. T. Sanford, in the Federal
Court at Nashville, allowed sixty days
for the taking of proof as to the claims
against the Tennessee Central Rail
road, and at the end of that time, un
less the second mortgage bondholders
shall, submit a satisfactory reorgaulza
tion plan, an order for the sale of the
railroad will be entered. .
Twenty-five contests took place at
the athletic, oratorical and musical
tournament held in Jackson and in
which various schools over ,' Western
Tennessee, participated. The schools
of Madison County and the city of
Jackson were the host for the enter
tainment, which was largely attended
It was opened by a monster parade.
' A mass meeting was held Sunday by
the Interchurch Federation of Chatta
nooga in the' Interest of world's peace
and the organization of a state league,
The Tennessee Federation of Worn
en's Clubs held thelt- annual meeting
in Chattanooga last "week. They were
greeted wijh a warm reception, and a
rare musical treat was given on the
opening evening. . . . ,:, ,
It was announced at Clarksvllle that
two of the big motion picture concerns
win have camera men there on May 18
and 19, when the Grand Conclave of
Tennessee, Knights Templar, will hold
their annual session in that city. The
Knights will have their drills at the
baseball park.. k ;, , ;
on a warrant sworn out by Ogle
Jewel, Mac Odum, 22, and Chester Wit
lard, 20, have been placed under arrest
at Woodbury on the charge of murder
ing young Oakley Jewel, who disap
peared suddenly over a month ago,
and whose body was found fourteen
days later la a thicket near Woodbury
The murdered boy and the two men ar
rested, are all connected with promi
nent and. well-to-do families.?
r A new-town Is being established la
the Seventh district .on -the . Birming
ham ft Northeastern- - railroad. - "-The
place will be known as Bishop, Tenn.,
and the division will be sold In lots.
under the direction oLthe. Bishop Real
Estate Auction company, of Dyers-
burg, Tenn. It is understood that all
trains will stop there daily. .
Alban Samuel, an old Nashville boy,
now serving with the regulars along
the Mexican border, writes .-. to his
grandmother, Mrs. Sarah - . Scriv
ner, of Nashville, and informs her that
life along the border is somewhat mo
notonous and that the whole command
would like to go forward. There is
only one other place more dismal to
the eye than the Mexican border and
that's right in the .center of the Sahara
desert, says Mr. Samuel. - -
Lawrence W. Faucett of Chattanoo
ga, recent winner of ' the Tennessee
Rhodes scholarship, has left for Eng
land to begin his studies. " Mr. Fau
cett is a graduate of the University of
the South, at Sewanee and has beenJ
for several months secretary of the
South Chattanooga Y. M. C. A. He goes
to England early to take up some spe
cial studies and will enter Oxford in
October,-: .
, A minute inspection of the condition
of victims of the fire at Knoxville,
wnen thirty homes burned and 200 per
sons, were left homeless, discloses the
fact that not one of the families has
an income of more than $12 per week,
though there are eight' "persons "in
some of the families Appeals at the
Stpugh tabernacle services in : Knox
ville brought pledges of furniture or
clothing; from, 300 persons and more
The Tennessee department of high
ways at Nashville has asked for bids
for 600,000 gallons, or about four train
loads, of bituminous material for sur
face treatment of macadam roads. The
bids will be received at the office of
the 'department at Nashville up to 11
o'clock, May 22, the material to be used
on the state highways In Knox, Ham
ilton, Davidson and Shelby counties.
This will doubtless be the largest sin
gle order ever given in the south for
road surface treatment material and
will treat about 100 miles of state high
ways in the four counties. The oils will
be paid for out of the state automobile
road fund belonging to' these counties
and will mark a; new era In road main
tenance in Tennessee.
The Lincoln County Breeders' asso
ciation, for breeding cattle, sheep and
hogs, was formed at Fayetteville by a
number of representative farmers
from all sections of Lincoln county.
This movement has been agitated for
some time by County Agricultural
Agent A. V. Beard and D. L. Conger,
who has nearFayetteville one of the
best stock farms in southern Middle
Tennessee. Prof. A. W. Murphy of the
agricultural department of the Univer
sity of Tennessee was present and
made a forceful address. -
Frightened by a large snake, one of
the women In a boat became frantic
and capsized the craft, resulting in the
drowning of the three occupants and
an attempted rescuer. - The tragedy
took place last Sunday in Reelfoot
Lake, near Hamburg. Those in the
boat who were drowned were, Mrs. F.
J. Bunn, Mrs. H. F. Keller and the two-year-old
son of L. S. Hazelgrove, all of
Dyersburg. George Hamilton saw the
boat capsize, and in an effort to save
one of the women, was drowned. All
of the bodies were recovered..
Exensive - preparations are being
made for the annual state convention
of the'Tennessee Sunday School Asso
ciation, which will be held in Lewis
burg June 6, 7 and 8. "A large number
of the most prominent Sunday school
workers In the state have accepted
places on the program. John L. Alex
ander of Chicago, superintendent of
the Rpronrtftrv rtlvlolnn nt ih Tni...
o..j o.i . . ..
. ........ w .u autc -
win T. r-n f n , , 0B:
will be present and Leon C. Palmer of
Montgomery, Ala., secretary of the
Alabama Sunday School Association,
will have an important place on the
program. ;
Recently William Wilson, who sells
tinware from Nashville, and Thomas
R. Marshall, of McKenzie, , who sells
harness in West Tennessee, regis
tered at a hotel in Bells, near Jack
" " "6 wiib,h6cu mo recuru 10 read
Woodrow Wilson and immediately the
son. A wag changed the record to read
ut iu ciuiieuieiu oyer me
news tnat the president and vice-pres-
Ident of the United States were at
the hotel, and the entire population
turned out to get a elimDse of the dig -
tinguished guests. Mr. William Wilson,
oi wasnviJie, is now generally recog-
..... ..www. v. .iiu.i, aa
goes about selling tinware. He is a
Jolly fellow and enjoys the Joke.
Vanderbilt men and women in Nash
ville,-students, former students and
faculty, completed the task they had
set themselves in the Vanderbilt en-
auwwem campaign wnen teams re
ported subscriptions for a grand total
of $103,957. There have been large sub
scriptions in Nashville campaigns, but
there has never been one of such mag
nitude from so small- it. body' ef . con
tributors. No effort was made to solicit
ths .people of the city generally, and
the entire -campaign was confined to
the few hundred Vanderbilt men there.
Another .remarkable feature of U
work ... was that; it; was done in foar
dsys the shortest; campaign ot the
sort on record In Nashville.
Announcement , has - been made by
Captain Gordons Johnson, of Chattan
ogayalde de camp to General Leonard
Wood, that a feature of the coming
southern eallitary encampment In June
will be the- special training of a com
pany of 150 engineers. Those announ
ced as eligible for, this special train
ing are. any -who have -previously at
tended a- military camp, been a mem
ber of the state militia, been connected
with any commercial concern 111 engt
neerlng work or a student of any col
lege in engineering work. Practical
modern military engineering work will
be taught this company.- .
lii:::...:::l!lllll!:::lilllllllillii:.. ..nlL 3-! llftlUHiim..:fii::T " I
DO
HIRTY thousand. American '- engineers are",
making a card index survey oi American in
dustry so that it may be prepared for 'its vita) -Dart
in defending 'the Counrrv. if need Comes :'
The past eighteen months have., taught us Jiert m
America what lack of industrial preparedness ha meant
to some, of the. countries now Hi, war. i ' These nations
-, had the hipi and they had the men; but when th hoof
struck, their factories, were not able to furnish the colors
': with arms and shells and powder.. Their factonea were .
not prepared. - And our factories are not prepared.--'- t ' .
T ,VV . "But 44 nof vnoigh'ie draw t mon'i. - In' the OtMttd 8at frt '"
great , ngjnetring Societies Civil, Mining, MechsmCid, Hkcirfcal
- and Chemical have pledged their lervicci to th'Goernmemio( lbs; .
" Unitetl' Slre, and sr slrrady working hand m band wt the JortF
meat id prepare induMiy for the national defenac. They receive no '
pay and will accept no pay. All the arek ia opportunity to arn their
counu-y," that ahe may have her induatriei mobilised foriMehae .
" All dementi of the nation's life .the manufacturera. thc buamcat '
men, and the workingnoen -ahould aupport . h patriotic and demo-"-;
cratic work of the engineer, and auist them .cheerfully when aaked
Then tn It M Utr netinat mturwut mg aiml mar . , ; ... t n ' - ,
'lr The ' Aaaopattd Advertiaing Cluba of the. World, repreenting
. all adveniaing interest! have offered their free and hearty service to the
President of the'.United States, inicloae co-operation with these fie
Engineering Societies, to the end tht the Country may know what the .
. 'Engineer are doing, The President has accepted the offer.1-The
Engineer have vrelcomed the cooperation. ; i i
. Thil advertisement, publithed without cost to the United States, ia
the firat in i narion-wide aeriei to call the country to the duty of cc
operating promptly and fully with the Engineers.
"NAVAL CONSULTING . BOARD OP THE UNITED STATES
. etriunani -
" Tstt AM SnrrtTv et Crm CtreiMsesj twt AHstr Soctstv a MecAseat fntmm ;
Ths Am smc v1 Ixmrni of Mimsc tmsnUaM Ti Amibjcaw hwmiri m su.scvmci KaaswatM -''
if
B nsiiaTir ubsch wiiiv . -
BMQlMIKKIrVO tOCIBTIM aTUILSINO a Wtlt TI STltBKT, NSW TO!
y
LADIES AID 80CIETY
Mrs J. C. Barnes was hostess Mond
ay afternoon of a delightful meeting
of the Ladies Aid Society at her beau
tiful home "Maplehurst". Ferns and
roses were attractively used . in the
decoration of the reception room. At
the close of the business session, a de--licious
three course menu "was served
by Misses Broshear and Craig.
The next meeting will be with Mrs.
Craig, at the. Parsonage, May 22 at
3 o'clock.
The Ladies of the Aid Society will
entertain with ' a Silver Tea at the
'Wayside' Tuesday, May 23 from 3 to
5, and from 8 to 10; the afternoon re
ception being especially for the older
people,-and the evening for the young
folks. . - 7, .
"A DAY IN FLOWERDOM"
A large and appreciative audience
enjoyed the presentation of the oper
etta "A Day in Flowerdom" at the City
School Auditorium last Saturday night
by the Cookeville School of Music. A
nice sum was realized to be applied
on the piano fund. : ,
The characters in the operetta rep
resented flowers, and 'it opened with
them preparing for the reception of
the Floral Queen in Rose Arbor. Af
ter the coronation of the Queen the
Flowers entertained her with songs,
drills and dances; then all joined in
a grand invitation to Spring. , 7-
FIELD MEETINGS
The following field meetings will be
held on . Tuesday, May 23rd. - .
Buffalo Valley, 7:30 A. Mvon farm
m w
oi J. D. xjvuny.
of J. a. Denny
Seventh District." 10:80 A. M., on
!farm of.w. T. Holman.
I Baneham. 1 P. M.. on farm of Leo
Matheney,
All farmers are requested to at
tend as Mr. H. D. Tate, of Knoxville,
will discuss "Corn Cultivation."
BLAIR HARRISON, County Agent
R. F ,D. CARRIERS TO MEET 7
- The 6th annual meeting of the Ru
ral Letter Carriers .of Putnam county
n. mt , rnnWvllla Mat Kith nt
T"Lm i'LVfT1 lL S?ii-.
Building and find out the place.
Every carrier in the county should
attend this meeting. Now. boys, we
iwant and expect every carrier in the
; county to meet with us on tne aDove
i date " aner attending our associ-
a""" ""-6"
g
j to refund to any new member all that
it has cost him for dues. . Now if ever,
we should put our shoulder to the
wheel and boost for a bigger and bet
ter Association. : The Association ha
done much good, not only to the car
riers, but to the service as well, fco
here is hoping to meet you all May 31
Yours Truly,
r u ; ,i W WALTER SMITH,. Sec,
" ' " ASHLAND CITY. R. 4 1
"iflmes are good here. 1 Planting corn
seems to be the order or the day.
Haskell Sullllvan turned two and
half acres of land, disc harrowed and
rolled it Saturday., He was working
H. D. Whitson. will soon get done
planting corn. '
Mrs. John Eller Is on the sick list.
Mrs. Pearly Sullivan has been poor
ly, but Is better now.
1 will ask for a. shower of birthday
cards May 28.. My address Is Dana
Sullivan, Ashland City, Tenn-.. R
Box 85. ' '
. v , .vi: '? i - ' .
T- VISITS HER CHILDREN
In a letter to the Herald, Mrs. IV B,
Garrison says: . "E went to Clarksvllle
to the I O O F Home May 5 to see mv
three children. I found them well and
thev, acted a if ihey"Wre at home
I am very well pleaded with the Home
but how . I missed little; wmard Clar
ence, my boy who got killed with the
live wire."
Do your trading id Cookeville where
you can get what you want .
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
The program for the Commence
ment exercises of Central High School
to take place in the auditorium of the
city school building next Monday eve
ning. May 22, is as follows-:
Invocation ...... Prof. S. B. Yeargan
Chorus .. . Class
Salutatory .-. Vallie Williams
Duet . . . .Coma Loftis and Kate Davis
Class Poem Bryan Cowden
Class History Herman Wassom
Class Prophesy . . Cam bell Hutcheson
Vocal Solo . .- Emily Sue Dow
Class Will ...... Anna Mary Cummins
Valedictory . Willard Wirt
Chorus , .... Class
Presentation of Diplomas.,.. Hon. S.
W. Sherrill
Benediction ,
The genior claBS is composed of
seven girls and seven boys Misses
Mary Cummins, Mildred Cooper, Em
ily Sue Dow, Kate Davis, Naomi En
sor. Coma Loftis and Vallie Williams;
Messrs. Ross Burton, Bryan Cowden
Campbell Hutcheson, Cooper , Loftis,
Victor McClain, Herman Wassom and
Willaxd Wirt.
The baccalaureate sermon will be
preached by Rev. H. B.. Blue, of Leba
non, Sunday morning at the , First
Presbyterian church.
TEACHER'S tXAMINATION
May 30 and 31 at City School Building
I am asked by the State Superinten
dent to announce that on the above
date all teachers who have failed on
any subject or subjects in the previous
examinations may have the opportun
ity of taking. these branches again. In
other words, all subjects, including the
Reading ' Circle, in the Elementary
course will be given on those two days
and anyone desiring to teach, who is
of the proper age may take any or all
of the subjects.
Examinations will be given in all
groups of the High School course as
heretofore arranged. In addition, a
new group of subjects has been ar
ranged for the benefit of those desir
ing to teach in two-year High schools,
which in as follows: Spelling, Gram
mar, Rhetoric, Arithmetic, Algebra.
General History and Biology." Those
taking this group will be licensed to
teach in the two-year high schools only
I would say to those expecting to
teach in this county that this is your
last chance to qualify before schools
begin in his county. I would be glad
for any of you to attend a , summer
school, but do not, depend on taking
the examination at the summer school
for you can not receive your certificate
in time to begin school here. Under
no. circumstances will I recommend
that a Temporary Certificate be issued
where there can be a teacher obtained
who is qualified.. . . , ;i
Yours very truly,
' .- J. M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt
UNITED STATES COURT r
The United States district court
opened for the - regular spring term
Monday morning. Judge E, T. Sanfard
presiding, and Marshal Jonas T. Amis,
District Attorney. Lee Douglass and
Clerk E. L. Doak looking after Uncle
Sam's business. ju' J, w
There is a heavy docket -of nearly
200 cases, including one murder case.
Most of them- will "be disposed of
rapidly and the court will not be in
session more than ten aays or two
weeks. ''' v- '7'
The juries, litigants and witnesses
make quite a crowd of visitors in the
Cty V l .U "
SUCCESSFUL DEMONSTRATION
The demonstration of an oil tractor
In farm work Was- held Tuesday and
Wednesday on the farm of Jere Whit
son, by A. M. Gibbe, representing the
International Harvester Col Several
attended the-demonstration and were
highly pleased with it. Various kinds
of nlows were used, also harrows.
The demonstration was so thorough
ly satisfactory that Messrs. D. and
Lit Terry, of Cookeville, Koute 1,
purchased the engine on the grounds.
Mr. Gibbs states that another demon
stration' will be given next Monday
on the farm of Messrs. Terry, for
the benefit of the farmers of that sec
tion. - ' " -' ; ' '
MONTEREY R. 3"
Dear Herald Readers: I will come
again so you all will 'not think I am
dead. - I enjoy your letters so much
I can't keep from scribbling down a
few. Unes.v Everybody has been busy
trying to get their corn planted. '-We
are having beautiful weather now
Mollie Ashburn I saw your letter.
How are you h all ? We are ' well. - I
stayed with Grandma last night and
she is' well as common. " She is still
getting birthday pennies. That beats
all I ever beard of. She has got near
seven hundred, and says it Is a great
pleasure to , know she has so many
good old, mends. , ; '
,Angeltne FOX, I got your letter ana
was glad to hear from you. ion
rwanled to know if Uncle Jonathan
Padgett was dead; He has been dead
for a long time. V'r
Ora Bilbrey, what hae become or
you since you got to De ' a nncn.
Would be glad l hear from Vou.' Tell
me how-you are liking your new home
Anzo Swallows go marrteq tne otn-
er Sunday and gays she like;; her new
home fine. --: :? .' . ". 'f "
Ida Miller went to Monterey the
other Saturday night and got married
and walked back. IguesB it was a
honey moon trip. - . -
McMillin Judd, nave you gone oac
to the army or got married. Thought
yon was going to give us a visit, r
Bessie KtgsDy or uay.tpn. way uun t
you write a letter to be printed.
Lavaca mi Drey.
. DO YOU KNOW THAT
Light promotes cleanliness ? ,
A clean mouth Is essential to good
health? ' ' - -
The U. S. Public Health Service
issues publications on" hygiene anl
sanitation for free distribution?
Ml. View Lodge No. 179 I O O F
held a splendid meeting on May 13,
1916, Jas. H. McCulley, N G. presiding
with a good attendance. Quite a lot
of routine business was disponed of.
uros. uracuora and York seem to
be improving slowly.
The 3rd degree was conferred uoon
four, applicants. Several communica
tions were read and ordered filed.
Bro. G. G. West writes from Rollins-
ville, Colorado on the top or the Rocky
mountains and says that he could
gather flowers with one hand and
snow with the other.
The election of officers for ' nert
term will be at our first meeting in
June, at which time there should be
a full attendance, every one should
be interested in the progress of the
Lodge. On examination of the books
it appear, that quite a number of bro
thers are more or less oelilnd with
their dues, ten brothers stand to be
dropped if they fail to 'come across'.
If the brothers could get the idta.
that it is just as easy and far safer
to keep dues paid in advance. .This
hustling at end of the term 'to save
one's scalp' Is very unpleasant.
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM :
The platform adopted by the recent
Republican State convention contains
the following planks regarding state'
matters : . ' . '
We. stand for honest elections,.
which is the very basis and foundation
of honest government. Every man
who is entitled to vote, under the law,
should have his vote counted as cast, '
and tor the candidate for whom he '
votes. Corrupt elections gives the
people corrupt officials.
We stand for the honest . enforce
ment of all laws. . '
We stand for economy in the ad
ministration of government of all its.
branches.
We stand for opposition to the ini- .
quitous fee system in all public ser
vice. . ..... .,.
We condemn the issuance of railway
passes to any and all persons not in
the legitimate service ot the railway. ,
We aeain recommend the enactment .
of a fellow-servants law and we pledge
otmelves ,to favor-other- progressive -
legislation beneficial to labor. ! '
We condemn lynching as the worst
of lawlessness and cowardice. No
more terrible crime can be conceived
than that of a mob which Interferes
with the orderly process of adminls- .
teting the laws. This is not only a
crime against the helpless victims, .
but If 1p an outran aealnat law and .
St t
VV" favor woman suffrage on a bas
is equal to that of men. '
we aeciare our opposition to tne
taking -of any. backward step in the
matter of temperance legislation.
We favor the retention on the stat
ute books of the four mile law and
the laws enacted for its enforcement,
written there as the result of more
than thirty years' struggle between
the people, of Tennessee and ' the
whisky powers. .
Realizing the ' importance of good
roads in the 'development of the ru
ral - communities and . their close re
lation to better schools, .better chur
ches, the advancement of agriculture
and better and cheaper marketing of
farm products, we favor advanced leg-'
(elation for the improvement of the-'
public highways of the state, a general .
uuu uuiifiiu luau. law niiu a mw u-ri,- .,
. ., . .... .. ... . . m .
- ...II.MH 1 . ... A Inn. hA4
ter sateguaramg tne expenditure, or
road funds of the state and the va
rious counties, and pledge our support
to the betterment of this important
part of our government We favor.,
liberal, appropriation for the cause of
advanced education,, the public, sch- ,
ools, normal schools and of the state's -university.
. -
We especially endorse and commend
the . administration of Ben. W. Hoo
per as governor of Tennesseeee. .
. They denounced the Wilson admin-
Istration but not a word against Gov. .
Rye. ; ',. " '. . ' )
:;7 LYNCH, NEB. .
Greetings! from 'Mose' and 'Susie"
to all the P. H. A. friends. -
Helllo, Pauline, how . are you all ?
Why can't you write us a few lines, t
jus a note if no, more.
Thanks, cousin Lulah tor tne dox. -
of flowers.
Grandma, how are your Why don't
you answer the letter Cousin Dillard ,
and I wrote you?
Health is very "good in 'this part.
Had two more dust storms the 7th,
and 9th-which was fierce. r
Cloudy today, the 12th. Looks like :
rain and you can guess Cousin Dillard .
and I wouldn't care if we would get
a good rain to settle the dust. Wild ;
flowers" in bloom green grass, and J.
trees, the wild fruit trees in bloom, or ; '
BK, SCOOt, UJVni V UCMK . MWtuuiiD aws- ar
look so well as the hot winds have 7
just about cooked the most of them.
Farmers are planting corn, cousin '.
Dillard Is planting ' those half mile "
rows now and he don't plant by nana
either, he rides all the time and drives ' j
4 mules, OI he's not a missourian but
came 'from Tennessee, - that's very
close to Missouri, though. Ha goes- , 7
mite and a half from home and can
plant from eight to ten acres a dayr'.'
j Mrs. Dahuff, you must be visiting
4ahU baa loff Aftf I n . tfio
SVH W VP UUU W . DCC iciwio - s'
Herald from you. - ' - "
Miss S D P Of Lebanon, would like -to
hear from you: also Mrs. Pearl ;
C, of Ga. - .
Congratulations, to Laura - K. and
Pancle M., for the nice long letters ,
they' write.
.! Greetings to Mr. and Mrs. u. vv. .
jaquess
Hello, J. O. Rector, we miss your .
Herald letters, write again. '
Dunken, N. M. I've been expectfng-.
a letter from you. '
Cousin Orvllle, how arc you?
Mr. Dillard Peek, the writer and Iff ,
father were In town Saturday.
Hillery Clinton of near Highland -was
in town Saturday.
Lola Lee West.
