tte Historical Society
'Mexico Missouri Message
On your label is date;
Renew before It is too lute.
VOLUME 17.
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1010.
NUMBER 23.
FALLS FROM
WAGON: KILLED
Little Eugene Vanlandiogham Meets
Sudden Death Vehicle Crushes
His Shoulder1.
COUNTY HOARD OK
EQUALIZATION ACTS.
Convened Monday mid Increased
As.HC.HNnionts 011 Triple Penalties
Figures in One Case Go From
9500 to $75,000.
Ernest Vaulandiugham, who lives
three miles northwest of Mollno, and
his little son, Eugene, went to Santa
Ke Tuesday for a load of lumber and
cement. About three o'clock in the
afternoon they started for home. As
they were going down a hill a half
mile west of Santa Fe, at the old
Picnic Grounds, the wagon on one
side went into a deep rut, and then
struck a stump and the father, and
son were both thrown from the load,
a wheel of the vehicle passing over
Eugene's shoulder, crushing it, and
killing him instantly.
The parents are overwhelmed with
sorrow by the sad happening. They
have one other child, less than a year
old. The mother was Miss Lillie Peak,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Peak,
who lately moved from Mexico to the
Vanlaudingham home.
Little Eugene was put away yester
day afternoon, funeral at 3:30 at the
Christian church in Santa Fe. The
members of the stricken home have
the deepest sympathy of the entire
community.
The County Board of Equalization
convened Monday. The Board is com
posed of the following: County
Judges Alex Carter, C. C. Bledsoe and
W. Beagles; County Surveyor U. S.
McKlnney and County Assessor,
T. J. Kelso.
Two important complaints were
heard from Vandalia. The parties had
ttorneys. Prosecuting Attorney A. C.
Whitson represented the State. The
Board assessed Jeff McCune $75,000
and Guy McCune $22,040, on triple
penalty, as the Board holds that prop
er retirns were not duly made to the
Assessor.
An assessment was raised from
500 to $75,000 recently.
Roy Creasey of SC. Louis is here on
a visit to his father, Mason Creasey.
TO CELEBRATE.
The Mexico Catholic church is ar
ranging a picnic for the Fourth of
July. . It will be held at the Fail
Grounds. Everybody invited. Public
speaking and other attractions.
HAZEL LETTER.
.
H. Hofreighter & Son sold 35 head
of 200 lb hogs at $9.25 to Bob Mundy.
Wilbur Shoup had a mare and colt
killed , by lightning last Saturday
.night.
U. S. Gorin was here tills week look
ing after his political fences.
Mrs. Nagel'a little son is on the
sick list. '
Oats and meadows fine since the
rain.
Andrew Cauthorn has just built
a new porch to his house.
R. P. Brown was on the National
Market last week with 3 loads of dan
dy cattle, one load, 21 head, topped
the market for the week. Weight
1441 pounds, price, $9.95. 34 head
weighed 1380 and went to $9.25. The
entire shipment sold to Morris & Co.
They were on full feed 5 months. Mr.
Brown 1b one of the best feeders in
the county. He has 58 more good ones
that will be ready soon. These he sold
put on a little over 2 lbs a day dur
ing the five months feed.
J. At Drown 1m a, candidate for
Constable of Salt River Townsliip. See
his authorized announcement In the
Message this week.
John Y. McLean after a visit to his
mother here, Mrs. E. A. Ellis, has
returned to his home at Kirk, Colo
rado. Mr. McLean used to be County
Assessor of Audrain.
The County Court warns all pool
room proprietors that they must obey
the law. Their places must not be
come gambling dens.
Underwear for the Family.
THE ENTERPRISE STORE.
Prof. C. C. Rozelle is one of the
best thinkers in town; thinks solid,
interesting things. He sends In the
comments in another column headed
"Bricklayers and Preachers." He
does not claim- authorship, but
"them's his sentiments" and ther're
ours, too.
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $
$ Mexico Savings Bank $
$ 44th Year in Businesp . $
$ Capital Stock, $150,000 $
$ W. W. FRY. President $
$ J. R. JESSE, Cashier. $
I'KVOIt AUA1N
IS CHOSEN.
WINDSTORM GIVES SCARE
NEAR MOL1NO.
Suei'iiilci.dent of The Mexico
Schools, Has Lately Been Taking
Work in Washington University,
New York.
The Mexico School Board was in
session Monday night and the impor
tant action was the selection again of
I'rof. Herbert Pryor as superintend
ent of the schools for the ensuing
year.
Mr. Pryor has been in the Washing
ton University, New York several
months taking advanced work. He is
expected home this. week. He has
been away at his uwn request and
without salary. His equipment now
should enable him to push the Mex
ico schools further and further to
the front.
An Exciting Time Near Vandalia
Also Nobody Hurt and But Little
Damage Done.
11. R. Arnold, Jr., has resigned as
a Member of the Mexico Eight Mile
Kond District. His business prevented
his giving his duties as a member the
attention it required. He was the man
for the place and we regret that he
felt thnt he must give up the work.
j Judge Alex Carter & Sort sold a
1 bunch of lambs on the St. Louis
J market last week at $10.35.
PAINT
Now is the Time to Paint
Your Home
SAVE MONEY
if
by using our strictly
PURE
READY-MIXED PAINTS
EVERY GALLON GUARANTEED
Sold by us 30 Years
We Sell American Field Fence
LaCrosse Lumber Co.
The weather was too warm Sat
urday and it brought a reaction. A
rainfall followed and north of Mexico
the wind got unpleasantly high A
house on the J. P. Albright place
west of Molino, was unroofed and
other small buildings blown down.
George Miller had some property
wrecked by the wind. One of E. E.
Pierce's barns was unroofed. Taylor
Dowell lost 200 chickens and his hen
houses torn down. Many trees suf
fered damage.
The storm jumped across the coun
try to near Vandalia. Gardens and
fruit treeB were whipped clean and
outbuildings overturned and win
dows broken out. In the locality
north of Vandalia. Corn and oats
were greatly damaged.
WOODCRAFT STOIES
FOR LITTLE CHILDREN
FROM REV. HOOK.
Hunter. Mo., May 15, 1916. Ed
itor Message: We are still concerned
over the war in Europe. To me it
seems that it will not close in years.
But now, as a nation, we ought to
shake up Mexico. Wilson, our presi
dent, is getting more criticism than I
enjoy. He is cool headed and wise. I
feel that he will again be president.
If he doesn't get the nomination at
the St. Louis Convention I hope
Champ Clark will.
Don't know my length of days, but
it is to be hoped I live to see Champ
President of the United States. If not
now, then four years hence.
Blessings to Mexico, the home that
is dear to me. Sincerely, W. H. Hook.
CATHOLIC SPECIAL MISSION.
A mission is in progress at the
Mexico Catholic church. Fathers Sei
oert and Hoelling of St. Louis are in
charge of the services.
PRAIRIE LEA.
Mrs. T. E. Hook visited at the D.
L. Rogers home from Thursday till
Sunday. Her husband came out for
the week end.
Mrs. John GeiBel is slowly improv
ing, after her very serious illness.
Will Frazer is helping Ferdle
Witchie, who is not in good health.
A little daughter came Sunday to
the home of Geo. Schremp and wife.
Mr. Johnson who purchased the
Crawford land is building a house.
The Klotz family entertained
friends from the Lea Sunday.
Some persons from the Lea at
tended the dance at Mr. Hesterberg's
Monday night.
Seventh Story.
By L. Roy Ferris.
Doesn't the woods smell sweet after a rain, when the
sun comes out? It just looks like the wild grape vine
tries to see how far it can send its perfume. And the
honey bee, oh, my, how she does come for a load of honey,
and she carries large loads, too, not like some boys carry
ing wood, but heaps it up and doesn t sit down to rest un
til dinner time. Well, this is just the way it was in the
woods near the camp when Brother Rabbit stuck his head
out from underneath the bunch of grass and looked at the
clouds to see if the rain were over. Brother Terrapin,
who doesn't mind the rain at all, came paddling along the
path, splashing thru the pools of water caused by the rain.
"1 say, Bunny Rabbit, have you heard the news?
Bunny wiggled his ears like he always does when he
is about to hear something. Before Bunny could answer
Blue Jay, who keeps up with all the news, flew past all
excited- All Bunny heard was:
"It serves him right, it serves-him right.''
"What is wrong?" asked Bunny. "Looks like every
body is going some place-"
' Mere comes Whippoorwill, who rarely ever visits in
the daytime. Old Dr. Owl got out of bed after he had
been up all night long and had reached home just as the
Red Squirrel family were starting out to eat their elm
bud breakfast.
"Come with me," whispered Brother Terrapin, I want
to show you something. Do you remember what the camp
boy said when he found someone had stolen the bacon?"
"Let me see, let me see,'' replied Bunny as he wiggled
his nose and whiskers. "I believe he said he was going
to make a figure four."
"And that is just what he did," says Terrapin. "And
I wish you could see who is in it."
Thev tiptoed along the path, that is, I mean Ter-
lapin did, for Bunny Rabbit always hops along unless he
is in a hurry or frightened at something, and every now
and then he had to wait until Terrapin could catch up.
As Mrs. O'possum went by she giggled and said,
"I see something red down by the big sycamore tree."
When Terrapin and Bunny reached the tree there
they were all gathered around something that Terrapin
called a trap, and whom should they see but Brother Fox
between the slats looking so mean and ashamed? His
eautiful tail was sticking thru one crack and his nose
thru the other.
"Why, bless my heart," said Brother Coon, "what are
you doing here?''
And all Brother Fox could do was to hang his head.
Brother Rabbit whispered to Brother Terrapin, "I would
feel safer if they would keep him there forever and ever
and ever"
Says:
A Well Known Judge
Of Probate
Property accumulated by years of toil often shrinks with amazing
rapidity in the hands of incompetent Administrators arid the beneficent pro
visions of wills are in many cases defeated.
The modern Trust Company is rapidly displacing the personal executor
or administrator, and the advantages it offers should be serionsly considered
by the man who would protect the interests of his heirs
CONSULT OUR OFFICERS ABOUT YOUR ESTATE.
North Missouri Trust Company
Nbrth Side Square,
Mexico, Missouri,
BRICKLAYERS AND PREACHERS.
Wre yield to nobody in respect for the cloth, but we
can't help smiling when we read that a New Jersey
preacher, after very great reluctance, has at last recon
ciled himself to the marriage of his daughter with a brick
layer, and given the happy daughter his blessing. Why so
much reluctance? we ask when we are informed that the
young bricklayer is a very promising person who is
working his way thru an engineering course and is des
tined to be somebody some day. Indeed what can oe
the objection to an honest young bricklayer as such,
without regard to potentialities.
With equal reason might not a bricklayer object to
his daughter's marrying a preacher? As between preach
ers and bricklayers, those who occupy the pulpit and those
who build the edifice (Jesus himself was a carpenter),and
as between preachers' daughters and brickayers' daugh
ters, where does the superiority lie and is it one to
which an humble follower of the meek and lowly Naz
arene may lay claim?
True a bricklayer never composed a sermen. No
more did a preacher ever lay a brick, or do a stroke in his
life. The point that mainly impresses us, however, is
the vast amount of superciliousness and snobbery in a
plain democracy. It is a striking characteristic of a plain
democracy that there are no humble men in it, and upon
the plane of social or political equality each man is better
than his fellows Going back "to the marriage of the
preacher's daughter to the bricklayer love is the only
leveler of caste; and love in a broader sense is the only
salvation of a democracy
COLORED BOY DROWNED.
Frank Sorrel, colored, SO years old,
was swimming in a pond near Mar-
tinsburg Sunday and took cramps
and was drowned.
Born, the 16th Inst., to Mr. and
Mrs. Will Bradley, southwest of Mex
ico, a son.
BREAKS ABM.
Rosa Null son of Mr. Ren Null.
In cranking an auto Monday suffered
a broken arm.
William P. SetUe et Cecil, Monroe
County, visited hit parents, W. F.
Settle and wife, of Mexico, returning
home today.
P P v 5 $ - 9 ) 9 9
I
