v ...
(SairoMr
VOL XXI II. NO Jg
1 1 mnrnniAfJT Mi iti i pi 'kBWEi
iimfUE- Luy iiii i uu n nyi 11 ieb hi i
KB am mm I I mMM Bi Mill N I 1 U H .-I I
mm u ar - - - - . - m m m mmm mmw ... m . b B
RACE
AGAR B
States that Mr. Jackson has not the time to run for
Legislature and do his other political offices
justice. Is in the race to stay.
judge Hamilton G. E wart on his re-again carries the district. Mr. Jackson
turn from a professional trip to Ral- Will in all probability he appointed U.
eh verified every word printed last !S Marshal of the western district,
V hv the Hustler in the storv parrying a salary of $5,000 per annum.
veeK bj tne tiusuer m tne story jr0 accept he must reslgn office
of the sensational turn made in ,of member of the legislature if he
th0 local Republican legislative should he elected to that position. This
race. e -"iy cuuurmea tne
statement that he expects torun in
the November election, but in a signed
interview printed below he gives some
Interesting facts relative to the with
drawal of Messrs. Valentine and Free
man as well as some of the principal
measures he expects to support if elect
ed in November. '
i Judge Ewart also endeavors to show
an inconsistency in running Brownlow
Jackson for the legislature, giving asSst price ever known
'his reason that Mr. Jackson has al
ready more duties than he can possibly
fill and at the same time do justice to
the campaign of Congressman Britt
which the Judge says w ill take hard
work and constant attention to over
come a re-united Democratic vote
throughout the Tenth district in the
coming November election.
In a signed circular sent throughout
the county Judge Ewart urges his Re
publican friends not to commit them
selves by voting in the primary as far
as the legislative ticket is concerned
by simply not puttng a cross mark op
posite the candidate printed on such
ballot. He says that by November the?
will be able to determine to support
him or the man named in the primary.
The Judge ha3 the following to say in.
reference to his candidacy to repre
sent Henderson ccunty in the General:
al Assembly of 1917 to-be voted for at
the November election: :. "
Yes, I shall certainly be a candidate
for the legislature at the Noy ember
election. I say the November. lection '
for I shall not entsr the June primary
- re Ihe ea&dir ine."
I am impelled to make this fight for
the following -Teasons: s Some weeks
rgo it was generally understood that
Messrs. Valentine and Freeman would
be the only Republican candidates in
the June primary. No other Republi
can was disposed to "butt in" and it
was generally understood that they
would fight it out. Suddenly both
withdrew, Mr. Valentine giving his
reasons therefor in the Times of the
10th inst, and Mr." Freeman openly
suiting that he had withdrawn condi
tioned that Mr. Valentine withdrew,
and that Brownlow Jackson should run
a; the candidate of the party in the
June primary. Prior to the withdraV
a: of either of these gentleman I am re
liably informed that petitions had been
prepared in a certain office in Hender
sonville asking that both withdraw in
favor of B. Jackson. An at fern pt wa3
made to circulate the petition, but they
met Avith little' response, as
the ad-
herents of both Valentine and Freeman
refused t0 sign them. These petitions
suddenly disappeared. The Republi
cans cf this county resent the act of a
fev men in thus selecting a candidate
to be voted for without any consulta
tion with them. The primary ig closed
to all nominations May 20th. As -1
have refused to enter it for the rea
son stated it is apparent "that Mr.
J&ckson will be declared by the county
election board the only candidate
whose name can appear on the official
Lr llot at the November election and In
accordance with the primary law he
cannot be voted for in the primaries.
So that Mr. Jackson cannot claim that
ne is the choice of the Republicans of.
the county, but only the declared nom
inee by the county election board, two
of whom will vote against him and
ne for him. Of course he has the
Samp rio-Vit t- nn Vnt'Dmhor oc T
h?ve but n3 more right. I have th3 !
mghest personal regard for Mr. Jack-
on. He hact alwava hppn anfl i Rtill !
f warm friend of mine, but I say frank
ly that th irraot mainpltw nf thfl Pd.
P'-hlicans of this county do not approve
f the methods which appear to have
been aflnntPrt KrirxAncr Mm ni
Neither do they think that Mr Jackson
should be a candhlate "at this time
For four veLf?e was postmaster of
thiscitv yHe to now MresideSt Sf
the PiHVnnVvSi? 2SvP"
f the City Board of Commissioners a .honor are to be presented and dinner
member of the Board of Road Trustees will-be served on the grounds.
and Chairman of the Republican Con- - . - an l- ii unu
gressional Executive Committee ' this ( Saturday May .-20 Jelng alegal holl
district. , These ..various offices' ought , day the banka will he-closed.
is said by way, of "explanatfoh of is !
oandidacy-for theUgisUtufe, that It
was necessary 'to", preserve harmbny in
thi i trA
nc , ..... -
tt&y well ask ho w the latter's candidacy .
s to be promoted - by his chairman"-
leaving his post of duty to make a
campaign for the' legislature lh ' Hen-
aerson county- Mr. Britt'a majority in:
914 wa8 less, than 900 majority. With
a united Democracy in the district this
ear. a close and bitter fight may be
xpected, and every moment of Mr.
Jackson's time will be demanded. He
cannot give that time, if it is, to be de-.
vted to his own campaign In Hender
son County. Moreover following, past
Precedents if the Republicans win the
i residency in November and Mr. Britt
wuu leave mis county unrepresented
till another election was held.
If elected I stand committed to the
following policies;
Material changes .in the State pri
mary law, or absolute exemption of
Henderson County for that law. "
Legislation to encourage the raising
of . sheep in the county and increasev
ing the school funds. Mutton is now'
worth 30 cents per pound and wool the
Any, law
making it possible for Henderson
county to raise 20,000 sheep i worth
ail the laws passed by the General As?
sembly the past 25 years. " -
Republican representation on the
School Board of the county.
Better road laws.
A more equitable division of taxes
as between labor and .capital for the
maintenance of the public road system
of the. State.
A reasonable increase in the salaries
of county officials.
Working the State' convicts on the
public roads of the State. I shall
stand or fall by this platform. I have
nothing to conceal for them.
My opponents whoever they are must
be equally frank with the. voters. .
I shall insist that they express them
seivesjipon tnese quesuons, eiixier iur
, . .HI M
or against them. During the summer
months, as opportunity "offer I shall
discuss these questions with my con
stituents. ' f . ' .
I am very sincerely yours.
The mysterious Mr. Baffi'i will be ex
posed Thursday - night at the Queen
Theater. Crowds of Hendersonville
people have been watching the local
scenes and faces in the homefolks and
baby show which began Monday and
asts through Thursday night when Mr.
Baffles will be exposed. J
Besides the local faces and scenes the
regular program is being shown at
this well known play house.
Mr. Baffles - is a local business man.
The winner gets a barrel of flour, man-
itractured by the Newport Mill company
of Newport, Tenn.
FRUITLAND NEWS.
(Special to The Hustler.)
The boy scouts of Fruitland went on
la hike to Bear Wallow last Friday and
returned Saturday. Mr. A. R. Galli
more being their leader.
There will be a children's day at the
Methodist church next Sunday, Rev. J.
H Green will preach at 11 o'clock.,
Everybody is welcome.
Miss Mary Lydia Prestwood spent
Sunday with Misses Ifie and Belle
Justus. .
. Mrs. John ,Fistier, Mrs. :V. H. Justus,
Miss Sophie Edney, Will Gilli&m and
W. H. Rogers motored to Black Moun
tain last Wednesday.
The M. E. church is progressing
nicely in Sunday school and our so
ciety. Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Gilbert Mr. and
Mrs. R. M. Rogers visited Mr. Meredith
Justus of Edney ville Sunday.. '
Miss Ifie Justus spent Monday with
Miss Daisy Justus of Edneyville
I T P. Rogers who has been on the sick
;Mst" some time is speedily recovering,
. If you want some good times come to
Frultiand
TO ENTERTAIN, VETERANS.
ThA Daughters of the U. D. C. will
entertain the Confederate Veterans of
the county on Friday June. 2, at tne
tme of Dr; and Mrs.'J S: Brown. The
Veterans are requested to assemble , at
11 o'clock. - The feature of the day will
,be' - ta address by Mrs. Ula Ripley
Barnwell. A number of crosses of
. .vl. v xw
, . ,BP!PAK;?EW
"JT-7 1 ' -or,r.H
' Tt ifcps The Hustler a, staunch
.i. ananrn : K.&
publicannews. ; T ; v ;
The HusUer gives more news
1 of ALL parties than any other
paper hereabouts. J '. ; ' -
" Republicans who want to keep
informed of the movements with
their own party will do the wise
thing by taking The Hustler dur
ing the campaign and all the
time, in fact; " V .V.
' This paper's treatment of the
iinva.flht in last week's
issue and in this is evidence of -
the correctness of its claim. . -
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C. THVRAYpMP&J8, 1916
m
';vXv
4 x
fix? .f"4;
V
HON. SOL: GALLERT, OF
Col. Sol GaUert, of Rutherford, was
in Hendersonville on Tuesday and, in
response to a question by a Hustler
representative as to how he wa"s getting
along in his canvass for the Democratic
Congressional nomination, said:
"The support am receiving all over
the district is exceedingly gratifying
tajne. I .only started out on my cair-
rftss. nf - ? fhA fflfitrict last wppI? Afifi
. v .
everywhere I liave been my reception
has been, cordial and the strongest,
support has been assured me. ' x
iWhile I am earnestly seeking the
nomination, the" Democrats are realiz-;' tion by the, legislature are some assur.
jlng;that they need me fully as much jahces that.V if I -were the reprefeenta
lasI. desire the nomination- .the cam-tive from : this district- the tenth dls-
ocratic candidate must be a man who
can earn the support 6t the party. With
all due respect to the other gentlemen
who are aspiring to thte nomination,
none but myself can give .the people
any assurance of an aggressive cam
paign for election.
"Although I am not holding office.
and have been holding none, I have
done more for this congressional dis-
trict than the present congressman,
and if I can do this without office how
TTINS RENOWN FOR HEALTH WORK
Hontclair, New Jersey, Wins Distinc
tion Through Its Live Health
'. Department.
During the year'lSlSMontclaif, New
Jersey, with a population of 25.000, was
raid to have the livest health depart
ment of any town her. size' in the UniU
ed States. The annual report of this
city's health department for the past
year shows a number of progressive
activities along health lines which have
been instrumental in winning for
Montclair a splendid record of health
work.
One of the first things mentioned as
receiving special . attention ' from - the
board was tne examination oi servants
for tuberculosis and venereal diseases.
For the payment of a fee of $3, any em
ployer could protect herself and family
by having her servant examined. If
the servant passed the examination, a
certificate of health was given him or
her.
Again, all. bakeries, food shops,
dairies and ice-cream dealers were
I rated according to cleanliness and
j other sanitary measure employed. AH
.'employes of bakeries were required to
j pass a thorough phy&ical examination
every three months. All milk sold in
this city from from tuberculin tested
imthnt MrnitiiifJ-haii the Wron-1
trolled Tnilk supply of all American
cities, furthermore, that her baby death
.rate is about one naif tne average rate
of that for this country. , .
Anoiher important point is that
"Montclair - controls her fly situation,
.The report says: "During the latter
,parf of the summer there was practi-
cally no fly-breeding in town and with
the continued - co-operation - with, the
stable owners there should be very few
flies In town "next summer." Mont
clair directed- her efforts :in: suppress
ing: the fly- against--the fly'sr breeding
place -mainly- the stables, - which has
controlled the situation. ' v. n ; r
HORSE SnOE. CTRTES. V
v (Special to ;The Hustler.) . r
Horse Sfcoe, ;May r 17. "Rev. : Turner
Bird of 'Etdwah preached an interest-
ing sermon - at the Methodist church
Sunday ' We would be glad to have
.him come again., -
J Miss Laura Brown Is visiting rela
tives in "Marlon. ' ; r"-
Clifford Purviss of Pisgah Forest
school visited his parents at this place
tlast week. . ' ' '
I Mrs. D. N. Davenport and Mrs. W. E.
Brown spent Monday in Brevard. :
Bert Johnson of Asheville. viaited
his mother, Mrs. Carrie Johnson la3t
mm;
WW:
RUTHERF0 RDTON,' N. C
. . ;
much more could the people expect
from 'me if elected to congress. . --
;'The distrlet heeds me at the pres
ent time," tboV as. much as the Demo
cratic, party because the $75,000,000
Road Bill having passed cohgress,.ap
propriating over $1,700,000 for roads in
Nmh '.Carolina.! could do more than
anyone else to obtain for. this district
its just share of that appropriation.
My. well v known interest in good roads
and the fact that 1 wrote the law un-
der which the State built the Hickory
Nut -Gap i-oad and. procured its adop-
MrGallert also spoke very encour,
agingljr over the Support he was re-
ceiving -all over the district, -Helhave an abundance, Mr. Patton "said.
speaks about his "Candidacy with an
enthusiasm and energy which drives
conviction to those who hear him set
forth his course. If he is nominated
the party will have a candidate abund-
; antly endowed with the spirit of De
mocracy to make a forceful campaign,
j Mr. Gallert's announcement appears
on another page of this paper.
m ieiiig
JOiAYllGHT
A mass meeting of the voters of Hen
dersonville has been called for Monday
night at the court house. ...
A very important matter will be placT
ad before the citizens, of the city for
their consideration. It is said that ac
tion mustbe taken at once or it will
jbe too late,
SIT AND WALK ERECT
-TO ENJOY GOOD HEALTH.
The way a man carries himself has
so much to do with his health that cor
rect posture is now being emphasized
as one of .the principal guideposts to
good health. It is now generally be
lieved that a person who cultivates a
cramped, unnatural slouching position
cannot maintain a natural, healthful
body. There will likely be brought to
bear some undue pressure in some' part
tne body that will hinder the organs
in performing their natural functions
and if persisted in will cause deformi
ty. .-. :.' ,.. ": : , ' i
Life long deformities and chronic
maladies have been known to develop
from "incorrect posture Ithat became a
habit In childhood. Round-and stoop
ed shoulders and lateral curvature of
the - spine ; and deformities largely
brought about by sitting,, standing or
walking incorrectly. . Such slouching
attitudes as sprawling in a chairr or
sittine on the- backbone rather than
sittintr uhrirfit.-or -hunchine the arms i
and shoulders, wlen sitting, at a desk,
or-resting the weight on one leg .while
standing rither than' on two; or; slumps
injef- while walking . which means :to
carry rounded shoulder -withVthe head
thrust 'for ward; the stomach thrust out
and the: arms hanging loosely Jn front
of the bodyare the main errors of pos
ture and the main cause of deformi
ties. , v:..
JTo sit stand and walk, erect isto
have corrept posture. To do this is to
sit well back in the chair and give sup
port to th small of the back. . If at a
desk or table sit-close, and high enough
for the arms tb rest on the desk withr
out pushing up the shoulders.? -r When
it Is necessary to lean over a deskk in
cline .the body by bending at the hips
rather than at the waist. V . - ". ".
1.00
: -
BIG BOOSTER NEXT WEEK.
A - A
. This week and the. first -of next
will see the final campaign and '
the final spurt in getting in all
the copy and cuts for The Hust-
ler's biggest and best booster edi-
tion that has ever come from; its -.
presses. .-. V..... , .-''A
There will be less hot air and. .
more real facts: than in the usual
issue of this chaarcter. . , .
v.- The aim is to produce a paper-
in mapa7inp atvlA wfiir-Vi -07-111;"
be preserved in the homes of the
people and looked at by future
generations as an index of the',
progress, prosperity and aspira-1
tions of the people of thig sec-
tion in the year 1916.
J We are stressing the HUMAN
ELEMENT for, in the last
analysis, it is the PEOPLE of a
community .that lift it up and
forward, or" let it sink down and
back. . v
-We have here the climate, thev
scenery and the soil the basic
elements with which to . build-a
civilization that should make the
"world take notice.
THIS IS OUR LAST CALL
1
)
i
FOR COPT. . Jfext week the is
sue comes out. '
;
'
f!R1?T?lVTVTT.T.Ti" rnmVTV TT A.Vi : '
' SIXTEEN ROAD FORCES.
i Road Supervisor Patton Asheville Tis
J itor, Tells of South Carolina's
$900,000 Road Bond Issue;
''There are xteen different road
forces at work in Greenville county,"
said P. F. Patton in the Asheville Cit
izen, who enjoys the distinction of
filling' the office of road supervisor in
two different states, "and the work is
proceeding! in every direction all over
the: county." '
Mr. Patton is the man who gave Hen
derson county her fine system of sand-
clay roads. He is the supervisor" of
j that , county and also of -Greenville,
;South Carolina, county. He was ' in
Asheville yesterday to explain to the
board of county commissioners the
merits of a new type of road construe :
tion. "New in the south," v said Mr.
Patton, "but used , successfully for;
many yeaxs- m-Europe,:inJCanada:and
throughout : thr Inth
It is a top dressing for worn mac
adam, of which Buncombe seems, to
It' can beput down for sixty, cents a
square yard, as against about $1.24 for '
'the commonly used dressing. The
Imethod is in use, in Greenville county
and Mr. Patton was anxious that the
commissioners send 'a committee down
there to investigate it. - . '
"Greenville county has a bond issue
of $900,000 for good roads," said Mr.
Patton. "It was more, but they- tobk
$50,000 for the fund for. a new court iPoor one. The money rewards of the
house. We are improving all the roads jfarmer. may be smaller but they are
from the city line out. We have al- imore certain and there are other corn
ready graded 125 miles and surfaced ipensations. - The smaller investments
forty miles. In addition we have ire- jand the lesser risks in farming are en
surfaced three miles with this new top titled to and receive sniallerTewards
dressing, and. find it very satisfactory
""Many of the roads in Greenville
county we are surfacing with a top
soil, which is a natural mixture of
sand and clay. This we get from the i not entirely due to a lacKfcopportun
field along the roads, and it-makes a .ty. A man will not attempt toprac
perfect sand-clay road. The sand-clay -tice medicine .without a medical college
roads of Henderson county) will im
prove as time goes on. The sand will
get more thoroughly mixed with the
clay and there will continually be hew
coats of sand applied until the right
proportions have been obtained. When
that is done there will be no better
toads anywhere thn in Henderson
county. Henderson ' now has two,
miles of -improved highway to Bun
combe county's one. which is a fact not
generally known. If the county com
missioners of Buncombe should adopt
this new method of top, dressing the
old and worn macadam, the work could
all be done in twelve months by the 20
men on the chain gang. The principle
of: this new method, which is new to
the south only, is based on the princi
ple of using melted sand, and has been
successful wherever it has been used.""
LADY BURNED.
Mrs. W. L. Pettv of East Flat Roc,
was Dainfullv .but not dangerously
i burned at herhome one day last week
while heating linseed oil to stain floor
when the .oil boiled over and exploded.
Her clothing caught fire and her. face
fend hands were badly burned, one hand
being horribly burned.
Mothers' Day Observed. -,
Mothers Day was observed at th
First Baptist Sunday "school, Sunday
morning, at which tim all members of
fie Sunday school and; visitors were In
vited to bring, their mothers. The or-
der of exercises was arranged by the
Philatheas who. pinned a. white rose.on
eyerydne present."" ' 'r'X" - - --.The
program was as; follows:
Hymn-How Firm, a" Foundation.-;.
Recitatlbn--Welcome, Louise ' Mat
thews : ., . ".;v; ,
Duo Love Your Mother "Today Mrs.
J. F. Brooks and Miss Mamie Briggs.
T Recitation The . White - Carnation
Helen Brooks. ' ";
Song Tell. Mother , I'll : be There.
, Address Mr. Gross; :. : " .
T Quartet God Bless My Boy rMessrs,
Roy. Bennett VBrooks, - McCrary- and
Bfrber. :. . :-- :' ' ' -V
Reading The Invalid Mother, Mrs.
RNi .Pratt.' : ;. ; i v . '- f - v '
- JSong Our Country's CallJ ,;-Vv
'Benediction R sv. K. -W. Cawthon. "
PER YEAR, IN APYANCE
DO FARMERS WORK HARDER AND
BET LESS THAN CITX DWELLERS I
City Work is Hard, Honrs, Are Lon,
and the Rewards Are Often Poor;
Farmers Get Ont of .Their Work
What They Put Into It. -
A reader asks: "Why is it that the
farmer who produces the necessities
of life toils the hardest, gets small
money compensation anV a limited ed-
ueation, vtoiile his city kinsman who
sells the-frivilous things v(with which
the people" could do without) grows
rich and has advantages denied the
rural dweller " . ,
Many would be inclined to question'
the accuracy cf these statements, but
there is no denying that the average
man who stays on the farm and also .
the one who leaves it, at least at the .
time he leaves it, think that they are
true. , . :' . :
It is probably true. that the farmer,
"toils the hardest," physically,;but it is
doubtful if he works longer hours or if
his labor is any harder than that' of
the -city man. The man who toils 10 ;
to .14 hours a day in a store or an office
where he ' keeps " clean .or is r able to -
wpar imaA .'-clothfifi "s thone'hf tn fiavoi
I O - C5 " ' -V w ...
easier as judged by its effects on his
health or its influence' on the length of L';
his days ohrearth? " Candidly, we think. ;
the city man toils as hard as the man
in the' country. , ' ;
That: the farmer gets less money
for his" labor, that he gets or handles
less money, is unquestionably true,' if
we compare him with the' doctor, the
lawyer, the merchant or T the skilled j
workman, . in the trades ; but does he
put as much into his work?: Does he
put a3 much education and capital into
his business, and if not is he entitled
to as much in return?
The average farmer does not put -much
training and knowledge iaJi s.. j -work
as dpes the doctor or lawyer, nor '
as much capital as the merchant or
manufacturer. .
The vast majority of farmers ,'proba-
tly over 90 per tent of them, .receive
lib education except in the ' rural '
.schools; and receive no education re
lating to their own business or life
work. The lawyers and the doctors,
oh the other hand" receive a high '
school education, many of them a col
lege" education, and then a course of
frpm hree'p..ne-Tearsf;--professionft
al dutien?yr trainingv
. I Submit "that if these be the facts,' -and
they are, then the doctors. . law- ,
yers, . and others who put more into
their work are entitled to receive more
for, it.'.. I also beileve that when those
who till the soil put as much agricul-.
tural trainingand knowledge into their
jwork as the doctors and the lawyers
Put metucai and legal knowledge into
jtneirs the compensations as a whole
will be as great
- The average doctor and lawyer bare
ly make a living and frequently a very
i when successful, as the losses, are
i smaller in failures.
Our correspondentsays the farmer
receives a limited education. As a
general rule this is true, but this is
education, but the average .farmer
thinks an agricultural college educa
tion -unnecessary, and many of them
actually think it a waste of time, if net
actually a. disadvantage. How many
boys who expect to farm think it nec
essary to go to college or in any other
way learn the fact3 and principles mn-.
der lying agricultural operations ; How
many parents think it as necessary
that the son who 4s to farm should re
ceive as good an agricultural educa-.
tion as the one who is to be a doctor
should receive a medical education-?
The chief difference in the education
received is due to the different views
regarding its necessity or advantages.
Any farm boy in this country can get
an education if he really wants it, and
he can get an agricltural education
easier and at less cost than he can-a
medical, engineering or other profes
sional education.
The-difference between a cow thai
nroduces 150 pounds of butter in a
year and one that produces 500 pounds
is 350. pounds of dairy knowledge. The ;
oneis anaineducatcd cow, and the other
an educated.-The difference between
20 bushels of corn or- 180 pounds of.
lint cotton per acre 'and 40 bushel of
corn or 360 pounds of line cotton per
acres is 100 per cent of agricultural.
knowledge and three id five years time.
The one is an ignorant acre or an acre
cultivated' in ignorance; while the other
Is an educated acre or one.yielding the.
profits of agricultural knowledge ; .
This Is a world of wonderfully well-
balanced comnensatio'ns. No one'jfieo-
tion or business has all. the aonrantages
nor any other all the disadvantages. ,
if conditions were as pur correspon
dent, state there-wmld no farmers.
We get out of. any'buslhess' and, out of
life about what we 4;ive to it, and if the
tiller of the soil gets less for his labor
it is pretty, certain that there are other
compensations or he puts less into It--Progressive"
Farmer. '
- San AatonioTex.; May 14. General
Funs'ton has ordered ; an investigation
of the fires last night at Fort Bliss.. -Army
" officers express, the opinion
that an investigation will disclose that
the fires ;ould not have been' of acci
dental origin.- It: was; said there was -no
attempt on the ammunition; house.
