THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 55.
BARRE, VKltMONT, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 191G.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GERMAN FORT
ON HILL NO. 304
TAKENBYSTORM
Important French Gain on
the Northeast Slope Was
Accomplished Only After
Severe Fighting, Accord
ing to the Official State
ment .Issued in Pans
To-day
GERMAN TRENCHES
ON HILL 287 RAIDED
Auehonvillers, Cabaret Rouge, 8ouche,
Calonne, Cuinchy, tlic Hohemsollern ro
doubt and Y'pres. There has been inter
mittent shelling at other points along the
front.
"Last night raiding parties of Seaforth
Highlander entered German trenches
north of Roclineourt. Five Germans were
killed in their trencher. Three dugouts
full of Germans were bombed, one being
blown up. Our casualties were slight.
The whole of the raiding parties got back
to our trenches. '
"Fighting continued among the craters
of mines we blew up on the 15th on the
V imv ridge, I
"Yesterday fine weather favored aerial
activity and 27 combats in the air took
place. An Albatross was attacked and 'I'll MKKT lirjALrjKo
driven down, wrecked, near i.me. Anotn-
er was driven down north of Vitry in a
damaged condition. A third, attacked by
one of our scouts, was seen to turn up
side down near the ground.
One of our reconnaissance machines
failed to return. It was seen to land un
der control in hostile territory. One of
our scout aeroplanes also is missing. A
great deal of successful aeriwl pho
tographic work was accomplished.
CONCILIATING
IRISH PEOPLE
ACCEPTS ARMY BILL.
Senate
Agreed to Conference
Without Roll Call.
Report
ISSUE WARNING
TOOBSERVELAW
After Having
HOUSE ABANDONED
Undermined
By
Germany Sends a Notice to
All German Citizens of
United States
Washington, D. C, May IS. The Sen
ate- without roll call agreed last night to
trie conference) report on the oriny recog
nition bill.' The bill provides for a recii
lar army of 2U,0 officers and men at
In Pursuance of That Plan. peace tn'nth nd approximately 200,-
Premier AsOUith Went National Guard of 457,000 officers and
i ... 1 .., , .,.: . ,u
. . illicit a, iimAiuiiiiii BLiniuill,
10 LOTK Discussion of the conference renort ctn
braced a denunciation of. Great Britain
for execution of the -Irish revolutionists.
attacks on the administration's Mexican
policy, renewed assaults on the National JP A PT V TWO VPARQ
Guard aa a political force, and variou A -EttLi 1 1WU I XjVXvo
OF NATIONALISTS criti('i8m8 of the i0 for Kvern" -AFTER WAR STARTED
mi-Mi, iiaraie inHiiuiBciuring piani.
Senator Fall asserted that General
Pershing with the 14,000 troops at hit
oommand, could march on to Mexico City
Been
Flood.
Portland, Me., May 18. Flood condi
tions due to the unusual rainfall of the
last 24 hours prevailed in southern
Maine lut night interrupting traffic on
steam and electric railroads and causing
other damage to valuable stocks in cel
lars, amounting to many mousanun.
Railroads and highway bridge were un
dermined and sections of roadbeds washed
away.
Kight acres in the village of Yarmouth
were covered with water and passengers
by trolley to Brunswick were transferred
acros the water in boats. The library
was completely surrounded by water.
The. business section of KennebunK was
completely flooded and Mill street was
turned into a small river. The damage
there is estimated at $20,000.
All trolley dines entering this city and
BIG STRIDES BY
ODDFELLOWS
Grand Lodge of Vermont Is.
Reported in Good ,
Condition
7,600 MEMBERS
NOW ENROLLED
After the Conferences, He taking every town with little trouble if Von Bernstorff Tells Them Lewiston were. wholly or partly. tied p jf g. Roy of West Barner
W11 r - unhampered by orders from , r nrtf it r. by washouts. The electric car service J
Will Return to washing ...d that no w of thm to Respect U. b. and steam railroad service except by way Was Elected Grand
Dublin
ITALIAN TOWNS
BOMBARDED BY
Dublin, via London. May 18. Premier
Washington and that 90 per cent of the
Mexican people would welcome such ac
tion. He also declared that represent
Uvea of General Carranwi were negotiat
ing with foreign governments against the
Inited Mates and that this government
would be forced to fight foreign forces
to Respect U. S.
Neutrality
The Attacking Party Killed Official Dispatch Tells of Great Activity
nr r-mtnrprl the fW.imants Austrian Air Forces But that No
of the Positions French
Aeroplanes Dropped More
Shells on the Railway Sta- ud
tion at Metz
Washington, D. C, May 18. Germany,
Asquith left this morning for Cork, where on Mexican , if t did not soon do its through Ambassador Count Von Bern-
AEROPLANES er,tedtot1,ld dMve?1 Jj"" f"U d,,t-v. t0 the PP16 01 Mctiw Bnd fJle -torff, has instructed all the German con-
V .... 1U a'rterThich hTwU return "to Dut Wah of IdaJi'o renewing his U, in Vn SUt"
Premier Asquith has reached the con-
of the Grand Trunk between this city
and Lewislon was completely tied up.
The total precipitation for the 24
hours up to 8 o'clock last night was 4.09
inches. This has been exceeded but once
in the history of the local bureau, 5.28
inches in (September of 1806. '
Passengers from Portland on the
Worcester & Nashua division of the Bos
ton 4, Maine were transferred from Port-
German citizens, in consequence of cases anj to Gorhain by electrics and were
Was Elected Grand
Master
IAt.fjllr nn t'lMi BMf)itul rinacl aa a nn
litical force, declared that it would prove which have occurred lately, that it ii UKtnw cuxwn oy nanucur.
Burlington, May 18. The annual
session of the grand lodg " .ependent
Order of Odd Fellows, was ,7 ,d here to
day with a record attendance. The total
membership is 7,600 and there are 76
lodge. During to-day's exercises (18 can
nittates
Military Results Were Accomplished.
Rome, via Tan's, May 18. An official
.m,. iu.uavv.. ........ . uiuniv ncic MllLiaieu. anu tl. li. MOV fir
elusion from impressions gathered during t0 more detrimental to the United their duty scrupulously to observe Amer- A two and one-half story houee on the East Barnet wa elected grand master,
his Irish visit that the old form of gov- than an invadim? armv. He ar- i.... -ru. ... ; . Mank of the Presumpscot river was un- E. A. Spear of Woodstock deputy crand
ernment in Irclan.fhaa had its day. The ralned Great Briuin fnr t, Iri.h -x- . - dermined ,nd abandoned. At (jprham master, and L. C. Grant of .Burlington
' " i am tr-T n nn viriAiit a rron v n ur nni ni i x i j t in. Ki-niT i a -
Associated Press learns from sources in PPirtion rWlarimr ther hrl Wn no effort t0 en1 various alleged violations ol two 1rjdges over Little river and Brandy treasurer.
the closest touch with the premier thatl.i v,i in iDtu.,;. American neutrality. brook were carried away. Kev. ur,
dispatch from iUlian headquarters at Mr. Asquith'e conversations and confer- tha r.-rr,- ., u,,..- I u w. c.;,l .t thn fierman embassy
Udine yesterday reiwrts tiiat Austrian ences have convinced him that the future v, j ? i.: c f in.t..a;nn. ..... ,tBiirnn in church of Portland and party were com
aeroplanes are displaying great activity government must be conducted on an en- the foreign relation committee also crit- prevent plots or lawlessness by German 'ng from a wedding in West Baldwin in
and have made several attacks on towns tirely different system. :;i v,r Kiii 4U. i v.i.; . .:.!.. k. a.., tn la seven -nasseneer auto and broko through
in the vicinity of Venice. It is stted Tlie prime minister has taken care toLh for not accept inp a larcer ree in such. The German Government looks the Brandy brook bridge, but all escaped
tnat these attacks causea insignmcant learn the Ideas and views of many per- u,ftr propsed by the Senate, and with great disfavor upon such conduct without serious injury
...... ... , . ..,, """ the latter maintaining that the proposed and desires that they shall not engage
PAST GRAND OFFICERS.
Paris. May 18. Several attacks were and that no military results were ac- circles, and these persons liave offered
v, nn the Verdun complished. (freatly varied suieaestions. None of
r , , , . . , . . , . . Several Italian cities, in addition to these, it is believed, could be adopted in
front last night in an effort to capture a Venjce werg attackpd ,n the recent aerial eBtjrrty but it ig thought they might
redoubt at Avocourt. The official state- rgij, wjich were effective, the sUtement be welded together to form a proposal
ment to-day says the Germans were re- adds. to lay before the cabinet. The premier
milled each time and lost heavily. himself does not know what form his
t, u A TTCTOT A XT TrrT17C! proposal will eventually take, and, in
captured a German fort on the northeast
slope of hill 304. Three German trenches
north of hill 287 were raioert oy irencn
forces, which killed or captured the occu
pants of the positions on the Verdun
front. KHBt of the Meuse the artillery
on both sides was active during the night.
Two French aeroplanes . dropped 80
more shells on the railway station at
Met on the nieht of May 16
The official report of last night reads
as follows
"In the region of Verdun there was
SAC0 CUT OFF
army was too great. Senator Stone said I in breaking the law.
he was so anxious To se the nitrate nro. I Tt was not disclosed whether specific
vision enacted that be would almost be cases have been brought to the attention I By the Worst Flood in a Quarter of
willing to agree to any sue army neces- of the German government, but it was
sary, but insisted there was no need of made clear that Berlin officials want the
an increased army. ( United States to understand that they
Senator Brandegee, author of the have not countenanced any illegal af-
amendment for regular standing army of fairs with which Germans or sympathiz-
Held Annual Meeting and Banquet at
Burlington.
Burlington, May 18. The past grand
officers of the Odd Fellows of Vermont
held their annual business meeting at the
Hotel Vermont last evening with an un
usually large attendance and elected the
following officers: President, H. C. Far
rar, P. (i. M., of Rutland; vice-president,
o. d. waite, r. U. .M., of Hyde Park ; sec-
fact, it will probably be fully developed 9sftnftn m .t .,.m Zhih, L,. w ,... K nnnnA
JPJLUA1 liUVVIN KlVJKr";v:"pliV.:; LZ.T tJ") br th inference, declared that
. .vtiOb 71 .till,. ' f thi. I. I i : t. Ur.. ina t, t . rt
..iv. ..... vmov n.c uibvti im " ''' I I.:, Hiarr . t Ha Ir.n f.r.iw. a...
not ac-c.pt a direct proposal implying tjon and gaid he h d ,the Uyri
home nile But it is believed that they dg the dninkjlrt and t;he fool
ed plan which could possibly be arranged
to meet their most serious objections.
Heaviest Fighting for a Year Is Taking
Place on Austro-Italian Front, Where
General Austrian Offensive Has .
Started.
will save the nation.1
RETIRE FLETCHER
AS COMMANDER OF
ATLANTIC FLEET
FORCE STILL NEEDED
To Back Up Our Moral Influence, De
clares Taft.
Washington, I). C, May 18. Plans for
Mohonk Lake, N. Y., May 18. William Crowe Mancan "was arrested last niffht
IT. Taft anneareil before the Luke Mo-1 f..ii.,...:.. . ,.A .. ).. i,nn. kan th.
I . I lUllUI, lll . IC.ll. V 111.1 '.""I.. n.I.l, V ' . I . . . ,,
bonk conference on international arbitra- D0iioe oflk-ers seized several trallons of the re-organiration of the Atlantic neet,
tion last night as a missionary for the whiskey, some In bottles and the remain- to announced shortly Dy secretary 01
lonrrna if onfArxA naa rt Tn iaVtnn i!a!j ri l i-Jlth NaVV jJarUels. JTC
In the course of the day one of our Laid to be floating down the river Adige. piace presiding office." here, Mr. Taft the illicit transaction, in booze in this P.f . Admrf,
answered the pacihsts, who object to the immediate vicinity for several months
new league Decause it presupposes me use
Geneva, Switzerland, via Paris, May 18.
-Innsbruck reports indicate the heaviest
hghting between Italy and Austria dur
insr a year is in protress in the Reverete
great activity by the artillery of both and Sugana valley regions, while there is
eides in the sectors of Avocourt, hill 304 every evidence that the Austrians have
and between Uouaumont ana vaus. un begun a general offensive from the Alps
the ret ol the tront tnere was no ltn- to the Adriatic.
portant event except quite lively mine I aTf,e nuniber of bodies of Austrian
lighting in the Argonne. soldiers, killed during the fighting, are league to enforce peace.. In takine his L,
pilots in an air fight brought down a The Austriane are usine several batter
German aeroplane which fell northwest I jPg the heaviest cuns beine broueht from
or Kezonviiie. Anotner enemy aeropinne Germany.
snot aown oy one oi ours ien in me re
gion of Ban De Sapt. AMERICANS IN AIR RAID,
"To-day one of our squadrons bombard
ed the Metz-Sablons station, on which it As Part Of French Troops Sustained
dropped shells or large cauore. - SheUimr
"In the region of Verdun the aerial
activity was particularly important. fans. May 18. Ihe American avia
Thirty-three combats took place and tors w no nave been in the service or the
three German aeroplanes were brought! French army for the pest year, and who
down. All our machines returned." I were recently Drought together to term
la flotilla under the name of the franco-
FRENCH REPULSED. American r lying corps, toon part m an
I expedition over the Herman lines yester-
Germans Claim to Have Put Down Three day ior " nst time as a separate unit.
Attacks ley sustained particularly heavy shell-
BIG WHISKEY RAID.
Rutland Woman Got Into Trouble When
She Made Complaint.
Rutland. May 18. Mrs. Catherine
and ODDortunitv for the raid came yes-
of force. He replied also to critics of the terdav afternoon, wln-n Mrs. Mangan
league who believed it would draw the r(,gj,tVred a ee-mplaint with the police
United States into "entangling alliances." of jj,. o, cf f(o, a peculiar chain of
i ao nox xninK we nave reacnea a circumstances Ieadine tin to the issuance
1 ' , II.. T . fl it 1 I 1
unie, aim .ur. laiv, w lien lorce as an
aid to a moral impulse can be dispensed
with. We need a police force at home.
and the same need exists in the relations
between nations."
The opportunity to carry out the pro-
Century.
Saco. Me.. May 18. Thousands of dol
lars' damage was caused in this section retary, F. W. Jackson, P. G. M. of Barre;
yesterday by the worst flood m years, treasurer, O. E. CuiLson, P. G. M. of
Bridges are down, cutting off the city Middleburyj historian, F. G. Nichols, P.
proper from several suburbs, trains are G. M., of Richmond; executive commit
stalled outside the city, and in many tee, Calvin Endress, P. G. M., of Benning
streets the only feasible method of travel ton; Gerry Walker, P. G. M., of Bellow
is by boat. Falls, and W. T. Haigh, past colonel, of
The rain flooded the streets and ave- Brattleboro.
nues leading to Thornton academy, ma- Immediately after thJ business meet
rooning the teaching staff and pupils. came the banquet of the Past Grand
Mavor James H. Fendertion hurried to Officers
Change Will Bring Vice-Admiral Henry suomergea aisir. ... .. wi ol the entire organization were in-
"'"v " s . , ana wnicn is always tme of the
T. Mayo Into Command Fletcher McKenney, the janitor, finally built a most popuiar events 0f a state conven-
WUI Be Assigned to Strategic temporary bridge leading from the acad- tlon. jfore tlfln 300 were pref.n4)
emv house, and the students and in- . t.hn nm urvt r.'.t ;
Work. Istriictors crossed this and proceeded to
main riininfr rvim f ih "ff
upper Main street beyond the flooded sec- u.hjch had be(,n CSp.ciaiiy decorated for
tion. the occasion.
Late in the afternoon, about 50 work- Au.r the djnerg done fuU -ugtica
ers employed at the Garland Manufac- t- th. p.r-ient naof u,i, v,j u.-
nder-in turinB 5on,Pa" " 1W,teT ,tce 4T P"vided, H. C. Farrar, president of the
Mavo lak,P.n frKm- 7k Past Grand Officers' aasiciatnon, rapped
uuuuuik j .w. ror order and turned the post prandial
The sewers were not large enough to mreiMt over to Dr William X. Bryant,
take care of the heavy rainfall. Nearly of who fulfllled the dutieg of
200 cellars were flooded and people were tgtmr in netttmt fa.hion. Two
nnable to get home last night, except in f - f th min9 .. ...
of searoh warrants.
Mrs. Mangan complained of being
robbed of $100 on Tuesday afternoon.
The saloons were closed all day on ac
count of the primary election, but Mrs.
Mangan had two strangers come to see
include the retirement
as comma
chief. Vice-Admiral Henrv ,T. Mayo,
commander of the first division of the
fleet, with flag on the Arkansas, will
succeed Fletcher who aufwiatieally re
turns to the line work of rear admiral
and will probably be assigned to impor
tant strategic work.
Rear Admiral DeWitt Coffmane is to
become vice-admiral. All the change are
to become effective June 1!. Admiral
automobiles or in boats. The clerks in
fish and grocery stores on Elm and Tem
ple streets were marooned yesterday afternoon.
Three small bridges between here and
ing as they recrossed the front.
Berlin, May 18. The repulse to-day of The machine piloted by Lieut. William
three attacks by the French against Ger- K. Thaw of Pittsburg, lost part of its
iiimii i imiLiuftn iii iilii tivr wab niivuutu i lkii i ht. nnu iiiii- irruurjirr until- i . t. i ,
i r 7 r I r in iaUitsiAi w rn rnam rna rtrrsvsa in rha i . . . .
by the war office. aged by a shell, but Lieut. Thaw brought T. ti-I. Jiw-u u-Z w it ' Z Phoe yesterday, neiUier he nor ?ltsi or
: . r - j i t . a i n t f nn tarn rii a Tt a TnnTi a v mil ii no moth r.mi .
posals of the league to enforce peace, Mr. w hn,llM .j .h entertained them for
... r i. . . I -
isit saia, is growing more ana more ap-an h0,.r pr
One of the men returned yesterday
afternoon about 1 o'clock and after stay
ing a half hour he excused himself, say
ing ho wished to get some air. Leaving
hiB hat in the house he walked oiit on
the piazza. He is still taking the air I
and in spite of a diligent search by the
parent.
I do not know how near the end of the
wvtr we are, but there are indications
that they are growing tired of war on
the other side. A man came to see me;
the other day who had a conference with
Sir Edward Grey and Premier Briand and
Fletcher haa completed his term as com- nunstan. on the Saco division of the
mander-in-chief. Portland street railway, have been swept
away. Goose Fair bridge, on the Old Or-
WILS0N WILL SPEAK. chard road, is under water and may be
washed awav. The old mill and dam at
Before League to Enforce Peace Next Thurston's mills. North Saco, went down
sent from the banquet because of illness,
but the Kev. (J. V. Gr lamer and Rev. .1.
S. Braker of Burlintrton made splendid
addresses. Following these speeches there
were impromptu remarkssfrom a nuniber
of prominent Odd Fellows.
ITALY THOUGHT ABLE
TO WITHSTAND ALL
it safely back to camp.
Corporal Victor Chapman s machine
I also waa bit and driven out of its course,
returning to its base so late as to cause
? totti? A xt T7Tr'T7'rrnn anxiety regarding Chapman's fate.
aUOlIVlrVlH fffUIVl Corporal J. M. McConnell, of Carth-
league. They
a plan were made they did not ee bow it
could be upon other than the line pro
posed for this organization. And thev
looked to the LTnited States for the for
mation of such a body."
NINE TEACHERS TO LEAVE.
Week.
Washington, D. C, May lS.-President
Wilson to-day accepted an invitation to
speak Friday or Saturday of next week
at a meeting of the League to Enforce
Peace with former President Taft. Pres
ident Wilson, in speaking to an anti-pre
paredness committee recently, suggested
that after the
combine in
stream last night.
CONDITIONS UNBEARABLE
In Her Home, Says Mary L. Pierce, Whoi
Is Suing for Divorce.
The trial of a contested divorce case,
Mary L. Pierce vs. James A. Pierce, was
commenced this forenoon in Washington
Was Done When Main Street in Kenne- county court Theriault and Hunt ap
pearing ror tne petitioner and Kichard
$20,000 FLOOD DAMAGE
bunk Went Under Water.
Kennebunk. Me., May 18. Damage es
timated at $20,000 was caused late ves-
French Military Authorities State that
Italians Have Built Up Best Defense
that Engineering Skill Could De
vise Austrian Offensive
Make Big Advance.
age, X. C, waa flying at a height of 12
000 fert but German shells burst all
around him, showing that the range of
the German anti-aircraft guns has been
lengthened.
The flotilla started at daybreak and
spent nearly two hours reennnoitcring
under sustained fire, but encountered no
(ierman machines and no one was wound
Rutland High School Faculty to Have with tommon PIice torce-
the nations might . . . fl .. . ... .
a league to enlorce peace , 7, . ,r .....
Many Changes.
Rutland, May 18. The time for teach-
Paris, May 18. The attack launched I .
by the A.trians against the IUliaJi Sergeant Elliott Cowdin of New York
,,. uuw,c'" "" Corporal Kiffen Rockwell of Atlanta, Ga
gradually extended to the entire Austro-
Italian front is being followed here with
close attention. It is generally believed
in military circles that the great Austri
an offensive expected for some time past,
at last has begun.
French military authorities are satis
fied that the Austrians are doomed to
-1 ii .. c l . . . .r . a.1
may make. It is pointed out that the V A11UAIN JklN D
Italians have made every possible prep
aration for such an attack as the present
and that the most powerful defense that
encineerinir skill onild devise has been British Government Hears that Pope Has
Sergeant Norman Prince of Prides Cross
ing, Mass., and Sergeant Hall of Galves
tn, Tex., also took part in the expedi
tion
Three more Franco-American flotillas
are to be organized from the 40 addition
al American volunteers now in training.
OF SUBMARINE WAR
prepared on the Asiago plateau and in
the mountains northwest of Arsiere. It
is on this line that the Italians are ex
pected to make their real stand in the
event that the Austrians continue to
push the offensive.
Ix.ndon, May 18. Interest in the war
operations has suddenly shifted to the
Italian front where the Austrians have
begun to slta. k along the wboje line,
but particularly in southern Tyml
irainst the Italian troops threatening
Trent.
Mere the Italian troops occupied posi
tions just over the Austrian border from
the Adice valley, south of Rovrto, to
the AatM-o valley. The Austrian attacks
cover a front of twenty three miles.
The Italians admit their retirement on
this front and the latest official Austrian
account claims continued gains, the cap
ture of several enemy positions and the
penetration of the Terra gonJa sector, the
driving of the Italians from Moschere
and t storming of Zegnatoria, during
th night.
Till total Austrian captures number
141 officers and 6.2"0 men besides thir
teen giuis and seventeen machine guns.
27 AIR BATTLES
Reported By tie British Official Communication.
Made Representations to Germany
with That View.
London. May 18. Sir Edward Grey,
foreicn secretary, announced in the
House of Commons to-day that the gov
ernment has been informed by Sir Hen
ry Howard, British military ' attache at
the Vatican, that representations have
been made to fJermany by the Vatican
with a view to inducing Germany to
abandon submarine warfare.
BRITISH LOST MONITOR.
Admit That Turkish Batteries' Fire Was
Effective.
London, May 18. A brief official state
ment waned last evening admits the loss
of a small monitor, the M 30. as a result
of the fire of Turkish batteries. The
monitor was reported u having been set
on fire and sunk, in a Turkish official
sUtement Tuesday. The British admir
alty denied the statement, but savs later
advices cotiffrm the Turkish report. Two
men were killed and-two wounded.
ARTILLERY IN USE
0a Austro-luliaa Front, Says Austrian
Statement.
Berlin, via wireless. May IS. Artillerr
engagements are in progress along the
Austro Italian front, where the Austrians
heptn their offensive movement several
sv p. An official Austrian state
ment rf Wednesday reprirts the capture
Ixwidon. May H. The British official
Utenvrnt last nirH on the campaign in
frame and Be!jriura read:
"There be bee a eoniderabl artsi'err
nd trench mcrUr actions to day sbojt ef new petitions on the LV-berdo plateau, or works in her orEce." Harper's,
SWITZERLAND GIVEN
TMTVPM MTTV PUriVTICr' rr t,,p Rut,an1 public schools to ign
li Lirj.ill 111 I IVUU3l!i contracts for re-engagement neit fall ex-
REJECT DANIELS' PLAN.
Germany Announces That Money Will Be
Paid for Loss of Two Swiss People
on the Sussex.
Berne, Switzerland, May 18. The fed
eral government has announced that the
German government has expressed regret
that two Swiss citizens lost their lives
House Naval Committee Maps Out Build
ing Plan of Its Own.
Washington. P. C, May 18. The House
naval committee to-day voted to abandon
the five-vear building program recotn-
jpired yesterday and nine members of the
high schonl tx'arJiing (taf. of 15 members
failed to qualify. Of those who will
nuit. thpir inl. tu-o failed nf re-election.
one was caught by Cupid's snares, two mended by Secretary of the Navy Dan- . fi . . . . BMnin-tonct,tisti(..
to take better positions and the ,,,s nd to build live battle cruiser, no - -
resigned
Germans promised to indemnify the vic
tims families.
balance have not made public their plans
for next season.
Raymond C. Bridges, head nf the sci-
when the Sussex was torpedoed. The ence department, who is to leave, was
graniea an increase in salary oi $im oy
the board of education, and Miss Anna
L. Butler of Proctor, another who failed
to qualify, via re elected with a $.10 in
crease. The other.; whe did not sign con
tracts were Miss Kowena K. Purdon, Miss
Mary L. Moor, who is to be married,
Miss Xellie l Dutton, Miss Marion E.
Monroe and Miss Marion Thomas. Prin
cipal Isaac Thomas and Miss (.lristine 1..
.Nelson failed of re-election. 1 he elec-
dreadnoughts and about 2." submarines
by the current naval bill.
Hoar and J. Ward Carver for the de
fendant. The petitioner wa on the
stand this forenoon and testified to eon -ditions
in her home' life which were un
bearable. She asserted that some of th
and 300 feet on Water street, in the prin- trouble was caused by her husband using
cipal business section of the town, due to liquor.
the effect of a five-inch rainfall. Mrs. Pierce testified that, unbeknown
The postoffice and theatre were sur- to her husband, she paid a mortgage of
rounded by water 18 inches deep and all $.'82 on their house in Warren, making
business came practically to a standstill, the payments from her savings. She said
the reason she did not tell her husband
was because he would demand the monev.
As soon as this case is finished the chh
of State vs. Charles Wvone of Moretown
will be taken up. Wyone is charged with
arson in setting fire to a barn in More-town.
CONGREGATIONAL CONFERENCE
Show Membership Gain.
0BREG0N DENIES REPORT.
TO TRANSPORT BY SEA.
Serbian Troops from Corfu to Saloniki
Front.
Berlin, via wireleM, May 18. A settle
ment of the. dispute between Greece and
the entente allies regarding the transpor
tation of Serbian troops from the Corfu tion of Edward S. Abbott of Montpelier
: i i . . i. L-I :t.: t . - .1 I . .... . . . .
it.in.ius iu mi- f-uiuuiki nun i, i n-puiirup xtLM jir. l iiomas pace is the only
trom Athens to nave oeen reacnea Dy me vacancy thus far filled.
decision to transport the troops by sea
and not by rail, to which Greece objected.
DROWNED MONTH AGO.
The Family Tree.
"I've looked up vour family tree
said the genealogist, "but I doubt if you
will be pleased with it. lour great
great grandfather waa hanged for raiir
der; vonr great-grandfather was impris
oned for robbery; your grandfather was
tarred and feathered for beating his wife
That's not a very good record, is it!"
"I should sav it is, replied the other
emphatically. "It shows the fsmilv is
getting better w ith each generation. I
an improvement on the entire bunch
never been in jail vet. x me .have
those records I'm prcnid of 'era. Bos
ton Transcript.
In Order of Rank.
The following story is t"ld of the
mavor of a western city.
A small boy, who afterward proved to
be a nephew of one of the mayor s ste
nographers, was wandering about in the
city hall, when one of the officials there
happened upon him.
"well, sonny, inquired the man gen
ially, "for whom are you looking!"
"For mv Aunt Kate."
"Can't you find her!"
I can't swm to."
"And don't you know where she i!
"Not exactly. She's in brre some
where, though, and I know that the but.
Body of Peter F. Morency Has Just Been
Found in Black River.
Springfield, May !. The body of Pe
ter F. Morency, who was drowned in
Black river about four weeks ago. was
found yesterday. Mr. Morency and Wil
liam Benjamin sittcmptcd tn cross the
river on the night of April 21, near the
Fellows Cear s.hspr company, where
they were employed, to their homes on
River street, but the boat became un
manageable and went over the clam.
Both jumped and Benjamin was rescued.
The body was turned ovej to Under
taker W. H. Angel. Mr. Morency left
brothers in Sprmpfield. Mass., and an
uncle in Brorkt.n. Mass.. alio have been
notified.
PAID tl9.M FOR FISH.
Fre4 Murphy of Ripton Settled with the
Court.
That He Made Public Declaration of Con
fidence in President Wilson.
i
Mexico City, May 18. General Alsro
Obrcgon, minister of war. yesterday de
nied reports in circulation in the I'nitcd
States that he had expressed confidence
that President Wilson did not contem
plate war with Mexico.
"Pleaoe deny the report that I have
made a public declaration of confidence
that President Wilson does not contem
plate war with Mexico," said General Ob
regon. "I have made no declaration.
public or private, regarding international
relations since leaving El Paso.
Bennington. May 18. At the Vermont
Congregational conference yesterday
Auditor Horace F. Graham of Craftsbury
delivered a short address upon "The
Duty of the Church to the State."
The morning session was largely de
voted t the !isth annual meeting of the
WILL BEING CONTESTED
On Ground That William McKee Was
Not Mentally Capable.
. In Washington county probate court
Vermont Domestic Missionary society, to-day a hearing was held in proving th
the director's report being rea.l by Rev. I will of William McKee, late of Calais,
C. H. Merrill, the secretary. It showed and then a continuance was taken to Sat-
TRANSFERRED TO PLATTSBURG.
Three Companies of Regulars from Forts
in Maine.
St. Johnt-burv. May IS. Three com
panies of regular troops stationed at
the receipts of the year to have been
$16..K8..'i!; exiK-n'. f 802.1.70; income
from legacies and invested funds, 7,
713.14. The statistical report, prepared by
John M. ComaUvk of theNca. shows
that there are now 21ii churches in the
state with a membership of 2'2.!7!, an
increase of .720 over the nuniber report
ed at the lat conference. The amount
of money raised for benevolence during
the year'was $.14.0:28 and funds raied f'r
home expanses totaled f27ti.fiS4.
urday. Some of the heirs are contesting
the will on the ground that Mr. McKee)
was not mentally capable of making the
will.
Zeba H. McAllister of Waitsficld to
day setrled his accounts as guardian for
Michael Cota.
CARNIVAL IN ST. J0HNSBURY
Weather
Was Started
Under Adverse
Conditions.
CLASS HONORS ANNOUNCED.
Forts Preble and William in Maine, for St. Johnsbury Academy Commencement
Week of June 11.
St. Johnsburv. May 18. The class dsy
mH. mi Nt .Tobnshi
. - - . ...
14. have been announced as follows:
Prrrhey for the prophetess. Charlotte X.
Bundv; presentation. Archie S. Hunter;
presentation to the presenter. Klhert
Thomas (iallsghcr; class will. K.iland E.
McSweeney. all of M. Johnsbury.
"Pie rommcivTmerit exercises a.'l tie
held Thursday morning and the address
to tHe cls .!l be gnen by Ihe former
New Yrk congressman. Hon. W. IVnirke
ICorkran. of Port Washington. I.. I. Con
the last nine years, went through St.
Johnsbury yesterday en route for Platts-
burg. The men wera traveling in six
car attached to a special train and were
huskv looking bunch of I ncle Sam's
defenders. The troops formerly stationed
at Platt'burg have been sent to Texas,
and these companies replace them. One
of the officers stated that they experted
to be sent to Mexico before the expiration
of six months.
Each company carried a dog mascot and
the canines scared honors with their
masters as thev exercised on the station
platform.
St. Johnsbury. May 18. St. Johns
bury's big four-day carnival and indus
trial exposition opened yesterday. The
weather conditions have not been favor
able, but the Commercial club, which is
arranging the affair, is going ahead with
the elaborate plans. It is a made-in-St.
Johnsburv exhibition, and the large
fohnsbury academv. June building in which the affair is being held
is devoted to exhibit of St. .lohnshurv s
industries and the lines carried by the
towns leading merchants. In addition,
many of the wholesale houses and manu
facturing plants of New England hava
exhibits.
The building and booths were decorat
ed bv Mrs. A. M. Fraser of Manchester,
X. H.
!grrmn tWkran is the son in law of
j Judge Henry Me of this place.
i j r-e mmnrnff meni wrmon win iv
V1'1' -VJ xi J,.7i 'LTT?. of,Germa Vessel Said to Have Bee. Sunk' rre---Jl Sunday night Jim- II. by
Germaa Mine. 1 T"- ' " rMn" " "
( m.rr.
Ripton. arrested M-m-Uy night by George
H. ttiaffee. county and game warden, tor
having in his poe'"n .IS short lerglh
tfmt. was brotigM to Midl'ehury and
pleaded guilty. .Murphy was fined 45 for
each fish, mskirg !T-. ith fl1i-nt.
in all UMBO. I lie amruiit wf immedi
ately paiL
TORPEDO BOAT LOST.
Bf
Clerks' Notice.
Copenhagen, via Iondon. Mar l.Ai
(rermsn t-rido boat has he-en sunk by)
a Ormsn mn off Falthrd. Sweden.!
awrd.fig to t Se Br"'wrsketKinde" Mai- There will be a rltk" n"c ,"g Fr.tUv.
rrto correspondent. A.'l but otw of t May I, at 7 p. m. I n't i-Tget tt rj-
rew were saoi. iter.
VERMONT PASTOR CALLED.
Rev. A. P. Pratt of Bellows Falls ta
Greenfield, Mats.
CreenfeM. Mass.. Msy t. The Seconl
Congreirstiofisl ohurrh extended a nnan.
eou ea'l Ut evening ti i'.rt. Arthur
Pes K-.lv Pratt. I. I) , of B. llo s lalls.Yt.
Ir. Ilt is a graduate of l'-"t--n imi
vers'tv. I - "I. Sf l I fJlef ie t ..ijgTe--iti--".l
orf at ! ;' f F.'li f
tj.e pt trn jears.
