SUBMARINE DISPUTE IS ENDKD: WASHINGTON, May 19. -Germany considers the submarine question closed and will not rep'iy to the last American note.
SHELLING EL ARISH: LONDON, May 19. British warships and aeorplanes today bombarded the town of El Arish, in Egypt;vit is believed they destroyed the fort.
WEATHER NORTH OF YUMA: "Arizona will have rain in the north tonight or Saturday; cooler tonight." '
AUSTRIANS BEATING DOWN ITALIAN LINES: LONDON, Mayl 9. Although the Austrian offensive drive on the Italian front is meeting with stiff resistance, the
Austirajls are gradually gaining along a front of over five miles.
FRESH CHARGE AT VERDUN: PARIS, May 19. The fighting has been resumed on a large scale at Verdun. Fresh German' troops today attacked the French
positions. The attacks were mainly unsuccessful. i;
MATT HUGHES IS NEW BISHOP: SARATOGA SPRINGS, May 19. Dr. Matt S. Hughes of Pasadena, a brother of Bishop Hughes of San Francisco, was ' today
elected a bishop by the Methodist conference is session in this city. :
MEXICAN RAIDERS HANG: BROWNSVILLE, Tex.,-May 19. The first legal executions for the Mexican raids of last summer was set today with, the hanging of
Melquaides Chapa and Jose Buenrostro, the slayers of A. L. Austin and son Charles, following a raid on Sebastian, August 9th. Gov. Ferguson will not interfere.
YUMA SOUTHWEST
y .v.
1 ; " ''.wf
.My',":- '
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
GADSDEN
VOLUME XLYL NUMBER 25.
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
German War
ET PARK TO . BE
I1L DAI 0
(By B. F. Fly)
It is gratifying, indeed, to
be able to state that the band
stand in- Sunset Park is to be
built, and will be completed
in time so it can be occupied
on preparedness parade day
and Decoration Day, May 30,
for President A. B. Ming, of
the Commercial Club gave me
this -good news today. .
The committee having the
matter in charge has received
bids for the construction, and
all that remains is to raise the
money $225.
The city park fund has
$180 on hand, $100 of which
can be devoted to this pur
pose. The balance can be
raised within an hour by sub
scription. So it can be stated
almost definitely that the
band stand will be ready on
schedule time.
The idea of having a Preparedness
parade has taken a firm hold among
all the people of Yuma. From present
outlooks at least three thousand will
be in line, and if Persident Ming's
ideas are carried out the' number may
easily be doubled. He wants every
automobile in the valley, as well as
every one across the river to agree to
be in line" for this patriotic event and
there is every reason to believe they
will be.
An invitation will be sent all auto
mobile owners in this section, through
the Commercial Club, to participate
in the event. This feature and other
details will be worked out at tonight's
meeting of the Commercial Club.
Already we're assured of the hearty
co-operation of Col. French and his
"battalion of crack troops of the 21st
V. S. infantry, with the regimental
land under the leadership of Director
Butler. Superintendent Odle makes
the same promise for the Yuma band
and the Yuma Indian s.chool; and
Prof. McGraw, of the grammar school,
promises that not less than 500 of his
patriotic pupils will be in line. The
high school will turn out as a body. So
will the ever patriotic Elks; and, from
all I can learn all other civic bodies
in Yuma will do the same. It is to
be hoped that all the Yuma valley
schools, as well as the Bard school,
will also be in line.
There is to be no expense attached
to the parade, unless it be the matter
of providing flags for the schools.!
The central idea is to show the world J
that according to population, Yuma '
can turn out more people for an. event
of this character than any other town
in the United States. New York in her '
immense parade furnished about five !
per cent of her population. Yuma
will very likely turn out ninety-five
per cent, and' every man, woman and
I child will be just as patriotic, just as
enthusiastic, just as loyal to Old
Glory as was any man or woman in
the New York parade.
The Fox Film company has been in
vited to come from Los Angeles and
take a moving picture of the Yuma
preparedness parade.
NOTES FROM LOCAL
ARMY HEADQUARTERS
Major Wilson Chase reached Yuma
this morning directly from Washing
ton, where he has heretofore been at
tached to the War College, but now
assigned to duty with the battalion
stationed at this point, under com
mand of Colonel French.
Lieutenant Raymond C. Baird, for
merly stationed in Honolulu, has
reached Yuma and been assigned to
duty with Col. French and his batta
lion. Lieutenant Rowe has been assigned
as regimental ordinance officer.
Col. IFrench and Adjutant Tiffany
made a trip to Laguna dam j'esterday
m company with Project Manager
Lawson and were much impressed
with the head works of Yuma's Irri
gation system.
(Associated Ruesg)
DETROIT, May 19. Col.
Roosevelt is coming to Michi
gan "because Ford was vic
torious" in the vote of- the
people of Michigan at the re
cent preferential primary.
He reiterated his opposi
tion to "all kinds of hyphen
ated Americanism," and ad
vocated universal military
service based on universal
treating, and declared that
the U. S. must abolish the
pork barrel methods of na
tional defense "stop talking
and get down to the business
of thorough preparedness.
"If we make the nation as strong
1 as its convictions on ,right or wrong,
there will be no need of saying that
we are fit "to defend ouselves a little
bu,t not much," he said. "The only
right principle is to avoid hitting if
possible; but never hit softly. To go
to war with little but not much is a
certain way to ensure disaster." He
asserted further that "the . extreme
naval party of Germany recently ad
vocated a war with the United States,
holding that it would result in' Ameri
ca paying the war expenses ' of. the
Germanic allies."
Later
Hundreds of children greeted Roose
velt when he arrived here today as
the guest of the American Day cele
bration. He addressed the Boy Scouts
at the station, advising them not to
be mollycoddles. He said he approved
of the organization because it taught
the boys to fight for truth.
The following interesting value of tIie Producms mines of Ariz.
4.; uaA under proposed law $69,927,307.05.
communication, printed m, 0 .. , ' . .
u nu - in -(1 Suotractm& above from actual as-
tne PhoeniX Messenger, Wlil!sessment ieaves a deficiency of valu-
doubtleSS be read With great ation under proposed mine tax bill of
interest by taxpayers:
$48,09S,696.69.
It will thu3 be seen that under the
provisions of the "Special Mine Tax
Bill" the total valuation of all of the
producing mines of the state would
been requested on numerous occasions haye beeQ sl,ghtly under 70j000000
2ditor The Messenger,
Phoenix, Arizoua.
Bear Sir: The Tax Commission has
to give to the public data and infor-
for the year 1915, and that the valu-
YESTERDAY'S RESULTS
18 BIS LEAGUE GAMES
The boys of the Twenty-first U. S.
Infantry, together with Col. French
and his staff officers, are now given
a taste of California sand storms.
Heretofore they have been living for
a long time on the rain and snow
storms of Vancouver, where free
meals were offered every day there
was no rain, while Frank Ming, of the
S. P. hotel offers Col French and
nis entire battalion free meals every
day the sun doesn"t shine. Quite a
difference if it were not for those
abominable Imperial valley sand
storms.
Coast League
At Vernon: Oakland, 2; Vernon, 7.
A.t San Francisco: Los Angeles, 1;
San Francisco, 1.
.At Salt Lake City: Portland, 4;
Salt Lake City, 11.
16 BE! SITU
NOT PERFECTLY CLEAR
American League
At Boston: St. Louis, 7; Boston, 1.
At Philadelphia: Chicago, 1; Phil
adelphia, 5.
At Washington: Cleveland, 4;
Washington, 2.
At New York: The Detroit-New
York game was postponed on account
of the extreme cold weather.
! National League
j At Chicago: Brooklyn, 3; Chicago, 4.
At Cincinnati: Boston, 2; Cincin
j nati, 3 .
1 At St. Louis: New York, 3; Saint
Louis, 0.
At Pittsburgh: Philadelphia, ' 3;
Pittsburgh, 0.
MARATHON, May 19. Rosalio
Hernandez, with about 300 men, is eng
camped about 40 miles south of where
Langhorne's expedition was yesterday.
It is now reported that Hernandez has
a total of 500 men in that vicinity. He
is alleged to be acting independently,
and it is unknown whether or not he
is responsible for the Glenn Springs
raid, but it is reported that he made
no attempt to apprehend the raiders.
Col. Sibley's forces are expected to
reach Boquillas by Saturday unless he
is ordered to remain in Mexico. Maj.
Langhorne will arrive about a day
later.
DC I5!!l
HU. WllllijU E 1
Fill! HE-UNION
I30 0O000000O0O0OO0
jO YOU ARE EXPECTED O
O to join in the Fiesta of the Anni- O
0 versary Sale which starts Satur- O
lO day, May 20, at Brownstetter's. O
ioooooooooooooococ
amuuii iwamu W yuC ia.au,, .aiu- assessment actually placed
F V. ,--r,Af,.,tiTn. -miliar, r9 Mia - "
ul u.u t.aui,v Qn the game property hy the rj
state under the plan adopted for the Coramission was approximately 70 per
assessment of same by the commis- ceRt higher or slightly mor than
sion, as .well as the valuation that ?11S000,000.00. The figures above set
would have been shown under the forth haye been carefully checked and
revisions of the proposed Mine Tax are absoluteiy correct.
Law' In conclusion I will -state that the
Previous to this time the commis- relation existing between the Tax
Aon has not deemed it advisable to Commission and Mining Companies of
.agitate a question that had apparently the State at the present time are
been amicably settled, in a manner, ( highly satisfactory and cordial. Prac
vupposedly satisfactory to . all con- ucahy every company shows a dis
cerned.' 'position to be fair and furnish all of
However, it appears from interviews , Lhe information necessary to arrive at
furnished the daily press by some of an equitable assessment. The insur
tlie prominent politicians of the state, i mountable difficulties predicted by
that some of them assume that mine certain members of the last legisla
tax legislation will again be an issue ture, in valuing and assessing the
in the forthcoming political cam- mines, did not materialize, but on the
paign." J ontrary, a majority of the companies
If this assumption is correct and have expressed satisfaction with the
well founded, it will doubtless be ot method used by the Commission.
some interest to taxpayers to know If a few of the "quack tax doctors"
comparative facts and figures as to will "lay off" during the next session
what the valuation of the productive of the legislature, I am sure the min-
ines would have been, had the so- ing companies will gladly submit the
called "Bacon Special Privileges Mine taxation of their property to the same
ax Bill' become a law. laws and authority that other classes
The bill provided that producing of property are required to submit to,
mines of the state be valued for pur- and the Mine Tax question will not
poses of taxation at a sum equal to again be the cause of two special ses-
four (4) times their net proceeds plus sions of the legislature, as it was - in
twelve and one half per cent of their ihe year 1915.
Very truly yours,
CHARLES R. HOWE,
Chairman State Tax Commission.
Mrs. Carl Moser returned last even
ing form a week's visit at the Bard
home place and reports good prospects
for that promising section. Tuesday
was her mother's birthday and a fam
ily re-union was held. Her brother,
Roy Whitmore, is making good as a
Bard farmer.
Examine our display of Summer
Millinery before purchasing. The Mar
vel. , 51-55
PROGRAM FOR THE B:ND CONCERT TONIGHT
Reclamation Grounds at 7:15
1. March, "The Colossus of Columbia" Alexander
2. Overture, "Zampa" Herold
3. Descriptive, "The Forge in the Forest" Michaelis
i
4. Selection, "The Wizard of the Nile" Herbert
5. Prologue from "II Pagliacci" Leoncavallo
6. Oriental Patrol, "In Cairo" Von Blon
7. Popular Medley, "The Grand Slam" Meden
FREDERICK G. BUTLER, Conductor.
N. B.: The Saturday evening concert will be an impromp
tu program at the main camp.
G. 0.D
gross proceeds of the previous year,
after all expenditures in connection
with the development and operation
of the mine had been deducted. The
expenditures above set forth were not i
subject to review or correction by any !
assessorial - authority.,
The Tax Commission took the posi
tion then, and still holds, that under i
the ad-valorem system of taxation, no !
class of property is entitled to a privi-!
lege that cannot be accorded ail other
classes. This position is not founded
on a spirit of antagonism toward the ; The Srocery business on Madison
producing mines of the state, but 'avonu0' midwa' between Second and
rather from a disposition to be abso-; 'Inrd streets,. which a few weeks ago
lutely fair and impartial to ail of the : vas Phased b' Mr. Ricks, was yes
different classes of property that must, ! terday sold b-v Mr- Ricks t0 . B.
of necessity, submit to heine vnlued Whltmore, of the C O. D. grocery,
. GROCERY
BUYS BiCK'S STOCK
assessing au-j
and assessed by some
thority.
Producing mines of the State were
valued and assessed by Tax Com. for
1915 not including personal property)
at $11S,02G,003.74.
Actual net of all producing mines in
State as reported to Tax Com. for the
"year previous" (1914) $15,796.060.32. : "Hughes is the favorite i Republican
Total gross for same period was for president," says the chorus of
$53,994,526.16. !tocratic newspapers; meanwhile,
.f'our time sabove net plus 12 per Roosevelt is a' favorite with many
cent .of gross proceeds equals total thinking Americans of all parties.
'Alio will remove the stock to his
store in the Cotter block. The vacated
building, of which Mr. Ricks retains
ownership, will be overhauled and an
addition 20x34 feet will be built at
lie rear. Anpther business will soon
; e opened in that place.
