w
6 ,-.,-.?
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
'
f-.-.,IFi
. .r
KLAMATH
3X i'&
jiJ .
OFFICIAL
MVWlMMr '
w" "-t:. afi
-- - " .-
jsjtia
- -,-.- t , y.'-f
. - r'.li M"'
Ttnth Year No. 8,M
KLAMATH FALL!, OREGON, THURSDAY, MAY IS, 1916
t)'.t
PrlM Five Cents
yi
HEARINGS IN THE i
RATE CASE CLOSE
AND MEN RETURN
POWER COMPANY OIVKN TIME TO
Fltt A P.IIF
stalwart of ouGuardfNuY Bulletins Car eful, Now!
City Attorney Oroosbeck Reached
Htrt tast Night, and Others Will Bt
Her Tonight Shoots li Impcetlno
Fire Apparatus at Different Towns
Betwssn Here and Portland Ruling
It Mad.
I'liy Attorney Hollo C. Orocsbcck.
who conducted tbe city's complaint
hcnlnNt tbo California-Oregon Power
company's rotes before (be Public 8tr
v!n ('(immlHNlon, returned Inst night
twin Salem, where the flnnl heurlngx
with hold. Ooorgn J. Wnllnn. Chits. J
IVrKiiton iiml other nlteudlni: will
to home tonlKbt.
All of the testimony linn now liccu
Mibmltted In (In cam. both sides rout
ine. The comntlHKlon gave the power
cutiipnny until July 1 In which to flli
Iia 1,1 iff on the IpkuI points at Ihmip.
und the city wan given twcnl ilnyc
ilicii'altci' In which to answer.
In tln meantime, the case Ih nailer
ctiimlilorution by the comniloHlou, the
otliei points being taken up. Tint
hearings were both formal and tit for
mal, Iho formal hearing being hold at
8.11cm, and the Informal at tlit com
mUiilonV office In Portland.
Dm Ins the bearings Iho comntlssloii
iuIi-iI from the bench that all utilities
rauNt dollver service at the property
ovm-r'4 Um. Heretofore some of tho
water consumers have Installed pipe
lines from the company's main to their
own property.
Councilman It J. Sheets, who wan u
wltucs for the city, la making Investi
gation of Are apparatus In other cities.
and went as far north as Seattle. In
Pidwn n few days ago the Amorlcnn
laPrnncc company gavo a demonstra
tion with a combination truck for tho
benefit of the Klamath Palls people.
Shre th will visit the Ashland and Mod
fori) departments before returning.
5B9
I YJmm';:mmW
'- jnikLHi
; ,r 'mmMmmM
' JHiglaLaHI
aVaftfeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaafll
iV'atggigiggBgigiBHI
vLwmKi
'it. gigigWLV
3a" &W& BbYBbTv af9gl
r$i " - sVw8aaaBnkaH
W1 . : ElmWmM
4 3Mwl2&8SB.
LONDON, May 18. Tbo ParU cor-! It shall kt unlawful for any oerson
rcxpondent of the Chronicle asserts 'at any BUM) in the day of election to
that 300,000 Germans have been killed; ask, solicit, or In any manner try to
i.ti.l wounded during the Verdun cam- Indue or aeniuade any voter on such
1'iilKti. He nlso claims severe losses election day to vote for or refrain from
In Hie prelude to the German offensive ' voting for any candidate, or the can
iifcalnut ItlKa, with only a thin lino of JdldaUs or ticket of any political party
'l.-nnnnii left nloiiR the Ilusslan front 'or organisation, or any measure sub'
"The lonK ;vnded destiny is at last) mltud to iho people, and upon convlc-
IokIiik In on the Germans," he says. I tion theroof no shall bo punished by
Twenty tliounnnd Turks have been! fin of nt loss than flvs dollars nor
tl'llli.lrtiwn fmi.i Ia ll.l,ul. .. A...I .A AI.AK Jt ft-..-i .,f. m . '
............. ,umi iiiu uimnu iiuni earn, mun tnan in nungrin agiiars ior ine
nf KutKIAmnrn, apparently to meet ' first offense, and for tho second and
tli ItiiHxInn advance toward Daxdad. 'each subSMUOnt offonso, occurrlna on
. w w
Enemies Ever, but Friends Always
TIih TurkH nro recruiting tho native
tillx-mni'ii In that section.
.iav;
Iti'prcHcntntlvo William A. Itoden
lM-rK of KiiMt St. I.oiiIk wiih cnUKhl by
' Aft.. ..... .. .JlAff..... .1..AI J ft-.
- shall b punlshod by fin as aforesaid,
j or by imprisonment In tho county Jail
UKIttlN, May 18. it is announced j for not ls than five nor more than
Hint Hie French attack on tbo southern thirty day, or by both such fine and
Mope of Hill No. 304 broke under close j Imprisonment Section 3618, U O. L.
ranee German artillery fire. Heavy ,. . ... . . . , . "
nrtlllPrylnB continued all night along' U f ",wful for any aerson
both banks of the Mouse. t0 "'' y r damage
(dwe te attendsVice at the polls, or in
PAULS, May 18-lennany ha failed 1 ,,U?'i"' ' Ut tht "
In nn attempt to advance her llnesl!?B,1t,f";, or fpom " "
northwest of Ventun. near rwftnH u.n. ! " Prsen snail pay for personal sor-
Hill, by n Krenade assault. v,e .Prf0Mn X J
caucus, primary, convention, or any
election, for any purpose connected i
therewith, tending in any way, direct-
ly or Indirectly; xo afToct the result
thereof, except for the hiring of per-
sons whose eeie duty is to act as chat j
lengers and watch the count of official '
ballots. No person shall buy, sell, give '
or provide arty political badge, button j
or other Inalgna to be worn at or I
about the polls on the. day of election,
and no such political badge, button or
other Inslgna ettal! be worn at er about
the polls en any election day. Section
SS16. U O. L.
VIKNNA, May 18. Tho Austrlans,
1 Ih olllelally iinnounced, nro contin
uing tlielr offensive around Trentlno.
They have driven the Italians from Im
portant pnHltloiiH, n nd have Itnprlxnned
0.200 mon.
LONDON, May IS. it l announced
Hint Ilrltlxh destroyers und monitors
cnKtiKcd German destroyers off the
nelfilan coast yesterday. Tho Germans
withdrew nfter n hort flRht.
HKItLIN, May 18 Austria has hand-
pliotoraplier In Washington In cA tho neu,ral Pwer a "e declaring
tin
I.Ih UHunl flKlitliiK. tiKurcfislvo mood. I r,cveM Persons. .Including three worn
He Is one of the mnlwarts of tbo old r"' P011'1 ,n the sinking of the Aus
trian Kicnmer nuoroviK in tno Adri
atic. The vessel was sunk May t, two
r.mird In (lie putty, nnd ho is going to
bo heard from nt tbo Chicago convention,
COMBINED CHOIR
WILL BE FORMED
torpedoes being fired nt It. The first
struck the steamer, mid the other one
Htruck one of the lifeboats. Austria
stiles this attack an "International
murder." She denies the Italian. claim
that the vessel was n munitions car-rler.
ALL MU8ICIAN8 OF THE CITY ARK
INVITED TO ATTEND BIO RE
HERSAL AT PRE8BYTERIAN
CHURCH TOMORROW
TORD PICNIC TO
BE BIG AFFAIR
EX-
FINLEY TO TAKE
AND SHOW FILMS
William L. Plnley, state biologist,
will arrive In Klamath Falls about
Mny 24, to take motion pictures of bird
life for tho State Fish and Game Com
minion's educational campaign. He
will spend several days here.
On tho night of May z7th. Flnjey will
'bow the other films of bird and an
IroM life, and will lecture these. This
meeting will be held at Houston's op
era bouse, and will be of great Inter
Mt to all.
While here, Mr. Flnley will also ad
dreH the school children on bird and
animal life subjects.
OVER TWO HUNDRED AUT08
PECTED TO TURN OUT FOR
GEORGE BIEHN'S ANNUAL
TREAT FOR "LIZZIE" OWNER6
A special invitation is being extend
ed to tho members of all tho church
choirs of tho city and to members of
any other mimical organizations of the
city to meet for n combined choir re
hearsal tomorrow evening at 7:15, at
Iho Presbyterian church to prepare
fnnelnl tmiMlf fnr llm iinlnn rhiirrh
service to be hold In tho opcm taouao'W" a Ford-and they are legion
on Sunday evening. , "u Klamath County-Is rnak-
This Is to t.o tho baccalaureate set-, ln,s p,om, lK "eBd LhefBrt T
vice for the Kniduntlng class of the,p'cn,c' t0 ,ven b core 'hn'
hi.h UM.n,.i , Mr vwn x,,ph. I the man who has made hundreds hap-
enbncbcr, tho musical director, Is nnx
camp on Sprtag Creek, and there will
be over 200 Ford cars thereeach car
rying a Mg party of Ford boosters.
This Is the second annual picnic giv
en Dy Biesa, aaa it promises to be a
hummer. Jest to sbow how little
Ford owners care about the Jests di
rected at their vehicles, a prize will
be given for. the. host Ford Joke. .Ford
owners, and owners of Qaktaad cars
are asked to take luncneona and
friends.
A start will be saade from the Ford
parage at 7 o'cleck: Suday morning.
At 2:30 a program of races, etc., will
be held, and during the day thirty
Ave gallons' of ice cream will be given
out. to the guests by the hnatUag host,
Mr. Blehn.
M HBaHgsBgplS Kfi?4'- y9' t f0ff
', ' 'tfX, MjRk Z'vs z'fy ByAwiBBBBBBK jaBBBBBM
ii'ft J' sjBjaH f V"-? .!a ' r?' B'HnrftH
BI66ER
NAVY AND
DISARMAMfNTARf
BOTH SUPPORTED
E
I HOUSE NAVAL COMMITTEE
! PORT UNIQUE
RE.
'Republican Members Wore Solid
Against the Program as Arranged,
and Will Bring In Minority Report.
Committee Favors Expenditure of
, Nearly Two Hundred Mlllllen en
Naval Vessel Construction at Once.
Ex-Speaker Joseph G. Cannon
.Speaker Champ Clark
Rebekahs Tonight
Prosperity Rebekah Lodge will meet
in regular session tonight -'There will
be Initiation, and all aaewbers are re
quested to turn out Visiting Rebekahs
cordially invited.
In
There will be u woeful lack of "tin"
Klamath Falls Sunday, for every
Ions to meet 'nil of those, pcoplo bo
longing to thoso organizations and any
other 'who hava had some experience
In doing chorus work to prepare for
this occasion.
his distribution of
this much Joked, but nevertheless ex
ticmely popular car through Klamath.
This picnic will bo held at Spink's
Up From. Merrill. -Mr.
and Mrs. J. Frank Adams and
ton JftUrUn, .P., a -McDonald and Mr.
and Mrs. Bob Daltoh were among the
Merrill' and Malln people here for the
Elks show last night
When the' bouse of representatives party, hut Champ Clark is not nhl
held its little eelel-atlon of the Flgb- enough to have seen the Democratic
tioth hirthda .r Uncle Joe, no one party bom. They have fought each
tooU a f::oalei 1 at crest than Speaker other in the house for more than a
Clf.ilc. t.'nrlc Joe and Champ Clark t quarter of a century. But never has
ure ulil nirn now. Uncle Joe was at- there been a time when they were not
it li nt the birth -i the rcpub'lcan 'personal friends: "
H. 6. WILSON TO
A NEW STATION
INDIAN SERVICE MAN Witt
KNOWN HERE, GOES TO A BIT
TER P08ITION IN OMAHA C. E.
COE IS HIS 8UCCESSOR
sweeping, in character, the dlatrictfor
' merly adnunlaterad.hr Mr. WOsseinow
being; almost evenly divided. The ln
.spectlon work will be conducted by L.
J A. Dorrington, who receives the title
ot special agent and whose headquar
ters will be at San Francisco. Mr.
Coe, the superintendent will have the
administration of the finances and oth
er matters, which will be handled from
this city. Mr. Wilson, until the Inaug
uration of the new system, acted as
WASHINGTON, ,D. C, May 18. The
house committee on naval affairs today"
adopted n big navy program for one
year. Simultaneously, the committee
went on record as In favor of universal
''.sarmament
'The report tendered today urges the
president to do everything In his
power to bring about the settlement of
International disputes by arbitration.
The program adopted by tbe com-,
mitfee provides for the expenditure of
$180,000,000 on fleet construction. Tbe
number of ships recommended by Dan
iels, In every class, have been in
creased. ' The report as prepared provides for
five" battle cruisers, four scout cruos
ers, ten destroyers and twenty sub
marines. The battle cruisers are to have a
speed of thirty-five knots an hoar.
Four of the destroyers are to he built
on the Pacific Coast
. The republican members of the com
mbttee voted solidly .against the-pr
gram. They will, return a minority report
To Chlloquln.
Charles B. Otey left today, tor Neva,
above Chlloquln, to begin logging op
erations for the Pelican' Bay Lumber
company. He will nave a crew of
about thirty-live men.
Finleys Here.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Iloss Flnley were up
front Merrill yesterday to attend to
business matters, and to attend "A
Night in Bohemia."
Rose Queen's Float; Let's
Put a Klamath Girl on It
Rose Queen Boosters,
Get Busy or Shell Lose
Are you anxious to sue Klamath
Mis represented at the Portland Rose
atlval by the queen, king, and a
hllai Klamath float? If so, get busy
IMMEDIATELY, as the contest closes
Jomorrow at midnight. This Is pos
'lively your last chance to help MIsh
vlvo Jacobs, and If you do not rally
0 hor "upport. ah la nearly certain
J lose, after making a game struggle
r several weeks. KHni FntnttMi. Knoene. 1.101.492.
trlends of Miss Jacobs are getting Loulso Taylor, Portland, 1,033.607.
'wy today, and as a result, bar aland-1 Jewell Carroll, Portland, 980,861.
"W wll be boosted. But still more ; Muriel Baling. Pendleton, 554,076.
"" be done, aa at present Miss , Rose Uptegrove, Oregon City, 490,488
"cobs ii fourth, landslides for other! Eleanor Jackson, MoMlnnrllle, 487.818,
I
tnudldiitcH putting them ahead of her.
The standing, as telegraphed from
Portland to tho Herald todny Is ns
follews:
Mildred Pegs, Vancouver. Wash., 1,-
400,410.
Maudo Oilman, Portland, 1,461,107.
Lillian Hendrlcksen, Portland, 1,898.-
181.
Waive Jacobs, Klamath Falls, 1,313,-
S23.
'"SW.jv'r-" !'", .ftWi'VL1" fc
gTs
.afforflK.
BSBsBTaTBBaTBBPgsgsTs BeToToToToff
laflBBsBsBBaHlglilhSHBi BBBaaaaat - -
JflBEsiMMplF i gfBBBesaH
BBBnBaBaBaBalingiSsi'Bil
BaTBTBTBTBTBTjPBSPffHHilBgcSlR
BgSTBBSTBKnivf SSJT ' bsVeBBsTBBsTBBsast
BBilBBBBBBBBEESfMMMk, MkiLBSHiJviiBBBaaBBaB
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBF?iBPeawB4S
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBMkf&s;. ;7yi.SJ HBBJ; VJI anMHBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSB
K&QMIBBBBBBBBBBBBBBJ ,
aimHr
The following. frrom the Roaeburg
Review will be of great interest In
Klamath ceunty:
According to Information received at
tbe local Indian agency, C. E. Coo, for
merly connected with the Indian ser
vice' at Salt River, Arlsona, will reach
Roseburg soon and will at once relieve
K, O. Wilson, who has order to pro
ceed to take charge of a new appoint
ment in the;East Owing to the recent
changes 'made by the heads of the de
partment at Washington, however, Mr.
foe's position here will be that ot local
superintendent, while Mr. Wilson was
formerly supervisor as well as super-,
Intendent for a district comprising
most of the territory on the Pacific
Coast Mr. Coe will make this city
bis permanent home. - -
' Mr. Wilson will Tetaln his supervls-J
or's duties for at least two weeks be-,
fore leaving, and will then go direct;
to Omaha, Neb., where he will prob
ably establish his headquarters for his .
new district. He, will have the posi
tion of supervisor for the states of
Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas and Okla
Farm Credit BUI Is
Passed by House
WASHINGTON. D.C.. May, 18. The
Class rural credits bill providing for a
federal, farm loa-i lio rd and a Bye -ma
of twelve land bunks passed the hotiso
by a vote of 29S t. .10. A similar ita.-h.
ooui supervisor ana supennienaenr. u aire;tdy has passed tho senate, nu.1
and had charge of all the territory now u differences probably will bp work,
embraced In the two districts. , 'ed out soon In conference.
Little opposition was encountered by
Fort People Visit the; bUL Under its terms. the land
Miss Lelah Parks and Miss Evelyt bank would lend money to farmers at
Merrill, teachers at the Fort school. not more than Per cent Interest
James Pelton. Alfred B. Castel. Charles . tnu !1 associations, mortgages
Curns and Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Hoyt 1 runnua iro nve to tnirty-six yean,
were among the Fort Klamath people 'I'ne mortgages would be used as the
Isiting Klamath Falls yesterday. I ba8te ,or ,nn ,oaa bomd
, . ' There are many differences between
. the senate and house bills to be ad-
From Odessa.
Mr: and Mrs. J. J. Nlcolle were' in
from Odessa yesterday. Mr. Nlcolle is
one of the Arm of Nlcolle Bros., who
have the contract' for logging the
Lamm Lumber company's timber.
justed. The senat masur would vcap-.
,lialize each farm loan bank at $500.-'
000: the house's, at 8750,009. The sen
ate would authorize loan associations
Continued on Page 4
'Night in Bohemia' Shows
Klamath Talent Is Great
,
y W. o. 8.
"A Night in Bohemia." presented -
iucter a retired actor by the name of
J Edmund Keene, who Is a good Elk and
.a. thnrnilch HAhamlin AKa.... !.
last evening at the opera house for the uon for thi rtimmi. . m ,
have been made than In Phil J. Sln-
i, .,. .i 1. -in.. !-. 1 '". v. cikh, uiiiir.r me aoio ai . notr. wnosn bandiina-. nt t noi-t
ant because of the extensive oil lnte " rect,on of Ruf us K wU1 ,onK , brouKht Mm much praise from the
Cr
tftAmo Phla la' nno g9 iVta lirAal an '
most'rennonslhh, uoervlacm.hlM In.80601 ot Klamath Falls Lodge Nb,
. . .... .1 IZ47. II. I
.'.1. .ii,i.i.k i..., J;noMA.kiA ui.n.. ' remembered as one of the moat sue- audience. His nnnamnt nsn nnrt wi
to the Indian lands. cessful and pleasant ot these annual delivery would have been a credit to a
' UFTH.irH uivftn nv rnan kibtb ivmhm . iAMM .....KA .u i .-.- 1
Mr. Wilson's salary will be increased iL" 'V" T ZT'. " Z0"?-T.:
with hi new noalHon and tk chan . --."- """--" """" ""-"H " nucaingnara, a "UHlceraiH.
' - cianv ror DreBenution hv RUra iIm i.n, .. tk. - - .'vu.
Is. considered a promotion due to hlaBfft. ah' HoM, " :'Tr: 7" 'TV'! 1 "..' , .! ir SlS
!---- fviiuiij mo uuui me iinri. n wh nsn M'sBWt:,d9
M
vj. ;
Aiil
seniority in. the service.
tm
IntlVUtllftflrm 9 MlimeMiio oMUlllAliM vb.JL -.- J 1. .-li a av'a e-
--... i ""wwhvm wo nHwviww BvwiniiivB lu luu utiri,. cuiu il wu fari4nWiHi.Bsmc.BiBB t
On account of bis long residence in and musical number.. k. MmaaA ., a,. .mE
- --J II : -...I. - s a' ---. -- wmm-m ' msv -. 1 11 ej -- - -lhAT A
UIVIUU Bull IUB sUJCUIUUlalLiaB DC l-BSell In hA anAN .. 1..J. t. ... Jl..'.'. ' a.....i e. .. , . - - . i'r-' . rtTLl
4o uwiiiuK uniuun ma bbuuihuch jjubiit BBTJinntoBi '.tbbbbi ibubbii
!.& noAMAnlii skfAt mamIamu M4kia . 1 . r ,
w v.-fv.v h tmiviw wow iu- was tnrown into convulaonn of mirth 'nf .a At,,M Munarfv
. . .1 ..- , n... , ..I "7 -." "I-.-- - w--
icrcwi. in iuo oiic, atr, wiisob is not over the antlea of thn llttla tota. whit' wall h.nrilaH fcv T.irf rW .A m&tX
anxious to leave this city, although bla , heid the center of the staae. and were! he aot won n.M h. .h.raa h ai, HP&i
' 1 -" - " ' - w -T-..-- . -.!..": J'
-.. '.,.,
eeaspaay, -vW;m
ri
position is greatly bettered
transfer. He hopes that he will he
. .. 1
ey me , supported by the bla ensemble chorus
of nearly elthiv doobIb. The "Kid.
, u, rwnni 10 uregon in a row dies," without'
raonus, aner tooatng aner matters in not be considered
we new district which are said to need showed both
training, and
ting opening for the real flay,
, The story has for its principal char
evenly with the Irish eon. Mis,
tionbf "She Had Such BeaaUful
-,!!'
S5Y.1
-?JV1
'inunedlato attenUoa.
Other changes In the administra
tion of the local territory are also
SSL. aa J
,,
whom an Elks show .can .brought down, the house, and w -het- .
a real, success, ; ter than some .of the ''tl'iatoanM e; l, ! :
natural talent and fc4..tb other ar'UiUi ' ifSt" K -. ;
their featare waa a. lt-f , Mrs, Phil Sinnott adl ftaaatli -lStls ., S&
' I '' wi.it. intiy,r. ',--. -.'' T
I - . . ' ' . ! II ". -wf
, Contlnned osi PmM-A?r?. , w,;
i'.bS .'
..-. n, oY
7 -'--...mi: . . ,t
: ! . i - 'fci- ix, '1. : .,
,....", -t
