The Commoner
VOL. 16, NO. 7
Lincoln, Nebraska, July, 1916
Whole Number 687
Another Railroad
Plot
The railroads are planning another raid on
the country, and their plans are being delib
erately laid. The republican national platform
has a brief plank which reads as follows:
"The entire transportation system of the
country has become essentially national. We,
therefore, favor such action by legislation or,
if necessary, through an amendment to the con
stitution of the United States, as will result in
placing it under exclusive federal control."
There is the bold demand that the states shall
be deprived of all power to regulate, and that
congress shall have exclusive control of the
railroads of the nation within the state as well
aa interstate.
This is what the railroads have been working
for for yearsfrbut-jthey .have never before been
brave enough? to put theirlMemandsin a party,,;
platform. T, he',, republican party, under its re
actionary leadership, now dares to champion
this proposition which contemplates the re
moval of all railroad questions from the state
legislatures to the national capital. This .will
mean that each candidate for congress will havo
to get the support of the railroads or feel their
opposition. It will largely increase railroad
activity in national politics.
It so happens (?) that the republican candi
date for president fits into this scheme. He
vetoed the two cent fare bill passed by a New
York legislature while ho was governor, and he
wrote the supreme court opinion in the "Minne
sota rate case'
On another page will be found a Washington
dispatch, published in the New York Tribune,
referring to this case. One paragraph from that
opinion will be sufficient to show the attitude
of ex-Justice Hughes. He says:
"The argument that if the state rates are rea
sonable in and of themselves they can not be
objected to, and therefore the whole inquiry is
as to their reasonableness, is fallacious. The
court determines only whether rates are confis
catory and can not entertain the broader ques
tion of their reasonableness; nor can this be de
termined by any mathematical formula. Public
policy of the nation may be to permit carriers
a large return. Public policy of a state may be
to permit but a small one. In such a conflict
national authority controls."
Because the nation may want to allow HIGH
ER STATE RATES than the state, the repub
licans think the states should not be allowed to
determine these questions. Take the rate-making
out of the hands of legislators near home
and put it in the hands of legislators far from
home that is the first step; then will follow
the transfer of all railroad cases from state
courts to federal courts each move intended
to give more freedom to the railroads and to
make it more difficult for the people to protect
themselves from extortion and injustice.
This is the republican program. Against
this the democrats put the safer and more rea
sonable doctrine that "national remedies shall
be ADDED TO, NOT SUBSTITUTED FOR, stato
remedies."
The position of the democratic party as to ,
control of railroad rates was well stated "the
democratic national platform of 1908. It la as
follows:
"Wo assert the right of congress to exercise
complete control over, interstate commerco and
the right of each state to exercise llko control
over commerco within its borders."
When both state and federal govern
ment do their best the people will havo no more
protection than they need what will bo their
fate when they must await the action of curi
gress and the federal court?
The republican plan is the more dangerous
because it apparently has th unqualified sup
port of Colonel Roosevelt, but will the real pro
gressives jdin in this plot against the people?
W. J. BRYAN. '
4&
$'riXi
J ,. ". . j , r -
The contest of 1916
; .. .. w -jjv
.rHBfOUTLOIVrk
Is on, and for four
months the parties will be busy circulating lit
erature and appealing to voters Our party has
no walk away; it will not bo an overwhelming
victory, as in 1912, but the prospects are im
proving. The democratic record of achievement
is impregnable. The republican candidate has
not strengthened himself since his resignation
he has lost ground. It remains to bo seen
whether ho can regain it in tho speeches he plans
to make. "Peace, prosperity and progress" are
hard to attack. The President is growing.
IS HUGHES ANOTHER TAFT?
In estimating the value of Mr. Roosevelt's
endorsement of Mr. Hughes, it must be remem
bered that he endorsed Mr. Taft. Does he feel
as sure about Mr. Hughes as he did about Mr.
Taft? And will he be as brutally frank in ac
kowledging his mistake, if Mr. Hughes disap
points him as much as Mr. Taft did? The fu
ture has great political possibilities if we can
Judge it by the past.
3l
CONTENTS
ANOTHER RADLROAD PLOT
THE NEW REVENUE MEASURE
AMERICAN INTERESTS IN MEXICO
THE LOGIC OF CONQUEST
NOW FOR GOOD ROADS
CITIZENSHIP IN A REPUBLIC
PRESIDENT WDLSON SAYS PEOPLE
WANT PEACE
ECHOES OF THE ST. LOUIS CONVEN
TION THE STATUS QF MEXICAN AFFAIRS
THE INEXORABLENESS OF MORAL
LAW ;
SENATOR OLLIE JAMES' SPEECH
SPEECH OF JUDGE WESTCOTT
The New Revenue
Measure
The now revenue measure illustrates in a very
emphatic way tho difference between tho two
parties. The democratic party, having decided
that moro revenue is necessary, seeks to secure
it by laying tho burden on incomes, inheritance
and munition manufacturers, tho latter tho spe
cial beneficiaries of tho present war. Tho re
publicans would put tho burden on consump
tion, a method of taxation which ovorburdons
tho masses.
Tho exemption of $3,00-0 provided In tho pres
ent law ($4,000 for married persons) is not low
ered, but the basic tax of ono per cent is raised
to two, and the sur-tax is increased from a max
imum of six per cent to ten.
While these rates arc only intended to pro
yideifor,, an eraerJgpncy, they point the way 'to1
" a source which' will always be available in time
of need.
Tii0rMnH'orifancel.ta'x la resorted to for the first
time, but it is so equitable that it will at ones
be accepted by tho country and becomo a per
manent part of our financial system. Tho ex
emption of estates under $50,000, confines the
tax to those who can easily afford to pay it, and
tho rate, beginning at one per cent, rises so
gradually that it amounts to only 5 per cent
on estates above $450,000.
The objection advanced by somo that inherit
ances should be loft for stato taxation, has no
weight. It Is not double taxation for both na
tion and stato to tax tho same inheritance, be
cause they tax for different purposes. The same
piece of land is taxed by tho city, the county and
tho stato, and no ono calls it treble taxation;
why should it be called double taxation for the
state and federal government to tax the same
inheritance? And besides, tho large estates are
usually derived from corporations engaged In
interstate commerco. Tho munitions tax Is em
inently just, whether it is regarded a tax upon
an industry especially benefited by tho war ov
as a rebuke to those who, for their own pecun
iary benefit, havo tried to frighten this country
into an expensive program of preparedness.
The tariff laid on dyestuffs is a protective
tariff which, in the opinion of the President, Is
justified by the fact that the war has cut off
importations and American chemists have been
urged to experiment with a view to supplying
the manufacturers of this country with a neces
sary material.
The tariff commission pleases a- certain ele
ment and does no harm. Its tendency is to
postpone a change in rates, and that Is at pres
ent desirable.
W. J. BRYAN.
. Talk to any man who belongs to the favor
seeking, privilege-enjoying classes and he will
explain to you the importance of returning .the
republican party to power.
'a "
