ISlfl
VOL. LVII1. NO. 157
PRICE TWO CENTS
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916
16 PAGES 128 COLUMNS
- . ' - - -- . . : . 7
The Bulletin's Circulation jrwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Emphatically Denies Right of the United States to Keep
Armed Forces in Mexico
MEMORANDUM IN REPLY TO LANSING'S NOTE
j ,
Expresses Surprise That Washington Government Should
Haven Been Pained at the Tone of the Carranza Docu
ment Maintains That the United States Has Sent to the
Constitutional Government Many Discourteous and
Overbearing Notes Generals Scott and Funston Are
Accused of Bad Faith and Lack of Honor in Misleading
General Obregon Washington Officials Are Becoming
Impatient at Delay of Reply to Demands Private Ad
vices From Mexico City Indicate That a Defiant Answer
is Being Prepared Private Message Creates the Convic
tion That a Break Between the United States and Mexico
is Unavoidable.
Mexico City, June 30. The foreign
office today issued a memorandum in
reply to Secretary Lansing's recent
note, in which the correctness of as
sertions in the communication from
Washington were repeatedly denied.
The memorandum declares that the
United States had no right to main
tain its armed forces on Mexican soil.
Contains 35 Counts.
The memorandum contains 35
counts. Although not In the form of
a direct reply to the Washington note,
it is considered equivalent to an an
swer to that document. It express
es surprise that the Washington gov
ernment should have been pained at
the tone and the contents of the Car
ranza document, since it maintains
that the Inlted States has sent to
tlte constitutional government not
only one but mr.ny discourteous and
overbearing notes.
Denies Right of U. S. Troops.
Emphatically reiterating the Mex
ican government's position denying
the right of the United States to keep
armed bodies in Mexico, the memo
randum denies energetically that the
Mexican government has protected
bandits who had committed depreda
tions in the United States and defies
Washington to produce proof of the
assertion.
Scott and Funston Accused of Bad
Faith.
Elame for the Santa Tsabel mas
sacre Is placed on the so-called impul
sive and irascible disposition of
Charles Watson, general manager of
Cuslhuiriachi company; and Gener
al Scott and General Funston are ac
cused of bad frith and lack of hon
or in misleading General Obregon in
an alleged evasive reply regarding the
crossing of the American troops into
Mexico after the Glenn Springs raid.
Says U. S. Feared Huerta Was Plot
ting With Germany.
The memorandum asserts that while
It is true that the United States ar
rested General Huerta, the motive
which prompted this act was not a
purpose of aiding the constitutionalist
government but because the United
States feared that General Huerta was
plotting with Germany.
The note concludes ny declaring
that the presence of American troops
In Mexico invites rather than prevents
bandit raids along the border.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
ARE BECOMING IMPATIENT
Over Delay of Carranza Government in
Replying to American Demand.
Washington, June 30. While ad
ministration officials manifested im
patience today over the delay of the
Carranza government in replying to
the American demand for an explana
tion of its purposes, private advices
from Merico City indicated that a de
liant answer was being prepared there.
No Mexican Reply Yet.
The Btate department has had no
information as to when the Mexican
response would be sent or how it
would be transmitted. Secretary Lans
ing called this fact to the attention of
Kliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador-designate,
and indicated that he
did not understand the delay in view
of the statement in the American note
of last Sunday that an early answer
was expected. Mr. Arredondo, who
had called to announce formally the
release of the Carrizal prisoners, said
he had not heard from his government
on the subject.
Although Special Agent Rodgers at
Mexico City was informed two days
ago that he might expect to be hand
ed the Mexican note today, he has
made no mention of it in later des
puatches. Some officials believed it
possible the communication would
come through Mr. Arredondo and that
Its actual delivery would be condition
ed on the situation at the time he re
ceived it. Efforts at arranging medi
ation, favored by Carranza officials,
le-i to the belief that the reply would
be withheld at the last moment if
here seemed any chance that the
Washington government would listen
to such proposals.
Break Between Countries) Unavoidable,
The private messages, sent by per
sons in a position to speak with som
authority as to General Carranza's at
titude, expressed the conviction that a
break between the two courtnies was
unavoidable. There appeared to be
complete agreement among members
of the Mexican cabinet, it was indi
cated, that jrders to General Trevino
to attack American troops moving in
way direction except toward the bor
der be reaffirmed. Soma de facto offi
ciate Wlshad to go farther. and couple,
, with this statement In . the -Mexican
troops be witndrawn immediately from
Mexican soil.
Mexican Memorandum of Dental.
The unconciliatory character of a
memorandum published in Mexico
City, specifically denying all the al
legations of the previous American
note in answer to Carranza's demand
for withdrawal of the troops, appeared
to bear out this forecast. Intimations
have reached officials here, however,
that the de facto government may
give strong assurances in its note that
border raids will be prevented by a
strong patrol of Mexican troops, if the
United States will withdraw its forces.
It was said at the Mexican embassy
tonight that 50,000 Carranza troops
now are available for border patrol
duty.
Protest Shooting of Mexicans.
Another communication was sent to
the state department today by Mr. Ar
redondo, protesting against the shoot
ing of a Mexican customs inspector by
American soldiers stationed at Ysleta,
Texas, as reported by Mexican Consul
Garcia at Kl Paso. According to Mr.
Garcia, the soldiers fired across the
Rio Grande at two customs officers
"without any provocation whatever."
The body of the Mexican was removed
by his companion after dark, it was
said.
Cabinet Discussed Crisis.
v The cabinet had no official advices
changing the situation when it assem
bled today at a regular meeting. The
crisis was discussed and later it was
stated that no change in policy was
contemplated. Immediately after the
meeting President Wilson left to keep
a speaking engagement tonight in New
York. He will be in Washinfton again
early tomorrow, however, and should
an unfavorable reply from General
Carranza come in during the night,
will be able to take the situation to
congress before nightfall if he so de
sires. President Wilson Will Act Promptly.
There is every reason to believe that
Mr. Wilson will act promptly if the
Carranza government formally ac
cepts the construction placed on its
orders to General Trevino in Secre
tary Lansing's note and which it has
been asked either to affirm or with
draw. Mr. Lansing characterized the
order an act of deliberate hostility.
Action Not Probable Before Next
Wednesday.
How long the administration is pre
pared to wait for a formal diplomatic
statement of the de facto government's
intention toward American troops in
Mexico has not been revealed. It is
probable, however, that President Wil
son will not act before Wednesday at
the earliest unless some development
forces him to go before congress to
morrow. The house will adjourn to
morrow over the Fourth of July.
Adequate Border Force.
At the war department during the
day measures to furnish a military
force along the border adequate for
any emergency continued to go for
ward with unabated speed. A censor
ship of all official news as to move
ments of individual units of the na
tional guard was applied for the first
time, orders of similar nature having
gone out to departmental commahd
ers. Major Douglas MacArthur, engineer
corps, attached to the general staff,
assumed his duties as military aide to
the secretary and directly in charge
of all war department information
dealing with the Mexican crisis. He
issued his first official communication
as to the troop movements and depart
mental activities during the day. In
formation that might be of value to
an enemy was deleted from despatches
made public
Mobilization Satisfactory.
It was stated officially that mobili
zation of the troops was proceeding
at a rate that exceeded the expecta
tions of the general staff. Prompt
and efficient co-operation from rail
roads and merrh-""itR throughout the
ountry has eliminated confusion and
delay. It now is esumnted that the
entire force called out under President
Wilson's order of Sunday, June 18,
will be on the border within another
two weeks, armed, equipped and sup
plied for a campaign.
Framing 'Draft Provisions.
The framing of a proclamation ap
plying to the national guard the draft
provisions authorized In the resolution
adopted by congress this week, was
begun by legal officials at the war de
partment. It will be made ready for
President Wilson's signature whenever
be desides that the step is necessary.
Officials, believe -the machinerv has
been .turiifehed y congress wnderv
which. tha. whole- enrolled strength or
the -guard -ecu Id -'toe rushed QulcWy
-irWittgrtiitoKamenjJ'Antonlola,te today.
Cabled Paragraphs
Russian Ban on Drink.
Petrograd. June 30, via London, 9.13
p. m. The duma today passed the bill
permanently prohibiting the sale of
drink containing more than one and
one-half per cent, of alcohol. The
measure must be passed by the upper
house and signed by the emperor be
fore becoming a law.
of General Funston's lines became ne
cessary. Supplies Are Ample.
With regard to ordnance and quar
termaster's supplies for the army now
being forwarded to the front, it was
said officially that ample provision
has been made for all the present
force and also to care for proper re
serves. There is no shortage of small
arms or ammunition and field artil
lery can be supplied faster than men
can be trained to handle the guns. .
Considering the great distances the
troops are forced to travel to reach
the border, officials feel that excep
tional speed is being made with the
movements south. There is no in
stance, it is stated, where trains have
not been available at the time and
place they were called for and the co
operation of railroad traffic experts
With departmental quartermasters has
procured right of way for troop and
supply trains over all other traffic.
Officers of General Staff Elated.
Officers of the general staff are
elated over the success of the plans
they had mapped out for such a mo
bilization. It has been accomplished
through de-centralization of authority,
placing on each official a definite duty
he is to iperform without reference to
any higher authority and requiring
that he perform it promptly.
WILSON FOR WAR ONLY
AS A LAST RESORT
Says So in Speech at New York Press
- Club Banquet.
New York, June 30. President Wil
son made it plain in his speech at the
New York Press club tonight that he
will not countenance a war with Mexi
co until there is no other alternative
for settling the border troubles.
Again he declared" that he was ready
to sacrifice his own political fortunes
in order to carry out his convictions
as to what would be the just course
to pursue in the situation.
The president's audience, composed
of newspapermen, state and municipal
political leaders and others prominent
in public life, signified their endorse
ment of his position by repeated out
bursts of applause. When he. asked
if the glory of American would be en
hanced by a war of conquest in Mex
ico, shouts of "No ! " came from all
parts of the banquet hall. A similar
response was made to his query
whether it is America's duty to "carry
self defense to the point of dotation
into the affairs of another people."
The president dwelt also on his ef
forts to serve the whole people, thou
sands of whom, he said ,are appealing
to him to maintain peace as long as
possible.
"I have constantly to remind myself,"
eh said, "that I am not the servant
0 fthose who wish to enhance the
value of their Mexican investments, but
that I am the servant of the rank and
file of the people of the United States."
Eainbridge Colby, who placed Theo
dore Roosevelt in nomination for the
pdesidency at the progressive conven
tion at Chicago, paid President Wilson
high tribute in an address, but did not
declare unqualifiedly that he would
support him in the comnig campaign,
as it was reported he would do.
"I am a progressive," he said, "I was
one of the party's organizers. I shall
stick by the ship until it is recognized
by passengers, crew and officers alike
that it must be abandoned. I cannot
leave until the water is up to my chin.
1 will say this, however, speaking for
the rank and file, that the friends of
Woodrow Wilson in the party are
legion. The stalking horse of the na
tional committee may vote down the
resolution to leave the votes of pro
gressives to their own consciences, but
I think the actions of progressives are
to be determined and dictated by their
individual judgment and nothing else."
Presient Wilson rose from his seat
and shook hands with Mr. Colby as
he finished speaking. Later the presi
dent paid tribute to Mr. Colby's gene
rosity. Mayor John P. Mitchel, Ralph Pu
litzer and Irvin S. Cobb also spoke.
President Wilson did not begin to
speak until almost 11 o'clock
The presidential party, which in
cluded Mrs. Wilson, who occupied a
seat of honor in a balcony behind huge
American flags. Dr. Cary T. Grayson
and secretary Tumulty, left for Wash
ington at 12:30 o'clock.
RELIEF FOR DEPENDENT
FAMILIES OF GUARDSMEN
Hay Bill, With $2,000,000 Appropria
tion, Favorably Reported to House.
Washington, June 30. The Hay bill
to appropriate $2,000,000 for relief of
dependent families of national guards
men called into the federal service
was favorably reported to the house
today and will be taken up for pass
age tomorrow.
As amended in committee, the bill
provides that the secretary of war
shall distribute the fund in his discre
tion, but that not more than $50 a
month be ipaid any one family.
The committee struck out the dis
cretionary authority to "honorably
discharge" enlisted men with depend
ent families and inserted a new pro
vision that the action of the secretary
of war in enforcing that act shall be
final, and not subject to court review.
MEXICANS MAKE SEIZURES
TO VALUE OF $500,000
In Gold and Silver Bullion Belonging
to Americans.
Washington, June 30. The state de
partment was officially advised today
that gold and silver bullion belonging
to Americans and seized by local Mex
ican authorities at Manzalillo totalled
nearly $500,000. The seizures were re
ported to have begun before the Car
rizal Incident. A protest already has
been made to General Carranza,
UTAH ARTILLERYMEN
HAVE REACHED NOGALES
Were First Militia to Reach Border
Under General Call.
San Antonio, Texas, June 30. The
first of the national guardsmen to
reach the border under President Wil-
1 son's general call for militia troops
"was-tOBS Daiianon or tne Utah artil
lery that went 4nto camp at JSTogales
"llnois regiments wiU--arrive et" San
23,000 Troops
Racing to Border
RIGID CENSORSHIP ORDERED
CONCERNING MOVEMENTS
DESTINATION A SECRET
Of 50,000 in Mobilization Corps, 33,000
Have Been Mustered Into the Ser
vice of the United States Remaind
er Lack Training.
New York, June 30. The surrender
of the Tenth Cavalry troopers, taken
by Carranza soldiers in the Carrizal
encounter, will not interrupt the
movement of national guard troops to
the border, Major General Leonard
Wood, commanding the department of
Allies of the Newspapers
Did you ever stop to think of the effect the moving-picture the
ater and the popular automobile have on the value of the newspaper
as an advertising medium?
When does woman do her buying?
Is it when she is busy with or directing the preparation of the
evening meal, or while she is p laying hostess to friends or neighbors?
Is it while she is speeding through park or along suburban roads
in the late afternoon or evening in an automobile, or while she seeks
relaxation at the "movie" theater?
Woman's final decision to buy is made in the morning. Break
fast has been disposed of; the head of the house has gone to his
place of business; the children are at school or play.
This is when maid and matron read the morning newspaper at
the very time when they are free to act on any suggestion, or answer
any business appeal which is made to them through the newspaper
columns by the progressive merchant.
Remember this when you have a message to deliver to the women
of Norwich; see that it is conveyed to them by that sterling messen
ger The Bulletin.
During the past week the following matter has appear in The Bul
letin's columns:
Bulletin
Saturday,
Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Telegraph Local General Total
June 24.. 154 160 978 1292
June 26.. 137 154 206 497
June 27. . 177 124 208 509
June 28.. 155 130 155 44o
June -29. . 145 128 ' 237 510
June 30.. 170 155 170 495
938 851 1954 3743
the east, was informed today by the
war department.
General Wood received the order
over the long distance telephone. He
was instructed to continue dispatch
ing of troops according to the order is
sued June 23, which states that units
must be sent to the border as quick
ly as they are prepared.
Rigid Censorship Ordered.
General Wood also was ordered to
institute a rigid censorship concern
ing the future movements of all
troops within his jurisdiction. He
was particularly instructed to prohib
it the publication of the ultimate des
tination of the soldiers.
It was announced at divisional
headquarters tonight, however, that
the number of troops now on trains
racing to the border has increased
to 23,000. The number was largely in
creased by the reported departure of
a complete brigade of infantry and
other units from Pennsylvania.
Were 50,000 in Mobilization Camps.
According to the official reports
there were more than 50,000 troops in
mobilization camps in the department
of the east tonight. Of this number
approximately 33,000 have been mus
tered into the service of the United
States and are awaiting marching or
ders. The remainder will not be able
to leave for perhaps two weeks be
cause of lack of training and equip
ment. Ten Brigades Not Yet Mustered.
Approximately ten brigades of their
infantry and their complementary
units are yet to receive the approval
of the United States mustering offi
cers. They include two Pennsylva
nia brigades, two New York brigades,
one District of Columbia brigade, one
Maryland brigade, two Tennessee reg
iments, and one regiment each from
Florida, Mississippi, Alabama and
New Hampshire.
Captain Gordon Johnston, chief aide
de camp to General Wood, made pub
lic tonight an order discontinuing
the military training camp at Fort
Oglethrope, .Ga, and announcing that
all candidates for Fort Oglethrope
will be admitted to the Plattsburgh
camp.
Small Enrollment For July.
"Small enrollment for the July
camps at Fort Oglethorpe and the
fact that over 13.000 men are expected
at Plattsburgh have made it neces
sary to concentrate all efforts on the
latter."
DOMINICAN FACTIONS ARE
NEGOTIATING FOR PEACE.
Government Has Accepted Overtures
of the Rebels.
'Washington, June 30. American
Minister Russell, in Santo Domingo,
notified the state department today
that peace negotiations were in prog
ress between the belligerent Dominican
factions.
Overtures to the rebels led by Gen
eral Aris were made by a commission
representing the government faction.
KITCHENER'S AUTOGRAPH
LETTER BROUGHT $30,000.
Sold at Auction for the Benefit of the
Red Cross.
London, June 30. Lord Kitchener's
autograph letter calling for 300,000 re
cruits for the new army, was sold to
day at auction for the benefit of the
Red Cross to Thomas Fenwick, Harri
son for $3O,000. Mr. Harrison will pre-
eent.;-tnegIetter,t&Tthe-nation. j
Hughes Enjoyed
Talk With Taft
THEY DISCUSSED COMING CAM
PAIGN FOR TWO HOURS
WITH MRS. HUGHES, TOO
At Luncheon at the Nominee's Summer
Home Taft States He Wants to See
Hughes Elected and Will Do All He
Can to Assist Him.
Bridgehampton, N. Y., June 30.
Charles E. Hughes discussed the com
ing political campaign for two hours
today with William H. Taft. Over a
luncheon at the republican presidential
nominee's temporary summer home
here, the former president and Mr.
Hughes took up the chief issues of the
day and went over the tentative cam
paign plans. Mrs. Hughes presided at
the luncheon and participated in the
discussion.
Talked Earnestly Until Train Came In
Apparently the time was too short
for a full exchange of opinions, for af
ter the conference was over and Mr.
Taft stood waiting at the railroad sta
tion for his train, Mr. Hughes drew
him aside for a final word. They
walked put of earshot of the little
group that had surrounded them and
continued in confidential conversation,
emphasized by earnest gestures, until
the train pulled in.
Taft in Excellent Humor.
Mr. Taft appeared to be in excellent
humor as he alighted from the auto
mobile in which the nominee had ac
companied him to the station.
"I am for Judge Hughes," he said,
"I want to see him elected and shall
do all I can to assist him."
"Will you take the stump for him?"
some one asked.
"I shall obey orders," he replied.
'Monday I shall go to Murray Bay,
Canada, for three months. When I
return I shall help all I can. Perhaps,
however, it might be better for Mr.
Hughes if I were to stay quietly in
Canada until election day and then
cross over and vote for him."
Mr. Taft laughed. He was asked
again if he would make any speeches
for Mr. Hughes.
Places Himself in Class With Bryan.
"Did you ever hear of my refusing
to make a speech?" he asked. "Why,
Brother Bryan and I are the champion
long distance speakers of the world.
We are in the same class. I am will
ing to do anything that will help out."
. Mr. Taft was asked about the re
port that he would speak from the
same platform as Mr. Hughes and Col
onel Roosevelt.
"A sort of three ring circus?" ques
tioned the former president, his eyes
twinkling. "Don't you think that
would be wasting a lot of oratorical
ammunition on one audience?"
Mr. Taft had nothing to say as to
his views on political issues nor as to
a report that he might soon meet CoL
Roosevelt.
Hughes Dictates Statement.
After Mr. Taft's train had left Mr.
Hughes dictated this statement:
"I have wanted for some time to
meet Judge Taft and have an oppor
tunity of going over matters with him.
He was kind enough to come down
here and we have had a very full talk
and I enjoyed it very much."
Mr. Hughes' day, except for the two
hour visit of Mr. Taft, was devoted
chiefly to recreation. He played golf
in the forenoon, dictating letters be
tween plays. This afternoon a mov
ing picture squad spent two hours
filming the republican presidential
nominee and his family.
AUTHORITY FROM CONGRESS
TO ISSUE BONDS
To Meet Extraordinary Expenses Will
Be Sought by Administration.
Washington, June 30. Authority of
congress to issue bonds if necessary
to meet extraordinary expenses In con
nection with the Mexican emergency
will be sought by the administration
as a result of an agreement reached
today by Secretary McAdee, 'Senator
Simmons, chairman of the . senate
finance committee, and Representative
JCitohin, chairman of the house ways
m juj,cajia iujijiuilct?. t-
Condensed Telegrams
A ministry of commerce is to be es
tablished by Great Britain.
France is drafting a reply to
American note on mail detention.
the
A second Canadian war loan, prob
ably for $150,000,000, will be announced
soon.
Carrying $232,000,000, the postal ap
propriation bill was passed by the
senate.
Wife beaters at Kansas City will be
chained to a post in the main business
district.
Up to May 1, the British navy de
stroyed or captured SI German sub
marines. Harvard graduates are raising a fund
to. train undergraduates in aviation
this summer.
King George has directed parliament
to erect a memorial to the memory of
Lord Kitchener.
Production of the Ford Motor Co.
for the year ending July 31 will run
well over 500,000 cars.
A seat on the New York cotton ex
change was sold for $13,000, an ad
vance of $300 from the last previous
sale.
A report received at El Paso says
that the Argentine government has
sold ISO machine guns to the Carranza
army.
Distilleries all over the south are
operating day and night to catch up
with the consumption of denatured al
cohol. The Toledo, O., plant of the Warher
Manufacturing Co. was taken over by
the Chevrolet Automobile Co. of Flint,
Mich.
The war department is preparing to
call on private munitions manufac
turers for heavy deliveries of guns and
shells.
Germany has notified Great Britain
that the body of Major Viscount
Crichton has been - found and rein
terred. A report from Petrograd says the
duma will support the government in
providing for the permanent prohibi
tion of vodka.
Vessels for a new steel barge line
between Pittsburgh and New Orleans
have been contracted for by the Car
negie Steel Co.
Thirty-six persons were killed and
more than forty injured in a collision
between two trains at Tlainepantia,
near Mexico City.
The American Woolen Co. is re
ported to have obtained the bulk of a
contract for 300,000 yards of olive drab
cloth for the army.
Twenty-five men of the crew of the
steamer Pino of Genoa, sunk by a
submarine on Tuesday, arrived at
Port Malion, Minorca.
An advance in wages of 5 per cent.
has been granted in card room, blow
ing room, and hard waste workers by
British cotton spinners.
Admiral Winslow reported to the
navy department that a complete sur
vey of the Mexican west coast disclosed
no trace of Japanese warships.
The Paterson cadet band enlistees in
the Fifth New Jersey infantry regi
ment to replace the regular band,
which refused to take the oath.
A bill to prohibit enlistment in the
regular army or militia of youths un
der 21 years of age without parents'
consent was introduced by Senator La
Follette. Senator Overman of North Carolina
was deposited In the floor of the senate
when 'Senator Stone absent-mindedlv
pulled his chair from beneath him as
he went to sit down.
Captain H. J. Thompson of the
Canadian army was convicted at Seat
tle of violating the neutrality of the
United States in enlisting men there
ror tne VJanadian army.
Announcement was made by the war
department that members of the na
tional guard who refused to take the
federal oath cannot be discharged, but
must face a court martial.
A number of caps and articles be
longing to the ships participating in
the Skagerak battle have drifted
ashore during the past few days, Co
penhagen despatches state.
Samuel Hill of Seattle, son-in-law of
tne late James J. Hill, railroad builder,
has gone to Vladivostok at the request
of Russia to take charge of the traffic
of the Trans-Siberian railway.
H. S. Slocum, who served in the
Canadian division of the British troops
and whose death was reported on
June 24, was the youngest son of the
late J. D. Slocum. He lived on Staten
Island.
Increase of two cents per hundred
pounds in the freight rates on wood
pulp from Maryland and Delaware
points to New England was suspended
by the Interstate Commerce Commis
sion until October 29.
High Carranza officers at Chihuahua
City said it would be a "very graceful
act'! on the part of the United States
if it Would return ten machine guns
and war material captured from
Villi stas.
WITNESSED NAVAL BATTLE
SOUTH OF STOCKHOLM.
Reports Made by Steamers Arriving
at Stockholm.
London, June 1, 12.07 a. m. A des
patch to Reuter's Telegram company
from Stockholm says that steamers
which have arrived in port witnessed
a battle Thursday night 15 miles south
of Landsort, south of Stockholm.
They report that a Russian squadron
with a few torpedo boats and torpedo
boat destroyers was attacked by a
German fleet comprising cruisers and
large warships. At the outset the
Germans were unable to defeat the
Russians, but eventually reinforce
ments were obtained and it is sup
posed the Russians withdrew north
ward. The correspondent adds that noth
ing was visible from-'fhe coast of the
reported battle, owing to the fog, but
that gunfiring was heard throughout
the flight and at 6 o'clock this morn
ing a fresh and violent cannonade be
gan. V
"" ; --- - - (
Entente Allies Are Victorious in France, in Italy
- in East Galicia
FRENCH HAVE CAPTURED
Violent Bombardments Are in
British Are Keeping. Up Destruction by Artillery of
German Trenches From Ypres to the Somme Russians
Have Captured Town of Obertyn, in East Galicia
Italians Have Taken Grizo and Several Mountain Posi
tions Southeast of Trent. (
'Successes for the entente allies on
the three most important European
fronts in France, in the Italian thea
tre and in East Galicia are chroni
cled in the latest official communica
tions. The French and "British continue
their raids against the Germans in
France, the French having captured
the Thiamont work northeast of Ver
dun, and the British havign kept up
their bombardments of German
trenches and their incursions into
German positions by raiding parties.
The Russians have taken Ivolomea, an
important railway junction leading to
Lemberg, in Galicia, and the Italians
continue to advance against the Aus
trians in the Trentino region.
-The struggle for the possession of
the Thiamont work, taken by the Ger
man crown prince's forces from the
French a week ago, was most severe,
the position changing hands several
times in the incessant fighting.
Violent bombardments have marked
the fighting on the remainder of the
front around Verdun, particularly on
the sector of Hill 304.
TO PREVENT SPREAD
OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS
Warning Sent Out by Commissioner of
Health of New York. .
New York, June 30. State health
officers as far west as Illinois and
municipal health departments in all
Intermediate cities and towns were
warned today by the commissioner of
health of New York to watch care
fully children coming from this city
to prevent them from carrying infantile
paralysis into other parts of the coun
try. The step was taken as a pre
cautionary measure.
A conference of health experts was
held here this afternoon to consider
means for stamping out the disease,
which has become epidemic in some
sections of the city. It was the gen
eral belief there was no great danger
of a general epidemic.
The cases thus far have been con
fined to children.
DENIAL OF SALE OF
GRAND TRUNK
STEAMERS
War Department Has Made General
Inquiries About Them.
New London, Conn., June 30. Denial
of the sale by the Grand Trunk rail
road of the steamers Narragansett and
Manhattan to the United States gov
ernment was made today by Pres
ident E. C. Smith of the company.
It was reported that the steamers had
been purchased by the government for
use as transports at a price of $1,
000,000 each. Mr. Smith said the ves
sels had not been sold to the govern
ment or to any one else.
It is understood that the war de
partment has made some general in
quiries as to the availability of the
vessels for transport service.
ELEVEN CHILDREN ILL
WITH PTOMAINE POISONING
After Eating Food at a Sunday School
Picnic at Newport.
Newport, R. 1., June 30. Eleven
children who were taken to a hospital
because of ptomaine poisoning after
eating food at a Sunday school picnic
yesterday were discharge dtoday. At
the rectory of St. George's church it
was stated that reports indicated that
those sufferers who were taken to
their homes were recovering. State and
city health authorities have begun in
vestigations. Congressman O'Shaun
nessy wired today from Washington
that he had asked the United States
public health service also to make an
inquiry.
NEW YORK SUN SOLD
TO FRANK A. MUNSEY.
Is to Make It an Associated Press
Paper Reduces Price to One Cent.
New York. June 30. After 23 years
of unsuccessful effort to establish a
proprietary news gathering and dis
tributing organization in opposition to
the co-operative form of The Asso
ciated Press, the New York Sun was
sold today to Frank A. Munsey, a
member of The Associated Press, and
on Monday next will no longer try to
gather its own news and will receive
the service of the dominant organiza
tion. The price of the Sun will be
reduced to one cent.
$75,000,000 MORE TACKED
ON TO ARMY APPROPRIATION
Additions Tentatively Agreed on by the
Senate Military Committee.
Washington, June 30. Additions to
talling $75,000,000 have been agreed on
tentatively by the senate military com
mittee to the $1S2, 000,000 army appro
priation bill as it passed the house.
Members of the committee sadd today
that appropriations made necessary by
mobilization of the national guard and
army reorganization might run the
aggregate up to $275,000,000.
In 1914 this country manufactured
$2,7L3,7S2 worth of pins. - --
and
THE THIAU MONT WORK
Progress in the Verdun Sectors
The British are keeping up their
tactics of destroying by artillery fire
German first and second line trenches
from Ypres to the Somme. Unofficial
ly, it is reported that the 'British are
expending over a million shells a day
in this work.
In addition to the capture of Kolo
he, the Russians also have taken the
town of Obertyn, northeast of Kolo
mea, and several other villages north
and south of that point.
On the front in Russia, from the
Galician border to the region of Riga,
there have been battles at various
points, but with no decisive results.
The Italians have taken Grizo and
several mountain positions southeast"
of Trent. Their advance against tha
Austrians also has resulted in tha
capture of nearly a thousand prison
ers, as well as stores of arms and
munitions. Vienna claims only the re
pulse of attacks in this 6ector.
An unofficial report of a battle be
tween Russian and German squadrons
in the Baltic sea south of Stockholm
on Thursday has been received In
London from Stockholm.
SHOT THREE MEN IN
A BRIDGEPORT SALOON,
Joseph La Salle Claimed One of th
Men Had Held Him Up.
Bridgeport, Conn., June 30. Joseph
La Salle, aged 19, of New York, Shot
three men in a saloon here tonight,
then jumped into a passing automobile
and after frightening out all the occu
pants except the Chauffeur, pressed his
revolver against the driver's head ana
ordered him to put on all speed. The
chauffeur did so, but drove the car into
a curb, wrecking it. aL Salle held a
big crowd at bay with his gun for a
considerable time, but "finally quietly
surrendered to a policeman.
La, Salle said he shot the men be
cause George Flynn, one of them, had
beaten him last night after he had
held up Flynn and robbed him. In ex.
planation of the holdup, La Salle said
that Flynn had beaten him in a gam
bling game a short time previously. -
La Salle will also be charged, witl(
John Keating of New York, with hold
ing up a trolley car crew here a weeH
ago. Keating was arrested a 6hort
time before the shooting affray. Mil
dred Brown, aged 15, of New York, it
another prisoner in a complication o
charges against Keating and La Salle,
iNone of the wounded men was seri
ously injured.
CONNECTICUT TROOPS
AT TRENTON, MO,
Men Took a Breathing Spell Whtt.
Train Stopped 45 Minutes.
Trenton, Mo., June 30. The troop
train carrying the Second Connecticut
Infantry to the 'Mexican border mada
a stop of 4'5 minutes here tonight and
the soldiers took advantage of the op
portunity to exercise. The townspeo
ple took a number of the men on
short automobile rides and showed
them other courtesies.
The heat was excessive today and
the guardsmen were glad of the oppor
tunity of a "breathing spell." Through'
this section of Missouri the speed of
the train was limited to 20 miles an
hour, due, it was reported, on account'
of the 'Mexican section hands working
alcng the road. The Mexicans were
stolid and did not return the saluta
tions of the men. No sickness was
reported on board.
PRESIDENT WILSON URGED TO
INTERCEDE FOR CASEMENT.
Has Received Telegrams from All
Parts of the Country.
New York, June 30. before leaving
Washington, the president received
dozens of telegrams from all parts of
the country urging him to intercede
with the British government in an ef
fort to save the life of Sir Roger Case-,
ment, sentenced to death yesterday for
treason. i-
Mr. Wilson conferred with Secre
tary of State Lansing in regard to the
question and they considere what
steps could be taken with propriety in
behalf of Sir Roger, but no decision
was reached before the president left
for New York.
FORMAL INQUIRY OF
GERMAN GOVERNMENT
About Punishment Inflicted on Sub
marine Commander.
Washington, June 30. The state de
partment is preparing to make a for
mal inquiry of the German govern
ment as to what punishment was in
flicted upon the submarine commander
who torpedoed the channel steamer
Sussex. An informal inquiry through
Ambassador Gerard has brought no
response. v
Movements of Steamships.
Liverpool, Pune 2S. Sailed: Steam- 1
er Celtic, New York. , .
Genoa, June 24. Sailed: Steamer i
Stampalia, New York.
London has 73,500 miles of overhead ?
telegraph and telephone wires and ' '
921,000 jniles of underground. jj
