I
THE WEATHER
tin.
Fair to-dy and pn
IT SHINES FOR, ALL
gentle
Highest temper
Detailed weather,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 305.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916. Copyrlpht, I'Jld, ly Hie ,S'im Printing and PubUshlitp Ataochtton,
PRICE TWO CENTS.
To the Readers of The Sun
.
The control of The Sun and The Evening Sun passed into my
hands yesterday through my purchase from Mr. William C. Reick
of his interest in these properties.
Coincident with the closing of this transaction, The Sun bought
The New York Press from me for the purpose of combining the two
papers. The amalgamation will take place with Monday's issue of
The Sun Monday, July 3 when The Press will be merged with
it. The name of the amalgamated paper will be The Sun. It will,
of course, be necessary to carry the name of The Press in a conspic
uous place for a brief time.
The (remendous advantage of this merger to The Sun can be
appreciated only by newspaper men. Through it The Sun secures
a morning franchise in the Associated Press, and there is no other
possible way to secure such a franchise except through the purchase
of a newspaper owning one.
Through a mix-up that occurred some years ago, when the
Associated Press was reorganized, The Sun did not associate itself
with all the other morning papers of the town in the reorganization,
As a consequence, ever since then it has been compelled to gather
its news alone and at a vast annual expenditure in excess of the
cost of receiving it through the Associated Press.
Moreover, it is not possible for a single newspaper to compete
in news-gathering with the Associated Press, which is the peerless
news gathering organization of all the world. With the Associated
Press franchise which The Sun secures through this merger, it will
be equipped for better work so far as concerns its news service than
at any time in its history better than in the old days when it was
a member of a press association, because the Associated Press of
to-day is incomparably better and bigger than any previous news
gathering organization.
But the gain of The Sun through this merger is by no means
confined to its acquisition of an Associated Press franchise. It
gains as well the good will and circulation of The Press, which is
now 135,000 net cash paid on week-day issues and 143,000 net cash
paid on a Sunday, and the best of it is that this circulation of The
New York Press is largely right here in the city itself.
The price of The Sun will be reduced
to one cent
Beginning next Monday, the price of The Sun will be reduced
to one cent in the one-cent newspaper zone that is, in Greater
New York and its nearby communities, where other important
morning newspapers sell at one cent. This move will put The Sun
on an even footing with its competitors, all of which, with the ex
ception of The Herald, sell at the one-cent price.
Surrmed up, the acquisition of an Associated Press franchise,
and of the good will and circulation of The New York Press, and the
reduction in the selling price of the paper to one cent, form an epoch
of no mean importance in the history of The Sun.
The Evening Sun, conceived and started in 1887 by as brilliant
a corps of newspaper men as any American newspaper has ever had,
now occupies a very splendid place in the journalistic world. It has
come to be the vogue among evening newspapers. In character
and quality, and the esteem in which it is held by the substantial
citizenship of the community, it has no rival in its field to-day, save
The Evening Post alone. Its net paid daily circulation is now verg
ing on two hundred thousand, and it has won an advertising patron
age that places it in a very strong position.
Very great credit is due Mr. Reick for the fine development of
The Evening Sun since it came under his control. I know of no man
who has done a better and sounder piece of newspaper work at
any time, in New York or elsewhere, than Mr. Reick has done on
The Evening Sun.
In taking over these two newspapers, I do so with full apprecia
tion of the responsibilities that come with them. I have a keen
realization of the great past of The Sun, and the unique and incom
' parable position it achieved under the direction of that master
journalist, Mr. Charles A. Dana. His work was an inspiration
and an uplift to all journalists throughout the length and breadth
of the land. .
But no man can make a worth-while imitation newspaper.
If Mr. Dana himself were alive and editing The Sun, he would not
imitate any past performance. A newspaper must be of the period,
the dav, the hour, the minute. The man responsible for 1 he Sun
in the present and in the future, while holding to the best traditions
of the past, must square it to the conditions and requirements of
to-day must put into it his own thoughts, his own convictions, and
his own analysis of the times and everyday issues.
Mr. Reick will remain with the organization, and Mr. Edward
P Mitchell, who served The Sun so long as its chief editorial writer
under the great Mr. Dana, will still be at the head of the editorial
department. And many of the old . Sun men, who are steeped
through and through with Sun traditions, will remain with us, I
hope, and continue to give you that inimitable bun flavor and finish
that you find in The Sun alone.
FranK A. Munsey.
FRENCH REWIN
THIAUMONT IN
FURIODS FIGHT
Germans Reenter the Field
Work; hut Are Driven
Out Again.
lUUTISH PIERCE
TEUTONS' sriTUKT
WILSON'S CHIEF
AIM FOR U. S.
TO AVOID WAR
Tells Press Vkih Diners
Verdict of Nov. 7 Mat
ters Little.
GEN. CARRANZA DEFIANT;
REPL YMAYCA USE BREAK;
WILSON FIRM AG AINST WAR
CARRANZA INSISTS ARMY
HAS NO RIGHT IN MEXICO
J WOULD LEAVE HIS
I IIECOKD TO NATION
Foreign Relations Department Accuses the American
Government of Misstatements About Bandit Raids
Arguments to Keep Troops In Are Weak.
Russians Press On Take
Ohertyn, 15 Miles North
oast of Koloiuca.
Approves of Preparedness,
Which Will Safeguard
National Honor. '
i
Indication of the coordination of
the Allies' military efforts nre seen In
the report from tho various front
yesterday.
The French force nt Verdun as
sumed the offensive and lifter some
very heavy llfjhtmg recaptured the
"armored fortress of Thlaumont," as It
has been called In the German state
ments. The position, originally a farm
flunked with redoubts, has been turned
Into a labyrinth of trenches and field
works.
Ilrltlsh raids niyalnst the German
front continued on n large scale. Tho
Mexico Cirr, June CO. - A statement I eminent on various occasions liaa
was given out to-day by Korean Mln- nkL'11 tll' not remain there.
iui 4n..n.- i . . ...!.. ur own citizens had to suffer
Ister Agullars department setting , ft (,(lt dP(ll on accmmt Qf acUla,
rorth Its views In regard to the reply , v, unions It Is not Just that for-
of the United States tti the Mexican ligners Hhould pretend und expect to
note requesting- the withdrawal of the b 'mniu'";"
i,..i..,. .. ..... 1. 1.. 11.1 Tho chief or manager who lost
American punitive expedition. h,H ,lf( ,n , cn,nmy nt ,,, yal)e,
The statement Is given out In ad- , nd who wns In charge of the Amerl
vance of the note which Cnrrunza Is ; cans his name was Charles Watson
soon to send to the I'nlted States in ! persisted In making the disastrous
i IpIii n 1 1 liiitt frit rAi lnrilnt.. tl T...il
and harassment-, of his Job and come rrI" 'inland that ho state his ( mmtary commander of the Slate of
to New Yotk for n few light hours of i Intention, and the request for a din- Chlhuahui, advised him of the dan-
First Chiefs Note Itvnorlcit1
to He llelligeiciit in
4 I
K
To
At JAIN DEMAND
HECALL OF TROOPS
Trevino Order to Attack
Not to 15c Disavowed.
Is Hint.
It is possible even fur a President'
caught between the wars of a world and I
about to put his own fortunes to tho
test to take a night off from the worries
AllKEDONDO URGED
TO HURRY THE REPLY
l.iiiKhtt r
It was that h.i) w ill Woodrow Wilson
last night when he iut at dinner In the
Waldorf-Astoria as the greatly honored
guest of tho New York Press Club.
Within the limits of bis dignity and his
characteristic restraint he thoroughly
enjoyed hlmolf When he ltft at mid
night to go aboard his train for Wash
ington It seemed Indeed that there were
fewer fllrrmvs In lirnw. thnt his fnee
neavy artillery nre continues an aiong . )ni a happier last.
the line. Indicating that at last the -Mr. v non ts nut so sportive in ins : t0 gay tno easl
,, , , , . , -i .. . . infrequent Hours or relaxation as s .Mr. '
Ilrltlsh ore preparing for serious oper-1 u,)0m.ti .., or Mr. ryan or .Mr. I4 Mollclil Km,u
ntlons. I Tuft. Hut It was .ulte obvious that
Tho Itusslan offensive continues to
I avowal or lien. Trevino s warning to , Ker and risk that lie and his oom
! Gen ivrshlnr- i patilons weie running In travelling
Gen. I'ershlng
Tho text of the statement follows:
"It seems strange that tho Depart
ment of State should show surprise
and disappointment far tho tone und
character of tho note of tho 22d of
May, which it calls discourteous, when
the very same Department of Slate
has sent to the Constitutionalist Gov
ernment not one but many notes not
through a dangerous region.
"Watson did not want lo wait un
til an escort could be furnished for
the train and ns he was a man very
Impulsive und always desiring to lin
poso his authority ami possessing a
very !ad temper his own tempera
ment carried him to his doom, together
with the ret of his companions.
"These facts are well known In III
Paso nnd lu nil that legion. It Is n
President (Jets Flood of
Telegrams Urging Him
lo Keep Peace.
only discourteous but al.-o haughty, . fnct that the American military nu
In onv ima innul '.. ... . .. . , r-
iinoriues anu me same American unv
eminent could not deny that Gen. Ga
! v!n frnm thn sixth div of March nntl.
be warmed to the Mtirerc and hearty' JJuring ine samo period to winch : ,fea them that he had been ndvlsed
I irleellni? tint 110(1 member,, of the Press
sweep on In soutlurn Gallcla. Oen. ijl(b and their guests c.tve htm and that
Hrusllorrs troops have captured Ober- '' 'M'reciated the numerous graceful
manifestations of respect ami admlr.i
tyn. ilfteen miles northeast of Kolo- ,, ,,,, ,va, 10 ch,t. KUr of ., dI1.
Important rallwjy centre, wier party, which was vastly more In-
Husslans ' "'resting mm iiinuxnig man wie common
lull tit tiuuui: iiifuv in, urp nitii nrui;
mea, nn
fnoillclal
reports say the
have already entered Kolome.i.
The Italians are gaining considerable i
headway In their counter offensive in
the Trentlno. Heavy fighting Is also
developing on the Isonzo front.
the noto alludes 140 Mexicans have
1 been murdered In United States terri
tory by American citizens, and the
fame Government authorities have
also participated, although tho two
countries wero at peace, und In none
of theso cases, although representa-
' tlons havo been made to the Depart
ment of State through our Minister at
that Villa, lending a band of maraud
ers, wns on his way t the frontier,
going through Palomas,
"This notice, given in ample time,
i.liould hnvo prepared the Amerlcnn
authorities for the oncoming danger
on account of the presence of Villa at
r.ilomns and Columbus.
"The American authorities also
know what were tho hostile Intentions
of Villa against the United States.
TIIIAUMOXT AG A IS
l. FRKSCH HASDS
deold of platitudes and dull phrases.
Would Keen Out of Wnr. Washington, have the guilty ever been
Throuchout bis st.ecch 'he itemed to brought to Justice or punished.
dwell with most insistence upon the lm- ineso acts nave oeen committed by Tip. Constitutionalist Government,
Iterative necessity of keeping the country 1 Americans In American territory or by I frnm the moment It heard of the Villa
out of ar--out of war with Mexico, out Texan-Mexicans ngalnt tho lives and J movement and right after the attack
iu mm .,M,...u,, nun Him interests or soma Americans. Tn . iw.min, nn CKinmiiiK r.t-.wrf
Government of Mexico cannot be held . that 1.500 men under the command
II siriiiiu ('outlier Attack They
tin III e l.erninii' AKru.pt to
llelnke It,
of wnr with nnybojy. When h. told
the press Club folk that lm receives
constantly thousands of letters from lh
humble and oliscure. from the muthers
and the fnthets of the country, appeal-
i lug to him to prevent war, and that
responsible for those nets which have
taken place In foreign territory and
which should bo charged to the na-
nmienls in nreent nar nre oouretl into i tlonals of either country.
'his ears wherever he goes (the englner "Besides, the American Government
. that
or lien, i.uis nuiiierrcz unmim marcn
nt full speed to the northern region of
the Ftnte of Chlhunhua to pursue the
bandits who, nfter committing outlaw
nets In a foreign territory, were re
turning to their own country.
uutk nu the llL'ht bank of the Mi UK'
win retaken by the French In un assault '
I at 10 o'clock this morning. In the after
noon the (lermaiis made repeated efforts
ti iccover thi' puMtlim and at one time,
clout 3 o'clock, succeeded lu reentering
tht work, but an hour and a half later
th.o French through a strong counter,
uttack were again In complete posses-
slon. '
The fortified position on tho Tblau- .Yi. i'
Mill. Ilanil
Is of public
. of his train spoke to m in that was, mini wns well awnro of all these facts be
In mm 1 ei.foril.1 V 111 Phll.nlllih'n I h. - - .. .. .-. .... .. .. .
... i , ... ,ore recognizing me ..oiiHtuiillonaiLsi
, i,i,'r tif,ixitrh ioTiik si i appeared lo be more Intense, more em- rjnvernment und It now nmienrs lrrele.
Jne 3 -The Thlaumont field PhMlc. than In any other part of the .0? nlTto X' M
1 oriel auurej, -----
I'erh.ins another linnortam eharae- Jorwaru mi as to m.iKe a naso lor
terlstlo of tho speech was the humility nn unjustified refusal to withdraw the I started and thnt the marauder bands
of his expressed attitude. Once more he American lriops from our territory. were soon scattered,
s.ild with nil positlciicss that he rec- "It Is not true that tho -Mexican "it s a gratuitous Imputation of the
ognlzes that the power of the nation Government or Its authorities pro- ' American Government that the Con-
omit from the bottom, iir.d that lie t,.cted or covered thn criminals whn ! ...1. nn,.i,,i,m.ni m,t .ins.
Scattered,
It Is of public knowledge that
prosecution of Villa was Immediately
mont farm, known recently In the
French communliiufs as thn "ouvrago
Thlaumont." was captured by the Ger
mans after long continued and often re
peated attacks on June 1'3.
Tho attack had been begun by the
(ieimiiu artillery the night before with
n heavy bombardment of the whole
French lino from the Meuse to Moulaln- J
,lc, at the foul of tho Meuse. The 1
Infantry attack which followed at about j
& o'clock on the morning uf June 2.1,1
,-fter suffering several repulses with I
enormous looses, tin. illy won the field
work ami with It Frein.li first line
irmches on either side as far as Hill
S21 to the northwest, and Hill 320 to thu
Hiulheast, u front of sumu ." kilometers
I 3 miles)
That night the French recaptured most
of the terrain lu the region of I lie two
hi. Is and drove I he (leriuans back to the
edge of the Held work. The foil wing
nn rnlug the Germans pushed on to the
village of Fleury, occuplng part of the I
Ullage. The force used by the Crown
Prince In thn attack on the Thlaumont
line wns estimated at ino.ouo men, and
the losses sustained by the attackers, ac
cording to French olllclal and uiiolllclal
I ( ports, were extraordinarily heavy. The
Hltuatl.it has remained until this morn
It, g's attack much the same as the
operations of June 23-:.-i left It, with
tho French holding the Importnnt hills
321 and 32n, one on each side of the
Hi Id work, so thnt the Germans were
under n Hanking tire from both sides.
JUDGE CARSON NOT DIVISIBLE. !
1
1
IIim's Friend May it tiet .!
d ill I1.11 t-lienr rill's llepiirtmr lit,
..mi i.miton June 30, lly n process
departmental mathematics the pur
P'ce of Itepn enliitivn liny, chairman
f lloiisi l lltary XfTairs Counnltter,
'o create u beiih In Die Department of
he Adjiitant-i leneial of the Army for
hU friend Judge ('arson of the Philip
Mm Is to be del.i)d for a year, If not
iW'iitcd. Mr Hay evidently overlooked
i n. general reulrement that the In
in,ifH should be spread as far as prac
II' ii.ln over a period of five years.
Tim Judge Advocate General, Inter
In ling the law. decided that ns two
"il'inels were lo I'h appointed In Hvft
jears, only two-fifths, of a colonel could
b iii'polnted llin Mist car. Manifestly
IW'i-tlftlis of a col . pel Is less than hulf
olnnel, therefnro no appointment can
I- made until Hie rerond year, when
'r'ir. fifths of a colonel will be nuthnrlxed,
'"'ir-flfths being construed as n whole,
rnlonrla not tielng divisible.
Kn Judge Cat son cannot n appointed
until tho second year.
BRIDE TRIES TO ENLIST.
Ilnsban.1
Arrested With Yonnit
Arter Trylnic to Be Soldier.
RlNoitAMTov, N, V.. June 30. Mrs.
Mary Uopez. who is 19 years old and
says her parents live at 736 Rast 137th
street, New York, was arrested hero to
day nfter she hud tried to enlist with
her husband, John Iopes, In tho First
Iteglniont reserve company. Inpez and
Thomas Murthn, who accompanied the
couple from New York, was nlso cr
restid. ,
Ixipez, giving his address ns 300 Last
143d street, nnd Murtha n-tlstcrlng from
107 Holmes avenue sny that they tried
to enlist at the Twelfth Iteglment
Armory In New York on Wednesday.
Thn girl to whom Iopcz was engaged
wouldn't let him go without her, so they
were married. Sho then put on one of
her husband's suits and went with him
to HufTalo on an Kile freight train.
When Mrs. I.opez learned at the
nrmory hern that she would have to be.
examined by a medical Inspector she
confessed that sh waa masquerading.
J. G. BENNETT .SELLS YACHT.
I.) slut rnlii Is I'lirchnsed by (ha
Hussion Hcil dross.
Sprd'il i'nlilr Drtpalch In Tint Scs
I'AIIIH, .III 111 30. Jnmes Gordon lien
nett h.is sold t lio yacht Lyslstratn to
the Itiissliin Heil (!ros for a higher
price than he had paid for It sixteen
years ago, which Is Illustrative of the
high price of all ships. Mr. Dennett
ptopoees 10 go lo New York soon,
uyslstrat-i wns tho la west American
owned He.un yacht and (he I'irgest ves
sel used for pleasure with the exception
of tho royal achls. Hlie was built from
designs by Die lata George I,. Watson
by Denny A Ilros. at Dumbarton, Scot
land, In I90n, Her general dimensions
aio 30t feet over nil length, 2r. feet
water line, 3!) feet 11 Inches beam, 13
feet depth and in feet draft,
Tho lliisslan Jled Cross hava for soms
lime been purchasing large yachls, It
recently secured tho Josephine owned hv
the Wldener estato and tried to buy
Howard Gould's Niagara and A. C. Uur-
rage" Astvc,
A
fresh Attnck llxpecled
partlculaily Intense , hnmbanlinaut
In the Hols da Fiimln and !o Clieuols,
the former west ami the latter south or
tho Fort de Vaux. Is reported to-night,
suggesting the probability that the Ger
mans nre preparing ror nnother attack
In these sectors.
Thn olllrhil cnmmiinlciue inmi'd ny
tho French Wnr Olllru to-night follows:
On the left bank of the Meuse the
bonibaiilmeiit contlmud In the region
of Hill 304 without Infantry actions.
On the tight hank the lighting was
terrific all day In the region of Thl.iu-
mont. This morning about 10 o'clock,
In the course of a very brilliant at
tack, our troops captured the Thlau
mont Held nork In spite of barrier (It o
of extreme violence throw 11 out by the
enemy. In the afternoon th Germans
multiplied their efforts lo drive us out
mid suffered 1 onsnleiabl" losses. In
the courM" of their iittemptH one enemv
attack was able to leenter the posi
tion about 3 o'clock this afternoon,
but n vigorous counter attack reelmed
to us complete si.-seh.slon of Hie work
nt t ;30 o'clocu.
The bombaidment was particularly
Intense In the Hols dn Fumln and l.e
Chcnols.
The German offensive on the west
bank of the Meuse between the llols
d'Avocourt and a isilnt somewhat to
the east of Hill 301, which has shown
considerable activity for some days, de-
eloped last night Into a nuinbir of very
violent attacks on this wlioln front, pre
coded by lnlene iiitlllcry preparation
and nrcoinpnntcd by thn use of fliimlne
lhiulds.
The French fire broke all the German
attacks west of Hill 301, To tlin
east of the hill tho uttnekers selred .1
fortified position, tho defenders of
which had been, as the communique Is-
holds himself lo be merely the servant
of the people. Occasionally his mood
flared up sharply, an when after putting
the question :
"Do ou think the glory of America
would be enhanced by ,1 war of conquest
mid heating a great shout
tie odilcd '
1 am not the servant of thne whn
wish to enhance the value of their Mexi
can Investments, but the servant of the
rank and llle cf the people'"
A little later he asked. "Do ou think
that any net of violence by a powerful
nation like this against a weak and dis
tracted neighbor would lellect distinc
tion upon the annals uf the I'tilted
States" Do ou think that It Is our
duty t" carry self-defence to the point
of dictation In the affairs of nnother
people?"
Some Tliliiit WIImiii Henri,
From Italph Pulitzer the President
beard an extremely witty speech, deal
ing mostly with i' e reasons that will be
advanced by men opposing the Presi
dent's teelectlon. From Mayor Mltchel
he heard certain funibinient.il American (
Ideals it-died In something of his own
style. From Irvln Cobb ln had the luck
to hear n darky t-tory told as It should ;
be told, and a few episodes of the great '
war such as seldom get Into print Fiom 1
Itrfinhlldge Colby he iecelcil the as-;
surance that lite rani; ami llle or the 1
Piogresslve part.x weie not mlndc! lo I
obey Its "stalking hoise national com-,
mlttee," but would support him, the
President.
And In return for these offerings of wit
and humor and eliuerlty he gave them a
twenty minute epeech of rather unusual
character.
He committed himself to nothing save
the broadest devotion 10 Ills country and
to humanity. He found It Impossible
or IncNpedlent to discuss with any di
rectness the present day Issues such us
the possibilities of war with .Mexico or
our relutlous with the belllgetents of
Kurope. He approved generally of the
sort of prejiai edness which would safe
guard national honor and territory, but
lm omitted to discuss preparedness pro
grammes or to take up any deluils of
army and navy extension,
It was a very human speech, with
Mr. Wilson baring his heart (or so It
seemed) to those whom ho described as
Interpreters of public opinion. And per
haps the highest note he struck at any
time was his emphatic pronouncement :
"And so, gentlemen, I am willing,
no matter what my personal fortunes
ntry be, to play for the verdict of man
kind Personally, It matters little what
the verdict will be on the 7th of No-
vember If 1 get the verdict of a later
Jury."
The President's Speech.
The President's address was as fol
lows :
"Mr. Toaslmnsler. Mr Mayor, Gentlo
men of the Press Club, Ladles and Gen
tlcmen . I realize that 1 have dono a
wry Imprudent thing. I havo come to
address this thoughtful company of
men without any preparation whatever.
"If I could have written us witty a
speech as Mr, Pulitzer I would have
written It. If I could have written as
1 leu r nn enunciation of the funda
mental Ideals of American patriotism as
the Mayor I should havu attempted It.
"If 1 could have been ns appealing n
person nnd of lis feeling a heart as Mr.
Cobb I would hive felt safe, If 1 could
have been as generous and Interesting
and genuine as Mr. Colby I should have
Washington-, June 30. The Mexunn
sltuutlon was as uncertain to-night a?
It has been nt any time since the cal
wa Issued for the inllltla. On the on
hand the Intimation cJme from thn
State Department that If the expected
nolo from C.irian.i benis out the un
favorable forecasts fr.nn Mexico city,
trouble will piohably result.
On the other hand, some of the Pres
ident's advisers persist In saying that
he Is determined nt alt hazards to pre
vent a break. Tho latter leferred with
emphasis to the hundreds of tclcgrami
that have leached the White House
from all parts of the country urging
a peaceful ioui.se. They Insisted tho
country nt large would applaud a re
fusal on thu President's part to permit
the I'nlted States to be drigged Into
war with Mexico.
Contributing to the uncei lulnty ia
the delny nn the part of the Carriiuzu
Government in following ip Its release
of the American troopers with a formal
rrply to the second American note,
which not only demanded tho release
of these men, but 11N0 demanded :i
diilnllc and early statement of C.ir
nmy.i's future course with r.spect to
the warning to American troops lu
Mixlco not to move In any direction
except northward.
The tension was pol relieved to-duy
wneti tiiioillciiil tiewspaper summaries
11 a iiieiiior.iiniiim issueii i,y the Car-
I i;ui?.u Government in Me.co City 111
j. 1 reply to the American note 11
are claimed to have committed these us to end these Incursions or to pun
depredations and crimes in territory 1 ish the gulltv for ihe ciimes com-
of the United States. This can nover ! mlttcd
tue proved by the American Govern- "it s nn established fact that the in- i 1'i'iy to the American note of .lun,.. in
j merit. 'cldent at Parral was precipitated by legardlng the presence of I'nlted Stales
' "The Constitutional Government has 1 the Imprudent net of the American forces on Mexican s, i were 1 evolve I
done all In Its power nnd has gone 1 commander, whn entered the town 1 In Washington. Ieiii!ig various
, beyond all efforts to protect the for- when he was well aware thnt the Con- statements made m .Mr. Lansing's com-
elgners. who nre to bo blamed to a rtltiltlonul Governnn nt never gave hint I mtinicition, riiter.it. ng the Ciiirnnz.i
great extent for persisting In remain- permission to enter or for the presence
I ing in places where conditions were
not normal, although their own Gov-
I'miflilio d ihi .rromf Prt'je
FIRST MEXICAN VERSION
GIVEN OF CARRIZAL FIGHT
Col. Rivas, in Charge When Gen. Gomez Fell. Blames
Americans U. S. Troops Killed 40 Carranza
Promotes Surviving Officers.
Continued on Flth Page.
eeinl 1'iiMt letp'ifcA In Tin M -Mexico
Citt, July 1 Gen. Trevino
sends the following report of I. lent. -Col.
Genovevo Rlv.is concerning the Cardial
tight:
"l have the honor of leporttng for
our superior lufoi m.itluu that on the
21st Instant at 7 A M .in Ainemvn
force composed of elgbtv to a hundml
men came up. I went lo confer with
the chief of that force upon orders fioni
tense for two limit tin- enemv hold. tig
to h.. ilrst line of i oinb.il with valor.
"Gen Gomez was killed nt tlrst lire
and 1 ussumid general command "f the
forces, ordering an advance of the llrst
sqiiiidrn.i of the Second iteglment around
the right Hank of the neiny and the
I'll --t Iteglment aioiind thu left ll.tuk.
T 'i movement was sudden and preclee,
link. tig the nielli. lice III l. I II f II -1 11,
leaving their dead with their hoises atul
.U Ills
"We look iweutv-two pnoners and
llle I iieiiii i, si i,,,- itiiii-H, I'll .'ill i
(Jen. reux v. donier. aim isk ine ii.hhi pin we n.iu ine mimw ii,k Kiueu . nen
what was the object of his approach. 1 v- Gomez, r.ipi. I'liuu'l-i'ii limit I-
i ,i i , KIICZ. I.ietlt I l.ltllel li,ll I'l.l, I. lout l'.V.IiiSlo
"Upon speaking vvllh him he said he ; Mart s ,,,, ,.,.,.,,
was seeking n band of bandits which ( s,.r(.t. Jose Vazcuez, Corp Juan Armijo
had passed in that, direction. Then I
told him theie weie no bandits in that
region, which was thoroughly watchid
over by ConstltutlnnallMs. He then said
he was going to Villa Ahuni.ida lo eeek
a deserter. 1 answered that I had
orders not to permit the advance of the
Americans except In a northwardly dl-
, I'oip Valenle Anneiiilar z, Corp. Angel
Torres, Corp, .Io--e liej. llano, Col p,
! l.e, hi. mln riores. Corp Auniin lXudl
mle ' lie reported llle n. lines of iwiuty
' soldiers.
'The wounded weie i 'apt Paiilki llus.
I Ills. ('apt. J ll.ll eiaitle, I. lent. I .'lis
1'1'ires, l.leut. Antonio I'en.i, l.leiit Mar
!os ltenintidti Second I.ietlt. llnuMo
rectton. He said this did not matter to Pailllln, Second l.leiit Alfiedo S iblana,
him, us he had orders lo march to Villa second l.leiit. I'liuno V. Ileinnudez,
Ahunuida and would dn so In face of I Second l.leiit. Jose It. Yillcgas." lie also
Are. I ii'iuirted the names of nine sei m-aiits,
"Gen, Gomez, having received ni ie- i (our coiJora. twenty. one soldiers
r'niiflNHiif on ,ol Piiiic.
(Ill TO ('ANAPA THIS NUMMKH.
Thrnush sleeping csr lo Ihe lltshlun'li nf
Ontsrlo lenv" .vevv rnrs nutnur, utiiii I
Arrives MiiakokH Whsrf nxt
IhKu Valley iwilrosa. Atv-
M.
sfltrnoon.
port of the Interview with the Aineilean
leader, went out, personally lo Interview
tilm, asking the same question and re
ceiving the same answer as mself.
"Gen. Gomez told him be would regiet
exceedingly any cnnillct betvvien tiulr
forces, proposing that the American
leader wait sonic tluee hours while
Gomez telegraphed to tin, milltaiy com
mandant at l lllllilil .lll.lien u. seine till i and live other olfl
question or Americans neing auoweu to , ,lu. ,.arraal tight tor
miss to Villa Ahiim.ida
"To this the overheating Aineilean
chief replied he did not cine lo lose any
morn time and would walk over the
Mexicans If necessary Gen Gomez
answered that ho might march ahead if
lie thought lie was able. Then Gen
Gomez and we who escorted him In- l
stlllltly retired to whole our forces weie i
"American leader did likewise, going i
to bis forces and ordering his horses 1
chained UP. and with bis cavalrv i foui
advanced In skirmish formation Ipon mil
forces, cotnsised of Second, Third,
and Fourth squadrons of the So oml
Iteglment, who remained nioiinte 1 ml
..... ...III...,, L 1
111 open iiMiiinie'ii i'ii","ii hi. -is ii
mne until the Americans opened i.e
lit a distance of eighty motors mr
Millant soldiers then answered the lire
plucklly. Tho fight was tierce and in-
wounded.
"The spoils c.ipuiieil from the i liemy
were the following. Tiiirtv -one Manser
lilies, '.t.nnii eight mill, imter Mniiwr iitlo
cutild'ict-, thirty-one lenses, saddled ,iml
lulilliil, one pack saddle."
Gen. Francisco Uonale. ihiougli lien
1'ievilio, his asked Minister of War
lllilegnil lo ptolllote l.leiit Col. ItlV.ls
li.ii tlelpatlng In
ilisl.ll'i'.v III se'.
Ivl'o, gallantry in action and defeti f
I the country. Gen. Tiovino seconded tiie
pi'llllotl. Gen. I llli'l'gi'll llllliollllcen in
I night that C:irraii.a had onlete.l the
1 proinotluiis i-ranteil. ul'-n on,,"lnu tue
pro'lintlol'S for the otlti'j'is and men
K ill,-. I In ihe 1'iiirlz.il iluln and Sc-
go ml lelltlo Gilttil killed III M Itninolov I il,
III .1 tlthl Willi Alliet ic ins
.jovernnieiit .s denial of the rights of
American fores to lem.im in Me.Mio,
the memorandum does not Improve t lit:
chances of ,tn .iin.cal.le settlement.
I rgeil lii lliiklen llcl.
Following a (onferenre held to-day
between Seeictary l.ansu g and th'
Mexlcin Amh.issador-Des.giiatf. th'
State Depiirtmi'tit let it be known that
Mr. Lansing had stronuly urged Mr
Arrcduudii to hasten ihi. i jiv (,f h.s
Government. In re-pniiMiiic Mexirnn
quarters, hnvvi ver, u was decl.ticd thai
no such request was made
(illi.'tals ( t the Mexican Cnili .sy p-i . .
te-'s lo have no inforin.il ,n s I i v 1, ,
the icpl.v is coming and di nled all knowl
edte of repot ts oni.tliatlm. tnnn -M ,co
city to thu ellict that tin- iep v w'll
stand (irmly lielilnd the Tievino v.'uriimg
Sii'ii lepoils, liowevir. an understood
to have heen hnrile out III I Olllbll lltll'l
lesp.Hi lies received hole dill, g the ll.IV
fiom .Mexico cily
Mi Arredoiulo's p,irp,i allins, c i
the Seiietary of Si lie it was said, w
" iiiqulie whether lae tiiirii,n pc .
onus leached HI Paso safilv in, I In ad
vise him that the embissv hid icceiv.d
l ne loinial text of Un repoit on the re
leasing of the nun. He lemiiined wlln
tin- S..tet,ii h.udl) inore than the mip.
mis, aner win. ii ,1,. s.iietai went to
a mei ling hi' the I 'alnhel
uwiiig t. ihe fact thai the pn blent
was scheiliil.il in leave her., fur Xew
Voil, .a ill, th,. meeting was curtailed
Cabinet nth. crs as they left thn Whita
House lli'llc.lleil t' ,ll tlleie was no
It .i t ue in Hie situation
I mention, lllit liieailoii.
' ii.e Slate Dep.iitmeiit this after-
i " -Mi Liming let It be l.niiwn thnt
while the release of the prisoners re
moved llie immediate qiiotinu at Issue,
ttieiv stdl remains to be determined tho
all inipjitaul Ipiestlon ns to whether the
Ciuraiiza troops are to carry out Gen.
Tievino's instructions to attack Amer
ican eieilltionaty forces If they move
soiilli, oaM or w .-i
The iinolllcial forecasts fiom Mexico
c t Indicate that tie note being sent by
( airanza is not a reply to the last de.
Iiiiunls . f ihe 1'nileil Stales, nut a re
Joinder to the American leph to ('at
ran. i - ihiniml for a withdraw i of th
Amei lean i iiees.
It Is 1 IK 1 1 Mil',; t'.ll t'.l- rejuniil .- ,s
Mieniely belligei . nt in tnllo Judging
flout the forecasts received here l .e Ci
rana ciinniiuiilcatlon will bn otfensivo
ill u no to tills i lov ei unie ut, bin iocs not
si 'tie tln.illy the question of c.i ransas
iMetitlons, will, h is line the nnnot'tiiiit
M.'IH '
While t i" Mexican i:.i iss ,' iTisiet
Ii In I, nort the contents 'ft , ui-
iiiiiilcatloti. ihe stntenii i 1 w.'i ic.nle i
1 1 n.
,110(11
('mil leled
W h
I -1 '. t"i that fi, m p , si i.i innii .
ihii - onl po.liie Imsis o" itirtliei'
lis ls.cn would now appeal lo he one
Mrs. IMIUi Wilson.
ailed tho "vanislin '
inv i, ted of glMllil ''l
ii fore Judge Cr.llll 1 '
,s lias In en in ' T
lis 'I III. I'.
ha- l,i i
low un
lit n!
gleomel'l
, . f,. i
i.i
'IW.
Ill Ml
t,IM
II
ei'il Sessii 's
lis lC' l.tsi
I hi oiber ii'thougl ! 'hi -la
h . ii, i in cash "he wii" "'v
of slealllig II kii 11 fr M 1'ied.i Hul
loway of HU Voinill)!' avinin j
has ""
,0, lino Troop,
111 i won' - ' nt to
i of w " I '. "Voler,
n s ,,nea ' Cat.
I i u h'd, noi
mm ic ' i' a" '""U alolle.
