CARRANZA'S WAR MOVES MENACE PERSHING'S TROOl
3!
FINAL
g sTOTVOV
SftoHD. FINAL
I
g KOiTtON i
mClrvu1tltm Hook Oprm f Att."
"Clrcnl1hn Htmk Oprn 1 All." I
4
FJUOE OKK GENT.
MEW YORK, IATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916.
13 P AO KM
PEIOE OWE OBWT.
Ilk. lit tMfc WmMI,
GERMAN LINE IS CRUMPLED UP
LOSE FIVE TOWNS TO THE ALLIES
m
WAR 1PHNS HURRIED
BY CARRANZA ARMY HEADS;
IHO MENACES PERSHING
Mexican Troops Closing In and Likely
to Attack at Once, American Com
mander Is Warned Bridges and
Trains Bearing Militia Guarded.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, July I. Reports from Gen. I'ershing in
Mexico and from headquarters commanders along the border reflected the
hurried preparations being made by the Mexican War Department for
l clash with the American army
NEW YOI TROOPS TO LEAD
THE INVASION OE EASTERN
MEXICO IN CASE OE CONFLICT
. -
Camp Preparations Evidence That
Militia From This State Will Be
Backbone of Movement With Gen.
O'Ryarras the Dominating Figure.
BRITISH AMD FRENCH CAPTURE
SIXTEEN MILES OF TRENCHES
By Martin Green.
(Sptolsl Staff Correspondent of Tha Evtnlno World.)
M'ALLUN, Tex., July I. Camp evidence that the War Department
intends that the New York militia shall be the backbone of the Invasion
Troop trains -vere uearimr the border from north, east and west, but of Uas,er" Mexico ln casc of w;lr multiP'' hourly. In fact, the whole war
increased efforts were made to keep from the nubile the actual schedules iltliation a' tllls e"d of the International boundary is to be in militia hands
of the trains and the lime of tteir arrival at destinations. wn" J VJC"- mc uommaung commauuing- ft combincd French and British offensive
On :tll litli vhir arniuaffknuKLullwau nffl,tal h,ll,v. nl. "gure. A - , l.
tempts mlirht be made to interfere with the movement, details-of -soldiers ' Numer!ca!lyouicl3SSlng a
Allies Gain Five Miles on Nearly the
Entire Front in a Great Offensive
Which Began To-Day, Reaching
Second Line Trenches.
Hand to Hand Fighting Marks the
Struggle at Many Points and
Some Villages Are Partly Held
by the Jellies and the Germans.
BRITISH HEADQUARTERS, IN FRANCE, July
-Reportp received from the front, five hours
1.
have been sent and bridges were under guard.
Brig. Gen. George Dell jr , commanding the American army detach
ments at El Paso, was in wireless communication with Brig. Gen. John
J. Pershing at the latter's headquarters at Colonia Dublan, Mexico.
He has sent Gen. Pershing a synopsis of the Carranza memorandum
given oit last night in Mexico City, adding to it an im
perative framing to be on his giiard to-day, even to an attack by the Car
ranza forces of Gen. Jacinto Trevino, which arc closing in on Pershing.
Whether this warning was sen: under orders from Washington Gen.
(Continued on Second Puko.)
for encampment in tills part of Texas, the New York troops must neces
sarily form the most important factor of the Invasion.
" . ..WiwMftunched' at 7.30 o'clock thi.mertatf, showed
coinumauon or an tne omer units destined ' '
tnat tne auicsnac captured tne towns oi lm uoiseue,
January 1st
June 30th
ALL RECORDS BROKEN
Greatest Advertising
Achievement
In the History of Newspapers
869,655
1
i
II III i wmmmmimmm
Separate Advertisements Printed in
The World
From Jan. 1 to June 30, 1916, Inclusive.
245,633 More Than Last Year
70.662 More Than The World's High Water Mark of 1913
566,485 More Than the Herald
1910....
9l. . . .
1912....
1913....
1914....
1915....
1916..,.
WORLD'S
LEAD.
Summary for Six Months, Ending June 30:
WORLD.
. 775,926 ads. 506,665 ads. 269,261 ads.
. 760,241 ads. 479,644 ads. 280,597 ads.
.758,156 ads. 448,621 ads. 309,535 ads.
. 798,993 ads. 410,665 ads. 388,328 ads.
. 686,264 ads. 369,851 ads. 316,413 ads.
624,022 ads. 330,273 ads. 293,749 ads.
869,655 ads. 303,170 ads. 566,485 ads.
This Is a New Record and Stands Unapproached by Any
Other Newspaper on the Face of the Earth,
T
Tlio regular nnny l largely occu-
i pled along tlin Chihuahua and Hon
or u borders of Mexico anil to a con
siderable) extrnt to the southeast of
that territory. Until this district Is
approached the regular force In small
and almost entirely occupied ln pa
trol and guard duty.
It will not bo possible to send Into
Mexico from Houthcastern Texas a
forco of regulars sufficient to copo
with tho well armed Carranza forces
that are assembling across the river,
henco the mobilization here of a pow
erful militia forco which In caso of
war Is destined to cross the Itlu
Oranda under tho protection of fire
from batteries of heavy artillery sta
tioned on the American sldo of tho
rlvor and muko a dash for the In
terior. At o'clock last night a train
loaded with artillery horses and ar
tlllorymon from Fort Bill, Okls.,
passed through this town bound
west at forty mtlos an hour. It was
followed lator by two other artillery
69TH AND 47TH MAY NOT
60 TO BORDER AT ALL
Regime'nts Will Not He Sent at This
Time, Anyway The 23d
Will Go.
Under new orders Issued to-day at
Department of tho Kast Headquarters
of tho United Htatns Army the Forty,
seventh, Hlxty-nlnth and Tenth In
fantry rteglments, now In camp nt
Green Haven, aro not going to the
Mexican ,Wrder at this time, If at all.
The- First, Hecond, Third, Twenty
third and Beventy-fourth will entrain
probably to-night or to-morrow.
The Twenty-thlrd will leave for tho
bordor within the next forty-eight
hours. '
When (Jen. Wood was asked why
ths Twenty-thlrd was going while the
Hixty-nlnth, might stay at homo, he
said: "You will have to ask Gov.
Whitman about It."
Ai.iiA.NY, July I. Gov. Whitman
trains, both moving as fast as tho , declined to-day to discuss hi. request
engine could turn tho wheels
This artillery was routed for
Brownsville Thursday night. Home
time after the trains left Houston the
War Department diverted them to
tho West from Ilarllngsn.
Pontoon bridges sufficient In site
and number to carry large detach
ments of artillery, cavalry and In.
fantry across the nio Grande have
been sent to Bamfordyce, the terminal
of the branch road running west
from Harllngen, In the past two days.
ARTILLERY AND PONTOONS
MASSED AT BAMFORDYCE.
The artillery has followed to Bam
fordyce, More than 10,000 troops are
to be concentrated about MoAllen,
convenient to Bamfordyce within the
next two weeks or as soon as they
can be brought from the North. Bam.
fordyce Is twenty miles across the
country from Wo Orande City, an
American town on the Rio Grande
across the river from Camargo, where
a Carranza army la gathering In
force.
Motor trucks have been sent to
Bamfordyce by the trarnlond. It
would appear to be reasonable to
suppose, therefore, that If there Is
war and Mexico Is Invaded the New
York, New Jersoy and Texas troops
stationed In this vicinity, together
with the heavy artillery, will be sent
across at Mo Grande City with the
(Continued on Ninth Page,)
(FC Rselna Results See Psae 2.)
that the Twenty-thlrd Iteglinont of
Brooklyn be sent to the border In
stead of tho Hlxty-nlnth. There was
no discrimination, tho Governor said,
In leaving the Ulvty-ninth behind at
this time.
"I think," he added, "that all of
the regiments will go to the front"
MILITARY RELIEF BILL
PASSED BY THE HOUSE
Hay Act Appropriating S2,ooo,ooo
for Dependent Families of Militia
men, Goes Through, 297 to 2.
WASHINGTON, July 1,-The Hay
bill appropriating $2,000,060 for do
pendent families of NatlonaOuards
men called or drafted ln the present
emergency was passed by the Housa
to-day. The bill which now goes to
the Hnnate, allows not oxoeedlng ISO
a month to the dependent families In
tho discretion of the Hecretary of War.
Representatives Small (Democrat,
North Carolina) and James (Repub
lican, Michigan) were the only mem
bers to rote against the bill, which
passed, 297 to I.
Rnda Life by Three-Horr Leap.
Joseph Carrlda, thirty-five years old,
rommltted suicide this morning by
Jumping fro ti the third-story window of
No, 411 Henry Utraot. Brooklyn, where
he lived will) a married sltfur, V
Serre and Montauban and Curlu and Faviere
Woods. The main first line trenches over the entire
r
front under attack are reported to have been
stormed, and at various points the fighting has
reached the main second line.
These reports show that the French and British,
at points of their furthest advances, have broken
through a distance of more than five miles beyond
the first German trenches. Montauban is five and
one-half miles east of the old British front, and
Curlu Wood' is six miles cast-southeast of Albert.
The British are endeavoring to surround
Thiepval, and at other points an intense struggle is
under way for towns and villages. Reports from
the front indicate that the important German
position at Fricourt may be cut off.
The British arc making progress behind the
front lines in German-held territory. Serre and
Montauban, which the British have captured, are
important tactical points. Serre is southeast of
Hebuterne, and Montauban is northeast of Bray.
The British are fighting for the villages of Mamctx
and Contalmaisons, portions of which they hold'.
The -British are fighting gallantly, and have
taken many prisoners in the front lines.
The French, advancing on the British right,
are moving with great steadiness. After the assault
they very quickly covered a distance of two kilo
metres beyond the German front line. Thus far
the day has gone well for France and England.
BRITISH OPEN ATTACK
ON A TWENTY-MILE FRONT
French Move Forward Simultaneously to South
of the Sommc River Five-Day Bom
bardment Preceded Assault.
LONDON, July 1. The supreme attack of the
allied forces, the long heralded advance against
the giant German army on tho western battle line
was begun at 7.30 o'clock this morning, The result
of it was a gain for the allied troops such as has not
REPEATED ALLIED ATTACKS
REPULSED..SAYS BERLIN
Germans Claim Successes in Engagements $1
Preceding Great Drive of To-Day t
Barely Mention New Offensive.
:
BERLIN, July 1 (via London). Reconnoitrif
attacks by French and British troops along the
western front during the night were in all eases
repulsed by the Germans, the War Office annouaaai ,
to-day. Following is the text of the report:
"Repeated French and' British rcconnoitriaf
attacks during the night were everywhere,. j
A number of prisoners and Mm4.fnatar.al
in our hands ' '
"The attacks were preceded by intense, firti
gas attacks and rhine explosions. - , ,
"Early this mornlrtg .fighting activity appre
ciably increased on both sides of the SommeV' ' ,
m
IS
teak
been known since the Germans were beaten
from the gates of Paris.
fifvt! ml1sa nf (nmtJrtt sutisn nil mat ,
of the Germans were taken in a drive by the Brittak V'
forces north of the Somme. At the same
French troops on the British right advances! mid.
according to a bulletin from the British WarOfXsaf; .
mmWk
made gains equally effective;
the overwhelming attack of the British was made oh a tmmjly.y ir
mile front north of the Somme after a bombardment which, hating Hi
an hour and a half, was the most terrific In which the British wtrt tvsr
enraced. For five davs the runs had never been silent, thousand, uaan
thousands of shells had been hurled into the German works. Then, after ;
tli last terrific blast, the British advanced upon the stubbornly held Gtr7-
man enirencnments. - k
ALUMS REACH SECOND LINE TRENCHES.
So determined was the assault of the allied forces that at some potoU jj
all the main first line trenches of the Germans were taken, and oDmttastf: ii
have now reached the main second line, according to reports fromtatvj1
British headquarters in France,
Town after town was taken by the allies In their IrresWWe
Serre, Montauban, Curlu, La Bolselle and the Favlere Woods wr 'i
l ..I '
lUItU III llC Ul 3111 1 IUUIUIU.C, . r J'l '.
Northwest of Thiepval, which was ferociously bornbrdef
duced, the British have taken up a strong position In an effort ts-
rniiivl U is
The Germans still hold Fricourt, Ovllllers and Beaumont-HtNitV
urn uic umibii nave :11.111c n iresn nuacx upon tne liner pwee, ana tfv y
nttemptlng to cut off Filcourt, r.n Important German position.
An Intense atnicrle !i In n-nrrrsi for the noMesrlon nf Pnatsinsslissi t
one end of which Is held by the British while the Germans bold tfa
Fighting Is going on nt the vlllnge of Mameti, six miles east of Aleut
and the Anglo-French foices are driving eastward In the gensnl drWsfr,
of Cambral, Such news as Is permitted to come from the front UaV
cates that the advances of the allied troops are carrying the stroafts
positions or the uonmns, 1 he advances reached their greatest 9mm
along a thirteen-mile front extending from a point north of Alben ( ft
1-1 11. 1 ..III O I- . . ...
jiuiiii auuir.caM m 111.11 viimgc, Derre is rouneen rnue somnetai 9f
Arras nnd Montauban six miles east of Albert,
GERMANS DRIVEN OUT OF TRENCHES,
Shaken by the Incessant bombardment and. confronted by masses et
British troops which advanced In the face of all the fire .'the ftaerV
forces could direct against them, the Germans were'driven from tnaanv,
after trench, Many prisoners how many could not be estlmatedhf 1
been taken mid latest drpatchrfi announce that tho battle Is wopjjiti;, t
with the utmost violence on both tlu British and French fronts. . ;
The let o( the War OITlco announoemant Is as (ollowa) Wftf'
um ftttark was Isumhed nerlh ut the Hler roaiM IMi sMnH
l"fi 70 A. la coajKolKia wltk the VnnU. Brlttfk
T
sWsllettfBBjisltiljkBli
