NIGHT
EXTRA
' n --r ! i-nr-n' - ' ' T -
VOL. H.t-NO. 250
wmmmsmw.
N
EXTRA
rteHiADULPHIA, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1910.
Cortuanr, 1019, bt mi Pciu.ro Lisas Coupahi.
(J. S. DEMANDS ,
EXACT STAND
OF CARRANZA
insulting Statement
Gives Situation MoVe
Serious Turn
COUNTERPROPOSALS
EXPECTED ON TROOPS
Congress Adjourning Over
tihe "Fourth" Regarded
as Good Omen
WAR MOVES .CONTINUE
.
Mexico Probably Will Insist on
Evacuation and Promise
Bandit Curb
-
The, United States will not go to war
wlthfEMcxico instigated by tho mero
tVerd8bf the -de facto Chief.
Action in reference to the American
(troops now In tho southern, republic
iwlll determine President Wilson's
policy.
J Washington docs not regard the For
eign Office's insulting statement in
(Mexico City, issued yesterday, as Indi
cating the exact attitude to be ex
pressed to the American Government.
, ' However, it gave the situation a more
serious turn. m
TjHe formal reply of Carranza to the
note of last Sunday is awaited before
sterta will bo taken.
leanwhile, however, Washington is
groiving impatient over the typical
LCaitranza dallying and has requested
ian learly reply.
Ijt is expected CiJyranza will insist
!n .withdrawal of the trooDs.v counting
ivitfo the demand the pledgp that the
Iiacp uovernment is able to tatte
a of the bandit situation.
Large Carranza forces have massed
ar the border. What American of-
Ials do not know' Tswtiethex this
vemeht is to curb bandits or to at
k the American troops. Thus far,
Carranzistas have not been par-
Jularly hostile to bandits. They have
Lacked tho Americans.
Counter - proposals from Carranza
buld have the effect of placing tho
ixt movo up to tho United States.
he President is willing to receive any
lasonablo proposition. However, in
go interim, the Trevino order against
ovement of the American troops
ands, and any aggression would pre-
Ipitate attack.
It is intimated Mexico is sparring for
le in order to gatherjier forces.
IEXIC0 EXPECTED TO OFFER
COUNTER-PROPOSALS ON THE
STATUS OF U. S. EXPEDITION
WASHINGTON. July I. Admlntritin
"oljlclala were Bravely concerned today over
we demy by First Chief Carrania In for
warding formal reply to the American ul
timatum of laet Sunday .demanding to know
i"i vntuuo ui. uid ua iucio uovernment
toward the expeditionary forces now In
Mexico.
While the statement Issued In Mnli-n
City yesterday by tho Foreign Orilce Is not
regarded as the offlolal statement of the da
facto Government's position, the Adminis
tration Is convinced that Carrania, Jn tha
fiwo of the sentiment of the Mexican peo-
, win not unqualifiedly consent to tha
y of American troops In Mexico.
fa soma circles It Is believed that the da
ito Mexican Government will relterata
Jat it cannot permit movements of Amer-
Ian troops In any direction but toward tha
1 Vforder, but will accompany that statement
by a declaration that It now is fully Der-
I pared to prevent any further bandit raids
fyaln American territory.
It also was suggested that a reply to
CentlnueJ on Pas Four, Column lire
, THE WEATHER
There's a feeling of emptiness with the
Aparturo of the ad men, who make every.
King-and everybody famous. Now that our
ical thrills have gone, we'll have to be
satisfied reading about tha assorted dells
-of Ana Mr. Carranza, j(a is. not unlike our
friend Mr. AJax, whofrequently raved at
tha lightning for want of a. better occupa
tion, but this wrathful element continued
lis career, nevertheless, and Hashed its In
dignation at will f.o all corners of the. earth.
And now, with the opening of regular
summer, we wlll.no doubt have a more
Intlroata acquaintance with It. When. t
Jsfeps clear of roots, steeples anc people,
lightning la a BTWl treat after a day of
fcmsiMty.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
weather and moderate temverbturee to
7$ighi and Sunday; gentle, northerly
winds, bectming variable.
LOST AND TOTJND
CERTIFICATE Lo, f rtlfliM of marUerthlp
oT Uscj-j" W Smith. ideccucKl, member ct ih
Voluntr Firnnni'j fc'untral lUIUf jMwl.
iwn. rauwniiui. t, SMITH.
Widow or Ueor W Smith.
IV CHAMOIS PURSE found. ISth south
tiiiii cqptahu iau;y Aiirtti laemlaci-
, St wM'y Jueagsr usnsriu
CMta? X4( aod I'uuud Ails ou Fi(e 12
ANGLO-FRENCH ARMIES BEGIN
TERRIFIC DftlVE; OCtliPY MORE
THAN 16 MILES OF TRENCHES
Allies Open Fierce Offensive and Smash
Germans' First-Line Defenses Teu- .
tons Regain Thiaumont on
Verdun Front
Russians Occuby Kolomea, Key to Lemberg Panic-
Stricken Troops of Dual Monarchy in Retreat.
Italians Push Relentless Pursuit of Foe
in Trentino
LONDON, July 1. Tho supremo offensive of tho Allies began nt 7:30
o'clock this morning with one o?tho greatest Anglo-French gains on the -western
front since tho German retreat from tho gates of Paris.
Two hours after British troops drove forward they had captured 16 miles
of German forward trenches north of tho Sommc, tho War Office announced in
a brief bulletin. ,
French troops on the British right struck at the same hour. Tho British
War Office announced that tho French mado "equally satisfactory" gains,
leaving to General Joffro the honor of announcing tho full extent of the French
successes.
Tho British attack was made on a 20-milo front north of tho Sommc after
one of tho most terrific four-day bombardments tho world has ever known.
With German advanced trenches firmly held, tho British pressed forward to
tho attack at 9:8a ojclock. Tho latest dispatches to tho War Office said tho
battle was proceeding with tho utmost violence on both the British and French
fronts. ,
Many prisoners have been taken, but it is impossible at this hour to obtain
,any estimates on the number captured or the losses. Fragmentary dispatches
from tho front report Allied casualties have been light.
On tho remainder of tho British front raiding parties continuo to hnrrnss
tho Germans, penetrating enemy defenses at many points, inflicting losses nnd
taking prisoners..,
Tho War Office nt 2:30 o'clock this afternoon issued a statement warning
that in the interests of public safety thcro should be no traveling on tho
Continent except for the most serious reasons. All persons intending to leave
for the Continent were warned that they would undergo the strictest examina
ion under the passport regulations and close search of their persons nnd
baggage.
The combined British and French drive began a few hours' nfter the Ger
mans launched the most powerful onslaughts against Verdun in many weeks.
The Crown Prince hurled his legions against the French works east and west
of the Meuse. The French Wnr Office announced that on every sector.jthe
Germans were repulsed with appalling losses, except on tho northeastern front,
where the French were again driven out of Thlamount work.
The Galician railroad centre of Kolomea, tho strategical value of which was
cran'jjasizcd in recent dispatches, is in tho hands of tho Russians, according to an
omcial announcement triads "last night at PotrogrdTd." Tho fqllbf Kolomea isby
far tho heaviest bToV dealt to tho Austro-Gorman armies bj? General (Brusiloff
nfter the captute"of the Volhynia fortified triangle and of Czernowitz, as it onens
the way to nn attack on Lomberg andwhat is of more immediate import, ren
ders untenable tho AustrpGdfenan lino of defense along the Stripa Kiver.
Asido from the factnSurothe Austrian southern wing, which had to give
way to the rapid and powerful onslaught of the Russian left wing in Bukowina,
must cither cross tho Carpathians into Hungary or cross the Rumanian frontier
and be interned, the more immediate result of the fall of Kolomea will be tho
probable readjustment of the Austro-German line which passes through Tarno
pol, thus giving the Russians tho chanco to maneuver west of the Dniester and
seriously endanger tho Teuton army defending the approaches to Lemberg
from the east
The Italians are pushing their offensive in tho Trentino region and have
reached tho Austrian main line of defense. While their attacks do not yet war
rant the belief that the big' offensive on tho east Italian front has really begun,
they continue from the Gorizia bridgehead to the Monf alcone sector.
JERSEY TROOPS WAIT
FOR MOUNTS &S LAST
INFANTRYMEN LEAVE
Horse Guardsmen Impatient as
Fourth Regiment Leaves Them
Behind Fielder Criticises
Government's Delay
D AND B GROW RESTLESS
SEA. dlRT, N. J., July 1. All tho New
Jersey Rational Guardsmen called by Presi
dent Wilson, exoept Troops D, of Bed
Bank, and D, of Plalnfield, are on the way
to the Mexican border this afternoon. Tha
Jth Regiment, of Jersey City, tha last of
the Infantry, was off -before noon. On an
other tralnSvent the Signal Corps of Jersey
City. The Wo troops remain because of
nonarrlval of horses promised by the Gov
ernment. The 4th Regiment men, who slept In aheU
ter tents last night, were up early, and after
a hearty breakfast broke camp. Headed
by a voluntter band, with Cojonel George
T, Vlckers In the lead, they matched past
Governor Fielder, who stood with a group
of friends on the porch of his cottage. Tha
regiment goes by way of Buffalo and Chi
cago to El Paso.
On tha headquarters train went Brigadier
General Edwin W, Hlna; hla adjutant, Ma-i
Jor Alexander P, Gray; ana ms two aiaes,
LleutsnanU H. V, D. Moore and Johrt V,
Hlnchliffa. He will resume command of
the brigade at the border.
The signal corps worked nearly all night
entraining. '
John GopslI, a plytUan. of 707 Bergen
avenue, Jersey City, was shot In the neck by
a stray bullet yesferday while riding with
his wlf In a trolley car. He was taken
to a hosfiltal at Spring Iake, and this morn
ing he Vas reported resting comfortably.
The only theory In explantoWpf the shoot
ing Is that some recruit experimenting with
a gun turned it toward, the trolley line and
nrtd,
Governor Fielder said emphatically k
wQuld rot let the remaining troopers go
until the horsea were here, and 'Bald that
New Jf rgey, having been the flrat State to
mobilize, should havo been the first State
supplied,
Two hundred and ninetyi-three soldiers'
kits, containing needles, button and thread
and other mall necessities, we re received
today from women at Asbury Park, and
glvenr to the soldbrs, They were brought
here by Mr T. Brank Appleby, wife, o a
former Asbury Mayor
LONGjEXPECTED BRITISH
OFFENSIVE BEGINS WITH
TERRIFIC INFANTRY DASH
LONDON, July 1.
The long-expected British offensive began
at 7:30 this morning with a tremendous
smash against the German lines on a 20
mlle front north of the Somme. This in
formation was contained In brief special
bulletins from army headquarters toiay.
The British swept forward with a' rush,
capturing some 'enemy front line trenches.
Many German prisoners were taken. The
British attacks were continuing with great
est violence at the hour when the dispatches
were filed.
The War Office Issued the following offi
cial statement this morning)
An attack was launched north of the
Somme this morning at 7:30 o'clock In
conjunction with the French, The
British troops hayeJiroken the German
forward system of defenses on a front
of IS miles. Fighting Is continuing,
The French attack on our Immediate
right Is proceeding equally satisfac
torily. On the remainder of the British front
raiding parties penetrated the enemy's
defenses, inflicting losses and taking
prisoners.
In a supplementary report this Afternoon
the War Office announced the capture by
the British troops of Serre and Montauban
and that Anglo-French troops were fighting
at MameU and Contal Maison, part of
which the French hold.
French troops have captured, Curlu and
'the Sayler Wood and have advanced two
.kilometres (about one and one-fifth miles),
the War Office stated.
Fighting Is 'going on at ;the village of
MameU, six miles east of Albert and the
village of Contal Maleon, four miles east
northeas of Albert. The French hold the
easten) part of the village of Contal Mason.
The supplementary statement, revealing
for the first time the' exact scene of opera
tions, shows that the Anglo-French advance
reached Its greatest depth along a 30-mlle
front exteimlng from a point north of Al
bert to ft point southeast of that village.
The Anglo-French forces, are drtvlnir,Wst
ward In the general direction of Carnbral.
The semiofficial announcement Indicates
that the advances already; extend beyond
the capture of German forward trenches.
The British thruat forward this morning
following four days o't tha moat lavish ex
penditure of ehtllflre tho world haj ever
CeattsMd un Fa$e Two, Column Vast
MAX MARSTON AND
WHITE ADVANCE
INTO SEMIFINALS
Former Jersey Champion
Defeats Brown in Sleepy
Hollow Tourney, 4 and 8
MAXWELL IS ELIMINATED
SCARBOROUGH, N, T., July 1. Max
R. Marston, of Bnttusrol, nnd Gardiner W.
White, of Flushing, admittedly two of tho
best golfers In the Metropolitan district,
won their semifinal round matches In ho
Invitation tournament nt tho Sleepy Hollow
Country Club today. White defeased I. W.
Maxwell, of tho homo club, 2 up nnd 1 to
play; whllo Marston eliminated Charles II.
Brown, of St Andrews, 4 and 3.
White begnn well by winning tho first
hole in 4 from Maxwell, who had a -poor
second shot, and took 6. A bit of hard luclc
cost tho Flushing man tho second hole.
His drive brought up in tha rough only n
few yards off tho course, but a long search
failed to find tha rubber cue.
QUICK NEWS
V
HOUSE PASSES SOLDIERS' RELIEF BILL
' WASHINGTON, July 1. The Hny resolution npiiroprlating:
$2,000,000 for tho releif of dependent wives, cliidren nnd mothers'
of married militiamen, wns passed by the House today by a vote
of 200 to 2, It gives tho Secretaiy of Wnr power to pay a family
wltmout income $50 per month. Ilepiesentatives James, Michigan,
and Small, Noith Carolina, voted against the bill.
FRENCH REPULSED AT THIAUMONT, BERLIN SAYS
i
BERLIN, July 1. Tho Geimnn War Office today lenorted that
the fighting is glowing mote violent in the Somme section (the Ens
libh fiont). , In the Verdun sector the lcpulse of ficuch ;UUcH3 in
the Thiaumont legion was lepoited.
NEW REVENUE BILL
TO ADD $210,000,080
TO NATION'S COFFERS
Income Tax More Than Doubled,
Inheritance Tax Established.
Heavy Burden Placed on
Munition Manufacture
PROTECTION FOR DYES
OUTSTANDING FEATURES,
1 Tho outstanding features of the bill are:
Tho Income, tax Is mora than doubled all
one the line.
A new tax on inheritances Is proposed
applying to 'Inheritances over $50,000.
A tax Is levied on tho profits of manu
facture of munitions of war, from which
It is expected to raiso $65,000,000.
Stamp taxes levied under the first war
revenue net are virtually all abolished.
Protection is afforded the dyestuff Indus
try. A nonpartisan tariff commission is
created.
Payment of expenses Incident to Mexi
can expedition to be met by issue of
bonds.
Antlunfalr competition clause substituted
for antidumping clause.
New .method of taxing theatres.
Thelncome tax will be:
The present exemption of 13000 for a
qlnglo man and $4000 for a married man
Is retained.
The present tax of 1 per cent Is raised
to 2 per cent on all incomes of $20,000 or
less.
The tax Is then graduated as follows:'
On Incomes from $20,000 to $40,000, 1 per
cent additional; between $40,000 and $60,
000, 2 per cent; between $60,000 and $80,
000, 3 per cent; between $80,000 and
$100,000, 4 per cent; between $100,000 and
150,000, 5 per cent; between $160,000 and
200,000, 6 per cent; between $200,000 and
$250,000, 7 per cent; between $250,000 and
$300,000, 8 per cent; between $300,000 and
$500,000, 9 per cent, and 10 per cent, ad
ditional on all Incomes In excess of $500,000,
Domestla building and loan associations
and farmers' fire v mutual Insurance com
panies, mutual or co-operative telephone
companies or like organizations, the Incomes
of which depend solely on dues or fees col
lected from members, will be exempted from
the provisions of this act
INHERITANCE TAX.
The Inheritance tax provisions are:
,The tax Is made payable on all Inherit
ances over $60,000 within one yfar after
the death of the decedent and Is graduated
as follows;
On estate which nets from $5,0,000 to
$160,000, 2 per cent; between $160,000 and
i
WOULD SELL WAR BONDS TO GENERAL PUBLIC
WASHINGTON, July 1. Senator Lewis of Illinois today mged
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo to recommend that if wnr bonds aic
Issued, they shall be in small denominations nnd sold to the gcnei.il
public possibly through tho postal savings bank.
I
AVIATION SERVICE FOR COAST GUARD
WASHINGTON, July 1. The Montague bill piovldlng for an
aviation service in tho coast gunid was leported to the House for
passage today by the Committee on Interstate and Toieigu Comme.ice.
The bill has the approval of the Ticasuiy Department and various
aeronautic-socleties.
Bu a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON. July 1. The largest , . r
recnue bill over brought In for the ap
proval of Congress was reported today to
the House from the Ways and Means
Committee.
Experts say the bill will raise approxi
mately $210,000,000 additional rexepuo as
follows:
$100,000,000 from Incomes.
$60,000,000 from Inheritance. . '
5,SSSf -ikGNT-TRS0NS W8"iWB BH t
WASHINGTON, July 1. German authorities will not permit
persons to leave that part of Poland occupied by GeYman troops for
America unless their applications nre accompanied by steamship tick
ets for passage to the United States. The State Department was in
formed of this decision today in a cablegram from the Ameilcnn Con
sul at Berlin,
CARRIGAN AND GRIFFITH INDEFINITELY SUSPENDED
CHICAGO, July 1 Manager Cntrigan and Catcher Agncw, of
the Boston Ked Sox, and Manager Griffith and Shortstop McBrido,
of the Washington Senators, werd put under lnde'nite suspension
today toTc'resldeut Johnson, of the American league, for their ptrt
in a figE? in yesteiday's Boston-Washington game at Wnshlngtpn.
Jonnson said he would make n thorough investigation before order
ing additional penalties.
Continued on I'aie Two, Column Two
ALLENTOWN WIFE SLAYER
CONVICTED OF FIRST DEGREE
Prisoner Calrnly Chews Gummas Jury
Returns Verdict
AIJCiENTOWN, Pa.. July 1. After hav
ing been out all night, the jury that tried
Jonas Drobst for the murder of hl3 wife,
Jennie, on May returned a verdict of
guilty In the first degree at 9 o'clock this
morning. Brobst made no defense, except
a plea for mercy through his attorney,
Dalls DUUnger, whose offer of a plea of
guilty In the 'second degree, was overruled
by the court ' ,
Brobst was unmoved by the verdict and
calmly chewed gum pne of h(s sisters
fainted. Judge Croman said he, -wguld. give,
Erobst'a attorney 30 days to file reasons for
a ney trial- If the sentence, carried by the
verdict goe Into effect. Brobst wilj be l,e
high's first (victim pt tha electric ciu!r.
TIIA1NS TO JIT. lillETM
unqay. JUlr?. rfnnjyyaaia n n juyb
e.aa a J4 . uv tr. u vmc
Bt. Station 423.
Ul, QrIof 1QA M.
nnrrrNA tomokepw.
it it LYBresa
B.30 P il (Lu
6.29, 73 P U Mvt-i
'i:
:xiK
Ty,
M TM '
,1
GOVERNOR NAMES EXAMINING ACCOUNTANTS
HARlilSBUna, July 1, Governor Brumbaugh today appointed the following
members of the Board for the Examination of Accountants: James W Fernley,
Philadelphia Adam A. Itoss, Philadelphia; B. Frank Nead, Harrlsburg; Frank
Wilbur Main! Pittsburgh; James B. Hlndman, Pittsburgh.
LLOYD-GEORGE PREPARES TO TAKE .KITCHENER'S POST
tONDON, July 1. The details of Minister of Munitions Lloyd-George's appoint
ment to tho War Office to succeed Lord Kitchener have been arranged, the Dally
Chronicle stated today, A perfect understanding exlata between Lloyd-George and
tho general staff, the Chronicle said.
,
MEXICANS RESTORE AMERICANS' PROPERTY
WASHINGTON, July 1, Protests of the State Department two days ago
against the seizure of property of Americans In the States of Coahuila. and Man
zanlllo already have bad effect The department was officially advised today that
the Carranza authorities In Coahuila, are rounding up live stock and other, rolling
property taken from Americans and will restore them to the owners at once. In
Manianlllo part of the gold and silver bullion taken from Americans already has
been recovered and It la said tha rest will be restored to the owner at once.
fapp and Birsy Get Together aicl Discuss the Timely Subject
: olitriQ
TEN SHOT IN PRO-LIEBKNECHT RIOTS JN BERtlN
LONDON; July I. Ten persons were seriously e-hot and GO arrested In the
pro-Llebknecht riots In Fotsdammer platz, Berlin, the Amsterdam, correspondent
of the Central News asserted today. Most pf the participants were Socialists. A
guard has been thrown abou.t the plats to prevent similar demonstrations. Tha
correspondent also asserted that 30 Socialist organizers who participated In a
hunger parade In Liege- were arrested and taken to Germany
m WORRYf
TROOPS ASK AS
THEY GO SOUTH
"We'll Show Those
Greasers' Second Regi-
jtient Men Sing
'
RUSH TO THE BORDER;
ALL'S WELL ON TRAIN
"We're on the Road to Ac
tion," Soldiers Cry as
They Go
HOME CITY MEMORY NOW
Drills, Routine of Camp Lifo
and Possible Entry Into Mex
ico Loom Ahead
COL. HAMILTON D. TURNER
Commanding the 2d .Regiment, of
.-Philadelphia, which JiSt riovrtm' itfi
way to ElTasoi '
ON BOARD SECOND REGIMENT
PENNSYLVANIA TROOP TRAIN,
July 1. "Good fellows got together"
nt 10 o'clock this morning, where the
two sections bearing the, Second Regi
ment met at Brunswick, Md., on tho
Potomac, six miles from Harper's
ana poppa uoposs ?8JIJ oijx Al3
containing 15 horses for the use of the
officers. '
Tho 5000 inhabitants gave theThiia
dclphia troops a rousing welcome, little
girls struggling and reaching up for the
touch of a soldier's hand. Several com
panies of tho Second nnd Third Bat
talions were ordered out and took light
running exercise.
Captain George Van Horn Moseley,
of the Army General Staff, today was
assigned by Secretary of "War Baker
to be chief of staff of the Pennsylvania
militia, with tho rank of colonel. Colo
nel Moseley will proceed immediately
to Mount Gretna to assume complete
charge of the Pennsylvania Guard now
mobilizing there.
By CARL L. ZEISBERG
(Miaee dropped Trom train at Unlos
Station, Waihlntton.)
SECOND PENNSYLVANIA REGIMENT
TROOP TRAIN, en route to El Paao,
July 1.
Away at last,
It seems almost unbelievable to the 100
men In the 2d Regiment, after tho turmoil
of mobilization, the doubt, the obstacles, the
worry, the delay, the handicaps, the falsa
starts, the Indecision, the postponement, tha
stirring order to entrain, the counter-order
not to do It. tha exciting reorder to do It,
the depressing recounter-order not to do It,
that they actually "are on their way rfoday
In a general direction southwestward to
ward the troubled border of Mexico.
Yes, It 13 true. The 2d Regiment tA
Philadelphia, Colonel Hamilton D. Turner
commanding, Is on Ua way to El Paaa ln
two sections, rolling through town after
town, while the bands crash and boom, and
the noses that line the station platforms
are uncountable.
With the cheer8 (and the tears) o Phtlaw
delphla left back there In the night in the
crowded station, with the kUsea of lovd
ones on their lips the lucky nes thesa
soldiers, the first Infantry host, thtt State
has furnished the nation In her hc-ur of
need, the chosen few of numr are peadin
toward that lone where men are n44.
It Is bliss, after el aays of grilling worlt
and Inaction, If that Is not an Incongruity i
on the rolling green and iron-red height of
Mount Gretna.
But- the Miss of sitting teto-a-tot t ,
wooden passenger coaches, with the. soroii
pect of Ave, six or perhaps seveu day fit"
jt, waa not attained unU th fate "rr
lassoed, and tied with every knot Hwawtt t
sailor and cowboy In thus last Jteur r
entrapment at Cotebroc-k.
Tha cara are at wood, t fr eurittMrt. Ham
aw "fit for vfciu wmi a pHUUs wr.shi$
by Brigadier Jirl Pete tm4 altm&
st&ii&sf& sit ViiMi Sub CNjfejH
tism on Page 4 of Today?a 4MQEaemMfeJtofllii
