"JAN 17. 1917
Bridgepo
Farmer
1
VOL. 52 NO. 156
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
Mi mm i
mm aS'.ifkt
EIF f fflPMES IfflM!
rm
ME
mm
n TATTKrmTn
:' t.
BRITISH FORCES, IN TERRIFIC MASSED
; ATTAM TAKE MANY STRONG GERMAN
TRENCH
Following Five Days of Incessant Bombardment in
Which a Million Shells Were Fired Daily,
British Army Undertakes Biggest Offensive
Movement of the Campaign in France Sey
eral First Line Trenches Are Captured-Ter--
: rif ic Encounter is Continued French Support
. ..' British in Attack. . .
London, July 1 After weeks of intense bombardment with
guns of every calibre, firing a million shells, daily, the British
early this morning launched a general offensive against the Ger
.man line along a front of 20 miles north of the river 3amme. ;
. They succeeded in taking the German front line trenches
nd capturing many men. J t .
V . The. French in the British right co-operated in the" attack.
;When:the last despatches thus far received left British head
flfaarteC8 the;fighting was still progressing. '
2r'CThi. British already have captured Serre and Montahban.
The Germans hold Fricourt, Ovillers and Beaumohf-Hamel. The
French, co-operating to the souths have captured Curtu and Fa
.Viere Woods. . .': '''-"'" -
, ' First line Trenches Captured . v : S j
Allthe main first line trenches are reported to. have been
taken. At some points the operations have now reached the
main' second line. . :r"
At Beaumont-Hamel th9; British are just making a fresh at
tack.' There is lan mtenge struggle In progress for possession of
Contaimaison, one- eiid of which the British hold, with- lherGer
jnahs In the'other. . . , V.'" ',.
The British, have takei La Boiselle. "
The British have a . strong 'position norljhwest of Thiepval
and are attacking fiercely in an effort to surround it. The im
portant German position at Fricourt may be cut off.
Th front selectedl for the British
Kehsive was decided upon many
weeks ago. ' This is the first time since
the outbreak ot the war that the in
tention of-an army tp undertake , an
offensive has been sq well advertised.
j -week ago, when the German attacks
gainst Verdun began to make fur
ther' headway, and it was feared the
army of the Crown Prince was getting
Within a distance of Verdun which
m-as dangerous for' they ..allies, the
British guns began to speak. Since
(then, except for the hour when Brit
ish infantrymen, were raiding German
' trenches, a continual bombardment
. jbaa been maintained. '
Early this, morning more guns were
trought Into action on 20-mile sector
and for an hour and a half the Ger-
- mans were -.subjected to a bombard
ment which is described as the fiercest
experienced in this war ,of heavy ar
tillery. . -. - ' . f
The news of. the British offensive,
which was quickly circulated in Lon
don, created, the greatest enthusiasm,
i auid details of the batUe are .being
anxiously awaited. ".
The. news spread throughout Lon
don like wildfire. There was a frantla
rush to obtain special editions of the
evening papers. Men and women in
OFFENSIVELY BIG BRITISH FORGE
FOLLOWS TERRIFIC BOMBARDMENT
The tremendous offensive -which has
been' launched by the British ' army
; on the German, front is the culmina
, tion of a five day bombardment which,
in. the amount of ammunition expend
ed and in the territory involved, ex
ceeds anything of the kind that has
teen previously known in the world
war.- ,- . . -
For tome weeks reports have been
current in England and France that
the "big push" of the British .was
about to commence. It was stated
that England had 2.000.000 men, fully
equipped and trained, in preparation
for the. supreme effort to break the
German lines,. - More than 1,000,000
. Shells are declared to have been fired
dally in the preliminary bombardment
whltfh extended over a front 90. miles
In length," .-,- A
The menace of the British attack
was fully appreciated in Germany, ac
cording to .newspaper comments from
' Berlin, and (the utmost confidence was
expressed in the ability of the Ger
mans to meet and crush It.
. The, allies are now on the offensive
Jn virtually, every field . of the war.
The British assault domes on the heels
i of the great successes won by the
' Russians In Gallcla and Bukowlna
which have' resulted In completely
driving 'the Austrian from Bukowlna
and are still continuing. On the Ital
ian front the central powers have also
met With, severe reverses and for sev
eral days .the. Italians have been
steadily driving the Austrians from
: position after position in the Tren
tino. - The defense also of Verdun by
the French appears to have stiffened
and the .balance of battle in that "bit
terly 'contested sector seems recently
POSITIONS
little groups,, scanned the special edi
tions, then broke out In cheers of joy.
'British Headquarters In FranceJuly
1, 12:35 p. m. A tremendous British
offensive was launched at halif-past
seven this morning over a front ex
tending 20 miles north of the Somme.
The assault was prec-.ded by a terrific
bombardment. - The British troops al
ready have occupied the German front
line and have captured many prison
ers.' ..-.-( .
The. terrifice. bombardment which
preceded the attack lasted about an
hour and a half. It is too early as yet
to give any but the barest particulars
of the fighting which is developing in
intensity; The British casualties have
so far been comparatively Jight,- ac
cording to official report. .
Simultaneously with, the launching
of the British offensive Freneh Infan
try 1 advanced -. to .the attack. This
movement- of French , troops was in
augurated over a section of the French
line adjoining the junction point with
the British front.
A. raid by Australians and New Zea
land troops , on the German lines last
night resulted in , the killing of about
V German soldiers, including two offi
cers. The British casualties were
slight.
to have swayed ,in favor of the de
fenders. " ' " ,
The great 'offensive undertaken by
the British offers, according to reports
from the front and the comments of
military critics, an absolutely new de
parture in the tactics hitherto pur
sued by the belligerents. Contrary to
the favorite tactics of the Germans,
the British did not attempt a partial
advance by massing their artillery at
a given point on the line and follow
ing an intense bombardment by an
infantry attack in seried columns.
Employing an enormous number of
guns, the British maintained a. con
tinuous bombardment of the German
lines along the entire 90 miles of at
tack. They sought to level the Ger
man .- trenches and destroy the con
crete fortifications which sheltered
the German machine gun squads.
Y Fire also was directed against the
German barbed wire entanglements.
In the evenings following this daily
artillery storm raiding parties dashed
out from the British lines to com
plete the destruction, wrought by the
big guns. In this way the British
claim that many prisoners were taken,
machine guns destroyed or captured
and the entire defense of the Germans
demoralized. ' , A French officer who
witnessed this plan of operations de
scribed it as "the "last word in scien
tific warfare."
The last considerable offensive un
dertaken by the British was a drive
in force at Loos in September, 1915,
In conjunction with a similar French
effort in the Champagne district. The
British captured Loos and claimed to
have taken 20.000 German prisoners
and many guns.
ALONG THE SOMME
FIGHTING DESPERATELY,
GERMANS AGAIN CAPTURE
itltJES NEAR THIAUMONT
Paris, July 1 After several furious assaults , the Germans
succeeded in penetrating the works around Thiaumont which
were captured by the French, according to an official statement
issued by the war office today. ' ' y . s. V ' ,' '
The approaches to i Thlamont are
still in the hands of the French. '
On the west of the Meuse fighting
Of great violence lasted throughout
the night in the neighborhood of the
Ksnes-Avocourt road. The. Germans
attacked heavily both east and west
of Hill 304 but most of their attacks
were repulsed."- Nancy was bombed
LAKE TORPEDO BOAT CO.
PLANNING TO CONSTRUCT
UM DESTROYERS HEftE
, The Lake Torpedo Boat Co. of this
city,, plans to build torpedo boat des
troyers at Bridgeport. In the forth
coming bidding for 'battleships, cruis
ers, destroyers, and submarines called
for in the navy appropriation hill, re
ported to. the Senate in Washington
yesterday nearly $550,000,000 worth
of work is considered. -
" Of this amount about $50,000,000 Is
included for submarines and destroy
ers alone. Fifty torpedo boat destroy
ers, nine ; fleet submarines and . 68
coast submarines are called for.
The Lake Co. has been rapidly add
ing to Its equipment in this city and Is
now said to have 30 acres of ground in
the plant here with ways already built
for an equal number of submarines
and for about six destroyers." '
Unofficially it is stated by those con
nected with the plant that it has long
been the purpose of the Lake. Co. to
extend Its capacity and to - bid f ot
boats . larger ' than the submersible.
With the great, shortage of ship-building
plants In the country, a magnifi
cent physical, equipment here capable
of pushing the work jto rapid comple
tion, there is no question in the minds
IMPROVEMENT IN
WEATHER HELPS
CHECK EPIDEMIC
Spread of Septic Sore
Throat Not So Rapid As
, ' In Last Two Weeks.
Health officials of the state, county
and city have not been able to name
specifically the disease germ that is
causing illness and deaths from septic
sore throat in this and other cities
throughout the state.
Wth New Haven and . Bridgeport
partially recovering ' from the epi
demic, due it is said, to the improved
weather, the Norwalks begin to worry
because of the appearance of sore
throat in that city. Its growth in
those towns is ascribed to the many
persons j who commute- between
Bridgeport daily and who believe that
they have drank infected milk here.
In an effort to take decisive steps
towards locating the disease germ and
effecting radical means of stamping
out the epidemic, state, county and
Ideal health officers will meet in . Mil
ford on Monday. Dr. J. T. Blaok. sec
retary of the state health board;
George B. Hill, county health officer,
and Dr. Edward A. McLellan, the city
health officer, will be present.
William L. Zepp, a member of the
Bridgeport health board, today said
that what is needed in this state is a
districting of all farming communities
under state inspection supervision. Un
til this is done and the communities
assured that milk coming for distribu
tion has been produced under sanitary
conditions, this and other cities will
spend large sums of money upon in
spection that Is not adequate for the
purpose and prevents the use of mon
. - (Continued on Page 9.)
- THE WEATHER
. Forecast: Generally fair tonight
and Sunday.
by the German long range guns.
- After four violent attacks with li
quid fire, . the Germans succeeded in
capturing the position east of Hill 304
which, was taken by the French, yes
terday. The French made a counter
attack and recaptured the . position,
according to an official statement Is
sued by the war office.
of naval experts identified with the
Lake interests that the local company
will get," as heretofore, its share of
the awards. .
As there are only two actively com
peting submarine plants in this coun
try and -about 70 submarines to be
built within the next three years none
of which is to cost less than $700,000
and the largest not to. exceed $1,200,
000, and 60 torpedo boct destroyers to
cost approximately the same' as the
larger submarines, it is onservatively
estimated that Bridgeport will" get not
less than $15,000,006 worth of work
and possibly even larger amount.
The recommendations looking
towards making the American navy
the second largest in the world, made
at Washington yesterday cover ap
propriations of $315,826,843.55.
The money will be spent during tfi"e
fiscal year beginning today. It is
$45,830,83.81 greater than the aggre
gate carried by the bill as passed, by
the House on June 2. The general
idea is to build within three years all
the units heretofore proposed to be
built within five years. All work
must begin within six months from
date. " i .- . '
CORSET MAKERS
COMPLETE DEAL
FORNEW PLANT
Birdsey-Somers Co. Acquires
Factory Building and Ad-
joining Property.
At a final conference held yesterday
afternoon, the Birdsey-Somers Co.,
manufacturers of corsets, completed a
deal by which it procured the large
factory at Connecticut 'avenue and
Logan street, and two adjoining pieces
of property.
Moving front the University of Cor
sets, which has been sold to the Amer
ican Graphophone Co., began today
and it is expected that by July 5, man
ufacturing in the new factory will be
in full swing. In the meantime, spec
ifications are beii'V considered for two
additions that will provide floor space
ample for carrying on the hig bus
iness. . ' ''
Before the end of this year it is ex
pected the output of the Birdsey-Somers
cx. will be greater than at any
time in Its history.
The building at Connecticut avenue
and Logan street formerly was Tccu
pied by the Bridgeport Pattern &
Model Co. The latter concern is nego
tiating for a factory in the West End.
Springfield Club
Here Tomorrow
The Springfield club will appear at
"Newfield park tomorrow afternoon to
play against the Bridgeport team in
a regularly scheduled Eastern league
contest. Owner Cornen, who is With
the "local club on the' road, wired to
this city that the game had been ar
ranged. Springfield is-.jnanaged by
Jack Flynn, the formeiynajor leaguer
ana is pne or tne.-strongest.teams in
m iiiQ.v.xjLru)i69V teams in l
sue. Thejtamfe will start at J
h.t : -
the leag
1:15
U. S. S. PADUGAH
TO JOIN FANNING
FOR CELEBRATION
Government Assigns Gun
boat to Bridgeport Harbor
For July 4.
NINETEEN FLOATS
TO BE IN PARADE
More Than 10,000 Pledge
' Themselves to March in
Big Procession.
Secretary of the Navy Josephus
Daniels has assigned the gunboat Pa
ducah to loin the torpedo boat de
stroyer Fanning in Bridgeport harbor
during the AmeVican day celebration.
July 4. Both vessels are expected in
the harbor Monday afternoon and an
entertainment committee has been
named to greet them while here. .
Grand Marshal Louis J. Herrmann
today made public the official orders
for the parade formation.
The industries of Bridgeport alone
have pledged 10,885 men for the pa
rade, including, 15 individual floats and
have added three -bands to those em
ployed by the general committee. The
parade committee estimates 4,000 ad
ditional marchers in the mercantile
citizens' and boys divisions.; It is be
lieved that with recruits , constantly
being formed the parade; will swell Its
ranks to nearly 15,000 marchers.
' The entertainment committee, as an
nounced today by Chairman Albert E.
Lavery, includes, James L. McGovern,
chairman; Mayor C. W. Wilson, Lieu
tenant Commander ' R. H. M. Robin
son, W. B. Ferguson, G. S. Radford,
Commander W. B. Whittlesy, Colonel
S. W. Roessler. General Henrw feA.
-Bishop, A. L Biker, William EV Bum-
ham, Frank E. Clark, George xC.
Waldo,' jr., F. N. Benham, Jr.. Dr.
Robert J Lynch, Dr. Daniel C. Patter
son, Dr. F. M. Tukey, Waldo C. Bry
ant, A. H. Canfield, W. L. Norton,
John T. King, Richard' Murphy, H. H.
Pinney,. Arthur M. Marsh, "Thomas M.
Cullinan, William A. Lamonde, George
L. Catlin, George W. Finn, A. McNeil,
Jr., Carl Foster, J. Edward Elliott,
Daniel I.' MacNamara, Richard How
ell, Edward T. Buckingham, Earl M.
Christie,. Frank Miller, Zalmon Good
sell and -xenry Lee. .
TWO ARRESTED
CHARGED WITH .
ROBBING GREW
Matthew. Hassett and Harry
Walsh Accused By Vic
tims of Hold-Up.
Identified lhy the crew of the trolley
car which was held up at the foot
of South , Main street a few minutes
before midnight last night, the cases
of Matthew Hassett of 541 Gregory
street and Harry Walsh of 58 Park
terrace, were continued until Julw
under -bonds of $500 in the city court
today. George Slattery, alias Mc
Intyre, of 341 -Gregory street, is held
with the pair but he was not one of
those who boarded the car and held
up the crew.
. About five minutes 'before midnight
as Motorman Straub and Conductor
James Stiles of the Main street trolley
were preparing for the return run.
two men boarded the car and with re
volvers held them up. They took
$30.50 from the conductor, most of
which was in change. Backing from
the car, they forced the crew to speed
the car up Main street.
Patrolmen. Dunn and Simon McCul
lougn were, notified of the holdup by
the crew at Main and? Whiting streets
and with Sergeant .Poland a search
was begun. At 1:30 o'clock, Walsh
and Slattery were arrested and Hasset
was taken into custody later this
morning. '
. They say that they did not hold up
the crew, although a large amount of
change was found in their possession.
They told the police ..iat they were
in Brophy's saloon at Railroad ave
nue and Main street at 11:45 until it
closed at midnight.
It is the belief that two men board
ed the car and held up the crew while
another stood guard outside. After
the heldup they ran towards Broad
street, but as neither was masked, the
crew procured a good description of
them.
Walsh is a former conductor while
Hassett was at one time in the pugil
istic arena under the name of "Kid"
Hassett.
Siemon Employes
' To Get Early Start
Commencing next week the working
hours at the Siemon Hard Rubber Cor
poration factory at State street and
Burr Road will, be from 5 o'clock in
the morning ontil 1 o'clock in the
afternoon. This working schedule will
be continued 'during the hot weather
in 'accordance with the custom of the
company for several years,
Washington Impatient at Delay in Carranza's Re
ply to U. Si Ultimatum Memorandum Given
Out at Mexico ity Indicates That Carranza is
Preparing to Continue His Defiance and Will
Order Attacks on Any Advancing: Troops
Congress Ready to Adjourn Until After the
Holiday, Delaying President's Appearance Be
fore That Body. ,v,
Washington, July 1 Developments here in the Mexican
crisis Were at a standstill again today while the United States
government awaited impatiently Carranza's reply to the note
sent last Sunday, demanding a statement of his intentions to-
ward the American expedition in Mexico. , . ,
It was plain that administration officials were-impatient 6.1
the failure to receive any word of when the Mexican note might
be expected, since the demand for a prompt reply went to Me- ,
ico City'last Sunday. How much longer President Wilson would
consent to wait was a subject ofi much tabulation. . .. V
Another indication tending to supporfcihe belief that the re- i
ply will be unfavorable was the memorandum given out yester- 5
day by the Mexican foreign office'. ' . -i ' . '
; ' It specifically denied all the charges contained in the Amer
ican note replying to Carranza's representations for withdrawal 1
of troops and laid the blame for attacks on Americans in Mexico
on the carelessness of the Americans themselves. It is untrue, ,
the memorandum siatqd, that the Mexican authorities have pro- -tected
bandits who raided American ' border communities,, or -have
not made all efforts to apprehend them. .
Mesages received at the state de
partment from Special Agent Bodgers
at Mexico City, madk no mention ot
the Mexican answer. Mr. Bodgers so
far has been unable to forecast the
action General Carranza. Private
despatches have indicated that the de
facto government was preparing to
stand : by its attitude of hostility
toward United States troops across the
border.
Upon his return from New York,
President .Wilson wen, pver all the
advices ,t hand but found virtually
uo thing, he' did not know when he left
yesterday. - After today if it should
become necessary- for him 'to address
Congress he would, wait, until. Wed
nesray, as both houses arranged to
adjourn over the Fourth of July.
' R:S!rtAl Z"J7TJZ'i
ing the day continued to show satis
factory progress in .the military pre
parations for any eventualities on or
beyond the border. Becruting for
the regular army . increased.' A total
of 2.036 men were sworn in this week
as against 1,105 last week. ,
During, the' 100 days of recruiting
under the authority granted by Con
gress to increase the regular army im
mediately after the Columbus raid, a
total of 1 1,251 men have been ac
cepted ou,t of 69,406 applicants' for
enlistmentA New' York city led the
recruiting last week with 1,025 men
accepted. . ' V N ;
The war department issued today a
brief bulletin under its new censorship
rules. It reported commajids entrain
ed for the border and excerpts from
messages from General Funston giv
ing a variety of border reports already
covered by the press despatches.
Juarez Merchants Get
Shipments of Supplies
El Paso, Tex., July 1 Twenty-flve
hundred sacks of corn, consigned to
Mexican' merchants in Juarez, were
passed by United States customs of
ficials today after eaeh sack 'had been
emptied in a search for contraband
articles. Two days were required to
empty and re-sack the grain.
Many, wagonloads of grain, flour.
beans and similar foodstuffs have been
transported over the international
boundary, since the establishment of
what, in effect, is an embargo on large
freight shipments. Mexican - dealers
explain their purchases by . pointing
out that practically no crops are being
raised in Chihuahua. -.
Although much feeling was aroused
In Juaivz by reports that American
Marion R. 0 'Connor '
Wins a Scholarship
Among the 20 pupils from the vari
ous parochial schools In the diocese
of Hartford who took the competitive
examinations ' at Mount St. . Joseph's
seminary, Hamilton Heights, ' Hart
ford, last; week. Miss Marlon' Rita
O'Connor, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Daniel J. O'Connor, of 27 Fulton
street received one of the highest
averages. As the result or success
fully passing the examinations Miss
O'Connor is entitled to a four years
scholarship at the seminary.
Miss O'Connor is a recent graduate
of St. Augustine's parochial school
and during her matriculation at that
seat of learning she has always been
on the honor roll. She also won first
prize for scholarship at St. Augus
tine's this year.
Hold Saturday Court
' To Hear Taylor Case
Dean Harlan F. Stone of Columb
University Law School, was still on
the stand when the hearing on the set
tlement of the late Nelson Taylor's
$700,000 estate was resumed before
Judge . Curtis in the superior court.
It is very unusual to hold court -on
Saturday but owing to the importance
of the usage and the long time needed
to heai witnesses the extra session
wa'rdered. . .
soldiers near Ysleta. Texas, 12 miles
east, had fired across the border
"without cause," killing a - Mexican
custom rider. General Francisco Gon
zales, commandant, said today the
civil poplace was well under control
Yale Batteries Sent
. To Pennsylvania Camj '-j
'Camp Holcomb, Niantlc, July 1-- -Receipt
of orders sending the Yale .
batteries to Tobyhanna, Pa., was re
ceived "by Mt Jor .' JCT-'A. Bhuttlewojth.
U. S.' A., commanding this company, '
today. Tha. orders came from Major
General Wood at Governor's Island.
Major Edward.rS. Moulton of New
Haven, medical'corps, C. N. G., was
tnila. .nJul-.J . . J
Major Eart DChurch. 7 Vh. stTte
ordinance department, camp quarter
master. ,
; Officers who are stationed here are
planning to observe the Fourth of
July wfth a dinner and a celebration.
New Haven, July 1 The Yale bat
teries had 628 men today,, Just four
less than full peace strength, exclus
ive of the regimental strength. . It is
expected the peace strength wlU be '
passed during the day.
. Major Danford, commanding, has
no orders yet to move. He expects to
be in Niantlc early in the week. The
report still persists that all the Con
necticut artillery will go to Toby
hanna eventually. C
Handling of Troop
- Trains is Better Now,
San Antonio, ,Tex., July 1-r-The
movement of national guardsmen, to f
the border is being; conducted mors : 1
efficiently than ever before, according .
to army officers at headquarters here '
today. The transportation of troops
has been in the entire ' charge of the ,
American Riillways Association , an-i
routes have been chosen so that the M
troops not only were forwarded (quick
ly to their stations but alsao In such '
a manner that ordinary-train sched
ules have not been interrupted. The
traffic has been' so evenly distributed
among the roads that all have had a
share In the business. '
.Headquarters here has been in
touch with every unit of the national,
guard from the time it left its mobU -
lizatlon camp until -reached its des-.
tination. "
A portion of the New York guards
men; including the seventh regiment. '
passed through San Antonio last night. ;
BILL FOR RELIEF
OF GUARDSMEN'S
FAMILIES PASSES
Washington, July 1. The Hay bill
an' tprlating $2,000,000 for dependent
families of national guardsmen . called
or drafted in the present emergency,
was passed by the House today. The
bill,' which now goes to the Senate, al
lows not exceeding 50 a month to the
dependent families in -the "discretion of
the secretary of war.. .
INSPECT COUNTY JAIL
Secretary Kellogg of the state boarv
of health, and Supt. Johnson of the
Cheshire Reformatory, made fhetr on-'
nual inspection of the county jail yes-'
terday. County Sheriff Peose tou
the visitors through every department
and explained the system. More than
two hours was spent in the tour.
COMPLETE RUSH
ORDER.
The rush order for approximately
60 Riker trucks for war purposes hat
been shipped to Philadelphia by th4 -Locomobile
Co: The last was complet
ed and inspected hero within the stip
ulated time Other orders are expect
4 at one.
ft
A
it
