ft?
MARKETS
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 28, 25.77.
IZONA Generally
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 30.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JULY 1, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
F CAFin. FILLED VI
IS
m.
. I 5 DES
i
WANTS U; 5. Mi BUT;
SMS SCOn TOLD LIE
ARMORED MOTOR BATTERY WILL SEE SERVICE ON THE BORDER
Dim
Mexican Document Evades Request To State Attitude To
ward American Troops In Mexico, But Denies Almost
Everything In Recent U. S. Note; Denies Aiding Ban
dits, Inciting Riots, Or Agreeing To Presence Of Troops
CARRANZA SURPRISED U. S. SHOULD
RESENT HIS LAST INSULTING NOTE
, vs- it
n
1? , - i ' T f t?
i:1;'r V t-i m
tJJ-iJ Zvv-i" ttm'jaam
ARMYMER AFIRE T flll LLAUL I
SKATTLK, June 30. Fire " "II 1111111 I
late tonight completely de..t rov l it I I I I ft III I
ej I'ier 11. known as Wo On- ,w lalllllaW
i! UNAVOIDABLE
!i BD EWE BF
! nrm u
m ntPLi
rntal dock; at th foot of Vir-
ginia Street. The pier in used
by the I'nlK-d States Army,
quartermaster's department
as tht wharf for the c-able
steamer liurnside. Frequent
explosions shattered the burn-
ing shed.. senttertnK embers
in all directions. Half an hour
after the tire started, it was
apparent fiat the flames would
be confined to I'ier 11.
Declares 148 Mexicans Have Been Murdered In United States I
And Not One Slayer. Ever Attempted To Be Brought To j
Justice. Says U. S. Arrested Huerta Not To Help Car
ranza But Because Huerta Was Plotting With Germany
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
MEXICO CITY, June 3C. The foreign office today issued a memoran
dum in reply to Secretary Lansing's recent note in which the correct
ness cf assertions in the communication from Washington were re
peatedly denied. The memorandum declares that the United States
had no right to maintain its armed forces on Mexican soil.
Emphatically reiterating the Mexican government's position denying
the right of the United States to keep armed bodies in Mexico, the
memorandum denies energetically that the Mexican government has
protected those who had committed depredationt in the United States
and defies Washington to produce proof of the assertion.
CAR EXPLODES! '
INJURING
EIGHT :
RENO WILL HONOR
LATE CAPTAIN BOYD
Blame for the Santa, Y3abel massa
cre is placed on t'ie so-called Impul
sive and irrascible actions of Mr. Wat
son. general manager of the Cusihui
rachic Company, and General Scott
and General Funston are accused of)
had faith and lack of honor in mislead
ins General Obregon in an alleged
evasive reply regarding the crossing
of American troops into Mexico after
the Glenn Springs raids. .
The memorandum ass-erts that
while it is true that the I'nited States
ar-ested General Huerta. the motive
'which prompted this act was not a
pure purpose of aiding the constitu
tionalist government but because the
I'nited States feared fiat General
Huerta was plotting with Germany.
The note concludes by declaring
that the presence of American troops British
in Mexico invites rather than prevents:
raid 3 along the border. '
In part the note rays: 'j
Surprised The U. S. Resents Insults;
"It appears strange that the Depart
ON ALL THREE
FROSTS TO
ALLIES
S. P. Coach At Oakland Is
i Wrecked In Mysterious
Manner: Gunpowder Sus-1
pected Cause Of Accident j
j (By Review Leased Wire.)
I OAKLAND. Cal.. June HO. An ex-,
! plosion in the smokins car of South- '
-blew a bis hole in the steol roof and
MvpI hr tonight from Oaden. Utah,
it resulted from an explosive tarried ,
.caused fniuiies to eleht passonters. j
F. T. Marmiis of Ssn Francisco, j
: -l'o whs In bo r r said there a
distinct odor of burnii? ptir.rowder
pfter the ewlosion. Th shod; as'
verv violent and a sheet of the s'eel
roofinz of the car was blown in the
KKN'O. Xev.. Juin' SO. Plans
were started here today for a
memorial funeral service with
full military honors' for Cap-
tain Charles T. Boyd, killed at .
Carrizal. Captain Boyd was
commandant of the University
of Nevada cadets for four
years. The plans for the ser-
vices are supported by alumni
cf the university who received
their military training under
Captain Boyd.
iKEEP MEXICANS
OUT 10 FLED
WILSON SAYS
BE
IT MAY
NECESSARY
i
FEARING
WAR
CONGRESS TALKS
BOND
President Dwells At - Length 1
On Mexican Crisis In a I
Speech Before Press Club
. i At New York City
U. S. Turns Down Applica-: . . .
Hon For R.;n EVERY ALTERNATIVE
From Those wtffiZ TO BETRIED FIRST
To Take Up Arms War - r, MatJe.
Difficulty Is To Stay Out;
But Honor And Life Shall
Be Protected, He Says
Advance News On Carranza's
Retort Sees Defiance
Hurled At U. S Demands.
Issue Thought Sidestepped
PROMPT ACTION IF
REPLY UNFAVORABLE
Wilson Prepared To Take
Matter Before Congress
Today If Note Benrs Out
Tone Forecast In News
, fir and fell more than 100 feet
wboro the train was standing.
from
ment of State of the I'nited States'
should be displeased with thf tone of KOLOMEA CAPTURED
the note of this government of May
22. which it terms discourteous, when
trians In Trventino
the same deDartment had addressed
to the constitutionalist government. TMaumont Woods Regained i fart
nui uue uui many notes in tone not
only discourtedus' but threatening.
Says Mexicans Slain In U. S.
"During the period alluded to In the
note. 14S Mexican citizens have been
murdered in American territory by,
American citizens and even by the '
authorities of the United States, this
despite the fact that both nations
were in a state of peace and, in none .
of these cases, despite repeated re-j
monstrances by the Mexican ambas
sador at Washington, have anv of the
guilty been exeniplarily punished. j
Says U. S. Charges Untrue
"It is untrue that the Mexican gov
ernment has protected in any in
stance criminals attacking Americans
The Mexican government had done all
in its power to protect foreign sul
jects. The fault lie3 with foreigners.
All the ini'iT-d were Calif.irnians. I
. They were rushed to an eir.ersoncy
'hospital where it was thoimt-t that t
i noit" ncr" seriously hurt. A'l seemed ,
! to have bS'i n'or or less d:zd by
the explosion. None knew what
roused it. j
Trainmen, after a rlos" exhtviina-;
tion of (he damaged car. were nmble
to account for the explosion. The
BY THE RUSSIANS j bills and the estimates submilted to
i in the luggage of some nnssPng-T The
lhat it 'vns a rteei car, it was
prevented splintering of the
Spending Million
Shells Daily Driving Ger
mans From Trenches From
Ypres To Somme
Hundreds Of Millions Must
Be Raised If Intervention
Comes. Tax Or Canal
Bonds Resorted To
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, June HO.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOUGLAS, June CO. Immigration '
officials today refused the applica- i
tions Tor readmission to the United ;
; States of a large number of Mexicans I
who recently left Arizona with the !
avowed intention of taking up arnib '
In behalf of Mexico.
The officials hold they were inad
missible because American civil and
niilitnrv authorities had given euaran-:
teeR of safety to all law-abiding Mex
icans. Their departure in the face of ;
these guarantees were held by the '
immigration inspectors to ' indicate
fersonaI hostility to the 1'niterl
States.
Hundreds of Mexicans who hurried
1 ly left Douglas during the last week
were said to be making their way
I back toward the border. The Sonorn
(By Review Leased Wire.)
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, June 30.
While administration officials
manifested impatience today over
the delay of the Carranza govern
ment in replying to the American
demand for an explanation of its
purposes, private advices from
Mexico City indicated that a defi
ant answer was being prepared
there.
LANSING WANTS REPLY NOW.
The state department has had no
Mexican response will be sent, or how
be trnnsmitt"d. Secretarr.
VADV "it UruuliL.ttl
,Ct IWitCY, IUIiT O". - oim i ( if ,..,1,1
Wilson made it plain In his speech at ' . . . ' " . '
the New York Press Club banquet to ! j'"'"1 V"1 ,b' f ' " -nisht
'V.f be M n.., co.m.em.nce u ' ,io" "f A.Hondo Mexican
, and indicated lhat
Jn:i... 'hi
he did not under
took situation Is becoming acute, it
An
amendment under which Congress is is dt,pendPnt upon ' imports from this
expected to authorize a federal bond i country for food.
issue to meet the extraordinary ex-.
penses of the Mexican emergency
was reached today by adminstiatinn
leaders. Under the plan such an ls-
...... .........ii.. .......i.i i. i ' ,.. -
D 17 i i. ii r stated, prevented Fpiimenn oi uie - --- - ; - '
By trench; Italians Contin- ! roor and sit)ps and pr0):lhtv was re-,!,se ordinary resources ot tbei
Q.,A.... A,:nef Ai.e-' i,nna;n f,.r the escane of the i.ass- treasury and additional. $210.00t.'lOO '
engers ironi serious injury.
CALLES REFUSES
TO INTERCEDE
war with Mexico until there is other ,
n I l,.m tivu fr Dutflilii' .hi t.T lflir '
troubles stnd the d. lav in view of the state-
Again'he declared that he was ready ' "r ,h American note of last
to sacrifice his own political Interes ' Snmlav th:,. an early answer was ex
in order to carrv out his convictions -cted. Mr. .rr.ih.n'. who had call
as to wbat Would be the just course ' ".ounce forn ally the relea?" of
to pursue in the situation. 'h t'trral prisoners, said Ii had
The President's audience, composed '' henrd from his government oa
of newspaper men. state and muni-,'"' subject.
cipal political leaders, and other lthnn- .T-cil ent ttodcer- at
pron.Inent in public life, signitied , Mexico City wns informed two d
their endorsement of his position by i"-n -ot s ni--iit xnct to be Imn.l-d
repeated outbursts of applause. When the Mexican note that dy. he hs
he asked if the glory of America j nt no nntion of i in l-itr dis-
Sniiie officials believed It
the co"'muniriion would
(By Review Leased Wire.)
"LONDON, June 30. Success
for the Entente allies on the
three most important European
fronts in France, in the Italian
theatre and in East Galicia are
chronicled in the altest official
communications.
The Russians have taken Kolomea,
an important railway junction leading
OAKLAND.- Usl. June :!. W
Prooks. conductor of the train, re
ported to te Oakland noMc loiiglt
that thre Mexicans hoarded the tr?in
at Eln-.ira. Calif. Two of them, he
s;id. left the train at Uich'rond.
Shortlv before reaching the station
here, he found the tMrd one in the
toilet in the forward end of the smo
ker and made him nav casli fire from
Richmond to Ovipnd. The tNrd
Mexican, the condnct ir s:id. left the
to Lemberg. in Galicia. and the
Italians continue fj advance against ' train rs soon as it stonned and the
the Austrians in the Trentino region. ! exnlosion. which came in n f-w 11111
The struggle for the possession of jute?, occurred in ti" toilet wl-.-ro the
the Thiaumont wood, taken by the 1 man had been hiding.
especially Ameri.-an. who insisted up- German crown prince's forces from)
on remaining in disturbed districts de- the French a week ago. was most SUPPLIES STILI GOING
spite the repeated warnings of the severe, the position changing hands i TO COLONIA DUBLAN
government. As our own several times. I rm i'mri-s v i inm nn
Violent bombardments have marked Ri,in.,,opt ,,f f0r,, pnd niuniti.ms to
the fighting on the remainder of the (he Oo'onin Dtiblnn base was resumed
front around Verdun, particularly "on ' ,orif,v 8ftPr an intern,ntion of
; expected front the administration rev-
, en no bill prove insufficient.
H. Wliat form the bonds would take
should pn issue be found necessnry
lms not b"en determined. Some lead
ts favor issuance of some of the
Ppnama cpnil threes of which a bal-
o n ... f 1 1 1 . I l iiHil nn,n;u : V.
"'i " "i T -t '.". 1 riiinum ill I iict j
ironsurv. and others believe a sne
ct"l ei'eraencv bond shmrld be put ;
o'.if. TrPfury officials emphasized,
however, that in view of the notable
blnce close to $.10n.iilH) 000 on hand j
At the end of the fiscel vear tonight, I
would be enhanced by a war of con-' tiicci
. quest In Mexico, shouts f "no" came ; nossihie
' from all parts of the banquet hull.
I A similar response was made to his
query whether, "America's duty Is to
! carry self defense to the point of dic
tation info the affairs of another peo
ple." The President dwelt also on
MIK Ml III lhH bis efforts to serve the whole people,
I VII I Lv I I LilIU
Mexicans Arrested In U.
For Stirring Up Country-j
men Let Pio Help
Dictator Of Sonora
Mexican
citizens have suffered severely on ac
count oft he conditions of affairs, it is
hardly just that foreigners should ex
pect to be immune."
The note cites the case of f.'lias.
Watson, one of the victims of the
Santa Vsabel massacre who, it states,
insisted on making the fatal journey
despite a warning from General Tre
vino. the military governor of Chihua
hua. "It Is a fact." the note states,
"which the American military aullior
ities fni"' rtny. that on M'irch 6.
thr xii.fco'it" .-s"vl of 'rpress ml-ht j postoffice at Agua I'rieta. 1
not have to be invot-ed Mr. Kitohin ,; was issued upon complaint
tus.ority leader m the House, said:
"The pnnropriitions in the supply
Hit's rnd he estimates submitted to
Ponerss on account of the expenses
of mobilization and other conditions
nt the border in Mexico." h said.
"Miproximate f 12.".0'0.0i'i0. Thes and
all other necessary anpropriations on
DOUGLAS. June :10 General P.
Klias Calles. commander of the So
nora military, today ordered Tomas
Kspinosa, postmaster, to reopen the
The order
of resi
dents of Mexican towns south of
here.
In making the announcement. Gen
eral C."lles said he did ot learn until
complaints were made today that the
nostoffice had bee closed. Postmas
ter Kspinosa. believing war was about
io be declared, fled to Kronteras last
on tne sector ot tint au4. 1 hours.
The British are keeping up their ; Reports of scouts who exploded a
tactics of destroying by artillery fire 1 Morv tnat ,h crrnncistas were
German first and second line trenches . t,riat(.nine , rllt u,0 American line
from Ypress to the Somme. Un'jf- i of ron,ninic,ton hnve coininced i.r
ficially it is reported that the British .,n tia, fuor ia nn nrr., ,.,n-'
, thousands of whom he said are ap-,
' pealing to him lj maintain peai:e as
Slong as possible. ;
. .1 - r . rr-mA I
I have constant!- to remind my-;
From ' self." he said. " that I am not the .
I servant of those who wish to en-j
! hance the value of their Mexican in-i
vestments but that I am a servann
of the rank and file of the people o
the I'nited States." ;
Balnbridae Colby, who placed Tl.eo-j
crure Roosevelt in nomination for the ;
presidency at the Progressive con-'
ventlon paid President Wilson high
tribute but did not declare unquali-.
fledly that he would support him in J
the coming canipaiKn. as it was re-;
ported he would do. President Wil-'
s..n arose in his seat and shook hands!
with Mr. Colby as he finished speak-:
Inc. I
Mavor John P. Mitchell. Ralph Pul- ;
itzner and In in S. Cobb were in the .
party that included Mr. Wilson.;
President W ilson did not begin to
are expending more than a million
shells a day in this work.
In addition to the capture of Ko!
mea. the Russians also have taken
the town of Obertin northeast of Kolo-
rer of supply siiiipmcnts beng inter-runted.
account of Mexico whether we have ' Saturday, he added,
wpr or not. shot'ld h met by bonds." j It also was stated that General
ThP rpvonue bill which Mr. Kifchin 1 Calles hss declined to intercede io
will try to ;mt through the Congress the hehnlf of several Mexicans ar- speak until almost II o'clock,
promises to raise $lnn,O0O.0u0 addi-! rested here and at other towns in 1 Brief of Speech.
i In his address before the New
York Press Club tonight President
tini!l from r surtax on incomes. $."0.-1 Arizona on charges of attempting to
ono.onn from ap Inheritance (ax and I incite tli"ir countrymen,
about si5ft.0O0.000 from a tax on net ! Quiet prevniled tliday in the Arizona
inoniesc of war munitions concerns. I border district. I
General Gavira advised the latter n,Pa, an(J seVeral Vther villages north
that he had trustworthy intelligence
that Villn and his bandits were on the
way to the frontier. He also warned
them that Villa was going by way of
I,as Palomas thus givine the Ameri
can authorities ample time in which
to prepare to ni"et the danger.
Dispersed Villa?
"The constitutionalist government
also on receipt of the news of the raid
of Villa and rig'it after the attack
on Columbus sent lfiOO men under
General Guiterrez as rapidly as possi
ble to the northern part of the state
of Chihuahua with orders to pursue
the bandits relentlessly. It js well
known that the pursuit began imme
diately and that the bandits were dis
persed. More "Untruths"
"The imputation of th American
government that the constitutionalist
(Continued on Page 5)
and south of that point. On the
front in Russia, from the Galician :
border to the region of Riga, there ,
have been battles at various points J
but with r.'o decisive results. The .
Italians have taken Griso, and several
mountain positions southeast of Tren
Tait to Stump for Hughes, But With T. R,? That
Would be Too Much of a Circus Says William H.jJU
1 Wilson said:
I "I realize that
1 imprudent thing
have done a very
I have come to
come throne Vr Arrilnmio and that
I. .. l ....il-urv woi.M be condi
tioned on th. situation at lie time h
..w.ivr it Fffori t prmngin" tned
fpvord hv Currinza official
-i to s h.licf tht the renly would
t wirMi"ld 1 the last moment, if
tw.r., gummed anv chnnce t-t th
t-Hii.,iii o-"'-nment would listen
to such nronosN.
Prak Thouoht Unavoidable.
The orivate messages sent bv
P'sonm in a nos-tion to seeak
wi !iiit authority as to Gen
eral Cayna's Ptt''.de. esnressed
the conviction that a break be
tween the two covernments was
n.ivoMab'e. There aoneared to
b a 'imo'" aoreement ?monq
nehern of the Mv;cn cabinet.
was iieted. that orders to
Gnerl Tnv;no to attaeli Amer
!can troors movina in any direc
tion, exceot toward the border.
be reaffirmed. Some e facto of
. firJals wished to go farther and
couple with this statement in the
Mexican rply a defant demand
tha American troops be with
i drawn immediately from Mexican
; soil.
The unconcilintory character of a
I memorandum published in M-xi o
ICitv specifically denying all the aile
I gallons of the previous note in answer
; to Cirrnnza's demand for withdiawal
.of lroops ,app"ir In bear o it th;s
j forecast.
Promises to Clear Bandits.
Inilniilinnd liard i,.u..h,..l oftii'ii.t
address this thoughtful group ot n.en w low,.v,.r ,, w t),. U(.t KOr.
witnniii any preparai.-ms u.nr 1. 1
could have written as witty a
erh as Mr. Pulitzer. I would have
W;r
RRIDGKHAM PTON. N. Y.. June r!0. the train pulled out.
Charles K. Hughes discussed thej Mr. Taft appeared to be in exrel
coming political campaign for two lent humor as he aliuhted from the
tino. Their advance against the hours today with William II. Taft. 1 automobile in which the nominee had
Austrians also has resulted in the Over a luncheon at the Republican 1 accompanied him to the stition.
capture of nearly 1000 prisoners as presidential nominee's temporary sum- "I am for Justice Hughes," he said,
well as stores 'of arms and amniuni- mer slime here, the former president. , "I want to see him elected and shall
lion. i and Mr. Huehes to'ok up the chief . do all I can to assist him."
An unofficial report of a battle be- issues of the day and went over the
tween Russians and equadrons on the tentative plans. Mrs. Hughes presid
Baltic sea osuth of Stockholm on P(l at the luncheon and participated
in the discussion.
Apparently the time was too short
for a full examination of Opinions for
the conference was ovpr and as Mr.
Taft stood waiting at the railway
station for his train. Mr. Hughes drew
written it. If I could have wnten as
continued in confidential manner until I Mr. Taft was asked about the rf- clear an enuciation of the fundamental
port that he would speak fiOm the ideas of American patriotism as the
nd mavor I should have attempted, ir
Thursday has been received in Lon
don from Stockholm.
PARIS. June 30 The French forces
fighting in the region of Verdun have
recaptured from the Germans the
Thiumont wo'od. northeast of the
fortress, according to the French of
ficial communication issued tonight. 1
"Will you take the stump for him?"
some one asked.
"I shall do even this."
Mr. Hughes laughed. He was
again asked if he would make any
speeches for Mr. Hughes.
"Did 'ou ever har of my refusing
to make a spewh?" he asked. "Why.
Brother Brvan and T ar tn champion
him aside for a final word. Thevpong diptunce ypeakers tho-Jworld him. He was kind ennugb come contradictory about uie
walked 'out of ear shot of the little j We are in the 'same c'hsb. I am w(ll- dow niera and We have had a full mrg havn on me Ton
group that had surrounded them and ing to do anything that will helrC ATtuIk aad I enjoyed It very much." I (Continued on Page
same platform as Mr. Hughes and mayor I
Col. Roosevelt. I have been as appealing a person an !
"A .sort of three ring circus?" ques- of as feeling a heart as Mr. Cobb. I
tioned the former president, his eyes mould have felt safe. If I coulif have
twinkling.' "Don't Ou think that been as generous and interesting and
would be wasting a lot of oratorical genuine as Mr. Colby. I should have j
ammunition on one. audience?" felt that I could let mvself bo wttn-
Mr. Taft had nothing to say as Co out any preparation. But centlenien.
his views of political issues, nor as as a matter of fact. I have been
. , 1. 1. .. , t .. 1, , .. v. .. 1 I t. .. VtA -.....riii!Ki!iti.a which
Col. Roosevelt. have been frenuently referred here 1.1 l,"r,"J'i""? ".I!' ,
After Mr. Taft's train bad left. Mr. night and that preoccupation has
Hughes declared that statement: 'made It impossible for me to forecast
"I have wanted for some time to even what you would like to har me
meet Judga Taft. and have ao 00- talk about.
portunity of going over matters with "There- is soniethio verv oddly
ertect you
are some-Z)
rnti.ent mav give strong assurances
I in its note that border raids i'l b
prevent"! by a strong patrol of Mex
ican troops, if the United Slates will
withdraw its lorces.
It was said at the Mexican embassy
tonight lhat RO.iHit) Carranza troops
are now availnhle for border patrol
duty.
Another communication was sent in
the s'ate department today by Mr.
Arredondo protesting against the
shooting of a Mexican customs inspec
tor by American soldiers stationed at
Ysleta. Texrs. reported by Mexican
According:
to Mr Garcia the soldiers fired across
the Rio Grande at two custons of
cers. "without any provors'iou what
ovor." The body oT the dead Mexican wsa
removed bv his companion afteT dark,
rt was ssid.
(Continued on Page 4)
