zz-m mx-ma&m
5K5I2
rv iS'fgMgi
wi - - - -C-.J -
r- ,
Ktif"K
-7W?'- f- r ' ; '
"t-i V'-'Vj-'v,,-"
- ,t . i
vl. i' x
HEW TO THE MNE; LET THE CHIPS FATT, WHERE THEY MAY
VoL XXI.
CHICAGO, JULY 1$ 1916
N4 .41
Ktr-&&a
Mustering in of the Eighth Regiment Illinois National Guard
Col. Franklin A. Denison, Commanding into the Federal
Service, Almost Completed the Regiment, May Leave
Camp Dunne the Middle or the Latter Part of the
Coming Week for the Borders of Mexico
COL. FRANKLIN A. DENISON PEESENTED "WITH A FINE BIDING
HORSE, HON. JOHN P. HOPKINS, EX-MAYOR- OP CHICAGO, MR. B.
E. SUNNY, PRESIDENT OF THE CHICAGO TELEPHONE COMPANY,
DENNIS J. EAGAN", CHIEF CLERK OF THE BOARD OF ELECTION,
COMMISSIONERS AMONG THOSE "WHO ASSISTED TO PURCHASE
IT FOR HIM, JUDGE THOMAS F. 9CULLY, PRESENTED IT TO HTM
AT CAMP DUNNE FRIDAY AFTERNOON.
STATE SENATOR MORTON D. HULL BECOMES THE DENEEN CANDI
DATE FOR THE NOMINATION FOR GOVERNOR OF ILLINOIS, IT
WILL BE A TERRIFIC FIGHT BETWEEN ttttw, COL. FRANK O.
LOWDEN AND COL. FRANK L. SMITH AND AT THE PRESENT
TIME IT IS HARD TO TELL WHICH ONE OF THE THREE WILL
WALK AWAY WITH THE NOMINATION AT THE STATE WIDE
PRIMARIES TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13TH.
This week the members of the Eighth
Eegiment Illinois National Guard, CoL
Franklin A. Denison, Commanding have
been busily engaged in being mustered
into the Federal service and as the
First Regiment, the Second Regiment
are already on their -way to the Mexi
can War and the fighting Seventh
Eegiment CoL Daniel Moriarity Com
manding is on eve of departing for the
scene of action, the chances are ten
to one that the EighthRegiment "will
stack arms at Camp Dunne and pull
out for the borders of Mexico the mid
dle or the latter part of this coming
week, so the wives, the sweethearts and
the other loved ones of the members
of the Eighth Regiment had better
sleep with one eye open for awhile and
bo amply prepared to" rush to Camp
Dunne on short notice to bid those
composing the regiment a last or a
parting farewell for at almost any hour
they are liable to receive orders to
shoulder arms and forward march.
As further evidence that the best
citizens of Chicago regardless of color
aro greatly interested in the members
of the Eighth Eegiment for many of
the large business concerns which em
ploy Colored men who belong to the
regiment will pay them just the same
every week while they are away at
Camp Dunne or in Mexico fighting to
defend the stars and stripes, which is
indeed very commendable on the part
of such employers, as further proof
that Col. Franklin A. Denison is held
in the highest esteem by his fellow
NATIONAL NEWS NOTES.
Brief Bits of News and Comment
On Men and Women.
New York, N. Y. The Theatre
ilagazine for June, published in this
city, probably the most lavishly illus
trated publication in America, devotes
an article entitled, "A Unique Amer
ican 1'layhouse," to a description of
the Lincoln Theatre, ' located in West
133th street, this city. Not only is a
Picture of the thcatro shown, but also
Pictures of Ophelia Muse, leading wo
ttan of the Lincoln Stock Company,
and Walker Thompson, leading man of
the same Company. The Theatre Maga
zine article, in part, says: "Unique
among the playhouses of America is
New York's New Lincoln Theatre, lo
cated on 135th street, just west of
aos acnuc. During the past three
Months, long enough for the success of
tne undertaking to be firmly estab
ttshed, the Lincoln, catering exclusively
10 a Colored clientele, has housed a
stock
company composed of Negro
fleers under the direction of Billio
nrke, a manager and playwright of
0ng experience. Not merely as an od-
tj" in the history of the stage, but as a
ctor ia broadening the outlook of
"fy hundreds of New York's Colored
Scents, tho work being accomplished
tie New Lincoln merits attention."
thus tho Negro is coming into his
J Five years ago no such article
erring to the Negro people could
Te found its way into so high class
WbHeatioa as The Theatre.
citizens, on yesterday, afternoon he
was presented with a fine riding horse.
Hon. John P. Hopkins, former Mayor
of Chicago, Mr. B. E. Sunny, Presi
dent of the Chicago Telephone Co., Mr.
Dennis -J. Egan, Chief Clerk of the
Board of Election Commissioners were
among the public spirited citizens who
assisted to purchase the horse for Col.
Denison and Judge Thomas P. Scully,
wended his way to Camp Dunne,
Springfield, Hlihoisj5iid presented; it
to him on Friday;' Col. Denison was
so overcome with joy and delight that
it was very hard for him for a few
moments to find words to fittingly ex
press his deep and everlasting grati
tude to the donors.
A great political bomb was exploded
this week among the big Republican
politicians when it was announced that
State Senator MoTton D. Hull from
the Hyde Park district, this city, had
finally decided to become the Deneen
candidate for the nomination for gov
ernor of Illinois and from now on until
the state wide primaries September
13th it will be a battle royal and a ter
rific fight between him, Col. Frank O.
Lowden and Col. Frank L. Smith and
the friends and managers of all three
of them will turn or train their guns
or forces against each other in the
most bitter and savage manner and for
sometime it will be mighty hard to tell
which one of the three will walk away
with the Republican nomination for
governor of the great State of Illinois
"MODEL" DRY COUNTRY.
Chicago, Illinois. For many years
prohibition speakers throughout the
country have pointed to White County,
Illinois, as a "Model prohibition coun
ty." White County was held up as an
example for other counties to emulate.
Now comes tho Illinois State Board
of Health with a report on conditions
in White County that has shocked all
of the drys in the Middle West. Com
plaints reached tho Board of Health
that tuberculosis had reached the pro
portion of an epidemic in White
County and an officer was sent to that
section to investigate.
Tho report of tho representative of
the Board of Health shows that not
only is tuberculosis alarmingly preva
lent in White County,but thero aro
other contagious and infectious dis
eases; that the moral tone of the
county is at low ebb; that tho inhabi
tants are deficient in education; that
many families related by blood have
intermarried; that the crop of imbeciles
and cripples is large; that blind tigers
are numerous; that the health of many
of tho women has been wrecked by the
indiscriminate use of patent medicines
and other nostrums; and that racial
stops aro necessary by the health au
thorities to reform conditions. White
County has lost the "White ribbon"
and there is grief in the Anti-Saloon
League Camp.
PROHIBITION AND DRUGS.
Denver, Colorado. In an interview
in the Denver, Colorado, "Post," the
Right Rev. C. H. Brant, Episcopal
Bishop of Manila, said recently: "In
the Southern States, where prohibition
has almost become universal, the in
crease in the sale of drugs per capita
is greater than the increase in popula
tion. The legitimate amount of opium
calculated as absolutely necessary for
medical and commercial purposes for one
year's consumption is 60,000 pounds.
Last year over 4SO,000 pounds were
brought into the "United States through
the Custom House. This, of course,
does not include the vast amount that
is smuggled over the borders. The
use of opium, cocaine and other such
drugs is, I regret to say, largely on
the increase all over the United States,
especially in localities where the sale
of liquor is prohibited. The pure food
laws have done good work regarding
the sale of patent medicines, but the
drug store has taken the place of the
saloon in many of our cities where the
sale of liquor is not permitted."
PULLMAN" GRANTS RAISE TO
PORTERS AND CONDUCTORS.
Length of Service Made Basis for
Substantial Wage Boosts.
The next time you need not feel that
tho extra 25 cent tip means so much to
tho porter who brushes your hat and
shines your shoes on the Pullman if
you are lucky.
Porters who have been in the service
for fifteen years, it was announced the
first of this week, would find another
5 per cent in their pay envelopes be
ginning July 1. Employes who have
been in tho service longer will get an
additional 2 per cent increase for
each five years of service thereafter.
The wage boosts will affect more than
1,000 conductors and porters.
Number to Be Affected.
"The new arrangement will affect
135 conductors and 294 porters who
have been in the company's employ
fifteen years." "There are ninety-six
conductors and 223 porters of twenty
years' service, fifty-seven conductors
and 115 porters of twenty-five years',
service, twenty-four conductors and
fifty-three porters of thirty years' serv
tice, four conductors and nineteen por
ters of thirty-five years' service, one
conductor and six porters of forty
years' service, and two porters of
forty-five years' service. Julius Cham
bers of New York -and J. B. Newsome,
214 West Thirtieth street, Chicago, are
the two men who have been in the
service for forty-five years.
"The old system of yearly bonus to
men employed fifteen years or over is
automatically abolished. Tho company
will, however, continue to give free
uniforms to employes of ten years serv
ice or over and an extra- month's pay
for a clear service record during tho
calendar, year regardless of the length
of service."
Second Pullman Reform.
This is tho second "reform" insti
tuted by tho Pullman company during
tho last few months, tho first being a
scheme of offering stock to employes on
a saving basis.
PYTHIANS DEDICATE 100,000
BUILDING.
Dallas, Texas, Juno 30th Special
At tho annual session of the Grand
Lodge of Knights of Pythias of the
Stato of Texas, the $100,000 Castle
Hall was dedicated with appropriate
ceremonies. Eos'coe Conklin Simmons,
orator and journalist, delivered the
dedicatory address. Supreme Chancel
lor S. W. Green and Supreme Worthy
Counsellor Joseph L. Joaes, also de-
'-iv$Sftfc:fcjai
livered addresses.
Dr. A. N. Prince, grand chancellor,
was Reelected to succeed himself, his
election being regarded as an endorse
ment of his work in erecting tho Tem
ple. Ml M. Rogers was elected grand
keeper of records and seal and George
W. Guest was elected grand master of
exechecquer. W. S. Willis was elected
secretary of the endowment depart
ment. W. E. King, editor of the Dallas Ex
press, who was a candidate for grand
chancellor, was snowed under.
AFRO-AMERICANS IN THE GOV
ERNMENT SERVICE.
Diplomatic and consular service 15,
salary $28,400.
Departmental service, Washington,
D. C State 26, salary $19,360; treas
ury 926 $588,S01; war 176 $130,3S0;
navy 74 $52,610; post office 187 $118,
173; interior 593 $358,112; justice 43
$26,640; agriculture 164 $89,816;
commerco and labor 139 $94,800;
Washington navy yard 139 $94,000;
government printing office 361 $22S,
454; interstate commerce commission
41 $22,080; U. S. capitol 115 $73,100;
library of congress 46 $24,920; Wash
ington, D. C, city post office 171
$174,600; D. C. government, including
unskilled laborers 2,413 $1,479,000;
miscellaneous 194 $104,114.
Departmental service at large Stato
(diplomatic and consular) 16, salary
$3S,410; treasury 1,082 $743,373; war
2,342 $1,075,320; post office 3,599
$2,807,134; interior 31 $25,738; agri
culture 102 $53,217; commerco and
labor 64 $42,612; IT. S. army, officers
11 $29,295; U. S. army, enlisted
men 4,416 $1,133,766; IT. S. navy yards
and stations 2,146 $1,210,070; miscel
laneous (including unclassified) 775
$581,515; total employed 22,400, sala
ries $12,456,760.
HON. MARTIN B. MADDEN.
Member of Congress from the First Congressional District of Illinois, warm
friend of the Eighth Regiment Elinois National Guards, who sent his check
from Washington, D. C, to assist to secure a saddle horse for CoL James H.
Johnson.
COL. JAMES H. JOHNSON PRE
SENTED WITH A FINE SADDLE
HORSE BY CONGRESSMAN MAR
TIN B. MADDEN AND OTHER
CITIZENS OF CHICAGO.
Col. John R. Marshall Journeyed to
Springfield, Elinois To Make The
Presentation.
On yesterday morning Lieutenant
James H. Johnson was presented with
a beautiful horse by the Citizens of
Chicago as a token of their high es
teen for the Colonel as a soldier and
a citizen.
This horse was purchased by popular
subscription through the efforts of his
personal friend and comrade, Colonel
John R. Marshall, who for many years
associated with Colonel Johnson when
in command of tho Sth Regiment. Col
onel Marshall mado tho presentation
at Camp Dunne.
Colonel Johnson is ono of the best
informed men in military circles in tho
United States; having served in tho
9th Cavalry before becoming a mem
ber of tho old 9th Bat'allion, HI. N. G.
He is a great asset to tho Sth Regi
ment and is such a valuable man ono
often wonders who could take his place.
Ho served as Lieut. Col. (being tho
first of his race to have tho high honor,
to ones knowledge in tho United
States), in Cuba during tho Spanish
American War of 1898 with the 8th
Regt. U. S. of A, and has remained
with tho organization throughout the
entiro 18 years in this office. He is
an untiring worker and always at his
post of duty.
Col. Johnson is married and is great
ly inspired by his very charming wife
who ia known throughout tho city for
her great philanthropies. Being con
nected with many charitable clubs she
spends the greater portion of her time
administering to the poor. We wish
for Colonel Johnson God-speed and a
safe return to the friends who love
him and his own fireside. "E."
8TH REGT. MAN ADMITS KILLING
POLICEMAN.
Arthur Brown, 3628 South Dearborn
street, Chicago, recruit of a week in
Company F, Eighth Infantry, con
fessed to Colonel Franklin A. Deni
son, commanding, on Thursday that ho
shot Frank J. Crowley, Springfield
policeman, through tho heart about
midnight. Crowley was killed as ho
and his partner, Matthew Campbell,
approached a group of Negroes, soldiers
and civilians, on the Illinois Central
Railroad right of way between Tenth
and Eleventh streets.
Tho Colored men fled, but news of
the shooting preceded thorn to camp,
and Brown, with Norman Turner, 3354
Wabash avenue, and Aimer Terry, 2935
Vernon avenue, privates of Company
E, wero arrested as they attempted to
slip into camp.
Turner accused Brown, who broke
down and admitted tho shooting,
claiming that ho fired because he
feared tho policeman would shoot him.
The three guardsmen wero away from
camp without leave. Brown was
turned over to tho civil authorities.
Brown should be severely punished
for his rash act and for being bull or
hot headed he will either hang up by
tho neck until he is dead or he will be
forced to spend somo time behind the
bars in tho pen at Joliet. Col. Denison
deserves to be highly commended fox
promptly turning him over to the civil
authorities for punishment. Ed.
I
V
. !v
& . -4bll
..,.
4UKI
