I
American .. bork CitizejL :i
I AMI2U1CAN I'OUK CITIZEN, SATURDAY, JUA 1. 1910. NUMI1KU 11 j
I , iii -j "mmTm7TTTm? m "" ' L-M"MM7"1 ' imiiiiM - , ,,n 1,,
John Cleghorn Guts
I Belorphan Fissure
I WSTUmEOOPNTTO OUB INTER.
I The host news that has conio out of the Canyon since tho
I nnounccincnt of Peter Miller's cutting tho Pacific fissure, was
I fho announcement Saturday that John Cleghorn had broken
I fn tho Belorphan fissure and was taking out lead and cop
I ncr 'glance ore. Samples that were brought down bear a ro
I nmblcnce to tho general class ore that is now being mined in
I tho Pacific. One assay shows values in silver and copper of
4405.19 per ton.
I Thc bin vein has ca cr0BS cut
I ,or twelve feet without yet reaching
to hanging wall. It Is nil filled with
m bearing material apparently yof
I milling grado with rlba of lead ore
I ll samples of gray copper, unciucs-
tionably running high In Bllvdi-. No
-1, cstimnto can bo mado of tho strike
mi tbo hanging wall is reached and
the vein has cn drifted on. Tho
I first thing to ho dono will bo to rnlso
I j feet to tho surfneo for air, after
I which tho mon will run a drift to tho
I north. Manager Cleghorn went to
Silt lake, with samples of tho rock for
I issay, and may put men to work both
I drilling and upraising when ho rc-
I tonis- .. .
For tho past four years Mr. Clog-
I torn has been searching for this oro
H ud hla many friends will congratu
H hie his roward for patient prospect
I lug. Mr. Cleghorn made a fortune In.
H SeTen Troughs and spent It all In tho
I nlnlng game. If tho Ilclorphan strlko
H holds out his Seven Troughs luck may
prove to bo but a tithing of his luck
H in Mary Ellen Gulch.
Old timers glory In telling how, In
H the early days, hundreds of thousands
H ol dollars worth of lead silver bould
H era oro picked up In tho I.lvo Ynn
H tee Gulch and shipped to tho smelter.
Every year since tho early settlors
H tint found this rock miners have been
H mating tunnels Into tho hills vainly
H trying to locate tho sourco of this
H ere. Finally they camo to tho con
fl elusion that tho oro had been mado
V la tho f olualilo llmo which being crod
fledawaylmd left tho ore, lying In tho
S dirt. From tho fact that tho Old Mlllor
Hill, closo by had produced $2,000,000
H (rem bodilliur In tho lime, mado tho
aB average Canyon prospector think that
H tte lime was the only formation that
H produced ore
H Peter Miller camo into tho canyon
two years ago and commenced drlv
H Is; his long tunnel Into the qunrt-
( H lite, and when ono year ago, ho open-
Hedthc Pacific fissure 400 feet docp In
i B the quartzlto, ho upset nil tho old
llffNIN COMPANY
1 FILES ARTICLES
Jm Vit Cudiiiiii) Claims' to Unto Ilelor
V I'iun FisMiiv llosldes n Thlrly-Fho
Tool Slit it Vein,
' The l.axaun Mining Company filed
Itiartlck) of Incorporation with tho
H secretary or 8ato this week. Tho nr-
Uclu provide, for n compnny with
IWO.OOO Blinr..3 C40.000 of which ro
Bwia In the iro-sury for dovelopmcnt
'''trPce Tho pinco of business Is
I'm American Lvu nnd tho llfo of tho
arany in i,f 100 years. Tho com
jB b fnrn-l to oncrnto tho l.avaun
"U0"! of '! nM adjoining tho Holor
V; "' ' linos aro but 1,000
jMic" Ircn . Il)c uPiorpimn Htr0
JmJ'r dp iircetly on tho striko
lt8lif, r. Tho property nlEo
JWn o 3 r,Iir 0llB0 rHnnB ,.
imJ ? S ""'' 4 ,,ni'PS ' vor and
...chwas '" l'h a 7D0 foot tunnol
tfHtnii """ " T,1,B ol1 tm,no1
' b0"'lmbrrrd where th0 sets have
i0 ttcdout an.i thr en veil portion will
5 cleaned uut n tlmt this big
li.V,an lP rri"ldcd to ilotormlno
'(iD! '"""ne proposition. Tho
., ,n,,,mi"" also Is to Rtnrt n
iiw T,Pl '" n" ",0 c'n'han fls
.. ,lch "M-'Tontly lies nbout 800
i, "' r,,vpr ,,onr"K cdgo.
1 fls v n ' f ",p nnw cmpnny nro
H'l' i, p",",0,: !' W. Onlsford.
1 Ht-ii ., m n"a Oardnor. secro-
'dm&, W,H r w-Knrl a"'1 Iln'i"'
rcon,i ,o tl.o lionnl of direct-
MINERAL FLAT
1 1 SHIPPING ORE
iltae?ip.n'1 ,Ml0,1,n' ,caBCCS on tl10
cklh , ' Wcnl "D tho canyon this
B:h!fPloir ii. ' ro ,oa,nB t0 commonco
m u"o oro that 1ms boon nccum-
thcorics ns to where ore was to be
found.
At tho timo Miller commenced work,
Cleghorn was mining I.lvo Ynnkco
surfneo gravel, and that year shipped
several car loads of high grado lead
boulders, ono of which wclghod C7
tons. All this tlmo ho wns trying to
find tho sourco of tho Ynnkco ore,
and Miller's success caused him to
search for It In tho quartzlto. Ho
ran a tunnel "Just below whoio the
highest boulders wcro found nnd last
fall opened a Northeast Southwest
flssuro which was 15 feet wide, con
taining samples of galena similar to
that found In tho over burdon bolow,
and four feet of which contnlnod sam
ples assaying 1S5 ounces In silver. In
tho mcantlmo Mr. Cleghorn by pur
chaso and location had secured a
group of lfJ claims surrounding tho
Ynnkco on tlirco sides. Thoso ho or
ganized Into tho Ilclorphan Compnny,
nnd Inst fall stnited n tunnel near tho
Yankee sldo lino to cut tho flssuro.
Never for a momont hns ho doubtod
his ultimate success, and for tho pnst
povo-al months this paper has been
telling Its readers that tho Ilclorphan
would bo tho next big mlno to bo op
encd in tho ennyon, nnd hnvlng mado
n careful oxaminntlon, wo now bo
llovo that tho Bolorphr.n will rival the
Pacific flssuro as to size, length nnd
richness. Others who nro acquaint
ed say that tho l.avaun on tho north,
nnd tho Globo nnd Knrl-Eaglo on tho
south will got tho snino flssuro and
probably bo equally ns blgmlnosJUHt
ns the Copper Glnnco on tho north nnd
tho Miller Hill, Whirlwind nnd Dutch
man on tho south of tho Pacific nro
Buro to got tho Pacific vein.
Kveryono in tho Canyon will wnleh
with keen Interost tho developments
of tho Ilolorphnn strike. If It proves
John Cleghorn's theory to bo corroct,
It will bo tho means of doubling tho
Interest In American Kork Canyon ns
ono of tho Stnto's best camps, and will
glvo nn electrical Impetus to forty
others who nro opening properties
hnvlng mineral showings.
ulntlng nt tho mlno during tho work
of tho pnst winter.
Tho property Is being worked under
Ienso nnd is Bnld to contain sovoral
good oro bodies recently opened up.
Thrco weeks ago, only tho clap boards
on tho roof of tho company's boarding
house could bo seen nbovo tho snow j
which accounts for not dotting tho
oro out soonor. From now on, tlio
lensors propose getting tho oro out nt i
n moro rapid rate ,
RICH MADE OIRECTOR !
BAYJIATE MINE
At n meeting of tho liny Stnto ofil
olals this week, Uon C. Well, u prom
inont Salt I.ako lawyer, was mado n
director In tho Hay State mlno In tho
plnco of J. K. Honnott, resigned.
Tho company nlso voted to ponnlt
tho Mlllor Hill Exploration Compnny
to locnto Its tunnel slto on Hay Stalo
ground. Tho tunnol is bolng driven
west Into Mlllor Hill territory to cut
tho nutchinan-Pnciflc flssuro nnd tho
thrco shifts being worked by contract
or Kmll Nelson aro going Into tho hill
nt tho rato of C to S feet por day.
Mr. Nelson Is also tho contractor
who Is pushing tho lower Day Stato
tunnol now In tho hnrdost kind of
rock. On tho principle Hint tho dnik
ost hour Is just beforo tho dawn. I3ay
Stato oxpecla to cut tho porphry nnd
easier ground nt nny shift now.
SMUGGLER USES
POWER DRILLS,
Robert Horrlck, malinger of tho
Smugglor proporty. located Just bo
low tho Pittsburg mlno, will horoaf
tor doublo tho progress with which
It pushos Its tunnel Into tho Pitts
burg contact. Early In tho woolc
tho company sent n gnsollno ongino
up tho canyon, which will bo used
to gencrnto air for ft compressor
drill, Tho Smuggler intends pushing
work vigorously nil summor,
ALL HONOR DUE
OURJOLUNTEERS
Set en Offer Sen ires for Coimlry's
Defence SK nro Accepted nnd Aro
Now In Hie llnnks.
David Hunter, son of YV. W. Hunter;
Iconartl Adams, son of Mrs. Carollno
Adams; Iloyd Jnckscn, grand-son of
Mrs. Carollno Adams; Davis Chlpninn,
son of Stephen D. Chlpman; Itecd
Dunklcy, son of Mrs. Allco Dunkloy;
I.oltoy Mncklln, son of William Mnck
lln, and Louis Stcgsol', constitute
tho honor roll of American Fork, who
answered President Wilson's call for
volunteers to defend tho Mexican
border agalnBt Mexican invasion. The
first three left Monday night to Join
their troop In Salt I.ako, tho second
three loft yesterday. Louis Stcggoll
was refused becauso of an ailment
of tho hand, but hns boon undergoing
a treatment for tho aliment nil weeV
nnd will try again todny.
Mayor Hunter and a committee of
leading citizens worked hard to In
crcasa tho number nnd it nny bo that
others will enlifit later.
A farewell party was slvcn In honor
of tho boys Monday night In tho Apol
lo Hall, which with tho music, was
donnted free. Thirty-thrco dollars
was given tho boys with n shower of
love and good wishes by tho girls. As
they left tho stntlon there wcro lots
of tenrs and kisses and tho boys lmvo
tho best wishes and respect of tho
ontlro community.
Frank Crookston, who was n mem
ber of tho National Guard from Mt.
Pleasant was rejected becauso of
his short staturo, but Frank Is a good
druggist and it Is reported that ho
will go as a member of the hospitnl
corps.
Lloyd DuiTlii who lived hero until
n year and a half ago but who now
resides In Salt Lake, was among thoso
who enlisted nt the Capitol.
WILL CELEBRATE
THE TWENTY FOURTH
r' .. w i ' "'" ithHTfiTHpii)rT'7
, Tho people of American Fork will
not hold nny formnl celebration on
tho Fourth of July this year. They
will go to tho lako and other resorts
for tho day.
Mayor Hunter, when Interviewed
said that tho pooplo evidently did
not want to go to tho trouble of a
colobratlon. Ho will call a gcnornl
mass meeting nbout July 10, to do
cido whether they wnnt to celebrate
July 24th, Pioneer Day. From tho
expressions henrd, the mooting will
bo well attended nnd a big celobrntln
arranged for.
EARL-EAGLE BUYS
POWERJVIACHINERY
Manngor C. W. Enrl wns in Snlf
Lako tho past week and placed an
order for sovoral thousand dollars
worth of mnehlnory with which to o'
omto power drills. It will bo a two
drill compressor with an Internal com
bustion cnglno thnt oats dlstilato for
fuel. This cnglno Is snld to bo moHt
economical nnd Is coming Into genci:'1
U30 for mining nnd pumping purposes
Tho plant will probably bo delivered
next week.
COUNCIL HOLDS "
TWO SESSIONS
Tho City Council held two session
this week. Tho Monday night sc-
slon was nn adjournment from t!"'
regular Saturday night.
Ulshop Storrs and Josoph Nlchob
asked for tho prlvllogo of hauling lr
loads or soil from tho city garbam
grounds for uso on tho Tnbornarlc
lawns. Tho committee on public
grounds wns glvon powor to act.
Tho Utnl Power & Light Co. suggost d
a chnngo In tho street lighting system.
Hy placing Iho system on n separate
circuit it would ponnlt of more offl
ciont servlco nt no grantor cot. This
will be taken up Inter.
Tho Mayor and Council as a whole
will Investlgato clnims for dnmago
fiom wntor thnt O. P. Olson snys ho
has sustained.
An appropriation of $500 for IntoroHt
on tho paving bonds wns mndo to tho
Hcnoflclnl Llfo Insurnnco Co.
F. M. Ilrown wns granted a drug
gists license.
Tho matter of paying tho Citys
share in tho costs of tho appeal In tho
T. J. Chlpman, ct, nl, damngo caso was
-o - -$$,- 4 $ 4 -4 $ ,$
I JULY NECESSITIES j i
I - 1 ;.;
t At this time of the year "REFRIGERAT- T ,-
I ORS" are more necessary than "Radiators". I j j
f We have the finest and most economical kind of j i-
t "REFRIGERATORS," all sizes. J J
A nice Ice Cream Freez- SWAT T1JU3 FLIES Why honl up tho whole room? Whoa T i,
er is tho propor thing poiN'Ssitl you cau got " 8,naU 0il StoVO to (1 t 'h
for tlio 4th July. WE STICK THIDM your work on less expense. Wo lmvo fu
I HAVE THEM. WW HAVE TUB 1M- ii. l,t.lSt kind-Call niidueo them. I f;
I 7 1 I j?
.THAT 4th OF JULY SUIT IS HERE WAITING FOR YOU, IT CAN BE BOUGHT V
. LESS NOW THAN LATER WHY NOT BUY NOW? I
i $4 1 ;,. j
A new Supply of Stripes Sec our new GHEEN I'ii'k, Blue, Lnvcndor, Ccrese, I , ;j
t -in Skirts and Jackets. PARASOLS ami al 1 the Purft W,hto imdA"U Fanoy Co1: f J !
J ored Stockings Always a good I M
y- (OC Nifty kinds. Supply. J M
1 CU't Your 4th July "Ribbons at our Big Ked Store Simply Beautiful 10 and 25 cents. "
T4 : T 1
I iLong Silk Gloves at Short hik' SliWor' I15 (i Put on vour new Straw Bon- T M
,j Cut Prices. Shof ' la.rofot, Samllos' nett with a Black Band on it. f fi
J ., Bubbcr AVhito Solos. I W
. J jjgK
a. Sjmrt Shirts and Sport Ties for the Bovs We have them in large quantities. fMa
i Chipman's Big Red Store t 1
IlLif THE PLACE FOR QUANTITY THE PLACE FOR QUALITY 41S
$FLi "CHIPMAN'S CASH PRICES COUNT." MI
O &- O - 0 O 4 $ -fr$. $ j j i
rcforrcd to the mayor ami attorney.
Tho Judlclnry Commlttoo was In
btructcd to loolf tip tho city tax levy
assessment.
An appropriation of $25 for May anil
$20 for Jnno wns mado for tho puhllc
library. It Is undorstood thnt a move
ment will ho commenced for n Cnr
noglo library.
Thomas Hanson was glvon n con
tract to Irrigate tho City Park at 20
cents per hour.
CHIWTAXS EKKCT
LU3UIRH omci:.
The Chlpman Morcanlllo Company
Is Just completing a modern ofllco
building for its lumber dopnrtment
on tho west sldo of Merchant Street.
Tho building Is 3G by 38 feet. It H
divided Into an ofllco with storo room
In tho roar nnd n weighing room on
the north. It hns a pressed flro brick
front nnd will lmvo toilet, city walor,
1-natory and stenm heat, plato glass
windows nnd stucco work nbovo them.
Tlio building Is n credit to tho street
nnd will make a flno homo for (ho
Mayor-mnnngor.
n
No Job of printing is too small or
'no largo for us. Phono 8I nnd wo
lll do tho rest. C-tf
doom Flies
on wings of happy salihfao
tion for tho man who faces
nice fresh rolls for break
fast. Surprise your husband
some morning with our rolls.
Tho surest road to a man's
contentment is via the din
ing room. We make manv
other things to please all the
family.
AM. FORK BAKERY
Main Street . . Am. Fork.
I'ATTIJHSOX STIKS UP SUflAH MUX
All tho Salt Lako papors tho past
week contnlnod full pago nrtlclos writ
ten by C. W. Nlbloy on "Tho Truth
About Sugar." Tho artlclo was In
spired by u pamphlet attacking the
sugar companies of tho state, written
I by C. O. Pnttorson formorly clerk of Em
tho Alplno Stake. Jgli
Work Commences I
On Dutchman- M
Pacific Mill I
WILL BE LOCATED AT DUTCHMAN MINE AND ALSO "M
TREAT PACIFIC ORE ROAD CONNECTING TWO ,JI
PROPERTIES ALSO TO BE BUILT. g
im
Plans have been definately laid and the preparatory work idS
ili'linatelv cnimnencid fnj' a mill to treat the ore from 'he big 'iyH
Pacific l'i.sj;u-e. Saturday, Charles Doolitlle, Judge Gillette m
and l)v. Lamoerger of tbe Fissures Leasing Co., which has a m
ton year lease on the Pacific Aline, were at tho property and do- ?'ffl
fiuately decided on tho location of the mill which will bo built H
just east of tho dump at the mouth of the old Dutchman 3
linmnl 'IN
A contract was ulso let to John
MoTaguo to build a now road ono nnd
a quartor mllos long on tho west sldo
of tho canyon from tho Pacific tunnol
lo tho sito of tho now mill. This road
will bo built on mi ovon grado nnd tho
surveyors have boon busy tho early
part of tho week laying It out. Flvo
loams hnvo already commenced woik
on It and will probably hnvo tho load
ready for uso In tlirco weeks from
date.
The mill will probably hnvo a ca
pacity of CO tons per day. A part of
tho mnehlnory from tho old Pacific
mill will bo used. Tho cnglno wns
brought down tho Canyon Wednesday
and sont to Salt I.ako to bo repaired
for this purpose . Tho balnnco of tho
plant will como from Bingham, whore
an old mill has bcon purchased,
I Teams will commonco nojet wcok hnul
I ing it up tho canyon. Work on tho
construction of tho buildings will also
commenco at onco.
Practically all of tho Pacific oro will
bo sont through tho mill. For ovory
ton of high grndo in tho mlno thoro
Is about twenty Ions of low grado oro
and sovoral tons of wnsto. Tho two
classes aro so closoly Intermingled
that It Is difficult to scpnrato them.
Even tho high grado copper oro is
ribbed every fow inchos with rpmrtz
which may oven make It doslrablc 9
run this class thrugh a. mill. Hoeldcs tj4H
this nil oro going through tho mill " ;m
only pays tho original owners of tho '"Jffl
mlno lGo on each dollar mined. ''Jrfl
Tho mill Is also Intondod to work "fm
tho oro fron; tho Dutchman lonso and -M
may bo usod chiefly for this purpose i!M
If tho Pacific oro should not hold out. jP
Tho Dutchmnn tunnel Is being rctlmb- V-fM
ored nnd will bo in condition for use 'M
In a fow weeks. Tlio Dutchman Is 'Jm
well known to lmvo Immonso bodies of hml
low grndo oro In Us lower workings '$9
nnd somo authorities say It may bo Jxt
tho moro dcslrnhlo lonso of tho two. S
At any rato tho building of tho mill i3jsL
on tho Dutchman Pint might lndlcnlo Jfim
Tho Pacific shipped n car of Its high Jfa
grado copper oro this wcok and tho jj
teams have been taken off to work on .'ffa
tho road. This makos tho fourth carload : ,19
shipped slnco the roads wcro oponcd 'WSi
this spring, Returns from tho first Wi
two oars have bcon received and show . 'cmi
nn nvorago of about 41 per cont lond, ,j5j
14 ouncos silver, 1 1-2 por cent zinc, J
2(! por cont sulphur nnd Ifi per cont tH
iron. It Is deslrablo fluxing oro, so ffll
thnt a very fnvorablo smelting rnto 'Kjj
wns obtained. First car brought W.
$2,447.62 nnd tho second $2,080.67 and
combined added $G78.02 to tho treats I f)
ury of tho original compnny. P
