' I German Lines on All Fronts Yield Before Terrific* Afte ~"" 4 ]
-
TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — p 151
DEVELOPMENTS AT
STANDSTILL UNTIL
ARRIVAL OF REPLY
Government Awyits Impatiently Carranza's Statement of
Intentions; ' No Mention of Mexican Answer Contained
in Dispatches From Special Agent Rodgers; Private
Advices Indicate Hostile Answer
i
ARMY PRACTICALLY READY FOR ANY
EVENTUALITIES BEYOND THE BORDER
reparai ons Advancing With Great Strides; Thousands
of i ctional Guardsmen Have Already Reached Line
or J re on Their Way; Will Not Be Able to Pat Matter
«
Bet re Congress Until Wednesday as It Adjourns
Washington. July I.—Developments here in the Mexican crisis
were at a standstill again to-day while the United States govern
ment awated impatiently Carranza's reply to the note sent last Sun
dav, denuding a statement of his intentions toward the American
expedition in Mexico
Messiges received at the State Department from Special Agent
Rodgers i Mexico City made no mention of the Mexican answer.
Mr. Rodgjrs. so far. has been unable to forecast the action of Gen
eral Carrjnza, and the only intimations reaching here have been
through diplomat*: and private dispatches. These have indicated
that the deffacto government was preparing to stand by its attitude
of hostilit\Vo\vard United States troops across the border.
Upon hi? return from New York President Wilson went over all
the advice at hand but learned virtually nothing he did not know
when he left yesterday. After to-day. if it should become necessary
for .him to address the Congress, he would wait until Wednesday,
as lfuth hoises arranged to adjourn over the Fourth of July.
Report* to the War Department during the day continued to
show progress in the military preparations for any
eventualities on or beyond the border.
Recruiting glows Bis Increase
Recruiting for the regular army in
creased more thin 100 per cent, dur
ing the week erring at noon yester
day, following .n increase of more
than 50 per ren r the preceding seven
days. A total c*i 2.036 men were sworn
in J.this week Jis against 1,105 last
v c-ek. The prLeding average weekly
enlistment waalti the neighborhood of
700.
During the ®0 days of recruiting
under the authlrity granted by Con
gress to increase the regular army
Immediately after the Columbus raid,
a total of 13.251.men have been ac
cepted out of 55.406 applicants for
enlistment.
The War Department issued to-day
n brief bulletin under its new censor
ship rules. It reported that incre
ments of the California and Illinois
National Guard entrained for the
border last night and contained ex
cerpts from messages from General
Funston giving a' variety ot' border re
ports already covered in the press dis
patches.
(Other Mexican News Pnges 4-5)
THE WEATHER
For HarriHbnrg aari vicinity* Prob
ably fair to-at&'ht und Sunday;
not much chancre in temperature.
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Prob
ably fair to-nitfbt and Sunday:
Kentle to moderate north winds,
becoming \ariable.
River
The Sunquehanna river and all ltd
tributaries will fall iloniy to
ll Iff bt and Sunday and probably
for several days V mase of
about 4.0 feet I* indicated for
HarrUbui-K Sunday morn inc.
fioneral Conditions
So Important ehniijcef have occur
red in the distribution of atmos
pheric pressure over the United
States during the last twenty,
four hours; it la highest over the
Susquehanna Valley and the I.ake
Region and lowest over the ex
treme Southwest.
Showers have fallen generally In
the Lower Ohio Valley and In the-
Atlantic State from Virginia
southward and locally In the
fiulf States, and scattered show
ers are reported from Wisconsin,
South Dakota, and more rain fell
along the Pacific coast front Cali
fornia northward.
It Is 2 to 12 degrees warmer over
nearly all the territory- west of
the Mississippi river. The tem
perature continues moderate over
the eastern part of the country
and Is 2 to <1 degrees lower than
on Friday morning In the In
terior of \'ew York and over
nearly nil the territory south
and cast of the Ohio river.
Temperature: P a. ni-
Sun: Rises, 4:41 a. n*l sets, 7:37
P- m- w _
Moon: First quarter, July S,
a. m.
River Stage: 5.3 feet low
water mark.
Yesterday'a Weather
nighest temperature
"Lowest temperature.
Menn temperature. 'P
_ Normal temper**'"- TS,
|
At the Seashore or op in the
mountains, no matter where you
go to spend your vacation, the
Harrlsburg Telegraph wW he sure
to reach you every day. Your
vacation will not he complete un
less your favorite newspaper
spends the time with J OU -
Drop n postal or call the Circu
lation Dept.
BY CARRIERS « CENT? A WEEK.
SIMiLE COPIES 2 CEXTS.
Villa Rumored to Be
in Command of Carranza
Force Near Chihuahua
By Associated Press
El Paso, Texa3, July I.— Twenty-five
hundred sacks of corn, consigned to
Mexican merchants in Juarez, were
passed by United States customs of- !
fioials to-day after each sack had been !
emptied in a search for contraband |
articles. Two days were required to |
empty and resack the grain.
.
A rumor was current in Mexican
circles in El Paso to-day that Fran
cisco "V illa had taken charge of the
Carranza force of 15,000 men being
collected at Hustlllos, about seventy
miles west of Chihuahua City on the
line of the Mexico Northwestern rail
way. Authorities in Juarez, however,
declared the report unfounded.
Prepare Against Fire
and Accident on Fourth
Although Chief of Police J. T. Zeil
and Fire Chief John C. Kindler do not
expect any trouble on the Fourth of
July, precautions are being taken to
prevent accidents or fires.
• Zeil has instructed his men to
make arrests of all persons caught
shooting revolvers, pistols and cap
pistols in the city, and also to arrest
any dealer who sells fireworks of anv
kind with the exception of sparklers
and red fire. The entire' police force
has been ordered to keep a close watch
and arrest all offenders. It is believed
j that some of the fireworks are pur
: ' hased outside of the city, but the
police are determined to halt the prac
tice of shooting in the city limits.
HTGFIKS WORKS OX SPEECH
By Associated Press
Bridgehampton, N. Y., July 1.
Charles E. Hughes Is working to-day
on hii= speech of acceptance of the
: Republican nomination for President.
A Ms portfolio of notes and letters
made or recevied since he was nomi
nated furnished material for the docu
made or received since he was nomi
ment. Several days at least will be re
nite date has been, set for the noti
likelihood of deviation from the tenta
tive date or July 15.
DAIGHFKTY AS ARBITRATOR
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C., July I.—Harry)
K. Daushorty, of Grove City, Pa., was j
named to-day by the United States!
Board of Mediation and Conciliation j
as the neutral arbitrator between the \
New York Central and Nickel Plate
Railroads and their telegraphers in
differences over wages, vacations and :
pay for Sunday work. W. J. Fripp, j
general managct of the New York j
Central lines east, and E. J. Manion, |
vice-president of the 'Order of Rail-]
road Telegraphers, previously had been
agreed upon as arbitrators.
PA. TROOPS FIN INDIANA
Indianapolis, July 1. Pennsyl-j
vania troops destined for the Mexican ;
border began passing through In
dianapolis to-day. One train loaded
with soldiers from Pittsburgh and!
Philadelphia passed through this!
morning and three other trains were
expected during the day.
i4.2n«,000 HVI.F.S OF COTTON
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C., July 1. This !
year's cotton crop was forecast to-day I
at 14,266,000 bales by the Department
of Agriculture, which estimated the
area planted at 33,994,000 acres and the |
condition of the crop on June 25 at
81.1 per cent of a normal.
ACROSS THE BORDER IN MEXICAN TRENCHES
-"nir-' ■ ■■»
-MEXJC/iJfS EH TRENCHED. ®/s/rc. ScrtLy/cE..
Here is the type of Mexican soldiers, who are now mobilized in that country in the present crisis, which may
not result in war because of the release of the captured American cavalrymen on Carranza's orders.
EXPECT TO GET
THIRD REGIMENT
STARTED SOON
Final Organization of First Bri
gade May Leave at 6
O'clock
FEW PHYSICAL DEFECTS
Rejections in Second Brigade
Small; Camp Alive With
Squads
By Associated Press
| Mt. Gretna. Pa., July 1. The
I Third Regiment, the only organiza
tion of the First Brigade remaining in
' camp, is hoping to get orders to-day
to follow the First Regiment, which
J before daylight to-day for the
: border. The final steps to place the
i Third regiment in the Federal service
| are under way and long trains of cars
I wore moved in from Harrisburg to
day.
j Medical examinations are being
■ rushed in the Second Brigade, those of
I the Tenth having been almost com
pleted. The number of rejections for
| pnvsical defects in this regiment Is
j said to have been small. Property
[■Continued on Page 5]
June Breaks Records
For Lovin' and Lawin'
i Take it from Jake Alvord. Dauphin
j county's marriage license clerk. June,
I 1916, will go down in history as a
record-breaking month for affinities
I who go in for •'either lawin" or lovin'."
j The month of brides and roses just
J closed produced the biggest month for
< licenses issued in the history of the
i Recorder's office. Just 192 marital
permits were granted, some sixty-four
more than last yea rand 101 "more
than in May of this year. And June
1 divorce equrt a few days ago broke all
I previous records for number of cases.
I There werffe fifty-eight.
Graduated, Ordained and
Married in a Month
Special to the Telegraph
Hershey, Pa., July 1. The past
month has been a busy one for the Rev
John Irwin Meek, who will take formal
j charge of the Evangelical Church of
j the Holy Trinity to-morrow. Three
j weeks ago he was graduated from the
i Mt. Airy Theological Seminary, at
I Philadelphia, and was ordained at
i Reading June J5. At Macungie, Pa., on
I Monday he was married to Miss Ruth
! Waibert, of Allentown. The officiating
; minister was Mr. Meck's uncle, the
j Rev. I. C. Hoffman, of Philadelphia.
Wll.l, TATOOED ON BACK
Special to the Telegraph
Pittsburgh, Pa., July 1. An in
i genious and lasting method of execut
ing a will was revealed yesterday,
i when Dr. Schildecker, coroner's physi
-1 cian, discovered the last testament of
l-George Ballantyne Hood, who was shot
| some time ago by footpads, tatooed on
, his back. The will, surrounded by
beautiful scroll work, read: "All my
I earthly possession I bequeath to ray
(beloved mother." With the exception
|of his face, hands and feet. Hood's
body was covered with tattooing Hood
i sustained the wounds which caused his
! death several months ago. when three
I footpads attempted to rob him of dia
i monds worth 13.000, which he always
| wore. Hood resisted and was shot
through the chest and abdomen. His
, mother is dead.
Fl\n MAN BKI.IKVED MURDERED
Cambridge, Md., July 1. William I
H. Medford, clerk of the Dorchester
County Court, who was thought to have i
1 been murdered. Thursday night, was
found late last night wandering in a
dazed condition on a road twelve miles
from here. It is thought Medford was
stunned when his automobile ran into
an obstruction and that he wandered
away dazed.
PRESIDENT IS RACK
Washington, July 1. President
Wilson returned from New York
shortly before 8 o'clock this morn
ing.
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING. JULY 1, 1916.
MIDDLETOWN IN
GALA ARRAY FOR
BIG CONVENTION
Will Royally Entertain Cum
berland Valley Volunteer
Firemen Next Week
EXPECT HUGE CROWDS
Hundreds Will Be Forced to
Sleep in Fair Grounds
Buildings
Middletown is reads- for the fif- i
teenth annual convention of the Cum- !
berland Valley Volunteer Firemen's!
: Association which opens for a three- i
day session Monday.
The national colors are everywhere t
and the town presents a gala appear- !
ance in honor of the delegates and
| visiting firemen. According to the
! executive committee in charge of the
TContinued .>ll Page 11]
Pennsylvania Leads
Country in Depositors
Washington, T). C., July I.—Penn- j
pylvania leads the country in the num
ber of depositors in national banks
i with 2,021,878. This is an increase of
j 702,7 38, or 60 per cent., compared;
j with 1910. Pennsylvania leads New
I York by more than 800,000, although [
| New York increased 7!< per cent, since |
1910 and has 1,199,471 depositor's.
In Pennsylvania there are 100 na- I
tional bank nccounta for every 414 |
persons, while the average for the en- i
lire country is 100 accounts for 704 :
persons.
These facts are brought out in a i
statement issued by Comptroller of the !
Currency Williams, based upon sworn
returns of 7,538 national banks of
May 1. Forty of the national banks
failed to make reports.
The figures show an unprecedented
| increase in the number of national
bank depositors throughout the coun-
I try. The total number on May 1, 1916,
i was 14.288.059. against 7,690,468 on :
June 30, 1910, the increase being I
j 0,597,591. or 36 per cent.
Permanent Dry Bill Is
Passed by Russian Duma
| Petrograd, July J. The duma I
yesterday passed the bill permanently
j prohibiting the sale of drink contain- J
| Ing more than 1 Vi per cent, of alcohol.
The measure must be passed by the
[upper house and signed by the Em
peror before becoming a law.
According to the terms of the bill,
strong drink means any liquor con
taining more than 1 per cent, also
hol and, therefore, includes light wines
and beer. Amendments proposing al
change in the definition of "strong
drink" to liquor containing more than
8 and even 13 per cent, of alcohol were
summarily rejected by the duma, and
the bill was passed in its exact form as
drawn up by the committee.
Whistle Blasts Greet
First Penna. Regiment
In accordance with orders issued ' ,
yesterday-by the War Department to I i
railroads to withhold news regarding ! <
troop movements, the ltd went on to- 11
day. All train movements out of,'
Mount Gretm after 6 o'clock this 1
morning will be on secret orders. It 1
was said, however, that no trains were |
scheduled for to-day as far as was j
known. j i
Part of the First Pennsylvania Regi- t
ment went west earlj this morning f
over the Pennsylvania railroad. There 1
were two trains of fifteen cars each. (
On their arrival at Harrisburg the
troops were welcomed with a pro- l
longed blast of engine whistles. The t
first train arrived at 5.30 and the sec- <"
ond at 5.4:« Each train was held in !i
this city tt.-enty minutes to ice the ?
cars. £
i
FRANK B. BLACK
STATE HIGHWAY
COMMISSIONER
Member of Agricultural Com
mission Appointed to Succeed
Late B. J. Cunningham
COMES AS SURPRISE
Generally Believed Patton
Would Get the Place and
Black Succeed Patton
Frank B. Black, of Garrett, Somer
set county, a member of the State
Commission of Agriculture, was to-day
appointed State Highway Commis
sioner to fill the vacancy caused bv
The appointment comes as a sur
rContimied on Page 6] *
$75,000,000 May Be
Icked on Army Bill
Washington. D. C„ July l.—Addi
tions totaling $75,000,000 have been
agreed on tentatively by the Senate
military committee to the $182,000,000
i army appropriation bill as it passed
| the House. Members of the commit
tee said that appropriations made nec
essary by mobilization of the national
guard and army reorganization might
1 run the aggregate.up to $275,000,000.
The fortifications appropriation bill
i total has been reduced from $34,300,000
us it passed the House to $26,500,000
| This bill provides for both coast and
field artillery ordnance and ammu
njtlon. year's appropriation was
$1 7,000,000.
The Senate retained the House
: amendment providing three-quarters
j of a million dollars for purchase of an
Invention by John Hays Hammond, Jr.
for wireless control of torpedoes if the
invention meets government tests and
the approval of the President, and also
adopted a House provision disapprov
ing of speeding-up tests in govern
ment arsenals. The Senate added
$4,000,000 to the bill for ammunition.
$315,836,843 Naval Bill
Is Reported to Senate
Washington, D. C„ July I.—The
naval bill, carrying the increased
building prosfem agreed on by the
naval committee, was reported to the
Senate yesterday. It carries an appro
priation of $315,836,843 for 1917 and
contemplates a total expenditure of
$588,180,576 for construction during,
the next three years.
The amount appropriated for new '
construction in 1917 is $110,726,160.1
For completion of construction au- i
thorized this year $25,619,127 is ap- !
propriated, and *250,000 is added fori
building a Neff submarine as an ex- I
periment.
The ships authorized for 1917 in-I
elude four ba'tle cruisers and four j
dreadnaughts, an increase of three !
capital ships over the provisions of j
the bill as it passed the- House.
Motorists Can Use New
Parkway on the "Fourth"
Formal opening of the new parkway |
drive leading from Derry street to j
Reservoir Park has been fixed for Tues- I
day, July 4, so that motorists and >
promenaders who plan to have a little !
quiet drive or stroll on Independence j
Day will have that chance on the new '■
highway. Commissioner E.' Z. Gross
park superintendent, made that an- i
nounceniont officially to-day.
The City Planning Commission will
likely be taken on the official Inspec
tion trip over the road on Wednesday
Several members of the Park Advisory '
Board went over the roadway vester- I
dnv afternoon.
The question of whether or not the !
subway on the Philadelphia and Read
ing right of way can be constructed
this summer Is problematical. A con- :
rrete structure will cost in the neigh- '
borhood of $30,000, while a girder via- I
duet will cost possibly $15,000 The
Park Department expects to ask for i
estimates on both typ«s.
18 PAGES
ALLIES IN FURIOm
DRIVE BEAT GERM AM
BACK ON BIG FROM
I erriffic Bombardment Precedes Offensive Launched I
Supreme Effort to Break Teuton Lines in Nortnl
France; Advance to Second Line Trenches and Td
Important Tactical Points; Have Gone Five Miles
CURTAIN OF FIRE PREVENTS SOLDIERS OF
KAISER FROM GETTING FOOD FOR FIVE DAI
Attack Comes as Culmination of Shelling During Whit
5,000,000 Rounds Are Fired; British Employii
2,000,000 Well Trained Men; Advance to Battle
Though on Parade; New Mortars Rain 35 Shots
Minute
British Headquarters in France, July I.—A tremendous Britisl
offensive was launched at 7.30 this morning ovsr a front extendinß
twenty-five miles north to the Somme. The assault was precede!
by a terrific bombardment.
The British troops already have occupied the German fro V.l
line and have captured many prisoners.
The British already have captured Serre and Montauban. ThJ
Germans hold Fricourt, Ovillers and Beaumont-Hamel.
Reports received from the front up to 12.30 o'clock, five hours'
after the combined French and British offense was launched, show
ed that the allies had captured the towns of La" lioisclle, Serre and
Montauban and Curio and Favicre wood. The main first lini
trenches over the entire front under attack are reported to have
been stormed, and at various points the fighting has reached the
main second line.
These reports show that the French and British, at the paints
of their furthest advances, have broken through a distance of mor<-
than five miles beyond the first German trenches. Montauban ii
[Continued on Pag* 4]
9 Harrisburg.—The Supreme Court, at Philadelphia to- J
1 day, sustained Judge Kunkel of the Dauphin county court i
S in three appeals. The case of the Adams Express Company ?
1 vs. the City, et al, appealed from the Superior court was i
! I dismissed. The case is an outgrowth of the Express Com- 5
J pany's effort to have the city restrained from assessing, for ff
i general taxation purposes, horses owned by the company. I?
!The city won a verdict before Judge Kunkel, who was sus- ?
tained by both higher courts. The case of Commonwealth J>'
vs. DuPont Company was to determine whether the \
f corporation liable for a tax on a land mortgage assumed JL
; { in purchasing property. The local court decided in favor "bf X
I the land company and is now sustained by the higher 1
jL
ft tribunals. The decision of the local court in the case of the j•.
1 Commonwealth vs. the Pottsville Water Company, in |
«ndtl was also affirmed by the Supreme con;'..
iREADOPTS DEPENDENT RESOLUTION |
Congressman Benjamin K. Focht late this afternoon*
send this wire to the Telegraph: "By an almost unanimous
vote the House has just readopted the resolution provid- f
ing compensation for those dependant upon enlisted soldiers. J
It is believed the Senate will now recede from its adverse I
position on this question. '
M'AFFE BOY'S BODY FOUND? . f
Harrisburg—Edward Hauser, of Middletown, while#
boating in the middle of the Susquehanna river about 2.30 9
this afternoon found the body of a small boy believed to be f
_ Edward McAffe, 1913 North Fourth street, who was
(! drowned near his home, Thursday afternoon. The body ?
has not been positively identified. \ J
PLACES FOR RECRUITS tJ
Harrisburg.—There are still places for recruits in Com- IJ
panies D and I, of the Eighth Regiment, but applicants II
will have to go to Mt. Gretna to enlist.
APPOINTMENTS MONDAY
Harrisburg.—lt is believed that a list of appointm®
for the Eighth Regiment and other regiments at
will be made on Monday, from information
to-day. H
MARRIAGE LICENSES
Oharlen A. Snarta and Martha Barbour, city.
l'ranklln Horat, Lancaster. unU Jennie E. EUnarda, Ea.t Pcnfleld
CITY EDITJOI
