'0
W3
0
........ ... . " I
MR. MERCHANT. V I . ' ! :. 1 ' .; 1 -
vl' ' adJn .The Eagle wilt bring buyer fc nj?. LJ 7- TK1 WSATKZa.
! , ; 1 nd wllar together. v N ' ' Vf " yTSS ; onlcht.- an J E-?.V ct !
.1' : : Ik Iqlg fegb
f AND PILOT - x
iini II i i i r ill fl
IIJU LIILLIUIJ lulCIJ ntuui
FOR III EFFORT
"Quality mid Service".
We Solicit your grocery and market
1 trade.
Hardy Hewtok
-:iiifiGconoii
m STREET in
HISS
SECTION
H. eV T. C. Official Accept Ordlnajtcl
passed ty the Bity CounclUnd
Everything New Peaceable.
Government Bureau Report Shows
' 11.1 Per Cent Up to June 29 and Fu
ture Market lumps 30 Points.
UaahfnaTtnfi Tialw 1 ant wn. '
dltlpn Indicate a cotton crop of U ' A , communication received this
equivalent to 14.266,000 bales this morning by the of (Ida's of the City
year. The department of agriculture ,f Brr" ft"011 the officials of the
forecast this total production today In Houston and Texas Central Railroad
connection with ita report announe- ' Houston la to the effect that the
tag the condition of the crop of June r?;a accepts all ord.nances and trades
25 and the preliminary estimate of offered them by the Clt Cornell of
. L t. - .... t . .... IiTTin. This arrmifonf-a tu.bai.i. thai
.luit vara wthkq. iuii jrur s crop. ' ' ...V i - - iu,
' k in.iii innn .. n ini tin there Will be a mm street nnnnAH In
bale, while two years 'aro It was 16.. ! h81 of the business section of
134.930 bales, the biggest crop ever lne, f"r- "here once there was a
known. In 113 It was M.156.4S6 bals wltcn trck nlIe 'ontlnucusly with
and In 11J the nroductlon was 13.. box rar l aoon be a nice traveled
703.421 bales. street with concrete-sidewalks, the
la Its preliminary estimate of the be,n tw D'k l'n and run
area of cotton In cultivation this year,
the department places the figures at
3S.994.000 acres. That compares with
2M07.0OO acres. tne revised estimate
ulng from Anderson Street to Fannin
Btreet, between the . Central freight
depot and the Year of the Carnegie
Ubraiy and Hotel Aryan.
tf ar.rea4 In cnltlvatlon a year a to. "J' f.,'un appreciated by
mnA iin m i mm irrM k..ii cTeryTitben of Brytj that all this
In 1914. the year of record production. ' 'd ,r,,,',,la, been otten out of
37.0.OO0 In 113. the year of the n r d to know that the officials
record average, and I4.W3.000 acre n'r n, 1, ,b" ro,d are now on lhe
In- 191!. - J mo1 'rl'n(lly term.
The condition of the growing cron
on July 2t wa l.l rr cent of a nor- 1 AMUSEMENTS.
mal. as compared with 77J per cent L
on May 25 thla year. 0.2 per cent on tv ... . . . ..... . .
June 25 lt re.r. and Ml rr r.l . "'"'t let a little rain keep you
the average condition for the last ten ,ne f .,e,,2J? V the ?f.th'
Vears on Juna JS ,rtl,e and Queen tonight "The Lotus Infantry
Since tba May 25 report Was made. ., omn' . '!h ,n 'n Alice Hoi- movement the French troops was
placing the condition at 77.S per cent .'!""' "T .Mlllarde on of Inaugurated over a aectlon of French
of a normal, the weather has not been llIe .Bt J, ver shown lines adjoining the junction point
ntlrely favorable for the grpwlng." ""'' 'r-.wiin mi onusn vronu
cron it h. Wn iM i rmii url, Bnow " Great Triumph" This Is regarded as the long ex
of aatlsractory cultivation and too coo! ' " ,!ntt,!l",!; "n Queen feature for posted British offense and It Is
for proper growth. During the first S?"'1?1 '"a. dmlMlon onJT cent, known that England had two million
What Is Believed to Be the Final and Greatest
' Struggle of the War Began at 7:30 This Morn
ing When the British 'Began. Their Long
. Heralded Offensive Against Germans on the
Western FrontThe pighting Is Terrific and
the British Have Been Gaining ' Rapidly.
They Are Reported to Have Two Million
Fresh Troops in the Battle Line and Held'in
ReserveThe French Are Co-operating and
Came Thundering to the Fighting Line When
Signal Was Given In the Fighting About
Verdun the French and British Are Playing a
Game of See-Saw The Germans Claim the
French and British Attacks Were Repulsed.
p.wwmw.iM. . nuull
. HEADQUARTERS FOR
FIRST-CLASS GROCERIES
If you appreciate fresh groceries and prompt
.service phone us.
PHONE
54
PHONE
73-
. ...,w,w,i,.,iww, 'L
AFFAIRS
iT II STflTILL
(By Astoclated Prcaa.)
jgle for the possession for contalmal-
son. one end of which the British hold.
with the Germans on the other. The
French, co-operating to the south, cap-
All
British Xeadauarters In France.
Jul 1. The tremendous British of-
morning over s front extending twenty , tured Corlu and Favlare Woods.
was preceded by a terrific bombard
ment which lasted half an hour. -The
fighting Is developing with In
tensity. The British casualties have
been comparatively light but within
a short time after the general move
ment had begun the British troops oo
cuoisd the German front line and had
captured many prisoners.
S'multsneously with the launching
of the. British offensive, the French
advanced to the attack. Thi
Officials at Washington Mark Tims
While Impatiently Waiting
Oarranra's Rsply.
(By Associated Pre.) .
Washington, July 1. Developments
In the Mexican crista were at a stand
still again today while the t'nlted
States Imnatlentlr awaited r.mn..'.
reply to the demand for a declaration
or nis future policy. The messages
rrora Agent Rodgers st Mexico City
did not mention the Mexican answer.
After today, should It be necessary
for President Wilson to address con
gress, he will have to wait until Wed
nesday, as both bouses have adjourn
ed over the Fourth.
Attempted to Wreck Troop Train,
(Br Associated Prmu.)
Paris. Kan, July 1. Three Mexl-
sen
DISTRIC
IT .
RE-ESTKEO
the main first line trenches ar, r " w " .J?' ort,J
parted to have been taken. At soma1 Z,c. Z mESL FwJ?!
nolnt. h. rh.rf Ik. ' V ?!:". It was announced to-
main second i7. Th. BriiVla k.m i 7- T decIrd- the Mexicans
?JmTJJ?1 "opting to throw a switch
" r "?r:z" r '.and wreck the train.
val and are attacking fiercely In an
effort to surround it The Important
Carman position at Frlcourt may be
cut off.
Paris.
Playing 8e-Saw.
Br AsaocUtn! Preen)
July 1. After four violent
mamij fjuwarrti nm mmi. it.B I ml la. JUI7 l."-AIier lour VlOleni
m Mu.m.iit tf Ik. STmmK u. a allaka lik flm.U 1 . .1.. ....
. .1 - , .i mm wiiu iiifuii. uir lUU lll.U. ,
I . . .1 n . i... . .1 . . . . . 4 1 . . r...h v. J I... - 1 . . m I
.i'iui-ii iurir fu.i iMwuiona east oir
Arkansas Troops Ready.
(By Associated Press.)
Little Rock. Ark, July 1. Mobili
sation of the Arkansaa National Guard
waa completed today and mustering
roto the federal service has commenced.
,11
, for proper growth. During the first
Mk fnllnwlne the V. ra-wir. Iks
'. weather wsa favorable for develop
ment and the crop waa renorted Im
proving ateadlly. Roll weevils were
reported In Southern Alabama and In
parte of Mississippi. Rains hindered
cnltlvatlon dnrlng the second meek ,ln
the north and there was considerable
complaint of alow growth, due to cool
' nlahts. In nearly all sections, while
boll weevils were renorted numerous
In Alabama, and were found In Florida.
Soma damage from weevils was re
ported. Ralnr weather and nnseas-
enable cold continued during the lat
ter part of the month, checking
srrowth. but the plants were reported
Improving generally In the central
and southern parts of the belt. The
weevil wa reported In parts of Teva
and Northern tanlslana.
'In calculating Its forecast of total
production the bnreaa of cron esti
mates based Ike yield on' the condition
of the crops on June J., and the pre.
llmlnarv estimate of the acres ce. al
lowing for al'Snitoement one ner rent
from the hUnted area. The final
nrodiicllon. however probably will be
larter or smsllnr than estimated ac
cording as conditions rrom now until
time of picking are better or worse
than averaee condition.
wmu.mvii.m viii wins. Hmwn tnai sngisna ma iw. minion
TuftSfisv hrlnn Ik. mrmml Hill. ...... ' J.. ... .k. . . -M . ..
... i i.i.v mvn twmwj ivr nm up'.rxi viivrt
queen; Mary Plckford. In one of her . break the German battle Una In ths
best pictures, "Tbs Eternal Grind." to west.
the popular big feature bouse, the ' At 1 o'clock, after sis hours fight
Queen. Wednesday brings the great Ing. ths British had captured Serre
Bushman name sDeclal. "A Vlralnla'a ami Mnnt lusii anal LsKaI&sIIs- The
Romance to too inxie. Buck a treat Germane hold Flcourt Outliers and , tacks by French and British troops
haa never been offered te cryan. Be Beaumont-Hamel. Tha British, In along the west front during the night
ure to come and Jell your friends, making a fresh' attack on the latter In all rases were repulsed by the Ger-
" I peslt'ona there, le an Intense Strug- mens, the wsr office announced today.
tun "aj -kik .w. r- w . I "w vor Troops Arrive.
in f " w nil u asses r i as ill ii iiaiiai n- a, . i m .
terdar. The French mad. , "lo",' iM.M: .Jnlr ' -T
attack and again recaptured the posi-'throwh her. tht .ft.7 . ' ??? '?d school
tlon. accordlns to the official sute-niL..m.thl' flen,x' t net also baa to have their tax
ment today. The Germane penetrated
Thtamont works which the French
captured yesterday.
Enterprising Citizens of Independ
ence Petition Commissioners
Court for 1 1200 Bond Issue.
A petition from the tax paying clU
tens of School District No. 25 of
Brazos County, which Is located In the
luuepnnuence community, have pre
sented a petition to the commission
ers eourt of the county requesting thst
body to order an election for a bond
Issue of $1200 for the re-establishing
for their school district and with
which to erect a new school house.
The citizens or this community are
very progressive and believe in giv
ing their children the best there Is In
the way of an education and they
are to be congratulated on taking this
step. County Judge Maloney says he
will lose no time In getting the order
for an election through as he la a
strong believer In higher education
and t.bear tblafaa out haa called
a mewlne of tfee court rnr Vn..-
morning, when that body will 'pass on
the petition snd he will order an elec
tion at the same time and aa soon as
the proper notice can be given the
election will be held.
TAX RATE TO BE FIXED."
The August meeting of the commis
sioners court which will h mn,.ni
on the first Monday In August, will
be the time for the establishing of
the tax rata for Rraina rmnniv c.
alderable wcrs la attached to this task
aa each and every Independent school
Cle'm French Repulaed.
(By Associated Press.)
Berlin. July 1. Reconolterlng
at-
52,000.000 FORDE-MEWLIES
Dr. Weaver has received word from
Cojonel Clarence Ousley that he wag
detained In Warhlngton. D. C, and
would not be able to apeak at th
Urst Raittt Church tomorrow night.
In Ms ted Pror. O. F. Chastaln cf
tie A AM. Ccllete has been secured
to fill the appointment which I a
guarantee that there will be no dls-
"I't II- in IH 11117 ai'r.UT. I mi. "
Chastaln Is connected with the de- Hay Bill Passes House Appropriating
partment of RnglUh at the College Two Million Dollar forvFamlliss
and Is among the ablest men of that of Guardsmen.
Institution. He I a leader In the re- ,
igious activities of the College, and U..V,... Tk. it., Mil . lil" "I" "' . . r' '
STOLEN FORD IS
RECOVERED HERE.
A young man who Is In the Jitney
service In Houston, running a Ford for
his father, decided this morning that
Houaton was not the right place for
him. so without his father's consent,
decided to go to Pallas In the Jitney
he waa running. However, when the
young man appeared on Main Street
In Hryan he got Into conversation
with City Marshal Conlee and Deputv
Worley and after he refused to talk
ss arrested on suspicion. Mr. Con-'
to Brownsville
' CARD Or TMikivt
To the kind friends who were with
ns In our Jate sadness, wa wish to
express onr heartfelt appreciation.
And to the ones who made our lit
tle darling's laat reatlng place. a bed
of flowera.t may this kind deed be
answered from above.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Covey and 8on.
levied. I
POSTA RICCjjlrVtMtCREASE.
According to reports compiled by
Postmaster Astla ths receipts st the
Bryan postofflco for the month of
June Just closed show a decrease) of
1284. M. The receipts for tha month
of June In D1S were II 444 K and for
the month of June, 11, were IIJIO.
" li.-.--..MrtH..
Is a msn of the silghest tvne of rUrnn- ""'nk'0B' fu,T "'7 1 1." nl ,n telephone connection with
ship . 11. -11.0 Immediately and the above
a very lane audience r ' iwndcnl families of the Nstlonsl , fsrts were found out The father of
.,,' tiuardsmen who have been mustered the boy hsd him turned loose with
. . . ' . Intn the fixloral aervlca nassed the the limnil.n ih.t k. ..i.i . .
. . . ' Into the federal service passed tne
n ipw a""u niissea in ine rnoru , u Vm .n
l . t III.CI UUU.Q luilll. tun uiii wm".
. are apt to help an opera Jo make a hit t;,o for each family per month.
r i-i-i-n-nn n jtrij u uiniuuu j
n
in
a
i -
Wc have just received an assortment of the Vccy Latest song
' hits. Hags and ballads.- Come in and hear them.
Wc can offer you standard Songs and Ballads in four ranges.
Visit X)ur Victrola Department and ask to hear any record list
ed in tlic Victor Catalogue.
r
a
gsijaAAsssVsisMs
the limmlse that ha nnu
ii . . , ---- -"'" irmrn 10
iiuusion mis srternoon, and the
young man Jumped In and promised to
reach homo before sundown.
CROSSING BEING IMPROVED.
The I. A 0. N. Railroad la today
havlna trarel dnmiuut rmm . ...
i along the sides of the track where the
, streets cross, for tha purpose of fill
, ng In the low pieces snd making traf
lie easy over the railroad rlsht of
way. The I. A O. N. people are al
ways ready to Improve their propjrty
In Bnan.
TO REFUSE TROOP TRAIN NEWS.
I
e""1 r ni-irnanj-u-iqrLru-jTj-Lri.
Katy Officials at McAlestsr Receive
I Orders to Give No Information. (
McAlester. Okla.. July .8ectal or
, d.-rs were received by ths Mlssdurl,
Kansa and Teas Railway officials
Irlday morning to refuse to give out
any Information relative to ths move
ment or troop trains over the Ksty
Hallway. I
! All of the large railroad brl.lite are
, being guarded day and nlsht and
,etery precaution possible Is being
i taken to prevent Meil-an from de
stroying raurukd property.
We pity the poor blind women ho
never taw a barfaln In their live.
It Yi 11 Increase the Beauty
v and Comfort of Your Ilonc!
A
o
o
o
o
mi FURNITURE I
S!
o
o
o
0POOOOOOOOOOOOPOOeO0O90OOOOOOOOeOOOOa?
Don t build your home merely for out
side appearance. Make it attractive and
comfortable insido.
Our constant effort is to obtain new
designs that will meet with your every re
quirement, and with a close scrutiny of
cvcr' detail of construction in the manu
facture. Wc would like to have you call and sec
our stock of furniture those beautiful
bedroom suits in birds eye, mahogany, old
ivory and oak. Willow sets, comfortable
rockers, art squares, nigs and refrigera
tors. In our new home wc arc prepared to
show you 'our excellent lines.
"The Store That Gives Service That
Busy People Appreciate"
I-
1
,i
i
i. .
4
ii
I
VV4ssysssJS0Bi
1
