01 in STATE
UNIVERSITY
JUL.T 1916
LIBRARY
jhdDOrqV0Cdte
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
I'MI
Vol. IV. No. 11
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JULY 1, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Employees Accept New Terms
Proposed by Traction Company
Advance in Wages is Granted the Men. Better Working Hours Also
are Given. Question of Closed Shop Still Under Consideration.
New Contract is For Three Years.
A strike of street car men has been
averted. Members of the Street Car
Men's Union, at morning and night
meetings last Thursday, decided, by a
vote of 1,100 to i:i9, to accept the re
port of their Contract Committee which
had been negotiating on a proposed new
working agreement with officials of the
traction company.
The committee of the union, with Ed
ward McMorrow, Chicago, international
officer of the Street Car Men's Union,
will meet with officials of the company,
and after a few minor details arc ar
ranged, the contract adopted by the men
will be signed. The new contract will
expire June ill), 1919, at midnight. The
agreement the men have been working
under for the last three years expired
Friday night at midnight.
The minimum wage for the first year
of the new contract will be 23 cents an
hour, and during the last two years of
the contract the minimum wage will be
24 cents an hour. The maximum wage
will be i!0 cents an hour throughout the
three years of the agreement. Under the
old contract the minimum wane was 20
cents an hour and the maximum 27.
In detail the wage scale from mid
night, June HO, 1910, to midnight June
i!0, 1917, will be as follows : First year,
2i) cents anhour; second, '2?tr cents;
cents; sixth, 29' cents; seventh, i!0
cents.
From midnight June HO, 1917, to mid
night June iio, 1918: First year, 24 cents
an hour; second, 2f cents; third, 27
cents;, fourth, 28 cents; fifth, 29 cents;
sixth, HO cents.
From midnight June 30, 1918, to mid
night June i)0, 1919: First year, 24 cents
an hour; second, 27 cents; third, 28
cents; fourth, 29 cents; fifth, i!0 cents.
It will be seen that during the first
year of the new contract men will have
to be in the service six years before
they receive the maximum wage; during
the second year, five years, and during
the third year, four. Under the old
agreement men had to be in the employ
of the company seven years before they
received the maximum pay. Overtime
will be paid for at the rate of time and
one-third.
Section 0 in the contract provides that
men operating owl service shall not be
called upon to do extra work at any
time.
Must lie Continuous Ituns.
It is provided in Section 7 that all
straight day runs in the passenger serv
ice shall run through a continuous pe
riod of not less than nine hours and
not more than nine and one-half hours.
All day runs shall not leave barns later
than 7 a. m., except Sundays and holi
days, All afternoon runs of nine hours
or more shall be considered late runs.
There shall be no morning extra attach
ed. Where it can be shown that short
runs can be coupled so as to make a
full run this must be done.
Section 10 provides that clerks at
hams will count money and tickets in
presence of conductor and receipt day
cards for those who desire it. Under
the old contract the money was counted
at the Traction Company's office.
In Section li) it is provided that no
regular motormau shall be allowed to
operate a car as a conductor or a regu
lar conductor as a motorman when an
extra man is available. -
In Section 20 it is provided that all
substitutes shall be guaranteed a mini
mum wage of .12.50 a month. This is
an increase for "subs" of $7..1() a month.
Under the' new contract all members
of the union in the service of the com
pany shall be entitled to 'free transpor
tation on all cars.
Anti-Strike Agreement.
In Section 21 of the new contract it
is provided that at divisions where pay
enter cars are operated change shall be
supplied by the company to the con
ductor operating same to the amount
of not less than $10 for each regular
run taken out.
To prevent the possibility of strikes,
Section 4 provides that grievances com
plained of shall be formally submitted
tn the comnanv bv the union, then dis
cussed bv the accredited representatives
of both the company and the union, and,
if thcy fail to reach an agreement, then
the grievances shall immediately be sub
mitted to arbitration by a board of ar
bitrators composed of three men, one
of whom shall be selected by the com
pany, one by the union and the third by
these two.
If the two arbitrators selected by the
respective parties fail to agree upon the
third arbitrator within five days of the
time of their selection then the State
Board of Arbitration and Conciliation
shall select a third. The decision of any
two of these arbitrators shall be final
and binding upon both parties.
The men presented their demands to
the company two months ago. Among
the things asked by them was" that the
minimum wage be increased from 20
cent an hour to 2.1, and the maximum
from 27 to 33.
They also requested the employment
of union men only. This request was
not granted by the company, but it was
stated at the meetings that it would be
a subject for future discussion between
Edward McMorrow, International offi
cer of the union, and Joseph Ostendorf,
superintendent of transportation for the
traction company.
Committee Is Assisted.
. Cntpjittperot the miion, H. C
Smyth, president; A. I. Spradling.-sec-rctary,
and R. V. Lovctt, R. S. Mc
Caffrey and Albert Haubrock were as
sisted throughout their negotiations with
the company by Mr. McMorrow.
DPnTBQTC AGAINST JIIRT
Merchants Swoop Out Stoics As Men
I'uss, According; to Complaint.
Central Labor Council last Tuesday
night decided to send resolutions to
Mayor Puchta protesting against mer
chants sweeping the dirt of their stores
into the street early in the morning when
men are on their way to work.
William F. Brandt, President of
Teamsters' Union Local 100, was elected
to fill a vacancy on the Board of Trus
tees. Nearly 10,000 persons already have
signified their intention of inarching in
the Labor Day parade, according to re
ports made to Council by various unions.
It was decided to have James llen
nessy, Washington, D. C, former Cin
cinnatian and member of the Typo
graphical Union, to represent Council at
the dedication of the new American Fed
eration of Labor Building, July 4.
Jeff Davis, who recently returned from
a trip to Cuba, made an address on the
conditions of labor in that country.
Upon request from Michael Schuld,
liusincss Agent for the Butchers' Union,
Secretary Prout was instructed to ask
the Central Labor Council of St. Louis
to make efforts to stop independent pack
ing houses of that city from shipping
meat into Cincinnati during the strike.
SIX l'KK OKXT JtAIKK.
Chicago, III. A general advance of 0
per cent and involving $1 ()(),()()() addi
tional expenditure has been given all
station agents and telegraph operators
employed by the Illinois Central Rail
way system. Those who are teleg
raphers will have their hours of work
shortened from one to two hours.
The agents have been in conference
with officers of the road for several
weeks, and the advance is the result of
these meetings. The menin some cases
asked for advances as high as 1.1 per
cent, but after going over the situation
thoroughly the 0 per cent agreement
was reached.
MOItK l'AV IS DNMAXDKI).
Little Rock, Ark. Eight hundred
miners employed by the American Baux
ite Company, at Bauxite, struck, June 27,
for an increase of from $1.7.1 to $2.2.1
a day. The plant will be closed until
the men are ready to return at the old
wages, it was announced.
"To my mind the contract is satis
factory to the large majority of the
men," said Mr. McMorrow. I feci that
the new relationship between the com
pany and its employes will insure har
mony in the future and better street
car service to the public. I am pleased
with the frank and fair manner with
which the traction company officials met
with the committee of the union and
myself for a discussion of the new
agreement."
The men's ready acceptance of the
new contract was due largely to their
desire not to inconvenience the public,
as was the case three years ago.
Throughout the negotiations the cooler-headed
among them had control of
the situation, and at no time did any
friction of any consequence develop.
Mr. McMorrow advised throughout
that the men meet the company on com
mon ground and be prepared to give
and take in order to expedite its nego
tiations. Sneakers at the meetings besides Mr.
McMorrow and officials of the Street
Car Men's Union were James Wilson,
international president of the Pattern
makers' Union, and Thomas J. Don
nelly, secretary and treasurer of the
Ohio State Federation of Labor.
' ' Arr.'-"MdMoiTOv".wiU'.romsiin iii the'
city to assist the motormen and con
ductors over the river who arc nego
tiating a new working agreement with
officials of the Green Line.
SETTLEMENT REACHED
Uy Wholesale Heel' liutcliei-s On
Closed Shop Demand.
Wholesale beef butchers, not involved
in the strike of butcher workmen, held
a conference laM Thursday night at the
Brighton Hotel with a committee of
the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and
Butcher Workmen, Local Union No.
232, on proposed working agreements.
In the proposals the men are requesting
a closed shop and an increase in wages.
Michael Schuld, business agent for
the union, said a settlement was reached
on the closed shop demand, but the
wage scale would be subject for a con
ference next Thursday night, at which
time both sides expected it would be
settled. William Erhard is chairman of
the Beef Butchers' Committee.
Business Agent Schuld reported a
good many of the striking butcher
workmen had left Cincinnati to take
jobs in other cities.
GAS COMPANY SELLS
BIG BLOCK OF STOCK,
WIPING OUT DEBTS
Officials and directors of the Union
Gas and Electric Company Thursday
announced that the company had sold
to strong interests, for investment pur
poses, the 11,913 shares of the Cincin
nati Gas and Electric Company stock
previously owned by the company.
The proceeds of the sales will enable
the company to pay off its entire lloat
ing indebtedness. The transaction was
a matter of congratulation by the offi
cials. The sum involved is approxi
mately $1,000,000.
A pleasant feature of the matter is
the fact that the stock, by going into
strong hands as an investment, will not
be a menace to the market at any time.
The slock is a block issued and placed
in the hands of the Union Gas and
Electric Company under a contract be
tween the companies, bv which the
leasing company is reimbursed for
money spent in extensions and perma
nent additions to the property of the
lessor company.
STItllvKKS OPKKATK WAGON'S.
The members of the Teamsters and
Chauffeurs' Union had five wagons on
the street, last Tuesday, competing with
tlie Cincinnati Railroad Omnibus Com
pany, where the members of this union
arc on a strike.
Gambrinus Stock Company
Placed On the 'We Don't Patronize List' at the Request
of the Sheet Metal Workers. Joint Arbitration Board
Reports Against Sam'l. L. Gazaway. Building Trades
Council Hold Regular Meeting, Where a Great Deal
of Routine Business Was Transacted.
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order last Thurs
day night with Vice-President Phil
Fischer in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Communication from the Cement Fin
ishers' Union No. 524 announced that
Ben Suchcr had been appointed dele
gate to the Building Trades Council.
Brother Suchcr being present he was
duly obligated.
Business Agent Iloch read a lengthy
report which was ordered received and
filed.
Report from the Labor Day Commit
tee was read and approved.
The joint arbitration board reported
that they had appointed Mr. Walter M.
Squires to examine Mr. Samuel L. Gaz
away as to his ability as a hoisting en
gineer and Mr. Squires has reported
that he found Mr. Gazaway incompe
'Twas a Happy Day
for Eighth Ward Kids
Mike-Mullen' Gives" Hi's-Annual Outing-to-Poor Children.
The Affair Was a Great Success.
If all your dreams came true you
wouldn't be half as happy as the young
sters who attended the Mullen picnic
last Wednesday at Chester Park. The
genial Mike was on hand early to wel
come his guests, for they get up early
in the Eighth Ward especially on the
annual picnic day.
Attended by a large staff of assistants
and he needed all of them Mr. Mul
len endeavored to see that not a per
son who attended missed a minute of
joy. There were so many free things
to eat, drink and do that a body was
amazed, and you am safely bet that
most of that enormous crowd didn't
miss a thing, albeit they stood in lines
for hours to take turns doing the con
cessions. The following results were announced
following the athletic contests :
Race for Girls (under .1) Kathleen
Normile, first; Stella Carroll, second;
Catherine Collins, third.
Girls' Race (.1 to (!) Helen Carroll,
first ; Leonora Collins, second ; Julie
Conners, third.
Girls' Race (0 to S) Helen Campbell,
first; Helen Harlan, second; Anna Eng
lish, third.
Girls' Race (S to 10) Marie Brown,
first : Marcclla Druck, second ; Charlotte
MacKenna, third.
Girls' Race (10 to 12) Esther Kane,
first; Anna Harlan, second; Loretta
Brady, third.
Boys' Swimming Race (10 to 12)
Robb, first; Kerns, second; Frixarie,
third.
Bovs' Swimming Race (12 to 14)
Ray 'Edmonds, first; Weber, second;
Schmidt, third.
Boys' Swimming Race (14 to 10)
Altaian, first; Harris, second; Taynor,
third.
Boys' Swimming Race (over 10)
TO l'AV ItKXKPlT.
At a meeting of striking meat drivers
last Thursday night at Teamsters' Hall,
it was decided to pay a strike benefit
of $7 a week. The benefit would be in
creased in the near future, union offi
cials said.
COXFKItKXCN IS UKhU.
Cincinnati Railroad Omnibus Com
pany and Teamsters' Union officials held
a conference yesterday afternoon at the
llaviin Hotel on the strike of omnibus
drivers. It was reported after the meet
ing that no settlement was reached.
tent and so reported the matter to Roos
Brothers, who employed him, and or
dered them to put a union man on the
job.
Brother Hock reported that the Sheet
Metal Workers had placed the Gambri
nus Stock Company on the "We Don't
Patronize" list and further stated that
this brewery has been unfair to organ
ized labor in all sheet metal work that
has been done on their building lately.
It was moved and seconded that all
locals affiliated will be duly notified to
abstain from patronizing saloons who
handle Gambrinus Stock: Company beer.
All trades reported business fine.
At the request of the tar roofers, the
Cincinnati Roofing Company was or
dered placed upon the fair list of em
ployers, they having arrived at an agree
ment. There being no further business be
fore the meeting, the Council adjourned
until next Thursday night.
Arnold, first; Killinger, second; Mar
rino, third.
Boys' Boat Race (10 to IS) Clifford
Druck, first ; Harpt, second ; Demmitt,
third.
.Michael .Mullen,
Councilman Eighth Ward.
Tub Race Robb.
Long Distance Diving Contest. Robb.
Bicycle Race Murphy.
Mayor Puchta was presented with a
"Charlie Chaplin" doll, as an office good
luck "god," by Councilman Mullen and
his committee, when the Mayor, Safety
Director Friedlaudcr and Service Di
rector Hornberger attended the outing
at noon and had luncheon at the club
house. LABOR MEN TO MEET
The legislative committee of the Cen
tral Labor Council will meet Sunday at
11 a. in., in Rattcrman's hall, Twelfth
and Walnut streets. It is reported that
it is the purpose of organized labor to
scan closely the records and attitude
toward labor of candidates for the Gen
eral Assembly in particular.
MACHINISTS KAISK WAOKS.
Long Island City, N. Y. Shop ma
chinists employed by the Long Island
Railroad have raised wages 10 per cent
an reduced hours from ten to nine per
day.
Ll
Rl
