r BRITISH SUPER-DRIVE JEGINS!
Sixteen Miles of Trenches Captured In "Great Charge
A Very Good Thing-This Custom of a Patriotic, Sunday Evening, All-City Service I
"Let the |>eople prake Thee, O God; let all the people for all." We have had many exciting and perplexing ti.in ( - to think SINOW KVKMXti, All, OK IS TO(i Kill Kit—Oil, Ik nil ||j
praise Thee." Thus the flag ritual will roll out In solemn unison. a»>out lately—the call to arms anil the hurry of recruiting and WKATHKH KoItHIHS y« rir THIS DMRMC 0* I'XITV,
The mighty murmur will rise from thousands of throats It l» an impressive custom thin of the Tacoma churches. B ,, e ctacle of what is really a wartime camp at American THKN IN THK TWO Mfl AUHTOim MS—A\l) KINO THAT
MTStf^c^iSn": r^^^^&^^^xsst^JS&^'S: KSass Bituatlon> anu tlie SSn* strike-<°r »»■«■ ~»•■««« **™ ««* «S-
Igether instead of separately ferences are forgotten. "' "wanted.- THIX<JH. WK IAVI MOT Otrt HO VKHV KAR APART AKTKII
"1 pletlße allrKlunce to my flag and to the republic for Such a service is wholesome at any time, and will be 'T WILL UK A VKRY <J(KH» THING TO SIT IX THK Al , fii siX< KWK ALL HKI.IKX XIX <iOI> AMD I/OVK OK
which it stands, one nation, lndJ\i*ll>l<', nith liberty and justice esiiecially so just now. tiHKAT «Ti;\K OK THK STAIHIM KOK AX HOI X <H{ TWO COIXTHY.
. -=== '; " ** '
ft^a^^^^^i^^a^^^BllN It 1^ F 111 Ta^mu^m|A|/
CaiTlor hoT" will deliver The Times every )
. nit(ht at the bcuclien and summer ciunps ;
', around Tncoma. Order from iih before you •
\ leave town nnd the imi» i will tttart an sunn
' a* yon reach your glimmer home. .Main 12. '
tmii»fcliliHH»miitii>ianiiiiiiiHi'6»iH
TURN OFF
THE HOSE,
MR. COVER
'I'llis is a (rue story, M
don't laugh. It happened
today, no don't rondomn it to
the Whiskers club.
Weather Man Cover, frum hta
ipbaervatory on the fifth floor of
f**ie Chamber of Commeive build-
Ag, was casting his eye out over
.'lie country side looking foi ram
/drops, when the telep'iona bell
/ranp.
"Hello," said a feminine volflO.
"llcllo ——18S dUs de vaeder jf
ftce?"
"Y«s. ma'am," said Cover ap
peaslngly.
"Veil vy did you turn de
vaeder off den?"
"I beg your pardon, nvidam,
but 1 haven't turned th<? water
off. I wish to inform yoj that
the forecast Is 'unsettle I,' proba
bly showers tonight and Hunday."
"Yaas you deed, you turned de
vaeder off. 1 can't .'ash «iy
deeslies. 1'
The panning was getting more
severe with every word.
Then the weather 'nan tum
bled and ran to cover. He told
her he thought she oettnr call
up the city water department,
Main 2017.
His assistants gave him the
merry haw-haw, then got o.it from
under.
"nut for all that, tliey
can't keep me from pronosU
• Htliiii," "ui<l the iin<li.HiiiH}'<
eil Mr. Cover.
"I've got the Ih-i alibi that
•ver wan put down In black
and white, and the whole
rliy can come up here and
look at it If Hi" city doesn't
believe me."
• "Kain In Juno? Say, some
body li»* ben mlslentliiiK you.
\nil vin-ii Hlanderoim thingM
«n have been Raid abo>it me.
Why—"
Then he fumbled among li.h
records and liointed to the fig
ures for June.
"Here you have it. The rain
tall for the last month was be
low normal! It was only 1.(56
inches. The normal Is 2.13 in
ches. For 17 days in Juno there
was hardly a drop of ratu —only
.06 inches on the first of tho
month and .01 on the fifth. All
the raining happened 'tin Jims
18 on."
We looked askance at him, hut
he kept piling on the figures, so
what could we do?
Fie had figures to show, too,
that the temperature for each day
was only half a degree below the
normal! Average temperature
for the month, 08.8 degrees; nor
mal 59.4.
Nobody ever suggested a prani
Jury to Investigate the wealher
man.
Woman In
Fatal Auto
Accident!
By Mabel Abbott
lUihiihi- it rained yrster*
day. Mi- i huh i>;uis, ii
year* old, X lying dead at
• In- undcrtakcr'n; hoi- li un
build, W. O. Davis, a lnhor
ing num. In helplew with a
broken Jaw and oilier Injur-
Irs, ihrre (Million art, m<>th
rilesH, and h fourth who
Mould have com Into the
world in four or five months
Will never he burn.
THE STRIKE-AND TACOMA
fir A strike that is menacing Tacoma's future as a seaport, as
y\ well as depriving it of much present business, is under
way on the waterfront.
It already has led to one real riot and several near riots, to
bad feeling, to a demoralization of industry and to a general up
setting of civic peace and harmony.
The strikers are standing firm, and the employer! declare
that they never will give in. Each side ii conducting Ita Wattle
with determination and effectiveness.
In the meantime, the interests of the great third party —
much more important than those of the two parties directly
concerned —are trampled on. Tacoma's interest and well
being has, it would seem, been lost light of,
When the strikers trespassed on the premise! of the Sperry
mill and used force in an effort to prevent the loading of a ship,
they wronged, not only that employer, but Tacoma as a whole
and their own cause as well.
#TT When the employer! reply to this indignity witli a cam-
V!\ paign of misrepresentation, bluff, bluster and intimidation;
when they seek, instead of sei fling the strike, to force a so
called open shop program, and when they attempt to employ
the police force to gain that end, then they are doing just, as
much to injure Tacoma as are actual rioters.
Some of these employers have carried matters to a ridicul
ous extent. They have "grand-standed" like some Mexican
generalissimo. They have "martyred" themselves and an
ointed each other in tears of bathos until it is too bad we have
no Cervantes to write a new masterpiece about them.
The police department, be it remarked parenthetically here,
has maintained the proper viewpoint. It has been fair to strik
ers and fair to employers. No better proof of this statement
could be desired than the fact that those employers who are in
clined to be narrow and bull-headed and the few lawless ones
among the dock workers are together loudly condemning the
police. At the same time, fair-minded employers and the aver
age striker join in admitting that Commissioner Pettit's course
has been fair.
Uf But, as was suggested before, while all the frenzy of meet
*i\ ings, conferences, inspections, display of shotguns and
"scoring" of officials has been going on this week, NO GENU
INE EFFORT IS BEING MADE TO BRING ABOUT A SET
TLEMENT OF THE STRIKE!
dtt The Commercial club, In the opinion of The Times, ought
*\\ to be undertaking this Important work. It ought to stand
as a true representative of the whole city to insist that the two
sides come to terms and, in a kindly, diplomatic manner, help
them to Compromise their differences and adjust their disputes.
In a situation like this there always is merit on either side.
Bodies of men are so constituted that, no matter who they may
be, they cannot stick to a program that is altogether wrong and
unworthy.
Where one side is in the wrong it ought to be brought to a
realization of its error and be induced or forced to retreat from
that wrong position. Where one side or the other is indisput
ably right it deserves the community's backing in that conten
tion.
The reorganized Commercial club started off a few months
back with the avowed purpose of representing ALL of Tacoma
in every matter Tof public concern. It was on this flat-footed
promise that it received the enthusiastic support of The Tiroes
and of hundreds of business men who had abandoned the old
club in disgust.
Davis had taken his wife for
a ride to Puyallup to visit frleuda
among the berry-pickers.
As they returned, late in the
afternoon, the motorcycle skidded
on the wet road at the east ap
proach of the Puyalln;) river
bridge, and threw both directly
in front of the automobile of
Wilfred Bordeaux, of Seattle.
Davis struck on his feet, and
dragged the motorcycle, with the
woman clinging to it. a loot or
two forward, ha says, before he
fell, but not enough to clear the
wheels of the automobile, whl.?h
passed over her head. She was
instantly klled.
Kind Inaurntire Htyopt.
The automobile was driven by
James Brown, Bordeaux chauf
feur. Davis, who Is probably not
The Tacoma Times
}25c A MONTH. THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TACOMA. 25c A MONTH. |
VOL. XIII. NO. lb'7. TACOMA, WASH., SATURDAY, JULY 1, !!)!<>. lc A COPY
seriously hurt, gays Brown was
not to lilnme.
"He locked his brakes, and I
could nee afterwards whore his
wheels had burned the pavt
ment," he said this morning.
"It wouldn't have happened If
the street hadn't bf>en wet."
Dayls was taken home after the
accident, and this morning was
taken to the Tacoma General
hospital to have Ills Jaw set.
The family lives In a small
tenement in the rear of 215 East
27 th street.
The oldest boy. Wilford, 8
years old, Is not the son of Mrs.
Davis.
Th« two younger children,
Reba Micy lienson, 5, and Irene
Grace Benson, 3, are hers by a
former mRt-rlnvo
"He locked his brakes, and I
could nee afterwards whore ills
wheels had burned the pavt
ment," he said this morning.
"It wouldn't have happened If
the street hadn't boen wet."
Davis was taken home after the
accident, and this morning was
taken to the Tacoma General
hospital to have Ills Jaw set.
The family lives In a small
tenement in the rear of 215 East
27 th street.
The oldest boy. Wilford, 8
years old, Is not the son of Mra.
Davis.
Th« two younger children,
Ki'tia Mat Benson, 5, and Irene
Grace Benson, 3, are hers by a
former marriage.
Now it is made to appear thai the club has taken up the Kin
plovers' association battle. Its rooms are made a secondaiy
cenUr for the association's activities. Its meeting! resolve
themselves into hip-hooray affairs for the employers. It hoots
down a member, who suggests in one of those sessions—called
a public mass meeting—that the union men ought to lie 1 ('pre
sented on the program and invited to attend.
When we say thai the club has done this, we mean to say
that small circle of perhaps 100 which at this time has official
and actual direction of the dub's affairs, has done it. We do not
mean the 3000 Tacoma men who make up the membership.
That is the sad part of it, for if the 3000 had an adequate means
of making their voices heard, they would not tolerate making
their organization partisan.
/IT It is because The Times from the first has loyally sup-
ported the Reorganized club and has advised its readers lo
support it, that \ve are particularly disappointed to observe its
present course.
One thing is certain: Unless a drastic change is made from
the policy that has been in evidence this week, the club is going
to duplicate the failure of the old club and forfeit public good
will and support The Times is going to do everything in its
power to prevent such a catastrophe to Tacoma.
/IT IT IS NOW IP TO Til 10 WHOLE TOWN TO TURN TO
Nl AND BRDJG ABOUT AN END OF THE TROUBLK—
THE RIGHT B&RT OF AN KM).
The strikers umst eliminate all brute-force methods. They
ought to make a conscientious effort to meet the employers ball
way.
The employers should descend from the immensely long-leg
ged steed whicuthey have been riding and try walking on the
ground with thefVest of the human family.
Hotheads both in the union and in the employers' ranks
should be squelched.
The (Vnnmernal club, if it cherishes the ambition of remain
ing a force in the community —and it sincerely does —must learn
to act for the community, not for a small special interest in the
community. It is not too late for it to put forth some leaders, if
judiciously selected, who might do much toward bringing tli3
opposing forces together.
The city officials and the county officials, if they only will
forget politics aaid work earnestly, could assist greatly toward
that end.
ftt The thing we all want to keep uppermost is the welfare of
y\ Tacoma. That is the only reason The Times is speaking so
bluntly. If we criticise in part the conduct of a strike, the aims
of which in general we approve of, it is for that reason. If we
criticise the employers, when we ourselves are an employer, it is
for that reason. If we express our disappointment over the
Commercial club's course, when as a corporation and as newspa
per men we are members of the Commercial club, it is for that
reason.
This much must ho remembered: The strike is not a local af
fair; it is <'<>ast\vide. It cannot bt settled locally, but good work
can be done here toward bringingabout a general settlement.
|TT It is to Tacoma's interest to see an early settlement — if a
V\ right settlement—and Tacoma will prosper all the more if
it is Tacomans who lead in the negotiations. If, on the other
hand, it is Tacoma who holds back and hinders when the other
cities are smoothing out their wrinkles, Tacoma will then suffer
out of proportion.
WILL TACOMA ARISE TO THE EMERGENCY?
Mr. and Mm. Davis have been
married about 18 months.
Davis has been working at the
smelter and for the county.
Mrs. E. J. Foley, 69th and
East L street, Blsmark, slater of
Da via, is taking care of the chil
dren.
In Mr". Par*! 1 purne wan
found a receipt for an insur.
hiu-«- premium paid the ivu
• IrnilHl Mf> Innurance Co.
June 9.
Her family did not know
■he wm Insured, hihl are
making inqnlrtai.
TODAY'S CLEARINGS
Clearing* $ |45,225.«1
Balances 15,4 ST.frl
Transactions 1,Q64,167.5»
#6775
Mayor Agin'
Play Acting
Mayor Fawcett an-.l members of
the city council today entered
strenuous objection to the idea of
their appearing as colonial actor*
In the industrial pag«ant lo I*
given at the Stadium July 4.
Mrs. Bob worth and Mrv Her
bert of the D. A. R. aski-rt Mayor
Ftwcett to have the cottitall on
hand Tuesday In colonial outfits,
each tiding a white horse.
"Nothing dolag," exclaimed the
council, in on* voice, when Faw
cett broached the subject.
Well, I wasn't vwy blrong for
4
the suggestion myaelf," replied
Kawcett with a grin.
PLAN OOLF LINKS
IN SALOONS' PLACE
CALGARY, Alia., July 1. —
Government golf links to absorb
the time that was expended in sa
loons, was the proposition the
dr.vg made today following the
total abolition of the sale of booze
In the province last midnight.
STATE REGIMENTS
REACH THE BORDER
BAN ANTONIO, July 1. — The
Ist Illinois Infantry and the 7th
New York regiment have reached
the border and are being station
ed in commanding positions.
mm^NIGHT EDITIONhhhwj
WEATHER j
Tacoma: Unsettled, probably ;
; showers tonight and Sunday. ;
Washington: Same west, partly i
' cloudy east portion. ]
C IN BEHIND ROWS
OF GERMAN DUD
MHOOM, July I.—The al
lies' -hih .mi- offensive in-.-iin
•t 7:80 this nun Hi hi; with
siiiiiiiiiiiMMinv attarks b,v (he
llrllish and I renrli.
Two hours after I lie as
saults h«Kan the Itriltsli had
raptured Hi miles of 'JMHI
forward trenches- norlh of
Nomine.
llrilisli Klu<eineii<s Oeclar
eil Hie French gains INN
•<M|ii;ill\ satisfactory." Paris
has mil miiiikii ii'ill I lie re-
MlltN.
The i.mi- h nil.H |. along a 20
--nille front followed the most l»r*
rifio four-day bombardment !n
the history of the world.
Firmly holding Hie ivu'tured
treiithes the British are m.hik
forward farther.
The official slalenirnt Mild:
"AT 9:10 WK MAI) OCCUPIBO
TIIK OKRMAN FHONT LINK,
DIHGING IN BEHIND HOWS OF
GERMAN DI0A1). THE nUITISM
CASI'AhTIHS THIS FAR AUK
NOT HEAVY."
Many prisoners wore takon, but
it is impossible to obtain esti
mates of the number of the
losses.
On the remainder of <lie front.
lirßlsli raiding parties MBttatMd
to harrasß the Germans, penetrat
ing tlie defenses at several points.
This afternoon the w.tr office
issued a warning that people
should not travel to the contin
ent unless they had buIMH of
the most serious sort
All persons going to the con
tinent were warned that they must
undergo the strictest ki:il of ex
amination, with a close search of
their persons and baggage.
Describing this mornlnn's at
tack, the Chronicle correspondent
wired:
"All the horizon !■«•,.mil
where I stood was darkened
by the fumes from shell*.
Not a minute pasted without
the crash of high explosives.
I Talk o' the Times |
Ci'i-i'iincs. did you notice
Unit they are di-UlinK at
Tfnino? No, not Trescent,
h new V, G. W. company.
Page Mr. Noah!
It must be humiliating to
be a IMlliii of th« ( turn.mn
ii.v, and to he Hrnied to the
teeth, and, thus aceou.red,
tit present yourself at the po
lice station, volunteering as
an Officer of the Law, und to
l>e HWKi I ll> like any low
in-n*oii who can't pats the
civil service exams, huh?
We'll bet the rerruittaK office
wouldn't have miubhed 'en that
way.
And we ««nnnl In vain
tli«' lint Of tllflt \i iiMKstriloii
inii tlmmg for (he wwll-uigh
forgotten name of Joml>, but
'(nunMi'i there.
Are we soon to have »notln r
session with Prsemyxl?
What lihs become of the
■ >l<l-raslii<>iH-4 Buttle of Ver
dun?
And still the trage ly queens
move from scream to ncre«n.
SIGX ON IMVALIXr AY.
HOUSE PAIXTINO
DONE
HERE.
So, if you have a housfl, just
take It down and get It iwtntoi.
John T. Bixley of near Sunnier
■pent a most enjoyable naif hour
up a ch*<"ry tree eating cberrUw
"Uiiids followed the Nhell
fire at many |H>intN antl
hroiiKlit forth enough |'ii-hm
• ■i-s for the idenlifiraiinn of
K'Klmk-iils and diviKloim < ou
irontlnK the I'.iliish.
"The effort «>f the llntish
artillery on the German
troops was deadly. Sum of
the prisoners say they ha.v«
not out en for t dayn ouinK
to the heavy fire which pre
vrnflMl snpjillOH from !<■•<■ li
i»K Iheni."
i',iris itunoiinced the Corniu'is
were repiiliteU with heavy losstn
Wtctpt where they recaptured
Tliiauiuoiit. (icrnnin lime i.n >■>
Kirns shelled StßCjr last ni«ht, It
VM officially announced.
dipt Hie Two I'nnn .
The British captuted ItfN .'md
Montauhan, it was semi-official)y
announced. The French oapt'ir
ed Ciirlu and the Savier woods,
advaiiciiiK lwo kilometers.
Further statement .iniumiued
the capture of I,ul>oißelle and <ir
clnrod the liritish held the
ground north of Fricourt and
were attarkiiiK Hoiiumnii'iiuiur'l.
London MWtpftPWi in the larK
est, ill.Hi.i' i type announced i.o
groat allied offpnHive nod lienun.
The French hold the ea*t put
of Contalmaison, fojr miles
northwest of Albert and nro fight
ing around Mametz, six n)ilos tmt
of Albert.
ItOMIUItl) IIDINK
ROMK, .luly 1. —Austrian aero
planes bombarded Udine, it was
reported today. There »ere sev
eral casualties.
CAPTIRR MNEB
COPENHAGEN, July I—Ron
sian torpedo boats captured the
Hamburg - American steamer
Hermontdls, it was reported to-
day.
The vessel was on its vay to
Stettin with a cargo worth $100,
--000.
Thursday.
Suddenly he stopped an I came
down in great haste for a drink
of water.
Before he climbed back to ih«
tree-top he paused to remark he
wished he were a bird.
This wish was not based on the
fact that robins can get at cher
ries out of Ills own reach.
"It's because I notice that a
cherry with a worm In ti," said
cherry with aworm in It," -*ali
the observant Mr. BUley.
Success
The prosperity of the
bank indicates itself
in a substantial way
with the affairs that
concern the commun
ity.
The Putfet Sound
Bank has learned that
the greatest success
is attained only
through concentra
tion of effort.
H. N. Tinker,
Prea,
