1he True Democrat.
VOLUME xxv ST. PRANCIVILLL WEST PELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA. SATURDAY, JULY 1. 1ti NO. 22
HONORED WCDEN
PASSES AWAY,
fir. John Welsh Jonest, died at his
home at Jackson. Ia., Hiaturday after- fe
neon, June St. aned 8 )rears Ilurial
took pisce in the frranily Ilot in the
remrntery at Janrken. Huniay mortillg.
The' burial aervc(,ea were conduc('ted by
the, Mason, anrd thll the' solemnn inor
c-irc, of the Iltapltit t'hrrc'h, Rev. K. L. cc
Hte'iall of(lilating as chaplain and Ir. )r
A. I. IHarrow of liayou ic4ara Idge I
No :1 as marnshal, Mr. t;u 'Tornc tl
acted as W M . aeisted lby ir. T. I..
Mills of P'alin I.dige' No. 1·. who led tl
in the, r'erenson)ll at tlhe grasae. Thie"
kimess rprreareteld et ere Kclle'rtow n h
lIange Neo. 124 of Wihses,. I'lainsc IlwetX 'a
No , ,I ('f lintoni, St Jamces,. I,edi. l~E
No 47 sIf Ithltonfi Ie,/'g', ndlle ei i''liei Lna "
lA.eil' No. :1 or ItC) ou Flares.
IDr Jces,' iN. lor enIS th ('arolina ti
in 112t61 liet a elt#isendlant of re,'cl '
tiollar ancerstlors. Ilthi of his grilnl l
fathere ha ling fought linder ie-ne'rJill
i''raell'i; Marion. lie, came, to i.AoiLtnIai rei
in J141 and graduatedl in mediciine from
the, M'ediical Ik. pertlcl'iint of thet I'niver
sity of leiiterlaIi. New Orlean, In
1852 *lie quiclily stablisheed a large'
and lue'ratie' practice, ill tihe parishes a
of laplt li'elleiilta and aslt Baton
IHolige. and engaged actively in thei he
yellow f ,ver ep'Lidenic of 1,51 , Ih5i
and 1857. At the be*ingning of the
C('l War ihe raiiled a company (The
Plains ('Cavalry) of onell hundred and
tlftle'enl intla w he ,o'lrect'd him captain.
Ile was In active' service aw such until
after the' battle of hiaton Rouge. In
kli
It65 he was one, of the victitna of a
steamhnattlller explio(en onil the Tom.
blghl',' river, and of 31 men he' alone
a'lyape'd instant death. bilt receive'd In.
Juries from which het did not retwrver l
for more than two yours.
The clnse of the war found himnt re
duce'd in fortune and broken in health;
a failure In eyeslght caused by the
holler urph'k.on barred him from the
active practice of medilcne, but with
unshaken fortitude he' embarked In the
drug business. In 1069 he' resumed the
practnict of his profession and was con.
tinually engage'd therein until 15874,
when he was elcted Sulperintendent
of the Insane Asylum of Louisiana.
When he took charge of the asylum.
Dr. Jones found the place in a demoral
leed condition. The institution was In
debt, It could get no credlt, and the
lanmates were In pittable circumstances.
Dr. Jones set to work to Improve the
place. lie took all the ahleº-bodled
patients and organited a farm and
garden squad wfhlch helped to make
the expenise of the' tinstittlion less and
assured a full supply of wholesome
feted. The money to aet things into,
shapel was furnihedl by D)r. Jones out
of hl own pocket.
At that time the syinuim wias "ry
small, havlnl reoon for only 166 pa
Ilenlts. The jlls throughout the state
weoe erowded with insane' pertns.
Dr. Jone conce'lIved a planl to get ew
bhlildings for the instituttlnon so as to
get all of the state's Insane into proner
etuarters. lie establhiised a brick yard
on the asylulm around and madeto three
million lrlicks. Then hee applled to the
rcnet'ral assembly for funds to pitt up
aeidltlonal buildings. The assmbhly
authoritred ons, btlldinlg, and later on
durlnl his idmtnlistratlon four others
j're` added ThIs increlase!d the ea
parity of the Instltutlto to 600. The
insane' psr.oois we're sent in fromnl all
over the state' It Is eaid that 130 were
sent iI from Ne'w )ricans in Ione day.
D)r. Joees re'niunlld at the asyluim for
14 years and theln retired, le'ling the
institltiotln In a flourichiun condition.
Afte'r ilavingl the saylum hlee ananted
hi; estatel teatir Jackson.
In the deeath of Dr. Jones' the town
cf Jalc'kewi has lost one ecf its olde'st
and maotl Ihoclcreed citlseni a man who
has wIen'tl (ioree'lv idel'ntifedl with the
hIet Intere'ts of ihIi' tow I, lind whe, has
lteen a leadting ine'mtee.r ocf the howal
Itaptlit ('hurch chrieg bl long and
ss'fulnl life He had nlmost reache'd
the nine'tleth milestone, elnj,)eeing until
rece'ent"ly e y glood health., leut for
se eral months his health ,te'adily d.
c'line'd, untll he Ipeacfflly Iasiw'Id aw ay
Ikvote'd etehllitiens of ctildren. grandl
chlldren tnd frle'llds atltenlded hil last
days, aed his fluncIral was one of tich'
lIarget in thlie history of the tow n.
f)r. Joi`ne wtas lurrled to Amaryntha
!luff of MisslnllPlt. who died in 1l38
The're we're' tln c'hildreln. Those stir
vIst bg are.: I)r. l'ihillip . Jalones of
Itaton JRouge. lr. (.:trge ilton Jones
ef lultcher. Mrs. (ie'erce Keller and
MIss Lily Jones of Jacksoan.
A KING.
Sboutbern Wotan's Magaslne.)
lie rode on the observation platform
of a cotton wagon,
His fleey staple had just brought
twelve cents a pound.
The money was down in his pocket.
No man, had an account agalnst hib
for a dime.
The mules trotted along over the
smooth pavement and now and then a
hig red apple jolted out of a heaplng
bucket and rolled back and forth
arrres the wagon bed.
A neat bundle over In the corner
contained a dress pattern--ten yards
of blue checked gingham for the faith
ful wife.
The little bag was full of candy for
the baby.
I1. a histled as Pete and Reck turned
their heads homeward.
It was near eventide. A few clouds
hadl gathered over In the west and the
sun was cutting strange capers with
th~se billows of the sky. There were
islands of gold floatina in a deep blue
sea, there were ,mountals kissed with
the colors of the rainbow. No painter
could have made a prettier picture; an
dlreame. r could have visited a seee
nmure splendid in all the mysterious
realtn of sluInberhood.
The occupant of the wagon enjoyed it.
The fresh evening breses were as
balmn to his brow.
There was no eanmalty in his heart
asainat any one.
There was no political ambition that
had gone unsatisied.
There was no sorrow or ingratitude
to stick and sting and polpl.
lie was a plailn contry Ilsa.
lie loved his wifte.
He loved his baby.
lHe was going bome to them--a king
wearing a royal crown of kindnese-
king, tender, thoughtful, arectionate.
hearing simple gifts to his erbjeets.
A Chicago man gave a dollar for a
fiftyceint piece that had just bese
spent by W. J. Bryan. This is letr
worship grown silly.
- -- -- --- -- - ~- t- - -- - -- - -- - - - - - Y . - - - - - -- - - -. - ~- - -CJ - - · - L - - - - - - - - - - - -
They Are Coming!
Spread The News!
Reymond's Big Clearance Sale Opens
Friday Morning, June 30.
Lasts 16 Days.
Everybody will be there. Join the crowd.
They are coming from every section of
this country. We will have every item
in every section of our store on sale at cut
prices. We don't want to carry any goods
from one season to the next. Must un
load all summer merchandise. Come help
us and we will save you money.............
Reymond's
BATON ROUGE, LA.
BEAUTIFY HOMES AND FARMS
(C. 8. Barret In Progressive Farmer.)
Wherever I have been able to acquire
. a little piece of ground, my first
a thought has been to decorate It with
beautiful and useful trees, with attrac
* tive shrubs and flowers. My own ex,
a perleunee has been that it has not o.nly
R made It more pleasant to look at, but
b has added value to it far in excess of
the comparatively small expenditures
r inclbved.
Our Southern farmers need to piursue
this policy more than any I know of.
(Oet something somebrhly ele, wants.
r and It's not only worth more to yoU.
but the' other fellow I. willling to pay
more for It. The man who is bahking
for a caunntry plae, and is. able to pay
for it will drive by the thousands of
characterslttic farm houses, regardless
of slio fertility perhaps, and will stop
at the w',llt.kpt country home, emnhiun
® rerd in itltiullli trees and flowers alnt
der-rvi-e, "This is the place' for nm,."
A short time ago I had the pleasure
of driving through ('ailfornia's berauti
ful Paradise Valle.y. I Ilnuired if the're'
were any of thIse attractive farms for
sale. I was told that there was one. on
the market to be sold for the' lt iun
of an estate. "The price?" I u~ked
"I think you can buy it for $1,94o) an
acre," my informant replied, 'but hard
ly any less."
It was largely beauty that gave that
and neighboring farms there such rem
markable value. We not only have
Just as good and often, better land right
here in the otuth, and lots of it at that.
but nature favors us with abundant
rainfall, whereas our ('alifornia broth
ers are compelled to resort to et'peni
slve Irrigation.
We have every opportunity right
here In the slouth for doinS just what
they have done in ('alifornia, and I be
lieve we can beat them at the lame.
Let's keep up the good work until
the farmers of the South are imra
witamed with the' Id ortancet of doing
Just a IittI.' bit tour'' (or I lees'gIeve'a
and their faminlles than covering their
bodie', and Ik api4K food In theIr
h'tonia.ehH
PTOMAINE POISONING.
One thing is surf' pitunialn.' polson
In$ is causu'd elithe'r by Ignecrance or by
('sr4eloa.41e1. It It always one or the;
other that brings It about, you do not
"('itch it." When this Is well tgnder.
s4411J e'ea or pe'rIsots % ill 114'('lare' pr''ud.
ly thatI l') antd I ht~r ftnaiil his ha it'
airltere'eJ froii it l'l' lgnorfliia 14 Ithat
~atust's it Is iriilog i'ewtrh 4'4011 biuut 141145
as pi'kli'e'e a d itci crruatn I t neel fish
andl sIdatI i :41er, avlid frut! stt r-reaqtj
Iietiab.iuip. ovlsitrie a %tI) c(1111 *sail1% Wchicel
etnd sn'.rll glasos' (f hut ber, or a os' l din
Sucth f4M)nd' art' eatunlt, t: IIy aoil the
rroe'tse'iti:..a is aliewhug , fta~t 1, not
t'141 iI 'd (914n opt-n4(etl ca 1414. antI Iiv lig
tergan i41, 4 1 r 414all 1 yo ltI eeen t sea
4410, eiita'r and poison it. tOr food lis
tire iiiee, reel. aenid ii uuit les re'ach It.
I"'ri.'ntii lta eon. molds. antllI 144s1h fameil hr
actiucts art' be'Iter kneewin, for f41ods4
4 hus 'Mpoi~l4ed ' are' t'aeil neote'd b thIIle'
,iske'd "ye' andel rejctiled
Ihttni' ('00ks sho4uld use Ilinlty of I
icet'. (is k foids long aicel carefully ande
put themi a a a in 1'rulelieeel14l t'ilean
v"e11111 and not run' a silngle risk. F oods
sonetlmnes bewcome' daiegeroIi tiefeorere
they show a iciigle sig51n eof et'c4a. aund
the calmas' Cannot be' delete'ramline' s'e' n
with a i labratory apjearatusI. '44411 may5
ne'aer Itirt the' ca use' cr clrt' of p10.
reaalne' peoisol ltu, bGti yo4u c4n4 ehloceise'
fcacl Caert ullyi and keep it proiperly
14anlta ry reule'ie acid hate' ~c'ew, ctlcal c~lt'nn
lneas obletain in pantry. refrigerator,
and bas c' lit. anid aso feel safe "Siafely
first" is most c'omferting. though not
now. =
NEWSPAPER CHARACTER.
S(Hlaton Routg.e tate-TLmes. )
"There are a great many foolish
folks." says an old newspaper rtan..
" ho III tell you that money Is all
that Is nlecessary to make a Fuctessful
newspaper They hold that money may
otnmmrand brains, as it will; and that
the two, working together, smake the
grrat and powerful journal. But there
Is another quality, the lack of which
imakes your newspaper as Impltent as
a tool without a handle, and that
Iquality Il character, and without char
a'te'r ion newspaper can be' Influential "
Newspalp r "character" lan't the
t laracltr of the edItor nor of the
owner nor yet of the business office.
The makern of ia newspaper must have
character, of enure, or they will fail
miserablly Itilt the character of the
palper itself is a thing that is built Iup
slowly, a littli' at a time. Jay after
dny the tendency of the paper to tell
the Iruth,. to protect no one. to op(pos
that which Is had and to chanmpilon
that which is gtood
News'papers. even as human eIllngs.
err They tmaty. through faulty jtudii
imett. at times espousfe causes that are.
not the cauMse wlhich should have been
iespoused. Hut. month after month.
Iyar after year. taking the right side
,f qullePtions and displaylng unselfish
feaarlessntess. gives the newspaper its
character and its standing in the cont
mnlity It Is not a thing that canrl I
purchased. It is not a thing which any
onle man controls, or has a copyright.
upon It i the spirit of the thing, this
newspapter ('haracter, and It prevails
as certainty with the newspaper as
with the Indlividual
- 4--,
Why is it than when a discreditable
or untlawful act is performed In a com
mlcunit.v it Is always reported as the
deed of a mob composed mainly of
'promlinernt itllzens' or 'business ne '
lake ('harles Am rlctan-dPress
recatuse even among "prominent city I
rens and business men" thetre are those
of donkey- or tiger-mtnds.
DR DOW1JNG A
VLUABLf ASE
in a half olulr mn editorial in the
Chi(enao Tribune extended reference to
l)r Ikowllng is made apropos of the
0ilt-'1lll l madeds of him in a report on
statf' ihealth work male by I)r. ('hai.
V ('haplin. health conmmlssioner of
'Pro. idtnee. Itat.e, Island, and a aanli
ttritln of r'coglnizet r ability and long
expe'rience lIr C'hnpin in sppeking of
;ITffirs in I.ollistaia says
"P'oltlk' are said to dictate appoint
Itents t Ii the state board of health. If
this hl so Ii-rnniwnenry of tenure for the
.'!st'tsi'.e', ande pierhap his subordi
ltaslit's. c;rll I'er be' secure, and no
ilatt1r l 'ho fl i 'mlenlt ai omfrlal may be,
ij the hitlitli l of polities may displace
iJhim in a imomnte and reverse the
Stllihi o e the diepartment and destroy
its infthiuenv'e The incubus of easilly
tpr".enltathle ditwasle liias po heavy on
Itlhe slit|ih that no southern state can
afford to tiltow party or personal poll.
tics to texist In the department of
ht'althº Th'e people should demand
that itno gov.ernor appoint to member.
whip In the board of health any man
who itoes rnot hold himself above all
setty politics"
lir (,'hapin has none but a general
interest in l)r. DIowling or his achieve
ii'intls, hut having the outsider's wider
Sth'l points he iee wherein change
iwotlil lI harmfnul to the ampanlll
wagedin against lAitullana's dlsease.
o-,r haM The Tribune any personal
aInttr'elt in the matter, yet Its comment
Is
"The, reputation of Louisiana as a
state where proper health work Is be
ina dlone has greatly enhanced inele
ilr ts«ar flowling became the state
health offler A.s such he hak a na
timonal repuitatton. and the state has
capitalited and is capitallilnl on that
reputlation.
"People fromn other sectlons of the
country feel a little more tempted to
move to Loulisiana when they know of
the good reputation borne by Dr. Dowl
Ing and the other members of the
state hord. Naturally the people of
the state would be expected to visit
their vengeance on any olleer who
would turn the state board of health
over to untrained and untried mes."
The vengeance Is not so sure as It
shouldl b in a lltate notably long.
sufferina and forbearing with its eecru.
ti.. . but we trust that no hindrance
will be directed against the warfare
ulpon unsanitary condtlions and their
cittlselluent disease as is being carried
on by l)r hins hug.
It s indeed trite as The Tribune says
that lanliniana has capitallied already
upnm Ir. Ikwllng'n work. People
thmusllhott the lnllted Ntates, who be
IevriI that 1lulllntala wlas a vast mis
nmale cswamp. Infested with tropicall
disease's of every descrlption.have been
more nearly ed(lncated as to the truth
by I)r. f)owling's publilcityl methbods
than ever ewfore; while the succenssful
combat waged against acttual disase
has rnlendered cnnalfdenre that the
old policy of cotcealment and mi
r,,prirsientatIon hba been definitely
alindoned. anid that opeinnes. faIrness
nld Ittelligent service characterile the
health servIce of Iolslniana today.
DIr flow lng has achlevd thin. Ile
shoullld Ihave his rewalrd by hill contin
IIanci' inl Ihe work.
All Isrnotl wh·o holds anlly land pur
haulId I Itlh MeEniry srlIp. should
take Ititce of the fIct that the tlime
linit for validatnllg the same exlpires
.hll' I After that date the attorney
-ewt-rlI w ill take action to invalidate
the- title,
MAIL OnR THE OLODtIR SOYS.
Ml;il fror th, soldiler b.,se who have
.,.is to I hi front shoid ti plainLly
alidrile',i II rerd'r to Intlsure its prompt
T'l. non*iil, of lh. aiddresunie shotuld be
fulo ll .d i hle' t rait wrte ith pen and
IIck giV' hliaa rat companyl . regiment
or otll, r oiTraiiatllloll to twhlch attach.
ed TIh. lpoting.' shoulld hie fully pre.
ie:hl, lldl amine l Anuddr'.s, of sender
wriltt.'n itn IulpN'r left-hand corlner on
;olctrece' wtile'
l'ar,.el Ipost tiuatter it.l shotalld be
aetwts.,o t eail'l. and ltihtly wrapped in
Seithe.r r."r strongl Ipaper or rloth, and
ih t it tr,,ng Iwt nhe litlly and as'curely
I'rn.n.til aduldre'n of the lllautlasa
trop is I "'amp 4tafford. Alexandria.
I,,onllaunar " The' Misalsaippi troops are
al "('amp Kwep Taylor, JacLkson. Misa."
