-E- A TN
kces
birn lie
M.EM
lextcan cold
Cjtnna er.
b 'Handy &
U PMr SJS
f steady Stocks
IES. FOUi
LVENING. JULY 1. 1916. delivered ax
EL PASO. TEX
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SCiGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
r,rwl
rAViE
JED rSF Lm AKfek '
aC0 GIVES W SEIZED
Towns
&
i-
fj
MEXICANS SEIZEIAMERIC AN WOMAN
TAKE HEB FRDMJDWSRWITHttXICO,SflYSWiLSDK
TILLALLAULHNAilVLbAHL IKlhU
iFive Miles Through
u, Capturing Towns
1 aiding Prisoners.
ICH DRIVE
7ORW4RDALSO
l idous Offensive Along
file Front Follows
jce Borhhardment.
"JH headquarters In France.
IL This aftirnoon tbe Brit
vere makixg good progress
! front lines ri German held
as a result oi the great of
arted this Burning. Serre
uban, which Ue British cap-
Important t&ctieal points.
southeast of Eebuterne. and
p Is northeast of Bray. The
fre fighting fe the Tillages
f and Contalmison, portions
hey hold.
fish fought galhntly and had
tay prisoners tbe -root
in the affernein.
Inch, advancing on the Brit
were moving with great
j After the assault they very
vSnV'tiei&gfSnt' front line,
the daV 'Jiajl .gone well for
d Hnglaxtd.
Jowns Are Stormed.
received from the front
)6 ecloek. five hours after
)lned French and British
was launched, ehowed
illes had capture, "the towns ,
selle. Serre, and 1 ontauban i
and Favlere woods. The main ;
xenches over the entire front
k are reported to have seen
and at virions points the
d reached the main second
sports show that the French
h at the points of their fur
ances have broken through a
f more than five miles be
Irst German trenches. Mon
five and a half miles east of
HtlBh frost, and Corlu woo
es east-soetheast of Albert,
tish are endeavoring to sur--pval.
and at other points an
-ugle Is under way for towns
es. Reports from tbe front
at the important German po
"ricourt may be cut off.
-i-te- Bombardment.
bar-meat which preceded the
ted about an hour and a
is too early as yet to give
ae barest particulars of the
traich Is developing in ln
Che British casualties have
n comparatively light, ao
i the official report,
inch Join In ttack.
leously wliirbe launching
tish off-srye?French Infan
jced to- tb attack. This
of Freaoh troops was in
over a section the French,
ilnjr the Junction point with
a front
tilery bombardment of the
days was concentrated this
ith a degree of fury and a.
f guns which were unpre
ji the region of Albert and
e, with the French cooperat
4 south,
ry Leap From Trenches.
oclock through clouds of
1 dust which bang over the
d as far as the eye could see,
xy sprang from the trenches
anlt over a front of 26 miles.
British trench mortors
e 35 shots a minute, played
tart, cutting wire entangle
l destroying trenches.
Food for Five Days.
the prisoners say the Brlt
ne of fire prevented them
Jng food for the last five
Ji staff oficer who witnessed
ice at the Junction of the
id British lines said the at-la-neeed
as though the men
sarade.
X. BHG-, Julyl. Af tor weeks
ntense bombardment with
ef every caliber, firing
.hells dally, the BrlUsh early
-nched a general offensive
le German line along a front
ts noth of the river Somme.
teeded In taking the German
'trend and capturing many
t
rencb 01 tbe British right co-
d m the Attack. When the last
hes thu far received left
j headq-aycs, the fighting was
tatuuca oxtu'-tge v, wma- -.j
DEADLOCK IN STRIKE 511111
MEH SflY ARBITRATION IS REFUSED
Conference With Stone & "Webster District Manager and
Strike Committee; Fail to Eeach Any Agreement;
Strike Spokesman Says Company Refused All
Demands Made By Strikers.
1
m iH-irtrJ IS no material coigc iu
the situation in ue circei w
strike as a result of a conference
which was held at 10 oclock Satur
day morning between 1- C. Bradley,
of Houston, district manager for the
Stone "Webster company and the com
mittee representing the organization
of street railway trainmen. The
etriir.r. and pnmTuinT are considered
deadlocked. The conference was to morning with Bradley district
have been held in the council chamber
of the city hall, with mayor Tom Lea
In attendance, but the mayor was ill
G. Moseley. T. G. Douglas, W. E. Long
ford and J. H. McKlnney.
The committee, with Walker and
McHold. made this stateemnt to The
Herald at 9 oclock Saturday morning:
This union was peacefully organized.
It represents the unanimous sentiment
of the men. This Is proved by the
fact that every conductor and motor
man is now on strike, with the excep
tion of one man.
Wish to Arbitrate.
-W will meet at 10 ociock mis
manager for the Stone & Webster com
pany. We understand that he la em
powered to make an agreement with
us, and we will lay the whole situation
rail to re cu -
TIN H
IIS
American
lyDer
Mrl
onsut Immediate-
ids Release of
lamilton.
.w ..,-. . ---, T .
and confined to his bed. The meeting --, with him. then we are will
1 T . . -.. n nsKlrvatlnn
was held in the office of the company,
in the Electric building, with J. P.
O'Connor, city alderman. In attendance.
Bradley's Statements.
At noon I- C Bradley Issued the
following otatement: "A committee of
five men, representing, the striking
trainmen of the El Paso Electric Rail
way company, requested & conference
with Mr. Potter in reference to the
street car atrlke. The men were
-ranted a hearing by Mr. Potter and
WAS TRAVELING
ON A PASSPORT
Mexican Officer Responsible
is Under Indictment
in Arizona.
NOGALE3, Ari- 3ny -.Mrs. Wil
liam Hamilton, wife of an Amer
ican connected with the sugar
company at Los Mochls, Sinaloa. was
taken from a train Friday at Loaias.
n- ii- smith nf the border, by -laj.
gS. atd'alfforvertlme Pay'anTi " T rrTr'ull
r7.r,o nr tu.t The men are not Sonora. according to reports received
allowed to carry drinking water on uie here today.
ins' tn submit our case for aroitrauon.
our organization to select two men.
the company to slect two men, the
lifth to be selected by the four.
"There are many grievances that we
, tn mnv comDlalnt against, in
addition to our demand for recogni-
President Is Beady to Sacrifice His Own Political For
tunes for Peace Says He Is Servant of tne wnoie
American People, Not of Those Who Wish to
Enhance Mexican Investments.
". -- n ---a-a-a nrt thrA Is hnt one nhrase
SW iuba. -iy - x"- --".- ;---:.-, 7h. iVtT-ir -Mr. President.
do not allow anybody to persuade you
that the people of this ceuatrr want
war with anybody." "
Engineer SpeaJcs for Peace.
T got off a train yesterday and as I
was bidding goodbye to the engineer,
he said in an undertone. "Mr. President.
keep out of Mexico.' And if one man
has said that to me. a thousand have
said It to me as I have moved about
the country.
"It I have opportunity to engage
them further In conversation they say
'of course we know that you cannot
govern the circumstances of the case
altogether and it may be necessary,
but for God's sake do not do it until
it is necessary.'
Great Forces Axe Moral Ones.
"I am for tbe time being spokesman
of such people, gentlemen. I have not
read history without observing that the
greatest forces in the world and tbe
only permanent forces are the moral
forces. We have the evidence of a very
cars, nor to get a drink while on duty.
They are required to eat while tney
are on duty on the cars. They are
required to work very long hours, and
T. - -t .--. fAVifllF T-x
tbe majority oi oei i -.. --.
myself. A full, clear and final state- t 21 n honr The BCale of pay is
.. , mari tn ihK men outlining - . .- .- -e . .nta nn hftH?. but A3
the attitude or the company, and there me remam to the service long
ehould now be no misunderstanding I noasil to become entitled to the
on the part of the men a- -to- tfe po-- j higher rates of pay, a pretext is found
Hon of the company. J for di-cbarging them.
T?riflv. It Is Imnosslble for the com- - ., .
pany to undertake to operate Its prop- x onr- -
.r. i. nnrn-' with te vlKWS of I rKair, how -DC.tk JCett - rt
th man. ind lle tne -ttnpspcr nas
always been anxious to trS-r'alTof its
employes fairly it aso wa,- -
Public many obligations wwch must
oe luuiuea aaa wui i w. -. -
fulfilled under the conditions tbe men
are asking for.
Mexican Crisis.
Kote. how leas'. the .nt
quired to" 6 est -a-iy.-
aveta when- m
and repoxUng Xor a cjlifefeTST,
little money. Art extr'm3wtM-! to r
report at the barn at 4:55 a. in. If ne
is not assigned, he reports again at
in rr Rtfll not asslimed. be re-
! porta a third time at 2 p. m. If there
i Is nothing for him then, he is excused
United States cantol Staiplch. Imme- .
diateiy maae a. atjoaM of " o.
Jose Estrada, secretary to Ignacio Bo
nlllas, a Carransa. cabinet officer,
crossed the line to take thetmatter up
with Gen. Voragaray. mlUtaJT chief
In Nogales, Sonora, -f
Mrs. HamUtqn53? !BS?f
passport Issued bT-?E-trada'atHer-.n-itin
-vt! ilmf it nresent is c-
4W-...u. -..--.- . ---, -11-... I
dor iadlctB-i in 'bVcw.!" rT?a
horse sUeUBX
RF.YFs BArmrrssuiiRENbER
1 AT TOF&EON,. SAYS 'REPORT
Chihuahua City. ilex, rl GrotiPj
of the Canuto Reyes faction of bandits
continue to arrive inTorreon to offer
-Ai -- tn tii Atr facto crovern-
. ... t i i ...,
-In view ol the present international i 'foT tho ,fa,but be has not earned a , ment. eeordJr an "" "Th.
crisis, when tbe very safety of the ct Poss,ly he might at 2 p. m. 5Ivrh1e1'ft.slIgaeofK.hI
ciUzens and property of the company. ctth a smelter car for two tripe. , former Vllllsta m' . Jr T- AaaeS
as well as the property of the public is & WOuld mean two hours. Getting : as a supporter ' r"Aa-t
tavolvedflt i no. onl? unwise but un- i t 4 JO. he would have been in ser- Reyes to ef fn. has ben active In se-patriot,-
to precipitate unnecessary dis- ; Tlce, pracUcally. for 12 hours, and curing their u,.ss'?n-iara. i ,n
turbanee or controversaries. The com- would receive 44 cents in pay. ,1, 3rll fflnJ tSfSot 1 tin-
MnVtherefore will not be a party to -A man on one of the split runs formed Gen. Trevino Uiat not a. sm
Mh' controversy'" will o for- would come in on the Fort Bliss ear at; gle '"ttfflrtrar
wlrd aVrapidlyXs possible In restoring I midnight. He would b expected tb re- cojnw d-5fotte haV rlplaced Z
?t5. J!kbcAd-?th; . L5:!2tnifts!?..rnT?,stome-l,.! &r&T$&.
large body of the men are not in sym- sleeping In the barn ?r In one of the I
pahty with this controversy and are ! cars. He would be relieved from the i
.rf . . j i ... . i - . . n..C . anil tTIRin
patriotic men, DUt "were iurem am.- -o Mexico car at -. . -. .- -
strike against their better Judgment. Dtt duty until 3 -IS p. m when he would
To such men the company will give go jck on tbyFort Bliss car and stay
t wv ,ntrtf.niiinTi and snouiu uiuoo
who are not responsiDie ior m- -ww-desire
to return to work immediately
h i-lll h trusted with the same fair
ness and consideration as have been
accorded them In the past.
Strike IVItboot Xotlce.
n, .t-it-o -rna nreciDltated within a
few hours aoc was called between mid
night and 5 oclocK a. m ana me ic
ers and other trainmen who are re
sponsible for this unwarranted action
have theieby shown conclusively that
they have utter disregard for the In
terest of the company and the welfare
of the community and country, and the
company would be derelict In IU duty
to tbe public which it serves if it con
tinued such irresponsible men In its
service. We arc glad, however, that
this number of irresponsiDie men rep
resent but a very few of the trainmen
of the company.
Strikers' Statement.
C A. Phelps, a member of the strike
committee, made this statement shortly
after noon: . .
"We met Mr. Bradley, and he re
fused all our demands. He refused,
first, to recognize our organization as
a labor union. He refused, second, to
arbitrate the matter of our demands.
He refused to reinstate any of the men
discharged, and who are included in
this controversy. He refused to grant
any raise in pay for us. He declared
that he would succeed In reestablish
ing ear service, though he did not ex
pect to do it in the next day or so.
We could not get the least concession
from Mr. Bradley."
14 Cars Operatlnc
H. S- Potter, general manager of tbe
company, said Saturday morning that
14 cars were then in service, and thai
everything was running smoothly. Tha
cars were stopped at 7 oclock Friday
evening as a matter of precaution, tha
i company said. Almost half the cars
oeionging in regular service were run
ning Saturday morning, according to
general manager Potter's statement
Conditions were exceptionally quiet
all day Friday, one call being receive!
by the police from Fifth and Stanton
streets where a number of sympathize
era had held up a street car and threat
ened violence to the motorman, conduc
tor and a number of passengers. Folic?
were sent to the scene and the sympa
thizers fled.
Union 'Recognized.
Recognition was granted to the lo
cal organization bv telesranh Friday.
br the Amalgamated Association of I
Street and Railway Employes of ; -hia s the
America, wiin neaaquariers at -etruji. i Dv Seth B.
TIL Effective with this recognition. '
IT ir 1' 11. . W D ba rrtn.nl I
crganizer for the Ameilcan Federation
of Labor, was asked by tbe national
order to assist In the work of super-
. vising the strike. He ts working in
conjunction with T. MoHold, who af-
I fected the organization and was lnstru-
I i Mitnl In firlnfrfnr. nn tn t ttr
Strike Committee.
In addition to Walker and McHold,
who are directing the work, a commit
tee has been selected by the men to
look after their interests. This oom-
I mlttee Is composed of C A. Phelps, A.
until midnight. Another thing Is that
..- i ., . .. n- tn Tic. mane wltn
cars that are equipped with hand-
k tr Th mts -with air brakes are i
assigned to the runs where the grades
are not as hard to handle.
Contribute to Club.
"The men are made to contribute 50
cents a month to a socalled club, that
they do not control and that they
get practically no benefits from. The
club Is In a building near the barn, and
was formerly used as a residence. T,he
room that Is used for the club Is about
20 feet wide by 22 feet long. The rest
of the building Is used by the company.
The furniture in the club consists of a
table and a few broken chairs. Io read
ing matter Is provided and the men are
not allowed to take any Into It. Over
150 men have to contribute 50 cents a
month each to maintain this club, but
the company Is now putting cots into It
and getting ready to put 'scab carmen
"As we said before, the organization
is peaceful, but we had to hurry up
and strike on short notice because the
company had found out that we were
(Continued on. Page 7. CoL 1.)
U. S. May Exports, s
Break All , Records
Washington. D. C J-lr 1. Ame
rican exports for May I reached a
total of 472 million dollars, accord
ing to an announcement.xnade today
by the bureau of foreign and do
mestic commerce. This exceeds all
previous monthly records. It Is
greater by 61 million dollars than
the high record for March, "to
300 million dollars more than the
monthly May average frorn 1811 to
1914. The total exports for the
year ended with May were 4136
million dollars, an Increase of one
and one-half billion dollars over the
preceding 12 months, and do-?.1,
tbe total for the year envied with.
May, 1911. The exports for May
were SO million dollars mpre than
the total for the fiscal year 1870.
The imports for May were also the
greatest on record, the total value
being 229 million dollars,1 an ln
traajia of 11 million dollars over
Anrll. the previous high mai-k-
l. I not countenance a war with. Mex.
-L N ico until there is no other alter
native for settling the border troubles,
and that he was ready to sacrifice his
own political fortunes in order to carry
out his convictions as to wnat would
be tha Just course to pursue In the sit
uation, were leading utterances, of
president Wilson In a speech at the
New Tork Press club banquet Frldav
night Tbe president's audience was
composed of newspaper men, state and
municipal political leaders and others
promlent In public life.
When the president asked his aud
itors If the glory of America would be
enhanced by a war of conquest In Mex
ico, he was answered by shouts ol
"no." and a similar response was made
to his query whether "America's duty
to carry self defence to the point of
dictation Into the affairs of another
people." The president said:
Servant of Tbe l'eople.
"I have constantly to remind myself
that 1 am not the servant of those who
riti tn nnhanee the value of their Mex
ican investment but that I am the ser
vant of the rank and file of the people
of the United States."
The president dwiJt also on his ef
forts to serve Xbe whole people, thou
sands of whom, he said, were appealing
to him to maintain peace as long as
possible.
Would Defend Nation's Honor.
"Of course." he said, "it is our duty
Mexico Announces Peace
Workers in U. S. Have No
Connection Vilh Mexico
U.S. WAR PLANS
ARE PROGRESSINC
Troops Reaching Bordi
Many More Recruits .
list in Regular Army
- -yASHnraTON D. C JJ
to prepare this nation tq tafce-eareof
i)9XlXv-ai -T& xn-M. b. vv r
ii nrt or that, except the de
tail, exceot the plan Itself which is r
al-nv tfh.it hie? X
"Of course it is the duty of the gov
ernment, which it will never overlook,
to defend the territory and people of
this country. It goes without saying
that It Is the duty of the administra
tion to have constantly in mind with
the utmost sensitiveness every point
of national honor.
"But gentlemen, after you have said
and accepted these obvious fhlngs, your
program of action Is still to be formed.
When will" you act and how will you
act?
-The e-slest thing is to strike. 'The
brutal thing is the impulsive thing.
No man has to think before he takes
aggressive action, but before a man
really conserves the honor by realizing
tbe ideals of tbe nation, he has to
think exactly what he will do and how
he will do it
"Do you think the glory of America
would be enhanced by a war of con-
quest in Mexico? Do you think that
any act or violence oy a poweriui na
tion like this against a weak and de
structive neighbor would reflect dis
tinction upon the annals of the United
States?
Should Tnlted States Dictate r
"Do you thing that it is our duty
to carry self defence to a point of die-
t tatlon Into the affairs ef another peo
' pie? The Ideals of America are written
, plain upon every page of American his
I tory.
I "I want von to knew how fully I
realize whose servant I am. I do not
own the government of the United
States even for the time being. I have
no right In the use of it to express my
own passions. I have no right to ex
cress my own ambitions for the devel
opment of America. If those ambitions
are not coincident with the ambitions
of the nation Itself. ,
Peace Plans Interest Him.
"I get a great many letters, my fel
low citizens, from important and influ
ential men In this country, but I get
a great manv other letters. I get let
ters from unknown men. from humble
women; from people whose names have
never been heard and never will, be
n,-n.t..tnn nam.K th. flr.t X.l. I J-IIOrt OI WO -T--
poleon. who said that as he looked back ' eminent to restore
In the last days of his life upon so property seized by local aatK
h.A tn --.i-ri th. ii.n'f-m-nt th-t fnrrj. various Mexican states wert.
had never accomplished anything that . to the state department
was permanent agent Rodgers. He sad so
rOITI! ACTOJ1U an .ivi. kst rcn-B coi
"Force will not accomplish anything
that is permanent, I venture to say. In
the great struggle which Is going on.
the other side of the sea. The perma-
nent things will be accompllad after
ward wnen tne opiaioa or aas-ie- is
toosJt Jfc-ar soon the Iss-es. and .
toe only $ tnat win u- i - wori-
gold and silver bullion rece
from Americans aX.
been returned and that Coa1
thoritie- wers restoring roar
horses and cattle.
r. Regers lo -eported
lication In the Mexico Qty pi'
-steady VS-- same silent, insistent; terday of the American note 3
HWOwerf opinion of mankind m-morand-m corrJ
steady unm opinion has time to form, on and criticising It by ra
rut no force that was ever exerted ex- ister Agutlsx. As tee me
- ? "f!5? 5't S!2,:KS had been published in th
force. 'papers Mr. Rodgers did not
Em Respect for Mankind's Opinion, fit
think the sentence in American j Unofficial dispatches from
?to!!-rr. iiZ"11--?,..?1 City state tha Carranxa go-
declaration of independence, where the has announced that the soca-Ie
writers say that a due respect for tbe representatives of Mexico now
opinion of mankind demands that they United states have no concecti
state the reasons for what they are ' " -,,--
ahnnt tn do. I venture to sav that a the Mexican government
decent respect for the opinion of man- May Delay Action TTe-xljc Wee
klnd'derand60 that those who startea Unles Gen. Caxranza's repi
iae yrn uri-H,u -... f- " o,. !.- American note ar
pay any heed to the opinion of man
StSd and.t-e reckoning will come when
the settlement comes. ,
Asks History'- Favorable Verdict.
"So, gentlemen, I am willing, no mat
ter what ray personal fortunes, may be,
to play for the verdict of mankind. Per
sonally, it will be a matter of indiffer
ence to me what the verdict on the
seventh of November Is. provided I
feel any degree of confidence that when
today and is as defiant as pr ,
advices from Mexico City nave
fAteA. It is considered probable x '
dent Wilson will have to watt at Ul
until next week before placing t
M.Tlr-an situation before congress, as
the house planned to adjoorn today
over the Fourth of July.
It was plain that administration- of
ficials were impatient at tne -u-ra
to receive any word or wnen tne aiexi-j
a later lory sts I shall get their Judg- 1 can note might be expected since .in
-,n( in f-.n- vt mv f-or. ner-1 demand for a prompt reply went t.
...,tl. .-.K-t- ,Mrr---n- rinM thnt I Vuien Citv 1-St S BdaT.
trnk-9 'vr r, im favor 99 an honest! Stroacr assurances may be g-ven i
and conscientious spokesman of a great the Mexican reply, it is belieTed by o:
nation. I flcials here, of tbe de racto eover.
"There -are some gentlemen who are! mers ability to protect the bord.
under Use delusion tbat the power ot a; against lurtner rams. - .'-;
n.iinn n-a fmn iht Im. itdocsno-l bossy statea mw men w...
Citizens' Ticket Is "OldRing;"
Nm Names. But TheXSame Old Faces
. ivw -. .--- ,
SethOrndorff Says Kelly's Crowd But Ojunty in'
fices to -Incoming Administration; Takes Hide
ole Before Turning Over Of-
)ff of Candidates on "Ring"
Ticket; Pulls Facts and .figures tip Prove Case.
available for this service if the Ansel
fin foree is witndrawn.
Matter la at Standstill.
TiA-vlrrvmnents in the Mexican crs
were at a standstill while tbe t nil
States government awaiie- iu
It comes from the bottom.
Power Comes From tte People.
"Power and virtue of the tree does
not come from the blossoms, and the
fruit down into the roots, but it comes
m h rr it tn th nhimrft ni ll tffea
-? k- r-rtri rh--- th- nnrn- i Herired . tiantlr Can .nza's reply.
.i-- riu.i,v it Kin-onm snd the Me sarres received at the state
fruit: and I know that among the si- I partxaest from special agent Rod
lent s-eechless masses of the American at Mexico miy maae m meuuu-. o;
neoDle is slowlv coming un that sap of Mexican answer. Mr. itodgers, so
mnni nnrioM -nd love nf tnstlee and . has been unable to forecast the a.'
reverence for humanity, which consti-j of Gen. Carranxa. and the only nt
tutes tne only virtue ana -lsiincuoa i iion rratams owe u.- t.M -..-.
- .w- - .1- I Jt.lr.niaH. Tlrf TlHV tA dlSCAT
Ul rs jt nrrri pnific
"Look for your rulers of the fu
ture. Can yen pick out the families
that are to produce them? Can you
pick out tha tocalittes that are going to
produce them?
Speaks' of Lincoln's Battles.
"You have heard what has been said
about Abraham Lincoln. It ts singular
how touching every reference to Abra
ham Lincoln la It always makes you
feel that you wish that you had been
diplomatic and private dispaJ
These have indicated that the del
trnvernment was . preparing to
by its attitude of hostility towarj
Unite- States troops across iu- gi
Upon his return from New I
president Wilson went oier all Gl
vtees at nana, out icsrut u t
nothing he did not know wan 'J
Alter im v i-i n or
-
fortum
wv r.rnntnra wtTlf.
.... ,... '-or,! ,!nnn' Tt berates and abuses us i
o2 3660.000 was ex-, ployee. Wo replaced inem wu i f Isn tAXta and increastag the
A XWSSSSStSr co.t-orm.lnTenVce
Jr. allegeroads In Bl Paso as fatta, ourTw men failed or , when U supported
thoM m-amrfeS I
oin As fx-taa our own men uiica or i ""?" .- " kk ;T .-i rpt,.. ;
county, and nofWe of good road la showed their Unfitness, we fired them wwca "eT--"S- Yf-O.OOO
t.rt tn bntr tnriav for the money. This i al? .. j I in hands for roads, claiming that the
P. perhaps the main reason which the "5r 11 XLl&fcV?5$&
people of El Paso, city and county, will ' away from the i Time and tfc. paper , taZ onty tbfs last ch-r'ge, I
have in mind when they repudiate has been howling and fighting our to sa thRt we ln to- trsms- I
- . . , . m.-i i administration ever since. . i , cash a balance of S1M.0H .
rather than perpetuate the old ring. .. recovered from . flrm o Uw ' JKo-S f-ztd. On May 1 we had in
wnicn Btw auuvun u-. .v ..--.. , yerg -furney Be iiurges. tne sum tne poor farm lund a naiance ot -,-tbe
-Citizens' ' ticket" I U-,000 which had been illegally paid 87S..2 atter having fitted and fur-
s empnatic siaieraent - oy ine county to tne iirm. uun u. w nished the place, paia op-.iiiib cj--n-nrinrff
nresent county mxmhor- of this firm. W. H. Bur-a ------ .-,1 -Anaiil the sum ot S-..000
commissioner and candidate for sheriff ges is a stockholder ln the Times, and 5 wnich had been borrowed from the
on the ticket or tne rsi rra-o uiy --- ; one or tne sain uir-simo u -i;- 'general tuna.
County Democratic oiud.
"Only the name la new." said Orn
dorff. "The deslfesajlon they use for
their tlckefls S-Mjlsndmer. The faces
are the same old faces worn by the
chronic seeker and bolder of public
n'-lrrlav
.nn . n wwiarv for lilm to addre
! cress he would wait u?ti! Vie&i'
i-i--.- i hi i- f-kinn tn as both houses arra.ng-,1 to a
fight the battles that he was fighting I over the Fourth of
so-Mtimes almost alone. 1331 Added to llesnlarAr.
'And could you have predicted, had
you seen Abraham Lincoln's birth and
boyhood, where that ruling figure of
the world was going to spring from?
TJnlvemitle- Interpret Moral Forces.
I "I nave presiaeo over a -niversiu,
knt T nwr deceived tn vself bv SODPOS-
(Gontln-ed on Psse - Golumn :
A total of Inl6 men we-e swrj
the regular army mis weej
1106 last week, 'i-e prec
ace weekly enlistment
-lvnlwirhOAf1 of 7C0
Durine the 100 davs of i
der the authority era-tec"
(Co-tinned on pace 4,1
Ue policy of the paper. This Is an
nthnr fact which will tend to throw
light upon the paper's policy toward
our administration.
"The Time Is now bltterlv and un
fairly sesailng all the measures which
; V-An unavoidable deficit had been
I plaited for us by the old board before
it WUt OUt Ot Otlice. 11- wo i.wm"- I
nated, In July, and the tax rates were
i- Un Aiicnat- while we did not go
intn nffiw nntil November. That was
office. They all have been there at it formerly advocated and supported. It jn 19 itTftiold board arbitrarily reduced
the pie counter Dexore, r nave trieu iiaroeBiiy aurm-iwi -v uu&--n w .
to land there. Some of them have made audttortum In connection with the .
a hard and persistent effort to run on ce-rthouse, the scrip for the coraple-1
our ticket Men of the roads ln the Talley. and the
"We entered upon our first day's 316O.0M bond Issue for the poor farm,
work by discharging t-.' old Ting em- t whlett farm it now refers to as the 1
th rate I
.3 cents to.
rate for the Ju
to three mills.
(Continued on
the e-enei-1 fund from
cents, and reoncea tne
fund from tnree cents 1
This latter arbitrary
Page 14, CoL .)
Easy for a YounsfiBoy
To Join the Y. M. C.
-. -AH55HALL MYERS see-red 13 new subscribers to T Fl,y
IV- w a member of tbe Y. M. C A. Other boys can o tv sa.
- bow he got his subscribers. Mar-ball satd:
"0 Wenegay afternoon, June -1st, I got two subsc-"bc:
day I txeame discouraged ami saw 1 was going to quit. -iy
aged me and I went oat and got them all. It is no troobl?
take The H Piwo HeraW."
Several other boys have already been s-ceessful ;n w
memberelupe, and a great number are now eaump upTi t
niiaintanees to ohtaiK tbe reowred numDer to win. aj t
the work fe very pleasant as well as profitable. We w.
to join the Y. M. G. A. catagaigii for subscribers. CaH
drculatKm manager ot xe ai iraso tieraia. anu ges 1.
rrariza Insists That Mexico Must live DownVr Her Worst Ts
