THE WAR IN W1EXIC0',1,.,I'
And this is asit should he. fcvi
men to me .colors.
This It Number 271
cry man who loves
NACE
1HE
his country should be w illing to f jht for it. But a bicker army than is needed in Mexico is
needed to withstand the war being waged on our liberties and free initiations by the Roman
Catholic hierarchy. If you wish to enlist in the service for God, Home and Country for forty
weeks, send 25c and your name and address to The Menace, Aurora, Mo.
hr s, iti
MB
IITEN". la the wum cf In-
rnn event, it loeome nec
essary for American to op
pose political Romanism, re
spect for those misguided country
inrn, who imagine popery to be
wholly religious, require them to
declare the cause which ak such
atin nwn'.
We hf.ll the truths to be if If
evident : that a reasonable ami prac
tical freedom it more durable
than tyranny in any form that
repteentatie, republican and
democratic forms of popular gov
ernment are more satisfactory to
self-respecting people than one
man government of any kind
whether represented by war, cm
prror, king, or pope.
We believe that governments, in
stituted among men, should derive
their powers wholly from the con-
aent of the governed; ana that
whoever, by whatever pretense or
profession, assert tuthonty over
mankind by the long discredits
theory of "divine right" ia a fraud
ulent pretender and the enemy of
human freedom. Such pretenders
have ever ao abused their execscive
power aa to cause great diet reus,
and to prove minority rule, in any
form, a detriment to those subject
to it
On the other hand, popular go
ernment, and its related extension of
human freedom, ia no longer an ex
periment. In maintaining that
principle today we are holding to
the course laid by the Revolutionary
fathers and "successfully held
through the critical period of na
tional development. It has brought
tis thus far to greater life, liberty,
and happiness than autocracy has
ever yielded.
Shall we consistently continue in
this distinctively American course,
or shall we abandon the principles
that have made a great nation and
offer its people substantial progress
in the future? That ia the essence
of the question confronting Ameri
cana in this clash of Americanism
with Romanism. We are again
subjected to a long train of abuses
and usurpations pursuing invari
ably the same object of restoring
monarchy under the rule of an ec
clesiastical despot. It therefore be
comes our right and duty to com
bat that tendency, and to provide
L I TTTV In rotiraa f ho-f
KNIGHTS MANGLE FLORIDA CITIZEN
Rowdies Fearfully But Rosen ia Attempt to Gag Free SpeechPapal
Falsehoods Abort Patriotic PressJudge Murray's Subterfuge
1 Exposed Taft's Speech Before Jesuits and Probable Results
' -Three Striking IHastrition; of Attitude of Romanism
im ninwini w minima mw rrna
rrM rnm Iflmm Mao, mm aa iUartraUr tIm laJU apart fraai ikt vital it
aimaia.
Wkta raa raa Jaffa Walla' aarr af thU rriailaat attack aaa Mr. Brra. aik
yMrarM kf m ri aa ta tato aawar. Bar awa Kaltfcla a Calaakaa. ar atta.r aaa
act al l iUaiaa aaaUf aa aiaaawata al laa aaaal arvtaa.
Ia kla lacki Maaaara at tka aaaarfac ml Imin Maary. tka arkaUrir aatkar al
-Caa.tM.ttoa ar ra aawtlMr akaaa ml Baaua CaUMllc tacitra la ik.ir
" M al raairal al tkta fararaaMat. warn ky LUIfytaf aa BMrraaraliaS
taa km. Ik rvaraaraUltraa al tk laaarrklal aaaal arMaaa. ank ta 4lrt laa a.
teaUaa al tka AaMrktaa atactaraai fraai ' aaUlical aaiaMtaaa. aa ara ka tka
atlmal alrtaT aatng aua ta aaaatltata tka aapal for tka raacratt ara. aa
kara aiaa ka Jaaca Maarr's aturaaea torn will ar a farrkrr (tartllaf klkltloa af kaw
Roaa' aaokxlata ara kraraair ararrtac arataal laa al tka M rKal aaraataaa al
aar aaaatnattaa. fiiiiii al raHfiaaa alaraalaa aa fraaaaai af araaa. Daaaarrarr ar.
aaaiaa Initial al aumiiln. fa.i ka. alaara aaafhl ta 111. U. Dranciacy kltra
aa aalilag tka klgwt a facta, far aa wkia. wkal Baaia ra atara Ikaa aartktac
at a I Ik laaraibiathM Ik fraa laMarnatHa af raMalrakl fan. Tk papal ara
taa. Ilk all atkvr aaaarrktal DlUai. araal aappr ar mtrlrt frnai af aprvrk.
prra aa aaaraikljr. Ta atarratia tkaarr faatrr aa ma Ik llikl af larU
aiiaa aa frai af aprark. praaa an aanaiklr. kaUiaf aa Mtnn aa wtaalr
krl. "tkal rraaaa an fn laaalry ara tk aalr rtrr aarala acaiaM arrar," thai
rrar akm aa Ik aapaart af (mraant, aa Ikat kapplaaat aa prar rna walt
apaa fmH.ai af raltalaa, prrtrrt aamallty af arrta afara tk laa. frai af pma aa
af rrMMaai.' Tka aamaamva altraipt a Ja Maary ta raavay Ik bapraaiMm Ikal tk
awartnf af appalataMal af Catk-Uc paitaiaalar. ky fWaatar Bryaa. aaa Ik raaaa al
kta arfaat. la aaatkar aiaaipl al tk rarklraa way la wklck tk apalr af tk papal
ara'aat rrk t ax. Ira Ik paklic wkaa avarraa raararaaat wlk tka facta, kaawa faU
wall Ikat Haaalar Bryaa'a aaiaaaa axaatata af rUaaa kiawtry. ar rathar kw prraill
ttat knaaalf ta ka tka rrtar far tk Katfkta af Calaaikaa k'fatry. Ikal raaar
(raat patrtatki aprlalac la Fkma wkkrk kaa plara Ikat a tat. at tk rr fraat la Ika
rnat aiaiaaialfci raaalaaaaca a.w aawalaf . wkkaj praaitaaa aa kaat am tk aaaaarrk
kvl aaaal ayatrai a tka aaiatalra a tka Tlar, la ky tka Paaiaa katrarcky aa Ha
f artkfal -praaa tka aakrkta a Calaaikaa. tka AacMau aa tka Jeaaiia.
Aa aany. aa Ittaatratraf aaalkar akaaa af tka wrW war ktwa aaiauary aa
tka aa kaa. a a aVapataaaa al tka papal amtrlraty, aa OI4 Wart aalacractoa aa
tka aUMr. Jar Nallaaa aptly npaaaa aat wkal Mr. taffa plaa, wkwk k nrMM
ta tk Utku aaatraa at tka JaaaM CaUaaa. waaU raaalt ka. Tka aMrataa raaarr
af Ja( N.tteM aaaiBMala wfll aaa at awaa, tkat Ika piaa a attaal warklaf waaM
amaaaplaik wkat tka pap aa tk Jaaatta. tk oar. tk prar af Aaatrla. tk Praaataa
kins aa tka SWarWa kkaf af Fraara aaafkl ta arcaatpbak r tka a .IW H.lr A1U
aara. wkaa tafaaaaaa aaaa wra aakaaMy aH fartk ta tka Rarrat Traaty af Varaaa.
Tka) Utter af Jac Narlaaa' aaaal k raa aba fat tka aailaa af paukttic aaclaUaa
fraai araaa ta anaa Ckainaaa a tka MliarkU Baar at Tka Maaaca.
URIXG the recent primary
campaign in Florida, where
in Knighta of Columbus
S I ' were wiped off the polit
ical map, that criminal brigade
committed against Elmer . Rogers
a number of the most craven fel
: onion assaults with which they
v have been permitted to outrage
: American citizenship. Mr. Rogers
is a clean, courageous and high
i minded American citizen residing
t at Sanford, Florida. During the
campaign, the Knighta of Colum
i bus in the fourth Florida district
1 put forth certain candidate for the
' iemocrttic nominatipni and in
new rnards for the Mmritt of hard-f
esrned f reed.m.
The history of the papal Tttir.
ia a history of rrpcatrd injuria
and usurpations. Authentic history
is our witness a it should be a
warning to all. And of all history
the current events of the present
time are inoi-t illuminating. Knowl
edge of these evrnts come to every
ritien fmm time to time, but at
too often ignored on the erroneous
assumption that Home is altogether
religious and takes no part in the
polities of this tountry. To indi
cate tlie real spirit and nirpM of
popery in regard to these United
States, we submit the following
facta to our candid fellow citixens:
The popes .with the assistance of
their cardinal princes, have divided
the United States into papal prov
inces, increased in ntinilcr from
time to time with the progress of
papal plans. Over each province
ther place an archlishop invariably
foreign to American aspirations and
spirit ana usuauv jorcign iv oirm
Each papal province is suMivided
into oiooes.ni districts ruled ly
bishops similar in essentials to
their archbishops. Each diocese in
subdivided into parishes under the
domination of priests. This entire
organization is from the top, in
keeping with monarchy but in di
rect opposition to representative or
popular government.
Tba Public School
We now refer wholly to the Rom
iMi organization. Later we shall
call attention to how it is used and
abused.
The point to be noted nt this
time is that the control of twelve
million papists, to the extent that
they are controlled by the 6o-called
Roman Catholic church, is not ex
ercised by thoe twelve million peo
ple, but is absolutely vested in the
popes, their princes,' and the lesser
agents of the papal system.
The popes refuse their assent to
laws and institutions iictcsary to
a self-governing people. Popular
government is impracticable with
out popular education. We need
schools to prepare Americans for
citizenship; and sueli schools have
been established by the American
people to bo denounced as "OiodleKs''
by the pojies and their agents. The
papal system prefers schools of its
own creation and under its control
as a means of inculcating papal al-
wn GUkrt a. ixatfcmi. Vk-rrwi4mt
r
eta
structed their gang to support those
candidates.
Mr. Rogers opposed the papal
ticket and thereby incurred the
yenom of the militant papist. On
June he went to Orlando to dis
tribute patriotic literature. When
on the road some three or four miles
aouth of Sanford City, he wa met
and overpowered by a band of
ruffian compoeed of Knights
of Columbus of Florida and was
bound and gagged. The felon then
tied a rope around his neck and
threatened him with summary and
instant death unless he would dis
continue hii actiTjrj ia. the cam-
new guard for the security of fcard-
1
In This Year of Our Lord,
Oppose Political Romanism That Forced the Revolutionary Fathers to
Repudiate Kingcraft Pope Benedict as Impossibly anti-American
as King George of England The Lesson of July Fourth
I'giance and its
Ameritan ideas.
(vuliarly anti
Religion was not banished from
the public school through irrelig
ious hostility, but through the de
sire to be practically tolerant of
every faith, and of every person
whether professing a faith or not.
Herein materialize an institution
which ia actually and really catholic
in the full and accurate meaning of
the term. The public echool, be
cause it is adapted to universal use,
is one of the most catholic institu
tions on earth. The least consider
ation must show that there ia a vast
difference between what ia truly
catholic and what is Roman Cath
olic. Rut the monarch of Rome has ro
ne for an educational system "so
catholic that it tolerates all re
ligions while offering its service to
people of everv faith, lie demands
school in whuh his inert iihh
claims to divide right and inVi'i.
fnVify mny bo upheld and inculcated
in minds too tender to weigh them.
Wherefore the ix'pcs, and thei:
ecclesiastical agents in the United
States, forbid the use of the puMii
sdiools bv children of papal sub-
jet ts. The popes set themselves,
ami the powerful organization they
control, against this most csscnthl
of all Ameritan institutions. ly
so doing the pojHs become the en
emy of American civilization: nnl,
to the extent they comply with pa
pal wishes in this particular, the
"children" of his alleged church
participate in that enmity.
The pojes exercise the same auto
cratic authority over their cardinals,
archbishops, bishop, priest, .md
like agents of their creation, tiiat
King George of England cxere.se J
over the colonial governors of his
appointment: nnd the result i
practically the same. The hier
archy opposes desirable Wi.slntion
or insists upon undesirable laws
without reference to the needs and
desires of the people, either Prot
estant or Roman Catholic, but with
reference solely to papal plans. The
control of papist votes and politi
paign
and would leave the state.
lie
refused to do cither, whereupon,
they beat him into insensibility aud
left him mangled and bleeding aud
helpless.
Aa soon as he was physically able
he resumed the distribution of lit
erature. In spite of other dastard
ly assaults committed on him June
5, by traitorous Knights of Colum
bus, he distributed at that time two
thousand copies of his campaign
literature. Rut when friend billed
a speech against the pope' candi
dates, infuriated Knighta of Co
lumbus, armed w ith club and guns,
promptly assembled in a riotous
mob aud prevented the speaking.
When Rogers attempted to vote
in the primary election, the Knights
of Columbus threatened to beat him
into a pulp if he voted. In order
to prevent their murdering him,
his friend spirited him away to the
town of Ixmgwood.
The Knights of Columbus over
played their game, American citi
zens throughout the state of Flor
ida were aroused by the terrible bru
tality of these papal subjects.
Their candidate were overwhelm
ingly defeated. The pope'a ticket
from Senator Bryan down was
routed in all parts of Florida.
From Kansas City, Portland,
Birmingham and Florida came un
mistakable premonition of the
aroused indignation of the Ameri
can people against Roman Catholic
freebooter and desperadoes. A
wireless message has just reached
this bureau that a snow storm of
ballots will bury the whole papal
machine a thousand feet deep next
. 1 rri . . aw
ovemoer. me siorm win oe gen
eral throughout the country.
Knighta of Columbus please take
notice.
falsehoods About Patriotic Press
No falsehood is more popular
with Roman Catholic than the
averment that patriotic newspapers
are attacking the papal relirion.
Erer person acjiiajated with these
""
1916, the Same Reasons Impel Americans to
cians is effectively utilized to that
end at well aa to make statesmen
uWrvi nt.
Popacraft E&Motiall Kingcraft
Not single reform movement
has had Rome's support when such
support wa needed. All of thrm,
including opposition to chattel
slavery and to the liquor trajTlc,
have had to fight Rome until they
practical! v won gneiss and herorr'c
more or Ic popular. Rome U al
ways allied with the big interests,
without consideration of moral
principles involved, until tvrh time
(u otktrt hare fo$ht the baft let
and ron the rictorirt. It ia then
that Rome's representatives are in
evidence to claim whatever credit
or epoila may be obtained.
The papal svstrm has promoted
immigration to this country calcu
lated to colonize America with Ro
man Catholics and hasten it eon
ouest. The IiCopold Foundation
was furthered bv the apal system
in the first half of the nineteenth
century for the double purpose of
removing umlesiralile citizens from
the Roman Catholic Empire of
Austria and their transportation to
the rniteil Mates. Its own agents
i now as busily engaged m the
importation 01 liomnn t athniie
Relgians.
The effect of such scheming is a
general deire for laws restricting
immigration; out Jiome oppose
such legislation to the extent of
papist influence, iwo congresses,
in response to emphatic demand,
have passed bills barring illiterate
immigrants; but Rome has snr
ceoded in obtaining presidential
vetoes that set the will of congress
and the American people aside.
The colonists complained because
King George, taxed theui without
their consent. The pope have loat
the king at the game of taxation,
for they tax the American jeple
hi7i their consent. Of course Ihev
do it in a roundabout way, but with
the same financial results.
Some Americans fondly imagine
that their ancestors 6toppcd taxa
papers knows that they scrupulous
ly refrain from any such attacks.
It is the politics alone and not the
religion of Rome to which patriots
and the patriotic press arc making
resistance. ;
Rome is incurring active hostil
ity of all good citizens solely be
cause of her pernicious determina
tion to thrust sectarian hands into
the public treasury, to destroy free
dom of the press, to strike down
the constitutional right of free
speech, free assembly and free pub
lic sdiools.
Many cringing politicians and
office-holders, believing the political
support of the papal hierarchy ii
essential to politicnl success, have
joined with the papists in charging
those who oppose the political ag
gressions of the pnpal outfit with
being religious bigots.
A typical cxamnle of this delib
erate Roman Catholic effort to con
fuse and mislead the people by sub
stituting a religious issue for the
real one. which ia political only.
appears in the following item pub
lished in In Washington Tost,
June 13, 1916: '
Sees Need of a New Postal Law
I think we shouU htT a law ia
this country athiortrd after that of
Canada, which prohityt from the mails
any port of printed natter that trie to
arous popular feelhif by aeeklns; to
array one class of our citizens against
another through apv4' to religious
prejudice," said Jndse H. D. Maury, of
Xrw Orleans, m tao bbnrebam.
Very recently the Canadian govern
mcnt issued an ordef that forbids the
circulation in Canada, of a certain sheet
whose sole object is So attack Catholics.
Ia my opinion the portal authorities of
our sister country did well to prevent
the transportation Crouch toe mails or
this abominable pubtttloo. I am very
sorry to see that it eoatinuet to circulate
freely in the United Hates. There ia no
excote ia a country like ours where ell
men are free to worah p Uod m their own
fashion, for the diaacniination of litera
ture that appeals osh- to the darker side
of humaa nature by making enemieai ef
anew who would etherwia be good
friseds. I res-ret to lay that a most wa-
reaaonlBg prejudice It Bteriig the soul
'vLT
tion without representation and
shot tnotian hikta to death at Isl
ington and Saratoga: but thev did
Hot do it thev mcrclv shook it o3
for a time. The English monarch's
war was broken to l followed bv
that of an Italian line with refined
method. Kingcraft beianie pope-
crait. ana tayM because it put on
religious appearance.
The papal svstetn is a vast ma
chine for acquiring revenue, and
for so usinir it as to acquire more
revenue. Jts operations begin in
anv community which can be per
suaded that it needs a Roman Cath
olic church. First cornea the beg
ging campaign in which dupes of
the system ana outsiders are beset
by experts who have been trained
to the game. The merchant la re
minded of "the Catholic trade" and
is urged to give as a meana of pleas
ing papist customer, ji ins cus
tomers cot his si ft. the plea miffht
he justified; but. instead of getting
it or anv benefit from it, thev too
are Wing taxed to the limit of en
durance.
The intimation in regard to
"Catholic trade" are virtuallv
veiled threats as many a hard
necKea ana tignt-nstei tradesman
.....-.
nas oisoovrroa to ins sorrow, it is
virtually a demand that the nier
i Hani, whose business depends Ujkiii
good will, must sweeten Rome to
avoid a boycott. Thev give in self-
defense, for there ia nothing else
to do until the social awakening
when this modern method of col
lecting taxea will follow that other
taxation without representation.
What the people pay is now the
priest's or bishop's to manipulate.
Suppose all of it goes into the
building for which it was collected
Sometimes it does, and sometimes
it doesn t. If it does, it becomes an
untaxed investment that is. it
yields no tax to the municipality
state, or nation: though it doe
yield n tax to Rome, nnd that is
precisely what it is for.
Destroying American Industry
Collections, follow rapidly to the
extent of what the tralhc will bear,
of thnusands of Americans right now be-1
rue of theae despicable periodicals.
Just the other day a certain t'nited
sMatoa senator was beaten for re election
in a southern state for causing the ap
pointment of a postmaster who belonged
to a church that was the object of
venomous attack. The passage by con
greaa of a law to put an end to the circu
lation of virions literature of this kind
would be welcomed by all fair-minded
men.
The appointment of a Roman
Catholic postmaster referred to in
tho last paragraph of the foregoing
statement may appear an innocent
performance and devoid of political
significance. But it must be re
memliered that the Roman political
machine has systematically sought
and obtained from the present na
tional administration the appoint
ment of a number of Roman Cath
olic postmasters in all parts of the
country which is out of all propor
tion to the Roman Catholic popula
tion. The appointees, in spite of
their oath of office, have invaded in
many instances the constitutional
right of the people to a free pres
by withholding patriotic papers
from those to whom thev were ad
dressed and by seeking through
threat and intimidation to t! ter pa'
trons of their offices from receiving
patriotic paper through the mail.
Moreover, the defeat of United
States Senator Rrvan referred to
was XOT DUE TO THE AP
POIXTMENT OF ROMAN SUB
JECTS TO THE TOSTOFFICES
IX HIS STATE. It was due
chiefly to HIS OWN 1T
BRIDLED BIGOTRY WniCn
LED HIM TO DECLARE OPEN
LY IN A PUBLIC SPEECH
THAT CITIZENS WHO OP
POSE THE POLITICAL INVA-
SION OF OUR CONSTITU
TIONAL RIGHTS BY THE RO
MAN CATHOLIC HIERARCHY
SHOULD NOT BE PERMITTED
TO VOTE IN THE PRIMARY
ELECTION. Patriots in all parts
of his state answered that nefarious
Continued oa Pag I, Coluaa 4),
ITriei naw rhnrch difioe reanirM anfthat ia BStnT llkftaacea ttT Jrv
Tfc Btv church difica require aa
organ, an altar, statuary, bVlla, and
attachment too numerous to men
tion. Each call for money ; and as
soon at the pop'a tax gatherer get
one item provided for they art
reafly to begin on another, ween
the proceM once start it baa bo
ending. When the church edifice
ha been marbled and gold-plated
to the limit, there mut be a pa
rochial school, then a hospital, then
House of the Good Shepherd, and
other house too numerous to men
tion or ever finish. Taken together
thev constitute a sponge to soak up
the loose change of the community
And then cornea the next serie of
financial operations for which this
first provides the capital.
It ia now not a modest and self
sacrificing nun, but a worldly wise
bishop who holds title to all the
of the Romish corporation
in his diocese. He bonds the prop
erty for what he can borrow upon
it, and invest the money a he and
his colleague may desire. They
can't beg money o auccessfullr to
buy laundry machinery and sewing
machine, o they mortgage the
property thev already have: and.
with the proceeds go into business.
With the capital so upplied.
with slave labor furnished by mu
nicijal courts, nothing more Is
needed but soap and water to get
into the laundry business on a bant
that ditanre competition. The
feet it to heat conn the raqe of
leaitimate laundry rorlrrs, and
eventually put nage-paying laun
drymen out of Cmii'.m. And to
it m and trill be in other hranrhe
of indutru o Home acquires the
capital to enter them.
If there i any virtue to le de
rived from hard work, these II. 0,
G. S. sweatshops supply the de
mand In prolusion, i oung women
are comparatively easy to control
especially with city's police force
nt the service of their drivers to
capture and bring them hack to
the slavery they sometimes try to
escape. The pope' laundries, there
fore, get free buildings, free ria
vhinery, free lalior, and free guards
to leep their rebellious slaves in
sul jert ion. The advantage these
privileges give them over laundries
that pag tares and wages is not only
dedsire. but dftrin live of legiti
mate tompelitiun. Hut it bring
revenue to the papal tystem, and
that's uhat it is for.
The colonial fathers complained
PORTLAND PUBLIC
riends of Democracy Call a Halt on Attempt to Rotnanlzo Public
Schools in Portland. OregonHow Rome Wars on Democracy
Through tho Private and the Public Schools Pope Leo
Held Up as a Model to American School Children
yvi. June im, me patriotic
'Trl citizens of Portland. Oregon.
scored a decisive victory in a
I clear-cut battle between the
avava "f fail JI ! i'
upholders of fundamental democ
racy ana our non-sectariHn tree
school system on the one hand, and
the upholders of the monarchial pa
pal system on the other.
This contest was one of the most
stubborn, determined and exciting
public school battles of recent years.
The friends of democracy and the
subjects of the pope alike realized
what the issue meant and fought
accordingly. Had not Rome over
stepped lierself in her insolent ar
rogance, it is probable that 1 rotes
tant Portland would still be sleep
ing under the influence of the
Knight of Columbus chloroform
committee lecturers and the faith
ful editorial servitors of the papacy
in the daily press. But, happily for
democracy, the Roman Catholic
Judge Munly who occupied a com
manding position on the school
committee was apparently so desir
ous to further the papal educational
campaign of hit fnenas, the
Kniqhtt of Columbut. that he let
one Teter Coilins, a chosen repre
sentative of this organization, lec
ture in the public schools of Port
land on patriotism.
Now what great historic character
do von suppose this lecturer se
lected as a model for the youths of
Portland to imitate, tn their effort
to orer tip patriotic citizens of a
free republic t Ceorge Washington,
the lather of this country .' 1 noma
Jefferson, the author of our great
Magna Charta of freedom, the Dec
laration of Independence, and one
of the greatest of the matcrbuilder
that ia mas? InaUncea ther
deprived by FJag Georgt of tbe
benefit ef trial by jury. King
Oeorge' o-Tioers errmsed a teaser
hip; and their denuaeiataon wwa
sufficient to cocdema the aeroeed.
Ia like manner the papal 171 tarn
ek to establish a eeusortBip, at
first of the pree, by effort to em
power the rtmasterernerl with
autocratic authority e as saey nf
prrss nesrtpapr e4 destroy m
publisher's butinett on hit cm ini
tiative end vi f ' m 1 jure fru! or
other appropriate meams of red rest.
Censors Or J arte 1?
Trial by jury ft one ef the most
prerxouM nghlt posseued by the
American people; but it ioet not fit
veil into the monarchist plans of
the papacy. Juriet ere distinctly
democratic in the vertonnel end
methodt. Juriet give elleged oh
fendert the benefit of trial a to
facte by kit neighbort intend of
being railroaded tvmmarily by cf-
ficert cf the ling. CENSORS
ARE CREATURES OF Tr.
RAXT9. WniLE JURIES ARE
OF TllE rEOPLE. LIBERTY
AXD JUSTICE CAN BE
TRUSTED TO THE LATTER
OXLY.
We, therefore, a American citi
zens conscious of the cost and value
of our free institutions, do most
earnestly believe and. declare that
the United States of America
should be wholly free from papal
dictation and from the disruptive
effect of papist in public office.
We are driven to this radical posi
tion not by personal ill will or re,
ligious consideration, but because
of the fact that the real church of
Rome the popes, cardinal, and
clorgy is primarily a political cor
poration principally intent on
gaining control of thfa nation for
the purpose of netting aside it con
Mitutional government and putting
in its place the monarchial and
aristocratic mlo of Rome.
We are convinced that papal
meddling in the rublie affair of
this country should cease; and that
the sooner political Romanism is
checked and definitely defeated in
its designs upon American democ
racy, the sooner we may feel secure
in the liberties we possess and in
the possibility of perfecting our
utilities and enlarging our, free
dom. SCHOOL VICTORY
of modern democracy? Abraham
Lincoln, the preserver of the union,
and the great successor of Washing
ton and Jefferson? No, these men
all stood for the democratic system
of government, uhich flung in the
teeth of the papal tystem the doc
trine of freedom of speech, freedom
of press, freedom of assembly and
absolute divorce of church and stale.
Mr. Collins is a Roman Catholic,
a Knight of Cotumbut, a believer in
the papal tystem of government,
and so what more natural than that
he should select as the model for
young American to Imitate, a pope,
a representative of a tystem most
archxal in spirit and character, and
vhtch has consistently opposed our
system of absolute divorce of cAatrca
and ttate in all Catholic, lands, as it
has also opposed, uherever and
whenever it dared, freedom of
speech, vress, assembly, and ef r
ugtout awnission, una unore repre
seniativet today are opposing all of
these things n thxs republic a
pope, moreover, who, during the
past quarter of a century declared
that he stood in the place of Ood
Himself, on earth, and who sweep
ingly condemned popular sovereign
ty, and freedom of prtss and speech,
and mho criticised our American
tystem of absolute divorce of c Aatrra
and ttate.
A Summary of the) Contest ";
The following facts from a com
munication written us on June 14.
by Mr. A. J. Martin, a highly
esteemed business man or Portland,
Oregon, should interest aH friend
(Coatiaued aa Tap s, Columa I) j
r
