i
L
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916
NUMBER 39
h:'
& :
is :"
iCr
.ft
nv.
r
1'
THE PARTY THAT TEDDY THE NOISY
FORMED SERVICE IN
His Theory Then Was That the Repub
lican Party Was Made Up of
Thugs and Thieves
Now He Reverses Himself and Affec
tionately Embraces Them as
Comrades and Patriots
It was no further back that 1912
when Teddy the Noisy formed a new
party among whose select members
we may name our only John Albus,
Dr. Charley Gelger and numerous
other more or less influential citi
zens, to preach to the voters the de
lectable theory that the Republican
party was composed of burglars,
porch-climbers, thugs, thieves and
malefactors, with whom no self-respecting
man could afford to affiliate.
Capt. John A. Duncan, Ralph Stau
ber, George V. Webb and a host of
leading local Republicans opposed the
Teddy doctrine of thus summarily
dubbing them, but were swept off
their feet In the maelstrom of noisy
abuse, and not until after the Teddy
fiasco In Chicago three weeks ago
have they regained their equilibrium.
In 1916 the colonel, having edu
cated several million voters to his
way of thinking, has gone Into re
verse gear. He is trying to make
those several millions believe that
robbers and liars and men with soft
bodies and hard faces should be em
braced as comrades and patriots, part
ners In the glorious enterprise of
"anything to beat Wilson."
Penrose, Smoot and Crane are the
active partners fn the organization
that Is to manage this campaign. Be
cause they are, they have changed
from pirates in a fortnight and have
become splendid fellows, fit to clasp
the colonel's noble hand. He com
mands his followers, In the language
of Governor Johnson, to "sit at their
feet" and Imbibe truth and beauty, not
to mention sweetness and light.
No More Respectable than Taft
It Is a fine exhibition of audacity,
but It will fall to achieve Its purpose.
Mr. Hughes Is a respectable "candi
date, it is true, but no more so than
Taft was, and just about as "progres
sive." And the burglars are In
charge of the party. The lofty ideals
that adorned the Progressive party
platform in 1912 are reposing today,
not In the platform of Mr. Hughes
and the burglars, but of President
Wilson and the Democrats. The Re
publican platform is just as full of
sawdust and as destitute of anything
alive and kicking and forward look
ing as was that of 1912.
Though they emitted several thou
sand words on Monday, In the desper
ate effort to join an Issue with the
Democrats, the colonel and the judge
failed mlseiably. The colonel would
have Wilson despised because he did
RAMSEY GETS 15 MONTHS
The Reverend Lothario Will Spend
His Vacation In the Pen
at Leavenworth
That pious fake, Rev. J. J. Ramsey
of this city was on trial at Hastings,
Neb., last week on the charge of
white slavery, he having Induced Mrs.
Mary Tltel of South St. Joseph to go
to Hastings and other points with
him, where he passed her off as his
wife, and his arrest followed. Judge
Munger sentenced him to fifteen
months at hard labor In the Leaven
wot th penitentiary.
Mrs. Mary Tltel, star witness In the
prosecution, sprung a surprise in the
trial by turning state's evidence. She
declared that she bad intended to
stand by Ramsey until the latter's at
torney, J. E. Wlllets, called her a
common prostitute In his opening
statement to the Jury, She said sbo
laid supposed that Ramsey loved her,
Mrs. Tltel told of receiving $8 at
Leavenworth, Kans., from Ramsey,
while he was In Hastings. She said
she used the money to pay her ex
reuses to Hastings. This testimony
ngrced with that given by C. A. Cook,
St. Jobcpli, Mo.; Frank B. Noyes,
1912
not "protest" over the invasion of
Belgium. The judge would damn him
because he did not prevent the sink
ing of the Lusltanla. But the colonel
does not tell what he would have
done had the "protest" failed, nor the
judge Just how he would have saved
the ill-fated liner.
What Would They Have Done?
Would a protest from across the
seas have stopped Germany from
striking the first mighty blow, long
prepared for, with which she expected
to win the war? If it had not, would
the colonel, in Wilson's place, have
declared war on Germany? In Wil
son's place now would he also de
clare war on Great Britain and France
because of their equally flagrant vio
lation of Greek neutrality?
Would the Judge have saed the
Lusltanla by warning Germany that
the sinking of any British ship,
whether carrying munitions or not,
!
i
with American passengers on board,
would be the signal for war? Or
would he have forbidden passenger
ships to clear from our ports with
munitions aboard? If by either of
these means, or by some other, he
would have saved the Lusltanla, why
doesn't he frankly specify? Surely It
should be eas for him,' matching his
hindsight against Mr. Wilton's fore
sight, to tell Just how he would have
done better!
Only to "Beat Wilson"
For the rest, the colonel and the
Judge have no issue excepting this
only "beat Wilson." Strike down the
pilot who Is bringing the ship safely
into port! Strike him down because
we, in his place, think we could have
brought It in Just as safely in some
other way! Strike him down because
we hate him, damn his liver and
lights, and because we are ngainst
him whatever he does and however
he does It! Such Is their platform,
such the burden of their song.
It is not, we venture to predict, a
plea that will appeal very strongly to
American patriotism, to American
sanity, to the inborn American love
of fair play, to the American sense of
gratitude. It is sordid and selfish and
narrow. It Is such a mixture of per
sonal spleen and petty politics as has
no place in a great national campaign
waged In the greatest republic at a
time when the world Is In flames and
when truly great and patriotic men
are exercising all their energies to
save civilization from the wreck that
threatens it.
Hastings; C. M. Ferris, Miss Alma
Koch, Edward McCIane and Clarence
Carver, Leavenworth, Kans.
Ramsey testified that he was never
Intimate with Mrs. Tltel, but occupied
a different room while staying with
her at Hastings. Somehow the jury
did not believe him.
JUDGE STARK HERE
He Visits St. Joseph In the Interest
of His Candidacy for
Supreme Judge
Judge Charles B. Stark of St. Louis
was in the city Thursday and Friday,
looking after his Interests In his race
for Judge of the supreme court. His
only opponent Is Judge A. M. Wood
son, the present Incumbent. Judge
Stark received a hearty welcome from
his friends here, and made many new
and substantial ones. He Is feellnn
well pleased with his prospects.
"At every point which I have vis
ited," said Judge Stark, "I have met
with the most substantial and pleas
ing encouragement. The people seem
to lake most kindly to my candidacy,
and I have no words to properly ex
press my appreciation of their good
wishes and Intentions."
JUDGE RYAN'S REASONS
Why He Should Be Elected Judge of
Division No. 3 of the
Circuit Court
"To the Voters of Buchanan County:
"1 submit my candidacy for judge
of Division No. 3 of the circuit court
solely upon my character as a man,
my ability as a lawyer, my loyalty to
my party and my record as Judge of
the criminal and juvenile couits.
"I have practiced law In Buchanan
county for forty years and have never
been a candidate for or elected to but
two offices In this county. I was
elected prosecuting attorney in 1882,
and in 1908, twenty-six years after
ward, I was a candidate and was
elected criminal Judge of the county,
and re-elected In 1912. each time by
an increased majority. My plurality
In 1912 over my opponent was 5,159.
"I am not a candidate for the third
term as judge of the criminal court,
and would not be a candidate now
were It not for the fact that my ene
mies who attempted to legislate me
out of office, having failed to accom
plish this purpose, yet did succeed in
abolishing the criminal court of this
county and creating a new circuit
court.
"I am a candidate for that office,
because any man has the right to
aspire to a higher office if he has the
ability to fill It, and I have that abil
ity; and because I have been urged by
the best people In the community to
make the race.
"Rotation In office has never been
nnttlfol tn (ha nfflrta t lllilnn tn tltla
or any other Intelligent community.
. The following facts will prove the cor
reciness 01 mis statement:
"Judge Silas Woodson filled the of
fice of criminal judge from the time
of Its creation until his death, ten
years. Judge Casteel filled the office
for ten years. Judge Grubb was clr-
cult judge twenty-four years. A. M.
Woodson served fourteen years, then
became supreme judge for ten years
and Is now a candidate and will be
elected for ten years more. Judge
Ramey served fourteen years and was
defeated then only because he was
physically Incapacitated. Judge Burnes
has served eighteen years and will be
j elected again for six years more.
t Judge PorIerfiTIdrar the"" end of Ills
present term, will have served twenty
years as Judge of the circuit and ju-
Ivenlle courts of Jackson county, being
leelected the last time by a majority
of 30,000.
I "The people do not experiment with
judicial timber. If they elect a capa
ble, efficient and honest officer, th'ey
retain him as long as he Is capable
and will serve the community.
j "If my judicial conduct is deserv
ing of approval, then I feel assured
that I will receive the support of the
honest and intelligent people of the
community and will be nominated and
elected to the honorable and high of
fice to which I aspire.
"Respectfully submitted,
. "THOMAS F. RYAN."
ONE OF "BILLY" SUNDAY'S CON
I VERTS
Oscar Murphy, who lived near
Snilthvllle, committed suicide and at-
'tempted to kill his wife last Friday.
He had been a victim of emotional
1 Insanity and after coming home from
ttfe Sunday meeting in Kansas City,
sang before the pictures of his dead
j mother and child and told them that
they would all meet In a few minutes.
I He tried to kill his wife with a razor,
hut she got hold of the weapon and
Iran. Mr. Murphy then shot himself
in the head and near the heart. The
funeral wes held Saturday. The de
ceased is survived by his wife and
' their two children. Edgerton Journal.
BOOHER WILL BE CHAIRMAN
4
With the defeat of Congress-
man Sparkman of Florida, who
was chairman of the national
rivers and harbors committee of
the House, last week when
Sparkman failed of renomlnatlon.
Congressman Charles F. Booher
of this district, who is now the
ranking member of that commit-
tee, will at the next session of
congress. If he is re-elected, be-
come, by rotation, tho chairman
of that most Important commit-
tee. This committee is the one
that controls the river appropria-
tlons, In which St. Joseph is now
so vitally interested on account
of Lake Contrary, and with
Booher at the head of this com-
mlttee St. Joseph would be given
much needed consideration.
'
l
QUTSIDE TALENT AGAIN
St. Joseph Does Not Seem to
Have the Brains to Master
Any Enterprise
."
"Considering the fact that two
das work was all that had been 4
done, and also that many larger
.subscriptions
which had been
promised for yesterday did not
materialize, this showing was
considered remarkable. Campaign
Manager Kester said that his
partner, E. J. Hockenbury, was
.in a campaign for $40,000 in
Rochester, Pa., on the same
dates that St. Joseph was hold-
ing a charity campaign. The re-
port on Saturday there was just
;oier $11,000. Kester declared uesire to iHy Deiore me voters oi tne tourtn .Missouri district in particular
',that it was plainly evident that sucn acts and findings which I believe you are entitled to know with refer
'With a few more days of con- i ence t0 tne conduct and acts of some of your public officials, so that In making
slstent work the entire amount 'your decision as a party, or as an Individual, you will have the chance and
asked for would be forthcoming." 'opportunity to cast your ballot according to the dictates of your conscience,
Tuesdays Gazette. and m tne interest of jour country, as patriotic and true Americans should do.
Now that the money for the ! "Naturally, my good friends or the Fourth dlstrlct.I have your interest at
charities of St. Joseph has been lneart by reason of the fact that it was within the borders of your district,
raised, no one can criticize if the over thirty years ago, I first saw the light of day, and from that time until
remark Is made that no one in
St. Joseph seems to be possessed
of sufficient brains to engineer
any enterprise, and on the con-
trary outside talent must always
be secured. Further, it would
seem that "commercialized rell-
gion" is not the only thing that
is on the list, for it is indicated in
The Gazette's story that not only
Is It necessary to get all of the
("talent" outside of St. Joseph,
but that the "-manager," who cost
St. Joseph $500 to raise this char-
ity fund, is In the business as a
professional, for he himself
states that "his partner" was con-
ducting a similar campaign in
Rochester, Pa., for what there
was in It.
Possibly the St. Joseph mer-
chants and business men are get-
ting just a trifle tired of the con-
tinual demand upon them for
money, and especially when hired
foreign agitators (because no one
In St. Joseph is smart enough)
are employed at so much per to
pull their legs.
NO "DEATH HYMNS'
He Wanted to Hear a Speech, Not a
Dirge and Hyphenated
Lament
"I went to the Ljceum to hear a
speech, and not a lament." said one of
the well-known Republicans of St
Joseph (and this paper will, on
proper presentation of facts, give his
name), who conducts one of the best
drug stores on Felix street, as he
returned from that great get-together
meeting of the Republicans of St. Jo
seph Tuesday night, at which time all
of the Ills and all of the "weaknesses"
of the Democratic party were to be
"exposed."
"When I went there I wanted to
hear what was to be the policy of the
rejuvenated and reunited Republican
party," but instead of that. Doc Gel
ger got up and whlled away an hour
telling what he thought should be
done, and then a "Rev." Middleton
splashed words around promiscuously
for and hour and said nothing. Then
some fellow named Stone and his
name Is appropriate told about the
virtues of Arthur Brewster, who was
a former St. Joseph postmaster and
whose "virtues" are already too well
known, and consumed another hour in
t-o doing. By that time I was pretty
tired and I just got up and left, and
as I was going out, to add to my
misery, some quartette got up and
sang a Baptist death hymn. If our
fellows cannot do better than that I
shall not attend any more of these
get-together meetings, no matter If
John Albus, Oscar Schmldtz and their
crowd are there to howl themselves
hoarse In the hope that they may get
office later."
AS TOLD BY GEORGE JONES
Parson Lewis, who was not averse
to an cccaKional toddy, hired an Irish
man to clean out his cellar one morn-1
Ing. Pat started in work with a will,
and found, among the other rubbish,
a number of empty bottles. Pat care-'
fully examined each bottle by holding'
It to the light. I
The minister, looking down to see
how Pat was getting along with the
work, saw him looking through the
bottles, and called out:
"They are all dead ones, Pat."
"Indade. now, are they, sur?" re
plied the Irishman. "Well, there's
wan good thing about It they all had
th' minister wjd Vm when they wuz
Urln!"
EVEN THE OUTSIDERS RECOGNIZE
CONGR ESSMAN BOOKER'S WORTH
That not only In the Fourth district of Missouri is Congressman Charles
F. Booher appreciated, Is shown by the following letter received this week from
Will L. Huyette, formerly of this rlty, but now of Clarkston, Washington,
where he Is now a leading banker and also one of the state board of bank
I examiners. Mr. Huyette was for several years connected with the Park bank
, of this city and Is a son of the late Marshall L. Huyette. His letter tends to
.show that Congressman Booher has made a name for himself outside of the
! Fourth district. Mr. Huyette says:
"The writer, having kept In close touch regarding the interest taken,
anl efforts put forth, by the various representatives in the Congress of the
l United States, who represent the great commonwealth of Missouri, and for
fear that jou will be misled by those who hold partylsm above patriotism, I
tne year laua l was a resident or jour community, since which time I have
been a resident of the Great Northwest.
"St. Joseph and vicinity in fact, I might say the whole of what com
prises northwestern Missouri have given to the world great, able, and noted
men men who in their chosen professions of life, and from a business stand
point have made and accomplished wonderful success men who as states-
CONGRESSMAN CHARLES F. BOOHER
men, poets, railroad builders and manufacturers, have left behind great monu
ments to their memories men who from a political standpoint have served
you faithfully, and with fidelity and zeal. Surely you have not forgotten such
empire builders and constructors as Hon. James N. Burnes, Eugene Field, W,
C. Brown, John Donovan and James McCord, and a great many others who
have left behind very eminent records of which the community as a whole
should he proud indeed. Now if the above facts are accepted by you In the
spirit in which they are written, then let me call your attention to your PRES
ENT CONGRESSMAN, WHO HAS SERVED YOU SO FAITHFULLY AND
WELL FROM THE TIME YOU FIRST SENT HIM AS YOUR REPRESENTA
TIVE to the congress of the United States, up to the hour of this writing.
"CONGRESSMAN BOOHER IS RECOGNIZED OUTSIDE OF HIS DIS
TRICT AS A .COURAGEOUS, DEEP-THINKING, HONEST-HEARTED AND
ABLE MAN, always loyal to his district and In every way worthy of the great
honor which you have conferred upon him. SOME OF MISSOURI'S REPRE
SENTATIVES, IN BOTH THE UPPER AND LOWER HOUSES OF CON
GRESS, have at times seen fit TO OPPOSE OUR PRESIDENT when loyalty
to his principles which he was advocating at that time meant the future SAL
VATION OF OUR REPUBLIC, but In every instance during that critical
period, like a soldier faithful to bis trust, Congressman Booher never cast a
vote against an administrative measure, but always fearlessly stood by our
great president and voted for his principles advocated In every Instance
"Now if President Wilson is right, then Congressman Booher is right, by
reason of his loyalty p the administration measures, which were in a large
degree passed at the last session of congress and are now a part of the laws
of the land. If Congressman Booher is wrong, then President Wilson is
wrong, and It Is your duty, if you feel that what has thus far been accomplished
in the way of legislation, and what has been averted, by reason of far-sighted
statesmanship, is of no benefit to your district, or to the people who ate &
part of jour dlstiict, then jou should send another man to congress and help
put a man otherwise than President Wilson In the presidential chair, and
when you do that jou are breaking an established precedent, which has been
handed down by our forefathers, and een advocated and carried out by
leaders of other than our own party. Presidents Lincoln, Hayes and Grant.
"We Democrats of northern Idaho and eastern Washington, who know
him, feel greatly Indebted to your able congressman in many ways. Especially
do I speak for the Lewiston, Idaho, and Clarkston Valley citizens. Our twin
cities, located on the banks of the beautiful Snake River, at the mouth of the
Clearwater River, where It empties into the Snake River, have betn trjlng
for a great many jears to secure open navigation to the sea during every
month of the year We feel that on account of the recent defeat for renoml
natlon of Chairman Stephen A. Sparkman of Florida, now Chairman of the
National Rivers and Harbors committee, and by reason of the able record
made by Congressman Booher be'ng one of the oldest members of this com
mittee, If re-elected to the congress of the United States, with a Democratic
congres", be will he logically In line for the chairmanship of this important
committee. We feel that this one thing within Itself, If allowed to come to
pass, will be a great and lasting benefit to those of us who desire rivci im
provement in the Great Northwest, and In addition a most valuable asset to
tho residents of the Fourth congressional district, which, by reason of exist
ing circumstances, has made It almost impossible for the Fourth district, or
any other district, to secure river appropriations to any degree of satisfaction.
Cent nued
on Page Eight)
I
