THE BARRE DAILY,. .TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 92.
BAH RE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TREMENDOUS DRIVE
STARTED BY BRITISH
Following Terrific Bombardment For
An Hour and a Half Over a Front
Covering 20 Miles They Launched
Infantry Attack and Swept Over the
German Front Line
ATTACK IS DEVELOPING
WITH FIERCE INTENSITY
VERMONTERS SHOULD BE PROUD,
Of History of Their Satte, Declares Pres
ident Wilson.
Burlington, July 1. resident Wilson
has scut the following reply to Kev,
James S. Draker, pafitor of the Baptist
church here, in response to the letter's
invitation to be identified with the serv
ices of Vermont Sundays
"My Dear Mr. Braker:
"May I not send this line as a very
modest contribution to the celebration
of the 12(ith anniversary of the admix
sion of Vermont to the union ? All her
sons must be very proud of the land and
honorable history of the Green Mountain
state.
"Cordially and sincerely yours,
"Woodrow Wilson."
Already the British Have Captured
Many Prisoners and Their Own Losses
Have Been Comparatively Light, Ac
cording to Official Report From Brit
ish Headquarters French Join in the
Movement
British Headquarters in France, July 1. A tremendous British
offensive was launched at half past seven this morning over a front
extending 20 miles north of the Sorame. The assault was preceded
by a terrific bombardment. The British troops already have occu
pied the German front line and have captured many prisoners.
The bombardment lasted an hour and a half.
It is too early as yet to give any but the barest particulars of
the fighting, which is developing in intensity. The British casual
ties so far have been comparatively light, according to the official
repoxt.
Simultaneously with the launching of the British offensive, the
French infantry advanced to the attack over a section of the
French line adjoining the junction with the British front.
The artillery bombardment of the past few days was concentrat
ed this morning with a degree of fury and with a number of guns
unprecedented in the region of Albert and the river Somme, with
the French co-operating to the south.
At 7:30 o'clock, through clouds of smoke and dust which hung
over the field so far as the eye could see, infantry sprang from
their trenches for the assault. The new British trench mortars,
which fire 35 shots per minute, played a great part, cutting the
wire entanglements and destroying the trenches. The prisoners
taken say that the British curtains of fire prevented them from
getting food during the last five days.
17 WATCHES RECOVERED.
Were Part of the 65 Stolen from
Chester Store.
Chester, July 1 Seventeen of the 05
watches stolen from F. C. Locke's store
in this village last Wednesday night
were found yesterday beside the road
near Troctorsville and brought back to
the proprietor of the looted store. This
is the first clew as to the direction tak
en by the burglars.
MONTPELIER
Arthur W. Daley Sells His Business to
Short & Hawkins.
Arthur W. Daly sold to-day his bowl
ing and pocket billiard, cigar and confec
tionery establishment on .state street to
Thomas H. Short and Robert II. Hawkins.
The purchase price was not made public.
The new owners expert to take possession
Monday.
Daly's, as it was bent known, was
opened two years ago next fall, after
three bowling alleys were installed and
the interior remodeled to accommodate
three pool tables and cigar, tobacco and
confectionery counters. It is understood
that the new owners will put in a lunch j
counter. Mr. Short conducted for manv
ears a restaurant on Main street, and
us partner has been employed at, me
Elks home in Montpelier for a number
of vears.
Mr. Daly's plans for the future are un
certain as yet.
HEADQUARTERS IN BURLINGTON.
For Vermont Association of Tuberculosis
More Active Work Planned.
Burlington, July 1. Dr. Charles 1".
Dtilton, secretary of the state board of
health, announced last night that ar
rangements had been completed for hav
ing the permanent headquarters of the
Vermont Association of Tuberculosis at
the office of the state board of health in
Burlington. This arrangement will have
the association the expense of oflice rent
and also make possible the closest co
operation with the state board. The sec
retary of the association will also be.
an employe of the state board of health
and have charge of the tuberculosis de
partment. I he association will be, in
fact, but an increasing of the activities
of the board of health against this dis
ease by the addition of local chapters
in every town and the voluntary con
tributions of the people of the state.
The task of securing charter members
of the association who will pay a mem
bership fee of one dollar is still going
on. hvery mail brings in a number oi
ARE STILL SEARCHING
FOR 2 SECTION MEN;
DENNEIIY IS ALIVE
Montpelier Authorities Now Incline to Be
lief that Dennehy and Riley Quar
reled with the Italians and
That Dennehy Was Shot
By One of Them.
The condition of John Dennehy, the
Haverhill, Mass., boy who was shot at
Montpelier Junction by an unknown per
son Thursday night and whose name has
been on the dangerous list at Heatou
hospital, was reported this forenoon ti
be about the same. The doctors do not
hold out any hope for his recovery, how
ever.
The officials are not inclined to be
lieve that Riley, the injured youth's pal,
had anything to do with the shooting
and efforts will be turned to getting hold
of two Italian sect ion men. It is thought
probablo that Riley and Dennehy had
new members, although the total is stul been drinking and that they caused some
tr short of the mark set for starting disturbance, causing the Italians to
the association. Next Friday afternoon shoot. It ia said that tramps have fol
at 2 o'clock at the health officers' school lowed the custom of breaking into shacks
in the high school auditorium the plana at the junction and stealing articles.
of the association will be presented to all
of the health officers of the state, and GIVEN FAREWELL BANQUET.
they will be invited to help by aectirin;
new members in the.ir respective towns. Mason S. Stone, for Many Years at Head
At this meeting Dr. Charles J. Hatllcid,
secretary of the National Association fur
the Prevention of Tuberculosis, will lie
one of the speakers.
The allies are now on the offensive on virtually every field of the
war. The British assault comes on the heels of great successes by
the Russians in Galicia and Bukowina, which have resulted in com
pletely driving the Austrians from Bukowina and are still continu
ing. On the Italian front, the central powers have also met with
severe reverses and for several days the Italians have been steadily
driving the Austrians from position after position in the Trentino.
The defense of Verdun by the French also appears to have stiffened
and the balance of the battle in that sector seems recently to have
swayed in favor of the defenders.
The only front in the whole war theatre where comparative quiet
reigns to-day is in the Balkans, and the predictions of the allied
advance in that region have been numerous recently. There have
been several minor indications of portending raids and efforts by
the Bulgarians to strengthen their lines by the occupation of fort
resses on the Greek" frontier. The newspaper correspondents at
Saloniki have estimated that the allies have a total of 600,000 to
700,000 veteran soldiers concentrated in their lines in that district,
while the highest estimate placed on the Bulgarian forces, which
must oppose them, is between 300,000 and 400,000 men.
DEATH STRUGGLE
ON VERDUN FRONT
GROWS FIERCER
French and Germans are Taking Posi
tions and Losing Them All Within
the Peripd of 24 Hours Nancy
Bombarded By German Guns.
Paris, July 1. After four violent at
tacks with liquid fire, the Germans suc
ceeded in capturing a position east of
Hill 304. which was taken by the French
yesterday. The French made a counter
at tick and recaptured the position, ac
cording to an official statement. After
several furious assaults the Germans sue
reeded in penetrating the works around
Thiatiniotit, captured previously by the
French. The approaches to Thiaumont
are still in the hands of the French.
On the west of the Meuse fighting o!
great violence lasted throughout the night
in the neibhorbood of the Estnes
Avocourt road. The Germans attacked
heavily both east and west of Hill 30.
but most of their attacks were repulsed.
Xancy was bombarded by German lon
rang guns.
RUSSIAN FLEET WITHDRAWN.
After German Attacking Squadron Had
Been Reinforced.
London, July I. A despatch to Reu
ter's Telegram company from Stockholm
says that steamers which have arrived in
port witnessed a battle Thursday night
IS miW south of Landsort, south of
Stockholm.
They report that a Russian squadron
with a few torpedo boats and torpedo
boat destroyers was attacked by Ger
man feet comprising cruisers and large
warsi'ps. At the cutset the Germans
were unable to defeat the Russians, but
eventually reinforcements were obtained
and it is supposed the Russians withdrew
northward.
The correspondent adds that nothing
was visible from the coast of the report
ed battle, owing to the fog, but that gun
filing was heard throughout the night
and at 6 o'clock yesterday morning a
fresh and violent cannonade began.
Using Olive OiL
Most of the best tonics and beauty
preparations we have come directly from
nature. To be sure, they all come from
nature originally, but some of them in a
pretty roundabout form as vou would
uppreciate if you could see the prepara
tion oi some ot the beauty stuffs on the
market.
-One of the best is olive oil. just the
rich, golden oil that drips from the olives
grown on the sunny hillsides of Italy.
As an internal tonic there is nothing io
excell it. It feeds the body, rights the
digestion and makes the skin a rich,
clear color.
Externally it goes into the pores of the
skin, feeding them, cleansing them of dirt
and grit, nourishing them. The best way
ia to take olive oil both ways, as a food
and tonic and as a beauty treatment.
You should eat plenty of salads, nride
with a rich dressing or mayonnaise of
olive oil. you should take a tablespoonful
of it before meals, drinking a bit of clar
et or grapejuice if the oil is distasteful
Vou can rub it over vour whole bdv.
William Merrick, who was called to
the city by the death of his father two
weeks ago, left to-day for bis home in
Chicago.
Miss Carrie Williams of Rutland ar
rived in the city this morning to he the
guest of Miss Laura Burba nk of Elm
street for several days.
Frank II. Corry, a student at Yale
colegs and an enlisted member of the
Yale battery, Connecticut National
Guard, arrived in the city last evening to
visit his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Frank M.
Corry, until Monday. He obtained a
three days' furlough. The members of
the battery have taken the federal oath.
but will probably not be ordered to the
border until they have been trained bv
regular army officers.
Cases entered to-day in county court
Williams vs. Williams, divorce petition
William White, for the petitioner; Ella
J. Emery vs. Oscar W. Emery, S. H.Jack
son tor the petitioner; Waterbury Sav
ings Bank & Trust company vs. B. O.
Woodard et al., chancery, C. B. Adams
for the orator.
D. T. Wilton of East State street, who
did much to aid in recruiting members
for Company H when the call was first
received to go to the state camp and
also aided in giving them a hearty send-
off, has received the following card: "On
Board Train, Mansfield, O., June 29. All
the boys are feeling fine and all enjoying
the trip. All want to thank you for
your kindness in sending cards and
stamps. Best regards, all the bovg of
Company H."
Charles Robie and family left this
forenoon for Danvers, Mass., to spend
ten days at tne seashore. .Mr. Konie is
taking a two weeks' vacation from his
duties in the office of the Xational Life
Insurance company.
Mr. and Mrs. A. St. Onge and two
children of Barre street left this morn
ing for Manchester, X. H., for a week's
visit with relatives.
H. J. Volholm plans to start next week
to remodel the block owned by him on
Main street and recently occupied by the
F. H. Hall company. It is expected" that
two months will be necessary to make
the repairs so that Mx. Volholm may
move his furniture and undertaking busi
ness to the new location.
BARTON CHILD
WAS KILLED IN
AUTO OVERTURN
Son of Dr. and Mrs. Frank R. Hastings
Was Riding with His Father When
Steering Gear Broke and caused
Machine to Run Off Road.
Barton, July 1. Francis Hastings, the
wo and a naif vear oia son oi nr. ana
Mrs. Frank R. Hastings, was crushed be
neath the overturned automobile of his
father one mile from the village at 4
'clock yesterday afternoon and died an
our later. The accident occurred near
rank Ryder's place on the Xay pond
ad as the doctor was on his way to
isit a patient. The steering gear broke,
and the car dashed across the road and
into a ditch.
of Vermont School Affairs.
The farewell dinner given to Mason S.
Stone, for over ten years the head of
Vermont's educational department, at
Miller's inn, Montpelier, last evening by
State House associates, was attended by
Gov. G. W. Gates, Secretary of State Guy
W. Bailey. Auditor Horace Graham,
Treasurer W. F. Scott, Sergeant-at-Arms
Frank T. Parsons and others at the state
building who have been working with
Mr. Stone for the past few years. During
the dinner music was furnished by a
victrola and afterward brief remarks
were made by several of the state offi
cers expressing their appreciation of Mr.
Stones labors in behalf of the states
educational advancement and making
known their sorrow over his leave tak
ing.
Mr. and Mrs. Stone left this noon for
the Canadian Rockies, Alaska, the Pacific
eoat and the Hawaiian islands, and plan
to be absent until next April.
23,000 TROOPS
ARE ON F t) AD
TO JiEXICOi
WAR LAST RESORT,
DECLARES WILSON
United States Will Not Declare It Until
Other Alternatives Have Been
Exhausted in Disagreement
with Mexico.
Xew York, July 1. President Wilson
made it plain in his speech at the Xew
York Press club banquet last night that
he will not countenance a war with Mex
ico until there is no other alternative for
settling the border troubles.
Again he declared that he was ready
to sacrifice his own political fortunes in
order to carry out his convictions as to
what would be the just course to pursue
in the situation. I
The president's audience, composed of
newspapermen, state and municipal po
litical leaders and others prominent in
public life, signified their endorsement of
his position by repeated outbursts of
applause. When he asked if the glory
of America would be enhanced by a war
of conquest in Mexico, shouts of "Xo!"
came from all parts of the banquet hall.
A similar response was made to his query
whether it is America's duty to "carry
self-defense to the point of dictation into
the affairs of another people."
While 50,000 More Are in the!
Mobilization Camps in the!
Department of the East'
According to the Official"
Reports They Will Start;
in Two Weeks i
RIGID CENSORSHIP
ON TROOP MOVEMENT'
EQUIPMENT RETURNED.
Was Seized from American Troops at
Carriial.
Military Training Camp ai
Fort Oglethorpe, Ga., Dis
continued, and All Candi
dates Will Be Admitted to
the Plattsburg Camp Ai
Great Crowd Is Expected1
There
LEARNING TO DRIVE CAR.
Margaret Jones, Vassar College Student,
Was Killed.
Brownsville Junction, ' Me., July 1.-
Miss Margaret Jones of this village, a
NEW YORK SUN SOLD.
Frank A. Munsey the Purchaser He
Will Reduce Price to One Cent.
New York, July 1. The Xew York
Sun has been purchased by Frank A.
Munsey who stated to-day:
'iho tremendous advantage of the
Sun can be appreciated only by news
papermen. J urough it the Sun secures
a morning membership of the Associat
ed Press and there is no other possible
Vassar college student, was killed ves- way to secure such a membership ex
terdav while learning to drive an auto- cept through the purchase ot a newspa-
niobile. She lottt control of the car and it per owning one.
turned over, crushing her beneath it.
The price of the Sun will be reduced
to one cent.
SUCCEEDS HIS FATHER.
George N. Harman to Become Rutland
County Clerk August 1.
Rutland, Jul v 1. George X. Harman
L. v. M., 1!13, has been appointed coun
ty clerk of Rutland count v to succeed
his father, Henry A. Harman, resigned.
Resignation and appointment will take
effect August 1. The appointment wai
made bv Superior Judge Frank L. Fish
acting with Assistant Judges Horton and
Hitchcock. City Judge F. G. Swinnerton
was the only other aspirant for the office
and he hag not been working actively.
Mr. Harman secured the endorsement of
a majority of the members of the county
bar association.
The retiring official is known through
out Vermont for his work while clerk of
TALK OF THE TOWN
George Dodge of Waits River was in
the city yesterday as a business visitor,
returning to his home last evening.
fohn Comolli and sons left the city
this morning by automobile for Redstone,
N. H., where they are to pass a week
with relatives.
Miss Harriet Houston has completed her
duties at the Consolidated Lighting Co.,
after being employed there for the past
three years. Miss Houston left on the
noon train for Boston, where she will
visit with friends for about 10 davs be
fore returning to Barre. Miss Houston's
place will be filled by Miss Mamie Xel-
gon, who has been employed at the Mont
pelier office for the past few years.
v r ii v,... .i, t, ; Co..
the county. The office is widely known . ., . .i ,
.. , -. . , , J- for the past three months making a map
of the city for the Sanborn Map Co.,
for its elaborate riling end indexing svs
tent and a valuable system for recording
judgments.
Mr. Harman was the first, clerk m
Vermont to use the typewriter for keep
ing records. During the last few vears
Mr. Harman has written two books on
law. "Vermont Justice and Public Offi
cers, and 1 he Manual of ermont Gourt
Procedure. George Harman left col
lege in 1911 to take up the work of hi
father s office. He was appointed a dep
uty clerk in I'll! and has been in com
plete charge of the office since January,
when his father was injured by falling
from the court house steps. He will
take the bar examinations in the fall.
NOT GUILTY INSANE.
Minnie Boulia Was Charged with Arson
in Bridport.
Middlebur. July I. Minnie Boulia,
aged 18, charged with arson, was yestet-
lay found not guilty in Addison county
court because of - insanity. She was
haige with having set fire to a barn
owned by Michael St. George in Bridport
last February, causing a loss of $700.
AVIATION MEET TRANSFERRED.
A Newspaper Poem that Has Been
Quoted Ten Thousand Times.
In the June American Magazine is an
account of Arthur Chapman, a Denver
newspaper man, whose poem, entitled
"Out Where the West Begins," appeared
in the Denver Tribune in 1910.
"Chapman has been reminded of his
poem ten thousand times since. For the
verses were just starting on the grand
tour that has made them the most pop
ular bit of fugitive verse since Riley was
in his prime. The Xew York Sun. "which
has always had an eye alert to the
merits of Chapman's column, ran next
week 'Out Where the West Begins.' Since
then almost every paper of consequence
in the country has reprinted the famous
little poem.
"The verses have crossed the Pacific
to Austrian and Hongkong, and the At
lantic to hngiand. All over the West Incident of the Aero t l:b of A merit a,
you may find the poem pinned on walls thf, ji Henry W'oodhouse of the Aero
am pa-ted in scrap-books. It hangs in i ik .. ln,en'.- and other men nrnnii-
completed his work here last evening, re
turning to his home in Middlebury this
morningg accompanied by Mrs. F. M.
Kempton and her daughter of South
Main strept, who will visit her siBter,
Mrs. F. J. Donohue, for an indefinite
time.
Mr. and Mrs. Weston A. Fattee of
Montpelier have issued invitations to the
marriage of their daughter. Miss Beraiee
Harrie Roberts, to James M. Duncan of
Barre. The wedding is to take place at
the home of the bride s parents, 2S East
Mate street, Montpelier, at 8 oclock on
the evening of July IS. Miss Roberts is
attached to the home office of the er
mont Mutual Insurance Co. in Montpelier
and Mr. Duncan is the local represent
tive of Mctcalf 1 Co., granite whole
salers.
Visitors crowded the Church street
school building yesterday, the closign day
of the first of a series of flower shows to
be conducted under the auspices of the
civic department of the Barre Woman's
lub. All of the various specimens were
well preserved for the second day's ex
hibit and those who postponed their vis
it to the school until the second day
were able to look at the prize "winning
flowers. Unless a change is made in the
schedule, the next exhibit will be a rose
El Taso, July 1. Twenty-two horses,
twenty-one saddles and a quantity of
rifles, pistols, ammunition and clothing
aptured at Carrizal yesterday was
turned over at the international bridge
her to American military authorities.
Military heaquarters on the American
side were still investigating a complaint
made by General Francisco Gonzales,
commander of the Juarez garrison, that
American troops near Ysleta, Texas,
I hursday night fired across the line, kill
ing Juan Moreno, a Mexican customs
guard. Xothing was found to substanti
ate the complaint, it was said.
MANY FRIENDS PRESENT.
the office of the secretary of I lie inte
rior at Washington. It has been quoted
be anspmic. Many under nourished b;t- several times on the floor of the House
bies are mved from illness and possible of Representatives and may be d'ig out
death by being rubbed each day with 'of the tiles of the Congressional Record,
olive oil. It is a pity more mothers of i At least two governors Arthur t apper
delicate babies do not know this. The oil of Kansas and John R. Kendrick of Wy
is a wonderful food. joming have used "Out W here the West
Best of all. it is so deb.-ate in itself Begins' as campaign material. High
that it will not upset even the mt school hoys declaim it when they aie
delicate digestion. If you do not like graduated', and elocutionists fling "it at
the actual oily taste, the grape juice or the head of their audience. F.nternris.
1 - - T
cihowv An exhibition of sweet peas,
Be Held at State Camp Ground Riamou ana pniox is to lane piace Aug.
i. nmi i.t.
The llth and last of the licenses grant
ed by the commissioners in April became
operative this forenoon when John .1.
Cayhue opened a first-class establish
ment at Xorth Main street, in the
building recently purchased of the Gran
ite Savings bank by George M. Marrion.
I'nder the direction of Contractor C. M.
Foley, the entire first floor of the struc
ture has been attractively transformed
by carpenters. Mr. Cayhue has been de
layed in opening by the failure of his
fixtures to arrive.
Outgoing trains to-day were psssen
gerrd by many people leaving the city to
pass the holiday recess out of town.
Among those who left were: Mrs. Alex
ander Rut. to Concord. X. H.: George
Anderson, to Rutland; Burt Saier. to
Plattsburg. X. Y.; John Gibh and John
Goals, to their summer camp in Marsh
field; Mr. and Mrs. Adam Sing'fer. to
Worc-ter. Mass.; Mr. and Mrs. John C.
Will
Instead of Northfield.
Burlington, July 1. The Vermont avi
ation meet which was scheduled to be
held at Xorthtield on July . but as
given tin because of the mobilization of
the Vermont National Guard and tho
consequent abandonment of the plans for
a summer military camp at Norwich unt
ersitv, will be held at the headquarters
of the First Vermont cavalry on the
state camp grounds near Fort Kthan Al
len at 1 o'clock. July i. At this meet,
whi.Oi will 1 attended by Rear Admiral
E. Terry, L". S. N.. Gen. Allen R. llawlcv.
nent in aviation circle, it is proposed to
organize the Aero tbib of Vermont.
FAYSTON.
At Funeral of Mrs. William Curtis, Held
in Washington.
The funeral of Mrs. William Curtis
was held at her late home in Washing
ton Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev.
A. M. Smith of Williamstown officiatv
ing, aseisted by Rev. Weller of Washing
ton. There was a large attendance of
friends and relatives. The bearers were
Israel Wood, Charles Stanley, Myron
Calef and Austin Patterson.. Burial was
in the village cemetery.
The following flowers were contribut
ed: Roses and carnations, family; roses
and carnations. Miss Marion White; car
nations, Mrs. Rebecca Wallin. Mrs. Fred
Johnson, John Wallin, Mrs. Annie
Thompson, Mrs. L. C. Cook, Miss Olive
Calef, Mrs. Gallant, Mrs. Israel Wood,
Mrs. Austin Patterson, Mrs. Walter
Wood, Mrs. M. K. Curtis; syringas, Mrs.
Mary Paine, Miss Launa Xye; liliesMrs.
Mary Recor; pansies, Mr. and Mrs. P. C.
Wesson; forget-me-nots, Mr. and Mrs.
Mvron Calef; pink and white roses, Ira
Calef and Miss F.milys forget-me-note,
Mr. and Mrs. Forrest Cutler; rose peo
nies, Mrs. fred Doe.
Those from out of town who attended
the funeral were G. B. Carpenter and
family of Randolph; Julius Bowen and
Mrs. Walter Carpenter of Tunbridge;
Clinton Bowen and family of Chelsea;
Mr. and Mrs. Harrv Bowen of Chelsea;
Mrs. Rebecca Wallin, Mrs. Fred Johnson,
Mrs. Bert Thompson snd John Wallin. all
of Laconia, X. H.; Mrs. Earl Bickford of
Randolph.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Edna Bragg vi-itH her cousin.
William C. Morrison left this morning
for Sunapee Lake, X. H., where he will
spend the summer.
W illiam A. Xelson of Elm street has
returned to the city after spending a few
days in Boston on business.
Miss Rose Malnati of Xew York is
visiting at the home of Miss Lena Cas
selina of Maple avenue for a few days.
George Adie. son of Mrs. James Adie of
Franklin street, who recently completed
his second year at the University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., is employed
n a real estate agency at Detroit for the
slimmer.
George Townsend of Hardwick arrived i
in the city last evening from Morrisville
to remain for a few days at the home of
his father-in-law, John W. Averill of
Beckley hill.
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Rizzi and chil
dren left the city to-day on a motor trip
to Milford. Mass. Before returning
home, they will visit in Westerly. It. I.
Rav Whitcomb of South Royalfon ar
rived in the citv yesterday and will visit
with Jimes M. Gow of Liberty street for
a few dava
Xew York, July I. The surrender of
the 10th cavalry troopers taken by Car-i
ranza soldiers in the Carrizal encounter
will not interrupt the movement of Xal
tional Guard troops to the border, Major i
General Leonard Wood, commanding tha
department of the East, was informed
yesterday by the war department.
General Wood received the order over",
the long distance, telephone. He was in
structed to continue the dispatching ot
troops according to the order issued Juno,
23, which states that units must be send
to the border as quiekly as they are pre
pared. General Wood also was ordered to in
stitute a rigid censorship concerning fu
ture movements of all troops within hi
jurisdiction. He was particularly in
structed to prohibit the publication of
the ultimate destination of the soldiers.
It was announced at the divisional
headquarters last night, however, that
the number of troops now on trsins rac
ing to the border has increased to 23,000.
The number was largely increased by th.
reported departure of a complete brigadsi
of infantry and other unite from Penn-;
sylvania.
According to the official reports therei
are more than 50,000 troops in mobiliza
tion camps in the department of ths
East. Of this number approximately 33.-
000 have been mustered into the service
of the United States and are awaiting;
marching orders. J he remainder will not
be able to leave for perhaps two weeks
because of lack of training and equip
rnent. Approximately 10 brigades of infantry
and their complementary units are yet
to receive the approval of the United!
States mustering officers. They includs
two Pennsylvawii brigades, two Xew
York brigade, one District of Columbia
brigade, one Maryland brigade, one Ken-;
tucky brigade, one Georgia brigade, two
Tennessee regiments, and one regiments'
each from Florida, Mississippi, Alabama,
and Xew Hampshire.
Captain Gordon Johnston, chief aids
le camp to Geneda! Wood, made publia
last night anrder discontinuing the mil
itary training camp at Fort Oglethorpe,
Ga., and announcing that all candidates
for Fort Oglethorpe will be admitted t
the Plattsburg camp.
An excerpt from the order reads:
"Small enrollment for the July campsj
at Fort Oglethorpe and the fact thatl
over 13.000 men are expected at Platts
burg have made it necessary to concent
trate all efforts on the latter."
AMERICANS ACCUSED
OF MANY CRIMES 7
BY MEXICANS
Carranza's Foreign Office Issued State
ment Also Declaring that United
States Has No Right to Keep
Troops in Mexico.
Mexico, Jul- 1. The foreign offletf
yesicraay issueu n meuitTHiiauni in ren
ply to Secretary Lansing's recent note
in which the correctness of assertions
in the communication from Washington
were repeatedly denied. The memoran
dtim declares that the United States ha
no right to maintain its armed forces odj
Mexican soil.
Emphatically reiterating the Mexican
government's position denying the rig .t
of the United States to keep armed bod-1
lies in Mexico, the memorandum denies;
" , . . , f energetically that the Mexican govern-
Mrs. Joseph Temperley. who has been . t u (ecte4 bandjts who had com.
ted Statea
produce pro.-ifj
Mrs. .josepn lempenrt f ient has protected bandits wh
visiting with her brother F. M- Kempton, 1., d ' dgtjons jn the Lni
and other relatives in the city for thel,
pat two weeks, returned to her home in Bwwtion.
Newton, Mas., yeterdy
Miss Rose Malnati and Peter Malnati.
who have been visiting with Mrs. L. Biz
zozzero of Sibley place, Montpelier, and
friends in Barre for the past few weeks,
returned to their home tn Arlington, X.
J., to day.
Fourth of July phns In Barre center
around the celebration at Granite City
park under the auspices of Mount Sinai
temple. As the regslia to be worn by
the Arab patrol at the Shriners conclave
Wyllie. to Boston: Frank Wilson, to in Biiffilo. X. Y., July II must be
the wine will overcome this and in a few
weeks you will become quite aerutomed
to it. In a little while more you will be
gin to enjoy the rich, emootb Alter of it.
Boston JournaL
of athletic events, including a baseball
game between the fats of Barre and the
Mrs. F. -f. F-Jton. in Middlesex the first port; Mrs. Norris Hamel. to Under Buffalo for inspection July 4. the patrol-
of the wrtk. Ui;I: thsrles .lohin. to Rutland: Mr. andimen will not orui at tne grounds, mow
eteral trom this town were at the Mrs. George Taylor, to Boston: Alexsn- ever, there will be a diverting program
Long pioni-.-e at Samuel f atterson s ! Irfcr McKinnon and George Thompson, to
ne-dv. ' I Montreal. P. O.: George Murray, to Bos
ing firms have got it out on their adver- : mond FIlingoo4 has returned to ton: George Robinson, to Boston: John j fat men of Montpelier, a tug of war and
tising as souvenirs. ou may pick it up his le.me in rittsticM. i Pel .Monti. S. Pellaeanta, ('. Fabricotti. I horse racfS I he ermont league se-
on postal mrds at curio stoies and find j Ihnid o-k -f Msttapan. Ms.. haS'V:. Tosi. G. Tosi and K. Masi went toUen will begin !r!ly on that day with
it on ta pillows and birch bark orna-'iome to spend the summer at Mr. T. A-Highgite Springs, where they are to re-'a gsne between the Italian A. C. and
ments." Boggs. main in camp for a fortnight. Mont-elier. . ..
Blame for the Santa Isabel fsssacre i
placed on the so-called impulsive ant
irascible disposition of Charles Waton
general manager of Uusihuirachi com
pany; and General Scott and General
Funston are a-cused of bad faith anj
lack of honor in misleading General Om
regon in an alleged evasite reply regard
ing the crossing of American troopa int'J
Mexico after the Glenn Springs raid.
Are
UTAH TROOPS AT BORDER,
the First of Norther National
Guardsmen to Reach There.
San Antonio. Tex.. July I. The first
of the Xational Guardsmen to rea-h
boarder station was one battalion of the
Utah artillery which went into ramp
Nogales yesterday afternoon. . Two reg
iments of the Illinois guardsmen wii
reach San Antonio to-day,
