THE BENNINGTON EVENING
BANNER
THIRTEENTH YEAR-NO 3825
BENNINGTON, VT, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916,
PRICE ONE CENT
Highly Developed Powers of Observation Are Not Required to Pick Another's Faults But Wisdom Is Needed To Detect, Ones Own Mistakes
THIRD llllft
COUNTY PICNIC
Pleasant Weather and large Atten
dance Made Affair a Big Success
BAPTISTS BAG THE BANNER
Plensing Feature Was Biblical Pageant
Under Direction of Mrs.
Arthur Elliott.
The third annual picnic and field
day of the Bennington County Sunday
schools was held Friday at Nichol's
Grove in Arlington. Even the weather
man who has been so persistently dis
agreeable during tiie past few weeks
was awed by the mighty preparations
carried on by the several committees
of this yearly event and allowed a bril
liant sun to do its best to tan the
happy faces ol an attendance number
ing over 2000. When the ticket man
reached his final analysis, it was dis
covered that there had been 80 more
paid admissions than last year. The
entertaining and instructive program
which had been arranged consisting of
games, athletic contests, and pageantB
was carried out smoothly in ever) de
tail and no mishap nor unpleasant oc
currence marred the day from the time
the church bells began to ring early in
the morning until the last tired pic
nicker set out wearily but happily
homeward shortly after six o'clock in
the evening. It was a wonderful day,
one which even excelled the success of
last year. No detail of. the, program
was omitted, thanks to the efficiency
and care of the various committees
and officials, to whom is due the credit
for the success of this enjoyable event.
The special train left the local sta
tion at nine o'clock in the morning af
ter being boarded by about 400 pic
nickers representing the Bennington
delegation. By the time Arlington was
reached, at ten o'clock, 200 more had
been added by stops at North Ben
nington, South Shaftsbury and Shafts
bury, each Sunday school which went
as a unit riding in a special car.
Immediately upon the arrival in Ar
lington, the schools were formed in a
line and marched to the picnic grounds
a short distance away, preceeded "by
the Bennington city band and a delega
tion from the Bennington Congrega
tional Sunday school carrying a largo
American flag. Reaching the grounds,
each school was given a place to de
posit its lunch-boxes and the events of
the much longed for day were (initially
begun.
Games for the little children and
athletic contests for the older boys and
girls were soon in progress, the latter
taking place on a well arranged ath
letic field on the picnic grounds, Ml
of the athletic contests took place be
fore lunch and excited universal Inter
est among pleasure seekers. The con
tests themselves were enthusiastic and
spirited as each Sunday school was
anxious to win the handsome champ
ionship banner Which was to be award
ed the school scoring the most points.
The contests were divided into two
classes, Junior and Senior, the first
and second places in each event being
as follows:
Junior events:
Obstacle race: Joseph Welshman,
Bennington Methodist and Alexander
Litster, Bennlngtpn Episcopal.
Running broad lump: Carl Chase.
Bennington Baptist and William
Graves, Bennington Episcopal.
100 yard dash: Carl Chase. Ben
nington, Baptist and Francis Mooney,
Arlington Methodist.
High jump: William Graves, Ben
nington Kpiscopal and Marcus Shaffle
ton. Fast Arlington Methodist.
Senior events:
100 yard dash: Marshal White.
Bennington Baptist and James Hamil
ton, Bennington Methodist.
440 yard run: James I'helps, Man
chester Congregational and William
Perkins, Manchester Congregational.
Mile nta: Edmund Howe, Benning
ton Kpiscopal and Albert Center, Ben
nington Methodist.
Running broad jump: Marshall
White. Bennington Baptist and Walton
Harwood, Kpiscopal Kpiscopal.
High jump Nelson I'ayne, North
Bennington Congregational and John
Millington, Shaftsbury Methodist.
Following are the girls' events I
Girls' relay rtice: Won by team
representing the Shaftsbury Metho
dists. The members of the team were
Carolina Hard. Marilla Howard. Hazel
Tripp and Mary Dean.
Senior Potato race: Barbara Rob
inson. Bennington Baptist and Hazel
Tripp, South Shaltsbury Methodist.
Junior potato race: Tbelma Wilcox
I'ownal Congregational and Myra El
well. Old Bennington Congregational
For the third successive year, the
Bennington Baptists proved their ath
letic ability and carried off the champ
ionelilp banner with a total of II
points. They were followed by the
Bennington Episcopalians with 19
points and the Shaftsbury Methodists
with 18 points. Each individual win
ning a first or second place in any
event is entitled to a badge which win
be mailed to him within a day or two.
An intermission was called for lunch
ubout twelve o'clock, after which a
brief concert was rendered by the Ron-
.igton city band. Shortly after one
. clock when the crowd wus gathtred
together on the Slope in order to wit
ness tlie biblical pageant, there was a
roll call pf the Sunday schools, As
each name was called, the school re
sponded With a song and cheer, after
which the secretary of the school an
nounced the number of his delegation.
The following school were represented
in organized delegations: Arlington,
Congregational and Methodist; VVes!
Arlington, Onion; Bennington, Metho
dist, Baptist, and Congregational:
North Bennington, Congregational and
Methodist, East Arlington Congrega
tional, Manchester, Baptist. Congrega
tional and Methodist; i'ownal, Congre
gational; Sandgate, Methodist; Shafts
bury Center, Baptist; North Shafts
bury, Methodist; Sunderland, Union.
The championship banner was awarded
to the Sunderland I'nion for having thu
largest percentage of its enrollment
present,
Following this roll call, the Biblical
pageant, "Thou Shalt Love Thy Neigh
bor" was given. The pageant was the
work of the combined county Sunday
schools, consisted of three scenes and
a finale was one of the' most interest
ing features of the day. The message
which is expressed in the title was a
message to Bennington county and one
which was brought, home to the specta
tors by those who took part in the
lifelike portrayal of Biblical times, in
the finale, the Spirit of Neighborliness
reviewed those who rendered individu
al service In the past and those who
represent the organized service of the
present such as the Sunday schools,
the Y. M. C. A., the boy scouts, the
camphre girls, the King's Daughters,
the Orange, the Public Welfare associ
ation and the Bennington County Im
provement association.
The pageant in which nearly 400
took part was directed by Mrs. Arthur
Elliott and to her untiring efforts the
success of the production is due.
After the pageant a volley ball con
test w as played w hich was won by the
Shaltsbury Methodists with the Ben
nington Methodists second. The base
ball game between Sunderland and Ar
lington was not finished on account
of the necessity of catching the train.
The train for the South left Arlington
at 5 o'clock and the train for the north
at 7.
At 6.16 the returning special reached
the local station with everyone on
board tired, but confident that he had
reached the end of a perfect day.
That the day was one long success
from beginning to end cannot be ques
tioned and this was made possible by
the earnest co-operation of those in
( barge of and those who attended the
picnic. The committee wishes to thank
those who assisted In any way Upon
the grounds to aid in the progress of
the events.
The people of Bennington cannot he
too loud in their thanks to the execu
tive committee, the members of which,
gave their time and efforts toward the
success of this undertaking. The fol
lowing committee had the greater part
In making the third annual count
picnic one long to be remembered:
W. W. Itartlott, chairninn ; Miss Hilda
Pratt, secretary; F. B. Pope and A. J.
Hicks, finances; A. S. Kdson. privi
leges; Rev. Peter Heller, and P. T. II.
Plerson, grounds; A. S. Darts and J.
L. Qriswold, transportation; ft, it,
Ritchie and C. R. Mann Bed events;
Miss Eunice Lyons and Miss Mathilda
Vosslcr, games; Miss Martha Pratt,
pageant; Mr3. Arthur Klllott, pageant
dlrecto.',
The success was also largely due to
the co-operation of the school of Ben
nington, North Bennington, East Ar
Hngton and South Shaftsbury. The
Bennington schools gave the Rebecca
scene. They hail less than a week
from the time the scene was given
them before the final rehearsal.
Thanks are due Mrs. George Mill".
Mrs. Harry Lighthall. and all tho.,e
who so readily responded in the work.
Mrs. Walter White and the young peo
ple .of North Bennington by means ol
much study and practice produced the
beautiful scene of the In brew Slave
Girl. The Good Samaritan scene was
given by the people of East Arlington
and South Shaftsburv. Thov had no
opportunity to rehearse together un
til the day of the pageant and unsel
fishly remained behind the scenes
while the rest of the pageant was be-
iiif given.
SAME AS 100 YEARS AGO
Pennsylvania Prophet Explains The
Weather Conditions.
Schuylkill Haven, Pa., June 29.
Gus Luckenblll, the weather phrophet
who predicted a year ago that there
would be practically no summer this
year and that the exact conditions of
lSHi would be reproduced, feels satis
fied that he is being vindicated by the
course of events.
Luckenblll says there will be another
cool spell next week and farmers will
make hay while wearing overcoats. He
advises farmers to take advantage of
every hour of sunshine while haymak
ing, as there will be only brief periods
of dear skies.
He says there will be thunderstorms
on the Fourth of Julv and that there
will be several cold waves in the
month, while the hot spells will not be
prolonged.
WEATHER FORECAST
For eastern New York and western
Vermont, fair tonight and Sunday.
DISTRICT SCHOOL
MEETING ENDED
III 14 MINUTES
Only 41 Persons in Attendance at
High School Hall
ONE VOTE ELECTED ALL OFFICERS
Tax of 95 Cents Voted Trustees Wil
Investigate Plan of Abolishing
District,
A Bennington citizen, who was old
enough at the time of the civil war
to take his place In the ranks of the
federal army and who during his life
long residence in the village has been
a constant attendant at all elections
stated that he does not reo. ember such
a small meeting as the one which took
place at the hall of the new high
school Friday evening thirty-live men
and six women. Another citizen, one
Of the district officials for many year-.'.
aid the meeting was toe shortest in
his recollection fourteen minutes.
The meeting was called to order at
the appointed hour, o'clock, and the
clerk, M. B. Morgan, read the call.
Moderator W. B. Sheldon was re-elect-
d. The printed report of the trustee.1
was accepted without being read, it
was voted to assess a tax of !5 ten's
on the dollar of the grand list, to de
liver the bills tO the collector July 15
and to collect the tux under the pro
visions of chapter HO of the statute?.
It was voted that tin- district should
elect three auditors and also that the
present officials of the district be re
elected In toto
Under article fi of the warning "to
see il the district win appoint a com
mittee of three citizens, to serve with
out pay, to investigate and report DECK
to the district on the desirability of
surrendering special charter ami mak
ing a school unit, because of the new
school" it was voted that the trustees
constitute the committee.
Il was voted that the trustees be paid
the same amount as last year for their
services. $'-,f. with $75 additional for
the secretary of the board.
The present officials of the district
are: Mtdorator. u. h. Hiieiuon; cutk.
M. B. Morgan; trustees, ward 1,
Charles T. Burt; 2, O. G. Philips; .'!.
M. Crawford: 4. 11. I). Fillmore; 5,
F. E. Howe; 6, II. 11. Webster; 7, C. S.
Perry; tieasurer. C. II. Dewey; collect
or, J. George Hudgins; auditors. R. K.
Ileal). II. Harry Sharpc; trustees F. K.
Howe and C. S. I'erry, whose terms
had expired, were re-elected together
with the other officials.
Following the meeting the trustees
met and organized with the same offi
cers as last year: President, ( . S. I'er
ry; secretary. H. H. Webster; superin
tendent, A. W. Yarney.
MANY TROJT KILLED
By Being Washed from Streams
Into
Irrigation Ditches.
Through tests cf devices to prevent
rlsh from entering irrigation ditches
are to be made by forest service offic
ers, who say that thousands of the
trout placed in western streams by the
internment are killed through being
carried into the ditches and washed
out on the fields. There are not less
than 1.200 Irrigation projects on or
near the national forests and in many
daces the loss of trout is very heavy,
file amount of water used in irriga
tion, it Is said, often determines the
advisability ol artificially stocking
the streams.
The government annually plants
large quantities of fish fry In the
streams of the national forests. Last
year over 1,100,000 were placed in Co
orado and Wyoming alone. This was
done to render the forests more attrac
tive to the public by affording good
fishing. Where much of the water is
used for irrigation, unless the ditches
are screened, the trout enter and are
washed out on to the fields. While fish
are said to make good fertilizer, offi
cials think that trout are too expensive
to be used for that purpose.
Most of the states In the West have
laws requiring that the ditches In
screened, but these laws are seldom
enforced. The tanners are said to dis
like the screens, because they collect
drift wood and trash which prevents
the free How of the water. Very often
too, it is stated, the farmers can sup
ply their families with a mess of fish
by collecting the trout which are found
in the fields.
A number of devices for screening
the ditches are in use, and while two
or three have been found to bo falrlv
effective most of them are said to Ik
unsatisfactory. It is asserted that this
sunject presents an excellent oppor
tunity for inventors, since a success
ful screen will he sure to be widelv
used. Under present conditions offici
als are slow to recommend that tin
trout be placed In streams where they
are apt to be led off into the irrigation
ditches,
WANTED Position by competent
chauffeur. Can give best of references.
Address Box 362. Bennington, Vt,
25tG
VERMONT RECRUITS WANTED
Maj. Batchelder Urges Men to Join
Cavalry Squadron.
Recruiting Camp, Colchester, June
29. Maj. Wallace Batchelder of the
1st squadron, 1st Vermont cavalry, has
sent out an appeal for recruits and
l ays thatthe regiment should be filled
within five days. He savs that If a
regiment of cavalry is organized its
colonel will be Maj. Frank Thompkins
or the loth U. s. cavalry, who handled
the light at Parral, Mexico, in March
where ho received a slight chest
wound.
It is expected that the lieutenant
colonel will be ('apt. Fred Austin, 2d
field artillery, U. S. A., now In Manila,
who has had years of service in for
eign lands and on the Mexican border.
One of the majors will probably be
('apt. George M. Russell, 15th U. S.
cavalry, one the instructors at West
Point.
Maj. Batchelder announces that no
drinking men will be accepted and
that the organization will be a crack
regiment. There are 110 Norwich uni
versity men now In camp as the nu
cleus of the regiment.
In repy to the telegram of her son,
Maj. Batchelder, notifying her that she
has been elected "Mother of the 1st
Vermont cavalry," Mrs. L. Emma
Batchelder wires from Springfield:
"I heartily approve the plans and ap
preciate the honor. Need light on
organization and membership. Write
me please, Mothei."
CANADA'S NEW GOV.-GEN.
Not Particularly Prominent in Political
Circles In London.
The governor-general of Canada to
succeed the Duke of Connaught is of
ficially announced from London -Victor
Christian William Cavendish, ninth
duke of Devonshire, The new govern
general has not been particularly prom
Inent in political circles in England, al
though he was Liberal Unionist M. P.,
for Derbyshire from 1891 to IS'.i. e
has also occupied the offices of treas
urer lo His Majesty's Kd ward VII
household, financial secretary to the
treasury and lord lieutenant of Derby
shire. He succeeded to the dukedom
in 1912. He was born May 31, 1808.
and in 1892 married Lady Evelyn Fitz
maurice, daughter of Lord Iands
downe. The duke was educated at
Eaton and Cambridge. He owns 18t.
000 acres and six great residences, the
most celebrate' of which are Chots
worth. Devonshire house. London, and
the historic Hardwlck hall. The ap
pointment is one due to social position
md was probably secured for him by-
Lord Landsdowne. It is merely an or
namental and social affair in Canada
mil the new governor-general is bound
to be popular at Rldeau hall. The
Duke of Connaught goes as viceroy to
Ireland. Here he will have a more Im
portant and more necessary field for
his tact and geniality than in Canada
and his Irish title will not work
against him. If it is necessary to still
continue in Ireland the archaic office
Cf a direct repiescntative of the sov
ereign, (lie Duke of Connaught will do
as well as any and better than most.
Perhaps in the end he will so smooth
his genial, turbulent subjects as to be
come nuke I at to them, if so he will
have justified bis salary and his abili-
BIG ANNUAL CLEARANCE
Joe Levin is Disposing of Big Stock of
Summer Goods.
The big annual summer clearance
sale is on at the store of Joe Levin,
corner of North and River streets. The
proporietor put in an unusually large
stock before prices began to advance
md is therefore in a position to give
his customers the advantage of his
foresight. He is quoting exceptionally
low prices on the best grades of sum
mer goods. The Levin store is the
place to buy your outfits for the '
Fourth.
Rare Violins.
Tlie rarest violins in tiie world are
those which were made by Ouarnerius
del GeSU, only about forty of them be
ing known to exist ne of these In
struments was purchased by Ysaye for
$80,000. Two famous Stradivari Un in
struments which were used by Bora
sate during iiis great concert tours
were sold. One of these, the Boissler,
is iii a museum al Madrid. It Is valued
at 150,000. The other is In a museum
in Paris. There are only twenty-nine
Stradivarius 'cellos in the world. Of
the 800 Stradivarius violins that were
made more than 200 have been bought
and sold by one dealer. Argonaut.
Imitation Gold.
By combining ninety four parts of
copper with six putts of antimony and
adding a small quantity of nrijinoliiiii
carbonate to increase (lVe weight, a
substitute for gold is produced. This
alloy, it is said, can I drawn, worked
and soldered much the sumo IIS gold,
and tt also takes and retains a gold
polish. It can be made for nlxiut 25
cents a pound when Its constituents
can be bought at normal prices.
Houston Tost.
Orchid,
Many plan's have the power to shift
their quarters. The orchid can move
one Step every year. and. although it
t ikes a long time to cross the mead
ow. If the orchid goes on long enough
It would move one step forward to
ward finishing that long walk every
year.
I
BRITISH BEGIN B
E
London Says Trenches on 16-Mile
Front Have Been Taken
FRENCH ALSO PUSH FORWARD
Reverses for Teutons Reported in
Galicia, in Russia and on the
Italian Front.
London, July 1. The big offensive
by the British and French troops on
the western front forecasted a number
of days ago began at 7.30 this morn
ing and in two hours the llrittsh had
captured German trenches along a
line of 1(1 miles north ol the Sommc.
On the Hritlsh right wing the French
also advanced and drove the Germans
from first line trenches. The Irltlsh
war office announced that Germans suf
fered heavily in the attack while the
casualties in the ranks of the allies
were correspondingly small.
The British have captured Serre and
Montaban, the war office announced
this afternoon.
London, June 30. Successes for the
entente allies on the three most Im
portant Kuropean fronts in France,
in the Italian theater and in Fast
GaUda are chrgnicaled in the latest
official communications. The raids
against the Germans in France, the
French having captured the Thiau
mont work northeast of Verdun and
the British having kept up their bom
bardments of German trenches and
their Incursions into German positions
by raiding parties. The Rur'sans
have taken Kolomea. an important
railway junction leading to Lemberg In
Galicia, and the Italians continue to
advance against the Austrians in the
Trentlno region.
The struggle for the possession of
the Thiajinont work taken by the
German crown prince's forces from
the French a week ago was most se
vere, the position changing hands
several times in the incessant lighting.
Violent bombardments have marked
the lighting on the remainder of the
Iront around Verdun particularly on
the section of Hill 304.
In addition to the capture of Kolo
mea the Russians also have taken the
town of Obertyn, northeast of Kolo
mea, and several other villages north
and south of that point.
On the front in Russia from the Gal
ician border to the region of Riga
there have been battles at various
points, hut with no decisive results.
The Italians have taken Griso and
several mountain positions southeast
of Trent. Their advance against the
Austrians also has resulted in the
capture of nearly 1000 prisoners as
well as stores of arms and munitions
Vienna claims only the repulse of at
tacks in this section.
AUTO "DEADLY WEAPON"
Judge Says It is Used for Offensive
and Defensive Operations
Portland, Ore.. June 28 That S
motor car under certain conditions Is
a dangerous weapon w as held by Judge,
Robert Morrow In the Circuit court.
The case was that of C. A. Warriner.
accused of assault with a dangerous
weapon in having with his motor car
ridden down a motorcycle on the Co
lumbia highway which carried II. H.
Beckman and his wife. Mrs. Heck
man was badly injured.
Judge Morrow fortified his decis
ion with citations from American pre
cedents and observations on European
battlefields, where, he said, tlie motor
car was employed as a weapon of of
fence and defence.
PROHIBITION MOVE BEATEN
Effort to Bar Liquor "Ads" From Mails
to Dry States Fails.
Washington. June Prohibitionist
Senators lost a hard fight this after
noon In trying to amend the post office
appropriation bill to exclude from the
mails liquor advertising destined to
States having laws against such adver
tising, Senator Jones of Washington sought
to suspend the rules to clear the way
for the amendment. His motion re-
elved 3(1 ayes and 28 nays, but Vice
nresident Marshal ruled it required a
iwotliirds vote. Senator Jones made
an appeal trom the chair's ruling, but
was defeated 42 to 25.
The bill cairying approximately
1882,000.00(1 was finally passed.
Feminine Architecture.
"My wife has planned a geni of a
place."
"What's her idea?''
"An eight room house with 132 clos
ets." Louisville Courier-Journal.
WANTED A caiiahle woman visit
ing In Vermont, desiring to remain
through the summer, wishes position
as housekeeper for elderly people or
companion for semi-invalid. Address
llox 216. Bennington, Vt. 25tG
OFFENSIVE
ARE
(HIS MORNING
ABOLISH GRADE QttOMjrW&i'
v
Pi S. Commission Orders"', Overpass
North of Brandei4S,tation.
Brattloboro, Junc'.'SSfJ'lie Public
Service Commission Iff Triad e an order
tor the elimination, of, J,$d grade era
ings on the RutLuuT.nriJroad about a
inile and a third norm of, tlie station
at Brandon, The cdmjtfflisilnn dil
that an overpass be btitlf JKuh a road
way 20 feet wide, the wcfrTt Tolc tl''h
yt-u i.DISSJ (::k,;;fl1?vesof Americans AfainQues-
. . . ... ... 1 . .ft i r . m r
bridge, wnicaever may De nu n. snati
have r clearance, ol 22 le.ot above tile
rails. The rairoad will beur 05 per
cent of the cost and the state 25 per
cent. The town of Brandon will pay
10 per cent.
Katherine Hubbell Poole.
"Sunset an evening star,"
"And one clear call for me;"
"And may there be no moaning of the
bar,"
When I put out to sea."
For 110 years the Poole homestead
In Old Bennington lias been occupied
by successive generations of the same
family, iluilt in 18t(t! by Jacob Poole,
with hi3 own hands, who came from
South Abbington, now Whitman, Mass.,
bringing witli him his family consist
ing of his wite and Ive children, four
daughters and one son, the later being
Caleb Strong Poole, a highly respected
citizen of Bennington, who in the mid
dle of the last century, was actively
engaged in his trade, that of harness
making. Mr. Poole's grandfather was
Captain Jacob Poole, who participated
in what was known as tho Boston Tea
Party and was prominent at the Battle
of bunker Hill. Caleb S. Poole mar
ried Jane T. Hush of Reniselaervllle,
N. x to tlicni was born Katherine
Hubbel Poole and Harriett Conklin
I'oole, the later married tlie late John
H. Dalian and died in 1S88. Miss
Katharine Poole, whose death occured , contents of the Carranza document
June 26th, had lived in the house men-i since it maintains that th United
tioned all of her life. Her fathi r, her ; states has sent to the constitutional
sister and herself were for many years government not only one but many dis
members of the famous First Church courteous and even over-bearing notes,
choir, the father having a bass voice of J Emphatically reiterating the Mexi
great power, Per sister possessed a;i J can government's position denying the
alto voice of rare sweetness. Tor right of the United States to keep arm
thirty years the subject of this sketch ed bodies In Mexico, the memorandum
arranged the (lowers for the church denies energetically that the Mexican
Sunday service, often going down as j government has protected bandits who
earl; as 5 o'clock in the morning dur- had committed depredations in the
tiff-the summer time. Miss Poo!.' was United States and defies Washington
very fond of flowers and all she plant- j to produce proof of the assertion,
ed grew as if by magic. Her garden Blame for the Sam a Ysabel massacre
was always a aetfchfta "th-V visitor or it. j,!acd on tho Boca.lei impulsive and
passerby. In 1910 Miss Poole met irascible disposition of Charles Wat
with an accident from which she never j son. gi ni ral manager of Cusihuirlachi
fully recovered. For two years she company, and Gea. Scott and Gen.
was tenderly cared for by Mr. and Mr.-:. Funston are accused of bad faith and
J. A. Barber but for the past lour years lack of honor in misleading Gen. Obre
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Haff have occupied ; gon in an alleged evasive reply regard-
the home and the same loving care was
continued by Mrs. Haff up to the time
that the tired soul returned to God
who gave it. Miss Poole was Si Ways
devoted to her nephew, now Prof. R. S.
Lallan, with clear vision she foresavi
what a musiral education might accom
plish for him, she denied herself many
comforts that he might have the best
instructions to be found abroad. For
many years young Dalian rtudied un
der the best teachers in Leipsic, Ger
many, upon his return to this country
his aunt's heart was gladdened to know
that he had been offered the position of
otganist In the Pilgrim chnrcfa of
Cleveland. Ohio. In return for all the
kindness shown him by his aunt. Prof,
Italian repaid her in full measure, her
home was remodelled and all conven
iences Installed and everything that
money could do to add to her comfort ;
was done. Alter a life of over foi;r j
score years the last tenant of th old
time home now sleeps in the Village j
Cemetery, surrounded, not only by her
loved ones but the friends of her youth '
and later life who have preceeded her
to the life beyond. I
ADMIRAL PEARY AT MONTFELIER
Discoverer of North Pole Guest of
Greater Vermont Association.
Rear Admiral Robert EC. Peary, dis
coverer of the north pole, now chair
man of the aerial coast patrol commis
ficn, will speak at the annual meeting
of the Greater Vermont association to
he held at 2 o'clock on the afternoon
of Wednesday. July 12th. in the at
mory. Montpelier.
Admlrnl Pfnrv writes tlmt his snbiect
will be "Three Vital Features of Na
tional Defence" and that lie will give
special attention to the pressing avia
tion needs of the United States.
So subject can be more timely or
more interest ing 'than this. The dele
gation! front boatds of trade all over
the state are urged to start early so
that they will be present at the sft :-
noon meeting.
"TEMPLE OF DISHONESTY"
House in Which All V;c Parts Were
f tolen.
Los Angeles, Cel., June 28. Some
body is building a temple of dishone-ly
in the form of a house of which all the
component parts are stolen.
Now the thieves are stealing the
doors: The last eae of such thlcvejsy
was reported to the police recently
by Mrs. W. H. Hill of Fedora strict.
When Mrs. Hill left home the other
morning tho back door was locked
safely on its hinges. When she re
turned two hours later the door was
gone. Other house parts hae been
stolen In other neighborhoods recently.
The police are wondering what the
thieves will do when thov .-.-t around
to making a basement aud ccue ni
walk for their homes,
e r w a. r j
uHJM IIMItS
IF. ft LI
TlftriPfl IV -IfCT I. MPT
! llUllCU UJ U11ICI
AGAIN CHARGES BID FAITH
Gens. FunEton and Scott Accused of
Misleading Gen. Obregon at
Border Conference.
Mexico City, June 30. The foreign
office today issued a memorandum in
reply to Secretary Lansing's recent
note In which the correctness of as
sertions in the communication, from
Washington were repeatedly denied.
Tho memorandum declares that the
United States had no right to maintain
its armed forces on Mexican soil.
The memorandum was issued at the
same time that the foreign office auth
orized publication of Secretary Lan
sing's recent note. .
The memorandum contains 35 counts.
Although not in the form ot a direct
reply to the Washington note it is con-
' siilered equivalent to an answer to that
' document. It expresses surprise that
the Washington government should
have been pained at the tone. and the
ing the crossing of American troops In
to Mi xico after the Glenn Springs raid.
The memorandum asserts that while
:t is cue that the United States arrest
ed Gen. Huerta, the motive which
prompted this act was not a purpose of
. the constitutional government,
but because the United States feared
tl ' Gen. Huerta was plotting with
Ci rmanJ.
The note concludes by declaring that
the presence of American troops in
Mexico invites rather than prevents
bandit raids along the border.
RAISES WILD DUCKS
Wisconcin Man's Mallards Just
Like
Game Fowls.
Madison. Wis., June 29, Wild ducks
maj be domesticated and raised on the
farm as well as tame ones. The plan
has been tried by J. C. Halpln of this
cil for the past three years with suc
cess. Last fall he had a flock of nearly 200
and when the cold weather came on
i they took their regular "spin" in the
skies and then returned to the yards
and the wild .duck sells for more than
' the tame variety because of .ire flavor
j oi the meat.
T te first birds were kept in captivity I
i ! v clipping the wings, but the young
j ducks an as easily handled as domes
i tic ones.
j These domesticated mallards retain
I many of the instincts peculiar to wild
i nature. Let one mallard start linip
' in., a d in le-s than 10 minutes unless
; something is done to attract attention
ijority will be limping,
Thesi eat much less than tLe tamo
one."
VERMONT SUNDAY
Order cf Worship Will be Used
at
Eanle Pass Tomorrow.
The Greater Vermont association
is sending 'oo copies of the order of
worship published by the association
for use on Vermont Sunday to Chap
lain John M. Thomas of the First Ver
mont, who will use them in the regi
i lental religious service on July 2nd. ;
at Eagle I'ass, Texas, cn the Mexican
horde f.
It is especially fitting that this ser
vice should be used by President
Thomas with tho regiment, for it was
he. who at. the request of the Greater
Vermont association, arranged the Or
der i f Service ami wrote the "Prayer
for Vermont Sunday.''
FOR SA1 E Nice French Cob road
horse, fearless, safe for ladies, 1 line
work horse. 1 fine carriage, limonsino
body, nearly new, carry six people; I
light carriage, 1 express w agon, 1 road
cart. 2 refrigerator meat carts, 1 ex
press harness, 1 buggy harness, 2 set
light driving liarness. 1 pair Scotch
collors most new. All sold very cheap.
I.. M. Slocum, 710 Main St. Bonning
ton, Vt. Phone 371-M.
m
ilffili
r
