Territorial Lib
rary
TWENTY-FOURTH YEAR.
NOGAL.ES, SANTA CRUZ COUNTY, ARIZONA, JULY 1, 191G.
NO. 27.
Is order
mi
There Is Only One Talking Machine
THE VICTOR
IT SELL.S THE BEST
IT SOUNDS THE BEST
IT IS THE BEST
There is only one So
nera, News Co., many
stores, but all under the
same head. The Sonora
News Co., in Nogales,
sells Victor Talking Ma
chines Exclusively, and
quite naturally we are in
a position, to seive you to
the best advantage.
"You will like our way
of doing business."
NOG ALES,
zntie: vv i
ARIZONA
CO.
OTHER STORES: City of Mexico, Rincon, Antonio,
San Luis Potosi, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Parral, Cordoba,
Guaymas, Puebla, Torreon, Laredo, Juarez.
The Place to Buy Talking Machines and Records
ADOLFO BLEY, MAX MULLER, L. BRAVER,
President Vice-President Secretary.
SOMA BANK ! TRUST CO.
Nogales, Arizona
CAPITAL $100,000.00
A General Banking Business Transacted
FOREIGN EXCHANGE j ROIIRHX AND SOLD
GOLD & SILVER BULLION I BOUGH 1 AINU SOLU
SPECIAL ATTENTION' GIVEN TO COLLECTIONS
DEPOSITS RECEIVED IN MEXICAN AND AMERICAN MONEY
C. RIVERA,
Cashier
C. MIGNARDOT,
Accountant
s. o.
SAFETY or SERVICE is the choice you must
make in the selection of some depositories, but when
you decide to do business with our Bank you have
SAFETY and SERVICE.
It is the aim of our Bank to give all its custom
ers the maximum of Safety as well as the maximum
of Service.
If such a financial institution appeals
to you, may we have your business.
Santa Cruz Valley Bank and Trust Company
MONTEZUMA HOTEL,
L. J. F. IAEGER, Prop.
The Only First-Class Hotel in Arizona
Newly Refitted and Furnished Throughout
.TES REASONS.:
DRUMMtRS' SAMPLE ROOMS
O- J. O 1VT T IE A D
CONTRACTOR AND BUILDER.
CEMENT BRICK STONE AND EVERYTHING IN BUILDING.
CONSTRUCTING AND REPAIRING
NOGALES, - - - - - ARIZONA
ARIZONA NOTES.
Items of Interest Culled From Our
Exchanges.
Matt Quenner, famous as the
inventor of the machine for
washing gold which bears his
name, has leased some placer
ground from Col. R. R. Richard
son in the Greaterville district,
and will start operations at once.
All branches of Yavapai Coun
ty's mining industry have enter
ed upon a period of prosperity
and production that has stimul
ated business as a whole and
attracted to this section men of
means who are seeking for min
ing investments.
The district forester at Albu
querque has arranged for 20,000
fry to be used by forest rangers
to restock the fishing waters of
the Southwestern Forests.
Mountain trout, rainbow trout
and black bass will comprise the
bulk of the shipments.
Work at the Sweet Rye and
Bye group of claims, near Rose
mount, in the Helvetia district,
about 20 miles from Patagonia,
in the southern part of Pima
county, is making a remarkable
showing. By sinking a few feet
on the ledge, a breast of ore has
been exposed for fully 80 feet,
and is easily traceable on the
surface for a distance of several
hundred feet.
The new amendment to the
constitution of the State of Ari
zona, if adopted by the people at
the general election next Nov.,
is about the last word in prohibi
tion laws and will undoubtedly
stop the introduction of intoxi
cating liquors into this State.
Northern A rizona is a delighful
place at this season of the year.
Prescott, Flagstaff and the vast
forest ranges, hunting and fish
ing grounds furnish such an
attraction that the people of Salt
River valley should not think of
California as a place to spend
the summer months. Why, even
at Cave Creek but thirty miles
north of Phoenix, the climate
beats Ijos Angeles a mile. Ari
zonans do not need to leave the
state either for climate or pleas
ure. The Messenger.
A recent shipment of butter
made by the Maricopa creamery
to the Chicago market brought
the very top price and has
creajed an insistent demand for
the valley product. There are
now in the neighborhood of
85,000 head of dairy cattle in the
Salt River valley and it is said
that the good work being done
b.y tiie cow testing association is
having its effect on the quality
of tt e herds and the amount of
butter produced. Dairying is
claitied to have advanced to the
lead ng position, in point of
value, in valley farming.
Governor Hunt has issued a
proclamation which clearly out
lines the position of the State of
Arizona toward all foreigners
within our borders. This pro
clamation will be printed in
Spanish and scattered through
oat the big camps where many
thousands of Mexicans are now
employed. All that is necessary
is to remain passive, obey the law
and full protection is gtraranteed.
In the event of trouble with
Mexico, says a dispatch to Ten
ney Williams & Co., local brok
ers, it is believed in Wall street
that copper prices would be sent
to higher levels, not alone on
account of the shipments of
Mexican copper being shut off,
but also because of the heavy
demand that would probably
come from the United States
government for military and
naval purposes. Citizen.
The Rupert group of claims,
consisting of five claims, a few
miles north of Patagonia, and
just below the old Mansfield
camp, were bonded this week by
Messrs. Kennedy, Hausman and
Scheeler, Chicago capitalists. A
few weeks ago the Rupert was
visited by Mr. Kennedy, con
nected with the department of
mining of the University of Wis
consin, and upon his recommen
dation the deal was made. Mr.
Kennedy is also financially in
terested in the proposition.
WILL NOT CONFISCATE MINES.
According to American mining
men who are "refugeeing" in the
city, the report that the Mexican
government is to seize and work
the various mining properties in
the state, is ridiculous and if
true would result in no hardship
to the American owners. ,
The reason is that there is no
market for ore in Mexico and
when it is shipped to this side to
be sold the owners of the mine
from which it was shipped can
attach the ore and gain posses
sion of it. This was proved by
the course of events following
the contication of the Cinco de
Mayo mine by the Mexican gov
ernment. When the ore reached
this side it was attached by the
owners and as a result the Mex
ican government ceased working
the mine. Tucson Citizen.
Paul Mclntyre has changed
the Pataeonia-Duquesne route
i by having a relay meet the stage
!at Mowry and carry the mail
j over to the San Rafael valley.
J The automobile stage now goes
! direct to Parker Canyon by way
j of Mowry, Harshaw and Du
jquesne, returning the same
route. By the change Mr. Mc
i Intyre is enabled to accommodate
passengers to the mining camps,
of which he carries a great
i many, and every week the num
1 ber is increasing. Patagonian.
CxEOR
GE A. OLNEY
FOR GOVERNOR OF ARIZONA
tlii'iu. 1 take
docti
of
HON. A. C. DAKlIR. . .. ...
President, Olney Democratic Club of Maricopa County,
Phoenix, Arizona.
My Dear Judge:
Referring to our recent conversation relative to' my candi
dacy, 1 hand you herewith the following statement of my position
on some of the leading issues of the day.
I believe the people of the state are entitled to know ex
actly what candidates for office stand for, and I think an out
spoken and frank avowal by each candidate is in accordance with
the basic principles of democracy. It is only by this means that
the utmost confidence can be established between the poople who
arc served and the public officials who may serve
pleasure, therefore, in submitting the following:
TAXATION. .
In the matter of taxation the Democratic
ecpial rights to all and special privileges to none can and
must he exemplified in the assessment of property for tax
ation, and if elected, 1 will do everything in my power
without subterfuge or evasion to make tliis principle
effective;
1 have no hobby in the way of revenue legislation.
I simply demand that all property, regardless of class or
ownership, he compelled to bear its just proportion of the
tax burdens.
I AM OPPOSED TO ANY SPECIAL LAW FOR THE
TAXATION OF MINES OR ANY OTHER CLASS OF
PROPERTY. Our laws provide that the assessment of all
property shall he based on its full cash value. T believe
that this law should be fairly and firmly enforced. My
official record shows that I have always fought for a
higher rate of valuation on the. property of the big min
ing companies and railroads, and I do not think these
companies are paving too much taxes at the present time.
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS.
I believe that every State and pnblic institution should
conducted along economic lines, and that special audits
the financial affairs of each institution should be made
frequent intervals to determine not onlv how much
be
of
at
money is heing spent, out whether or not the greatest ein
eicney is being realized on the expenditures made. 1 do
not think that any political machine should be built up by
reason of patronage within the public institutions of the
State, and if elected Governor of Arizona, appointments
will be made to State institutions which will be based upon
merit and ability.
ROADS.
It appears that the cost of construction of State roads
under the present prison policy is too expensive. Aside
from this, my opinion is that there are many citizens of the
State who could be profitably employed upon the highways
both to the advantage of the State and themselves, and who
are now displaced by prison labor.
1 believe the road system of the State should be ex
tended as rapidly as conditions will justify, and it will be
my aim if elected Governor of Arizona to encourage in
every way the construction of State highways and neigh
borhood roads, in order that the actual residents of the
State may be enabled to reach one another and transact
their business by means of good highways.
LIVE STOCK INDUSTRY.
The live stock industry is one of the most important
in the state, and the money annually realized from the sale
of live stock and its products, and circulated freely
throughout the State tends to stimulate all branches of
trade.
I believe that all laws enacted for the protection of
" : industry should be strictly enforced, and that liberal
' '-'.ties should be paid for the destruction of predatory
wild animate.
THE NATIONAL GUARD
-An ei'f it ient rtatioual guard is absolute!;. ,-HHeni ial fa,
the safety and protection of the whole people. I believe
that tiie State guard should be placed on un effective foot
ing, and to this end every encouragement should be ex
tended to our young men to enlist and cooperate in build
ing up the organization. In order to maintain an efficient
National Guard it must not be used as a political machine.
NATIONAL FOREST AND INDIAN RESERVATIONS
1 believe that as rapidly as possible the land not actu
ally needed for Indians and forest reserves in the State
should be opened to settlement, and if elected Governor of
the State, 1 will use my influence toward that end. Some
of the State '8 best land is embraced within Indian reserva
tions and is valueless to the Indians. The same can be said
of the foresf reserves. I especially advocate the passage
of H. R. No. 12426, recently introduced by Honorable Carl
Hayden in the National Congress, which will enable citizen
to acquire mineral land within Indian reservations.
T believe that proper laws should be enacted to enable
the investment of capital in water storage systems along
the hundreds of streams flowing from the mountains, and
now sinking into the desert sands.
1 especially advocate taking advantage of the provisions
of the National Carey Act, as well as the opening to set
tlement of the vast area of now barren Indian lands sit
uated near Parker on the Colorado river.
ECONOMY.
I believe that the Government of the State of Arizona
is costing too much, and that the people are paying too
much taxes. I know that while land is not producing
any more today than it was ten years ago, taxes are
several hundred per cent higher. This is discouraging,
not only to men who have to pay the taxes, but to the man
who may be invited to invest his money in the many meri
torions propositions that are offered within this State. A
low tax rate is the best advertisement that a community
can have, and if elected Governor of this State, I will en
deavor to the best of my ability to devise mays and means
to the end that the burden of taxation upon the people may
be reduced, and the State be given a business administra
tion. LABOR.
I am in favor of every man, and particularly the man
who labors with his hands, realizing the fullest extent of
the rewards whieh should be his by reason of his daily
toil.
I believe that the relation between employer and em
ploye should be placed upon a high plane ot mutual un
derstanding, and that the offices of the State might well
be employed toward assisting and encouraging the greatest
mutual interest and good feeling between these two classes
which mean so much to the State.
T trust that the above statements which I have at
tempted to make frankly and without reserve, will indicate
to the people of Arizona, my attitude upon all questions
discussed herein.
It is not possible to cover in a general statement all of
the questions that may arise during the campaign, but I
wish to say that 1 have always been a firm believer in the
rule of the majority, and if elected Governor, I shall -n.
deavor to honestly and fairly enforce tha laws as I f!:.l
them, without fear and without favor.
1 shall bvi glad to have you give the foregoing su'.-li
publicity as you desire.
Yours very truly,
GEO. A. OLNTi-T.
