..... .
PC.
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
n
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
H $ 4$ ?H 2fe ?fe Hfi 'fc ife 'K 'K. ? 1
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1916
price two cents 55AFSSEl
GREAT OFFIISIVF
BEGUN (SI
(German Front for 90 Miles Swept In Cloudburst of Millions
of Shells, and Forward Defenses Are Broken On Sixteen
Mile Front Germans Make Series of Terrific Assaults
at Verdun Capturing Part of Thiaumont Fort Italian
Advance Is Still Unchecked
By Ed L. Keen,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
London, July 1. The supreme offensive of the allies
began at 7:30 this morning, with one of the greatest Anglo-French
gains on the western front since the German
retreat from the gates of Paris.
Two hours after British troops drove forward, they
had captured sixteen miles of German forward trenches
north of the Somme, the war office announced in a brief
statement.
French troops, on the British right, struck at the same
hour.
The British war office announced that the French
made "equally satisfactory" gains, leaving to General
Joffre the honor of announcing the full extent of the
French successes. No statement had come from the
French war office early this morning but it was believed
a full report on the French gains would be made before
night.
The British attack was made on a twenty mile front
north of the Somme after one of the most terrific four
day bombardments the world has ever known. With
German advanced trenches firmly held, the British were
pressing forward to the attack at 9:30. The latest dis
patches to the war office said the battle was proceeding
with the utmost violence on both British and French
fronts.
Many prisoners have been taken, but it is impossible
at this hour to obtain any estimates on the number cap
tured or the losses. Fragmentary dispatches from the
front report allied casualties have been light.
On the remainder of tlio British front,
milling parties continue to harms the
Cermnns, penetrating enemy defenses at
many points, iuflii'ting losses ami taking
prisoners.
The war office at 2 o'clock this morn-
i,ig issued a statement of warning,
that, in the interest of public safety,
there should' be no traveling on the con
tinent, except for the most serious roas-!
oils. All persons intending to leave forj
1 10 continent were warned that theyj
would undergo tlie strictest examina-i
tion under the passport regulations and
close search of, their persons and bag
ft a go.
The combined British and Fren.'h
drive began a few hours after the tier
mans launched the must powerful on
slaughts against Verdun in many weeks.
The crown prince hurled his legions
igniust the French work east and west
if-the Mouse. The French war office
rt'inounced that on every sector thej
Cermana were repulsed with appalling
losses, except on the northeastern front,
where the French were again driven
'lit of Thiaumont works.
Tli latest information received here
,!uted that about loO.flnO German troops
were massed along the British front
fniin the Somme northward to Arras,
with SO. (100 Germans in reserve.
Moving southward from Arras, the
Toi-mans face the British in the follow
ing order:
First Bavarian reserve division.
Thirtv-eighth I.aiuls'rum brigade.
One Hundred and Eleventh division.
I'iftv-seeond division.
- -r I
"V
Tilford Moots has returned Tipton
Cut's bob sleds an' borrowed his hay
bidders. Th' more cultured th' audience
th' less yoa see o' th' fust act.
if -
1 1
ALL FRONTS
Fourteenth reserve corps.
Sixth active corps, which rests partly
north and partly south of the Somme.
Behind the German front are the fol
lowing reserve units:
Twenty-second rosiirve corps, concen
trated at Valcncinnes, the First guard
division, northeast of Caiubrai and the
Fourth guard division, southeast of
Cambrai.
There is no way of estimating the
number of British opposing the Ger
mans on this front. Travelers arriving
from 1 ranee recently have reported the
country around Amiens swarming with
several hundred thousand British
troop?.
Take German Trenches.
By Ed L. Keen.
(United Press staff correspondent.')
London, July 1. The long expected
British offensive began at :.'!0 this
morning with a tremendous smash
against the German lines en a 2(1 mile
front north of the Soiniue. This in
formation was contained in a brief spe
cial bulletin from army headquarters to
day. The British swept forward with a
rush, capturing some enemy front line
trenches. Many German prisoners were
taken. The British attacks were con
tinuing with the greatest violence nt the
hour when the dispatches were filed.
The first reports were flashed to
London shortly before noon. Newspa
per extras were grabbed eagerly in the
clubs, hotels, on the streetsevery
where. Within a few minutes the word
spread throughout London "the big
push has begun."
The public, aroused by announce
ment early today that the Kussians
have captured the important Galician
city of Kolomon. that the French have
had success in the fighting northeast
of Verdun and that the Italians are
steadily pushing northward in the Tren
tino, accepted the early bulletins as
clear indication that the long awaited
super-offensive of the nllies has begun.
A Rain of Iron.
The British thrust forward this morn
ing followed four days of the most lav
ish expenditure of shell fire the world
has ever known. The German front for
nearly (tO miles, from the Ypres to the
Somme, was bathed in a never ceasing
flame of artillery pounding with the
explosion of millions of shells.
At dawn today the British bombard
ment, which grew more intense through
out yesterday, suddenly concentrated n
terrific, fire on the German line from
the Arras south to the Somme. For an
hour and n half the brief bulletins re
ceived in London said, the German line
was under a steady rain of high ex
plosive shells thut blotted out trenches
and human life.
The big guns lifted their fire nt 7:"0.
At the some instant Tows of British
trftips sprang forward to the attack.
They were seasoned regiments who had
been awaiting eagerly their chance at
the "bouches" for many months nod
new regiments for "Kitchener's arm-
(Continued on pa. n ne.)
Exploding Shells Kill Boy and
Hinder Firemen Damage
$230,000
Seattle, Wash., July 1. Fire Chief
Stetson and Fire Marshal Bringhurst,
conducting an investigation today into
the couse of the burning of the United
States army headquarters's dock and
Oriental pier No. 11, which were de
stroyed by fire with a loss 'iggregatiug
more than $2I!0,000 and one boy's life
last night, were unable to make a
guess as to its origin.
The boy's body, torn by aa exploding
shell during tho destruction of $30,000
or $40,000 of government ammunition
and supplies, lies in the public morgue
unidentified.
I'ipemau John Wdiorr, of hose com
pany 2;, injured in collision with Chief
Stetson's automobile, survived tho
night at the city hospital and is said
to have a chance to live despite a fract
ured skull.
Exploding shells, which made fire
fighting extremely dangerous, knocked
a number of firemen down by sheer
force of impact, and showered frag
ments of steel, iron and wood over the
streets and the bay for n distance of
several blocks.
The United States army quartermas
ter's dock loss is estimated at $100,000.
The supplies and ammunition destroyed
were to have been shipped to the Philip
pines and Alaska.
Prices Sagged Some
In. Very Dull Market
New York, July . Tho New York
Evening Sun financial review today
said:
Little, naturally, was expected of to
day's short session on the stock ex
change in consequence of the prevailing
uncertainty regarding the Mexican sit
uation and the approaching holidays
and business shrunk to small propor
tions. Much satisfaction was expressed
over President Wilson' reassuring
words in favor of the avoidance of
war, except in tho case of absolute
necessity, but this was offset to a
greater or a lesser degree by the bitter
arraignment of tho government, con
tained in the memorandum issued by
the .Mexican authorities in commenting
on the latest American note.
First prices were generally lowered
and fractional declines were widely
distributed throughout the general list.
With buying incentive at low ebb, the
professional traders worked for reac
tion and influenced some rather sharp
declines in specialties before expiration
of the first hour. Standard railways,
while dull and inclined to heaviness,
offered better resistance to the forces
of contraction because of the recent
excellent earnings statement.
There was no important change in
trading conditions in the closing of
the session and although some special
ties like Industrial Alcohol and Stude
baker corporation extended their
losses, the list elsewhere showed a
slightly better tendency.
Mexican General Says He
"Does Not Understand
English"
fialveston, Texas, July 1. Mexican
soldiers fired on sailors of the United
States gunboat Siileiu at Tampico, lust
Tuesday afternoon, wounding two, ac
cording to refugees arriving here to
day on the steamer Dade.
The sailors, who were taking sound
ings from two small boats, returned
the fire. It is not known whether
there were any Mexican casualties.
The Dade left Tampico before the
incident occurred but was apprised of
it by the steamer Monterey at Vera
Cruz. The refugees said Captain
Scott, ot the I'nited Stales gunboat
Marietta sent a message to General
N'afairete allowing 21 hours for an
explanation. Nafarrette is said to
have replied that he did not under
stand English.
Passengers on the ade saiil N'afar
rette was organizing an army to cap
ture the state of Texas and that he
would be in Wasnihgton "before Wil
son woke up." They said also that
Nafarrettet notified Consul Bawson
that if any more American gunboats,
transports or merchant ships appeared
off the harbor for refugees he would
burn tho city, emptying the oil tanks
into the river.
Say German Submarine
Is In Chesapeake Bay
New York, July 1. According to the
Trans-Atlantic Trust company, unof
ftcial fiscal agent in the United States
for Aiistro-llungary, the German sub-
T
IfJ M PlfiTFORM
Stands Firmly by His Position
and Makes It Issue of
Campaign
HIS CREED ONE OF PEACE
WILL WIN OR LOSE ON IT
Not Right To Carry Self De
fense to Point of Dictating
Other Folks Affairs
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, July 1 President Wil
son has takea his Mexican policy for a
campaign issue and put it up to his
political adversaries.
This is the opinion of political aad
official Washington today, following
tho president's return from New York,
where he spoke last night.
Taking the issue which his republican
oppouents had threatened to make the
principal object of attack, the presi
dent has adopted it as his own.
The question he raised last night in
his speech before tho New York Press
club were believed directed primarily
at those contesting his re-election. The
questions were:
Would the glory of America be en
hanced by war of conquest in Mex
ico f
Would an act of violence by a pow
erful nation like this against a weak
and distracted neighbor reflect distinc
tion upon the annals of tho United
States?
Is it our duty to enrry self defense
l.n .I:.,.,: 4i. rit:-
to the point of dictation in tho affairs
of another people!
Will Stand Pat
From this and other utterances along
the same liae, the president is said by
his friends today to have indicated
clearly he will not countenance war be
tween the United Stntes and Mexico
save as na unavoidable resort in set
tling border troubles.
For the second time in as many days,
he said he would stake his personal
fortunes upon the ideal he is following
in Mexico.
For the first time the president indi
cated what may be in his mind as to
the immediate purpose of concentrat
ing such large armed forces on the
border.
"Force," he said, "can some times
hold things steady until opinion has
had time to form. No force ever
exerted except in response to that opin
ion was ever conquering and predomi
nating force."
And thus the president last night,
throwing off his customary restraint,
expounded his creed. It is one of
pence, supported, he said, by a vast ma
jority of the letters nnd messages sent
to him from men and women in all
parts of the country, urging nnd pray
ing that he avoid hostilities in Mexico.
The president intimated he would go
to the extrtme lengths of diplomatic
recourse before he will resort to the
use of arms in forcing Mexico to co
operate with this country in protecting
its own people.
Moose Compliments Wilson.
The president dwelt also on his ef
forts to serve the whole people, thou
sands of whom, he said, are appealing
to him to maintain peace as long as
possible.
"1 have constantly to remind my
self," he said, "that I am not the serv
ant of those who wish tireiihance the
value of their Mexican investments, but
!... r ..... l . ,i . . i . ,
PREIDE
PUIS
MEXICAN POLICY
turn j urn imr si-iiiiii in tne raiiK ami i.i , a . .. . .
f;,,, ,f . , '. ". . ." , proved the statement given out yester-
tile of the people ot the Inited ' , . .,
States." I l'uy by Foregn Secretary Aguilur com-
Bninbridge Colby, who placed Theo- nienting on and refuting assertions in
dore lioosevelt in nomination for the j the American note.
presidency nt the progressive conveit- The foreign office statement was pub
lion at Chicago, paid President Wilson Halted in the same editions with the
high tribute, but did not declare un-
qualificdiy that he would support him tun public for the first time. The news- to confer with Boyd when the detach
in the coming campaign, us it was re-! papers printed first n paragraph oflnicnt was sighted, how Boyd was wain
ported he would do. President Wilson 'a communicatoion nnd;ed of the Mexicans orders not to per
President Wilson arose from his seat then inserted tt paragraph of See re- niit further advances and General
and shook hands with Mr. Colby as he tary Aguilar's reply answering that par-. Gomez personally parleyed with the
iinisneii speamng. flavor John P.
Mitchel, Ituliih Pulitzer " and IrvinS.i
Cobb also spoke. The presidential
party, which included Mrs. Wilson, oc-
cupioti seats in the tiaicrnv. President
Wilson did not begin to speak until ul
most 11 o'clock.
marine long repor'red en Toute to tho'suid that they hail withheld publics -
I'nited Stales has actually arrived audition of many of these communications
is now concealed somew here iit Chesa-1 because they did not wish to stir up
penke bay. The announcement was mode hostility to the I'nited Stntes.
in an advertisement inserted in a Hun- The foreign office announced today
uariun newspaper today ofefnag to
trsnsiuit money to Hungary via the ves
sel. According to this ad the I'-boat
arrived from Hamburg at a point near
Baltimore Thursday morning.
Officials of tlm bank refused to dis
cuss the nmttiY, intimating that secrecy
as to tho undersea boat's hiding place
was necessary in order thut there should
be ui) clash with the American govern
ment over its status.
As ever, Oregon is justifiably and
inordinately proud of the O. N. Cr.
I KILLS
t
I
Greal Wall of Water In Hay
Creek Canyon Sweeps AO
Before It
Moro, Or., July 1. The bodies of
four persons, swept away by a cloud
burst which struck Hay can on nt 6
o'clock list night, was recovered to
day by rescue parties from Moro and
Wasco.
Mrs. A. Fortner and her daughter,
Mrs, L. II. Lawrence o New Meadoys,
Idaho, were in their ranch house near
Monklnnd when tho flood suddtnly
burst an them The house was lifted
from its foundation and whirled away.
Battering against logs and rocks, the
structure was demolished in the first
two miles.
Tho body of Mrs. Lawrence was
found this morning four and a half
miles down the canyon sittl that of her
mother nine miles from their home.
Hay Havener, John Hunsinan and O.
T. liurnett were caught in their tent,
where they were working on a road
east of Monklnnd.
liurnett and Hunsmnn we're drowned,
and Havener narrowly escaped. Their
tent was under a hillside, facing a
knoll to which they ran when the first
wave reached them. Upon the arrival
of the second wave, Havener and Bur
nett started across a ravine to high
ground. Burnett was lifted off his
feet and became entangled with a
woven wire fence. Havener used the
fence as a rope and pulled himself out
of The Bwirling, muddy water, hand
over haad. Hunsinan stayed on the
knoll aad was swept away. The bodies
of Burnett nnd llunsman luter were
found three miles down the canyon,
Bridges and roadway were washed
away. One bridge was lifted from its
concrete piers and carried intact for
a mile. At least two farmhouses were
demolished, and some livestock was
drowned. i
At about the same time the cloud-
1 burst struck Hay canvon, a smaller sec
... . , - ...
tion of the sntno storm broke over
Grass Valley. The damage reported
from there was slight.
Oregon Boys Given
Great Ovation
San Biego, Cab, July 1. Troop A,
Oregon cavalry, and the Second bat
talion Third Oregon infantry under
command of Lieutenant Colonel ,1. L.
May, detrained here today and
marched at once to the camp near the
exposition, where they were to be un
der canvas by nightfall. rVere are
loO enlisted men and I!) officers in
Hie command.
A great ovation was given the Ore
gonians as they marched through the
streets.
They are to bo followed after n
twelve hour interval by the Firi bat
talion, including a )'(tchine gun com
pany, supply train and headquarters
and sanitary corps.
The first section of thu. Oregon na
tional guard arrived yesterday and
procecdi'il nt once to San Yscdro.
where they went into camp on high
ground overlooking the Tijuana valley.
The cavalry troops arriving here to-
Press Approves Aguilar's
Stand -Trevino Gives Oat
His Version of Carrizal
Mexico City, July 1. The Mexico I
City newspapers today vigorously ap-
American note which was thus given to
ticular charge,
Officials said today that the tone
of Amiilar's statement was fully iusti -
fied. because of the tone of the Amer-
icnn note. They complained that The
I'nited States has sent several ex-
tremely sharp and undiplomatic mes-lehii f replied he did not enre to lose
sitEos to the Mexican izovernmeiit uud'nnv more time nnd would walk over
that imemdiately upon receipt of in -
formation that Secretary Lansing had
issued fresh warning for Americans to
leave Mexico, instructions were tele
graphed to nil civil and military auth -
orities to give guarantees of protec
tion to all Americans and other for
eigners within their jurisdiction.
The war office has received from
General Trevino a complete official re
port of thcveiirounter at Carrizal, con
firming the ntntement of the Mormon
guide, I. era Spillsbury, that the Amer
ican) were the aggressors.
EXCEPT M WEATHER
Outine of Program for CherVy
Fair and Its Many
Events
Everything is now ready for tho
great Cherry Fair to be held under the
auspices of the Commercial Club and
especially the department of conven
tion, publicity and tourist, of which
Benjamin. Brick is director. In fact,
everything is ready except the weather.
Queen Estella and her attendants
will leave the Marion hotel at the hour
of 9:15 a. m. escorted by the Chcrrians
and Cherrinn band.
The crowning will take place, on the
north side of the Courthouse nt PolO.
Governor Withycombe will place the
crown and Mayor White will deliver
the golden key.
Tho Boy Scouts under command of
Scoutmaster Fuikerson will drill in
front of the reviewing stand.
Following the coronation ceremony,
the crowd will go to Willson square to
witness the great and only baby
parade. The liae of march is around
the park, on Court, Cottage and State
streets and grouping later around the
band stand.
Then follows the Grange program at
Marion Square, with President Kerr of
the O. A. C. delivering the morning ad
dress. The armory opens at noon, showing
the cherry displays and the floral ex
hibits. Those, in tho afternoon parade will
form near Marion square, at 1:30
o'clock, the parade beginning prompt
ly at 2, the line of inarch including the
business district.
Street sports are scheduled for 3:115
and base ball at 4:15 on the League
grounds.
Hiawatha will be presented at Will
son park at 5 o'clock under the direc
tion of the North Salem Women's
club.
Water sports are scheduled for 7i!10,
The C'herrian band will play in Willson
park beginning at 8 o'clock and the
day closees with a dance at the armory,
beginning at 0 o'clock.
TWO FATAL ACCIDENTS.
Two fatal accidents have been re
ported to the state public service com
mission. Both are from Portland.
Harold Moody was eTeclroeuteil when
he backed into a live wire while work
ing on a roof at the St. Johns Ship
building company's plant. The com
mission has set aside the sum of
$7,2."".!''- to provide income for
Moody's twenty year old widow. If
she lives out her expectancy and does
not mnrrv again she will receive a
total of $l.",wil.
John W. Senman slipped while work
ing tit a chute in tj) t Portland Union
stockyards and received injuries which
terminated fatally May 22. He leaves
a wife and three children. To care for
these, $7,22H.tis has been allotted and
it is possible for them to secure a total
of $l2,liS:t.40.
dav tlid not bring mounts. The horses
are to be furnished here, according to
the officers.
This version of the Carrizal clash not
only supports the previous Mexican of
ficial iinrartive of that encounter, but
gives the new allegation that Captain
Boyd of the American detachment tie'
fiitly declared he "would march to
Villa Ahumada in theface of fire."
Il was an official report of Colonel
liivns made to (ieneral Trevino.
After recounting how ltivas went out
American commander, urging nun to
wait until word could be received
. from Juarez as to the right of the
Americans to proceed to Villa Ahumada
.the statement continues:
"To this, the overbearing American
i the Mexicans, if necessary, (ieneral
! Gomez answered that he milht march
j ahead if he thought lie was able. Then
!(icneral (loinez and we who escorted him
! retired to where our forces were. The
; American leader did likwise. going to
his forces, ntid ordering Ins horses
chained up and with his cnvnlry afoot,
advanced in open skirmich formation
upon our forces
who remained
mounted and without making a move
until the Americans niiened fire nt n
distance of SO meters."
On request of Trevino, it was an
nounced today that (Ieneral Carrnnr.a
had promoted Rivns and five other Mex
ican officers for "constancy in service,
gnllantrv in action nnd defense of the
country" in the Carrizal fiuht.
ARIZ
ARE MOVED NEARER
PERSHING'S ARMY
Believed To Be Preparation
for Attack Should War
Come i
TREVINO'S ARMY THREE
TIMES THAT OF PERSHING
Arrival of Militia Frees Reg
ulars For Service In
Mexico ;
El Paso, Texas, July 1. Cararnzista
troops in tho southern portion of Chi
huahua state are being moved nearer to
the contracted American lines, accord
ing to information received here to
day.
(ieaernl Jacob Trevino, commander ot
tae de facto government's northern
army, is closing in on General Tersh
iug's bnso near Colonia Dublan. Car
ranzista reinforcements continue to ar
rive nt Villa Ahumada,
These movements ' are believed by
military officers here to be the fore
runner of an attack on the American
expedition should relations between the
two governments reach the banking
point.
Militia Arriving
El Paso, Texas, July 1 Today a. tent
ed city "of several thousand militia
men is ttoming into existence near Fort
Bliss. Before the end of the coming
week there will bo an army of 25,000 na
tional guardsmen stretching from El
l'o to Columbus, N. M.
They will gradually assume patrol
iTsties of over 0,000 regulars, who can
be rushed into Moxico to join Heneral
Pershing's column. Local authorities b
lieveil Cnrranr.a'a statement from Mex
ico City yesterday might lead to th
punitive expedition being reinforced.
While the militia's advance on the
borber is screened by an official silence,
10,000 from Pennsylvania and Now Jer
sey are tho vanguard expected here to
day. Regulars at Fort Bliss wore hard
at work this morning, cleaning the new
camp site of inesquite nnd cactus.
"I can give no information regard
ing troop luovments," General Hell
stated. "I havo received instructions
from Washington to this effect. Hut
we expect tho advance guard of the
militiamen some time today and others
are en route." m
Ready for a Dnsli.
The regulars relieved by the arrival
of the national guard will be held in mo
mentary readiness for a dash into Mex
ico, should war eventuate.
With the (1,000 regulars from tho F.I
Paso zone, General Pershing would
have a punitive force of about 17,000
men. The latest estimate of the Amer
ican army now in Mexico is about 1,
(KMI. Even thus reinforced, Pershing
will have only about a third the num
ber the Carnrnzn government has con
centrated in a horse shoo around tho
American expedition. The. Mexicans are
believed to have laid their plans for a
quick blow by superior numbers: in case
of war.
The negro cavalrymen, cantttred at
Carrizal and released from Chihuuhna
prison were ninong the first to see the
2:i horses returned by the de facto gov
ernment yesterday on their arrivul nt
Fort liliss. With a shout of joy the Car
rizal heroes made a mad rush to see
if among those recovered were their
favorite charges. Much affection was
shown for the horses by the negro cav
alrymen, i;
The funeral of Mrs. Emma Z. Yates
who died Thursday was held this af
ternoon at, 1:10 o'clock from the par
lors of Itigdon anil Ki.hiirdson. Burial
was in the Macleny cemetery. She is
survived by her hnsbmnl, S. ,f. Yates
ami her parents, Mr. ami Mis. James
A. Pickens, living near Salem and also
two sisters, Mis. K. ('. Simmons of Ku-
gem Mis. Rosa Clark of Poitland,
and four brothers living near Salem.
The postoffice tit Toledo will soou bo
housed in it new building. The Leader
says the new postoffice fixtures "are
a credit to the community and will be
adequate for a town several times the
size of Toledo. ' '
t THE WEATHER
:cc)r:;()f:'(
Oregon: To
night and Hun
diiy unsettled,
probably show
ers; variable
winds.
THIS IS. plC
(Hie wFrHcd
