'if
iti.y, ' -ft
he
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day; unsettled to-night; prob
ably showers to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 60; lowest. 38.
Detailed weather, mull and ttarine reports on page 1 6.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 229.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, APRIL 16, 1916. copyright, 1M6, by the im I'rinMnp and Publishing Association,
78 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Stilt.
RUPTURE WITH
BERLIN IN TWO
WEEKS FEARED
Washington Expects Drank
I'nloss Germany Yields
in Sussex Case.
PKFIXITE rLEIMJK.
WILSON'S DEMAND!
Olll.V Unequivocal AsSlir -
an ees Will Be Satisfac
tory to Him.
TWO NEW VIOLATIONS
OF PKOMISE CHARGED
Note to Be Sent as Soon as
Lansing Has Approved
Text.
Washin'otoK, April 15. Piesidont
Wilson Is ready to act on the Herman
submarine Issue. The American note,
which will virtually be an ultimatum.
win ne uespatcneu just as suun ure , Df t.lc 0a force.
finishing touches are put on the docu- District Attorney HatnUl .Alexander
ment by the Secretary of State. The a'ld Chief Hyatt went to the spot where
, i.i i mil.. , it lie body was found immediately niter
Impression obtains in official quarters I tjJ (WOVery , or(,el. t0 plck lin).
that If Germany rejects the demands I clues that might exist before the body
made by the Cnlted States In this In-I was lemoved.
stance a rupture In diplomatic relations , llaf- examination of the remains dl,.
'closed what was afterward erllled by
will follow Inevitably. M, ,lut0psy. The boy's person hail been
Count von HcrnstorfT. the Get man j mutilated. The neck was broken and
Ambassador, Is standing tlrm on the j H ere were marks on the face to Indl
i i i.i i,m..ii. f'l that he had been beaten before
Issue and reflecting his Government 's ju,
contention that the proposed indictment j The spot where the corpse lay Is re
ef Germany Is Inspired by the "false mote from any of the cabins occupied
evidence" which he charges Great Hrlt- 1 "V the I'lne Bush g.u.g. The nearest
... . , . , . .place of residence Is 100 yards away, a
ain and I rame have circulated for the l)Ulldn(t occupied by the keeper of the
purpose "f bringing the United Statts s mile water work. The place is
,nto the war. There Is no indication so
far that Germany will weaken in reply
ing to the demands of this Govern
ment. Two new cases of German submarine)
attacks Jeopardising American lives
were omclally reorted to the State De
partment to-day while Secretary Lan
sing was busily at work on the note
.iboiit to be forwarded to Berlin. Both i
rises. It Is said, involve violations of
pledges mudc by Germany to the United shannon case which shocked this section
States, about fifteen ears ago and for which
one Davis was electrocuted at Dunne
Two New I Boat e lacks. 1 mora,
Consul-General Skinner, at London, I The search for Billy Clark began with
reported that Loiln A. Lathrop. Amerl- 1 renewed vigor early to-day. following the
can Consul at Cardiff, had notified him
of he rescue of John D. Harrison of
riiieagu, steward on the Margam Abbey
sunk b it Germun submarine without
arnliig on April 8, sixty-five miles
-nuth of the Lizard. Details are lack
ing, hut it Is specifically added that no
rrtlsUnce wus offered by the vessel.
The fact that the ship was sunk without
amine scorns to preclude the Idea that i
sue tried to escape.
American Consul Krost at Queenstown
snt the following cablegram, which was
received to-day at the State Depart
ment: "Aberdeen bark Inverlyon. bound from
Portland, fire., to Limerick, sunk by
uunflre April 11. 110 miles west of
..cm..i, oniiNi jnies, uiiniineu, no m-
tempt to escape, fifteen minutes allowed
io auanaon snip, une Doai. iweive men, looked m,e ,4 Tblu shirt In the undei
ncludlng two Americans, saved. Other i,rush. Closer Inspection disclosed the
boat missing. No Americans lost." oy' body lying on Its side. Two shots
Both despatches were sent to the t,iournt the searchers to the scene,
white Houie at once. State Department T,e boy wa8 ..ng partly on his side.
officials say the case of the Margam '
Abbey shows that the submarine com-1 '
man-ier disregatded entirely all pledges i . nn nnn
which Germany has made concerning1 I ID DAIrilVK IIKIiPn
narnln, nurchantmen or provided for i fllll lHIIE(l lIWlJ
.ie crews safety, count-von uernstorrr
ias persistently contended, however,
'tut liermany's pledscs do not Include
merchantmen of this type, hut are con-'
.Intd to liners. I
Teu of (eriilniis Pletlitr.
In tne case of the Inverlyon officials
J thjt Germany has violated assur
ances given to the United States in con
ation with the sinking of the Amerl-
in sa'i ng vessel William P. Krye.
These desurance. were couched In the
orilr
"The German Government quite
Urea the views of the American iov
'.nmcnt that all possible care must be
taken for the .security of the crew and
Mongers of a vessel to be sunk. Con
M'i'jently tlie fiersons found on board a
vessel may not be ordered Into her llfe
t"nu except when tiie general co'iidl
''ftns. 'hat Is to say, tho weather, the
'ndltloii of the sea and the neighbor
od of the coasts, afford absolute cer
'.nr that the boats will reach the near
en. port '
Tl.e fHct that the attack took place
I'd ni bs from shore Is In Itself re
fif J "TIs-'l-'" heie as evidence that
"e lit 'ruin aSSUranees were lint fcent In
a jf the Inveiivon.
n.emi, of the President who have
ijn more or los, )n his counsels pre
'1. tci to-day that tiiplomatlc brek
Mtteri the two Governments would
ermje n,n two ThPy wad tnul
'''!) 'ie ni.ni.V H unequivocal inonilse that
" 1 1 'f rain from toifiedolug mer
injri'nifn withuui warning would satisfy
ie Pre -lent Ttiey despair of seeing
"nil it in ike this concession on 11 basis
'..'U wun. be satisfactory to the United
itti T,e roncessiou, they said, would
uie- backed by guarantees against
iurr. 11, . ;in, tn elimination of "mlH
ew 1 'lK'r vrds, tlicy said that
winiiu nave to give more spe
tide
I'.oin.seH ihfin have 11 1 ready been
'l" 1 ,d actuall) live up to them, which
Ofrnidljt litinarenrtr. 1il faliM.,.. ..r
lentioii o lining, nnordlng to the accu
?re'l,V't,'Vl,U'nc" whlch hus rat-'lle,i ,n"
"iirliHii.
I'arnlah Ktltlence.
n,rv Lansing niltl to-day lliat the
T"I n , hee In the case of Ihe Sussex,
n' ''h.i'inel packet damaged by a tor
vio, ha been received. Tills. Is tlie
''i' wMrli came on the American
iffn '"' Mr' l'!,"Rll,K "ld the
ni,ikv.i cle frum th)! nrlcan H
'l'k aiioard tho slilp. Hwoin state-T't-nis
,. niiicera and men of Hie crew
til". "1" "-'l"ded. he said. It was In
""il'iii Hut iheiu wn sufficient sworn
It,
Cnilllnierel on Sixth Pag,
ALBANY BOY,
WEEKS, IS
Hilly Clark. Aged 8, Believed
to lie Victim of an Tit
mi nc Man.
M IIKIJ FROM FILM SHOW
! At.iiw-T, Apt il 15. nisooverj- of the
I body of Hilly Clark, the clght-ycur-old
; Albany boj who mysteriously dlsap
i pc-arcd llitcc week ago, In a swamp
j about miles west of Albany to-day
Una spurred the police to greater
activity In their attempt to solve the
mystery cloaking his disappearance and
muidci. Every available ofHeer on the
1"cal rorco ' engaged In running down
inurs inai may nave even a icmoie near-
ing on the manner of his death or ttio
j Identity of his murderer.
I "I am of the opinion that the boy was
i the victim of an Insane person," said
J Coroner Wairen Hasting after the dls-
iTlfli-v nf ilm t,,,1e '
' The police share this opinion and con
sequently hae undertaken a thoiough
search of the section where the body
v,as found. Curious enough the spot
where It lay Is neas a section neonlcu
I by squatters, known as the I'lne Hush
rung. Among them, the police say, there
nre many persons of feeble mind. Kvery
one of these squatters will be examined
before the search for the murderer is
begun In other directions. Thin de
cision by the police Is predicated upon
the belief that anionic the squatters Is
some one who can throw light upon the
crime.
Knnnil In Hrmotr Spot.
"No stone will be left unturned to lun
down and rind the person who committed
till nlvfti! deed." antri 1'htef .fumes, tlvntt
heavily overgrown with brush, near tne
line of the first railroad operated In this
State years ago. The swampy expres
sion in wnicn tne uotiy nag. oeen muuen
was made by excavations to build up
the embankment upon which lay the
railroad truck.
The condition of the body Indicated
that after the boy had been attacked
his head was smashed against a tree.
breaking his neck.
In tl respects the
.m.,, ie i j nr,.llet of the Anna Mav
discovery of his outer clothing near the
six mile water works vexterday after
noon. A botanist cmplo-d by the
State Agricultural Department found the
clothing and brought it to pollen head
quarters, where It was Identltled by the
boy's aunt. Mrs. John J. Shea, with
whom he lived.
srari'hrri Are llnubletl.
, Chief Hyatt doubled the coips of
searchers. Detective John Il.iln, who
has been engaged on the case since the
hov- disappeared three weeks ago, began
a systematic combing of the woods 111 1
the vicinity. '
He Instructed his men to tire two shots I
it Ik... Hlu.iriv.tf't.a the lull Within flf- '
tfe Innutes after the orticers separatcu
,,olc,mnn Thomas Smlt'.i noticed what
'BOMBS' ON CAPITAL
Soairhlifilits anil fin us Sav
Wasliliiatoii in Tlicoiotical
Rombanlment.
WxsiiiMiTo:.'. April 11. An "enemy
niade a surnrlse attack on
Washington to-nlglit, dropped 600
pounds of high explosive and Incendiary
bombs on Government property and was
endeavoring to destroy the bureau of
engraving and printing when It was
driven off hy anti-aircraft suns at the
Washington barracks.
Theoretically this is what happened
to-night 'le tlle national capital was
surprised by the sound of mock explo
sives and the purr of tho aeroplane's
motor. It was a test conducted by the
War Department to aicertaln whether
the national capital could be protected
from an aeroplane attack. A board of
officer will decide later whether the
aeroplane succeeded or failed In Its at
tack Tlie object of the anti-aircraft gun
ners, working with powerful searchlights,
was to drive the hostile aeroplane away
or deslrov It before setlous damage could
be accomplished. At the Washington
barracks officers said to-night that
seaichllghts picked up the Invuder with
out difficulty and that the guns could
have riddled It before Its object could
have been attained.
Th nernplnne was llrst seen shnrtlv
alter 8 o'clock. The operations of the
searchlights locating It were clearly fob
lowed and the explosives, which were
real explosives, but of a huTmless char
acter h they exploded In the air, ino
vided a htartllng display of tlrewoiks for
Wabhlngtonlans.
NO DIVORCE FOR WOMAN OF 70.
French Wife Hemln Rqnnd lo
Man of MR Year.
iptrial Cable fittpatth to Thu Sc.v
Paiiis, April 16, A woman 70 years
old has asked the Krencli courts for a
divorce. Her husband Is 85 years old.
The Tribunal refused the petition
solely on the grounds of the age of the
parties and the length of time the mar
rlace hai lMtad.
GONE THREE
FOUND DEAD
- . 7 '
BSaar saaaaaaakL
TLi alkasaaaaaa
SiMMaHp9Ptajjtjtjr Bjttji
'
Billy Clark.
with one hand In his pocket. UN clothes
were badly torn and there were many
biulses on his face. The Coroner, who
examined the body Immediately after Its
discovery, announced that decomposition
had not us yet set In.
John ,1. Shea, uncle of the boy, soon
was notified of tho d!sojery. Accom
panied by the dead child's brother, he
went to the scene. When the uncle saw
the body he broke down completely. The
police led the brother away before view
ing the remains. Ills grief, however, could
not be assuaged. As he was led away
he cried bitterly. The aunt of the boy
now Is under a physician's care. News
of the disojvery nnd the condition In
which the body was found prostrated
her.
"It's Hill all right." the uncle sobbed,
as he gazed down at the body. "I
thought something like this would come
from his disappearance.
"My wife had a presentiment that Bill
would be found to-day. When I left the
house she told tne that Hill would be
found deail before 1- u'clis-k. With a
party of friends she went to a spiritualist
In Troy last night S!:o doe? not believe
111 such things, but she thought it i-ould
do no harm. The woman told her that
she had lost a boy and that tho body
would be found In a swamp before 1"
o'clock to-day. This. I think, led my
wife to remark to me that I would see
his body before I uturned home. Well,
I did. I will nexer forget It l-.erybody
has done ex er thing lo help find the lad.
Lut it l all oer now,"
t'ulil I'resrrted Hod.
Coroner Hastings said that he be
lieved the boy had been dead at least
two weeks. This would place the date
of the murder within a few days after
his disappearance. The cold weather,
-It explained, accounted for the absence
of ileconilxisltlon.
The spot wheie the boil was found i
is within ii mile of the place where I .Vo warning of the Intentions of the
Joint Weinet, a ouiiget,er, lufoimed the 'IllPn Kcu to the line pievinus to the
police several weeks ago that he had I mmv. mire eleai of land a di legation
met the t.o. He said that he, found j lv h, h' m, ,,. preioiisl appointed
him bewildered ami directed him liack l(.m (0 ,..,, Harstnw's cabin and pie
toward Alb.in. waiting on the roadside L i .i,., .kmnmu When ihe weie
until the child wus lost to sight.
The police were at first Inclined to
believe tli.it the boy was a victim of
prostration, having lo-t ids way and
starved to death iu tin lonely wilder
ness west of Albany. The condition of
the body, however, upset this theory,
Billy Clark disappeared Just three
weeks ago to-day while standing in front
ot a bs'iil moving picture theatre with a
member of his family. Several com
panions with whom he had left the
house to attend the Saturdi afternoon
educational movies, a children s ex-
hlt.lt Ion, missed him In the crowd. The
police Investigation luotight to light
thai the hoy was last seen by a com-
ii.ttiv i.f Vintlii uritiinti ,111 It... Att.nt.v
(.ountiv nub road,
shortly after Billy's
j
ik.n.,n, .... i
his aunt received a mm signed bv "The
Black Dogs" demanding pa) ment of
l,U(ii for return of Hie boy. The note
gave no directions as to where the
money was to be placed.
BELGIANS IN BRUSSELS
DEFY GERMAN ORDERS
Displav National Colors
Kiiiy's Uii( Inlay Make
Flas of Food.
on
V"nf 'ie 'f!di tit Tut. Siv
. .nie, ,mi, i... .,.s iiom iiriissei
i caches Palis only slowly. An account
of how the Inhabitants of Brussels cele
brated the birthday of King Albert on
April S has Just at rived at Havre, via
Holland.
All the shop windows In Brussels dis
played the national colors by utilizing
tho available stock, the drapers showing
cloths of the necessary colors, and the
food shops lilllng their wlndowa with
tomatoes, tapioca and pi lines.
Gen, von Hissing, the German Gov
ernor of Brussels, toibado manifesta
tions. Brussels now has German time ofll
chilly, but practlcalh retains Greenwich
time, as on previous occupations. So
when the ollielal midnight sounded It was
11 o'clock for the residents, who filled
the Ftreels and continued the demonstra
tion for another hour, singing Hit ".Mar
seillaise" and lint "Ilrabancoiine," So
large were tin nuinls'is of the manifest
lints that Ihe German police were unable
to Interfere,
16 SHIPS THROUGH CANAL. I
Belief
I. Thnl (tilde Problem
ol veil mi Piiiininu.
Sprrial Calilr Dmimtch to Tim Huv
Panama, ApiII 11.- i'ho transit of mix
teen ships through the leopeiied Panama
Canal took plnce lo-day, with a uuiubtr
of high canal olllclula waU'hlng the
progiess of Up vessels through the cut
where llic channel wns tlug out ngaln.
It is confidently believed thai there
will not be trouble again with slides. I
Col, Goellials was busy In his ofllcc mid
did not sen tho reopening of the canal,
Tho Hrlllsh slenmshlp Snlnl Veronica
nan the llrst vessel past tho slides.
Probably the same number of vessels
will crow the canal to-morrow.
MUTINY HALTS
LINER IN BAY;
ISO ON BOARD
Crew of the Brazos Demand
Higher Pay Following
Union Call.
U. S. AUTHORITIES
MAY ARREST 'M
Tlilriy-elglit members of the crew of
the New Yolk and 1'orto Hlco liner
Brazos mutinied yesterday afternoon a
short time after the vessel had left lien
pier at the Atlantic dock, Brookln.
They demanded an Increase in pay
ranging from $5 to !lj n mouth and
u-fined to navigate the ship unless their
demands were acceded to at once.
The Urazo.j, with more than 110 pas
sengers on board for the cruise In South
ern waters and a large consignment of
United Stales mall, was forced to anchor
off Greenville, between the Slalen Island
shore and the Statue of Liberty. Capt.
Barstow sent n hurried message to the
officials of the Hue, informing them of
what had happened and asking for In
structions. The superintendent of the
Brooklyn pier went to the ship, but could
do nothing more than Instruct Capt.
Barstow to He at anchor until this morn
ing and an alt orders from the owneis.
The New York police could take no hand
In the eae, for Inasmuch as the strike
occur! ed after the vessel had left port
it was beyond their Jurisdiction.
The strike, was a part of a general
campaign ordeied a shmt time uso by
the Atlantic division of the International
Seamen's Union. Andrew Uurtnetli,
president and head organizer of the or
ganlzatlun. Lsued a call printed in four I " House who are opposing Boose- w ,,,, Ml.xclulB mentioned. Gen.
languages to the crews of all vessels.; 1 ,. . .I,.r,,l n,.,i,.r ,, ., i Pershing did not say whether the. at
, hsr coastwise or transoceanic, to ,i " I X . Z. " Peking Mexicans were the populace
strike esterday for higher wages and
war risk for those whose routes eaiee
them to belligerent ports.
The schedule of wages demanded and
those for which the men of the Brazos
struck were as follows Peck crew
Boatswains, now getting J40 a month,
demand $11. quartermasters, now $31,
demand llu . carpenters, now Jtl. de
mand 111 ; able bodied seamen, now 130
demand J41 IJnflne room Oilers,
s.u, ........ . ......
145, demand $50; firemen, now HO, de-
mnnd $45: coal passers, now $3U. de i
manel 4ii; wipers on on ournina snipe.
now $30. demand $40. In addition ti.e.
war risk demanded was 2j per cent
I This Is already being paid by ninny
iiI1,.' n'.thoncli on smaller salarl
refused the strike was railed. Those who
islniek were eighteen tliemen. leu loal
passeis and ten seamen. 1
Krnnklln . Moonej, iitsident of the
steamship line, said last night that until- j
Ing would be done towntd settling trie
trouble until this morning.
"II is rank mtitluv." he said "I can
not snv what we. will tlo about It. No
demands were made prior to the sailing. .
We knew nothing ot tne nemaniis. hi-
though ot course we were familiar with
the call sent out by the Seamen s 1 iilon.
The passengers are In no danger and i
were nil left on boa id I bete is also a
iUiintit of mall." :
J Knmi Ibis It Is apparent that no dick-,
erings nave oecu enieieti in ...,.
the company and the men with the idea,
of settling tlie trouble or clearing the,
Brazos. Instead It is possible that the
Keder.il authorities in Brooklyn may '
called In early this morning to arrest the I
entire group of strikers on a rh.uge of
mutiny .1,1.1.. I
1 in oiiij ni. i sun. "ii nnn.11
war any tioui.ie 11 0,1.1 i.e 10.1 11111 "-
union's cill was the freighter Mongolia.
...1.1.1 . . 1. . .... - .. Il,l . .'.I. .aI
,"" . ,.J . 1
jesiero.iy 101 i.nm.iiin wim .i 11111111
tlous. Shortly before the sailing time
similar demands were uiiidn by h
'"W
and after some argument a tentative
agteeinent was made by which the linn
went Ixick to work and the Mongolia
Kieamed for GiMvescnd Bay. where her
cargo of explosives was waiting.
I STRIKE TIES UP COAST BOATS.
Seninen's Colon Men llulli Onl
eillt S) ,nvi. llo.liiii,
BosroN April II --About ."on maun
i Hiciiiou, 'nlleis. coal pissers. water tell
'tiers 1 1 1 .el sailors struck bile to-dav, pi-.n
ticall) !ltlg IIP all steamship lines here.
I inly one steamer, the Pottland boat, left
her wharf to-night.
It Is understood thnl the strike was
culled simultaneously all along the coast.
The Internntlon.il Seamen's Union of
America Is conducting the strike. The
men vvnnt wages standardized.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF NINE SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS:
Pajes.
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
General Ne
Sporting. Kennels
Automobile! .
Society. Drama. Music,
Gardens, Poultry, Fash
ions
FOURTH -Pictorial Magaiine
FIFTH Litliogravure Supplement
Art
SIXTH Shake:ptart Tc-centcnarv
Supplement
5f(Vr-Special Features, Books,
Queries, Chess
EIGHTH -Foreign, Schools, Fi
Fi- )
nancial, Problems 6 !-1 0
NINTH -Real tstate
Total 78
Readers or newsdealers who Jo not re-eeii-e
oil of these sections will confer a
Jatot on "The Sun" hy notifylni the Pub
lication Department at once hy the phone
(2200 Beehjmem) and missing sections
mitt he promptly oruardeJ ij Jnssille.
"OLD GUARD"
FAILS TO. GET
HUGHES' "YES"
.Justice Will Not Be Baited
as
ii Buffer Against
Roosevelt.
G. 0. P. IN CONGRESS
BEGIN TO FEAR FORD
Wasiii.soio.v, April 15. llepubllcan
leaders in Congress representing tho
Old Guaid have been trjlng to get from
Justice Hughes some Intimation to en
courage them In rallying about him as
a candidate to combat the rapidly grow.
Ing Itoosevelt sentiment.
Some of the most prominent nepubll- I
cans in Washington have failed to get
this encouragement. Tile Justice re- '
fuses to say an thing. These nepubll
lans aie d'lscouruged and apparently 1
fear to rally around the Hughes move.
nietit until they have some assurance
that they will not bo disconcerted at the
last moment by having the Justice de
cline. They admit that If they build up a
Mrong Hughes movement to combat
Itoosevelt and at tho last moment Jus
tice Hughes decline Col. Itoosevelt
probably would be nominated
The lenders nre considering the
names of ex-Senator Itoot, ex-Senator
Burton and Philander C. Knox In an
effort to find some one on whom they
can centre their support in cje .lustli-e
Hughes should decide to H move his
name from consideration Thi situa
tion has Let ti the prlnclp.il feature of
Interest in the political situation
ntl-lloooct rle Vie ii I pset.
Information that Col lioosevult's fol
lowers had elected two delegateM from
the Third Congtess district of North
Carolina esteiday and instructed them
ror Itoosevelt was a disquieting feature I V " "" , ,"'""" """'"-v. ,..,...
among the Itcpublleans u, the Senate I L "". 'l J. !'rr,,um0' l"" ,.m!t
in Washington, returned ftom
emuiw,, .un.w. '"'"""'Neither did he say whether machine
one of the delegates chosen at the con-1 h d t d wa, reporleii
NCtlon .-sterday and he p.edlcted that f Mrvl(.aI1 t(JUrc
most of the North Carolina delegation
, would vote foi the Colonel at I'hlcago,
I and predicted the nomination of Boose-
I ..it
Senator Shei man of Illinois was some-
I what exercised to-dav over published 1
' ......... .' .
,lm iu the rilinoU primary were- tMiwo-!
lenotls flnil tne ileleir.ileN chosen rnr .
delegates at heart and that the i 'l lf utlinumi mnr nue ucni .t muii-
,,,. i,i,ie ,.. f, un,u ...'ment of troops out of Columbus, or In
, I
.,. , k.,i ,.h.ie. s. '
- - r..rh' j"
l!ooevelt sentiment among Illinois Ite
publtc.iiis to Justify an) belief that he
is the second cholee or that h.s nomina
tion is desired by them."
Another source of oir to t'.ie Repub
licans in Congie.ss win. news from Ne
tiinska that Henry Kurd might cany
oft 'lie preference ,n tlie Presidential
primary next Tuesday over Senator
I'lituimiis and Heniy I. Lstabrook, his
two opponents
Senator Norrls and other Nebraska
lit publlcalu- cvpicssed the belief that
Senator Cummins would enrr the Suite,
tut they admitted there was a j rung
sentiment for Mr. Kurd
NiiIIoiihI Kuril Vtov riiirnt.
I'tudV political status Is becoming
, ......r imnortant in tin rilans of the
(.ul.H. uits:. Announcement made
tl).,,.lv ,,,,,, Ml, campaign w mid
. , , ,l!ltlrtial imiKntance. His
,, H K ,, the primary tiallot in
ivnnsvivan.a, arvl probably in other
-.,,, heie tin re Is a big pacmt and
ii,,,,. ,ii,.
..,.,. smith nf ii,.n.. .n nn,, u !
,,,..,,,.,1 ll n,.ry otii In the Michigan
h arned his llepublliau
(. illeagues that they will have to treat I
,.Hn,Hv i.efoie the campaign Is
over Notw Ithst.iudlrig tlenlals tin opinion
prevails among Itepubllcatis that Kotd
tei.i 1. osiim nut at t lie Head of 11 new
peace party, to be known probably a.s
1 .,.,..,.,. .....t.... .,.i,icn will .!...'
"
icbire against preparedness, In tavoi ot
prohibition and cqu.'il suffrage, and with
.1 tihitfiinn for social welfare legislation.
., ... IL Itiili....,..,! .....1,. tl,.,t ,t..i
elected for Senator I-i Kollettn may be
delivered to l ord if his candidacy be
comes formidable.
Senator James Hamilton Lewis pant
a tribute In the Senate debate to-day to
Col, Itoosevelt while discussing the
o,uostlon of. army volunteers, devlai ing
Hurt through his service as n volunteer
In the Bough Itlders the Colonel had
risen throush various stages In politics
until h'i occupies "a place In tin ltepubll
run pirt) where 1 might pnrapht.ise
ih:u evnrrsslon from Ciesar. that like
a blue Colossus he doth bestride them
that have been compelled to peep about
his huge legs to find themselves hldlni;
place."
"Will the Senator give his authoiity
for the statement that the distinguished
gentleman seems to belong to the Be
publican party?" asked Senator Ashurst
of Arizona.
"The only Information I have on that
subject is that which we lawyers have
n spectlng titles," was the reply. When
. the ptoperty yields to the command ot
' a person we assume that lie mut lie
i the owner."
nh'TRMT FOR T R
UhlUUll rUt( I. Ii.
OITIi'liil lletnrin Show lllm Kar
hend uf Other I'niitlltlilles.
i Din not r. April 11 Ollielal and dual
primary leturns, ns complied by tlie
cleik of Wa.ine county, show Itoosevelt
far ahead of other Presidential candl -
d.itrs In this isiunty. for 104 of his fol-
I lowers wrote his iiamo on tneir iai ots
I at the recent Presidential primary elec
III Only seven votes were cast for
Justice Hughes In this county,
llc-Jt JU1M " aft j;ol four cum
HUGHES FIGHTS USE OF NAME.
I sk orriton OfllciHl to Keen II Ini
,....
i Out of Primary.
S.vi.i.m, Ore., April IB. A telegram was
received by Secretin y of State Olcott lo
day from Charles K. Hughes In which
thu Justice said that In objected to
his name being placed on (lie primary
ballot anil requested that action be wjth
held until a letter which was on tlie
load explaining his objections had been
received.
1 This action hy Justice lluglifs probably
will postpone Ihe filing of a writ of man
damus to compel Mr. Olcott to place
Justice Hughes's mime on the ballot, as
proposed by the Hughes faction In
Portlund.
WILSON TO LIMIT THE TIME
AND ZONE OF VILLA HUNT;
PARRAL QUIE TOBREGON
PERSHING IS HEARD FROM
AFTER FIVE DA YS SILENCE
His Message Confirms Report of 42 Dead at Parral
Sends More Men to Brown Telegraph Wires Cut
After Communication Reaches Funston.
San Antonio, Tex, Apt II 15. A
week's silence from Gen. Pershing was
biokcn to-nlglit by a message to Gen.
Funston confirming the I'arral fight, with
two American soldiers and forty Mexi
cans killed.
The Mexicans. Pershing sas. filed
without provocation on the unarmed
Americana. The soldleis weie of the
Tenth Cavalry, negroes, under Col.
1,low " When a detachment waiting
outside of Parral saw the Mexicans pur
suing the unarmed men It opened tire.
Two messages came from Pershing, In
exact duplicate. One was sent from Sa
tevo by aeroplane to Chihuahua and
forwarded In a State Department code
to Collector of Customs Cobb at Hi
Paso. Cobb passed It to Oen. Hell, who
sent it on to Kunston. The other mes
sage was sent, presumably by an aerial
courier to Nainlqulpa, thence to Colum
bus, iy tin- army Held telegraph. Both
messages wer dated Saturday morning.
.More troops of the Tenth Cavalry
weie order to the support of Col. Utown.
Gen Pershing did not say where the
il tathinent in the fight nt I'arral is now,
but It Is presumed lo li.ne lemalued In
tile vicinity of Parral.
Gen. Kunston wired lien, Peishlng
immediately for moie details. Tills was,
occasioned partly because the field
General s.iid nothing of wounded Amcri
,.;,, 0'r Cll'rd2ka lroo,1!(, ',.' kotll.
sLn feir VI ore Troops.
II i understood that lien. Peisning
ie garde the situation seriously enough
to have asked for more troops. Gen,
i. ... .....
unriuii ucu u i" luiiiiieiii wit n-
l'Ht , , ,
"the Columbus region." This was duo to
th movement or nomez wltn an urmy
from Sonora State toward the American
line of communication. How many trior" j Mexicans were killed, but no further
troops went south over the border was details had been reported at the time,
not stated. ' "G ri Perslilni also reports," au-
As a precantloiutiv mea-iiie, Ii was tiounced Sei.rnt.irv Baker, "that he had
learned from otllclitl sources, orders have given full Information to Gen. Ilerrera
been forwarded to Gen Davis at Doug- as lo position, direction and general de
Ins directing him to 1 alert as to move-, tlnation of our troops pursuing Vljla.
merits south of the bottler In Smora , e h.tp suit by aeroplane for more par
with fespect in .my military bodies This tlctilais"
refers to the Gomez columns
.viajol .ainpie, rummanuiiig hi i oioin-
tars, untitled tien Kunston early tills eve-
ring that the arru field telegraph lie-
tween Columbus and Casus Gr.indes had
RAID WARNING FAILED,
SAYS MAX EASTMAN
' htlltOI' f
Hip "MasM's" A-
MM'ts That Villa Attack
Was Kxpcctpd.
Mav Hastman. editor of the .Wn.svej,
who returned from the Pacific coast rally
m March, said vesterday that he was
. . . . .' .. ... ,.
told of the raid on Columbus. N M
eighteen bonis before it occurred He
asserted that the raid was freely prophe.
sled at Columbus eight bouts before the
Mexicans appealed. Mr. listman said
that he Informed a man who carried
wotd to President Wilson at Washing
ton
Since then, he added, a quiet in -
vrstlg.itlon has been In progress,
"I was returning i-ast on ine rami
Island Itallroad," said Mr. l'..istuian last
in. ,i. "anil rear leu naciuia, .. ji., i
think It was about tsghteen hours bcfoieit,e state Department issued a permit to
the raid, which was made eaily In lb. ,u. tl , (jmernmetit of Mexico t,,
mottling of March 9. I met a United ! 1MH l.ooo.ouo rounds of s,aii lllms ., m-
...t.iio- ,., ti,.. rallwav station and , n,i.ninn,. f,-..,.. n ., ,i.
! States soldier at the railway station and
he got mo Interested by saying:
"You a.e going Into a dnr.gero.H
place. Villa has come over the line, nt
Lhimbus an.lh.ta shot up and burned
trie lown, iiiiinih - e-"e.-
trts.ps are out after him now.'
"1 related this to several other per-
sons on th tialu. and naturally we vver.i
ereitlv excited when our train reached
Columbus Itself on the e vening of March'
R i.liout eight hours before the bandits.
aitucsen u e ism , .. ..
..... ..... .... Au v. u iniiiu.l imni
ihe train the first questions weie about
t ie trai l "' "' ' w,,1Pe,i .,, ,.,
tim raid. We were surprised lo lenrn
. , ,.t...... 1. ,.,,-
. ,h'u ' ' '; ,"!. T
; toUl that It was .xpected at '':,
. llu .... - l.
Mini wits Kin j i.
.line with a large force i and had been
t,i..o- .eHv for some time, lie mi-ilit
tivtii.inir rfiiav lur um' iiinr, nt nusiii
1 " ' . ... ,. . .
t)l(, Hi.,ton laughed when they talked
,lMll t, saying they exjieeled a pretty
t,met jt wliH Nllld that a newspaper
, ri.lort,.,. nnd a special telegraph osratot
, rea,r anlved In order to facilitate
, , ,n0lnB om ot the Hoi y.
l"...v.,, . did bear the news the next
. naturally I was not only shocked,
but myeillllt'd. l couitl not unutTMa mi
I bow, willl evcty one -.air.nig oi uic ram,
i'iii,im iitesenee and seiittmentH known
1 nil over the United States, soldiers should
1 1, asleep, their horses so easily taken
iiuul their machine gutut so eaMly Jammed.
I It looked very llshy to me,
... rpmrpea to New Votk and told
Itudolnh Spreckels and CliarleB It. Crane,
Kull Information was given to a gentle
man who leported to Washington. I
have been lvcn to understand that tho
investigation has continued ever since.
1 do not know how far It lias gone."
AH lllard I). Straight nrtarnliiH.
Special Cable Despatch to Tin Sr-'.
Paiub, April IS. Wllllard D. Straight
of New York, formerly associated with
J. I. Morgan & Co., nnd Mr. Perkins
have gone to London with the Intention
of sailing for New York,
been cut after the message from Persh
ing had passed over It.
Gen, Kunston was unable to account
for the delay of Pershlmt's confirmation
of the I'arral fight. It Is not under
stood why tlin field commander could
not have despatched couriers to Chi
huahua or Niimlqulpa sooner. The fight
took place Wednesday and was given
publicity Hie following' day by Consul
Letcher, who received his Information
fioni Gin. Gutierrez. Carrnnza military
Governor of the state of Chihuahua.
Pershing said nothing of Villa, and
this Is considered significant as Indicat
ing that Pershing is more concerned In !
other developments.
I'no'fdclal advices received nt the bol
der lo-nlght siy that forty-eight Mexi
cans were killed and between seventy
and eighty InJuied when n detachment
of the Tenth Cavalry went Into I'arral
last Wednesday to recover the bodies of
two American troopers, killed when they
were buying snisjilles.
The American soldiers had n machine
gun which they turned loose on the mob.
f'arranza soldiers weie In Uic crowd nt
tncklng. they s.i.d '
The lepoit did nor say that an of the
Americans were wounded
The position of several thousand Car
rauzn troops under fien. Gomiz was oh
Reived by Aviators H.irgtie and C.orrell
on to-day's flight. OlTliials stated that
the indications were, less alarming than
pievlotisly blleed.
At the satm time precautionary meas.
in es i ontlnueil, The troops in camp here
remained under orders to be leady lo
move at a moment's notice.
Important changes were made alojig
the line of communication, strengthening
certain strategic points.
BAKER GETS THE NEWS.
e.eii. KmiMteiii titinss lllm tif Per-
shliiH. 'IVIeuriiiii,
WasIHSotun. Apnl 11. Secretary of
War Baker announced at 1 1 ."0 to
uitrht tli.it lie had Just received a telc
irram from Gen. Kunstnn oaotlnu a
telegram from Gen. Per-hlng to the
i-iirti wiu nv iwrii, i risiiiiiKt lino jusc
i received Information of an unprovoked
J attacle upon American soldiers who
had entereil Parral to buy supplies and
that two American soldiers and forty
This is tin- ttrst nttlcul Information
rrceivcii rioin t;en I'ersiung conrernlng
t1(. incident at i'arral. the War Depart-
merit having been unable to get In touch
wun him sin. e prll 10.
HOUSE GETS A BILL
FOR ARMS EMBARGO
ItiMli'iiliciii' of llliiiui
Kt'siiliitinii Auiiinsl Sup
ilii"s t Movifo.
; vsiumithn. April l.
e-olutlnn
tlllecthig the Piesideiit to stop the ex-1
potting of arms .md ammunition or war!
slllililiew .if mv km. I lot., Merle,, won In.
tioduced ill tin lion.,, to-ila) by lieple
selllatlvr ltoilelibetg of Illinois.
The nronosed prohibition applies to tile
de facto Government of the Mexican re-
public, to any oilier de facto Government
that might be rci-.,i;iirei d the United
1 '"""" '"" " "'v
corporation or
l.,,n,,.,. .A.,.,,t,.n VI.
Hodenberg said
.,ay'K papers uke the astounding
amiouiicement that
lute as yesterday
, munition from Douglas
1 line to Amu Prleta duiltig the next few
days and lli.it the ammunition is now
en route to the lirder
g of tips p,,, ,
( . . . .....
given abundant evidence of his treacli-
emus i harjcler, and unless all signs fail
mis very aiiiiuuuiiioii wuicn our newn-.
, dered and befuddled Administration Is,
permuting him to Import will be used to j
I '"' " soiaiers in .neMco
I in." .1 1 , II 1 1 1 1 1 , mi f I iiri.i ... ...i.i in,
.i.,,,i., ,,,iii,,l,v. wax seeiite.l from
. "'"')'''-" up Columbus was seemed from
' the I'nited Stales under n Krmit nf the
I .till lllisil. 11 Hill .11 a lllllf iMieii . 1 1 lit till
' m the sunshine ..r mi wino,,
.'favor. It Is bl'-M. time that Co..gief
Adiiiliiistf.itloti at a tune when Villa was
a
llt,", t Ir" "l-'i .tn" , iiiisirM
,.,.,...1.1 ,,,,.s ..,.Kl,,n,m in inevenl Hie
rk.llo,,1' 'f u.;u flM nlM..k., as the
, . : ,. , .... ., ... ... ... ' .....
...i..i. ... ,..
1 lllllllllltl I t ("II 1'A (-
leuori ycsieroay
continue In Us
seems determined lo
stupid and blundering policy In Mexico.'
DISSOLUTE HENS LAY BEST.
I Drunken IttmslerN. Too. trr
I "rnnKr" """"r" ,rp
lui-
iinivemrnl, sj ScleniUi
-.Apr.i.l'iiu, April 11. - Dissolute
roosteis mat mine homo staggering at
dawn, with maudlin crows of "hlc-a-tloodle-do,"
and hens that soak up ether
highballs really nie better parents than
teetotaller chickens.
This discovery of science, laid to
day before the annual convention of tho
American Philosophical Society, as
tounded that learned body.
Itaymoiid Pcail, biologist at the
Maine Agricultural Uxpertiuent Station,
told of experiments made at tho sta
tion upon seventy chickens. It wits
found that tho drunken chickens grew
fatter than those which wero denied
opportnlty to dissipate nnd In a year
tho aleohollo hens averaged 1st egg.s
apiece, while their whlto ribbon sis
ters averaged only S,
The rummy roosters became az and
quarrelsome, but otherwise were In ei
cedent condition.
Willing to Halt rhasc. hnC
Within a Keasonahle
Period.
HOPES TO AVOID AN
AWKWARD SITUATION
AVhile Awaiting Carranza's
Response. Troops Will
Keep Up Pursuit.
PRESIDENT PER3NTS
ARMS TO CROSS LINE
1.000.000 Rounds Go Over
at Douglas Wires to
Base Are Cut.
Wamii.mjio:;, April 15.- I'rcidtnt
WllssDii hai Instructed Secretary Lan
sing to notify Carninza that tho United
States is willing to limit tho operation
o! tho Aincricair expedition In Mexico,
both a.s to territory and to time.
A foriuil conitntmlc.'itlon to this ef
fect is bcliisT lircjiared. From an
authoritative source it was learned to
night that the l'r'sicbnt Im willing that
tho Villa chase should bo halted vvh-M
it now is and that If "within a reason
able tune" and within tho territory
where tho American i'iucch nre now
operating tht Kuullt lender is not
cauglit tho troops shall bo withdrawn.
Hy these concessions, it is said, the
President and Ills udvlscis hop. to get
around the awkvv.itd sltti.mtm thfesit
eiied by Carran.a's suggestion that ai
langcnitjiitri should :- niade for Imme
diate withdrawal of the. troops.
In the meantime and pending Car
raiiza':) itinitise tu the.su oilers the
American expedition to all Intent.) and
purposes will continue! with tho tafk
which li st nit tip.m. Stcn-tni'i u
War D.ikei m t- j: this .ifterrioou to
a ildcstloii ,t tn vviicthfi plans havei
alicady been tunic for n withdrawal
dictated the following statement.
The status of thL expedition into
Mexico is now, a., it w.us in tr., b,j
ettnnln',. in mi dial cooperation witli
tht) do facto Government oi Mexico.
Tluit fooptrailcin continues and th
cvpedltloii contintit-. Their has
net-ii no c haiisi- in it purfiost .
Theio lia been iin cli.ini.e In tht?
rJers to ir and Cii mgt is iu con
tempt l(l"!l.
ollllllU In llii.r u.
j poti wn.it information sue Sccte
taly biMil liis stitrmeiit that tho to
OnVr optr,iiiiii: ,tl;! ciumuue.-' is not
I tlnU 11.
"Whrii ..lit iu-st iwwf. uf tho I'.inal
Hit 1. lent was ifc-ivtil," s-.tiii Srctfiury
' Uik.iT, "1 said that I hoped t was cx
.f.'i.t'i'iiteil, I still rnirrt.iln that hopo
and still hop,, that it w.i.s i,k.s,i and
j .irrldeut.il In rh ii-.u-ter and w ill lead
to tin ftiiiiiirt Conseiiirncc. of
Mud."
.my
" ls '" '''
spun anii.iientU in.it ,h
Adlllllllell.ttidll .t. liloieeiliiie ...
tldeiit tlocs it appear ,,f Up. 0, fitt) o
tin i'airanz.1 Goveriuueiit that Prr.vlileti-.
I Wilson, lluough
serretar.v ..nisinc. h is
given Instructions m the Tir.isuiy D;.
11.11 till, .lit tit ii. null ul.,....,.,. .'
I arid amiiiuinioii to c tinue go,nK in ros'.t
tne border to the i.'.u ra nz.i authorities.
vvitnin tn.. past tw cut) -four littiiir. !i
'otisigiiuii in of umie than l.nOu.oii i
1 "-MM.!' .-I l-lll. ill
inns amniiniition. holo
.ip at noiigl.i.s, Arii., for near!, a mont'i,
has been a. low.il in g,i tliroilRli. In
quiries at the Titiisury Deparftneiil tins
''.''T",""!', ,,ll'lu"1 mfe.rni.iuoii lli.it
c '' l;, h''r' are actliu ei.,. ly under th
UoI"'i "l 'st "'' iurttneiit anil
" n"' nous..
' . ,i ', i '. T i' ' .,
., ' '-' !J
! s, uimfd
,;,;tfSr: W.L 'X
, inuiutlou shipments across tin, ni
mv , ,.,,',,, , . ,."
to
selillle In Hie llnrU.
Vilministnitlon memberrn ot the Senali
will as tlie House air showing signs
the Piesideiit and the
- " n . .
t ile Department
In flu Mexican t.mvie S.uatnr Stone,
chairman of tin Kmvign liel.it Ions Com
mltter. has besought Seiietary Lansing
to tain' leading members of Mm Seiiaie
more Into his , oniblein'it and has ob
tained a promise that this will be done
as soon as the Drp.ii uncut has th
situation better in hand.
Mi. Lan-lng, annul. ng to Senator
Stone, ngrred with him th.tr it would
be well to confer with Kepubllc.ni as
veil as Democratic inenib is with re.
spcrt to any future course to bo pur
sued. Ill lllle. VVI.il til" IllStl li! inns which
Secretary Lansing has received from the
President to proceed with negotiation!
w nil lartaiiit il Is s.t.il lie i'liel step
In be taken b tho 1 tilted St it eve as n
lesiilt'of the recent coniiiuinn-.itloris from
Ciirrauz.i will be to submit a proposal
for llxlng a boiimhuv mlow which the
Porsliing exprdllmu m.i.v not peiietiutt.
It is understood the southern limit
about to be suggested b) I be I'nited
Slates will lie pen the Fotithrriimo.'il
point already iraehrd l the cvprdlllon.
A second proposal which the Knltcd
States will dl-cuss with C.irr.inzn tv
latrs to a time limitation within whlcb
the Anierlc.iu expedition mint nccompli.sh
Its mission or withdraw tioni Mexico, tt
is understood that lit picsent tint I'nited
States Is iiuwlllitig lo tlx nnv delltnic
short period.
This Government realises, .iiiweve'.
that If several weeks elap-e without the.
c.iptuio of Villa tho rnlled States can
not with propriety insist .lli.il Its trnojia
la1
