.. e,
' ~PAyt:.. ? ' . e. ''4. e6!'.. i ,s.tF'i 1. ~r. ,~rti: xd ._ . ,.. i plic K.? t .;
%
.00 D"egged a
"5 ASE OF RAM
Searchight From BarracI
Make Van Forid to Lo
sate km
Watmgtea tw attam d by e
agh -rad lat &
Creeping almoet enlemUy up ire. ti
mit which overspread the river I
re.emy" airship soared ever the oil
and . 80* "dymatine"' 011
asb on the Capitol. WItt. omw
and i. the residential seetios.
Washngton.
* s the throags of peopS stream
( ever the streets and aveuee to i
playhopees. motton picture huses as
parks of Washiagtem abeut $ e elti
they heard the dre., of the rapid]
revolviug airship propellor.
lit a sigh of a moving object soul
be see. Suddenly an explosion wt
heard. Amether and another follows
The people steed still. startled, pm
sled and seeing visies of a Ge
raid like those which recently 1
cost the lives of hundreds of peep:
in London.
Explosion after explosieon occurt
drat in one part of the city and the
is another in rapid succession.
Aviater Bfl.ee eearh hts.
Operaters of the big searchlights a
the Washington Barracks made ei
pArate eforts to leeate the mysteries
"bomb" thrower, but traveling at
speed of eighty miles an hor the ml
craft was far away before the 110
following the expleinea of the born
could pick up the trait%
Suddenly a flame of light like ti
tail of a giant skysecket Shot fro
the tips of wings of the flying a
chime, and tAin the seerse of ti
"attiaktag aviator" was plainly seal
me bg w ee png-the JeS" ever tt
Wasinges In* C ; as
the ereirds mads a rtsh titeWs
P Z t, -1 -had the. big -higds
touched the ground when it was sm
rounded by a mob of the curtee. Ti
pilot. De Lie"y Thompson. an aviate
who recentty broke the worlds psi
. .. .. -sa alitude reeed who
heussnted 14.55 feet into the air a
Lee Angeles. explained the attack i
the fellowing statement:
"My pSpsin makimg tonight's "ratd
was toacelerat sentaimet for Aeril
preparedness among meheu of Ca
erss and Senate and the higt offic
of the country.
"Until I turned on the magnesium aen
prior to looping-the-loop there was t
person who knew I was hI the sky. Ti
"bombs" were of the kind used in fr
works exhibiticaS. Had I used real a
ploslves of the deadly order I could had
blown the White Este and Capitol o
the map.
Dres See "3.uheeive" Zembe.
"I dropped about M excelsior-1lle
warning 'bombs' over the resiemtial as
busines sectiom of the city. I enafned tU
explosives to the area over the watt
next to the polo laid se thur was r
dansr in case one er two falled to e:
D in the sky. I Peay for twenty mul
: t and the only makme in Which
mo~eeatf epild be gassed was dar
the thme the !reworks was on and U
bmbe droppbng.
"Aerial atek is the only danger .
openly invite by total unprepredees
Net a single anti-aireraft gun i ta- i
entire couatry. I am ing to 't*
twenty big citises i the United state
within the neat eight weeks"
DeLloyd The=asc made the ".ttel
on Washington as a demoantration to ti
Natinal Security Leages of his abBlE
to suooCsfully carry eot tactins of tt
nature. The Natiomnl Isonrity e*Usi
now are negiions with the aia
to make smenar "attaebe" Under eve
treat en twenty of iq veat premhas
ISs t the UNSiteg isten.
Sells Her Baby
To Stay Hunge
clicago Mothr eclred
Brother to Have Received
$2 foraChld
..a e. seAs dan-~ - Isess
m eihemg Lsima hemme
**ShuMe hmr 1ayse di
3a blew
U. S e . T.' R ANXOU BUSYf7. BET A NOTE IN TON+.,E1,
IS RECA TO, STOP WAR POU V A ULTa# e1'+14 iATUM
=! Bw's De- Grea A t of Coloel-Gre A i Wl Hv No A
14 ?
1 I
a S
d
V"
a
a. 1.
a
CA
a
Afe a ero4Src Acutblt"
UAVAL ATTASACE T0LR ANXPIOENUTCS BU Y FRHA TWOTE, ITNCE TOFE
- -yrISrHARS -EALE TO GSP WAF PR POUNRPOTD UNECCRDUL A RKE U TEI1APLEGE
Berlin Viw Dipemat A Dri- Gr ewaYrk Abrion -fCol ne herdor Apriev-Te Pavng Pray' themermcan Wilbmavse No the-l
the ureeofLe.V- D. Prelimin r, U Dite eve de no' deBe to Bein eta natylosbfor we Aertak reyt neo tHoorab PRe e at ifsn
. NSep tava ea k.b ofAboume-t fteaUic Sa frte Abrgd letn Heav gir "e.yBin rea e to-ct end s Datndnlsut.
y pdlCb ot .ha a4s eto Therey enpto g the .h tads Atin o7bhe tsr Dae thecl desthb theermpoary ofU SttIasngpt h n.
a Berin (ia A s s~e~q) Apr- Eu- s.Ne agan. Hpi . one ot m iTio edtor other A trm IL gae rnt th Pfric. tahen tora ues ron te Amserian th e ,
oe the rclofLetV.D ebtrU.R s E grepo" nt dear. t .e asbbdI leios thatr Vedn arte r th e e the stlortu.~ brsieant Wultatu
8. ., ecod ava, atace te A sn Fr ~ti rof the Coloted Stts for he g , rom n the ant oweru f rt s" etreayt-a t Unitd Istwating gon nt
a
16~ ~ ca..ay a Beean, a vitr o ake ofsmey, occn ping tha u Wess nd Aurian hin tes thavt h a R Snecreary rfaes Lasit.t the snt-. .
Con rbeZ eetw tirmaY huegan tHi oea atusio = ow-s forat her stayofrem o h etn Tonwcae fGrnnsb rn
ymi*litiarist s n t-hebggs ea firebpa. Theatst eaer t he le ri both t ta c hes e opar then A erican otesr
Gi' Thisl ages. .. die Jav hd I ost ad time inr s wrabeb ristht tll-eath e t hem which ill rvprtuad tote atelDeat
a made- me ..--een..yenbahis aeaeo' T he C amnthe v s a i thecnn- from t e br osg u p o erful and h. new to e an g h nitd ser ta s anigowams t
Dquret od ' w.- en*= a M ' i tt ace qa *es fca -Pgemaggssta fo-r npston a ndt enetdt t not a-the f neh aoes rente An ce
- r m o 'Yorki via emmesm o a nat a th P redte grivn ta t e egn I~rfr nd ices p thet Sn da. wl ermn y n et e ct t h e B thl dea ns, t s
Ammthat Li aval ~eterho mesent 6&M h ave ,h pi'es a with e ausgere Wnotbea wteda nsa of returrth eu, om inve OS of erman sbmaie
Y ri e bu e a " a Iatas estA a u yd" M l*le* , a d t me 4 t et woPen *kye IF reyr to the ie States. pat
.6 tws eosa .e o tw eas . .e.gtot ,,aes.,. or~t ai , .... .... ....
panba Ja~ amn sanmaerame .- tseal tomebl nuchresaserv ead ew ' toesnw l owne ereatar L dn resu
t " esa .. th nsedo G ag ti e .isiets for 0 In. M est' amMR etusptgaistyta-gi.iotdta oi .I-hoteA e
asebhee eTa ed to tet;'-= -e . p e m tNdhOif m--t-c---. ese, --"M-tatn sodetos ,eona was e ca C ons a t c h, es thad Amr!
.4. ,sm em ie en oa a N lewtrm an* the tahe - - ene , . se haner yensey oft on i t arI
Ameicn avl alabf irtpriatql,}-toIIr s M ? w at -l Pot e th s the T s e a m sasin af te ns.- a, m of to= tewar n t he'-ar
ta ....0 .misies the In ean et et o, - i- - wre OILs as theaer a tr !rh:s rh o mAb ,"s hbya m an ub -
t asasee s ase go~ _.. m- ete C trste anig host ae asr e [e t he tinof eg n thenr al ptte s a Ae nust aring. Man es . xy
t. esas e e ..s eet ..,.... ,, *o*f 1 the 's~er Ibto~ by t fo.. r ee a v. Cons.. .in[oem atd Lndona re
Amrsa aas a 'b.i ta r m a
tsa tiesse a eler s -r Olissessesp fo1ii>8Clb B erlin ittar~ Abeisdl tor. ,I ph ore OtaLna Ars Latp h mqueant.mSbhstew !a~o O~!'*a IN hs nlagb rlt ow ihb&y a oslttCtt wllhdsd
asaateS nt t the et artell Sa has of is .anse f ewD Hi
.p.erass mh-hmmre wssewapsea .at .
m a * *h ah a caet
te ' Abde 's baee aaie
usatwetrs 3eiat e aaser
LeIemse g .
I.ebt essbas
& Tw op IVihI N1 Ci
ithi Rossah Te."
KEEPS UP HUNT IN MEANTIMW
aher Fear rst OwJs C C pada 66
tinue; Mation. .pment to Car el
Rea Ws R dsUprwka Amma ni I11195
stereved " Iemasse etm. sm ' a S is asse -
Im. Funes th me eense et m. Vwe inials uas No e - a.
eResed Masl i bW 00?n0,.
tta mllmaame's Iadem..e. war Out ans a1mass" a s Ua I
semay m-a-,o wae Yasa, aten aes pae ase ba ss sesmans,
at an -nom
ianm. num . s e mpn ameones dmasammer nmm% come b
bad 4ase te ss.mmms e, m. s o .wmi, amaman
and gese... deam.a ee m ire Sa eo. >k bas slma by
=====6.== arme sa.=pateame
aevpi IN taem setArl ttmd=.. .1aw a.Pae
na t. Gm s.eams~ ~.m me. edym a.. em. so.m
e mse .ans te bdS-t at PFie6. he 0 0 n.essemian bomsh aan
to net In tme with btu shae. April 11.
President Wilson has instruded Secretary of State Lansing to
ioufy Cen. Carranza that the United States is willing to limit the oper
ttion of the American expedition in Mexico both as to territory and to
irne.
A formal communication to this effect is now in course of prepara
:ionr From an authoritative source it was learned last night that the
Pteh t is wiling that the chase after Villa should be halted where it
tow is, and that, if "within a reasoale time," and within the territory
where the American forces are now operating, the bandit leader is not
aught, the troops shall be withdrawn to the'A ccan side of the
loneary.
By these concessions, it is stated, the President and his adviuers
ave to get around the awkward situation threatened by Carranza's
mggestion that arrangements should be made for withdrawing the
cops now.
nzaredteto. te cAntinue Preset.
ttUe: In the mea.time. and Pding car
mana. respnse lo thee ofers, the
J"ea M.. Ap AlI"U~ Ad man expedition. to all intet ad
mflnry mtivliem be,. toile- DPiM. will coedmue with thea
Ma lr. Bviva" md e himma- which it wt out upon. Secretary at War
see of '.w Care Medlr Baker. in reply thim afternoon to a direct
wina to whether plan have al
move ready bee made for a withdrawal die
The plan to evm emad t tated the nwing statemet:
be based em as ntme9sted deeta- he t a the exeditiots
etten e war by the de tuee. gev- Mexico In now. an It was be the begin.
eraet of Merle* agaiast the ing. In cordial cepermUca with the
Uetded states. de facto govement of Mexico. a
ion peratnc.conthnue ha, t.thane
MORE DEAD AT t
PARRAL, FEAR a
"when the Meut awe of the Rarrma
of Wounded dier Incident wes received" said Seer
several of Wounded Soldiers Baker. I md that I hoped i we
Expected to Succumb to
an..M e"t....I an DOW a Pee
Th iInrts. eth eaet . and wenDNgA Cr
EIWCAN CASUALlIES OE W$7,000,000 Rail
n-ARE OVEp....Order Is Placed
By ee.H.. t.a.UR...
l ra.o. Tel. April c w.-Only twoti
w turicana were killedt but peveral are s etr te tf
expected to die from wound received Steel Contracto
n the Parral ight on Wednesday.
when Ma}. Frank Tompkins and a do
uachment os the Thirteenth hevalry s tan ae
were attacked by Mexican civilians. Phadephia. fra i-Otaa dti
The number of Mexica killed was gating betwe tIO wsUN and wNAmsj me
tore than 1t. pced with vatie et esme:
neM]at. Tompkins and his command ae Pen la ibeed so e . yds.
sewaeTfe and have ettabaished cotn- the Rep
Mte with ne. Pershing.a n a t w the
This n declared to be an accurate W in c heeei
ummery of the officdal report known de for atoeeo rea In e Meay at
t0 hoe bee- received here today via rad was placed by the aaa
Cbthumabmt and relayed to len. Fhn- Railroad The en ae s eem tia mans
itea at Saa Antoelo. for lolf delivery ad we s~tapl
!!le report as said to give compalete 'ma sy Wome. a Th tsw 3 Gain
in.o mtdSatstop n h its, pupe Therbe ha be te Sad
in thecereere to a ao etag is
AnUAmeic deonsraton conte smto.
Pavwi aw out* Pt'm"hente 3ret news etma the r
Osem b~ege. uttoal inct~ idetwsmreceived,"sa ee-y
Baker.i"Isaend the I hoped tt was es
beggeratnd.eIdytatlaemtmetts thtice
i. d ato.MtSaleatdsi hp ta i wasfinl.
c~h a h PitBtaiodenal Ai ebaree wem w ga
tw T heb eiry - Hurt nds.-DmS a tre ee.a
~.n.vw~ e . ~PeniOrad emr IsPacd
By H. H. BTANiSBe. eml iltT.am
S (oldr laenuie Newsn erure t ta o O
?Elso.Tex., 3Ailg 16-ny Thewoe Arli-'&
bminrias ee id bu9evr 5 r biol dus inrdme .gh
Uaimtexpectd totie fom wonds rceiv
intePra-gte Wensay
lSe.a.Frn opin n e
