tEAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See limes-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
5th YEAR
VOIil'MKi ue
MMlDKll lOfl
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, APRIL 16, 15)16.?SIXTY-TWO PAGES. J";;"''."5"?CLOUDY PRICE, FIVE CENTS.
VERS TO HEAD !
LOCAL SURVEY ON !
PREPAREDNESS:
tatc Board Named lo Co
perate with Body Headed j
by Thomas A. Edison.
DUSTRIAL PREPARATION
FOR ANY EMERGENCY^
ill Compile Data as to Manu
factories and Their Pos
sibilities.
'ONSKItVK IiAROli ltKKOUKCKS
killed Workmen Asked to Knlist in
N asi Army of Industrial
Rcscitcs.
Industrial preparedness for any pos
lble. ronftlet that may br' forced upon
he American people lo protect their j
Splits and ideals became a real and
"J *:? 1 problem to Kiehmond and Vlr
inia >esterday when a conference w,i3
k Id in this city, where plans w cro laid
or an industrial survey, wltli a view of
ietermlnlng tho country's exact statu?
?*v?ry manufacturing plant will be
sked t<-> f?tjppl>,- confidential information
is to what it can do In limn of na
lonal emergency; every skilled work-j
nan will he asked, not to enlist, at thej
lrst call for troops, but to enlist now i
n a vaster army of industrial reserves.|
o report Just what he can do, what
o'ds lie lias at hand and where he. ran
)e found on instant call.
[.oca i, roMMirncn
MARKS JIVKIIS < IIMItMA.V
There has been formed at the re
iu< st of r*resident Wilson a comniltteo
>n industrial preparedness of the Naval
'onsultlns: Board of the l.'nited States,
rhe Stato Board of Virginia organized
.?esterday with the follow inn member
ship: |
K. T. T?. Myers. .1 r.. Itichmond, civil
ind cotisiiltliiK engineer.
Frank U. Humbert, l.ow Moor. \'a.,i
mining engineer for the l.ow Moor!
Mining Company.
W. P. Mount, SalLville. general man-j
sgcr of the Matheson Alkali Works.
Walter S. Hodman, t.'nivcrsity of ;
Virginia, professor of electrical engl-i
nee-ring.
Frank IV Carpenter. Kiehmond. chief;
chemist. Virginia - Carolina Chemical
C.ompan
t \m:u n \ \ \i. no \nil
III-: \ I?i:l? 111 TIIIIMNS \. KI)IM>\
At t ho mc<-t iiiK liehl yi'st'-rday for.
purposes of organization Mr. M vers j
was elected chairman.
The general chairman in Now York
has requested the State directors to>
"nr^f jiewppapeis and other mediums
of publicity to support the work." Tito!
State directors are associate members!
of the Naval Consulting Board of the'
I'nited States, of which Thomas A.
Kdlson is chairman. The members of
the State 1. aid w.-re appointed by the
Secretary of the Navy upon tho recom
mendation of the presidents of tho sev
eral technical societies of which they
are members, these societies having
been requested by the President of
ihe 1'iiltofi ,ctat> , to muko such nomi
nations.
The ftvo societies represented are:
Vnerlcan Society of Civil Knglnecrs.
American Institute of Mining Kngl
n< ern.
American Sor-nty of Mechanical Kn
cincers.
American Institute of Electrical En
gineers.
American Chemical Society.
SIYF.IIS Orri.lNKS
scopk or movi:mi;\t
Mr. -Myers said yesterday:
"The genera] plan and scope of this '
movement for industrial preparedness!
is as follows: There are live directors
In each State, each director being a j
member of ami representing one of the :
live great technical societies; these j
directors select aids throughout the
State from the membership of the scv- J
eral societies, and in this way every j
industry in the State will be approach- |
ed and reported upon to ascertain its '
fitness and capacity for production of
munitions and supplies in case of war,
nn<1 whether the proprietors nro will
ing to co-operate and prepare them
selves for such productions.
"Tt is Intended that small trial or
ders be given to each plant for such
material as it is best fitted to produce,
and where improvements and altera
lions are needed, the expense of making
the same is to be paid by the govern
ment. Reasonable profit covering all
expense of production will bo paid for
these small trial orders. In this way
the patterns, plans, templates, etc.,
which require so much time to produce
will be made in advance, and in ease
(Continued on Twelvtli Page.)
President Wilson and Secretary
Lansing Marshaling Accumu
lation of Evidence.
SOLEMN PLEDGES VIOLATED
Contemplated Action Expected
to Bring Controversy to
Clear-Cut Issue.
W A S 1 r I N G T O N*. A pri 1 1 5.?While
President Wilson ami Sectetary I.an
sing to-day were marshaling an ac
cumulation ot evidence that Germany
In her submarine warfare has violated
| solemn pledges given to the United
States, official word of two more ship
ping disasters, due apparently to illegal
acts by German submarine com
> mandcrs, was received at the State De
partment.
Consular dispatches Indicated that
; the steamship Margatn Abbey was at
tacked without warning on April S,
and that the Aberdeen bark Invvrlyon
[ was sunk by shell (lie after the crciv
had been forced to the small boats
rnoro tliari 100 miles from shore.
Americans were aboard both ships, and
were endangered.
These two cases are being investi
gated, and may be included in the
American indictment -jf German meth
ods of conducting submarine warfare,
which, it was understood to-night,
probably would be ready for transmis
sion to Berlin early next week
The President and Secretary Lansing
devoted a large part of the day to
consideration of the submarine situa
tion. They had before them a number
of affidavits secured from American
survivors of the Sussex and other ves
sels recently attacked and a number
of documents containing information
forwarded by Great Britain.
< ONSTITITK \ I It T! A I,
admission or c.i;ir.T
It was said the actual value of the
affidavits had been materially lessened
by the contents of tho German note
replying to American inquiries. The
affidavits probably would have pla;. -d
an important pari in the indictments
if the administration did not regard
tho German statements about the Sus
sex ak constituting a virtual admission
of guilt.
It became known here to-night iha*
the contemplated aetij/i ,.f u?
Slates, whic h la expected to hi ing Hie
submarine- controversy to a clear-cm ?
'ssur. fn hcloR- matched cloae!> by the1
diplomatic representatives of oihnr
neutral nations. The United State:! is
taking into ronsid< ration tho case:; of
many neutral vessels which, while not
carrying American citizens, have, been
sunk by German submarine-. An in
vestigation thr!l(, cases has bee,
proceeding n:i tJi.? ground th.it ii was;
only by chance thit American citizens
were not aboard tho ships.
Furthermore, the. interests ..f t),..
United States and oiher neutrals .no
understood to b.> identical in some of
the cases. So far, however, the United
States has declined to act jointlv with
other neutrals, not only in regard to
the submarine question, but on other
subjects as well. It was said to-night
by a high administration official that
the American government saw no need
f"r Joint, action hi the present ?5ltu*i-:
I ion.
it was reiterated to-night that be-;
fore taking the action , onternplated
the President would consult with con-!
grcssional leaders. it was indicated!
that Republicans as well as Democrats!
would be called info ihe conference.
f o\sii)i;iMBi,F, I'KUTI nil vriov
i\ uimji.iv rotinii.v ok kick i
LONDON. April if,.?The correspon
dent at Tlio Hague of the Kxclianue 1
Telegraph Company forwards the fid
lowing:
"Considerable perturbation has been'
caused at the Berlin Foreign Office by
news received by uireless of American
dissatisfaction with the recent Ger- |
man noto. The Chancellor had several
conferences with the American ambas
sador and also discussed possibilities!
with fount von Burian, Austro-Hun- ?
garian I'oreign Minister who is now |
in Berlin. Lengthy Instructions were
sent to Ambassador von BernstoriY at ;
Washington.
"German officialdom now seems will- J
lng to strain every nervo in order to I
avoid a rupture with the United States,
while the press continues in a most j
flamboyant way to give advice to Presi- !
dent Wilson, publishing vicious art!- |
cles and cartoons of the President." i
CItKKK \ \V\I. OKKK'KII
IT.M-S OK VTTACK
PARIS, April 15.---The Greek naval
officer, an alleged account of whose ex-l
perlcnces aboard the Sussex when she!
was damaged was published by a semi-,
Official Oornian news airency. which at
(Contlnued on Fifth Pase7)
Buy-Right Hints for
the Thvifty'Housewife
Authoritative Market News
Woman's Page To-Day
The question of marketing; things to eat, the largest va
in Richmond is simplified by I riety at the lowest prices, these
reading the GROCER and
MARKET advertising in The
Times-Dispatcli this morning
before you market. The repre
sentative concerns- that cater
to the most essential needs of
life are regular advertisers in
this papor. With the choicest
merchants make marketing at
once a real joy and a'source of
genuine ECONOMY. Read the
news this morning on the Wom
an's Page. It is authority for
quality and a guide to expedi
ency in providing for the "hun
ger wants" of the household.
i XOTK?TIip Tlmca-ntwpntoli ?unriiii(ren a mnrkrd unylng on every nurchne
fetftdo #Uchmo?4 store* ghat advertise their 4 owe at price* In these page*
Many Public Officials May Be
Called Oil to Make
Refund.
DECISION IN HODGES CASE
Alexandria County School Super
intendent Ordered to Pay
Back $970.
Th n t many public officials; of thn
! Stale may bo compolled to return to
j the t.'omtnonwealth part of th<'ir -al
j iwrloK collected many years ago is
j shown in the light of a recent dei ir.ion
j of thn Supremo Court of Appeals In
tho of Superintendent ' 11? ?<!tr? of
the Alexandria County puhli< hools.
j who has he. m compelled to return to
| the State ropreeentlni: h??; increase
' (n salary for a period of three years.
How far-r*-ach!riK' this d^i-i.slon will
1 >?? there is no meatc of knowing at
this time, though Attorney-" Jenernl
Pollard says There may he hundred.< f?C
public ofliciaI.< now in office, a.- well
as jr.ariy who held "!!i ???? yoat k. af*
feci ed.
A coord in g to the Code of 1 S T. an
executive officer's :;alary cannot he
[ increased nor d* Teased during the
thf> term < f ?? f!J<??? to which he has
heon elected appointed. There ore
few. if any. dcreases In salary. mn?t
I of then!, if t all. having heen in
\ ninti \ < i i r/.i:v
i-'<>11< i:i> in>t??.i:s to itr.n m>
it was upon this section of the Code
j that a citizen <>f Alexandria County
l>a.-ed hir suit against Superintendent'
llodnrs for the r< covery of three years'
increase in salary. Mr. Hodges, who]
was appointed by the State Board of
Kdueation, receives liis pay from the
, Treasurer of Alexandria County. lHir
| ing his term of office his salary was in
' creased from $1,500 to il.SOO per an
num. or ?:io0 per year.
The Alexandria ?"otinty Court :> ward
ed the damages, amounting to SLt70. and
ordered the money to be returned
to the county a: having heon tib-'-iaPy ;
paid and recei\>d. Mr. > i ?.?11*. ap
pealed to the Hupr* n?? Coui*t t.f Appeals,
and the higher * n toi'-.a I alHno'd the1
deei'don e>f the I >wer '-our*, and Mr. !
lltnlueM returned the money.
A' cording to Superintendent Steamer, !
ih'i e are c any r :iperiitti;ndents over |
the State who have received increases!
in :;alary during their terms of otli>'c j
Atlorney-'Jcneral l'ollard stated yen-,
Li-1day v>tH. 2<-gr..'d to all M1C? in- j
<???? ir? hr.th as '.?? fichoul fiM-erin- '
? dents ami many other official;'. that ?
t ii* ii'..-re.it:cs had heen "invariably"'
? during their terms of offb c. i
IMM OITll IAI.S H \ \ I"
icr.f i:i vi:i? i\citK.\?rs
Th> r< are many State and rouiity of- |
:.i .?!?? \\ hO;,? salanea have been ili
? a: d during tlKir lerni:, of office all
.*r the St ite. and there : ins but i
'litlie doubt but that those who have
r< civ. d them iti a similar manner to
that -iven Sup? i intfcndent ll?elt? will,
i:' led by a taxpayer, be compelled to
u'ur'i the inciva.se in salary.
II .wevcr, the entire amount not
] recoverable in na: e an official !.? elec t
ed for an ensuing: term, for then ht is
I entitled to the increase in -salary, for
; the reason that tho salary was iv sc-d
[prior to li)- entering the following ,
I term, ami under tin term:; of the ?
tion of the < ode he is entitled to it
j But on no conditions is he entitled to
|an i- i-reaf.' durii.g the term he i., then
; serving.
? 'oming under the Fame :-e?-tion of
i the Code th<" somewhat muddled
! condition at ., ng from the raise i-i
.salaries awarded by the last <otor.il
Assembly t" l-'irst Auditor Moore, Com
missioner "f I.abor I'ohertj, Superin
tetKhoit Wood, of the* Stale I'eniten
tiary. State Printer Bottom and t'b-rk
Uowelle, ? t the Hielimond Circuit
Court. All of these otlloiais had their'
salaries raised, and when the !:i t
m<>nthly votnloi:-- f.?U due Auditor
Moore appealed to the A11 orney-< I en -
era I to know it' they should be paid
Mr. l'ollard instructed Air. Moore to
pay onl> the salaro roe \?d prior
to the meeting' of the 'ienera! As:-em- j
bly. lie ruled that "executive <>iii
tials' salaries could not be raised dur
ing the term of ollico for which they
were elected or appointed."
POI.I.A It I) ADVISI'.S
I'AV.MKXT AT (II.If It ATT '
Recently Mr. Moore asked the At- I
torney-Ceneral if he should pay the '
salaries of these officials, who received :
an increase in salary by the recent 1
act, on the basis of xvliat they had
received prior to the meeting of the
General Assembly or should pay them
upon the basis indicated In the Code.
Mr. Pollard's letter follows:
"In reply to yours of April will
say that I am advised by counsel for
the Superintendent of Public i'rint
ing. Superintendent of the Penitentiary
and Commissioner of 7,abor that they
will proceed to test the validity of the
increase iti their salaries.
"Pending: the proceedings in this be- I
half I advise you n> pay all of Hie of- i
(leers mentioned in your letter of April
fi at the rates received l>y them prior !
to March 1 of this year."
Increases in the salaries of all the
oflicials indicated hy Mr. Moore have j
been made during the pant ten yearsl
except in the case of the First Auditor!
himself. The Code fixes the salary of |
the Superintendent- of l'rintinjr at '
$1,500; the Superintendent of the lJenl- !
tentiary at $1,500, the salaries hoinK
now $2,800 and $"J,7.r>0, respect ively; j
tl>e salary of Commissioner of Labor '
is flxod by the ''ode at $soo and he
now receives $2,500, and the clerk of i
i th6 City Circuit Court receives $t>00.
wlicntho Code fixes it at $ u is i
I not known whether any of these sal
aries were, raised during the terms of
ofOco or not. Mr. Moore's was
not. at least, as he has not re
ceived his recent inci i-a.-e. 11 ? ? 'til! re
ceives the salary fixed l>> the Code
Senator James K. Cannon is proceed
XContinuctl-on ~Xwolvth l'a .).
TO DEAL WITH CARRANZA
ON WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS
Position of the U. S. Troops in Mexico.
Map slum Inp; (he location of General Pershing's forces in Mexico and how they are entirely .surrounded by
Carranza troops and outnumbered three to one. Tho American forces number about. 12,000 on a ilTft-mile lino
of citmmunication. There are Carranza Karri sons north, south, east and %ve.st of Pershing the principal one being
at Torreon, where General Trevino has about 4,000 men. Tho other garrisons situated at various points in Chi
huahua and Sonorn, extending as far as the international border, are as follows: General Gutierrez, Chihuahua
City. ;$,.">0O; General Gome/., Northwestern Chihuahua, 5,000; General Culles, Northern Sonorn, 12,000; General
llerrera, Satovo, 1,200; General Gavlrn, Juarez, 1,800; Genernl iiartani, Madero, 80t); General Cano, Numlquipa,
000; General Cavason, Guerrero, 500; Generall)avilla, Castus Grander, 1,200. Besides tlwv?o the Arrieta brothers
are south of the American forces In the State^of Durango, with a following estimated at about tf.000.
RE5E89E BH MOT BE
MED Fll RICHMOND
l
Haltimoro's laiug Fight. Falls Ilrforo
Opinion of Attorney-General
Gregory,
CO.VTItOVFRSV IS NOW CI,OSKl>
llediscounts of Federal Reserve In
stitution for Week Amount to
,S<><>:{,(??.">?I: n o riti o u s Resources
Shown in Consolidated Statement.
[{inlimond'R Perioral Reserve Hunk
eaur.ot ho removed lo Baltimore or any1
other city by tho Federal Reserve
Board, according to an opinion yes
terday to the hoard from Attorney-;
(Jeneral Gregory, who holds that tho
hoard has no authority to chango the
lof.it ion of a Federal reserve hank from|
? i*y to another within the. same
rti.-tri'.-t. The opinion was asked by tho;
hoard preparatory to linal action on tho
appeal of Baltimore and that of Pitts-j
hrruh for the bank now located in;
Cleveland.
'i'he lone-awaited opinion was re-!
oeived by the board yesterday in
Washington from Attorney - General j
Gregory, and will probably he. tnadoj
public to-morrow. The Baltimoro
Rlehmond contest and tho Pittsburgh-|
? "lev?? land contest have been pending
In ! >ii' the reserve hoard for more than!
eighteen months. Local bankers had'
little concern over tho ultimate resultj
of Baltimore's contest, feeling there I
was no argument strong enough to;
oft's-eL the many claims this city had I
made for the location of the bank. |
s \ \ns >11 t ii pi.i:\skd
THAT PICS I IT IS i:\i)l:i)
'"It is a piece of extremely gratify-!
in.-: news," said Oliver J. Sands, pros!-'
dent of the American National Bank,1
\vli?? was chairman of the executive
committee of Richmond business men
and bankers that worked to secure the
lo<aiion of the regional bank in this:
city. When told of the Attorney-Gen
eral's opinion last night, Mr. Sands
said:
"For my part, T was not greatly con
cerned over Baltimore's protest, for 1
have never felt that tho many superior
commercial reasons advanced for Rich
mond could be offset.
"However, it is gratifying to know
that the matter cannot he further agi
tated, for as long as thore is agitation'
theio is always a possibility that un
favorable action to Richmond might be
taken. Two-thirds of the banks,
would strongly oppose any other loca
tion of the h?nk in this district.
."The location of the hank in Rich
mond means much to the member banks
in this section, principally from the
time saved In the matter of clearings.
Tho greatest argument advanced in
i favor of Richmond as the location of
the bank was that more than four
iiftlis of the members in this district,
would save ono day, and this was an|
important item with them."
Attorney-General Gregory, In his|
opinion, also held that there is noth
ing in the law to prevont the roduction
(Coat in tied on Fifth Page.)
It.litInmre Truster Kvciindnn.
t 50 roiiml tup, Sat., April via VOItK
U1VRH t.lNJ'.. Itoturu limit April 26. Do
lliChtful water trly. i
Defenders of Verdun
Pierce German Lines
| on Dead Mans Hill
On Gaining Footing in
Trenches, However, Ber
lin Says They Were Slain
in Bayonet Fighting.
That the French troops defending the.
fortress of Verdun have launched a
vigorous counterattacks in tho region
of Dead Man's Hill. on tho west iianlc
of tho Kiver Mow so. wat. disclosed by the
official report issued on Saturday af
ternoon from tho German army head
quarters.
The attack followed violent artillery
preparation and was direcied against
the German positions south of I'orboaux
wood, in tiic t'uinieres Wood, and on
J J ad Man's Hill.
Though line after line of French
troops were mowed down, tho German
statement said, by tho concentrated ar
tillery and muchine-gun lire of tho
Gormans, some French battalions suc
ceeded in ponetratinn the Teuton po
sition on I.'ead Man's Mill. ??u gam
ing a footing in tho trenches there,
however, Berlin declare?-*, tli? were
slain in bayonet lighting.
I'aris officially is silent regarding this j
battle, the afternoon statiinont an-|
nouncing great activity of French bat- ]
terics <>n tho west, bank of ? li.Mouse, !
particularly to the west of Corbeaux
wood and along Forge- brook, but that
no infantry engagements had taken
place.
Tho latest official st:ilenient issued at!
Varis tiki Is .to mention any activity by
the French Infantry. Both east and
west of the Mouse there have been
artillery bombardments otiK.
1
SUA It 1* KllillTIVC ( (IVI'IM i:s
ON Till-: KASTIOIIN ritOXT;
On the eastern front, sharp lighting j
is going on between Austrian and [
Russian forces for positions on the'
lower Stripa and tho l>nlester Kiver, in
Galicla. and for others northeast of j
Czernowitz, in Bukowinu.
In the Italian theater the Italian anil
Austrian armies have respectively
taken tho offensive at various points
along that front. Austrian troops
stormed an Italian position at Mr/.livrh,
and claim to have beaten back sev
eral counterattacks, in which the
Italians are said to have suffered heavy j
losses.
The Austrians admit they were I
forced to evacuate a defensive posl- j
tion south of Speroue, but claim to j
have repulsed tho Italian attacks in
other sectors.
In the operations on the water four
vessels figure in the news. Tho Brit
ish steamship Shenandoah, of
tons gross, and the German steamship
llispnitia have beet sunk by mines. The I
Danish schooner I'roven has been sunk
by a German submarine at a point
t (south o? Stockholm, and tho Danish
steamship ICasan has been captured in]
the Kattegat by a large Cierman sub-!
j lllill'IIK'.
: Kit t:\Cll 1 \!?*.%NTIIV ATTACKS
IMOPt I.SI'.D WITH IIKAVV I.OSS
' nEKI.lN. April 1 -Kronoh infantry!
attacks against tlio German lines un
' Dca<l Man's Mill ami those running to]
I tho west of that, position, launched
'yesterday after \intent artillery prepa-!
'rations, worn repulsed with heavy!
' losses, says tho German oflioial state-j
nieut issued to-dayS The soldiers of a|
few battalions succeeded in penetrating
? tho Crrinan trenches on Dead Man's
Hill, but these, the statement asserts,!
wore killed in hand-to-hand lighting. |
The statement reads:
"Western front: A strong Kngiish ]
advance against, our crater positions
south of St. lClol tH?lgium) was com-!
! pletely repulseil after a hand-grenade
engagement.
"In the Argonne and to the ?*asl of!
that region there were lively local'
artillery aiid mine duels. j
i "On the left bank of the Mouse j
! enemy attacks against our positions on!
Dead Man's Mill, south of the IJois-des-I
' Cor boa ti.\. and in the Hois-des-Ouniieres, |
j preparations for which were made by |
j a great increase in the violence of the
! enemy's artillery lire, could only he
! carried through by a few battalions
| against Dead Man's Mill, thanks to tho
! destructive concentrated lire of the
troops which had been put in readiness!
un both sides of the Mouse.
"The attacking enemy waves broke;
down with the heaviest losses before?
lour lines. The few men who penetrat
' cd our trenches were killed in the j
1 hand-to-hand Unlit i
1 "On the richt bank of the Meuso. and
'on the Woovre plain the tight activity
chiefly was limited to violent artillery;
j duels. Two weak enemy hand-gre-'
nado attacks southwest of Fort Don- j
| auutont were without result.
"Kastorn theater: Attempts made by >
i the llussians yesterday to deliver local i
attacks northwest of Dvinsk were, like
'those on the previous days, unsuccess
ful
"Oil the Xervltelie Itlver. southeast of j
CJorodichtche. we easily frustrate*! an
advance by weak enemy forces, which
had been prepared by strong art! ry
fire.
| "Halkan theater There is nothing to
j report "
ritlONCH POSITIONS SI IIJKCTKU
TO lll-:\\\ IIOMIIAItmiKNT
] l'AIUS, April 16.?There was no in
fantry lighting in the Verdun region
[last night. French positions between)
Malancourt wood and lull 3f>l, west.
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
Cnrolimi Kiisler Kv< ur-iou.
}l Danvlilo. It.Mi ?.,r?>cii.<i?i>i>?. S \V initon-j
i Salein, N.iliabury ami Mtnlosv 111'-. f Char-;
lotto; flit AeHcvItt*. Sat., April U2, via
IfiOUTHilKN 11WX. Return mall April 26.1
WILSON DECIDES
REQUEST IS CAUSE
FOR NEGOTIATION
Willing' to Agree to Fix
Limit of Time and
Distance.
IN MEANTIME, PURSUIT
OF VILLA CONTINUES
Reply to De Facto Government
Expected to Go Forward
in Short Time.
DISCUSSED FULTjY BY CARfVET
Funston Reports That He Has Hear*!
Nothing From Pershing
in Three Days.
Pershing Reports
on Clash at Parral
WASHINGTON'. April 15 The
flmt <1 III ri ii I report In tlie clnnh
Wednesday ill l*iirml, renelilnjp llir
AVnr Hepnrtnient Into to-nlcht from
General KlinMon, Maid Inn American
trooper* anil forty .Mexicans wpre
killed.
Secrrlnry linker inn tic this no
tion nenm put j
"Tflfgrnm from General Kunston
quotes n telejcrnin from General
IVrNliinK to the elTect tlint he Iibn
Ju*t received Information of nil un
provoked nttnek upon American jioI
dlrr* who lind entered I'arrnl to liny
HiipplloM. ffiH Infornuitlon In thnt
two American xoliller* ond forty
llexIcaiiM were killed, lint no further
[ details hud liecn reported nt the
time.
"General l'e?->?|ilnK nlou report* I
thnt lie linn given full Infornintlou
to Genernl Ilerreru ns to the pomI- J
tlon. direction nnd general dentlnn- !
tlon of our troop* pursuing Yllln. ,
He him sent l?y aeroplane for full j
particulars."
WASHINGTON', April 15.?Pre?ide:it
Wilson lias decided to inform Clonomi
t'arranza, in response to his request ,
for withdrawal of American troops
from Mexico, that the United State? ?A
will negotiate for an agreement along
these lines.
This government Is willing to agree
to fix a limit on tho distance the
American troops now in pursuit 01'
Villa shall proceed Into Mexico. and
to make that limit not much further
south than the troops already have
proceeded.
The United States is willing to glv?
assurances that tho American -troops
will lie withdrawn within "a reasonable f
time," or as soon as it Is definitely
established that Villa has reached a
point where he can bo dealt with bet
ter by (he Carranza forces.
These points, it become known to
night, were discussed fully at yester
day's Cabinet meeting. Tho President's
advisers tire said to have agreed on
such a course in the belief that 'it
would make stronger the chances of
catching Villa. A reply to General C'ar
ninza is said to be virtually completed,
and is expected to go forward in a
very short, time.
NO CHANGIS IN OltOKItS
TO KOltCKS IN MEXICO
Meantime, tho pursuit of Villa by
I American troops will continue. Secre
? ti??? v Raker sharply outlined this to
j <lay in^ a formal statement.
"The status of the expedition Into
! Mexico is as it was at the beginning,
i in cordial co-operation with the de
! facto government of Mexico," lie said.
| "That co-operation continues and th?
! expedition continues. There iuis been
no change. in tiie orders, and none is
in contemplation."
Secretary Baker and other ollieials
laid stress 011 tho fact that co-opera
lion of (Jarran-'.a troops was regarded
as au important element, and nesotln
lions for an agreement with the de
facto government will bo conducted
with the idea that it would strengthen
Carranza at home and make the taak
of catching Villa easier.
The lines of communication of 'he
American troops already have been
lengthened t>> the point where send
ing supplies lias become diflicuU. It
is realized here that it would be ? x
trcmoly hazardous for them to go snitch
further.
TltVINt; TO OIITAIV lU'.POKT
ON I'AltHAI, I \ t II>B.VT
A dispatch from General Kunston to
day said he had not heard front Gen
eral Pershing for three days General
Kunston added he was trying to obtain
from the front an authentic report of
what had occurred at Parral on Wed
ne.sdn y.
Much importance is stttacfted to this
report, in view of tlie negotiations with
Carranza. The long delay and an un
confirmed report to-day of si second at*
t ick on tho Americans near Parral
caused uneasiness in some quarters
"I still hope,'' Secretary linker said,
however.' "that reports of the Parral
Incident are exonerated: that it will
prove to have been local and acef*
dental, and that there will be no further
consequences of any kind."
The otilv word the State Department
had regarding the Parral cajiO cam*
Xrom oonaula at Mexico City el* 6^
