r .'s'wnBrw.TT?,
' I'Si 7vwi& v7-r v ,lp'-,r)vnarnp'pi ';" .
9The "Wahfamtatt W
WEATHER FORECAST:
Cloudy and Warmer
(Full Report on'Pnfco Two.)
Sunday Evening
Edition
it , WASHINGTON, 8rttT DAY EVENING-, APRIL 10, 1010.
NUMBER 8872.
PRICE ONE CENT.
VILLA, WOUNDED, HIDES NEAR PARRA,
RE-ENFORCEMENTS SENT TO PERSH1
LWW1''"
i w .1
YOUTH
SHOOTS
FATHER; HELD
FOR ASSAULT
Seventeen - Year - Old Malcolm
Reld Objects to Parent Cor
recting Younger Brother.
"DIDN'T MEAN TO KILL HIM"
Malcolm Reid, seventeen, is
held at the Tenth precinct police
station on a charge of assault with
a dangerous weapon.
His father, John R. Reid, forty-
one, is in Garfield Hospital, with
a bullet wound in his left temple.
The boy, the police charge, shot
his father during a quarrel this
morning in the front yard of their
home, in Sligo Mill road north
cast. Physicians at the hospital be
lieve that the bullet, deflected by
the bones of the skull, took a
downward course, and did not in
flict a fatal injury.
Police of the Tenth precinct re
ceived word of the shooting about
9:30 o'clock. Policemen Edwards
and Adcock went to the scene in
the motor patrol.
I WOUNDED MAN IN ROAD.
There, Adock says, ho found the
wounded man Boated beside tho road.
He recovered tho weapon with -which
the -wound -was Inflicted from a nelgh
bor. who said ho had gotten It from
Malcolrj BeM. Tho boy. Bays Adcock,
surrendered voluntarily to the police as
soon a they arrived.
Tho wounded man was ablo to talk,
(Continued on Fourth Pago.)
AT
TAKE OFFENSIVE
Direct Savage Attack on Be
tween Cumieres Wood and
Dead Man's Hill.
LONDON, April 16. Determined
French attacks directed at tho Gor
man line between Ded Man's Hill and
Cunucres Wood, and hand-to-hand
fighting west of the Mouse Is yielding
ground in the new French offense at
Vordun.
Savage bayonet attacks carried
Germun positions on tho Mopes of
Dead Man's Hill, but Berlin dis
patches assert the enemy was un
able to hold tho gain,
Thot flgor'ous offlonBO was unexpected.
FRENCH
VERDUN
it Both commanders are massing;
uuujm cnni hiiu noo u. me ..md.
.South of Haudremont Wood and
about Douaumont tho German bom
hhrdment Is terrific. Infantry clashes
Hie expected today or tomorrow.
Hill 304 and Daed Man's Hill are
expected to be thb objective of the
German attack.
German guns ore pounding: at the
southwestern slopes of 304, Esnes, and
other communication points.
An official istatement from the
French war office reports the bom
bardment particularly violent In Cau
jotte woods. Artillery on both sides
was very active on the east bank of
the Meuso also.
In the Argonne, French artillery
today swelled roan 8 near xvioniraucon,
over which the Germans were mov
ing supply trains.
On Eastern Front.
On the eastern front sharp fighting
I under way between Austrian and
Russian forcc3 for positions on the low
er fctilpa and tho Dnelster river, in
uGllcla, nnd for others northeast of
Czcrnowltg, In Kukowlna.
In tho Italian theater tho tlallun and
Aust-lan armies have, respectively taken
the offensive nt various points along
that front. Austilan troops stormed
nn ItiUlu;: position at Mrzlivrh, nnd
Vienna rcporto they hnvo beaten back
several counter-attacks, in which the
Italians .no said to have Buffered heavy
louses.
The Ail3i-lanfe admit they were forced
to evacuutL a dcfenslvo position south
if Sperone, but say they have repulsed
the Italian attack In other sectors.
Tragedy of Underpaid U. S. Workers
Told In "Book of Heart Throbs
How "Other Half," the $2 a Day Employes
Live on Uncle Sam's Pittance Little Girl
Disillusioned As to Santa Almshouse
Only Prospect After Life of Privation.
By THEODORE H. TILLER.
There is soon to come from the Government Printing Office,
where the copy will be handled by men and women who have lived
the stories it contains, one of the most remarkable documents ever
published by the Congress of the United States.
The book will bear the official imprint of the Government. It
will be "a book of heart throbs." So it has already been called by
Congressman John I. Nolan of California, author of the bill providing
that hereafter this Government shall not pay any employe less than
$3 a day.
It is probable that no Government will ever print a more severe
indictment of its own parsimony.
Hearings on the Nolan bill have been conducted by a subcom
mittee of the House Committee on Labor. These hearings may Well
be read by every Government official, by every person who would
know how the ''other half of the world lives, and whether or not
the reader believes that the minimum wage is a doctrine of altruism.
Before the House subcommittee have come men and women of
the Governmental army of the underpaid; fathers who left hungry
children at home; husbands whose wives regard them as' failures;
widows who struggle at the heads- of-fnmilies; sons who support in
valid mothers, and bearers of tidings of hearthstone tragedies and up
hill fights merely to exist on $2 a day or less.
What else may one expect when it is revealed that more than
7,000 Government employes in this city exist on less than $720 a
year; that 2,640 additional are paid $840, or less, and that 12,840
wage earners of the United States in its Capital City do not receive
above $1,000 a year?
The hearings bring before the bar of public opinion the case of
thousands of helpless, poorly paid, discouraged employes against n
powerful, rich and unheeding employer the minor clerk, the laborer,
the janitor and the departmental messenger against the Federal
Government.
Congressman Nolan says the appropriations of the Government
have more than doubled in fifteen years. The. high cost of living
as represented by the increased amount the Government pays for its
battleships, feul oil, army rations, gasolene, medical supplies, and
contract labor is reflected in these larger appropriations.
Only the Government employe has been passed by in the dis
tribution of money incident to latter-day living demands.
CONTRAST OF SOME APPROPRIATIONS.
The same Congress that appropriates
S40,000,O for public buildings, $18,000,000
for a battleship, 11,000,000 for a monu
ment, or 00,000 for the eradication of
the cattlo tick and free garden seeds
for concrcBamen, appropriates for the
employ of Government workers at $1.25,
Jt.M and $2 a day or charwoman, at
$.'0 and VJ. a month.
Tho same members of Congress who
Increased their own salaries from $5,000
to $T,50u when the cost of living harried
them, have left practically untouched
Heavy Losses Due
To Forest Fires
Flames Sweeping Through Timber
in Virginia and North
Carolina.
Reports received here from many
places In Virginia and North Carolina
show considerable losses by forest Area,
which In several counties have -gotten
beyond control of farmers, who have
been fighting the flames since yester
day. The Norva Lumber Company, near
Wallaceton, Va.( had timber valued at
$25,000 destroyed. The Itoper Lumber
Company also lost heavily. Forty men
fought the Are all last night at Wallace
ton. Benjamin Smith, engineer on a log
ging train, tcmuincd at his post until
the heat from tho burning forest broke
the glass In tho cab. Then he leaped
to tho ground with his clothing on fire,
lie was saved by companions.
Ht. James Kplscopal Church, nt
Pantegon, N. C, one of the most ancient
houses of worship In tho State, was de
stroyed by fire. Tho building caught
from embers from the burning forest.
In NHnscmoiul county men and wom
en fought tho (lames all Friday night,
and saved their homes from destruction.
Tho forestH aro believed to Imvo been
set on fire by farmers who fulled to
cxtlngush fires started on their own
property to burn trash.
a scale of compensation for Govern
ment employes written more than a
half century ago.
Hearings on the Nolan bill spread
upon the records the tales of discontent
of faith I ul Government servants whose
patriotism has been set back by the
flabblness of the pay envelope.
There is little of cheer in this forth
coming book of hearings. One will find
there the story of a little girl whose
faith In a Santa Claus was shattered
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
Virginia Railway
Poles Cut Down
Officials Declare Strikers or Sym
pathizers Caused Tie-up of
Two Hours on Road.
Four poles supporting the trolley wire
on the Falls Churcb division of the
Washington-Virginia railway were saw
ed down and thrown across the tarcks
near Fort Myer early today.
Officials of tho company charged "the
crime was committed by strikers or
sympathizers who are known to have
been In the neighborhood early this
morning."
Traffic on the east and west trao'
was tied up two hours or more, but was
resumed at 9 o'clock thin mnrnlnir.
At the company's offices it was said
if it wero necessary a reward would
be offered for tho apprehension of the
guilty persons.
Superintendent Klncr aald: "Sentence
of fourteen years in tho penitentiary
await tho man who sawed down those
poles. Had anyone been killed by the
pretence of tho poles on tho tracks tho
pcri.ctrators would race charges or
murder,"
Tho motorman on tho drat oar which
loft tho Lacey barn about 7 o'clock this
mcrnlng discovered tho tour poles and
dangling wires on tho track ahead oc
his rapidly moving cur. He wuh able
to stop Just a few feet from the debris.
The mutter was reported to officials at
the barn and a wrecking crew was at
once dispatched to the scene.
FINAL U-BOAT
READY FOR KAISER
President Foregoes Church to
Put Finishing Touches on
Practical Ultimatum.
Unless an eleventh-hour move bv Ger
many should prevent. America's state
ment of her case against the German
government In the matter of submarine
warfaro will be on its way to Berlin by
tomorrow.
President Wilson today nut the final
touches to tho note that practically will
be an ultimatum.
A draft of the communication wan
submitted to the White House by Sec
retary Lansing. The President dis
missed the car that was waiting to
take him to church, and remained In his
study to give final study to the note.
Whether members of the Foreign Re
lations Committees of the Senate and
House will be called to the White House
for conferences supplementary to those
already held between tho President and
Secretary Lansing with Chairmen Stone
and Flood, was not announced today.
it was stated on hlghost authority
that tho Administration has determined
its course, and is ready to proceed at
once to carry out nn aeierminauon oi
submitting the nation's final demands to
tho Gormnn government. .
buggostlon that Germany may net In
a manner to delay the rending of the
fate communication was seen In dis
patches that tho Berlin foreign otnee
was bending every ertort to avoid a
break.
Ambassador Gorard had been In fre
quent confcrcnco with tho chancollor,
and tho latter had sont new Instructions
to Ambassador Bernstorff, according to
unofficial reports. BcrnBtorff could not
b reached here to deny or atnrm them.
A highly confidential document sent
from tho Stato Department to tho
White House was reported to contain
Important word from Gerard, but this
llkuwlso could not bo confirmed. Ofn
clul Washington gave real credence to
theso reports, howovcr. Now that tho
long threatened break with tho Ucrmun
empire has become so imminent that
most oftlcluls bollevo only satisfactory
resronso to tho document drafted toduy
can avoid it, tho disposition scorns to bo
to grasp at any suggestion that may
mean the contrary.
The Indictment against Germany, It Is
aald, contains Htxty-llvc counts names
sixty-live Instunccs of ships torpedoed in
violation of German pledges.
Nil i
I. NOLAN, of California.
L IS LAUDED
OF
Sentiment Sweeping Country
Now Centering on Oyster
Bay.
OTSTErt BAY. April IS. If the senti
ments expressed In the thousands of
letters pouring In on Colonel Roosevelt
are anv criterion, he Is tho most popular
man in tho Republican partv today.
Among the writers are hundreds who
scored him for his defcctloi from the
old party In 1912. All express tho hope
that he will be nominated.
According to George W. Perkins, the
colonel la nto for war for war's sako
only.
"Twice Colonel Roicvelt had the op
portunity to plunge this country into
war," Buld Mr. Perkins, "once with Ger
many and once with Great Britain.
This, which is a matter of record In the
archives of tho Department of State,
ought to be a sufficient answer to the
charge made by Colonel Roosevelt's
enemies that ho would crowd the na
tion Into war If ho had the opportunity."
Mr. Perkins reviewed briefly the his
tory of theso two crises, the first with
Great Britain over tho Alaskan bound
ary, during Colonel Rosevclt's first
term. This was settled on tho terms
that Mr. Roosevelt held to be Just nnd
fair, terms to by Lord Chief Justice
Alverstone, ono of Gi ;ut Britain's rep
resentatives who voted with tho Ameri
cans Colonel Itosevclt appointed Sena
tors Root, Lodge and Turner.
The eccond Incident uhlch Mr Perk
Ins pointed out was an opportunity for
the colonel to bring about war with an
Kuropcun country occurred while tho
Alaskan boundary dispute was pend
ing. Genranv hud claims ncalnst Venezu
ela for its refusal to keep Its pledge to
pay the Interest on J.'O.OOo.OOO of Gcr
miin capital, which hud been Invested in
u Venczulean railroad.
Germany was on tho point of occupy
ing Venczulean tcriltory In violation
of the Monroe doctrine, and tho diplo
matic protests of this country when
Colonel Roosevelt stepped in and suc
ceeded lit making a fr'.endly settlement,
nnd one In accord with this countiy's
attitude wheru the recognized diplo
mats fulled.
FLOOD
ill
U.S.C0RD0N TIGHTENS
ABOUT BANDIT CHIEF,
SAY BORDER REPORTS
Anti-American Outbreaks in Mexico Rumored,
Wires Cut Between Namiquipa and Colum
bus Troops Along
for Hostile Demonstration,
Francisco Villa, with a
the greatest agony, is in hiding near Jiminez and the flying
squadron is far south of his present hiding place, accord
ing to unconfirmed reports from the border today.
In view of the Administration's decision to agree to
Cirranza's demand not to send troops "much further
sotith," army officers are inclined to credit the report that
a cordon has been drawn around the bandit chief and that
his caphue may be affected without a further advance intd
Mexico.
Carranza officials profess to believe that Villa is dead
ojr has made good his escape, in view of the fact that they
have had no reports of his whereabouts for several days.
While Brigadier General Pershing- brief-account of
Jheclash-fit Parralhas served to relieve, to a great extent,
""tn'e alarm among officials over the situation at Parral, mes
sages over Mexican wires report further anti-Americair
outbreaks.
AWAIT FULL REPORTS.
Not a line of information further than Pershing's re
port that two United States soldiers and forty Mexicans
were killed in the treacherous attack on the Tenth Cavalry,
has reached official Washington.
A full report is said" to be on the wav from State De
partment Agent Zack Cobb, who obtained his informatibn
from consular and military sources in Mexico. J
Carranza's attitude is now causing deep alarm amon;r
army heads on the border. Re-enforcements, the number
of which is unknown, have been rushed southward. Majov
General Funston intimates that the force in the neighbor
hood of Parral is now capable of taking care of itself.
For fvrty-eight hours the troops along the border hav
been on the qui vive. For the last two nights, from iEl
Paso to Douglas, the American soldiers have slept on thKr
arms. Today was the time set by rumor alorig-the border '
for an attack on the American line of-communication, bit
this morning's reports show no real signs of trouble.
TELEGRAPH WIRES CUT.
One disquieting report was that the telegraph line be
tween Namiquipa and Columbus had been cut by Mer-.
icans, but there was nothing to indicate whether it was t)i&
work of snipers or of Carranza soldiers. .
It is announced that the additional troops sent inrn
Mexico will not be used merely to guard the line of corrm
munication, but will be rushed south to strengthen Pert .
shing's fighting force. It
forces win not rje Tunner weaKeneci.
In army circles, the belief is prevalent that the Ad-t
ministration has no intention of withdrawing troops front
Mexico in response to Carranza's "request."
Statements that the United States is willing to meet)
his requirements about curtailing advance south are takenj
to mean that the belief is prevalent that Villa is in hiding
somewhere north of the advance guard and a "play for
time." .
Villa Deserters Bring
News of Bandit Chief
KL PASO, Tex., April 16. American
troops waited In readiness all along the
Mexican border today. For two days
they have been undor orders to be ready
to go Into action immediately.
This was the date set by rumor along
tho border for nn Attack by the Car
ranzlstas on the American line of com
munication, and the .American forces
hnvo slept on their arms for two nights,
from Kl Paso to Douglas.
The attack failed, like most border
rumors, of ma totalization, unil so far
as could be learned today, everything
was quiet along the border and along
Border in Readiness
wounded leg that causes hins&i-
is understood that the bordeijLl 1
the Ptrshlng linn of communication aa
far south as his headquarters at Satevo.
Seven Moxlcans who arrived last
night In Juarez, and who claimed to
have been hold prisoners by Villa until
he i cached Satevo. asserted that Villa
was in great pain, and that ho wai
screaming In agony most of tho time.
They said when he wag shot In tho leg
tho bullet crushed a bone. Ilo hud but
twelvo men with him when he left
batevn for tho south, these men as
serted. Reports from private sources and to
the army give good authority for the
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
.'a -
"SPl
