WEATHER
filAHKElSs
mw YORK CITY
Average price of cop.
per for week -ending
April 12. 27.23.
Sunday and Monday
generally fair; not
much change in tern-,
perature.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 277.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, APRIL 16, 1916. V
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
I1D STATES fl
I
5
b
44ttf Pit
More Fuel
NEUTRALS HKENERAL
INTEREST IN
' While President and Secretary
Confer on Question News is
Received of Two More Al
leged Violations of Law. '
.
OTHER NATIONS ARE
DEEPLY CONCERNED
American Demand Will Be
Ready for Dispatch to Ber
lin Sometime During the
Coming Week. .
J
(By Review Leased Wire )
WASHINGTON, April 13. While
President Wilson and Secretary Lan
sing today were engaged In marshal
ling the accumulation of evidence that
Germany, la her submarine warfare,
had violated solemn pledges given to
the United States of the word of two
noie shipping disasters, apparently
due to illegal acts by Genman submar
ine commanders, was received at the
S'file Department. Consular dispatch
es indicated that the steamship Mar
fan Abbey was attacked without warn
in? on April S and that the Inverlyon
was sunk by shell fire after the crew
had teeii forced to the small boats
more than 100 miles from shore.
Americans were aboard both ships;
and were endangered.
"These two cases are being invest!?
gated and may be included in the Am-J
erican demand of German methods of
conducting submarine warfare which
it was said tonight would be ready for
transmission to Berlin early next week
The President and Secretary Lansing
devoted a large part of the day to the
consideration of the submarine situa
tion. They had before them a number
of affidavits secured from American
Furvivors of the Sussex and other ves
pels recently attached and a number of
documents containing information for
warded by the British government.
These documents arrived on the liner
St. Paul yesterday. They reached
here this afternoon. -
tt was said the actual value' of 'affi
davits had been materially lessened
ty the contents of the German note
replying to the- American inquiries.
The air-davits probably would have
played an important part in the indicl
nent if the administration did not re
rerd the German statement,, about the
Susses as constituting a virtual admj
tion of guilt. -s
It became known here tonight that
tile contemplated action of the United
States, which is expected to bring the
submarine controversy to a clear cut
issue, is being watched closely by the
diplomatic representatives of other
neutral nations. The United State8 is
taking into consideration the case of
many neutral vessels which, while not
carrying American citizens, have been
runk by German submarines. Inves
tigation of these caes has been pro
ceeding some time. Furthermore, the
interests of the United Stateg and oth
er neutrals are understood to be identi
cal in some of the cases. So far, how
ever, the United States has declined to
act with other neutrals not only in re
gard to the submarine question but on
other subjects as well. It was said the
American government saw no need for
joint action in the present situation.
, It was reiterated they thought tak
ing the r.ction contemplated the Presi
dent would consult with Congressional
leaders. It was indicated that Repub
licans as well as Democrats would be
tslled into the conference.
KAISER CONFERS HONORS
LONDON, April 15. A Berlin "Lok
nl Anzieger" dispatch to" Reuter's
says that the German e'uperor has con j
ic-rrfu 1 :ie nuiicuzuiiem wruer on two
eubtnarine commanders, Lieut. Wen
ninger and Lieut. Von Warner.
Recently the emperor contended the
Prussian Order "Pour le Merite" the
highest German decoration, on the sub
marine commander, Lieut. Otto Stein
beck. COWMAN KILLS WOMAN.
GREAT FALLS. Mont.. April 15.
John Neuman of Belt today shot and
killed Mrs. Anna Kowell of Raynes
ford. set fire to a barn in which three
head of stock burned and then went
to the Kowell pasture where he shot
two cows. He was found dead in the
pacture with a self inflicted gunshot
wound. Neuroan bad quarreled with
Mrs. Kowell over the payment of a
note.
Heaped Upon German
STRIKE:
OF SEAMEN IS
FORESEEN III
Two Steamships Tied Up, for j
Various Periods in N. Y.
Sailors Want 25 Per Cent
Increase in Wages.
(By Review Leased Vire.)
NEW YORK. April 15. Action be-!
lieved to be the forerunner of an effort j
to cause a general strike among sea
men of all classes on ocean going j
steamships resulted here today in one
vessel, the American liner Mongolia,
being delayed several hours In sail
ing; another, the New York and Porto
r; r.-na twinr inri-vA tn'Ameriean soldiers, who had entered
anchor down the W after leaving
the pier. "
Th. Mongolia, laden with 100.000
tons of mixed cargo for Liverpool was
to sail early in the day. but did not get
away until 6 -p. m. The crew it was
said, struck after a demand for higher
wages had been refused by officials
ii th.
oi uitr nui-i..u ...nr.
oi final v ant oil tt wna erneeted that I
. ""-"L'TCr-m?' "I -
mice naa neeu enwieu. auu uim
some of the demands of,the strikers
had been 'granted.
The Brazos had made her way as
far as the statute ofjiberty on lier out
ward voyage when a delegation of
firemen, coalpassers and sailors was
saidto have appeared before Captain
H W Barstow and presented de-
mands similar to those In the case
of the Mongolia. Captain Barstow ;
Immediately anchored his shin and
communicated the news of the threat-
A d-;Va t . n Awnam Tlia latlAV . U 1 : n nnA Kanon o .h-(rs Ifil'fin Cirii-Ta tn nL-n nil n r o. informed flint ttlPV tt'are In linlfl ttlani. !
riooiinori tn TtinV-o nnv comment tn- ,.1. ...... r.r, inrf iovionu Ua .nn'mn u-nro tn nonernt riavU selves in readiness to leave here at a I ' '
n!crh .-j . u . : ,1 a .. ni r,,i.. r.cif i.i,.h nio..n o moments notice, counled with the rrsrr,r
Th. rionianria nf tho coamon wera ...j ;.,...ki vi-: - t i ......i j 1 serving of field rations., etc.. to-the I1' lu -1""'f-e in
printed tn four languages, t-ngnsn. hvr.icrlcr.iis or Mexicans wac. made. I Whether Colonel Brown's troops are
Spanish. Italian and Portuguese. and j Tne Americans were a detaclunent "till camped in the immediate vicinity
posted by the strikers on the Mon- of tbe 10ln Cavalrv and it was indicat-iof Parral or whether they have contin
goliaand the Brazos They were sig n-1 were commanded by Col. jued on south over some trail that pass
ed by officers of the Internattonal w c Brnwn arollnd ,.,e ,own ,s unknown here.
Mltotoft&wSil increase! General Pershing said he- had de- Genera. Funston also is without infor
In wages, to be known as a 'war risk,Ptch additional troops in the direc iat.on reg?;rd.n? the developments at
1 .,hh. .11 oi.ci.oc, r oJ tion of Parral. but General Funston , Parral cn the day after the trouble be-
wuua fiiv-iic w ei viaooco ui .
men aboard vessels passing through I
the European war zones, demands of
further increase in monthlv nav wer
made. . '
CAPTAIN'S WIFE SUICIDES"""
riOT..., ...
Frances Hennessy. wife of Captain !
. r m , .
oni.wiw.-c, jiiiii i.. iwm.
i-reaencK a. nennessy 01 me ra
Field Artillerv, and daughter of Gen-
erol Robt O'Reillv late sureeon -en-
erai KoDt. u Keitiy. tate surgeon ,-en
rnl nf th armv committed suicide
erai or me army, commiuea suiciae
here today by aspnyxiation. " "- " ' easiness today. Although even yet it' ihe line had been discovered pointing
LT ridenTs or b soldiers or w helh detach-j toward Douglas was one of the ru-
ARMV MEN CONTRIBUTE. 'K
NEW YORK, April 15.-Officers and 1ion was made of anv assistance given ' nesdny. The account it gave or itself j The story that thousands of De Fac
enlisted men of the United States the Mexican troops in the suppression j v'ld have convinced oflicers here it to troops were congregating a few
army stationed at Laredo. Texas. Is 0f rioters or , ,he restoration of r-1 ' take care of itse If m le. 1 so uth of here Jn preparation for
ttna nnniii.M. inn. tflit havA nnntrt. . Ti e route' of the nursuit of Villa a-1 raining ine lonn, was again revivea.
butd $173.54 to the fund being raised
by the Aero Club of America for the
training of civilian aviators and mil
itary officers and procuring highpow
ered aircraft. The plan is to form
a reserve to make un the deficiency
of army aviators and machines now
in Mexico. The Duchess, of Tallyer
and. formerly Miss Anna Gould, who
is now living in Paris, also has con
tributed $100.
REPUBLICANS SET
DATE TOR DOUGLAS MAY
..Republican Central committeemen.
representing every precinct in Co
chise county, met last evening in Naco
and perfected arrangements for hold
ing mass meetings in every precinct
on April 25 and a county convention
in Douglas, April 29.. Owing to the
ban. placed upon the holding of meet
ings in the Warren district, the com
mitteemen, after arriving in the dis
trict, moved to Naco, where the meet
ing was held.
Owing to the departure of George
Crysler from the county Albert M.
Sanies, formerly chairman of the state
committee and prominent for many
years in Republican politics, was nom
inated by A. H. Gardner, of Tomb
stone, for the chairmanship. The com
mittee was unanimously in favor of
the proposal. Ralph Zlesemer, the sec
retary of the committee, appeared in
that capacity.
The mass meetings, proposed by the
central committee, will be held in
every precinct of the county. These
mass meetings will select delegates
to the county convention which was
given to Douglas after Tombstone had
been proposed by Mr. Gardner. At
1 ' ;
PROVES WASHINGTON'S UN PREPAREDNESS.
WASHINGTON, April IS. A
capital in which bombs were exploded alioveihe White House, the
capitol building, the war college and other government establish
ments, was carried out tonight by an aviatcr who scid he made the
flight to demonstrate the city's un preparedness. The attack was un
heralded, and the succession of sharp explosions and flashes of tire
startled hundred of people n the streets and brought a flood of in
quiries to White House oflicers and the police headquarters. The
bombs were harmless and were timed to explode about 1000 feet
In the air.
Attack Upon the Americans
At Parral Was Unprovoked
General Pershing , Reports on Incident to Funston. Forty
Mexicans and Two U. S.
Soldiers Were Entering Parral, Unarmed, in Order to Pur -
chase Supplies. We're Members of Tenth Cavalry.
(By Review Leased Wire.')
SAN ANTONIO, April 15. It was an
u-provoked attack" upon unarmed
J Parral merely to purchase supplie
that precipitated action between Mex-
.cans and Americans there, according
to an official reDort received tonight
from General Pershing. His report
was the first news that has been re-
Iceived of the incident, from the Amer-
:ican front.
.. . -- . , . ,
uenerai rersning sem nis report in
...-., , o. u .k
r.uupm - aie irum w.nu, v .....-. u.iu-
. , parrni i. annesred that he
. -r -
did not receive a report from the
troops yet in the vicinity or t'arral un-
til today and that upon its receipt ho
forwarded his report to General Funs-
ton immediately.
He said that a part ;
of ;l.e soldiers, leaving their arms at;Co:ner. who was reported to be mov-
;'he camp outside the town, entered to Ing into positions from which Tie might
j buy food. They were fired upon and. menace the line of communication.
re tested in the direction tif the camp. ;
Xhr. troops there moved forward to j
meet the Mexicans who were pursuing ,
.
withheld, for military reasons, that
part of the information relating to
what units were being moved and the:
exact disposition, although he
;en inai ne reearaeu ine oruers vjcm-r-.
' Pershing had issued as covering the-
.situation. i
. ,
General Funston did not regard Gen-
orol Po re ti . n i ronnrr ne n'ltnllv Kfltls-
----
factor', however, because or its or"i-,
ty. He sent him a message tonight.
3 .mnrv it nuickiv as
asking Htm to ainpilt.v 11 as quiCKiy as,
-v, ,,. t,..ir n th.
One cony of the renort was
"-"i
through Consul Letcher at Chihuahua ;
in ine riue 1 e)an mtriii 111 twit-, cms
was sent from Chiliuahua' over tne
con mercml wires in control of the
Mexican government. The Amercan
military has not been permitted to use
the wires for transmission or code
messages.
The duplicate was taken to Nami-Iuse
sent from Chihuahua' over the
COIIVEIITi
tne county convenuon which wi.,jire aIont? ,np trajl8 , tm,
take place April 29 thrtty-two dele-, believed to be now in the
gates will be selected to represent thei ..... . .. ....
county at the state convention, to be
hid in Tucson May 6. At Tucson six -
doioco.oc, -ed tv oitornatoa fnr .. :
national convention in Chicago and a;
national committeeman will be select
From the attitude of the central I
committee it would appear that Co -
,, . ... , ... . .
C.hise COltnty Will endorse ( harles A.
Overlook, of Douglas for delegate from !
this section to the national conven-;
ventlon. and M. K. I asstdy tor Na-, ,.f co n- unication w ill racilitate the
tional committeeman. Both men. it is irt.nsKoilation or supplies it is said,
rreely predicted, will leave the Doug- but officers of the quartermaster's de
las convention with the unqualified nnrtI1,pn ars unticipatins increased
8U?rtf ,he delp!ation- , ditTicullies as soon as the rains begin.
The Tucson convention may be
unique In the respect that it will be. I
in all nrnhahilitv the last state cn-1 GYMNASTS' TOUR POSTPONED.
vention ever held in the country. All
of the committeemen, who were in
the district yesterday prior to the
meeting, freely predicted that the Ke-
publican party, both In the nation and
state was preparing to nia'Ke a clean
sweep. 1
Submarine
: if.
theroretica. air mid on the national
Troopers were Killed in Affair.
-quipa ty aeroplane and from there
passed over the field wireless that Gen
err.l Perching Iip.s set from there to
his b.ne at Columbus.
General Pershing did not indicate in
his report that any fresh news as to
.the whereabouts of Villa had been re-
ceiveil although it is und'-rVtood he
told of the continued advance of cav-
airy detachments who are yet forcing
their wav along mountain trail,, in the
neighborhood of Parral.
. ..... ...... , . . .
a ie aucmimai nwps nave ueen
.... r-i. ..... k
, . ...,.,... v .u..,uun uu-
their add t on to those in Mex ro was
.
not due directly to the Parral incident.
it was occasionea ny tne reports oi
unexplained movements by the defacto
government troops, especially those
troops coi-msnded by General Amulfq
S-couting operation Momr rue line
were rout inner! !('',' 1 r-,-"",i'"'-
at messKifs to guard against attack
.
tween ihe Mexicans and American
troops.
Relief was evident at headquarters
intimat-itonisht. however, for even there rum-
o '. uc-i mucin Ui
troops had been wiped out, that the
Americans had occupied Parral, that
ithev hurl t snrmeri th entira nnnnln.
tion. that a Mexican force was chasing
eousllv wild wer ereceived
r?P"rts. equally wim, w er ereceived.
1:1 ,nP absence or authentic reports,
.-.
offtcers were beginning to betray un-
rain 1 noninvinir the attention nf nf-
fleers at headquarters, where no word 1
frpm Washington has arrived that in-'
dic:ies the .'.(lirjui-traiion desired any
Rltmtlon in tlie or(,Hrs that laced tne
nilnitive for,.P ln Mfxico. it is assum-
; .ow.evPr that if tbe further prose-1
j(..,;!on of eapaif:n aRain!it the
hnndil rrieftain is desired authority
b civpn fjPnera, r1K,on to make
o ti,e railroad to and beyond Chi-
hiiAhnn or lhat additional troons. eith-
er tne lew remaining regular troops or
militia, will be sent into his depart-
ment. It is understood that General
1 unston has r.ot'.ned tne war Depart-
ment that effective pursuit cannot be
carried on unless radical means are
taken to assist General Pershing, who
!s at. the extrene southern end of his
1 line oi communication from where de-
'tfr.?itrl rnliimn nf pm-glrr nr. nnpn.1.
' ' ' ." ... ,"T ,'. :
f' ,n wU,h a" nuy of hi- fol-.
" '?r8. if he had not already done so.
rh" rrral n'W't served to dem-
.onsira.e tne ciiii.-uity 01 .communica-
tion. ine w!ie i.euerai rersiiing nas
lal'J btihind him has been cut gcoies of
- ' " aT" I,,s equipment for wireless
Icoinnuinication is exceedingly limited,
' r(,in., , nrficin! rennrls .
Tie aiidiih.n of 8! auto trucks to
tiose already In service along the line
LONDON'
pril 1?. The projected
tour of America by Swedish amateur
athletes, savs a dispatch from Stock-
holm, has been postponed until after
the war. This action, it was said.
was taken because of the best ath-
letes now nre in military service.
Controversy
MEXICANS ARE
AND EXPEL
Circulars Posted in Magdalena :
District of Sonora Advo-I
cates Trouble for Carranza'
and United States.
ibv Review Leased Wire).
1 9?&nrn-M
j Mexicans to rise and aid in expelling!
the American troops from Mexican
soil, were posted recently in several !
localities in the Magdalena district of j
Sonota. according to an American phy-'
sician arriving here who is unwilling'
that Ills name should be used because
he intends to return to Mexico soon.
"American troops have crossed the.
border. All Mexicans are urged to
join in expelling the invaders of their)
country." is a free translation of this
i,6 the doctor "aid.
' . ln- nolltel r ueiieveu to nave
been posted by Villa sympathizers he
says, aituougu many Mexicans ao not
iIP8il, to pxor(, ,.mt resentment'
"esiiaie io express meir resentment:
ne(.ause tn Americans have entered.
' ... ..."
meir i-uuuirj. 11 is only ill a lew i
TO.aIitjes tnat m-feeling toward the!
Americans is exhibited.. The circular
romnrUes the chief evidence of this
feeling.
Not since the American troops cross-
( ed t
i 8Uit
J throi
the International boundary in pur-
of V ilia, has Douglas passed
through a day of such nervous tension
as today. When it liecame known this
' morning that som; nf th :r''l;t-irr or-J
eanizations stationed here had been
men. as though in preparation for im
mediate departure, numerous high
colored rumors were set afloat. The
least of these was that all of the
soldiers stationed here were to be
withdrawn. No troops left during the
day. A majority of the soldiers sta
tioned here were held in Camp- Harry
J. Jones, a mile east of Douglas, not
- ----- -
being allowed to leave the limits of
the camp.
1. . atotrt 1.10.1, mint,,.. ....
thority that even if a portion of the
iroops were rernovea, rrom nere,
enough would be left to protect the
city and adjacent district in any
event
The rumor vendors did hot pause in
the local field, but spread frightful
stories about preparations for Mexi
can raids. That several field guns,
screened from view from this side of
Mm anotner rumor, believed Dy many
but n b' the military was that
two fl1t K"ns nad Dwn discovered
hidden in the homes of Mexicans In
( riemevi .e. a suourn 01 one mite nort.i
of ,)ouIas-
Military and civil officers were kept
busy tracing these rumors to their
Rources ,fnd 'nvestigating, hut with-
out reHUlt:
i
! LUtOMUIIVt tAKLUUtS,
n.on
- "y- ...
k. ,.e,. am, ,wo o.ners scameu
today when a locomotive exploded.
NEW yoRK April 13 TI
- .,,.,,.,
he names
who are
,n rc,anize Ktate boards throughout
,.nllnlr. . ,,lavtf rnmnli cur.
vpv ,,f the Ameri.un manufacturine
and producing resources, as a first
Btep toward industrial preparedness.
were announced tonight by the com-
milt-, nn indi.strlnl nrpn.r.rin. nf
the naval consulting board. Theengi
neers have been appointed state direc-i
tors by Josephus Daniels, secretary of
the navy, arter being chosen by Ave j
engineering societies who have pledg-i
ed their membership of .10.000 to aid
. the movement. ;
; These organizations are the Amer-1
, ican Society of Civil Engineers, Ainer-
Iran Institute of Mining Engineers
American Society of Mechanical Enti-
neers; American lOHtttute or Elec-
trlcal Engineers and the American
Chemical Society,
The state directors who will serve
without pay and also become assistant I
members of the naval consulting
WARREN DISTRICT ENGINEERS .
on 1 1 1 1 nnimiii Tiiin n rt r o
mu un n rimmn j : u am
ui iiniriL UUIIUULIHIU uuniiu
! '
!iipiiiiiiip m t- . 1 1 -
r ML ML UIIUL'NII ML A
mLMIIMilL IUIIUUII Ul IILLtt
i WILL BE PUSHED UNI READ
i OF MEXICO CAN DANDLE CHASE
Co-operation of Carranza Troops is Regarded As the Best
Sign that No Actual Demand Has Been Made Upon the U.
S. for a Withdrawal of the Troops. Fresident Willing to
Fix a Limit As to Distance and Time of Expedition.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WA PH INCTON. April 13. President Wilson has decided to inform Gen
eial t'.-irranza. in response to his request for the withdrawal of the Ameri
can troops from Mexico, that the United States will negotiate for an agree
ment along these lines:
The I'nited States government is willing to agree to fix a'limil on the
distance American troops, now in pursuit of Villa, shall proceed into Mexico
and to make that limit not much further south than the troops already have
proceeded. f
' The United States government is willing to give assurances that the
An erican troops will be withdrawn within "a reasonable time" oa as soon as
'it is definitely established that Villa
dealt with better by tbe Carranza forces.
These points, it became kiown tonight, were discussed fully at yester
day's cabinet meeting. The President's advisors are said to have given aucb
n course in the belief that it would ma'ce stronaer Ihe chances of catching
Villa. A reply to General Carranza is said to be vxirtually complete and is
expected to go forward in a very short time.
Meantime the pursuit of Villa by the American troops will continue.
Secretary Baker sharply outlined this today, in a formal statement: . "The
tatus of the expedition into Mexico is as it mas at the beginning, in cordial
co-operation with the defacto government of Mexico," be said. "That co
operation continues and the expedition continues. There have been no
changes in the orders and none Is in contemplation."
Secretary Baker and other officials
CAN NOT CHANGE THE
1 nniTinno nr niiiifv,ia,'on8 for an r,"'n, i!h ,n
I IlliA I !IIN Mr Kd Nl ; r;" t government will be conducted
LUUrt I lUllU Ul UHnaOWj,h tR, idea ,hal ..h an reeKiem
would strengthen Carranza at home.
A it. r . -and at the same time make ihe tak
Attorney General Gregory to ;of catcninK Vii.a easier.
Give Opinion On Matter of j The lines- of communicrtion or the
Federal Reserve Board. j An'"'-" "P i.win viiu ai-
, rPaijy navp eon lengthened to the
j point where sending supplies has be
- -. (By Review Lrasco Wirt.) I.n. .r?..-J. , a.t- it . resized tx-t
AsHINicTON, April !.-. Attorney
ory today held that the
board has no author i -
e location of a federal
reserve bank. His opinion submitted
in response to a request from the ' General Pershing for three days. Gen
board, also held that there is nothing ! era! Fun-Ion added t!iat he was tryir.c
in the law to prevent reduction of to obtain from the front an authentic
the capital of reserve banks, lixcd at report of what had occurred at Parral
$4,000,000 on organization by the of- where American troops wers fired oa
fer of membe rs of banks from one ; Wednesday by Mexican civilians,
district to another. j
The
attorney general's opinion,'.
which was not made public, is under-j COU MI5I S. April 15. Military rw
stood to hold that inasmuch as the . nortc. ri.actiln- Column.. tnniot" i'l
law provides that the charters issiel
I to existing reserve banks shall run
(or a period of twenty years, a bank
location could not be changed wiihout
torrelting or its clurter. whicn is not . ,(,.!, na,i puzzled inteMiseme m
pcrmitted by law. eers. was local, d today but nothing
Official designation of reserve banky j contained in the dispatches wa leveal
by the name of the cities in which led other than the Mexican forces arv
they are located, is cited as one rea not adun'i:u in Biich a way aj mii;ht
son why the pow er or relocation does : menace the supply unite.
lot rest with the board. It would bej it was admitted here that all pre
impossible, the attorney is said to j t-autionur) steps ordered by General
have held, to tran.'-fer a batik without ' Funston to guard the line and meet
changing its name which would re- any eventuality have been taken tand
quire that the bankers charier be for- d-.-ta. him-nts at Boca Grande. Kspia
telted and charter to its successor is- and Asrension hae been reinforced,
sued. Otherwise, already the name ! a new ;,uo:a r rumors that a truck
would be the same in which case train had been tired upon noita 0'
the Richmond ' bank, tor instance, al- . rasas Grande was discredited gen
though located in Daltimore, still erally.
would be ollicially the tederal reserve Hut the increasing confidence else-
bank of Richmond.
DANISH STEAMER CAPTURED
COPENHAGEN, via tandon. April
!15. The Danish steamer Kasan, bound
irrom Liverpool ror Copenhagen, was
I. ant.ire.1 trwlav in th. Client hv a
ilarge German "submai ine. according to
'the newsnmier I'olitken. Ihe siibmnrina
"'..""Z-
- ... 1, u ....
Iwl.
, board, of
whii-h ThntiiAS K.lisnn i.s
' chairman.
They are Instructed to or-
ganize as speedily as possible and he-,
gin an inventory of manufacturing
and other industries that could be uti-.
lized in case of war. This work will REPORT U. S. WITHDRAWING.
Ie done under the direction of W. S. MEXICO CITY. April 15 The state
Ciffird. supervising director of the ' ment is printed here and is ;iven crvd-
commission.
! Following in part are the names of
the directors of the various states: .
j Arizona J. B. (.Irani. 1 'hoenlx; ,
Jonn l. t.reenway. A. u. .Mcuregor. 1
Warren; David W. Jones, Clifton; P-1
N. Guild. Tucson. j
Colorado-11. S. Crocker D A. t
Brunton, T. B. Stearns, U. B. Moore.
IVnver; W . S. Aldncli. Ft. oil na. ;
Texas John B. Ilawley. Ft. north; ... .. . '' . , ...
Arthur J. M. Cuatters. Kl Paso: W. , tt.on of the I mted Mates to with
Kan. B. Tuttle. San Antonio; Fred A. ' d" Harrd that the internaticnal
Jonef. Dallas; Geo W. Grav. Housfon. rmU n1 Pr "' that the
New Mexico-O. II. R turner. Ha r,ll"d Jt,e hs ",or ',0n
ton; Stephen Anders. J. L. Bretine-1 friendship and its desire not to
man. J. D. Clark. Alzuquerque; U J.
Charles, Elephant Butte. i
has reached a point where he can be
laid stress on the fact that the co-oper
afion of Carranza troops was regarded
as an important element, and the nego
that it w.mid be ex'rerrel.v iiaxjitiou.-i
j for them to go much farther.
f No military dispatches were given
j out today except one from General
Fun-Mon saving he hed not heard from
ACTIVITY ON BORDER
of great activity along the Ai-.iiricin
line of V-oiii' luc.lrauon b.-:v.eeu here
Kml C;:as tlrantles. General Arnuifo
: (Jomez' coimuand. the whereabout,, ef
where crouxhl no relaxation in the
precaiitionary nieasures at the base.
Si ldiers were under outers to be
prepared to move south at a itior.ient's
notice and a heavy gjrd was main
tained. I Trucks, with drivers, stood In re.1l-
to carrv. tr,HPs l"- r'v
inrfaiene.i ptinn.
For the first time in several duys
conlmlluUi,tUnf, ww m.riveJ hr,
fc , , f ,
Gershing. but while the contents of
! the mes.-a-je were not revealed here,
! it was indicated that they did not
i contain an otlu ial versicu of the clash
; between A merit an troops and Mei
cans at l'arral tast Wednesday.
Quartemias'.er s report here in!i."at
ed that the hardships which some of
1 the advanced expeditionary detach
j ments have accepted as a result of an
'inability to obtain ..uppli.-s have been
overcome ami mat an 01 ine troops
""' nl' ." provided amply
"h tm.1 and equipment.
ence bv the Mexican iteople that the
; i nited Sla.es has announced its in
tention of withdrawing the troops now
pursuing Villa. High officials of the
j;oveminent today expressed ereat
pleasure over this." but neither ".enT.il
iarriUlza m)r anv' of his Immediate
fn ,,, ansm:pr 0ni iallv
Tnp ne,pap.r!l. hocver. base
,hpir ,.,' .., nno,inr, ,.
violate tne sovereignty or injure tne
Continued on Tage Six.)
