First
Maui County Fairl
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1916.
NUMBER 26
Kahului Breakwater
Money Is Available
president Has Signed Appropriation
Bill Which Carries Over Quarter
Million For Big Improvement
Work Likely To Start Soon
Mail advices reaching here
from Washington this week
state that President Wilson
signed the Rivers and Harbors
appropriation bill on Thursday,
July 7, carrying with it the item
of $260,000 for Kahului harbor.
Of this amount $250,000 is for
the west wing breakwater of the
harbor, and $10,000 is for maint
enance. The sum of $100,000 is
made available at once, but Col.
R. R. Raymond, U. S. engineer
officer of the district is given
authority by the bill to contract
for additional $150,000 worth of
work, so that the contract for
the breakwater may be let as a
whole.. It is anticipated that
steps will be taken by the
engineer to advertise for bids
for the work at once.
Goodness And Waiaholo
Aspire To Be Senators
County Attorney Kaae spent several
days last week on Molokal entering
the names of new voters to the great
register. He reports fourty-two new
voters In the Settlement alone, the big
proportion of whom have become
residents of the place from the Hama
kua district, Hawaii. This week the
Clerk visited different sections of the
Lahaina district, and next Tuesday he
will go to Hana. Indications thus for
are that the Increase In Maui voters
will somewhate exceed the loss by
deaths and removals.
Three Out for Senate
Thus far three candidates have
taken out nomination papers indicat
ing their intention to try for one of
the two places in the upper house of
the legislature which are to be filled
this fall.' Senator W. T. Robinson is
the hold over member of the senate.
Col. H. A. Baldwin is candidate to
succeed himself, while P. J. Goodness,
of'Wailuku, and Ed. Waiaholo, of
Lahaina, late members of the house
representatives, would hereafter grace
the senate chamber. It is reportd
that W. F. Pogue may be a candidate
for representative, though he has not
yet taken secured the blanks for his
nomination from the clerk.
Sam Kuula, long-time democratic
candidate for public honors has desert
ed the Bourbon ranks and is this year
making the race for the legislature
as a republican.
A. F. Tavares ,of Paia, is again a
candidate for the house of represent
atives, while John Brown, Jr., former
district magistrate of Lahaina ,1b also
having a nomination petition signed.
The democrats have taken out eight
nomination papers, but thus far have
not indicated any of the victims who
will represent the Maul democracy in
the big race.
Haiku Teacher To Be
Witness In Bomb Case
Herbert Wade, principal of the Hai
ku school at Pauwela, will be an im
portant witness for the state in the
prosecution of the suspected perpet
rators of the dynamite bomb outrage
In San Francisco on July 22, in which
a number of persons lost their lives
and many were injured. Wade was
bumped into by a man with a suitcase
which is believed to have contained
the explosive, juBt a few minutes be
fore the explosion occurred. The dis
trict attorney of San Francisco has
written the school department asking
that the Maui school teacher be per
mitted to attend the hearing which
will probably take p"ace soon. Wade
was stopping at the Young Hotel, Hon
olulu, the first of the week.
FASSOTH WILL NOT
BE CANDIDATE
John Fassoth, manager of the Kipa-hui'-u
Plantation, returned on Tuesday
from a trip to Honolulu. Mr. Fassoth,
who was a member of the last legis
lature from Kauai, is quoted by a Hon
olulu paper as stating that he will not
seek similar honors from the Maui e
lectorate this year.
SCARCITY OF BAIT SPOILS
FISHING EXCURSION
Delegate Kuhio, II. W. Shingle, pres
ident of the Henry Waterhouse Trust
Company, and H. Gooding Field, made
a trip to Lahaina on Tuesday for the
purpose of enjoying a day or two of
game finning. Dearth of aku or other
suitable bait in the markets put the
u-ip out of business and the pait
turned the same evening with nothing
to show for-their pains.
Maui Teams Win All
Harvest Home Sports
Throngs Of Visitors Enjoy Hospitality
Of II. C. & S. Men And Good
Athletic Events Honolulu Teams
Fail To Take Any Laurels
For the first time in a good many
years the visiting athletic teams from
Honolulu competing in the Puunene
Harvest Home games, went back to
the ciiy with no laurels of victories
won. . It Is true that some of (he best
players of both the bowling and the
tennis teams from Honolulu were un
able to make the trip this year. But
it is also true that the Maui athletes
did some good work, and would hav
made it mighty interesting in any
event.
The Harvest Home celebration of
the Hawa'lan Commercial & Sugar
Company this year is conceded by all
of the many hundred guests to have
eclipsed all previous efforts in many
ways. It is certain that the hospitality
ty of the big company through its
officers and employes was never more
pleasingly accorded than it was last
Saturday. No pains had been spared
in making the Puunene Club House
and grounds attractive with beauti
ful decorations. A large arbor, or out
side lanai formed an attractive place
in which the delicious lunch was serv
ed at noon time to the many guests
who had gathered to see the morning
sports. In the evening this . same
floral shelter afforded a pleasant re
treat in which dainty refreshments
were partaken of between the dance
numbers. The ball, by the way, was
the opening dance In the Puunene
Club's new club house, and the per
fect floor and attractive furnishings
of the building were greatly appreci
ated.
Honolulu Well Represented
Besides the members of the athletic
teams, quite a large number of Hono
lulu visitors were present, having ar
rived by the Claudine and Manoa,
both of which reached port early Sat
urday morning. The sailing of the Ma
noa for Honolulu on Sunday permit
ted the visitors to enjoy the dance on
Saturday night to the end.
Three Teams Win Tennis
But three of the eight Honolulu
teams won their games, all the others
losing by heavy scores. The total
score for the day Is given as 122 to
men on whom much had been counted
meb on whom much had been counted
by Honolulu, were unable to come,
which possibly accounts for the poor
general showing. Lowrey and Hen
noch, Nowell and Cunha, and Rice and
Macfarlane were the three teams that
made good for the visitors.
Local Bowlers Win
In the bowling an even worse de
feat was administered by the local
knights of the pin to their Honolulu
competitors. Here again, however,
the Honolulu team was unfortunate in
being shy Scott and Clark, two of
their most reliable rollers. Maul won
the three games by a total of 453 pins
more than their rivals.
(continued on page 2).
a-
Lost Money Through
Paia Arouses Interest
The reported shortage of foreign
money order funds totaling $1750,
which passed through the Paia post
offlce destined for Japan, is the source
of much speculation . The matter was
brought to light by complaints of Jap
anse of Maui to their consul in Hono
lulu. The post office inspectors in
Honolulu profess not to have been ab
le as yet to fix responsibility on any
person as yet, but are awaiting the re
turn of Postmaster Morris K. Keoho
koleie, who attended the democratic
national convntion in St. Louis, and
has not yet returned. National Com
mitteman J. H. Wilson is reported to
have stated that ho does not know
Keohokolele's present whereabouts.
The remittances all disappeared be
tween July and November of last year,
according to the Japanese consul.
-U-
PAIA PASTOR TO TAKE VACATION
The Rev. A. Craig Bowilish, pastor
of the Makawao Union Church, accom
panied by his wife, will leave Saturday
of next week by the Lurline for a sev
eral months' vacation, during the time
that the construction of the new Bald
win memorial church is in progress.
They will probably return about
Christmas time.
-u
THE FIRST MAUI COUNTY FAIR
will be a success, but it will be a big
ger success if YOU do your part.
RE-ELECTED PASTOR OF
KAAHUMANU CHURCH
At a meeting of delegates represent
ing the Hawaiian congregations of
Wailuku, Waihee, Waikapu, and of
Camp 1, held last Sunday afternoon,
the Rev. L. B. Kaumeheiwa was re
elected pastor of the Kaahumanu
Church. His opponent was the Rev.
Isaac 1). Iaea, of Molokai. Kaumehe
iwa received 14 votes; Iaea, 4; and
2 blank ballots wore cast .
Alexander House To
Enlarge Its Scope
Land Bought For Outdoor Games
Two Tennis Courts A Feature
DistrictNurseToLook After Welfare
Of Paia Camp Residents
Karl L. Corson, of Columbus, Ohio,
who has been engaged by the Alex
ander House Settlement to take
charge of the boys' work departments.
Is expected to arrive next, week by
the Lurline. He will have the direc
tion of all lines of work in which boys
are interested, including charge of the
gymnasium and playground. Mr. Cor
son corueg very highly recommended.
For some years ho was in charge of
similar work in the Ray State Club,
an organization of South Ashbuniham,
Mass. similar in scope to that of the
Alexander House.
District Nurse Department
Broadening its field and the charact
er of its work, the Alexander House
Settlement, will inaugurate a system
of district nursing on September 1.
The first nurse who has been engaged
is Miss Anna Sylva, a trained nurse or
excellent qualifications, who was form
erly connected with the Lahaina Hosp
ital, and her field of effort will be in
and around 1he Paia camps. Under
standing and speaking both Spanish
and Portuguese fluently, it is expected
that she will be able to accomplish a
great deal in bettering conditions
especially among these two national
ities. If the experiment turns out as
is hoped, it is likely that other nurses
wi'l be added for othe districts.
More Land Acquired
Through the purhcase from A. G.
Dickens of 3-10 of an acre of land al
most directly across the street from
the Settlement, the institution has
secured room for two fine tennis
courts, a hand-ball ' court, and a
croquet ground. There has long been
a recognized need for an out-of-doors
yard for such sports, which the ac
quisition of the Dickins property will
fill. Work will begin in fitting up the
lot for its new purposes probably next
week, and it will be ready for use
within a few weeks.
It is understood that the Association
paid Mr. Dickins $1,000 for his proper
ty. Will Lay Corner Stone Of
New Church On Sunday
The corner-stone of the new Maka
wao Union Church "The Henry Per
rlne Baldwin Memorial Church" as it
will be known, will be laid on Sunday
morning, August, 20, at the time of the
regular church service. The ceremony
will be conducted by the minister, the
Rev. A. Craig Bowdish, assisted by
the Rev. R. B. Dodge, who will make
an address. The actual placing of the
handsome stone which is to support
the corner of the beautiful edifice,
will be assisted in by the Hon. II. A.
Baldwin.
A duet will be sung by Mrs. L. C.
Jones and Mr. H. Washburn Balwdin
and two anthems will be rendered by
the Molokai choir, the members of
which are at present on Maui. The
congregation, which is expected to be
unusually large, will participate in a
number of hymns and responsive
readings.
Would-Be Assassin Con
fesses Dastardly Crime
Joseph Elizado, a Filipino employe
of the American Can Company, at Hal.
ku, is in jail in Wailuku, awaiting the
results of a bullet wound in the neck
and back of a fellow countryman nam
ed Paatol, who is now in the Paia
Hospital. The police say that Elizado
has confessed to having fired the shot.
The prisoner is alleged to have
marked a spot on the outside wall of
the building in which Pastol slept, and
late Sunday night to have slipped up
to this place and fired a bullet through
the board at the point where the mark
had been made. Pastol was asleep on
the other side of the wall, and the
bullet struck him in the neck .ranging
downward and lodging back of the
lung. The fact that the wounded man
had had a quarrel led to Elizado's
being suspected of being the would be
assassin. After a number of persons
had been found who had seen him
with the revolver, he made full con
fession. PROMINENT VISITORS SEE
HALEAKALA
H. H. Walker, of the Hawaiian
Trust Company, Hono'ulu, Dr. Charles
E. Davis, of Albany, N. Y bis step
son, Henry A. P. Carter, and his sons
Charles and Arthur Davis, formed a
party which made the ascent of Hale
akala. They report a delightful trip.
Mr. Carter is son of the brother of Geo.
R. Carter who was killed during the
revolution shortly before annexation.
Board Revises List
Of MaujTeachers
School To Begin On September 11
Slight Changes In Course Of Study
Commissioners Refuse To Rein
state Browns Of Kauai
Practically all school appointments
were made by the territorial board of
school commissioners before the board
adjourned on Tuesday, until its regu
lar met ting early in December when it
will take up for consideration the
school budget which will be presented
to the next legislature sitting in Feb
ruary, 1917.
A number of changes were made,
several teachers exchanging positions
at their request, with the consent of
th commissioners . There are still a
number of appointments to be made,
and Superintendent. Kinney was auth
orized (o make these appointments ar
ter corsultation with the commission
ers of the school district affected.
Tiie course of study committee,
throimli Inspector General of Schools
Raymond made its report. Only sl'ght
change were recommended, these be
i:ig pr.i t'cularly in arithmetic and geo
graphy. The report was adopted.
Blacksmith Wanted
Superintendent Kinney is now grap
pling with a peculiar problem. The
board wants to secure the services of
a good blacksmith ,who in addition, is
a capable upper-grade teacher, for La
hainaluna. Williard S. Terry, at one
time principal of the Ililo Boarding
School on the Big Island and a prom
inent coffee planter and mill owner
has been suggested.
Browns Lose Again
Alter devoting one fuM day to con
sideration of the protest of Mr. and
Mrs. IT. C. Brown, formerly principal
and teacher respectively in the Wai
mea (Kauai) school, the commission
ers voted to stand by their former act
ion in not appointing them to any pos
itions. Tho Browns were represented
at the hearing by an attorney, and the
evidence of many . witnesses was
taken.
School Opens September 11
The fall term will open on Monday,
Sept. 11, or 3 weeks from next Mon
day. The list of teachers for Maul ,as re
vised by the commissioners, is given
below with the exception of a number
of cases in which contrasts have not
yet beon signed . With a few except
ions, however, the board made the
Maui r.ppointments complete before
adjourning.
Appointmnts Made
MAUI HIGH -
ITT C Tt
v. o. urnunii
Miss M. J. Couch
Miss Mary Barton
Miss Blanche Mast
Mtas Grace Byrnes
Select: Miss A. M. Karrer
KAHAKULOA
W. K. Hoopii
HONOKOHAU
Mrs. S. B. Harry
HONOKOHUA
Mrs. Catherine Cockett
IIONOKOWAI
Mrs. Rowena K. Hose
riTUKOLII
O. W. Hennig
Miss Gertrude Buchanan
KAMEHAMEHA III
B. O. Wist
Miss Ethel Tomlinson
Miss Annie P. Chung
Miss Hisayo Hiroshima
Ms Tsu'an V. Choy
Mrs. Mary A. Lee
Mrs. Rose Mooldni
Miss Florence E. Whitton
Miss Clare Stevenson
Mrs. Lucy K. Furtado
Miss Mae Dunn
Abel Makekau
OLOWALU
KIHEI
J. Putrlck Cockett
Mrs. J. P. Cockett
WAIKAPU
Miss Leilani Weight
WAILUKU
Mis9 Lida Crickard
Mrs. Kate L. McKay
Miss Lucy Richardson
Mrs. Edith Wilmington
Mrs. Carolyn S. Weight
Mrs. A. V. Crockett
Mis. Mary II. Cockett
Miss Kathleen M alloy
(Continued on page 3)
Dickey Will Plan Two
New Maui Residences
Before leaving for the coast last
week .Architect C. W. Dickey, of Berk
eley, was commissioned to prepare
plans for two handsome new Maui res
idence:! one a colonial or Italian style
vi'la for Col. H. A. Baldwin, to be
built iu upper Paia, and the other a
bungalow type of dwelling for Dr. W.
D. Baldwin which will replace the pre
sent Baldwin home at Haiku. A Hon
olulu paper is authority for the state
ment that Mr. Dickey will also make
plans lor the new $25,000 Maui High
school building, which is to be in a
large part built from money given by
the Rices and Baldwins
WILSON MAY NOT AVERT
BIG RAILROAD STRIKE
Issue Still Threatens And Neither Side Will Yield -Fighting
Of Week In Europe Furious On All
Fronts Little Apparent Gain For Either Side
i
Honolulu Aug. 18 Enemy prisoner of war released for pood con
duct. Austrian man and woman passing through Honolulu tell of their
detention in Sydney. Received excellent treatment in camp, but others
who were refractory ,or who tried to escape did not fare as well. They
are on their way to Austria via the United States.
Spreckels interests ask $12,500 on Opera House holdings. Int
erest covers one quarter of site making cost of Federal government site
?50,000.
Ordinance seeks to put t':eth in dance-hall rules . Inspectors ask
t-upcrvisors to extend their power.
Sale of liquor may Le denied big hotels. Drinking and ragging de
clared bad exatnole for young people.
Walter F. Frear reaches Sydney. Received cordial welcome as
former governor of Hawaii.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18 Washington appeals to financiers to a
vert threatened strike. Railroad managers .backed by presidents of lines,
flatly refuse to accept his proposition to prevent industrial disaster. An
other conference today at White House. Should this fail, Wilson will
call upon money interests to help him save situation.
PEKING, Aug. 18 Officials here blame Japan for clash of troops.
Weajxm peddling was the cause. Declared Japanese resisted lawful or
der of Chinese government officers.
PARIS, Aug. 18 Hard fighting at all fronts with minor results.
British and French succeed in wresting additional trenches from Germ
ans defending Teuton positions on the Somme.
Russians checked for the time being on eastern theater of war by
heavy counter attack launched against them by Germans.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18 Health officers tackle paralysis. Meet
in this city to discuss disease and to ask for congressional help.
NEW YORK, Aug.lS Threat of street car men in Gotham to
strike for recognition of their union ,is dwindling. Little fear that these
(men will quit work.
MANILA, Aug. 18 United States goods seized in British port.
Hongkong authorities hold up big cargo.
ROSEBURG, Oregcm, Aug. 18 Hughes talks on need for more
dominant Americanism. 4 .
COPENHAGEN, Aug. 18 People of Denmark favor sale of Dan
ish West Indies to United States. Officials reported to wish to postpone
proposed plebiscite until after war.
BOSTON, Aug. 18 Steamer Sachem arriving today believes she
sighted submarine Deutschland on her homeward journey. Seeing what
she thought was hull of a dismasted vessel ,she turned about to give
aid when the craft promptlysubmerged.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 Strike situation still critical. Rumor
ed that railroads have rejected plan to grant 8 hour day.
Puget Sound chosen for building ground for big battle ships. All
disputed items cleared up .
San Francisco cannery heads are reticent on combination. Main
land dispatch says big merger is being engineered by canning houses.
Hawaiian Pineapple Company mentioned. James D. Dole will neither
affirm nor deny but classes it as a rumor.
LONDON, Aug. 17 Heavy fighting progressing along Balkans'
front with Allies taking the offensive . Dispatch tells of strong infantry
attacks thrown back after fierce fighting, but battle is still raging at
Lake Doiran with result still in doubt.
ROME, Aug. 17 Advance along lower Isonzo being held back a
waiting straightening out of line by capture of mountain range in St.
Gabriel San Marino and other positions between Talmino and Gorizia.
Capture of these places seems imminent. Austrians being slowly driven
from Carso plateau. Enemy fighting desjerately.
LONDON, Aug. 17 Fierce fighting still going on along Somme
front. British made substantial g.V.ns west and southwest of Guillemont,
and in conjunction with French are advancing on Maumiles. West of
Ilighwood a section of German trenches 300 yards wide and 300 yards
deep captured after fierce hand to hand flighting . Enemy contested ev
ery fot stubbornly.
PETROGRAD, Aug. 17 Counter-attack on Slav line repulsed.
BERLIN, Aug. 17 Allies repulsed in west along entire Somme
front.
HONOLULU, Aug. 17 Believed Prince will ask to be named
guardian. His counsel intimates this may be ne::t move in fight to
break Queen's trust.. Liliuokalani's sanity must be decided first. If
held she is competent, suit is at an end, is contention of her attorneys.
Warship idea quickly wins warm support. Mayor Lane will draw
up resolution. Ciiizen organizations and individuals will lend influence.
HONOLULU, Aug. 17 New warship may be named Hawaii.
Princess Kawannnakoa in Washington sends petition to Secretary of
Jsavy and is graciously received at the Capitol .
Merchants reject bond proposition. Chamber of commerce declines
to approve plans to raise $750,000 for improvements. Spirited dis
cussion brings decisive vote . Adverse report by committee on county
and municipal affairs sustained by membership .
Harbor commission favors recreation pier for Honolulu. Board
authorizes superintendent of public works to develop great scheme.
Auditorium will be a feature of the big project. The territory will
control enterprise and plan is to benefit all classes .
PARIS, Aug. 17 All Euroiean battle fronts are in flames with
Allies gaining. 'Fighting suddenly shifts in intensity from east to west
where Entente forces are making another tremendous thrust at German
line, while Balkans flare vividly. Italians press Austria.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 Strike situation still deadlocked over
main issues . Result of negotiations between managers and employees
depends upon President. Both sides mark time while members of big
committee assemble in Washington.
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 17 Great merger of packers is being
formed to economize. Hawaiian Pineapple Company reported to be
negotiating to combine with immense coast interests to centralize dis
tribution. Alaska salmon plants, California Fruit Canners association,
Central California Canneries Company and Balfour Guthrie & Company,
shipping agents are included in deal .
(Continued on Page Four.)
