;
Uriiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II NO. 290
lemming
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, AUGrUST 18, 191G.
ConniaiiT, 1010, nr Tnc rcm.io Lemur Coirim.
PRICE OOT OHNT
TFINANCIAL EDITION
ISLAVS MENACE
HUNGARYAGAIN;
RENEW ATTACK
fprive Through Jablo-
nitza Pass Gams Fresh
Momentum
CAPTURE VILLAGES;
REPULSE ATTACKS
French Renew Operations
on Front Northeast of
Verdun Fortress
CLEAR FLEURY OF ENEMY
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined for Quick Reading
IEnst front The Russians,
temporarily halted in their
drivo on Lcmbcrg, have resumed of
fensive operations on tho Carpa
thians, again threatening an early
invasion of Hungary. Turkish
troops have reinforced Bothmcr'a
2 West front French clear
Floury, on Verdun front, of
foe. British parry counter-blows of
foe at six points in, Picardy. Berlin
records repulsing British nt Po
zicrcs 3 Italian front Only artillery
actions on tho Isonzo front
were announced last night by the
Italian War Office. Unofficially it
is learned that General Cadorna
strives to clear tho heights north
and cast of Gorizia before resuming
his drivo on Trieste.
4 Balkan front Teutonic
troops havo captured Fio
rina, over tho Greek border.
PETHOGRAD, Aug. 18. Threatening an
early Invaslpn of Hungary, tho Russians
have pressed forward In tho Jablonttza Pass
region nnd are approaching tho summits
of the.mountalns In tho region of Koromezo,
Hungary. It was officially announced today.
Capturo of tho villages of Lyslco and
SUry, southwest of Stanlslau and west of
th Zlota Blstrltza River, and of a series
of heights In the direction of Arzeluz was
saIio announced.
'' Koromezo lies at the southern end of the
Jablonttza pass, ono of the most Important
'fiteways leading Into tho plains of Hun
gary. The capture of the village of Jab
Icnltza at tho northern entrance to tho pass
rknd on tho railway leading Into Hungary
from Stanlslau was officially announced a
Sew days ago.
The War Office, however, admitted that
the Austro-Germans hav.o temporarily
5 Urratf1 lh. Infflntlva frntvi ttiA Qlnvu In tlin
wzzi :::.:::rv" "" "-'"..:
uuuu souuieuHt ui xiemoerg. ino enemy
sjresumed tho offensive west of Podhajco, 50
Ipnlles northeast of Stanlslau, but was re-
"pulsed, suffering heavy losses.
Dispatches from tho front state that there
?1j no slackening In the Russian pressure,
i ana it is oeuevea tnat tne Austro-ucrman
IjVrall must finally crumble before tho con
tinuous and Impetuous attacks of the
Russian soldiers.
Gigantic artillery duels are In progress on
ghrany sectors between tho Baltlo and tho
Carpathians.
Activity along the Dvlna and north of
Baranovltch Indicate that General Ruszky,
Sth new commander-in-chief of Uhe northern
Eiroup of Russian armies, is losing no time
Ija hw preparations for an offensive. Masses
0f fresh troops, guns and ammunition are
moving to that section of the Russian front
It la believed that a new and gigantic en
terprise will shortly be under way, with
the two main army groups of General
SRuszky and General Brusslloff attacking
simultaneously to prevent the Germans from
t shifting and massing troops.
Aerial activity Is becoming greater, and
many battles are being fought dally between
(Herman and Russian aviators. The Ger
imana have concentrated many war planes
and Zeppelins on tho eastern front with the
evident Intention of carrying out systematic
omtiardments of railways and military
Establishments behind the Russian front,
Which has been one of tho main factors In
IJsadtnp to the unusual sky activity.
BERLIN. Aug. 18.
MTurklsh troops, rushed Into Galicla to
ttlnforce the Austro-Oerman armies, have
Mn In action on General Bothmer's front
?r the first time, it was officially announced
la afternoon. They repulsed Russian at
tacks.
ill the Carpathians the Germans have
Kda further progress near Staraobczyna
PVERFDL FRENCH ATTACK
CLEARS GERMANS FROM POST
FLEUIlY N VERDUN LINE
PATUfl. Ana- 1
fBy a TmWArftil attaMr -.-. V, ,... I.--.,
mil ' - - nt . w U9 JiUJ UICAfl(
IgoPi of Verdun last night the French com-
Continued eq Tata Two, Column Oo
THE WEATHER
fe.Fdr ni,'l.i.i- i ....
m?V fair and continued moderately
KHftSr humidttVi liffht, easterly
..
fan J ""UI U1T 11AI,
y5 EST - g I m Mooa ri 9:2s p.m.
Oll all ft 9 n I irnnn !.. PIT -
wp ift . WVVM Ui WW 4U
OEL4WABB BIYEB TIDE CHANCES,
CHESTNUT STREET
ter Bse-la m. I Hlt water 8 JO p. to.
Water Wtfttp ja,
Kr
JtSU'JPlATCBE AT EACH IIOUB.
Mipt Tins
TfaT"3
iT&
-2Q3IIjiro3
VANGUARD OP P. 0.
I I ! Ill I I - - " - - - I '
The seventh annual encampment of tho First Regiment Pennsylvania
Reserves, Patriotic Order Sons of America, opens tomorrow and lasts
through next week, when the fiftieth annual convention and golden
jubilee of the society will be celebrated. Tho photograph shows Major
Oliver S. Lutz, regimental quartermaster, at the right, and Sergeant
H. Mosely.
SERUM INJECTION
IN BABY PLAGUE
"EXPERIMENTAL"
Noted Student of Disease
Says Treatemtn Is Not
Positive Prevention
DOCTOR DIXON AGREES
Infantile Paralysis
In 24 Hours to 2 P. M.
Deaths in Philadelphia since
midnight 3
Now cases in Philadelphia
since midnight 3
New cases in New York 121
Deaths in New York 32
New cases in Pennsylvania. ... 12
New cases in New Jersey C2
The purely experimental v nature of
treatment of Infantile paralysis by Injection
of human blood serum was shown today
by State Health Commissioner Dixon, who
Issued a statement by Dr. Robert "W. Levett,
of Boston, professor of orthopcdlo surgery
at Harvard, one of the most noted students
of Infantile paralysis.
This statement. Doctor Dixon said, repre
sents hrs views on Injection of blood serum.
Closing of the Sunday schobls, In compli
ance with tho request of Health Director
Krusen, may be only u forerunner of similar
action In the case of the publlo BChooIs.
The health authorities have already de
cided that It Is unwise to bring children
tosether In great groups, and hae dis
couraged or forbidden it whereer they
could.
A conference will bo held early In Sep
tember between officials of tho public
schools and tho local Department of Health
and Charities at which a decision will be
made as to whether the schools shall open
on September 8, the usual date, or whether
the summer vacation season shall be ex.
tended.
Three more deaths and three new cases
of Infantile paralysis reported today in
creased the record to 67 deaths and 253
cases in Philadelphia. Across the river, In
Camden, the plague gained a new foothold,
surpassing the sweep of the epidemic In
this city. Five deaths and pine new cases
occurred in the New Jersey town, which Is
adopting rigid measures to ward off the
disease.
Deaths today:
MARY COPESTICK, years old, 6030
Magnolia tstreet
DANIBli FBRNBEIia, 19 months old,
1347 South Second street.
PHILIP GORELLI, 22 months old, 1521
South Tenth street.
New cases today:
HENRY SCHWAB. 8 years old, 510 West
moreland Btreet.
MARY MASI, 14 months old, 837 Chris
tian street.
MARGARET ADAMS. 1 months old, 3546
North Watts street
With J 9 new cases yesterday and 6 deaths
the infantile paralysis toll kept right up
to its standard of (he day efore, and tho
i j i !
Castlaoeil a 3?sa XI. Criiiwa TUo
S. OF A. ARRIVES
MAYOR RETURNS;
CALLS 4 POLICE
HEADS TO FRONT
City Hall Agog With Rumor
Conference Preludes Ten
; derloin Clean-up
'FIRE IN HIS EYE" IS TIP
Mayor Smith returned a afternoon
from a four day's sojourn uc Atlantic City,
and Immediately upon his nrrlval summoned
four police heads for a conference In his
prlvnto offlce. Humors were rlfo in City
Hall that tho Mayor hid been goaded Into
actUlty by political expediency and had
called In the police ofllclals as a preliminary
step townrd making good his pledge to
"clean up" -vice in Philadelphia.
Theofflclals called -were Harry C. Davis,
Acting Director of Public Safety; Superint
endent James Robinson, Captain Nicholas
Kenny and Charles Lee, head of the ilce
squad. After the men had been closeted
with the Mayor about 10 minutes. Lee
camo Into the corridor and waited, liat In
hand, as If ho expected to bo called again
Into tho 'Mayor's private ofllce.
The tip was soon passed around City Hall
that the Mayor was back, and had come
back with "fire In his! eye," and a deter
mination to apply vigorously the "police
mop and cleaning powder" to the vlca situa
tion. It was rumored In the corridors that
the Mayor had a long list of questions to ask
Davis, Robinson, Kenny apd Lee, concern
ing the reports that disorderly houses have
reopened and denizens of ten Tenderloin
have returned to their old haunts. In police
circles It was reported that there would be
"something doing" In a few hours regarding
the vice situation.
"It will be ao lean sweep all right this
time," said ono official.
Twenty-three indictments were presented
today by the August Grand Jury to Judge
McMlchael of Quarter Sessions Court.
In the number was Included one against
E. H. Beaumont, who is alleged to hae
represented himself as a deputy constable
for Magistrate "Joe" Call. The indictment
of Beaumont was made on the recommenda
tion of the July Orand Jury. Testimony
was given before the July Grand Jury that
Beaumont had extorted JU'5 from Elizabeth
Zoldl, 1123 Germantown avenue, who was
accused of conducting a speakeasy and
selling liquor on Sunday.
, BEAUMONT'S VERSION.
Harry Brenner, 515 Pine street, attorney
for Beaumont, said today that his client
-would deny all charges. He said that Beau
mont was in the city and would appear
when wanted.
"My client," ho said, "was delegated by
a constable la Magistrate Call's ofllce to ar
rest this woman. Beaumont made the ar
rest In the capacity of a deputy constable
from Magistrate Call's office. When. Mrs.
Zoldl was held In 800 ball for a further
hearing by Magistrate Call she o&ked Beau
mont to get her a bondsman and a lawyer
CUaia ea Jfaie Tw. Psluma Jtrw
WILSON VETOES
ARMY BILL; SEES
UNJUST CLAUSE
Opposes Exemption of Re-
tired Officers From Serv
ice Liability
RE-ENTERED IN HOUSE
Measure Expected to Bo Pnssed
According to President's
Wishes
WASHINGTON, Aurf. 18 President Wil
son today vetoed the nrmy appropriation
bill. His nctlon resulted from a provision
In tho bill exempting retired nrmy omcors
from liability to Bcnlce and discipline under
tho articles of war.
Chairman Jamct Hay, of tho Army Af
fairs Committee, reintroduced tho bill In tho
House with tho cntlro nrtlclci of war pro
lslon eliminated within half nn hour after
tho President's eto had been rcceUed. In
Its new form tho bill was sent back to tho
committee. It wns expected that It would
bo reported out and passed by tho Houio
without a record oto within tho next two
daya
OPENS WAY TO ATTACK.
It has been known for several ilayi that
tho President was opposed to this fcaturo
of tho revised articles of war. Tho nrtlclcs
as sent to htm would exempt retired om
cors from court-mnrtl.il. It ban been gen
erally reported that this prolslon was mado
to allow former Adjutant General Alns
worth, who had a bitter row with tho then
Chief of Staff, Gcncril Leonard Wood, to
publish a book attacking tho War Depart
ment. ,
It la expected that tho provision which
tho President complains about -will bo elim
inated and that tho bill then will bo re
passed by both tho Senate and tho House
and signed.
SHOULD APPLY TO ALL.
In his veto messago tho President de
clares that the nrmy bill Is nn essential
part of tho national defense plan nnd that
ho experienced "genulno reluctance In de
laying Its going Into effect by asking that
tho objectionable provision bo eliminated."
Ho admits the necessity of bringing tho
articles of war up to date, as they are In
the bill, and then declares they should apply
to all officers, both active and retired.
In conclusion tho President says:
The purpose of tho artlqles of war
In timo of pcuco Is to Bring nbout a
uniformity In tho application of mili
tary dlsclplluo which will make tho cn
tlro organization coherent nnd cltccthc.
nnd to engender a spirit of co-opcratlon
and proper subordination to nuthorlty
whlch will In tlmo of wnr Instantly
mako tho cntlro nrmy a unit In its
purpose of sol f-sacrl lice and devotion to
duty In the national defense.
SEES VITAL OBJECTION.
Theso purposes cannot bo accomplish
ed If the retired officers, still a part
of tho military establishment, still re
lied upon to perform Important duties,
aro excluded, upon retirement, from tho
wholesomo and unifying effect of this
subjection to a common discipline. I
am persuaded that officers upon tho
retired list would themselves regard
this exemption as an Invidious and un
palatablo discrimination which In effect
excludes them from full membership In
tho profession to which they havo de
voted their lives, and of which by the
laws of their country they nro still
membtrs.
So long as Congress sees fit to mako
tho retired personnel a part of tho
army of the United States, the con
stitutionality of the proposed exemp
tion of such personnel from all liability
under the articles of war la a matter of
serious doubt, leaving the President, as
It does, without any means sanctioned
by statute of oxerclslng over tho per
sonnel thus exempted the power of
command vested in him by tho
Constitution.
Tho veto message, Immediately upon
receipt In the House, was referred to the
Military Affairs Committee without com
ment. VACATIONS OF P. R. R. MEN
DEFERRED BY STRIKK THREAT
Road Holds Men in Caso Walk-out
Materializes
Vacations of many Pennsylvania Railroad
employes are being canceled so that If
President Wilson falls to prevent a strike
the company will not be found napping.
The order for canceling vacations does
not Issue from the executive offices, it was
said here today, but is being left to the
Judgment of the various division superin
tendents. In this district comparatively
few men have been notified to postpone
their vacations. In Altoona, however,
12,000 men have been so notified, all clerks
and shopmen there being affected.
A petition i3 being circulated In the
Altoona shops asking tnat In future all big
labor disputes be settled by a Congressional
Commission, it is Deing signea Dy many,
The Order
vs.
The Pickup
THD advantage rests with
the order, first because he
who orders his Evening
Ledger has it brought to bis
home, Instead of picking It up
at his newsstand or casually
purchasing from a newsboy:
second, because the ordsred;'
paper Is sure, the "pick up"
decidedly uncertain, since after
September 1 newsdealers, car
riers and newsboys will order
only enough papers to cover
the certain demand, owing to
the abolition of the "return"
system on unsold papers. The
difficulty of getting newsprint
paper has made this change
necessary for all Philadelphia
newspapers.
Stand not on the order of
your ordering but order
ow.
afiriiiHHHiMmiiH""'"''Wfi
EXTRA
WILSON GIVES RAILWAY HEADS
UNTIL TOMORROW FOR REPLY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10. Tho fifth dny of Ticsld'nt Wilson's
negoUatiojis with the employs nnd executive hoiul3 or the gient mil
tond systems of tho countiy in an effott to nvcit the UiteMcmCi
BCiieinl stilke cimc to nn end nt !2:-10 o'clock this afternoon vlth no
conrliujioii icftuhttl. After n -UMulnuts confeicnco with SI tailiuntl
ineshlctits it wns nnuounccd tho Picsldent lomoriow would bee the
uicsidcuts nnd tho nmungeis In' what he inomtscs to bo n finnl He3
ulon. I'lCbiilcnt Hnle Holdon, of the Uuilluijton, spokesman for tho
. executives, said they would at once confer with tho mannijeiB
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. The mllway biothcihood committed
ncccpted riesldcut Wilson's plan to pioveut a stilke.
MAYOR WILL ANNOUNCE ACTION IN VICE CLEAN-U1
i
Mayor Smith, following: n secict confctcncc with police hrads to
day, intiiuatsd lie would act in the vice nltiiatlon when he said: "Wh
t ntu ready to act the publlo will be fully itifotmed. That i3 all
I will say at this time."
HOUSE ADOPTS REPORT ON CHILD LABOR BILL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. Tho House this afternoon adopted the
confcicnce lepoit on tho child labor bill without a lccoid vote. Thcic
was no debate oh the amendments by tho Semite which changed the
language of sonic parts of the bill without alteiiug the original pio
vicions of the mcnsuic. '
DEUTSCHLAND REPORTED IN HOME PORT
GENEVA, Aug. 18. A prlvnto dispatch from Bctlln to the Neue
Zurlchter Zeitung Bays that tho German submarine Deutschland ar-'
lived at Bremen ycstcidaytfrom tho United States. . '
SARAT0GA.RACING RESULTS
rirst ince, 2-year-olds, handicap, S500 added, 5 1-2 furlough
Burlesque, 117, Troxler, 0 to 1, 2 to 1, 4 to 0, won; Berlin, 126,
Murphy, 13 to 5, even, 1 to 2, second; Kildee, 112, J. McTaggnrt. 8 to
1, 3 to 1, 3 to 0, thliH. Time, 1.07 1-5.
PLANES STILL BOMBARD VENICE; ART IS REMOVED
HOME, Aug. 18. Austrian neroplanes continue their Indiscriminate bombard
ment of Venice, It was announced today, Corrado Rlccl, Government art director,
fcald tho city's nrt tt ensures, now stored In prlvnto and public galleries, museums,
palaces nnd Hbrnrles, aro being removed to Barer places.
100,000 ITALIANS FLEE EARTHQUAKES
ROMD, Aug. 18. Earthquakes aro causing heavy losses In all towns for 60
miles south of Ulmlnl on the Adriatic coast. Ofllclal reports say more than 100,000
men, women and children have fleJ to tho fields.
PORTUGAL SOON TO PLACE TROOPS IN FIELD
LISUOX, Aug. 18. Minister of Wur De Jlnttos announced today that Portugal
would soon put troops in the field In Kuropo to flght on the side of the Allies.
MAY WHEAT SOARS TO $1.50 ,
CHICAGO, Aug. 18. May wheat made another spectacular advance today,
following reports from tho Northwest that ciop damage was even more berlous
than had been reported, Tito May option advanced to Jl.HOH, after an opening at
$1,47 to $1.48. September wheat was $1.43, an advanco of 2 cents above the
opening, which was above last night's close by ,
RUSH FROM GALVESTON TO ESCAPE HURRICANE PERIL
HOUSTON, Tex., Aug. 18, Itallroads nnd Interurbans have been running special
trains all day carrying persons from Galveston to the mainland us a result of a
slight rise of tho tldo at the Galveston wall attributable to the Gulf hurricane,
$162 IN GIFTS DONATED FOR SOLDIERS' RELIEF BOARD
The Citizen Soldiers' Aid Committee has received $162, in contributions. J. P.
Warner forwarded a $5 check and a baby carriage to a wofnan who appealed for
a carriage for her month-old child, A letter was received by John McFadden, Jr.,
treasurer of tho Emergency Aid, now in France, telling of the excellent work done
at Verdun and along the northern line By one of the ambulances sent out by tho
Red Cross.
GASOLINE EXPECTED TO DROP TO 20 CENTS IN 2 WEEKS
NEW YOIIK, Aug. 18 Gasoline, will drop to 20 cents In virtually-overy seetlon
of tho country within two weeks, Standurd OH rmVla'H asserted today, at the same
time denying that the Government's inv , -..i "f t 1 .-nee in prices had any
thing to do with tho reduction. Price have been falling steadily throughout the
West and Middle West within the last few days. The decline, according to Stand
ard Oil officials, Is due fb tho fact that crude oil wells drilled last year are now show
ing exceptional yields, crude oil regulating the price of gasoline.
!! in i. t mi m i- bmiiii i. m mem
HOUSE TO AID IN PROBE OF BREAD AND FLOUR PRICES
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18. The. Ways and Means Committee of the House and
the Federal Trade Commlss.lonAwl!l co-operate In an Investigation of the bread and
flour situation in the United States to determine whether there Is an economic
Justification for the proposed sharp lncrea.se In the prices of these staple com
modities. BRITISH WIN AFRICAN TOWNS; CLEAR HILL COUNTRY
LONDON. Aug 18 An official statement from General Smuts, commander of
the British forces in German East Africa, reports the British have cleared difficult
Wily country and captured several Important towns, SeJng separated from the
central railway by only 25 miles ot opea country.
.. ;..
.
(
R.R. MAGNATES.
OPPOSE WILSON
PEACE SCHEME
Roacl Officials Back Mana
gers in Stand Against
Compromise '
TRAINMEN MAY ACCEPT
Developments of the Day
in Railroad Strike Crisis
"DAILWAY presidents meet Presi
"dent nnd state objection to com
promise plan.
Brotherhood officials debate ac
ceptance of President's plan with
strong opposition developed hgninst
it from lenders who demanded in
sistence on overtime pay.
President canceled Cabinet meet
ing to devote entire time to getting
both sides into agreement.
Brotherhood leaders declare Pres
ident's proposition will be accepted
eventually by their full committee.
WASHINGTON', Aug. 18. The railway
strike situation was at Its most serious
point today. Tho President this afternoon
explained to the railway presidents sum
moned hero by him that they must make
concessions to their men or take responsi
bility before tho country for any labor
trouble.
Tho 31 railroad presidents entered the
White Houso just at 2 o'clock. President
Wilson was In tho green rooms when the
executives arrived. President Holden, of
tho Durllngtori, spokesman, presented each
of his collengues to tho President as they
entered tho room. After shaking hands
with nil of them President Wilson Indicated
he wns ready for tho conference to begin.
Holdon opened the Besslon by stating the
railroad executives approved In full every
thing dona by the railroad managers, In
whom they had vested tho power of at
. torncy. Ho said tho railroads felt In the
present situation that they were lighting
for tho principle of arbitration which ha
said was the only remaining protection, not
only for railroads, but for all the other in
dustries of the country, against the wllfull
uggresilons of labor.
The railroad executives were reinforced
tby hundreds of letters and telegrams from
big manufacturers and employers, urging
them not to yield tho ''right and Justlco of
arbitration." Holden sad, howovor, that the
executives wero hero with open minds to
listen to what tho President had to sug
gest NO COUNTEIt-PnOPOSAL. ,
From an unquestioned source It was
learned tho executives went into conference
with no counter-proposition. Thoy intended
to stand fast by .arbitration even as to
tho olght-hour-day principle ns applied to
railroad operation. It was made plain that
unless the President uncovered some power
ful Instrument by which he could change
their attitude, they were determined to
stand or fall on their contention. It was
announced positively that tho plan was to
stand Arm against acceptance of the Presi
dent's proposition outlined to the employes
jesterday.
It was added, however, tha,t following
the session the presidents would meet with
tho managers and consider with them what
their final course of action would be. At
the conclusion of the White House meeting
the oxecutlves planneQ to issue a complete
statement ot their contentions.
Tho Big Four Brotherhood delegates, be
hind closed and carefully guarded doors In
the Bijou Theater, debated at length their
acceptance of the presidential plan, which
gives the eight-hour day, but denies over
time at Increased rate's. The brotherhood
leaders were lined, up for the plan and
expressed complete confidence that event
ually It would be approved.
During the morning the railway presl
dents conferred with their committee of
managers. They unqualifiedly approved
all that had been done, and In order to
prepare powerful arguments to back up
their claim that to accept the President's
solution would spell bankruptcy for the
roads and sound the death knell of arbi
tration to settle labor disputes, gained post
ponement of their planned conference with
the President from 1130 until 2 p. m
The general situation ;vvas admittedly
charged with dynamite, but White House
officials expressed the utmost confidence
that the skies were clearing and that
eventually both sides would agree to l&e
plan of the President.
COMPULSORY ARBITRATION.
Pending the conference, telle of compul
sory arbltratlpn as a last means of head.
ng off a strike was heard in Congress ten
day. In the event the President falls to
bring about a settlement some SenaUirs
Administration men included believe Con
gress should enact at once a compulsory
arbitration measure that could be mad
effective before the brotherhoods had time
to strike. The 1atter usually give & week
or 14 day's' notice arid In that time com
pulsory arbitration could be provided by "
law, if the President ratified the plan.
During the day the President prepared
a statement for the people of the country,
outlining In' details the course he bad pur
sued in attempting to bring about a settle-,
ment ot the threatened strike. He planned
to make this publlo after he had conferred
with the, railroad, presidents Lot afternoon.
When he has receive the answer from
both sides to his proposition lie will iu
public the result of his effort with & dis
cussion of It
That the Brotherhood represftatativt
have accepted PreJdttt Wltam'f owa
prom'sa proposition to prevsut & r.Uwyv
strike waa the latlmttsa wnvyt! fcy t
Ua.de rs tbU afternoon mbtm. tfce tiisat
reassembled at the mum TkMMjre. At tUt
hour the railway trfiilrfeno wr is pes
ftrwiM Witb FrMbiwtt WVmf
