Haskin's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
g
\
Sidpttonii 0TimeS ?
"Seen on the Side"
A T.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
6th year
VOLUME) lie
MMiiuit :>.io
richmond, va., friday, august 18, 1916. ?ten pages.
y'iixry-11 ? fair
price: two p.f.nts
DRIVES
BBK AGAINST
BRITISH LINES
Germans Make Six Desper
ate, Futile Efforts to Re
gain Ground.
EVEN LOSE 100 YARDS
OF THEIR OWN TRENCHES
No Counterattacks Made Where
Allies Won Victory on
Wednesday.
NO CHANfiHS Of IMPORTANCE
n.s (o Si dial ion in Kast
Where Uotli Shies Are
Silent
IjON'DOX, August ?For t ho first
'me Jn w?ks ivo change of Importance
reported In any theater of the war
>1 Thursday. The most violent fight
'ng took place on the weetern end of
he British salient on the Somme, where
*ix times the Germans advanced In
force In a deBj, crate effort to bend
''ark the British lines northwest of
f'r,ileres. The War Office reports thai
*11 or these. aesaults were repulsed with
heavy losses, and that the British in
:<Jrn captured about 100 yards of
trenches northwest of Razentin.
The Germans. contrary to their usual
practice, so far have made no attempt
?o deliver a counterattack in a region
where the French and British claim
to have captured nearly three miles of
tranches on Wednesday. The French
are busily consolidating their gains,
and report no action of importance on
any section of their front, including
the Verdun region.
Some mystery e.\ists as to the situa
tion on the eastern front. For two
consecutive days the Russians have
confined themselves to brief state
litems that nothing of importance had
occurred. The AuHtrian and German
War offices have been almost equally
uncommunicative The only fighting'
mentioned by Vienna was the repulse
of Russian attacks on the lines of Gen
eral von Boehui-Rrmolll, -who is in
I'ouimand of the Teutonic forces retlr
?ig from the Tarnopol front. Berlin
teport.s the repulse of Russian attacks
south of Rrody.
The lull In the Italian operations
;i(:alrist Trieste is unofficially explained
from Rome as due to General Oadorna's
desire to strain h ten his lines before
proceeding with a general offensive
against the great Austrian seaport.
Vustrlan seaplanes have again raided
Venice, but Rome savs they caused only
slight damage.
s I V (.KltM A X VITA (lis
HKATKX (IKK ll\ llltlTISII
LONDON. August 17.?Six determined
German counterattacks on the British
trenches northwest of Pozieres were re
pulsed, with heavy losses to the at
tackers, according to the official state
ment issued by the War Office to-night.
Northwest of Bazentin the British cap
tured about 1,000 yards of German
trenches.
The statement follows:
"On our right there was considerable
activity all day. Last night and early
thiS morning the enemy < delivered a
series of determined counterattacks on
our trenches northwest of Pozieres on
a broad front with considerable forces.
Six times his infantry advanced to the
attack, hut ran back, suffering very
heavy losses. Our guns and machine
guns did great execution. In no cases
?lid be succeed in entering our lines.
"Northwest of Bazentin we captured
about 100 yards of trenches. A coun
terattack made by the enemy to-day
from Martinpuich was repulsed, and
fcome prisoners wore captured by us.
A German aeroplane was brought down
behind our lines near Pozieres."
VO INKAXTItV ACTIONS
ai.om; krkxch front
PARIS, August 17 (via London).??
The French official communication this
evening says:
"On the Somme front bur artillery
was active to-day. and carried out
numerous destructive bombardments
against enemy organizations. There
has been no infantry action.
"The number nf unwounded pris
oners taken north of the Somme yes
terday exceeds 200. We also captured
five machine guns.
"There has been the usual cannon
ade on the remainder of the front."
IIKni,IX CLAIMS THAT AM.
ATTACKS AK10 HITI I.SKI)
BKRLIN, August 17.?French and
British troops made heavy attacks on
the Somme front yesterday, but were
beaten back by the Germans, says the
official announcement of to-day, wnieh
i.illows:
"The enemy's fire increased at times
to creaf violence west of Wytschaete
and on the La Bnssee Canal and to the
K.utli thereof.
"After strong British attacks from
the Ovillers-Pozieres lino nnd west of
Foureaux wood had been repulsed in
the morning, the French, after the
strongest artillery preparation, ad
vanced to the assault between Guille
tnoitt and the Somme, and at the same
time very considerable British forccs
advanced between l'ozieres and Fou
reaux wood. The assault failed, as did
five nocturnal attacks attempted by
the French. After stubborn fighting
portions of the enemy troops which
penetrated our positions west of Fou
reaux wood and aouth of Maurepas were
driven back again. The enemy's losses
were heavy.
"South of ttie Somme lighting took
place In tho neighborhood of llelloy.
The French obtained n foothold here
^ In our first-line trenches over a width
" of about fit'O meters. East thereof and
(Continued on Second Page.) 7
| Hand of Britain
Is Felt by Sweden
j No Further Exports Will Be
Permitted Except Under
Most Rigid Guarantee.
LONDON', A ub ust 17.?A proclama
tion Is about to be Issued prohibiting
the exportation to Swedon of all com -
modifies except on presentation to th<?
customs officials of a Swedish t-r.i'ie
j commission guarantee.
It is explained that the Swedish war
trade law of 1!*1<5 makes it illegal for a
Swedish importer to furnish an ex
porter In the United Kingdom with
information as to the disposal of goods.
The exporter, therefor'1, often is
obliged to admit that he is unable tc>
furnish evidence that he has taken rea
sonable precaution to insure that the
' goods be exports reaches the proper
ilest i nation.
; It has become necessary, therefore,
to mak?- all exports to Sweden, with a
few minor exceptions, dependent upon
?the production of a guarantee signed
by the importer and sanctioned and
registered by the proper department of
the Swedish government to the effect
i that both the goods and thHr products
I will not he re-exported.
| The present trade, agreement between
i tho two nations applies strictly to ex
j ports from the L'nitfd Kingdom, and
I Sweden has declined positively to inaKe
| any agreement with regard to im
ports from other nations.
Imports from oth**r nation? into
i Sweden. however. still must puss
; through the blockade, and In th?* event
'that Sweden is not willing to grant ad
ditional guarantees, it is said at the
! Foreign Office that further measures
; may be necessary.
The Foreign Office officials admitted
I there was some Justification In the view
| taken by the Knglish press that the
| new measure was to some extent re
; taliatory.
DEUTSCHLAND SIGHTED
\\ urrrn I.liifr Snclirni MrlngM Report of
llnvinK forn fiermnn Mrrrlmni
Suhinemlhlr.
BOSTON, August 17.?The sighting of
a large submarine, believed to be the
Jerman merchantman Deutschland. off
the Grand Banks on Saturday was re
ported by members of the crew of the
Warren liner Sachem, in to-night from
La i'allce, France, and Liverpool. The
submersible was traveling in a north
easterly direction moderate speed.
Soon after the submarine was sighted
the steamer was turned toward her, tho
Sachem's officers believing at first that
: she was a dismasted vessel. A few
, minutes later the submarine sub
merged and was not seen again.
Tiie quartermaster said that on her
second day out from France the
Sachem was pursued for eight hours
by two submarines, believed to be Oer
rnan. The Sa<-hetn. making fourteen
knots i hour, succeeded in keeping
out of 'anger.
The riirsult was ended, according; to
the quartermaster, when British patrol
boats appeared and fired several shot3
at the submarines, with what result it
is not known.
CITY OFFICIALS INDICTED
i The.v Must Fnce Jury ?>n Charges
(iriminR Out of Hrrent I.i<|iior
ISenHUt luna.
S K A LIS, | ALA., August 17.?Seven
! teen Indictments against Girard men,
charging various offenses in connec
! tion with th* recent li'iuor raids in tliat
iSown, to-day were returned by the
grand Jury here. Several of the in
dictments are understood to be against
i Glrard city officials. Sheriff Lindscy,
of Russell County, announced to-night
that he would arrest the indicted men
to-morrow. Reports that all members
i of the fiirard Council wore arrested
1 to-day were denied to-night. Mayor
? Earl Morgan and Clerk of Council A.
I I. Weaver, who were arrested on
! charges of bribery ^estordny, to-day
j were Indicted and their bonds raised
| from Jl'.fiOO to $6,000 e.xch.
| .John Oakes, town marshal of Glrard,
to-day was sentenced to two years
imprisonment. He was convicted yes
terday. All old city officials of Glrard
| to-day agreed to resign, to take ef
fect as soon as the city's books can lie
arranged for transfer to the new of
ficials. The new board, as agreed upon,
will be sworn into office to-morrow
night.
GETS HIS POT OF GOLD
I
; Bell Hop Finriw Unci of III* Rainbow,
nml Nott In Worth
920,000.
CHICAGO, August 17.?Frank C. Hill,
a bellboy at the Congress Hotel, found
the end of his rainbow to-day, and the
proverbial pot of gold was there with
? about $20,000 in It. While shuffling
baggage this morning. Hill received a
wire that his aunt. Mrs. Ben Snow, of
Rochester. N'. Y., had died very sud
denly leaving an estate of $100,000, of
which young Hill was to receive one
fifth. Hill immediately "gave notice"
and left to-night for Rochester.
WINS APPLE SHOW CUP
Vlrglnln Ntntr Horticultural Society
CapturM Honor at .Niagara
Fall* KxhlhMion.
NIAGARA FALLS. N. T.. August 17.
?The Virginia State Horticultural So
ciety won the sweepstakes cup in the
big apple show given here by the
International Apple Shippers' Associa
tion. Competition by all the States
was keen, particularly the great apple
producing States of the Northwest.
Want Wilson to Spenk.
"WASHINGTON, August 17.?President
Wilson has been invited to make the
principal address at the annual con
ventfon of the Young Men's Business
Clubs of America, which will !>'? held
at Jackson, Miss., October 10 and II,
and at New Orleans October 14 and
15. Tho President took the invitation
under advisement.
SCIENTISTS SEEK
CURE FOR PLAGUE:
Health Authorities of Many j
States Confer in Washington
on Infantile Paralysis.
ITS CAUSE STILL UNKNOWN
All Agreed That Measures Are
Necessary to Prevent Wide
spread Outbreak.
WASH INGTON. \iinuKt 17.? Plans 'or
a more vigorous 'ampaign to prevent
further spread of infantile paralysis
were made here to-day at a conference
of health authorities of most of t li o
States with ofll< {nIs of tho Federal !
Public Health .Service.
Resolutions will be a<lopte'l to-mor
row by the conference, in which emi
nent plague experts, scientists and bac
teriologists are participating. outlin
ln>? definite proposals for checking dis
semination of the disease.
Few or those present to-day ex
pressed alarm that the epidemic might!
assume country-wide proportions, but '
they unlformh der lared measures were '
necessary to guard against a wide-1
spread outbreak. Admission was freely
made by many exports that the cause
i of the plautje is unknown and the
j means of it.* transmission not conclu
| slvolv determined.
I V IT'OItM IIKCI I.ATIONS
foii tuvvi;i, iti:<:oMMi:.\i)i:i)
I niformitv of regulations for travel!
on r:tilroad trains, steamships and other
carriers was urged by Secretarv Mc- ;
Adco, of the Treasury Department, in !
opening the conference, and, while sev- !
eral speakers held that general quar-I
amine was unnecessary, the conference
probably will recommend a system of
uniform inspection, issues of health
certificates and co-operation between j
Federal, State ami railroad authorities
to safeguard travelers.
A special committee to propose
methods for control of the epidemic,
including transportation regulations,
was appointed to report to-morrow.
Its members are: I)r. John S. Fulton, j
of Maryland, chairman: Dr. T I). Tut-!
tie, of Washington State; l ?r Knnion
G. Williams, of Virginia: Dr. H. H.
Bracken, of Minnesota, and Surgeon
Charles K. Hanks, head of the Public
Health Service corps fighting the
plaeue In New York.
Another committee was appointed to
recommend a uniform method of col
lecting and transmitting statistics and
information regarding the disease's
progress and control.
A national survey presented by the
I State delegates showed 11.117 cases in
the States reporting since January I.
i:\ irn:\? i-: is acai.vst
INSKCT TRANSMISSION j
Assistant Surgeon Rucker, who, with!
Acting Surgeon-General A. II. Glennan, j
presided over the conference, gave out J
to-night the following synopsis of the
I views of the speakers:
"It appears to be the consensus of
| opinion that segregation of persona j
! with the disease is desirable, and that
opening of schools is also advisable. !
Travel is dangerous when it permits
movement of acute or chronic carriers
of the disease. The evidence is against
insect transmission, and transmission j
by food is hypothetical."
Reporting 011 a scientific study of I
symptoms and control of the epidemic)
in N'ew York, conducted by many State. I
city and Federal scientists. Surgeon j
Wade Frost, of the Public Health Ser- ;
vice, saiil
"Frankly, we do not know how the,
disease is transmitted nor its cause, j
The evidence strongly points to hu-1
mans as the carriers. The evidence is
that it is purely a human disease, and
if contagious a large proportion of i
persons exposed are immune. It must !
be spread largely from other sources
than sick persons. . . . Dur theories I
do not exclude transmission by insects. '
Transmission by the lower animals is :
hypothetical. We hardly suspect any I
hut dogs or cats. Its rapid spread in-j
I dlcates human carriers."
Surgeon Frost said the disease is 1
most severe in rural communities. 1
There are few infections of persons j
exposed in their own families, he j
stated.
SI MMUM OF CONDITIONS
IN SOUTHKit N STATUS
Following is a summary of conditions
In those Southern States from which
delegates were present:
Alabama?Dr. Glenn Andrews, sixty
four cases reported from July 14 to
August 14
Arkansas?Dr. C. W. Harrison. State
health oflicer, three cases reported.
Kentucky?Dr. J, N. McOonnaek,
eighteen cases this year: none import
ed and most in rural districts. Rigid
local five weeks' quarantine regula
tions. but none against other States.
North Carolina ?Dr. W. S. Rankin,
twenty cases, two deaths; conditions
not unusual, except five cases in on?
town in last three weeks. Only tw<>
'cases traceable to New York. Seven
teen deaths last year. No State quar
antine.
South Carolina?Dr. J. 10. Hay tie,
eighteen cases In July and thirty-seven
in August with none before. Develop
ing in Wagner and Springfield districts.
No State quarantine.
Tennessee?Dr. Shoulders, twenly
seven cases in June and nine in July,
all in rural communities. No State
quarantine.
Texas?Six eases in June, twenty
two in July, and two jn August. No
large cities involved like previous
years. No State quarantine.
Virginia?Dr. Knnion G. Williams,
ten cases in June and nineteen in July;
I only one. attributable to importation.
, Local, hut no State quarantine. More
cases in P.?l.', and sporadic since every
month.
Florida?Dr. J. Y. Porter, six, cases
this year, but none imported. North
ern travelers closely Inspected, but no
State quarantine.
-/
i
Gasoline Is Going
Down to 20 Cents
i
MOW VOHK, AukunI 17.?(.itnollne
ttIII fnll to -'() I'fntK n gallon nllhln
trn day* or two ?rrk?, Standard
Oil o file In In tu III to-day. At tlie *ti?
tlon* about town tlir gullon rate
ixnlKi wlilfli represented a
3-crut drop within Hip last live day*.
Although the Middle Went State*
vrcrr welting Rumilinr for I'Vj ceilIII,
llirrf Ik little likelihood of till* re
duced IlKure Mtrlklng Xeiv \iirk lie
fore n month, If til nil, expert* mild.
'I'lie explanation for (IiIn drop In
motor fuel I* n*crlhed to tlie e\tra
orilinnry output of the crude-oil
irrllN Hint Tvrrr drilled last year null
now lire yielding. \s a cun*ci|tic nee
of tlielr exceptional output In the
last few week*, tlie iTude-oll iiuotn
t Ion Ini* fnllen, unit with It git*i>llne,
the price i*t which Is regulated en
tirely li}' the production of crude oil.
Stundiird (til oIIIcIiiIn salt) the full
elVcct of thin iTude-oll production
will lie over within two week*, nnd
gn*oliiie price* then will hnve |
renched tlielr minimum. .New irelU
are being drilled, hut their yield
will not he tippreclulile In the
market of the neiir future.
AGAIN IN FULL SWING
tirrmnny'n Siiliiiinrlne Warfare AKnin.it
Merchant Ship* IIhk Heen
Itenewed.
PARIS. August 17.?Germany's sub
marine warfare against merchant <-hips
is again in full swing. according to the
naval expert of the t?m|>.s The Temps
declares that this new submarine cam
paign follows the German note to the
1'niled States of February 10, in which
it was said:
"Merchant ships carrying guns can
not he considered as peaceful ships."
According to the Temps, the Ger
mans now are acting under this notice,
and says that three days ago the
Italian ship Plata repulsed with gun
fire attacks of an enemy submarine.
The article concludes with an em
phatic declaration that a similar course
will be followed by other ? ommanders
of allied merchant ships, undismayed
by the "murder of Captain Kryatt."
Wliltglft In Torpedoed.
LONDON. August 17.?"The British
steamer Whitgift. previously reported
missing, now is understood to have
been torpedoed and sunk April 20,"
says Lloyd's.
"The sole survivor was a Japanese."
The Whit gift sailed front Spain on
April 17 for the Tyne, and was last
reported as leaving Gibraltar, April
13. She was a vessel of 4,397 tons,
and was owned in London.
CHILE WANTS LOAN
hyodiftilc of \cw York Hanker* t on- .
sliler* Advancing to
.South American tinvernment,
NKW YORK, August 17.?A loan of'
? 50.000,000 to the Chilean government!
s now under consideration by a syndl- j
?ate composed of J. p. Morgan & Co.. !
he National City Bank and the Guar- '
anty Trust Company The National
t'ity Bank has a branch in Valparaiso.
Britain, it was learned to-day, he- j
sides trying to sell American securities
here, now is trying to place Chilean
5 per cent loans. Several Chilean
oans were made in Hue land formerly
by Rothschilds. They have heen con
ideied good investments.
Business is good in <*hile. and the
?ate of exchange has risen in the last
two years more than 33 per ccnt. i
The money. It was developed by a
special agent of the l.'nited States gov
ernment, is needed for railroad-build
ing and other public works, as well
is try pay for military and naval estab
ishments.
SNAKE BITES INCREASE
I?nrger Number nf l'ol*onou* Iteptlle*
Hue to t'omlug I p of Second
Urowtli Timber.
NKW YORK. August 17.?1'eaths
from snake bites in the I'nited States
are increasing, according to Raymond
L. Ditmars, curator at the Bronx Zoo
logical Park. "There are three or
four deaths every year now," said Mr.
IMtmars, "whereas four or five years
ago it was rare to hear of more than ;
one every other year.
"The increase is in the timbered re
gions of the Mast. Tere in the 10ast j
people do not realize how common :
poisonous snakes are. | think the:
copperheads and rattlesnakes are on
the increase in the Kast, due to (he
second-growth timber coming up."
Rattlesnake bite?:. Mr. Ditmars said,
are seldom fatal if properly treated;
copperhead bites almost never.
MEDICINE FOR M0R0S
It I* Hoped to flvlllxe Savage
Trllie* by < tiring Tlielr
HIseiiMe*.
NKW YORK, August 17.?In an at
tempt to advance civilization through
the medium of medical relief, (lie.
Philippine government, co-operating
with the International Health Board
of the Rockefeller Foundation, it was
announced here to-night, will send a
hospital ship to the Sulu Archipelago,
which is Inhabited by approximately
200,000 Moron and other savage tribes.
The medical service will be maintained
for live years.
HE WOULDN'T STAY AT HOME
Wife Shoot* Hotel I'lerk Who Seek*
t'onipnny of Other*
Too Much.
MOUNT C'LliM ION'S, MICH., August
17.?Roy Pettit, thirty-live years old,
was shot and killed by his wife on a
downtown street to-day. Many saw
the tragedy.
Pettit. who was night clerk at a
local hotel, was stopped on the street
by his wife, who llred live bullets into
his head. After she was nrrested Mrs.
Pettit declared her husband "sought
the company of others too much."
v ? . ' * .
TO MEETEXPENSES
Senate Finance Committee Rec
ommends Issue of $130,000,000
for Extraordinary Purposes.
MEXICAN SITUATION COSTLY
,
Vast Sums Also Have Been Ap
propriated for Program of
Preparedness.
WASH INCITON. August 1".?A bond
issue of $130,000,000 to mocl extra
ordinary Rovcrnmcnl expenditures was
recommended to-night by the Senate
Finance Committee with the concur
rence of the Treasury Department. The j
bond issue is urged on the report of
the Finance Committee filed in the Sen
ate late to-day on the $205,000,000 reve
nue I.ill. In addition to the proposed
issue and the revenue bill, th" Finance
Committee asserts that a further ap
propriation of $S6.001..000 will be neces
sary to defray the expense of opera
tions in the Mexican emergency if con
dition? on the border continue as they
are now after December 1, 191u. The
$130,000,000 to be provided by the pro
posed bond issue, the report says, will
meet Mexican expenditur* s only until
the end of tliis calendar year.
(iK.\ Kit A I. STAT KM KM'
MAIH0 IIV THKAS1 RV
Accompanyiac the Finance Commit
tee's majority repor,t, submitted by Sen
ator Simmons, was a Reneral statement
from the Treasury Department, ??stl
mating disbursements for the fiscal
year 1917 at $1,136,243,000 and receipts
at $7ti2.000.0C0.
"The total appropriations for the
fiscal year 1917. exclusive of those car
ried In the so-called 'shipping bill.*
which is to be defrayed by the issu
ance of I'airtma iionds, will exceed the
appropriations for the fiscal year 1 oi?;
by about ?4I>9.000,000." say? the report.
"This increase is represented ptin
cipaily l>\ $167,000,000 additional
amount appropriated for the navy;
$166.000.000 for the army; $20,000.
000 additional amount appropriated
for fortifications; $41,000,000 for de
ficiency appropriations; about $35,000.
000 of which Is due to the Mexican sit
uation and Increased requirements of
the army and navy?anrt $20,000,000
for a nitrate plant, which is a prepar
edness appropriation. The increase in
the appropriations for the present fiscal
year, other than these, is not beyond
the normal increase.
COS T OF PltKPA IIICDNKSS
ItP.SPONSItil.F. FOIl INCHKASF.
| "But for the additional expenditures |
made necessary to defray the cost of ?
preparedness, the increased revenue to!
he raised by this bill would not be j
necessary, and the estimated receipts j
under the present law would he con- j
siderabl.v In excess of the estimated j
disbursements for the fiscal year 1:?17. j
In this connection attention is called I
to the fact that $21,000,000 of the nor
mal increase for the present fiscal year
represents the amount appropriated for
rural credits and good roads.
"In a statement furnished your com
mittee August 17, 1916, the Treasury
Department estimated disbursements
for the fiscal year 1917 at $1,126,24 3,000,
and estimated receipts for 1917 at
$762,000,000, making the excess of dis
bursements over receipts $364,243,000.
This total includes appropriations
amounting to about $ 130,000,000 to meet
extraordinary expenses and disburse
nients incident to tin- Mexican situ
ation, and the inobilijsation of the Na
tional Guard.
FOIXOWl.Xli (TSTOM
OF AM. O'l'IIKIt NATION'S
"This would simply he following not j
only the custom of this country, but of
all other nations under similar cireum-l
stances. Deducting this amount from
the estimated disbursement over re
ceipts, the additional revenue required
for the year 1917 would amount to
$234,243,000. It Is ^estimated that the
bill as amended by your committee
will raise $205,000,000, leaving a bal
ance of $29,243,000 to he taken from
the general fund of the Treasury,
which amounted on the 16th Inst., ex
cluding credits of disbursing officers,
to $134,337,895. Your committee is ad
vised by the Treasury Department that
it is safe to estimate that this amount
can be taken from the petieral fund
without seriously embarrnssing the
Treasury."
In its analysis of the revenue bill
as revised by the Senate committee,
(lie Treasury Department estimates
that the annual revenue to be derived
will be $109,500,000 from income tax;
inheritance tax, $20,000,000 for 1917
fafter the law Is in full force, approxi
mately $65,000,000): munition manu
facturers' tax, $40.000,00t?; miscel
laneous. inrludiug beer, liquors, stamp!
taxes, etc., $35,500,000; a total of j
$205.000,00ft.
MORE MONEY FOR "DRYSM i
Sir. nod Mr*. .lolin I*. ('ofHn Con
tribute $.-.0,000 to Party'* I'nm
piilKti Fund.
IN" DIANA POMS, INK.. August 17.?
An additional gift of $50,000 I?? the
National Prohibition party's campaign j
fund, by Mr. and Mrs. John I'. Cotlin, |
of Johnstown, Fla., was announced hero
to-day. They previously had given j
$50,000 to the fund. The $100,000 is to i
be made the nucleus for a campaign j
of $1,000,000. The Kifts are in the
nature of property and Florida real
estate.
For the purpose of handling the .
property thus acquired a charter or
ganization to bo known as the Pro
hibition Foundation baa been formed
by the national party leaders. Ha
members Include the nine men on the
executive committee and n number of
the general national committee.
The foundation will serve as a clear- '
ing-hottse for all general and special j
funds which may be turned over to
the national committee. The expandi
l turo of the money will bo largely in
I the hands of Virgil (I. Hlnshuw, of
Chicago lltu national chairman.
Denmark*s Political
Situation Tangled
Question of Sale of West Indies
to United States Practically
Is Lost Sight Of.
CuPKNll At.ilCN, August 17 (via Lon
don. August IS).?The political situ
ation resulting from the Dutiisli \\ est i
Indies question, is so tangled that not
even th?> best informed politicians ven
ture to predict what developments may .
i>e expected. The question of the sale
of the inlands to the United States,
which was almost lost sight of early j
In the debate In the Uolkething. now
has been shoved completely into the i
background. The various parties in
the Uigsdag will hold their first caucus,
on Saturday to consider the govern-;
ment's proposal for the formation of a
coalition Cabinet, and Indications ap-;
pear to foreshadow the rejection of the
government's proposal. Such a rejec
tion would carry with it the proposal
for a plebiscite on the sale of the is
lands and defer a decision on this mat-j
ter until the general elections, which
would then probably be unavoidable]
despite th<- government's reluctance to
have a campaign conducted before the
close of the war.
The. party of the I.eft in the Lands-- j
thine is opposed to the sale of the is
lands. although a considerable number j
of the members are personally In favor ;
of II. .loercon Pedersen, president of j
the Left, explained the position of the
party in an interview with a represem-i
tatlve of the Associated Press.
"A plebiscite would have to be held
under the new constitution," he said.
"That is to say, there would be 500,000
to 600?000 new voters, who are utterly
ignorant of political questions and un
used to the exeroi.'e of the franchise.
These voters ought not to be asked
to vote on any subject without a previ
ous opportunity for the parties to con
duct an educational campaign. Such i
a campplgn would naturally precede a
general election, but not a plebiscite."
qvkstiov takks on
i.Aiu;r.it I'noroirrio.NS
PAKIS. August 17.?The Temps,
treating at length the negotiations for
the sale of the Danish West Indies to'
the United States, says the question is
gradually taking on larger proportions
than the one between the governments
immediately concerned, and is becom-,
Ing international. It points out that |
the Danish Finance Minister. M. Bran-(
des, declared tin government had de-.
elded to sell the islands becauuse it was;
feared they might be taken away by I
force.
The Temps also says that the cession ,
of the islands by Denmark was under-i
taken probably with the desire of ob- J
talnlng the support of the United States;
when the S c hi e K\vjg - H o 1 a tc 1.'. question !
is brought before" tho pe1\ce Congress j
at the end of the war.
FIGHT WON FOR NORFOLK
lt? Nitv> a rd Mill He R?|?llpped foi
lliilldlng of Nation'*
Warships.
WASHINGTON. August 17.?As the
natal appropriation bill tinallj. was
perfected by Senate and House con
ferees to-dsiy tiie navy-yards at Not -
f'jlk. Charleston. New Orleans. Puget
Sound, Boston, Portsmouth and Phila
delphia will he equipped to build war
ships. The $1,250,000 for additional im
provements for the Charleston yard. In
cluding a dry dock, was strickcu out.
leaving the total of the perfected bill
$213.3:11.S43.
. All the disputed points now are j
cleared up. and the bill, with Hie big j
building program, the greatest in the
history of the United States, already
perfected, is ready for the President's
signature.
Provision for the equipping of the
seven navy-yards was contained in the !
original bill and a bard tight on it was j
inade, but the conferees finally decided \
to retain them in the measure. Sena-j
tor Tillman, chairman of the Naval
Committee, consented to have the spe
cial Charleston appropriation elimi
nated, after Chairman Padgett, of the
House committee, had promised that
lie would support a similar appropria-!
tion next year, provided a committee
authorized to investigate til'" advisa
bility of such a project reported f:?-;
vorablv.
PATRIOT'S WIDOW DIES
Mrs. Mnry O'Honovnti ItoKsn Whs Com
panion of Her lliiMhnnd'ft
Prison Vnir*.
NKW YORK. August 17.?Mrs. Mary
? ?'Donovan Itossa, seventy years old,
died to-day at her home here. She was .
the widow of the Irish patriot. Mrs
Kof-sa was the third wife of O'Donovan
itossa and the companion of his prison
years, his cnIIp and later career. When
the noted leader died in Staten Island, j
.1 line, l{i|fi, she accompanied tiie body;
to Ireland for burial.
DANIELS IS GRATIFIED
lie Compliments \niHl Arntlrmj for
llrNiilt.*) of Its Target
Praet Ice.
WASHINGTON, August I 7.-?Secretary j
Daniels wrote to Captain Kberle, su-!
perintendent of the Naval Academy,
to-day, expressing gratification at the
results of target practice by the
academic, practice squadron this week. !
"The department believes that the
expenditures of ammunition involved
was the most profitable in return of
any on record," wrote the secretary.
The scores of the practice squadron
ships were not disclosed.
MAJOR 0BENCHAIN DEAD
He Wia Member of Robert K, l.ee'ii
Staff During War und .Noted
Kduentor.
NASI IV11.1 iK, TKN'N., August 17?'
Major William A. obeiu-hain. Sr.. a
member of General llohert K. I?ee's
staff during tiie Civil War and a noted
educator, tjled to-day at Howling t'Sroon,
Ky., according to a special received
here.
Wilson Will Put His Plan to
Avert Strike Before
Them.
CONFERENCE WILL BE HELD
AT 9 O'CLOCK THIS MORNING
Their Attitude Uncertain, but
They Are Believed to Oppose
Eight-Hour Day.
EMPLOYEES mkei.y to accept
Men Expected to Make I'nvorablo
Answer at Their Meeting
To-Day.
WASHINGTON, August 17. ? President
Wilson to-day laid his plans Tor avert
ing the threatened railway strike bo
fore. the employees' committee of 640,
and. having found the managers' com- ?
mittce adamant to his proposal that
they accept the eight-hour day, he ap
pealed to the railroad presidents and
asked them to come to tlip Whl'f House
for a conference.
There is every indication that if the
railroad presidents sustain their man
agers. President Wilson will appeal
finally to the financial powers which
control the roads, for it Is his purpose
to deal with the ultimate authority
before lie gives up his effort.
RKiliT-ltorit DAY IS IIASIS
OF I'll MS ID HINT'S PLAN
Tiie President's plan, which is ex
pected to he accepted formally by the
employees' committee at a meeting at
0 o'clock to-morrow morning, pro
poses:
An eight-hour day as the basis for
computing wages.
Kegulnr pay at the eight-hour-day
rate for overtime. ,
To refer all other collateral issues
to a small commission to be created
by Congress, on which the employees,
the railroads and the public would be.
represented.
Acceptance of tlie proposal by the
employees was forecast by expressions
of their leaders after they left the
IT.esident's conference. One of them
declared: "The men would bo fools n<**
to accept it."
The attitude of the railroad presi
dents is not so clear. They begsur.
arriving to-night; all arc expected to
bo here to-morrow. No one enn say
what will he the effect of an appeal
such as a President of the United
States, speaking in the name of the
welfare of a nation, can make, but from
such information as can be gathered it
appears that the railroad presidents, if
the managers' committee understands
them, are unalterably opposed to con
ceding the eight-hour day, or anything
else out of hand, but are quite ready
to arbitrate anything and everything
in almost any form of arbitration upon
which the employees and the commit
tee may agree.
PUKSIDKXTS WOUI.I) MAINTAIN"
PHINCIPI.K Ol?' AUIIITIIATION
The railroad presidents, it 13 under- j
stood, justify their stand upon the broad
ground of maintaining the principle of
arbitration, which, if sacrificed in this
instance, they intend to tell tlie Presi
dent, will be destroyed as a factor in
the settlement of industrial disputes.
If the railroad presidents persist in
that view and are supported by the
financial powers, only the future can
tell the outcome. ?
The conference to-night between the
railroad presidents and the managers'
committee developed further indica
tions that the magnates were to be
backed up by their chiefs in the at
titude they had adopted toward the
President's proposal.
"We have gone over the situation
thoroughly," snid one of the presidents
as he left the conference, "and we
agree thoroughly in every particular
with what the committee has done."
W ith the growing seriousness of the
situation, t'ongress began paying more
real attention to the crisis to-day. and
there wore many indications of inter
vention to prevent a nation.wide tie-up.
The general expectation is that the
railroad officials, after seeing the Presi
dent to-morrow, will ask that they be
given several days, perhaps a week or
more, to consider their course. It was
emphasized by those of the officials who
arrived to-night, however, that all of
these plans were tentative. A score
who came from New York on a special
train went into session soon after their
arrival with the managers' committee,
and it was said that one of the possi
bilities under consideration was the
preparation of a statement to be given
out before their visit to the President,
putting their position befote the coun
t ry.
WII.I. TAKI-J STIIOMi A I'PE A I.
TO liKYHIISi: ATIITIDE
While the railroad presidents would
not make any predictions until they
familiarized themselves with the situa
tion here, there was more than one
indication that it would take a strong
appeal to induce them to reverse the
attitude that has been taken by their
representatives on the managers' coin -
i nit tec.
Asked if the managers would he
backed up in their decision. President
Willard. ?>f the Haltimore and Ohio,,
Maid "I assume they will be."
Two plans are being considered for
the make-up of the proposed commis
sion in case the President's plan is
accepted. The first provides for the
appointment of all throe members, if
lli.it should lie the size of the <<om mis
sion. by I he President, niuf the other
tor selection of one of the members |>y
him and of the other two by the rail
road employers and employees, respec
tively. The plan, as presented by th*i
President to the employees, waj,
