' THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; slightly
warmer; light south winds.
Hlfheit temperature yesterday, 87 j lowett, 63.
Detallad weather, malt and marine reporta on pas I.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 353.
YORK, FRIDAY, AUGUST
1916 . Copyright, 1916, by tho Bun Printing and Publishing Association.
CENT
In Greater New York. Elsewhere
Jersey City and Newark. I TWO CENTS.
t m M A , m c rw I 1
(ii I) e S tttt. IT SHINES FOP. ALL -
; II 11 ..I I ! I I - . - - I,, , .nlll. I . I I . ' '. I -M1SM
18,
IN SIX
DRIVES, FAIL TO
REGAIN
FRONT
Dcspcrato Assaults to "Win
Back Sommc Trendies Re
pulsed by British.
GERMANS EXHAUSTED;
THEIR LOSSES HEAVY
French Consolidate Line,
After Maurepas Victories,
to Drive Out Foe.
FRESH ALLIED GAINS
OX ROAD TO BAPAU3IE
300 Yards of Kaiser's Line
Taken West of Foureaux
(High) Wood.
London1, Aug. 17. After taking
twinty-four hours to reorganize their
broken lines the Germans mado six
desperate counter attacks to-night
upon the trenches the llrltlsh took
from them northwest of Pozlcres on
the Somme front yesterday. The Brit
ish repulsed every one with big losses.
So exhausted were the Germans on the
Trench front that they ventured no
attempts to recover the ground from
the French.
A strong British attack northwest,of
IUntln-le-Pctlt. along lhi road to
Uapaumc, was successful. Tho Brit
tin captured about a hundred yards of
Herman trenches. ThU success brings
them nearer to the villages of Cour
crlrtte and Martlnpulch.
In the nituult yesterday tho llrltlsh
captured 300 yards of German trenches
wet of Foureaux wood referred to In
llrltlsh reports as High wood charg
ing 300 yards front their own trenches
to do mi, the War OfUce reportetl. This
ga.n I In addition to thojo around
Maurepait reported yesterday; !.
In this came attack yesterday the
llrltlsh iijjiIj gains west and -southwest
of Gulllemunt which seriously threaten
the village, which Is on tho road to tho
tallroad town of Comblc.i.
llrrllu'a Half Ilrnlnl.
The German otTtrlxl statement, tele
graphed hero from llerlln. makes a half
ienl.il of the British and French suc
tcses of yesterday. It udmlts uut nnd
cut only that the French gained JuO
yards of trenches near Uelloy-on-San-terre.
at the south of the Somme lino.
About the gains west of tho High wood
and sotith of Mnurepas It says "portion
f the enemies' troops which penetrated
cur positions were driven back again."
During tho day the Germans at
tempted an nttack on the trenches cast
of Slouquet farm held by the Austra
lians who captured Pozlcres In July.
There Is a salient In the llrltlsh line here
hlch to-day's attacks west nf the High
wood were designed partly to straighten
out. Tho Australians turned their ma
chins guns on the advancing German
lines rnd. as the report tays, "nipped
th attack in the bud."
On the French front In the Somme tn.
4y there was a lull nfter tho storm.
Entirely undisturbed by the UMial t'oun
tr attacks the Germans make when a
rise has been cut out of their trenches,
the French consolidated whut they
gained yesterday.
French In Strong Position.
The captured works glvo the French a
better position than they havo had near
Maurepas anil will enable them soon to
force the Germans from the northwet
corner nf the vlllnge, which they still
l.o'd. North of Maurepas the ortlllery
as active during the morning.
A high French military officer, ac
cording to a ilop.ttch receive! here, cm-
rhaslie. the f.,rt that, though the gains''
of yesterday were, from a military view
point, merely local, tho significant thing
i" Hut afterward the Germans did not
counter attack for the first time in the
trench warfare. This ofllcer said the
French losses on the Soinme were no
sherc near as great ns In the Artols
n1 ('hamp.igno drives.
"Never before havo the Germans
fallM to react when successfully at
tacked," said this officer, "and their
failure to do so In this case Is either
gn of weakness or, more likely, due
to confusion of oiders. Tho precision
lth which the French offensive has
t'-'ii carried out is shown by the fact
that every objective designated In ad
vance of an action lias baeti reached.
"At .Maun pas, n certain number of
houses were selected and every ono of
trem was e'aptuied and occupied; It
lever was Intended to nttempt tho oc
cupation of tho entire village.
'ills Losses Minimum.
"One coti.ioipjrncp of this precision In
If Kren h operations is tho riducilon
Joshes to a mlnlmu'ii.
'Tli oieiiitions In Artols nnd In
-iami.iKc com flvo times more than
'l lh ground gained on tho Somme.
r, p'irposr. Is to destroy tho German
loriM and th Franro-llrltlsh defensive
'" has accomplished tho fiat of hold
. " tho vvesteni front tlio greater
l"-.lIe p'.riiou of tho German forces.
It Is fallacious to lliMiro out the
wouahln duration of hostilities on
ttnrn by computing the average
urreen of ground gained per day.
jry tliim an notion tiil(iH jilaco, even
'.sli tlui gain tnay b no more than
''"ndred jatds or to, the opposition
J h'ntci,. n loses heavily and tho
. ,nor;i1 'Kwt cannot bo meas
"rf;l In ards.
"It I. a ciiiiuilHtlvn effect, which
"n or later will wear tho enemy
n so that he win , unable to hold
'n 1 rer.ch gains down to a few hull
4r"l ) anl."
Col, HrpliiKton, inllltary expeit of the
", in reviewing tho situation of the
Cotttlntieij on n'ccoiid Pagi,
TEUTONS
POP;o7RD;5py;KSF
Instincts All Cardinals to Pray That Italy and Her Allies
Be Victorious, Feeling a Lasting Peace
Cannot Otherwise Be Won.
Xotrlal Cable Dispatch to Tat Srx.
noif, Aug. 1". rope Benedict haa In
structed all the Cardinals In Italy to
pray for victory for Italy and her alllei.
Hitherto the Cardinals, following the
Pope's example, have been preaching- and
praying for peace at all their services,
they have exhorted all the faithful to at
tend tho functions of Intercession for an
early peace. Now, however, they will
pray for the defeat of the Teutonic Pow
ers. Cardinal Ferrari, Archbishop of Milan,
and other Cardinals holding; episcopal
sees have publicly explained that the
Catholic Church wants to see a lasting
pence. They are convinced now that no
peace can be lasting unless the war ends
victoriously for Italy and her allies.
They arc urging, therefore, that all loyal
citizen churchmen rhould Join In efforts
to win the war.
Look Favored Italjr.
Italian antl-clerlcals here accused lh
Catholics of wanting a premature peace,
a peace at any price. Such a peace, they
say, would be to the advantage of the
Teutonic Powers.
It has been apparent for a lone: time
that Pope Hcnedlct was leaning toward
me cause or Italy and so toward that of
her allies. Soon after the war com
menced the Pope permitted the Italian
authorities tj recruit all but fifty of the
HOSPITAL SHIP TO
HEAL SULU TRIBES
Rockefeller Foundation Fit
ting Out Vessel for a Five
Years Cruise.
Announcement was made yesterday
by tho Rockefeller Foundation that It
will send a horpttat ship to the Morns
and allied tribes of the Suit) Archi
pelago. Tho Philippine Government Is
cooperating In this enterpr!e. The
ship, which Is being equipped now, will
be sent to cruise for flvo years among
the many Islands In the southern Philip
pine group.
The foundation has learned that many
of the Moros are suffering from skin
diseases, malaria, hookworm, dysentery
nnd other Ills which could ha handled
with success by skilled physicians.
Head hunting tribes In the Philippines
have been reformed largely by the sp
oliation cf education and 'medicine.
with n llttlo more of tin latter than
y!in n llttlo more or tlu latter than
i ,."
u.ttt iiiu .null"'. tii.'i.vin.iiittp vi titc .n-
lay plrateft. whr have rHltPfl txrry
effort of tho Spanish and Americans
to civilize them, can be reached In the
same way.
In Mindanao and Jolo 'the Moros
have been reached to some small extent
lil 115 I
or mldiMi i
by dispensaries, but tho great
the population stands In need
service.
U. S. APOLOGIZES TO MEXICO.
Wllann llxplnlns Delay In Mamlnnr
Cnmnitislonprs,
W.esiiiNiTON Aug. 1". The delay of
the Administration In appointing Ameri
can represMitatlves to the Joint commis
sion which Is to discuss Mexican border
problems has nettled Gen. ('arr.mia
and forced this Government to cable
apologies to Mexico c Its-.
Secretary of State Lansing to-day said i
Special Agent Itodger" had b'en In
formed the Administration was making
special effort to find suitable American
representatives. Mr. Ilodgers was asked
to explain this to farranza.
It appears that Carranza does not
underftand why every phae e-f tin
negotiations Is blocked at Washington
bv protracted dele v. He tinned Ills
commit loners within an hour, but after
two weeks no one has been found win
Is willing to arctpt the PrcUdcnt s offer
to serve on the commission.
it was said to-day that Mr. Hodgers's
explanation of the delay has appealed
Carranza r.nd eliminated the acuti con
cern of thc Administration.
Mi-xlrnn Mlulater
Assured.
Mexico Citv, Aug. IT
Foreign Mln-
ister Auinr said to-day h had re
ceived assurances from Washington that
American delegates to tho Interna-
tional conference between Mexico and
the I'nlled States would be chosen
within the next three or four days,
LONE UNION VETERAN PARADES.
Scrgennt Kirk Marrhra In Wash
ington With All Ilia Medals.
Wvshinciton, Aug. 17. Through the
busy traffic of Pennsylvania avenue to
day, from the Capitol to the Treasury,
marched n vision of a liulf century ago.
Clad in a faded blue unlfoim, eyes front,
shouldering the old fashioned rifle with
a tiny American flag fluttering from the
bayonet, Sergt. John Kirk was cc!eb,rat
pr Uie fifty-fourth anniversary of the
day he marched to Join the Union colors.
Kirk v'lre Congressional medals for
g.iflantry in action, service In Indian
wprs, and his badge as a past depart
ment rommnndcr of the Grand Army In
Pennsylvania. He lives at New Cum
beiland, I'a.
TURKS SEEK CULTURE.
L'OI) Stuilent. Incladlnir One Voang
Woman, lo Study In Germany.
llr.m.i.v hy wireless to Sayvllle), Aug.
17, Two hundred young Turkish stu
dents have presented themselves as ap
plicants for followHlilps In German col
leges, soya an Ovctsens News Agency
Item to-day. The first successful ap
plicants havo started from Turkey for
Germany. Among them Is a young
woman, who will attend a seminary for
hchool teachers In Uremen.
GEN. GOETHALS AT PANAMA.
He Will Arrange Affairs for Ills
Itrtlrement la December.
Panama, Aug. 17, Msjor-Oen, Georgo
W. Goethals, Governor of tho Panama
Canal Zone, arrived here this morning
from the United States.
Gen. Goethals will Immediately resume
work and put the affairs of his otTka
In shape preparatory to his retirement
In December.
Guards on duty In the- Vatican, and a
little, later he broke a precedent by caus
Ing the llorplco of Santa Marta, an an
nex of the Vatican buildings, to be used
a a hospital for Italian soldiers,
Pope Henedlct showed how he felt
toward tho Tcutonlo allies when lie
had Mgr. aerlach. his Austrian private
chambeil.iln. Interned In the Vatican for
a time and then sent him back to Aus
tria. Mgr. Oerlach was accused of falsi
fying tho Pope s words In an Interview
with ft nerman American ncvvipaper
man which Mgr. aerlach Interpreted
ProtearVd for the Belgians.
Pope Benedict also has protested to
Germany against the oppression of the j
Belgians, and only recently protested
again against the deportation of a large !
number of men.
- -m M nnil nhllPAn
civilian occupants of the conquered
northwvttern part of France.
Tho alliance of the Tcutonlo rowers
with Mohammedan Turkey has never
met with the approval of tho Vatican
nor with that of the Cathollo party,
which Is steadily becoming more closely
affiliated with Italian affairs and less
Isolated. This was seen In tho Inclusion
of a Catholic memlSer, Klgnor Meda, Min
ister of Finance, In tho Coalition Cabi
net formed recently after tho fall of
the Salandra Ministry.
This Is the first time since Italy was
united In 1370 that a Catholic has been
a member of the Cabinet. The Pope
was pleased at the appointment.
FINDS A REMEDY
FOR RAIL DEFECTS
P. II. Dudley of N. Y. Central
Discovers a Process After
Forty Years' Work.
Forty years nf expert experimentation
on the most efllolant method of tnami
factutlng isttel rails ciilm.nattd last
ini.ni ill nn nnnnM,tf.i. .1... v A ... .
York- i.niril n... ,,r it.- .re. .. ..
nrocem for inn ..llmlnriilnn nr liM.i.n .i-.i
recti li i-aII. .:,trh Li , . ' i.
fects In rails, wMcli lias been th" chief
cause of the country's railroad wrecks.
The proecfr. It waa declared, lias solved
a problem that ha, baffled exp-n, lnce .
e rallroaj Industry In the United States
The man primarily rerpnnslblo for the I
ocess Is Pllmmun Henry Duile), cen-1
iltlng engineer of the New York Cen- j
stilting engineer of the New York Cen- i
erai line-, wno nas spent nearlv half of
his life In what he modestly termed "the
labor of Ioe" m tils forty rar re.!fl)r u .,rc:ln examination Of this en-
labor of Ioe"
?ercn- ,r- Ul,d"V " yeaia old. and,
search. Mr. llndlev u r ni.i ,.,.)
nas cnnirioutru nt least six important
miciiuuns io uie railroad industry
intrniion Ksplnlnril.
G. W. Klttredgc. chief engineer for the
New York Central, exnl.ilnr.l lir tm,i.
lry'm invention to a SfV reporter last
n,ih, T njLK- or Interior flssurrs. an
they are called, ran nevfr bo vlnlblv do-
tected in the rail. It has only been by
fnllowlnir i.-ieei. ...iinn. ii.i i...
Mr. Dudley in the manufacture of U.o
rail ami then reheating the finished
product In a special plant att iehed to th-
,,.ii..,.. "
hTmorsT ' " Ca" l
Kxten-lv- rxperlntertntlon i.l. tMn'
proce.f. Mr. Klttrede.. .aid. line nrove 1
beyond ail question "that this Is . suro
ay of eliminating every isM-lble defect
in steel rails and It -.a. been found
time the nrner. w ,. .!,.
.iianuiavturrrs will lie to'd nf the new
process, and ways and means
will lie
discussed for putting the method Into
general use."
Mr. TlnilU- .v .ill. I !,..-., . ,i.i., ...
say last night nboit his Invention except
that be: will be gla-l in make It known
to tho world. Among his a.foclietes In
the New York Central olllecs h Is fa
miliarly known in "Dr." Dudley.
Ills Laboratory In n Car.
Ills flrn Important post vva. chief en
gineer of the city of Akion. f )!. nftnr
wh'c'i Ih became chief engineer for the
Volley P.allroad. and later acted as chief
consulting engineer for the New Yo-k
Central s;:o,m, a pon which he luu held
lor man: y
Ill a s:e?'nlly lltte.l tr which Mr.
Dudley calls' hln laboratory home he iia-I
punued lescarcii vvoik. Tills car has
been the home of tin. ,nclrieer and Ills
wife fur morel tluu tlility-threu jear.,
It is divided Into compartments with
deeping roomi, hitting room, a kitchen
and a well equipped l iboratory. Some
times he "parks" tile car outside the
Grand Central station. All the employees
of the company know It as "Dr. Dud
ley's car."
According tn iccent figures broken
tall, caused 3.0K, accident.. In 191,,, th
death of 203 persons, Injiiile. to 7,IM1
nnd a bus of nearly Jl.OOn.foiil. Mr.
Dudley's Invention, to far 11. It haa been
applied on tho New York Central lines,
has already reduced rail breaks from
one. break In Cuu rails to 0110 break in
142,000 rails.
HUGHES TO DINE IN 'OPEN SHOP'
iftrlklna; fsnrn Francisco Culinary
Workers File- Protest,
Unit Francisco, Avar, 17. A written
protewt against tlio arrangement to en
tertain Charles 11. Hughes hern Satur
day at Uie Commercial Club, which dlii
iilays nn open shop e-ard In Us dining
room, was mado to-day by the strlklm?
San Francisco Culinary Workers Union
to Francis V. Kcesllng, chairman of the
Republican State Central Comnilttee,
"We wcs-ilrt rcijue-ot that t'ome niTnnge.
ment bo made to entertain Mr. Hughes
In a manner that will not constitute an
nTront to organized labor of San Fran
cisco," the protet read,
It Is said to bo too Inte now to mike
any charwes In the plans for tlie ban
quet. BIO GERMAN LOSS ADMITTED.
Total Hitherto Unknown In War,
flays Military Critic.
Sptrial Cablr ltpntri foTnr. See.
I.nNPON, Aug. 17. Urlch von Sallz
nntin, military rrlllc nf the V'ossfsrhc
y.ritunp, writing about thc Somme bat
lie, makes the following remarkable ad
mission to-day:
"We can admit without hesitation
that certain regiments came nut of this
lighting with a total of losses hitherto
unknown In the history of war,"
FARMERS THREATEN
Producers Say They Will
"Strike" on Oct. 1 Unless
Frlccs Aro liaised.
STATE TO BE RETAILER
Commissioner Dillon to Try
Plan of Selling Direct
Borden Puts Up Rate.
Word was received yesterday by the
Stats Department of Koods and Market
that milk producers up tho State have
decided to go on strike unless the dis
tributers In the metropolitan district ac-
"do to the demands for agjilgher price.
Dairymen and farmers Insist that the
ne... ra. ... ncorno,,led In their
fall contracts, or else they will quit ship
ping milk here on Oct. 1, at the expira
tion of the present contracts. It Is
understood by the department that
action was taken at a recent meeting of
directors of the Dairymen's League at
Mlddletown. A committee was appointed
at this session to prepare a schedule
of Increased rateu to the distributers.
Commissioner John J. Dillon Issued
yesterday a statement In which ho said
that the plan proposed by his depart
ment to sell milk In thla city has been
approved by producers, and dealers have
already promised to dlscu.'s higher
prices with the department. Mr. Dillon
Insists that the Indications are that vic
tory for the producers Is already reven
eighths won without nny necessity for
higher prices for the consumer.
Commissi ner Joseph liarug.in or uie
Mayor's Iiurcau of Weights nnd Mens-
ures has been making through hi" In
spectors a survey of the milk situation
In the city for the pat nine days. While i
ptniecutlng their regular work of In
epectlng measures and receptacles In
which milk Is slid, they Imve gathered,
much valuable data ns to prices, whnle- ,
.1. nn,l rrt.nll. All their report will .
be turned ocr to Stat) Commissioner '
Dillon.
t'nlforni Price.
eine thine Is certain." said Commls- ,
sinner Hartlgnn, "and that is there Is ,
.-i"i. .... ..n.-.-, --- -
'no uniform price fur nllk lis the tlt.
'-very neinnunrnoou ni- " ... .
We have found out also tnai ns mucii
Moo.o milk Is sold In New York as bot- i
tied milk. It Is sold l.y tne pucnr or
MUk 1 win,"
' on thc Jmo principle- as
pall In grocery stoics, delicatessen shops
?he "l.f 5"ory of the
The mrtio?.
v.j i,r!eve that 1
ind It Is appatently
ble fe lows becom
..t i,.u... n,ui kimo rnmmls-lnncr.
1 j)i0, has u greater power Hum District
i - wmrn.v uirmii or thc Wicks committee
in 01 i.wa ..I-
tire matter, and Dillon Is tli
tire matter, and Dillon is the man w .no
rtnta .li (i t twtlftvn that If Mr. iMllon .
can do It.
... . - -- - .
lexers the Finer of his oWe 1 couhl ,
act as nriMir.iior ni-iwpn w iuwu-i-i
; .. H, rou'.d bring about
la working agreement between these two
i lt.h Interests in the State for the
' benertt of uitate and the city. I he same
Is true of all controverts dealing llli
; fond supplies."
The report of ore or ommissioner
llnrtlcan's Inspectors showe-d thiit milk
e'O't a M'ore or more retitleis from f!.2.1 i
to $.. per c in or forty quart., nils
, ,v,s at ,hc of 7, ,,H ' 'l
,.,.ni n.-r niinrt. The m1 Ik wis sld
The ni'lk wns
- WnVai ai d 7 cents per quart.
JJrlTjJlL"
Thete
im In
then place., the rates ran gins f'in ..
't" ,fn,V ," o t, to he "
, 'T ''e''. ,.. . t ,-rle H end Tir.de
, 'rn'" I " f,': V ... ill ?t an rvelvnAco
I A milk .end lel.illed It at an acuanie
of 1 cent per bottle,
Practical Plan.
Discussing tlm prcpnejl )ilin of his
,ir.,:,riie..iii tn i ell mill: In New York
' cltv. Commissioner Dillon f aid ;
i "The milk Investigation beln;
made
by t'.m WIckB leslshitlve comnilttee and
the siig?etioii that the mil It supply mUlit
be shut off from the city by producers
has undoubtedly ludped cone-ciuraic in-
tentlon to the only practical plan pro -
pored to do Juftl'-e to tin- pioducero and
at the same time protect the cutome!
from on unwarranted Increase in prices.
"Although the depirtment lin. deli
iilKtv stated that It had no Idea of die-
Irlbutllig eNlstlng business, some or I'm
denier, feareil It would ine-lilin pnsem
rondltlou" 'if couti'e It would dlstut'li
' present conditions. Tint Is w lint the
detiartnient is inr, inn 11 in-i-n o-n u
Hub anv Ims'iiesii eiwraged In the ecu
nnmlc distribution of milk.
"The plan needs the dealer" for city
distribution, but it can be operated with
oiit them. The dealers, 011 tin1 other
linnd. need the milk, and they cannot get
along without It. They would be afraid
of a strike, pur nnd simple, because
they know that all farmers will not con
Mime for very long to spill mill; Into Hie
streets after" producing II. Such a plnn
would alienate the sympathy nf con
sumers, nnd. after a temporary disturb-
anre, work to the advantage of the
dealer.
"The people want their mill;. The in
terest nf the producer Is that Hie public
net Its milk and all It wnnts of It. Willi
abundance of milk In the city for sab' nt
a fair price, under State control, llm pen
pic nnd the State will llnd a way to dli
ti Unite it. If t lie dealers refuse, they
and not the farmers are tlie 'strikers'
und new- concerns will gladly take up
the work nf dlFtribulrr. A enulract
(ould probnbly bu made any dav with rc
iponsih concerns for dellveiles at n
much less price than the present cost of
distribution."
Mr. Dillon said be . satisfied tlie
farmers will get more for their milk on
October 1, Milk Is worth more to Hie
producers than they have been getting,
lie ndded. His department has iictu illy
sold milk for several cooperative dairy
association"! at from 20 crnls to to cents
n can above the dealera' schedule of
prices.
Tho Harden company lucre-mod ye
lerday the price of grade A milk from in
cents to II cents a quart, It nl.or.il. d
tlie price nf pint bottles of inlllt from .' tn
0 e-ents. Similar Increase. In bottled pints
were mule by many other milk com
panics several days ago. A number of
dlstilbutcrs have already raised thc price
of grade A quarts.
The llnrden concern explains, through
Its vice-president, H. N, Hiillnik, that
the diminishing margin of net profit per
quart nf milk hnndled by Its farm prod
nets division, which was lo.noid for tlie
year ending June 3i. led the manage,
ment to adjust prices of those products
which least affect the majority. Tho
company declnres It lias no Intention to
"make any Increase In the price of our
regular nine cent milk unless confronted
j by conditions not now existing."
20 CENT GASOLENE
COMING IN 10 DAYS
Standard Oil Officials Say
That Will Bo Lowest
Prico for Year.
3 POINT DROP IN WEEK
Wells Dupr Last Year Now
Spoil ting Oil, Causing Tre
mendous Output.
Gasolene will fall to 10 cents a gallon
within ten days or two weeks. Standard
Oil officials said yesterday. At the So
cony stations about town the gallon
rato was 13 cents, which reprcrcnted a j J
mrco ceni eirop witnin tne last nve eiays. i
Although tho Middle West States were
nelllng garoleno yesterday for 17 Vj
cents, thero In llttlo likelihood of this
reduced llgurc striking New York before
a month. If nt all, experts said.
The explanation for this drop In motor
fuel Is ascribed to the extraordinary out
put of the crude oil wells that were
drilled last year and now are yielding.
As a conscquenco of their exceptional
output In the last few weeks the quota
tion on crude oil hn fatten and with It
gasolene, tho price of which is regulated
entirely by tho production of crude oil.
Standard Oil officials said tho full ef
fect of this crude oil production will be J
over within two weeks and gasolene
prices then will havo reached their
minimum. New wells are being drilled,
but their yield will not be appreciable
In the market of tho near future.
It was denied at 2C Uroadway that the
Government' Investigation of gasolene'
prices is iieponsible either directly or
Indirectly for this reduction. Nothing
done by the. Federal officials had Induced
the corporation to bore more well". The
rtntidanl I drilling Its wells as jjtllckly
as possible ami putting the Hst drop.
outude of r. irmal reserve stock, on the
market,
r fin suit-lie tnt In Pittsburg.
PlTrmiriMi. Aug. IT. llet.ill prices of
g.iynlone hero have been rut 2 rents n
jeanon whiiiii wie i.im mur us.
To
cent. ,i:,y dealers clipped off another
majklng the price 113 cents a gallon.
DEUTSCHLAND SIGHTED AT SEA. '
Wnrren l.tnrr Meets Habmnrlne OB
vfoandland Hanks.
IlosTON, Aug. 17. Tho sighting' of a
large submarine', believed tn bo tho Ger
man merchantman Deutschland. oft the
,iri,n,i ijani,- ia!.t Saturday mornlne was
r,.prtcil ,,y ,iumt,crs of the crew of the'
... . i... . ,
U)rifii unrr nuenrm, wiiicn iirnvcu 10-
nlKhl ffnm Ul paItCP France, via l.iver-I
. i
rriT.
speed
Wallace Potter nf I.ynn, electrician nf
tlio Sachem, i-ald those aboard tho ,
Sachem naw the underwater craft plainly
at a distance of from three to four '.
miles. SjOU after thc submarine sub
mersed. I'apt. P.li hle nf the Sachem said lie ,
was off watch when the Incident ec-
curreiL j
IIID.en .gnln In rrr London. j
Nr.w London, e'onn., Aug. 17. Paul
G. Illiken, vice-president of th" Kartern
Forward ng Company, ("apt. F. lllnsch
nf the Gernv.ni Heainslilp Neckar and F,
Lewis paid tills city another mysterious
l.t to-day. They consulted Waldo K.
Clark. toMdent engineer f tlie new
State terminal; F. Valfiit.ne ChappoH,
cbalrnian of tlie State Harbor Ccinni'..- i
slon, nnd Thomas A. Scott, president of
the Si fit reeking Company, which Is
building tlie 1i!k warehouses on the State
liter for Mnrii'g c.irgoeH of the Uremen
aid nther German mbmarlpes. They
lift the Mol.Ican Hotel late tills after
noon. DENMARK ASKS U. S. SUPPORT.
1 I
Wnnts Aid In HpkuIiiIiib Lost Pro,
luce., Pnrls Teiiii' Sns.
I Paih.i. Aiic. 17 -Tlie rcmps, n-patlng
t iIMIk.tli tin liegritiations for the sale
of tlie Dan.tOt West Indie, to the I'lliteil
Stiitf, fays the question I., gradually
taking on largr proportion, than the
one between tlie Governments Inline
dlately l oncerned and Is bei-cnilng Inter
national. It points out that tlie Danish
F'naneo Minister. M. llrandes. declared
I tlie Government had decided to sell the
Islands because It was feared they might
be taken away by force. 1
Tlie 7'cmp.s says the cession of thej
Islands by Denmark was uudeitaken:
probably with Hie desire of obtaining tlie I
support of tlie I'liltcd Slates when the',.,. romilc attitude of llllliu Itoot, xv th
S.'li'i'sw'g-liolsteln question Is brought I .,,0In Mr Hacon talked before pinking
Imfe re the peace congress nt the end of 1 j.i,, ul.,.son Tho construction teller
tlie w.ii It nddHt ... .., upon thin? y.'Herday was
The sale of tlie Antilles Is therefoie
awakening attention far beyond the
frnnthrs of tho rmall Scandinavian
kingdom."
T'to prnvlnces nf Siiileswlg and Hnl
rteln were taken from Denmark by
Prussia, at tho close of the war of IS04.
They oecupy a position Hiialog.ms to
that of Alsace-Lorraine 11s n source of
hostility In tvvecii their former nnd pres
ent rulers.
GERMAN LIVE STOCK DECLINES,
(ro. 11. Mums llecren.e. In
All
llcndr, ll.peclnlly Pigs,
Tin; Hacii'i:, via London, Aug. 17.--The
lleillti y,'cii'.inii;e(;ei-. Hie German
olllri il organ, a copy of which has b'en
received IlCI", contains the fltllll flgllics
of the 1 mplrevvlde I'.-ittlo census of De
ccniber 1, ll'l.", iiile eeiisus, ccnipared
w'th that of the corresponding elite in
It'll, sliowa ileerciises jp all heads, es
pecially nf pigs, ns follows:
Pigs ilcoie.ifcd by S,0al,0on io 17.2R7.
000 and homed rattle by LMS.ooo tn
20, 1117,000, Horses decreased by 94,000,
calves 072,000 nnd sheep .108,000,
In Germany, according to the census
of December 1, 1014, there were 3.4IL
307 liorsi'S, exclusive of army horses,
und r,, Col, 570 sheep.
British Parliament to ieljonrn.
lxi.NliON. Aug, 17. Premier Asqultll
announced to-day that Parliament would
adjourn on Tuesday cr Wednesday next
until October 10.
Robert Bacon, Senate Candidate.
pHIS picture, snapped In Mexico nnd passed by the army censor,
shows Mr. Bacon (left) conferring with (!cn. Pershing (right),
in command of the punitive expedition into Mexico. Mr. Bacon went
with Dr. R. P. Strong of the Harvard Medical School to the headquar
ters of the New York division of the National Guard at McAUen, Tex.,
early in July to inspect the militia encampments. Mr, Bacon is chair
man of the executive committee of the National Security League and
a member of several other preparedness organizations.
IIIIIIIHnni f. I'.Vyj-Vif.i.Si sal
aaBaBaBaBaBanBk.aai . a : i-. ?en, mwjis
1 f;.
aWe ' . M. f I ta avr T TS, I
I
i
Photo copyright. Underwood ft underRood.
BACON TO RUN
AGAINST C ALDER IN PRIMARY
Choate, Clearwater and
Are Named on Committee Must File Petition
With 3,000 Names by Tuesday.
I: !.. t Uacon, former Anib.usailor to
I'rane'c, jolerday announced his decision
In enter thc primary contest ns a candi
date for thc Republican nomination for
United S'.atea Senator against Hep
rihentatlve William M. Caldcr of Ilrook
lyn. Heyntid this announcement Mr. Hacon
will have rothlng to ay until his petl
t.'nn arc Hied next Tuesday. They inu.t
bear tho signatures of 3,000 enrolled
llcptjbllcun.s of the State.
I'ndcr the primary law there must be
flici with his petition a committee p fill
tlie vacancy should ho die or le-fuse to
run before tlie primary. Yhi- committee.
.! was announced, would be made up of.
Joseph II. Choate, cx-Supreni- Court
Jrstb'e A. T Clearwater of Kingston
and Job 11. Hedges of tills, city.
.Mr. Choate was one of tlie signers of
he llo.it Htatcment In tho prrconvcntlon
.'illation, and Judge Clearwater wu.
friendly to the llnnies organization
when It was In povvei. Mr. Hedges, who,
It Is believed, will assunui direction of
the It icon campaign, ha. opposed the
Whitman crowd and was asked recently
1,; a conference of Uepubllcans to enter
tlie race hlmselt against tlie hitman , Hon votes I'pon hearing of Mr. llacon's lias by 111. netum i!Kiilded ih jii in
aiiilldate, Calder. decision, he cave out a statement declar-' dp'c of arbitration, the chief defence nf
1 lug li" would rather havo Mr. Hacon nsl "be railways iiqnlnst what tiny 1 Ider
Hoot lliprrletl to Aid. an opponent than any other man In the ir jil'-tltlab'.o deuianda for 111, .r.neil
cider Interest yesterday after the
Hacon statement ciune out i-eiiticd
th ;, s.ator Root had told Mr. Hacon
10 mako tlie tight and that the Hoot
llillueiice III the State would be thrown
t him In the primaries.
It is possible Mr. Hoot may come out ,
oieuly In a few day. for Mr. Hmou on
the tlieorv that the primaries should be
- - :
PRISONER LOST IN SING SING,
Ml liny
krnr.-li for I, Her Closes
llnlldliiu t" Visitors.
!iu i:nB nrlsnii whs dosed to visitors
all day yesterday so the search for the
' missing life term prisoner. 1-rani; iira-
bovvskv, mlKlil ne iro.ecnn-u wuoum m
tcrterenc.'. Tho hunt still Is con tlned
within walls, because It H believed" by
Warden Thonia. Molt (Vliorne that he
did not I'scnpe to the outer .world.
Tho prison keepers winked In two
shifts in march if tho lifer. They over
hauled lumber plU'i und peered Into
everv nook and corner Their hope now
I that tbev will bo able to starve him
out, t-o they are keeping an extra rloso
watch on the other prisoners, who they
believe havo been keeping tho fugitive
supplied with food.
When Grabowsky absented himself
he had about K.o In toke-n money of
tlio Mutual Welfare League, which W
redeemable In ordinary currency for
about Jf". Whether he changed II Into
real money Is not yet known.
I'rene-ti Wine Output llonnleel.
Paws, Aug. 17. The wine output eif
191rt 1h estimated by tho .Uoiiifiur I'lfi
role an 900.000,000 gallons, or double
that of 15ir,, and 40,000,000 cations
mora than In 1111.
FOR SENATE
Hinman, Foes of Whitman,
an open field for everybody nnd t'int no
' n.irm poss.bly can ! done so long as
in- ranks close up after the primary
b; tile.
The lloot-ll.irnes element Is cettaln to
pu-h the llarnn eainliilacy In order to
eve-i up old m on s. How many primary
i votei' tliis b-ir.eut can swing remain, to
be seen. Cable- has had almost every
enmity In tlie Staie nominally pledged
to h.m, but till. Mud of support ha. been
known to melt aw.i. Wlilb tin- Whit-inaii-1
'arsons crowd wcie belittling the
ll.u-on inovemi'iil and refusing to e'on
'cede iiti.vthlnc mote than a , nmpllment-
ary vote for Kaon oilier ltepiihlU-ans
. picdli-ted that with i-very Ilepulillcan In
the Stat" wlin was dissatisfied with the
Whitman tttriim rnrtjlll In vofai for him
, Mr iiacoti ,,,,1,1 , M)(Vt . make tlie
light mighty liiterestlt.e: to say the least,
Speaking for his own pait In tlie Ua
con movement. Mr Hedge, said that.
while pel .finaiiy fond eif 1 alder lie be-
lleved Hacon wa the better man and for
mat reason was for mm. .a pet ween
tin- two," raid Hedge.. "Mr. Hacon, ns
a student .'itul haviuj hud experience In
foreign affalts both In the Stnto Depart
ment and as Amba-s-ailor, Is certainly
better iimlllli-d to handle matters on tlie
floor of tlio Senate than Mr. Calder."
I iililet- An.vvers linen n.
Me. Calder wis putting In Ills time mi
the Stale is-t-rdav lonlng in eiicanlza-
I State. 11. be was one of New York s best
..1. 11.., is m - it........ i.,,A..a..i ,..
lo 1 .i 1. ....... 1. ....i..r....i ...111
' lull ill- 11'- iiiiiniiiii'ii ,'i uiii.i-i p., , nun-
tnrv training then. Mr. Calder said, he
might In f.il.nes. to withdraw as he-,
Calder I ad lie.iteu ! Ini to It.
Those In the Uaeiui movement Insist
their Ihtht had nothing to do with the
other places on the ticket . Harvey D.
Hinman lift for homo yesteiday nfter
making it pbiln lli.it ho would not be ,-e
candidate iigalnst Whitman. Hinman Is
for Hacon and will support him.
fin ti.uon ami win support mm
"
j BRITISH CAPTURE SUBMARINE.
1 rniinnl t.lnpr'. Pas.eniiera See
I'rnfl Hi-liiH Towed Into Deal.
Passengers on tho Cunarder Alaunla,
which ri'aeheil port yesterday from Lon
don, said Hint while tho ship was held
at Deal a llrltlsh destroyer, rather tho
worse for wear, entered the harbor, fol
lowed by a IlrltWi cruiser with a dam
aged German submarine lashed to tlio
seaboard. All the craft showed signs
of having bie-n In a stiff sea fight,
The submarine, In particular, which
seemed to be one of tho larger class,
appeared to have been rendered unsea
worthy. TO ANNOUNCE POLAND POLICY.
- -
llukula Will Forestall Autonomy
Grant h- Central Poners.
Lns-ooN, Aug. 17. In a dspatch fioml
Pctrogrml the Ihiily Tclrgraph't cor-
respondent saysi
"It Is expected that the Russian Gov. 1 possibility that the renin i.v executives!
eminent shortly will make a definite pro- and managers, upon whom the burden of
liouiiceiuent on Hn tiollcy as to tlie futuie peace now rests becans" of Hie innlei
of Poland, thus anticipating an expected standing pinctically re.niieil liy Hi
proclamation, nf Polish uutonomy by I President and the employee", may hold
Austria-Hungary and Ueramny.'' Itbtlr ground to th end and dtcld ta
MEN TO ACCEPT
WILSON'S OFFER
IN RAIL CRISIS
Formal Action Will Bo
Taken by Brotherhood
Delegates at Once.
PEESIDENT CALLS
BOAD EXECUTIVES
Managers Obdurate, He'll
Take Up Situation With
Heads To-day.
WALL STREET'S AID
MAY BE ASKED LATER
Situation Again Admitted
ly Serious, Is View in
Washington.
Waihinqto.s-, Au-r. 17. President
Wilson to-day submitted his peace pro
posal to tho C40 delegates of tho rail
road brotherhoods assembled In the
East "loom of tho Whlto House.
The plan will be laid to-morrow be
fore more than n score of railway
presidents, who havo been summoned
to Washington by tho President.
t'pon the acceptance or rejection of
this plan, which is In the naturo of an
ultimatum, will depend whether th
threats of a strlko which will tlo up
the Internal transportation of tho en
tire country are to bo carried out.
Ilnvlng found the m inagcrs' com
mittee cold to hlti proposal that they
accept the eight hour elay, the Presi
dent appealed to the railroad presi
dents and asked them to eomo to the
Whlto House for a conference-.
There Is every Indication that If tlm
railroad presidents sustain their man
agers President Wilson will appeal
finally to tho financial powers which
control the roads, for It Is hbi purpose
to deal with tho ultimate authority bc
forejie gives up his effort.
Representatives of the employees of
the four brotherhoods have tint yet for
mally decided upon their reply tn tlm
President. After le-nving tho Whltn
House they held ;i meeting during
which for upward of an hour they ills
cussed tho proposal, arilving at no
conclusion.
Will Accept It To-dnj.
It Is all open si -ret, however, re
flected In the Jubilant demeanor of thn
members and leaders of the brother
hoods, that the plan of tlie President wl'l
'j adopted by them. They will hold an
other meeting to-niormw iiimniig at
which lliey will take formal action in
tuc way of lu'-ept.-ine e
"The President." said A It Garret
11 ti, spokesman for the employee., 1 1
nlglit, "will have our iply belorn Im
meet, tlie lalhvay executive.- "
Tlie crisis, which f tn ! le.i.lieil In
n'onow, depmil. on the littilinle ,,f th
i.ilhvay presidents .in, I hoard of. 111 111
igeis. The some of pres. den:- of i.i
ndlroad f tems of th i-oiiiiti.v, in n-spoli-e
to a niessngn from tb I'lesiilent,
will be In Wiisliingtoii l.y no, ,11 to.nioi
tow. No hour Ii.m been set toi ihelr
I'llll lit the While llnuie, but ! . r.
pneti-d they will sec the 1'icsiibnt In tlie
uf tcriionn
Th" att. tilde of tlie railway tuan-igers
I. that they cannot ronimciit on th
resilient'., proposal until it has been
I'libmltted to them. It is known tliov
legard the plan .1. a yielding on the p.iu
I nt tin- riesiueut to tne demand, of llm
employee, without 111 bllration. They In
itst the plan will e-on.titute in effect a
;. per cent. Iih'icjfc In ware's and mar'.
Hie beginning of a new- eia in the set.
lenient of railway wage pioblems.
MiilinKrra lle.enl Ai-ilon.
Resentment on the pan of ihe ion-
nr'i is keen. They feel the Pie-ldelit
l as ei.t Ills lot Willi the employees and
wages,
l-re. oeni im 1 . 1 pp 04 on 111s1t11111.it,
i to VV'n.iiioi-tiio tin tiitlwnv llll-A llellttt
--- - ....
'nas 1101 nun in- i-uni u I'miring oil 011
the troubled watci... The board of rail.
way managers was eominandt d to in t
for all the lallroads and wa aiiiie.l Willi
legal powers to that e.'!d. A lalhvay
President can act omy for bis syne,..,
, "' "ly niali proportion of ihe . .ell-
! y executives of tin, country will be In
, asb!"Bb.n to-mo, ,w.
Ul,1,t ,'',n 1"" '"'',',1P!I-Ii(,'l. theiefnie.
( ()ll . 1)lU f lht, f
lino lioard of managers, wno Hive re-
JJ'litVat'ion? ami' uST wlti, ",f
small litimner 01 rauwiiv )iresineiue, inn
railway olllclals profess not to utnlci-
st (lid.
1 v .limn ft. Iln. rnllu.n- iiresutert. .11-
rived to-tilsht they went Into ronfe en, s
with the board of manager, and, in'omd
lug to all Indications, will stand behind
I the 111.
' There weie r.n Indii-atlon. that a. s.
result of their deliberation, three In I
I been any change of altitude on tn nit
of the railway officials. 1 nt the em
trary, the railway executive, slm.v evei
I disposition to stand by tlo m.iliagire
1 and the situation to-night h admittedly
I serious.
. "We have cone over Ihe situation
thoroughly." said one of the ptesldent.
ns be left the confei t nee, "and we agrvn
1 thoroughly In every particular with what
,hThe' railway executives s.i, Miev wri
hold themselves In icadlness to meet the
President at any tltnu he m.iv suggest
1 to-morrow.
liny Offer Legal Heller.
Whatever the ultimate outcome of Hi
Ipiesent e-ntitroversy may l them Is a
