Mm
Faofiei
VOL. 52 NO. 196
TWENTY PAGES TODAY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1916
PAGES ONE TO TWELVE
PRICE TWO CENTS
mm
wmm in upset
10)11
Evening
m
WETOE
4
(i
r
MM
Unofficial View Was That Representatives of Em
ployes Would Accept Propositions Offered By
w Chief Executive Presidents Go to White
House For Conference Today May Hold Out
For Arbitration Principle.
Washington,- Aug. 18, While the 640 representatives of the
faflwaj employes assembled in secret session today to vote on
acceptance of President Wilson's plan for averting a nation
wide strike the railroad presidents and their managers held a
final conference before going to the White House.
The time for the Wilson conference with the railroad presi
dents had been set for 11:30 o'clock this morning but the rail
' road men- found it impossible to be prepared with their state
(ment at that hour' and the time "was changed to 2 o'clock this af-
The employes began their vote on the acceptance of the
President's proposition this afternoon,
' There, were Indications that the em
ployes would vote to accept President
Wilson's ' proposal of basic eight
hour day and settlement of side issues
by a special commission, but the hope
for settlement was endangered by evi
dence that" the railroad president,'
(backing up their managers' commit
tee, were .not, inclined to grant an
'elght-bouf day unless It bed.ecided
! by arbitration andjn any event might
ask President-Wilson lor a, little tim
"m which to think "Wer his proposl-
. tion. .,' ; v " ' '"
President Wilson abandoned today's
. cabinet meetlhr so he could devote all
thto time tovthe crucial railroad situa
Ition. -r. . ' 1 ''
v The railroad presidents want arbi
" ration under the Newlands act with
' ! arbitrates for roads, two for the men
land two for the public. . The disposl
! tion of many of them was "Said today
to be to Insist upon action of that
character and not 'inclined to Presi
dent Wilson's pla)n for an eight-hour
'day unless It can Include an arbitra
tion board. ". ' '
i The presidents are' said to feel that
fthe public will support their offer to
"arbitrate everything In dispute." Oth
I'ers, however, were of the opinion that
lit President WUson chooses to exer
cise his power and '.refused to press
the; men for arbitration it will be dif
ficult for the. railroad presidents v
mntlnns oDoosltion to his plan.
After the employes' meeting had
"been-ln session for an hour one of the
leaders came out and said sentiment
tor; the i President's proposal was by
too means unanimous but organized
opposition to 'the plan had appeared.
Most of them thought the proposition
feood In the main but some found ob-
Section to It. . ' '
"There are about BOO -men In this
.city clamoring for a chance to speak "
aid the leader , who came out, "and
there Is no telling when we will get a
nrote." 1 ', '
t During the morning President Wil
son prepared a statement reviewing
the negotlaUona and explaining why
be chose the plan of settlement based
on the eight hour day.
The statement probably will be given
out later,". ;
W, L. Chambers, of the federal me
diators, went to the men's hall at the
request of the brotherhood officials to
explain some., of the1 features of the
Situation. -"' r ' ; r '
. He went Into executive session with
the heads of the four brotherhoods on
the subject of overtime. In the men's
meeting, the leading objection to Pres
ident Wilson's plan was that If It we e
completed without extra pay for over
time the men demanded the railroads
would contend that, the sole purpose
of the men was to obtain more money
tod not, to get the eight hour day.
Nine Hundred Seek
. ) Army Lieutenancies
'.v . j,V" :. " V- ' ;,
Washington, Aug. 18 Applications
for appointment as second, lieutenant
n the army have flooded, the office of
tthe adjutant general since It became
(known that the service virtually Is
(without officers of that rank and must
obtain-them promptly from civil life.
The war department announced today
that applications received after Aug.
jl5 could not . be acted on in time ,to
permit the applicants to be examined
Son August 21, the date of the first ex
amination. ' Another examination will
(be held early In '1917.
More than 900 applicants win be ex
. amlned August 21. - Even if all are
successful there will remain 600 va-
cancles and cm July 1, 1917, when the
(econd increment of army Increase
.authorized by Congress is added there
will be another big list of places to be
cued. '
' CASE AT WrSfSTKD. V
Wlnsted, Conn., Aug18 The illness
of seven year old. E. J. Stramach, of
Jamaica. I I., who came to High
land Lake on August 6, was diagnosed
i try three doctors today as due to par
alysis. . The house has been quarantined.
raomp ClMlfflEM WTMG
t Y
SEEKS BANKRUPT
PROCEEDING FOR
NEW HAVEN FIRM
George E.' Crawford Alleges
New England Zinc Co. Has'
.id . . Secreted Assets
v Petition .asking -for. Involuntary
bankruptcy proceeding's has been filed
in- the United . States . district 'court
against the New England Zinc Co., a.
$100,000 corporation of New Haven.
The petitioning creditor is George
E Crawford of Bridgeport, whos al
leges that the company has owed "him
for a considerable period mot time
more 'than 8 600. ' He further alleges
that the company has secreted its as
sets - and has conducted Its business
in such a manner as to bankrupt the
company.
- Reference of the matter which was
adjudicated In the U. S. district court
at Hartford, has been made to Referee
John W. Banks of this city. Schedules
of assets and liabilities have not as
yet been filed here. ; '
Though not disclosed In the, papers
oh record,' the petition is said by Mr.
Crawford to have resulted from the
non-payment of a note against which
he advanced moneys. , .
. Little Is known ' here about" the
business of the New Bngland Zlrre Co.,
which was organized In 1911 with a
capital stock of $100,000. The presi
dent .Is Edward T. Halfpence and the
secretary and treasurer. Henry W.
Clapp, both, of New Haven. .
Mr. Crawford is president of the
laundry bearing- his name, and head
of the local Chamber of Commerce.
DEUTSCHLAND
ARRIVES AT
HOME PORT?
Geneva, Aug. 18. A private telegram
received today from Berlin by the
Neue Zuricher Zeltung says that the
German submarine Deutschland ar
rived safely yesterday at Bremen, from
the United States.
JAP WILL MEET
CHAMP JOHNSTON
III NEWPORT FINALS
- Newport, R. I., Aug. 18.Champton
W. M. Johnston, . of San Francisco,
qualified for the final round in the
Casino Lawn Tennis tournament to
day by defeating Harold A. Throck
morton, of Elizabeth, N. J., the ln
terscholastlc champion, .In- four sets,
4 6; 6 1, 6 8, 6 8. In the other
semi-final match, which went . five
sets, I. Kumagae, of Japan, defeated
C. J. Griffin, San Francisco, 1 6.
6 8, 2 6, 6 1, 6-1 and will play
Johnston for the Casino cup. . . r.
THE WEATHER;
Connecticut: Fair tonight and Bat
nrday, light variable winds, most
sooth. .
LABOR LEADER ACCUSES
FOUNDRY OFFICIALS OF
'FRAMING UP' STRIKERS
P. P. Duffy, Organizer of American Federation of Labor,
Says Fight Between Molders Was Precipitated By
Manufacturers to Lend Color to Allegations In Suit.
That the clash between striking molders and strikebreakers
near the plant of the Bridgeport Deoxided Bronze Co., August
14, was "framed", by the manufacturers for the purpose of af
fording ground for the allegations made against thte strikers in
the civ action announced yesterday, is the charge of P. .FC Duf
fy, general organizer of the American Federation of Labor, one
of the men named in the suit. .
"These men proviiked a clash with
strikers who were peacefully picket
ing, as they have a right te do by law,
at the instigation of the manufactur
ers," he said.
"The whole' thing Is a frame-up.
This dispute was engineered to lend
the color of (fact, to the allegations
made in bringing suit.". - '
Mr. Duffy has been In charge of
the laborers whe work . in foundry
shops, during the recent organizing
movement in this city. J. R. O'Learv.
who is also named in the action, has
n't been In the city for two weeks.
"The charges in the suit of the
manufacturers ,are untrue." said Mr.
Duffy. ."They are made for the sur-
pose of Intimidating the men who
wentj out on .strike, to scare them into
returning.
"The Bridgeport foundrvmen know
they cannot get strikebreakers to
work for the wage paid by them.
when they can get from 50 to 76
cents a day working in other cities.
They- are desperate and they have
adopted the plan of intimidation. They
BRITISH, REINFORCED-BY FRESH
TROOPS, DRIVE BACK ENEMY IN
FIERCE ATTACKS ALONG SOMME
' - I :
Berlin, Aug. 18. The British, with
several fresh divisions, launched an
attack on- the German lines north-of
the Somme and succeeded in driving
back the German first line for a short
distance on a narrow front southwest
of Martinpuich. the ' war nffi an
nounced tod ay 4 In other sectors they
were completely repulsed.
Attacks by the French last night, on
an extended front in the Verdun re
gion. east of the Meuse, were re-
milflAri nil alnnv .Ti a . -
- wpt, . nu cAcep L ix L
Fleury, where fighting is still in pro
gress, me war omce announced . to
day. . GERMANS IXSK"POSrnOJS"S.
Paris, Aug. 18 Heavy attacks Were
made last night on the Verri
After violent fighting at Fleury, east
FLYING MEN HIT
HIM, SAYS LYNCH
IN DAMAGE SUIT
- .' : ' .
. Struck by two1 men who were
hurled through the front window of a
trolley car on which he was also a
passenger, Edward J. Lynch of this
city has brought suit against the Con
necticut Co. for $500. In papers filed
today in the- common pleas court
Lynch states that he was riding on
thep latform of a car in Milford Aug.
'6, 191&. ' v
When the car ,, rounded Beard's
corner. Lynch says it was going so
fast that it lurched, causing the pas
sengers to be' thrown about. Lynch
was standing on the platform and he
declares two men, who were thrown
through the window, struck him. He
was badly bruised and bits of flying
Tlass went into his eyes. He claims
'he motorman was negligent and the
ompany should have placed bars
cross the windows for the protection
f passengers.. The suit is returnable
u the September term.
MSHJTIES
think they will so Inspire fear that
there will be no more striking."
Mr. DuS said that the Deoxidized
Bronze Co. maintains an "outside
man" named Thompson and that he
"framed" the fight.
A person said to be Thompson took
five of the strikebreakers away from
police headquarters this morning in
a seven-passenger touring '.car... A
chauffeur, driving a similar car, car?
tied ther est , ; .
George Semon land James Ghost,
strike breakers, of 82 Railroad ave
nue, .and John' Hanlos and Andre
Salko of 114 Davis street, strikers,
were each fined $10 and costs by
Judge P. A. Bartlett in the city court.
Numerous witnesses testified on each
side, but their information was of such
a nature that the court was unable to
judge who started the fight. Because
there was breach peace, he fined all
x It was learned today that the
Molders' union has saved $1,000 from
attachment, because a check on its
way to a bank, hadn't passed the
clearing house. The money had been
used tq aid the families of strikers.
of the Meuse, the aljies expelled the
Germans from cart of the town which
had been captured, says the official
statement of today. Several German
counter-attacks on the Somme front
southeast of Maurepas were repulsed.
' TEUTON iiOSSES HEAVY.
Petrograd, Aug. 18 The Austro
German effort to throw back the Rus
sians in Galicia has resulted in great
losses and met with , no success, the
war office announced " today. The
Russians have pressed forward in sev
eral sectors. ; -
ATTSTRIANS' DEFENSE HOLDS.
Berlin, Aug. 18 Heavy attacks by
the Italians east and south of Gorizia
are reported in the Austrian official
statement of August IB. which de
clares, however, that the Austrian de
fense held along the entire front.
POLIOMYELITIS
PLAGUE CLAIMS
ANOTHER VICTIM
The. 13th death in the polionjyelitis
epidemic occurred today when 15
year old Amelia Pierrone of Newtown
died at 10:30 o'clock this morning at
Hillside home. . She was taken there
last night at ( o'clock from her home
in Newtown. The Pierrone girl be
came ill Sunday and last evening was
brought to this city for isolation and
treatment. Her funeral will be held
this evening and will be private..
The band concert scheduled for
Newtown this week has been called oft
as the authorities deemed it best to
prevent any congregation of chil
dren. Three year old Stephen Vinze of 482
Broad street, was removed to Hillside
home this morning as he is suspected
of having infantile paralysis. t
Pearl Smith of 492 Broad street,
who has been at Hillside home as a
suspected case, has develqped men
ingitis and is reported in a critical
condition.
acDONALD
LOSES JOB
M HILLSIDE
Dr. J. J. MacDonald was
deposed as superintendent of
the home at a special meeting
of the board held yesterday af
ternoon.' J ' s
His wife who has been acting
as matron also loses her posi
tion. They will be suceeded
by Alderman Andrew R. Ros
well of the ninth district and
his wife. The position of su
perintendent pays $1,500 a year
and that of matron $480.
Dr. MacDonald was appointed to
the position of the. old Lakeview home
March 16, 1914, and assumed office
at the beginning of the following fiscal
year, in April. . The commissioners at
the time of his appointment were F.
W. Behrens, Jr., Samuel Harris, Rev.
Matthew Judge, and Rev. John McL.
Richardson. He was appointed as a
physician was needed at the home and
by coupling the positions of superin
tendent and physician, the city would
save In the end.
Whether Dr. MacDonald resigned
on pressure or was "fired," could not
be learned today as President Behrens
of the charities board, could not be
located and other members of the
board refused to talk, It Is under
stood he Is given a vacation until Oc
tober 1, and will then be given a place
with the health department.
Alderman Roswell lives at 6?0 Wil
liam street in the Ninth district where
he has been active In politic for sev
eral years. He Is completing, his first
term in the common councJJ.- Two
years ago he sought the nomination
in" his district and was opposed by
Alderman Charles H. Roder.," ,He de
feated. Alderman Roder in a primary
fight and was successful at the elec
tion also. . During his service in the
council he has established the reputa
tion of being a loyal machine man.
Alderman Roswell was employed for
a number of years by the Bridgeport
Gas Light Cor He has also been busi
ness agent for Fred Eno's at the Union
Business college. Later he embarked
in business for himself and conducted
the Stratford avenue garage at 270
Stratford avenue. He disposed of this
business about a month ago and since
then 'has not been active in business
life. When Arthur F.. Connor retired
as chief clerk in the motor vehicle de
partment of the secretary of state's
office, Alderman Roswell was a candi
date to succeed him but another Ninth
district man, Fred J. Wetstlne, was
picked for the position. .
AMBULANCE HITS
PLEASURE CAR IN
ANSWERING CALL
Goes Out of Commission
After Colliding With Peter
Dawe's Auto
SURGEON'S FINGER
BROKEN IN SMASH
Private Vehicle Is Hired to
- Take Place of City's In-
. jured Carrier
While the ambulance corps was an
swering a call at 8 o'clock this morn
ing, the ambulance collided with an
automobile owned and operated by
Peter Da we, a theatre owner of 1251
Noble avenue, and was severely dam
aged. The small finger of Dr. S. I.
Arankl's right hand was dislocated as
he was thrown forward in his seat.
Dawe attempted to cross Washing
ton avenue ahead of the ambulance,
with the result that his machine was
struck squarely in the side. The
front part of the ambulance was stove
In ' and the transmission was damag
ed. Substitute Driver Alexander Mc
pherson department pharmacist, was
driving the ambulance which was an
swering a call to Wakeley street.
With him on the seat was Dr. Aranki
and as the machine started on the
down grade at Franklin street. Mc
PhersBn says he applied the emer
gency brake and sounded the siren.
As the delivery wagon of Somers Bros,
paint dealers, was ahead of him on the
right side of the road, McPherspn
kept the machine in the center of the
roadway.
At Catherine street, McPherson says
he saw the Dawe machine which was
coming from Main street and was
about to turn into Washington -avenue.
As Dawe apparently saw tho
ambulance, McPherson says that h
believed Dawe would bring his ma
chine to a stop and allow the ambu
(Contlnued on Page Two.)
Exemptions of Retired Officers From Liability to
Courts Martial Would Tend to Tear Down
Whole Structure of Discipline,- President
Maintains in Message Disapproving Measure
Portion of Bill Objected to Was Included!
Over Protests of War Department New Billi
is Introduced.
Washington, Aug. 18. President Wilson today vetoed thoi
army appropriation bill because-of exemptions from disciplinei
for retired officers forced into it by the House conferees, led by;
Representative Hay, over the opposition of the war department.
A new bill will be necessary and may delay adjournment
of Congress. ;.
Chairman Hay, of the House military committee, upon hear-4
ing of the President's veto, said he understood it was because!
of the revision of the articles of war whichhe had forced into-1
the bill over the opposition of the President and the war depart-)
ment. v .
Hay introduces NeW Bill .
Senator Hay followed this announcement by re-introducingi
the bill minus not only the section to which the President ob-1
jected but with the whole revision of the articles of war elimin-i
ated. This threatened to complicate the situation. , ' . j
There have been broad intimations that the revision whichj
proposed to remove retired officers from the jurisdiction of(
courtsmartial was in the interest of a certain retired officer wh;ol
was waiting fora time when he would be immunie from disci-j
pline to make public attack on the army. ' The officer, whose!
name was mentioned in connection with the report was, while
in service, very active in legislative affairs, was very close to j
congressmen framing army bills and tmtil his retirement was'
reckoned as a power in legislation affecting the army.
POLICEMAN GETS
HOLD-UP MAN AS
HE ROBS VICTIM
Suspect Prisoner, Who Has
Jail Record, Has Been In
Similar Scrapes
Bearing a prison record and believ
ed by the pollop to be the, perpetrai."To the House of Representatives
tor of many of the mysterious noia-
ups which have occurred in the city
within the last few months, Thomas
Ross, who gives, his address as 271
State street, is being held by the po
lice while Investigation is made of his
past. He was arrested early this
morning after he had taken a watch
and chain from James O'Neil of 115
Madison avenue and had been chased
several blocks, when he ran Into Po
liceman Patrick Devine. In the city
court today, he was arraigned on the
More- nt theft from person and his
case was continued until tomorrow un
der bonds of $1,000. Ross' partner,
who ls-believed to have obtained a
pocketibook containing J15v when Ross
took the watch, la being sought by
the police.
According to the story related by
O'Neil he was going home about 2
o'clock ; this morning when he was
approached by Ross at Congress and
Main streets. Ross ( asked for a
match and when It was forthcoming,
he Joined O'Neil and walked up main
street with him." At Catherine street,
another man spoke to Ross and then
he walked, along with the other two.
The three then walked to Madison
avenue and up. that thoroughfare as
far as CNeil's house.
v.n wom B.hout to leave them when
he asked where Ross resided and Ross
pointing to a store at 97 Madison ave
nle said "Over there." He extended
his hands to y ooanignt
k inaatoxA of holding them In the
customary way, had them crossed. As
O'Neil went to grasp nis uauu,
grabbed O'Neil by the vest and pulled
him towards him. As Ross am so,
O'Neil felt his watch being taken frcm
his pocket and saw it glitter as Ross
pulled away. ,-.
Shouting lor assistant, y
grabbed Ross and felt the watch In
nocVat. He took tt out af
ter a struggle and then Ross broke
away. O'Neil followed him down
imnnt and several men
omereed from a lunch cart at Main
e e T . -i ..., '-It vnil In- l
.,. TtnM shouted. "If you In
terfere I'll shoot you,- and put his
hand to his pocket as though to draw
a gun.
Ross turned up Washington avenue
and at Catherine street ran nto Po
liceman Devine who was hurrying to
investigate the rumpus. He placed
Ross under arrest but the latter's com
panion, who 4s believed to hae pro
cured the wallet containing the mon
ey, disappeared through Ellis lane.
The police nave rouna out non
has served three years for theft and
are conducting further Investigation
into his record.
Slight Change in New Tork
New York, Aug. 18. The health
department reported only a slight
change in the epidemic of infantile
psralysls today. New cases during the
last 24 hours numbered 125 and deaths
82 as against 121 cases and 12 deaths
yesterday.
Ambasador Page discussed pending
negotiations between the United States
and Great Britain with Secretary ln-
iig.
The President's veto of the bill la
one of the developments of years of
contest between the army and Chair
man Hay. The downfall of the con
tinental army scheme and substitution
of the national guard reorganization'
against the recommendation of army;
officers la ftrlbtedr'-fo him. 'Only.,
the force of President Wilson's inter-'
ference put the regular army Incettse ,
In the new reorganization bill through -the
House in the face of Hay's op
position. Recently,. President Wil
son appointed Hay to a judgeship on
the court of claims' and he now is
serving his last term in Congress.
The war department contends that 1
many features of the army bill were
written Into It in the conference and
never' debated, in House or Senate.
President Wilson' veto message foli
lows:
"1 nave careruny consiaerea icq out
entitled: 'An Act Making Approprla-
tionsfor the Support of the Army for;
the Fiscal Tear Ending June 20, 117.'!
and now take the liberty of returning;
it with my objections to its approval.!
"The bill constitutes an essential
part of the legislation providing forj
the military establishment of the coun
try and wisely and generously pro
vides, for the reorganization of the
agencies, of our national defense, and
it is with genuine reluctance that .1
delay its becoming law by suggesting
the elimination of one of the provisions'
which haa been embodied in the very
necessary and important revision of j
the articles of war which has been I
,added to it. v . , )
The existing articles of war are un-j
doubtedly archaic. .They have not un-1
dergone comprehensive revision for
more than 100 years. They do not al-1
ways furnish the means of meeting
promptly and directly the needs of
discipline under modern conditions and
many contingencies ' now frequently
arise In the government of tne mm- .
tary forces which were not contem-plated-when
the present code was for.
mulated. The relations of the gov
ernment of the United States have
greatly broadened within the 100 .
years. We now have Insular posses-,
nions and nelonal interests far away;
from our continental shores. Both
thl practice of arms and the theory1
of discipline have undergone many
modern changes and a manifest need
tor such a; revision of these articles
as i9 here presented has long existed.
I, therefore, the more keenly regret
to find in the proposed revision of th
articles of war a provision to whlcn
I cannot give my approval.
"The original act establishing' the
retired list of the army referred to
the personnel therein Included as
only partially retired and provided j
that a retired officer should be en- J
titled to. wear the uniform of his;.
grade, should be borne on army reg
anI hnulA Km hlAf tn'tVil
ister and should be subject to the
rules and articles of . war to trial' by
general court-martial for. any breach
of these articles. By the act of July
24, 1876, officers of the army on the
retired list were specifically declared
to constitute a part of the regular,
army, a provision which Is found re- .
peated in subsequent acts affecting ,
the organization of the army; and
other statutes enacted during this
period msde retired officers cf the '
army available for certain class" of ,
active duty in time of peace with their
consent and in time of war without
their consent. By the recently enact
ed national defense act, the authority
of jthe President over retired officers
has been further extended so as to
make them subject to his call In time
of war for any kind of duty without
any restriction whatever. Courts and
attorneys general have In a long line
of decisions, held that officers of the
list on the retired list hold publio of
fice. "It thus appears that both the leg
islative and Judicial branches have 1
(Continued on Pag Two.)
v ...... .
i .
'A
