THE ABIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, AUGUST 18, 191 6
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVI f, NO. )2
TOPRESI
mi
it
RAI
N
ni
w
ROADS
MANAGERS S TERMS OF
PROPOSED SETTLEMENT: CULL
IS SEHT TO RAILRfJAD HEADS HUGHES ON TARIFF AND NATIONAL HONORS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 17. President
Wilson today laid his il:.n for avert
ing the threatened railroad strike be
lor.. the employers' committee ot 041
iin.1. laving found ihe managers' cum
mittcv udament lo his proposal th u
they accept the eight-hour day. lie
apicaled 10 the railroad presidents
.".nd asked them to come to the White
House for a conference. j
1 !iee is every indication tluit 11
the lailroad presidents sustain their j
managers. President W ilson w fll ap
peal finally to the financial powers
which control tlie rouds, for it is his
purpose to ileal with the ultimate au
thority before he gives up his effort.!
The president's plan, which it
expected to be formally accepted
by the employes' committee at a
meeting at 9 a. m., tomorrow,
proposes:
An eignt-hour day as the basis
for computing wages.
Reqiila pay at eight-hour day
rate for overtime.
To refer all collateral issues to
a small committee to be created
by congress on which the em
ployes, the railroads and the pub
lic will be represented.
Acceptance of the proposal by the
employe was forecast ly expressions
of their leaders alter they lert the
president's conference, tine of them
declaied:
"The men would be fools not to
accept it."
The attitude of the railroad presi
dents is not so clear. They began
arriving tonight: all are expected, to
they be given several days, perhaps a
we-k or more, to eoiiBlder their
to. use. If was emphasized by Ihose
of the oftieials who arrived tonight,
however, that all of these plans were
tentative. Two plans aie being con
sldeied for the make up of the pro
posed commission in case the presi
dent's plan is accepted. 'J lie tirst
pio.ides for the appointment of all
three members if that should be llw
size of the ci mmissiou by the presi
dent, and the other lor selection -of
one of the membets by him and of
the other two by the railroad employ
ers and employes respectively. The
plan as presented by the president
to the employes was com hed in gen
eral terms and did not so. into details.
It Is pre posed that the commission
be siven jiower to summon witnesses
anil examine l,e,oks in order to uri ive
at the true cost of the proposed piuil
to the railroads. ' Sirkgeslioiis t:av
boon made that the commission bej
made permanent.
The conference between the presi
dent and the general ccinmiltee of
the employes lasted about an hour.
Alter the mcmlwrs of the commiUee
had assembled in the east room they
were introduced to th president by
A. H. Garretson, their spokesman. In
la short speech. Mr. tJurrctson pointed
' out that the president s pomion in
summt ning representatives of a large
; number of woikingmen lo the While
( House without others pres-nt lor a
discussion cf a labor problem stood
unparalleled.
The employes remained undemon
strative during the remarks of Mr.
Garretson and the president. At the
Violent Fighting on Western British Salient on Somme
-
THREATENED CAR STRIKE
NOW HARDLY PROBABLE
NEW YORK. August 17. Possi
bility of another surface car strike
on the lines of the New York Rail
ways comfiany diminished tonight
when a growing inclination was
apparent on the part of both the
tlie company officials and the
union lenders for further confer
ences in the hope that all umicable
understanding might be reached.
lOi ISSUE OF '
1 5 i ii is i ji I in::,
0PT0C0N6RESS
1 0
CAR CANDIDATE
TOM CAMPBELL HURT
RIDING BRONCHO A T
BARBECUE AT REDLAKE
GREETS PEOPLE
(Special to The Republican) to his side. He was pale and weak and
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz., Aug. 17. Tom suffering. After lying on ihe ground
Campbell, republican candidate for a few minutes, despite the statement
-. governoi, had u narrow escape from he was not hurt badly, it was plain he
death at 5 o'clock this afternoon, when was injured, and he was rushed in an
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,a bucking broncho fell on him at the automobile to Williams for medical
MF.DFORD, Ore., Aug. 17. 'harb s i annual Red Iake barbecue celebration, attention.
K. Hughes, southbound on his 35-! 1'"" miles north of Williams. The L'pon his arrival at Williams, he was
hour ride from Portland to San Kran-' accident followed the successful riding put to bed at the Harvey House.
such as a president hi the L nited ..... . . .
.., 11C .w, ., , U Isnn. Manv smiled hroudlv a
. iMateji, h peaking in the ii:'rre of the , ,
welfare of a nation can make. Hut 't'hls" a" , "chT men. the presl-
1r.m such information as can be . .,;",., v... ,,i:' ,,,.. ..
.eiti eAi'iuuie'i ion irrunfc .ti.ii ..
strike must be averted at any cost
because of the disastrous effect on
gathered it appears that the railroad
picsie'ents. If the managers' lommil-
tee understands them, are unalterably I
. , , 1 -T . t V Z reviewing the situation thoroughly
day or an. thing else out of nand. bui ... . ., ..,..",
ou t. re idv i arbitrate mihin " lth tn" Hma" ""n'tl " rcprtfent-
l""..A'ly.i fl . i?..0?." iMg the employers and the employes
and everything In almost any form or
arbitration upon which ihe employes
snd tliri committee mav agree.
T'.ie rutff.md preaideiil.- ii, is ttn
ib rsto4.d, Justify their H;.nd upon ;he
vrounO of miiint lining the principle
f arbitration, which, if sacrificed in
this Instance, they intenc: to teil the
president, will be destroyed as a fac
tor in the settb'ment of Industrial
dis ule.
If the railroad presidents persist
in that vie v.- and are supported
by the financial powars. on!y Iho
futur can tell the outcome.
With the growing seriousness of the
situation congress began paying mor
re-il .".ttention to the crisis today ami
thero were many Indkinions of Inter
vention tf prevent a nation-wide ti'i
i.p. The conference toninht bet:n
the railroad presidents and ths
managers' - committee deve'oced
further indications that the man
agers were to be hacked up by
their chiefs in the attitudo they
had adopted toward the presi
dent's proposals.
"We have gooe over the aima'ior
thoroughly." said one of tlie presi
dents as he left the conference, "and
we agree thoroughly in verv partic
ular with what the commute has
d.ine."
Tbe s-enernl exectat.on is that the
rolrid officials, after sening tlie
preKent tomorrow, will ask that
he h::d drawn up a plan which he
thought was fair to both sides and
which he hoped would be accept Tly
oth.
The president declared that he be
lieved in the principle of tnc eight -hour
day :ind that he thought the
greater part of tie people of the
I'nited Stales held the snme view.
'ie also sought to impress cn the
men tbat ho knew wli;U it me.int to
ork for a living. He said he had
i learned earlv in life the trials
"making both ends me?t "
Iteuarding the collateral issues. t!i
'resident admitted that he was at
loss to hiv how they sh nlf! be sett
led. If th" iiuestion of overtime and
f'ther problems were left to him. he
n 1.1 ho wiiiiM l.nvA !t uwk for
I co.nml.'sion to help him decide what
voiibl tie fair. 'He added that In his
hflief thre were enough honest ttifH
in the I'nited States o decide tl'es"
nuetiop faiilv ti loh vides and
t h: t they would do so If called upon
At the roncl'ision of the president's
tilk the fo:ir brotherhood hearls
mtrstinred him in order to or;ng out
all the points for the brneTtt of the
rrThers cf the general committee
v ho hare rot been at the previous
'A rite House conferences.
If the men desired, the president
sold I'isf Ijefcre they left, they coula
remain In the room in which thev
(Continued on Pace . Three
SHIPPING AND REVENUE BILES
II RAVE MT CLEM
D
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, August 17. Ad
ministration senate leaders, confronted
by tlie determination of Senator Owen
to piess his corrupt practices bill at
. this session of congress, made an
agreement with the republicans today
which they believe will clear a way for
passage of the shipping and revenue
bills, now temporarily blocked. It was
agreed that Senator Owen might move
to take up hia bill at any time and that
enough democrats would vote with the
republicans against the motion to de
feat it.
For hours today while the shipping
bill was being discussed In monologues
to empty seats, democratic and repub
lican leaders consulted over the legis
lative deadlock. It was said tonight
that enough democratic promises to
oppose Senator Owen's motion had
", been secured to assure what the re
'. publicans earnestly desire, a ost
ponement of action on the Owen bill
until the next session. A vote on the
hipping bill probably will be permit
ted by the republicans tomorrow or
Saturday under this agreement.
The day's developments had served
. to renew hope for an early adjourn
ment of congress when advocates of
he Immigrant bill Injected a nw dis
turbing feature. Senator Horah In the
rourse of a speech on the shipping bill
referred to the need for Immedlute im
migration legislation-.and the resulting
discussion reveuled evidences of an
other democratic revolt.
Senator Hardwick announced that it
was the Intention of Chairman Hmlth
of the immigration committee to call
up the measure before adjournment,
and Senator Ashurst, another demo
crat, said he hoped such a motion
would be made soon and that' he would
not be hound by the democratic caucus
which voted to delay the measure until
Iiecember. 4
During the day there was gossip
among democratic senators that Presi
dent Wilson mli;ta' not veto the bill if
it should be presented to him. There
was. however, no authoritative Infor
mation on that subject.
Mention of immigration diverted at
terition from the shipping bill for sev
eral hours. Senators Dillingham.
Works, Hrady and other republicans
urging passage of the Immigration
measure.
"We should pass this Tdll even'if the
president does not intend to veto
ugaln." said Senator Gallinger, the re
punncan leader.
The day passed without nroirress on
the shipping or revenue bills. Senate
ana house conferees on the nnval bin
however, put that measure Into the
final form In which it will be sent to
ine presiuent lor his signature.
Cisco, talked of the tariff and the
rational honor today to crowds which
assembled at stations ul ng the way.
!-'ri m tbe rei'.r platform of his car
the nominee made four addresses at
Riddle, Roseburg. Crams I'ass and
here. In euh he also summarized
his stand on preparedness, protection
oi Anieriian rights and industrial co-
operation.
by Governor Hunt of a wild bono. , doctor, who was called, found the
Higlit men had been thrown by the lumbar muscles were strained and that
burro, none being able to ride it un- the horn of the saddle had injured
saddled. Kd. Route owner, persuaded Campbell's breast and tore his cioth
the governor to ride it saddled, and the ing. This injury is not erious, how
burro made no attempt to throw the ever.
governor afler saddled. Jim Smith. a n the advice of the Physician that
cow puncher friend of Campbell's, : the high altitude and change of cli
seeing the governor riding a burro be- mate might cause serious results.
fore a cheering crowd of two thousand ; Campbell will leave Williams for
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. IT. A bond
issue of I13u.uuy.liui)v to meet extraor
dinary government expenditures due to
liie Mexican situation, was unexpect
edly referred to congress tonight by
majority members of the senate fi
ance committee with Ihe concur
rence of the treasury department.
The bond issue is urged in the re
port of tlie finance committee demo-
tats filed in the senate today on the
io.i.uoo.uiio revenue bill, in addition
to the proposed issue and the revenue
hill, the finance committee asserts that
further appropriation of x&6,000.Mil
ill be necessary to defray the ex
pense of operations tn the Mexican
emeigency. if conditions on the liorder
continue as thev are now afler Iiecem-
ber 31, 116. The I13u.iiu,tlt0 to be
provided by the proposed bond issue,
ihe report says, will meet Mexican ex
penditures only until the end of this
calendar year.
Accompanying the finance commlt-
e majority's report, submitted by
Senator Simmons, was a general state
ment from the treasury department.
stimating disbursements for the fiscal
year lil? at .Z,.H J.iiOfl, and receipts
j2,UOo,00.
"The total appropriations for the
fiscal year 1917. exclusive of those car
ried in the so-called shipping bill,
which is to be defrayed by the Issu
ance of Panama bonds, will exceed the
appropriations for the fiscal year 1816
by about Uti'J.tMiO.ODU. savs the re
port. "This increase is represented
principally by lS7.iUO,0oi additional
appropriated for the navy, H6ti.iMJ'i.niiu
additional amount appropriated for the
Rimy, 120.000.000 additional amount
lppropflated for fortifications. $41,-
niin.ooo for deficiency appropriations
about $33.000,uoi of which is due to
he Mexican situation and increased
requirements of the aim)' and navy
and 0.o(jo,000 for a nitrale plant.
which is a preparedness appropriation.
The Increase In the appropriations for
the fiscal year, other than for these
extraordinary purposes, is not beyopd
the normal Increase.
"But for the additional expenditures
made necessary lo defray the cost of
preparedness, the Increased revenue
to be raised by this bill would not be
necessary and the estimated receipts
under the present law would Iw con
siderably in excess of the estimated
lisburscment for the fiscal year 1917.
In this connection, attention Is called
to the fact that $1'1,(ioii.0ihi of the nor
mal increase for the present flscial
year, represents the amount appro
priated for rural credits and gooil
roads.
"In a statement furnished your com
mittee August 17. li16, the treasury
department estimated disbursement
for the fiscal year 1917 at $1.12.243.
000 and estimated receipts for 1917 at
1762.000.000. making the excess of dis
bursements over receipts $364.24:1.000.
This total includes appropriations
amounting to about $130,000,000 to
meet extraordinary expenses and dis
bursements incident to the Mexican
situation, the mobollzatlon of the na
tional guard and the operation of our
troops along the border and into Mex
ico for the six months ending Decem
ber 31, 1916. Should this condition
exist beyond that time, a further ap
propriation of $,S6,00U,0o0 will be nec
pssa ry.
. "In the opinion of your committee,
Concurred in by the treasury depart
ment, this later sum, namely $130,ou,
000, should be financed by a bond Is
sue This would simply be following
At Riddle Mr Heghes decl ired that ' l"lde. hoisted Campbell into the sad- I'hoenix tonight. He should arrive
. ..n 11 l.K..i... ...i.l. (J.!.U ...1.. I.. .1.. i 1 !..
"a depreciation In American repute,
I i a "policy of vacillation," ha 1
brought the country nearer to war
than it would have been had "a. film
and consistent policy'- been main
tained. "Those who think we are decadent
and weak and haven't got the old
indomitable spirit are veiy m.ic'i
mistaken," he said. "They do not
represent the country."'
In his address at Grants I'ass, Mi'.
Hughes defined "dominant American
ism'' as follows:
"We must have a good drive afoot
and there is no renson why in this
country with its ability and natural
resources we should not have per
manent prosperity To do ih-t we
must look alter our own. That is
what 1 mean by dominant Americanism-
able to take care of American
Interests.
"In addition to that We want ;ilso
und you., cannot l.ave much -of u na
tion without It an intense r gard for
cur national honor and a dispooilto.i
lo maintain it- I am solicitous to
preserve tK'Jue and good will. W-
want the friendship of .ill the nations
of the world. They are very friendly
disused to is. Rut if we are to keen
rut of trouble we must resiwct our
selves and others must resjiect us. i
There is no safe guarantee of peace'
when other, twgin to see how much
thev tan trifle with vou and you de
ride von won't stand it Thev have
got to know you mean what yon siy.
and in '.l ings which vitally concern
yon that you are prepared to main
tain them. That Is good American
Ism. It will slve us pp ice with hon
or. That Is- nh.it Am"'!a wants."
In hi. address at Roseburg. .V
Ilurhs said:
You must have lovalty to the Pae"
snd unswerving lovaltv to tbe jrhi-
iples of oir Institutions. You mn't
have a keen appreciation of what
American opportunity means and
whit vou must do to preserve U
Yom must preserve It by encourntinR
every American achievement Ton
mut be sure we do not leave un
used the national powers which will
give p. national prosperity.
Mr Hughes was wcomnanied or
Ihe trio f'nm Eorllind hv Ch"te-
Rc.vell. former' progressive nnliiHl
c mmitecn:in f'om California nnd a'
present a member of the rnp-ihli-ar
national rpmnaitin committee
The nominee .ivnt most of todav
renting. He said he felt "bully" am'
hut his voice v.as Improving.
die on his broncho, with Smith riding there early in the morning, as he is
bareback behind. As the crowd began scheduled to start on a statewide tour
cheering, Smith spurred the unlmal. from I'hoenix by auto tomorrow. Re-
which reared straight up and fell bark sides the governor and Campbell,
on top of Campbell. The horse soon Ge orge olney. Wiley Jones and Krank
got up and friends of Campbell rushed Curlcy spoke at the celebration.
DEUTSCHLAND, PERHAPS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i sighted, tii" sienmer was turned to
iMSTON", Aug. 17. The sighting ofw:,ni ,h" Sachem's officers be-
a laW submarine Wlicved to be thej mmrte later
G-rm..n merchantman !e-.uschian, j tne submarine submerged and she
off the Grand R.i:i!:s Saturday was (was not seen again,
revolted by menilers of tic crew ot J The quartermaster said that on her
the Warren liner Sachem, in tonight ! second day out from France the
liom l.a Rallne. France, and River- ! Sachem was '.ursued for eight noun;
pool. Tbe submersible was traveling j by two suumarines. believed to be
in a northeasterly direction at mod- German. The Sachem, making 14
orate speed. knots an hour, succeeded in keeping
Stum ,ftr tl e .ti'.m.trJne was out cf danser.
I
If, I
T T T TO
STRAIGHTEN OUT BE- GATHERING
T 0
11
(Continued on Page Two)
To Repeal Industrial Act
and Abolish Commission
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., Aug.
1". The Colorado Federation of Labor
In convention here today adopted unan
imously a resolutoln demanding the
repeal of the state Industrial act and
the abolishing of the state industrial
commission. The resolution declares
that the rights, liberties and interests
of labor are jeooardized under the act
and that the wisdom and Judgment of
the officials of labor may be lightly
waived aside b" the commission as It
sees fit.
woiKerg will not relinoulsTi the
right to strike whenever that couse
may be deemed advisable," the resolu-
sranic laws of the United States."
Ry a vote of !i5 to 27. the convention
adopted a resolution in favor of the
"beer" amendment. This provides for
the manufacture and sale In Colorado
of beer In original packages. The
brewing Interests were sponsors of this
resolution and the fight against it was
led by delegates from the bartenders'
union.
Rose Winslow of Pennsylvania,
formerly a factory girl and now an In
spector for the Consumers' League,
made an impassioned appeal to the
convention for organized labor to urge
passage by congress of the amendment
for wcitnun aiifl'mtra The convention
turns state, and we shall resist to the will vote on the suffrage question to
Utmost any attempts of tie industrial morrnnr ltnlon leaders mo i.l InnlL.ht I in t ...,,,
commission to wrest from us any of that tlje vote would be against the shot a month
loose riguis guaranteed us by the or- amendment.
Rain Doesn't Hinder
RMSKIH'KG. ore.. Aug. 17. In spite
of the rain which fell steadily during
th? forenoon, the train carrying
Charles IC Hughes, republican nomi
nee for president, was gieet.-d at
every station at which il paused in
southern Oregon today by large
crowds.
A' nmuv small stations the train,
which left' Portland last night for San
Francisco, did not ,stop, although at
almost rU of them groups of people
had gathered, hoping; to get a fclimp.'.r
of the presidential candidate,
At Oakland. Ore., a three-miniitr
stop was made while Hughes shoo!
hands with as many as count react'
him. At Sutherlin the candidate':-
wife v:ts presented with r. large hou
nnet of roses.
The first rear plntfntm speech of
the day was delivered by Huf hes n
Poscburg, where the train stopped for
fifteen mint.'tes. He dwelt norm the
subject of Amcricmlsm pnd the tnrift
He also spoke briefly at Hevrs.
o- -
Negro Admits Has
Slain Three,Wishes
Had Been More
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LAKF. CtlARI.KS. Ln.. Aug. 17-.
H el Ire Carriers, escaped convict and
murderer, who was captured today
ufter a man hunt of several weeks,
iidmitted, according to the district
attorney. Unit he had killed three
persons in the lasf year and regret
ted he had not killed more. He wa
not expected to recover ."rom gut
shot wounds Inflicted by r.ls captors.
a sheriff s posse.
t art let e said his victims were
Sheriff Swords of St. Lanrirv Parish
and two negroes. One of the latte
was a boy whom Carrlere believer
was about to reveal his hiding pine
snenir swords wa
ago near opelonsa
when about to arrest the fugitive,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MKIihihll. Ore. Aug. 17. 'h;'.i les
K. Hughes, on his way lo San Fran-
m o t'rom Portland. was calleu
t pon today by Chester II. Powell, or
1 resno. Cab, a memlier of the repuo
lican national campaign committee,
to adjust as far as possible during
Mr. Hughes' stay In San Francisco
a factional fight in California tH
twcen progressive and republican
lea ders.
Mr Rowell told the presidential
nominee that Governor Johnson, of
California. . progressive leader ami
Hughes sjipporter. had not been in
vited to attend the meeting tomor
row plgltt in San Francisco at which
Mr. Hughes vvi'l KjM?nk. and thae
members of the arrangement com
mittee had told Mr. Rowell that Gov
ernor Johnson s presence at tne-
meeting wis "highly1 undesirable."
:o'ernor Johnson. Mr. Rowell told
the nominee, had so arranged his
itinerary that he would not be in
San l-rancisco tomorrow n'gnt.
Dining his stay in San Francisco
over Suttrrlay, Mr. Heghes will con
fer vth erpuhhenn and progressive
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
For the first time in weeks no
change of importance was reported
in any theater of the war Thurs
day. The most violent fighting
took place on the western end of
the Brrtish salient on the Somme.
Six times the Germans advanced
in force in a desperate effort to
bend back the British lines north
west of Pozieres. London reports
that all of these assaults were re
pulsed with heavy losses and that
the British in turn captured about
100 yards of trenches northwest of
Bazentin.
An interesting feature of the
situation on the western front is
that the Germans, contrary to their
usual practice, have so far made
no attempt to deliver a counter
attack in the region where the
French and British claim to have
captured nearly three miles of
trenches. The French are busily
consolidating their gains and re
port no action of importance on
any section of their front, includ
ing the Verdun region.
Some mystery exists as the sit
uation on the eastern front. For
two consecutive days the Russians
have confined themselves to the
statement that nothing of impor
tance has occurred. The Austrian
and German war offices have .been
almost equally uncommunicative.
The only fighting mentioned by
Vienna was the repulse of the
Russian attacks on the lines of
General -von Boehm Ermolli, who
is in command of the Teutonic
forces retiring from the Tarnopoi
front. Berlin reports the repulse
of Russian attacks south of Brody.
The lull in the Italian operations
against Triest is unofficially ex
plained from Roma as due to Gen
eral Cadorna's desire to straighten
his lines before proceeding with a
general offensive against the great
Austrian seaport. Austrian sea
planes have again raided Venice,
bat Rome says they caused only
slight damage.
Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
!".!. PASO, Aug. 17. Mariano Tain?.',
who, with a number of members oi the
garrison and civilians, left Juarez re
cently with the announced intention
of joining Villa, has brought between
iOO and 300 men under his standard
and is encamped about five miles south
of Villa Ahumada, eighty-three miles
from ihe frontier, according to un
confirmed reimrts here tonight. Tames,
according to the reports, which mili
tary authorities in Juarez refused to
comment upon, is making no attempt
to conceal the knowledge of his where
abouts. General Francisco G.yiazles, com
mandant of the army or northern
chihuahua,' who returned today from
Chihuahua City, detailed his brother.
Colonel J. Gonzales, with about two
hundred men, to investigate the re
ports.
The heaviest downpour of the pres
ent rainv season, accompanied by an
unusual eleetricul display, drenched
the army camps hrre ti ls evening and
did considerable minor damage. The
Pennsvlvania division, which is en-
(Contlnued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two,
CARRARA TO SOON DISPOSE
OF CONFISCATED PROPERTIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MF.XICO CITY. August 17. General
Carranza will soon issue a decree es
tablishing a criterion for determining
which of the properties confiscated ny
the government shall be returned to
the owners and which shall be finally
taken over by the government.
The standard was baaed upon the
varying degrees of the political or
criminal activity of the owners against
the government, the culpability of the
highest leaders, such as Generals
Huerta, Diaz and Mondragon, being
conisdered such as to make the chances
of their property reverting to them or
their heirs absolutely negligible.
Properties of persons of no great po-litle-al
responsibility are being returned
among such properties being those of
Sofia Romero Rubin Kllzaga, sister-in-law
of the late Porfirio Dial.
The Joint commission that will make
ah Inventory of the Mexican Railway
company preparatory to the return of
the line to its stockholders by the gov
ernment, wiU begin work August 21.
The government issued orders today
to all employes to aid the commission
in its work.
Material necessary for the operation
of the line by the company will be
loaned by the government until the
company can replace it. Cars belong
ing to the company and now being usetl
' by other lines will be returned. After
September 1 a reciprocal charge of 50
cents Mexican gold daily will be made
for the use of cars. As it Is Impos
sible for the company to run night
trains at present, the government will
use the . company's Pullmans for one
year unless the government can make
arrangements for cars with the Pull
man company. The national treasury
will issue instructions for the closing of
all accounts by August 31.
Germans Fail to Re-act
PARIS, August 17. "The operations
on the Somme yesterday were merely a
detail or the offensive and of only local
liearing," a high military officer ex
plained to the Associated Press today.
"Never before have the Germans
failed to re-act when successfully at
tacked and their failure to do so in this
case is either a sign of weakness or.
more likely, because of confusion of.
orders.
"The precision with which the
French offensive has been carried out
is shown by the fact that every ob
jective designated in advance of an
action has been reached. At Maure
pas a certain number of houses were
selected and every one of them wa.i
captured and occupied: it never was
intended to attempt the occupation of
the entire village.
"One consequence of this precision
in the French operations is the reduc
tion of losses to a minimum. The op
erations in Artois and in Champagne
cost live times more than all the
ground gained on the Somme. The
purpose Is to detroy the German forces
and the Franco-British defensive also
has accomplished the feat of holding
on the western front the greatest pos-
ao.ie- ioiiioii oi ine vierman iorces.
It is fallacious to figure out the
probable duration of hostilities on
French soil by computing the average
surface of ground gained per day.
every time an action takes place, even
though the gain may be no more than
a hundred yards or so, the enemy is
beaten. It is a cumulative effect
which sooner or later will wear the
enemy down so that he will be unable
to noio tne rrench gains to a few
hundred yards."
Germany's submarine warfare
against merchant ships is again in full
swing, according to the naval expert
of the Temps. The Temps declares
that this new submarine campaign
follows the German note to the United
States of February 10, in which it is
said:
"Merchant ships carrying guns can
not be considered as peaceful ships."
According to the Temps the Ger
mans now are acting under this notice
and says that three days ago the Ital
ian snip Plata repulsed with gunfire
attacks of an enemy submarine. The
article concludes wnn an emphatic
declaration that a similar course will i
be followed by other commanders of all
merchant ships, undismayed by "the
murder of Captain Fryatt."
Attacks are Repulsed
LONDON. Aug. 17. Six determined
German counter attacks on the British
trenches northwest of Pozieres were
(Continued on Page Two)
Take Further Steps Toward
Conserving White Paper
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wirs, '
NEW YORK, Aug. 17. The board of directors and the paper commis
sion ofi the American Newspapers Publishers' association met here today
and took steps designed to bring about further reduction in the consumption
of news print. The following telegram was sent to all members:
"Production of news print is at its maximum and there is no surplus
stock on hand.
"The demand will soon increase with no hope in siqht of supplying suf- '
flcient to meet it. Monopolistic prices now prevail and will increase unless
demand is immediately reduced to a point well below production.
"The only way to accomplish this is for you and every publisher dras
tically to do so by reducing the number of pages printed.
"Reductions to be effective must be made immediately. How much will
you reduce consumption?
(Signed) L. B. PALMER .
For American Newspaper Publishers' Association.
