r
4h
9
MARKETS
' UZATHER
II El vNoriMY -xiNioM- rA: Frjd
gen.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price cf cop
per for week ending
Aug. 9, 25.40.
nfj fc3 FJi r.i
'fair, somewhat
:o.
warmer.
Associated Press Special Leas ?d Wire Service.
VOL. 19. NO. 71.
EISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, AUGUST 18, 1916.
PRICE HVE CENTS
LWAY
HURRY
10
WILSON
v
MANAGERS DECLINE PLAN OE
PRE3IDENTWH0APPEALST0
HIGHEFI 0
President Appears Determined That the Court of Last Re-
sort Shall be Appealed to Before the Threatened Rail-
way Strike Can be a Reality. Railway Presidents Will
Arrive in Capital Some Time Today.
Employees' Committee Likely to Endorse Wilson's Plan To
day. They Declare They Would Be Fools Not to Accept
It Appeal to Financial Interests Owing Roads Possible if
Presidents Do Not Agree to the Proposals.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON'. Aug. 17. President Wibon today laid his plan for avert
ing the threatened railroad strike before the employes' committee of 640 and,
having found the managers' committee adamant to his proposal that they
accept the eight-hour day, he appealed to the railroad presidents and asked
them to come to the White House for a conference.
There is every Indication that if the railroad presidents sustain their
managers. President Wilson will appeal finally to financial powers which
control the roads, for it is his purpose to deal with the ultimate authority
before he gives up his effort.
The president's plan,' which is expected to be formally accepted by the
employes' committee at a meeting at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning, proposes:
An eight-hour day as the basis for computing wages.
Regular pay at eight' day rate for overtime.
To refer all collateral issues to a small committee to b created
by congress on which the employes, the railroads and the public
would be represented.
Acceptance of the proposal hy the employes was forecast by expressions
of their leaders after they left the president's conference.
One or them declared:
"The men would be fools not to accept it"
The attitude of the railroad presidents is not so clear. They began ar
riving tonight. All are expected to be here tomorrow. No one can say
w';at will be the effect of an appeal such as a president of the United States,
speakinr in the welfare of a nation, can make. Hut from surh information
as can be gathered it appears that the railroad presidents, if the managers'
committee understands them, are unalterably opposed to conceding the eight
hour day or anything else, out of hand, but are quite ready to arbitrate any
thing and everything in almost any form of arbitration upon which the em
ployes and the committee may agree.
" If the railroad presidents persist in their view and are supported by the
financial powers, only the future can tell the outcome.
With the growing seriousness of the situation, congress began paying
more real attention to the crisis today and there were many indications of
intervention to prevent a nation-wide tie-up.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 The con
ference tonight, between the ra'li'oad
presidents and the managers' com-j
iiiittee. developed further indications j
that the managers were to be hacked '
up by their chiefs in the aUit'ii'e tl.c,
h.id adopted toward the President's
proposal.
"We have gone over the situation
thoroughly," said one of the presidents
as he left the conference, "and we
agree thoroughly in every particular j
with what the committee has done." j
The general cxpectat.'ju is that the
ranroau omciais, aner be-ring (
President tomorrow, will ask that .
they be given several days, perhaps
a weeK or more, 10 consiue r uini
T . .. . . . . 1 . -. . i -, . . .1 ,r tVincO I
cuuie. i. t-ifua.iu ij ...... I oiner prooiems were ieii 10 nun, i.e?
'of the officials who arrived tonight, I saij ne WOuld have to ask for a coin
however, that all of these plans were i mjSRion to help him decide what
t.kntitit'f) I i .i v. r.. :
.
To plans are being considered fori
me mane up oi pi uiju ii minima-
sion in case tne i-resiaeni s pian is
I
18
accepted. The first provide, !r the
appointment of all three members ,f
that should be the size of the com
mission, by the President, and the
other for selection of 'one of the mem
bers by him and the other two by
the railroad employers and employes
respectives. The plan was presented
by the President to the employes and
was c'juched in general terms and did
not go into details.
It is proposid thai tne commission
be given power to summon witnesses .
and examine them in order fj arrive
at the true cost -of the proposed plan
to the railroads. Suggestions have
been made that the commission be
made nermanent.
The conference between the Pres-
ident and general committee of em-1
ployes lasted about an hour. After
the members of the committee had
assembled in the east room they
wfre introduced to the President by
A. 15. Garretson, their spokesman.
In a sh.rt sppec-h, Mr. Garretson point
ed out that the President's position
in selecting representatives ol a large
number of working men to the White
House without others present for a
discussion of a labor problem stood
unparalleled. The employes remained
undemonstrative during the remarks
of Mr. Garretson and the President.
At the conclusion of the meeting they rlrom tie rear platrorm oi ins car
formed in line and shook hands with the nominee made four addresses
Mr. Wilson. Many smiled biViadly as nt Riddle. Rosehurg, Grant's Pass and
they left the White House. In his here. In eac h he also summarized hU
talk to the men. the President ex- stand of preparedness, protection of
plained his feeling that a strike niu:;t j Americ an rights and industrial co
be averted at any cost because of the operation.
disastrous effect on the country. He) At Kiddle. Mr Hughes declared that
then said that after reviewing the "a depreciation in American repute,"
AIO nrnnSnn
flLb t)E HUAUb;
situation thoroughly with the small
committees representing the employ
ers and the employes he had drawn
up a plan which he thought was fair
to both sides and which he hoped
would be accepted by both.
The Tresidont declared he he: loved
in the principle of the eight hour day
and that he thought the greater part
of the p.jpiP 0f the United States
ne,j a similar view. He also sought
t0 jmpress on the men that he knew
wnat it meant to work for a living,
He said he had learned early in life
tne trials of "making both ends meet".
Regarding the collateral issues, me
president admitted that he was at a
j.,ss to sav now they had been set-.
tP(j If the question or overtime ana
., i i i r. . , ; . '
.UU. ....
At the conclusion of the Presidents ;
taiK tne iour oroinernnou neaas ques-
tinned him in order fj bring out all
. .
tioned him in order fj bring out all i
tne pojnts for ,he benefit of the mem.
bers of the ,enPral rmnlisSi who
have not been at the prev.us hite
House conferences
If the men aesired the President
saiu, jusi Deiore uiry icii, int- coinu
remain in the room in which they
,1,
had assembled and decide whether
they would approve or reject his
proposition. He was willing, he said,
i to withdraw and let them come to a
decision. Mr. Garretson thanked the
prPSj,iPnt but
explained
that he be-! ,
ijPVPl jt would be best for the men
to go to their hall r.vr a meeting.
I When they left, the men were in-,
i vited to shake hands with the Pres-!
ident. When about half of them had
done so, W. S. Carter, head of the
enginenien noticed Mr. Wilson wincing
tContinued on Page T-"o.) i
Four Points in
(By Review Leased Wire) !
MEDKORDfi Ore., Aug. 17. ( has. brought the country nearer to war '
K. Hughes, southbound on his 35-hour than it would have been had "a firm
ride from Portland to San Francisco, and consistent policy" been main
talked of the tariff and the national tained. "ThosP who think we are tie-1
Jionor today to crowds whic h as- 1 cadent and weak, ad have not got I
semhled nt stations along the way.
Plan Vigorous Campaign Against Spread of Epdemic
DnoncD e t at nu may tnnp
llUfillUiH lillil IUIIUL
RnVFRNMFHT Tfl IKIIF RI1UIK
uuil.iiiimii.iii iu iuuul. uuuuu
OF SPPilttlElI Mild
j
P A f T P A I
- JJJJj JrtL
i
Ass't. Chief Engineer James
A. Lewis, Jr., Meets With
Terrible Accident While at
Work in Junction Shaft
50-POUND BOULDER
CRUSHES HIS SPINE
Rock . Loosened by Blast
Comes Down on Him,
Bringing Injury Resulting
in Fartial Paralysis.
IS MORTALLY
INJURED BY
CAVE-IN
j pense of the operations in the Mexi- i wes.'rn Russian torces in southeri; I
James A. Lewis, Jr., assistant fan emergency if conditions on the i ,:,ni1 an(J G.iliciu that the Germans
Chief Engineer of the Calumet & Ari-1 border continue as they are now aft- . are 'n dan rer of a flanking movement
zona Mining Company, was critically er December 31, 1916. The $1:50.000,- 'from the south and the automatic re
injured yesterday morning in the 000 to be provided by the proposed tirement of the forces opposed to the
l.HOO-level of the Junction shaft, bond issue, the report says, will mer Russian center.
While attending to his official duties I Mexican expeditures only until to the ' Notwithstanding the desultory
which includeed the sampling of Vire Pnd of this calendar vear. i bursts of acthity at various points.
dislodged by blasting during the night. I
ha n ...... i I ...I K. foli;. 1.
he was assailed by falling rock. A
boulder weighing about tifty pounds !
struck him in the back crushing ;
section of the spinal column and al-1
most severing the spinal cord.
Men w'orking nearby rushed to the
rescue. Thev uncovered the voi'ng j '', . "', ' . ,
engineer and he was carried to the ! 1 he to,al appropriations for the
surface. Although paralvzed below j flscal 'ear 1917- '"l"ive of those
the hips, Mr. Lewis retained cons- j "Tried in the so-called shipping bill,
ciousness. He spoke quietly to his ; w,li h is t0 be defrayed by the issu
rescuers, aiding them by his fortitude. ,sncf" of Panama bonds will exceed the
Superintendent William B. C.ohring appropriations for the fiscal year
was i.'otified immediately and arrived I 1)1fi ' about $469,000,000," said the
on tllp , gcPne wllile the suri;Poris from
the C. & A. hospital were preparing
tnP patient for transfer
Word of the accident spread
throughout the Warren District. Mr.
Lewis was affectionately known by
I the hundreds Vf men in the C. & A.,
by ofli.ials and mc:i ill olher compa-
nUSf an(I bv his llost ()f othl.r fr-wmU
jn i$jsnee, Lowell and
U'arwn n I
i;nlniI-,-
" ...
.Ji.,,nlip, Hp rpi.io.i h..n r-.r I
" ;
thP tinle folIowjng , sraU!lt,m at
.,rvari, unt the prPSPnt whpn rwogm
nition of his profess.onal ability and ,
appreciation of his genu.ne. joyous j
quaiuies as a companion lounii nun
high in the esteem of the entire com
munity.
Mr. Lewis entered the Junction
shaft shortly after 8 a. m. yesterday
accompanied by two assistants. He
preceded the latter into the face of
a drift and advanced to the t'.jp of
j the muck pile where he stopped to
write some notations and till cut a
sample card. While engaged in this,
ground loosened by the shot came
o'jn upon him. Warned by .the
sound, the assistants leaped to the
rescue, throwing aside the weight of
(Continued on Page 2)
Oregon Hear Candidate Hughes
to
"policy of vacillation" had;
the old indomitable spirit
much mistaken." he said.
are very ,
'They do
not represent the country."
In his address at Grr.nt's Pass Mr.
Hughes, defined "dominant American
ism" as follows:
"We must have a good drive afoot
and ther eis no renson why in this
country with its ability and natural
resources we should not have per
Senate Finance Committee
Recommends Such an Expe -
dient to the Whole Body.
Treasury Department Be
hind Plan.
GREAT EXPENDITURE j
NECESSITATES MONEY t
Such an Amount Will Only
Carry the Mexican Situation
up to January 1, at Rate of
Present Expense of Affair.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Aug. IT. A bond
issue of Sl.lO.ooo.onO to meet extraor
dinary government expenditures due
to the Mexican situation was unex
pectedly recommended to Congress
tonight ty majority members of the
senate finance committee with the
concurrence of the treasury depart
ment. i The bond issue is urged in the re-
port of the finance committee Denio
i erats filed in the senate today on the
$205,000,00 revenue bill. In addition
! to the proposed issue and the revenue
bill the financp committee asserts thr.t j I)rl:ls to Pmsk marshes. The Aus
furthcr appropria.it, of $sri,0P0.OC0 ' tr'an now has receded so far be
would be necessp.ry t odeffray the e.- ! fore tMt repented thrusts of th smith-
Accompanying the finance commit-
. . . " .
,Pp majority's report submitted
bv
Senator sinlmons was a SPr.era, state.
ment fronl thp treaslIrv dl,pa!tn,ent
.,,, Hih.,,, f
cr.I years 1917 at $1.120.1100.000 and re
i.1i.i.. 7. AAA nnn
report. This increase is represented
principally by $167,000,000 additional
appropriated for the navy, $166,000.
000 additional amount appropriated
for t ho army. $20.00.0no additional
pnionnt appropriated for fortifications
$11,000,000 for deficiency ant.nipria
tions about $:5.0('(1.000 of which is
due to thp Mexican situation and in-
1 f . I... np,,,, .1
, ,-.1 4-t( mi-ir-iiio ui uir (iiiii.
j nr.n
- '
" ' Z Z -n"
for ,hp PXlraori,inarv purposes
u nft bpvom, thp normaMnrrPase.
"Hut for the additional expenditures
made neressarv to defray the cost of
nrenarcdness. the increaseed revenue
to be raised by this bill would not
be necessary and the estimated re
ceipts under the present law would
be considerably in excess of the esti
mated disbursements for the fiscal
year 1917. In this connection atten
tionis called to the fact that $21,000.
000 of the normal increase for the
present fiscal year represents the
amount appropriated for rural credits
and good roads."
(Continued on Tage Two.)
manent prosperity. To do that we
must look after our own. That is what
I mean by dominant .Americanism
able to take care of American inter-;
ests. j
"In addition to that we want also
and you cannot have much of a na- J will give us peace with honor. That j Mr. Hughes was accompanied on i officers reported that no state s except
tion without it an ilese regard for is what America wants." the trip from Portland hy Chester H. , th'se near New York had imposed
our ational honor and a disposition! In tils address at Rosehurg Mr. .Howell, former Progressive national j embargo on travelers from the
to maintain It. I am solcitous to pre-' Hughes said: committeeman from California and at epidemic are-as and expressed belief
serve peace and good will. We want "You must have olya'ly to the flag present a member of the Republican 1 'hat suc h drastic quarantine regula
the friends-hip of all the nations of and Ilnsw,.rvinK loyaltv to the prln- national c ampaign committee. ti,ms are unnecessary. Several dei-
the world. Thev are friendly disposed! . , , ..... ' .... ' cgates said few eases in their states
to us. Hut if wP are to keep out of
trouble we must recpect ourselves and
others muat respect us. There is no
G0I1II RUS5 AN SUCCESSES
II SOUTH PRESAGE RETIREMENT
OF TEUTOMS FROn CENTER PITS
1
General Brussiloff's Armies,
1 Which Are Gradually En
veloping Kovel and Lem
berg, Expected to Turn the
Trick. I
TEUTONIC CENTER IS AT ;
PRESENT STATIONARY;
Slavonic Troops Anxiou3 to
i Drive Germans and Aus-i
trians from the Positions'
They Won Last Fall j
(8 Review Leased Wire.)
WITH THE RCSSI N ARMIES ON
Tuesday. aub .' 15. via , 7vtrorad" to" Iromises Are Secured from I Regulation of Interstate Traf
London, Aug. 1 7 The continued sue- j Enough of the Majority in j f ic With Regard to Epi-
cesses oi oenerai tirussiiort s two ar-
niies which gradually are enveloping
Kovel and Lemberg, have be-
gun to have a marked effect on
the situation in the central portion
of the front, which except for some
small Russian gains in the lake region
south of T-vinhk, has remained virtu
ally unaltered since the Russians fell
back last autumn to t hi- line from
1 ,tll!isian officers say there are many
:
indications that the Germans are pre
pared to abandon their present line
on this part of the front at any mo
ment. The correspondent of the Associat
ed Press i:iade a week's tour nhiug the
front commanded by General Alex
Cvert, from Lake Narocz to thv region
of Baranovichi, and found the Rus
sian soldiers most anxious for an op
portunity to advance p.s soon as the
command is given. The armies com
manded by Genera! Evert which ere
the same when crippled by a shortage
of an. munitions and supplies.- trere
forced to surrender a large part of
Poland a yesr ago. Commanders who
brought back only broken remnants
of their divisions to the present posi
tions, now are in charge of splendidly
equipped units. The men share with
their officers the determination to cap
ture the Germans in Poland and Ga
licia. The soldiers seem to be plentifully
supplied with wholesome food and are
living under the best sanitary condi
tions. They are surrounded by com
forts and conveniences comparable
with those at home in peace times.
German Attacks Repulsed.
For the first time in weeks no
change of importance was reported in
any thentre of the war Thursday.
The most violent fighting look place
on the western end of the Pritish sa
lient on the Somnie. Six times the
Germans advanced in force in a des
perate effort to bend back tlie Pritish
lines northwest of Pozieres. London
reports that all of these assaults
were repulsed with heavy losses and
tnat the Itritish in turn captured about
(Continued on Page '.)
Preach the Republican Gospel
safe guarantee of peace when others
begin to see how muc h they can tritlei
with you and decide you won't stand
stand It. They have got to know
you mean what you say, and In tlie
things which vitally concern you it
have a keen appreciation oi wnai
' American opportunity means anu
AGREE TO
senate to Appease Minority i
anJ A Adjournment. '
! ' i
SENATOR OWEN IS !
THEREFORE BLOCKED'
Immigration Bill Again Sticks
Its Nose Above the Surface
and Invites Possible Trouble
for Both Sides.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 17. Admin
; istration snute hndTS, confronted by
the determination of Senator Owen to
j press his corrupt practices bi'l at
' this session of congress, n aiie an
agreement with the Republicans today
which tliey believe will clear a wav
for passage of the shipping and ree
; t-, . .. . .
nue bills, now temporarily clocked
It was agreed that Senator Owen
might move t otake up his till at any
time and that enough '. emocrats
wouid vote with the Republicans
against the motion to defeat it.
For hours today w hile t'u shipping
till was being discussed in mono
logues to empty seals. Democrats and
Republican leaders referred over the
legislative deadlock. It was said to
night that enough Democratic prom
ises to oppose Senator Owen'c motion
had been secured to assure what the
Republicans earnestly desire, a post
ponement of action on the Owen bill
until the next session. A vote on the
shipping lill probably will be per
mitted by Tie Republicans tomorrow
or Sat .inlay under this agreement.
The day's developments h-"d served
to renew hope for an early adjourn
ment of congress when advocates of
the immigration tilt injected a new
disturbing feature. Senator Ilorah. in
the course of a speech on the shipping
till referre-d to the need for in. migra
tion legislation and the resulting dis
russion revealed evidences of anottuT
Pemocratie revolt.
Senator Harwick announced that
it was the ii tent ion of Chairman
Smith of the immigration committee
to call up the measure before adjourn
ment and Senator Ashurst. another
Democrat, said he hoped such a mo
tion wem'd be made soon and that he
would not he bound by the Democratic
caucus which voted to delay the meas
ure until IVcember.
"We should pass this bill even if
the President does intend to veto it
again." said Senator Galling-r. the
Republican leader.
what you must do to p.eserve It.
ou must preserve it ly encouraging
every American achievement. You
must be suee we do not leave unused
the national powers which w ill give
us national prospe-rity."
,
resuug. ue sum .ie ie-u nuiiv ami
that his voice was improving.
NATION WIDE
OUTBREAK IS
FEARED BY
DOCTORS
! Physicians and Surgeons, in
Conference in Capital, Ac
knowledge their Limitations
in Dealing With Disease.
CARRIERS OF MALADY
NOT BEEN DETERMINED
demic Is Sought. Confer
ences Continue Today.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Aug. 17 Plans for
a more vigorous campaign to prevent
spread of infantile paralysis wer
nia,le here t,,da-v Bt a conference or
"?.ih 1?" ' J.t ',
iiui. a ,ii, ai9 ui ii.r inu i.l
pub!i- health service. Resolutions
w.ll be adopted to.Minow by the con-
. ference in which eniminent plague ex
perts, scientists and bacteriulogistd
are participating, outlining deSnite
proposals for heeling the disease.
While few of those present today
expressed alarm that the epidemic
might assume country wide propor
tions, they uniformly declare meas
ures were necessary to guard against
. a wide spread outbreak.
Admission was freely made by
nuny e.perts tlu't the cause of the
plague, and the means of transmission
an1 i.'jt conclusively determined.
Physicians who iide been pghtir.' i:
in New York. Pennsylvania. New
Jer.-, y an.l Conn-cticut, gave the lat
est scientific observations ot these
aspects.
Attention was centered chiefly on
prevention of spread of the epidemic
thi'jugh interstate travel, rnifern.ity
of rcgulatiiyis for travel on railroad
trains, steamships anu other carriers,
was urged oy Secretary Mc.Wkj. of
the treasury department, in opening
the ronterence. and while the 'opinion,
v. as advanced by several speakers
that general qiurauth.e uai:.st pass
engers from the eastern iiiltcted areas
vas unnecessary the conference proD
ably will recomme nd a svstem ot uni
form inspection, issuance of health
'certificates and cooperat.'jn between
lederal and state health and ra;lri aj
authorities toward safeguarding travel,
j Medical tepresentatives ot a dozen
' large trunk lines urged the conference
to assist in securing uniform tra.Tic
rules.
I A special committee Cj propose
nu thods fc: control of the epidemic
including transportation regulations.
: was appointed to report tomorrow. It
; members are lr. John S Fulton, of
; Maryland, chairman: Pr. T. I). Tuttle.
of Washington state; Ir. E. G. Wtll
! iams. of Virginia: Pr. 11 S. Bracken.
! of Minnesota, and Surgeon Charles E
Punks, head 'of the public- service
! corps watching the plague at New
! York.
Another committee, appointed to
recommend a uniform method of col
lecting and transmission statistics and
I information regarding the disease's
; progress and control, is Composed of
Surgeon C. II. Iivindcr of the public
h service; Ir. W. C. Woodward
the Pistrict of Columbia: lr. St.
air I'rake. of l!Iliris. IT. A. U.
Young, of Maine, and Surgeon J. W.
Trask. of the Public Health Service.
A national survey presented by the
state delegates showed 11.717 cases in
"ti states reported, including case
since January 1 The state health
; were iracean io tne eastern epielenuc
, others reported the plague more
(Continued on Tage O
r
