1 5L!!r $y Oft ohm imhm : 4"l I
J lead, S6.556.75; spelter, S9.50 V , Cooler Tonight With Probably Frost
9.75; copper, S26.2527.00. J J ln Hi9h Places; Warmer In North-
1 J FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT; PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. est Portl0"8 Sunday-
1 Porty-sfxth Year-No. 198. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 18, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postoff Ice, Ogden, Utah
Railroad Presidents Turn Down Wilson Plan I
" ,
Teutonic Armies Fail to Throw
' Back the Advancing Muscovites
GENERAL BRUSSILOFF'S FORCES
IAIN ADVANCING IN GALICIA
! Great Losses Inflicted on Austro-Germans in Their Attempts
to Hurl Back Russian Armies French Resume the Of
fensive in Verdun Region Germans Make Strong
Counter Move in Maurepas Sector But
Fail Under French Fire.
ONE OF GREATEST BATTLES ON AT FLEURY
I Berlin, Aug. 1 8, via London, 5 p. m. The Teutonic
I f allies have taken the offensive on the Balkan front and cap-
tured the Greek town of Fiorina from Serbian troops, the war
office anounced today.
; Berlin, Aug. 18, via London, 5 p. m. The official an
nouncement that Turkish troops are fighting with the Germans
; and Austrians in Galicia was made today by the war office.
The Russians, temporarily held up
In their Galician drive by heavy
i" counter attacks, have again begun to
; move forward. Petrograd today an-
nounces that the Teutonic armies
i have failed to throw back General
BrussIIoft's armies anM that the Rus
. dans are again advancing..
' The French laBt night resumed
; their offensive In the Verdun region
and, according to Paris, succeeded in
driving the. Germans from a part of
the village of Fleury.
The Germans have made their ex
j pected counter move in the Maure
f pas sector on the Somme front, but
that all failed under the French fire,
hccording to the Paris bulletin.
: The Russians are pushing their cam
paign in the Carpathians and at one
point have driven across the Galician
border lino into Hungary. Petrograd
today announces the approach of Rus
sian troops to the summit of the
range near Korosmezo, which is about
three miles ' inside Hungarian terri
tory. Berlin reports intense activity along
the Somme, admitting a British gain
of ground on a narrow front near
Martinpulch. r
Austro-Germans Fall.
Tetrograd, Aug. IS, via London,
2:4S p. m. The Austro-German effort
' to throw back the Russians in Gali
cia has resulted in great losses and
met with no success, the war office
announced today. The Russians have
pressed forward in several sectors.
The announcement says:
"On the front from the Zlopa Lipa
west to Podhaytse the enemy resum
ed the offensive with considerable
forces without success. The enemy
sustained great losses.
"On the river Bistritza-Bolotvlna
I we occupied L,yslets (seven miles
nnnthwest of Stanislaus on the west
ern bank of the river. In the direc-
tion of Ardzeluz our troops occupied
la series of heights.
I "In the region of Korosmezo (Car
fi Ipathians) our troops continuing their
advance approached the summits of
the mountain in the vicinity of Ko-
rosmezo.
I ' "On the Caucasian front, the Turk
ish offensive in the region west of
''- (Lake Van was repulsed easily by our
: troops. In Persia, in the region of
- Kala Pasova, encounters took place
with considerable TurkiBh forces."
j Heavy Fighting at Verdun.
Paris, Aug. 18. 12 noon. Heavy
' i attacks were made by the French
last night on the Verdun front. After
violent lighting at Fleury, east of the
i Meuse, they expelled the Germans
I from part of the town which, has been
'r captured, says the official statement
,of today.
i Several German counter attacks on
1 the Somme front southeast of Maure-
Ipas were repulsed.
' ' The statement says:
"North of the Somme sevoral at
tempted counter-attacks by the enemy
against our new positions southeast
i of Maurepas failed under our fire.
We took some prisoners.
"South of the Somme we recovered
i .Tour machlno guns ln trenches taken
1 'bv us south of Belloy.
1 "On the right bank of the Meuse
f an attack by our troops enabled us,
I after a violent combat, to drive out
J tho Germans from a portion of the
village of Fleury, which they were
occupying.
i "The French also made considerable
progress ln the region of Thlaumont,
in tne Verdun sector. Fifty Germans
were captured there."
"Some enemy troops aro still main
taining themselves in a Bmall clump
of ruins on tho eastern edge of the
village of Fleury. Between Thlaumont
and Fleury our troops also made an
appreciable advance. Fifty prisoners
I including an officer remained in our
:' hands. We also captured a machine
4 uun.
ft
t Germans Active on Somme Front.
! London, Aug. 10, 3:19 p. m. Ger-
I man artillery became more active last
'i inlght along the Somme front. A small
jBritiBh, gain Is reported in the official
If
announcement of today, which fol
lows: "Last night tho enemy's artillery
generally showed increased activity.
Northwest of Bazantln-le-Petlt by a
small local enterprise we further ex
tended our gains in the enemy's lines.
German trenches in this area were
found to be greatly damaged and full
of the enemy dead.
"A further hostile attack from ,
Martinpulch last night was repulsed
as completely as were his former at
tempts yesterday."
oo
AUSTRIANS CHECK SLAVS
IN TWELVE HOURS
Vienna, via London, Aug. 17, 9:55
p. m. Massed Russian attacks
against the lines of General von
Boehm-Ermolli, between Peraslinskc
and Piniski, were repulsed by the
Austrians, according to an official
statement issued by the war office
today. For twelve hours the Russians
endeavored to penetrate lhe Austrian
entaglements, but In vain. - - -
Near Manajoa, the Russians pene
trated the Austrian trenches, but were
driven out by reserves, the statement
says. The successful defense Is attrib
uted to the excellence of tho German
and Austrian batteries.
oo
Submarine Deutschland
Arrives at Bremen
From United States.
Geneva, Aug. 18, via Paris, 5:04 p.
m. A private telegram received to
day from Berlin by the Neue Zuricher
Zeitung says that the German sub
marine Deutschland arrived safely
yesterday at Bremen from tho United
States.
The Deutschland, laden with valu
able cargo, arrived at Baltimore from
Germany July 9 and the successful
completion of the first tranH-Atlantic
submarine ln service as a merchant
man, attracted world-wide attention.
She sailed from Baltimore on her re
turn journey August 1 with a cargo
principally nickel and rubber and
passed out to sea on tho following
day, dropping out of sight of allied
warships waiting outside the three
mile limit
Captain Sights Boat.
Newport News, Va., Aug. 18, Tho
captain of a Norwegian steamer which
arrived In Hampton Roads for bunker
coal stated today he passed the
Deutschland August 10, then eight
days out of the Virginia capqs. The
Deutschland was under full sail. The
captain said ho took her for a sailing
ship in distress. Ho received a re
ply which said it was tho Deutsch
land. The Deutschland had collapsi
ble masts fore and aft when she lay
at her wharf in Baltimore.
oo
District Forester L. F. Kneipp left
last evening for Vernal to spend a
week or ten days.
AFFLICTED CI IS
DENIED LICENSE
T01W
A couple came into the office of
tho county clerk yesterday afternoon
and applied for a marriage license.
For obvious reasons the deputy who
had received the request, informed
County Clerk Harry Hales. Mr. Hales
told the couple that under no condi
tions could they get a license to
marry. The girl was about IS years
old and pitifully deformed.. Her feet
were like a baby's, being too small
to walk on. Her intended husband
was compelled almost to carry her
and he left the clerk's, office with the
remark that he would go to Brlgham
and get a license if he could not get
it here.
Mr. Hales sent word to the sheriff's
office before the couple had left the
building. Deputy Sheriff Allison met
them as they emerged from the court
house. The girl's head was lying on
her escort's shoulder, as if she had
fainted. When the two got into the
sheriff's office, the young lady
lapsed into an epileptic fit. When she
recovered, tho deputy cautioned them
about attempting to secure a license
to marry, informing the man, who
was normal and intelligent from all
appearances, that It would be a seri
ous offense for any clerk In the state
to Issue him a license to marry a girl
in her condition.
When asked his reason for seeking
to contract a marriage with a person
so abnormal, the young man replied in
all earnestness, "because I love her.
I have always loved her."
The unfortunate girl was complete
ly destitute of reason. Her head
wabbled, when the two men were dis
cussing her, as if she had no idea of
what was said, and no power to form
one.
I uu I
mm m is
BEEN AFFLICTED IY
ALTITUDE
The police took from a Union J?aci
fic train this morning, a Portuguese
woman, who had launched Into a flood
of intricate conversation several hours
before the train arrived into. Ogden
and perpetuated the flow until her ar
rival here.
The woman was transferred to the
sheriff's office and locked up. Pas
sengers stated that she began to act
strangely as the train was crossing
the summit. It is thought that her
derangement was caused by the high
altitude, This Is the fourth person
this summer to be affected by the
altitude. She had a ticket from Ne
braska to San Francisco.
oo L
SAFETY FIRST IAIN
PARKED ON TRACK
NO. R AT DEPOT
The United States government
"Safety First" special train arrived
in Ogden shortly before 9 a. m. to
day and was opened to the public for
inspection at 1 p. m. It will bo kept
open until 9 o'clock this evening and
the public Is welcome to -view the ex
hibits until that hour.
The train, which Is composed of
fourteen steel cars furnished by the
Baltimore & Ohio railroad, was op
erated from Omaha to Ogden over
the Union Pacific railroad freo of ex
pense, being conducted over tho Wyo
ming division by Superintendent S. R.
Toucey and Trainmaster W. A. Mc
Duffle, the latter directing its opera
tion from Greenrlver to Ogden.
Following its arrival In the city
this morning, tho train was set on
track No. 9 ln the local terminal pas
senger yards and the party of twenty
six government officials and attaches
who havo made tho trip from Wash
ington, D. C, in chargo of the ex
hibits, were taken for an automobile
ride through Ogden canyon to the
city wells at the west end of Hunts
vllle. This treat was furnished by
the Ogden publicity bureau. Tho
trip was mado in leisurely fashion so
that tho visitors could absorb the
deep charm of tho canyon and upon
their leturn to Ogden, they were
unanimous ln the opinion that tho
rido was the prettiest and most en
joyable side trip they had taken since
Reaving Washington, .
Two Places Given to
Utah Progressives
By the Democrats
The Democratic party in Utah is
united for Woodrow Wilson and will
select the next United States senator,
a Democratic governor as well as
other Democratic state officers. Tills
is in accord with the statement of
S. R. Thurman, the state chairman,
in a brief address delivered jafter
tho convention had been called to
order at 11:27 a. m. It was also the
declaration of A. J. Weber, who was
chosen chairman of the convention,
in his keynote speech. Before intro
ducing Mr. "Weber as Andrew Jackson
Weber, which sent a ripple of laughter
over the convention, and caused many
to fix on the cause of Mr. Weber's
Democracy, Mr. Thurman placed the
convention on record as being In favor
of a bi-partisan candidate for state
superintendent of public instruction.
He said that in getting behind E. G
Gowans, the present incumbent, the
enterprising Republicans in that party
not only had followed the lead of the
Democrats, hut had stolen "our plun
der." "They also stole our candi
date," he said.
In declaration for prohibition, Mr.
Thurman said also that the Republi
can party in Utah in this campaign
was following the lead of the Demo
cratic party. Mr. Weber, in his key
note speech, added to this statement:
"The Democratic party in Utah not
only declares for state-wide prohibi
tion. It declares for nation-wide pro
hibition as well."
The mention of Woodrow Wilson's
name by both Mr. Thurman and Mr.
Weber proved the occasion for a
demonstration, which has viewed as
being evidence that there is a pro
found sentiment for the present ad
ministration and Its foreign policies.
Chairman Weber dwelt at length upon
the humanitarlanism of President Wil
son and pointed to the fact that he
had kept the United States out of the
world war. He said also that the
president's refusal to recognize Huer
ta and to declare war against any of
the other de facto Mexican govern
ment's was evidence that he proposed
to perpetuate peace in this land of
freedom and personal liberty. These
he said are Democratic principles and
in preserving them the president Is
showing his loyalty to the party and
to tho nation;
The chairman also asserted that
Nephi L. Morris, the Republican nom
inee for governor, was not a Republi
can in 1912, and quoted declarations
of Mr. Morris at that time in sup
port of his statement He said tho
fact there exists a doubt as to Mr.
Morris' Republicanism is indicative of
all the more credit for him.
Temporary Officers.
When the address was concluded
appointment of other convention offi
cers was announced as follows:
Secretary Henry Hays.
Assistant Secretary Julius Ander
son, Provo.
Sergeant-at-Arms Nicholas Crooks
ton, Logan.
Assistant Sergeant-at-Arms Henry
East, Provo.
Assistant Sergeant-at-Arms A .G.
Harris, Ogden.
Chaplain Rev. G. F. Rassweiler.
Naming of Committees.
After prayer Dy the chaplain the
official call for the convention was
read and tho convention proceeded to
select committees on permanent or
ganization and order of business, plat
form and resolutions and credentials.
The comr"Hfop "re as follows:
Committees Named.
The commltees were appointed as
follows, each county being repre
sented: Credentials Aubrey Tolken, A. B.
Taylor, Joseph E, Cordon, Samuel
Taylor, John L. Hackaw, Joseph Tim
othy, O. W. Seggles, William Alvey,
John A. Sprock, E. II. McFarland, V.
E. Ecklund, R. W. King, R. R- FiT.
Reed Shelby, Arthur McFarland, M.
J. Chrlstensen, Ed Johnston, E. F.
Peterson, A. C. Hortln, R. J. Hunting
ton, Thomas H. Murray, 'Alma Green
wood, Moroni Olsen, William O. Bent
ley, Jr., V. S. Sebastian, Willard
Ellis.
Organization and Permanent Order
of Business O. A. Murdock, O. C.
Dalby, Sam Alden, W. F. Olsen, L. A.
Hollenbeck, L. O. Kenny, Lewis Kim
ball, F. B. Hammond, W. Warren
Mitchell, E. M. Whltmoro, H. E. Max
field, Cyrus Jensen, Leroy Jensen, O.
H. Carlqulst, Al. Young, John S.
Blake, J. A. Smith, J. L. Boyden, O.
H. Harris, E. D. Neboker, J. Will
Knight, Job. R. Murdock, D. H. Mor
ris, N. C. Peterson, T. Samuel Brown
ing. Platform and Resolutions- A. M.
Durkman, Milton H. Welling, J. W.
(Funk, L. O. Hoffman, Henry H. Blood,
C C. Coop, Ira Browning, W.
Alvoy, Charles Adams, T. A. Robert
son, -Joshua Greenwood, Alonzo Brad
sen, Leroy Cook, L. R. Martin, Jr.,
J. R. Letcher, Orlando Bradley, E.
Hoffman, J. T. Flannigan, John A.
Bevan, Ashley Bartlett, Abel John
Evans, Geo. A. Fisher, Ed. H. Shaw,
W. J. Snow, C. C. Richards.
Favor Progressives.
Theso committees met in the dis
trict court rooms in tho county build
ing during tho noon recess. At tho
samo time the atato committee cau
cused on the stage of tho Alhambra,
In this caucus tho committee decided
for fusion with the Progressives on
the state auditorshlp and the state
treasurerBhip, the nominees to be Pro
gressives. . Tho .Weber county delegation,- also.
caucused during the noon recess. No
action was taken. Later the Weber
county Democratic centraLcommittee,
meeting at the same place, decided
to hold the county and legislative
convention on Saturday, September 2,
Tho convention will start at 11 a. m.
of that date. The place for holding
it was not decided upon.
In a different part of the theater
delegates from Carbon, Emery, San
Juan, San Pete and Grand counties
these counties comprising the sev
enth judicial district held their ju
dicial convention. George Chrlsten
sen, of Mount Pleasant, was made the
nominee for district judge, and Pet
terson, of Moab, was named for dis
trict attorney. The nominations were
by acclamation.
i Continued on Page 7.)
nn
THE kWMi
Measure Exempted From Dis
cipline Retired Army Offi
cers Big Cut Made.
JOKERS IN THE BILL
President's Act Result of
Years of Dissension Between
Chairman Hay and Army.
Washington, Aug. 18. President
Wilson today vetoed the army appro
priation bill because of exemptions
from discipline for retired officers
forced into it by the house conference
committee led by Representative Hay
over the opposition of the war depart
ment. A new bill will be necessary
and may delay adjournment of con
gress. Mr. Hay followed his announcement
by re-introducing the bill minus, not
only the section to which the presi
dent objected, but with the whole re
vision of the articles of war elimin
ated. This threatened to complicate
the situation.
Reason for Escaping Discipline.
There have been broad intimations
that the revision which proposed to re
move retired officers from the juris
diction of courts martial was in the
interest of a certain retired officer
who was waiting for a time .when he
would be immune from disci
pline to make a public at
tack of the army. The officer,
whose name was mentioned in connec
tion with the report, was, while In
tho service, very active in legislative
affairs, was very close to congress
men framing army bills and until his
retirement was reckoned with as a
power in legislation affecting the
army.
The president's veto of the bill is
one of the developments of years of
contest between the army and Chair
man Hay. The downfall of the con
tinental army scheme and substantia
tion of the national guard re-organization
against tho recommendation of
the army officers, is attributable to
him. Ouly the force of President Wil
son's interference made the regular
army Increase ln the new re-organization
bill go through the house in the
face of Hay's opposition. Recently
T. Ttr:i I 1 .1 TT... 1
judgeship on the court of claims and
he now is serving his last term in
congress.
The war department contends that
many features of the army bill were
written Into It In the conference and
never were debated ln house or senate.
President Wilson's Message.
President Wilson's veto message
follows:
"To the house of representatives:
"I have carefully considered tho bill
entitled 'An Act Making Appropria
tions for the Support of the Army
for tho Fiscal Year Ending June 30,
1917 and now take tho liberty of re
turning it with my objections to its
approval.
"Tho bill constitutes an essential
part of the legislation providing for
tho military establishment of tho
country, and wisely and generously
provides for the re-organization of the
agencies of our national defense, and
It Is with genuine reluctance that I de
lay its becoming law by suggesting
.the elimination of ono of tho provi
sions which haB been embodied in
the very necessary and Important re
vision of the articles of war which
has been r.dded to it
Articles of War Archaic.
"Thu existing Articles of War are
undoubtedly archaic. They have not
undergone comprehensive revision for
more than 100 years. They do not al
ways furnish the means of meeting
promptly and directly the needs of
discipline under modern conditions,
and many contingencies now fre
quently arise in the government of
the military forces which were not
contemplated when tho present code
was formulated. The relations of the
government of the United States have
greatly broadened with the hundred
,yeara, w flow have insular posses-
PRESIDENT WILSON REFUSES 10 I
TAKE "NO" FOR AN ANSWER I
Railroad Officials Stand by Managers' Decision That Eight
Hour Day Is Impracticable Executive Asks for Another
Conference Will Not Give Up Effort to Settle Dis
pute Brotherhood Chiefs Deliver Vote of
Colleagues to the President.
Washington, Aug. 18. Thirty-one railroad presidents
told President Wilson today they stood by the decision of their
managers' committee that an eight-hour day was impracticable.
President Wilson refused to take "no" for an answer to
his proposal that tney accept the eight-hour day and asked jH
them to return to the White House tomorrow with their mana
gers for another conference.
Washington, Aug 18. President Wilson, it was said
authoritatively late today, would bring the boards of directors
of the leading railroads to Washington, if necessary, to prevent
a nation-wide railroad strike. He will endeavor, it was said,
to secure an agreement by negotiating with representatives
of employes, the railroad managers and presidents, but if the
deadlock continues, the boards will be summoned.
Brotherhood Vote Delivered.
The vote of the employes on Presi
dent Wilson's plan was delivered to
him personally by the chiefs' of the
four brotherhoods. A. B. Garretson,
their spokesman, who said it would
be given out by the president and
added that although the employes
had received no Invitation to return
to the White House they would
"tarry here" to await a possible sum
mons. The four brotherhood leadei's were
in conference with the president
to them as a result of President Wil
son's conference with tho railroad
presidents.
Railroad Officials to Return.
The railroad presidents agreed to
return to tho White House tomorrow
to further discuss tho situation. It
was made clear to President Wilson
that the railroad presidents were not
disposed to yield the eight-hour day
and that they insisted on arbitration.
The altitude of the railroad presi
dents seemed to indicate little chance
of the plan proposed by the president
'being accepted. Several declared the
principle of arbitration in industrial
disputes was at stake and must be
maintained even at the cost of a
strike. President Wilson pointed out
the disaster which would attend the
sions and national interests far away
from our continental shores. Both
the practice of arms and the theory
of discipline havo undergone many
modern changes and a manifest need
for such a revision of theso articles
as is here presented has long existed.
I, therefore, ihe more keenly regret
to find In the proposed revision of the
Articles of War a provision to which
I cannot give my approval.
"The oviglnal act establishing the
retired list of the army referred to
the personnel therein included as
only partially retired, and provided
that a retired officer should be en
titled to wear the uniform of his
grade, should be borne on the army
register, and should be subject to the
ii-ules and articles of war, and to
trial by general court martial Cor
any breach of these articles. By the
act of July 24, 1876, officers of the
army on the retired list were speci
fically declared to constitute a part
of the regular army, a provision
which is found repeated in subse
quent acts affecting the organization
of tho army and other statues en
acted during tills period made re
tired officers of the army available
for certain classes of active duty, in
time of puce with their consent, and
in time of war without their consent
By the recently enacted National De
fense act, the authority of the presi
dent over retired officers has been.
further extended so as to make them
subject to Ins call in time of war for
any kind of duty withont any restric
tion whatever. Courts and attorneys
general havo in a long line of deci
sions held that officers of the array
on tho retired list hold public of
fice. Sharp Distinction Drawn.
"It thus apnears that both the legis
lative and judicial branches have
drawn a sharp distinction in status j
between ictired officers, who are re
garded and governed rt all times as
an effective reserve against killed
and wounded officers and a potential
source of military strength and not
mere pensioners, from whom no fur
ther military Bervlce is expected. Of
ficers on the retired list of the army
are officers of the army, members of
the military establishment distin
guished by their long service and as
such examples of discipline to the of
ficers and men in the active army.
Moreover, they wear the uniform of
tho array, their education and serv
ice hold them out as persons espe
cially equallfled in military matters
to represent the spirit of the military
establishment and they are subject
to active duty in time of national
emergency by tho mere order of the
commander-in-chief.
Exemplars of Discipline.
"Members of the reserve army of
ficers are exemplars of discipline and
havo in their keeping the good namo
and tho good spirit of the entire mili
tary spirit of the entire world. Oc
cupying such a relation their subjec
tion to the rules and articles of war
and to trial by genral courts martial
hOfYO always been yefiarded as nocos-
nation-wide strike, but the officials
only answered they were ready to ar
bitrate the questions at Issue. Dur
Ing the discussion with the president
details were not taken up.
Holden of the Burlington, as spokes
man, pointed out that only the com
mittee of managers was authorized to
reach a definite decision as it rep re
sented all the railroads.
The presidents were with the 'pres
ident less than an hour. As they left
the White House Mr. Holden said he
would have no statement to make for
the present
President Will Insist
Whether President Wilson will jH
continue to insist on his plan or sug
gest another to both eides "was not
made clear. Administration officials
insist he will continue negotiations
until some settlement is1 reached.
Men closely affiliated with the rail
road officials, said that the managers
were willing to accept any kind of
arbitration, but there was no chance IH
of an eight-hour day without investl
gation. The railroad executives told the
president that since before increasing jH
freight rates, they were forced to sub
mlt to an inquiry, before granting jH
an increase in pay they have a simi- jH
lar inquiry.
sary ln order that the retired might
not become a source of tendencies
which would weaken the discipline
of the active land forces and impair
that control over those forces which
the constitution vests in the presl
dent. Uniformity of Application.'
."The purpose of the articles of war
in times of peace is to bring about a JM
uniformity in the application of mill
tary discipline which will make the
-entire organization coherent and ef
fecHlve, and to engender a spirit of
co-operation and proper subordination
to authority which will in the time
of war instantly make the entire
army a unite in Its purpose of self
sacrifice and devotion to duty in the
national defense. These purposes can
not be accepted if the retired officers,
still a part of the military establish
ment, still relied upon to perform
duties are excluded upon retirement IH
from the wholesale and unifying ef
feet of this subjection to a common tM
discipline. I am persuaded that of- tM
fleers upon the retired list would
themselves regard it as an invidious jH
and unpalatable discrimination, which
in effect they have excluded them
from full membership In the profes
slon to which they have devoted their
lives, and of which, hy the laws of
their country, they are still members. IH
So long as congress sees fit to make
the retired personnel a part of the
army of the United States, the con- JM
stitutlonality of the proposed exemp
tion of such personnel from all Ha
blllty under the Articles of War is
a matter of serious doubt, leaving
the president, as it does, without
any means sanctioned by statute of
exercising over the personnel thus
exempted the power of command jH
vested in him hy the constitution. jH
"Conceding that I am positive of
the unwisdom of this provision and
its baneful effect upon the dlsclplln
ary effect upon the army; doubting
as I do the purpose of congress wholly
to exempt retired officers from the
control of the president, while de- IH
claring them to be a part of the regu- VM
lar army of the United States, I am IH
constrained to return this bill without
my approval."
CHIN OP I
GOAL OPERMIS I
D. H. Pape, general manager of the j
Lion and Wyoming Coal companies, JM
returned today from Cheyenne, Wyo
mlng, where he has been in attendance
at tho Sduthern Wyoming Coal Opor
ators and Miners convention. Mr.
Pape is a member of tho scale com- jH
mittee. While away Mr. Pape also
attended the Federal Trade Commls
sion meeting held at Donvor, July
28th.
