'
ADVERTISING IN
WEST VIRGINIAN
Northern West Virginia's Greatest Newspaper*
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 18, 1916.
'ABLISHED 1868.
ASSOCIATED
TODAY'S NEWS TODAY
PRICE TWO CENTS
RAINMEN VOTE
DOMINANT AMERICANISM DEFINED Army Appropriation Vetoed;
BY HUGHES FOR WESTERN A UDIENCE Wilson Found Hay Snake in It
epublican Candidate Has |
Reached San Francisco
on His Tour.
WILL im LEADERS
de Many Rear Platform
Speeches on His Trip
South.
b (By Associated Pre?s.)
SAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 18?Charles
__i Hughes entered California from the
UKrth today with a program of Epeech
Pmaking, entertainment and conferences
: that promised one of the moat strenu
h oiis periods of his western trip.
SffiA reception committee of 30 waited
near the Oregon line to welcome him
nd escort him to San Francisco where
e will remain two days.
The program today included an aft
inoon reception at the Union League
club, a talk to San Francisro women
at his hotel, an address at the Civic
^auditorium tonight and later a recep
tion at the Newspaper men's club.
*?0n his trip south through Oregon
yesterday Mr. riughes talk of the tariff
and the national honor to crowds
which assembled at stations along the
" way. From the rear platform of his
car the nominee made four addresses
at Riddle, Rosebur*. Grants Pass and
here. In each he also summarized his
stand on preparedness, protection of
' American rights and industrial co-oper
tailon.
At Riddle Mr. Hughes declared that
^^"depreciation in American repute."
' due to "a policy of vacillation," had
brought the country nearer to war than
Itlwould have been had a lfirm and con
sistent policy been maintained.
"Those who think we are decadent
and weak a? ' haven't got the old in
domitable spirit are very much mis
taken," he said. "They do not repre
" it the country."
n his address at Grant's Pass Mr.
jghes ^jfined dominant Americanism
follows: "We must havo a good
iArlye ahead, and there is no reason
| why In this country, with its ability
| and natural resources, we should not
Mwc jftionanent pi osperlty^-ToTlo' that
*0 must look after our own. That Is
"it?I mean by dominant American
_ ?able to take care of American in
?grests.
?; *3n addition to that we want also?
j and you cannot have much of a Na
: mofflprithout it?an intense r< gard for
' . q8r national honor and a disposition
P to maintain it. I am solicitous m pre
serve peace and good will.
| ''We want the friendship and good
j will of all the Nations of the world.
They are very friendly disposed to us.
I sSI we are t0 keep out ?* trouble,
| we must respect ourselves and have
^others respect us. There is no safe
arantee of peace when others begin
see how much they can trifle you
__Jd you decide you won't stand it.
; jThey have got to know you mean what
say and fa tne thiugs which vital
^ concern you that you are prepared
to maintain them. That is good Amer
icanism. It will give us peace with
honor. That is what America wants."
^In his address at Roseburg Mr.
; Hughes said: "You must ^ave loyalty
ft^ttie flag and unswerving loyalty to
the principles of our institutions. You
must have a keen appreciation of what
American opportunity means and what
mu must do to preserve it. You must
preserve it by encouraging every
American achievement. You must be
Hire. we- do not leave unused the na
Jonal powers which will give us na
; tlonal prosperity."
i Mr. Hughes was accompanied on the
xip from Portland by Chester H.
Kowell, former Progressive national
^committeeman from California and at
present a member of the Republican
national campaign committee. Mr.
Bowell discussed with the nominee
the situation in California.
^Mr. Hughes will remain in the city
until Sunday night and will discuss
.campaign afTairs with Republican and
grogresBive leaders.
I Local Playgrounds
To Close August 26
I The date for the closing of the lo
cal playgrounds has been set for Au.
26, this announcement having
made at the close of a meeting
Id ty the committee in charge of
> playground work.
A. special program will be observ
J: (m the closing day consisting of
. "the usual track events, folk dances,
and basketball games. A lunch will
he served on this occasion also.
Prices will be awarded to teams
and Individuals and the playground
?Igj&r will be awarded to the teams I
?coring the most points in the events.
!-? At the meeting held last night the
following were selected for the inter
| playground volley ball team to play
at Morgan town on the athletic field
| this evening at 6:30: Clay Mills,"Fred
Jacobs. John Fleming, Seldom Doan.
and Miles Mills.
1 ? ?
8EEKING AN UMPIRE
i managers of the Monongah and
Jrant Town baseball teams are
f searching for an honest disin
?led umpire for their game to be
d 8unday at Traction park. NO
ant brave enough has yet been
TRAIN PLATFORM IS HUGHES'
"STUMP" ON LONG TOUR
Hwre W Candidate iiutthi.* In nctlo
candidate on the back platform of his t
along the route of his blp tour for vote?.
iimT
IS MORNING
Standard Garage Employe
Run Down Near Ope
kiska.
BrooVf? Holt, son of Charles E. Holt,
formerly of Fairmont, now of Iron
town, Ohio, was struck by train No.
52 on the Baltimore and Ohio railroad
at Opekiska this morning and instant
ly killed. Holt, who was an employee
of the Standard Garage and 22 years
of age. has been living with his grand
father on the East Side for the past,
year.
? He was given a short vacation a few
days ago and is said to have alighted
from oue of the Baltimore and Ohio's
trains at Opekiska to visit some dis
tant relatives who live in that sectio?.
It is the opinion of his relatives here
that he had intended to catch the
train which killed hinf and come back
to Fairmont but that he had fallen
asleep ?n the tracks. He was lying on
his face between the rails when the
engineer discovered him?too late to
avert the disaster.
Holt was a nephew of Clyde S. Holt, j
of this city, and is connected with all
the numerous Holt families In this sec
tion. He was a machinist at the Stand
ard Garage and during his stay with
that firm had made many friends by
his genial disposition and by the ex
cellent class of work he was accus
tomed to put out.
Arrangements for the funeral are la i
charge temporarily of his uncle, Clyde
S. Holt The young man's father nas
been telegraphed and should arrive
here either tonight or In the morning.
Until his arrival the body will be kept
in the Cunningham morgue where U
was taken from the train this morning.
The body was brought in on the bag
gage car of the train that killed him
and taken to the Cunningham estab
lishment. There it remained from 10
o'clock until 1:1#' this afternoon be
fore it could be identified, the body
having been so oatfly mangled. Both
legs and one arm were severed from
the body, the head was crushed in and
the entire body in such condition that
identification seemed almost impossi
ble. The identity \Cfcs made known
through Scott aiyl Hawkins by whom
the suit whicu he wore was sold. His
cap also bore the name of Scott and
Hawkins.
GRETZINGER ALLEGES FRAME UP
Julius Gretzinger, of Hutchinson,
was arrested yesterday on a charge of
bootlegging. Gretzlnger has been very
active of late in assisting the county
officers in capturing bootleggers and
was also in part responsible for the ar
rest of John Redeski. He insist* that
it is a frame up and will fight the
charge.
ii. The picture shows the llepubllcan
pcclal train, as he addressed thrones
B. and 0. Requires Health
Certificates From Child
Passengers.
(By Associated Press)
MORGANTOWN, Aug. IS?Dr. W.
C. Kelley, city health officers, last
night ordered policemen to meet all
trains and require children under the
age of 16 coming from New York) New
Jersey and Pennsylvania to show
health certificates. While no cases
of infantile paralysis are in Morgan
town at tho present time, yet the doc
tor is taking" this st6p as a precau
tionary measure. If any child arrives
from infected states without proper
certificates they wfll be isolated un
j til it is , shown free from disease.
Dr. Kelley is todav Issuing health
certificates to all children entering
Pennsylvania because eight passen
gers were turned back at Point Mar,
ion yesterday because they had no
health certificates.
The general passenger agent of the
Baltimore and Ohio ha8 ordered that
no tickets be sold to children under
16 years of age unless accompanied
by health certificates.
Fred J. Hair Dies as Result
of Injury at Brick
Plant.
I The body of Fred J. Hair, the six
I teen year old boy who died yesterday
; as the result of an accident at the plant
I of the Hammond Fire Brick company,
is to be buried in the Dunkard church
cemetery near Hammond.
The boy was the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Bert Hair, who reside near Hammond,
and tne accident in which the fatal in
jury was received occurred Tuesday
evening.
The boy. who was employed at the
brick riant, was holding a brake nan
die against a large belt when the heavy
stick caught in some manner on the
rapidly moving belt and was plunged
into the lad's abdomen. ?
Every efTort was made by th? at
tending physicians to save the lad but
he died late yesterday afternoon.
He was a grandson ot Mrs. James W.
Hair, of Fairmont, and is survived by
his parents and two sisters . The lad
was well liked by all who knew him
and had many friends in the neighbor
hood of Hammond.
(Bjl Auociated Pros.) -1
WASHINGTON, Aug. 18.?President Wilson today vetoed
the army appropriation bill because of the exemption from discipline for
retired officers forced into the bill by House conferees led by Represen
4, tative Hay over the opposition of the War department.
A new bill will be necessary and may delay the adjournment of
Congress.
Representative Hay said he would reintroduce the bill in the
House immediately with the features to which the President objected
eliminated.
Mr. Hay followed the announcement by reintroducing the bill
minus not only the section to which the President objected, but with
the whole revision of the articles of war eliminated.
This threatens to complicate the situation. There have been broad
intimations that the revision proposed to remove retired officers from
the jurisdiction from court martial was in the interest of a certain officer
who was waiting for a lime when he could be immune from discipline
to publicly attack the army. The officer whose name was mentioned
was while in the service very active in legislative affairs and very close
to the congressmen framing army bills, and until his retirement was reck
oned with as a power in legislation affecting the army.
The President's veto of the bill is a development of years of con
test between the army and Mr. Hay, the down fall of the Continental
army scheme and substitution of the national guard against the recom
mendation of army officers is attribute! to him. Only the force of
President Wilson's interference put regular army increases in the new
bill through the House in the face of Hay's opposition.
Recently President Wilson appointed Hay to a judgeship on the
court of claims and he is now serving his last term in congress.
Seeks to Get War Depart
ment to Use Influence
at Charleston.
(Special Dispatch to West Virginian.)
WASHINGTON, Aug. IS.?The de
cidedly uncertain condition in the
West Virginia national ruard Is again^
p&rtmen'C now, however, because the
War department is interested at this
time on its own account, but because
of the activities of Major M. M. Neely,
Congressman of the First West Vir
ginia district who has again been seek
ing to get the War department to "do
something" for the Tirst regiment,
some of the companies of which are lo
cated in Major Neely's district.
With regard to the report published
this morning might be substituted for
the Second regiment now in camp av
Kanawha City on account of the ina
bility of the Second regiment to get
recruited up to the required number of
men. it was stated at Congressman
Neely's office today that Major Neely
has called on tha War department or
flcials and requested that in the event
the Second regiment, within a reason
able time, fails to fully recuit, that
the War department request Governor
Hatfield to call the First regiment out,
it being represented that officers o#
that regiment are confident they can
recruit it up to the full complement of
men with'- a reasonable time.
The case rests with tfiat request by
Neely. Beyond that it is entirely in 1
the hands of Covernor Hatfield. The
War department has no jurisdiction.
Funeral Will Be Held From
Residence on Sunday
Afternoon.
Mrs. Bernice Lee Riggs, wife of Ed
Riggs, died at the family home 1108
Ninth street, Eighth ward, this morn
ing at five o'clock. Mrs. Riggs had
been in declining health for a number
of years and had been in a serious con
dition since last April.
Mrs. Riggs is survived by her hus
band, two sons, Frank W. and Clark
Riggs, both of this city, and two broth
ers, Edward Lee, of Junior, Va., and
Wayne Lee, of Seattle, Wash., and one
sister. Mrs. Florence McConkey, of
Pittsburgh. The deceased was an ex
cellent woman and was held in high
esteem by a host of friends. She was
a consistent member of the First M.
E. church.
The funeral will take place Sunday
at 1:30 o'clock from the residence.
Rev. C. E. Goodwin, pastor of the M.
E. church will conduct the services and
interment will be made in the Rex
cemetery at Wkite Rock by Undertak
er EU Musgrave and Sons.
SWISHER CHILD BURIED.
The funeral of Maggie, the eighteen
months old infant of Mr. and Mrs. J.
L. Swisher, whose death occurml on
Wednesday at her home at Millers
ville, took place yesterday afternoon
from the residence and interment was
made in Maple G/cve cemetery by Un
dertaker ?11 Musgravs aud Sons.
Deutchland
Reported Safe
on Other Side
GENEVA, Aug. IS ? A
private telegram received to i
clay from Berlin by the Neue!
Zurizher Zeitung says the
German submarine Deutsch-i
lan darrived safely yester
day at Bremen from the |
United States.
Finance Committee of Sen
ate Recommends $130,
000,000 of Them.
(By Associated Press)
WASHINGTON, Aug. IS?A recom
mendation of the majority member#
of the Senate Finance committee for
a bond issue of $130,000,000 to meet
government expenditures due to the
Mexican situation was before Congres,'
today. This amount it was said would
meet such expenditures only until the
end of the calendar year and should
border conditions continue as at pres
ent after December 31. a further ap
propriation ot $86,0004000 woud be
required.
EMPLOYEES MEETINGS
The "experience meeting" of the
Monongahela Valley Traction com
1 pany employees was held this morning
at the local offices in the Watson
! building and another is scheduled for
this evening. These meetings are
popular with the men and they freely
discuss all of the problems that they
meet in their daily work. A number
of valuable suggestions toward the
conduct of the traffic is often receiv
ed by the officials at these meetings
which are held frequently. The Fair
traffic problem was discussed at the
morning meeting.
Judgment Against
Black Fork Goal Co.
Judgment for $30,980.01 was grant
ed today by Judge Vincent against
the Back Fork Coal Co. The First
Natlona". Bank of 'airmont is the
plaintiff in this suit and John T. Mc
raw is also a d.fendant i- the action.
The decision in r-sard to the McGraw
part of the case was continued until
tomorrow rhen a demurred will be
argued and McCfaw and his attorneys
will appear in court
A divorce case in which adultery is
alleged in the bill was subr *ted by
Attorney French McCray. This is J.
Dallas Niizum vs. Daisy Xuzum and
the couple ^ere married March 31 and
partem ufter less th: .1 two weeks of
wedded life.
Fairmont Children
Put Off a Train
Mrs. Maggie Nelson and five chil
dren, of Fairmont, who were en route
to Pittsburg yesterday were ordered
off the Baltimore ant' Ohio railroad
train at PMnt Marion due to the chil
dren not having been examined by a
physician and receiving a certificate
of good health. This Is one of 1 e
met: v iw to quarantine the state
of Pennsylvania. The passengeijB were
put off, the conductors keaping their
tickets. This family was one of sev
en families' placed li like circum
stances.
ma
Presidents Are in Consultation Wi
Mr. Wilson at the White House
This Afternoon
(flji Associated Press.) h?
WASHINGTON. Aug. 18.?While ihe railroad employees'^
commillee of 640 was taking a secret ballot on President Wilsonjpi
plan to avert the threatened strike, the committee of railroad presidents
was in conference with Mr. Wilson at the White house. To the presi
dents Mr. Wilson appealed to reverse the stand of many members of the
committee and accpet the proposal to concede the eight-hour day and
have a committee appointed by congress to investigate the collateral
issues.
It was plain that the railroad presidents were prepared to refuse the
proposal or ask for time to consider it. There were some indications,
however, that Mr. Wilson might move them, and failing in that, call in
the financial powers which control the roads.
When the White house conference began the brotherhood leaden;
said the men were still balloting. It was expected they would ar1?'
the President's plan.
Hale Holden. president of the Burlington, acted as spokesman. It
was agreed in advance that the railroad officials would listen to
\\ ilson's presentation of his plan, Mr. Holden should ask questions
order to make the situation clear, and the railroad presidents should r
turn to their hotel to hold a meeting and decide upon their action.
It was tentatively agreed that when an answer was sent to President
Wilson it would be given to the public.
WASHINGTON, Aug. is.?While the
C40 representatives of the railroad em
ployes assembled in secret session to
day to vote on president Wilson's
Plan for averting a national strike,
.the^railroad presidehts aid managers
neid a final conference before going
to the White House later in day.
There were indications that the em
ployes would vote to accept President
Wilson's proposal of a basic eight
hour day and a settlement of other
issues by a special commission, but
hope for settlement was endan.
gered by evidence that the railroad
presidents, backing up the managers
committee were not inclined to grant
an eight-hour day unless it be decid
ed by arbitration, and in anv event
they might ask President Wilson for
a little time to think over his proposi.
tion.
The time for his conference with
the railroad presidents had been set
for 11:30 this morning but they found
it impossible to be prepared with a
statement at that hour and the time
was changed to two this aftomoon.
The railroad presidents want ar-:
bitration under the Newlands act with
two arbitrators for the roads and two
for the men and two for the public.
The disposition today was said to be
to insist upon action of that charac
ter and not yield to President Wilson's
plan for an eight-hour day unless it
comes from an arbitration board. Some
of the presidents are said to feel that
the public will support their offer to
arbitrate everything in dispute. Some
others, however, were of the opinion
that if President Wilson chose to ex
ercise his power and refuse to press
the men for arbitration it will be dif
ficult for the railroad executive to
contine opposition to his plan.
After the meeting of the Brother
hoods had been in session for an hour
one of the leaders came out and said
sentiment for the President proposal
was by no means unanimous but no
organized opposition to the plan had
appeared. Most of them thought the
President's proposal good in the main
but a number found objections to
some of it.
There are about 500 men in there
clarmoring for a chance to speak, said
the leader who came out, and if they
are heard as many of them doubtless
will be, there is no telling when we
will get to a vote.
The President's plan was outlined
in the following statement which was
made by Secretary Tumulty yester
day afternoon at the conclusion of the
conference with the trainmen:
"The President's suggestion asks
both sides to accept the eight-hour
day on the present bases of pay.
"It also asks that the collateral
questions shall be submitted to a com
mission to be authorized by Congress.
"Until the union leaders vote on
the suggestion and the railway execu
tives pass upon it, the White House
cannot discuss the situation."
The President did most of the talk
ing at the meeting yesterday, explain
ing his plan in detail and urging that
it be accepted for the good of the coun
try. Afterward Garretson and W. S.
Stone of the engineers spoke brief
iy.
At the conclusion of the discussion
all of the men fell in line and shook
hands with the President before leav
ing.
It was understood that under the
President's plsn the eight-hour day
would go into effect .pending the out
come of the investigation. The com
mission would be * small one, prob
1'\ '&? ;v-?
ably composed of three memb^r and
would h^ve authority- to
nesses and determine all of the facta
on the cost to the railroads of the
eight-hour day.
4^ Under the ' ? ?? iiiw
ble compensation propositions would
be eliminated.
Eight Year Old Boj
Run Down by Au|
Alton Cleveland, the eight yea
son of W. 0. Cleveland, of 108'1
street, was seriously injured to
when struck by an automobUefjS
Cleveland avenue. The child was rash- ]
ed to Cook hospital where ijt| if
found that one of his legs was DroK
and that he was severely cut about
head. It is thought that he
cover.
The accident occurred shortly a .
noon and the Cleveland boy r-3 on 1
way to Russo's store to purchase f
which he intended to sell from^'
at the -'"air next week. He J* _____
from behind an ice wagon on
land avenuq near the fruit ptor^f
as T. A. Micnael, in a large autoi
bile was passing down the street. Tfc?|
front wh-el of the *ar : truck t
child knocking him down and^i
across his leg. Michael immei
stopped his car and rushcl the boy to
the hospital. Officer Boggess
saw the accident from the back Aria* j
dowe of the City Hajl rushed to the
ail of the lad and Michael f
a forfeit for his appearance
Mayor Iiowen in the mon/ng, 1
Body of Edward Rose
Taken to Manning
The body of Edward Rose, the 20
year old youth who died yesterday la I
Fairmont Hospital No. 3 aa th6 result
of burns recoivod in a powder explo- j
sion. was taken *o the homa- of his
father, Clelland Kmin Mannington.
this morning. The body was prepared j
for burial oy I'nienaker T'.nes aid |
the funeral will likely be i*3n3*liO
home in Maaniijtoa tomorrow. - :*?
GASOLINE PRICE FAffiS!
COLUXBUS, Aug.
ard Oil company lowered the price of
gasoline in Ohio today from 23 to t2 j
cents.
*?_ iM
The Weather.
West Virginia?Partly cloudy* and !
continued warm tonight and f '
day.
LOCAL WEATHER READING
F. P. Hall, Observer
Temperature at 8 a. m. I _______
Yesterday's weatber clear, tempers
ture maximum 94; minimum 61; prr
cipitation none. '
?
NOTICE.
Consumers of city water.??
fled that an Impure condition
the water prevails at this time and
boiling water lor drlnldn*
es Is recommended by the City
Health department The 1
will probably be corrected within a
week.
-
I
