THS WEA1
Toc';tt and Ui.':z xr, i
'rounder showers.
Mm
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 197.
BRYAN, TEXAS, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1916.
i
price .co rzn a:
MR. MERCHANT. ,
An ad la The Eugla will bring buyer,
and Mller together.
i -
; 1
Terns Agdn
hy TwwkM
31
Crisco
Is pure and wholesome
and keeps well In warm
weather. . V
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
l"J U itfllLES AfJ HOUR
AT GALVESTdrJ; 2 O'CLOCK
Fll STRUGGLE ON
III STRIKE MATTER
All Partifea t j . Controverey Art In
Washington and Beth Bidet Art
HolJInn Conferences.
The Tropical Storm on the Gulf of Mexico Was'
Expected By the Weather Bureau Today to
Strike the Texas Coast Between Corpus
Christi and Brownsville Galveston Had a 50
Mile Wind at 2 O'clock, This Afternoon and
People Have Been Leaving all Day--C G.
Walker Wired The Eagle From Galveston
That all Bryan Peopje Were Out and Safe.
WITH TIE ALLIES
Minister of War Announced Portugal
Would Soon Enter War With
Allies .
(Bf Associated Press)
Washington. Auk. 18. While the
40 representatives of the railway
employes assembled In secret session
today to tote on the aceppunee or
President Wilson's lan for averting
the natlonwldcatrike. the railroad
presidents and managers held a final
conference before going to the White
Houst at 2 o'clock tnle afternoon.
There were Indications the employes
would vote to accept President Wll
son's proposal of a basla of an eight
hour day and settlement of the side
Issues by a special commission. Hope
tor a aettlement was endangered by I
(Br Associated Press.)
(Br Associated Press.)
i Washington, Aug. 18. The tropical
storm la expected to reach the United
States., eomewhera along the Texat
coast, and hurricane warnings wer
Issued by the weather bureau today
for Corpus Chrlstl and Brownsville,
and storm warnings for the re
Lisbon. Aug. 18. Major Norman .mamoer ot we Texaa coast. Tnt oie
Mattos, the Portuguese minister of 1 turbanee Is approaching the mouth of
war announced today that Portugal .the Rio Grande, but the center la atlll
soon would enter the war. fighting "" distance off the ehore,
n tUm 1,1 . Iha AntotitA alllpB ThA
ui. ui. ' n f -
Bryan reopie Hit.
At 3:40 this afternoon' The Eagle
received the following message from
Claude Walker:
Galveston, Texaa, Aug. IS. Eagle,
Bryan: Storm raging, people' excit
ed; all Bryan people gor?; we are
safe; phone 187. C. 0. WALKER.
Portuguese troops were called to
the colors In March of this year.
War Summary.
London, Aug 18. Heavy attacks
were made by tht French last light
on the Verdun front After violent
fighting at Fleury east of the Meuae,
the French expelled the Germans
from part ot the town which bad been
captured, says the Paris official state
ment Several German ounter at-
this morning. The barometer read
29.04 at noon today and there was a
i T T 1 . . a . .
ij-iuiiB wina mowing, 'mis was a
drop In the barometer of 29.72 aince
8 o'clock this morning.
Stone's Wrapped Ccl:3
Received Fresh Every Day. try a Peek:;
With Your Next Orderl-2 Pour.d
Packdge 10 Cents.
Read Bros.
... ..... iininmrnmnnnn .mj.-.v.i l -mavuxruuf
CITY CGI CIL
SPECIAL riEETfr.'G
II
DEUTSHL1
IS
SAFE AT EHI
Geneva ' Says a Private Tefegram
From Berlin Made Thia An.
nouneemont
(By Associated Prem.y . .
Cenevaj Aug. 11. (Bulletin) A
private telegram received today from
Berlin by the Nue Zuricher 7rltung
Brownsville Not Uneasy. r'D l"B UCM """marine ueutscb-
Brownsville. Hex.. Ana:. 18.- '""u "rr,yea ",e,y l Bremen yes-
Brownsville had the lowest harme-
tvldenres that the railroad presidents . tacks northeast of Maurepas were re- We redIn( on ,he ruf ?
are backing np the managera ina F" o'clock today, with 28.70. A twenty-
1D U7 ,u, mn(j wnd wig b)owlo from th.
night on an extended rront in tne
Verdun region were repulsed all along
the line except at Fleury where the
Is still
were not Inclined to grsnt the eight
tour day unless It was derided by
arbitration. Shortly after noon a
vote on the Present's proposal be
gan at the employes' meeting). It
was expected that more than an hoar
would be required to take the vote
and count It
ngnung la aim in progress, is ui 8torm 8caret visitors.
Gorman version of the fighting. An-j Judj.e r M suppj. ,nd Mr W. E.
other German statement Bays the flh,. .fh tn.lr f.mni. in automo-
o'clock today, with 28.70.
mile wind was blowing
north. Little apprehension Is felt at
the approaching tropical storm.
I
British launched an attack on the
VETOED TIE ill
APPROPRIATION BILL
Had Some Featuree Objectionable to
President Will Bt Re-lntrodued
at Onct.
(Bf AsaoeJatsd Prca I
Washington, Aug. 18. President
Wilson today vetoed the army appro
priation bill because of exemptions
trom discipline for released officers.
It was forced Into H by the House
conferee led by Representative Hay
-over tht opposition of tht war depart'
ment A new bill would necessarily
delay adjournment. Representative
Hay aald he would reintroduce the
bill In tht bousa Immediately with the
features to which the president ob
jected, eliminated.
b!og, passed through the city this
man llnea north of Somme river and tbout j 0-clock en route to
succeeded in driving back the Ger-
i their homes In Waxahachle from
man line for a ahort distance on a fialveston. Judge 8upple said there
narrow front south of Martlnpulch. JWM mnrn nneasiness felt In the Is
Petrograd announcee the Vu'tro-j city, and that at an early hour
German efforts to throw. luck the m mornK retort were slaving
Russians. In Galllcla, resulted In tn.r. br tly, thousands, as well as
great losses and met with ro r uceea. Wlir denn who had weathered
lorwaid in ..., K.fnr u. rennrted a verv
hUrti wind, which was blowing the
spray from the waves over the sea
wall In places, and some vry heavy
rains falling on iht Island.
The Russians pressed
several sections
COTTON RECEIPTS.
Following art the cotton receipt
In Bryan tip to noon today:
Brick Warehouse
Union Warehouse -
Lawrence Warehouse
373
Total
Strejet cotton sold today for HS8
centa; cotton seed sold for 130.00,
Fifty Miles at Galveston.
At 2 o'clock this afternoon The
160.Eale waa Informed by the Western
'2TJnlon that tht wind waa blowing at
" the rate of 50 miles an hour at Gal-
850 veston.
terday from the United States.
conori EXCHANGE
STARTS BUSINESS
cause It was later shown that
waa badly needed, thlnga did not paa
out just exactly aa aomt wanted them
to, and the batUe at thia point waa
staged. -
The bid of Mr. C. C. Vlck on th
parcpl at tht rear, of hia lot tu
Stormy Session Held, the Bone of abova all other bids and he waa sold
Contention Being Over tht Salt itne ,ot and the council ordered tht)
of Certain City Lota. mayor and aecretary to givt him a
. I deed to same. Tht parcel of land at
""" itho rear of the Adams lot waa told to
With the Honorable Mayor of the Mr. Adams at a bid of $100, while th
City of Bryan, Mr. W. W. Harris. pre-i0,l ' Fountain Brothers waa $101.
siding and trying hla best to k?p the .Th council would not consider tht
ruffled waters calm, tht adjourned .difference and tht mayor and secre
j meeting of the city council of the city then ordered to give him a
of Bryan, held last night In the coun-ae to same, on th lot at the rear
cil chamber, will go down In history .of the Hotel Bryan and the hotel an
as one of the stormiest meetings ever ' nex there were two bids, one front
rpld by thia body. jMr- Wilson and the other from Form-
Besldea the mayor, the following ,uln Brothers. The Fountain bid was,
councllmen and city employes were considerably higher than that of Wll
present: Aldermen TrVr HaawelL on-
John C. Vlck. Dr. B. r. Hlma and W. I It la a known fact to everyone wu-
8. Wilson. Jr.; dty health officer. T)r. ,bas kept up with 'thia matter t t CJ
R. J. Hunnlcut; City Secretary Rob- W0UUI almost Impossible for tl
ert Smith, City Enrlrfer A. S. Ad- c,tT f BrTM to give a titlt to theao
mi, Chief Clerk O. P. Blttte and City P'eca of land and It waa here an
Attorney Judge John W. Doremus. 'ed by City Attorney J. W. Do
There were also present as visitors 1imua that a qnlt claim deed was the
who souicht different thlnas. Fire )n,T UtX" the city a freed to give. At
Chief C. E. Jenkins, Mr. I-awrenre nr Robert Armstrong, represent
Parker. Attorney Robert Armstronc. ln Contain Brothers, aald they
Mr. E. J. Fountain, Mr. 8am B. Wll-no wpt this kind of title,
son, Mr. C. C. Vlck. Postmaster John'na on motion of Alderman Sims.'
, E. Astln. Mr. J. C. Jarrett of the after Mr- WIson had alcnlfled a will-
Steairall A Jarrett Pavinc Company. . InKnM 10 accept imch title, tht
Connty" Attorney Lamar Beathea and P' of ,,nd adjoining the hotel and
Wires Are Cut In and Buyers of This
City Will Kebp In Touch With
the World'e Marketa.
The Bryan Cotton Exchange open
ed for buslnesa thia morning. W. W.
Harris. Jr., baa charge of the tele
graph key and thlnga started off very
niceiy on tne nrst day. The jet
change here will get quotations on
the cotton marketa 'at all the great
exchanges. They will also get the
grain marketa and the (provision
markets. There was quit a crowd
present around tht board moat all
day and much Interest waa displayed.
The Eagle will publish each day tht
cotton market'a opening and cloae
from New Tork and New Orleans.
Following art tht quotatlona to
day:
NEW TORK.
others.
the hotel annex were sold to Mr. Wll-
A moher doesen't think her daugh
ters are dolnp her Justice unless they
provide her with a aon-ln-law.
Month.
Barometer Oroos at Corpus.
Corpus Chrlstl, Texas, An. 18. Oct
The buiytln announcing the an-1 Dec,
nroach of the tropical storm on 'the i Jan.
South Texaa coast waa received here
MCE
U I I'M kl II I W n
Something unusually nice for t small town stor W are prepared to show a class of
FURNITURE never before shown in Bryan. .Our store has very recently been fitted with
a number of large DUST-PROOF show rooms in which we have displayed some of the
handsomest period styles of bed room suits made by Grand Rapids Best Furniture Fac
tories. Pay the store a visit, see what we have to show you, visit our Music Depart
ment and be entertained with some of EDISON'S choicest selections, played on the
great Edison Diamond Diso Phonograph.
Ho Fn
March
Month
Oct ..
Dec. .
Jan. ..
March
Opening
...1437
14.55
...14.63
...ll.?
Cloae
14.2S
14 43
1151
14 5
NEW ORLEANS.
Opening
...14.20
...14.40
...14.49
...148
Close
14.07
If 27
14.37
1458
Tstdy
Close
14.29
14.48
14.57
14.70
Tesly
Close
14.11
14.32
1442
14.80
.The first matter to come before the on- Prodded ht would come np to .
council was thai of Belling the lota or tn hii bT Fountain Brothers. Tt! la
parrela of land situated at tht Hear WM agreed to and tht lota were ao'4
of the George A. Adams vacant lot on t0 Mr- W and tht mayor and ec
Maln atreet between the Myers Hard- re,7 wer ordered to execute) k!a
ware Company and the Haswell an- to aame.
jnex to the Hotel Bryan, the narfl ' ln lmu amount netted the city ta
altnated behind the Haswell annex to tn tranaactlona waa 15,027. wtlci
the Hotel Bryan, the piece or parcel MMt, will bt cheerfully welcotd
at the rear of the Holel Brvan. which ,nt0 the clty'e treaaury.
holldlns: Is the pror-rty of Mr. Sam ' T"9 matter of sweeping Main atraot
B. Wilson, and the parcel at the rear w brought np and City Engineer
of the Tacant lot which belongs to Adama waa Instructed to net hla owa
Vlck Brothers, between, the Hotersmeot and aweep tht street aa
Bryan and Fannin atreet These lota WM neceasary lo keep aaaa
were placed at ty city's disposal b ,n od condition,
the removal of tht H. A T. C. and . " brought np that aomt of tht
the I. O. K. transfer track, the de- city employee were on tht frte list
tails of which are well known to all. for wVr hn ,,jrt,u- Afler conaidar
Several weeks aen the cHy conncll bl dlamsslon tht mayor Instruct!
appointed a committee to appralfT Cn,ef nrk B,,tU t0 "iapen tht frtw
these Mi. and after aame waa done. .t collet from everyone aalng
he cltv advertised them for sain lo,w,,er llhta alike,
the hlahest bidder, provided the bld! Hunnlcut wma appointed
Bryan apots, 14 1-8 R. M.
CULBU
were mad eeoerate on each lot and aanftary Inspector and after
they also reserved the rirht to reject discussion about different la-
anv and all bids. . aanltary condltlona In different parte
While It was an affslr that the en- tht city, ht waa given power to act
'tire miMte had a rleht to take nart and told by the council to enforce)
,ln. an far aa bidding was concerned, tht clty't aanltary laws to tht letter.
.It was natnrallr aunnoaed that the ' nied aa city fire mar-
owners of the neorvrtv In front of anai nniu one couw oe serci-a ana
these small wercele of land, whose appointed at the next meeting,
lots far on Main atreet would want , ,
same bad enonth to make a success-1
Ml bid. tt was el- to the edvaMae Trust nattering life no mort. redeem
of the city to eel! them to the hl(h- thia past
... UitfM .. . .. mneh ca.h And live each day aa If It were thy
aa noMlMe for the city treasury. he- laat
1
E TO TEXAS
Wm. Drummond.
nr.-.n.r " ii,.
Wrltsa Waxahachle Frlenda Cannot
Leave Capital While Congress la
In Session.
u j-j1.-j1jj-j-jiuuvTnnrinn.rinrTinririrrrri aa)aaaaiaaaaaaaawawwwwaaaiiiaiia,a)
(Br Asaorlsted Press.)
Waxahachle, Texas, Aug. 1., Sen
ator Culberson who la a candidate
for renomlnatlon In tht aenalorlal
primary of August 26th. will not he
able to address the voters ot Tcxai
as long aa Congress Is In session.
This Information waa contained In a
message to friends here answering
an InvllaUon to speak.
VE BOUT VAHT YOUR BANK ACCOKiT
But Ve Da 7ant Ycur Attention !
Wc want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .Wc would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
VJ. T. JAHEG, Furnituro
