"Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thou write with a goose-pen." Twelfth Night
- SILVER, 65 3-4 CENTS
THE WEATHER
Fair and Warmer Tonight and
8aturday
Tonopah Daily Bonanza
METAL QUOTATIONS
Silver 68
Copper 26J4-27
Lead .... $6.2O$6.30
Qulckailver (70480
VOL. XVI-NO. 55
TONOPAH, NEVADA, FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 18, 1916
PRICE 10 CENTS
11 vi
TOW
0
El
0
B
b a e si ru b h a a
RAILROAD PRESIDENTS STANDING FIRMLY BY THEIR MANAGERS' DECISION
Opposed to Eight Hour Day
Without Official Inquiry
Although Men Willing
(Mf Aaaot-latrd Prraa.)
WASHINGTON, August 18. Thirty
one railroad presidents told President
Wilson they stood Bquarely behind
the decision of their managers' com
mittee that an eight hour day is im
practicable. .
The president refused to take "No"
for an answer to his proposal that
they accept the eight hour day and
asked them to return to the White
House tomorrow with their managers
for another conference.
Later It became known that the
employes voted to accept President
Wilson's proposition, some of the
leaders going to the White House to
Inform him.
It was made clear that the railroad
presidents were not disposed to yield
the eight hour day and Insist on
arbitration. Their attitude seemed
to indicate there Is little change of
the plan proposed by the president
being accepted.
Several .declared the principle of
arbitration in Industrial disputes Is
at stake and must be maintained
even at the cost of a strike.
President Wilson pointed out the
dlsastor which would attend a nation
wide strike and the officials' only an
swer was that they were ready to
arbitrate the question at isBue.
President Holden, of the Burling
ton, pointed out that only the man
agers' committee was authorised to
reach a definite agreement, as it
represented all railroads. Whether
the president continues to insist on
his plan or suggest another to both
sides was not made clear.
Administration officials insist they
will continue negotiations until a set
tlement is reached.
The railroad executives told the
president that as before increasing
freight ratea they were forced to
submit to an Inquiry, before granting
increased pay they should have a
similar Inquiry.
The president's plan la: .
An eight hour day as the basis
for computing wages. '
Regular pay at the eight hour day
rate for overtime.
To refer all collateral Issue to a
smull commission to be created by
Congress.
The proposal is agreeable to the
employes.
With the growing seriousness of
the situation, Congress began paying
more real attention to the crisis to
day and there were many indications
of intervention to prevent nation
vide tie-up.
William J. Bryan, It was learned
today, had sought unsuccessfully to
settle the strike by the application
of his temporary truce peace plan,
having telegraphed pleas to heads of
the various brotherhoods and the
president asking that It be put into
effect. It would provide for a truce
of one year, during which time the
contentions of both sides to the, con
troversy should be investigated thor
oughly by a commission and a settle
ment attempted on the findings of the
commissioners.
Ammunition Enough to Reach Berlin
Carried By the Russians in Galicia
TODAY AND A YEAR AGO
1916
6 a. m 41
9 a. m. .. 49
12 noon .. '. 68
2 p. m. . 64
Relative humidity at
today, 20 per cent.
INFANTILE EPIDEMIC
BOUND TO SPREAD
Warning That All States Must
Take Drastic Measures by
Adopting Safeguards
llf AnMlltHPrtH.)
WASHINGTON. August 18. A
warning that the Infantile paralysis
epidemic may appear next summer in
other states not gravely affected now
unless drastic measures are taken to
control the source, was given at the
National Conference of Public Health
Officials by the special committee
named to recommend ways and
means of suppression. It was recora
mended that the state health author!
ties be notified by a uniform health
certificate of the removal of children
under 16 from the epidemic areas
Quarantine of one state against an
other was disapproved. Schools will
be closed during the epidemic unless
supervised by health authorities.
-
mm MUCKS ARE REPULSED
IHr Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
M)NI)ON August IB. Six determined Herman counter attacks
on the British Irenehes northwest of l'o.icrcs were repulsed with
henvy losses to the attackers, according to the official statement
issued by the War office today. Northwest of Bazentin, the British
captured about 100 yards of Gorman trenches.
PORTUGAL ENTERS WAR
WITH ENTENTE ALIIES
(Br Annotated Prraa.) ,
PETROGKAD, August 18. The continued sueeess of Geu.
Brussiloff's two powerful movements, which gradually are enveloping
Kovel and Ijemberg, have begun to have a marked effect on the
situation in the central portion of the front which, except for small
Russian gains in the lake region south of Dvinsk, has remained
virtually unaltered since the Russians fell back last autumn to the
line from Dvinsk to the Pinsk marshes. . The Austrian line now has
cceded so far before the repeated thrusts of the southwestern
Russian forces in southern Poland and Galicia that the Germans are
in danger of a flanking movement from the south and the automatic
retirement of the forces opposed to the Russian center.
Notwithstanding the desultory bursts of activity at various
points, Russian officers say there are many indications that the
Germans are prepared to abaudon their present line on this part of
the front at any moment.
The correspondent of the Associated Press made a week's tour
along the front commanded by Gen. Alexei Evert from Lake, Narocz
to the region of Baranovichi, and found the Russian soldiers most
anxious for an opportunity to advance as soon as the command is
given. The armies commanded by Gen Evert are the same which;
seized with a shortage of ammunition and supplies, were forced to
surrender a large part of Poland a year ago. Commanders who
brought back only little broken remnants of their regiments to
the present positions now are in charge of splendidly equipped units.
The men share with their officers the determination to recapture
the ground lost in Poland.
A corps commander, who showed a huge supply of ammunition
and material at the disposal of one part of the force engaged in this
sectioit of the front, said: "We have enough ammunition stored
away to take us to Berlin."
The soldiers seem to be plentifully supplied with wholesome food
and are living under the best sanitary conditions. They are
surrounded by comforts and conveniences comparable to those at
a model American summer camp.- Not only has universal vaccina
tion and personal cleanliness, which are now insisted upon, removed
the danger of epidemic, but individual cases of a disease of any
sort are sa.d to be rare. v
nuniiiniHtr in i nr i nr
4 AGAIN IN FULL SWING
DEUTSCHLAND SIGHTED
RUSSIANS
IN MOTION
BRUSSILOFF RESUMES FORWARD
MOVE AND TEUTONS
RETIRE
(By Aaaorlatrd Prraa.)
UNDATED. The Russians, who
temporarily held up their Galiclan
drive through heavy counter attacks
have again begun a forward move,
Petrograd announces that the Teu
tonic armies failed to throw back
Gen. Brussiloff's force and the Rus
sians again are advancing.
The French have resumed the of
fensive in the Verdun region, accord
ing to Paris, and have succeeded In
drlvinl the Germans from part of
Fleury. The Germans made an un
expected counter move on the Maure-
pas section of the Somme front, but
fulled under French fire.
Br Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
PARIS, August 18. Germany's submarine warfare against mer
hant ships is again in full swing, according to the naval expert
of the Temps, who declared that this new submarine campaign
follows the German note to the United States of February 10 in
which it was said: ,
"Merchant ships carrying guns cannot be considered as peaceful
ships."
According to the Temps the Germans are acting under this
notice and says that three days ago the Italian ship Plata repulsed
with gunfire attacks on an enemy submarine. The article concludes
with an emphatic declaration that a similar course will be followed
by other commanders of allied merchant ships, undismayed by "the
murder of Captain Fryatt."
ARMY BILL
BELGIANS WIN BATTLE
IN GERMAN EAST AFRICA
Br Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
HAVRE, AugUHt 18 A brl-
gade of Belgian troops have cap-
tured and occupied the port of
Karema, on the eastern bank of
Lake Tanganyika, In German
Bast Africa.
IS VETOED
WHITE HOUSE DICTATOR WILL
NOT ACCEPT REVISION
BY CONGRESS
SEAPLANES RAID RIGA
AND RETURN SAFELY
(Br Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
BERLIN, August 18. An official communication tells of a raid
by German seaplanes on Russian positions on Oesel island and of
a fight against Russian aircraft on Runoe island, in the Riga region
Tuesday night. The communication says:
"Tuesday night our seaplanes again attacked with explosive and
incendiary bombs the aerodrome at Papenholm, on Oesel island (at
the entrance to the Gulf of Riga) and enemy aeroplanes on the
shore of Runyon (in the Gulf of Riga). Despite a heavy anti
aircraft fire and a subsequent air fight, our seaplanes returned
safely.
"The same night" there was an air raid by four aeroplanes on
Angcrn lake (near the western shore of the Gulf of Riga), but only
slight material damage resulted."
OFF THE GRAND BAN (S
Br Aaaorlalrd Preaa.)
BOSTON, August 18. The sighting of a large submarine,
believed to be the German merchantman Deutschland off the Grand
Illinks Saturday, was reported by members of the crew of the
Aviarren liner Sachem, in last night from La Pallice, France and
Liverpool. The submarine was traveling in a northeasterly direction
at '.moderate speed.
3oon after the submarine was sighed the steamer was turned
toward her, the Sachem's officers believing at first she was a
dismasted vessel. A few minutes later the submarine submerged and
was not seen again;
The quartermaster said that on her second day out from France
the Sachem was pursued for eight hours by two submarines,
believed to be Germans. The Sachem, making 14 knots an hour,
succeeded in keeping out of danger.
ES
ARRIVES
111 SAN FRANCISCO
URGES CO-OPERATION OF ALL
CLASSES FOR PROSPERITY
OF THE COUNTRY
where he spoke briefly, returning to
the hotel, where he addressed a meet
ing of women. He makes an address
at the Exposition Auditorium tonight.
INFANTILE PARALY8IS
TAKES ITS DEADLY TOLL
AMERICAN AMBULANCE CORPS
CITED IN GENERAL ORDERS
I Br Aaaarlatrd Praas.)
PARIS, August 18. A Bectlon of
seven American ambulances in the
field service was cited by Gen Magln
In an army order Issued today for
gallant services.
. , Br Aa.orl.trd Prraa.) ,r Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
LISBON, August 18. The mln- ! WASHINGTON, 'August 18. The
Istry announce that Portugal president decided to veto the army
soon will participate in the war, J appropriation bill
fighting on the side of the en- j,
tents allies. 4
after
W. B. CRR and family were ar
rivals last, night from Reno in their
BRITISH WAR LOAN
IS OVER SUBSCRIBED
(Br Aaaarlatrd Prraa.)
NEW YORK, August 18. Syndicate
participations in the new British I
quarter billion loan are so large that
subscription books have closed. The.
book for publio subscription will,
open ant iwt
features the president found objec
tionable. There are broad intimations that
the revision by which It was pro-
nosed to remove retired officers from
the Jurisdiction of court martial was
of Interest to certain retired officers
awaiting the time when they would
be Immune from discipline to make
public attacks on the army.
Chairman Hay followed the an
nouncement by re-Introducing the bill
with not only the section the presi
dent objected to, but the whole revi
sion of the articles of war eliminated.
This threatens to complicate the situ
atlon because the president and the
War department favor revision to
make the articles of war conform to
modern conditions.
BANDITS SEIZE
I
Br Aaaarlatrd Prraa.)
WOODLAND, August 18. Hughes
delivered his first speech in Cali
fornia here on his way to San Fran
cisco. He met at Gerber a delega
tion from San Francisco who accom
panied him down the west side of
the valley.
Hughes here emphasized the need
of the co-operation of all classes, call
ing the American government a great
co-operative enterprise. He said the
people should work for permanent
prosperity and not rely on that cre
ated by the European war.
Ill
OURANGO
discussing
with Secretary Baker. This will
necessitate the passage of a new
measure and possibly delay the ad
journment of CongresB. The bill con
tains provision for support of the
army as Increased and for troops
now on the Mexican border.
Chairman Hay said he understood
the veto was because of a revision
of the articles of war which he had
forced into the bill over opposition
of the president and War department.
Veto because of exemptions from
discipline for retired officers forced
Into the bill by House conferees.
Hay said he would reintroduce lmme-l Location notices In book form at
dlately another bill eliminating the' the Bonanza. Price 11.25.
REVOLUTIONISTS TAKE BUNCH
OF CARRANZA PRISONERS
AND ROB TRAIN
I Br Aaaorlalrd Praaa.)
EL PASO, August 18. Sixty revo
lutionists held up a passenger train
on the Mexican National, near Agtins
Callentes, Durango, taking prisoners
25 Carransa soldiers acting as an
escort.
I Br Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
WASHINGTON, August 18. The
child labor bill passed without debata
In the House with the Senate amend
menta unchanged.
I Br Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
NEW YORK, August 18. The
Health department reports only a
slight change in the epidemic of in
fantile paralysis. Thirty two died
yesterday and 125 new cases developed.
TEMPERATURE REPORT
Highest temperature yesterday, 75;
lowest this morning, 41.
Highest temperature a year ago,
84; lowest, 64.
Br Aaaorlalrd Prraa.)
SAN FRANCISCO, August 18.
Hughes - arrived from Portland at
12:60 o'clock this afternoon. He Is
scheduled to address two meetings,
one this afternoon and one tonight
Larae crowds greeted him at the
Ferry building, whence he was taken!
to the Palace hotel, where he rested
briefly after greeting the reception
committee.
While here Hughes will be under
the eye of the "Anarchy Squad,"
formed In the police department since
the preparedness parade bomb out
rage. At every place he stopped de
tails of police were In evidence.
Traffic policemen left their stations
to keep the crowd back while Hughes
was brought from the Ferry building
to the hotel.
From the Palace hotel Hughes
went to the Union League club.
BUTLER
THEATRE
BETTER PICTURE
TONIGHT
"A WOMAN' HONOR"
Starring beautiful Jose Collins
Vaudeville
Little Mitt Annabelle Happel and
Mist Goldfield In Entire Change of
8ongs and Dances
Tomorrow
Double Bill
"The 8pell of the Yukon"
Edmund Breeae
And
Charlie Chaplin
In Two Reel Comedy
Matinee 1:30 Night 7:164:4
Admleaten 10-1ee
