THE TENSAS GAZETTE
W G tle P.bERiE l hi. P , O Ld. Officia Paper of te Pari, Ts cI B Fibtr uiDA , AlvT8 Di9 ric. Biar -
N E S E-I S V~,L-- ,.._ .- - - - X X V *o u S T D i t i t LI F
SNEW SERIES.VOL. XXV ST. JOSEPIR, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1916
. ....AKA ,R~a ......a· ! ~ n Iron
F[SSIOHAL CARDS
-.--- ·- - ._- - - - - - -- - _ - - --- ,
DR. L. A. MURDOC
StL Japh Ia.
el nlg s and glo
Oles ePmPak Seed.
a e Phon* 1t8 ReeldeaMs.. s
S4L It, M. D. . & T2teM. i
me. .ILLY AND ThICE
Ammsenrte O r " A dam
St. Jem.p, La s
,om Bank Bld., up Atfai
G. H. CLINTON
Attorney-at-Law
ST. JoSEPH, LA.
Wm psegth - amest Cerll. Mjadi9 e
'Teses, Coeardt, and the suBpme
ad Frderal Courts.
DR. GEORGE N. CLARK
ST. JOSEPH, . . LOUISIANA
in Neman kRdin, Pmsak Reed
W. D. NOBLE, LM. D.
Physlelan and Surgeon.
OffMo6 Phone No. 2$.
Reeldenoe Phone No. 1t'
NIEW LLTON, - - - LOUISIANA,
THOMAS M. WADE, JR
Attrneyt-Lsw
WUl peastSee I Teseas sad adfe
s Parishesthe Suprem Court el
State. and the Federal O t I
aem notatekd a real estate
V. JOSEPH, * - LOUISIANA
.-'. NATCHEZ CONFECTIONE~ Z
Confectlone and Sweets
Of All Kinds.
CANDIES, CAKES, ICE CREAM.
WE SOLICIT
WEDDING AND PARTY
ORDERS
Our Restaurant is now open and eu
servico is uncelled.
IfATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY. t
NATCHEZ, - . - MISSISSIPPlI h
BT. "SENATOR CARDIIZ'
. PRINC, Master n
O0. L WILDS, Clat e
Rqet r Tr-Weekly
NATCHEZ & VICKSBURG
PACNET
Laves Nateabs Sundays. Tuesdaps
and Thursdays at 13 mooa.
Leavee Vleksbuzr Mondays. W h
aeedays sad Fridays at ogs, er n b
earrival et express t.ra
ti
We Print Sale Bills I
and we can handle all be
lines of job prtnting -
It makes no differenee to
how large or small the a]
job may be. Call at this a
omce and look over our h
samples of letter heads,
envelopes, business eards and wed- er
ding stationery. You'll be pleased' hi
with our work, and prices will sult.
r .t Werk... Mst Reasiable Prik
th
-olNl
If you are a busine.s man,
bd you ever think of the rield
of opportunity that advertis
ing opens to you? There is
almost no limit to the possi
bilities of your business if you thl
study how to turn trade into Ch
H,
your store. If you are not get- to
ting your share of the business
of your community therr's a st
rearon. People go where they da
are attracted-where they n
kn)ov what they can get and ne
how much it is sold for. If
you make direct statements in his
your advertising see to it that
you are able to fulfill every
promise you nake. You will
add to your business reputa- £
tion and hold your customers.
It will not cost as mtch to run
your ad in this paper as you
think. It is the persistent ad- is
vertiser who gets there. Have str
something in the paper every e"l
issue, no matter how small. Itr
We will be pleased to quote w
you our advertising rates, par
Why Snakes Roamed in Classic Chicago Suburb
H1ICAGO.-It was Main street, Evanston, the classic suburb of this city
It wdk after midnight--some minutes past the time when a great industr3
in Chicago closes up for a day. The thick-set man was ambling slowly along
the walk, at peace with the world. He
was even singing. Suddenly he
s4 topped; a small garter snake had
W wriggled across his path.
The song ended. The man closed
a his eyes, and laughed foolishly. Then i
he opened them again. This time ,"
there were two snakes on the walk.
The man threw his hat at them,
laughed nervously, and walked on.
And every few feet he saw more
snakes.
- Three college students, walking
arm in arm, exuberant vocally, stared stupidly at the snakes, turned and ran.
A thin man with his hat askew screamed that he was bitten.
The reason?-The "tub scouts"-the boys of the block, annoyed at the
regular Saturday night and Sunday morning demonstrations on Main street,
collected two palls of snakes Saturday morning and put them to work.
Tips and "War Babies" Form Rich Combination
r NEW YORK.-Here is evidence that the "War Babies" have increased the
dIl bank oll of the serving man. The other day a guest of the Plaza hotel
A found a bank book in the grill showing deposits of $25,000. He turned It over
to the management of the hotel. The
EE I'Ml hook was placed In the safe and the
S clerks notified to look out for the
S \ * * LADDTOET owner.
nM BANK For several days it was noticed
bOOK ACI1( that one of the servitors was wearing a
'i Ab mournful look, but his associates
T thought he was laboring under the
ITT ,ALL burden of some great tragedy. He was.
FR7AMEZD.U He was wondering who had found his
VaP- hank book. It was quite by accident
Y"' that the waiter, who is a firm believer
in the tipping system, overheard the
assistant manager telling of the finding of the bank book. A few minutes later
the deft juggler of eatables approached the hotel official and diffidently asked
6 him to get the bank book, and please not to "tip off" the head warier that it
was his, for the latter might think It was time for him to retire on his income.
The assistant manager breathed heavily, for he had just tipped this waiter.
The waiter was much relieved. But the various officials of the hotel, from
managing director to the room clerks, are all wearing deeply thoughtful
expressions.
Heroic Seven-Year-Old Boy Saves a Baby Girl
PITTSBURGH. PA.-"I rescued the gir-r-r-1, but it wasn't nothin' brave,"
murmured Joseph Bright, seven years old, joint hero with Robert Calpass,
nine, in the saving of the life of little Veda Johnston, four, when the Johnston
home at McKees Rocks was destroyed
by fire.
Veda was in a first-floor bedroom
when the fire began. As the flames, / .
which started on the second floor, ate
their way quickly through the thin
partitions and floors of the dry frame
building, the child remained in the
room, for the moment forgotten by the
frantic mother and the excited neigh- .
bors.
Then, discovering it was difficult
to breath,- in the fast-thickening smoke *
and becoming terror-stricken when she saw a sheet of flame burst through the
wall beiside her, the hbly screamed for help. Joe, who was on the outside,
heard the little girl's cries, and. amid falling embers and smoke too dense to
endure for more than the mlloment, rushed to her side, gathered her quickly in
his arms and rushed for the dllr.
The floor of the room had already become weak from the gnawing of the
flames, but Joe and his burden reached the door in safety.
As the little hero emerged from the building, then a furnace of fire, bearing
the girl in his arms, a cheer broke spontaneously from the crowd. Little Veda,
the pet of the neighborhood, had been saved in the nick of time.
Wrong Tune Silenced Detroit Wedding Bells
DETROIT.-Loule Fuchs wants to get back at the head of his German band,
Ibut he can't. Joseph Wilczek wants to get married, but he can't. The reason
Is a little altercation which occurred on the East side several days ago when
Wilczek became offended at a piece
Fuchs and his band were playing.
he Wilczek became so angered that
1 . he struck Fuchs over the head and
"drove out all of the latter's musical
talents."
Wllcsek was arrested for this act
and fined $25 In police court. The
0 , crowd in the courtroom was surprised
when a pretty young woian stepped
, up and paid his fine.
"We're going to be married soon
and I want to pay his fine," she told
thl, rep',rterd. But Fuchs didn't even recover his musical powers while
chuckling over the embarrassment that he had caused Wileek in police court.
lhie tarted out with his band, but he couldn't "get anything across." They had
to give It up for a bad job.
So Fuchk sought further revenge. Through his attorney, Louis Ott. he
started suit against W'ilczek In Justice Theodore Richter's court for $500
Sdamages, alleging that W'ilczek had destroyed all of his musical talents.
"I can't play nothing." said Fuchs. "Since that knock on the head I don't
know one tune from another. I am like a baby. My doctor says that I may
never be able to play again."
Wflczek's sweetheart, who came to his aid In police court, refused to marry
him until his troubles are settled.
"I want this thing settled," she said. "I don't want any cloud hanging over
our head or anything to mar the wedding bells."
'o Wilczek is as anxious to get the case settled as is Fchs, who is praying
Ifor ipower oncei more to play his bass viol and direct the band.
Meanwhile the other members of the German band are searching around
Sdr a leader to assume the duties of the heart-broken Louie.
CAKE NOT UP TO HIS EXPECTATIONS.
aIInving heard that the open season was at hand for stauwberry shorteake,
a Columbus young man went to a restaurant and ordered a portion. He had
visions of the kind his mother used to make-two layers of genuine cake, with
strawberries in between and so many on top that the cake wes hidden. He
remembered how the biggest, sweetest and best berries were saved for the
cake that mother made. And over it would go some sort of miture of sagar,
strawberry uoicle and butteA. Then you could have real cream If yea wished
While ne was dreaming of the past, a waiter brought his Mabrteae. It war
so little he looked twice to Sad it. A tew Mtl uuaty beuIa were m tp s
tea e -
li storic
Crimes
dfd
M stenie
THE CURE AND THE CALDRON.
Te the tired traveler the village of
Croix-1*raude, three miles from Tou
louse, is much like other drowsy
French villages; but if he remains
there a few hours he will hear a story
that will awaken his interest in the
place. For Croix-Daraude was the the
ater of a crime that has been talked
about in the vicinity for more than
two hundred years.
In the year 1700 Saturnin Siadoux
was a prosperous oil manufacturer
there. He had his own establishment,
was out of debt, and was happy and
comfortable in his family relations.
He was sixty years old, a widower,
and the father of three sons and two
daughters. He had a sister, the widow
Mirailhe, who lived at Toulouse. Her
husband had left her well provided
for, although his affairs were badly
tangled when he died in an unexpected
and extemporaneous mlanner. She had
a neighbor named Cantegrel, who was
of th9 greatest assistance in straight
ening out her financial affairs. Can
tegrel was a butcher, but he was well
educated and had the acumep of a
lawyer, and he didn't charge the widow
a red son for his aid. It is not sur
prising, therefore, that Madame Ei
railhe was grateful. ' "
Now, this Madam Mirailie'had told
her brother, Saturnin, in so many
words that she would not marry again,
and that when she died her money and
property would go to his children.
Saturnin was not greedy or covetous,
but he was disturbed when he heard
ii
1
"If You Answer Our Questions Truly, You Have Nothing to Fear-" He
-Pointed 8ignificantly to the Caldron.
stories to the effect that Cantegrel
was courting his sister with great en
thusiasm, and that his sister regarded
him with unmistakable favor. Saturn
in had reason to believe that Cantegrel
was a wicked man, and he went to
Toulouse to investigate. There he
heard many rumors which amounted
to nothing, and one story which he
considered worth investigating' It was
to the effect that Cantegrel had com
mitted various crimes in Narbonne;
where he formerly lived.
Saturnin Siadoux was a close
mouthed man. He told his children
that he was going to Narbonne for a
few days, but said nothing about the
purpose of his visit. A day or two
after his departure the sons received
a letter announcing his arrival at Nar
bonne, and saying that he would re
turd home on a certain day. There
was so much affection and good feel
ing in this family that the sons and
daughters decided to have a big sup
per to celebrate the father's return,
and so invited various friends, includ
ing the cure. Father Pierre Celestin
Chaubard. The hour came when the
parent should have returned, but he
was missing. The guests sat at the
groaning board; they waited an hour
or two, and then it was assumed that
Saturnin must have been delayed some
where, so the feast was proceeded
with. And throughout the feast the
conduct of the priest attracted the at
tention of the younger son. Father
Chaubard, who usually was fond of
good viands, could not eat. He trifled
with his food, and sighed heavily.
The guests departed after the meal,
and the children and Madame Miralthe
looked aaznously up the tead tie ead
agal for the belated mtinra. At
 . e,," t--, ,- -,*,.
stretched on a litter. He had been
stabbed eleven times where he had fal
len, on the bank of the Lers river.
The officers of justice busied them
selves, but could find no clew that
pointed to the murderer. The three
sons of Saturnin, who loved their
father passionately, vowed that they
would track down and bring the crim
inal to punishment if they had to de
vote their lives to the task. The two
older sons sought for clews every
where, and all in vain. The whole
business was in impenetrable mystery.
The younger son said little, but sat
brooding and thinking in quiet places.
At last he went to his two brothers
and said: "If we would know the
truth we must force it from Father
Chaubard! He knows! He knew when
he was at our feast why father did not
return!"
The older brothers were shocked;
the younger brother was insistent.
The latter had force of character, and
soon brought his brothers to his way
of thinking. They consulted together
a long time, and decided upon a plan
for learning the truth.
Louis and Thomas went to the
priest's house, and told him that
Madame Mirailhe was in great dis
4 tress, and begged his presence. The
cure, always ready to help others,
)f agreed to go at once, although the
L- night was wild and wet. He accom
,y panied them to the Siadoux home.
is "Come into the factory first," said
y they, and the priest, who seemed dazed
e with trouble, followed them. There
-. the younger son was standing by a
d huge caldron of boiling oil. He locked
n the door after the others entered.
He pointed significantly to the cal.
x dron. The unfortunate priest trembled
r as the brothers closed around him.
L, His eyes were full of agony, his lips
d bloodless, and his brow covered with
cold sweat.
r. "Our father was brought home mur
o dered," said the inexorable Jean. "Do
, you know who slew him?"
r "I do," feebly answered the cure.
d "Then name him!"
y "Never!" shrieked the priest. "My
d knowledge was obtained in the con
d fessional. If I betray the secrets of
a the confessiopal I commit sacrilege.
. Beware, my sons!"
. Jean motioned to his brothers.
1 They, stalwaft men, seized the priest
a and held him over the bubbling oil.
v The horror of the awful death that
threatened him was too much for the
cure. "I will tell," he gasped, and
they put him down on the floor. Then,
I weepi.g, racked with anguish and re
y morsl the priest said that Cantegrel
had cdhfessed, immediately after mur
I dering Saturnin. In some way the
butcher had learned of the old man's
4 trip to Narbonne, and guessed at the
I nature of his errand. He knew that
I Siadoux mast have learned things
which would disgrace him in the wid
I ow's eyes forever, so he ambushed the
old man on the way home. Then he
I fled to a church, and, by the merest
I accident, Father Chaubard was in that
church and heard his confession.
Having told all-he knew, calmness
returned to the priest, but it was an
awful calmness, such as might come
to one who had resigned himself to
the executioner.
"I forgive you, my sons." he said,
gently. "Pray for me when my time
comes."
The brothers hastened at once to
Toulouse to lay their Infermation be
fore a magistrate, and when the mag.
istrate heard their story his face was
ghastly, and his eyes sick with terror.
"Better for you had you never been
born," said he. The brothers were
sublimely ignorant of the awful conde.
quences of their act. They soon
learned that the violation of the con
fessional was the unpardonable crime.
They had the satisfaction of seeing
the murderer sentenced to death and
broken upon the wheel, but at the
time they were themselves under sen
tence of death.
The poor priest, who yielded under
threat of a terrible death in a caldron
of oil, suffered a much worse fate. He
was broken upon the wheel, and, while
still living, tied to a stake and burned.
After the punishment of the priest,
which stirred the people to fury, the
sentiment in favor of the three Sia
doux boys became so intense that the
parliament suspended the death sen
tence. Thomas Siadoux won the heart
of the Jailer's daughter, and she mea- s
*pd to release the three brelabs,
aer draler her athg . he
Li
EDISON'S
it LATEST STYLE CABINET-HORNIZISS
PHONOGRAPH .t
'O QUWI'MD WITH
y7
e he Diamomnd Reprodueer and the Blue Amberd beard
. Ie nmew Blue Ambreal Resrd Is pratically IadeMeadtlu
it Whn l a with the disoe Diamond eprod e the Uie
and werteune of the orislaal music are fathfully pOwesue sad
the resot Is hee from melol qulty. OtaIs rw.
JOHNSTON'S CHOCOLATES HAVE BECOME INTERNATIONAL.
FAVORITES, AND ARE RECOGNIZED AS THE
WORLD'S FINEST CONFECTIONS.
y Some of the Meet Popular Sellere Arel 'im'T'
n INNOVATIONS SWEET, TRIAD, QUINTETTE,
MALTED MILK. CHOCOLATE BRAZIL NUTS IN CREAM,
eut THAT PACKAGE, EXTRAORDINARY, mUC.
Put up in dainty packages, from 80 to $5.00.
Hugo Jereslaw,
NEWELLTON, - - LOUISIANA
Hot Springs, Ark.
THE NATION'S FASHIONABLE PLAYGROUND
NATURE'S GREATEST SANITARIUM
&. QUICKEST TIME AND BEST SERVICE
VIA
----IRON MOUNTAIN---.
FoPer Full Infermatlon as to Schedules, Rates, Et., er foree
Illustrated Booklet, See Yeour Lcal Tlket Agent, or utse
Dan Jacobs, A.G.P.A. "
- - . - - - i
AGENTS FOR:
Pe Vine RakesPLOWS
Thomas Hay Rakes and Mowere
Allen's Planet Jr. Cultivators
Wlnchester Arms Co.
Colts Fire Arme Co.'=OWE
Howe SleeARROWS
Smith A Weson Revolvers
MIlburn A Hickman Wagene
Champln Meowing Machines
H BetlgcBooker Plow. C CUTIVATORS
Vulvmn Plow Co.
Banner BuggIes
Moline Plow Co.
Starrette FIne Tools
.... ,,. , PLOWGEAR
Sterling Emery Wheel C. L
LEWIS HOFFMAN HARDWARE
Hofma Block - . - - Vicksburg, Mim.
Thos J. Holmes,
Tin and Sheet iron Worker,
LESPEDEZA SEED PANS FOR SALB
By the use of this pan attached to the eutter bar
of Mowing Machij you ean save from one to two
bushels of seed tdl acre.
Wol t;el "1n Tat o b em"
Has all tie best features a a Arst.l hoteL
a frnnE SHOP, BATH ROOMS, AND AN EXCELLENtr
BILIARD ROOM
favorite stOpplng pIle sor 1ams peeopl.
JAS. G. SMITH, -I Prpri
Are You Going to Build?
N ca eury at te Mid unkder the moes fsvworable conditims
y seeing us about the lmber require for te purpor.
To bdld eeamiIomw y, budld wel
103 HIGHl-GRADEP W3LL-MANUFACITURED MOUG
Dors, ma, asAcrulm.Imh sou.
CI a as WUntalea specialty 6 taing Leaf YedaL P~l
moodr.j AUlrM get our prief and seveaUes r
E A.ENOCHS,'The Lmbeau .
, NATUiW ,
