mmmm-i
. i-.
..,'
S?."Jf.-?4a&3SSvVi- ; ," .? 'J?
'rV "V
. ?WF3HltiKMI
teSKTiswv ' tcf.i.Frc.,K''
$l-cv7'
;r$mv r ' - r ;w " ;?:
.. ?1 ! ' .j&ittfl
wy '
' "' ' V:$Ti4n1';!.,Fr
.. ',$?' -"r . - ,?r &
',(&$ v .
,,'j.l',-r4.VT- 't4,ipTfi!
rv a --;. troti,"3-i
si'.. ' - '"&,
4fBmk.-xi"y. . -. .. -. ..,. ..?.: '
er.of Northern v"
"pwi irget wewuy wrcuinon.iBsT-.y :; ,
na ' ',
jj, t ttorinern Anions - ,, v
f V A Modern Printery -
V " 4. .5. 4, 4. 4
Fine Commercial Printing;
v- ! J -J- -t J- -I- -I- -5 -J- J -I- -! -I -? -J-
VOLUME XXXIII
FLAGSTAFF, ARIZONA, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1916 ,
NUMBER 41
-' -K ik'.. .v. !."' ' ,iY.-.aiau?.!..toAiilli...aJkfKMkfcji&4jui ..' ..
4Ef;wii!l-HiiUP
L'&M?" J5i-, fc-s
.Jflfcaflf'A.'-JiS:
t - ft jTMBHaBgWB!"Ki . ,
.' JVi;I f iiiftStaii.rt'tWti.T1!vW Vi1ri'i!Ba5SSIS':''"SSffiV'' .
' -miemmk'--
' ' 'KmSSW'!f- AYAfP'-slWT
I ''!WSimm9mYr
wc . ' JBiJ,t vriAiBLant' -J ,.v , - " r .. '.", ---.-. .jf.
tfSLV, V. 4-v . . ' 7 '.V
i&HtfHngKtaKa
F "-." ,- .' - ' ' T , 1
f Wmi
IqHWAAiWAs '
vmnz
.' A. b.J fl T
Cocuniim
y&
I)C
&M
3. ?'
H"
AieD.
Ik;
VT7
f
:
,
-,V:-
I
i
4
" t
'.4
S. W. BIBLE CONFERENCE
BRINGS MM PEOPLE HERE
Tho Southwestern "BiWe and' Mjjtv
sionary conference is drawng to, a
close of one of tho most succesful
series of meetings ever held on their
grounds cast of Flagstaff. From a
small and meager bcginning'the mem
bers of the original organization have
built up a conference that has gath
ered people from all over the South
west to Flagstaff to participate in
their work. It now one of the im
portant events of the summer for
' Flagstaff.
Few people who are not directly
interested realize tho full importance
of these annual meetings, or how. fortune to loose his right hand, but
much they are doing for the benefit with characteristic energy he has
of Flagstaff as a city. made his left do the workof both and
At the present conference there has never faltered in .doing a man's
were over ,150 people from all parts work when there was a man's work
of the county in attendance during ( to bo done, regardless of its kind or
their ten days' session. It has been 1,charactcr. He asks no consideration
demonstrated that Flagstaff .and its from the voter on this account, but on.
surroundings encompass the real sum-
mer meeting place for ,the people and
for all purposes.
During tije past few years this, or
ganization has built a permanent
place for their meetings on govern-
ment leased lands, with buildings and
improvements well worth $10,000. ,
They have not solicited contributions ,
from the people here, but have gone,
ahead on their own account to make
a permanent home for the confer-,
ences.
During the last year nearly $3000
additional has been spent in putting
up a dining hall to accommodate 200
people, and other improvements
; which will bring between 250 to S00
people hero next year.
Wm. M. Rudd Will Make
Race for Representative
William M. Rudd Is the latest can
didate to have his hat thrown into
thering, and will be a candidate for
the nomination on the republican tick
et for the office Of state representa
tive. no was born in Apache county and
has spent his whole life in Northern
Arizona, where he is well and favor
ably known by all the people. About
fifteen years ago he came to Coconino
county, which has been his home
since. For a few years he was in the
Forest Service as 'a Ranger and later
resigned to po into the cattle busi-L
resigned to go into the cattle
ness for himself. He proved his busi-
ness ability in handling his own busi
ness affairs and recently disposed of
them at a good advance.
While Mr. Rudd lays no claim to
being an orator, his friends claim
without exception that he knows
what 'should be- done, in the best in
terests of the people and is always
wiling to take a decided stand on
any issue of the kind where their in
terests arc affected. He has "put jn
his whole life in this section of the
country and his interests are all here;
he does not have to be told what has
happened in the past or what should
happen in the 'future to best benefit
the people who live here.
HeOias the reputation for honesty
and fair dealing that any young man
may well be proud of, and his friends
believe that he would most compe
tently fill the place.
Santa Fe Newspaper Man Likes
Flagstaff
Mr. Brian Boru Dunne, a member
of the editorial staff of the Santa Fe
New Mexican, published at Santa Fe,
was in Flagstaff Saturday calling on
his friend James Swinnerton and
other friends. Mr. Dunne was on his
way back to Santa Fe from a person
ally conducted, excursion of his own
on the coast and stopped off here for
a few gulps of mountain air before
going to tho Petrified Forest near
Adamana and on to his "old home
town" at Santa Fe.
Owing to the particular Italian
twist to his name we did not pull any
of tho "battle of Boyne" stuff on
Dunne, consequently he gave Flag
staff and its surroundings a good
send-off, remarking that "it looked
, like a live place to him, and one
that had a splendid future before
it." '.
Many of these editor fellers, to
which tribe Dunne belongs, are apt
to "Dooley" you' if you are not nice
to them; we-did. not even criticise the
stray dog that followed him around.J
Wins Second Money at Futurity
Axworth Dillion, the three-year-old
filly belonging to T. E. Pollock, won
second money at tho big futurity race
in Santa Rosa last week. Tho filly
trotted herself into second place in
two of tho heats and came out first
in the third heat. Tho time was not
learned.
WILLIAM BEESON IS OUT
FOR COUNTY .TREASURER
Few men are better known over the
county than William Beeson, who an
nounces himself thjs week as a can
didate for the ofllco of county treas
urer, subject to the republican pri
maries. He is Jhe only republican
candidate for that office to so far an
nounce himself for the place.
Mr. Beeson has been a resident of
Flagstaff since his boyhood. He has
made good from the time ho was old
enough to work, and his success as a
business man was brought about by
his own efforts, unaided except by his
willingness to work and ability to do
his work "well.
In his early youth he had the, mis
the basis of his ability and willing'
ness to serve the people faithfully and
honestly in the 'important office ho
seeks.
If the voter is seeking one who is
competent and has made his way
from the ranks by his own efforts, one
whose sole interest is the interest of
the people, they can vote for Mr. Bee-'
son with a t clear conscious and know
that the many harrowing details of
that office will be cared for in a busi-
nesslike manner invevery respect:
j
WORK COM5IENCED ON NEW
HERMAN CO. BUILDING
William Mullen was awarded the fining the exact number of people
contract to build a brick and con-. of the different parties in the state,
crete business Tmilding with a fifty- j believing that a majority wero-demo-foot
frontage on San Francisco street cratic. With this list sworn to by the
, Ior l?c "crman ury uoous lo., last
WCGK.
The building will be an up-to-date
' hu:'" ZmiZ Z h Z BZ2 , ,raiu tnc PrPer sort
I J" J", 7 2fiB!.kf th.em.in l nc .afc.ord! ir
I ironi, one story in neigni, wun a
basement the full size of the build
ing. The walls of the building will be
sufficiently strong to. carry it up two
or more stories as needed.
The work of excavating and clear-
ing the ground for building material
, inef Wednesday
: was coiiunenceu ay ounii vjiubiiuiiu
1 1 T1 fn.l-1.l
tj,,, building will fill a long felt
wn,n a bd g on San FranciX
!.. -., " 5.7.. : .w .'...
busi-!Btrect( amj grcatly irapr0ve that sec -
tjon 0f tne cjty
em nnm i.iiit. fnnvovnii That
-... hu-; ,...v...o v.v. ...
Will
Tia T t 1-1. TT
Sam Quay, millwright at the F. L.
rv. eo.Trniii .mi roontiv irmnii
w..K .h xu..u., x.c
M. Co. sawmill, was recently granted
cleat," an invention he has,been work-J
lrr in -fnt iht nnef aiii vonrc frtA
cessful operation in their mill. The registering officer had a right to reg -
conveyor now used by them is the istcr the voter as hc saw fit and af
largest one in the southwest, and car- tcr that; like the,aWa of tho Mceda
nes all usable block wood to thewopdand Pcrsians, thcrc could not be
yard without handling ;by hand. J change for life, providing they reg-
x.ii. wu.w. . .. .. .. -
purposes, including sawdust and re
fuse. The cost of the new invention
is less than half that of all other old
style conveyors and is much cheaper
in tho upkeep; the one now in use at
the mill has not cost a ccnt in re-
pairs during the past two years, and
it does its work with great efficiency.
Mr. J. C. Dolan, president of- thc F.
L. M. Co., has taken an interest in the
patent and a company will soon be
incorporated to put it on the. market.
At the present time the conveyor
cleats will be manufactured for them
by another foundry company, but as
soon as the business is developed the
company contemplate thc building of
a foundry of their own in Flagstaff.
iu.. HUy a ..uu .. -1
for the patent by manufacturers, but
refused to sell.
r o i i.j int.:n r
Sawmill men who have seen the
patent cleat agree that it is one of
thc best things of the kind so far in
vented. Elks' Grand Secretary
-. Is a Flagstaff Visitor
Fred Robinson, the genial grand
secretary of the Benevolent and Pro
tective Order of Elks, arrived in Flag
staff Wednesday from Iowa, accom
panied by Dr. J.' C. Powers, of Hamp
ton, Iowa, a brother of M. S. Powers
of this city; Dr. Osborne, of Hamp
ton, Iowa, and Mr. Ray, a banker of
Allison, Iowa.
Secretary Robinson will remain but
a few days to look over this interest
ing section of the country, before go
ing back east, where his duties call
hi:n. The remainder of the party will
spend some time here.
That Mr. Robinson was not given
a royal greeting by the local lodge
of Elks was only because his coming
was unheralded to the local bunch. .
NATIONAL STRIKE OF RAILROAD
IS IMPE
The strike of all railroad employes
.looks more probable today than it has
at any other time since negotiations
begun with the railroad companies.
All union men have received notice
from union leaders to "be ready for
important instructions, which are ex
pected to be sent out within a day
or two."
There docs not seem to be any hope
of settling tho difficulty by arbitra-
tion. The men say their demand is a
fair one, for eight hours' work and
time and a half for over time, and
there, is only one thing to do, and that
HOW TO CHANGE FROM '
ONE POT TO MOTHER;
Since there has been many voters
j inveigled into registering as a mem-
. ber of one party or another, to which,
they do not at the present time feel
. they' owe any especial allegiance,
, there is a .quick method of righting .
' their registration. .
1 County Attorney C. B. Wilson re-
ccived an opinion just recently, from
Attorney General Wiley Jones that
all the person has to do is to cancel
the former registration and re-regis-
,ter, giving the party designation
which she or he desires to register
under.
Thc original law was made for the
iTHirnose of the nartv in nower asccr-
parties registering, they would have
I list tTmf Tiv rmi11 uqa ? canAtryt
j out literature of the proper sort to
v5ews of what shouid be done to kee
them in power.
It is wonderfully concocted system
b- ...hieh DconIo mugl Ap,,art, ,
advance what y, poUt,cal partj,
.1
filiations nrp. fn nrilpr thnfc thi riorrfn-
mtic party may haye ttjB advance
,n,nrmnt!n ,) tuB ,:
........... W. WV . .., ...W ..W-
!
' It is' one of the very advance ideas
? hth ? tbhtaMII
lhc PP10 U b compelled
,,
t l0
say what they were going to do
before they knew what the party was
f" .. ..
coinir to do. '
. ,t geema hownver. there wa some
' ' ' ---
loophole left whereby a person had
. iuuuiuiu mil. wuureuy a jiereun nuu
' the right to change his intentions
j i.--- ii - . ...
some days before the primary elec-
About the only thing the last legis -
ia .l. a. -M ja 1 a t- 1
1 lsiercd as aemocrats,
t, , j. J
ramous uiaian snaxe
Dances August 25 and 26
Artist James Sw nnerton, who
keeps a pretty close tab on the doings1
of the Indians, announces that he has
receded word that the famous snake
dances will take place at Hotaville on
August 25 and at Oraibi on the 26th.
Arrangements can be made at
numerous places in Flagstaff for the,
Vpt T, ll e " e Secur,QQ the nwlzr deputy to go out and reg
of the Hubbell trading post at Oraibi, ister voters and han;, out Us politicai
11 worn is sent tnem in time, wnere
provisions can be secured, but bed -
ning snouia pe proviaea oy tnose
making the tnp
' , ... .. t . t. .. ..,...
, aoies- ign( cxi Monaay j Search hi t c b t
At Republican Club Mecngit? ' wiv
The Fiatrstaff Republican club held.
a special meeting over the city hall
last Tuesday evening, and made prep
arations for an enthusiastic greeting
of the Williams Republican club on
next Monday night.
The committee on entertainment is
making arrangements to entertain the
ladies on this evening, when refresh
ments will bo served to all.
The republican ladies have been
given an especial invitation to be
present on this evening, and none will
be slighted.
President Fronske has asked the
state committee for a good speaker
to be present at that time. Aside
from the principle speaker, all mem
bers will bo given a chance to offer
evidence why this should and will be
a republican year.
A, number of the Williams club will
meet, with the local club to exchange
views. It will be a get-to-gether
meeting where no official will be al
lowed to disturb the growing, har-
mony or attempt to do so. Be there,
NDIKG-1Y COME QUICK
Jt
is for the companies, to grant it or
they strike.
President Wilson has made
no
headway in bringing the contending
elements together,.and there seems no
middle grounds. Either, there is a
strike or the railroads agreed to, the
.demand made.
The delay of final action is put off
but for a day or two only. The' labor
.union leaders have, had instructions
from over 90 per cent of the men to
secure their demand or strike, and. it
looks at tho present time as though
they will comply with the demand or
let the strike, take place.
WHAT PEOPLE PAY FOR
AND DOJOT KNOW IT
, The people, generally speaking, do
not care whether an office-holder is
a democrat or a republican, if they
get decent treatment and service.
They hate to be bunkoed or to have
some one. think they are so simple
that they can be iunkoed by any of-
rlcial.
Recorder Cronin. advanced the the-
ory that it cost too much to appoint
other registration officers than him-
self and his deputy.
He denied the right of the republi-
cans to have any registration officer.
Again, he ,said that it made his of-
fice to0 mucn work to have registra
tions sent in by appointed registration
officers.
Later, his deputy recorder was sent
out with his political cards, and, in
cidentally registration blanks, to se
cure the registration of people, block
by block.
uuik occmcu rawer uucer unucc uic nuiu; eenaie, also aaaresscu Ule meet- . r. a. '
circumstances,.not blaming the young ing on questions pertinent to the com- Pndc P" about how " W '
lady deputy, who, is being paid by ing campaign, from a democratic. P?Ple. of Amona are pending for
the county for her work, and mind standpoint, and was well received by ducallon' but i ' does cme
you, under the direction of the coun- the membersof the club, even though down to brass kcks , , .
ty recorder. ".members report that he warmed up a rcerdlypolicy d.splayed-against.
UT I some on patters of appropriation and ' o1' . '",,"
. When, because of the extra work, the reasons that they were not se-' - Coco"0 countv compelled, to
entailed .on account of his regular . cured. . f send a part of their school fund away
deputy going out of the 'office to do , .t0 the- south bause. they have a
this work, it is necessary to hire an New Locomotives for Logging Roads Brcatcr m?h" of "" "?
EXTRA deputy in his office to do her I WaMf - . . . ,., there. It is one of toe" beautiful
rl l A nrfMhft AJ A l H MttAAW IIMjlAta iL a .
work, it does look like Mr. Cronin '
..,,. .. t.i...
:.,, , j. 1.1:.
, ht csiimatc I
. ........ . I
Ihe thine that stmrs the averace
. . . . . .
MTTinVr nnrt frwo AmAnnn imtnr '
or ,- nT,nti,.. tn tir,A tiinf Vio
T jj. " ' , mrSS of
ls paying taxes ior tne purpose or
,, ., . .. - . .... .. ,
putin g, ,,, j temporary nower
1 1 , L u J JfT'' ' JZ
1 that :, a fello haDen, rtrift lnto'
acUnty from somewhere and S
pfly eleXd Suffice, and on'
J .
ays a ccnt of tax orver has
,.- ,.,, t-j .i,i. 1.. i.
Pens to want to nana" out- His inter-
1 . n. ,t nmnm,Mi i
ests are his own-
.nw nv .. --i,,
Hk.J, M U...I.AJ.
Regardless of the fact that he may
not be on the tax of tte cmmt
Mr. Cronin desires to be on the pay
roli of the county( and the old tmera
of the county have now' and then
thougnt that a person 8houd be on
wii
An fxtra deputy in order a,low
asn;raton carda. in orrlor tn R.iv th
ad been dr en up Tgain t a nSS'' T- "T f 7 ??
. . n... . , Baldwin locomotive last week for,
county money -and hfs office work, isthe county government, if elected to,
a joke that will go down in county
history as the yery begt (bone head
,-.,.-.... -w. u.c w.uui fiii&
Roadmaster Oscar Gabriel
Praises' Flagstaff Climate
Oscar Gabriel and family were the
guests of Mr. and Mrs. August John
son a few .days the first of the week.
Mr. Gabriel was -fqrmerly road
master of this division and is now
located at Oceanside, Calif., where he
holds a similar position with the
Santa Fe. He with his family have
been visiting the past month or more
in Denver and Nebraska, His report
agrees to a nicety with other reports
as1 to weather conditions in that sec
tion of tho country and says that the'
heat wave got worse and worse every
time he moved from one place to an
other. Mr. Gabriel put in a good many
years along the line of the Santa Fe
here and is strong in his statements
that it is impossible to find a better
summer climate than can be found at
Flagstaff, though along the coast it
is not so very bad.
REPUBLICANsiGET"
TOCETHERrAT WILLIAMS
Some fifteen. members of the Flag
staff 'Republican cluti went- to Wil
liams last Monday afternoon to meet
with the members of the Williams Re
publican club. The Flagstaff mem
bers took with them ex-Governor Kib
bey, who is a candidate for the Unit
ed States senate.
It was some sloppy weather for au
tos, but the club members with caw
were willing to take a chance.
The Williams republicans met the
Flagstaff bunch with a warm welcome
and gave them a rapid-fire meeting.
Senator Kibbey gave them an .
arousing talk on existing conditions I
in tho state of Arizona, and told them 1
many things of a political nature that
had not as yet been brought out in
this campaign.
State ChairmanJUaddock was pres
ent, and advised the members of how
little a chance was actually necessary
to sweep the whole country and state,
all reports indicating without a pos-
feible doubt that Hughes would be the with the new dormitory buildings just
next president of the United States. I huilt, the school s so crowded that
There were enthusiastic talks from it is necessary to put two students
many, and there did not seem to be ' m a room.
a pesimist in the whole bunch. There is every evidence that this
The meeting lasted until late, and year's enrollment of students will out
the Flagstaff bunch left with a number lastyear by fifty or more,
promise from the Williams club' that providing they" can be taken care of
they would come up in force next wit" &e present inadequate accom
Monday night and meet with the club modations. Rooms are now being
here. hunted for by students still'coming in
who cannot be accommodated at the
GEO. OLNEY CAPTURES I Normal.
LOCAL DEMOCRATIC CLUB The most aggravating thing about
.it is, that thousands and thousands
3eonre A. Olnev. who ,'s onnosmr are spent on fads and fancies, of the
(Governor Hunt for the democratic
nomination for governor, was invited
to speak at the meeting of the demo-
cratic club last Monday evening, and
was given a warm reception by the
members at the dose of the meeting.
Senator Simms, president of the
!! .A-. -1. 91. Y ll
,'Ti, .. " T. T
tl,eir logging road which will mater-
""" "b"6 '""" ""' w" !-
'aHy add l? thcir. railroad equipment
, . . . ?.
ana maKC it nossime ior tnem to crp.t
, cnouen iocs at an times to keen the
sawmill busy.
i ""
' Thc Arizona Lumb':r & Timbcr Co-
, ,. l,.,l r:i
! haV al.S Purfhased a similar enKne
''Pectcd to arrive tho f,rst of the wcek I
but was delnvcd a few days by a Rcd Lakc; thc political Mecca
wreck along the road. They are al-' r, Lake was the Mecca for all
ready well equipped but the new ex- state and county candidates for of
tension of track and different hauls omce yesterday, and it was almost im
made it necessary for them to buy possible to find a candidate in Flag
more power to keep up with their staff during the .day.
wo'c j There was a general and a personal
: invitation given all candidates to be
Fred Garing Announces 'present, and they took advantage of-
Himself For Supervisor the opportunity to meet the people of
Among the. number of first class the west end of the county,
men who have announced their inten- ( That the people were given the
tions of making the. race for the nom- glad hand. by the candidates and in
ination on the republican ticket for quiries as to their health and their
the office oj supervisor at the coming family's good health was indulged in
primaries, appears the name of Fred to some considerable extent, is to be
Garing, proprietor of the Flagstaff presumed without straining your
Dairy, whose friends are firm in the
belief that he' would serve the peo
pie of the county without fear or fa-
vor, giving a strict account of the
moneys spent in every department of
that office. ?
Mr. Garing has. been a resident of rary night" at the Empress theater,
Coconino county for the past twelve and thc ladies have secured a real live
years. Hc first came to Arizona from Mary Pickford picture for the occa
Indiana and entered the Indian ser- sion. You know this is for the benefit
vice' at Tuba, a short time later en- of the public library fund and the Ia
tered the service of the Santa Fe, dies are much interested in having -and
later, some six years ago, started you take an interest in it. If' you
the Flagstaff Dairy, which he has don't the Woman's club may not like
built up until it is one of the big dair- it, and you can easily guess the rest,
ies of the north. Hard work and cf- They believe in selecting only the best
ficiency has been his motto in all his for these special occasions, and with
undertakings and he has been sue- the expert assistance of Manager Cos
cessful because of his pains-taking tigan, get them every time. You get
care of small details. 'the entertainment and they get the
He is a stalwart American of Ger- money to help along the library, an
man nativity, who firmly believes that institution that is growing rapidly ,
the county business and the money and Is one of tho best enterprises in
expended on any project, should be ( which the ladies are interested. It is
returned to the county dollar for dol- a benefit to every member of the com
lar. 'munity. So .don't forget Mary Pick-.
Mr. Garing has had years of ex- ford at the Empress next Tuesday
perience in road work, and is well night. ' "
fitted to handle his share of this kind ,
of wofk in an intelligent manner, and 1 Looking for Winner of Auto
road work seems to be one of the im-i The Elks' committee at Winslow
portant features of county business , who had charge of affairs duringthe
with which supervisors must contend, j Follies week, is looking for the "per-; '
He is a large taxpayer and conse-
quently is directly interested in se-, to turn the automobile over to him.
curing the best possible results from They will hold it until August 27,
.... . 1 . ',!.... ." . ? ; : if
every cent 01 county. money expended, men commence over again.
NEXT GOVERNOR INJURED '
AT REDJAKE BARBECUE
Tom Campbell, the republican can
didate for governor, was badly injur
ed by the fall of a horse at the Red
Lake barbecue yesterday.
He was riding a fractious horse
when some cowpuncher jumped up be
hind him on the horse. TJie horse
fell over sideways with Campbell who
was unable, to protect himself. ' -
He was hurried to Williams for
treatment by Dr. Rounsville. The ex
tent of his injuries were unknown,
but it was thought a couple of ribs
were broken, with possible internal-
injuries.
BIG NORMAL SCHOOL IS
CROWDED TO UTMOST'
Dr. Blome, president of the big,
growing normal school, advises that
present state administration-for pre-
vcnt,nS a bloodthirsty murderer irom
beinS hun' and the like' y when lfc
comes to dire necefs,ty, ,n he y
P"Per equipment for the educationof
e ?Z PPle of the sta.' ey
w""' cai vu ur KU "" a"
education, xnere is u niva, uciuvx
'8cho1 laW'
menu
.things in tne woriangs 01 mo present
When it comes to giving the North-
ern Arizona Normal school the neces-
ern Arizona Mormai scnooi me neces-
sary funds to keep up with its naturaP
... -n, v.n .lommto
pivsiv-oo, m- ouw., . .w..v.,
v. n.i.:..:e-t:nn !n Arnnn
be-
"v uiiniioi.rti.iw, ... ...,
neve that the money snouia oe spens
on the.schools in the south. Right and
. .... ,
lieve that the money should be spent
wrong is decided upon north and
'prcsumer."
It was a great day, and
'a good-
time was had by all."
Pick a Picitford Picture
It Particularly Pleases -
Next Tuesday night will be "Lib-
son who held number 10197, in order
i'lW
t
sj
4k,v ' &JfcVv;"
JmW$'':-
f.t
to.
..i.j
.,.--tor w
- ""'j5v:
