VOLUME XXVIII
PEACEFUL ENDING
OF USEFUL LIFE
Surrounded by toyed Ones, Mrs. K.
»'* i: Allen Sinks Into the Long
and Dreamless Sleep
All Pullman grieves over the news
that Mrs. King P. Allen passed away
at the home of her daughter, Mrs.
Thos. Neill, In Colfax, late yesterday
afternoon.
, For several months her health had i
been falling and during the past week i
she had sustained frequent attacks of
heart failure, which defied medical
skill and gave sure warning of the
near approach of the grim reaper.
Everything that love could suggest j
was done to prevent the spark of life |
from flickering out and when the end
came it was without pain.
! Funeral services will be held at I
the home of Judge Neill in Colfax j
at2:oo o'clock tomorrow (Saturday)
afternoon, and the remains brought
to Pullman, where a short service
will be held at Kimball's undertaking
parlors at 4:30 p. m. Interment will
be in the south side cemetery.
Deceased, whose maiden name was
Susie Gerow, was born at Honeoye
.Falls. N. V., May 10, 1841. While
still a little girl she moved with her
parents to Michigan, where, on Oc
tober 20, 1864, she was united in
marriage to King P. Allen, who had
served for three years in Company
I, Second Michigan infantry, In the
' struggle for the preservation of the
Union. In 1886 they moved to Daw
son, N. D., and three years later (fame i
to Whelan, where Mr. Allen conduct
ed a blacksmith shop and acted as !
post master, until he moved to Pull- I
man in 1890. Eight children were
born to their union: Ada M., now
Mrs. Thomas Neill of Colfax, Dora
V., now Mrs. J. C. Taylor of Steele,
N. D.; 11 ford, now of Grants Pass,
Ore.; Ira U., now of Spokane; Carrie,
who died after becoming the wife of
H. F. Blanchard; Allele C, now Mrs.
H. L. Oliver of lloquiam; Lulu Faye,
now Mrs. It. M. VanDorn of Aber
deen, and Karl P., now' city editor of
| The Herald. Mr. and Mrs. Allen also
had 15 grandchildren and three
great-grandchildren. They celebrat
ed their golden wedding at Aberdeen
two years ago.
Deceased was a woman of strong
character, winning personality and
active mentality, and while deeply de
voted to her husband and children,
still found time to read extensively
and to take a lively interest in every
thing which tended to improve the
community. She was a valued work
er in the Historical club, and when
she retired was still carried on the
 role, as an honorary member. In the
i. varied activities of the Woman's Re-
r.Jief Corps she always took a leading
gJ>Mt. , Her quiet efficiency, gentle
and unobtrusive but tender
[Patience and unobtrusive but tender
sympathy made her a veritable angel
Eof mercy in the homes of friends or
strangers alike, which had been in
vaded by trouble, sickness or death.
Her life was a benediction. Her
memory will be an inspiration. She
was an ideal wife, mother, friend
and neighbor.
A member of the Congregational
church, her Christianity was of the
type which truly measured up to the
■ standard laid down by the Savior:
"For I was a hungered, and ye
gave me meat; 1 was thirsty, and
ye gave me drink; I was a stranger
an<l ye took me in; naked, and ye
clothed me; I was sick, and ye vis
ited me."
A» the burden of years and poor
health curtailed her activities, she
•till retained her cheerfulness and
Interest in the affaire of her family
*nd friends. Her patience, thought
'nlness and kindly wisdom made her
old age beautiful and even when the
end approached and she lapsed into j
her only sorrow j
*a» that she must be separated from ;
her loved ones for a little while.
*•■ F. Games, cerealist, and Emory
Alvord, instructor in farm crops at
h« State College, start today for a
*° weeks vacation in the mountains
°* Skamania county. On the way
»ey will visit the college sub-sta
"on» at Ritzville and Lind and then
*° to Pasco and take a boat down
_c Colifmbia to White Salmon, from n|rlnf Holland mrehwl a «*'»
-*hey\lo,n^ they will tramp inland. K m». this fii<)l . ninK that Regent I>. S.
»ey expect to climb Mt. Adams, Mt. *'*" • ■ -£*■ ..... ,_ an
* Helens and Mt. Hauler and will Troy of Cimacum «as killed in an
"Wr* by way of Seattle. automobile accident last night.
The Pullman Herald
evoted to the best intcre»ts of Pullman and the best farming community in the Northwest surrounding it.
two NEW TEACHERS
»<»i; HIGH SCHOOL
Mis; Gertrude .Mallette has been
secured for "' position of commer
"''' teacher in the Pullman high
school. .Miss Mallette is a graduate
1,1 the Lewis and Clark high school.
Spokane, a graduate of the Univer
sity of Washington, a business col
lege graduate, and a teacher of suc
cessful experience in the commercial
Uepartmen: "! the high school at .1 i
'"''"'• Alaska. She has had practical
experience as court reporter and will
doubtless carry forward the good
work done during the past yea- by
H. i). Eades. The commercial de
partment was established last year
end has proved to be very popular.
A thorough business training is pi •>
--vided in connection with a regular
four-yea-, college preparatory course.
The Gregg system of shorthand is
|.n tight.
Superintendent J. W. Graham of
the city schools announces that be
lias secured the services of an excell
ent manual training teacher for the
Pullman high school. .Mr. M. B. Hev
ly of Everett will take charge of this
Important department, and offer as
heretofore work in grades seven,
eight, nine and ten. Mr. Hevly has
had successful experience and the
very best of training for this work.
He will stress, in addition to the
making of new furniture, the repair
of furniture. His desire is that the
course he otters may actually touch
closely the home of his pupils. Prin
cipal Roberts of the Everett high
school gives Mr. Hevly the very high
est of endorsement, both as to char
acter and skill in his chosen line.
GRABS HIS MAN
THEN LOSES HIM
i; C. Dunned i Wanted on Larceny
Charge, Eludes Marshal Hooper
and Makes Escape—Alleged
to Have stolen Prom
Employer
Manipulating successfully a time
worn but clever ruse, R. C. Dunnell,
wanted on a charge of larceny, es
caped the minions of the law Tuesday
and hied himself to parts unknown.
Dunnell had been taken in charge by
Marshal Hooper in connection with a
case in which larceny was charged.
Stating his desire to mail a letter,
the man was permitted to go to the
post office and so far as known is
still going, while the sheriff's force
is making every effort to locate him.
Dunnell. a youth of 19 years, has
been employed on various farms near
Pullman for the past year, and for
some time had been working for
Worley Hatley. Last Thursday he
drove to Pullman with bis employer,
but soon came up missing, later ap
pearing and going back with Mr.
Hatley. It was soon discovered that
numerous articles of jewelery were
missing from the Hatley home and
Dunnell himself showed unusual con
cern in apprehending the culprit.
Tuesday of this week Dunnell
packed his trunk and left the Hatley
home, coming to Pullman and intend
ing to take the train. Believing that
the man might have been implicated
in the theft, Mr. Hatley bad a search
warrant issued and as soon as he
arrived in Pullman Dunnell was
taken in charge by Marshal Hooper
and searched. Several of the missing
articles were found on his person and
others in his trunk, the only article
which was not found in his posses
sion being a ring valued at $17.
Soon after he was searched Bun
nell made his escape and has not yet
been located, although the sheriff's
Office has taken the matter in charge
and is tiling a photograph found in
the trunk to aid them in locating the
man.
The warrant tor Dunnell * arrest
charges the theft of a gold watch,
bracelet, lavallier and chain, locket
and chain, cuff buttons, ear rings,
finger rings, etc., valued at over $50
and the property of Worley Hatley
and his wife.
REGENT TROY KILLER
IX AUTOMOBILE ACCIBENT
PULLMAN. WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18. 1916
OXK-HALF OK VOTERS SOT !..:c;is.
With only 11 days remaining iv which to register for the primary
election of September 18 less than one-halt' ... Pullman's voters have
qualified bj registration <<> take part in the primary, regardless of
■he fact that the county judgeship as well as numerous candidacies
will tie finally decided at the primary election. Up to Wednesday
night Pullman's registration was tilt), while at Colfax the too mark
had been passed. Pullman claims to he the biggest town in the
county, Let's make the registration figures and the vote polled at
the primary prove this contention.
Official registration figures compiled by City Clerk Gannon on
Wednesday night were as follows, by precincts:
Precinct 78— I'M.
Precinct 64 200.
Precinct 51 — 147.
Precinct li — 152.
A digest of the figures indicates that the ladies are taking a
greater interest in the primary election than are the men, a big
majority of those who registered during the past lew weeks being
of the gentler sex.
08. HAYS PUSSES PEACEFULLY AWAY
Beloved Pastor and Useful Citizen
Passes Peacefully Away After
Long Illness
Dr. XV. tl. M. Hays, pioneer pastor
of the United Presbyterian church
and deeply beloved citizen of Pull
man, passed peacefully away at
12:00 o'clock Wednesday night, at
his home, 300 Ash street. He bad
been in poor health since the spring
of 1914, when he suffered a nervous
breakdown as the result of it years
of close application and unremitting
devotion to duty. On December 8,
191 be went to California, hoping
thai the change of scene and climate
would benefit his health. His so
journ in that land of sunshine re
sulted in a decided improvement in
his condition, but failed to restore
bis wonted strength and vigor.
About a month ago he suffered a re
lapse and was taken to Spokane tor
medical advice and treatment, but
nothing could be done to help him
and be was brought back lo his home
in Pullman, where, surrounded by
his loved ones, he gradually grew
weaker until called by the Master
whom be had served so long and
faithfully.
Funeral services will be held at
the United Presbyterian church next
Sunday, August 20, at 2:00 o'clock
p. m. Rev, M. E. Dunn of Spokane,
synodical superintendent of mis
sions, who preached the sermon
when Dr. Hays was installed as pas
tor of the church here on April 5,
1904, will officiate.
Dr. Hays was a remarkable man
and has performed a notable work.
r-t" f 4*7^*^**^^c^ i,Oßl__Bß_B_H_HH--W----liH
'■ ' "'V- " ' - " ■'- *$> '■'- "' ' '-'''■.' - --'"'*i ' "'' '" '■ •.''■ ■*-.■ '' ■ '■■'^'"' ■■" i l'S
A * * fiVtsH^- ■ v
__■__-_. ■ -"-
m RPB *^* Mm
m 1
A—\
'£^4 )'■ 1 Vi'""":vl*:-.'"':;^^^B;.,*t^F •"•"* '■*''—.^ V ' Vf i *'■'■:'*■■■ "^ J
fu^ : V' 7 ' Bi'^'' W-ffi* "V &m\\\\ '•: ''•' -*'• "■--'■ ,v >3
The Rev. Dr. XV. Q. M. Hays
A forceful preacher, lie was at the
same time a fine organizer and an
indefatigable worker in the homes
of his congregation, He was born
September 20, 1853, near Aledo, 111.,
being the fifth child and third son of
Win. McCreight and Elizabeth Elli
ott Hays. His boyhood days were
spent on a farm near what was then
known as Sunbeam, where he attend
ed the public school. He professed
j his faith and became a member of
the United Presbyterian church at
'the early age of 11 years. When he
i was IS years old he entered the pre
paratory department of Monmouth
college, from which he graduated In
1878 with the degree of Bachelor of
Arts. The following autumn he en
tered the Princeton Theological Sem
inary as a first year student. His
second and third years of prepara
tion for the ministry were spent in
the United Presbyterian Theological
[ Seminary of Xenla, Ohio, from which
(institution he graduated March 24,
i 1881, with the degree of Bachelor of
Divinity. About the same time the
degree of blaster of Arts was con
ferred upon him by Monmouth col
lege. While he was securing his col
lege education Ik; spent about three
years in teaching. As a college stu
dent he developed considerable abil
ity as a writer of poetry and many
of his verses were published in the
college paper and the newspapers of
Aledo, 111.
August 12, 1875, he was united in
marriage to Marcla Acheson. From
this union seven children were born:
John William; Ann*. Kindly; now
Mrs. L. L. Tot ten; Carl Acheson;
Jessie Elliott; Grace, now Mrs.
N. J. Aiken: William Gordon Mc-
Creight, and Crelghton Elliott. Of
these seven, John William and Will
iam Cordon McCrelght died in early
childhood. All of the other five will
be present at the funeral.
Shortly alter his gradual ion from
the Theological Seminary, he re
ceived a call to the pastorate of the
United Presbyterian church or El
vera, lowa, where he was ordained
and installed in June, 1881. Five
years later, iv January, 1886, he was
offered an appointment )at Waits
burg In the then territory of Wash
ington, by the hoard of home mis
sions. Filled with zeal and deeply
impressed by the urgent need for re
ligious workers in the far west, he
promptly accepted the call. That he
never regretted his decision Is indi
catd by the following quotation from
a letter which he wrote to a friend
not very long ago: "Were I to live
my life over again, 1 think 1 would
choose the career of a home mission
ary, especially if I were permitted to
labor in this great field of unpar
alelled opportunity- the Pacific
Northwest."
Upon taking up the work in his
new frontier field, he became con
vinced that there was an urgent need
for better educational opportunities
than were then afforded by the pub
lic schools. To meet this need he
undertook the arduous labor of es
tablishing an academy at Waitsburg,
which opened its doors September 12,
1886, and for 20 years took high
rank among the educational institu
tions of the state, until the develop
ment and improvement of the high
schools made it possible for them to
cover the field of work for which the
academy was founded. When that
time came the campus and buildings
were sold to the city of Waitsburg
for high school purposes. The 10.
--000 received for the property was ap
propriated by the General Assembly
in May, 1912, towards the construc
tion of the beautiful new church in
this city.
After nine years of faithful and
successful work in Waitsburg, Dr.
Hays accepted a call to Olympia,
where he remained for three and a
half years, during which time he in
spired his congregation to build a
new church. He then responded to
an Invitation from the Spokane Pres
bytery to organize the work in Pull
man and arrived in this field Sep
tember 1, 1898. At that time there
were but three resident members of
the United Presbyterian church in
this city, but so great was his zeal
and so effective his work, that in
March. 1904. he had built a church
and gathered a congregation with a
membership of 160, who felt able to
support a pastor and issued a formal
tall to him to serve them in that
capacity. He was formally install"!
April 5, 1904, and continued "to do
(Continued on last page)
FLOYD SMITH PHOMOTED
Floyd Smith, tor the ..ast year
and a half local agent for lie M. 11.
iiouser Grain company, this week
received a well earned promotion
when ho was advanced to the Spo
kane office of the company at a sub
stantial increase in salary. Mr. Smith
has proved a valuable man for his
company and his business integrity
and close attention to duty ttully
merit the endorsement of his good
work which his employers have seen
fit to offer. Mr. Smith will leave
Monday lor Spokane to enter upon
the duties connected with his new
position. Ho will be succeeded in
the local office by Clifford Kyle of
Colton, who has had considerable ex
perience in grain buying and who
comes highly recommended as a busi
ness man and a desirable citizen.
RETIRES FROM RANK
At a meeting of the directors of
the Pullman State bank Tuesday
evening, EC. Maguire tendered his res
ignation as cashier of the Institution.
J. _*. Scott was elected cashier and
John Metzgor was elected to the posi
tion of vice president, formerly held
by Mr. Scott. During the four years
and a half that Mr. Maguire has
served as cashier the business has en
joyed a steady growth, the deposits
increasing from $255,000 to $450.
--000. Mr. Maguire says that he has
no plans for the Immediate future
and that he proposes to take a vaca
tion before formulating any.
HOLLAND TALKS
TO BUSINESS MEN
Asks Them to Co-operate in Securing
Accommodations tor the College
Students
The announcement that President
Holland of the State College would
speak at the Chamber of Commerce
luncheon Tuesday brought, out a
large attendance. The routine busi
ness was hurried through in short
order. President Holland said that
he, wished to briefly discuss two mat
ters, first the proposed banker
farmer excursion to Pullman and,
second, accommodations for college
students. He read a letter from E.
E. Flood of Spokane, who originated
the idea of organizing an excursion of
bankers from all parts of the state
to visit the State College, each bank
er to bring with him four or five
farmers. It was at first planned to
have the excursionists come to Pull-
man in September, shortly after the
opening of college, but as it would
be impossible to pull of a football
game, which is to be one of the at
tractions, so early in the season the
date has been changed to the early
part of October. President Holland
asked the co-operation of the busi
ness men in entertaining the visitors,
who will probably arrive In the morn
ing and leave the next afternoon.
In regard to accommodations for
students, the speaker stated that
there is every prospect of an In
creased number of students this fall
and that a rumor has gotten out over
the state that it will be difficult for
them to secure rooms in Pullman.
He pointed out the benefits to the
town and college resulting from a
large student body and urged all the
people of the city to co-operate In
finding suitable accommodations for
students. He emphasized the im
portance of keeping down the price
for board and rooms to a reasonable
figure, because such a large per cent
of the students are working their
way through college and have to
economize in every way possible.
His address precipitated a lively
discussion. Prof. Kreager stated
that in his opinion, rents and rates
for board and rooms were higher in
Pullman than they should be ln a
college town. Several present took
Issue with him and finally on motion
of R. C. McCroskey, the whole ques
tion was referred to a committee of
three for investigation. F. T. Hai
nard, It. C. Holt and Wm. Goodyear
were appointed to act on this com
rnittoe.
Mrs. Geo. N. Osborn of Black Lake,
Idaho, has been visiting the family of
C. R. Sanders.
, -
NUMBER 44
NORTH STATE STREET
CONTRACT AWARDED
Washington Paving Co. Will Pave
light Blocks for $11,740.50—
Figures Tally With Prelimin
ary .'Miniate
The Washington Paving Company
was Tuesday evening awarded the
contract for paving the eight blocks
included in Local Improvement Dis
trict No 29, which extends north
from the 0.-W It. & N. tracks, along
State street to the city limits, over
Military hill. The contract price is
$14,749.50, the figures being exact
ly the same as those prepared as a
preliminary estimate by City Engin
eer Myers. To this total, however,
must he added approximately 10 per
cent for engineering and incidentals,
bringing the total cost to the prop
erty owners to $16,224.45.
Only the one bid was submitted for
consideration, and this was accept
ed upon the unanimous vote of the
city fathers. Bids had been called
for the previous meeting, but none
submitted and the second call was
made. There appeared to be a some
what general apathy for the contract
on the part of road builders, many
feeling that the value of the abutting
property did not warrant the Im
provement and believing that a con
siderable amount of the property
might have to be taken by the con
tractors ln payment for their work.
The mayor and city clerk were
ordered to enter Into contract with
the Washington Paving company, and
it is expected that work on the much
needed improvement will begin very
shortly. The completion of this dis
trict will provide a continuous stretch
of hard surface pavement on State
street from the north limits nearly
to the south limits, with the single
exception of the one block from Ol
son street north to the 0.-W. R. & N.
tracks, and it is probable that steps
to improve this will be taken soon.
The bid of the successful company
in detail was as follows:
Bituminous macadam, 6400
square yards at 95c...$ 6.080.00
Vitrified brick pavement,
420 sci. yds, at $2.75.. 1.155.00
Earth excavation, 2730 cv.
yds. at 50c 1,365.00
Rock excavation, 1060 cv.
yds. at $2.75 2,915.00
Concrete curb and gutter,
5470 lineal feet 2,735.00
Catch basins, eight at $20 160.00
Eight-Inch 'vitrified sewer
pipe in place, 370 lineal
feet at 55c 203.50
Concrete header, 6xlß in.,
290 lineal feet at 40c. . 116.00
Inlets in place, two at $10 20.00
Total contract price. . . .$14,749.50
• ■ —mm ■■■ ■■ ™—i ————
JOHN MeLEAN VISITS PULLMAN
John McLean drove down from
Oakesdale in his big auto last Satur
day with his wife, son and daughter.
The principal object of his visit was
to make arrangements for his son to
enroll In the agricultural department
of the State College. The young man
had been attending the University of
Oregon, but has decided to change to
W. S. C. He is a crack baseball
player and a member of the Sigma
Nu fraternity. Miss McLean Is ah-o
considering enrolling in the depart
ment of music.
While here Mr. McLean, who will
be the democratic candidate for
county sheriff, did a little campaign
ing and was given a very cordial de
ception, particularly by the old
timers, who remember what an ef
ficient and popular officer he was
when he served two terms as sheriff
from 1888 to 1893. Ever since he
retired to private life he has fre
quently been urged to become a can
didate for public office, but has
steadfastly refused, and devoted hi*
entire attention to farming with such
success that he now owns 480 acres
of as fine land as can be found in
the county. This year his friends
imply Insisted that he enter the
race for sheriff and brought so much
pressure to bear on him that he fin
ally consented. It Is generally con
ceded that his popularity, wide ac
quaintance, splendid reputation and
ability as a campaigner make him a
formidable candidate, with excellent
prospects of being high man when
the votes are counted In November
