11 p Hip epwt-. \V)V/drvl wrttt -r-rCcyjgjtif&x, rn
TWELFTH YEAR. No. 9,
DEATH 01 WM. H. McDANIEL.
William H. McDaniel, an old and
prominent resident of the north part
of the county, died at St, Luke's hos
pital. Spokane, Thursday, August 10,
1916, where he had been taken some
two weeks before tor medical treatment.
His ■ ot. 1 wife was at the bedside
mine .mg to his comfort to the end.
The regains arrived in Orovllle last
Thursday evening, where they were
met by a large delegation of neighbors
and friends and conveyed the same
evening to the home of the deceased
near Loomis. The funeral took place
Sunday afternoon from the old Engle
hall, at Loomis, and there was a great
outpouring of people from all the sur
rounding country to pay the last mark
of respect to a man who stood high in
the confidence, esteem and affection
of tile entire population. The casket
was covered and the stage banked with
a profusion of beautiful flowers, the
offerings of loving friends. The ser
vices were conducted by Rev. Gysler,
of the Methodist church, who pro
nounced a touching eulogy upon the
’ life and character of the deceased. A
most excellent choir sang several
hymns exquisitely. The pali bearers
were members of the Woodmen of the
World, an order in which the deceased
had been an active member for many
years. The dead man’s favorite horse
followed the coffin and a long proces
sion of vehicles moved to Mountain
View cemetery, where the last sad rites
were performed. Few there were pres
ent who did not drop a silent tear as
the casket was lowered into the grave.
The news of the death of Mr. Mc-
Daniel was a severe shock to his mul
titude of friends in Loomis, Oroville
and the surrounding country. It was
generally known that he had been in
poor health for two or three years, but
no one had any idea that his condition
was in any way alarming. When he
left here for Spokane, about July 28,
his condition was serious, but it was
hoped by those who knew him that un
der a thorough course of treatment he
would recover and he spared for many
years.
In the 'death of Win. H. McDaniel,
among his associates more familiarly
known as “Billy,” passed away another
of those western trail blazers so fre
quently mentioned as pioneers, a class
that is rapidly disappearing with the
passage of years. He possessed all of
those sterling characteristics that seem
to he the common attribute of the old
timer, a genial and generous disposi
tion, kindly openhandedness to those in
distress, spontaneous and insistant
hospitality. No man would go further
out of his way to accomodate or do a
favor for a friend or neighbor, or more
promptly contribute towards the aid
and assistance of one in need. In
his daily relations with his
fellowmen, lie was always kinnd,
considerate and cheerful. With him it
was “charity toward all: malice toward
none.” No one ever heard Billy Mc-
Daniel speak unkindly of others
and instead of hasty condemnation he
was always prone to find excuses for
the shortcomings of those who went
estray. Having rode the range for
years, lived much of his life near na
ture, free of the hypocracies of so
called society, possessing the nerve of
men who have looked danger in the
face and overcome all kinds of hard
ships without flinching, doing unto
others as he would have others do
unto him, leaving behind not a single
enemy and a multitude of friends, one
can say of him in the words of the im
mortal bard,
"Ills lift l was gentle: and the elements
Sii mix’d in him, that Nature might stand
up,
And say tn all the world. 'This Is a man." ”
William H. McDaniel has resided
tor many years on his homestead in
the charming Sinlabekin valley, about
a mile north of l.oomls. He is one of
the oldest and best known stockmen
in Okanogan county. He was born In
Sherbrook, Nova Scotia, November 8,
1856, and hence was aged 59 years. 9
month and 2 days. He was the son of
John and Mary (Bent) McDaniel, na-
tives of Nova Scotia. The father was
a sea captain, and followed a sea far
ing life all his days. William H., was
the fifth of a family of nine children.
He remained in the town of his birth
until the spring of 1871. in the spring
of that year, when hardly 15 years of
age, he went to Wisconsin, and from
thence to the Red River of the North,
returning to Wisconsin, where he re
mained for four years. In 1875 he turn
ed his face toward the west in search
of fortune, first going to San Fran
cisco and then to Portland. He did not
find employment at Portland and re
turned to San Francisco, where he se
cured a position with a steret car
company that was then operating cars
by horse power. The fever of adven
ture and the desire to try Ills luck at
mining induced him to go south in
1880, and he spent a couple of years
in Arizona, New Mexico and old Mex
ico prospecting and meeting with In
different success. He then turned his
attention to the north, intending to go
to Alaska. Changing his mind at Vic
toria lie went to the coal fields near
Seattle. In the winter of 1882-li lie
made a trip to the north fork of the
Coeur d’Alene river, a trip that in
volved much hardship In those days.
In May, 188:1 Mr. McDaniel civme to
■Okanogan county, at that time boast
ling of but few white settlers. Henry
(Wellington, a Massachusetts man and
a Harvard graduate, was engaged in
raising stock and occupied what is
now known as the old Wellington place
on the Okanogan river, a few miles
south of Oroville, and which Mr. Well
ington willed to Mr. McDaniel at the
time of his death. With Mr. Wellington
Mr. McDaniel secured employment in
the capacity of a cow hoy. Mr. McDan
iel also carried on freighting for
some nine years, going to Sprague
and Spokane, the nearest points on
the railroad, for suplies. Soon Mr.
McDaniel had a start of his own, hav
ing settled on the present home place
in 1884, and between farming, freight
ing and stock raising accumulated a
comfortable competency.
On January 30, 1896, Mr. McDaniel
was united in marriage with Miss
Harriet R„ Daughter of 0. H. artd
Emily .1. Baldwin. Two children were
the fruit of this marriage, Grace, aged
IT years and Lloyd, aged 14. Mr. Mc-
Daniel was a most devoted husband
and affectionate father, a man whose
life was worthy of emulation, and his
death is a bitter trial to his family and
immediate relatives. He leaves a wife
a daughter and son, and an aged falh
er.-and mother-in-law.
FILINGS FOB OFFH’K.
Through the kindness of the Oka
nogan Independent we are able to pub
lish a full list of filings for office in
(his county:
Commissioner First District —Hugh
Miller and C. W. Smith republicans;
F R. Hershberger, democrat.
Commissioner of Second District —
Wm. Anderson and Virgil Dunbar, re
publicans.
Joint Senator—W. A. Bollinger and
M. B. Howe, republicans; .1, W. Faulk
ner, democrat.
Representative—R, L. Picken and R.
W. Hunner, republicans.
Sheriff—Ted Maloney and Clair
Ward, republicans; A. W. Hogadone
and Evan Jones, democrats.
Auditor—Geo. E. Hannah, E. C.
Quackenbush and .1. D. Hubbard, re
publicans.
Treasurer —M. J. Flynn, republican;
F. W. Plessinger, democrat.
Assessor —C. H. Knosher, republican.
Prosecuting Attorney—Chas. A.
Johnson, republican.
Engineer—Horace E. Smith, repub
lican: W. J. Hoskyn, democrat.
Clerk—Mary E. McClure and F. R.
Atkins, republicans.
School Superintendent—W. A. Thom
as, republican; Georgian Donald, dem
ot rat.
Coroner—Victor C. Gove and Ed.
Varwood, republicans.
Socialist Ticket —J. L. Freeman, rep
resentative.
Non-partisan Judiciary Ticket, for
Superior Judge—E. K. Pendergast and
C. H, Neal.
AXM AL MEETING.
The board o( trustees of the Oka
nogan County Better Roads Associa
tion are hereby called to meet in an
nual session at Okanogan, Washington
September 5, 1916 at the hour of ten
o’clock a. m. sharp.
Every good roads club or association
having ten or more members (paid up)
in the county association is entitled to
one member on the board of trustees
of the county association. This is an
important meeting and there will be
a good program, Let every good roads
club be represented. By order of the
executive committee.
H. J. KERR. President.
E. HISTE, Secretary.
W. A. BOLINGER,
H. H. GRANGER,
GEO. J. HURLEY.
CLEVER LOOMIS BOY.
Karl Kepp of Loomis, Wash., after
investigation and reference to a num
ber of books on the subject has written
an interesting class room review on
the subject of "Magnetism” which he
prepared just before leaving Pullman
in .(une after having attended the ele
mentary science department during
the year at the state college of Wash
ington. We might quote a few Inter
esting things from Mr. Kepp’s theme:
“Tlte first natural magnets wore dis
covered by tlie ancients at Magnesia
in Asia Minor. Magnets are a kind of
iron ore which Is found in various
parts of tlie world. Magnitlsm figures
in numerous old legends and myths
which tell of cliffs near the sea, which
pull the nails from ships sailing too
near, thereby drowning all on board.
About the eleventh century It was dis
covered that If a piece of magnet was
suspended by a pivot, it would point
north and south. Tlie sailors took ad
vantage of tliis property and made the
stone into a compass. If a bar magnet
is dropped into iron filings, the tiny
particles of Iron will cling in tuffs to
tlie ends of tlie poles of the bar. This
shows that the location of the attract
ing force in magnets 1s at the poles.”
Mr. Kepp goes on to tell how sci
entists discovered that tlie earth had
two magnetic poles.
A STROM! COMPANY.
•The United Producing Company, a
theatrical organization, that presented
“Charley’s Aunt” at the Orpheum
Monday evening did not draw the pat
ronage that the merits of the company
deserved. There were two reasons for
tliis failure to draw a crowd. Unfor
tunately the train upon which the com
pany arrived in town was an hour late
not ariving until almost 9 o'clock, thus
creating the impression that the per
formance would not take place, which
was a serious handicap. The company
had to fly directly from the train to
the opera house, not having time even,
to put up the scenery carried. In the
second place “Charley’s Aunt" had
been presented here only a short time.
before, and few cared to see the same
play twice. The company was by far
the strongest from a dramatic point of
view that has ever visited Orovllle.
The manager was not discouraged by
the cold reception, taking into consid
eration the difficulties he had to con
tend against, and announced that he
would return again later in the s»s
This paper feels safe in promts’ <g r
more generous patronage for t’.e
pany when it again visits Oro 1- - c i
is a kind of professional tronp*- ‘he* ,s
deserving of liberal patronage in order
to induce repeated visits.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of Oroville, Washing
ton, August 14, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Council
men Beale, Friis & Smith. Minutes of
the previous meeting read and approv
ed as read. The matter of better street
lighting was discussed and the clerk
was Instructed to write the Okanogan
Valley Power Co., asking |hem to
meet with the council.
The matter of laying an extension
of water mains to the new hospital site
was taken up and the clerk was in
structed to order the necessary pipe
and fittings and lay them as soon as
possible.
On motion the council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
( AKI» OF THANKS.
The undersigned desire to take this
means of expressing their thanks to
friends In Spokane, Oroville and Loo
mis for their kindness and sympathy,
and for the aid and assistance extended
at the time of their recent and great
bereavement.
MRS. W. H. MCDONALD
AND FAMILY.
The announcement of C. W. Smith
as a candidate for commissioner in the
First district appears in another col
umn. Mr. Smith did not seek this of
fice. He consented to stand only after
hundreds of interested citizens of the
north part of the county urged him to
do so. It chosen, he has no friends to
reward nor enemies to punish. AH he
wants to see is that the business of the
county is conducted on a strictly busi
ness basis. No sectional feeling will in
fluence liis actions. He stands tor strict
fairness between man and man, and
when he gives his word he can be de
pended on to carry out his promises.
He would show no favoriteism, and ev
ery nook and corner of his district
would have exactly the same show in
matters pertaining to the expenditure
of county monies. His motto is econo
my, and justice to all.
Ed. Davis is putting up a brick resi
dence in the south part of town which
will not only be an attractive and very
confortable home when finished, but
will add materially to the appearance
of that portion of the town.
OROVILLE, WABHIN ITON, AUGUST 17. 1916
Few people believe In the provisions
of the state primary election law that
requires every voter to express a sec
ond; as well as a first choice "in all
cases where there are four or more can
didates of any political party for one
slate or politici I position,” yet In too
piestionable wisdom of the framers of
t'i-‘ law a second choice, under tiie con
ditions mentioned is mandltory. The
pemlty for failing to follow »lie re
quirements of the law nullifies your
vote for the particular office where
second choice votes are required. A
man or woman who Is really Inter
ested In the candidacy for office of any
single individual entertains no second
preference. He or she Is for that one
perSqn, and it Is a hardship to make a
second choice, feeling that to do so the
voter Is Jeopardising the chances of
his favorite to secure the nomination.
Furthermore, It Is the natural Instinct
in a case of this kind to throw the sec
ond choice to the man supposed to be
the weakest candidate. That candidate
may also be Ihe least deserving and
least qualified for the office and yet
under the provision of this freak means
of making a selection he may secure
the nomination. The law Is the law,
no matter what we may think about It,
and every voter must hear in mind,
when entering the booth at the polls
on the 12th of September that It Is ab
solutely necessary to cast a second
choice vote where such vote is desig
nated on tlie ballot. The following Is
the section of the primary law bearing
upon the subject, and the law Is so ex
plicit that nil can understand It:
“Section 18. (Sec. 4822, Rem.—Bal.)
In all cases where there are four or
more candidates of any political party
for one state or congressional position,
every elector voting at a primary elec
tion held under the terms of this act
shall be required to designate one first
choice and one second choice for such
position. No votei 1 shall vote for the
same person for first choice and second
choice, and no voter shall, where there
are four or more candidates for such
.■.ominatlrtu, vote for one person only,
either as first or second choice, and no
ballot so voted for one person only, for
either first or second choice, or for the
same person for both first and second
choice, shall be considered a complete
ballot, but any ballot under said condi
tions, railing to show both first and
second choice of different persons,
xhall not be considered or counted *or
'•at office.”
Tuesday evening a new odd Felloe
lodge was instituted at Molson with the
usual ceremonies. A large delegation of
Oroville Odd Fellows drove up and as
sisted in starting the new lodge right.
Grand Master H. D. Merritt, of Spokane
was present on the occasion. There
were ten new members initiated. The
new lodge started out with a good
membership and promises to become
one of the leading lodges of the order
in the county. The visitors were very
handsomely treated by the Molson Odd
Fellows, the Oroville contingent arriv
ing home Wednesday pretty well tired
out, as it required an all night session
to initiate the new members and get
the lodge properly instituted. The
following Odd Fellows from Oroville
were present; J. W. Carrel, E. A. Mc-
Mahan, R. P. Hoskyn, Jas. Frasier,
Harry Bowerman, B. R. Hoose, Jas.
Jackson, L. H, Hendrix, L. E. Phillips,
W. L. Bissell, Geo. Engel, J. P. Sam
son, H. E. Warren, Will Wentworth,
Walter Klelnschy, J. Friis, J. M. T.
Williams. R. M. Wills, Ed. Kloppen
burg, C. Schlasberger, Ernest Rlste,
J. M. Adams.
A large portion of the population
put in last Sunday very pleasantly at
Smith’s Point, on Osoyoos lake at
tending the picnic given under the
auspices of the firemen and band.
Autos and motor boats were moving
to and from the grounds all day, car
rying happy freight. The time was
spent bathing, and pulling off various
contests, principally water events. The
sport committee made no report of the
various contests, so we are unable to
give the names of the winners. It is
understood that some of the contests
were interesting and exciting. Sunday
was an ideal day for an outing, and all
present pronounced the picinc to have
been the most enjoyable one ever held
at the delightful spot, which has been
used as picnic grounds for years.
Miss Helen Johnston, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. V. Johnston, had a very
narrow escape from drowning at the
swimming hole in the Okanogan river,
late Saturday afternon. Miss Johnston
and a lady friend were in bathing,
neither can swim and were wading
around In shallow water, when Miss
Johnston stepped into a deep hole and
SECOND CHOICE VOTING.
SUCCESSFUL PICNIC.
NARROW ESCAPE.
went under. Four times she went
down. Fortunately she had the pres
ence of mind to hold her breath when
going under, and at last In her strug
gles her feet touched bottom. In some
manner, which in the desperation of
her fight for life she cannot explain,
she managed to flounder to the bath
bouse platform and grasp the edge.
She was so exhausted that she was un
able to get out of the water. The
shriek of her companion for htfp at
tracted the attention of Mrs. C. W.
Smith, who rushed to the bath house
and pulled the young lady out of the
water. Dr. Efner was called by tele
phone. He found Miss Johnston suf
fering from extreme weakness and
nervousness, but after a rest at the
residence of Mrs. Smith was able to
walk home.
SOMEWHAT DISFIGURED.
Our old friend W. A. Bolinger show
ed up in town Friday last, exposing to
the gibes of the thoughtless a probos
cis that Invited hilarity. The rasped
and ruddy cutwater was not the pro
duct of a vigorous vinous campaign, al
though the Ignorant might imagine
tome such cause to account tor the
unnatural condition of that frontis
piece. We wish to put any such mis
taken idea at rest. The nose was fres
coed in an accident, and considering
the nature of the accident it is provi
dential that Mr. Bolinger bad any nose
at all to exhibit. Mr. Bolinger was
ambling across the bridge over the
Methow at Patents in bis Ford, going
at the moderate speed of abcut six
miles an hour, when the pesky car
buckled and went off the grade, turn
ing turtle. Mr. Bolinger was cast forth
upon the landscape and bis nose plow
ed up quite a prominent furrow in the
sand. The nose was very much disfig
ured, and sundry other bruises and
abrasions bore testimony to the nar
row escape from injuries far more
serious. Mr. Bolinger remarked that
as a nose it was not much of an or
nament Just at the time he was heie,
but it was good to look at in compari
son to its appearance shortly after the
u»e It had bfeen put to. 1
REGISTRATION DAY.
Saturday, August 19, that Is tomor
row, has been designated as “Regis
tration Day” ail over the state for the
purpose of arousing an Interest in the
country precincts and including a full
registration of the voters. All those
who have not already registered in the
three Oroville precincts should be
d (i' •!» o'" tomorrow and get
..air i ■ i ,• To add in
terest to the occasion in preempt* j.-
1 and 2 the various business bouses
have designated certain articles that
will be sold at a sacrifice between cer
tain hours during the day, particulars
of which sale appear in hand bills that
have been profusely distributed, thus
making Saturday a combination "Reg
istration” and “Bargain Day.”
SPECIAL MEETING.
The fourth quarterly meeting of the
Oroville M. E. church will be held Fri
day evening at 8 p. m. August 18, 1916,
The Reverend Robert Brumblay D. D.,
district superintendent of the We
natchee district of the Columbia River
conference will be here and will give
a short address on the general confer
ence that met at Saratoga Springs, N.
1., this year. As Mr. Brumblay was one
of the ministerial delegates to the gen
eral conference he will be prepared to
give us first hand information as to
what was done. It will be worth your
while to be present. Come, everybody.
Word was received here this week
that Joe Hash, one of the three boys
from Oroville who enlisted at the call
for volunteers for service on the Mex
ican border, was quite ill in the regi
mental hospital. Joe is serving in com
pany B, Second Washington regiment,
and E. N. Grubb at once telegraphed
to the captain of the company to as
certain the young man’s condition.
Monday Mr. Grubb received the follow
ing reply from that officer: “Private
Joe Hash’s condition not serious.
Doctor reports temporary ailment.”
This will be reassuring and pleasing
news to all the friends of the young
Mr. and Mrs. Hans Greif, who were
visiting with Mr. and Mrs. C. Schlas
berger for several weeks, have return
ed to their former home in Montana.
they can sell their property they will
return to Oroville to make their home.
Mrs. Greif has been in poor health tor
a long time and during the few weeks
she was here she had almost regained
her normal strength. They are very
favorably Impressed with the country
to a " d are anx?ous
to establish a home here.
A. P. Murray Mur u. ay left last week for
Joliet, Ills,, his old home where ho
lives SPend “ m ° Dth VUlUng w,th rei-
ANOTHER AUTO ACCIDENT.
Sunday afternoon as Joe McDonnell,
for several years a resident of Oro
ville, but more recently a resident of
Lethbridge, Alberta, where he own*
a hotel, was on his way from Seattle
to Orovllle In hla auto, accompanied by
his wife, he went over a grade at In
galls creek, near Leavenworth, and
was very seriously hurt fils wife
Jumped and escaped with alight in
juries. It is stated that both his shoul
der blade and collor bone were broken,
and possibly some of his ribs. He is In
the hospital at Leavenworth. The We
natchee World publishes the following
account of the accident as reported by
an eye Itness:
“Attorney E. L. Baker saw the ac
cident. He was going up the new grade
Just about Ingalls Creek while Mc-
Donald was coming down. Near the
spring which Is some 50 feet below the
spring on the high road, which marked
a very steep ascent, McDonald bit a
little drain which crossed the road, He
was traveling at quite a high rate of
speed for a mountain road and the
drain swerved hls car. It followed very
close to the outside of the grade for
25 or 30 feet and then plunged over the
hill which is hundreds of feet to the
bottom. The car, however, was stopped
about 75 feet down the hill by two
overturned trees. McDonald was bleed
ing badly when taken from the car.
The machine Itself was badly wrecked
being smashed in and all but one
wheel crushed. Mr. Baker quickly sum
moned aid and the man was placed In
the car and taken to Leavenworth for
medical attention.”
AT THE ORPHEUM.
The latest Metro feature production,
"Emma, of Stork’s Nest,” will be pre
sented at the Orpheum with a strong
cast of performers Saturday and Sun
day evenings. This feature is one that
should Interest every movie patron, aa
it is one in which exciting situations
and beautiful scenery predominates.
The advance notices says:
“Emmy, of Stork’s Nest,” a five part
photodrama unfolding a gripping story
of the mountains, and pictuized from
the novel of the same name by J.
Breckenridge Ellis, will be the next
release on the Metro program. Mary
Miles Mlnter, the youthful and capti
vating young actress, who although
not quite 16 years old, already has
won laurels enough to satisfy one twice
her age, has substantially added to
them in her charming portrayal of the
very human mountain girl, who is the
piece. Not since e met with such
sweeping success . L he title role of
‘The »iv’o ' • i hlch she star
' lustln Farnum,
has she had a part so well fitted for her
bewitching and entrancing personality.
Although this is only the second screen
production in which Miss Mlnter has
appeared under Metro auspices
ways in the Way,” being the first —she
has demonstrated that she possesses
the rare gift of capturing the hearts of
her audience immediately upon her
appearance on the screen. “Emmy of
Stork’s Nest,” will be seem -at the Or
pheum Saturday and Sunday evenings.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICE.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
service at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon,
“Making Sacrifices.” Preaching service
at 8 p. m. Subject of sermon, "The
rich man and Lazarus.”
Everybody welcome; everybody In
vited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10. Preaching at
11 o’clock. We invite you to all our
services. Come and bring your friends.
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
Monday evening Marshal Wilson
caught a tartar. The marshal has been
playing in luck for the past few mon
ths in the matter of running up against
obstreperous law breakers, and coming
to the conclusion that everybody had
decided to be good he has of late ceas
ed carrying his persuader, a convinc
ing little blackjack as effective as Ted
dy’s big stick when put to active use.
When .lack Bates rolled off the Prin
ceton train on the evening mentioned,
carrying more liquor on his person,
both inside and out, than the law al
lows, Marshal Wilson proceeded to
take the stranger under his wing. The
stranger objected most strenuously,
and for a time the officer and the in
ebriate were scattered promiscously
about the street, the marshal losing his
shirt In the conflict. There is where
Wilson missed his stick, and Mr. Bates
also missed it, fortunately for the
shape of his head. Without help the
marshal finally jailed his man, who
proved, to be a crack single handed
scrapper, and the next day he contrib
uted $5 and costs toward the upkeep
of the town.
91.60 PER TEAR
