mingtim
VOL. 41
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1916.
NO. 32
FARMINGTON
Pageant and Home-Coming
SEPTEMBER 14, 15 and 16
Pageant on Ozark Athletic Field, Sept. 14 and 16, 8 p.m.
Concert, Sept. 15, under direction of E. C. Barroll.
SEASON TICKETS: ADULTS $1.00; CHILDREN UNDER 14, 60c.
Everybody Invited. Tell Your Friends.
IS INTIMIDATION TO BE
AGAIN ATTEMPTED?
Rumor That All Bonuses Are to Be Cut
Off in Lead Belt, While Prices Con
tinue to Soar, Hardly Believeable
Our Great
SHOE CLEARANCE SALE
Is Now Going on
Big Reductions
Big Selections
Karsch's
The Threatened
Big R. R. Strike
plied that he had been appointed At
torney General of the United States.
Well, says the disguised Attorney
General, what do the people around
here think of the appointment? The
old farmer says, "They jess laugh. "
TWO ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY
BOYS MAY flAVE FREE
WEEK AT MO. STATE FAIR
MR. HUGHES' ICE BLOCK
The speech of candidate Hughes'
last week accepting in a formal man
ner the Republican nomination was
awaited with much interest. The re
sult was a distinct disappointment.
Disappointing to the country because
it fell like a "block of ice", and ac
tually caused a drop in the tempera
ture; disappointing to the Democrats
because it gives them nothing to ans
wer: disappointing to the Republicans State Supcriiitonrieat iiHoward A
liccause it brings them neither joy Gass announces that' Wio State Board
nor hope. of Agriculture has again made pro-
The substance of the speech may vision tor the Boys' State Fair School
be summed up m a few words. It to be held in connection with the Mis
might hav been delivered without souri State Fair at Sedalia September
words, if he had simply brought a JJ-dU.
statue of Mr. Wilson with him to the The State Fair School will be com
notification meeting and a basket of posed of two boys from each county
rotten eggs and tossed them at the selected by a competitive examination
statue one at a time, that would have
been Hughes' speech in all its elo
quence, a speech without words. The
whole speech from beginning to end
was devoted to rotten egging the
President, as the New York World
puts it, and Mr. Hughes does not of
in Arithmetic, Geography and Agri
culture. These boys will be entertain
ed at the expense ol the State Fair
Hoard. Tents, cots, meals, admission
to the grounds, grandstand and stock
pavillion will be furnished free.
A program of lectures and demon
fer the slightest word of constructive i strations will be given in the forenoon
policy as to "how he would have done"
if he had been in Mr. Wfilson's shoes
during the last three years, during
which time he has borne the heaviest
burdens of any of our Presidents ex
cept Washington and Lincoln.
To quote again from the New York
World, which tears the speech to tat
ters and tosses it to the four winds
of heaven as so much rubbish, we
read:
"If Mr. Hughes' speech of accep
tance means anything, it means that
for partisan and personal ends, he is
in sympathy with every foreign coun
try and with every foreign element
that has been in controversy with
President Wilson during the last three
yeras. He is for Huerta and against
the President. He is for Carranza and
against the President- He is for Vil
la and the Mexican bandits and
against the President. He is for
Great Briton against the President.
He is for the German conspiracy and
against the President."
That Mr. Hughes is doing all that
he can to win the votes of the hyphen
ated American has been repeatedly
.charged, not only by the Democrats
but even the organs of his own party
have criticised him for making a bid
for the un-American vote.
The New York Tribune is admitted
ly the foremost Republican organ of
the United States and is. trying hard
to be a staunch American paper and
to support Mr. Hughes at the same
time, but finds it a difficult purpose to
accomplish. In speaking of Mr.
Hughes' speech of acceptance, it
comments in part as follows:
"It would be idle to pretend that the
portion of Mr. Hughes' address which
deals with the Lusitania massacre
and our relations with Germany is
satisfactory to the Tribune. Nor
shall we undertake to make any such
pretense."
The Tribune is with very large
company in being dissatisfied with the
speech of Mr. Hughes, and the Tri
bune and the country will also realize
that the country is not only dissatis
fied with the speech but dissatisfied
with Mr. Hughes also.
Senator John S. Williams of Missis
sippi was asked for an opinion on the
speech of Mr. Hughes, and he says
it reminded him of an appointment of
a man some years ago as Attorney
General of the United States, who
had wver been able to make a liv
ing at home; so after he had been in
office a while he went back home and
walked around through the country
diessed like a farmer, and asked what
had become of so and so, (naming
himself)? The first old farmer re
ef each day. In the afternoon and
evenings the boys will see the sights
ot the fair.
The county superintendent will give
the examination August 26, 1916, at
l armmgton, Mo., beginning at 9 a. m.
Boys between the ages of 13 and
17 on October 1, 1910, and who have
not attended are eligible.
Here is a chance for a fine trip, an
opportunity to see a great State Fair,
and all tree to the boys who win.
Boys, don't say "1 can't"; perhaps
all the other fellows are saying that.
Don t be in the class that doesn't try.
For additional informati noaddress
J. CLYDE AKERS.
County Superintendent, Farmington,
Missouri.
THE LOGIC OF CONQUEST
A recent issue of The Independent
illustrates how impossible it is for the
annexationists to conceal their inter
est. The Independent is a high-class
publication one of the fairest in the
country. It is supporting Hughes,
but it is doing it in a candid, clean and
honorable way.
In its issue of July 3d page 3 it
disclaims for the nation any desire
for territory: "The United States has
no hunger for Mexican territory, no
thirst for selfish aggrandizement."
On page 4, however, it protests
against any "binding of our hands."
"We have no purpose of conquest or
aggression," but "BUT we do not
know what the future will bring forth.
We cannot know what our duty will
be when our immediate task in Mex
ico is done."
And then, on page 6 we read, under
head of "Essentials of National Inde
pendence," "We need no more room
for expansion, though we need to have
control of more tropical territory for
the raw materials that it alone can
furnish.
Here we have it. The logic of con
quest is very plain "We need it," but
of course, we don't want it. Needing
it, they say we should not bind our
selves not to take it if "duty" com
pels it.
It is the old story of lust for land,
which leads to conquest, excused on
the ground of duty. If this country
has any duty it is to suppress the doc
trine of conquest and to teach love and
brotherhood.
W. J. BRYAN.
The country-wide contest between
i the various brotherhoods of railroad
employes and railroad managers over
the demand of the former for an eight
hour day and time and a half for ov
ertime, and the vote of the brother
hoods to strike if their demands are
not granted, has been engrossing pub
lic attention the past week. If the
threatened strike should take place
the wheels of 225 railroad systems
would stop practically all the rail
roads in the United States. Such a
.-itrike would paralyze business and
cause untold inconvenience and suffer
ing throughout the country. It is the
most gigantic labor strike that was
ever contemplated.
The committees of railroad mana
gers and the committee of railroad
employe brotherhoods have failed to
agree on any point to avert th
threatened catastrophe. Then the
rederal Board of Mediation and Ar
bitration met the committees of the
two contending forces in an effort to
help them to arrive at some amicable
conclusion, but their efforts were u
complete failure, and the brotherhoods
refused to arbitrate. At this point
President Wilson notified the commit
tees of both contending forces that
he desired to consult with them over
their troubles. He met representa
tives of both sides at the White House
and reasoned with them, but no defi
nite proposition for settling the con
troversy developed. Mr. Wilson sur
prised both sides with his knowledge
ar.cl wide grasp of the questions at
issue.
The President suggested as a com
promise that the railroad managers
grant the eight-hour day nnd leave the
question of over-time pay for later
adjudieation. Whether a settlement
may be reached on this basis does not
yet appear. It is said that if an agree
ment is not reached, the President has
hinted that he may take the whole
matt.-r to Congress, that he intends to
exhaust every means within his and
the government's power to avert the
universal calamity that such a s rike
would entail upon the country.
THE CATHOLIC FESTIVAL
It has recently been quietly whis
pered about that the old-time noliti
cal trick, that in times past has been
worked bo successfully, of attempting
to make the miners throughout the
Lead Belt believe that their jobs were
at a premium, is to he neain attemnt-
ed soon, in the hope of coercing the
miners for political purposes. The
report is that all bonuses, amounting
to 30 pei cent, of the wage scale, is
to be Knocked off.
The Times cannot believe that such
a thing will be attempted, especially
in view of the continued soaring pric
es of lead, which is turning money in
to the loffers of the mine owners in
a volume never before known. Such
a thing r unbelieveablc, in view of the
present prosperity with which the en
tire Lead Belt is reeking.
Then what could be the object of
the companies for such a drastic
course as this rumor suggests? They
are no longer novices in the employ
ment of labor, and they must know
the greatly added value of happy and
contented employes over discontented
and unhappy ones. They doubtless
have in the past been forced to a real
ization of the fact that it pays them
well to give to the workmen the dif-
ience." If that be true, then we can
not believe that the mine owners have
even for a moment contemplated
"killing the goose that lays the golden
egg" for them. With a shut-down,
the golden stream to the mine owners
would not only cease to flow, but their
expensive mining equipment would
necessarily rust and decay from dis
use. It is easily remembered by people
in this community, as well as through
out the Lead Belt, when the mines
were being operated and lead was be
ing put upon the market, at a small
rise of 2 cents a pound. No individu
al, who has any information on the
subject, has any doubt as to the pro-
tit in the business, to the stockholders
of the lead companies, when lead is
rising 4 cents a pound. Then, with
the present price of lead around 6
cents a pound, is there the shadow of
a reason for those companies becoming
alarmed, and being filled with a de
sire to "revolutionize" things? If
such is their desire, then indeed is cap
ital progressing backward, and ac
quitting itself as a coyote, instead of
as a lion.
The "bonus" idea is to make the
question of wage reduction more sim-
ierence between poor wages and good j pie and easy of accomplishment, by
wyP' simply knocking off one or more bo-
Then, too. the average miner is now nuses, which has always been im
"i 3 "I."1'1 h'Khel' 0l cier of intelligence I pressed as n gift, without forcing the
than they have been in the past. They I employes to submit to the painful op-
erauon oi a reduction m wages. Hut
Auto Thieves
Are Caught
Deputy Sheriff Sam Doss returned
Saturday on the noon train from Mt.
Vernon, 111., having in custody Geo.
Black and Luther Sutherland, who
had been arrested near Mt. Vernon by
the local Sheriff, who had the number
of the stolen machine, as well as de
scription of the thieves.
These boys, each of whom is only
18 years old, and who have grown up
in Elvins, had a few days previous
stolen a Ford car from Raymond Tla
pek, and the machine was still running
wnen overnauiea. remaps the boys
knew nothing more of where they
were going than did the machine, ex
cept that they were "running away."
They perhaps thought, after they had
crossed over into Illinois that they
were too far away ever to be caught,
and had failed to take the precaution
of defacing or changing the number
of the muchine.
It will be much easier now for them
to tell where they are going than it
was on their wild ride to "nowhere."
They were placed in jail, but Justice
Good immediately fixed their bond at
$1,000 each, which both succeeded in
giving, and they were liberated the
same afternoon. But young Black
did not appear to appreciate the favor
his houdsmen had done him, and in
sisted" on making light of his predic
ament by being "funny" which re
sulted in his bondsmen turning him
back into the hands of the law, and
he was remanded back to jail to await
his trial.
In this connection we would state
that Deputy Sam Doss has gained the
icputation of never returning empty
handed whenever he starts after any
one or anything. He generally re
turns with the "goods".
kmow ui.u me price ot lead II soar
ing as it as never before soared, and
they also know that the profits to the
companies are in keeping with the
record-breaking market on lend Tin
der such conditions, whut would be the
the bonus has long ago conic to be
recognized as an integral part of the
wage scale, and any tampering, even
with the bonuses, would be vigorously
resented by the employes while the
hrst thought that would naturally oc-1 price of lead continues at its present
cur to the mind of the average miner, high-water mark,
on being told that they had been; But The Times cannot believe there
stripped of their bonuses? The ques-1 is reality in the rumor of any such in
tion is too simple to require an ans-! tention, on the part of the mining op
wer. crntors nf rntHner nff tho I ,
There have been charges in the past No other reason could be given, than
in regard to moves having been made
ny tne lead companies purely for po
litical reasons. There are. nerhans
purely political, for any such action
at such a time as this, when the Lead
Belt is overflowing with prosperity
no residents of this county who have: It has often been alleged that capitai
not heard of such reports. But it is ! knows when it is well off. If so, then
aiu tnuj. knowledge comes of exper-1 it will sure'v lt ;v,-n enough alone.
New Congres
sional Committee
Print Paper Is
Still Going Up
Mail Delivery
Continues Worse
The weather was not very good to
our Catholic friends Tuesday evening,
the occasion of the annual festival of
Farmington St. Joseph's Church, in
sending a terrific electrical storm and
rain that compelled them to postpone
tne iestivai until Wednesday evening.
It entailed much extra work, for so
much decorating had been done that
had to be replaced Wednesday. But
all s well that ends well: on the latte
evening a large crowd was present
and everything went oil in fine shape.
The attendance prizes were a dia
mond ring and a "hope box." The
former was won by Mr. Wichman of
Doe Kun and John W. McCarthy got
the "hope box." This festival of St.
Joseph s Church is one that is looked
forward to each year with pleasure
as everybody who attends is sure to
nave a good time.
At a meeting of the Democratic The delivery of mail, from DeLas
Congressional Committee of the 13th sus to Farmington, which last week
district, held a DeSoto Tuesday after-' appeared to be slightly improved, has
noon, Geo. W. Stivers of Greenville, ! this week suffered a serious relapse,
and Parkhurst Sleeth of Flat River, I As a general thing, during the past
were elected as members of the Dem- j few days, it has been practically 12
.n iMuy ouue vjoimnuiee representing o clock, noon, before the morning mail
this district. The officers of the com
mittee chosen were: Chairman, Dr.
J. H. Parker, Jefferson county; Sec-
retary, Wm. Huck, Ste. Genevieve ;
county; Treasurer, Geo. T. Lee, Car-!
ter county.
Resolutions were adopted endorsing
the State and National administra-
from St. Louis, which is supposed to
rcaen Dei.assus at about 6:30 u. m.,
can be distributed at this office, not
reaching here, as a rule, until 10 or
1 1 o clock.
As stated in The Times last week,
there seems to be no one particularly
at lault tor this lamentable condition
THIS BABY GETS AWARD
Last October Raymond Graham
and Miss Tonia Dietring and Conrad
Uietring and Miss Grace Graham
were married. Mr. Dietring. the
father, it is said promised to give the
first male heir $100 dollars and a
white face male calf. Last Monday
a bouncing boy came to gladden the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Gra
ham and according to his grandpa's
promise he falls the heir to the $100
and calf; at least that is the story as
It . .. i i . m ,
it was tuiu to a ximes reporter.
LAWSON PRICE
You will save money by buying a
season ticket to tho Chautauaua. Ten
splendid entertainments fo the small
Bum of $1.50.
Lacy L. Lawson and Miss Kvn
Price, both of Frankclay, were united
in maiiiage in mis city last inursaay,
August 10th, Justice Wm. Good tvinc
the knot hard and fast.
The happy couple are now "at home"
to their friends in Frankclay, where
they have gone to housekeeping. Their
many friends wish them long life, full
of happiness.
tions and the excellent congressional of affairs. The morning mail out of
record made by Congressman Walter Bismarck for this point is handled by
L. Hensley. A high tribute was paid a local freight, and while it is sup-
I , , ! . . , i i . i - 1 L 1 ' I ... i I I i ilk I 1 1 1 la a.
poseo to nave a schedule, it never runs
to Frederick D. Gardner, the Demo
cratic nominee for Governor. A res
olution was also adopted endorsing
Benj. H. Marbury of Farmington for
appointment by Governor Major to
the St. Louis Court of Appeals in the
vacancy caused by the resignation of
Judge Nortoni.
Plans were perfected for an active
campaign to be waged for the re-elec
tion ot Congressman Hensley. An
executive committee, composed of J
H. Parker, Wm. Huck, Geo. T. Lee,
ueo. w. stivers and rarkhurst Sleeth
was appointed to confer with Con
gressman Hensley regarding the
speaking dates and places for Wm. J
Bryan, Champ Clark, Senator J. Ham
Lewis and other orators of national
repute, who will be in the district dur
ing the campaign
All the counties of the district were
represented, with the exception of
Perry county.
BIRTHDAY PARTY
Master Joe Story is "eight going on
nine," and in honor of this event he
invited in eight of his little friends to
spend a tew hours Saturday afternoon,
August 12th. Every moment of the
time was full of fun, as all were wide
awake boys. Those present were Mas
ters Harry Smith, Stephen Fleming,
Allen and Fred Brewer, Joe Story and
Nicholas, Joe Douglas and Gus Phil
lips. At 5:30 o'clock they were invit
ed into the beautifully decorated din
ing room, where delicious refreshments
were served, and on separating all
voted Master Joseph a delightful en
tertainer.
PAGEANT REHEARSALS
Rehearsals for tho Farmington
Pageant are being held daily for the
various scenes. The director, Mrs. F.
S. Weber, has called for a full re
hearsal this (Friday) evening at 7
o'clock. It is important that cvery-
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS
Hon. Kdward F. Goltra, National
Democratic Committeeman, and A. J.
Meyer, u prominent stockholder in one
of the lead companies operating in one taking part be on hand, and they
this vicinity, both of St. Louis, were are very earnestly requested to be
guests a few hours of Judge E. E. there promptly. If you do not know
Swink and family, of near town. These where your scene is being rehearsed
geMlemen are old friends of Judga .rtep into the Public Library and find
Swink. 1 mjt hut be there
on it. In fact it has of late been run
ning, it seems, about two-and-a-half
to three-and-a-half hours late. Even
the Postoffice Department appears to
be unable, as yet, to work out a solu
tion of this problem, wherehy Farm
ington may receive the daily mail
while it is "news."
The Times would offer, as another
solution of this most vexing condition,
the establishment of auto service from
Bismarck, which would make possible
early morning mail for Farmington.
Such a line could also carry passen
gers. Would the Postoffice Depart
ment give such an idea a serious
thought ?
INDECENT EXPOSURE
Lena Hartzell, a comely girl of 17
summers, was brought in from Des-
loge the last of the week and placed in
jail to serve out a $30 fine that had
been assessed against her for "inde
cent exposure" near that nlace. Lena.
who has been married, and whose hus
band is now in Hospital No. 4, was in
swimming with two boys, whose
names we have failed to get, when
they were Surprised by an officer.
One of the boys made his escape,
while the other paid his fine, leaving
the woman in the case, as is usually
the custom, to bear the real burden
of the wrong-doing. Exact justice
would demand that each of those bpys
should be forced to endure equal pun
ishment with the girl in the case, ev
en though she may be a "soiled dove."
A FUNNY SIGHT
A Renubliran candidate going up
and down the country complaining
about President Wilson's diplomatic
Appointments makes a funny sight.
Embassador Herrick, whose case pains
Mr. Hughes so deeply, knew nothing
ahout diplomacy when he went to Par
is. He was president of a savings
bank and an Ohio politician. Never
theless, Herrick succeeded Henry
White, a dinlomat of long experience
who knew France because he was edu
cated there Republic.
We notice in Tuesday's edition of
the Caruthersville Democrat an arti
cle calling attention to the constant
upward tendency of the price of print
paper, and that paper has concluded
that it must advance its subscription
price in order to prevent an actual
loss to its publisher. Among other
things, it says: "After October 1,
1916, every new subscriber to The
Democrat, and each renewal, will cost
you at the rate of $1.50 per annum.
We feel that this move is not only
fair to ourselves, but believe we are
defrauding no one in thus 'auiing th
subscription price."
Such action is being taken not only
by the Caruthersville Democrat, but
a number of other papers, in all parts
of the State, as elsewhere, have cither
advanced the price 0 subscription, or
have already given notice that the
subscription price will be raised at a
certain date. "Self-preservation is
the first law of nature," and it is just
this overpowering instinct that has
suggested a raise in the subscription
price of papers.
This ouestion lias been umi-ulm.
The Times management for some time
past, and if the price of news print
continues to go higher, this paper will
soon be compelled to raise its sub
scription price to $1.50 per year. There
are no county papers in the State
that are larger than The Times, and
very few that contains as much read
ing matter as does this paper; yet
many smaller papers have increased
their subscription price for the reason
that their profit on subscription is on
the wrong side of the ledger. There
fore it does not require a mathemati
cian to figure how The Times is com
ing out on the subscription proposi
tion under existing circumstances.
However, we do not intend to make
any advance in subscription rate so
long as we can possibly avoid it. A
very good way to prolong such action
would be for all those who are in ar
rears, even for a few months, to pay
up such delinquency and advance their
subscription at the present price of
$1.00 per year. Can you think of any thing
worth while that can be pur
chased at so' small a cost as a good
county seat paper at $1.00 a year?
Bring or send in that dollar, or what
ever you may be behind on subscrip
tion, and thereby help us to keep up
the high standard The Times has fixed
in newspaper production and also
help us to keep down the price of sub
scription.
A DREAM OF BALLOTS
One of our local physicians told us
of a dream he had the other night.
He dreamed that it was election day
and he was on his way to town to cast
his vote. He met some one on the
way and asked him how the election
was going, and was told that Wilson
was away ahead. He then looked up
and saw a vision of the whole coun-,
try spread out before him and the air
was filled with Wilson ballots flowing
down like snowflakes. The Doctor
says the scene appeared as real as
anything he ever looked upon, and he
hoped that it was an omen of what
will occur in November. Of course he
told his dream to his wife before -breakfast,
and according to an old
superstition it is bound to come true.
BARN AND WHEAT BURNED
The large barn of A. S. Krekol, some
miles north of town, was struck by
lightning last Tuesday night and set
on fire and completely destroyed.
Besides the barn, he lost about 500
bushels of wheat, a lot of hay, farm
implements, etc. Insurance in the
Farmers' Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
only partly covers the loss.
