THE BARRE BAILY TIME
VOL. XX - NO. 132.
JtAKHi:. VKHMOX.T. Fill DAY, AUGUST 18, 1010.
PRICK, OXE CEXT.
f
FLEURY HELD
BY FRENCH
Germans Expelled from the
. Town After Violent Fight
ing, Announces Paris
FRENCH ALSO GAINED
INTIIIAUMONTZONE
German Counter-Attacks on
Somme Front Were
Repulsed
Paris. Aug. 11 Heavy attacks wero
made by the French lat night on the
Verdun front. After violent fighting t
rieurr, thry expelled the German from
the part of the town which had beeu
captured, lays an official itatement. Sev
eral German counter attack on the
fconime front were rpuled. Tie Frencli
also made considerable progress In tho
Thiauniont region.
The official communication last niirU
as a follow a:
"On the Somme front our artillery waa j
active to-day and carried out nuuierou
destructive bombardment against the
enemy organizations. There has been no
infantry action.
The number of unbounded prisoners
taken north of the Somme yesterday
exceeded 2(10. We also captured five ma
chino guns.
"There has been the usual cannonade
on the remainder of the front." The aft
ernoon announcement follows:
"On the Somme front the enemy made
to attempt at counter-attack during the
night.
"Our troops are organizing the posi
tions they won. Artillery fighting con
tinues wil.Ii great violence in the region
north of Maurcpas and in the sector of
Bclloy-en-Santerre.
"Oh the remainder of tie front the
night was calm."
nation in the central port
iroiil, which except for
l'a 111 in the Luke reL-ioil tout
has remained irtuatlr unaltered lme !
t lie Ittiuinns fell lack lout autumn to
(he line from )wn-k to the Plnk
marshes. The Austrian line now has re
reded to far before the repeated thrusts
of the south western Kuaitiaii forces that
the German are in danger of a flanking
movement from the south ami the auto
matic retirement of the force opposed
to the Russian center.
Ixupite the desultory hurst of activ
ity at various points, I'ussian ofiieers ay
there are many indications that the Ger
mans are prepared to aliandon their
present line on this part of the front at
any moment.
The correspondent of the Associated
Prcsa made a week's tour along the
front commanded by General Alexel
F.vert from laike 1'aroei to the region
of the liaranovichi, and fouml the Rus
sian soldiers niokt anxious for an oppor
tunity to advance. The armies com
manded bv General Evert are the eame
which, crippled by a shortage of ammu
nition and aupplies, were forced to aur
render a large part of Poland a year ago.
Commanders who brought back only
broken remnant of their divisions to
the present positions now are Increasing
to splendidly equipped units. The men
share with their officers the determina
tion to recapture the ground lost in To
land. T)e aoldier eeem to be plentifully
supplied with wholesome food and are
living under the best sanitary condi
tions, lhav are surrounded by comiorts
and conveniences comparable to those of
a model American summer camp.
EfH'RAILWAY MEN
ARE VOTING ON
WILSON'S PLAN
Meanwhile Railroad Presi
dents Held a Conference
with Their Managers Be
fore Going into Confer
ence with President This
AfternoonThere Is Fear
of a Deadlock
EMPLOYES MAY ACCEPT
PRESIDENT'S SCHEME
PROPOSE TO RON I)
FOR $130,000,000
Majority Member of the Senate Finance
Committee Recommend Such a Step
to Congress Following Report
of the Finance Committee.
That Provides for a Basic
Eight-Hour Day and Set
tlement of Side Issues by
Special Commission The
Railroads Want to Admit
Public to Negotiations
RUSSIANS RESISTING
COUNTER ATTACK
Petrograd Claims that Efforts of Teutons
in Galicia Have Had No Success and
Resulted in Great Losses
to the Attackers.
Petrograd, Aug. IS. The Austro-Ger
man effort to throw back the Russians
in Galicia has resulted in great looses
and met with no success, the war office
announces. The Russians have pressed
forward in several sectors.
GERMAN ARTILLERY ACTIVE
Made Heavy Bombardment of British
Positions on Somme Front.
London, Aug. 18. The German artil
lery became more active alone tho
Somme front last night. A small Brit
ish gain was reported by the war office.
Six determined Gorman counter at
tacks on the British trenches northwest
of Pozieres were repulsed with heavy
losses to the attackers, according to the
official statement issued by the war of
fice last night.
The statement reads:
"On our right there was considerable
artillery activity all day. Last night
and early this morning the enemy de
livered a series of determined counter
attacks on our trenches northwest of
Pozieres on a broad frout and with oon
eiderabie force.
"Six times his infantry advanced to
the attack, but ran back suffering very
heavy losses. Our gun and machine
guns did great execution. In no case did
he succeed in entering our line.
"Northwest of Bazentin we captured
About 100 yards of trenches. A counter
attack made by the enemy to-day from
Martinpuich was repulsed and aome pris
oners were captured by'us. A German
aeroplane was brought down behind our
line neaj- Poderea."
DECLARES PORTUGAL
WILL SOON JOIN
Portuguese Minister of War Asserta
That Hia Country Will Fight on
Side of Entente Allies.
Lisbon, Aug. 18. Major Mattoa, Por
tuguese minister of war, announces that
Portugal soon will participate in the war,
fgbting on the side of the entente aJliet.
" AUSTRIAN SEAPLANES ACTIVE.
Washington, P. C, Aug. 13. A bond
issue of $130,00i,00 to meet extraordi
nary government expenditure due to the
Mexican situation was unexpectedly rec
ommended to Congress last night by ma
jority members of the Senate finance
committee w ith the concurrence of the
treasury department.
The bond issue is urged in the report
of the finance committee Democrats tiled
in the Senate late yesterday on the $20',
000.000 revenue bill. The finance com
mittee asserts that further appropria
tion of $3H,000,000 will be necessary to
defray the expense of operations in the
Mexican emergency if conditions on the
border continue as thev are now after
Dec. 31. 1916. The if 130,000,000 to be;
provided by the proposed bond issue, the j
report savs, will meet Mexican expendi- j
tures only until the end of this calendar
year.
Accompanying the finance committee
majority's report submitted by Senator
Simmons was a general statement from
the treasury department, estimating dis
bursements for the fiscal year 1 r 1 7 at
$1,126,243,000 and receipts" $762,000,000,
making the excess of disbursements over
receipts $364,243,000.
The total appropriations for the fiscal
vear 1017, exclusive of those carried in
the so-called shipping bill, which is to
be defrayed by the issuance of Panama
bonds, will exceed the appropriations for
the fiscal year 1016 by about $400,000
ooii, says tne report, I his increase is
represented principally by additional
amounts appropriated for the navy,
army, fortification and deficiency appro
priations. "But for the additional expenditures
made necessary to defray the cost of
preparedness the increased revenue to be
raised by this bill would not be neces
sary," says the report, "and the estimat
ed receipts under the present law would
be considerably in excess of the esti
mated disbursements for the fiscal year
1917. In this connection attention is
called to the fact that $21,000,000 of the
normal increase for the present, fiscal
year represents the amount appropriated
for rural credits and good roads."
Deducting the amount of the proposed
bond igsue from the estimated disburse
ments over receipts, the additional rev
enue required for the year 1917 would
amount to $234,253,000. "It Is estimat
ed," the report says, "that the bill as
amended by your committee will raise
$205,000,000, leaving a balance of $2!,-
213,000 to be taken from the general
fund of the treasury, which amounts on
the 16th instant, excluding credits o'
disbursing officer, to $134,337.(135."'
In Its analysis of the revenue bill as
revised by the Senate committee the
treasury department estimates that the
annual revenue to be derived will be:
From income tax, $100,500,000; inheri
tance tax, $20,000,000 for 1017 (after law
s in full force, approximately $65,000,-
000) j munitions manufacturers' tax, $40,-
000,000; miscellaneous, including beer.
liquor, stamp taxes, etc., $35,000,000, a
total of $205,000,000.
Washington, D. C, Aug. IS. While
the 640 representatives of the railway
employes were assembled in secret ses
sion to vote on the acceptance of Presi
dent Wilson's plan for averting a nation
wide strike, the railroad presidents and
managers held a final conference before
going to the White House. The time for
the conference with the railroad presi
dents was postponed from 11 o'clock this
forenoon to 2 o'clock this afternoon.
There were indications that the em
ployes would vote to accept Wilson's
proposal of a luisic eight-hour day and
settlement of side issues by a special
commission; but hope for a settlement
was endangered by evidence that the
railroad president were backing up their
managers. The committee were not in
clined to grant an eight-hour day unlesh
it be decided bv arbitration and in any
event might ask W uson for a little time
to think over the proposition. The rail
road presidents want arbitration umli
the Xewhinds act, with two arbitrators
for the roads, two for the men and two
for the public. Some of the president
are said to Ml that the public will sup
port, their offer to arbitrate everything
in dispute.
In 'he men's meeting the leading ob
Section to Wilson's plan was that if i
was accepted without extra pay for over
time which the men demanded the rail
roads would contend that the sole pur
pose of the men was to obtain more
money and not to get an eight-hour day
BIG PLANT TO HE SOLD.
How Scale Work of Rutland to Be Part
of Bis Merger.
Rutland, Aug. 18-Hy a gigantic merg
er of -! factories throughout the coun
try, the Howe Kal company of Rut
land U to be sold to western capitalist,
it is rumored, for a sum rppr 'Ximatmg
I.inxi.inni, although If the 1 material
ize the plant will remain in Holland and
(.. John A M't'l will ttll .e at Its
head.
For six month past, overtures have
IVen wade by capitalist from the Vt,
but it wa not until within a fortnight
that matter have begun to come to a
head. One of the condition imposed
by Mr. Mead, who, with hi family con
trol considerably over the majority of
the capital stock of f.An.000, w that
the preent executive tatT hould b re
tained, and thi waa agreed to hy the
prospective purchaser umiii the condi
tion that Mr. .Mead alto t v main to di
rect the buaine for three year at
least, which he will do. The present pol
icy of the cl work is to be carried out
under it new ownership.
By the purchase of the plant It will be
come the largest of it kind in the world.
Where now nearly TOO men are empolyed,
the number will be Increased and th
business itself enlarged
HAS VETOED
ARMY BILL
President Wilson's Act Will
Prolong the Session
of Congress
ENJOYS 96TH BIRTHDAY
J200 MOTORED
T0S0.R0YALT0N
BY DEMANDING
NEW MEASURE
Wilson Not Pleased with Ex
emption from Discipline
of Army Officer
.tafT. the company now employ, over . priMtion ,,; bp,.a,1 ,)f U(t
I, lKi persons, and the probability is that ! , .. . ,. , . .
this numl-r may be trebled. Additions from disc.pl.ne reHred oil
to the plnnt have already been started.
AN AUTOMOBILE PARADE,
Was a Feature of Old Home Week Cele
bration at Stowe.
Washington, I). C, Aug. IS. President
With the Held . Wilson to-day vetoed the army appro-
exemption
Ulcers which
was forced into it by the House confer
ee who were led by Representative Hay.
The representative re-introduced the bill
minus not only the section to which the
president objected but with the whole
revision of articles of war eliminated.
Ther 'have been broad intimations
that the exemption feature was in the
interests of a certain retired officer wait
ing for the time when he would be im
mune from discipline to make a publia
anacK on the army.
President Wilson decided to veto the
bill after discussing the question with
Stowe, Aug. IS An automobile parade
was held yesterday afternoon in connec
tion with the celebration of Old Home
week. The parade started from the
Methodist church. escorted bv the Stowe
Military band and led bv the float of
the camptire girl of the Methodist church.
The flimt. WHS n.-of niulv decorated and
was occupied by 22 member of the camp, j I"! "i . "r T1' Veto f
tv,u - .. ii... k- ia .u A.r.tA the, Mil, which contains provisions for
automobiles, the fi'rst occupied bv offi-1 fllR PPrt of the army as it is to be
cers of the Old Home Week association
(ln u-aa drawn Vir nvm until, nnmii Mr.
ried horribles and othe'r burle.nue fea-' P"fs-'e of a new bill and possibly may
tures. The prize for the best feature;
. I 1. - J 1 4 . 1 !
"i me paraue was accornea 10 me camp
tiro girls.
The program of sports' carried out on
Man street wa witnessed by about 500
people, and was followed by a ball game
on Stafford's meadow between a IStowe
team and a More town team.
The annual Old IIoni week hall at the
Akeley memorial building Wednesday
evening was attended by 75 couples. Mu
sic was by Carroll's orchestra of Barre.
Mrs. Nancy Wood, Barre' Oldest Native,
Keeps Quite Well.
One whom Jlarre Is proud to honor a
it oldest native resident celebrated her
I'llth birthday to day. Mrs. Nanev Wood,
wife of the Iste Benjamin Wood, ob
aerved her natal anniversary much th
ame h in the past. At her home on
west hill, the ancestral Wood home, she
receive'! a number of caller this after
noon, devoted a part of her time to read
ing congratulatory letters and postcards,
and was reaay to carry on her own share
of the conversation when anvone'rhose
to talk.
x:::vrit acquaintance tou n?
longevity. Anil by way ot proving mat
she believes thoroughly in these good,
(Id -fa dunned commandments, the verier-
uble lady puts the three of them into
practice every day. Since Christmas she
ha completed more than .VI beautiful
i.ecimens of embroiderv. It l work to
which she turns her hand deftly and few
there are of this generation who match
her in skill with the needle. Visitors to
day had an opportunity to inspect some
of the handcratt of lier own creation.
Mrs. Wood retains her wonderful mental
ity to a marked degree and except for a I When the 200 and more Barre people
slight deafness she is enjoying her usual I bent on getting acquainted with other.
good health, lien she len t busy plving towns motored into South Royalton last
the needle, she is poring over a took or levelling at 7 o'clock they found a whole '
a newspaper. Hie takes a deep interest I villageful of people waiting to welcome
in current events Mnd discusses intellig-1 them, and from then till after 10 o'clock '
ibly some of the more absorbing issues they spent a most delightful time. It is
of the day. estimated that there were nearly 2,000
Naturally those who are near of kin people gathered in and near the village i
are closest to the nonegenarian and while j park, making one of the largest crowds
she looked forward with pleasure to re- assembled there in a long time. People
reiving old-time friends to-day, she is I came from many of the surrounding'
anticipating even more keenly the ap-j towns and from as far north as Ran-i
dolph and from as far south as v nite ;
River Junction; and all joined in for a .
general "get-together" in so far as it was i
possible in the limited time. The tour
was the fourth held by the Barre Board .
of Trade during the summer and was
the largest of the series. Nearly 50 au-
And Joined with Gathering.
Which Numbered Well '
Toward 2,000 People !
VERY PLEA? AT,
Supper Served to o'er 425
People Entertainment
Afterwards
proaching visit of her son, Albert I
Wood of Dorchester, Mass., who is to ar
rive next week for a sojourn in his moth
er g home.
HELD FOR TRIAL.
increased and for all the troops now in
jthe Mexican service, will necessitate the
delay the adjournment of Congress.
VERM0NTERS PAID OFF
And They Also Had a Muddy Brush with
the "Enemy."
Eagle Pass, Tex., Aug. IS. The First
Vermont is helping the merchants of
Lfr.agle Pass to grow richer. The regiment
was paid for July yesterday and the
northerners feel like plutocrats. That
paymaster surely did receive a warm
welcome. He was cheered again and
again. He was iindcubtedly in the eyes
of the Vermnnters the roost popular man
In the country.
Many of the Green Mountain bovs
hastened to the city and telegraphed
some of the money home to their wives
and mothers. The postoffice did a big
business with money orders.
Colonel Reeves' men were a muddy
crowd yesterday. The three battalions
went out again to meet the enemy. It
rained all Wednesday night, and the rain
kept up yesterday. The roads were mud
dier than they have been at any time
since the Vermontere came here. In fact,
the weather conditions were as miser
able as they possibly could be, but rain
and mud and other obstacls did not deter
the members of the First. They took up
their work cheerfully, met the enemy,
fought valiantly and came back to camp
victoriously.
But Italian Air Machines axe Also Ex
acting Toll
Rome, via London, Aug. 18. Another
Austrian air raid on Venice is
in the official statement issued
war otlice last night. Only slight dam
age was don and there were no c&sua!
ties. The text of the statement follows:
"Our Voisin aeroplanes bombarded the
railway station at Reifenberg, on the
Goritzia-Trieete line, with good resulta.
AH of our machines returned eafely. Last
right hostile seaplanes dropped bomb
rn Venice and the Grado lagoon. They
caused slight damage and there were no
casualties.1' .
STRIKE NOT GROWING
Winchester Repeating Arms Co. Says 100
Men Are Out.
New Haven, Conn., Aug. 18. When
the regular day force went into the Win
chester Fire Arms Co. plant this morn
ing there was no evidence of accessions
to the ranks, of those machinists who
struck yesterday for an eight-hour day.
l ne company says 100 men are out.
Extra precaution were taken last
night to protect the great plant of the
reported !conirany. which employs 1S.OO0 persons,
by the!A squad of city policemen patroled
rne grounos and extra company guards
were on duty. There has been no dis
order. Coincident with the etrike 51 local
manufacturers announced that "under
the present conditions we will not make
any general change In our schedule of
working hours, nor erant any demand
that are being promoted by "labor aei
tator." The Winchester company was
one of the firm signing the statement.
BURIED IN HIS WELL.
Joseph Stefanik Caught Under 23 Feet
of Sand.
IN STRAIGHT SETS.
Fred H. Harris of Brattleboro Won State
Tennis Championship.
Brattleboro, Aug. , IS. Fred II. Harris
won the singles tennis championship of
Vermont here yesterday afternoon when
he defeated A. H. Ciiapin of Springfield
in straight set. Paired with Arthur
Verey of Montreal, Harris won the dou
bles championship, defeating Roger
Brackett of Brattleboro and F. J. Lar
men of Philadelphia also in straight seta.
Semi-finals: Harris, Brattleboro, beat
Heine, Philadelphia, 00, 63. Finals
singles: Harris beat A. H. Chapin,
.Springfield, Mass., 62, 2, 63.
Doubles semi-linals, Harris and Vezey
heat Richard Doughty of Detroit, ami
CTinpin. 36, 63. 3.
Brackett and La r men beat Eugene
Heine and W aketield - Dort, 4- 6, 63,
63.
Doubles finals: Harris and Vczev de
feated Brackett and Larmon fr 3, (1 3,
7 5.
After Tangled Tale Was Unwound About JI?1" U8ed t0 C8rry th BarrB
Ions Bennett. On account of the dusty condition of,
River street chaff was separated from te highway no attempt waa made to;
the wheat in city court this morning
FIVE FIRES IN ROW
CAUSE $200,000 LOSS
Business Part of Amsterdam, N. 1.,
Attacked by Firebug Two Lum
ber Yards Among Property
Destroyed.
Amsterdam, X. Y., Aug. 18. Five firea
of incendiary origin, which started al
most simultaneously to-day, occasioned
a loss of $200,000 in the south side busi
ness section, destroying the lumber yards I fense, although the latter was also used
ot the -Mohawk. Valley Lumber company
and tlie li. u ijneme company.
run in the usual procession, 50 feet
when Iona Bennett, known better as the pa", as the original rules stated, but ;
trvnsv auecn. was civen a hearing on a l"c y lroul lIle cuy
grand lareenv charge preferred against square in Barre as soon as they appeared
h..r bv firan'd Juror William Wisliart. shortly after 5 o'clock, each machine be-
Atty. R. A. Hoar represented the woman ""J decorated with the "Barre Board of ,
and after the evidence was in Actincr Ml(le oanner. Jjy 7 : JO all the cars had
Magistrate A. A. Sargent decided that reached South Royalton, being parked in
there was enoinrh of it to hold the re- lne village common, around wnich een-
spondent for county court. Failing to tPr the business life of the community,
secure surety of $sbo, the gvpsv oueen The Congregational church building,
w.nt, to the countT in remain until which was to be the place for the re-
Si otemher iresnment or tne inner man, iooks out ,
( I I : A ti ' ! 1 '
Frank I.acroix of Montpelier, who u" l"e ""'"""' Mvcr lurnmneu
claimed that Iona relieved him of a roll l. .er Ior lne fathering oi zo peo-
f bill, which l,e bnH cn..pd in a I Pe w'no were served supper.
.tncWimr wa. th nrincim, witn- for But first the Barre guests were direct.
the state, and Mrs. Bennett and Chief e. 10 lne noiei on an opposite corner or ;
Sinclair did the testifying for the de- ne common, inai nosre.ry navmg neen
thrown open for the accommodation of ,
SAW A SUBMARINE.
Crew of Liner Thinks Vessel Was the
Deutschland.
by the prosecution. -Events narrated by th8 &TTe PP'6- courtesy that was
TWO MEN INJURED.
Casting Fell on Pressman and Log Rolled
on Lumber Worker.
St. Johnsburv, Aug. 18. Ray B. Pack
ard, a pressman in the St. Johnsbury
Caledonian office, suffered a broken thigh
yesterday while assisting in instilling a
new press. The accident was caused by
heavy casting tailing on hi in.
Charles Rollins of Waterford was in
ured while loading logs near his home
yesterday. A log rolled on his leg. in
flicting a fracture. He was taken to
Brightlook hospital where it -was stated
that amputation might be necessary.
Chicopee, Mass., Aug. IS. Joseph Ste
fanik, aged 37, was caught under 26 feet
of sand when a well in which he was dig
ging caved in about 6 o'clock last night
on his farm here. He was left for dead
about 10 o'clock, after unsuccessful at
tempts had been made to rescue him.
Stefanik was working with his brother-in-law,
Anthony Mamshka, on the
well on his place near the Connecticut
Valley tobacco farm. Ho was at the bot
tom of the well when the sides suddenly
caved in, catching him helplessly at the
bottom. Chicopee police officers wrre no
tified and they with a number of other
men made an effort to dig down to Ste
fanik. It waa Impossible, however, to hold
back the bnlging walls, and when the i
HUGHES ENTERS CALIFORNIA
Will Try to Mend Breach Between Re
publicans and Progressives.
San Francisco. Cal., Aug. IS. Charles
E. Hughes entered California from the
north to-day with a program of speech
making, entertainment and conferences
head of him that promised one of the
most strenuous periods of his western
rip. Interest centered in the big public
meeting to-night. Arrangements for the
meeting developed a conflict between Re
publican and Progressive leaders. Hughes
is trying to mend tho breach between
the two factions.
Boston, Aug. IS. The sighting of a
large submarine believed to be the Ger
man merchantman, Deutschland, off the
Grand Banks last Saturduy morning was
reported by members of the crew of the!rP?s
arren line oachem which arrived last
night from La, Pallice, France and Liver
pool. The submersible was traveling in
a northearly direction at moderate speed.
Wallace Potter of Lynn, electrician of
the Sachem, said that those aboard the
liner saw the under craft plainly at a
distance of from three to four miles.
Soon after the submarine waa sight
ed the steamer was turned toward her,
the Sachem's officers believing at first
she was a dismasted vessel. A few min
utes later the submarine dove and was
not seen again.
Captain Ritchie of the Sachem said
he was off duty when the incident oc
curred.
The quartermaster, John Mahon, said
that on her second day out from France,
the Sachem was pursued for eight miles
by two submarines, said to be of German
nationality. The Sachem was speeded up
to 14 knots an hour and succeeded in
keeping out of danger until British pat
rol boats came to the rescue and fired
several shots. The result was not
known.
Liicroix and Mrs. Bennett were alleged to
have occurred at Mae Shipnian'a place
one Sunday morning scarcely a fortnight
ago. Bv introducing as exhibits a quan
tity of women's wearing apparel, the
defense sought to show that Lacroix
money went for shirtwaists, stockings,
etc., the complainant having given Iona
carte blanche in her deal with a woman
peddler named Allan, who stopped at
much appreciated because there was ,
great need for the removal of the dust ;
of the five towns intervening between ;
Barre and South Royalton. Supper was
served at 7:30, and the vestrv of tho '
Congregational church was taxed to its :
absolute capacity, while other tables
were set on the lawn. Unfortunately,
many from South Royalton and other
towns could not be served because of the 1
unexpected crush, the sale of tickets be-
iL.. i ...t.:l... t.:i. i
iiji iirii s .- viiuf niuii jima were in proiz- . v. .. .....
nihor rrci. m-v ,rrnr , ,,V i, iru? discontinued early in tne evening.
- " I mi. J ii .
, .. ... . i no Biinnnr 11 u u aurvuii , inner rna ana
thth noAtinr wmn rAMA -ifiJ.,.f pi of the Board of Trade and under
. - I tho rlii.wti.-n nf Xiaa Ala Tin V u-hllu. a
a license and that a man mentioned bv , ... ...- ... " ,
Lacroix furnished the merrymakers with larPe oorps oi men ana women neipers
Hsisiea. i ne iooa was exceneni ana
was thoroughly appreciated by the hungry i
crowd. Considering the size of the gather
ing and the cramped quarters resulting
therefrom, the service was also very
good. During the supper hour Carroll'a
orchestra of Barre, occupying a position
whiskey and beer.
BARRE PEOPLE INVITED.
To Attend the Fanners' Picnic and Field
Day To-morrow.
The Orange and Washington County
PASTOR TO LEAVE ST. ALBANS
TO REGAIN POLAKD
Is Si-id to Be the Purpose of !e Rur
al art.
Witt the Russian Armies n the Cr-&-tral
Runn front. Taeoday, Aug. 13. via,
I'etr-Tad to London, Au 18. The e--n-t'.nued
m-wy of General BrusillofTs two
TO INSPECT SHIPS
To Determine If They Are Armed on En
tering Norwegian Ports.
Berlin, Ang. if. The Norwegian min
ister of justice ba instructed the police
in pcrte to find out whether incoming
merchantmen are arm!, and. in
P"werful movement which gradually ther are. to order an inrevict:on Y?
" tETeicji-rg Korel ud Leraherg, have military aathofitie, My V.e ( Krrse
t-afva fc ka a ut4 effect oa lit sit- "w amnrr.
SEC. REDFIELD IN VERMONT.
Head of Commerce and Labor Depart-
ment at St. Johnsbury.
St. .ohnsbnry, Aug. is. William C.
Redtiehl, secretary of commerce and la
bor, Mrs. Redfield and son, arrived in
St. Johnsbury Thursday afternoon, com
ing from Burlington by automobile.
Thursday evening they were the guests
of Theodore V vail at the Speedwell
farms, Lyndon.
' Secretary Redfield is in town on a mis
sion connected with the fish hatcheries.
which indnfttrv comes under the iloart-
. . 1. ; I t a. c . 1 - . I
ii.ru -nc w.miu luur iff. oi oiciaaiK, mn nf -l,ih ha in the head
tne sand started to roll in on them. It
was decided the risk of burying more
men in the well was too great, and work
was called off for the night.
Stefanik leares a wife and four children.
Rev. F. A. Lendrum Is Going to Church
in Monroe, Mich.
St. Albans, Aug. 18. At a special
meeting of the official board of the Meth
odist Episcopal church held last evening
the resignation of Rev. Dr. F. A. Len
drum, pastor for the past four years,
was received and accepted. Pr. Lendrum
has accepted a call to the church at
Monroe, Mich., in the Detroit Methodist
conference, and next Sunday will prob
ably be his last as pastor of the St. Al
bans church. Dr. I-endrmn previous to
coming to the Vermont Methodist con
ference four years ago, was dean of the
school of theology at Puebla, Mexico,
four years.
Farmers' association are to hold their
annual picnic, and field days at the Ayers
street trotting park to-morrow (Satur
day), Aug. IS. There is to be a meet
ing in Hovvland hall for the ladies at
9:30 a. ni. There will be something do
ing at the trotting park all day. The
Barre band will furnish music in the aft
ernoon and everyone is invited to at
tend. All Barre ladies are invited to
Howland hall in the forenoon.
It is the hope and expectation that the
men and women of Barre will be present
and get acquainted with the visitors and
extend to them all possible courtesies.
Such get-t igether meeings are very ben
eficial to a community.
NEXT TOUR, EAST RANDOLPH
TO GRANT FINAL PAPERS
TALK OF THE TOWN
GIVES WARNING
That Sentiment in United States Is Hos
tile to England's Policy with Ireland.
London, Aug. 1$. Various influences,
particularly England's policy toward Ire
land, are arousing suspicion and resent
ment in the I'nited StUe. saT the Man
chester Guardian in an editorial article,
Checking up the record of alarms re
ceived at the fire station in 1916. Acting
still alarms and general calls is far be
low the average in any similar period of
recent years. Thus far only seven gen
eral alarms haTe been registered since
Session of Naturalixation Court in Mont
pelier Lasting Three Days.
A session of naturalisation court for
granting final papers will be held at the
federal building in Montpelier Aug. 2f.
30 and 31. and as there has not been a
court for this purpose in many months,
it is expected that as many as 200 men
from Barre. Barre Town, Montpelier.
South Ryegate, etc., will appear for final
papers. Judge Howe will preside. On
Barre Board of Trade to Go There Next)
Wednesday Night.
The fifth of the series of the better
acquaintance tours conducted by the
Barre Board of Trade will be held next
Wednesday evening, Aug. 23, and the
pretty little village of East Randolph on
the Barrc-White River Junction route is
to be the objective. Tourists have often
remarked about the tidy appearance of
the lktle villnge of East Randolph, and
Barre people will now have the chance of
becoming acquainted with the people who
have made their village one of the most
attractive on the whole eastern side of
ermont. The distance makes an easy
in the vestibule, played numerous selec
tions and added to the pleasure of the !
evening.
Only a short program of post -prandial
exercises was attempted because of the j
numerous features on the evening's pro
gram, but two attorneys, A. G. Whitham, '
representing South Royalton, and John
W. Gordon, representing Barre, were !
called upon for remarks, each responding
in a happy vein and expressing the mo?fc ,
cordial feelings between the two commu- i
nities.
On the south side of the common ft
screen had been set up for the portrayal
of the views of BarTe and of the granite
industry, and a long list of pictures were
shown, many of the usual Barre views
being omitted to permit of the presenta
tion of landscapes and buildings in and
about South Royalton. This innovation
added greatly to the interest in that fea
ture of the entertainment.
The Barre band occupied a command
ing position in the park and played as
the pictures were inrown on tne screen,
while on the other side of the square a
cement pavement had been thoroughly
cleaned and then covered with moist
sawdust for those who cared to dance. '.
That there were many who did so desiro
was plainly evident after the announce- 1
ment of the opportunity was made be- ;
cause the pavement was filled with one-
steppers, while the space was completely
surrounded by spectators watching ft ,
somewhat novel spectacle of open-air
dancing on a pavement. To the unini
tiated, it should be stated that the pave
ment with the sawdust covering lent it-
run from Barre and the road is. as every- i" readily to tne terpsicnorean an, ana
body knows, one of the best in Vermont.!"1 dancers were disappointed when the
A large crowd is expected to participate.
COMMON DELIVERY SYSTEM.
By St. Albans Mercantile Firms Is Un
der Consideration.
St. Albans, Aug. Within a com
paratively hort time a merchant's co-
musicians had to cover un their instru
ments and leave for home. The last cars
pulled out of South Royalton village for
the homeward run by 10:30 o'clock and
by midnight all Barre people were home,
well pleased with the evening's diversion.
The Officers of the South Royalton ,
Board of Trade are: President. M. A.
Sturtevant; vice-president. A. W. Bo
honnon; secretary (pro tern). Charles
Richardson: treaurer. Perley Belknap.
a..- Ira - .ut t. .-ii i (inprjhvp ,1o hverv sv-tem win oe in er -
- "-"." wi inr ("in i h ill oe - r . . t , , , . . . ' , . . .
held at Hardwick feet in St. Albans. Many of the mer- j Those of the- board w ho assisted included
' chants of the cifv met last evening and 0. H. Flint. I. A. Skinner. F. Sargent. B.
i final consideration to the pro-i Sargent. Charles Woodbury. Walter
OTHER STATES WARNED
'cave ser
'posts! plan of pooling their interests
That They May Be Visited by Infantile 'th matter of makmp deliveries to cus-
itomers. and elected the following ofli-
raraiysis tpiaenuc. I
IVwev. William Cloeston. P. C. ( artr.
Fdward Hope. Fmery Lucia. John Good
rich. Fli Ashley, James Whitney and
Hoyt Kn'ght.
President. H. W. Deming; seere-
AVashbipton. Ang. IS. Warning thatftary. R E. Palmer; treasurer. Augiis
the infantil" paralysis epidemic may ap-i tin Guay; executive committee. H. W.
pear next summer in other states not ! IVniing, G. F. Baker. E. F. Barrett, John
Jan. 1, and the number o telephone gra el y affected now unless drastic Corliw. A. L. Barkyoumb and M. F.
calls r-reived for assistance is eompara-! measures ar taken was given to the na- 'Sullivan.
tivelr small. Three time the firemen ' tional conference of public health by a! Many St. Albans merchant attended
record months without more than two i fecial c.mmiHee named to recommend , the meetine. which was addressed by (was injured in Fairbanks shop Thur
cal'.s of any kind. Where thre wer;vs and moans for it suppression. It jO. P. Benon of Potsdam. N". Y who in . day afternoon when a plank which he
seven alarms from Jan. 1 to Aug. 20 this . recommended tat state health authori- ! stalled such a system w hich has been In n running tfiroueh a planer flew bark
STRUCK BY PLANK.
Louis Carrier Iniored at St. Johnsbury
No Bones Broken.
M. Johnsburv. Aug. IS. Louis Carrier
The facta cannot be ignored, it assorts. vear. there were eighteen in the same ' ties be notified bv uniform health eertifi- successful operation in that town dur- and stnii k him on the bin. He was tak-
for the active co-operation of the United period last Tear. Of tSe seven turned cste of the removal of all children tinker ing the rst fur vr. rerre-enta- en ti h?s home on Railroad street, ier
States will be necessary if lasting peace ,in sine the beginning of lnl5. only ore 1? from epidemic area. Medical super- ;t:ve of the Swanton men Hants was a!s an examination showed that no bone
i to be brought about by the lrag-je of jwas neceery. and that to enbdue a barn iion at the opening of school was rec- jpre--nt. The plan is under consideration - were broken. He wa mfferirur mostly ,
Lberal paeiSc powert of the world. fire on Camp street ear'y in the summer, ommendei. in tht village. froa shock and bruise.
a - -
1
i
