tee owosso times-
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. AUGUST 18, 1916.
NO. 21
County Sunday School Picnlo.
The annual picnic of the County
Sunday School association will be held
at McCurdy park Aug. 31.
Ettate Consists of Claim.
A. J. Tingley of Owosso, has been
appointed administrator of the estate
of his son who was electrocuted on
June 26 while working for an electrical
company at Jackson. The estate con
sists of the claim under the compensa
tion law against the employers.
i mam
Patsy Once Mora.
..Patsy Cavanaugh got off the track
once again Sunday and will have to
suffer for a violation of the Pray law.
He went to Oakley and was to bring
home a bottle of alcohol or two for
eigners, but dropped it on the way. He
: gave them whiskey instead and then
went back Sunday to get more, and
when he came to the home of his friend
r lrs. Ada Ketchum, was profane, and
; ' the .police locked him up and he was
gtyeu a hearing Monday, and an exam
ination set for Wednesday.
New Haven Mine Leases Sold on
Judgment.
The leases held by the New Haven
. Coal Mining Company on 120 acres of
land, the title to one acre and a house,
and its interest in the railroad from
Owoss to the mines, was sold Tuesday
on a judgment obtained by Lee Ott
through his attorney Warren Pierpont,
last spring. The judgment more than
covers the value of the company's hold
ings. , Every Member Canvass.
Plana for an every member can
: vass, to tak"e place in this city among
the members of the First Methodist
Episcopal church on Sunday after
noon, August 27, between two and
five o'clock, were formulated Mon
day evening, during a meeting at the
church building of the executive
board of the church.
It was decided to form teams of
two men each among thirty or forty
men. These teams will go by auto
'mobile to the homes of the church
members In this . city and secure
' 'pledges for ' the coming year, the
money to be used In defraying the ex-
, penses of the church during the next
twelve months.
Seriously Injured.
Delbert Butts, an employee of the
Malleables p'ant, wa? seriously injured
Saturday when the bicycle he was rid-
ing coliided with a motorcycle riden by
Fred Bartel employed at the Welch
elevator. Both men live at Middletown
and were on their way to work when
the accident happened. Both were on
t the left side of the street, and as Bartel
sounded a warning to pass Butts, the
latter swung to the right but swerved
back to the left and was knocked to
the ground, striking on his head and
' rendering him unconscious with blood
'coming from his none and ears He
was taken home and It was found he
had suffered concussion of the brain,
but be is slowly recovering from the
. effects of the fall.
Bentley-DeCann.
A pretty wedding was solemnized
Wednesday morning when Miss Faith
Bentley, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Geo.
Bentley, Corunna avenue, was united
- In marriage to Clarence DeCann. Rev.
M. DeVoist, uncle of the groom, and
pastor of the Free Methodist church at
Lans'ng, performed the ceremony in
the presence of relatives and friends of
the "young couple. Miss Winnie De
Voist played the bridal march.
Mr. and Mrs. DeCann left on a wed
ding trip to Niagara Falls and Toronto,
, Ont., and will be at home at 723 Grand
' avenue, in about two weeks. The bride
has been employed at Woodard's fac.
' tory for the past four years and the
. groom was formerly employed as book-
keeper at th Ann Arbor offices.
i
Wants Divorce After Nearly Forty
Years.
Corunna, Aug. 11. Albert J. Aldrich
now of Wentworth township, Livings
ton county, has begun suit for divorce
against Alice M.' Aldrich. whom he
. married on Nov. 2, 1879. He charges
cruelty and desertion.
Aldrich asserts In his bill of com
plaint, filed by W. J. Parker, that in
1913 he was driven from home and has
not been allowed to return since. He
eays that he turned over to his wife a
' general stock at Vernon worth 1500,
and all of their household goods val
ued at 1000. He went to Wentworth
township and started in business again.
The Aldrichs have six; children, all
. but one of them grown. Aldrich says
that his pon, Fr I). Aldrich, remained
with his mother, and that on numerous
occasion when he, the father, attempt
ed to affect a rconcilllatIon with bis
wife, his sonr interfered and abased bin?,
s being upheld In it by his mother. .
DRUMMERS TO PICNIC
Owosso Council No. 218 of the United
Commercial Travellers will be joined
by Saginaw Council in a grand picnic
and celebration at McCurdy park, Sat
urday. Music, games, sports and heaps
to eat and drink, with dancing and
story telling will fill. a big program.
ASKS $20,000JFOR INJURY
Edward Armstrong Sues Ann Arbor
For Loss of Arm.
Corunna, August . 16. Edward
Armstrong, former brakeman em
ployed by the Ann Arbor railroad
Co., Wednesday filed a suit for $20,-
000 in circuit court against the rail
road, through his attorney, George
E. Pardee of this city.
Armstrong, who is thirty years old
and who has a wife and several chil
dren living here, sustained injuries
in the rallrcad yards at Ann Arbor
on March 28, last, which necessitated
the amputation of his right arm.
The brakeman was walking beside
a moving train and stepped upon a
nearby track. 'A car was shunted rap
idly down the track upon which he
was walking and he was struck.
Armstrong claims that the railroad
employes who shunted the car were
negligent in causing it to be operated
too rapidly.
Naw Postmaster Monday.
H. Kirk White, recently appointed
postmaster for this city, received his
commission Thursday evening and will
enter upon his new duties Monday.
mm i
Automobile Mail Service.
Eugene D. Yonng proposes to give
the patrons on his route the best possi
ble seryice and to that end will use an
automobile in delivering mail when
ever the roads will permit, being the
first of the city letter carriers to use a
machine. Heretofore he has used a
horse. This change will result in
quicker seivice for the several manu
facturing plants and business concerns
which he serves. "Tony" is to be com
mended for his enterprise.
m m
Spoke For Diekema.
Gerrit J. Diekema, candidate for
governor subject to the action of Inn
Republican voters at the primary Aug.
29th, was announced to tour Shiawassee
county on Monday in the interest of
his candidacy. Unfortunately he
sprained bis ankle the last of the week
and was unable to get here. In his
stead Congressman McLaughlin of
Muskegon, and Hon. N. J. Whelan,
former speaker of the house of repre
sentatives, came and epoke at several
towns about the county. Both these
gentlemen gave excellent talks to rather
small crowds at most of the stops.
They urged support for Mr. Diekema
on the ground that he was the best
qualified man for the position on ac
count of his long experience and
Interest in the affairs of his native
state, his unswerving determination to
do what was right and because of
insistence that the affairs of Michigan
can be more economically handled if
the budget system advocated by him
is adopted. Both the gentlemen took
occasion to give a strong enndorsement
to the national ticket and Congressman
McLaughlin referred several times to
the efficiency and worth of Cong.
Fordney, whom he declared should be
retained in congress as long as he was
willing to serve.
Vicious Foreigner Held.
Corunna, August 16 Martin Vav
ra, the, foreigner arrested some time
ago on a serious charge, was bound
over to the circuit court, Wednesday,
following an examination in Justice
court here. Vavra is alleged to havo
committed an offense against his
daughter, a fourteen-year-old child.
Vavra is held In Jail, owing to his
failure to furnish ball of $1,500.
New Equipment for Postoffice.
As the result of the recent inspection
made by Major W. Haverstick, inspec
tor of U S. government buildings, the
post office in this city is to be supplied
with new standard rural routing cases
to conform with tbe other furniture In
the building and individual electric fix
tures will probably be installed for each
case. The latter improvement will light
the work room better and at a less
maintenance cost
Commenting upon tbe fact that Con
gressman Fordney will go to Maine to
take part in tbe state campaign pre
ceding the election on September 11,
the Greenville Independent says: "Con
gressmen Fordney is recognized as one
of the Republican leaders of the house,
and for the good of his party has ac
cepted the draft and will leave the pri
mary campaign in this district to his
friends to look after while he is away in
Maine. Surely his interest will not
suffer here while he is away."
SUSPEND ORDERS TO
MOVE TROOPS TO BORDER
Danger of Railroad Strike Caused
Change in Plans.
Orders were given the last of tbe
week to move the remaining mobilized
national guard to the Mexican border,
but they were rescinded Tuesday be
cause of the danger of a strike of rail
road employees all over the country,
and It was thought unwise not to have
some guardsmen to preserve order in
case of trouble or to guard trains or
operate trains carrying mail.
Jury for September Term.
The following jurors were drawn
Wednesday by the county clerk for
the September term of circuit court.
August iSchuknecht, Bennington;
E. D. Wiltse, Burns; Robert Whltte-
more, Caledonia; George Schaar, J.
Schaar, Charles Coon, Corunna; A.
E. White, Fairfield; Fred Waldle,
Hazelton; Grant Swarthout, Middle
bury; Ray Jones, New Haven; Chas.
Bush, Owosso township; Albert Brit-
tson, Jacob Relff, Charles Graham,
Frank Hanson, Charles Beehler,
Owosso; Oliver Wallace, Perry; M.
W. Jones, Rush; George Bruno, Shi
awassee; Clyde Austin, Sclota; Ar
thur Phelps, Venice; Charles Paine,
Vernon; Clarence Beers. Woodhull; E
D. Curtis, Antrim; L. W. Lefflngwell,
Bennington; John S. Smith, Burns;
Aha Sutton, Caledonia; Edward Mor
rison, Corunna.
The Jury will report on Septem
ber 6.
HON. WASHINGTON GARDNER
Candidate for Governor Will Speak
at County Fair. Thursday, Aug.
24th Splendidly Equipped
for Any Position.
No one has to vouch for the Republi
canism of Hon. Washington: Gardner,
patriot, soldier, preacher, statesman,
business man, leader in the civic affairs
of his home city and a commanding
figure in the life of Michigan. His
career is known. to all: Soldier in the
civil war at the age of 10 years; shot
down on the battle line at 19; college
graduate at 25; later graduate from law
school; practiced law several years; then
entered the Methodist ministry and
later became a member of the faculty
of Albion college. While filling tbe
latter position he was appointed with
out solicitation on his part to tbe office
of secretary of State by Gov. John T.
Rich, and was later twice elected to
the position by very large majorities.
During his term of office he was
nominated and elected representative
in congress from the third district,
filling this responsible position for
twelve years, and for ten of these years
was a member of tbe important com
mittee of appropriations. At the close
of his service in congress he was ac
corded the high honor of a public
dinner given by the leading citizens of
Washington and attended by tbe Presi
dent and many of the notable men of
congress. In referring to his work as a
member of the appropriations com
mittee one of his associates on tbe
committee said:
"Mr. Gardner has never inserted in
an appropriation bill a single item to
gratify a friend or to win the applause
of the thoughtless No man In Wash
ington owes him a Thank You for a
special favor. I bear witness to the
sterling qualities of this man. His
honestry, infinite patience and intelli
gent applicatlou are too unworthily
recognized by any mere public dinner.
In giving this slight token of respect,
we feel that we honor ourselves more
than we do him." j
In September, 1914, by the unanimous j
yote of 1099 delegates representing
every state in the Union he was un
animously chosen as Commander-in-Chief
of the Grand Army of the Re
public and while serving in that posi
tion won signal honors for his work.
He is now chairman of the committee
on national, legislation of that organi
zation. .
His entire life work has fitted him to
fill with very great honor the governor
ship of Michigan and his nomination
would be a credit to the party he
represents.
A. M. Bentley and Judge S. S. Miner
are enjoying a stay at Washington
Harbor, Isle Royale, having reached
there on Thursday evening of last week
after a lake trip touching several points
en routs to Duluth. Mr. Bentley writes
that the temperature thi.e during our
hot weather ran from 80 to 83 during
the day and from 43 to 60 at night;
that it is a great place to sleep, eat, fish,
lounge and rest and that the boating
is fine. He also said thit he already
feU 100 pr cent better and that Judge
Miner ii hapr.
WANTS $5,000
Mrs. Zelma Richards Thinks William
Strauch Has Injured Her
Reputation.
The declaration in the suit for f 3,000
damages begun some time ago by Mrs.
Zelma Richards, who lives near Du
Jandf against Win. Strauch, prominent
Vernon farmer, has been filed. Mrp.
Richards claims Strauch made im
proper advances to her and when ehe
spurned them he chased her about the
house. She claims also that Strauch
spread the report the she enticed him
into making the advances in order to
sue him. 1
FINE RACES NEXT WEEK
Best Entry List Ever Secured Prom
ises Good Spcrt for the Many
Thousands at the Fair.
The list of entries for the horse races
at the Shiawassee County Fair next
week Aug. 22 to 25 is the largest
ever secured for a rare meeting in the
connty, and every class in both trotting
and running races will be well filled
with horses that are fast and well
trained. Horses from the Saginaw
and Ionia races this week will practi
cally all be shipped here Saturday.
Most everybody loves a race and will
have an opportunity to see tbe best
next week.
SLEEPER TO SPEAK AT FAIR.
Albert K. Sleeper of Bad Axe, one
of the Republicans of the state with
gubernatorial aspirations, has writ
ten Secretary Dowling of the fair as
soclation that he would speak at the
fair grounds on Governor's day, Aug
ust 34, during the county fair.
The Canadian government has re
served 250 eauare feet of Floral Hall
spac for a fine exhibit of products of
Canadian soil at next week's fair and
will doubtless be a most Interesting
exhibit.
The Michigan Employment institu
tion for the blind at Saginaw has re
Eery.ed40( square feet of space for
its interesting industrial exhibition
of its blind artisans deftly making
brooms ana weaving rugs. A car
load of machinery and material has
been shipped and their carpenters
will arrive Saturday to Install the
machines and complete arrangements
Every available foot of space in Flor
al hall is now taken.
W. Dowling was at the Ionia fair
Wednesday and arranged for two
Arms Horse Palace cars to bring
about thirty head here Saturday at
the close of the Ionia fair.
East Main street has been oiled to
tbe fair ground and will be a great
help In keeping down the dust.
NEWS FROM CAMP.
Camp Ferris, Grayling, August 16
Announcement Tuesday that the
movement of troops to the Mexican
border has been Indefinitely postpon
ed caused a feeling of unrest and im
patience among the guardsmen and
It Is expected that there will be an
Increase In the number absent with
out leave.
Major Wells announced that he
had received instructions from the
war department, asking tnat an
troop movements be suspended until
further instructions. No reason for
the order was given by the war de
partment, although the belief Is that
the National Guardsmen are being
held at the mobilization centers,
pending the settlement of the differ
ences between the railroads and
their employes.
There are thirty absent without
leave from the Thirty-third Michi
gan infantry. Five of these left on
Tuesday. Several were reported away
from the auxiliary troops, Including
three men from Ambulance Company
Nc. 1 of Detroit. Walter Knight, a
private In this organization has been
absent ten days and will be prosecut
ed on n charge of desertion. None of
those absent from the Thirty-third
has been gone ten days.
Following were denied discharges:
Company K, Cheboygan, Private
William Monghan, Private Louis
Lond; Company M, Sault Ste. Marie.
Irvine Miller; Company L. Menom
inee, August Schwartz; Company II,
Owosso, Private Roy Smith.
i 'i mm
The clyic committee of the Improve
ment Association is endeavoring to
work out some plan for the general
Improvement of tbe river front throngh
the ciiy and the cleaning -out of tne
rubbish which has been thrown Into
the river. The committee had a very
natisfactory interview with the City
Commission Monday evening bnt did
not receive a promise of any support
this year as no money was included in
the city budget for the work desired.
The committee may attempt some work
later on through local donations and
thus be able to clean up the most uc
sightly places. N
Use Relief Fund For Proper Purposes
The Improvement Association at the
the luncheon Tuesday, voted against!
the expenditure of any more of the
funds raised for the relief of soldiers'
families for the mess fund of Company
H. Announcement was made that the
swimming pool at the armory had been
opened and that Wednesday of each
week will be set apart as ladies' day,
when wen and boys will not be ad
mitted to the building. Also that
arrangements hid been practically
comp eted for a competent woman to be
present dnring the day and that for a
nominal fee swimming instruction
would be given. The opening of the
pool was made possible by the gift of
$50 by A. M. Bentley toward the ex
pense of the janitor service and main
tenance for the first month.
DIEKEMA SENDS MESSAGE
Gerrit Diekema, one of the candi
dates for the Republican nomination
for governor, has written an open
letter to Shiawassee county Republi
cans in which he expresses regret at
being unable to speak here last Mon
day night and sets forth his platform
The letter is as follows:
I cannot tell the people of Shiawas
see county how great my disappoint
ment was In not being able to ad
dress them as planned last Monday,
and I therefore, take the liberty to
ask the press of the county to permit
me to say througn its columns some
of the things which I desired to speak
to the people about.
I wanted to tell them that my am
bition to be governor of Michigan
was not a selfish one, but was an am
bition to be of service to the people
and to give to them the benefit of
more than twenty-five years of ex
perience in local, state and national
government. I want to throw onto
the scrap heap much of the present
machinery of state government which
has outlived its usefulness, and for
which new and up-to-date machin
ery should be substituted. , I wanted
to tell the people about the budget
system, which If enacted Into law,
will, I believe, save the people in the
state taxes at least two minions i of
uiMiuio minus u Biugie uuiiiiiusua
tlon. The present method of making
appropriations has long since outliv
ed its usefulness. It has no scientific
basis and does not conform to meth
ods used in large private business en
terprises. V (to not hold the members
of the legislature fesponsible for the
enormous increase in state taxes dur-
Ing the past ten years. I hold the
system responsible. The budget
a.ratnn ...111 4 .l 1. Jnn.U V, 1 ... 4l
DJOICJU VVJU SLIllYt) U UfU in U1UW iu i
log-rolling, trading, bartering and!
petty politics. 'No one who has not
studied the possibilities of the bud
get system as a tax-reducing, money
saving agency can realize all of its
meaningful possibilities. The people
must be educated and aroused. This
great reform will only come when
the people demand It, and I feel that
I have at least rendered my state a
service in arousing me people to me t
needs of a modern business system in
stato government. i
I wanted to tell the people of Shla-
wassee county that I had not made a
single promise of an appointment to
any man in Mfchigan; that If elected ,
governor I would be able to use my ,
best judgment in selecting appointees j Hon. Harry L. Woodward of Parkers
for their integrity , and efficiency. ; burg, W. Va., who formerly served In
Such men as could and would give congress has been renominated by the
Michigan a business administration.
I wanted to tell your people tnat
in conducting my campaign I am
keeping strictly within the law and
am not violating the corrupt prac
tices act by the posting of litho
graphs along the streets and high
ways or the placing of them in show
windows. That through my friends
and my own efforts I r.m making an
r.ppeal to judgment and reason and
not to cupidity, passion or prejudice
That I do not believe the governor-
ship of this great state is for sale, and
that if It were 1 would not oe a pur-(
closer That no candidate for gov-j
ernor had ever yet succeeded in
Michigan by cash register method
and that a candidate for governor
who came Into any county with a
check book in one hand and a foun-
taln pen in the other would so offend
the moral sense or tne good peopio
thr.t he would soon find his candi-
dacy to be hopeless.
I actually believe that the next
... . . ... .
governor or iwicnigan win nave
creater opportunity to be of real and
lasting service to tne people than has
been afforded any governor since the
days of the great Austin Blair, and I
believe that he should je a man with
the necessary courage and will pow- will be held at the Union church'.'two'
cr to establish the great business re- miles east of Henderson, on Thurs
form above outlined, and that he day. August 24.
should havo the ability to arouso the All morning trains will be met at
people to action by lucid and force- Henderson by (commIttecs to escort -ful
explanation of his program from .the home comers to the scene of the
the platform and stump. frrtivitlcs. It is expected that a largo
These are a few of the things number of people from all parts of
which I would so much like to have the state will attend the meeting,
discussed with your people and 1 on- Anna Swartzmiller of 600 Alger ave
ly hope that the opportunity may be nue this city, is secretary-treasurer
afforded me later . on. of the pioneer association. ,
Washington Letter.
Washington, Ang. 15 (Special cor-
responderce.) Tbe Democrats are ud
in the air in tbe Senate on the irnmi-
, Kraon bill. The fact that the Presi-
dent is opposed to the measure and
wants it put over until the next session
of Congress, has caused several Demo
cratlc candidates for the Senate a great
deal of anxiety. The fact that the Re
publicans will attempt to tack the bill
in its entirety on the child labor bill,
has disconcerted the administration
Senators. This measure is one of great
public interest and has almost the solid
support of the Republican members of
the upper branch. Senator Gallinger
has always been strong for the bill and
is one of the Republican leaders who is
forcing the Democrats to action at
present on this proposition. The Dem
ocrats in caucus acceeded to the wishes
of the President and voted to postpone
it nntil the next session, but the Repub
llcxns propose to put them on record
and will force a vote at this session, if
possible.
A prominent citizen of Maine was a
recent guest of one of the Republican
congressmen from that state. Speaking
of the outlook there he said: "If I can
judge anything from the way people
are talking, the Democrats are due for
an awful jolting down in Maine In
September. Practically all of tbe Pro
gressives are back in the fold. There
are not enough left for a coroner's jury.
With a united party, I look for a clean
sweep from one end of the state to tbe
other. I feel confident that all four of
the congressional districts will be again
Republican. The second district now
represented by Congressman McGilll
cudy will return a Republican. We
shall elect both United States senators.
That's the way tbe people talk down in
Maine."
Representative James T. Lloyd o?
Mis ouri, one of the veteran members
of the House, a Democrat In politics
and a former chairman of the Demo
cratlc Congressional committee, is not
very optimistic about Missouri. He
gave the other members of the delega
tion cold shivers when he stated pub
j ,dy thafc tnere j8not 1,000 difference
between the Republican and Demo
cratic votes of that state. While ha
states that he thought the Democrats
might carry Missouri, his words were
not tinged with enthusiasm and appar-
ently were not filled with great hope.
( Coining from such a source it is little
wonder that the Democrats are alarmed
about that state.
Gen Q. C. Pinsrree of Pitrahnra.
i Kans., a friend and constituent of Rep
" ----- n9
resentative "Phil" Campbell of Kansas,
was a recent visitor to the national cap
ital. Speaking of the outlook in that
state he said: "Kansas will give 80,003
for tbe Republican national ticket and
I think that figure is conservative.
There Is no Progressive party left in
our state. It is united with Republi
cans and that means an overwhelming
vote for our ticket in Noverai,er.
Hughes is a popular idol in Kansas and
f. naM, a . . . . .
. , r . , ,
. Z , . ,
8ettled !t- 1 am of the PInion tbat aa
Kansas is going so Jis going the coun-
iry-
Renublicans in the fourth district, of
that state. He was a recent visitor at
the capltol, and speaking of the situa
tion in his state he said: "I have been
campaigning all over my district for
some time. I havj come in contact with'
the people. I have not the slightest
aouoi aooui woac is going to nappen in
our state In November. Hna:hes and
Fairbanks will win by a substantial
majority. Our state is in favor of pro-
tectlon. I look for a big gain iu the
congressional delegation."
m
Quarterly Conferance.
1110 ,ast quarterly conference of
l-'1R i' irsi .uemou-si episcopal cnurcn
1,1 " city win be neid at the church
OI inurr-cxay, August ine eiec-
tlon of officers and the reading of re-
h- lOBD
Paco- Kev- vv- "aidwin or Flint,
.supenuieiiaem 01 mis .wemoaisi ais-
presme.
Tlin fldpnl VOI f fn tViA Ahnrnk In
" w.tn vuuu.iu
thIa cV-v ends August 21.
New Haven Pionaera
The fourth annual pioneer home-
coming of New Haven district No 2,
