'S
The Greatest Story Ever Told—
Mt. Advertiser, is the story of
what you offer the public in ex­
change for their money* Use* The
Lkbor World to tell your story*.
VOL. 24, NO. 20
DENVER, Colo., Dec. 28.—Denver
Theatrical Stage Employes union No,
7, has just signed a new wage scale
"With all the theater managers of this
city, which brings to the members of
this organization an increase ranging
from $2.50 to $5 per jveek of six
days.
This agreement was reached
through a series of amicable confer­
ences between a committee of the
union and a like committee of the
theater managers.
WANT STATE-MADE
TEXT BOOKS
STRAND READY FOR TRIAL
TACOMA, Wash., Dec. 28.—Union
printers are arousing public opinion
in favor of public school text books
being made in this state.
DEATH IN THE MINES.
HARRISBURG, Pa., Dec. 28.—
turing the first nine months of the
current year 333 men were killed and
6,958 other workers disabled for pe­
riods greater than 14 days in the an­
thracite mines of this state.
PITTSBURG,' Kan., Dec. 28.—
Twenty-seven miners were killed and
seven injured in an explosion in the
Reedy & Ryan coal mine, near this
city. With one exception, this is the
greatest loss of life in the history of
Kansas coal mining. Forty men were
killed in 1889 in a mine explosion at
Frontenac.
N.^YV YORK, Doc. 28.—At last, in
America, Jack is every inch a sailor,
and is no longer a chattel slave. T&e
twentieth annual convention of. the
International Seamen's union, of
America, which has just closed an
historic session in New York City
celebrated this fact, by sending to
Prcsid-.-t Wilson, as its first official
act, the following telegram of con\
gratulations:
"The International Geamen's
Union of America, in twentieth
annual convention assombled,
-ends best wishes and heartiest
congratulations upon your re­
election.
"For the first time in. history
the seamen of America are now
meeting as freemen. With your
own good self at the helm for
four yearu more we. feel confi­
dent of cur ability to demon­
strate to all America that ..the
^Seamen's Act, to which you af
fixed your signature, stand* first
Ifor human freedom, second for
greater safety of, liffi at sea, and
Sheriff Nelson and Deputies Disqualified by Judge
Dancer.
Hinted That County Attorney Is Co-operating With
Administration Enemies to Hold Trial Off
Until After Legislature Convenes.
Sheriff Nelson of Lake county and all his deputies have been
disqualified from participating in the drawing of the special venire
of jurors to sit in the case of Mayor E. G. Strand of Two Harbors.
Judge Dancer signed an order, to this effect, following a motion
made by Mr \Strand's attorneys. Charges had been made that the
grand jury which indicted Mr. Strand and Former Mayor Towl were
selected almost entirely from company Employes. Scrutiny'of the list
of grand jurors bears out this claim, for all but a very few of the 22
men on the grand jury were connected in some way with the Duluth
& Iron Range Railway company, or else decidedly unfriendly to the
Socialist administration.
Mr. Strand called on the editor of The Labor World this week.
He tells us he has been ready to proceed to trial for the past three
days, but for some reason the county attorney h^s seen fit to pass up
the Strand case and try two or three small election cases instead.
These cases involve the peddling of literature on election day or
other minor offenses.
Mayor Strand was elected to the Minnesota legislature by the
people of his district. The legislature meets January 2, and the fact
that the county attorney seems inclined to put the Strand case off
from time to time lends support to the claim of the friends of Mayor
Strand, that County Attorney Jelle is lining up with the administra­
tion enemies in holding off the trial until after the legislaure con
venes in order to pave the way to contest the right of Mr. Strand to
sit as a member of that body.
In any event, the legislature meets next week Mr. Strand has
been ready to go to trial for the past few days, and for some reason
best known to himself, County Attorney Jelle prefers to postpone the
Strand case which is precisely what the political enemies of Mayor
Strand want Jell« to do.
Two and two generally make four.
New Schedule Agreed to In Con­
ference Between Union Offi­
cials and Managers.
W.F.OFMJS
E
Is Now International Union of
Mine, Mill and Smelter
Men.
The historic Western Federation of
Miners has changed its title and is
now the International Union of Mine,
Mill and Smelter Workers.
Thus passes one of the historic
names in the world of organized
lsibpr. The change was approved by
the American Federation of Labor
convention at Baltimore a few weeks
ago.
The change was ir.ade because the
Western Federation is no longer
western, but has organizations even
in Atlantic seaboard states. When
the Western Federation was organ­
ized it was purely a Rocky Moun­
tain organization. It now has be­
come national, and, therefore, wished
to drop a title that indicated a sec­
tional organization.
The Western Federation of Miners
has figured largely in some of the
most dramatic struggles of the last
quarter century. Of these the Moyer,
Haywood and Pettibone trials prob­
ably were the most conspicuous.
The American Federation of Labor
approved the change in the title
when assured that the change meant
no attempt to extend jurisdiction
into fieldfc-of labor belonging to other
organizations.
STOGIE MAKERS (SAIN.
WHEELING, W. Va., Dec. 28.—
Stogie makers have won their strike
for a wage increase of $1 per thous­
and in all the local factories except
the two plants controlled by the Pol­
lack concern.
last but not least for equality of
opportunity for the American
ship and the American ship
owner.
ANDREW FURU3ETH."
President Wilson's answering let­
ter of thanks and best wishes was
read to a con\-ntion of forty-five
delegates, representing 100 per cent
mere union seamen than there were
in the service of American chips one
year ago and before the new law
went into effect.
The prophecy of Andrew Furu
seth, president of the union, able
seamen, and a survival of the old
Vikings, is cor..:..j true: "The Amer­
ican sailor golpg back to the sen
and he is going back a free man."
Just ~'hat that means, in its many
ways, to the United States and to the
internationalism of the Seven Seas
was briefly indicated in statements
made to the Committee on Industrial
Relations by Paul Scharrenberg, "edi­
tor of thi Coast Seamen's Journal of
San Francisco and a delegate to the
conv^ntion,\and was set forth in the
Collections Still Outstanding For
Benefit of Stage Hands'
Families.
Members of the Duluth local of
the stagehands' union, who have
charge of the fund of $1,526 which
was raised through a theatrical per­
formance given at the Grand theater
last October for the benefit of the
widows of the late John (Kelly)
Pendergast and Edward J. Lorent
zon, who were drowned near Mc­
Gregor while duck hunting,, have de­
cided that the local union will give
each widt^w $50 a month from the
fund subscribed by Duluthians in
general for their benefit..,
So far Mrs. Lorentzon has received
two checks of $50 each while Mrs.
Pendergast has received nothing.
Committees that have waited on her
have reported to the union that she
says she is not in need, as yet, having
received ?200 from two local lodges
of which her husband was a mem­
ber.
J. L. Morrissey, manager of thQ
Lyceum theater, said that there ar^
still some collections to be made
w,hich will be turned over to the
fund. Some of the people who took
tickets to sell have not yet brought
back either the money or the tickets.
He says that in one instance a mem­
ber of the union took ten tickets and
has not yet reported.
EIGHT-HOUR DM
Pro Rata Time For Overtime
Granted by Arbitration
Board.
NEW YORK, Dec. 28.—The eight
hour day with straight pro rata time
for overtime is granted to the Switch­
men's union by the Federal arbitration
board in a decision today in the
switchmen's controversy with the rail­
roads. The award gives an, increase
of 5 cents per hour for both foremen
and helpers.
"This decision in the switchmen's
controversy with railroads has an im­
portant bearing on the Adamson l&w,"
it was stated here today by an official
spokesman for the conference com­
mittee of managers of the railroads.
"It does not O. K. the Adamson act,
in our opinion. The Adamson legisla­
tion gave the men ten hours pay for
eight hours of work, or an increase of
about 25 per cent in wages. The
award today gives the switchmen only
nine hours pay for eight hours of
work, or between 13 and 16 per cent
increased wages. We get a great deal
of satisfaction out of this award."
Pleased With Decision.
It was pointed out on behalf of the
roads that they were pleased with
what was alluded to as the switchmen
arbitration board's liberal exposition,
in its document filed in the Federal
court, of the road's argument as ad­
vanced during the hearing here.
Nearly all of the road's contentions
were emphasized, it was declared.
AMERICAN SEAMEN TO
The meetings between the confer­
ence committee of managers and the
brotherhood chiefs to discuss the Ad­
amson act have been held in abeyance
pending the settlement of the switch­
men's demands. With this controversy
out of the way, it was stated by rail­
road officials today, the Adamson con­
ferences will be resumed after Christ­
mas. It was said, however, that the
situation probably will remain in
status quo until the United States su­
preme court has determined the con­
stitutionality of the Adamson
act.<p></p>GRATEFUL
report of T. A. Hanson, International
Secretary of the Seamen.
Benefits Already Shown.
"Everybody connected with the
sea trades hc.t be^n ~:nefited im­
mensely already," said M.r Scharren­
berg, "except the American investor
in foreign ships whose interest was
to drive American ships and sailors
from the seas and to keep all sail­
ors in i. -ry .rid porj/slaves, sub
juct to be run down and captured
and turned over to sl^ve chafns if
they dared to exercise the right of
every free man and quit their jobs.
These same investors in foreign ships,
and members of the international
shipping trust, have been the same
ones, by the wa/f who have talked co
loudly about the American flag, and
yet have hired Orientals at, indecent
Wages to the' practical exclusion of
the American seamen.
"The American flag is being re­
stored to the sea, along with the
American sailor, by the Seamen's Act.
Just consider one side advantage
which, this means The merchantman
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, DECEMBER 30,1916.
CHARTER AGAIN HIT BY SUPREME
HAPPENED IN N. Y.
WHY NOT IN DULUTH?
NEW YORK, Dec. 28.—New York
coal 'dealers .dropped the price of
coal from *12 a ton to $9 a ton as
soon as the Evening World began its
demands for a criminal investigation
and they brought it down to $8 when
the criminal inquiry actually began.
The district attorney has enough
questions to ask them to keep them
out of temptation for a while.
GETS $32,000 FOR ARM.
WPITE PLAINS, N. Y., Dec. 28.—
A jury in the supreme court awarded
$32,000 damages to Adam H. Boeder,
of Mt. Vernon, against the Erie and
the New Jersey & New York rail­
roads for the loss of his left arm
while working as a brakeman for
the 'latter railroad. Boeder sued both
corporations for $50,000 damages.
The verdict is a ^record on© for West­
chester county for the loss of an arm.
SHIP CARPENTERS WIN.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 28.—Car­
penters' union No. 1,856 raised wages
2 yz cents an h»our |or its members
employed at the Cramp ship yards,
after a two-days' strike. The Ken­
sington Dry Dock company, a sub­
sidiary of the Cramp concern, raised
wages of its carpenters 3 cents an
hour after a six weeks' strike.
PLASTERERS ORGANIZE.
JOPLIN, Mo., Dec. 28.—Plasterers
have organized and applied for a
charter from the Operative Plaster­
ers* association^ Other crafts that
have recently organized in this city
are the moving picture operators, bill
posters and the lathers.
WASHINGTON, Iec. 28.—In a
statement mad? public last week
United States Senatqj' Borah records
his opposition to all forms of "can't
strike" legislation: "I do not see just
how tfcose who are advocating the
Canadian arbitration law" for this
country, or any law for effective com­
pulsory investigation and arbitration,
are going to get by certain well estab­
lished legal principles," he says.
"There seems to be an impression
that the whole thing is made easy be­
cause we are to deal with a body of
men and not a single Individual. In
other words it is supposed, apparently,
that while you cannot compel an in­
dividual to work or to punish him be­
cause he quits work that you can com­
pel a body of men acting collectively
or as a union to work or punish them
because they agree to quit work. To
say that the concerted action of pow­
erful bodies of men shall not be per­
mitted to stop the industrial process of
the nation does not meet the situation
,at all. It is true, however, that pow­
erful bodies of men acting together
may quit work and may decline to ac­
cept employment and if their quitting
work has the effect of stopping the
operation of trains it is nevertheless
their right to quit.
"A man's constitutional right, either
individually or collectively, cannot be
measured by the amount of injury
which the exercise of his constitutional
right may do to society.
"In my judgment employes have a
right either singly or collectively to
quit work because they are dissatisfied
with their wages or for any other rea­
son which has to do with their welfare
as to sanitary conditions, etc., as work
ingmen. It is just as much an inva­
sion of a man's personal liberty and
just as much in contravention of his
constitutional right to compel him to
remain in the service of another when
he is a member or- acting with his
union as it would be to compel him to
do so if he was acting individually.
Right to Quit.
"It has been decided a number of
times, and in one instance by no lcrs
sailor is the recruit for the nation's
navy. Of the .100,000 or more union
sailors in the Britich merchant fleet3
more than 16,000 are now serving on
the British-men-of-war. America's
necessarily growing navy will 'have
the reserve force for tif-e of need or
the young men trained in the ways of
t"he sea on her merchant vessels and
having the fine spirit and strength
that Lelongs only to free men.
"The American Seamen's Act is
benefiting seamen all the World over"
continued Mr."" Scharrenberg. "As it
applies to the sailors and ships of all
nations that touch American ports,
its result is to make all ship owners
of all 'nations pay the same good
wages and maintain the same good
conditions for health and safety on
the vessels. This equalization re­
lieves the American ship owners of
competition,'of foreign low wages
and of 'fugitive slave laws' for sea-,
men anjl of ijnsafe vessels."
Secretly Hanson'g' Report.
Condensing the benefits of the 4&W*
Sectary Ifansbn's rtport a&erUft:
I
FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE, ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS MINNESOTAXrt.•ftTsfiwwiBE
~Q
Daily Press Gave Prominence to
Indictment All But Ignored
9
Jury's Verdict.
With flaring headlines the daily
papers announced the indictment of
Mayor Strand and former Mayor Towl
of Two Harbors, afid stuck away in
the inside of these same papers was
the announcement .of the acquittal of
Former Mayor Towl by a jury last
week.
It took the jury only fifty-five min­
utes to find Mr. Towl not guilty of the
charges of taking a bribe. The ^abor
World believes that it will take less
time than that for the ju»y to tiring
in a similar verdict in the Strand case.
Dressed as Man, Seeks Job Gets
Cell in Chicago Police
Station.
CHICAGO, Dec. 28.—Mrs. Emily
Miller, 27 years old, was cold and
hungry, so she just put on men's
clothes and w'ent to a coal yard to
get a job. She didn't look much like
a man, so instead of work she got a
cell in police station. She is charged
with disorderly conduct.
I
SENATOR BORAH COMES OUT AGAINST
SOCALLED ANTI STRIKE LAW
an authority than Justice Harlan, late
associate justice^ of the Supreme Cburt
of the United States, tluit a labor
union has a right to confer with refer­
ence to their wages and to determine
as a matter of fact whether they are
satisfied, and if not satisfied as a re­
sult of their Conference, to quit work.
I am speaking now, of course, of the
rights as between the employer and
the employe, omitting entirely the
question of .interference with some one
else operating the train. But as be­
tween the employer and the employe,
the employe has a right either singly
or collectively to quit work, in my
judgment, and under the constitution
of the United States he cannot be de­
prived of that right simply because he
acts collectively. Whatever one party
may do alone he may do in combina­
tion with others provided they have
no unlawful object in view, but the
right to quit on account of unsatisfac­
tory wages can.never be made unlaw­
ful.
"If you can prevent men from act­
ing collectively and as a union in re­
gard to their wages, to their sanitary
conditions and to questions of health,
surroundings and such things, then
you have, of course, destroyed collect­
ive bargaining absolutely and have
found a way by which to inhibit col­
lective action uporuthe part of labor
and it would bp the beginning of the
end of union labor.
Collective Action Needed.'
"Collective bargaining and collect­
ive action both upon the part of capi­
tal and labor are in accordance with
the spirit and principle of the age, and
some other way will be found to ad­
just these matters than that of taking
a backward step and destroying col­
lective bargaining and collective ac­
tion so long as the action is for lawful
purposes.
"I have ne\ser believed that com­
pulsory arbitration was either practic­
able or legal under present provisions
of our constitution, both state and na­
tional.
"The change has been not alone
in improved safety, in the working
conditions and to'some extent in th6
wages of the men, but the whole life
on ship board has been improved,
and instead of the old spirit of bit­
terness and hatred, inevitable, under
the slave laws that held the men,
there is an air of freedom and a
growing recognition of rights and re­
sponsibilities on *the part of everyl
body connected with tlrs ship. It is
certain that after the Seamen's Act
has been in operation another year or
two, that not even the ship owners
will.want to repeal it. Instead, we
will find that all other maritime na­
tions will follow the lead set by the
United States."
The internationalism of the con­
tention was strongly emphasized by
the presence and active participation
in it of delegates from Great Bri­
tain dnd from Japan, relegates B.
Suzuki, of the -latter country, and J.
Hensen of Great Britain arid Ireland,
as well as Richard McGhec, member
of
Parliament, and Harry* Gosling,
1 *1
HISTORICAL!
SOCIETY
Return of Gov, Cox to Power
Alarms Companies Doing Pri­
vate Insurance.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Dec. 28.—As a
result of the election of former Gov.
James M. Cox private liability com­
panies in this state are on their
knees. Two years ago Gov. Cox was
defeated for re-election after he had
jammed through the legislature
workmen's compensation law. Dur­
ing the past two years- the law has
been weakened so that private com­
panies are now writing insurance.
In the last campaign this issue was
pushed to the f~-e by organized labor
and Cox promised that he would
drive the companies out of the state
if re-elected.
The companies are fearful of this
threat, and it is now claimed that
they are willing to retire voluntarily
if no legislation is passed. .They
realize that ouster laws would affect
them in other states
who had been legates from Great
Britain to the convention of the
American -Federation of Laibor, told
of the efforts not only of their re­
spective countries but of all "the for­
eign. countries'* to have similar sea­
men's laws enacted there. A special
bulletin and an attempt to value the
message of these foreign delegates to
the seamen and to the trade union
movement in general' will be issued
soon by the Committee on Industrial
Relations^
As showin? what the merchant sail­
ors of Europe thought of the Amer­
ican Seamen'S Act, the visiting dele­
gates told of the appropriation by
the union of Great Britain of more
than $400 to' help' the American In­
ternational to resist efforts to repeal
the law. They told also of that
union's purpose to contribute con­
stantly if peed be for the upholding
of real manhood liberty on the sea.
Will Help En!oNe Law.
Now td
have
the
administfrei9v
ment
DID YOU KNOW THAT—
Ave union people are on trial for their
T*V» in San Francisco? That strikes arc
FDR THE LABOR WORLD.
TWO
The last time the charter was emasculated was merely the last
time, the Supreme Court got a crack at it.
It was only a little more than a year ago that we were advised
by the Supreme Court that we didn' really want a workable method
for electing our city officials that would automatically let the ma­
jority rule, as we thought we did when we adopted our Home-Rule
charter. Some of our people said then it was all right to have
four judges out-vote 12,313 citizens of Duluth because the preferen­
tial voting system was not .submitted separate from the other pro­
visions of our new commission-form charter, and maybe the people
didn't really want it.
But now we have our referendum section, which was submitted
to the people separately, and before we had any commission-form
charter, crated in a straight-jacket, because—well, because it "is an
extraordinary tower which ought not unreasonably to te restricted
or enlarged by construction."
The "rule of reason" was adopted by the SuprerAe Court of
the United States a few years ago to emasculate some forward-looking
legislation. It has been used by other Federal courts to prohibit
picketing and other methods of promoting the interests of the peo­
ple. A Federal court has recently applied the rule in favor of, not
against, picketing. Brandeis and Clarke may live to apply it on the
Federal Supreme Court in favor of, not against, the people's legisla­
tion.
May not we hope to see the day when our own Supreme Court
will apply the rule in favor of the people so as "not unreasonably"
to "restrict or enlarge by construction" some "extraordinary power'*
which the people of our cities grant "to themselves in their Home
Rule charters?
We only know such law*in the Armory case as we read in the
brief of the city's special counsel. It may have all been bad law, but
we look in vain in the opinion of the court for a reference, not to say
an answer, to the fundamental arguments of the city's brief.
The decision, however, is the law of the state and we have closed
the book.
We congratulate Aad Temple on its victory, and have no doub$
it will make the Old Armory anew temple of civic pride and useful*
ness.
There is. nothing more powerful than a Supreme Court—except
the people whose servant
it is.
Seamen's Act so
through the Depart­
of Commerce,
that its full spirit
CENTS.<p></p>COURT
NOT A HOME RULE CHARTER?
Ask the Supreme Court—It Only Knows. Charter
Emasculated Every Time Supreme
Court Gets Crack At It.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota made another "cleaning" for
the people of Duluth last Friday, when it emasculated {he referen­
dum section.of our Home Rule charter.
Made Possible by Action
Constitutional Con­
vention.
of
QUERET^RO, Mex., Dec. 27.—via
Mexico City, Dec. 28.—The constitu­
tional convention today adopted an
article which makes possible the ex­
istence of labor unions.
In discussing the labor question,
Deputy Cano of Guanajuato made an
attack on American mining companies,
which he characterized as the worst
exploiters of Mexican labor. He asked
the assembly to appoint a commission
for the purpose of requesting Gen.
Carranza to remedy the situation and
compel mining' companies to resume
operations on pain of having their
properties operated by the
govern*
ment.
MACHINISTS WANT MORE.
TORONTO,/ Ont., Dec. 28.—At a
mass meeting of union machinists it
was voted to ask'that wages of tool
makers be increased to 50 cents an
hour and machinists 45 cents. These
workers are nearly 100 per cent or­
ganized.
and letter shall be put into effect is
the great aim of the International as
it was of the convention. The worst
offense against the law and against
the seamen is the slack and truly unn
lawful way in which the Department?
of Commerce, under its present dl
rection, "softens" the language testa
for the crews at. thus still in mans
cases permits vessels to be m«.nne^
by coolies .and by ignorant, income
petent persons who do not under*
stand the uninterpreted, emergence
orders of' their officers. Delegates to|
tb^convention, condemned Eugene 'VU
Chamberlain, Commissioner of NavH
gation, and Gerge C. Uhler, Chief oC
the Steamboat Inspection Bureafi, la^
the Commerce Department, as beln^
responsible direc'.ly, and blamed 8eOH
retary Redfleld as being responsible
at least indirectly, for this violation
and partial negation of the benefit
cent law.
The fast growing strength of the
fast growing International Se&men'sT.
Union of America was pledged
ti»e fight against, these administrai
non-enforcements of the law.
