The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of :y Othep Paper, and Its'- Total - Circulation Is : the"- Largest: in ; Connecticut j in Proportion to the - City's'!' Population.
A MW MUST BY
TEUTONIC ALLIES
Have Started a New Offensive Along the Moldavian
: Front, to Cut Off Retreat of Enemy
DESPERATE BATTLE TOOK
Field Marshal Von Mackensen Has Reached Dumitresta and
Has Captured Several Villages The. Rumanian Pro
vince of Dobrudja Has Been; Cleared of Its Defenders
In the Verdun Region the Forces of the German Crown
Prince Have Repulsed Attacks by French Troops Against
the New German Positions on Le Mort Homme British
and French Troops Have Carried Out Successful Raids
on the West Front at Various Points.
Pressing in on southern Moldavia
from three sides, apparently with all
thefr vigor, the forces of the central
powers are making progress against
stilt resistance. On the Transylvanian
Moldavlan frontier, in the region north
of Rimnik-Sarat, and, In the Dobroudja
opposite Braila, Berlin reports, the
Austro-German and Bulgarian troops
are advancing.
A new thrust seemingly has been
started by the Austro -Germans along
the Moldavian frontier, thus adding
to the difficulties of the Russians and
Rumanians, already bard pressed from
the south and east. Several lines of
positions and 1,400 prisoners were
taken by the Invaders In the first day
of their offensive into Moldavia from
the west, which may have for its pur
pose the cutting oft of -the retreat of
the Rueso-Rumanian troops now op
erating along the southern Moldavian
border.
Along the River Kaslno and west
of Covesha, Petrograd ttays, Rumanian
troops were driven back nearly, a mile.
A. desperate battle also Is reported as
taking place near Sesmezo, near Ocna,
and within the Moldavian boundary.
North of Rimnik-Sarat ' all attacks
were repulsed, according, to -Petrograd.'
, '-;..'; '.;.." -J -' :-..,;.-- .- '
Field Marshal von Mackensen has
reached Dumitreati, r abou.tr 12 .miles
ERUDITE DEDUCTIONS,
BY EMINENT SCIENTISTS
Divulged at Biological. Section of the
American Science Association.
New York, Dec 29. War enthusi
asts ' who maintain that a nation will
lose its inherited virile virtues: by not
going to war are ' not supported in
their theory by present biological
knowledge, in the. opinion of Dr.
Jacques Loeb, head of the department
of experimental, biology of the Rocke
feller institute. Dr. Loeb addressed
the biological section of the American
Association for the. Advancement of
Science on "Biology and the War" to
day. He contended that "the struggle
for existence" and "survival of the
fittest" are no "laws of nature" in
the sense in which the term "law" is
used In the exact sciences.
"The biology of .. which the war en
thusiasts make use Is essentially anti
quated," declared Dr. Loeb, "and so we
need not be surprised to find that they
consider war to be based upon what
they call the "biological law of nature,'
the 'struggle for existence' or the sur
vival of the fittest."
"These war enthusiasts maintain
that unless a nation engages occasion
ally In war it will lose all these virile
virtues, especially courage, which are
. necessary for its survival. We do not
need to argue whether the acts com
mitted in a state of homicidal emotion
are the real or only manifestations of
courage; we may also overlook the
manifestations of virility left behind
by invading or retreating armies.
"The assumption that virility or
courage (whatever may be meant by
tr-ese terms) will -disappear if- not
praised in this form of war implies
an un proven and apparently false
biological assumption, namely, that
functions not praised or acts not or
ganized will disappear In . the off
spring." Addressing the American 'Anthrop
ological association. Dr. Harley Stamp
of the University of Pennsylvania ex
plained a new diagnosis of early evi
dences of tuberculosis by blood pres
sure. By this method, he declared,
traces of tuberculosis could be. detect
ed sometimes four years in advance of
methods previously used.
LIEUT. H. H.-TAINTOR
- DISMISSED FROM ARMY
Massed Checko When He Did Not Have
"Sufficient Funds to Cover Them.
San Die?o, Calif., Dec. 29. Lieuten
ant H. H. Talntor. Twenty-First Unit
ed States infantry, who was tried here
recently by a ocurt martial on charg
i es 'of conduct unbecoming an officer,
v has been dismissed from the army, ac
cording to word reecived here today
from Washington. Lieutenant Talntor
left today for New York. -The
specific charges against Lieu
tenant xaintor, wno as said to be a
member of af prominent New York
family. Were -passing checks on a hotel
' hare and on a bank at Yuma, Ariz.
- when he did not have sufficient funds
to cover them. .,
10,CCO JACKRABBITS KILLED
. t, , . ilN DRJVES IN TEXAS
I) United Effort to Reduce the Cost
;marillo, ' Texas, Dec. 2. Belated
reports tonight concerning' the- All
Panhandle of Texas Jackrabbit drive.
held in. a united effort to reduce the
cost of meat, indicate that not less
than lO.OOft . jack rabbits have j. been
killed in the various drives, r Market
prices quoted here tonight lor dreesed
rah&its was n cents a pouno.
PLACE NEAR SESMEZO
northwest of Rimnik-Sarat. and north
east of that town troops under his
command have captured several vil
lages. - The number of prisoners taken
by this army totals 1.400, in addition
to cannon and machine guns.
The Rumanian province of Dobrudja
is now almost cleared-of defenders,
as Berlin says Ratchelu. northeast of
the Matchin bridgehead, across the
Danube from Braila, has been con
auered. i-Satchelu is on the Danube.
West 6i the Meuse, in the Verdun
region, the forces of the German
crown prince have repulsed attacks by
French troops against the new tier
man positions on Le Mort Homme,
where second and third line trenches
were entered by the Germans, and 220
prisoners and seven machine guns
taken. Paris admits a slight success
for the Germans In this sector, saying
that one trench south of Le Mort
Homme was entered by the attackers.
Other efforts to advance between the
Meuse and Avocourt and in both Le
Mort Homme and Hill 304 were re
pulsed by the French.
Except for some engagements be
tween patrols arbund Brody, in Gall
cia, no activity s is reported from the
eastern Macedonian and Austro-Itallan
fronts. British and ' French- troops
have carried - out successful - raids on
the -west -front-afr various points.' -
CIRCULARS SENT TO 400,000
BROTHERHOOD MEMBERS
After a Conference of the Four Broth
erhood Chiefs in New York.
New York, Dec. 29. Special . circu
lars putting up to the 400,000 members
responsibility for the next step to be
taken by the railroad brotherhoods In
their controversy with the railroads
over the application and Interpretation
of the Adamson act were sent broad
cast by telegraph after a conference of
the four brotherhood chiefs here to
day. - '.--.
Announcement of the ' action taken
was made by William G. Lee, presi
dent of the Brotherhood of Railway
Trainmen, prior to his departure for
the west. He was accompanied by
the other brotherhood leaders whose
conference with the railway managers
yesterday resulted In a disagreement.
Earlier in the day the four chiefs
issued a somewhat cryptic statement
over their signatures declaring that
the attitude of the railroads threatened
to wipe out the benefits that should
accrue to the men from .the passage
of the Adamson act and asserting that
for that reason "the entire situation
is to be placed before the member
ship." .
The chiefs refused tor say whether
the action was a veiled threat of an
other strike vote such as brought
about the eight hour day legislation.
CARS DETAINED TO
CREATE HIGH PRICES.
Finding of George W. Anderson, U. S.
District Attorney at Boston.
New York, Deo. 29. After a con
ference here today of federal district
attorneys from Maine to West Virginia
who are Investigating the high cost of
living, a statement was issued by
George W. Anderson, United States
district attorney at Boston, in charge
of the government's inquiry Into food
and fuel prices, declaring that "busi
ness men who hold or detain cars un
necessarily and unfairly are under just
suspicion."
"If It be found." the statement said.
"that such detention Is a part of a
combination to create scarcity, en
hance prices and share in profits, we
do not believe that Juries will look
with lenient eyes on such action dur
ing these times."
ALCOHOL REQUIRED FOR
PRODUCTION OF MUNITIONS
Great Britain Making - Arrangements
to Secure an Adequate Supply.
London, 'Dec 29, 6:55 p. m. It was
officially announced today that owing
to the constantly Increasing require
ments of alcohol for the production
of munitions and for other -war pur
poses, the minister of munitions has
appointed a committee representing
the distillery interests as well as the
government departments -' to consider
the best means to adopt to secure ad
equate supplies.
EXPORTS OF MANUFACTURES '
THROUGH NEW YORK
For 1916 Were $2,785,331 ,906 A Billion
Mors Than in 1915V
- New - York, Dec. 29. Exports of
American manufactures and commod
ities through the port of New York
were S2.785.831,906 In 191-6, or approxl-
mately $1,000,000,000 more than In 1915,
it was announced today In a summary
of the calendar year's business given
out by Collector Dudley Field Malone.
- The Canadian Parliament will open
January 18
Caf .Paragraphs
Spaife, minister on Peace Mission
LondoniuLeC.-29. 6:82 TV. m. Marnnia
de VHllalobar. Spanish mlnistAr tn
Belgium, has started for Madrid after
a visit to Berlin. v: According: to a re
port in diplomatic circles here, the
minister is charged with a peace mis
sion. -v :- - .
ARRANGEMENTS MADE WITH
BRITISH PRIZE COURT
Whereby American Claimants May
Appear Before It Without British
Counsel. ; '
London, Dec. 29. 6.40 d. m. As the
result of conferences between. Sir
Samuel T. Evans, president of the
British prize court, and Robert P.
Skinner, the American consul-general.
an arrangement has been concluded
under which American claimants to
cargoes in the British prize court may
inaite meir appearance before the court
without engaging local legal aid. - It
is announced that it will be necessary.
aowever, ior an claimants to enter
appearance" this being the formal ac
tion to notify the court of their in
tention to appear in derense of their
interests, which may be done by an
agent in London qualified to do so by
power or attorney. This power of at
torney-may be executed by the absence
claimants In favor of the consulltren-
eraL who, if requested, it is an
nounced, will take the necessary steps
precedent to tne submission of the
affidavits. The cost of entering ap
pearance is purely nominal, consisting
or payment of two shillings for stamns.
As many case are pending in which
tne value or the yoods is so inconsid
erable that the owners would not be
Justified In employing local attorneys,
it is pomtea out tnat the new arrange
ment will enable them to secure judg
ment witnout any expense.
CARRANZA IS BUYING
V MUNITIONS IN JAPAN
Has Transmitted a Million Pesos' in
Gold in Payment.
El Paso, Texas. Dec. 29. The Car
ranza government has recently trans
mitted a million pesos in sold to Japan
in payment for war munitions, it was
learned here tonisrht from a well in
formed source. One shipment -of mu
nitions already has been received, ac
cording to this source, and the second
i sdue. . It is said to consist chiefly
or artillery shell and neld guns, in
cluding anti-aircraft cannon.
The same authority claims to have
information that, the two new car
tridge factories established by the
Car:Tiza government, with a capacity
or ib.uvt) cartridges a day each, are
equipped with the latest tyne of Amer
lean machinery shippod to a firm in
Spain - and then reshipped to Mexico
dv way or vera Cruz.
YAQUI TRIBE REFUSES .
- . TO SURRENDER ARMS
2,000, Including Womon nd Children,
Are Encamped at Lencho, Sonora.
Douglas. Ariz.; Dec. 29. The Yaqui
Indian tribe, 2,000 of which. Including
women and children, are encamped at
Lencho, Sonora, has definitely refused
to surrender its arms and ammunition
t othe Carranza government, accord
ing to arrivals here today. The re
fusal was made known through Mori
thR trlbnl war chief, it was stated.
The Mexican government will con
tinue negotiations in an effort to bring
about this end in a peaceable manner,
as without surrender of arms by the
Indians, the programme of division of
lands and establishment of the tribe
around the village of Bacum cannot
be carried out.
SCHOONER FANNIE PALMER
ABANDONED AT SEA
Five Master the Last of the Once Fa
mous Palmer Fleet.'
B.oston, Dec. 29. The five masted
schooner Fannie Palmer, last of the
vessels built for the once famous Pair
mer fleet sailing out of this port, was
abandoned at sea. during a voyage with
coal from Newport. News for Cartha
gena, Spain, her captain reported by
cable to agents here today. The crew
was saved, probably by transfer to a
passing steamer, and landed at Gib
raltar. The Fannie Palmer, recently sold to
Jacob - -S. Winslow of Portland. Me..
wa sone of the American vessels placed
on the British "blaekllst" because of
.a cargo of coal- delivered at Buenos
Aires which, It was claimed, reached
German consignees. The schooner
registered 1726 tons.
OVERLAND LIMITED TRAIN
WAS TWO DAYS LATE
Delay Was Caused by Severe Blizzard
in Wyoming. ,
New York, Dec. 29. The Overland
Limited of the Chicago and North
western Kailroad reached the term
inal here today two days late. The
train was due last Wednesday. Yes
terday's Overland is expected tonight
and the one due today may arrive to
morrow morning.
A blizzard m Wyoming, the worst in
years , in its effect on railrdad traffic,
accounted for the delays.
OBITUARY
Revi Dr. James Glenworth Butler
New York, Dec. 29. Word was re
ceived here today of the death at the
age of . 96 of the Rev. Dr. James
Glenworth - Butler, prominent clergy
man and author, at his residence last
night in Boonton, N. J. He was born
in Brooklyn, ,N. Y., was graduated
from Yale theological Seminary in
1850 and held pastorates in Brooklyn
and Philadelphia. From 1868 to 1871
he was editor of ' the American and
Foreign Christian Union. He spent
twenty years compiling a sreies of
eleven volumes entitled "The Bible
Work," a commentary. He produced
numerous other noted Biblical works.
Dr. Butler was known to many not
ed men. During the Civil War he met
Abraham Lincoln and a friendship
sprang up between them.. ,
-. . G. Bulls. '--
London, Dec. 29, 6:35 p. m. News
was received here today of the death
in Brussels of Q. Bulle, Mexican
charge d'affaires in Belgium. He had
been one . of the chief secretaries of
the commission for relief in Belgium
since the Inception of the work. In
accepting the position, he stated that
as a representative of a "country
without a government" to a "govern
ment without a country" he could do
no better than devote ' bis efforts .to
-relief work. - - - . -
Russian Regiment
Lost With Ship
WENT DOWN WITH. FINNISH
' . STEAMER OIKOMNA
VESSEL STRUCK A MINE
All
on Board With the Exception of
Fifty' Persons Are Said to Have
Been Drowned 1,500 Horses Also
Went Down With' the Steamer,
Which Sank in a Few Minutes.
Berlin, Dec. 29 (By Wireless to Say-
ville). The Finnish steamer Oihonna,
of 1,070 tons, with a regiment of Rus
sian coast artillery, from the Aland
Islands, on. board, struck a mine and
sank in a few minutes, according to a
despatch to the Frankfurter Zeltung
from Copenhagen All on board, with
the exception of fifty - persons, are
said to have been drowned.
The steamer was bound for Helslng
fors. In addition to the, men lost,
START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT
. Make a canvass of those' who attend to that little duty and they
will tell you that Norwich is an excellent place to shop. Such - of
course applies to those who are acquainted with the stores Of this
city, but there is no reason to feel satisfied with the opinion of those
who are familiar for there are thousands who can be convinced of
the same thing if there is a disposition on the part of the business
houses of the city to bring about that acquaintance.
Getting acquainted with the buying public may or may not be the
easiest sort of a task. It all depends upon the manner in which it
is attempted. If it is expected to result from waiting for people ' to
walk past your store it is a hopeless outlook. What is needed is
publicity and there is no better or surer way of reaching them than
by means of the advertising columns of The Bulletin. '
No better New Year's resolution could be made that to promise
your business a chance to grow through an advertising campaign
conducted throughout the year in The Bulletin. It pays others; It
will pay you. Start the New Year right. "
In the (past week the following matter has appeared in its col
umn: ' .
. Bulletin Telegraph Local
Saturday, : Dec." 23, . . 79 . : 180
IMonciay,vr . E25 85
Tnesday, Dec 26. . 86
Wednesday, Dec. 27. .
Thursday: Dec. 28. .
98
110
84
542
Friday,
Dec. -29..
Totals
1,600 horses went down with the ship.
. According to the same source, an
other liner plying between Abo, Rus
sia, and Marihaam, likewise struck a
mine, and a large number of persons
who were on board are missing. The
accidents, according to the newspaper,
are attributed to badly, anchored Rus
sion : mines belonging to the Finnish
bay mine fields.
PRESIDENT WILSON HAS
SIGNED THE FERRIS BILL
Opening Up 640-Acre Homesteads for
Stock Raising Purposes.
Washington, Dec. 29. President
Wilson late today signed the Ferris
bill opening up 640-acre homesteads
for stock raising and grazing pur
poses. It is accounted of great im
portance to the western states.
The bill passed the house a year
ago, the senate on the closing day of
the last session of congress, and fin
al agreement was reached between
conferees last week. Representative
Ferris of Oklahoma, its author, said
tonight that a considerable part of
the 300,000,000 acres of public lands
In the west and the 375,000,000 acres
In Alaska could be utilized for stock
raising under the law. - Thus, he
said, thousands of homeless citizens
would be able to gain homes. The
law raises the homestaed unit from a
maximum of 320 acres to 640 on arid.
semi-arid, non-irrigable and non-timbered
public land.
The bill, was strongly enaorsea Dy
the interior department which in
formed congress that it would result
in having th -enumbef of cattle in the
west "greater than during the most
prosperous days .of the cattle kings.
PERILOUS RIDE ATOP A
DISABLED HYDRO AIRPLANE
T. Okuri Was Half Frozen by Waves
Dashing Over Him Two Hours .'
New York, Dec. 29. Perched atop a
disabled hydroairplane and half froz
en by the waves which had dashed
over him for two hours,. T.. Okuri, a
.Tunanese student aviator, was rescued
from a perilous position four miles off
the Staten Island shore late today,
cantain of a tugboat saw him waving
his arms for help and took him
on board,' but was unable to save the
machine. " I '
. Okuri flew four miles out out .to sea
to test the hydroairplane's pontoons.
When he alighted on the water , the
waves washed over - the engine, he
said, and put , the carburetor out of
commission. '
PAUL HAFFER GETS y
JAIL SENTENCE: FOR LIBEL
Man -Who Accused. George Washing
' - ton of Drunkenness.' O -
Olmpia, Wash., Dec. 2s,--Aa a libel-
er of George Washington's memory,
Paul Haffer of Tacoma must - serve
four months in the county Jail, the
Washington supreme court today up
holding the conviction of Haffer on a
criminal libel charges Haffer (pub
lished an article -accusing - the first
president of the United States; of
drunkenneTand erMrresuiarities.
Abrupt Ending of
Print Paper Probe
WHEN MANUFACTURERS REFUS
ED TO DISCUSS PRICES
REPORT IN TEN DAYS
It is Intimated That Facts Uncovered
' by the Commission May bs Turned
Over to the Department of Jus
tice Publishers Are Constructing
Paper-Making Plants.
Washington, ' Dec." 29. Hearings re
opened here today by .the federal trade
commission its news print paper in
vestigation ended suddenly when pa
per manufacturers refused to ttscuss
the reosonableness of news print prices
Both publishers and jobbers had been
heard. -
The manufacturers declared they
had -not time to study tables prepared
by the commission's investigators
purporting to show huge profits. The
928 1872 3342
members of the trade commission an
nounced that despite an apparent un
willingness by the manufacturers to
keep up the investigation, the com
mission's report would be issued prob
ably in aboift ten days and that such
recommendations to congress would be
made as were thought necessary. At
the same time it was said the com
mission would be in position probably
by tomorrow night to announce wheth
er its consideration of a paper distri
bution plan showed an actual paper
shortage and a need for distribution
under supervision of the commission.
Prosecutions May Follow.
It was strongly intimated during the
day that facts uncovered by the com
mission will be turned over to the de
partment of justice. It was announced
that if the commission failed to re
lieve conditions, some other govern
mental agency might be able to help.
The report to congress, it is under
stood, will score manufacturers for
raisinpr prices to the extent of forcing:
many small publishers out of business.
Manufacturers proposed the distri
bution plan at a hearing two weeks
ago. Today's hearing was a resump
tion of that proceeding, interrupted to
study the plan and give the manufac
turers time to go over the commis
sion's cost of production figures.
Manufacturers and Jobbers Blamed '
Publishers testifying today blamed
both manufacturers and Jobbers -for
prevailing conditions in the newspaper
world. It was declared that Jobbers
had taken advantage of the last two
weeks to try to frighten publishers
Into paying hlarh gfices by claiming
a shortage existed which would pre
vent many publishers from filling their
needs for the coming year. More tes
timony was brought also concerning
alleged refusals to sell to publishers.
and regarding different prices quoted
by the same manufacturers. It was
charged that an effort was being made
to : discourage buying associations
through which publishers hope to pur
chase their, paper more cneapiy.
. Publishers Building Plants.
Publishers, it- was said, are going
ahead rapidly with their plans for
constructing paper-making plants of
their own. By the middle of 1918,
said A. J. Mclntyre, paper expert of
the Newspaper Publishers Association,
the publishers will Do virtually inde
pendent of the paper makers.
REVELATIONS OF AMERICAN
HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION
One Was That Louis XI of Francs
Was a Chicken Thief. ;-
Cincinnati, O., Dec 29. That Louis
XI of France . was afflicted with epi
lepsy and a form of - kleptomania,
which caused him - to rob - the hen
roosts of his subjects, was one of the
Interesting discoveries brought out by
the research of Chalfant Robinson of
Princeton University and revealed In
a paper before tne American His
torical Association here today.
-In his address on "History "and
Pathology," Professor Robinson em
phasized his belief that disease has
played an Important part in shaping
history, wnicn. to be altogether under
stood, must be rad in the light off the
biolotdst and the alienist.. "Their sys
tem of inter-marriage has often made
rulers more mentally aberrant than
their; subjects., declared jthe professor.
General Total
797 .1056
142 278 505
140 194 420
169 177, 444
163 253 526
134 173 , 391
Condensed Telegrams
Levi Henry Ellkeil, professor of
urees at , Amnerst, is dead.
N. Y. Ambulance Comuinv . No. 3
lett MoAllen, Texas, for home.
Fire destroyed Peterson's mattress
factory at Oswego, N. Y., at a loss of
Sir Hiram Maxim, the inventor, who
died recently, left an estate valued at I
465,000.
The Swedish Foreian' Office denied
that it took action looking forward to
peace m Jtuurope.
Cant. Urban Wetzel. Eiohth Oun
Infantry died of diabetes at . the base
hosptal at Fort Bliss.
Gold to the amount of $33,000,000
was received from Ottawa for the ac
count of J. P. Morgan & Co.
Orlando F. Weber resianed as vic
president ana assistant general man
ager or the Maxwell Motor Co.
The Stanley Aniline Chemical Wrok.
of Lockhaven. Pa.. nr-r.vi ie
ltal from $1,000,400 to $2,000,000.
- - i
Exports of foodstuffs from the Unit
ed States for the first eleven" months
of the year amounted to 670,009,000.
engine noun VL me JMBton anal
Maine railroad at Newport, Vt., was
destroyed bv fire and four kUmntZ
Tl S I . . . t.
destroyed by fire and four locomotives
baaiy damaged.
lona E. Parker, of Newark, N. J,
died in the City Hospital; of burns
received when her dress caught fire
rrom a gas stove.
Tl,. c.u u i I
nounced, has -refused, to 'ratify the
v a wsivia MWWiiiisiBiiVa 1L IS I
proposed compromise settlement of the
Tientsin concession dispute-
United States Ambassador Psoe had
a long interview with -Baron Sonnino,
the Italian Foreign Minister, in re-
gara 10 jresiaent Wilson's note.
Borouoh President Csnnallv nf
Richard S. Newcombe ot Flushing to
d"X j o r T . T
do commissioner of Public Work.
The friends of Nicholas Lonaworth
in the House of Representatives are
booming him as a compromise Repub
lican candidate ror the speakership.
Announcement was made of the
resignations- of Oapt. Kdwin- -Moody
ana .f irst ueut itoy wiiour er tym
pany H. ITisat Jtegunent,-N.-G.,- N Y;
ti m 1 Oii r . i ,
us vmiirj ,oteci ,u. win .spena
17,000,000 at Johnstown, Pa., in the
erection of , two new . olast . furnaces
and a new piant to manutacture car
wheels.
-Five persons are miesina and more
than a score injured as a result of the
explosion of an aceiyicno p.ant in tne
cenar of tno. Madison jboti at. .Mount
i011y.' ",..' -- - --;.
A verdict of murder in the second
degree was returned by the Jury, in
t.ie case of Alfonso Brenon, charged
with the murder of his wife at Cape
Vincent, IM. x. - '
Governor Fielder of New Jersey re
fused to "grant a reprieve ,to 'William
A. Ashbrldge of Camden, N. J., who
is 'Under sentence to die in the electric
chair next week.
One man was drowned arid five oth
ers are believed to have lost their lives
when the canal tug Reliance was
swamped by high seas just east of the
break water, near Cri3tobal.
Misha Appelbaum. founder of the
Humanitarian Cult, requested Count
von Bernstorff, the - German Ambas
sador, to deliver a peace telegram
from the Cult to the Kaiser.'
Henderson S. Martin, vice governor
of the Philippines, has resigned and
will return at once to private life be- I America s own suramrce. imj Be
cause his wife's health will not permit I Pect, however, that their government's
continued residence in the islands. I reply will be short and appreciative.
the American steamship Chemung, tor-
pedoed off the Mediterranean coast of
Spain, Nov. 26, arrived at New York
on the French line steamer Rochem-
beau. .
The Outdoor Showmen of the World,
an organization of circus proprietors.
performers and others interested in
outdoor amusements, have elected
Frank P. Spellman of Newark, N. J.
president.
Owners of the British steamship Te-
lena have filed. a $100,000 libel suit
against the Merchants and Miners lin
er Powhatan, with which the Telena
was in collision in the lower Chesa
peake two weeks ago.
Typewriters instead of pens for
school children were advocated by
Prof. Franklin Bobbitt of the school
of education of the University of Chi
cago in addressing the Illinois worn
ans legislative congress.
Residents for a distance of five blocks
in Flatbush, L. I., were "in the dark"
for half an hour Thursday night. The
trouble was caused by the blowing out
of a fuse on Avenue H. "near" Ocean
Avenue, In an electric light manhole.
A net gain of 61 votes for Thomas
J. Scully, democrat, In his contest with
Robert Carson, republican, for the con.
grees seat from the Third New Jersey
district, was shown in the returns from
Monmouth county on recount.
Fifty-six members of a night school
class narrowly escaped injury when
fire" starting from an explosion of
chemicals in a laboratory, destroyed
the Fargo High school building and
adjoining property, at Fargo, N. D,
at a loss of J 100,000.
GERMANY TO ESTABLISH
A SUBMARINE MAIL j
Deutschland and Her 8ister Ships to be
Used for That Purpose. "
Berlin, Dec. . 29. ' (Via Wireless to
Sayville) The mail . to be carried on
the merchant submarine Deutschland
and her sister- ships, the German pos
tal authorities L announce, will be
known as "Submarine mail" and it
will be despatched to the United
States, Central and South America,
the West Indies, China, the Dutch
East Indies and - the Philippine Isl
ands. All letters for transmission by
submarine must be sent to Bremen and I less according to S. B. Moore, an ex
must bear the Inscription "Submarine I plosives expert. Mr. Moore's state-
Letter.",
Mrnnn si tears wip.
Queretaro, Mex.. Dec. 29. General
Venustiano Carranza . spent today at I day that-rewards offered for the ap
the nome of friends ? near here, cele- I prehension of the person who placed
bratlnghl36lBt- birthday, -
M 0 f e ? N 6 U tT 8 1 S W
..""':;.-'. ' r :
NORWAY, 8WEDEN r AND - DEN
MARK SEND IDENTIC NOTES
MAKE NO DIRECT OFFER
j Despatch by Spain of 8trora Pretest
to Germany Against. Submarine Ac
tivities Has ' Overshadowed Interest
Among ". Washington Officials in
Peace Negotiations. 1
Washlnerton. Thv 9Q tv. . k.
Scandinavian nations, Norway, Sweden
ZrTa eTmmrk T tirofkh idoW
?- tuTTIvJ?? through Identic -notes,
"urwenan codv or mhirh vna
handed by Minister Bryn, have ex
pressed their lively interest in .Preal-
dent Wilson's proposals "looking to-
naiua me (SEtaDiisnmem or a durable
peace" and their "deeoest svmmttiT"
TTnliVo th. cl, " " . , .
nffi?Z, V rtvernm.fnt' whlcS
?. help in any way. "no matter
Y.ii.11 ui enurxs 10 snorten the war.
now moaeSW the MrjUlrtinnvinn - nnnn-
trles make no direct offer of co-opera-
i.uu. xuo idci, axiraciea particular In.
terest because Norway nflrtirniariv i...
iue greatest autrerers from
the war amone tne neutrals.
The state department . made publla
tne .Norwegian note without comment
S?-1 WIi? n,e ?"S? ot silenos
. i r .. -
?""plea.oy i-resmem wiison and Bee-
reiary Lansing, no other offininl in.
formation concerning peace moves was
forthcoming during the day.
, Text of Note. '
The Norwegian note, with 'wiiinii
those from Denmark and Sweden are
I "Tt i. nrit-h ti,. if... -..
" l" iNorwegian government has
teamed of -the proposals -which the
president of the United States has
Just made with the purpose of facili
tating, measures looking toward the
establishment of a durable peace -while
at the same time seeming to avoid any
interference which , could cause ' pain
to' legitimate feelings.
"The Norwegian government would
Cdnslder itself falling in its duties to
wards its own people and towards all
humanity if it did not . ezpresss It
t ... . . ... .'win
wnicn couii eontrioute to put an end
to the ever-increasing suffering- and
the moral and material losses. It has
eyf ry hope that the initiative of Pres
ident Wilson . will arrive at ' a result
worthy of the high purpose which in
spired it." " '
. Mcst of the South American nations:
it was indicated tndav In dlnlnmatlil
t quarters, will not send communications
i regarding the -president's- note, -en- the
nfn;ml Tin Tt n n i-T i rt o- thai- It waa aA-
dressed to them largely for their own
information and not to solicit action.
Holland, whose attitude has been the
subject of much speculation, also-was
said to-be" unlikely to take any action
owing to the feeling there that it, might
appear unneutral to : one side of -. the
other- and militate against the location
of the eventual peace conference in
that country. Beyond the fact .that th
Spanish cabinet has not yet decided on
Spain's action, no further information
has come to the Sanish embassy to
day. " j ' " -
Turkey's Reply in Washington." "
As to the belligerents. Turkey's, re
ply to the president's note, .virtually
identical with those of German and
Austria, vas received. - Bulgaria's is
expected tomorrow.. .........
Entente diplomats still profess to be
nrrttVmnri-lv miKKlefl fl.Hout the funda-
and undecided whether it was design-'
mental purpose of the president s note
ed primarily to promote peace or ior
I The real lmpossiointy oi peace irora
their viewpoint, they say, will be ad-.
equately pointed out in tneir lengtny
! reply to tne central powers, wnere urey
can speak directly and to tne point,
i without fear of wounding a frlenmly
I neutral, t .
Spain Protests Submarine Warfare.
The despatch by Spain of a strong
protest to " Germany against subma
rine activities apparently overshadow-
es in interest among omciais nere tne
-rress In tne peace negotiations.
The S Danish ambassador saw Sec
retary Lansing recently and the secre
tary is understood to have outlined
fully the attitude of the United States:
No secret is being maae oi tne xaci
that the German submarine activttie
fnmlsh the cause of real anxiety ' xo
American government officials referred
to in the president's note to the bellig
erents.
LEGISLATION FAVORABLE TO -
REORGANIZATION OF B. A M.
Might Be Obtained in Vermont and
New Hampshire.
Boston, Dec. 29. A belief that legis
lation favorable to the reorganization
of the Boston and Maine railroad
could be obtained in Vermont and New
Hampshire in 1917 was expressed In
the federal court her etoday by former
Governor George H. Prouty of Ver
mont and Frank P. Carpenter of Man
Chester, N. H-, both directors of the
road, who testified In the receivership
hearine-. I.ack nf a definite nlan was
I the reason ascribed by Mr; Carpenter
for failure to obtain such legislation In
New Hampshire last year. I
Mr. Prouty and Mr. Carpenter, to
gether with three other directors of
the Boston and Maine, testified that
reorganization was the only basis on
which the Toad's credit could be firm
ly established. A settlement by com
promise of the $4,000,000 claim of the
Hampden railroad was also favored
by each of the five - directors as a
"moral and business obligation.".
EXPERT SAYS BOMB WAS
PRACTICALLY HARMLESS
The One Found Under Residence ef
Gov. Spry at Salt Lake City.
Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec. 13. Ths
bomb : which was placed In front of
Governor William Spry's residence
Christmas dav was nractlcally harm-
i ment declares that there was only a
mnll rtujanHf-ir nf ArrtlMtvA In the
Ibomb.
I Chief of Police White announced te-
the bomb now aggregate f L0OO -; -
