111 ill 'S il
I 3:3 I
MAILS
From San Francisco:
Matsonia, Jan. 2.
For San Francisco:
Siberia Maru, Jan. 2
From Vancouver:
Makura. Jan. 24.
For Vancouver
Makura, Jan. 5.
Kvculn JluIU-vin. Kfct No, !
1 1 a w a i !; n . U r. Vol. XXI V, 7 No. 7711
-G PA(JRS HONOLULU, .TEIMUTOK V ' OF HAWAII; SATURDAY, DKOEMBKK oO, HUG. - PA(iKS.
PIlICE FIVE CENTS;
(ft
J
iaUubwufuk
j
sJl;i EditioEi
mw
am
1
.I , --
I;
rare
u
fl
uu
4 -
I
u
I
14
r
H
V
it
!i.
''T
II
H
a.
HAWAIIAN FOUNDATION FORMS
TO MEET DEMAND FOR EFFICIENT
j ipDLING BENEVOLENT FUNDS
New Institution is Modeled After Suc
cessful Foundation Now in Operation
in Mainland Cities
Systematic handling of funds inte
tional, charitable and such other purp
are the object and the purpose of the
of which steps have been taken.
It -is to receive gifts, devises an
tee arfd administer, manage and deal
He committee or trustees will b
fcy the chief justice of the supreme c
tive officer of the City and county cf
the Hawaiian Trust Company, who ar
four and five years,' and provisions ar
Donors may signify when the pri
tributed and how, and the purposes an
end the income is to be used.
It is subject to public supervision
This is a brief synopsis of the res
Is Eleemosynary Corporation.
At a meeting of the board of direc
tors of the Hawaiian Trust Company,
held Friday afternoon, there was
passed a resolution creating the Ha
waiian Foundation. It is to be incor-
porated as an eleemosynary Institu
tion and will as such have no capital
stock. - Jt is intended to safeguard in
vrrtment of funds, the income of
which Is to be devoted to charitable,
benevolent, educational or public wel
fare purposes and , to carry out the
wishes of the benefactor.
Scope Is Explained
At the office of the Hawaiian Trust
Company this morning it was learned
that the newMlawaiian Foundation is
modeled on similar Institutions that
have recently been established in
some' of the larger cities of the main
land, adapting the ideas to conditions
ibrre. It was added that frequently
. when & sum. is left to 'trustees of some
"particular institution the character or
U'prposea of sucb institution change
or it ris- amalgamated, with others or
passes out pf existence before the ex
, piration - of , the trust 4 and the money
is toot" then devoted to the uses for
which it was Intended for the full
period. It Is to avoid such conditions
rs this, for one thing, that the founda
tfen is planned.
Pumaees Are Designated
The resolution passed Friday after
noon' first creates the foundation and
then authorizes the acceptance o
gifts, bequests and devlse3 for specific
purposes. - From the time the donor
provides the income to be available
it is, less proper charges and expenses,
tp be annually. devoted to charitable
purposes, either perpetually pr for the
time limited by the donor before dis
tribution of principal. The purposes
are not limited and it is to be handled
as one fund.
Among the public welfare purposes
are, designated care of sick, aged or
: Infirm, promotion of education, scien
tific research, improvement living con
ditions and recreation for all classes.
Respects Donor's Wishes
The committee Ms to. be governed
by and respect the expressed wishes
f the donor, but is given discretion
when conditions demand it. There
arc to be five members,, one name!
by the directors of the trust company
for one year and one for five, one by
the governor for two years, one by the
chief justice- of the supreme court for
three years and one by the mayor for
four years. Vacancies are to be filled
by the same authorities. Receipts and
' disbursements are to be audited Mtn- ;
nually by an independent auditor;
Trustees Given Powei
Provisions are made for the distri
bution of principal, provided that not
more than 20 per cent cf the entire
amount heid in trust shall be so dis
tributed within a period of five con
secutive years.
In passing the -resolution the direc
tors of the trust company have fol
lowed suggestions that have come to
them from various sources holding the
liellef that , public good would be con
rerved by the establishment of such
a foundation and that greater results
and better efficiency could be secured
by 'combining Requests and gifts as
it Is now proposed to do.
Father Confesses
Firing Shot That
x Killed Jis Child
.(Special blarlitilMia Correspondence)
:
V.::
WAILUKU. Maul.. Dec. 29,
Fernandez Planesi, the Porto Ri- -f
4-can, who has been held by the
police on .suspicion ' pf having
fired the shot which went --
through the wall of John Goo-
4- vela's house in the Hamakuapoko
camp last Sunday, killing his 3- -f
year-old daughter who was on
V the bed, made full confession to-
. d ay. He may have to answer a
charge of manslaughter. It is .'
certain that the shot was fired
by Planesi from his., window
.4- simply for the sake of the noise
in connection with his Christmas
4 i Ioliration.
f t' f t 4 t -
nded to be devoted to religious, educa
oses as may be for the public welfare
Hawaiian Foundation, for the creation
d bequests for such purposes as trus
with them as a single trust,
e appointed, one by the governor, one
ourt, one by the mayor, chief execu
Honolulu, and two by the directors of
e to be appointed for one, two, three,'
e made for filling vacancies,
ncipal of any donation shall be dis
d proportions for which the principal
through the attorney general,
olution which creates the foundation.
FATHER ACCUSED
10 YEAR OLD BOY
George Hu Arrested for Murder
of Man and Firing House
With Son in It
(Spril Str Bu;ie.iB Corrm)ODln-)
' WAILUKU, Maui, Dec. 29. George
Hu was-arrested today and will- be
held to" answer for the murder of
Joseph Punihale and his own 10-year-old
son,:. JcsephlJu..,; Uu .'will . beAC
cused of having set fire to his shack
n order to cover the murder of
Punihale. It 16 supposed that he for
got that his son was asleep in another
?art of the building. This is the lat
?st development in the Hana tragedy
it Wednesday night. ' ,
The police claim to have "evidence
now that in the fight which occurred
n Hu's place, following several days
f drunken revel In which a number of
vJana men were engaged, Hu struck
Punihale. first with a lantern and
j then with a heavy bowl, knocking him
down unconscious, mis oroke up tne
party, and all left except Hu and the
unconscious man. The Tire i "which
destroyed the house and burned Pu
nlhale's body to a crisp, occurred an
hour or two later. ' ; i
County Sheriff Crowell is at pre
sent cn his way to Hana. where the
matter will be thoroughly investigat
ed. .'"',..
, (Aiaociktrd Proas ty Federal Wireless)
WASHINGTON, D. C, Dec. 30. A
drastic proposal, designed to furnish
authority under which manufacturers
or shipbuilders will, be compelled to
give preference to navy work, was
submitted by Secretary of the Navy
Daniels today to the house , naval af-
, fairs committee for inclusion In the
1918 naval appropriation bill.
Secretary Daniels points out the dif
ficulty of getting naval construction
work done promptly with the yards
and factories filled with large private
orders. ".' "' . ..
fAHKoriattd Tress by Federal Wirclesii)
DEItLIN, Germany, Dec. 3 A
Vienna despatch' says that Eduard
Strauss, the noted composer of music,
died there today. 1
MANY NATURALIZED'
IN FEDERAL COURT
The followin? arsons today were
adiUittei to American citizenship in
the looal federal court:. Gustav A.
Erickson; Jarae-j J. Haynes, native of
Great llritain; Joseph Kennedy, native
of Great Britain; Franz Theodor
Schmidt, native of Germany; F, Eu
gene Haley, native of Great Britain;
Sylvester P. Kleine, native of Germany.-
.'".'
The funeral of Mrs. Pulewia Uml,
who died Friday, was held this morn
ing from Silva's undertaking parlors.
Burial was in the Kalaepohaku ceme
tery. She is survived here br three
sons, Rowell Kinney of the fire de
partment, lluel Kinney of Waialua and
Rueben Kinney.
OF BURNING HIS
DANIELS WANTS
NAVY CONFERENCE
NOTED COMPOSER
REPORTED
DEAD
Late isws" "t-
1 BROTHERHOOD HEADS DO NOT LOOK FOR STRlKE
CLEVELAND, O.. Dec. 30. Warren Stone, head of Ihe Order of Rail
way Engineers, and W. G. Lee cf the Trainmen's Brotherhood, arriyed hce
today. Stone says that it is "highly improbable there will bt a strike Men
day." ;'
WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 30.The president visited the Capitol today
and conferred with Senitor Newlands of t;ie commerce committee about
expediting the railroad legislation in view of the future rf the railroads
and gttting an agreement on the application of the. Adamson eight-hour
law. . ..; ' ; ". ,: ' .'';".';:.' ''';"
. CHINESE PARLIAMENTARY DEADLOCK CONTINUES
PEKING, C'aina, Dec. 30. The Chfnese senate today rejected the nomi
nation of Kuo Kan as minister of the interior,- appointed by the premier.
The deadlock between the parliament and .h3 premier continues.
U. 3. ARMY AVIATORS FLY TO PHILADELPHIA
PHILADELPHIA, Pa., Dec. 30 Saven isroplanes landed today at the
navy yard from New York within two hours. Others are exacted. Army
aviators flew them, competing for licenses nd testing new stabilizers.
Fourteen flyers started, each with a passen;er.
STATELY PAGEANT AT BUDAPEST CORONATION
LONDON, England, Dec. 30. An Amsterdam despatch says that Km
peror Charles I of Austria-Hungary and Queen Zita, his consort, were
'crowned with stately pageant and picturesque ceremony : at St. ; Mathew's,
Budapest, today. The queen, according to ancient custom, rode in a great
coach Ira wn by 16 horses, in a long, glittering pageanL
PASSENGER STEAMER ASHORE AT RARATONGA
SAN FRANCISCO, CaU Dec 30. A cablegram to the Chamber of Com
merce here says that the. steamer Maitai, wnich left here on December 7
for Wellington, went ashore on Raratonga island on Christmas day. The
Maitai had 43 passengers of whom a number disembarked at Papeete. The
crew numbered SO. Agent Black of the Union Steamship Company has not
heard af the accident. ,;
THOMAS W. LAWSON RENEWS CHARGES OF "LEAKS"
BOSTON, Mass., Dec. 30j-Thonias W, LaTrson, who has been summoned
to -.Washington by Chairman Henry of the house rules committee to testify
concerning Lawson's charges of rleaks" in the state department taken ad
vantage of on the stock market, announpes that he will visit Henry on
Monday and has replied to the summons as l'ollowg: 'The good capitol has
been wallowing in Wall street.leaks and grafts for 40 years. You, Wood,
started i his, then made me take the whole of it, Have a heart, Congress
man!" Congressman Wood had asked for n inquiry Into the alleged
leaks.;':"- ",: .;".' . .- - .'
EVERYBODY KNEW,
SAYSE
THAT PIER BULGE
Engineer Morgan's Statements
Draw ForthEmphatic Reply;
' Rumorvlncludes Forbes
J. G. Morgan's statement made yes
terday to the Star-Bulletin that he
alone, of the territorial officials an J
engineers on Piers 8, 9 and 10 knew
of the bulging out Of the Pier 9 wall
Is unqualifiedly contradicted today by
Ed Lord, president of the Lord-Y'oung
Engineering Company, contractors.
To a direct question put to him as
to whether or not Charles It. Forbes,
superintendent of public works and
chairman of the harbor commission,
knew of the bulging out of the pier,
Lord gave an answer that does not
directly implicate this official.
He says, with significant emphasis:
"Everybody down there knew it. ' Any
engineer who looked at the job with
half an eye couldn't help knowing it."
When the Star-Bulletin brought to
his attention an explicit report that
many weeks ago he stopped the dredg
ing and "fiir on finding that the wall
was bulging, and that Forbes was
acquainted with this fact. Lord said he
r referred to say nothing at this. time.
As to the other members of the har
bor board, Lord frankly says he does
not believe they were aware of the
facts and he gives them individually
and as a body credit for acting in all
sincerity and good faith.
Lord also says frankly that the now
famous "lie" incident at the board
meeting, when he and Forbes passed
the "short and ugly" word, was due
largely to his own amazement and
enger at hearing from the superin
tendent of public works the statement
that the wall had not bulged.
"After knowing as I knew that the
wall had bulged, and knowing how
common the talk of its condition had
been for weeks, this nearly knocked
me off my feet," he said. . "I knew
that Morgan and Gregcr were ac
quainted with the facts and that every
body seemed to be aware of iL
"Common Talk on Riers
"It was common talk on the piers
that Pier 9 had gone out and I , am
confident that all. the officials on the
job there knew. Forbes came down
there every day or so.
"It is foolish for Morgan to say that
(Continued on tis(.e twol
CAPT. RUTTENCUTTER IS
TRANSFERRED FROM OAHU
Capt Eradv G Kuttencutter, 1st In
fantry, Schofield Barracks, who is now
on leave cn the mainland, has been
transerred to the 18th Infantry
througli orders announced from de
partment header a rters. CapL Rutten
cutter cs transferred from the 12th
Infantry to the 1st Inlantry in July,
1813.
Denying all the allegations of the
complaint, Samuel Hookano, district
magistrate at Ewa, has filed in circuit
court lis answer ' to an action fori
$5000 damages brought against him hy
Police Officer Eli M. Crabbe. Crabbe
alleges slander.
Glance
HAWAII TRACES
EVERYWHERE-
Banker, Home From Vacation
Trip, Traveled Widely in
States and Canada
" Just how -small the world Is and
how far one has to go without run
ning cn traces of Hawailans is for
cibly brought cut In a story which L.
Tenney Peck, president of the First
National Bank of Honolulu, who, re
cently returned with his family from
a six-months' tour of the United States
and Canada, tells of a novel experi
ence in the Canadian brush.
He left here with the intention of
spending a recreational vacation, pure
and simple, and he says he was suc
cessful. . His physical appearance
bears ou the statement. Intending
to go Into the Maine fastnesses. Peck
heard that 'trout fishing was magnifi
cent in the virgin forests about 100
miles north of Quebec, and he spent
three wonderful weeks there thinking
he was the only one from Hawaii who
had trod such a happy fishing ground.
To his surprise, however, he ran upon
the name of. Wells, former manager
of Walluku plantation, carved In the
log of a little cabin far -up In the
mountains about "50 miles from no
where."; ::-::
Mr. Peck was accompanied by Mrs.
Peck; her, mother, Mrs. A. M. Locke,
and his son Newton T. Peck. They
saw the Yosemite, "did" the moun
tains of West Virginia, spent the op
era season in New York City and
were for some time In Philadelphia,
Washington," D. Boston and Mon
treaL As a bnKer -thougl on a vacation
he studied the condition of finances
closely while in New York and re
ports that It is the hope of great men
'.of money there that after the war
New York and not London, Paris or
Berlin will be the great center
through which the transactions of na
tions will be cleared.
The rate on "call" loans took a
higher turn whfle Mr. Peck wag in
New York, chiefly on account of a
diminution of the reserves of banks
handling them.. Trading on the ex
change is more brisk than' ever be
fore in the history of the metropolis
and the drain on the Allies' bank rolls
has been so severe that English sov
ereigns are bein? melted up : and re
coincd into American money.
PROVISION MEN SEE
CONTINUANCE OF WAS
Information has reached Honolulu
by telegraph that big provision men
of the country expect the war to con
tinue some time longer A large flour
ing concern today wirelessed its local
agent, in part, as fallows: ,
. "Near future of flour market will
depend muca on war. Expect war to
continue some time." .
The public schools of Honolulu and
the territory will open next Tuesday
for the spring term. it is expected
that the total enrolment will be ap
proximately 32.000, an increase over
the attendance when school closed
for the Christmas holidays.
TE1EYPECH
HOLDS FILIPINOS
NOT ENTITLED TO
U. S. CITIZENSHIP
Judge Vaughan Disagrees With
Ulemons on Status of
"Brown Brothers"
Natives of the Philippines, not be
ing white persons or persons of Afri
can descent or nativity, are not elig
ible to citizenship under the naturali
zation laws cf the United States.'
This is the summary of a decision
handed down today by Federal Judge
Horace W. Vaughan in the case of
Alfred Flores Ocampo, police officer
and detective and native of the Philip
pines, a petitioner for naturalization
as an American citizen.
The decision Is in direct disagree
ment with one handed down some
months ago by Federal Judge C. F.
Clemons, in which the latter held that
Filipinos were eligible for naturaliza
tion. Since the Tiling of that decision
three Filipinos haveueen admitted to
citizenship m the local court.
Judge Vaughan holds that Section
30 of the act of June 23, 1906. author
izes the naturalization of the class
of persons specified therein by apply
ing to them all " the applicable provi
sions of the laws providing for the
naturalization of aliens, and relieving
them from the necessity of renouncing
foreign allegiance.
That cne does not come within the
classes of persons designated in Sec
tion 2169 of the revised statutes,
which, the decision holds, was not re
pealed by the act cf June 29, "to estab
lish a uniform rule of naturalization,"
does not make it inapplicable to him,
says Judge Vaughan. It applies and
forbids his naturalization ' unless he
does come within one of the classes
specified, he adds. :
"It is no answer to say that the
section applies to aliens," the decision
continues, "and that the applicant is
not j an alien. It is by virtue of the
provisions of the Jaws for, the natural
ization of aliens that he must be ad
mitted If at all." . f
" It js. further; pointed out that Sec
tion 30 applies all of the provisions
of the naturalization ' law including
Section 2169 of the revised statutes,
to the persons specified, therein. : A
native of the Philippine- Islands, of
the "Filipino race, being neither a
white person nor of African nativity or
descent, is not eligible to citizenship
under the naturalization laws of the
United States, it is held. As Ocampo
does not come .within the classes of
persons designated in the naturaliza
tion laws, his application Is denied.
LL S. TROOPS IN
(Aisocuted Pre bj Fderl Virle)
WASHINGTON, D. C, Dec. 30.
"Let the protocol rest for a while,"
suggests First Chief Carranza to
President Wilson, in response to the
"ultimatum" of the United States,
which gave the Mexican de facto presi
dent 24 hours in , which to sign the
protocol or have further negotiations
respecting border conditions broken
off.;. : ;
Carranza, without refusing outright
to sign the protocol along the lines
dictated by the American members of
the international commission, suggests
that the negotiations be taken up
again along new. lines. He declares
that the presence of the American ex
pedition under Gen. Pershing pre
cludes any definite agreement being
entered into at the present time, but
is the only, stumbling block in the
way of an immediate adjustment of all
ether questions at Issue. w
He declares that the recall of Persh
ing will permit of the adjustment of
all other remaining questions within a
week. . V..;'. . ,:,
HigL Paper Cost
Hits Magazines;
Several Suspend
(Associated r.ess by iederJ Wirelesi)
iEW YORK, N. Y Dec. 30. Sev
eral ' national magazines today : an
nounced an Increase in the price of
their subscriptions, due to the extraor
dinary high price of paper and other
materials in the magazine, newspaper
and book publishing business. So high
are the prices going that, some of the
smaller periodicals are suspending,
unable to meet the new expenses.
COUSINS JOIN ARMY
On condition that they would be as
signed to the same company an
thereby preserve the companionship
dating back to their baby days, Geo.
W. and Chester H. Zenter, two O'alo
cousins, enlisted at San Francisco in
the aviation section of the - Signal
Corps. - : '
MEXICO BAR TO
FINAL AGREEMENT
PARIS VERSION OF ENTENTE'S
REPLY SAYS REPARATION VJILL
BE DEMANDED,
Berlin Hears Rumor Wilson Has Sent Second
Note to Belligerents Explanatory of First-
RassO'Ramanians Losing Steadily
'":' 'r- .'' :':'.:.: v:-
(Aaor.ited Ir Sm1c by Fdrtl WtrvlMi) .
r WASHINGTON, D. Dec. 30. The official text of the Allies' reply to
the Teuton peace proposals began arriving at the state department this aft
ernoon. It is not made public. The United States is acting as the interme
diary In sending the reply to the Central Powers. ; I ;
ii t mo l.' mi TI...J 4i... j'... .1 i, ...!lt ....
i ivnir". riuiHf, ir. .mi. iimi mt- wiiiriu i inu'is aim itoim-
from tlie KntiMite "Allies an answer which w ill demand that the. Teu
tons must make full reparation as their contribution to ieav. is the
jrist of uewspajKT articles here today.
The French version of the answer of the Allies to the Oermau jK'ace
rroMsaIs will lie handwl t the 'American ambassador. William (!.
Mjjirp, tonight for transmission to the ieutons says the newspaiHT
Petit Parisien, and will be published tomorrow. . .-'..;' -
This answer, which is NintMscd tit Ix idtntir:il with tlust iif tin
other Allies, sets forth again the responsibility of the Teuton for
kindling the Kuroian conflagration of war, and insists oil legitimate,
reparation for the deeds of the (Vntral Powers, and on the restitu
tions ilemandeil by the Kntente group, and outlined by Preniier Duvitl
-iiou vieorge oi jiriram. ; , .';
It says that Germany, by failing to formulate proHsals- for'
jKace, i-emort's in advance any basis for pourparlers, or negotiations
prelinnuary to a eaee conference. The note seeks to suggest to the
Perlin cabinet, that, having proclaimed in P.I14 it- ciintenipt for
treaties, the cabinet cannot now pretend "to obtain the same condi
tions as nations which are respectful of signatures, and that (Jer
many must offer guarantees of its willingness to abide by treaties.
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS
GERM AX. ARMY HEADQUAR
TERS. Dec. ; 28. In isolated sections
of the eastern war arena, on parts of
the Flanders front and Somfl;bend,
there was today temporarily strong
artillery fire; The air forces being
very lively, the enemy lost In air
fights or by our defense guns eight
aeroplanes. ; ,
Last arena. Prince Leopold's front:
In several places on the front our gar
risons repulsed advances of Russian
raiding detachments.
Archduke Josepn's front: In Ludo
va forest, Carpathians, German rifles
drove away strong Russian patrols In
hand grenade attacks. The general
fighting activity has Increased In sev
erar parts of the mountains.
Von Mackensen's army group: De
cember 27 brought to Gen. Falken
hayn's forces a complete victory in
battle near Rimnicul Sarat over the
Russians summoned to Rumania's as
sistance. The enemy, who were de
feated, 1) ceraber 27 tried to regain
lost ground by counter-thrusts of
strong masses, but attacks failed.
Prussian and Itavarian infantry press
ed behind enemy, who held back. The
enemy's new iwsftlons were taken by
stampede : and our troops pushed
ahead. At the same time, further
southeast, German and Austro-Hun-garian
troops pierced the strongly in
trenched Rusisan lines and repulsed
here also violent counter attacks made
against the flank and advanced the
fighting in a northeast direction.
The enemy again iu defeat suffered
bloody losses. Yesterday 3000 prison
ers and 22 machine guns were taken
by us. Thu prisoners taken in the
engagements of our ninth army near
Rimnicul Sarat now total 10.220 Rus
sians. " '.
The Danube army yesterday was in
partial engagements only. In the Dob-
rudja Bulgarian and Turkish troops
succeeded in throwing the Russians
from a fortified height east of Ma-
cin. On the .Macedonian front, north
east of Doiran lake, several English
companies after a strong fire prepa
ration attacked unsuccessfully some
Bulgarian outposts.
German Army Headquarters, Dec.
29. West front. Crown Princes army.
On the west bank of the Meuse yes
terday on Height 304 and on the south
slope of Morthomme (Deadman s
Hfll) parts of infantry regiments Nos.
13 and 155 and of Fusilier Regiment
37, all gloriously known for their dash
at the Somme, made. advances into
French positions. Detailed prepara
tion by artillery and by often-tested
mine-throwers, which by their effi
ciency have become indispensible
weapons for infantry, opened to the
advancing detachments a road to the
second and third lines of hostile po
sitions, from which 222 prisoners,
among whom were, four officers, and
sevtn machine guns, were brought
back,- " .:";'
In the conquered trenches several
French counter-attacks repeated also
in the night-time were repulsed. From
the forest of Cheppy and Malancoart
brave soldiers from the Wuertemberg
and Baden forces brought In several
prisoners from hostile positions.
East arena: Nothing new on Prince
Leopold's front ."
Archduke Joseph's front: South
wing of army group commanded by
Gen. Gerok, In coordination with the
movements of the great Wallacbian
forces, advanced eastward In the
(Contrjjrer on page two)
PARLEY DEi:
Rumor Second L'ote
Sent to Combatants
UMK)X, fcnjc:, DrrCMf. It is
rumored hertr that President Wil
son hals sent to tlie bellig?rent8 ii
secoud note, explanatory of the
nrsr. m wuun iu- suggested the
t ij iuui Ki I ill -miF .. n ! ,0m ' 4 1 .
yytrrwjwwv . in ret. unu niMii iiirr
warring nations a statement of
the demands they are fighting for.
WASHINGTON. 1), (, liv.
-T-Ik'cause of the siience policy
maintained by the pixvident and
Seci-etary Lansing. Mr. Iansing
would not comment today upon
t he report t hat an explaua tory
note has In'en sent the Teutons
and the Entente Allies, to correct
a misinterpretation of the presi
dent's note.
llil ' ' II 0 f I
int-in .iu: wt'i.i-iuioniiCTj iin nn
say they arc sure there was no sec
ond note, and that the Uerlin des
psitch re fern 'to the two Iinsing
statements made the day after the
despatch of the original note. ; ;
iTEUTON FORCES STEADILY
SUBJUGATING RUMANIANS
DEKLIN, Germany, Dec. .'J0.
The Teuton armies campaigning
in Transylvania liave entered en
trenched Husso-Rumanian iosi
tions and poshed ahead notwith
standing, counter-attacks. The
Russian and Romanian armies aie
bein driven back from the front
lietween the luoontaius and the
Danube river.
PETKOG RAD, Russia, pec. 30.
The Teutons today continued
their .attacks northeast of Rimni
cul Karat, in Central Rumania,
capturing Birdestcbi on the river
Rimnik. They have pressed back
the Russians near Zalesti.
Insurance Rates
Go Up On Rumors
NEW YORK, XOu, Dec '.Ml
Marine insurance rates here have
taken a sharp upward course,
which is attributed to the fact
that the French steamer Voltaire,
from Liverpool, is overdue. ; It is
rumored she has been captured
by a German raider and a prize,
crew put aboard. Other vessels
are missing.
CARS RUN LATER
Announcement was made this morn
ing by tne Rapid Transit Company
that cars will run an hour later to
night to accommodate be!t?d hc:lzy
pleasure seekers.
