TA.S.S I::
the tlio
yifEATHER FORECAST for Kansas:
Fair tonight a-wi Sunday; rMnlf
temperature In the northwest Sunday.
liijrli cost of
iiiruliiig will he
cut.
HOME EDITION
TOPEKA. KANSAS, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 30, 1916 TEN PAGES
TWO CENTS
LAVSON HANDS
HOT ONE BACK
TO WASHINGTON
Gracious to Betsy, Why the
Rush? He Queries.
PRESIDENT SENT
SECOND NOTE TO
NATIONSAT WAR
Surprised They Don't Grasp
Meaning of Message.
DANCES TO AID CHILDREN OF FRANCE
INAUGURATION
WITHOUT FUSS
ORJFEATHERS
Pomp and Unusual Ceremony
Will Be Omitted.
EMPOWERS U, S.
SANTA FE GIVES
CITY $15,000 FOR
"RIPLEY" PARK
Railway Extends Cheek for
w Tear's Greetings.
TO CONFISCATE
IG SHIP YARDS
Proposed Law Would Rush
Warship Contracts.
Resents Germany's Attempt to
Shift Responsibility.
Reply to Germany Delivered
This Afternoon in Paris.
REFRESETS TEN NATIONS
"Germany Wanted, Provoked
and Declared the War."
Spurned Efforts to Avert War
and Ravished Belgium.
Paris, Dec. 30. The allies to
day formally refused to enter
peace negotiations with Ger
many without knowing what
conditions the Teutonic powers
have to propose.
The note of the allies replying
to Germany as announced this
evening, charges that the Ger
man proposal appears more like
a war measure than a peace pro
position. -. Die. So. The allied reply to
rniiip peace proposals was de-
tin:
livt red t neu'i-nl diplomats heie this
afit't'iioon.
l not s lirst resents Germany's at
tempt to throw n the allies the re
spoi Mbility of war.
The note handed to the diplomats
at 7 o'clock, said:
The allied governments of Bel
gium. France. Gres.t Britain. Italy,
Japan. Montenegro. Portugal. Russia.
Jiuminiii and Serbia, united. in the
defence of the liberty of people in inn?
f ivnKernent. -have decided collectively
to answer tha ro-cal'Ud pence proposal.
Victory Claim "L'ntrue."
"First of all the allies protest
aslIiist the enemj's assertions at
icmp'iTisr to throw on the allies re
IMinsiMlit v for the war
"Also the proelamaiton of the cen
tral powers claim. ng victory. Both as
sertions are untrue.
Kor thirty months the allies h:iv3
sustained the war which they did the
Utmost to prevent and they have
showed 1 y their acts their attachment
for peace.
This attachment is just as strong
too:.-- as in 1914.
The proposal appears more like a
w:t maneuver than an offer of peace.
f far as the past is concerned,
the (Herman) note ignores facts, dates
and figures showing that Germany
wanted. provoked untl declared the
war.
"At The Hague, it was the German
delee-'tio:i that refused the disarma
ment proposal in July. 1914. It was
Au-tt-ia that declared war on Serbia.
"The i entral powers refused all at-
te
f'i
i pt to slop the conflict; they re
nd Kagland's offer for a conference;
,.,.. nffpr fi,r no international
Kr
mmi.-sion, and the czar's arbitration
prop.
.sal.
.Iiiimn .-, Invuiliul bv th. OIYIIlirft
which proclaimed that treaties were
scraps of paper."
LOADED VV1TH WEALTH
American Refugees From Tori-eon
tarry Fortune in Bar Silver.
1 :i 1 'a so. Tex., Deo. 30. Informa- j
t i i i tending to confirm the reported I
capture of Saltillo by Villistas, Thurs- j
tlay. i. in the hands of T'nited States 1
authorities here today. Upon the ap
proach of the bandit forces a small !
ga rrison of government troops which
had jrsi reached the city so rrondered
uiui j.Kiitd the VillittHs, according to
mlvk-es reaching the border. A divi- ,
.sion of Villa's army is now marening
toward Monterey, it was reported in ;
J ua rez t niay.
'arrying bullion worth several hun
dred thousand dollars the party of 1
Americans which fld from Torreon
In-fore Villi's occupation of the city
and reached San Luis I'otosi, yester-
day started for the border.
CUT DOWN SHORTAGE
Southern 1'acific Carries Coast Freight
1- Steamer-Rail Route.
San Francisco, Cal., Dec. 30. The
car shortage problem is being solved
ly the railroads. Altho the Southern
I'acific is now taking all of the freight
oflered for New York liy the Galves
ton and steamer route, and altho the
eompany is called on to carry by the
southern route the freight that form
erly went by the Ogilen gateway and
the Inii.n Pacific, the shortage iii
California Is steadily lessening.
The shortage has' dwindled to 1.200
box cars and 50'j oil cars, the smallest
in months.
NO, 13 A HOODOO IN CRASH
CF CHICAGO STREET CARS
t'hitago, Dec. 30. Number 13 is
a "hoodoo for nearly a pcore of
persons injured today in a crash be
tween two street cars numbered
1313 and 521-. Kinhten injured
will recover.
"Yes, I'll Come to Capital"
With "Leak" Story.
WALL ST. TIPS 40 YEARS OLD
Capitol Wallowing in Leak (
Grafts All the Time.
"Can't Get My Sanity Before
Tuesday Tho," Says 'ote.
Boston. Mhps., Dec. 30. Thomas W.
Lawson today sent word to Represen
tative Henry, chairman of the house
committee today, telling him that on
Sunday he will send three thousand
words to him on the subject of "leaks"'
to Wall street, regarding the presi
dents "peace mtisage" and that New
Year's he will visit Washington and
on Tuesday sit in the capitol gallery
and listen to debate.
The telegram says in part:
"My Dear Congressman:
received your second telegram at
midnight on my arrival from New
York. Gracious to Ketsy, you are in
a rush! the one 1 got in New York
fairly yelled 'hustle for Washington.'
and this one shrinks 'come on! come
on!! come on!!!' What's the trouble,
congressman '.' What's your game ?
The good old capitol has been wal
lowing in Wall street leak grafts for
forty years wallowing hale and hear
ty, so why throw conniptions? If I did
not know you, congressman, the hard
headed statesman and sturdy cross
lugger, mountain-climber and shrine
kneeler you are, I would, from read
ing your telegrams, conclude that you
have been studying up on Hoyle and
Schenk in an endeavor to put your
bob-tail over as an ace full.
You and WcmkI Started It.
"You fill the press with 'put up or
shut u.ps' as tho you hoped to get my
nanny before congress opens Tuesday.
It won't work, congressman, it really
won't. You and Wood started this
'leak' merry go round then you sort
of run me into it thru your press
statements and then you made me the
whole of it and in your last telegram
""tbier thing thatyou. Lawson, -have
name tho leak cT the" state depart
ment Now I say, congressman, have
a heart, have a heart!
"No, congressman, you can not have
my game before Tuesday's congres
sional opening. You sure can't. I
would not be giving myself a square
deal to give it to you before.
"You won't mind it, congressman,
will you, this refusal of mine to let
you get my billy, particularly when I
give my permission for you to go right
along lambasting h into me! This is
my program:
Send 3,000 Word "Bit" Tomorrow.
"Tomorrow T will give you a serious
3.000-word bit. then, if you wish. I will
visit you New Year's day. Then on
Tuesday, from the gallery, I will listen
to you and the other statesmen who
missed out on the 'leak' lambast me
some more and then I will come back
home and resume my 'leak crochet
ing, the wiser and God wills, the more
righteous citizen.
(Signed)
"THOMAS W. LAWSON."
BREAK WITH U. S.
Carranza Plans to Issue Dec
laration of War Soon.
Would Rather Be Licked by
Uncle Sam Than by Villa.
Kl Paso, Tex., Dec. 30. Mexico will
declare war against the United States
within ninety days or sooner if Villa
succeeds In taking Tampico and the
rich oil properties there.
This is the information received
from mining men who have been in
close touch with their agents in Mex
ico. The information set forth that Car
ranza's declaration of war against the
United States was certain within
ninety days and might take place
within a month, but that the taking of
Tampico at any time would be the
piirnal. The excuse will be the refusal
of the United States to withdraw Gen
eral Pershing's punitive expedition.
To Thwart Villa.
The real reason for such a move is
declared to be Carranza's unwilling
ness to be humiliated by being deposed
by Villa. The loss of the rich Tam
pico oil fields, Carranza's chief source
of revenue, would be the final crush
ing blow to the de facto chief. The
fact that Villa Is near to taking this
town is strengthened by reports that
Saltillo has fallen into his hands.
Saltillo is only fifty miles from Mon
terey, which is expected to be occu
pied by the bandit forces with little
trouble. Saltillo is the second town
between Torreon and Monterey taken
by Villa, San Pedro having been cap
tured last Monday.
Carranza's idea is that he will fare
better at the hands of the United
States at the end of a war than he
would at the hands of Villa and that
it would be less humiliating. Those
close intouch with internal affairs de
clare that the fall of his government
is- close at hand.
Former Manhattan Mayor Dead.
Manhattan, Kan., Dec. 30. George
T. Fielding, former mayor of this city,
died at his home here early today. He
was 71 years old and had been active
thruout his long residence here in
grain and livestock raising. He was
born In England and at one time lived
in Kansas City, Mo.
Washington Elucidates W ilson's
Three Main Points.
ALLIES' ANSWER TOMORROW
M ill Be Handed to IT. S. Ain-
Itassador and Published.
Three Scandinavian Vo.es De
livered at War Capitols.
Berlin, via London, Dec. 30. It has
been learned that a few days ago
President "Wilson sent a second note
explanatory of th first. tothe central
powers and the entente nations. This
note has not been presented.
The reason for the withholding of
the second note is said to be that the
German reply, received in the interim
showed that the German government
had not been influenced by the "mis
conception regarding the purpose and
aims of President Wilson's step which
an unfriendly press in both camps at
tributed thereto."
Landing Silent on Second Note.
Washington. Dec. 30. Secretary
Lansing refused to comment in any
way on the report that a second ex
planatory note had been sent both to
the central powers and to the entente
allies to correct misinterpretations of
the president's note calling for peace
terms. He indicated that under the
recent policy of silence adopted by
President Wilson and himself in the
peace negotiation he would make no
statement either affirming or denying
such reports.
Secretary Lansing has been most
emphatic ever since his two state
ments were issued in saying that the
president's note was absolutely self
explanatory and required no further
comment. He has stated also that no
special instructions were sent to the
American diplomats as to the manner
of presenting the note. Intimations
that the misunderstanding abroad,
particularly in the public mind, might
be dispelled by official statements
from here, have met with an unfavor
able reception. 1
Washington Pettrta Onfr Reasons:
Washington, Dec. 30. The Amerl- ;
can government, it became known, :
by authorities, believes there are three
principal points in its note to bellig
erents and is surprised that they have
not been more clearly understood, par
ticularly b the press of the entente
allies. These points, taken in iheir or
der of importance from the adminis
tration viewpoint, are:
The fear i.iat the position of neu
tral nations be "rendered altogether
intolerable" if the war continues.
The suggestion that arrangement
he made as a guarantee against con
flicts In the future.
The proposal that means be found
for comparing the concrete peace
terms of both sides.
The last point has aroused most
comment and the first was empha
sized by Secretary Lansing's state
ment, afterwards modified, that the
United States itself might be verging
into the war.
The administration however believ
ed the suggestion for an arrangement
to preserve peace in the future would
attract more attention among the en
tent allies than apparently it has.
Present Scandinavian Notes.
Berlin, Dec. 30. The Scandinavian
peace notes were presented today to
the foreign offices in Berlin and
(Continued on Page Two.)
THANKSjOfcLON
Topekan Furnishes Transportation for
j Unfortunates to Show.
I Scores of unfortunate children will
have a "Happy New Year" Monday
afternoon as the guests of the State
Journal at the picturization of "Twen
l ty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea"
1 at the Grand.
Crippled children and shut-ins, the
children from the Orphans' Home, the
Provident association and the Boys'
Industrial school will be given tickets
! for the screen version of Jules Verne's
j great romance.
Crippled children and shut-ins may
secure tickets by calling or 'phoning
to the State Journal office. And they
will be furnished transportation thru
the generosity of John Price Dillon,
who has chartered sufficient jitney
i busses for all. When calling for tick
;ets do not forget to leave your address
' so that the big bus will not forget you
! in its rounds. Tickets may be secured
: until Monday noon.
i Children from the Providont asso
ciation may receive their tickets by
applying for them at the State Journal
office. Tickets have aiready been sent
' to the Orphans' Home and the Boys'
' Industrial school.
IDEAL WINTER DAYS
!
j Nothing But Fine Weather In Sight
; in Kansas.
Hourly temperature readings fur
nishod by the wtather bureau:
7 o'clock 16 11 o'clock..
1 8 o'clock 16 12 o'clock..
9 o'clock ..... 20 1 o'clock..
j 10 o'clock 24 2 o'clock..
! Temperatures todpy averaged
...33
...35
2 de.
grees below normal. The wind is
blowing at the rate of 5 miles an hour
I from the nor'h.
I Fine weather is on tap for the final
I spasm of 1916, according to local
! weather observers. Today was mod
j erate and Sunday is expected to be
! warmer, with nothing in the way of a
j storm or bad weather in sight. To
j morrow night there will be moonlight
' until nearly 2 o'clock in the morning.
so conditions will be unusually favor
i (Coutluued on I' age TwTj
nnn4wuai mini 1 " ""'j..iu..i.ii.iii.t..iijmj..u iv
yLm.. --f ..rf rfiTi iTiiw.f i-i -"aiwif -i "gin ml
J
Miss Lillian Emerson
Lillian Emerson, a nine-year-ofd North Carolina gir who has danced
before Princess Mary in London and her guests. Queen Mother Alexandra
the dowager empress of Russia. Dowager Queen Amelie of Portugal and
ex-King Manuel of Portugal, was "the- principal entertainer at a recent
entertainment in Washington for the benefit of a fund td prevent the spread
of tuberculosis in France. Little Miss Emerson, whose dancing is a mar
velous example of spontaneous grace, is a protege of J. B. and N. B Duke,
of North Carolina and New York and of Mrs. Ltwrence Townsend of
Washington.
DON'T WANT MUCH
" ' i
Allies' Peace Terms Summar
ized hy the Spectator.
Demand Most Everything Kai
ser's Got and Then Some.
London. Dec. 30. Tle Spectator,
devotes the greater part of today's Is
sue to answering President Wilson's
question as to what are the terms of
peace of the entente allies. Briefly
summarized the principal demands as
outlined by the Spectator follow:
the statu auo before the war thtis in
cluding the evacuation of the whole &f
northern France, Belgium and, Luxem
burg, and of all lands taken from Ser
bia, Rumania, Russia and Montenegro.
Alsace-Lorraine is to be restored to
France. The Danish . portion of
Schleswig-Holstein is to go to Den
mark and Posen, Polish Prussia and .
Austrian Poland are to be added to
the new sub-kingdom of Poland which
the czar has pledged to create.
"The Slavs of Bosnia, Herzgovina,
Dalmatia, Croatia, - etc., are to be
created into a new kingdom.
"Bohemia is to be an Independent
state. The Rumanian section of Tran
sylvania to be added to Rumania.
"The whole Austrian Tyrol, plus
Trieste, Istria, and the other portions
of Austria which are Italian in blood
or feeling to be added to Italy.
"Turkey to yield Constantinople and
the straits to Russia.
"The Armenians to be put under
Russian tutelage.
"The Arabs to be freed while Syria,
Asia Minor and Mesopotamia are to
be under external protection guar
anteeing tranquillity.
"The German colonies to remain n
the hands of the entente. Moreover,
a money indemnity for the ruin Ger
many has done in Belgium, France,
Montenegro, etc.
"As regarding shipping Germany
to make reoaration in kind for all
ships of commerce destroyed, ton for
ton, neutral shipping to De repiaceu
only after all the demands of tne al
lies have been satisfied.
"The German navy to be handed
over and distributed among entente
nations.
"As a guarantee against future war.
the allies are to insist upon the demo
cratization of the German government.
"The Kiel canal to be neutralized
under an international German com
mission, including the entente coun
tries, the United States and other
neutrals."
CONFISCATES COAL
Des Moines Mayor Takes Extreme f a British destroyer attracted by the
ues i ... firing. Two shots were fired by the
Measures to Provide for Poor. j submersible, the men said. Captain
. Z , j Crinka stopped the vessel and the men
Des Moines la.. Dec 30. The mu- . getting into the lifeboats when
nicipal coal office has two carloads of : h destroyer hove. into sight. The sub
coal purchased secretly outs.de of Ms marine ia described aa of a ane
county, due to be delivered here today. , '
Mayor John MacVicar confiscated a i te0deldXtaok
carload late yesterday. i F . , .
Poor families unable to buy from; rr f O rTlim rl aiti
dealers on account of the local coal: J)to rAIHtn -LAIN
famine received the city coal at cost, j v'1-,'
Additional fuel was purchased secretly I :.
by Mayor MacVicar, he said, to pre- l'ive- ear-Old Describes Robbers V. ho
vent tne coal operators ui wising pres
sure to bear on the seller.
MacVicar claims the famine is due
partly to a combination to keep down
production and hold-np the price.
AUTO REPAIR SCHOOLS
' ; nish the only clues by which Chief
Kansas Will Establish Departments In i Whelan and members of the Ham
Prisons. ' tramck police department are trying
. i to track the slayers of Joseph Marty
Kansas will establish automobile re- jniak and John Jaskolski.
pair schools at Lansing state prison j Martyniak and Jaskolski. his father
and Hutchinson reformatory if a bill i in-law, were killed last night in their
urged by Governor Capper today be I little grocery and meat store in Ham
enacted by the state legislature. The 1 tramck. Martyniak's wife, Agnes, wai
measure is approved by members of shot in the side.
the state beard of corrections.
The schools will be in charge of effi- j Hunt Two Runaway Girls.
cient mechanics end young men who
desire to learn trades will have an op
portunity to enter the schools. It is
the governor's plan to equip prison
men for work at the expiration, of
their sentence and in his judgment
motor repair work affords a good
opening at excellent pay.
in one of her dances.
ILLION IN BONDS
Y. Stock Exchange Sets "ew
Record for Year.
Gold Influx 6S4 Million by Far
Greatest in History.
New York. Dec. 30. Dealing in
bonds on the New York stock ex
change during the year which closed
yesterday totaled a par value of $1,
158,209,000 and set a new record. The
total in'1915 was $951,788,000.
"SCotat dealings in stocks for 1916
feM,'T6S;O0e";-sliaresi-ttoirfrparert
with "17S,389,-000 in 1915. The year's
dealings in stocks have been exceeded
only on three previous occasions, in
1901, 1905 and 1906. The record was
set in 1906 with 284,063,459 shares.
There were seventy-six days during
the year in which stock exchange trad
ing exceeded 2.000.000 shares and on
December 21 transactions reached the
high water mark of more than 3,000,
000 shares.
,lold Imports of Year.
New York, Dec. 30.t The inflow of
gold thi week carried the total of the
year's imports to $684,700,000. This
is by far the greatest amount of gold
to enter the United States in a single
year.
The total of imports for the week in
behalf of the British treasury amounts
to $53,600,000.
Foreign Commerce Breaks Record.
New York, Dec. 50. Breaking all
previous records, the foreign com
merce of the port of New York today
reached $4,069,127,047, for the calen
dar year 1916. Thi-j is $1,313,465,021
greater than the volume of foreign
commerce ever carried on in New
York before. With the total foreign
business of the country estimated at
$8,000,000,000. it is apparent that
more than half of the foreign com
merce ol the country is carried on
thru New York.
These figures issued by Dudley
Field Malone, collector of the port, are
baaea on th'e December movements
which are average statistics.
SHIP ESCAPED SINKING
L'-Iloat Ready to Destroy Steamer
When Warships Hove in Sight.
New York, Dec. 30. The British
freight steamship Chicago City from
Bristol, Eng.. December 11, was fired
on and stopped by a. German subma
rine on December 14, when about 120
mill's off Fastnet according to a report
of the crew on her arrival here today.
The Chicago City was paved from
being sunk by the timely appearance
Shot Three in Store.
Detroit, Mich., Dec. 30. Meager
description given by a 5-year-old girl,
who stood shielding her baby brother
while three robbers shot her father
and grandfather to death and prob
ably fatally wounded her mother, fur-
i Chicago. Dec.- 30. The police of
Memphis, Tenn., wired the Chicago
police today to watch the trains and
hotels for Alice Gronauer, 18, and
Dorothy Summerfield, daughters of
j well-to-do people of Memphis, who
j were said to have .ran away from
i home. .
There Will Be So Parade or
Gold Lace.
ONLY TWO NEW OFFICIALS
All Will Take Oath of Office
.Monday, January 8.
A Public Reception Will
Held in Evening.
Be
State officials will be inaugurated
January 8 without pomp or undue
ceremony. Plans by the inaugural
committee call for elimination of the
inaugural parade. Ceremonies at the
state house will be short and simxIe.
The reception at night will be decid
edly informal, with a general tend
ency toward a ban on head waiter
clothea.
Just two new state officials are to
be inaugurated. They are "Walter L.
Payne of Burlingame, state treasm-er-elect;
and Fred V. Knapp of Bcloit,
state auditor-elect. Other" state offi
cials will be in the inaugural line and
will take their oath of office for
second terms. Governor Capper's in
augural speech will be the one im
portant address during the noon-day
ceremonies in Representative hall.
In 1913, the Democrats put new
action in inaugural ceremonies in
Kansas when George II. Hodges be
came governor. A military parade
with brass bands, low neck hack3, cut
flowers and ladies in waiting were
some of the features that made the
Piodges induction into office a 33d de
gree society event. The bands will
play this year, but only at the state
house. There will be a military es
cort and usual firing of cannon and
waving of flags. But there will be no
parades and state officials will take
their oath of office under rather mod
est settings.
Chief Justice W. A. Johnston will
administer the oath of office to Gov
ernor Capper and all other state of
ficials. New and retiring officials will
be seated together ..during ' the .in
augural ceremonies, with reserved
seats for families and guests of offi
cials. The Inaugural Address.
Following the taking of the oath of
office. Governor Capper will deliver
his inaugural speech. lie will talk
ftrty or fifty minutes. His speech will
define the policies of hia administra
tion dxiring his second two-year term
and will be a message of state-wide
concern. No other state officials will
speak during the ceremonies, which
are slated to begin promptly at noon.
Following the inauguration of the
state officials, a salute of seventeen
guns will be fired by Battery A, of
Topeka.
The inaugural reception will be held
Monday night at the state house. The
reception will be open ,to the public,
many prominent men and women of
the state being in the reception line.
Following the reception by state of
ficials, new members of the legislature
will receive in the house and senate
chambers on the third floor of the
state house.
Both branches of the legislture will
orsamze jnonuay anernoon. iouowing
me luauuidi eiuuiijea. wemoers
of the legislature, however, will not
take their oath of office until Tuesday
morning, when supreme court Justices
will swear in the law makers. The leg
islators will receive the oath in blocks
of ten members. The governor's mes
sage to the legislature will probably
be read Wednesday, January 10. It is
probable Governor Capper will per
sonally appear before both houses with
his recommendations for the session.
State officials to receive the oath of
office at the Inaugural January 8, are:
Supreme court Justices: Silas Porter,
Kansas City; J. s. West, Topeka. Gov
ernor: Arthur Capper. Topeka. Sec
retary of State: J. T. Botkin. Galena.
Attorney General: S. M Brew.oter
Troy. Treasurer: Walter I. Pavne.
Burnngame. Auditor: Fred W
Knapp. Beloit. Superintendent of Pub
lic Instruction: W. D. Ross, Topeka.
Superintendent of Insurance: Carey
J. Wilson, Topeka. State Printer: W.
R. Smith, Columbus.
TO SHIELD MATERNITY
Nation's Duty to Prevent Worry and
Work, Miss Ijithrop Declares.
Columbus. O., Dec 30 Doctrines ter class restaurants about J40 to cele- I them had to reduce their contracts for
new to many of the delegates came ' brate, distributed as follows: : paper at this time and to pay nearly 5
today from the lips of a federal gov- ' Dinner, with wine, 16: tips. 2: Per cn more than this item has cost
?rnment worker. Miss Julia Lathron : theatre. $4; pupper. $9; tips, $1.&0; them heretofore. The rise in snbscrip
head of the Federal Children's bureau i taxicabs, 7.5U. tions announced today ranged from ZO
It was of the rights of mothers that ' Thirteen thousand table reservations to 33 1-3 per cent,
she spoke, rights which society must ! have been made at the leading down-- ,. , ,. '
recognize in every possible way Not i town restaurants. rrre aiicriu Maj,T of Url.
to take the action which she recom- j U-,. i!oin'' ,a- t- SO. Kimm a.
mended is for society, to imperil itsiTfl PflMTFT RflVFRNflR ' ' - c'e-l today of any
own continued existence, she said i IU,WUlllLOI UU timUU connection with the death of Klizabetii
Miss Lathrop said: ! j Watts, who Judge Mershon declared a
"Society owes a debt to motherj. It
can pay this debt only in part bv
guaranteeing to the expectant mother
rl frftm . t-r-1 - and u-1 . t- L- t V. l . , .
medical care, and a reasonable period
for rppnvprv -t ft it th l.irth . 1 .
little one.
"The public protection of maternity
is a business, upon which we should
have embarked long ago," added -vliss
Lathroi-
ROBBERS KILL WATCHMAN
Surprised Cracksman at Work on Safe
and They Fired.
Chicago. Dec. 30. Cracksmen shot! '"" Commission Head Resigns,
and killed Samuel Folger, night watch-j Des Moir.es. la., Dec. 30. Clifford
man of the Hamilton Bishop Coal i Thorne. chairman of the Iowa rail
company, early today when Folger aur- road commission, totay resigned that
j prised them attempting to blow the I office to become b-pecial counsel of the
j company's safe. The cracksmen es- International Lave Stock Shippers' as
caped. Jsociation.
ayy to Enforce Preference
Over Private Jobs.
409 MILLION APPROPRIATION
I
Includes Three 42,000 Ton
Superdreadnaughts.
Expect to Have House Bill
Ready by January 15.
Washington. Dec. .30. A drastic
proposal designed to furnish authority
under which private manufacturers or
ship builders would be compelled to
give preference to navy work has been
submitted by Secretary Daniels to the
house naval committee for inclusion
in the 1918 naval appropriation bill
consideration of which will be resumed
next week. It provides that where con- i mly tnat tne ci(y of Topeka would add
tracts or order? have been placed, "fori tQ tMs fum, making a tota f
mHnto TXrultt'T tor improvements on the new
the making of munitions," the secre- ! Kast side park. The improvements,
tarv in his discretion, may require the wnich are to be installed before sum
fulfillment of the work ahead of any ! mer arp.
undertaking for private enterprise. i ' lmnr,cmcw.
Should the contractor fail to comply 1 nc Ipro-mcnis.
thru neglect, delay or refusal, the wee- A swimming pool large enough to
retary would be authorized to take , ac.commodate 150 at one time,
over the plant and complete the work. auditorium, or shelter house,
charging the contractor with all costs ( .
in excess of the stipulated contract j 'arge enough to seat 2.000 people,
price. A band stand.
Will Endorse Daniels' Program. j Kxtension to present lighting sys-
The item is one of the few cases of I tern so that the entire park of twenty
new legislation included in the navy , six acres will be lighted,
bill and Chairman Padgett of the i Surfacing all driveways and walks,
house committee, expects to have It Picnic tables and benches,
ready by the middle of January despite ) Fencing,
the fact that it carries a total of near- Brick picnic ranges,
ly $400,000,000. He believes his com- "Thanks to the generosity ol E P.
mittee will recommend the 1918 con- ; Ripley, president of the Santa Fe. and
struction program proposed by Secre- : the board of directors, the people of
tarv Daniels, which inciudes three the East side will have in two short
4 2,000 ton battleships, one battle cruls- i years a park equipped as well as any
er and about one-half of the re-! park in the city," said Commissioner
mainder of the three-year program in i Porter today,
smaller ships. I Interested From First.
CROWN NEW RULER i
Curious Medieval Ceremony af
Karl's Coronation.
time information was received mai-
1 rectlv that K. P. Kipley. predent of
Initiate "ew Hungary Elliperor the Santa Fe was intensely interested
; in the propostion and had stated that
With 5-Pound I rOWn. if the park were properly managed he
I might arrange for some excellent im-
provementa It was the State Journal
Budapest, Dec. 30 (via Berlin). i that named the big park after K. P.
The pomp and ceremony and regalia Kipley, the railroad president, who 1
of royalty almost overshadowed the ready had done so much for Topeka.
sorrows of war here today the day of) The first year Commissioner Porter
the coronation of King Karl an em- ; did all he could in installing improve
peror of Hungary. The youthful sue- : ments commensurate with the park
cesser to the noted Franz Josef was to ! levy. The work done and spirit shown
be formally invested with the crown . by the city commission in endeavoring
at 9 o'clock tonight in the church of ' to do the best it could for the east id
St. Mathew. following a solemn re- ! park seemed to please the Santa F
ligious ceremony conducted by Car- I officials. For two months' negotta-
dinal Czernoch.
Hopes for Early Peace.
Berlin, Dec 30. Budapest dis
patches quote Emperor Karl as say
ing to Count Julius Andrassy during
the reception yesterday: "Our ene-
! mies are finally commencing to under-
; stand that they cannot conquer us.
I
have therefore reason to hope that the ! benefit district has been created to ac
loval offers of the central powers have j quire the property and no special aa
brought us nearer to peace." j sessments will be made to cover the
1 improvements as the park wu pur-
HIGH LIFE HARD HIT !trsreart;rrki,te;7"th funda lrom
i Upon the receipt of the tlS.OAO front
About .$10 "Per'
Year's Eve ii
to Celebrate Xew ;
Style at Eriwco.
, , ,
San Francisco. Dec. 30. The high
COSt Ol living nas OIL cttii r idiiyiu a ,
New Year celebration a hard blow. f
Thin ,rAo-'ta folohra tinn will rrwt Ssin !
Franci.coans about $375,000, whereas j
year's revelry. High Cost of Paper Eorew Many to
Prominent restaurateurs estimated Quit; Others Consolidate. ,
today that 50,000 persons will cele- '
brate tomorrow night in this city and i -New York, Dec. 30. Owing- to tho
that the average cost per celebra tor i Increased coat of white paper and oh-.
will be about JT.50. ' er materials necessary to printing and
Here are some of the things that ' art work, several magazines of nation
have made celebrating costly this year: al circulation announced today in
Confetti has gone up in price more creases in the price of subscription,
than 100 per cent. i other periodicals have already given
Tin horns have advanced in price , notice of a similar Jump in prices,
nearly 200 per cent. Several of the smaller magazines lis
Katables of all kinds and wines I N'ew York have cuppended publication
have advanced enormously. ; and others are planning to merge wita
John Tait,' prominent restaurateur, . publications controlled by the earn
today, estimated that it will cost Mr. : int"ls-
' npnrir uhn .ake. hi eij-i to th i-t-
; Judflc Lamm, Defeated Candidate in
n
Missouri, to Demand Recount.
: nouncement made here today by Judge
1 i . t ' .1 . . t ; , .-j . , . . .1
1 didate for governor on the Republican
j ticket, was taken to mean by other
1 members of his party that he would
' rentes! the election of Frederick D.
i Garuner. the successful Democratic
candidate.
j "In all proba bility there will be a
j contest," he said. "Further than that.
! 1 hav? no definite announcement to
mane.
3Ioney for Improvements fi
East Side's Grove.
BUILD HUGE SWIMMING POOL
Auditorium and Band Stand To
Be Included.
Municipality Adds $5,000 to
Railway's Present.
Announcement was made today that
the Santa Fe will five a 1 15.000 New
Year's present to the city of Topek
and their shop men in particular, in
the form of a check to W. L. I'orter,
commissioner of parks and play
grounds. This money will be expend
ed in improving Kipley park.
Commissioner I'orter announced t-
It was because of the park's accessi
bility to the families of the shop men
that the Santa Fe volunteered tho
?1 5.000 girt. For years there had been
agitation for an east side park. Two
-years ago Commissioner Porter pre
sented a. resolution to the city com
mission which provided for the pur
chase of the long sought park. At that
tions have been carried on between .
President Kipley and the city commis
sion thru the medium of Horace Hall
aa spokesman for the city.
No Extra Assessment.
"It should he understood." said
Commissioner Porter today, -that no
the Santa Fe. the $5,000 of the crrjr
will be added and a Ripley Park Im
provement fund established. Bids' will
ue aoveriispu ior anu cuninay iwirq
! ed for nstaning the improvementa
MAGAZINE PRICES UP
. Publishers explain that manv i'f
. .y cyaniue. i tie court held
I the mother s charge that Widener
i forced the poison down the girl's
throat was contradicted by testimony
'.'f. Wltn"s showing Widener
.MISS WattS pait"d eood frienri.
and
an I
, lnal a''e Old not take the poison unul
I evera' hours later.
MOTHER-IN-LAW ACQUITTED
AS DOMESTIC GRiEF MAKER
Chicago, Dp. 30. Mother--ii-law
a's domestic trouble makers.
Ptand acquitted. Only 1 pr rent
of the caos brought into the court
of domestic relations this year were
caused by interference of mot he ra
in -law ; 9 5 pr cent of the 1 4
cases were due to drink.
