-
Fair; continued cold tonight and to- ^ ^^1 ^|f FrOtn PtGSM to Hotll&
morrow; lowest temperature tonight. MA Ay ^ A ^ A. ^ ?"?- I ?{j "-?????1?
.igg-i gJje ^tomtm jHar.* i^=
V -/ 1*1*. Dallr Anracei 7?,3371 Sutay, MM
- ? 1 ?
No. 29,548. WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 191C?FOURTEEN PAGES. _ ONE CENT.
CARRIES A TOTAL
OF $400,10,000
i
Value of Land and Buildings in
District on Which Taxes
Will Be Levied.
SMALL INCREASE IS SHOWN
I
I
Carrying a total of $400,000,000. Wash- !
Jngton's first biennial assessment, made J
under the provisions of the law passed ,
September 1 last, was announced today. 1
This is the customary two-thirds tig- J
ure for assessment purposes, so that
the total value of all land and buildings j
In the District, as found by the board, J
Is $t?OO.onu,oun.
The findings are only $10,000,000 more
than the triennial assessment reported
three years ago. in the amount of
OOO.OOO. This small increase includes
new buildings, it being estimated that
the increase in land values* during the
past three years is but approximately
lo.OOO.UUO.
The last triennial assessment showed
an increase in property values of
$40.oo0,000 for. the three years preceding.
Officials Decline to Comment.
Officials of the assessor's office would
not comment upon the small increase
of the last three years as compared 1
with the $40,000,000/ increase in the '
three-year period before that, but opin- j
ions communicated to the office by local j
business and real estate men indicate a j
general belief that the agitation over |
the organic act arid the Borland amend- j
menu ior street assessments nave nau
a depressing effect upon the realty
market.
So much complaint has been made to
the assessor's office vover the inability
of owners to obtain prices for property ,
which would have been offered three
years ago that a wholesale appeal on
the board's findings is expected to be
made. It is considered probable that
the $400,000,000 assessment may be :
considerably reduced before the hoard
of equalization and review concludes t
consideration of the appeals.
4 The board will meet next Tuesday to !
take up appeals. It will continue its j
sessions for five months. In that time i
every owner who feels that his prop- j
erty has been rated at too high a fig- '
ure will be given an opportunity to lay I
his complaint before the board. After)
the first Monday in June no appeals j
win oe considered. I
When Taxes Are Payable.
Taxes under the new assessment will
not become due and payable before
May. 1918. In May of the coming year
the same t< xes that were paid a year
go will be due under the old assessment.
The assessment anounced today is in
reality the last of the old triennial sys- '
tem and the first of the biennial. It '
was begun nearly a year ago. under the
law of August 14, 1S94, but in the ,
meantime Congress passed the law for
biennial assessments. The triennial assessment.
under the old law, would
have been opened for examination on
the first Monday of January, 1917, but
under the new law it will be opened at
the same time as the first biennial assessment.
Under the new law the assessor's
office acquired five field men. and this
additional assistance greatly facilitated
\he carrying out of the provisions of
the law. According to Assessor William
P. Richards, the business section
between the Capitol and 16th street
and B and I streets has never been
more exhaustively inspected for assessment
purpose*. Not only were 73
per cent of all the buildings in this section
cubed and factored for valuation
purpose*, but all sales of property in
this section made during the last six
or seven years were considered when
the assessment figures were being es- i
tabitsned.
In the residential and other sections
buildings have been carefully examined
and sales and rents have been closely
canvassed and tabulated, so that the
office has had a better guide in this
respect than in any previous assessment
Suburban Land Values Stationary.
Land values apparently have remained !
stationary in the suburban sections in
the last three years, and few changes i
have been made. The principal increases
were ori corner sites in the business
section. Values in many old |
buildings were reduced by the board. I
Apartment houses throughout the j
District, it is stated, have received special
attention as to condition, rental. :
cost. etc.. the gross rental of some Too i
or apartment houses having been j
compiled, so that the office is able to ;
make a comparison by means of these \
gross rentals.
So far as the board has been able. ;
they have made extra effort to equalize j
and make allowance for depreciation ;
and obsolescence in the various classes ;
of old structures; however, it is almost .
Impossible to cover this flehl with the .
utmost thoroughness in the time al- ;
lowed for assessments, and data in the
way of appeals is invited by the board
of equalization and review; particularly j
in Georgetown and the southwest sec- '
tlon of the city has there been a special
effort in this direction. Most of the ;
buildings in those localities have been
reduced, but in some few cases raises1
have been found necessary in order to
establish a proper equalization.
Altogether some 175,000 separate
pieces of real estate have been assessed.
Improved by approximately 70.000 dif- '
ferent structures, so that the hoard believes
that a proper examination of the
present assessment and a full and clear
appeal will still further help to equalize
these vast numbers of properties, and
it is desired that the books be examined
as early in the appeal period as possible
and that the blanks supplied by the
assessor s office filled out with fuli data
and explanation which will help equalize
assessments with as much dispatch
ami accuracy as possible.
Japanese Artist Saved From Swamp.
NORFOLK. Va., December 30.?Takao
Shiota. a wealthy Japanese artist reaiding
in New York, who became separated
from hunting companions in the
Dismal swamp Thursday, was rescued
from the eastern North Carolina
wilderness late yesterday afternoon
after a thirty-hour search. Shiota declared
that he lost the sense of direction
after becoming separated from his
companions, could not make his way
out and after becoming exhausted built
a lean-to and awaited rescuers. He
suffered considerably from exposure
and hunger.
I Joseph P. Fontron Dead.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.. December 30.?Jo- j
aeph I*. Kontron, candidate for governor j
of Missouri at the last election on the
prohibition and progressive tickets, is I
dead.
RAILWAY PROGRAM I
ISM POSHED
Strong Opposition in Senate to I
the "Investigation Before
Strike" Feature.
WALK-OUT NOT EXPECTED 1
Senator Xewlands, chairman of the
Senate interstate commerce committee. j?
which is handling the proposed railroad j a
legislation, returned to Washington 1
early today from New York, where he iv
has spent the Christmas holidays.
He said that the committee would pro- |s
ceed as expeditiously as possible with s
the proposed railroad bills. The fail- (
ure of the railway managers and the c
representatives of the railroad brother- <
hoods to reach an agreement in their 1
controversy over putting the Adamson 1
eight-hour law Into effect January 1. 0
he said, would not cause any change in 11
the committee's program for handling f
the. proposed legislation.
Committee Meets Tuesday. ?
The committee is to meet Tuesday, he c
said, when a hearing will be given on n
tiie two measures advocated by the e
President, one to make it unlawful for t
a strike or lockout to be ordered in ?
case of trouble between the employers
and the employes until after a thorough
public investigation has been made
of the matters at issue, and the other
giving the President the power to op- V
erate the roads under certain circurn- j
stances. senator Aewianns saiu mat
the railroads and the brotherhoods had
been invited to send representatives r;
to be heard, but that he had not yet o
been informed what witnesses would g
appear. 0
There is strong: opposition on the part t|
of some members of the committee to y
the fc4U compelling an investigation be- u
fore an organized strike can be called.
Senator Cummins of Iowa is one of those ^
who has expressed disapproval of such r.
a measure, and has questioned the constiutionalitv
of such an act, on the w
ground that it might violate the consti- j
tutional prohibition against involuntary
servitude. A number of the other sena- ^
tors have expressed similar ideas, and j ^
today it was said that so strong was ^
the opposition such a bill might never ?
be reported favorably from the commit- y
tee.
Strongly Urged by President.
Tne President has strongly recommended
such legislation, however, and if the
administration is determined to put it s
through it seems likely that the Presi- ii
dent will be able to force the hand of the p
Senate, as he has in the case of other h
legislation which he desired. If the administration
is not determined in its ef- g
fort to obtain this legislation, which, by t<
the way, is strongly opposed by the rail- tl
road brotherhoods, then the measure may a
die in committee. rr
Senator L'nderwood of Alabama has a cl
plan whereby the interstate commerce u
commission would have jurisdiction in <"
fixing hours and wages of employes of ii
the roads, just as it now passes upon rr
rates charged for service. He is a ii
member of the committee on interstate d
commerce and is expected to urge a
strongly this plan upon the committee.
One remedy has been suggested by a c
republican senator for threats to tie up c
the commerce of the country by gen- c
eral strikes, and that is to enact a law &
which would make it a crime to inter- t!
fere with trains in interstate commerce. 8
Thinks It Would End Strikes.
In the opinion of this senator, if such
a law were enacted prohibiting vio- IJ
lence on the part of strikers, there C
would be no strikes, but arbitration v
when disputes arose between the rail- A
road employers and employes. Such a ^
bill probably will be offered in the Sen- ^
ate early in the consideration of the ?
railroad legislation. B
Thinks Plan Might Win. 1
Senator Newlands was the author of !
a proposed amendment to the eight- j ^
hour law, when it was under considera- j c
tion in the Senate, making it a mis- j 1
demeanor to obstruct interstate trains. , j;
At that time about a dozen senators, j \
democrats and republicans, supported j (
his amendment. J *
"I do not regard the vote at that time (j
as a criterion of what the Senate might j
do if another vote were taken ori this j
matter." said Senator Newlands. "Con- ^
gress at that time was intent upon one j
thing, and that was to grant the railroad p
employes an eight-hour day.
"The Cnited States mails have been p
protected by making it a misdemeanor ^
punished by fine or imprisonment to j \
tamper with them. How much more ! j
important it is to protect interstate I j.
trains which carry food and necessaries
of life, where the mails carry only
information. *
Some Leaders Prefer Force. ^
"I have talked with many members of
the railroad brotherhoods and I am convinced
that the great majority of them
are strongly in favor of the adoption of t
some plan whereby questions arising be- <1
tween them and the railroads may he S
settled peaceably. Some of the leaders i (
of brotherhoods, however, appear to ! t
favor forc e as the means of obtaining ! h
their desires. They seem to prefer to v
hold over the heads of the railroads 3
the threat of a strike and the paralysis s
of commerce in order to gain their ends, g
whi? h seem just to them."
Senator Newlands insisted that the :
proposed law for an investigation into ( ri
differences between the railroads and!8
their employes before a strike could 11
be called did not in any way violate';8
the constitutional prohibition of invol- 11
untary servitude. He pointed out that 1
it would not interfere in any way with , ^
a man's rjuiiitiK work, as an individual. ; 1
if he desired to quit. It would, however. Jt
prevent <*ombinations or conspiracies to v
tie up commerce and prevent the op- !
e rat ion of the trains until a thorough
investigation had been made by th?aovemment
and the public thorough!}
informed of the facts in the case. This, , l
he contended, was perfectly lawful. 1
Senator Shermam of Illinois said to- !
day that he did not look for a strike
on the part of the railroad brother- j
hoods. He said that public opinion i t
would not be with the strikers and that
a strike could riot succeed under such ;
circumstances. a
"There used to be a time when rail- n
road heads believed they could control p
the country," said Senator Sherman,
"and now it seems that some of the
labor union leaders have the same n
opinion. Let them try it, and they will . ?
find out differently. I would rather | >
see a strike called than to see such a a
humiliation of Congress and the execu- t
tive as took place here last September." p
Librarians to Meet in Louisville, j |
CHICAGO, December 30.?The next an- *'
nual meeting of the American Library c
Association will be held at Louisville on n
July 21-27. ^
OFFICIAL SOUVENIR
TO BEART WORK
ts Sale Expected to Contribute
Largely Toward Expenses
of Inaugural.
A/ILSON WOMEN TO MARCH
Work of arranging for a handsome
ifficial souvenir program for the inugu
ration, under the control of the
naugural committee, the returns from
rhich are expected to help in paying
he necessary Inaugural expenditures,
tarted today when the committee on
ouvenirs and printing of which
'ornelius Ford, the public printer, is
hairman, was announced by Inaugural
'hairman R. N. Harper. This is the last
naugural committee to be named save
hat on Public Order, which is in charge
if Maj. Raymond \V. Pullman and which
s to be organized on a different basis
rom any of the other inaugural
ommittees.
It is proposed to make the inaugural
ouvenir one of unusual attractiveness
hat all inaugural visitors will want to
arry back to their homes. The presence
n the committee of many men promilently
identified with the printing and
ngraving business gives assurance that
ypographically as well as in other repects
the souvenir will be most atractive.
"Preparedness" in Parade.
Inaugural Chairman Robert X. Harper
Var Department is a part of the <urricay
at 2 p.m., with Maj. Gen. Devol, the
djutant general for the inaugural paade,
at which matters will be talked
ver relative to the participation of the
tates' militia and the schools throughut
the United States in which military
raining under an instructor from the
Car Department is a part of the curriilum.
This effort to emphasize "i>rearedness"
is to be an outstanding tenure
of the military sections of the paid
e, according to Chairman Harper.
That the Women's Wilson Union,
rhose president and organizer are the
rst women ever named on an inauural
committee, will be conspicuous
i the parade was emphasized at a
meeting in the Oxford Hotel yesterday,
,'hich was presided over by Airs. James
I. Boggs of the inaugural committee.
Irs. Wesley Martin Stoner, the other
. oman named on the inaugural comlittee,
also was present.
To March in a Body.
It was voted for the Woman's Wilon
Union to march in a body in the
naugurai paraoe, leu r?y a oanu oomosed
entirely of women, who will be
andsomely costumed.
The Woman's Wilson Union also is
oing to fit out permanent headquarers
in the hotel and hold open house
here during the inaugural period,
.mong those making speeches at the
leeting were Kobert K. Mattingly,
hairman of the state centra! conuiiit>e
for the District of Columbia;
harles W. I>arr, vice chairman of the
lau^ural committee; National Comlittee
Representative Stacey, who was
i charge of the headquarters here
yring the campaign; Walter Costello
nd Harry M. Martin.
Chairman Arthur Peter of the finance
ommittee state<l today that, though
ontributions to the inaugural fund are
oming in encouragingly he will not
nnounce any more contributions until
he first meeting of the general inauural
committee Wednesday.
Printing and Souvenir.
The personnel of the committee on
Tinting and souvenir is as follows:
ornelius ford, chairman; O. T. Wright,
ice chairman; John L. Alverson, Joseph
.uerbach, Edward T. Bates, Richard J.
ieall, Harry C. Birge, Edward S.
Jrashears, Wallace Bassford, Jhn V.
tarros, Bruce A. Bielaski, Bernard M.
tridget, William F. Brooks, Walter A.
trown, Fulton M. Brylawski, Aaron Bryiwski,
Joseph A. Burkart, James Buyer,
ohn W. Childress. Eugene S, Cochran,
lax Cohen, Meyer Cohen. Daniel V. Chisolm,
Guy Collins, Arthur Copeland,
'harles F. Crane, Jacob J. Decker. Wiliam
H. I >e La?*y. H. Bradley Davidson,
.ouis A. Dent, Daniel J. Donovan, Robert
I. Doyle, R. Golden Donaldson. George
V. Driver, T. Howard Duckett,
ieorge J. Easterday, Charles H. Evans,
V. Gwin Gordon, Charles E. Cross,
>r. W. S. Harban, Albert' Harper,
leorg** W. Harris, Frank C. Henry,
ohn Hodges, John J. Kelly, John Mc)onald.
William E. McEvoy, T. Frank
forgan, Joseph P. O Hone, W. W. Price,
oseph E. Ralph, Andrew Randall. W.
Roberts, John B. Small wood. Wiliam
B. Shaw. P. A Shugrue. H. C.* C.
Jtiles, C. F. Sudworth. Eugene Thompon.
Leon Cllman, Edward Voight, jr.;
Viiliatn H. Walker, Robinson White,
furry Wells, Alexander Wolfe, Edwin
I. Walker and Frederick J. Waight.
STRIKE" OF STUDENTS ENDED.
)ver 24,030 Defied Scranton Board
by Taking Week's Holiday.
SCRANTON. Pa., December 3ft.?With
he closing of the school week yesteray
the strike of the students of the
Icranton public schools for a week's
'hristmas vacation automatically came
o an end. New Year day is a legal
oliday and the strikers declare they
/ill return to their classes on Tuesday,
lore than 24,000 of the city's 2",,000
chool children remained away from
chool throughout the week.
The school directors, it was anlounced,
have decided to ignore the
trike and it was said that no punishment
would he indicted upon the
trikcrs. The mayor local judges and
lundreds of private citizens signed peitions
asking that the children be
ranted the usual Christmas recess, hut
he school hoard rejected the petitions
nd ruled that only Christmas day
k-ould he given.
MAGAZINES RAISE PRICES.
increased Cost' of Paper the Cause,
Publishers Say.
NEW YORK. December 30.?Owing to
he increased cost of white paper and
ither materials necessary to printing
nd art work several magazines of
ational circulation announced today
ncreases in the price of subscription.
>ther periodicals have already given
lomc ??i ?* oiiuiini in prices.
Several of the smaller magazines hi
lew York have suspended publication
nd others are planning to merge with
lublications controlled by the same
nterests.
Publishers explain that many of them
iave had to renew their contracts for
aper at this time and to pay nearly
0 per cent more than this item has
ost them In the past.
The rise in subscription prices antounced
today ranged from 20 to Vi
>er cent.
I
HOW
PROVOKW
I PUT
Tmcj
AWi
E/
L
j
I ' oJ|
! * ?
i
| T
LORD FRENCH F
TO SMALL N
British Field Marsh
Adjacent to Germ
Share the Fai
BY EDWARD PRICE BELL.
(Copyright. 1018. by the Chicago Daily News Co.)
LONDON, December 30.?"I certainly
ihink. so," was the most arrestingstatement
made to mo today by Field
J Marshal L,ord French, commander-in|
chief of the home forces, in the course
; of a conversation I had with him in
| his office overlooking the horse guards
parade. My question had been: "Are the
) small neutral countries adjacent to
Germany in danger of being overrun
by the Teutonic armies and in their
i turn treated an Belgium and other
(states have been treated?" *
"I certainly think so," replied the
j brilliant, sympathetic soldier, who,
i though almost naked of artillery, held
| the Teutonic legions at Ypres, saved
{ the channel ports and made the vital
j turning point in the war.
j One of my previous questions had
j been:
| "How much can the central empires
i add to their military strength by impressing
Belgians, Serbians, 1*0163 and
' Rumanians; how many thousands or
i scores of thousands bT Teutons may be
j thrown into the fighting fronts a3 the
| result of these impressments?"
Lord French's Reply.
Speaking with characteristic animation
and directness, I,ord French replied
:
"Field fortifications and Spade work
are of far more importance and value
today than at any previous time in the
! history of war. If the manual labor
!?hus entailed can be carried out by imj
pre seiner the populations of the couni
tries that have been subjugated by hos!
tile troops, this, of course, would add
1 immensely to the strength of the flght!
ing fronts. There are many other ways
j in which the populations of the subt
jugated countries can be used, and
J principally it is necessary to consider
and determine the military value of impressed
men on the lines of communication.
This also has been much increased
in importance in the war today.
It is difficult to assess this extra
strength in actual figures."
"If Germany were to give Holland,
Denmark, Norway and perhaps Sweden
the choice of Joining her or of being
subjugated, what would he the effect
upon Germany's military position?"
"The subjugation of these and other
states will increase Germany's military
j |M?VCI 111 |.i /,.'/? c?w.. ?...
| strength has been enhanced by imt
pressing the populations of the smaller
countries sWe has already overrun."
t
Small States Rated "Life Buoys."
; "Then all these little states about
j Germany are in the nature of life
i buoys that she might seize if she were
i sinking?"
"Yes, I think so."
"if there had not been an overI
whelming ease for charity in Belgium,
what would the allies have done?"
| "The strictly military interests of the
allies as regards Belgium when that
fcountry had been occupied, leaving out
; of ;.cc r.t all questions of humanity,
would have been to apply the blockade
i o Belg.um in the same way as to the
central empires themselves. The right
to blockade friendly or neutral territory
occupied by the enemy is ^ clearly
j recognized by The Hague convention,
a ad this recognition indicates what the
military interests of a belligerent must
be."
What ate these military interests?
! that is to say, what has it cost the
allies to be humane rather than military
in Belgium?"
I "The cost to the allies of feeding
' Belgium may be reckoned as follows:
i "First, in money. Britain and France
have cont*il>u'ed to the relief commission
for Belgium, not counting what
has been spent for relief in northern
| France. something like 22.000.000
XT I
l^lcw A Cell issue
The Star will be issued
New Year day by i o'clock
and delivered at once
; throughout the city.
!
Classified advertising must
i be at the Star office on Monday
before 10 o'clock for insertion
in the New Year
issue.
-1
HE MISPLACED RESOLUTIO >
ORESEES PERIL jf
EUTRAL NATIONS!
ial Thinks the States
any Are Likely to 1
te of Belgium.
~ i
I j
ig .J
:;Byra, *>':'!^^Ht";?>:; ?
PIBLD MA USUAL FRENCH. 11
| *>
j t o]
j pounds sterling- at a very rough esti- I
i mate. This is hard cash spent in pur- 1
'chases of foodstuffs, in freights and so , T
i on. Second, in tonnage, the allies i pi
j have reduced the tonn.ge at their dis- '
I posal in order to supply the needs of J
! Belgium. 1
| month in the ships c hartered by |
; the relief commission made thirty-four;
i voyages from Canadian, I'nited States!
! and Argentine ports to Rotterdam, and. !
'owing to the illegal sowing of mines j
j by the Germans off the Dutch coast!
and owing in more than one instance! '
j to the torpedoing of relief ships the j
allies have lost twelve vessels in the, {course
of the relief work.
i i \\
Indirect Loss Considered. ! <)
j "Third, the indirect loss to the allies j$
j has been even greater. In spite of all i \\
the efforts made to protect Belgian j S)
supplies and property the Germans have : <c
{taken large amounts of live stock and
j foodstuffs from the country. From j))
i time to time the neutral commission I \\
! has succeeded in shutting down upon;/)
J seizures, hut there has been a continual i c<
| recrudescence of these and at the pres;
ent moment the Germans again have : SS
begun to export live stock and food-'//
I stuffs from Belgium. //
{ "Far more serious, however, has been <7
J the gigantic financial robbery carried!/)
on by the Germans in Belgium which
must amount now, at a very rough | (<
estimate, to 2,.700,000,000 francs, say ; cc
$."00,000,000. More serious still, if pos- j i\
sible, has been the German seizure of j \\
, raw materials and machinery of every \\
| kind." I SS
j Released From Responsibility. ' SS
! "To sum up. the indirect cost to the j SS
allies has been the relieving of the Ger- [ (Y
J mans of all responsibility for the main- i \\
I tenance of more than 7.000.000 people.!
j whom, under international law. they (<
] obliged to feed and maintain in healtn; u
; and whom, moreov r. they otherwise aotu- (\
ally would have had either to feed or de-j
j port wholesale, since it is impossible from '
1 a military point of view to have a siarv- >7
} ing |K?pulation on the lines *>f communiv-a- i >S
tion of a great army." Sueh are the views ! SS
; and such the facts adduced by the man ( >>
'who commanded the British army on the : SS
| continent uninterruptedly for seventeen j SS
| months, and who. in that most famous of" /S
l all the salients in the war. won the title of j SS
i Viscount French of Ypres. j )/
Libe'er of Washington Punished. . ?
i OLYMPIA. Wash.. December 30.?As a j //
I libeler of George Washington's mem-Jcc
lory, raui naucr 01 1 aconia must serve I >>
four months in the county jail, the'?/
Washington supreme court upholding j\\
| the conviction of Haffer on a criminal 1 >>
! libel charge. Haffer published an ar- I
tide accusing the first President of the | ((
United States of drunkenness and other '
irregularities. j <<
$5,000 for Seat in Stock Exchange. ?
PITTSBURGH, Pa., December 30.?
Seats on the Pittsburgh Stock Kxchange >>
have reached a valuation of $5,000. The ?
announcement of the sale of a seat at SS
that price, the highest with one excep- //
lion in ten years, has been made. The
last sale of a seat was at $2,300 several
weeks ago. Since that time the J //
value of the 120 seats has increased 1/?
$325,000 to a total value of $600,000. <?
%
<~s.
QE'SAnACKS CHECKED
AT VERDUNJAVS BERLIN
rrench Unable to Regain Lost Dead
Man Hill Positions, According
to Report.
y the Associated Press.
BERLIN, Decebber 30, by wireless to
ayville.?Several attacks were made
y the French yesterday on the Verun
front, says today's report from
rmy headquarters. All efTorts to reake
positions in this sector were reulsed
by the Germans. The statement
sads:
"Army group of Crown Prince Rurecht:
Northeast of Lille and on the
omme. especially on the north bank,
nd in isolated parts of the Aisne front,
le artillery Are temporarily increased.
Tdvances by British and French patrols
tedly repulsed.
"Army group of the German Crown
'rince: On the left bank of the Meuse
Verdun fronti the French during the
ay launched several attacks, preceded
y strong waves of artillery fire, against
le new lines on Dead Man hill capjred
by us. All the attacks were reulsed."
Teutons Fail in Champagne.
PARIS, December 30, 2:10 p.m.?The
allowing official announcement was
lade here today:
"In the Champagne a detachment of
le enemy which attempted, after a
;?irited bombardment, to capture one
f our posts in the vicinity of Beause)ur
was disnersed bv our fire. West of
ah lire we carried out a successful surrise
attack on an enemy trench. I
"On the left bank of the Meuse (Ver3ii
front) the night was relatively
ilm. There is nothing to report from
le remainder of the front."
Two British Steamers Sunk.
LONDON, December 30.?Lloyds anounces
tliat the British steamers Oroniy
and Mereddic have been sunk.
TOMORROW I
"THE NEW YEAR AND THE AMERI- >>
CAN RED CROSS"?What the Red >>
Cross has accomplished in the past >>
vear and what it looks forward to in >)
1917. SS
"THE DEAL"?An impressive story, by \\
ZONA GALE. <<
"THE GOVERNMENT'S WAR ON }(
WASTE"?On the theory that saving //
waste is a material factor in reduc- // !
ir.g the high cost of living. Uncle [
Sam's scientists have found remedies //
for much of the waste in making /) |
and marketing food products. V) j
"LET ME SEE YOU DRIVE AND I'LL \S '
TELL 'iOU WHAT YOU ARE." by \\
BRUCE BARTON. << j
READING COURSES FOR PARENTS" ?? !
?How the government is aiding ?? }
parents to be prepared with informa- ?? ; ?
tion for their children. // j ,
"SELECTING SALESMEN BY >)'
SCIENCE." by EDWIN BALMER? SS j .
An article which should anneal es- >> ' '
pecially to the business man. V) | j
FRANK G. CARPENTER VISITS THE <
GOLD MINES NEAR NOME. << ! ,
ALASKA." << j 1
"THi. SFORT OF KINGS'?Another in- : '
stallment of this horse-race serial, by /) I '
ARTHUR SOMERS ROCHE. >> j
GREAT BRITAIN'S FOOD DICTATOR- \\ >
SHIP AND THE BRITISH APPE- << |
TITE FOR BEEF. MUTTON. '/> ,
CHEESE. TEA AND EREAD." by > > ' :
CHARLES M. PEPPER. j j
' MOTHERS"?A two-page spread of ap- << j a
pealing pictures. ?< f
THE RAMBLER WRITES OF OLD >> j
bTRAWBLRRY VALE MANOR." >> j
A FLICKETTY ONE LOOKS ON"?A <<' a
Slio.ty McCabe story, by SEWELL \\ I
FORD. << j
MURDER WILL OUT"?Showing how
trie murderer, despite his cunning, //! r
always overlooks at least one little /? | s
detail which betrays him. // j u
STERLING HEILIG VISITS DR. CAR- >> ! .
REL'S WONDERFUL WAR HOS- >> i *
PITAL. A FEW MILES I ROM THE >> J *
GERMAN FRONT IN FRANCE." SS
MONEY WE SPEND WITHOUT $|
awuwuiu xi, dy a. ?. iimmr.it- < < I
MAN. >/ j
ANNUAL SUGAR BILL OF THE >>
UNITED STATES IS $720,000,000." >> r
by JAMES B. MORROW. SS *
REVIEWS OF NEW BOOKS.*' << t
"MAKE THIS NEW YEAR A DO << >
YEAR.** and "HE DIDN'T KNOW ??
IT COULDN'T BE DONE." and >> *
"OUR CHANGING STRAIN." and >> U
"THE PERIL OF PEACE," by >>
HERBERT KAUFMAN. >> *
IN THE *
SUNDAY STAR *
p<
ALLIES TO ANSWER
PEACE NOTE TODAY
Response to Teutonic Proposal
Will Be Made Public
in Paris.
ON LLOYD GEORGE'S LINES
B.v tli?? Associated Press.
PARIS, December"30. 4:30 a.m.?The
allies' answer to the German note of
December 12 will be handed to Ambassador
Sharp tonight, says the Petit
Parisien, and published tomorrow.
It is long, and sets forth again the
resnonsibilitv of the central emnires
for the European conflagration. It |
insists on legitimate reparations and \
restitutions demanded by the entente 1
as outlined by Premier Lloyd George
ami also says that Germany, by failing
to formulate proposals for peace, removes
in advance any basis for pourparlers.
The note seeks to suggest that the
Berlin cabinet, having proclaimed in |
1914 its contempt for treaties, cannot j
pretend to obtain the same conditions |
as powers respectful of signatures, and j
must offer guarantees.
Scandinavian Nations Act.
STOCKHOLM, December lifl, via London,
December 30.?K. A. Wallenberg,
foreign minister of Sweden, today
handed to Ira Nelson Morris, the Ameri
can minister, the -Scandinavian coun- !
tries* peace note to the belligerents for
transmission to Washington. When Mr.
Morris delivered President Wilson's*
note to M. Wallenberg, December -1,
the foreign minister evidenced profound
interest in the desire for peace, and the
note handed to Mr. Morris reflects this
as the feeling pervailing throughout
Scandinavia.
Proposals Beach Berlin.
BERLIN, December 29, via London.
December 30. ? The Scandinavian
peace notes were presented today
to the foreign office in Berlin and
Vienna, the Swedish minister in Berlin
and the Swedish and Danish representatives
in' Vienna being the first to deliver
the documents. The text agrees
with outlines telegraphed from the
Scandinavian capitals.
Delivered in Paris.
PARIS, December 30.?The Swedish,
Norwegian and Danish ministers delivered
notes to the foreign office last
night supporting the initiative taken
by President Wilson. The notes are
identical, and are couched in terms
even more platonic than the Swiss note.
s
Scandinavian Notes Here.
Thrpp morp nations?N'nrwav. SJwpdfn
? ,
and Denmark?have formally notified
this government of their lively interest
in President Wilson's proposals "looking
toward the establishment of a durable
peace" and their "deepest sympathy"
with all efforts to shorten the
war.
The Norwegian note, with which
those from Denmark and Sweden are
identical, follows:
"It is with the most lively interest
that the Norwegian government has
learned of the proposals which the
President of the United States has just
made with the purpose of facilitating
measures looking toward the establishment
of a durable peace, while at the
same -time seeking to avoid any interference
which could cause pain to legitimate
feelings.
"The Norwegian government would
consider itself failing in its duties toward
its own people and toward all
humanity if it did not express its deepest
sympathy with all efforts which
could contribute to put an end to the
ever-increasing suffering and the moral
and material losses. It has every hope I
that the initiative of President Wilson j
will arrive at a result worthy of the !
high purpose which inspired it."
No Proffer of Help.
Unlike the Swiss government, which
offered to help in any way, "no matter
how modest." the Scandinavian countries
make no direct offer of co-operation.
This fact attracted particular
interest because Norway, particularly, I
has been one of the greatest sufferers ?
from the war among the neutrals. ;
The State Department made public the Norwegian
note without comment.
The offh ial copies of the Danish and ,
Swedish notes also reached the State i
Department today, being similar in '
terms to that from Norway.
AMERICAN OWNERS OF
CARGOES SAFEGUARDED
LONDON. December "o.?As the remit
of conferences between Sir Samuel
F. Evans..president of the British prize
;ourt. and Robert P. Skinner, the Amer<
an consul general, an arrangement
las been concluded under which Ameri:an
claimants to cargoes in the Bri ish
)rize court may make their appearance
>efore the court without engaging local '
egal aid.
It is announced that it w ill be necessary,
however, for all claimants "to
inter appearance." this being the fornal
action to notify the court of their
mention to appear in defense of their
nterests, which may be done by an j
Lgent in London qualified to do so by j
lower of attorney. '
In discussing the new plan with the ;
Associated Press Mr. Skinner stated j t
hat the prize laws of both Kngland i .
rnd the I'nited States hold that the I j
iaimant must exhaust his legal rights | '
>efore invoking diplomatic interven- c
ion. and that consequently the ar- | a
angement will safeguard the claims of jy
mall owners who cannot afford the j
isual expenses of litigation. t
>AYS PRESIDENT WILSON jlIS
NOT BRITISH PUPPET \
|?
BEKUIN. December 29, via l.ondon. L
ieeember 30.?Dr. Paul Nathan, we 1 ]
nown in America as the secretary of
tie German Jewish Aid Society, in an
rticle in Der Tag, warns the Germans
gainst the view that President Wilson
5 a mere puppet pulled by British e
ires. The article, which is a good ex- t
mple of moderate German views, is 1
ased on the assumption that President il
Cilson is pursuing a policy dictated "
olely by practical American interests t
(Continued on Second Page.) h
SECOND U.S. NOTE i'
SENT, SAYS BERLIN
Explanatory of Original Peace
Proposal, According to
Pahlo BonnH
STORY DISCREDITED HERE
fly the AcHociate*] Prpt*.
BERLIN, l>ecember 2?, via London.
December 30, 10:10 a.m.?It has been
learned that a few days ago President
Wilson sent a second note, explanatory
of the first, to the central powers and
the entente nations. This note has not
been presenter!.
The reason for the withholding of tho
note is said to be that the German reply,
received in the interim, showed
that the German government had not
been influenced by the "misconceptions
regarding the purpose and aims of
President Wilson's step which an unfriendly
press in both camps attributed
thereto."
Mr. Lansing Is Silent.
Secretary Lansing refused to comment
in any way on the report that a
second explanatory note had been sent
both to the central powers and tho
entente allies to correct misinterpretations
of the President's node calling for
peace terms.
Other officials, however, said they were
sure no second note had t ten sent and
that the Berlin dispatches rfferred to tho
two statements by Secretary tensing issued
the day after the dispatch of the
original note was announced.
He indicated that under the recent
policy of silence adopted by President
Wilson and himself in the peace negotiations,
he would make no statement
either affirming or denying such reports.
It is felt that much misunderstanding
might arise in the popular mind,
but it is held that the various governments
addressed will be influenced otily
by the official information, which will *
be quite complete.
Statements Sent Abroad.
Secretary Lansing also refused to in- *
dicale whether he thought the BerHn
report might have arisen out of the
sending abroad for the information of
American diplomats of his two statements
authorized the day the note was
published. It is known that these
statements were transmitted to the
American diplomats to acquaint them
fully with what had taken place here,
but that they were not instructed to
present them to the various foreign
offices.
Secretary Lansing has been most emphatic
ever since his two statements
were issued in saying that the Presidents
note was absolutely self-explanatory
and required no further comment.
He has stated also that no speihstrndtmng
ygrv sent Hie American
diplomats as to the manner of pf
seilCIUH the note.
Must Endure Misunderstandings.
Intimations that the misunderstanding
abroad, particularly in the publio
mind, might be dispelled by official
statements from here have met with
an unfavorable reception. It has been
said that no matter t^hat the publio
misunderstandings jusx at present, inn
situation would eventually clear of itself
and must, be suffered as part of the
results of keeping the negotiations absolutely
confidential.
Surprised at Misunderstanding.
The American government, it became
known authoritatively today, believes
there are three principal points in its
note to the belligerents, and is surprised
that they have not been more clearly
understood, particularly by the press
of the entente allies.
These points, taken in their order of
importance from the administration
viewpoint, tire:
The fear that the position of neutral
nations be "rendered altogether intolerable"
if the war continues;
The suggestion that arrangements bo
made as a guarantee against similar
conflicts in the future;
The proposal that means be found for
comparing the concrete peace terms of
both sides.
Assurance of Future Peace.
The last point has aroused most comment.
and the first was emphasized by
Secretary I-arising's statement, afterward
modified, that the United States
it so If might be drawing near entrance
into the war.
The administration, however, it was
learned today, thought the suggestion
for an arrangement 10 preserve peace
in the future would attract more attention
among the entente allies than it
apparently has, and furnish a means
through which these nations could enter
with perfect propriety into a serious
peace discussion.
If such an arrangement could be
made, the administration feels, there
would be no ground for the fear that
agreements over terms made between
the belligerents would not be kept after
the present war ends. It was pointout
today that such a fear has been
one of the main objections of the entente
allies to entering into peace discussions.
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY
CLOSED BY CONTRIBUTION
Money sullieiont to close another of
he annual "fourteen opportunities" has
?een received by the Associated Charlies
within the last twenty-four hours.
Cloven of these opportunities are now
ully subscribed and consequently
dosed. The latest is No. 14 and the list
>f th<*se closed embraces Xos. 1 to 9,
nclusive, 12 and 14.
Three. Nos. 10. 11 and 13. are still
pen and need, in round numbers, $100
piece. Th? total amount needed for all
ras ana anoui is in nana.
Contributions received by The Star
oday arc hereby acknowledged as folows:
Previously acknowledged $1,200.37
:. C., most needy 1.00
>. B.f most needy 2.00
'hos. .!. Heany, No. 10 1.00
. s. W., most needy 1.00
;. M.. ones that have least 10.00
.. J. S., No. 13 5.00
Total $1,220.37
Reginald John Smith a Suicide.
Lq^CDON. December 30, 12:35 p.m.?A
oroner's jury today returned a verdict
hat Reginald John Smith, head of a
,ondon publishing house and editor of
lie Cornhill Magazine, whose death
,'hs reported Thursday, committed suiide
while temporarily insane, having
hrown himself from a window whilo
is nurse was out of the room.
