THE WEATHER FORECAST. 1
Fair and continued cold to-day; to
morrow fair; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 31 5 lowest, ai.
Detailed weather, mall anil marine reports on page 7.
IT SHINES FOR, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 121.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1916. Copyright, 1918, by the Sun Printing and Publishing A$$octatlon.
ONE CENT
In (lrMtav Km Turk. I Kit
itnrj city nnd Newark. I TWO CEXTt,
PORK HUNTERS
SCORN WILSON
VETO WARNING
Public Buildings Commit
tee Members Insist House
Will Be Gnsfced.
PREDICT A VICTORY
FOR CLOTURE RULE
Vote on It Wednesday Ex
pected to Decide $35,000,
000 Bill's Fate."
HEXRY OF TEXAS
TO LEAD RAIDERS
That State Is Down for a
Large Slice of Fed
eral Fat.
Washington. Dec. 29. The first
round in the bljr battle for "pork" nt
this session will be fought In the House
next Wednesday, according to present
plins. On that day a special rulo re
ported by the Committee on Rules of
tho House, under which it Is planned
to Jam through the 135,000,000 Omni
bus public buildings bill, will come up
for debate and the vote on this rulo is
expected to determine the fato of tho
Mil.
Under tho rule general debate on
this one of the three "pork" measures
will be limited to four hours, in the
face of a warning from tho Whlto
House that the bill now pending would
not have the President's approval
members of the Public Uultdings Com
mittee Insisted to-day that the "gag"
rule would be adopted and that the
till would pans tho House.
Three members of the Rules Com
mittee are expected to oppose the pro
liMd rule on the tloor. They uro
Representatives Garrett and Foster,
1 niocrats, and Representative len
root, Republican.
Henry to Fight for Pork.
The chairman of tho Committee on
llules, who will lead the light for this
Hc:al rule, under which 135.000.000 will
i- taken from the Treasury and used
1 tritely for "ork" purposes. Is Repre
sentative Henry of Texas. Mr. Henry,
by virtue of his position, Is one of the
most powerful men In the House.
If the public buildings bill goes
through and the rivers and harbors bill
Is pasted In its present shape Mr.
Henry's State of Texas will be fairly
plastered with "pork." In the public,
buildings bill It Is down for eighteen
Appropriations totalling S2.S2S.000.
Of this total $1,800,000 Is for the post
office In Dallas, whero Uie Post Office
rJepartmcnt admits there Is need for
It. Hut post olllce facilities In Northern
cities like Chicago and New York are
luo badly needed, but they are not to
set thorn.
Of the sixteen other Texas Items In
the public buildings bill fifteen are pro
nounced b the Treasury Department to
lie without profit to the Government;
in other words they are plain cases of
"rork." Ten places are down for post
!t!a costing from 125,000 to $45,000
each and their average population Is
2,000. The Government will be out of
pocket anywhere from $3,000 to $4,000
a year for tho maintenance of these
places after tho post offices are built.
In the rivers and harbors Mil, which
Is about to be reported by the commit
lee, unless changes are made at the last
moment, Representative Henry's Htate
Is down for fourteen appropriations
ir;regat!ng $044,000. That Is $100,000
tnoro than the State of New York will
set, though New York paid last year
1(5, 200,000 in corporation and Income
tai.es, as compared with $1,570,000 paid
by the State which Mr. Henry repre
tents. Ilraxos Itlvrr I'p Attain.
Very few of the Texas harbors are
overlooked. Even the Brazos River
project, Ono of Mr. Henry's pets, but de
nounced again and again In Congress
when former "pork" bills have been up,
Is down for an appropriation of $66,000.
The Hraios has been regularly show
ing Its heud In every "pork" bill of this
kind and has been kindly mentioned
(.very year by the Government engineers,
though hack In 1 '. 1 3 after $2.000.0o0
had been sunk In It the army engineers
ouId report only a total tralllc of 1,040
tris. This was carried by one lioat.
Not only In Texas but In other Stales
of the South It Is apparent that these
two "pork" bills have been framed with
xn Idea of having tnem dovetailed. If
a Southern Domocrntlc Congressman has
been left -out of one ho Is almost sure to
get "pork" at the other counter.
Take the caso of South Carolina. In
which for Kiino reason Representative
Asbury Fruncls Lever of Lexington
"cms to have been overlooked In the dis
tribution of post olllccs. Rut Mr. (.ever
"liner the present plans or the Rivers
nnd Harbors Committee controlled by his
"oIIo.ikiios or tho Southern States will
on pleased with tho $30,000 given the
"Utile" Congiiree, running through his
'1 xtrlet. Tho "Little" Congaree and the
"Utile Chief Wuteree arc familiar
twins,
On tho Congaree there were 400,384
''ns or commerce list year, according
lo the engineers' reirt. Including lum
W, staves, whiskey, wine and beer, The
engineers rurthcr report that "practl.
'ally nil the commerce on this river was
londueteil by one old stern wheel steamer
"f 133 registered net tons."
ft 00,000 Consolation Prise.
This steamer mado thirty-six wheexy
I rips last year and carried about 100
tens to the trip. Nevertheless tho no
onmin.tlng engineers have recom
mended that $100,000 lie appropriated
for work alojix; thlsr liver, which will
Hiely earn for tliem the smiles of Rep
ir.wntatlvu Lover. Iat year $27,088
was spent' on the Congaiee, On the
Oontinu4 est M(tk Pap.
THIEVES ROB HOUSE AS
T.W.LAMONT BATHES
Morgan Partner Loses Jewelry
mid Cash Valued
nt $2,300.
When Thomas W. Lnmont of J. P.
Morgan & Co. wan bathing In hi home
In Heech mail. HncrUivnwl v r ThiiM.
day evening preparatory to going out to j
.in-, inMKiHrs cincrcii ine room next to
tlic bathroom and carried nwoy Jewelrv
and cash valued at $2,8u0.
The robbery occurred about 7 :S0,
and was discovered by Mr. I.amont
when lie had finished his bath and went
to the room for his clothes and Jewelry.
A mysterious automobile containing
several men has been seen lately In that
district and has attracted some atten
tion because on different appearances It
bore licenses of different States. There
have been several burglaries lately near
Kngltwood, They have been early In
the evening while the family In each
case was at dinner.
EXPORTS FROM N. Y.
UP BILLION IN YEAR
Imports Show $300,000,000
Increase Over 1015 Despite
War and U-Boats.
Exports of American manufactures
and commodities through the port of
New York were 12,785,331,906 In 1916.
or $1,000,000,000 more than In 1915.
This was announced yesterday In a
summary of the calendar year's business
given out by Collector Dudley Field
Malone. Also, In spite of the hostilities
abroad and the menace of submarines.
Imports through this port leaped nearly
$300,000,000 over the figures ror 1915.
Tho total domestic exports for the
twelve months, with to-day's figures esti
mated, arc compared with $1,727,164,613
for 1915. for the month of December
the estimated figure Is $248,000,000.
making It the greatest month of the
year.
The gain In Imports, although not
so spectacular, has been considerable.
The year brought $1,235,297,403 worth
of merchandise to this port. This Is a
gain over last year, with Its total qf
$987,018,941. or nearly 30 per cent.
Out or all this business the customs
collections, or course. Increased, although
they did not attain the amounts re
corded berore the war. Total receipts,
including duties and miscellaneous, were
$155, 106.943,87, as against $142,849,
043.06 laVt year,
JAPANESE AVIATOR IS
SHIPWRECKED IN BAY
Rescued by a Tujr, He Enlists
Service of Police Boat to
Save the Seaplane.
The first air shipwreck In the lower
bay was observed yesterday atternoon
by the pilot or the tug Sarah K. Moran
In u choppy se.i oft the Homer Shoal.
The navigator of the airship, a Curtlss
hydroaeroplane, had been In the water
an hour when the tug came nlong and
rescued him. The rescuers were a bit
surprised to nnd the shipwrecked man a
Japanese,
After he had a cup of hot coffee nnd
had dried himself out In tho engine
room, he said he was T. K. Ogurl of 125
Tost avenue, Manhattan, a pupil or the
Grundy aviation school nt Midland
Boich. Richmond, and that ho was try.
Inj ou. the seaplane, chiefly to test the
value of the pontoons, when he smashed
Into the surface of the bay harder than
he Intended.
When he reached the Battery Ogurl
went to tho Harbor, Police, who put him
aboard the Patrol, In charge of Sergeant
Oeorgo Kills, who promised to pick up
the wreck of the seaplane If possible
with the Patrol's searchlight and tow It
to shotc.
SUBMARINE MAIL ANNOUNCED.
Special Charge of Tito Marks Plus
I'snal I'ostsge,
Rerun, by wireless, Dec, 29. The
mail to be carried on the merchant sub
marine Deutschland and her sister ships,
the German postal authorities announce,
will be dispatched to the United States,
Central und South America, tho West
Indies. China, the Dutch East Indies ana
the Philippine Islands. All such letters
must be sent to Ilremen and bear tho In
scription "submarlno letter."
A special chargo of two marks for .i
post card or letter not exceeding twenty
grams In weight will be levied In addi
tion to the regular International postage.
As letters rent by tho ordinary route
take many months In transit, six months
being not unusual, It Is expected that tho
submarine pout will bo In heavy demand.
THOMAS F. RYAN MOVES.
Transfers Residence to Wash
Inicton to Avoid VlrKlnln Taxes.
Richmond. Va Dec. 29. Thomas P.
Rvnn, who has been a legal resident
or Virginia since 1903, nnd who was
compelled this year to pay to the Stato
iilono more than $235,000 In taxes on In
tangible property which had not been
subjected to taxation for eleven years,
has notified the Commissioner of Reve
nue of Nelson county that he has trans
ferred his residence to Washington. I). C.
It Is rstlmated that tho transfer of
Mr. Ryan's legal residence will mean an
annual loss or $80,000 In tnxes to tho
State or Virginia and Nelson county,
where Is located his great country estate
Want All France Mobilised.
Paiiim, Dec. 29. Henry Rerenger to
day Introduced In the Senate a bill pro
viding for tlm mobilization of civilians In
France Into an auxiliary bcrvlco for tho
national defence.
The bill provides for tho ending up of
all citizens between the ages or 17 and 60.
Annual Financial Review Tonight
Over thlrty-alx newspaper pages In the
N. Y. Kvenlng I'ost devoted to lliranclul ixf.
fslrs. Itavl'W of rust year slid forecast for
1917. IMIled by Alexander Dana Noyos. In.
valuable for Investor and tlnanclrr. Mnt
Important publication on ttnenc of the
year. Price of Now York Evening I'ost
tonight, S cents a copy, which also Includes
Annual Real Estate Rsvltw and Japan
BupRlsroeet. over IN "rMfts. All aews
lands. -JUn,
R. R. STRIKE IS
UP TOTHE MEN
Managers Confident There
Will Be No National
Walkout.
MAY UK SMALL TIEUl'S
Brotherhood Heads Send Ex
planation of Situation to
the Members.
Growing belief that no general strike
will result from the disappointment of
tho brotherhood men over their failure
to obtain from the railroads ten hours
pay for eight hours work while tho Ad
nmson law Is In depute before the Su
preme Court, I further supported by '
the sltuutlon pieseuted last night when
tho four brotherhood chiefs returned to
Cleveland following their fruitless con
ference with the railroad managers on
Thursday,
Before departing, the heads of the
"Big Four prepared and mailed to local
chairmen a. circular to be distributed to
all the members. It explains the delay
in the long' expected wage Increase, sets
forth the refusal of the railroads to
make It effect I vo pending the constitu
tionality test of the Adamson act, and
without recommendation makes It pos
sible for the men to call n strike If they
choose to do so. But apparently It Is so
worded ns to discourage such action.
The railroad managers are serenely
confident that there will be no iMtlnnal
strike.
I'esr Sporadic-Strikes.
Rut If danger of a general strike has
passed conceding that It existed there
Is no question but that the managers
fear that groups of employees will try to
tie up some Individual railroads or parts
of railroads after January 1, the day on
which tho "eight hour law" would have
become effective If the roads had not got
injunctions necessitating a Supreme
Court decision. One of the spots where
local walkouts rosy bo ordered Is Chi
cago. Thlrt-slx roads have terminals
In that city. The yardmen of six of
mese roaos neiong in tne sw iicnmen e j
union, which obtained by arbitration last ,
week nine hours pay for eight hours
work. I
Yesterday's only formal word from
the brothcthood chiefs came In this
statement, signed by Warren O. Iee, W.
S. Stone. F. F. Carter nnd L. E. Shep
jiard. after a private talk" In the Hotel
Hrlstol :
"While meeting with President Wilson
last August at Ills Insistence our com
mitteemen waived their request for time
nnd a half overtime, which was fully 50
per cent or their original demand, nnd
at the suggestion or the President ac
cepted his proposition, which was:
" 'Concession or an elgbt hour day.
" 'Postponement or the other demands
as to payment for overtime and the
counter suggestions of tde railway man
agers until experience actually discloses
the consequences or the eight hour day.
" 'In the meantime the establishment
by authority or Congress of a commis
sion or body of men, appointed by the
President, to observe. Investigate and re
port upon these consequences, without J
recommendation.
"'Then such action upon the facts ns.
the parties to the present controversy
may think best.'
See Lass's Intent Defeated.
"Our men believed In so doing they
would secure the eight hour basic day at
once, but the enactment of the Adamson
eight hour law, effective January 1. 1917,
mado It necessary for them to wait pa
tiently until that time, to find later that
the railroad companies Instituted Injunc
tion proceedings against tho Govern
ment's enforcement of the eight hour
law. And at this time the entire mat
ter Is In litigation, such litigation mak
ing It Impossible tor tho special com
mittee appointed by tho President, ns
provided for In the law. to proceed with
their Investigation as of January 1, and
the probability bt additional litigation
being commenced by tho railroads, even
though the law Is declared constitutional
by the Supreme Court, will seriously aT
rect such Investigation; In fact can and
will delay the Investigation until the
commission cannot mako Its Investiga
tion as the law contemplates, thereby
defeating the Intent of the law and nt
the mine time postponing the benefits
promised by the law, which will un
questionably meet with general dissatis
faction among tho membership ot the
railroad organizations.
"The entire situation Is to be placed
berore the membership by special cir
cular." TO RUSH WILSON PLAN.
Prompt Action Fxpected on Presi
dent's Hnllroad Legislation,
Wabiiinoton, Dec 19. President
Wilson's proposed railway legislation Is
to lecelve prompt action on tho part of
Congress. The view hero Is that tho
failure of tho New York conferences be.
tween the railroads nnd tho employees
has put tho problem directly up to the
national legislative body nnd the way is
being prepared for a speedy considera
tion of the question.
Hearings on part of tho President's
programme will liegln before tho Senate
Commerce Committee next Tuesday.
Once tho programme reaches the floor
quick action can no obtained by amend
ing n House railroad bill with the Presi
dent's proposed legislation instead or
Introducing It In the form of separate
bills. The rallioad brotherhoods nre
ready for a bitter fight against tho
Btrlke postponement feature or tho Wil
son plan.
Administration ofllclals nre cliiagrincd
nt the collapse or the New York con.
ferences. No trouble had been expected
nt tho earliest until tho Supreme Court
passed on tho constitutionality of tho
eight hour law. The case Is set for
hearing January 8, but a decision is not
expected until weeks later.
PUTS UP EGGS AS BAIL BOND.
What's More, Police Accept Them
From necUless Driver.
Hutchinson, Kan., Dec' 29. When J.
J. I'nnkratz, n fanner, arrested on a
charge of reckless driving, learned the
amount of his bond to-day he was un
able to put up the cash nnd could think
of no one on whom lo call,
Ho said he had with lilm no personal
property of value, 'but offered to put up
a cute of en for his appearance in po
lice oourt. Th bond was accepted.
WHITMAN AND
T.R.END FEUD
Third Term Boom for Gov
ernor Is Started by
the Colonel.
MEET AT NEW MUSEUM
Political Significance Seen as
Each Pays Compliments
to tho Other.
Albany, Dec. 29. Those who attended
the format opening of the State Museum
this evening expecting a lot of musty,
scientific, dull speeches failed to count
on the appesranco of Col. Theodore
Rooevelt. 1
Rut the Colonel was there, and as n
result mustlness nnd dulness were driven
far away. As the theatre critics put It.
the Colonel "went big." and the Stato
Kducatlon Building rocked with the
laughter he evoked when he wandered
from his set speech, which was often.
Political significance wis attached to
the appearance of both Col. Roosevelt!
and Gov. Whitman, tho latter as chair
man of the evening session. It was
only two years ago last fall that Charles
H. Duell, Jr., presented to Mr. Whitman
the rough draft of a campaign letter,
signed C. S. W and wiik-h were repre
sented ns campaign pledges Whitman,
then District Attorney, was willing to '
make If Col. Roosevelt would help him
to get the Republican nomination for j
Governor.
Whitman rejected these pledges, as a '
result of which Col. Roosevelt put turn
In tlx? Ananias Club In these word:
"Whitman Is utterly tricky nnd Insin
cere." Then came Harvey Hlrnixui'
struggle for the Republican nomination. 1
backed by Roosevelt, and slnco then
the Governor and the former President I
have never met. j
Old Bitterness Foraellen.
They met to-night, however, and those I
who thought their memories reached '
back two years and n half were either
wrong or else peace and great gotnl
fellowship have been restored between
them. '
The old bitterness was so far forgot
ten. Indeed, that It was Col. Roosevelt
who this evening sounded Whitman's)
boom for a third nomination for Gov
ernor. The Colonel's high voice and j
shrill exclamations of delight and the!
Governor's hearty laughter mingled fre-1
quently as they sat side by side during !
the preliminaries or the meeting, nnd I
when epraklng each paid gracious com- j
pllments to tho other. , I
The Colonel never appeared berore a j
more appreciative audience In Albany, '
and every sally he made, ever' bit or I
his address, which he had warned would
be entirely scientific, was greeted with .
salvos of laughter. He defied his enemies I
with invective and humor, wittily ! (
moaned tho fate of the Bull Moose.,
scored hyphenated Americans, ridiculed
the league to Enforce Peace and ills- .
played generally the vim and pep which
guinea mm his lilgh reputation as a
public speaker.
President John H. Flnley, State Com
missioner or Kducatlon, furnished the
opening wdge for the strayings from
scientific Into political paths In latter
discourses. Dr. Flnley opened the meet
ing, ana in introduc ng Gov. Wh tman '
called attention to the fact that the chair '
In which the Governor was then sitting
was once occupied by DeWItt Clinton, I
"at least twice Governor or this Stite." j
Makes Andlenrr Hoar. j
'Three times." popped Col, Itoo-o-1
veil's shrill voice, as the audience and
Gov. Whitman roared with amusement.
"e snail keep this chair." said Dr.
Flnley. "with added Interest from thin
day as an oracular tripod.'1 Then In
turned straight toward the Colonel and
the Governor nnd said:
"I have been thinking If n new Garden
or Kdcn wcro to be established, the
Almighty would ask this other man
who sits benlde tho Governor to rename
the creatures or tho earth." This was
greeted with nnother roar or laughter,
while Col, Roosevelt threw his head back
and howled with delight, showing his
teeth In true Rooseveltlnn style.
"I know you will pardon," said Gov.
Whitman ns he rose to make his address
Introducing the cx-Presldcnt, "under
stand nnd appreciate my pride and grati
tude In sitting In the seat and occupying
tho place or one who was three times
elected Governor of the State."
Kverybody stormed applause and
Roosevelt led them all. The Governor
rend his formal address and then con
cluded :
"Now, It Is my very great privilege,
representing, ns Is also my very great
privilege, the people of the State of New
York, to present to this splendid audi
ence to-night ns tho speaker of tho eve
ning one whom all or you people love
to claim as a New Yorker, a very great
American, Theodore Roosevelt."
Roosevelt's Speech.
The Colonel's reception was Immediate,
the entire audience rising to a man and
applauding to the echo.
"Naturally," began Col. nooscvelt, "It
Is a great pleasure to me to be again
here In Albany and to be Introduced by
a two term Governor I beg pardon, by
a hitherto two term Governor. In ad
dressing fclcutlsts I wish to speak with
scientific, accuracy by a hitherto two
term Governor sitting In the chair or a
three term Governor happy omen al
though I was only a one term Governor.
"I was much touched at the allusion
of the Governor to tho esteem In which
I was held by the State, and ho did not
In this he showed his characteristic
spirit of kindliness he did not except
election day, as, perhaps a spirit of
strict accuracy might havo led him to.
"And now 1 wish to eay what u real
pleasure It Is to me to coino here to
speak even on science. There was, a
part of the Governor's speech that ex
cited all of the less civilized part of my
nature, when he alluded to the Iroqouls
League to Knforce Pcaco and also al
luded to, the present League to Knforco
Peace. At least the Iroquois had tho
merit or sincerity, nnd I sincerely regret
that we could not have had a delegation
or the. Iroquois League to Enforce Peace
introduced into the deliberations of the
present day league.
"They were sincere nd thoy were
practical. The mere mention of these
attributes excuses me from further
a.luslon to .he attributea of the
present league. That Is a subject upon
which I should speak with more fluency
even than the scientific subject to which
I am confined to-night. Rut to-night' I
speak, 'or the time being i a qualified,
Continued on Bivtnth Pagt.
CARRANZA MAY
GET MORE TIME
Wilson Unwilling to Go to
Extremes With First
Chief.
HIS JtEPLY IS NOT FINAL
Mexican Leader Declines, How
ever, to 0. K. Pershing
Expedition.
Washington, Dec. 29. President
Wilson will probably not enforce this
Government's ultimatum to First Chief
Carranza. which had In view the tmme
dlnto dissolution ot the American-Mexican
commission unless Carranza signed
the protocol drawn up by It December j
z. The President now leans towara
dealing less severely with the situation
nnd even If the American section of the
commission favors Its abandonment the
I'resldcnt may advise keeping the nego
tiations nllve.
It was oindalty stated that nothing
yet had occurred to alter the policy of
the Administration toward Mexico, and
It Is genernlly understood thnt so long
as northern Mexico Is In Its present un
settled state 1'crshlng's men will stay
where they are.
A copy or cirranza's communication,
about which there was less secrecy to
day, was sent to President Wilson.
Secretary Lane communicated with Dr.
J. It. Mott and Judge Gray, the other
members of the American Commission,
and then announced that they would
meet Tuesday to determine whether
further conferences shall be held to dis
cuss the various questions at Ktue other
than the withdrawal or American troops
as Carranza proposes in his message, or
whether tho attitude or Cirrunza has
made It Impossible for the Joint com-
!titrtlmi In rmitf iiiia 1b irnrtf
Although the condition Imposed ror
niiiiiimHiu o; inu iroops were noi 10
his liking, he attempted to make It clear
that his chief objection to ratifying the
documentiwas not based upon the condi
tions, but on the fact ho could not con
scientiously sign nn thing which would
place him In tlic position or having np
peared to sanction even ror a brief time
the presenre In Mexico of foreign troops.
Secretary Lansing said to-day he had
received no Intimation whatever or the
recall or Kllseo Arredondo. the Mexlcin
Ambassador designate. Mr. Ariedomlo
Insists that the report or his recall has
been circulated by certain persons Identi
fied with the Mexican commission, and
that the object Is to embarrass and dis
credit 111 ni.
GUESTS OF T. F. GATY
TO DANCE BY WIRELESS
Ten Couples Will Waltz in
Morristown to .Music
Played in X. V.
Soft, dreamy wnltzrt raggy-taggy
syncopated tune and other kinds of
dance mulc will be shot through the air
for a distance of thirty-one mile this
evening,
While a band plays In the D Foret
Laboratories In High Rrldge, New York
city, ten couple will be dancing to the
music thus fiirnlhed In Morristown,
N. J. So will be born a new dance, "the
radio telephone dance." the llrst of Its
kind.
Tho name does not apply to the steps
or the dance, but to the manner In which
the music will be rurnlshed. Close to
the bind In High Rrldge will be u l)c
Forest oscllllon, 'which will carry the
tunes via wireless. At the other end will
be De Forest audlon and amplifiers to
Jerk the notes out or the air and relay
them to the dancers.
The dance will be In the home or The
odore I. Gaty. vice-president or the Fi
delity and Casualty Company or New
York city. He lives In 29 Morris avenue.
Morrl"town, and the suggestion that he
get his music by wireless was made by
hlf smij a Cornell student. The Colum
bia Grnphophone Company Is collaborat
ing In the work or furnishing the music,
A test of the apparatus on Thursday
proved successful.
NEW YEAR'S LID MALE SURE.
Hotel anil Itestanrant Men Prom
ise tn Close nt 1 A. M.
All doubt ns to the New Year's eve
celebration being a dry affair after 1
A. M. Mondny was removed yesterday
wnen Mayor .Mitcnei received fresh as
surances from the hotel 'and restaurant
men of the city that the Sunday closing
law win ne strictly onservea oy them
this Sunday.
Practically nit of the big hotels and
restaurants have made arrangement for
their patrons to celebrate the advent of
the new year Monday night, when the
lid will be taken off until 3 A. M. Tues
day by the Mayor. A request has been
-ent to the places holding all night li
censes that they nop the sale or liquid
rerreshmenls nt that hour and the re
quest has met with compliance all along
the line.
SPANISH ENVOY PEACE AGENT.
Minister Starts for Madrid After
VIsIHiik Ilerlln.
London, Dec. 29. Marquis de Villa
lobar, Spanish Minister lo Relglum, has
stalled ror Madrid niter a visit to Iler
lln. According to a report In diplomatic cir
cle hero the Minister la charged with
a peace mission.
Water Wag-on Flowed I.lqnor.
Piioknix, Aril.. Dec, 29. Five hun
dred gallons or whiskeys, wines and beer
were poured into a city water wagon
hero to-day and the streets or the busl.
ness section sprinkled with the liquor.
Two hundred automobiles nnd several
floatfl formed a parade that followed the
water wagon. A band played a dlrve.
Tho liquor was confiscated In raids by
the Sheriff under the new Arizona pro
hibition law, and Its disposition was or
dered by Judge Stanford.
' Japaaeee Runpteoseat Tonight
Comprehensive supplement will be Issued
by lb. N. T. Krenlng I'ost devoted u
Jspan.s rolatUe with the United Htstei.
Articles hr leading atute.men und pub
licists ot both countries. Officii announce,
rusnls f Jtpanss Government. Invaluable
to tourist,' 1 uslnras man, and flnsncltr.
Trloe of the New York livening Post to
night complete, ovsr lto pat.a Including
Annual Financial and Real Estate H.vlaws,
i ctnts a copy. All newsstands. -Ait,
NO PEACE
BASIS, IS ALLIES'
TO BE
Entente's Answer, a Long
Document, Bendy for
Transmission.
HELD BACK TILL ALL
ALLIES GET COPIES
Delivery to Be 3Iadc in
Paris Response to
Wilson Later.
"SlKr.T.Tni?v ppA-irrc i
ALLIED CONDITIONS
These Include Surrender of
Central Powers' Con
quered Lands.
Sptclal CabU I) f patch to Tas Sc..
London, Dee. I'll. The answer of the
Allies to Germany's peaco note Is now
ready and could bo Issued before the
new year begins, except for the neccs-
fary formality of transmitting it to nlll
the Allies before final delivery. This
menu. that tho delivery will be mado
early In or In the middle of next week,
perhaps Wednesday.
The delivery will be made at Paris,
after which the communication will be
forwatded to Germany through Amer
ican channels. The allied reply la a
very long document, much moro de
tailed than the German note. This
point has been one of the matters of
discussion durlns the conferences, the
objection having been raised that It Is
too long and should bo short and sharp.
Hut there were so mnny points for
elucidation and such a complete differ
ence of conception of tho objects and
pui poses for which the two sides went
to war that it was found desirable to
extend the note to considerable length.
The presence here of Alexandre Rlbot.
tho French Finance .Minister, per-
mined the French Ministry' to be rep- ,
resented during the coherence?,
t'nii.nnl Optimism shown.
..i,i u ,,.,, here ns a
i riusu.ii in.iiiiiir... .-
result of the final fonn , which the reply
hastnlten. wnicn ... I
that the note will meet with satisfaction i
at Washington.
The reply to the American note will
rotlow within a few days after tho de
I'.wry or the reply to Germany.
Th.. nnnnuncenient that notes n.ie
been sent by the Scandinavian Powers
merely strengthens tho beltet hero that j t .merlca to have Germany consent to
Germany Is frantically anxious for universal peace some time in the future
peace. Political experts are convinced f tne meantime Germany has con
tlv.it the Scandinavian action was die- (Cntraled In her own hands all the to
taled by Germany. One diplomatist ( stmnients for dominating the wot Id
s.ivs he Is convinced that the entire tier- i
man Influence In Spain nnd Holland Is 1
now being directed to persuading tno
Governments of those two countries to
follow tho examplo of other neutrals
The editor or the fperlnlor, wno nun-1
erto has never been overfrlendly to the
United States and has orten printed bit-1
terly sarcastic comment upon President
Wilson's notee to Germany, will publish
to-morrow a strong defence of the peace
move of the President, criticising the re
ception given It here. He save:
"President Wilson's note lias caused
not only a great deal more hostile feel
ing than he expected but very much
more than need have been caused.
Apart from a certain Inexpediency In
time and place and manner, there Is
nothing In the note to cause indignation
or nlatm.
Wilson's Attitude Defined.
"In the first place, the peoples und
Governments of tho Allies ought to re
member that President Wilson has no
power and obviously makes no claim to
power to Intervene or stop the war or
make the combatants accept his or any
body else's terms. After all, as rar as
the dlploniatlo world Is concerned, It le
a world of free speech, and a Government
Is free to ask any question or any other
Power or Powers, and such Power or
Powers nre of course squally free not to
answer the question put to them If they
Judge It Injurious or Inconvenient to
do so.
"Again. R they think ellence would
be rude or unrrlendly. they can answer
tho question In one or the mnny ways
In which questions can be put off, by
giving u general or rather specific reply
or, as the Germans were quick to see, by
repeating their proposal tor n conference.
"While nil these courses are obviously
open to the Allies, there Is nothing to
complain of In President Wilson's uctlon.
No doubt It would have been otherwise
ir lie had put the question In the form
of an ultimatum, and told tho various
Powers to whom lie addressed his noto
that h would be compelled to take this
or that courso If ho could obtain no
reply, but he merely tried to get in
formation, Cannot Feel Angry.
"ilelng a man versed In affairs, ho
mutt know that though information
, may appear exceedingly desirable If Is
pot always possioio io secure u. o
cannot then profess to feel hurt, angry
or nnnojed at tho action of the United
States Government. Instead of our
newspapers expressing amazement or
showing resentment at tho note, we
Hhould think it would havo been much
better if they had odvlsed the Govern
ment to give President WlUwn as muoh
information as it could,
"Our Government should. In our
opinion, meet the question in the wins
spirit in whloh It was put to them.
They oould easily set forth the general
linen on wtilclt alone the. Allloa can
consent to arrant peace. They insight
even go runner ana point out in more
or less detail what must be the logical
ueniiasieci on o ceo no rag,
EXCEPT ON OUR
OUT NEXT WEEK
KAISER EVADES,
IS FRENCH VIEW
Reply to Wilson Note Regard
ed as Trap Both for En
tente and Neutrals.
Sptetal Cabtr Dttpatch to Tm Sex.
I'Ants, Dec. 29, French opinion con
siders that tho outstanding feature of
the German reply to President Wilson la
Its evn-lon of the essential points of the
note nnd Its refusal to make known the
German alms In tho war.
In some quarters the note Is described
as a courteous refusal to comply with
the American request, while in other
quarters It Is considered us Ironic, bor
dering .on Impertinent.
Kverybody tnkes as a more barefaced
trap even than the German note to the
Kntente Allies the suggestion to Presi
dent Wilson that tho belligerents get
Into conference In a neutral country,
from which all neutral representatives
would be excluded, and where no prin
ciples of any kind would bo laid down
In advance.
Algeclrna Conference Cltad.
Attention Is called to the Algeclras
conference In 1905, which got together
without Germnny disclosing any ot her
Intentions. It Is considered that Ger
many Is trying the same thing to-day.
There seem no difference In her method.
The only difference In the circumstances
Is thnt tho end are greater nnd more
Important, and If the Kntente Allies fell
Into the trnp this time there would not
be held over them merely tho vague
menace of possible war but the reality
nf a resumntlou of war to the knire, be-
fftnnlnc with a COUP
in me uaiKnns
carefully prepared by Germany during
inn I " "Li l" ' I ' ' .
If the Kntente accepiea ner proposms
C.emianv certainly would want a letup.
If not an absolute cessation of the
blockade in return for a diminution of
submnrlne warfare. It is believed here.
This would give Germany an opportunity
for recuperation, or which she Is said to
be In sore need, and time for fresh mili
tary preparations.
Can Only Go On I'lnbtliig.
Germany know now that the Kntente
Allies will not make peace on her terms,
but when the negotiations are ended she
will be well prepared for a renewal of
the war. The general opinion Is that
the only thing for the Kntente to do
Is to answer President Wilson, giving
him th olenr explanation asked for
their alms In the war and go on fighting
until Germany I dellnltety conquered.
French opinion is strengmcnen ny im-
Czar's order of the day and the resolu-
tlon adopted by the Socialist congress,
s.iylng that the German note mane no lente a answer will De the expressed
re.il pe.ic proposals and calling on Intention not to talk peaco with Ger
ti, Ptii.i. tft nnilniiA the war vie- ,,i
V""" . .""... . i.
orousiy and lor rmnvei n u. . ""'"ito n Germnn ntei for ne'ino nrefnreri
the full n.mtary and economic resources to Gcimar, for peace efoced
The German note Is considered a trap
t)jjl no cvon U)o m(),t Je.
termlned pacifist could fall to see It, and
America Is expected to fall Into It no term Is concerned the Kntcnto de
mcre than the Kntente. The snare l I matids In the role of conqueror such
.onsldered Just as dangerous for Anter-, , , surrender of all the German
lea ns for the Kntente In that the l.er- ' ,,,,
man note CNClutle neutrals rrom sue
,,fIl0e COnrernce and It Is no advantage
SEES WILSON AS NEW
"FATHER CHRISTMAS"
German Xcwspnpor Says the
'resident Causes Disgust
and Annoyance.'
prriat Cable Prtpatch to Tnr. !c
London, Dec. 29. The Ilerlln l.aUalnn
iclytr print the following comment upon
President Wilson's peace note :
"Who would have dreamed of Father
Christmas In the guise In which he has
visited um this year? Imagine Father
Christmas with n. clean shaven race,
with glasses bridging hi nose most
womteiful of alt, lathing Kngllsh!
"Yet It Is true enough. In tho eyes of
children the good old fellow with the
heavy pack on his back may tstlll retain
his ancient fame ; for us grownups he
has been hustled out, perhaps forever, by
the Yankee with hi peace munlfeslo.
"You've canned us a deal of disgust
and annoyance, you worthy old Judge
Wilson, us much a the packet of to
bacco which beais your Hume, which Is
htlll to bo hnd In certnln un-Gennun, un
patriotic shop In Ilerlln and has caused
some of us the deepest nausea, You've
furnished the enemy with munitions and
held up our own food supplies,
"Howcer, If you really mean It nerl
ously, and will get some uleaiii Into your
machinery, we will forget the grievances
wo have ugalnst you, Father Christmas
Wilson, nnd follow you as tho i.its. fol
lowed the Pled Piper of Hamelln, only
not to our destruction."
BERLIN IS SCEPTICAL.
Mlli Seen of llrltlali I:IIiik
Cnliled IT, S. Comment,
mni.lN. by wireless, Dec. 29. "Tho
telegraphic reports or American com
ment on the German answer to Presi
dent Wilson's 'peace note' reached Reilln
only by way or the Kngllsh cnblc ond
oro thererorc received in Ilerlln with
tho utmost suspicion, says a statement
by the senil-otllclal Overseas News
Agency to-d.iy.
"In numerous other casea the nclunl
American utterances have prated to bo
I nimosi iiirectiy contrary to tho repro
unctions putpnst'iy niiereii uy Kngllsh
newspapers," Dm agency ndils. "Till
suspicion Is Mill further Increased by
the fact that these Kngllsh reports re
peat the traditional Kngllsh Insinua
tions against German policy."
WhltrldRe'a Condition Serlons,
Th condition of Frederick W, Writ.
ridge, prttildent of tho Third Av..i,n.
Railroad company, who was operated on
i Wednesday night for appendicitis, was
j said last night at the New York Hospital
i to oo sun serious.
REPL Y;
Wilson Definitely Learns
Entente Will Reject Teu
ton Proposals.
LONG INDICTMENT
AGAINST KAISfiB
Pacific 3Iove Declared Mere
ly Effort to Escape
Retribution.
GERMANY MUST
ADMIT DEFEAIT
Tli is Jicld Necessary Befbri
Any Parley Will Be
Agreed To.
Washington, Deo. SO. Pretlttaaf
Wilson has now definitely learned tbt
the Hntcnte will sweeplngly reject th
peace proposals of the Central Powers.
Tho news has come through dlplo
mnttc channels thnt tho official Entente
replica have been finally revised an4
will be sent here within the next few
days for transmission. They describe
the Entente's position In such manner
ns to leave no vcstlgo of doubt that all
i - ,1 1 , ,..
'vi'" vnumh m w u v.
the question.
It In learned here that tho replies
of the Entento Powers go to consider
able length to dispel any Illusions
which President Wilson or Germany,
may have ns to tho probable end ot
the war. The peace proposals of the
Central Pqjvers havo been seized upon
ns nn opportunity for the Entente to
compile nn elaborate Indictment of
Germnny for the benefit of world
opinion nnd to Indlcnto tho extent of
the punishment which tho Entente Is
determined to Inlllct before terminat
ing tlic conflict.
Dominating Feature.
The dominating fe.ituro of tho Eit-
""" "' "L1 I'xrcpi " responso
to accept the retribution which the
Entente nations claim she cannot hope
to escape. So far ns reference to
i ". " ; "
i "t this time would bo little short of
tldlculdits,
Rut the Entente tnukes no effort to
court discussion nf pence terms until
the military situation has been shaped
to the Entente's satisfaction. Having
suffered enormously through Ger
many's quick onslaughts and pre
paredness (which the Entonto regards
oh proof that tho Central Powers
plunged Europe Into wnr for their own
prestige), and having mnde the super
human sacrifices necessary to free Eu
ropo from "military bondagu" the En
tente now see. the first signs of full
realization of Its power to safeguard
tho liberty of Europe.
The Entente teuponse is about 1
per cent, for the benefit of Germany
nnd 99 per cent, for the benefit ot opin
ion In the Entente nnd neutral coun
tries. It Is so worded as to emphasize
I tho solidity und identic designs of the
Entente Allies and to reflect their un
broken nllcglancn to tho common
cause. Great earn Is taken to reflect
the aspiration of all tho Individual
countries forming the Entento, though
this, too, Is for tholr own und not tor
Germany's benefit.
rtenilndcr to Germany.
Opportunity Is not overlooked to re- '
mind Germany that there was a time
when the Entente nations wanted to
discus peace, pleaded in fact ror a oon-fci-enee
to nave Kuropo tho Incalculable
cost In lives and treasure whloh oil
nations must havo known would follow
In tho wake of tho war
This was the conrerenco whloh Klnr
George of England suggested to Em
peror William while tho question of war
or peace hung In tho balance. The
Kntente wanted peace then. It Is em.
phanlzed, but the German Emperor re
jected the Idea of a confereneo, thereby
pledging all Europe to consequent devas
tation and ruin, Now conditions are
ipverscd, according to tho Entente.' lit
Is the German Emperor who wanta
peace, but it I described hy tho Entente
;ih a "peace to escape lotrlbutlon." a
lie.ice to escape paying the price for
having curried Into execution tho plan
of conquest that has failed.
References to Germany's broken troatv
with Relglum, the to-oallvi enslaving
nf tho Relglans, tho war waged on the
I'Tenon women nt LIIlc, the Entente's
long list of so-c.illed outrages perpe
trated by Geniuu militarism, will all
bo revived, It 1s understood Hero. The
Entente's answer is so framed aa to
bring the fervor of patriotism to all who
are Identified with tho nllled cause and
Incidentally to alienate neutral affections
from tho alms of the Central Powers.
Apparent Collusion Resented.
Ao-ordlnir to diplomatic gosolp, Presl.
dent Wilson's mite closely rollowins; Oer
tnany's ihmi'O proposals ami taken every,
where as an effort to rcenforce the Gr.
man plea has been responsible for caus
ing Entente statesmen to frame a
"da.mnlng Indictment" or Germany tn
tholr replies Instead ot slmfdy defining
tho offer to dlscusa pwico except on their .
own terms, . '
It Is known that repioentattr-s of a
Entente have hesitated be-tween these
two counres. It seems certain that
' ... . k H j ,
