STRAj
fcmmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
0
EXTRA
'a,
VOL. III. NO. 92 ,
NIGHT
A.a if ll 1 1 1 r I
c .
KWE-
HtT
FLY
KI! W mufffBM m - ufiV t4t iA-tfe b & yWWpWiWjMB 3Bft i Hj Vsi J.BfciyBBJfTliaMrjpC)?MMKTBBBBE'lBLlilHy J "ST7fflsswBBKBf3
ML iflBanJL .-. wAv- . T'ftt
!!( "" "gv t r i - it. - - '- -
Below arc the first Government airmen to arrivo at the Navy Yard of tho dozen who started from Long Island today. Left to rteht, thpy aro Lloutcnnnt
Coyle, Corporal Salmon, Tex C. Mlllmnn, instructor; Sergeant Blakcly nnd Instructor Jloynolds. Tho latter. twv mude-K roujih Jnndinr in the thinl
machine, -which is pictured nbovo as it struck tho ground on its noso, breaking n wheel. Tho first two named were tho first to arrivo.
ALLIES TO NAME'
TERMS IN REPLY
Unswer Will State Con
cessions to Be Demanded
' From Germany
MAY BE ISSUED TODAY
LONDON", .Dec, 30.
Not only vlll tlin Allies' nnswer to Cler-
(EJany'a pcacp proposal cloarly ot forth the
Iprtnclplos for wh'ch tlio Hntonlo nations
faro fighting, but It will contain a general
: outline of tho terms on which Knglapd
ind her Allies aro willing to negotiate. It
"was confidently' expected hero today.
The fact that tho note would list terms
to bo demanded of Germany was expected
ss a result of nn awakening; within the
list few dnya In Ungland that the Germans
propaganda In neutral nations must bo
: "effectively answered.
Press und publlo alike united today In
Ube belief that tho best possible answer
rwould bo a comprehensive reaffirmation of
! tho Allies' alms, and a statement of what
th Allies' regard as necessary concessions
Pfrom their enemies as a basis for even con
iiaerlng talk of peace. Germany's reply
to the American note. It Was pointed out
'here, failed to meet the principal request
of President Wilson's appeal for u listing
of possible peaco terms.
Meanwhllo Europe's Interest centered In
Paris, where the note Is to bo Issued- The
entire Entente press today reflected tense
realisation of tho Importanco of th docu
ment.
The Allies' note has been completed. Itus-
Continued on Fsio Twe. Celomn !'
THE WEATHER
A For Philadelphia and vicinity fylr
ana continued coia lomant o" puy.
? icith lowest aoout IS degrees; gmtla to
moderate jiortAtc.it to north wind.
LENGTH OF D-Y
fw rli 738 am. Moon rlwj UilE'S'
da Mt 4 41.-1. Sloan snuU-i B33p.m-
DELAWAttB 1UVKB TIDK CJMNOBS
CHKBTNUT 8TBBIJT
- vaUr U-I5a.ro. I-w wur.. J-SSS-
HUhwIur 01 am. litoto water 9T p. m.
THUPEKAXimEja.T JEACH JIf"2L
5T0TToi"it .ia l -t ?; -
T
aBI 331 25 2ft' 27 -7
I.0ST AND FOUND
.'" t """ ""' - . .i M. In.
RKAf CLBRK Head otflc el 2'ft-T,
t tWA AoslyTwIth r.fr.ttPM sad -nr
ilto-.u,t. brown nu. 0e. 39 wr twpk
tesi SUUon. boat 6 p. m- IU
W JajiiMsn st JUwsnl,
m in . ' '
Don't Fail to See
HERE FROM LONG ISLAND IN 1 HOUR 37 MINUTES
. " tw'.
3383? &&&
TEUTONS ADVANCE
IN CARPATHIANS
Captiire New J Ground on
Transylvanian Front and
C50 Prisoners
DRIVE ON 200-MILE LINE
g. IIEUMN. Dec. 30.
Further prreress of German-Au-tro-IIun-(tarlan
n'.lachlnir troops on tho Transylva
nian front, despite tennolous resistance, was
announced In today's official report. Tho
Teutonic columns entered intrenched posi
tions of the enemy nnd pushed further
ahead, dsple strong- counter-attacks. The
Itussian defenders left ten officers and 650
men of other ranks and seven machine cuns
In tho nttackers' hand.
On tho AVchduke Joseph's front successful
patrol senlce was reported In tho snow.
covered forests of tho Carpathians. Prince
Leopold reported unfavorable weather had
caused relspso Into usual trench Hshtlnc
from Infantry activity.
German. Austro-Hung-arlan. Bulgarian and
Turkish troops aro now upon the offensive
all alons the line In Uumanla. Attacks are
being delivered acslnst the Husslans over a
front more than -00 miles long-, from the
Carpathian Mountains on the eastern fron-1
tier 'of Transylvania, across rvanacmu.
Dobrudja, as far as the Delta of tho Dan
ub. While the Austrd-Gtrman forces In the
Carpathians are pushing their drive the
German allies along the southern bound
ary of Moldavia nd on tho Danube began
DOG "TELLS" OF DISAPI'EAHANCK
From Deserted House Show
Master la M Using
Darks
The barking of a colli, dog In the .!
of' John Allen, a psperhang.r, of 515 JU.t
ir.nnan street. Germantown, today bavo
he first SlM that Allen was W
ml .Sunday neighbor. ba. heard the doe
Sag. When they knocked on Ih. door
J? . ' ,M response. Somo one tsie.
otoMd to th Gemantown poJlc rtatlon.
uSmt smlls with tro poltosmen
JJS AW- house MM They ford
opTth. door snJ " la
dBMrtsd huso- AlUo's wife wo
ISJdSm jsa
i P ".'"" "frihr. months. Alien
w "T" '.Vh; bu Uousb Sunday and
Th. Aae was sent to the
hasn't MtWUBd.
hasn't MturBw. --- wylvan society
ZWT2ESJalt S Animal
IW4- li - - - -
g
NEW YEAR FETES
PROMISE THRILLS
Despite Sunday, Celebra
tions This Year Will
Pass All Marks
THRONGS FOR THE HOTELS
?
New Year's Kve celtbratlons will be
nono tho leiw eiithuslastle this enr be
cause of Hunday, nnd at nil of tho hotels
nnd enfes the hend waiters predict record
brrnklng crowds.
Tho unutunl prosperity Is expected to at
tract thousand' of men and women to the
hosttlrles In tho central section of tho clly
who herstoforo celebrated on a. less dab
orato scale In their homes.
No lliiuor will be sold until midnight.
Orders for beverages will be received be
foro that time, but the money for the orders
cannot be received Until Monday morning,
nor can tho drinks bp served until then.
TAlii.B K8i:HVKl
At thq Uellesue-Stratford nnd Mtx-Carl-ton.
as well as at the smaller places, the head
waiters today exhibited long lists of pa
trons who had reseneU tablsa many weeks
ago nnd already had paid for their reserva
tions. .At tho majority of the hotels tables
were procured at a stipulated rate, and the
patrons will order food and berages to
tallng that amount.
"This will b the biggest New Year's Kva
In tho history of all of the Philadelphia
hotels," said John Carl Kellmar. head
waiter at the Vd'g- MW- ha hundreds
Of reservations. Young and old wl)l csle-
C'cntlnwd on 1'sse T, C"lmn Thrte
5IHS. COKEY'S FINEItY IN M1X-UI'
Ofllcials Find Lingerie In Trunk of
Woman Traveling Companion
NHV? YOK, Pee. 30. Considerable filmy
lingerie belonging to Mr. William BMji
Corey, formerly Mabelta Glllman. musical
oomedy star, is worrying ouatoras amlals
today.
When Mrs. Corey, whoso husband was
formerly president of tho United Slates Steel
Onwratlon, orrtvsd on the nohambs.u
front Bordeaux. hr dUraUon and search
of her BlgbW piBOBS ef baggag revealed
nothing dHt-bt. i
Bxamiaem asMrt, however, that li going
through, the baggage of Miss Marthli Ship
py, IravsJinc oonpann of Mrs.' Corey,
(hy found oonsUUraW flaery undscJarBd.
Miss Bhlppsy BjtptataBd that tb flnsry be
longed to Mr CorBy and Md probably
DBBfi packed la her trunks by mistake. A
nOlus Will b made Monday
New Year's Parade in Pictures in the Late Editions of Monday's Evenipg Ledgtar
PHILADELPHIA. SATURDAY, DECEMBER
OFFICIALS DOOMED
TO-AID COX BATTLE
Governor Opens Campaign
to Drive Penrose Men
From I Till
TWO ALREADY OUSTED
Cox Claims Victor!
in Speakership Fight
EDWIN It. COX, UrumbauK'h-Vuro
ennillilato for Sneaker of tho
J House, today issued tho following
statement nt uarnsuurK;
"This fight is won. I will have n
comrortablo majority nnd my elcc
tion as Sneaker of tho House is as
sured. The developments of tho last
week have all been in favor of my
candidacy. Tho friends of decent
things In Pennsylvania have rallied
to tho standard which our stdo of
this fight has raised and a victory
for tho rehabilitation uf the Hepuli
lienn party as nn agency for the
ncoplo Is ours. As Speaker of tho
House my coursu shall be in strict
pnmnllnnce with tilt! Dosltlon I hnVU
t maintained throughout tho prelim
I inary campaign."
Senator Edwin II, Vnre, before taking
Ihe train for Harrisburg today, called
upon Senator I'rnrose and his followers
to produce proof of their claims in be
half of Itlclmrd J, IlaMwIn. candidate
for (he speakership of the House.
"I challenge the UaldwJn people,"
he said, "to produce the name of their
101, 106, 110 or 130 vote that they
claim for llaldwln."
The dbihal of 3au: IX. Ita w i, as
Suwliitendeiit of Publte Grounds and
Hulldlngs, and J. IuU HrUlner as olialr.
man of tho Hlate Board of Motion Pleturo
Censors, has thrWfl Capital Hill Into eon
stsrnatlen, and aMUIonal dsapltatns are
looked for bolora th Speakership fight is
Milled. HBMrdteg to dlptabw from Ilar
rUburg. Th hBhadlo of l-iuuo. who ttM ssrvsd
the Stat for vim years, but who was
plllaUyaUgBlwlth SBaator PoHroM. ad
Breitlnger, who Is Us4 o a MeWtofcol
follow wr ts Ort ibovb m4 by the
aovMiwr toward tkrowtog taa vMf powr
of the Ijtate a4s sJMratkMi Into lb fas
tlonal oaattst. tt w " loday br lh
managers uf the Os capalgu.
Th rtjpalAiBg IfBuresB ItBufwirts on
CoullaueJ a 1'ase T. Column ttrt
30, 1916
CtntMRT,
QUICK
$500 WORTH OF LUMBER DESTROYED BY FIRE
i'lHr (Mnitln for ut itmUInf , .vnluttt nt f OW). wtro desttoyl thi"
nftrnwi lit n fti In lh stoWrtsJWt an the third ftwlr of th twIUUnit
or T. 1). Kite J? Co., bd mitnufNltuien, Coinmewlnl iv venue iml Mtt
flln streets. The flte wa dlteoVorctl by n wntclimnn, all the regular
employes having left for the Satutdny hnlf holiday.
$50,000 FIRE SWEEPS FRANKLIN, PA.
FKANKL1N, !., Die. 80. rite stnitlng lit the HygUmhi lhut
tuilny ptcnd to n dostii other bhslncsa huutxM la the henit uf thj etty
t.uislng 50,000 dntunge.
HOPE TO FREE AMERICANS DETAINED IN SYRIA
WASHIJJQTOIf, Dec. 30. Hope or tho r.trly islnsa of 00 Ainoi
lean detninttl lit Syiln'wnH revived todny when Ambassador Ulkus,
nt Constantinople, Informed the State Department that he could ar
range their trnuiportntloii ftom Jaffa to Bcltut by land.
KAISER CONGRATULATES VON BISSING. DANGEROUSLY ILL
LONDON, Dec. 30. Au Antsteidnm dispatch totlny Bald KnUet
Wllhclm hns sent n complimentary message to General von Hissing,
the Oct mint Governor of Belgium, who is dniigcrouttly ill of pneu
monia. The Kaiser expressed Ills nppicclntlon of von Hissing's
"strong hand, faislghtcd leadoishlp and success In keeping order and
quiet" lit Belgium, nccotding to tho dispatch.
U. S. SUES TO HKKAK ALLEGED AUTO HORN TRUST
WAB1IINOTON. Doc. SO The Government Ima brought ""H t break tip the
nllcgi'il tminopollstlo inethuds nf tlin l.ovV'll
Ncwnrk. N. J., makers of tho Klaxon niitomobllo horn. In au iirtlun tiled ut Novvark
under the Clnton nntl trust Inw. the Department of Juxtlcu seeks n perpetual
Injunctlun rcstrnlnlnr; tlio manufacturing company from making contracts with
soiling agents which stipulate that thu latter nlmll nut deal in nny other horn.
EDUAKD STRAUSS, COMPOSER, DIES IN VIENNA
IimtU.V. lice. 30. I-Munril fitrnuss, well known Vlojinesp ronir. died yoa
Terdny nt ills" homo In Vienna, nccordliu?
nan clKlitV'Oiw )ears of ago.
THOMPSON AND BREWERY
1'ITTHHUMJII. Dec. 30 Jiulgo W. 11. 8. Thomson nnd C P. Orr In tlio United
States District Court today granted contlnunncus, putting i(T until tho May term of
court tlio trials of .1. V. Thompson, tho Dnlonlown tmnkcr, nnd tho In on cry onsen.
Tho Inttor cases Includo lot Indictments
of Pennsylvania und tho United Hlntcn llrouorn' Awocnllnn, of Now York, which
nru nccusi'il nf making money contributions to the IDU election of n United Htntes
Senator nnd members of Congress In
practices act.
SECOND N. Y. ARTILLERY LEAVES RORDER FOR HOME
HAN ANTONIO, Tex . Deo. 30. Tho Hccond New York Field Artillery entrained
nt McAltcn today for Its homo Hlntlon, whoro It will ho mustered out.
RIGID PROSECUTION ORDERED IN FOOD CASES
NKW VOItK, Dee. 30. United Htutoi Attorney Cleorno V. Anderson today
ndJourneiTtJio convention of Federal pioocctitors, Miimmoncd t recolvo Instructions
its to their procedure In food Investigation-!, Thoy returned to their districts this
nftcrnoon undor orderH to prosecute nil otToiidersL
U. OF P. GRADUATE SAVED FROM DRIFTING SEAPLANE
After drifting at sen for tovcral hours In n dlsuhlod hydroaeroplane, T. K.
Oldirl, n Japnneso grndunto or tho UnlVornlty of I'ennsylvnuln, was picked up by
tho cuptnln of n tugboat und taken to Ktntcn Island. Okuri, who Is tho son of n
mllllonalro banker of Tokln, hired tho aeroplnno from an nvlutlon school on Htnton
Island. lie told George Grundy, who t-anductn the school, that liu was an nrniy
aviator In his own country nnd wanted to tnlco a llttlo trip nlong tho coast.
LLOYD GEORGE FORMS
t
LONDON. Dec 30. The I.loyd George Government has decided to create an nlr
ministry to take tho place of tho nlr board. Tho object is to carry on a moro vigor
ous air offensive against the Germans on nil fronts.
MAY STRIP JOFFRE OF ALL AUTHORITY
PAIII8, Dec 50. Heavily censored article appearing In Djo Parisian press
Indicate that Marshal Joffre. former commander-in-chief of the French armies, may
not have any uctlvo part In tho future In dlrttliiK the aetlvltion nf tlia French
armies.
U. S. TRADE FOR YEAR, EIGHT BILLION, SETS RECORD
WASHINGTON. Deo. 30. Hxporta and Import of tho Unitd Htotwi for 1910
will bo nearly $1,000,000,000. Never before has any nation railed up such a dagger
ing total.
OLD LIPPINCOTT PROPERTY DEAL COMPLETED
Negotiations havo been closed In tho sale of l)n- Llppineott properly at north
east corner of Broad and Walnut street to the Fidelity Trust Company, whlah -will
ereot a twenty-story office bulldlpg on tho site. Final papers for the sale wjro
signed In New York.
ONLY ONE MAIL DELIVERY ON NEW YEAR'S DAY
Postmaster Thornton announced today tlwt there would be only one mail
delivery on New Year's Day. Substation will tw ktpt open unty 11 oajok fur h
ale of stamp, obtaining mocwy orders and Mfew 1I buslnaw. At the gansnil
postolllee stomp will bo for Bale from 1 o'eloatc In the morning 09 fc'w Yaar's Day
until midnight.
GOOD SKATING ON LAKES IN THE PARKS
There is skating today on QusIIm. Conoounw and Ciuunoupls IikM In Pair
mount Park, Hunting Park, the lake nr tho Mwlon Crloket Clulj and Woodkle
Park Lake. Tho cold snap, whlah got In last night, snt tho mercury dawn to the
30 mark, freoxlug the lake. The leo-U said tp bo unusually smooth.
H1. t tm rente Lmn CSutwt
N'EW-S
- .McCimnell Miinufncturliin Company, of
to-ii dlsnntrh from Hint city todny. Ho
CASES PUT OFF UNTIL MAY
ngnlnst seventy-two lirqwIiiB corporations
violation of tho so called Federal corrupt
BRITISH AIR MINISTRY
PRICE ONE CENT
U.S. AIR FLEET
REACHES CITY
IN 'WAR' TEST
Hour and 37 Minutes Besfc
Time Made From
Mincoln, L. I.
ONE MACHINE DAMAGED
Oflkors, in Mnklng Flight, Seek.
to Qualify for Dofcnsq
Scn'lco
Seven of n. fleet nf twelve OoTernmtnt
aeroplanes, which stnrted from Mlneoliv,
K I,, at 9 tit this morning for rhtladclphls.
In lha greatest flight from a military atamU
point every nttempted In this country, tnnd
ed before, noon today in tho aviation ftjd.il
nt tho Philadelphia navy yard.
The first of the governmental blrdmen to
arrivo were Lieutenant A. St. Coyle bM
Corporal II. It. Rahnon They were th
fifth to leave Mlneola nnd landed at ths
navy yard at 11:33. covering tho Uo-itilla
courss In on hour knd thirty-Seven mtnuv.
Tho seenni) plflho drifted down on to tlis
aviation neld nt 11.34 o'clock, with T. C.
Mlllman nnd A. V. Illntr, Tho third n,-v-chlno
with C. II. tteynnlds nnd It. Utakely
floated down nt 11:30. These nvlntor
mails n bad landing, the machine betnx
damaged when it struck a flagpole, Th
lower plane nns crushed by tho Impact
nnd one of tho forwnrd wheets was bftdlf
bent. Tho ninchlno careened when It hit
tho ground nnd tho fore part was hurled'
In n ditch. Iteynolds nnd Illakely leaped
out nnd escaped Injury.
hi:vi:iii:ly cold tuip
The fourth plnne, driven by Captain J. 11
Cnrberry, nllghtcd nt it :80. Carberry-mads
tho .trip alone. Ho nmdo a graceful land
ing, nnd when he alighted he complained
of having suffered from the cold during
tlio trip.
Tho fifth to nrrtvn uns Lleuteunnt 3. XX
Miller, who nlxo was nlone Miller, by nom
clever driving, saved himself from bad
spill, lis una flying low, about' 200 feet
from tho ground, when he inndo his ap
pearance. He was heading directly townrd
two trees. . and ft eemed( that nothlnff
could prevent him from driving his plans
Into their naked branches when ha mads j
n nhnrp turn, rose tn nn altitude of nbout
ton feet, wheeled gracefully IIUo a great
bird over tlio Delaware Uivcr nnd then
Inndcil gently In the center of tho Aviation
ttehl. '
Tim sixth btnlmnn, Lieutenant D. R Mil
ler, tnndo n good landing.
, HAD MOTOlt TltOUULli
A. I- Allen1 nan tho seventh to nrrlvo,
nnd motor trouble nlmoat made' a rains-
troplio of his lauding. Ho was nbout 10Q
t
feet over tlio field when his motor stopped,
Allen dipped his machine, however, nnd
larded without accident. Ha snld hi
motor stopped five times during the trip.
To innlio matters worse, his hnnda weiWi
so badly HtllTenrd by cold that he had dif
ficulty In controlling his plane
-V report reached the navy anl nbout
noon that two of tho governmental filers
had been obliged to ullglit tn Trenton
Hmrrnl hundred nirsons. Including olll-
cers of tho army and iinvy.'wcre on hanp
nt tho nv-latlon Held to greet tho blrdmen.,
Tho field was outlined with strips of whit
cloth no that tho htrdmen could locate
tho landing placo at a great altitude.
FLi:w at man altitudh
The spectators heard the hum ut tho
motor'of tho plane which carried C'uyls
and Salmon for severnl niluutea before tho
machine appeared on tho skyline. The craft
wnn flying nt au altitude of 3000 feet and
was following tho course of the Delaware.
As tho piano approached tho field It
enrne lower and lower like a hawk prepar
ing to pounce upon Its prey. Tho symbol
"31" In. big black figures could bo seen aus
ponded below tho imiehlno as It drifted
lower. Opposlto the aviation field tho piano
mado a graceful curve over the Delaware,
nnd settled down slowly to the field. A
minute later the aviators had nllghtcd,
Tho blrdmen were dressed In fur-lined
leather Jackets with fur collars, and wrirb
leather helmets and thick underclothlnsf.
In splto of their heavy 'clothing they de
clared that tho wlnd.wus cold aloft and bit
through to their skins. They stated that
the nlr current were contrary and hin
dered their progress considerably.
FOLLOWKD DELAWAP.H
At on a! tlmo tliojiluno ntlolned a height
of EOOO feet. Coyle and Halmon stated
tltat they had much dUUeulty In finding
their way until tbey -sighted the Delaware
winding like a slvr ribbon over the land
scape. They followed thq course of tba
river until they reached tlio navy yard
Lieutenant Dolling, who mndo th start
with the others, was obliged to abandon
thu flight, temporarily because of engine
trouble. Ho repaired his motor shortly
after noon and rose again and starlad
toward Philadelphia. He passed over Man
hattan at 13:13. Captain I. 8. Itader la In
charge of the aviation field at the. nary
yard,
Tho lwH aviators appeared befor
dawn today at the Hempstead station st
Mlnsja, and started "tuning up" their
(Bgn TM start was mad at 63 la
Coutfsutd on I'M Two. Caliumi Yxat
Uern3tarff's New Year
Message to Americans
TSJTY HPPB for the New Year Ir
J.Y-1 that it will crown with success
President-Wilson's efforts to btins
about lastlDg peace and put an end
to tne Bunerins oi war-
m
M
II
p
t
--iSSiK-'" S-5,i-
ijtjMUi,uiir:iriiiiiiisliif
