NO
LOCAL NEWS
TO
PRESS TIME
JOCIED
V PRES
"SERVE '
4
YfEA'ER FORECAST
Generally r tonight and Sunday.
.OCALA, FLORIDA, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1916
VOL. 22 NO. 30&
fl
Set
LSI
it
He
u
In
N
Will St Forth Again Central Powers' Respon-
I sibility for the War
GERIlf
HER ALLIES, HAV1HG MADE SCRAPS OF PAPER OUT OF TREATIES, CANNOT
110V OBTAIN PEACE WITHOUT ADEQUATE GUARANTEES .
(Associated Press)
Paris, Dec. 3The Triple Entente
Allies' reply to German peace note
will be handed American Ambas
sador Sharp tat, said the Petit
Parisian, and we published tomor
row. The notes forth again the
Central Powers ponsibility for the
war, said the p, and insists on
reparation and tutions as outlined
by Premier Daloyd-George in his
"speech in the h of Commons. It
says that Genr removed in ad
vance the basir negotiations by
failing toforrre proposals. The
note suggests tthe Berlin cabinet
in 1914 havingclaimed its con
tempt for trealcannot-pretend to
I SECOND IIOTE
IE
LAST CHANCE
OF LEAPYEAR
German Government Says It Did Not Every -Eligible Dansel May VuT a
Misconstrue the First
Communication
- (Associated Press)
Berlin, Dec. 30. President Wilson
several days ago sent a second note j
. Husband or a Silk Dresa by
Tomorrow Evening
i
It is well understood that in Ocala
there is a large band of single men
who are too modest to ask admission
tc. double blessedness, and tho not
obtain the samiditions as powers explaining the first to the belligerents, owning. up to the fact have been hop
respectful og signatures, and but it has ben withheld from the pub-
must offer guaies.
lie here, it is said, because the Ger
man reply showed the German gov-
ing for proposals from the other sex
all the year which ends at midnight
! tomorrow. It is not so well known,
SPAIN SHIS nut
ernment hadn't misconstrued the I but it is established by a custom like
"purpose and aims" of the president's I the law of the Medes and Persians
Its Energetic est Against Sub
Outrages inat Contrast to
Ame Apathy
(Assoi Press)
first communication.
LANSING HAS NO COMMENT
Washington, D. C, Dec. 30. Secre
tary Lansing refused to comment on
that any lady who proposes to a man
jduring leapyear and is refused, pro
vided he isn't engaged, is entitled to
a new silk dress. 1
A bunch of philanthropists got to
the report that a second explanatory Igether last night and laid the case
note had been sent the belligerents before Judge Smith, who in the kind
to correct possible misinterpretations I ness of his heart offers to marry with
of the president's note calling for out any fee any lady to the man she
Madrid, Spaia Pans), Dec. -Jpeace terms. He refused to indicate J choses provedid the proposition is
The note aded to Germany on
the submarine tion by the -Span
whether he thought the report might I made before twelve o'clock tomorrow
have arise nout of sending abroad evening. As the time is rather short,
ish governmenlews 'at length the tne secretary's statements regarding I propositions in writing, mailed before
policy of Madrom the time tne the note. midnight, will count.
first Spanish tthe lsidoro, was other officials said they were sure The said philanthropists furnished
torpedoed in st, 1915. It de- th Berlin dispatch referred to two the Star with a list of names of the
clares the Sp: government has Statements Secretary Lansing issued! following shy and shrinking men, in
always mamtaihat it was illegal tfce day after the original note was any one of whom any lady will find an
to destroy pris is the constant made public. useful and congenial companion. Some
practice of subes, and that the ... names have been overlooked, and
i JJ.J 1 I K MKANT W K.I.I. I - . . ...
caDinei aiso uucu m uuacno- i some have been overlooked on Dur-
tion of the dttion of London, Wasbington, Dec. 30 The Ameri- pose, but there is not one who is not
notably articlevhich, it is main- ,,nmpnf the thre known to at least one lady:
principal points in the note to the ''P.. H. Nugent, Ben Rhemauer,
tained, submarviolate by aban-
(Ills
ill TOR
SEABOARD
AID HUE RAILWAY OFFERS SPECIAL
ADVANTAGES TO OUR CITY
The Seaboard Air Line proposes toj to Ocala meant something. Mr. Lin
hrinc Ocala back into its own as a
winter resort and point of interest for
tourists, and, addressing a meeting
of business men in the courthouse last
night, G. Z. Phillips, assistant general
passenger agent, and S. G. Linder
beck, division passenger agent, of the
railroad, gave assurances that they
would advertise this city from one end
of the land to the other, just as they
do the other prominent resorts, if the
people of Ocala would in turn make it
worth while for the tourist to come
here.
Mr. Phillips announced that in the
meantime arrangements have been
made for three-day stop-overs at
Ocala on all straight tickets through
here, and it is probable that a five
day stop-over will be allowed. Both
Mr. Phillips and Mr. Linderbeck said
they saw no reason why Ocala should
not become a place of attraction for
the tourists. Mr. Phillips suggested
that committees be appointed from
every civic organization in the city,
looking to making Ocala all that a
winter resort should be.
He suggested that an investigation
be made to find out whether the city
and county could give financial sup
port looking to making Ocala attrac
tive for tourists.
Mr. Linderbeck stated that the
granting of the stop-overs would in
itself advertise Ocala, suggesting to
the purchasers of tickets that a visit
derbeck said, furthermore, tnat he
would this winter do everything in his
power to get the winter visitors to the
state to visit Ocala.
The proposition made by represen
tatives of the Seaboard was unani
mously endorsed by the business men
present at the meeting, the proper
committees will be appointed, and the
project carried through to success. A
resolution, offered by Dr. Chace, who
said that when he became mayor he
would do everything he possibly could
to further the interest of the city,
was adopted by the meeting. .The
resolution reads as follows:
Resolved, That it is the unanimous
sentiment of this meeting that Ocala
take hold of" the proposition of the
Seaboard Air Line regarding the
question of attracting tourists to our
town and making Ocala attractive to
tourists. That we ask the S. A. L. to
make the stop-over privileges to ex
tend five days. That a committee' of
five be appointed by the chairman of
this meeting to formulate a plan for
a permanent organization .for 'this
purpose.
Col. R. F. Rogers, president of the
Board of Trade, who acted as chair
man of the meeting, has appointed on
the committee of five the following:
Messrs. C. W. Hunter, chairman;
I M. R. JWilliams, John Boisseau, C. Ed.
Hi
run
J
7
mi
Stubborn Battle on the Road
to the Sereth
ACCORDING TO BERLIN, TEUTONS Oil VERDUM FRIT HAVE
REPULSED ALL FRENCH COUNTER ATTACKS
(Associated Press)
The Russians and Rumanians are
fighting a heavy rear-guard action as
they retire toward the Sereth line in
northeastern Wallachia and southern
Moldavia. The German war office
claimed steady progress for the Teu
tonic forces along the entire front be
tween the Rumanian Carpathians and
the Danube. Along the Moldavian
frontier the Teutons have taken en
tente positions, capturing 660 prison
ers. ,
Operations on - the Franco-Belgian
front have" been confined to small
movements in the region- of Verdun.
Berlin-announced the repulse of sev
eral French attacks.
IIICftlTUICOT MflTlflM
LHLiniCOl UHllUli
OFTHE WORLD
Bonds Exchanged and Coin Stacked
Up This Year by the
Billion
NIPPON IS A
(Concluded on Fourth Page) 1
doning crews oken ships to the A - . f, . George Easterling. T. D. Lancaster,
mercy'of the vifar from land. .. f putrals woulri h . , "rendered Lawton Smith, R. C. Smith, E. L.
The note fu recalls the vigor ,nxnlOT.Mp, , if thiX war Stapp. Frank Sanders. Henry Hender-
of the represems of the Spanish continuedf a; suggestion that arrange- son, Carlton Ervin, Jim Pyles, W. V.
government, wit .say8, aome- m.nt h. mai1fc s Mftrantee flt,ft;nst Wheeler, Sam Mathews, J. H. J.
times, caused terlin government future conflicts and proposal that Counts, D. Niel Ferguson, M. L. Mer-
xo De surprises? rauicai hp fminfi fftr ,.mrmrW Vie I shon, R. L. Anderson Jr., J. D. Mc-
tude of Spainse protests, it is concrete peace terms of both sides. Donald Albert Harriss, Frank Harris
held, have beere energetic than Thig wag lea-ed toy. The admin- Jr., Frank Adams, Clarence and Bruce
Booster Week Closes and all
Subscriptions Must Be
Turned in to Secure
Votes
anv other neu state, even the
United States.-h regard to con
traband, the nys:
"What the aish government
does not admite central empire's
interpretation nternational law
whereby they y ships of nations
istration believed the second point MeGert Edward mcker, ur. Lindner,
would furnish means whereby the en-J G. Parrish, Carlisle Izlar, Waldo
tente allies could with propriety dis- Martin, Whit Palmer, Joe Bell, Mal-
CUSS peace. ivuim luuiauis, vt J-. vjaiiagiicx, iiw
ton. Davis, etc.
If the girls will get busy and give
us the results next week, we think
which have al complained and Promoters of Gil Industry in West Ke could fix UP few columns that in
STRUCK ANOTHER STRATA
protested agaiich an interpreta
tion?' ,
The note co s with An an
nouncement thther steps are be-
Florida will Go Deep After
Petroleum
interest would pale the Star's cotnest
and the European war.
Tallahassee, Dec. 30. A second
ing taken to or dimmish in J strata of oil-bearing sand has been
future the risKpanish shipping, struck in the experimental well of the
Bonheur Oil
IN BUSINESS FOR HIMSELF
The fire insurance feature of the E.
company in waicuiiaiM. Osborne insurance agency changed
county, and the heads of the company! hands today, Mr. Laurie Izlar having
A GENERAL KE
HAS JtEEN ORDERED I declare their intention of carrying the J purchased it, and will assume charge
hole to sufficient depth to strike a real I at once.
(Ass4 rressj gusher. f I Mr. Izlar has for the past year been
Cleveld, 30. Warran G. The first strike was a strata of rich connected with the Book ShoD as
btone and W.2e, heads oi .. tne oil-bearing sand, which was driven manager and hasxmade himself very
two railroad trhoods here, to- through 30 feet. Passings this strata popular with the Ocala public. He is
day denied thrircular had been a 20-foot strata of hard rock was an able young business man. and this
issued asking renewal of au- penetrated and the second strata of (together with his amiable and pleas
luuniy vu own.c.a 0u sand was reacned. mis second img nature, is sure to mean success
result of failu agree with the strata is declared by chemists to be to him in his new venture. He will
1 1 n A r n n tlpatlAn ft 4 Via A1 l ? 1a . I . nt m
jomuouo vii '"""v" w.s, - ncn in cruae netro eum. . irmsnn in rne nnif Nhnn tnr enmp
The promoters of the company de-j weeks yet to enable that concern to
clare their willingness to drive their I fill his place, in the meantime attend
well to a depth sufficient to bring in ling to his insurance business in the
a gusher, as they are confident that I evenings, with the assistance of an
persistence will finally result in such 1 office man."
a strike.
The sale of oil leases is continuing RIDES A MAXWELL ROADSTER
, rapidly, there having been little or no
am son law.
prepared.
rcular has been
HOLIDAY HO
IE POSTOFFICE
Monday, Net's day, there will
be one complelivery by letter
carriers in thing. The stamp check in the excitement which attend
Mr. James P. Philins of the Ocala
and general d windows wiu te ej the first indications of oil and the Telephone company yesterday bough
open from 8 tcm. All mail will
he dispatched xed as usual.
' . Rogers, P. M.
! 1
BIAXWEL1A BARGAIN
I hve a 191well car with ev
ity cquipment3t class condition.
Time on part mt if desired. R.
Carroll. 12-27-6t
subsequent reports of chemists that j a pretty Maxwell roadster, a two
the sand brought up from the hole I passenger car, from the Maxwel
was rich in oil and that pumping J agency. 'Mr. Phillips bought the car
would develop a large quantity of If or his own personal use
crude petroleum. i
There are a number of splendid
Symphony Lawn stationery to be I selections among the January Victor
had only at Gerig's Drug Store. I records iast received at The Book
i
There's none better made. . tf I Shop. Call and hear them. 3t
To the members of the 3,000 club,
competing for the $2,080 and all their
friends who are interested in the re-
It of the race, we wish to emphasize
the fact that all subscriptions must
be. turned in by tonight at 9 o'clock,
if you wish to get the largest possi
ble number of votes and when you
are in a voting campaign, it pays to
jet the largest possible number of
votes for each and every subscription.
Nine o'clock tonight marks the close
of booster week. By what you do
this week, it will be known if you are
a real booster, and your chances of
winning will rise or fall according to
the number of reserve ballots you
ake home with you.
There is a wonderful list of prizes
to compete for and it will pay you to
put forth your best efforts while the
booster offer is on.
When you win the Maxwell, you
have done something to be proud of
and should be the source of a lot of
pleasure to you to know that you
have wo nout over the entire field of
contestants. Others have won valu
able prizes offered by the Star in pre
vious campaigns, but they never had
the opportunity to win such valuable
prizes as these.
For these great award you face no
greater discouragement than their
rebuffs. ,
Let no false pride obscure your vis
ion. .
The ownership of the splendid car
oi one of the other valuable award
will more than make up for whatever
temporary inconvenience you have
suffered. You- will have your concrete
reward "to have and to hold."
Monday's issue of the Star will
contain the last nomination blank and
will be your last chance to become a
member of the 3,000 club. Think a
moment before you let the last
chance to enter sup tnrough your
fingers. .
i There is a lesson to be found in the
lives of those who reached the top. It
was not luck. They worked and were
ever on the alert to grasp the oppor
tunities that were presented to them
ine trouble is that many never
think of tomorrow live only for the
small things of today. They fail to
understand the value of the opportun
ities that come their way.
If you made the start today and
found yourself the proud owner of a
Maxwell touring car at the end of
three weeks, would you feel that this
sermon was in vain ? You can do this.
you can win the car in three weeks if
you really want a car. Let us help
you plan a short campaign. Oppor
tunity knocks. .
Partial List of Club Members
F. B. Beckham, Ocala 271,620
J. F. Martin. Ocala... ..263,420
D. McCaskill, Ocala. . ..... .237,000
A. D. Fausett, Ocala 230,100
Bernard Blair, Ocala . 191,320
J. H. Brinson, ocala. .180,100
Mrs. G. W. Davis, Ocala. .154,260
Miss Chivalette Smith, Ocala. 144,000
Miss Ellen Stripling, Ocala.. 141,420
Miss Ruth Blair, Oklawaha. .141,290
Larue Hastings, Lake Kerr... 87,420
Louis J. Long, Ocala ........ 80,340
Miss'-Othelia Cassels, Bay
Lake .. .. 63,950
S. J. McCully, Berlin 47,420
T. J. Killebrew, Ocala. 38,010
Mrs Blanche Hall Thompson,
Candler 37,280
R. F. Connor, Ocala 36,480
C. G. Hamilton, Mcintosh 35,620
Wm. Littledale (Candy Kid)
Ocala . . . . 18,010
Ernest Batton, Ocala... 6,090
Mrs. J. D. Robinson, Ocala... 5,420
J. Duncan Elliott, Ocala 5,390
Lee Dean, Dunnellon 5,000
Charles Savage, Ocala ...... 5,090
W.: T. Hall, Summerfield ...... 5r000
J. H. Spearing, Ocala ... 6,190
GREAT HATH
t hasJVlore People than Germany or
Austria and Three-Fourths as
Many as America
(Associated Press)
New York, Dec. 30. One billion,
two hundred fifty-eight million, two
hundred and nine thousand dollars
worth of bonds were sold on the New
York Stock Exchange during the year
ending yesterday. This is a new re
cord. Two hundred and four million,
six hundred and seventy-eight thou
sand shares kf stock changed hands.
IMMENSE AURtFEROUS IMPORT
There was six hundred and ighty-
four million, seven hundred thousand
dollars in gold imported into" the Unit
ed States this year, making a new re
cord for the importation of gold, a
(Associated Press)
Tokio, Dec. 30. A total estimated
population of 77,289,596 in Japan,
Korea and Formosa and the Japanese
lialf of Saghalien island, is announc
ed officially.
This shows an, increase of 1,670,835
over the estimate a year ago. The in
crease per 100 inhabitants of 1.60 per
cent, the same percentage -of increase
which has prevailed for the past four
years.
The population of Korea or Chosen
eaped from 16,804,013 to 17,517,864,
an increase of 715,851 or 1.26
cent.
SMALL
suAonoii
Of Airplanes Giving Practice
Army and Citizen
Aviators
to
A RENEGADE AMERICAN
Douglas Suggests the Unconditional
Withdrawal of Pershing's
Expedition
(Associated Press)
Hempstead, N. Y., Dec. 30. United
States army officers and civilians in
fourteen airplanes left here this
per J morning for Philadelphia. They were
joined by two others later and expect
to return tomorrow.
SEVEN ARRIVED SAFE
Philadelphia, Dec. 30 Seven of the
fourteen airplanes which left Hemp
stead, N. Y.,' this morning, landed
here two hours after leaving the
starting point. The others have not
reported.
toward clarifynig the situation.
(Associated Press)
Washington, -Dec. 30. Counsellor
Polk of the state department and biKAUfcitts lis lilt, Uii
Charles A. Douglas, Carranza's attor- I Among thi strangers in the city to-
ney here, conferred this afternoon on day are Mr. S. J. Triplett, of St.
the Mexican situation. Both were I Cloud, and Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Tun-
silent after the meeting. It is under- nicliffe of New York city. They are
stood however, that Douglas suggest- on their, way to the gulf coast for a
eTthe voluntary withdrawal of the! hunting and fishing tripv
American expedition without await-J Mr. Triplett is vice president of the
ing an agreement which would go far Florida Press Association, and -has
been editor of the St. Cloud Tribune
for several years. He has disposed
of his interests at . St. Cloud and will
in a few days take over the Inverness
Chronicle. Mr. Triplett has been
prominent in Florida newspaper cir
cles for many years, and the com
munity which is so fortunate as to
have him at the head of it3 newspa
per is inded fortunate, as he is a live
wire publicity man and all-'round
booster.
Mr. Triplett expects to move his
family to the Citrus county capital in
in J a short time, and the Star will be
pleased to have them as near neigh
bors.
You are strong and well
That's pleasant.
You hove to remain so
That's natural.
Your spine may get out of line
That's possible, r
You need some adjustments
That's evident.
You want the cause removed
That's wisdom.
Better start today
That's proper.
See the Chiropractor W. Jenson
person
That's important.
Office at the Colonial Hotel
That's the place.
Delays are dangerous
That's all.
d It
ADVERTISE IN THE STAR.
Danger Signal
If, the fire bell should ring would
you run and stop it or go and help to
si It is much the same
put out the fire'
way with a cough. A cough is a dan
ger signal as much as a fire bell. You
should no more try to suppress it than
to stop a tire bell wher it is Ringing.
but should cure the disease that caus-
FORDS FOR SALE
I have two good Ford touring cars !
and one roadster for sale. Wide tread
and in good condition. Cash or time J es the coughing. This can nearly al
ravmpnts. R. R. Can-oil. Ocala. Fla. I ways be done by taking Chamberlain's
T I si i - . i ...
v,ougn rkemeoy. juany nave used it
Cough Medicine lor uuidren especially valuable for the persistent
Mrs. Hugh Cook, Scottsville, N. Y., cough that so often follows a bad cold
says: -About nve years ago wnen we lor an attack of tne grip. Mrs. Thomas
were living m uarcutt, JS. 1 doc-1 iJcechmg, Andrews. Ind writes:
tored two of my children suffering -During the winter my husbard takes
from colds with Chamberlain s Cough I cold easily and coughs and coughs.
Remedy and found it just as repre-1 Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is the
sented in every way. It promptly I best medicine for breaking up these
checked their coughing and cured I attacks and you cannot get him to
tneir colds quicker tnan anyxnmg 1 1 taice any otner. ' uotainar.ie every-
pucr nsAri " llhtmnahie vervwhprp. trhpr
1
