THE WEATHER
TL'I.SA. !. 1. Maximum 4,
miitiuium 24. Noith Hindu mid rlritr.
OKLAHOMA VimiXAST- FrhUy
anti Hiilurilny chir.
rnOSPERITY TALK
'Unit iliino Aiiviunv In 'ill Tlmraihiy
Ju-I rniHiU n liiilii more iro-)iinly
lulu Tiil-Va opuli'Mt ri'riinl ..i I'm
fn.al ' k of v pi. (Ml l now ni'lliiirf
HI fl I) Iwiin-I.
Tl VV 7 II I I S
riii YSr" !
VOL. XII, NO. 101
..oey.rULSA, OKLAHOMA, SATURDAY, DKCHMMKIi 30, liUU
10 l'AdKS
PlilCE FIVE CENTS
V1
)1
-rwmm. m i-w araw. I III a
,joi
95 O Spain Se
69c
i
NEUTRALS FAVOR
PEACE PROPOSALS
Scandinavian Countries Com
mend President Wilson in
Answering Note.
SUBMARINE ISSUE BOBS UP
Sends -.Warning to Teu
tonic Powers; U. S. Offi
cials Are Worried.
WASHINGTON. Inc. :'!i. The
three S.'m ii 1 1 mi v i ii ii nations, Norway.
Sweden Mini I lennmrk, thru Identical
notes, the Norwegian ropy n which
w.i'! h i li l c I in tin- state ili pai lin. nl
today hy Minister lliyn, hive ex
pressed their lively Interest In Frrsi
clcnt WilMin'H icpi i.'-uIh "looking to
wards I ho establishment nl n durable
pencil" and their "dot-pest h iiiiut hy"
Wil'l nil efforts to Hhiirten the war.
I ' tl !t k ." the Swiss government, which
offered to help In ntiy way "no mutter
how nioilcst," the Srnndlnai Ian conn
trlcH in. ike no direct offer of cnopcru
tii.n. Tills filet attracted particular
interest because Norway iarticiilarly
tins heen one ot the greatest sufferers
from the war among the nentralM.
The state ilt!SiTincnt made public
the Norwegian note without comment
anil in line with the policy of Hilcnce
uilopted hy President Wilson ami Stc
rct.iry Lansing, no oilier official In
formation conccrniin: peace moves was
forthcoming during the day.
' I'o Hear I loin l.nlins.
Most of the South American na
tions, It was Indirit mI today, will send
notes it ui rd I n if thu presldenfs note
on ttio official tindrrstntiiling that It
whs addressed to them largely for
their own information and not to
Holicitation. ilollaud. whose attitiido
hn heen the I'uhjevt of much specu
lation, also was xa.d to be unlikely
to take uny action owing to the '(.cl
ing there that It might upper r un
nei.tr.il to one side or the oth-r and
mil.t.ito ugninst the location of the
eventual peace confeience In that
country. Hcy.uid the fact that the
Spanish cabinet has not yet decided
on Spain's action, no tnrther informa
tlon had come to the Spunisli embassy
today.
Turkey's Same.
Ah to tho belligerent Tin key's re.
ply to the president's note, practically
loenlical with those ot (iermany and
Austria, was made puhllc hy the state
department today and Uulgu'ria's is cx
peced tomorrow.
Dispatches from London that the
allied reply .to tho Herman proposals
was ready anil prohnhly would tie Hent
hy Wednesday followed shortly hy
their reply to the presidents' note were
read with Interest here, hut drew no
comment.
Allies Are Puzzled.
Kntcnte diplomats still profess to
lie profoundly puzzled about the fun
damental purpose of the president's
note and undecided whether it was
designed primarily to promote peace
or for America's own guidance. They
expect, however, that their goiern
nicnts' reply will be short and appre
ciative. The real impossibility of
peace from their viewpoint, they my,
will he aileiiiat"ly pointed out In their
lengthy reply to the central powers,
where they can speak directly and to
the point without fear of woundiiiK
a friendly neutral.
Submarine Situation Acute.
The dispatch hy Spain of a strong
protest to I iermany against submarine
activities apparently overshadowed In
terest u III o n K officials here in the
progress of the peace negotiations.
The Spanish ambassador saw Secre
tary l-nnslng recently and the secre
tary Is understood to have outlined
fully the attitude of the I'nitcd States.
No Mccret in being made of the fact
that the German submarine activities
furnish thu cause of real nnlxety to
American government officials re
ferred to In the president's note to
the belligerents.
The submarine issue Is being kepi
in the background for the present, hut
evidence indicating that (iermany
probably has violated pledges given
the I'nlled States Is believed to have
been collected at the suite depart
ment. The usual Friday cabinet meeting
was cancelled today because of the
president's desire for as much rest
ns possible during t lie holidays and
because no important iiucstions wcru
In shape for action. s
PROSECUTIONS MAY
FOLLOW FOOD PROBE
District Attorney in Charge As
' Herts Business Men "Justly
Under Suspicion."
NKtt'YOUK, Pec. 29. After a con
ference here today of federal district
' ttttcrneys from Maine to West Vir
ginia who uro invcstlgntinpr the high
cost of living, a statement was Issued
hy George V. Anderson, I'nitcd Stales
' district nttorney at lioston. In charne'
i of the Rovornmrnt's inquiry Into food
and fuel prices, declaring that "liiisi
ness n. en who held or detain cars un
necessarily and unfairly are under
, ' Just suspicion."
"If It be found," tho statement said,
1 "Unit Fuch detention Is a part of a
combination to create scarcity, en-
linnce prices and sharo In profits, we
do "not believe that Juries will look
with lenient eyes on such action dur
ing these times."
Mi. Anderson ndiled "(hero Is evi
dence that some of the peak-high
pric? In various parts of the country
"I do not now Indicate where ure
due tr. unlawful acts.
"The economic hs.se of a Inrce part
oi" the bltth prices Is beyond the con
trol of tho department of Justice nnti
local nuthorlties, housekeepers nso
tlatlons and women's clubs have each
their cl ut v to perform. Kconomv. effi
ciency and the substitution of cheaper
foods for the more expensive are de
ulrtble for all except the mure
WMlthv."
Oil Supply in I'nitvd
States Will Last Just
MS Years Longer, Sais
UlirACii, lice 2!i. A note of i
alarm a. to the gasoline of the I
coiin'rv was soiit'dcd at the con- I
Ventlon of the Society of Au'lclll- I
tin a I Kuuimi rs here- today bv
Hr. "lscur K. Ilransky of the I
Standard 1 il company.
The alarm was lell when he I
I i l i in r k i i I that prodiietion a (
not keciiiii; pare with consume- I
tion inil that cvliaus: imi id the I
supply was ill.iwlln; ileal. The
lelslop h.is coiisidi fa lily re-
lie', ell, hoAeer. when It ivascid-
ciliated thai the estimated re- I
maluinu supp'v of crude oil. v s. t
Ible and invisible. 7 .:', IPHI.- t
tun) barrels In all. Mould last I
e irs oui r at the I I H late of
consumpi ion ot ,'i."., aim, nun b ir-
lets. t
lioetor Ilransky said next venr
there world be thiee mileii I
initomolilles in operation in the
i'nitid States or T.'.ii. inn) more
than this veal'. He estimated t
that eastern o'l fields are 71 per t
cent exhausted; Mid-t'otitim nt 1
fields, all per cent; Texas fie d, ii
per cut and the California fields, t
'i tier cetu exhausted. I
!
U. S TROOPS ARE
LIKELY TO REMAIN
No Withdrawal While North
ern Mexico Is in Present
Unsettled State.
CONFERENCES TO CONTINUE
Carranza Suggests Commission
Ueliberate Along Fresh
Channels.
WASHINGTON. Tiec. ;. Contin
iiilion of the conferences of the Mex-icaii-Aincricuii
oint commission tli-
ut reear.J to the uuesilon of with
drawing Anie.liiaii troops from Mexico
's pfijn sed by Geni tal Carranzu in
his niess;iKe refusmir to ratify tho At
lantic City protocol. Coupled with
this siiKKestlon, however. Is a new ap
peal for recall of the I'ershiiiK expe
dition mid a declaration that such ac
tion by Ihe I'nlteil States would pel
mil adjustment of all reinaininn ques
tions "within a week."
Nothing to lise.
There were Imiii-ations tonlirlit that
the American members of Om com
nd.ion miuht be distioserl to comply
wi'.'i the reiinest for further confer
ences on the (.'round Hint the I'nitcd
S.ales h id nothitiK to lose bv doliiK so.
It was oflirhtllv stated that llollinu
yel had oreurrc4 t- alter the .i.dicy
cf the adnilnistriition toward .M xico.
and it Is een -ralh umlerslood that so
loPir ns northern Mexico Is in its pres
ent utiM'ttled Hate I'i rshiim's men w ill
s' iv v hi re they are.
A enpv d' Ihe Carran.a coinmunica
ttor. nboni which there was less
secrecy today, was sent to President
Wilson. Secretary Lane comnitinicat -ed
with I ir. J. It. Mult and .lud;c
George Grav, the other mcmbe's o"
the Americai' c umnission and th"
I'tinoiiuceil that tltev woiibl meet here
Tuesday to determine whether further
( opfereiices nhall hi held to iliscu..M
the vatious iiuestions at issue otlier
than the withdrawal of American
troops or whether the attitude of
Carranza has made it Impossible foi
Ihe Joint commission to continue itr.
work.
Almiif l'reli (1i iiineN.
Carranza poinis out In his rr ply that
there was nothlnu in the orr-'spond-epic
that led to th creatii.t of the
commission nor In the rcden'hls and
liiKtruetions de'lvcred to Its nietubers
that would preclude consid-tallon of
the many other subjects which the
l omniiss'on made in ddetital to those
n i: reed upon in the protocol. In effect
l,e siiKucsts that the protocol In- .il I
nsule for the prcrent and the work of
the ccmmision he d rcctcd 'ilon
fresh cbanirds
A It ho the conditions Imposed for
withdrawal of the troon were tod to
his likinu. he nttfinptc I In make t
clear that hli chief objection to ratify,
inc the document was not based upon
the i ( tidltio is, hut o!i th fact that he
could not conscientiously sicn nny
thliiK which would place' him In the
positb n of hailm; apc.ired to sanc
tion even for n brief time the. pn sencp
in Mexico of forelKIl troops.
KILL PESTS WITH GAS FUMES
Moods County Farmer lsoovcr- New
lAlcrmliiallon Method.
Sperisl tit The Worlil.
OKLAHOMA CITY. Tec. 29 A new
way to exterminate prairie dons has
been tiled by K. K Kleffer. tl Woods
county farmer, and he believes It will
work all riKht. Mr. Kleffer, as well
as many of his nelnhbor, havo been
bothered Willi pratlic dogs, ns has
ev ! y Oklahoma, farmer who has tried
It In the uplands or on the rolllni;
pra'rle. Mr. Kleffer took his auto
n. o Idle nnd turned tho exhnust Into
every hole he could find and then
covered dirt over the holes. Ho
watched tho holes for several days and
found only one that hud been iIuk
thronch. The hiirninir fumes from
the i; is, he believes, killed the dows,
nn he has not seen nny since. Farm
ers In his nelichhorhood are planning
on trylntt the experiment.
UTAH BOMB WASHARMLESS
Plotters Against Governor Ift In
grcdiiMit nut of Missive.
SALT I.AKK CITY. Icc. 29. The
bomb placed In front of Governor
William Sprys resblenco Christinas
day was prurtlcally hnrmless, accord
ing to S. II. Moore, superintendent of
the lincilius Powder company, nnd Its
chief chemist. KXHiiilnation disclosed
the fact that there was hut a small
quantity of dynumtto In It nnd thnt
a neressary Ingredient wus entirely
missing.
The reward for Information lending
to the nrrest of tho persons who
placed the bomb hn now reached
$11,000. Most of this has been con
tributed by private Individuals whose
t nines are withheld
! rtf tR PROBE IS
SUDDENLY ENDED
Manufacturers Flatly Refuse
to Piscuss Price Increases;.
Closes Session.
PUBLISHERS FIX THE BLAME
Pec I a re Jobbers Try to T'du
Advantage of Shortage IV
ports to (iet Raises.
WASHINGTON, I lee. :'!i. Ilearirc
reopened hi re today by the fe lei.il
trade con.missii n m its ncwspi I M
paper im e.-tiKation came to a mi. Men
end when paper maiiiifacl in ers re
fused to discuss the reasoiia Ideile' : of
newsprint paper prices- I:. .Hi i,ul.
Ihheiv and lubbers bad been heard.
The manufacturers declared the
had not had twin to study tables pre
pared b,- ihe comiiiisMun's Invest ina-lor-,
puipoitlin; to show Iiukc profits.
Meiiilicrs oi the trade couimlssloii mi
ni.unccd that despite in iippaient un
willtntft.ess by Ihe nianufactiii ers to
keen In the ln estimation, the com
lldsslon's ri . oil would be issue, I piob
ubly in about ten days, and that such
recommcin'.i tions to congress won i'
be made as were Hint liei'essiry. Al
tl.e same time It was said tile. com
mission would bu in position pronubly
ly tomorrow nlubt to announce
whether lis cout.ideratlou of a paper
distribution plan showed an acl.nl
paper shortage and a need for distri
bution under supmislon of the com
mission. To Score Manufacturers.
It was strotiulv intimated ilmitm the
day tiial facts uncovered by the com
mission would be tin lied over to Ihe
department of (ustice. It was an
I'.ounceil that if tho commission fallcl
to relieve conditions, some other Ko -ernmcntal
money inluht he able l"
help. The report to cotmress. :t Is un
derstood, will score manufacturers f o
raisinu prices to the extent of fortius'
many .mall publishers out of bus!
ness.
Manufacturers proposed the distri
bution t'an ut a hearing two weeks
i'Ko. Today's beariim was a resuni'
Hon of that proceeding. Interrupted to
study the plan and uive the manufac
turers lime to ico over the conitnis
rmn's cost of production figures,
lllamc Is Placed.
Publishers teMifyitm today blamed
both manufacturers and Jobbers for
PrcwilliiiK conditions in the newsi itper
wot Id. It was declared that (..blurs
had taken advantage of the last Iwi
eks to try to frlnhtcn puldisheM
Into pnln hUh prices by (lainuiK
r shortai(e existed which would pre
sent many puhllshers filllnn their
reeds during the coinini; year. More
trstimony was brought out also coii
cerni'ii; a'leued refusals to sell to pub
lishers end reuai'dinu d'ffere:it prices
nuotcd bv the same inaniifactiirrs. II
v as i harcf l that nn effort was ooln'
made t i oiscouraue buviric associa
tions thru which publishers hope t"
purchase their paper more cheaply.
Publishers, it was said diiriiiK the
day, are oinn ulna. I rapidly Willi
their plans for constructuii; paper
ii in k i ii i; plants of their own. Its the
middle of I'.ilS. said A. .1. Mclntyrc.
paper expert of the Newspaper Pub
lishers ii -m iciation, the publishers will
he virtually independent of the papcr
inakcrs. (.lass (.lies Statement.
A statement clvi n out tonU'lit by
Frank P. Glass, chairman of the ex
ecutive committee of the committee
on paper of the American Newspaper
Publishers association, said in part:
"Tins investigation has been koIiik
on for over five months, haviim been
Initialed by a nipiest of the News
Pi hit Manufacturers association for
such an investigation, the manufac
turers claiming that an Investigation
would show that they had been con
duetiiiL' their business in the proper
way. The federal trade comnihistoii
has apparently pursued the investiga
tion inure seriously and has gone fur
thi r than the manufacturers nnPci
pated when they made this mtui'st.
Dclaj: No lt Ill-Tit.
"The practical result is precisely
that which 1 predicted in my state
ment to the commission on liecember
12. There has been a delay of 1" days
and ucthitm becnltcial to the sufler
itig newsiapers has followed so far.
In the meantime tunny contiacts for
tuntuiKC for I 111 7 have been closed at
the prevalent hii:h prices resulting
from the fright of publishers over the
belief that a dangerous paper famine
exists and this liotwtihstanding the
trade coiiMiilsslon earnestly reiiuested
the manufacturers to suspend making
contracts until the hearings weie
finished." '
RECORD CHRISTMAS MAIL
.More than IL'.'i.llllll.lltlll Packages lie
llvcicil Dining the Itiish.
WASHINGTON, I ice. In spite
of weather conditions that tied up
trnlns and crippled local deliveries
nrriinuf mints In hundreds of cities,
ripotts to the post office department
Indicates that '.HI per cent of this
year's rfcortl-hrenklng budget of
Christmns mall ami including 125,
000. oat) parcels nnd many millions of
i holiday letters and curds was tlcliv
letctl on or before Christmas day.
Postage receipts for the month are
experted to reach 1 1 8.0(1(1, (MP) us
against $15,000.0(10 last yeur.
MORGANS BANK MORE GOLD
F.iKht Million Dollars of Ithh Metal
Ill-ought III Thru Ciinnihl.
NEW YORK. Iee. 29. An addi
tional $S, 000, ooo In .gold brought
to thlB country by way of Caoadn has
heen deposited nt the Philadelphia
mint to the "account of J. V. Mot gun
& Co., it wns nnnounced horo today.
HE PITCHED THE STOVE OUT
Mr. Farley Wuh Ills Own Fireman
ami a Vcry Successful One.
WICHITA, Kan.. Dec. 29. W. S
Fnrley, n lather, saved his home at
1 F 03 Falrmount avenue from flte
damage by throwing a gasoline stove
out of doors when It exploded from
an unknown reason.
IllDM'KST CAY WITH
COROXATiOX S I'll: IT
Sol Gets Hi gut Saluld.n: llaipy
Ciods I ill streets;. War
Is I oigollcii,
II1 I 'API'.ST 1 1. ... :'M ( , ii London
I lee. I - The I II I. III. I I HI f.".l, Hies
.He In full suing heic. under thu
lligltest of winter hKle-. alll Illlla-
I'csl f..t the time sc. in . to Ii.im for
gotten the war A lednl i rinn.i
U1.H"S II, I II streets im .Mill Hags and
blllltllig. Iliain id Hie peopb IU Ho'
sph ll. II. I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 call. 'I'll,, pilii.ipal
I h. 'relates ale . i .imI. .I w ii Ii auloiiio
bllis, state , ai l i n:es, liiounle.l ; nil nil.
mounted trcps eMai ls in lull cress
and n.il.ii in u.ag ' i . si ,,.
Nolwii Ii-la ion uc lb" run yct.-rd n ,
I II llliplei e.lel led "l.,.l 'lllle-M'd
I he !' ill i i ll i lit ol Kill ; t'hal'es Vis
dots i.iu.c hem all .mi's tS nu
tty The I Hi in .1 1 a I diploma wis handed
to the kite: I 1 ovenlm; L a depot i
I I 1 1 fio. ii I. .11 hoioes of pal ll.ll'.etll
To.bn tl.e 1,1m. reliiiiic.l Ihe diploma
to p. 1 1 II anient Willi his :.p;na I ure in. I
parliame nt 'i.lniliiisiere I the oalh.
New elow n guardians Were selecled
by the km'! It was in jn.pressiw
i eremony. The cor-nciti ui 'oiciuuniis
will begin at 7 nVloi I, S iliinlay mioi ii
I it if.
ALLIED NOTE READY
FOR GERMANS NOW
Will l'.n Disn.'itftiiwt K-ii-K- Ni.vr!
Week; Answer Much More
Ilulky Than Proposal.
LoNI'O.N, I ice. As a result of
the conferences which have been 111
progress for several days, the entente
icply to the German note is now com
pleted. It could to forward today or
tomorrow except for (he necessary
lorinallty of 1 1 iiiisinitt Itig It to all the
allies hi'lore final delivery. This
means that the delivery will i.e made
eaily in or the ml. I. lie of next week,
perhaps on Weilnesd.-i .
The delivery will be mad" at Paris,
utter which the communication will
be forwarded to Germany thru
American channels.
Itcply t ry li-nglhy.
The reply Is a very long document,
much longer than the German note.
This point has been one of the luat
tcis of discussion during the con
Icienccs. the objection haling been
raised that It is too long and should
lie short ami sharp. Hut there were
mi many points lor elucidation ami
such a complete difference uf concep
tion of the objects anil purposes tor
whicii the two sides went to war that
it wns found desirable to ixtctid thu
note to considerable. Icimth.
The presence here of Alexandre
Hlbot, the French finance minister,
permitted the l-'rcnch ministry to he
represented .lining the conference.
May Satisfy .iiu-rlca.
I'tiusual optimism is shown here as
n result of the final form which thi
ll ply has taken, which is believed to I
be such that it will meet with satislac- j
In. n at Washington.
The rt ply to the American note will
follow witiiin a lew days alter the
di In cry ol Ihe reply to Germany. I
LIBELS WASHINGTON; JAILED
I 'our Months In I'rUon snvs Supreme
( nun of W ashington.
OI.YMPIA. Wash.. 1 ec. 2"t. Ai n
Plieler tif George Witshi ivton's mem
ory, Pail Haffer of Ticom.-i. musl
s.'Tic four months In the county Jail,
the Washington supreme court today
iipholdiiiK tlu conviction of II affer on
a criminal III W chcrge. Haffer pub
lished 'in article accusing the firs'
president of the t'nited States of
ill imkerness and other Irregularities. 1
The court held thnr publication of,
itllih-s tending to hold the memory'
of deceased tier-tons no to ridicule and '
contempt constituted libel nnd that it
is not necessary to show 'hat relative!
and friends were injured bv the at
tacks CREEKMORE DENIED FREEDOM
lVdi-ml .luiluc IScfiises to Grunt
"Kina" Habeas Ctupiis Yr.
Si.-. inl 1. 1 The Wnr'.l.
KANSAS CITY. 1 Mr, -'9 Willi un
J. Cr -ekinore, a brcwt-i of .lop'in. M".,
nnd known as "king of boot h- ;i;.-i's In
Oklahoma," was denied a wtil of
haoeas corpus in federal court here
today by Judge Arlu S 'nn 'n keii-
hiiru-h. f'lcekiiiore hi. I, I n ni'ost-
ed for nllei'ed attempted luiherv "f a
governmt til official whom Ihe goveip
laent charges wus olf.-rtl l0 bv
Creekniore if the offlt lal would aibnv
certain shipments of lionor Into'iikl i
htnnii and stoii hlimints of competi
tors.
Allies to Demand German Navy and
German Colonies in Peace Terms,
According to Spectator Forecast
LONDON, nee. J? Tho Spectator
devolex the greater putt of tomorrow's
Issue to unsweling President Wilson's
question us to what are thu peace
terms of the entente illlcs. Hrlefly
summarized, the principal demands f
the entente ns outlined by tin; t-pec-tuter
will bo:
'Tho peace ternn nro to start from
the slitlu tpio before the war. thus
Including the evacuation of the whole
of tiuithtrn Krunce, Helgium ami Lux.
(tnherg, untl of nil lands taken from
St-rl la, ' lluniii'ilu, Kussl.i and .Monte
ncpro. "Alsace-Lorraine Is to he restored
Li France The Ikinlsh portion of
St hleswIg-Holsteln Is to go to Ieu
I'UHk and Piseii, polish Prussia nnd
Auhtrian Poland nre to be p.dded to
the new sub kiiigdom of polard which
the Cjiur had pledged to create.
'The Slavs of Hojnla, Merttegovl'ila,
rmlmatla, Croatia, etc., nre to he cre
ated Into a new klngjom.
"Hi'hemlu to lie un independent
tilnte.
"The Rumanian section of Trnnsyl
vnnln to lie iiiblcil to Ituminia.
"The whole Austrian Vy.-tl. pins
Trlcale, Isli U und lliu oluir purliotiN of
LEE AGAIN HINTS
AT GREAT STRIKE
Railroad Situation "Put Up to
lHO.ooo I'.rotherhood Mem
bers" bv Heads.
RIGID SILENCE IS OBSERVED
) ii'iii s p use to .say in
Strike Is Likely: (live
Cryptic Statement.
I
I N I'. .V Yt 'UK. I Sue. i.-il cir
'cul.is pultinc 1 1 1 to C:e lioi. I
I'll II. I' CIS teplillMl'llltV f. I 'lilt-
tievt .'tip to be taken h (he railroad
la i t hei lioods in i heir eolit roi i rM with
'the lallloads over the a . pi l ca I ion and
i Intel prcluti. .11 of the A.lam-ioll act
were sept broadcast l. teieiapli ii.'ter
II loniiifiicc Ol I III- III. II l.l l.ll.ri inn...
chiefs here today.
Aiinotiiii'ciiictit of the neiioii taken
was mule by William G. Lit', piesi
i. I I cf the ill ol hi i hood ol Kailwai
Tialnmi n pi lor to his departure lor
the vest. lie was accompanied bv
the other brolh'ih I leaders, wlve
celll'el ell.'C Willi the lallway Ilia n a r.el s
l esterda.l I'ei.llltcil ill a dis.ml eeiiielil.
I! ii In i in Ho- day the four chiefs
i.'-cii-il a- s, new hat eripln- statement
o t r their slunatui i-s deelai no; that
III" allllu.le ol the lallloads thriat
encd to wipe out the benefits that
should at ci ale to the men li oni the
Kwai:e of the A da oisoii ail and as-s.-iiing
that for that icason "tin- en
tire situation Is to be placed bcl'ole
Ihe membership."
May He riled I'lin al.
The chiefs refused to sal llllellier
the action was a n ihil lineal ol an
otlnr strike lote : uch as broiiubt
alii-ut Hie i-i i 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 ,lay b cislaliou.
The statement follows:
"While meeliiiv with President Wil
son last August at Ins insistence our
cioi'uultcc waived their rcpicst tor
time and a half lor ..v. i lime, w hich
wan fully ail it -1 ct nl of their oiic.iii.il
ib-ii-aml and at the siicki st ion of thu
pre: ttlt-nt ru'i'epted Ills pt liposltloll
which was:
" ' Com essioii of the t ighl hour tl.tV
" 'Post pol'llll ut of the oilier demand
I'S to the pay nei.i for oiertnnc am'
the coiinter-siiL'ge d ion of the railway
in:i.ai;ers, until i xpetlenec a. In. illy
tlls"loyes the cotiM .pienees of the
eight-hour d-iy
"'In lln- meanliuie the const it u ion
ly a uthoi Hy of the coiigi-.-ss of a coin,
inline or body t.f men appointed by
Hit- president to ooserve, investigate
and lepori uoon t nest- t on .'ssions
w it Ii on t n-eomiiiendiition.
"'Then sin h lotion upon the fact-t
as the parlies of the pr-sent font ro
yt tsy nny think best.'
More Litigation.
"Our men In ilevctl In so tloing they
lav at t nee. hut Ihe en o-tmeiit of Hie
Adam tin ei'l.t-hour law. -ffictve
.l.in..-iry I. 1: IT. made II I io'SS'IV
for tl i m to wait patiently until thai
liii.c, to fin I liter tha' the railroad
companies in-ntiii'-d in lini- iion pi o
ceedii gs ai'.ilnst tin- vol ernini nt's en.
lor eu-ent of the "ight hour law and
at this time the entire mailer Is In
liligalloii. such lili-ili'.n maKing it
impossible for the in" i.il t oiniiiit lee
n oil ted l y the presid.-nt as pro-
lidtd foi in the law In ptoc I with
their iniestlg- nor as i f I innary I
ami the probal MPv of ad llliena I lill
raiion In nig eoiiiiceiict I l.y Hie rail-
l-IM'ls I'lrll til l th" law Is ileel ired
cotistit oi ional bv the supreme court,
will seii.iush- a f feel such i'lvestiga-llo-i,
in fae'. can and lik-dy will delay
Ihe invt siigatli.n iint'l the coiomlssioi'
t an t tit make its ln est'galion as the
law i oiilemi-lates iber liy defeating
tin inl.nl of Ihe law nr.! at the same
IjlOe postluille the h"MI'fllS .H'ol'lised
by the law wl i' li will nmiue--lloiialilv
meet with gem "al dis-at-sl.o tioil
among the membership of the rii'road
nrraMat ions.
The el. Ill', siluatlotl Is to If place I
Jefnie the liiemherslilp In spt ci il cir
ciiltr." Iliti l.rt I llioll liefn-cil.
The biotherhoi d chiefs declini d
positively to Interpret their M it.-ment
ll. Lee wasa-kid loevplain vvheUie
the italenienl that a tew strike
Vile might he il'i'el'i d
"You may make voiir own int'r
t it tatloti." was the replv.
"Wh . interpn tallon Is the public
to In ike?" he Was as:ed.
"I et Hie public make Its own In
tel pretat ion. W e don't care w hal
c-a. elusions they draw."
Warren S Stone, mand chief of t he
Iriithel'llooil of Locomi live Km: I reel",
.ii.l that the i lieiilar was -,-ni o.-t ": i
-line the sit Hat it'll bef, re He ineiiihe.' -who
are always eon -u ted In fun- ,in
lotion is tal-eit." The circular e n
taind no recoienieuiiation. he said.
I. nt nn outline of Hie enllr i-e.
ti.'tiia which are Italian In Mood or
I feeling, to he added lo Italy.
! "Turkey to y't-ld Constant Inooie and
t he sttai'.s to Russia.
'The A rnienltiis to Ic put under
I Russian tutelage
"The Arabs to be free I, while Syrhi.
i Asia minor and .Mesopotamia arc to
lie' tinder external protection gu truii
I teeing tranipillity.
'Tin' Germ. in colonies lo remain In
! Hit! hands of the entente. Mcteoier, a
' money Indemnity for the ruin Ger
many has done l.i Inlglum, Fiance,
Si i blu Muiilcncgro etc
"As rei'.-irdlng shipping, Germany to j
I make, reparation in mini for nil ships
cf commerce tle.strovetl ton foi ton,
nc 1 1ml chipplm to lie rei ho i-d only
ufttr nil the thunands uf the nlllos
have been satisfied
"Tho German navy to he hnnded
over and distributed uniting entente
toil Ions.
"As n guarantee against future war,
the nllles uro to Insist upon ttu demo-
crutlzntlon of tho German Kovi-rn-liu
nt.
"The Kiel nnal to ho neutralized
i.niHr un lnternntlr.mil non-Germnn
commission, Including the entente
count ihs, tl't t'nited titnles and other
euiiala"
rwTffSiTvl
----4
'
,1. A ol.lPllAvr.
This Is I he man bo lil-.-U w ill l.t
callci! on I.. i .Mavi'i Siminon:. and the
clly ct m in i ss 1 oil i ' r to I. ke chalge of
Ihe point- ami Ine dip al tmelils, left
vv ilh. ui' a h" id lo I In- . -i : m i I nu ol
A I. l-'unk vcieidav. lohn A i 'll
pliant made a i... unl when In -ervt-.l
en) in in. n ra'ii. nv eeiore, alio .
Ill: snpiole.s lb'. in- lie's lipl.tl to
the Job of rt in c.. n villi; Ihe police tie.,
0. 11 i mi nt. w Inch hi oi.;- niv will I ic
of t be I l -I ta-d.s to he la l,.-n Up.
I III HI slt.N l l ol'
t OMMIsMOM Mi,
T-i the i lose personal triemls of A.
L. Ill K his t est g ua I Ion a t police r..n.
missloncr '.s no Mirpii.-e. II Is rather
luote or a surprise that he has stuck
it out as loi.g as he has A man of Mr.
I'uuk's business interests farm I he
tvpocteii to fool around v etv long with
Ho ii ksomc di-f ills and auiioviio: ex
1 .1 I iellt , s "olista'ltll coming 1 1 1 In the
position of police I o II t m i usi o lie r. Mi'
l as done wei: lo have stayed with tin
position as loin: as lie has anil (he
work he has done .nil have its mark
on the inn i in n ii H v foi some Hue to
conic. The things that have happened
in i oiiiiei I ion wilb the poll lepart-
iiieiil, under Mr. I'm It's administra
tion, with which 'Ihe World has not
been at cord, ami there has been vcr
little thai II has not been ill ii' cor I
Willi, was not of his tloing. The Iron
Ide is that it is mighty hard to fln-l
men for police posliioiis who k nw
how to exercise the authority placed
In their hands without abusing It. And
then, the public Is prone always t i ex
pett t..o much, ami is ever ipiulv to
pass hasty .iuilu ueiil rsther than net
in iift'iud with common sense and ma
son. Al l-'unk has heen faithful to his
iriist in I'.i'tv parllt u'ar. lie is no
honest, hniiarc man, who may tins IhL
hale bad too idealistic I' -lolioli and
t v.t i.led u more thorn ex -cutleli i f his
idea-t H'mI tiolicics than Is iiossllde. The
ciiticisiii which lies against t"'e t.olic
tlep.nl nii-nt of Tulsa for inefficiency
or fai'uiu al iivni paMo'i of autholili' Is
not chaiueal.le It. Al I'link, but can be
laid al the door of other-. Never he
fore ua-i Ihe t il l of Tills I been freer
from gamhlini' iiml bootlegging than It
has been since Ihe present aduiinl .tru
th n went Inn. power, but the trouble
has bein that the police department
has tint slopped with hrcakini; u"
gainL'im; md the opcii-.loint, hut the
ill. sadc has heen pursue. I to the nth
degree and to Ihe cxclurion of other
duties devolving upon Ihe pi, lice tle
lartincnt. The truth of the mailer Is
that neither the present police iudg"
l ot- the chief of police are OVellv Well
iiiiallfieil for the positions thei occu
py and limit men with more .liiilgmeii'
and ill. ii el ion are placed In those po
sitions, any man who siiecccds .Mr.
1'i.i.k will be confronted wi'ii much
lb- saint- troiiblo he has had. t ipen
rambling will never he tolerated In
Tulsa again, and peilher will the ope i
joint, bin 1 tines md in ran that
Hit re will not be, as The World s' iled
1. ef.ilt the last city election, sonic p'l
vatc pol.t-r parties occasioua IK amour
the sp.iitilv In. :in "I portion of I hi
t 1 1 h'.eti s 1 1 1 1 1 of Tulsa, or that the mar.
who wants a bottle of Honor for hh
own tl. -e III IV not he able to get It.
The evi rcl.se of jusi modicum of t on,
in. in sense and lea-oil on these mat
I. -rM h all Hint is et ted bv reason
able and fat--minded people. Tin'
trouble Is that w I' ll the fanatics o'l
one side .-mi! the extremists on the
opposite shh- any mitn who wants to
Co the fair thing Is const. mtlv an
tioved and bai rassed from both
etl.irter.".
increasedTee ncTbarrier
High Filing ('hinge Dosn't Keep
Cases Out id' Supreme (mill.
Spa-eisl pi 'Hie Wl.rlll.
OKLAHOMA CITY. I ice. -!'. When
tho b'l-islature passed the law In 1 !M "i
changing the filing fee for cases In
the supremo coin t from $ I ." to $ta. it
was- uigued Unit this would prevent
many cases from being brought to the
court. The new law went Into effect
on M-iieh l lMlfi, and since that time
l.tSI casts have heen filed up to the
pi'csen timt'. This is 1 (nj more cases
for th same length of time the year
before, when the fee was onlv $ I ii.
Then- has been some agltalioii to have
the cotnlnu legislature change the let
to $.'fi, and probably tax some cost to
the litigant who Inter wants a relieaf
i ii is.- In !i case.
Wohes Kill Stock.
Sprrinl to Tim World
OKLAOMA CITY, Dee. '111. Many
hogs, calves ami sheep uro being
killed by wolves in Kingfisher county
this winter, nt-cording to ndvlccs from
farmers In that county. Some farm
ers uro helping each other In guarding
thiif live stock at night. W'nli hunt
ing pnrtles nre the tjrtler of the da
und a number of thu animals have
boil) killed.
.OLIPHANT LIKELY
!
TO SUCCEED FUNK
Foriiici' Official Almost Cer
tain t Mead Politf and
Kire Departments.
POLICE SHAKE-UP LOOMING
Chief Lucas Avers lie Won't
llcsi'Kii ; Townsctid ami
Others Slated to Co.
That John A. t ibphaul vv ill be ap
p. liilid i oliiinosioiier of fiia, ,mtl p,,.
lice to sill t ee.l .. , I 'link. VI 111) re
signed V I s t e I 1 1 .' I V , Was tile lepolt
I inanalllii: f I . . 1 1 1 a It-liable stuilce last
nighl.
Mr Clink's rcsigiialloii cam,- as a
si. t prise to the public, altho it was
ll"l entirely u ne peel id at I be citv
ball, where it had lain kiiiwn for
so nine that b,. was dissat isf e.l
with the manner In whlcb bp, p ,h. i s
weie being reccivtil. .Mr. Funk has
extensive business interests of Ins own
and that also was a factor that entered
into Ins resignation.
.lohn A t ilipbaiit, who is (hot to be
(he choice of the niavor und commis
sioners as a success to Funk. Is an ex
perienced man. He Is an old resident
of Tulsa nnd has always been pioiiil
l ent in church win k, being u pillar In
the First llaptlst church.
Ilclil Position lb fore.
He sen ed as lire and pollen ciun
n. P.. sinner dm lug the luilipin I isan a.l
ll I Ii 1st i .1 1 1, ii In ailed by John O.
.Mitchell and made one of the best
ollielals Tulsa ever had. He organ
ized a 1 1 if t ri io ill I ii n police tie pa 1 1 m'-nt
and pi iced ll on u high plane. Inning
his tenure of olllce .Mr. oliphnnt sue
i ceiled In placing the police depart
ment on n paying basis without hoot
legging or gambling running wide
open. He was never subjected lo se
rious criticism and was never inves
tigated hy a grand Jury.
Mr. oliphnnt was ilefeateil for the
I oiniiuitlon for commissioner In the
last city primary, but tieccpteil defeat
gracefully ami was one of the ardent
supporters of Ihe liepiihllcan ticekt In
the general election.
.Mr. 11 1 tin ii t Is n heavy property
owner here anil for many years was
actively engaged In the banking und
trust company business. His business
affairs are in such iduipe now as not
to '1111-1 lere with Ids puhllc work
should he be made commissioner of
fire and police, anil he will undoubted
ly devote all of his time to tho office.
Mayor .Simmons Is known to bo
friendly to Mr. oliphnnt. Commis
sioners Walker, Voiiiikinan und Krlnk
arc nlso said to favor him for tin)
place.
Whether or not Mr. oliphant had
been approached on the subject or
whether he would accept Ihe office If
offered to him could not be nscer
l iimd list night. The matter prob
ably will be dispose, of at next Tues
day's meeting of the city commission.
Friends of 11. c. T.ucll, prominent
Y. M. C. A. ami Civic league official,
wen- boosting lulu for the office last
niclil. Ti n ell Is an oil man and has
alw ays h. en prominent In reform
movements bcrc. He Is suppostd to
be even none radical than Mr. Funk
along certain lines.
May Itcorgunlc Police.
That the appointment of a new
eoiiiii'Ksiiiner will mean n general re
in gain.atmii of the police department
gin s n il bout saying. Chief Ktl Lucas,
w In ti asked point blank last night If
he intended to resign, gave, an ml verse
ami emphatic answer. When told
licit theie was talk to this el feet on
the s-rects he chiiracterl.cil it as "pure
nonsense."
II. II. Townseud, bead of the
"purity siiiad," Is also slaled to go,
it is said.
Owing lo the fact that the munici
pal nt had lii-t-n nholisbeil by a tle-
el.-i.in of Hit- ciiminal court of ap
pciTs. it Is thought that Judge C. o.
I'tvitt will voluntarily resign, rather
than tliaw -i salary from the city with
out rendering any sen l. t-.
Valor Simmons Is temporary head
of tin pullet: department
fight orrrTESBiT IS
BEARING FRUIT NOW
Opponents Declare "Members,
Not (Jovernor Williams"
Will Name Speaker.
spwinl n. Tin- World
oKLAHii.m t-pi'V. I L'!l
-'fill It-man's ngreetient' unit ni: call,
delates lor sp aki r of th- In. ice this
evening will probably icwal th, iiin
m r some time before Tuesday morn
ing. hen a final caucus will be held
ami at which time it is agreed that
only one name will be prcscnn.l to
the caucus. All candidates got to
gether late today and agreed that by
some process of elimination the dil
fereiit aspirants will withdraw until
the man who it is known tan be
elet ted W ill be decidi .l upon.
in connection Willi the propose. I
elimination process it is said this
evening by out- of the field candidates
that it has nan owed down to a eon
test between n d minis! i al Ion and anti
a. 'ministration supporters; that at tho
I it-sent lime the strength was divided,
1". votes against the administration
man to ;i for him The other U nro
in doubt. Paul N'cshit lias been held
up as the administration choice. The
labor Vote is solidly against him und
it Is possible that the fact that he is
an admmlsttntion favorite has Invited
other opposition.
One candidate for speaker said to
night that "it has cine to what wu
expected It would, a light between
aiiniinistratlon ami anti-admluislru-tion
forces, with the latter consider
ably in thu majority. We ure going
to see who names the speaker of the
legislature, the members or thu gov
ernor." It Is expected that several caucuses
will be held before Tuesday morning.
The sudden pronounced turn In af
fairs has sui prise.! many, because It
was believed that Nesblt had ft lend
that could not be mistaken. It seenn
that licit Hodges' strength Is liii'rcaa
mg rapidly.,
I
J-
