v HARRISBURG (££&> TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 303 12 PAGES
CHY TO COLLECT
ASHES AND MAKE
REDUCTION CO.
FOOT THE BILL
City Health Officer Empower
ed to Employ Such Men,
Wagons, Etc., as May Be
Necessary to Remedy the
Situation
DR. RITZMAN WILL LOOK
AFTER "CLEAN-UP" JOB
Commissioner Lynch Offers
Resolution to Bring About
Solution of Problem; Bud
get Ordinance Passed;
Calls For $755,982.25
Harrisburg to-day took initial steps
toward solving the ash collection prob
lem when City Council adopted reso
lutions directing Br. J. M. J. .Raunick,
director of the Bureau of Health and
Sanitation, to proceed with the collec
tions on behalf of the city.
By the terms of the resolution, Br.
Raunick is empowered to employ such
men, wagons, etc., as may be neces
sary to remedy the trouble about which
thousands of Harrisburg's citizens
have been complaining for several
years.
The city's activity on its own behalf
becomes effective January 2 and the
bill must be footed by the contracting
company, the Pennsylvania Reduction
Company, or its bondsman, the Ameri
can Surety Company.
Br. Kit/.man in Charge
Br. Raunick. who was present when
Council took this step, announced that
the assistant city health officer. Dr. A.
S. liitzman, will supervise this work
and that all complaints, etc., should be
that all complaints, etc., should be
filed with Dr. Ritzman at the Bureau
of Health.
By special delivery letter Assistant )
City Solicitor E. Bruce Taylor last
evening notified the surety company of I
Council's contemplated action to-day |
and another letter notifying it of the
action taken to-day will so out in to
day's mall.
The resolutions, which, it is hoped,
will bring about a solution of a nerve
racking, cuss-producing problem of
several years, were offered by City
Commisisoner W. H. Lynch, supported
by Park Commissioner E. Z. Gross.
Both commissioners Cross and Corgas
spoke-briefly in endorsement of the
motion.
The Contractor's Failure
The resolution calls attention to the !
fact that the "Pennsylvania Reduction i
Company, the contractor for the col- |
[Continued on Page X]
8-Hour Parade Committee
to Complete Plans Tonight
Chief Marshal C. R. Zimmerman, of
the New Year eight-hour-day parade,
will meet to-night with the members
of the booster committee and repre
sentatives of the various organizations.
In answer to a circular letter sent out
early this week, several more accept
ances have been received, and It Is
expected there will be twelve organ
izations and ten floats In lino.
Two cash prizes will bo awarded.
One will go to the organization or
business firm having the most attract
ive and appropriate float: second prlzo
will go to the organization having tho
largest number of men in line. Any
individual or organization not entered
may do so Monday morning, said the
chief marshal to-night.
The parade will form at 9.30 Mon
day morning at Front and Kelly
streets. The Judgos will review tho
parade at Thirteenth and Market
streets. A change was made to-day
in the route and it will be as follows:
Out Rctly to Third street, to Ham
ilton, to Sixth, to Market, io Market
Square, countermarch to Tourth. out
Fourth to Mulberry street bridge, to
Thirteenth, to Market and dismiss.
NEW RECORD FOR CLEARINGS
Philadelphia, Dec. SO. —Hank clear
ings and balances In Philadelphia for
1916 set up a new record. Tho clear
ing house to-day announced that the
Philadelphia clearings lor the year
were $13,033,317,712, as compared
with $8,803,633,292 last year. The
balances for 1916 were $1,327,486,740,
as compared with $847,076,564 in 1915.'
I THE WEATHER
For llnrrlfcliurjc nml vicinity t I'nlr
and continued cold 10-iilklil ami
Sunday) lotvrMt temperature to
■illllit about 20 deltrreH.
For KaMtern reiumy Ivinilai Fair,
continued cold tu-niKh) mid Sun.
days Ketille to moderate north
went to uortli wind*.
ltlver
Tile lower portion of tho Went
liruiicli nml probably tho upper
portion of the main river will
rise aomewhal | other Htreama of
the •.vateni will full nlottlv or re*
main nearly Mtaiioiniry, A atage
of nhout 4.7 feet Is indicated for
Harrlxburi; Sunday mornluif.
The lee at ltenovo moved out at
-li.HO p. in., Friday, ou aliout Met en
feet of ttnleri It liiim probably
gorged near l.ock Haven.
Ueneral Condition*
Under the Influence of marked lilirh
preMMiire, fair weather lium pre
vailed over nearly all the I'nited
States during the last twenty
four liourK, except in the (iiill
nnd .South Atlantic StateM and In
Southern California, where IlKlit
rain* fell.
There linn been a further fall of 2 to
tH deicrecN In temperature In the
Atlantic and Ciulf StateM mid In
the Ohio Valley anil TeiuteMHCc.
Temperaturei S a. na. f 2-.
Sun: Hlmcm, 7:2N a. m.; Nets, 4:48
p. m.
Moon i Netv moon, flrHt quarter,
to-morrow, December Ul, 7:07
a. m.
River stanej 4.7 feet above low
water mark.
Vcaterday'n Weather
HlichcMt temperature, 32.
l.oweNt temperature, 22.
Mean temperature. 27.
Normal temperature, 31.
TRAINMEN BACK OF EIGHT-HOUR DAY
< -
I bhh J|HH||hv fflßf j
, M IHH . *$U aHB
GEORGE C. "BAM FORD CTi.ZmriERN AN-chief MAP. FRANK MOT^DAN- CHAIRMAN .JOSEPH 5. WAGNER 1
WILLIAM M. PETERS CLAPENCE W. MILLER WILLIAM F. DONACHY WILLIAM F. BARBOUR
—Photos by Roshon.
When the members of White Block Lodge No. 127, Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen first discussed plans for an eight-hour day parade, as a
New Year's Day feature, it was the belief that the legality of the Adamson law would be established. The parade was to have been a ratification
demonstration. This being impossibl eat this time because of no decision having been handed down, Monday's parade will be a general eight-hour
booster celebration.
The men in charge are much en couraged over the prospects for a large tournout and will meet to-night to complete details. The men pictured
above include the chief marshal, chairman and active members on the local committee. They have been working hjird.
1,700 ENTRIES
RECEIVED FOR
MUMMER PARADE
13 Cluhs Will Be in Line New
Year's Afternoon; Marshal
Issues Orders
Entries for the mummers' parade
on Monday afternoon at I o'clock
number 13 clubs and 1,70*0 persons.
In addition to this representation there
will be 20 floats. No entrance fee foi
individuals will be charged.
The route will be as follows: Form
on State street with right resting on
Third, to Market, to Fourth,' to Wal
nut, to Third to North, to Sixth, to
Maclay, to Third, to North, to Second,
to Market, where the chief marshal
[Continued on Page .1]
Miss Gutelius, Who Led
Jail Prayer Services For
Thirty Years, Is Dead
Minn Ellen Gutelius, aged 70, one
of tho most active charitable, reform
ond religious workers in the city, died
at the Harrisburg Hospital yesterday
morning. She is ourvived by two sis
ters. Mrs. F. A, Shaffner, of Carlisle,
and Mir. L,ydia Mous, of Westminster,
Md, Funeral services will be held in
tho Reformed Salem Church to-mor
row afternoon ut 3 o'clock, Tho Rev,
Ellis N. Kremer will officiate. Tho
body will be taken to Littlestown,
Adams county, Monday morning by
Undertaker Hoffman for burial.
For many years Miss Gutelius and
her sister, Jennie Gutelius, deceased,
conducted a notion store at 28 North
Second street. She was vcrv netive in
the religious services of tho Y, W, C, A.
held at the Ijauphln county Jail and
had conducted prayer services there
for thtry years. For about eighteen
years she had conducted prayer serv
ices in the wards at the Harrlsburg
Hospital,
Miss Gutelius was a former teacher
of a large women's Bible class at the
Reformed Salem Church, Up until
the lust two Sundays she had not
missed r, session at tho church in
twelve years,
Fondness For Pickled
Pigs' Feet Leads to
Arrest of Murderer
Kansas City, Mo., Dee. 30.—Fondness
for pickled pigs' feet led to the arrest
in Kansas City, Kan., to-day of T. Fos
ter, alias Joe Clarke, a negro, who,
the police say, is wanted in McLe
moresville, Tenn., in connection with
the killing of another negro there.
Clarke had just left a restaurant
where he had consumed an extra large
portion of his favorite dish when two
defectives entered.
"That boy can cat more pigs' feet
than anyone I ever saw," said the pro
prietor to the detectives. The officers
remembered receiving a report a few
days ago from which
said that Foster's chief peculiarity was
his fondness for pickled Digs' feet, and
that he boasted of his arnllty to con
sume more of that article of food at
one meal than any negro In Tennessee.
Foster's arrest Immediately followed
and according to tho detectives he ad
mitted the killing, pleading self
defense. He said ho wi;uld ruUirn
without requisition.
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 30, 1916.
8-HOUR PROBLEM
BACK TO TRAINMEN
FOR NEXT STEP
Brotherhoods Place Next Step
in Controversy Before
Membership
New York, Dec. 30. Tho 400,000
railroad employes affiliated with the
four trainmen's brotherhoods will de
cide the next step which will be taken
by their authorized committee which
has been handling their side of the
controversy over the operation of the
[Continued on Pago 7]
Monster New Type U-Boat
Shells British Freighter
New York. Dec. 30. —Tho British
freight steamship Chicago City, from
Bristol, England, December 11, was
fired on and stopped by a German sub
marine December 14 when about 120
miles off Fastnct, according to a re
port of the crew on her arrival here
to-day.
Tho Chicago City was saved from
being sunk by the timely appearance
of a British destroyer attracted by the
firing. Two shots were fired by the
submarine, the men said. Captain
Crinks stopped the vessel and the
men were getting Into the lifeboats
when the destroyer hove in sight.
The submarine is described as being
of a new type, more than 200 feet long
and painted dead black. Two guns
were seen mounted on her deck. It
was evident she was maneuvering into
a position from which to discharge a
torpedo when the destroyer was seen,
the crew said, and she immediately
sank from sight.
LETTER TO TAILOR HERE SHOWS
HOW WAR-WEARY SOLDIERS ARE
LOOKING TOWARD UNITED STATES
How the eyes of war-weary soldleri
Hre turning toward peaceful America ;
| us their mecca following the gi-eat war
j in Europe, how the kindly spirit of
1 Americans toward unfortunates in the
war zone is appreciated by those in
; the midst of the conliict and how mid
all the publications that have found
their way into the trenches and be
yond one soldier chanced upon the
advertisement of a Harrisburg busi
nessman and wrote him as a possible
friend in need is shown by a letter ;
received to-day by A 1 J. Simms, secre
tary of the Custom Cutters' Club, of
Harrisburg. The letter, which is self-. (
explanatory, follows:
"Camp do Zeist.
Nov. 21, 1916.
"My Dear Sir:
"Pardon me if I call your attention
for a moment to a Belgian soldier,,
prisoner interned in Holland and who j
was in civilian ,a custom cutter.
"Find your name and address by
chance, I was so free to send you this
letter with hope of good luck, that
you will help me, when It Is possible, i
however I are a stranger for you.
"We have here'ln our prisoner life
as much spare time to study, but un- •
fortunately I have not the necessary
means for doing It. Out of Belgium 1 <
SCOURING CITY
FOR NEGRO WHO
ATTACKED GIRL
Miss- Mildred Walker Knocked
Unconscious by Intruder
in Her Home
Returning home last evening, Miss
Mildred Walker, 18-year-old daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Nelson A. Walker,
1615 Regina street, was knocked un
conscious by a negro when s' discov
ered him on the second Iloor of her
home.
The negro escaped and city police
to-day scoured the city to tind him.
[Continued on Papre 7]
Big Magazines and
Periodicals Raise Prices
Owing to Cost of Paper
New York, Dec. 30.—Owing to the
increased cost of white paper and
other materials necessary to printing
and art work, several magazines of
national circulation announced to-day
Increases in the price of subscriptions.
Other periodicals have already given
notice of a similar jump in price. Sev
eral of the smaller magazines in New
York have suspended publication and
others are planning to merge with
publications controlled by the same in
terests.
Publishers explnln that many of
them have had to renew their con
tracts for paper nt this time and to
pay nearly .10 per cent, more than this
Item has cost them in the past.
The rise in subscription prices an
nounced to-day ranged from 20 to
33 1-3 per cent.
wo cannot get anything, the frontiers
are shut since a two years, Therefore
I write you to ask you to help me, as
possibly, by sending some tailors' or
cutters' booklets or publications, for
gents or ladies, and which you don't
use more; or perhaps an old cutting
book, 1 should be very much obliged
to you,
"I hope, Mr. Simins, that you will
excuse my request by considering our
difficult situation, Your kindness can
make possible that the sad time we
must still stay here become more use
ful and agreeable.
"Accept, my dear sir, the expression
of my respectful sentiment and before
hand my best thanks.
r Yours most gratefully,
"Eugene Ongenaert, Soldier,
"Belgiaji Interne, sth Regiment,
2d Bat., 4th Comp.,
"Camp do Zeiat, Holland.''
Not only will Mr. SJtnms, whose
tailoring establishment is equipped
with a large number of such publica
tions as requested, send the desired
books, but It may be that the despon
dent Belgian will hold down a custom
cutter's Job In Harrisburg after the
war. How the man procured his ad
dress Mr. Slmms does not pretend to
know, unless through the advertising
columns of some publication.
EXPLANATION OF,-
FIRST NOTE SENT
TO BELLIGERENTS
Not Presented Because It Was
Not Influenced bv Mis-
conceptions
Rerlin, Dec. 29 (Via London, Dec.
•10) lt has been learned that a few
days ago President Wilson sent a sec
ond note, explanatory of the first, to
the central powers and the entente
nations. This note has not been pre
sented.
The reason for the withholding of
the second note is said to be that the
German reply, received in the interim,
showed tl.at the German government
had not been influenced - by the mis
[Continued oil Page 7]
Seventeen Couples Will
Start 1917 United
D. Cupid had a chance to-day to
welcome the dawn of the new year
with a more than ordinarily broad
smile if Dauphin county marriage
license bureau statistics are at all
significant. Seventeen couples applied
for licenses. The applicants were:
Oscar Marlin Bufflngton, Hummels
town, and Violet Isabel Thompson,
Middletown; Clarence W. Stone and
Martha Anna Hurst, Bresslcr; Clyde
Norman Chamberlain, Waynesboro,
and Anna Katherine McKenzle, Cham
bersburg; Warren O. Brossman, Sink
ing Springs, and Lillie May Myers,
Krltztown: Klread It. Becher, Reading,
and Mary C. Jones, city; Joseph E.
Hall and Hazel B. Robinson, city; Paul
Revere Hollenbach and Laura Marie
Moretz, Steelton; Ralph L. Taylor, De
troit, and Pearl Rebecca Bogner, city;
Alvin M. Campbell and Maude R. Um
berger, city; Ralph P. Fox and Lucinda
liowe, city; Jacob N. Pillow, Palmyra,
and Mary E. Resich, Millersburg; Da
vid Coleman, city, -and Mary E. Shive,
Lemoyne; Clarence K. Weaver, Mount
Joy, and Elizabeth B. Prosey, Salunga;
Allen G. Rumberger, Fleming, and
Anna M. Wilson, Sandy Ridge; Harry
L. Novingcr, Upper Paxton, and Lulu
H. Reigle, Washington township; Pres
ton Crowell. Jr., and Alice Stevens,
city, and Walter Scott Coble. Worm
leysburg, and Winifred M. Swalls, city.
PAPERS HUSK THICKS
Kven Wffklj Piilillcntlonn Kind It Nec
etiNnry to IncrriiMe ItrvrllUP
Ilraddock, Pa., Dee. 30, The Brad
dock Dally News-Herald announced
tlmt after January 1 the price of single
copies of the paper, will be advanced to
two cents on account of the Increase In
cost of materials,
Carlisle, Pa., Dec, 30, . The first
Cumberland county newspaper to an
nounce an advance In rates, following
the soaring prices of news print paper,
was the recently consolidated Newvllle
Times-Star, a weekly, which will after
January 1 bo $J.25 a year in the county
and $1.50 outside. Other newspapers,
both daily and weekly, are expected to
announce advances.
Allentown, Pa., Deo, 80. On ac
count of the exorbitant price of white
paper the Lehigh Register, a weekly,
founded seventy years ago, which for
a generation lias been owned by tbo
Allentown Chronicle and News, sus
pended publication with this week's is
sue.
Pennsburg, I'a., Dec. 30. ln yester
day's issue of Town and Country,
Pennsburg's weekly newspaper, the
publisher. Dr. Charles Q. Hillegas, an
nounces tliat the subscription price has
been raised from $1.50 a year to $2,
ALLIES FIGHT
STUBBORNLY AS
THEY FALL BACK
Heavy Rear Guard Actions as
Invaders Press Ahead in
Rumania
TAKE MORE PRISONERS
In Engagement Along Molda
vian Frontier Guns Are
Captured, Too
The Russians and Rumanians are
fish ting a heavy rear gruard action as
they retire toward the line of the
Serth in the Northeastern Wallaeliia
and Southern Moldavia.
To-day's German army headquar
ters report shows steady progress for
Held Marshal Von Maekensen's ar
mies along the entire front between
the Rumanian Carpathians and the
Danube, despite the strong resistance
they are encountering. At the same
[Continued on Page 7]
Drunken Farm Hand Kills
Young Girl While Asleep
Camden, N. J.. Bee. 30.—Mary Sea
man, 14-year-old daughter of John J.
Seaman, a farmer, living near Glen
loch, N. J., fourteen miles from Cam
den, was shot and killed while in bed
early to-day, according to the police,
by Thomas Conway, 32 years old, a
farm hand employed by Seaman.
After shooting the girl Conway at
tempted to cut his throat and then
shot himself in the breast. He was
taken, seriously injured, to a hospital
here.
The coroner attemnted to question
Conway, but all that could be learned
from him was that he had been drink
ing and that when he tried to commit
suicide he "lost his nerve."
Diaz Filibusters Are
Reported Across Border
Washington, B. C., Dec. 30.—Major-
General Funston, commanding the
American forces on the Mexican bor
der, advised the War Department to
day that he had been unable to sub
stnntiate rumors that a Felix Biax
filibustering party had crossed into
Mexico from the United States.
BANK CLEARINGS TOTAL NEARLY $100,000,000 |
Harrisbur •. Bank figures for the year showing the m
amount of business handled by the Harrisburg Clearing
House, wen c >mplete late this afternoon. They show big M&j
increases over last year. The total for the year was $99,- j
946,157.05. December business amounted to $9,607,904.15. M J|
Business daring 1915, totaled $87,767,765.04, making an in- ;j\ jl
crease fc sl2 7- 392.01. j (
Berlin, Wednesday, Dec. 27,' via London, Dec. 30. < '
i
Germany ha cided to r< lease, for internment in Switzer- I '
land, 100 ] of war; fathers of three or more J 1
! children and inmates of German prison camps for eighteen i 'JM
months. This step will be extended, it is slated, shoul a
f France di disposition to reciprocate. I
plans for £
! the 200 Americans interned for months in Syria and Pales-, Si
tine made by the State Department to-day and communi- J
cated to Ambassador Elkus at Constantinople, provide for
sending the cruiser Des Moines from Alexandria/ Egypt, to l; 5j
t Beirut as soon as the refugees are brought from Jaffa. j
SEVEN OF AIRPLANE SQUADRON LAND a
* Philadel[ ■ :ia. Dec. 30. —Seven cf the fourteen airplanes , ' v
that left ' ed, N. Y., and Governor's Island, N. Y., J MM
> in a flight to this city, landed at the Philadelphia navy yard |
1 in two hours ar leaving the tarting point. It was one of j L
► the coldei tdys of the present winter and the aviators an J I '
: their passen were stiff from the cold and were 'covered ; |'J
| with aithin casing of ice. The flight of the airplanes, ore ' | ,'j|
. of the g-c. : that hak been attempted in this country, ' |*|l
v * I
number of machines and distance considered, was under- i j a
taken for the double purpose of competing for government
air lines and test stabilizers and other devices,
f RAILROAD STRIKE IMPROBABLE MONDAY
J i
Cleveland. 0., Dec. 30.—Warren .S. Stone and W. G. r v " :J
Lee, heads of the railway engineers and railway trainmen* 1 I||
' brotherhoods, respectively, arrived in Cleveland to-day I *
J following the icjection pf the demand by the manager; j <
committee that the Adams o-n law be placed in effect Janvi- J r
ary 1. "It is highly improbable that there will be a strike j
—Morni.r. ■" tn. > .lid, J I
.' 1
Single Copy, 2 Cents POSTSCRIPT
PLAN COMMUNITY
CLUB TO LIFT UP
FOREIGN SECTION
Public Spirited Group of Men
and Women Will Open
Recreation Center
|TO ASSIST CHILDREN
Child Marriage and Youthful
Drunkenness Common in
Seventh Ward
Organization of the Penn Commun
ity Club to improve conditions in the
foreign district in Seventh street and
vicinity, is being completed by a num
ber of residents of the city who for
months have been contemplating plans
to open rooms for reading and recrea
tion for the boys and girls In that
distinct.
Within a few weeks the house at
1121 N <rth Seventh street will lie
opened for this purpose. Special com
mittees are at work arranging for im
provements and renovations. One of
the leaders interested in the work has
made the following explanation of the
plan for the Telegraph:
"For a long time there has been in
the minds of two or three persons,
who are thoroughly acquainted with
the condition of the foreign element of
our city in the region of Seventh street,
a vision of a work that might be-done
to hol]> the children of this commun
ity to grow up into a useful and high
type of citizen for our city, our State,
our country.
"Much has been done in an indi
vidual way for'these people but the
need is of a concerted effort for the
uplift and training of these citizens in
i embryo.
Need First Shown
"This need was! brought before an
I assembly of ladies some time ago by
i one who is personally interested in
\ these people and who knows much of
j their surroundings and needs. The
[Continued on Pane 3]
AVAHNS OF KISS AS OHII AGENT
Chester, Pa., Dec. 30. ln n state
ment to the publics, ii. P. Wright, di
rector of public safety, warns against
kissing until the present epidemic of
grip and pneumonia is over.
