' PA IT? fIS8l PLAY "-:'v
1 vmVj yiiV. ti.-,, ji-'vkvii?ve. jwrssorwr. s vrrwnAY. diockufek :mk una NtrarKEH aa.
OF
IMPORTANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 1916
Great Conflict Rages With Increased Intensity Roumania, Fif
teenth Nation to Enter Strupglo, Overrun by Central Pow
ersTeutonic Allies Make First Peace Proposals
United States Faces Several Crises'.
THE EUROPEAN WAR
f
Those ivlio nro engaged In or nro
viewing nt close range the tltnnlc con
flict In which nil Europe Ir Involved
can with dllilqulty (appreciate the
magnitude of Iho 'events -which have
transpired during the past 12 months.
Genorutlons to come, however, looking
back upon this period with n clearer
vision, will recognize the 5-ear 1010
as one of the most tremendous, from
a history-making standpoint, slnco the
world began.
Europe continued Its blood-letting
throughout the year with even greater
ferocity than ninrked the tlrst 18
months following tho breaking of the
storm. The great war rounded out
Its second and entered upon Its third
year, with little promise of an early
conclusion of peace. During tho year
now nations entered Into the war, one
of them, Itoumanla, to become the
scene of some of the most ferocious
fighting of the yenr, one new nation
was created, another tottered to Its
fall, while on a dozen fronts millions
of men were fed ns human sacrifices
to the Insatiate war monster.
There, were seven outstanding
phases of the great war during the
year 11)10. These comprised the great
offensive of the Hussions In Gullclu,
which was finally checked by the Teu
tonic allies; tho superhuman efforts of
the Germans to capture Verdun,
which were thwarted by the equally
superhuman defense offered by the
French ; the long-uwnlted grand offen
sive of tho British nnd the French on
the western front, resulting In the re
covery of considerable area In the
Somme region, but not dellnltely.hrenk
Ing the deadlock In norlliern France;
the checking of nn Austrian offensive
by. the Italians nnd the launching of
a counter-offensive by which the Ital
ians made big strides In their cam
paign against Trieste; the conquest of
Itoumuntn by the Teutonic nllles; the
drive of the Serbs, aided by French.
Italian nnd British troops, in nn effort
to regain their lost kingdom, nnd the
final jObandonment by the entente nl
lles of their disastrous Gnlllpoll cam
paign. The Russians launched their of
fensive ,ln Gnllcln on the first day of
the year. On Jnnunry 0, the effort of
the entente nllles to force the Darda
nelles was definitely abandoned, nnd
the forces of the nllles entirely evncu
ated the Gnlllpoll peninsula.
Verdun Attack Launched.
Early In February, the itusslans, aft
er a lull In the fighting, resumed their
offensive In Gnllclo and on February 10
they crossed the Dniester and threat
ened Czernowitz. The Russians,! un
dcr Grand Duki! Nicholas, also con
tinued their drive In the Caucasus and
on February 14 they captured the
Important town of Erzcrum. Febru
ary 21, the Germans, led by the crown
prince, launched their attack on Ver
dun, and during the next few days
they smashed their wny through the
outer defenses until they came within
big-gun range of the Frencli strong-,
hold. The French, taken by surprise,
were forced to give ground, but by
tlie last of the month they had
strengthened their shattered lines nnd
had checked tho German drive. In tho
Verdun sector, for the next few
months, occurred somo of tho most
sanguinary fighting of tho entire war.
The Austrlnns had considerable suc
cess on tho Italian front during the
month, entering Durnzzo on February
20 and driving the Italians before
them. Portugal signalized Its entry
Into the great conlllet February 20 by
seizing 34 German steamers Interned
In Portuguese ports, Germany demand
ed tho release of the ships and on
March "0 declared war on Portugal, the
thirteenth nation to entcc tbu. coo
ict.
Tho month of March was marked
chiefly by the continued determined nt
tackn of the Germans' upon Verdun.
71)0 assault entered Its third stnge in
this month with repented attacks on
Vnux, Dounumont nnd other outlying
towns, most of which wero repulsed
with 'terrific losses. During the month
tho Italians finally checked tho Aus
trian drive and launched n big offen
sive along the entire Austrian front.
The Itusslans continued their victori
ous drive against the Turks In Ar
monlt, capturing nulls .on March 3,
and other Important townsiater In the
month,.
Tho early days of April saw a slow
ing up of tho Russluti offensive In Gn
Ilcla. Tho Germans launched a coun
ter offcnslvo all along tho Russian
front but gained llttlo headway. The
following months saw terrific fighting
along this front. Aprl 23, tho British
admitted a defeat at the hands of the
Turks In Mesopotamia and on April
0, General Townshend nnd 10,000 Brit
ish soldiers, who had been besieged by
the Turks nt Kut-cI-Amara, were
forced to surrender ufter repeated ef
forts to relievo them had failed.
Great Sea Dattfe Fought.'
Tho first great nuvnl battlo of tho
war was fougl)t by the German and
nrltlsh high sens fleets off tho coast of
Jutland. Denmark, May 31. Tho Brit
ish admit, tbb loss of six largo cruisers
and eight destroyers, tho Germans ono
bfi)uhli, one battlo cruiser and a
number of light cruisers nnd destroyers.
.More than 0,000 lives were lost. Both
sides claim the victory. Five days later
Great Britain received n staggering
blow when the British cruiser Hntup
6hlro was blown up In the North sea
by n'mlito nnd KntMiltf'.ener'.'DrltlMv
secretary of war, nnd bis entire staff,
were lost. During the enrly part of
Juno tho Russians broadened their of
fensive In Gnllcln and along the lines
further north nnd on June 7 they an
nounced tho recapture of the fortress
of Lutsk In Volhynln nnd the crossing
of the Ikwn nnd Styr rivers nt several
points.
On July 1, the Rritlsh and Frencli
launched their great drive on the west
front. A concerted attack was made
on a 25-mllo front north nnd south of
tho Somiiio river. July 11, after ten
days nnd nights of continuous light
ing, tho British claimed the capture
of tho whole of the enemy's first lines
of defense on n front of 11,000 ynrds.
During the remainder of the month the
British nnd French continued their ad
vance, the British occupying tho entire
village of Pozleres July 20 nnd the
French advancing close to Peronne, nn
Important railroad center.
During tho month of August the
Russians, after terrific fighting, pierced
the Teuton lines on the Lemberg" and
Kovcl fronts and advanced In the Cur
pnthlnns. The Italians continued their
drive on Trieste. August 0. nfter days
of terrific fighting, they captured Go
rltz and pushed forwnrd, pursuing tho
retreating Austrlans.
Roumania Enters War.
Roumania, after month of wavering,
entered the wnr on the side of the en
tente allies with n declaration of wnr
on Austria-Hungary. Roumania was
the fifteenth nation to enter the war.
On the same day Italy declared war on
Germany and the following day Ger
many declared war on Rnumnnln. With
the declaration of wnr fighting began
between the Roumanians nnd Aus
trlnns on the Trnnsylvanlnn frontier.
August 30. the Roumanians occupied
Kronstndt nnd Henuannstudt, the two
chief cities of Transylvania. Field
Marshal von Hlndenburg. whose suc
cesses had made him the Idol of the
German people, succeeded General von
Fnlkenbayn ns chief of the general
staff of the Gennnn nrmy August 29.
During the month of September, the
Roumanians, co-operating with the
Russians, advanced In northern Tran
sylvania and Bukowlnn. but suffered
severe reverses at the bands of the
Bulgarians nnd Austrlans In Dobrudja.
The allied troops made decided gains
In the Somtnu sector, occupying
Combles nnd other Important towus
on September 20.
Enrly In Ocfobcr tho tide turned
ugnlnst the Roumanians and Russians
In Transylvania nnd the latter were
forced to retire before a strong Austro
German force under command of Gen
eral von Falkenhnyn. On October 11,
the Teutons began nn Invasion of Rou
mania. On the Verdun front, the
French smashed the German lines Oc
tober 24, retaking Dounumont fort nnd
village.
The struggle between the Roumanian
nnd 'Russian forces on the one side nnd
tho Teuton nnd Bulgarian armies on
the other held the center of attention
In November, Taking advantngo of
the plight In which the Roumanians
on the Trnnsylvanlnn front found
themselves Von Mnckensen held his
lines In Dobrudja and, attacking the
Danube line, forced the river barrier
at several points. Effecting a Juncture
of their forces, the Teuton command
ers drove the Roumanians back upon
Bucharest. The Roumanians retreat
ed rapidly toward the capital, burning
villages and till stores of grain and
munitions in the district through which
they passed. November .2S. the neat.
Tjr!rrernoihTnnra"n" government was
moved from Bucharest to Jnssy. near
the Russian frontier. The Roumanians
evacuated Bucharest December 0 In or
der to save their army.
Tho Serbians, aided by French nnd
Italian troops, made a slnrt townrd
winning back their country during No
vember, Their big drive resulted In
the capture of Monustlr on November
10. On the Somme front the battle of
tho Ancro opened November 13 with
the capture by the British of five miles
of the German positions, together with
three strong towns.
An announcement of fur-reaching
slgnlficnnco was made In the Russian
dumn Dccembfr 2 by Premier Trepoff,
who read n proclamation announcing
officially that an agreement concluded
by Russia, Franco nnd Orent Britain
In 1015, and later approved by Italy,
"establishes la definite manner the
rights of .Russia to tho. straits and
Constantinople,"
The fnll of the Brltlbh cabinet early
In December furnished one of the most
sensational features of tho year's war
developments. Demands of David
Lloyd-Georgu for the formation of u
smaller wnr council to obtain greater
efficiency forced tho resignation of Pre
mier Asqulth. I.loyd-George was made
nremler mid selected a new cabinet
the .prosecution of tho war being
placed In the hands of live men, In-,
eluding the premier.
The first d'rect overtures for pence
enmejon December 13, whin Germany,
Austria-Hungary. Bulgaria nnd Turkey
sent Identical notes to the entente nl
lles through the United States. Spain
nnd Switzerland, proposing that the
belligerents arrange a conference for
the discussion .of pence terms. The
notes were transmitted to the allied
governments by President Wilson with
out comment. The pence proposals
were received coldly. Premier Brliind.
In the French house of deputies, Is
sued n warning against n premature
pence, and the Russian dumn, accord
ing to announcement made December
10, passed n resolution favoring n re
fusal on the part of the allied govern
ments to enter Into nny pence nego
tiations whatever under present con
ditions. As If In answer to tho pence pro
posals, the French In the Verdun sec
tor delivered n crushing nttnek on the
German forces December ir, winning
12 squnve miles of territory north of
Verdun nnd driving the Germans back
close to the lino from which they start
ed their great offensive ngalnst Ver
dun In February. General Nivclle,
who directed this attack, had been n
few dnys before placed In supreme
command of the French nrmlcs In the
west, succeeding General .Toffre, who
was tnndo commander In chief of the
French nrmlcs, but with llttlo more
than advisory powers.
WAR AND THE UNITED STATES
Diplomatic dlfilcultles growing out
of the wnr In Europe continued to
confront the United States govern
ment throughout the past yenr. The
submarine controversy with Germany,
which bad been more or less ncute
since the sinking of the Lusltnnla, was
Intensified March 2, when the British
Channel steamer Susses and the Brit
Mi steamer Englishman, both of which
carried Americans, were torpedoed
nnd sunk without warning. This oc
curred nbout two weeks nfter congress,
nt tho urging of the president, had re
fused to adopt a resolution warning
Americans to remain off armed mer
chant ships of the belligerents. The
germnn government nt first denied nny
responsibility for the attack on the
Sussex, nnd on April 18 President Wil
son nddressed n note which amounted
practically to nn ultimatum to tho Ger
mnn government. In this note the pres
ident declared that unless Germany
Immediately declared and effected nn
abandonment of Its methods of sub
marine warfare ngalnst passenger and
freight-carrying vessels, tho United
States could "have no choice hut to
sever diplomatic rclatfons with the
German empire altogether." Ger
many's reply to this note, received In
Washington May 5, promised compli
ance In the future with the laws of
warfare In Its submarine operations,
A supplcmentnry note from Berlin, re
ceived May 10. admitted that.tho Sus
sex was torpedoed, expressed regret,
offered Indemnity nnd declared that
tho submarine commander had been
punished. No further serious contro
versy occurred with Germany until
after the sinking of the Marlnn, with
Americans aboard, October 28. It was
charged that tho vessel was torpedoed
without warning. After an Investiga
tion Germany assumed responsibility
for the sinking of the boat, declaring
that tho captain of tho submarine
thought tho Marina an armed trans
port. An Interchange of notes between the
United Stntes and the entente govern
ments, regarding the seizure nnd exam
ination of American malls, was produc
tive of little result. In several com
munications Great Britain nnd 'France
Insisted upon their rights to examine
neutral malls, but on October 12 they
made somo slight concessions, promis
ing to Improve the mail service be
tween America nnd neutral countries.
A blacklist against American firms
ami Individuals, charged with dealing
with Germany, which wns published
by Great Britain July 18, and by
France August 0, brought emphatic
protests from tho United States gov
ernment, but on November 1 1 Great
Britain formally rejected tho American
protests, declaring that the blacklist
was not nlmed nt neutrals.
MEXICO AND UNITED STATES
The relations of the United States
with Mexico became more strained
jdurlng 1910-than jit uny.prcvlous time
uuruiK in.- ai-iirs in tivii wnr null ioi
lowed the retirement of President Por
flrlo Dlnz. They npproached n crisis
early In tho year when, on January )0,
nineteen men, nearly all of them
Americans, were' taken from a truln
near Chihuahua and killed by a band
of bandits.
Conditions heenme still more tense
when, on March 0, several hundred
bandits led by Villa raided nnd burned
tho town of Columbus, N, M killing
nine Amerlcnn civilians and eight Uni
ted Stntes soldiers, March 10, Presi
dent Wilson ordered 5,000 United
Stntes troops Into Mexico to catch
Villa.
General Carranza, head of tho de
fucto government In Mexico, began
sViou to display nntngnnlsm toward the
Amerlcnn expedition and on March 17
ho Issued orders forbidding American
troops from entering Mexican towns.
Ho ulso refused to grant permission
for the Amerlcnn forces to use the
Mexican railroads for tho transporta
tion of supplies,
April 12, n detachment of United
States troops wns attacked by Carran
za troops and citizens of I'nrrnl, Two
Americans nnd 40 Mexicans wero kill
eikln the encounter. The following day
Currunzn demanded Ihe withdrawal of
the American troops from Mexico, but
his demand wns Ignored. Tho pursuit
of Villa came to n standstill, however,
becnuso of the hostility of Carrunza,
My 31, Geuerul Carranzn tigalti de
manded the withdrawal of tho United
States troops from Mexico on peril of
"recourse to arms," nnd followed this
up on Jims 10 with a deSsiie threat of
attack unless the troops were with
drawn northward. The following day
re-enforcements were rushed to tho
Fnltcd States troops In Mexico and
within n short time the expeditionary
force aggregated about 12,000 men.
June 18, the war department ordered
all the sfntc mllltla mobilized and with
in the next two weeks ,"0.(I00 of the
4nto soldiers hnd been rushed to the
border.
A detachment of Amerlcnn troops
was attacked by Carranzn troops nt
Carrlznl, June 21, nnd twelve Ameri
cans were killed nnd 17 captured.
A short time later Carranza aban
doned his' hostile attitude and In u
conciliatory note to President Wilson
suggested the appointment of n Joint
commission tpsotllu the dispute be
tween" the two countries. July 2S.
President Wilson accepted this pro
posal. President Wilson named Secretary
of the Interior Lane, Judge George
Gray nnd Dr. J. R. Mott as members of
tho American commission on August
22 and on September 0, tho Joint com
mission began Its sessions nt New Lon
don, Conn. The sessions continued un
til November 24, when n protocol was
signed providing for the withdrawal
of the United States troops from Mex
ico In 40 days, conditional upon the
Carranza government showing within
that time that it could protect the bor
der nnd prevent raids by bandits upon
Amerlcnn territory.
Two days before the signing of this
protocol, Villa, nt the bend of n strong
force, attacked Chihuahua City and af
ter a bottle lasting several days he
captured that city.
Carranza forces regained control of
Chihuahua City December 3 nnd Villa's
forces lied to the mountnlns west of
that city, where they were later re
ported to be gathering new recruits
In preparation for more -extensive
operations.
INDUSTRIAL AND ECONOMIC
The outstanding feature of the year
in the Industrial world was tho threat
ened strike of the 400.000 members of
the four great railway brotherhoods,
which was prevented onlj by the pas
sage by congress of tho Adnmson bill.
The demands of the four brother
hoods, representing the engineers, fire
men, conductors nnd trainmen, were
made upon the railroads early In the
yenr and nfter fruitless conferences
between tho representatives of tho
brotherhoods and the committee of
general managers representing prac
tically every railroad In tho United
Stntes, n strike vote wns tnken nmong
tho members of the brotherhoods. On
July 20 It was announced that the
vote had been overwhelmingly In favor
of a strike unless the demands of the
men were granted by the railroads.
Tho federal board of mediation Im
mediately offered Its services In nn of'
fort to prevent n strlko but on August
12 the board announced that It had
been unable to bring nbout an agree
ment nnd on tho following day Presi
dent Wilson summoned tho general
mnnngcrs' committee nnd tho brother
hoods' representatives to the White
House for n conference. This confer
ence produced no result, the railroad
managers offering to submit the whole
controversy to nrbltratlon but the
brotherhood representatives refusing
to agree to arbitration of their eight
hour duy demands. August 29, Presi
dent Wilson, with a promise from the
brotherhood lenders flint they could
rescind their strike order, nlrendy Is
sued, If n Inw were passed providing
for the placing of their wage scales
on an eight-hour basis, went before
congress anil asked the passage of
three bills which ho deemed neces
sary to meet tho situation. One of
these bills provided that "eight hours
shall bo deemed the measure or stand
ard of a day's work for the purpose of
reckoning Ihe compensation for serv
ices of nil employees" operating trains
in Interstate truffle.
Other bills proposed by the president
provided for the compulsory submis
sion of rail labor disputes to n board
of mediation to be appointed by the
president before n strike could bo de
clared nnd for government operation of
the railways In case of military neces
sity. - -- -
Tho bill embodying the provision for
the eight-hour basis for wages, known
ns the Adamson hill, wns rushed
through the house September 1 nnd
was passed by the senate September 2.
The order for n strike which was to
have gone Into effect September 4 wns
then rescinded. The session of con
gress ended shortly afterwards and
consideration of the other measures'
proposed by the president was post
poned until the next session,
.Strikes wero In progress In a num
ber of Industries during the enrly part
of the year and somo wero marked by
scenes of violence, April 24, striking
employees of tho Westlnghouso com
pany, led by a masked woman, rioted
In East Pittsburgh. Fatal strike riots
occurred at thr Carnegie Steel works
In Bruddock. Pa., May 2. A big strike
was stinted by the Chicago garment
workers Slay 9. Express drivers In
Chicago struck Mny 10 and consider
ablo violence mnrhed tho strike, ex
press wagons being operated under po
lice protection. July 13, stute troops
were sent to Ln Salle, III., to quell
riots of cement works strikers,
A strlko .of street railway men
stopped nil surfneo curs In the bor
oughs of Manhattan, Bronx nnd Rich
mond, New York. August B, hut tho
strike ended two dnys Infer tempo
rarily, September 0, n strlko of all
men on the subway, elevated and sur
fneo lines In New York wits colled.
Serious riots marked tho street car
strljte In New York, particularly on
October 5
November 5, n largo party of I. W.
V. members from Seattle engaged In
a battle with n sheriff's posse at Ever
ett. Wash. Seven men wero killed dur
ing the fighting.
November 22, Judge Hook of the
United Stntes district court tit Kansas
City. Mn held the Adamson eight-hour
law unconstitutional and un agreement
was reached between the representa
tives of the government nnd of the rail
roads for an appeal to the United
Slates Supreme court In nn effort to
obtain u final decision on tho vulldlty
of tho law as soon as possible.
The year was one of great prosperity
In all mniiiifacturlng nnd agricultural
Industries. Foreign trade of tho Uni
ted States, ns shown by reports of the
department of commerce, reached n
total of $7,403,000,000 In the year end
ing November 1. an Increase of 81,500,-
000. 000 over 1915, nnd $2,500,000,000
over 1014.
The totnl wheat yield of the United
States In 1010 wns only 547.000.000
bushels, ns compared with 1,011.000,000
bushels In 1915 und nt tho snmo time
tberu was almost a proportionate fall
ing off In all other grain crops. While
tho crops decreased enormously In
quantity, they also Increased enor
mously In price. The vnluo of 10 stnple
crops, as based on the November 1 es
timate of the department of ngrlcul
ture, wns $7,099,33S,031, ns compared
with the estimated value on November
1, 1015, of the snmo crops of that year
of $:,0S3TO0,817. The aggregate value
of nil farm products. Including live
stock, was estimated nt $12,000,000,000,
POLITICS IN OTHER LANDS
The Sinn Fein revolt In Irelnnd. the
establishment of a revolutionary gov
ernment In Greece, the proclamation
of Poland ns on Independent nation by
Its Teutonic conquerors nnd the res
toration of the republic In China, con
stituted the most Importnnt develop
ments of n political nature In coun
tries outside of the United States In
1910.
An ofllclnl mandate. Issued March
22, announced the abandonment of the
Chinese nionnrchy and the restoration
of (ho republic which had been dis
placed by the monarchy during the lat
ter part of 1915. Yuan Shi Kal an
nounced bis rejection of the emperor
ship nnd resumed the presidency of
tho republic. Juno 0, Yunn Shi Kal
died suddenly and Yuan LI Hung be
came president.
The Sinn Fein rebellion In Irelnnd
was precipitated on April 18, when Sir
Roger Casement, former consular offi
cer of tho United Kingdom, was cap
tured while attempting to laud In Ire
lnnd from Germany nnd n German
ship loaded with arms to be used In
an Irish uprising wns sunk while at
tempting to land the arms. April 24,
the Sinn Fein rebels seized parts of
Dublin und serious lighting In the
streets followed. The revolt spread,
and on April 27 martial law was de
clared over tho entire Island. April
28, loyal troops took St. Stephens
green In Dublin from the rebels, cap
turing 400 of them, nnd the follpwlng
day, Peter Pearse, "president of the
Irish Republic," surrendered. The
next day the main body of the reb
els surrendered. Mny 3, Penrse, Thomas
J. Clark and Thomas McDonngh. lead
ers of tho revolt, were executed In the
Tower of Loudon, nfter being found
guilty of sedition nt a military trial.
Ten other lenders of tho rebels were
executed during the next few days.
June 20, Sir Roger Casement was
placed on trlnl for treason ln Loudon.
Ho was convicted nnd sentenced to
death Juno 29 and the sentence was
executed by banging In Peiitonvllle
prison, August 3. Following the Sinn
Fein revolt, an effort was made by the
government to bring nbout a compro
mise which would result In the grant
ing of home rule to Ireland at once,
but tho effort wns fruitless.
Tho revolutionary movement In
Greece, which resulted In the forma
tion of u provisional government by
former Premier Venlzelos, grew out of
tho refusal of King Constantino to
be drawn Into tho wnr on the side of
the entente nllles, September 21, the
Island of Crete seceded from Greece,
and on September 28, Former Premier
Venlzelos and Admiral Coundourlotls
Issued a proclamation declaring tho
establishment of a provisional govern-
moitt -far- O rir. - "
Tho Independence of Poland, which
had been wrested from Russln by Teu
tonic arms, wns proclaimed by Ger
many nnd Austria, November 5.
The death of Franz Josef, emperor
of Austria-Hungary, which occurred
November 21, was expected In some
quarters to be productive of events
of fnr-rcachlng Importance from a po
litical viewpoint In the dual monarchy.
POLITICS IN UNITED STATES
The presidential election nnd the
campaign which preceded It occupied
n lurge part of the attention of tho
people of the United Stntes through
out the year 1010. June 5, the Wom
an's party was originated and opened
Its first convention In Chicago, Two
dnys later both the Republican und
Progressive national conventions open
ed In Chicago, June 10. former Presi
dent Theodore Roosevelt wns nomi
nated for president by the Progressives
and Charles Evans Hughes, associate.
Justice of tlie United States Supremo
court nnd former governor of New
York, was nominated by ihe Republi
cans, Tho Republicans nominated
Charles W. Fairbanks of Indiana for
vice president nnd the Progressives
named John M. Parker of Louisiana ns
Roosevelt's running mnte. June 10,
the Democratic national convention
convened In St, Louis and Ihe follow
ing duy President Wilson and Vice
President Marshall were renominated
without opposition. June 20, Colonel
Iloosevclt declined tho Progressive
nomination nnd the mnjorlly of the
members of the Progressive nations!
committee, meeting In Chicago, en
dorsed tho cnndldury of Mr. Hughe.
Tho election on November 7 was
one of the most u lusunl ever held in
tho United Stales, ,he result not being
definitely known rntll three days af
ter the election, when the final count In
California gave the 13 electoral votes
of that state to President Wilson nnd
gave him vlctorj President Wilson
won 270 votes In the electoral college
und Mr. Hughes 165. Tho vote cast In
the election was urger by several mil
lion than nny e'er cast before In the
United Stntes, President Wilson re
ceiving n plurnl'ty of nbout 400.000 In
the popular vote. The great Increase
In the size of tie vote wos due partly
to the fact thai women voted f
dent In thin elctlon"1n lnrtntKT
Four more itntes voted to adopt
state-wide prohibition In this election.
They were Michigan, Montana, Ne
braska and South Dakota. The Demo
crats retained ontrol of the United
States senate, but as a result of the
close election, neither of tho two ma
jor parties has a majority In the low
er house of the nixt congress. The
bnlnnco of power Is held by five mem
bers not elected ns members of cither
party 1 Socialist. 1 Progressive, 1
Prohibitionist, 1 Protectionist nnd 1
Independent.
DISASTERS ON LAND AND SEA
Thousands of lives wero lost during
the yenr hy the sinking of merchant
vessels nnd warships ns a result of
their being torpedoed by submarines
or blown up by mines. The greatest
, .m "fV accl,Ie,n,s, ,or "? cession of. events, ns one ofi the great
lu J ,h .' urre1II cbr,u,ary "' I signal towers of the western wilder
when tho Irench cruiser Provence ,,,.,.,,,,,,,., .,
wns sunk In the Mediterranean sea,
and 3,130 persons wero drowned.
April 23, more than 1,000 lives were
lost In a collision between a Chinese
cruiser nnd a transport.
February 2, the Japanese liner
DnIJIn wns sunk In a collision and 100
lives were lost.
February 0. the French cruiser
Admiral Charnler was torpedoed and
sunk with a loss of 374 lives. February
10, nine persons were killed when the
iopern house nt Mexia, Tex., was de
stroyed by lire. February 20, great
snow-slides In tho Salzburg alps killed
nearly 100 persons. February 22, ten
persons were killed In a triple col
lision on the New York, New Haven
& Hartford railroad, near Bridgeport.
Conn. Februury 20. nn explosion In
n mine nt Kempton. W. Va., killed 15
men.
March 5, tho Spanish steamer Prin
cipe de Asturlus struck a rock and
sank off the coast of Brazil, with a
loss of 300 lives.
March 28, 20 persons were killed
and muny were Injured In a collision
on tho New York Central railroad
near Clevelund. O.
April 19, Kansas and Missouri were
swept by tornadoes which killed 17
persons. June 5, tornadoes killed 57
persons In Arkansas and 49 In othor
middle western suites. May 8. tho
steamer Kirby sank In Lake Superior
and 20 lives were lost. Mny 15, an
explosion In the Du Pont powder plant
nt Glbhstown, N. J., killed 13 men.
Hundreds of fishermen were lost In
a monsoon off the Ceylon coast,
July 20. July 24, 23 men were killed
by un explosion of gas in a water tun
nel nt Cleveland. O. A trolley wreck
at Johnstown, Pa., took n toll of 25
lives, August 12. August 29. tho Unit
ed States cruiser Memphis was
wrecked by n storm In the harbor at
Santo Domingo nnd 41 lives were lost.
Twenty-seven men were killed Sep
tember 12, when the central spun of n
great bridge being hullt over the St.
Lawrence river nt Quebec, col
lapsed and fell. September IS, a
great dam near Hannwald, Bohemia,
burst and 300 personis wore drowned.
A lire In the Christian Brothers col
lege nt St. Louis. Mo., killed nine men,
October 5, nnd 19 persons lost their
lives In a lire which destroyed n hos
pital at Farnhu'm, Que., October 20.
November 3, the steamers Conneniitru
and Retriever were sunk by a collision
In the Irish sea und 92 were lost. On
November 7, 60 lives were lost when
n Boston "L" car plunged off a bridge.
An explosion nt iinkarltzu, Russlu,
November 21, resulted In the,Ueuth.otLlLJijjiv 4Jt-rt(wrr-tii-trirt,' mw
a-tv persons.
THE LAWMAKERS
Congress was In session continuous
ly from January 4, when It reasseni
bled nfter tho Christians holidays, un
til September 8. Enrly ln the session
n hot tight developed over the Phil
ippine bill passed by the house. Tho
senate adopted the Clarke amendment
providing for the granting of full in
dependence to the Philippines within
from two to four years. May 1. tho
bouse rejected the CI arte amendment
and on August 16 the senate accepted
u compromise pledging Independence
to the Philippines when the Filipinos
nro tit for self-government.
February 2. the houso passed n bill
prohibiting child labor In the manu
facture of products for Interstate com
merce, and late In the session the bill
wa passed by the senate nnd signed
by the president. February 18, the
senate ratified ihe Haitian treaty, pro
viding for American supervision of
the finances and police regulation of
tho republic.
Legislation providing for large In
creases In tho strength of tho army
ami navy received much attention.
Tho navy appropriation hill, as finally
passcii, provided ror the building of
157 fchlps during the next three years.
I'he nrmy bill, ns nussed. rnrrled nn.
prnprlntlons of $313,070,447 for the en-
suing fiscal yenr, nn Increase of $131,.
(HI7.00I over tho amount carried by
the hill us It first passed the house.
(Copyright. 19K. bv the McClura Nwipi,
eer SvivMciU.)
OLDEST LAND ON THE GLOBE
According to Geotoglsti It Is the Sum
mlts of the Siskiyou Mountains
in California,
According to geologists, the summits'
of the Siskiyou mountnlns, thp border
guardians between California' and Ore
gon, constitute one of tho oldest bits
of Innd In the world. They were, as
sert the scientist, growing ir forest
when the greater part of Europe, wns
still beneath tho water. They were
the hillocks of n low, flat island a
hundred miles In length when tho I'u
clllc ocean reached, eastward to the
Rocky mountnlns, remarks nn ex
change. 2lL').tlttf fifillptnna tlncL-mt In fhf
orgresl-.ljdu.a.a!ie. lUuiuliuU'lud .thft
f leviathan of " the ScBiitnresmvnni
iptnres--wnni
about its shores. Finally the Pacific
slope emerged from tho ocean and tlio
Island beenmo the backbone of n
mountain range. Siskiyou tunnel, nt
nn elevation of over -i,000 feet, extends
through a solid bank of ocean shells.
Mid for Its length of 3,100 feet follows
tho shore lino of the nnclent islund,
ns Indicated by tho sandstouo which
oucc formed its beach.
Two miles east of Siskiyou tunuel
Pilot rock rises from tho very verte
brae of the harrier to lift its sheer
walls COO feet ln the nlr. Pilot rock is
a chimney that burned out iwa-hotter
lire than, was ever known of man, It
was one of the flues through which the
molten luvn spouted to form the range.
So terrific wns tho outburst that it left
the strange, fantastically shaped chim
ney Branding' there ngalnst tho sky. It
was to come-Into use, ln the duo pro-
ness, townrd which, on n hazeless day,
the red Hunters nnd warriors for n
hundred miles nround would turn n
watchful eye. Besldos', tho rock wns
the' meeting place of chiefs. They
called It Siskl-you, meaning tho coun
cil ground. Tho result of their delib
erations was wade known from tbi
chimney top.
WAR WRECKS ARE MADE OVER;
Remarkable Operations Being Per
formed on Wounded Soldiers of
European Battlefields.
OpernUons by which important- nnd
oven vitnP parts of the human body,
shattered or completely shot away,
have been-rebuilt or replaced aro now
nmong the commonplace events of the
military hospitals of Europe. In the
hospitals In England the scienco of sur
gery lins readied heights- heretofore
undreamed of, thanks largely to the
efficient direction of Sir Alfred KcoglL
director general of tho British nrmy
medical service. From the beginning
of tho wnr Sir Alfred has Impressed
upon lils subordinates the necessity of
the saving of tho limbs of wounded sol
diers when it is nt nil possible, in order
that tho patients may remain useful
members of tho cominunity nnd not be
come public charges.
Amputations nro now nvoided in
thousands- of cases whero two yours
ago they would have been considered
absolutely necessary. Marvels have
also been accomplished In the new
nervo surgery, which has been devel
oped as a result of the vast multitude
of cases In which tlio nerves have been
severed.
Sir Alfred Ke'ogh, tho director of the
army medical service of Great Britain,
is In his sixtieth year, and is the son
of a Ruscommon barrister. He gained
his first experience in wnr-timo surgery
during the South African conlllet, when
he was In charge of n general hospital.
His work wns so efficient that he was
awarded several medals, and In 1901
became director general of the service.
He-retired In 1900, but returned to the
bend of the medical service when he
war broke our. Sir Alfred has been the
recipient of many honors from medical
and scientific organizations.
He Cares for "Sourdoughs."'
A. O. Shoup, superintendent of the
Alaska Pioneers' home nt Sitka, has
arrived at Seattle, suys the Post-Intel-llgenccr
of that city.
"Tills 'soimloueh'
Mr. Shoup, "and we now have slxtv-
11 vo inmates, most of them old fellows,
who have pioneered: It in almost every
district of Alaska.
"Tlin territory establish d tills homo
for the purpose of caring for tho old!
'sourdoughs' ajKi the Sitka Institution
is reully a havea for these old fellows,,
who have- becoiuu incapacitated from,
further pursuing tlio gcJden rainbow..
Tho average-of theso slxiy-llvo (nmatos.
Is sixty-eight yeurs, arA among., tliein.
wu nave several who aavo beenipron--
peeling la Alaska for forty years,
'In. addition to curing far- tho- la
mates of this homo 1ho territory also
has a pension systoyi which, cures, for
the- ueeds of a number of. others, who
nro not altogether helpless, as. well us
o( the widows iiml needy woisjeu."
Daylight L?av Cuts Gasblttj.
Tho manager of tho Glasgow gas
works In Scotland has Issued a state
ment showing tho effuct of the new
daylight bill upon tJbu gas. consumption
of that city. Lust yeur tho cousump
tlon of gas from six o'clock until mid
night for three, weeks amounted- to
124,0S0,00tt cubic feet. It wus 101..
127,000 tltfs year for the saUo period-
a saving, of 201,004000 cubic feet. Tlila
means nn nvvruge stivlng of nearly n,
million, tet.t each evening. Thero Is an
Increase of Over 12.000.000 cubic feof
'''""WE tho remaining 18 hours of the
dtf due to Iho great demand for g
for industrial purpose j chiefly from
" Bovernuicnt o mMt tlio dCCutindi
of war.
