O!!' r A ",
UNlV i.x .TV
JAf j i );
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
mp'
-707"t- N,
Property and Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 37
CINCINNATI, OHIO, DECEMBER 30, 1916
One Dollar a Year
v ,'2zmzrnr x w
t f .
i
Kroger' s Sluggers Busy. McDwyer of Massachusetts Draws Ten Dollars and Costs, for
Beating Up Two Citizens Who Are Not Members of the Teamsters' Ui 'on. No Arrest
Yet of Geo. Scheid Who Testified Last Week That He Secured Two u ten to Beat Up
Cooney. Scheid Works For Kroger.
If a real insight into' the workings
of Kroner's sluggers is desired by any
citi en of Cincinnati, he should call on
Otto Zicr, wholesale butcher, and get
the facts from him about the Landon
Court outrage.
In the first place, this affair was
widely heralded as a "labor" trouble.
The daily papers run the account of the
affair right under the newspaper account
of the injunction proceedings, and con
veyed the impression that the "lawless"
teamsters were again in the limelight,
"just as the injunction was being issued."
Now this is what happened at Lang
don Court, according to the evidence be
fore Judge Hell. McDwyer and Robin
son, and another individual, hailing from
Dorchester, Mass., Louisville, Ky., and
uumuii, wmo, respectively, lollowed a
coal truck into Langdon Court, driven
by two men, Meyers and Sheraton, not
iiicinhcr.H of the Teamsters' Union,
mid deliberately proceeded to assault
them. Otto Zicr, a disinterested spec
tator, took the stand and testified that
McDwyer tried to pull Meyers off his
truck, and after Meyers ran away lie
knocked voting Sheraton down, and
v)iitc"lic wiis Jutting the prostrate boy
another bystander interfered to" save his
life, Edgar Hill. McDwyer turned his
attention to Hill, and chased him to a
drug store; and then, according to Hill,
McDwyer dragged him out of the drug
store and demanded $10.00 from him.
Albert Morrill, attorney for Krogcr's
sluggers, attempted to show that Mc
Dwyer was only holding Hill "as a wit
ness." McDwyer took the stand and
denied the overwhelming evidence
against himself, but after hearing his de
fense the Court fined him $10.00 and
costs. The Court also gave Meyers and
Sheraton "costs suspended."
JS1O.00 and costs for the man who
Edgar L. Hill, a decent, responsible citi
zen, says dragged him out of a drug
store and demanded $10.00 from him;
even the Kroger slugger from Ironton
admitted that Hill protested to Mc
Dwyer, who was on top of Sheraton
beating him, "don't hit a man who is
down."
$10.00 and costs for the man who
Otto Zicr, a responsible business man,
says deliberately attacked two men, and,
worst of all, slugged one when he lay
on the ground.
Hut the disgusting feature of the ,
whole case is the manner in which the
daily press was imposed upon. . The in
cident was set forth in such a way as
to leave the impression that, notwith-1
standing Judge Mcrrcll's injunction, the I
striking teamsters were indulging in vio
lence, when the evidence before Judge '
Hell satisfied every spectator in the court
room that the men whom Kroger is said
to caused to be turned loose on this
community were simply indulging their
vicious propensities. It's exactly like
the Harry Allison case; Allison, the
Kroger slugger, who beat up John D,
Miller, and was fined a few dollars.
The Teamsters' Union is keeping
close tab on Mr. Morrill, Krogcr's legal
representative. Morrill assured Judge
Merrcll "we don't ask for 'juries we arc
satisfied to submit our cases to the
court ; while the other side constantly
demands juries." A few days later Mor
rill appeared in the Municipal Court and
admitted that he asked for a jury to
try Richard Moloney, another Kroger
slugger, for assaulting Clerk Kreager at
the C, II. & D. Depot. The reason for
this change of front is obvious.
To date no investigations have been
made bv the police of the testimony
given by Krogcr's assistant superintend
ent, Scheid, on the injunction case be
fore Merrcll. Director Fricdlandcris
still protecting Krogcr's property with
police and still refusing the same pro
tection to Union banner carriers.
It will be many a day before Cincin
nati forgets Kroger's sluggers and
many more days before John D. Miller,
Clerk Kreager, Stephen Cooney and
Otto Zier forget Harry Allison, Rich
ard Moloney, Assistant Superintendent
Scheid and Slugger McDwyer.
They Are Still
HARRY DORSEY
Itusincss Agent of the Sheet Melnl Workers.
Harry Dorscy is one of the oldest and ablest leaders in the labor movement.
Dorsey has been a member of organized labor for the past thirty years, and has (
always been active in all forward looking movements that will advance the cause
of unionism.
DISTRIBUTION OF $10,000
IN GIFTS BY FIRM
Mnhlcy & Carew Company Kciiic.ni-
bcr All of Their Kniployes
Nearly Slv Hundred.
Those Who Worked Only During
Holiday Season Included.
Ten thousand dollars was distributed
by the Mabley & Carew company to their
employes on Christmas eve. Nearly 000
men anil women are regularly employed
by the firm and each of these arc re
membered with an amount of money
equal to a week's salary, on Christmas
eve. Clerks who were employed during
the holiday rush were also remembered
with gifts. The Mabley & Carew com
pany were probably the pioneers in pre
senting their employes with substantial
Christmas uifts of money at Christmas
time. It was always the idea of theV
Mabley & Carew company to consider
the employes as business associates and
to show them every consideration.
Women employes were required to work
but nine hours each day during the hol
iday rush, and those that came at the
time the store opened in the morning left
at the usual closing hour, while those
who remained in the evening came to
work late in the morning. Evening din
ners were furnished free to those em
ployes remaining on duty in the evening,
the entire second floor of the Annex be
ing reserved for this purpose.
PHOTO-ENGRAVERS TO EAT
The striking Photo-Engravers will
hold their annual banquet and installa
tion at Hock's Hall, Twelfth and Wal
nut on January 0, 1017.
KROGER'S CASE
Handled lly the Central Labor
Council In Kxeciitlve Sessions.
The Central Labor Council hst
Tuesday night went into executive ses
sion on the Kroger matter.
Realizing that thousand's of wives
and iclatives of union men are still ig
norant of Kioger's style of handling
union labor, ways and means were
adopted to get in touch with all p-irties
that the Council desires to reach in the
matter, which will be "published after
it is accomplished.
The new Kroger Company, working
under the name of The Mutual Teaming
Co., which is only mutual in name, of
fer the scabs in re wages in .some caes
than the union demanded before they
quit work. Still they consider it-'out-ragcous
thai union men demand that
their wives buy their goods elsewhere
CAU MUX SKIOK S-IIOUK DAV.
Street-car employes have organized
to demand an eight-hour day of the next
Ohio General Assembly, W. D. Mahoji,
Detroit, Mich., president of Amalga
mated Association of Street and Elec
tric Railway Employes, said in Cincin
nati last evening. Employes of the street
and electric railways are as much en
titled to an eight-hour day as those of
other railroads, he said.
PIjASTKKIOUS ohoaxik
Joplin. Mo. Plasterers have organized
and applied for a charter from the Op
erative Plasterers' Association, Other
crafts that have recently organized in
this citv are the moving nirturc opera
tors, bill posters and the lathers.
At Work
The Loop Proposal
Of the Capitalists On the Rapid Transit Commission, Is
Accepted By Their Co-Stockholdera of the Traction
Company If a Few Extra Trimmin's Will Be Thrown
In. Bigelow's Paper Says the Commission Is
" Worse Than Incompetent.
There were indications Thursday that
certain civic organizations are planning
to figlrt the proposed contract whereby
the rapid transit loop is to be leased to
the Cincinnati Traction Company.
The Traction Company, as set forth
in a letter from W. Kesley Schoepf, pres
ident, which was in the hands of the
rapid transit commission Thursday, is
willing to accept the lease of the loop
on the terms of the rapid transit com
mission, with a few modifications.
In a supplementary statement, Schoepf
said Thursday : "The company is will
ing to join in working out the problem,
because it realizes how much an interur
ban entrance and rapid transit line means
tf,Cinqmnt.iu ,Vu$k tKwSSsonJ.JS),
willing to recommend" theacecptancc of
tlin f omin"ttpf': nlnn if nirwllfinrl. Tint
tlie plan must be practicable and equit- I
In general, the commission's proposi-
Hon provides :
THAT the Traction Company shall
give up its JO-ycar franchise and take a
new one which will give the city con
trol over service.
On ltcntiil Question.
THAT as rental for the lease the
Traction Company shall pay the city an
amount sufficient to pay the interest and
sinking fund on the $0,000,000 worth of
loop bonds; but that if the loop is oper
ated at a loss during the first few years,
then the rental shall be remitted in whole
or in part during that period.
THAT in return for this privilege the
Traction 'Company shall give tothe city
S3 per cent of the loop's net profits later,
when the loop becomes profitable.
THAT fares shall be ." cents, with
universal transfers to and from the reg
ular street car lines.
THAT the Traction Company shall
be allowed to earn profits on a, valuation
representing the money it has actually
invested.
May Vote in April.
i
i If he rapid transit commission and the
Traction Company reach an agreement
soon, the people will vote on the lease
April 17.
The Traction Company accepts the
above proposals and asks for these
modifications:
THAT before it can be called upon
to divide fl.i-4.'i with the city it must first
be permitted to pay all its fixed charges,
including the percentage to the city, on
its, annual earnings. (The proposition
made bv the commission provides that
before the Traction Company shall
be allowed to take out all its fixed
charges, with the exception of the per-
, ccntage it now pays to ine cny.j
Fixed Amount Sought.
THAT instead of being asked, lo pay
I to the city (i per cent of its gross earn
ings, as it does now, the company be
asked to pay annually a fixed amount,
i not exceeding present payments, esti
mated at $325,000.
THAT the percentage that the coni
I uany shall be permitted to cam shall be
based on what the company earned in
1010. The commission proposed that
this percentage be based on the average
of earnings in the years 1914, 1915 and
1910.
The company claims 191-1 and 1915
were poor years. The commission says
it would be unfair to use the 'boom"
vear of 11)10 as a basis, while bv com
bining the poor earnings of 1914 and
the moderate earnings of 1915 and the
good earnings of 191(1 a fair average is
obtained.
Leaders of organizations planning to
fight the lease say they mainly object to
thctfact that the Traction Company will
not' be required to pay any rent for the
use of the loop during the years the
loop is not profitable.
They point out that when a landlord
leases a building to a merchant the mer
chant must pay the rent, even if the
business is not profitable.
Scrutiny Is Planned.
They also are planning to scrutinize
the proposal that the Traction Company
be allowed to earn on a valuation equal
to the money actually invested.
They say they will oppose any allow-ancc-f
pr juvestment UiatJncluiles money
put into "properly '?iow cxtiiicrJ""Mich as"
horse and cable car lines.
! WORSE THAN "F0RAKERISM"
Under the Foregoing: Head, Herbert
lligelow's Paper, The People's
Press, Says:
For twenty years Cincinnati has been
under the yoke of a shameless law
the Rogers law under which the city
was betrayed and plundered by a street
car plunderbund.
Whenever the subject of the Rogers
law was mentioned the defense was al
ways made that the "revision" clause in
the law redeemed it.
This clause gave the city the right
at the end of 20 years to reduce fares
to the "then cost of carrying passengers."
In their recent recommendation, the
members of the Rapid Transit Com
mission do, in effect, propose that this
one good provision of the Rogers grant
be stricken out, and that the iniquity
of the measure be made perpetual.
This proposal is well calculated to
test the limit of public patience.
They propose to take an average of
the company's net earnings for the last
three years and to capitalize these earn
ings. Thus do they fix an irrcducablc
minimum for the capitalization of the
company.
To fix capitalization that way is a
financial gain. If the Rapid Transit
Commission do not know it, they are
I incompetents. If they do know it, they
1 are worse than incompetent.
1 Such a proposal does not deserve re-
I spectful discussion. It should be treated
with the scorn of an indignant people.
I They say that the city shall continue
to have the power to fix fares, but lim
ited by the right of the company to
I earn all that the present fare produces.
This is worse than the Eoraker scheme
hatched in the Ohio Legislature twenty
years ago. The Commissioners think,
I apparently, that the children are so fas-
! ciliated by that dangling loop that they
i can be persuaded to barter away the
I soul and honor of the city.
BUILDING TRADES COUNCIL
Hold Kegular Meeting Only Itout
Ine Iliislness Transacted.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order with
Vice-President Fischer in the chair.
The .minutes of the previous lheeting
were read and adopted.
A great deal of routine business was
trincnr-tpcl nnd tlip Council adiourned. to
1 meet next Thursday night.
