patriots am a wnnn with Yniu,1 f cintcd
This Is Number 297
- " ww the milliotu of arn r
cornea lmnntr ilrni n & Prrmrr anrl
ipoiopci lor popery. CThu number deali with Rome in Detroit, Florida tnd ia Lincoln, Neb. $e the bun
dle rate cardi on page four and order a big bundle.
IF YOU CANNOT DISTRIBUTE PAPERS
because of ill health or other reasont, send ui a list of name and addresses. We will mail one paper to each ad
dress and chirje you only sixty cents for each 100 names.
i'
ITBeMh
I
NACE
DNMkw so, lata
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINE: THE DEADLIEST MENACE TO FREE INSTITUTIONS AND LIBERTY!
LAW AOTOM DTDZEM F ETODTT
TIE 1 1 TDM
DM
WEEKS'
Unparalleled, Illegal Persecution of Patriot, in Detroit, Who Stands for American Liberty
Rome Through PapaMzed Police Force Would Stifle Free Press
In Detroit Edward F. Jocque, Fearless Patriot Repeatedly
Dragged Into Police Headquarters Suffered Mental and
Physical Persecution Almost Inquisitional In Degree Ufo
Threatened Almost Dally for Selling The Menace
Others Were Similarly Treated Innocent Parties
Wero Also Made to Suffer
it 1
rfM Jmm. tk IMnH Xmlalw Ar
nmU4 111 TIm f.r Mlla Tk Mmm.
By SimtUI ComaUafeM for The M.nr.
I PON my arrival in Detroit.
Friday, December 8th to in
vestigate the reported perse-
cutiou of Edward F. Jocque! PIice of tlie city are subject of the
on the streets, alorp tid of other
ncboys, and erics his wares.
Perhaps in the history of Rome's
ktm ution through an ignorant
pupal j.lice following ami other
dupes of the sovereign on the Tiber,
no one free-horn American citii-n
has ever cxjTrienrvd suih cruel and
altixt uncanny jertvution at that
which liaa been inflicted upon Edw.
F. Jocque in Detroit, Michigan, U.
S. A.
The story he tolJ, and which hni
been abuudantly substantiated by
numerous otlier earnest patriots of
Detroit is a triking ana startling
illustration of Rome' unremitting
policy of crushing and stamping
out at any cost all anti-papal spirit.
Particularly ia this true when it to
happens that the one to express tuis
spirit has been unfortunate enough
aa to hare in any way been con
nected with the Roman Catholic
church. Patriot Jocque was raised
a Catholic and at the present time
has a Catholic uncle on the police
force in Ik-troit. It is said that
more than cightv percent of the
who had been dragged through the
street into police headquarters one
hundred and tan timee in one year
for eel ling The Menace on the
corners, my first duty consisted in
visiting the patriot in question. I
soon located him in hla little home,
urrounded by his family, composed
of a splendid wife and four beau
tiful and bright children from which
setting he radiated a human sun
shine and wholesome patriotic ardor
that at once act at rest any doubts
as to the kind of a man the subject
of our trip might be.
He told the story of his persecu
tion in a simple straightforward
and fearless manner which imme
diately arrested attention and won
my most sincere admiration. It
was almost unbeatable that any
man, in one of America's largest
and most progressive cities, could
hare been subjected to such per
sistent, heartlesa and determined
persecution aa had been this man.
Think of it, patriot! In free
America and in it fifth largest city
a sturdy native-born worklngman,
inspired with the teal that sent
early Christian martyrs to the rack,
dragged through the public streets
into police headquarters one hun
dred and ten times in one year and
five times since the last election
man-handled by Catholic police of
ficers, abused and humiliated by be
ing called every vile and unprint
able name that a foul RomanUt
tongue could frame.
Men, women and children, who
attend the conference and who were
too otten encouraged by ignorant
children of the pope in police uni
(orma, have spit in his face, slapped,
and insulted him, poured cana of
molasses over him and almost daily
threatened his life. And all of this
limply because he sell The Mexace
foreitm sovereign. Poikj Benedict
XV. These ignorant mines of the
confessional, in their blind fanatical
FTER the recent election, word reached us that lawless Roman Catholic, la ths city of Detroit,
were again arresting a well-known newsdealer ia that city, although cot guilty of any violation
of municipal, state, or national statute.
Five time sines ths November election, and over one hundred t-ms daring the previous
twelve months, this industrious, law-abiding citixea had been arrested by the lawless folic in
direct violation of their oat to uphold th constitution.
Recognizing that such practice were dtttructit to frto institution tnd th fundamental democracy of
our land, the Free Proa Defense League and Tni Mis ace decided to send a acholarly, fsarlea and con
scientious investigator to collect evidential data for the lav department of ths League, and to writ ths story
of ths outrage that ths million of readers of this paper might know just what Rom i doing in t sixth
largest city of our land.
The Leaguo determined that this official, anarchy-breeding, irresponsible despotism MUST CEASE,
and that the responsible offenders must be made to answer for their outrage if they long continued them,
even thoug it It necessary to invole th aid of t courts from t lowest to l highest.
Our commissioner was instructed, after he had obtained ths material data of Roman Catholio polios
lawlessness as it related to Patriot Jocque and other Mesace newsdealers, to make Detroit ths first city in
his investigations of ROME'S GRIP ON AMERICAN MUNICIPALITIES investigation that will b
one of the big newspaper sensations of 1917. These papers, dealing with ths papal atranglehold on Detroit.
rae toward one of the former mcm-j W'H hortly follow the almost incredible story of anarchy and lawlessness of Roman Catholic police officers
bers of their faith, have been the and other subject of the pope in Detroit as given on this page of Thk Menace.
most persistent and determined I lt . . n.. t i . t . . . -. . .
i I I. I. im'inu im.. unman linn mi rnnrfin ia in nA it M a . i rumm a . l . i 1 1
.. .. - - - - ..VUw - (Aiuui, uu uw.u") iia iuuu tuio, in dojtoh, ana iia cen
sorship ai being wielded to further Rome' mutership that we find Detroit dominated politically by the papal
machine through papist and pro-papist who, through the fear of Rome' power, do her bidding.
There are two incident in our commissioner's story that call for special notics because they are as
characteristic of intolerant Home as they are utterly antagonistic to our free rrotestant democracy.
The first is the action of the boys of the Roman Catholic parochial achool. In the dyi when Rome wai
dominant in Europe a ahe hope soon to be dominant in America, the Spanish Inquisition flourished, and
then the men who opposed Rome often had molten lead poured into their ear aa a part of the torture inflicted
by the so-called "Holy Inquiaition" of the Roman church. Today we find the products of those bigotry pro'
motinj, anti-American, Roman parochial schools urrounding an honorable American citizen who wa lawfully
rarryir.g forward his trade and pouring molasses on hi clothe. Rome ia not yet dominant in America, and
time havo somewhat changed since sho canonized King Ferdinand III of Castile, and inserted in the breviary
these words of praise of him. " permitted no eretie to drell in his kingdom, and with hi own hands
brought wood to the stake for their burning." Yes, time have changed, BUT THE SPIRIT OF ROME
HAS UNDERGONE NO CHANGE, and the papal children, doubUess inspired by their priestly upcriora,
here gave a startling present-day exhibition of the same spirit of persecution, intolerance, and reasonless
bigotry that wai in evidence when Rom had ths power to pour molten lead into the ear, instead of law.
losaly pouring molasses on the clothes of the man brave enough to stand for freedom of speech and pre.
The second point we wish to notice i the persecution of sn elderly, honored German-American citixen
who it appear had taken no active part in the fight to give ths people ths opportunity to hear the aide of
the Roman question that the hierarchy did not wish them to hear. This peaceable, honorable citizen wa
marked for destruction because he chanced to be the father of Jocque's wife, and he had rented the upper
room over his store to his on-in-law a a residence. Againt thi turdy, faithful, patriotic citizen who
during twenty years had carried on a successful business in the city, Rome directed with all the power at her
command, the cruel, persecuting, despotic, un-AmCrican, papal boycott for the purpose of destroying and
bankrupting him. now like the Rome of historic past I The Rome which not only seized and tortured and
destroyed the supposed heretic, but also his family and friend who fell tinder suspicion. Here again we
find the ample verification of Rome's oft repeated boast that ahe never changes. She is th tarn cruel,
intolerant, bigoted, r.uilign power as of old, and the1 inhuman and effective effort to bankrupt thi honorable
patriotic American cititen not only show the menace of Romanism, but reveals how wde it th gulf be
tween th monarchial libertyhating papal machine and our free tolerant American democracy.
persecutors,
Insulted By Priest
Edward F. Jocque was tarn in
the city of Detroit on May th,
1881, of French Catholic parents.
He was christened in the Catholic
faith, attended Catholic schools and
was a regular communicant of the
church until he was twenty nine
years of ago. It was then he mar
ried a Protestant girl and engaged
a Protestant mininter to perform
the marriage ceremony. Shortly
after his marriage he met his late
"father confessor" who took him to
task for being married by a Protes
tant "minister and castigated him
as follow: "Well, son, of course you
know you are living in prostitution
with the woman you now call your
wife and your children will be the
illegitimate spawn of your illicit in
tercourse.'" The insult cut deep into the very
fibre of this sensitive younjr man
and the reflection upon "the chastity
of his young wife made it almost
impossible for him to keep hands
off the throat of the sanctimonious
hypocrite in spite of the teachings
of his whole life. However, after
the sting had worn off he began to
think and then he began to study.
The logical result of open-minded
investigation soon brought him to u
full realization of what an awful
dupe he had been. But the thing
that most startled him and, as the
saying is, brought him up-standing,
was the realization of the grave
menace that confronted America's
free institutions bv the hierarchy of
the Roman Catholic church. Then
he began to agitate among his
MM. JOCQU1 SSIXUH3, TBS USJtACS)
friends and Catholic neighbor try
ing to tell them what he had
earned. This soon brought down
upon his head the condemnation
and hatred of all of Rome' bigoted
minion who knew of him or his
work, as ia always the case when a
fearless victim breaks from the
stultifying influence of ber teach
ing. Begin to Bell "Menace"
In February, 1914, Patriot Jocque
quit hia job at the Dodge Bros.
Automobile Works, where he was
employed as an expert metal pol
isher at $5.00 per day, and took up
the work of selling The Mexack
on the streets of Detroit. Then be
gan a persecution such a Roman
pharisaism only, could execute.
The day following 'his intro
duction of Tub Mevace on the
corner of Woodward and State
streets, the most prominent comer
of the city, he waa grabbed by a
Roman Catholic policeman named
Schmansky, and dragged away to
police headquarters where, after be
ing roundly abused, was told that
he would Lave to positively quit
selling The Menace on the streets
of Detroit. lie was then turned
loose. Five times during that first
week Patriot Jocque was humiliated
by being accosted by a burly Roman
policeman and hustM tsij to po
lice headquarters amid the jeer and
taunts of the loyal subjects of the
papal sovereign who had been and
are taught to hats that freedom of
speech and press thst is a funda
mental principle of our liberal de
mocracy and ORGANIC LAW of
our land.
Finding that fear of police head
quarter had no effect on thi fear
less defender ) free press and free
speech there vras instituted an ag
gressive campaign of personal abuse
and rillification. H was accosted
by burly red-neck with the stamp
of Rome on their bullet head and
in their bleary eye who, with vile
denunciation, would threaten his
life. Old women of the faith would
call him "a dirty pup" and "a faith
less loafer" ana other epithet.
Young prospective nun would
sneeringly spitvn his face and tome
deliberately dapped him in the
mouth.
Perhaps, however, the most des
picable idea these xealots conceived
wa that of i" jitinj and encourag
ing the children of parochial
schools to joiif in the persecution.
It wss almost k daily scene on his
corner for these youngsters, trained
and environed $n a near-by Roman
Catholic schoov to rather 'round
him after classes had been dismissed
and haras him in all manner of
ways. Th most aggravated being
the pouring of molasse over him
from new can of the sticky sub
stance provided, probably with cool
deliberation by older head in the
Roman Catholio church, quit like
ly by priests in charge of ths school
which these young tormentors at
tended. After ths Tils and humili
ating episode ths victim of this
popish wrath wu then again
dragged into polios headquarters
but immediately ordered to "get
out" as th sticky molasses wss
dripping from hi clothing over the
carpets snd floor of ths place.
Laity Persecution Encouraged
As stated abovs such of this per
secution a wa not directly perpe
trated by Detroit ignorant papal
police force upon ths body of this
heroic patriot, was inspired, en
couraged, or at least sanctioned by
them. During the most flagrant
and iniquitous assaults blue-coated
policemen would stand near the
scene and often smile broadly st the
most rancorous and vicioua aggres
sion upon the peace and constitu
tional right of thi law-abiding
American citizen.
With fortitude and composure that
has been none short of the spirit of
thousands who have gone to the
rack and the stake in ths past at
the behest of Rome, he endured their
- jatfir
fppl
A Mmm Mm IUtl Amrt tt UMUmt Tit. Ft. Drawa Frra r i r"i
sneers, their insult, their abuse,
their arrests and all the other ds-
frees of persecution inflicted upon
im with a serene fearlessness that
ha won th admiration of all not
hitched to the papal wagon who
know of him and hia admirable
work.
Character Assassination
No stone was left unturned to
destroy Jocque snd banish The
Menace from the public streets in
Detroit Finding that physical fear
was not a part of Mr. Jocque' na
ture and that insults and abuse
were met with smile and Christian
forbearance these representatives of
a foreign potentate, ably assisted by
a Romanized newspaper press, next
resorted to a campaign of character
blackening. Stories were circulated
after being manufactured out of
whole cloth that reflected upon the
personal life and habita of this pa
triot. And thi in spits of the well
known fsct that Edward F. Jocque
bear an unblemished, sober and
enviable reputation. II ha worked
since boyhood, been a good provider
for hi wife and family ana is now
paying out on a beautiful little home
where he reside.
Among th most flagrant at
tempts to destroy his reputation was
one which grew out of sn incident
that happened in th early winter
of 1915. He wu being man-handled
and abused by a brutal police offi
cer who was arresting him when a
young Jewess who hsppened to be
passing and witnessed the whole
disgraceful affair, entered her pro
test against such unnecessary abuse
and high-handed procedure on the
part of the officer of the law. She
wa ordered to move on by the gal
lant (?) policeman. She refused,
basing the refusal upon her consti
tutional rights as sn American citi
zen. The arrogant son of Rome
thereupon took her into custody also
and lodced the complaint asrainst
both : "Disturbing the peace." They
were thrown into jail but were soon
bailed out by patriots who learned
of the affair.
The press of the city, all more or
lea controlled by the Roman church
in reporting ths affair, particularly!'
played up in th headlines. "Thatf
Edward F. Joqus had been'arreatedi
WITn A WOMAN." InthumanJ
ner th poisonous impression wasfl
left with the resder, who failed ton
read the whole article, that Jooqu
had been caught in some disgraceful
and compromising position and had
been arretted for carnal delinquent.
cy or some similar offense.
Persecution By Rom' Boycott '
Lewis Stahl, father-in-law of
Patriot Jocque, conducted a meat
market on oue corner of th city for
twenty years, lis wu a substantial, x
honest and sturdy business man of
the community. Patriot Jocque j
and his family had rooms over thai
store and to this address he had hi
three thousand copies of The Men
ace shipped each week. The lonj
arm of Romish hatred not atisfiel
with the heartless persecution of the'
young man also reached out after
the old man who wu so unfortunate. ,
u to b hi fathecr in-law.
Old Spirit of Borne Za Evidence) j
In Just one year following Tnsjf
Menace activity of the young mpa,
who had married his daughter, Lewtw
Stahl had lost 63 percent of hiT
business and in a year and a halfj
after twenty years of sncceesfur
operation, hia shop wu closed t'
satisfy his creditors snd he waj
turned out broken-hearted andaJ
bankrupt .
And her we have an object le-
on of th power of papal influence
ovct those who unfortunately io
quire its disfavor.
Other Victim
And Edward F. Jocqu hat not)
been alone the recipient of the fren-'
xied and bitter persecrtion of these
emissaries of papal sortrijnty in
Detroit. The same pernicious as-,
saults have been meted out to all i
who have had the temerity and
American fearlessness to attempt to
sell copies of The Mexace in this
city. None have had it heaped upon '
them so thick or so often or with '
such palpable determination t.
