THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
HAHHK. VKUMOXT. SATUKDAY, DKCKMHKK 30, 1910.
MUCK. OXK CEXT.
VOL. XX - NO. 211.
ENTENTE REPLY
WILL DEMAND
GUARANTEES
PAROLE REVOKED.
Because Germany, Having in 1914 Pro
claimed Its Contempt For Treaties,
Cannot Pretend to Obtain Same Con
ditions as Powers Respectful of Sig
natories '
NO BASIS REMAINS
FOR PEACE PARLEYS
v
Outline of Reply Presented by rans
Newspaper Also Declares That the
Legitimate Reparations and Restitu
tions Demanded, by Lloyd-George
Be Made
Edward Clayton cf Poiiltney Must Serve
Sentence.
Rutland. Dec. 30. Edward Clayton of
J Poiiltney, who was sentenced to the
bouse of correction in lull from Rutland
' n.mnt.i Krtii.t mi u ..1 n.i r,f blimtlirV in
the night time, ha mi extra period of
I two years to servo- in the same institu
tion because of a slight indiscretion on
his irt, hy wav of g-t tinp Intoxicated.
Yesterday Sheriff K. C. Fish of Went
Rutland imparted thin New Year's greet
ing to Clayton by reciting to him a war
rant Waned by Gov. Charles W. Gates.
Clayton was found guilty of burglary
in Rutland county court at- the Septem
ber term, ll'll, and sentenced to tho
house of correct inn on Dee. l.V 1011. for
not Ice than two and not morn than
four year.
At the expiration of hi short term, he
was paroled by C.ov. Allen M. Kletelier
and had been at liberty until Oct. 11 of
thin year, when he fill into the hand of
the Rutland police, very much under the.
Influence of liquor. Tie was tried in city
court on a charge of intoxication, second
offense, and sentenced to the county jail
for 87 da vs.
Naturally he did not feel like report
ing his "good behavior" to the probation
officer on house of correction stationery,
wo a warrant was incited by Gov. Hates,
recommitting the man to prison for the
remainder of his sentence, or two years.
Clayton was notified of the plans of
the officials yesterday, when the papers
were served by Sheriff Fish. Clayton
ha been iii city court under tho name
of Joseph Kdwarda, according to the po
lice records.
EXPLANATORY
NOTE HELD UP
Pres. Wilson Said to Have
Sent Second Statement
to Belligerents
GERMANY'S LETTER
CHANGED PLANS
NOT SAVED BY WAR.
on
Nation's Virility is Not Dependent
Fighting.
Xew York, Deo. 30. War enthusiasts,
who maintain that a nation will lose its
inherited, virile virtues by going to war,
are not, supported in their theory by
, I-,.. a tu- iK.c.' nnnroe trt tViA tlprman note of Dec,
ram, uec. oue-inc u : " .,, . llM5arlPfi present biological knowl.dge in the opln-
12 will be handed Ambassador Sharp to-night; and will be pubiisnea ,;m of Pr Jttwjueil ljO0bt h,ail of the
to-morrow, says Petit Parisien. It is long and sets tortn again ine Z!
responsibility of the central empires lor tne European cumu lo
tion. It insists on the legitimate reparations and restitutions de-
the
tressed
the biological section of the American
Association for tlie Advancement of
.v... - - - . , , j Science on " iio oev and tne war ' laie
manded by the entente, as outnnea oy rremrei - i yesterday. He contended that "the stray.
it also says that Germany, by failing to lormuiate proposals iur
peace, removes in advance any basis for pour parlers.
The note seeks to suggest that the Berlin cabinet, having pro
claimed in 1914 its contempt for treaties, cannot pretend to obtain
the same conditions as the powers respectful of signatories and
must offer guarantees.
Because It Showed That Ger
many Was Not Influenced
by "Misconceptions"
Berlin, Dee. 20. rla London, Dec. 30.
It has been learned that a few days ago
President Wilson sept a second note, ex
planatory of tho brat, to "tho central
powers and the entente nations. This
note, has not been presented.
The reason for withholding the second
note is mid to lie that the German re
ply received in the Interim showed that
the government had not been influenced
by ''misconceptions regarding the purpose
and aims , uf President Wilson's step,
which an unfriendly press in both camps
attributed thereto." '
THOUGHT SMALL
SAW THE BODY
Of His Wife as It Lay Burn
.ing in the Cellar of
Their Cottage
WITNESS TOLD
IN MURDER TRIAL
Another Testified,, About
Small's Contrivance to
Illuminate Clock
LANSING SILENT
DRIVEN FROM TRENCHES.
Germans Could Not Stand Trench Bombardment.
Paris, Dec. 30. The war office commu
nication issued last night says:
"Between the Aisne and the Oise our
artillery carried out a destructive nre on
CHURCH ORDERED CLOSED.
Because Boy Having Scarlet Fever At
tended Services.
gle for existence," and "survival of the
fittest'' are no "laws of nature" in the
sense in which the terms "law" is used
in the exact sciences.
"The biology of which the war enthu-
isiasts make use is essentially antiquat
ed," declared Dr. I.oeb, "and so we need
not be surprised to lind that they consid
er war to be based upon wh: t they call
the "biological law of nature,' the 'strug
gle for existence' or 'the survival of the
fittest.'
"These war enthusiasts maintain that
Wben Quuied Abont Story of Second
Note to Bslligerents.
Washington, D. C, Dee. 30. Secretary
Lansing to-day declined to discuss the
report that a second note, explaining the
president s peace note, had been sent to
the belligerents. Other officials, however,
said they were sure no second note had
been sent.
IT. S. GOVERNMENT
EXPLAINS FIRST NOTE
Bellows Falls, Dec. 30. Dr. It. u. uW ,tUM ffir its urvival. We do not need
of Burlington, representing the state to grpie whether tho arts committed in
board of health, came here yesterday a eate of homicidal emotion are the real
afternoon and ordered that no services ' .
nifjiufflt inns fif fVniM rrn U't
tho reuion of :be held in the Methodist Episcopal church . '
Quennevieres. Our patrols penetrated to-morrow. It was learned Thursday that ;vjriiitv eft behind by invading or re-
Says There Were Three Chief Points on
Which It Was Based and Is Sur
prised at Misunderstanding
By Entente Press.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 30. The
American government, it became known
authoritatively to-dav, believes there are
unless a nation engages occasionally injtliree principal, points to Its note to the
war it will lose all those virile "vir- belligerents and Is surprised that they
nave not been more clearly understood,
particularly by the press of the entente.
These points, taken in the order of
Ossinee, X. If, Dec. 30.- Further testi
mony regarding the visit of Frederick L.
Small to the ruins of his cottage at
Mountain View, where he is alleged to
have killed his wife anil (ired the house
to conceal the crime, was given to-day at
Small's trial on the charge of murder.
K. C. Conner also identified as Small
handwriting the inventory found in the
latter's bag. No mention is made in the
list of jewelry. Mrs. Connor identified
the jewelry found in the ruins as belong
ing to Mrs. Small.
Dr. John L. Bacon, a Southboro physi
cian, told of an electrical device arranged
by Small to illuminate a clock in his
home at that place. Frank A. Ferron,
who was with Small at the ruins, testi
fied he thought Small saw the burning
bodv of his wife in the cellar.
CRIBBAGE CLUB DANCE.
So Great a Success That It Will Be Re
peated Annually.
Cribbage players of Barre who are af
filiated with the Barre Cribbage club
made merry in Worthen hall last even
ing, the occasion being the first annual
jollification of the club. With what suc
cess the affair waj attended one may
judge from the fact that the club at an
impromptu business session this morn
ing voted to complete the calendar of
each succeeding year with a repetition of
last night's gathering. Forty couples
were in attendance and the guest list in
cluded a number of cribbage enthusiasts
who have yet to enroll in the organiza
tion. The" affair took the nature of a
dancing assembly, but there was an in
terestinar musical program and at the in
termission a substantial buffet luncheon
was served.
Among those who contributed vocal so
los were the following: Mrs. Thomas In-
! gram, Mrs. Joseph Will, Miss Elizabeth
COW OWNERS -GET
TOGETHER
Meetings Were Held To-day
in Nearly Every County
in New England
CO-OPERATION IS
BEING SOUGHT
PROPOSED RULES
FOR LEGISLATURE
Revision Hat Been Completed and the
Matter Will Be Put in the Hands
of the Legislature at Onoe.
Tho committee created by tho joint
resolution adopted by the general assem
bly of 11)15 to revinu the joint rules, the
rules of the Senate, of the Iloti-c and the
manual uf pai'iameiitary practice as con
tained in the l esent legislative manual
ami make. reKrt to the 1017 general as
sembly, lias completed its work ami
copies of tho report will be mailed to
the members of tlie general assembly to
day. Tho committee was made up of
Hale I. Darling, president of the Senate,
tiny M. I'age, eiretary of the Senate,
lohn K. Weeks, speaker of the IIouso,
and Hurry A. Black, clerk of the House.
In formating the draft of rules, the
committes endeavored to re-arrange the
existing rules as to bring into proximity
tliose provisions relatine to the same
subject matter and to separate each sub- I
iert. mutter into .liviuWiriu with amimnrt- I y
J ' - - -i i - -r-
ate titles; to iiicorjHirate Mirh amend
ments to the rules as will in the opinion
of the committer expedite the business
of the gpiieral assembly or furnish oppor
tunity fur more careful consideration.
The more important changes in pro
cedure provided for by the proposed rules
are a revision of the methods of commit
tee work, a calendar for the entire day
rather than for eacli half day, a plan
to avoid recalling bills from the governor.
more convenient form for bills and a
mora logical time of rending them, a defi
nition of the. functions and course of a
joint resolution, obviating the necessity
for many formal resolutions and a 're
striction on useless reconsideration.
The report suggests as a means of a
revision of the methods of committee
work a slight re-arrangement of com-
miffAna anil iWn utuilitmn nf liiint eom-
mittees. nrovision for stated regular I J"Tlln secretary conierence.
-
Results to Be Taken Befo
New England Milk Prr
ducers' Association y
enemy trenches which had been badly
shattered. They had been evacuated by
the Germans.
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
enemy violently bombarded in the after
noon our posilloivs between the Meuse
and Avocourt. We stopped several at
tacks that were attempted by means of
grenades at various points on this front."
RUSSIANS LOSE TRENCHES.
Fighting in Carpathians Goes in Favor of
Germans.
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 30. In the
course, of heavy fighting on the Transyl
vanian front yesterday Teutonic troops
entered entrenched Kusso-Rumanian po
sitions and pushed further ahead not
withstanding strong counter attacks, the
war office announces. In Rumania the
Russians and, Rumanians nre being driv
en back along the whole front between
Mount Ain and the Danube.
FRENCH ATTACKS FAILED.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. James Cow of Liberty street left
this noon for South Royalton, where she
will spend the week-end and Xew Year's.
Mrs. Doris Ordway, who has been vis
itinsr friends and relatives in Claremont,
N. H.,-for several days, returned to the
city yesterday.
k T t.' ,. .. ., , i i 4 t,;a li m in
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 30. Several , ... ..:,.. t,,;. mirl ftjT
attacks were made by the French yester- . . , . B . the
day on the Verdun front, says to-day s - on business.
Berlin Says That Germans Hold Posi
tions Just Captured.
a boy suffering from scarlet fever h'! j treating armies.
attended services at tne cnurcn last. ,-un- .ti. oj,,.i;.. rw,v,t n, mr
day and Monday and Dr. A. L. Miner, ! M ,u WlvpPr milv h. mpant- !lV these arrangements tie made a a guarantee
who is acting health officer in the b- ' . ... ,;.' if ..ra-.V;,.,..! i! "gainst similar contest, in the future.
sence of nr.. J. ff. nm, asKeu uie Jthis form 0f war implies an unproven
their importani; from lUa administration ;to h(,n Al,jern. the Peterhead
viewpoint, are: First, the fear that the ' mic George Tavlor, William Melvin,
posijion of the neutral nations lie ren- j lex(ln(ler i,.Ha. William Still, William
dered altogether intolerable if the war ; R ,. , Joh Watkin. William
continue. ,econa, tne suggestion mm
board of health to investigate.
and apparently false biological ussninp-
At Dr. Ladd's suggestion the church . narm.y,"that functions not pra
11 1 - iL . l.t.r ...An.4- a si. I .launml " ......
will be thoroughly swept and cleaned
and the cushions sprayed with an anti
septic. EDWARD STRAUSS DEAD.
Composer of Dance Music Passed Away
in Vienna.
Berlin, Dec. 29, via London, Dec. 30.
A Vienna dispatch announces the death
of Edward Strauss, a composer of dance
music. . '
report from army headquarters. All ef
forts to retake positions in this sector
were repulsed by the Germans. .
UNLAWFUL PRICE BOOSTING.
Reported After Conference of Federal
District Attorneys.
Xew York, Dec. 30. After a conference
!i-r yesterday of federal district attor
neys from Maine to West Virginia who
uuarrv
Thomas t arter, who has oecn visiting
friends on Summer street during the past
two weeks, left to-day for Burlington,
where he will spend a few days while
en route to his home in Middlebury.
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Holland of North
field were among the business visitors in
the city yesterday. While in Barre they
stopped at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Fred M. Jempton of iSotith Alain street-
ticed or organs not used will disappear
in the offspring."
SISTER OF HOLY CROSS DEAD.
Mary St. Francis Regis Succumbs at St.
Albans 24 Years Old.
St. Albans. Dec, 24. Sister Mary St.
Third, proposals that means be found of
comparing the concrete peace terms of
both sides.
The last point aroused the most com
ment. The administration, however, it
was learned to-day, thought the sugges
tion for an arrangement to preserve fu
ture peace would attract more attention
among the entente than it apparently
has and furnish the means through which
these nations could enter with perfect
propriety into a serious peace discussion.
If such arrangements could be made the
rrancis Hegls of the Msters ot tne 'lo'y ' administration feels that there would be
Cross, died yesterday at the Sherwood ; n() grrmtKt for ft fCRr that agreements
sanatorium following an operation. She over th(( tenng n)gfp between the bellig
was 24 years old. A requiem mass was ! erent8 woia not be kept after the war.
sung at the Holy Angels' church thiSU wag panted out that such a fear has
morning, Rev. L. R. Desroehers officiat-1 one 0f tjm miljn objections of the
ing. The body was taken to the mother
house at St. Laurent, near Montreal,
where the funeral services will be held
Saturday morning.
Sister" St. Francis Regis is survived
by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. .James
Walsh of Montreal, and a brother. James,
who is now on his way to England to
fight with the allies. She had been in
St. Albans for two years.
DIED AT AGE OF
James Pirie of Graniteville passed
..' .. . . ,. . ' llimrrl, ll rt f.ilp t.AaV U-'hllf. .11 VAllfe
are lnvesturatme tne nign cost, or living i ."" -v .., -----
TO JMi!StOM, line lie ill join ivi;:. iim,
who hns been visiting there since Christ
mas. They will return to Barre soon
after Xew Year's.
A. Columbo will leave this evening for
Xew" York, where he will visit relatives
until Wednesday, when he sails on a
liner to Genoa. Italy, there to join his
wife, who has been visiting at her former
statement was issued by George W.
Anderson, United States district attor
ney at Boston in charge of the govern-
Ment's inquiry Into food and fuel prices, ;
declaring that huswess men wno hola or
detain cars 'unnecessarily-and unfairly
cro under just suspicion." "
"If it 15 found.' the statement said,
",o u.-1i flpfonfinn in a nart nf a pom
bination to create scarcity, enhance borne during tho past few months. After
price and share in profits we do not spending the winter :n his homeland, he
beliere that juries will look vith lenient will return to Barre. Mrs. Colombo will
eyes or. such action during these times. accompany him back.
J. W. Butterfleld, district school super-
N0RWAYS INTEREST SHOWN intend. nt of northern Washington coun-
ty, returned yesterday to his home in
Cain in "Durable Peace" and In Shorten-; Cabot, after attending" the Tufts college
inj of tht War. 'glee and mandolin clubs concert at the
r- r Ispaulding assembly hall Thursday even-
Waabir.?tort, 15. C, Dec. 3d, The note . Mrg Rutterficld returned to Cabot
from the Norwegian g overr.ment ei- )(.t wninRf ,fter spending the dav at
pr.--.sing lirciy interest in President Wil- th ,ioal(, of hn broth(.T 0 Holl'ister
son's propoiai -lookup toward the es-;of Mprch,nt street.
laMisjment of durbie eee and j
-,!eent STmpathv" with all the efforts The auction sa e conducted by the I.
to shorten" tU wa"r, is as follows: IVrry Real EsUte agency with P. A.
It is with the most lively interest'?? et'"c " ' 'l'" V"l
that the Norwegian government has wis farm between North Montpclier and
Wn.eJ of the proposals which the prei- Calais yesterday afternoon was well at
J.,nt of the Cnited State has jut mado ,tend.-d and proved to be on of the most
with the purpose ef f.e'litating measures successful mid-winter auctions aeld in
Lxikin toward the esUblifhment of a : that sertion in a long time. Vrm mi
durable peace while at the Mm time chinery and the other personal property
coking to avoid snr interference which brought very satisfactory prices, the en
would cause pain to legitimate fcelinr. . '" property wiling for $7,0(10. Jersey
"Tm Norwegian government would sold as high as 77 apiet, and yeax-
consid.r iteif failing in its duties to-;lmgs and two-year-olds were -knocked
ward its own peopi and U.wsrd all hn-'down" at p.od prices. Ensilsre went at
n.auitv if it did not express it deepest a little over M a ton. Guy Martin, who
srwpathT with all cflorts whkli could i now manager of one of the Vermont
eontribii'Ja to p-t r. end to the ever in- ' Marble Co. farms in Prortor, bid off the
rrea.ing rufferirg ?rA the ral and ma- fins at f4.0. Mr. Martin will take
Hs ;. It H everv hope thst the pn-ion of the place on March 1. 1917.
irfitia'.ie of Pre-.ideot Wilson will ar- . Mr. Ianiels will n.ove to North Mort
nvc av a wult woriiy of the high pur- j pelier, where ke has inUTets in the
m wk'rh '.wmirmA it." nulla.
Mrs. Elmira Bucknam of Pittsford Mills
Was 111 Short Time.
Pittsford. Deo. 30. Mrs. F.lmira Buck
nam died at her home at Pittsford Mills
yesterday after a short illness. She was
horn in Rutland 98 years airo last April
lonrl hnA ivrA in PiftwforH hetween lifl and
70 years. Jn 1844 she was married to
James Bucknnm of this place.
Mrs. Bucknam is survived by two
daughters, Mrs. Alice Newton and Miss
Marion A. Bucknam of this place, with
whom she lived. The funeral will be
held nt the house at 1:30 o'clock Sunday
afternoon.
MEADOW BROOK DANCE.
"Old
Year Farewell" Was Held Last
Evening.
Eighty couples attended the "ojd year
farewell" dance of the Meadow Brook
Golf club in Clan Gordon hall last even
ing. The assembly was one of a series
arranged by the club for the winter
months and an enjoyable evening was
spent. A local orchestra played for the
dancers and at intermission a number
of the younger members assisted in serv
ing a luncheon. The hall was attractive
ly decorated for the occasion. The com
mittee included the following members
of the club: George Brands. Arthur
Pirie. Joseph Fraser, Harry Livendale
and Alexander Kesson.
entente to entering discussions of peace.
MRS. PRARIO'S FUNERAL
Was Held Friday Afternoon, with Inter
ment in Catholic Cemetery.
Funeral services for Mrs, Rosa Prario
of North Main street, whose death on
Wednesday evening followed a paralytic
shock, were held in St. Monica's church
Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock, the parish
priest. Rev. P. M. McKenna, officiating.
Countrymen of the deceased, headed by
D. Valz, acted as an escort while the
body was being removed from Mrs.
Prario's apartment in the Sanguinetti
building to the church and afterward ac
companied the remains to the Catholic
cemetery in Beckley street, where inter
ment was made. There were numerous
ttoral tributes.
BURIAL AT ST. SYLVESTER'S.
Funeral of Anthony Donahue Was Held
at Graniteville.
The funeral of Anthony Donahue, an
Mitchell acted as floor manager while the
dancing was in progress and in an inter
val between dances Mr. Brodie contribut
ed an original sketch in which his wll
known terpsichorean proclivities and
singing were featured. AH of those who
contributed to the program were liberal
ly applauded and none was allowed to
retire from the platform without an en
core. A variety of dainty edibles was
included In the luncheon menu, which
was appetizingly served by a committee
consisting of MM. ilarper .vntcnen, mtb.
Charles A. Keith and Mrs. John Jarvis.
The committee in charge of the affair
was made up as follows: George Taylor,
chairman, Charles A. Keith, secretary
and treasurer, William Melvin, Alexan
der Reid. John Jarvis, Harper Mitchell
and Alexander Anderson.
GIRLS WERE LEADERS.
In Two Departments at Giddard Semi
nary During Fall Term.
The rank list for the fall term at God
dard seminary was announced to-day by
Principal Hollister, showing that Franees
McWilliams of Graniteville led, in the
regular course with a percentage of 0(1.(1,
while Josephine Lucchina of Barre was at
the head in the commercial department,
with 1)6 per cent. The two lists are as
follows:
Regular Course.
1. Frances McWilliams, Graniteville,
OO.fl; 2, Everett Wallis. Waitsfield, A.VS;
3, Shirley Gibson, Meriden, Conn., 05.7;
Rachel Hollistcr, Barre, 0..4; it, .lulia
Stanton, Paterson, N. J., fl.".3; 6, Gladys
Hassam, Bethel. !5.l? 7, Doris Morrison,
Graniteville, 04.8; 8. Anna Turner, War
ren, 03.5; 0, Carroll Strong, Montpclier,
03.2; 10, Eloise Bailey, Graniteville, 03.
Commercial Department.
1. Josephine Lucchina, Barre, Oti; 2,
Mildred Stowe, Barre, 05.7; 3. Annie Pe-
dnzzi. Barre, 04.8, Christena Pirie, Gran
iteville, 04.8; 4, Lena Seaver, Williams
town, 94.7; 5, Oscar Boyea, Barre, 04.5,
aged resident of Graniteville, wU Esther Bianchr.llarre, 04.5 Vivian Baker,
MANIAC OVERPOWERED.
After Having Shot a Pnysician in Balti
more. Baltimore. Dec- 3" After defying for
i hours efforts of score of policemen
and a number of residents ol oovsns, a
ubin-U. to t-ske him. tJeorce C. Gantz,
32 years old. who in a fit of insanity yes
terday morning shot bis physician, Pr.
Gerge A. licking, was captured late
rrMerita v.
r. H.x-kintr was wounded in the arm
and shoulier, h-it not rku!y. tisnti"
death Wednesday evening removed a for
mcr well known merchant of Barre Town,
was held in St. Sylvester's church this
morning at 9 o'clock, the parUh priest.
Rev. Joseph Turcot, officiating. The
bearers were: Peter Murphy, Joseph Le
tonrneau. William Mitchell, John G. Mo.
lod, William Earl and Frank Mitchell.
There were many floral tributes. Inter
ment was in St. Sylvester's cemetery,
near South Barre.
FOUR ENGINES DAMAGED.
In $40,000 Roundhouse Fire at New
port. Newport, Dec. 30. Fire broke out in
the lioton A. Maine roundhouse yester
day and destroyed one section of the
building. The section contained seven
engines, three of whieh were removed
without injury. The fire was of unknown
origin and at one time assumed alarm
ing proportions, but was subdued tiefore
spreading. The loss was about O.fsK).
Barre, 04.5; 6, Emma Corti. Barre, 94.3;
7. Marian Martin, l'lainfield, 94.2. Carrie
Calcagni. Barre, 94.2, Earle Winter,
Barre, 94.2; 8, Lillian Halsall, Barre,
94.1; 9. Angie Movalli, Barre, 93.9; 10,
Olive Smith. Barre, 93, Christens Smol
lett, Barre, 93, Angelina Locarno, East
Barre, 93.
LAWYERS' PLANS FOR TUESDAY.
Annual Meeting, Formal Exercises and
Then a Banquet.
The arrangements for the annual meet
ing of the Vermont Bar association at
Montpclier next Tuesday are practically
completed. The business session will be
held at the county courthouse beginning
at 3 o'clock and will be followed bv the '""
meetings of committees, provision for
committee record and an extension of
the powers of the committee on appropriation.
It is proposed to combine all the work
for the day in one calendar and to con
tinue in seKd iin until noon and to con
vene again at 1:30 o'clock, by which
method it is believed work can be com
pleted by three o'clock and the remain
ing hours devoted to committee work. It
U proposed to call the calendar at tho
beginning of the day, at which time
members will indicate those matters like
ly to give rise to debate or amendment.
It is believed that this will forward
much routine business.
Many times in the course of a session
errors which require amendment are dis
covered by the executive department. It
has been the practice for years to recall
such bills from the governor, amend
them, and return them to him or upon
reconsideration to refuse their passage.
This method is entirely extra-legal, as
stated in the reportof the. committee,
ami there Is grave question but that it Is
entirely illegal. In the opinion of the
committee if a copy of the measure goes
to the governor and t lie original is with
held for three days, there w ill be ample
opportunity for him to suggest legisla
five action before the original bill is
delivered to him and the recall will be
unnecessary.
It is proposed to liave all bills printed
before introducing them and the original
bills printed from the same type as the
members' copies. It is proposed to read
the bill in full the second time as soon
as it is reported favorably by a com
mittee or when the adverse report of a
committee is rejected. All amendments
are to be presented at this time, the bill
having been read in full and the amend
ment .inserted, the third reading may
generally be by title.
The committee reports that a joint
resolution should not be used to perform
the functions of a bill, as it has been
many times in the past. It is proposed
to prohibit this by rule and to prescribe
for what purpose" joint resolutions may
be used and what joint resolutions shall
be referred to committees and require ex
ecutive approval.
Lnder the present rules it is necessary
to adopt various joint resolutions for
joint canvassing committees which are
required by statute. It is proposed to do
away with" the necessity for these joint
resolutions by inserting the text as usu
ally drawn in joint rules. The commit
tee recommends the passage of a bill
which will allow the representatives' hall
and the Senate chamber to be used for
no purpose but legislation or business
connected therewith, except as tho two
Houses may bv joint rule provide. 1 lie
committee also recommends the adoption
of a ioint rule giving the joint standing
committee permission to use either legis-
lative chamber for other than statutory
purposes at its own discretion.
The committee also recommends that
no measure lie reconsidered unless upon
a three-fourth vote. This will leave
mule opportunity for a reconsideration
that may lie necessary because oi an oo
vious error, but will not encourage at
tempt to reconsider merely because the
original vote was close.
The remirt contains a draft of the pro
posed rules to be acted on by the general
assembly.
An enthusiastic meeti Wash
ington county farrnersN a held at
the Montpclier city hall to-day at the
same time that similar meetings were
being held in nearly every other county
in New England, the purpose being to
organize the milk producers into county
associations and local associations with
a view to getting the benefits accruing
from the efforts of the New England
Milk Producers' association. There were
about 75 jicrsons present, representing
1(1 of the -I.) cities and towns of this
county.
The meeting was called to order at
10:3(1 o'clock by E. C. Maxham of Mid-
dlesex, the president of the Montpclier
union of milk producers. Soon after
wards Mark Moody of aterbury was
elected chairman and M. J. Corliss of
The
organization having been concluded, the
farmers listened to E. H. llallett of St.
Johnsbiiry, who is organizer for the New
England Milk Producers' association. Mr.
llallett spoke at some length, telling of
the losses sustained from poor commis
sion facilities and asking the farmers to
organize as the only way to get their
share of the returns from their products.
M. L. Towne of Barre. president of the
Barre Producers' association, next ad
dressed the meeting, telling of the or
ganization of the Barre association and
of the benefits derived. James B. Es
tee of Montpelier gave a talk on market
conditions, in which ho was particularly
interested because he is chairman of the
Greater Vermont committee to assist
Vermont people in marketing their prod
ucts. Mr. Estce urged further co-opera-tion.
At 12:30 the meeting adjourned for
dinner, and on its reconvening the farm
ers were addressed by F. H. Abbott of
Barre, agent of the Washington County
Farm bureau, C. A. Badger of East
Montpelier, E. C. Maxham of Middlesex
and others. The members present showed
a great deal ot interest in the movement
to form local units and the county as
sociation. Waterbury, lturre and Berlin
were the places which were best repre- '
sented at the meeting. The association
of Washington county milk producers
will work in conjunction with the New
England Milk Producers' association, and
the members of the local unions will
be members of the New England asso
ciation on complying with the stipulations.
Springfield, Mass., Dec. 30. Meetings
of cow owners were held in nearly every
county of New England to-day in re
sponse to the appeal. Sections of Bix
states are regarded as represented. The
purpose of the gatherings was to formu
late plans for the thorough organization
of New England producers, with the idea,
of bringing about a greater co-operation
among farmers and placing the dairy
business on a more profitable basis.
The result of to-day's discussion will
be laid before the annual meeting of the
New England Milk Producers' associa
tion next month. It is estimated that
there are 800,0(10 cows in New England
owned by 200,000 farmers.
FIVE FIREMAN APPLICATIONS.
NEW GAS SUPERINTENDENT.
Joseph M. Nelson Succeeds Luther M.
Pease, Resigned.
A change in the management of the
People's Lighting, Heating & Power Co.
bcame effective to-day when Joseph M
Nelson of Academy street was advanced
l.i Hi ixsition of superintendent, suc
ceeding Luther M. Tense, who has acted
in that capacity tor the past tnree vear
Mr Pease recently receive! an apoin-
ment a first assistant to the manager
of the New Bedford. M"s.. auJ 11-
U.htiii Co. With Mr lie
ruing nini i
All the Candidates Are Said to Have
High Rating.
At city hall this forenoon the alder
manic fire committee aembled to con
sider the examination papers submitted
by five candidates who apeared at tho
public examination in the council cham
ber last evening. Applications were for
two positions in the regular fire depart
ment, which were created recently by the
city council. This afternoon it was stat
ed that the ratings given all five appli
cants were unusually high and that all
of them seemed well qualified to enlist
in the department. Of the five names
presented, three will bo submitted to
.Mayor Gordon and from the three His
Honor will select two for appointments.
It is the purpose of the council to in
crease the manual force of the depart
ment as soon as Possible and it is prob
able that appointments will be offered by
the mayor for confirmation at the regu
lar monthly meeting of the council Tues
day evening.
THE ORGAN" STUDIED.
Miss Gladys N. Gale Gave First of a
Series of Talks.
The first of a series of study talks giv
en annually by the music department of
the Barre Woman's club was given last
evening by Miss (iladys X. Gale at the
Congregational church. The subject was
"The Organ."
A nfcl'er giving historical notes on tho
development of the organ and much val
uable information concerning this by us
too little understood and thus too seldom
enjoyed instrument was first givep, fol-
formal exercises at 7 o'clock, with Pre, ."'it ior - - - " " " " low .hi oy a recuai or great menu
John W. Gordon delivering the annual M assume Ins new J"1' 'r; The program included numbers from
president's address and the preM-ntation j Pease came lo Barre in , 1.H3 ", ; the composition, of Bach, S-hnmann. Ne-
I, :.i tu. I ..:ii .1. S. M. Wharton, and during hi, tenure .in , K -mi r, n.i. Dra a. Bocllmann and
. II lllt-IIMH 11 1 9tTl4 urn. 1 lie IX 111 tin aia I
FORMERLY OF BURLINGTON.
Dr. C!.ude L. Wheeler, Editor of New
York Medical Journal, Dead.
New -York. Dec. 3. r. Claude I.
Whc-b-r. editor of the New Yotk Medical
Journal inee and a former practi
face va rut br small tbot and broken itur tvici in Bwiinetoti. t died to-
g doy. lie was born in Montreal in 161. Tyler and others.
banquet
be held at the Pavilion hotel at 9:15.
The toast master at the banquet will be
S. Hollistcr Jackson of Barre. and the
speakers will include Gov. Chariea W.
(.ten. Gov.-eleet Horace F. Graham, Hon.
M. tear Dorais, K. C of tne Montreal
bar. Chief Justice Loveland Munson. rx
Chief Judge John W. P.owell, Hon. F. t.
Archibald. Jmige W. II. Taylor and H.-n.
M. O. Webber. In addition to the sp-ak-ing
letters will 1 read from I uited
Mates Senator W. P. Dillingham, .l-idge
Wendell P. Stafford, ex-Judge John M.
of office the company's annual I iv.-ijts Sloll,e. rendering of this program
hae been materially increased. j jlV j,. f,,), showed fine musical corn-
There is reason belicc lh-t his . ,,'rehcnsinn. technical ability and tonal
progressive policy will be continued ''" J coloring, while special prai-e should be
SupU Nelson, who enters upon In man- ; awarded the fugiie playing. She was a
agerial duties with plenty of fir-t hn I jted by Mrs. Edwin" Bruce of Barre.
know ledge of the pas business. Mr. 1- j w ,o gave two violin numbers in her
on has been in the employ of the Peo- j ,1H charming manner.
pie's Lighting. Heating it Power (o. i.tri
the past nine years, during hi. h ieri-t
he has gained a practical workinc knowl-j ! on Monday, Jan. I, The Times
edge of the busine. H pn-sent ad-, i will be ined at noon.
tsik is in the nature of a ue-Ted pro- J
motion.
