J
From 'Frlic
Sierra, Oct. 23.'
For 'Frisco
Siberia Mara, Oct 1
From Vancouver
Niagara, Nor. I,
For Vancouvtr -
7. V-
4
TT1 T!
lC
Makora, Not, 19.
TON
MAE
r
1 i
r V
. - - . . ' ' .
'II II ' , . ' ! ' ' I
WMtu.WNa K..; : 12 PAOK--IIO.VOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, QCTOBKR 1!, 1!)1C.-12 PAGES. ' ' PRICE IVE CENTO
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV. No. ?1-' . .- -
as
- 1
0!!EI UVG COST
oral) sib is
Jump in Wheat Sends Bread
Up; Flour Highest -Wholesale
in Twenty Years
MILK GOES UpIn
NEW YORK WITH LEAP
Borden, Distributer, Announces
Increase, Following Con
cession to Dairymen
(AssoelsUa hm T Mtml Wlrvlm)
CHICAGO Ili -Oct "19. The high
cost of living la rapidly going still
- higher. ' ' .:
Another Increase In the price of
bread is threatened and virtually cer
tain In thla city, the focus of wheat
trading and thus the center of the
country's baking Industry. A ten-cent
'Jump In the price of wheat has sent
flour up 75 cents a. barrel. The bak
ers announced that they will have to
make further advances In bread unless
. something' unforeseen operates to
lower the price of flour. Bakers to-
- day are paying $9.50 a barrel for flour
at wholesale, tad highest price In Chi
cago In 20 years.
; W NEW YORK, N. Y Oct 19. Bor
! den's, the largest milk distributer of
New York and vicinity, today put into.
effect an Increase In the price of milk,
retail. Best milk now sells for 12
cents a quart .
This milk increase comes on the
heels of concessions made by the milk
distributers. Including Borden's, Shef
field and Mutual-MsDermott, to the
Dairymen's League. ; The latter, con
trollng 500,000 cows and thus most of
the supply aroatd New York, refused
to tlra Individual contracts, with the
distributers and a cc.nerclal war. re
sulted which waa settled ,early ; this
month when. the distributers yielded
to demands and gave the league more
for its .milk, 'wholesale.. To cover
this increase, Borden is ' now' In
cre?ini the retail price of lhe conv
modity. . . .tv. ' . " ,
i LISiTTO COAST
'TO HE HEPAIRED
Diver Examining Hull Today;
Report Wilt Tell Whether
; vr Damage' is Serious r ,
, ' That the Matson steamer Lurilne,
jCich .bumped her stern on a sub-
ierged rock off Makapuu Point at
S:S5 Wednesday morning, may -have
to go to Can Francisco for i repairs,
without taking any passengers or
freight, was conrldered likely by port
authorities today, who axe Inclined to
believe the damage cone the steamer s
hull more serious than was consid
ered yesterday.
The LurUne la due to steam for San
Francisco at noon Tuesday. If she
has to go to San Fraucl&oa without
any, passengers or freight It will up
set the Matson schedule and heighten
' the local congestion In canned pines
- awaiting shipment to the ' coast, as
well as increasing still further the con
gestlon In freight at San Francisco
awaiting shipment to island ports.
Agency Awaits Report
Castle & Cooke's shipping depart
ment this morning could neither con
firm nor deny the report that damage
to the Luriine's liull is so extensive
as to necessitate her going light to
San Francisco for repairs. The de
partment said the diver's, report would
4etermlne what course "will have to
be taken. . A.
Whether the U. S. inspectors of
hulls and boilers for the local district
will allow the steamer to leave to
night for KahJlul as scheduled de
pends on the report to be made late
this afternoon by John Kealoha, an
' Inter-Island diver, who worked all yes
terday afternoon Inspecting the ves
sel's hull to determine the damage
dose. : :'.- ' - ' , ; ': - '
, "tjt'-jrr Examining Hull - - ' ,
i V'i-e diver continued his work at 7
n viork this mornlnr anl at noon, com-
ing up for a few momenta, said he
had not yet discovered the dent. He
was at that time working on the port
side amidships at Pier 19 while eight
gangs of stevedores were discharging
the Luriine's cargo for this port.
Inspector Visit Steamer .
.Between 2 and 3 o'clock this; after-
: '-' C Continued on page two) ' ,
HUGE DAM DEDICATED
EL. PASO. Tex Oct. 19. Elephant
Butte day, the largest piece of mason-
ry construction in the. world, was dedi
cated today with A. A. Jones of New
Mexico, formerly . assistant secretary
of the Interior, representing the pres-
- ident. . '
T-NEW YORK STOCK
t
MARKET TODAY
Fellowlna are the closina price of
stocks on the New York market t
day, sent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless:
' Yestsr-
Today. day
Alaska Cold 13
11?4
American Smelter ..... 109 101A
American Sugar Rfg.... 116'2 117'
American Td. A Tel... 133'4. 133
Anaconda Copper ...... 94 94'i
Atchison ............... 1C6 lOtt'
Baldwin Loco. . ... .. . . . 83 84'
Baltimore & Ohio...... 88 88
Bethlehem Steel 544
Calif. Petroleum ....... 23'A
Canadian Pacific 175 177
CM.&6L P. (St. Paul) 95 55,
Colo. Fuel & Iron...... 53ft 53H
Crucible Steel ......... W t85?i
Erie Common ......... 38 38'2
General Electric ...... 184 181
General Motors
Great Northern Pfd.... 118 118
Inter. Harv, N. J 117 116
Kennecott Copper . . .. . 52 52
Lehigh R. R. ....... ..L 84 84
New York Central...... 107 108
Pennsylvania . .. . ..... . 58 58
Ray Conaol. ............ 25 254
Southern Pacific ...... 100y2 . 101
Studebaker 134' 132Vi
Tennessee Copper ..... 22ft 23';
Texas Oil 222 2222
Union Pacific ......... 150 149
U. S. Steel............ 1153,4 113ft
U. S. Steel Pfd......... 120 120U
L'tha 95. 95i
Western Union ........ 103ft 104'4
Westlnghouse ......... 62ft 62
Bid, fEx-dlvldend. JUnquoted.
1MD0HAVAGE
SOUTHERTI STATES
Much Property Damage Re
ported in Wake of Vlsita
i tion;Tvo Dead: .
(ijweUt44,rtt rTlfrl-WIiM
MOCILE, Ala, Oct. 19-The Storm
loss in Mobile and Pensacola is esti
mated at $100,000. Though fears were
entertained that the citrus fruit crop
of Alabama and Florida would , be
much harmed. It now appears there
v.'as no great damage. r,
ATLANTA, Ga., Oct. 10. Earth
quake and tornado ravaged Alabama,
Georgia, Louisiana and Tennessee yes
terday. The iiurrlcane blew up from the
Gulf of Mexico with but little warning
and 'swept over the southern coast
states. VThile It was at its height the
temblor came and shook the four
states fiercely, tumbling down chim
neys, shaking - houses and sending
thousands of negroes in the crowded
districts of the larger cities Into waves
of panic. . .
.;. Mobile, Birmingham, . Pensacola,
New Orleans and scores of smaller
cities and townn felt the earthquake.
The first temblor was recorded a few
moments after 4 o'clock yesterday
afternoon. The earth waves came In
rapid and sickening succession.
The hurricane did far more damage
than the earthquake. Starting In the
Gulf it moved northward, lashing the
coast towns with: Its fury, and leaving
a train of demolished houses, broken
telegraph poles and ruined crops be
hind it In places the wind rose to 114
miles an hour.
The weather station at Pensacola,
Florida, where the government has a
powerful wind gauge, reported that
the gale there Tose to the highest
point known on that coast of heavy
winter and fall storms. In Mobile
the velocity recorded was 110 miles.
Several small vessels caught In the
Gulf by the gale were driven ashore
or foundered In the sea raised by the
wind.
Two Persons Kitted.
One person waa reported to have
been killed in Pensacola and In Mobile
a negress was electrocuted by a fallen
wire. . '
The lights of the coastwise towns
and cities were extinguished for hoars
last night, and' telegraph communica
tion much interfered with. The work
of repairing tha telegraph and tele
phone lines began immediately and it
was announced last night that it would
be completed today.
ROPiOlEM'S
G0I$I0,0M
T
. BLISS, Oklahoma, Oct. 19. Armed
posses are pursuing the bandits who
last night held up a Santa Fe flyer
near" this town, killed an express mes
senger and rifled the express car. It
is rumored that the outlaws got $10,
000. It Is also learned that they
flagged the train on the edge of the
famous 101 ranch.
ran
Late News At A Glasce
; FURLOUGHSTO RESERVE ARE STOPPED r '
- WASHINGTON, D. C, Oct.. 19. The need of all available regulars of
the army and In active service has cauaed Secretary of War Baker to stop
halt , applications for furloughs to-the reserve.
VILLA BANDS COM Ml
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex, Oct 1
army of. followers, have taken post
cause the male inhabitant of this p
impressed Into his service, Villa, it is
town burned and permitted his men
WILSON SAYS ELECTION H
" CHICAGO, ilU Oct. 19,-Speaking
dent Wilson declared that he regard
great interruption to the rational pc
said some people, when asked what t
far as they are concerned, they .want
GOVERNOR APPOINTS DR. C. B. COOPER TO COMMISSION .
i Dr. C. B. Cooper was this afternoon. appointed by Governor Pinkham
! as ,a member of the territorial commission on insanity in place of Dr. W.
r L. Moore, who has been seriously ill for some weeks past,
LIVELY-REPARTEE AT INTER-ISLAND HEARING
' Snappy repartee between opposing council this afternoon-at the public
utilities hearing of the Inter-Island rate question injected considerable
, spirit into the meeting. Attorney Clarence Olson had just completed a
round of cross examination to show that CapL Bennett of the Inter-Island
I had had -little experience with cattle shipping on Hawaii since coming in
the present employ. v "'
"I could have assured the attorney of that 15 minutes ago if I had
known what he: w.as. driving aC' aeclared Attorney I J. Warren as Olson
' finished. .' '
"I didn't care to ask you," the tatter retorted. .
"We have nothing to conceal. I assure you," was Warren's reply.
Among the features of the testimony was . the statement that cattle
: could be lifted to boats by the horns better than by slings as at present;
the Intimation that sugar shipping on Maul' holds preference over other
commerce when boats call at Kahulul; that arrival at that port before
dawn Is not feasible, and that the so-c ailed tame cattle of Parker ranch are
wild and always charging theprew. Bennett said one of his men had. lost
an eye as a result of the charges and another had received a. broken leg.
Many nave suffered minor braises. Robert Hind of Pauwaawaa ranch
took the stand at 2:45, o'clock this afternoon. L ).r-.: ' " , "
IWFEARSI
PROCLVJATIOPJ IS
OUT FOR ELECTION
Wireless:; Message to Star
J. i Bulletin Tells of Anxiety :
- : r of CandFdates ; i -
Maul officials ' and candidates are
excited because the governor's elec
tion proclamation - had 5 not been re
ceived on the Valley Isle up to this
morning and fears were held that an
election on November 7 without the
gubernatorial proclamation would be
Invalid.- .
This , situation, brought out by a
wireless message to the Star-Bulletin
this mornine. does not excite either
the governor or Territorial Secretary
Thayer, who looks after . arrange
ments for the proclamation. It ap
pears that the election was duly pro
claimed," though the Valley Isle has
not yet been officially Informed of It.
Maul's anxiety- is related in the fol
lowing wireless message from the
Star-Bulletin's correspondent:
"WAILUKU, Maul, Oct. -19, Offi
cials and candidates fear governor has
failed to Issue the election, proclama
tion. Not received here. Time for
it ha elapsed. Candidates much ex
cited, think validity of election af
fected. Discovered by Bevin (Coun
ty 'Attorney E. R. Bevin). Recalls
Maul 1915 election when legislature
cectifled supervisor' lmllar over
sight , 'V
Secretary Wade. Warren Thayer
said today that Governor Pinkham's
proclamation was Issued on Septem
ber 26, the day that the governor re
turned from his trip to the Civic Con
vention at Hllo, being the first act
that was performed by the executive
on his arrival at the office.
A wiretes message to the governor
while at Hllo had been sent br Mr.
Thayer aaking If he would return in
time to sign the proclamation, and
offering to 'send the document to him
if he wished to prolong his stay. -'
"Maul people are unduly exciten,
said the secretary this morning when
told of the report by the Star-Bulletin.
"The proclamation was sent from this
office on Tuesday last, which would
nut it on the Mauna Kea yesterday
morning- - By this time the document
1 undoubtedly in tne Valley Island.
-It doe not make any difference
whether the proclamation is sent at
certain time or not Of course, the
sooner the belter, but no definite date
is set for sending It out"
HOODLUMS DO DAMAGE
" YT0 SCHOOL BUILDING
Reports have been received at the
department of public Instruction that
vandals recently did considerable
damage to one of the cottages In the
Kauluwela schoolyard. According to
Superintendent Henry W. Kinney, the
boy armed themselves with rock
and proceeded to bombard the build
ing, breaking all of the windows an l
otherwise damaging the structure.
Other schools about the city also have
complained of damage declared to
have been Inflicted by gangs of hood
lums, y -;
Th Pacilfc saloon has been ordered
closed October 26 and 21 following a
meeting of the liquor license commis
sioners Wednesday, when the man
agment was found guilty of ' selling
liquor, to Intoxicated persons.
T MANY ATROCITIES
9-Gen. Villa, with part of his new
ession of San Andreas. Angered he
art of the country fled to escape being
reported, ordered the house of the
to ccmmlt atrocities on the refugees.
INDERS PUBLIC BUSINESS
to the Press Club here today, Presi
s the presidential campaign "as a
rformance of public business." He
he campaign was about, reply that so
to stop "all this progresslveness."
OMR OE 40.5
v.' -
ACRES,
Order of Condemnation Was
v- Signed .Today- CyrFederal :
" ' 5 1 Judge Clemohs v
With the signing by Federal Judge
Charles F. demons today of an order
of condemnation in the case of the
United States . against Lucy, Peabody,
et al., the government comes Into pos
session of 49.48 acres of land at Red
Hill and vicinity, this, island, which
is to be used for fortifications and
other military projects . V : .
The U. S. engineer's office paid into
the clerk's office on Wednesday $9700
as awards to the respondents In the
condemnation proceedings. Under the
order of condemnation the government
becomes the owner of lands on the
Red Hill ridge along the Moanalua
Halawa boundary, in the vicinity of
Salt Lake, and between Makalapa cra
ter and the county road, near Salt
Lake.
It is set forth in the order that the
government desires the condemned
lands for the erection and mainten
ance of a military post, fortifications
and army stations for the public de
fense for the uses and purposes of
the United States government and for
the protection of the harbor and city
of Honolulu.
The government proposes to erect
among other things, public buildings,
fortifications,' magazines, arsenals,
lighthouses, range and beacon lights,
quarantine stations, v hospitals,
wharves, docks, piers and roads.
Aside from Lucy Peabody, other re
spondents are the Protestant Episco
pal church in the Hawaiian Islands,
St .Andrew Priory, Bishop Henry
Bond Restarted, Queen's Hospital,
Bruce Cartwright, trustee; the Terri
tory of Hawaii, C. H. Belllna and the
Honolulu Plantation Company,
Further' details : of the Red Hill
project are given In another column
today In the report of a talk by Gen.
Evans before the Chamber of Com
merce yesterday.
HELP-TO CROPS
OMAHA, Neb., Oct M.Rain, sleet
and snow are falling today over vir
tually all of Nebraska, western Iowa
and South Dakota. At Norfolk, Neb.,
the fall Is four inches, and two at
Sioux City, Iowa, with the storm con
tinuing. The downfall will .benefit the
wheat In these states -
PROMOTION COMMITTEE MEETS
A 'meeting of the Hawaii Promotion
Committee was to be held at the
Chamber of Commerce rooms at 3:30
o'clock this afternoon. .The members
will take up the subject of hotel ac
commodations and the tramway pro
ject over the Pall.
H ED HILL
S1W FALLING
I WEST GREAT:
BMTISHL0SS
ON THE S0L1ME
IS STAGGERING
Total Casualties for Somme
Drive Now Far More Than
300,000
LONDON British losses In Sep
tember were at the rate of more than
38C0' a day. The casualties on all
fronts reported in this month were:
Officers, 5439; men. 114,110.
Heavy as were the British losses in
September. th y .were lighter than
those of August, which , were 127.945,
a daily average of 4127. In July, the
first month of the Somme offensive,
the losses .weie about half those of
August or September, notwithstanding
the fact that in July, the British storm
ed the first line German defenses."
The casualties in that month were
59,675, so that the total for the three
months of the Somme drive is 307,169.
French and English press despatch
es report that, ccnslderlng the char
acter of the fighting, the losses of the
Allies on the Somme are' low.,
JAPANESE POLICE
TO HELP ClllilESE
Peking Makes Condition That
They Shall Not Act Until
Requested .
. - . .. - . , t
(Associated Prssa by Fedsrl Wirsltss)
AMOY, China, Oct 19, Japan has
offered to send Japanese police to as
sist the Chinese in maintaining order
In this city and province. The Chinese
government has accepted the offer
conditionally, saying that the Japanese
must remain on the premises of the
Japanese consulate until their assist
ance Is requested.
Amoy has been the center o( rebel
activity In southern China for months
and there has been much disorder. '
SEC01 ARREST
FOR DERAILMENT
OF TRAIN MADE
Kawaihae is Apprehended and
Held to Circuit Court
' in $2000 Bond
Another man has been arrested by
the police on a charge of attempting
murder by assisting in derailing the
Oahu Railway train near Iwllel road
during the strikers' riot October 4.
He Is Mike Kawaihae and was taken
into custody late Wednesday after
noon following positive identifications
offered the police. ' " ' '
When arraigned in the police court
this morning Kawaihae waived a hear
ing and was committed to the circuit
court with a bond fixed at $2000.
Another defendant on the sam
charge is Kalema, who waa recently
Indicted by the grand Jury. .
A reward of $500 was J offered by
the Oahu Railway & Land Company
following the derailing, but officials
of the company did not know this
morning whether any division of this
would be made In the two arrests ak
ready made. '
Although Sergt S. E. Poaha did not
bring Kawaihae into custody he is
largely responsible, for the find and
the common opinion around the jail
this afternoon is that he will get a
part of the $500 reward.
Poaha arrested a striking Hawaiian
stevedore on suspicion of assisting In
derailing the train. To free himself
this Hawaiian is said to have
"squealed" on Kawaihae.
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS
r.KTJMAN ADMIRALTY REPORT,
Oct 18. On October 7 in the Medi
terranea Sea an Italian protected
cruiser, the Libia, was severely dam
aged by a torpedo from a German
submarine. "
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS RE
PORT, Oct 18. On the western front
(Prince Rupprecht) the artillery ex
changes have reached a considerable
intensity, especially north of the
Somme, on a large sector. The Brit
ish attacked betwen Guedencourt and
Zebars and the French this, evening
from Les Bazures to Rancourt Our
annihilating fire was poured on the
crowded stormers in the trenches
and the attacks frustrated. Near
Guedencourt there is still hand-to-hand
fighting, but our positions, are completely-
maintained.
.French parties sallying from Mor
val and Rancourt have been repulsed
after hard fighting. The enemy pene
trated Sallly, where fighting is still
going on. The enemy's advances
toward the main objectives near
Thiepval and Courtrelec and Boucha
vesnes have been absolutely fruitless.
GEM-flOSTM BIPLOIS
Ifl I'JASEW DO HOT DSJY
BREPEf J PfiOBflDLY LOST AT SEA
GREECE'S PARLIAMENT AND UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS DE
MANDED AS BARRACKS FOR ALLIED SOLDIERS AND
SAILORS FILLING ATHENS GERMANY WINS VICTORY
FROM RUSSIANS ON ST0QHH0D DAY'S WAR NEWS
v (Aioeiat4 Vrt &rwf br Federsl Wlratns)
BERLIN, Germany, Oct 19 The Allies on the west today mad a des
perate effort to break the German lines between Le Sar and Morval, onr
' the Somme front After a tremendous fire of artillery for several days,
they made a series of infantry charges from daybreak until noon. The at.
tack partially failed under the German fire. The German positions were
held, or if lost were retaken In counter-attack.
LONDON, Ervg, Oct 19. A Reuters despatch says thrMh Norwegian
steamer Sten has been sunk by a submarine, no halt, warning or examln
atlon preceding the sinking. Sixteen members of the crew have landed
at Christiansand. .
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Oct 19. The Rumanians today are pushing
back Austro-German Invader In Transylvania, at Praedet, beyond th bor
der. Nine hundred prisoners have been taken In Tretus valley. .
WASHINOTON I). C, Oct. 19. Tlu loss of the Orman super
submarine Bremen is now virtnally conceded bv the lending diplomats
here representing dermanj and Austria, and who are aware of the
plans for the first vovage-of the big merchant-submersible to the
United States. " ,
The Bremen is a month ovenlue. The Teuton diplomats admit
that they have had no information as 4o her fate or her movements,'
except that she tailed from Ilremerhaven. They do, not believe the
submarine has been captured by the Allies.
Anglo-French Commander Demands
Athens Buildings as Barrj
ATHENS, Greece Oct. 10. AYith soldiers and marines of the
Allied countries, particularly French, liritish and Italians, rapidly
filling Athens and Piraeus, the Greek government has been called on
to furnis'h facilities for housing them. The commander of the Allied
patrols has demanded the use of the parliament and university- build
ings as 'barracks for his men V '.: , :-t
Ciinard Liner Alaunia Bloiyii "
wBy Irline; Members of Crew Llijcb
NEW YORK, N. Y., Oct. 19. The Cunard liner Alaunia, bound
from New York to English ports, has been blown up by a' mine in the
English Channel, according to reports to the Cunard ofllce today.
The Alaunia sailed from New York October 7 and called at Fal-
mouth last Tuesday. It is believed she landed her passengers at Fal
mouth, as was the custom oh this run.
Captain Benison and. members of the crew have been saved and
some are missing.; . : ' ;
NEW .YORK, N. Y, Oct 19. Announcement was, made by the Cunard
offices this afternoon that the Alaunia carried 185 cabin and 58 steerage
Ittssengers, among them a few Americans, and a crew of 230. Officials
say that all the passengers were landed at Falmouth.
The Alaunia is a newand large steamer, of 13,405 tons, built in
1913 and owned by the-Cunard company. Her home port is Liver
pool, Hhe is 520 feet long.
Allies Gain in Macedonia and Vest
PARIS, France, Oct. 19. The Serbians on the Macedonian front
have captured the village of JJrod, southeast of Monastir, after severe
fighting with the Bulgarians , '
On the west front today, south pf the Somme between Biaches
and Lamaisonette the French made progress. Yesterday's gains hare
been held despite counter-attacks. ' :
William Thar, Aviator, is Alive
PARIS, France, Oct. 19. William Thaw of Pittsburg. and New
York, ; well-known American aviatof who has won fame with the
French aviation corps, has not been killed in action, as reported.
Thaw arrived from the front today to attend the funeral of Norman
Prince of the Franco-American aviation corps, who was injured in an
air-raid on southern . Germany. . ,
Victory on East Front V on by Germim:
; BERLIN, Germany; Oct. 19. The Germans have broken down
the offensive of the Russian troops on the west bank of the Stochhod
river, in the Volhynia sector, and by a series of "well-timed counter
attacks have captured a number of Russian trenches on this front.
A Russian attack near Bubnow, has been repulsed with heavy losses.
Five hostile machines were shot
down In air combats today.
Crown prince's front: . West of thi
Meuse there is lively, cannon activity.
" Eastern war theater: On Prince
Leopold's front after costly failure of
strong infantry charges, enemy's ao
tlvity limited to lively fire against
our front west of Luck. Infantry at
tacking Austrian positions near
Zwyiyn was driven back by fire Into
trenches, the enemy suffering heavy
losses.
Southwest of Herbutov Bavarian
battalions, after a strong artillery
preparation, stormed a Russian point
d'appui and brought in two officers
and men, as well as 12 machine guns.
Archduke Carl's ont: Enemy at
tacks' against advanced positions at
Blstrica and Solovlnska failed. . In
the Carpathians Lcdova Heights is
c:is
under strong fire. In JClrlltsaba sec
tor advance respulsed.
Transylvania? Situation nnchanged.
Balkans: On the Macedonian front
Increased artillery led to hostile at
tacks west of Monastir and Florins.
Further north and northeast of Hadzi
planlna attacks failed. Bulgarian ad
vance has cleaned out a Serbian hold
on the north bank of the Ozerna river.
IMPORTANT DEED FILED -
The deed to the land owned by the
Clans Spreckels estate sltuat.-l be
tween Merchant Bishop anl r i
streets, which wal sold Av
1918, to the Bishop Trust
for $115,379, was filed to!
-Canadian maples are to
around the' graves of the
soldiers In France.
