1 TTf
oFoURNALo
iULJLLi
IiXCELSI OK,."
VOL, 35-Established 1832.
GREENVILLE, OHIO, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1916.
No 16
Jl
''V
f
Interview with Chair
man Hatfield.
I am in receipt of a letter from
Mr. W. N. Shaffer of Paulding
relative to an incident in connec
tion with the former administra
tion of the banking department,
to which I have made the reply
attached herewith.
Insofar a3 Mr. Shaffer, or any
other individual is concerned, we
have in this campaign o special
interest and certainly had and
have no desire to reflect upon
them. The real matter in inter
est is .the remarkable character
of the conduct of the state bank
ing department under the admin
istration of James M. Cox as gov
ernor and Emery Lattanner, H3
bank superintendent.
Id all the history of Ohio no de
partment has ever been so mal
adriiinistered as this one during
Ihe governorship of Mr. Cox.
Let me illustrate : '
Pictures of the goverpor . and
others were framed and paid for
from the funds of a closed iank.
The re-payment of this money
was enforced during this admin
istration. Liquidation expenditures in the
sum of . $47,158.87, not approved
by the courts, were allowed. An
example of the unreasonableness
of such alldwances is shown by
:the fact that in one -case where
' $5,43134 fallowed, the court
reduced- the allowances in the
sum of $2,300, And the judge,
i
in passing on thse extravagant
allowances,, said: "It was no
doubt the idea of the superinten
dent as, to the way to- do things.
The trouble was the conditions
and surroundings of the depart
ment has become such that their
ideas were erroneous and wrong, ' '
This indictment of, this very
important statement of the gov.
ernment of Ohio, .coming, from a
judicial source, is the best char
acterization that can be rmde
and further comment would seem
superfluous.
October 8, 1916.
Mr. W. N. Shaffer,'
Paulding, Ohio,
Dar Sir : 1 beg to acknowledge
receipt of your letter of- October
4, 1916, relative to the publica
tion concerning the payment of a
bill for an overcoat by a check
drawn by you, as Deputy Super
intendent of Banks, on funds of
the Metropolitan Bank of Cincin
nati, then in process of liquida
tion. In reply, I beg to state that the
facts aie that this overcoat was
billed to an employee, other than
yourself, in the banking depart
ment in the liquidation of this
bank. His name was omitted
for publication simply because of
the feeling that the material fact
was that the overcoat bill was
paid by a check from these funds
We did not and do ' not claim
that you received ihe overcoat in
question,, or profited in any way
by the transaction.
If, as you claim, the overcoat
was paid for by you out of the
funds of the bauk, merely as an
accommodation to this employee
and the amount paid for the ov
ercoat was later deducted from
compensation due him. we can
only say that we have been una
ble to find a public record of such
deduction in the, liquidation of
this bank.
The businesslike proceedure, at
least, would have been for the
banking department to have paid
the employee whatever compen
sation was due him and have pet
him pay for the overcoat
The sole intent of the publica
tion was to call public attention
to the. unbusinesslike methods
which prevailed at the time in
question in the banking depart
ment of the state and it was in
no sense intended to reflect on
your personal honesty and integ
rity, which we did not and do
not question.
We shall be pleased to give the
same publicity to this statement,
insofar as we are able, as we
have given the original state
ment. Very truly yours,
Chas. S. Hatfield, Chairman.
Clear Bad Skin from Within.
Pimply, muddy complexions
are due to impurities in the blood.
Clear up the skin by taking Dr.
King's New Life Pills. Their
mild laxative qualities remove
the poisons from the system and
brighten the eye. A full, free,
non-gripi ng bowel movemeiit., in
the morning is the reward of a
dose of Dr. King's New Life
Pills the night before, At your
druggisc, 25c. Adv
Palestine.
P. D. Groendyke and family
visited at Grover Hill, near Van
Wert, over Sunday.
J. B. Wilcox and wife have re
turned from a s;ay of several
weeks at a sanitarium for treat
ment for Mr. Wilcox.
Indiana relatives from Gas Ci
ty yisited Mrs. Monk's family
Sunday.
Bor ii, Saturday evening, to Mr.
and Mrs. Allen Koontz, a son.
Mrs. Esther Campbell has been
visiting relatives at St. Paris and
other points. .
Fred Hiatt and family spent
Sunday at Joseph Ross's.
Those who were present at the
ball game on the Cole farm last
Saturday say it was the great
sporting event of the season.
Elmer Jefferis of California is
visiting his numerous relatives in
this" part of the country.
.Oct. 16. From Palestine.
Don't Neglect Your Cold.
Neglected colds get worse, in
stead of better. A stuffed head,
a tight chest must be relieved at
once. Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey
is Nature's remedy. Honey
and glycerine heal the irritated
membrane, antiseptic tar loosens
the phlegm, yeu breathe- easier
and ycur cold is broken up.
Pleasant to take, Dr. Bell's Pme
TarHoney is an ideal remedy for
children as well as gro,wn-ups.
At your druggist, 25c. Adv
See Clubbing Lht
Gettysburg.
A couple of young men have
become experts in the game of
basket ball. The one can arm
himself with a cane and then toe
the mark equal to the best the
other can put his hand in a sling
and mark up with tbe best. Noth
ing like proficiency and win the
honors.
Another pioneer has been call
ed to that bourne from whence
no traveler returns. Abraham
Farmer died last week, aged near
ly 72 years. His wife preceded
him in death several years. He
i3 survived by several daughters,
all married and settled in life,
having homes within a radius of
five miles. Funeral services were
held yesterday morning at the
Oakland Brethren churcn, north
of this place about three miles,
conducted by Rev. H. Miller,
minister of that church. Inter
ment in Versailles cemetery.
The wife of Clarence esecker
died last week, leaving her hus
band and four small children.
Interment tomorrow in cemetery
near this place.
J. M. Moul. wife and children,
autoed to Piqua via Pleasant Hill
to visit his father, who is con-
fined in a hospital or. account of
an operation performed on his
leg, afflicted for many years;
from which it is said he i3 recovt
ering reasonably well
Thanksgiving will be our next
public function and many of us
will be put to our wit's end to
get up a suitable menu for the
occasion. Turkeys, rke every
thing else, are way up on the
perch and not a few will find if
necessary to load our tables with1
something else than the usual
gobbler, and probably some will
have to be cor tent with the lux-;
ury of pumpkin pie only. No
matter, I suppose what we may
have ' we will doubtless be as
thankful for as if supplied with
an abundance of the best of vi
ands. Thankfulness is the vab
able ingredient for the day, and
i.ot gormandizing.
s
President Wilson passed thro'
here on a special train last Thurs
day on his return east from the
Indianapolis gathering. While a
few gathered at our depot to get
a glimpse of the passing train
and its occupants, nothing of in-
terest occmred to mar the page
ant. Measures for safety were
observed to avoid any mishap,
which is deemed all right and
proper.
The time to make our choice of
rulers is fast approaching and I
suppose everybody has made his
choice and will on the day render
his verdict, whether right or
wrong.
Miss Mae Brown and Mrc. Grace
Dickensheets; with her two chil
dren, . moved, to Bradford Xa&
week..
Oct. 16. , XOB
C A S TO R I A
For Infants and Children
In Use For Over 30 Years
Always bears
the
S'gnature of
Governor Frank B. Willis
REPUBLICAN , CANDIDATE FOR
RE-ELECTION.
, -4,
FRANK B. VfjTXIS, as governor,
has steadfastly and untiringly
devoted himself to the welfare
of the people of Ohlo,; and, he
will be re-elected .in JJovember by one
of the largest majorities In the histo
ry of Ohio. Fop the $rst time in the
history of OhlojJnder his leadership
expenses of thejetate for current ex-'
penses (aside froin'highwc.va,' paid for
by a special levjf are less for a twelve
months' period nun during , the pre
ceding twelve months. Savings have
been made f o? the Jcountles, far in
creased efficiency' has been injected
into state departments, a yastly in
creased volume of work hag been ban
For - Lieutenant Governor
H,
T IEUTEN ANT GOVERNOR JOHN
I H. ARNOLD was torn In Free
I ; port, I'a., Dec; 11. 18C2. He is
of Scotch-Irish descent on the
side of his father and from the good
old Pennsylvania Dutch on the ma
ternal side. After his graduation from
the grammar school in Pittsburgh he
worked for several years in the lum
ber woods for his father. In 1885, a
year after the death of his father,
Mr. Arnold came to Columbus with his
aged mother, now eighty-one, and set
tled on the east side, where he now
resides.
Mr. Arnold became actively connect
ed with the Republican party shortly
after he came to Ohio,' and, although
never having previously held political
office, he was committeeman in his
ward and secretary of the committee.
He carries a union card, having work
ed in a number of Columbus factories
while he studied law at night. His
thrift and determination to succeed
have been responsible for his rise. He
is prominent iu the councils of several
secret orders, is a firm believer in a pro-
Afi.-a t-avtff fnr tha nrntwtlnn of Amer
ican labor and manufacture and believes that all labor should be well paid.
As lieutenant governor his record was such that E. W. Hughes, for years
parliamentarian of the house of representatives, says that no other lieutenant
governor of Ohio ever presided with greater efficiency. For five months not a
parliamentary ruling of Mr. Arnold's was reversed. He was renominated by a
large majority and enjoys the confidence of his party. He is married and is a
Presbyterian.
For Auditor of State
HAYES M. ADAMS Of ERIE COUNTY
HAYES M. ADAMS of Sandusky,
preseut auditor of Erie county
and Republican candidate for
state auditor. Is a native of
Crawford county. He was born near
Lykens forty-one years ago and has
lived in northern Ohio all his life.
Adams is not only, an expert ac
countant, but has had a wide business
experience and for two terms has re
ceived the highest commendation for
his efficient methods as auditor of
Erie county.
In an official report of the chief su
peyvisor of public accounting, after go
ing over the books of Adams in Erie
county in 1914, that official wrote:
"The work in this office is of a very
high order, and much care has been
shown in the conduct of public busi
ness. "The auditing department of Erie
county is certainly to be congratulat
ed on the accuracy of all settlement
work.
For four years Mr. Adams was cash
ier and teller of the Sandusky Gas and
Electric company and later "general anfl
Banking company at Sandusky. As a business man ne nas won tne esteem
of his associates and as a citizen of the highest type is universally respected
and beloved. His election to a second term as auditor of Erie county unques
tionably buows the regard in which he is held in his own community.
Mr. Adams' family is one of the oldest in the state, he being a direct de
scendant of John and John Quincy Adams, early presidents of the United
States.,
died, legislation of farreatnlng
importance has been enacted
and carried into execution.
Governor Willis first attain
ed political prominence in Ohio
through his fearlessness as a
member of the legislature.
Klected to congress, he had a
first term record of such credit
as Is given to few men, and in
1914, after one of the most no
table campaigns in Ohio's his
tory, he was elected governor.
During the two years that have
followed he lias consistently
carried on the figlit of the peo
ple against a machine ule that
has not stopped at any limit to
misrepresent h!m or to thwart
the people's will.
The governor Is Intensely democrat
ic, and as governor he has seen more
people than any executive of the Wuck
eye State in more than a generation.
He is just as accessible to the hum
blest citizen of the state as he Is to
Its most aristocratic citizen. No gov
ernor In years has spent so many hours
In his office on an average day or so
faithfully attended to the duties im
posed upon him.
The people of Ohio have come to
know him as a man absolutely sincere,
of unquestioned honesty, hard work
ing, courageous, unhindered by the
hardest of obstacles, always faithful
to the trust committed to his care.
The people of the nation have come to
recognize him us one of the great lead
ers of the nation today.
ARNOLD
JOHN H. ARNOLD.
HAYES
r, v
fv ' ' -"A X
M. ADAMS.
For United States Senator
MYRON T. HERRICK
f ' "i rr fj
I ' " - L , t , ' 'J
A 2 " i
' i
v V
A Sv: ' , ryf
K - k jr
r ' '
way .:: a'U '
MYRON T. HERRICK.
MYRON T. nEURICK'S name is a household word in Ohio. The finest
thing that can be said of Myron T. Herrick, Republican candidate for
United States senator from Ohio, is that he Is a typical American. It
is not an extravagant statement that Myron T. Herrick is a cltien
of the world, and it is an interesting fact that he was born in a log cabin on -farm
wrested from the wilderness by his grandfather, a farm obtained by hi
grandfather from the government for services rendered as a soldier In th
a-ni nr h '
It. was the open air life of hto early years on the farm that gave Myron T.
Herrick the constitution to stand the manifold activities of later year. His
political experience began with his election to the city councjl of tleveland In
1885. He was the friend and intimate of all the greatest statesmen of the
time, and the American people-will not forget that, it was Myron T. Herrick
with his big heart and open purse who came to the rescue of our martyred
"president ' William' Mc'IfliileyT when "ueflnanclal storm thrttened 'to'" wreck f
the career of Mr. McKinley. Mr. Herrick became ihe fortieth governor of
Ohio at noon, Monday, January 11, 10O4, and some of the best reform and
progressive measures with which Ohio Is now blessed are due'to Mr. Herrick'a
Initiative and devotion to the public interests.
The American people know Mr. Herrick best, perhaps, for his deeds while
United States ambassador to France. Appointed by a Republican president he
was us'icd to remain at his post by President Wilson during the critical days
of the eavly period of the war. Germany, Austria and Turkey, with the dec
laration of hostilities, asked Ambassador Herrick to assume the responsibility
of caring for their interests in Frame and for their thousands of subjects
stranded there. These people, men, women and children, old and young, were
gathered into interne camps by the French. In these places the American am
bassador visited them, carrying relief and assurances of safety. He secured
tlie release of hundreds of these noucoinbatants and helped them on their way
to their homes in other countries. The columns of foreign and American news
papers ranj; with the name and praise of Myron T. Herrick in these days. He
was a man of tremendous action and few words. The American people were
mighty proud of their ambassador to France.
When the flags of all nations and even the French government itself left
the French capital there was one flag and one man who remained at his post
of duty, and that flag was the Stars and Stripes of the United States, and that
man was Myron T. Herrick of Ohio. With the great city of Paris under the
very shadow of invasion, with thonsindsand tens of thousands of people
crowding the roadways out of the city, Mr. Herrick, without any heroics, but
with quiet determination, simply announced that his duty was there and
there he was going to stay. It Is a matter of history that this splendid Amer
ican inspired the greatest capital of Europe and brought confidence out of panic
and disorder by the very power of his courage and real American spirit.
It is a rare opportunity that the people of Ohio have to elect Myron T.
Herrick to the United States senate. That his victory at the polls on November
7 next will be overwhelming is conceded by men of all parties.
For Attorneu General
EDWARD C. TURNER
EDWARD C. TURNER, candidate
for re-election as attorney gen
eral, is a native of Franklin
county. He is forty-four years
of age and a graduate of Ohio State
university, with degrees of LL. R. and
LL. M. He is a thirty-second degree
Mason and Shriner, Odd Fellow and
Elk.
In the administration of his office
Mr. Turner's chief considerations have
been efficiency, economy and iinpar
tiallty. Notwithstanding the great in
crease in every branch of the work,
he reduced the running expenses of
the department almost $5,000 a month,
or more than $8o,000 in the first eight
een months. The work of the depart
ment has been handled expeditiously
and with excellent results.
During the eighteen months ending
June 30, 1916, Mr. Turner collected and
covered into the state treasury the
gum of $oS9,067.40 hi sums ranging
from 8 cents up. This is the largest
number of persons ever collected by
the department during a similar period
of time. In fact, the increase alone
would have been sufficient to have paid
all the expenses of the 'department during that period.
During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, the department participated in
510 different cases throughout the state, rendered 1,183 opinions and collected
for the state treasury alone $441,309.35.
In addition to this, the department aided in the collection of many findings
of the bureau of inspection and supervision of public offices against local offl
tials and others for the benefit of local treasuries. Various investigations
were made of alleged misuse of public funds, illegal awarding of contracts, etc.
An examination of the records of the attorney general's office will disclose the
fact that in every Instance Mr. Turner has endeavored to safeguard the public
and the public treasury without fear or faror and regardless of political or per
sonal considerations.
READ OUR GLUDBING OFFERS
. T
v " V '
EDWARD C. TURNER.
