Sun.
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Increasing cloudiness, followed by rain;
to-morrow rain; east winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 55; lowest, 39.
Pctnlled weather, mall and marine reports on page VI.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 49.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1916. Copyright, 1016, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Astoclntlon.
ONE CENT
In Oreater New York.
Jersey I'Hr and Newark.
FJnetrhera
TMO CF.NT9,
DIPUT AH 1 UUQUAKE AND HURRICANE'
KlUtll Uf LlrCi shake up the south
IS ABOVE MONEY,
SAYS COLONEL
Arraigns Wilson's Foreign
Policy in Dozen Ken
lucky Speeches.
RAMS 31URDKKS ON
WKAKXKSS OF ACTION
Dialling and Bombastic
Talk Used in Place of
liiyr Stick.
CO.VDKMXS VIOLATION
OF PARTY PLEDGES
"Glad to Re in State Where
reople Arc Not Too Proud
to Fight."
Tii'lrlM.E, Oct. IS. At the end of a
So mile trip through central ami south
ern Kentucky, 11 panorama of blue grass,
at-d mountain folks clustered at railroad
Hat.. ns to mar their welcome to an old
friend. I' d. Itooscvelt made the tlrst ble
reech "f his tour In Plnxnlx Hill Hall,
Louisville, to-night.
Peitting himself mainly to a discus
sion of the Wilson foreign isollcles nnd to
whole hearted pralc for Mr. Hughes, he
delivered nt tup pced to 3.000 persons
the message which the Republican cam
palsr.ers believe will turn this doubtful
State Into the Hughes column. Never
has his delectation of the President's,
dealings with Mexico, Germany and
(Treat Ilrltaln been more positively ex
pressed. ll- said, and was wildly applauded for
m itiir It, that for three years America
has Riven no protection to Its citizens
abroad He insisted that the operations
of the F-boats off Nantucket amounted
tn a ' t.-ef ul blockade of the American
ioit. He said that President Wilson's
professed loyalty to humanity was sham
lovaly. and that he knew Mr. Hughes to
he a s.ncere, brave and able man who
oull make whatever ha said square
with h.s deids.
lilt ml A it n in son Lnn.
Mr Itooscvelt drew on his own cxpcrl-
et 'e m the Presidency to Indicate how
tlir Government could have settled the i
rc .t tallway dispute without submit
tli g ti thf holdup which compelled the
pjuvwe of the Adamson law.
"I was reminded to-day," he said, "of
an .n idem that took place while 1 wa
Pre nt. On two occasions I had to
ln oko the power of the Federal Govern
ment by Kxecutlvc action In behalf nf
the riBhts of the tallroad brotherhoods. I
"r.c f these occasions was when War
rn S Stone, leader of the Hrotherhood 1
t I.o nmottve KtiRlneers, told me the,
L u.julle and Nashville Itallway was
jo: ic to rc-duie waxes.
"I n i'ltied the Attorney-General In a
pi ' . iter that under the Krdman act
I nu.d expect him to see that Investl
r 1 1 ti wai made of the Louisville and
N -iivi le, co that the exact equity of
1 proposed wage reduction could be
d, ii 'mined. 1 ulso asked Chairman
K'i tip of the Interstate Commerce
' mission tu see If the reduction wns;
pi-titled so that the Government might
6. I.
At that point the Louisville and
N.i 'nillp Tt.ulroad Informed me that
uuc.m would not ltn cut. I was actlna-
e for a square deal. 1 wasn't JudR- I
1 s my question In advance, but was In-
UK upon Investigation by the proper
"i'l.cre Is a close analogy here with tht)
rec.nl situation. The only course In
well times 1st to appoint experts of hlRh
c .aracter to report on the equities of the
conditions. The tnun who will yield to
Improper pleasure for you Is the very
mm who If the chance comes will yield
to improper pressure against you."
Louisville gave the Colonel an old
t'-i ltooeve',t reception. Prom the rail
road station to the hall, two and a half
nvles his path was all red lire, Roman
tamlles-, tin horns and bands, with great
eravils shouting In the rain all the way.
Hp address, 500 people In an overflow
raeet.ug outside the hall.
lclncil liy Train Wreck.
The Colonel spoke In the same hall
tvtiorn Mr Hughes said on October 13
''it t he had been President the Lusl
a. would nut have been sunk, and to
I 'l as in. my people as the place would
Id He wax Introduced by Major W.
nwei,s. Itepub'.lciin candidate for
..igi-s finin the Fifth district, He
y lav, an his train had been de
'f l by a wreck In Ohio and by the
tre iiKdnwii of two engines In Kentucky,
Ai-er a la; mile pull from Cincinnati
'I - . -al trail, i.rriveel i.t 4 o'clock at
. the principal stop outside Louis
i I- i '.rl.tti s the centre of n coal mln
1 ' 'ig oti. also of tho "Illoody Kiev-
' 'i Kre ss district, which gives the
1 st lie-publican majorities south of
a-.tl Inxon's line. When four
lain the t'olone-l did appear at
le ,
V
lir ,
, oou people were out to hall him
el. !. ii rainstorm,
t Iltfisevclt, In Louisville, said In
p.nt
Mr Wilson's promises before elec
' ' tliosei made In his own speeches
f i ' lose, made) la tho platform, have
"' well nigh Invariably broken that
1 al,,i g of them has become a nub-
f.r Jest even among his own
'' Ono of Mr. Wilson's prominent
"r lain- suin.orters In Congress
a',
1 w,ih lefichhlng frankness tho
' nth about Mr Wilson's prceleu-
( '' leoinlses anil those mailo on his be-
r " i e i " . In answer to some charge of
a ' -i ucy, ho respondeel by saying
II 'e.r jilatfonu was made to get Into
'"" "a- and vvei have won.' You will
t)
1 till relli:.plf on t.:.CF, 4HtK eif thn
f"f'9ie(0,ii -r.'orel. the third session
C i',.. viy.sece.tid Congress.
"N'iw, I ,o not tegarel such action on
" put of Mr. Wilson and hK followers
"til i'ie, e-ynlcal fraiikni-ss with which
Jiy nvnw It ns a matter for Je'St. I
oouU If It Is insslble more etTectlve ly to
wacrnilno publlo morality In this eoun-
, Continued on Hixlh I'tige,
Storm Hages in (Jiilf Const
Shocks Severely Felt In
Jinny States.
Atlanta. (Ia Oct. 18. The South
xvas rocked by earthquake and swept by
storm at the same tlmo to-day. Whllo
a tropical hurricane was flaying the
Uulf roast, earth ttemorn overturned
chimney and frightened many people
from their homes in Gcoigla, Alabama
and Tennessee.
The earthquake did little damage, but
wind that reached a velocity of 1H miles'
an hour lifted roofs from houses at
Pensacoln, Pin., nnd sunk n number of
vessels In the harbor. One life was lost.
Mobile repented that It has been
touched more lightly, although the wind
blew no miles an hour. Two small
buildings were destroyed and u negro
woman was killed by a live wire. Ship
ping at Mobile had been warned and ap
parently suffered little harm.
The earth shocks were felt shortly
after 4 o'clock and were severest In
Montgomery and lllrmlnshatn. Ala.,
where swaying ottlce buildings were
emptied within a few minutes. In these
towns chimneys were destroyed and ar
ticles were hurled from shelves In resi
dences and shops. Klscwhcro no dam
age was reported.
The earthquake was felt ns far north
ns Louisville. Ky.. and east to Augusta,
Ua. Its duration was about three min
utes and there were two shocks.
N. Y. GETS $205,000
FOR WAR ANTITOXIN
Itiulger Hearing Ileveals Way
in Which Allies Are Pro
curing Serums.
An unexpe-ted sidelight on the man
ner In which the Kntente Allies nre get
ting large quantities of antitoxins was
furnished at esterdaJs henrlnc before
the sub-committee on budget by Health
Commissioner Haven Kmersnn. Dr.
Kmerson said that since the outbreak of
the Kuropean war and up to the end of
iasi montn ms department had sold
$105,000 worth of antitoxins, two
thirds of which had gone to the Allies.
The State law provides that the city
of New York may sell the surplus of
antitoxins produced by the department,
but that the money accruing from the
sales must be used In the production of
more antitoxins or for the prevention
and treatment of Infectious diseases.
"What's the matter with the Central
Powers didn't they get any?'1 Inquired
Albert K. Hull, assistant to President
Dowllng of the Hoard of Aldermen.
"Not very much, but that was not the
fault of the Health Department." replied
Dr. Kmerson. He said Austria had pur
chased a small quantity at the opening
of the war, but since then had been un
able to pierce the llrttt.h blockade. Ger
many, he said, was In the same fix.
The city his sent the largest amount
to the French Government, Dr. Kmer
son said, Great Ilrltaln and Itnly also
have received considerable quantities.
The Commissioner also said that the
Pasteur Institute In Paris three months
bko requested him to send over expeit
bacteriologists to explain to the Fren h
the American method of producing anti
toxins. One expert was sent nnd re
mained In the French capital a mouth.
In his budget for 1517 the Commis
sioner asked for 12,(44,403 for salaries.
The rub-committee will recommend 2,
61223, a small Increase over 1910,
DOUBT THAW DEATH REPORT.
So Confirmation llrrr uf Aine-rle-iin
Aviator Ilrlngr Killed In I'rnni-e.
PirrsiifBii, Pa.. Oct, IS. Inquiry at
the office of llenjaniln Thaw, father of
Lieut. William Thaw of the French
aviation corps and a former Yale stu
dent, brought the information that
neither Mr. Thaw nor any member of
hh? family had been notified of William
Thaw's death as reportcel In a despatch
from New Haven.
The secretary of Mrs. nenjamln
Thaw, mother of William Thaw, said In
New York jesterday that no word had
been received of his death.
"Ilenjamln Thaw, Jr., his brother, Is
In Paris, and It seems as If he would
have heard of any such think and no
titled us nt once," the secretary said. "I
do not believe the report Is authentic."
News of any accident to the Ameri
can aviators with the French army has
always reached this side promptly. The
i.e... n-itii ilie renort of Thaw's eleath
was written In Paris on September "0.
PRINCETON AGAINST WILSON.
Straw Vote Shinra Hughe Victory
by u-:i to r.it.T.
Princeton, N. J Oct. IS. In a straw-
vote taken among the students and fac
ulty ot Princeton Fnlverslty by the pa
per ho used to cent aimoi tony ycais
ago, the Daily Vrtnrf Ionian, President
WMson has lost to Charles Kvatis Hughes
by 673 to .135. Thete figures represent
the votes or tnoso wno were miner .1 a
well as the ballots of those of voting age.
Huches carried every undergraduate
class, but lost the graduate student vote
by 13 to 1 4, Wilson ran closest in tno
two upper classes. Itetums from the
ballots enst by those of voting nge shows
that Wilson lost every class except tho
Junior, In which bo won, 01 to "0. The
seniors of voting age gave Hughes a ma
jority of 31 In a vote of "HI.
Student organizations of both parties
have been extremely active and practi
cally every member of the unlveislty
e-ast a ballot excepting the faculty,
whoso vote! was light.
MEXICAN PRESIDENT IN 1017.
i;lectlona Will llr Held Knrly In
Jnuunry or February.
Mexico City. oh. IS, It became
known to-day that the elections for
Pieuldent uf tho Mexican republic will
Im colled In tho latter part ot January
or early In February of the coming
cnr. At the sanio tlnm elections for
members of Congies.i will Im held,
The holding of Presidential and Con
gressional elections at tho beginning ot
1917 would mean that tho Piesldent
would bo seated before the successful
American Presidential candidate takes
t,tllce.
Several of th" Mexican political par
ties have olYeicd First Chief Carranza
their support as candidate for tho I'rcsl-elem-y.
(IKIl.VT IIKAR HI'HINO WATKB.
tOr. I tin caaa uf tlx (! stoppered bottltl.
Adv.
KIPLING DRAWSiliSZrTrnL'LLOYD GEORGE!
POETIC PICTURE
OF SEA BATTLE
., . !
Describes Engagement oi ;
ll'l'tlll 1111(1 (rOI'IIPlll Vlontu 1
jjiui.Mi mm unman r iceis (
Off Jutland.
TKI RITE IS PAID TO
., 'perfect KnglHi. smiling thiough his
3IEN ON DESTI,()VERS!f'",-t'"It'! '" of llusli
, fioni his modish sack coat. !
"(iff duty; back at 0," says the other.
tll-l11,n. Pi.nf JI. ....... 4.'
OlIliUlCl tiait NlOWIl t()
Have Stood Up Under
Overwhelming Odds.
eeriK dibit Deipaleli to Tlir St.
ICopirlaH, int. t,y KtKiyard Kipling
V. i. A.)
in
Ilr ntlnVAItl) KIPLING.
Lonpos-, October 18.
Till: IJKSTIIOYKIIS AT JUTLAND.
"Have iioh news of my boy, Jackt"
".Vof this tide."
"Whvn d-you think that he'll come
"V.i. ...in .Li i . ..
-or uith this trintl blowlna and
IiIj tiilc.
"tins iiny our rlvj hail uvrtl of hlmt"
"Sot this title.
'or irhat Is mink will hnnllu irlm
-Vof with this wlntl blawlny anil this
title."
"Oh, ileal! what comfort can I flmlT"
".Your thh title. A'or aim title,
L'xeetit that he. didn't shame hh kind,
.Vof rtrii tetth that wind bloiciny
and that tide.
Then hold your head up all the more,
Thin tide and every title.
Heat use he iras the son yon bore.
Anil yave to that clntl blotrlnij and
that tide."
There was much. destroyer work In the
battle nt Jutland. The nctual battle
area may not hao been more than 20,
000 square miles, but Incidental patrols
from tlrst to last must Imw. i
many limes that nioa. Doubtless the
next generation will comb out every de-
an oi n. .n we need to remember is
hat there were many squadrons of bat-
tle-hlps and nulsera engaged over the
faco of the North Sea and that they vveie
accompanled In their dread comings and
goings ny multitudes of destroyers who to the Inr.lstent rorelgn anil uomestic ue-( 1Ilc i-.lInct was recontructed meant'
attacked the enemy both by day and by '"and cotton marched up to higher prices )0 thousands of Irishmen that belief
night from the nftcrnoon of .May 31 to H' "i at any tlmo sliue the civil wat. .tlll they had been betrayed. He ald
tho morning of June 1, 1S16. We are The July option sold above 19 cents, or ,u md begged Premier Asqulth to leave !
too cloe to the gigantic canvnv-to take i nl a lale. The crop Is short, but nt 1 i,,.ian,i nut of the co illll .M. The Pre
In the meaning of the picture, our chll- cents a pound It mean" an expenditure i;,d refused, and t to result was!
liicn. stepping iiackward through the
ears, may get our perspective and pro-
Iiortlons.
To tecniiltulate what every one knows,
the German fleet came out of It.. Noitl!
Sea norts ultli Its sconiini? 'i,...i
then Its desttoyers and ciulseis. Its l,at-
tie crulcn and last the main battle (Vet
In the rear. It moved north parallel with
the coast of stolen Sclilesw lg-1 loNteln
nnd Jutland. Our tlcets were nlrcadv
out. the main battle Meet of .,m'nil
Jelllcoe spfe-dlng down fioni the noith
and our battle cruiser Meet under Ad.
nn'i our nattle cruiser tleet under Ad-
mlral Itcattv feeling for the ineinv. Our
scouts came. In conlacl with the"enemv
on the afternoon nf Mav .11 about 100
miles off the Jutland 'coast, steering
northwest. They satlslled themselves he
WAS III slreiielli nml ,r.,.nr,.,. ..... .1 1 .. ..
to our battle cruiser licet at about 3 30
o-clork.
'
The I'luhl llescrlbeet. I
The enemy se-outs steered s-otitheast
to rejoin their own fleet, which was
mmlng up from that epiarter. We fought
nun on a parallel course .is lie ran for
more than an hour. Then his battle
fleet canio in sight and Heatty's tlect
went about and steered nottliwrst In
order to retire on our battle tleet, vvhlih
was hurrying ilown from the north:
then all returned, lighting cry much ,l,iy by the lturcau of Stnndatds of the
over the same waters js we had used p.'part incut of Comnierie'. The buieaii
In our slant south. The enemy up tlll s.is the sped llr- gravity test Is worth
now had lain to the eastward of u, . less and the piobl.-ui of eletln'.ng a stand
whereby he had the advantage In thatjard for gasolene Is very complex,
thick weather of seeing our hulls clear "Legislative bodies ate beginning to
against the afternoon light while he take up this question," sa tin- bureau.
himself worked In the mists. We then
steered n little to the northwest, bearing
...... . .... ... .... ... .. . . .
iVeany had'heded iZ lea-Ung '
ships and our main battle fleet came j
sight from the north.
The enemy broke back n a nop. first 1
eastward, the,, south, then rnuthw'e- as ,
our fleet edged him off from the land. 1
and our main battle fleet coming up be.
hind them, followed In their wake. Thus I
for a while wo had the enemv lo west. I
ward of us. where ho made better
mark, but the day was dosing and the !
weather thlckeneel and the enemy ,
ee-:..ne,i tn eet inc.-ie- Ai JP...- ...... c '
tho enemv. still beailiinr southee-exi ,'
"i". .'V '? . .... 1 J. ... 'KV,w'Hl.
covered by his destroyers In a great
screen of grav smoke and he got nw-.iy. i
,ib ...... uo-m (tui ii.-e-i.-. uiy neivvee-U ,
the enemy and his home ports. Hurlng
the night our heavy ships, keeping well i
clear of possible mlno llelds, nvept
down fiom tho south and west of Horn's1
Iteef, so they might pick him up la th,;
morning.
Dealrei) era Kept Iluay.
When morning came our milu fleet
could find no trace of tiie enemy to south'
waul, but our dostrover flotillas fnrth..r,
north had been very busy with the
enemy's ships, apparently running for
Horn's iteef channel, It looks, then, as
If when we loH slfiht of the enemy In
his smoke screen and the darkness he hid
changed nih course ami nroKen for home
astern or our main neets, ami whether
that was a sound mnno-uvre or either.
wise, he and tho still Mows of thn Noith
u..i tilni.A ri.M lell. Itltt tin... Im n .....
i. .1... nm. mimnni ,..-.. '..!.,. i......iiv ver 1,,-eii 11 i.iyieii. I,, i...
nlTalr where a whole country's coastline
iiiiu fct.- .- ,-imi. iji ji i
was background to a battle covering
geographical degrees?
i nr 1V-.--IM" s..' n 1-nr.nin .1, ,i.
........... ., ll'A ,. . ... h.a. .. . ,,
limitamo gray waters nicKeit on
their uncertain horizons with snmdijo
and blur of ships, sparkling with finy
against ships hidden under tho e-urvo of
tho world. One sees these dNtances
maddenlliKlv obscured by walking mists
Hiul weak fogs, or wiped out by layers
of funnel and gun siiioko ami realizes ,
how at the pace tho ships wern going '
anv thing might be stumbled upon In tho1
haze or charge, out of It when It lifted ,
Onn comprehends, too, how the fur off
L.b.re of a if.it ves-e-l ullre mk-ht bn 1
rcnorted ns a local fire on a nearby
enemy, or vlco -crsu, how a fcllhouetto
Conlinurcf on Second Pag:
How the Men llehlnil the Conn
ivy Do Full for His Winning
Lottery Tickets.
All over New York salesmen In cigar
Mo,e.. bartenders nn.i almost every sort
of iinnhnee who stands behind a counter
"le looking for . i Clilnaman, l,ee by name, '
,, M,,B tU,!(r oV,,r,,,, m, Mraim
hletoglyphs that he ni are sure to
win In a big Chinese lottery ho runs
I uimewliere In Pourn ettth btreet. i
I Lo woiIih his game by going Into a
I shop wheie the names nf the salesmen
' ale poted on the wall ra k.
"Where's Mr. So and So J" he asks In
salem.iu.
"That's very bad," murmurs Iz-e with'
n smllo that Is pensive and ihlldllke.
'He won t.'iO In the lottery this week
p Mil I wanted to give It to him."
I The saleMiian on duty falls. Lee tells
him all about the lottery and consents I
to sell l lm scleral tickets at two dollars
each, For a certain sum additional he
will guaiautee that the salesman's mini-
ber shall win next time. Then he passes
i on to another place, never to be seen 1
I :i Rain. After a few days the lctltn
riisnes iiiinn in ..i w esi rounrcnui
tr..ei ir. ...i.irn.a ..I, ih. lnimrv iirket. '
on. 1 ,i.ta 1, 1. .. i.n.u.... t..linr..
'
' ., " '
None of the victims h.is dared to np-l
nenl in ll,e llr. fi I. n n,t.lnmennnr
to buy a lottery ticket, as Lee, probably
knows. Ho has sold many tickets. One
of his chief sources of revenue recently
nailery, in iv
street nnd Klghth aieiiue,
was Abbott's bakery, nt Twenty-second
Tho em-
idoyees there boiiRl t H0 worth one even-
Ing because he said Jim, u day man, had
won ninety doll.u..
CONSUMER'S PURSE
GETS MORE JOLTS
Cotton nt lliirhost Murk Since
Civil Wnr nnd Other Coiu-
moilities It isc.
Yesterday was a hard dav for the ultl-
mate consumer. Many of the things he
. ... ..
'" "ny advanced wen anove me rec-
ord prl.es of recent veals. In other
commodities the markets were firm. In
. , .,,,,, ... .r , n-i.i.nin nf th.
""'e could he .llcem a llslitenlng of the
1'Urden on the pocketboo't. '
Thanks to a tropical storm aa well as i
" more man i.uuu.vvc.vuw m me ie-iiinr
"'a' buy ...
May wheat In Chicago sold at 11 6
a bushel. In tho Lister corner In lS'.'S
wheat -'Id In that market at 1 bat
there were then a Kunpean rrop fail-
llr'' and a war with Spun as vwlt
a rash bull movement. Apart from the
Lelter coiner ves'erday's (.rice has been
eq-ialled In the past twe-.ty-elght ears
"!,1V ,,lf' matkrt of February. l!'l.-,.
I'10 l!urpean eb-mand wis mo
beetle, though the American supply n
tun h greater thai. now.
"'" " K'-aier iium iw.
sl" 1 "'"'at sM In New York ester-
dav at a bushel. A .-ar ago the e-.m-
mater tould get It fnr $1.10. e'orn was
'It'!'.-. aKain-t 77 cents last jear.
l''!'r wlu.h could be bad at $5 7.1 last
Vl-.lT rost XO V l-stl-nbiy . l-IIll Wl
"' 'l'--."". as e'.-mparcl with fliU.. last
.vear. pork at 130 T.n. a-jaiust SI. ; sugar
at cents, against 1.15 cents.
U. S. WARNS ABOUT GASOLENE.
Dnimrr In llnaty I'IxIiik of Stnnil-
nrela Pe.liili'il (Int.
W.vslttNr.ToN, net. IS A statement
In the nature of a warning against
busty State anil
ii'xIhk gasolene st.
municipal legls'atlnn
fivlnc r-:eei1ene KtandanU was Issued to.
and much of tne legislation n ce-rtain
1,1 '"' '' advised, although e-nncted with
t.n.. . , rti.l Iiimm l.ni.'.O.e 1, P1,,nl I.,
i'-gs receive ,, carefui
J'Xr
U r J f r I In P'0,,,! ' '
'.,f ''" ""' ''' l,1,n"; " ,r' 1 "
J e 1 "J ; ''
' i""ure lo"u,t101" """lng short
,'.,i ,n,ii.. ni.. i.
... . 'L' ' .....Vi....."i '.'.:, .. ....
... .' ...,.. '.! . " ' . . . "r
,,?e .cesm, """ fe""K
'"" " '., ltrl'st! nd T.'1"1' l,,,,R "H ,W ''""l "" """
f.sinr,, hltose t In ,e Is nctual cei tlRl.tlnt for the lights of small
''fm". . '""!.." .. ,IMII Kv' ' nationalities in Kuiope, Is maintaining
. .. . . Tu ... V, . ,i i. '
ho cannot possibly elo so: (lie Govern-
ment. national. State or municipal, must '
protect him by n suitiblo Inspection.
TAXI TO THEATRE BANNED.
(ierinnny Wnnt Vrhle-lrs for More
Important .Se-rvli-r,
Iliiil.lN (via London). Oct H Her -
liners in the near future will havn
endeavor to arrive at tile theatres In
time withi-'Jt the use of automobile taxi-'
cabs. 11 Is planned to forbid the use of
these v.-hhies for trlis to and from the-
aire-, conceit halls , ud other pla- es of
ainuse-mcnl. The taxleahs thus freed, It
Is hoped, will bo available to servo nioit -
, Important purposes.
At tli" negiuniug or ine war iimre were
-e were
i"ln- 1,
reduced
,veen the
res there
2, 'inn automeinio laxicaos runnin
. llerlln. Thla number lias tieen
I to S00. nnd during the time betw
! n.. ai.I.i.. fi 11,1 .inHlllIT of thn thei.lr.m
,,... j .......... ... ....
had,
-ijatw UICT.T) TITS. TWO VTTT.TT)
I nnil. UUiJU KJ A. m. ,1 V. ...UMUil,
r -
Ililiri'.. llobbed i-nr
.. ..
llllss, (lum.
ni.tss. nU'1.1 Oct IS.-The Atchison.
ropeka and Santa F mall express tinln,
! N" southbound, was held up nnd
inuneu oy a oao'i ei i"-i '"
to-ulghl.
An express messenger nnd a baggage,
in-m who.- liamu have not b.-.'n learned
wero shot and klllcel by the bandits,
After looting the train the robber
escaped In an nutomoblle.
Police have been sent by special train
from Perry, It Is repoited, and have
taken up the trull of the robber.
BEGS MORE MEN
FROM IRELAND
. . , ,
Appeals to All Parties to
Place Army's Needs Be
fore Everything.
ISLAND TO REMAIN
1'NDER MARTIAL LAWi"c,f'"fl1 113 "'factory by Secretary
. ,.,,. i, li.l,.:,,,- n.,,1
AMII1I II, J(epi,Mllg 10 J((MI-,
.. . ,
iihmhi. .ii s i nun ri ion
Are Abnormal.
Loniio.v, Oct. 1. Parliament after a
set debate In tho House of Commons to
day decided bv a majority of p.iT that
i ... .
"''""... mi uie ,.,wr.L ....,,
itodisaim the Irish political situation. .
Tlle I rlnl question wns brought up by
.Inlin lllmm.. II. e V..llni,r.ll.t le.i.ter.
n0 introduced a motion to tho effect
, . . I
,,Mt t,,e ttm ot Kovcrnment at pres-1
cut maintained In Ireland l Inconsistent
with the principle for which the Allies
ale lighting In Kurope. ami Is or has
been, mainly t expansible for the recent
tinh'ippy events and for the present state
i f feeling In that country."
An amendment to this motion, Intro-
duc,;! by John 1". P. Itaw llnon, repre
seining Cambridge fnlverslty, declared
that "It Is nnt desirable at the pre-ent
time to discuss contte.versl.il matters of
domestic polifcs." Tht aineiidmint was
ndopte.1 by a vote of 33 to 106.
Irish Pnrty Dlsnpi.oliit.il.
The remarks of the Premier nnd the
. . . .
ir:ii secretary indicated mat thre was
no present lutentl'in of the Government
to eh.iliRe Its .olicy tow. ml Inland,
whli'h i.roved very eilsappolntlng to the
i Irish party.
It win made evident by the elebate
i that the Government has no Intention of
1 applying conscription to Ireland, Mr.
Llovd George, the Secretary for war.
;'" admitting that It Mi ';;'
it the beginning of the war had be'n
ln:!.i,,,ded. made a fervent nt
.n to alt turtles to help Mr. Itcdinoud
levive that lost enthusiasm and so stlm-
ulate jecrultlng In Ireland.
;)r ,,,mml tn nclll!,on nf ,
s:r Kdward Carson, the F'.ster Fnlonl.t
j.jder. In the coalition government when
f !.
Mr P.edmond said the sltuitlon was'.,, ",, ' cf thf fiinno employers of
full of meimee and d-incer : of menace to ' . ' .. ,...
th"h,.. T1,',"1:,, A' Klll",n' Im'- " '
to a good undi rstandliu- betwe-e.i Gie.it
Hiltim and Ireland, and full f metia.e
l II-.. lil-irl ll-.tei.sts of the ellll.lle.it
t-e present niotnent, and c mtrasted this
,,,.,. nf arrius with the acniiuie enthu-
h,,Mn fnP ,10 .llle-s nt the beginning of
,, ttar.
Jv 0),jP(.t , tn allnv, not to InM.ime,
f,elliiR, and to -how how It Is possible-
to s.im- the situation." I- . e.ntltiued.
to saie the situation, te e ontitiuen.
..n,m n,,. ,.rv rtrst tie .rfoits of tho
..,tionallst leaders were thwarted aid
Mll,i,t.d, un, looking back I am a'liin. d
nt the sueee-s whb h. under tho clr.um-
tances, nttende'd their efforts, liflatid
i--,- , .1,., ,.r,nv u l,T,i
iC.iiih) v-'e- e Caiholli", and lii.'oin In Pc nutted to weuk ur.t.l noon and then d.s
navv. Tlnitv thousand Nationalist v ol- chaieed.
i. ...i .,u. ...,l ,....l if I, I....I .we When It liec.lilie shop go'sip that
ii er a,..-s! ,.f i,.. In th.- earlv
., .... ...... . .. ...
,,.,-Vs would hive been tn-M.-il "
The llr.al blow came In the formation
f il-e coalition gov el n-neiit. the Irish
leader eeclared. Prom that elay recruit-
l,r for the :.rniv bad diminished and re.
cruPIng of tin- Sinn Felncrs had In-
cieased. From that day things went
from bad to worse and finally came the
I ebelllon.
H ll I Ii tfrlcn nn el Ireliitnl,
"1 am profoundly com luced that If the
rllng had been dealt with tu tie spirit
with which Premier Hatha dealt with tho.
lising In South Africa It would Jiave
Ille-alll ine savins tn ine siiii..vion ...i
lti-dliind went on. "Ireland was ele.
nounc-d because a couple of thousand
had
South frlcai Iieland which hadn't had
, ,en ers experience with free Instltu-
, ' ukl Snti, x f rj,.,.
. lUUTlu can onlv- be ,e,
linl(,ly Brill,p;,IW wtll ,p ,,, ,,,,.
tl'ou," continued Mr. Itedmnml. "So long
'..m the present slate of government ex-
Ints In Ireland, so long will the piesent
i bv martial law the liuoi.isl goveinineiit
,.. .- ..m f the neonle of Ireland
no real Improvement ran be hoped for
"Let the Government withdraw mar
tial law and put In I'oinnmnd of the
fotccs In Ireland a man who has not
been enrnrctrd with the unhappy trans
actions of the past. Let the admlnlstra-
' I"1' ,,u defeiu-e eif the- le alm act bo
as stringent as you like, but animated
bv the same spirit and carried Into I'l'fect
'by tho same inaiiilneiy us In Gicat
tn'lliltaln. Lei Ih UOu uiitrle " prlsoni-iH
he iclcascd.
i "rt'emts II nine- Hole- Nenr.
..iiCt t10 penal servitude prlsnrers be
neated aspolitic.il prisoner, and above
, n jPt the Government take courage In
ln., ,,,, lmnds and trust the Irish neoi.lo
I,,,,,.,, ud fr i,u by putting the home I
I rule act In operation, and i.-solutely end , ', "Z"U" i ?'",
- ,,,, ,ta WI1 tcspouslblllty face ,,y ,,rob-' ' 1,1 '. no0 t' xi'rs
lt,,s which tliat might entail." , '" S ' , f i , 'iiiS h,i 1
Henry K. I hike, chief s.-cretarv forAM"'1 l,lr' , ot l '7' ,t,"1;
! Ireland, said Im iceognlzcl , mer-, "'r 1,11 0nM, ",r'"' r "x '"
I rule act In operation, and
... i,.e ,.....i.
.niiiu. ill .oi ir-i-i, ..-.it .i.tniior. ..
found deslte that Iieland should piny
a unit In tills great stiuggle worthv of
, MKhcol tradition, of the Irish pen-
.... '.'..n ..... I . 1.. I,,.. .-a I .1
'jue. .i i " i "i"' " ..-j iiiniinii.i,
I with which mis -null and I leln ml
,-onf ronteel was whether I,....
I Great Ilrltaln was lighting for her ex-
'istcnce Ireland, fiom one causa or an.
I t,er. should stand aside,
Mr, puku said that 50 men sl in
j tcrned for participation In the Irish up
rising were ringleaders, nnd be asked;
Do the Nationalists desire .Mln trials,
for treason with the coiiseqiii-nces which
would follow"" The time had not come.
lie. continued, when many of thn In
tcrned men could safely bo allowed to
return to the countryside.
There must ho xonio restraint, ho in-
'Continued on Second Pag.
w"Wf
AGREEMENT
President Declared to Be Playing Politics in Delaying
Formal Publication of Settlement Until After
Election Denial Held to Be Evasion.
VVamiinhto.v, Ort. 18. Following the
publication In TttK Sl'N of a paraphrase
of Count von Hernstorff's note to Secre
tary Lansing of February 16 outlining
tin- basis of settlement of the Lusltahla
caso It was said authoritatively to-day
that tho note would probably not be
made public until after i lection.
lis terms and phraseology have been
i Lansing, and the German Government
una I.,fr,.l nill.lllu .1. .,w,il,. ,
ago, but until the note Is published and
the final formalities compiled with thls
Govelilment will nnl lm ulllr nllv hi ree. i
old as accepting It, understood that these points were gone
Count von llernstorff, the German "ver very carefully.
Ambassador, who has not discussed the If Count von llernstorff took Secrc
l.iisltanla case with the State 1 1, part- tary Tuuiult'.i denial from Shadow
nieiil since the note of February 1 waseiwn as being serious there probably
iicctpted, said to-day that he had made i would be a stir in German Fotelgn otllce
It a point not to talk about the Lusl-1 circles because It has been understood
tatila settlement to anv one. ""'le for months that the Lusltanla
Acting Secretary Polk declined to
comment on the paraphrase of the note
or to cuiilli in or den v tlia t tho note de- ,
. ,. , ,, , ., '
s riocd the actual attack on the l.u.l
t,.., ,. tn.tlib.l.!... nr n.ut tl... t'i,u..i I
States yleldid to Germany on the ques-
-disavowal or tbe act." 1
Mr. Polk'a Statement.
Mr. Polk authorized thla statement: I
No statement Is to be given out.
The note has not been accepted. The I
State Department l not going to be I
drawn lilt o u dlscusstOH of It at the '
present time. 1
Later, after a telephone conversation
w- in ;iiaiiw i.avvn aooui ine note, .Mr.
roll; re-llerate'd his statement, but le-
fqsi'd to comment on the published terms
of the note.
oitlclals and diplomats pointed out to-
day that full leports that appeared in
the pr.-s last February con'alned an-
n.uince.nents by the State Department
,v the German Govermnetit that
Geima'ny h.nl refu.ed either to ellsavow
.1... ..l.u... ..t .1... I ......... i . ... ... .1.
un.- ,.u.i.i.i..i ... ... ..:-
.'.are ll lieilli.
I in February 16 It was oillelally nn-
nounrcd that the note from Count on
Hvriu-toin had met with Secretary Lan-
800 EMPLOYEES OF
EDISON ON STRIKE
Vfllk Ollt Followinnr DiS-
ehurgc of Secretary of Pro
tective Association.
Wkst OnAS-or., N. J., Oct. 1' Retween
this afternoon to enforce a demand tor
t'.ie relrstatement of Neal 1 . White, a
e. .rlonnn ee bo was illcharRed. It will
,,,t,.,bly be elelerm'.ned at a meeting
to-morrow mmnlng whether the strike
ve il extend further In the great electrical
plant.
White s secretary of the recently or-
caiilz.el KdNon Protective Association,
snppenedly fonned to foter an otgan-
si,ipoeiuy immeu u n-.v. ....
:?.-d labor iiiovemeiit In the Ldlson
wotk., long known as an open shop Die-
s.crctary d.d not report for work Moti-
day or Tuesday, and when lie nppeai.-el
tin mottling explaltn-d that Ills at.-
s.-n.-e was ,1 -le- to ! .Iiess lie was per-
While was in fi la-ks e.f cx-employees
elii-te- tl im nl'.H'll ct iimblinR In the various
elepirtments and eliirtng the afternoon
his mpathlrcrs "truck. They ln.iuil.il
R'ln.lets, m.llw I Ignm. Mine nanus alio
" .
The men s.il.l tliey nail l ie impre-smn
White was let e-ut because lie was secre-
'" K ", Z'''1"!'? V-'-m, J Te?
"-. .-
sunnily to blame for his discharge
A coniinltte e fiom the plant had a conference-
th's afternoon with a committee
leiitcscntlng tbe sllikfls. No settlement
f the dltliculty was in sight to-nlglit.
Futtlier meetlnis weie planu-d.
The police w.-te called out to prevent
possible tumble. Nothing happened.
nowi'ver, in iiiiu- aii..o.,.t, ee w.in ,,i.,
that Mr l.'.li.-on was not Informed of
the filction in the plant until long after I
xU
GIRL OF 11 AWARDED $7,500.
Po.be.l (in Mili-vvnlU Vhcii Holler
SUntliig:, She ve-r.
Mildred Mnller, 11 .ve.irs old, was
Mildred Mnller, II .ve.irs old,
awarded 7.M''. and her mother, Mr-
M"y WM n"'ar'",', ' "
J,"'N M"r" tS"l"vm' f'"l,rt '"'""'',
7ck ye-terday In a Ml t to r.-..ver dam-
ages for injuries the child suffered when.
nccoiding to tier testimony, sue was
im-hed mf the sidewalk while roller:
skathig by llorrles Friedman, Janitor of most of their time In Kngland since their
l-.i2-l-.ix llr.nlhurst avenue. Imair.age Iheie in June, 1?07, and their
Following an Injury to her spine when tilps to this count ty have been Infrc
she fell mi September 0, 1011, the girl quent
was unable to walk for a year. Kdward' Kdna May is remembered as the sts.r
l.auleibi.ii. attoinev for the plaintiff,
asked for siiostaiill.il damages for both
, child and p uvtit for the loss of Mildred's
services, ii. (i. I 'uackenlnisli, attorney
for the owner of the apartment house,
, maintained that the child slipped a eel-
! dentally while roller coasting.
TWO WOMEN HURT BY MOTOR.
i'e-nl's Wheel (Iff Their Vle-torln nnil
Injuries Xlnj lie THeirtnl.
Two women may die as the result nf
'horse draw ii victoria, iter car tore ,1
. . .. ... .. .,
1 w,u'rl ,rc'" . , ",m;""t, "
" "' " 1,1
r" "':. u, ,ft ,
I ...IS. ...... .'II ' I , I ,,, U", ,11,' I, I- ,1.
i .. . u,.,.!,, u-.io, ii.,.,.
' "h" ' :,,, ' , , , .
street, suffered a fiactured Hillll and
'lis. Sarah A. Morgan. 74. a widow, of
Hport. I- ' a possible frac tiro of
the skull and seveio cms nun liruiscK,
They weie taken to Washington Heights
Hospital.
All uiiliieniiiieu man was xiiieu nv an
automobile) at l.Stli street and Th.nl
I avenuo at 7.30 o clock last night, lie
1 was apparently a German nnd was about
40 years old.
Alii: YOU Itt'N IIOWN?
Pe-we-y's Port Wine Ollvei oil will build
ton up. 1 1.00 ut your ilt-ulFr or 1 3 s Fulton
ft 81 Na.sau JjU.,,N. Y, i'hon. 1001 Cort.
Adv.
T0.REX3Ak
ON LUSITANIA
sing's approval, but It was explained
that the settlement would not lie an
nounced until thn Pnlted States was sat
isfied that Germany would cease making
attacks without warning on passenger
ships.
The terms of this settlement, ns out
lined In t tic note of February 10, have
been kept uccrct until jistcrday.
(iron ml ( nrefiill)' CiMered.
From the vlewnolnt of International
law one question talsed, It Is explained,
's wiicmcr ;iin licuiai HiiacK un iu
(inmv t .uunl K..n I.a litttllftntitn VfllPtl
t necesxarlly Implies Jeopardizing Amer-
hnn lives mid affecting ncutial rights.
wnicll are lielll to lie ItlVlollUC. Jl la
case is semen anil niai wns semcmem.
will be utinounced as soon ns the I tilted
Sta tea Is convinced that tho German
K,1,,..,rli,e ledL-e 1i..m been kent
The technical difference between an
otllclal settlement through publication of
nie 1101c liner us coiuii 111..110,.
German Foreign Secretary and settle
, ment through mu'unl agreement between
.,1,',,!1i,i i ,i, , ,i,, ,,, rreatlv
Inter.si Iterlln. It Is said, but Germany
would like to sec the matter formally
disposed of, as this would be regarded
as an assurance from the Fnlted State's i
1 lift t the submarine pledge had been re-
garded as kept.
" ... 'With danger ns to-day. with 300
Secretary of State Lansing said at the, ,.,ri ,I.,i.,n.. ,,..,a
Hotel Ililtm.-re last night: "I will not 1 rcc" marines uructlc.illv surround-
dlscu. the case. Mr. Polk, actltg Sec- lug King Constantino's palace mul the
re'iiry of State-, has said all that will be ,)eoie of ,theiw s'lrre'd lei furv bv tho
forthcoming from my department." People or Athens h.lrred te. fur b the
Mr Lansing will leave the city this vigorous measures taken by the 13n-
morning for Albany, arriving there about lcMc to PufPBtiarl Gen. Sarrall's army.
.....it, II., uil.l ,.a ..v,i..u In I... ,li.e:. tnl
... .... ....
llirru oil nustoesn mi ti uin-i line; ii.
will then continue on his way to Water-
a'few- davs.0"10 "'
. ,
ALL AVAILABLE MEN
TO HUNT FOR VILLA',
" orders will be obeyed. Greek troop
Carranza Sends Word He Willaro i""'"" "raw- with eimicuity.
Wage Energetic Campaign ' Av''m ,a l'nltr,l .
The Putted States Government and
Against Bandit, people are appealed to by the large pro-
portion of the Gree-k population who
Att.antii Citt, N J., Oct. IS. Supple-
'r!;l assurances from Gen. Cananzn
that he N beginning a new and vigorous
""iipalgn agaln-l Villa wre re.elve.l
to.,piy i,y bis lepie'entatlves on thn
.Menan-.nierican Joint e.ommlsslon.
The he-ad e.f the de faeto Mexican Gov-
eminent asserted nil available troops
would be usi-d In the imrsuit of the
bandit.
The American Commlssk
nt the jolt.t session a cine
statement of the Mexican r
loners reviewed
efully prcp-ircil
renresxntntimis
a.- to conditions n well us proposals for
I f'sleip.'.tton Mini I. tl. 1 tit e ll; ore nr ne.'.ee
nlomr the fionller. This statement also
in. luded aiRiimeuts designed to show
why the Aineil.au troops should be
withdrawn from Chihuahua.
The Mexl.ans Insist they nre capable
of dilvltie; Villa and other outlaws away
fiom the bonier, but the Americans' at
titude is that they must demonstrate
ability to elo more than that. Th
r.'- tlnig the control of the border mut
1P ,,,fed tipon a reasonable Indication
t.;lt the Mexican nnthfirlties are capable
m i-maniing I'lieciive governmeni in
the Intel tor
, 'n,e vvilllngne.s of the Americans not
,P me" '''""I'Uance with their sugges-1
tions ai nil" nine is uue io a nop mat
Gen Cananza may bn able to dtre,-t a
. .. . r.. , en..
slli-eessful warfale ncalnst Villa,
It was learned to-iiny Hint tne troop.
sent tiorthwanl yesterday were not In- Cot.M.mtliie KnRl.Y-ls, Coiisiantlne Cot
tended for the rainjialRti ncalnt Villa. ' seas. G Itousos an-1 Tlieniistocles Ta
t.ut to relieve troops at Aguasoallentes h,.,rls Thev could not see Mr. IlroD-
KPnt ,;,,,, Tenrfon to relieve other.!
ind .acntecas. vvlin In turn would be
that would be sent Into the hills In
search of Villa.
EDNA MAY UNDER KNIFE.
i Mrs, Osenr I.evvlsobn Opernted nn
for Appendli-ltls.
Mrs. fiscal l.ewlsolin, who used to be
Kdna May of musical comedy fam. was
oi.erate.l on for appendicitis esterd.iy at
the Woman's Hospital. HI West moth
street. Last night her condlt.nn was
said to be Improving Mrs Isnlm
was taken to tin- hospital several days
iro fiom the Plaza Hotel, where she and
her husband are nuking tlnlr home
Me .,,,,1 Mrs Lewlsnhn have soent
! of "The llel'.e of New York" and oilier
' musical pic. -s vvli.ch made hits ten years
or more ago. She made her tlrst Llg
Impression in London nnd then was wel -
coined back te Ne-w Yotk She was also
in -Tne- i-ii'U oi ine .icasnn aim in
"l'll S.-hoolgli ! "
U. S. IS 'BENEVOLENT NEUTRAL.'
111.,,,,,. s ( nils Amerle-nn AUI.nrle
Tininril llrltnln.
ST. Lot-is. O.-t. 1! Tho ItlRht Rev.
11 -.......,...inu iiiui,n a.
WoV. o.ter. Kngland, In an address before I th" Impartial Anici i.-an pres. i, the only
the llusmrss Men's League hern to-day ar hefo, e which Greece can obtain Jus
said he siw In the extraordinary mental I ''cs Bl"1 "J''"!''""'
and moral movement awakened In Kng-
laud by the war an iulltience that will
bring back tbe spirit of religion and solve
a problem of cipltal and labor.
lie added that Kngland expects of the
i linen ciaics iioriuK ine war a nrnevo.
Fnlted States during the war a benevo
lent neutrality that will enable the
I o ,,,.,., ..
Fnlted State nt the end of the war
take the lead In a movement for world I It Is said that the pru-iiei man lean-peace-.
"And this neutrality," hn said, lings of the King, the Cabinet and ilia
"Is what we have had,"
I'rltirraa Wed a a DrnKgist
I.oNPoN, Oct, IR. The Frnnkfnru r ' ,.,ptcd Ills offrr m Join tnem and financed
cllmit announces the rn.irrl.iiw of i bm and his nrmv tin in g u turn th
lilncess Mario Tlierese of 1 lolie-nlohe to army against llicni
tilto Kohh-lsen of Innsbruck, an apoihe. Athens despatches say that K'tig Con.
cary and descendant of a humble Aus- stautlne told the Hrmsli M -Ulster Tues
triaii family. dUy evening that the suspicion that
The Princess nursed Knhlelsen whlln i Greece Intended an attack on Sarrall
ho was In a hospital suffering from an wai groundless. As proof of his tuod
Illness contracted on the battlefield. faith the King ti Mid to have declared,
GREEKS. THRONE
TOTTERING, ASK
HELP FROM U. S.
French Troops Surround
King's Palace and People
Arc Stirred to Fury.
DECLARE NATION
IS FOR NEUTRALITY
Committee's Plea to Amer
ica Is Handed to Envoy
for Transmission.
ALLIES DECLINE TO
TRUST CONSTANTINB
Fear 3Ionarch Would Turn
Against Them If Army
Were Organized.
I London, Oct. IS. Never has th
slttmtlon in Greec? been so fraught
. . donl.i
i King Constantino lx known to feel
tl,!,t vcr-v "M'fneo of Grcccu Is at
i stake, lie has orelered that demon;
Ftrutlons against the l.'ntento must
cease because of the possible conse
quenecs. With public opinion In-
) Ilamed by the pre-sencc of the marine
at Athens and the I 'I runs It Is scarcely
possible to assert that even the King's
tescnt what they consider aggtesslon
by the Kntente. An Kxcbangn Tela-
' , u.spat.h savs the Greek Gov
' !" ne io
nas piotest.M to neutral Pow
ers against the manner of applii'atlon of
police control In Alliens, saying it Is a
. , ...
i.mii nuveram ngnu
, of ' ireece.
anil the- sympathy of the American peo-
P'e aro askni Hi a n solution drawn up
''V crowd of thousands that marched
i" uie rtuiernaii j.emiiioii. ine Asso
l.i ted Piess has been calli-d upon by
nss.niblag.. lo Inform
thn
world through the- Am.-rk-an press of
tin- opptesslun to which Greece Is sub
jected by the Allies.
Th- appeal p. tin- Fnlted Stairs will ho
foi warded te. Washington by the Ameri
can .Minister. C.arett Piopper. Mr.
Uroppeis expiess.il tbe opinion that tho
demonstration befote the legation and the
at'lie - al ta AnietlCi Wele epl. lo the r.
l,orth publiMicI In some of the papers
. that an Anieri-.in tl.et of thirty vessels
a e'miiiK lii Alliens ! no crowd car-
Iic.l big Gleek and American IIirs and
ehet red repeated. y for tin- I'nite-d States.
I'eimnilttcr nt Li'Kallon.
The iivtltlou wan i.trKpiited bv a com.
mltteo of six Greed;-, one of whom
. . ..v....
named Klll.ls, lias lived In M.iwlsslppl.
T1. n.,m,.s u..re V..ns v.ai.
,.rs at tlrst. for he did n it w ,sl, i,. ,....
I'l'. n niTlli. ntlit llie Im-iitl,,,, H,...rl.,ll ...
...,,vierc.i Mr t.i,.r. i .v..
' w,tjW the American Club across the
' way and watclie.l tlin denionstratlon,
i later recelvils- tho eb-leatniu
! 'Iho lesolntlon m.vs that the Greek
rltlrens decided to lemaln neutral be
cause they do not think It to their In
terest to participate. In the Kuropean
war. and ct both gtoups of belligerents
ate tryln.-T to force Gicece to fight No
one group, tho Kntente, has seized th
Greek capital The lesolntlon continues:
Uo are iinnie the American pcopl
always liavo fought for liberty against
I slaverv nnd tlieiefore appeal to their
pnwei rut intiuence to avert tne subjuga
tion of those who desire only to lemaln
free. Owing to our exceptional position
with resjiect to the Powers In the con
flict fucIi Influence .an bo exeicised ef
ficaciously only by Ameitca We trust
that th" noble Anieiiean people will lend
a s.vmpathetlc ear to our appeal, and
call for three cheers for the American
I people Hurrah ' Hurrah ' Hurrah '
, Hoyalist newspaper pnblnhcd yea-
I tetday iiinrnlng a half page editorial
calling upon tin- Associated Press to
voice "the far training m' addressed
pot only to a defenceless people which
Is forced to leave neiilraliv under th
whin of violence, but to the whole unl-
I verse embodvllig all the I' e.ilciilahla
",or:l' '"r';,0 Tl' I'Tl.iV,' '!!"., "V"
tlce against the unforgettable. Intimities
being i-niiimlttisl, tei the elrs' i t.-tlon of
i ne iioerues oi iiei.,.-.
II declares that
Allied Coinniniiders tcrrr,
Vice Adu.lial du Fou-net's acls In rj.
mandlng possession of ships, tnrbor and
jsillce and lauding tiii-iu.s weie agreed
upon by all the all rd governments to
safeguard the eivnmiinnMt' n ot Gen,
toiSerrall's aimy, delayed des,pat--hcs say
commanders of the ntmy and n ivy Im
pel lllcd tlm campaign against 'he Hub
gnrlans. It was fell that tin- King could
not he trusted, aid that ir tne Allies nc-
