TTNANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenmn
mrtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. m. no. ai
CUNARD LINE SHIP
; SUNK BY MINE; ALL
PASSENGERS SAFE
Llaunia, New York to Lon-
i don, LiOsxj m jmhmisii
Channel
10 AMERICANS RESCUED
Sailed From This Side Hnlf
Hour After U-53 Arrived
at Newport
-. nf vnntr nrt. 19. Th Cunard
IflJner Alaunla, which left New York for
Ejylmouth and Iiondon on October 8, with
PL ..nKinrera. struck a mine In the Ung-
f Hh Chnnel earlw today and sank before
F'aeefli according to a cablegram received
i the Cunard Line this afternoon. All tne
ILsengers are safe, having been landed at
1 j"almouth.
' .. ..u.tm Midtd that the captain
rV in" "".?."""". .,
ted part or tne crew were wnm.
ni,-il of the Cunard Line eald they be-
rHered the vessel struck the mine while on
f kr way from Falmouth to Lonaon.
fc, t was possible, the steamship officials
y i.ii .lit. that the passengers had been
feVawt from Falmouth to London to save time.
HAD 18.000 TONS OF CAIIOU
When the Alaunla left this port she car
Vied l.O0O tons of cargo, a largo part of
which consisted of war supplies. ,
' The Alaunla was a vessel of 161 tons.
gfee was commanded by Captain II. M Benl-
ion.
Tha text of the cablegram received at the
Canard offices follows:
:. "" "AUunla struck a mlno In English Chan-
lml this morning. Sank during forenoon,
ilcaetaln II. M. Denlson and majority of
ft arew saved. Somemtsslng."
ATtMED FOn DEFENSE
El The Alaunla was armed for "defense
; against submarines, mciuaea among ncr
j'aenSera wcre ten Americans. She sailed
f'from New York on the same day that the
ViAMHMn atiKmnrlnA TT-B3 nnneared In New
ort harbor, leaving her pier about half
an hour after tne unaersea uguicr noo
fj The report of the arrival of the TJ-63 In
American waters reached the cunara Line
RclaU lust before the Alaunla sailed,
aptaln Roberts and 'Assistant Mnnager
. t. witbar tcht aboard and told Can-
tin Denlson to take every precaution. An
irt was maapMo cu mo un -'
nan submarine's arrival at Newport a
- -k tnM 4(m niiitiineArfl.
(The jtlaunla waa '610 feet long and 84
' Jet In dhs beam. She couiu maKe an nv
'irage speed of about slxen'Lnots. '
I Th liner carried only first-class passen-
LT
1ST WRECKS MINE;
20 MEN MAY BE DEAD
jerrific Explosion Destroys West
JJ Virginia Colliery Fear for
Workers' Lives
FAIRMONT, W. Va., Oct. 19. A terrific
explosion this afternoon wrecked the Jam
ison Number 7 coal mlno here. Omdals
ref the Jamison Coal Company, who owned
1 the mine, declared tbat not more than
. twenty men were In the mlno at the time
f 4f the explosion. It Is feared all In the
line are dead.
f'J The mine had not been working for days
n account of the car shortage. About
wenty men had gone Into the mine today
. jo make repairs. Officials expressed the be-
Ut that some of these men may not have
Fen In the mine at the time of the explo-
F'sten, as many went to their homes between
It and I o'clock for the noon meal. More
E than 200 men are normally employed In
the mine.
THREE NEGROES HURT IN FALL
tfwe Working on Scaffold nt 27th and
Diamond Streets
v Three necro labor A-s. at work on a
4aUfold at the side of a brldgo spanning
psaa Pennsylvania Railroad tracks at Tjwen
, tr-eeventh and plamond streets, fell twenty
t hat to the tracks when the scaffold, weak-
S.""fd by vibrations of passipg trains, gave
r uir mem mis aiternoon.
Thrty are SDencer Buntv. fortv-alx vears
fa 4L 4lt dU PAnt BlrAAf PnvhnMMiirh. 'UTaI.
Me-'Oreay. forty years old, 2959 Edgeley
T ' "" Louis nopowell, twenty-six
mars old, tSJJ Priscllla street Hopewell
i tnt home; the others to Northwestern
rai HosplUl.
' 'j '
Farmer (Trilahad Iiv Trurlr
U.NCABTKR. Pa., Oct. 19. Abraham D.
-. H prominent truck farmer or
". as round last night crushed
his tnotnrtriiAlr. ahAut a iIa nM
Jl'"? JJ w" thought that ho was
- .ivii, nia boh aBn run overi
HE WEATHER
FOHSCAST '
fr PhiladtlphU and vtrimtyRain
w fridff; tl90 MwtAtWy wind
ikt, Iteeminf km( and wtkwett
--
UMttm &
1 1.-- '-- w w-fli, Nt
WHAM UVKW 1WK VMAXQm
lowmifr muurr
l.t ill.- IIU. .. .
i" 1M . . Ili V.ur ?u iz:
V?Zivm aunt iMtw
PIIlIiADELPnLV, TnUKSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1910
CoMUtHT. 1918, ST TltS rtSLIO LtTCtl CoUriKI
U-RAIDER SUNK
OFF NANTUCKET,
NORFOLK HEARS
Destroyed by a British
Cruiser, Captain of
Freighter Says
VICTIM MAY BE THE U-53
Master of English Ship Tells of
Wireless Message Giving
News of Loss
NORFOLK, Va, oct. 19. A report was
received here today that a German sub
marine, which may hae been the U-BJ, has
been destroyed off Nantucket Shoals.
The Rrltlsh steamship North Pacific
while coaling here, reported that she had
been signaled by a British cruiser oft the
coast, and that the cruiser reported by
wireless the sinking of the submarine.
The wireless message, according to the
North Pacific, read as follows:
"Oerman submarine sunk off Nantucket"
The North TacHlc arrived In Hampton
Roads from New Orleans Monday night
Captain Beck, of the North Pacific, re
fused to discuss the report
British officials pointed out that a British
cruiser would hardly report the sinking of
n submarine to a freight ship and express
the belief thnt the wireless message was
merely a warning that a German submarine
had been seen oft Nantucket.
The U-SJ 'Mas last definitely reported by
the captain of the steamship Bovlc as
having been seen nt 6 o'clock last Friday
morning sixty miles esst of Nantucket.
Tho report at that time that the U-boat
nns chasing the Danish Ilelllg Olav was
afterward denied.
The entire world was startled when a
German war submarine, the U-5J, rose out
of the sea on October 8 at Newport R. I.,
and, after delivering a message destined
for Count von BernstorfT, German Ambas
sador to the United States, and paying offi
cial compliments to American naval author
ities, sailed away as mysteriously as she
appeared. Her departure, however, was
soon succeeded by the sinking of five steam
ships oft Nantucket Shoals, and the re
port that the purpose of her trip across the
Atlantic was to Inaugurate a campaign
against allied shipping oft the American
coast
Oi the U-58's victims, three were. British
vessels, one of them the passenger steam
ship Stephano, bound from St John, N. B.,
to New York. Her passengeife, numbering
eighty-three, 'Included many Americana!
The other British ships sent to the bot
tom were the "West Point n'nd .Strathdene.
In addition, the U-53 torpedoed and sunk
tho Dutch steamship Bloomersdtjk, of 1201
tons, and the Christian Knudsen, a Nor-
jneglan tank Steamship, of 2183 tons.- Both
of these latter .'nips sailed from New York
for European ports.
There waa no loss of Ufa.
AUTO AND BUNGALOW
LURES FOR A PASTOR
Their Use by Rich Widow in
Alienating His Affections
Alleged in Suit
FREEHOLD, N, J., Oct 19. Frst an
automobile, then a bungalow, were used as
"lures" In the alleged alienation of the af
fection of the Rev, J. Mllo Robinson by
Mrs. Inex Peterson, a wealthy widow, ac
cording to the clergyman's wife, Mrs. I.eota
A. Robinson. .The latter today resumed
her testimony In her 150,000 suit against
her rival. Mrs. Robinson swore that the
widow begun by onerlngher machine to the
clergyman, and later, when she went South,
turned over a bungalow to the Robinsons.
She testified that she repeatedly found her
husband and Mrs. Peterson fn compromising
situations.
The Rev. Mr. Robinson, who waa for
merly pastor of the Asbury Park Cpngre
gatlonal Church, has not been seen slnct
August of last ear.
SALESMAN HELD; RING MISSING,
BUT EVIDENCE IS LACKING
Hotel Quest Says Ho Lost Jewel in
Sprint: Qity
WEST CHESTER, V. Oct, 19. Gilbert
AHman, a traveling salesman, represent
ing chemical company at 9438 Michigan
avenue, Chicago, Is In prison here as a vic
tim of circumstances and la held for ex
amination In Criminal Court on the charge
ox taking a diamond ring, but so far there
Is no evidence that he got the property.
Altman registered at a hotel In Spring
City yesterday and after going to his room
visited a bathroom Boon afterward a con
stable with a search warrant entered 111
room, searched Altman. the room and his
suitcase, seeking a diamond ring which
another guest declared he had let In the
bathroom ,'
The search failed to leeate the supposed
stolen property, but the salesman was
brought to prison by order of the dltrlt
attorney, '
"HOPE I1TUUE," SAYS MUTISM
EMBASSV OF U-80AT REPORT
Ngyy omM Think giloaee SfetM Raid
my Bo SignMlMRt
WAMIHOWW.Oot """Xttk
tmJl" was tti4 oaly oassmant fram jmomi
S&airhwi 74y on WoHtolk rsawrU Mwt
trSSiMi wbmarlo. had t-n sunk
VaUefcft.. , t 4 mAm..
Tbm wavy umv u ,, - . - .
.. .- mimr. tkMM a waa sua
IJit th. sltoooe of 4 jwbaaylgg.
jW w
IiH ' JPH , I
I jt'r
1 'Jg. -W
LOST TO PENN ELEVEN
Billy Ncill was barred from fur
ther competition nt Pcnn when the
faculty committee found him incll
pible on tho grounds of hnvlnjr
rlayecj four years of college foot
ball. neill,"peiws
star lineman,
is ineligible
Faculty Committee Finds
That Guard Has Played
Four Years of Col
lege Football
HARD BLOW TO TEAM
Two of the best guards In the TCnst are
now ou) of competition, and in this In
stance Rob Folnell and his Penn eleven
are the losers. First Kenning, rated by a
number of critics last year as an All-American
man, was stricken with appendicitis,
virtually Incapacitating this star for the
reason. No'w oomesjhe hard blow and one
that bears a "1C O." label. It was dxlvered
by tho faculty committee of the University
of Pennsylvania,' this morning when they
declared Billy Nelll, stellar right guard,
nellgtble.
The loss of Kelll means much to Folwell,
and It will necessitate much work on the
part of Ruck Wharton to develop a man to
fill N'etU's shoes. Two youths now loom up
for the position In Hstresvaag, formerly of
the Shattuck Military Academy, tho school
which produced Ben Derr, and Wagoner,
another lad who has been doing wm fine
work on the scrub team, l'rticvaag was
captain of the freshman to i last year.
Kellt played three yearn on tho Whitman
College eleven at Walla Walla, Washing
ton, and, according to the Penn code,
should be able to compete four yeara In
college, but It Is understood he had been
protested and that .the Penn faculty com
mittee upheld the protest Kelll Is a third
year medical man and this was his second
year on the varsity. The protest claims
that this Is Nelil's fifth year, anil rather
than engage In any controversy the com
mittee barred the star,
Penn's lino was rated as one of the best
In the country, and It was well known
that if Folwell could develop a backfteld
to keep pace with the forwards the Red
and Blue would be able to romp away
with the remaining games on the schedule.
But now It is different Hennlng and Nelll
were the bulwarks of the line, and with
these two big gaps to be filled, the Penn
team still Is an uncertainty ,
GERMANS TO CONTINUE
U-BOAT WAR OFF U. S.
Plan to Sink British Traders as
They Leave American
Ports
LONDON, Oct, 19 Germany Intends to
keep up her submarine activities oft the,
United ptates coast, according to a dispatch
from Amsterdam today. The telegram
quotes the Volksxettung, of Cologne, aa say
ing: "Oerman submarines will operate In the
future tn the western Atlantic. They will
visit the well-known shipping routes around
th eastern point of Nantucket Island nnd
will alnk British merchantmen after giv
ing the crews opportunity to savo them
selvea." ZEPP RAID SPOILS COWS MILK
'
London Dairymen Acquitted of Charge
of Watering Product
BBRMN, Oct. 19r-Th BiUnr Tag
Matt deotarM that a Lesdra peWce court has
absolved u. dairyman aMM4 of waterlog
milk.
The dairyman declared that hU sows ware
so frightened by the Zemtelln attacks that
tin nMk wh swelled. ,
C4l WMHw K. KiMk to Retire
BOOTON. Oet J. CaiXaln William It
Hush, U, 8, jr., oonunandaot at the ftutcn
Navy Tard, who tod Um ten of au,
riaM and aaUora wfeleh utadwl t Vat
Oroa tntm h AUealla (mi u 1911, U to
MaA aStf forty MM ,Mil i i .. ZZ
-w w,. ''zrs v
m.
." f,
.Atjmm
FAMILY TICKET
REVIVAL ASKED
BY COMMUTERS
Reduction of 100-Trip Rate
Also Requested of
Roads
PEACE PROPOSAL BASIS
Commuters' Demands Made
on Suburban Railroads
"CURST. Restoration of family-
trip ticket, good for twenty-six
rides durinc six months nt n rate
of 1.C ccnU n mile, ticket to bo for
feited if used hv nrnnn nnt nntltlml
to it.
I Second. Reduction of prico of
100-tHn ttekpt n nhl rain nlna flftv
per cent of tho increaso added by tho
Public Service Commission Decem
ber 15, 1914.
These proposals, mode on invita
tion of railroads, aro to be acted
upon by tho roads, which, if they
cannot concede all that is asked, will
make a counter-proposal within two
weeks.
Restoration of the family-trip ticket at
a rate of 1 cents a mile and reduction
of the rate of the 100-trlp ticket to the old
rate plus fifty per cent of tho Increase
made to ears ago, It ta understood, were
the demands made on the railroads today
by the fighting commuters and business
men's associations.
The demands were In tho form of a
letter addressed to the Public Service Com
mission and the three railroads serving
Philadelphia's suburban population. In ac
cordance with the peace proposals made
last Tuesday by the railroads, which In
lted the commuters to submit their pro
posals for an amicable settlement of the-
two-year controeray.
CONCESSIONS ASKED
The ro-establlshment af the family trip
ticket, good for twenty-six rides during a
six-month period, was the first of tho two
Important concessions as,ked by the com
muters. It was said on good authority. In
requeuing a 1 (-cent rate, It Is under
stood that It was pointed out, that this
Is tho prevailing rate charged by railroads
in the suburbs of Chicago nnd New York
and should be the rate In the vicinity of
Pnlladelphla.
The proposal also was said to contain
a recommondatlon that tho purchaser of
the family trip ticket should furnish the
signatures of the members of his house
hold who are to make uso of the ticket, as
a safeguard to the railroad Issuing It
Should any ona else make use of it, tho
ticket Is to be l'ablo to forfeiture.
The second Important demand made by
the attorneys for ih6 commuters and busi
ness organizations was for n reduction In
Continued on Pile Two, Column On
autoolMhere
recovered in n. y.
-i.:
Machine of P. S. Russell, Taken
October 2, Found by Phila
delphia Detective
The automobile of P. S. Itussel, of
Wynnewood, which was stolen from tn front
of the Itacquet Club on October IS, was
recovered today In New York, and the po
lice believe they have dlscoered a "fence"
In that city, through which many of the
cars stolen In Philadelphia were being dis
posed of.
Four arrests were made. The prisoners
are Frank Allen, John Burro, .Robert Us
ees and Judson Webster, all of New York.
According to the police, Jhey will be ex
tradited and brought to this city.
Tha recovery of Mr Russet's car rivals
almost the exploits of Sherlock Holmes.
Mr. Russel, who Is Ice president of the
Hale & Ktlburn Company, notified the
police Immediately after it was stolen. De
tective Harry Clarke was assigned to the
case, and, following a "hunch," went to
New York. He heard that four men were
attempting to dispose of a car and, follow
ing the clue, went to a garage on West
Ninety-sixth street.
The automobile, which was Identified as
Mr. IlusseU', waa found hidden there. It
had been repainted and other attempts had
been made tn dlcgulsa It. Detective Clarke
then placed the four men under arrest.
Seven mot Hears stolen In this city have
been recovered by tho police in New York
In the last few weeks.
The police believe that a chain of
"fences" are working together In that city
in disposing of etolen Philadelphia auto
mobiles, and that the arrest of the four
men may lead to the recovery of other
automobiles stolen In this city recently,
DENIED FINERY, KILLS HERSELF
Inmate of Jersey State Prison ComralU
Suicide by Strangling
TBKNTON, N, J., Oct. 19 Because she
was denied permission to wear some pretty
clothes which she had brought with her.
thirty-year-old Anna RtcVert, of Tmxx
County, killed brslf In tk State lrou
lwr today,
aWk strangled herself by tearing a strip
from a muHH het and wrapping it tightly
abtt her peek,
DMa4a Lifting ef Cilitp
TH HAOUK. Oot 1, TtaaMeMo or
aboUshnasoi, 6' BoJUIcal oaaaorablp
daensiwUd by several gassfcora of jUi tud-
CceuunuiOT vi fMtm wnmejspg as s new
s thf It waa efcrll tt (MM
aa a lanproyasaMi la UM MMM. ?
site aaaaa tha "" a "AisaisTA.-la
Z.fi-r K
:iM
PIUGJB OlOB OJCN?-
QUICK NEWS
LINER HELPLESS OFF CAPE LOOKOUT
POH.TSMOTJTH. Vn., Oct. 10. Tho Wmil liner Arahopc, with
passengers nnd freight, Charleston to New York, in helpless in a
gnle off Cnpe Lookout. Vessels me hastening to her aid.
RUMANIANS WIN VICTORY NEAR KRONSTADI
UUCIIAUKST, Oct. 10. Iluumninn troops linvo won a victory
over the Austro-Geniliuis touth of KroustnCif, driving tlio enemy
back fiom tho 1'ioUcnl Tabs region nnd across the Tinnsylvonla.
frontier, It viu offklally announced this utturnoon. In Diun dcfllu
gtouud waa galucd.
ADDITIONAL RACING RESULTS
First Laurel race, 2-year-olds, selling, 5 12 furlongs Supernal,
103, Robinson, 7.00, $1.10, ?2.C0, won; Comncho, 108, J. McTaggart,
$12.20, ?1.00, second; Glory Belle, 111, Mink, $2.50, third. Time,
1.03 -1-5.
Second Laurel race, 3-year-olds nnd up, selling, 0 furlongs
Dioomcoin, 100, J. McTnggait, $53.70, $10.00, $0.40, won; Ancon,
101, Kleeger, $1-100, $8.G0, second; Wizaid, 107, Toplln, $10.00,
thhd. Time, 1.10,
FIRST ROUND FOR GOLF TITLE CALLED OFF
PHILM0NT COUNTRY CLUB, Pa., Oct. 10. The flist tound of
eighteen holes for the Philadelphia open golf chniriplonshlp was
called off here this morning because of tho licuvy mlnstorm. Tito
event was cut fiom bcvcnty-two holes medal p!.iy to fifty-four, aud
tho profciaiouala started out for toduy's eightieu-uulc round early
laia aftuiuocn. Thilty-slx boles, will be ployed tomouow.
MAY WHEAT HIGHEST SINCE WAR
CHICAGO, Oct. 19. Whcnt continued Its upward Hwlng to new IiIrIi mnrlts
louay. iieceniticr, tfter opcnlnj; down ', calncil 3S. touchlnjr Jl.COS. May oncneJ
up i and Hubscquentlj Bnlned it iclllnir nt Jl CDV tho highest prico since the
L.uropmn war begnn. l'orn Junipoil lth sheat.
FLOUR $10 A BARREL AT RETAIL; HIGHEST IN 20 YEARS
CHICAGO, Oct. 11. Makers mo palnR J9.G0 a barrel for flour, Tho retail
price linn advanced to!9.9f ami 10, tho Mghcat In twenty, years. pecliln(lve wheat
nns jumped almost ten v;ntii tills work and irraln men predict $3 wheat before the
first of the ycaf. Tho cause Is laid to short crops throughout tho world.
BETTING ODDS ON ELECTION GETTING TIGHTER
Ni:V YOISK. Oct 19. election bcttl'ip cdOs llplitcned odny and Home bets
nt 10 to 9 on Hugtica were rcpmtol Hughru money tamo out nt that figure nnd
the be'tlnr then pereil from 10 to 8 to 10 to 9 Oddi of 10 to 7 thnt Hughet would
carry New Vnrl,- ftn'e. nlmllnr oi!e' thrt HiikIiob would carry New'jorHey nnd
even ninncy on Ohio wp"' tcportrd.
TWELVE THOUSAND BAYONNE STRIKERS BACK AT WORK
HAYONNi:, N. .1., Oct. 19,SIoro than 12,000 striking emplojcs of the Standard
Oil Company returned to worls early today. Tho backbone of tho ntrlko which has
caused much rioting 1h believed to bo broken. No violence ntlendcd tho resumption
of work. 1'olico and Ilremen armed with rifles guarded tho men returning to their
Jobs In the various oil plants. All saloons aro still closed.
U-3 CAPTAIN HONORED; SANK 126 SHIPS
nnitUN, Oct. 19 -Tho ruder of Pour I.o Meilto lias been awarded Lieutenant
Commander Arnnuld do la Tcirlere, edmmnnder of tho submarlno U-33, for bis
achievements In slnUlnir-126 easi-tH, totaling 270,000 tons. Among the vessels
destroyed b tho 17-35 were one French and one English small cruiser.
GREAT BRITAIN NEEDS 1,000,000 MORE SOLDIERS
LONDON, Oct. 19. England a need of more men for bor nrmlcs camo up for
discussion In the llouao of Commons today. This Is tho vital question now con
fronting Parliament, for It Includes the possibility of oxtondlng conscription to Ire
land. Tho discussion of manpower will not bo limited to coer the Iirltlsli iBles,
but will Includo the whole Iirltlsli Empire. Jt Is declared that Kngland needs' at
least 1,000,000 morn men for tho successful ptosccutlon of the war. Lloyd George
contends that the old conscription law Is too tooso nnd that It should bo made more
drastic to bring out those who nro now "slacking."'
CABINET CRISIS REPORTED" NEAR IN AUSTRIA
A.MSTWtDAM. Oct. 19 The correspondent of tl)u Vosslscho Zeltung. of llerlln,
telegia:li3 from ltnmi fTrylng that a ministerial crisis in Austria Is considered
unavoidable. The correspondent says It Is expected thnt tho Foreign Jtlnlster will
retire and bo succeeded by a Hungarian,
HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS LEAVE ON WASHINGTON, TRIP
One hundred and soventy-flo Brls, members of tho senior class of tho West
Philadelphia High Kchool for Girls, left for Washington this morning on a three
day tour of tho capital, Dr. Parks Hchocli, principal of the school, with Mrs.
Schock, beaded tho party. Members of the faculty to go along were Miss Margaret
Remington, Miss Mura Hegulne, Miss Mario Dcpue, Miss Ethrelda Shoo, Miss Flor
ence Ilrooks and Miss Sclma Gesstcr, secretary of tho school
SCHOOLGIRL AND INFANT DIE OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS
Two more deaths from Infantile paralysis were reported toduy thoso of Mar
garet Kllcker, twelve 2S10 North Eighth street, and llobert Uaker, seven months,
2130 Htewart street. Tho Kllcker girl was a pupil at the School of Practice, Thir
teenth and Cambria streets. 8I10 died last night. Other pupils In her class were
dismissed and the school ni'.d classroom thoroughly disinfected. Tho children re
turned to their ctargts today, but will be kept under close observation tor tho next
two weeks. Tho linker buby-dled In the Municipal Hospital for Contagious Diseases.
The report of tho Health Department, Issued todayshows a total of 1G cases and
211 deaths to date.
. REDMOND'S HOME RULE PROPOSAL FAILS v
IX)NlX)r, Oct, 19. Tho proporal mado y John Itedond, lcWr of the
Nationalist In tho House of Commons, for tho withdrawal of martlal'-lavy 4
the establishment of homo rule jn Inland 1 - ' r -ei-c ted by th Iftmso by a
vote of 303 to 106, Hrnry Edward Du: C'l.j- tot , r Ireland. JcUra4 It
was Imposslblo to accept "the prescriptions" of Ml, KeJmond.
SET ADRIFT' BY U-BOATS; FROZEN TO DEATH
LONDON, Oct. lCrew of certain Norvtagtan vmwhi, teryc44 V- Oarmao
submarine, were p4c4 In m11 boats and en4wed WmKuI S4tffrbv Wfora
rcaclilBg hmi, eays a Hereon dispatch Four mn were frowMi to dUatk 4 a4Jsr
d4d at Alexandrovsk, nar Archangel,
IIUOHB8 WW& PRINCETON STRAW VOT; WILSON U. OF !.
Woodrow Wilson dfeutd Charlen Kvans Ilmriws for tu pfsthleiioy ), siraw
voia at tha University of Pannavhanla bv 111 la 271 vaiua. Ihnun mm.. .
mtttjay I. Th voting was dA In tha Dally PennaylvtwOlan k. A straw voU that
brvurM ot naarly sevsiity-nv per cent of tha rrtnoaton swluoent aav KSbea ,
mmjornr w s ovr rwwmwmm wuwa, jiugaa a vaaaiog lc UM afeMSMaj gag
nbw v mwi m m ni mt tw wsaaqam, aapi
EX-MAYOR RAPS
'SHAKEDOWN'OF
CITY EMPLOYES
Blankenburg Declate8
System Unlawful, Un-.
just, Dishonest v
BELIEVES THE PUBLIC
WILL BACK PROTEST
Policeman's Wife Bitter at
Demand Which Robs'
Her of Home Needs
FUND GROWS STEADILY
r Ibbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbs
lamamamamCFL. .. MsmamaBHW
iSBBBBBr Vl9sBBsVr
M ) jtaaFssssa
mlmlmff : JarnKvHssssV
H 7- MTyjamssssssaaai
HH J ML '''MaaiaiiiiV '
bbbbbB; HHs'flaiamlmHaF-''
BmamTfr "Tamamamamamami
RUDOLPH BLANKENBUHG
'.--'
City employes ehould unite and refuse to
pay political assessments without fear of
reprisal. This ,ls tho message to the people
of Philadelphia from ex-Mayor Jludolph
Ulankenburg, who was succeeded by Mayor
Thomas n. Smith. Mr. piankenburg iihar-
ncterlied this method of .obtaining' "vol,
tnrjf" contributions as unlawful' and dis
honest, and said that the publfecwssld ratty
to tha support of oOlcahoIdera If they con
ducted a concantratad war nganst UiU
manner of "gouging" pay. envelopes;
The former Mayor urgeI that they stand
together and In cases of reprisal take their
grievances before the Court of Public Opin
ion Ho said;
"Political assessments nre unlawful, un
just and dishonest nnd should not be tol
erated It Is less justifiable at the present
time than ccr before
"I see that some of the policemen Tuiva
flatly refused to pay. That la tha proper
stand. They should all do the 'same thing.
It would soon put an end to the practioe,
PUIJLIC PACKS ritOTEST
"There was not a single occasion during
the last four years when an employe of
the city paid an assessment. It Is not
necessary for them to begin 'now, Thas '
should have nothing to fear.
They should unite on this point. Th
people, ecry solitary one of tbem, wout4
btand 'back of them In this question.''' '
The former Mayor was asked what.aalloa
the pojlcemen or any otlicr cmalova eouM
take It they were removed from'oftlee m .
a means of reprisal, and he replied:
"They should stand together and "taka
such matters up before the Court of Pubttt
Oulnlon. That Is what he Organisation
fears most." r
In the meantime the work of mietnaj
offictholdera for elty funds Is being oen
ductfd In a businesslike method by tb
memuers or the Itepubllcan organ1satlea
Through written appeals, telephone mil
and personal solicitation the work I bslac
carried on with remarkable celerity.
The 150,000 deficit encountered during
the last primaries by the Vare-controlM
city committee already has been wIm4
out, and tho 1190,000 mark s being rapid
ly approached.
ISvcrywhere throughout the city, polkM-
men, firemen and small offlcthoWirs aro
complaining of the assessment a4 the lo
ot eased percentage of their yearly salary
demanded. Kven the city lakorara hav
been asked to donate a day's pay, naaoaly,
IS, to "help grease the wheels of th ms
cbinery." "
A WIPE'S COMPLAIHtf
The wife of a peUcanMMi tax t'aa narUura
part of the city was graally sngerW h.
cause her huseiand .had io make a "v4it-
tary" canUUmtlwi ef (K frwa Ma "taf--.J
. . ' , . r-'
we-tc- pay, moRmiff ter , use aaia
"1 don't kMaw itot. w aa "ac H j
this foMiL vs a tM MtaX "tat '
lf)c What fMi aarttriN mh to 1
policeman tat have apa fajsUllaT
aMair, nr HiiaMML mm to y
nouaa ovaa
for mm a r tha
and otkaf naasssltlaW
ffUaliar eamidalnts wr kaasel
wltM aad Mhr mautberii of eke
af pdtoMl. flfMBMi and umuohotaara
mt aastsw m iinaajpbu
Trata Rihm Over Do, Kilb
IANL'Aal Kit. fa on o j
frM af a laMtsylvnut lUiifwd
Uancatr tbta axNiaim iu
Has trt aie JM ktud. Pal
m WMB Wl
1 iiiiuniiir mmvmmm
mm mt aMkaBsr
tar tfcs aiast m
