Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MOUNINCJ, OCTOBER 19, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 153
1L -CTAP A
F TEUTONIC A
0
AT NO POINT H '
D0E5BERUN0RIIJIKE .
EUI OF FRESH SUCCESSES
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Apparently the Rumanians have been successful, at least temporarily, in
stopping the advance oF the Teutonic allies all along their border. At no pint
along thi$ line does either Berlin or Vienna claim fresh successes against the
Rumanians, while the Bucharest war office asserts that the troops of rung
Ferdinand at various points have repulsed the. attacks of the Teutonic al
lies, inflicting heavy losses on them and capturing numbers of their officers
and men.
Violent fighting is still in progress in Galicia. where on the Narayuvka
front the Bavarians have stormed a Russian position and captured 350 men
and 12 machine guns. Berlin asserts that west of Lutsk, in Volhynia, fol
lowing the repulse of the Russians the troops of Emperor Nicholas have not
returned to the fray and are merely bombarding the Teutonic positions. .Tlje
repulse of Austra-Germans is recorded by Petrograd.
Both north and south of the Somme the French troops have made fresh
gains. The village of Sailly-Saillisel is now entirely in their hands and the
Germans have been driven from the hills ndrthwert and northeast. Over
a front of a mile south of the river between La Maisonnette and Biaches. the
German first line defenses have been driven back b the French.
East of Thie"val gains by the British north of Gueudccourt and in the
rtgion of Eutte de Warlencourt, are recorded by the London war offices. Pa
trol encounters and bombardments feature the fighting in Macedonia.
In the Austro-Italian theater the Italians are another step forward in their
advance on Trentino. having broken the Austrian line between Cosmagnon
and Roite and also taken a commanding position on Mount Pasubio.
Greece still remains a center of interest as the result of the landing of
entente allied marines at Pireaus and Athens. Fresh demonstrations of bit
terness by the Greek populace against the marines have been shown and
the situation still remains tense. An appeal drawn up at a meeting of Greeks
at Athens has been handed to the American people "to avert the subjugation
of those who desire only to remain free."
On Galician Front
PKTK' m;!'.1, Oct. IS. Ua Lon
don i - I b-av v engagements are coiitm
Pmg ti the Calician battle front, the
war oilice reports and stubborn fi'Clil
is in progress.
I"1'' statement reads:
Nii.'t of Kcrylniza farce and ob
Minate lighting continues. AH enemy
cuanter attack were repulsed.
"Noi'.h of K-t ri );. t n il;i our ee'ach-tii'-uts
captured by surpris; enemy
nd alu r,l , t .
"In the i 'arp.itl.ions snow is falling
aid there is fog at some placs."
Russian troops in Turkish Armenia
).ae o riven off strong foices of Turk-i
r.n.l Kurds, acordin:; in todav's state
m'Mt, whi-'1: sav.v
"i 'aia-.iKiis from: Purine October I"
and 1G considerable for.es f Turks
mid Kurd attacked seven times at
S'idinan.lag mountain, six lcr'us
lalu.iit forty miles) southeast of F.r
l.itigan. which is ri.'i upied l.y our gal
lant Catisacian regiments, but were
repulsed wUli heavy pi-scs,"
French Attacks Repulsed
I Till IN. Oct. 1 French
ittacky In '
the region of Morval ami Rancour;,
north of the river Somme, were re
pids.d yesterday after hard fighting.
British and French attacks, no r
Tl.ii pval, Courseb'tte .and Pouchave'-;-res,
the statement adds, also failed.
'n both sides of Falii'ourt LAbbaye,
it is announ'-ed. the Ocman destru
the fire reduced the liritish attack to
failure at the outset. North of tho
S"inrr.e the nrtilleiy bombardment
was intense.
n th western bank nf t'ie Nara
yuvka river. oii:hwf'St of Herbntovo,
in tVilicia, fbtvarian troops stormed a
Hussian poir-t of support, took
pi i'dners anil 12 machine 51ms.
Serhn Ar- Successful
SAI.ONIKI. Oct. IS. (Via London.
Successful operations by the Seib.,
M,l nf M,m'ilir H rr. rr.-n.rtei 1 I... Mir-
M i l.Ml:iV ns" fulloWK: 1
nnltari.in poMiti,n, at )(! ropolir uw
Skn! mn thf Nidjo Tanina Ti
(i rrUi'n v, ore rontinncd on the 17th
with reuhirHy and success."
m
Italian BreaW Resistance
r.OMF.. Oct. 1S, (Via London) Ttn'
t.m (loops on Mount Pistibio. in th
Trentino yesterday broke the last i
Austro-IIcpgarian lines of reslstanc-i
In the region between Cosmagnon and
Tbate -d wormed the Austrian line,:
north or the summit of Pasubio.
Youths Are Arrested
VTHKNS. Oct. IS. (Via London) A
French marine patrol last evening a1'-
retei at the point of the bayonet
- t'.ih i i -
entente powers. A huge crov d gatn-1
er,d for ,be purpose of rescuing them.
Ti e f reek military commander in
.Mber- called out troops who charged
f "rt 'bspersfd the crowd. Oree:
" ' '" -
Earthquake and Storm Work
Havoc in Southern States
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTA. C.a., Oct. IS. Tho
southeast ua rocked by earthquake
' "'I swept by storm ut tne, same" time
today. While a tropical hurricane
v.as flaying the gulf coast, earth
tremors overturned chimneys and
frightened many people from their
homes in Georgia. Alabama and Ten
nessee The earthquake did little damage
but a wind that reached a velocity of
11' miles an hour lifted roofs from
nouses at Pensa' ola. Ha., and sank a
htimiicr of vessels in the harbor. Ono
life was lost.
Mobilo reported that it had been
queued more lightly, although the
wind blew 110 miles an hour. Two
small buildings Were destroyed and a
negro woman was killed by u live
w ire. Two river steamers were sum;,
n. schooner and a steamer were driven
i'Fhore and small lma'.s vvre lost.
The earth shocks were felt nliiirt.lv
nfter four o'clock and were severest in
Montgomery nnd Birmingham, Ala.,
vh'-ro swaying office buildings were
emptied within a few minutes. In
these towns chimncya were des;royed
ii n I articles were hurled from
shelves in residences and shops. Else
patrols were immediately placed in
valines districts to control any at
tempt it ant i-enteote manifesiaiions.
TI'.,- French admiral in eonimand.
informed the premier that, he would
call at tie ministry in the morning,
a!t!ioU-h it is (nought pos-ablc tout as
a result of the British ministers au
dience with King Constantino, th
l-'.epeb tn.ops may le withdrawn tin
a i ledtre ilia-, the Greeks maintain
ruder.
It is known that the kins has given
command that anti-entente dinioii
s:ratinns most cease, as the very ex
istence of (;i"Hi" is at stake.
Little Damage Done
LONDON. ict. Is. The press bu
reau appends a note to n Renter dis
patch received from Anislerd un tvlt
tive to the allege I "gigantic damage'"
done in Fnglnnd by the Zeppelin raids
of September 2:1 : tid October '.' which
declares such. Ma'.cmen'.s to tie "ludic
rous fiction." and -adds: "The secre
tary to the admiralty slates that ther"
Is not a weird of truth in the state-!
ment that a "miser .nr warship was
'n.rnneed. No warship or merchant
man, nor merchantman Oelnnging to
the navy or mercantile marine was
touched by Zeppebn bombs. The whole
story is a fal.r'.i atinn."
LEOPARD PROSPERITY
fReouhlicjn A. P. Leased Wire
CLKVKLA XI i. ().. Oct. IS. "The I
prosperity of i h
I'nited States is leop-
ird prosn'Titv. It is spotted," said
Charles Warren Fairbanks, vice jiresi-,
dential nominee of the republican party
here today. U attacked the demo-
cratlc administration as unstable and !
denied its ability to deal . with
mendous economic situation which w ill
he created at the close of the war when
3i,uon.uoa foreigners go back to work '
of construction. "The great cry of the j
democrats at the Baltimore conven- j
ti'in." he added, "was to lower the high I
cost of living. I'.ut they are not saying I
mi!ch about nr'W.'
I HANLY IN INDIANA
reoubhcan A. P. Leased Wire!
' TBRRE HAFTK. Ind.. Oct. 18. i
Ifome again in Indiana where he hopes
to swine a large vote from both par
tiesJ. Frank Hanly, the prohibition
candidate for president, today flayed
democrats and republicans alike for
'.'"" "'iency- to the Uuuor In-
"'"Wi i nr) mini fill ITJVl.smie KOV-
frnrnfiit.' he Huid, which has 8ilejicel
" t7u XlnZlT" '
,.
WEALTH CURSE OF INDIAN
MOHONK LAKK. N. Y. Oct IS
Wealth Is one of the chief curses of
the American Indian, according to
, i 1 itMirL'e V 1111Y . r l.Hntpw.n ..V ll,n
, t mted States board of Indian commis-
sinners, who spoke tonight before the
I Lake Mohonk conference of the Indian
and other dependent peoples Mr
Vaux's subject was "The Pauperism of
Riches; an Indian Paradox
where no damage was reported.
The earthquake was felt aa far
north as Louisville, Ky.. and east to
Augusta, (la. Its duration was about
three minutes and there were two
shocks. .
Several Vessels Lmt
I i'NSACOLA. Fl.l.. Ol t. IS. Several
vessels In the harbor here were sunK.
owiiieioiis small era 1 1 suffered dam-
age, and one life was lost in tbe ter-
rific tropical hurricane that swept
through here today. At one time the
wind reached a velocity of 1U miles
an hour. Property damage In fen -
sacola itself was confined sjnefly to
ro.n mown oir ami plate glass win
dows d"siroyed.
i no navy aeronautic station near
tiere escaped with comparatively lit-
tie damage. The newly completed
tiermanent hangers withstood the gale,
but several aeroplanes were reported
damaged. ,
The gale came In such terrific sn.l
sudden gusts that it blew three i r
four, persons through idate glass win
dows in the downtown district, nnd
carried away the weather observation
tower on tup of a high building. The
barometer registered 29.05 just before
Vote For Hughes Means Maintenance Of Our Rights
J& J& j& j& j? j& j
COL ROOSEVELT APPROVES LOCAL PLANS
I PRINCESS IS WED TO
I HUMBLE APOTHECARY
LONDON, Oct. 18. The Frank-
furter Zeitung announces the mar
I riage of Princess Marie Therese of
Holienlohe t()i Otto Kohleisen of
Inncshruck, arc apothecary and
I ilescendant of an humble Austrian
I family. The princess nursed Kohl
! eiser while he was in a hospital
suffering from an illness con
I traded on the battlefield.
-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.ONDON, Oct. IS. Parliament to
day after a sot debate in the house
of commonH, de ided by a majority of
TUT that it was undesirable at present,
to discuss Irish controversial domestic,
politics.
The Irish i:estion was brought np
by1 John Redmond, the nationalist
leader, who introduced a motion to the
elf"t that "the system of (tovernment
at present maintained in Ireland.
ini'onslstant with the principle for
which Jhe. allies are fighting in F.tirope
and is, or has been, mainly responsible
for the recent unhappy events and for
the piVsent state of feelinjr In that
country."
An amendment to this motion, in-
tro luced by John F. 1. Rawlinson.
representing t'nnrjride University,
declared that, "it is not desirable at
the present time io discuss contro
versial niatlei of domestic politics."
The detiate readied a hiith level,
notably the speech of Mr. Redmond,
attacking th government administra
tion of bretan 1. especially with regard
to (ueti.,ns of recruiting ar.d the
treatment 'if rebel prisoners, and that
of David I.oyl Cieorjje, secretary for
war. who made a conciliatory speech
which did much to remove the adverse
impression created in the Nationalist
"r",.J''' ".x.Z'.l . . "T.
i,otr..i u,.r,- i.-.i..,r,i n..L
A .,ViWin it'..ri,.i ' P,u,
Au,,,.i,h-. ,,,..,,. f ' Timnihi.
i,,... f.h,.iieir . B,i n,. imri.
,.,, mlmssai!.ir to 'investigate the
.rouimi-r,. ..i ih irih r,ei nriinn
' At thf. tlse f debate the home
mi,.,. nrb.ri i ,.miiot d,.ni,i
PARLIAMENT IS
WAHY OF DEBATE
ON IRISH ISS
tre-i,h.., th '.' ha(1 lH ,v treatment.
n(i declared that the prisoners had
been treated more leniently than any
political prisoners had ever been
treated before.
Mr. Redmond moved his resolution
in the presence of a crowded house,
Among those in the gallery were
I iKiion 01,1111011111.1111, nillK Ufinura
1 private secretary.
The Irish leader said it was un-
deniable that the situation in Ireland
was full of menace and danger and
he contrasted this state of affairs with
the g'rmine enthusiasm for the allies
in Ireland at the beginning of the war.
He proceeded to review the situation in
detail.
Mr. Redmond said the situation was
full of menace and danger: of menace
to the hopes and aspirations of Ireland
and to a good understanding between
Oreat Hritian and Ireland and to the
highest interests of the empire at the
present moment.
"My object is to allay, not to inflame
feeling and to show it is possible to
save the situation," he continued. "I do
not want to make a political speech
and accordingly start my survey with
the outbreak of the war.
"From the very first, the efforts of
he Nationalist lenders were thwarted
(Continue' on Pago Ten)
all instruments were put out of com
mission, tills morning, and the gale
had raged tip to 111 miles an hour
and then dropped in t minutes to
fourteen, before a change of direction
and a. rise to 38 miles took off. the
tower
I 'rtit. .no iif' t-o,.Hn.i ii tt,--t
i, f Daniel Onhh cook no the smnll
1 steamer Flanders which was reported
sunk two miles from here. Its crew
wag Jjroufc'ht here tonight. Several
persons Were slightly injured,
Shipping damage besides that to
numerous small boats and fishing
1 craft- and the Flanders included the
driving Rear of the Norwegian bark
Oaklands," S!tS tons, and the 4G8 ton
steamer J. K, Du Hignon. Poth suf
fered damage which could not be ac-
curately estimated tonight. Three
; fishing schooners were driven nstiore
and the Russian bark Albyn went
ndrlft in the bay, but was recovered,
The small schooner Amy Vixon, In
t of the Flanders broke loose and
: had not been accounted for tonight.
It was not known how many men
were nbhurl.
The storm isolated Pensacon from
about 8 o'clock this morning until
j th jrely before 8 o'clock tonight.
IVEIUENT ON
FDOTTOSECURE
STORE CLOSING
DwiRht B. Heard, chairman of the
Ketieral committee on arrangements
for the coming of Colonel Roosevelt
yesterday received a wire expressing
Mr. Roosevelt's approval of the prelim
inary arrangements and in response
submitted detailed plans of the meet-
in" to Colonel Roosevelt.
Dr. John Dennett, Jr., who with
Messrs. avo Goldberg and Harry A.
Diehl has been interviewing the mer
chants as to closing during Colonel
Roosevelt's address on Saturday, yes
terday announced that out of respect to
the former president, the stores or
l'hoenix will be closed from 2:3u to
3:;iu. This act of courtesy is greatly
appreciated by the committee 011 ar
rangements. Further arrangements were an
nounced yesterday: The committee on
order of the day will be composed of
Colonel James H. McClintock, Chief of
Police iteorge Urisbois, A. F. Hurler,
V. A. Thompson, A. V. Calpin. Frank
Stewart, W. C. Foster and W. M. Kim
son. Colonel Roosevelt will be taken from
the Santa Fe depot up Central avenue,
which will be decorated in honor of
his visit. City Manager Craig'undertak
ing this part of the work. It is prob
able that there will be an impromptu
procession of automobiles but it
probable that these will drop out when
the city has been passed
In order to secure against interrup
tion during the speaking, the streets to
the north and west of the Polk street
nu, .,ti . ,. ,, , ft . i , . ii
, - ..... . ,..,,rv, i as.lilll'l nil
V, .', V . """"'''"i" com-,
, ,
mittee are advised to drive to the cor
ner of Second and Taylor streets and
to parrf in tint vicinity. No automo-
biles will be allowed on the hlock
si-if but may be parked to the south
and east, with a provision that none of
them leave during the time of the
speaking. Competent supervision for
the narking as well as police super
vision will be exercised. It is espec
ially des!r-d that every one be on hand
well befor.- 2:30, the time when the ad
dress will begin.
It is hoped that at the conclusion of
the address. Mi. Ii msevelt will receive
those present. In that event the line
will lie formed from the north across
the speakers' stand.
The construction of the stand is well
under way and will be ready for Mrs.
Dennett's committee on decoration to
night. Mr. L. W." Co"gins, chairman of the
committee on music has advised that
both the pioneer band and the Indian
School fland have been engaged and
that every member of the audience will
be furnished with a copy of "America"
to be sung during the meeting by the
entire uudience. '
Mrs. Ii. A. Marks is arranging the
badges for the reception committee,
the ushers and the press.
Mr. Franklin D. Iane advises that
his aids in seating the crowd will be:
Frank Woods. Pert Wingar, Mesa; Jes
sie F. Kelley, Mesa: F. F. Griff in, Ar
thur Halm. Vic Hannv, James A.
Jones. Joe Sonntag. H. S. lYince, Den
ny Payne, Paul Pcnnett. Harry Pas
witz, Harold 'I'axter. Kben Lane. H.
W. Asburv, Kert Knsign 11a n Millett.
O. N. MacBean, Charles Stauffer, Judge
F. Thomas.
Chairman Lane has arranged to re
serve the three front rows for veterans
of the various wars and at the side of
the veterans and immediately behind
them have been reserved for the re
ception committee and special working
committees. He is reserving space ad
joining the speaker's stand for elderly
people and he hopes to have a small
American flag for every member of the
(Continued on Page Two)
" o
Two Meet Death
When Freigh t Cars
Leave the Rails
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
VAN HORN. Tex.. Oct. lg. An uni
dentified man was instantly killed while
another, who before death gave his
name as I'resly G. Iturns of Ileavener,
Okla.. was fatally Injured when four
teen freight cars were derailed late last
night at White Horse, Tex., 125 miles
east of F.1 Paso on the line of the Texas
and Pacific railway. Both men were
riding in a steel coal car loaded with
piping.
Tbe face of the unidentified man was
crushed in, but his underwear was
marked N. T. K., his height about
feet ten Inches, his body marked with
a scar above the abdomen, and his
hair light red and wavy.
Before the wreck occurred he told
Burns that ho left a wife and a baby
two weeks old in Los Angeles, where
he owned property and formerly had
a confectionary shop, and had recently
worked in a confectioners at Marshall.
Tex.
Burns, whose legs were crushed, be
longed to the Brotherhood of Locomo
tive Firemen.
The cause of the wreck has not been
determined.
ROOSEVELT SAYS OUR
CITIZENS ABROAD ARE
NOT BEING PROTECTED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
T.OF1SVII.LF, Ky., Oct. IS Assert
ing that for three years there had
been 'no protection of our citizens
anroait I heodore Koosevelt. in an
address heie tonight on behalf of I
Charles R. Huches, assailed the course
or 1 resident ilson In dealing with
Mexico, and his conduct of the coun
try's foreign affairs.
It combined lafty promise and corn-
!" , , ' , , I'eoorman.'e.
It con
sisted of words which were nullified
by deeds," he said in summing up his
view of the president's ccjttr.se.
Kntering Kentucky in the forenoon
Colonel Roosevelt delivering more than
BANDITS SLAY
FETRAIN CREW
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
RUSS. okla.. Oct. 18. Atchison, To
peka and Santa Fe mail-express train
number five, southbound, was held un
fnd rol,l''d by a band of robbers near
here tonight.
An express messenger and a bag
gageman, were shot and Wiled by the
bandits. The roobers after looting the
-ii'ru 111 un auiomooiie. roucc
KM,,t 1,,. .I..1 ,rin fV. 1
.... 1.1 1 ii.ini ii 17 ii ii-ii y , ll in
reported, have taken up the trail of
the robbers, the number of whom is
not known
It was learned later that the ex
it-,pr,.ss cicrk who was shot and killed
by the bandits was named Norman,
and that the band, of robbers num
bered six. The safe in the express
car was blown to pieces. It has not
been ascertained how much money or
valuables the robbers obtained.
Norman was riddled with buckshot.
After killing the clerk and wrecking
the safe, the bandits entered wniting
automobiles on the west side of the
track and disappeared
Posses from Bliss. Perry and other
nearby towns were carried to the
scene of the rohliery In a special train.
Picking up the trail almost immedi
ately, they followed the robbers to
ward the hills and late tonight re
ported they believed the outlaws were
surrounded in a ravine. The posses
are waiting for reinforcements before
closing in.
It is believed that at least two of
the bandits boarded the train at Ponca
City. As the train neared Rliss, two
men climbed to the top of the tender
and commanded the engineer to stop
the train,
When the engineer obeyed,
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
, SVRACI SI-:, N. Y., Oct. 18. (On
Board President W ilson a Special
Train). President Wilson was greeted
by cheering crowds at ten New York
cities and towns during brief stops
made this afternoon and tonight as he
passed through the state on his way
to Chicago to speak there tomorrow.
At Syracuse he got his first glimpse
durin.f the campaign of red lights burn
ing in his honor. The president re
fused to make extended speeches, but
in each town he thanked the crowds
briefly for coming to see him. At Al
bany he said:
"I am a very poor hand, my friends,
tit commending myself. You all know
just exactly what has been done by
the present administration and you
know just as well as, I do how to Judge
it, also that I am perfectly content to
leave myself in the hands of the jury."
At Oneida tonight a man in the
crowd shouted:
"Hurrah for the second Abraham
Lincoln!"
"I am afraid I can't play that game,"
the president called back.
Mr. Wilson appeared on the observa
tion platform of his private car at
Harmon, Poughkeepsie, Albany, Sche
nectady, Amsterdam, Fonda, Utica,
Rome and Oneida before reaching Syr
acuse. Stops of more than five min
utes w are made here and at Albany,
but at the other places the train paused
only for a minute or two.
The president's hand w.?s shaken so
vigorously at Albany that the skin was
torn off of a finger on his right hand
and for several minutes he stood with
a bloody handkerchief In one hand,
shaking hands with the other.
"It's good red blood, anyway," called
out one man.
Tonight Dr. Carey T. Grayson, the
White House physician, bound up the
injured finger and Mr. Wilson used
his left hand In greeting those who
met him.
At several stops local democrats had
engaged bands which played when Mr.
Wilson appeared. Here at Syracuse the
fflO IF SANTA
CHEERING CROWDS GREET MESON
EWHDUTE ACROSS NEW YORK
a dozen rear platform addresses be
fore reaching Ixjuisville. Crossing the
Ohio river, at ( 'incinnatti, his course
tool: iiim almost to the Tennessee line.
At Cynthiania he told his audience
he was Klad to be in Kentucky where
if it was necessary "the people were
not too proud to fight."
His largest audience were at Win
chester and Richmond.
On his arrival here this evening he
was met at the railroad station by a
larse crowd which escorted him to
Phoenix Hill park, about two miles
a, where he spoke. Many persons,
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL I 'A SO, Oct. 18. George Albert
smith, or Salt Lake City, l. tan, was
elected president of the International
Irrigation Congress tonight at the
closing business session of the twenty-
third congress here. His election was
unanimous as were the election of the
other officers of the congress.
Arthur Hooker, of Spokane, Wash.,
was re-elected secretary; J. S. Dennis,
of Calgary, Alberta, was elected first
vice president; L. A. Nares. of Fresno,
Cal.. second vice president; Kurt Grun
wald, of Denver, third vice president;
Lafa.yetie Clajip, fcf Haitch, N. M
fourth vice president, and James G,
McN'ary. of 101 Paso, Texas, fifth vice
president.
No meeting place for the next session
of the congress was selected. This
matter was left to the board of gov
ernors to select a city which will best
serve the interests of the congress.
The report of the committee on reso
lotions, which was read by Chairman
Wm. K. Smythe, of San Francisco, rec
ommended the sale of ripe timber from
forest reserves in order to build reser
voirs for storing irrigation waters. A
strong recommendation was also made
that legislation be enacted looking to
a reduction to the land owneis in the
cost of construction on reclamation
projects where such costs are excessive
as reported by the board of cost review.
A permanent memorial to irrigation
to be erected in Salt Lake City, by the
congress, was also recommended to be
built. A study of the water resources
I of the world by an international com-
I (Continued on Pago Two)
biggest demonstration of the day was
staged. Members of a democratic club
marched alongside the train as it ran
through the city and red lights flared.
Democratic speakers in automobiles
addressed the crowds which lined the
tracks.
As the president's train passed
through West Albany the engineers on
nearly a score of locomotives blew
their whistles shrilly. Local politicians
boarded the train at several stops and
met Mr. Wilson.
Tomorrow morning the president's
train is to make brief stops at Goshen,
Ind., Elkhart, Ind.. South Bend. Ken
dallville, Ind., Ligonier and Gary. He
will arrive in Chicago at 11:50 o'clock.
Three speeches are. on the president's
program in Chicago.
uo mm
IS HONORED BY
UNIONISTS
More Assurance Carranza
Is Going Hard After Villa
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.. Oct. 18.
Supplemental assurances from General
Carranza that he is beginning a new
and vigorous campaign against Villa
were received today by his representa
tives on the Mexican-American joint
commission. The head of the de facto
Mexican government asserted all avail
able troops would be used in the pur
suit of the bandit.
The American commissioners re
viewed at the joint session a carefully
prepared statement of the Mexican
commissioners as to conditions as well
as proposals for restoration and main
tenance of peace along the frontier.
This statement also included arguments
designed to show why the American
troops Bhould be withdrawn from Chi
huahua. The Mexicans insist they are cap
able of driving Villa and other out
HUGHES NOT FDR
1
ARE UNTIED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KALAMAZOO, Mich., Oct, 18.
Charles E. Hughes told an audience in
the armory here tonight that a vote for
him, far from being a vote for war,
meant a vote for the maintenance of
American rights and that when Amer
icans went abroad lawfully to further
American enterprises, they should go
with the "backing of the American gov
ernment.
The nominee assailed the adminis
tration for its foreign policy, for its
claim that it had aided business, for
the Underwood tariff, for alleged fail
ure to observe the merit system in
making appointments, and for extrava
gance. He declared the present pros-
pertfy of the country temporary and
due to the European war. The federal
reserve bill, he said, givin? credit
where credit was due," was largely the
result of the report of the republican
monetary commission, and contained
"defects which should be removed."
Mr. Hughes also took occasion to
correct a misquotation of the official
transcription of his speech at Omaha
in which he was quoted as saying that
the administration had not clarified the
anti-trust act but had added a "fake
phrase." Mr. Hughes said he had not
used the words "fake phrase' but that
he said that the phrase was a vague
phrase.
The special train carrying Mr.
Hughes on his campaign trip, delayed
by a freight wreck, reached Kalama
zoo more than two hours late. Mr.
Hughes was greatly fatigued by the
day of traveling, which was broken
only by stops at Niles and Dowagiac.
He spoke for ten minutes at Niles and
said a few words to the crowd at
Dowagiac. The Hughes special loft Kal
amazoo two hours late.
In his speech here the nominee again
replied to the declaration that he was
the "sponsor for invisible government."
"I came into public life as the op
ponent of invisible government," he
said. "I came into high public office
in New York because of the belief of
the people of that state that I was the
opponent of invisible government;
during nearly four years that it was
my privilege to serve in executive ca
pacity there was no invisible govern
ment in Albany, and if I am elected
president of the United States there
will be no invisible government in
Washington.
"I believe in government according
to the intent of our constitutional sys
tem. I am opposed to abdicating offi
cial or moral authority on the demand
of force, either of labor or of capital.
"I propose that in all that we do. to
settle the grave problems that will un
doubtedly confront us, that we proceed
in the American manner, to judge the
facts, to ascertain what is true, and
in the light of the facts, to legislate
and execute in accordance with our
best ability.
"I do not propose that laws shall be
passed without inquiry at the demand
of any one. I do not propose that any
mysterious influences shall be put over
in the lobbies of the capitol. 1 pro
pose that we shall have government in
the open."
Mr. Hughes, replying to the declara
tion that a vote for him meant a vote
for war, declared that that was "a most
extraordinary way of attempting to
fence."
"I grant you," he said, "that a vote
for me does mean a vote for the main
tenance of American rights; but it is
a great fallacy to suppose that main
tenance of American rights involves
a surrender of the ideals of peace, or
a disregard of the vast importance of
peace.
"I desire to have ever' opportunity
open for legitimate American enter
prise. The importance of protecting
our citizens should be noted inMhat
connection. We have a remarkable
demonstration of a lack of thoughtful -ness.
at least, on the part of the ad
ministration at this time, or at least
so far as it is represented in speech."
Mr. Hguhes was presented by the
Hughes-Fairbanks club with a cane,
which, he was told, was made from a
rail split by Abraham Lincoln and
presented by Lincoln to D. S. Wal
bridge at Kalamazoo in 1856. In
acknowledging the gift Mr. Hughes
said:
"I cannot think at this time of any
benediction that can possibly fall upon
the American people equal in import-
(Continued on Page Twol
laws away from the border but the
Americans' attitude is that he must
demonstrate ability to do more than
that. The Americans insist that any
agreement affecting the control of the
border must be based upon a reason
able indication that the Mexican
authorities are capable of maintaining
effective government in the interior.
The willingness of the Americans not
to urge compliance with their sugges
tions at this time Is due to a hope that
General Carranza may be able to di
rect a successful warfare against
Villa.
It was learned today that the troops
sent northward yesterday were, not
intended for the campaign against Villa
but to relieve troops at Aguas Calientes
and Zacatecas. who, in turn, would be
sent north to Torreon to relieve others
that would be sent into the hills in
- search of Villa.
