MEADE
COUNTY
NEWS
v.
The Only PemociatiC Paper In Meade County
Official County Paper
J tat0
ir
VOLUME XVII.
MEADE. KANSAS. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1918.
Shouse Visits Meade
Hon. Juuett Shouse, Democrat
ic Congressman from ihe Sev
enth Districted canilidale for
re election, delivered the most
able address, it has been the
p'easure of our people to listen
to since theopemng of the pres
ent campaign, at tbeopera house
last Thursday evening.
Mr. Shouse was considered
one of the most activr, influen
tial men in Congressman, and
though a new man there, was
appointed to a place on the
Banking and Currency Commit
tee, which is among the most im
portant in Coagress.4 As a mem
ber of the committee be helped
frame and finally witnessed the
President's signing, the Rural
Credits Bill, of which he spoke
at length. The low interest
rate, long ime loans, no com
missions, amortization plan of
payment.arid co-operation among
farmers; all features of the bill,
he very carefully explained- It
i a fact worthy of note, that the
Rural Credits Bill is the first ef
fective legislation in favor of the
farmer, enabling him to borrow
, money at the lowest possible
rate of Interest, which will not
exceed six percent, and for as
long a time as he desrres and it
took a Democratic President and
a Democratic Congress to per
fact such a aw.
Following this he reviewed the
accomplishments of the Demo
cratic ad minimisation, and spoI;e
in the highest of President Wil.
son's Foreign and Mexican pol-
icies, and assured his' audienceMrfi. Shouse spoilt in Plains and
that so long- as it- is possible j the afternoon in Fowler.
Why
Buy A B
T7 "3" Ol
H
ah a
eater :
killm -
HT A ill S U '
I h III 113 '
sThis Is Why
When you examine the construction of the Square Base Oak,
you will discover why it weighs twice as much as the ordinary
heater, why the ash pit is seamless, why the fire pot is double,
why the Boiler Iron body is extra heavy, why it is fitted gas
tight. You will also discover it costs no ,more a pound than
the imitation stoves which are so extravagant in fuel.
Xhe Hardships of Something
Cheaper
In the selection of a cheaper stove, it is necessary to reconcile
onesself to a smaller value, higher fuel bills, and lack of con
trol. Disappointment is ever present and in a few years the
stoye gives out. Why invite this condition when you can
safeguard yourself in the purchase of the original?
We invite the opportunity of demonstrating these in
teresting facts.
SOLD ONLY BY
W. F. Casteen & Go.
Notice
. To the Voters of Meade Co
Owing tQ certain condition
which have recently developed
I feel it is advisable that I wiih
drriw from the race for Repre
sentative. Thanking all my friends for
their efforts in my behalf, I beg
to remain, ' N
Yotors sincerely,
C. M.'Gates.
E. W. Bocook and wife are
here from Grant county.
that hand which- has so wiseiy
guided the destinies of this na
tion since March 4th, 1913, will
preserve peace with honor.
Mr. Shouse is qualified and
his work during his first term in
Congress has proven that he is
capable. Important legislation
is still pending, and this being
true, it seems that it would be
folly to retire a man of Jouett
Sbouse's ability and send to
Washington in his place a man
who fights the air, talks, but
says uothing.
A large audience grteted the
speaker and throughout bis two-
hours' talk breathless' silence
reigned. His address was well
received and his record as a
representative from the Seventh
District will be rewarded by a
nice vote from Meade county.
Mrs. Shouse accompanied tlU-
Congressman. A reception was
given in her honor, by the Demo
cratic Indies, from 7 to X p m, at
tie R. A. 'Harper honii.
Thursday morning Mr. . r.nd
etter
ihe Doer Frames Are RivefoJ on
r
the Genuine Round Oak Steves!
OUR DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES
As the time for the bi-ennial
election is approaching we wish
to calfyour attention to the dem
ocratic candidates, and to solicit
your support for them, if in your
iudEment, after a careful inves
tigation of their several records,
they are entitled to support. It
is well known that however qual
ified and competent one may be
generally speaking, there are
many things to get on to lor
the proper management of a
county office, and it is a lament
able fact that just about- the
time an officer becomes so fa
miliar with his work that he, can
render the public the best ser
vice a great many people are
prone to turn him out and install
a "green hand" whom it will take
a year or two to get on to his
job, and the tax payers pay for
his experience and education in
the meantime, and it is otten
costly experience for the coun
ty. The County Commissioners
are, in many respects, the most
important officers of the county,
in that, they are its business
managers. For Commissioners
of the 2nd District we are asking
you to support John Cordes for
a second term. Mr. Cordes came
to Meade county in 1885, then a
young man. He was married in
Meade county and has reared a
family here, all Meade county
products. He has gone through
all that the early settlers had to
contend with, and has watched
Meade .county grow and prosper,
and has been a very potent fac
tor in the development of the
county. During his more than,
thirty-one years residence here
!io man has ever sojnuch as sus
nicioned the honesty and integri-
! ty of Jor-n Lordes. and more than
of extraordinary good judgment
and keen discrimination. His
record as County Commissioner
lias been one of progressive con
servativism. Progressive in that
he standi; for all ruodsd or de
sirable improvements, and con
servative in that he carefully
weighs every proposition and be
bore consenting to an outlay ox
the people's money ho must be
shown that the public will re
ceive one-hundred cents benefit
for every dollar expended. There
is but one line of argument be-!tr5.'.:nar importance were compro
ing urged against Mr. Cordes's'mised, the defendant paying the
re-election, and that is that he costs. Of the cases in which con
has permitted the other two vk-tions and sentences were se
Commissioners to grab all the cured one vas murder, two burg
kvnd;? expended by the county i lary, oiie forgery, ova rape, saver.
i upon- road3 for their respective j wero violations of the Prohil.i
I districts, and has not secured -tory Liquor Law,, and the other
I sufficient improvement at the j various misdemeanors,
county's expense for the roads of j lr. Sullivan has the good
(his own district. This talk, it i nense to ki'ow when a caso or.ghi
jwas considered, would catch the! to be brought and wh?n one
i popular ear. and cause the voters rhodd not be, and thereby has
! of the 2nd district to forsake Mr. j caved the county hundreds, per
i Cordes for someone who might; haps thousands of dollars, by
promise to do more for them, .voiding potty and useless liti
Eut thi3 line of argument fallslgation for which an inexperi-
ilat when considered in the light
of the truth. The facts are, as
shown by the records, that dur
ing Mr. Cordes term of office,
there have been designated as j two for wife desertion, all im
county roads in his district 22 portant cases. Thosn may or
miles, as against 30 miles in"-Mr. ! may not be tried in the term of
Roberts district and 57 miles in ! court which convenes next week,
Mr. N4vinger's district. And J one never can tell, as the law is
during the same period of time j very liberal in allowing continu
there has been expended oniances, but whether tried or not,
bridges in Mr. Cordes district j they will no doubt be before the
the sum of nine thousand dollars ; next County Attorney in some
as against six thousand in Mr.
Roberts district, and none in Mr.
Novingers district. And so while
it is true that the 2nd district
has fewer miles of county roads
than either of the other districts,
yet the amount of public money
spent in this district for the im
provements of highways is
greater than. in either of the eth
er districts.
T. B. Novinger, our candidate sas has a better record than
for Commissioner from the 3rd ' Frank S. Sullivan, and if the
distrinct, is also an old timer, ! voters of Meade county - will
and is one of the most solid, gauge him by the record he has
level-headed nen who ever J made, rather than by the unsup
served oh the board. He has ; ported statements of personal
given his district no bridges be-'or political enemies, he will be
cause none has been needed, ex- re-elected by an unprecedented
cept possibly one across the Cim-' majority,
arron, but competent engineers' The County Treasurer is a
employed by the board have ad- very important officer, as he han-
vised that no permanent bridge
can be built across this stream at
a justifiable cost, and the rock
i'ord across this river on the
county road will serve the pur
pose of a bridge very nicely un
til the county is able to spend
twenty or thirty thousand dol
lars for a bridge that will stand.
Mr. Novinger has served his dis
trict ar.d his county with wisdom
and fidelity, and the fifty-seven
miles of county rpads in his dis
trict should satisfy hi3 constitu
ents that he is looking after
their interest in particular as
well as after the interest of the
public in general.
Those opposing Mr. Novinger s
re-election are using the same
line of argument against him
that is being used against Mr.
Cordes, that he has let the other
commissioners get all the
"plums" for their district. The
facts are that public improve
ments have been divided among
the three districts as nearly even
as practicable, and any talk to
the contrary is cheap political
buncombe
The present Board of County
Commissioners has spent much
time and effort in studying the
road proposition, have the work
well lined up and organized, and
it would be foolish to make a
change in the Board at this time,
Next in importance to the of
fice of Commissioner, and of
more importance in many ways,
is the office of County Attorney
Aside from the prosecution of
criminal: cases, and civil cases in "a6uii wi"
Ai ' i i i.. r.ihave reason to feel proud. Vote
County Attorney is the legal ad
viser of all other county officers
in ge.i-ir;il, and of the Board of
County Cunimu'sioriers in pr.r
i icukr, hence his position is one
not 0i:!y a thorough knowledge
o;' luw, but sou'.id judgment and
tibc'elKm as well. This i.:; an
oii'vt? that should not lo entrust
ed to a novice, and on a in which
c: p:-;ienc-j counts for more than
if. any other oil'ice. Tim pn-se-nt
oivumbMit, . Frank S. Sullivan,
has made ?ood in every sense of
tti;; word.. Dunns tbe past t srrr.s
he has prosecuted twenty-five
criminal cases and secured con-
ictioiis in twenty-three o'-' them.
IT! reo or lour other cases of
enced man would fall
The County Attorney now has
in charge one murder ca:;e, one
under the "white slave" law and
form, especially should they be
appealed to the Supreme Court,
which some are sure to be, and it
would be the sheerest folly for
the people to deprive themselves
of the services of Mr. Sullivan
whose record as County Attor
ney proves his ability, and whose
experience is invaluable to his
constituents. ' ,,
No County Attorney in Kan-
Representative
I take pleasure in announcing
to the citizens of Meade county
t.iat I am the Republican hom
inee for Representative of the j
122nd district, and inasmuch as!
I expect to represent, the inter
ests of all the people, I respect
ively submit my candidacy for
the consideration of all the peo
ple and sincerely request that
the women voters make an extra
effort to cast a vote on Novem
ber 7th, 1916.
GEO. W. DAV.
The regular teacher's examin
ation will be held at the County
Superintendent's Office' Friday
and Saturday October 27 and 28
dies all the county's money. Not
only should he be a man of un
questioned honesty and upright
ness, but he should also be a man
of ability, a good bookkeeper,
and experienced in some line
that would tend to fit him for
this office. For this important
office we ask your support for
Preston L. Davis of Plains. Mr
Davis' came to Meade county
something more than fifteen
years ago and settled upon a
homestead in West Plains town
ship. Since coming to this coun
ty he has farmed, taught school,
was postmaster at Plains, and
for the last five or six years has
been engaged in the mercantile
business. He is an excellent
penman, an excellent bookkeeper
a thorough business man, a
quiet, unassuming, likable gen
tleman, and he will make a Coun
foi him.
Very close to the heart of all pioa for a ncw trial will be that
Lansans is our educational sys-t.he evidence was insufficient to
tern, and we are all interested in warrant a verdict ' of guilty,
v.-hom ve are going to have for which the' jury brought in after
County Saperinteadtfnt. iiissj deliberation of two hours, and
hatu JV'arrin is the democratic; u .at Judfi-o Downer erred in not
nominee, and she is so well allowing Sweet a preliminary
known that comment sems al-' l?eavin?. Sweet's preliminary
most useless. The Martins arc? hearing was held on tlje prairie
;ni;i:;; the eldest settlers of in Grant county at midnight, the
Meade county, and Kats is a prisoner being taken to the hear-solf-made
girl, and a deserving ing in ;.n auto from Dodge City,
.'no. As a toacher she ranks where he was confined for fear
among the highest, having had ,t' rnob vioierca in Grant county,
several years experience in Kan- At tin district court trial
sas and other states, and the ccr-
tilicatf? she carries is one of the
best. Added to her educational
uiahAcations and experience in
teacbiiij;, she is a woman of rare
judgment and executive ability,
find she will handle the many
pvrrJexin;jr problems that con-
iront every County Superintend
ent with honor to hersllf
credit to the public schools. You
wiil make no mistake in casting
ycur v-jf.-? for Kate Martin.
(V.r oth :r candidates, John F.1 -
iio'.t, Lem ICkb, Dr. Fee, the
'.'act that tho opposition have
brought out no one against tith-
'jr of them is proof oi' the degree
if satisfaction with which they
have discharged
duties.
their official
3V SW 5aVk ?Vbou
That Word Loyalty terms the city concern offers. It
Let us consider that word loy- means going to your neighbor
alty loyalty to the old home and saying, "Mr. Merchant, I am
town. To be loyal is to be faith- a resident of this community. I
ful to a friend, a cause or a prin- want to do all I can do to help my
ciple. To be loyal is to be true, town, and if you can do as well
Eut. in business in spending by me as the city concern, quali
money loyalty does not mean ty and price considered, I am go
that you should buy something ing to give you my patronage."
you do not want, or something When you have done this, you
you do not need. It does not have done your part. That's
mean that you should accept an business loyalty loyalty in the
article of inferior quality, or, strict meaning of the word. But
that you should pay two prices, usually the loyal citizen does
It does not mean that you should not stop merely at giving the
trade with a merchant simply home merchant a chance at hia
because he happens to be in busi- business. He gives the word loy
ness in your town. It does not alty a broader meaning. He
mean that you should sell your takes a, general interest in his
labor or that which you produce neighbors in their social life.
for less than the market price. He belongs to a lodge or two he
Loyalty means the golden rule is in the church, perhaps and
to do unto others as you. would he has a finger in every good
have others to do unto you. It thing that is proposed to make
means to give your home mer- his home town a better tpwn. He
chant the first chance at your is broad, generous, open-hearted,
business to give him a chance And, he possesses these splendid
a. .11 jm am malifiAa VAaiiaa Via ia lnvnl
Ml 1111 yuur urucio uii mc oamu
SIX PER CENT MONEY
On Your Farm
Interest Payable Annually
Frank Fuhr, Meade, Kansas
Offic ovar Firat National Bank
Baptist Church Dedication
Next Sunday morning at 11
o'clock the new Baptist church
will be dedicated. Rev.' J. M.
Robinson, who organized the
congregation, and who was pas
tor for a number of years, will
deliver the address.
A beries of revival meetings,
conducted by Evangelist Fred
Berry will follow. The program
for the week is given in full in
the Baptist church notes.
Sunday night .tbe' weather
changed from the summer va
riety to the winter in a hurry.
A light snow covered the ground
Monday morning.
Dodge City, Kan., Oct. 16.
Attorney Donald Muir was in
TWo-p T.itv tndav on his wav to
New Ulysses, Grant county, to
serve notice on County Attorney
Stubbs that the defense will ap
peal the case of Archi? Sweet to
the state supreme court.
Sweet was convicted last
spring of the murder of Nellie
Byers, a Grant county school
teacher, and is now serving a life
sentence for the crime. Muir
was one of the lawyers who de
fended him.
Preliminary Not Regular?
Two of the principal points on
wnicn tne neiense win mane us-
Sweet claimed he waived his pre-
hniir.ary hearing because the of
ficers told him auto loads of
Grant county men were out
searching for the place of hold
ing the preliminary, and ho
feared he would lie lynched.
The attorneys wanted another
preliminary hearing for their cli-
andlent, but Judge Downer refused
to grant it.
j Evidence Circumstantial 1
The evidence against Sweet
: was circumstantial, but strong,
J Sweet took the stand in his own
defense, but his admissions were
a potent factor in his conviction,
'.The crime was one of the most
atrocious ever committed in
western Kansas and the case
aroused widespread interest.
Some "5vvcs
ufluwj mvvwmov w
