t
h IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1916.
jJ. NUMBER IB.
IS WILSON 11
E C 0 N D LINCOLN
i n .it -1 i ill.... riil.,.i
Airam i uinu iuj nun
lame," President Replies
lo His Admirer.
THE WAY TO CHICAGO.
Irn Slinkc Hand .So Vigorously
It 1111 Injure n linger fircet-
od li.v llrd l-'lrc mill Hands.
wise, 2N. y (Jet. lb, on Hoard prcsi
Wilson's special train. President
was greeted liy cheering crowds
Nrw York cities and towns during
idops this Afternoon and to-night
passed through tho State on his
Chicago to speak there to-morrow.
l-actise lie not his first glimpse, dur-
campalgn, of red lights burnim;
honor
resident refuseil to make extended
lea at any of the stops, hut In each !
thanked the crowds lirlelly for
If lo set him At Albany he said:
m n very poor hanil, my friends,
mmciiding no self. You all know
xnctly what has been done by the
It administration and you know just
It as 1 do how to Judge It, so that
perfectly content to leave myself
hands of the Jury."
Inelda to-night a man in the crowd
I'l:
rrnh for the second Abraham Lln-
nfrald I can't play that same,"
lesldi nt called back.
fVilsou aiipeared on the observation
m of his private car at Harmon,
Ikccpslo, Albany, Schenectady, Am-
n, Fonda, Plica. Home and Oneida . P" "i uw i uuoa nmios nave eno un
reachlng Svracuse. Stons of more doubted right, as Individual os collee-
Ive minutes wen lnnde here and
lany. hut at the other places tile
mused only a minute or two.
President's hand was shaken so
usly at Albany that the skin was!
Iff a finger on his right hand and
lorol mil .ites he stood w ith a bloody
"rchlef In one band, shaking bands
llio other
good red-blood, anyway," called
man
light Dr Cniy T.
Ciraysou, the
bound up the
AViison shook
House physician,
11 finger and Mr.
with his left hand.
rcvernl stops local democrats had
ed bands which played when Mr.
appeared. Hero at Syracuse the
It demonstration of the day was
Members of a democratic club
led alongside Pie train as it ran
L'h the city, and red lights flared,
ratle speakers hi automobiles ad-
Id tho crowds which lined the-
llio President's train passed through
Albany tho engineers on neatly a
lot locomotives blew their whistles
Local politicians boarded the train
leral stops and met Mr. Wilson.
President s train will arrive In
go at i1 r.0 o'clock to-morrow morn-
I'lireo speeches are on the Frcsi-
schcdulc at Chicago.
:00 p, m. he w ill address the Press
If Chicago at a luncheon. At 2::!0
I ho will return to his hotel where
11 confer with Senator Thomas .1.
manager of western democratic
lal headiuiarters and other party
At 4 00 p. m. he will address
partisan mass meeting; for wnm-
lly at the Auditorium. Mrs. Klla
Young, former superintendent of
pilcago public schools, will preside
Is meeting and Miss Jane Addams
Lccupy a scit In a box with Mrs.
IS iio a tu President Wilson will
Ir an address at the third annual
ng of the New Citizens' Allegiance
stockyards' pavilion.
Isldcnt Wilson will leave Chicago
ll.'j p. m, for the Kust.
WASSON TESTIFIES
DUNCAN WAS SANE
lloNpltnl Kvpcrt on Stand In
Murder Trial.
land. Oct IS. -Taking the stand as a
for the State In rebuttal, Dr. il.
asson, assistant snpeiintenilent of
late bosil al for insane at Waler-
testllled to-day in P.utland coun'y
Hint after hearing the cvidenra
dmlng the entire trial and nssum-
Icts pie.sen'cd to lit 1)1 in a long bv-
llcal question to be true, he would
liat George W Duncan, who is
I for wife murder, was sanu at the
lie tdiot Mrs. Duncan on August r.
Dr. Wassou was on the witnes'i
a long time and was subjected to a
kud severo cross-examination by the
lident's counsel. He iiualllled ait an
with tho statement that he had
lissoeiated witli the State Institution
Irs during which time lie had about
Insanity cases under Ills observation.
prosecution also Intioduced to-day
vidence of Rutland men who km w
in and wlio testified to rational aett
respondent Just before ami on thi
' the shooting. There Is a probability
the Jury may get the case in lis
Iduy.
pklin Republicans to Meet
Albans, Oct. IS, A meeting of tho
kiln county republicans will bo held
Io city null to-moriow inotnlng at
lock, nccording to the announce-
I of Harold P l-'alrchlld of Falrdeld,
kiln county member of the republl-
Itato committee. The meeting Is for
jrposo of exchanging Ideas for mu-
Iieneflt during the campaign. Con
nan Prank L. Oreeno will bo prcs-
Ind It fs expected that tho Hon.
W. Hulburd of Hyde Park, repub-
candldato for lieutenant-governor.
Ittcnd,
Iing thoso expected nt tlie meeting
io candidates for county olllces and
representatives and members of tho
ly committee aim tnu various town
llttees.
Washington County Court.
Iitpoller, Oct. 18. Tho following cases
I been filed with the county cici k ror
at tho March term: Constaulzn
lo vs. IXJUIB LUVUi oi uarre, iiespass
Ie person, J50J; C, P. Hatch of North
vs. Peter Taylor of Harre, general
Inpslt. J-'10. a" appeal by tho de
bit from Juatlco Iiulloclt oi Norm-
Kva L. McAllister vs. Donovan J.
I lister, Anna Hallard vs. Charles
rd, divorce petitions. In the Lavln
tho n a nt ft a leges tlint tno no-
Lnt assaulted him and boat him with
ir of brass unuc:ic3.
PRESIDENTS WORDS
BELIED HIS DEEDS,"
SAYS ROOSEVELT
Louisville, Ky Oct. lS.-Asscrtlng tlint i
for three years there had been no "pro
tection of our citizens aliruail" Theodore
Roosevelt, in an address here to-night '
behalf of Charles E. Hughes, rc.ul!i- j
eau nominee for president, assailed tho
course of President Wilson In dealing
with Mexico, and his conduct of the
country's foreign affalis.
"It combined lofty promise and com
plete failure In performance. It consisted
of words which wore nullified by deeds,"
ho said in summing up his view of the
President's course.
Entering Kentucky In the forenoon,
Colonel ltooscvelt delivered more limn a
dozen rear platform addresses before
leaching Louisville. Crossing the Ohio
river at Cincinnati, his course took him
almost to the Tennesseo line. At Paris
and Cynthlana, ho told his audiences he
was glad to be In Kentucky wheie If It
was necessary "the people were not too
pioiid to Hunt."
On his arrival here this evening be was
met at the railroad station by a law
crowd which escorted him to Phoenix
Hill Park, about two miles away, where
be spoke. Many persons, unable to effect
an entrance, were turned away.
Colonel Roosevelt said In purl:
"At the outset of my speech 1 wish in
point out, as I have elsewhere pointed out,
that tile doctrine now often advanced tu.
to the impropriety of criticising the Pre i
ilent. without any regard as to whe her
tho criticism Is or Is not Just, has no war
lant either In history or on grounds -
public morality. Andrew ' Jackson In a
message to the Senate on April IB, 1.S31, put
the case exactly as It should be put. lie
said:
"The President is accountable nt th"
h:ir of Ttllhlln onllllon for everv act of hn
administration. Subject only to the 1 -'
stralnfs of truth and Justice, the free pen
lively, orally or In writing at such tlmoi
ami in suen language ami mini ns inc.-
may think pioper, to discuss bis olllclal
conduct and express and promulgate their
opinions concerning It."
"This lays down the law that should bo
followed Theie must be truth and justly
in all that Is said of the Piesldent, o"
of any one dse; but less than any on-'
other man in 'he nation has lie the right
to claim immunity from any criticism 'li.v
Is both lust and truthful. T criticise Presi
dent Wilson because his deeds have belled
his wolds, and his words have belied one
mother.
"Mr. Wilson's promises before elec
tion, both those made in his own
speeches, and those made in the pint
form, have been so well-nigh invariably
broken, that the breaking of them lias
become a subject for Ji st even nniong
bis own friends. One of Mr. Wilson's
prominent democratic supporters in
Congress stated with refreshing frank-
ness the exact truth about Mr. Wilson's 1
pre-election promises, and those made
on his belvilf, when In answer to some
charge of Inconsistency, he responded
by saying that "our platfoim was made
to gi't Into office on and we have won."
You will find this remark on page 401 S
of the Congressional Record, the third
session of the !2nd Congress It Is im
possible to study Mr. Wilson's pre-election
promises and post-election per
formances; It is impossible to compare
the diametrically opposed attitudes he
has assumed at different times on al
most every public question; it is im
possible to compare what ho says in
one set of speeches with what ho says
in another set, without feeling that
what this congressional supporter of
his said of his platform applies also in
ills speeches.
,U the outset of this war Mr. Wilson
had one of two courses to follow. He
could by deeds stand up for our own
rights against everyone, and champion
the rights of the weak against the strong
In all cases; or else be could slbnilt to our
belni; wrontfed by everyone, and acquiesce
SUNDAY SCHOOL CONVENTION
1Mb Annual Sessions of Vt. AmsocIiiI Inn
(pencil nt llrnttlelioro Miitf llllile
Society III Yearly Meeting.
lirattleboro, Oct. IS. Tlie ISth annual
convention of the Vermont State Sunday
School association and the 104th anni
versary of the Vermont Iliblo society are
being obseived hero in a three days' con
vention which opened this afternoon In
the l-'irst Iiaptlst Church. The attend
ance of delegates crowded the. church
auditorium. The Itev. William Shaw,
Ph. D.,,of Montpeller, president of the
Sunday School association, presided at
the afternoon meeting.
Tlie address of the afternoon was by ,
John L. Alexander of Chicago, second J
division superintendent of the Interna
tional Sunday Si hool association.
At the annual meeting of the Whip ,
society In the afternoon tlieso officers
were elected: President, W. A, Davison,
D, D.. of liurllngton; vice-presidents, H. '
W. Vnrnum of .leffersouvllle and the Itev.
S. 11. Itankln of Newport, recoidlnB secre
tary, tlie Itev. James D. Sargent of
Northlleld; tteasurer, Dr. O. n. Stickney
of Harre: auditor, 11. C Woodbury of
llarre. This evening tlie principal address
was by President fitly Potter Henton of
the University of Vermont on "The lilble
und Practical Life "
VERMONT POSTOFFICE
EMPLOYES INDICTED
Rutland, Oct IS. Two more arrests havo
been made as the outcome of Indictment.
found by the grand Jury at the October
term of the Pnlted States district court
In this city. Austin W Phalen of Dorse',
a postmaster, was taken Into custodv by
Deputy Pnlted States Marshal Kdwanl ri.
Whlttakor of this city on a capias charg
ing him with embezzlement of federal
funds, Ho was admitted tu ball by C im
mlssloner Thomas H. Srownn of tills city.
Krncst K. Keefo of lirattleboro, a rural
ft oo delivery mall carrier, also aricsled be
Mr, Whlttakcr, was released on ball by
Commissioner J. H. (lalo of Jlrattlelnm,
He Is charged with misappropriating JH.uj
given him to obtain a money order. Ho
claims that ho lost the money.
Union Mutual Co. Elects.
Montpeller, Oct. IS. Tho Pnlon Mutual
Fire Insurance company lit tho nniiunl
meeting to-day made hut one chungo in
the list of dltectois, electing Henry L.
Farwell In place nf John 11. Senter, de
ceased. The following officeis woro elect
ed; James W. Urock, president; Herbert
P. HriBliatn, vice-president; Harlan W
Kemp, Iroasurer; Ralph I), Denny, as
sistant secicttiry
when wrongs were committed
hv
llio strong against th (nk, oven al
though wo liad covenanted that such
nrst
-o,io.. nut IH! cnillllllllOII. 1 I O I
porury risk and of permanent safety. Hi'
hum inn course or nmor. of tcin-
tun not follow
not follow It. Tho second was tho
course of dishonor, of temporary safety
and "of pcimnncnt danger, lie followed It.
As to the course wc ought to have fol
lowed, it Is to be found laid down In his
own utterances, and In tho platform of
his own party.
"For three years there has been no pro
tection of our citizens abroad. The rights
of u citizen of the Pulled States to de
mand protection of bis government when
wronged by n foreign power have been
settled by the Supreme Court of
Putted States, when it said (S3 P. S., p
79):!
"It is the privilege of a citizen of lb
Pulled States to demand the care and
protection of the federal government
over his life, libi rty and property when
on the high seas or within the Jurisdiction
of a foreign goveinmi nt." This applied
to our citizens on the Lnsitunia and the
Arabic who lost their livi s lrom Ger
uuin submarines. It applied to our citi
zens In Mexico and Chihuahua, who tost
their lives at the bauds of the Mexican
soldiers of Carranza. It applied to the
Americans whose property was taken In
violation of the principles, of international
law by the English lleet. The right to
life comes aliiad of the right to property,
and unless we first deal with the offenses
against tin- lives of our citizens, we havo
no Justification for dealing with offenses
against the property rights of our citi
zens. Put If we hail done our duty In
tile first case, it would then have be
come Incumbent upon us to do our duty
in the latter case. At this moment our
first lllltv should be to see Ibnl Amerle.'iti
citizens, especially women and chlldrin,
.shall not be set afloat in row boats miles
off our coast on the October seas, as a
result of submarine attacks on merchant
vessels.
"This case of rielglum was the first
of Mr. Wilson's international sins. 11
combined lofty promise and complete
failure In performance. It consisted of
words which were nullified by deeds. In
tin se respects he made It the precedent
which he followed ever afterwards. He
followed It when he wrote his "strict ac
countability" note to Cermany and then
for a year held (lermnny to no account
ability, either strict or loose, while it
'sunk ship after ship with thousands of
' non-combatants. Including hundreds of
' Americans; and no atonement lias been
i made for the lives thus lost to this day.
When he dealt with our property rights,
Mie aiiuoiincid to Kngland ihat the Pulled
States intended fearlessly to accept the
1 "championship" of neutral rlnhts. Put,
as In the case of Ills note to C.ermany,
lie did nothing to back up his words.
They were words and nothing else. He
said lie would hold Mexico to a "strict
responsibility,
and he did not hold her
to any responsibility. He said lie would ;
hold (lermany to "strict accountability,"!
and be did not hold her to any account-
ability. He said that the Hngllsli block
ade was Illegal, Ineffective, and Inde
lensible; and he neither made his words
ood nor ncted on them. He announced
that he would Insist on nil our rights;
and then he abandoned them all. He
wiole strong notes, to both sides; and
lie took no action to hack up the notes
to either side. Wo accomplished nothing
' with either side. We Incurred resentment
floni ltolb slitejl til tnst nnn resneet tt-,i
1 liave succeeded. We bnve Inilnrr.l llw. !
belligerents to agree on one point. They
ague iii their utter contempt for Amer
ica, in their conviction that the American
i people cannot hi goaded Into virile action
to defend the lives of their men, women
'and children, and In their certainly that
" , ," m.ii.
.lie uiiuiiiMi only liy llio m-siie itt
profit by the agonies of our Huropeun
lirothers.
"Instead
"I speaking softly and carry
ing a big Mirk, President
bombastically ami carried
Wilson spoke
a ilishrog"
SPEAKERS ANNOUNCED
Itepiililleaii Slat,. Coliimltlee Clw
schedule for Mi-n of National
lii'lintiiliini.
Montpeller tu t Iv-Althoimh tti. places
have not been definitely decided upon the
dates upon v. id. b the speakers of na
tional lepiiinilon will speak In Vermont
ai.. as follows, according to information
lecelveil at the republican Statu com
mittee hoadquui ters: October 27. Wade
Kills of Ohio, October , Henry Ksta
brook of New Yotk; October II". ex-CoV.
I'ernabl of Maine. November :i, ex
Preslilent W. H. Tan. It is expected that
State office! s or Vermont members ot
Congress will accompany each speaker.
STATE FIREMEN.
Association in llnic ".7th Annual Meet
ing ill llonlnellei- October :i.
Montpeller, Oct. lS.-Chief W. A Pattfe
of the locul lire department has charge of
tlie ariangeinetits for the i'7th annual
inciting of the Vermont Stale l-'lri men's
ussoclution, which is to he held lu-io Tues
day. October ;t, at two o'clock. Chief
Puttee Is a Hie-iber nl tlie executive com
mittee. C. A. Nlles of llurllngton, fr.
mer chlel of the Hurlingtoti department,
Is presldenl of the association. A banquet
will be held ill the evening.
PASTOR RESIGNS.
lle. It. I), ('runnier ( MiirrlMlllc
Culled to li-( eland I nit ermllsl ( linrcli.
Morrlsville. Oct. ls-Tlic Rev. R. D.
Criinmer, for four jours paslor of the
Pnlversallst Chinch here, will present
his resignation to-moirow evening to take
effect November 1.7 At that timo he will
go to Cleveland, Ohio, huvlng accepted n
call to the Pnlversallst Church in that
city
VERMONT A UTOMOIULE
DID THE DAMAGE
lirattleboro. int. IS.-Mrs. Allco llewes
of Pair View, Mass., telephoned Ktatn'H
Attorney O. II, Hughes lalo this after-
noon mat a car In which she with her
nusiiand and two sons were riding was
strink and ditched by a ear of Vermont
legisiry containing live men about live
miles i.outh of llrattleboio. The llowei
car was southbound and the other north
bound. Mrs, lluwes was Injured about
her head and tho other passengers wete
shaken up. The car was considerably
damaged Tho occupants of the other cur
bud not bu-uu uwauJit. luXn iliU huuIiw.
tnmcly
VOTE FOR HUGHES
NOTVOTEFOR WAR
Republican Candidate Brands
Wilson Phrase as "Extra
ordinary Fencing."
SPEAKS AT KALAMAZOO.
Declare lie ('nine Into Public Life ns
Foe of Invisible Got eminent and
Mill llcllews III !llilp Colli if,
Kalamazoo, Mich., Oct. It. Charles
Hughes told an audience In the nrni'iv
theiheie to-night that a vote for him, far
from being a vote for war, meant a o
for Hie maintenance of American rights,
and that uhen Americans went abroa I
lawfully to fin liter American enterprls-s,
they should go with the "backing of tlu
American government."
Tile nominee assailed the administration
for lis foreign policy, for its claim that 1'
had aided business, for the I'nderwiw. 1
tariff, for alleged failure to observe th.j
merit system In making appointments and
for extravagance. He declared the ii m
cut prosperity of the country temporal y
and due to the Kiirope.in war. The fed
eral icscrve bill, ho said, "giving civ lit
where credit was due," was largely tin;
result of the repoit of the republican
monetary commission and contained "de
fects which should bo removed."
Mr. Hughes nlso took occasion to
correct n misquotation In the official
transcript of his speech at Omaha. In
which he was quoted as saying that the
1 administration had not clarified the
anti-trust act but had added a "fake
phrase." Mr. liugbes said be had not
' used Hie words "fake phrase" but that
he said that the phrase was a "vague
phrase."
, Tlie speclil train carrying Mr.
i Hughes was greatly fatigued bv tlu
day of traveling, which was broken
I only by stops at Nlles and Downgiae.
i He spoke foi ten minutes at N'lles and
I said a few words to the crow d at Dow-
agl.ic. The Hughes special left Kal
' amnzoo two hours late.
In his speech here the nominee again
replied to tlie declaration that he was
"sponsor for Invisible government."
"I came into public life as the opponent
of Invisible government." he said. "I
came into high public office In New York
because of the belief of the people of
i that Stale that I was the opponent of
Invisible government, duiiiig neatly four
years that It was my privilege to serve
In executive capacity there was no in
visible government at Albany, and if I
am elected piesldent of the Pulled States
there will be no Invisible government in
Washington."
Mr. Hughes, replying to the ileclarall i
that a vote for him meant a vole for .w .
declared that was "a most exttaordin .!
way of attempting to fence."
"I giant yon," he said, "that a vote (or
me docs mean n vote for the malntenaii' e
of American rights but it Is a great r.-'i-lacy
to suppose that maintenance of
American rights involves a surrender i.l
the Ideals of peace, or a ihsi egartl of t lis
vast improvement of peace.
I desiie to have every opportunity I'm
legitimate American enterprise."
Mr. Hughes was piesenled here by the
Hturhe'-rnlrbnnkH flub with a cane whhh
he was told, was made from a rail spilt I
Abraham
Lincoln and presented by Lin
coln to P S. Wnlbtiilge at Kalamazoo In
ISM.
STATE LIBRARIANS
AT ST. .IOHNSHURY
VI. Association und Vt. Pree Library
Colllllllssloii III Xnnuill Scs'ilnllN.
St. Johiisburv. Oct is The llrst ses
sion of the annual met lings of tlie Ver
mont Library association and the Ver
mont Free Llbpiry commission con
vened at the St .lolinsbury Atheiieum at
eight o'clock this evening. Tlie meet
ing was called to order by President
Miss Funny Fletcher of Prortorsvllle.
The report of the library publicity
committee shows large gains In public
ity during tlie year. The latter part
of tlie evening was devoted to business.
The meetings re-open at ;i on a. m.
Thursday The feature will be an nil
dt ess by Mllo 11. Hilleg is of Montpeller.
State superintendent of education. Tlie
election of the association's officers for
Ihe ensuing year wl'l follow.
A banquet will be given to tlie visit
ing librarians in the evening by Hie
trustees of tlie Atlieneiini. A large school
library exhibit lias been procured from
the Pnltid States department of edu
cation. A large attendance from all
parts was present at tin opening ses
sion. HOLLISTER-OATMAN
CASE IS SETTLED
lto Itcccbc
i:ces of Offer for Loss
nf i:-lgh!.
Pennington,
annoiineeil a
Ort. IS Attorneys to-day
settlement In the case ofi
Walter Hollister tu. Clmiles P. Oatninn,
both of Pennington, In which the plain
tiff, aged 10, brouiibt suit for damages
for the loss of both eyes. The boy,
while pilfering grapes from the defend
ant's garden rally in September, litis, was
shot in tlie luce Willi a cittirge of peas.
,U the last December tcitn of county
court the plaintiff secured a verdict of
ti and costr. An appeal was taken to
the supreme court and was si t for hear
ing at the November tetm The tonus
of the settlement aro uoi maun puiuie,
but attorneys for the planum state thut
they were In excess of an offer mndo
before the trial, which was for $.1,M)0.
STRATTON PRESIDENT.
Vermont Mutual Fire liisiirniiee Co,
I licet KlrertorN and OfTlccri..
Montpeller, Oct. IX.--Directors and
nlllcers were elected this afternonu at
tho annual meeting of the Vermont
Mutual Fire Insurance company held
In tho homo offices. The policyholders
idocted the following directors. Geoige
O Stratton. Ui'sTh Phillips. James T
Snbln, Lucius D- Toft. George lltiggs,
Ficd L. Laird. John 12. Weeks, Jelfer
siin R. Juilson. Klnmro T. Idc, David
Marvin, George S. Robinson. Fred 11
Kelley, Herman W. Marvin, Thom.is c.
Cheney, John H- I'llbols, Joseph N.
Webster, Henry N- Clark, Addison 12.
Cinlwortli, William W. Stickney
Tho directors dieted the following
officers George 1). S'nttnn. president,
Hugh Plilllll,s. v!co.presldent Janies
T Sabln, secretury, llermou D. Hop.
SOUTHERN STATES
ROOKED Bf QUAKE
Terrific Tropical Hurricane Flays
the Gulf Coast at Same
Time.
MOST DAMAGE BY WIND.
svvernl Vessels Sunk In Potisncnln
Ilnrlior Gale Attains Die (irent
Velocity of 1 14 lilies mi llniu.
Atlanta, On., Oct. IS. The South was
rocked by earthquake ami swept by storm
at the same time to-day. While a tropi
cal hurricane was flaying the gulf coast.
earth tiemots overtuund chimneys audi
frightened many people from their homes
in fieorgla, Alabama and Tennestee.
The earthquake did little damage, but
a wind that reached a velocity of 114
tulles an hour lifted roofs from houses
at Pensacola, 1'la., anil sunk a number
of vessels In the harbor. One life was
lost.
Mobile reported that It hud been touched
more lightly, although the wind blew 110
inllc. an hour. Two small buildings were i
destroyed and a negro woman was killed
by a llvo wire.
Pensacola, Pin., Oct. lS.-SeVeial ves
sels 111 .bo harbor were sunk, nimiero.-'i
small craft suffered damage, and one lite
was lost in the tenlile tropical hurrlciiie
that swept through here to-day. At one
time the wind touched a velocity of 1!!
miles an hour. Property damage In Pen
sacola Itself was confined chiefly to roofs
blown off and plate glass windows do
stro ed.
Plrmlngbam, Ala.. Oct. is. The Plr
mliigliam district felt a severe earthqtu.l.c
at four o'clock to-day. Many clilinne t
were knocked down. Ofllce buildings we'o
rocked and thousands ponied from then'
doors after the shock.
lxittisvllle, Oct. IS. A slight eartbqtii-e
shock was felt over a wide area In Louis
ville at l:5 o'clot-k to-day. Police ieprl
ed that tall buildings noticeably wcr,;
rocked downtown while In the outlying
districts pictures swayed and chinawiire
rattled
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEBURY.
Twenty-two automobiles carrying a
party coinpiislng farmer-, from diffeien'
towns In Addison county left Middle
bury Monday morning fi r the national
dairymen's exhibition at Springfield.
Mass. The griater number of cars got
off ut about six o'clock, but there were
some sltag,:l-rs going along until about
seven o'clock. Joseph I'. Carrlijan of
Mlddlebury, Addion county agricultural
agent, went along In charge c.l the
party, v.hkii included seeiel ladies.
They went liy way of Rutland, lrom
there to Hrattb boio, and then ovir what
is known as "Tlie Old Mohuwk Trail."
They expect to be gone until Friday
or Saturday President and Mrs. John
M. Thomas have r turned from a several
days' tour in the White mountain region
after having attendid the inauguration
of Dr. 12. M Hopkins, the new president
of Dartmouth -Mrs Julia Slason, who
ban been lu re on a v slt to her mother,
Mrs. M. A. Hrown, ,nis n tutned homo
to Suilbiity Mr. and Mrs. Hruno Albert
have returned Hom Iiurllngtoii and Wi
nooski. Mrs, Alfred A. Panton and chil
dren of VerKcnncs ato bete visiting at
the home of Albert Hendricks and fam
ily. Prof. J. Lamere, principal of the
A Vest Rutland high school, has returned
afti r spending several days In town.
Frank M. liennott, who has spent a few
months In town, has gone to Uoston,
where be lias a position on a large
I plumbing Job. Clayton Hanks of the
firm of Hunks ft Clulson is confined to
his Iuiih on South street by illness
I Woman's Auxiliary of the Y M. C A.
met in their rooms in tlie liattell block
Monday afternoon anilj plans were made
for the coming fall and winter. Mrs.
Harrow of Weybrldge Is muklng exten
sive repairs on her residence. Mrs. Kllza
beth Hathaway, who has been visiting
at the home of her son, Prof. L. J. Hath
uwoy, for seveiul weeks, bus returned
to her homo In Concord, N. H. Mr. and
Mrs. Chillies Grandy are visiting at tho
home of their son. Trumun Grundy, in
Hrldport, Mr. and Mrs. George T. Cham
pagne have gono to New York city, where
they will spend a week, Charles F. Rich
returned Sunday morning after a week's
business and pleasure trip to Uoston,
Worcester and Webster, Mass., and New
York city. Henry Walker, who was with
hint, also returned nt tlie same time.
- "r' "," """" " . , . ,
... 11'OI... T I i... , .a.. 1.
I gone to Jiusiotl Mo it .own... .. .inn ,iui
'Mrs. Hamilton's son, AVarreti Holdldge,
I who Is occupying a ti sponsible position
in that clty.--Mr. and Mrs Arnold At
I wood have returned from South Sturks-
boro, where they went to visit Mr. At
I wood's brother, Knstman Atwood. Mrs.
, Penjamlu Wliumett and daughter, Miss
! Agnes of Florence, havo returned after
'a week's visit here with relatives.
The funeral of Mrs. l-IIIzanoin Saveiy,
who died nt her homo on Seminary street
Satin day. was held at tho Mothod'-U
Church Tuesday afternoon atjwo o'clock,
with a large attendance. Dr. D. H. Cork
ran, pastor of the church, ofllclated ami
the interment was In the Foote street
cemetery. There were many beautiful
llouers. The beat'ois were Col, Charloi 11.
Yotttt, Willis N, Cody, Homer Rain, Met
vln Damon, W. 1-2. Clement and Charles
Cady.-Mr. and Mis W. W Foul
have letuined from a two weeks' visit In
Laconln. N II, and Uoston. Louis Pe1
leek, who has been for two weeks nt the
Plattt-bnrgh hospital, sufioilng from ty
phoid fever, Is reported to be much better
and It Is thought that ho will soon be ahle
to leturn home. Iirunn Albert went Tues
day to Urnndon, wlmro ho will bo employ,
ed on tho structure of tho new grade 1
schonl building for the rest of the fall -Fled
Ilrown has taken possession of the
Panford house on Court street which he
reientlv purchased. Mr. and Um. Arttnw
Kenwoithy have moved u easnoS
to the Ifond tenement house on Semlnurv
street Them will be a meeting of
the dliectors of tho Addison County Fisn
and Game League Saturday evening ut
seven o'clock at the Addison llottso for
tho purpose of arranging for the annual
luvutluj; unci biuiuuul Ui iuvumbu-'l'Uo
PADDAM7A CCIM
4P
uni n iLn uliw
E AS
Tells Joint Commission of "New
and Vigorous Campaign"
against Villa.
AMERICANS HOPEFUL.
lint Insist That Any Hnrdrr Acrccmen
.tins! He llnseil on Proof That Mex
ico Cnn (.iiterii Itself.
Atlantic City, X. J.. Oct. IS. Supple
mental assurances from Cicncrnl Canan7.it
that be is beginning a new and vigorous
campaign against Villa were received to
day by his lepresentatives on the
Mexknn-Aineilcnn Joint commission. The
head of tlie de facto Mexican xovcrtimum
asserted all available troops would bo
used in tlie pursuit of the bandit.
Tlie American commissioners reviewed
at the Joint session a carefully prepared
statement of the Mexican claims as to
conditions as well as proposals for restora
unn and maintenance of peace along tho
frontier. This statement also Includes
arguments designed to show why the
American troops should bo wlthdiawn
from Chihuahua.
The Mixlcans Insist that Ihey are
rapable of driving Villa and other out
laws awny ftom the border, but the
1 Americans' attitude is that they must
demonstrate ability to do more than that.
! The Americans insist that any agree
ment affecting tlie control of the border
j must ho based on a reasonable Indication
1 that the Mexican authorities are capable
, of maintaining effective government In
the Interior.
The willingness of the Americans not
to urge compliance with their suggcstioin
at this time is due to
hope that Gen-
( ral Carranza may be able to direct a suc
cessful warfare against Villa.
It was learned to-day that the troops
sent northward yesterday are not intend
ed for the campaign against Villa, hut lo
relieve troops at Aguas Calientes and
Zncalecas. win. In turn would be sent
I north to Torreon to rellero others that
would bo sent Into the hills 111 search of
I Villa
Women's Auxiliary to tlie Y. M. C. .
eld their llrst monthly meeting In tlie
r M. C. A. rooms In the liattell block
Monday afternoon. Tho meeting was
ipened hy Vice-President Mis. F. C. Dyer.
After tho husiiiesr meeting Ernest L.
Hand, tceretary, gave a talk on the plana
"or the coming yonr. The meeting then
adjourned to meet again November Li -Mrs.
Joseph W. Luwience, accompanied
by her aunt. Miss Helen Sullivan, lias
gone to Uoston to spntid the winter. -Ml
Phelos Nash, who li.is been vislPng at tle
home of Prof. p. N. Swee., a few week;-.,
has tetiiriied lo Cambridge, Mass. Mis.
Julia Slason lias returned to Sudbury
after two weeks here with her mother,
.Mrs. W. A. Htown.-John E. Ridley of
I Cambridge, Mars., Frank W. I2asttn.ni of
t'oneoid, N. H., and Henry Wlekoff it
Springfield are visiting In town. M.WiC
Turner has returned from Chatlotte, wliur.j
lie has been on a week's busl.Ness trip.
Tlie first regular meeting of tlie Cent,iv
club was held Tuesday evening at the
home of Mrs. Huntley on South Main
street. Tliete was a good uttendanei.
Mr. and Mrs. llenrv Walker and dauph
ters, Ruth and Faith, have gono to Ptvc
; (or, where thev will make their home,
i They will iiin a hotel. Their younger
, daughter. Dorothy, will remain here for a
I while. The Laiabee society ot the Con
Igregatlonal Church held a well attended
meeting nt tlie home of Mrs. Ezra Uiain
aril Tuesday afternoon. Quite a deleg.i
I tlou of tlie members of Lake Dimm-'ie
Lodge, No. 11, I. O. O. F , will go to lirls
ml Thursday afternoon lo attend the an
mini llst i let meeting of the order held
there that evening. The trip will be mnne
by automobile Mrs. Leon J. caw and
children ate moving into tlie Henry Walk
er bouse in Vn bridge street.
Charles 11. LaMorder, a long-time and
much respected losldcnt of this village,
died at his home on North Pleasant stioet
Tuesday evening at the age of til years.
Mr. IyaMorder had been in 111 health for
some tlmo front the effects of a shoes;
two years ago. He i.i survived by fott,
daughters, .Mis. Charles Miller of Ver
gennes, Mrs. Frank Munford, with whom
he lived, Mrs Frank Slay of P.iirlittKton,
and Miss Kailierine La.Motder of this
village. He was a member of Lake Dun
moro Lodge, No. 11, I, O. O, P., of this
village and Its several branches and was
a member of high standing, having passed
through all the chairs In same, and also
held the ofllce of district deputy of the en
campment branch. Tho funeral will lie
held at Ills home Friday afternoon at two
o'clock. Lake Dunnioie IJdgo, No. 11, t.
O. O. F., will attend In a body and pet
form their sen Ices at the house. The Rev.
Roy 12. Whittlmoie of tho Memorial I!t,
tist Church of this Ullage will olllcla'e
,md burl.il will be In tho family lot In tno
Salisbury comet ry. Arrowanna Rebexan
Lodge, No. 15, I. O. O. F., held an enjoy
able meeting at their lodge rooms in the
Dcr block Tuesday ovenlng and at the
oloso sat down to a banquet In honor of
Mr. and Mis. ltlngham who have ruceiu
ly returned from their wedding trip. Mrs
1-2. R. Yates presented them with a clooi;
and a box of linen from tho lodge. At the
banquet there woro prosent Mr. and M.-j
Mitchell of Lynn. .Mass., and Mr. and Mrc
Howard of Milton, all members of tho
organization. Mr. and Mrs. Harry 'C.
Yotttt and children, who havo been visit
ing at tho homo of his father, Col, Charles
1-2. Youtt, for a few weeks, have returned
to Now York city. Tho Ladles' Mission
ary society of tlie Congregational enure i
held an all day sowing meeting In tile
vestry of the church Wednesday. The
rummage sale of tho Women's Aid .so.
clcty of St. Stephen's Episcopal Churcli
wus held in tho old Ilttncdlct store Wed
nesday, The Essay club hold a well at
tended meotlng nt tho homo of .Mrs. Wil
liam McGllton Wednesday aftornoon. Mr.
und Mrs, Charles Mlllorof Vergennes, Mr
and Mis, Prank Stay of llurllngton nm In
town, called here by the Illness and death
of their fullier, Charles I.aMorder.-l'nln i
Lodvx Wo, 2. F. jie. A M held a speclul
r-ti2 IB Utsfr hrffio rooms In the M i
honlc T.Ts9 TOBfltiosday evonlug. Tho
Master Mason rtoirreo was conferied. T'.a
Young People's socloty of tho Monio-lal
Iiaptlst Church held a wall attended so-
(Cmitluueil nil on ;;-e mu.)
MOR
SURANGES
-fCTIO DITTm
JNLLId DM B C II
AGAINST ALLIES
Athenians Draw Up an Appeal
Directed to American Gov
ernment. CLASHES IN ATHENS.
CoiisliiiiUiir Henlen Thai llli f oniMry
ConlemplatrM Attack on the Purees
of the F.ntcntc.
London, Oct. IS. Greece still remains a
center of interest as the result of the
landing of entento allied marines at Pi
raeus and Athens. Fresh demonstrations
of bitterness by the Greek popu'ifo
against the marines have been shown nnd
tho situation still icmains tense. An ap
peal drawn up at a meeting of Greeks a.
Alliens has been handed to the Atncrlcin
minister for transmission to Washington
It asks the American people "to avert tho
subjugation of those who desire only u
remain free."
An Athens despatch says:
"A Fiench marine patrol last evonlfii;
arrested at the point of the bayonet
seven youths who wero hooting tho en
tente pnwots. A lingo crowd gathered lot
the put pose of rescuing them. The OretiC
military commander in Athens called out
ttoops who charged and dispersed th
crowd. Greek patrols wete lmmedl.ucl.
placed In various districts to control any
attempts at anti-entente manifestation?.'
"Tlie I-'tench admiral In command In
formed the premier (hat he would call
at the ministry in the morning, although
It Is thought possible that as a res lit of
the Ilntish minister's audience with King
Constantino tho French troops may be
wlthdiawn on a pledge that the Greeks
maintain order.
"It Is known that the King has given
command that anti-entente demonstra
tions must cease, as the very existence
of Greece Is at stake. It Is difficult to
say, however, whether, In the oresent
state of public opinion over tho presence
of marines of the foreign powers at
Athens and Piraeus, even the King's
orders will be obeyed by tho excited
populace."
A Iteuter despatch from Athens read-
"The Iirltish minister to Greece had a
long Interview with King Constantlne this
evening and it Is understood His Majesty
Insisted on the groundlessness of the sus
picion that Gieece contemplated an at
tack on the forces of Geneial Sarrall
As proof of his good faith the King Is
said to have declared his readiness to
withdraw the Gieek forces from Larlssa."
PROGRESS OF WAR.
Apparently the Roumanians have been
successful, for the time being at least.
In stopping tho advance of the Teutonic
allies all along their bonier. At no point
along tlio line is the claim made by
either lierlln or Vienna of fresh suc-
! cesses against the Roumanians, whlls on
the other hand, the Uticharest war olllce
! asserts that the troops of King Ferdinand
at various dnts have rcpulmd tin at-
j tacks of tli' Ti utonlc ulllcs, indicting
heavy losses on them and capturing
nttmners ot tneir oiitcers anil mil..
Violent fighting Is still in pr-M-css in
Gallcia, where on tlie Narayuvka fie-n'
tho liavarlnns have stormed a Russian
position and captured &0 men and V2 ma
chine guns. Herlln asserts that t the
west of Lutsk In Volhynia, following the
repulse of the Russians, the troops of
Emperor Nicholas have not returned to
tho fray and are merely bombarding tlie
Teutonic position?. The repulse of Aus-tro-German
attacks in the Carpathians,
where snow is now falling, is recorded
by Petrograil.
Roth north mid south of the Sommc the
French troops have made fresh gains
The village of Sailly-Sallisel is now en
tirely in their hands and the Germans
havo been driven from the hills north
west and northeast. Over a front of a
mile south of the river, between La
Maisonnette and Rlaches, the Germon
llrst linn defences have been driven back
by the French.
To the east of Thiepvnl gains by the
Iirltish north of Gueudecourt and in the
region of Huttn De. Warlencourt aro
I e corded by the London war ofllce.
Patrol encounters and bombardments
feature the fighting In Macedonia.
In the Austro-Itulliin theatre the Ital
ians are another step forward In their
advance In Trentlno, huvlng broken the
Austrian line between Cosmugnon nnd
Rolte and also taken a commanding posi
tion on Mount Pasublo.
NEW YORK GERMANS
FLOCK TO HUGHES
What Poll of Three Snrlrtlm In New
York City Shimi,
New York, Oct IS. A poll of threo leu'.
Ing German societies ot New York, s. -i
tho World, Indicates that moro than SS per
cent, of the members who lespondel "i
the questions put, who voted for Woodrj.v
Wilson in 1912, will vote this year to.'
Charles E. Hughes, and thut while the
combined republican ami progressive vote
four eats ago was only slightly moro tl.a '
II per cent, of the membership of thrre
organizations, the vote for Mr Hughes
this year probably will be more than M pe,1
cent, of the total membership.
Tho three societies whoso mrmbershln
were asked to tell how they voted In I'1"
and bow they expect to vote this year a'o
the Arion society, tlie Deutscher Lleder
kranz and the New York Deutscher Vor
eln. These organizations have headquar
ters In this city, but tho members aro
scattered throughout tho counlrv, anl
efforts wero made to reach all of them,
More than l.fW requests for Information
were sent out and more than 3M repms
were received, of which number 31.' we
tabulated. They show conclusively- that,
for ono cause or another, the members
nre against President Wilson
'LEOPARD PROSPERITY,"
DECLARES FAIRBANKS
Cleveland, Ohio, Oct IS. "Tho prosper
ity of tho Pnlted Stutcs Is leopard pros
perity, It Is spotted," said Charles War
ren Fairbanks, vice-presidential non"
nca of the Republican party, here to-day
He attacked the democratic administra
tion as unstable anil denied Its abll'ty
to deal with the tremendous econom'c
situation which will bo created nt tin
close of the war, when ."0,000,000 foreign
peoples go back to work of construction
"Tho grout cry of the democrats nt tie
Unltlmoro convention was to lower t'
high cost of living. Hut they aro in it
tau'lui; much about that now," he said
