tm
fig*~
1
12 PAGES
2Ew
ESTABLISHED 19
a
fTOOTItDOCTOL, HERE
,fe?
SNtkwestern Iowa Dental Associa
tlM Held Anaial CoRveitlon at
v, LtoaTietday and Wednesday. ..
The annual meeting of the South
western Iowa Dental Association was
held in Leon Tuesday and Wednes
day, and it was one of the best meet
lngs ever held by this association.
The first session was held at the
K. of P. hall on Tuesday afternoon,
being devoted to a school of instruc
tion conducted by ur. R. H. Volland,
of the Dental School of the State Uni
verslty at Iowa City, and many new
things in Cental work were shown,
the visiting dentists being greatly
"interested in this work which was
highly instructive.
Tuesday evening the dentists and
their wives attended a banquet serv
ed at the New Hotel Leon, landlord
Bowsher exerting himself to make it
a success and his effQrts were crowd
ed with success, the visitors stating
it was oi}e of the finest banquets they
had ever attended. The banquet was
entirely informal no toasts being as
signed, but a number of impromptu
talks were made and the "evening
spent socially.
Wednesday morning was devoted
to table clinics, the session being
held at the K. of P.. hall, and was one
of great benefit to the dentists in at
tendance.
At the anitual election of officers
held Tuesday evening the following
were elected for the coming year:
President—Dr. L. W. Lewis, Shen
andoah.
Vice President—Dr. R. C. Logan,
Elliott.
Secretary—Dr. D. R. Dudley, Mt.
Ayr.
Member State Executive Commit
tee—Dr. J/V. Rowell, Leon.
The following dentists were in at
tendance
Creston—Dr. L. E. Stiles and wife,
Dr. M. F. Steever, Dr. F. M. Davis,
Dr. L. D. Rivenburg.
Shenandoah—Dr. L. W. Lewis, Dr.
J. W. Van Buskirk, Dr. E. R. Stealy.
Iowa City—Dr. R. H. Volland.
Lamoni—Dr. W. J. Mather, Dr. J.
S. Sheehan.
Villisca—Dr. F. M. Kelsey.
Elliott—Dr. R. C. Logan.
Mt. Ayr—Dr. D. R. Dudley and
wife. Dr. C. C. Lawhead.
Clearfield—Dr. C. J. Swan.
Kellerton—Dr. J. M. Haveley and
wife.
Osceola—Dr. E. VV. Paul.
Lineville—Dr. H. S. Engle.
Garden Grove—Dr. V. R. Whin
nery.
Leon—Dr.JUfl, Rowell, Dr. W. R.
West. ......
Representatives from wholesale
dental supply houseg from Omaha,
Des Moines and Keokuk were present
with a fine display of supplies.
The local dentists, Dr. J. W. Row
ell and Dr. W. R. West were in
charge of the local arrangements
and were highly complimented by
the visitors, as they left nothing un
done to show them a good., time
while they were in Leon.
H. B. BRACEWELL
Democratic Candidate for Congress
Mr. H. B. Bracewell, of Corydon,
tne democratic candidate for con
jj(i gress in this district, spent several
days in Decatur county last week and
a
1
made the acquaintance of a large
number of voters. He held meetings
I At Lamoni and Decatur City and his
speeches at both places, were well re
J. received by attentive hearers. It will
|%y be impossible for Mr. Bracewell to
see but a small part of the voters in
the district before election, and we
jfVs want to urge upon our readers 'the
'^importance of electing him to con
.-.41 gress. If President Wilson is re-elect
ed,' as he will be, it is of vital im
jportance that he have the support of
democratic congress in order to
carry on his program of reform and
secure the passage of new laws in
the interest of taxpayers.
Mr. Bracewell is a splendid speak
,er, a good lawyer, and one of the best
posted men on national issues in the
state. He would make an 'ideal con
gressman, and would go to Wash
}ington umhampered by dictations
from the special interests. No man
-stands higher in the estimation of
the people of his home county than
JMr. Bracewell, for they recognize in
.him a man who would never cast a
vote for any measure which was
against the best interests of his,con
stituents. Do your part in sustain
ing President Wilson by sending a
democrat to congress from the
fiigkth District, and vote for H. B.
S Bracewell for congressman
Leon Barings "iiMMt is prepar-
•d to make some good farm loans at
,, reaaonable rates.
*"h
i"4^
TTlfc1
r?
.- 'i«sp
apw5^^.V'*5f^?
lV Ji* V-V^'s^S^
Official Action of Presbyterian Church
Concerning New Building.
The members of the First Presby
terian charch of Leon met at the
Baptist chlurch on Tuesday evening,
to consider'the plans and specifica
tions for their new church bunaing
to replace the old.church which has
been torn down. It was deciaed that
the new church will be built of brick,
strictly colonial in style, the dimen
sions being 54x72 feet, with straight
entrance facing the north. The in
terior of the church will be of the
most modern arrangement, and to
help provide for the social interests
of the young people of Leon, a gym
nasium, shower baths, and other con
veniences will be in&talled.
The church arranged further that
the building and finance committees
begin and execute the work of the
building of this church at such time
as they think best. The sense of the
meeting, however, was to complete
the basement before cold weather.
The arrangement of the basement
was left to the Ladies' Aid Society to
work out to their own convenience.
The following committees were ap
pointed:
Finance—Thomas Teale, S. A.
'Gates, Francis Varga, Ed Smith, or.
F. A. Bowihan, G. B. Price, Geo. T.
Qgilvie, W. E. Ammon, John Frazier,
V. R. McGinnis, John S. Parrish, Da
vid Ironside and Gurley George, with
tfle pastor ex-officio.
Building—Thomas Teale, or. H. R.
Layton, F. S. Stewart, Stephen Var
ga and T. W. Colby.
Floyd Brown Awarded Silver Cup.
When the base ball season opened
last spring C. A. Cherrington, the
druggist donated a beautiful silver
cup which was to be awhrded the
member of the Leon base ball club
who secured tne highest batting av
erage during the season. For sever
al months George Moyes, who pitch
ed for Leon, led the batting average,
but was finally passed by Floyd
Brown, and when the averages were
figured up at the close of -the season
Floyd Brown stood at the top with
an average batting record of .396,
and was this week presented with the
silver cup by Mr. Cherrington. The
following -is the batting average of
the players who competed for the
cup
Floyd Brown 396
George Atoxes 386
Leslie Grimes 338
Burley Russell 329
Cy Mayes 31*
Ralph Pickering ... 283
L. Wogan 281
Stanley .242
Fred Peck .•.. ..147
Charles Powers, of Kellerton, was
found lying dead on the railroad
track near Togo station last Thurs
day evening. Mr. Powers was a
county road foreman for Ringgold
county and was working with a
gang of men near Lamoni. Thursday
evening he started to walk down the
track to Togo to telephone for some
supplies, and a short time later wa$
found dead by parties who came
along the track. Mr. Powers was
about 55 years of age, and had been
a sufferer from heart trouble for
some time, being under the care of
a physician at the time. Coroner Lay
ton was notified, but after learning
the facts, Mr. Powers having died
from heart disease, decided that an
inquest was not necessary. The de
ceased had resided at Kellerton for
a humber of years and was highly re
spected.
Speaking Dates for F. A. Garber.
Frank A. Garber, democratic can
didate for representative, will speak
at the following places. Come out
and hear what Mr. Garber has to say.
He will tell you what you can expect
from him if he is elected 10 represent
you in the next legislature:
High Point, Tuesday evening, Oct.
S4th.
Woodland, Friday evening, Oct.
27 th.
Decatur City, Saturday evening,
Oct. 28th.
Baker school house in Blooming
ton township, Tuesday evening, Oct.
31st.
Grand River, Thursday evening,
November 2nd.
Capt. J. D. Brown Operated Upon.
Capt. J. D. Brown, who has been
seriously ill at his home in this city
for several weeks, underwent a criti
cal operation which was performed
last Thursday morning by Dr. B. L.
Eiker, assisted by Drs. H. R. Lay
ton and J. W. Robinson. The opera
tion was a successful one and he has
been getting along extra fine since,
and hopes are now entertained 'that
he will recover, which will be good
news to his many friends all over
southern Iowa.
Young People Married at Omaha.
From the Omaha Daily News, of
Oct. 10th, we learn that a marriage
license was issued in that city that
day to Clifford S. Woodard, of Deca
tur City, and Miss Madge McMorris,
of south of Leon, two well known
young people 61 this county. The
inews of their marriage came as a
surprise to their friends, and upon
their return they will' receive the
usual congratulations, for both are
very popular among a large circle of
friends.
Death of Airs. Lew Thompson.
Mrs. Lew Thompson, of Davis City,
who had been seriously ill' for sever
al weeks, suffering from cancer, pass
ed away at her home Sunday even
ing, and was buried at Davis City
Tuesday afternoon. Mrs. Thompson
was a sister of G. W. Spicer, of Leon.
Qf* f'V*
.f* s/rfit
LEON, IOWA, THURSDAY, .OCTOBER 19, 1916.
NEW MASONIC HALL
Work Commenced oa Fine New Lodge
Room for Grand River lodge
No. 79, .4. F. & A. M.
For a number of years there has
been talk of a new Masonic hall in
L.eon, and at last the dream is to
come true. Material is being placed
on the ground and work "Will com
mence at once. Grand River Lodge
No. 78, A. F. & A. M. h$s bought
the right to build over the new Mul
linnix block at the corner of Main
and Commercial streets. The second
story will be 40x80 feet, containing
an auditorium 30x46 feet,1 with 16
foot ceiling, reception room 15x38,
ante room 10x19, Tyler's room 10x10
and a hallway 5x38 feet. On the third
floor will be a dining roonrand kitch
en and tlie dining room will be 31x38
feet, which will provide a fine place
for lodge banquets, something which
has been sorely needed.
The new building will cost between
$6,500 and $7,000, and will not be
ouilt by contract, the building com
mittee of the lodge having employed
F. C. Mullinnix to superintend the
erection of the building. Several car
load of brick and the big steel joists
have already been received, and work
of laying brick will commence at
once, it being hoped tlfe building can
be completed before cold weather.
While the new lodge room is being
built by the Blue Lodge,, it is ex
pected inat the other Masonic bodies,
the Chapter and Knights Templar
will arrange to occupy it jointly wltfe
the Blue Lodge.
The new lodge building ill be
credit to Leon, and will add grea:
to the appearance of south Mai
street, being located just across the
street from the New Hotel Leon
building.
Good Show at Osceola Friday Night.
Kate Douglas Wiggin, whose de
lightful heroine of her books "Rebec
ca of Sunnybroolc Farm" and "New
Chronicles of Rebecca," which have
been fused into the New England
comedy "Rebecca of Sunnybrook
Farm," which will be staged at the
opera house at Osceola, Friday night,
Oct-: 20th, claims there is only one
bit of autobiography in the book or
play. It was an incident of Mrs.
Wiggin's school days when she was
Kate Douglas Smith and lived with
her parents near Hollis, Maine, her
childhood, home. It was in a little
district school house and the happen-*
ing had escaped .Mrs. Wiggin's mem
ory until years afterward she met
the teacher who asked her if she re-
Stands High in Church Membership.
The^-1915 Iowa census gives the
church membership for each county,
and it will' be news to many of our
readers to learn that Decatur county
stands second in the ninety-nine
counties with the greatest percentage
of Protestant church membership ac
cordihg to the population. Decatur
county has 43 per qpnt of population
who are church members and only
one county in the- state has a higher
percentage, that being Bremer, which
has a percentage of 45. Ringgold
county has a percentage of 37, Union
29, Clarke 31, Lucas 24 and \Vayne
34. The churches of Decatur county*
have a membership of which they
mey well be proud. The two counties
which have the smallest percentage
of church members i^re Dubuque and
Scott, each of which has only 11 per
cent. Decatur and Bremer are the
only two bounties in the state having
a percentage above 40.
A Narrow Escape.
Mrs. H. J. Close, of Kansas City,
who was visiting in Leon last week,
had a very narrow escape from ser
ious injury at the northwest corner
of the square last Friday afternoon.
She was crossing the street when an
auto driven by two children made the
I
NO
called the day when she had beeiuLeon team twenty pounds to the
a1 it-4a Anwhi'eflBf At4l?A- vt*Hin Tkla affftrAffftiinil flllll. tllA 8UD*
told to coirju'gate'tffe verb "to know
She got along very well until she
came to the subjunctive mood, when
her lips began to quiver and tears
welled up in her eyes, and when she
reached the words "if they had
known," she broke down completely
and ended with the sobbing exclama
tion, "oh, it's such a sad, sad verb I
can't bear to say it." Her imagina
tion had overcome her sense of the
present aird her heart was filled with
the idea that "life would have been
kinder to them, whoever they were,
if they had only known." It is such
bits of life as this that make Mrs.
Wiggin's play delight and a lesson
to people who have the privilege and
pleasure of seeing it.
sharp turn and Mrs. Close was struck ....
by the fender of the machine. Seeing
Had a Finger Broken.
1
tw -nr '"•"•Jpnsj^ *TY
., _.
»'.
"Stunt lest" Pleased.
The "Stunt Fest" presented at, the
opera house last Thursday evening
under the direction of Mrs. Gretchen
Myers Coen, of Creston, for the bene
fit
of.
the Associated Charities of
Leon, was greeted with a full house.
Over fifty persons took part in the
cast, the program consisting of mu
sical numbers, drillB, tableaux, min
strel acts, etc., and they were all
good. Owing to the large number in
the cast it is impossible to mention
each act. Mrs. Coen is a splendid di
rector and to her efforts was due the
success of the performance. In order
to decide which three acts were con
sidered the best by the audience,
slips of paper were distributed and
each one was requested" to write
their choice of tla'ee.acts, and it was
announced that the three acts select
ed would be presented at the matinee
at the Idle Hour on Friday afternoon.
The three selected were the mono
logue, "Soap," by little Bill Aiken,
the.jninstrel act by Ancel Barry, Les
ter Hutchinson, Lloyd Smith and Les
lie Grimes, and the wooden shoe
dancing by Miss Cecil Grimes, and a
chorus of girls, Misses Alma Kind
blade, Maurine Penniwell, Barbara
Penniwell, Ruth Shields, Marraret
Shields and Mildred Merwin.
The farce act presented by Charles
Horn and Miss Nancie Kemp, and the
quintette by Mrs." J. A. Caster, Mrs.
Gretchen Myers Coen, Dr. J. O.
Woodmansee, Lester Hutchinson and
Lloyd Smith, were close seconds,
both being extra good. In fact the
program throughout was a good one,
and every act was heartily applauded
jmd well received by the big
aud-|having
nee. Little Bill Aiken, however,
'as the star of the evening, and just
so.
The Associated Charities received
ut ?40 as their share of the en
tertainment, after dividing with Mrs.
Coen and paying all expenses, and
the money will be spent for charit
able work.
Allerton 7—Leon 7-
The Leon High School boys played
the second game of the schedule at
Ajllerton last Saturday. Leon scor-|
eci a touch down and kicked goal in
the first quarter of play. The. score
stood 7 to 0 until the last' quarter.
With the ball in aeon's -possession
on Allerton's ten yard line the Leon
center passed the ball far over Scott's
head and across the goal line. Scott
picked up the ball, fumbled it, and
Allerton fell on it for a touch down.
They kicked goal and on account of
the fluke the game ended in a tie,
7 to 7.
The Allerton team was composed
jff nine veterans and outweighed'the
man. This aggregation and the sup
porting cast presented a rather ag
gressive front for a bunch of kids,
eight of whom were new to the game
this year. Allerton had spring prac
tice and had announced in the state
papers their expectation of becoming
champions of southern Iowa.
On Friday of this week Leon High
plays Lineviiie on the local grounds.
This aggregation is coached by Men
denhall, a former star of Iowa Uni­|
versity. They have been winning
from some of the strongest Missouri
schools and will give Leon a hard
battle.
llexall One Cent Sale Biggest Vet.
The three days one cent sale at
the Rexall drug store of Bell & Paint
er last Thursday, Friday and Satur
day, was the biggest sale they have
ever had, the business exceeding their
expectations and on a number of ar
ticles the entire stock was sold out
before the sale closed. They sold
over fifteen hundred pounds of coffee,
six thousand envelopes, 212 tubes of
tooth paste, and Other advertised ar
ticles in proportion. These one cent
sales are put on twice a year, the
manufacturers standing a part of the
loss of selling the second article for
one cent, and the people have found
out that they are able to secure real
bargains at these sales'^ Bell &
Painter are sure hustlers, and they
were a happy but mighty tired bunch
when the sale closed Saturday night.
Special Manual Training Meeting for
Itural Teacliers.
There will be a special manual
training meeting for rural t'-achers
held at Decatur on Saturday, Oct.
21. This is held under the direction
of the State College at Ames, and is
the first of seven such meetings to
be held at Decatur'during the year.
All rural teachers who can reach De
catur are urged to attend. There is
no cnarge for instruction except cost
of the materials used. Such work is
planned as can be used at once in
rural schools. Prof: C. B. Woodstock
of
she could not get away, she clung to sessions, 9 to 12 a. m., 1 to 3 p. m.
the fender until the machine was
Btopped, and she escaped with slight
bruises. Some of the auto drivers
are still pretty reckless about turn
ing corners, and then"it is unlawful
in Iowa, for any child under fifteen
years of age to drive an auto on a Harley Dawson, Creston ...
street or highway, even if they are Ethel Umphress, Leon 18
accompanied by their parents or oth- Geo. E. Oder, Gainesville, Mo 3i
er person. [Maude Willis,vCainesville, Mo.
I
right hand'was caught' under the 'JI® paper, in town
heavy instrument between a bolt
at
Lamoni, will have charge Two
Marriage Licenses.
Everett West, Grand River
Pearle West, Van Wert ..
Otto Yaughn, Humeston ..
Shirley Hart, Humeston ..
Ora Carrico, DaviB City
Mabel Bartlett, Garden Grove.
Marion Beckwith, one of the elec-!John Kaestner, Lamoni 28
tricians in th« employ of the Leon Gertrude Johnson, Lamoni 20
Electric Co., met with*a painful ac-jWm. E. Fulton, Stewartstown,
cident while assisting in moving a! Fenna -26
heavy rheostat at the power house Clella K. McClaran, Davis City. .20
last Thursday. In some manner his
Rexa"
I
je s*
UP-
2 2
.20
.24
.18
.22
*•25
.21
il-ii
«ore.
from work for some time., The Leon I Money to loan on some goodKfarms.
Electric Co. carry workingmen's com-! Leon Savings Bank.
pensatjon insurance on all their em-1
ployes snd Mr. Beckulth will receive Two weeks from next, Tuesday is
pay- wlitle lie is off duty. election day.
""fs- B'ddf" °r.'» Co.
'«-•«.
r$ yq!T:i-."rr*.
^v
TWENTVflVE YEARS AfiO
Items Taken from the Files of The
Reporter Published a Quarter
of a Century Ago'.
iElk Point, S. D., where he has secur
ed a good position in the Elk Point
reader office.
Mrs. Dr. H. R. Layton and Miss
[Abbie Fraser attended the national
convention of the P. E. O. society at
Fairfield last week, as
from the Leon Chapter.
rr^
N'lfi^jw. *gg? .r „ywr-
The new wagon^ bridge over Grand pleased a big audience. From now on.
River at Davis City, was completed
0
distance of 200 feet, while the smoke latitude of the screen, millions will
stack was blown 300 yards away, now be enabled to follow his side
The explosion was caused by a lack splitting antics and his inimitable
of water in the boiler, which had methods of comedy portrayal. The'
been considered dangerous for some subject selected for Mr. Bernard's in
time, and the people of Garden Grove troduction to the motion picture pub-^
were not surprised when it did blow hC( "Poor Schmaltz," presents him in
Marriage licenses were issued the maker who becomes the principal
past week as follows: agent in a series of excruciatingly
I Geo. W. Culp 24 to Ruth Bennett comic adventures, and it is certain.
IS. that this characterization will rahk
Henry J. Bryant 23 to Mettie J. with the popular star's greatest com
Boyd 24. edy creations and be recorded as one
Albert, the youngest son of Mr.
side and was a member of the Metho- tk®
REPORTER FOR SALE BILLS
0f
and Mrs. Nathan Perdew, died at the the screen.
home of his parents in Leon Wed-: Matinee at 3 o'clock, first night
nesday. He was 22 years of age, and show at 7:15. Prices 10 and lo cents,
had been a sufferer from lung trouble
for some time. I Mrs. L. M. Kob.
Frank Craigo, who has been a1 T. v.
faithful compositor in The Reporter'
office for some time, left Monday for H&unah Wimmer, was born in Hen-
delegates
Decatur County Boy Defeats Harrison Mrs. S. H. Duffield, Mrs. J. B. Kent
County, Mo., Poultry Breed- ner and Miss Jemima Ko.b were pres
ers Again. ent to witness the going out of a
beautiful life of service for her Mas-
W. W. Moore, of Pleasanton, who ter and those by whom she was sur
breeds Single Comb Rhode Island rounded. She, with her husband,
chickens, defeated the Harrison united with the Church of the Breth
county poultry breeders with his Red ren more than fifty years ago. Her
.and Buff Cochins, also with his Indi- husband was called to the ministry
an Runner Ducks, at the Ridgeway which greatly increased her respon
Ifair, winning ist and 2nd S. C. Red sibilities in the home and church,
cockerel, 1st and 2nd S. C. Red pul- yet she never complained, but always
let and 1st pen, 1st on Buff cochin bore her part of the burdens cheer
cockerel and 1st and 2nd on Buff fully and lived true to her Master.
VOLUME LXIII, NO. 10.
IDLE HOUlt SPECIALS.
Paramount Feature Plays Again Be*
ing Presented—Two Extra Good
Ones for Friday and Monday.
I The Idle Hour theatre resumed th»
'special Paramount feature plays thia.
week, the first one being shown «Mon—
... 'day night when Marguerite Clark.
(Paramount
I the first of the week. It was dedicat- and on the regular programs here
:ed on Wednesday. It was built by after four reels instead of three will
I Joe Leeper, the boss bridge builder, foe shown. The last episode of "Peg
land is a credit to the builder. Davis
0
City feels very proud over it. ening, and the next serial, "The
R. G. Benton informs us that, he Shielding Shadow," positively the
has killed 84 rattle snakes on nls greatest serial ever produced will be.
farm southwest of Decatur City this commenced on Thursday evening,
year. His little boy was bitten by Oct. 26th.
one and in less than an hour they! Friday evening Elsie Janis the in
had killed eight snakes within a ternational star, will appear in
short distance of where he was stand-. ''Nearly a Lady," written by. herself,
jing when he was bitten. Mr. Benton What can't Elsie ^Janis do? After
says the only way he can account for seeing her wonderful lariat dance
'so many is that parties owning raw with the cowboys in her new Bos
land hear his farm have fenced it to worth Incorporated, photo comedy,
pasture this year, and thinks the "Nearly a Lady," that is the first
cattle drove the snakes from this question that arises. Mimic, singer,
wild land. dancer, author, Elsie Janis is gifted
Dr. Layton made quite a drive last with the ability to assimilate any^
Sunday. He left Leon at 8:15 in the'new pursuit and make herself so the
morning and drove his team to master of it that she outdoes those
Grand River, where lie was joined by! who have been at it for years. In
Dr. Bone with his team. They drove ."Nearly
John and Virge Penniwell, Jake all the time describes a flying hoop
Warner, Horry Long and Geo. VV. abound her like the hoop of a crino-"
Wadsworth packed their camping line. And the marvel of it is that her
outfit and accompanied by their dogs dance is far more expert than those
and guns, started Monday for Lake of Art Accord and his boys, who are
Waubonsie, out on the Missouri riv- genuine cowboys, ored and brought
er bottoms for a couple of weeks up on ranch and range, "inearly'a
duck shooting. The boys promised to Lady," the third of the film comedies
send us some ducks, ana we will Elsie Janis has played for Bosworth
never believe they killed a/ay if we Incorporated, is her favorite. Filled
do not feast on wild ducks. (We are with action of a new kind and carry
still waiting for the ducks.—Editor) ing
a
Last Saturday afternoon about 2 fies her preference.
o'clock the boiler of a saw mill own-j Matinee at 3 o'clock, first nigh?
ed by J. C. Lewis at Garden Grove, show at 7:15. Prices 10 and 15 cents.
exploded with a terrible report. The On Monday, Oct. 23rd, the cele
mill was located at the rear of the brated comedian Sam Bernard will
'opeTa heuse. Two little boys, Har- make his first screen appearance as
old Wilson and Ethan Caster, were poor Schmaltz," a hilarious comedy,
playing near by when the explosion produced by Daniel rohman and the
occurred and were blown quite a dis- Famous Players Film Co.
tance, both being covered with mud in obtaining the exclusive motion
and badly bruised. It was thought picture services of Sam Bernard, the
at the time there were three boys -world's most famous eccentric coin
land the water was drained from the edian. the Famous Players Film Co.,
.pond, expecting to find the third boy has secured one of the most notable
dead, but luckily he had left the vi- acquisitions to the screen ever ef
cinity a short time before the explos- fected. Through the media of his:
ion. The proprietor, Mr. Lewis, was long list of celebrated stage success
quite badly scalded, and the boiler ©s, Mr. Bernard has made hundreds
was blown clear across the street, a
thousands laugh. With the wider
the hilarious role of a German wig
the foremost travesty triumphs of
Tr Ann^
Sept. 8 th at the rtarrison County ture. Funeral services were held at*
Fair at Bethany, Mo., his S. C. Reds the Franklin church, conducted by P.
won 1st, 2nd and 3rd cockerel, 1st, A. Garber, interment in the nearby
2nd and 3rd. pullet,, and 1st pair of cemeiery.
Indian Runner Ducks, making a total
of sixteen ribbons won at the two Raising Sunflowers for Chicken Feed4£^i|
fairs. He certainly has some fowls,
that are worth showing.
daughter of Abraham and
ry county, Indiana, Dec. 11, 1837,
and died at her home in Decatur
county, Iowa, Oct. 8, 1916, aged 78
yqars, 10 months and 23 days. She
was married to L. M. Kob, March 29,
1857. This union was blessed with
five children, two boys and .three
girls, the boys and the husband pre
ceding her in death. The daughters,^
Cochin pullet, and 1st on Indian Run- until death. Besides her chlldren.%
ner Ducks, the pair. she leaves eleven grandchildren,
This makes the second time this twenty great-grandchildren and a^'-g|
[fall that i)e has defeated them as on host of friends to mourn her depar-^"'
Isaac
______ catur City, this year raised a big crop
Rev. Irl R. Hicks, Weather Prophet, of mammoth sunflowers on his faring
IMed at His Homel He planted a tract and cultivated itt-i'
-y like any other crop, and has a large'"
Rev. Irl R. Hicks, publisher of quantity of seed harvested which he
Word and Works and Irl R. Hicks' will use for chicken feed. He'
Almanac, considered the most noted it makes the, finest Kind of
"long distance" weather forecaster feed and produces a big yield,
in the world, died at his- home in chickens doing extra well on
Wellston, adjoining St. Louis, last feed.
Wednesday. His death was due to _.
pneumonia. He was 71 years-old. "1 The election tickets are now
He was a veteran of the Civil War, printed. Under the new absent
having fought on the Confederate
ers
dist ministry. He retired from the absent on election day- for
ministry in 1889. He accumulated a absentee ballot after Tuesday,
fortune through his publications. 24th.
Hicks' Almanac was a household! .,
word in the homes of many through-' Th® democratic county candi
out the rural districts of the country, are all working hard to be
and it is said that circuses arranged Their friends in every part of
afrssi'wsKr f•*
'y'^sgjl
A
12 PAGE%
pictures will be shown*
the Ring," will be shown this ev—
a
to Wirt over in Ringgold county boys, headed by Art Accord, the fa
-where they met Dr. Maxwell with an-
moU
other team and were driven out four these bewildering dances with Elsie
miles in the country to visit Mrs. Janis looking on When they are,
Huliinger, arriving mere at 12:15. finisiied she frankly doffs her riding
They started to return at 3:30 skirt and uncomfortable riding
.o'clock, got to Grand River at 5:30, breeches and proceeds to do the lar
and Dr. Layton was home again be- jat dance she has just seen, with toes
fore church was out in the evening, tripping prettily in perfect time she
ridden close to 75 miles since dances inside the whirling rope
breakfast. which by means of her supple wrist,
Lady," the Montana cow-
rider, demonstrates some of
pretty love story it quite justi-
Norman, of southwest of De-#
law,, application can be mac
cunty
ouditor by any voter
jand the entire county ticket will
^elected from top to bottom.
ft, Tjjfc-iiftag ",fi
&
•S
•ll
