State Historical Society
Taney County
EPUBLICAN
V..L. 'J I. No. V.K
FOKSYTH, MlOL'Ul, TUUHSDAY, OCToHKII ISM',.
Four I.'itrp.
THE REPUBLICAN
SIE PLATFORM
DECLARATION OF PARTY PRINCI
PLES FOR 1916 RINGS
TRUE.
ALTRUISTIC. YET PRACTICAL
Seeks Relief From Long Continued
Domination, and Makes Pledge
of Economy, Integrity and
Efficiency.
Following is the trxt of the plat
form adopted by the Itf publican Siatr
Convf-ntion at Jptfi-ison City, August
23:
The Itpptililuan party of Missouri,
Kprakinn through a convention of its
ltprrsentativi's chosen as the law di
rects, makes the following declara
tion of Its principles:
INDORSEMENT OF NATIONAL
PLATFORM AN? CANDIC ATES.
Wr reaffirm the Republican nation
al platform In every part'.i tilar, as
adopted at the Chicago convention,
and pledge our loyal support to st
cv.re the election of Hon. Charles
Kvans Hughes and Hon. Cliarlee
Warren Fairbanks, our candidates
for president aiid vice president, re
spectively. LOYAL AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP.
We stand for an American citizen
ship that Rhall be unconditionally
loyal to those principles of Individual
liberty and representative govern
ment upon which our fathers founded
this great republic and which guar
antee, to every citizen the protection
of his life, his liberty and the enjoy
ment of the fruits of his legitimate
industry at home and abroad.
PROTECTION OF AMERICAN
RIGHTS.
We believe in the protection of
American labor, in the guaranty of
the full rights and privileges of
American citizenship to every citizen
and the guarnniy of equal opportu
nity to all and the equality of men
before the law.
PROTECTION OF CITIZENS AT
HOME AND ABROAD.
We believe in the faithful fulfill
ment of our national obligations and
In maintaining a fixed policy of good
faith and justice to all nations, while
demanding and securing from other
nations the same rpspect for our
rights and the same protection to
our citltens, dwelling or sojourning
In their territory, that our laws se
cure to their citizens within our bor
ders; and we insist upon the. observ
ance by all nations with whom we
have intercourse of the fundamental,
Just and recognized principles of In
ternational law.
PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT OF IN
TERNATIONAL DISPUTES.
We believe in International peace
and friendship, and we would In
dorse any practical plan to prevent
the resort to war for the settlement
of disputes hetwern nations.
NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS.
We believe In adequate and timely
national preparedness economic, In
dustrial, linancial, military and naval
us the snrosi proteeton against war
ntid as tho only salvation of our
country in case of war.
PROTECTIVE TARIFF.
We favor a tariff law, frnmed on
Republican principles, so that it shall
adequately pritrct American labor
and prevent the destruction of Amer
ican Industries which is sure to fol
low the termination of the present
war In Europe, If the I'nderwood
tariff law enacted by the Democratic
party, shall remain In force. That
law should be repealed as part of a
rational program of national prepared
ness. The notorious failure of this law,
even as a reveinip measure, has com
pelled the Democratic party to resort
to an oi'ions Ftanip tax, denominated
a "war m" In time of peace.
A FIRM AND DIGNIFIED FOREIGN
POLICY.
We denounce the vacillating and
humiliating policy that has been pur
sued by the present national Demo
cratic administration In Its inter
course with foreign nations, a policy
which has everywhere jeopardized
and surrendered American rights,
destroyed American prestige, and sub
jected our country to hatred and con
tempt; and we particularly denounce
the unjust and hyp critical policy of
the present Democratic administra
tion in its dealings with Mexico.
PROTECTION OF AMERICAN CITI
ZENS IN MEXICO.
When the present Democratic pres
ident came into power three years
ago, he Immediately began a policy
of intervention and intermeddling in
the internal affairs of the Mexican
republic, coupled with a contemptu
ous disregard and abandonment of
the rlchts and Interests of American
citizen domiciled In Mexico or en
gaged In commerce and industry
therein, an Intervention which helped
to destroy every prestige of responsl
ble government there and reduced
that country to anarchy and ruin
resulting In the loss of hundreds of
American lives and tho destruc
tion of rrir-. of dollars of Amer
ican prop - The d spair n appeals
of O'tr ci.'z'T to their own govern
ment 3"!ir ' c-rn rri deliberate in
suit, robbery n- predion, oti:nge and
muid-r, fell i. pf or 'vrre
rejected as tin' rr'-v rf considera
tion tiy an adm.'r.I r-',!T wlo o pro
fessions of devotion to 'h- - Tvic of
humanity did not ln or r-'cog-oize
ita plala c;'U-'.-..i dun
or i.li!ii'.;ii:iiiis to its own citizens?" "
THE STATE GOVERNMENT UN.
DER THE DOMINATION OF
AN INCOMPETENT DEM
OCRATIC MACHINE.
We point with pride o the signally
able ami efficient management of the1
af':.ir of this state which distln
guiFhed 'be administration of Hon.
Hernrrt S Hadley as forming a bril
liant (hapter in tho political history
of Missouri.
We declare that our state govern
ment now is in the hinds of a selfish
P"' it'ctl machine, who care nothinit
?i r li e wishes or opinions of the pen
p'o of this state, or of the rank and
file of the party to which they l'
Uv.'i, Mi'! who sevr nobody but them
selves. They have devoted their whole
tlit'ti c ' t and effort for years to mr
petuating their hold upon power ;-nd
to creating new offices and cotiiiuis-
sions with fat salaries and their la:) i
lies and retainers, payable out of the
state treasury or supported by officii'
fees imposed upon honest indus'rj
::nd business, or wrung from the gen
eral pfiblic, while at the same time
the legitimate charges of government
and of public education and state
w arden.-hip are not met, and brink
ri)'t'-y threatens tre financial admin
istration of the fifth state in tho
I tnon in population and wealth of
r.;uurnl resources. These condition:
have become Intolerable. The pres
ent Pernor ratio administration is thor
oughly discredited and a (b inge Is
itnpi ratiwdy demanded; nor does the
ticket of the Democratic party, re
een ly nominated, offer any promise
of relief to the voters of the stai
THE ONLY RELIEF OFFERED IS
THROUGH THE REPUB
LICAN PARTY.
The Republican party has nomi
tiated a ticket which commands the
support of all citizens interested in
good government and It pledges all
these candidates to nn honest, effi
cient and wise administration of the
affairs of this state that will protect
and promote honest industry and en
courage the development of the nat
ural resources of the state, without
imposing unequal burdens upon any
class of citizens, while at the same
time rigidly preventing monopoly and
special privilege and Insuring equal
opportunity to all who are engaged in
legitimate occupations; an adminis
tration that will restore the State of
Missouri to the position of influence
and leadership in this great nation
which, by wealth and worth of citi
zenship, it is entitled.
THE APPALLING RECORD OF
DEMOCRATIC EXTRAVAGANCE.
Kour years ago the Missouri Re
publican state platform declared:
"Thin state administration has been
so economically conducted as to con
vert a deficit of more than a million
dollars at the beginning of the ad
ministration into a surplus now In the
Mate treasury."
The Democratic state platform of
admitted this surplus and de
clared: "The surplus now in the treasury
?nd the splendid financial condition
of the State of Missouri are due to
tl.e wise and efficient management of
Democratic officers and are the re
suit of laws enacted by Democratic
legislatures."
With the Democratic administration
in ptwer, the financial condition of
the state is now pitiable. Its plight is
not due to loss of revenue. The re
ceipts from general and special taxa
tlou surpass all records. The state
in titutions are crippled. In spite of
the peoi.'cy as to financial conditions,
ant iiituoiis in a free government, it is
k-iown that many of the state instltu
lions scanti'y subsist on borrowed
money or funds doled out by the gov
ernor, acting under a belated and un
constitutional "economy order" of his
own devising. The last General As
sembly overapproprlated the estimat
ed revenue J5.00.0nn. The governor
approved all but $;l,000,000 of this.
On January 26, 1916, after the first
half of the biennium had elapsed, he
issued his "economy order," seeking
to do two years' retrenching in one.
A month prior to this "economy or
der" the Supreme Court of (he state
ordered the return of $1,14.189.32
which bad on July 3, 1S15. been
wrongfully diverted from the public
school fund to the general revenue
fund under a new and fanciful Inter
pretation of the language of an ap
propriation act set forth in a purport
ed opinion by the attorney jeneral,
whirh he repudiated before the test
suit was called for trial. The pretent
Democratic administration added
$3.70.7.14 91 to the cost of govern
ment in its first two years, over the
preceding two yeirs of the Hadley ad
ministration. The appropriations for
salaries alone for 1915 and 1916 ex
ceed those for 1911 and 1912 by $454,
2C2. The last two general assemblies
made unnecessary increases of state
expenditures. Such extravagance and
Incompetency are responsible for the
i humiliating condition of our state fi
! nances.
EFFICIENCY.
We condemn the present adminis
tration for the Iniquitous conduct of
the state institutions. Our charitable
and penal institutions and the police
forces in some of our cities have been
, 'irostituted to the political fortunes of
the Democratic machine. Wanton
, vaste, extravagance, nepotism and In
I ' fficlency have been the rule through
; nut the state. We pledge our candl-
d.vtes to tne reform or such condi
tions, to the establishment of a Gen
eral Board of control of our elee
mosynary institutions, to the adoption
, of the merit system in the public
i -ervice of the state, and to the estab
'isl.ment of economy and efficiency
' in the rtate government, so that It
; -hall be administered In the interests
f the whole people, rather than any
olitiral party.
FINANCIAL JUGCLINQ.
AMft .tfrnlore the inefficient rtanjf
m t and disgraceful Juggling of the
I pi li funds, as has been the custom
: of Di ii'ocritie administrations, both
? ! and present; the diverting and
sifting of n venue from one fund to
j id i i her for the purpose of deluding
i th. tap'ivcr as to the true coridi
: ticns of tl:e finances of the slate, and
: to the end tiiat this evil may be cor
j rerted we advocate the enactment of
I such laws as will give greater pub
; lie'ly to tho tr'ie and actual financial
crt'i'itions of our state.
BUDGET SYSTEM.
We declare in favor of the adoption
of the budget system, under which
nticipated revenues may be com
puted, the necessary amount required
for I'll state expenditures ascertained,
:,nd appropriations kept within the
limits of available revenue; but we
also declare that the absence of a
budget system does not excuse the
Democratic party for the present de
plorable condition of the state's fi
nances, tesulting from Democratic
'.ilsmt.laf emenl
RESTRICTING.
We favor an honest and fair redls
tr'ctli.g of t!ie state Into congression
al, senatorial, legislative a-d Judicial
districts, in accordance with the plain
mi't dates of the state and federal
'aws, to the end that representative
government may no longer be out
raged in Missouri, ami we denounce
he unfair and tin-American divisions
nt'i which, for partisan purposes, the
Drt'toeratic party has divided this
state.
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
We pledge ourselves to the imine
( ia'.e enactment of a Just and prac
ileable workmen's compensation law.
Tlrrty-two states of the I'r.ion have
Taetod such laws within the past six
yet'rs, while Mirsourl. under Demo
ratic rule and in violation of plat
orm pledges, has adhered to obsolete
and unfair laws. We also favor the
enactment of laws designed to pre
vent industrial accidents.
GOOD ROADS.
We congratulate the people on the
progress made in highway improve
ment in some sections of the state,
through the aid of voluntary organiza
tions and by the means of local ef
forts, and we call attention to the fact
that adequate and effectual laws for
state aid and encouragement of high
way construction and maintenance
have not been provided by the Demo
cratic party. We favor a general re
vision of our road laws, so that there
mny be devised a simple hut complete
system of road and bridge construc
tion and maintenance which will be
adapted to the requirements and
means of the various counties of the
state.
We pledge ourselves to the enact
ment of laws necessary to secure the
benefit of aid to road building by the
federal government and to supple
ment these by laws providing for
proper state aid. to the end that roads
of all classes throughout the state be
properly Improved and maintained.
We recognize the necessity of devel
oping the great arteries of travel
throughout the state, and we also
realize the great Importance of Im
proving to a proper standard market
roads and community thoroughfares
of all kinds.
RIVER IMPROVEMENT.
Our senator and ongrewnie n will ad
vance the development by the federal
overnment of our rivers for nil tians
port.ttlon purposes.
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.
We favor audi n ueoleslca'. survey as
will announce to the world the location
and extent of Missouri's vast resources.
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
We favor Hie enactment of amend
ments to the pificnt law whereby the
oust ef politic liiipinvpniciit in i.ur'l up.'
Hies may tie broiiRht williln tlio hmimls
if rr,i!iin and the i-OkI r,f similar Weill in
clher nates. We believe a moditlrjllin,
ef tlie plan thereby reitiin riilm haw
iht.i liixif their p.irk systems if applied
to all fitrei-t improvement proreerjinits.
would enable audi woik to be done at a
saving of a lame per cent of the present
cost of gtieh wot to.
PURE SEED.
W faver the speedy enactment of a
pure seed Ihw, to protect our fnrmeis
ilflnst impure and Infirttle need.
REFORMATION OF COURT PRJ
CEDURE. We believe that the statutes govern
iir court proiedure in thin Mate, In both
cill and criminal c.ises. should be ibor-
Highly revised and uinencied to the end
ih.it tho adinlnlstr;.linn of juance be
n.ide almpler. mere expedltlou'a and les
expensive, anil we ncoininmd the efforls
of the Mutaourl Uar Association now be
ing made In this heha:f.
HOME RULE.
We favor linme rule for the la rue cltlei
of Missouri, both because It H a fundi.
menial Ameiicar. risht and beoaure the
present system may he and has been lued
for (actional ntid partiaan purposes, to
Ihwnrt the will of the vi-teta eieenhere
in the Mate. We condemn the hypocrisy
of tlie Demon ata In plotting to' destroy
home rule utter unexpected development
showed that it was not to their partisan
advantage. We believe that the factional
(.candals that are dlsjTaclns Missouri
tie largely due to gubernatorial control
of the police and ecit matters of the
large cities.
RURAL CREDITS.
We favor a fair, practicable aed ef.
fective eyetem of rural eiedlli as opposed
to the cude, InefUctlva and unwise
scheme known as the Gardner land bank
plan.
PENSIONS FOR BLIND.
We favor a constitutional amendment
for the pensioning of the needy blind.
PENITENTIARY.
V are opposed to tlie partisan po
litical and Inefficient management of the
state penitentiary. W stand for the
humane treatment ' of convleta, tha sep.
aratton of hardened criminals from first
offenders, the establishment of a hospital
for the criminal Insane, the employment
of the able-bodied, aa far as pniatUt In
the open air, and not In competition with
free labor, tlie actual abolition of the
contract system In the penitentiary and
the operation of the penitentiary In a
modem, business-like manner.
We favor the prompt establishment of
an Intermediate reformatory for first
offenders and condemn the Democratic
state officials for completely lanorlnj the
unanimous mandate of the last General
Assembly providing for uch an Institu
tion by the appropriation of $13j,0r'0
which sum the state official! used for
other purpoa. a.
ELECTION LAWS.
The primary am) general election laws
of this state should be thoroughly re
vised, as Hie laws provided by the Dem
ocratle party and now In force, both for
the nomination of candidates for office,
aa well aa for the election to office of
ths- persons nominated, era, uujatlifac
toi-y,
POLICE INTIMIDATION OF
VOTERS.
W .;-tsii.. t;,e pt.etlce. r.f t!:c IVin
err.i'i. Male tiM-'uie in einplov ll'K t'c
poll.v f,,i-es it ,.in, el the lante riles
ef I e M,,V lo coirupt and io:itr"l t!
el"it - .il,. Mil. veil lie Iihctt! et
ih. . itizeiK. by . i.' ir.hrlT.j; th.. crime ,,1
classes nil illi.s f,i political .l.
pos.-c and ey aifstiiij. terrnii.irs and
Olllc.khltlci; Iwi.fSt i,(...s ell elecllen
d y Ti is, i . . t ce er.di i ninies tlie vciy
tcucd.iti.ci- .f t : . i i run-en! aril
she:, (I r. .-eie ei ciu helming oil: lomn.1
lion at lie- I ill.s by .ill pond citiens 'if
this t'le
We .nut lib p! ide t,. 'he faithful and
zealous mincer In MUnli the llcpiihhr.i a
pnt'U his -CI ail n.r imhi.s piuteiled.
Ittunieil aid ci he! 1 the tlKl,t i.t n.i'vhm,.
Of f'.eiy i i.ihh.si xoter ef this stale and
gilal.oi'i'ol M ie: vntir tl.e linht lo
fist hi.-i lull..' aid to ha-.-p that ballot
pot. i 1. d ,-s east. V.. pionese the voters
of the s'.itc .tissuui i that the Kepub
llc.e; pntv if put In pnw-r. will hi the
fiitcie in net. in tni.s hi(;h debtee of faii-lie-s
a-ai .-n l'-l- icv.
HEALTH BOARDS.
Ti e party stands for a.h-ounte finan
cial support of health boaid and healtii
otThiis if the stale, fuiiniics anil ritna
11 fl.iiuls for i he mail. t-n nn ,- c comity
tub, i cidesis hospitals aid p'lhhc tuber
eulntis tiurse si i '. 'e h iiaiic ia lly aided by
the Mate and n. ilon.
DAIRY LAWS.
We favef tlie fev.shCi ef the tl.til aws
of me si ne so that t!a v will tnee (he
ple.-cnt lice-Is ,,p ni'-U"ti il.irnni;
NEW CONSTITUTION.
j We favor tie s. bulls ton lil th" next
lll-IC-l.ll S .1 I i I ' . III-- MHI-TS i I1H-
soiu i of the qui sthm ef a new ceiisiltu
tien. We d. claie In this cnnrn-ction that .
lieu eiuistlrntlou sheidd be fiamed as a
lioiip.it tis.i n Instrument, and t het cforc w
recommend that Uie snhmlsno i be mad"
in a foirn to provide for n eip.aMe an I
Jni- representation ef t political rattns
In 't.itninK sild lnti ument.
t'pon the foregoing declaration of prin
ciples w enntidently appeal to the .oteis
f this atate.
Oipiomacy of Dollars And Sense.
"In respect M American interest
j-iroad " said Mr. Hughes a! Biltimore
"w have not only diplomacy wither,'
dollars but diplomacy without sense."
"Pol ar diplomacy" is a phrase popular
imong European critics of American
methods who delight to picture us as
i tuition ol money grabbers, and among
Democratic orators and editors who
rmliciously associate it with Republi
can policies. The assumption is of
course, that money is iocoked upon
wrh disdain by Europeans and Demo
crats, who could under no circumstan
ces, be induced to touch a dollar f. r
fear of moral contanmination. Europe
may be excused, having no dollars but
the aflcction of the Democratic is rank
hypocricy. Almost all diplomacy has
to deal with matters directly affecting
trade and commerce, and money is the
medium of all trade and commerce.
Dollar diplomacy is in no way different
in its purposes and results' from pound
diplomacy or franc diplomacy cr mark
diplomacy. Every nation worthy cf
the Dame develops and protects its
trade. Every nation worthy of the
name endeavors to promote its trade
with other lands, and diplomacy is ap
plied to all by this end. No matter
what term may be applied to it, its
moving spirit is money, whether it be
German or French or British or Ameri
can. And this, in spite of the Democratic
Pharisees is as it should be. America
notwithstanding the epithet, has been
far behind the other great nations of
the world in the diplomacy of money.
This country as Mr. Wilson says with
truth, "has not played its proportion
ate part in the development of the
trade of the world." But we can nevei
play our proportionate part unless our
commerce and the men who go cut
into the world to develop that com
merce are protected Mr. Wilson's
words in this as in other matters fail
to square with his deeds. He talks
beautifully of world trade, but he gives
the world to understand that Americans
abroad have no rights this government
is bound or inclined to respect. Amer
icans cannot develope international
trade by staying at home. They must
go after it, when normal conditions are
restored, just as do the Germans, the
British and the French. And they
cannot get it or hold it unless the
American (lag hangs over them when
ever they go. The diplomacy that en
sures their protection and the main
tenance of their rights is at once the
diplomancy of dollars the diplomacy ol
patriotism. There have been no doll
ars no sense and no patriotism in the
diplomacy of the Wilson administra
tion. Globe Democrat.
Nothing with the semblance of
single-tax will ever pass the farmers of
Missouri. The so called political land
loan bank and its author, who hopes to
ride into public honors on it's fasci
nating title, are in that category and
wont do.
A Railroad Engineer's view.
Edgar J.iv Dwyer of Bayonne, N. J.,
former chi.-f engineer of Central Divis
ion Brotherhood of Locomotive Engin
eers, writes to the New York Sun a let
ter which should h? read by
every railroad man. "During the last
month" he savs, "I have personally
interviewed many intelligent railroad
men regarding the probable effect of
the Adamson law. With scarcely an
exception they do not prettnd to un
derstand it." But Mr. Djrytr does not
cur tine himself to a condemnation cf
he Ari.imson law. Heappials to his
fellow-workmen upon broader grounds
and s iy:
The invetijhle effect of Wilson's
e'nction at the close rf the European
I -'ar will be anmktdand decided
decrease iu the volume cf rai'road busi
ness and employment. No matter
what your rate of pay is if you have no
woik your income will be emitted from
the pay roll. Every intelligent rail
road nian should learn the undisputed
lift that the prosperity of his business
cannot be separated from the industrial
and mii.ing prosperity (;f the CJtintry.
The great volume uf inland tnnspcrr
ition is furnished by these industries,
and whatevet reduces their business
strangles the business of the railroads.
A tariff that increases foreign com
petition reduces home production and
decreases '.he volume of railroad busi
ness. Ask any old time tailroad man
if he remembers the fnir years from
1893 to 1897 when there were no pro
motion in the train service for the
whele period and thousands were de
graded. That was the Cleveland low tariff
panic. A low tariff law always brings
railroad depression. Look back to the
winterof 1914 IS, before the war be
gan lo'grow, under President Wilson's
un-American tariff law. Just read
your official organs at that tinu; they
tell the story, and tell it clearly.
Look at the long list of expulsions
for nonpayment of dues, which meai s
out of work. At that tfme more tl an
400,000 were unemployed, while there
wis a string of empty freight cars that
would reach on a single track from
New York City to Denvtr, Colorado.
Remrmbcr that Woodrow Wilson is
asking for a re election on a platform
that indorses that tariff. I appeal to
my fellow-railroad men not to vote for
a return of the hard times that were
created solely by the Underwood-Wilson
tariff law.
This is the argument of sense.
Railroad men should not be misled by
a false claim cf an eight hour work day
to an abandoment of principles that
are essential to their prosperity.
Globe'Democrat.
Who Must Bear the Burden?
Although Judge Lamm has repeated
ly asked Col. Gardner, millionaire Coffin
Maker and Democratic nominee fcr
Governor, where the million dollars
will come from to start his land bank
scheme, Col. Gardner has not yet
answered the question. In a recent
speech, he said the state appropriated
a million dollars for the World's Fair
in St. Louis, and three million dollars
for a state capitolat Jefferson City, and
would find a way to appropriate the
money for the land bank.
The million dollars appropriated for
the World's Fair was raised through a
special tax and the money to build
the State capitol was raised by interest
bearing bonds. Both of these funds
meant additional taxation. If it is
Gardner's intention to follow this plan,
he should be honest enough to say so.
If, in addition to the interest in
which the farmer would have to pay to
the land bank, he must pay an addi
tional tax to establish and maintain the
institution, then the real cost of the
loan would not be low as Mr. Gard
ner would have them believe. If the
funds to start and maintain this bank
are to be raised through extra general
taxes, then a burden is put on every
taxpayer in the state, and even though
a cheaper rate is provided for the farm'
er, the other taxpayers must make up
the difference. This is robbing Peter
to pay Paul.
If it is Gardner's intention in furnish
ing the funds for this institution to tax
the residjnts of the cities (who cannot
borrow a penny from ths land bank)
and the farmers (who do not borrow
ftom the land bank,) then he should
be honest enough to say so and let
these taxpayers know that they, and
not the land bank itself, are mak
ing possible cheaper interest rates.
Col. Gardner as a Democrat, reach
es the Jeffersonian doctrine of "Equal
Rights for All and Special Privileges
For None." Yet if his land bank
plan gres through a large majority of
our citizens will be taxed to establish
a bank with which they themselves
deal.
Col. Gardner should take the public
into hisctnfidence ai.d tell them frank
ly where he proposes to raise the mon
ey to establish and maintain his land
bank and who will have to bear the
burden.
David W. Hill Made Powerful Speech.
The wavering diplomacy of the pre
sent administration was subjected to a
dispersing denunciation by Hon. David
W. Hill the Republican nominee for
Congress from this district, in a lengthy
address at the court house last Tues
day afternoon.
The meeting was presided over by
Hon. H. S. Wilson the defeated caudi
date fur the nomination from the coun
ty. In introducing the speaker, Mr.
Wilson heartily endorsed the nomin
ated candidate as the choice ol the
people and pledged his earnest support
in leaving nothing undone toward sec
uring his election in November.
Mr. Hill spoke for an hour and a
half principally on national issues to an
audience that filled the large court
room to its standing capacity, He
pointed out that although this is a
great wealth producing district, the
Underwood tariff law, previous to the
outbreak cf the European war, had
seriously affected the markets for 'the
products of the di.iiricts. The lumber
ing mills of his own county cf Butler
vere lorceii in many instances to shut
; the cotton growers cf the dist
rict adopted tht slogan "Buy a bale,"
and were begging a market lor their
product to keep Ircm starving; wheat
was selling at CO cents per bushel, and
horses, cattle and mules were almost
valueless, he said. The onlv prosper
ity we have is only temporary and it is
the result of war prices and not as the
result of the Underwood tariff law, but
in spite of it during the period ol oper
ation of the Underwocd tariff law previ
ous to the outbreak of the war, there
were 3,000 000 laborers in the United
States made involuntary tramps for the
lack of employment, postollices all over
the country were being used by the
government, not to give jobs, but to
seek jobs for unemployed men he said.
In dealing with the Mexican situa
tion. Mr. Hill reviewed the numerous
blunders of the Wi sonion admininis
stration and called attention to the fact
that more Americans lives have been
lost during the present Mexican muddle
in time of peace (? ) than were lost
during the Spanish American ar under
Republican rule.
Mr. Hill was interupted at interveals
during his speech by applauses from
his enthusiastic hearers. Several of
our beloved old soldiers were present
and heartily enjoyed and approved of
the message. Mr. Hill is the son of a
Union soldier, and is a friend to all of
the old comrades. He favors a pensi
on of at least 81.00 per day and believ
es in giving the pension while the old
boys are alive. Under the present
automatic system of increasing the
pension with the increase of age, a
comrade rarely reaches the age where
he receives SI. 00 a day. We are glad
to say that Mr. Hill has made a lasting
impression of friendship with the old
boys of this section. In fact we hard'
ly know of one who intends to vote
against him while several have express
ed themselves for him Douglas Coun
ty Herald, Sept. 21, 1916.
Real prosperity involves one's ability
to live well and accumulate a compe
tence for old age. How many people
are prosperous today?
