THE BARRE DAILY TIM
VOL. XX NO. 184.
BARUE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1016.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
ANOTHER YEAR
OF WAR AHEAD
The British Give Up Hope of
Breaking Through Line
in Present Drive
GERMANS ALSO EX
PECT LONG WARFARE
Entente Allies. Will Spend
Tjme Trying to Wear
Down the Enemy
The British front in France, Oct. 18
via London, Oct. lit, (copyright of the
Associated Press) llie war will last an
other yoar according to the censored
opinion among the British soldiers and
their leaders. It is also the opinion of
the Germans, if the views of the prig.
oners count for anything.
Before the grand offensive started,
high authority informed the correspond
cut of the Associated Press that the Ger
man line would not be broken this sum
mer and that slow operations wearing
down the Germans would be inaugurated
which would probably last through an
other summer.
German prisoners taken during the
summer invariably spoke of peace as
certainty in the autumn, but their tone
has been entirely different of late. They
recognize that it is a fight to the finish
and that the ultimate decision will come
from the fearful attrition on the west
em front, which now will know no inter
mission until the end.
The Germans arc determined to make
every village on the western front a for
tress, which will yield only when re
duced to powder bv machine gun fire.
At a period when the weather is adverse
to offensive operations elsewhere, the
Germans are apparently concentrating
every possible man and gun against Ku
mania.
The view of the British officer is that
the Germans hope to crush Rumania so
Hint when they have to face a common
allied offensive in the spring they may
not have to defend the immense length
of the Rumanian frontier in addition to
what thev have had to defend this sum
mer.
DESPERATE DRIVE
BY BRITISH FAILED
Berlin .Reports That They Fought From
Daybreak to Noon to Pierce L
Sars-Morvan Line.
Berlin, via London, Oct. 19. Desper
ate fighting occurred yesterday on the
Somme front in consequence of efforts
to pierce the German line on the LeSars
Morvan front, the war office announced
to-day. The attacks continued from
daybreak until noon and are said to
have failed partially under the German
fire. The German positions were either
held or recaptured after being lost.
ENTENTE OFFENSIVE
IN MACEDONIA
Despite unsettled conditions in.
Greece, which apparently have mil- '
itated against the determined
pushing of the entente operations
on the Macedonian front, fresh and
Hiiccessful attacks by French and
Serbian troops are reported. In
terest attaches to further possible
developments in the Vardar re
gion, in the center of the Macedo
nian front, where little but artil
lery activity is reported during
vigorous operations on either flank.
Last nights announcement from
Paris that hostile trenches west of
the river Vardar had been pene
trated a quarter of a mile in an
attack by French troops indicates
the possibility of an entente offen
sive in force, to be extended to
this important section of the front.
The repulse of allied attacks
with heavy losses on various parts
of the Saloniki front is reported
in an official statement from Sofia.
London says of operations on the
French front: "Rain fell heavily
during the night. Raiding parties
entered many trenches near Loos
and south of Arras. Otherwise
there is nothing to report.
IRELAND DEBATE PUT OVER.
MORE FRENCH
IN ATHENS
Further Detachment of Ma
rines Entered City
Yesterday
STATE S. S. CONVENTION.
AND DEMANDED
BARRACK QUARTERS
The Situation in Greece Still
Remains Very
Tense
House of Commons Gives 197 Majority
Against Consideration.
London, Oct. 19. Parliament yester
day after a set debate in the House of
Commons decided by a majority of 197
that it was undesirable at the present
moment to discuss Irish controversial do
mestic politics.
I he Irish question was brought up by
John Redmond, the Nationalist leader,
who introduced a motion to the effect
that "the system of government at pres
ent maintained in Ireland is inconsist
ent with the principle for which the allies
are fighting in Europe, and is, or has
been, mainly responsible for the recent
unhappy events and for the present state
of feeling in that country."
An amendment to this motion, intro-
Athens, Wednesday, via London, Thurs
day, Get. 19. A further detachment of
French marines landed this morning, and
their commander demanded the use of
Parliament and university buildings as
barracks.
Ixuidon, Oct. 19. Greece still remains a
center of interest as t ho result of the
landing of entente allied marines at
Piraeus and Athens. Fresh demonstra
tions of bitterness by the Greek popu
lace against the marines have been
shown and the situation still remains
tense.
An Athens dispatch says:
"A French marine patrol last evening
arrested at the point of the bayonet sev
en youths who were hooting the entente
powers. A huge crowd gathered for the
purpose of rescuing them. The Greek
military commander in Athens called out
troops who charged and dispersed the
crowd. Greek patrols were immediately
placed in various districts to control
any attempts at anti-entente manifesta
tions. "The French admiral in command in
formed the premier that he would call
diip1 hv .Tnhn V P. Rau-linson. repre
senting Cambridge university, declared the ministry in the morning, although
that "It is not desirable at the present t is thought possible that as a result of
MADE NEW GAIN AND
HELD OLD ON SOMME
French Advanced Between Biaches and
Lamaisonette and Successfully
Resisted German Counter-Attack.
Paris, Oct. 19. South of the Somme
between Biaches and Lamaisonette, the
French made further progress last night
it was announced officially to-day, and
all the gains achieved yesterday were
held in the face of several cotinter-at
tacks.
On the eastern end of the Macedonian
front the Serbians have captured the
village of Bron, the war office says.
NOT REQUESTED TO MOVE.
And
U. S. Destroyers Were on Hand
For Humanitarian Purposes.
Washington, Oct. 19. It was an
nounced officially yesterday that the
complete information now at hand con
tuiiicd no evidence that American de
stroyers had been requested to move so
that the U-boat could destroy a ship
without accident. The attention given
that report in the debate Tuesday in the
British Parliament caused surprise here as
officials attach little importance to it
one way or the other. It is pointed out
that the destroyers were on hand purely
for humanitarian purposes and that so
long as international law was being ob
served it was but an act of courtesy for
the German commander to give notice
that he intended to sink the vessel.
TWO KILLED IN HOLD-UP.
Express Messenger and Baggage Mas
Were Shot.
Bliss. Okla., Oct. 19. Atchinson, Top
eka and Santa Fe mail-express train No.
5, south bound, was held up and robbed
bv a band of robbers near here last
night.
The express messenger and a baggage
man whose names have not been learned,
were shot and killed by the bandits. Aft
er looting the train the robbers escaped
in an automobile.
Police sent by special train from Perry,
it is said, have taken up the trail of
the robbers, the number of which is not
known.
VILLA'S MEN QUARREL.
Deserters Bring Stories of Serious Dis
sensions. Chihuahua City, OrU 19. Deserters
from Villa's ranks say dissension has
broken out anions the bandit leaders and
Ihst Vilhsiquarreled with Salazcr, while
the latter and Uribe drew revolvers dur
ing a recent dispute. The detvrtrrs as
sort they were impr--wd into the ranks
with threats of death.
time to discuss controversial matters of
domestic politics." This amendment was
adopted by a vote of 303 to 10(i, thus
eliminating the Redmond motion.
The debate reached a high level, not
ably the speech of Mr. Redmond, at
tacking the government administration
of Ireland, especially with regard to
questions of recruiting and the treat
ment of rebel prisoners, and that of
David Lloyd-George, secretary for war,
who made a conciliatory speech which
did much to remove the adverse impres
sion created in the Nationalist ranks by
the speeches of Premier Asquith and the
chief secretary of Ireland, Henry Ed
ward Duke.
The remarks of the premier and the
Irish secretary indicated that there was
no present intention of the government
to change its policy toward Ireland,
Inch proved very disappointing to the
Irish party. This disappointment was
voiced by Joseph Devlin and John Dil
lon.
It was made evident by the debate
that the government has no intention of
applyiner conscription to Ireland. On the
contrary, Mr. Lloyd-George, while ad
nutting that Irish enthusiasm at the be
gining of the war had been stupidly mis
handled, made a fervent appeal to all
parties to help Mr. Redmond revive the
lost enthusiasm and, so, stimulate re
cruiting in Ireland.
A striking interlude was Premier As
quith's acceptance of Timothy Healy's
challenge to send the American ambassa
dor to investigate the treatment of the
Irish rebel prisoners.
the British minister's audience with King
Constantine the French troops may be
withdrawn on a pledge that the Greeks
maintain order,
"It is known that the king has given
command that anti-entente demonstra
tions must cease, as the very existence
of Greece is at stake. It is difficult to
say, however, whether, in the present
state of public opinion over the presence
of marines of the foreign powers at
Athens and Piraeus, even the king's or
ders will be obeyed by the excited popu
lace.
A Renter dispatch from Athens read:
"The British minister to Greece, had a
long interview with King Constantine
this evening and it is understood His
Majesty insisted on the groundlessness of
the suspicion that Greece contemplated
an attack on the forces of General Sar-
rail. As proof of his good faith the king
is said to have declared his readiness
to-withdraw the Greek forces from La
rissa."
Being Held at Brattleboro, Bible Society
Elects Officers.
Brattleboro, Oct. 19. The 4Kth annual
convention of the Vermont State Sun
duy School association and the 104th an
niversary of the Vermont Bible society
are being observed here in a three days'
convention which opened yesterday aft
ernoon in the First Baptist church. The
attendance of delegates crowded the
church auditorium. Rev. William Shaw,
Ph. D., of Montpelier, president of the
Sunday School association, presided at
the afternoon meeting.
The address of the afternoon was by
John L. Alexander of Chicago, second
division superintendent of the Interna
tional Sunday School association.
At the annual meeting of the Bible
society in the afternoon these officers
.were elected: President, . A. Davison
I). I)., Burlingtonj vice-presidents, II. W
Varnum of Jeffersonville and Rev. S. B
Rankin of Newport ; recording secre
tary, Kev. James It, iargent of North
field; treasurer, Dr.-A G. Stickney of
Barre; auditor, H. G. Woodruff of Barre
Last evening the principal address was
by President Guy Potter Benton of the
University of ermont on "The Bible and
Practical Life. )
TWO COURTS
ARE FORMED
Foresters of Vermont and
New Hampshire De
cide to Divide
TWO TEAMS STRUCK.
By Same Automobile Between Burlington
and Winooskl.
Winooski, Oct. li). While James
O'Brien was driving to Burlington on
the lower road on his way to the station
last evening to meet his sister, who was
returning from a two weeks' trip to New
York litv and rmiadclpTna, he was
hit by an automobile going in the same
direction, smashing his team to pieces.
Mr. O'Brien was not hurt, although he
was thrown over the dashboard. The
horse started to run but was caught be
fore he had gono very far. The number
of the automobile could not be learned
at the time, as the accident happened in
that part of the lower road where it is
the darkest. Another automobile coming
along soon after took Mr. O'Brien on to
Burlington. G. C Brown s team from
Kssex Center; driven bv A. A. Caswell,
who was going home from Burlington,
was hit by the same automobile, just the
other side of the bridge. The horse was
cut and bruised about the breast and
left forward leg, a cut about six inches
deep being inflicted. So far as could be
earned the automobile number was
1 412.50. They were traveling at a good
rate of speed, it is said, and did not
stop to see what damage they did. The
police station at Burlington was noti
tied.
CHIMNEYS OVERTURNED
And Occupants of Houses Fled, Fearing
Damage from Earthquake.
Atlanta, Ga., Oct. 10. The South was
rocked by earthquake and swept by
storm at the same time yesterday. While
a tropical hurricane was flaying the gul:
coast, earth tremors overturned chim
neys and frightened many people from
their homes in Georgia, Alabama and
Tennessee.
The earthquake did little damage, but
a wind that reached a velocity of 114
miles an hour lifted roofs from houses at
Pcnsacola, Fla., and sunk a number of
vessels in the harbor. One life was lost.
Mobile reported that it had been
touched more lightly, although the wind
blew 110 miles an hour. Two small
buildings were destroyed and a negro
woman was killed by a live wire.
Birmingham. Ala., Oct. 19. The Bir
mingham district felt a severe earth
quake at 4 o'clock yesterday. Many
chimneys were knocked down. Office
buildings were rocked, and thousands
poured from their doors after the shock
Louisville, Ky., Oct. 19. A slight earth
quake was felt over a wide area in Jxmis
ville at 4:05 o'clock vesterday. Police re.
ported that tall buildings noticeably were
rocked down town, whilo in the outlying
districts pictures swayed and chmaware
rattled.
BLOWN THROUGH WINDOWS.
Wind Reached Velocity of 114 Miles an
Hour at Pensacola.
Penaseola, Fla., Oct. 19. The gale blew
three or four persons through plate glass
windows in the downtown district and
carried away the weather obsevation
tower on top of a high building vester
day. The barometer registered 29.0fl just
before all instruments were put out of
commission yesterday morning, and the
gale had raged up to 114 miles an hour
and then dropped in ten minutes to 14 be
fore a change of direction and a rise to
98 miles took off the tower.
CAR SPEEDED ON.
After Knocking Another Automobile Into
the Ditch.
Brattleboro. Oct. 19. Mrs. Alice Hewes
of Fairriew, Mas., telephoned State's At
torney O. B. Hughes late yesterday after
noon that a ear, in which she with her
husband and two sons were riding, was
struck and ditched by a car of Vermont
registry, containing five men, about five
miles south of Brattleboro.
The Hewes car was south -bound. Mrs.
Hewes was injured about her head and
the others shaken np and their car was
considerably damaged.
LAVISH BENEDICT HELD.
On Charge of Altering Money Order to
Unheard of Denomination.
Concord, N. H.( Oct. 19. United States
Marshal Charles J. O'Neill will go to
Walpole to bring Richard Wood to Con
cord for arraignment before United
States Commissioner Burns P. Hodgman,
on a charge of altering a money order,
United States District Atty. Fred If.
Brown instructed Marshal O'Neill to go
alter the young man, who cut a wwe
swath in Bellows Falls and Walpole on
Tuesday by virtue of a money order call
ing for $1,000, which he showed to va
rious merchants and the proprietor of
the Walpole hotel to obtain credit for
clothing, jewelry, automobiles and a ban
quet to as many residents of the two
towns as cared to indulge in an old-fash
ioned turkey spread.
The fact that the postoffioe department
does not issue money orders for sums
exceeding $100 appears never to have
occurred to any of the persons who lav
ished credit upon ood and only be
cause the hotel proprietors suspicions
were raised because his guest was so
slow in cashing the order broueht about
Wood's arrest Tuesday night. The young
man and his bride-toTbe visited many
stores in Bellows Falls, obtaining goods
valued at (500 from the Goodnow de
partment store and jewelry worth $300
from another, it is reported.
Hood was in a state of physical col
lapse j-esterday, so bad that physicians
advised the officers not to bring him to
this city. An effort was made to settle
up the matter by paying the bills con
tracted by Wood, it was reported here,
but Dist. Atty. Brown declined to drop
the ease and ordered Wood brought here
for arraignment.
The young woman he married in the
Walpole hotel parlor Tuesday night re
mained in Walpole to be near her hus
band, and it is understood she will come
here with him when Marshal O'Neill
brings him to-night.
NO PROTECTION ABROAD
During the Past Three Years, Declared
Theodore ' Roosevelt.
Louisville, , Ky., Oct. 19. Asserting
that for three years there has been "no
protection to our citizens abroad," Theo
dore Roosevelt, in an address last night.
assailed the course of President Wilson
in dealing with Mecico and his conduct
of the country's foreign affairs.
"It combined lofty promises and com
plete failure in performance. It consist
ed of words which were nullified by
deeds," he said, in summing up his view
of the president's course.
Eiltering Kentucky in the forenoon.
Colonel Roosevelt delivered more than a
dozen rear-platform addresses before he
reached Ixmiaville. Crossing the Ohio
river at Cincinnati, his course took him
almost to the Tennessee line. At Paris
and Cynthianna, he told his audiences he
was glad to be -n Kentucky, where, if it
was necessary, "the people: were not too
proud to fight."
SEPARATE LIST OF
OFFICERS CHOSEN
Interesting Public Session
Was Held in Barre
Last Evening
WELL KNOWN IN MIDDLEBURY.
Charles H. LaMorder Died on Tuesday
Evening at Age of 61.
Middleburv, Oct. 19. Charles H. La-
Morder, a long-time and much respected
resident of this village, died at his home
on North Pleasant street Tuesday even
ing at the age of 61 years. Mr. La
Morder had been in ill health for some
time from the effects of a shock two
years ago. He is survived by four daugh
ters, Mrs. Charles Miller of Vergennes,
Mrs. Frank Munford, with whom he
lived. Mrs. Frank Stay of Burlingtoi
and Miss Katherine LaMorder of this
village. He was a member of Lake Dun-
more lodge, No. 11, I. O. 0. F., of this
village and its several branches and was
member of high standing, having
passed through all the chairs in tho
same and also held the office of district
deputy of the encampment branch. The
funeral will be held at his home jriday
afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Impressed by the remarkable growth
of forestry in Vermont and New Hamp
shire, delegates to the annual conven
tion of the high court of the two states
at the closing session in the Scampini
hall this forenoon voted to divide into
two courts, thereby returning to a sep
arate conduct of affairs that ended six
years ago when Vermont and New
Hampshire members of the order, assem
bled in Newport, voted to consolidate. An
inkling of what was to transpire was
given at the meeting yesterday after
noon when the reports of the secretary
and treasurer indicated that Forestry in
the twin states has been making rapid
strides in the past year.
J lie separation was brought about
with the cordial consent of delegates
from courts in both New Hampshire and
Vermont. There was very little dissent
ing, even at the outset, from the pro
posal to continue two high courts, each
to constitute an individual jurisdiction.
Originally, the consolidation plan was
adopted when it developed that the work
of the order on both sides the Connecti
cut river would be best carried out by a
single set of officers. In six years the
growth of Forestry has" been so marked
that to high officials of the order the
separation plan seemed to be the only
igieal step.
In Vermont alone there are 2,300 mem
bers of the Independent Order of For
esters and in New Hampshire the total
approaches 2,500. In the Granite state
here -are 34 courts and here in V er
mont there are 43 individual lodges. Offi
cers were elected for each state just be
fore noon to-day and by virtue of an
ffort on the part of the officers to ex
pedite the affairs of the convention as
much as possible, adjournment was tak
en soon after 12 o'clock. The matter of
selecting a meeting place for the 1917
convention was left to the discretion of
the executive officers in each state.
Officers for each high court were elect
ed by acclamation and after the election
the officers-elect were installed by George
A. Mitchell of Toronto, Ont., one of the
assistant supreme rangers, and George;
Bailey of New York, another as- j
sistant. They were assisted bv liar-1
ev Llwd of Toronto, who acted in the
capacity of supreme marshal. Just as
the ceremony in which the officers re-
ceived the obligations was concluded, Mr. j
Lloyd sang two solos peculiarly fitting
to the occasion. His valedictory message I
was one of optimism and a charge to the
delegates to carry the spirit of the con
vention back to their local courts.
Vermont officers for 1918-17 are as
follows: High chief ranger, George If.
Anderson of Franklin; past high chief .j
ranger, Walter If. Heath of Beecher
Fails; high vice chief ranger, Edward L.
McGinnis; high secretary, George O.
Mitchell of St. Allmns; high treasurer,
Kimball of Eno9burg rails; high
and New Hampshire court, presided st
mass meeting which began at H o'clock
Rollicking humor bv Harvey Lloyd,
well known Canadian comedian, put the
audience in good spirits and just as oft
en us the funny man appeared he was
vociferously applauded. Harold Tromb
ley was happy in a number of vocal solos
ami was frequently encored. A number
of character and classical selections by
Mrs. K. J. Ciimmings proved a real treat.
She is a merzo-spprano of more than
ordinary ubility and her contributions
to the musical program were of unusual
merit.
George A. Bailey of New Yolk, the
first speaker, gave an interesting de
scription of what Independent Forestry
is doing for members who are in the in
cipient stages of disease. The Rainbow
sanatorium was the subject of all illu
minating narrative which brought home
to many of those present a tangible no
tion of what frateriialisni in one of its
most practicable -aspects reully means.
Mr. Bailey said that the sanatorium had
a message of hope for Foresters who are
afflicted with affections that have been
designated ns incurable. and besought fur
the institution the continued support of
foresters throughout the nation.
F. L. Kinney of New York, superin
tendent of field work in Vermont, told
his hearers of his oK-crvHtions while
traveling up and down the Green Moun- j
tain state and urged that more and
more attention be paid to organization
ami the work of upbuilding the order.
He spoke optimistically of the order's
future and laid special emphasis on the
need of attending meetings regularly,
George A. Mitchell of Toronto, Ont., an
assistant to the supreme chief ranger,
chose for his subject, "Real Fraternity
and the Independent Order of Foresters."
As one of the wheel horses in the
movement for the propagation of the
gospel of fraf ernalism in the I nited
State and Canada, he was introduced as
one eminently well qualified to speak.
He made much of idealism in his prefa
tory remarks, but got down to cold facts
before closing. He proved to be a veri
table storehouse of information concern
ing the origin and growth of Independ
ent Forestry and challenged the closest
attention of his auditors. Mr. Mitchell
is an orator and his lofty presentation
of what Forestry stands for will not
soon be forgotten. Brotherhood was the
keynote of his appeal to Foresters for
more united co-operUion, a greater de
gree of faithfulness and more devotion
to the principles for which the order
stands.
. After the specehmaking the hall was
cleared of fables and chairs and for the
better part of two hours there was
plenty of relaxation for the delegates in
the form of an enjoyable dancing repertoire.
i NEUTRAL SHIPS
TORPEDOED
Resumption of Submarine
' Warfare by Germans
Is Indicated
BRITISH STEAMER
LOST "JER CAPTAIN
State Tcvrtment Informed
osh Outbreak of
Frightfulness
LARGE GAIN IN PUBLICITY.
CALLS DUNCAN SANE.
Dr. W. L. Wasson of State Hospital Tes
tifies in Rutland.
Rutland, Oct. 10. Taking the stand as
witness for the state in rebuttal, Dr.
W. L. Wasson, assistant superintendent
of the state hospital for insane at Wat
erbury testified vesterday in Rutland
county court that after hearing the ev
idence given during the entire trial and
assuming facts presented to bim in a
long hypothetical question to be true, he
would say thit George W. Duncan, who
is on trial for wife murder, was sane at
the time he shot Mrs. Duncan on Au
gust 5 last. Dr. Wan was on the
witness stand a long time and was eub-
ected to a long and severe cross exara
nation by the respondent's counsel. He
qualified as an expert with the state
ment that he had been associated with
he state institution 15 vears during
which time he had ab ut 3,0K) insanity
cases under his observation. !
The prosecution also introduced Tes-!
erday the evidence of Rutland men who.
know- Dunraii and who testified to ra-,
tional acts of the respondent just before j
and on the day of the shooting. There
Reported at Staie Library Meetings in
St. Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 10. The first ses
sion of the annual meetings of the Ver
mont Library association and the Ver
mont free library commission convened
at the St. Johnsbury Atheneiim at 8
o'clock last evening. The meeting was
called to order bv Pres. Miss Fannv
Fletcher of Proctorsvillc. The report of
tho library publicity committee shows
large gains in publicity during the year.
The latter part of the evening was de
voted to business.
The following oflir?r were elected to
day: President, Miss Fannie B. Fletch
er of Proctorsvillc ; first vice-president,'.
,r. o
physician, Dr. J. A. Wark of Barre; high
counsel, J. E. Barrows; auditors, frank
Caslani of Barre and F. H. Jervah of
West Derby; high orator, E. A. Aldcn of
Rutland; high organist, Miss Anna Rob
erts of West Pawlet; high senior wood
ard, W. E. Park of Wilder; high junior
woodard, J. T. Merrill of Island Pond;
high marshal, H. W. Chase of Burling
ton; high conductor, D. J. Lane of Poult
ney; high messenger, G. W. Fisher of
Newport; high senior beadle, A. J. Janes
of Bristol; high junior beadle, S. S.
Boucher of St. Albans; representatives
to the high supreme court, W. H. Yaw
of Knosburg Falls and W. O. Williams
of West Poultney; high journal secre
tary, J. ravero of Swanton.
The New Hampshire officers were
named in the following order: High
chief ranger, E. M. Bowker of White-
field; past high chief ranger. Dr. K. II.
Sylvain of Manchester; high vice chief
ranger, J. C. Bradbury of Berlin; high
treasurer, Charles Clarke of Berlin; high
secretary. Miss Bessie B. Bradbury of
Whiteficld; high physician, Dr. R. E.
Wolder of Whiteficld; high counsel (act
ing), Ijiicien Gosselin of Manchester;
high auditors, G. A. Burbank of Jeffer
son Meadow and E. L. Brock of Little
ton; high organist, Harold Trombley
of Littleton; high conductor. , O.
Bramford of Colebrook; high
' MONTPELIER SEMINARY
School Team Defeated Randolph "Aggies"
at Randolph.
Yesterday at the Randolph trotting
park the team representing the Randolph
agricultural school was defeated by
Montpelier esminary by the score of 20
to 7. The Randolph team averaged some
30 pounds more to the man than did the
seminary team, but in spite of that they
were several times held for downs by
the blue and white. The Aggie team is
almost entirely made up of green men,
which largely accounts for their weak
offensive strength, but they likewise
seemed able to fathom but a very few
of the seminary plays. Their material,
if developed, should give a much better
account of itself by the end of the season.
The seminary team displayed but little
real fotball except during the third peri
od when hmg end runs bv St. Marv and
Hatch and a series of line plunges by
Owen netted touchdowns for the semi
nary team. The seminary will need to
develop much greater offensive strength
than it showed vesterday, if it hopes to
defeat Spaulding next week.
Summary: Two 12 and two 10-minute
periods. Touchdowns Owen, Hatch, St.
Marv, Granai. Melbv. Goals kicked
Hatch 2, Melby. Referee Abel, U. V. M.
Umpire Powers. Head linesman Kibbe.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 19. De
spatches to tho state department to
day report the sinking of the British
steamer Kennett by a submarine and tho
landing of the body of her captain. Tho
steamer Dam la, presumably Norwegian,
was also reported sunk by an undersea
boat and the Swedish steamer Norma i
reported to have been disabled when her
propeller became entangled in nets
stretched to trap submarines.
London, Oct. 10. The sinking by a
German submarine, without examination,
of the Norwegian steamship Sten is re
ported by Reuter's Copenhagen corre-,
spondent. The crew were landed. The
Swedish hark Greta Yren was set afire
by a German submarine and her crew
were landed.
GERMANS WILL
DESTROY SHIPS
OF COMMERCE
Cologne Newspaper Declares that Sub
marines Will Operate On All Ship
ping Routes in Western
Atlantic.
Amsterdam, via London, Oct. 10. The
Volkszeitung of Cologne says that Ger
man submarines will operate in the fu
ture in the wet Atlantic. They will
visit all known shipping routes around
the eatern point of Nantucket island
and sink British merchantmen after giv
ing the crews opportunity to save them
selves. J he newspaper believes this ac
tivity will influence the supplying of
food, especially grain, bacon and lard, in
England.
VEILED THREAT
FROM GERMANY
That Sharper Submarine Campaign May
Be Inaugurated as Result of Arm
ing of British Merchant
men. ,
Berlin, Tuesday, via London, Thurs
day, Oct. 10 (delayed). Krieg-Zeif ung,
the evening edition of Lokal Amzeiger,
publishes a report that the British have
ordered the arming of all merchantmen
and says that as a result Germany may
be forced to take up a sharper submarine
campaign, with the consequent endan-
'jgering of German-American relations.
And
SENIOR SODALITY MET
Had Most Enjoyable Time
Supper and Entertainment.
with
WAS VISITING IN BARRE.
Mrs. Etta Richardson of Johnson Died
Yesterday Afternoon.
Mrs. Etta Richardson of Johnson, who
was visiting at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Klwin A. Williams at 131 Washing
ton street, passed away at 4 o'clock
Wednesday afternoon, the end following
a brief illness. Mrs. Richardson came
to the Williams home from Johnson
about a month ago. She was slightly ill
at the time, but her condition improved
...! u ...... ...... uQ
luu lb nn 11,11, uiii;i ici.ciinj piii. i-iict
was thought to be in danger. She was
The members of the Senior Sodality 71 v,"ars ,,ld- a native of Vermont and
of the Blessed Virgin Marv of St. Mon- ,r ,'., ", '
ica's church enjoved a pleasant social I "., r. '.lu',lr"'- T heophilus D. Richardson,
gathering at the "convent of the Sacred i1'1"1 -' -vpars " Th,,';e.ara
11,, ii, -m iiinuirB phi, 1,111. ,1. v.. uiiua
Heart on Summer street hist evening.
Sixty young ladies sat down to supper
in the annex room, which was beauti
fully decorated with the sodality colors,
white and green, and a profusinn of au
tumn leaves which added beauty to the
scene. The tables had all the appear
ance of a banquet, being tastily decorat
ed with flowers and ferns. Mirth and
good cheer prevailed throughout the sup
per
R
ladies, saying that he was pleased to see
them present in ,;uch large numbers and
hoped thev would continue loyal and
faithful members of the organization.
The entertainment committee of the
sodality having provided a literary and
musical program, the young ladies ad
journed to the Knights of Columbus hall,
where they enjoyed a pleifint social
evenirn?. 1 lie tollowinu nmsram was
of this city is a cousin and Mrs. Brown
of Montpelier is distantly related to tho
deceased.
Funeral services will be held at the
Williams home Friday afternoon at 2
o'clock. Rev. A. F. Gallup of Johnson,
will be the officiating clergyman. Rev.
Mr. Gallup is pastor of the Pentecostal
Nazarene church in Johnson, where tho
-er hour. At the close of the banquet. ! d' as aii attendant for soma
v. P. M. McKenna addressed the young j "- Interment ill be in Green Mount
ITIlll'U'l f I -tl t ' II t ' I I
BARRE GOLF CLUB uFFICERS.
Duncan McMillan Was Re-Elected Presi
dent Last Evening.
At the annual meeting of the Barre
Golf club, which was held in the court
room at city hall Inst evening. Duncan
McMillan was re-elected president and
i Other officers were elected as follows:
r ; , - v i i- l.... c t l ....... i -
. . ,,. . ,. , . John Cudhv of Manchester and Dr. Svl-
seTctarv-treasurcr, Miss Alice L. Eaton . ", - . ,
e w- . , , , . , . ; & n .mini m-sit-i.
of Woodstock; second vice-presidents, for
ini.,r I artistically rendered bv the several mem-
w.mdard. Mrs. Manrer of Berlin; high ' rrs or the organisation : I lanoson. . mi ss vice-president, A. P. Ablaut; secretary,
mihii .i.iriM.ii; in ii.im.ph. .M.T-p. i vt,-r Brown: treasurer, V . A. .Matnie-
White; vocal solo. Mis Alice Tyndall ; I gQn . rx,l(.ut jV(, ..(.mmittee, James Mac
piano solo. Mis I.or.iine Loranger; vo-ij. Hutchinson and James Rob
eal solo. Miss Rose Tomasi; recitation, That the club has closed a
Miss L.uaine Loranger: reading. Miss I H..,.,k,-11i season was indicated
marshal, A. Ia Miller of Manchester; high
messenger, W. L. Fletcher of Laconia;
high senior beadle, Joseph Guilmette of
Lisbon; high junior beadle. Major Rex of
kirham; supreme court representatives,
Rutland and Benningtipn counties, Miss
Vera If. Griffith of Danby; for Franklin,
Public Meeting Last Evening.
Upward of 600 people were in How-
lmoille and f.raml Isle, .Miss Anna I . in,i i,aii . veninir for the nnhli,
Mower of Morrisville; for Chittenden : mwtinp j which an interesting program
l" i ftf .. trtrr vaa interlnr,!ri with rum, v
and Aildison.
Gertrude Brady; piano solo. Miss Kath- i, -,.'',, f,om thc secretary, the treas-
li-en O'l.eary; piano selection, the Misses
Carroll; ocal solo encore. Miss Alice
Tvndall.
RAILROADS PAY TAXES.
Rutland R
R. Pays the Largest Amount
, to Vermont.
Transportation companies lining bus
ines in Vermont have psi.I into the
-ta;e treasury the taxes on their prop
erty for the six months ending June n".
I The tax amounts to 1'. per -ert on the
Miss Silvan Archibald
.Mi.lillehury; tor lirieans. Kssex anl .kol.-hes and vocal solos. At f. o'clock
Caledonia, Miss I.i.rie M. Sargent of . numbers of the Barre court served a
Newport; for Windham and Windor, I KoRi;ft ovster luncheon to 2'XI Fores-
Mrs. Nellie M. Plantier of Bellows Fall"; ,,, j j" the time intervening before
for Washington and Orange, Mis B rtha i ,i rn-i nainment hour, there were in-
Joslyn of Waterbury. j forma! conferences on important matters
. (that bad arisen during the day. Much-
"LUDICROUS FICTION" business of a routine nature had been ; Hppriis,-d valuation of th
transacted at the afternoon session and ; Rmlan 1 nilroad appraised
la the Way British Treat German Story: '"' rn'1 of thf ""'P,10 Vf -,",mc "0oo. pay t'.e hbhe-t t;.x. ?n; f-r
. n,m. in7.nii. B.il tm f'X-euoon. wh"n delegates were the v.-ar an ! the t . viral Wrm-tit i
of Damare in Zeppelin Raid. j ,he guests of the Barre Board of Trade. Uoeond w ith 1o.hv. ) a... a t.n of
Lonilon. Oct. If. The press bureau ap- j the Foresters were ready for buines. . 12;,.(s. The Connecticut & P:i unip-ie
l-emis a note to a Reuti-r d-patch r- I Adjournment was taken in the late aft-jRiter Co. pay a yearly t f
reived from Amsterdam relative to the ernoon and the delegates repaired immc- ! ihe Montpcli r i Wells R ver
alleged "g-ganl ic damage" done in Kng- ; diately to How land hall, where the sup-' 2 .V: the 1'mr'e A M- 7 7'
land bv the Zeppelin raids of Sent. i1 . per was s-rted. II he Barre A Mont l ! 1 r Tru, ; 1 .n A P-w-
probability that the jury may get and Oct. 1. when -slre such state- Kdward J. dimming of Littleton. X- er Co. i st-praii at Jlo.""-' and pay
nrer and the tournament committee. It
is planned ti hold the annual banquet
sometime in March. 1!'17, when plans for
net season uill legin to take shape.
Announcement was made of the trophy
winners among the lady competitors in
ihe season'- events and the following;
members were pic-iunated as winners:
I .allies' annual. Mrs. C A. Dodge; ladies'
championship. Mis Ad. lie Averill; ladies
weekly tournament. Miss Mary Carleton,
FITZGERALD TO STICK,
at
the rase late Thursday.
ments to be "ludicrous fiction."
II, the high chief ranger of the Vermont a tax of j J.'.J.j.
r.-a t. tne; Decides to Kerrum as uanaiaate lor u.
ll-ol0- S. Senate.
Rnston. O-t. in. ,Iohn F. Fitzgerald,
Democratic nominee for the I nited
st:. S nlr, who announced a few
fia t!i it he ready to w ithdraw
"it it is to tiie advantage of lresideut
U ii-on and the lieniocratie ticket," de.
.Me.! last riht to remain in the race,
H:s ,!".-i-i.-n wa announced after a eon
lerenve wiUi pity leaders.
