4 .....
mm.
i "c
f.S
i -
: o
f5:
VOL. XXVIII
HOOD RIVER, OREGON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 191 G
No. 21
Fresh Candies and Chocolates
Treasurer Box $1.50
Triads No. 1 : 1.00
Triads No. 0 SOc
Extraordinary No. 1 l.OO
Extraordinary No. 0 . SOc
Blue Ribbon No. 1 75c
Parrot Stick Candies : lOc and 25c
Crystalized Ginger
Pay twenty-five dollars
for your next suit of clothes.
Pay that much to insure better, longer wearing
fabrics; a touch of style that stands out from the
crowd; tailoring that has taken a little more time to
finish off the fine points; and pay twenty-five to find
out how fine a fit is possible in ready-to-wear clothes
KUPPENHEIMER
CLOTHES at
offer a man real true, through and through satis
faction. We like to sell them at this price.
J. G. VOGT
The Fashion
To and from Parkdale are running on changed schedule.
Automobile now leaves HoodRiver daily at four o'clock
instead of four-thirty. Cars leave Parkdale daily at seven
thirty a. m. except on Sunday. Parkdale-Hood River trips
are made every Saturday night, machine leaving at six-thirty.
Travel right, when seeing the Mid-Columbia district and
tell your visiting friends about the excellent service of
The Fashion Stables
Telephone 1201 Hood River, Ore.
NEW ARRIVALS OF
"Good Things to Eat"
Bonner's Seedless Raisins, 2 packages 25c
White Figs in bulk, 1 2ic lb. Candied Citron 30c lb.
English Walnuts 25c lb. Dill Pickles 20c doz.
Fancy English Cookies 30c lb. Cranberries 1 5c lb.
AT:
Star Grocery
"GOOD THINGS
Johnston's from Milwaukee
KRESSE DRUG CO Rexall Store
EASTMAN KODAKS AND SUPPLIES, VICTOR VICTROLAS AND RECORDS
Come In and Hear the New October Records
Stables Cars
Perigo & Son
TO EAT"
Brazil Nuts, No. 1 . $1.00
Chocolate Nuts, assorted No. 1... l .OO
Quintette..-. 1.25
That Package 1.25
Innovation No. 1 . 85c
Innovation No. 0 . 45c
Fenway Wafers, assorted flavors ....5c Roll
30cand50c ?
WE FURNISH
Fishing and Hunting Licenses
We are showing a full line
of the famous hand made
Shakespeare Fishing Goods.
Don't cost you any more
than the other kind.
A large assortment of new
and second hand rifles offer
ed at wholesale cost.
Sporting Goods
Lawn Tennis, Baseball, Cro
quet, Golf the proper goods
for any game.
Tennis and Baseball Shoes.
Wading Boots.
Our Furniture Department -was never so fiC! rtf bargains
5 allowed for cash on lowest market prices.
Stewart Hardware
DO IT
Now is the time to buy that Fall suit while our
stock is complete.
Absolutely the largest stock of fine woolens to
select a suit of all wool cloth.
Over fifteen hundred samples to select from.
Also bear in mind we make these suits in Hood
River, tailored in the latest fashions. Pinchbacks
as well as English, and the ever popular Boxbacks,
made for you and to fit you.
Dale & Meyer
108 Third Street
Tailors to Men
Chapter 10 of the Interesting Serial Story
"How Hood River Came Back"
Being a record of the deposits of the Butler
Banking Company for the first ten months of this
year as compared with last year.
DEPOSITS 1915 DEPOSITS 191 INCREASE
Jan. 1, $393,635.99 Jan. 1, $404,927.36 $11,281.37
Feb. 1, 375,760.74 Feb. 1, 385,213.81 9,453.17
Mar. 1, 375,000.25 Mar. 1, 415,367.29 40,367.04
Apr. 1, 388,597.50 Apr. 1, 456,45495 67,857.45
May 1, 366,693.30 May 1, 411,855.46 45,16116
June 1, 406,021.99 June 1, 459,869.43 53,847.44
July 1, 439,782.81 July 1, 445,329.68 5,547.87
Aug. 1, 410,503.88 Aug. 1, 449,841.83 48,337.95
Septl, 394,283.80 Sept.l 433,923.71 38,639.91
Oct 1, 398,88201 Oct 1, 456,320.93 57,438.92
The Franklin air cooled
car eliminates nearly 200
parts as useless, except to
create repair bills.
Easiest riding car made.
Most economical in gasoline,
32.8 miles to gallon.
1050 on 1 gallon oil.
12,000 miles on set tires.
Lubricating Oils
We carry 30 kinds of oil.
The correct oil for any pur
poseask for the right oil
for it is often one-half the
price of & kind not suited
to the need.
& Furniture Co.
NOW
Tailors to Women
RECORD AUTO
TRIPJS MADE
CLOUD CAP REACED BY BREAKFAST
Ralph Caldwell Drives Dodge Over Steep
Road Through Diversity of
Mountain Scenery
A time record for the 66 mile round
trip from Hood River to Cloud Cap Inn
wis made recently by Ralph Caldwell,
rancher of the Ode II district, accom
panied by Harry T. DeWitt, of the Co
lumbia Auto & Machine Co., J. B.
Canfield and the writer. In the'last
light of a full moon juBt settling down
in the Columbia gorge, all except Mr.
Caldwell left Hood River, where at the
O.-W. K. & N. station the elevation is
101 feet, at 5.60 o'clock. The journey
out to the ranch was made in a brand
new Dodge. Mr. Caldwell, however,
was ready with his machine, a Dodge
purchased this summer and driven.
when the Cloud Cap Inn trip was be
gun, a total distance of 3,644 miles.
At 8.30 o'clock to the minute the
party bad arrived at Cloud Cap Inn,
making the best time that has ever
been reported for the long steep drive.
The machine had traveled 28 miles
horizontally and had reached an eleva
tion of approximately 6,000 feet, a
climb of more than a mile in the 28.
The total climb for the last five miles
was 3,600 feet, and more than 2,000
feet of this in the last three miles.
Except for their grades, however, the
roads are good. Mark Weygandt, guide
at Cloud Cap Inn, says that during his
14 years service in the position, he has
never seen the toll road, connecting
the hostelry with the Hood River Val
ley highways at the edge of the
National Forest, better than at the
present time. Rains fell at the high
altitude almost weekly throughout the
summer months, and now, the surface
of the road, well packed and free from
dust, is even and free from chuckholes.
Patches of autumntime moisture may
be seen dotting the way, and the only
objection that a motorist can advance
is the excessive grade.
' Yet the long pulls with their fre
quent sharp curves did not trouble Mr.
Caldwell and hia Dodge in the least.
Mr. Caldwell says be was a Kansas
corngrower before he came here to
turn bis attention to apple eulture.
One watching him make bis automo
bile perform, may easily imagine that
he would have made a successful driver
of race horses, that is, if be would
think as much of the horse as he does
of his automobile. Mr. Caldwell loves
his machine.
"1 like to hear the engine respond
and talk to me on the steep grades,"
he said, "it seems that it knowa just
what 1 want . it to do. I eare for my
own machineand I think, ihere would
be fewer accidents if every motorist
cared for his own car, and knew its
fine points and its weaknesses. I go
over my machine before and after
every trip, and know that every pin
and every nut is in just the right
place."
And it is true thai bis Dodge and he
seemed to have a perfect understand
ing. But three stops between the
Odell ranch place and Cloud Cap Inn
were made, and these not because ol
trouble but for the purpose of securing
pictures and that Mr. Caldwell might
show bow he could make his machine
perform on the 26 per cent grades.
The driver shifted his gears on the
steep points apparently without losing
the least momentum. He came to a
dead stop on the stepest point and
started again without the least lurch
ing and as easily as though the weight
were dragged on upward by some un
seen force. When the car reached the
level to the south of Cloud Cap Inn
the radiator cap was removed to abow
that not over a pint of water had been
consumed. The water had not got
sufficiently hot to bubble from the
overflow pipe, and the radiator was
so cool that one could rest his hand on
it. In fact the morning was clear and
crisp. Heavy frost appeared on fallen
logs and roadside vegetation. Oiant
fcicles were seen hanging from the
flumes of irrigation systems, and the
passengers wished that the radiator
had been a little warmer and more
comfortable to their shivering bodies.
After an hour spent at the Inn, in
specting the new home of the Portland
Snowshoeclub and making photograhps
of the mountain landscapes, the return
journey was begun. A stop of SO min
utes was made at Mount nuoo ioage,
and a five minute delay took place at
Parkdale, where the party secured a
supply of chocolate to alleviate the
Sangs of appetites sharpened by the
een mountain air. The early atart
had caused all to forego the usual
hearty breakfast. The starting point
in Hood River was reached at
12:10 p.m.
A morning journey such as that
taken by the party accompanying Mr.
Caldwell forms one of the red letter
events of a man's life. And the thing
that keeps bobbing up in the mind of
the fortunate man who had been priv
ileged to aee the mountains and range-
sides in their autumnal splendor ia the
wonder why resort keepers do not
make more of the asset that Nature
has so prodigally provided. The views
from mountain heights of the Cascades
are never more beautiful or appealing
than during the season of Indian Sum
mer. Of course the ever suspended
threat of rains and bad weather pre
vails after September has begun. Yet
on most seasons a majority ef the days
of autumn are inviting in the Mid-
Columbia. The air seems cleared and
one's vision becomes broader after the
frost has fallen. Overnight the great
florae sides, lying in landscape views
of 60 mile lengths, msgnitudes almost
beyond comprehension unless you have
seen them from such points as that at
the loot ol cooper a spur, lake on a
riot of color. The dogwood trees turn
scarlet in places and at other points
seem almost royal purple. The acre
patches of vine maple form so much
space of highly colored flame, aa the
early morning sun strikes them, ine
brown mossy growths on lava backs,
where lichens find root in the disinte
grating masses intermingle with gray
and somber crags and predominant ia
the deep green and blue stillness of
the many square miles of forests.
At an elevation a mile above sea
level one risea above tbe smoke that
blura the landscape down at city level
From tbe foot of Cooper's Spur, the
sreat peaks of Adams. Ranier md St.
Helens seem chiseled in the blue of the
sky. A small triangular mirror off to
tbe west, the guide tells you is Lost
Lake. You see patches of base down
in tbe lower levels of the valleys and
arouna points most thickly habited.
Ihis ia the amoke so offensive when
you are trying to exhibit the splendors
of the Mid-Columbia district to some
visitor from afar. Columns of gray
smoke reach upward to the heavens
from many points on the horison.
These are slashing fires. Forest
rangers are freeing tbe great forests
from a possible menace of tbe coming
year at points logged off the past sea
son by lumber companies. And at
your back is presented a view such as
to enthrsll and bold you for an entire
day old Mount Hood at close range.
Its glaciers and the seamed sides of
1,000 feet deep precipices are aa clear
cut aa a cameo held in your hand and
viewed through a reading glass.
Straight lines form a scar down some
almost vertical snowfield. These are
alidea made by bouldera of ton weight
picked up by aome sudden avalanche.
From the elevation of Hood River,
Mount Hood, with the dying moonlight
on her snowfields, seemed as ephemeral
to the party beaded for her anowfields
aa aome ghost. The light of the moon
gave way to that of the rising sun,
and first the very tip was illuminated
with a golden, pinkish halo, as though
the earth were aome vast theatre and
a spotlight had been directed at this
point, while all the rest of the world
was in shadow. The sunlight, with a
speed almost possible to detect slowly
ascended from the summit to the baae
of tbe mountain, and tbe great jagged
masa took on new tone and color. A
veil seemed to have been removed
from the mountain, and Hood stood
forth in a violet hue. gradually turning
to amethystine fairly dassling. Then
came the rosetints and aa tbe sun roBe
higher these were dispersed, and the
mountains, snow and glaciers took on
tbe whiteness of Italian marble.
Tbe 28 mile ride to Cloud Cap Inn
before breakfast on an autumn morn
ing, when the erisp air brings thrills
of exhilaration and causea one to make
a resolution never again to be lazy.
carries tbe participant through as
great a diversity of scenes, perhaps as
may be round on any. ride of equal
length in the world. Despite the early
hour, when one leaves Hood River, he
leavea behind the bustle of a commer
cial world. Eager to get their crops
to sales agency warehouses, Hood
River Valley orchardists are already
unloadng their product at receiving
stations in the city and are awaiting
shipments of boxes. A mile out in the
country, come the scenes of apple
harvest itself. The tent dwellings of
pickers are beginning to take on life.
Sleepy eyed men are washing in baaina
at their tent doors, the smoke curls
up from a breakfast stove fire at a
ranch house. A milkmaid ia Been busy
with her cows. The road is free to
you after a few miles out.
Then you reach tbe mora remote sec
tions. Birds are taking their morning
meals from tbe seeds of roadside
plants. A bluejay screams as you
dart by. Less than a mile from a
farmhouse a big bobcat hurries across
the highway and climbing a leaning
tree blinks wonderingly at you. Then
you leave civilization, penetrating the
national forest And the last five
miles of the road to Cloud Cap Inn
lies through a virgin wilderness. Tbe
trees are green, the upper branches
covered with a short, gray moss pecul
iar to the high altitudes, except for a
short stretch burned over probably a
half century ago. Here the stumps
bleached by the snows of a half a hun
dred years have caused the area to be
known as "The Ghost f orest." The
morning sunlight dances merrily
through tbe forest vistas, and at
intervals you catch sight of the daz
zling sides of your goal, the snow fields
of Mount Hood.
At Cloud Cap Inn you break into tbe
open, tbe very timber line is reached.
Here the firs give way to mountain
pines, windswept and gnarled, in
more protected spots, the nut bearing
pines may be seen lifting themselves
erect, and chipmunks and birds that
you perhaps do not know may be seen
quarreling and harvesting the crop,
much aa you may buy in the market,
nuts that have come from the ridges
of tbe Rockies or down in old Mexico,
where the peons make a livlibood from
tbe sale of tbe pine seeds. Ea route
you have seen the path of a giant
cougar, where he crossed the road,
imbedding his mighty paws in tbe sort
earth. Off on a ridge, perhaps two
miles away, but to your vision in tbe
rarified atmosphere not 200 yards, a
bear emerges in tbe open, be scratches
up a rotting log, stealing tbe cache of
winter nuts put there by some ener
getic squirrel, the guide tells you.
You are only za miles irom town ana
yet as far removed to the wilds of
nature as is possible In the United
States.
Sunday Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Moe, ac
companied by their daughters, Frances
and Florence, and their guest of tbe
week end, Mrs. D. W. Wade, of Wasco,
motored to Cloud Cap Inn. Mr. Moe
drove his big six cylinder Reo, wbicb
took tbe long, steep grades with per
fect ease. The party spent a portion
of the day in the vicinity of the Inn,
exploring the aide of Eliot glacier and
viewing the surrounding country from
high points.
"I have never enjoyed any trip more
than that to Cloud Cap Inn," asys Mrs.
Wade. "The panoramas from there
are wonderful, and tbe coloring of the
Upper Valley foliage, aeen en route,
ia magnificent."
Mrs. Hidden Here Monday Night
Mrs. M. L. T. Hidden, candidate for
the legislature from Multnomah county,
delivered an address here Mondsy night
in tbe interest of the Woodrow Wilson
campaign. Tbe next local Wilson
League speaker will be Senator Geo.
Chamberlain, who will address the
other on the evening of Thursday, Oc
tober 26.
Mrs. Hidden was introduced by J. H.
Hazeltt. chairman of the local Demo
cratic Central committee.
tbe nation, and then he cited out tbe
expenditures that .had been made
Officeholder have been increased, be
declared, to tbe number of 30,000, and
aalariea have increased S4O.OO0.UW..
"Leaving aside the expenditures for
preparedness, which every one will
admit is proper." said Senator Fulton,
"tbe appropriations of the Democratic
administration bave exceeded by
$168,000,000 those of any past admin is
tration."
Senator Fulton closed bis address
with a telling criticism of the adminis
tration in its handling of tbe relatione
with Mexico.
LARGE CROMD
HEARSFULTON
EX-U. S. SENATOR ARRAIGNS WILSON
Broken Party Pledges Pointed Out
Adamson Bill Called Campaign
Movement
"I waa told today by a man who had
been doing aome figuring," aaid ex
Seantor Chas. W. Fulton, who ad
dressed one of the largest political
gatherings of the year at Heilbronner
hall here Saturday night, "that if the
Adamson tight Hour Law goes into
effect, the increase in freight ratea
win cost you 1U cents more per box to
transport your apples to eastern
markets.
Ex-Senator Fulton, who waa intro
duced by Roy D. Smith, State Central
Kepubiican Committeeman from Hood
River county, spent more than an hour
and a half arraigning the present ad
ministration and pointing out the fal
se ies of the policies of President Wil
son. Prefacing hia address by a con
gratulation to tbe women of Oregon on
having received the privilege of the
ballot, which he declared would lead to
a betterment of political conditions, be
plunged immediately into the dominant
issues of the campaign now confront
ing the voters of tbe United States.
Senator Fulton declarea that the'
three gravest charges he had to make
against the administration were : first,
the evident utter incapacity of the
Democrats to conduct the finances and
business of the government along
sound lines, which he declared waa in
a large measure responsible for tbe
ever increasing high cost of living;
secondly, that the present administra
tion had been absolutely false to plat
form and campaign promises, a state
ment substantiated by tbe records of
the administration themselves; and
thirdly, that the administration had
proven utterly imcompetent to direct
the foreign affairs and relations.
Senator Fulton declared the protec
tive tariff a necessary cornerstone for
the business interests and welfare of
the nation. He attacked tbe Under
wood, so called Free Trade tariff bill
with telling statements. Comparing
the 10 months under Republican tariff
just previous to the passage of the
Underwood bill with tbe 10 months
periond following the passage of tbe
act, he pointed out that imports had
fallen off to such an extent that the
balance of trade against this nation
reached tbe gigantic figure of more
than $202,000,000.
"Aa a result of the tariff," declared
Senator Fulton, "we saw a condition
that allowed 360,000 freight cars go
nto sheda in idleness and to rust, and
the bank clearings of America dropped
$20,000,000,000 during the 10 months.
Woolen goods imports from England
increased over 400 per cent. Boots
and shoe imports doubled and cotton
goods, imported, increased 80 per cent.
'The great Luropean war prevented
a stupendous panic, and yet it took at
this great war and the withdrawal of
20,000,000 men from the industries of
European countries over a year to stay
the depression that was reaching out
its hand and enveloping this country.
Champ Clark, a few weeks aso, in a
campaign speech in Maine, declared
that as a result of the Democratic
administration's policies, this country,
not Bince it was discovered by Colum
bus, had ever seen such a widespread
prosperity. Let us trust in God that it
will never see such a prosperity again.
Republican prosperity is not accom
plished because of widow's tears, nor
has it ever been accompanied by a
dirge.
'What will we do when the war is
over. It ia not going to last forever,
thank God. The people of Europe
have been schooled in the severest
economy ever thrust on any peoples in
any ages, and with the return or the
warring masses to seek their aban
doned trade and to take up their indus
tries, we will see the depression under
tbe Democatic policies doubled.
Senator rulton then turned his at
tention to broken party pledges and
forgotten platform planks. He cited
tbe recommendation of the single term
for the presidency, as adopted at the
Baltimore convention.
"In less than a month," declared the
speaker, "Woodrow Wilson was using
every means of bis high otnee to se
cure the renomination. Only a few
weeka ago he was confronted by the
threatened railroad strike, and he sur
rendered the whole power of tbe gov
ernment rather than take the chance
of losing votes. I do not believe that
President Wilson ever really thought
that a strike would take place. He
didn't believe that such a law could
ever be put into effect, and the pur
poses of the law were postponed until
January 1, 1917, until after the elec
tion. Suppose Buch a law could be put
into effect. If such a law as the
Adamson Eight Hour Law can be im
posed on the American people, then
legislators may also pass a bill that
will regulate the amount that laborers
are to receive. When such a condition
prevails the American worktngman is
in truth a slave."
Amid cheers, Senator Fulton com
pared Charles Evans Hughes with
President Wilson. He cited his refusal
to accept the nomination until the de
mand for him became widespread.
"The masses of the people found in
him a man whose heart was beating in
accord with tbe great inspirationa and
purposes of the American people," de
clared Senator Fulton, "and bis nomi
nation was unanimous, and tben what
do we see. Doea Charles Evans Hughes
make any effort to use that great office
of his to further his political fortunes?
No. He tenders bis resignation. He
steps down and ia on a plane with any
common citizen."
Senator Fulton cited aa another
broken pledge of Democracy, tbe re
peal of the bill permitting coastwise
vessels to use the Panama canal free
of toll.
"President Wilson and hia closest
supporters have never been able to ex
plain thia move," he declared. They
talk about a treaty with England. I
do cot know that Wilson and bis party
hoped to benefit the great transconti
nental railway systems, when the law
waa repealed. 1 will leave that for
voters to judge. I do know, and you
can aee that thia class and this inter
est alone waa benefitted by the repeat
of the bill."
Senator Fulton pointed out the
pledge of the Democratic platform of
112 to return to an economy befitting
