1796
1916
VOL LVII1. NO. 239
POPUlAT'-r-8,219
llflBWIPU rnm imcnwrennv nnmnm
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
i v wun ...jjiuiv iiuiuiiwii,. iunm., mtuittouHii uuiuDCn .. f) laio rAUCJ- OU Jixu. w...
The Bulletin's Circulation in fich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largestn Connecticut in Proportion to; the City's Population
RUMANIANS GAIN
I TRANSYLVANIA
What Has Been Achieved by the Rumanians in Bul
garia Remains Uncertain
FIGHTING FROM CONSTANZA TO THE DANUBE
An Unofficial Despatch From Rome Says That Field Marshal
von Mackensen Has Ordered the Evacuation of the
Dobrudja Fortresses Recently Captured by the Teutonic
Allies Violent Fighting Has Been in Progress in Rus
sia, West of Lutsk, and in Galicia in the Region of the
Zlcta Lipa River, With Little Advantage to Either of the
Contestants Heavy Rains Are Interfering With the
Activities of the British and French Armies in the Somme
Region of France.
Although the Rumanians continue to
gain ground against the Austro-Ger-nians
at various points in Transyl
vania, the situation in Dobrudja,
which has attained added interest
since the crossing of the Danube into
Bulgaria by Rumanian forces, re
mains uncertain.
Bucharest says that violent fighting
continue? all along the line south of
the railroad running from Constanza
to the Danube, with the Teutonic al
lies offering stubborn resistance to the
Rumanian and Russian forces. Noth
ing is vouchsafed, however, concerning
the troops which invaded Bulgaria.
Sofia says that only "several bat
talions" of Rumanians made their way
across the river and Berlin reports
the destruction behind them by Ger
man monitors of the pontoon bridges
over which they made the passage.
An unofficial despatch from Rome
asserts that Field Marshal von Mack
ensen has ordered the evacuation of
the Dobrudja fortresses of Silistria and
Turtukai, recently captured by the
Teutonic allies, in the fear of their be
ing enveloped by the Rumanians.
Heavy rains are interfering with the
activities of the British and French
armies in thi? Somme region of France,
but nevertheless . Paris records the
cnpture of an important trench north
of Rancourt and the taking cf addi
tional prisoners, while London says
the fighting at Eaucourt 1 Abbaye "is
proceeding satisfactorily."
Violent fighting has been in pro
gress in Russia, west of Lutsk, and in
Galicia in the region of the Zlota Lipa
river. In the latter region, according
to Petrograd, neither the Russians nor
the Teutonic allies hove been able to
gain any marked advantage. West of
Lutsk, according to Petrograd, the
Russians made advances but Berlin
reports all attacks here were repulsed,
COUNT VON BERNSTORFF TO
CALL ON PRESIDENT WILSON
!t is Understood He Will Present a
Personal Letter From Emperor Will
iam. Long Branch. N. J., Oct. 3. Count
Von riernstorff, German ambassador to
tlio United St'. -will call on Presi
dent Wilson !.c" ' ri't Monday, it was
imnnunred tonight :;;-re Mr. Wilson
started on his . merit -trip at 8.30
o'clock. It is understood xh-" ambas
sador will present to Mr. Wilson a
personal letter from the German em
reior replying to autograph messag
es sent by the president to the rulers
of several European nations urging
that a method be agreed upon for
getting relief supplies to starving peo
ple in Poland. It has been been re
ported that the German reply does
not tend to bring about an agreement.
The entente allies have, taken the po
sition that they will allow the ship
ment of supplies to Poland if food al
ready there is not shipped out or
utilized by German and Austrian
troops. This position has not met
with favor from the German and Aus-tro-IIungariar.
governments.
It is probable that when all the re
plies to the president'3 letters have
been received the correspondence will
fce made public.
The contemplated visit here of
Count Von Bernstorff revived reports
of possible moves for peace in Europe
or of a resumption of Germany's sub
marine warfare. Ambassador Gerard
is now on his way home from Ber
lin. So far as could be established
here tonight, however, the coming of
the German ambassador to Shadow
Lawn has no connection with either of
these reports.
OIL IS USELESS AS A
PREVENTIVE OF FOG
Proven by Experiments of Naval Ves
sels Along New England Coast.
Washington, Oct. S. Prevention of
fog at sea in the vicinity of a vessel
cannot be accomplished by the distri
bution of oil on tne surface of the
water. Reports of experiments along
this line, as recommended by th3 nav
s.1 hydrographic office, indicate that
such distribution of oil had no notice
able effect on the fog. Four report
fro mnaval vessels along the Main and
Massachusetts coasts and on the Dela
war river show oil is useless in the di
minishing or preventing fog. Off Ma
rous Hook, Pa,, where there are a
number o oil establishments, the U.
S. S. Millville on her trial trip ran In
to a dense fog. Her captain reported
that there was a thick film oil on the
water for miles around but the ship
tvua fog-bound 12 hours.
Imports of Gold.
Washington, Oct. 3. Gold imported
'mto the United States from January 1
to September 22 amounted to $384,
150,000, the federal reserve board an
nounced today, while in the same pe
riod the exports were $93,000,000. In
the same period last year the im-1
ports exceeded the axoorts bv J247.171.-
the Russians suffering exceptionally
heavy casualties. In the attacks, says
Berlin, which were preceded by ter
rific bombardments, the Russian
guard made seventeen unsuccessful on-
; slaughts and another division twelve.
As regards the fighting in Mace
donia, Sofia admits that the heavy ar
tillery fire of the Serbs in the region
of Kaimakcalm Height caused the
Bulgarians to withdraw to the Mog Le
hica calley in order to avoid unneces
sary losses, but asserts htat entente
attacks alsewhere along the front were
repulsed.
Berlin records an advance by the
Austro-Germans against the British
who recently crossed the Struma
northwest of Lake Tahinos, while un
official advices from Paris say the
Bulgarians have abandoned several
positions in the Starkov Grob River
region and that four towns northwest
of Fiorina in Greece have been occu
pied by the entente allies.
In Albania, according to an Athens
despatch, the Austrian military au
thorities have occupied Argyro Cas
tro, having ordered the Greek military
officials there to evacuate the town.
Except for the capture by the Itali
ans of two iofty peaks held - by-- the
Austrians and a continuation of the
heavy bombardment by the Austrians
of the Carso front in the hands of the
Italians, there has been little activity
in the Austro-Italian theatre.
The Greek situation continues to de
velop. King Constantine, according to
an Athens despatch, has in his hands
the resignation of the members of the
cabinet except those of the premier
and the foreign minister. It is prob
ab'e that the new cabinet wil Icon
tain several supporters of Former
Premier Venizelos who is in favor of
Greece's entry into the war cn the
side of the entente allies.
PREDICTS FOUR WESTERN
STATES ARE GOING DRY
Optimistic View by the Prohibition
Candidate for President.
Omaha, Neb., Oct. 3. At least fouh
western states are going dry this year
and no state will weaken its dry laws,
J. Frank Hanly, the prohibition can
didate for president, declared today
upon entering Nebraska's hot wet and
dry fight. Hanly urged that in the
face of this record Nebraska could ill
afford to vote wet not onlv for her
own sake, but fof the effect the action
would have on the national situation.
"South Dakota and Montana are go
ing dry," Hanly . said. "Utah will
elect a dry legislature. Idaho will
ratify its dry amendment. Washing
ton, Oregon, Arizona and Colorado will
either strengthen their dry laws or
decline, to weaken them. In Califor
nia the wet and dry forces are en
gaged in a death struggle. Nevada
may vote on the question next year."
The candidate's optimistic resume
of the western situation evoked ap
plause wherever he used it.
RELAXING PRECAUTIONS
ON INFANTILE PARALYSIS
25 Health Officers in New York, Bal
timore and Philadelphia Withdrawn
Washington, Oct. 3. Notification by
the public health service to state
health authorities of children under 16
leaving New York and Baltimore, in
stituted during the infantile paralysis
epidemic, was discontinued today and
twenty-five health officers who have
been fighting the disease in New York,
Baltimore and Philadelphia were with
drawn. In announcing this action
health service authorities let it be
known that they considered further
efforts on their part unnecessary, but
as a precaution three officers in New
York and one in Philadelphia will re
main at their posts for the present.
The notification system was put in
to effect July 15. Health officials here
today said it proved a great aid in
preventing spread of the disease.
Through it state health authorities
were informed of the coming " of all
children who might have contracted
but had not yet developed the disease.
NEW YORK'S PERSONAL
PROPERTY ASSESSMENT
Totals $1,100,973,215 List Includes
T 78,459 Persons and Corporations.
New York, Oct. 3. The city's ten
tative personal property assessment
for 1917, according to an announce
ment today by the department of taxes
and assessments, totals $1,100,973,215.
The tentative tax for 1916 was $3,
700,000,000 but of this enormous total
the city succeeded in collecting on
only $376,530,150, the difference hav
ing been sworn off.
Although a shrinkage of the new
list is a foregone conclusion, accord
ing to tax officials, it is not expected
that it will be as pronounced as this
year.s because of the lower tentative
assessment.
The new list includes 78,459 (persona
ana corporations.
Cabled Paragraphs
Japanese Cabinet About to Resign
Tokio, Oct 3. The Nichi Nichi
Shimbun in an extra edition an
nounces that the cabinet of Premier
Count Okuma has decided to resign.
The premier Is said to have stated
that he would recommend to the em
peror the appointment of Viscount Ta
kaski Kato as bis successor.
British Raid Over Belgium.
London, Oct. 3, 2.85 j. m. British
naval aeroplanes yesterday made an
other attack on the German airship
sheds in the vioinity of Brussels, ac
cording to a British official statement
Issued this afternoon. One of the
British aeroplanes was lost.
MARKED INCREASE IN
THE COST OF LIVING
Reports Received From the Principal
Market Centers.
Washington, Oct. 3. Marked in
crease in the cost of living in shown
in the rising tendency of prices of
foodstuffs on October 1, reports of
which are just being received at the
department of agriculture from the
principal market centers.
With flour selling higher than at any
time since the Civil war, due princi
pally to the shortage of the wheat
crop, this year, the cost of potatoes
has mounted for like reason. Meat
continues to advance with prices al
most 24 per cent, over a year ago. But
ter, eggs and cheese all are selling
higher than last year and beans show
and increase of more than 70 per cent.
because of the short crop. Onions are
more than 50 per cent, higher and
cabbages more than 40 per cent, high
er. Butter was selling about 12 per cent,
higher than a year ago, according to
.tie latest statistics available today at
the department of agriculture. The
price was one cent a pound higher
than it had been in the last eight years
at this time of the year.
Eggs were selling five cents a doz
en higher than last year but was low
er for the period than in several of
the last eight years.
Potatoes were selling 116 per cent,
higher than a year ago.
Cheese showed an inccrease in price
of more than 25 per cent, over a year
ago and was higher than it had been
in the last eight years.
Hogs were selling 25 per cent, high
er than a year ago, beef cattle more
than 7 per cent, higher, veal calves
more than 10 per cent, higher; sheep
more than 8 ped cent, higher and
lambs more than 20 per cent, higher.
RESIGNATION OF GREEK
CABINET IN HANDS OF KING
Effort Will be Made to Give the New
Ministry a National Character.
Athens, Noon, via London, 10:25 p.
m. The resignations of all the cabinet
ministers except the premier, Nikolas
Kalogeropoulos, and the minister Gf
foreign affairs, Alexandre Carapanes',
are now in the hands of the ng.-The'
cabinet will be arranged probably so
that several supporters of M. Venize
los. the former premier, will hold port
folios, thus giving the new ministry a
national character.
Orders have been issued to the roy
alist newspapers to cease attacking M.
Venizelos in view of the co-operation
of his adherents with the new govern
ment. ENGLAND SEIZES GOLD
FROM AN AMERICAN
Naturalized Citizen Reports $10,000
Taken from Him at Kirkwall.
New York, Oct. 3. Hans Lagerslof,
an American citizen of Swedish par
entage, who arrived today on the
Swedish -American line steamship
Stockholm, from Gothenberg and
Kirkwall, reported that on the out
ward passage of the steamship he had
been held at Kirkwall by the British
port authorities and $10,000 in gold
which he carried was seized.
Lagerslof said that the gold was
taken from him on the suspicion that
he was bringing it to Germany. Al
though finally permitted to return to
this country, Lagerslof declared that
his money has not been restored to
him.
FRANCE ENROLLING YOUNG
MEN OF THE CLASS OF 1918
Action Taken Preapratory to Their
Being Called to the Colors.
Paris, Oct. 3, 5:15 p. m. A memo
randum attached to a bill Introduced
in the chamber of deputies by the
minister of war. General Roques, au
thorizing the enrollment of the young
men of the class of 1918 preparatory
of their being called to the colors, ex
plains that the military instruction of
the class of 1917 is about completed.
The youths of the class of 97 were
enrolled upon their reaching the age
of 18. When the members of the class
of 1918 are enrolled they will be six
months older than the preceding class
and will not be actually incorporated
into the army until later, when parlia
ment passes a special law.
GIRL KIDNAPPED FOUR
YEARS AGO IS RETURNED
Indianapolis Child ' Had Been Left in
Canada by a Woman.
Indianapolis, Ind., Oct. 3. A hunt
for Lorine Merriman, 9 years old, kid
napped from the home of her aunt,
Mrs. Luelle Overman, here four years
ago, which extended twice across the
continent, ended today when the girl
was returned to Indianapolis from
Grand Forks, B. C. Advertisements
for Katherine Winters, of Newcastle,
Ind., who has been missing since 1913,
led to the finding of the Merriman
child in the Canadian home. The
child had been left in Canada by a
woman who for a time paid for her
board. The woman Is supposed to
have been the girl's mother.
Taft to Lecture at Wesleyan.
Middletown, Conn., Oct. 3. Former
President William H. Taft will lec
ture in Memorial Chapel, Wesleyan
university, on Oct. 10, it was 'an
nounced today. His eubject will be
Our World Relations. Mr. Taft re
ceived an honorary degree from Wes
leyan at the inauguration of President
William Arnold Shanklin.
417 Arrestes for Counterfeiting Last
Year.
Washington, Oct. 80. During the
fiscal year ended June 80, according to
a treasury department report made
putlic today, there were 417 arrests of
supposed counterfeiters, of whom 229
were conviated and 19 acquitted; 114
cases are pending, and 65 were lost in
thr vavs
More Troops to
Leave Border
FIRST CONNECTICUT AMBULANCE
CO. AMONG THEM
TROOP M, R. I. CAVALRY
All National Guard Troops Now in
Mobilization Camps Are to be Sent
to the Border to. Relieve Those Now
There.
Washington, Oct. 3. The following
national guard organizations will be
sent to their home- station for mus
tering out as soon as the Michigan
contingent which has been ordered
south, reaches the border:.
The First Kansas Infantry; Troop
M. Rhode Island Cavalry; Troop A,
Massachusetts Cavalry; Company A,
Pennsylvania Engineers; the New Jer
sey Signal company; First Connecti
cut Ambulance company; New Jersey
First Ambulance company and First
Field Hospital.
Secretary Baker said all national
guard troops now in mobilization
camps would be sent to the border "in
the immediate future" and in each in
stance organizations on the border
would be returned tot heir home sta
tions uppn the arrival of new units.
The secretary's statement was the
first announcement that the war de
partment had adopted a policy calling
for border service for all the national
guardsmen before they are mustered
out. It has been understood for sev
eral weeks, however, that this
course would be pursued. Department
officials expect the last of the units
to be moving toward the border within
the next week or ten days.
HOLLAND IS CARING
FOR GERMAN CHILDREN
Dutch Nation is Confronted With a
Neuthadity Puzzle Thereby.
Amsterdam, Netherlands, Oct. 3. In
the Amsterdamener, Professor Van
Hamel, the distinguished authority on
law, describes the -bringing of some
thousands of German children to
Holland as the latest moral puzzle that
confronts the Dutch national. He says
it would indeed be a terrifying pros
pect if Holland, in order to escape
the imputation of unmercif ulness, had
to provide lodging for some hundreds
of thousands of German women and
children. He continues: "To act in
such ways as a restaurant for Ger
many, who is suffering under the
starvation -war, could, not easily be
considered as in accord with our
striving after unimpeachable neutr.il""
ty. It would expose us immediately
of itself to scarcity of food, and mere
ovcer pretty certainly put a stop to
imports from the Allies. While the
Allies render possible imports for our
own internal consumption it would be
too much of a good thing to permit all
Germany to come here and eat in Hol
land. "But still there is a great difference
between such a case and the simple
fact that a couple of thousand hungry
and underfed German children are well
treated here, for a short time. It must
be remembered, however, that there
exists a great difference between
friendly philanthropy and organized
evasion of the starvation policy of the
Allies.
For the present we see in the entire
plan and solely the first (friendly phi
lanthropy) and we expect too that it
shall continue such."
NAVAL LESSONS TAUGHT
BY THE EUROPEAN WAR
Are Being Well Analyzed by United
States Naval Constructors
San Francisco, Oct. 3. Lessons of
the European war, especially those
taught by submarines and torpedo at
tack, have been so well analyzed by
United States naval constructors that
the new oil and electric superdread
nought California will be able to make
port in spite of numerous and severe
torpedo wounds, say navy engineers.
The 1,022 bluejackets who will man
the battleship under 58 officers, how
ever, probably will divide their, ad
miration between this, her dozen
fourteen inch guns, and some of the
many electrical devices, such as the
electric potato peeler in the galley,
the. electric-driven ice-cream freezer,
or the electric dish-washing machine
with a capacity of 1,000 dishes an hour.
Use of electricity on the California
begins with her main engines, driven
by motors supplied . with current by
generators turned by steam turbines
of 28,000 horsepower. There will be
practically no work done on shipboard
directly by steam, and the "black
gang" of tradition, instead of heaving
tons of coal per hour into ever hungry
furnaces, will manipulate levers con
trolling oil-burners under the boilers.
These latter will be the usual water
tube type, but new methods of instal
lation hflVA hAQn rlaviaa f .
; . woioi.u lui JJiaULlC-
Ually all the California's engine and
uuiici -rouni equipment, it is said.
It is understood that the new tor
pedo and mine-proof construction Is
gained by an improved method of
bulkhead building. The bulkheads are
to be of steel, but less rigid than the
ordinary types, and resistance is said
to have been increased 25 to 30 per
cent.
A clipper bow, Instead of the con
ventional navy ram, will distinguish
the California, and she will have two
cage masts bearing fire control plat
forms. REDUCTION OF THE AMOUNT
OF ALCOHOL IN BEER
Advocated at Convention of the Mas
ter Brewers' Association.
Buffalo, N. Y., Oct. 3, A reduction
in the amount of alcohol in beer was
advocated by speakers at the annual
convention of the Master Brewers' as
sociation, which ended here today.
Hugh S. Fox, secretary of the United
States Brewers' asosciation said the
solution of the wfhile liquor problem
would be prohibition of the sale of
spirituous liquors and license for the
sale of beers and light wines low ta
alcohol.
George J. Meyer of Buffalo announc
ed two scholarships of $250 each for
college students who include in their
studies something relating to the
brewing of beer. William F. Cart
hause of St. Louis, was elected presi
dent of the association.
For Armenian
and Syrian Relief
CAMPAIGN LAUNCHED YESTERDAY
$5,000,000 IS WANTED
An Exhaustive Summary of the Situa
tion Will be Sent to Ministers of
120,000 Churches all Over the Coun
try. Washington, Oct. 3. The greatest
American relief campaign to be under
taken since organization of the Bel
gian Relief Commission was launched
today by the American Committee for
Armenian and Syrian Relief. An ex
haustive summary of . the whole Ar
menian and Syrian situation was made
public and will be sent to ministers
of 120.000 churches all over the coun
try and to many leading citizens and
relief organizations. A fund of $5,000, a
000 is called for to relieve 1,000,000
destitute, exiled and starving Armen
ians and Syrians scattered broadcast
over Turkey, Persia, Syria and Pales
tine. The appeal declares that of
nearly two million Armenians origi
nally in their native country, three
quarters of a ' million have been mas
sacred or have died of wounds, dis
ease or exhaustion since the war be
gan. Turkey Has Consented.
The state department, through ur
gent negotiations, recently secured
Turkey's consent to extension of
American relief, provided it is distrib
uted jointly by the American Red
Cross and the Turkish Red Crescent.
Today it was announced that the al
lied blockade had been lifted to al
low passage of the supplies. October
21 and 22 have been set aside by pro
clamation by President Wilson as re
lief days and the appeal being sent
broadcast by the committee calls for
sermon in every ipulpit of the country
and articles in every newspaper.
Some Armenians Cannot be Reached.
Some of the Armenians cannot be
reached at present, since Turkey's
consent has not been extended as yet
to Armenia proper. Many thousands
will be found in Persia, however, and
in the sections recently conquered by
the Russians, as well as in Syria. In
this latter section, the appal declares,
the situation has been made even more
terrible by restrictions of the allied
blockade and the scarcity of Turkish
railroads, by the exportation of sup
plies for the Turkish armies and by
the destruction of other supplies by
a virulent locust scourge.
.People Eating Grass .and Locusts
"People were found eating grass,
herbs and locusts, ,K said the committee
in describing its investigation of con
ditions there, "and in desperate cases
dead animals and human bodies are
reported to have been eaten. In
some cases men were lined up so
that several could be shot with one
bullet in order not to waste ammu
nition. A mother said that not a girl
above 12 (and some younger) in the
village of ( ) escaped violation. The
people kill and -eat street dogs. A
short time ago they killed and ate a
dying man.
Daughters Outraged, Then Killed.
"Of 450 from one village only one
woman lives; she saw her husband
and three sons tied together and shot
with one bullet to save ammunition.
She saw her daughters outraged and
then killed. She was carried away by
a Kurd, but escaped by night, riaked
and after terrible suffering fell in with
some refugees.
"In the literal sense of the word,
100,000 to 120,000 Armenians arrived
at Etchmiadzin, stripped even of their
outer garments. There 11,000 people
died and 40,000 more in the country.
Hundreds Dying of Starvation.
"In Aleppo relief funds are so in
adequate that many exiles in the des
titute places have only grass to ,eat
and they are dying of starvation by
the hundred. Erzrook seems to have
been dealt with most savagely. Less
than 200 Armenians out of 20,000 have
escaped death or deportation.
"Of the first caravan of 600 people
sent from Deir Zor to Ana the Arabs
killed 500 on the way. In a native
letter from Haleb ast week the num
ber of orphans at that place was es
timated at 25,000. Some of the vil
lages lost more than one-third of their
population."
ENORMOUS TRANSACTION OF
NEW YORK CLEARING HOUSE
Average Daily for the Year Up to
Sept. 2 Amounted to $512,510,303.
New York, Oct. 3. Total transac
tions of the New York Clearing
House for the year ended September
30 exceeded 155,000,000 dollars, break
ing all previous records, according to
the annual report made public today.
Total transactions since the organiza
tion of the clearing house nearly sixty-three
years ago were nearly three
trillions of dollars.
The year's transactions, compared
with the previous year, were as fol
lows: 1915-16 1914-15
Exch'ges $147,180,709,461 $90,842,707,724
Balances 8,561,624,447 5,340,846,740
Totals 155,742,333,908 96,183,554,464
Total" transactions since organiza
tion are:
Exchanges $2,747,057,458,238
Balances 131,699,611,455
Total $2,878,757,069,693
The average daily transactions for
the year amounted to $512,10,308. On
September 2 transactions reached a
total of $1,112,282,206, the largest on
record for one day.
The clearing house association is
now composed of 29 national banks
16 state banks and 15 trust com
panies. The federal reserve bank of
New York and the Assistant Treasur
er of the United States also make their
exchanges at the clearing house, . as
well as 21 non-member banks, and
trust companies.
Frank A. Vanderlip, president of the
National City Bank, was re-elected
president of the association today and
William Sherrer manager.
Movements of Steamships.
Liverpool, Sept. 29. Sailed : steamer
Northland, Montreal.
The Difference.
Campaign text-books differ from the
others in that whereas the ordinary
kind is the beginning of studious
labor, the campaign variety is the
end of labored
Journal.
study. Milwaukee
Condensed Telegrams
Exports of explosives during the
month of August totaled $74,777,977.
Col. Lukoff has been appointed chief
of the general staff of the Bulgarian
army.
Shipments of fresh and cured meats
from Chicago last week totaled 48,163,
000 pounds.
Shipments of cotton from Galveston
to foreign countries last month were
180,600 bales.
Six hundred workers employed at
the De Nobili Cigar Co., at Brooklyn,
went on strike.
Six new cases of infantile paralysis
were reported yesterday to the state
board of health.
The Western Power Co., of Canada,
Ltd., was incorporated with a capital
stock of $10,000,000.
During September, United States
mints coined 35,268,000 pieces of metal,
valued at $2,067,380.
An unidentified man was killed by a
New York Central train in the tunnel
under Sing Sing prison.
Reginald Douglas, of Au Sable
Forks, N. Y., was killed while deer
shooting in the Adirondacks.
The Paraguayan railways complete
ly suspended operations because of
disorders in the railway strike.
Three hundred and fifty-four retir
ed Minnesota school teachers got their
first pension from the state fund.
The exports of copper in September
amounted to 29,803 tons, compared
with 14,827 tons in September, 1915.
The state board of pharmacy ex
amined 20 applicants for state certifi
cates to prcatice pharmacy yesterday.
Four persons were injured- when a
car in Manhattan Street jumped the
switch and crashed into a Broadway
car.
Peter Morrell, of Williamsburg, was
shot and seriously wounded by an un
identified man who had been concealed
in a doorway. .......
Archie Roosevelt, son of the Colonel
was fined $25 at Mineola for driving
his car 35 miles an hour on the
Jericho Turnpike. y
Dr. Joseph Byrne, a professor in
Fordham University, arrived at New
York on the steamer Philadelphia atfer
a visit to Ireland.
Antonio Federici was placed on trial
in Newark, N. J., charged with having
shot and killed Patrolman Robert J.
Shannon, at Cedar Grove, on Dec. 17,
last.
Manton W." "Wyvatl, a representative
of the -State department,- returned to
New York, on the American liner Fin
land from a special mission to Eng
land. One man and seven horses were
burned to death in a fire which de
stroyed the stable of William Mathew
son at Pawtucket, N. Y., at a loss of
$10,000.
Billy Sunday is coming to convert
New York city in April, May and
June, 1917. The tabernacle will be
erected on the old Yankee baseball
grounds.
The Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co.
announced that it had extended the
leaves of absence of its employes at
the Mexican border until Nov. 1 with
full pay.
Among the incorporation papers
filed in the state secretary's office were
Winona Mills Hosiery corporation,
$200,000; Behn Brothers, Greenwich,
$500,000.
Reports made public at the War
Department show that it cost $25,000
last month to recruit 372 men in New
York for the National Guard in the
Federal Service. '
The Interstate Commerce Commis
sion has suspended until Dec. 29, a
proposed increase of 50 per cent in
rates on iron and steel articles for
export through Pacific terminals.
In a letter to Louis Macon, of
Switzerland president of the league of
neutral countries, Theodore Roosevelt
applauds the league's recent denunci
ation of . the invasion of Belgium.
General Funston notified the War
Department that the three regiments
of Pennsylvania Infantry to be re
turned from the border to home sta
tions were First, Third and Tenth.
The first ambulance for carrying in
fantile paralysis victims to hospitals
for treatment was put into service in
New York. It was purchased by the
Woman's American Supply League.
Charles C. Dickinson, a former of
ficial in the Carnegie Trust Co., died
insolvent. The report of Appraiser
Ludden shows that Dickinson had as
sets of $40,038 and liabilities of of
$413,043.
Infantile paralysis caused 150 deaths
in Massachusetts during the months
of July, August and September, according-
to statistics compiled by the
state department of health.
Alfred Schaller of Torrington plead
ed guilty of assault with" intent to
kill his wife in the superior court yes
terday and Judge Bennett sentenced
him to the state prison for from two
to four years.
The body of Mrs. Sophie Lamb, who
had been missing from the Brooklyn
State Hospital for the Insane for more
than a month, was found in the brush
on the Winthop Street side of the hos
pital grounds.
While driving a motorcycle to which
was attached a sidecar, Victor Hack
er, of Lititz, Pa., lost control of the
machine and it overturned, killing
Norman Nicall, one of the occupants
of the sidecar.
Gifts varying from $2 to $7,000
reaching a total of $40,000 were an
nounced by the Trustees of Columbia
University. The largest gift from an
anonymous doner toward the main
tenance of the legislative drafting re
search bureau.
The Independent, which six months
ago absorbed Harper's Weekly, an
nounced last night that it had pur
chased the Countryside Magazine
known as Suburban Life, until two
t years ago. It will be continued as a
monthly publication.
STREET GARS COLLIDE IN CLEVELAND
Collision Occurred On the West Third Street Bridge,
Causing It to Collapse
CARS DROPPED 30 FEET
Two Bodies Have Been Recovered and Several Other Dead
Are Believed to be in the Wreckage More Than Thirty
Are in Hospitals There Were Forty Persons on One
Car and Twenty on the Other The Accident Was
Caused by a Car Crowded With Women Shoppers
Breaking Away From the Motorman on a Hill Approach
ing the Bridge The Runaway Car Jumped the Track
and Crashed Into a Car Coming in an Opposite Direction.
Cleveland, O., Oct. 3. Two persons
were killed and more than thirty in
jured as the toll of a bridge tragedy
here early this evening when two
street cars collided on the West Third
street bridge, causing it to collapse.
The cars dropped thirty feet to the
Baltimore and Ohio railroad tracks,
where they almost rolled into the
Cuyahoga river
There were forty persons on one car
and twenty on the other. It was at
first believed that the death list would
reach fifty, but later it was found that
while dozens were hurt only a few
had been killed.
The accident occurred when a south
bound Scranton road car carrying
home a crowd of women shoppers in
the rush hour broke away from the
motorman on a hill approaching the
bridge and tore down uport.the north
approach to the bridge just as a north
bound car reached the same point. The
runaway car jumped the, track and
struck the northbound car. The com
bined weight of the two cars and the
shock of the collision made the wood
en bridge sag. Then it gave way.
Edna Waddington, a telephone oper
ator employed by the Erie Railroad
company, saw the accident from where
she sat at her switchboard and turned
in a call for ambulances, doctors and
the fire department.
Hundreds within earshot of the
scene heard the shrieks and cries of
pain and terror as the cars carried
their burden, for the most part women,
to death or imurv.. - -
The worlebrreSc ifoWftaTf'a once.
Those who had not Jwieafcseriously in
jured extricated themselves and then
gave aid to those less fortunate. It
was not long before thirty nad been
taken out and carried to hospitals.
Some are probably fatally injured and
COLONEL ROOSEVELT AND
W. H. TAFT SHOOK HANDS.
Each Said "How Do You Do?" Bowed
and Passed On.
New York, Oct. 3. Theodore Roose
velt and William H. Taft clasped
hands for a moment tonight at the
Union League club's reception to
Charles E. Hughes.
"How do you do?" said Mr. Taft.
"How do you do?" Mr. Roosevelt re
plied. .
Each bowed, and Mr. Roosevelt
passed on to shake hands with other
guests, leaving Mr. Taft to greet those
who followed. A few minutes later
Mr. Roosevelt took his place in the
receiving line. He stood between Mr.
Hughes and Chauncey M. Depew. Just
fbe other side of Mr. Depew stood Mr.
Taft.
Thus, standing in the same receiving
line, they shook hands with the hun
dreds of club members and their guests
who filed past during the evening.
They did not meet again, however,
or exchange any other word than the
commonplaces cf greeting.
"We 6hook hands," Mr. Taft said
afterwards, "just like any gentlemen
would shake hands.
Colonel Roosevelt declined to com
ment on the meeting.
After the handshaking was over and
the library was cleared,' Elihu Root,
president of the club, escorted Mr.
Hughes through a flag-draped corridor
to a small platform in the main club
room. Beneath a life-size picture of
Abraham Lincoln, Mr. Root again in
torduced theinominee, and Mr. Hughes
made a brief address.
Colonel Roosevelt and Mr. Taft were
called on by Mr. Root, and each re
sponded with a ehort talk.
The meeting between Colonel Roose
velt and Mr. Taft was the first since
April 13, 1915, at New Haven, Conn.,
when both were pallbearers at the fu
neral of Thomas R. Lounsbury, long
time professor of English at Yale uni
versity and a close friend of 'both. On
that occasion they merely shook hands,
exchanging no word.
MILITARY AERONAUTICS ARE
CONDUCTED WITH ENERGY
Invesetigation Failed to Substantiate
Allegations of Inefficiency.
Washington, Oct. . The special war
department board, which investigated
military aeronautics reported today
that its inquiry not .only failed entire
ly to substantiate allegations of in
efficiency on the part of army officers,
but clearly established that develop
ment of this branch-of the service is
being conducted with energy and fore
sight. . . . , - .
A war department statement on the
report replied to criticisms against
the service which took the form of
inspired editorials appearing in the
metropolitan press and in statements
signed by Mr. Henry Woodhouse and
Mr. Alan R. Hawley, both of the Aero
Club of America,, and declared that
"as far as this branch is concerned, the
nation can view the future with con
fidence and serenity."
Will of Seth Low.
New Tor, Oct. 3. The' will of
Seth Low, 1 twice mayor of Brooklyn,
once mayor of Greater New York,
which was Sled in White Plains to
day, leaves the bulk of an estate es
timated at more than $4,000,000 to his
widow, Annie W. S. Low. A number
Of bequests are made to relatives,
friends and employes - ' ,
TO RAILROAD TRACKS
the death list will undoubtedly be
swelled from this source.
The portion of the bridge which fell
is just, north of the river. It is twenty-five
years old. The main part of
the structure was washed away in the
1912 flood and was replaced the same
year by another wooden bridge bought
In Detroit and brought here.
. Mayor Harry L. Davis and Public
Utilities Director Thomas S. Farrell
promised to conduct a strict inquiry in
an effort to place the responsibility
for the disaster.
Motorman. H. T. Daniel of the south
bound runaway car escaped serious in
Jury, but his conductor is dead. Daniel
said the brakes of his car failed to
work and it dashed down the hill, out
upon the bridge, jumped the track and
crashed into the other car.
"I felt the bridge tremble wnen the
cars came together ana ootn cars fell
with the bridge," said Daniel.
The southbound car was smashed
flat by the force of the crash. How
anyone escaped from it alive is almost
beyond comprehension. No part of its
framework is left intact. The north
bound car was badly damaged.
The dead whose bodies have been
recovered include Otto Dorchert, con
ductor of the southbound car, O.
O'Keefe, motorman of the northbound
car, and two unidentified women.
A delivery wagon and horse, manned
by a driver, which was on the col
lapsed portion of the bridge, also went
down with the structure. The fate of
the driver could not be learned.
Delay in searching the wreckage was
occasioned by the fear that removal
of the debris might cause the remain
der of the bridge, which is greatly
weakened, to fall. The entire bridge is
300 feet long.
Baltimore and Ohio railway and all
street car traffic operating over the
structure is at a standstill.
NEK YORK GETTING ONLY
HALF USUAL SUPPLY OF MILK
Thorough Investigation to be Under- ,
taken at Once by a Commission.
New York, Oct. 3. Thorough inves
tigation of the controversy between
the Dairymen's League and the milk
distributors of New York which re
sulted today in a shortage of nearly 50 ;
per cent, in the city's normal supply,
Will be undertaken at once by a com
mission to be appointed by Mayor
Mitchel, it was announced after a
conference late today. ,
At the conferences were the mayor.
District Attorney Swann, members of
the Dairymen's League and represen
tatives of the large distributing com
panies. Mayor Mitchel said he had
sent for the members of the league,
as well as representatives of the dis- ;
tributing firms, "to see if there is any
basis upon which their controversy
might be settled." His conference
with the distributors preceded that
with the producers. Another confer
ence with the distributors will be held
tomorrow. The mayor said the dis
tributors expressed a fear that they
might be violating the Donnelly Act, f
an anti-trust measure, if they agreed
upon a fixed price for milk such as is
being sought by the producers. Dis
trict Attorney Swann asserted, how
ever, that ho did not believe the Don
nelly act would apply in case the
dealers accepted the price scale set
by the producers.
$50,000 DAMAGE LUMBER .
FIRE AT SALEM, MASS.
Help Was Called From Other Places
as a Heavier Loss Was Feared.
Salem, Mass., Oct. 3. Fire damaged
the extensive lumber plant of N. P.
Gifford and Sons to the extent of
$50000 today. The plant is located
on Bridge street, near the tracks of
the Boston & Maine Railroad and as
there are many wooden structures in
the district, a heavier loss was feared
at first, and help was called from
other places.
OBITUARY.
Colonel Robert C. McKinney.
Greenwich, Conn., Oct. 3. Colonel
Robert C. McKinney, chairman of the
board of directors of Niles. Brement
and Pond company. New York machin
ists, died at his home at Belle Ha
ven today after a long illness, aged 64.
He was president of the New York Ma
chinery club and a member of other
prominent- metropolitan organizations.
He was a colonel on tha staff of Gov
ernor Bushnell of Ohio.
Rev. Dr. John Peter Jones.
Hartford, Conn., Oct. 3. Rev. Dr.
John Peter Jones, for 36 years a Con
gregational missionary in India, a
lecturer, and author of works on re
ligious subjects, died tonight after a
long illness, aged 69. His best known
work is "Christa of the Christ," which
is used as & text book in colleges. He
is survived by his wife, four daught.
ers and a son, the latter being Pro
fessor Edward F. Jones of Northwest
ern University.
. Killed By an Auto Truck.
Stamford, Conn., Oct. 3. While
Walking toward his home on the Bos
ton post road, ton.ht, John Jessup,
aged 40, was struck by an auto truck
and instantly killed. The driver,
John J. Smith of New Rochelle, N. Y.,
was held by the police.
There are 400 cases of typhoid fevec
in Harrisbursr. Pa.
