1 FTN'A'TSTCTA'L E DI Tl O N
NIGHT
EXTRA
txamna
jlTlVSBfKrr WxaL'Bi
imntv
NIGHT
EXTRA
roL. IJJ.-NO. 18
PltlL.ADEL.PIUA, W13D1SKSDAY, OCTOBER I, 3 91G
Copiiuht, lilt, it 1st rcsuo Uhii CouriST '
ON ALLIES
ilVE FOE BACK
0OSS DANUBE
Mmians Forced to With-
iritw From Bulgar Soil,
Berlin Says
IT BATTLE RAGING
-Rumanians Attack Fierce
ly Mackensen's Army in
DODruaja-
A St1 bttle' whi may dcclde
falc of the entire Teuton campaign
Ac Balkans, Is raging in the
"r -r...t ! ..!
uuHa. Germans, XJUlRarmna uu
ks hae forced the withdrawal of
Rumanian force that crossed the
JSawfc Jnt0 Bu,Kria blwctn Rust
and Tutrakan, whilo the Russians
Rumanians facing von Mackonsen
tjgtfce Dobrndja are attacking without
jrtM. Russian warships are co-oper-fag
dth the Allied army in shelling:
the Bulbars.
Bakarlan forces have occupied the
Anion island of Malukkalnfat, near
the Danube, Sofia announced today.
British forces have occupied part of
tirt village of Jcnikoj, south of the
Sen road, in Macedonia, and have
ETkaten back all Bulgarian attacks.
Ill While both the German and the
fcwelan War Offices agree that fierce
ktfoeg are going on along most of the
tlrn front, Pctrograd announces to
day tin important success in Galicia.
The center of the Russian armies oper
ata; in Galicia has crossed the Zlota
Lif River and is trying to envelop
the railway center of Brzezany, forty-
f ik Biles southeast of Lcmberg and
Mrifeut of Hahez.
The village of Eaucourt L'Abbaye,
Kt('o Bapaume, today was cleared (
bf $e British of the last remaining '
Wf,'tho British War Qfilco an
mwSby today. Violent artillery duels
ii4,Mffkir south of tlifl Atlere. North
ftttm'Somtat Iho French last night
'tfcifoWsd.'the- conquest of a- Gonnun
itJNMA between Morval and St. Pierre
iftMtr Wood, taking 200 prisoners.
Mwi of the river there was a violent
eneardment in the regrion of Bcllov-
js-Senterre, but no important infantry
.wig.'
&WMAMAX INVADERS
XAM10WLY ESCAPE FATE
OF TUTRAKAN FORCES
BEIIL1N, Oct .
TIi Rumanian force that crossed Uio
Ibeaebe and Imaded Bulgaria has been
ffcejed' to-withdraw tn hasty night. It was
jjeWally announced this afternoon.
'AtUckrd on three sides, by German and
Mnrian troops and threatened with en-
itoleeaient, the Rumanians retreated.
Tse crossing had been made near Rjaso-
lisvthe Rumanians using- transports and
Keen bridges. Teutonic monitors des-
nW one of the Pontoons, endanntrlnir tli
Sfn,n' Um ot "Upplles. Meanwhile
fir and German forces approached on
i Banks and on the front.
tMed back against the river the Bu-
?" ere threatened wltli a repetition
disaster at Tutrakan. where 23,000
MHan troops were trapped on the south
.of the Danube and captured while
Md were drowned trvlnr n im
1 rtwr.
(GrmanBular encircling movement
- wjam xa an end the nrst Invasion
ffrto, widely heralded In the Allied
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSW
ssssssssssssssssHI ' t5T UsH
iIbbbbbbbbIsIbbbbK W
.JbbbbbbbbbbbbbbE? 'S
1SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSK0 f
, laSBBBBBBBBBKtV'Y
LAKE SUPERIOR
REFUSES TO TELL
ITS WAR PROFITS
Stockholders, in Stormy
Meeting, Hear of Pos
sible Slump
PHILADELPHIAN ON BOARD
A GOLDEN-RULE GIRL
Miss Gertrude Blackburn, of the
West Philadelphia High School,
recovered from infantile paralysis,
who not only has given of her
blood for the benefit of other suf
ferers, but plays the violin three
times each week in children's insti
tutions to help them forget their
ailments.
End of European Conflict Soon
Hinted nt in the
Report
REALTY MEN URGE
GAIN IN REVENUES
AND NO TAX JUMP
Oppose Increase as Unjust j
Burden Want Others !
to Pay
PUBLIC HEARING PLANNED
GREAT ORDNANCE
TEST PLANT TO BE
BUILT IN JERSEY
Bethlehem Stee.1 Company
Plans Proving Grounds
Near May's Landing
WILL SURPASS KRUPPS
C.tlio en rat hit. Column 0.
Wehrt of the Sunset"
the latest story by
HEX BEACH
Of "Tho Snnll..." .l unit.-
Near Do Well," begins in
SATURDAY'S
frying iitlie&gM
Htart of thn c. ...iii i. ,..
it - - " is written
I ". author'. w. J .1.. ..
K-ii ---" - ' Kueresung
t2T' rt d"18 With "nditions
' w l urande. A love, story
Optional annrnl Is ,...1.J .. nt.
"Wy Mexican hrlinii... .1
Mjta of Mexico by a band of
' o;er8
MAYS LANDING, X. J., Oct. 4 The
greatest proving ground for ordnance In the
world, principally for the ue of the United
States Government, will be established here
along the Great Egg Harbor niter by the
Dethlehem Steel Company. It H to exceed
In area and equipment even the famous
"Krupp grounds In Germany, now the finest
anywhere.
Official announcement of this develop
ment, for which a tract of let el land nf teen
miles long and from one to three broad
has recently been purchased, was made to
day to the State Commission of Conserva
tion and Development, In a hearing at Tren
ton by William B. Massey, representative
for the steel corporation. The tract con
talnsSO.OOO acres.
Hore than 1000 deed have been obtained
through Maseey & Kdwards, of Ocean City,
many of thrm with extreme difficulty, In
volving extended searches and hunts for
missing heirs throughout the country,
Hundreds of men will get, employment- In
the Industry as soon as the tract can be
placed In readiness, which will take several
months, and will mean an expenditure of
hundreds of thturands of dollars. But the
proving ground Is only the Immediate ob
ject, according to tho statements made to
the commission. An extension of the steel
works Is contemplated which may eventual
ly employ thousands of men.
The tract Ilea between Mays Tending and
Tuckahoe, bounded on the east by tho Great
Egg Harbor Ttlver, on the south by the
Tuckahoe Illver and on the west by the
county boulevard. On tho northern end
lies this municipality, which will be head
quarters for the business, and here will be
established representatives from many gov
ernments, from tho armies and navies,
watching the tests made of -ordnance pur
chased from the Bethlehem Steel Company.
That this will be the permanent proving
ground for all the, company's plant was
gathered from statements made today, end
no expense, it vwih Intimated, vtould be
spared to Improve the entire tract and make
It famous tie world over. Most of the
United States ordnance will be tested here
and exhaustive experiments will be con
ducted with new guns and ammunition, as
well as armor plate. The possibilities ot
the project, It was stated, are only limited
to the amount of "preparednesa," not only
in the United States, but In foreign nations
after the war.
HUx-kholder of the TuVe Superior Cor
poration, who held their annual meeting to
day at 410 Market street. Camden, tried
hard to learn how much money had been
made out of tvar orders here lately, but
failed.
J. Prater Tavlor, tlce president of the
corporation, presided at the meeting, and
lie could not he Induced to tell.
Stockholders from all corners ot the meet
ing room questioned: some Interetedlj,
some apologetically, some almost threaten
ingly; but to them all Mr. Taylor's answer
was the same:
"I cannot give you the figures," he would
say; "I can only tell you that they are
satisfactory."
One of the stockholders suggested that
what might be "satisfactory" to some per
sons would not be "satisfactory" to other,
but Mr. Taylor would shed no light on the
burning question. It would be unitlse. he
said; "It was not a thing to be given out
let competitors learn."
REFUSES FIGURES '
The first questioner on the topic uug
gested that the net earnings for the last
three monthi might be (6,000,000 or J7.000,
000, and Mr. Taj lor quickly crushed tho
ue of figures and took up adjectives In
stead. T,ater on another stockholder wanted
to Know If that first question was an In
spired one for the sake of gtvlhg publicity
to those figures. Mr. Taylor said It cer
tainly was not.
Mr. Tavlor Indicated that, while the net
earnings were) "satisfactory," It would be
additionally unwise to name them, because
there was no telling how long they would
keep up.
The net earnings, whatever they are.
are now due In great part to contracts for
shell steel from the Canadian Government.
From what Mr. Taylor said to the stock
holders there la a vtell;denned belief among
steel men that tit war might end any
where from sir, eight to ten months, and
that would mean "good-by' to shell steel
contracts, and baclc to making steel rails.
The profits would drop.
AS .TO KN'D OF WAR
Mr. Taylor did not make clear any rea
son for believing that the wur was going
to end that soon; he simply remarked the
prevailing opinion. That reminded another
stockholder that, with all the steel com
panies publishing their enormous net earn
ings, there must be some reason why they
weren't receiving similar news.
This was received In more or less silence.
Some of the more determined questioners
were rather taken aback when one man
suggested a voto of confidence In Mr. Tay
lor. He forestalled thin after the de
termined questioners Interjected that they
were attacking no one's integrity, and put
his report to a vote. It passed without
any one voting nay, although It seemed
from the number of ayes shouted there
were hardly .more than eight or nine out
of a possible forty-odd men present.
As nearly everybody who Is interested In
the Lake Superior Corporation knows, its
best money getter Is the Algoma Steel riant.
SOMEWHAT PESSIMISTIC
One gathered from conversations ot the
stockholders that the meetlrur was more or
less of a disappointment. One ot the mines
has about given out. the vice president said
in his speech, and his gloomy prophecy that
I ,
Suggestions for Taxation
by Real Estate Hoard
t
i rnA.XATlUM of ?l u thousand an-
-J-nuully on the yearly average dc-po-iits
of banks and trust companies.
Taxation of holders of special
franchises.
Tax of SI u thousand on the out-
I put of all I'liiladrlphia mnnufne-
tururs.
Tax of one-half of one per cent
of cross receipts of brokers, lawyers,
doctors and other piofcsMonal men
whose gross receipts amount to
$2(1,000 a year.
Continued a rn Tw. Caluma FIt
A tlgorous campaign to Itiireuse the rev
enues of the city without an additional ta
on real estate Is being conducted by the
Philadelphia Real Estate llonid t
Councils ate required by Ian to fix the
tax rate for 1M7 before Dtcembt. ' I fib.
and tho board has the promlu- mT .jooeph
E. Gaffney, chairman of Councils' Finance
Committee, that the rate will not bo deter
mined until a public hearing Iiuh been held
to dlficum vvajs and means. Tho Philadel
phia Real Estate Board will vend repre
sentatives to the hearing to show how
(5,000,000 In additional revenue needed by
the city can bo raised by the taxntlon of
things other than real estate. It Is con
tended by the board that real estate holdors
of Philadelphia aro paying 90 per cent of
the taxes of the cllj. Pavld K. Dallam,
chairman ot the legislative committee of the
board, said today that MiIh was an unjust
burden on the real estate owners ot the
city.
CONDITIONS IN NEW TORK
He pointed out that In New York banks
pay taxes nggrrgattng $4,500,000 and hold
ers of special franchises pay (4.000,000. In
Philadelphia, he said, bank escape taxa
tion and so do holders of special franchises.
Mr. Dallam argued that It was within the
power of Councils to gain additional rev
enue to the amount of (",000,000 or (4,000,
000 by taxing things which now go un
taxed. The remaining revenue needed, he
hald. coyld le pjjtalned by legislation. ,
The'board 'has provided the"siayor and
members of Councils With a immphlot which
sets forth Its views regarding taxation.
The pamphlet was written by Mr. Dallam.
In comparing Philadelphia with otlicr
cities In the matter of taxation, Mr. Dallam
writes: "We -mist accept at once that In
comparison with other large cities Phil
adelphia Is undertaxed. "While New Torlt
raises by direct taxation about CJS per
capita, Philadelphia raises only about (14.
Whereas other cities raise their taxes from
maqy subjects, wo practically tax only one.
What we want Is no that ten people out
of one hundred should pay taxes, but such
charges should be distributed among fifty
people.''
WANTS MANUFACTURERS TO PAY
Mr. Dallam urges thut manufacturers,
dealers and contractors should be taxed as
follows:
"I think that all manufacturers, dealers,
traders, contractors and others who pro
duce or sell, should take out a license and
pay at the rate now established, say (1
per thousand on their output or product.
At this writing. Instead of a million and
a quarter now collected by the State, we
could collect at least two and a half to
three millions of dollars. This simply from
dealers, manufacturer and contractors
alone.
"There are classified lu the city directory
for 1)1! (79 different occupations or 'pro
fessions, and the people registered under
t'lluu Pt lite, Calomn Tw
RISKS LIFE IN RESCUE
OF PHILADELPHIA MAN
Mastpr Mechanic of Scranton
Fire Department Prevents
Electrocution
THE WEATHER
FORSCAST
'-irtwirj,:"' """ to
tttt - J"u" F DAY
4?HLL"'
ihlli- ' 1 St TTT.
- i.Ui ruj"jnnc.
SCRANTON, Pa.. Oct. 4 Ralph Kin
back,' master nvchanlo of the Scranton fire
department, rescued "William Dallyt of 5465
Webster1 street, Philadelphia, secretary of
the Volunteer Firemen's Association, of that
city, from possible electrocution today In
the Laurel Line yards. Klnback made a
running jpmp against pally while sparks
were sputtering from the Philadelphia
man's clothing and rolled hlui ofl! the third
rail, charged with 0 volts. "
Dally was taken to the State hospital
and later was discharged. Kinback'a right
leg wab scorched.'
' Daily was at the Laurel Lino freight ta
tlon witnessing the unloading of the ap
para'tus of the William Fenn Hose Com
pany, of Philadelphia, when the accident
happened. 4
Still Looking for Bremen
NEW LONDON, Oct, 4. Captain Illnsch
started on. a seareh for the submarine liner
Bremen again late last night. . Instead of
ohanerlnt: tC hB "? Ure Powerboat
owned by the JSattwn Forwardhig Com
Py, , i
Frewh Rnly to U. 8. Note oh Wy
WAHDrWNbet. 4 Secretary LaB
slug announced that the French refrty tb the
Awerkmn note M May 4 poUtlag against
auO) aetaur .a4 Bwalp, whles) Will l
UUMloal w)th the Brithss reedy; he ba
rmrtea by the Hsahaaey at Pari a its
way a the Vwt4 SUtea. ,
PARADE FOR BORDER
GUARDS NEXT MONDAY
First Infantry to Have Honor
Position in the
Demonstration
A big parade, with the First Pennsylvania
Infantry marching In the position of honor,
was scheduled today for 10 o'clock Mon
day morning by the councllmanio commit
tee In charge of the jubilee for the Phila
delphia trpops returning from the Mexican
border.
The time was fixed for the parade on the
receipt of a telegram from Colonel Charles
C Allen, commander of the First Reglmt it,
that his troops would not arrive tn Phlla.
delphla until late Sunday night or. early
Monday morning. The unit, which en
trained In three sections af El Paso yestert
day, would arrive Tiers Friday, it was
thought at first, but the slow progress ot
the three troop trains northward caused a
postponement of the celebration here.
The Tlhrd Pennsylvania Infantry, Phlla-,
delphla'a other "luoky" regiment, was
scheduled to entrain for the homeward trip
from 191 Paso today, and probably will ar
rive a day later. This regiment, under the
command of Colonel Kemp, will receive no
less a hearty welcome than, the men of
the First.
PATRIOT8 TO PARTICIPATK
The Special Joint Councilmans .Commit
tee on Military Affairs speeded up arrange
ments for the homtoomlng reception whn
It was learned that the arrival of the Arsi
two detachments ( soldier beys was only
a matter el a few 4ays. All of the jaatrhHie.
orgaplaattea of theHy wUI MnJU In gWlsg
tke returatag 44fr Wys aiie t the biggest
f
ea Pat Jrtw. Oalseea
TROLLEY JUMPS TRACK
AND KILLS ELECTRICIAN
Camden Man Dies Instantly
When Buried Under Wreck
age at Riverton
One man was killed and another peiliup
fatally injured at Rlverton, N. J., when a
trolley car Jumped the track this morning
and crashed Into the supports of tho flag
man's signal tower of the Pennsylvania
Railroad at the Main street crossing, top
pling the tower house to the ground.
L. A. Bard, of Camden, who was work
ing at the baee of the tower, heard the
crash and started to run He went directly
In the path of the tower house which bore
him to the ground, crushtnr out his nr.
The injured mun is Joseph Hcssley, of
Dordentqwn. He was taught between the
end of the trolley car and the Iron frame
work of the gate on which he was woik
lng. Heuley was hurried to the Zuibrugg
Memorial Hospital at Riverside, where he
was found to be suffering from set ere In
ternal hemorrhage and many cuts and
bruises. An operation was performed at
once and the hemorrhage stopped.
The structure that was wrecked was" to
have "been removed in a revv days, an soon
as the work on which the men were en
gaged was completed.
i ' ' ' " "
Legislative Nomina jo n Filed
IIAKRISetURQ. Pa.. Oct. 4Nomlnatlou
papers were filed tMay at ths State Depart
nwt fr Al MuKtern. F. K. Scullln and O
p, Lyfteh, Jr.. Ualte Lahr party can
(We far the LeajUlatW frern the Sew
wUwth district in FhtlejMsMa. J, T.
Mwson. Wachipglun party candMate for
We. Less'-nc O'f live Vj-t DlslriU In
" U3l, i Ml' ' i ltlMSVl,
QUICK NEWS
BOSTON..
PHILLIES.
0-0 0
20 0 x
, ' v
NEW YORK...,, t 111
BROOKLYN.... ' 0 0
WASHINGTON... .5 O 6 1 O 1 0,0 1 , 3 60
NEW YORK, 1st g..0 O 1 1 O 0V2 x- 4 ' 8 1
Slmw find Henry; Russell and Waltcn.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Second Lnurol race, steeplechase, handicap, 3-ycnr-olds nnd up,
about 2 miles Llghtnrms, 130, F. Johnson, $0.50, $4. DO, $3.40, won;
New Haven, 132, Cvnwfovd, ?1.G0, $3.40, second; Sun King, 150,
r. Willinms, ?2.00, third. Time, 3.4d 3-5.
first Lmucl incc, 2-ycar-olds, 0 furlongs Daddy Longlegs, 112,
Keogh, $15.00, $4.80, $3.40, won; Dccrtrnp, 122, Butwell, $2.00,
$2.00, second; Lively, 112, Schuttlnger, $4.10, third. Time, 1.13 2-5.
WILL SEND REMAINING GUARD TO BORDER
I ANIONIO, Tex., Oct. 4. General ruuston, commnudcr-lu-chlof
i the Ameitcan foiccs on the Mexican uordor, today was noti
fied by tl:e War Department that all mllltla units still rcmalulng lu
Stale ciuui-s would be sent to the border. Thc&e units comprlso a
brlgadu Irom GcCigta nnd Florida nnd n Colorado regiment, West
Virginia cavnhy and scattered auxiliary regiments from Now Hampshire.
PENINSULA WATER COMPANY DISSOLVES i
TItENTON, Oct. 7. Tho Peninsula Whter Company, with offices
in Camden, todny filed n certificate of dissolution with Secretary of
State Mai-tin. The concern, n $150,000 corporation, was chartered to
do business in Berkeley township, Ocean County.
GREEK CABINET HAS 'DEFINITELY RESIGNED"
LONDON, Oct. 4.A Bcuter dispatch from Athens this after
noon loported that the Greek Cabinet 1ms "definitely resigned."
(Eailler dispatches fioni Athens today stated that Premier Kaiogcro
pouloj mid Foicign Minister Carnpanos were to retain their posts.
The above dispatch is believed to mean that their positions, too, be
canio uufouaolc, probably oecause- of opposition from tho Enteuto
Ministers In Greece who have refused throughout to recognize
Kalogeropoulos.) '
I
PRICE ONUJ CENT
NATIONAL BODY
SHOULD PROBE
BALL SCANDAL
Ban Johnson Contends It Is
Only National League
Affair
McGRAW MUST EXPLAIN
DETECTIVES NAB "MONEY MACHINE" THIEVES
i I'lTTSUUItGH, Oct. J. Borne of tho best exploits of Old Kins BiaUy and Nick
Carter vvero rivaled by Detectives I.ully und Left today, when they mre-itcd o, band of
aliened money-machine crooks. After the detectives hud outvtitted "HpottcrH" for
the Bane by holding: up two aiitomobllUt.i and 'boirovvlns" ovcicoutu, hats and suit
cases for dlMgulxo they grubbed tho crowd Juat us threo forclcneix weie about to
fork over $500 each for tho supposed comitci felting apparatus.
VISITING MISSIONARY TO RELIEVE SICK PASTOR
The Jtev. Or. (Seoige II I'crrls, liasloi- of th h'liit Ilaptlut Chinch, Seventeenth
and Sonhoiu htiectx, Is conllntd to hlx home, 7 JO IIuculii dilvc, with an attack of
sciatica, which for iiioiiUim thieatened to ptevuit his occupylu; his pulpit. Ills
place will bo uiipplled Stiudav iiiornlut," by tl.e lo. Dr. ..lohn 1.. Dealing; the
church' foiclKii jj.utor, stationed ut Yokohama Japan, for twntj-keveii jcara, who
ia In this round v dii u fuilxuh, Do tor Demi" v.'ll' be? hi -i peilrs of four "Wednes
day nlstht conference on "Tho I'lnlxtjati Jloveicmt In Janfii" at tin church tonlsht.
He and .Mix. Dmilnij will lie the gucKtH of Doctor und iliM. l'tuls for a month.
Doctor J-'euU mav lit- auMU'Itutl icconl tu preach tiuudu) uUht.
FRANCE FURTHER RESTRICTS IMPORTS FROM U. S.
"WASHINGTON, Oct, 4. Decrees further restricting Importations Into France
were received at the Stute Department today from the Consul General at l'arle.
The new decrees piohlblt the Importation of papeie, caidboaid, laboratory Klaus
ware and bioniluin, The decree will serlouHly affect Ameilcan Blaim manufucturere,
who hne b-cn inuklug: an effoit to build up un rxpoit market in France.
U-ROATS SINK 35 SHU'S IN NINE DAYS
liKltlJX, Oct. 4 -f lei man suhminlnea between September 20 and 2 nunlt In
the North Sea 'und the 1,'iirIUIi Channel thiity-live hodtlle easels, with a total
tonnaeo of H.COu, the UciHcan Nouh Aeenty uiinoinjfed toduv. The vemielH de
stroyed 'ate In addition to rlvvril Kiislih Iluliliirr boats und four Uclghm llehters
prevlouoly ioorted
HIUTAIN INCREASES EXPORT EMHARGO LIST
WASHINGTON, t't. I -Otent Uiltwln has further Inci eased Us expoit embargo
Hat, according to a cablegram from Consul Geneiul Skinner at Loudon, made publlo
here today vTht principal additions to the prohibited list Include steel and eteel
manufactuiee suitable for utte in the uunufacture of mlllruiy supplies, linen, lubber
manufactuies, fruit, pteervee, poultry and canned vegetables.
SHACKLETON TO SAVE STRANDED POLAR PARTY
SANTIAGO, Chill. Oct t TJeutenant Sir Kiueat Snauldeton has ub&ndoneU
the idea uf valllnfi for JinalanU thiH velc Hutu Uuenoi Aires, and will plotted to
Auitrulfu to (omniaud an expedition to lesoue ten uietnbeis of the Shackluton
party who were left with scanty provisions on the west side of the South Polar
Continent. Thene men were on land wtien tneir ship, tne Aurora, was caught In the
Ice and carried away.
NEUTRALS' PLEAS WIN PARDON FOR BELGIAN SPIES
IX)NDON, Oct, 4,4rUaron on Uteslnv. German military coventor of Belgium,
lias pardoned twenty-two Belgians, among them thiee women and two girls, and the
Burgomaster of Nanvur, all .of whom had been sentenced to death for swing,
according to an J-JiCvhange Telegraph dispatch froin Ainjteidam. Tho iwrdon Was
extended s the result of protest filed by the American and Hpanlsh Ministers and
the Papal Nuncio tn Belgium.
RUMOR OF FORD STEEL PLANT IN PITTSBURGH
PITTSBVItail, Oct, 4, Henry For ma4e a toUr of the bl steel manufacturing
p tests in thle district lt yetrUy, ccoint4 by miwiI of his owm egUra,
He refud to discuss a report that he was plamiin the orectlon of a steel plant
Which wouM supply the rem autaoMK wrk throughout the oaiurtry.
ft
II 11 to Pay If That Occurred
In American League, Says Dan
NEW YORK, Oct. A.
T)AN JOHNSON, president of the
JJ American League, was- outspoken
in condemnation of McGrnw's ac
tion. "Personally," he said, "I
think It was nn outrage nnd lml it
occurred in tho American League
there would have been hell to pay."
"Will the commission take the
matter up?" he was asked.
"That is a matter for the National
Lcaguo to settle. If they uro not
bis enough to handle it, they should
go out of business," replied Johnson.
Garry Herrmann wus seen in his
room at the Wnldorf, but had noth
ing to sny in connection with yes
terday's game in Brooklyn.
"This is the first I had heard of
the incident," he snid. "At first I
thought it was a joke."
"Do you still consider it a joke?"
"No, I believe now it was a d
fool act."
He declined to say whether the
National Commission, of which ho is
chairman, would act, The next meet
ing of the commission will be held
in Boston next Friday. The report
that a meeting would be held today
proved to be erroneous,
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
NEW YORK, 6ct. 4. Ban Johnson,
president of the American League, Insists
that the fiasco In Brooklyn ycnterday does
not concern the junior organization In any
way and thut he will not consent to a meet
ing of the National Commlrslon to prob
the charges made by John McQraw and
the playing of the Olants yesterdav. Tin
"Czar" Insists that, the. National League
handle tho affair on Its own hook, but ths
affair really Is a baseball malterW na
tional Importance and" nhould bp acted
upon by the supremo body of baseball, and
not In a hsty manner.
A great attempt Is being m&de t& covsr
UP the bungle which virtually gave "Brook
lyn the National Iurueppcnnant, thanks
to the double victory ofMhe' Braves ovsr
the fhlllles. Interviews bj" the score arl
being handed out to cover Up the greatest
scandal in the history of the national
game, but they failed and the National
Commission was fenced to act
Writers point out the fact that ths
Olants were suffering fronfl reaction after
the run of twenty-nix consecutive victories,
and that the total of base hits clearly indi
cates thut tho Dodgers elugged their waj- to
victory; but all the statements of league
presidents, baseball writers and partisan
funs cannot convince a large percentage of
the IG.OOO fans who attended the game that
the Olants tried to win.
It Is possible that the Giants tried their
best and really were suffering reaction, ,
but when a major league ball team that
showed such great possibilities a few days
before and had just completed a recor'
run of twenty-six consecu'lve victories
plays baseball as New Tor did, there Is
only one conclusion to draw that they did
not tare particularly about winning. '
COULDN'T FIX GAME.
One would be foolish to make the claim
thut the game was a deliberate sell-out.
as II would be. Impossible to fix a ball
game ; but to our way of thinking", when an
aggregation of ball players make no greater
attempt to earn their eulary than they dd
yesterday, it virtually is the same things
It the Giants had fought the Dodgers
after they had taken the lead there woull
have been absolutely nothing to the game,
as Brooklvn had crumbled badly; but lie
Graw's men, with few exceptions, played
the hand-shaking game, which Is known
among ball players as a friendly contest,
though decided on Its merits.
Brooklyn was game. One piust hand
them that They were trvlnc and; taking a
healthy cut at the ball, but they were a
disorganized and worried aggregation, an
could easily have been taken off their feet
with a show of aggressiveness on the. part
of the Giants.
Instead of being aggressive and hustling
to hold the lead they had gained, the Giants
played a most listless game. It would not
have been so bad if the apparently poor
fielding breaks, such as bad-bounding balls'
and hits going Just out of the fielder's reacl,
had been of the every-day variety, but thty
vreie not.
FLAY WAS lNDIFFDnUNT
In the first place the Infield played totally
different for the various hitters than they
usually play, while the outfield was sta
tionary. Balls continually were thrown tes
the wrong base and chances to maWe sue
itsiful plays were pavstd up with, such ,
legulartty that one could hardly believe, it
was possible that the Giants were anHkJag
but a high school team,
The climax was reached w"hn tanager
?IcQrw refused to remain In the ban passt,
declaring that he was dUgusted wMfe Mm
work of hi teanu lie said that 4m lvr
would tolerate lodlttereoee and rtlinsisi
pf his intrvKtkw uti as the Giastts wr
CeaUMtl Fsse Year. Cslsw T
New Japanese Knvey Greet U. 8.
BKATTLK. Oet. t. Dr. Almare Seta,
the new Amtasaadec fro. JapaA te tM
UfriUJ tHiilm, was a gnus at heat
dlMter Kn tost aM by Judg Vbssiun
Burke, 9reeVat the Seattle Cpemsjf el
Commerce. "It measace wfctah I brlivg '
frern the people of JsfMJt to ths opU
Um Utl Mm Is nothing tat tn
aaatwanosj) of rrlnetsu an gu4 ut,
'' I ksvew the latter people wlU rtfSgv-
vale Ucyjskta full saeaevire," sgjM.
.
