ROUM work. I b~V 2WINao'ur fresh obythf
hours' sieep--so theWI f4evs fIs P O
I The 2 bour' woph-In stor the fact that the m pap
reading of th morng he is the N . . , presentang 6 ws
hours of play and I bour of sleep fa6- wNe it is and ta There
low the publitbing of the evening -. is a difference between arte mad "ve.
per. Morning Vaper advertistag is mUf write" and that diffevence is the df.
durngth dy.ference between morning andeeag
newspapers.
NO. 3638. WaEE-COUDY. WASHINGTON, D. C. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 96 N ET
10 LOSE LIVES
IN CAR CRASH
Fifty Injured When Coaches
Fall Through Bridge.
tBy the .ter.at.al New. Service.>
t'!e'eland. Ohio. Oct. 3.-Between five
and ten persons were killed and fully
fifty were injured late this afternoon
when the north span of the West Third
Street Bridge collapsed under the weight
of two heavily loaded street cars.
The two cars dropped a distance of
$wenty feet Into the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad tracks which skirt the river
edge.
One street car fell In such a position
as to land upside down. The other car
remained right side up, but was wrecked
by the heavy girders and beam. of the
bridge falling on It.
Many of the injured and some of the
dead were women. The care were erowd
ad to oapacity. as the accident oceurred
during the rush hours at 6:30 p. M.
At latest reports twenty-ftiv had been
taken to hospitals and one body remained
in the wreckage.
The accident was caused bv two street
cars colliding on the bridge and running
to one edge of the span. A steep Incline
leads to the north end of the bridge and
just before the bridge Is reached there
is a sharp turn in the street. While
proceeding down the hill the motorman
on a southbound oar lost control of the
ear and collided with a wagon. This
threw the car from the track and onto
the bridge just in time to meet a north
bound car. The two cars met head-on
and the force of the impact threw them
to one side of the bridge span over the
railroad tracks. The span collapsed.
Police and firemen with ambulance
a-tendants draggtd the passengers, most
of them unconsiout. out' of the wreck
age and carried tht:n into a nearby
warehouse. wher- 1rot aid was admin
.ttred. Later ic were taken to hos
Itals on to ;mdlrt:vz rooms.
1,050 PRINCETON MEN
WILL SUPPORT HUGHES
\lore Enrolled in G. 0. P. League Than
Belong to Wilson Club.
New York. )t. X1-The Hughes Na
t - C' ol' rl. I-4-ue announces that in
cludel in its membership of 35.0N0 it has
o, enrollment of more than 1,% Prince
tir a>ni. or Ixty-two times as man%
. he National Woodrow Wilson Colege
Mlen ILeae,. which has a total enroll
mi-t of sevent Cfn.
the National Woodrow Wilson Col
lee Men's League cares to question these
frers." said National Campaign Man.
neer (eorge Rleokaw Compton, of the
Ilthes National olleze League. "we
-n In repeat r pr' : ur offer to let
any r-putable auditor it New York check
up the enrollments of Princeton alumni
and- rs, their total enrollments from
all -e ., and urs. or their total en
rol rneti Iri any ollege they may s
- . , .. zutrnt,. th. or
r n on ftiures. of course,
and ha Iho e of the Wilson Leagne on
tdtable athr iy. We are only too
anxis fotr his comarson. if they will
rteno ot of the woods."
MI- motn rubbed in his challenge
hy annoc.m oha er..rl graduates of
I . tn Prsident Wilson's own uni
It a ..ap ad :.w limelIght to
~anizatijon.
ar Hi Iilenry. Princeton '76, and a
trat- the uriversity. accepted the
Siof the Philadelphi1 hrnch
C , 15K. Lea;Zue. fre 1,
"r I rn e. all Princeton mon,
7 sa.1 .I Ro'-ld, Jr., Princeton '06,
Sake har of branches
OCTOBER 28 CHOSEN AS
WOODROW WILSON DAY
Parades, Music. Speeches and Fire
works Arranged by McCormick.
fBy the International News Service.)
Ne. Yk - Ater . has h-n
ste, red as Wo-drow Wilsion Day.- Thi,
statement was made by Democratic Na
tional rhairman McCormick today. There
will be parades, music. spee-hes and fire
works.
It s proposed to have. WIlson mass
ernetinzs slirltaneously In every city and
vilage in ti country.
t hether the President will talk at
Shadows Lawn or elsewhre is yet to be
determine I cha:rman McCormIrk ar
ranged wit hin Monday night that he
speak at "in ninati. Ohio. October 26.
Navhe lhe wil: participate in the Madison
Square demroonrat on the night before
the Preid n l election. Other New
York date have yet to be fixed.
When 'ol. toosevelts "We've got Wil
son and Sieahory beaten" was reported to
Chairman M.-Cornri-k tonight he replied:
"The Wilson campaign is swinging right.
It will b. swpet for Wilson In November.
I ami sbindantly satislied with the way
the New York carnpaign is being conduct
ed Esvery body is at work for Wilson.
My compliments to Col. Roosevelt and
say that he is wrong and that we will
prove It November 7."
LOST AVIATOR FOUN~D.
Lawree Sperry Pieked Up at Sea
by TUE-.
Rtoston. O-t . -Lawrence Sperry. New
York aviator ard inventor, was picked up
at sea hy a lug shortly before noon
today after he had been forced to alight
ont the water walle flying from Lynn to
Marblehead. Hec had run out of gaso
line when miles off shore. He was unt
harmed and his machine was not dam
aged.
Sperry had not been heard from since he
left Lynn last night and early today
searchers were sent out to get a trace
of him. Three aviators flew for hours
over the water, while a tug sent out from
the Charleston Navy Yard also assisted
In the search.
'. Norwegian Ship Torpedoed.
London. Oct. 3.-The Norwegian steam
ship Tyr has been torpedoed in the North
Sea, according to a Central News dis
patch from Amsterdam.
There, are two Norwegian vessels named
Tyr. One, a ahip of .8 tons gross, hails
from Bergen; the other, of 2,23. from
ernmsb-r
SLAYS AGZD ZRW
Alaa Cemease to Kiney WeaE4
Thee Doy" Atte. Weaig.
Grand Rapids, MAch. Oct. L
James Allen. aged 64. of Ashtabula.
Ohio, tonight confessed to Proecutor
E. N. Barnard that he killed- his bride
of three days. Alleth married Mrs.
Anna H. St. John, of yfield, N. Y.,
on September 19, three weeks After
he saw her advertisement in a matri
monial paper. She was found dead
September b2. She was 55 years old.
In his confession tonight. Allen de
clared that his wife tried to rob and
kill him and pleaded self-defense. He
said she tried to steal his money the
day after the wedding.
GIVE JOINT REPLY
French and British Act To
gether on Mail Seizures.
England and Prance have acted
jointly in replying to the American
protest against interference with the
mails. Not until yesterday was it
known that France would reply si
multaneously with England and that
she would send an identical note.
The State Department now believes
that the note will not be merely
"identic," but that it will be a single
note signed jointly by the two pow
ers. This conclusion was arrived at
following the receipt of a message
from the American Embassy in Paris
stating that the French reply, identi
cal with the English. had been for
warded by mail on September 29 to
the French Ambassador at Washing
ton for delivery to Secretary Lansing.
Unofficial information received at the
Department some days ago had it that
the E-nglish reply %%as mailed in London
on September 22 and would arrive on the
Philadelphia. When the note did not
come on the Philadelphia, It was said
that it m!ght ,e on the Pannonia. The
British Embassy professes to have no
Information. except that the note was
"on its way."
Putting two and two together, yester
day the rDooertment officials concluded
that the Engiihlh note had been sent to
this country by way of Parts and that
when it arrives here It will have the
added force and significance of a joint
-er Iv fr-m the two powers whose fleets
untrol the Atlantic.
MEXICO MUST BE SAFE
BEFORE U.S. MEN ENTER
State Department Will Not Encourage
Return of Americans Yet.
(By the Interastiemal News SerVe.)
Atlantic City, N. J., Oct. 3.-The gov
ernment of the United States cannot
eneourage the return of Americans to
Me'"o until sttisfactory assurances are
given with reference to safety of life
and property In the district In which
mintng operations are to be resumed.
In this official statement today the
American delegates of the Mexican peace
conference admitted the inability of this
nation to protect the lives and property
of Anermcani in Mexico in splte of Car
ranza's 4atest promuies.
The statement was issued as a reply
to American mining men who appealed
for sufficient protection to send back their
American superintendents and foremen
to Mexico and re-open their mines.
Mter the conference with the Ameri
can delegates yesterday the mine repre
sentatives decired I, make a direct ap
teal to the Mexican
Former Judge 1'. .1. Tliaff, attorney for
Phelps-Dodge & C.. of New York. had
lincheon with Senor "abrera, head of the
I'arranza delegation., Later the mining
man talked with S nors PanI and Bo
nilla.
CHICAGO MAN EN ROUTE
TO CLAIM BODY OF WIFE
I F- wartz, of Chicago, who believes
the body of the woman found drowned in
the river Sunday afternoon. September
21 is that of his wife, is en route to Alex
andria to identify the body.
C. T. Goods., hief of the Alexandria
police, shortly before 6 o'clock yesterday
afternoon received a telegram from Mir.
Swartz, dated Chicago Junction. 4>hio.
saying Mr. Swartz would arrive in Alex
andria at 7:10 o'clock this morning to take
charge of the body of Mary Swartz.
SUSPECT TRIPLE MURDER.
No tight Yet Thrown on mystery
of Three Wonmen Found Dead.
Lancaster. Ohio, Oct. .-James A.
Tobin, prosecuting attorney, announces
that a rigid Investigation of the mys
terious deaths of Misses Agnes and Alice
ISmetters antI Miss May Stretton, who
were fuond dead seated in chairs in the
parlor of the "Old Smetters Mansion,"
in this town. Sunday night, would he
made upon the theory that the women
were victims of a triple murder. Twenty
four hours afterthe tragedy, the police
and coroner's inquiry has failed to dis
close any substantial evidence of how the
three women met their deaths.
INDIANS TO HOLD ELECTION.
Passamaquoddy Tribe Will vote for
Governor Thursday.
Eastport, Me., Oct. a-The Passamna
quoddy Indians, on the Pleasant Point
Reservation, will hold their quadrennial
election next Thursday. A governor, to
whom the State pays $50 a year; a lieu
tenant governor, salary $25, and minor of
ficials are to be elected,
Exciterpent runs high. IndIans who
have been off the reservation are return
ing to vote. There are no political parties
and each voter writes a ballot for the
candidate he prefers. But, it Is said, poor
Lo is not unacquainted with repeating.
WOULD LOWER TARIFFS.
Officials Want Duties em Bouth
America. Canned Goods Cut.
Counsellor Polk, of the State D~epart
ment; Secretary of Commerce Redileld,
and representatives of American canning
industries yesterday afterncon began a
conference here preparatory to diplomatic
efforts by the U'nited States to have
South American countries iower the tariff
duties on American canned goods im
ported there.
Canning goods manufacturers reported
the new high tariffs, effective since, the
European war began, have almost driven
American canned goods fren the 36it
DODGERS CINCH
RACE FOR FLAG
Win From Giants, While the
Braves Defeat Phillies.
Wilbur Robinson's Brooklyn Dodgers
are the 1916 champions of the National
League.
The Dodgers clinched the pennant
yesterday afternoon, when they de
feated the New York Giants. 9 to 6.
while the Boston Braves thrilled the
Rub City fans by capturing a double
header from the Dodgers' only con
tenders, the Phillies.
The race for the pennant was one of
the most thrilling in the history of the
league and Interest has been at fever
heat.
Robinson's Flatbush flag winners to
day are two and one-half games ahead
in the league standings. Both the
Quaker City club and the Dodgers
have two games to play before the
final curtain falls In the National oir
cuit. Should Pat Moran's Quakers
win both games and the Dodgers lose
their two remaining contests with the
Giants. the Brooklynites would finish
one-half a game ahead of the Phillies.
Should this problematical outcome
materialize, the standing of the con
tenders would be as follows:
W. L. Pet.
Brooklyn Dodgers.... 93 61 .604
Philadelphia Quakers. 92 61 .601
The standings after the conclusion
of the games yesterday were:
W. L. Pat.
Brooklyn Dodgers.... 93 59 .612
Philadelphia Quakers. 90 61 .696
The Dodgers won out in the gruel
ling race because the Phillies cracked
yesterday afternoon under the terrific
strain they havA endured almost since
the season began.
While the Dodgers were winning the
National League flag by beating the New
York Giants over in Brooklyn, the Na
tional Commission was holding the meet
CONTNt'iED ON PAGE TEN.
GERMANS WAGE BAliLE
ON FIELDDEEP IN MIRE
British Resist Strong Attacks in Somme
District.
(By the International News service.)
London. Oct. 3.-Despite unfavorable
weather conditions, heavy rains in the
last 48 hours have transformed the battle
reld into a morass, the desperate tighting
on the Somme continues without respite.
The last day has found the Germans
attempting strong counter-attacks and
Berlin claims to have wrested trenches
from the British north of Thiepval.
Against this, however, the British have
.u ve-ded in advancing fsrther toward
Bapaes from Eaucourf L'Abbaye,
11r Vv lighting is still proceeding In that
- The most striking gain of the day was
regstered by the French in a violent
action north of Rancourt. An Important
Ormen trench was stormed and 130 Ger
mans were taken prison'rs
There was hard fighting. according to
the French report. in both sides of the
important Rapaume-Peronne highroad
while a German attempt during the night
to debauch from the St. Vaast wood was
broken up by the French fire.
RUTHLESS VIOLENCE
MARKS MILK STRIKE
(By the International News Nervice.)
New York. Oct. 3.-Violence, which
4n ruthlessness surpasses that of the
most riotous days of the New York
traction strilse, has begun to mark the
war between the big milk dealers and
th- up-State farn:ers.
Irving P. Waite, of Wingdale. lies
in a Ilmchess 'ount. hospital at the
point of death. Men lying in ambush
behind bushes set upon him while he
was trying to take a load of milk tc
the station. He was beaten into un
consciousness. Thousands of gallons
of milk have been emptied in the
roadside ditches of New York and New
Jersey and at many points ribbons of
red in the white rivulets testify tc
hot hand-to-hand fights.
MILITIA HANDED BOUQUETS.
Gen. Fonston Praises New York,
Iown and Other Units.
Satn Antonio, Tex.. Oct. 3.-Returning
front a five days' inspection of the militia
in the Brownsville district. Gen. Funstor
teday handed out these boquets:
"The best riders are the New York
Cavalrymen; the most soldierly-looking
men are the Iowa regiments; the most
impressive physically j ever saw are the
Wisconsin and Minnesota men, and the
best orcated camp is that of the Texas
Brigad,- at Corpus Christi.
AT 80. PERISHES IN WOODS.
Woman Found Dead After Thunder
storve with Toys Near.
State College, Pa.. Oct. 3.-Mlssing from
her mountain home for the last four
days. and unsought until Yesterday, the
body of Mrs. John Wood, an 80-year-old
woman, was found by State College stu
dents who formed searching parties and
combed the forests after the alarm had
been sent out.
Beside the dead woman were pieces of
broken glass and some wild crab apples.
It is thought she perished during the se
vere thunderstorm that swept this region
Thursday night.
lAP SMAYER GIVEN FREEDOg.
Prisoner to Be Released om Uengl
tion He Quit U. 3.
Shun Shimada, a Japanese, who killed
a white man in Alaska several years ago.
and who now is serving a life ,term at Mc
Neill Island Penitentiary, Washington,
can have his freedom If he Will leave the
United States and pay his own way back
to Japan.
President Wilson directed yesterday
that If Shimada comp~es with thIs condi
tion, his sentence Shall expiren immedi
ately.
Raid on Geruan Air Base.
London, Oct. 3.-BrItish aeroplanes raid
ed a German airship shed Bear *Brussels
yesterday, the admiraly announced to
day.
.Redueed Fsi-es for Voters.
Southern Railwa3'. Consulaelut
Telegraph Tips
Omaha. Na. Oct. 1,-Damage of 1150,000
was Caused early today by fire in the
packing plant of Morris & Co. here.
Chicago. Oct. 3.-Chicago garment work
Ot, numbering 20,000, will work only
forty-eight hours a week without a re
duction In pay after December 1, and
1000 pacek:g-house laborers will get an
increase of 2 1-1 cents an hour on a ten
hour day, according to simultaneous an
nouncements by their employers today.
London, Oct. 3.-Th Amsterdam corre
spondent of the Central News reports
that a mass meeting held at Frankfort
adopted a resolution in favor of early
peace,
Boston. Oat. .-The first step in the
battle of New England farms to procure
a higher price for their milk from the
large c ntractors in Boston has been
won. One lase contractor and three
small ones have agreed to pay the pro.
ducers the prie demanded, 60 cents for
an average eibit and a half quart can
of milk,
New York. Oct . --Edward A. Leet,
convicted on She charge of blackmail
lng of Edwaut Lauterbach, noted New
York lawyer, today was sentenced to
from four to eht years at hard labor
in Sing Sing. Leet Is said to have
extorted $100.000 from Lauterbach
during the last fifteen years.
London. Oct .--As a result of the
Rounanlan invasion of Bulgaria. Field
Marshal von Mackensen has ordered
the evacuation of the captured 'fort
resses of Tutrakan and Silistria by the
Bulgarians. says a Rome wireless dis
patch this afternoon.
Laredo, Tax.. Oct. 3.-Charged with
burglarising a jewelry store here last
night, Privates Charles Booth, Charles
Brown and Albert Pinson. Company I4
First New Hampshire Infantry. were
arrested today. They confessed. All
three pre from Berlin, N. H.
M.ontAal. Que.. Oc 3.-Fire today prac
,tically razed to the ground the flive-story
boot and shoe factory of Aird & Sons,
on Ontario street. No lives were oat.
Atlantic City. N. J., Oct. 3-8-cretary
of the Interior Lane today had a talk
with President Wilson over the long-dis
tance telephone regardi-ng the most feasi
ble plan for the protection of the Mexi
can border. LAne refused to discuss the
conference.
I Albany. N. Y., Oct. 3.-The Court of
Appeals today reversed judgment and
ordered a new trial in the case of WIll
lam V. Cole, a Christian Science healer,
who was fined IM for practicing medi
cine in New York City without a license.
London. Oct. 3.-'A great battle is pro
gressing in the Dobrudja district," the
Petrograd correspondent of the London
Telegraph wired this afternoon.
Shadow Lawn, N. J.. Oct. 3.-Headed
by William F. Brady, a committee ni
prominent motion picture magnates to
day called upon PresIdent Wilson to dia
cums the Woposed law providing a fed.
eral censor4t of notion pictures.
London. Oct., 3.-A British aeroplane
was lost in an attack upon a Germar
aerodrome near Brussels, on Monday, ac
cording to a report issued by the ad
miralty today. The raid was carried oui
by naval machines.
London. Oct., 3.-As a conces-ion 1t
Hungarian feeling. Gen. Von Ars. a Hun
garian. of German descent, has beer
appointed to the command of one of the
Teuton armies in Transylvania, accord
ing to a wireless dispatch from Berne
Amsterdam. Oct. 3.-Germarv is to b
a nation of industrial and finan-lal com.
hines after the war. Dispatches fror
Berlin today state that the cement mak
ing firms are the latest to be merged
The German government is declared tc
be fostering "trusts" as the best meant
to securing foreign trade after the war
London. Oct. .-The lord mayor of
Iondon, in op.ning the King George and
Queen Mary Victoria I-ague Cliub, foe
men of the overseas forces, spoke of hiP
boxing prowess. as a young man. saying
that he had a "cauliflower ear" to show
for his fistic activities.
New York. Oct. 3.-The 85-year-old un
cle of Judge Otto Rosalsky, of the couri
of special sessions, has been sentenced
by the Russian government to lifelong
exile in Siberia on the charge of aiding
the Germans. Judge Rosalsky learned to.
day from his "r.ele's son, an immigrani
just arrived here.
London. Oct. 3.-A movement to se.
cure more men for the British army
will be launched when Parliament con
venes next Tuesday. In this task Par
liament will have the 'co-operation of
the new "man power distributior
board." of which Austen Chamberlair
is chairman.
New York. Oct. :1.-The spade of of.
ficial Inquiry is being dug deep In the
bread situation. Indications are that
prosecutions of several persons wil
result from the recent increase in
prices.
Marshfleld. Mass.. Oct. 3.-Dr. Ralpt
Baker, 35, a prominent dentist of the
south shore, formerly of Boston. today
shot and killed William Cushing, a
local lobster fisherman. on the mair
street in the little village of Green
Harbor, just outside of Marshfield.
Pitsburgh, Pa., Oct. .-Bread and
butter went on the menus in prac
tically all Pittsburgh restaurants to
day as "extra items." The cafe pro
prietors, at a meeting, decided to
charge for bread and butter in the
future because of the increased cost
of bread.
London. Oct. .-Orders for 25,000,000
yards of khakt cloth have been placed
in England by the Russian govern
ment. The Russian army Is being
clothed in khaki.
UYNFURNISHED.
len PAltK tD.-2 ROOMS; KITCHEN,
gzitate bath, electricity, heat, sad
cotinumou hot water; M. Two rooma
lath; boneskeeping; light, heat, s as.,
All front roms.
This little ad, which appears
in the classified columns of to
day's Herald on page 13, is typi
cal of scores of opportunities
that are presented every day in
these columns. There are op
portunities to rent, to buy, to
mortgage, to sell, to exchange,
to get help, to get a job-in fact.
there is hardly a want that isn't
to be filled by consulting the
classified ads in The RemdIf
you fail to find whatWUare
looking for, insert a small want
ad yourself. '"Happy results"
will follow.
RUSSIANS LAUNCH
NEW OFFENSIVE
Great Forces Concentrated for
- Advance on Key Front.
(By the Internatiemal News Service.)
London, Oct. 3.-The Russians, without
lessening their heavy pressure on Lem
berg. bave launched a terrific new of
fensive' on the key front of the east. In
Volhynia, west of Lutsk, great forces
had been concentrated for the new effort
against von Linsingen's army group and
three Austro-German armies, those of
Lieut. Gen. Schmidt von Knobelddorf.
Gen. von Dermarwitz and Gen. von
Teraztyanski bore the brunt of the blow.
An official statement from Petrograd
announces that some progress has been
made in "stubborn fighting." but ac
counts of the battle from Berlin describe
a terrific slaughter which has gained the
Russians nothing.
The offensive was launehed after an
artillery bombardment little less intense
than those on the Somme which are
Amazing the world. The first Russian
troops were sent forward Yesterday
iorning at about 9 o'clock The attack
W!a repulsed Three Russian corps, two
of v.lich were guard corps. bore the
brunt of the fighting. One attempted
twelve times to storm the T-uton posi
tions: seventeen times the soldiers of the
guard went forward only to he driven
back, the German commander reports.
In onle sector north of Zaturcy. the Rus
sians succeeded in entering demolished
Teuton trenches, but Berlin announces
they were driven out by a counter-attack.
The charge is made that Austrian and
German wounded left in the trenches
were slaughtered by the Russians.
go great was the slaughter, Berlin de
clares, that the Russian artillery war
forced to turn its fire on the Russian
trenches in order to drive the foot sel
iters forward to the attack. Curtainb of
lire were lifted behind the Infantry line
to prevent them falling back.
AMERICAN AMBULANCE
WORK SETS STANDARD
Many Lives Saved in France by
Speed. Says Surgeon.
(By - -INternatioal News eriteW
Par- Oct. 3.-Alexis Carrel announced
today an impending reform in the meth
ods of surgery throughout France which
is likely to result in a diminution of
amputations and fatal wounds. He said:
"Grafting of the tissue of the bone and
flesh hitherto he been next to impos
sible owing to the difficulty of transport
ling the wounded from the field to the
hospital before gangrene or infection
have set in.
"The, Americarv aniulance. however,
has demonstrated the possibility, with
an efficient transport department, of get
ting the wounded soldiers from the bat
tietle.ld to the hospital within ten hours.
Heretofore the average delay has been
twenty-four hours. which entailed much
loss of life and many otherwise needless
lamputations.
"The greatest surgical work in this
war has been performed by the Anierican
hospital, owing to Its efficient automobile
section. The surgeons there have achieved
wonders in reconstructing battered faces
and restoring the natural I 1ngth of limbs
and arms shortened by shell wounds by
grafting pieces of hone.
BHLION-DOLLAR CROP
OF COTTON PREDICTED
BSreetl tn 'IN Wamngton Herai.,
Fort Worth. T. O t. .-A billion
dollar cotton crop for this eason is pre
dicted by Henry N. Pope, president of
the Farmers' Union Presidents' Associa
tion. In a state-ent issued today com
menting upon the ginners report issued
yesterday by the Department of Com
merce And Labor
Mr. Pope's statement sayV every indi
catIon now rtIms to a billio,-dollar croi
if properly market-d. The iiKhest aggre
lgate amount received for anv crop here
tofore was in 1913, when the farmers re
ceived nearly ,
"We are now ginning more than 200.j00
bales per day," said Mr. Pope. "At thi
rate the present crop will be practically
out of the fieli by October 20. If the
farmers will market the remainder of
the crop slowly. It will sell for to cents.
FALLS IN FAKE DUEL.
Young Man Dying. Although only
Blank Cartridges Were I-sed.
Pittsburgh. Oct. 3-As a result of a
bloodless duel between Walter Jnnke. 22
years old, and John Honipk. aged 23 late
Sunday ni,%ht. the death ol IHoniek is
expected by physicians, who are puzzled
by the strangest case known in local
medical annals.
Jtunke and Honick had been at odds for
several months. Finally they decided to
settle the feud with pistols at thirty
paces. Friends of the mn, however,
prevailed upon the seconde to substi
tute blank cartridges for ball in the
weapons to be used. At the word both
men began tiring. Sudderly Horick
crumpled up in a heap. Examination de
veloped the fact that ionick was uncon
scious, but unscathed.
WOMAN ASPHYXIATED AT 110.
Defect in Kitchen Rauge Cuts Dlown
Maspeth's Oldest Re~sident,
New York, Oct. 3.-Mrs. Mary Forge.
who, her family say, was 110 years
old. was found dead from gas asphyx
iation in the kitchen of her grana
daughter's home, Mrs. Jeulia Mellows.
Maspeth. Queens. yesterday morn
ing. Coroner Carl Vogel found a de
fective connection of the kitchen
range.
Mrs.. Forge was brought from her
home in Austria to this country
about fi~teen years ago. Her husband
died many years ago, and she is sur
vived by a number of grandchildren.
mxxiHITS SEVE crM
Capitol District of New York sur
fers froma Traetion Walkout.
Albany, N. Y., Oct. 3.--Troy, Cohoes,
Watervilet, p3reen Island and Water
ford, as well a. Albany and Rensse
laer, colnprIsing all the cities of the
capitol district, with tae exception of
Sichnectady, are now in the gripe of a
great trolley strike. The Troy Local.
No. 132, Amalgamated Order of Str'eet
Railway Emnployes, voted at an early
hour this rumring to strike in sympa
SURn AIRTES OUTLAWED.
A!ssM Pat Undernem Beats 3e7S
Pale of IMw.
London. Oct. &.-A white paper lesne
by the official press bureau today gives
the following as the allied government's
opinion regarding the treatment to be
accorded belligerent submarines in neu
tral waters:
"Submarines should be excluded from
the benefit of the rules hitherto recogniz
ed by the law of nations regarding the
admission of vessels of war or merchant
men to neutral waters. roadways or
ports and sojourning there. Belligerent
submarines entering a neutral port should
be detained."
BANKERS PROTEST
Expect Decision Soon on Di
rectorate Situaqion.
Announcement was made last night
by William P. G. Harding. of the Fed
eral He. rve Board. that the board would
announee its decision in a few days re
g- dng tie a. W. ashington bank di
rectors who anpeared yesterday in an ef
fort to show t' .- r as n, substntiUa
conpI ttion" btween the d ffrer.t inti
tutions they re;,rerented.
William J. F!ather, Atexander Wolf.
Albert F. Gatley and Frank B. Noyes
are the men aho are seeking to have
the ruling of the board regarding their
presence on the directorstes of two bank
ing Institutions reversed They all ap
Peared in person, with the exception of
Mr. Noyes, who was represented by John
Poole.
The Clayton act, passed in 1"14. re
stricted the service of a director to one
board.
'It took the position." said Alexan'er
Wolf. 'that all financial institutions
were in competition. The Kern ameond
ment, which went in fore last May. pro
vided that where there Us 0no 'substan
tial competition' and when the Federal
Reserve Board gave its cons-nt a director
may serve on as many as three boards.'
Mr. Wolf. who in a director In the Sec
ond National Bank and the Bank of
Commerce and Savings, stated to the
board that there as no suhetantIa enm
petition between the two institutiris
"The Second National Bink.-' h-e ,d
"Is primarily a commercial :rst.tutnn
while the Bank of Commerce and Savings
'OOeTrN1"M ON PAGE TWO.
GERMANY'S WAR LOAN
NOW UP TO STANDARD
Berlin Reports Sabecriptions at
(11 the 'Interwetlonal Nev NervIes.)
Berlin ivia London). Oct. 3--1 nofticial
forecasts of the amount of subscriptions
to the fifth German war loan Indicate
that it will exceed the total of the pre
,ceding loan. A banker whose advance
information in regard to the earlir loans
in each ase proved exact ways the Put"
scriptions are for ahead of the amount Pt
the corresponding eriod of subscrptions
to the fourth loan. An investigation by
the Reichshank some days ago showed a
total of subscriptions at that time of
more than L.800S,.W. The suherription
lists close on October -
Although there has been s'me fnetfre
off In small suhscrlptions. It is r-ported
that this has been more than counteractell
by the large subscribers. There are cer-'
tain classes. such as salaried offictals.
who have benefited in no way from the
war and can less easily afford to subscribe
than they could to the fourth loan.
An extremely xlgorous press campai
has aided materially in bringing in su
cei iptions.
NEW PARALYSIS CASE;
FIVE NOW IN CAPITA)4
Another case of infantle paralysis was
r.ort. d .estlrday. making In all fue
a i n- a:p t:ider treatment.
The news victim is a child of 11 months.
%Wendell Woodward. of 1352 Twenty-eightR
street torthwest.
The case of Dr. Htunter. the Health De
partment inspector, who becaIne a vitl'o
of the disease N' hns done so nue" to
fight. was reported rt improved yester
day.
SUGAR CROP, $53.00.000.
Porto Rican Planter. i.rly Re-e1
In New Wealth.
San Juan. Porto Rien. Oct. 3.-Com -
plete statitics of the ougar production
in the Isinnd of Porto Rico for the spasn
recently c losod have ben ronmiiled by
the insular trade. They show that the
island's sugCar output was 4.t3.59 tons,
the greatest prodl;tion on record.
This is an -, - ,f 1.Y ton over
Ith, production of 115, when the sugar
ouput ws. 3 1.11 tons.
iCar men sty this year's crop. prac
ti ally all of which ha, been sold, has'
brouyht an average of Sh cetts per pound
or better. making the crop worth more
than ".(.0m 000.
BURGLAR FEARS HOODOO.
Ask% Court to Sentence Him on An.
other Day Than Thirteenth.
New York, Oct. 3.-When Judge Gibba,
in tht' Brotnx Coutnty Court. set October
13 as the day for sentence for William
Frank, convicted of hutrglary, he asked
Frank if he had anything to say.
"I have," said Frank. "WVill you shift1
lihe date of my sentence to October 11.
13 or 14? ThIrteen was always unlucky
for me."
Judge Gibbs made it October 11. Frank
has served a 10-year term for burglary.
"DRYS" WIN AND IDSE.
Gain Two Connecetient Towns, but
Loe Two Other.
New Haven, Conn., Oct. 3.-WIth a net
gain of two towns to their side the "dry."
were jubIlant today a. a reault of the
small town election. throughout the State.
Six towns-East Granby, Ridgefleid,
Canaan, Simabury. ('ornwail and Plain
field-chatnged from "wet" to "dry" while
Sprague and Griswold switched over to
the 'wets."
i12.00 to Niagare Fall. ad Retur'.
Baltimore and Ohio. last excuralon
7:45 a. am. Oct. .. TIcket, valid for
return within 1-. days. Through trainj
of parlor cars and coachea, with I ueoh
'ont car from Philadelphia vIA Lehigh
T. R. AND TAFT
SAY "HOWDY DO"
Ex-PresidentsExchangeCily
Greetings at Reception.
(BY the Isterattieaml News Servie.)
New York. Oct. 3.-Forraer Presidents
Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard
Taft met according to schedule at the
Union League Club tonight.
Mr. Taft was the first to arrive. He im
mediately became the cantor or an
animated group.
Colonel Roosevelt arrived ooincidestally
with Charles Evans Hughes. He waited
down stairs for a few moments and was
finally taken In tow by George R. Sheldon
and piloted to the reception room The
Colonel led the way when the threshold
was croased. He bowed to several friends
and made his way to the group of which
Mr. Taft was a member. He @book hands
with Robert BLacon. William M. Calder.
FMlhu Root. Chauncey M. Depew. Senator
Albert Fa.ll. of New Mexico. and finalla.
reaching Mr. Taft. hei most ,iatter of
fact greeting took W- Both men1
extended thrr hand' a -- esame tine
It was as , !ac l ; reed that ha
'would not speak flret for. s it, h.
same breath hl t h blurted it. Il-.e,
do - Then Colonel Roopevelt ..-ap
peared Iri the crlw.d The v-ent fri w h-it
a v~hole nation had been preparing a.,
a thing of the p.ast
That shot handetlasp was the on'y
communicat;on Ietwen the Iw met, dei,
Ing the entire evening Their patn, did
not cross in the re-eptlon and spee i
making that followed
The reeption ime iforned under a fls -
draped paint ng of Prerident Inoe.
More tIhan I.W, persons were i ih Iho -
irog ihen th 11: e, -nced t .
E.Ihu Root stood at 'he br'd of tt, ,
Then followel m Fuires-tin Mr liihe.
Col. Roosev-.t. Ch.n -i M I -p. a V
Taft, Gen. Horae Pote, lom Wi-m
Senator Fall. (-ol K- livI g. ot. e.
man. of Rhole lian.' W i:-o M'A
Se'ator Weeks. of Massa -.i t t. < -
von I. Meyer. aomt S. *:ar,
Navy. Robe-i Uare- c-' -or-n
Fortes. of the Pi
At the con-.usi , i- f ti-, r- et- -
guests reaSsembi !,r I l- , -
making. Mr. Root wa ti,- - --
Then foll-wed Mr H11 v -
'elt and Mr. Taft
VON MACKENSEN LETS
TIVO STRONGHOLDS GO
Silistria and Turtukai Evacuated by
Teuton Forces. a
(my the Internatmal news Bervice.0
London. Oct I-Stlmstria sod Turtuka.
Roumanian strongholds seized ti- the
B4.lgars. after the entrance of Roumarn.
Into the war, have been ordered etarti
ated by Marshal von Ma-ketisen, cnt
rnanding it. D' rhrii.i. aR-ording to unof
flcia re-po.r from Paris
The orI,- Is inteptreted here as recog
Tittn of the menace to the PBulgar-Teu
ton line in Dobrudja offered h% the pa
sage of the Danube yesterday h, Ro
raoniar: troops between Rustchuk ad
T rtika. The Bulgarian war offle re
rerts tday that river monitors destro
pontoon bridges on which the I.
t aame statement sets the size ef
tntAdlng for-c at ' several he'
' It is as-umed here to be ch
O e e as o take -are of itsel. ence
to serlrated by the Dan itbe from bipe
ret t. The battle in Diohidlia Ise
pro eeIn g with groat r
the whole1 front from the a
nube
Iret L.Te h o e rn t fr-om-i t
AN WIE S. NAVAL
BASE AT FONS BAY
Admiral Caperton Soon Will Bep%
Surveys and Report on Work.
Fonseca Bay will be converted Into a
tige nava: hase large enough to accom
mii th P entire American fleet Ar
mir iaptrtn. it was stated. will soon
,gin tnsking surveys of the bay and re
poet his work to the Navy Department
i Is ihkely that at this winter's session
of Congresa appropriations will he sug
se'ted for the work. By that time the
tieneral Board of the navy will have dl
gested Airmira Caperton's report
Na-v offi,!. ae- highly -!eased that
lie election of -'atmorro as President
If NIcarau i eared the way for
ohe aeromplihmnit. They sated 'hit the
prInInpal ohlect in obtaining contro- of
the la was to safeguard the Panania
CA Mal
The canal harbor on the PaNiel side
was sid to be 'ngd ..ate for a rende:
vous of the fleet
I lspatches from Admiral raperton re
ported the almost ertain success of
'hamorro at the polls.
It is understood here that within a
nt-colth Julian IrIas. the defeated Liberal
candidate, will appear In Washiniton to
make a protest against this co'intry's
"dragooning' the NIcaragua election
WINDW CLEANERS QUIT.
Neof ion Worker. Demand pin a
Week and Half-Holiday.
New York. Oct. a.-Window cleaners af
filiated with the American Federation of
Labor struck yesterday. There are about
0men out, accordIng to the boese. and
they want $18 a week for tfory-eight
hour,' work, half a day on Saturday,
double pay for Sunday and holiday work
and pay when It rains.
The bossea, It is aaJd. offer M a week.
fifty-one hours' work S We*. a whole day'
off on Saturday and no work on S~uday
or holidays.
Man Confessed te Ripper Orutme, bet
Was Discharged at Respala.
New York. Oct 1.-The Detective as
r-eau is hunting MIchael Slattery. Ei yearn
oltd, who. through and error of the Bridge
port (Corm I police. was relesed from, a
hospital there, after contessing that he
kiiled a young girl. He referred, It ts be
lieved, to Eilinore Cohn. the ripper vic
tim, in New York some time ago.
*I. a SteHrpes Ferry. S1.M Wiushe.
ter and reiurn HaltInmore and OhIo
from 'nion hStation, 5;99 a. ma. Sud.
