A'
r'
"1
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow rain;
northeast winds, increasing to-night.
Highest temperature yesterday, 7a j lowest, 54.
Detailed weather, mull und marine reports on page 111.
IT SHINES FOR. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 34.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1916. Copyright, 1510. b too Sun Printing and PublDhing AoclaUon.
ONE CENT
In flrrter New York.
Jersey (Mr and Newark.
KlMwtier
TWO CENTS.
BROOKLYN WINS
FLAG; M'GRAW
ACCUSES GIANTS
Xpw York Leader Hints Col
lusion After Defeat
by Dodgers.
IXMFKERKNT PLAYING
A HOUSES 31ANA0EK
Loaves Game in Fifth In
11 i 11 jr and Declares He
Is Through.
KOMXSOXllESEXTS
SliAl' AT SUPEKBAS
Insists His Men Won on
Tlioir Merits Baseball
World Aroused.
After llrooklyn had waited sixteen
j-faM for a National League baseball
championship Its hopes were llnally real
inl jestrrday when Wlllicrt Robinson
ltd the best pitching Ktaft In the. league
ami other accomplished guardians to vic
tory over the New York C.lants. Hut
s is centrally the ease where unfortu
i.it" llrooklyn Is concerned, there Is a
(lull! Haw In the llnal finding.
The fault doc not lie with the
Supcrba?, but rather with the opponent
of tV llrooklyn club John J. McGraw's
hretjfor record smashlnc baseball ma
thine. In an eleventh hour statement
Mc'Sraw accused his players of not doing
their best against the Dodgers. He ns-
rtc I that tho team was not a team
hut nine Individual performers striving
tie jalnst tho other. Ho declared that
n'liifcrent playing by the members of
(he (Hants mado the load of their oppo-r.e-n's
llRhter.
Mv!raiv, angry at rebellion anions his
jlMrdlnates, attacked the supreme hon
esty of the national pastime and prao-'-.illy
made charges against his hire
I n.'f, which aroused more than a breath
' scandal to rest upon the heretofore
..rofully guarded, vlrtuoys sport. In
fie heat of the moment McGraw said he
vis through with the (Jlanls and would
rfae to have any further dealings with
i'tn who would deliberately burlesque
tiieba!!.
Dill Not Obey Orders.
"That stuff f the playing of the Giants
w- too much for me," said McGraw
a"tr the game. "I do not believe that
1 !.'i . !"y, 1 rN "e ll"'rnt''y vor'U ,
nijii. uui rtuiiuj' ,
ly orders anil fooled about In a list'
1 manner. When I'errltt wound up
'Ii a man on first base t lost my
'lenre and left the bench. I have.
rued too hard this year to wntch Mich
vin and I refuse tn be connected
t It 1 am through for the year."
McOr.ivv's anger seemed to be aroused
"Ty 11 the game yesterday, in the ,jr(lg0 t,0uBht in Delrolt and
' .1 d Inning he left the bench and rushed hroueht here
t. the field to order Arthur Fletcher h .
.k to his position. Fletcher was In a T . vnTTTTTT Tipti npR AT
I ,ite,i argument with Hube Henton ailObti IJi XUlAJbllL A Vltm.UKjnill.
time. In that Inning the Dodgers
n.ade four runs. In the fifth Inning
v ien, with a Brooklyn runner on first
'-i?e. I'errltt swung his arm around hla
sid preparatory to pitching, nn action
violating every fundamental principle of
(. hlng. Mcdraw's temiier lejt him en-1
1 r.'ly. He quit the field at this point
a 1 gava out tho above statement Imme
tiiately afterward.
Meant Much to McGraw.
In being defeated yesterday
tho
HI nits were forced to be content with
t uith place In tho raro. Whether or
"ot till had anything to do with Mc
.raw's statements could not be ascer
1 ned, Yet It Is a fact that If tho C.lnnts
j!J finish third or better Mel raw Is
I a 1 a bonus above his regular salary.
lie was expecting his team to heat
" "ton In tho race this season nnd no
ti'it felt the loss of the high rating as
' ich as he did the money that would
( ve been his had the club been able to
1 eep up its winning stride long enough
to pus tho Jlraves,
Uter the (Hants had won twenty-six
Mr tight games It wan the general opinion
1 at In this seiles with Hrookljn the New
Y.jik team would be Invincible, Most
r s believed that tho (.Hants were In
ti" tely supeilor tn the present champions
of the league, lierauso of this several
wncers weir nindo that tho Dodgers.
old bo defeated,
Thrre Is absolutely no misplrlnn that
r i -ding and hasebill wete closely con
"' ted in this series, nor has there been
.'' 'nil any olio who caies to state Hint the
n.' wfn weie pri.iirangod and a winner
' t 0 ne l upon. However, the weak
11 n of New Yolk, following so closely
nn us outstanding turength, has
I iig t up a debatable point.
v , i.i rt Hobinson, manager of the
u'rr. Is aroused over the attack of
v invv Itoblnson InsMs that It was w rpmnn the same, which wilt mean
11 " the New York players who quit, but ,inn (m (ncrense In wages due to ex
r. r the leader of the (Hunts. ) . ' work , pM tar ut tmo and a half
' lln ouldn't stand to lose and deserted .,
. . . 1.. .1... , rate.
r. 1 u i, leaving the cues nnd worry on
th Hlulller of Hrrzog," said tho
lli-icik'm nninnger last night. ".Mcdraw
11 I havn been In baseball together for
! rty jears. During that tlmo wn havo
P 'fed Innumerable games and I defy
Jt ''ir.iw or any one else to show me ono
nt 'ho.e games which was not won on Its
ticilts and by honest endeavor.
oil. Onl) an Hxcuse."
'I M-ver heard of u more ridiculous or
rtiHiifiil t.liitement. It In a shame to try
t" t ike away th glory from my boya
e'trr tho determined fight they mndo.
Keyed up to concert pitch my team out
I'laytd, outmaneeuvred tnd outfought
1 " 'ilants. They batted successfully
to i Hint pltchcrn. And after that ter
rible exhibition In tha first Inning my
boys found themselves, Rot together and
furnished their pitcher with a perfect
defence,
"Men raw's statement was made for
rothlni; more or less than to feather hla
Continued on Fourteenth Pag.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE WINS BY
COURT DECISION IN COLE CASE
Practitioner Gets New Trial
State Can't Make It a Crime to Treat
Disease by Prayer.
Albany, Oct. 3, Willis Vernon Cole,
tho New York city Christian Science
Practitioner who for four years lias been
fighting his conviction of the Illegal
practice of medicine, was granted a new
trial to-day by tho Court of Appeals.
Tho decision Is regarded ns a substan
tial victory for the Christian Scientists.
Tho court In substance decided that
while the practice of Chtlstlun Science
III til lro,X,.ni t..ni an . i
iiuiifc ui iMJuuy ins wouiu ,
have come under tho definition of tho
jiracuco oi meuicine, the exception con- person holding liloiself out as a phsl
talned In tho medical license law to the i ,la" "r 1"'al'r of diseases should have
effect that Its provisions should not pre-1 ,h,'" ,M,,'"tl"n' training. skIII and knowl
....... ...i. :, ' . ul prr edgo ndenuate for such purposes.
vent the practice of the religious tenets
of any church" whs broad enough to ln- narur tn Jur- la Held nn F.rror.
of " Chrl.il kt rVfnVt,
empted hem ron i Ln5 .CJ '
Pas' to ,i S C ,
admitted to rir.irtlc, .. .,h,.w "
Concurred In by All Judges.
All the Judges concurred In the opin
ion, which was written by Judge Chase.
Judge Hartlctt In a memorandum with
which he supplemented the general opin
ion said:
"Uut 1 would go further. T deny the
j.uner oi me Legislature to make It
crime to treat disease by prayer." Judge
I in nan nail uoM Hint I .i..t.i . .
,"-i . . """'" "oi re- ims case linn mis iiereiiiinnt, mil engage
fMMed as a crime of Itself to treat dls-1 In the practice of medlclno as alleged In
ease by this method. ' . ,li;tiii,nt. within the dellnltlon
Mr. Colo was convicted In 1912 of the which I have given to you, It Is no de
Illegal practlco of medicine and was fence that he did what he did from nnv
incd 1100. Iff was a sculptor and poet 1 sens.- of dutv or that In. dl.l theH. n. i'
nr.eMtlnn'i.'r0"!, J'!!1""" iv"?
CoIo'h conviction was obtained largely i
arimf, iri I
on uiu irsumony oi .Mrs. i-rnnces Ueiue-
DISASTER ON BRIDGE:
Cleveland Street Cars Collide:
Plunfre Thirty Feet us
Structure Collapses.
Cf.KvKi.AND, Ohio, Oct. 3. Two persons
were killed and more than tlilrtv wen-1
Injured as the result of a street car col-1
liBlon here early to-night. The did are I
Mrs. Clara Dllle, a passenger) and Otto
liorchert. a motorman.
Two cars crashed on the West Third
street bridge, causing the structure to
collapse and precipitating the cars thirty
feet to the Uultlmore and Ohio Kallrnad
track below, where they almost rolled
Into the Cuyahoga Itlver. There were
forty persons on one car and twenty on
the other. 1
The accident occurred when a south
bound Hcranton road car. carrying a I
crowd of women shoppers home at the j
rush hour, broke away from the motor- I
man on n hill and tore down upon the
north approach to the brldco Just as a
north bound car reached the same point, j
The runaway car Jumped the track and 1
struck the north bound car. The coin-1
blned weight of the two cars and the.
.ilnpb ,.f mi nn wnu fun ...tlrl. Tile I
the wooden bridge, which sagged and j
then gave waj'.
The portion of the bridge which fell Is 1
Just north of the river. The bridge was
twenty.flVc jears old and 300 feet long. I
T1)r nia part of t!.f uructure was
,..,.i,a i.. ,h in !.,! mil mi !
replaced the tiime car by another
Senlor' Spokesnmn
Senator's Spokesman Ask I'artr
Leaders to Cnmlilnr CamiialKn.
Mii.waukek, Wis., Oct. 3. That the
'editor of n Madison dally paper, sup-
posed to be the r-pokesman for Senator
Hubert M. La. Follctte, made advances
to the Democratic committee of Kenoshn
countj' to combine the Democratic State
campaign and the I'resldentlnl fight with
La Follette's made n sensation to-daj-, as
Indicating that La Follctte Is planning to
cut loose entirely from the Republican
party and support the Democratic Ad
ministration. 1
Tho editor nsked that the Kenosha
Democrats make their campaign for
Wilson, La Follettc nnd Williams, The
Democrats refused to consider the plan
and declared their loyalty to W. F.
Wolfe, Democratic candidate for Senator.
Meanwhile Wolfo ban caught the
popular fancy by his campnlgn slogan,
which Is "I am us good a Democrat as
La Kollette."
MORE WAGES FOR WORKERS.
Kmployees of Parking I'lnnts anil
(inrment Shops llenefH.
CIIIOAOO, Oct 3, Wage Increases or
shorter hours were announced by pack
ers and garment firms here to-day In
affect 80,000 worker", making nn annual
Ini rease in payrolls of 15.000,000,
Tho packers' changes affect all plants'
In the United State of Wilson A Co.
Armour & Co., Swift Co.. Morris K
Co. and I.lbby. McNeil & I.lbby. who
give an Increase nf two and one-half
cents nn hour on n ten hour working
day.
Members of the Wholesale Clothiers
Association will reduce working hours
from tlflj to fnrty-iium a wren, ray
RED SOX FAVORITES.
Wall Street Oilils Are Placnl at 10
tu H nn Huston.
Hettlng In Wall Street on the seiles
yesterday was 10 to X on tho Red Pox,
though tho llrooklyn supporters were
asking for 10 to 7. L. J. Stokes offera
11,000 to f KS0 that Ronton wins the first
game.
Htokrs cashed ono bet during the day,
He It Harry West of the Ruth $00 to
1500 that llrooklyn wouiu win mo na
tional League pennant,
ISarllcr ThHiiksarlvInn Asked,
Kanbab Citt, Mo.. Oct. 3. -President
Wilson was asked to-day to place I lie
next Thanksgiving Day on November
S3 Instead of November 30 by the
Merchants Ansocltttlon of Kansas Cltv
The merchants say the holiday, falling so
late, works a hardship to them and to
their customer by crnwdlnt Christmas
bunlncM Into thrte week.
After Four Years Fight
cry. an agent for the New York County
Medical Society. The Christian Helen
t'st was defended In police court by
William Truvcrs Jerome and In General
Sessions by Samuel Fntermycr.
Tho opinion of Judge Chase reversing
the Judgment and ordering u new trlul I
had these Important comments i ,
"Practising medicine when unarcom-
pooled by acta that are In themselves
x II. vicious or criminal Is not a crime I
?17"!i". ,lf l Me"":ln !
tt. i . . . ... ,
public health and public welfare that a '
"A lwn.on should not bo allowed to j
1,1,1,1,11,0 I,ru,ll", ,n" '" ,h
qhrUtlan Science or any church as a I
? ! 1,1,1 to cover a business undertaking,
iii-ii .1 person t-jiiiuis m no praci sing . it,,!,....! . ..... ,
the religious tenets of any church, par- f "l"K"rl'1 "IMurently are In grave
tlcularly where comiiensatlou la taken''""' w'"' "lclr lines of communication
therefor and tho practice Is apart from ; cut behind them, but In Tianlvanln
the church edifice or the sanctity of the, ,hc Rumanians are scoring succcs-ra and
home of the applicant, the question ,h, ... . , , ,
whether such person Is within the ex- ,5 ,,re "'tKlucting a vigorous offensive
ceptlon should be left to n Jury as a I ' I'obtudja.
question of fact. The Hiimanlan Int Msloli rtf ItnlcirLi
In this case the court charged thej
Jury: Mf you find from tho evidence In
.... . . . . . ...
I'racilce of a religious tenet of ,
nil' .IiriHIl.in i'lfllt,i l"MlirM. V np.
of the opinion that the court was
In
error In so charging tho Jury.
DETECTED BY HAT
1 .
Spell Oil After Killing Loiipi
Island Woman and Injur
inpr tier Son.
IlKMI-HTEAD. I.. I.. Oc. 3Tw f.li
t,.n f...i .t,.
" 1 ' Z, I,',
, ? "' K"a M' T,,yIor' " Mr" "'''
wan Kiiieu ny an autnmonllo last Hat-
urdav nlcht. nn.l 1,. tt o
"Clirj, ,
jinn-, was oangerousiy injured, led to'
the arrest last night of Frederick W
llaumach, son of Charles M. Baumach. '
:l ftinlraln. nf tTtbu..lll. . '
. Miin.inia, uii 11 vnarge
of homicide, llaumach was held to-day
In IS. 000 ball by Justice of the I'euco
Seaman.
The car which atrnrk Mr T,.vin 1
arid her son went on without slackening '
speed. No one hnd noticed the license
number, but Carl Schmidt said thnt un
automobile containing four men had
stopped at his hotel, Hnd after the men
had asked him to send a doctor down
the road because of an accident, had I
gone on.
One of the felt hats contained the
inmillK I M
It." Sheriff .Htenhen P.
rettlt Immediately mado a list of every
person with these Initials recorded In
the Long Island telephone book. Last 1
night he drove to llaumach's home and
was told that he ould not see llaumach,
who was 111 of lumbago.
The Sheriff exercise,! 1.1. uihnriv
""d found liaumach In bed with his
head and face In bandages. He 1,3,1
iieen cut, lie admitted, by flying glows.
when Mrs TavioV J..,n re" !
struck.
Mr. Itaumnch admitted lli.it hi. .nn
Frederick hud been driving the car an
that he ana hi tw ,. ih, 1?,' .
that he and his two other sons were In 1
11. lie ocmcii tnat the car was going
over twenty miles an hour.
The arrest of young Itaumich la the
first arrest to follow .1 fatal automobile
accident on Long Island thla summer.
The accident occurred near the spot
vvliere Mrs. Taylor's husband was
seriously Injured by un automobile two
years ago.
WARNS OF COAL PRICE RISE.
Trade Paper Says Operator Can't
Get Knoaich Miner.
Winter cannot be far off, for the cur
rent Cool Trmlc Journal contains ltn
warning, regularly printed when the tlmo
comes to burn coal, that that commodity
is likely to go up lu price.
Tho mine operators are hard put to It
these days, says the article, to get enough
coal to supply all the dealers becauso
many of the easiest coal veins have been
exhausted. And then there Is the labor
problem. Few suspected during the dick
ering last spring over wages and hours
between the Fnlted Mine Workers of
America and the mine operators that If
more pay was granted for shorter hours
the public would have to pay for the In
crease. Hut It Is so. according to the Coeil
rrenfr Jourtinl, And even with a wage
scale that Is more attractive to labor
the operators aie having illlllnilly In get
ting men. Hut hoii-i. owners should not
dash Into the coal imnketi and buy
feverishly or prices may run up even
more, warns the trade publication.
CHILDS PRICES UP 5 CENTS.
New Schedule In F.ITrrt From 1
o'clock This Morning.
nruiKing inn nn'ieiirillK coi or living
leiine in iiiniir-aiiii ii nn never ileal
directly with the grocer or the butcher, I
all the Child" retiuranls In (Renter1
New Ycnk advanriHl prices on mi'.il,
eggs nnd snnm other dishes 5 cents nt
I n'fnfr llilu mmhllii'
Il.icon nnd eggs and ham nnd eggs
now cost 30 cents Instead of ; n small
steak Is 30 cents instead of 23 ; plain
omelette has Jumped from 15 cen's tu
ia ......... f. ...... .i... i. ,...i.. ........... i ,
.ii i.-eiiir, ,.,e,, in,, i.i.., , in neii neei
lnihli lifii. uilvnncfd from 15 rents tn 20,
i;ggs nr u rent nn niner nigner, no i
mailer how prepared.
All pies fiom now on nro 10 cents a
cut, but Instead nf seven cuts to the
plo there will be six. In the past only
I Im fresh fruit pies such as prnch and
bony were sold on tho six cut, 10 cents
basis.
For more than a week 10 cent has
been clinrged for I'offcc with cream,
which used to bo R cents, A cup of
1'i.ffrc with mllk still may be had for u
i nickel
Hut butter rakes still nre free tn plice
I of breud as deshed If uny one gcM
j comfort from that
RUMANIA LINES FARMERS MAKE
CUT IN REAR BY CONCESSION IN
BULGAR TROOPS'MILK DEADLOCK
Invaders' Army in Critical
Position Lose Their
Pontoons.
ri'p'i niuimivi TV
11 1 1 I'Al MGHIING IN
TH E TRANSYLVANIA
Defenders Driven Back
Offensive Moiv Active
in Dobrndja.
LllNlmM. Oft rt Tlttr...,..!... Int.i.1,...
was started at a point midway between
Hustchuk and Turtukal. (ifllclal reports i
-
from llerlln and Vienna nwrt tint the I
jxmtoons whereby thee forces crossed 1
tho ti.nov... .......i ....i i .,., , ,i, ... !
ine oanupi w i .o il( Mr o) en nemmi them
by tire from Austrian and ,,,.
monitors. The llulg.irl.:
in report says
i the invading force consisted of "several
battalions." right of collective bargaining. That
The ufllcl.il report fiom lluchnrest to- means that they will be content to have
night Is silent as to this move. The only , ,i8t, Ibuters do business with them
reference to It caidciu .1 utile-, m.ule by .1. ....... i
the Rumanian War Office Is the follow-- JH ti'HvUlu.il In tho gud old way In
Ing liaragraph; ' stead of thioush the Dairymen's l.e.igu
(In the southern front In t .nhrn.l l.i 1
our attacks continue violently over the
whole front. The enemy Is offering
very stubborn resistance.
This aglets with the official teportw
from llerlln, which rajs
Ilepealcd enemy attacks mule
general lino of Ttipral-S.trllulz.t again
failed against the resistance offeied
by the brave Ilulg.1n.1n and Turkish
tioop, over 10'j prisoners were
taken.
..Al " ". t'-t 11 aoniiM inav
n" ""u' " l"" t.r.l rowers were
forced to letirc norm ui . ogaras. iran-
HU-rlor foues of
'"" " .m.uii .-,.r( ...
Hermannstadt. In thu valley of the old
.l.,,n M'l,.. i.rMeUt lefMirt N il
In the region of ilekoten and liar-
anllat, north of Kogaras. advancing
litrn,a" 011,1 Austro-IIungarlan troops ,
onme Into ctiutact with superior Hu
nianhm forces, before whose attack
wo withdrew. On the fmntler west of
Tothenthuru l'ass tlie llum.inl.tns at-
tempted to break through our eh (In of 1
posts. Minor lights are proceeding,
In the Hatzeg Mountains enemy at
tacks were repulsed
The Rumanian 0ttlvl.1l statement k.iys:
On the northern and western fronts
fighting continues. In the Churglll
and Hargltta mountains we made
prisoners of thirty-three otllcers and
3'ni men, besides capturing ome
wagons and war material. In their
retreat toward Caneid Friday our
troops took 300 prisoners and five ma
chine guns In the Altul (Olt) Valley.
Our troops are now counter attacking
the enemy In the mountainous region
on the right bank of the Ulcer Altul,
In the Jlsll Valley the enemy Is
making Isolated attacks. A violent
attack Is proceeding in the region of
Mount Obornca, near I'droseny. and
""i'.!?.""? '
A ru',T' j;l,',r"!" "T.., " . "'V
reported from Home by the Wireless I
to-day said that Meld Marshal von n hulk suffered greatly. In many eat
Mackensen had ordered the evacuation ng houses I! was not possible to buv a
of the Danube fortresses of Slllstrla and
Turtukal.
The reason given was that the C.er-'
man commander was In danger of belnff
env eloped by the Russian and Rumanian
troops which have crossed the Danube.
ALLIED ARMIFJS WIN.
llalaars floated In Attack on
Kaliuakralan Peninsula.
London', Oct. 3. .Successes from
Fiorina along tho extended front clear
to Its eastern end are reported to-day by
the allied armies operating In the
Knlkans.
Transferring their ninth and tenth
divisions from Dobrudja for the purpose,
the Hulgarlans were reimpietely routed
In a desperate attempt to regain pos
session of the Kalmakcalau peninsula,
the ridge a mile and a half high which
dominates the approaches to Monnstlr,
according to Serbian reports substuntl-
Continued on fourth Vanr,
Net Paid Circulation a Day
192,210
On July 3. 1916. The Sun and The
New York Press were amalgamated.
For the quarterly period from that
date to Sept. 30, 1916. the weekday
circulation of The Sun has averaged
192,210 Net Paid
Copies a Day.
(Member of the Audit Bureau of Circulations
fcNSN
S
S
S3
c
I i
I
i
. ksss
ESS
Will Waive Recognition of
League if Increase in
Price Is Paid.
MAYOR MAKES MOVE
TO END CONTROVERSY
I: .4 .....,.. Ouli- llnlf !
IJl.MrilMllCl.S tu'l Ulll.l -ll'tll j
Supply Some Folk Get
Pints, Others None.
Mayor Mltchel nssumeo ine una u.
mediator yesterday In the dadlock be-J
....... ..J t mill
lucen tiisirinuiers aun pro'iuvtr. ...
and staitcd negotiations that have al
ready produced a rift In the milky way.
After conference which he hud with
b.B dealers and representatives of the
Dairymen's League thele was a fce.lng
that losslblv a ttlement might bo,
re.t -hed that would enable New York to1
. ,. . ....... mi, I..
lts nona, l,u,',I of mllk a f0W
1,5 .
The dairymen told the Mayor that If
... . .. .. ,
in kii in. pn ,ne amn.. ...r . .r
milk, approximately one cent per e,uart
more, they would be willing to waive the
"'" ' "I'TU nrai 01 100.1, unu ..11..-
kets. There will not, however,
be any
concessions as to price.
The distributers said they would not
leal with the Dairymen's League, ns that '
would b.. In violation of the Donnelly
act, which prohibits any conspiracy In
retrain! of trade, but admit their agree
ah!iies, at any and all times, to
make contracts with Individual farmers.
The factor In the tentative plans for
a settlement of the trouble, which has
Already left n bad taste In the mouth of
the milk loving public. Is the oueHlon of
the ,.nu-mnt u-Mflt th.. ,IU rl l,i.. ...II'
consent to pay the dairy farmer for his
mllk.
Offered .Small Italic.
The .le.iters offered h.tlf a cent In
crease per nuart for mllk pur.-hnsed
after October 1. If they avent the fann
ers' demands of another half cent the un
tlnrate consumer. It Is expected, will b
obllgeil to meet the extra cost.
He al-
ways does.
The most sgnlflnnt statement volun-
leered after the conference was one by
omrulssloner Dillon of the Department
III hlSlllH Unit MlirUnfU 1l-Hn al.l i
t.l:X".V-"r -l.i,fr"?n.'!1 '.'I1'1" ''"'I'llR -
...... ... .... uni.to uir . . 111 1 11 ii.minr r I J.ejce,
of Foods and Markets In the matter of 1 It is now believed that tho eTortn of
collective dealing with the league Is con- the Von Tlrplt Prtv to force a re
cerncil. we are willing to waive thnt. If 1 sumt.tum of submarine wnrfnre will b
we get the results we nre after. If the defeated as the result of tile conferences
dealers want to pay the price and haveof th it,.,.,ntM's budget committee,
conscientious scruples against dealing l?miAl ItnMMriiiuri.i Vutliili.il l.lher:il
with the league we wouldn't put uny
lecnnicainy in tne way
The Major will have another meeting
with the mllk dealers this morning, after
which. It Is expected, he will ask the
dairymen to .all again.
TliouHiids of New Yorkers' felt acute
ly yesterday the deprivation of having
no milk
1 mllk Tile Minnie fnllv in n,rllr"m "rr" '""'""e .(iiiern .111 rui'ini"
reed that. A little more than half the ' " ' ''." .L.., . .
ce
exceed
' nf ,v , m . .'.,. il,i ,
'"lk altogether, or be satisfied
with half of their usual supply.
A strenuous effort was made to tike
enre of the family trade, but many res
taurant keepers and others who buy mllk
i glass of milk, although there was mllk
for coffee and tea. It generally came
out of a condensed mllk can, however,
! 1 cr rn' nPPy.
President Iviton Horton of the SJhef.
I field Farms-Slawson-Decker Company
I hls company expected a 10 per sent.
improvcmeni mis morning. lesieru.iy
the company got about 60 per cent, of Its
usunl supplj', he said,
Horden's reported It received between
.10 and 60 per cent, of Its normal supply,
while advices from depot managers
throughout the dairy districts Indicate
,. ,.,,..iu. larirn sunnlv fnr to.dav's ile
iiverv
R. K. Van Clse, president of the Mu-
tuul-McDcrmott Dairy Corporation, said
Its supply yesterday waM 50 per cent,
short, but he was confident the company
would bo able to deliver 80 per cent, to
duy. It. D. Cooper, chairman of the execu
tive committee of the Dalrjmen's League,
said last night a careful Investigation
Continued on Third Pngt.
"BUTCH" M'DEVITT ENTERS
THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE
Coming to New York on Monday in Usual Wilkesbarre
Special, With Customary Tub of Ice, &c, to Be
Nominated by the Mr. J. J. McDevitt Party.
Mr. J. J, McDevitt of Wilkesbarre. Pa.,1rnr. Further. It Is stipulated that there,
In response to tho call of an enthusiastic 1
ten'ru " 1"" "I '
tensive private Interests on the altar of
the public weal and, no matter at what
cost of time, effort or moiiev. will nc-!
. .
Dexltt party for the l'resldrncy when Its i
nMlonal convention Is held In New York
next Mondav.
- , , ,
Mr. J. J. McDevitt. who graces Hroad-
way now and again and In his lighter
"loinents permits himself to be called '
Hutch by his Intimates, once upon a tlnmi
ottered his ttatue to the city of Wash-
Ington and was ruaciy rebuffed, IH
t. ok tho statue nil the way to tho c.ipltnl .
on a special train and tendered It free of
charge If only tho capital would provide
th Kite. Ilut Washington will live to
lue the day. for Hutch expects not onlv .
nuiiuo.iiiiin nm mm an over-
'';'";'n .i'!":"11!'.. ",V,r M, :??in l"
" .lUMll.T ..1,-.1.
MirrlMl Train for Drleuulea.
Delegate tn Ue nstloiial convention
or tin, .Mr. J. J. McDevitt party will de-
'"'Z i&Z
,lt 'ctUt,k Monday afternoon. 100
or more strong, lnslructljtis are that
the tram th ill be operated on the fastest
' o- 'o" . uiiihi.-iu w on sniriy, lis .nr.
U. J. McDevitt wl-hes to be In uptown
.ew ork in time for dinner. The train
will consist of one combination coach and ,
bngg.icn car. mm Pul',,,.,, rn...i ......
f m - - ,
REICHSTAG DELAYS
ITS REASSEMBLING,
I
( llllllCClllll' S Spi'ei'Il Slllll t(l III1
'
CllllSe A Oil Tirpll. I llOlljrllt
to lie Iteaten.
.MSTKRI)A.Vf, Oct. 3, via l.oiulon. Thr
."Vol .Ourfjrr of llerlln says the re
sumntlon of the slttliws of the lte!eh,tag.
. .
adjourned after the delivery of Chan-
lenor von iK'tmnumi-iioilwcK s speech t
until October b. nas ueen iiostpor.eu until I
October 11.
It is generally believed that the post
ponement Is due to dissatisfaction with
the weech of Dr. von Ilct hrtiaiin-l loll-1
H.eeoh of Dr. von Ilcthmsnn.Holl-' ' Tnf Y"" " the 7i.,p. "r- ",. 1 1 'iU'h
. In the meantime utrrnuous efforw ! f ,r'',,(' ,i,'n' L'arranzii. when he took the ' ' I met only twice and had shaken
be made to reconcile the people to ' "flershlp against the dictator Huerta. , of necessity Wause the funeral
Imperial Chancellor's policy Meet-1 ' h '""'''t'''- , r''": renounced, as of mutual friends had brought them fare
weg
will
.... . i.i 11- n... .....
inc niiiiciiui iii.iii.t-ii'ii 1. aiuiic) ..irei-
. .... . , i.j... . ' . ... .
lllgs ne ueen nuiririu iirniligfil lu oe
heUI In towns whcie members of
llelcltag will make nddrewe
A ...llill,. llilMliln. 1, Vrnnljtnwt .
W - d a rcs..lutlon In favor of an early
party leader, declared that after the
question has been aired In the rommlt
tee meetings It will be fully dlecuseed
In open session.
"We wish to live In pence and friend
ship with America,'' said Herr Il.i-er-
mann. 'but undoubtedly mere is nttter
feeling here liecause American -uppHes
' "If America should succeed In forclns
j ,i"""n;1 ? International law. re
etore the freedom of the seas and pro
ceed, with American energy, against
Fngland's brutallz.vtlon of neutrals, It
would have a decisive Influence on the
political situation between the two coun
tries." MAID OF THE MIST IN PERIL.
Mmriirs Knits Steamer llrraka I
peiier i-asscngrrs iicscnen.
Niaoaiia Faixk. Ont. Oct. 3,The
Maid of the Mist, a small steamer
. . -
which makes the circuit at me root or
Niagara Falls, nnd Is known to many
thousands of excurslonl't, broke Its
propeller shaft when a short distance
from the Horseshoe Falls late to-daj
The passengers were taken off In life-
boats
Desplt
lb,, nerllou position of the'" lm'1 "lues mo i niteu Mates take
craft there was no panic. The steamer
I now anchored a short distance below
the falls and Is In no danger.
DR. SATO TELLS OF GOOD WILL.
Japanese Ambassador Sure llrla
(Inns Are Cordial.
SKATTtJ, Oct. 3. Dr. Almiirn Sato, I
the new Ambassador from Japan to the
United States, nt a dinner given to-night
by Judge Thomas Hurke, president of,
thu Seattle Chambir of Commerce,
spoke of the cordial relations existing ,
between the people f.f the Pacific North
west and the Japanese who dwell among,
them, He added :
The message which I bring fron' the
people of Japan to tne people in tne
i'nite.1 Stnres Is nothing but the assur -
i nnces ef friendship and good will, and 1
know the latter penplo will r.-clprocato
them In full measure 1 hope I m iy be
of somo service In Increasing trade and
i commerce between Japan and this conn-
try. and I pray jou to ciKipcrate with mn
to this end.'
i 'PROHIBITION DON'T PROHIBIT."
Vet Only 7 nf Kill Knnsns Kohmil ,
I'nplls Kver Smv n "HrunU."
Hrm; Pi.mv, Knn Oct ' -Out of u
gathering of 40fi high school and gia li
pupils here to-day onlv even were found
who had seen a saloon nnd hardly more
than that number had seen uny ono In
loxlratcd This Mirnrlslnc rrrult "f Kin-a pro.
mbltionwii.s iirouKi.i oui .11 a mtv c .. in
e-ommemoratlon of I-ranees Mlliird Day
utiebT li.e niitpice in ine iioiuniis
Chilstlan Temperance 1'nloii
Qiieznn I'.leclcd Senator.
Manila. Oct. 3 Maicel I. (JU'Z'in.
who held thn post of Rcsil"nt I'nnimls
sinner of the Philippine Is'anils In the
Fnlted State s and who recently relurned
he re, has bcn elected to the Senate from
Ttivnhas. his home. Rafel Pahnii, mem-
bte of the Ph'Ilpplne I'oinmlssloii, ha1
also been elected to the Senate lle vv
npictfiit Manila.
l pounds of clean Ice In n tub,
campaign I
Aftt.,. dinner Ihe delegates will repair I
to the convention hnll, the location of i
T- hlc-li has not bien announced, and Mi. J
.L AtrDvllt i t 1 .;.!! flu. Mntlnnal roll-
i,t.r ,flT npi.olntlng committees on'
platform, rules and resolutions, of each
wiicu .nr. j. j, .vicnevitl will lie cnan-
man, Mr, J. J, Mclievltt will bo named 'er-1
,)m,ient chairman. Whllo no steam'
roller tactics ate to be ucd. It Is i
foregone conclusion, considering the
unanimous si'iitlmrnt of the party, that'
.ir, J. J .MrDevitt will be nomlnatt-il li i
nccliimatlon for tho 1'tesldvnoy.
,
r" "l !"' tastnms.
The notification ceremonies will be,
),i, nt ontPi ,tiu, o,.,MrtnR fjom the
iih. ,.,,.i.,, ,,f m... ..i.i i i
.McDevitt In a grace
'1"li will accept tho
ful and foictful
tho nomination with 1
suriui".' mid tuoiUsty Thereupon the'
I convention will dU'p.it.d. mid the canJ.-
I il.ite will begin his o'liupai'n by pn-
(veiling to l'hliaiUlphla and thence
in
nil probability, to Atlantic City,
i ui' .ir. j. j. .iicucYiii pariyexpeci" 10 .
poll a luge labor vote, despite its ciindl- I
nates wen i.untvn capitalistic awciu-i
Hons and his leputatluu as ii spendthrift
and a lover of luxury. To prove hint
elf a true friend of the I (boring man.
Hutch recently won a Ii"no wager that
lie could not hold a Job for a month.,
lie went to work In n foundry. htaed'
ilir.. ,.,iriU. il.l.n- urkln.. .1... .,1. i
Vl aBer ni.l V.ul "
'MEXICAN ANARCHY'
ASSAILED IN PARIS'Sr:r;
;"" "'no which fulilllid in,. B
"Iclllph C't) III II 1 11 1 II S -I'll IICC,
lit Wilson's Itt'llllOSt. Fill-
(Hies
lowed His Policy.
I'.vnis, Oct. 3. The Tonn. whlih is
regirded as the t-ernl-olllclal mouth
nf n,.. ri..(r.....n ,.,iv .1,..,.,..-
1 ..v....
IcuUr to what It terms "Mexican
anarchy In placing In danger French
nuesunems 01 uii,uuu,uuo oy ine
arhltriry lets of the Carranza (lovem-
merit." especially by the decree of
September 5. under which It Is alleged
properties are confiscated.
4 wi
1 ,. . . . .... .
did nthir Kurnpwtn States, her own
; .. .
Wasii,nsto:i, and adopted l'r sldent Wil
son's formula of Mexico for the Mexl-
, ''''.'sluUaneousl y with all our Allies we
recognized by the desire of the I lilted
State the 1 ioverrmii'iit of ('.iri.uu.i. In
'a. i"
the ii.tiiictlon that the deference which
. .
we thu showed toward the great North
American republic would have 110 1111
rappy effect lu safeguarding our rights
The-o luics have not been rtnllziil."
The 7'tiin says events Justify serious
fears for the future. It alludes to the
"futllltj" of the Atlantic City confer
Mice and to the rifpoiiMblllty assumed
by the Fritted States :n asking Fiance
to adapt Its policies toward Mexico,
viiun country, the newspaper s.i, nr-
bltrariij annul.- legal miitiacts,
(
! n
nice, savs the 7niin, "still re.
to iiilmlt that It dcininds will le-
main without result, but If that should
be the ease, she will Hike such action as
the situation reitiiiee."
PIOTKSTTOLASSISa.
liiilnissles lull
French nnd llrltlsh
itnopve.fs .rn i.ir.v of th. V v R.
on l.aii.lnii. iCit II icon, smiling at us !. t.- t.igo-
Washington. Oct 3, The Mexican' "'"' "f ""' S' natmlal primarv. Me e'al.
situation has taken a verv liiibai rasslng ''l'r an'' ' ''.imeroii I'mh, , fnrmer
turn In another respect for the Wilson "overneir of the I 'hi.ipiittn .-
Administration The l(rlf!h int. I LV.,!!,-!! '
embassies have called Secretary l.an
' .Ik'h attention to the fact that the'
'"'' '.overiinieni nas seizen ne
n fiyat u nf lltltLils ii.t l.,...h..l.
-" " """ cn oaimuiK
""': '"
I Mr. Hohler. the Ilrltlsh charge In
"''' .'. called on Counsellor Polk
''' 'V "' '''"'" " clear that flre.it
I,rl l ' "'t permit ( iirriinr i to Im-
peril Hrtllsh Interest, The implication
' "m' '"'Hon on behalf of the Hritleh and
l rench bunks these (lov ei mucins wld
I not find themselves too muih occupied
to take matters In their own hands
1 It is understood that !ntend of taking
I the matter up diplomatically with Car
I ranza, the Stale Department sent the
, fn. ts to tln American couimlssl meis In
i Atlantic City, hoping that the conference
may find a way out of this dltllcult)
SHACKLETON TO RESCUE AGAIN.
Will Try tn Save Ten lien Ills Ilx-
pedlllon Left llehlml.
Santiaiio, Chile, int. 3 -Lieut Sir
Finest Slnu'kl.ti'ii h.i iibanilnned the
'ilea nf sailing for Kiigl.ind this week
irom iiuenos ,iyres. ne win proceeii tn
' Australia to command an expedition to
ro-euo ten member nf the Sharkleton
, pari) wno were irn nn seamy pro-
visions on the west kldo of the south
polar continent.
"''" men wire on lauu wnen tncir
M'ip. wi .Mimr.i. wa caiigiu in I"''
i nun . . I i i.-n i .1 .. I ii, , , ei .' II .villi -
Ins the arrival of Lieut Sha iilet n, who
dl 'embarked nn the east side of the , .,n.
t nent, bin was coiiih lie I to retuui to
his slatting point.
SENTENCED TO 6 MONTHS QUIET
lliisbnnd Mo Ordered In Keep
Snber UurliiK That Perloil,
Ml Marearet Horn of 3(2 Orand
iveniie, Astoria, had her husband nr
inlgiied beioie Magistrate Miller In the
Long Island ( ty polhe coiirl .V eslerd iy
i ,, .hargcl that when ho was
(l .,ls ahuslve
ll'Uiik
i m
i ol.er
! "Ni
hi talk allusive when lie !e
a-.Ueil tin1 Mag'ntnite
' said she "When lie Is sober
ce d .e-n t t ilk ut all "
"Whl li wo lid sou rather
'do, continue talking to you
have '.nn
md drink,
or not mlk and contlnui) soln i
iisked
I tin- Magistrate
I "I uld la'her have no tall; and him
sober," mid rhe
So Mugl'triilc M "cr or tried linrn
I'll not to talk to bis wire rnr six months,
land not ti dunk for that period
T. R. AND TAFT
SAY 'HOWDY DO'
AS HANDS CLASP
l Both Fists Shoot Out at
the Same Time in Union
League.
MJIll.UAA AL I O
THE INTEK3IKDIARY
Hughes (Jets a Housing Re
ception and 3Inkes a
Speech.
.
LU l.t '.MM, Md'.I'.l.S
vil.'Y VTMl? PI'Vl'Msi!.'
. . ,
t 1 4 JlllK'I'S ( llCCl'I'll ll tllti
Throng i It Baud
Hays.
'
..
il.o reception vhli-:i tn.. t i,ion
I . ati Cl.tib .mi. I.t.t nluft in honor
(of Clial I. s i:. litlglifs was slicceisfut
lyonil the wildest hopes nf its pro
inntiTM. ci.erisneii ue.slriH nf fi..iS who
1 1 ought that the fe
I ,i,.i.. . ,,
. k
ml l-dwc ti !h, nly
dderilK nf (lie Tnltcd
Slates hul lasted loiu enoiitih.
Not yet ate the ttv,i u.d 1 Wtuls
greeting each other us "TI 1 md
"Will" as In the je.it, 1 f..f,
Hut tl-.i y shook h.inds, (Acliungeii 'rlnM
and "Howdy does" ,-.n, nMther ..icu.i
" sign of vvlshlni; fur tl ot'ior any-
thlllK but the bulllesf of yuod lurk It
1 .. 1 .1..... .....
" " ' " " 11 """H"". this
meeting of the Colonel anil h.s one
1 time Secretary of War and comrade
1 . . '
... ..
to lace
Nil
11 tie nil Thin 'I line.
Ilut it wnr nn funeral thai tl 1.1
I'liU'ii League Club hous,. in Thirty
ninth street and Fifth avenue vv mussed
lllt tllght It llil. til,, m.isl , heei-fnl
...,. 1. .... 1 .
, 1, , ' cnuiiiM.i-uc meet-
nil? Ill,, elnli I111. ... .... ... ....... ...
,,,.. .
iimny men Here mere. rei,r...enl.
'"K ''v,r n eivaf.l,. f.utloii and liellef
In the Republican nnd Procursive
parties, with 11 fair sprliik'ing of Demo,
cr.its. ton, that it took an hour ami ten
minutes for the lln.. 1., p,, tlnough the
llbrnrj. vvinre stood Mr lliiclie. re
celVlng the guests With these men PesliU
him:
At bis t lull w i llllhii Root, president
of Ihe club, u ,N ,.ft Theodore House.
'It; then I'h.illncev M Depew, and In
the orde: imnieii M,- T.ift. Oui Ilorain
I'oi tei-. Hi.v i'Iih w s U h tin in. Sena
tor A It Fall of New li (iov Llv-
ingstii-i Hi eckin.ui of If I and
Willi mi I! Will. mi. .'.mum of the
Republican Natloi,.il i '.imin'Mi e , will
I '.un M I'.ible. ..iiu,,.. f.,r Srr.ilnr.
, Sel .it. .1- Jl.'lt, v Week f M'sChU-
sells, lieente v.ui I, .Me),, u , as
. ......... i-i-i,i-,,Br.
Col. RoilJieVll LTaMlei! t.,,. hnii.l nf
r.i ni.i ie,nnn, inn. s rent.... of I'etin-
aisIb. ...1 ...t
i-. n.mi.i. .m i .iiii, i inn c .i.i -ee .m
lure. 11. i Colonel W.I , .t(,l l,v
lioV Whlltll.ill lit I ...ve V ..lence ',
nuienitier hk th.it tin liov.n.ii w.i also
on In- I : ri U 1 1 t ii. Inn, a:i
in fa. t even hoe!) hailed vcrvboov
I Ise
as a brother, am in t n. .,. ueiv
fori-ii ten, ami tin. tall.
w,i.
all of
lluuhe and how real Xiiier i aiil'.iii wu
it la t to conn into ii ,iin
i March
next '
The re-eption vv. to have s'.irte I nt
.30 i. l For .ii. hour I ef lin
time a "-.j'.i.i.l of pnl.cemen in Thirty.
I'lli'li street In tricil of the lu'. liu'lilli'iir
.ve i s Tiiiima-iing With .1 iron) "hat
Mianiped the pivi merit In Its efTnr's to
get the bet iinsitlnu to fee Hi,, two e.
PteliiMt, the Prcsldnit to In- and the
oi In r ii' t iii'e of ai, all et,u .mm
In the lohbv of tlu i luh tin., wer?
so many guests tin' even the a.;lle mi a
M'tig.'r ho.vs iarrlmr ihii fur m-iv.
paper men could baldly gain the central
stairway
This group In the lohbv was nh
niiiI.i iI by the sportii.c ipli tloii "Will
T.ift and Room'ViIi shal.e hum, nno If
M, i w 111 make the tlrst ovi i un
,, ...mi ,t... .
and
Reforo Mr lljghr i'el Hi.- other
,riuc.als iirrivi'd there vv i- ilieetiug
i,lr w.ir horses of politic ih.e I'liumcey
u Depew. lien llota.e Porter, and
, ther old tlineis who luttled the.r
way
, into Hip lobhy
Mr. '!' f I ' lliilrnnce,
When Taft entered, bis ty ,i,'ii.,:it
rli.-id by the characteristic sm'le thu
illumined Ins f . i the b mil hii ui !; up
"Van y l.ee " Mr. T.ift w - esorted
by Samuel W Fair. luld. wlmni Mr.
Rout Ml' i- b'd .1 Ji'i-ideit i! 'in liull,
ilroige T Wilson, chainnin of trt
reception cotiitn.ltee, in.in.iL'eil t. ra're
hi elbows anil then hi hand above the
heads mill rhouhleis tint hemmed him
in and shouted ' "iiuee cheers f r
Judge Tift ' The ri'H'oiiH' set all tho
11. me that lovrrnl the w ills of the club.
liille ipnvel lllg
"Rally Aroiiiid the Flag, P.oyn," from
, Hie hand ilnln't d.'irven i'n nrdor any
dm Wliniiian ni. got a olg reivptlon,
' md Mr Cibler vi.i hailed lis the Siin-
tm-ili m M 1 1 1 1 . i li.nie. ns usual, cuinn
in hi i tiiobtius,veiy Hint he was not
gi in t'.illv II" ogn'eij He was fuliW(lI
bv liculesD llilli -. ev-i h lllinan of tint
Rip'ihll.'nn National Colin .fie, Sena
l. l i . ',s an I then ('"' R veil
I The I'o'oml'H i veil "ig ill'" was topped
off by b wide In 'mined .d id, felt hat.
lie waved 'he I' .1 is the crowd let Ioosj
i the biggest implosion of sound that th
I
mm.
