"Beatrice Fairfax
yy
A bull Page Feature of Love
and Adventure Each Sunday
fUctimond ?tttes
? V.J"
:4
A Business Guide
Real Estate and Court News
Daily in Times-Dispatch
Wth YEAR
v oi.I'.mi; ?;<>
M *1 111:it U7s
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, HHG.?TWELVE PAGES.
r\V.ri,,:u ?UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS
i
j
i
Troops at Camp Stuart' Expect ;
to Go Forward or Be De
mobilized Shortly.
GRIMES BATTERY LEAVES'
- .
Reports Indicate Artillerymen J
Now Well on Their Way
to San Antonio.
All Gr to Border
\MII\?.TO\ Mi-lnlM-r :t.? All
Xiitlnnu! (iiintil unit* ?if Vlrn'nltt.
North i nrolliui. siiulli l nrollnn mid
Tpnurmn- nun In iiiuhlI ls.it I Ion
rnni|Ni will lie sent )<> tin- iiorilrr
"In tlir Immediate future." Hecr^
tnry llultrr annulment In I e to-day. .
Tlirar and other State troop* ?lni
liM?r not yet nren nrnli'r nn the
lioriler itIII tnUe the place* of Nn
tiotiHl t.iiarri organisation* ordered
t?? thrlr home wtntlon*.
"Mv ciifjs is thai the troonx left hi i
Camp Stuart will either be miiJ'tTH I
?nil of tli?ervice or ordered to the I
border by the 13th of this month." i
"aid Major L. tfk'riirlit. camp ad- 1
Jtilatit. l:?si night. "1 have n?. inside
Information, and the men ma> br held
here all \v|n!rr. l?Ut r helleve there will
l>e a change very shortly."
Secretary Raker's statoniciii wa* tho
lirst ofl|. ial announcement that the War
Department had adopted a policy call
ing for bonier service for all the na
tional guardsincti before they are mus
teieil out It had been understood for
several weeks, however, that this course .
?'oul(i be j(tirsued Waxhington officials
expect tlte last of th.' units to be mov
mg town!'?] the border within the next
week or tell days.
A War Department announcement is
sued last 11 ? t lists amonc th?' troops
in mobilization . .imps in Southern
States;
North Carolina -Companies A and P.
engineers
South Carolina Cotv.pan? I" engi
neers.
Tennessee?Troop* C and D cavalry.
Virginia ? First Squadron Cavalry,
I'ompary A "nirincrs, Field rnmpsnv
Signal Corps and field hospital No. t
The War Department's announcement
says that the "official report of muster
it." of the troops named in North Caro
lina. South Carolina and Tennessee is
"not a matter of record." but the report
says th^se troops will l.e sent t ? the
border.
i \MI?STI UtT I.OM'Xnii:
HIIKV \MTII.I.KIM I.I: \ \ I:s j
? 'amp Stuart felt lonesome yest- rilny. i
Tht number "f men in camp had been I
diminished l>\ more than half, and tlte
remainder could not see through tb>
gloom to the day when they would all |
cheerfully smoke Mexican cigurettes |
beside the l'.io Ornndc. As the Blues'
and the Kngineers and th" Field Hos
pital Company and Signal '"nrp.s heard j
the shouts of Battery IS die away down .
the railroad track, they felt little of
Major Wright's optimism. More ub
servers titan the camp adjutant, how
ever. have voiced the belief that it.
speedy ending of the present situation
is to come.
Battery C. accompanied by the re
cruits for the First and Second In
fantry Regiments, rolled out of the
railroad yards at 11:35 o'clock vester
";iy morning. The artillery will go to
:?n Antonio and the infantry to
i'.ro wnsville. The train left on the
-eaboaxd Air Lane Railway for Peters
ourg. and was there transferred to the
Norfolk and Western.
Just a few hours after the train
left, three straggling recruits for the
infantry reached camp. If they had
taken the earlier train, or if they had
marie up their minds to enlist si day
sooner, or if they had not lingered at
the corner for that last drink, they
might have gone to Texas with the
others. As it was, tliey joined the
waiting list at Camp Stuart.
Although the three men had enlisted
for the infantry, they were assigned
temporarily to the Signal Corps. Dis
charges have thinned the ranks of th^t
organization until it is below war ,
strength, and efforts are now being
made to increase its numbers. Until
the Signal Corps has regained its full
proportions, all ?? emits willing will
be assigned to it.
smivai, roups movi:i>
INTO .MOHK CinilMCT QI AItTIOHS
Into the spa< vacated by the artil
lery. situated between headquarters
and the camp of the Blues, yesterday
moved the Signal Corps, the Engineers
ami the Field Hospital. By the draw
ing in of these outlying organizations,
the compactness of the camp is main- '
mined. The Field Hospital occupies 1
ihe substantial building of the artil- '
lery headquarters mess, and is in bet
ter position to care for the sick, it Is '
-;ta ted. than ever before.
General headquarters of the Chesa- '
jieake and Ohio Railway received a re- '
port yesterday afternoon at 5 o'clock 1
showing that the three sections of the
artillery that left Richmond for Texas
Monday afternoon were making good
time. At 1 o'clock they were on the
Ashland-Lexington division of the
road, near Lexington. Oflicials ex
pected the trains to reach Louisville.
Ky? early this morning. The troopers
were reported to he faring well. I
I -j. S. Moore, of Roanoke, represents- ?
live of tho American Hallway A.ssocla- I
ilrtn, who has been In Richmond for I
several days supervising the movement .?
,.f the artillery from Camp Henry Car- <
ter Stuart to Texas, returned to Roa- f
noke last night, after the last train (
rif troops departed yesterday morning. 1
Kidnaped Child Found j
' After Four Years' Search |
IMH A ,\ \IMM.IS. I Ml.. Ilfliilirr :i
A hunt lor l.tirinr Xcrrliiuiii. nine
jritrw ultl. Kidnaped from tlir liumc
of bcr mini. Mr*. I.uelle Otrrninn,
lir re Inur >fiiri uu<?. nlilelt ftlrnilcil
I H Icr lllTIIMt. I In- Clllllilionl, eillletl
to-iln* ttlien (lie cirl nii.ii returned
lit ludlmiapnli* trout (.rand I'orki,
II. I'. Hundred* of dollar* nrrc
?prnt In (lie hi'iircli A il \ rrl luriiicitln
lor Kntlierinr Wlnlrm. or Npiv Can
llr, Intl.. t\lin liiih lieen iiiImhIiiu; Miner
llli::. I<<l to (Im* Miidlnu nf (In* Vlerri
iniin i I ?l In tin* t'liniiillnn home.
The I'liilil It ii il lieen I?- f t in < ( nniidti
l?.? ii itoiiniii u ho lor >i tlmr paid
(or ln*r lioiiril. Tin* niimtin Ih niii?
po*>ed Id Imvr ln*?*n tlir Klrl't ino(lu*r.
SENATOR MM TO M
FOR ELLISON'S SLIT
Arcotnac Man Tolls Krii'iids He W ill
lie in liace for Iticulon*
ant-tiovcfiiur.
ioh.mai. \i,ati:k
Lively Tliiw-Conit'inl Itnrr livpcel*
?'<l. Other <'antlitlntes Ileitis Judge
.Martin Williams, of Gilt's, anil It.
Trunk Itiirlianan, of Marion.
State Senator <; Walter Mapp. of
Acroniac County. t ccojfniv.cd as ;i leader
in reform legislation at the Inst ses
sion <>f the General Assembly. will he
in 111?- race for th' nomination by the
I?e:nocrat ic patt> for l*ieuteiiant-Gov
ernor of Yirglnia. This information
was obtained in liicliinoixl last night
from a source of undisputed reliability.
Senator Mapp will, it is understood,
withhold the formal announcement of
his candidal*} until after the presiden
tial election.
Senator Mapp's entrance will make
th<' race ,i thrce-cotnercd affair. Two
candidates for Lieutenant-Governor
have already come forward since I#icu
tenatit-Governor Kllyfon has: entered
i he contest for the nomination as Gov
ernor. They are Judt<- .Martin Wil
liatns. of Giles t'ounty. an*] former
Stale Senator 1! I'" liuchanan. of
Marion, now a member of the iccai
staff of the Comptroller of the Cur
reney.
Hiehiuontl friends of tin Accomao
s?iiator last night verified the s-tate.
riietit that he will seek to succeed Mr.
Kllyson. Mis entrance will make it
certain that the contest for the nomi
nation will he no tame affair. It was
stated that the only reason Senator
Mapp does rrnt now announce his in
tention is the fear that to ilo so might
bring to the front differences within
the party that might prejudice a united
{lemnrratii Vote ? V. t v ?!i tin ra
tional issues
Senator M.?p;> t?? ? :i ?>>t
Widely known I ?? in the .~:at? As
patron of *h** prohibition hill. w!ii ii
goes into effeet on November 1. he
achieved Slate-witle prominence. ami
his work in behalf of this measure is
expected to rally about him the sup
port of a large numbet of people who
were >n favor of the act.
As chairman of the Senate Committee
oit Moral and Social Welfare, he was
also active In promoting other "moral
reform" legislation.
CALIFORNIA FOR WILSON
lonilor JueohN SnyN Suite Will tin for |
President by >1 ore 'I'll"in
loo.nnu.
ISpecial to The Times-Dispat<-h |
.VKW YORK. October 3.?"Wilson
will carry California." said Isador
Jacobs. of San l-'mnciseo, to-day. "Ho
will win that State h\ over 1 ">0.000.
He will carry all the Far Western
Sta trs.
".The Progressive and independent
\nte in California will be largely east
for President Wilson. These voters
tire thoroughly disgusted with the kind
of fcpeeches. that Mr. Hughes has been
making. I luring his visit to California
he never even mentioned by a single
sentence the constructive legislation
enacted in California, nor did he say
that he stood for ?onstructive legisla
t ion.
"This aroust.il the Progressives and
independents. who are supporting
Hiram Johnson for the I'nited States
Senate. Throughout the whole State
you hear the slogan 'Wilson for Presi
dent; Johnson for Senator'!
"This is particularly noticeable in
Ihe southern r>art of the State, where
75 per cent of the vote ion be said to
lie Progressive or Progressive-Repub
lican. The business men and producers
?f the State realize the importance of
the constructive legislation that has
lieert enacted for their benefit, and are
lurning to Wilson on all sides."
SETH LOW'S* WILL FILED
Leaven Income from Ills I'.sdttr, r.ntl
llllKcil al *l.tHMMM10, lo
Widow.
ISpei ial to The Times-iJispai -It. |
Xi;w YORK. October The will or
*eth Low. former Mayor of Greater
Vew York, was liletl to-day at White
I'lains. In it he leaves the income from
lis estate, estimated tit SI.000,000. to
lis widow, Annie W. S. how. After
ter death three-fourths of the residue
s to be divided among the children of
lis brothers and sisters and one-fourth
imong religious and educational lustl
utiops.
HEAVY GOLD IMPORTS
I ellnir tleltil \ nlunl n( $:tsl.-t."n,OII?
HroiiKM to This Country Since
.(miliary 1.
WASHINGTON. October 3.?Gold im
ported into I lie I'nited States from
January 4 to September 22 amounted
o $.*5S4,4.10,000, the Federal Reservo
Ion I'd announced to-day. while In the
;atne period the exports were $$3,000,
ioo. Slore than $ 102.000.nno of the
unouni imported this year was in for
ilgn coin and about $2fif>.000,000 In bill
ion.
Meeting of Colonel Roosevelt
and Professor Taft Comes Off
as Advertised.
but no reconciliation
I Chilly "How-Do-You-Do's" 'Ex
change and That's
All.
^ ' *' ' * . Tlit'uilOlc
,:""vr'v"M Wi Ufa m M T:,ft clasped
l ., ,rlollir.tlf to-nlsrht at the
1 ,!"i? I.Pau?c club's reception to
Charley K Hughes
'Mow ,|., ? .vitj,| \,T;ir.
' do you M, Coospvoli ie
I.
?>ow,<|. ;thl| Mr. Roosevelt
"? >f s li i !.<? ha ri)|.c n-1 tli other
'' 'eavinjr Mi T.ift to cieet those
fallowed v r?w minutes later
All ? it tool; his- place fn Hi.
i.ing live. ijf stood liotn'ccn Mr.
Millies illl.l < :i IJ fl(f> y .M Pepew .lust
j?he other si,I,, of Mr. Dcpew fetood Mr.
i Thii?. landing ill I lie same receiving
i "MV s,'ook hands with the
' 'lr""S "f ' i,J,? "IKMllhcPjj fn| their KUCSts
t ??!"> tiled past during the evening.
- I hey ,|if| ;ltralM however, or
j ? ? ? nj* ??tr. rtnv other word than the com
| uonplaces ,,r greeting.
i "u"c shook hands," Mr. Taft said
tern aids. just liko any gentlemen
would shake hands."
Colonel Roosevelt declined to com
ment on the meetIng.
i After the handshaking was over and
IH.ra.v was cleared. Kiihu Hoot
president of the ..|?l?. O8? orted Mr
11 'if.' lies through a flap-drape.! corridor
t'> a small platform in the main club
toom. Reneath a life-size picture of
Abraham l.iuceh, Mr. Ho,.i .IKa,?
'.rodneed tli'- nominee arid Mr. Hughes
made a brb f address.
' 'olonel Roosevelt and Air. Taft were
called upon hy Air ltoot. and earl, re
sponded with a short talk
The meeting between Colon. ) Roose
velt and Air Taft was the first sin re
April 11 r< 1.1. wiien both were pall
] bearers ..t thr- funeral of Thomas Ti.
j Rounsberry. Ions-time professor of
I '-"Wllsh at Vale University. and a i
? . lose friend of both. < >11 that occasion I
they merely shook hands, evchanplng
I jio word
in M)iii:i)s i'iiksi-;vr nm
iti:< t?\(
- '' " reception was arranged
| ""? ago. and public announce- ]
invn:^ was made that Professor Taft I
land Colonel Roosevolt would meet. Tlie i
I hour set for the affair. S o'clock, found !
HI- i il hhoiise entran.e choked with
, huudi eds of men.
| The first to atjrive was Mr. Tat? ?
| I tv- miniitex later cam- Colonel Roose
??!l. ^ rhe packcd hallways cheered
hun. The cheering was still <? prop- :
ress when Air. Hughes reached the '
>uildi?g. The crowd cheered Mr. !
Hughes Colonel Roosevelt shook!
with eight or nine persons and I
? -" came the meeting between O>lo- I
?'H '?ooscvcli and Air. Taft. There was i
I" 7J;' ?f "'troduction-not time for
eves met r,'clio" of second thejrj
ar,1:1 looked into the!
other s unsmiling fa, e. TllCM Mr T
c>. en.ied his hand ?n* Colonel Roll
?hikes?, r' n,e,'? were other hand
t l akes of a formal nature. Among1
U.;'.r,\ !l,? nice tings bet wee,, .
Mr Po VrUi?? ???l Mr. Taft and'
Mi. Roosevelt and Moies Penrose s,n
f"'"1 Pennsylvania. ,ho t
case of th. greeting between Taft !
?<?osevelt. the cominonpla.-es of m-.-t.
inu were exchanged.
-We have heard in recent davs." Mr i
Hughes said in his address, "that the
alternative of the policy of the present 1
Hherni"!."1 !?' ' tl,ink
en I i , ? ? t'"" POliCV "f Pies- !
en' ?<>m.nl.,tratio? is pea.-e with honor, i
< ?>l,0\i:i, Midi '|'s 'MiOOI)"
IIIUI AHKS "K lll f.ll |.;s
Ue are not courting strugsrle. but
' ?o say with all seriousness that we
>; e been l,v,n8 i? ? poHoi, of ,
liuiniliat ion."
-t;ood!" Shouted colonel UoQsevelt
c,t izens have been murdered.!
property destroyed and our com
merce interrupted." Mr. Hughes add-,I.
c,/,' l| If ?f "Te,1?ly: Teddy: Teddv:-;
ofonel Uoosevelt ascended the plat,
foini at the close of Mr. Hughes's ad- !
dress. "No man has a right' to , lain, '
loinT k",ShiP W"h Ab,ilhi"? '???-!
(o n If no is too proud to fiKhf." Colo- i
nel Roosevelt said. "Pifty-odd >,ars'
ago there wore men in this emintrv i
h? were too proud to light, but the'v j
... ,,0! fouml in this club, and the'v'
did not vote for Abraham Lincoln
l irty-odd years ago there were men 1
?' lite nation that were too proud to |
lhe fo? ,,f Hie nation, lun thev |
were perfectly willing to n-i,, ,i,'o '
police and the draft riots.
"And now. jn the greatest crisis n ,t
we have seen since the Civil War. in !
? ho greatest crisis, as a whole, that
the world has seen since the Napoleonic
wars, jt is our duty and privilege to :
stand once more for the principles for !
which the men of the earl\ sixties .
who founded this club, stood: to stand I
for peace, honesty and sincerely by hon
orable expedient, but to stand for it in '
that effective wax which means Hint!
? he man .standing for it asks it as a
right, in the spirit of Justice, and does
not cringe for it as a favor to be
granted contempt uonsl.v by a wrong
doer.
"At this moment we are informed;
that in the Herman Reichstag there
Is a debate going forward as to whether i
or not they will resume what they call i
the c-boat warfare-?what I call tboi
murder on the high seas of men. women j
and children. And you can guarantee
that there would be no debate on that
subject if they knew that they had as
President of the United States a man
who would not tolerate any kind of
action of that sort."
BROOKLYN 10 BE
FOE OF RED SOX
Clinches Pennant in National
League by Victory Over ,
New York.
FIRST GAME ON SATURDAY
I
i World's Series Will Open on the
Braves' Field at
Boston.
nlm )??i;k October - The Boston
jAmeri.an , i,, i, nn,| t lio lirunk ?
In Va 1 ior.aJs will meet in the H?H5
I u 01 1?I - . t !?<? open in;: game of
j which wijl ?,e ?|iiye,i OM u,? Oaves'
^ ' '"?"?''?"i next Saturday, October.)
" 'v.-Ill remain in Bo-ton over
. Sundaj and 1.1 t - H,,. M.coin] ?anu< of
tm- yci j,.. t)1| Monday. Ocioljor
, |.. i mitting. after which they
? i'. ;11 rftiiri, to Brooklyn for two games,
a! Lbbet s 1- ifjrj on Tuesday and WmI
I ripyiliiy. f)rrol?.r j;,ml n Thc tlf,,,
: aixl .sixth tami'S. if necessary, will be j
played on Thursday. October 12. and
1.1. :,t r. oat on and ?
? I !rool< I n. resiw-i-t i vfly. Should n si-v. I
tenth ti.'uiic i>i ii? <m>s>s:?ry lo decide the
series, the place for the contest will
| be derided li\ iho loss'of a coin. as in;
| icist years
All 111?? v det iils wetc arrsinucd at a ,
meeting; ??f the National Baseball Oom- 1
mission in this ?-jty Hiis afternoon, but j
the pennant winner in the National ,
League wax not known at tlie time the'
'??niinission adjourned. and the same;
, dates that applied to Brooklyn also
.would have applied to thc Philadelphia'
I Nationals. Before nightfall, however.'
j the viftoi;-' of Brooklyn over New York J
land the double defeat administered to j
jthe Philadelphia Nationals by the I'.os-i
j ton dub i? f the same league clinched '
I the pennant for the Brooklyn players!
I and placed them in the. position of Na-;
I tional League champions.
j m i:i: ri m. i*? ii km) \s
OltK.I\.\ I,|,v s< 111.1)11.1.1)
'i'lic meeting of the national eotniitis-j
.-ion was attemled by almost the same)
| amount of uncertaint \ as marked the!
j final hours of the National League pen-'
siant struggle. < n iu ina My, it was in-|
'??tided to hold the conference here to-I
; day. but later it was decided to defer!
Jit until to-niorrow President John K.I
Tener. of the National League, and!
?"'bairnian CJarry Herrmann, of the com- ;
mission, arrived in this city late last j
night. but President B. B. Johnson, of
i he American League, was not expected ?
until to-morrow. When he appeared
on the scene early this morning there
was a hurried consultation, at which
it was decided to hold the meeting as
origins) 11 y scheduled.
Tentative arrangements already had
been made covering the possibilities of >
either Philadelphia or Brooklyn in the j
National I.eacue being the. opponents I
? ?f the Boston l!e<l Sox. and the snhed- j
ti 1 e of world's series games was sir-t
rstttged after a short discussion. Presi-!
dent l.anniu suggested that the series j
be opened sit the park of the Bos- j
ton Nationals, where the American I
'Leaguers will stage all their games. (
owing to its immense seating capacity, j
instead of deciding the place of the
initial games by the customary toss of
a. coin. This plan was adopted, in view
of the fact that either the Brooklyn or
Philadelphia clubs would require sev- !
or.il days in which to inststll additional1
seats stnd boxes to accommodate the!
large crowds,
pi..\ \ to sTAitT si:hii:>
l>\ MOMI.WjIS VIOTOKI)
President Baker proponed that the
series begin on Monday, October 1>. hut
this was vetoed by the commission as
being an unnecessary delay, as was si
suggestion that play start on Kriday.
? ictober ?'?. on the ground that the Na
tional I .est sue winner required a day
or two of rest before being Hung iu
the world's series with the Bed Sox,
who clinched their pennant two days
ago. The commission also dismissed
the plan to alteriisite the games be
tween the contending cities, but de
cided that, in case more than four
games were necessary. the fifth and
sixth would be alternate, with the place
of the seventh decided by the dipping
of a coin j
The selection of umpires for the so-!
? ics iviif delayed until after the out
coi.ie of the National League race, was
definitely known.
.1. <!. Tilylor-Spink. of St. I.oiiis. was
named as the oflb-iul scorer for the
national commission, and the Baseball
Writers' Association chapters of Bos
ton and Brooklyn were given the right
to nominate one member in each city
to net as second ollicitil scorer in his
home city. The visiting scorer will not
sot in an oflicial capacity ?.\hilc a way
from hopie
tiMniissim i)i:< ii)Ks
to m i:i:r o\ i.-hidav
After naming the list of eligible
players of the three dubs and an
nouncing that the commission would
meet for further business at .'5 P. Al. in
Boston on Kriday. October the con
ference adjourned to attend the games
in which Brooklyn captured the Na
tional l.cague pennant after one of the
< lo.sest and most exciting races isi the
history of the sep.por league.
The commission siniiouneed the
eligible players as follows:
Boston?\\. !?'. i 'n rrigiin, manager:
Agnew. Marry, t'ady. Koster. tiainor.
? Jardner. Oregg. 11enriksun. Ilohlitzel,
Hooper, .lanvriii, Jones. Leonard. Lewis,
Mays. McNally. Bnth. Scott. Shore,
Shorten. Thomas. Wagner, Walker!
Walsh si lid Wyckoff.
Brooklyn?W. Bohinson. manager;
Appbton. ('iitsh.'i w. I'oombs. <'hence'
Hstubcrl. I ?e 11. iJetz, Johnston, Miller,
?Mails, Myers. Merkle, .Marquard!
Meyers. Mowrey. < dsou, O'Mstra
Pfcffer. Bucket*. Smith, Stengel. Wheat.
The umpires, it was announced later,
will be j|s follow s:
American League- Binecn and Con
noil y.
National League?O'Hay and Quig
ley.
Karh will receive ll.'iOO for his ser
vices.
Rising Tendency of Prices
Shown in .Reports to Depart
ment of Agriculture.
MANY NEW RECORDS MADE'
Local Jobbers in Foodstuffs Say
Prices Are One-Third High
er Than Last Year.
)*i ?????>> ?jf seven leading staple
stuf;'s in Hi is oil v, as quoted yesterday
'>> i In- joliljci's, sliowfdl an increase
avi-'HL'in!; per rent within the
twolv. mom lis since Uoiolici 1 last
Tin? increased prices, resulting
? corresponding higher cost of liv
ing- "\;m;-|i SOS to t ll?- COltSUIlie: \\ , r(.
11! ri Im ta lilo. not to one. Will several.
? iiii-. by KIi'IiiiioikI wholesale men.
Several ?if tfio staples showed Incrr-ases
ranging froiii J" to .*>(? per cent. ivlillr
?lie articles of foodstuffs ilsoil in ;t
lessor voliinie also showed a<l v;i noos,
some creator tlian others.
In Itichitioinl the priro of sugar. com
parison being made with the quotations
of tlie jobbers as of October 1. IM.".
showed an advance of 40 per cent. re
sulting from war conditions in Kiirupc,
it was stated. Jobbers were soiling
floni yesterday at an average advance
of 1 -;! per cent as compared with the
same day a year ago. The rise in t!io
cost of flour, dealers said, was canned
by both the small, wheat crop this year
and the war. With a largo crop last
> '.ar and no war. the surplus would
have been siiflicicnt I" title the country
over this year without any marked ad
vances. tliey said.
i\< nr. nsi:i> iio:i<;ht it vrr.s
IM'MI I I' COl'I'KI'; I'KICKS
Tiansportation difllculties and in- .
i roused freight rates had resulted in the
wholesale price of coffee beine about j
">0 per cent higher this year than j
twelve months ago. Jobbers traced to j
the small corn crop last year and the
heavy exports the advanced price.** in ;
lard, salt pork and meal, l-'or the tlrst j
two it?>ms tin- corn shortage ina.de the.
production of pork expensive and. to-]
gotliet with tremendous exports, re
sulted in the higher prevailing prices.
I.ard was quoted l.'i per cent, salt pork \
per cent and meal 11 per cent '
greater than the prices quoted the same j
day a year iiko. War conditions have!
resulted in the price of cheese climbing
"ft per cent over that of last year.
Kichmond wholesale men yesterday
directed attention to what they de- '
scribed as a "different time" in which
this country was living to-day. The
changing: prices of foodstuffs, they saiil.
?ere, i:t a largo sense, normal when
consideration was given to the many
factors that enter into the control of}
selling price. Practically every item in |
every line of business, they said, had <
shown more ftr loss largo increases 1
within the past year.
i t.hi it ti i?;i(i:it tii \ \
M\ti: 4 IX II. \\ a it ,
WASH IX< 5TON. October :i. ? Marked j
increase in the cost of living is shown
in the rising tendency of prices of
foodstuffs on October I. reports of
which are just being received at the
Department of Agriculture from the
principal markets of the country.
With flour selling at prices higher
than at any time since the Civil War.
duo principally to the shortage of the
wheat crop this year, the cost of pota
toes has mounted for the same reason.
Meat prices continue to advance, with
prices being paid producers of meat
animals showing almost IM per cent
over what was paid a year ago. Mut
ter. eges and cheese all are selling \
at high? r prices for this time of the
year than they were last year, ami
beans show ail increase of more than
70 per cent over a year ago. because of
the short crop Onions are more than
50 per rent higher, and cabbages more
than 10 per cent higher.
Prices paid to producers of farm
products increased 9.8 per cent during
August, while during the last eight
years these prices have shown a de
crease of about -.1 per cent during
that month. September began with
the index figures of these prices VI.!*'
per cent hiulier than it was a year ago.
Mutter was selling about I 2 per cent
higher than ? year ago, according to
the latest statistics available to-day at
the I ?epartuieiit of Agriculture. The
price was I ??lit a pound higher than
it had been in the last eight years at
this time of the year. Kggs were sell
ing a cents a do/.'ti higher than last
year, but were lower for the period
than ia several of the last eight years.
Potatoes wero selling lit! per cent
high er than i year ago. Ohoo.se showed I
an increase in price <>f more iliao 2::
per i ? 111 over a year ago. and was
higher titan it had been in the last
eight years bring I 1-2 cents a pound
more than flu- highest price in those
yea rs.
Ilogs were selling per cent higher
than a je;ir ago; beef cattle, more than
7 per ceit! higher; veal calves more
than 10 pel out higher; sheep more
than * pei c< ni higher, and lambs more
than 2" per c< ni higher.
iti:< <>it i> rim i:s
roit it ITT 10 it and i-:?;<;s
< * III?* A ? ?. October ?What are
characterized as tile highest prices ever
known at this season for butter and
eggs at t'hicago prevailed here to-day, '
according to reports from merchants.
Kxtras in creamery butter sold at from
;iS to trt cents a pound, as against 27
cents a year ago for the same grades.
Kggs retailed around 7 cents a dozen,
tile same ela ? silicai ion selling a year I
ago at Ji--' to 2 I cents.
Cheese dealers reported American
cheese selling at 20 to '.'I 1 -2 cents a
pound. against Mi l-i to It 1-2 a
year a Co.
Other food products showed as ujuch
or more ialion in value, a notable
instance being potatoes, which Jobbed
at Ji.'.ii a bushel, as against IS cents
a year ago. Meals .show an in
crease in prices front 5 io 30 per
(.Continued on Scconti i'agc.)
"Woodrow Wilson Day"
Will Be October 28
\ I: \\ \ OIIK, October :t.?Oi'luhrr
US H:im been Ni'lrclril mm "\\ iiiiilrniv
\\ 11 ko ii l)nj." Thin ?iii iiimle knotin
by lieiiiocrn I Ic .>111101111! 4 It ii i riii ii ii
llcCormlek to-iln.*. It i.<* proposed
In linvr \\ ll*nii mtiMn-iiirrlIiiuh
nliiiiiltnneounl t in i-irr.i c11? sinrl
lilliiltr In I Ii?- roiiiilrj . Thrre ?HI
In- parades, music. NiirrrlirM tinil
fireworks.
Whether tin* I'rrxldent will Inlk
nt sliiulow l.iiiin or elsewhere U jet
ti? lie determined < hnlrimiii Mr
Coriulck nrriiiiRetl ttilli him on >I?mi
?Iny Hint lie iilKiiiiil speak nt I'I nei li
mit I, llhio. Oi-ltilicr "II. Miifltr lie
Mill pari ieipn I e In llie Miiillnin
.Stiunre delimits trillion the ali;lif be
fore llie presidential elect Inn. Other
\r? \ ink dales hn\e j et to be
liked.
?PEN IS LAUNCHED
FOB ARMENIAN RELIEF
. Greatest IllVoit Uudyitnkcii Since
lU'luiaii Commission Was
< >rgniii/.cil.
I r\i) or .sr,,000,000 is \i:i:di:d
Appeal*. Sent t<? Ministers t?r llio.ooo
(hutches ? Many Thoiisantls (if
I'eople Are Starving la Death, j
\\ hole Villages Wiped Out.
W ASH 1 N (', T O X. ? .. toiler -The !
greatest American relief campaign to!
*,r* ""'h'rtakeii since organlzat ion of.
the r.oluian itelief Commission was |
launched to-day by the American Coin- ?
inittee for Armenian and Syrian Itelief. i
An exhaustive summary of tin- whole!
Ai meniau and Syrian situation was
made public, and will be sent to min- j
isters of 120.000 churches all over the !
country anil to many leading citizens |
and relief orpanizat ions. ,\ fund of
is called for to relievh t a,,,,.
exiled and siaivln- \r
tnenians and Syrians, scattered broad
cast ..\et Turkey. I?ersia. Syria and I
? ilfMine. rin? :i|)poal ?lo?*I:in\s that of j
nearl\| 2.000.00O Armenians originally
in their native country. three-i|iiarler.s
'?i a million have been massacred or
have died of wounds, disease or ex
haustion since the war begun.
Hl.tM'KA IH-: IS l.ll-'Ti:i>
TO IT.IOIIT I'ASSAtiK ;
The State Department. through!
in gent negotiations, recently secured'
Turkey's consent to extension of I
American relief, provided it is dis- 1
tributed jointly by Hie American Ued
t'ross and the Turkish I ted Crescent.
To-tlay it was announced that the
allied blockade bad been lifted to
allow passage of the supplies. < ictoher
-1 and, Jl1 have been set aside by proc
lamation by President. Wilson as relief
days, and the appeal being .sent broad
cast by the committee calls for ser
mons in every pulpit of (he country
and articles In every newspaper.
Some of the Armenians cannot be
icached. since Turkey's consent has not
been extended Armenia proper.
Man\ thousands would be found in
Persia, however, and the se-lions re
cently conquered by the Russians, as
well as in Syria. In this latter sec
tion, the appeal dec la res, the situation
has been made even more terrible by
restrict ions of the allied blockade and
the scarcity of Turkish railroads, by
the exportation of supplies for the!
Turkish armies and by the destruction (
of other supplies by a virulent locust I
scou rge.
People were found eating grass.!
herbs and locusts," says the committee
in describing its investigation of con
ditions there, "and In desperate cases'
dead animals and human bodies are
reported to have been eaten. In some
cases men were lined up so that sev-|
eral could be ,shot with one bullet, in >
order not to waste ammunition. A j
mother said that not a t;irl above j
twelve (and some younger) in the vll-j
lage of escaped violation. The!
people kill and eat the street dogs, j
A short time ago they killed and atej
a dying man.
OK I.Vl O\ K VII.I.AI.K.
oxi,i om: woman i.i\i-:sj
"<if i.-.o from one villauc. only one!
woman.lives. She saw her husband and'
three sons tied together and shot with!
one bullet to save ammunition. She!
saw her daughters outraged and then;
killed. She was carried away by ,x)
Kuril, but escaped by night, naked, and. '
alter terrible suffering. f?-11 in with'
some refugees.
"In the literal sense of the word,
about 120.IHIU Armenians arrived at j
Ktchiniad/in stripped even of their I
outer garmenis. There 11.900 people;
died and PMimi more in the country. i
'In Aleppo relief funds arc-so inaib - j
quale that many exiles in the destitute)
places have only grass to eat. and they
are dying of starvation by the bun-|
d reds. Krzrook seems to have been'
dealt with most savauelv. I.ess than!
? 00 Armenians out of '"O.imiii have es- <
ca|>ed death or deportation.
"(if the lirst caravan of (Ii'ii people j
sent from Deir /.or to \ua. the Arabs [
killed .VO on the way. In a native let-j
ter from llnleh last week the number!
of orphans at that place was estimated'
at 0iM>. Some of the villages lost
more than one-third of their poputn-j
t ion."
MUNSEY SEEING THINGS ;
Publisher I'reilielN Victory fur Nation- ^
Wide Prohibition mill t'liurlen
I!. Iliiiilir.H.
[Special ('abb to The Tillies-1 Mspatch.] i
i'AUIS, October :t.?Nation-wide pro. j
hibition in the I'nited States within
ten years and a victory for ('buries K.
Dutches in die presidential election
were predicted to-day by Krnnk A.
.Mnnsey. the American publisher. "\V>
will have national prohibition in
America within ten years." he declared.
"As to the presidential contest, all my
information la that the cl.ances of Jus
tice Hughes arc increasing daily and
that he will probably win."
RETIRES BEFORE
ALLIED FORCES
Field Marshal Orders Evac
uation of Silistra and
Turtukai.
IN DANGER OF BEING
ENVELOPED BY ENEMY
Berlin Officially Admits That
Armies Have Begun
fcetreat.
B I I. (i A R T A IS THRKATKNKD
('iiiSMim of Dntiiilie by Roumanians
Is Slronu Slrntt'sle
Move.
[Special ("iible iii The Thn^s-I >is|i:itcli.]
I/t.VO'i.V. Ocloltpr 3.?Pilistra sunt
'I' u r t tt k a i. Roumanian strongholds
seized by the Mnlgnrs after the en
trance nf Roumania into lho1 war. have
boon ordered evacuated by Field Mar
shal von .Markonson, commanding' in
liolnudja. according to oflicl.i 1 reports
from Paris.
The order is interpreted here as
recognition of the inennee to the Rul
gar-Teuton line in Dohrmlja offered by
the passage of the Damihe yesterday
J?y Roumanian troops between Rust
chuk and Turtukai.
Although the Roumanians continue
to gain ground a trains! the Austro
'icrman armies at various points in
Transylvania, the situation in Pobriitljn.
which has nttVmed added interest since
the orossitu? of the Danube into Bul
garia l?y Roumanian forces, remains
uncertain.
Mukharest says tliat violent lighting
continues all along the line south of
tiic railroad running from t'onstanza
to the Danube, with the Teutonic allies
offering stubborn resistance to I lie |{ou- .
manian and Russian forces. Nothing is
vouchsa f?d. however, concerning the
troops which invaded Bulgaria.
mtiix;i:s auk iikstiioykd
ItKllIM) ItOl .llAMANS
Solla says that only "several bat
talions" of Roumanians made their way
across tin* river, and Merlin reports the
destruction behind them, by German
monitors, of the. pontoon bridges over
which they passed.
Heavy rains arc interfering with the
activities nf tin- F.ritish and French
armies in the Somine region of France,
but. nevertheless, l'aris records the cap
ture of an important trench north of
Kancourt and the taking ot" additional
prisoners, while Kondon says the tight
lug at Kancourt I'Abbayo "is proceed
ing sa tisfaetorily."
Violent lighting has been in progress
in Russia, west of I.utsk, and lit Ga
licia. in the region of the Zlot.a-l.lpa
River.
in the latter region, according to l'c
trograd. neither the Russians nor the
Teutonic allies have been able to gain
any 'marked advantage. West of I.utsk,
according to Retrograd. tin- Russians
made advances, but Merlin reports that
all attacks here were repulsed, the
Russians suffering exceptionally heavy
casualties. In the attacks, says Rcr
l i it. which were preceded by tcrrltlc
bombardments, the Russian-guard made
seventeen unsuccessful onslaughts and
another division made twelve.
As regards the lighting in Macedonia,
Solla admits that the heavy artillery
lire of the Serbs in the region of
Kaimaikelau Height caused the Bul
garians to withdraw to the Moglenica
Valley, in order to avoid unnecessary
losses, bul asserts that entente attacks
elsewhere along the front were re
pulsed.
Ill M.Alt IV Vs \ IIA V IIO.V
SI'.VKItAI. POSITION*
Merlin records an advance by the
Austro-i ierman forces against the Rrlt
i.-h. who recently crossed the Struma
northwest of I.ake Tahinos. while un
oliicia) advices from l'aris say the I!ul
garians have abandoned several posi
tions in the Starkov Grob and Mrod
River regions, and that four towns
northeast of Fiorina, in Greece. have
ln-eii occupied by the entente allies.
In Albania, according to ai. Athens
dispatch, the Italian militaty authori
ties have occupied Argyro I'.istio. hav
ing ordered the Greek military ollicinls
tbi ii- to evacuate the town.
Kxcept for the capture l>> the Ital
ians of two lofty peak- held by the
Austria lis and a continuation of the
heavy bombardment by the Austrian*
of the I'nrso front in the hands of the
Italians, there has been little activity
in the Austro-Italian theater.
The Greek situation continues to de
velop. King <'onstant Inc. according to
an \thens dispatch, lias in his hands
the resignations of the members of the
i ?.linnet except those of the Premier
and the Foreign Minister 11 is prob
able that the new Cabinet will contain
several supporters of former Premier
V? ni/.elos. who i- in favor of Greece's
entry into the war on the side ot the
entente allies.
A I STItO-t.r.ll >1A N TltOOIV*
\ It K FOIUKM TO UKTIItK
MKRl.iN. October 3 < * in I.onrtonl.?
Otlicial announcenient was made hero
to-da.v thni Austro-Gerinan troops in
Transy Ivania in the region north of
Fogaras bad withdrawn before superior
Roumanian forces.
II I'VI'll K AT IIV III' l<C? A It IA A S
\ I) M ITT I1'II in MH-'IA
SuFiA. t.ictober 2 (via i.ondou. Oc
tober ;i I.?A retreat by the Bulgarians
under heavy Serbian artillery tire I
reported in an otlb-ial statement ivsued
by the War Orticc referring to th<
Macedonian front.
ffl
