THI8 PAPER Itaued In
two sections Section
two—'Paget 1 to 8—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
ILLINOIS CENTRAL
107 Autos Go Over Crossing of Which
Number 88 Made No Attempt to
Look for Trains".
Hardly a day passes but -what the
newspapers contain accounts of acci
dents at railway crossings and' since
the advent of the-automobile these ac
cidents have multiplied until the rail
roads of the country have undertaken
to ascertain the cause so that it might
be remedied. The Illinois Central rail
way is one of the leaders in this move
ment and recently ordered every train
master in Its entire system to invest!
gate conditions at three crossings in
each division *to see how conditions
might be improved for the safety of
tho public."
at 8 o'clock in the morning and re
malned there until 6 o'clock, counting
the machines crossing the track and
observing what precautions people
crossing the tracks were taking. Dur
ing the ten hour period Mr. Mills
states that 107 automobiles passed
over this crossing, of which 88 Qf
them, or 7S per cent, made no attempt
to look fo trains in either direction.
Only 19 drivers looked in both direc
tions for approaching trains and only
4 out of the 107 slackened their speed
before crossing the tracks. While Mr
Mills was at this crossing 37 teams
crossed, 21 of which did not look for
trains in either direction. Railroad
employes were not aware of the fact
that the trainmaster was making ob
servations at this crossing and Mr.
Mills paid particular attention to the
manner in which the engineers fol
lowed the instructions given them when
approaching crossings. Every train
passing gave a long crossing whistle
and the bell was rung until after the
machines and vehicles over this cross
ings slowed down and looked in each
direction.
"It is a fact that most of the acci
dents occurring at railroad crossings
are due to the negligence of drivers
who do not take precautions. Yester
day was an extremely windy dAy and
it would be a hard matter to hear an
approaching train, but still only
small per cent of the drivers slack lit tobacco gores up.
oncd their speed when approaching
the crossing. If all drivers would heed
the "Stop! Look and Listen" sjgns at
crossings there would be fewer acci
dents.
1
DEATH'OF GEO! FLINT.
Qne of the Leaders Among Railroads
in Movement to Ascertain Cau'e
of Crossing Accidents.
„-AD ucor One of the oldest settlers of Nishna
WATCHES CROSSING NEAR HERE
One of the Oldest Settlor? in Nishna
botny Townshl|i Goo. .Flint,
Passes Away. Saturday.
botny
township, Mr. Geo. E. Flint, died
at the home of his daughter, Mrs. John
Meyers, at Elbow Lake, Minn., on last
Saturday. The funeral was held in
the' front yard of his home two miles
north of Manilla on Tuesday, the ex
ercises being in charge of Elder Craig
pastor of the Holinqps churches in this
locality. Mr. Flint was one of the old
est settlers of the county, coming here
in 1878. He was one of the pioneers
of Nishnabotny township and acquired
400 acres of land in that locality and
he also owned a section of land near
Elbow Lake, Minn. He leaves five
boys and two girls. The burial was
made in Nishnaboty, with a large at
tendance of neighbors and friends.
Too much cannot be said in eulogy
of Mr. Flint. He was a man of devout
christian character, and his every
dealings showed that he was sincere
There was no resident of the vicinity
of Manilla who stood higher in public
esteem. The Flint name has stood
Mr. N. P. Mills,, of Ft. Dodge, train
master for the Omaha & Ft. Dodge di
vision, spent yesterday in Denison and nrnV'siinrmrt. of
nhaoi-vori tiin vrnn«in? lust west of the
"r
^flod citizensntp, ana support or
upon the lips of hundreds of people in
the last few days when the news of his
death reached our county.
9IG AUDIENCE IN ATTENDANCE.
First Number of Lecture Course Last
Evening, Largely Attended and
Number Was Pelasing.
I
The opening number of the lecture
course was given last evening at the
new opera house. The entertainment
was furnishes by the Weatherwax
Brothers and consisted of songs, reel
tations and instrumental selections. If
the opening number is to be taken as
a criterion for others to follow, it is
safe to predict a successful season.
A large audience greeted the per
formers and showed every evidence of
appreciation. The Weatherwax Broth
ers have visited Denison before, hav
ing been one of the attractions at the
Chautauqua a few years ago and evi
ana ine Den was rung, uum mc .—
train had passed the crossing. It was .dently a recollection of the impression
a notable fact that the women driving 'made at that time accounted for the
Lot B—Men's sweaters, regular $5.00 values, $2.98
a I 1
large attendance last evening. It is
said the coming numbers in the course
will be equally as -good as the opening
one and if so the management wlir
be entitled to the thanks of the com
munity.
The fact that a man buys cheaper
cuts of meat for his family does not
a prove that he will buy cheaper cigars
DENISON HIGH
EVERY
In Making Our October Sale Announcement for Men
We headed itas follows: "Here's Real News For the Men." We did not make this assertion for sensational
reading. We were honest in saying that we had real news for the men. And we realize that the great volume
of business in our men's we^' department sincei,oyir first announcement justifies us in ...spying ag»iiir-:v Heres
Real New* Fpr the Meirub Ftr this, the s^coiid w&k of oui»-October 8ale, we offer
Dsnis^n High School Football Team
Journey to Carr°li Las Salturdafy
and Wins a Game.
THE SCORE STOOD 22 TO 7
Coach Lynch Holds the Deniaon Boys
Oown, Being Content to Win the
Game by a Small Margin.
The local high school football team
opened the season Saturday at Car
roll,. playlng-the fast high school team
at that'place, and vton the game by ,a
score of 22 to 7.. The score was a dis
appointment to many of the Denison
football enthusiasts, inasmuch as the
local team has always conquered the
Carroll eleven by huge scores, making
it more of a track event than a foot
ball game. Professor Lynch, who is
coaching .the Denison team, would not
permit the boys to run up a big score
against Carroll, but was contented to
win the game by a safe margin. The
Denison team won the game on
straight football and used but- four
simple plays to land the victory. Car
roll has one of the strongest teams in
years and they put up an excellent ex
hibition of the game.
Denison scored in the first quarter
when Lehfeidt made a 40 yard end run
for ,a touchdown. It was a most serf
satibnal play. O'Connor failed to kick
goal. In the third quarter Locke in
tercepted a fordwafd pass of Carroll's
atad made a pretty 3$ yard run with
the pigskin for a touchdown, but Locke
failed in his attempt to kick goal. In
this quarter O'Connor made a pretty
drop kick of 25 yards. In the last
quarter consistent gains were made
by line smashes and short end runs
and when three yards from Carroll's
goal O'Connor made a line smash, put
ting the ball over for another touch
down
Coach Lynch gave a number of his
squad a workout in this game in order
to try them out for places on the team
when the big game is played with
west high of Des Moines on the local
gridiron next Saturday. The gapie
with Des Moines will be' the biggest
event of the football season and we
have It on good authority that there is
a chance for Denison winning this
game. West high is said to have the
best high aphool team in the state this
year, but Denison feels that, its- team
is just a little faster. The game is
attracting Cofisiderable attention and
will draw a big crowd from surround
ing towns. A big delegation from Car
roll will witness the game and many
from towns in this county have signi
fied their intention of seeing the game.
The game will be called at
THE DENISON REVIEW
t3:45
o'clock. Tickets for the same may be
Y^ChoiM^lOOmiPff'Suits at $13.85•
And in this showing are suits that arrived on our floor as late as Monday of this week They are all wool fabrics
tailored in the unexcelled Menagh way. Conservative styles for the middle aged and older man, and more ex
treme styles for the young man. And the price ^you pay for these suits—your choice at $13.85—for garments
that are priced regularly by us as high as 817,50. Come now and get the benefit of a larger selection.
Special Offering on Men's and Boys' Sweaters
This lot is made up of 150 sweaters and is priced to mean a saving of 25 to 50 per cent on each purchase.
Lot A—Men's sweaters, regular $6,00 vajues, $3.95
on'tdelay, but take advantage of the special prices
in every department. It means dollars in your pocket.
Lot C—One lot of men's and boys' sweaters, regularly
priced at #1.50 to $3.00 during this week at a special dis
count of 20 per cent.
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4, 1916.
purchased up town .at any of the, fol
lowing places: Kenuniag Clothing Co.
Milhek Cafe, Crawford County State
Bank and Hotel Denison.
Below "we give the lineup used at
Carroll last Saturday: Lally, right end
Helsley, right tackle Hollern, right
guard Cavett, center Brodersen, Geo.
left guard Strahan, left tackle Gary
left end O'Connor, J., quarter Leh
feidt, fullback Flinn, right half
Brodersen,- Henry, left half. Substi
tutes Suiter .- for Lally Flinn for
Gary Locke for Flinn McCord for
Henry Brodersen.
PRESIDENT NOT TO STOP.
President Wilson Will Pass Through
City Tomorrow, Enroute to Oma
ha, Where He is to Speak.
President Wilson will pass through
Denison tomorrow" (Thursday) morn
ing over the" Chicago & Northwestern
railway, enroute to Omalia, where he
will spend the day. The president will
travel west on the second section of
No. 7, known as the Los A.ngeies Lim
ited, and will go through Denisorr
about 9:20 a. m.
Mr. Wolf, local agent of the. North-'
western, informs the Review that the
second section of the Los Angeles Lim
ited is not scheduled to stop in Deni-
1
son. although it is 'possible that a stop
might be made here for -water. The
'second section of No. 7 will be a spe
cial train made up exclusively for the
'purpose of carrying the pKesidential
party from Chicago to Omaha. Mrs.
Wilson will accompanv the president.
President Wilson will sneak at. Oma
ha Thursday evening at the auditorium
building and is to review the Ak-sar
ben historical parade in the afternoon
from a special reviewing stand erect
ted in front of the Douglas county
court house. Denison people who care
I to go to Omaha to bear the address
may leave here over the Los Angeles
.Limited at 9:06 in the morning, which
will arrive just flj3en minutes before
{the special train carrying the presi
dent.
The return trip will also be made
'over the Northwestern line, the presi
jdential party leaving Omaha at 10:10
tomorrow night on: the second sec-.relationship
I tion of the Los Angeles Limited, and
will pass through Denison shortly af
ter midnight.
Chairman McCownick of the demo
iiKntic national committe »sayi3 the
campaign is progressing satisfactorily
Since democratic leaders expressed
themselves as "sa&sftedf' with results
in Maine.'hla statement may be con
strued to mean tliat utlie campaign is
progressing satisfactorily to both re?
publicans and democrats. Democratic
leaders seem to be satisfied with al
most anything this year, just as Presi
dent Wilson was satisfied with diplo
matic "triumphs" in •which he came
off second best.
Women's
PRIZE ESSAY ON
GOOD ROADS
Loren Butler, of Arion, Writes Essay
on "Good Roads" for Prize at
Crawford County Fair.
NUMBER OF STUDENTS ENTERED
Good Roads a Necessity, Bring Com
munity Into Harmony and Work
for |the Good of All.
At the Crawford county fair held
last month at Arion, prizes were offer
ed for the best essays on "Good Roads"
School children throughout the county
took an active interest in the contest
and several essays were entered. One
of the best of these has been handed
the Review for publication. It was
written by Loren Butler, of Arion. The
essay follows:
"How Good Roads Will Benefit the
Iowa Farmer."
Good roadways mean profit and com
fort, that is why the Iowa Farmer is
so intensely interested in the present
state-wide movement for better roads.
Your Lowa, farmer today, just- like
your city man, is here to live our life,
as wetlear/ itfiovy demands lo4^inuous
moving abqut, a constant cantact be
tween the various elements that make
up our human organization.
This demands communication, and
the best way to obtain this at the dis
posal of our state is the common dirt
road.
"Roads which bring men together
and develop common interests among
'them, and hence a community and
I districts together, and form for us
a united state spirit so necessary now
in the great forward movement that
our states have entered into. Thus our
roads are one of our great agents in
advancing civilization, the child liv
ing in the country, if he or she be fa
vored by good roads, may have one of
the most precious things In life, an edu
cation.
Education means culture, tljis leads
to happiness and prosperity. Now the
of roads to your entire
life is clearly shown if you will only
S remember that good roads permit- cen
tralized schools, thus a better prepara
tion for your whole Jlfe.
One of the worst features about our
rural life today Is the Isolation the
poor road makes for the farmer's wife
and family. Recreation must enter into
their life, if we are to maintain our
country population.
They must have their clubs and soc
ial meetings, this and this alone will
destroy the monotony of their lives
which has forced many a young coun
try boy or girl into the glaring lights
of the city.
The greatest drawback to the coun
try life is the bad roads, that is why
our Iowa farmer has so ambitiously
Who has not taken advantage of this, the greatest October Sale that Denison has everjenowq, it losing money every day by failing to'attend and supply
their wants in winter merchandise at our October Sale Prices. Last week, we did the greatest, volume of business we T.f ®ver known at^this
the,year. Stocks are being depleted very rapidly, and it is. only,* matter cf ten days before the most desirable lineswjU be sold. We Would advise you
to act quickly.
-v
woman who seeks refinement and lasting style will fiad what she .wants in the Menagh Coats and Suits that are being shown this
of this display at rived on our floor Monday of this week. Personality, refinement and culture, together with individuality are qualities of
shown at this time. Seventy-five Suits and about one hundred Coats are being offered this week.
$35.00.
title The
come forward in the past few years
with that wonderful halping spirit of
his
1
as he donates day after day, free
his time his horses, and machinery in
the creation of better roads.
Besides the economical side of good
roads question, which is self evident
there is the important idea of pride
which, when it thoroughly becomes
operative' benefits the farmer materi
ally. Good roads have caused the aver
age farmer to take an interest in the
general appearance of his entire place.
Now your farmer has his clean-up
day, his woven Wire fences, while
structed In a very neat fashion, while
the edges of the highway are usually
covered with a green, blue-grass coat
much different in the general tone than
heretofore was given to that same
farm, by it's broken down, neglected
fences, and it's weedy, ragged, road
way, this adds greatly to the value
of the lands, but it is not this alone
that should be noticed, but the moral
influence, this same spirit enters the
entire community, and in the more re
fined life, which naturally grows out
of it, and makes our life worth while,
and worth living.
This movement for godd roads has
experienced already, a wonderful ef
fect upon the people of our state, they
have entered into our conception of
what country life can bring.
It has made them think, and the idea
of a state beautiful is perhaps not far
from being realized.
FAILURE FINANCIALLY
Carnival in Denison Laa|t Week Great
ly Disappointed Financially, Cool
and Rainy Weather Cause.
The carnival came to a close Satur
day night after a week's engagement
and from a financial standpoint was
not a great success, the Denison fire
men, under whose auspices it was
held, realizing less than $200 as their
share of the proceeds. From this
amount the firemen will have to settle
for the electric current, advertising
and for cleaning up the streets, so
that when all the bills are paid they
will have left about $100. This mon
ey will go into a fund for the purchase
of a fire truck."
The Ed A. Evans greater shows fur
nished the attractions for the week of
entertainment and were above the av
erage usually found with carnivals. All
of the shows were clean and there Is
no reason for complaint with any of
the attractions. The merry-go-round
proved to be the best paying attrac
tion of the week with the musical
maids second, while many of the at
tractions failed to make expenses.
Weather conditions were anything
but favorable for the carnival. The
lueayy rain of last Tuesday interferred
with the attendance, keeping people
from a distance from coming. It was
too cold and disagreeable throughout
the entire week to arouse in people a
carnival spirit, although every citizen
in Denison was anxious to co-operate
to make it a success.
The Suits
Every one of our 75 suits being shown this week rep
resents a distinct and individual style. The woman who
admires smart style, and especially the woman who has
hunted in vain for just the fall suit she wants, will find a
pleasant surprise awaiting her in our "Women's Wear Pe
partment. She will find a wide
chojc©
fabrics, in all the season's newest "weaves. The most de
sirable shades for fall we^p ^im?e ,$een here—navies, bur,
gundies, greens, blacks, ^ines, novelty effects, and in fact,
all the season's newest ideas are being shown. An4 the
prices rango from $19.50 and $22.50 up
of good and stylish
to
Thir66iits
The coats ai*e shown in the new smart lines for fall
wear, a charming feature of which is the graceful flare
effect. There is an easy freedom about the new Menagh
coats which no woman who is seeking the utmost in coat
values can afford to overlook. Our offering for this week is
made up only of coats of the most expert and careful tailor
ing, which,is given to all Menagh garments. And just think!
All our garments are censored by America's most noted
style experts. You take no chance in making a selection
from our stock* The prices of the coats offered are $19.50,
$22.50, $25.00, $29.50 and up to $49.50. We shall be glad
to show you these new coats, and would advise you to come
as early as possible.
$29.50 and
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appre
elated.
No. 40
^ATTAIN HONORS
Denison Boys Prominent Athletes at
Colleges Throughout State As
Well As Good Students.
MEYERS INJURED AT FOOTBALL
Quarterback for Des Moines Collage
Hurt in Game With Cornell Col
lege Last Saturday.
The boys who have gone away to
the higher institutions of learning
from the Denison liigh school have all
taken good standings in their studies
and in the athletic contests which
seem now to go with the uptodate in
stitutions of learning. The excellent
drill given foot ball and basket ball
at home has brought to the front the
Denison boys. It will be called to mind
that Oscar Strahan, Charles Helsley,
Carl Kuehnle jr., William McHenry,
Clifford Barborka, and others have at
tained honors in foot ball and jumping
and like athletic sports. With the open
ing of the foot ball season this year,
other Denison boys come into promin-.
ence among their fellow students,
among them being Harry Meyers, who
Is attending Des Moines college. He
went down early to college this year
and Into training in foot ball and as
a result of his showing, was made the
quarter back of the team. Those ac
quainted with the game know that
with this position goes the calling of
the signals and during the actual play
ing, the quarter back Is the directing
spirit.
The Des Moines team had Its first
chance to show Its metal at Mt. Ver
non last Saturday when It played the
bovs at Cornell. The score stood Cor
nell 12, Des Moines 0. From the news
paper accounts the game was extra
fine, and the Des Moines team gave
the Cornellians a surprise-in their ab
ility to play. For the first three quar
ters of the game, the score stood no
thing for either side, Harry and his
plucky mates holding their own, he
being personally to m^ke because of
his position, many gains but these did
not suffice to get the ball over the line
At the end of the third quarter young
Meyers was injured,, his left shoulder
being torn and a finger of- the other
hand broken. In the remaining quarter
the Cornell team scored twelve. In the
Monday Register we see the following
from Mt. Vernon, which shows that
the game was a fine one, reflecting
oredit on both teams:
"Des Moines, college sprang a sur
prise on Cornell here to.day. in the
opening foot ball, game of the
season,
playing the Mt. Vemon eleven
even
for the first three quarters. In the
final quarter of play, Cornel scored
(Continued on Page Four.l
-x-'.r
week. Most
every garment
OwUit U»
Tto »IK*
0k
