A-.;.
BEN
nil: WtATUEK
INDIANA AND IWKi: Miff II
OAN. dfrcr.illy fair tor-.irht and
Thursday; colder Thür.--! ay.
E
VENIN G
EDITION
VOL. XXXIII., NO. 278.
DAY AND NIGHT PULL LHASKD
V. 1KB TELEUKAPUIC SEltVICE.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4, 1916.
A NEWSPAPER rOR TUB IT OMR
WITH ALL TUE LOCAL NOVS.
PRICE TWO CENTS
11" ""J
i
! 3
Ü
SOUTH
NEWS-TIMES
n n s
1
f
n
P
I U li ,
J uIjII
ir
ALLIED DRIVE
HIE SUCCESS
CLAIMS 11
British Forces Have Taken
26,735 Prisoners in Fight
ing on Somme Front
Since July First.
HAVE ADVANTAGE OVER
ENEMY'S AIR FORCES
Russian Center Operating in
Galicia Have Crossed Zlota
Lipa River Battle
on in Bulgaria.
Iutra.itinal Nov Service:
LONDON. Oct. i. between July
1. the opening -f the Somme l)attle,
and the tjid of September, the
Uritish forces on that front took 2J.
prisoners. They ei. traced in that
j,eriod ?S (Jvn.ian divisions and
lorced 23 of Uiem to withdraw from
the battle exhausted or shattered.
These results were announced in a
mmroary of the Somme operations
Ly Sir Douzla-s Haig today, given
t ut by the ofiicial pre&s bureau.
The Germans have been thrown
lifick on their fourth line l-.nse?.
The I.ritlsh commander piDLs out
tljat the actunl result- of the battle
niiust not be w- inured by the num
ber 01 prloiifra and positions taken.
Hut by the effect upon the strength
of the Teutons in numbers, material
and in morale. He emphasizes the
heavy German losses in vain coun
ter attacks:
Our aircraft have shown in the
highest dejrree the spirit of offensive.
They havo patrolled regularly fur
behind the lines ai:d have fought
many battles in the air with hoslil
juc's. and many with enemy
machines or t'ae trround.
for every enemy machine which
t-uccccd-s in croin our front, it is
kafc to say that -00 British ma
thincs crosA the enemy's front.
A captured German corps report
described our aeroplanes a sur
prisingly bold and their work has
been conspicuous for skill and judg
ment as fcr its darinp.
The village of t'aucourt-l'Abbaye.
fouth of r.apaume. today was clear-
d by the Iiritish of the la-t remain
ing defenders, the L.ondon war of
!:ce announced. Violent artillery
iuris are rairin south of the An ere.
Ilain is hampering the operations
today.
Infermtlonal News S4"rri e:
IKTIl("MnAI. Oct. 4. The ren
ter of the Kussdan armies in Ga
licia under (ten. Stcherbatcheff.
has crossed the Zlota Upa river.
The important railway rty of
Hrzezany. 4 miles southeast of
J.emtrp. Is threatened with envel
opmenL Its suburbs are under bom
bardment. IntTnatloriai News srr':
i'AlilS. IVt. . The French
fc-rces nort! of the Sonuue scored
another important success to the
north of ComMes torjay. Cooperat
ing with the Uritish in the lrive
:ff:unt Hapaume, they captured an
imporlant (Jfrm?n communication
trench at Mona! nd in the S.
Pierrt ';iast wood, cipturiiicr -00
prisoncrj. The Miceess was an
nouncel by the war ortne today.
LOMKN. Oct. 4. A iolent
r-attle Is r:irtncr a!l alonsr the .f.r-
::un bi'iilc lir.e in Koumania, from
the rf-i.n west cf tr.e f.rtres of
Turtukai, Muth of the Danube, to
the S'uick se-v. Upo;i its outcome
rfppnfls. in the- opinion of military
itics here, ;he success or failure
of th v."hd Teuton Balkan cam-.p-iitm.
All roport.s fron: th Roumanian
front areo that the initiative is in
the han'.s of the Huo-Kournaman
forft'. I'.erlin claims tliat up to
late yc-teidiy the attackers had
failed to p;erce .Mackensen front
in th? I.ot.rudja. Interest centers
ohiet!y urwin the b itt!e between the
Roumanian who have crossed to
trre .(uthern bank of the Danube,
south of Itr.ch.iret. arnl th lul
vanan forces protectir.K the Vardar
raüway. leitest rv ports frxm Teu
tonic and Hubr i.m sources statu
that "measures hae been taken to
jittack the.- forces." I'.itter ht;ht
ii.u is ur.oüicially reported to be well
under way.
No official word h.v been r
r.id up to ea-l today since the
l.-r!m report that A;ri.in tnoni
trs and dtsxroyed the bridges over
the lrinule behiml the Koiiinanians.
Military obs-rers here concede that
th- pciti"n of the c rivirii: forces is
p"rilo Js unless they are in surücien
strt-r.irth to hold their hastily en
tr n hed lines until reinforcements
arrive
One of the Scenes in S' Joseph County's Pageant
r-9 v .. - III II
7L ,ir
if-
. , r "s. i.-
Hj J
Tills view of Alexis Coquillard and his caMiw shows the fiftli epl-oxle of the pasrant. reprrscntins:
the rstablUlnnent of 11m lir.t traUln xa at Soutli IUmkI. 11k role of Alexis GMiiiIlanl, (at the extreme
left) is ciiacttnl by Alexis Coquillarri, jr., of South Ueiul, ranl nephew of tlK? tirst trader.
FOUR MORE HELD
FOR BLACKMAIL
Intern.'Ui'vnal News Se-rric-e :
CHICAGO. Oct. 4. Pour men
known to the police as confidence
men and believed to be members of
tho so-called "million dollar black
mail syndicate," were arrested early
today in a cafo by detectives who
have been assisting Hinton G. Cla-
bauh, head of the local bureau of
investigation of the department of
justice.
The prisoners pave their nimes as
Edward "Leatherhead" Jenkins,
James Martin of New York city;
John Marry, formerly of Indon,
and Arthur Adams of Boston. Cla
bauh will question them and mes
sages concerning them are being
sent out to other cities.
ONLY A FEW ARE LEFT
Ilciinion at Importe is Attrndeii by
SS Veterans.
International News Service:
lAPORTIC, Ind., Oct. 4. Thirty
eight men all that remain of sev
eral hundred who answered Abra
ham Lincoln's call for volunteers I
today met here in the annual re
union of the 12th Indiana cavalry,
a regiment that won special dis
tinction at the battle of Stone
river. There is little routine bus
iness before them except the elec
tion of regimental officers.
COTTON IS IN DEMAND
Inures Show IAports Have In-
T"rnscxl Iurlnc Past Ycr.
Internnt ial New Si-r r--o ;
WASHINGTON, Oct. 4. Not
withstanding the semi-failure of the
cotton crop, exports of cotton have
increased approximately T.O per cent
as compared to the amount of last
year.
The department of commerce an
nounced today that since Aug. 1 cot
ton exports amounted to 90r,,"ij5
bales, as compared with 6 3 3.119
bales for the entire year of 1913.
Greece in Hard
way ror runas
1
Intcrnntional Newt Service:
LONDON. Oct. 4. Dispatches
reaching Ixindon today from Athens.
indicated that several supporters of
M. Venizelos. former premier, will
be gnen places in the new cabinet
now being formed. This, it is de
clared, is being done to give the
r.ew ministry a national character.
Premier Kalogoropoulos and For
eign Minister Carapano are the
only memters of the cabinet to re
tain their posts.
The financial situation is becoirdrg
alarming in Greece. The Septem
ber expenditures amounted to rr.oro
j treasury contains less than Jit0,-LjG.
. !
.? --
" . i
MJ I " I Ii. II i M. II i im I in., in J i I ... I III .... IvO
. ' '.vvlT '-' --.!:. - . :. . .. ; . ., r ..; . ' -;
Wt---rr$ - ..-. .v...7:..-. -
-. ZX M.'y. . (. ,
i'ir
t-.f f
Four Are Injured
In Strike Riots
International News Service:
NEW YORK, Oct. 4. Renewed
outbreaks of rioting marked the
traction strike today.
lioof lurkers sympathizing with
striking carmen injured four per
sons in attacks on elevated trains.
Windows were shattered by stones
and passengers hit by missiles and
flying glass. Surface cars also were
attacked and many windows were
smashed.
A bi demonstration la being ar
ranged by families cf striking trac
tion employes to aid the rr.en to win
their walkout. Wives, mothers,
daughters, sisters and sweethearts
of- the strikers will participate.
"Mother" Jones, prominent in many
strikes throughout the country, will
be a leading" figure in the move
ment. A meeting will be held to
morrow at which plans will be ar
ranged for a mammoth parade early
next week. It is expected at least
3,000 women will march through
the streets.
DYESTUFF REPORT IS
NOT TO BE HELD UP
Americans Connected Willi Clcrman
Monopoly Kilter lrotest Over
Findings.
International News Nerv ice:
WASHINGTON, Oct. 4. The
census of the American dye stuff
industry, recently completed by the
bureau of forei-n and domestic
commerce, will not b" entirely sup
pressed despite protects by Ameri
can importers connected with the
German chemical monopoly, iSoc'y
of Commerce Redfield announced
today. The census report has been
temporarily withdrawn from publi
cation pending investigation of com
plaints averting that the publica
tion of details of the German
American importing business would
be a violation of business confi
dence. It is probable that some of the
details would be eliminated before
the report is made public. American
textile concerns and dye stuff man
ufacturers, however, are besieging
the department to make the census
public in its original form.
TEST is cause of death
ix. T. IVck CUcs Ufc in th Interest
of Science.
!
'International Nens ScrvKr:
j HATONXE. N". J.. 0 t. 4. N. T.
Feck, expert chemit of the Texas
J Oil Co.. gave up his life today in
! the interest of science. While a
' dozen officials of the company
watched the expert making a test
with barian nitrate. Teck ignited the
' chemical. A terrific explosion fo'
: lowed. Peel; was thrown to the
floor, his clothing caught fire and
his face was burned beyond recog
nition. The officials temporarily
j blinded by the tlah. stood by power
tless to aid him. Peck was SO years
old and came her from liliaoi-J.
' ' - j 1
-. u A 1
1
s -
T-
T0BR1MG BATTLE
Intern.ition.il News Service:
NEW YOR1C, Oct. 4. "Mother"
Jones of world-wide fame as the
friend of the worker, declared to
day that when the eight-hour law
comes up in the supreme court
there will be the greatest industrial
revolution the world has ever see-n.
'Capital." she said. "will spend
millions of dollars to prevent the
eight-hour law from becoming ef
fective. Ivibor likewise will put up
its greatest fight in defense of it.
"Never before has Wall st. made
so much money and capital is going
to spend its last cent to defeat the
eight-hour law.'
"Mother" Jones vigorously con
demned the sympathetic strike call
ed here to aid the striking carmen.
"The miners never asked for a
sympathetic strike, nor did they
give their employers mx months
notice so that they could gather
their forces and bring in strike
breakers," she declared.
PRESIDENT WILL WAIT
Time Ls Not IÜie to Start Move to
llring About l'eaeo.
International News Service:
WASHINGTON, Oct. 4. Admin
istration officials said today that the
suggestion of Viscount Bryce of
Dechmoat. former ambassador at
Washington, that America must lead
toward peace, will not result in any
new move at this time by Pres't
Wilson. The latter still is con
vinced, men who know him be:t say,
that any move now would be mis-
understood.
YKGGJIIIN GITT 900.
MARION. Ind Oct. 4. Yeggmen
blew the safe of the Standard Oil
Co. 's otfice in North Marion early
thia morning, securing $200. All
police departments in central Indi
una were notified.
HOUR il
Centennial Celebration Program
TONifiirr.
7::tO I. L Wonderful historical pageant Jn Sprinbrook park.
THt'KSDAY. (KT. 5.
7:00 A. M. Automobile tours ocr ctxnl nuls f nortlieni Indiana and
southern Michipin leave Oliver hotel.
9:00 A. L-L2:00 noon Viitin high ajvl grammar scIkvoN to ob
senc work of student. Open to all citizens and visitors.
9:00 A. -M.-ö:0O I. M. Inhibition of liitorlcal object. Northern In
diana Historical Kxlety'.s rooms, old court liou.se, 112-11 1 S. La
fayette M-
10:00 A. M.-2:00 P. M. Ite-eition in Indiana centennial headquarters,
CluvmbtT of Ccruracrce. -1C-21S W. Colfax av.. for pioneers of St.
Joseph county lining in county ami pioneers of county retununl for
centennial celebration. This rcivpUoii is open only to pioneers.
1 :?,0 P. M.P Lammth industrial provisional pageant demonstrating
development of manufacturing, agriculture ami mercantile lui
nes In St. Joseph ounty. The lino of inarch will be as follows:
l-'onrn at Wayne and Taylor Ms hesuleU north, proceed on Tay
lor st. north to Washington av., east to I fa yet to st-. soutli to
Wayne St.. enM to Main st.. nort a to Ln.-r.illc av.. -at and disband.
:0) 1. t. I lam! concert by Pullman baiul followed by national
(Larw -i ng on reviewing stand at east entrance to court bonc.
:U0 P. K Iv-t prex'iitation of great liistori"siJ pageant In spring
bnok urk, which villi end tbe Indiana centennial obervauoe.
M PREMIER
APPOINTED Bl
Field Marshal Terauchi Said
to Favor More Aggressive
Policy Backed by
Military Party.
CAPITAL INTERESTED
IN JAPAN SITUATION
Will Watch Doings in East
For California Immigra
tion Laws Are Likely to
Result in Friction.
International Nevs Service:
TOKIO. Oct. 4. riell Marshal
Terauchi has been appointed by the
emperor to succeed Count Okuma
a-s premier of Japan.
In appointing Field Marshall Ter
auchi premier, the Japanese em
peror passed oer Count Okuma's
recommendation that Viscount
Takaakai Kato succeed here. Ter
auchi is governor-general of Korea
and hwvs been regarded by powerful
influences in Japan as the logical
successor to Okuma. He is known
to have a great influence with the
Japanese military party and is said
to favor a more aggressive policy by
Japanese both on the Chinese ques
tion and the California immigration
law problem, lie formerly was min
ister of war.
International News Nervice:
WASHINGTON. Oct. 4. The
downfall of the Japanese cabinet
following the resignation of Count
Okuma as premier, is believed here
t' foreshadow a new and probably
stronger foreign policy by the Jap
anese government.
The retirement of Count (Okuma,
officials say. will have no effect on
the Japanese policy in securing
control of China. This general policy
has the support of all classes of
Japanese politcians.
General opposition to all of the
policies of Count Okuma, rather
than dissatisfaction with any of
them, is said in state department
circles today, to be the real reason
for his widespread criticism of his
handing of national affairs and a
combination recently formed in the
upper house promised the doom of
any and all legislation fathered by
the present cabinet.
Officials here will watch the prog
ress of events in Japan very care
fully. The situation is such that it
will require the most careful handl
ing to prevent serious friction over
the California land laws, which are
under a constant fire of criticism
from Japanese newspapers.
GIANTS' PLAYING NOT
TO BE INVESTIGATED
International News Service:
NEW YORK, Oct. 4. In the face
of demands from all sides that a
complete airing be given the scan
dal provoked yesterday when John
McGraw. manager of the Giants,
left the field in Brooklyn declaring
his team was not playing right
against the Dodgers. Pres't John K.
Tener. of the National league, de
clared today that no formal investi
gation would be made.
"Mt-Graw probably lost his tem
per and said things he did not
mean." Pres't Tener said. "I re
gard the incident as closed and I
don't believe that Mr. Johnson or
Mr. Herrmann, the other members
of the national commission, will
want to take it up."
Tomorrow's Entertainment of the
Hughes Feminine Aristocracy and
the Financial Powers BacJi of It
SOUTH BEND will be the early morning fliest tomorrow of cer
tain bits of cream from New York's "smart set of the fem
inite variety, out campaigning for Charles Evans Hughes. Trav
eling in the disguise of the woman's committee of the Hughes Na
tional alliance they are coming west to tell the women here how
their husbands and sons and brothers ought to vote for Hughes,
presumably because he is for woman suffrage, but analyze the
backers of" the trip, and the shining lights in the foreground' of the
travelers, and there may be a different motive.
In the light of such analysis, furthermore, it is not necessary for
the more "common herd'r of local womandom to take the visit
seriously unless the glamor of wealth, and the tinsel of Wall
street is" to them irresistible.
Take Mrs. Phoebe Hearst mother of William Randolph Hearst,
and owner cf large Mexican mining interests, which agitate her
along with her son William's ranch.
Is she for Hughes because Hughes, when forced to t lie wall
came out for national woman suffrage, or is she for him because
he has assured Wall street interests that if elected that he will send
your sons, your brothers, and perhaps your husbands into Mexico,
to fight for their cussedness.
There, too, is Mrs. Mary Haniman Rumsey. daughter of the
late E. H. Harriman, who inherited millions in Mexican estates and
railroad interests from her illustrious father, chief among the pro
curers of special privileges from the Diaz regime, laying the very
groundwork of present Mexican troubles. What is her interest h
Mr. Hughes?
And then Mrs. Robert Bacon, whose husband was transferred
from the "House of Motrin" to become Roosevelt's secretary of
state, and was later made ambassador to France and whose in
terests in the "House of Morgan" made him a party to the Morgan
Mexican squelchings, known to mount into millions.
Mrs. Harry Payne Whitney, Mrs. Daniel Guggenheim. Mrs. W.
H. Crocker, Miss Maude Wetmore. all of them wives or daughters,
of New York and Providence millionaires, say nothing of Mrs., E.
T. Stotesbury, wife of a Philadelphia partner of J. P. Morgan &
Co., and Mrs. O. H. Havemeyer, wife of the sugar trust and Stand
ard Oil magnate whose Mexican interests are legend.
Mrs. Bernard H. Ridder, wife of one of the publishers of the
New York Staats-Zeitung, leader in the pro-German anti-American
propaganda against Pres't Wilson, and Mrs. Alice Roosevelt Long
worth, whose husband has large inherited interests bevond the Rio
Grande, and whose illustrious father is with the Ridders in their
anti-American, though not pro-German propaganda these are al
so parties to the trip.
And now who is to receive them in Soutli Bend ?
The common people? The wives of the men who work; from
whose homes come the men and boys who do the fighting when
the nation is in distress?
Make a note of the list. South Bend and Mishawaka's "smart
set" with just a few ruffles on the edge, is to constitute the re
ception committee; to dine with them at breakfast in their best.
Follow the list:
Mrs. J. D. Oliver, chairman (not acting, but pushed into the
limelight because of her wealth), and then Mrs. E. R. Erskine, Mrs.
M. V. Beiger, Mrs. A. L. Hubtrard, Mrs. F. A. Bryan, Mrs. C A.
Carlisle, Mrs. Milburn Studebaker, Mrs. E. L. Kuhns, Mrs. George
Cutter, Mrs. Gilbert A. Elliott, Mrs. John G. Yeagley, and, Mrs.
Rodney Talcott, scarce a one of whomwere ever heard to favor
woman suffrage before in their lives.
But the local ladies tell us they are not receiving the visiting
ladies on account of any Hughes "suffrage propaganda. We pre
sume not; in fact, we are certain not. We insinuated as much
at the outset. That is merely the pretense under which the
woman's committee of the Hughes National alliance is traveling.
But if it is not on account of Mr. Hughes' conversion to national
suffrage, then what is it?
Remember you are in politics now, ladies, and in that capacity
must count yourselves the same as men, subject to the same ex
posures of your position and interests.
Are vou'as mothers, or sisters, or daughters, entertaining these
campaigners for Mr. Hughes because the Wilson administration
put an anti-child labor law through congress?
Are you interested because the Clayton anti-trust law passed by
a democratic congress with Pres't Wilson's sanction, put a brake
on United States supreme court peonage, by denying that labor is
a commodity and wage-slavery an outlaw?
Are you angry in behalf of these ladies, because Pres't Wilson
and congress passed the regional bank law, and farm loans act.
snatching the control of the money of the country from the Wall
street husbands, etc., of those ladies, and put a stop to their panic
producing power?
Are you spreading yourselves to entertain these Wall street
emissaries, because Pres't Wilson has not plunged us into war with
Germany and with Mexico, thus to increase the demand for war
munitions and equipment, and rescue Wall street stolen property
beyond the Rio Grande, from the rightful owners who are Striv
ing to recover it?
How many of you, of the local committee, have sons, or
brothers, or perhaps husbands, whom you are readv to send to
Mexico or to Europe, to fight the battles of these Wall street land,
mine, oil well, and dividend grabbers?
How many of you sent your husbands, and brothers, and sons
to the Mexican border, when they were called some weeks ago?
Or is it that the ladies are coming to us with some of that Wall
street money to offer it to us to vou two to one, to be bet on
the election?
If so, well girls, you can put us down for a piece of that money
say uiniv cents, or someinmg
RED CROSS SHIP LOST?
Wlrelcw I Vom Boulogne Tells of
ILsater to Steamer.
latrrnatiocal New S'ttI-p:
PARIS. Oct. 1. A t ireless dis
patch from Uoulogne to the Figaro
reports that a British Hed Cross
steamer haa been blown up. IPtail9
of the disaster are still lacking.
UV. SCOTT IL.I
WASHINGTON-. Oct. 4. Gen.
Hush 1. .coU, chief of i-taff of the
army, today is eonf.ned in Walter
Keed army hospital hre. sufTenn
from an attack of indirection. Hi
condition is not regarded as herious.
Gen. üeott is 6 3 years old.
01 mat sort, u is our limit.
Railroad Deals
Must be Told
International Nt-wa J-rvlce :
WASHINGTON, Oct. 4. Tie eu-
vreme court of the District of Co
lumbia this afternoon ordered Mil
ton Smith, president of the LouLs
viile and Nashville li-aJlroad Co., to
comply with demands by the inter
state commerce commission that h
reveal the railroad's entire relation
ship sith political leaders in tite
thrown which, tLe rai!roJ ruiu.
PAGEANT II
BE PRESENTE
JBAIH TONIG
History of St. Joseph County,
as Told at Springbrook
Park Proves a De
cided Success.
BAND CONCERT IS ONE
OF TODAY'S FEATURES
Music Rendered by Pullman
Organization is Appreci
atedMany Visitors
Are in the City.
Another pre.it crowd cre.Mri to
day's procrani of So'.th r.et.d cen
tennial celebration. Ii;trriir'iK'.n.
trains :nj automobiles rroupbt
rnanv people into the city l'iim; th
mojnins and the roster of visitors
was increased to the hundreds y
noon.
At o'clock this afternoon th
floral automobile parade was start
r,re?entin!T me of the most attract
ive scenes thus far witnessed in the
processional paqcant line. Score
of cars, payly and attractively doc
crated were in Jin5 and the pro
cession surpassed anything of its
nature ever arranged in northern
Indiana, according to those who are
in close touch with such events. Au
tomobile owners have been planning
for weeks for the parade and the
decorations and novel features ex
hibited in the procession indicated
the ecorts that had been put f-rth
to make the eyent a success.
Members of the Indiana society
of Chicago journeyc to Fouth Ir d
today to iew the celebration. The
members of the society who were
Included in the party were John T.
McCatcheon. Ocorje Ac. Meredith
Nicholson and several others of ra
tional prominence.
Crtmtl at Dciii!ion.
There was a lark'e crowd at th
corner of Colfax av. ar.d N Taylor
it. this morr.in'-' to see and par
ticipate in the dedication of the
memorial tablet in honor of th laf
f-Vhuyler Colfax, vice president of
the T'nited States, founder of the
Itchckah decree of the I. . O. F.,
and a Sc.uth Bend citizen. Severn'
I'addnKses were dtliervd by dig
nitaries of the Kcbckah lude der
ln;r the ceremonies whieh started at
10 o'clock, while the services of ded
ication proved impressive. Previou?
to the ceremonies the members oi
the local P.ebek ah lodpe partici
pated in a parade thresh the busi
ness district and to the cite of Mr.
Colfax's old home -here the ser
vices were conducted.
Following the automobile parad
this afternoon there will be a con
cert by the Pullman land at thf
court house and a portrayal of dif
ferent national dances. This feature
proed attractive Tuesday afternoon
and an even larger crowd nf spec
tators was promised for today. Th
concert was scheduled to -tart at i
o'clock.
Pageant Airain Tonight.
There will he ar.oth'.r jre-er.tv
tion of thf historical p.icfant at
?pri net Took park
successful manner
tor.jKht. Thf
in which the
pageant moved off Tuesday r.ish'
and the excellent impression kft
with the j-pectators indicated an
f-ven larscr attend mp tonight. The
historical pageant whih included .a
cast and chorus of mor than ",C
people, relates the principal e.rrt
in the county's history during thf
rast 2"0 years.
At o o'clock this afternoon the
hi"h school alumni tea was j-ch.;.
uled at the hitrh school auditorium.
Flahorate plans had ho en mad.- for
the affair and a !arre attendan-.-e ot
former hi-rh sehool students v. ;l.s px-
pected. Th re are many f-m r
hU'h school pupil both as resi lent;j
find -. isitors in the city, and all had
heen invited to the affair. The Vj
i.- in the nature of a. ff-r!? f c! u-;-teunions
where old classmates may
meet aain after years of .vjnra
tion. The streets of the : wer?
crowded during the morrin:, and
at noon many more folks had ar
rived to witness the afternoon pr'
sram. Although the restaurants .U; 1
hotels did a capacity business Tues
day, they were almost o er r.dn.e I
today by the reat number ef out-of-towrj
folks who were recking 'at
in accommodations, thus indicat
ing the number cf victors in the
city.
Clun I'nc IuaIc.
As is natural there hae ht--n
everal amutir.j? incidents irt con
nection with the centennial, thn
j.rm ipa! one hcir. the d::h- uity en-
(CONTINLi:i ON PAGi: TllIUJU)
