' :::
DAILY EVEItlliG EDITIOH
to A!vi:imsKns
Tlw t-ltiHt Ort'tfonluii hat (tit luritt buim
fid and KUuumletHl paid rtivulHtlttn of any
putwr lu Oregon, hh! of Portland tuid by
far the tarfcwtl circulation iu iVutilKon of
any newspaper.
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER
VOL. 28
, . . .. .. '-" --- i a r4 1F n- "bw. ' "j-"'-uU1,..m..l M
-- -- .
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, W' fff
DAILY EVEItlliG EDITIOri
WFUHFH
Tonight and Thurd.u : nr. heavv
frost t'night.
FsTFIlDAVs W t:TIII It l U
Maximum temperature. 6i, mum
mnm. 3',. rainfall. trace; wind west,
light; weather, partly cloudy.
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
NO. 89.11
ROUMANIAN INVADERS MEE?' WITH DEFEAT
GREAT MIS
GREET 11
ALONG ROUTE
President is Enthusiastically
Cheered by Throngs Who
Line Way to Omaha.
REFUSES TO MAKE SPEECHES
Ainxrn on Rear platform of Private
Oar Waving Hand Tulb Corre
spondent lIoKpltalltjr Makes His
Ikmrt MuhI Warm.
MAKH1LON, Ohio. Oct. 4. Aboard
the presidents' special Great crowds
cheered President Wilson en route to
imnihu lie refused to muke any
speeches. Twenty thousand swarmoil
around IiIh private cur at Salem, Al
liance and Canton. Wilson appeared
on the rear platform, waving his
hand He said: "This hospitality
makes my heart most warm."
BLEWETT PLANT
HAS DONE WELL
Encouraged hy the success ot
this ycar'i business, the Ulewett
Harvester Co. In now at work
enlarging ltd plant on West
t'ourt street. Work underway
at present Includes the con
struction of a lumber shed 30 by
100 feet In dimension. This
shed will be used for the pur
pose of housing- material and
will relieve the congestion tn
the company's main building
Though final plans have no',
yet been worked out It la the In
tention of the company to erect
a foundry building this fal:.
Plans for this and for the output
for next year will be discussed
at a trustees' meeting to be held
shortly.
The company Is now starting
work on the 1917 output, the
blackimlthlng work being all
that Is under way at present.
The plant la atso doing some
custom work.
The annual meeting of the
stockholders or the company
will be hold Tuesday, October
10.
PROSPERITY RECORDS III QRE60
11
BROKEN BETWEEN JUNE AND SEPT.
Statement of Oregon State and National Banks and Trust
Companies Shows a Sixty-One Million Dollar Increase Oyer
September, 1915.
i
TOTAL DEPOSITS ARE ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY MILLION;
"JACK THE CUPPER" AT WORK ON LONG ISLANO
SALEM, Oct. 4. State Bank Su
perintendent Sargent made public the
combined statement of the Oregon
State and National banks and trust
companies, showing that prosperity
records Were broken between June
It and September 12.
The resources of September 12
showed an eleven million dollar in
crease over June and a hundred and
sixty one million dollar increase over
September 12. 115.
The total deposits were a hundred
and forty million dollars September
12, a seventeen million dollar increase
ver September 2, 1915, and a ten
million dollar increase over June 13.
this year.
Sargent said; "This statement re
veals the most satisfactory condition
throughout the state and a much
stronger commercial activity."
WOMEN'S SPECIAL
.REACHES CHICAGO
CLiCAGti, (t. 4. The women
Hughes supporters arrived from all
paru of the country to Join tilt
Hughes women's special train arriving
tomorrow. Mr... Thurston Hallard of
Louisville, Mrs. Huymond Hoblns ol
Chicago, Mrs. Noble ITentlss ot To
peka; Or. Il.iichine tvepheiut Walker;
Mlsa Harriet vlttum end numerous
other leaders have arrived. The train
leaves Chicago early Friday and vlsiU
Hock Island, Cedar Itaplds, Waterloo,
Minneapolis. St. Paul mid then the
Pacific coast via Montana and
akot.'if.
the
BY Hill SHAKING
NKW YORK, i H I
b aders railed tin
hand shaking at Ik
''lull last night a "
4.-- Republican
Tuft-Roosevelt
i- 1'iilou league
visible sign of a
Parly completely reunited." Witness
s denied the affair was coldly form
al. One declared Tuft and Roosevelt
loKcd in the elevator. Itonsevell rc
marked "Your speech was tine an 1
just hit the point."
Chairman Wilcox of tin- republican
rational committee said the meeting
idiow.d the country the republican
party .'Manila solidly together.
DESTROYED BY FIRE
WHEAT AGAIN
CATCHES FIRE
Men Who lur hun-d Salvage from
llcrnt Grain WarclMMMc ta at
Adams, stand to Lose Heavily.
'. Adams' lttwidcncc and lut tx-
U-iUH Are Total l.- from lUae ot as
Mysterious Origin.
I East Oregonlan Special.)
UEKMISTON, Ore., Oct. 4. Fire
which broke out yesterday morning
at two o'clock, completely de-troyeu
the residence of F. Adams on at
Those who purchased the salvage
from the recent big grain warehouse
fire at Adams bid fair to lose heavily
result of the hard wind storm
"ABSOLUTELY FALSE"
Uefacto Officials Fhny That Carran
za Threatened to Recall Peace
t'omrnlsslonrrs I nlet Troops arc
Withdrawn,
few weeks ago. The wind fan-
was but little damaged fty the original
fire is now worthless entirely or bad
I? smoked and scorched.
Main street. The building was a sol- The salvaged grain was sold by the
id mass offlames before an alarm was insurance companies to H W. Collllns
turned In, and the building and its of this city for approximately 173,
contents were a total lo.-s. The bli.xe OuO but it Is understood he was rep-
was of mysterious origin and had it ientlng Portland parties.
I MEXICO CITY, Oct. 4. High offi-
' Piulii rlonlarl that Co rro r- A .-wn n rA nA
ned the fire that was still in the j Perlng.. lrnmedlate withdrawal,
wheat and it has been burning ever They caUe(1 the America prpg8 re.
ouiic jx kicui ui-.ii (ji uie wneiu inui
ports "Absolutely false." They also
denied that Carranza threatened to
recall Mexican peace commissioners
tfnless the troops were immediately
withdrawn. '
Colonel Juan Parragnn, Carranza's
chief of staff, accompanied Arredon-
do to Washington. It is renprnllv rw.
VI a A tha ....
ucvea mat Barragan intends to con-
not been tor the warning given by the fire not been fanned up again the fPr mi, min,, i.m
small pet terrier oi tne iamny, mib. uujms uum aouunuss nave come out over border patrol arrangements.
Adams and baby, who were the only of their bargain with a good margin .
occupants of the house at the time, ! of profit.
Mr. Adams being away in the wheat The original file was put out ap
fields. would undoubtedly have lost parent ly by water and there was llt
their lives. tie Indication of much fire left in the
The loss on the building is covered immense pile of wheat until the
by insurance.
GERMAN U-BOATS
HAVE DESTROYED
49 ENEMY CRAFT
heavy wind storm came. Ever since
the wheat has been smoldering and
heavy smoke is still rising from it.
Men have been engaged in result
ing the salvage for several weeks and
a good many thousand sacks have al
ready been hauled away. Most of It,
however, will not be good for any
thing but chicken, snefp and hog
feed. It Is said.
COSTLY CHRISTMAS
LATEST PREDICTION
Price of Trees Goes Sky-ltooketing
Itaisln shortage Is Imminent, Wal.
nuts and Almonds Scarce, sugar
High.
nne
KKIU.IN. Oct. 4. (Via Sayvillo.
Is announced that Herman subma-
prrating in the North sea and
I'OltTliAND, Oct. 1 The hish
cost of Chris. mas is predicted. Deal
ers said It would be the costliest
j Sititnif'e Siisitendi-d On Hoys.
j The four small boys who purloined Christmas In the nation's historv. The
I'liglish channel, be ween September some oranges and peanuts from the price of Christmas trees is sky-rocket,
in inui destroyed 11 fishing Ccorge Hemott store recently were jug. The Greek raisin market Is clos-
sinaih.-i. lour Hclgi.in lighters. 2, nsn,""1" m,"5 umcn unmr coionj eu, t'alllornia dealers have formed u
steamers and seen other hostile J"ne ji.iimi uy juvenile tiuicer jonn combine and a raisin shortage is im
boats.
AUTHOR OF SHIPPING LAW
EXPLAINS ITS WORKINGS
-
i 4 V- 1 ' ! Is
i ; n-!iitM i
;J :. ' i
j I ' ;
jfi ' l
iPTIi' . t
ALLIES RANKS
DRIVEN BACK
ACROSS DANUBE
PORTCHKSTER, L. I., Oct. 4
The police have found absolutely no
clue to the Identity of the person who
is cutting off the hair of the young
women of this place. Twice within
a week has the outrage occurred.
The latest victim is Miss Isabelle
Knowlton, of Bryan's Hill. While
asleep, two long braids were clipped
from her head.
The girl is seventeen. Before re
tiring, she arranged her hair in long
plaits. When she awoke she found
her hair had been shorn close to the
head.
The screen had been removed from
a window In her room and was lying
on the floor. The "clipper" evident
ly entered her room from the porch
roof.
At a firemen's carnival, last week
Miss Valerie Melko, sixteen, had her
long hair cut off.
CAMPAIGN STARTS OCTOBER 13
COMMERCIAL CLUB IS IN RING
FIVE TEAMS SEEK NEW MEMBERS
t ly Hon Joshua W. Alexander, of to supervise and care for our water-
borne commerce.
A shipping board of five members
Is created, not more than three of
whom shall belong to the same poli
tical party, to he appointed by the
president and by and with the advise
and consent of the senate. The first
commissioners shall continue In office
for terms of two. three, four, five and
six yours. Their successors shall con
tinue In office for terms of six years.
No member of the board shall he in
the employ of, or hold any official
relation to nny common carrier by
water, n be pernnlearlly Interested
therein.
The board, with the approval of thn
president. Is authorized to hove con
structed, nnd equipped In Amerlcnn
shipyards nnd navy yards or else
where, giving preference, other things
beini eipial, to domestic shipyards,
or to purchase, lease, or charter ves
vels suitable, ns far as the romnier.
rial requirements of the marine trade
r.f the I'nited Slates may permit, for
life as naval auxiliaries or army trans,
ports, or for other naval or military
purpose. Limitations nre plnced on
the vessels that may be purchased.
Kor Instance, vessels engaged In the
foreign or domestic trade of the Uni
ted States; and vessels under the flag
of foreign countries engnged In war
may not be purchased, leased or char
tered. The president mav transfer to
the board such vessels belonging to
Judge Ji.ii
llailey and they were there given minent Walnuts jumped five cents! Krlli'l'. October 13. will be Mem
stern lectures and some good advice per pound and may be unob'ainable h 't'hip Day in the Pendleton Cora
by those officials. Vpon their prom- by December. Almonds are scarce, loercial Cub and for a few hours on
, ' w " '' ciiiisimas canuica nil reooru-nreaK- lhilt memorable occasion it mav
suspended and they were permitted inK prices on account of sugar costs. t , , .
to go at liberty as long us their be- Crauln-rrie- are higher well for local businessmen who
havior is ..l.,vo n.n,n,.i I oeiong to me .irganization
I i Lake to tne deep, tall timber, other-: i;nn k. I l;. Hill. w.
1 ISolln Is Mini, wise they will have conferred upon K'ce. J. K. Robinson
I rPA f fW)JVFV PUT The will of the late J. A. Holm o(!tllel" tn hl,n"r uf belonging to the dy.
IN DISORDER
Mighty Three Day Battle Re
sults in Complete Rout of
Enemy-Army Threatened.
BRITISH TAKE EAUCOURT
Last, of Germans Driven from How
After Heavy i-fcfht Artillery Cho
rus Is Kept I'p on gamme Front Al
though Rains Retard Advance.
BKIUJM, Oct. 4. It is announced
tlie Germans, Bnlgartana and Turks
defeated the Roumanian invaders ol
Bulgaria m a three day battle near
Rjasovo. Tne Roumanians nastily
fled back across the Danube. The
Teutons crushed their flanks and
threatened to envelope the whole
army. '
The Ron man ana recroueed the riv
er under the heaviest (Ire from land
batteries and Bulgarian monitors.
They fled In small transports, arrow,
the shattered pontoons.
The Roumanian commanders evi
dently reared a repetition of the To.
traldn disaster, where twenty-three
thousand surrendered after hundred ;'
were drowned attempting to swtm the
Danube. j
The Gernuut-Ituigarian eooa-ciiug r
movement has completely smashed
the Roumauiao!' firs Invasion ol
Bulgaria. The allied press widely
heralded the invasion as a great cam
paign to drive Mackcnsen from Do
brodja. It is announced the Russians suffer
ed enormous losses renewing ths at
tacks west of Lutrk. Thousands ot
dead Russians covered the ground
before the German trenches. Every
attack was heavily repulsed. Rou
manian attacks in the Gorgeny valley
in Transylvania were repulsed. Tha
Roumanians gained ground west or
Parajd.
The Germans and Bulgarians re
treated to New Macedonian positions
between lake Presba and the Nizs
plains. The British occupied ra
koj.
be . .,
Ul'l
Mo., Chairman House Merchan;
Marine Committee.)
The shipping act is one of the great
achievements of the present admlnis.
'ration and of the sixty-fourth con-
tross.
The effort lo enact legislation to
provide larger facilities for our rap
if sly growing foreign commerce began
(don after the beginning of the war
in Kurope. If the administration ship
parentis" bill had been enncted into
law in September or October, 1914, it
vs-ntiirt have been possible to add 100
vtssds of 10,000 gross tons to our
American merchant mnrine for th"
overseas trade. Those vessels would
have cost then not more than forty
to fifty million dollars; now they
would be worth more than one hun
dred millions of dollars, nnd the bene
fits to our foreign commerce would
Imve been Incalculable In the Immense
saving 1n foreign rates on wheat, cot
ton, and all other commodities enter
ing into our export trade nnd upon
which the ocean freight rates have ad
vanced from fioo to 1000 per cent In
the last two years. That hilt wns flll
rnsteredj to death in the Fnlteil States
n niite by the republicans with the aid
of a few democrats.
The shipping net Is framed alotvt
much brnnder lines. The ship pur
chase bill wns an emergency measure;
the shinning act is intended to be
come a permanent measure, nnd whl!i
LONDON. Oct 4 Sir Douglaa
Haig repor.ed the British have com
PX'teiy occupied Eaucuuit L'Abbaie.
tile Germans h-iying surrendered the
last hoUStS,
The allies have widened the Uer-
be confined to the one day. Friday. man ln "feacti to twnly-fiv miles
I'ctol.ier 13 and some, lively work toiana nt'ar'' nine mile.s deep. A heavy
expected j lam tojj.eU their advance but the
The teams as selected last night are I an'1!er.v chorus w is resumed. esVe
a follows: daily couth of the &omme.
Rev. J. B. Snvder, Captain; George; North of the Somme tile French
Haer. H. G. iilydenstein, W. K captured a trench near Morval and
R Lowell. G. M. ; hutiured prisoners. French arui
anj T. J. Twee-, ltr-v rained h-lls on the German do-
ileuses near Belloyeii Santerre.
L'kiah was admitted to probate ve-'tl,wn s working association and ot Marion Jack, eapta.n: F. W. Lamp-' Sv'fia reported the Bulgarians had
OUT terda' afternoon. The estate is val-1 'hereby helping along in movements kin, Kdmund Mabje. K. P. Marshall, ; occupied Malakkalafat, a Roumanian
U 1 ,,.,.1 ... .. ..mm t;.. . i.i, ''nr h.. , ... 101 i u ,1 v:i n .... ntt nl ' I.' .. ...... . ,irv n-i,. , h.i l. ........ .
..uuv. eive oouars - v. . w ...v . , ..miiJii., i. r. o urifii, .MiirK I'ai-. ..v, .r..mi.u. j.nc iw vi-
ton. Roy W. Ritmr. S. R. Thompson l"-e admitted that "coiulderable units'
UP TCI UFI P
w w WI .,.. .,,, th o.if,. u,lv,i.,,-..m.,.t
r u 1 rive oouars - i. . w .... ....
WILSON CAMPAIGN each is left 10 the following children: In carr.Mng out the membership
vmi.hc . ui i.jt. rieu oi i-enaieioii, i - .--
Ks ella Irene Dupew of Rltter lfred 'c-ted, each under a captain, and
Wall street Is not putting up Lester, Emll Hurst, Frace Bell.i'hcse teams will compete to see which
w Blanche Margaret and Louts Clark, all i 11,10 n"-s a Irpf' dmner on tne evening
of l'kiah. The balance is left to the f October i:i. Halt the expense of
u-iilj.w f..r l,..r UA 'this dinner is to be .borne bv lb., club
"v. uui.iiB iivi me-. - .
time. The widow is named as execut- t"'r l'ent tlu' remaining half is to
rlx. T. P. C.illiland, J. E, Sharp and ! bp l',l! fl"' hy the team getting the Cleaver
J. A Yeau-er have bee., nunnlnted an-1 lewest memoers, per cent i) tn
prui.Jers.
many of Its provisions may bithe war or navy department as nr
emended from time tn time as experi
ence may prove wlso. It lavs the foun
dations broad nnd deep for nn Am
erican merchant marine.
tt will be the first time In our his
tory that n governmental neencv hn
been created whose business It will be
suitable for rommerelnl uso, also ths
vessels belonging to the rnnnmn rail
road company.
When the I'nited States is nt war.
or during a national emergency, no
any money for the Wilson cam
paign and is sending no Golden
Specials out west to convert the
heathen to the ways of democ
racy, so It is necessary for com
mon people to finance the cam
paign." This Is the slogan of
a local committee, headed by
W. N. Matlock, that Is raising
a portion of the state-wide fund
for the presidential campaign.
For severnl days past contri
butions have been flowing in
upon the committee, the sums
ranging from $1 up to $10. How-
ever, with the very large fund
available in the Hughes ramp,
because of corporate support, e
It Is desired to raise as much
money ns possible for the Wll-
son fight In Oregon. According-
ly any Wilson supporter or sym- 4
pathizcr Is Invited to contribute
to the fund. In any rum, large
or small. The money Is to be
forwarded to Portland tomorrow
or the next day and therefore
early action is desired. Contrl-
buttons may be mailed to W. N.
Matlock or banded to that gen-
lleman at his office on Court 4)
street.
Other members of the finance
committee are Norborno Herke
ley, J R. Haley, Manuel Frlod-
ly, H. (I. Blydensteln and J. S
: CLASH IS REPORTED
AT CASES GRANGES
i team making the next poorest show ;
ing; 15 per cent by the next team a
10 per cent by the fourth team. The
team getting the most members will
be admit ed to the banquet board Cox,
without Charge. 'oern. A. J McAllister, D. II
All campaigning for members is l..l. K. Montgomery, J. R. Kal.
and V L. Thompson. I Roumanians had crossed the Dan-
J. V. Tallman. captain; Reuben "She and invaded Bulgaria. Artli
Alexander, c. M. Blsnop, Fred Bloch. 1 Iery tin halted the invasion.
J. N. Burgess. W. J. Clarke. Frank S.I Tne Germans Bulgnrs and Turks al
Curl, ti. W". Phelps. F. W. tfteiwer, Dr. tacked the invaders on three sides,
i. V. Temple. ' I The battle began Monday and the
li. K. Chloupek, captain: E. H. outcome is still doubtful
I.eon Cohen, H. W. Collins,! There is anxiety here for the Rou-
John Dickson. Lee Drake. H. D. manlan invaders' safety, despite the
Gray. C. H. Marsh, C. H. Penland, J.lrct the Bulgarians destred pon
H. Sturgis. j toons over the Danube. War experts
C. 1'. A. iajnergan. captain; Dr. f.; believe the Roumanian guns control
E. Boy Jen. M. R. Chessman. A. H. the river crossing.
George A. Hartman, Dr. M & ! ln l'"brudja and Tr nis Ivanu
PORTLAND BIDS
UP THREE CENTS
Wounded (airana officers ArriiviiiK
t M Itfso Give Color to Uunior ' j
Villa Attack Jnare, rVwetl. j t.,UOAUO, Uct. 4.- (Special to the!
I Bast legonian.) Range of prices
today:
I IS NAMED
E
The
Nelson, i "utiles are hotter, fhe H
jand Russians att o-k ng vin
nuts repor;ed tin
renewed ritn agi'n t-ti' , .;
iiiiiiniry nre. Despite the
the British started a t.rrifi.
fiSht soiuh of Ancre ,r...,k
i m tn :a u -oal.
at teruoon n.it
.Johns.
EL PASO. Oct. 4. The arrival or
two wounded Cnrranzista officers from
the Casus (irundes garrison lent col
or to the reports that Carranzlstas
and a small Villista gang, clashed
near there. Cases Grander Is located
on General Porshln&'s communication
lines.
Many Juaret residents stayed on
the American side last night, fearing
a Villista attack. Villa threatened
to attack the city (Hvober 4
Carranzislas located Villa In the
Guerrero district wvt of Chihuahua
City, recriiiling large forces . Carran-
Dec.
May
Open.
1.5i.
ll.57.
Close. !
19 .
(Conflnued on Page 3 )
44444ee4444444)4) vistas diil not irtcllip: a pursuit.
High I'W.
l.f.9 1.5T
1.554 i.r.
IMrtland.
PtRTL,VNl, Ore., Oct. 4.- (Spec
ial Club, II SI; bluestem, 1.js 1-2.
l.lHM'imol.
LIVERPOOU IVt. 4.
Spot No. 1 Manitoba, 14s
(12.15 per bushel); No. 2, Us ; l-2d.
No. 3. 14s 5 l--d; No hard western
winter, Its 1 1-2J.
TOKIO. Oct. 4. Field Marshal
Terauchi has been aiDoint..d r,ri..,u
1.58 Hi minister succeeding Marquis Okuma.
y.ii lormeriy governor general of
Korea,
Jupanese leaders fuvorins a tr,..,e
I military policy supported Terauchi.
Wheat The upper parliament house urged
cnlt.d ti, ......... 1..- .... . IVhelv
- i-'.-oi.i-i mo cnamiMon
of a strong expansion pobcy. particu
larly retarding China, line new-spa
; per predicted Terauchl's appointment
Blunt men often make the most cut- means that the Japanese army woulo
ire: ivuiaii.s. jsoon Wl en route to Peking.
I'K'I'R' ' ;u l . 1 1, t 1. i .
nnimeod th;it l; '..-. n, nanl , ,
steamed ,!,in Ule I'. m il., aiel bom
hard the Bulgarian p. ft flank n.-..r
Rasovii and Dul.rudja The w.r-hi
are cooperating with ih i:u.so-l;,,n
nianlans in at'ackine Mackenwn',
army south of the r.,iiiaiij.i rail
way. A battle is raging along the ln
extending from Rasovn throiiuh Ka
baden to Perveh
Stubborn baltlen o..k pl.ue on thn
Austro-Gerinan front fo-ir Balnov nnd
Korytnica. the enemy re
taining their posltioi 4 along the !
nlowk.i river n. ir the source of tb
Zlota Lypa,
It's always a big boru for a burglar
if the -at- l I 1 ' i t
