HOME EDITION
MEM
Slxir,in bank no: -tt' lii'" 'f s i
f t'-nales, IT1 , -ar Ml.tr H & H '
,uotatton. CSH opj.er. J. 7i .'' !
gra.itis lower .Ivestock tead. stocks j
n rular.
WEATinok forecast.
El rao and wrot Texas, fair. Xfw
Meileo, fair. Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. WEDNESDAY EVENING. OCTOBER 4. 1916.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
IELlVEREr A.sriVHERK S"- A MONTH
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
1 inO 1 1
Operations
TODAY'S PRICES
17.1
SERBS
PUSH
FOE
TOWARD
Finds
Huge
T
i
1
i
flfSHlUllU
NVOYS DISCO
PATROL
SIS IIUS HUM HOT
iESTLNIJIID: IN P1IIT1II
SAFEGUARD tIFEjISFOIDDEAD; IFRAIMS
Counsel for Santa Fe Urges j Fails to Reply to Nebraska !
National Instead of State i Message: Prohibition , !
Regulation. Campaigners Active .
$1,000,000 a Day Changes
Hands Through Syndi
, cate, Officers Assert.
' MANY OFFICES
ATV Sf IT ATT Arjrr
"1UJ iWIiYliiTiiX-f,
Federal Judge Extracts In
formation on Belling from
Unwilling Men.
'CHICAGO, I1L, Oct 4. Government
I , officers were authority for the
- statement today that more than
$1 00,000 chanced hands daily in tho
operations of the bettuig rinc exposed
by federal judge K. M. xandis in his in
vestigation of bonds under which de
fendants in the blackmail cases were re
leased. :
Charles F. Clyne, district attorney, and
James E. Stuart, postal inspector, con- ;
fcrred today in an effort to determine j
by the syndicate
While the ring's headquarters are in
Chicago, prosperous branches were re
ported to attorney Clyne to exist in
l leveiana, ot. lotos, nuusiun, usiaiioiuu
City. Des Moines, Denver, Detroit, Oma
ha. 8an Francisco, Pittsburg, Boston and
Dallas, with perhaps others.
27 More Caught.
The police' OTadeJfturtW efforts Tnea
i dav to find the tfublie sarablin;;. vigence
cf -which judge Landis was drawing in
- detail from unwilling witnesses in his
court and a spectacular raid on a west
side hotel resulted in 27 persons, one of
them a woman, beinc eaptured.
The police burst through a locked door
and found an exeited group, money in
hand, just hearing the announcement of
a race at Louisville.
Judge Is Inquisitive,
v" Judse Landia meanwhile was extraet
, leg further detail? of the system of dis
' seminal ing and utilizing race track in
formation in hundreds of saloons here
and the correspondents in a score of oth
er cities. Occasionally he would break
in on a witness ami adroitly induce him
to reveal that other forms of gambling,
poker, craps and baseball pools, were
flourishing in the back rooms of hun
dreds of saloons and cigar stores,
State's attorney Hoyne also spent a
busv dav, adding to the discomfort of
some politicians.
Saloons Bought Memberships.
The confessions of two former employ
, es of the Sportsmifi's club, which rc
suited in Monday's raid, were made pub
lie and contained assertions that the sale
of life memberships to saloonkeepers and
gamblers at $100 a membership, was a
well systematized and developed branch
sf the club's organization.
The confessions also revealed tat aft
er that saloonkeepers had made arrange
ments with Charles T. Essig, secretary of !
Cincinnati. CL. Oct 4. Legislation I Wavne. Neb . Oct. 4. Greatly en-
whlch -will provide an orderly and re- i couraged over tile prospects for a "dry'
sponsible method of settling railroad
labor disputes as a substitute for the
"terrorism of the strike." was urged
as the prime need of the public and of
railroad corporations in an address de
livered before the fiftn annual con
vention of the Investment Bankers
Association of America here today by
Walker D. Hines, chairman of the
advisory committee and general coun
sel of the Atchison. Topeka and Santa
Fe Railway company.
Favors National Regulation.
Of equal importance. Mr. Hines de
clared, was legislation whereby state
victory in Nebraska this fall, the pro
hibition national campaigners today
closed their meetings in this state here
and left for Iowa and South Dakota
points.
President 'Wilson is ooraiag to Ne
braska tomorrow and the drys are
hopeful, but not optimistic, over the
prospects that he then will state hts
position on prohibition. In the light of
his coming, both J. Frank Ilanly and
Ira Landrlth. the Prohibition candi
dates, continued today to call attention
to- the fact that he had failed to reply
to two telegrams sent from the drv
special train asking him how he stood
on prohibition.
"His pressing duties ana nis omciai
IS THE FIRST
REQUISITE
PISTOL II HID! CELEBRATE DAY
Removal of Pershing's Army
Not To Be Determined
Prior to Other Matters.
regulations reducing net Income of i
railroads through reductions of rates '& STEeSBS of" iVt
and increase of costs will be super- ! .pectful telegrams, but he Is neither
ceded by national regulation; and leg- j too busy nor too dignified to tell one
islatlon whereby the power to Issue "!a'J"'DJ" "' J," ii'.'l "' hV-
stocks and Dnds shall be derived
calls him a pro-British sympathizer.'
TAX SCHEDULE OF
Operators' Opinions Will
Go To Carranza.
Quartermaster Sergeant
Died By Own Hand, Says
Coroner's Verdict.
from, and the method of their issue , WiLS0N REFUSES TO SPEAK
supervisee ay iue naiiuu. i n..tny- nr i mi ts mnirl I
tstrUKt KtAi.nirxu untann-
supervised by
Railroads Want to Expand.
"The publio is interested in the rail
road companies being able to raise
sufficient additional capital to keep
the railroad properties abreast of the
progressive demands of our rapidly
developing business and civilization." .
said Mr. Hines.
"That capital cannot be secured un-'i
less investors can be induced to fur- j
nisix il ana mve&iuro cauuui oe in-
The body of Sergt Frank A. Alex
ander, of the quartermaster corps of
the army, stationed at Fort Clark.
Texas, was found Tuesday evening at
6:5a oclock In a room at 201 South St.
Vraln street, with a bullet wound In
the right ear. In his right band was
foun.l at .45 caliber automatic pis-
MINING MEN READ i
j Mrs. Alexander, who was the only
r . f . . C I witness of the affair, was found kneel-
MeXlCan Commissioners Say , ing on the floor beside the, body of her
husband, crying, wnen a party oi po
lice officers entered the room.
Sergt. Alexander was about 40 years
of age and is survived by his wife
and a baby son. According to the story
of Mrs. Alexander to coroner James M.
Deaver, she and her husband had been
separated for about two months, but
had Intended to IeaTe for Fort Clark
Tuesday night, where lie had been or
dered. She stated mat ne sura soine-
Allianro (l Oft 4
son was greeted by cheering crowds I
as be passed wrougn tne miaaie west,
en route to Omaha, Neb., today. At
Salem and Alliance. O.. several thou
sand persons packed the railroad sta
tions '-and applauded as Mr. Wilson
stepped to the rear platform of his
private car.
when the president awoKe in it
ATLANTIC CITT. X. J, Oct 4.
Further consideration by the
Mexican-American Joint commis
sion was given today to the plan of bor
der patrol proposed by the Mexican
members. It was regarded as probable
that MaJ. Gen. Tasker H. Bliss, assist
ant chief of staff of the army, would
t ?v1xe the American commission.
President Wil- .. .v.- i- in...in iih,
Villa Will Attack Parral,
Report; Gen. Gonzales to
Be Given Banquet.
Fran, isco Villa is to celebrate his
saint's day today by an attack, upon
Parral, according to reports brought
to the border by Mexicans from Chi
huahua City.
Today also is the saint's day of Gen.
Francisco Gonzales, commander of the
Carranza garrison at Juarez. A ban
quet In honor of the general will be
iven tonight hy officers of his staff.
CoL Ricardo Cortinas. commander of
the Carranza garrison at Casas Grandes
and an aide. Capt. Dionecio Ochoa. ar
rived In Juarez yesterday to have an
injured ankle treated. The injury was
received when the colonel was roping
a horse at Casas Grandes, when the
horse dragged him for a short distance.
Gen. Cortinas denies that the injury
was caused by a bullet wound, sus
tained in fighting with Villistas near
Casas Grandes.
A new version of the fight at El
Valle. m which one American soldier
and one Carranza soldier were killed.
That the plan involving withdrawal
of Gen. Pershing's forces from Mexico
would be adopted prior to a definite 1 t Fort Bliss, having served in the
..i.t.in nnrinr fzT CLtmtn. ' Quartermaster department there. Be-
thing to her that she did not like and , which occurred last week, was given
tney naa quarreiea pnor 10 mc miwi
tng. and that he also made a pass at
her as if he Intended to shoot before
be placed the pistol to his right ear.
A verdict of death by the victim's
own hand was rendered in the case
by coroner J. M. Deaver.
Sergt. Aiexanoer was wen nmjn
STFJMY
I! 1 3 H II
U I LflU 1
Berlin Admits the Teutonic
Forces Have Been With
drawn Near Presba.
BRITISH SEIZE
FRENCH VILLAGE
French Advance, Capture
German Defences; Ba
paume Western Goal.
duced to furnish It unless attractive ""ornlng he found several hundred H,-
za's attitude respecting the reopening
of mines and other Industries -was re
garded as improbable.
"What they regard as an equitable
&?. 'c'be oeT Tahe?eC Te? egramfrom people along his route ? ' f- "I.
curities cannot be attractive unless -" "'"' "" :.i "?i Jl . ,D mKn "J wji"-
there is a reasonable prosreot that the. 1 He was informed if he woaldfiaty con- ' - nmt MmmMen Tnesdav hr the
.. i m. j it. aanr r raak l taivaiMil Mks fn t . . . v
ftlrr local IegTslation and through ir- gathered ,easlly. He reiterated he , lagtetertjU In the .republic.
TesponsiDie exactions or organized la- l woum maun no zpeecnes oeiore reacn
bor," I Ins Omaha- -
ZIEWiRTJCIFEBCEBF
ASCABSFALLiNEWMEX.DPENS
!
Cleveland Bridge Gives Way j Bishop Walter R. Lambuth !
unaer street uars, ana rresiaes at Annual oes
Wreck Is the Result. sion in Clovis.
cently i.e was assigned to Fort Clark
tor dutv. LASt &aiuraay morning us
left his pistcd at the office o the pro
vost guard in the police station, re
turning for It Tuesday afternoon.
TENTH DTII51
MimiTi
For two hours theV were In confer'
ecce with Luis Cabrera, head ot.-U.ei..
American commission ana minister oi
finance in his countr?.and Alberto
Pant another member who Is director
eeneral of the National railways.
no alsunsre'ertSrminine' Infantry and Artillery Rests Foreigners are Slain After
n.en that their schedule would be adopt-, while the CavalTv WorKS x lent at UusilTuiriachic.
Out Problems. j Message States.
by CoL Cortinas. Six American so
diers, all of whom bad been drink
ing, attempted to enter El Valle. de
spite the warning of the Carranza i -j-BRIJN, Germany Oc n,-,
muril which siirrnimds th twn fir.. Il . ' """". Irtrmaa
American soldier drew a revolver and j J ana -""iBart" forces on the west
fired at the sentry who challenged ; " rn end of the Macedonian front,
them, he says, and the fight followed. I where heavy fishtintr vlih fh t.
A letter received in El Pas from ,., ,V ", "snuog with, tho Servians
Torreon yesterday stated that VUllsta ! n5 oen 1B Progress for-several weeks.
Pandits were encamped within a few ' again nave fallen back. Today's statA.
. -
moot reports the withdrawal of troops
near Presba lake to prepared positions.
The alHetf attack along the Somme
fro-at resulted Tuesday in further
fighting near Thlepval and Mouquet
farm. The repulse of Jhe British is re
ported In today's aanVancement
rt-nthdrwal of tho Teutonic fn..
in the Presba lake region would placo
. the Serviana in elose proximity to
, MewMtlr, the most traportant town m
souutens bervia. and toward which the
Serrtan wlg of the entente forces is
driving.)
ONDON.
miles of that city, which was practi
cally surrounded. Scores of peons in
Torreon are dying from starvation, it
said.
VILLA KILLS TURK
AND 2 CHINESE
Lo.nboj, Eng, Oct t The war
office announced today that the
town of Baucoart IAbbavp on
the Somme front for possession of
Cleevland, O.. Oct. 4. The death list : Clovis. N. M.. Oct 4. The New Mex-
in Tuesday's bridge tragedy in which leo annual conference of the M. E.
two street cars plunged 30 feet from church south, convened In its !th ses
the "West Thitl street viaduct to the eion In the Methodist church at Clovis
Baltimore and Ohio railroad tracks, at 9 oclock this morning. Bishop
remained at two today, but' of the M j Walter H. LambuUi. of Oakdale, Calif..
injured it was expected one or two is tne presiaent or tne comerence.
ed but It was understood that it would
be submitted to the Carranza govern- j
ment
I The question of transportation was I .- v
agalnVt : wta "the T mining -men : conVJdelr the 10th division. United States army, by Francisco Villa at Cusihulrlachic. ; wmc he5' Ashttag has been In prog-
I confiscatory tax decrees. I alter spending the night Just north of Mexico, following tho fight with Car- I 'or 'everai days, is now entirely
Acaln Meet American Comminiown. , Anthony, remained here today for a ; rancista soldiers under Gen. Matias , Jf Danas OI the British.
The American members of the com- I rtst Tomorrow, the fifth day of their ' Mamos. a message received from the The French are continuing their
Slntnc men'pr'IsenuVlver'fr ' Practice hike to Fort Selden, they ex- J Cusihulrlachic district Wednesday . thn,st northward on the Peronne-Ba-thelr
conference, the American com- ! pect to march to Mesqulte. j stated. A report that five Turks, eight ' Paume ad and have captured strong
mission Issued a statement in which it , It is necessary for the division to J Chinese and a Japanese had been killed Gerraan defences between Morval and
was said if satisfactory agreements can ' .-p near a railroad siding, where tank i there was denied by men who have tne St We're Vaast wood. Paris an-
uc imviicu uu icicmiiw ui imiuoa ,, ., . . fnrnluh water. !
matters, and especially to the resump- i
cars can be set out to furnish water.
tion of mining activities, improved . Fresh meat is also set out at these sld
condltlons in Mexico can be confidently I ings for the evening meal of the sol-
would die.
Investigations were under way by
city officials and the, Cleveland Rail
way company. '
The accident occurred when a south
bound Scranton road car, carrying a
crowd of women shoppers home at the
rush hour broke away from the motor
man on a hill approaching the bridge
and tore down upon the north ap-
proacn to tne Driage just, as a north
Dound car reacned
tho .gnma nninf
the dub. they were allowed to maintain " The runaway car Jumped the track and '
s.ot machines unmolested, ibomas r
Philbine. a club employe who was sent
sur to urge saloonkeepers to instal slot
machines, said that a private customer
ha't beerr skeptical until he had to call
in a policeman to insure him it was all
nght
IHRURT
IITEMSIECK,
struck the northbound car. The com
bined weight of .ie two cars and the
shock of the collision was too much
for the wooden bridge, which sagged
and then gave down.
A telephone girl, seeing the acci
dent, caled doctors and ambulances to
the scene.
Emhraees 51 Pastoral Chnrgrm.
This conference embraces SI pastoral
charges In New Mexico and west Tex
as and Includes 4S regular pastors and
eight "supplies." besides IS lay delegates.
IVoman's Mlsoinary Conference Opens
expected. Such resumption would be
distinctly beneficial to furnishing em-
riif.rs.
The cavalry, wwen was nrsi to ar-
j come from, the Cuslhulriachtc district
since the battle of September SS.
nounces today.
With tho British. In Eaucourt IAb-
Gen. Gandara with a. train nr rrar- ! ba're' their drive towards Bananmo now
ranza troops left Chihuahua City Tues- ,s wtth,n 1-S miles of its obJeoUve
.j... A ...ai...c.i kt. ... z. t t -11-1,. n . -
..- c uumanians uolngf
em- I " """'J' . " ...-. '- --. I J . r-lh,,lrlnkl tn ,.,:, ! ! AVbnf
niMA . ir.,iM. inK- i. - t. rivA hrA vAsterdav. nas Deen engagea r. ....... ., . .be,a.,.yU .
nd' also would tea source of imm . today In maneuvering in this locality- ; caP JflSJS. ' J-'SJ"1' 8' numben
ate revenue to the Mexican government, "scouting for tne enemy. , GeD QzUB , ,,,, of the . which crossed the Danube In,1?, aJ
.. . ,... ,. c j .... I v..Mi-iniiii. Kn nonte. ! rimnn fnrM. in n.t.r. ,iK.,,, .. "...rr? le .uanuoe In an effort
jicjim jiu-i rimi mrtuiuu uir. i .".-. .C2. ,p ..rfii h. ! .."rSLl" ."."'" 7. .t A" " : 'o iuHK me BOIraHWl left anfl (
is isenaing troops into tne uuerrero i Del rieH mr.hi ir...." .
Massachusetts En Iloute.
The necessary prereouislte to such a ' It Is expected that Las L.ruces v.mo
plan would be the return to Mexico of . reached Friday night and ton -semen
American mining operators who have . Saturday night. Jnstead of maklns a
withdrawn during the j-ecent disturb- Quick raaren to beioen ana maneuver-
sending troops Into the Guerrero
district in pursuit or villa, reports from
Chihuahua City state.
an s Missionary conference or Aew
Mexico, is being held. This Is pre
sided over by Mrs. H. M. Smith, of
El Paso.
Conference Organizes.
The conference organized by electing
J. C Jones, secretary: J. H. Walker, as
sistant secretaryr F. B. Faust, statisti
cal secretary.
Addresses of welcome were made by
Prof J. M. BIckley and Dr. Jeremiah
Moore, pastor of the Presbyterian
church. The bishop responded to these
addresses In a felicitous vein.
Visitors introduced were Dr. A. J. La-
....- nnVl!,hlff a-Ant- TT- Tl. 1?m,1F(a1.4
Huntington. W. Va, Oct. 4. A Jury in I 'A1"' ?J,"Z; nZn WirZ. -T f
federal court this afternoon returned a i V.i o.i,.- i,i'ij .!....
verdict of not gunty in the case of 11 ' hev. C. W. Lambeth, pastor of the local
residents of ar Eagle precinct. Mingo (Christian church, and Itev. J. S. Fitz-
anoAB Tho frnt-arnmom f t.A TTnifA.1
. . JvA . . naei-DAr hl mn n th riiv.tfnn marches.
Simultaneously with the .conference, j ---; "V unl anSJ orr J I , w,rP. Thrtarted trip to
ihn?sS,Mt,hsSfonnnary, Rrfncl ! S. . A " 'VSffi. To . Selden. a, 'first expected. Is not being
1 com-
j pel field marshal von Mackensen to ro-
ZCZ .t . - ontions these forces as
comprising "considerable nmts," but
records no contact between them and
-- ouinin
11 FOUND NOT GUILTY
OF FRAUD IN ELECTION
he safety of life and rroDerfvNn the
district in which operations areMo be
resumed. "
made.
Berlin's asFHnn fh-t .
wSi-cb.h"Hn,? crossed
iC". .rZZXZX 'A-"?? ?ntea oy so-
G-een'ille. Texas. Oct. 4. A score of
persons WAre injured, two of them se-
county, indicted for fraud in connec
tion with the cngreseional election of
1914.
During the trial, which occupied
more than a week, testimony was given
by witnesses that 159 .ballots were
found in the War Eagle precinct ballot
box. this being the exact number of
r.-11sy shortly before noon today when j voters registered in the prednct. and
tn- LTie star special, jr the St. Louis
a-3 Snuthwoltern (Cotton Belt) rail
way southbound. lAft the track about
t"n miles east of here.
Thr cause of the derailment has not
heAo determined. Two women
were hrought to a hospital here in what
was reported to be a serious condition.
gerald, presiding elder of the Chihua
hua district.
A telegram from Dr. W. F. Packard
was read and the secretary was author
ized to respond with a message of sym
pathy on account of his continued Ill
ness. Districts Itrport.
S. E. Allison rendered a report of the
Itrswell district; G. H. Givan. of the
11. M. Smith, of
OPINION SAYS UNIONS MAY
LIMIT COATS OF PLASTER
Austin. Texas. Oct 4. In an opinion
rendered by the attorney general's de-
FORMErt pojiTMASTKIt IS 1 P""1 " ,n i , Inat tn Plasterer's
CONVICTED OF MURDER. '. T i""V.""" V"- '""" "": laws in its
f&&J.c&Zi
was found guilty of first degree mur
der and sentenced to life imprison
ment today In connection with the
murder of Ira C Paup, near SunoL
Neb , July S8. last
Connell and J. Granger Lukens, of
Tenver. were charged -with killing
T'. up and Paul Vaslk following the
robbery of the state bank of SunoL
lukens'e trial begins today.
that many of the ballots were cast in
alphabetical order. Some residents ' Albuquerque district
regisierea as voters testmed that they j the El I"aso district
had not voted, although ballots bear- I Reports were read from superannu
ing their names were found in the box. ales W. E. Foulkes, J. A. Trickley and
ueorge waro
COLORADO IS TO HAVE
SCHOOL FOR CANDIDATES.
Denver, Colo.. Oct 4. A "school"
lor candidates and orators is to be
opened Friday at the Republican state
l-tadquarters. It was reported today
The -pupils" are to go over the na
tional and state platforms to famll-t-
nz. themselves with their important
prints.
ferent classes of walls, regardless of
the architect's specifications, the owner
of a building and the contractor. The
opinion holds that union plasterers do
not violate the anti-trust laws by ob
serving such rules.
According to the principle announced,
the pointers union will have the privi
lege of stipulating the number of coats
of paint and the carpenters the num
ber of shingles.
INVESTIGATION OF N. V.
MILK SITUATION COMING
New Tprk. Oct 4. An investigation
before a' supreme court referee to de
termine whether the milk distributing
companies of New York or the dairy
men's league of farmers, or both have
violated the state and trust law In al
leged Attempts to fix the price of milk
will be begun here Friday.
W. S. Huggett was elected editor and
publisher of the conference Journal.
The report of Rev. IL M. Smith, pre
siding elder of the El Paeo district
showed that there arc 17 pastoral
cnarges in tne district
ioiiowr:
MEXICAN BANK BILLS RISE
AFTER FOREIGN PROTEST i
Bank bills of the Banco Nacional de
Mexico and the Banco de Londres y
Maxlco, two of the largest banking in
stitutions in Mexico City, continued to
increase in price here Wednesday at
the local banks which handle Mexican
exchange.
Following the decree of September 5,
issued by Gen. Carranza, requiring a
metallic reserve for all bills issued by
these banks, the currency dropped four
cents. It increased In price Wednes
day to 16U cents for Banco do Londres
y Mexico, and to 17 cents for Banco
Nacional bills. The . protest of the
British and French embassies to the
American state department Is given as
the reason, and bankers predict a fur
ther rise.
ing there. Gen. Parker decided to ma- GONZALES DENIES REPORTS
.OF CHIHUAHUA CITY FIGHT
Rumors of fiirhtincr In fhJhnahiin fTitv
between Villistas anil thA PjirmnTa ' ffa's statement that th. h.-4. .- --Z
1t-A h.l. ..uln,. .htfx It ie clvlnc fill tnr .A a 1"7a, laM.H... T ?...... (Ml nf fm lllille.i.. k.. . ., "
except the cavalry a rest is ostensibly the presence or Villistas at Sauz. 30 ' tora What disposition the Rumanians
to "feel out" the country for the enemy, miles north of Chihuahua City, and of : af,,l,,,,,nfr to eD UP communication.
ineoretioaiiy Known to De in lorce . a passenger tram neintr Btoonml and . r'"' " are unsnown. Bneha-
Klncon and advancing on isi I'aso. i searched lor carranza officers at Villa
I The men are in good spirits and are Ahumada. were received here from
I standing the march welL They were Mexican sources Wednesday, but were
able to march from south ot canutlllo denied by Gen. Francisco Gonzales, mil-
to Anthony yesterday man. paved road ltary commander In Juarez,
most of the way. A turnout was neces- He stated that the railroad and tele-
sary from Vinton to a point Just south graph lines had not been disturbed and
no villistas were near the Mexican
Central line between Juarez and Chi
huahua City.
PROMOTIONS ANNOUNCED FOR
of this place, but the rest of the way
they were able to use the paving.
From this point north, the roads are
good.
I'lrntv of Water.
Tt.... .nAnn .... ..-Uut.J .1 nl.lnM. 1
columns esBterda"y and left water In i CAVALRY OFFICERS KNOWN HERE
immense sheet iron vats, where can- J Among cavalry officers' whose pro
teens were filled. Ice was supplied for! motion is announced by the war de
most of these vats. partment at Washington, are the fol-
Each morning the men have hot break-j lowing well known in El Paso
fasts, and at night they get hot meals. I Sedgewlck Rice, major to lieutenant
fresh meat being sent ahead on the colonel.
supply trucKS. ine noonday meal con- ; George C. Earnhardt,
sists of field rations, when on the ; major.
captain to
ANDRES G. GARCIA, FORMER
CONSUL, TAKES UP NEW WORK
Andres G. Garcia, who for two ir
had held down the position of consul for j
.. wiiauiuuuudiiM government at rll
Paso. Wednesday morning took charge
of his new office, that of inspector gen
eral of consuls for the entire United
States. Mr. Garcia will have his head
quarters here. No succes-mr fnr Mr
The report 1 Garc'a has yet been named.
uu4Bi Mij om. ianu t.ra.vo, inc present
vn .-i. i - " "- -.-n.-i vt lilt I'lCOCII
tMar-noeordo: Pnriv now mAmHAfe I Vice Consul, is atvaltinxr nrdnra tn nm
and an increase in the salary of the . c,eed to h-s new post, at Newport Xews,
preacher. j Va. He will be succeeded here by Angel
Alpine: Twenty-two accessions ami
a new church contemplated.
"Buena Vista: Fifty-three additions;
pastor's salary doubled: a parsonage
puchased and two churches organized.
"Deming: Twenty accessions: debt
of JS4KI canceled and a good revival
conducted by Rev. T. L. Lallance
00 Added to Trinity.
"Trinity church El Paso: Over 10
new members: all benevolences paid,
besides J65W subscribed for the Alta
Vista new church.
"Alta Vista and Highland Park:
Seventy-one accessions: purchase of
new building fete for tl6: erection
of parsonage at a cost of J3190; sub
scription list of $3500 on the new
building enterprise.
k Pnvfor to Remain.
"Eaat . El Paso Mission Vsleta:
(Continued on race S, Column 3.)
Casarin. Senor Bravo
acting consul at El Paso.
Angel
Is at present
Frank P. Lahm. fist lieutenant tn
captain.
Olando C. Troxel. first lieutenant to
captain.
Robert McBeck. Jr to captain.
Horace H. Fuller, second lieutenant
to first lieutenant
INTERNATIONAL SOILi
.rI
rammcREOTiDiij
EL PASO
TEXAS
OCTOBER
1-4 TO 26
191 6
1 ..... . MI 1
JUPtnTO BfrTHE1i-X:il
JELEPHAMT BUTTE DAMT
march.
The artillery and trucks moved north
yesterday over the "west side road,
crossing the bridge at Canutillo and
coming back last night over the An
thony bridge.
;vnd Roads Rest of Way.
With the good roads available from
SZlZ.XiZ TaT-fS c, SOUTH CAROLINA PRIVATE
cavalry, artillery, wagon trains and in- SHOOTS AND KILLS BOBCAT
wagon road from here to Las CrucesT CarollnaTntanSr1- VhSfaf i1
There is much rivalry among the dlf- 8K!?t ""cam' "luwart Tuea?
ferent commands in the matter of keep- I morning before breakfast Three Tshots
ing In line. ;ind few of the men have; were fired at theat. all taWnl ef
fallen out While the command islat-, feet A dog aided In tracking down
tended by ample hospital accommooa- the aniraaL tracRing down
tions. tnere is little need for them. Ken- -, The hide ts being prepared at ihe
.Hbn,.,. uvum, x.ai v,iiaio, viitiRiuB. Miirry anil wiu oe UKn bnmA
Michlganders and Massachusetts men j Rockwell,
ai ofcm,Miii6 a pvtjjt iv nuttie llie rec- ovuvenir.
ord for having the smallest percentage
of sickness in the division.
There Is music almost constantly all
along the lengthy line of march, the
various regimental bands playing mj
sic particularly appealing to the men.
The southern bands show a preference
for "Dixie." or. in the case of the Ken
tuckians in particular, "My Old Ken
tucky Home." The Massachusetts bands
are strong lor lankee Doodle. The
S. C. by Pvt Neal. as
to
FL'NSTON TO INSPECT
TROOPS NEAR LARRDO
San Antonio, Texas. Oct 4. Gen.
Funston plans to leave for Laredo to
morrow night to Inspect Missouri and
New Hampshire troops and other units
Included in the 15th provfctloaal divi
sion, commanded by Brig. Gen. Wra. M.
Mann.
'1
BRITISH RED CROSS SHIP IS
cheering is not confined to the men TIIREK TO I.WRSTIG itg DLUrVfl Uf IN UUVtR STRAITS
from any particular region, however, j HAIIAVAV LAW SELECTED Paris. France. Oct 4. A British Re.
for any particular music. The Yankm , TVaahintnn n c- n a t. lir: -.. ;..;.. J.r "".
ySTrDlXas ,.Vsti,r as Yan" Wil8 h" selected three members oH morning in the straits of Dover, a
kee Ioodle. and they all cheer the "My the board to investiitrate th rUn-o,. cording tn Rr.iinrn riiyn.ih . ..
' eiKht hour law. .. t .
twuiiuuru no lac , v '
rest bas not alluded to the rncve-meat.
Jlulgars Occupy an Island.
Ae Bulgarians apparently are e'ther
engaged in frustrating another Ru
manian movement to cross the Danube
?I ff attempting an operation of this
sort themselves. They report the oc
cupation of the island of Makakalafat
opposite Vldin. in the ex enT north -WA?,Le,r
pa.t,?f Bu'WM. and the dls
a"1 -T "J"1"!1" Rumanian forces
across the river from there.
Berlin Says Romanians Withdrawn.
,KJnRu.mM!an -forces which crossed
the Danube river between the Danube
fortresses of Rustchuk and Turtukal
have withdrawn nastily, says todays
statement from Gerraan array head
quarters at Berlin, as the result of an
encircling movement put into opera
tion by field marshal von Mackensen
ROSS GUIMTS
1TTICK U6
Petrograd, Russia. Oct. i. Russian
troops axe continuing their offensive
against the forces of the central
powers and their allies In the Rumanian
province of Dobrudja. says the Russian
statement today. Russian gunboats on
the river Danube have' bombarded the
left flank of the Bulgarian array near
Rachova. which lies about 14 miles
sooth of Tcherwavoda.
Russian and Teutonic troops con
tinue to fight stubborn battles In the
region west of Bubnov. Near Chelvo
and Kory thtra stubborn battles con
tinue.
Old Kentucky Home.'
Paso Manufacturers and Merchants Will Find Exposition Space Pays
