*t
tfi
&
VOLUME XXXVII.
LOCAL ASSOCIATION
RESENTS CALUMNY
FIREMEN'S RELIEF FUNDS ARE
HANDLED ACCORDING TO
STATE LAW.
PROSPERITY CONTINUES WITH
NEW ULM ASSOCIATION OF
FIRE LADDIES.
uThe New Ulm Firemen's Relief Asso
#iation countinues in the same prosper
M./ ous condition that it has maintained in
the past, as was demonstrated by the
annual report submitted by Secretary
Alfred Schroeck, at the annual meeting
of the association Monday evening.
There are now 45 members, two having
been admitted during the past year.
Members of the association take ex
ceptions to a statement made by State
Public Examiner Andrew E. Fritz in St.
Paul recently, and published the Twin
City papers, in which the examiner is
quoted as saying that practically every
relief association in the state is violating
the state law relative to the handling of
funds. So far as the New Ulm organi
zation is concerned, every dollar of the
funds are handled strictly in accordance
with terms as laid down by the law, is the
claim of the officers. They feel that the
public examiner should investigate all
of the associations financial condition
*4 before making so broad an assertion as
«he has been given credit for. The
treasurer of the local association is undei*
bonds for $10,000, while the secretary's
bond is for $1,000.
According to the secretary's report as
made at Monday's meeting, on October
1, 1915, there was in the special fund
$8,289.68, and on September 30, 1916,
the amount had increased by $926.62,
there being on hand on trie latter date,
$9,216.30. The year's receipts of this
fund were $1,070.62, which included
$688.92, received from the state.
.-*"*—•,, 'The receipts of the general fund were
$147.60, while the disbursements were
$192. Of this fund there was"on hand
on September 30, last, $1,643.57.
At Monday's meeting the association
re-elected the following officers for the
coming year:
President, Charles Brust, Jr.
Vice President, Fred Osw aid.
Secretary, Alf. Schroeck.
Treasurer, Emil Wicherski.
Trustees, John Herzog, Fred Pfaender,
William H. Gieseke, Frank Niemann.
It was decided to hold the regular
7 annual banquet some time during the
fall.
At the regular meeting of the New
Ulm Fire department held before the
Kelief Association meeting, Chief Henry
Engel was recommended for re-appoint
ment by the city council.
DITCH PETITION REJECTED.
At a meeting of the Brown County
Commissioners Monday the petition
relative to county ditch No. 40, was re
jected. The petition called for the
tiling of ditch No. 13, involving about
six miles in Home township.
The objection found by the com
missioners was that the description of the
line of route was insufficient. The
petition was signed by Elizabeth A.
Martine, Edward F. Berkner, Alfred A.
Berkner and W. C. Miller. About
twenty residents of the town of Home
were at the meeting to oppose the
petition.
The commissioners will hold a meeting
next Friday, October 6, to consider a
petition relative to ditch No. 41, in the
townships of Leavenworth and Burns
town.
STATE TAX LEVY.
County Auditor L. G. Vogel has re
ceived from the state auditor notice
relative to the state tax levy, which will
amount to a total of 3.03 mills on this
year's assessed valuation of property,
in figuring the taxes which become due
January, 1917.
The general state taxes amount to
2.02 mills and are divided as follows.
The rates below are given in decimal
fractions of a dollar:
State Revenue 00100
State Road & Bridge 00100
Soldiers Relief Fund 00010
State Prison Fund 00015
The National Guard 00003
Educational Building. 00012
Historical Society 00001
Itasca Park Fund 00001
State General Tax Levy. 00242
In addition the state levies a one
mill tax for the support of the public
1
schools of the state, the proceeds of the
one mill tax in each district going to the
treasury of that district. The state also
levies a tax of .23 of a mill which goes to
the support of the State University
making a total state levy for education
of .00123 on every dollar of assessed
valuation in the state.
The state also levies a tax of one
twentieth of a mill or '.00005 on each
dollar of assessed valuation for the
teacher's pension fund. This makes the
total state tax levy .00371.
In addition the commissioners of each
county will make a tax levy for the
county, and the council of each village
or city will make" a levy for the village
or city. In common school districts the
voters at the annual meeting make the
levy for the school district. In In
dependent districts the levy is made by
the school board.
FATAL AUTO ACCIDENT.
A. C. Anderson, a Lamberton real
estate man, was killed last Thursday
afternoon, when his automobile turned
turtle on the road north of Revere, Red
wood county. Mr. Anderson was riding
in the car with his three children, none
of whom were injured. The car was
being driven by Arthur Anderson, a 14
year old boy, at the time of the accident.
NORTHFIELD PUNS
CONGOCONFERENCE
CHURCH AND COLLEGE UNITE
IN ANNIVERSARY MEET AT
«.
^CARLETON.
INSTITUTION FOUNDED FIFTY
YEARS AGO.—CHAPEL TO BE
DEDICATED.
F. H. Krook was chosen by the Con
gregational church as delegate to the
State Conference of Churches to be held
next week at Northfield. The con
ference will last nearly a week and will
include the celebration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the founding of Carleton
College when the new chapel of the
college and a new organ will be dedicated.
Several young people go from New Ulm
every year to continue their education
at Carleton and the celebration will
therefore be of interest to a number of
parents whose young people are now at
school at Northfield.
The commemoration-conference week
will begin Sunday, October 8th, with the
dedication of the Skinner Memorial
chapel. Monday's special event will be
the dedication of the chapel organ and a
recital will be given by W. Lynnwood
Farnam of Boston, organist of Emmanuel
Episcopal church in Boston. A dinner
has been arranged for Monday also at
which the Minnesota Congregational
Club will be guests.
Tuesday and Wednesday will be given
over to the deliberative sessions of the
conference, with continuous work morn
ings, afternoons and evenings.
Thursday the commemorative services
begin. The history of Carleton College
since its founding will be reviewed.
These sessions will be notable from the
large number of college presidents who
will be present from all over the United
States. Among them will be President
Eaton of Beloit, President Maine of
Grinnell, President King of Oberlin,
President Vincent of Minnesota, Presi
dent Burton of Smith, President Slocum
of Colorado and President Lowell of
Harvard. Many of these famous men
will deliver addresses Thursday and
Friday.
SKAT CLUB ORGANIZES.
evening which was well attended. Six
tables played and the prizes were won as
BIG RECLAMATION
PROJECT PLANNED
ALL MINNESOTA DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION TO ASK FROM
LEGISLATURE.
The Minnesota legislature which con
venes in January next will be asked to
appropriate money for a survey of the
of Minneapolis, chairman of the re
clamation, drainage and flood com
mittee of the association.
Flood relief, drainage of the low lands
and reclamation of more than half the
area of the state were declared the
paramount problem before the common
wealth.
Attorney General Smith was com
missioned to draw a bill to be presented
to the legislature providing for a topo
graphical survey of the state, and if
possible, for hydrographic, soil, water
and water power surveys as well.
It was estimated by some of these
present that the survey would cost about
$200,000, while Dr. F. W. Sardeson of
the state and federal geological survey
estimated that a thorough undertaking
of thxs kind would cost at least $4,000,000.
(The proposal for such a bill to come
before the legislature followed a general
discussion of the state's drainage needs
in which the main point of agreement
appeared to be that these needs should
be determined from an engineering
standpoint and then a state-wide pro
gram be formulated for meeting them,
as against sectional or local programs*
The problems involved, it was stated,
were not intrastate, by any means, but
that both North and South Dakota
were affected' by "the same" conditions
that troubled Northwestern and Central
Minnesota. Tney went even farther,
it was asserted, in the fact that Canada
was involved on the northern border,
which made the question international
and called for considei ation by the In
ternational Joint commission.
Dr. Sardeson outlined a scheme for
flood relief in the lower Minnesota
River valley which called for connecting
the drainage area of Red Lake and the
Red Lake river with that ot the Minne
sota river. By empounding the waters
of Rea lake and its basin, he said, the
flows west and south into the Minnesota
river could be so regulated as to keep
a mean annual flow in trie lower Minne
sota, thus keeping the channel open at
all seasons to accommodate the dis
charge of its own tributaries.
"In South Central Minnesota," said
Dr. Sardeson, "where land values are
high and it becomes necessary to make
every acre productive, tiling and drain
age on a large scale must be carried on.
In the Minnesota valley alone close to
$20,000,000 in the next 20 years for
drainage projects will be needed. A like
amount will be needed for an equal area
in upper Minnesota.
"The problem of reclamation is a big
one in upper Minnesota. Forests, swamp
land and musl^eg are preventing rapid
settlement and there drainage must
precede and not fellow settlement."
WATONWAN FAIR
LUCK.
A foot-ball game with Malcalester will While the Watonwan County Fair
follow the serios work and a banquet association is somewhat crippled, owing
at 6:30 Friday with a program of speeches to the rainy weather during the progress
will conclude the week's gatherings. of the fair, it is still very much alive,
according to the St. James Independent.
New Ulm's skat club had their first had the weather been more favorable, an
fall session at Turner Hall Monday official of the association is credited with
saying
net points 3rd prize, Max Burg, grande money to pay the current expenses. To
against four special prize, Joh„n Backe.r
high play. After the session was over,
a business meeting was held and new
officers elected. The newly elected shape to care for all pending bills
officers are Otto Oswald, Pres. Barney A proposition is up to the voters of
Esser, Vice Pres. Anton S. Dorn, Secy.
John Backer, Treas. Robert Williams,
skatmeister. The annual dues were
has been selected for the meeting night. St. James and the county.
The sessions will begin not later than
8 o'clock. Attorney Storning of Tyler
side visitors at Monday',s session.
&
)ni [if"*,, -, ^j: /I h^j
•ij-
id
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4, 1916.
RECOVERY OF UNDRAINED LANDS STATE R.
DECLARED PARAMOUNT AT MUST
MEETING.
HAD HARD
The attendance this year was cut down
to one-third of what it would have been
The receipts, meager as they were,
follows: 1st prize, Albert Haag, 16 net were seized by a creditor to satisfy a note Service
games 2nd prize, Ernst Wicherski, 719 iov $800, leaving the board short of society.
relieve the situation Jowev
five business men and farmers advanced
$100
4 of
The Epworth Leaguers of the German
and Julius Krause of Cobden were out- Methodist church will hold their annual o'clock Friday evening at the hall
.J -_--^ J. «_ .... election Friday evening of this week.
BOARD IS PUZZLED
OYER PHONE RATES
AND W. COMMISSION
MEET PECULIAR
SITUATION.
RURAL COMPANIES UNABLE TO
ADOPT ADEQUATE SCHEDULE
FOR SUBSCRIBERS.
The Minnesota Railroad and Ware
house commission is face to face with a
a at it a on in
undrained lands in Northern Minnesota.
This was decided at a meeting last brought to the attention of the
SaturdaV of the All Minnesota Develop
ment association at the State capitol.
The meeting was called by A. L. Crocker remedy
rural telephone field. Of late there has
commission from various parts of the
state a condition that requires immediate
The condition arises from the failure
of the rural companies in the first in
stance to adopt a schedule of rates that
would carry their burdens. The situa
tion is very similar to the one that the
fraternal insurance orders were called
upon to face some years ago and which
all but disrupted some of them. In
order to make their insurance depart
ments attractive certain orders adopted
a set of rates which later proved in
adequate. The inevitable result was
that they were compelled to raise their
rates not only high enough to meet the
obligations of the order but to cover the
deficiencies of the period of low rates.
The only other alternative was a dis
solution of the order and the partition
of the assets among the members of good
standing. The majority raised the rates
and gradually are getting on their feet
again.
In-like manner scores of rural telephone
companies in Minnesota, and of course
elsewhere, fixed their rates without re
gard to the day of reckoning. No pro
vision was made for depreciation or to
meet obligations. The subscribers ob
tained oi course telephone service at a
very moderate figure and wrere pleased
accordingly. But the fature is net so
te*£§^p|udging from many of the com
munications received by the Com
mission.
An instance is furnished by a telephone
concern with a plant valued at about
$25,000 and serving 450 subscribers in
one of the best known farming sections
of the state. The secretary of the com
pany writes that the plant almost has
outlived its usefulness and unless re
constructed the cost of maintenance will
be in excess of the earnings. It is sug
gested that the Commission make an
investigation of the entire situation, in
cluding an examination of the books
and an inspection of the plant, and pro
pose a table of charges that will be fair
to all concerned. Otherwise, writes the
secretary, the company will be wrecked,
the subscribers deprived of their tele
phone service and the stockholders
liable for assessments to liquidate the
obligations of the company.
"This is an unfortunate condition",
said a member of the Commission, "but
we are quite helpless. We can send
men out to make investigations with a
view of ascertaining the reasonableness
cf rates, but hardly to advise local
companies what rates to charge. Such
a duty was not contemplated by the
legislature and the amount of the legis
lative appropriation for the maintenance
of the newly created telephone depart
ment would preclude any such action.
"Telephone companies should obtain
("Continued on Page 3.)
LIBERAL CONFERENCE
HANSKA.
iias
ocv ic
of the
On the
me
each, placing the association in Unity, Buffalo, N. Y., will preach
Unity choir will furnish the music
Friday forenoon's session will take
Watonwan county to authorize the iaCe at Nora church, while the after
county commissioners to appropriate noon session will be held in the hall from
2 to 4:30 o'clock Folllowing this
one mill tax to pay the present
fixed at 50c per annum. There will be indebtedness, which'now amounts to S S S S
weekly meetings, and Monday evening the $2,500 advanced by the citizens of
a
V-V \s&»&'rffK«ie'wv
^^^^^^^J|jOL
to 7:30. Members of Union Orchestra
will play.
A platform meetin& will be*«=«
^x.
iUC
rates to cover operating expenses, taxes cation for a month's furlough the day
that Pfeiffer left Llano Grande and hoped
to be able to secure leave of absence in
order to be home for the fall term of
court in Brown County. Pfeiffer said
that the Major hoped to take his family
AT
An elaborate program has been pre
pared for the Liberal Conference to take
place at the Nora church in Hanska next
Thursday and Friday, October 5 and .6.
Thursday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock GERMAN
the first session will be held, Rev. Elmer
S. Forbes of Boston, delivering the
principal address.
swici^. yju vim »uue evening cum- UT. urban a lecturer for the Cpntral
ncing at 8 o'clock, a conference service Bund. The lecture will be riven
W. Burton, pastor of the Church of dially invited to attend
held at 8
The
following speakers are to give addresses: Friday.
Rev. Ernest C. Smith of Chicago, secre
tary of the Western Unitarian con
ference Rev. Walter A. Smith of St.
Cloud, and Rev. Richard W. Boynton
of Buffalo, N. Y.
Thursday at 12:30 p. m. a dinner will
be served to the visiting delegates and
at
the church grounds.
The general public is invited to attend
the services at the church and hall.
HEATING PLANT NOT YET READY
The municipal heating plant will be
completed in every detail by October 15th
according to W. A. Rupea superintendent
for the Healy Plumbing & Heating com
pany of St. Paul, which is installing the
plant.
"We could turn on the steam at any
time, now," said Mr. Rupea, "but few
the of the buildings have been connected up
to receive it."
The Corn Belt Publisher, official organ
of the Iowa Press association, has just
made its appearence. G. L. Caswell of
•Dennison, Iowa, is the editor. It con
tains sixteen pages, devoted to the do
ings of editors, publishers and press as
sociations, especially pertaining to its
own state.
SECURES RELEASE
FROM BORDER DUTY
SERGT. WM. PFEIFFER RETURNS
TO NEW ULM FROM THE
TEXAS BORDER.
MAJ. PFAENDER ALSO EXPECTS
TO SECURE FURLOUGH. ALL
ARE WELL.
When "Big Bill" Pfeiffer loomed up
on the horizon Tuesday morning in New
Ulm it was generally supposed that he
represented the vanguard of the re
turning boys from the front but ac
cording to what Bill says there is little
fikelihood of the ethers geffiing home" in
time for Thanksgiving Day altho he said
that when he left all of them were
figuring hopefully on getting back by
the loth of this month. Pfeiffer said
that he thought so too until he got to
Fort Snelling and saw the preparations
there to send more men to the front. In
his opinion the rest of the Minnesota
troops will still be in the Sunny South
when a spring returns to the land.
Pfeiffer secured his release from the
'service because of his dependent family
and left Texas last Wednesday morning,
arriving in New Ulm Monday night.
He says that Minnesota looks plenty
good enough for him and that he has no
intention of turning around and going
back to the border right away. The
men all sent messages that they were
well and getting along O. K. but that all
would be mighty glad to get back home
again. Lieut. Puhlmann and Sergt.
Christiansen who recently underwent
operations for appendicitis have fully
recovered and are again on duty. Capt.
Groebner and Lieut. Klause have also
been released from the hospital where
they had been confined on account of
slight attacks of malarial fever. Only
one other man of the Company was
afflicted with malaria, Holcomb of Spring
field being the third victim of the
"shakes".
Major Pfaender had put in an appli
South with him on his return to spend
the winter. All that would look as tho
the men's stay might be prolonged.
secretary of the Department of Social speak at the high school auditorium on
American Unitarian subjects relating to German Literature,
sam evening,, com- Dr. Urban iis a lecturer for the Central
LECTURER ENGAGED.
Thursday evening, Nov. 2nd, Dr.
The Rev. Mr. Forbes Urban, German poet and journalist will
fa
INJUNCTION IS SUSTAINED
Sheriff C. H. Curtis, of Lincoln county,
a has been restrained from locking several
will be served from 5:30 quarters,
which they occupy in the jail building.
A temporary injunction granted by
Judge I. M. Olsen several months ago
has been sustained by the state supreme
court, in a decision handed down last
NUMBER 40
KELLOGG AND BEDE
HEARD AT ARMOR!
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE MILB
IN HIS CRITICISM OF
DEMOCRATS.
DISCUSSES MILITARY, NAVAH
AND INDUSTRIAL PREPARED
NESS AFTER WAR.
Hon. Frank B. Kellogg of St. Paul
began his speech before the Republican
mass meeting at the Armory, Monday
evening by saying that he might not
be so well known to many of his audience
but that New Ulm was not new to him.
In fact, he said, he came here some
thirty-five years ago from Rochester,
with the intention of opening a law office.
"I was a young lawyer, then," he con
tinued, "with the whole world before
me. New Ulm then was quite a ways
into the frontier."
Mr. Kellogg's address, while Republi
can and espousing the cause of his party
throughout, was exceedingly temperate
in tone.
"While I am a Republican from the
bottom of my heart," he said, "I do not
and never did believe in placing party
above duty to my country."
Discussing the preparedness question,
Mr. Kellogg said that this country
should not only be so prepared from a
military and naval standpoint, that it
might be able to repulse an invading foe,
but above all and of more importance
is industrial preparedness.
"This country does not need a large
army nor an overwhelming navy," he
declared. "What we want and must
have is a military and naval strength to
protect our sea coasts and our borders
from invasion and for the protection of
our citizens and their property, whether
at sea, at home, or in foreign lands. The
people of this country never will go to
war for conquest."
Discussing industrial preparedness the
-speaker warned his_ hearers that all of
the warring nations will be prepared at
the end of hostilities to put up a still
more aggressive battle for the commerce
of the world, and will fight to regain and
control the markets, not only of their
own possessions, but for those of South
America and even in the United States.
"Any person," he said, "who believes
that Germany is bankrupt, or even
crippled by reason of her great expen
ditures during the war is greatly mis
taken. The fact is that she has
borrowed all of the money so far ex
pended in hostilities from her own people,
which has been paid back to them for
farm produce, for clothing, and for
munitions with which to feed, clothe and
equip her great army. The same is
partially true of the allied nations."
"And as for England," he continued,
"do you know that she has been building
ships since hostilitites began so rapidly
that with all of her losses she now has a.
(Continued on page 2)
LONG LITI'GATION SETTLED.
The litigation which has been pending
between Joseph and Edward Engesser
for two years has been settled out of
court at St. Peter.
By the terms of the agreement the
holdings of the brothers are divided,
Edward acquiring full possession of the
brewery property in St. Peter, while
Joseph obtains various other items of
real estate and personal property in that
city, formerly held by the brothers in
partnership.
Of the case the St. Peter Herald says:
"The brewery and other interests had
been held by the partnership of Engesser
Brothers since about 1890, having passed
to them from their father Mathew Eng
esser, one of the pioneers of St. Peter.
The senior Engesser came to St. Peter in
the early 60's and not only was he a
pioneer in a personal sense, but the
brewery is an old landmark of the city.
Engesser Brothers operated the brewery
for nearly a quarter of a century.
"About January 1, 1915, differences of"
opinion as to the management and general
conduct of the'business arose. At first
of a trivial nature, they finally developed
into trouble of a nature which made the
appointment of a receiver seem advisable.
Shortly after this date the Mankatc*
Loan & Trust Company of Mankato was
appointed a receiver to conduct the busi
ness of the partnership. Prior to^ this,,
action had been begun by Edward
Engesser against Joseph Engesser, which,
in the course of legal procedure was post
poned several times until the action was
at last set for Sept. 14 of this year, at a
special session of the court held for that
action."
U-
»i
