3
n
y Tim
VOI XX NO. 171.
BAKUE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 101G.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARM
DA
BRITISH
NOW HOLD
L'ABBAYE
Town on Somme Front, for
the Possession of Which
Fighting Has Been in
Progress for Several Days,
Is Now Entirely in the
Hands of Entente Allies
TAFT AND TEDDY
CLASPED HANDS
FRENCH CAPTURED
STRONG DEFENSES
Have Seized a Position Be
tween Morval and St. Pi
erre Vaast Wood, Togeth
er with 200 Prisoners
Russians Score Big Gain
in Drive on Lemberg
London, Oct. 4. The war office an
nounced to-day that the town of Eau
court L'Abbaye on the Somme front, for
the possession of whirl) fighting has been
in progress for several days, is now en
tirely in the hand of the British.
Paris, Oct. 4. A stronply fortified line
of (icrinan defense between Morval and
St. Pierre Vaast wood on the Somme
front has been captured by the French,
the war office announced to-day. Two
hundred prisoners were taken.
RUSSIANS DRAW
NEARER LEMBERG
Drove Austro-German Forces Back and
Are Now Menacing Brzetanyt
After Making Consider
able Advance.
Lot don, Oct. 4. After three days' in
cessant and furious fighting the Russians
are reported to have won a considerable
advantage in their new drive on Lemberg
from the south and to be threatening the
important railroad town of Brzezanyt,
50 miles southeast of Lemberg.
Renter's Petrograd corespondent says
the Russians, under cover of artillery
fire, forced their way across the Zlota
Lipa river, south of Brzezanyt, driving
the Austro-German foreeg from the
heights. The Russian artillery then ad
vanced and began a bombardment of a
camp of military establishments in the
suburbs of the tiwn.
RUMANIANS ARE IN FORCE
Two Ex-Presidents Came Together at
Hughes Reception in New York,
But Had Little to Say to
Each Other.
New York, Oct. 4.- Theodore Roosevelt
und William JL Taft clasped hands for u
moment last night at the Union League
club's reception to Charles E. Hughes.
"How do you do?" said Mr. Taft.
"How do you do?" Mr. Roosevelt re
plied.
Each bowed and Mr. Roosevelt passed
on to shake, bands witn otlier guests,
leaving Mr. Taft to greet those who fol
lowed. A few moments later Mr. Roose
velt took his place in the receiving line.
He stood between Mr. Hughes and Chann
cey M. Depew. Just the other side of
Mr. Depew stood Mr. taft.
Ihus standing in the same line they
shook hands with the hundreds of club
members and their guests who liled past
luring the evening. .They did not meet
again, however, or exchange any otner
J work than the commonplace greeting.
U C SIll'UH 1IUUUB, Ul. IHIt BlllU Ulll'I-
ward, "just like any gentleman would
shako hands.'"
Colonel Roosevelt declined to comment
on the meeting.
After the handshaking was over and
the library was cleared. Elihu Root, pres
ident of the club, escorted Mr. Hughes
through a flag draped corridor to a small
platform in the main club room. Beneath
a litesizo picture of Abraham Lincoln,
Mr. Root again introduced the nominee
and Mr. Hughes made a brief address.
Colonel Roosevelt and Mr. Taft were
called upon by Mr. Root and each re
sponded with a short talk.
I he meeting between Colonel Roose
velt and Mr Taft was the first since
April 13, 1!)15, when both were pallbear
ers at the funeral of Thomas R. Ixmns-
berry, for a long time professor of Eng
lish at Yale university and a close friend
of both. On that occasion they merely
shook hands, exchanging no word.
The reception was arranged some time
ago and public announcement was made
that Mr. Taft and Mr. Roosevelt would
meet. The hour set for the affair found
the clubhouse entrance choked with hun
dreds of men in evening clothes. Elihu
Root waited at the door to welcome the
guest of honor, Mr. Hughes, and the two
former presidents. j
The lirst to arrive was Mr. Taft. The
7th regiment band on the staircase land
ing was playing as he stepped from his
automobile. Samuel W. Fairchild, a for
mer president of the club, took Mr. Taft's
arm and he and Mr. Root helped make
a way through the crowd. Mr. Taft's rec
ognition by the guests hung tire a mo
ment and then proclaimed itself in cheers.
Five minutes later came Colonel Roose
velt. The packed hallways cheered him
and ho acknowledged the greeting by
lifting his wide brimmed black felt
hat. With Mr. Roosevelt came Regis II.
Post and Senator Weeks of Massachu
setts. The cheering for Roosevelt was
still in progress when Mr Hughes and
William R. Willcox, Republican nation
al chairman, reached the building. There
was a moment's hush and then the crowd
cheered Hughes.
Mr. Root escorted Mr. Hughes to ttie
library, temporarily converted into a re
ception parlor, and George R. Sheldon
TRY TO FORCE
HOLLWEG OUT
A Growing Demand Being
Made in Germany for the
Chancellor's Retirement
CIRCULAR ISSUED,
CRITICIZING HIM
Statement Finds Fault with
About Everything He
Has Done
Rerlin. via London, Oct. 4. The cam
paign against Chancellor Von Rethmann
Hollweg is daily assuming more tangible
form. One of the latest developments is
a circular, demanding the retirement of
the chancellor, sent out by a vociferous
group of his opponents to such members
of the Reichstag as are considered open
to their arguments.
The indictment covers almost every
thing in the ehancellur's conduct of for
eign affairs before and during the war.
The attacks are made in particular on
his attempts to reach an agreement with
England, his first attitude toward Bel
gium's neutrality and, naturally, his pol
icy in the submarine issue. The only
name of international prominence among
the signers is that of Ernest Haeckel,
and the circular is regarded as sympto
matic rather than serious.
BERNSTORFF TO SEE WILSON
Ambassador to Present Emperor's Reply
, on Poland Aid Matter.
Long Branch, V. J., Oct. 4. Count Von
Bernstorir, the German ambassador, will
call on President Wilson here next Mon
day, it. was announced last night, liefore
Mr. Wilson started on hi western trip at
8:30 o'clock. It is understood he will
present a personal letter from the Ger
man emperor replying to autograph mes
sages ent bv the president to the rulers
of several European nations urging that
a method be agreed on for getting relief
supplies to starving people in Poland.
It has been reported that the German
replv does not tend toward an agree-
nu'iit. The entente allies have taken the
position that they will allow the ship
ments if fowl already in Poland is not
shipped out nor utilized by German or
Austrian troops.
The contemplated visit here of Count
Von Bernstorff revived reports of pos
sible moves for peace in Europe or of a
resumption of Germany's submarine war
fare. Ambassador Gerard is now on his
way home from Berlin.
TWO WOMEN INJURED
As Automobile Skidded in Loose Gravel
and Turned Over.
Hubbardton, Oct. 4. As the result of
took Colonel Roosevelt's arm. Crossing i an automobile accident yesterday after
the room to where the receiving line was limoh when a Ford automobile driven by
forming, Colonel Roosevelt shook bands j E. R. Hurlbert of this place, skidded in
loose gravel and turned turtle, Mrs. E. K.
Hurlbert is suffering from at least -ne
fractured rib and Mrs. Seymour Hurlbert
with eight or nine persons, among them
W illiam M. Calder
for senator from New York, Robert Ba-
Bulgaria Admits That Invading Army Is
Large.
Sofia, via London, Oct. 4. The luma
nians who have crossed the Danube and
invaded Bulgaria were described as con
siderable units of troops in the official
statement to-day. The statement, how
ever, does not report any clash between
the Bulgarians and the invaders.
MONTPELIER
H.
eon, George Von Li. Meyer and air. i;e
pew. Then came the meeting between
Colonel Roosevelt and Mr. Taft.
They had changed somewhat in ap
pearance since the time tney last ex
changed greetings. Both were some
what grayer than they were then, with
the lines of their faces deepening into
wrinkles. Mr. Taft was nearly 10
pounds heavier when he was president
than he is now.
When they were brought face to face
by Mr. Sheldon there was no word of
introduction no time for it. For a frac
tion of a second their eyes met and each
looked into the other's unsmiling face.
Then Mr. Taft extended his hand and
Colonel Roosevelt took it.
TALK OF THE TOWN
J. Volholm Will Open His New Store
For Business To-morrow.
H. J. Volholm has finished the work of
completely renovating the building at
S9 Main street which he purchased sever
al months ago and will open his new
store for business to-morrow. Workmen
have been employed since July in pre
paring the building for Mr. Volholm's
furniture business and as a result the
store will be one of the finest and most
up-to-date in this part of the state. The
walls and ceiling of the ground floor
have been finished entirely in white and
furnish an attractive background for
his stock of goods. A new lighting sys
tem has been installed and the building
equipped v. ith steam heating apparatus.
The size of the store, 80 by 33 feet, af
fords ample room for the display of
goods anil in addition the second and
third floors are utilized as show rooms.
The chapel and morgue, necessary to
the undertaking business, are located on
the first floor but entirely separate from
the other department with an entrance
distinct from the front. An elevator,
motor driven, has been installed in the
rear of the building and new stairways
of hard pine connecting the floors have
been constructed.
The Republican state committee will
open campaign headquarter to-morrow
in the Boardman house on State street,
next to the Pavilion hotel, according to
an announcement made yesterday after
noon by Chairman Stanley C. Wilson of
Chelsea. The committee made their
headquarters in the Boardman house two
years ago.
Mr. and Mr. Harry Brooks, who have
been visiting in the city for two weeks
with (he former's parents, left this fore
noon for their home, New York City.
Homer Jerd, who is taking a week's
vacation from his duties in the Boston
Fruit Exchange, went to-day to Ran
dolph to visit relatives.
Miss Emily Hopkins, who has been
spending the summer in the city with
ber parents, Mr. and Mrs. Herman D.
Hopkins, of College street, left to-day1
for Boston, where she is attending school, expected.
George Cahoun of Walden is employed
as a clerk in the furniture store of A. W.
Badger & Co.
Police headquarters got a telephone
message this noon from Mrs. Louis Badg
er of Brooklyn street, who asked the offi
cers to Iook alter a Dunuog wnicn Dit
her boy this forenoon. Inquiry developed
the information that the lad is a pupil in
the Mathewson school building and
that a dog came along while he was leav
ing the school just before the dinner
hour. The dog snapped viciously ant
followed up his warning by fastening his
fangs in the lad's leg. The Badger boy
hurried homo and told his mother, who
called a physician liefore calling the po
lice. Parents ot the little fellow are ap
prehensive of serious results.
Preparations for entertaining a large
number of delegates at the annual con
vention of the W. C T. U. of Vermont
in Barre next week are going rapidly for
ward under the direction of a commit
tee representing nearly every church in
the city. Sessions of the convention are
to be held in the Hedding Methodist
church and reports from several chapters
about the state indicate that the attend
ance will be unusually large. It was
announced to-day that the principal
speaker at the opening session will be
Miss C V. Tillinghast, who is to address
the delegates on the subject, "Democracy
and the Liquor Traffic.''
The condition of Arthur Iabell. a ltf-year-old
Graniteville boy, who suffered
a leg fracture last Saturday, is report
ed to be encouraging. Young Isabell is
a patient in the City hospital, where
physicians are watching with interest the
progress of a grafting operation in which
a detached segment of bone was grafted
against the limb. Frank McPberson, an
other quarry employe from Graniteville,
who was injured at the Wetmore &
Morse quarry in Websterville yesterday,
passed a fairly comfortable night. Mr.
McTherson submitted to an operation
for the reduction of a comminuted frac
ture of the right arm. Injuries which
the man received about the face and
head are less serious than was at first
from severe bruises. The spill happened
not far from the Hurlbert home near the
float bridge on Lake Bomoscen and the
other two occupants of the car, who were
unhurt, managed to get the injured ones
to the house.
The machine was almost a new one
and had been in the possession of the
Hurlbert family less than a month. One
door of the car was bent. Dr. R. H. See
ley of Castloton attended the injured
women.
TO BE MUSTERED OUT
LAST OF THE WEEK
Company H of Montpelier Will Be One
of the First and Will Reach Home
City Friday.
Burlington, Oct. 4. The mustering out
of the federal service of the first regi
merit of infantry, Vermont National
Guard, which arrived on Wednesday
Sept. 27, at Fort Ethan Allen, after three
months' service at Eagle Pass, Tex., w ill
commence Friday morning, and h11 of
the officers and men will have left the
post by Saturday afternoon- Companies
II of St. Albans, K of Northfield and H
of Montpelier will be mustered out Fri
day morning; A company of Rutland, C
nd M companies of Burlington nnd G
company of Winooski will be mustered
out Friday afternoon, and 1) company ot
St. -lohnsbury, E company of Bellows
Falls, I company of Brattleboro, K com
pany of Springfield, h company of New
port nnd the machine gun troop, head
quarters and supply companies will be
mustered out Saturday morning. Col
Ira L. Reeves, commanding officer of the
regiment, and his staff will probably
leave Fort Ethan Allen on Saturday aft
ernoon. The regimental band, which w-as
mustered out some weeks ago and re
called to Fort Ethan Allen alter the regi
merit's return from the border, has al
ready been allowed to return home.
Oapt. U. M. Diller'pf the third infantry,
U. S. A., is mustering out officer.
B company of Sfj. Albur.3 will return
home on the reeuhir train, while a spe
cial train will be used to transport F
company of-North field and II company of
Montpelier to their homes. A company
will return to Rutland on the regular
train and C and M companies of this
citv and G company of inooski will
probably march to their home stations.
Special trains will ala i be on hand to
take D and L companies to St. Johns
bury and Ncwport.and E. I and K com
panies to Bellows Falls, Brattleboro and
Springfield. The commanding officers of
the company will disband their organiza
tions at their home stations. The men
will be paid in full at Fort Ethan Allen
just before entraining. AH of the men
have at least one month's federal pay,
beside the state pay, which was voted to
them by the legislature, still due, besides
various allowances, and a good many of
them who have not previously drawn
their full pay will receive a considerable
sum of money.
Col. Reeves announced yesterday that
the Vermont regiment would not be rep
resented this year by a rifle team at the
national rifle matches, which will be shot
this' month at Jacksonville, Fla., because
of the failure of the government to make
any appropriation for this purpose. The
national government's appropriations for
the supjwt of the organized state militia
were made on July 1 and at that time
Vermont had no organized militia, as a
few days previous to that date they had
been mustered into the federal service.
FOOD COSTS INCREASING.
Marked Advance in Cost of Living Shown
In Reports from Principal Markets.
Washington, Oct. 4. Marked increase
in the cost of living is shown in tiie ris
ing tendency of prices of foodstull's on
Oct. I, reports of which are just being
received at the department of agricul
ture from the principal market centers.
With flour selling higher than at any
time since the Civil war, due principally
to the shortage of the wheat crop, this
year, the cost of potatoes has mounted
for like reason. Meat continues to ad
vance with prices almost 24 per cent over
a year ago. Butter, eggs and cheese all
are selling higher than last year and
beans show an increaso of more than 70
per cent because of the short crop. On-
, lions are more than 50 per rent higher
ci -i ,1 nnltkniTOf ranra 1 11. 11 A fl mir font Vl i ) .
BUU l-tiriWLO 111''' L II" II 1 ' . ' " " .
er.
Butter was sidling about 12 per cent
higher than a year ago, according to the
latest statistics available yesterday at
the department of agriculture. The price
was one cent a pound higher than it has
been in the last eight years at this time
of the year.
Eggs were selling five cents a dozen
higher than last year but was lower for
the period than in several of the last
eight years.
Potatoes were selling 116 per cent
higher than a year ago.
Cheese showed an increase in price of
more than 23 per cent over a year ago
and was higher than it had been in the
last eight years.
Hogs were selling 25 per cent higher
than a year ago; beef cattle more than
seven per cent higher, veal calves more
than 10 per cent higher; sheep more than
eight per cent higher, and lambs more
than 20 per cent higher.
McGRAW'S REMARKS
TO BE IGNORED
BY COMMISSION
Pres. Tener of National League Declared
That McGraw Was Undoubtedly
Wrought Up Over His
Team's Slump.
New York, Oct. 4. The national com
mission will lake no action on the state
ment wado by Manager John McGraw
of the New York Giants, that his team
played listless ball in the game yester
day when Brooklyn easily defeated the
Giants and captured the National league
championship. President Tener of the
National league said to-day that the com
mission would not take any cognizance
of McGraw'g remarks.
"McGraw undoubtedly was wrought up
over the fact that his team could not
keep on winning," said Pres. Tener.
"The Giants are suffering from the re
action of their long winning streak. I
don't doubt that Mcti raw said harsh
things, but every friend of baseball will
realize the fiery temper of the man who
said that."
Manager McGraw could not be found
to-day to amplify his remarks, which he
made shortly after he left the Giants'
bench during the fifth inning of yester
day's game. Arthur Fletcher and Per-
ritt asserted that the New York team
played the best it knew how.
The statement accredited to McGraw
is as follows:
When Perrit wound np with a man
on first base, allowing ttie rnnncr to
steal second, 1 lost my patience and left
the bench. I have worked too hard this
year to stand around ami watch playing
like that, and I refuse to be connected
with it."
CLEANING UP
CASES EARLY
Supreme Courr Takes Five
Caledonia County Cases
on Briefs
$13.56 DAMAGES
TWO MORE WERE SET
TO HEEL OF DOCKET
Unusually Large Number of
Opinions Handed
Down
R.
ODDS FAVOR RED SOX.
In the Betting Offers Made in Boston Today.
Boston, Oct. 4. The distribution of re
served seat tickets for the local world's
series of baseball games between the
Brooklyn Nationals and the Red Sox,
which opens Saturday, liegan to-day. Al
mnjst. immediately after the receint. this
morning of notices of allotments, sue-jnied and judgment for the plaintiff af
In supreme court to-day five Caledonia
county cases were submitted on briefs
and two were set at the heel of the
locket, disposing of all cases up to those
from Rutland county. The cases sub
mitted on briefs follow: Bert W. Green
Lewis I. Laclair, trover; town of
Barnet vs. town of Norton, general as
sumpsit; Martin D. 1 urner vs. U. J.
Howard, ant.; Theresa M. Dionne, apt.,
vs. American Express Co.; W. L. John
son vs. Cass & Emerson.
Cases set at the heel of the docket
were I'ercy J). rsamierson vs. iwsum a.
Maine railroad, and Walter J. A Id rich
vs. Boston & Maine railroad.
Yesterday afternoon opinions were
iven in the following cases:
In re estate of David Robinson, Sarah
Hills, apt., judgment affirmed to be
certified to probate court, opinion by
Taylor, Bennington county.
Caledonia county Nelson & Wallace
vs. .Martin rt. liihson, judgment revereo
and plaintiff given verdict for .$4,413.30,
Taylor; Hattic M. Bancroft, admx., vs.
II. Cote, judgment for defendant re
versed ami cause remanded, Munson.
Chittenden county II. C. Rickefon vs.
Daniel and Elizabeth Lizotte, judgment
of $125.01 for plaintiff reversed and cause
remanded, Munson; Guy V . Bailey vs.
Frank C. Saunders et al, judgment? for
plaiutiff of .$771-40 and costs affirmed,
Taylor; William T. Whahn vs. rrank I ...
Saunders et al., judgment for plaintiff
of $771.40 affirmed, Taylor; Alfonso A.
W. Lamonda et al vs. Thomas Panzo,
judgment for plaintiff of $.W3 affirmed,
Powers; Western I nion lelegrapn to.
vs. Burlington Traction Co.. order of pub-
lie service commission affirmed and cause
remanded to allow commis-sion to hx
time in which order must be complied
with, Watson.
Essex county Toscj h anil Sarah La-
pointe vs. Ovid Sage and 1 homas Ja
nointe, verdict allowing plaintiffs the
right to premises set aside and cause re
manded, Powers; Allien K. neecner vs.
Vermont Mutual Fire Insurance to.,
judgment affirmed for plaintiff for dam
ages of $261. (17, Powers; Moses Morse vs.
Hannah Stoddard's estate, decree modi
fied and affirmed, Munson.
Franklin county W. M. Mayhew, apt.,
vs. L. H. Felton's estate, P. J. Farrell and
E. W. Foster, administrators, verdict for
plaintilT for damages of $5,835 affirmed,
Powers.
Lamoille county Hyde Park Lumber
Co. vs. B. A. Hunt et al. decree affirmed
and cause remanded, bill being dismissed.
Taylor; George E. White vs. Lizzie A.
White, judgment affirmed, Watson;
George E. White, adm.. vs. Lizsie A.
Wbite. affirmed and certified to probate
court, Watson; Lamoille County Savings
bank vs. H. W. Belden et al, decree af
firmed and altered to include cross bill,
Watson.
Orange county Louis Mazolini vs. C.
C. Gifford, judgment affirmed, but dam
ages allowed plaintiff reduced from $(550
to $550, Haselton; George Maidment and
Gertrude Maidment vs. David J. Frazier,
judgment affirmed for plaintilT to recover
$445 for fraud, Watson.
Orleans county Town of Lowell vs.
If. D. Stannard and town of Barton,
judgment for plaintiff to recover $4.
422.54 reversed and judgment of $1,315
with costs for plaintiff, Taylor; Fitzger
ald Land A Lumber Co. vs. Prouty &
Miller, petition for new trial affirmed,
Haselton.
Rutland county Vermont Marble Co.
vs. George P. Eastman and Percival W.
Clement, decree affirmed and cause re
manded. Watson; Angelo Gaudenzio vs. i
Elmer W. Bissell. judgment for the plain
tilT for one cent affirmed. Taylor; Salina
M. Raymond as administratrix of Fred
erick Raymond, deceased, vs. Rntlnnd
Railway, Light i Power Co., judgment
for 'plaintiff for $S.nifl affirmed, Watson.
Windham county Dana H. Oilman,
adm., vs. Hoosar
Awarded Harry H. Martin in Trespas
Suit Against George I. LeBarr.
The plaintiff, Harry H. Martin, secured
a verdict of $13.5fi yesterday afternoon
in Washington county court in his tres
pass suit against George I. LeBair.
Court took m recess at HI o'clock until 2
o'clock to allow the judges to attend su
preme court but the case was completed
during the afternoon and a jury drawn
in the case of Edgar Taft vs. Simeon
Swerdfeger.
The parties in the latter suit reside in
Marshfield and the amount involved i
$22, a sum which the plaintiff claims is
due him for use of a barn. The plaintiff
rested shortly after II) o'clock this fore
noon after three witnesses had testified,
Taft, his wife and Merrill Mears. At
torneys Laird and Marshall represent the
plaintiff and .1. Ward Carver the defend
ant. The jury is composed ns follows: Mil
ton Glines, C. C. Simonds, Neal Tassie,
T. B. Kendall, W. E. llayford, Alvah
Newhall, Alva Butler, E. A. Lamphere,
George Cooper, Howard Curtis, K. H.
Downer and ,1
BRISK RACES
BIG FEATURE
Of One of the Best Days thd
Washington Fair Asso
ciation Ever Had
CROWD OF ABOUT . J00
WAS ON GF fjNDS
K. ItinL'ham.
ADMITTED TO BAIL.
Pasquale Coia Entered Plea of Not Guil
ty to Serious Charge.
Arraigned on a charge of shooting with
intent to kill, Pasquale Coia of Brook
street entered a formal pica of not guilty
when brought before Magistrate H. W.
Scott in city court last Evening. The re
spondent appeared in court with his head
bandaged and his finger swaddled, the
middle finger on the right hand. He
looked pale and had suffered considerably
from loss of blood. Coia was discharged
from the City hospital yesterday morn
ing and spent the day at police head
quarters. He has retained -I. ward Car
ver for counsel and the case will be tried
in Washington county court, as the grav
ity of the charge puts the case beyond
the jurisdiction of city court.
Magistrate Scott admitted the re
spondent to bail in the sum of $5,000
and this morning friends of the man,
having raised the security over night,
obtained his release.
Automobiles Pr jminated,
Large Numb' jf Barre
Machines-There
WOOD WILLIAMS.
Marriage Took Place at a Montpelier
Residence Last Evening.
George Wood of 20 Richardson street,
this city, and Mrs. Sadie (Sheridan) Wil
liams of Montpelier were married at
the home of Mr and Mrs. J. R. Blackall,
2H Barre street, in the capital, last even
ing at 8 o'clock by Rev. Edgar Cross
land, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church in Barre. Near relatives and im
mediate, friends of the bride and groom
witnessed the ceremony.
Mrs. Wood has been employed for some
time as a compositor and proof reader in
the office of the Waterbury Record and
Mr. Wood is employed at Jones Bro.'s
granite plant. After a wedding trip
through Massachusetts, Rhode Island and
Connecticut, Mr. and Mrs. Wood will
make their home in this city.
MACKAY HUSE.
Barre Young People United in Marriage
This Morning.
At the I'niversalist parsonage on
Church street this morning at 0 o'clock,
Miss Ruth M. Huse, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Carl C. Huse of South Barre, and
George F. Mackay, son of City Clerk
James Mackav. were married by Rev. J.
B Reardon. Only members of the two
families were present. After the cere
mony Air. and .Mrs. siacKay leu on a
ten days wedding trip. The bride has
been engaged as a stenographer in the
granite purchasing office of H. H. Patch
and Mr. Mackay is employed as a clerk
in the loan department at the office of
the National Life Insurance Co. in Mont
pelier. They will reside at 4S Welling
ton street. No cards were issued.
CARRY FIGHT i0 VERMONT.
Minority Stockholders of Boston & Maine
Present Case.
Rutland. Oct. 4. ''Reorganization or
receivership is the continued tnreat or
the minority stockholders of the Boston 1 tinize.
& Jine railroad, according to a state
ment made by Atty. C. W. Crooker of
Boston, counsel for the Boston Minority
Stockholders' Protective association, in
an unsuccessful attempt to intervene in
the receivership ease of the Interconti
nental Rubber Co. against the railroad
here yesterday
Washington fair, with its perennial
claim on the affections and attention of
young and old, had its biggest day yes
terday. The secretary of the agriculture
al association which sponsors the last ex
hibit of its kind in tho Vermont country
side this year is authority for the state
ment that there were more than 2,700
admission tickets sold, a figure which in
dicates that the total attendance exceed
ed 3,000. Believe it or not, but it is the
truth, there was scarcely a buggy on tha
grounds. Just as manv of the old-timo
features of the rural exhibit are giving
way to new fashions in fairs, the auto
mobile predominated and barring tho
place of honor accorded the race horses,
the thoroughbred cattle, and plodding ox
en, our well known four-footed friends of
all species had only cramped quarters in
the general scheme of things at Washing
ton yesterday.
The Barre Board of Trade sent up a
big delegation in automobiles soon after
the noon hour, but outside patronage was
drawn by no means wholly from this
section. Orange county was pretty well
represented, it inu-t be admitted! even
though the Washington county folks
were so thick you couldn't see the grasj
in places. The Board of Trade member
and' their guests were properly tagged
with the same red banners that have pro
claimed the rehabilitated, rejuvenated
spirit of Bane's civic organization on
several better acquaintance tours thi
year and they made a fine showing, all
things considered. There were easily 250
motor vehicles on the association prem
ises when the day's doings were at their
height.
Floral hall Mas the cynosure for many
eyes and the exhibits probably exceeded
in size and quality anything that Wash- '
ington fair has known in years. The
women folks, those of them who wern
assigned to committees in charge of tho
several departments, put in a busy after
noon in placing the premiums and an-,
nouncements to the blue-ribbon winners.
The Orange County Farmers' association
has been teaching its members how t
choose and use the best seed, how to get
the bigest yields, how to prevent scab
and many other lessons. Its mission was
strikingly exemplified m a department)
presided over by County Agent E. H.
l.oveland. Orange is not the county of
kid-glove or roll-top desk farmers, for a,
lot of the agriculturists, eminent, promi
nent or prosperous were numbered among
the exhibitors. H. B. Hall, superintend
ent of the state nurseries in Burlington,
was in charge of a fine department de
voted entirely to the Vermont forestry
service. In it were many things that
fair-going folk, no doubt, had never seen
before. P. G. Saunders had a cage where
in slept, stalked, nosed and yawned a
litter of six young foxes. It was a touch
of Orange county at its wildest and even
the natives, some of them accustomed to
having bears, owls and polecats for their
nearest neighbors, looked askance at tha
animal show, thinking perhaps that Sir
Reynard's boys were only a painted met
amorphosis of the real thing.
Floral hall had everything but some of
the exhibits that fair patrons of the
country fair must perforce dread to scru-
1 here wen' no tirange county
artists to draw their inspiration from ft
barnyard revelry by midnight, and con
sequently the oil painting department,
which represents one of the traditional
shortcomings of the county fair instinct
as it has been developed in Vermont was
absolutely nil. More power to art's ne
gation at Washington fair!
.lust before Starter H. A. Rugg's sten-
lunnel A Wilmington ,..;,, r.J(1 .as i.,. tried out in the
railroad, judgment tor plaintill tor S-V 1 1 -nited States district court of Massa-
000 reverse and cause remanded: Wilson
TU. .. ..... . l.nl 1 :.. ,iK,'v4nrn hv
Judge Harland B. Howe. It was strong- voice called the driwT t. gether
lv intimated from the bench that this for the first heat ,n he 3:00 m mi e
order Mould continue, at least until t he cla.s. there was a meritorious cavalcade
.'Or cailie. I wrnu-PlA Pirna aim uakii
Bros. Garage vs. Frank A. Larrow. apt.,
and trustee, judgment for plaintiff for
$240.01 affirmed, Taylor.
Windsor county-Frank S. Hale. Ly
man F. Cabot and Edward R. Buck vs.
Windsor Savings Bank and Windsor
County Trust Co., motion by orators
overruled. Munson; W. J. Ackerman vs.
George A. French, motion to dismiss de-
CHICAGO FOOD PRICES UP.
Butter and Eggs Highest for This Sea
son Other Products Advanced.
Chicago, Oct. 4. What are character
ized as the highest prices ever known at
this season of the year for butter and
eggs at Chicago prevailed here yesterday,
according to reports from merchants. Ex
tras in creamery butter sold at from 38
to 40 cents a pound, as against 27 rents
year ago for the same grades. Eggs
cessful applicants began to appear at the
club lox offices at Fenway park to secure
their pasteboard.
The first indications of betting odds
available to-day were wagers offered here
at odds of ten to seven on Boston, but
no Brooklyn money appeared. It was
said the Red Sox would have light prac
tice to-day at the Braves field, where the
local games are to be played.
DEMOCRATS SPENT $57,352.
$50,000 of the Maine Fund Came From
the National Committee.
Augusta, Me., Oct. 4. An accounting
of the disbursement of .."0.000 received
from the Democratic national committee
was given yesterday in a statement filed
with the secretary of state bv William
f 1
Ichusetts, where the original suit was
brought.
The hearing attracted a number of
prominent attorneys to the court, includ
ing former State frvas. Edward H. Ieav
itt. who appears for the jilaintiff, W. B.
C. Stickney and former Atty. Gen. John
G. Sargent of Ludlow, counsel for the
defendant and receiver and former Atty.
Gen. Clark C. Fitts of Brattlehom. at
torney for the Brattleh.iro Trust Co.,
Judge J. M. Tvler and others, owners of j
'about $3.1.000 worth of stock and bonds i
firmed. Haselton
Washington county Emily K. Weed
vs. i.niim . Minn, m-i-ire 101 um iouuu, i f tie ril,iroad eomoanv
Taylor; William I. Richards vs. I onsoli- j (rookor told Judge Howe
dated Lighting o., judgment tor detenu- i
ant affirmed: Clara B. Lowe vs. Vermont!
..irA liul-oil tiii'etfior in nnp outfit. Seem
ingly at considerable peril, competent
looking men stuck inquisitive fingers into
the sleek sides of Jerseys. Stalwarts
kept the thoroughbreds in easy tow with
strong leashes and after all, the danger
to thelaual judge was slight. It was
a splendid showing of cattle, indeed, one
that would do credit to almost any ex
hibit of its kind in Vermont. Hens iiad
their day in court down by the floral hall
and the poultry wise could say scarcely
enough about the feathered members.
I'p in the center of the grounds, oxen
owners competed for a premium by
tl, t i matching their cnarges in a u"ns -
Savings bank, verdict for plaintiff for ! , ; j,, i n,.r thrown out of
$1 ,Mtf..-I affirmed (case commenced in j Massachusetts court ithout a prop.
!HWi, watson; iiyron i,. unur vs..
town of Calais, judgment for plaintiff for
$51.03 affirmed, Munson.
LIVESTOCK BURNED.
In Destruction of Good Farm Buildings
in Town of Barton.
Orleans, Oct. 4. The farm buildings
owned by C. E. Tierce located in the ton
of Barton, near the outlet of Willough
by lake, were totally destroyed bv tire
R. Pattangall, campaign manager of thelsoon after noon yesterday.
Democratic state committee. This
amount was used in addition to other
contributions amounting to $7-152.
One-fifth f the amount was sent to
three Lewiston members of the party for
use in Androscoggin county, according to
the statement, and f l.!4( wa rontribut
retailed around 37 cents a dozen, the led to the Progressive campaign commit
same classification selling a year ago at tee. The expense of the state headquar-
23-2 to Zi cents. ters was $3,S4S.
The tire was so well under wsy before
it was discovered that it was impossible
to remove the contents from the barn.
All the hay, grain, farming tools, two
calves, a horse, an automobile, and sever
al hogs were burned in the fire.
The loss is partially covered by in
surance. This is a great loss to the com
munity ss the set of farm buildings was
one of the best in this vicinity.
Peoide who profess to know some-
1 .i.: ..l a-.,ir.lnn,ti estimated that
l II I Tl riH'iu ..-,"! -
..;.,!,...! fivi or six tons, but
TV intimated that he would I the judges were
not hr the facts in the case until the and so the pu ling
hearing on the same points raised in tlit or t" t . .., bllt tn.
original case to be held in Maaehtictu t . 1 " . :. ..j ... i i.. Vi
on Oct. Hi. were heard.
SEN. PAGE OPTIMISTIC
jonlv pair that promised to have the big
nebble anything near the gate by night
fall was owned by W. M- Prescott, and
to his 1.50O pound pets went the arure
ribbon. A large
crowd witnessed the
And His Physician Says He Only Needs tugging.
. During a
lull in the racing, in a mo-
,. l.ie-n heats, the Barre Citizens
band, which furnished exceptionally good
nuiMC. throughout the afternoon, divided
attention with a track event that was
not scheduled. It came about when three
of the more active performers, chartering
an ox cart, started to add to the track
. "n j.i.,, it;, .. I ! r.,r,l for lieasts of burden, tor the
on Russell are with I-im in Rutland, reason that no one anticipated the anti
There is nothing organically wrong with i.limsx. n unceremonious dumping,
the senator, his physician ays. but he i j which followed the actual shattering of
good and his oi'timism undimmed. (Continued on cisUh JSfi
Ilvde Park. Vt. 4. Word has been r--
leeived from Senator Page, who i-. taking
' . .., - i. I 1 -:..l .1.,.
a rest cure ai me i!"-mi.m.
he is getting along lin-ly and expects
soon to go to Atlantic City tor a few-
weeks' ty
