"- '
he
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Local 'rains to-day; to-morrow partly
cloudy; moderate south winds.
Hlfheit temperature yesterday, 55; lowest, 41.
Detailed wmMwt, mall and marine report on page It.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 96.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1916. Copvr.Vrtf, Mil. 1V the " Printing rind PublUhlng Aisoclation.
ONE CENT
In ft rest er New York.
Jersey City ud Nrwark.
Klaenhere
TWO f'KNTfl.
Jstm.
ssaaatBBBaaaBaaBaaWaV ilWlaB
0. OSBORNE ON
H1SWAYT0N.Y.
Charles W. Wax, Sclf-Con-fessed
Lothario, Ih Coming
From Chicago.
DOl'BT OVEtt HIS IDENTITY
Frirndf) Congratulate Ac.vuHcd
Lawyer, but Tunzpr (lirla
See Fake!
T.,i. I. enlni? In he a his dav for
James W. Osborne. Rae Tauter and her I
iters, the Hlade brother and a host of
secondary characteni who have appeared
from time to time In .the "Oliver" On
borne drama.
Charles II. Wax. the man who con
fessed In Chicago that It win he and not
ttie prominent lawyer James who mad
loie to the little milliner, will arrive In
thlii city late thin afternoon and will be
taken before fulled States District At-,
Urney Snowden II. Marshall. x ,
In order to Insure hie title to the taw-,
4r) tame that envelops u. u. tne pris-
oner must be Identified not only
James Osborne sand his wife, but aUo
til Ian- partner, C.llbert D. Lamb, and
hit associate, J-ldin, n.l I). Wilcox, all of
liom say they the flitting I-othailo.
.- .1.1. 1
m una .
If he Is not reoojinlied as O. O. by
these witnesses lie must be. relegated to
tlie leglmtnt of repudiated Olivers they
have been cropping up In every titate J
thi hunt must be taken up again for the I
real culprit and the light which has been
Suing on between the Marshall ana
fr'Ude faction. In the Federal Building,
the Supreme Couit of the United States
and the House of Representatives will be
continued.
If lie lii accept H sn the original Oliver
he will be uted as a witness In the trials
fio In-J out of the breach of promise,
action brought by Rae Tamer against
). W. Ui borne.
Itae's .listers Dear It's "Oliver."
Itci;c and Dora Tanxer. slsttrs of the
principal, said last night that the photo
trspha of the Chicago prisoner as given
nut by the Federal officials here do not
tearnible the Oliver Osborne who visited
their slater In their home, llae was kept
eut of sight yesterday and no state
ment was issued by her.
.Most of the otners concerned In the (
mhup had some comment or other to
make. The most Jubilant of all was J.
W. Oslsiriie.
"Wax must be the man we want."
said Mr. Osborne, "because he knew the
Intimate details of the case so well. Di
rectly after lie was rrested I received
from a friend In Chicago, a lawyer, the
Itifnnnatlon that the prisoner had 'more
than newspaper familiarity with the I
"e."' 1 raising of money by licenses Imposed on Stamp a.OlMl.HOO to u.oimi.immi IIkus.
When asked whether the photographs the use of cars, rather than upon th Ho... r ,10 filing rr In Hi- de
tt the prisoner glveti out terdy In , machines themselves, was clearly within n,anTVor coM sU.rage eggs due to the
,.c .Miivv, -"'"" '""Mile males jionce powers, 10 compensate
.... .... ...v .
square notei anu assumed tne blame
for the escapade with Miss Tanxer, Mr.
Othorrie said the pictures were not good
enough for him to satisfy his mind on
mat point.
nitlcers Were "Most t'arefal.
....... . . . ... .
the authorities will send for me as "well
.. ,. ...,i ..i. .
i fe' .. nVJ -n v.e nZ, ,
Mr Osborne said he had not heard
from Oliver since he called upon him
prior to the trials.
"I am satisfied that he Is the man. The
... . .
7. 7,i i .. 1 i, t. . I .. m" 1
careful In the world. They wouldn't land
ii'in iur aiiyi.iing.
Ifh. I,-.! 1. .... ...., nu
,.,. f, nT li ". ;
rewaid for O. O.'s capture, posted with
f'.ipt. William M. Oftley of the local office
. . . . - . ., ,, rt .1
.'J.h.t.n.'.,!ar,mf"t 0'.Ju.,,lce:.M.r'
nALZH&i?mtM Me
t'?i!.i,.'.i i i . !.f .' 'l
Marshall had announced earlier In the
lay that It was his friend. Mr. Osborne,
ho had offered the reward,
'They talk about my pull with the Dl-
trlct Attorney's office." said Mr. Osborne
-ornfully. "hut the officials wouldn't I
eten let me say a word about the case.
Tlie didn't let me In on the confer-1
n',',"
Friends 1'niigralulate Osborne. ,
III this was sandwiched In between
lei' phone calls. Scores of his friends
railed him up yesterday and coiigrntu
laied him upon the outcome of the case.
"Fine!" he would exclaim In reply. "It
a mining out splendidly."
District Attorney Marshall, whose
vital Interest In the Tanxer case Is evi
denced by the fact that he has been at
tai keti In Congress for his conduct of
.-inserted his belief that the right man
h been caught at last.
'The Post Office Inspectors have done
i admirable piece of work, having
P'eced together a complete history of the
I'tMliig man from his birth In a little
Nc-w Voik State town up to his arrest
in i- nicRgo." i
Mr Marshall said that the prisoner
til be looked over by the various women
hi accuse O. O. of having swindled
hem out of their savings. The man ,
lth the many aliases will hate his
sliole pnt brought back to him when'
r. sCr jSH r,,4 Kaiser and the others. I
Ml.. Tanser to Nee Prlsoaer.
vi. - ., ., . .. ... was snoi ... ic .1ii.11 ...i.i ..nn .it.c, u.
linn too the fiuestlon whether Miss, . rataliy: Louis De Douw, his balllft.
muiX'.T1' a V.t, ma.'l,e ,in. """t was wounded fatally, and (leorge Rob
u.i W'Sr'n:h Prisoner as b, Juror , a ruse ,)Cfre tht Ju,lRe
"t;, V,N , 0"har"'- wh'cl' ri'io "P I" , w shot In the head here to-day by
'r trial for perjury, may be answered h , ,nmki wno , ,,, , mv ),,.
l - "'- lhn rOUr'" "
a? nm" ,r,.,,.Mw ld'n,'!J",l0 ot W
nt Oliver Osborne would have upon the
Mr. Marshall did ray that If th
Prisoners story Is substantiated by J,
Obhorno and others the crlirinal
'linrsoi growing out of the Tanser
t'leccli of promise suit will be prose
tut'd without delay.
The District Attorney gave out this
tdtgiam from Post Office Inspector
William O. Hwaln:
Have taken Into custody Charles
H. Wax, alias Oliver Osborne. Ilk
admits his Identity and agrees .to re
turn to New Yoik on my warrant to
morrow, Evidence found In his trunks
conclusive. Notify Chief Inspector
Cochran at Latham apartments.
Harold J. Spielberg, that attorney who
Induced Miss Tamer to wltaatraw her
Hetitltleatlon of J. W. Osborne as Oliver,
only to have her return to her original
Petition und accuse the attorney, ex
pleased his plaaaure at h new of the
at 1 tit In Chicago.
"Pome-body Is going to Jail. I wouM
). 1 ntvtr did think It wit 3. W.
CoattattMl fMsH JPMW
"TSZESXZm TO STAMPis.BOlJASQUITHWINSIN
- " -s- as am si. saw w-s - I
Woman Whose IIihImiikI Huh
Deed Won't Know Until ,
Sunt Vh h His Visit. I
it would not be right to tell the niiine
of the woman who. In going to (tot a
Christmas- present In the shape of the
iisb.ooo realdenoe at 26 Kant Highly-1
third street. Her husband want It to
be a complete surprise to her. But thnt
she Is to set It wan made certain yester
day when conlrnct for the sale of the
property waa signed In the oltlce of S.
Osgood Pell ft Co.. representing the own
ers, the hells of the lute Cot. Kdwic-.iti
On Christmas morning the deed will
be In a stocking hanging In front of nn,
apartment house fireplace that can Iim '
found easily by the Santa Claus who
! .7. 7 ..." .V. " . . ... . . I
wife considerable profits which he has I
maue supplying foreign ioernmenta ,
with food for their a-mles
Tlie house l one of the finest un the
upper Kast filde. It In of thre modes
and basement mid with Hk extensions
rovers the entire plot which frontn tfi
teei on i ne street anu extends PacK aw
.ll.,n....s.... ia. e . ..... I.-
uirianir Wl .vr.- irl. UI. rllti I 111 II i
rC V ' 1 . . l. "J- K,,"x, '
the house renovated and redecorated Inst
reoruary at an approximate cost of
190,000.
1J T If Am AT) I I 111 (J
JJ, J, nlUlUll LAllO
; UPHELD BY JUSTICES:
,.,.,.. ii v, . !
MllHt'lllC (.Olll'l If IlleS Mate
lln lll.eht in T.,- ISilw to
HllH ItllTlIt 10 1 (IX l III S t
l..t..t..
U'asiii.voton, Dec 4. The Supreme
Court In a decision tendered to-day
declared roi'jtltutlonol the New Jersey
automobile license laws snactrd In 1908.
The constitutionality had been attacked ,
by Frank J. Kane of New York, who
apiK-aled after being convicted of a vlo-
ia.on
, ,
Automohlllsts generally were Inter-
ested In the case, which presented for the
first time the question of a State's right
In mix rev. nil fur mulntnlnlllir roads
" " 1 At that hour there was unusual ac
hy Imposing a tax on motor car llccntes tvjly u through the egg xone and
and thi question whether automobile even In grocery stores throughout the
pleaaure touring Is Interstate commerce. '' The boss pitched In with the rcgu
r,Mi, v.- T....V .nn unevinn.. tm. '" egg candlers. for the stamping was
... .
pose a graduated license tax. on both
residents and nou-realdcnts. based upon
norse-power. in January isia, wie nu-
prtme Court upheld the Maryland slat-
ute as not burdensome on interstate '
commerce; but In the New Jersey case
the contention was made that the taxes
were not solely for administration costs e'jr they were branding. The "break
of regulation and registration of motor use" for the diy. It wa reimrted, was
traHic. as was the case In Maryland. conldf rable.
The New Jersey courts held that the
11 Ur , p ni-111 null 1r.11 nil iiikii tkj r
Kane attack.d the law as discriminatory
Upon the Interstate commerce lsue
- . .... ....,... i,.i.. ......
the New Jersey authorities held that
"commerce Is more than mere pleasure.'
and that Kune could not attuck the law
successfully, as he was convicted of vlo-
, m.i.rnuii;, ... " .. -w w -
I latlon while merely touring through Put-
erson to Delaware Water flap. Pa. The
a nroneVtv" .a''"1 'J IICl,He '"X
not a property tax.
. In answer to Kane's plea that exemp-
tlon of horse drawn vehicles Is uiiieasnu-.
able discrimination against nutomobll-
Ists, the State held that abnormal t ear
and tear on the toads makes the exemp-
nor
tlon reasonable and that non-residents
hsA-e no legal right to the flee ue of
aJ "
" "")
f '" fraof I0 Unrse-power or I.ss;
fS for 10 to Z& horse-power and fin for
more IIIUO .l'i imrwimnri, in, .tiie-i.'
can Automobile Association and the Na
more than SO horse-power. The Amerl-
lonal Automobile Chamber of Conuneice
were represented In the argument, he-,
7 ' . nnr,m. fm.ri here
,aTr thr Supreme Court here.
"
N, Y. MAN KILLED IN TEXAS.
w uortrr ,.. ,.,,,,
Platform of Mot Inn Trail..
Dm. Rio. Tex., Dee. . man. be.
Ileved to be lloyce N Westcott of 50
Church street. New York, was killed
about twenty miles from here to-day
when he fell from the platform of a
moving tialn. He boarded the train In
New Orleans, and said he was going to
California for his health.
Ill the office of C. II. McCarthy. Inc.,
on the eighteenth floor of 50 Chuich
street, It was said that Mr. Westcott
was well known thete, but was not
connected with the firm, lie was an
Independently well to do Importer nnd
had done some special work for the
firm. He was once connected wlt'i W.
R. Grace & Co.
So far as was known nt tlie niuce
his only living relative Is It. M. Hunter
of 1011 Chestnut street, rniiancipiiia.
Tngva SUIT: SHOOTS JUDGE.
lAlal'a OUAX ' "
..... .....
Thr"" Persons Hounded . I her
Lnter Court Hon in.'
IUnMo.sn.lnd.. Dec. 4, Judge Charles
K. Greeuwald of tho Buperlor Court here
. . . . 1.. ... .1..,.. ...n. U..A K...
'"inhale, supposedly unbalanced, was ,le
. '."1 ' ' ' .,,1. .-.in.. ..
feated In a damage suit against the
Standard OH Company twenty years aso
for an Injury to his arm. He approached
the Judge to-day as the latter, followed
i.v ih. bailiff and the Juror, were enter
ing the. court room. He asked the
Judge to help him renew his suit, hut
the Judge nurneci on, miiin men
opened fire. De Douvv and Bobbins were
shot when they went to the rescue. In
nlk Is under arrest.
aai-a. r.tirt HTrBs 4.000 Anartl.
Hlajh Cjr Hvversea 4,suii Awairii.
WMHIxatog, Dec. f. Contentions of
the Oreat Northern Railroad that Will-
lam M. Ward, a Minneapolis switchman
who died a few minutes after an acd-
gent, did not legally "live" to give his
admlnaitrator the right to sue for dam.
ages under the Kmployers Liability act,
war sustained to-day by the Supreme
Court, reversing a verdict of 14,500 tn
favor ot the switchman's parrnts.
essrtor t-sart Wkse. II a Mile.
mrnvwrnmrnimm win
rksae I il Cert.
STORAGE EGOS
Ninety Per Cent, of X. V. Deal-
ci'N Obey Commissioner
Dillon's Order.
......
2.000,000
NOT "KUKKiT
. '
Five Sttltf Food I.IIW Advlsel'H
,.,, ., , ., i
i ill lie-in M'ksioiis
TO-IIIOiTOW. '
'
..... , ... ...... , ....... I
fir.l.e. ..r..,t.t..l I..- I..I... . I. Dillon.
Commissioner of the Stale Depaitmenl I
of Foods and Markets, that each nnd 1
every egg of the lefilgerated variety,
after lealng Its original case shall lie The lescrve IhiiiiiI and the ndWsnry
s.amped with t.ie words "cold Mor..'"!:
In letters one-clghth of an Inch high
. ..,...i..i
'Tin iiiiu rnci'l ri.irimj. 11
..... .
.Heiv f" ...e.ml.le.1 emotions most '
a variety of scrambled emotions, moi
of them turbulent, in the egg traue. '
After the Commissioners Inspectors i
i returned from a trip around the nlwas
I Interesting egg district Mr. Dillon an-
pounced that he was happy to repoit
that nt least 90 ner cent, of the dealers
lm,l h,.,..h. -I ,, nnd had obeyed Ills
mandate. Those who failed, he ex
plained, were men who didn't have
' stamping facilities, hut he wa sure they
would get them.
Tlie order irave mahv wliolesuters and
. .. - . . I . i. ....... i.Bllb.i
' " .. . " J ' ' "7""
011 Friday lat. Some said H ey dldn t
!""ev' It a lal or practicable At
few complained to Mr, Dillon that the
extra labor of stamping each egg would
add considerably to the rot per dozen
by the time the consumer got them.
Ores I lrtllt In V.kk Zone.
Mr Dillon replied that he had sus
pended the same order hack In Septem-
i... i. -.1 .l gn .a.i It I llrailiegli
'sed ever, !,;;,; ,'o get
t0 n-or.
Many put off the task of typing their
cold storage eggs until tne msi minute
.to see If "the r.ld man." as the Com-
lnlwonrr , knriWn In the trade, woultln-t
change hl mind, but the sun came up
yesterday with no reports lo the con-,
. trary.
ilnne n the main HI tile eggs were
candled. Stationery stores were raided
for rubber stamps, home w;ere so con-
sirucieii inai mey iiuru m-i me ....n
part of the egg. Some didn't. It was
terribly nwkwnrd business ror some or
the hands and they "got so mad about
It that they frequently "squashed" the
HR(f m)(.ott !in, tHr reaons. Includ
iA. i. 1.1..1. ..ei. ,.f ih ,..i... .mi
" , "J ,t" e-. wer. .inm.,e.l as would
". ,,., lf , w.-r, 0rmal
i'.ate iieen the (ni-e tr tliese were nonnai
,i,, .,. .., ...... i ,1,. i,.i,,.
tnnip.-d u lot of them, perhaps i.POO.nnO
1)r .i.noo.DOn, and perhaps more, No-
10(,.. Mns rPporPd as to the exact count.
uooy lias rcporieo as in xne exaci
,t aKrfe It was some work.
"The effect of the stamping of each
l,,""vl,,lf1i!1l, ",W . r,0.rnK ."." t"01ln,nta
s oner Dion said, "will be that storag
eggs will no longer he retailed a-.fresh
rKKK at fancy fresh egg prices We nil
know that this has been done by drillers
who have not acted honestly toward
their custnmeis.
"Cold storage eggs, therefore, will be
sold at cold storage eK(r price., whhli Is
, ,,,,, A ,orag egg Is
perfectly good and nnlioily should be
afraid to buy It.
Mln.ulnle Mrlcllj Fresh.
"It Is title tli.it the stamping of all ie
filgeiulor eggs probably will Inciease
the demand for fre.h eggs, but only be.
cause the people who have lwen demand
ing fresh eggs and getting storage eggs
will continue to demand fresh eggs.
"I estimate that the additional cost of
stamping egg. will not be more than
one-quarter of a cent ler dozen, The
eggs have to be candled and the stamp
liui can be done with a tery slight extra
motion by the pel son who does the
candling "
Commissioner Dillon exn eased Hie
ir. ,n... i in- .-
would constitute b a technical l.e,p,e.
latlon of the law one tlnlatlon Tlieie-
fore an mi-dumped dnsen, he said, would
be twelve violations.
It follows that If
. esse nf lefrlrreralor rags escaned
stumper It would mean anil violation-.
Wmll. Krl.lay tl ,
an offender could he fined MOO tor e.,,h
tlolatlon. He will lodge romplnlrits
against offenders with the District At-
lorney charging them with a ml.de.
meanor
tlolatlon. He will lodge .omplnlnts
ileoige W. Perkins, chairman of Onv
Whitman's rommltter of five lo Investi
gate the high cost of foodstuffs and to
ircommend remedial legislation, an
nounced )esterday that the committee
will have Its Initial meeting at his office,
71 Ilroadwny, to-morrow morning nt 10
o'clock, Mr. Perkins said he had no
statement to make at this time.
Creation of the State commlt'ee
caused much favorable comment on tho
part of those who have taken courses In
the high cost or living.
Tho Governor has done n fine thing,
a very helpful thing,
Pful thing," said Coinmls -
ill llartl-ian of the Mayor's
.Velghts and Measutc. "It
sloner Joseph
Hureau of Weights and Measutc. "It
means an investigation tvitli real hones
of recommendations. C! cor go W. Per -
promoters of the egg boycott, which Is
now n week old, asserted the boycott Is
producing results In lessening the de
mand,
A Statowlde egg boycott Is scheduled
to go Into effect at 11:55 A. M. lo - mor -
ow- Tn D,an 01111 on men n,m wmen
(o wok wnrever ,ney ma. nt
that hour and ponder for the next five
minutes until the noon whistles blow
upon the high cost of living and the
1 necessity of action In order to reduce the
cogt.
Mayor Cornelius F. Hums nf Troy,
president of the New York State Con-
fersnce of Mayors, said last night that
the Mayors of thirteen cities have Issued
um. la n ...nil u-nn itniu ininira fiver .. ,. , n ....... ... .nii..i .. 1.1.
... , 1 1 , reas .HBl vj. unHrr, ..in... u.,.e nun
, ,. ., ,.. ... , ., . 1 uaies, j reuci. n.-.e.. uucvn .-.in am. t.... ralslnir fund, for the retl.r nf """' " -" - .... . , , . . peril 01 lie tu . . 1 1 tin 1.1. is, in.i pnsj.
Further llrd.i.llon In Prlfr, ' ' " ! V"" T.?'""? A.V .rllor . ... . .1 iHn ,,.,,.,,,,.,. , weie tepnrted to have tendered their ,..,. ...,.,, v-.it.. i-...... ....
The market teports showed a further Lun'rh- 'str r puree, hearts of cel. . " 1"I',"',1V Pnrnlygc Mr Lloyd 'K,w1Vnl,,l!IJ,.w.C,'kfl,'nnU,,v ,l"'v,t,,1' iretiy south of.' and so In ti,c .ear or. the
reduction of half n cent to a cent In ei v. cottage rlu-ese salad, hot rolls, hut- y cierard 123,000. (lemgo's Influence, which Mas never "i? "i . .... . n . ,.w ." 1 Rumanians there. It Is only twenty-flte
1 the wholesale pi Ico of virlnus grades of ter. Dutch apple cake, tea, T,H m,,ney will be taken back to grealer than at this niomem division iiad puiilici) nsuited tliein, but mie from Targuvistea tn the Prahovn
tcold storage eggs yesterday ns compared Dinner- - Soup. 10.1st loin of pork, -cran- (lermany by Mr. Qerard and will be "Delay miyev.m mm-lead to hh reslg. j:"'1''' (,'"nrt,'rs Valley .lltcMd at Plocscl. tlie great Ru-
wiiii inn 111 11. .rt ui oiiiuiiiu.ii nnu 11111 prrv .iiiiLtr. nnvt 1 iiiiiiuir. v it-i it 11 1.1 nvtvttturtn tiiunir ma numtiiiiti n'Ai..n ntiin'iii -im.x t ...-n iim. pimi .. . . ... . ni""i"n
proclamations culling, upon their oople
to aid lii the campaign. to reduce Ihe
coat of those foodstuffs which have gone
. ,
Ces Hatted a Tkww Ptgt,
OF OVERSPECULATION
"Danger That Unsecured
Largely Assumed," It Says Sees No Cause for
Fear in Rapidly Increasing Gold Imports.
Washington, Dec. I, Fur.ther Indica
tions that the Fedeiul Reserve IJotud
Is contemplating with some misgiving
tendency tp overinvestment ns a rc-
i suit of the exIiaorUliiary Influx of gold
!n"J demand of foreign (Joveinments for
loans were forthcoming to-d-iy In the
j ,.,,, Hrn.e
Uulletln.
i ii.- ..... .. ..
' """ " ""''" Puuucauoi.
,lC ,"' uuar.L refers to the liiriraslng
gold Importation is n subject of "pil-
maty Interest." li was discussed at
It"1 'a' 1 " llT""! J''" '' 1 ,V" Hi
i.. , i,-,ir-i n.,v. .,i.
who I ,ive :ieinlli'd In Wnshliigtoii,
pnrtatloiis of until In seitlement of our
......i. i,.i,...- .......i.u.i ,.w.,.r
...,n.r .
methods be .'lupin) ed to control the gold
,.,.., ,i,. ,. ..i P.
( and to preeul undue expansion
coidlinr to the fiiHrllii
a Due nrei-aullnii It as nractlcally
cleclded to lecoinmend to Congies tne
iimendmeut of the Keiler.il leserxe act
to movide lli.it the final steps specified
rt n taken early In l!17 Instead of
by November of that year, so that li.il-
'": with reserve agents should mm
ir ilKCIlie rnuiliu imrr i
to be counted as ipxrrve afler Vein nary .
r March. !!!".
I lie dangers wliicii nn- .oar.i " ' I
yr. " .T. i
forth In the following tatonient In the
IliiUelliu
li line ail lliemueis in nn- """"n
Willie nil membeis of the council
, .ported excellent business comlltlons in
(r ,,lMH,, Sate,ncnt- were made
(l.(t he(.p iiU 0)efr hnmc lmll,.alllin, ,,f
Increasing demand for t redlt facilities
ale to lie noted, as well as a tendency on
NEW UNDERSEA KING OF GREECE
BASE REPORTED'IN DANGER NOW
':sllill loll Stirred lV II 1 1! t
, ' .
Ol I -IlOIlt Al'tlVIIV III
Venezuelan Witters.
v. ;T,. v nee. I lienor! has'
readied olllclals here that a base for'
(jfrmall aUbmarlnes has been or is to be
.,..,,.., , Mr!.,,,rlln Island
established at Santa Marsuerlta island,
on me coasi m vencsuci.i
tlon lias attracted atteni
The Informa
attention because it
fits in with previous reports reacntng
naval elide- stating that German agents
hud made careful survey of the Islands Constantlne and his (Joxerntnfiit w -re ' a new ( internment with few cliauges ex
off the Venexuelan coast. deeply intolved and that the Allies will,"1" ,nP "ar ' ""K'"
Counsellor Polk of the State Depart- . "take Immediate measures to oMaln a ' War ('uui.cll if Three.
ment visited the various naval bureaus
connected with the movements ot Aineii-
n.n .mvi.l te.sels. and It was liiferr.il
re.i ... .o the nosition of
,u ..iVA , YnWlit . .eelilv Investigate
VP,,(. winch might p.ee.ii intesxig.iie
.i..i... i waters. Mr
.i; rM ids tlsits refeired to "inutlne
im.nrs" ltlsiuiderstood.however.th.it
i, .,., mfunnatlon how reliable Is not
disclosed that Herman. contemplated
..xtrrnllnK her IMio.H activities to waters
adjacent to tlie .Mexican ami ouin
American coasts.
Naval nitlcers say that Utile Is needed
for the establishment nf a P-boat base
beyond a supply of nil and provision.
The object rfenerill ascribed to pros
. . .. ...i in.. ....n. li. ,.rr ih.
pec lit t-'.eilliun
;,pp,y'lwV.lch tlie"Hi Itlsli "nav derives
fllllll Mexico.
HOW'S YOUR HEALTH TO-DAY?
If .... Ilo.t't Knott Cull on lr.arl
II. ml d Find Hut Free.
This Ih medical examination day on
the calendar of the Department oi
Health, which uiges every one to sub
nit himself to a ph,islclan for scrutiny.
Anv one who does not care to pay a
physician for .Humiliation may go to
any of the 1.10 dispensaries In the city
and lenru free of charge If an tiling Is
the matter with him.
Healthy peisons neglect such exami
nations too loii'i. the Hoard of Health
1 finds, and It holds up the cae of Its
; employees as prooi. . ne v
w(.r(. xalnl , Uc, years ago. and half
I nan .ntnlni-ees as oroor. The .onn
of mem wen- reuAiiniiiii-n uuuuk n.r.,
found In 1.'. per cent., defective
.tear. I'lirorretieii ........ n u.
1 1 ncnrreL-i.-ii ...-i.-tie u i.'ini
.... ...rAn,u ........
wr 1.. 17 ner cent.. Ininaiied nasal
rei lnc In 17 per cent., organic heart
's
' In 7 per cent., obesity in per cent..
, abnoimally high blood pressure m 10 per
, abnoimally high blood pressure In 10 per
cent.. Indigestion In 5 per cent., defective
teeth In 21 tier cent, und Insomnia In 2
per "e lit
per
J
Many of thes" defects are remediable,
having been discovered,
DIET SQUAD PICKS UP.
Members Hate One More Day to Oo
lit Test.
Ciiicai.o, Dec. 4. Wtth one mote day
... co In their two weeks test to prove
111 cent enough to feed ..ne person a
day here, every member except one of
the ttlot squad' shotted a gain lu weight
to-day. Tho one, Dr, A, J. Stokes, the
, f,uad heavyweight, had lost it quarter
pound from the 22 j pounds with which
,tRrted tho experiment. The net
.)ft ,tBrted tho cxiierlment. The net
,1L.roae In weight was 35 pounds,
1 To-morrow's meals will be:
sttle; cscalloned onion, btead. butter.
old fashioned lire pudding, teu,
Tho largest Individual gain was by
llenrv- Clehriiig. Who welched ldll.-,
pounds nt the start and now weighs 170.
1 .
BULGARIAN CONSUL RESIGNS.
Clayton llorkhlll Has Nerved Coun
try Here for Several Years.
It was announced yesterday that Clay
ton Itockhlll. honorary consul-general
for Dulgatlu, has resigned.
Mr, Itockhlll, who Is the senior mein-
h.e nf 111. firm nf llorkhlll Jt Vl.lnc
roinmtaalnn merchants, was appointed to
the post several years ago ny King Fei-
dlnand. Ills firm had extcnslvo coin
msrclal relations with Bulgarian ship
pers tutors in war.
)
I
Foreign Debts May Be Too)
I lie p:ul of xoiiie bunks towaid oter
investment or funds, such overime-j-
ment has apparently manifested Itscir
decidedly In connection with foreign
nbllgatloiiN of various kinds. ,
"There appears to be a danger Hut I
such unsecured foreign debts may
too largely assumed by American bank
to the detriment or tnelr nqum
, ,: . , .".. nveilnvest-.
lt"a SongTonUnuV u"nd '
..ul.l i.u li... I, altar
!;5,;;ur,tne,;ean?l
Hon iiiijUmous to mat oi suuuij
lelgn countries.
Special d.uiRer wouiu seem i
In the ol.sorptlon of securities whli.li ,
.........r i.. i.. ..t aeir-liniildutlm: nature,
,.,........... ....
lull w lllt'li llctUallV ale llul SO. Ill mi'- I
.onneclloii the advisory council an-.
nuunccil Itself as In entire accord with I
the views exiuessed by the board prior
to this meeting, suggesting ulloii and
iiuiiirriii mi In the use or tnose iin
which being open for a long period of
leiiewals lose their character a essen
tially self-liquidating transactions of
short maturity" .
"The average salaried man, the New
Vnrk renort continues, "is nuuii.n n
burdenj-ome to meet the adllu"",11'"'ll '
of such necessaries ns food.
footwear und coal. Merchants and large
i.vi.r nf mw muteilals are uncertain
I ,
and anxious annul maiuiiK ""!'" ""'
reconstruction of the raldnet takes
r.fi ..VVvT-- ata.btls.he.l term.-
Th r e, lural districts report un-
usual prospcilty as .1 result of the high
prices for crops. The Impetus Is reflected
in well stocked ranges and laiger acre
age for itaple crops.
From none of the twelve districts has
there cuine to the Federal Reserve Hoard
a single unfavorable s)inptom.
, ,., .
Allies Are Prepnrinp; to I ke ,
Drastie Steps Say Constan
tine Prepared Trap.
I.onpo.n-. Dee. 4.
-While King Constan-
Hue Is taking measures to make amend?
for the fighting between his troops slid
those of the Allies at Athens the Allies
are preparing to take strong action at
once, probably against the King.
i.oru iioneri wecu announreu in "i"
Iloufe of Commons to-day that King
radical solution of Hie dllhculty "
Acionllng to some special despatches
f .1.,. Athens corresDuridents filed on
s ,.,,.. ..,,..,.. tin., -n,,. 1
, . . ,
tcni the telesranli lines, the situation in
.teece is one Justifying Lord
Cecil's statement that It was
,.., .,-...,....' ,i nil,.
Robert
of "ex-
Thee despatches represent that last
week's lighting In Athens was the result
of "a deliberate trap, treacherously pre.
lulled by the King and the llovernmeut."
i'i.llOU troop being disposed around Hie
posltlnn which Vice. Admiral du Foiirnet
had pievlouslv notified the flreek !ov-
ernuiept he would occupy. These troops
,.., ,. .
".""'.. Tlie lalter fought until their am-
muuillon was exhausted and then
yielded, except a detachment of 100, who
trlcil to cut their way through. Only
thirty of tlie-e escaped,
According lo the sume accounts King1
Constantlne Is iiuletly mobllUInt Hid
iticnarliig for war against the Allies. In-
tending to cooperate with a section of
Field .Marshal von Mockensen's forces,
which Is expected at the Monastlr fro-it,
by attacking lien. Sarratl's flank,
It Is also stated that the (Irerks are
advancing on Piraeus.
The Htititdi i ioternnient has followed
Hie action of France and prohibited the
sailing of flreek slennieis from Ilrltlsli
to liteek poit. Tlie (Ireek Minister at
London and the (Ireek Consuls at Lou
don and Manchester have resigned, sa)
!... .I.u.. . ..id,. .... .,..mn- l,lA...ir.. .1......
i ....... - ..... ....
M,i.,,M ..-m, the nollev of their Klne
1 " , ft, ' A'' nh'Uf,
Issued
tihens sats
, . ,...,. , ,..
'" ...... .,,'
... .... . ... . ...
" ",u;r. "'e ouii n iiu.ei or ino
' it.i..ia.is am. soi-
dK'rs orr duty nre being disarmed. The
.epirture of the French detachment
, from the cj pi h -n.
" "i'"1 . ',, ""TJL, . ,u
; "'111 m . eiieiiic ..over.i.nem o nana
. six batteries to VIce-Admlral du
. bournet A committee of Ureek and
I French otllcers Is Investigating the rea-
I sons why clreek troops came to blows
wiiii i hp a 1 1 it firpniir iiirpri ortipr in
th.t miiinre"
The (lovenmicnt hut nnnmtnccd thnt
( t ho fullest piotei'tiou will be given to
r(;jl nf the nrrtP(, Venltel-
I lilt MiilHMItiin 111 tin- l-.llicilir ItlHl IflMl
1 Ists will ho irppectcd,
A rtesnatch to the flail., Mnll fro...
01 io. ui ner ..a.r ... .-.a.uruuy. says tiiat
. 1 1 0 ' V" '""""" bu'w m tne coiru
V"'11"1 llavn hanilc'' to the
$25,000 FOR GERMAN RELIEF.
.iter lean Committee Italara Fnml
for Wldotva it ...I tlrphnna,
The American Relief Conunlttce, which
Thi. committer will contlnu. m
fum,, ,v,ch may be sent to John D.
Ciinimlns. treasurer, 13 Park llnw
i,.e..,.e M.ivnr nitnrm 11 Xlefii.li... 1-
j chairman of the committee',
!
SQUADRON A TO RETURN.
Vett Vnrk Troops Hsajrvl (o He
4ent Howe In Few Days,
Washington, Dec. 4. Squadron A of
New York and Troop A, Maryland cav
airy, will return to their home stations
for muster out of the federal sertUu.
upon the nrrival of the Klfat Alabama
j Cavalry Regiment, ordered to th border
to-uay,
Hciuadroii A, New York cavalry. Ie at
McAller, and Troop A, Maryland cav
alry, la at Eigle.Pass.
CABINET CRISIS
Announces Royal Consent
to Reconstruction of tlie :
(loverninent.
) flf.-VXCJ K 1.X J'OJiK'V.
ill,' 1101SK
JM' 1,Hi llWI n,i
.
.. . . i
W III' ('OllllCll 3IU.V 4'IIISISt
om.v or As,niti.. lio.vi
n... ..i i i ...
""11.1 1 l.u n .
, . ... .. ,
i.u.MHiN, wee. 4. -kiiir in nrgr ou ui-.
. . t
proved of a re.on. unction of the UiltlIi
(tuwuinieiit, l,i,t the rrconstriicllon In-,
,0,VI m , , , H,,ry ,e.,t
.. . .
- " -
Premier AsiiulHi made this announce. .
ment to-day in the House of Commons, ,
hut he dlil not deny Hie'
slitement of Sir
.lames ueniy iMisiei. l,liTai inenioer
of the House, that all the MluMers
ha w handed their leslgnallons lo Mr.
Asmillli, Mr Asiiulth said:
desiri, to make It perfectly phi In o i
....
tlie lloue and to the country that what-
I'laco. H InioUes no departure In any
. I.ape from the
policy already announced
and pursued since the beginning of the
war. If any one encourage or enter
tains the Idcu tliHt there l liny question
of a change of policy I can assure him
lie l entirely mistaken."
Minister to t'..iitli.iir WurL,
The I'rcniler announced that for the i
present the Ministers would continue, to
perfoim their duties. ltepllug to n
question about .lie appointment of .1 food
dictator, ITemitr Asqulth said lie i
thuught all fiiestlntis us to personnel I
had better be deferred until the process
of reconstruction If this should occur ,
was completed.
At Mr Asqultli's suggestion, the House 1
adjourned until Thursday after complet
ing to-day's business. The first business
of Hie House on Thursday will be a vote
or credit for 100.000,000. which win
Kivc me inenio!rs opporiunuy lo uiscusi i
. any topic they wish. When members I
' suggested a longer adjournment Mr. As
I qulth made his statement. Tito motion .
i to adjourn until Thursday was passed I
j unanimously evctpt for the Nationalists.!
, The most cotiservatUe opinion In the ,
political clubs and parliamentary lobbies
Is that the worst phase of the C.ovcrn
ment crisis had passed and that the re
construction of the Cabinet would pro
ceed harmoniously. The I'ress Associa
tion says:
"Mr. Asqulth will remain Premier, an I
I. U li.H.u-,l l.a U.IH l.o ..l.lu I,. M..lln all
differences In cooperation with Mr. Ho
n.ir Law and Mr Lloyd (leorge nnd form
Furthermore, the l'res Aso la Hon
added, the lohbv now lu'lleves that Sir
""' -.""''. J"'" T "
"T..""' '"'""J1. V" lo.'"-'"t
'. ' . ' "s'1""1' -,lr """ilr -Mr'
Lot. M leorge.
So""' "r """ ,l,"'r coriesiondent as-
?'rl "" 1"'",'f xhnX ""' "'I""'"" I" l'-'
hopeful. I is nretl geuerall.t conceded
mat tlie resignations of all the Ministers
are In Pieniler Asqulth's hands and two
'"' tjuee of the political writers reinnl
persistent tumors Hut Mi Aiiilth liliu
w" leslan to-morrow
The Itnily .Veir-.t, the Ihnlii Cnoiili(e,
the Dully Kjiir. and the fluff), Mull
speak of stroinc disagreements ainont'
the meinhers of ihe Cabinet ninl Indleate
,,, ...III, I .. .. ,
proviMlllllei.lt Mi. l.lod'ii
et'lemeiit will
corge and bis
supporters aie tepreente, as di'iiuinl'tiK
inoie extensive alleiallnn In the Calil-
net man seemed pi.iiialile Sunday ulglit.
According to the nl) Mull they wsi,fi.iui tlie lloterument.
to rid It of Foielgn Seeretarv (ilev. Will-
lei lliiuclman, Piesldent of the K itnl nr
Trade; Reginald McKeuiia. Secretary
of the Kxchequii . Und Riibeii Ce, i;.
MliiMrr of War Tiade, and Mr Halfo'ir,
FUst Lord of the Admiral!). The enii-
II U-t of leports seems to show that Hi
trouble Is far from being solved T
Dully .rii-.tt sats. "eictythlng ie In no
melting pot. '
t .. i:ii'inenl nf It Ink.
The I'.u llaineut.il y cot lespnndent nf
tile Times s.l S .
"The crisis In the (lotel n nent icuiaius
preclsel) as stated ill the 7'uar.t este.
il.kv. Iletiuid llie Prime At 1iiIhI..i 'a l.ri.r
statement in tlie House of Commons
ninnriii MD ,li. ,'nilliilll It 1111A m. Siiml...
confirming the commuiiliii on Sunday
- - --n "...
night tlieie has been no dellnlle develop.
nlet
M. asiiuIHiM statement, with the
,rlv.. .llscussln, which followed, does,
l.nwever. polnl to certain elements nf
r""K' "T. "Ir "uggestion was to post-
risk, ills first suggestion w.ts tn post-
pone until Thursday the announcement
of Ihe lecoiihtiucted ilovirnnient.
Pressed by the Irish Nationalists, he evl-
dently was willing to put olT the original
niii. i no un ni m 1200.1 Mini no nr him
lis. nun i.ra-.'ttl'-l u it ran 1 1 . u ...rr....iii
clour thai proornHtlnatlon will only in-
l.nme the poputar temper anil tmnlw
tli, wfiote
government In general co.
lapse
",r """ Ml i.eorue.
. .Meanwniie .Mr. i.ioj.i ..corge lias 11 in
ills power to . in or mend, It Is entliely
In his hands. It Is understood he ml-
uric - , s. .... .0 ..u.os.us o. i-econ-
Hiruclioii which were accui-Htelv recorded
J 1 these columns )esterday. He had many
tokens of strong support, and the only
doubts heard were whether he went far'
enough, Certainly the popular feellnr.
Is all III favor of a drastic purge, und 1
inytliing line a conrrssiou or wiilltllng
that it was linpofslhle even to remain on
tl,Tm wlll the nl.l renlnie. In that case
11 ' understood mat iiounr i,aw nun
Lord Derby would also resign their tm.
su nns. 1110 inieuiiiins in outer rau
members of Ce C.overiimeiit are olwct.r..
I apparently evTii to themselves, but they
I ..... . .... . I
niSIIKO llie impeililliiK iniiniiuencn n. .v..-, i ....... ... ...,.- .-, .. .m......,., .- .
'x?s;r,vrpCox:e lX'T
new rulers through a general election, Maprip, via Paris, Dec I The .id. I Rumanian attempt at a llaiil.lng move
Ihe Manchester Oimrdimi In commenting , '' H article lo-doy on the subject ment south of Huchaiest.
on the Cab net situation sounds this
note of warning
"There are lu fact two, crises, for the
crisis In Ihe Ministry Is but a reflection
of the cilaln lu the wai. The cilsls
lit the war amounts to this That the
progress of events and siutc salon of hit
ter experiences luve at last brought home
i'
Coeffnunl ea Second Page.
TEN NEW CARDINALS
NAMED BY THE POPE
All Helong to the Entente
( 'tin n t ri ( 'onf Inns A nier
iemi Appointments.
Hons, Dec. I. For Hie first lluii! since
Hie war Pope Hencdlct to-day held se
nd consistory without n IJerninn or
Austrian Cnidlnal bring pieset.t. Car
dinal Fruewirth, Apostolic Delegate at
Munich, who received the red lint In n
public consistory lust Thursday, could
not participate In the one to-day.
l'ope Ut'iirdli't appeaird stronger ami
more energetic than ever us he dellvfird
in i.nnn li s ailocu on, in which svecni
emp.usls us 1.1.1 o,, hr passages
, glims it ml tin' bombardment of undc
lelideu towiw. Afterward lie created leu i
new Cardinals, all of them belonging ii'i
Hiiteute alll-d countries. They are;
Mgr. l.a l'ontalne, 1'atrlar.h of Venice.
.tigr. iionaio Muarieui, lorineriy .pos-1
I..H.. ... .,.. i.., in.i,..,, :
mil' I'nrmiu in i uiiiiiii.i mn i ..,'.i-..
of Havana and recently As-essoi to Hie
Holy See. j
Mgr. Dehourg. Archbishop of Heni.es. "
.Mr Du Hols. Aichblshop of Houen.
.igr. vutorio Aineueo nanuir.i oi .
nianclil. Major Domo of the Vatican
Mgr. llngglanl. secretary of the Holy
, c 0r'ne" .M'OSIOIIC ieiegiur
I to Mexico.
M.r A,rg0,i Archblshoi. of Dene-
vento.
Mgr. M inrln. Hlshop of Orciiolile.
Mgr. Marlnl. eWretai vf the Holy
Signature.
.Mgr. Olergl. ."ecrelary of the Council.
l'opo Henedict also continued the fol
lowing appointments previously made by
briefs The Very He v. (leorge Munde
lelu, its Archbishop of Chicago: tlie
Right Rev. Ferdinand llro-sart, Hlshop
of Covington : the Right Rev. Denis J.
Dougherty, Hlshop of Huffalo: the Right
(lev. John l.awler, Hlshop of Lead, So.
Dak.: the Right Rev. Jeremiah J. Ilarty,
Hlshop of Omaha , the Right Rev. I'lillip
it. McDevitt, Hlshop of llarrlsburg, and
i Hie Rieht Rev. l'atrlck II van. Hlshoii of
l'enilirulie, Ontario,
DR. VAN DYKE AND 2
OTHER ENVOYS QUIT
iMinMns to The II 11 j: lie, Siinn
and Colombia Hand In
Resignations.
Wamiiinoton, Dec t The flist ulg
nations from the diplomatic corps, which
are expected to be the forerunners of
others a a consequence of President
Wilson's reelection and the closing of his
first term, were announced to-day. Dr.
llenrv van Dyke, Minister to the Neth
erlands, ha resigned and probably wPl
be succeeded by John W. (iarrett of Hal
tlmoie, formerly Minister to Argentina.
Mi. Harntt l.i a Republican lie Is,
however, a jier.-onal friend of the Presl -
was former Minister to the
t,..,i i.oii.ii. ...,. i n. ,nnin.
,." ....
, " " flank was tuiind. a It liad been hoped lo
' HnKmlev m nrn lie Ui Hi. rvl,.iiiiri. iIit.mi..ii..i,l
1 -u the adteiil or the Wilson Adinlnlitra-
Hon
. The ieslgnallun of Th iddetis A
, Thiiinoi.. Minister In I 'nlninlila. nnd
William HoimIiio'i!,. .Minister to Slam,
, t nrle aniiiiinii ed. Mr. Thompson
was appoinieo in i;ij, i.is noine i in -
Austin, Tex Mr llotnlbionk wvs ap--
point.-ij in ll'l.'i He lite in Altiau.t.1
i He.
Dr van I)Ke Informed the P,esldeut
some mouths ur.n thai he did nut feel
lie could afford to rontluiKi at his post.
It Is well known heie that tlie expenses
Incurred by blin as Minister nt The
Hague hate been far In excess .if the
tltlUllcl.il leCoinpellSe he has' lecelted
II 1. ,,r,,l,.l.l.
that his leslgnatlon iii.iv biing again to
i the foie the lu.ideiiiute salailes which
'many feel the American diplomatic ten-
, I cent utiles le.-clve. it Is understood
; heie thai Dr. van Dke will return to
ins work at rrtnceinn
Dr. ti... Il,t Ur In Write,
j Tim llAfirr. via London. Dee 4 Dr
I Henry van Dyke permitted it lo become
known to-day that lie had it-signed as
Ameiican Minister to the Nelliet lamls,
Ills leasons are putely personal and be-
iflllui. 111, llit.il P. .1. l...llllin Itlu It....... ....
woik unhampeied Dr van Dyke salil
t..-d.iy that his irslgiiatinn was pre-
sented rally III September, hut Piesldent
Wllnn exin-rssed i eliKtance to acierit ll
,ini iii-niii it.it, i.'iita tin- ..iiui-i.-i t.iiniu
. . ... . . ...
meni io remain in nis p. hi. nr. van
I'yi.e .en ir.i .... . lie ns wiiiiiig ... stay
" "'"'y " "r "" ""M" '"
successor w as chosen and cnnll, ined. Dr.
' yKe a. h ed : .
i - . . -
' ii .ne , .,.- nr my
lesignatlon unlet duiing Hie electoral
campaign because I did not wish any
political slgiilil.aii.-e u. be given lo It.
It lias none. Tlie main leasnu was iiiyi"- ,V..nlv, '
wihii in iriuiii in tt 1 r
'full f rorilinii tn h.i v u hut 1 think und
feel,'
GET JOHNSTON'S RESIGNATION. 1
Colonel
Xi.iltilnu Ki.ottu of Oll.rrs-
(Irdrre.l lo llrott nsvlllr,
Sts Antonio. Tex ,
Dee 4 The res-
iKiiaiinu ... 1 n. .
(Inrilim Johnston,
Twelfth New Vo. k Infantry, reached
Hen. Funstnn to-day ami was forwarded
to Hie War Department for 111'tlon,
A report from McAllen, where the
Twelfth Is In r.inip, said Col. Johnston
had been otdered to lliownstille for tein -
poi . ) .. .
sain 11 leimu.o ... nnr.t.t io...a iniu
. 01 . 011ns 01 1 was 11, om n.ncei wno
'"'"
rJ j SPAIN URGED TO AID BELGIUM.
KmniTtT .mivw mx a Tn nrTnrmr
Wu.. I. Vrt, ......
or iieporiHiions ironi iieigium says it
is tne iiiuy or npain a ine nisi neutiai
Power In Kurope to raise her voice lu
favor of the tlctlins
"Spain," tlie newspaper adds, "has
untiling to fear from tleimaiiy, whose In
terests she is protecting, And further It
I Is for her to set an example to America
and lead Ainurlca to Join with her In
the defence of right and morality,"
I
TEUTONS CRUSH
ARMY BATTLING
FOR BUCHAREST
Jout Kumiinituis on Aixvs,
Openinjr Way to Direct
Attack on Capital.
CJTV NOW UN I) Kit
FJItKOFJXVADERa
iM'leiKlel'S Ol'I'eU tO Fill I
naeU on hiifircliii";
Girdle of Foi ls.
I- i I SJ I,' l OltDKHv:
PA KAN OF VRTORV
.1 unction of All Forces in
(real Drive Celebrated
in Berlin.
I.nXboN, Dec. 4. -TI10 defence o(
HitrliHtcM N I'l'itinbliiiK lioncath Tru
ton blown from all directions. The3
great battle of the Arp.es has been
won by troops of nil the Central
Powers, tlltrcted by (lernian strategy,
Herlln tinnotincrs. The Kaiser per
honally ordered Hint holla lie rung lo
day In Prussia nnd Alsace-Lorraine
In celebration of the victory,
flreat Ccrnian moitarM arc now
bombarding the city of Bucharest lt-
self from emplacements: eleven mfles
from the city, nrcor.llng to n despatch
from Berlin via Copenhagen. Orndlch-
1 tea, twelve miles from tho capital, has
fallen. A complete Junction has beejn
made of nil the Teuton armies In Ilu
mantii, und a solid crescent shaped lino
Is reaching forward to engulf the cap
ital. Itunianlau Plan Falls.
The whole plan of Russians: and It'J
manlans to ave Hucharest nnd stop the
Teuton onrush has been overthrown. Hei
lln announces and I'etrograd ndmlts.
l!en. Hertlielot hoped Hint south of tilt
clurest the Huuiaiilans, wUh Ritssluti
help, could outflank life troops which had
crossed tho D.tuuht- and throw them
batk, while tli I tin 1111 11 l.i r. first ainiv
1 northwest of llucliarest held hack the
I Teutons.
1 " iiiwHo-iiiiiiianian iiani.ing move.
nnt started out well, but tho Rumanian
I cut the railroad behind the Rumanians,
'and the latter had in retire faster than
tli-- had advanced. The Rumanian first
.,,v .lilc.n I.....U l.i- fr...,i..i
and 'its desttm tlon nearly completed bv
n attack lit ntlier i roups" from tanl and
iear
It iim. l.a n Lossen He.lTT.
In th.s difeat the I'.iinianlaiis lost ,noa
prisoners. 3.. eanunii, 3 locoinotltes and
oilier limit , war material nf all kind.,
which Is lur.ilcul.ihlf. Iterllu announces.
In Ihf last few days the Hum. ml. ins hit
list in ore than a hundred guns and 20,(190,
pilsoners
In the I'aipiiihlans the almost supe--
li"'""" Russian fTot I to break through
the inoitn'.alii wall, now in lis linn day. is
being pushed, but no real Imprrvdnit
seems lo have b.en nude upon the stul
born Teuton resistance A height Jut
Kiutli of .labloi.lea, near the pass of the.
same name, has been taken, Petrogritd
announces, hut llerlln says another cap
lured height Inns been retaken
According to tho (lerinau statement,
the Russians, worn mil by their trenien.
dolls ex. 'I Hons and hi aw losses, ate
slackening their attacks "At some places
only weie the Russians able to make
"''vaiices, and there they weie
"peedily ieptiNe.1. tlie statement says.
Turks .. OfTrnslte.
.n
s.iMiairrrs att.nKs i tne i
, , , .. , ...
oruoja ";" ' "" " ..... i..-
.- ' '-" V " " '"' -" "
I wi " a lerr nc assauu .ue-e ,ro. ps .e
. ft
! L'Lm oVir" beavt 1,,
'" "r . ,h. M.,iB1.r ireiirhe. ,n ine ...
to the attacK seven nines, orien in cin-e
formation. They weie , tilled b) utnioied
- -
. Anny llorthwOft
of Hucharest was
sweeping. The fiermans raptured tint
Rnmanlaii railroad Junrtloii of Tit ti. only
I thirty-five miles from Huehairst, siteeii-
ing the Kiimanians neyonu run upon nn
other flerman army.
I At the same time tlie luipmtant town
1 of Tergovlstea, nnilli of TH11 and In the
, foothills of the Transylvaiitnti Alps, was
I taken. Tergovlstea Is in the Rumanian
oil Acids nnd Its loss Ih also a haid blow
1 sentimentally to the Riiiiuinliius. It
was .be cnnlt.il nf Watlarhla in tliM .'.x.
I leenth century and has many historical
monuments,
j
Pruhnm 11llry tlrnn.-rd,
1 v this vlrlorv uortliwest 0f Itiu liaiest
1 ,., liermaiis hate made almost acute tho
The Riunani.in l.ne now fnims a d..n.
Keroxtf , , .ill. nt with its apex m the Pra-
nova t aney jus. no. .1 or ,-.iuam t.nrc
t salient h bioken tile Ru-'
, ini.ui..n hi. ..--i...-
An unolllclal despatch from I'litrogr.ul.
leniarklng that luckily the Itunianlau
. temmt In tbla anllenl nr., wllll In lnit.,1,
Trull... Force It tile it.
The Teuton, advancing north toward
Hui.iiaiest from Lake Ciela, southeast
of the cll, weio stiuck by the Russlam
nnd Rumanians and .'.impelled to retire
In disorder. Hlg gun emplacements had
been completed from which In bombard
the Bucharest fortifications, and these,
with guns of all calibres and much war
b if.,
