FINANCIAL EDITION
T." "t '
STRat
t-
NIGHT
EXTRA
itwnm
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOIi. IH. NO. 71
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1916
Constant, 1018, t tmrmtto l.sfdts couriar
PRICE ONE GENT
Ceoner
1
II
COPS REGARDED
STOTESBURY AS
MODEST FRIEND
Colonel Whiteley Didn't
Deny It When Somebody
Tried to Guess
CAPITALIST NOT IN DEAL
V- Police Ready to Believe It,
Thougn, snowing """
Liked Them
Bow Whitclcifa $8000 '
Swell Into $49f48
Colonel Soth II. Whttoley,
admitted "Insurance phil
anthropist," insured
nl.!!,1nlr.lili nnliccmCIl
by n "group aystcm" and
l!J nnVitw .
$8,000.00
paiu iwivii.j -
Hfa commission on the first
amounted to -1,000.00
Eight deaths a month
amonc JJolicomen mado
' Whlteloy's profits, after
deducting ?100 for the
Police uenencmry vssu
ciation, amount to...;..
Deducting the difference
between his commission
and tho p r o m 1 u m s
charged, Whiteley profit
ed monthly for six
months
In eleven months tho total
premiums wero $142,
933.00. Whiteley received
fifty per cent of this
200.00
3,200.00
amount a3 his commis
sion, nmounting to.
71.4GC.18
The police death claims
brought 127,6G7:98
The Police Beneficiary As-
' sociation retained 6,66.1.75
Whlteloy's profit 40,518.75
Edward T, .Stotesbury. "millionaire friend
bjf the cops," was regarded as tlio "philan
thropist" In the pollco Insurance business
between the Police ncncllclnry Association,
' the. Tension Actual" Llfo Insurance Com
- pany and Colonel Soth II. Whiteley until
the Colonel came along and claimed tho
tjionor,
A high city official nnld bo today.
' 8o xjjeverly did the Colonel work with the
directors of tho Police lleneflclary Assocla
s, -Hon that they, so, 1L seems, really thought
nihere was n'genuincffphllnnttiroplst who,
every time a policeman died, gnvo tho
association $100 to help It alone And who
would be so good to thc.cops but Edward T.
Stotesbury?
But now they know what's what, and
today Treasurer Hiram llortor, Jr., and
Stcretary John J. McCay said In. chorus:
"Never again. We're through with Colonel
Whiteley. No more philanthropists for us."
PLEASED BY ItEVEIATIONS
Then they went on to tell more calmly
that they wero very much pleased with the
revelations made yesterdny at tho Whiteley
conference with Insurance Commissioner
O'Nell; happy becauso all susQjclon had
been removed from the Pollco lleneflclary
Association, and fully cognizant of the
lesson contained In the experience.
Never again, they said once more.
We've had enough of philanthropy.
To associate Mr. Stotcsbury's name with
the mysterious philanthropist was natural
enough, for ho Is known all over the city
as the "friend of the cops." He likes them
and they l(ke him.
" When tho Whiteley Insurance scheme was
begun some one In the Police Beneficiary
, Association naked, "Who's the philanthro
pist?" As the story goes, the Colonel an
swered the question with an eloquent wave
of his hand, and some director guessed "it
nuist be Stotesbury," and thus the belief
grew.
There la an air of distinct relief about
City Hall today that no scandal has settled
there.
O'NEIL TO CONTINUE PHODE
State Insurance Commissioner O'Nell left
for Harrlsburg today after Issuing a state
rnnt that hla probe Into companies domi
nated by Wood was far from beng com
pleted. He aald he was highly pleased with
wha( he had learned about Wood's methods
while In this city.
It developed today that Whiteley had a
ten-year contract with the Pension Mutual
JIfe Insurance Company, among whose
policyholders are' many poor widows and
rted men, for Insuring members of the Po
lice Beneficiary Association,
Insurance men said! today that. but for
the disclosure made and "tho Pension Com.
Pny falling (nip Its present difficulties the
Ceatlnued o rate1 yflen, Colmnu Four
THE WEATHER
in i .1 .i.. $
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vkliillv Fair
Md someteftar colder tonight and Wed'
ntsday, uXth loiceit tonight about it rfe
wees; moderate louthtceat and icett
uttult.
USXOTII OK BAY
TOT a.m. I Moon rises... 4:13 a.m.
4:31 B.ra. I II Don aiiuthi- llfjinm
foa rlica. , .
Simstu
DE&AWARIS R1VEH TUIK CIIAKOKS
CHK8TNUT STREET
m?"-?! ,i:JJa-m- MV. water.. 635p.m.
liUwittr-lQS5 .ni. 1 H1U wt.r. . 10.1(1 5:
TEMI-KBATUUK AT UACH 110UK
0 101 111 121 II iSI 3l""4fS
62TE51 Ml Ml fi.1l fill fill I "
LOST AND FOUND
tWSaLBY-I,o.t, about 1.30 Monday atttrnoon
IDtinuber ), in veoun'i Unttury. stoElS
Jjer. WaaasuUMr's T Itaom. 3 Tins
Wf line st t'-Ullnum, I j wljli. itj;J 4
&sgbM3m
LEGISLATIVE ENACTMENTS URGED
UPON CONGRESS BY PRESIDENT
COMPLETION of railroad lc
y ing the recent demands of
legislation
rnilroad
basis,
In addition to tlm KnlntilUfimnnf
together with crcntion of a bonrd of experts to view tho law's operations,
tho President urges:
Enlargement of tho personnel of the Interstate Commerce Com
mission to meet Its nlrcady arduous duties and still furthor burdens
likely to be Imposed.
Amendments to Federal statutes to provide for compulsory arbi
tration of all labor disputes ns n means for protecting public industry.
Stipulation is mado that thero shall not be a striko or lockout before
tho merits of n enso arc debated.
Power to bo vested In tho Chief Executive to take over operation
of nil thc( railroads top military purposes In caso of war.
Laws providing a moro thorough and systematic regulation of tho
oxpendituro of money in elections, commonly known n3 tho corrupt practices
net,
Moro just and cnultablo laws governing Porto llico to satisfy tho grow
ing discontent and allay suspicions regarding the real nttltudo of the United
States toward Us people.
Freer and moro clastic regulation for foreign trade that will mako
possiblo combined effort without violating laws prohibiting monopolies:
this to facilitate tho "essential cnterpriso of building tip our export trade."
Tho President adds, "Wo should clear away legal obstacles and crcnte n
basis of undoubted law for such combination of trade interests."
Completion of legislation, already begun, providing vocational and in
dustrial education ns a means for development of country's growing industries.
LLOYD GEORGE
QUITS CABINET
Resignation in Asquith's
Hand, Stated on High
est Authority
ANNOUNCED TOMO RROW
LONDON, Dec. S. On the highest au
thority It was mado known this afternoon
that David Lloyd George had resigned from
tho Cabinet
Ills resignation was drafted and sent to
Tremler Asqulth Immediately aftor he re
ceived an Intimation that Asqulth was un
willing to ngreo to the plan for a war coun
cil of which tho Premier would not bo n
member. '
In announcing that Lloyd George had
decided to resign, tho Exchange Telegraph
Company added that formal announcement
of his severance of relations with tho Cabi
net would bo announced tomorrow.
England's "rccohs.tructlon" of her Gov
ernment, now In progress, must be taken
ns emphatic reiteration of Britain's de
termination' to flght tho war to a finish, In
all tho maze of discussion of what sort of
"reconstruction" was being framed this
fact stood out today,
The Cabinet crisis was precipitated' by
public demand voiced by the member of
tho Cabinet admittedly closest to the. pub
lic, David Lloyd George, for moro vigorous
conduct of the war; for more compact or
ganisation to direct England's energies
against Prtisslanlsm: for concentration of
responsibility and power.
It was conceded today that- out of the
"crisis" would come organization of a com
pact war council probably of not more
than five members to be given supreme
cdntrol In the direction of England's war
energies. 'Whether this would mean a
change In tho personnel of thb Cabinet or
simply designation. of certain members of
It to act as tho new council was a matter
of speculation.
London newspapers held the main diffi
culty In tho way of settlement of the matter
nroso through Premier Asquith's feeling
that, ns Prime Minister, ho should be chair
man of the new war council.
Seldom, If ever, has tho air been soJieav
Jly surcharged with political rumors. Vfljere
aro persistent reports that A. J. Uafyiur,
First Lord of the Admiralty; Viscount
Orey, tho Foreign Secretary I.Walter Run
clmari, president of the Board of Trade, and
Reginald McKenna, Chancellor of the Ex
chequer, will not bo In tho new cabinet.
The Times and Star In commenting upon
the situation say that tho question of mili
tary strategy played a considerable part In
bringing about the downfall of the old cab
inet. There nre two schools of strategists
In the government, one believing that the
war must bo fought out In the west, tho
other that It must be settled In the east.
Lloyd George supports the easterners. lie
believes that the Allies stand a better
chance of winning by sticking to the de
fensive In France and Flanders and start
ing a gigantic offensive simultaneously on
the eastern and Balkan fronts.
WOMEN UNFURL FLAG
AS PRESIDENT SPEAKS
Mrs. Lowenburg, of Philadel
phia, and Other Suffragists
Invade Congress
PAGE REMOVES BANNER
WASHINGTON", Dec. 6. The first dem
onstration la Congress by suffragists such
as "heckled" the British House of Commons
In the past occurred today while President
Wilson was reading his message to a Joint
Hesslon of the House andSenate.
Soon after the President had started
speaking a big yellow silk banner was un
furled from the House gallery by a group
of suffrage sympathisers. "It bore the white
Inscription:
"MR, PRESIDENT, WHAT WILL YOU
DO FOR WOMAN'S SUFFRAaEr
A page, dispatched hurrnedly to the gal
lery tore down the banner. The Presl.
dent went- on with the reading of his
sDeech. apparently giving ,no attention Uo
the tanner, thqugh It was directly In Xront
01 Mah CREATED A STIR
The appearance of the banner created
a decided stir among the Senators and
ilenresentatlvesvon the floor, and the crowd
SamrnW the Queries gasped la amase,
ment Foreign diplomats turned curious
eves upon the fluttering piece of alilr.
OfflcerB appeared Immediately In the gal
lery and stod, alongside the front, row In
which the women who unfurled the banner
were sitting They didn't make a sound
und were not ejected. Those who unfurled
the banner were Mr John Rogers, of New
York, chairman of the national advisory
committee of he Congressional union;
i7, wiiiiam Colt, of New York, representa
tive of rte council; Mr Motanjw IMyard
TTIIIAH fir SS 1 1MI t WIT 1 M I -f Vff WIMII S V. t i, " ' " r.. a. Ji rt A mi . . , 1 Z. 1 ?& r urn ...
mndd necessary by and begun follow-
employes for an eight-hour day wage
nt llin nltvtit.lmni. Inn' ntrnmlv rfTrclcd.
JOHN D. ARCHBOLD,
OIL MAGNATE, DIES
Head of Standard Oil Com
pany and Representative
of Rockefeller
CHAUFFEUR GAVE
BLOOD
t
JOHN D. ARCHBOLD
TARRYTOWN, N. V, Dec. G John D.
Archbold,-multimillionaire associate of John
D, Rockefeller and president of tho Stand
ard Oil Company of New Jersey, died nt
his home hero at 4 o'clock this morning.
Death followed an operation for appendi
citis performed November 23. Mr. Arch
bold was sixty-eight yenrs old.
Heroic efforts wero made to savo the oil
magnate's life. A week ago Otto Masgrr,
tho family chauffeur, gavo a quart of his
blood In nn effort to save his employer's
waning vitality. Mr. Archbold'it condition
was noticeably Improved after the trans
fusion, but Sunday It became worse, and he
sank steadily until this morning.
Archbold's body will rest In the family
mausoleum nt the north end of Sleepy Hol
low Cemetery, whero tho body of Mrs.
John V. Rockefeller was placed before be
ing taken to Cleveland.
With Archbold nt tho end were Mrs.
Archbold and their children. John F. Arch
bold, Mrs. Michael N. Van Ucurcn and Mrs.
Armar Saunderson, the latter o England.
Mrs. Archbold had about recovered from
the collapse suffered several days ago.
ARCHBOLD'S CAREER
John Dustln Archbold, president of the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, was
born In Leesburg, O, July 20, 1848.
His father was a Methodist preacher,
who died leaving hla family quite poor,
and at the age of twelvo young Archbold
began tils business career by lighting fires
In tho country schools and doing other odd
Jobs around tho town of Leesburg.
Every penny he could scrape together he
gave his mother to help support the house
hold, meanwhile studying Latin at night
with the village schoolmaster.
When oil was discovered In Pennsylvania
he was sixteen years old. He Joined the
first rush of fdventurers to the oil fields
and obtained a position as office boy with a
small oil firm In Tltusville.
His faculty for quickly grasping the
Continued on l'ase Fifteen, Column Five
AMBASSADOR GERARD V
OFF TO BERLIN POST
Said to Carry With Him Tammany's
Offer of the Mayoralty
Nomination
NEW YORIC. Deo. 5. James W. Gerard,
United States Ambassador to Germany,
returns to his post today ort the Scandinavian-American
liner Frederick VIII, and
with him be carries an offer of the New
York mayqraHy nomination in 1, ac
cording to reports frely circulated In po
lltlcal quarter
Tammany Hall. It Is said, has offered the
post to the Ambassador, but It will not bo
-pressed at this time because of possible
embarrassment to Mr. Gerard Jp his diplo
matic duties.
F. and M. Grandstand Burns Down
LANCASTER, Pa., Dec, 5. A irraad-
stana on me uuummj hiu oi Tasnua and
I MarsaaM wnuese was aeswqyea tody b I inwt law-
GUARD NATION'S
INDUSTRIES, IS
WILSON PLEA
President Delivers Mes
sage to Joint Con
gress. Session
LABOR LEGISLATION
PRINCIPAL THEME
Urges Completion of Enact
ments Affecting Prob
lem of Railroads
WOULD FORCE MEDIATION
Asks Also for Elastic Laws Per
mitting Combine for Ex
port Trndc
WASIIINOTON, Dec. &. President Wil
son, declaring the country "cannot and
should not consent to remain any longer
exposed to profound Industrial disturb
ances." nppenred before n, Joint session of
Congress today and appealed for Immediate
notion nn his program of "settlement and
regulation of difficulties" between the rail
roads and their trainmen.
Statement of tho need of such legislation
occupied the bulk of tho President's an
nual message tho shortest 0110 ho has de
livered. It recommended passage of the
provisions Included, but not ncted upon In
ills last special appeal last August. At that
I line n natlon-wldo strike necessitated con
gressional action.
In n lato addition to his messago tho
President urged the passage by Iho House
of the vocational and Industrial educational
muasures passed by tho Senate during tho
last session.
CROWDS ON HAND
The thrill and dramatic tension so notlcc
ablo In tho Presidents thrco previous visits
to tho Sixty-fourth Congress wero lacking
today. Crowds thronged tho Capitol, how
ever, and hours boforo tho session was
scheduled to ronveno all gallery entrances
were besieged with men and women en
deavoring to work their way past tho.
guards. Admission was by card only,
There wero no staggering national de
fense rocommendatlqns such as char
acterised the President's message a' year
ngo There was no nolo of war, such ns
threatened In tho seCmid mcJ!ttert''feportlnK
tlio dispatch to Oermany of a virtual ulti
matum following the Bussed sinking.
Nor was tho pressing need of speed and
iuiIi'U decision reflected In the request for
Continued on Tate Sli, Column To
CONGRESS ORDERS
HIGH PRICE PROBE
Inquiry in District of Co
lumbia Will Begin if Wil
son Signs Bill
EDMONDS WANTS EMBARGO
WASHINGTON, Dec. 5. Klrst congres
sional action toward relief from tho hlnh
cost of HvltiR was taken today, when, upon
a motion by Representative Keatlnir, of
Colorado, the Houso concurred In 11 Senate
amendment to his bill providing for an
Investigation of the cost of llvlne amonir
wage earners of the District of Columbia
Six thousand dollars Is appropriated for
tho Investigation.
The bill, having been passed by both
houses, now goes to President Wilson for
his signature.
IIM nY PHIl-ADKI.PHIAN
Representative CJeorgo W. Kdmonds, of
Philadelphia, Introduced a bill to direct tho
President to place an embargo on all ves
sels carrying grain from n United States
port when wheat-has reached 1.60 a liuah
el; oats, 60 cems rye. 1.!5: corn, 1 !
potatoes, Jl.55.
The bill was referred to the Commltteo
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce with
all the other embargo resolutions Intro
duced yesterday.
OTIIKR MATTKRS SIDKTIUCKKD
Lesser legislative questions were rele
gated to Insignificance, as the Insistent de
mand for relief from the threatened pro
hibitive food prices became apparent. Not
In recent years has a single Issuo so forced
Its way to the front at the opening of a
routine session of Congress. More than a
dozen measures designed to meet the situa
tion and reduce the prlcea of various food
products have already been Introduced and
scores of others are beln prepared. It is
clear that whatever course the Admlnlstra.
tlon may take It will be confronted with a
strenuous demand In both houses of Con
grass, for prlce-reluclng legislation.
House leaders sought in vain to allay the
agitation. Both Speaker Clark and Major
ity leader Kltchln said that Congress
would not have time to handle the problem,
aVd both doubted the wisdom of proposed
embargo legislation. The proponents of
legislative relief, however, counted on the
leadership and Influence of Representative
FlUgerald, of New York, chairman of the
powerful appropriations committee, who
has taken the Initiative In presenting bills
for embargoes and for regulation of prices.
Indicted for Fixing, Poultry Prices
NBW YORK. Dec. 5. Six .meflibeiw of
the Harlem-IJronx Uve Poultry Associa
tlln were Indicted by the Grand Jury today.
rsJiarged with violating the Donnelly anil-
TM UflUi Alters?? cttarmf
QUICK
MASKED ROBBERS ESCAPE WITH $5000 FROM BANK
MEMPHIS, Tom., Dec. 5. Two masked robbers entered the
Park Dank nntl Trust Company here todny, covered tlio cnsliler wttit
revolvers and forced him to turn over n snek coittnlnlng $5000. Tltcy
walked outside, got Into n waiting automobile ami escaped,
$2)000,000 COPPER COMPANY INCORPORATED
v DOVER, Del., Dec, 5. The Azurlte Copper Company, to acquire
oml develop mining lnuds, was Incorporated here today with n cnpltni
Mock of $2,COO,O0O, The In corporators nrc Oussle Suss, osc Slcg
clmnn nnd Charles E. Stlnson, New York city,
CRUDE OILS AT HIGHEST MARK SINCE 1895
PLTTSIlUnOII. Dec. C Pennsylvania crude oils today went tti tho blithest
prices since tho light betweon tho Htntuhml Oil Company anil lmlopomlcutn In 1893.
Tho Joseph Seep Agency nummnccd Increases In nil grades of from tlvo to llfVccn
cents per barrel.
U. S. ASKS AUSTRIA TO EXPLAIN CHEMUNG ATTACK
WASHINGTON, Dec., f. Tho I'nltoil S!atis Government has Inquired of tho
Austrian Government conconiliiR facts surroumllniT the torpedoing of tlio American
steamship Chemung by nn Austrian mitminrlno.
GERMAN CONSUL ABDUCTED BY VILLISTAS, IS REPORT
WASHINGTON. Dec. fi. Abduction of Gertnnn Consul VoroI, of Mutnmoros, by
bandits, naUl to bo Vllllstas, wis reported In Slato Department messages today. An
other messago reported that tho German Vlco Consul nt Chlhiinhua City nnd one
American had been killed.
MORE U. S. DIPLOMATS TO RESIGN POSTS
WASHINGTON. Dec. C. That other American diplomats will follow tho course
of Dr. Henry van Dyke, of The. Hug'ue, nnd tho Ministers to Colombia nnd Slam.
In resigning, has been reported to tho Ktnto Department. Secretary Uinslng de
clined, liowcvoi to name thoso ho hail heard planned to quit.
MGR. W. T. RUSSELL NAMED BISHOP OF CHARLESTON
RO.MH, Dec. C Tho lit, Rov. Monslgnor W. T. IJussoll, of tho Archdiocese of
Tlnltlmnre, has been appointed bishop of Charleston, 8. C. Announcement to this,
effect was mado at tho secret consistory by Pnpo Henodlct XV yesterday. .Tho.Jtev,
Jnmes Cnyle. remember of tho bishop's, council bf'Frth itlveVystifRS.', has beeii named
,n domestic prolate, with tho tltlo of montdanor.
POPE CONDEMNS CRIMES OF THE WAR ,
ItOMH, Dec. 5. In his ullQcutlfm nt tho secret consistory tho Popo said: "It
Is well to recall, asldo from tho laws of God, thnt even If tho laws of men wero
obeyed at present pence and prosperity would reign In Europe. We seo open cities
nnd defenseless Inhabitants exposed In aerial attacks and wo seo by sea nnd innd
nameless horrors. I cannot but deplore ngnln theso crimes nnd "condemn all tiniso
by whom they nro committed."
PORT'S EXPORTS SHOW $21,000,000 INCREASE
Kxporta from this port during tho month of November increased Jl' 1,000,000
over November, 191B, according to tho report of tho Commissioners of Navigation
made public today. Tho Value of the exports approximated $3S,000,000, nnd was duo
ehlelly to munition shlpinouts.
BOTANICAL EXPERT AIDS WATER TEST
Doctor Dixon's Health Department Inspectors aro continuing their tcsls of
Schuylkill River water today In tho company of Dr. Honry Kraemer, president of
tho Botanical Club of Philadelphia. At tho Invitation of Doctor Dixon, Doctor
Kraemer Is collecting samples of the algno and microscopic regulable organisms
which nro held responsible fur the bad tnsto of tho West Philadelphia wator supply.
Uotunlcul tests of theso growths will bo mado to determlno scientifically their effect
on. the drinking water.
INCREASE IN IER CAPITA CIRCULATION OF MONEY
WASHINGTON, Dec. 0. Tho per cuplta circulation of money on December 1
wus $11.73. This compares with 541.18 on Novombor 1.
NEW YORK STRENGTHENS ITS CRUSADE AGAINST "DOPE"
NKW yoitlv, Dec. G. Following u declaration by tho District Attorney's olllco
thnt thero nro i'00.000 slaves of drugs in New York fitatd, tho Whitney legislative
Investigating commltteo today added tu tho tentutlvo bill It Is preparing prohibitive
provisions that will make tho procuring of drugs harder than over. Dr. Charles F.
Stakes, medlclil director of tho board of Inebriates, states that thero aro 1,000,000
drug users In tho United Stutos, eighty por cent of whom nre heroin addicts.
SUIT BARES BUILDING OF "LAND GOING" MOTOR CRAFT
NKW YORK,' Dec. 5. Through a Supremo Court suit It became known today
that the Welln Marine Kipilpmcnt Company has secretly constructed thirty nrmored
"land-going" motor rruft, which, lashed to pontoon carriages, can rumble moro than
thlrty-soven miles an hour In the roughest country and can speed through shallow
water by means of propellers placed in tunnels within tho hulls. The boats wero
ordered by n Jopanese firm for sulo to Russia.
MANY DEALERS FACE PROSECUTION HERE
Dealers In many sections of Philadelphia aro facing prosecution for food law
violations. Forty warrant" tor aiiegeo
from the sale of cider containing sulphur
have been swprli out ny liODcrt ai. Dimmers, npecuu ngoni oi mo tjiate ualry nnd
it iy itoocrt m. simmers, i
gainst local retail dealers.
Food Comimsstqn, ai
O'NEIL BACKS COX IN SPEAKERSHIP CONTEST
The fight for the speakership of the noxt Stnto Houso of Representatives was
characterized today by J. Denny O'Nell, Stuto Insurance Commissioner and leader
of local option forces In l'onnsylvunia as a light between corporation greed, 'cor
rupt politics and all allied selfish Interests against human rights nnd the common
people and not n contest between two men. He urged that Bdwln It Cox be
chosen to tho olllce.
CREAM LAW VIOLATORS WILL BE PROSECUTED
HAHHISBURG, Dec' fi.Tho decision qf the 1nlted States Supreine Court,
upholding the. constitutionality of tho Pennsylvania cream act, establishing stijnd
aria of fats for the product, will affeet hundreds of case In this city, The Dairy
and Food Division now will proceed with proseoutlons which have been brought
in about twenty countlw, , ,
1111,1 ' ,' ' ' ' '
TEN THOUSAND STONEMEN TO, INVADE NEW YORK
Ten thousand Btonemen from Philadelphia will form, a sort cf missionary army
and go to New York Sunday. Thrao new lodge will be established In Brooklyn
and one In Manhattan. Twontyn upeeial trains havo been chajjtsrsd to tke th
tUoownett. t New 'XfSriP Bd turo The Itey, H, G ftoJto wHf-MBct'sjrrtaei
NEWS
, ., i.
vnnumms ui mo puro joon mw, ranging
dioxide to. tho sale of decayed muskrats.
GEORGE C. BOLDTV
HOTEL KING, DIES
Owner of Bellevuc-Strajt-
ford Amassed Millions
in Business
i
GAVE LIFE FOR HIS WORK
BcBftn in New York as Waiter, '''
Made Every Vcnturo ". '
Success
f2fS2i
GEORGE G. DOLDT
Two blocks from tho spot where he
Marled Ufa as a waiter, George C IJoldt,
tho most widely known hotel proprietor In
tho country, died today a imiUI-mlllon:ilrc
lloldt'H llfo romance may bo told la
three characteristics! Inltlutlve, optlnjlsm,
courage It was In the Waldorf Astprla
Hotel, New York city, ono of the greatest
monuments to his memory, thnt death earns,
this morning. It ended a, career which' '
many predicted was destined for oven
greater things. Tho death of Mr. Uoldt's
wife occurred In the same apartment sey.
crnl years ngo.
Mr, Iloldt virtually died In harness. He
bad been In poor health for several weeks,
due largely to the great rush of business.
There was no end of vast undertaking
ahead, While Mr. Uodt had great confi
dence n his assistants It required tlia
master hum! to direct and assemble . th
details. The many enterprises both In ho
tel, finance and really lines, required man
hours of the energetic proprietor's tlma,
He was at Ida desk aa a rule long befar
the average olllco clerk was out of bett,
Day grow Into night and night Into dify
again and 'found this man of Industry
still engrossed hi the problems before him."
wmc&)im&M&xmBS& I
NHOMSCTFUIj OF SBWf
Very timidly one of his faithful assistant
would remind him that It was time for
luncheon or dinner. Without looking up Sir.
Iloldt often told them to bring him a, bit
In the otllce. He didn't want any fuss about
such an ordinary matter as eating. WbtU
he was III It was often necessary to efoj
him In hla labors to administer medicines
at different- hours. )
But It H had been left to him the. rem
edies would never have been taken. It wp r t
usually one ' of hla loyal managers M,;
bustled Into the olllce, even at the rtigfT'f""" "
severe criticism, and made the "Industrious'
proprietor follow the doctor's advice.
The fact Jhitt piost of, his Plaps. wer.
crowned with suegessfnade work a pleasure
to Mr. Holdt. It has been -said that rwn
pf his emptoyes has ever seen hlro stttlasr
down Idly.
Mr. Woldt waa ill this city about six;
weeks ago. He appeared to 1)9 In th bet
of health and mapped odt ft number of
Httla improvements to be Installed at tfc
llellevue-Strattord, of which he was al
the owner-
News of his death today came as u-'i&at-ir ?
shock to those at the aeltevue. " -:
SAWVKY OF J500.000 S !
As far back as thirteen yeare ago Vnt
Boldt' annual salary for oonductiny jfc
Waldorf-Astoria. S$QQ,.00. '
Despite his strenuous nar. Mr, MMt .
had the reputation of the most amsfnv ,t
modatlns person, m New York. A ttsfei Jfc
oident mnm t' prova 4bia, u miihi
wjfisi? WW" " w mmm Wf vm-
ukHMw m-.wm wjffwi.1
t 3iJ-- ,
Muusica
.-r i- J a.si.ji. - k iiE-sstze -- -
. " .-
N
