l
1 METALPRICES Tfv A Yfft v WvXwX 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
1 NEW .YORK QUOTATIONS. II I I P I I I 1 I 17 I I I XI I 1 I I XI I I TEN PAGES
f 12.875; copper, $34.50, first quarter; m. I WEATHER Utah: Cloudy, With
'3 S32.5033.50, second quarter. f ' HHh r Raln Tonight or Wednesday; Warm-
J ; er Tonight In West Portion.
I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. s. : H
j j For.y.slxth Yr-No. 301. Prtc. Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 5, 1916. Entered n S.cond.Ola.s Matter at th. Pos.dfflce, Ogdc, Uh. I
1 1 Tremendous Battles are Raging on 1 1
Roads Leading to Rumanian Capital I
President Delivers
I His Opening Address
Before U. S. Congress
II House and Senate Stand and Cheer Chief Executive
I Democrats and Republicans Join in Dem-
I onstration Message Brief and Devoted
I Chiefly to Railroad Legislation.
!, Washington, Dec. 5. "When Presi
dent Wilson appeared before congress
at 1 o'clock this afternoon to deliver
his annual address, the Democrats
and many Republicans united in a
great demonstration to felicitate the
president upon his re-election.
William Jennings Bryan and most
of cabinet, occupying reserve places
: on the floor, led in the demonstra
: lion which was prolonged and noisy.
; In the gallieries Mrs. Wilson and worn
; en of the cabinet joined in the hand-
clapping. In the diplomatic galleries
representatives of many of the em
; bassies and legations, were interested
; spectators.
?! Both Sides Applaud.
Galleries were packed when the
president, escorted by the usual com
i mittee, walked briskly into the chain
? her and took his place at the clerk's
desk, manuscript in hand. Ho was
forced to wait while the demonstration
went on. Everybody rose' while the
' Democrats and some of the Republi
: cans joined in cheers and applause.
the chamber until Speaker Clark
j pounded for order.
The president smiled and bowed
: and as the demonstration subsided be-
gan the reading of his address.
r Suffragists Unfurl Banner.
i As he began reading a huge yellow
i banner bearing in black letters the
i words "Mr. President, what will you
do for woman suffrage?" was unfurled
over the edge of the gallery by some
suffrage invaders.
A page quickly jumped up and pulled
down the banner.
; The president referred at the outset
to his program of railroad legislation.
Senators and Representatives listened
attentively but without demonstration
as he referred to compulsory arbitra
tion and enlargement of the Interstate
' Commerce Commission.
Persons in the far galleries, com
; manding a view of the president, say
he looked up and smiled as the suf
frage banner fell to the floor. He
continued his reading without hesi
tation. About simultaneously with the un
' furling of the banner, a long state
ment regarding the incident was given
; out by the Congressional Union. It
' said that officials of the Union de
cided upon that method of calling tho
president's attention to suffrage be
cause tbey understood he had omitted
; reference to the issue in his address.
Banner Smuggled In.
The banner was smuggled into the
gallery In a handbag. Mrs. Abby
Scott Baker, of the Congressional
Union, explained the incident as V ex
pressive of the indigation that women
feel at the stupid and senseless oppo.
f sition to granting the right of self
government to one-half the people ot
the United States."
The suffragists represented the Con
gressional Union for women suffrage
: and weor headed by Miss Alice Paul,
the chairman. Members said the flag
; had been put up by Mrs. John Rogers
' of New York, Mrs. Florence Bayard
i Hllles or Wilmington, Delaware, Mrs.
William Colt of New York and Mrs.
) Anna Lowenberg of Philadelphia.
Mrs. Hilles is the daughter of former
;, United Slates Ambassador Bayard to
Great Britain.
I Women Join In Applause.
As tho president proceeded with
recommendations for other legislation,
the listening congress remained si
lent. When the president concluded,
; however, applause was renewed. The
; suffragists "who had dropped tho ban-
ner joined in it. The president fin
i ished speaking at 1:18 and left the
!) house chamber to confer with Speaker
Clark, Senator Stone and Reed and
Representative Igoe of Missouri, over
the probably appointment of Judge
I Kimbrough Stone, a son of Senator
' Stone, as United States judge for the
; eighth circuit court of appeals.
t
Washington, Dec. 5. President
Wilson's address at the opening of tho
session of congress today was wholly
( devoted to domestic subjects, princi
pally the problem of railwny legisla
! tion.
i In the hall of the house with sena
tors and representatives assembled in
1 Joint session. President Wilson in ac-
cordance with the custom he began at
Wt the opening of his term, read his ad
f dress from tho clerk's desk.
m Railroad Legislation Urged.
K The president not only renewed his
1 (recommendation lor legislation to pre-
K '"v
vent a nation-wide railway strike or
lockout before there has been oppor
tunity for investigation, but defended
it against the attack of organized la
bor as nothing arbitrary or unjust
and tho "justifiable safeguarding by
society of the necessary processes of
its very life."
Aside from recommendations for
the passage of the Porto Rico govern
ment bill, the corrupt practices bill
and the Webb bill to legalize Ameri
can collective selling agencies abroad,
the President's address was devoted
wholly to the railroad situation. The
only feature which had not been fore
cast was the elimination of the pro
posal that congress give explicit ap
proval to consideration by the inter
state commerce commission of an in
crease in freight rates to meet addi
tional expenditures by the railroads
caused by the operation of the Adam
son law.
Today, the President took the posi
tion that "the power of the interstate
commerce commission to grant an in-
r.rpn?P nf r.nfoe nn i V n irrnnn1 rnfoi-nnrl
to Is indisputably clear and a recom
mendation by the congress with re
gard to such a matter might seem to
draw in question the scope of the
commission's authority or its inclina
tion to do justice when there is no
reason to doubt either."
Immediate Action Urged.
The other recommendations on the
railroad situation made In a special
message during the last session,
which were not put into law were re
newed today. They include:
"Immediate provision for the en
largement and administrative reorgan
ization of the interstate commerce
commission along the lines embodied
in the bill recently passed by the
house of representatives and now
awaiting action by the senate; in or
der that the commission may be en
abled to deal with the many -great
and various duties now devolving up
on it with a promptness and thorough
ness which are, with its present con
stitution and means of action, prac
tically Impossible.
"An amendment of the existing fed
eral statute which provides for the
mediation, conciliation and arbitration
of such controversies as the present
by adding to it a provision that, in
case the methods of accommodation
now provided for should fail, a full
public investigation of the merits of
every such dispute shall be instituted
and completed before a strike or lock
out may lawfully be attempted.'
"The lodgment in the hands of the
executive of the power, in case of
military necessity, to -take control of
such portions of such rolling stock of
the railways of the country as may be
required for military use and to oper
ate them for military purposes, with
authority to draft Into tho military
service of the United States such train
crews and administrative officials as
the circumstances may require for
their safe and efficient use."
Compulsory Probe of Labor Disputes.
The renewed recommendation for
compulsory investigation of labor dis
putes on railways before strikes or
lockouts are allowed, which has arous
ed the opposition of tho railroad
brotherhoods, and of the American
Federation of Labor, was defended in
the President's message. Ho dec'fred
he would hesitate to recommend a
law which would force individual
workmen to continue in an employ
ment which they desired to leave, but
that no such principle was Involved
in tho suggestion that the operation
of the railways of tho country should
not be stopped by the concentrated
action of bodies or men until a public
investigation for the benefit of tho
public has been instituted.
"It is based upon tho very differ
ent principle," he continued, "that the
concentrated action of powerful bod
ies of men shall not be permitted to
stop the industrial processes of the
nation, at any rate beforo the nation
shajl have had an opportunity to ac
quaint itself with the merits of the
case between employe and employer,
time to form its opinion upon an im
partial statement of the merits and
, opportunity to consider all practicable
means of conciliation or arbitration. I
can see nothing in that proposition
but the justifiable safeguarding by so
ciety of tho necessary processes of its
very life. There is nothing arbitrary
or unjust In it unless it be arbitrarily
and unjustly done. It can and should
be done with a full and scrupulous re
gard for tho interests and liberties of
all concerned as well as for the per
manent interests of society itself."
Text of Speech.
"Gentlemen of the Congress In ful
filling at this time the duty laid upon
me by tho constitution of communicat- i
ing to you from time to time informa
tion of the state of the Unio'h and rec
ommending to your consideration such
legislative measures as may be judged
necessary and expedient I shall con
tinue the practice, which I hope has
been acceptable to you, of leaving to
(Continued on Page 10.)
FIERCE BAMS
Decisive Fight Raging at Doors
of Bucharest Violent
Struggle in Carpathians.
Berlin, Dec. 5. By wireless to Say
ville. The military critic of the Over
seas News Agency writes:
While a decisive battle is raging at
the doors of Bucharest, tho violent
struggle in the wooded Carpathians
and along the Transylvanian frontier
mountains, through which Russia
hopes to relievo the pressure on Ru
mania, continues along a line of more
than 300 kilometers (1SG miles). For
several days the Russians have been
launching attack, after attack, paying
with the heaviest sacrifices for small
local advantages. In the last few
days, German, Austro-Hungarian and
Turkish troops by means of counter
attacks have recaptured some posi
tions and taken several hundred pris
oners. Bloody Engagements.
"These engagements were extreme,
ly violent and sanguinary. Tho Rus- ,
slans have been driven rGclclesslv. I
without taking account of losses,
against the machine gun and artillery
fire of their opponents. But tho
Transylvanian mountain front stands
unshaken and the strong Russian
pressure has not had the slightest in.
fluence on the military situation in
Wallachia.
"The operations in Wallachia thus
far have taken the course mapped out
by the German command. All of west
ern Rumania as far as the Argechu
river already is firmly in the hands
of the central powers. The large area
of wheat land, rich stocks of cattle
and other captured supplies, together
with the large resources of the soil,
increase the strength of the central
powers in such permanent fnshion :
that the blockade of the entente which
In any event had no real chances of
success, has now been completely frus
trated." on
OOllff HtS ixss
Total in Present War 15,100,
000 Small Nations Suffer
Greatest Proportion.
Berlin, Dec. 5. By wireless to Say
ville. The total losses of tho entente
in the present war have been 15,100,
000, nccording to figures given out
by the Association for Research into
the Social Consequences of the War,
of Copenhagen, as quoted In an Over
seas News 'Agency statement today.
"Of this number," says the news
asuuuj tuuiiiia.ry oi me report, ureal
Britain has lost 1,200,000 men; Rus
sia 8,500,000;. France, 3,700,000; Italy
800,000; Serbia 480,000; Belgium 220,
000 and Rumania 200,000.
"These figures admit of curious
conclusion. Thus, the losses of Ser
bia, Belgium and Rumania are three
quarters those of the British and as
In the Rumanian losses, only those
of the first two months are Included,
these three small nations have in fact
made sacrifices as large as those of
the great British empire. Italy has
suffered already losses equal to two
thirds of those of the British, although
she entered' the war ten months later
than Great Britain. The French losses
are three times as great as the Brit
ish and form almost one-quarter of
tho total for the whole entente, while
the Russian losses are seven times
greater than the British, which com
prise only S per cent of the total, al
though estimates of the losses of Cana
dians, Australians, New Zealanders,
South Africans, East Indians and oth.
ers and others are included.
nn
HOTEL PROPRIEOR DIES.
New York, Dec. 5. George C. Boldt,
proprietor of tho Waldorf-Astoria ho
tel. died of heart disease here today
In his suite at the hotel.
nn
The smallest known 'fftrd is a Cen
tral American hummingbird that Is
about the size of a bluobottle fly. .
ARCHBOLD DIES AT
NEW JERSEY HOME
: President of Standard Oil Com
pany Following Serious
Operation for Ap
pendicitis. NATIVE OF OHIO
Associated With Rockefeller
Interests Since 1875 and
Oil Refiner in Early Life.
Tarrytown, N. Y Dec. 5. A noted
figure In the world's petroleum indus
try was removed today when John
Dustin Archbold, capitalist, president
of the Standard Oil company of New
JJersey and officer or director in varl
ous other enterprises, died at hi3 homo
heer after a two weeks' illness subse
quent to an operation for appendi
citis. Death came at 4 o'clock this
morning. -For some hours the patient
had been unable to take proper nour
ishment and members of his family
recognized that the end was near.
Funeral services will be held here
Thursday. While the services are tak
ing place, Tarrytown's' industries will
suspend operation.
Mr. Archbold is survived by his
widow, a son, John F. Archbold, and
a daughter, Mrs. Michael Van Buren.
Mr. Archbold was a native of Ohio
and was sixty-eight years old. In early
life he was an oil refiner and buver
in western Pennsylvania and in 1S75
he became associated with the Rocke
feller interests, a connection that con
tinued until his death. He became
president of the Standard Oil company
of -New Jersey shortly after the dis
solution of the "trust," was ordered by
the United States supreme court.
I mi Less Than Two Weeks.
Mr. Archbold's death followed an
illness of less than two weeks. He
was operated upon for appendicitis
November 23 and for a time seemed
to rail'. Later he suffered a relapse
and the five physicians attending him
decided that blood transfusion must
be resorted to.
Mr. Archbold's chauffeur colun.
teered as the subject of this opera
tion and transfusion was performed j
on the afternoon of November 29 by
Dr . Edward Lyndemann and Dr.
George E. Brewer.
Following the operation Mr. Arch
I bold showed increased strength and
his physicians and members of his
family appeared optimistic that the
improvement would be permanent.
His simple habits of life and rugged
constitution buoyed up the hope that
he would survive.
Member of First "Trust."
John D. Archbold was almost as
closoly Identified with the establishing
of the Standard Oil company as John
D. Rockefeller himself. On the first
nine trustees of the "trust" formed
in 1SS2 ho alone remained in this
capacity until Its dissolution in 1911
at the order of the United States
supreme court and it was he who was
named to engineer the dissolution
after which ho becamo president and
director of the Standard Oil company
of New Jersey. He was the -most ag
gressive fighter in the oil combine
and invariably represented the Stand
ard Oil on the witness stand in numer
ous hearings in connection with the
government's suit to dissolve it.
Archbold Bitterly Attacked.
This publicity was still further
heightened by the publication of a
scoro or more oT letters from Mr.
Archbold to Joseph B. Foraker, then
senator from Ohio. Representative
Joseph C. Sibley of Pennsylvania and
other statesmen showing that large
sums of money had been distributed
for the alleged purpose of influencing
m,uiau' lusjsiauon at Washington.
Mr. Archbold considered them as at
torney fees. The publication of these
letters exposed Mr, Archbold to attack
from every quarter.
John Dustin Archbold was born
at Leesburg, Ohio, July 2G, 1S4S, and
was working in a country store at
Salem, Ohio, when ho heard of tho
wonderful oil regions in western Penn.
sylvania where men were becoming
rich overnight. In 1864 he went to
the oil fields and became a refiner
and buyer at TItusville. He became
the agent of a .new company, the Acme
company, which proved to be an offset
of the Rockefeller interests and from
that time in 1875, until his death,
he was an associate of the Rocke
felers. Leaves Immense Fortune.
It has been estimated that Mr.
Archbold's fortune, made almost en
tirely in oil and Its by-products was
nearly $100,000,000. Ho was one ot
the best informed men in the details
of the oil business in all of ita
branches and, according to his own
statement, held that all of the prac
tices of the Standard Oil company
were honorable and, he believed in,
conformity to the law.
"I stand unquestionably," he said,
in defending the trust idea, "for co.
operative evolution. I bellove that
the largo corporations of tho present
day represent more nearly this co-operation
than any svstem yot undertaken."
TEUTONS PURSUE
RUMANIAN ARMY
Defeated Troops Before Bu
charest Fleeing Before Vic
torious Enemy Rus
sians Repulsed.
VIOLENT ENGAGEMENTS
Von Mackensen Breaks Re
sistance of Hostile Rear
Guards Bloody Losses
Inflicted.
Berlin, Dec. 5, by wireless to Say
villc. "In western Rumania the Teu
tonic troops are pursuing the defeat
ed Rumanians on the front before
Bucharest They are across the rail
road leading from Bucharest leading
to Tergovistea. In the Danube low
lands Russian attacks were repulsed
with heavy losses and the number of
prisoners taken has been increased to
12,500.
"Front of Archduke Joseph: Renew
ed Russian attacks -on Capul 'and
northeast of Dorna Watra and in the
Putna, Trotus and Uzul valleys were
without the slightest successes. Sim
ultaneously German and Austro-Hungarian
troops recaptured by storm
and hand to hand fighting a height
position lost during the preceding
fighting which was an important one
for us. After these engagements, of
which some were very violent, there
remained in our hands on the Verch
debry, south of Tartar pass, more
than 100 men and fiyo machine guns
and on Mount Nemira, in the northern
Oltuz valley, 350 prisoners and eight
monhWin mino
Von Mackencen Victorious.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen: Tho Ninth Army during
the pursuit of the enemy broke the
resistance of the hostile rear guards
and crossed the Bucharest-Tergovis-tea-Petrosita
railroad to the eastward.
"The Danube Arms', after the vic
tory gained on the lower Agechu
against numerically superior forces,
followed the retreating enemy in this
sector. In the victory mentioned, the
217th Infantry Division took an espe
cially glorious part.
"The left wing of the Danube Army
fought its way beyond this setcor. The
easterly wing in the Danube lowlands
sanguinarily repulsed Russian attacks.
"The number of prisoners captured
yesterday has increased to 12,500.
The number captured by the Ninth
Army a further 2000 and to that of
the Danube Army 2500 men have been
added. The prisoners last mentioned
belonged to twenty-two infantry and
six different artillery regiments.
"In Dobrudja there have been no
major engagements." ,
ESTABLISH NEW -BALI
COMMISSION
Baseball Moguls to Meet to
Meet Tomorrow at 8 o'clock
in Hotel Utah.
BEAVERS MAY NOT GO
.alfr T nlro ar-trl Qan P"f oniiBirt In
Support Increase in Pay
Roll How About Maier?
Boston, Dec. 4. The committee
which will represent tho minor leagues
of the country in requesting tho Na
tional and American leagues for sup
port in the establishment of a new
haseball commission was announced
today by T. H. Murnane, vice presi
dent of the National Association ot
Professional Leagues, as follows: J.
F. Ewing of San Francisco, Thomas
Chevington, president of the American
association, and Edward Barrow, presi
dent of the International league.
They will meet the National league
club owners of their annual meeting
In New York and later meet Ameri
can league representatives at Chicago.
The commission they will proposo
was indorsed at the recent convene
tion at New Orleans. It will include
two members from the major leagues,
two from the minor league and a
chairman chosen by them, and would
act as a further court of appeals In
cases affecting the minor leagues.
nn
WELLING GIVES WHITNEY K. O.
Kenosha, Wis., Dec. 4, JoJo Wei
ling of Chicago won from Frankle
Whitney of Cedar Rapid, la., by a
knockout in the fifth round of a ten
round bout here tonight. They are
lightweights.
DOOM OF BUCHAREST I
SEALED AND TEUTONS I
GOING ON UNCHECKED I
Rumanians Unable to Stop Advance Serbians I
Follow Up Victory on Macedonian Front I
Bulgars Retreating Northward. I
Petrograd, Dec. 5, via London, 2: 1 0 p. m. The Ruman-
ians have been unsuccessful in attempts to check the Teutonic
forces on the roads to Ploechti and Bucharest, says the war of
fice in today's official statement.
i The fate of Bucharest apparently is
sealed. Tho Teutonic advanco towards
it is going on unchecked, Rumanian at
tempts to stop it having been unsuc
cessful. This announcement is made
in the Russian official statement to
day. On the Macedonian front the Serbi
ans are following up their victory in
the Grunishte region and have cap
tured the village of Stravina, three
miles north of Grunishte, according tb
a Serbian official statement. The Bul
garians are reported retreating north
ward, apparently having evacuated
and set on fire the village of Zovik,
two miles northwest of Stravina. The
French and Serbians are annuonced
b3r Paris to have made progress also
within the bend of the Cerna, further
west, north of the village of Paralovo.
A Copenhagen research Bociety is
rfnnrtrrl in n TCovlfn di'cnnfph nc ocM.
mating the total losses of the entente
powers during the war at 15,100, 00C
men, of which the Russians lost 8,500,'
000 men, the French 3,700,000, the Brit
ish 1,200,000 and the Italians 800,000,
the smaller nations making up the re
mainder. British Troops Repulsed.
Berlin, Dec. 5, by wireless to Say
ville. British troops attempted to
make an advance east of the Albert
Warlencourt road yesterday but were
repulsed, says today's official state
ment from tho western front.
The stalenient reads:
"Western front During a fog in the
morning after a brief and heavy artil
lery bombardment, British detach
ments advanced east of the Albert
Warlencourt road. They were re
pulsed by our fire. In the afternoon,
the day growing brighter, the artillery
duel, on the entire Somme front be
came heavier. During the night also
the firing was livelier than previ
ously." German Raid Fails.
London, Dec. 5, 12:30 p. m. The
following report from the Franco-Belgian
front was given out officially to
dajr: "South of Loos after a heavy bom
bardment, the enemy in large numbers
undertook a raid which completely
failed. Elsewhere there is nothing to
rep'ort."
French Aviator Successful.
Paris, Dec. 5, Noon. Sub-lieutenant
Nungesser shot down two airplanes
within three hours yesterday, the war
office announces. This brings up to
twenty the number of airplanes
brought to earth by this aviator.
There were no developments of im
portance on the French front last
night, the statement says.
The communication follows:
"The night passed quietly on the
front in France.
"During tne aay oi uecemDer i sud
lieutenant Nungesser brought down
in succession two German airplanes
on the Somme front. These two vie- j
lories raised to twenty tho number of
enemy airplanes brought down up to
the present time by Sublieutenant
Nungesser."
Great Fight Progressing.
Petrograd, ' Dec. 5. "In Wallachia
fighting is continuing on the roads
from Tergovistea to Ploechti and from
Titu to Bucharest and west and south
of Stolitza. Under pressure of super
ior enemy forces which are incessant
ly attacking the Rumanians, tho lat
ter are retiring east. Rumanian at
tempts to check enemy attacks on the
roads to Ploechti and Bucharest were
unsuccessful. The situation in Dob
rudja Is unchanged.
"On the Black sea our seaplanes
made a raid on the village of Kara
Murad, north of Constanza. After
throwing bombs and firing on a bal
loon tho seaplanes returned."
Rumanians Repeatedly Attack.
Sofia, Dec. 4, via London, Dec. 5,
8:30 a. m. The repulse of repeated
Rumanian attacks in Wallachia and
Dobrudja is reported in the official
statement issued by tho war office to
day. The stacement tells of intermittent
artillery engagements on the Mace
donian front.
"The enemy tried an attack on ourJ:
right wing in Wallachia," says tho
statement "but was repulsed. Be
tween Turtakai and Cernavoda there
was artillery and infantry firing.
"In the Dobrudja there was artil
lery activity on the entire front. Aft
er the complete repulse of enemy at
tacks, made for three days against
our left wing between Satiskeul and
the Danube, the enemy today retreat
ed definitely to his former position.
Our advance detachments occupied
Satiskeul.
"Before Hill 234 we counted six
hundred enemy bodies.
"Two warships shelled Constanza
without, however, causing loss of
Norwegian Ship Sunk.
London, Dec. 5, 12:5S p. m. Lloyd's
announces the sinking of the Nor we-
gian steamsmps tfossi, 1,462 tons
gross, and Draupner, 1,126 tons. IH
Serbs Continue Advance.
Paris, Dec. 5. Noon. The Serbians
1 are continuing their advance in the H
Cerna region of the Macedonian front,
it is announced officially, and have
reached the outskirts of the village of
Stravina, French and Serbian troops
have made progress north of Paralovo,
in the Cerna salient.
This communication follows:
"East of the River Cerna, Serbian
forces, following up their success of
December 3, have reached the out
skirts of Stravina. All the counter-at-tacks
delivered by the enemy have
been repulsed with sanguinary losses IH
on his part. IH
"During the days of December 3 and IH
4 our allies captured five cannon and H
three shell throwers.
"North of Paralovo, Franco-Serbian IH
troops have made progress."
Bulgarians in Retreat.
London, Dec. 5, 10:30 a. m. The
Serbians have won further successes
in the Cerna region and have carried
the village of Stravina by assault, cap
turing two howitzers, according to an IH
official statement issued by the Serbi- IH
an war office dated tMonday evening. jf
The statement says that the village of
Zovik, five miles north of Grunishte,
is in flames and that the Bulgarians H
are retreating northward.
PEACE FORECAST
BY TAGEDLATT I
London, Dec. 5, 9:55 a. m. An arti- H
cle predicting the approach of peace H
negotiations has appeared in the Ber- jH
lln Tnp-Ahlnrf nnrl in nnntofl in nn Am- IH
sterdam. dispatch to the Exchange IH
Telegraph company. IH
The Tagcblatt says: IH
"Tho moment is near when a busi- IH
ness peace will be possible a peace jH
which the allies and the central pow- jH
ers can discuss in view of the securi- IH
ties they possess. Of course those IH
who consider such a proposal must IH
not bo allowed to return homo empty IH
banded. Tho status quo ante bellum IH
is impossible since the independence
of Poland is proclaimed but it is re- H
markablo that tho number of Germans
who are in favor of annexing Belgium H
has shrunk recently to almost noth- J
ing, while many Fan-Germans are H
ready today to listen to the word JH
'pacifism' without protest." jH
The Tageblatt says that the fact - JM
that Germany wants universal peace H
is a sign no of weakness, but of com- H
mon sense. The Vossischo Zeitung M
also prints an article discussing the jjH
possibility of peace. It says: H
"Probably Ambassador Gerard is jH
returning to Germany with some H
peace proposal." If such is tho case, H
the paper goes on, America is an un- H
suitable mediator and it warns Ger- dH
manv to accept the services of Presi- jH
dent" Wilson only as a messenger and IH
not as an arbitrator. IH
oo 1
Within tho handle of a new jump- H
ing rope for children is a recording IM
device to count the number of turns IH
