THE WEATHER. ,
Tonight partly cloudy, cooler; Wed
nesday generally fair.
AND PILOT
VOL XXX
BRYAN, TEXAS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1916.
NUMBER 284
THE EAGLE
Gtvoj you tba newt today. The oth
er! tomorrow.
Eagle
Ik
Allies Lost Since War Begun 15,
MM
Men
PRESIDENT WILSON WAS
N BIG OVATION
Democrats and Republicans United in Great
Demonstration When lie Appeared Before
Congress to Read His Message Representa
tive Tribble Stricken With Appoplexy At
torney General Gregory to Resign.
Washington. Dec. 5. When Presi
dent Wllnon appeared before Con
f gress this afternoon to deliver his ad
dress, Democrats and many Republi
cans united In a great demonstration
to felicitate the President on his re
eloctlon. W. J. Bryan led the demon
stration. The suffragettes unfurled a banner
over the balcony, reading "Mr. Presi
dent, What Will You Do for Woman
Suffrage?" A page confiscated It and
. President Wilson smiled.
Gregory to Resign.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 5. If Attor
ney General Gregory carries out his
reported Intention to resign from the
cabinet, President Wilson may nom
inate him as 1'nlted States Judge In
the Fifth circuit court of appeals.
comprising the Gulf states, to succeed
the late Judge McCormlck.
STANDARD OIL PRES1
LOT
DIED
John D. Archbald, After an Illness of
Two Weeks, Died Today at His
Home In Tarrytown, N. Y.
Tribble Stricken.
Washington, Dec. 6. Representa
tive Tribble of Georgia, who was
stricken with apoplexy yesterday. Is
In a critical condition and probably
will die.
"DIET 501" TRIALS
(fly Associate rress.)
Tarrylown, N. Y., Dec. 5. John D.
Archbald, president of the Standard
Oil Company of New Jersey, died at
his home In this city this morning af
ter an Illness of about two weeks.
John D. Archbald was 68 years of
age and was a native of Ohio. In
curly life he started work In an oil re
finery and was later a buyer In West
ern Pennsylvania on his own book.
He became associated with the John
I). Rockefeller Interests In 1875 and
has since been connected with the
Standard Oil Company.
Archbald's fortune Is estimated at
near one hundred million dollars.
WILL i TONIGHT
Health Commissioner Robertson Be
lieves Daily Cost Will Be Less
Than Forty Cents.
ilif Aasorlattff Trn )
Chicago, Dec. 5. The two weeks'
test by the "diet squad" ends tonight
when .the exact cost of the experi
ment will be known. Health Commis
sioner Robertson ssys the cost will be
under 40 rents dally.
CHARLES ELMENDORF
1 DAUGHTER SAFE
Reported to Have Been Killed at Chi
huahua, but Are Both Safe at
Clifton, Ariiona.
NEW MOVEMENT
LI
IC ED FOR BRYAN
Meeting at Carnegie Library to Dis
cuss Matter of a Community
'' House.
At a meeting called last night by
the romuilttce7 which waa recently or
ganized forlie study of the commun
Ity hnunr1lan. of which Mr. Robert
D. Ilrackett Is chairman, the proba
bility of establishing sum sn iniuu-
tlon In Hrran was considered by rep
resentatives of tho various religious
and civic bodies. The chairman of
tho meeting, which was held In the
Carnegie Library, was Mr. Dale Wed
dlngtnn, and the work was clearly
outlined by Mr. Rrackett The com
munity house plan, as explained by
the speaker, although based on about
tho same principles as several other
organizations, such as tho Y. M. C. A.,
fulfills a much broader mission, ex
tending out to every rltUen. both men
and women, establishing convenient
place for holding gatherings of all
character In the vicinity, and Imlud
lug gymnasium, pool rooms, swim
tiling pool and other things of tho
kind.
The committee now serving will be
continued until a mass meeting Is
held In the very near future.
Remarks supporting the plan were
made by Rev. W. K. Solomon. Major
I.. I. Mrlnnla, Prof. George Simpson,
Prof. J. It. Allen. ITof. K. 0. Allen.
Rev. Randolph Ray, W. C. Davis and
lie. J. C. Welch.
Anniher meeting of the committee
will be held Wednesday evening and
If the enthusiasm displayed by those
In attendance at the meetng Monday
night, does not abate, the success of
the prnjetl Is certainly assured.
Mr. Rrackett, while North and Kaa
this psst summer, made a thorough
Investigation of the community house
at other places and his report of what
he saw and learned, was Interesting
Indeed,
Get busy and start your favorite In
the Eagle's Mg automobile contest.
fee the nomination blank In the page
ad In the Ragle.
Kl Psso, Texas, IVr. S.-Chnrtcs Kl
mendorf, an American reported killed
at Chihuahua, Is safe and his daugh
ter, who was reported to have been
captured by Villa, Is at Clifton, ArU.,
according to a message received to
day from Elmendorf.
ill
E
SUGAR
GERMAN
LI
Mortality Rate Increase Has Been
Traeed In Germany to Insuffl
clent Sugar Allowance.
(Br Associate Pre)
tondon, Iec. &. An Investigation
Into the .Increasing mortality rale In
Merlin has established (ha fart that
the rising rate la due to an Insuffi
cient sugar allowance, according to an
Amsterdam dispatch. It has been do
elded that each child born after le
rember 1st shall have an additional
half pound of sugar monthly. Other
rations will he proportionately reduo
ed. Heretofore all babies have been
getting one pound and a halt monthly,
Summary of Message
Washington, Dec. 5. President Wilson's address at
the opening of the session of Congress today was wholly
devoted to domestic, subjects, principally the problem of
railway legislation.
In the Hall of the House with Senators and Representa
tives assembled in joint session, President Wilson in accord
ance with the custom he began at the opening of his term,
read his address from the clerk'B desk.
The President not only renewed this recommendation
for legislation to prevent a nation wide strike or lockout
before there has been opportunity for Investigation, but
defended it against the attack of organized labor as nothing
arbitrary or unjust and the "justifiable safeguarding by
society of the necessary processes of its very life."
Aside from recommendations for the passage of the
Porto Rico government bill, the corrupt practices bill and
the Webb bill to legalize American collective selling agen
cies abroad, the President's address was devoted wholly to
the railroad situation. The only feature which had not
been forecast was the elimination of the proposal that
Congress give explicit approval to consideration by the In
terstate Commerce Commission of an increase in freight
rates to meet additional expenditures by the railroads
caused by the operation of the Adamson law.
Today, the President took the position that "the power
of the Interstate Commerce Commission to grant an in
crease of rates on the ground referred to is indisputably
clear and a recommendation by the Congress with regard
to such a matter might seem to draw in question the scope
of the commission's authority or Its inclination to do justice
when there is no reason to doubt either."
The other recommendations on the railroad situation
made in a special message during the last session, which
were not put into law, were renewed today. They include:
"Immediate provision for the enlargement and admin
istrative reorganization of the Interstate Commerce Com
mission along the lines embodied hi the bill recently passed
by the House of Representatives and now awaiting action
by the Senate ;ln order that the commission may be enabled
to deal with the many, great and various duties now de
volving upon it with a promptness and thoroughness which
are, with its present constitution and means of action,
practically imtHjsible.
"An amendment of the existing federal statute which
provides for the expediation, conciliation and arbitration
of such controversies as the present by adding to it a pro
vision that, in rase the methods of accomodation now pro
vided for should fail, a full public investigation of the merits
of eery such dispute shall be instituted and completed be
fore a strike or lockout may be attempted.
. "The lodgement in the hands of the executive of the
power, in case of military necessity, to take control of such
portions of such rolling stock of the railways of the coun
try as may be required for military use and to operate them
for military purposes, with authority to draft into the mili
tary service of the United States such train crews and
administrative officials as the circumstances may require
for their safe and efficient use."
The renewed recommendation for compulsory investi
gation of labor disputes on railways before strikes or lock
outs are allowed, which has arroused the opposition of the
railroad brotherhoods, and of the American Federation of
Labor, was defended in the President's message. He de
clared he would hesitate to recommend a law which would
force Individual workmen to continue in an employment
which they desired to leave, but that no such principle wa3
Involved in the suggestion that the operation of the rail
ways of the country should not be stopped by the concen
trated action of bodies of men until a public investigation
for the benefit of the public has been instituted.
"It is based upon the very different principle," he con
tinued, "that the concentrated action of jowerful bodies
of men shall be permitted to stop the industrial processes
of the nation, at any rate before the nation shall have had
an opportunity to acquaint itself with the merits of the
case between employee and employer, time to form its
opinion upon an Impartial statement of the merits, and op
portunity to consider all practicable means of conciliation
or arbliratlon. I can see nothing In that proposition but
the justifiable safeguarding by society of the necessary
processes of Its very life. There is nothing arbitrary or
unjust in It unless it be arbitrarily and unjustly done. It
can and should be done with a full and scrupulous regard
for the Interests and liberties of nil concerned as well as
for the permanent interests of society Itself."
(Complete message appears on page three)
IN
CAUSES
AP
1
Could Not Oet Good View of Movie
Screen and Shot Because Another
Would Not Move,
"t'hliago, Dec. 6. There was a pan
ic here last night In a picture show
when William Paemhl was sh.it by
a man who prevented him from get
ting a clear view of the screen and
to whom he voiced an objection. Cap
pentlne Verno was arrested for the
shooting.
PEflC
E
ST
L
PART OF THE BURDEN
Teutonic Forces Are Still Closing in on the Ru
maniansThe Russian Advance Has Been
Checked and They Lost 15,000 Prisoners to the
Germans Encouraging Reports From Berlin
Relative to Peace The Serbians Gain on the
Macedonian Front.
Berlin, Dec. 5. The Copenhagen
research society estimates the total
loss of the Entente powers during the
war at fifteen million, one hundred
thousand men, of which the Russians
lost eight million and a half, the
French, three million, seven hundred
thousand; the British, one million tfl
hundred thousand; the Italians elghV
hundred thousand, and the smaller
nations making up the remainder.
Russian Attack Failed.
Berlin, Dec. 6. Renewed Russian
attacks in the Carpathian forests and
along the line of the Transylvanlan
frontier failed. It is officially an
nounced. The Teutonics captured the
lost positions and the British were
repulsed in an attempt to advance
East of Albert, on the Warlenlcourt
road. The Teutonics are pushing the
defeated Rumanians before Bucharest.
consistory, today Pope Benedict de
nounced aerial bombardment of open
cities and condemned all those who,
he said, had defied the laws of God
and man In the present war.
Could Not Check Teutons.
Petrograd, Dec. 6. The Rumanians
were unsuccessful in their attempt to
I check the Teutonicso on the road to
j Ploechstl and Bucharest, the war
office says.
Serbians Winning.
London, Dec. 6. The Serbians won
further success In the Cerna river
region and carried the village of St.
Ravina by assault, capturing two
i Howitzers, It was officially announced.
The village of Zovika, five miles north
of Granesmlte Is in flames and the
Bulgarians are retreating northward.
Lloyd George to Resign.
London, Dec. 5. War Secretary
Llord George drafts his resignation to-
i day after receiving Intimation that
Premier Asqulths could not sgree to
the suggestion that the war council
should be formed without the Pre
mier at Its head.
Paris, Dec. 5. Sub-Lieutenant Ken
ger today brought down two trlplanes
within an hour, thus bring his total
to twenty, says the war office. There
were no important developments on
the French front last night
Continuing their advance in the
Cerna region on the -Macedonian
front,' the Serbians have reached the
outskirts of the village of Stravlna, it
Is officially announced. The French
and Serbians made progress north of
Paralova on the Cerna salient
Sofia, Dec. 6. The respulse of re
peated Russian .attacks In Wallachla
and Dobrudja Is reported In the of
ficial statement.
Rome. Dec. 5. In his allocution.
which la believed to be for a secret
Germany Ready for Peace.
London, Dec. 5. The Berlin Tage
blatt Is quoted by the Amsterdam cor
respondent as saying a moment Is
near when a business peace will be
possible, a peace which the allies and
central powers can discuss In view of
securities they possess. Of course,
those who consider such a proposal
must not be allowed to return home
empty banded. The status quo, ante
bellum. Is Impossible since the Inde
pendence of Poland Is proclaimed, but
It Is remarkable that the number of
Germans who wish to annex Belgium
has shrunk recently to almost noth
ing, while Pan-Germans are ready to
day to listen to the word "pacificism"
without retort
Russians Lose 12,000.
Berlin, Dec. $. Russian attacks in
the Danube lowlands were repulsed
with heavy losses. The number of
prisoners taken has been Increased to
12.500.
FRENCH PREFER I
POHRICOAT
Effort W II Be Made to Get American
Raincoats Adopyd by French
Government
Rr Associated Pr
New York, Dec. 5. The poncho
American soldier raincoat Is favored
by the French In the trenches and an
effort Is being made to have It adopt
ed by the French government ac
cording to Charles Butler of the
American relief clearing house In
Paris, who returned to this city today
PLANS
Ambassador Gerard Sailed Today for
Berlin Carrying Wilson's Views
Regarding Sub Warfare.
New York. Dec. 5. When Ambassa
dor Gerard left this city today for his
post at Berlin It Is said ho carried no
peace plans with him. He rsrrled.
however. President Wilson's views re
Renting submarine warfare and de
portatlons of Belgians, for presents
tlon to the Imperial government.
$2,
ffl
S
FORMI
L
ITARY POST
Tacoma, Wash Will Vols on Bond
Issue to Establish Military Post
Close to Thst City.
Dr Associated Press.)
Tacoma, Wash.. Dec. 6. A two-
million dollar bond Issue for the pur
chase of a tract of seventy thoussnd
acres of land twelve miles south of
this city, for a I'nlted States military
post, will be voted on January Clh.
RETURN FOR SHROT STAY.
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Goldcnbcrk and
little daughter, Miss Virginia, arrlv
ed In the rlty yesterday afternoon In
their car from Houston, and will
spend a few days In the city. They
will be guests at the Hotel Bryan.
LIVING III SWITZ-
E
ID
ADVANCED
W. F. Iavls W. M. of the Brsios
Union Lodge No. 129 A. . and "A. M.
left last night for Waco to attend
the State meeting ofrne Grand Idge.
R. E. Jolly of Cryde is In the city
the guest of hl son Dave Jolly and
family tor a fow days.
Country Is Hemmed In by Warring
Nations and Foodstuffs Co Sky
wardMany Prices Doubled.
(Dr Associated Pr0 .
Wsshlnirton. D. C Dec $. The
cost of living In Swltierland, hemmed
In by warring nations, has advanced
nearly as fsst as In some of the bel
ligerent countries, according to re
ports to the department of commerce.
The cost ss a whole has Increased 4S
per cent and some foods have doubled
In price.
