"NO PAPER HAS EVER DONE A BIGGER OR FINER PIECE OF CONSTRUCTIVE WORK FOR ITS COMMUNITY"—HI GILL
SEATTLE PUT ON TOURIST MAP
TO PROSECUTE MAN
WHO SHOT WOMAN
AT RENTON BRIDGE
Boneheaded and illegal shooting by police and
guilty peace officers at innocent persons will be
/topped by Prosecutor I undin, who announced 'rues
relay he would file charges again I own Marshal Dell -
hunt, of Renton. who wounded Mrs. lohn Mitchell.
42t2 Orcas st., early Monday, while going to visit her
mother-in-law in an auto driven by \1 McC.oy.
l.undin said he would file charges as soon .is the
outcome of Mrs. Mitchell's injuries could be determined.
"Marshal Dellahunt had no authority to open fire
just because he and his fellow officers suspected there
was liquor in the McCoy auto," said l.undin.
"They had no legal or moral right. It w.is a serious
blunder and I intend to file charges against Dellahunt
and press them in such a way that future breaks ot thi
sort will be discouraged."
Attendants »t the Renton ho*
pit*l. where the Injured woman la
being raced for. reported Tne»«l»\
that she was out of dancer unless
some unforeseen complication .«et in
Th« bullet which entered her
shoulder took an upward course
and came out her neck. It was said
•t the hospital. She wu crazed on
chin by another of I»ellah<nM's
Other than saying she heard an
order to stop when the machine ap
proarhed the Hlack river bridge.
Mr*. Mffchell haa refused to talk
A 1 MsCoy. the driver. appc aired
before Ijjndin in company with
Marshal srrt* explaining he
PRES. WILSON
ASKS RAILROAD
LEGISLATION
BY ROBERT J BENDER
WASHINGTON. Dec s—Oe
daring the country "cannot
and should not consent to re
main any longer exposed to
profound Industrial disturb
ancsa." President Wilson ap
peared before a joint session of
congress today and appealed
Immediate action on hie
program of "settlement and
regulation of difficulties" be
tween the railroads and their
trainmen.
Statement of the need of such
legislation occupied the bulk of his
annual message the shortest one
he has delivered
In a late addition to his mes
sage, the president urged the
passage by the house of the voca
tional and Industrial education
measures passed by the senate dur
li.g the last session
His message follows
Gentlemen of the Congress:
In fulfilling at this time the duty
laid upon me by the constitution
of communicating to you from time
to time Information of the state of
the I'nlon and recommending to
your consideration such legislative
measures as may be Judged neces
sary and expedient, I shall con
tinue the practice, which f hope
iias been acceptable to you, of
leaving to the reports of the sev
eral heeds of the executh- depart
ments the elaboration of the detail
«d needs of the public service and
confine myself to those matters of
•pore general public policy with
fehlch It seems necmsary and feas
ible to deal at the present session
of the congress
I realize the limitations of time
under which you will neossarlly
act at this session and shall make
my suggestions as few as possible,
but there were some things left un
done at the last session which
there will now he time to com
plete and which it eems neccsary
In the Interest of the public to do
at. once.
In the first, place. It seems to me
Imperatively necessary that the
earliest, possible consideration and
action should be accorded th< - re
Continued on page 3.)
3MEIT
WEE!
Plan on reading
"One-Cylinder Sam"
It's a novel by E. J. Hath.
Here's your chance to get
a $1.50 novel for just six
cents. It begins on Mon
day and ends Saturday.
Shop early and avoid the rueh of
Chriatmaa w««k. See how happy
Satterfield'e bear >• bacauae the ar
tiat made him do hie Chrlatmaa
(hopping early. Co thou and do
llkewiae The weather forecaat la:
•Tonight and Wedneeday, rain or
(now."
had be«n called to Maple \ allev to
carry s load of produce lie «id he
picked up Mr« Mitchell, who •» a
going thai sty to visit her mother
In law.
The shooting at the bridge wa«
believed by McCoy to be a hold up
"1 dldn t think the man wotild
*hoo«.' he said, and when the
shots were fired I kept on going I
had driven some distance before I
discovered Mrs Mitchell had been
hit. I took her to the Benton hos
pital Immediately "
The officers said ih«y had sta
tinned themselves at the bridge
thinking to apprehend a l <ad of ron
iraband liquor, supposed to be en
route front Kent to Issaquah
SUFFRAGE BANNER
HECKLES WILSON
WASHINGTON. I>e< r. The
first demonstration by suffragist*
such as "heckled" the British house
of rnniirom In 'he pa«t occurred In
congress today while President Wll
son read his message
A bin yellow unit i.nnnor was un
furled from the hou*e kall•> r - by
a group of suffrage pynptlhltrr*
l» bore the Inscription Mr
President, What Will Tou lio for
Woman Suffrage?"
A page was dispatched to the «ra!
lery hurriedly and tore down the
banner The president went on
with the reading of hi* speech, ap
parently crlvtn«r the banner no at
tentlon. tho It was unfurled dlre< t|\
In front of him.
LLOYD-GEORGE
QUITS CABINET
l-OM*)N. Ix-< ii On the high
est authority. It was made known
this afternoon that David Lloyd
George had resigned from the cab
inet
His resignation was drafted and
sent to Premier Asriulth Immedi
ately after he received an Intlma
Hon that Asqulth waa unwilling to
agree to the plan of a small war
council.
In announcing that I.loyd George
had decided to resign the Exchange
Telegraph companv added that
formal announcement of his sever
ance of relations with the cabinet
would lie announced tomorrow
BULGARS VICTORS
SOFIA. Dec Sanguinary re
pulse of attar ks In DobrudJa nnd
rapture of Satlakeui was asserted
In todav s official Bulgarian state
ment.
REYNOLDS SHOWS GAIN FOR SEATTLE
'1 lie decision ot the interstate commerce coiiv
mi'sion, which, I understand, eliminates the differential
against tourist traffic to thr Northwest, will give tin-
Northwest an c<|Ual opportunity to participate in the
traffic to the ' oast.
Mr. Cannon, general traffic manager of the Chicago,
Milwaukee K St I'aul railway, testified that 50 per
cent of the people who came to the ticket offics of the
( hicago. Milwaukee iV St. I'aul railway in the cit\ of
( hicago to buy tickets to the < oast over the ( hicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul, after learning that the rate
was $17.50 cheaper over the Southern route, purchased
tickets over the Southern route.
'Ihe effect of this differential was so far reaching
in the matter of diverting tourist traifit from us that it
is impossible to estimate tiic great benefit that will rc
BY C A. REYNOLDS
(The Man Who Argued the Catse Before the
Interstate Commerce Commission)
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS
VOLUME 19.
John D. Archbold,
Standard Oil Head,
Dies at His Home
John D Archbotd
TARRYTOWN, N Y, Dsc 5.
—John D Archbold died at 3:50
a. m. today, at hia home on 8.
Broadway h«r«
Death resulted from complica
tions following an operation for
appendicitis, performed Novem
ber 21.
Kstltnates toda* placed s $lOt>
t al'ie on Archbold a Wtnun
proi»rt Ira
Archbold s b>d» will irj i In the
family niiiwileutn si the north end
of Hlew*jiv Hollow *hrrr
'be h«4|\ of Mm. John It. HfK'ke
feller was plated Iwfore being
taken to Cleveland
Wife Was With Him
with Archbold at the end »ei»
Mr* An hUild and their children.
John K Archbold. Mr* Michael M
(Continued on psge 5)
'ANYBODY CAN
ROB GIRLS THRU
FLATTERY'-WAX
NEW YORK. Dec S—"Any
body can do it.' accord.ng to
"Oliver Otborna"—Chat H
Was—b # ieg brought from Chi
cago to New York at a ma
terial witnett against Rae Tan
ttr, chargcd with i ting the
maila in an attsmpt to defraud
James W Oaborne out of J ; >o
000 He was referring to bit
acttvitiet at a twiddler of
women The police and postal
authorities tay he hat twin
died 200 of them in variout
partt of the country, uemg Ol
iver Otborne" and mtny othfr
namea.
"Osborne ts due here late to
dav, hut he sent ahead his own
story of how he wins women
Makes Quick Proposals
It s Just like anything else, he
sild It takes application Kach
woman, of course, presented a
sllghtlv different problem Hut I
kept the few feminine t)pes men
tall - indejed and If one system did
not seem to be working, why It waa
Just like reaching Into a pigeon
hole for anoth- r formula
"I usually proposed to a woman
at the first meeting, sometimes
five minute* after I met her,
sometime< I thought It best to wait
two hours
I alwavs dress well I get an
$11 suit. pair of noseglasse yel
low gloves, gray apata, a talking
stick and a chrysanthemum or a
rose In the buttonhole \ net up
like that w ill make a bartender or
a wafer look like a millionaire If
a man can lite up to his chryiati
themutn he ha* the fight half won
at the start.
Tells 'Em He Loves 'Em
Tell 'em you love em the first
time you meet 'em That fetches
(Continued on page 5)
LUGILE. WRIGHT, confessed
shoplifter, was sentenced to 2«» days
In the county Jail by Judge Gordon
Monday.
SEATTLE, WASH., TUESDAY, DEC. 5, 1916.
Mayor's Statement
Till >1 \l< •s -urcc *ful i ampaign for equitable
tourist rates stands out. in my opinion, .is the
biggest anil finest piei < of constructive work that any
newspaper lias r»rr ilone for its community
Sl' V I 111 has heeti suffering under unjust tourr t
rates for 10 )ears Spasmodic efforts to throw off
the burden have In-rn made from time to tune, but al
ways with no success I think this is the reason why
Seattle showed su> h little interest in the subject when
Ihe Stat finally tai kled it , t year ago Seattle thought
it would prove another unsuccessful attempt, but it
didn't
I I turned into a grand \ictor\ fi>r Seattle and the
whole Northwest, and I lie Mat The I astern tout ■
ist will no longer be penalized if he want to
see the Northwest
'BIG boost; say well
KNOWN SEATTLE MEN
H A ftchoenftld. President of th* Standard Furniture Co.—"Hiere
i» no ijurmlon but that th« Interstate commerce commission * niilng.
; eliminating the dla< H minatory Houtharn rate. "11l wort. wonder* for
the Northwest It I* a fine rhr1»lm»» present I was afraid * decision
I nould not be obtained until summer, when It would be too late to
j profit by the summer traffic
• • • • •
A. J. Rhodes, of U>« Rhode* Co*-rl am (lad to LUla rale cmmi
i woti Morn imople »IH com* to Heatiie and the Northwest. and m»nv
I will artll*- here It m 111 bno*t biislne** and work to the general benefit
I of all
M A Gottsiein. President of th* Gottstein Furniture Co.—The
redlt of thla victory la greath due The Seattle Star, and The Star
•hould feel proud of Ita work Thla sort of a victory la constructive
• • • • •
Otto F Kegel, of Grote Rankin —The out come of thli fight !•» highly
*ratlf« :n • and liualm - • <■ * a whole will profit
• • • • •
A J. L«nnon. Merchant—Th* ultimate benefit* of thl* ri'lnn
po numerou4 «n»l that I am unahl* to male any (Infinite nta(<-
rn«*n' ! only kno« lhat »*illr In fortunate anct that th* benefit* will
t# noil* r»l imrn^<hat«*h
• • • • •
E F Sweeney. Motel Proprietor—lt la a wonderful vlctorv for S<
tile l»a Angelea boa*t* that the growth of that city ha* been due
to Ita tourlata I feel that Seattle will wltneaa a somewhat similar
; growth na the rnault of thn commission's action Our rallroada will
do better business and Kastern clti/ens will find that the m nfiery of
I'uget ■initid la equal to that of any other place In the world I may be
too entljuataatlc but I feel thla la one of the greateat vlctorlea ever
won for the a'ai' The Star dwrtra i redit for the (treat fight It
put up
• • • • •
Nathan Eckstein, President of the Seattle School Board I waa
pleaaantli aurprlaed I worked for .veara on a committee to bring thla
ibout. but failed It l« oil" of the beat things that ha* happened to
i Seattle In year*
• • » a •
J C WarmaduSe. Preaident of the Washington State Hotel Asaocia
lion—l think I can apeak the opinion of every hotel (iroptietor In the
Nortliw.*! when I an that I conalder thla one of the moat beneficial
"Ulings e\er made In Washington. I> * . for the baneflt of hualneas in
our at ate Kaatern raiiroads and ticket agenta w||| give u* fair treat
, .nent now
Henry Broderick. Real Eatate Operator—The Star and Mr Kcynoltfs
are to be ryiniraliila'ad on the outcome of thla rate fight An even
break on railroad ratea will do much towarda colonisation. It will lie
a great boon to the elate
• • • a a
Ole Hanaon. Real Eatate Operator—lt la a great victor* for T'.ie
Star and the people who took i«nrt In the fight The tourist travel
which will result will do much to advertlae the atate and undoubtndlv
many patenter* will eventually return to make their hnmea here,
• • • • •
Jimet A Duncan. Secretary of the Central Labor Council—The
wlnnlnK of thla rale fight almply goes to ahnw wbal united team work
and ronaclnntloua effort will do Seattle almply put Ita .ihoulder to the
wheel and pushed The city deanrvo* the benefit* thai are bound to
follow
• • • • •
J. C. Reid. Secretary Seattle Commercial Club—The Star la to be
congratulated <>n tho splendid fight and the signal victory won In the ;
'ace of what seemed to be Insurmountable obstacle* The decision will |
mean million* of dollar* to Seattle and other North weat clt
Ted D.iken, Pre»id«nt Ad Club —<>nr greatest difficulty In arouNlng
anv enthusiasm for nn advertising campaign for Seattle thru (he Kast
•*a« the |I 7 T.n dlfferental rate against us Now that It Is reunoved. Se
r.ttle I* going "> b* OB every U>UfUt'» tn»p.
suit to the Northwest by rea«on of this decision. The
effect of the differential was brought home to me when
I attempted to persuade the members of the National
\ssoiiation of Public Service Commissioners to come
by wav of Seattle on their excursion to San Francisco.
I desire to publicly thank all those who assisted so
splendidly in bringing about this signal victory. I .ot me
suggest now. with this differential out of the way. that
all public organizations in the lity of Seattle get to
gether for one big drive for the tourist traffic that will
conic to the Pacific coast during this coming summer.
It seems to me that now is the psychological time to
get busy along these lines Ihe Northern route is the
natural route for the tourist traffic during the summer
month" Ihe differential which has been eliminated was
sufficient to nullify our efforts to bring tourist traffic
this wav. but with the differential out of the way, there
i» no reason why. instead of having 10 per cent, we
should not have it least <«0 per cent of the tourist traffic
during the mouths of June, July, August and September.
one cent
Star Wins Great Fight
for the Entire Northwest
Northwest merchants, shippers, manufacturers, toilers, all
classos, are united today in expressions of satisfaction over the
great victory for this section of the country in the tourist rate de
cision handed down Monday by the interstate commerce commis
sion.
Fired by the enthusiasm of this gigantic boon to the Northwest,
a movement is under way for a concerted boosters' campaign in
the East, to advertise the attractions of Washington and Oregon
jointly.
For the victory of the tourist rates, by which the round trip
fares from Chicago to San Francisco will be the same, whether
by way of the Northwest or Southern California, is a joint tri
umph for both Oregon and Washington.
At the very outset of the fight last year, The Star enlisted the
services of its sister papers, the Portland News, the Tacoma Times
and the Spokane Press. Together they carried on the campaign.
Boosters' meetings were held in each of the cities named.
Finally, the state of Washington and Oregon jointly paid the
expense of sending Charles A. Reynolds, of Seattle, to Washing
ton, D. C., to argue the case. All the expenses incidental to the
suit filed by Reynolds were shared by the states of Oregon and
Washington.
The plan now proposed l» along
J the line* dlacuaaed at the recent
i I'aclflc t'oaat Tourlat aaaoclatlon
i meeting In Tacoma. Kach atate I*
' to contribute an equal amount, and
| the advantage! of the great North
| waal a/* to be «w Wiled In K*aU>rn
' magatlrie* and newaiiapera
To Advertlae Temperature*
One Idea I* to advertlae the tarn
of the leading Northwe*t
. dtlea In the newspa|i«r* of the
• weltering Kaat.
In Oreg-m. the representative* t'
the f'aclfl- roa»t Tourlat aaaocia
tlon meeting will aak the leglala
tiire for isr.oon |>er vear for two
| year* to advertlae Oregon
In the paat mere advertlalng of
the beauty of the Northwest got no
where be< auae the tourlat wa* at
once confronted with a plain dol
lar* and cent* argument against the
Northweat Thla has now been re
moved
Will Bring 'Em Here
"A trip In summer la much more
comfortable and enjoyable on the
Northern route." »ald one merchant.
and In a short time there should
lie no reason wh) every tourlat
won't know It. We have a fine,
even climate here, while 1 An
| gele* and Southern California, the
inecca of tourist* now , suffer from
hot. sandy weather quite often
Will the tourist come to the North
west* Will a duck *wlm?"
The decision bv the Interstate
commerce commission doe., not set
tin whether the present Northern
or Southern rate are to prevail It
merely orders the railroad com |
pnnles to make the rates the same
on lM>th routes The change must
be made by February IT., and up
plies to all venr excursion rales as
well aa to summer tourlat rate*
The tourist trade haa meant
million* to I<o* Angeles and sur
rounding territory
With a more even ciimate on Pu
get *nund than In sandy Southern
t'allfornla. tourlat attraction to the
Northwest is considered more log
leal The differential rate of $17 Lo
ha* heretofore been In the way of
reaping all the natural advantages
the Northwest has to attract the
tourist
With Increased travel to the
Northwr*t. It Is pointed out. th« ;
side trips to Alaska will also Kreat
ly Increase
GREATEST HOTEL
MAN DIES IN N. Y.
NEW YORK. r>»< u. —<«eo
lloldt. proprietor of the Waldorf
Astoria and called the greatest ho
tel man of his tln>f>, died at f> a
in. today Heart failure was given
as the ratiM
Ills death was not exported, tho
he hail been In poor health for
some time.
"lie had been working too hard."
his assistants nt the hotel said, ex
plaining that the hotel prosperity
of the past several months had set
a man killing para for all New
York hotel men.
lloldt was 65 years old.
MACKENZEN KEEPS
UP HIS VICTORIES
lIEW.I.N. via Hayvllle Wireless
l)ec. t>. Field Marshal Von
MaeUen/.en's victoriously advancing
army has crossed the railroad lend
Ing from Bucharest to Targovlste
slid Pelroslta eastward, mil the
Ilanuhe army has gained a fooi
liold In the lower Argeaul valley,
after defeating numerically su
perlor forces, today * official itate
men I uaatrteii
NIGHT EDITION
CONSIDER HIM, LADY
Congreaawoman Rankin haa received a propoaal
from an Oklahoma lawyer who aaya he ia "temporarily
picking cotton," Any lawyer who will get out and work
la worth looking over twicc, Miaa Rankin.
TACOMA MAYOR PRAISES STAR
"Th# decision of ths interstate commerce commission in
the tourlat differential rste cass comes at a psychological mo
ment," said Mayor A. Z. Fawcett of Tacoma to The Star Twea
day.
"It would have meant much to the Northweat at any time
before now. It means more now, with the proposed army post
and the great shipbuilding industry that la growing up.
"The Northwest may now count on a tourist travel that
will be one of its oiggest assets.
"I want to congratulate The Star and Its sister papers in
the Northwest on the public-spirited fight which they almost
alone made for the aboliahment of the unjust differential and
on the victory which has just been won for the benefit of the
whole Northwest." ,
SEATTLE WOMEN CALL MEETING
TO OPEN COST OF LIVING WAP
A new army declared war on
the high cost of living in Seat
tle Tuesday.
Plana for a man meeting of
housewives the latter part of
the week, to map out food boy
cotts. were announced by Mrs.
Eleanor M. Reddington, presi
dent of the Homekeepers' club,
which has a membership of
200.
She announced Mayor Gill as
one of the speakers, and pre
dicted a packed house in what
ever hall is finally secured for
the meeting.
The Homekeepers club has <1*
elded to take the lead In an effort
lo arouse the housewives of Seattle
to the Importance of concerted ac
lion In forcing an immediate re
duction In the price of necessities."
«ald Mrs. Keddlngton. She
hacked up by a determined execu
tive committee, composed of Mes
dames Kllzabelh M. Hlgglns. K \V.
Sankey, A. K. Henby and G. T.
Smart
"We will call a mass meeting for
(he earliest date possible.
We have been assured of the
mayor's hearty support. Me will
he one of the speakers.
"Seattle Is too big to depend on
housewives In other elites to win
this fight on the high cost of living
that Is challenging the power of
BOOZE AS PAINT
SEIZED AT DOCKS
Ten kegs of whisky smuggled Into
the cltv as paint were seized hj
dry squad officers Monday, who
were watching for contraband along
the water front.
This is the first time liquor smug
glers have been caught working the
paint gag. The stuff was consigned
lo the Itass lleuter Paint Company,
hut representatives denied auv
knowledge of the shipment.
Government revenue officials ace
at work on the case.
TAXI DRIVER FIGHTS
HUSKY ASSAILANTS
When two husky patrons tried to
rob Ta\l l>rlvcr William Hurt, after
he had driven them to Madison
park, early Tuesday morning. Ihe
Irate victim started fighting, and
both men ran. He then drove to
police headquarters and reported
the altemptel robbery.
Both of 'siu were six-footers,"
he said.'
i women every w here
"The Homeke«>)ers' club was or
ganized to help teacji Seattle wom
en how to conduct the home hette
for less Now Is the time to justify
our existence as a club. It will bt
a finish fight.
Have Determination
We have little money, bm a lo'
of determination.
"Prices must come down, am*
come down quitkly. The house
wives have ihe power to win their
fight if thev wll' act In concert In
using it. How to go about ft will,
of course. he> up to the women who
attend the mass meeting.
"We want every woman in Seat
tle who is interested in reducing
the cost of living to attend th<
mass meeting
"If boycotts on but|er. eggs and
other foods, the price of which If
entirely out of rerson, are the onh
way. then we w>ll ask for a city
wide boycott.
"It has been estimated that
women spend from S3 to ?0 pel
cent of the family Income. Obvi
ously, that givet her great power.
If all the women of Seattle join
hands, they can force down the
price of necessaries before con
gress gets started on food embargo
hills and other measures designed
to bring relief to Ihe average
\merican home."
ADVERTISING MANAGER'S
DAILY TALK
Christmas Gifts
You will find many
helpful suggestions
in the ads in The
Star. And not only
will you find many
attractive Bavins op
portunltlea, but you
will also find many
things suggested that
you have not thought
of.
It w ill pay you well
to watch the ads
carefully these da;s.
MORE THAN fO.OOO COPIES
DAILY
