THE BARM DAILY TIMES
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BARRE, VERMONT. TUESDAY, DECEMBER !t, 1916.
VOL. XX NO. 223.
WILSON ASKS LAW
TO HALT STRIKES
AND LOCKOUTS
I full and scrupulous regard for the inter
rw r i t .Jests and liberties of ail concerned as well
wppuses urgaiiwcu uauvx ii
That Contention and De
clares That Such Legisla
tion Is "Justifiable Safe
guarding by Society of the
Necessary Processes of Its
Very Life"
ADDRESSES CONGRESS
IN JOINT SESSION
Says That Explicit Direction
Is Not Necessary for In
terstate Commerce Com
mission to Grant Increase
of Rates to Railroads to
Meet the Greater Cost of
Labor
Washington, D. C, Dec. 5. President
Wilson's address at the opening of the
session of Congress to-day was wholly
devoted to domestic subjects, principally
the problem of railway legislation. In
the hall of the House with senators and
representatives assembled in joint ses
sion, President Wilson in accordance with
the custom he began at the opening of
his term, read his address from the
clerk's desk.
The president not only renewed his
recommendation for legislation to pre
vent a nation-wide railway strike or lock
out before there has been opportunity
for investigation, but defended it against
the attack of organized labor as nothing
arbitrary or unjust and the "justifiable
safeguarding by society of the necessary
processes of its very life."
Aside from recommendations for the
passage of the Porto Rico government
bill, the corrupt practices bill and the
Webb bill to legalize American collective
Helling agencies abroad, the president's
address was devoted wholly to the rail
road situation. The only feature which
had not been forecast was the elimina
tion of the proposal that Congress give
explicit approval to consideration by the
interstate commerce commission of an in
crease in freight rates to meet additional
expenditures by the railroads caused by
the operation of the Adamson law.
To-day the president took the position
that "the power of the interstate com
merce commission to grant an increase
of rates on the ground referred to is in
disputably clear and a recommendation
by the Congress with regard to such a
matter might seem to draw in question
tfe scope df the commission's authority
or its inclination to do justice when there
is no reason to doubt either."
The other recommendations on the rail
road situation made in a special message
during the last session, which were not
pi into law, were renewed to-day. They
include:
"Immediate provision for the enlarge
ment and administrative reorganization
of the interstate commerce commission
along the linos embodied in the bill re
cently passed by the House of Represen
tatives and now awaiting action by the
Senate; in order that the commission
may be enabbd to deal with the many
great and various duties now devolving
upon it with a promptness and thorough
ness which are, with its present constitu
tion and means of action, practically im
possible. "An nmendment of the existing federal
Matute which provides for the mediation,
conciliation and arbitration of such con
troversies as the present by adding to it
a provision that, in case the methods of
accommodation now provided for should
fail, a full public investigation of the
merits of every such dispute shall be in
stituted and completed before a strike
or lockout may lawfully be attempted.
"The lodgment in the hands of the ex
ecutive of the power, in case of military
necessity, to take control of such por
tions of such rolling stock of the rail
ways of the country as may be required
for military use and to operate them for
military purposes, with authority to
draft into the military service of the
United States such train crews and ad
ministrative officials as the circumstances
mar require for their safe and efficient
use."
The renewed recommendation for com
pulsory investigation of labor disputes
on railways before strikes or lockouts are
allowed, which has aroused the opposi
tion of the railroad brotherhoods, and of
the American Federation of Labor, was
defended in the president's message. He
declared he would hesitate to recommend
a law which would force individual work
men to continue in an employment which
they desired to leave, hut that no such
principle was involved in the suggestion
that the operation of the railways of the
country should not be stopped by the
concentrated action of bodies of men un
til a public investigation for the benefit
of the public has been instituted.
"It is bed upon the very different
principle." he continued, "that the con
centrated action of powerful bodies of
men shall not lie permitted to stop the
industrial processes of the nation, at any
rate before the nation shall have had an
opportunity to acquaint itself with the
merits of the case between employe and
employer, time to form its opinion upon
an impartial statement of the merits,
and opportunity to consider all practi
cable means of conciliation or arbitration.
I can pee nothing in that proposition but
the justifiable safeguarding by society of
the necessary processes of its very life.
Tbcre is unfiling arbitrary or unjust in it
unless it be arbitrarily and uojutly
dent. It ran and should be dona with l
for the permanent interests of society
itself."
. WILSON CONGRATULATED.
By Democrats nd Some Republicans o
His Re-election.
Washington, 1). C, Dec. 5 When Pres
ident Wilson appeared before Congress ul
1 o'clock this afternoon to deliver his
annual address, the Democrats and man?
Republicans united in a great demon
stration to felicitate the president upon
liis re-election.
FARM CREDIT SCHEME.
Is Proposed Before National Conference
in Chicago.
Chicago, Dec. 5. "Fundamental Prin
ciples that Should Apply in Farm Cred
its" were discussed here to-day by Rob
ert D. Kent, a banker of Passaic, X. J.,
before the Xational'Confcrence on Mar
keting and Farm Credits.
Mr. Kent basing his remarks on the
principle that "prosperity, safety and
happiness of men result from that of
society in general and that society's
strength and safety come from the fidel
ity and labor of individuals," spoke in
part as follows:
In addition to raising crops tor food,
clothincr and shelter, it is imnortant that i
men be given employment to earn a
livelihood. The problem is for society
to furnish farms to capable and willing
workers, who, in turn, will furnish prod
ucts of the soil to the community.
"It is of prime importance that the
individual who is to be assisted should,
bear the brunt of the burden. If he Is
relieved of his obligation to be thought
ful, industrious and thrifty his manli
ness will be undermined. The state,
however, should make it as easy as pos
sible for the borrower, by arranging sys
tems of co-operation among the borrow
ers themselves. It is of, public benefit
that the 'landless man' should be con
nected with the 'manless land' and there
fore the government is justified in fur
nishing assistance, but it should be done
in such a way that 'misfits' should not
occur and that underwriting should not
entail any long or severe charge on so
ciety. "1 would suggest the following plan:
Let tho township, county, or state, own
the land and the stock on the farm Hnd
let them enter into a contract with those
that desire to go on the farms. Earn
ings of the farms should to a large ex
tent be applied to reducing the debts
incurred, and the government, in such
cases, should appoint supervisors over
say, ten or fifteen farms for the first
year's occupancy, but put no more ex
pense on the farm than necessary in or
der that the taxpayers' money may not
be ieonardized.. Until the working of
the farms returns enough money to make ;
a substantial reuueuon oi me wueoica
ncss, the supervisors should have full
power of direction. Then the title to
the farm could be vested in the occu
pant, and a mortgage would secure the
balance due. If it be found that the
farmer can not 'make good' the contract
should be terminated by a board of com
mittee, properly constituted."
HEAVYWEIGHTS TO FIGHT.
George Carpentier, France Pugilist, to
Meet Jess Willard.
New York, Dec. 5. George Carpentier,
heavyweight champion of France, and
Jess Willard, world's champion, are vir
tually matched for a 10-round, no-decision
bout, to be fought in this city
within the next two months. While the
final signatures of the pugilists have not
been secured, their verbal consent hag
been obtained and they are now waiting
for articles of agreement to be forwarded
to them.
Forty thousand dollars from the profits
of the match are to go to the French war
relief fund and it was on account of this
arrangement that permission was ob
tained for the release of Carpentier from
the French army. The only possibility
of a hitch is a demand on the part of
Willard for a share of the purse out of
proportion to the estimated gate receipts.
If this develops, Tex Riekard, who is ar
ranging the match, plans to match Car
pentier with Les Dacry, the Australian
middleweight champion.
FOUND DEAD IN BED.
Linn E. Drummer, Prominent Kecne Man,
Died in Springfield.
Kecne. N. II., Dec. 5. Linn E. Drum-
... ...
nier, B tin miuwii una 111 Minim nt ii-si-
dent of this citv. was found dead in bed
His age was 45 year's 'XXlruZ? !
His age was u years Mr. rummer was
Sorincfield
work in tr in Sprinetield for the J. C. Black
rhii,. Cn nf this citv. Mr. Drummer
was prominent in the Sons of Veterans ,
1 l.s niirilinrv hntinir oprvnt oa ftnm. t
nd l miviiiarv. havimr served as com-
mander in the Sons of Veterans, and was oupj.i.g u, c.x.v
their present secretary. He was past di-1 Thp Rumanians who had been attack
vision commander of the New Hampshire 'nK tne r"H"- of hls force; wtre them
Sons of Veterans, and went about the fives attacked and retired,
state considerably as installing officer for j 1" the wooded Carpathians, the state
the order " Iment said, there were a number of bat-
He was employed bv the Boston A i ties for individual heights. Russian
Maine railroad until the shops removed forces captured a height southwest of
to Billerica a few years ago. Since that abionitza. Nrth of Trotush there was
time he had been employed as a machin- obstinate fighting, the enemy stubborn
ist bv the J. C. Black company. The jly resisting advances,
body "was brought to Keene on the after-1 The statement also detailed rifle fir
noon train yesterday. He is survived bv ing along the Danube and declared 111
a mother, Mrs. Lauretta Drummer of this Dobrudja enemy attempts to attack had
city, also a widow, who was Mary Gor- been arrested by artillery and rule fire.
man; and a half brother, Thomas Reed
..t iia,,fr.l cn Gradichtea. or Gradistea. lies due south
' "
WANT 8-H0UR DAY, TOO.
TiMi.rmBt '
Railway
Maintenance
Heard from Now.
Washington, Iee. 5. Declaring their jmanian and Russian forces were making
work is "dirty, laborious and under- the lat stand against capture of Bu
paid, 400,000 members of the mainte- ;haret.
nance departments of American railroads! One more river inTervenes between the
yesterday filed a petition with Congress
asking to be imluded in "any eight-hour
railroad legislation."
PEACE RUMOR
AGAIN HEARD
INGERMANY
It Takes the Form of a Busi
ness Peace, Which the Bel
ligerents Can Discuss "In
View of the Securities
They Possess," Says Ber
lin Paper
WILSON NOT WANTED
AS AN ARBITRATOR
One Newspaper in Berlin
Thinks Ambassador Ger
ard Is to Return to Ger
many with Some Peace
Proposal Business Peace
Would Be Common Sense
London, Dec. 5. An article predicting
h .nnrM,h of ne.c negotiations has
r..
; appeared in the Berlin Tageblatt and is
'quoted in an Amsterdam dispatch to the
, Kxoha Telegraph company as fol
lows: "The moment is near when busi-
ness peace will be possible, a peace which
the allies and central powers can discuss
in view of the securities they possess."
Tageblatt further says that the fact
Germany wants business peace is a sign
not of weakness but of common sense.
Vossiche Zeitung also prints an arti
cle, discussing the possibility of peace.
It says that it is probable Ambassador
Gerard is returning to Germany with
some peace proposal. "If such is the
case," the paper goes on, "America is an
i unsuitable mediator" ami it warns Ger
many to accept tne services oi presi
dent Wilson only as a messenger
as an arbitrator.
not
ENTENTE HAS LOST
15,000,000 MEN
Berlin Statement Credits Russia with
Loss of Slightly More Than One
half that Number, with
France Next.
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 5. The total
losses of the entente in the present war
have been 1,,MK),000 men, according to
the figures given out by the Association
for Research into Social Consequences of
the War, as quoted by the Overseas'
News ageucy to-day. Of this number,
says the agency summary, Great Britain
has lost 1.1OO.000; Russia. 8,500,000;
Franco 3.700,000; Italy, 800,000; Serbia,
480,000; and Belgium, 220,000 and Ru
mania, 200,000.
TEUTONS RETAKE
SOME POSITIONS
IN TRANSYLVANIA
Repulsed Russian Attacks There and in
Western Rumania are Pursuing
the Fleeing Enemy.
Berlin, via wireless, Dec. 5. Renewed
Russian attacks in the Carpathians and
along the line of the Transylvanian fron
tier were made yesterday, but they did
not gain the slightest success, it is an
nounced officially. The Teutonic troops
recaptured their lost positions.
In western Rumania, Teutonic troops
are pursuing the defeated Rumanians on
the front before Bucharest.
British troops attempted to make an
advance east of the Albert-Warlencourt
1 I... A 1. .1
roau yesieniay, out weir zt-junnru, mo
statement says.
GRADICHTEA HAS FALLEN.
I Russian Official Statement Admits Loss
of the Place.
Petrograd, Dec. 5. Retirement of Ru
manian forces south of Bucharest, in the
face of re-enforced attacks by the Teu
tonic forces, was announced in yester-
riuv K MM, flllll-l- Llft Lt'llltril L. J 11 it iiri j inn
, n:.... .... ti... t ..
- , f, ,. , . . ., ., .
V to,k Gradlelltea' 12 "les south of
'"d "d
.,. .;fl thi
enemy,
who had been put on the defen
sive by attacks irom tne allied lorees,
' re-eniorceu anu aciacKeu uramcu,
lof Bucharest and onlv 12 miles south of
jthe Rumanian capital. It is on the main
iiailroad from Bucharest to (iinrtiu and
situated on the southern bank of the
ArilvMI lltCI, W TIT nit i' mi rii.i..i
from both sides have indicated the Ru
I Ar;eu and l'.m hret tne river anru.
'hih parallels the Argesu about two
miles to the north. If the retreat men-
FATE OF BUCHAREST
APPARENTLY SEALED
The fata of Bucharest apparent
ly is sealed. The Teutonic ad
vance on the city la going on un
checked. This announcement was
made by the Russiun war office to
day. Petrograd also mentions
Floesci, 33 miles north of Bucha
rest, as another point in the di
rection of which the invading
armies are moving without effec
tive opposition, "'loesci is on the
line of the only railway route of
retreat for the Rumanians operat
ing in the vicinity of Bucharest.
This threat seemingly means the
speedy abandonment of Bucharest
if the Rumanians expect to make
an effective retreat over the rail
road line toward Moldavia.
On the Macedonian front the
Serbian have captured the village
of Stravina, according to Serbian
report, and Paris announces prog
gress for tho French and Serbians
within the bend of the Cerna.
tioned in the Petrograd statement is a
. ... . . i
general one, pronaoiy tne ueienuers oi
the Rumanian capital Have retired to a
new line along the river Sabaru.
BRILLIANT SERBIAN VICTORY.
Bulgarians Are Said to Have Lost Heav
ily East of Cerna River.
Saloniki, via London, Dec. 5. The Ser
bian official communication issued yes
terday tells of the capture of heavily
fortified Bulgarian positions north ot
Cerna river in Serbian fighting lasting
of the
over several days In which the Bulga
rians suffered heavy 'casualties and lost
prisoners, guns, machine guns ana am
munition. The statement says:
"After sanguinary Sghting, lasting sev
eral days without interruption, despite
bad weather, the difllculties of terrain
and the desperate resistance of the ene
my, our troops by a brilliant attack
yesterday captured an entire series of
powerful" fortitled Bulgarian positions in
the region of Grunistite and Budimirtsa.
The ruins of the ancient fortress above
(irunishte are in our hands, and the Bul
garians are fleeing northward, leaving a
large number of dead on the battlefield.
"By this brilliant victory we captured
numerous guns, including five field guns
and five caissons, many machine guns,
including a quantity of ammunition and
other materials and a number of prison
ers which have not vet been counted. The
guns captured up to now number t9.
BLAME THE KING
For Riotous Outbreak in Athens, Say
Greek Dispatches.
London. Dec. 5. According to some
dispatches of the Athens correspondents
filed on Sunday at Piraeus, where the
allies control the telegraph lines, the sit
uation in Greece is one, justifying Lord
Robert Cecil's statement that it was of
extreme gravity for the allies.
These dispatches represent that last
week's fighting in Athens wag the result
of "a deliberate trap, treacherously pre
pared by the king and the government,"
25,000 troops being disposed around the
positions which Vice Admiral Du Fournet
had previously notified the Greek govern
ment he would occupy. These troops
then attacked the allies, who numbered
3,000. The latter fought until their am
munition was exhausted and then yield
ed, except a detachment of 100, who tried
to cut their way through. Only 30 of
these escaped.'
According to the tame accounts, King
Constant ine is quSetly mobilizing and
preparing for war against the allies, in
tending to co-operate with a section of
Field Marshal Von Mackensen's forces,
which is expected at Monastir front, by
attacking General Sarrail's flank.
It is also stated that the Greeks are
advancing on Piraeus.
ARTILLERY USED.
But Otherwise There Was Little Activi
ty on West Front.
Taris, Dec. 5. The bulletin issued by
the war office last night reads:
"There wa marked activity on the
part of both artilleries on the front
north of the Somme and in the region
of Vaux and Douaumont. Everywhere
else the day was calm."
Belgian communication:
"There was some artillery activity in
the region of Dixmude and in the direc
tion of Hetsas. Calm prevails on the
, ... i M 1
rest of the front."
POPE IN CONDEMNATION.
He
Denounced Aerial Bombardment
of
Open Cities.
Rome, Dec. 4. via Paris, Dec. 5. In an
elocution delivered before the secret con
sistory to-day. Pope Benedict denounced
the aerial bombardment of open cities
snl eondemned all those who, he said,
had defied the laws of God and man in
-
the prRent war.
HIS 20TH AIRPLANE,
INungesser of
French Service Brought
Down Two on Monday.
Paris, Dec. 5. Sub-Lieutenant Xun
tresser shot down two airplanes within
three hours yesterday, the war office an- j
nounces. lhis pnngs up to twenty me
number of airplanes brought to death by
this aviator.
LLOYD GEORGE WILL
LEAVE CABINET
Decides On That Action When Asquith
Would Not Agree to War Council
Without Himself as the Head.
London, Dec. 5. The Exchange Telc-
!praph company says that War Secretary
Lloyd George has decided to resk'n. His
resignation was drafted after he re-
,i, T V, i a -...... .
niiith mmil.i not aifree to the oui'irest i.m '
that a war council should be formed
without the premier at its head.
There will be
a special meeting of Min-
mient. No. 2. to nieht at
rnhsba enem
7 o'rloi k.
attend.
All patriarchs are invited tot
FROM CLERK
TO OIL KING
John D. Archbold, a Noted
Figure in Finance, Died
at Tarrytown To-day
AFTER OPERATION
FOR APPENDICITIS
His Wealth Is Estimated to
Be Close to $100,
000,000 Tarrytown, X. Y., Dec. 6. A noted
figure in the world's petroleum industry
was removed to-day when John D. Arch-
bold, capitalist, president of the Stand- were feelingly touched upon by Rev. Mr,
a nil , f v, .Wsev and a,Kcardon in acknowledging the gifts.
,
otlicer and director in various omer en
terprises, died at his home here after
two weeks' illness, subsequent to an op
eration for appendicitis. Death came at
4 o clock this morning.
Funeral services will be held here
Thursday forenoon and will be attended
by relutives and personal anq; business
1 (f'e!K'' ""''uding John D. and William
Rockefeller. During the services the in
dustries of the town will suspend.
John 1). Archbold was almost as close
ly identified with the history of the
Standard Oil as John D. Rockefeller him
self. Of the first nine trustees of the
"trust" formed in 1882 he alone remained
in this country until its dissolution in
1(11 at the order of the United States
supreme court, and it was he who was
named to engineer the dissolution, after
which he became president and director
of the Standard Oil company of New Jer
sey. He was the most active and agres
sive fighter in the oil combine, and in
variably represented the Standard Oil
on the witness stand in the numerous
hearings in connection with the govern
ment's suit to dissolve it.
This publicity was still further height
ened by the publication of a score or
more of letters from Mr. Archbold to
Joseph B. Foraker, then senator from
Ohio, Representative Joseph C. Sibley of
Pennsylvania anil other statesmen snow
ing that large sums of money had been
distributed for the alleged purpose of
influencing favorable legislation at Wash
ington. Mr. Archbold considered them
as attorney fees. The publication of
these letters eposed Mr. Archbold to at
tack from every quarter.
John Dustin Archbold was born Hi
Leeaburg, O., July 2, 1846, and was
working in a country store" at Salem, O.,
when he heard of the wonderful oil re
gions in western Pennsylvania, where
men were becoming rich over night. In
1864 he went to the oil fields and became
a refiner and buyer at Titusville. He
became the agent of a new company, the
Acme company, which proved to be an
offshot of the' Rockefeller interests, and
from that time, in 187.", until his death
he was an associate of the Rockefellers.
It has been estimated that his for
tune, made almost entirely in oil and
its by-products, was nearly $100,000,000.
Although Mr. Archbold was not particu
larly conspicuous as a benefactor, he
made many large gift, including a sum
of $400,000" to Syracuse university in one
lump, besides annual donations of small
er amounts. He was also a church mem
ber and a liberal contributor to religious
work.
He was married in 1870 to Miss Annie
Mills of Titusville, Pa., and maintained
a beautiful estate at Cedar Cliff, Tarry
town, and a home at Southampton, Long
Island.
PROMINENT HOTEL
MAN DIED TO-DAY
George C Boldt, Proprietor of Waldorf
Astoria, Passed Away from
Heart Trouble.
New York, Dec. 5. George C. Boldt,
one of the country's foremost hotel men,
died of heart trouble to-day in a suite
of the Waldorf Astorta hotel, ot wnicn
, wag proprietor. He was also the pro-
. .... ... . e 1 t .1 .1
prietor of the Uel.evue-.trauora noiei
in Philadelphia, trustee of Cornell uni
versity anil president of the Holland li
brary at Alexandria Bayj, X. Y.
HUNTER WAS FINED
For Shooting on Sunday and Shooting
After Sundown.
Waterbyry, Dec. 5 The illegal shoot
ing of n fawn on Crossett hill Sunday
night was brought before Judge Harvey
of the Montpeiier municipal court, and
John Tomasj of Barre was fined $100 and
costs, making $108, and he was left in
.l,iirir nf Deontv Game Warden Parcher
The case whs that of shooting on Sunday
and shooting after sundown.
LIMITS POWER OF JUDGES.
Supreme Court Denies Their Right to
Suspend Sentences.
Washington, Dec. 5. Sustaining in ef
fect Attorney General Gregory's conten
tion that popular demands for recall of
judges is due to their usurpation of ex
ecutive authority, in a case against Fed-
ieral Judge John M. KilliU of Toledo, the
supreme court yesterday denied that ted
eral judges have inherent power indefi
nitely to suspend crimuiiU sentence.
Chief Justice White read the decision.
BILL DOOMS NATIONAL GUARD.
Senator Borah Seeks Repeal. of Provis
ions for Reorganization.
Washington, Dec. 5 Repeal of the sec-
linns of the army reorganization bill
dealing with the National (Juard will be
I asked in a bill Senator Borah, Idaho.
!ill introduce to-day.
"The time hs come," said Senator
'Borah, "to find out if we are atlie.l
with the National t.uar.l after
1 crimen t on the border."
the ex-
PASTOR AND WIFE
WERE HONORED
Rev. and Mrs. J. B. Reardon Reminded of
Their Silver Wedding Anniversary
When Many People Gathered.
Rev. and Mrs. John B. Reardon were
advised of their 25th wedding anniver
sary in a very happy fashion last even
ing when more than 150 people came to
gether in the parlors of the I'niversalist
church for an informal reception under
the auspices of the parish people and the
Otld Fellows. The silver anniversary had
brought together many of the townspeo
ple outside the parish and the lodge, as
well as a number of the clergymen in
the i-it y. Ferns and cut flowers, with a
wealth of chrysanthemums, were used
with charming results in arranging the
vestry for the affair.
An impromptu program included en
joyable dialect readings by Dr. F. M.
Lynde, a rending by Miss Blanche J. Til
den and vocal solos by Miss Henrietta
Inglis. Upon Mrs. Stella Averill devolved
the pleasant duty of making a felicitious
speech for the guests assembled, and In
the course of her remarks she presented
the pastor and his wife a purse contain
ing $80 in silver. Mrs. Reunion whs also
the recipient of a handsome silver serv
ice. Five years of the pastoral relation
The remainder of the evening
was giv
en over to sociability, A number of the
ladieB served refreshments of coffee, cake
and sandwiches.
OTHERS MAY DIE.
As Result of Eating Meat of Bear Meat
Not Well Cooked.
Orleans, Dec. 5. The condition of
those suffering from trichinosis, the dis
ease that was contracted by eating bear
meat insufficiently cooked about two
weeks ago, is still serious. L. K. Heath
is very low and there is doubt of his re
covery. Mrs. Heath was reported as a
little "worse, although her condition for a
day or two has remained about the same.
The newest victim of the disease, that
of Mary Scalhurg, the young schoolgirl
who was working at the house at the
time the meat arrived, is reported as not
as well and evidences of the disease have
been growing stronger the past two days.
Mrs. Baldwin of Baldwin's Mills. P. Q.,
wife of the man who died from the dis
ease a few days ago, is in about the same
condition as she has been for the past
few days, the case having evidently made
no progress. She is still in bed.
Rev. W. S. Smithers, pastor of the
Methodist Episcopal church, and E. A.
Dimick were among those who ate of the
meat and all of them are naturally
watching developments closely as well as
nervously.
About'75 pounds of the meat was tak
en also to Barnston, P. Q., but to date
no one in that locality has had any bad
results as far as is known.
LAY FIRE TO TRAMPS.
$7,000 Loss Near St. Johnsbury Included
ISO Tons of Hay.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 5 The large three
story barn on the Tobias H. Lyster farm
was" burned early yesterday, together
with 150 tons of' hay, farm machinery
and several hogs. The loss is estimated
at about $7,000, partly covered by in
surance. Eighty-five head of valuable
cattle were taken from the barn.
A neighbor's dog barked all night,
leading to the theory that tramps
crawled into the hay to sleep. The fire
was discovered by one of the farm hands
at 4 o'clock.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Swan A. Peterson, Ryegate GtnHe Man
ufacturer, Fails.
Rutland, Dec. 5. Swan A. Peterson of
Ryegate, a granite manufacturer, yester
day filed a petition in bankruptcy with
Clerk F. S. Piatt of the United States
court. His liabilities are $4,682.23, and
he has assets of $4,335, of which $575
is claimed exempt. There is $3,175 in
preferred claims and unsecured credi
tors hold bills to the amount of $1,
113.70. The largest Vermont creditors
are: E. I Smith 4 Co., Rarre, $225.85;
Rosa Brothers, $380; N. D. Phelps, Barre,
$125.0S.
FUNERAL OF EDWARD D0CHERTY.
Was Held from His Late Home in Mont
pelier To-day.
The funeral of Edward Docherty, who
died at Montpeiier Sunday, was held this
afternoon from his late home on Foster
street, Rev. William Shaw, pastor of
Trinity M. E. church, officiating. The
bearers were a brother, James Docherty,
a cousin, John Docherty, and Charles
Reagan and Jesse Kellogg, representing
the street car employes. Interment was
in Green Mount cemtery.
SKULL WAS FRACTURED.
!Wnfa sttnek by Emery Wheel at Fair-
j v.-u. enn,
Mnks InoPs-
j st. Johnsbury, Dec. 5.M. Fre.l Du-
' hnU 97 vnnrs old. ami married, was se-
jrou,iv injured at the Fairbanks shop.
yesterday by the bursting of an emery
wheel. Pieces of the emery struck the
J man on the scalp and back of the head.
dieting a scalp wound and iraciurr. ne
',8 at p,rightIook hospital.
FARMERS CO-OPERATE.
Form
Orleans County Corporation
to
Handle Produce.
Articles of association were filed with
.. V.Tmont secretary of state to-day
for the Orlcan County Farmers' Co-op.
erst ii 'ii Exrhange. Inc.. of NeMrt. with
capital i-tck f .'". divided into one
hundred share. The purpose is to pnr-
I chase and sell grain, farm produce and
fertiliser, etc. The incorporators re '.;.
H. Bartlett of Orhans. 1. V . Richmond 1 1 be furni-hed by the said I entrai row
fnf ewprt. C. M. Borland of Wt ilov-!er Corporation of Vermont under this
er. William I-awson
(Tiarles
II. Root of Crattsoury.
To Attend International Conference.
F. S. Pease of the Vermont industrial
board left Vermont It night fi r Wh-
incton, D. C. to sttend the conference
i.f the International Ac:ation of In-
dustrial .Accident Boards.
FIX HEARING
ON POWER CO.
City Council to Permit Ex
pression of Views Dec. 12
on Proposed Franchise
50-CENT MIN IUM
.FOR HOT" .HOLDERS
Central Per Corporation
Must Jegin Before
.iy.l, 1918
All who are interested in the franchise
which the city council proposes to grant
the Central Power Co., which is seeking
the right to establish power lines from
East Middlebury to Barre, will have an
opportunity to express their views at a
public hearing to be held in the council
chamber at 0 o'clock on the evening of
Tuesday, Dee. 12. A few final stitches
at the regular council session last evening
and the city fathers announced that they
were ready to go before the people with
an instrument that is calculated to bring
relief to those who complain that present
power rates are well nigh prohibitive.
After so amending the draft prepared
by the city clerk and the legislative com
mittee a week ago as to establish a 50
cent minimum for meter service and to
provide for a forfeiture of $1,000 if the
power service is not available before July
1, 1918, a year later than the limit fixed
by the company in seeking the permit,
the council called it a job and the public
hearing was made possible through a mo
tion offered by Alderman Rossi. Tinker
ing with the franchise didn't begin as
early as usual last night because the
council lacked a majority at the outset.
Since the pursuit of big game was law
fully possible in the middle days of No
vember, Aldermen Bruce and Reynolds
have vibrated most of the time between
the woods and the village. It was Al
derman Reynolds who, paradoxically,
saved the day last night. Just as the
fathers were about to disperse, the fourth
ward senator appeared in a Daniel Boone
disguise with a fowling piece slung over
his fur-fringed mackinaw. After he had
explained who he was alW that the train
from the Duxbury woods bad just pulled
into the clearing.'the property eommitt
completed the identification by removing
his make-up and Alderman Reynolds waa
seated.
The Proposed Franchise.
Below is printed the proposed franchise
in full, and citizens who, perhaps for
their own peculiar reasons, may desire to
be present at the hearing next week will
serve themselves by giving it a thorough
perusal.
Whereas, the Central Power Corpora
tion of Vermont, a corporation duly or
ganized and existing under and by virtue
of the laws of the state of Vermont ana
with its principal office at Middlebury,
in the county of Addison, has petitioned
the city council of the city of Barre for
the right to enter the city of Barre with
its transmission and distribution lines
for the purpose of furnishing electric
light, power and heat within the city of
Barre, on the following named syeets or
portions thereof, viz.:
South Main street from the city limita
to Circle street,
Circle street,
Batchelder street between Circle and
Avers streets,
Boynton street,
Lower portion of West Patterson
street,
Trow avenue,
Nelson street, ,
Tremont street,
Westerly end of Sheridan street,
Northerly end of Wellington street,
Merchant street from Wellington to
Summer street.
Summer street from Merchant to Sem
inary street,
Seminary street from Summer street
northerly to North Main street,
North" Main street from the northerly
eml of Seminary street to Packard street,
Mill street,
South Main street from Hill street to
Jail branch,
Fairview street,
Burnham street,
Granite street,
Blackwell street,
Smith street,
and cross such street Intersections as
may be necessary to complete the above
circuit.
Therefore, be it resolved, That the city
of Barre hereby grants unto the said
Central Power Corporation of Vermont
for a term of 25 years the right to enter
the city of Barre and to construct and
maintain conduits and erect and main
tain poles and wires on, over and under
the aforeaid streets, and to sell, furnish
and distribute therefrom electric light,
heat and power, under the following con
ditions: That said Central Power Corporation
company shall have its plant Installed
and its" power in operation within the
citv of Barre before the first day of July,
1918, and in the event of its failing to
do so it shall pay unto the city of Barre
the sum of one thousand dollars.
That the price to be charged for all
heat and power for manufacturing pur
poses to be distributed over the lines
hereafter erected and constructed by said
Central Power Corporation company
within the city of Barre, shall not exceed
one and seven tenths cents per kilowatt
and for domestic purposes five cents per
kilowatt, and that the minimum charge
for current and meter service for domes
tic purposes shall not exceed the sum of
.V rent iwr month, and that the service
t ovenlrv ancllriaM or trancnis musi oe continuous.
i providential or other causes over which
the aforesaid corporation has no control,
alone excepted.
And in the event of said Central Tow-
. : .. ..- .
1 er Corporation of Vermont through the
negligence of itelf or its officers or by
.reason of its undertaking to stipply- more
" 1 "
(Continued on secona
