- -'-.,-'':' - -
VOL. LVIII. NO. 164
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., MONDAY, JULY 10, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's, Circulation in Norwich is Double f hat of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
GERMAN SUBMARINE RUNS BLOCKADE
The Deutschland Is at
Days'
WAS SCHEDULED TO
315 Foot Under-water Merchantman Slipped Past Virginia
Capes Early Sunday Morning, Carrying 750 Tons of
Dyestuffs, Chemical and Mail Went 800 Miles Out of
Course to Avoid Enemy Will Return With Nickel and
Crude Rubber,
Baltimore. July ?. The world's
first submarine merchantman, the
German undcr-wa::er liner DeutstJh-
land, anchored below Baltimore to
' night after voyaging safely across the
. Atlantic, passing the allied blockading
squadrons and eluding enemy cruisers
: watching for her off the American
coast. She: carries mail and a cargo
of 750 tons of costly chemicals and
cyesuifi's, and i3 to carry back home a
similar amount of nickel and crude
rubber sorely needed by the German
army.
Sixteen Days -from Bremerhaven. -
Sixteen days out from Bremerhaven
to Baltimore, tho submarine reached
safely between the Virginia Capes at
1:45 o'clock this morning, passing in
' on the surface covered by a heavy pail
; of darxness which settled over the en
' trance of the bay with the setting of
a tell-tale half moon. Once inside,
the visitor threw caution aside and
began shrieking his siren, signalling a
pilot and at the same time attract
ing the attention of the tug Thomas
A. Timmons, which had been waiting
in the lower bay for nearly two weeks
to greet the Deutschland and convoy
her into port.
Three hours later, at 4:45 o'clock
this morning, the big submarine start
ed up the bay under her own power,
with the Gorman merchant flag flying
piloted by Captain Frederick D. Cooke
of the Virginia Pilots Association and
convoyed by the Timmons. She was
making more than twelve knots an
hour ancj could have docked in Balti
more tonight, hut arrangements had
teen made for receiving her with for
mal ceremonies tomorrow and her
captain was ordered to wait in the
lower harbor. He and his crew of 29
men remained aboard their craft.
Pursued By Coast Guard Cutter.
Regarding his vessel as a mer
chantman subject to no unusual re
strictions, the skipper, whose name is
eaid to be Captain Kairig, went up
the Chesapeake without waiting to
notify local customs and quarantine
authorities of his presence. He was
live hours away before Norman Ham
ilton, collector of s'orfolk--'cwport
News, heard the news and started on
bis trail atoar J the coast guard cut
ter Unondag.-i. At last reports tonight
the cutter had not approached the
fcubmurine and it is understood that
the merely was ordered out to keep
t range craft under surveillance as a
neutrality precaution. Quarantine and
port regulations will be complied with
when the vessel moves up to her dock
tomorrow.
Breaks Blockade on German Trade.
Little was ltnown here tonight about
what hapotned during the epoch
making cruise across the ocean, which
in. a small measure at least breaks the
blockade on German trade with the
rest of the world. Xone of the sub
marine's crew had landed and the
agents of her owners had received oil'
ly meagre reports. Such information
as was available came indirectly from
the pilot and from Captain Hans F
Iiinsch of tho North German Lloyd
liner Neckar, laid up here since the
beginning of the war. t'aptan Hinsch
boarded the Deutschland from the tug
and made the trip up the bay with her
According to the accounts reaching
here, the under-water liner's super
structure was standing fifteen feet
bbove the water when she came in.
Vntil daylight she showed no flag, but
the German merchant ensign was
raised at sun-up. Stories were cir
culated that 'British or French cruis
ers chased her at sea Thursday, but
could net be confirmed.
Company to Handle Under-water Bus
iness. The boat is consigned to A. Schu
macher and Company, local agents ol
the North German Lloyd lino and her
cargo to the Eastern Forwarding Com
pany, a concern said to have been or
ganized within the past few weeks es
pecially to handle the business of
Under-water liners. The latter com
pany ha-s a pier and warehouse, in
Which are stored t'ho goods to be
leaded on the Deutschland for her re
turn trip.
Out of Course to Avoid Enemy,
In German quarters here the news
of the submarine's arrival was hailed
with the k x.nr-st delight. Those who
knew of her coming had been con
cealing alarm for two or three days,
as she was clue to arrive about the
middle of last week. It is understood
that she travelled more than 4,000
miles, going some 00 miles out of her
course to avoid enemy ships.
The Deutschland is no converted
war craft, but a brand new commerce
carrier, owned in Bremen and sent
here on a purely commercial mission,
according to Henry G. Hilken, the
senior member of the Schumacher con
cern. She belongs to the Ozean
Rhederei, Limited (Ocean Navigation
Company, Limited) and was launched
et Kiel in -March.
Idea Started Nine Months Ago.
The novel project was conceived
about nine months ago, Mr. Hilken
said, by F. A. Lohmann, head of a
Bremen exporting and importing con
cern who organized the Ocean Naviga
tion Company, dir. Lohmann ig the
eon of a famous director-general of
the North German Lloyd Steamship
Company ani has the important Ger
man commercial interests associated
with him.
Propelled By Oil Engines.
The undeir-sea liner, Mr. Hilken un
derstands, is about 315 feet long and
3" feet beam and is propelled by two
great Deisel oil engines. She is as
large if not larger than any of the
German naval submarines and carries
750 tons dead weight or cargo. As to
details of her construction Mr. Hilken
taid he was lacking in information.
'Ulost of the information that was
fent me," he said, "is probably care
illy tucked away in a pigeon hole of
Baltimore After Sixteen
Passage
ARRIVE LAST WEEK
the British admiralty office, but I don't
care now. The Deutschland is here
nevertheless."
IMr. Kilken is an American and his
firm has been in business here operat
ing ships under the American flag
since 1824. Carl A. Luederitz,
German consul, is a member of
the
the
firm.
A Purely Comercial Mission.
When she will return, whether it is
planned to have her make regular
trans-Atlantic trips, Mr. Hijken re
fused to say.
"This project was conceived," he
said, "by German commercial inter
ests who wanted to re-open trade
with the United States. We need some
of Germany's commodities and Ger
many needs some of ours. It is a
purely commercial proposition and
that is all there is to It. The time has
not yet come when Zeppelins car.
cross the ocean so these Bremen
merchants thought they would try a
submarine. I have kept the secret, of
course, all this time to insure the
success of the project. We expected
her several days ago. Her crew must
have endured great hardships and to
them the credit for the success of the
undertaking is chiefly due."
Public Will Be Excluded.
If present plans are carried out, the
public will not be allowed to inspect
the under-sea wonder, nor will any
body except the federal authorities be
allowed to board her.
The pier of the Eastern Forward
ing company was boarded up today to
shut out the view of the curious and
the Schumacher firm had arranged to
surround the pier tomorrow morning
w'.ih a cordon of police. Sir. Hi ken
will have at the pier a high powered
automobile to rush the Deutschland's
captain through the city on his erand
to the consulate and the custom house.
Six months ago :epr first came
t'-it Cermar.y -vas prepay uj to tut
inti the t'. ns Atlantic tr ie a . re cf
SL-iin.i'tMt? that would d.vxrf in -tze
o'.d j ehie- mc nts he IT boats 'vhi'S?
h. i.ve !?-. Germany's chief r i...fice in
V.i roi:Jnct of the great var -it fpa.
Lundor. cable reports told or .In . ii
ganization of a company to inauguate
such a service and English experts
were quoied as saying they felt no
surprise at thi : nnourceinent of the
plant', when word came that a sub
marine was actually about to leave for
this country, New York, Baltimore
and nearly every port along the coast
expected to receive her. With the
announcement of the organization,
heweve, it became virtually certain
that this port would be the objective
i. ft he extraordinary cruise.
SUBMARINE INFRINGES
ON AMERICAN PATENTS
Lake Company of Bridgeport May
Libel the Deutschland.
Bridgeport, Conn., July 9. The ar
rival of the fiVst German submarine
in Baltimore gives promise of the
starting of international law suits that
may have a wide bearing on sub
marine boat patents throughout the
world.
The Lake Submarine Torpedo Boat
Company of this city began to act im
mediately on receipt of the news,
through The Associated Press, of the
arrival of the Deutschland in Chesa
peake Bay. Simon Lake, treasurer of
the company said that the under
water boat very likely would be lib
elled in Baltimore in an effort to es
tablish the American patents on his
type of boat. Mr. Lake and F. B.
Whitney, ciiief counsel for the com
pany, and M. D. Blondel, another at
torney, will leave for Baltimore to
morrow to conduct their investigation
there and decide then whether legal
action will be started.
The Lake Submarine Torpedo Boat
Company holds no patents in Ger
many, though it is understood that all
the German boats are built on the
Lake fundamental principles of even
keel boats. The Lake people applied
for patents in Germany several years
ago, it is said, but before the patents
were granted some international com
plications interfered and since that
time no action has been token by the
German authorities and the American
and other patents held by the Lake
people have had no effect in Germany.
The presence of the first German
built submarine in American waters,
however, it is believed, will give jn
opportunity to test the effect of Amer
ican patents on trans-Atlantic ser
vice. The effect of a libel on the Deutsch
land, Mr. Lake said, would not inter
fere with her unloading or future
movements. A bond probably would
be filed to cover the libel and the boat
itself would be released under the
bond.
Mr. Lake declared he was not at all
surprised by the long voyage of the
under-water boat. At the present
stage of the development of submar
ines, he said, bize was about the only
thing needed to allow long voyages and
the carrying of cargoes up to 6,000
tons.
CRUSHED RIDING ON
TROLLEY RUNNING BOARD
Rocky Hill Young Man Fatally Injured
at Cromwell.
Mitfdletown, Conn., July 9. Willard
Hick of Rocky Hill is m a dying con
dition at the Middlesex hospital to
night as a result of being crushed be
tween a trolley car on which he was
riding and the platform of the freight
station at Cromwell on the New Ha
ven road last night. Hick was riding
on the running board.
His spinal column ts fractured, It
was said at the hospital and he has
other serious injuries, which make his
recovery very doubtful.' H is about
Z0 years old-
Cabled. Paragraphs
British Steamship Captured by Ger
mans. Berlin, July 9. (Via Wireless to
Sayville). The British steamship
Pendennis, 2123 tons gross, with a
cargo of timber from Gothenburg for
Hull, has been captured by a German
warship off the Norwegian coast and
brought to a German port.
LEAVE CAMP HOLCOMB
ON TUESDAY MORNING
Remaining Connecticut Militia Will
Join Comrades at Nogales, Ariz.
Camp Holcomb, iNiantic, July 9.
Each recruit company at Niantic and
Company M of Winsted received care
ful inspection yesterday by Colonel
Tilson of the inspector-general's of
fice of the department of the east at
Govemer's Island. He spent the en
tire afternoon looking over the com
panies, which were lined up, one at
a time, and was accompanied on his
tour by Lieut. Colonel Edward A.
Shuttlewortli and iMapor J. R. North,
U. S. A., in comand of the camp. In
speaking to Lieut.-Colonel Shuttle
worth, Colonel Tilson emphasized the
necessity for each man being equipped
with towels, soap, a razor and an ex
tra suit of underwear. They have al
ready received the extra, underwear.
Lieut.-Colonel Shuttleworth said to
day that everything would be on the
move from Xiantic early Tuesday
morning and he hoped to have the
camp cleared by 3 o'clock Tuesday
afternoon. He expected to hear from
the railroad company regarding routes
and other details some time today.
Lieut-Colonel Shuttleworth said, to
day, that according to present indi
cations he would 'be too busy to leave
with Company M, First Connecticut
infantry of Winsted and the six re
cruited companies, Tuesday. He said
that the men would join their own
companies on their arrival in Nogales,
which, he declared, would undoubted
ly be the objective point. Lieutenant
Colonel Shuttleworth worked tireles---iv
and ceaselessly throughout the day.
and most of the time he was surround
ed by from three to a half-dozen offi
cers, who were wafting for further
instructions or came to inquire about
maters of more or less importance.
OVERCOME WITH CRAMPS;
DROWNED IN LAKE
Meriden Bather Loaves a Wife and
Four Children.
Meriden. Conn., July 9. Overcome
with cramps while in bathing, Bryan
O'Looney, aged 50, was drowned at
Beaver Lake today. He left home
early in the morning and his cloth
ing was found on the shore shortly
after 6 o'clock this evening and the
body was soon recovered. A widow
and four children survive him.
THE BORDER STATES.
Great Human Drama Being Ejpacted
Along 1,810 Mile Boundary Line.
(Special to The Bulletin.)
Washington, D. C, July 9. Many in
teresting facts about the border states
of the United States and Mexico have
been compiled and issued by the Na
tional Geographic Society today as a
war geography bulletin on that section
of the continent to which our National
Guard has been ordered. The bulletin
gives the following comparative sta
tistics: "While the whole of America is
vitally concerned in the present Mexi
can situation, the great human drama
is being enacted along the 1,810 mile
boundary line which separates the four
American border states of California.
Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, and
the five border states and one territory
of Mexico Lower California, Sonora,
Chihuahua. Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and
Tamaulipas. The area of the Ameri
can border states is a little more than
one-sixth the total area of the United
States, including Alaska, while the
area of the Mexican border states is
more than three-sevenths the total
area of that republic, yet the territory
embraced in the bounds of the Amer
ican states is almost twice as exten
sive as that of the six political di
visions of the smaller country.
"The population of the six Mexican
states is 1,700,000, compared with 6,
800,000 on the American side, the
former constituting about one-ninth
the total population of Mexico, while
the four American states have only
about one-fourteenth of the total pop
ulation of the northern republic.
"1c is an odd coincidence that the
four American states on the border are
with the exception of Montana and
the territory of Alaska, the four larg
est political divisions in the Vnion,
while three Mexican border states
Chihuahua, Coahuila and Sonoda and
the territory of Lower California are,
likewise, the largest divisions of that
republic.
"All of the American border states
were a part of the Mexican nation up
to the middle of the last century when
Texas seceded from the southern re
public and subsequently cast her lot
with the United States. Other terri
tory was acquired in the War of 1846,
the boundaries being fixed by the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo which fol
lowed, and by the Gadsden Purchase.
"The Rio Grande forms a natural
boundary line of more than 1,100 miles
separating Texas from the Mexican
states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Neuvo
Leon, and Tamaulipas, while the ar
bitrary boundary of nearly 700 miles,
zigzagging from El Paso to a point on
tho Pacific Coast about ten miles south
of San Diego, separates Kew Mexico,
Arizona and California from Chihua
hua, Sonora and Lower California.
"Five great railway arteries, over
which has flowed the commerce of the
two republics and which are of vital
Importance in all military operations,
cross the border at.BrownsvIlle. Laredo,
Eagle Pass, El Paso, and Nogales.
The corresponding Mexican towns are
Matamores, Nuevo Laredo, Ciudad
Porfirlo Diaz, Juarez, and Nogales, the
last named being bisected by the
boundary line. The main lines of four
of these railroads run In a general
north and south direction through the
states of Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila
and Nuevo Leon, but the line which
crosses the Rio Grande at Brownsville
runs west from Matamores through
Tamaulipas. Nuevo Leon, and Coa
huila, turning to the southwest at
Torreon" and extending through the
state of Durange.
"The month of the Rio Grande, which
marks the eastern end of the boundary,
is more than 450 miles nearer the
eauator than the western end of the
line."
The Issue In Brief.
The Issue between the United States
and Mexico is not one for mediation.
It is simply whether the murderer will
quit murdering and the robber rob-
pina.iujrhlpn irn
Early Action
on Appropriations
ARMY AND NAVY BILLS LOOM BIG
' ON PROGRAMME
MAY STAY TILL FALL
Democratic Leaders in Congress Fore,
see Resistance to National Defense
Measures as Increased in Senate and
to Shipping Bill.
Washington, July 9. Democrats in
congress are uniting their forces to
compel early action on the army and
navy appropriation bills, the revenue
measure and the government shipping
bill, which are the most important leg
islative matters remaining on the ad
ministration iprogram.
The national defense appropriations
whose totals as they passed the house
haver been vastly increased by senate
committees, are certain to meet stub
born resistance in conference. It also
is certain that the shipping bill will
encounter persistent republican oppo
sition in the senate. These prospects
have upset all adjournment predic
tions and all leaders are resigned to
the prospect of remaining here if nec
essary until fall, despite the national
political campaign.
NEW YORK DEATHS
NOW TOTAL 224
19 More Reported From Infantile Pa
ralysis, With 88 New Cases New
Haven Strict.
New York, July 9. Nineteen more
deaths from infantile paralysis in New
York city for the 24 hours ending t
JO o'clock this morning were reported
by the department of health tonight,
making the total fatalities 224. Tin re
was a drop in the nurr4br of new
cases, 83 being reporter! today against
9 5 the cay before. The total nutr.-be-
of cases now has reached 3S0. The
mortality rate is still about 23 per
cent. Brooklyn continues to lead in
the number of new cases.
New Haven, Conn., July 9.-Sring-ent
regulations to guard against infan
tile paralysis were put into effect here
today by the health authorities. When
the Richard Peck docked here today
on her regular trip from New York
she was met by representatives of the
health del ailment who refused to al
lew any children under 15 ysars eld
to land un'css they were coming he:e
fir Ji!Qit:ic destinatio-js, in which
cases tiro r ic-s and addresses were
taken so that further observation
could be made. As a result about a
hundred small children were compell
ed to remain on board the steamer to
gether with those who had them in
cht-r.-e until the vessel started on the
return trip.
X.iyVcfans were alst. at the rul
road station to examine as fir -n- ;--o?-rible
imall children comin? in from
-.v York by'train.
GERMAN CASUALTIES
OVER 3,000,000.
Nearly Two Million Have Been Re
ported Wounded Since the War Be
gan. London, July 9, 7.20 p. m. German
casualties from the beginning of the
war to the end of June as computed
fn.:n ('f: oiai German lists, are given
as S.012,637 in an official statement
made public here today. This an
nouncement follows:
"German casualties reported in Ger
man casualty lists exclusive of cor
rections, in the month of June fol
lok :
"Died of wounds and sickness 18.
5S5: prisoners and missing 6,279,
wounded fiS.l.S7; total 88051.
"These, added to those reported in
previous months and including cor
rections reported in June, 116, bring
the total reported in German official
lists since the beginning of the war
to: Died of wounds and sickness, 757,
327; prisoners and missing 342,673;
wounded 1.912,637; total 3,012.637.
"There figures include all German
na( ionalities Prussians, Barva rians,
Saxons, and Wurttembergers. They do
not include naval casualties or casual
ties of colonial troops. They are not
an estimate by the British authorities,
but merely casualties announced in
German official lists."
WILL OF MRS. E. N. GIBBS
DISPOSES OF LARGE ESTATE
Sum of $100,000 Left to Son-in-law,
Charles H. Sherril!1 'Residue to His
Wife Yale Loses Big Bequest.
New York, July 9.
The will of Mrs. Sarah Barker
Gibbs, widow of Edward N. Gibbs, for
merly of Norwich, who died in New
York May 21, was probated in that
city Saturday and shows an estate of
more than $100,000. Charles II. Sher
rill of 20 East 65th street, son-in-law,
receives $100,000, the residue going to
Mr. Sherrill's wife, George Gibbs Sher
rill. Part of the estate consists of a
number of painting's, rare becks, por
celains, and bronzes.
If Mrs. Sherrill had died before her
mother the entire estate would have
passed to the iSchool of Fine Arts at
Yale Univrsity for the erection of a
building to contain the collection of
eighteenth century French furniture
owned by the university.
YAQU1 INDIANS
RAID AMERICAN LANDS
Took Advantage of Withdrawal
Mexican Troops.
of
Mazatlan, Mexico, July 9. (By Ea
dia to San Diego, Calif.) Yaqui In
dians, taking advantage of the with
drawal of Mexican troops from iSouth
ern Sonora, are reported here to have
crossed the Yaqui river and invaded
the lands of American settlers and
the Richardson Construction company,
devastating all the territory except
company headquarters at Esperanza,
where a Mexican garrison is main
tained. Found Drowned In Connecticut.
Thompsonville, Conn., July 9. The
body of a boy apparently about 7
years old, was found In the Connecti
cut river near here today. It is be
lieved to be that of Stephen Wojcki of
Holyoke, Mass., who was drowned
there on July . 3 while swimming in
by Electric Storm
DANBURY FAIR BUILDING WAS
BURNED TO THE GROUND
LOSS IS OVER $25,000
Exhibitors Lost as Well as Fair Asso
ciation St. Peter's Church in Tor
rington Was Hit and Set Afire
Meriden in Path of Sunday's Storm.
Danbury, Conn., July 9.The main
exhibition building on the Danbury
fair grounds, containing permanent
booths, space for temporary booths,
the art gallery and horticultural sec
tion, was struck by lightning and was
burned to the ground during a heavy
thunder storm early today, together
with the administration building and
a large restaurant which formed a
part of the group. The loss is esti
mated at about $25,000 to the fair as
sociation, but as a number of exhibi
tors had property in the buildings
which w-as also destroyed it is believed
the total damage will be considerably
in excess of that figure.
All the buildings were of frame con
struction. The lightning struck a
tower on that part of the building in
which the fair ground police head
quarters is located and soon after
wards the fire broke out.
The dog and poultry buildings close
by caught several times but firemen
saved them by the use of chemicals.
Xo water was available .
The grandstand and horse sheds are
some distance away and were not
endangered.
The fair association announced that
rebuilding would be begun at once.
Torrington Church and House Burned
Torrington, Conn., July 9.-A two
and a half story building here under
construction for Henry Conforti was
burned early today. The fire was
started by lightning during a storm.
St. Peter's Roman Catholic church
close by was somewhat damaged by
fire.
Meriden in Darkness Houses Hit.
Meriden, Conn., June 9. At least
four places were struck by lightning
here tonight. The entire western sec
tion of the city was thrown into dark
ness shortly after 6 o'clock when a
bolt struck an electric light pole near
the center of the city. Two chimnevs
located in opposite parts of the city
were knocked over and a large por
tion of the brickwork was torn from
a corner of the new addition to the
Bradley and Hubbard factory.
FURTHER CHANGES
IN BRITISH HEADS
Montague Succeeds Lloyd George as
Minister of Munitions, Wood Re
placing Him.
London, July 9, 7.45 p. m. Follow
ing the appointment last week of Da
vid Lloyd George as secreary for war,
official announcement was made today
of several other changes in the gov
ernment. ; Edwin Samuel Montague,
financial secretary to the treasury,
takes Lloyd George's place as minis
ter of munitions. Thomas McKinnon
Wood, secretary of state for Scotland,
becomes chancellor of the Dutchy of
Lancaster and financial secreta.rv to
the treasury. Harold J. Tennant, 'par
liamentary under-secretary for war, is
matte secretary of state for Scotland.
"In view of the very heavy respon
sibilities of the treasury during the
the announcement con'.'r.u--?.
"Pdemier Asquith has invited Mc
Kinnon Wood to return to h,s former
pos- of financial secretary.
"Mr. Asquith has invited Lord Cur
Jion to become a permanent member
cf - the war committee."
War Manouvrea Around Block Island
Newport. R. I., July 5. The Atlan
tic fleet of fifty vessels under com
mand of Admiral Henry T. Mayo, will
leave here early tomorrow for a week
of manoeucres in the vicinity of Block
Island. The problem which has been
prepared for the fleet at the nival
war college, will give the mining di
vision a prominent part in the
manoeuvres.
Unconscious From Farr Down Stairs.
Middletown, Conn., July 9. Miss
Harriet I. Grumpet, of Orange. N. J..
27 years old, fell down a flight of
cellar stairs at the home of a friend
here last night and is now in a sfrlom
condition at the hospital 'juffering
from concussion of the brain.
EFFICIENCY EXPERTS
IN DETROIT.
World's Salesmanship Congress Opens
Today With Speech by Wilson.
Detroit, Mich., July 9. Thousands
of Detroit residents ana! visitors at
tending religious services at churches
and in other buildings today listened
to unusual sermons by trained lay
men efficiency everts who are here
to attend the World's Salesmanship
Congress which will open tomorrow.
The keynote or these sermons was
"The Ethics of Salesmanship.'" Some
speakers took their quotations from
the Bible; others used savings' of not
business men. The first session
will be preceded tomorrow by an ad
dress by President Wilson. The pres
ident is due to arrive in Detroit at
10 am. m.. Is to be driven Immediately
to the convention hall. After he
speakes he will be the gaiest of honor
at a luncheon. Before he returns to
Washington at 4 p. m. he may address
the employes of the Ford Motor com
pany at the plant.
Attempt to Assassinate Argentine
President.
Buenos Aires, July 9. An attempt
to assassinate President Victorino de
la Plaza was made today by a self
styled anarchist. The orsidedt was
standing on a balcony of'the govern
ment building reviewing some troops
when a man in the crowd of specta
tors suddenly drew a revolver and
fired at him. The shot went wild and
the would-be assassin was arrested.
The attempt to assassinate the
president occurred while Buenos Aires
was celebrating the hundredth anni
versary of the independence of Ar
gentine. Dr. de la Plaza was defeated
for a second term in a bitterly con
tested election last June in which the
radical candidate was elected. Pres
ident de la Plaza leaves office on Oc-
Condensed Telegrams
There is now $485,000,000 in the
Denver mint.
The British merchant steamer Gan
r.et has been sunk by subamrine.
The United States government has
purchased 355 Peerless motor trucks.
All stocks of sole leather have been
commandeered by the British govern
ment. German warships captured the Brit
ish steamship Lestris near the Eng
lish coast.
The United States cruiser Des
Moines arrived at Villefranche, France,
from the Far East. -y
Four residents of Jacksonville, Fla.,
are dead as the result of the torren
tial rain and wind storm.
President Wilson returned to public
entry a total of 1,913,708 acres of land
in Wyoming and Montana.
Several strong earthquake shocks
have occurred in the Neopolitian and
Calabrian provinces of Italy.
Breeding cattle and heifers brought
six times their normal price at the
recent auction at Koenigsberg, Ger
many. Fifteen hundred cats and dogs are
being killed daily in New York in the
fight against the infantile paralysis
plag-ue.
Motor boats are patrolling the Jersey
coast resorts to try to kill the man
eating shapk which has killed two men
this week-.'
Fred Robinson, nine, of Highland
Park, N. J., was drowned whe nhe fell
into the Raritan, while stepping from
stone to stone,
Joseph Ramsey, president of the
Loraine, Ashland & Southern railroad,
died suddenly of apoplexy at his home
in East Orange.
Mexican authorities at Manzanillo
returned all American-owned gold and
silver bullion valued at $500,000, which
they had seized.
Summer maids with dimpled knees
have been ordered to stop parading the
beach at Atlantic City, N. J., in ab
breviated bathing costumes.
The 2th Illinois regiment, a negro
unit, arrived at San Antonio, Texas,
and encamped at Fort Sam Houston.
All the officers are negroes.
Stranded on a reef in the Sulu Sea
near Zamboanga, on June 23, the Span
ish steamer Fernanda Poo has slipped
off the reef and is a total loss.
Michael Gico. a laborer of No. 636
East 14th street, New York, was shot
and fatally wounded by Tony Kerris,
of the same address. Ferris escaped.
As a result of the congestion of
freight channels caused by the gen
eral strike of longshoremen, San Fran
cisco is facing a sugar and salt short
age. A committee of the Franco-American
Flying Corps will present money
prizes to members of the corps upon
whom war decorations have been con
ferred. James Whartenby, of Philadelphia,
a summer resident of Spring Lake, N.
J., presented the town with a lot up
on which a $42,000 hospital will be
erected.
Edward B. Mc Lean began proceed
as the works of famous German mas
ters, were placed on trial in Munich.
Cincinnati Enquirer and the Washing
ton Post.
Henry A. Bueck, Bismarck's adviser
when he abandoned free trade and be
gan his campaign for the establish
ment of national industries, died in
Berlin, aged 26.
Nashville's treasury was looted of
$71,177 by city officials from 1.909 to
1914, according to the final report re
ceived by the city commission from an
expert accountant.
Dr. Charles Aked of San Francisco
and Miss Emil Balch of Wellesley col
lege, American delegates to the Ford
conference for continuous mediation,
sailed from Stockholm for the United
States.,
A German aeroplane appeared over
the English coast yesterday but was
driven off and dropped no bombs. Anti-aircraft
guns fired on the aeroplane
which turned seawards, chased by
British machines.
Ludwig W. Lehmann and his wife,
accused of painting and selling more
than 200 pictures, representing them
father, John R. McLean, owner of the
in an effort to break the will of his
ings in the District of Columbia courts
The pope is continufng his efforts
for peace and has sent instructions to
the bishops to devote the last Sunday
of the second year of the war to a
general communion of children. This
service is to be celebrated in all the
dutches of Europe.
The young man who lost his life at
Bridgeport while trying to save an
other man from drowning in the har
bor was identified as Michael Pine. 22
years old, of Worcester, Mass. Pine
had already received two medals for
saving persons from drowning. He
tried to save James Sullivan, 55 years
old.
Matthew Hale of Boston, acting
cha!ryi.n of the progressive national
committee, made public a statement to
delegates of the progressive national
committee criticising the endorse
ment of Charles E. Hughes by the
committee,. He has conferred recent
ly with Vance McCormick, chairman
of the democratic national committee.
Large Carranza forces, better or
ganized and more completely equip
ped than any other units of the de
facto government's troops, are clos
ing ?n on the bandits of southern Chi
huahua and northern Durango, with
the intention of wiping them out.
Shot by Her Brother-in-law.
Bridgeport, Conn., July 9. (Mrs.
Julius Mersans, who was shot three
times by her brother-in-law, Samuel
Mersans, last night, is in a very seri
ous condition in a local hospital. One
bullet entered her breast, another her
thigh and the third wounded her arm.
Little hope lss held out for her recov
ery, Samuel Mersans killed himself
immediately after the shooting, which
followed a -demand for money which
Mis. MratifiLrefiised.
Surprise Attack by the
Mile
FRENCH RETURN TO OFFENSIVE ON WEST FRONT
German Trenches for Two Miles and a Half Have Been Cap
tured, With Village of Biaches British Are Making
Steady Progress and Fierce German Counter-Attacks
Break Down Under Their Guns Russian Drive Sweep
ing on With Increasing Power, But Austrians Claim Suc
- esses in Southern Bukowina and on Italian Front.
The French have returned to the
offensive south of the Somme and
have captured German trenches over
a distance of about two and a half
miles east of Flaucourt and to a depth
ranging from about two-thirds of a
mile to a mile and a third. They also
captured by storm the village of Bia
ches. The French have thus resumed their
co-operation with the British who
have been engaged in fierce fighting
in the neighborhood of Ovillers, where,
the statement from the British war
office says, they have again made
"steady progress" in the face of stub
born opposition."
The German heavy guns have been
bombarding all along the British front
more actively than ever and the Ger
mane, in two violent counter-attacks,
have made a desperate effort to re
take the positions captured by the
British Saturday near the Trones
Wood. Both attacks came under a
severe and effective fire from British
guns and the British assert, complete
ly broke down.
Regarding these operations German
headquarters, while admitting the loss
of ground in the Hardecourt village,
declares that both British and French
attacks were repelled with very heavy
losses at other points.
The losses on all sides are doubtless
heavy and that the British are pay
ing the price of their forward move
ment is indicated by the casualty lists
of the last four days, which report 628
British officers killed, wounded or
missing.
The drive of the Russian armies
along the whole of the eastern front
is greater than ever. Apparently it is
sweeping on with increasing power.
The Russians have crossed at Ugli,
which lies a few miles south of the
railroad, but the Austrian official
statement mentions fighting at Stoby
chwa, west of the Stokhod, which in
dicates that the Russians have crossed
the river about thirty miles northeast
of Kovel. The Russian line, therefore,
in this region evidently is a very ex
tended one.
The Associated Press correspondent
at Petrograd says that a surprise at
tack delivered along the Sarny-Kovel
line, while the Austro--Germans were
engaged in defending the Rovno-Kovel
line, netted a clear advance to the
Russians of fifteen miles. Official
Russian despatches say that on the
lower Stokhod the Teutonic forces are
retiring in great disorder.
The Austrians have not only been
successful in resisting the Russian ad
vance in southern Bukowina, which
crown land the Russians hoped soon
to clear of their adversaries, but un
dertaking an offensive, have succeed
ed in forcing their way across the
Moldava river. The Austrian artillery
has also been very active against the
Italians along the Isonzo front.
Russians Join French on West Front.
Paris, July 9. The Excelsior says
the Russian contingents which arrived
in France recently and have been
quartered at Camp de Mailly, near
Troyes, have been sent to Join the
French forces at the front.
Five contingents of Russian troops
landed at Marseilles between April 20
and May 5, after a land and sea jour
ney of about 17,500 miles from Mos
cow to Port Dalny, Manchuria, and
thence by water via the Suez Canal.
The sending of the Russian troops was
largely in the nature of an experi
ment. It was said in Paris several
weeks ago that the first Russian con
tingents, numbering (probably about
25,000 men, might be followed by more
numbers, but no word has been re
ceived of further arrivals.
ENEMY RETIRING IN DISORDER
AS RUSSIANS ADVANCE
Losses On the Eastern Front Give
Anxiety to the Central Powers.
London, July 9, 10:25. p. m. The
eastern front continues to overshadow
the western from the spectacular view
point, the Russian forces going from
success to sucess. General Detchitzky,
in the south, now has occupied the
railroad junction at Delatyn, west of
Kolomea, cutting off General von
Eothmer from his suply base and
General Brussillofr, in the north, is
making surprising advances on both
sides of the Kovel railway towards the
Stokhod River.
Tonight's Russian communication
reports the enemy forces in this re
gion retiring in great disorder and
adds that the Russians have occupied
Huleviche, about twenty four miles
east of Kovel, while apparently the
Russians already are across the Stok
hod Rivr somewhere in the region of
Janovka.
German possession of Baranovichi
and Kovel are absolutely essential if
she is to retain her hold ever the in
vaded parts of Poland and Lithuania,
but it is considered likely that it is
only a matter of a few days before the
Russians wil be in possession of Ko
vel, whiafe Would compel von Linsin
gen's retfretnnt from the Lutsk sa
lient. -
Anxiety" Reflected in Despatches.
German official and unofficial des
patches reflect anxiety over the Rus
sian advance as being greater than
over the Anglo-French offensive
)llilllflt riliwi' IUlMI'y t.M mmm
Russians Gives a Fifteen
Gain
tend will not Interfere with the opera
tions against Verdun. Major iMoraht
and other German critics express sur
prise at the extent and persistence of
the Russian offensive and the endless
resources of ammunition.
It is reported from Rome that a
recent council of German., and Aus
trian marshals, Von Hlndenburg de
clared that it would be impossible to
attempt a new offensive on a large
scale without reinforcements of at
least a quarter of a million men.
Tho news of today shows little
change in the relative positions on
the western front. Berlin admits the
loss of Hardecourt.
The Rumanian government, accord
ing to a erne despatch, has declined
an invitation from the German and
Austrian governments to participate in -
a conference of the Danube powers.
GERMANS KEEP GRIP
ON VERDUN AND THE SOMME
Berlin Feels That Situation Is Well
In Hand, Despite the Allies' Blows.
Berlin, July 8, via London, July 9,
9:35 p. m. The eyes of Germans -were
turned today toward the eastern rath
er than the western front. The weight
of tho first onslaught in the west is
believed to have been fully estimated
and, in spite of whatever surprises
their strategy may still have in store,'
public and expert opinion here is
confident of the outcome. It is be
lieved that the eixth army and re
serves have the situation well in hand
on tihe Somme front and that nothing
can interfere with the progress of the
Verdun campaign.;
In the east, however, a great gen
eral offensive has burst forth all along
the line from Riga to Rumania. Wave
after wave of Russian flesh and steel
is rolling against the Teuton dyke
which stretches across the Russian
provinces. Thrust follows thrust in
constant succession and, no sooner do
the Germans succeed in walling the'
advance at one threatened point, than
another menaces.
German Reserves at Weak Points.
The most striking results thus far
manifested have been seen in the
leadership and distribution of the
forces of the central powers rather
than in the actual movement of the
contending armies. With the excep
tion of General Pflanzer, commanding
a small group at the extreme southern
end of the line, the Austro-Hungarian
units everywhere are interwalled by;
Germans, who have- furnished re-j
serves to bolster up particularly'
threatened points.
At the very outset of the Russian
offensive General Pflanzer detached;
divisions to relieve the hard pressed'
Archduke Joseph Ferdinand and his'
operations near the mainly directed j
defense of the 'Carpathian forests and!
passes into Hungary.
Astonished at Russian Resources.
It is betraying no secret to say that
the German leaders have been aston' !
ished at the recuperative powers of .
the Russians and their freely flowing
reservoirs of both men and muntions. j
Time after time it seemed as if the
Russians must be nearing their last
resources in shells and reserves, time. I
and again correspondents at Austrian '
headquarters reported that the Rus-1
sian troops were losing their vim and'
striking power, only to chroncle a day '
or two later a new onslaught witii;
fresh troops, freely supported by ar-'
tillery. ';
Verdun Campaign Not Checked. j
Despite the various Russian g-ain, '
however, which, when marked on the
map of the eastern front make a com- j
paratively smal showing for such a
colossal expenditure of blood and iron, ;
no uneasiness is manifested here. The
general offensive of all fronts simul
taneously has compelled the Germans
to discontinue their favorite railroad
strategy but the strategic defence,'
which the Germans deliberately chose
on the eastern and general western
fronts, has so far proved adequate to ;
hold up the allies' offensive and has
net interfered with the continuance of
the German assault againt Verdun. ;
To such an extent is this true that :
the Germans still retain the strategic
initiative and show no indication of
relaxing their grip on the great
French fortress.
1,400 NEW HOUSES
FOR WATERBURY SOON
Manufacturers Are Behind the Plan
to Relieve Congestion.
Waterbury, Conn., July 9. The Wa
terbury Republican tomorrow will
say: "To relieve the acute housing
conditions in this city it is announced
by a person in authority that manu-1
facturers will back building operations ;
which call for the erection of 1,400
houses before snowfall.
"The Scovill Manufacturing Com
pany, one of the largest concerns mak
ing ijrass in the world, the American
Brass company and the Chase inter- !
ests, brass manufacturers, are the con- 1
cerns who will back the venture." !
Steamship Arrivals.
New York, July 9. Arrived: Steam
ers Philadelphia; .. Liverpool; Stamp
