DEATHS FROM INFANTILE PARALYSIS NOW 238
vVKATHKM 4he' te-nliM Tn
JTOTOV
"CircuJntltm JUmUh Ojxn u All."
"Clrcuttitltm lUml Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT. !Kl,tr" NEW YORK, MONDAY, JULY iO, 131S. 12 PAOES PRICE ONE CENT.
ZT ,
VM
M
SUBMARINE CAPTAIN'S STORY
OF THRILLING TRIP ACROSS SEA
WILL ASK CONGRESS 10 GIVE
$100,000 10 FIGHI PLAGUE
0 INFANTILE PAML
SIS
First Photo of German Submarine Liner
That Crossed the Ocean Her Commander
- r-
Kttlth Service Heads Also
Want Power to Comman
deer Private Physicians.
FEWER DEATHS HERE.
New Cases Increasing, Espe
cially in Brooklyn Closing
Several "Movie" Shows.
SOVEREIGNTY
OP
MEXICO
1
IfAflHlNOTON, July 10. Public
with Sorvlco hcada to-day decided
to Mk Congress for u 1100,000 appro-
Jftetion and permission to draft phy
Willi from oWII llfo to lift tho In-
iamUla paralysis opldomlo raging m
Now Tork and other oltlcs.
, The. Sonata to-day unanimously.
aloDted tho O'Uunimu resolution'
I f authorising tho uso of tho hospital and
lUMOtlon faollttloa ut ICIIIh Island to
hook tho lnfuatllo paralysis opldomlo,
Is Wm VnrV I
RESPECTED'-WILSON
President Makes Declaration
for Benefit of Jhose Who
Would Butt In."
GIVES PEACE MESSAGE.
At Salesmen's Congress He Hits
Men of Provincial Minds
T ells of Business Future.
DHTItOlT, July 10. Presldont "WIN
aou to-day an.'i wo rod Col. Poose volt's
Dr. William C. Iluukor, Assistant prlt of militancy with a mossago of
Jira.n.ral.to.duyrooommo.ulod 8poaklng to 3.D00 persons who
Hunt eaoh person suspootod or tiotng
oarrlor of thn dlsousu bo pluood Waked Arcadia llall-hundrods of
jauar observation and thut nil railway whom woro dologatos to tho World's
AMMOgor oara louvinir iNw xorn. Salesmanship Congross-tho President
.muwaunu iiiarn ia IX. 1.1 tUMUWiiiiu V w i . i . . . . .
toes SB, bo thoroughly clounod. .... .....
" i that rulu opportunity for progress In
IfaurtMB deaths was yostcrday's . trado and civilisation
Ml la tho taSantilo paralysis epldumlc
la Oroator Now York. This was a
1 off of llvo from tho figures or
6ay before. Tho doutha occur-
In tho twenty-four hours which
, at 10 o'clock this morning wore
distributed aa follows: llrooklyn, nine,
90 against fourteen tho day before;
Manhattan, three, thu sumo us the
aylous day's nguroj Hlchmond, one,
) the aajno as the duy before, and
tfvs Bronx, one. Queens reported no
toattoa yesterday.
Tho, total of deaths since tho op!.
gesKlo started has now roachod 338.
Brooklyn experienced a slight In
MM la aew cases yesterday, to.
ft figures showing sixty. cltrht la
.Kb 1 . . itn.tilv.fnii. V n 1 1 r. THnrn
Bad bean alxty-six reported In tho
previous days IlKUrcs, Manhattan,
the contrary, showed thirty now
(sues, as urrulnst eight In the pro.
ffWous list. Queens foil from eight
Hlchmond has
and thcro uro no now oases hi the
Bronx.
This makes a total of 103 now cases
to all boroughs, as compared with
eighty-eight In tho twonty-four hours
previous. Tho grand total of cusos
reported to date Is 1,083.
Health Commissioner Kmoraon said
to-day: "Wo uro holding our own In
the fight on Infuntllu pimilysls, hut
until we con report n consistent dim
inution of deaths for r period of
reeks I alli not say that the opl
lemlc Is under control: We are roach
Ing the cases rapidly, we havo plenty i
of toospltul uccommodutlons for them, j oodt,nd In to doing attempt to
and we have Informed tho Hod Crow, , eonvert thom l0 tho principu. of
lo-uuy iiiiii n ncrvirrs no uinuiy i merlca."
offered will not bo iierossury." I Tno President nounded a call to
Llcenso Comml.ssl.-mer Hell to-duy ' mcn ot ,h8 worla t0 rfNlonj
announced that ho Had closed two ,Q tll nw ,icnun,,B of ,Hirmun."hlp.
moving picture houses on Columbia ..T1,CH ro days of Inralcuhihlo
wtrooi, iirooKiyn, iwo on inwor Al
lan tie Avenue, ono ut Kicks anil Out-raw
Streets, one ut Iluiutlton Ave
nue and Ulcks Street, on on Third
venue between I'nlon und President
Itreets. and one open air movie n)iow
Columbia Strict. All theso places
Tho samo persons wfco heard ltooae
velt's "call to arms' two months ago,
to-day rockod the hall with cheers for
peace.
"The long way to get ttfgether Is
to fight," said the President. ."Homo
men May they wunt to help Mexico.
Thoy wunt to overwhelm hor with
forco. That 1s the long way, as well
ae the wrong way.
"By this you establish hatreds.
Then when you try to go In ae
friends and helpmates you find the
doors barred ae If with eteel, Mexloo
feels that we do not wish to help her,
but to possess her. This Is due to
the manner In which some have tried
to exploit her possessions. So far as
I am concerned I will not help these
men. We must reipeot our own sov
erelonty but we must respect that of
Mexico. My belief Is like the Virginia
Bill of Rights every people has a
right to manage her own affairs. I
say this for the benefit of those who
would butt In.
"What do we desire when this great
struggle Is over?" The President
awaited a reply and the erowd In
one voloe shouted "Peace," "Perma
nent peace," Mr, Wilson added,
and then continuedi "Lift your
eyes to the horizon of busi
ness. Let your thoughts run abroad
throughout the world and with
thought that you are Amerioans and
stand for the liberties and rights of
mankind and go out and sell your
things," tho President said. "It .i
(Continued on Second Puge.)
Til
rrJt 1'utiirr lur4j liuiMiuf,
i QtvUU,id oa fiecocd Past.)
ivkrt. risxrwtloni. uii-i. Ac. iL All TU
mull, GiituU IVulrtl !( b-mUi Aoatriua
tiriinMp linn. JtifMC M ptrrrl fh-k morn
Maui i0i wo.
! .,B1SBSF 1 BBBBBBBBBBBBmer Ik . ' SI .... ' jf.VI !I BBBBBBn-SBK-SBBSUI,-SBBBBBBBBBBBi 31-KlSSA ,'Jj I V. 119 ' J ' Jir I -. J-BBBBnT :aBBB-SVSSBBl V
-BjfiHjjjj . 'liiiiiifiHraissBtlS 'ijl
'sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
,isVsBSBkaV iff?' -''BBHjjjj2B4 J V 'SSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB '
FREICH isIO OIITISH 0 AliiS
. .'. w BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBfl KSBBBBBBBBBBSV ?
1 h;2r1PWi4l r
i K-irfw i ipii imm .A v
S i'i i I iii A-t t'!-,!:a '.i"S-l". '! i f-J 'Vj'J'J'J
Ititr.lti.n trriltnv t.lrln ulr. nf(ir. I
DEUTSCHLAND FOUR DAYS
IN THE ENGLISH CHANNEL
DODGING WARSHIPS OF ALLIES
Peronnc Now Within Range of
Small Field Guns of the
Entente Allies.
LONDON, July 10. The Anglo
French armies pressed forward on
both sides ot the Ittvor Sommo In so
vera fighting last night, despite de
termined Uormtin attompts to stein
the grfat offensive.
Tho Ocrmnn War Office admtttod
this afternoon that llrltluh troopn
jienetruted Troncs Wood, north uf tho
rlvor. llnrlln also admits that tho
I French penetrated the village of III-
aches, Iras than a mtlo from the city
I of Pnronno, and other Qerman post,
tlons.
In several encounters the Germans
were jorced to yield ground, but
afterward regained tho lost positions
by counter attacks, the dcrmaa War
Olllco stated,
A brief bulletin from den. Halg,
llrltlsh Commander In Chief, an
nounced that the llrltlsh, after cap
turing the southern end of Troncs
Wood, havu mado further progross
northward.
The French War Offlco announced
additional progress south ot the
Homme, und tho capture, of S00 yards
of Ucrman trenches In a m'uprlso at
tack In the Chaiupagno region. The
Herman War Olllco contradicted this
statement with tho unnounceinont
that nil French uttneks In the Cham
IMKno werci repulsed.
Tho recapture, of I'i Nulsonctte
farm and the vlllugo of Ilartetix was
announced by tho Herman Wur Of
flco. The Herlln ofllrlal tells of a re
newal of aerial warfare It nays:
"Thfto was very lively aerial ac-
Continued on Fourth rate.)
Capt.Kocnig in Interview and Formal
Statement Declares His Boat Is
Only First of Many Merchant Sub
marines Which Will Carry Mails
and Freight.
Says He Was Not Driven Out of His
Course and That He Will Go
Back After Another Cargo Boat
Can Remain Under the Water
for Four Days.
BALTIMORE, July 10. Capt. Paul Koenig's personal story of the
Deutscliland's voyage across tlie ocean was toM to newspaper corre
spondents soon after he made public his formal written statement. He
laughed at stories of his being chased far off his course by enemy ves
sels, and declared that during the entire trip the vessel was submerged
for only about ninety miles.
Supplementing the written statement, the Captain told how his ves
sel nad lain at the bottom of the English Gunnel one whole night; how
he and his crew played the gramaphone beneath the waves; how they
had drunk champagne and ate the best of foods; how they had openly,
sailed 3,800 miles, submerging only a few times for a few hours and
doing only ninety miles under the surface during the entire trip.
He declared that the Deutschland was only the first of many sub
marines which are to be sent from Germany, and that the Bremen would
be the next to come over. Some reports said there would be twenty-five
submarines in the merchant fleet, but Capt. Koenig did not specify any
number. .
(ny T. Steele, Hnrtejor of (he Tort of BaJUnore, made as
official report to Collector Bran to-dar advising Uiat I ho Deutsch
land oh an unarmrd merchant TNiel, entitled to all the privilege
of any other peaceful ship lalllng under the flag of a friendly
nation.
Upon delivering his ship's papers to the office of the North German
Lloyd Line, Capt. Koenig declared his voyage across the Atlantic had
broken England's rule of the seas.
"We went down one or two times in the North Sea for a few,
hours," said Koenig in relating his story, "but we travelled only ninety
miles In all under the seas. We were four days In the English Channel,
lying on the bottom a whole night there because the weather was foggy.
Nobody saw us and we sighted no battleships only cruisers and
destroyers.
"It was my first long voyage In a submarine, though I had taken
trial trips before on the Deutschland. There was no fear in the experi
ence, and It seemed no more than taking a trip on the Schleswig or Prhv.
cess Irene, the German Lloyd ships I used to command.
"Wo Marled from Clermany Juno 23,-i
had bad weather only ono uay ami . Mttlng out. if the Encllsh da not
travelled a total distance ot about
3,800 miles.
"It got rather close Inside during
tho rough weather, but It wus all
right when tho hatches wore off. Tho
Deutschland can go down S00 foot and
May there for four days If necessary,
but wo did not havo to do that.
"This trip was a practical demon
stration of the ublllly of u submurlno
to pass tho llrltlsh blockade, Wo ex
pect great financial success from our
Mintnre. and, in fact, tho boat was
violate the law concerning tho three-
mllu zone. No doubt there will be
ten cruisers oft this port waiting for
us, but I could submerge before leav.
Ing tho river. Our ability to escape
ought to bo demonstrated by tat
fact that we were not seen at any
time on our voyago here."
"I have seen." said the Cantata,
"statements that we were forced to
go hundreds of tulles out of our
course In tho Atlantlo because ot
llrltlsh warships. That Is not no.
paid for by this cargo, wn can carry l Why should we go out ot our course,
1,000 tons, though this time wo hud .except to submerge? Thut ia the
H"W-HH
Ilrnkrn Trnllrr M'lrr Kills llor.
John Cagllotolo. twelve years old. of I noon ",I,:iwi"t1,fi;!,' 'ToneTY-land
No. t(33 llay Thlrtyslith Ktrint, Hath i ,i ,ii.j " V..V ,11.,
putsch, was struck by the cud ot a shock.
only 750 tons, culotly dyesturts, worth
11,000,000,"
Tim Captain smiled when asked If
there would be trouble In getting out
of the Patapsco ltlver.
"No, there won't be. any difficulty
here
f
simplest and most effective way to
get out of our course. Uesldea, It
Is much easier to submerge.
"Wo came to Hampton Itosda hv
tho straight co"
Channel. Wo
1
J
.32
