.. i
ijitttatt
NIGHT
EXTRA
ictmtmg
NIGHT
VOL., H. NO. 2G0
PHIIiAJ)EDPJIIA, MONDAY, JULY 10, 1010,
CortiianT, 1010, ar tna Fcnto Lxdqzi Courxtrt.
PBICJS OM CENT
FINANCIAL EDITION
.;
sw
N
TWO RUSSIAN
ARMIES CLOSE
INUPONKOVEL
Teutons in Disorderly Flight
on Styr Front Before
BrusilofTs Forces
STRONGHOLD'S FALL NEAR
Capture of Delatyn Cuts Von
Bothmer's Army From Its
Base of Supply
LONDON1, July 10.
j. Two separata Russian dotaohmcnts have
crossed the river Stokhod and aro closing
In rapidly upon the groat railway centra
of Kovel, aecofdlng to dispatches recotvcd
hero today.
General Drusllofl'fl forces crossed the
river southeast of llulovltshl, after enp
' turlng the town Itself In Saturdays lighting.
Tho detnehment Is now within 20 miles of
Kovol and approaching tho city along tho
Kovol-Sarny railway.
The Austro-acrmans contlnuo a some
what demoralized retreat upon Kovel. In
two days tho IlUBslan right wing has pro
gressed 14 miles.
Tho Russian offensive on tho lower Stolc
hod River Is developing with a rapidity and
strength- which has nlmost paralyzed tho
German armies. Bcforo tho Teuton forces
can rocovor from tho shock of one assault
General Bruslloff sweeps forward again with
his forces Intact.
Saturday tho Austro-Oerman forces wero
compelled to abandon their lines along tho
Styr and to tako up leas easily defended
positions, on tho Stokhod. Yesterday tho
Irresistible advanco of the Russians forced
them across tho stream at ono vital point
and enveloped two mord villages south of
the Hary-Kovel railway.
Tho Teutons laBt night were In disorderly
flight" along tho whole front In this sector
and tho Russians, wero moving forward
from a point only 24 miles from Kovel.
TEUTONS MENACED.
Tho crossing by tho Russians of tho Stok
' hod River near UgU and Janovka, which
are reported In flames, seriously threatens
tho Austro-German forces from two sides.,
UbII Is about halfwny between tho two
railways running Into Kovel from Rovno to
Sarny. Tho Teutonic armies aro believed to
bo massed along these two lines. TJhe Rus
sian salient, eating Its way Into the front
at tho centre, exposes both groups to a
flank altaclc and opens the way for tho
Rapture by ho Muscovite armies, of (ho Ufa
(Ines of the enemy.
General von Llnslngen's retirement from
the Lutsk salient, which for months has
been the sharpest thorn In the side of the
Russian army. Is foreshadowed In tho swift
advancoW tho Russians on Kovel. Military
critics hero aro unanimously of tho opinion
that nothing can check the onrubh of the
attacking forces, and that another week,
at the most, will see tho fall of Kovel. v The
Germans, It Is apparent, must relax thelt
hold on the Invaded parts of Poland and
Lithuania onco Kovel falls Into Russian
hands.
KOVEL'S FALL NEAR.
The ability of General Bruslloff to strike
quickly ,nt almost any point along the whole
Volhynlan front, combined with the neglect
Continued on Pago roar. Column Two
U-BOAT'S COMING TOLD
BY ZEPPELIN'S NIECE
Deutschland's Daring Trip Fore
cast in Exclusive Interview
Given Evening Ledger
( .
An Interview with tho Countess Anna
Ursula Dagenfeld, a niece of Count Zep
pelin, printed, exclusively in the Evenino
Lbooeb of July 22, 1316, contained tho first
Intimation ever printed In an American
newspaper that such a thing as a trans
atlantic trip by a. submarine was a possi
bility. A resident of this country for 12 years,
the Countess Dagenfeld Is tho wife of
Adolph B. Apel". She. was Interviewed last
summer at her homo on Bth avenue, Ventnor
Heights, N. J., by a staff correspondent of
the Bvenxno La Da kb.
'The perfection of the submarine has
been, completed," she said at that time.
"There are 22 of them now lrtthe German
submarine navy which, could como to New
York harbor and stay there for two months."
She said that each of the submarines
had proved that any of them could travel
a distance of 6000 miles from the base and
not have to return tor two months.
The Couptesa Dagenfeld'a father married
a sister of Count Zeppelin. 'Her husband
is known to yachtsmen as one of the best
speed boat builders in the country, lie re
ceived his Instruction In 'naval. construction
at aarden, nearKKil, Germany, from the
same roaster who taught the Kaiser him
self. Dlf PONT COMPANY'S PURCHASE
OF OWN STOCK TOLD AT TRIAL
Accountant for PJatntiff Gives Dejtaila
of Transactions
WILMINGTON. Del., July KWOne of
the chief developments in the trial of the
- d i? Pont stock suit here today was testimony
given by John Hood, an expert accountant
ta the employ of the plaintiffs, who said an
examination of the ' du Pont company's
books, made since last Friday, showed
where the company had been buying its own
stock here.
He gave a 1st of dates, together with the
number of shares of stock bought, fronr
whom and the price paid. The purchase
nre made chiefly through local brokers in
January Feh'vwv and March, 1815.
4 The plaintiffs closed, their casa today.
U-BOAT FLEET WILL
BLOCKADE, SAYS.CAPTAIN KOENIG
BALTIMORE, July 10. In a formal tatcmcnt, Captain Paul Koonig,
commander of tho giant submarine Deutschland, declared the vessel which
arrived In Baltimore today would bo followed soon by sovoral others.
TJio first of those, ho said, would'bo tho Bremon. Captain Koenig brought
n valuablo cargo of dyestuffs, ho staid, for "our American friends."
Tho statement follows:
"Tho submarlno Doutschland which I have tho honor to command, is
tho first of sovoral submnrlneso, built to tho ordor of Doutscho Ozean
Rhederei G. M. B. II., Bremon. Sho will bo followed by tho Bremon shortly.
"Tho idea of tho building of till ssubmarlno emanated from Mr. Alfred
' Lohmann, tho president of the Bromon Chamber of Commorco. Ho brought
his Idoa in tho fall of last year confidentially before a small clrclo of f rlonds,
nnd tho Idea was token up at onco. A
intrusted with tho building or tho submarines.
"Tho board of directors Is composed of Alfred Lohmann president' of
tho board J Philip Hclnekon, general manager of tho North German Lloyd;
Mr. Kommerzlenrnt nnd P. M. Hormnnn. mnnngor of tho Deutsche Bank.
Carl Stapolfcldt, manager of tho North German Lloyd, has taken over
tho management of tho company.
"Wo havo brought a most valuabio cargo of dyestuffs to our American
friends, dyestuffs which havo boon bo much needed for months In Arrioricn,
and which tho ruler of tho seas has not allowed tho great American Republic
to import. Whilo England will not allow anybody tho somo right on tho
ocean, because sho rules tho waves, wo havo by means of tho submarlno
commencod to break this rule.
"Great Britain cannot, however, hinder boats such as ours to go and
como as wo please. Our trip passing Dover and across tho ocean was an un
ovontful ono. When danger approached, .wo went below tho surfaco, and
hero wo aro safoly in an American port, ready to return in duo course.
"I am not in a position to give you full dotolls regarding our trip
across the ocoan in view of our enemies. Our boat has a displacement of
about 2000 tons and a spocd of moro than 14 knots Ncodless to say that wo
nro quito unarmed nnd only a peaceful merchantman.
"Our boats will carry across tho Atlantic tho malls and save them from
British interruption. '
"We trust that tho old friendly relationship with tho United States,
going back to tho dny3 of Washington, when it was Prussia who was tho
first to help America in its fight for freedom from British rule, will awako
afresh In your bountiful "nd powerful country.
' "Tho houso flag of tho Doutscho Ozean Rhederei is tho old Bremon flag,
red and white stripes with tho coat-of-arms of the town, tho key in the corner.
This key is tho sign that wo have opened tho gates which Great Britain tried
to shut upon us nnd tho trade of the world. The gates which wo opened with
this key will not bo shut again. Open door to tho trade of tho world nnd
freedom of the oceans nnd equal rights to all nations on tho oceans will bo
guaranteed by Germany's victory in this struggle for our existence."
GERMAN U-BOAT TRADE FLEET
IS TO FOLLOW DEUTSCHLAND
TO BREAK BRITISH BLOCKADE
Captain Koenig,.atBaltimore, Announces
Bremen Will - Be Next Undersea
Craft to Defy Allies and
Trade With America
Germany has taken the first step in a carefully laid, determined campaign
to break Britain's blockade of her ports.
Undersea commerce Is the means employed, and the safe arrival today at
Baltimore of the supersubmarine Deutschland with a cargo of dyes and chemicals
demonstrates the feasibility of tho plan.
Cnptain Koenig, of tho Deutschlnnd, in an official statement, announces that
a fleet of U-boats is ready for the traffic with the United States and that the
next submarine merchantman for America will be the Bremen. He states that
Germany can and will break the "diabolical" throttling of her ports by Great
Britain.
Tho Baltimore Collector of Customs, after an official inspection of the
Deutschland, ruled that It was strictly a commerce ship, not a warcraft nnd not
evenaa. armed merchantman.
The collector's report will be passed upon by the State Department after
personal inspection by Assistant Secretary of the Navy Roosevelt and a naval
expert constructor. The questions involved are of international import.
Great Britain nnd France have called attention to the presence of the sub
marine. The Deutschland covered the 4100 miles from Kiel In 16 days, dodging an
array of British and French warships and numerous merchant craft. It
traveled 800 miles out of its way to avoid enemy vessels. The voyage is made the
more remarkable by the fact that it was through the English Channel, past
Dover,
The voyage is nn epoch la maritime history,
GERMAN CREW WINED AND DINED
AT BOTTOM OF ENGLISH CHANNEL
BALTIMORE, July 10. Captain Paul Koenig today brought hero the
word-to-mouth story of the first successful crossing of the Atlantic by a com
mercial submarine the giant super-submersible Deutschland.
Supplementing a written statement the captain this afternoon told how
hla vessel had lain at the bottom of the English Channel one whole night, how
ho and his crew had played the gramaphone beneath the waves, how they had
lived on champagne and tho best of foods, how they had openly salle'd 8800
miles, submerging only a few times for a few hours and doing only 00 miles under
the surface during the entire trip.
His written statement announced that tho Bremen a sister vessel, would
follow the Deutschland, It declared Germapy now foresaw the collapse of the
English starvation blockade, "The gate will not be shut agafh," is tho language
used.
"We went down one or two times in the NortJi Sea for a few hours," he
said, "but we traveled only 00 miles In all under the sea. We were 4 days
in the English Channel, lying, on the bottoma whole night there because the
weather was foggy. Nobody saw us, however, and we sighted1 no warships
only cruisers and destroyers."
AN EASY VOYAGE,
"It was my first ions voyage In a sub
marine, though I had taken trial trlpa
before, on the Deutschland. There was no
fear in the experience, and t seemed no
more than taking a trip on the Schleswlg
or Princess Irene, the German Lloyd ships
I used to command.
"Wo started from, qermany June"SI, had
bad weather only one day and traveled a
total distance of about -3 800 miles.
"It did get rather close inside during- the.
rough, weather, bu' H was all right when
the hatches were off. The, Deutschland
can go down 300 feet and stay there four
days if nteesaary, but w did not have, to
da that
'This til'j was a practical demonstration
BREAK BRITISH
company was formed and a Kiel firm
of the ability of a submarine to pass the
British blockade. We expect great financial
success from, our venture, and, in fact, the
boat was paid for by this cargo. We can
carry 1000 tons, though this time we had
only 750 Vns, chiefly dyestuffs, worth
JU0O.000." v
"WILL GET OUT ALL RIGHT."
The captain smiled when asked. If there
would be trouble in gettlcg out of Chesa
peake Bay.
"No, there wont be any difficulty in get
ting out. If the English do not violate the
law concerning tht bj-ff'ttille rone. No
doubt there wU fce ten, cruisers off this
t. CeatiaiMp I'f&f Tvro. Celiwuta Tana,
WILSON DECLARES
PEACEFUL INTENT
TOWARD MEXICO
President, in Speech at De
troit, Replies to Roosevelt's
"Call to Arms"
FORCE INVITES HATRED
United States Will Play New
Part Increased
Responsibility
By ROBERT J. BENDER
DnrnOIT, Mich,, July 10. President
Wilson today answered Colonel noosevelt's
spirit of militancy with a messago of peace,
Speaking to 3S00 people, who packed Arca
dia Hall hundreds of whom wero delegates
to tho World's Salesmanship Congress the
President enld that fghtlng rosults In
hatreds that ruin opportunities for .progress
In trndo nnd civilization.
Tho samo people who heard Roosevelt's
"call to arms" hero two months ago today
rocked the hall with cheers for peace
"Wo must respect the sovereignty of
Mexico," tho President said at one tlmo J "I
say this for the benefit of those who wish
to butt In. Mexico feels we do not wish
to help her, but to possess her.
"This Is'duo to the manner In which some
have tried to exploit her possessions. I
will not help theso men."
The Prcsldont sounded a call to business
mon of the world to tespond to tho now de
mands of salesmanship.
"Lift your eyes to tho horizon of busi
ness," he urged In closing, "and with the
thought that you stand for tho liberties of
mankind, sell your goods nnd try to convert
the peoplo to tho principles of America."
As tho President concluded somo ono
shouted, "Hurrah for tho next President of
tho United States."
A din shook tho hall for several moments.
Prcsldont Wilson was greeted on his ar
rival hero this morning with this messago
from Henry Ford :
"My, hat Is oft to the man who has kept
this country out of war 'and will continue
to do so."
THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
Tho President wns Introduced Im
mediately upon his arrival at tho hall In.
which, tho convention Is'belmr held.
"These aro days of Incalculable thlngsJ'
he began. "It Is Impossible foe, any "One
to predfet tho future of business.
"One thing Is BUro. Tho Untied States
will play a new part of Increased re
sponsibility. "justness of all countries has been
timid. Not until the last two or three
years has she provided horself with the'
Instrumentalities necessary. She has pro
duced a large unmbcr of provincial
thinkers men who did not think America
Continued on Pure Four. Column Six
GREAT U-BOAT
LOCKED IN DOCK
AT BALTIMORE
Boom of Logs to Keep Vis
itors Away From
Deutschland
ARRIVES IN FOG AND RAIN
DALTIMORE, July 10. Myriads of lights.
In chains like big yellow pearls, blinking
like the eyes of monster seadogs on watch ;
tiny and faint like the lights of glowworms,
separated sea from sky at 4 o'clock this
morning along the sides of Baltimore harbor.
Some of them were the lights of ammunition
factories, some were the lights of buoy's,
some Bwung from the masts of freight
ships. ,
And some were the glowing cigarettes
of a dozen or so German merchant Bailors
who paced the narrow deck of 4ie super
submarine, the Deutchland, paced In the
rain, comfortable In oilskin Jackets and
peaked caps like the caps of chauffeurs,
puffed' comfortably at cigarettes and Minted
out the Baltimore skyline and the factories
that were turning out war munitions, and
gazed Interestedly pver the rail at tugboats
and motorboats that were chugging around
the U-boat In the dark.
Just oft quarantine she lay, with the tug
Thomas F, Tlmmlns alongside, and In the
thick gloom of rain, fog and the natural
darkness of the early morning the two of
them were Indistinguishable from the three
West Indian fruit steamships that lay
nearby,
Boats put out from Baltimore shortly
after 3 a. m., filled w(th photographers
and newspaper men from Philadelphia,
Washington and New York, and, once out
side the thick network of craft that clut
tered the harbor around the boat clubs,
everything began to look like a submarine.
There loomed up a black shape, low in the
water With a long black column sticking
up Into the gloom, and the shout went up,
"There it Is." But It wasn't. 1$ was only
old Fort Carroll, and lying near her a
sailboat, whose salts from a distance looked
like the periscope of a submarine, of which
Fort Carroll was the. body.
Out toward the end of Sparrow's Point,
where the flames from the factory fur
naces threw rosy reflections against the
clouds, the gathering of ship began, to
thin out, but there was. nothing that looked
like the greatest submarine In the world.
Netblnjf. that Is, until tho newspaper
CioUaticd ta fait Tut. Cultusn She
QUICK
GERMAN EMBASSY RECEIVES DEUTSCHLAND MAIL
BALTIMORE, July 10. Counselor Hans von Hntmhausen, of
the Geimnn Embassy, this nfternoon took over a bag containing letters
nnd other documents that wero brought hero for the German Ambas
sador, Count von Bcinstorff, on the Deutschland.' Permission to do bo
was granted by Collector of Customs Ryan. The dispatche will bo
immediately forwarded to Ambasador von Benistorff. While it was
admitted that the mail was of nn official nature, the subject matter
was not revealed. Counselor von Haimhausen denied that it included
auy message to President Wilson from Kaiser William.
DENIES IMPROPER CARE OF GUARDSMEN
WASHINGTON July 10. The War Department this afternoon
issued nn official denial that the Nationnl Guardsmen, now In the
ogulnr service, nre improperly cared for. "These rumors nro abso
lutely without foundation," said the department statement.
ELLIS ISLAND HOSPITAL FOR INFANTILE PARALYSIS CASES
WASHINGTON, July 10 Tho Senate today unanimously adopt
ed the O'Gonuan resolution authorizing tho use of the hospital and
inspection facilities at Ellis Island to check the infantile paralysis
epidemic In New York.
AQUEDUCT RACING RESULTS
First race, 4-ycnr-olds and up, selling, 000, mile Andes, 110,
rnlrbiother, 4 to 1, 8 to 5 and 7 to 10, won; Daingerfleld, 110, Camp
bell, 10 to 1, 4 to 1 nnd 2 to 1 second; Ninety Simplex, 100 Miufc,
Oto 2, 8 to 5 and 4 to 5, third. Time, 1.41.
)
ANOTHER RUSSIAN HOSPITAL SHIP SUNK BY TURKS
PETROQRAD, July 10. Seven lives were lost when a Russian hospital ship
was sunk by a submarine without warning in tho Black Sea, according to an omclal
report received by tho Admiralty today.
NO DAMAGE IN AIR RAIDS ON BRITAIN
LONDON, July 10, Two nlr raids by tho'Cmans yesterday and last night
resulted In no casualties of any kind, tho Admiralty jr.n.ounced today. Tho follow
ing official statement wns Issued: "There Is nothing- to'fidd to the communique
Issued concernltig-yesterdny's nlr raids. First, over tho Isle of Thanet In tho morn
ing by a seaplane, which dropped no bombs, Tho raider wns pursued by naval .air
craft and was fired at by nntl-alr guns. Second, south of Kent at midnight, one
aircraft raider dropped. seven exploslvo bombs. They effected no damage beyond
tho breaking of windows. There were no casualties of any kind In either raid."
SIXTH REGIMENT IN RAILROAD ACCIDENT
Mrs. West E. Blaln, of Chester, received a telegram this morning from her
husband, Captain Blaln, of Compnny C, 6th Regiment, referring to an accident to
the train In which tho regiment was riding en routo to tho border. Tho. telegram
reassured Mrs. Blaln as to her husband's safety, but gavo no details of tho accident,
which, from the telegram, Is thought to have happened near Makane, Mo a town
on tho Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad, Sergeant Bradley, In charge of the
6th Regiment Armory, said that no news had reached there concerning nn accident.
Ho said the accident could not have been a serious one or tho armory would have
heard of It. The telegram from Captain Blaln merely asked Mrs. Blaln not to
worry should she hear of a railroad accident.
AUSTRIAN LOSES 150,000 ON ITALIAN FRONT
ROME, July 10. Austro-Hungarlan losses on the Italian front during the fight
ing in May and Juno were 160,000 men, the Messaggero estimates. Tho casualties
are listed aB follows; Killed, 30,000; wounded, 70,000; missing, 50,000.
EIGHT BRITISH TRAWLERS SUNK IN TWO DAYS
BERLIN, July 10. -Eight British trawlers were sunk In tho North Sea between
July 4-6, according to a report made to the Admiralty today. They wero Queen
Bee, Anil Anderson, Peep O'Day, Watchful, Nancy Human, Petunn, Carrel Bessy
and Newark Coatle. Tho Queen Bee, Watchful and Petuna were shelled because
they tried to escape. Three British steamships captured by the Germans are now
lying at Zeebrugge.
GRAIN AND OIL EXPORTS SHOW BIG INCREASE
The exports of grain and oil from this port last week showed a marked increase
over the totals for the corresponding period last year, although fewer vessels
arrived and sailed In the week Just ended. Grain exports last week; amounted to
645,341 bushels, as compared with 111,162 bushels for the corresponding period last
year. Of the, 106 vessels arriving In the week 20 were under foreign flags.
PANAMA ELECTS VALDES WITHOUT OPPOSITION
PANAMA, July 10. The presidential election yesterday was a tame affair. Ac
cording to pro-arrangement the adherents of Chlarl abstained from voting and con
sequently Voldes was elected without opposition. The attitude of the Chlarlstas was
due to a firm belief that wholesale frauds were committed by members of the Valdes
party in the municipal elections two weeks ago.
FIVE DEAD, $200,000 LOSS, IN FIRE AT COLON
PANAMA, July 10. Fire here yesterday destroyed two city blocks, the frame
constructed section or Colon, causing a loss estimated at 1300,000 and the death of
flye little children. The children were left in a burning building by tho father and
mother, who, escaping with difficulty, believed their offspring had already been
rescued.
BULLET MISSES PRESIDENT OF ARGENTNIA
BUENOS AIRES, July 10. An attempt to assassinate President Da La Plaza,
was made yesterday by a self-styled anarchist. The President was standing on the
talcony of the Government building reviewing some troops when a man In the crowd
of spectators drew a revolver and fired at him. The shot went wild and the would-be
avsaesln was arrested. Buenos Aires was celebrating the 100th anniversary of
Independence of Argentina. Dr. Vlctoranlo De La Plaza was elected Vice President
on June, 12, 1910, and succeeded to the presidency on the death of President Saenz
Peua on August 9, 1914.
PRESIDENT, INCOG, TO REST IN WISCONSIN WOODS
EAGLE RIV33R, Wis., July 10. President Wilson Is to spend two or three
weekc In the heart of northern Wisconsin forests Incognito seeking rest and recrea
tion before starting tha career of a presidential candidate in a campaign. It la not
certain a yet where the President will go or how he will arrange to hide away
from visitors and curiosity seekers.
MONTAGU MADE MINISTER OF MUNITIONS
LONDON, July 10. Following the appointment last week pf David Lloyd-Qeprge
as Secretary for War, official announcement his been made of several other changes
In the Government Edwin Samuel Montagu, Financial Secretary to 'tha Treasury,
takes Mr. LloyC-George's p'acf as Minister of Munitions. Thomaa McKJnson Wood,
Secretary at Stato for Scotland, becomes Chancelor of tha Duchy o? Lancaster and
rjaanclal Secretary of the Treasury Harold J. Tnnant. Parliamentary Under Sec
rvtary for War. I icade Secretary of BtaU for Scotland. Lord Curzoa baa been
liiYltl to become. permanent member of
NEWS
tho wot Committee,
BERLIN ADMITS
FOES' ADVANCE
ONWESTFRONT.
French Positions Around
Biaches Only One Mile
From Peronrie
GUNS COMMAND CITY
German Strongholds on South
' Bank of River Now
Threatened
Tho Anglo-French armies pressed for
ward on both sides of tho River Sommo
in sevoro fighting Inst night, despito
determined German attempts to stem
tho great offensive.
Tho Germnn War Office admitted this
afternoon thnt British troops peno
tratcd Trones wood, north of the river.
Berlin also admits that the French
penotrnted tho village of Biaches, less
thnn a mllo from tho city of Peronno,
the village of Barlcux and other Ger
man positions.
In several encounters tho Germans
were forced to yield ground, but after
ward regained tho lost positions by
counter-attacks, the German War Offico
stated.
A brief bulletin from General Haig,
British commander-in-chief, announced
that the British after capturing the
southern end of Trones wood, hnvo
mado further progress northward.
The French War Office announced
slight ndditionnl progress south of tho
Sommo, ,and tho capture of 500 yards
of German trenches in n surprise at
tack in the Champagne region. The
German War Office contradicted this
statement with the announcement that
nil French attacks in tho Champagne)
were repulsed.
PARIS, July 10.
While continuing their successes on the
Sommo Itlver front, the French, under Gen
eral JToch, have extended their offensive to
the Champagne district, where 5 (TO yards
of German trenches were captured In a
storm attack last night
Announcement of the French gain In
Charonaenewas mode today bylh-PrtB&r
War Ofllco in its ofllclal coramunlaue.
-".Thsre was no Infantry action north of
tho Sommo during the night on that part
of the line hold by tho French.
South of the Somme, In the, sector of
barleux, the French captured German
trenches and made 950 prisoners.
The new French positions around
Biaches, one mllo west of Peronne, which
were captured from the Germans on Sun
day, are being strongly organized.
The successful attack In'the Champagne
region, where thore has been little fighting
In several weeks, apparently was a diver
sion to prevent the Germans from shifting
reinforcements from that front to the.
Somme battleground.
By advancing In the region of BarleUx,
the French last night brought up their right
wing to within less than two miles of tha
Somme south of Peronnq.
THREATEN SOUTH BANK.
The French now threaten In their next
thrust on the south bank of the Somme ta
squeeze the Germans out of all their posi
tions west of the river In the bend of tha
Somme. The Germans already have with
drawn their heavy guns to the east bank of
the river.
The historic city of Peronne Is now St
the mercy of French guns. French lines ara
now drawn so close that not only long-range
pieces, but small field guns are emploced
within easy range of the Peronne Railway
station. From a rise of ground near Bar
leux, French officers can look doym upon
the town from across the river and watcbi
the movements of Oerman troops.
During the first eight days of the great
Continued on race Two, Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Bated on a new dhcavtrv in 'solar phytic
oy
WILZJ8 I. UOOjtE AifD TV, F, OAJIOTUBR8.
Sunday, July It, and Monday. July 17
The week wilt open generally fair and mod
eratelu warm, (h temperature riting,
Tuctdav, Jull H Wedneiday, July ll,
and Thursday, July to It will become itn.
tettled Tuesday in advance of cool move
ment, due Wednesday. 5hi movement will
bring light acattered shower and 10 .de.
grtts cooler.
Thursday. July S3, Trids:; Jul? tt, and
Saturday, July tl Warmer temperature
and shower Thursday will precede tnot
ment due Friday, with clearing and cooler,
Lowest temperature will range in the SO
for the week-end,
QEXBli&b WBATUER MOYEUWTM
Cool movement due or it tnext develop
ment in northwest United States July II,
icW be an average movement for the teaittn,
but preceded by len rainfall than, usual
(( will bring ta degree cooler temperatures
in t BQrtAem half jf the XfnUed State,
with light frost along the Canadian bor.
der in the northwett-
Another movement, due July J, tcUI sits "
be an average movement, preceded by welt
distributed thunder showcrc and duplicating
the temperature of preceding movement,
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia nrf vicim'ty .
Cloudy and unsettled towght and Tues
day, with probably acsarionot rain; not
much change in temperature; moderate
wind, mostly south.
I,P AHB yOOTTD
DOS tef, wilte petaK? 4os aftth Utr-csiffil
un &s4 Uvsr ipaU sa tears tan In rw4
klifcl la&. wlurt wiiBtser, sin sjj4 rtona
b ea'colUr.. Ufcwl rewart U rstotw ta
ease owtfc ..,.,.- .
N
31
I
