Bridgeport Evening FsirMer -
VOL.52 NO. 162 -- . " BRIDGEPORT, CONN., MONDAY, JULY 10, 1916 PRICE TWO CENTS
-.,V
ITdDESo,
SAYS MIMT CAP MTffi ifflP IEE IMP
V
WIM iMIMf IM W HM
Ambassador Designate Informs State Department
That Outlaws Are Again Reported To Be Ap
A -preaching Big $end District Where Previous
: Raids Occurred Conferences With De Faeto
l'i Government To Be Resumed This Week.
Washington, July 10 A second warning that Villa bandits
tre headed for the Big Bend district of Texas was given to the
state department today, by Eljzeo Arredondo, the Mexican am
bassador designate.' '''' . '''.r '". (
: He told Acting Secretary. Polk his government had given
him definite information that the bandits were moving north
ward toward Boquillas, Texas, and promised co-operation.' of
Carranza forces. ''
emsargo is uxvnBD.
.. Ba Paso, July 10 The embargo on
Shipment to Mexico has been lifted. It
irai announced at department head
quarters last night, on everything ex
cept munitions of war. ,
more mhjtia to leave. 4
, - Washington, July 10-i-The informal
negotiations here between Ellxeo Ar-
' redondo, Mexican ambassador- desig
nate, and Acting Secretary Polk, of
the state, department which are ex
pected to; smooth put the differences
aSLIA K0T- IN DAD) UPON ... -COlIJniBIJS
EYE WITNESS
Q? DOItDER BATTLE SAYS
An interesting story of the raid of
the VUlistas Into Columbus, New
Mexico, has been told a reporter of
The Farmer by Arthur O'Regan. ad
venturer and prospector, who was
spending the night In the town when
the bandits arrived there. From Mr.
O'Regan's story It would appear the
bandits knew they were going Into an
American or "Gringo" town and that
their purpose was to get money, sup
plies and ammunition. Mr. O'Regan
highly praises the conduct of the U.
S. cavalry who fighting odds of ten
to one repulsed the bandits with se
vere loss. Mr. Q'Regan is the first
eye witness of the raid who has visit
ed Bridgeport, N f
For several days he has been tile
guest of William Keefe, manager of
the : Olive - Inn. Two years ago Mr.
Keefe was the manager of a summer
hotel at Brighton Beach and Mr.
O'Regan was his clerk.- Prior to the
raid Mr. O'Regan hadf been "prospect
ing" as he calls it along the border
and arrived at Columbus the night be
TWENTY SOLDIERS
CLOSE TO DEATH
f IS- BOflVUPSETS
' ' Adrift All Night Prom Fort
, . Wright Are Brought To
t, : i " Safety at Newport.
".-.- ' Newport,' R. July 10 A boat-",-
load of soldiers from Fort H. G.
Wright, which left Fisher's Inland, N.
Y., yesterday and were unaccounted
V for over night, arrived here today.
Fort Wright, Fisher's Island. N. T.,
-July 10 There were 20 soldiers In
j the party that started from here yes-
terdajr afternoon. Two of these were
' Washed .ashore in a much battered'
. condition early this morning and drs
. ' covered by Captain Arthur Camphcre,
of the llfesaving station at this place.
They sai.i, the boat had capsized.
, ; Uttle . Is known of the affair after
.'' the soldiers left the . Island.' They
'' ., all had the day", off and started out
" . In the boat for a day's outing. The
;. ' two 'rescued ones were taken tb the
I'ort Wright' hospital but were unable
to give any account of the happen
i irtgs. Their names are .not known.
--"' r- ' '- ' -
1 Fort Wright -and Forts Terry.
Michle and Mansfield compose the
principal defenses of the eastern ap
proach of Long Island Sound. The
fort is located about 12 miles off New
' London." It is the training camp for
the Connecticut Coast Artillery corps
and the New York Coast , Artillery
'corps., The Connecticut troops wee
f there during the last week in June.
:' The Thirteenth regiment from Brook
' lyn, N Y., is encamped there now.
The state of . Connecticut erected a
' (Continued on Page S. .
I ATTMIS ME
between the two governments proba
bly will begin some time this week.
War department officials said many
thousands additional national guards
men would start for the border this
week.. ..v
BAT STATE SENDS MORE MEN".
. Framingham, Mass. July 10 Mass
acHusetts today sent 2,00 national
guardsmen to the Mexican border
to augment forces , from this state
which arrived at El Paso more than
a week ago. With today's movement
Massachusetts has contributed 7,100
militiamen for border service.
fore -the bandits came expecting to
find some American Mormons who
had been driven out of Mexico. ,
To 1 The - Farmer reporter Mr.
O'Regan said ! .,
"Fdrthe last il months I have been
living at El Paso, Tex., doing cleri
cal work. Although most people may
not know it Villa, .through his broth
er who was his agent; has been ex
porting thousands of cattle and hides
into the United States through El
Paso and Juares. When Villa stood
aces , high with our government he
kept his poldlers going and got am
munition and supplies through the
return from the cattle and hides he
sent intoythe United States.
!'The cattle came off the big ranches
that he took. Some of them were
owned by Mexicans, some by Ameri
cana' He never paid a cent for any
thing he took." After he fell out with
Carranza and that Whiskered gent had
him on the run, some of the Ameri
cans who, were handling things for
(Continued on Page ) .
LOCAL SURGEON
TO PRACTICE IN
WAR HOSPITALS
Dr. E. W. Paine on Way to
France For Valuable Ex
perience in Surgery.
Dr. E. W. Paine, S8T Park avenue,
for several months ambulance surgeon
connnected with the charfUes depart
ment, is now on his way to France,
where he willl get experience in sur
gery at one of the war hospitals. Dr.
Paine eailedon the steamer Rocham
beau, following his resignation from
the staff at the emergency hospital.
Dr. C. C. Taylor will take the place
vacated by. Dr. Paine. Dr. Taylor
has been actings substitute surgeon
Dr, Poole of Gurdon street will take
the substitute position. " '
Coroner Tolnvestigate
Death of W. D. Thompson
To determine whether the horse he
was driving ran away or whether the
motorman was guilty of negligence,
Coroner Phelan will old a hearing
tomorrow morning to investigate the
death of William D. Thompson of this
city, whose carriage collided with a
car July 8.
The accident occurred at Noble and
East Washington avenues. Thompson
was driving with two other men and
It was at first thought that the motor
man had not taken measures to avoid
the collision. But later several wit
nesses said Thomp-in's horse ran
away. The coroner is anxious to in
vestigate this feature.
BRITISH RULE OF SEAS
IS BROKEN BY U-BOAT'S
SAYS
Baltimore, July 10 Following the formal entry of' the
undersea freighter ;-into this port today, Capt. Ionig, her
ftnmmanflfip cravp. nut thp. fiillnwino- nffinial sfatpmpnt-
"The submarine Deutschland, which
I have the honor to command,' is the
first of " several submarines, built to
order of the Deutsche Ozean-Rhederei
G. M. B. H.. Bremen. She will be fol
lowed by the Bremen shortly.
"The idea of the building of this
submarine emanated from Mr. Alfred
Lohmann, then president of the Bre
men Chamber of Commerce. He
brought his Idea in the fall of last
year confidentially before a umall cir
cle of friends and the idea was taken
up at once. A company was formed
under the name of 'Deutsche Ozean
Rhederei G. M. B. H., and the Ger
maniawrft, Kiel, were entrusted with
the building of the submarine.
"We have brought a most valuable
cargo of dyea tuffs to our American
friends, dyestuffs which have been so
much needed some months In Amer
ica 'and which the ruler of the seas
has .not allowed the great American
republic to import. While . England
will not allow anybody the same right
on the ocean, because she rules the
waves, we have by means of the sub-,
roarine commenced to break this ule.
"Great Britain , cannot, however,
hinder boats such as ours to go and
come as we please. Our trip passing
Dover across the ocean was an un
eventful one. When dam;er ap
proached we went below the surface
and here we are, safely in an Amer
ican port, ' ready' to return in due
course.
"I am not in -a position to give you
all details regarding -our trip across
the ocean, in riew of our enemies:
Our boat has a displacement of about
2,000 tons and a speed of more than
14 knots.. Needless to say that we are
quite-- unarmed and only a peaceful
merchantman. i
"Regarding - things in Germany, I
mar mention that everybody is con
vinced of the "full fina victory of the
German arms and those of our allies..
All facts of the last 22 months go to
prove that there Is no doubt for this.
All Poland and Kurland, a country
of the size of two-thirds of Germany,
i i ' ' '
PRESIDENT WARNS THOSE
WHO SEEK TO "BUTT IN"
TO END MEXICO TROUBLE
Detroit, Mich., July 10 President
Wilson aroused , great enthusiasm at
the World's Salesmanship Congress to
day by urging that businessmen carry
Justice and fair dealing Into the ports
of the world, particularly those of
Mexico, and thereby establishing con
fidence in 'American principles.
His efforts, he declared, will be to
serve all America by serving Mexico
herself for her best Interests without
using force and not to berve the few
"gentlemen" who wish to exploit Mex
ican possessions ,
When the President asksd the crowd
what it desired at the end of all the
present world troubles, it shouted
"Peace" in one voice and then he
added that his wish was "permanent
peace."
"I hear . some men say," he said,
"that they want to help Mexico and
the Way they propose to help her is
to overwhelm her with force. '-..That is
the wrong way as well as the long
way.
"After fighting them i you . would
have a nation full of justified suspic
ion. Thus you would not help them.
Tou would shut every door against
you. .
. "What- makes Mexico suspicious is
that she thinks we do not want to
serve but possess her. And she has
Justification for these suspicions in the
way some gentlemen have sought to
Epidemic Takes 238
Victims in New York
New York, July 10 rRaln and
cooler weather today failed materially
to check 'the epidemic of Infantile
paralysis which, since its inception
two weeks ago, has claimed 238 lives
in New York Oty. - .
fMBEi
are since 12 months under peaceful
rule and the entire country has been
put under the plough, and thousands
of acres will be serving for the next
winter's supply of foodstuffs. Rains
and warm weather in April and May
have brought a crop In view all-over,
Germany, Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria
and Turkey finer than since a century,
tion. Besides Belgium, oneseventh
part of Albania are in the same posi
tion. Besides Belgium, one-eseventh
of France is In German possession
and all in a nourishing agricultural
stte.' So there is really not the least
anxiety for the British attempt Of
trying to kill by starvation a hun
dred million German and' Austrian
children and women nd non-combatants,
the most devilish plan ever tried
by any nation in the world. '
: '"Our boats will carry across the
tlantlc the mails and save them from
British interruption.
"We tftist'tHlf'imrtrlendly rela
tionship with the United States, going
back to the days of Washington, when
Prussia, who was the first tj help
roerica in its fight for freedom from
British . rule, will awake afresli in
your beautiful anad powerful country.
' "The house Sag of the Deutsche
Ozean-Rhederie is the bid Bremen
flag, red and white stripes with the
coat of arms of the town, the key in
the corner. This key is the sign that
we have opened the gates which Great
Britain tried to shut upon us and the
trade of the world. The gates which
we opened with, this key will not be
shut again. Open door to the trade
of the world and , for some of the
oceans and equal rights to all nations
on the ocean will be guaranteed by
Germany's victory in this struggle for
our existence." -, . v
Captain Konlg's own story of the
Deutschland's voyage was told to
newspaper correspondents soon, after
he made . public his prepared state
ment. He laughed at stories of his
being chased , far off his ' course by
enemy vessels, and declared that dur
ing the entire trip the vessel traveled
submerged only about 90 miles.
exploit her possessions.
"I will not serve these gentlemen
but I will serve all Americans by try
ing to serve Mexico herself. "
"The way to establish our soverelnty
is1 to respect hers."
The President added that he Re
lieved in the old Virginia bill of rights
which declared that a country may
do as it pleases with its own govern
ment, , )
This information, the President said,
was for those gentlemen who would
"butt in."
The President declared that the
merchant marine, "which some are so
slow in, giving us," will be a great
help to the business interests of the
United States.
In order to gain foreign business,
however, he added, it will be neces
sary for American businessmen to
adapt the goods to the demands of
other countries and not try to force
their own ideas down other markets.
Sn Iesrranship, he said, would go
hand-in-hand with statesmanship after
the close of the war.
No more patriotic or enthusiastic
reception has greeted the President re
cently than he received here. Thou
sands of persons lined the streets
through which he passed and when
he entered the hall the entire audience
arose and waved American flags.
PERU-VENEZUELA PACT.
. Washington, July. 10 Official des
patches received today in Latin-Ameri-cam
diplomatic quarters say a secret
agreement has been made between
Peru and Venezuela with the object of
taking vast tracts of land, rightful pos
session of which they dispute with
Colombia and Ecuador. Grave fearr
for the 'nations involved were expressed-
8 BRITISH
TRAWLERS
ARE SUM
German Warships Inflict
Heavy Damage in Two
Days' Patrol of Waters
Near English Coast. ,
Hostile Ajeroplane Drops
Bombs on Eafet Coast of
England, But No Casual
ties Are Reported.
Berlin, July 10. According to a
statement given ;.put today by the
Overseas News Agency, German war
ships between July 4 and 6 sank eight
trawlers near the English coast.
"German sea forces from July 4 to
6," the news agency says, "sank near
the English coast, the trawlers Queen
Bee, Anil Anderson, Peep-o-Day,
Watchful, Nancy Humman, Petuna,
Carralbessy and Newark Castle.' Of
these the Queen Bee, Watchful apd
Petuna were shelled with artillery be
cause they attempted to escape after
being warned.' . v
"German newspaper in this con
nection refer to the capture of three
British steamships which recently were
brought to Zeebrugge."
AEROS OVER ENGLAND.
London, July 10 Official announce
ment was made today that no casual
ties were caused by the bombs drop
ped by the German aeroplanes which
visited the southeastern coast of Eng
land last night. '
GERMANS RETAKE LINES.
Berlin, July . 10 The recapture of
Trones Wood, La Maisonette Farm and
the village of Barleux by German
troops was announced today by the
war office in its report on operations
along the western front.'
British Troops Advance,
Taking Many Prisoners
London, July 10. British troops
have madeva new advance northwest
of Contalmaison, in the field of their
offensive north of tht Somme, it was
officially announced this afternoon.
Three additional guns and several
hundred prisoners were captured.
The British gain was scored by the
capture of a small wooded district.
Four towns to the possession of
which the Teutonic allies have at
tached great importance, having made
preparations to defend them on the
largest scale-'-Stanlslau, Kovel and
Baranovichi on the eastern front, and
Peronne in the west are now coming
within range of the guns of the en
tente allies and four great battles are
expected. f v ,''
Of the advances of the allies, that
of the Russians on the east, near Ko--vel,
Is the most tetrik&ng. At the
beginning of the dVive, the Russian
attack toward this town was directed
along the railway from Rovno and
Austro-German 1 reinforcements were
(Continued on Page Two)
ALLIES ASK U. S.
TO INVESTIGATE
STATUS OF 'SUB'
Navy Experts Will Examine
Undersea Freighter No
Guns Aboard.
Washington, July 10 The British
and French embassies today officially
called the state department's atten
tion to the arrival of the German
submarine Deutschland at Baltimore
and asked if the government assure
Itself of the vessel's character. This
will be done, it was announced,' by
the assignment of naval experts to
assist in the work.
Collector Ryan, at Baltimore, re
ported informally today . that the
Deutschland did not carry guns, was
manned by a merchant crew, carried
a cargo and was not a warship. A
written report is expected later.
Officials said today that they had
no reason to believe a special exam
ination of the Deutschland would be
opposed and that as the submarine Is
a new ship in merchant trade, the
United States must be wholly satisfied
tht she is what she professes to be
and not a warship. If objections are,
raised that the Deutschland is a secret
type and nothing but a superficial ex
amination can be allowed, the state
department is expected to Insist on a
thorough, examination as had been
done in the case of steamships. a
BERNSTORFF SENDS AGENT.
New York, July 10 Count Von
Bernstorff, ambassador from Ger
many to the United States, today sent
Baron Von Hanlel, counsel to the Ger
man embassy, to Baltimore, "to ascer
ain the exact status of the under
water liner Deutschland."
England's Rule of the Sea Broken, Declares In-
trepid Commander As He Docks Submersible
at Baltimore Craft is Formally Entered at
Port Without Protest Cargo Consists Chiefly
of Dyestuffs Worth Fortune Officials Not
Worried That Status As jNIerchantship May Be
Questioned.
Baltimore,-July 10 "England's rule of the seas is broken,"
said. Captain Paul Konig, commander of the submarine Deutsch
land, as he filed his ship's papers today after making the first
undersea trip across the Atlantic.
The captain addeJ that the Peutschland is only the first J
of a fleet of undersea craft that will ply regularly in transat
lantic trade. ( . . ,
. At the same time the captain disposed finally of the re-,
port that he carried a message from Emperor William to Presi
dent-Wilson, saying there was no foundation for' the story.
The huge underweateri freighter was entered formally at
this port at noon without opposition.
--Heavily 'guardedj' the Deutschland today is at her dock, ap
parently none the worse for her 4,000 mile trip, accomplished,
through cordons of hostile warships. Preparations are being,
made to unship her cargo which, according to the bill of health !
given by the American consul at Bremen, consists of dyestuffs;
Capt. Konig left his ship at noon
and wpnt to the offices of the North
German Loyd agents here. Thence he
went to the customs house where the
Deutschland was forpally entered.
"This Is not the only one that Is
coming," said the captain. "Just wait.
There will be more here soon and we
are going back for another cargo. We
are going to bave a regular line."
From the customs house. Captain
Konig returned to his vessel. Joining
his crew in the cramped quarters in
which they have lived for more than
three weeks. So far no arrangements
have been made for either officers or
men to 'live ashore while the-' subma
rine Is preparing for her return voy
age. Confident that no serious attempt
will be made to question the merchant
man status of the submarine "Deutsch
land, the Baltimore German consulate
today telegraphed ;ount . Von Bern
storff at New York, . that K would be
unnecessary for any representative of
the embassy to hurry here to loole .af
ter the interests of the underwater
liner. ' '' .
There is said to Ve on board a large
sack of diplomatic mail, bearing the
Seal of the Imperial German govern
ment. Customs, officially emphatically
refused to make public the contents of
the boat's manifest. .
Capt. Konig talked freely to port of
ficials' this morning as bis boat moved
up to. her dock from the lower harbor
where she had dropped anchor last
night. . ; v -
All through the- night a consider
able part of the Deutschland's crew
had been astir and a small searchlight
played almost constantly upon a news
paper yacht anchored nearby. - The
tug Thomas P. Tlmmone.convoying the
submarine, also kept the yacht under
close surveillance. .. , ' .
ghortly after 4 o'clock. When day
light was beginning to show faintly
through heavy, low-lying clouds, and
a steady, drizzling rain, a boat with
health and customs- officials aboard
put ' out from the quarantine station
and went alongside the submarine. To
the .municipal ' ' health ' officer. Dr.
Thomas I Richardson, the skipper
presented his bill of . health issued to
him y William, Thomas Fee, Unites
States consul at Bremen, on June 14
The document described the Deutsch
land as "a vessel engaged in the
freight trade between Bremen and
Boston
ports."
or other' eastern .'Atlantic
It records her gross tonnage as 791,
says she is "newly built," has a cargo
of dyestuffs in good condition and
wholesome supply of water from the
Bremen water works."
One thing the boarding officers not
ed particularly there were no torpe-
do tubes or guns of any description
visible aboard the vessel. ' They had
been told that she mounted two small
calibre rifles for defense but came
ashore convinced that the visitor was
wholly unarmed.
It was learned that the boat left
Bremen with a load of about 760 tons
of valuable dyestuffs which her own
ers hope to seU to American manu
facturers for a fortune. At Helgo
land she waited nine days, leaving
there June 22 to plough deep beneath
the surface of .the North Sea to escape
the ; watchful eyes of the allied tolock
aders. Captain Konig Indicated that
the purpose of his long delay at Hel
goland was to deceive the enemy, who
undoubtedly had heard rumors of the
submarine's coming.
"We stopped there for very good
reasons," the captain explained with a
broad smile.
This accounted for the belief in the
United States that the vessel was a
week overdue, a misapprehension that
caused German embassy officials to
fear that she had run into allied war
ships or fallen victim to an Atlantic
storm. Once outside the blockading
lines and into the Atlantic, according
to the captain's story, he Headed
straight across and deviated from his
course only once, when he saw what
he took to be enemy craft
Most of the time he sped along on
the surface, making a round 14 knots
with his powerful twin Diesel oil en
gines, submerged, he could go at the
rate or seven and one-half knots.
Approaching the Capes, late Satur
day, Captain Konig found his path ap
parently clear. He laid to with his
decks awash, however, waiting until
darkness fell before nearing the coast.
When the bright half moon went
down, shortly after midnight, he put!
on all speed and ' shot between the
Virginia Capes, to be greeted by the 'n
tug Timmons, sent there more than a
week before to -await his coming,
' on b&ir J -.hn submarine are the
captain, first and second officers aqd
26 men, aU wearing the regulation
uniforms of the German merchant ma
rine, with the North German Lloyd
Insignia upon their capes. The skip
per is a trim, slightly built man of i
medium height, around 40 years oft ,
age. Two of his seamen are grizzled J
old tars but all the rest as youths ap '
parently ranging from 18 to 23. ,
When the vessel was released from .
quarantine she .moved up the river to '
the pier of the Eastern Forwarding ,
Company, six miles away, to a care
fully guarded waiting berth. On the '
way up she passed A dozen merchant
men lytng at anchor. . The first, a big
Norwegian freighter, dipped her flag'
and her whole 'ship's company lined ' "
against the rail and raised three rous-'' .
ing cheers which were answered with
a Willi. With another Norwegian and
two' Dutch ships the . submarine ex- f
changed formal salutes. She moved -close
by a number of British tramps .
in silence, observed with eager interest
by the English crews.
At the dock the boat had hardly
tied up, before an army of newspaper-'
men and moving picture photograph
ers stormed the place. They were not , '
permitted to get' near the Deutschland,
protected by a' barbed wire stockade
and numerous guards, but Captain
Konig soon appeared on shore and
cheerfully posed before the cameras. .
"Better hurry up, I haven't had my .
breakfast . yet and don't look good ' '
he remarked in excellent JSngllsh,. with
only the slightest trace of a Teutonic
accent. He stood "smilingly1 in the
rain, wearing blue flannel trousers ,
stuffed into leather boots, a dark gray j v
leather coat, gauntlets and a jauntily
set cap. : V, ,
When the photographers gave him
a rest he held a sort of impromptu
reception, shaking hands with every
body and telling how glad he was to
be in an American port. . . ... .
Later he was persuaded to bring out
his crew. ' The grinning yoangstera '
brought with them a large, green
board taken from the .stern of the
ship on which was painted in big sil
ver letters "Deutschland der Bremen." ;
Grouped about the. board with their,
skipper in the center, the sailors pos- ;
ed until Captain Konig said it was
time to eat.
A force of longshoremen was ready
on the dock to begin unloading the
cargo, which is to be shipped as soon
as possible by the Eastern Forward
ing Co. to the purchasers,, chemical,
companies in .the north. Probably
only a day or two will be required to
discharge and then the submarine j
will take on the crude rubber and ,
nickel consignments already stored in '
the pier warehouse' for 'her return'
trip. ,
When the start . back across the
Atlantic will be made is, of course ,
problematical. An official of the for- 1
warding company today said it might
be two weeks or it might be a month
but it was not denied that no advance
notice would be given and that thV
vessel would make her way out of tht
capes whenever and however the op
portunity might offer to elude the
enemy patrols which undoubtedly will
be scouring the Virginia coast waiting
for her to appear. . ,
Captain Konig went about his
preparations for entering at the cus
toms house without hurry or unusual '
formality. Just " as though his boat
were an ordinary freighter. He did -not
seem to be worried over reports
that the American authorities would '
carefully investigate his case to deter- '
mine whether the Deutschlaod should
be rated as an ordinary commerce
carrier.
A story that the Lake Torp-do Boat
Co. was preparing to libel tbe sub
marine . on the ground that her con- ,
structlon Infringed upon its patents
apparently did not Interest him. '
As described by Dr. John C. Trav-
ers, assistant neaitn omcer, who wai
taken tin rough the boat, the interior.
ar Dears to be mainly a mass of ma
chinery.' Dr. T ravers descended
through the forward hatch where he -found
the crew's quarters, bunks on '
either side of a --"ow passageway
leading to - artmeat occupied by
the captain and his two officers. The
captain's room la scarcely .six . feet i
(Continued on Pag O "
7
v
