Ggantic German Submarine Is Unloading C
HARRISBURG T KT <EGRAPH
T VV\nr M 1 '7 BY CARRIERS B CENTS A NVKKK.
LAAAV I\o. 10/ SIJT.LB COPIES 2 CBSTS.
NEW ADVANCES ON
WESTERN FRONT ARE
CLAIMED BY ALLIES
French in Sudden Attack Capture Trenches Over Front of
500 Meters; Five Simultaneous Counter Drives hy
Germans Checked
BRITISH TAKE THREE GUNS AND SEVERAL
HUNDRED PRISONERS IN THEIR ASSAULT
Now in Possession of Small Wooded District; Berlin Claims
Recapture of Trones Wood, LaMoisonette Farm and
Village of Barleua
Paris, July 10.—A new attack was launched in the Champagne
by the French last night. The war office to-day announced the
capture of trenches over a front of 500 meters.
On the Somme front the French took a line of German positions
in the neighborhood of Barletix. In this section 950 Germans were
captured yesterday and last night.
The Germans made attacks at five points simultaneously in the
Vosges but all their assaults were checked completely by the fire of
French machine guns.
The French attack in the Champagne was made at a point west
of Mesnil. The French troops charged three times.
On the Somme front north of the river the night passed quietly.
In the Verdun sector artillery fire continued at Chattancourt,
Fleury and Lafale.
London, July 10, 3.05 P. M.—British troops have made a new
advance northwest of Contalmaison, in the field of their offensive
north of the Somme, it was officially announced this afternoon.
Three additional guns and several hundred prisoners were captured.
The British gain has scored by the capture of a small wooded dis
trict.
Berlin, July 10, via London.—The recapture of Trones wood,
LaMaisonette farm and the village of Barleux by German troops
was announced to-day by the war office in its report on operations
along the western front.
German Trenches Are
Crossed by French in
Bound, South of Somme
By Associated Press
Paris, July 10.—The new "rench j
drive south of the Somme river yes- j
terday had been prepared by artillery
bombardments for more than two
days and the complicated system of ,
German defenses in the loop to the
northward made by the river, had been
disorganized. The task of artillery!
preparation had been carried through 1
rapidly and the infantry attack prob- ]
ably would have been made sooner !
had it not been for the bad weather. I
Yesterday morning the rain at last j
stopped and the signal for the assault i
was given. The French troops began j
to move along a two and a half mile
front. The left wing rested on the
bridge over the Somme, one mile east
of Tormont farm, while the right \
wing lay a little north of Belloy.
The left wing and the center j
crossed the German trenches with a j
single bound and progressed rapidly
in the direction of Biaches. This vil
lage was attacked from two sides, the ;
north and east at once. The Germans '
defending it resisted energetically but j
finding themselves in danger of being \
surrounded, retreated up the left j
bank of the river by the Peronne j
road. At 2 o'clock the village was j
entirely In the hands of the French. !
Meanwhile the right wing threw the
Germans into disorder and arrived at
the outskirts of Barleux where the
German situation now appears to be |
precarious.
French military opinion character- I
izes the capture of Biaches as a bril- '
liant and important operation. ;
Whether the Germans are still hold
ing on to the network of canals or
have retreated to the other bank of
the last plateau before the Somme and
the Somme, the French Dositlon on
the important point of support af
forded by the capture of Biaches give
them direct command of the valley
Immediately above Peronne.
Asquith Will Explain
Agreement of Cabinet in
Old Irish Problem
Bv Associated Press
London, July 10 — a * a moment j
when public interest is centered on
the battles proceeding on the astern
and western front, parliament is again
taking up the century-old Irish prob
lem. After weeks of negotiations
which led to the resignation of the I
Earl of Selbourne as president of the
Board of Agriculture, and the partial I
reconstruction of the ministry, the j
THE WEATHER
i- —I
Hnrrlshurg and Vicinity* Unset
tled weather to-night nuri Tuesday,
probably showers. >«t much
change In temperature.
Eastern l'cnnsy Ivanla: Cloudy
to-night and Tuesday, probably
showers. Moderate nlnds, mostly
south.
River
The Susquehanna river and Its
tributaries will probably rise. A
sta*e of about 4.3 feet Is Indicated
for Harrlabur>[ Tuesday morning.
Temperature, ft a. m„ 70.
Sun i Rises, 4.4,1 a. M.i sets, 7.35
p. m.
Moon ■ Full moon, July 14, fI.SS
p. m.
River Stage, S.O feet a bays low
water mark.
HlSfceat temperature, R4.
Lowest temperature, «3.
Mean temperature, 76,
Normal temperature, 74,
j cabinet has reached an agreement,
| the terms of which Premier Asquith is
to explain this afternoon. In antici
pation of the premier's statement vir
tually all the members of the House
of Commons with the exception of
those serving at the front, are in Lon
don .to-day. They went to the house
early to obtain seats. The Irish Na
tionalists, many of whom remained
with their constituencies until the last
moment, to feel the pulse of the elec
tors, were the earliest arrivals at the
house. The settlement already has
been endorsed by the Nationalists and
, Ulster parties but is opposed by a
; small section of the Unionists of Eng
j land and South Ireland,
i The terms of the agreement in gen
eral are known, but members of par-
I liament were anxious to learn what
I inducements had been offered to the
1 Marquis of Lansdowne. Lord Robert
Cecil and Walter Hune Long, who of
; fered their resignations from the cab
j inet, to remain with the government.
French Take Third
Positions Near Peronne
By Associated Press
Paris, July 10. The French ad
j vanced their line south of the Somme
! to-day a mile and a half, capturing j
| the German third positions along a
j length of three and one-half miles and
i are now within a mile of Peronne.
j French critics believe that the cap
ture of Peronne now is a question al
most of hours.
Under the system of interlocking it
was the turn of the right wing to push
I forward, the other echelons on cen
ter and left being saved to effect the
moves required of theni. The troops
south of the Somme apparently had
made good use of their breathing spell.
When the word was given they moved
forward with the precision of a well
oiled machine. They swept across the
| Northern end of the two plateaus
! which face Peronne, clearing out the
German positions and establishing
themselves solidly in the trenches,
which had been turned into quagmires
I by the combined efforts of bombard
j mcnt and incessant rains.
Incessant Drumfire
The Germans offered the best resist
ance they could but the French artil
lery has been keeping up a formidable
drumfire upon their lines of com
munication making it almost Im
j possible for them to gather their re
| tnforcement or food in suitable
quantities.
[ To-day's success is important in
that it should enable the French heavy
artillery to push forward into a position
whence it can pour a fire into the
fir.nk and rear of the Germans who are
I resisting at Combles, four miles to
! the north and at Clery, half a mile
I north on the other hank of the
Somme.
To-day's movement of the French
; paved the way for the next move of
a central echelon for which prepara
tion continued steadily all day, vir
| tually without interference front the
| Germans..
Longworth Bets Hats Next
House Will Be Republican
Washington, D. C., July 10.—Repre
sentative "Nick" Longworth, of Ohio,
son-in-law of Colonel Roosevelt, pre
dicted In the House Thursday after
noon while discussing the new Demo
cratic revenue and tax bill, that for
this and other "sins of omission and
commistson" the Democratic party
would be defeated next Fall.
Long-worth said he would provide
each surviving Democratic member of
the ways and means committee with a
new hat if the Republican majority in
the next House falls below 100. There
was evidence of delight among the
Democratic members. Mr. Longworth's
promlae is printed in the Congressional
.Record,
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, JULY lp, 1916.
2,500 CHRISTIAN
SOCIETIES OF
REPRESENTED CONVENTION
DR. CLARENCE H. CHAIN, H. B. MACRORT, HARRY W. KELLER.
Philadelphia, President. Pittsburgh, Secretary. Pittsburgh, Treasurer.
OFFICERS OF THE STATE CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR UNION.
BATTLING WITH
NEGRO OFFICER
SHOOTS HIMSELF
Pennsylvania Steel Police Chief
Injured in Struggle With
Maniac
Battling: fiercely with a half-starved j
and half-crazed negro barricaded In
a dark attic at 39 Frederick street,
Steelton, this morning, James Earnest,
chief of the Pennsylvania Steel Com
pany police and Caesar Noel, the
negro, were both shot and Dr. E. R.
Whipple, physician for the steel com
pany, had a narrow escape from in-
Jury.
The struggle occurred when Dr.
Whipple and Chief Earnest went
to the "brick row," as the barricks
[Continued on Page 5]
NOTIFICATION TO
OPEN CAMPAIGN
Hughes, Roosevelt and Taft
Will Take Stump After Cex*e
monies at N. Y. July 31
Bridgehampton, L. 1., July 10.
Charles E. Hughes will be notified
formally of his nomination for the
presidency in New York City probably
on the afternoon of Monday, July 31,
at Carnegie Hall. The meeting will
be attended by representative men
from all parts of the country, and the
Progressives will play an , important
role. It will be the first general gath
ering of the leaders. The notification
will mark the real opening of the
campaign. Plans are making to get
Mr. Hughes on the stump within a few
diiyfi after he delivers his formal ad
dress of acceptance.
It is possible that the nominee will
get started on his Journey to the
[Continued op Pn*ce 10]
FAIL TO CHECK
BABY EPIDEMIC
Infantile Paralysis Causes 14
Deaths Over Night; 103
New Cases
By Associated Press
New York, July 10. Rain and
cooler weather failed to-day to ma
terially check the epidemic of infantile
paralysis, which, since its inception
two weeks ago, has claimed 238 lives
in New York city.
During the last twenty-four hours
which ended at 10 o'clock this morn
ing 14 deaths and 103 new cases were
reported. Thirtv of the new cases were
in Manhattan, the largest number yet
reported there in a single day.
MAY CLEAN ALL. CARS
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., July 10.—A
meeting of the General Board of the
United States Public Health Service
was called for to-day to consider
means of promoting inter-state co
operation in fighting infantile pa
ralysis. Dr. William C. Rucker, as
sistant surgeon general, recommended
that each person suspected of being a
carrier of the disease be placed under
observation, and that all railway pas
senger cars leaving New York where
there is an epidemic of the disease
be thoroughly cleaned.
I'HKW! TO GET WARMER
Warmer weather during the later
part of the week is predicted for this
section of the State according to the
weekly forecast Issued by E. H.
Bowie, forecaster In the U. S. Depart
ment of weather bureau at Washing
ton. Cooler weather and showers dur
ing the first part of the week will be
followed by higher temperatures.
FIREMEN'S UNION TO MEET
Delegates to th» Firemen's Union
will meet In regular session to-morrow
night nt t o'clock at the Washington
flrehouee.
Registration Has Already \
Reached 2,W0 Mark; All in \
Readiness For Opening Ses
sions Tomorrow; Noted
Leaders Will Address Meet
ings
Fully 2.500 Christian Endeavor So
cieties are planning to send one, five
and ten delegates to represent their
interests at the big State C. E. con- I
vention to be held in this city begin
ning to-morrow afternoon and contin
uing until Krlday night. The regis
tration thus far has reached near the
2,500 mark, with 1,800 registrations
from this city and vicinity and about
700 from various points throughout
the State.
The State C. E. Union is one of the
largest unions In the United States and
will make a great showing during the
entire week. The Christian Endeav
or movement has become world-wide
and has a total number of 82.(ft)0 so
cieties with a membership of more
than 4,000,000 people.
The windup of the great prepara
[Contlnued on Page 3]
HUNDREDS CHEER
BTH REGIMENT
, Harrisburg Guardsmen Given
• Last Good-by by Hundreds
at Station
The last of the Harrisburg Guards
men are on their way to the border.
Lab. evening the Eighth Regiment,
of which Companies D and X, of this
city, form a part, passed through Har
risburg on its way from Mt. Gretna
to the Mexican border. Three trains
! were required to transport the men
and equipment, each section stopping
about half an hour at the Pennsyl
vania station.
Hundreds took advantage of the
good nature of the gatemen, who per
mitted everyone who applied, to go
down to the track platforms. Hun
dreds more, not knowing that the
gates had been thrown open, lined the
Market street subway and the Mul
[Continued on Page 3]
WARMAYFOLLOW
LATIN-AMERICAN
LAND TROUBLES
Grave Fears Expressed Over
Secret Agreement Between
Peru and Venezuela
Washington, j„ly 10.—official dis
patches received to-day in Latin-
American diplomatic quarters say a
secret agreement lias been made be
tween Pern and Venezuela with the
object of taking vast tracts of lands,
rightful possession of which they dis
| putc with Colombia and Ecuador.
Grave fears for the pea<-e of the na
, tlons Involved were expressed.
Shriners and Elks Leave
For Their Conventions
Headed by the Zembo band, more
! than fifty members of Zembo temple,
| marched through the principal streets
;of the city this morning, serenaded
the Telegraph and other large busi
-1 r.fsf houses and then entrained at
Union Stattion for Buffalo where they
will attend the sessions of the Nobles
of the Mystic Shrine for North Amer
ica. Many of the Shriners were ac
companied by their wives.
Hardly had the syncopating strains
of the Zembo band died down and the
icity resumed its usual trend, when 175
| members of Harrisburg Lodge of
I Elks, headed by the Commonwealth
I band, paraded the downtown streets
on their way to take trains for Balti
more. The Elks were all In uniform
and the "herd" made an imposing
scene as it tramped dowkn Market
street. It Is estimated that more than
300 were in the delegation sent to.the
Oriole City.
WARNS AGAIN OF
BANDITS HEADED
TOWARD BORDER
Carranza Ajnbassador Notifies
State Department Band Is
Bound Northward
By Associated Press
Washington, L>. 0., July 10.—A sec
ond warning that Villa bandits are
headed for the Big Bend district of
Texas was given to the State Depart
ment to-day by Ellseo Arredondo, the
Mexican ambassador designate.
He told Acting Secretary Polk his
government .jaad given him definite in
formation that the bandits were mov
ing northward toward Texas,
and promised co-operation of Car
ranza forces.
MILITARY HONORS
FOR HUTCHISON
Funeral of Former Police Chief
and Briga*ier-General of Na
tional Guard Tomorrow
Brigadier-General Joseph B. Hutch
ison, ex-chief-of-poliee of Harris
burg, and widely known in National
Guard circles throughout the State,
died on Saturday afternoon at 4 o'clock
at the rfcme of C. H. Nicklas, a rela
tive.
Funeral services with full military
honors will be conducted to-morrow
afternoon at 2 o'clock in the Pine
Street Presbyterian Church. The Rev.
Dr. Lewis S. Mudge, pastor of the !
church, will officiate, and burial will j
be made in the Harrisburg cemetery.
Military honors will be acorded the
soldier there.
General Hutchison, who was aged
55 years, died from a lingering Illness
[Continued on Page 5]
ISHUMBERGER AND
KEMPER CHEERED
( Rotarians Give Reception to
Two Members Who Win
Promotion in Service
The Rotary club at Its noon day
luncheon at the Columbus, tendered,
a rousing reception to Lieutenant-Col-,
onel James B. Kemper, of the Bth
regiment, and Major J. C. Shum
berger, of the quartermaster s depart
ment.
This was the first visit of the two
officers since they were called lntoi
| active serv l or Kemper went away ag!
| a regular army captain and came back'
as Lieutenant-colonel of the Bth,; >
jShumberger went away as a sergeant
major and came back as a major, the
order for his promotion having been
announced only a few minutes before
i his arrival at the dining hall. Both
were required to make speeches and
were cheered to the echo. Both made
wonderful records at Mt. Gretna and
the Rotarians are proud of them. They
were brought to the city by Andrew
Redmond in a speedy automobile and
were whisked back there after the.
meeting.
Dr. Samuel Z. Shope was chairman
of the luncheon and took occasion to
boost the Polyclinic hospital, of
which he was one of the organizers,
and to introduce Drs. Widder, Zim
merman, Shope, Stlne and Batdorf,
of the Polyclinic staff. The club drank
a toast to the health of Dr. Harvey
C. Smith, a member who underwent
an operation for appendicitis at Phila
delphia, to-day.
MEKTI;V(i AT RIVERSIDE
The regular monthly meeting of the
citizens of Riverside will be held in the
'Methodist enurch to-morrow evening i
at 8 o'clock, 1
U-BOA T LINER
FLEET LE
IN U. S. TRADE
Master of Gigantic German Submarine Which Is Unloading
Rich Cargo of Dyestuffs at Baltimore After Voyage
Across Atlantic, Declares Britain No Longer Ruler of
Seas; Travels 4,100 Miles in 16 Days
SUPER-U-BOAT ELUDES BRITISH BLOCKADE
IN HISTORY-MAKING VOYAGE UNDER OCEAN
Second Under-Water Craft of Fleet Built to Ply Between
U. S. and Germany Will Soon Be on Way Here With
Big Cargoes; Plans For Undersea Freight Liners
Conceived Last Fall; Captain Tells Story of Long
Voyage
Baltimore, July 10.—Upon delivering his ship's papers to the
office of the North German Lloyd Line to-day, Captain Paul Konig
of the submarine merchantman Deutschland issued a formal state
ment declaring his voyage across the Atlantic had broken England'-
rule of the seas.
No Message For Wilson
At the same time the captain disposed finally of the report ths •
he carried a message from Emperor William to President Wilsor..
saying there was no foundation for the story.
The statement, typewritten on the stationery of the Deutsche
Ozean-Rhederei G. M. B. H., Berlin, announced that the Deutsch
land was the first of several submarines built for the transAtlanti*
trade and that she would be followed by the Bremen.
i
. Another Will Follow Soon
Following is the statement:
"The submarine Deutschland, which
I have the honor to command, is the
first of several submarines built to or
der or the Deutsche Ozean-Bhederei
G. M. B. H., Bremen. She will be fol
lowed by the Bremen shortly.
"The idea of the building of this
submarine emanated with Alfred Lop
mann. then president of the Bremen
Chamber of Commerce. He brought
i_
h ii»^/V»>
£ At 3.45 this afternoon the police station was notified by <t
1 telephone that the body of a dead woman was lying in the 1
i old Pennsylvania canal bed a short distance south of the 9
1 Maclay street bridge. Captain Thompson, accompanied J
J the ambulance to the :ccne. The woman' identity is not *5
T yet known at the police station. K.J
| STEEL ORDERS SHOW DECREASE
? New York, July 10. —The unfilled orders of the United 'if
I States Steel Corporation on June 30 stood at 9,640,458 tons,
? a decrease of 297,340 tons compared with May 31, according
I to a monthly statement.
] DISCUSS COUNTY SINKING FUNDS J
& Harrisburg.—Whether the County Commissioners are ?
1 properly caring for the sinking funds by continuing to j|
i designate the Commonwealth Trust Company as the trus- * ►
tee will be threshed out at Wednesday's meeting. Trust '
- I [
f missicners. >
! U-BOAT ENTERED WITHOUT OPPOSITION
Baltimore, Md., July 10. The German merchantman' >
submarine Deutschland was entered formally at the Balti- 1
more customs house without opposition. Collector Ryan re- 1 J
ported formally that the vessel did not carry guns, was
{ , manned by a merchant crew, carried a cargo and was not | >
, I a warship. i J
! , RUSSIANS CLOSER TO KOVEL • jl
* ' London, July 10.—Not only have the Russians in the
v ! south occupied the railway junction at Delatyn, west of ( t
t 1 Kolomea, thus cutting off the Germans from their base, but f
1 in the north have made surprising advances. They are i
4 '
2 I within twenty miles of Kovel. j
< I STRICKEN IN AUTOMOBILE > ]
Carlisle, Pa., July 10.—Attacked by heart trouble while f
<> t learning to run his new automobile, Frank W. Hoffer, aged
52 years, died here shortly after noon. The car traveled 1
, for about a square not under control. > I >
MARRIAGE LICENSES
5I 1 '
y Tobla« Yoaktihl Hud Albertlne Dehncr, Steeltou.
J William Mervln llrougher, illy, nud Uertrude Trout, DUlahurs.
X Charlea M. Sebellat and Murtha Shearer, city.
'
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
his idea in tln> fall of last year con
tldentially befoi<- a small circle o
friends, and the idea was taken up a
once. A company wan formed undc
the name of 'Deutsche <)zean-Rheder<'i
G. M. B. H.', and the Germaniawerf .
Kiel, was entrusted with the buildin;;
of the submarine.
"The board of directors is compose'
of Alfred Lopmann, president of th
board; Fhilipp Heineken, general man
[Contlnued on Paffe 8]
