Oregon Historical Society
Corny 2U7 Second St
Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows'
' City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, JULY lp, 1916
NUMBER 14
TT TT IT T S
Immense Amount
Left by Visitors
What la the real meaning of the
celebration just past? There is no
questlon but what 30,000 people vis
ited Ashland during the three days
of the Springs Dedication Celebra
tion, and everybody agrees that there
was some money spent here, but the
question of how much was spent is
hard to estimate.
The general Idea is that an aver
age of $5 was spent by each visitor.
This would mean some $150,000 that
was left in Ashland in three days.
The Southern Pacific has a monthly
payroll of some $25,000 here every
month, and that is certainly appreci
ated by our business men, but to
thing that a six months' payroll was
brought to Ashland in three days
shows the advisability of such cele
brations as we have just had.
There has never been a month
when the receipts from the sale of
drinking cups have amounted to
over $100. For that matter, the
dally average for May, 1916, was
$2.91. for June $3.31, and for the
first nine days of July the average
was $14.87, or a total of $133.79 for
the nine days. The increase in cup
receipts on the celebration days was
more than 500 per cent; so that the
estimated amount of $150,000 Is not
far from the actual amount of money
left In Ashland.
The general opinion about the city
is that we must repeat the celebra
tion next year, get good new features
that will bring even mere people than I
we had with us this year. Ashland
took care of her visitors, everybody
was satisfied, and they could not help
but be, as Ashland Is naturally situ
ated to entertain thousands. Will
she? is the question, and that de
pends all on her public-spirited citi
zens. List of Parade
Awards Comnlete
The following list is the final com
plete Hat of parade awards. The pa
rade on the 5th having three di
visions, patriotic, industrial and fra
ternal only, all the entries had to
come under one of these heads.
Hence both the Auxiliary Club float
and the Civic Club float came under
the fraternal float bead:
i July 4.
Best industrial, first $10, S. P. en
gine and caboose; second, $5, Airs.
"Wilmer Poley.
Best patriotic, first, $10, Mrs. Emil
Pell; second, $5, G. A. R. float.
Best fraternal order float, $10,
Ladles' Auxiliary; second, $5, Civic
Improvement Club.
Best club of horseback riders, $10,
Medford Club.
Fest special feature, $5, Indian
float; second, $5, Ashland pioneers.
July 5 and 6.
Grand prize, decorated automobile,
$10, Mrs. Boslough; best decorated,
$10, E. A. Estes; most beautiful,
$10, Mrs. Rocho; most original, $10,
E. V. Carter. Specials, J. J. McNair,
$6; George N. Kramer, $6; Fruit
Association, $4; Mrs. M. E. Briggs,
$4; Ashland Trading Company, $4;
Wah Chung, $4.
July 6 Comic and Children.
Cannibals, $10; fire department,
$8; boys' band, $5; human rosebuds,
$5; city council, $5.
One dollar each for the following
doll buggies and wagons: Isadore
Howard, Elizabeth Schaumlofel, Eli
nor Swedenburg, MiSs CroWson, Miss
Swanson.
Tricycle, $2, Dennis Espee.
One dollar each for the following
decorated bicycles: Mrs. Stewart
Hatch's grandchild; Indian cowboy,
$2; Uncle Sam, $2; preparedness
float, $2; Raymond Bowers, $2;
roadster, $1; Uncle Sam and Villa,
$2.
Sunday School Day
Parade Big Affair
Members of local Sunday schools
and big delegations from out of town
joined In an all-day Sunday school af
fair Saturday. A picnic dinner at
noon was followed by an entertain
ment at the Chautauqua In the after
noon. At 4 o'clock the Sunday school
members to the number of several
hundred, led by the Ashland band
and attired in costumes of biblical
times, paraded the streets, making a
most creditable showing.
Pageant of 4th
Greatest of All
The Queen Llthla Pageant, Patrl-
j otic and Industrial parade, which was
witnessed by 25,000 people on the
morning of the Fourth of July, was
the greatest purade ever staged in
Ashland if not in the state outside of
Portland. The parade was over a
mile in length and was complete. Un
like most parades, there was no mo
notony, the variety of features being
most remarkable for a city of Ash
Iarfd's size. Medford was well repre
sented, as well as the other valley
communities. '
The parade formed on the several
streets adjacent to the East school
grounds and got under way at 10:30
a. m. In the lead was the chief of
police and the Ashland patrolmen,
mounted on horseback. Then Ed
Thornton on a magnificent charger.
Xext came the Ashland band in their
; natty uniforms of blue and white.
I The Coast Artillery Corps company
of Ashland received an ovation over
(the entire route. The next feature
of the parade was a group of thirty
marching girls In white costumes,
who when they reached the Plaza per
formed a drill to the delight of the
crowd. Following these were a num
ber of Red Cross girls.
These fea -
tures were planned and drilled by
Mrs. E. C. Gard with the assistance
of Mesdames Lamb, Brady, Banta and
of MeBdames Lamb, Brady, Banta, C.
Cunningham, F. Nelson, Loomls, and
Misses Eunice Grubb and Clark.
The mayor and several guests of
honor, including the Southern Pacific
officials, followed in automobiles,
and the springs commission occupied
a decorated car.
Then came the beautiful queen's
float, an artistically done float in
pink and white, with Queen Mary
Welsenburger bowing graciously to
her subjects. Miss Emma Jenkins
was maid of honor to the queen, and
little flower girls and pages sat at
her feet. The queen's float was the i
work of Mrs. P. S. Provost, Miss Lil
Han Patterson, Mrs. Hum Pracht and
Mrs. H. O. Frohbach. Mrs. C. H. dawn until alm08t dawn again, the their chief, remembrances the man-1 R- p- McClelland won the steer
!yaupel.wa in charge of the design-1 trafn Erectors, one "t whom wasner in ,.wJch the crowds were han- roping contest, which waa based on
ing of the queen's dress and those,! placed at each corner and tatersec- died. I best time for the three days, as were
of the maids of honor. - r - , most of the big money contests.
Children carrying flags followed
the queen's float, and then came J.
X. Dennis' little son in his "Llthla
Racer" automobile.
The G. A. R. was represented by a
patriotic float with members riding
in it.
A number of patriotic floats fol
lowed, the best among them being '
the display on Mrs. Pell's car, which
won the first prize.
Wah Chung's Chinese colony was
represented by an Oriental float of a
unique character.
The Vining Theatre had a coupe
with a pretty young lady representing
Mary Pick ford riding In it.
Next came the Medford Riding
Club In natty black and white rrdlng
costumes. There were eighteen rid
ers in this club, which won first prize.
Mrs. Snatchnell of Medford organized
the club.
A preparedness float caught the at
tention of the crowd and was ap
plauded along the line of march.
One of the best features of the pa
rade and the one which was awarded
the special prize was the Indian float
numbered 1 0. The noble redmen and
redladies as well warwhooped and
sang from a typical Indian back
ground. The pioneer ladies of Ashland had
a float with a regular old hack such
as was used in crossing the plains,
and with a camp equipment such as
was carried in those days hung all
over it. Even a candle mold was
Included, so perfect was the equip
ment. Several of the pioneer ladies
of Ashland walked and rode with this
float, attired in pioneer garb.
The float which won the industrial
prize and the most unique feature of
the parade was the "Lithla Special,"
engine, cab and caboose, which was
constructed by the local brotherhoods
of railroaders. The little train was
"there,"' complete in every detail, and
must have represented a lot of
thought and work. The train was
numbered 8 in respect to the eight
hour day for which the brotherhoods
are working, and bore signs, "Off to
the Round-up," "Let 'Im Buck" and
others. Little girls acted a sengineer
and fireman. '
The Medford band, marching with
perfect military precision, Installed
by their . leader, Director Rowland,
were next in the procession. And let
us add here that the four uniformed
bands did a great deal toward making
the parade the greatest ever, for nev-
(Continued on Pace Eight.)
ChmtBuqua
A Rln Wook- N. Y. Marine Band, Kaffir
nuiywwn Boy ChoU.f Mauson Mov.
26 special events, fine,
lectures, great. music,
lots of fan. Popular
morning classes led by
excellent instructors.
Arrange your work so as to get as much of
the Assembly as possible-tt comes
but once a year
Not a Single Accident or Arrest
Mars Handling of Crowd of 30,000
The most remarkable and credlt-
! a,jle tninS ,n connection with the, re
cent celebration was the fact that
despite the immense crowds, the
greatest which have ever gathered in
southern Oregon, the jams of auto- j crowd ever assembled in the southern
mobiles which turned Main street' part of the state, the whole celebra
into a Broadway and the Plaza into a ' tion, accommodations, entertainment
circling mass of cars, the glorious land everything else moved with such i teen'yenr"old boy' won tne 300 sad
time that everybody enjoyed, not a 'smoothness that the contrast to the : d,a' 'lrst I)r,ze ,n the "ticking con
single accident. occurred and not a : accidents reported from elsewhere Is ' test' over 78 entries. Broncho Bob
single arrest was necessary. This ' most noticeable. I Hal1 of Pendleton was second and
wonderful record is due partially to
the exceptional good nature of the 1 curred on the Pacific Highway and In I thlrd- The awards were popular and
crowd, which in Its turn resulted 1 Medford owing to the extra heavy 'not a word of dlasenslon has been
mainly from the fact that Ashland 1 traffic to Ashland. No fatal injuries ' heard resardlng the judges' de
was providing an entertainment resulted. jCisions.
which left no cause for grouches. In I There was no drunkenness or un- Buffalo Vernon captured the bull
the main, however, the record Is due ruly conduct during the three days dogging contest, with Frank Cable
to the efficiency of the force of pa- of the celebration, the boisterousness ' second. Through a misprint on the
trolmen and traffic policemen organ-1 which might be expected being of an ' program the winner of this contest
ized byChiet of Police Porter. The unusually clean nature! Visitors to ! aB ,n doubt until the officials got
' force of men was keDt busy from
Arfricfl AlltAC
In Second Parade;
The decorated automobile parade
on the 5th of July, while hardly ri
valing the pageant -of the 4th in point
of size
, was a most artistic parade.
Behind the Medford band came
Queen Lithia riding in E. V. Carter's
automobile, which was artistically
decorated with greenery and flowers.
The queen's float being dismantled,
Mr. Carter kindly donated his car.
The "Lithia Special" followed. Then
the Estes car loaded with pretty girls
and representing the Dixie associa
tion. J. F. Rocho's car was a har
monious combination of pink and
green and well deserving of the prize
wbic hit won. Next came the Cen
tral Point band, then A. W. Bos
lough's car done in pink and white
and loaded with pretty children. G.
N. Kramer's car in green and pink
created much comment, as did the
artistic green, red and blue creation
of Mrs. Jim McNair. The Civic Im
provement Club autos were entered,
and following were a number of cars
with less pretentious decorations.
Mesdames Monte Briggs and Tracy
were in total charge of the parade.
Egan Wins Valley
Tennis Title
H. Chandler Egan, ex-golf cham
pion, defeated Ernest Adams of Grif
fin Creek in the finals for the sin
gles tennis championship of Rogue
River valley Saturday. Adams has
won for the past two years and need
ed victory this year to secure perma
nent possession of the cup. Egan
played in brilliant form. No Ashland
entrants were listed. John Beeson,
former valley champion, Willamette
valley champion and one of the best
of the tennis players and enthusiasts
of the northwest, has located In Ash
land and should give a big Impetus
to the game here. "
Charles Zueblin, a great authority
cm city building and advertising, has
consented to speak at the lunch to
be given at Hotel Oregon tomorrow
(Tuesday) at 12 o'clock. Fifty cents
per plate. Ladies or gentlemen who
would like to be present should leave
names with Reed or at the Billings
office.
tag Pictures of the Ant
arctic, Sylvester A. Long,
Wood Briggs, Sequoia
Male Quartet, Lou Beau
champ, Skibinsky-Welch
Co., and Others.
tlon, courteously and efficiently
handling the crowd. While Ashland
had more people in It during these
three days than any city in Oregon
outside of Portland and the greatest
Several automobile accident oc-
Ashland will' carry away as one of
JlnfA DIhhmai.
iAuto Plunges Over
Forty-Foot Bank
D. T. Lawton, retired Medford mer-
chant. Percy Wood and son Denny , momentBi and tlie round.up ,a sM to
went over the grade on the Pacifio be one of the best ever held in the
highway Just below Ashland Satur-j state by big cattlemen who were In
day morning in the former's car. The '. attendance. Thrills were never lack
car took a 40-foot Dlunee over a 1 ,n&. bu' n fatalities resulted. The
brush-covered cliff into Bix-foot-deep
Bear creek. The car turned over
twice and was immersed. All mirac
ulously escaped serious injury,
though the boy was taken from the
creek unconscious.
Mr. WTood, who is partially par
alyzed, seems unhurt. Lawton was
going up the grade behind a heavy
wagon. He tried to pass the wagon
on the right and went over the bank.
The accident occurred near the
foot of the Wyant grade, and owing
to heavy brush the car is not notice
able from the road where it lies
buried in the water. How the three
occupants could have escaped death
is incredible when the scene 'of the '
accident is visited.
Offers Medford
Sugar Factory
A meeting of the directors of the
Medford Commercial Club has been1
called for Wednesday evening to dls- j
cuss a proposal received from the'
Utah-Idiiho Sugar Company for the
erection of a sugar factory at Med-j
ford for the season of 1917. Thel
sugar company asks the donation of
- .1T aUa nnA mAna ..,!- nn
.-Tnnn r 7. r :, ""'years-Mary Louise Murphy, 230
a $50,000 bond for the erection ofi . . , . .
, I votes, one dozen photographs.
the factory. Five thousand acres of
beets for the first year and 6,000 for
the second year is asked.
PHOTOGRAPHERS.
S All amateur photographers t
who have pictures taken of the ?
$ recent celebration are earnestly
J requested to give a copy to the
$ general committee so that they &
$ may be used in newspaper pub- $
4 licity work and other advertis- 9
tag.
' 5! '
Round-Up Was
Most Successful
A total attendance of about 30,000
people for the three days bespeaks
j the great success scored by the
j Rogue River Round-up. The round
i up was a great show from start to
finish, and the four hours of enter
' talnment every afternoon passed like
1 as many minutes to the Interested
I crowds. The attendance on the first
day was about 15,000, on the second
day 7,000, and the third day 8,000.
In the first place the round up waB
entered into by the general celebra
tion committee but soon assumed
such proportions that it became ap
parent that finances to guarantee it
could not be raised by subscription.
Therefore the following gentlemen,
Messrs. X.'onte Briggs, O. T. Berner,
C. Adams, A. C. NInlnger and Doc
Helms, took over the proposition as
a private venture, backing It to the
extent of $10,000. They succeeded
nobly In giving Ashland a celebra
tion attraction which alone would
TlAVO Q.ltfuflorl iho urnn-Ha n twl li.nt.fl..
" - "'. "u mtniijr i ma hoi Beem 10 ue awe to miss tne
have come out with a little balance Weed bats. Kenneth Lilly, former
on the right Bide of the ledger, which J Ashland boy, who 1b rated as clean
may mean that Ashland can have an- j up man for Weed, secured a home
other round up next year. jrim wtn two men on bases and also
One hundred contestants from all j got two other hits.
over Oregon and California were en
tered In the round-up events, and the
show was a contest, not an exhibition
with feeling between the contestants
running warm at times.
Donal Cannon of Pendleton, a six
l,eorge Fetcher of the same place
together afterward.
The Pendleton relay string ridden
I by Jimlme Taylor won the relay, with
' the Murphy string of Ashland a close
second.
Taylor also won the pony express.
Every day's program was run off j
cowboys were a clean bunch of fel
lows and Ashland regretted seeing
them leave, so many friends had they
made.
The full official time for all three
days will be published in Thursday's
issue of the Tidings.
Baby Show Prizes
Are Awarded
To the women visitors one of the
most enjoyable features of the cele
bration was the baby show held at
the Elks temple. Mrs. J. H. Turner
was in charge of this feature, with
Mesdames Cub Herberg, Elsie
Churchman and C. H. Vaupel as as
sistants. Thirty-five babies were en
tered and a good-sized crowd was in
attendance.
Instead of having judges, the
prizes were awarded by the vote of
all those present. The prizes were
awarded as follows:
Prettiest baby under six months
Frank Gould Deardorff, 110 votes,
gold chain and locket.
Prettiest baby under six months to
one year Lois Maurine Briggs, 140
votes, silver cup.
Prettiest baby one year to two
Smallest baby, two months In
grid Maedene Pedersen, gold ring.
Second smallest baby Dorothea
Weedon, two and a half months, gold
ring. t
Fattest baby Victor Sander, elev
en months, sterling silver bib holder.
Best natured baby Ford Reed of
Talent, set of gold pins donated by
Mayor Johnson,
Fewest hairs on head Russell
William Bledsoe, brush and comb
set.
Second prize prettiest baby 150
votes, Burrell Wyant, gold ring.
The Newberg. cannery, recently
burned, Is being rebuilt. '
Weed Wins Purse
In Classy Game
After playing two rather listless
games of Baseball, Weed and Med
ford tangled in an eleven-Inning
thriller on the third day of the cele
bration which finally returned Weed
the winner of the game and the series
by a 2 to 1 score.
The game on the 4th was witnessed
by over a thousand people, but
dragged out for over two hours with. .
little interesting ball. Sleberts
pitched a good game for Medford,
keeping the hits scattered and finally
shutting Weed out, while his team
got nine runs. The Weed pitching
was just the opposite. Tuerck did
not have anything on the ball and
the two twlrlers who followed him
having no moro.
The second game was a little bet
ter, Weed winning by a 9 to 3 score
with Anthony in the box. Anthony
pitched good ball and was accorded
fair support, while Caster for Med
ford was accorded the opposite and
-it 1 . .
I The third game was clnsRy base
ball, and had such an exhibition been
put on the 4th the attendance would
have increased instead of diminished
to the 500 who witnessed each of the
last two games. Tuerck and Sleberts
both pitched gild-edged ball, with
Tuerck having a shade the best of It.
Tuerck held Medford to two hits, ono
of which tied the score in the 9th.
Sleberts scattered seven Weed bln
gles through the game, but was
awarded poor support in one or two
pinches.
Over a thousand good hard dollars
are said to have exchanged hands,
because of the Weed victory.
Medford-Ashland
Choral Concert
The afternoon program on the first
day at Chautauqua was a sort of pre
liminary concert. The evening con
cert was the big vafley event. It was
given by the combination of the Med
ford and Ashland choral societies,
which are conducted by Messrs.
George Andrews and Earl Rasor, re
spectively. There has been a move
ment on foot to bring the muslc-lov-lng
people of the valley, into closer
touch with each other, and this was
the culmination of it. The p'rtnclpar
Instigators of this movement were'
the Medford director and his broth-
er, Ed Andrews, of Medford. Ther
members of the two organizations
have worked untiringly to be able to
put on a good program, and their
efforts were certainly rewarded. The
concert was the best of its kind ever
given before an Ashland audience.
The thirty male and the thirty-one'
female voices produced a harmony
of sound which was remarkably beau
tiful and impressive. Mr, George)
Andrews conducted the combined
choruses, and under his direction the
voices were almost as one. The "cre
scendoa" and "decrescendos" and the
"fortes" and "pianos" seemed to
come as easily as from one singer.
Among the soloists, William Vaw
ter of Medford was probably the most
universal favorite, Miss Florence
Hazelrlgg receiving second place in
their esteem. The other soloists also
should receive credit. W. Carleton
Janes made a great hit with a compo
sition of his own "Valse Serenade.'!
The singers were accompanied by a
thlrteen-plece orchestra. .
The Chautauqua management
hopes to be able-to start the session
every year with a choral concert giv
en by home talent. ThlB is a great
thing for the musical people of the
valley, and we hop'e that the move
ment will achieve success.
Round-Up Will Be
Made Annual Event
The round-up association is being
organized and the event will be made
an annual one. Citizens are sub
scribing liberally to the stock and
sufficient finances will be raised to
establish it as the greatest event of
the kind ever staged in the west.
This year, notwithstanding the ar
rangements and equipment had to bo
worked out from the ground up at
great expense, the show made good
and every' expense was paid, with a
neat balance to the good.
