I 1 Today's Metal Prices 7R L A i iV i SLA VT W X W X U P. M. CITY EDITION
b New York, July 10. Silver, 60c; iJ ' 1L L-X WEATHER Utah: Tonight and H
1 lead, $6.50; spelter, $9.25; copper, f Tuesday Generally Fair; Slightly H
J S25.0029.00. . ', ' Cooler Tonight. H
L FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 1 H
i . i . t B
Forty-sixth Year No. 164. Price Five Cent OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, JULY 10, 1916. Entered as Second Clasa Matter at the Postofflce, Og'deh; Utahi j U
German Submarine Breaks British I
I - Blockade and Astounds World I
i. " " H
. CAPTAIN OF GREAT OERMAN U-BOAT
i. DESCRIBES HIS WONDERFUL TRIP
I , Deutschland Is First of Fleet Built in Germany for Trans-
I Atlantic Trade Great Britain Cannot Hinder New Sub-
" V mersibles From Making Successful Trips Across the
1 I , Ocean Followed Straight Course Covering
If f 3,800 Miles, Submerging Only Ninety
E J j - Miles During Vpyage Dodges En- ,
if I 1 ' emy in English Channel Where
I M1 V Course Was Alive With
. Warships.
f VENTURE A GREAT FINANCIAL SUCCESS
i
r Baltimore, Trd., July 10. Shortly be-
(tore noon Captain Koenig of the great
r submarine Deutschland appeared at
the downtown offices of A. Schu
". mach,er and company, agents of the
North German Lloyd, carrying an arm
ful oC papers. It was his first trip
that way from the water frout,
-jr At the same time the captain dis-
( posed finally of the report that he car-
j) Vried a message from Emperor "William
1 to President Wilson, saying there was
L uo foundation for the story,
i V Submarine Merchant Fleet.
I The statement printed on the stn-
'1 tionerv of the Deutsche Ozean Rhc-
l deroi G. M. B. H.. Bremen. She will
- that the Deutschland was the first of
,t I several submarines built for lhe trans-
Atlantic trade and that she would be
Ir followed by the "Bremen "
Following is the statement:
"The submarine Deutschland, whicli
1 have the honor to command, is the
first of several submarines, built to
1 order of the Deutsche Ozean Rhe
dorei G M B. II ..Bremen. She will
be fol lowed. by the Bremen, shortly.
"The idea of the building of this
submarine emanated from Ir. Alfred
Lohmann, then president of the Bremen-
Chamber of Commerce. He
v. brought his idea in the fall of. last
i - ' year confidentially before a small cir-
cle of friends and the Idea was taken
I.' up immediately. A company was
A formed under the name of Deutsce
A Ozean Rhederei G. M. B. H., and the
I Mf Germanikwerft, Kiel, was entrusted
lMf with the building of the submarine.
H Board of Directors.
IjB "The board of directors is compos
Jm ed of Mr. Alfred Lohmann, president
F of the board; Mr. Phillip Heinenken,
K, general manager of the Nord Lloyd;
t Mr. Kommerzienrat, B M. Hernman,
ipr manager of the Deutsche Bank; Mr
Wk Karl Stapelfeldt, manager of the Nord
V Lloyd, has taken over the manage
l ment of the company We have
m brought a most valuable cargo of dye-HA-
, stuffs to our American friends, dye
frwy stuffs -which have been so much need
f' - ed for months in America and which
j the ruler of the seas has not allowed
V- the great American republic to im
l ' port While England will not allow
; ' anvbody the same right on the ocean
because she rules the waves, we have
v. PniTKi!iriTifi. eommenc-
Dy meuua uj. um- J"""-
1 ed to break this rule.
T "Great Britain cannot, however,
It hinder boats such as ours to go and
J! come as wo please. Our trip passing
M l Dover across tho ocean was an un
h eventful one. When danger approach
Ill ed we were below the surface and
here we are safely in an American
1,1 port, ready to return in due course.
k " I am not In a position to give you de
ll tails regarding our trip across the
. ocean in view of our enemies. Our
H, boat has a displacement of about
2000 tons and a speed of more than
Km 14 knots, heedless to say that we aro
M quite unarmed and only a peaceful
El fcfcwiierchantman. ...
I 111 13 Germany Expects Final Victory.
HvlW "Regarding things in Germany, i
Mmay mention that everybody is con
m J- vlnced of the full final victory of the
German arms over those of our ene
Qf'mles. All facts of the last 22 months
EH o to provo that there Is no doubt for
if this. All Poland and Kurlnnd, a coun
Hi try of tho size of two-thirds of . Ger
WL many, are since 12 months under
1 I --peaceful rule, and the entire country
I has been iTut under the plough, and
Vi I thousands of acres will be serving for
II ! Lhe next winter's supply of foodstuffs.
IB I Rains and warm weather in April anil
llll' May have brought a crop in view oi
III I fill Germany. Austria-Hungary, Bul
'lll '' Barla and Turkey, finer than since a
iv(l century.
illlll' "A Serbia, Montenegro and a great
iffli Part of Albania are in the same posi
Clw'll tIon- Besides Belgium, one-seventh of
111 France is in German possession and
WlI all in a flourishing agricultural sttae.
ilVil So there really is not the slightest
Wlvanxiety over the British attempt at
Slf trj'iug to kill by starvation a hundred
jfl million men, women, children and non
Jllffi combatants, the most devilish plan
IlH ever tried by any nation in the world.
fKll Boat Will Carry Mails.
Rilf "Our boats will carry across the At
Uf lantic the mails and save them from
RO British interruption.
WmU "We trust that the old friendly re-
Wm lationshlp with, tho United. States go
'iCfang back to the days of- Washington
iMrwvhen it was Prussia who who the
Hy first to help Ameiiciv in its fight foi
IW Treedom from Brltish rule will awake
B m afresh in your beautiJul and powerful
H 'ountry.
I ;Hi "The houeo flag uf the Deutsche
Ki j
I Ozean Rhederei is the old Bremen
' flag, red and white stripes with the
coats of arms of the town, the key
in the corner. This key is the sign
that we have opened the gates which
Great Britain tried to shut upon us
and the trade of the world. The
gates which we opened with this key
will not be shut again. Open door to
the trade of the world and freedom of
the oceans and equal rights to all
nations on the oceans will be guaran
teed by Germany's victor in this strug
gle for our existence."
Captain Talks to Reporters.
Captain Konig's own story of the
Deutschlaud's voyage across the ocean
was told to newspaper correspondents
soon after he made public his prepared
statement. He laughed at stories of
his being chased far off his course by
enemy vessels and declared during the
entire trip the vessel traveled sub
merged only about ninety miles.
"I have seen," said the captain,
"statements that we were forced to
go hundreds of miles out of our course
in the Atlantic because of British
warships This is not so, why should
we go out of our course except to sub
merge? That is the simplest and a
more effective way than to get out of
our course. Besides It is much easier
to submerge.
Straight Course Followed.
"We came to Hampton Roads by the
straight course from the English Chan
nel. We do not come by way of the
Azores Altogether from Helgoland
to Baltimore we covered 3,800 miles.
Of that distance 90 miles were driven
under the surface of the water,
"Throughout the entire trip the
officers and crew were in excellent
health and spirits. Of course, when
we were under water for long spells,
the air got very stuffy sometimes and
there was some inconvenience, but it
was never serious. The Deutschland
Is built to stay under water for four
consecutive days so you see we never
reached anywhere near our submar
sion limit on this voyage.
"The Bhip Is much easier to ride in
than a torpedo boat destroyer; much
steadier. Nothing can happen to her,
she is bo perfectly built. Of course,
she rolls a little at times but that is
no hardship.
"Any nation that can build a ship
like the Deutschland can do what we
do."
Commander Radiates Enthusiasm.
Tho German commander talked with
the smiling enthusiasm of a child and
his eyes fairly glittered as he related
the principal incidents of his remark
able feat.
"There is little to tell of the trip,"
he continued. "We left Helgoland on
June 23 and stayed on the surface into
the North sea. Before sailing we con
ducted trial trips and drills for the
crew for ten days or two weeks, hav
ing proceeded from Bremen to our
starting point. I had never been on
a submarine voyage and all the train
ing I had was received In the practice
trips on the Deutschland.
Second Day of Trip.
"Everything went without incident
the first day but on the second day In
the North sea we were In the zone of
the British cruisers anu nestroyort,. (
We sighted their smoke frequently but ,
only dived when we though there was
danger of our being detected. Of
course we were difficult to see be
cause we were running so low and our ;
ship gave out no smoke.
Went Through English Channel.
"From the North sea wo went
straight through the English Chan
nel, which is alive with warships, and
on the night of the fourth day we sub
merged and remained still all night
on the ground, on the bottom of the
channel. There were lots of cruisers
near us, we knew, ana 1L was very
foggy. So we thought it wise not to
take any chances and I gave the order
to submerge for the night and until
there should be clearer weather. The
next morning all was well and we pro
ceeded through the channel into the
Atlantic ocean without incident.
New Venture Practical.
"Our trip has demonstrated that the
big merchant submarine is practical
and that it has come to stay. Wo ex
pect the venture to be a great finan
cial success. This ship can carry a
cargo of 1,000 tons and on this trip
carried 750 tons of dyestuffs, valued
at $1,000,000. The charges for the
shipment alone will pay for the cost
of tho Deutschland, about $500,000.
On this trip we carried no malls nor
did wp carry money or securities, Al
i -bo we came without insurance, run-
Canadian helps
direct big drive
Gen. R. E. W. Turner.
Gen. R. E. W. Turner, V. C., a
Canadian, is reported to be one of the
generals directing the great allied
drive. Canadian officers have dis
tinguished themselves throughout
the war. ' s
ning entirely at our own risk."
"Did you bring a"message from the
kaiser to President Wilson?" the cap
tain was asked.
No Message From Kaiser.
"No, we didjiot," Captain Konig re
plied with emphasis. "That is a plain
lie."
"We will go back again carrying
whatever cargo there is for us to take.
And we can go without taking on any
oil here. We have enough left to
take us home And I want to say
that it will be just as easy to go back
as it was to come over. We will have
no difficulty getting out of the Capes,
that is If British warships do not break
neutrality and come within the three
mile limit to attack us. How soon
we shall leave I do not know, but we
will be ready as soon as we get a
cargo."
Captain Konig said that the Deuts
chland was built for submersion to a
depth of 300 feet, but that was seldom
necessary to go more than fifty feet
below the surface.
The captain Bald he had been in the
merchant service for many years and
that in recent years he had command
ed the Princess Irno and the Schles
wig. Trlbue to Crew.
He paid high tribute to the crew
and his fellow officers. The chief en
gineer is F. Klees; the first officer F.
Krapohof, and the second officer M.
Eyrlng.
Captain Konig said the greatest
credit for the success of the voyage
should be given to Engineer Klees.
"I depended upon him every minute
of the day and night," he added.
As he ended the Interview the cap
tain said he expected the next sub
marine merchantman to reach the
United States within eight weeks.
French and British Concerned.
Washington, July 10. Officials real
ize however, that the British and
French embassies, while interested
little in that the Deutschland has
brought over, are conerned over the
cargo of nickel and rubber she pur-
UUUQCU IU HU.IIJ UUI.1V LW Vrtil 1LIIW11J U11U
expect that nothing will be left un
done by Germany's enemies to pre
vent her clearance.
Although the fact that tho submers
ible Is unarmed is of first Importance,
such factors as the composition and
actual ownership will have to be es
tablished to determine whether the
submarine could be classed as a naval
auxiliary.
Naval officials, while attracted by
tho great size of tho submarine and
her long voyage, consider the fact
that she successfully ran the allied
blockade of first importance. Some
of them pointed out that, if a success
ful means of running a blockade had
been perfected, one of the most po
tent measures has become a thing of
the past.
Until the customs officials report
Is received, Acting Secretary Polk
said today that no action was con
templated by the state department.
Mr. Polk said that, for the time being
at least, details of Inspection of the
submarine wero within tho jurisdic
tion of the treasury department aided
possibly by tho navy department.
yj,
BRIGHT BOY
Teacher Willie, who -was that that
prompted you, then? I dlstinctly
heard someone whisper that date.
Willie Excuse me, Miss, but I ex
pect It was history repeating itself
, again. Puck.
V
GIGJWIIC GERMAN
BOATffilVES
The Submarine Merchantman
Deutschland Docks Safely at
Baltimore Quarantine
Station.
BOAT BRINGS DYESTUFFS
Fleet of Undersea Craft Built
to Ply Regularly in Trans
Atlantic Trade Captain
Describes Voyage.
Baltimore, Md.. July 10 Definite
announcement that the great submar
ine merchantman Deutschland which
reached Chesapeake bay yesterday, Is
the first of a fleet of such craft, built
to ply" regularly in the trans-Atlantic
trade, was made here early today by
Captain Paul Konig, master of tho
super-submarine.
"This is not the only one that is
coming" said the captain "Just wait.
There will be more here soon and wo
are going back for another cargo. We
are going to have a regular line."
Captain Laughs Over Feat.
It was to port officials that the Cap
tain talked as his vessel was prepar
ing to move up to dock from the lower
harbor where she dropped anchor at
11 o'clock last night at the end of
her memoriable voyage across the At
lantic through lanes of lgilant enemy
warships. He spoke freely to the off5
cers and laughed over his feat. To
newspapermen shouting questions
over the ship's side he was not so
communicative, explaining that a for
mal statement would be issued later
by the representatives of his owners.
v All during the night a considerable
part of lhe Deutsclilarid's crew had
been astir and a small searchlight
played almost constantly upon a news
paper yacht anchored nearby. The
tug Timmons, convoyed the submarine
and also kept the yacht under close
surveillance.
Shortly after 4 o'clock, when day
light was beginning to show faintly
through heavy low lying clouds and a
steady drizzling rain, a boat with
health and customs officials aboard
put out from the quarantine station
and went alongside the submarine. To
the municipal health officers, Dr.
Thomas L. Richardson, the skipper,
presented his bill of health, issued to
him by William Thomas Fee, United
Slates consul at Bremen on June 14.
Bill of Health.
The document describes the Deut
schland as "a vessel engaged In the
freight trade between Bremen and
Bust on or other eastern Atlantic
ports." It records her gross tonnage
as 791, says she is "newly built" has
a cargo of dyestuffs in good condi
tion and "a wholesome supply of water
from the Bremen water works."
One thing the boarding officers not
ed particularly there were no torpedo
tubes or guns of any description vis
ible aboard the vessel. They had been
told that she mounted two small cali
ber rifles for defense but came ashore
convinced that the visitor was wholly
unarmed.
Boat Brings Dyestuffs.
It was learned that the boat left
Bremen with her load of about 750
tons of valuable dyestuffs which her
owners hope to sell to American man
ufacturers for 'a fortune. At Helgo
land she waited nine days leaving on
JUJie .SO tU jJIUU&U. UCCIJ UClCllll 1.11
surface of the North sea td escape the
watchful eyes of the allied blockad
ors. Captain Konig intimated that
the purpose of his long delay at Hel
goland was to deceive the enemy who
undoubtedly heard rumors of the sub
marine's coming. "We stopped there
for very good reasons," the captain
explained with a broad smile.
This accounted for the belief In tho
United States that tho vessel was a
week overdue, a misapprehension that
caused German embassy officials to
believe that she had run into allied
warships, or fallen victim to an At
lantic storm. Once inside the block
ading lines and Into the Atlantic, ac
cording to the captain's story, he head
ed straight across and only deviated
from his courso once when he saw
what he took to be enemy craft. Most
of tho time he sped along on the sur
face, making around 14 knots an hour
with his powerful twin Diesel oil en
gines Submerged he could go at the
rate of 7 1-2 knots.
Meets Tug Timmons.
Appioaching the capes late Satur
day Captain Konig found his path ap
parently clear. Ho laid to with his
decks awash, however, waiting until
darkness fell before nearlug tho coast
When the bright half moon wont down
shortly after midnight he put on all
speed and shot between the Virginia
Capes to bo greeted by the Tug Tim
mons sent there moro than a week
ago to await his coming.
On board tho submarine are the
captain, firBt and second officers and
26 men, all wearing the regulation uni
forms of the German mercantile mnr
ine with tho North German Lloyd In
signia upon their caps. Tho sklppor
Is a trim, slightly built man of medi
um height, around 40 years of age.
Two of his seamen are grizzled old
tars, but all the rest are youths ap-
IS NEWS CENSOR FOR
MEXICAN OPERATIONS
Major Douglas MacArthur.
Major Douglas MacArthur of tho
general staff; of the army has been
designated by Secretary Baker as
official censor during Mexican operations.
parently ranging from IS to 23.
When the vessel was released from
quarantine she moved up the river to
thG pier- of the- Eastern -Forwarding
company six miles away to a carefully
guarded waiting berth. On the way
up she passed a dozen merchantmen
lying at anchor. The first, a big Nor
wegian freighter, dipped her flag and
her whole ship's company lined against
the rail, raised three rousing cheers
which were answered with a will.
With another Norwegian and two
Dutch ships the submarine exchanged
formal salutes. She moved close by
a number" of British tramps in silence,
observed with eager interest by the
English crews.
Army of Reporters.
At the dock the boat hardly was
tied up before an army of newspaper
men and moving picture photograph
ers stormed the place. They were not
permitted to get near the Deutschland,
protected by a barbed wire stockade
and numerous guards, but Captain Ko
nig soon appeared on shore and cheer
fully posed before the cameras.
"Better hurry up I haven't had my
breakfast yet and don't look good"
ho remarked in excellent English with
only the slightest trace of a Teutonic
accent. He stood smilingly in the
rain, wearing blue flannel trousers
stuffed into leather seaboots, a dark
gray leather coat, gauntlets and a
jauntily set cap When the photo
graphers gave him a rest he held a
sort of impromptu reception, shaking
hands with everybody and telling how
glad he was to be in an American
port.
Brings Out Crew.
Later he was persuaded to bring
out his crow. The grinning young
sters brought with them a large green
board taken from the stern of the
ship on which was painted in big sil
ver letters "Deutsciuanu uremen.
Grouped about the board with their
skippor in the center the sailors pos
ed until Captain Konig said It was
time to eat,
A force of longshoremen was ready
on the dock to begin unloading the
cargo which is to be shipped as soon
as possible by the Eastern Forwarding
company to the purchasers, New York
chemical companies Probably only a
day or two will be required to dis
charge; then the submarine will take
on the crude rubber and nickel con
signments already stored in the pier
warehouse for her return trip.
Will Slip Out In Night.
When tho start back across the At
lantic will be made, of course, Is prob
lematical. An official of the forward
ing company said today it might be
two weeks or It might be a month
but it was not denied that no advance
notice would be given and that the
vessel would make her way out of tho
Capes whenever and however oppor
tunity might offer to elude tho enemy
patrols which undoubtedly will be
scouring the Virginia coast waiting
for hor to appeal'.
Captain .Konlg went about his pre
parations for entering at the custom
house without hurry or unusual ner
vousness just n.j though his boat wa3
an ordinary freighter. He did not
seem to bo worried over reports that
the American authorities would care
fully Investigate his case to determine
whether tho Deutschland should be
rated as an ordinary commerco car
rier. The story that tho Lake Tor
pedo Boat company was preparing to
libel the submarine on the ground
that hor construction infringed upon
Its patents apparently did not inter
est him.
As described by John C. Travers,
(Continued on Page t)
GERMANS HAVE CHECKED THE I
RUSSIAN ADVANCE IN VOLHMA I
General Von Linsingen Stops Enemy on Stokhod Line H
French Advance and Capture German Trenches and 950 H
Abled-bodied Prisoners British Forces Report Steady H
Advances Germans Report Capture of H
Trones' Wood and Barleux on West- H
em Front. H
London, July 1 0. Steady progress for the British forces H
in the neighborhood of Ovillers on the Somme front is reported H
in an official statement given out here today. H
Berlin, July 10. Via London, 5 p. m.
The Germans have checked the Rus
sian forces which were advancing In
Volyhynia in the direction of Kovel,
the war office announced today. The
Russian troops moving towards the
Stokhod line were everywhere re
pulsed. The announcement says:
"On the northern section of the
front, apart from fruitless Russian at
tacks in the region of Skobowa, noth
ing of importance has occurred.
"Army group of General von Lin
singen: The enemy advancing toward
the Stokhod line was repulsed every
where. His attacks west and south
of Lutsk were unsuccessful.
"Army group of General von Both
men There was activity on the part
of our patrols which engaged in suc
cessful encounters in advanced posi
tions. "On the Balkan front our advanced
posts repulsed by artillery fire enemy
detachments south of LakefDoiran."
Paris, July 10, 11:45 a. m. A new
attack was launched In the Cham
pagne bj-the "French last -nighfc- The
Avar office today announced the cap
ture of trenches over a front of 500
meters.
On "the Sommo front the French
took a line of German posuiuus, m
the neighborhood of Barleux. In this
section 950 Germans were captured
yesterday and last night.
The Germans made attacks at five
points simultaneously in the Vosges
but all their assaults were checked
completely by the fire of French ma
chine guns.
The French attack In the Cham
pagne was made at a point west of
Mesnil. The French troops charged
three times.
On the Somme front north of the
river the night passed quietly.
In the Verdun sector artillery fire
continued at Chattancourt, Fleury and
La Laufee.
The text of the communication
says :
"South of this river our troops, con
tinuing their progress during the night
in the region of Barleux, captured a
line of German trenches situated be
tween the village of Barleaux and La
Maisonette. We took a total of 950
ablebodied prisoners in this sector yes
terday and last night.
Surprise Attacks Successful.
"In the Champagne district two sur
prise attacks by French troops result
ed successfully. One was southeast
and the other west of Tohure. West
of Butte de Mesnil we delivered two
attacks upon a German trench we oc
cupied and organized along a front of
about 500 meters. Here we took ten
prisoners. ""
"In the Argonne a French reconnoit
ering party penetrated a German
trench near Four de Paris which it
cleaned up with hand grenades.
"North of Verdun the bombardment
has continued in the regions of Chat
tancourt, Fleury and La Laufee. A
strong patrol of the enemy has been
dispersed with hand grenades north
west of Fleury. .
Simultaneous Attacks Fail.
"In the Vosges some German de
tachments attacked our positions in
the region of Chapelolte at three
points simultaneously. They were
checked however, by the fire of our
i, .riina fmmrl it. imnOSSlble to
secure a footing and were completely
repulsed."
British Make New Advance.
London, July 10, 3:05 p, m. British
troops have made a new advance
northwest of Contalmalson in the
field of their offensive north of tho
Somme, it was officially announced
this afternoon. Three additional guns
and several hundred prisoners were
captured.
The announcement follows.
"In the last 48 hours particularly
severe fighting has centered around
Trones wood which is triangular in
shape and measures some 1400 yards
from north to south with a southern
base of 400 yards and has been strong
ly defended by the Germans with
trenches and wire entanglements.
"On the morning of July 8, after a
heavy bombardment, we captured the
southern end of tho wood. Subse
quently we extended our position to
ward the nbrth and drove back a de
termined counter-attack with heavy
loss to tho enemy.
German Attacks Crushed.
"Yesterday afternoon, as already
reported, two more German counter
attacks In mass against our positions
in the wood were crushed by our ar-
Itillery. Against LaBsigney the enomy
bombarded the wood and launched H
two strong attacks against it from H
the east and southeast. The first of
these was completely repulsed. The l
second penetrated the southern end of W
the wood but the Germans were 1m-
mediately ejected with heavy loss. H
Later in the night a fifth desperate IH
attempt was to drive us from our po- m
sitions but this also was completely
crushed by our fire. H
"The enemy casualties in these five IH
fruitless attacks have been severe. IH
Other Gains Made. H
"At other places on the battle front mm
progress has been made. NorthwestH
of Contalmalson we captured a EmpH
copse and three more guns and f mA
morning we have taken several"',. H
dred more prisoners. H
"On the Flanders front the enemy's H
artillery was active and heavily bom- H
barded our trenches near Hooge for H
three hours. In this neighborhood wo H
made three successful raids into the H
German front line." H
Germans Capture Trones Wood. H
Berlin. July 10, via London, 4 18 M
p. m. The capture of" Trones- wood, mm
La Maisonette farm and the Tillage tW
of Barleux by German troops was an- IH
nounced today by tho war office in its H
ern front. H
The text of the statement regard- H
ing the western theatre says: . H
"On both sides of the Somme fight- H
lng continues. Our troops repeatedly H
repulsed the enemy to his storming W
positions and, wherever as the result IH
of his closing, following waves of at- Mm
tack they were temporarily forced to jH
yield ground we quickly ejected him MU
by counter attacks. H
"In the wood of Trones for in- mM
stance, which had been penetrated by JW
the English and the farm La Maison- H
ette and the village of Barleux, which lmm
had been stormed we consolidated H
and reconquered from the enemy. H
"At Ovillers there was uninterrupt- M
ed hand-to-hand fighting. The French IH
obtained a lodgement in the village H
of.Biaches. H
"Between Barleux and Belloy their mm
oft-repeated attacks continually broke m
down with the greatest losses. Fur- m
ther west they were prevented by our H
barrage fire from leaving their trench- tmm
"Between the sea and tho Ancro M
and also on the line of the Champagne m
and east of the Meuse artillery bat- M
ties wero revived from time to time. m
"Infantry encounters took place H
west of Warneton, east of Araen- mWM
tieres. in the region of Tahure (Cham- H
pagne) and on the western edge or. imm
Lhe Argonne where French detach- H
ments were repulsed. Near Hulluch. H
Givenchy and Vauquols we caused sue- m
cessful mine explosions. t
"There was very lively artillery ac- m
tivity en both sides. Our aviators m
shot down five aeroplanes and two m
captive balloons," 'H
Germans Sink Trawlers. '(mm.
Berlin, July 10. By Wireless to mm
SawMe. According to a statement H
given out today by the Overseas News mm
Agency, German warships between mm
July 4 and 6 sank eight trawlers near H
the" English coast. H
"German sea forces from July i " am
G " tho news agency says, "sank near H
the English coast the trawlers H
Queen Bee, Anil Anderson Peep H
O'Day, Watchful, Nancy Human, Pe- H
tuna, Carrlelbessy and Newark Castle. m
Of these Queen Bee, Watchful and Pe- iH
tuna. Cnrrielbessy and Newark CasUe. H
Of these Queen Bee, Watchful and Pe-
tuna were shelled with artillery be- H
cause they attempted to escape after IH
being warned." H
oo H
THREE MEXICANS
PACING CHARGES I
Columbus, N. M., July 10. Three M
Mexican residents of this place were IPH
arrested today after an Investigation JH
conducted by Captain Louis Van Scha H
ak of the Intelligence department of mmm
the United States army, charging them H
with concealing dynamite and fuses MmM
about their houses in violation of the Mmm
, , , mm
The Mexicans are being held penp MmmU
ing further investigation which W MM
have to do with a part they are- JmmWM
leged'lo have had in the Villa rp MM
m
JJJmmmmmm
