THE BARM DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 97.
BAR HE, VERMONT. MONDAY,' JULY 10, 1910.
PRICE. ONE CENT.
FRENCH CRASH
THROUGH LINE
IN CHAMPAGNE
Offensive Launched at .'New .Point-in
Lon Western Line Carried Them
Into Trenches Along a Front of 500
Meters, French Making Three Dis
tinct Charges
BEAT BLOCKADE
BY TRAVELING
UNDER WATER
Gigantic Merchant Subma
rine, Named Deutschland
Arrived at Baltimore, Md.,
After a Wonderful Trip
Through Atlantic Ocean,
Dodging French and Eng
lish Craft
NEW FRENCH VICTORY
NEAR BARLEAUX
SHE BROUGHT MAIL
AND DYESTUFFS
Ship Expects to Make Re
turn Voyage to Germany,
, vtxxx v illi; ouiiic vjruuua
950 Germans Were Captured at I hat Needed in That Blockaded
Point in the Somme Region Five Country - Her Carrying
itcacKS Dy vjermans ai as many i umia Tons
in the Vosges Were Put Down by
rrench Machine wuns - Baltimore, ma, juiy lc-n gigmtic
mercnant submarine Deutschland ended
her voyage across the Atlantic ocean at
6:40 this morning when she docked at a
Paris, July 10. A new attack was launched in the Champagne pier of the Eastern Forwarding company
rlisfnVt hv the Frenrh last nicht. The war office to-dav announced Pn tne 'tkrt of Baltimore.
the capture of trenches over a front of 500 metres. This attack I 0ne thin Wrding officer., partieu
. . , , ,,11-. , . u . 'y noticed was that there were po
was made at a point west oi iviesnn, ana ine rrencn troops cuaru torpedoe tubes or guns of any description
three times. vistoie aboard the vessel. A force of
r. t- u ,.t. i: t n !S "'"gMioremen was reany at tne Uc-ck,
Un me Mmme ironi, Uie rreiiun iuuiy a line ui ucmmu jwauiuiw which was carefully guarded, to hi-in
in the neighborhood of Barleaux. In this sector, 950 Germans unloading the cargo of dyest-.ffs. to be
were captured yesterday and last night. The French occupation of Kffi " iTLxlTX
Biaches, opposite rerorme, is considered tne most important gain y or two wui u required for unload
i ,ne r,f ihc m.f four HQV " V. uu"m Wljl ,ake "
4i. un, J crude rubber and n eke cons irnmenl
The Germans made attacks at nve points simultaneously in tne wmon are already on the dock. wb.n
Vnsroa W nil thPir assaults wpw rhfrkpri nrnmnt.lv hv French ine.'"ri na,K m be ma 18 Proble'
' "e- ' matical.
machine guns.
On the Somme front, north of the river, the night passed qui
etly.
In the Verdun sector, artillery fire continued at Chattancourt,
Fleury and La Laufee.
North of the Somme the British have made further slight ad
vance toward Combles. The British official statement to-day also
recorded steady progress for the British forces in the neighbor
hood of Ovillers on the Somme front.
BANDITS MOVE
TO BORDER
by Carranza Government
now. The Jcutchlaiid in lure neverthe-
le.
Mr. 1 1 ilkcn U an American and hi
firm ha Iteen in business here operat
ing tii under the American Aug since
Ihii. Carl A. lAiedenti. the Gorman
consul, in a member of the firm.
To whom the leutschland' cargo is
consigned Mr. Hilken said he did ant
know, hut he believed it wan ooimr tii a
. " . .1 rrci TT j trtA j t if i
nuinher ot concern Hadly In need or I np United ftiaieS IS VVaiTiefl
d vest una
When she will return, whether it .is
planned to have her make regular trans-
Atlantic trips, Mr. Hilken retimed to dis
cuss.
"This project was eoweived," he said,
"by German com niercial interests who
wanted to re-open trade with the United
State. We need aome of formally'
commodities and Germany need soins
ot ours. It is a purely commercial prop
osition and that is all there is to it. The
time has not yet come' Mhen Zeppelins
can , cross the ocean so these Bremen
merchant thought they'd try iubnuv
rine. 1 have kept the secret of cour
all this time to insure the success of the
project. We expected her several days
ago. Her crew must have endured great
hardships and to them, of course, the
credit for the sucres of the undertaking
is chiefly due."
If present plans are carried out the
public, will not b nliowwl to inspect the
unnersea wnnner, nor will anybody ex-
RAIDERS HEADED
TOWARD BOQUILLAS
Carranza Promised Co-oper
ation in Rounding Up
the Bandits
Washington, D. C, July 10. A second
warning that Villa bandits were headed
for the Big Bend district in Texas wns
cept the federal authorities be allowed to jffiven the state department to-day by
board her.
CARRIED MAIL AND DYESTUFFS.
Kliseo Arredondo, the Mexican a in base
dor designate. He told Acting Secretary
Polk that his government had given him
It is Estimated That the Deutschland I definite information that the bandits
Carried 150 Tons of Mail I ere moving northward toward Boquil-
Xew York. Julr lO.Vrhe German sub- ' J'' na promised the co-operation
marine. Deutschland, which entered tha of the C'arrania forces.
irginia capes yestcrday. carries a cargo
of about 100 tons of v-hemicals and dye-
stuns consigned to fiva New York houses,
t was announced hers last night.
Arrival of the undersea craft had been
anxiously awaited by the New York con
signees of her cargo. The supplies she
brought are those most urgently needed Greater Vermont Association Announces
in the drug trade and to relieve the
MORE BIG SPEAKERS
ARE SECURED
FOR MEETING
Persons who talked with Captain
Koenig of the submarine, are authority
for the statement that the only anus of
I any description carried are tour auto
matic pibtols belonging to the. officers and
a rifle, used for llnnc rockets.
Fifteen days out from Bremerhaven to
Baltimore, the submarine reached safety
between the Virginia capes at I:-0
o'clock Sunday morning, passing in on
the surface covered by a heavy pall of
darkness which setUed over the entrance
of the bay with the setting of a tell-tale
half moon. Once inside, the visitor threv
caution aside and began shrieking his
siren, signalling for a pilot and at the
NORTHWEST OF CONTALMAISON "m tJm" the attention ,.f ti
I tuff I hoinas r. Timnions. which had hpon
London, July 10. British troops have made a new advance waiting in the lower bay for nearly two
shortage of dyes. The houses here to
which shipments have been sent are Bad
ische & Co., Cassella Color company, Her
man Met as enmpagy, Berlin Drug com
pany and the Haver company.
While the New York merchants knew
the submarine was on her way they had
little detailed information regarding the
history making vovags, Thev estimat
ed that the submariii.i carried 150 tons
of mail which the business men of tier
many had been unable to get ja&t the
rtnusn censor..
ALLIES' EMBASSIES
REQUEST STRICT
INVESTIGATION
To Determine the Status of the Supe:-
Submarine As Yet tht Government
Officials Find Nothing to Determine
Vessel as Naval Auxiliary.
BRITISH MAKE ADVANCE
northwest of Contalmaison in the field of the offensive north of the
Somme, it wa3 officially announced to-day. Three guns and several
hundred prisoners were captured.
London, July 10. Four towns, to the
possession of which the Teutonic allies
have attached great importance, having
made preparations to defend them on the.
largest scale, Stanislau, Kovel and Bar
anvichi, on the eastern front and Peronna
in the west, are now coming within
range of entente allies' guns and four
great battles are expected.
Of the advances of the allies that of
the Russians upon Kovel from the east
was the most striking. The Russians
suddenly showed great activity along the
Sarby-Kovel railway and above that line,
with the result that the Germans, ac
cording to Russian accounts, hare been
driven bak in disorder to a point little
more than 20 miles from Kovel. Beyond
the Stokhod river German military stores
were fired, and some British military
writers are of the opinion that Kovel it
self may have been abandoned.
In Bukowina General Letchitsky ad
vanced upward of 60 miles and is now
within striking distance of Stanislau.
GERMANS REGAIN POSITIONS.
weeks to greet the Deutschland and con
vey her into port.
three hours later, at 4:45 oclock, th
big submarine started up the bay with
the German merchant flag flying under
her own power, piloted bv Captain Fred
erick D. Cocke, of the Virginia Pilots' as
n .. ,1 . . I i . v 'r :
, ..v . uau. wag makine more fchan 12 knots an
hour and could have decked in Baltimore
last night but arrangements had been
Vahington. I). C, July 10.--The Brit
ish and French embassies Ja-dav offiiiiil-
ly called the state department's atten
tion to the arrival of the German super
submarine at Baltimore Rnd asked this
government to assure itself of the ves
ul'a .)iarn.-tr This U'iH Ka Anntt it. vaft
, a k.. h. i,-,- f -the preliminary announcement
experts to assist the treasury depart
meiit.
The fact that the boarding officers
found the vessel wholly unarmed ges
far toward simplifying her status but
such factors as the composition ot her
crew and the actual owners will have to
be established before it can be deter
Philip K. Glecd, Prominent Kansas
City Lawyer, and Admiral
Robert E. Peary.
President Frederick E. Babbitt of the
Greater Vermont association, which
meet in Montpelier this week, was a
visitor in Barre to-day, being engag-d
in interviewing, with !Mcretary H. A
Phelps of the Barre Board of Trade, as
many .Barre people as possible regard
ing attendance at the big meetings
planned. Many of the cities and larger
towns of the state are arranging to send
large delegations to the meetings, and
it is hoped that Barr will do likewise.
burely the list of attractions provided
should insure a large attendance. Thu
meeting on Wednesday afternoon, July
12, while advertised as the annual meet
ing of the association, Is nevertheless
open to the public at large and, in fact,
the public i urged to attend. This meet
ing will ba free. . This session will be
largely given over to the celebration of
the '125th anniversary of Vermont's ad
mission to the union. The. ladies in par
ticular are cordiallv invited because the
gallery will be reserved for them.
Jn addition to the names printed on
of til.l
association two additional speakers have
been secured for the Wednesday aftet-
noon meeting. One of them is Philip K.
Gleed. formerly of Morrisville and now
a prominent lawyer of Kansas City, who
is coming to ermont expressly lor tn
purpose, having been urged to come by
Mr. Gleed will speak
BARRE AT BANQUET.
There Should Be Good Attendance at
Montpelier.
A lnrge and representative meeting of
the (ireater Vermont association is to
be held at Montpelier Wednesday and
Thursday of this week, July 12 and 13.
Barr should be represented by a large
delegation. All men wishing to attend
the banquet on Wednesday evening, July
12, should purchase their tickets at oncn
The after-dinner speakers at that occa.
sion are several of America's' most prom
inent men and without a banquet tickt-t
you will not be able to hear or see the
speakers.
The principal addresses will be given
by (ieorge Harvey, editor of the North
American Review; Rutland 11. Spauld-
ing, governor of New Hampshire; Ed
ward A. rilene, Boston chamber of com
merce, ilames H. Hustis, president of
the Boston and Maine railroad; Theodore
X. Vail, president of The American Tel
ephone and Telegraph company; Sam lift
" . .Mel all, governor of .Mat-acliuclts;
Wendell Phillips Stafford, judge of t)i
supreme court of the District ot !"'
bia; also the following guests of honor:
Admiral Charles E. Clark, Cnited States
navy; Major GenVral Leonard Wood,
I'nited States army; Carl Vrooinan,
United States assistant secretary of i'g-
rieulture; Hon John Barrett, director
general of the Tan-American Congress:
the governor and ex-governor of Ver
mont, the senators and congressmen oi
Vermont, president of Vermont associa
tions in other states.
At the meetings on Thursday, July
13, Lucius E Wilson will be present and
take part.
As an accommodation to the men ot
Barre, the Board of Trade secured a few
ickets for the banquet, which will be
sold bv H. A. Phelps to anyone who may
pplv, as long a the supply' lasts. Price,
$1.50 each. I
The hall used for the banquet is fitted
with a balcony or gallery overlooking
uditonum or banquet floor. J he bul
cony will seat about 600 people and the
ntire balcony is reserved tor the Jree
use of the ladies.
Barre should be largely represented
at this banquet and a good delegation of
Barre ladies in the balcony.
BULLET DID
DEADLY WORK
John Dennehy, Shot at Mont
pelier Junction 10 Days
Ago, Died To-day,
AUTOPSY ORDEF A J
Relatives of Youns Man
Came t Iviontpelier
a Week Ago,
BEGINS THIS WEEK.
Theodore X. Vail.
WILL LOSE ONE LEG.
ster and Was Badly Hurt.
BrattJeboro, July 10. A collision be
tween a motorcycle, driven by Lemuel
Gilson of Guilford behind whom was rid
ing Martin Tinneman of Bellows Falls,
and a Saxon roadster driven bv John
Manloy, jr., of Brattleboro yesterday aft
ernoon on the West Dummerstfln road a
made for receiving her with formal cer
emonies and fcer captain was ordered to
wait in the lower harbor. He and his
crew of 29 men remained aboard their
raft.
Regarding his vessel a a merchantmau
mile north of the village of Brattleboro subje(t to 110 unusual restrictions, the
resulted in such injuries to the right leg
of Gilson that it will have to be ampu
tated. Tinneman suffered a severe scal:i
wound and a long cut on one thigh but
escaped other serious injury. Manloy
was cut about the bands.
The machines came together at the
i unction of the Linden lodge and West
Jummerston roads, with terrific force.
Gilson'g right leg wag caught in the ma
chinery and when he was lifted out four
inches of the bones of the lower lee re
mained in the maohine. Sureeons had
Gilson and Tinneman taken to the Me
morial hospital, where Dr. H. P. Greene
attended them.
Three Points, Including Barleux, Are Re
taken.
Berlin, via Lodon, July 10. The re
capture of Trones wood, La Maisonette
farm and the village of Barleux by Ger
man troops wfcs announced to-day by the
war office.
I
COLLIDED AT TURN.
AUTO SKIDDED OVER BANK.
Mr. and Mrs. Raleigh Battles of East
Hardwick Injured.
A serious automobile accident occurred
a mile and one-hulf north of North Mont-
in
Two Motorcycles Struck at Curve
Middlesex Village.
A motorcycle accident took place on
the Middlesex side of the river at the
south end of Middlesex village yesterday
w-hen two motorcycles, one "from the
south and one from the north, collided
in front of the blacksmith shop. Both
cars were Harley Davidson's and carried
t people spiece, the one from Mont
pelier way having a side car attached
imr ine one irom rue north was a
tandem. Bystanders say that the acci
dent was not caused by reckless driv
ing by either party but on account of the
pelicr village Sunday forenoon at 10:30 j h "V "l ' V , . ro"a"
;.-i.. . ini7- r. ij : ... ,a P,nt- making it almost impossible
w hen a ISMti Overland touring car, owned
and driven by Raleigh Battles of East
Hardwick, slid off a 15-foot embankment.
Mrs. Battles, the only passenger with her
husband, was thrown out as the car wenfe
down the bank, receiving fracture of
her right arm between the wrist and tfce
elbow and also her wrist sprained. Mr.
Battles also w thrown out and got a
bad cut on one leg. .n other injuries
cou
to
rushed. Mr. and Mm. Battles were car
ried to their home in East Hardwick last
night, after having had their wounds
lreed.
The accident occurred at a narrow
place in the road. As the automobile
turned out to psss a team the front
wheel slipped over the bank and the
machine could not o stopped before ,U
made t.he plunge. The fop of the car
was smithed and there were a few minor
damages.
to see but a few feet ahead.
Aside from being "tdly jarred there
were no serious injuries to the members
of either party, but the cycles were
smashed pretty badly, especially the
front wheel on the tandem, while th
siae car on the other machine was brok
-n iap. jut ivifti in cF'in mjK'ninfs wen1
Wnt. and were left in the pimge to be
Jd be found by Dr. Frank Wheel. -Montpeli for the other repairs
whose house the injured people erjatf, j jgv 1
WAS LAST FIGHTING BROTHER.
J-
A. N. Williams of Bennington Had
Three Brothers In Civil War.
Bennington. July ln.J. A. X. Williams.
77, the last of four brothers who saw
service in the Civil war and the last lo
cal survivor of Co. A. 2d Vermont in
fantry, which wa reused in Bcnninzton.
died yesterday afternoon.
skipper, whose name is said to be Cai
tain Koenig, went up the Chesapeake
without waiting to notify local customs
and quarantine authorities of his pres
ence. He was five hours away before
Norman Hamilton, collector of Norfolk.
Newport News, heard the news, and
started on his trail aboard the coast
guard Onondaga. It is understood that
the Onondaga merely was ordered out to
keep the strange craft under surveillance
as a neutrality precaution.
The boat is consigned to A. Schumach
er & Co., local agents of the North Ger
man Lloyd line, and her cargo to the
Eastern Forwarding company, a concern
said to have been organized within the
past few weeks especially to handle the
business of underwater liners. The lat
ter company has a pier and warehouse in
which are stored the goods to be loaded
on the Deutschland for her return trip.
In (ierman quarters here the news of
the submarine's arrival was hailed with
the keenest delight. Those who knew
of her coming had been concealing alarm
for two or three days, as she was due to
arrive about the middle of last week. It
is understood that she traveled more
than four thousand miles, going some
800 miles out of her course to avoid ene
i my ships.
1 he lleutschland is no converted war
craft, but. a brand new cominetce carrier,
built in Bremen and sent here on a pure
ly commercial mission according to Hen
ry O. Hilken. the senior member of this
Schumacher concern. She belongs to tiie
Ozean Kliederei, limited, (Ocean Naviga
tion company, limited) and was launched
at Kiel in March.
The novel project was conceived about
nine months ago, Mr. Hilken said. F. A.
jZohmann. head of a Bremen exporting
and importing concern, who organized
the tX-ean Navigation company. Mr.
Zohmann has the important CJerman
commercial interests associated with him.
The undersea liner. Mr. Hilken under
stands, is about 315 feet long, and 3"
feet beam and is propelled by two great
Diesel oil engines. She rs as large if not
larger than any of "the Herman naval
submarines and carries 7.50 tons dead
weight or cargo. As to details of her
construction, Mr. Hilken said he was
lacking in information.
Most of the information that .u
ent to me. he said, "is prohablv care
fully tucked away in a pigeon hole of tlie
I J j: .. 1
mined whether the vessel could be classed "u 'T" efT , .T
a, a naval auxiliary. the t,m,e of the f at tiho
Collector Rvan at-Baltimore reported un,lon Q1ow e present time, ine
informally to-dav that the Deutschland "r.c
ex-ijov. r. v. .-miui, wuo win iaKi
The ijth Annual Campmeeting at East
Montpelier.
The l.ith annual campmeeting of the
F.ast Montpelier Evangelical Campmeet
ing association will begin on Friday of
this week, July 14, and will continue
for ten days, through Sunday, July 23.
Three preaching services are to be held
daily, at 10:3fl a. m., 2:30 and 7:30 p. m.
Other services, such as the missionary
meeting, business meeting of the asso
ciation, young people's and children's
meetings, will be announced as the occa
sion may require.
Services will be in charge of Rev. D.
W. Staffetd of Somerville", Mass., pre
siding elder of the New England confer
ence of the Evangelical church. He will
be assisted by Rev. 0. J. Harvli of
Westport Factory, Mass., Rev. I). F.
Burns of Cambridge, Mass., Rev. J. E.
Tavlor, pastor of the People's Evangeli
cal church at Montpelier, and Rev. N. K.
Davis of Boston. Mrs. N. B. Davis of
Boston will W the soloist and have di
rection of the singing.
The campground is located near the
Fairmont (East Montpelier) station on
the M. 4 W, R. railroad. Ground is pro
vided on which to pitch tents, and excel
lent board and good lodging can be ob
tained on the grounds at a low rate.
After a 10 days' struggle for life, John
Dennehy, the Haverhill. Mass., youth
who was shot in the stomach at Mont
pelier Junction the evening of June 2!,
died at ti o'clock this nimrning at Heaton
hospital, Montpelier. ' The physicians
held out no hope from the time he was
carried to the hospital but he showed re
markable vitality and his condition was
more favorable the last few days.
The body was immediately removed to
the Volholm undertaking rooms on East
State street on orders from State's At
torney, Fred E. Gleiison and an autopsy
was performed this afternoon by Dr.
Bingham H. Stono, state pathologist, to
determine what size of a weapon caused
the fatal wound and possibly bring to
ngni, omer tninr-s wnieti mav help the
authorities trace- the murderer.
The state's attorney also decided to
hold an inquest in the grand jury room
in the courthouse this afternoon" if As
sistant Judge George H. Dale of Water
bury could be communicated with and
reach the c.it,r in time.
Facts concerning the deceased are
scarce, but ft is believed that he was 22
years old and he leaves his father and
one sister in Haverhill. They were in the
city the Saturday following the shoot
ing ana visiiea ine youtn at the hos
pital, returning the same day to "their
home. bing without funds to stay in
the citv.
BIG ATTENDANCE AT FUNERAL.
BIG CROWD AT PICNIC.
by
AiA nnt. irtrrv frtmt tva flrmorl Kv a mr,
. .a . l Vermont's future.
a warship.
WAS FINED $50.
But Sentence to House of Correction Was
Suspended.
Pleading guilty to a breach of the
President Babbitt has also secured Ad
miral Robert E. Peary, the discoverer ot
the north pole, who will speak on three
essential principles of national defense,
following Major-General Wood, V. S. A.,
who will talk on preparedness. Major-
General Wood wrote ae late as July 6
that events were ohaping themselves in
peace charge, Pedro I-uiz was fined !M I connect ion with the department of tho
and costs and sentenced to not less than least, United States army, so that he
Presbyterian Sunday School Had Enjoy
able Time.
a year and not more than three years in
the house of correction when his case
cinie up in Montpelier city court to day.
The sentence was suspended on payment
of the fine and costs and I.uiz was placed
on probation. He was accused of attack
ing Krnest Hulet with a knite, succeed
ing in cutting the Htter's coat.
John MeMahon as first sentenced to
30 days in jail for a subsequent offense
of intoxication and was then ordered
committed to the asylum in Waterbury
for six months. William Oahill was sent
to jail because of failure to pay a $15
fine and costs of $7.35. ' ,
MAN WORE BLACK MASK.
Was Dragging Woman into Woods When
Two Other Men Rescued Her.
Burlington. July 10. Wearing a black
hood in which holes had been cut for the
eyes and with the hood tightly tied
down, Ceper Aashenfelter, a married man
living at 31 North street, was dragging
Mrs. Bertha Cirpas into the woods on
the lower road to Winooski in broad
daylight vesterdav afternoon, when he
was detected by Edward Lemoux and
Joseph Lee.
The two men ran to the woman's aid,
and Aashenfelter ran off, pursued by the
two men. The latter overtook the fugi
tive and after a fight succeeded in over
coming him. He is now in the county
jail.
THROWN FROM TEAM.
George Mann Received Cuts and Bruises
This Afternoon.
Georire Mann, while driving i Mm
down Willey street just after noon to
day, was thrown out when the delivery
automobile of the F'i-orsi Fruit company
struck his team. Mr. Mann suffered a
bad cut on the head and several bruise,
but aside from that was not. seriously
injured. He was attended by Drs. Duffy
and Chandler.
BAY STATE RECRUITS OFF.
knew no reason why he could not come
to Montpelier. Jnbn Barrett, a Yermont
er, now director-general of thu 1'hh
American Congress, will discuss our re
lations with the Pan-American repub
lics, and as Mr. Barrett is just back from
Mexico, his remarks will be of particu
lar interest. Carl Vrooman will also be
on the program Wednesday afternoon.
He is assistant secretary of the U. S. de
partment of agriculture.
The program for the annual dinner in
the auditorium of the Montpelier city
hall Wednesday evening, July 12, re
mains without change, all the persons
named in the preliminary announcement
having signified their intentions to lie
present. They include George Harvey, ed
itor of the North American Review;
Governor R. H. Spaulding of New Hamp
shire; Edward A. Filene, representing the
Boston Chamber of Commerce; James II
Hustis, president of the Boston & Maine
railroad; Theodore X. Vail, president of
the American Telephone 4 Telegrapj
company; Governor S. W. , McCall ot
Massachusetts and Judge Wendell Phil
lip Stafford of the supreme court of the
District of Columbia.
The guests of honor at the banquet
will include Admiral Charles E. Clark.
V. S. X.; Maj. Gen. Leonard A.Wood, Carl
Vrooman, John Barrett; governor and
ex-governor of Vermont, senators and
congressmen from Vermont and presi
dents of Vermont associations in other
states.
The meetings of the Greater Vermont
association will continue through the fol
lowing day. Thursday, July 13, morning,
afternoon and evening sessions being
scheduled, when there will be. conferences
under the leadership of Lucius E. Wil
son of East Dorset.
AREY DAVIS.
rntifh admiralty office, but I don't car ice to 7,100.
Two Thousand Men Left Framingham
To-day for the Border.
Framingham. Mass., July in.Tw-o
thousand m-ruits ien ior ine Mctima
horaer to-dav to i"i!i the Massachusetts : er Co.
fr-e air-ady Cere. This win bring the! formerly of Barre. Aftor a wedding trip
state's quota of men in the federal serr- to St. Albans. Mr. and Mrs. Arey u!
Marriage Took Place at Berlin To-day-Groom
is Street Car Conductor.
Miss Ethel May Davis and Vinal A. M.
Arer. both of Montpelier. were married
at the Berlin Congregational church this
momnig at 8 o'clock by Rev. Frank
Blomfield. The bride recently came t5
Montpelier from Portland, Me., and the
groom is employed as a conductor by
the Barre & Montpelier Traction ft Toir-
He is the son of Mrs. K. T. Arev.
The circus at Montpelier was a minor
attraction to some 2(H) children, parents
and friends of the Presbyterian Sunday
school who enjoyed the annual picnic at
Caledonia park Saturday. Favorable
weather shone on both circus and picnic,
but those who enjoyed the outing at the
park spent a more enjoyable afternoon
perhaps than did those who pushed
through the crowds to see the "big show."
Along towards noon a large number had
arrived at the park and were busy pre
paring for the sports to follow.
An exciting game of baseball resulted
in a 6 to 5 victory for the ''boys,'' over
the men's club. Umpire Arthur Young
seemed to have a good eye nnd caught
the older ones napping. Races, place
kicks, ball-throwing contest and other
field sports consumed the greater part of
the afternoon. Ice cream and lemonade
were served to everyone on the park by
the men's club. A special train over the
M. & W. R. railroad at 7:30 brought the
picnickers to their homes.
The results of the sport are given
here: 1st, Daniel Halsall. 2d Elizabeth
McDonald, 3d Eveline Watt: girls' race,
5 to 8 years, 1st Elizabeth McDonald, 2d
Nellie Cowie, 3d Caroline Mut-h: boys. 5
to 8, 1st Alex Birnie, 2d Harry Dikes. 3d
James Walker; girls. 8 to 10 (double en
try) 1st Clara Lawless and Jennie Mor
gan, 2d Marjorie Watt and Ina Walker,
3d Christina (Jordon and Mary Ross;
boys, 10 to 12. 1st Charles Main.' 2d Wil
liam McBain, 3d Leslie McKenr.ie; girls.
10 to 12, 1st Jennie Milne, 2d Elizabeth
Carle, 3d Florence Sellberg; girls, 12 to
16. 1st Gladys Mnssie, 2d Caroline Stew
art: boys long distance, Wendell tahle;
ladies' place kick, Mrs. George Young. 65
feet: men's place kick, Robert Johnston;
throwing baseball, Allen Johnston: three-
legged race. 1st John Farrar and Wendell
Cable, 2d Leslie McKenzie anrt u illiam
Clubb. 3d Charles Young and Alex Mas
sie. A game of soccer football between
the mnrried and single men resulted in
a 2 to 0 victory for the married players.
This is according to the umpiring of J. A.
Robertson. Snpt. George Young was pre
sented a souvenir of the occasion. Every
one reported a good time.
Included Knights of Columbus, in Which
W. C. Quinlan Was a Member.
The funeral of William C. Quinlan, who
died Thursday night at his home, was
held Sunday morning at 10:30 from St.
Monica's church. Father P. M. McKen-
na officiating. The church was filled with
friends, many of whom came from out of
town.
The Knight of Columbus attended in
a body and marched from the honiu
at 172 North Main street, to the church.
The floral contributions were many and
beautiful. Interment was in the Cathol'p
cemetery on Beckley street.
The pall bearers weTe: firant Lane,
H. K. Bush. John Byrnes, J. K. Pirie, C
W. Aver ill and A. C. Moore. Honorary
bearers were D. W. McDonald, Lackey
Good, James Coutts, Joseph Walker,
James H. Wiggins and O. W. Boyea. A
special delegation from the Knights of
Columbus consisted of T. J. Dcnninc, Pe
ter C. Owens, Martin Riley and Jame
Brown.
Mr. Quinlan was born in New Bruns
wick Oct. Ifl. I Soft, and had lived in this
citv nearly 32 rears. He was a pioneer '
in the granite industry and remained
in that business until more recently when.
his health broke. Much of the last two
years he sperjt in California. ,
FUNERAL OF FRED ADAMS.
Was Held Saturday from the Home of
His Daughter.
The funeral , of Fred Adams, who die I
Wednesday afternoon of hemorrhage of
the brain at his home at P6 Maple ave
nue, was held from the home of his
daughter. Mrs. Elmer Clark, at 76 Maple
avenue. Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. Bert J. Lehigh of the Baptist church
officiating.
During the service Mrs. M. D. Lamb
sang three selections, "Jesus. Lover of
My Soul." "Lead Kindly Light." nnd
"Abide with Me." There was a large
attendance, among those from out ot
town to attend being Mr. and Mrs. I-'nd
H. Adams of Fayston. Mr. and Mr.
Clark B. Roberts of Montpelier. Hoyt
Gallop and Miss Gertrude Spencer of
Plainfield. Interment was in Hope cem
etery. -The pall bearers were: t harles
Carpenter. S. S. Smith. Thomas Bailey,
Fred llliams. I), ininleary anrt j. Craw
ford.
EIGHT FIREMEN OVERCOME
ARCHIE B0NNANIS FUNERAL.
Seven lines of hose were laid, in
Archie Bonnani who an hoit 3.2O0 feet being used
reside at 2 Cliff street, Montpelier.
Was Held at Perry & Noonan Undertak
ing Rooms Saturday.
The funeral of
committed suicide at his home at 22 Ladd
street Friday morning, was held from
the undertaking rooms of Terry and
Noonan on Depot square at 3 o' lok
Saturday afternoon, the Rev. W. J. i
Beattie of the Episcopal church officiat
ing. A smsll group of friends were
present. The interment was in Hope
cemetery.
The pull besrrs were: William Vih-
olon. William Warnes. A. Abhiatti. S.
Meehelii and A. Del Aqua, friends of the
deceased.
Fighting Fire in a Burlington Building
That Housed Part of Department.
Burlington. July 10. Eight firemen,"
including Chief Stockwetl. were overcvn
by illuminating gas and smoke hefore
an incendiary fire in the old city market
building was extinguished early Similar
morning. Fire station No. 4 is located
in the north end of the structure, and
Fireman Georse ljimudsre was the first
to be awakened by a rhokine sensation.
The blaze started in the cellar beneath
the office of the street department in a
number of empty tar barrels and had
gained great headway, spreading te piles
of lumber and the voting booth, which
were stored there. These were well"
charred, and it will lie necessary to put
in new joints, lining and floor to the
building. On account of the quick and
persistent work of the members of the
fire department, the damage will not b
j large.
The fire burned off the sras connections
to the meters in the cellar, letting th"
illuminating gs into the cellar, but not
near enouzh to the blae so that it be
came icnited. The burning tar barrel
gave off a Mens and heavy smoke, with
another ca caused by the rreoote in thj
tar. The firemen, in their attempt tc
sve the building. puhed into th cellar
from the rt doors and hile fighting the.
fire d:d n" notice the ga-. and it was
not until thv reached the open air that
ther became unconscious.
