i
DAILY EDITION
i ; - , ' - i
VOL. VI., No. 810.
of
-ABB, JOSEPHINE COUNTY OBEOOX, MONOAV, ' JULY 10,
whole numbes 1793.
T7,
Ri
PIP
fi ii 1111 a. in
r No Other Town in tU . Jorld the Size of Grants Pass lias a Paper With Full Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.
LAI
HE
mm
IE
ALUESPRESS
FQRWARDON
8011
Armies cf Beth British ad
French Ccztinae to Advance
Gty cf Percys Now Becg
at Mercy cf French Gcss
; Lundoo, July 10. Tbe Anglo
French armlet pressed forward on
both sides of tbe river 8omrae In
severe fighting last night.' despite de
termined German attempts to tern
tbe great offensive.
The German war office admitted
tola afternoon that Brltlah troops
penetrated Tronea wood, north of the
river. -
Berlin alao admit that the French
penetrated the village of Blacbea, leai
than two nillea from the city ot Per
onne, the village of Bartons and other
German positions. ' ;
A brief bulletin from General llalg,
British commander, mnnounced (hat
the Britlnh. after capturing the south
rn end ot Tronea wood have made
further progress northward.
The French war office announced
light additional progress aouth of
the 8otnme and the capture ot (00
ysrds of German trenches In a sur
prise attack In the Champagne ra
tion , The German war office con
tradicted thla statement.
i PROGRESSIVES
WILL HELP Bin
CD. P. I Pill
New York, July 10. Six former
progresalve party leaders are among
the 17 members ot the republican na
tional campaign committee whose se
lection was announced by Chairman
WUlcox today to direct the Hughes
campaign.
v Tbe forrter bull mooters are:
Everett Colby, New Jersey; James"
R. Garfield. Ohio; Harold I Ickes,
Illinois; George W. Perkins, New
York; Chester II. Rowell, California;
Oncer 8. Strauss. New York.
The other members of the cam
paign committee are:
John T. Adams, Iowa; Win. II.
Crocker, California; F. W. Kstabrook,
N'ew Hampshire; James A. Hemen
way, Indiana; A. T. Hart, Kentucky;
II. B. Howell. Nebraska; Alva Martin.
Virginia; Herbert Parsons. New
York; 8. A. Perkins, Washington;
Ralph E. Williams, Oregon, and
Charles B. Wsrren. Michigan.
Jamea B. Reynolds was re-elected
secretary of the committee. The
tressurer has not yet been selected.
Paris, July 10. French troops
pressed doner to the railway town ot
Peronne, the Immediate objective o
tbelr great offensive, In furious flgbt
, log south of the Soinme last night,
capturing a German line of trenches
tn the region of Carleui, southwest ot
Peronne.
At the itme time the French broke
out with an attack In the Champagne
region, capturing German trenches
weal ot Butte I Mesnll on a B00
yard front after three attacka.
The successful attack In the Cham
pagne region, where there has been
little fighting In several weeks, ap
parently was a diversion to prevent
the Germans from sending reinforce
ments from that front to the Somme
tattle ground. The war office, In an
nouncing these gains today reported
a lull on the French front north of
the Somme during last night.
By advaclng In the region of Bar
leux, the French last night brought
up their right wing to within two
Ttitloa of the Somme south of Peronne.
ffc village of iBUchen, captured In
yesterday's Jlghtlng, lies less than a
mile nqrthwent of Peronne on the
Somme.
The French now threaten In their
next attack on the south bank ot the
Somme to squeexe the Germans out
of all their positions west of the river
In the bend of the Somme. The Ger
mans already have withdrawn their
heavy guns to the east bank of the
river.
The historic city ot Peronne Is now
at the mercy of French guns. French
lines are drawn so close that not
only long range pieces but small field
guns are placed within easy range of
the Peronne railway station. From
a rise of ground near Barleux French
forces can look down upon the town
Trom across the river and watch the
movements of German troops,
' In the fluting near Barleux Inut
right the French took 950 unwound
nrlsoners, Tn yesterday's fighting
at Blaches 800 Germans were cap
tured. '
During the first eight days of .the
f Continued on page 9)
WOMAN SUSPECTED
OF JAIL BREAK AID
Olympla, July 10. Evidence Is to
day piling up, according to Prosecutor
Yantls, to show that 'Mrs. John F.
Gillies waa seriously Implicated In
the Jail break Saturday night of her
husband, convicted looter of the state
Industrial Insurance fund, and Henry
Roberts, convicted of a statutory of
fense. Mrs. Gillies, placed under arrest
8unday night, maintains her Inno
cence. According to Chester Bate
man, chauffeur, Mrs. Gillies called
him up at six o'clock Saturday night,
told, him she was to make a trip
later that night, and asked him to
hold himself ready, but to aay noth
ing to any one.
Between 10:30 and 11 p. m. the
called him again, he aays, told htm
to drive to her house, which Is one
block from the county Jail. There
two persons, dressed at women, whom
Bateman now suspects to have been
Gillies and Roberts, entered. He
drove them to Chehslls, arriving at
three o'clock Bunday morning, a few
minutes before the Portland train
left. One ot the "women," says Bate
man, poked him In the back approv
ingly and gave him a $20 bill.
HOLD HIGHWAYMAN
OPKIUTHH IS 8POKANK
Spokane, July 10. The highway
man who last month held up a street
car under the eyes of two policemen
Is back In Spokane with the avowed
Intention ot holding up an automo
bile each night thla week In spite ot
the police. Last night's victim was
Claude A. Owen, a Jitney driver. For
an hour Owen drove his machine
about the streets while the robber aat
in the rear seat and covered htm
with a revolver. A lady passenger
was not molested.
The robber, declared his pal was
sick In a hospital and he would have
to hold up several automobiles to pay
his doctor bill.
HTRIKKIlRRAKNItH LOAD
THE STEAM KH UN A V Kit
'Portland, July 10. More police
wee placed about the'Ainsworth dock
today to prevent,'' clashes, between
striking longshoremen and strike
breakers who are endeavoring to load
m steituer itieavev, T. J. Andrews;
a' strikebreaker, was badly beaten In
an encounter with strikers late yes
terday. ; No policemen saw the ftgt
and no arrests"wefe"m'ade.
IP OVER ATLANTIC IS
IDEIHTllP
Captain cf Novel Craft, Which He Says Is First cf a line
" of Under-Sea Merchantmen, Has forgo cf Dye-Strfs
and Other Goods Valued at ; a KilEsa Dollars, acd
Makes tbe Remarkable Voyage in 17 Days Frca Kiel
Baltimore. July, 10. In a formal
statement at noon today, Captain
Paul Koenlg, commander of the giant
Deutschland, declared the vessel
which arrived In Baltimore today will
be followed soon by others. The first
of these, he said, will be the Bremen.
He brought a valuable cargo ot
dyestuffs, be said, for "our American
friends.
The statement follows?
"The submarine eutschland.
which I have the honor to command,
is the first of several submarines boat
to the order ot the Deutsche Oxean
Rheiderel O. M. B. H., of Bremen,
which will be followed by the
Bremen shortly. . ,
"The Idea ot the building of this
submarine emanated from Mr. Al
fred Lohmann, the president of the
Bremen chamber ot commerce. He
brought his Idea in the fall of last
year, confidentially, before a small
circle of friends, and the Idea was
taken up at once. A company was
formed under the name of 'Deutsche
Oteaa Rhederel O. M. B. H.,' and the
Germanlowerft. Kiel, was entrusted
with the building of the submarines.
"The board of directors Is eom
posed of Mf? Alfred -Lohmann, presi-
deht'of the hoard; Mr. Phillip Henne-
ken. general manager of the North
German-Lloyd; Mr. Kommeraienrat;
P. M. Herrmann, manager of the
Deutsche bank. ' Mr. Carl Stapel
feldt, manager ot the North German-
Lloyd, has taken over the manage
ment of the company.
'."We have brought a most valu
able cargo of dyestuffs to our Ameri
can friends, dyestuffs which have
been so much needed for months In
America, and which the rulers of the
seas' have not allowed the great
American republic to Import. While
England will not allow anybody the
same right on the ocean because she
rules the waves,' we have, by means of
the submarine, commenced to break
this rule."
"England can not. however, hinder
boats snch aa ours to go and come as
we please. Our trip was an unevent
ful one. When being approached we
went below the surface, and here we
are, safe in an American port, ready
to return In due course.
"I am not In a position to give you
fuU details regarding our trip across
the ocean in view ot our enemies.
Our ship has a speed of more than
16 knots an hour and a displacement
of 2,000 tone. Our ship is unarmed
and is a peaceful merchantman.
"Regarding thtngs In Germany, I
might -mention that everybody Is con
vinced of the full, final victory ot the
German Arms and those of our allies.
All facts of the last 22 months go to
prove that there Is no doubt ot this.
All Poland and Courland, a country
the site ot two-thirds ot Germany, are
Baltimore. July lO. Deutscn- captain Paul Koenig, oerman com- glnce twelve month8 under peaoeful
land," giant cargo-laden euper u ooai, manner, was on oecK wnen me rule and the entlre untry has been
euded her daredevil Journey rrom strange crart dropped ancnor on Quar-
flermanv here early thla morning, 'antine. He bore the air of a man
, Baltimore, July 10. Out of the depths, CnptaJa Paul Koenlg brought
here today the word of month story of Uie flrvt auccesaful crossing of the
Atlantic by m commercial submarine, the gUnt super-submersible Deutsche
land, which, he says, is to be followed here by others.
ga piemen ting a written statement, the captain this afternoon told how
hia reaeel had lain at the bottom of the Engliah channel one whole Bight;
how he and his crew played the gramophone beneath the waves; how they
bad lived on champagne and the beet of foods; how they had openly sailed
8,800 mil, submerging only a few time for a few hoars and doing only
ninety miles under the surface during the entire trip.
Hia written statement announced that the Bremen, a slater ship, will
follow the Deutechlaad. ft declared Germany now foresees the coUapse of
the Brltlah starvation blockade.
The gate will not be shut again," the captain's statement said.
MWe went down one or two times In the North sen for a few boors," aekl
Koenlg, in relating his story. "But we traveled only 90 mllee in all under
the sea.
"We were four days In the English channel, lying on the bottom n whole
night there because the weather was foggy. Nobody aaw us, however, and
we sighted no warships -only emissw and destroyers. . t ,
"It was my first long voyage In a submarine, though I had taken trial
trips before on the Dentachland. There was no fear in the experience and
it seemed no more than taking a trip on the Schleswig or Princess Irene,
the German Lloyd ships I used to command.
"We started from Germany June 23, had bad weather only one day and
traveled a total distance of about 8,880 miles.
"It got rather clone inside during the rough weather, but It waa all right
when the hatches were off. The Deutachland can go down 800 feet and
stay there for four days If necessary, but we did not have to do that. .
"This trip waa a practical demonstration of the ability of a snbaaartne
to pass the British blockade.
"We expect financial auceess from our venture, and in fact the boat was
paid for by this cargo. It can carry 1,000 tons, though this time we had
only 7SO tone, ehleny dyestuffs worth a ufUioa doHars." j
The captain smiled when asked If there would be trouble In getting ont j
of the Patapsco river. ' ,
"No there won't be any difficulty In getting out, If the Gngllah do not
violate the law concerning the three-mile sone. No doubt there will be ten
cruisers off thla port waiting for us, but I could submerge before leaving
the river. Our ability to escape ought to be demonstrated by the fact that
we were not seen at aay time on our voyage here."
The talk turned to life on a submarine.
"Oh, yea," he said, "we had plenty to eat. We could cook everything and
we had tinned meats, tinned fruits and tinned bread tinned everything,
Just like la America."
4,Well, what elae, captain?" he waa asked. -
"Well, we played the gramophone while under water, and we had aome
champagne, too.".
Koenlg said his vessel carried no message from the kaiser to President
Wilson, nor any securities to be deposited. lie would take back, he said,
'almost any kind of a cargo," though he did not want to announce Just
when he would start.
MIITIIE
BY COMMANDER
of mm
1UIIIE Fin DISCHARGES
VWIE FREIGHT AT HIE
Sliding her snout through the drlszly
night up the 'Petapsco river behind a
puffing tug, she put Into quarantine
after Journeying safely through
put under the plough and thousands
ot acres will be contributing this fall
to next winter's supply of food. The
rains' In April and May have brought
a crop In view all over Germany,
Auetrla-JHungary, Bulgaria and Tur
key finer than in a century. ,
"All Serbia, Montenegro and a
great part of Albania are In the same
position. ' Besides 'Belgium, one-
who realised his venture was epochal.
As she moved up the river to quar
antine, puffing a little and spreading
an otl.v smoke behind, the Deutsch-
Cheaaneake bay and docked at me. land, was spoken by newspaper men. i
specially prepared and guarded dock It was a cold reception. Only mono
of the Commercial 'hipping concern, syllables and terse replies were forth-
wh(ch ostensibly sponsored her voy- i coming. There had been no trouble,
age. . , Vy were torn; no ameu buhm. - ;geventh of France Is in German pos-
When customs men and doctors . nr ' there any chaalng Bosslon. Including her coal and mln-
scrambled aboard the submarine, (hey , warships. mj lands, and all In a flourishing
wrote finis to the first chapter of one, Heligoland was named as me point 'tgrlcutlural state. There Is really
j a t..h a Do a t a Jnt iv
of the biggest and most dramatic, oi ueiianu, nu -uu ui not tn4 .lightest anxiety over the
marine gambles of all time. leaving. British attempt of trying to kill by
tt was the flrst-tlme-ln-hlstory trip w" "ran8B ",18" Z ""t'n hundr m1,0tt 0ermw
of the world's largest submarine. " -vv-.7 " "1 na Austrian women ana cnuaren
She came In laden with a cargo for 'i.. " , noncomb.tants. the most devilish
which America has been clsmorlng tor unu' ;"'""r:;V";.Pl-w '
months. Today her backers talked of w u . rtl world's history. , ?
a regular line ot ocean-going cargo ro.MK V1", "Our boat, will carry across the
- Atlantic tne mans ana save' tnem
from British Interruption
submarines between
and America.
the fatherland
(Continued on page S)
We trjlet
SOLDIERS
Biit Le:iS Ibb A3
Hcxico Refee ii
J:b His Arcy ty Ccj
Cite Tc? cf (he hi
, 21 Paso. July l Cutting off the
top ot one ear, VillisUs are branding
Mexicans who refuse to Join them
against the de facto government. Gen
eral Gonsales of Joares informed
state department agents today. Sev
eral hundred men in Chihuahua al
ready have been mutilated la thla
manner, Gonsales staled.
8mall Carranxiata garrison are ra
ported to be Joining the TUllstaa to
escape mutilations. Gonsales stated
that the Villletea were catting off tha
top of the jight ear of men refusing
to Join.therebelarmy
One American employe -of the In -:
ternational Mining company was in
jured in the fight with Carraozlsta
soldiers, who captured the company's
bullion train near Boqulllaa, Mexico,
Saturday, a local official stated. The
four employes on the wagons, includ
ing the driver, who was wounded,
managed to run the Carranxiata lines
and reached Deemera, Texas
Rumors of revolt in the Carran
xiata ranks, rumors ot a Villlsta vie-'
tory near Jlmines and lifting the
embargo on foodstuffs to Mexico were
among today's developments here.
Farmer Villictas, to the number of
6,000, now la the Carransa army, ara
reported to have laid plans to mutiny. '
Information reaching here through.
Mexican arrivals Is that leaders ot the
ex-Vlllistas held n conference with
Villa envoys near Parral and pledged
support to the new rebellion. ,
Proclamations have appeared in.
southern Chihuahua calling former
ViUistas and "all loyal Mexicans" to
Villa's standard. Recruits have been
promised they would be allowed to
loot cities and towns they capture.
A large force ot well equipped Vil-
llstas is again reported moving to
ward OJlnaga and tbe American
towns in the Big Bend district. The
bandits have left La Mula pass, the
gateway through the Sierra Grande
mountains.
Carransa officials say they have re
ceived no word regarding the out
come of Saturday's battle south of
Jlmlnex between 2,000 1 da facto
troops and 1.000 Vllllstas under Cal
Ixto Contreras. Military men believe
this Is an indication that the Car-
Continued on Page 2.
the old friendly relationship with the
United States, going back to the days
ot Washington, when It was Prussia
which was the first to help America
tn Its fight ifor freedom from British
rule, will awake afresh in your beau-.
tlful and powerful country.
"The bouse flag of the Deutsche t
Oxean Rhederel Is the old (Bremen
flag, red and white stripes, with the-
coat of arms ot the town, the key, in.
the corner. This key is the sign that
we have opened the gates which Eng
land tried to shut on us and the
trade of the world. The gates which
we opened with this key will not be
shut again.
"An open door to tbe trade .of the
world and freedom ot the ocesns and
equal rights to all nations on the
oceans will be guaranteed by Ger
many's victory In this struggle for .
our xistence." '
I
1
Si
