Mil ll rfftfPt i& (ill? (1
r
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
A
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
-. .
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON MONDAY, JULY 10, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
OH TRAINS AND NEW
STANDS PTVB OEWTei
E
1
I
i...j
K , '
i-1
CAPTAIN TELLS STORY
3 ,
Passage Was fjventful One, and Demonstrated That
England's Br J ted Mastery of the Seas Is a Myth-Was
Not Sighted . Any of Blockaamg Ships-Fleet of Un
dersea Vessels To Be Built
End-Brought Dye Stuffs,
Baltimore, July 10.---In a formal statement at noon to
day Captain Paul Koenig, commander of the giant sub
marine Deutschland, declared the vessel which arrived
in Baltimore today, will be followed soon by others. The
first of these, he said, will be the "Bremen."
He brought a valuable cargo of dyestuffs he said for
"our American friends."
The statement follows:
"The submarine Deutschland which I have the honor
to command is the first of several marines, built to the
order of the Deutschez Ozean Rhederei G. M. B. H.,
Bremen, which will, be followed by the Bremen shortly.
"The idea of the building of this submarine emanated
from Mr. Alfred Lohman, the president of the Bremen
chamber of commerce. He brought his idea in the fall of
last year, confidentially before a small circle of friends
and the idea was taken up
formed under the name of
M. B. H.' and the Germanionewrft, Kielm was entrusted
with the buildiner of the submarines.
"The board of directors
Lohmann, president of the board; Mr. Philip Heineken,
general manager of the North German Lloyd: Mr. Kom-
merzienrat, P. M. Herrmann,
Bank. Mr. Carl Stapelfeldt, manager of the JNortn Ger
man Lloyd, has taken over the management of the com
pany. , X'. ' ' ' Vw, ..,..'r ,', .. ".
"We have brought a most valuable cargo of dyestuffs
to our American friends, dyestuffs which have been so
much needed for months in America and which the ruler
of the seas has not allowed the great American republic
to import. While England will not allow anybody the
same right on the ocean because she rules the waves we
have bv means of the submarine commenced to break
this rule."
"Great Britain cannot, however, hin- iety over the British, attempt of trying
iler boats such as ours to go and come to kill by starvation a hundred million
os we please. Our trip passage over German and Austrian children and wo
ticrosa the ocean was an uneventful one. men non-combatants, the most devilish
When being approached we went below plan ever tried by any nation in the
the surface and here we are safely in an
American nort readv to return in due
course.
"I am not iu a position to give you
full details rernrdiutr our trip serosa 'the
ocean in view of our enemies. Our boat
has a displaeemen of about 2,000 tons to the days of Washington, when it was
end a speed of more than 10 knots. Prussia which was the first to help
Needless to say we are quite unarmed America in its fight for freedom from
and ouly a penceful merchantman. British rule, will awake afresh in your
"Regarding things in Germany, I beautiful and powerful country,
may mention thnt everybody is con. "The house flag of the Deutsche
vinced of the full imal victory of the Ozean Rhederei is the old Bremen flag.
German arms and those of our allies, red and white stripes, with the coat of
All facts of the 'last 22 months go to arms of the town( the key in the corner,
prove that there is no doubt of this. All This key is the sign that we have open
Poland and Kurland. a country of the cd the gates which Great Britain tried
size of two-thirds of Germany are since to shut on us and the trade of the world.
12 months under peaceful rule and the The gates which we opened with this
entire country nas neen put under the
. . . . :.
JJlUUgU BUII II1UUHUIIUB Ut UCTCS Will VV
foodstuffs. Bains and warm weather
in April and May have brought a crop
in view in Germany, Austrin-Hungnry,
Bulgaria and Turkey, finer thanm a
century.
ureat crops Kipeiung.
"All Serbia. Montenegro and a prent
part of Albania are in the same posi-
tion. Besides Belgium, one-seventh of
France is in German possession nnd all
in a flourishing agricultural state. So
there is, really, not the slightest aux-
mj-
Prof. Alex lansey has lost bis mina
trvin' t' irit on a ear b'hind a woman
with a suit ease. It's impossible t' bel
A gentleman without bein' imposed on. I
and Germany's Isolation Will j
Takes Back Nickel and Copper
at once. A company was
'Deutsche Ozean Rhederei U
is composed of Mr. Alfred
manager of the Deutsche
world.
"Our boats will carry across the At
lantio the mails and save them from
British interruption,
'-We trust the old friendly relation
shin with the United States, going back
. -'.i. i i . t ..a - r .i
Key wm not oe B V' f " 7"r
W IUD ilUUC Ul LUG w ......uv.
tions on the oceans will be guaranteed
by Germany's victory in this struggle
tor our existence
Captain TaiKS Aoout it.
i bj muti u. wmh
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Baltimore, Md., July 10. Out of the
depths. Captain Paul Koenig brouuht
here today the word of mouth story of
the first successful crossing of the At-
lantic by a commercial submarine
the elant super-submersible Deutsetl-
land, which, he says, is to lie loiioweu
here by others.
Supplementing a written statement,
the captain this afternoon told how his
vessel had lain at the bottom of the
English channel one whole night; how
he and his crew played the grnmo
phone beneath the waves; how they had
lived on champagne and the best of
foodfcf how they had openly sailed 3.SO0
miles, submerged only a few times for
a few hours and doing !)0 miles under
the surface during the entire trip.
His written statement aunouueed that
the Bremen, a siBter Bhip, will follow
the Deutschland. It declared Germany
now foresees the collapse of the English
starvation blockade.
"The gate will not be shut again,"
the eaptnin's statement said. -
Only 90 Miles Submerged.
"Wo went down one or two times in
the North aea for a few hours," said
Koenig in relating his story. "But we
traveled only P0 miles in all under the
sea.
"We were four days in the English
I channel, lvine on the bottom a whole
I : . . . .
night there because the weatner was
I foggy. Nobody aaw us. however, and
' we sighted no warsmps oniy cruisers
and destroyers.
i "It was mv first long voyage in a
(Continued em Pf Six.)
Last 24 Hours Develops 103
New Cases, Making Total
to Date 1,083
New York, July 10. Despite the moat
strenuous cleanup measures ever adopt
ed by a big city, NewTfork's infantile
...!..,!. ! 1 ! ,1 f . 1. 4
use nunarea ana turee new cases m
the greater city were shown by official
compilations to have been reported iu
the last 24 hours.
Including today's record, 1,083 chil
dren and young people have been at
tacked by the scourge since June 4,
when the epidemic broke out.
Will Bo Detained.
San Francisco, July JO. When, little
Ruth Hochfelder, four years old,
reaches the California state line in her
flight from the infantile paralysis zone
in Xew York, she will be detained for
observation. This was the announce
ment today of Dr. William C. Hassler,
health officer here.
The little girl is traveling with her
parents. Her home is in Alvarado,
Alameda county. The hock isiana rail
road, through the Western Pacific, noti
fied Dr. Hassler that she was en route.
Child Dies at Chico
Chico. Cal.. July 10. Hither infan
tile paralysis or diptheria caused the
death early today of the six months
old sou of O. J. Moroney, of Burliu
game, according to three physicians
who were called in to attend the child.
They are unable to diagnose the case
with certainty, they said. The child
was taken ill Friday.
By order of the state board or health
the house where the baby died has
been quarantined and samples of the
infaut's saliva have been sent to the
University of California laboratory for
analysis.
1 May Use Federal Hospital
Washington, July 10. The - senate
today- unanimously adopted the Gor
man resolution authorizing the use of
the. hospital and other facilities at F.1
lis island to check the infantile paraly
sis epidemic In New York. The. reso
lution provides that jNcw lorn city
will be required to reimburse the gov
ernment for any loss. .
Spokane Highwayman
Is Back On His Job
Spokane, Wash,, July 10. The liigk-
wavman who last mouth held up a
street car under the eyes of two police
men, is back iu Spokane with the
avowed intention of holding up an auto
mobile exchange this week in spite of
the police. ,
Last night 's victim was Claude Owen'
a' jitney driver. For an hour Owen
drove his machine ubout ' the streets
while the robber sat in the rear seat
and covered him with a revolver. A
lady passenger was not molested.
Hurricane Damage
Placed at $10,000,000
Ibelievo this is nn indication that the
New Oilcans, La., July 10. With the , Carranzistns were repulsed. The possi
opening of communication lines to Mo- hjiitv thnt former bandits of the Car-
bile, Pensacola and other gulf pionts
this nfternoon, estimates of the loss by
the hurricanes last Wednesday nnd
rue iiuru
, Tnursday was estimated at more than
1 O iVlfl 000
The heaviest, loss was at Mobile nnd
Pensacola. Mobile officials have' re-
fused to give an estimate on the loss
there, but persons returning said it
would run more than $3,000,000.
Twentv eight persons perished at
Mobile. '
New Question
Subma rines--BigFreighte r
Puts New Phase on Matter
By J". P. Toder
(United Press staff correspondent)
Washington, July 10. The German
super-submersible- Deutschland is not
a warship. She is not even au armSd
merchantman. She has no guns or ar-,
mament of any kind aboard her. j
This was the report made to the
treasury department shortly before
noon by customs officials who board
ed the submariue at Baltimore. The
state department immediately was in
formed of the ship's status by Sec
retary MeAdoo. The report while pre
liminarv, U considered definitely to
establish the Deutsdiland 's .status.
The official report from Collector
Ryan at Baltimore, said the only sign
of armament aboard were small arms
and rockets for signaling. The cargo
consisted of dyestuffs and metal bal
last. - Diplomatic documents were
brought over by the captain.
Secretary MjcAdoo's information
was given to the state department at
the request of Acting Secretary of
State Polk. This information said in
effect:
CUTS OFF EARS OF
THOSE REFUSING
TO JOIN THE ARMY
Viiiistas Again Active nd
Thousands San To Be Join
ing the Bandits
MASWELLEQUIPPED
AS CARRANZA'S FORCES
Indications Are Bandits Were
Victors In Saturday's
Battle
El Paso, Texas, July 10. Cutting off
the top of one ear, Viiiistas are brand
ing Mexicans who refuse U join them
against the de facto government, Gen
eral Gonzales of Juarez, informed state
department agents today. Several hun
dred men in southern Chihuahua have
already been mutilated in this manner,
Gonzales stated. ' .
Small Carranzista garrisons are re
ported to be joining the Viiiistas to es
cape mutilations. Gonzales stated that
the Viiiistas were cutting off the top
of the right car of men refusing to join
tue rebel army.
One American employe of the Inter
national Alining company was injured
in the fight with Carranzista soldiers
who captured the company's bullion
train near Boquilla, Mexico, Saturday,
a local official stated. The four em
ployes on the wagons, including the
driver, who was wounded, managed to
run the Carranzista lines and reached
Deemera, Texas.
Rumors of revolt In the Carranza
runkh, indications of a-Villista victory
noijth of Jimlnor and lifting of the em
bargo on foodstuffs and fuel to. Mex
ico opened today's Mexican develop
ments here. :
Former Viiiistas to the number of
5,000, now in the Carranza army are re
ported to have laid plans to mutiny.
information reaching here through Mex
ican arrivals is that leaders of the ex
Viiiistas held a conference with Villa
envoys near Parral and pledged sup
port to the now rebellion.
Told They May Loot Cities.
. Proclamations have appeared in
southern Chihuahua calling former Vil
listag and "all loyal Mexicans" to
Villa's standard. Recruits have been
promised they would be allowed to loot
cities and towns they capture.
A larrt force of well equipped Vii
iistas is again reported moving toward
Ojinaga and the American towns in the
Big Bend district, the bandits have left
La.Wula Pass, the gateway through the
Siena Grande mountains.
Carranzista officials in Juarez say
they have received no word regarding
the outcome of Saturday's battle south
of Jiminez between 2,000 do facto gov
eminent troops and 1,000 Viiiistas un
Jder Calixto Contrereas. Military men
,allza column went over to the Viiiistas
was also suggested.
Except for artillery the Viiiistas ac
tive in southern Chihuahua are reported
, to be as well eauipned to fight as the
i troops of the de 'facto government. The
rebels are aid to have many machine
guns which Villa had hidden in the
j mountains before the collapse of his
former rebellion.
I
(Continued on Page Four.)
Arises Over
Is Merchantman Unarmed
"Customs Collector' Ryan nt Balti
more, reports that the Deutschland is
a merchantman and unarmed."
Although the report was termed
"preliminary," it was announced at
'he state department that the neutral
ity board would not even be called In
on the case, "unless the final report
reveals some doubtful technical points'
The British embassy will make no
formal representation! to the state de
partment regarding the Deutschland
until tie United States government has
delivered an opinion as to her status,
it was learned today.
Accordiug to numerous statement
by Secretary of State Lansing, the
case of the big nnder-sea liner will be
studied as an individual case, as have
the cases of the various Italian and
French commerce carrying slii that
have entered American ports since the
war began, with guns aboard.
Under these rulings the merchant
men have been permitted to come and
(Continued ou Pags
Mass Meeting at Armory To
night to Raise Funds for
Those In Need
Tonight the people of SaleHm will
be given an opportunity to give a prac
tical demonstration of their patriotism,
at the mass meeting to be held in the
armory.
Although the call has been made by
the Salem Patriotic league, it is hoped
that all charitable organizations,
churches and lodges will be represented
when the subject of relief for the fam
ilies of several members of Company
M will be presented.
Instend of giving a stated sum for
the bene'fit of these families, cards will
be passed in which all will be given
an opportunity to subscribe a certain
amount each mouth as long as the boys
are at the front. By this arrangement,
the league hopes to secure each month
the amount necessary to relieve any
distress in the city, and at the same
time to have the amounts subscribed
handled in a business like manner.
Justice George H. Burnett will pre
side at the meeting and addresses will
be made by the Rev. Harry E. Marshall
and others interested. The program win
include singing by Mrs. Hallie Parrish
Hinges and Tom Ordemau.
The Cherrians have been Invited to
appear in uniform, although no official
order to this extent has been inaued.
Louis Lachmund, exalted ruler of the
Elks and Eruest Blue, dictators of the
Moose, have both issued calls for the
members of their lodges to attend.
Giren Preliminary '
Hearing Today
Preliminary hearings were given four
men indicted by the - grand . iurv In
Judge Kelly's court today. ;
Louis Reed, charged with stealing an
automobile owned by Felix I snacson re
quested time to arrange for counsel. F.
S. Lamport was appointed and Reed
will plead tomorrow.
B. ('airfield, indicted for swearing
'falsely to an affidavit, is represented
by F. 8. Lamport and will also plead
tomorrow. '
Frank Marshall pleaded not guilty
when arraigned to answer for an alleged
statutory offense, F. A. Turner and W.
C. Winslow are his attorneys. Charles
E. Smith declared himself not guilty of
committing a statutory crime and his
trial was set for July 'M. He is repre
sented by John H. McNary.
Pheasant Juice Company
Can Use More Loganberries
Loganberry crushing is progressing
nt the plant of the Pheasant Fruit
Juice company, corner Trade and High
streets. The newly installed machinery
is running dny and night. Their new
machinery is eating up the fresh logan
berries so rapidly that the management
is now led to believe thnt they can take
caro of all the surplus berries iu Marion
and Polk counties in addition to using
up the fruit from more than 400 acres
on their regular term contracts.
The manufacture of loganberry juice
is certainly a wonderful nddition to Sa
lem's industries. Growers are bringing
berries in automobile trock louds from
points located more than .'10 miles awav
nnd they are getting cish for them,
This looks good for the country where
loganberries cun be grown us nowhere
else in the wide world.
Market Was Sluggish
and Prices Sagged
New York, July 10. The New York
Evening Sun financial review today
said:
The resumption of business on the
New York exchange was attended by
an expansion of buying impluse, a fea
ture of which the professional traders
took advantugo in working for reac
tions later in the session.
In the session seculative sentiment
which was rather nufavornbly disposed
as a result of the continued apathy of
the outside element which was associ
ated with the widespread prediction of
a further contraction in the munitions
business and by some other considera
tions, notably a sharp decline in cop
per abroad and a distinct hardening of
time and call money.
First prices were irregularly charged
and though Heading opened quietly a
pronounced disposition toward heavi
ness developed almost from the outset.
There was no marked pressure against
steel common but the price sagged off
under its own weight and the same was
true to a degree of other leading in
dustrials and standard rails.
Although some of the familiar war
stocks, Baldwin Locomotive, Crucible
Ions to 14 points or more.
Steel and the like, hardened In the lat
ter trading on profit taking purchase
by the bearish elements, the general
list showed little or no Improvement
and the copper stocks were distinctly
heavy. Industrial Alcohol extended its
loss to 14 points or more. .
GREAT ATTACK OF
ALLIES CONTINUES
FORGING
Peronne, the French Objec
tive, Now At the Mercy
of Their Guns
HAVE GAINED FOUR MILES
ALONG TEN MILE FRONT
Russians Unchecked Are Now
Near Great Railway Cen
ter of Kokel
By Henry Wood.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Paris, July 10 French troops pressed
closer to the railway town of Peronne,
the immediate objective of their great
offensive, in furious fighting south of
the Sonime last night, capturing a Ger
man line of trenches In the region of
Barleux, southweBt of Peronne.
At the same time the French broke
out with an attack in the Champagne
region, capturing Herman trenches west
of Butte I.e Mesnil on 500 yard front'
after the three attacks.
The successful attack in the Cham
pagne region, where there has been lit
tle fighting in several weeks, apparent
ly was a diversion to prevent the Her
mans from shifting reiuforcements from
that front to the Homme battlo ground.
; The war office in announcing these
gains today, reported a lull on the
French front north of the Somme dur
ing last night. . . . . . .
- By advancing in the region of Bar
leux, the French last night brought up
their right wing to within less than
two miles of the Somme south of Peron
ne. 'The village of Biacheri) captured
In yesterday's fighting, lies loss than a
mile BoTthwest of Perqnne on the Som
me. .
The French now threaten " in their
next attack on the south bank of the
iSonimo to squeeze the Germans out of
all' their positions west of the river in
the bend of the Somme. , The Germans
already - have withdrawn their heavy
guns to the eaat bank of the river.
Peronne at Mercy of French.
The historic, city of Peronne is now at
the mercy of French guns. French lines
are drawn so close that not only long
range pieces but small field guns are
placed within range of the Feronne rail
way station. From a rise or ground
near Barleux, French forces can look
down upon the town from across the
river and watch the movements of Ger
man troops.
In the fighting near Barleux last
night the French took l50 nnwounded
prisoners. In yesteruny's fighting at
IBinches 300 Germans were captured.
During the first eight days of the
great allied offensive, the French have
advanced on a front of 15 milometers
(about 10 miles) to a depth of from
three to five miles, it was stutcd semi
officially today. The greatest advance
was made along the south bank of the
Somme, where the capture of Biachez
advanced the irenca front nearly six
miles from its former position.
The war office today reported minor
activities in several other places on the
French front. In the Argonne a French
recounoisanve cleaned up a German
trench. North of Verdun the sectors
of Clinttancourt, Flcury and Lausee
were uudor bombardment and strong
German patrols were dispersed.
In the Vosgcs German detachments
unsuccessfully attacked Freuch posi
tions at LaC'happellotte five times dur
ing the night.
As British Tell It.
London, July 10. A British force
which captured the southern end of
Trones woods, north of Hardccourt in
Saturduy afternoon's fighting has ex
tended its position northward, General
Ilnig reported to tho war office this aft
ernoon. For 48 hours heavy fighting has been
going on in the wooiIb. A German coun
ter attack was repulsed with heavy en
emy losses.
British trooups captured several nun-
died more prisoners on the Somme front
in this morning's lighting.
On the British front farther north
the Gormnns bombarded British posi
tions for three hours in the region of
Iloocre. In this region British troops
made three successful raids on German:
front lino trenches.
Altogether, five desperato German
counter attacks were repulsed in the
course of the night 's fighting, General
llaig reported.
British troops captured a small posi
tion near Contulmaison.
The German Version.
Berlin, July 10. British troops have
penetrated the Trones wood and the
French villages of LaMaisouette, Bar
leux and Reeogquerez, it was officially
admitted today.
Hard band to haud fighting is going
on without cessation in the village of
Ovillers, north of the Somme.
"On both sides of the Somme the
(Contlaned oa Page Tares.)
PRESIDENT TALKS
TO GREAT CROWD
AT DETROIT TODAY
Answers Roosevelt's Militan
cy with Call for Prepared- -ness
for Peace
APPLAUSE SHOOK HALL
FORD SENDS MESSAGE
Says: "My Hat Is Of! to tW
Man Who Has Kept This : ;
Country Out of War
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Detroit, Mich., July 10. President '
Wilson today answered Colonel Boose- -velt's
spirit of militancy with a met- '
sage of peace. Speaking to 3,500 per- J
sons who packed Arcadia hall, hundreds .
of whom were delegates to the World ' '
Salesmanship congress -the president '
said that lighting results in hatred .
that ruins opportunities for progress is '
trade and civilization. .
The same people who heard Roose- -
velt's "call to arms" two month agrV
today rocked the hall with cheers for .
peace.
We must respect the sovereignty of
Mexico," the president said at one
time. ,-..
I any this for the benefit of thos
who wish to butt in. Mexico feels ws
do not wish to help her but to possess
her. This is due to the manner in which. .
some have tried to exploit her products.
I will not help these men." -
The president Bounded a call to bust. ;
ness men of the world to respond to the '
new demands of salesmanship.
"Lift your eyes to the horizon of
business," he urged in closing, "and
with the thought that you stand for the. 1 . .
liberty of mankind, sell your goods anal a:j
try to convert the principles to the prin-
ciples of Amerioa." '
. The president was introduced immedi
ately upon his arrival at the halt. Three
thousand people packed the floor and .
boxes.
"These are days of incalculable -things,"
he began. "It Is impossible ,"
for any ono to predict the future ol
business." . .-
Will Play New Prt
"One thing Is sure. Tho United "
States will play a new part Cf inarcased
responsibility. ,1
"Business of this country has been
timid. Not until the last two or three ;
years has she provided herself with the
instrumentalities necessary. . She has .
produced a large number of provincial
thinkers men who did not think Amer
ica was big or strong enough to play sv ,
great part in the business of the world.
"Do you know that in the last few .
years we have become a creditor nation
instead of a debtor. Our business of the ,
future will be to finance the world and .
the men in charge of this must be able .
to handlo it with the proper spirit and
mind.
"Salesmanship must hereafter be
touched with an ultimate enmprehousion.
of business enterprise throughout the
globe. America will have to place her
intelligence ahead of her goods. Sales
manship must take on an international
atmosphere.
"You've got to sell what other peo
ple want. Your raw materials must be
tho raw materials othor countries want ,
and your manufactured goods the
same.
Must Meet Conditions.
"If we can once get what some gen
tlemen are so loathe to give us a mer
chant marine the troublo of some men
is that they are slow in their minds
then we cau adjust our goods to the de
sires of thoso to whom wo deliver them, i
"Tho only way in which you can be t
sure you will bo accepted is to be sure .
you have something worth taking. You ,
must adapt yourself to the conditions. ,(
"The long way to get together is to
fight. Some men sny they want to help .
Mexico. They want to overwhelm her
with force. That is the long way a
well as the wrong way.
"By this you establish hatred. Then
when you try to go in as friends and
helpmates, you find the doors barred a
if with steel. Mexico feels that we do
not wish to help her but to possess her. '
(Continued on Page Seven.)
THE WEATHER
Oregon: To
night and Tues
day fair; easter
ly winds.
