VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1916.
NUMBER 43.
Rural Credits Bill
Proposed For Hawaii
Modern Melriod Of Farm Loans Dis
cussed Dy Haiku Faimors -'
Marketing Division Endorsed
Tho possibility of obtaining water
from the plantation ditches was the
Biibjeet of some d'scussion at a meet
ing of the Haiku Farmers' Association
held last Saturday night. It was
decided to take the matter up with the
plantation heads.
Strong expressions of confidence in
the territorial marketing division were
made, but the system of handling
produce and of making returns was
criticized. It was the sense of of the
meeting that the Association should
lend its strongest support in opposing
any move towards abolishing the div
ision. (
The probability of a bill being in
troduced in . the coming legislature
establishing a system of territorial
farm loans, following somewhat the
new national rural credits law, was
discussed at length. A draft of such
measure met with general approval.
It provides for a revolving fund being
established by the legislature for the
purpose of $100,000, which amount is
to be loaned on first mortgage secur
ity, and these mortgages in turn to be
sold to banking houses, thus providing
further funds for further loans. In
terest to be six percent. The law would
be administered by a board with power
to grant or refuse any loan. Loans
would run from five to forty years.
The bill embodies provisions of a New
Zealand law which is said to have
proved satisfactory after twenty years.
The proposed measures is said to havo
passed the approval of a number of
prominent legislators and ' business
men of the Territory.
$20-Pines Likely
For Next Season
Good Demand For Product At Pre
sentHaiku District Recovering
Fro:n Bad Year Good Winter Crop
There Is every prospect that the
pineapple growers of Hawaii will re
ceive $20 or better per ton for their
first class fruit next year. Manager
Taveres of the Maui Flneapple Com
pany stated yesterday that based on
the present selling price of canned
pines on the coast the proportion to
the grower would be about $19.50 per
ton. As the prices for the farmer,
however, are fixed in May each year
on the basis of the Belling price at
that time, the present price of $16.10
per ton will continue until that time.
The Maui crop of pines promises to
be better for next season than for sev
eral years, as the new plantings made
since the destructive season of 1914
will be then coming Into bearing.
In the Haiku district the winter crop
of pines which is now going to the
canneries is unusually heavy for this
season. The quality of fruit is also
very good. The canneries have had
some trouble in getting sugar
recently, owing to shortage in supply
of refined in the islands, but by buying
in odd lots in various places have
managed to keep running.
COLLEGE CLUB!
ATTENTION!
The supervisors last week re
ceived a complaint from one of
the country school teachers
which read as follows:
"The fence and the oudoor
bouses crente spectaularity
worse to look upon. There is
nothing hygienic about them."
1 1 Rural Free Delivery
Proposed For Haiku
Postofficc Department Would Open
First Service Of Kind In Ishnds
Petition Being Circulated
Date Set For Opening
Of NewCommunity House
The new Community House in Ka
hului will bo formally opened on
Thursday evening of holiday week
December twenty-eighth with a recep
tion given by the local people of Ka
hului and Puunene to the Maul public.
Good music is being provided and
nothing will be left undone in the ef
fort to give the people of Maui a good
time on that evening. The evening's
festivities will be under the auspices
of the ladies' society.
Cement Making To
Be Big Industry
Enterprise Of Kau. Agricultural Com
pany Promises To Make Large
Saving Developed By Maui Man
County Payroll Is
Again Readjusted
Ten Percent Increase Is Differently
Apportioned Low Wage Men Get
Most High Salaries Get None.
Because the supervisors believed
that the straight ten percent advance
in wages and salaries of all county
employes, which was granted several
months ago, was not equitable, the
board at its meeting lat Fsriday made
a readjustment of the schedule. The
new rates which are now in effect do
not swell the payroll budget. Instead
it reduces the pay of the higher sal
aried employes and Increases that of
the lower paid laborers.
The biggest increase la to the com
mon laborers who formerly received
$1.50 per (Jay. These, under the ten
percent raise received $1.65, but under
the latest plan will now get $1.75. In
like manner $1.75 men, who were rais
ed to $1.92I, will now receive $2.00.
Two-dollar men, formerly raised to
$2.20, are now getting $2.25;. while
$2.50, raised to $2.75, still continue to
receive that amount.
Employes on salary receiving the old
basis of $100 or less per month contin
ue to draw their ten percent increase.
But those who ireceived between $100
and $150, now get only a five percent
raise, while from $150 up calls for no
raise at all.
Death Of Kamaaina
Eilert H. Fleper, for twenty-eight
years a prominent resident of central
Maui, died very r.uddenly at nineo'-
clock on Inst Sunday night at his home
in I'aia. He had been nnwell for
several days but his condition was not
bel'eved to be at all serious. Growing
tired of lying in bed, he had arisen and
was in the act of dressing when the
end came.
The funeral took place from the
family residence on Monday afternoon,
internment being in the Wailuku cem
etery. It was conducted under the
auspices of Aloha Lodge No. 3, K. of
P., of which the deceased was a mem
ber for many years. The pall-bearers
were J. T. Pantom, D. H. Case, L.
M. Baldwin, W. A. McKay, It. A. Wads
worth and B. B. Carley.
Mr. Pieper was a native of Elden-
berg, Germany, m where he was born
sixtyone years" ago. He came . to
America when a young man, and in
1888 he came to the Islands as a car
penter on the old Kaluanui plantation
in upper Paia, then In operation, and
under the management of von Greve-
meyer. Several years later he move,d
to Paia nnd opened a general store
which he operated for ten years, when
he sold it and went into the hotel
business, which he managed until the
time of his death.
The deceased was married in 1890
to Mrs. Inez Vincent, who survives
him. He is also survived by one
daughter, Mrs. Agnes Stange, of Hono
lulu. Three step-children are also
living Euos Vincent, of Wailuku;
Joqutn Vincent, of Kula; and Mrs. W.
A. Clark, of Makawao. A slBter of the
deceased, Mrs. Herman G. Suhr, is a
resident of Hooper, Nebraska.
ALLIES NOT LIKELY TO
ACCEPT PEACE PROFFER
The first rural free delivery mail
route in the territory is soon to be
established on Maui, if the people of
the Haiku and Kaupakalua districts
decide that they want it. It is under
stood that the postoflice authorities
have not only offered to establish such
a service, but have suggested it to the
Pauwela residents as a substitute for
their postoillce, which was abolished
after the rostmaster was arrested for
defalcation of funds of the office.
The Haiku Faimers' Association is
at present busy having the necessary
petition circulated, and as soon as the
required proportion of residents along
the proposed route have signed it,
agreeing'to make use of the service,
and to maintain suitable mail boxes in
front of their homes, the post officials
have promised to act.
Comment Of Press And Leaders Of Entente Powers
Unfavorable National Prohibition May Pass
Next Session Crew Of Wrecked Submarine
Rescued
Visitor From Alaska
Finds Friend Here
Had Been Neighbors In Klondike 12
Years Ago Neither Knew Other
Was In Hawaii
TRAGEDY ON KAUAI
Doi, a Japanese journeyman plumb
er and jack of all trades, shot and
possibly fatally injured his wife, and
then fired five bullets into bis own
body. He will die. The couple had
quarreled.
Parodies Good For
Islands Says Aiken
Maui Promotionist Back From Four
Month Trip Saw World Series And
Attended A Big Luncheon
One of the exhibits at the Maui
County Fair which was a surprise to
no only visitors from the other Is
lands but to most Maul people as well,
was that of the Portland cement manu
factured here on the Island by the
Maui Agricultural Company. That
this product is of a superior quality,
testing higher than required in United
States government work, and that it
promises soon to replace in consider
able part imported cements, is cause
for still greater surprise. Such, how
ever is the case. Moreover, at the
present time a plant is being erected
on the beach at Paia which when
completed will have a capacity of at
least one hundred barrels per day.This
plant will be in operation probably
in April or May.
Primarily the product will be' used
to supercede the large amounts of
imported cement now used on the
Alexander & Baldwin plantations on
this island, particularly in connection
with the concrete lining of the many
jriiles of irrigation ditches and tunnels.
The surplus is to be marketed, and it
Is expected that it will be possible to
sell it at from twenty five to fifty per
cent lower price than other cements of
like grade.
The cement is made from beach
sand lime and crushed lava rock. The
process has been worked out by J. P.
Foster, chemist of the Maui Agricul
tural Company, through a series of ex.
Derimenta covering a period of several
years. It was Mr. Foster, also, who
first demonstrated the practicability
of making lime from the coral sand of
the sea beach, which product has been
iu use for clarifying purpose in the
Maui mills for a number of years.
Kona Storm Brings
Heavy Rains To Maui
The several days of Kona weather
the later part of last week culminated
on Saturday and Sunday in an unusu
allyheavy downpour of rain in most
parts of Maui. Iao stream was high
and In recollection of last January's
flood horror when thirteen lives were
lost, there was some uneasiness in the
Valley. The water, however, began to
subside before it was out of banks ex
cept in a few points.
At Keanae a rainfall of 5.85 inches
fell within twenty-four hours; while
Lahaina and the leeward side of west
Maui got a good drenching. The rain
was timely and the plantations bene
fited much.
Water Rates Reduced
In Wailuku And Lahaina
"MIXED" BATHING OPPOSED
.BY JAPANESE CONSUL-GENERAL
Japanese Cunsul-Oeneral Morol sent
a letter to the Hawaiian Planters' As
sociation before its recent meeting
and called attention to the necessity
of improvement of the laborers' "mix
ed bath" and comfort stations in the
plantations he visited to investigate
the condition of the laborers. He
believes that the planters will give
attention to his letter as he deems the
matters necessary from a moral
standpoint.
Because of economies effected dur
ing the past year, combined with in
creased number of consumers, and a
more careful collections, ihe super
visors have ordered a reduction of
water rates for both the Lahaina and
the Wailuku systems from six cents
per thousand gallons to four cents.
This reduction applies only to consum
ers using water by meter. The Wai
luku waterworks alone is reported to
show gains In collections of thirty per
cent at no additional cost.
EOY BADLY BITTEN BY
VICIOUS DOG
Tsune Kono, a Japanese delivery
boy employed by the Pioneer Store,
Wailuku, was painfully injured while
passing through a lane off Vineyard
street, last Friday, by being attacked
by a vicious dog. The boy was deliv-
ering a package at the time, and the
dog approached him from behind in
flicting an ugly gash In his right leg.
The ownership of the dog is in dispute.
It has not been killed. The boy s
wound was dressed by Dr. Osmer.
After four months on the mainland,
W. O. Aiken, Maui member of the pro
motion committee, accompanied by
Mrs. Aiken, returned home by the Lur
line on Wednesday.
The Aikens enjoyed an extended
mainland trip and naturally he was
watching promotion work and what
advertising Hawaii Is getting. He
does not agree with some other re
turned Honoluluans relative to bad ef
fects of parodies on Hawaiian music
and dances, but says It is all adver
tising and is recognized as parody
stuff and so is publicity and beneficial.
The Aikens took their car with
them when they left. They spent six
weeks in California and motored 2900
miles. Leaving the car in Los Ange
les they went by train to the Grand
Canyon of Arizona, Chicago, Cleve
land. Niagara Falls, Albany, Boston,
New York, Atlantic City, Philadelphia,
Washington, Knoxville, New Orleans,
Houston, San Antonio, El Paso and
back to the Pacific coast.
Aiken says that one of the most in
teresting and Inspiring features of
his trip was a luncheon of the Mer
chants' Association of New York,
where 1200 of the prominent business,
men of the nation's metropolis were
present. But above this he ranks the
second game of the world series which
he attended and narrowly escaped
heart disease.
He was in San Diego on Hawaii
Day and says it was well carried out
and highly successful.
Aiken comments especially favor
able on the live Ad Clubs he found in
Los Angeles and in Cleveland, at both
of which places he attended meetings.
Star-Bulletins.
SCHOOL DEPARTMENT EMPLOYES
GET SALARY RAISES
At the meeting of the board of
school commissioners in Honolulu,
this week, the members voted to in
crease the salary of Inspector-General
George S. Raymond from $2,400 per
year to $2,700. A new salary of $2U0
per month was authorized for a surv
eyor-general who will have charge of
statistics and tabulation of work of tho
department.
The salary of Miss Eleanor Holt
was raised for $115 to $123 per month,
and Henry Williams, clerk, also was
was raised from $110 to $125.
Mrs Andrew Halset, of Fairbanks,
Alaska, who is the guest of Mr. and
Mrs. E. S. Smith, of Haiku, was pleas
antly surprised a few days after her
arrival to learn of the presence in
Maul of another friend, who had been
her neighbor in the Klondike" during
the stirring gold rush twelve years
ago. This was Mrs. M. L. Simpson, a
teacher in the Spreckelsville school,
who was equally surprised at the un
expected reunion. Mrs. Halset spent
several days as Mrs. Simpson's guest
in Wailuku.
The two friends first met during the
gold boom In the Klondike of 1904-5.
Mrs. Simpson had accompanied her
husband to the land of gold, and Mrs.
Halset, who had braved the northland
alone, by chance happened to be liv
ing next door to the Simpson cottage.
Mrs. Halset lost track of her friend
after Mrs. Simpson left Alaska, and
did not know that she was in Hawaii
until fate once more threw them to
gether. Mrs. Halset is much in love with the
Islands. She plans to visit Haleakala
and other points of interest on Maui
before leaving for Hawaii to see Kil
auea. She plans to leave in a few
weeks for her home, which she will
reach by dog teams over the ice at
this season.
Kilauea Breaks Shaft
Schedules Are Upset
The Inter-Island steamer Kilauea,
which has been substituting- on the
Mauna -Kea's run while the latter is
on the dry-dock in Honolulu, cracked
her shaft on Monday night, just be
fore reaching Lahai.na. She made port
at Lahaina all right, and on Tuesday
morning was taken In tow by the
Claudine and towed to Honolulu,
reaching there about 7:30 p. m.
The Claudine, which was rushed to
the Kilauea's aid, did not have time
to unload her freight at Kahului, and
she also cut out her regular Hana
trip. She returned on Wednesday,
however, returning to Honolulu on
Thursday afternoon, one day late. The
Kinau has taken the Kilauea's place
for the present. It is reported that
the injured vessel may be off the run
for a number of weeks before repairs
can be made.
Supervisors Ask For
Territorial Road Money
The committee on legislation of the
board of supervisors, consisting of D.
T. Fleming, K. A. Drunituond, and
Chairman Kalama, will probably make
recommendation to the department of
public works this afternoon or tomor
row, that steps be taken by the de
partment to secure territorial funds
from the next legislature for the com
pletion of the Kailua-Nahiku road, re
construct the road up lao Valley, and
construct a steamer wharf and seawall
at Lahaina.
PLEASANT MEETING OF
KAHULUI AID SOCIETY
The Ladies Aid Society of tbe Ka
hului Union Church met on Tuesday
afternoon with Mrs. J. J. Walsh. There
were about thirty ladies present.
Four new members were received
making a total membership in this
Aid of thirty. The afternoon was spent
in making bags and stockings to hold
the Christmas candies and nuts for
the children of the Sunday-school.
Plans werq alt;o made for iho opening
of the new Community House, aud tho
various committees appointed.
WASHIXGTOX, December 15 Representative Young lias
presented a resolution for government to construct a bakery at the
capital to learn actual expense in bread making.
Administration loaders doubt whether prohibition measure will be
leached in time to be acted upon this session, but assert that it will be
a dominant issue in the sixty-fifth Congress.
Representative Moore has a bill providing for ex-presidents to have
seats in House without vote, but with right to address house. The bill
carries a salary of $23,000 per year.
COPENHAGEN, December 15 Danish plebiscite favors selling
the Danish West Indies by vote of 283,000 to 157,000.
EUREKA, December 15 Submarine H-3 was abondoned after
twelve hours vvork in rough sea. Submarine is a total loss. Both of
f cers and crew battered and bruised and one lost three fingers. Rescue
w Unesseir by big crowd. Clorine gas added to peril of rescuers.
TOKIO, December 15 Foreign office is stated not to take
German peace proposal seriously. Belief that it was not made in good
taith is opinion. Also believed that Entente allies will press to ultimate
victor'.
NEW YORK, December 15 Marine war risk insurance jumped
fifteen percent to ports in Mediterranean. Ships to trans-Atlantic ports
also advanced ten percent.
SAX FRAXCISCO, December 15 Dynamiter Smith stands pat
in his evidence against Teuton conspirators under grilling cross-cxa-minaliuii.
He vigorously denied he was offered $20,000 by British con
sular agent for his testimony.
PETROGRAD, December 15 Foreign office stated peace propos
al was made solely to encourage German people and to put responsibil
ity of continuation of the war upon the Entente powers. Firm determ
ination of Allies is to carry war to final triumph.
HALIFAX, December 15 Canadian destroyer Grilse reached
ShelLurne safely, but i nbadly battered condition from gale. A rumbcr
of her crew were seriously injured.
HOXOLULU, December 1-4 Marques Maeda, here, as Japanese
attache west front, says there will be no peace until the Allies thorough
ly beat Germany.
Immigration officers arrest three Japanese vice women outside of
Iwilei and plan to deport them.
General Strong has a letter advising that foreign service rule may
be restored.
Keuk the Korean murderer, convicted of first degree murder.
LOXDOX, December 14 Lord Cecil said blockade of Greece
does not imply a state of war.
Bonar Law announces that the daily average of British war ex
penditure is 5,710,000. He said will not receive proposal of peace and
that the Entente powers will require adequate reparation for past and
adequate reparation for future.
WASI1IXGTOX, December 1-1 Entente power embassies reflect
view that proposal for peace will be not rejected without an examina
tion but Allies' reply probably calls for a statement of proposed terms.
EUREKA, Cal., December 14 Submarine II-3 went ashore near
bay entrance in a dense fog, heeling over. She lies between one hundr
ed and two hundred yards from beach. Hatches appear to be battered
clown and it is believed that crew is using submerging equipment air
lank as air supply. Fog. is cloaking rescuers who are endeavoring desp
erately to reach Lt. Bogush and Lt. Zenke and the twenty men aboard
the vessel.
SAX FRAXCISCO, December 14 Charles S. Dole, of Boston,
sails by Wilhelmina to inaugurate a peace movement in Hawaii. He is
the father of James D. Dole, of Honolulu.
HONOLULU, December 14 Tax commissioners will recommend
to legislature a penalty of ten percent gross upon property owners fail
ing to render statement.
WASHIXGTOX, December 14 Proposal of Teutons received by
Secretary Lansing and will be foreward to entente soon.
House agreed upon recess December 22 to January 2.
Prospect prohibition wiil be a live issue after the holidays. House
committee has favorably reported a measure providing for a constitu
tional amendment to enforce national prohibition.
Senate passed immigration bill containing literacy test by vote of
64 to 7.
WIRELESS MARKET QUOTATIONS
SESSION 10:30 A. M. December 15, 1916.
Sugar Price at N. Y. 96 degrees
twa Plantation Company
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co
Mcllrydo Sugar Company
Oahu Suar Company
Olaa Sugar Company
Tioneer Mill Company
Waialua Agricultural Company
Honolulu Hrewiug & Malting Company
Mineral Products Company
Hor.olu'u Consolidated Oil Company
L'ngils Copper Company
Mountain King Mine
Hawaiian Sugar Company
Onomea Sugar Company
Hawaiian Pineapple Company
Oahu Railway & Land Company
Mutual Telephone Company
Hilo Railway (7 per cent Pfd.)
llilo Railway (Common)
San Carlos j
Houokaa
!'!tana liingham .'
Entiles Xew Basis Today.
Kaluiku 50 Cent Extra.
Oahu R. R. & Land Co. 60 Cent F.xtra.
5.27
34.00
'48.00
10. V
29.00 .
U.Ji
39. )i
32.00
M.J
1.20
3.93
"4.05
50.00
42.00
54.j;
41.00
