... - . . ' " " * ' ' ' - ' . " - v \ --* .
' ** ^ V. r
Partly cloudy colder tonight. To- A .^k. A "'A. a FtOtn Pf If fo //OWWS j
1^ fll^f W% l/II SKT (ffi #Ae //oar"
grees: moderate to fresh shifting winds. H JhI. * H H H H H H H H H A H jB^Lm
Temperature for twenty-four ^B il H Wr ~ ^B V H WT H H H H H H H ?\ H H CSSSL >
fei?&1HSM.i: -aJoi,?',n' |^/ W'# ''Vi ?
" f . I __ r V Sntn Jkl Clrealatloa. Moatfc ( Sirrabtr,
CLOSING KBW YORK STOCKS PACK 23. ?? ISIS. Dally Ar.piff. DJITi SaaAay. HH1
. ' ?y- s
No. 29.533. WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1916 -TWENTY-EIGHT PAG'iSS. ONE CENT.
GEN. SCOHIO LEAD
INAUGURAL PARADE
Chief of Staff Accepts Grand
Marshalship Offered by
, Chairman Harper.
I
PLANNING COURT OF HONOR
r - lb
ft V
Mj^V -.;:
CHARLES A. DOUGLAS,
Chairman of Rerrptlon Committee.
Robert X. Harper, inaugural chairman.
visited Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott,
chief of staff of the United States
Army, in the War Department today
and formally tendered to him the grand
marshalship of the inaugural parade
March 5. Gen. Scott accepted the honor.
subject to the approval of Secretary
of War Baker. Gen. Scott will appoint
his aids in a few days.
Charles A. Douglas today accepted the
office of chairman of the reception committee.
This office carries with it much
important work, as it is in charge of
the social courtesies extended to officials
and social, civic and financial
icaucrn.
It was anounced today by Chairman
Harper that the court of honor from
I5th to 17th street, including the reviewing
stand in front of the White
House, where President Wilson and his
official escort will stand during the
oarade. and the observation stand for
special guests, on Lafayette Park, will
be- elaborately arranged and lavishly
riedfcrated.*^ It is,-the intention of Mr.
Ilgrper and his 'advisory council to
make this the very , center of attrac-.
tiveness. and to this #nd a special committee
is being Movided. The chairman
of'this comi^ttfhe is to be James
S Easby-Smith. who lis a district representative
on the democratic central
committee.
Suggestions Ace Sought.
All of the best tak3|t for inaugural !
decoration who have originai ideas regarding
the beautifieation of the court
of honor will be invited to send in
suggestions, and this committee, Mr.
Harper promises, will be most carefully
selected from artists in this line of j
work. ,
Tnaiicriiral hparfniiarfprc will Vip p?. I
tablished in the New Willard Hotel I
Monday, when the Gridiron room will j
be used for executive offices. Chair-!
man Harper will have a private wire j
direct from his office in the District Na- j
tional Bank to his desk in the inau- j
gural headquarters.
The part that women should play in ;
the inaugural arrangements and in the
inaugural ceremonies, which would es- i
tablish a precedent, is being carefully j
considered. It is probable that at least j
one w oman will be appointed to a com- i
mittee chairmanship, and from reliable j
sources information it is predicted
that Mrs. James Boggs. formerly president
of the Woman's Wilson Union, will |
be thus honored. If so. she will probably,
be allowed to name women as)
vice chairmen. A committee of women i
seeking to arrange for a historical
pageant as a part of the parade has j
been asked by Mr. Harper to submit
jts suggestions in writing.
Suffrage and anti-suffrage advocates j
are also trying to arrange for particl- ;
.nation iu The inaugural procession. No j
definite action has yet been taken in 1
the matter.
Work Begins in Earnest Monday.
By the first of the week Chairman
Harper expects to have all his committees
announced and the entire organization
for inaugural ceremonies
hard at work.
That there is little doubt that a large
guarantee fund for the inaugural expanses
will be underwritten by business
men and bankers of Washington was the
assurance given today by Mr. Harper.
While the finance committee has not yet
been organized, both Mr. Harper and
Chairman Arthur Deter have had volun *
tary promises made to them of large subS<
riot ion* and flu.i- ?
J I??cu C??TI V aesura
nee that whatever funds are necesxary
will be promptly subscribed.
Prospects of an inaugural reception to
replace th?- time-honored inaugural ball
in the event that J'resident Wilson should
deeide that he cannot sanction the inaugural
ball seem bright, according to
prominent persons in ?lose touch with
the situation. fhairmari Harper at ill
continues to refuse to discuss this matter
until lie has had a conference at the
White House with the President, which
he is ho|*eful can be arranged for tomor- >
row.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate:
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on prohibition !
bill for District of Columbia.
Adopted resolution by Senator
Kenyon to direct investigation I
into government use of print I
paper, \\ rth view to instituting |
economies.
Military affairs committee ay- -j
pointed subcommittee to hold ;
hearings on universal military
training.
Met at noon.
Resumed consideration of the
legislative appropriation bill.
NEW RULES AIMED
AT CAR SHORTAGE
Higher Demurrage Charges j
Are Intended to Expedite
Unloading of Freight.
t
| PROVIDE A HIGHER RENTAL J
Drastic regulations adopted by the
railroads went into effect today, witn j s
the approval of the interstate com- l
merce commission, as emergency meas- j (
ures to relieve the shortage of freight r
cars which for months has been a brake j *
on the country's commerce and affected ! r
the cost of living. j i
The remedy is the railroads' own. j :
proposed by the car service commission j of
the American Railroad Association ir
and formally approved by the federal i
commission. The first regulation pro- f
vides that a consignee may have the ^
actual two days to unload a car and 1
that thereafter demurrage shall be ]
charged at the rate of $1 for the first a
day, $2 for the second, 53 for the third c
and 55 for the fourth and each succeed- i
ing day. 3
Cheap Storage in Cars. j
Heretofore the charge has been uni- 1
formly $1 a day, and many consignees, ^
notably automobile concerns and coal i
dealers, are declared to have been glad a
to permit shipments to stand for long r
periods because the penalty was so t
small that it compared favorably with t.
warehouse charges.
Another order increases the daily (
rental paid by railroads to one another t
! for cars from 45 to 75 cents per car, or i
about 70 per cent. Some eastern roads g
are said to have from 5,000 to 10,000 t
foreign cars of a single type.
Foreign cars on congested roads are
said to have come almost wholly from ?
southern and western roads. Reports k
to the interstate commerce commission 1
show that they glut the railroad yards T
and sidings of most eastern lines and ?
many in the middle west. The trend of j)
traffic, because of the European de- *
mand ?for American goods, has been f
overwhelmingly toward eastern sea- *
ports.
Caused Rise in Coal. j
The rise in the price of coal is at- ^
tributed almost wholly to the car v
1 Kir fha allAo-Arl o/>?iv!.
[ ties of speculators. While the east was f
i paying panic prices for coal the mines n
' of the middle west, and, to less degree,
! of the anthracite section, were work- s
ing with reduced forces or on part a
time, in many instances, because there s
was not a supply of cars to handle the t
output. t:
An order for the return of coal cars b
to their owners, loaded or empty, was c
issued several weeks ago by the car c
service commission to meet this condition.
p
In respect Jto foodstuffs, the same
uation is said to, have applied, although "
it has' been less acute. Recent orders *
of the commission, which provide that
receiving road#* shall return fcpx cars
and refrigerating cars without delay- to
the owning lines, are said to bd show- ?,
ing effect now.
Belief in Middle West. j
u
In railroads yards of the middle \ ?st e
the relief of congestion, under t^ se h
and related orders, is said to have Be* p *
I marked. Thus at Detroit, within^ k ! e
month the number of loaded cars >Jn j ^
the railroad yards awaiting unloading j p
is said to have fallen from 25.000 to 16,- \ h
000. Further consideration of the i a
problems presented by the shortage 61' 1
i cars is the subject of a conference hei^e j n
today of officials of eastern roads. A ! ^
i meeting of some of the chief shippeni ?
i of the country will be held here nedi J
week. jg
FRENCH PROHIBITION ];
CREATES CONSTERNATION >,
Liquor Trade, Greatly Concerned, 1
Protests Government's Decision. ;
o
Foes of Alcohol Defend Course. >rr
!-s
s t
' r
By tlif AnnofiatPfl Press. , | y
PARIS, December IS.?The decision | v
of the government to prohibit the con- in
sumption during the remainder of the j h
| war of alcoholic beverages, with the ;
exception of wines and beer, has caused i ?
| consternation in the liquor trade, al- j j,
j though it is but the logical culmination j s
j of a series of restrictive measures.^
j which have been taken since the out- I
j break of hostilities, such as the sup- j h
\ pression of absinthe in March, 1915; th^ ; rI
doubling of the tax on spirits last June j*
i and the granting to pi*fvate individuals j>j
of the privilege of distilling spirits jc
| from tiie produce of theic own -lands. { \
M. Grizard, president of the Saloon-i**
i keepers' Federation, and M. Delrose, J
i president of the Provision Dealers* As- ]
! social ion, declare the new measure will e
i bring ruin to 380,000 saloonkeepers now '?
I mobilized and fighting for their coun- c
\ try, and that it will dry up one of the j i
j sources of national wealth. i3
i On the other side, it is pointed out j .H
| that, aside from consideration of the ; 1
health of trie people, alcohol is needed | r
,! urgently in the manufacture of muni- i
j tions. for which purpose increasing j
quantities are being imported. The1
; amount expended for this purpose in ; *
the present year is about 130,000,000 j *
francs, compared with 30,000,000 francs f
J last year. j r
! M. Riemain, secretary of the Anti- c
! Alcohol League. says the prohibition , *
j measure will not injure the saloonkeep- . 1
j ers, but on the other hand will benefit 1
| them, as they would get small profit j f
with the doublet] taxes on spirits, while |l
I the sale of wine, beer, cider, tea and j
| coffee will yield handsome returns. The
: distillers will lose nothing, M. Kiemain '
I contends, as their whole output will be
taken for industrial purposes. rj
ALLIES IN C0NIEB.ENCE. J
. "/ j
! Technical Gathering in Paris, Minis
ter Cleaentel Presiding.
PAR18*.December 15.?A technical con- ference
of the allied governments opened
here yesterday. Ktienne Olementel,
French minister of agriculture, presided.
The sittings will last three or four days.
The French Naval League petitioned Ad!
miral Lacaze, minister',of marine, to give
the masters of all armed French merchant
ships commissions as Lieutenants in
the navy. The petitioti is based on the
fact that commanders of German submarines
have intimated to captains of
French liners that commanders of
a**r-ed nierchanbe made pris
FOURTEEN CHANCES
TO AID THE NEEDY
Associated Charities Gives
People of Washington Annual
Opportunity.
&5,794 SOUGHT THIS YEAR
The Associated Charities for the sixth
leason today presents to the givers of
fVrashing:tbn its "Fourteen Christmas
)pportunities." These "Opportunities"
epresent real people for whom the
society is trying to provide real homes,
rhere are seventy-three different people
o be taken wire of. Fifteen of these
ire grown ups and fifty-eight children.
V few of the children are just beginling
to earn a little and each preparng
to take their father's place. These
'amilies are for the most part those of
vidows or wives forsaken by their hus)ands
who cannot be found and compelled
to do their part. The total
unount needed to bring Christmas
iheer to these fourteen groups and to
issure a home for them for the next
ear is $5,794. The amount asked for
his year is increased by the two facts,
he size of the families, but especially
>y the increased cost of living. In
riew of the high prices the sum seems
eally a small one when it is divided up
imong the seventy-three people. It
-epresents a little over $75 for the year
o each person or about $1.50 a week
ha* is asked.
Contributions sent to the Associated
rharities, 923 H street northwest, will
>e acknowledged to the giver where
he name and address is furnished. The
!tar will also receive gifts for these
amilies.
Opportunity No. 1?Bringing the ChilIren
Home.?Two years ago when her
tusband died, leaving her without visSle
means of support, Mrs. Y. saw
lothing else to do but give up her four
hildren and go to work. After pulling
lerself together she made a little home
or her two girls and left the boys in
n orphan asylum. The separation of
he boys from their mother was provng
disastrous, now they are back
tome. One girl is working and the
nother is trying to establish herself
n lier old trade. To make this experinent
in home-making a success $12 a
reek, or $624 is needed for thte year.
Opportunity No. 2?Keeping Close to ler
Children.?A bricklayer in the
tiaking, that is what John, aged four
een, the oldest boy in the family, wants I
o be. Thus following in the foot- I
teps of an uncle who has been almost I
, father to him. His own father de
erted about five years ago just before
he birth of his baby brother. At first
he children were placed in asylums,
>ut relatives, friends and the family's
hurch decided that the mother and
hildren ought not to be separated and
he home was re-established. The
tother is more than ordinarily particulr
about her children. Every day fftert
the weather U gofcfl she takes a S
ralk with them after school. TWr
he mother keeps close to them and
nows their joys and sorrows. Five dolirs
a week, or $260 a year, will be reuired
to preserve a home for this famty
of mother and four children.
Opportunity No. 3?A Child's Plen^?
Can't jroti rent just one room and take
is to it and call it home?" pleaded *
ight-year-old Johnnie. The - father
ad brutally treated the mother and
hen deserted. No trace of him has
ince been found. Not knowing: what
lse to do the mother placed her chilren
to board in an orphan asylum and
rent to work. Friends heard the boy's
lea for a home, and now Johnnie and
is brother are with their mother and
re making good progress at school. !
'heir mother works steadily, but caniot
make enough to cover the whole
amily budget. Thirty dollars a month,
<r $360 a year, is needed to answer
ohnnie'e plea.
Opportunity X?. 4?Fighting Alone.?
Alone I must try to make a home for
he children. I do not want to give
hem away," says this brave mother of
wo boys and two girls, the oldest ten .
ears of age. All effort to locate the
eserting husband has failed. "It is
ust as if Sam were dead." the wife said.
\o the mother is trying to keep a home
or her loved ones by taking in sewing,
'he children are doing their best to
elp her. Even the rosy-cheeked boy
f four tidies up his playthings, to help
iother, before starting to kindergarten.
Several people have offered to adopt J
hese attractove children, but the j
iother only hugs them the closer and j
rorks the harder. Seven dollars a j
/eek, or $364 a year, will enable this;
iother to keep on fighting for her j
ome. j
Opportunity X?. .V?A Cheerful Op- j
Imint.?Her husband, long 111 in' the i
lospital, Mrs. Jones, as we will call her.!
s fighting against heavy odds. She is i
till an optimist arid refuses to give up.
he and her oldest daughter do laundry
i-ork and sewing at home, but then
annot make enough to support this
lousehold of five. Thi? chtirob i<a ,
rating. The mother needs an addi- . a
tonal $5 a week, or $2C0 a year, to meet j
xpenses. | c
Opportunity \o, 6?Heavily Ilnndi- ! 8
npix'd. But Very tirnteful.?"Who
vouid have believed that there were,
uch good people in the world?" is what i ^
his widow said when told that she was i
0 have a weekly pension. She is part- j
y blind and has had to undergo sev- ; ?
ral operations, so she Is only able to be j t
1 home maker and not a bread winner. | j
'here are five children in this home, all
>f school age. The oldest tyoy is mak- ! r
ng tine progress in schoql and will I t
oon be able to assume part of his-' ^
nother's burdens. Their little home is 4
1 model of neatness and "good cheer, i j
Pen dollars a week, or $520 a year, is i c
ieeded for this widowed and partly
>lind mother v.ith five children to sup- j r
>ort. j
Opportunity \o. 7?Almost Heady to 3
If the Bread Winner,?It has been a . *
tard struggle for this family?a blind i I
ather and four motherless girls. In six f
nonths more Martha will finish her j
ourse at the Colored Vocational School, j
hen she can be the chief bread winner :
n th" family, meantime she Is doing
he family sewing. The oldest daugh-!*
er. who has developed into an excep- ? t
ional housekeeper, Is the homemaker, i a
ind, in addition, takes in washing. ;
Three dollars a week for six months or j *
178 is needed. ; r
? 1 a
Opportunity \u. 8?Home Vocational ! t
Trainings?Four little girls, the oldest j a
deven. each with her daily task, are J,
>m?i '??* > inv iiousenoia aunes or mend- j
ng. washing dishes, sweeping and do- *
ng errands, while the mother Ls recovsring
from a serious operation. Betides
this, last summer the children had <
(Continued on Fifth Page.) " c
- 1 - w " 1 ? *
Conservation
of Paper
Cvery citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper Is wastep. '
Demand trom every clerk that any 1
unnecessary wrapping; of packages t
be dispensed with. If
you have no further use for today's
newspaper save It for the '
school children's ptayground fund. J
. call Main ?03? and ask for the ]
^"the '
a *
y
MIS CAPTURED
BY GERMAN FORCES!
I
Jeriousttensequences for Rumanian
and Russian Forces
t * .
Appear Possible.
5LAVS ; BURN VILLAGES
Possible -serious consequences rot
>nly for the Rumanians out for the
tuss&ns are implied in today s anloun'bement
from Be.rlin of the capture
>f the Rumanian town of Buzeu.
Military writers have very largely
cm m b fl if tn ho the Piiaun. rfilrr.nniari
mention to make a defensive stand |
long the line of the Buzeu river, rrn- j
ling in a general easterly direction not i
ar from the southern border of Mol- j
lavia. Rumania's northern province. I
rhe town of Buzeu lies just south of
his river, near the center of the line
ictween the Moldavian frontier mounains
and the Danube, and at the. Juneton
of the railroads running from
'loechti to the Danube at Jbraiia and
^alata, northwestward through central j
Moldavian frontier. j
If the taking of Buzeu. as appears.
>reaks this important defensive line
he whole Russo-Rumanian line along
he western Moldavian mountains I
leems endangered by flanking.
Stress has been laid by military coin - j
nentators on the importance of this ine
to the Russians, as it has been ;
ointed to as one necessary to be held j
f the Russian front in the southern :
"arnathians and even in Gaiicia was |
o be preserved. Moreover, it has been i
ndicated. the falling back of the Rus- j
iian front northward in Moldavia be- i
'ond the mouth of the Danube at j
Jalata would open Bessarabia to pos- !
lDle Invasion by the Teutonic armies. !
Russians Burn Villages.
!.v f iio Assoc!* I'fs*.
BERLIN, December 15, by wireless to
layville?The Russians are continuing
heir retreat in Rumania, burning vilages
as they go. today's official an- !
louncement reports. The Rumanian j
own of Buzeu has been captured by:
he Invaders. In the last two days j
.000 more piusoners have been taken. >
Addition"! Bulgarian forces have cross- ;
d the Danube near Futesti, across the
iver from Tchernavoda. The state- ;
nent reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: Russian i
ttacks yesterday on the Transylvania j
ront for the most part failed as on the .
receding days. The enenw s"ceeeded in
raining a footing on one height.
Keep Enemy From Renting.
"Army group of Field Marshal von j
Slacken sen: Burning villages mark j
he way through Great Wallachia
long which thfe Russians retreated.
The allied (Teuton) troops, under the
nost unfavorable weather conditions,
.re rivaling each other on the plain
o prevent the enemy from getting
my further rest on his march. In the
nountains the enemy offered resistance
n advanced positions. These were
>ierced.
"Buzeu has been captured.
"The ninth army reported as a result
>f the operations of yesterday and the
lay before the capture of 4,000 prismers.
"Near Futesti stronger Bulgarian
orces crossed the Danube/'
Cross Danube on. Pontoons.
A. dispatch^ to the Overseas News
tgency from Budapest announces that
the crossings of the Danube made by
'orces of the central powers between
Tartukal and Tchernavoda were mostly
ry means of pontoons. A portion of
.he troops, however* marched over the
!?mous Tchernavoda bridge, which had
Igt been entirely demolished.
The net role um establishments, at
^ampintiflvere little damaged and fell
?
. , " ' . .... ' '<* -
into our hands," adds the clispatch.
"The Rumanian detachments at Sinaia
had been completely surprised by the
course of events and made their es- |
cape to Buzeu over the mpuntain roads.
These troops not only left their baggage
and cannon, but likewise left
their military establishments, for the
most part, intact. Only a few machines
were slightly damaged, so that
all the works will bp in operation in
a short time."
Mmmm |
ATII I IftlTIAT in hPhAnT '
olILL INIAUI, lo KtrUKI
Vessel in Disabled Condition Pound-:
ing on Beach in Heavy
Surf.
I
EUREKA, Cal., December 13.?The !
submarine H-3, in which twenty-five ;
enlisted men and two officers of the j
United States Navy were imprisoned \
for several hours yesterday, while she |
pounded, disabled, in a heavy surf on
the beach near the Eureka harbor entrance,
was still intact early today as
far as could be seen from the shore. |
The sea was smoother during the J
night and hope was expressed that j
with the aid of the coast guard cutter i
Mc^Jullough, which left Sar> Francisco
last night and should arrive here dur- '
ing the day, the stranded diver would
be hauled back into deep water.
Crew Is Transferred.
The crew of the H-3 spent the night j
on the l\ S. S. Cheyenne, the mother j
ship of the H. flotilla, in Eureka harbor, j
while the H-l and the H-2, which wore j
accompanying the H-3 to San Diego j
from Fuget sound, continued uncon- .
voyed to San Francisco.
Werner Sweins, the plucky coart I
guardsman of the Eureka life-saving
station, today became the hero of ihej
rescue. While the navy men were still j
bottled up in the diver a coast guard |
cutter with eight men pulled alongside!
with a lead line'for a breeches buoy
wi>?n thf cutter was dashed awav by i
a giant wave, Sweins leaped aboard the!
diver and made fast the line." 1
Washed overboard. he clasped a'
straggling line and hauled himself to'
safety, only to be forced to repeat his j
hazardous struggle a moment later. {
The* conning tower hatch was opened to!
him when the men inside became aware i
of his presence through his lusty kicks!
and a-Htt.le later Sweins and members ii
of the crew were able to haul the buoy
tackle aboard. ,
Men Face Triple Danger.
The H-3 once before piled up on the
California coast and stuck on a mud
banl: for twenty-four hours on her
trial trip, but never before probably
has a diver crew been subjected to the
triple dangers that Lie'ut. H. R. Bogusch
an,d his men experienced yesterday.
Drowning through the opening of seams!
under the terrible pounding in the surf j
was their first danger. Chlorine gas
from leaking batteries then threatened '
the lives of the crew. i
A mistake of two miles in reckoning
was one solution given here today to
account for the wrecking of the H-.J. !
The submarine lay today stem-on to 1
the waves, tethered to the shore and .
hidden by a fog.
i
The submarine H-3, ashore on Hum-j
boldt bar. C&l., was still intact today,!
and, according to dispatches from its j
mother ship, the tender Cheyenne, will I
be recovered in good condition, provid-j
ing weather conditions continue favor
able.
Admiral Caperton. commander of the
Pacific fleet, will appoint a court of Inquiry
to investigate the circumstances
of the case and fix responsibility for the
accident.
Rented Boom Hot a Home.
ROANOKE, Vs., December 15.?Unmarried
men in Virginia not living
with their parents cannot have shipped
to them the quart of whisky a month
allowed under the new prohibition law.
Prohibition Commissioner Peters so
ruled today on the ground that the law
dogs not recognise a boarding or rooming.
.house, club or lodgeroom as a
"home" Iji .which liouor may be kept
for-private consumption. JL
s
V i - .. V"
1'
V
iiriuriniAiiTnii n
NtW tNVUY lUU.o.
GETS SAFECONOUCT
Entente Powers fletnde to
Grant American Request in
Count Tarnowski Case.
MR. PAGE IS NOTIFIED
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, December 15.?The entente
powers have decided to grant safe
conduct to Count Tarnowski von Tarnow,
recently appointed Austro-Hungarian
ambassador to the United States.
The foreign office made this announcement
today, saying the entente
had decided to grant the safe conduct
in consideration of the representations
made 'by the Americaji government.
The American ambassador, Walter H.
Page, has been notified.
United States Receives No Replies.
The State Department today had received
no reply from either England
or France to the three notes sent by
this government about a safe passage
for Count Tarnowski. The first request
for safe passage, which was made
by Austria-Hungary and merely transmitted
by the United States, was refused
on the ground that the entente
allies could grant r.o favor of any
kind to their enemies. The United J
States then made representations on its |
own account, setting forth that as a
neutral state the United States had an
inalienable right to a diplomatic representative
from Austria.
DUTCH GOVERNMENT STILL
SEES POSSIBILITY OF WAR;
LONDON, December 15.?Premier Cort j
Van Der Linden, addressing the lower j
house of the Dutch parliament vester- i
day, said that the Dutch government '
Btill believes that there is danger of !
Holland being dragged into the war. '
according to a dispatch to Reuter's from !
Tl.e Hague.
The premier was speaking on the !
budget and that the country's munitions
supply had considerably increased
and was daily increasing and that, in
view of the international situation, it
was unavoidable that sufficient military
forces be kept at the immediate disposal
of the government.
PREMIER LLOYD GEORGE
DECLARED MUCH BETTER
LONDON. December 15, 12:53 p.m.?
Premier LloyJ George was much better
this morning. He has every expectation
of being able to go before the
house or commons Tuesday. In the
meantime he will remain indoors.
One Injured on Powahatan Diei.
NORFOLK, Va.. December 15.?One
of the men from the Poawhatan, John
Concisus, a negro deckhand, who was
injured in the collision with the Telena.
Monday night, died from injuries. The
three other injured men probably will
recover.
Author of Noted Sang Dies.
SANTA ROSA. Cal., December 15.?
Joseph T. Miles, author of the song.
"There'll Be a Hot Time In the Old
Town Tonight," died here last night.
Miles, who was a veteran actor, was
known op the stage as ."Joe Hayden."
He was seventy years old.
I < ' ^ ~ " ' V
. - . rCf - / . . 'V ' "v.. ' >.
NO LIMIT ON LIQUOR
FOR TOW USE
Senator Sheppard Withdraws
Amendment He Had Proposed
to & C. Prohibition Bill.
SUBSTITUTE BY MR. SMOOT
Senator Sheppard, in charge of the
District prohibition bill, today withdrew
his amendment which would lim
it the amount of liquor which may be
imported by individuals for personal
use. There remains, therefore, no limitation
upon the quantity which may be i
brought in for personal use in the|
home. His amendment had proposed to !
limit the amount to one quart per,
month of distilled liquor for each indi- ,
vidual. or one gallon of beer or one !
gallon of wine.
In withdrawing the amendment. Senator
Sheppard said there was wide
difference of opinions on this subject
among the friends of the bill, and that
if the saloons could be abolished he
felt that a long step in the right direction
would have been taken.
The debase on the prohibition bill
will be long, if the indications today
are borne out. The woman's suffrage
question has been interjected through
the offering of an amendment by Senator
Kern to the Underwood proposal
for a referendum of the prohibition bill to
the people of the District.
Provisions of Bill Discussed.
The bill was again taken up for consideration
in the Senate, immediately follow- j
ing the conclusion of the morning busi- I
ness, on motion of Senator Sheppard of
Texas, in charge of the bill.
Senator Jones of Washington, a supporter
of the measure, told of the
methods used by liquor sellers to distribute
circulars advertising liquors in
dry states. He asserted that, to evade
the law, circulars are sent to "the occupant"
of premises and not to persons.
He charged that $>y these methods
the liquor sellers use the United
States mails to contravene the laws of
the states.
Senator Jones asked if the Senate
post office committee was considering
the bill to prohibit the use of mails for
such purposes.
Senator Bankhead, chairman of the
post office committee, replied that he
was in favor of enforcing the law in
prohibition states, and that his committee
next Tuesday would take up for
consideration the bill to which Senator
Jones referred.
Senator Smoot Offers Substitute.
Senator Smoot of Utah offered a substitute
for the prohibition bill, which
he declared to be a real prohibition
measure, while the pending bill, he
said, was but a step in the direction of
prohibition.
"My substitute is a pure, unadulterated
prohibition bin.-" . said Senator
Smoot. after the bin had rthUT"to
the Senate.
He said It would prohibit the manufacture
and sale, impoitation or giving
[awav Of alcoholic beve.rages in the DisI
trlct of Columbia, and that it provided
severe penalty for violations o the
law. He added that it would be possible
to import pure alcohol for medicinal.
religious and scientific purposes
alone.
"I do not know ! ow much support my
substitute will rece've," an id SenatoSmoot.
"but I am sure th^t any real
prohibitionist would vote for it."
Mr. Sheppard Opposes.
Senator Morris Rheopard indicated to
a reporter? for The Star however, that
he would oppose the substitution of the
Smoot bill for his measure.
The Senate adopted an amendment offered
by Senator Sheppard throwing
restrictions about the export of alcohoi
manufactured in the District, to make
sure that this alcohol would not be
used for beverage purposes.
Would Broaden Export From District
During consideration of the amendment
relating to the export of alcohol
manufactured in the District, Senator
Underwood charged that the proponents
of the bill want to broaden it so as to
open the field for the exportation of
alcohol from the District.
"That is not so," said Senator Sheppard.
"It is so" reiterated Mr. Underwood.
"T deny it and resent it." said Senator
Sheppard.
Senator Underwood charged that the
Anti-Saloon Dengue wished to broaden
the bill to permit one manufacturer of
alcohol, the Corby Company, to keep up
its business, and that the head of this
company was on me siue 01 prom or*
tion.
"You arc playing favorites" said
Senator Underwood, "because this one
man is on your side.
Senator Kenyon of Iowa asked for
the reconsideration of that section of
the bill relating to ambassadors. lie
said something in the bill should relate
to ambassadors and ministers since
they are governed by international law
and usage. The clause relating to the
diplomats v.as thereupon eliminated
from the bill.
Bill Laid Aside Temporarily.
After the consideartion of the amendments
offered by Senator Sheppard had
been completed, it was decided to lay j
the bill aside temporarily, so that the
bill as amended and the Smoot sub- ]
stitute might be printed for the use of
the senators.
An attempt was made to reach an
agreement by which a vote on the final
passage of the bill would be had at 3 j
o'clock Monday. It appeared that such !
an agreement would be made, when
suddenly Senator Jones of Washington,
objected.
While announcing himself a friend of j
the measure. Senator Jones said that j
he did not think the time had come for j
filing- ?he hour on which to vote on tha i
bill. He pointed out that so far there I
has been no debate on the proposition I
for a referendum of the people of the j
District, which he described as the crux
of the whole matter. He insisted lwo-t I
his objection, and Senator Sheppard
then asked that the bill be temporarily |
iaia aside. jt is expectea mat it win
come up for consideration tomorrow.
Attacks Sheppard Amendment.
During the debate yesterday afternoon
Senator " Underwood of Alabama
attacked the amendment offered by
Senator Sheppard which would limit
the amount of distilled liquor which I
may be imported for personal use to;
one 'q,uart a month, for a family, - r to |
a gallon of beer, or a gallon of wine.
"I would ratiter 'see absolute prohibition
adopted than to have a trick or
trap of this kind placed in the law," he
said. "If you say it is morally wrong
to take a. drinjv. it is just as wrong to
take one drink us to take two. The
proposal of the senator from Texas is
rfditlVcr ash, flesh , nor fowl. In this
(.Continued on Second' Mge.)
. * *
- . .rT&r. _? ... _ . ^ -Si
U. S. HOLDS BACK
OWN PEACE VIEWS
German Willingness to Consid|
er Partial Disarmament Surprises
Diplomats.
I NEUTRALS FOR JOINT STEP
*
President Wilson probably will not
finally determine on any formal step*
in connection with the peace proposals
of the central powers until after David
Lloyd George, the British prime minister,
has spoken In the house of commons
Tuesday.
In the meantime, through the American
diplomatic representatives in the
capitals of the entente powers, the
| American government will keep la
close touch with the situation.
German Attitude Surprising.
An authorized statement at the German
embassy that con side rat ion of at
least partial disarmament would !?
one of the things taken up at the peace
conference attracted the widest attention
among government officials and
diplomats. It was accounted doubly
interesting because Germany had repeatedly
refused such suggestions, cv? 14
to the point, it was said, of threatening
to w.thuraw from tiie second Hague
conference if the subject were pressed
Alore of the neutral European diplomats
have asked their governments to
authorize them to ussu.e 1 r. . .uent
' wilson of s ppoi t in any tuoce dej
signed to bring about c-msidcra ion of
j the offer to discuss pe.?ee. For diplo1
malic reasons they decline to permit
j disclosure of their identity at this time.
it is understood I hat in the can.' of
leach neutral government the course of
action v ill be developed by the respective
cabinets a..d ruleis.
Weight of Neutral Opinion.
Among the neutrals the view was reflected
that the advantages of supp>rting
President Wilson in any action he may
take would be twofold. Neutral dipolniuts
are certain that the weight of the collective
opinions and wishes of many neutrals.
headed by the United States, necessarily
would demand the greatest con* id
eration. Also should the joint action not
bring about consideration of the proiKi-utis
President Wilson would be left to act on
his. own initiative later.
The German embassy today was without
additional advices of any kind lrora
Berlin. Count von BernstortT made no
j appointment to see Secretary 1 .anting.
Comment Is Withheld.
No formal comment was forthcoming
today either from the White House or
the State Department. It is known
to be the view of most of the cabinet
members that the American government
shouid move cautiously and do
nothing to imperil its influence for
peace.
President Wtlson is known to attach
grerft J m porta nee to the possibility of
establishing an association of nations
to maintain peace. He outlined in definite
terms the procedure he would take
in initiating a peace movement in the
course of a speecn delivered here last
May before the League to Enforce
Peace. At that time the President said;
President's Plan for Peace.
"If it should ever be our privilege tosuggest
or initiate the movement for
peace among the nations now at war I
am sure thai the people of the United ;
states would wish their government to , L
move aiong these lines: " ^
"First?Such a settlement with re-? ?
gard to their own immediate interest* ~?J..
a> the belligerents may agiee upon. *"
We have nothing material oi any kind
to ask lor ours?ives, and are- quite
aware that we arc fn no sense o. degree 1
parties to tne pre sen* quarrel, our in- ,
tcrest is only in peace and its tuiure
guarantees.
i oecona?a universal assoc.anon or
I the nations to maintain the inviolate security
of the highways of the seas
for the common and umiindered use .of
j all the nations of the world and* to
I prevent any war begun either contrary
'to treaty covenants or without warn-'
i ing, and fuil submission of the causes
to ihe opinion of the world?a virtual
j guarantee of territorial integrity and.
| political independent:?."
Eights of Small Staters.
I *ln the same speech the President said
j the American people believed fundamentally
that e\erv people have a right to.
I choose the sovereignity under which they. -j
| shall live, and that the small states of "**1*
j the world have a right to enjoy the same
| respect for their sovereignity and for their
j territorial integrity that great and pow|
erful nations expect and insist upon.
! Secret* ly Lansing early today held his
j first personal conference with President
, Wilson since the peace proposals> of the*
central powers were made public. It Was
I said the formal notes from Germany and: "t'
j Austria might go forward before night.,
| and necessarily, in view of the probability
| that the President would take no independent
action until after Lloyd George,
i lias spoken in the house of commons, they
! probably will be accompanied only by
! formal notes of transmittal.
Not Finally Determined.
After bis conference with Pres!dcntr
Wilson, Secretary Lansing said the position
of the American government had not*
been finally determined and that the note
from Turkey had not been received.
There were indications that while ths.
President was still waiting for an expres-i
sion of the attitude of the entente allies
before taking any formal step, he had
made up his mind sufficiently .on his gen- ,
eral policy to discuss it with the cabinet*
Unofficial Translation
of German Offer to Allies
for Peace Negotiations'
An unofficial translation of Germany's'
note to the entente nations proposing
! nAirot istions. made'here from a'
1" ' --=> ?
| copy of the official French text ob'talned
from a diplomatic source, shows
that, while accurate in substance, the4
previously published version had many
of the document's sentences out of their*
proper order.
The translation follows:
"The most terrible war which history
has known has been ravaging a large
part of the world for two years and
a half. This calaipity, which the bonds
of thousands' or years of a common ,.1
civilization have not been able to pre- _ j
vent, is injuring humanity in its most1
precious heritage. it threatens to.
plunge into its ruins the moral and ma- . vi
terial progress which was the pride of 1
Europe at the dawn Of the twentieth ^
century;
Asserts Unconquerable Strength.
"In this struggle Germany and her v.
allies?^Austria-Hungary. Bulgaria and
Turkey?hive given.proof aLXheir an*
I
