'T'
UTBT CABLED SDGAX QUOTATIONS
' ' Ceatg boiler
99 Centrifugals ft. T. per lb, tor to
Prieo, Hawaiian basis 6.39 107.80 .
Last previous quota
tion 6.62 1110.40'
rnr.n BtmicAnJ
H, 1918wRainfsll
1 I'tyfoot 'hours, .00. ,
fret ,mln.,07.mai.
' (
'voti 'ix, no. ;iod
HONOLULU, HAWAII TERRITORYVFIDAY, DECEMBER J 3, 1916. SEMI-WEEKLY.
WHOLE
NUMBER 4592
-"
OF ENTENTE
Washington Officials Compelled
To Admit Unlikelihood of Allies
: Meeting Proffer Made By the
Imperial? German' Chancellor
PRESIDENT WILL REQUEST
CAREFUL CONSIDERATION
Secretary ' Lansing Preparing
Notes Conveying Terms of Ber
lin's Offer To Members of, the
Allied Group of Warring Nations
(Assoelsted Press by rederal Wmua.)
h WT AHINOTON, December U5
! A 1.1 L I. 1 ill. . I . !
W r Aiiivuyi ii ie pussiuie tost, ir
the United State formally re
quest! the careful consideration of the
German peace proposals when the gov
ernment forwards these proposals to
the Entente nations, that the latter
will give them polite attention, It is ad
mitted on all sides here that the Allies
have nut - the faintest intention of
heediaftjuern and opening serious ne
gotiations with th Central Powers
ttOkiai tl lkrlniriflA' ilia Wii in an mnA i
iijr gnu uua' iukio fomr omciai and semi-
L - oOtcial stataments which put the hope
whieh (ho-preside at M officers of the
edmlnistrntioit have been treasuring
tmce tne pronouncement by the tier
insn chancellor last Tuesday, ' beyond
ine Dotinaa or probaDiiuy.
The receipt of the German and Au
trian notes, which are identically word
ed has it is true opened the way fur
the President to voice that hope when
he forwards the suggestion from Ber
lin and Vienna to the ministries at
London, Rome, Paris and Tokio. but
that Is almost all that can be said for
It.
Teuton Diplomat Hop
The view of the German diplomat
here is that thewsy has been opened
for asking for meeting of representa
tives of the belligerents, snd they said
last night that that will be the next
step in all probability. This meeting
would be asked to "discuss the general
terms upon whieh peace could be ar
ranged." One f the German officiula
here declared 'that if the movement
goes that far it will result in an actual
peace conference. The state department
announced last night that the note from
Constantinople is eipected this evening.
No note from Sofia is eipected.
Hecretary Lansing is now preparing
ideatieal notes to the different mem
bers af the Entente, and it is hoped to
forward them immediately.
Lloyd-Georfe ZU
Despatches from London, following
those from Paris, shocked those here
who had looked forward to a npeedy
enfling of the war through the offer of
the chancellor.
Premier Lloyd-George did not apiear
in the house of commons at the Trme
be was expected to make an important
ech on allied policy yesterday, but
Boner I.anr, chancellor of the exche
quer, made a statement Indicating Brit
ish refusal of the supposed German
.terms. The new premier is in bed
with a severe eold.
Mr. Law said that Britaia has not
yet received the Teuton proposals for
peace, and added significantly that the
Knpeut Allies require adequate repara
tion for the past and adequate security
for the future.
Asks Credit Veta
He also ' announced that the daily
average of RngLwi 's war expenditure's
amount to 3,710,000, and asked a vote
of credit for (100,000,000. The actual
expenditure, e said, had exceeded tho
estimate owing to the increase in the
lost of munitiens and the necennity for
additional loana ea behalf of the other
Allies aud the British dominions.
Bouar Uw declared:
"In moving the laat vote of credit.
Premier Asquith said that the Allies
require that there shall be adequate
security for the future. That is still
the policy and still the determination
of Hi Majesty's government."
This statement was greeted with
cheers.
Blockade of Oreeo
Lord Cecil, the new "secretary of
state for the blockade." said that the
blockade which the Allies are carrying
out against Greece does not imply a
state of war existing between Greece
cud the Entente group. He told the
house that there would soon be pre
Hcnted eertsin demands upon Greece
for the purpose of clearing up the sit
uatioo.
rrn);MEN WHOiCONTROL DESTINIES OF GREAT BRITAIN
- I;..- : - - j v1 ' "r x - I -i i LJlfJ
" n 'I v '
(SV
Wants Uncle Sam To
Begin Baking Bread
t Assoc! aud Press by Tsdsrsl Wlrslass.)
WASHINGTON, December 15
Representative Younj; of North Da
kota introduced a rvmilution yenter
day propohinj; thut the x ei mm n:
construct a Hour nnd ImKcry mill in
Washington in order to learn L
actual experience junt v. hat the price
of bread per lonf should lie for tl.i
consumer. Iu i.dtocntiiiK hiK loeiihuie
he declared thut I'ncle Sam ould
then bo able to (five an nctnal de
monstration
bread.
of the cnxt of making
GO
DEPUTIES DECIDE
Whole Country Affected By Meas
ure, Prohibiting Liquor To
the French People
(Associated Press t Tedersl Wireless)
PARIS December 11 The French
parliament tnduy decided upon prohihi
tion of whiskies, brundies anil other
liquora. Premier Hi land declared be
fore the chamlier of deputies:
"Ihia is n truv question which
must be regulated in war times. Its
solution, which involves tho country's
salvation, is in thu suppression of
alcohol." He was greeted with up
plause. Deputy Muverus interjected. " for the
army," and Hrinnd replied, "yes, for
the entire count rv. ' '
PORTUGUESE DISCUSSING
COALITION CABINET PLAN
(AsiocUled Press by Pedersl Wireless)
I'AKIH, December IS Lisbon news
pupers received hen- today declare that
the formation .if coalition cabinet
is again being considered. The present
government has been in existence since
March.
WAR RISKS JUMP
I Associated Prete by rederal Wireless.)
NEW YORK, December I". The ma
line war risk iiisuiiince rates have
.jumped up fifteen per cent for vessels
bound to ports iu the Meditei rauean
Kea. w hile shins s i t ti car -"oes consigned
to trHusntlniitic polls will have to pay
ten per cent ndditio'inl over what tliev
have been churged in the past.
,
FRANCE 10 GO DRY
' a i is am aMammmBsMBiiHEaBinnBsH BBUBKmMMBBBggMmypBmm Wmm-mm, 1 1 s i map -arfMrTsssTlTnt
. t
DANES APPROVE SALE
OF THE WEST INDIES
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless.)
C OPKNIIAGKN, Denmark, December 15 The people of Den
mark, voting at a plebiscite held yesterday, went 'strongly on
record as favoring the sate of the Danish West Tndiesto the United
States, the vote standing 283,000 for to 157,000 against.
When the proposal to eeJJ the islands to the United States for
$25,000,000 came up several months ago, it created much agitation
and was met by igorous'iopposition in some quarters. The opposi
ion to the measure became so outspoken that the legislative body
finally refused to accept 'the responsibility for filial action and re
ferred the matter to the voters of the kingdom. t
The result of the vote yesterday shows that the opposition tn
the sale of the islands is not shared by a majority of the people.
The measure is, as a result of the vote, again up to the legislative
body of the government; The United States senafe has already
ratified the proposed purchase of the islands, and similar action by
the Danish parliament, based upon the result of the plebescite, will
probably follow. '
Prohibition Id Likely To Become
Dominant Issue Before Solans
( Associated Ptiss by rederal Wireless.,
WAHirrNflTON, tI)ecemberi J.V Al
il-ough even the more enthusiastic pro
hibition leaders here do not expect fa
vorable action on the pending national
prohibition measures at this session of
congress, it is generally admitted even
by the opponents of the measures that
tho question Of "wet" or "dry" will
be the leading issue to be brought bo
fore the houses after the Christmas
holidays, which will begin December 22
und last until January 1.
Administration leaders last night ad
mitted that they doubt whether the
bill will reach the senate in time for
any action at the present session, but
I Ley assert that it will be the domi
nant issue In thu coming sixty-fifth
congress.
The measure which is before the
house now wus reported fsvorably upon
Bomb Conspiracy Witness Stands
Firm Under Rain of Questions
(Associated Press by rederal Wireless)
HAN FKANCIHCO, December U Uouis J. Hmith, star witness for tho
government, in the trial of Franz Bopp, German consul general here, and con
sular attaches, on charges of conspiracy in connection with tbe so-called bomb
plots, remained unshaken today in the face of a grilling cross-examination.
Two attempts to discredit timith as a witness failed. He held to every
detail of bis story of how he bad been employed by C. C. Crowley, detective
for the consulate, to dynamite British ships carrying munitions.
Efforts to Introduce reports to prove that Smith wss a deserter from the
Maryland volunteers were unsuccessful.
Wmith vigorously d.wiied charges that he had been offered sif0,0(K) by Hiitisli
consulur agents for his testimony.
S0ht ovoL
'y the judiciary committee yesterday.
It provides for a constitutional amend
meat which would enforce natioual pro
hibition. Tbe proposed suffrage amend
ment was reported without " comment
by the committee.
The fact that William J. Bryan, for
mer secretary of state, has thrown
himself heart and soul into the fight
for national prohibition and has as
serted that he plans to make the Demo
crHtie party a "dry" party by the
next general electron, while at first it
as received with a smile, is now re
garded as being indicative of the trend
of public feeling. Senators sand rep
reseutatives from all over the country
haye brought back with them to con
gress reports of the increasing senti
ment in favor of nation wide prohibi
tion, and tbia is likely to hsve Its effect
in the debating which will follow the
takinir up of the question.
Plans Fine Job For
All Ex-Presidents
(Associated Prats r federal Wireless)
WASHINGTON, December 15
Representative Moore of Pennsyl
vania has n bill providing for giving
all ex presidents of the United
States a seat in the house of repre
sentatives, without a vote, but with
the right to address'the house. The
bill carries with it a salary of
23,0(KI a year. It also provides that
candidacy for any political office
would automatically bar the candi
date his membership in the house.
-
Driving Germans Back According
To Official Admissions Made
By German Staff
(Associated Press by rederal Wireless.)
NEW YOKK, December 15 The
fighting on the battle fronts of Europe
is clouded in the mystery which the
censorship easts over it from time to
time as big events begin to shape
themselves. It was reported yesterday
that the fighting in Kumnnia continued
leavy aud that thu Germans and Aus
trians lire still pressing the Rumanians
and their Russian allies backward.
The invaders claimed to have crossed
the River Jalumitxu hot iu pursuit of
the retreating Rumanians, and that iu
other directions their advance con
tinues unchecked.
The French however launched the
most sensational usaault of the day.
On both sides of the Mcuse river,
north and northeast of Verdun, they
attacked, and reports from Paris say
that 'hey are advancing steadily, hav
ing already taken many prixoners and
much ground, but the details of tbe
fighting have not been allowed to seep
through the censorship in l'nris, sud
He ih ri has had little to say regarding
this struggle beyond declaring that the
attackers have made advances.
North of Monastir, in Serbian Mace
donia the fighting has been resumed and
yesterday the German Bulgarian armies
began a fierce bombardment of the
Serb positions to the south anil east.
So far as reported this has had but
little eflVct us yet,
FRENCH ATTACKING
NORTH OF VERDUN
STRANDED SUBMARINE
MAMS HEROIC BATTLE
FOR LIFE WITH WAVES
11-3 Grounded On Shoals At
Eureka, California. Battles For Hours With Breakers
In Dense Fog Before Rescuers Are Able To; Seed"
a Life Line On Board and Rig Breeches 'Buoy
CREW OF DIVER RESCUED
lAseoclettd Press hr federal Wireless)
El'HEKA, California, December 13 Stranded on a shoal nesr the entrance
of Eureka Bay in a dense fog, the United States submarine H3 was
abandoned by her officers and crew late yesterdsy, when rescuers working
from the shore rigged s breeches buoy after twelve hours of work in a rouuh
sea.
I.ieat. Harry Bogusi-h. commander
last to leave ine snip as it lay crushed in tbe surf, a total loes.
Most of the twenty-two officers and men aboard the diver were severely
bruised and battered when the U-3 crashed onto the shoal early yesterday
morning, One man lost three Angers of his right hand, and practically every
man aboard suffered more or lets serious injuries.
DAY LONO TIGHT WITH BEA
Though the submarine was running awash when it struck the ahoaC it
was only by heroic work on the part of those aboard that the disaster waa aot
marked by loss of life. While rescue parties afloat and ashore made repeated
fruitless efforts in the thick weather to reach the wreaked uaderseas sraft,
omnrfs ana. crew iugn a sieaay oauie
Mater entered the batteries of the
submarine , and released chlorine gas
adding to the danger to those aboard.
The work of rescue, 'after --the
breeches buey bad bees finally rigged,
was witnessed by crowds that had
gathered along the short at the first
news of the wreck. Cheera; greeted
every man as he was safely landed on
the beach after the long ride through
the mist and the angry surf from the
rushed shell of tbe U-3.
McOnllock To Rescue
The United (States coast guard Sal
ter McCulloch steamed from- Han Fren-
cisco last night for this port to aegiriM
tbe.wor of salvaging what is left?
4 he ye-fiiifsyef! ft. j, wea-baffeted
Tne H-3 was on the waf from Bre
merton navy yard, on Puget Hound, to
Mare Island navy yard in Han Fran
cisco bay. She was aeeompsnied by
her .sister submarines, the H I and the
H-2, atid the monitor Cheyenne! actinu
tender to submarines, which was con
voying the three submersibles down the
coast.
It wss just dawn when the H-3 ran
aground on tbe shoal and stuek hard
and fast. Tbe grounding oeeared near
the entrance of tbe bay and about two
hundred yards oft the beach.
Big-nab Bring Assistance
Distress signals sounded from tbe
H-3. The Cheyenne immediately stood
by. The tug Relief was rushed from
the hsrbor. Then the submarine
founded the whistle "All safe."
The life-saving erew from the local
station started work at once. Efforts
were made to shoot a lifeline out over
the diver.
Dense fog engulfed the stranded sub
marine, endangering the rescue craft
as they hovered near the H-3. The
submarine wss heeled over in fairly
deep water. As soon as she struck she
began to settle on her side. The water
abont the shoal was so shallow, how
ever, that the tug and the submarine
tender were unable to come close to
the H .I.
As soon as the submarine ran
aground wireless messages were flashed
fiom the Cheyenne up and down the
coast, and all available rescue forces
and apparatus that could be summoned
were rushed to the scene of the wreck.
The whistles from the submarine
finally ceased, and a rift in the fog dis
closed the diver dangerously keeled
over to one side with the hatches bat
tened down. It waa believed the men
were using the submersion equipment
-land obtaining air supply from the air
tanks. Well within the surf, the sub
marine was being buffeted by the
waves and great seas swept over the
superstructure.
Fog Close Down
In this situation, as the fog again
closed down on the diver, hiding her
from the view of shore and sea rescue
forces, desperste efforts were made to
reach the men aboard.
After hours of anxiety, another
lifting of tbe fog raised hopes of avert
ing a tragedy. Members of the crew
were visible through the fog and the
spray working on the wrecked super
structure of the submarine, battling
aguinst tbe force of the surf dashing
against the nearly capsized craft.
After tbe hatches had been battened
down and when it was believed the
men, imprisooed in the steel shell, were
using their artificial means of air
supply, shiire parties discerned a man's
form emerging from a hatch.
Instantly a lifeline was shot to
ward the submarine from the beach.
At the risk of his life, the seaman en
deavorcd to secure the line but heavy
waves, breaking over the hull, drove
him below.
Meanwhile in the little craft I.icu
tenant Boguach aud Lieut. E. F. Zeinke.
second iu command, were leading a
heroic battle against threatened le
st ruction, equalled ouly by tho efforts
of the rescue parties vainly trying to
reach the diver through tbe rough
sens and the dense fo',
lujuied as they were, every man of
Entrance To Harjbor of
a rough
of the wrecked submersible,
was the
against tbe rough seas all day.
the erew stayed at bia atation. The
release of the chlorine gas when water
entered the storage batteries did aet
seriously inconvenience the men, though .
only their early rescue, aaved tkest
from tbe danger in this regard.
The vessel waa leaking badly. Grad- -ually
she was seen by those on shora
to work her way iaward to the beach,
cutting1 down the distance from shore
by fully one hundred and fifty 'feet. -At
the time it was believed the weight -of
the waves had moved the submarine. ' .
Laat night it was disclosed that' Lieut. -
Bngusck had emptied his submerginii,
tanks & Ugbjefc bhe raft aw that aba .
wrftild be carried closer to share ia aa
netf,ptJejiafTtf taor5rV or tar rrt- ii'
euer i ' - tn- :. ,.
Earlier in tbe day, the tanks had .''i!-' f
been filled In nr effort to let tha diver " r
rest low in the water and steady her
perilous position on the shoal. ' ; .
Iter five men were seen at work on
the deck of the diver. They were armed
with axes and started cutting at the '
wrecked superstructure. ,-
Again an attempt was stag's to make
fast to tbe diver a lifeline shot from
shore and ones more the attempt proved
unsuccessful. ', .
Rescue Follow Quickly ' -
Repeated unsuccessful efforts con
tinued the rest of the afternoon ia tbe
thick fog snd increasing heavy seaa un
til st lust a line waa secured just be- ' '.
fore dark. The rigging of a breeches
buoy snd the rescue of tbe twenty-two
men aboard followed quickly. ; ' V
The H-3 remains gripped oa the
shoal well within tbe surf line. The'
weather became rougher last night and
heavy seas were breaking over ' the
submarine, tossing hei about SO that
little hope is held for her salvage. .;
The H-3 waa built as ana of four '
authorized submarines under aa aet of
congress passed March 3, 1909. Her ' ,,'
contract price was $491,000. She was
originally named the Garfish with tho
official number "Thirty," The eon- F i,
tractor wss the Electric Boat Compsay SL,
of New York and the ship was built ,
by the Moran Company at Seattle. ' , .
Lieutenant Boguseh, commander of
the H .1 was in the naval service in Ho
nolul'i at the time of the loss of the
F 4 here, according to local navy offi
cers. He returned to tho Coast whoa
the K fleet was ordered back there sad
was later sent to tbe H-3. :"
(Associated Press by Pedersl Wireless)
KL Paso, December 14 Alfonso
Leiva, an American and an ex-VUHsta,
has been executed by the Carraaza
authorities at Juarex, according, to a
released American who arrived here
today.
Japan Scoffs At
Peace Proposals
(Associated Press by
Pedsral Wlraless)
TOKIO, Japan,
December L-
The foreign office issued a State
ment today saying that Japan does
not take Germany's proposal for
peace seriously, regarding it merely
ns a political move on tbe part of
the Teutonic Allies, and not made
in good faith or with any expecta
tion that it would be accepted by
imv member of tbe Entente.
The foreign office added the state
incut that, in its opinion, tbe En
tente Allies would have to go OS
fighting to the end and Untif ulti
mate victory is achieved. Peace at
the present juncture is regarded aa
impossible.
-
