--gpAtr -"m-;
NIGHT
EXTRA
VMSTRA
r KtTitj
I" v
uenmg
AI JtCr 4
r4
TFTNXNtrnra ttdttfotp
A
jEw- - JAJ -"
VOL. III. NO. 80
ENTENTE MAY
NAME DEFINITE
PEACE TERMS
Clear Statement of Allies'
Position m Kepiy to
Germany Urged
KOW DISCUSSING PLAN
FL.oyd George Expected to Make
Positive Statement in
Commons
Courses Open to Allies
on Berlin Peace Offer
A blunt rejection of the
ponce note.
1.
2 'Hint ucrmany ue lnvucu io
namo terms in order to sco
U they nro worth considering.
3 That Allies do not ask for
terms, hut present their own
sentiments, terms nnd conditions.
Tho two outstanding points in to
ft day's developments arising out of tho
peaco oner or tno uontrnt empires arc
that the Allies have already begun nn
interchange o ideas on tho situation
nnd that there havo been informal dis
cussions on tho mntlor between tho
United States and representatives of
leading neutral European countries in
Washington.
These discussions referred to a possi-
$. Me basis of common action looking to
ward mediation. President Wilson nnd
K Secretary of Stato Lansing discussed
this phase of tho problem nt a confer
ence today, but no announcement of any
decision was forthcoming.
It appears moro likely, despite severe
criticism of tho Teuton proposal in Lon
don, Paris, Petrograd nnd Rome, thnt
the Entente Hies will present a definite
' ctfiintcr-proposal, stating tho terms on
, which they would consent to peace ne
gotiations, and making a clear state
ment of their aims in tho war.
Foreign Minister Sonnino, of Italy,
I discussing briefly tho German proposal
tin the Chamber of Deputies, stated that
(tha Allies must consider the offer care-
My before taking action and that Italy
fUone could tako no action before con-
polting her nllies.
Kaiser Wilholm, in a speech to Gcr-
'maa troops in Alsace, said that the
ipesce ofTcr of tho Central Empires was
;mado with the consciousness that vic
tory was theirs.
STATEMENT OF POSITION
BY ALLIAES URGED
LONDON, Deo. 15.
A steady tncrenno In sentiment that the
-tlllee In refusing German peace plans
, ihould t forth tholr own terms of peace
WM manifest hero today. Notwithstanding
; the continued illness of Tremler Lloyd
tGeorge It Is known that tho Allies, throne!)
tne Foreign Oftlce, have nlready begun nn
Informal exchange of views on von Beth-
tninn-Hollweg's proposals.
mere are mreo views entcriamea ns 10
jtht course which the Allies should adopt
la answering tho German note, based on the
fcjreslliatlon that tho entente rowers must
carefully avoid the pitfalls set by the Teu
tonic nations. Tho throe plans are: ft.
First. A blunt rejection of tho note. The
Ja4rocates of this course are convinced that
wis will be the only way In which to pre-
. vat the situation being maneuvered to nd-
F.ventege by Germany. Opponents of the
tun hold, on the other hand, that It would
be a serious mlstako not to meet tho Issues
r nlted by von Bethmann-Hollweg.
Second. Tha$ Germany namo her terms
en the assumption that these terms, yet to
IT be made known ofllclally, may really ba
.ortb. considering, and might ba considered
Without damage to Allied prestige,
Third, That tha Allies do not ask Ger-
flawys terms, but detail their own sentl-
ipants as to peace, their own terms and
I conditions.
I suggestions made In the nress nnd neu.
j-ws.1 nations, and particularly development
-Of such an Idea In the United States, have
Me4 In developing sentiment for this third
course. Moreover, It Is seen by newa from
jGtrmsny that the Government did not ex.
Km a favorable response to its proffer 5
"wore, Jutland regards tha main mir-
tfos of on Bethmann.Hollweg's proposals
-s manifestly twofold, to Impress neutrals
fj the, German public Advocates of the
! 01 me Allies' 1 itlne (help l.rm.
va that In such a- ulinntinn . n.
now, the Allies have a ninrtt.i
IWPortunlty to put before tha outalds wnrl!
u M the people of Germany whom
jgp always believed generally Igno-
W me real issues of llm war -. -I,...-
ISu62fite' "I11" Pronouncement of the
Eg-"" alms and dutdosh.
Ceatlaued oo Van JShrht. Columa Two
THE WEATHER
VOItF.aA R7
fcfpr Phlladclahla. and ttlt.,u.. n i.
mjv Mr tonight ana Saturday; colder
mturday; i01CM tonlkt .' pn
lli 'ncreain trtndj lecomlng west-
rcv suiuraay.
js , "uu u u.ti
PS! 5l5,n- 1 Moon rl. lass p,m.
M"WABB B1VEB TIDE CII4IGES
fX'e intim iioi, u,rin,
IS m. ! Hum i.r S3i S
TWM4TUBg AV KACH MOCK
JUSimHjTrw 3 i -yrs
ONE OF THE COMPANY THAT TRIPPED
MltlMMaiMMMMM ""-""" ,,wm, t rlS
No photograph of Philadelphia today is complete without some respectable- citizen lying prostrnto on the pave
ment. I-cvv of tho pciiestrinns who witnessed tho downfall of their fellows had tho courage to lnugh nt tho
unfortunate ones, for those who did not sulTcr slmilnr experiences were few and fnr between. Tho plcturo was
tnken nt Sixth nnd Chestnut streets during tho early rush limir. On the right Is to be noted ono of the dark
green Colonial lamps with which Independence Squnre is now surrounded.
WAR MILLS GRIND,
DEFYING WINTER
Troops Cannot March, but
Machines of Fighting
Never Cease
MANY BATTLES IN AIR
William I'hlllp SImnu, one of the moil
brilliant of the United 1'rcss group o icnr
correapomJents, 7ms juat received his creden
lints accrediting him permanently, or the
duration of the tear, to tha llritish general
headquarters in France, loAcre he xcitl rep
resent the United Press exclusively, fiimmi
( tha first and only neutral corrrsponilmt
to represent a jlmle neutral ticion agency.
By WILLIAM PHILIP SIMMS
(Copyright. 1010, by thn United Prun.)
WITH THE IIUITISII ARMY IX KltANCU
Dec. IS.
This Is machine war. Ono realizes this
more ns winter nwamps tho earth with mud
nnd wet. Tho purely human clement' Is
balked but tho war machines keep irrlrul.
Ins on. Tho Infantry can't march but auto
busses shunt tho men back and forth llko
magic. Tha scouts aro almost parnlyxed
but aeroplanes defy the elements. Tho sol
diers can't pass the mud holes between their
lino and tho enemy, nnd stick to trench
work and trench mortars alt day. So, when
the communique reads, 'Thero Is nothing
to report," It doesn't mean tho front Is silent
for the machine fighting never ceases
Just now ono of tho wettest, chilliest,
dreariest snowfalls on record seems bent
upon ushering In a correspondingly soggy
winter. Hugo Hakes of snow resembling
monstrous goose feathers nnd completely
arresting aerial operations at times limit
the vision to scarcely n hundred yards. But
artillery and trench warfare goes on.
Nothing stops this. The worst possible
weather can only cause n slowing up.
Even when the snow and rain nnd foi;
prevent all attempts at observation, there
are always many charted points ngalnit
which the artillery hammers. The trench
mortar men have the exact range of the
enemy tranches in front.
The freezing weather and thaws are very
Continued on I'ase Three, Column On
HEAVY SNOWFALL FAILS
TO WORRY SHOPPERS
Thousands Think Stores Will Bo
Empty, So They're Not.
Crowd Out
ChrUtmas shoppers, undaunted by he
weather, swarmed downtown this morning
by.lhe thousands to avoid the late Christ
ma rush. Slushy atreets and damp snow
proved to be no bar o making purchases,
judging from the crowded aisles in the de.
partment and specialty stores.
Traffic cops explained tha situation to a
fine point. "When a woman who wants to
shop gets up and. notices the weather U
bad. she immediately thinks that nobody
else will bother to shop. A hundred thous
and other omen think the same thing.
Hence the crowd."
Tha streets didn't bother Chief Connell,
of the Bureau of .Highways, any men than
they did the shoppers. When the Makes be
gan to fall, the Chief routed men to work
on the rushers, and by noon sOOQ were
keening the streets clear. Streets were
flushed and crossing- cleared The Chief
Lid he expeet"! ms"lr w'th he ovr
btt addl that if turned out to be worse
X! n .Wed. wouW be "m on
tha JoV with plows.
Reports from Wat Chester this .fi.r
noon MM that sleighing was excellent, due
to nine Inshes of enow- .
The weather will grow colder after the
last flake falls tonight The temperature
thU morning fell to a new low level for the
Lason. reaching 85 degrees, but tonight the
forecast calls for a drop to SO. At noon
U restored - Virtually the entire coun
try east of the ItocklW fuffer as both
!SL 1 blanket of snow and from low tern
SZStSSVu nd the om Valley
wito weather The low arta l mov.
KtSTSpnWIe I wider weather
I'tTT T3! JSmxa . ' -.
TEUTONS TAKE
BlffiJONDASH
Mackensen's Army Captures
Important Rumanian
Railway Center
4000 MADE PRISONERS
IirciU.IN. Dec. IS
Kleld Mnrslial von Mackensen's army
has captured tho great railway center of
Duzeu In northeastern Ilumanla, tho Ger
man War Olllco nnnomiced today. Iluieu
Ilea about Blxty miles northeast of Bucha
rest nnd Is considered one of the main gate
ways) to tho Hmnnnlnn province of Mol
davia. Three railroads converge there.
Tho - Bulgarian havo effected another
crossing of tho Danube near Votcshtl. Fe
tcshll lies nt tha western end of tho great
Cernnvoda bridge.
The capture of 4000 additional lliuso-ltu-manlan
prisoner by the Ninth Army Is re
ported In the olllclal xtntement.
Tho War Odlcn states that the puraulf
of tha fleeing nrmlea In being pressed by
the German allies despite bad weather and
bnd "roads.
The path of the retreating Itusslan army
Is marked by burning villages, the com
munication says.
Tho IUisslnna keep up their atacks along
tho Carpathian, but without success.
Iliizeu Is a city of nearly IS.OOO Inhab
itants and Is an important railroad center
a little more than half way between I'loescl
and ItamnloifSarah, nt that point where
Ilumanla Is narrowest.
Olllclal statements from I'etrograd re
cently have Indicated that It was the
Ilumanlan-Ilusslan plan to retreat a tho
Buzeultlver Una and there make a stand
against tho German adnrjg, which pressed
northward unremittingly after the capture
of Bucharest. Tho Buzeu Klver runs Just
Combined on fate l'.tllit. Column One
PRIESTS RISK LIVES
TO SAVE SACRAMENT
Carry Vessels to Safety During
Fire at Holy Ghost Col
lege, Corn wells
Several prlfsts risked their Uvea tu save
the Blessed Sacrament und holy vessels
when lire, believed to bo of Incendiary
origin, swept the Holy Ohost Apostolic
College at Cornwells, Ta., early today.
Kirea were discovered almost simultan
eously In tho basement and on the third
floor. Tha tower of the J150.000 building
was seriously damaged. The loss was estfi
mated at 125.000. covered by Insurance.
There was no panic, although nearly all
the occupants of the building were asleep
when ft watchman, smelling smoke, dis
covered the Are at J:30 o'clock. The Ilev.
W. Ij. Teehan, subdlrector and treasurer of
the college, made his way through a burn
ing part of the building to carry out the
blessed sacrament, and many of the chalices
and other holy eel. He was assisted
by several priwts.
The sacrament was carried to the room
of a slk brother, who watchnU It, while
others Joined In fighting the fire.
College officials denied that there were
indications that the fire was of Incendiary
origin. They said It was dUoovered tn a
small room In the basement and shot up
through the tower, giving the Impression
that It started In two places simultaneously.
Tho origin, however, has not been deter
mined. The Ore made quick headway The dor
mitories, which are In the main building.
were) (Bled with smoke and It looked as
though the college wa doomed. The
watchman at wise sounded tha flru bell,
and the twelve priests and protestors, nine
Crtiw4 eu l'aje.KovfB, Selena 'iv
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER
ITS WAY TO WORK
GERMANY VAGUE
AMBASSADOR SAYS
Count BakmetefY, Russian
Envoy, Declares Offers
Indefinite
MUST
BE CONSIDERED
Count George Bakhmetoff. ltinnlnn Am
bassador to the United States character
ized tho peaco proposals of tho Central
Towers aa "too Indefinite today, upon tils
arrival In this city to attend tho "Mnde In
America Bazaar," being held In Horticul
tural Hall.
Ho came hero from Washington with his
wife arriving at tlrbml Htrect Station
about 2 :30 o'clock, nnd wan met nt the train
by William Scull, of Overbrook. whose
pest ho will be while In tha city. Unlike
tho French Ambassador who wns hero sov
ral flay ago7n&"c"omrnttlee wni formed to
gett him.
When pressed for nn Interview upon the
possibility of pence within the near tuturo
he said:
"Tho offer of tho Central Umpires Is too
Indellnltc. Every phase must bo considered
most thoroughly, I think, before any nctlon
can bo taken. Until that time I do not
feci that I can make any comment upon the
situation."
He and his wife were taken by .Mr. Scull
In an automobile to tho Itltz-Carltnn, nfter
which they planned to attend tho bnznnr
being conducted for tho benefit of wur
sufferers nbroad.
Today is "Itusslan Pay" nt tho tiaznnr.
It was for that reason that tho distinguished
diplomat was Invited to nttend. When tho
Count nnd Madame liakhmetoff alighted
from tho train thero was not tho same en
thusiastic salutation ns wns accorded Am
bassador Jusserand when ho enmn hero on
Wednesday nftcrnoon. The Itusslnn Knvoy
Is not so well known In this country.
Beside Mr Scull only a detective sent
thero from City Hall, accompanied him to
nn uutomobtle. The plain-clothes man was
assigned by Captain Tate to act ns his
body guard whllo ha Is in Philadelphia.
WATER MAIN BURST
BY DYNAMITE BLAST
Miniature Niagara Pours Steady
Stream on Manayimk Streets,
but Cellars Are Not Flooded
Thousands of gallon of water were
wasted today and residents In lower Box
borough and Manyunk were Inconvenienced
by the low-water pressure, when a twenty
Inch water main burst at the corner of
Jamestown and I'ennsdala streets. A dy
namite blast set off to dislodge rocks by
J. J. MoIIugh. a contractor. Is said, by
tha police, to have cracked the main,
which burst with a roar.
The twenty-Inch main pipes hae a
forty-eight pound prussure, and for nearly
two hours the miniature Niagara gushed
forth and poured In a steady stream for
nearly three-quarters of a mile down Ter
race street nnd Shur's lane until It reached
Main street.
That houses were not floodi1 was due
to tha fat that the contractor Is exca
vating streets there, and had prepared to
pava Shur's lane. The excavated street
kept the water running In a steady flow,
and kept It from flooding cellars and house.
Several big gullies' were washed by the
steady stream.
It was fully two hours before the flow
was checked. The snow helped to absorb
a good part of It.
Child Burned to Death by Hot Coals
CHESTER, Fa, Dec 15. Nlne-montbs-old
Anna Dlsclnlllo. daughter of an Italian
of Chester Heights, was fatally burned
while she was playing In front of the
kitchen toe today. Several hot ooals
dropped through the grate and alighted
upon. th ehlW. The Utti vUttUn wjHred
to. the Chester KwpWal two'hQUra later.
15, 1D1G
CorTtiariT.
QUICK
DIG BREAK IN WHEATS FLOUR TUMBLES ALSO
CHICAGO, Dec. 15. After rallying niotttttl noon from tlio birr
biink of the morning, whent ngnln brolte slintply this nftcrnoon' nmt
rloVeil with n net loss of 10 to 1 1 ccittR for the dny. December closed
nt 31.42 1-SJ. down 11 cents! Mny nt 1.63 1-2, ofr 11 1-8 cents, nntl
.July nt Sl.a'J 1-1, off 10 3-8 Tiom ypsterilny'n close.
MINNEAPOLIS, Dec. 10. Flour prices thopued 50 cents heic
today, tnnicing tho totnl dccHiu- for the week 91. Millers nro now
ciuotliig nt $8 per bnrtcl.
GERMANS TORPEDO THREE SHIPS. ONE NEUTRAL
LONDON. Dec. 10, Tin ce ships, one n neutral, linvc been sunk
by German submarines, It w.ts stated In dispatches iccclvcd l.tit
toi'.aj. They wcic tho Notwcglou stcnuthhlp Kititunuger, uiS- luus
the lliltlsh ship Qlcucoc, UOUll tons, nnd (ito Portuguese btcamslup
leci. 1011 tons. '
PEACE SITUATION CAUSES NERVOUS DAY IN WALL ST.
M:V YOIIK. Dec. 15. IncrcuMluK apprehension oter tho pence situation caused
one of tin. most tempostuotut ilnyo In Willi stioot'.i history today. Honsltlvo to oven
tho Rlltiliic.i (uitHlde InlltiencvH und i'Iihiikck. prices llurtunted so nipldly thnt nt
times the tickers rnn twenty to twrnty-ilvu minutes behind trnnsnetlous. TrndlnK
wns fast mid fuilmis. Ithllle.s nnd brrnkw fnllowed ono another with lightning,
like rnpldrtv. War stockst and steels and coppers, tho tiinkorn nnd losers of for
tunes, i,., n,,, tempest, steel rommoit. which hns held tins center of tho stool; BtnKo
for months In the public interest, dropped to 100'd, only to crawl back n few
minutes later to llli. Other xtocl Issues sustained losses of from Ilvo to ten points
generally, n was dllllcult to get actual IIkutcs. so ipilrkly did thoy ehnngo. Crucible,
Liirkiiwiinim. liiMplrntlou, Keonecolt and I'tnh ropper followed tho genornt trend
and showed losses ranging from imo to flo nnd six points.
ONE-CENT LOCAL POSTAGE BILL l.EKOKG CONOIIESS
VASHI.N(?TON, i),.(. m One cent postage on loenl drop letter mall nnd In.
creased tKislage for second cIiihh mull, laeltidlog all newspa pcis and magazines. Was
recommended to the House for favorable nctlon by the IIouso l'osloi,eo Committee
today. The vote wns taken In eveeotUe nesslun of tho commlflce nnd tho extent of
tho Increase In second elas.s mull charges Is not yet known.
CITY SCHOOLS DEFY HEAVY SNOWSTORM
All public schools wero open this afternoon In splto of tho beaxy nnowstorm.
The Superintendent of Schools lias the authority to omit tho afternoon session in
ense of bad weather, but nt the headquarters of tho Hoard of IMucatlon the author
llles ntircei! that the "children would bo better off In school."
BLINDED BY SNOW, ENGINEER KILLED ON RAILROAD
An engineer on the lVnnsylvnnla lt.illio.ul wns hilled this morning on Ills way
to work when, blinded by the snow, he was rut In two by a shifting onglin? noar
tho West I'hllndelphla roundhouse. Tho engineer, Grant Carter, was married nnd
lived In Wilmington.
SENATE BILL WOULD MAKE U. S. FEED EMPLOYES AT COST
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1C Tho Senate struck at tho high cost of living this
afternoon by adopting rosolutions providing first stops towurd having tho Federal
Government supply foodstuffs nnd supplies to Government employes nt cost prices.
The resolution, -orfeced by Senator Gallliiger, the Republican leader, directs tho Sjc
rotarlos of War and tho Navy to report to tho Scnnto bow many persons nro now
supplied at cost by tho Government nnd whether It would .bo practicable to extern!
tho privilege to other Government employes.
LAW EXPRESSES DESIRE FOR NEW ORDER IN IRELAND "
LONDON, Dec. ID. . now stato of affairs In Iiclaml "Is most deslrnble," Chan
cellor of tho Kxchcquer Itounr I.nw announced In Commons today, lauding a speech
by tho Irish Nationalist leader, John Itedmnnd. l
KENT CLOWS $100,000 CHICAGO HOME BURNED
CHICAGO, Dec. 1G. Ilcsldcnts of tho fasblounblo I.nka Forest neighborhood
turned out In foico early today to light n flro which destroyed tho $100,000 homo
of Kent H. Clow. Mr. and Jlrs. Clow lied In their bathrobes nfter saving Jlra.
Clow's Jewels.
SUNDAY'S LIFE THREATENED BY LIQUOR MEN, HE SAYS
IIOSTON, Dec. 1G. A special policeman accompanied "Hilly" Sunday on his
trips about Itoston today and stood guard over tho Sunday homo whllo tho evangelist
wns resting. Sunday announced that his life had been threatened In an anonymous
letter. "Work of tho Ibiiior Interests," bo declared. "They'ro nfrnld of me."
TEUTONS PLAN TO DEVELOP MESOPOTAMIA
1U.IH.IN, Dec. 15. With u capital of rp,000.000. a great Oerman-AustroHun
garlun company has Just been Incorporated for tho Industrial and agricultural
development of Mesopotamia nnd other parts of Asiatic Turkey. Tho corporation
is financed by tho leading banks of tho Central Kmplres and linn secured options
on large tracts of html sillied fnr cotton plantations nnd scientific farming. In
Armenia valuable mining properties havo been ucqulrcd which prarnlto great re
turns If they are worked properly. A commission of German nnd Austrian experts
Is nt work In tho districts to Vo exploited and tho company will shortly begin to
curry out Its plans.
RUMANIAN PREMIER QUITS; CABINET YET UNFORMED
COPKNHAGKN, Dec. 15.ltcslRnatlon of tho Rumanian I'rcmlor, nt Jnssy, tho
now capital of Hint monnichy, was nnnounccd In dispatches received hero today. A
new Cabinet has not ct been formed.
TWO FREEZE TO DEATH; ZERO WEATHER IN MIDDLE WEST
CHICAGO, Dec. IS. Two deaths from freezing, much suffering among tho poor
nnd tho usual outburst of fires came toduy on tho heels of zero weather through u
large part of tho West nnd Mlddlo Wet. Tho mercury dropped to ono above ssoro
In Chicago und went fur below In theallddlo Northwest.
LLOYD GEORGE BETTER; TO SPEAK TUESDAY
LONDON. Dec. IB, Premier I.Ioyd Ooorgo wns much better today, his Illness
having subsided. His physicians Indicated he wiuld be able to speak In Commons
Tuesday.
WINTER CASE OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS FATAL
A winter ense of Infantile paralysis has caused thu death of flvomonths-old
Veronica Kuraclt, daughter of Oeorgo Kurack, of Oakvlow, Upper Darby township,
after an Illness of two days. The houso Into which Korncl; nnd his family moved
about ten days ago Is said to have been the home of a child who suffered from the
malady and recovered some weeks ago.
CHILD, MOTHER OUT SHOPPING, SERIOUSLY BURNED
Three-yal1d Ca-"e Jennings, of 1018 Moyamenslntr avenue, Is In a srltleal con
dition today at the Mt. Slnal Hospital from burns received when her,drei caught
fire. The accident occurred while her mother was out doing Christmas shopping.
The child's dre-sa became Ignited from a gas range. Sho rushed screaming to the
street, where a pedantrlan turu off her burning clothing.
POPE ISSUES CHRISTMAS MESSAGE ON PEACE
COPENHACIBN. Dec. 15. In reply to tho peace overtures of the Central Pow
ers, Pope Benedict la expected to bwue u. general Christmas proclamation tn a few
days, according to advice received here today.
THREE MORE AMERICANS ON WAR CASUALTY LISTS
OTTAWA. Dec 15. The name et the more Amerlens appeared In the Cana
dian casualty lists. They are; Wounded Private g. Snow (mounted rifle, (Jreoo,
Me.; Bombardier H. Turtand, artillery, Detroit, Srtouly, ?fc-SjjrBiat V, Nlvta
lold, t tnt rcstie I.tpotn Commit.
NEWS
PRICE ONE CENT
BLIGHT OF RUM 4
SET ON YOUNG'
LEGISLATORS
Ex - Representative
Tells Grangers of Evil
Wrought by Lobby
YOUNG MEN RUINED
AT START OF CAREER
Sinister Influences Used on
New Members on Arrival
at Harrisburg
END OP A LIQUOR PROBE.
Incident Shows Power Which Ar
rested Exposure of Impuri
ties Ycnra Ago
Accusations thnt the liquor Interests hnv
corrupted the government of 1'ennoylvanlA.
have nrrested the moral nnd mental deveN
npment of the Slnto nnd hnvo blasted th
careers of hundreds of young legislator
In llnrrlsburg wero made today by frank
N. Moore, of llrndfortl County, overseer of
the Pennsylvania State Qrange, which 1
holding Its forty-fourth annual session In
this city.
Tho llnuor blight Is still strongly In
trenched In Hnrrlsburg. according to Mr.
Moore. Ho asserted Pennsylvania would
not receive good government until It was
wiped out.
Tho overseer of tho Hlnln Orange epofce
from ninny years' experience In tho Lcgls
latum and ns n former spcclnl ngont of the
Pennsylvania Pure Food nnd Dairy Com
inlmlon.
Mr. Monro described how the liquor In
terests maintain twclvo or moro lobbyists
nt Hnrrlsburg. Tha principal work of thesa
lobbyists, be snld, wns to corrupt yolins
legislators who coma to Harrlsbury ready
tn work for honest legislation reflecting the
desires of their constituents, lie told of.
tho old days when tho liquor lobbyhUaY
carried on their work within the walls ot
the Capitol. Ho said tho booie ring main
tained quarters In tho Stnte House, which
wero well stocked with liquors. When H.
wns dcslr.d to obtain tho co-operation of
"Idealistic young legislators," ho Bald, 4fi
bflozo lobbyists lured them Into the rum
qunrteru and goi them drunk. There wera
beds, ho said, In tho quarters where legis
lators could "sleep oft" ttuMr Intoxication
nnd baths whero they icould bolt.pu
"hangovers" 'oWof' their systems.' Ths J
same methods, Mr. Moore said, were etlll
icing employed .outside of the unimoi in
larrjsburg by the booio ring.
IMPUIti: LIQUORS AND DEER3
Mr. Mooro snld his acquaintance wltl
tho sinister Influence ot tho booxa rnz
began In IS38, when as a special agent for .
tho Dairy nnd Food Commission he begun
t'ontlnurd on I'aie Fuur. Column Tir
DEMOCRATS HOLD
Will Caucus at Harrisburgf
Tomorrow to Decide Leg
islative Course
MAY OFFER CANDIDATE
The part that tho Democratic members
elect will piny In the Speakership fight and
tho bitter factional warfare between th
Vnro-Ilrumbnugh coalition nnd the Penrose,
forces will bo determined upon tomorrow at
a conference. 10 be held In Jlarrjsburg.
The conference will be held In the Senate
Hotel, at 1 o'clock. The thirty-seven mero
berselcct of the House, the ten Democrntte
"State Senators nnd tho State leaders, In
eluding A. Mitchell Palmer, Democr&tia
national committeeman; Vance C. McCor
mlck, Iloland 8, Morris and acting State
Chairman Joseph V. duffey will attend.
In addition to the Democratic attitude
in the Speakership tight, the part the Demo
crats hope to play during the session will be .
decided, No candidate for Speaker will be
brought out nt tomorrQw's meeting, but on '
will bo selected nt the regular caucus of the
Democrats to be held the last week of the
month. ,
It Is oonoeded by leaders of both factions
that the Democrats, who have thlrty-seyen
votes In the next House of Representatives,
could swing -iletnry In the fight for amjrol
of the Legislature to whichever faction thy.
might throw their strength. "7-7T7"
MAY OFFER CANDIDATE, f. '
Tha Democratic State leader, hqwevMj;"
on the eve of the caucus, today expressed
tho opinion that the Democrat would ad
vnnee a candidate of Jhelr own for SpeAket
and that they would maintain their own
organisation throughout the session.
The date ot the caucus of the Republic
Philadelphia delegates has not, been aet
but the meeting will be held during tin U$t
week ot December, It was announced tcxi-ty.
The oauens of the Al'sgheny County iiJi.
gallon will be held bot the sain Um.v
Tha AIUBNny Couriy members-elect qj&f'
a wtk ago at the oa.,1 ot Mayor Arnutrvjti "
of pittsbursn, and e(ecud James I Wufti
ward chairman He was In Phlladeintsfc
today, and wdq that he expected ever1 g
of the twentjf-fui jaenibers-elect ra Jg
legbepy County t& i-Uend the wfeaiC
caucus. .J,
Word waa retvd from Hitrtliburw i
A, Kevin jojiiroy, or i.-iuBMrtmr
rtetansA aa State t3ujpritsadsiit ot
Printing and UIMin, HW -nji-iwi; tu
mi a i mi. ariai t
,3flfiWsu' -" .-
?r
-
j t
I
