REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
50 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, DECEMBER .15, 191G
30 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 210
THE ARIZ
ENTENTE BELLIGERENT
NOT FLATLY REJECT CENTRAL
POWERS' PEACE PROPOSAL
WILSON HAt SEE
ill WAY TO OFFER
GOOD OFFICES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON'. Dec. 14. Arrival of
Iioth the German and Austrian peace
notes and broad intimations at the en
tente allied embassies that the pro
posals of the central power would not
lie flatly rejected without examination
were the outstanding developments here
today In the peace move.
Germany's note, substantially the
same as the published texts, arrived by
table in the early hours of the morning,
and just as the state department was
closing for the day. Austria's note ar
rived.'" Secretary Lansing said it was
identical with Germany's and that nei
ther contained any change in meaning
from the semi-official versions.
It was stated officially that neither
Germany's nor Austria's note would tie
forwarded before tomorrow, if Indeed
then, and there was no indication that
the president had made up his mind
what-action, if any, he would take in
transmitting the central power propos
als to the entente belligerents.
When, with the announcement of the
. German proposals two days ago, it ap
peared that the entente allies were in
clined to eject the offer flatly, it ap
peared very doubtful if President Wil
son could find a wa" to ad J a word ol
mediation In transmitting the notes.
With the apparent moderating of that
firKt attitude, as reflected in the Brit
ish newspaopera and among the entente
allied diplomats here, the way seeu.s
easier for the president to express in
some way the hoie of the t'nlted States
that the proposal for a discussion of
peace will not be rejected without con
sideration. In such a step there is a
likelihood of the I'nited States being
supported by some of the European
neutrals. The minister of one of the'n
today asked his government to author
ise him to assure the president of en-lyrs-ment
in such a move, and it is be
lieved others are Considering the same
phase of the situation.
The Spanish ambassador, Mr. Rlano,
and the Swiss minister. Dr. Hitter, both
conferred with Secretary Lansing today.
Their governments also are acting as
intermediaries in transmitting the pro
posals. Whether they discussed the
prospect of a neutral concert was not
disclosed, but the impression prevailed
that in the absence of a derision by
President Wilson the subject was
scarcely more than touched upon.
The change In the attitude of the en
tente embassies, ho.vever was regarded
as the most Interesting ' development
pointing to the probable position of the
allies. It was indicated that to avoid
being placed in the position of flatly re
jecting peace overtures without know
ing what is proKjsed. it was not' im
probable that after mature deliberation
umong themselves the allies would
make replv, inquiring upon what basis
m discussion was suggested. Such ac
tion by the allies, it was pointed out,
would not bind them to a conference.
The German view of the next prob
able step Is that a meeting of represen
tatives of all of the belligerents should
be proposed for a general discussion of
an approach to a basis for tieace. Ger
man officials here repeatedly have ex
"'essed their conviction that once hav
ing gone that far, the movement would
(Continued on Page Two)
EXECUTIVE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire necticut system of naming a state fl
WASHINGTON, Dec. 14. The execu- "anda! board to assist in planning ap-
ii, v., ,..,. . . , i .i. pro)riations and told how the state'a
live budget system of Maryland, the in6;,htciA.nif na(, hp(.n reduced bv sev ,
only state with such a scheme of finan- eral million dollars within the last fe
cial control, was given-general approv- years. Others outlined the fiscal sys
al today in a discussion at the ninth tems of their own states and praise
annual governors' conference. Its pro- the executive budget plan. Governor
visions were outlined by Governor liar- elect Goodrich of Indiana, said he ex
rington of Maryland and by Dr. Krank peeted to put through the executive
J. Goodnow, president of Johns Hop- budget at the next legislative session,
kins University, who was chairman of. Governor McCall of MvsachusetU
a committee that drafted the plan. iK.inted out that since the speaker of
Those attending the conference were he house had been shorn of his power
dinner guests tonight at the White j, the selection of committees, federal
House, rovers were laid for about for- a mropriatloim were larger thnfi ever
ty governors, former governors and before. '
governors -elect, and half as many
w-omen of the governors party.
Interest in the conference was quick
ened today by prospects that Secretary
of War i'aker and Prlgadler Genera:
Mann, chief of the division of militia
affairs, might discuss the status of the
national guard before one of tomorrow's
sessions. Resolutions were adooted to
day inviting them to speak, after dis
cussion. Governor Spry of I'tah, de
clared the militia problem was one of
the moat Important the governors face.
Governor Holcomb. of Connecticut, said
ro one knew the present statua of the
7'inrd. and that he intended to oppose
the building of any armories In Connec
ticut until he learned definitely where
it stood.
"It now looks." he said, "as though
the guard is about nineteen-twentieth
federalized, with-the rest of authority
In the states."
The Maryland budget plan us de
scribed bv Governor Harrington, seeks
to make imiiossible an expenditure if
more money In appropriations than is
received bv th fommonweal'h from all
source. It centers authority in the
governor.
Governor Holcomb described the Cnn-
REPARATION FOR THE
PAST AND ADEQUATE
SECURITY FOR FUTURE
fRepublxan A. P. Leased Wire
Both the Gorman and Austro-Hun-garlnn
notes concerning peace have
been received in Washington and
soon will be transmitted to the bel
ligerents of the entente powers. No
official Intimation has vet come as to vote by parliament of an additional
whether President Wib'on wiil merel.' j credit ot l: 4(K'.Oiiii,I(00.
transmit the notes as received or an- "n tl.e tiffining fronts even where,
noince to their recipients that the i ec?.t Uumar.ia and along both banks
I'r-ited States hopes that a discussion ! of the .Meuse, omy bombardments ant"
of peace may result. minor operations are being carried
While Gteat Hrltnia. has not yet ! out. In Romania the Danube army
officially received the proposals, he.-iof the Teutonic allies now ha crossed
attitude and that of her allies with ; the Jilomitxa river, and all along the
regard to pe;'ce was reiterated in ; front the advance of the invaders con
the bouse of commons Thursday by ! tinner, unchecked.
Mr. Honar Law; the new chancelioi 1 No details have come through as
of the exchequer, who said the en- to French operations along the .Meuse.
tente adits required adrounte repnr- except a statement in the Merlin offi
ation for the past and adequate secur- cial communication that the Freud
tiy fur the future. have made advances on both banks ol
semi-official statement from the river. Paris merely reports lHm
Petrigral regarding the peace pro- bardments In these regions,
posals. attacks the Teutonic powers The Teuions have Isimbarded Mon
for lack of sincerity and says the astir and the entire f-ont is held by
irm determination of the entente the Serbians in this sector.
CENTRAL? PIERS PEftCE PLAN"
RECEIVED Mil! SYMPATHY
BY II ROSSI GOVERNMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire -olitlate her arsre.'ijdi e ;.nd mperial
PCTKoGUAD. Dec. 14. (Via Um- Ut. lPmil,,,( p whH sowing d'score
donj The peace propos.'i of the cell- , , .. ,. , , . .
tral l-wers Is regarded by the If.s- 1"'o-h . )' cWkintj mak
sian gowrnment as '.".n attempt to pui lie opinion be.ice that seiJirut
court public opinion aril rmuurage peace trrleys were in progress be
the P.pls ,,t Germany by 'tearing ,WP,. ri.,. nJ th(, ,.nto,,,e , own
to put the responsibility for the (nn- ;. .
tintiHtion of the war upon the entente 'There also were persistent report
jjjjp,"
The proposal has been re eivej l,y !, . ""w-.m ir met, now ever, tna
official Vetrosrad wit! out an ato.n ' ."'. Jf11'?" ,w!lh rmx unamity re
of sympathy. An off a lal of tpe J'r'd a" tlie.e att-mpts. our enemlt
foreign office made today the follow- j to 'j"1 !l m"r ,ennn plan
Ing statement which has been issued ! Tuh;' tn,I"' ar' " f.te o
ngcncy:
"Th? new appeal of our cnem
i
not tneir first nttempt t throw upon arA- ennouncing their anxiety to en
the Ptcmt powers the resp n.ilbillty i -' 'n,. negotiations for p-ace.
for the war they let loose. In order!. n" "f "In-crity and the Oh
io ob'alr. the anpprt or th iu mil I J." 1 "-'nn pr.-ros-ai. Is ev
tropica, who are tired of th war. th-i ,Tnf" 'nV Koernment have
Kerlin government manv tims has ,h'''n of h'roK- measures to rornp!et
had recourse to fallacious words of'!"' K'b" '""r armies. Germ in
te-ice. and has fre-iuentlv.' in ord-r to ' ""'W'tlng a sort of s-rfdo.n in th
animate its troops, offered prrspects I" ' ,of fmpulsory military ervice
of nn earlv peace. It promised Tei-c Thf.erman government, in order t.
when Warsaw was taken, when Serbi t ,,r,,lrt "n hrarf of ,u people and t
was conquered, forgetting that such i ;'rr,''?r: 1 or trh ""'f''"i'' I
promises unfilled woobi t re tte pro- ' "r lvi,'K create a ravorsbl- atmos
found distrust phere with the following the-ls-
"In Its further effort', whiih nr ' ar'" ""'Js'ining for our eitlst
f imilarlv due to the same interested )rn- "o prop islrg nea e; It If
consid'-rati. n. the German government f?J Threfor. the resuoimi
i ol.liged to carry this question O'K-
side of Germany. All' the worlri re-
calls these attempts. notaWy its Pal-
ion dT-ssii which were -nt up in
net'tral runlries, particularly the
L'nit?d States.
"Seeing the inanity of su-h m-th-ods.
which deceived nobody, erm''ny
attempted to create' a .p ic' atmos
phere, which would al'ow her lc ron-
BUDGET SYSTEM
Smith Says Immunity Is
Promised
rPepuhlleatt A. P. Leased Wire
HAN FKANCISCO, Dec. 14. -Louis J.
Smith, the government's chief witness,
stuck to his testimony today in the
face of erslstent cross examination
by the defense in the trial of Kraiu
Hopp. German consul general in San
Francisco, and gix other for alleged
conspiracy to violate t'nlted States
neutrality by blowing up munitions
ships intended for the entente allies.
Smith, one of the seven under Indict
ment, was forced by Theodore Koche.
of counsel fur the defense, to admit that
he had been promised Immunity from
punishment in return for his testimony
at this trial. He also admitted that
following thQ alleged receipt of
fl.254.Si from the German consulate
funds here In July, 1915, be had Jour
Ma i
"to continue the war to a final tri
umph can be weakened hf no Illusory
proposals of the enemv." ,
Thr.t thero is to be no abatement
In Gteat Britain's military prepara
tlons is Indicated by the unanimous
"'"'iie peso-.
, i.ii-ti vo.iiiuenre m rncir military and
:c omir ower. an appl t tht
t iM.-.u piriim, jpaiii unu i?wiizer-
L" '' r"r "ie continuation cf the
war
fi'J' ' ul' " 'r enemies.1
"The object pursued bv Germanv
however, is clear. She sn-:. !. i,r r .
jst-ect for the rights of nntions. hir
al the nme time she has alread1
Introduced into Pelgiun.. Serbia. Mon
tenegro and 1'olcnd a reglm" of terro
and violence. As for the futur-. Ger
many has proclaimed an illuscr,. in
leie'.d.iie for Poland: he propise
to divide Serbia l'wpi Bulgaria ni
Austra. ecoromlcxllv to suhjugat
Pelrb m and cede to Hilsirla ar
of r-iimacian territory.
"E.ervv Iwie the idea of ibe hege
mony of G.-rmany predominate. Thr
bitet specbes of von pethm-inr.-IfoHweg
show the true aspirations ,f
the German rovernment. Rut todtiv
wher, the entente rowi-rs hav pro.
l-iimed their unshakable d"termln2
tlon in ccntinue the wr to a uc
'essf.il end nd to prevent German
from establishing her bejenony nc
favorable ground exists for peace' ne
goth'tlon. "JTil,. ,'to,''" r-", w ould iissum-
terrible responsibility before thide
copies, before all hintanltv f the?
mrprde,i the utrtiggle against G"r.
n.tny"") latest attompr to profit bv
he present situation to implant he
eeemonv in Knrope. All the ' in.
-lumerable sarrifiies of the ailier
vould be nullified by a urematurc
neace with the enemy, who is ex
hausted, but not yet brought down
"The firm d"tei mln'ition V the en
tente powers to continue th war tc
a final triumoh can be weakenel l
no Illusory proposal of the enemv,"
for Testimony
neyed from Sun Kranclseo to Oshkoah
Wis., accompunied by a woman j ot his
wife. The court however, sustained
objection preventing Wie defense from
furthT ti"'tli.mi.i; Smith concerning
the latter Incident.
Kf forts to prove Smith a deserter
from the First .Maryland Volunteers
with w horn he enlisted at the outbreak
of the 4imnlnh war. failed. Throughout
the day Koche attempted unsuccess
fully to draw from Smith an udmlssion
that the British consular office here
and in Detroit, Mich., had befriended
him in return for his testimony against
Hopp. ire -Consul K. II. Von Schack
Lieutenant G. W. von Hrlncken, the al
leged go-tetween, C. C. Crowley, rind
Crowley's assistant, Mrs. Margaret W.
i Cornell,
VERIFY RUMORS
TWO AMERICANS
SL1 BY VILLA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 14. Informa
tion regarded by some officials us con
firming the killing of Howard Gray, or
Weeks, at Parral by Villa, and the
facts regarding- the execution by ban
dits of Charles Fisher, another Amer
ican, at Santa Rosalia and of several
Chinese and Syrians at Chihuahua and
other towns, have been sent by the
atute department to the American rep
resentatives on the Mexican-American
Joint commission which will meet at
Philadelphia Monday.
Among reports received by the de
partment today and forwarded by the
commissioners waa one from Guana
juato telling of the heavy death rate
among the poor. Others told of a
serious economic situation in many
other parts of Mexico.
Officials here remained Ignorant to
night of the action taken by General
Carranza relative to the protocol sign
ed at Atlantic City. K was not believed
that he had instructed bis spokesmen
to make any determined effort to
amend that part referring to conditions
for the withdrawal of American troopt
but it was thought more probable that
he had sent by Alberto J. Panl, who
carried the protocol to him for ratifi
cation, a communication that may be
in effect an ant-wer to the supplemen
tal declaration of policy made to the
Mexicans by the American commis
sioners when the protocol was signed.
Officials pointed .out today that
there is in the agreement us signed no
reference to an arrangement for cross
ing the bonier by American troop, but
in the supplemental declaration mide
by the Americans it waa set forth
clearly that the l.'nited States reserves
the right to unlimited and unrestricted
pursuit of bandits. Since this declara
tion was made at an official session of
the commission, it is regarded as prob
able that General Carrnnia has con
sidered It as no leas official than the
protocol Itself. The "comments" which
the Mexican commissioners have an
nounced they w ill present at the Phila
delphia meeting Monday may be In
the n.Vure of a protest, it is believed
here, asalnst any such declaration of
intention. Such a development, of
ficials pay. would not necessarily be of
character to bring the conferences
to an end.
Confers with Commissioners
NKW YORK.. IK'C. M. The views of
"eneral Carrtmr.a regarding the rati
fication of the protocol signed at Atlan
tic Cltv by the Mexican-American
joint commission were submitted by
Mberto .1. Pani here tislay to Luis
Cabrera, chairman of the Mexb-an
commission, and Mexican Ambassador
lesl?nte. Arrdonrbi - Ini -ar
rived here esten'ay from Jueretan
where he went to place the agreement
lie fore Corrunra for his ratification. It
was Inferred that publication ft Car-
rania s view s would ls reserved until
after the next session of the Joint com
mission. Callet Meets Opposition
DOl'GLA S, !ec. 14. General I".
Elias Calles. who recently announced
hi candidacy on the libera! constitu
tionalist ticket for the governorship of
Sonora. proba'bly will le opposed by
three other prominent Sonorans at the
election in February, according to ar-
-ial from Hermostllo.
Joe Obregon, a brother of General
sjvnro Obregon. Carransa's war min
ister: General Henjamin Hill and Gen
eral Ygnacio Pesuiera are said to be
oreparing to enter the race. Hill was
'nrrnerly military governor of Sonora.
while Pesquiera waV governor ad In
terim for several montri.
Robles Takes Puebla
EL PASO, Dec. 14. Keliel troop un
der the command of .lose Ysabc-I Itobles
were reported here tonight by a local
representative of the Robles move
ment to have captured the city of
I'uebla. southeast of Mexico City on
liecember 10 after six day of fighting.
General Cesario Castro, the Carransm
'eader. was driven from the city nd
the Important neighboring railway
unction of Kintn7.a also fell, accord
ng to the same authority. Hi source
it Information, be said, was 41 sym
pathiser who had .tnt arrived at the
(Continued on Page Two)-
Investor is Real
Railroad's Owner
Says John Minr
fReoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
EVA N S VILLF, "nd.. Dee. 11. John
Muir, chairman of the Railway In
vestors' 1-eagiie, New York, told the
Central States Conference on Ilall
ind Water Transportation In an ad-
1re this afternoon, that the Investor
' the- real owner of the railroads.
He then explained whv the Investor
s worried over the present situation
and told how fair treatment would
nduce him to solve American trans
norlution problem. Mr. Muir salo
n Part:
"Any discussion of rail and water
transportation or any sound analysis
if the present condition of American
transportation cannot secure effective
remedies without the participation
the real owners of the railroads
the investors.
"Quletlv ther hu been going on-'
for the pest ten years iiersistent ab
sorption of railway steaks and bonds
by the small investor. Now men
(and women, too) with moderate
imor.nt of money are Ihe chief
owner Wall street has changed
much during the past ten years. Wall
tieet I no longer a gambler's purn
,"e It is a section of hard work, de
voted to research to obtain fact
ind Pilormittion to guide Ihe thrifty,
how nnd whiit to buy.
"Throughout the country there Is a
Trent nunc of Investors ready to Mip
ilv monev for the railroad develop
ment which the country so badly
needs If these Investors can be
ernvir.ced that capital invested in th.-
railroads will be given proper con
sideration, that most pressing prob
lem, ihe rtislng of the great amount
-f money needed for' new construc
tion nnd ik-Vi'lopuiciit, cum be easily
solccil,"
FROM WAVE-SWEPT SUBSEA
CRAFT PLUCKY CREW MAKES
ESCAPE
WOULD PROHIBIT THE
MANUFACTURE AND
SALE OF
rRerubliean A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 14. The
house judiciary committee today voted
to recommend adoption of the resolu
tion to submit a constitutional amend
ment forbidding the manufacture and
ale of liquor for beverage purposes
in the l.'nited States. L"en the most
emhusiii-tii: champions of the amend
ment hud not expected favorable ac
tion so soon fiom the committee,
which at the Inst session vo;eW to
postpoii" its consideration indefin
itely. Administration ltaders. however,
dcibt that it will reach the senate
In time for action :his session. Pro
hibition ndvr.catfs ar j iijiiai t and
predi' t ultimate adoption of the reso
lution and reference of the i.tn'iid
ment to ti c legislatures of the vari
ous stat'-s at a much earlier date
than thvv hail heretofore hoiied. A
two-thirds majority in both house is
re i uired
Co'iickhmt with the committee's ac
tion n the amendment, the prohibi
tion isu was brought directly to til's
attention of the senate when the
Shepparl bill to prohibit the manu
fai ture and sale of llqi.or in the Dis
trict of Columbia became the unfin
ished business to be kept before the
senate until disposed of. As an
amendment to this bill. Senator Cn-d-rwood
has proposed a referendum
to tie male voters of the District
Senator Kirn of Indiana has addeu
a pro?al that women also shoulu
participate in the referendum. ,
Semiiwnt In the senate for and
aialnt the referendum appears to
le closely dlvld'-d. with a vole or
the titbject exefteij within a day or
Reoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON.. Dec. 14. ConsicL-
ratum of Germany's note answering
trie American protest egainst the de
portation of Belgian for forced lalsir.
received at the state department to
day, probably will be delayed while
the peace proposals of the 'eutopic
powers tu the entente allies are pend
ing. Jl has been Intimated by officials
that all question at Issue lielween
the I'ritcd States might b allowed
to rest at a standstill at least until
the allies bad an opportunity to con-
sioej- ine 'teutonic offer.
In ticw of the" Insistence bv Ger-
mi-ny that there hus been no viola
tion of international iaw or of the!
law of humanity, it is felt here that,
having gone already beyond the
liounds of diplomatic usage, ti:e
t'nlted States cannot undertake any
further step without most careful de
liberation.. In Accordance With Law
BF1:L1N. Dec. 14. I My w ireless to
Sayvillel Assertion that the action
of the Crcrman government In the tie
porta tion of Belgians Is absolhtelv in
accordance' with the principles of in
ternational law Is mitoe in the con-
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P, Leased Wire
OMAHA, Iec 14. Five wild horses
co-t him flO.Ooii, M. E. Silviua. man
ager of Ihe Silviua Investment com
pany. Sicxix Falls, S. I.)., today testi
fied In the government's suit unainst
the Omaha I-and and Investment
company and the L'nlted States Live
stock company, charged with the mis
use of the mails In sales of phantom
wild horses on tha.sovernment reser
vation in Coconino county. Ariaona
Tbe government alieges Sl.OaO.diiO wns
secured fiom sales of Imaginary
hordes,
Silvius said he went to-Ctoonliio
comity, secured the aid of expert
horse wranglers and captured thirteen
horses but they were mavericks and
the sheriff replevined them as prop
erty of the state.
"After much litigation." Silvias
testified, 'I secured five horses and
shipped them to a ranch It High
more. S. D. That was all 1 secured
in exchange for real estate worth
iin.fniii."
Pen Fuller. Salem. S. D., testified
he laid J14.m0 for ti herd of wild
tiooes. He captured seventy, but
only thirteen of them bore the brand
he 'purchased. He Fhippcd the thir
teen to I or Angeles, he said, but
"most -pf them died before they were
sold."
John Sinclair, cnttloman of Flag
staff. Ariz.., testified he sold J. Sid
ney Smith, one of the clelenilants, l.'i'l
head of wild horse and Smith nsked
him to make out the bill of sale for
1.1U0 head, which he refused to do.
About a month later, he testified.
INTERNATIONAL
LAW NOT BROKEN
SAYS GERMANY
PHANTOM ARIZONA WILD HORSES
NET PROMOTERS MILLION DOLLARS
AFTER DAY'S BATTL!
uquor
ALL
two.
Discussion of the Sheppard bill af
forded opportunity for comment on
the proposed amendment, several sen
ators, among them Sheppard, Varda
man ano Owen, predicted triumph for
the- cause of nation-wide prohibition
in the near future.
Hnrdlv anyone doubted tonisht that!
prohihition will be a dominant legis- ficera and twenty-five man crew safe
lativo issue before the new sixty- ashore after eight hours of battering in
fifth congress, if the constitutional her breaker tosed hull, the I'nited
: amendment does not reach a vote thi.- States submarine H-3 pounded uneasily
j winter. !n the house before the tonight 125 yards off shore two muV.s
Hinondrr.cnt can be taken up, for con- north of the Eureka harbor entrance,
siderntion a special rule must lej Her commander. Lieutenant H. it. lio
adoptrd giving it the right of way. gusch, last to step into the breeches
Representative Webb, chairman of th buoy which had carried his men ashore
jiK'iciary committee, will ask for such before him, closed her conning tower
; h ruie earlv i.i January and endeavor hatch tight, and said his vessel wa.
to press the resolution to an early practically water free and probably
ote. (capable of salvage.
I Sev tn ni'-n.bers of the judiciary1 This will be attempted as soon as a
committee voted agsinrt reporting navy tug can traverse the 1M4 milts
j the prohibition amendment. They from San Francisco, one having been
I wi re flard of Ohio. Dyer of Missouri, ordered tonight bv radio to leave Mare
; Ikoe of Missoi ri, Graham and Steele island navy yard at once,
o' Ir.ny!venN, Walsh of Massa- All of the twenty-seven had suffered
chtis-'tts and Danforth f New York, bruises in the pounding which accom-
Itepres. ntatives Williams of Illinois ,,anied their surf forced progress up
and c.-irlin of Irgina. who were op- the beach. At 10 o'clock this morning
j posed to the resolution at ,the last the H-3 was more than 300 yards off
wi-sicn. voted tins time to reeom- ghore when she noeeti 11!to the sandt a
mend its adoption. I heavy fog concealing the land from
In id"nt Wilson was urged late her navigator. When dark closed down
i.Hiav ov ine -,e . larenee i . n nson.
' - I ' - III 111 III.- .,1, l ll.JMf :.l LUII! r nil
board, to use his Intlluence with con
gres to prohlrit the use of the mails
for the "er.ding of liquor advertise
ments bv unlicensed liquor dealer.
Ar. cfort is being made to have such
a provision ir.clrded in the current
potiiffice bill.
ASIIB.ASOUITH
Pepublican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Dec. 15 The allies require
that there shall be adequate reparation
for the past and adequate security for
the future. That is still the policy and
still the determination of his majesty's
government.
This was the declaration of Andrew
Honar Law. repeating the words of Mr.
Asquith three months ago. as he made
his debut today as the leader of the
new government in the house of
( commons.
i It was onlv a brief and passing allu
BONAB LAW IS
AS EMPHATIC
sion to the German peace proposal, huticn.ie nnd the submarines H-l ami
(Contlnued on Page Two)
FACE DOUBLE PERIL
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
LTRKKA. Cat.. Dec. 14. Though
the men of the H-3 showed a marked
disinclination to talk tonight after
reaching shore, their few remarks
revealed a peril in their imprisonment
the watchers on shore had not sus
pected. Several live torpedoes hung
in frames meant neither for the
"Smith made n deal with A. O. Perry
another defendant) and raised the
number in the bill of sale from 100
to 1 1 ii1."
Smith Is president of the fulled
States LHcstock company, an Omaha
corporation.
The government will rest its case
tomorrow afternoon. Sixty-eight
witnesses have been examined, ih
majority of them alleqed victims of
wild horse tianxactions.
Suffrage Advocates Win
Advantage in the House
fRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 14. 'Woman
suffrage advocates Won a partial vic
tory in their long fi"ht to Jiave the
Sus:in P. Anthony ledcral amendment
voted on in congress when the house
ludlclary committee today repotted
the measure tor c-onsideiation withoiu
recommendation. A campaign will be
launched to get :i special rule to
bring tho amendment before the
house for action, probably in January.
Itoth suffragists and .inti-suffra-ists
expressed satisfaction over to
day's development and are confident
of vlotorv on the floor.
Though ."nxioin that the bill lie
reported favorably snffn'gists were
pleased because the committee, which
u..
WASHES ASHORE
III HEAVY FOG
fRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
EUREKA, C'al., Dec. 14. Her two of-
tonighti the diver had traversed 17:.
yards under pressure of the mounting
sea.
This progress, which was aided, Lieu
tenant Bogusch said tonight, by empty
ing the diver's tanks, was the greatest
factor in saving the lives of her crew,
however, as her decks were too wave
swept at the greater depth 1 1 iermii
her crew to crawl out long enouen to
haul aboard a liuov line shot aboard by
coast guardsmen from the Eureka sta
tion. Pulling out in their cutter, the
coast guardsmen finally made fast a
line and the last man splashed to sate
ty through the surf at sis o'clock.
Except for bruises and slipht suf
fering from chlorine gas arising from a
leaking storage battery, the escape!
injury.
Thousands of residents of this city
and surrounding towns witnessed tin
rescue. The coast guard crew and vol
unteers were aided by men of the V. S.
S. Cheyenne, the mother ship under
whose convoy the H-l, H-2 and ll-:l
were preceding from Puget Sound to
winter quarters at San Dif-so. The
Cheyenne, unable to aid from the water
side, came into the harbor with her
j other charges and sent men across the
sand.
With Lieutenant Kogusch. who
achieved note by his wcrk in salvag
ing the F-4 nt Honolulu, was Lieu
tenant I F. Zemke. Commander W.
It. Howe, of the Cheyenne, is in
charge of the Flotilla.
In a dense fog the H-3 strrcp a
sand spit early today while cruising
down the coast from Puget Sound on
her way to the Mare Island navy
vard in San Francisco bav. She was
accomtianied by the T". S. S. Cbey-
(Continued on rase Two) -
mumping nor the careenings tly
experienced, with hundreds of pounds
of explosives In their heads. The H-2
heeled at times to 1T degrees.
"Th" gas was kind of bad." said
one, "and we got bumped enough, but
v.bat we watohed while we were hang
ing on was those torpedoes. I-t one
of them drop out of its frame and it
was Rood bye boat and good bye
crew.'
Lieutenant liogusch said that it
was the discipline maintained by his
men in the face of tiiese ciemorali.itu;
conditions that enabled them all to
save their lives. He said he had
taken soundings a few moments be
fore his vessel struck and had found
no reason to suspect the shore so
clcre.
n
CANADIAN CRAFT IS I
I NOT SO FORTUNATE I
HALIFAX. N. S Dec. 14. A
telephone messatre to the Morning
Chronicle from Shelburne, N. st
rays that the missing Canadian
torpedo boat Grilse is limping into
the harbor at that place. All the
officers of the Grilse and all but
six members of the crew are re
ported to be safe. The missing
I members of the shlp-'s company
I perished In the storm.
.
generally was regarded ns hoelcs.-l"
against their cause went as far us it
did. On the other hand, their op
ponents declare an opportunity !
have the house vote on the ?ssuo m
evitnlifc' means a defeat for suffra-;-.
which will settle the qucslion na
tionally for m inv years.
The vote in favor of reporting the
resolution, 11 to s, docs not icpii-vent
the sentiment of the committee on
the Issue. Some of its bitterest ene
mies voted favorably, most of them
confident of seeing it beaten on thu
floor and desirous of cmieting charges
of "smothering" in committee1.
One element of the committee,
headed bv Representative laoe of
j Missouri, MHitilit violently t i proven!.
action.
