r 1 Vy ' WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight IHjl
i per, $32.5034.00. T J and pr0bably Saturday, Rising Tern- If i
j -- , perature. Ijfjl
g J m FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER,; '. - I 1
Forty-slxth Year No. 310. Price Flvo Cents. OHnRN PITY. UTAH. FRIDAY FVFNIlMf: HFCFMRFR Ti 1Q1C rr , r. . u . n.., iu,u Sri 111
I Rumor of Universal Disarmament
II Causes Crash in Wheat and Stocks 1
3r
(United States Will Act
Cautiously in Taking
Steps in Peace Move
3 Government WI Do Nothing to Imperil Its In-
i fbence for Good Will Keep iff Close Touch
1 1 With Situation Lloyd-George's
yj Statement Awaited.
ind:f Athens, Thursday, Dec. 14, 4:15 p. m., via London,
Dec. 15, 4:40 p. m. The demands of the entente allies, pre
sented to the Greek government today were in the nature of
Sjfc; an ultimatum. All Greek troops are to be withdrawn from
h' Thessaly, according to the demands and only a certain number
jH t of soldiers are to be concentrated in Peloponnesus.
j'-jj The demands for reparation for the events of December
1 an when fighting took place between entente landing
lvl forces and Greek troops are to be formulated later.
ijjsy London; Dec. 5, 3 : 1 0 p. m. The Greek government has
accepted the ultimatum presented by the entente allies, says a
SkI despatch from Athens to the Central News Agency.
Jffi. Washington, Dec. 15. President
fl4 Wilson probably will not finally deter
mine on any formal steps in connec-
.gpi tion with the peace proposals of the
i central powers until after David
i ':, Lloyd-George, the British prime minis-
so'-vs tQI" as snoen n tne bouse o com-
t-y.i , mons Tuesday. .
i ,In the meantime, through the Amer
ican diplomatic representatives Tri the
' i capitals of the entente powers, the
'P'-'i American government will keep in
in.,. ii close touch with the situation.
'' if America Must Move Cautiously.
f-j ii No formal comment was forthcom-
. i' ing today either from the White
House or the state department. It is
known to be the view of most of the
r cabinet members that the American
government should move cautiously
$ and do nothing to imperil its influ-
'M enco for peace.
vj President Wilson is known to at-
h . lach great importance to the possi-
3 bility of establishing an association of
m nations to maintain peace. He out-
lined in definite terms the procedure
Ep he would take in initiating a peace
movement, in the course of a speech
K delivered here last May before the
in League to Enforce Peace. At that
iy time the president said:
h "If it should be dur privilege to
H suggest, or initiate the movement for
peace among the nations now at war,
fflfl I am sure that the people of the
WM United States would wish their gov-
37S ; ernment to move along these lines:
-m 'I "First, such a settlement with re-
"'vjj f Sard to their own immediate interests
,W 1 as tho belligerents may agree upon.
.- ." Wo have nothing material of any kind
Jm ; to ask for ourselves and are quite
4 aware that we are in no sense, or de-
M 7 greo, parties to the present quarrel.
I 9 . Oui interest is only in peace and its
t "Second, a universal association of
. the nations to maintain tie inviolate
t security of tho highways of the seas
for the common and unhindered use
vi of all the nations of the world and to
hi prevent any war begun either con
l trary to treaty covenants, or without
f; warning and full submission of the
causes to tlie opinion of the world, a
, virtual guarantee of territorial integ
m rity and political independence."
I' Rights of All People,
fj In the same peech the president
I- said the American people believed
t'; fundamentally that every peoplo have
Ri a right to chooso the sovereignty un
if der which they shall live and that the
. . small states of tho world have a right
1 ' to enjoy tho sarao respect for their
Vi sovereignty" and for their territorial
tj integrity that great and powerful na
il tions expect and insist upon.
' Secretary Lansing early today held
'" his first personal conference with
h President Wilson sinco the peace pro
b posals of the Central Powers were
K mado public. It was said tho formal
n notes from Germany and Austria
K might go forward before night and
& necessarily, in view of the probability
k that the president would take no in
U dependent action until after Lloyd-
Georgo has spoken,'' in tho house of
Ft commons, they probably will bo ao
T companled only by formal notes of
ii transmittal.
H: London, Dec. 15, 10:45 a m. Cora-
fl .' menting upon tho brief statement
made yesterday in the house of com
H mons by Andrew Bonar Law, chancel
B " lor of the exchequer, regarding Ger
H : mans peace offer, tho Manchester
Guardian says: .
1 "Two things appear to emerge from
; this brief nnd dignified statement:
H First, that the government will not
H ? refuse to consider on their merits any
proposals, or statements which will
K" be made by them second, they will
H I not allow the general character of tho
I terms on which they alone will con
H I sent to conclude peace to remain in
doubt That is as it should be."
"Let us be as resolute as the case
demands upon the terms which we
deem necessary to insist, but let it
never be said that we refused in mere
insolence, or levity to listen to the
very name of peace."
German Peace Note.
Washington, Dec. 15. An unofficial
translation of Germany's note to the
entente nations proposing peace ne
gotiations, made here from a copy
of the official French text obtained
from a diplomatic source, shows that,
while accurate in substance, the pre
viously published version had many
of the document's sentences out of
their proper order.
The translation follows:
"The most terrible war which his
tory has known has beon ravaging a
large part oi the world for two years
find a half. This calamity, which the
bonds of thousands of years of a com
mon civilization have not been able
to prevent, is injuring humanity in Its
most precious heritage. It threatens
to plunge into its ruins the moral and
material progress which was the pride
of Europe at the dawn of the twen
tieth century.
"In this struggle Germany and her
allies Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and
Turkey, have given proof of their un
conquerable strength by achieving im
portant successes over adversaries su
perior in numbers and in war ma
terial. Their unshaken, lines resist the
continuous attacks of the armies of
their adversaries. The last diversion
in tho Balkans has been speedily and
victoriously thwarted. Recent events 1
have demonstrated that the prolonga
tion of tho war would not be able to
break their power of resistance. On
the other hand, the general situation
justifies them in hoping for further
successes.
Do not Seek to Annihilate.
"It was to defend their existence
and their freedom of nntional develop
ments that the four allied powers were
forced to take up arms. The achieve
ments of their armies have not altered
this purpose. Not for a single in
stant have they departed from 'the
conviction that respect for the right
of otier nations Is in no way incom
patible with legitimate interests. They
do not seok to shatter, or annihilate
their adversaries.
"Conscious of their military and
economic power and ready, if neces
sary, to continue to the very end the
struggle which has been forced upon
them, but Inspired at tho same time
with the desire to stop the flow of
blood and to put an end to the hor
rors of war, tho four allied powers
propose to entor forthwith into nego
tiations for peace. They are convinced
that tho proposals which they will
submit and which aim to insure the
existence, tho honor and tho develop
ment of their people will bo appro
priated to servo as a basis for the
re-establlshment of a permanent
peace.
"If, despite this offer of peace and
reconciliation the struggle should go
on, the four allied powers are deter
mined to continue it to tho end, dls
claiminK solemnly before human ft v
and history responsibility therefor."
Pope to Issue Xmas Note.
London, Dec. 15, 11:36 a. m. A
Zurich dispatch to tho Tageblatt of
Berlin as forwarded to Copenhagen by
the Exchange Telegraph company
says that in response to the peace
note of the central powers to tho
Vatican tho pope in a few days will
issue a Christmas proclamation to all
the belligerents.
Reichstag Special Meeting.
Copenhagen, Dec. 15, via London,
1:58 p. m. The Borlin Lokal Anzolger
Bays it learns that Major Ernst Bas
sermann of the National Liberals, In
the reichstag has proposed a meet
ing of the reichstag finance committee
in order to discuss tho foreign poli
tical situation. The utmost import
ance is attached to the proposed meet
ing, which is to be secret, the news
paper adds.
00
AMERICA FACING
RESPONSIBILITY
Duty of Leading Movement for
Universal Peace to Insure
Stability.
WARS MUST CEASE
United- States Must Be Ready
to Initiate International
Action.
Washington, Dec. 15. America is
confronted with the responsibility and
duty of leading the movement for uni
versal peace and to insure that such
wars as that of the present shall no
longer disturb tho world, Governor
Arthur Capper of Kansas today told
the .conference of governors here.
"Upon the American people," Gov
ernor Capper said, "rests the respon
sibility and duty of leadership in the
movement for permanent peace
among civilized nations. It is no
Quixotic enterprise to which we are
called. We are not meddlers in the
affairs of others when we say that
war must cease. The inter-dependence
of other nations, the bounds of com
merce and finance, entirely aside
from the dictates of common human
ity, make it impossible for this plague
of 'war to exist anywhere upon the
globe without seriously affecting both
our International relations and our do
mestic affairs.
"The close of the world war strikes
the hour for the organization among
civilized nations of an actual federa
tion with the purpose of maintaining
a world peace. And America is the
one nation which can propose such
a federation and effect its organiza
tion. Tho task is hopeless without us.
This is because of our non-participation
in tho present struggle and be
cause of the magnitude of the nation
and its resources."
on
LABOR QUESTIONS
BEINGJEBATED
Washington, Doc. 15. Laoor ques
tions involving legality of union or
ganizations their right to "peaceably
picket," and liberty of contract were
argued today before tho supreme
court.
In two West Virginia cases the
court reviewed decrees of Federal
Judge Dayton finding the United Mine
Workers union and tho American Flint
Glass Workers' union, illegal organ
izations and also combinations in re
straint of trado under the Shorman
law. Judge Dayton issued broad in
junctions respectively to the Hitch
man Coal nnd Coke company of Wheel
ing, West Va against the Mino Work
ers' officers, including Secretary Wil
son of tho department of labor, who
was formerly secretary-treasurer and
to tho Eagle Glass and Manufactur
ing company of Wellsburg, West Va.,
against the glaBS workers' organizn-
4
IIUU,
Appeal to Supreme Court.
Judgo Dayton's degrees and injunc
tions were annulled by tho fourth
circuit court of appeals and tho cor
poration's injunction suits ordered dis
missed. The companies then appealed
to the supremo court.
Labor interests have been watch
ing both cases, moro recently because
questions are prosented regarding con
tractual freedom similar to thlse in
the Adamson law tost case. Both
Wost Virginia companies, operating
"open shop," have contracts with em
ployes not to join a union. They
sought to restrain union solicitation,
oven by peaceable persuasion and ar
gument of their workmen, contending
that such solicitation interferes with
constitutional liberty of contract. The
circuit court upheld union rights to
peaceably "picket" and persuade such
workmen without intimidation or violence.
WHEAT CRASHES
DOWN ON BOARD
1
Fall Due to Break in New York
Stock Market and Universal
Disarmament Reports.
Chicago, Dec. 15. (For news page)
Wheat crashed down in value today
on account of peace reports. First
sales showed a fall In some cases
of 8 5-8 cents a bushel, May wheat
touching ?1.58 as against $1.66 1-4 to
$1.66 5-8 at yesterday's finish.
Prices varied as much as five cents
at the same instant in different parts
of the pit. The opening range for
May, the chief trading option, spread
all the way from $1.58 to $1.63. Waves
of selling accompanied the. exciting
break in values.
Besides the German embassy state
ment referring to a limitation of arm
ament, the smash in wheat prices was
due largely to yesterday's and this
morning's break jn the New York
stockmarket. Yesterday's big decline
in New York came too late to have
much influence her until today.
Wheat Declines Eighteen Cents.
The decline at the outset this morn
ing in wheat carried prices down about
eighteen cents a bushel since the first
peace offer came from Berlin.
After the openinc. still lower prices
were reached, the extreme being $1.57
1-2 for May. Then the pressure be
came relatively exhausted and houses
that of late have been free sellers
took to the buying side. Rallies, how
ever, were not well maintained.
Within an hour losses had been
widened to 10 5-8c a bushel. May
wheat tumbled to $1.56 on the clos
ing out of accounts In which margins
had been swallowed up completely.
As compared with prices a month ago,
the market at this stage was down
more than forty-.five cents a bushel In
the December deliver.
Acute weakness developed in the
last quarter hour and the market col
lapsed to $1.53 1-2 for May, the low
est level of the day, 13 l-8c under yes
terday's finish. The close was wild
at a net decline of 10 1-4 to 12 5-8c,
with May at $1.54 to 1.55 1-2 and July
at $1.31 3-4 to 1.32 1-4.
00
RAIL AND WATER
TRAFFIC DEBATED
I j
Speakers at Central States
Coherence Present Problems
From All Viewpoints.
B I G DEMONSTRATION
Prominent Men to Send Trans
Continental Telephone Mes
sages at Banquet Tonight.
Evansville, Ind., Dec. 15. The rail
road commission's view, the labor side
and the government's viewpoint on
transportation problems were on the
program for discussion today at the
second day's session of the first an
conference on rail and. water trans
portation which began hero yester
day. Among the speakers were Clifford
Thbrno, chairman of tho board of
railway commissioners of Iowa, W. G.
Lee, president of tho Brotherhood of
Railway Trainmen, and Frank P.
Walsh former chairman of the federal
commission on industrial relations.
A trans-continental telephone dem
onstration will be hadat the, banquet
tonight this city being connected with
Now York, Washington, Cblcaga and
San Francisco for an exchange of
greetings between men of national
prominence and local individuals.
Vice President Marshall, Secretaries
Lansing and DanielB and Governor
Hiram Johnson of California are
anfong those who will 'end messages
over the wire.
BILL PROHIBITS
LIQUOR "ADS"
Transmission of Advertise
ments by Mail, Except to
Licensed Dealers, Not
Allowed.
Washington, Dec. 15. A bill pro
hibiting the transmission of liquor
advertisements by mail to any one
except licensed liquor doalera or
agents, was favorably: reported today
by the house postoffice' committee.
It is aimed at tho so-called mail order
liquor business in dry territory.
MORE LOSSES IN
MARKET SHARES
Special Stocks Drop One to
Four Points Rails Again
Sustaining Feature.
New York, Dec. 15. Liquidation of
special stocks were resumed at to
day's opening with further losses of
two to four points in shipping shares,
Continental Can, New York Airbrake,
Utah Copper, Lackawanna Steel and
International Paper.
United States Steel was the center
of interest on its initial offering of
20,000 shares at 112 to 113 1-4 as
against yesterday's final quotations of
113 5-8.
Rails wore again tho chief sustain
ing features, with marked strength In
Reading and Southern Railway.
Further pressure against prominent
stocks created fresh unsettlement in
the second hour, steel falling from 114
to 110 5-8, or more than two points
under yesterday's low. Other promi
nent issues also fell under minimums
of that session.
Further sweeping losses were made
la the second hour, Bethlehem Steel,
which sold extra dividend of 7 1-2 per
cent, declining 23 1-2 points to 540.
United States Steel, Crucible Steel,
Republic Iron, Central Leather, Inter
national Paper, Marine preferred and
Utah and Kennlcott Coppers were 3
to 7 points under yesterday's final
figures, with 11 1-2 for Industrial Al
cohol. New York, Dec. 15. The stock mar
ket experienced another feverish ses
sion of violent liquidation today, cred.
ited to continued apprehension over
the effect of possible peace on tho
earnings of munitions, steel and kin
dred concerns which have profited by
tho war.
Losses in the stocks of these com
panies ranged from 3 to 12 points un.
der yesterday's lowest quotations with
32 1-2 for Bethlehem Steel. It was
the third severe downward move
ment since the announcement of the
German peace proposals Tuesday.
United States Steel was again the
outstanding feature, almost 400,000
shares changing hands before noon
at an extremo loss of 4 1-2 points.
Greater weakness was shown by In
dustrial Alcohol, Marines, Atlantic,
Gulf and West Indies, Central Leath
er, Lackawanna Steel, Utah Copper
and International Paper. Sales to
noon totalled 1,300,000 shares.
Rallies of 1 to 3 points were mado
in the early afternoon but the market
continued extremely sensitive.
Rallies of 3 to 5 points were made
by Marines, United States and Lacka
wanna Steels in the afternoon. Lack,
awanna Steel extended its loss to 47-1-2
points. Rails were inactive and
more regular.
Extreme recoveries of 2 to 3 points
in the leaders due mainly to a retreat
ing movement of the bears caused, a
general readjustment of values and
some notoworthy gains in the latter
trading.
Today's business exceeded 2,400,000
shares.
nn
LIQUOR TRADE IN
CONSTERNATION
Paris. Dec. 15. The decision of the
government during the remanider of
tho war of alcoholic beverages with
the exception of wines and boor has
caused consternation In the liquor
trade although it is but the logical
culmination of a series of restrictive
measures which have been taken
since the outbreak of hostilities such
as tho suppression of absynthe In
March, 1915, the doubling of the tax
on spirits last Juno and the grant
ing to private individuals of the priv
ilege of distilling spirts from the pro
duce of their own lands.
M. Grlzard, president of the Saloon
Keepers' Federation, and M. Delroso,
president of the Provision Dealers' as
sociation declare the new measure 1
will bring ruin to 380,000 keepers now
mobilized and fighting for their coun-
trv nnr? Via ft will rlrv itn nnfl nf fhfi
sources of national wealth. On the
other side, it is pointed out that, aside
from consideration of the health of
the peoplo, alcohol is needed urgently
in the manufacture of munitions, for
which large quantities are being im
ported. The amount expended for
this purpose in tho present year is
about 130,000,000 francB compared
with 30,000.000 francs last year.
M. Riemain, secretary of the Anti
Alcohol league ,says the prohibition
measure will not Injure tho saloon
keepers but on the other hand will
benefit them as they would got small
profit with the doubled taxes on 'spir
its while tho sale of wine, beer, cider,
tea and coffee will yield handsome
returns. The distillers' will lose noth
ing, M. Riemain contends, as their
whole output will bo taken for indus
trial purposes.
SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES j
FACE RUSSO RUMANIAN ii
ARMIES IN MOLDAVIA j j
Whole Front Along Western Moldavian Mountains 1 1
in Imminent Danger-Capture of Buzeu I
Breaks Defensive Line. II
Further developments regarding the
peace proposals of Germany and her
allies are awaiting the consultations
and decisions of the entente govern
ments aB to official action to be taken.
Probably nothing definite in his
connection may be expected before
next week, a probable occasion being
the appearance of David Lloyd-George,
the new British premier, before the
House of commons on Tuesday.
Possible serious consequences not
only for the Rumanians but for the
Russians are implied in today's an
nouncement from Berlin of the cap
ture of the Rumanian town of Buzeu.
Military writers have virtually as
sumed it to be the Russo-Ruraanian
intention to make a defensive stand
along the line of the Buzeu river, run.
ning in a general easterly direction
not far from the southern border of
Moldavia, Rumania's northern prov
ince. If the taking of Buzeu, as ap
pears, breaks this Important defensive
line, the whole Russo-Rumanlan line
, along the western Moldavian moun
tains seems endangered by flanking.
Stress has been laid by military
commentators on the Importance of
thig line to the Russians as it has
been pointed to as one necessary to
be held, if the Russian front in the
southern Carpathians and even In
Galicia was to be preserved. More
over, it has been indicated, the falling
back of the Russian front northward
in Moldavia beyond the mouth of the
Danube at Galata would open Bessara
bia to possible invasion by the Teu
tonic armies.
Berlin reports an abortive offensive
by the French in the Verdun region.
Attacks made In attempts to re-take
the positions lost by the French on
Hill 304, west of the Meuse, were re
pulsed, It is declared, as were assaults
on German positions on Pepper Ridge
and near Fort Hardaumont, east to
the river.
Rumanian Premier Resigns.
London, Dec. 15, 1:35 p. m. The res
ignation of Premier Bratiano of Ru
mania is reported by the Budapest
newspaper Avillag as quoted in an
Exhange Telegraph despatch from Copenhagen.
Russians Continue Retreat.
Berlin., Dec. 15. By Wireless to Say
ville. The Russians are continuing
their retreat in Rumania, burning vil
lages as they go, today's official an-
nouncement reports. The Rumanian
town of Buzeu has been captured by
the invaders.
In the last two days 4,000 more
prisoners have been taken. Additional
Bulgarian forces have crossed the
Danube near Futesti, across the river
from Tchernavodal
The statement reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: Rus
sian attacks yesterday on the Transyl
vania front for the most part failed
as on the preceding days. The enemy
succeeded in gaining a footing on one
height.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen: Burning villages mark
ihe way through Great Wallachia
along which tho Russians retreated
The allied (Teutonic) troops under the
most unfavorable weather conditions
are rivalling each other on the plain to
prevent tho enemy from getting any
further rest on his march. In the
mountains, Uie enemy offered resist
ance in advanced positions. These
were pierced.
"Buzeu has been captured.
"The Ninth Army reported as a re
sult of tho operations for yesterday
and the day before the capture of 4,
000 prisoners.
Near Futesti stronger Bulgarian
forces crossed the Danube."
DUTCH STILL IN
FEAR OF TROUBLE
V
London, Dec. 15, 9 a. m. Premier
Cort van dor Linden, addressing the
lower house of tho Dutch parliament
yesterday, Bald that tho Dutch gov-ernment-
still believes there is danger
of Holland being dragged Into the
war, according to a despatch to Reu. '.
ter's from The Hague. Tho premier !
was speaking on the budget and said 3
tho country's munitions supply had i
considerably increased and was daily
increasing and that, in view of tho in
ternational situation It was unavolda-
bio that sufficient military forces be :
kept at the immediate disposal of tho 1 i
government. ' (
DRASTIC RULES II
GO liOEFFEET
Railroads Install Emergency KEj
Measures to Relieve Short- BE
age of Freight Cars. IS
CHARGE HIGH RENTALS
Rise in Prices Due to Conges- mm
tion and Alleged Activities ill
of Speculators. ' 111
Washington, Dec. 15. Drastic regu- HI
lations adopted by the railroads went , mrnm
into effect today with the approval of j III
the Interstate Commerce Commission 1
as emergency measures to relieve HI
the shortage of freight cars, which for j
months has been a brake on the coun. ' nil
try's commerce and affected the high HI I
cost of living. The remedy Is the Ml
railroads' own, proposed by the car ' SSI
service commission of tho American Hfl
Railway Association and formally ap- Kl
proved by the federal commission. The
first regulation provides that a con- l
slgnee may have the usual two days II
to unload a car and thereafter demur- Wm
rage shall be charged at the rate of H
SI for the first day; $2 for tho sec
ond, S3 for the third, and $5 for the
fourth and each succeeding day. Here- M
tofore the charge has been uniformly l
$1 a day and many consignees, nota- , Ifl
bly automobile concerns and coal , MMM
dealers, are declared to have been H
glad to permit shipments to stand for Wm
long periods because the penalty was
so small that It compared favorable H
with warehouse charges. 'Ml
Another regulation Increases the t
rate of rent paid to other railroads
from 45 to 75 cents per car .or about D
seventy percent. Some eastern roads
are said to have from 5,000 to 10,000 Ml
foreign cars of a single type. The
order is expected to make serious dif
ficulties for some small roads which
never have had sufficient equipment
of their own.
Foreign cars on congested roads are H
said to have come almost wholly from
southern and western roads. Reports
to the Interstate Commerce Commis
sion show that they glut the railroad
yards and sidings of most eastern mMMm
lines and many in the middle west. iH
The trend of traffic because of the ,f
European demand for American goods
has been almost overwhelmingly to- IIIH
ward eastern seaports. 1HI
Cause of High Prices. BH
Tho rise in the price of coal is 'H
attributed almost wholly to the car jH
shortage aided by tho alleged activi- '
lies of speculators. An order for tho
return of coal cars to their owners. H
loaded or empty, was Issued several jH
weeks ago by the car service commis- f
sion to meet the scarcity of coal car-
In respect to the food situation tho
same condition is said to nave applied jl
although it is said to have been less
acute. Recent orders of the commis-
sion which provide that receiving
roads shall roturn box cars and refrig- iH
crating cars without delay to the jH
owning lines are said to be showing IH
effect now. ,H
Relief in Middle West. IH
In railroad yards of the middle west HH
the relief of congestion under these !H
and related orders is said to have 'jH
been marked. Thus, at Detroit, with- H
in 1 a month the number of loaded jllH
cars in the railroad yards awaiting ilH
unloading is said to have fallen from 'H
255.000 to 15,000. 'iH
Further consideration of tho prob- jH
lems presented by tho shortage of '
cars is the subject of a conference ijH
her today of officials of eastern roads. 'jH
A meeting of some of the chief ship- ,HH
pers of the country will bo held here jl
week.
RELIGIOUS TEACHING PER- MMmM
MITTED. H
Quaretaro, Mexico, Deo. 15. Via H
Mexico City. The constitutional as- H
3embly decided late tonight to permit H
representatives of any religious dc- H
aomination to teach in private schools. H
A recent despatch from Jassy, the H
provisional capital of Rumania, said H
ill tho members of tho Rumania cab- H
inet had resigned with the exception B
if the premier. H
