THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1875.
VOL. VII. NO. 33. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, DECEMBER 15, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
BELIEVED GREEKS r
HAVE ULTIMATUM "
11
London, Dec. 11.-Optimistic state.
ments issued by the Greek Royalist
government do not conceal the fact
that the crisis In the Greek situation
has come. A break may occur in twen
ty-four hours.
Reuter's Athens correspondent says:
"It Is understood on reliable an
thority that an entente ultimatum
will be presented to Greece today.
"The British and Russian ministers
had an audience with King Constan
tine and subsequently the king sum- (
moned the American minister.
"The personal baggage of the en
tente diplomats has been sent to P1.
raeus."
.Garrett Dropers, the American min
ister, is said to have been in confer
ence with the king more than an
hour. t
RAIDER IS SEEN IN AZORES
New York, Dec. 11.-A heavily arm
ed steamship has been sighted about
500 miles north of the Azores in the
middle of the.steamship lane, accord
ing to a wireless warning flashed to I
merchant vessels of the entente al
lies by a British or French cruiser
lying off Sandy Hook.
The message, which was sent first in
English and then repeated in Italian,
said:
"Sighted 7 a. m., Dec. 4, latitude 4
48.25 north, and longitude 27.57 west. 1
a steamer of about 4,000 tons, 350 feet
long and 45 feet beam. Vessel well
armed and fitted with torpedo tubes.
Had one short, broad funnel and two
masts. Steamer probably high speed.
Take all precautions."
DEUTSCHLAND IS HOME AGAIN
Berlin, Dec. 11.-The German com
mercial submarine Deutschland, com
pleting a quick trip home from the
United States, arrived here off the
mouth of the Weser.
Will Return in January.
New London, Conn., Dec. 11.-The
Deutschland will make another trip to
this port within a few weeks, accord
ing to a statement by Paul G. L. 1il
ken, vice president of the Eastern
Forwarding company, American agents
fot the undersea craft.
RUSSIANS REPORT
GERMANS CHECKED
London, Dec. 11.-Little fighting ex
cept by the artillery is in progress on
any of the fronts except Roumania.
There the Teutonic allies, according
to Berlin, still are making progress
against the Roumanians in Eastern
Wallachia. Petrograd asserts, how
ever, that the Roumanians northeast
of Bucharest along the road running
from Ploechti to Buzeu have turned
on the offensive and driven the Aus
tro-Germans back westward.
To the north along the Transylva
nia-Roumanian frontier, Petrograd re
ports progress for the Russian troops
and Berlin admits the capture by the
Russians of a height south of the
Trotus valley.
Semi-official advices from Berlin say
the Roumanians have lost approxi
mately 112,000 men made prisoners
since Roumania's entry -into the way
and suffered casualties estiu ated at
a o"ut e0.0000.
Aside from a German attack in the
"osges legion, neat Col Sainte Marie,
which was repulsel by the I-rn It
and tie recapture by the icrteans or
a sap in Champagne. only bo)mbard
mcnts and minor engagement' have
tai:en place along the line in France
and Belgium.
Berlin reports the repulse by the
Teutonic allies of a heavy attack by
the entente troops north and east of
lionastir, Serbia, while Paris reports
the capture by the British south of
Seres, Greece, of Turkish positions.
Roumanians Join Invaders.
London, Dec. 11.-A dispatch to the
Daily Telegraph from Ualatz, Rou
mania, says: "Certain Roumanian
conservative politicians with Germano
phile tendencies are remaining with
the enemy, aiming at the deposition of
King Ferdinand and proclaiming his
brother, Prince Wilhelm of Hohensol
lern, king. Wilhelm is with the invad
ing army and issued a proclamation at
Craiova declaring himself to be the
rightful heir to the Roumanian
throne."
Round Butte School Notes
Several of our pupils have been ab
sent since the Thanksgiving holidays
on account of sickness. All are again
present with the exception of Harry
Dimon, who expects to enter again
Monday.
The following pupils have been
neither absent nor tardy the past
month: Miss Dissett's room-Cyril
Ackerman, Ross Miller, Paul Anderson,
Evelyn Parkinson, Helen Ryla, Gladys
Gibson, Eva Fisher, Wilma Murray,
Veldon Desaussure, James Cone, Mar
tin McKittrick, Alma Rinke, Ruth
Swanson, Violet Osberg, Anna Myrle
Haegg, Vashti Desaussure.
Miss Mayer's room-John Cone, Eva
Simonis, Floyd Rice, Herbert Hansen,
Daniel Syla, Ethel Dimon, Alice Hard
ing, Edna Swanson, Joe Cone, Albert
Swanson, Ray Johns, Maud Hall, Ileen
Corr, Marie Hall, Glennie Johns, Nellie
Rinke, Paul Middleton, Joslin Haegg,
Lloyd Murray, Elva Rinke, Dorothy
Haegg, Blanche Hall, Martha Murray.
We will have a Christmas program
on Friday evening, December 22, com
mencing at 8 o'clock. Everyone is
urged to be on time, thus avoiding con
fusion during the program.
Regular meeting of Equity on Satur
day night, Dec. 23. Business session
will open at 8 o'clock sharp. Impor
tant business on hand. Splendid social
time promised at close of business
meeting.
The pupils of our school raised a vol
untary subscription of $10.81 for the
Montana Children's Home society,
which was sent as a Thanksgiving gift.
We now have a horse barn large
enough to accommodate fourteen double
teams. The farmers appreciate this
convenience on these cold nights. Our
community is justly proud of this latest
improvement at our school.
Blast Is Fatal to Two.
Pittsburg, Dec. 11.-Two men were
killed by an explosion which wrecked
the storage house of the Aetna Chem
ical company at Fort Pitt, two miles
west of Carnegie, this county. The
cause has not been determined.
ABOUT OUT OF TIME
IN FIXINO SENTENCE
Miss Edith Colby, convicted last week
of the murder of A. C. Thomas, was
sentenced on Saturday last by Judge
McCulloch to serve 10 years in the
state prison at Deer Lodge. The jury
in the case fixed her punishment at
not less than 10 nor more than 12 years,
which fact probably accounts for even
the ten year sentence. Judge McCul
loch was disqualified to sit in the trial
of the case, but considered himself cap
able of pronouncing the sentence and
fixing the length thereof so far as the
jury allowed.
On motion of B. K. Wheeler, special
prosecutor in the Colby case, the
charge of murder against A. S. Ains
worth in connection with the Thomas
murder, was dismissed. Ainsworth
was the owner of the paper on which
Miss Colby worked and was charged
with responsibility for the murder. In
sufficient evidence to convict is given
as the cause for dismissing the charge
against him.
CHICAGO DIVORCE FIGURES
Chicago, Dec. 11.-One divorce was
granted to every eight marriage
licenses issued here in 1915, according
to figures announced by the country
welfare bureau. In this period 31,309
licenses were issued and 4,116 divorces
were granted.
According to the report a large
number of divorces are obtained
through collusion, as indicated by 92
per cent of the decrees entered after
the defendants had failed to appear
in court. Three-fourths of the com
plainants were women, the report
said.
WAX NAMED IN NEW ROLE
New York, Dec. 11.--Charles H.
Wax, alias "Oliver Osborne," confess
ed breaker of women's hearts and
selfatyled enchanter, elusive party to
Rae Tanzer's $50,000 suit against
James Osborne, developed a new role
when an irate grocer wro refused to
give his name, charged that Wax em
beazled $2,400 from his wife.
JILTED SUITOR SUSPECTED
Fessenden. N. D., Dec. 11.-A series
of attacks on Miss Bertha Miller of
Ellendale, N. D., a teacher in Eigh
lenheim, this county, was brought to
a climax when an axe suspended over
the schoolhouse door dropped on her
shoulder as she entered the building.
The girl escaped serious injury. Of
ficials believe the work is that of a
disappointed suitor.
Will You Do Your Share?
The Pioneer in its seven years of existence has re
frained from making undue calls on its patrons for the pay
ment of past due and due accounts. But the time has ar
rived when we need the money and must earnestly ask each
and every one knowing themselves indebted to the Pioneer,
either for subscriptions, advertising or job printing, to call
in and settle at the earliest possible date. An explanation
of this call may not be out of place and we will make it con
cise and to the point: In order to keep pace with the de
velopment of this great valley and the growth of Ronan and
the increased business that will necessarily follow, the Pio
neer has purchased one of the most up to date typesetting
machines on the market, at a cost of $2,500. The machine
was shipped from the factory on December 4 and will doubt
less arrive and be in operation in this office by Christmas
a valuable and much appreciated Christmas gift. With the
machine we expect to be able to give our readers a better
paper, our advertisers better service and our customers for
commercial printing quick action and entire satisfaction.
The machine must be paid for within thirty days after
its arrival and we therefore need the money. Most of the
accounts owing the Pioneer are small, from one dollar to
two, three, five, or in some instances more, but in the ag
gregate amount to a good many dollars. We know each one
of you will help to the extent of your ability. It is not the
intention of the Pioneer to distress any one, but we shall
appreciate an effort on your part to help us at least a por
tion of the amount due.
When the new machine is installed you are cordially in
vited to come in and see it in operation.
BANDIT TELLS
OBJECT OF WAR
El Paso, Tex., Dec. 11.-A manifes
to, issued by Francisco Villa and
printed at San Andreas, Chibu yi
copies of which were received here,
set forth Villa's reasons for waging
war in Mexico. The document, which
is signed by Villa as "commander-in
chief," emphasizes the slogan, "Mex
ico for Mexicans."
"All the peoples of the earth," the
document begins, "are capable in de
termined moments of the greatest
sacrifices when they see their national
integrity menaced and when their
rights as free men have been jeopar'
dized.
"Of this we have an example in the
titanic conflagration of Europe, and
particularly in heroic Belgium.
"Our fatherland also has arrived at
l the solemn moment when we must op
pose the unjustified invasion by our
eternal enemies, the barbarians of
the North."
Villa regrets that Mexico cannot
be unified because of the Carranza
partisans, whom lie calls "renegade
patriots."
Villa's declaration of principles in
dlude: Annulment of all Carranza
concessions; repudiation of all foreign
claims for damages.
Only those foreigners of continuous
residence in the country for twenty
five years and who have become nat
uralized citizens for the same period,
wiil be allowed to acquire property
in Mexico.
All foreign property is confiscated.
All railroads and mines are included
in the confiscation, and, to stimulate
Mexican industry, it is made unlawful
to trade with the United States. To
this end all rail and wire connections
will be cut eighteen miles below the
boundary.
Minneapolis, Dec. 11.--Two well
dressed men entered a fuel oflice here I
in broad daylight, held up two tmen at
the point of revolvers, stole $1,0011,
walked their victims to a box car 11W
yards away from the building, locked
them in the box ear, and escaped.
The robbery, one of the most dar
ing in Minneapolis in years, was dis
covered when Ralph A. Leighton,
credit man for the Leighton-Campbell
company, which has several fuel
yards in Minneapolis, and P. H. John
son, manager of the company's yard
and office at 1401 Fifth street south,
were liberated from the box car where
they had been for an hour.
Tokio, Dec. 11.-Field Marshal
Prince Iwao Oyama, commander-in
chief of the Manchurian army of Ja
pan, during the Russo-Japanese war,
is dead.
Field Marshal Prince Oyama pos
sessed the highest military and civil
honors in the gift of the emperor.
Prince Oyama was seventy-four years
old. In the war with Russia he acted
as commander-in-chief and added to
his reputation by a series of victorieW
A princedom was bestowed upon hims
for his achievements.
PEACE OFFER
FROM SERMANY
Of the warring nations in Europe,
Germany is the first to come forth
with overtures, or an offer, of peace.
On December 12 Germany and her
allies officially proposed to enter into
peace negotiations to terminate the
war.
Germany's note to the hostile govern
ments, as read by the chancellor before
the reichstag, in part, is as follows: a
"The most terrific war ever exper
ienced in history has been ranging for
the past two years and a half over a
large part of the world-a catastrophe
which thousands of years of common
civilization was unable to prevent and
which injures the most precious achieve
ments of humanity.
"Our aims are not to shatter nor
annihilate our adversaries. In spite of
our consciousness of our military and
economic strength and our readiness to
continue the war (which was forced
upon us) until the bitter end if neces
sary, at the same time, prompted by
the desire to avoid further bloodshed
and make an end to the atrocities of
war, the four allied powers propose to
enter forthwith into peace negotia
tions."
No terms upon which she offers peace
is given.
Public sentiment in England is said
to be against the peace proposal, it be
ing considered a shrewd political trick.
But whether it is or not, England and
her allies can hardly afford to turn
down the ;proposal and take the re
sponsibility of a continuance of the
bloodshed and plunder that will neces
sarily follow. The world has been
crying for peace and now that an offer
is presented it should he carefully con
sidered.
Don't Blame the Farmer
In a recent address before the Na
tional Grange and the American Asso
ciation of Farmers' Institute Workers
at Washington, President Woodrow
Wilson expressed the hope that the
American farmers would not permit
the recurrence of present high prices
of farm products and food materials.
The farmer is not to blame for present
conditions.
The farmer is but a single factor in
production. He is perhaps the most
consistent and dependable of the many
factors in production. The seasons
vary. Rains prevent harvests and
damage hay and grain. Early frosts
prevent the maturing of crops, Severe
winteas increase the consumption of
food, stock losses and the price of
meats. Drouth reduces the yields.
The farmer cannot control tiese
thiggs. He is not to blame.
When high wages and great booms
in business attract laborers to the city,
and only bums and hobos are left to the
employ of farmers, and even these too
few for the seeding and harvest, the
farmer is not to blame. If high wages
to artisans and craftsmen in town are
reflected in increased cost of productioh
of farm staples, whose fault is it?
Only in higher prices is there an added
inducement to produce more.
To fear bread famine is folly. The
resources of the land are scarcely
touched. Millions of acres are idle,
producing nothing, Other millions pro
duce only a small fraction of what they
are able. More land, more labor, bet
ter methods of cultivation, will multi
ply many times the present product.
Before starving, millions of city work
ers would help cultivate lands to in
crease the food product. It is uneco
nomic to produce food greatly in excess
of the needs. A great surplus would
entail a loss to producers. Only a lit
tle more than the amount needed is
economically desirable. The larger the
proportion of a country's population is
engaged in manufacture and commerce
the better for farmers and the higher
the prices for foods.
Farmers didn't start the European
war. Don't blame them for that, yet
who can deny that it has had an enor
mous influence on the cost of living.
Farmers sold eggs at 15c and 20c
per dozen. Ask cold storage managers,
who bought them, why 60c is demanded
for those eggs now.
Don't blame farmers for car short
age. Perhaps stock manipulation has
sometimes displaced railway manage
ment and operation.
A consideration of marketing and the
cost of living will be prominent in the
Farmers' Week program at Bozeman,
January 29 to February 3.
Farmers Are Warned
Some weeks ago J. R. Campbell pub
lished a letter warning Missoula county
farmers from having anything to do
with the Tri-State Rural Credit asso
ciation until after thoroughly investi
gating the association and the manner
in which it does business. This week
Mr. Campbell has received advices
from Fergus county which serve to
substantiate him in issuing the warn
s ink. The association is believed to
o have representatives working in this
e county and our farmer friends will do
well to investigate quite thoroughly
before transacting any business with
them.
; TO REVIVE COMMERCIAL
CLUB MEE1ING IS CALLED
Realizing the importance to the town
and surrounding country of an active
working organization in Ronan to look
after the many interests that are sure
to present themselves during the com
ing year, a mass meeting of the cit
izens of Ronan and adjacent territory
has been called to meet in Scearce hall
on next Tuesday night, December 19.
To be sure, Ronan now has a resem
blance of a commercial club. But it is
only a resemblance. A meeting has
not been held since the oldest member
remembereth not. No one in particular
is to blame for the inactivity of the
club, but that it has been and is now
dead as a smelt will be freely admitted.
Therefore the call for a mass meeting,
the object being to revive interest and
form a new organization. You, per
sonally, and your friends, are-urged to
be on hand and assist in the organiza
tion of a club that will be alive to the
welfare of the valley and the town.
Right now, for the coming year, such
a club can be of great benefit to
us all. Lend your assistance by your
prcsence next Tuesday night.
Correspondents Wanted
With the installation of our new
linograph, one of the most improved
typesetting machines on the market,
we will be fully equipped to handle a
much larger amount of local news mat
ter than heretofore. We can then
handle the news-if we can get it. In
order to do this we must have depend
able correspondents in the different
localities of the Mission valley-at St.
Ignatius, Horte, D'Aste, Leon, Moiese,
one in the CharIot country, and another
to the northwest of Ronan, and possibly
others. In fact, we want the news
from every locality. Anyone in these
localities who will undertake the job,
please write or call upon us when in
Ronan, and we will endeavor to make
some satisfactory arrangements and
terms. Our machine will be installed
by January 1st and the service should
start by that time.
Submarine Home.
The German submarine, Deutchland,
arrived home last Sunday from its
recent trip to America. This is the
second round trip this boat has made,
On the last voyage home it carried a
cargo valued nt $2,000,000.'
NEW LEADER HAS
GREATER POWEll
London, Dec. 11.-The official list of
the new ministry issued here follows.
the unofficial forecasts with two oil
three minor changes.
Mr. Lloyd-George, Lord Milner, Earl
Curzon, Andrew Bonar Law and Ar
thur Henderson form what is offcial*
ly termed the war cabinet, while the
others, who ordinarily have been desig
nated as cabinet ministers, are called
heads of departments.
I An important point in this novel
organization is that it concentrates far
more power in the hands of the prime
minister than the British system has
ever known before.
Premier Near Dictator.
Mr. Lloyd-George's proposals to
Premier Asquith were for a war coun.
cil of which the premier should not be
ta member, although he should have
- the power of passing on its work. Mr.
Lloyd-George has not hesitated to
place himself in the position more
e closely resembling a dictatorship than
he was willing to give his predecessor.
The war cabinet will hold daily sesa
sions, directing the prosecution of the
- war, and the freedom of Mr. Lloyds
a George, Lord Milner and Mr. Hendetr-,
son from the departmental duties will
allow them to devote all their time to
e the war council, the work of the ex
e chequer and government leadership.
The complexion of the new govern
ment is twelve Liberals, fifteen Uniopn,
ists, three Laborites and the presi
dents of the boards of trade and edur
cation and the shipping controllef,
. who have been attached to no par:
ties. r
A meeting of the privy council will
1o be held for the swearing in of the
" ministers.
,r Preneh to Act Too.
k Paris, Dec. 11.-A semi-official note
,5 issued says: "It is expected that .a
Io definite decision will be.reached Tues
n. day, resulting in a diminution it {bt
to number oft istbers of the cAblwetSd
is the constittion of a restricted national
lo defense committee, as in Engind."
ly
h UNIONS ASK RAISE
FOR U. S. WORKERS
Washington, Dec. 11.-An organized
effort directed by the American Fed
eration of Labor to induce congress to
grant wage and salary increases to
all employes of the United States gov
ernment, from president down to the
humblest laborer, was planned at a
meeting here presided over by Sam
uel Compers, president of the federa
tion.
Resolutions were adopted at the
meeting, attended by representatives
of all organizations of federal em
playes affiliated with the federation,
setting forth that government salaries
have not kept pace with the cost of
necessities of life, and directing that
congress be petitioned to grant in
creases ranging from 10 to 331/ per
cent to government employes, wheth
er in or out of the civil service.
QUITS IN MIDST OF PLAY
Chicago Opera Chorus Strikes for In
crease in Pay.
Chicago, Dec. 11.-Forty-three sing
ers, French, Italian, Russian and Eng
lish, the male chorus of the Chicago
brand Opera company-overwhelmed.
they said by the high cost of living,.
went on strike just before their en
trance in the second act of "Cotter
darmmerung."
Cleofonte Campinini, general direc
tor, refused to meet their demands and
the opera proceeded without the male
chorus. The strikers said that while
It had heed widely advertised that
they were paid $35 a week, they act.
ually received only $24 a week.
Mayor Thompson in Wreck.
Chicago, Dec. 11.-Mayor William
Hale Thompson is being congratulat
ed over his escape from injury when
his automobile collided in Lincoln
park with a motorcar driven by Har
ry Reynolds, a broker. The mayor's
limousine was thrown thirty feet and
badly wrecked, but none of the oeus.,
pants, including the mayor, Ms,
Thompson and a woman guest, was
iajured.
Bull Sells for $21,500.
Portland, Ore., Dec. 9.-Finderne
Mutual Faine Valdassa, a junior year.
ling Holstein bull, consigned by Bern.
hard Meyer of Finderne, N. J., sold in
the ring at the sixth Pacific Interna
tional Live Stock show for $21,500,
the highest price ever paid on the
Pacific coast.
