The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenwortn. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 50
THE BIG MILL WILL RUN NOT YEAR
Great Northern Lumber Company Will Be the Name Under
New Management.
FROM TEN TO FIFTEEN YEARS RUN GUARANTEED
Plenty of Timber to Keep Mill Running Night and Day-All Logging Will
Bt- Done on the Railroad—Newest Logging Equipment-
Over 400 Men Will Be Employed.
For some time it has been known
that the Lamb-Davis Lumber Co. was
nndergoing a reorganization preparatory
to again engage in the cutting; of lum
ber. Mr. Gardner, the general mana
ger for the company returned from the
east Monday, after an absence of some
five or six weeks. He brought back the
information that the reorganization was
effected and that Mr. Lafayette Lamb
retires from the manaeement and the
company. Also the Echo is authorized
to state that financial arrangements have
been entered into whereby the mill will
be able to run not less than ten and pro
bably fifteen years, beginning as early
in the spring as weather conditions will
permit and running continuously, night |
and day, thru the summer, until com
pelled to shut down in the fall. After;
a careful survey of the timber and
stumpage by competent and reliable
timber estimaters the company is as
sured of an ample supply of logs for the
period indicated above. In truth, the |
timber holdings of the comoany aprox
imate six hundred million million feet, j
in addition to which options are held,
and others being acquired, which will
materially increase the stumpage, so j
that the company feels there is no need ;
to aprehend a shortage of logs. Be- '
cause it has been decided to do all the
logging on the railroad logging opera-
COUNCIT^ROCCCDINGS
There was a regular meeting of the
city council Tuesday evening and the
following members responded to the j
roll call, Featherstone, Hale, Kugel
man. Miller and Reynolds.
After the reading of minutes the fol
lowing bills were allowed:
T. C. Yokum, draying t 7.50
T. L. & W. C., street lights.. 126.00
Leav. Supply Co. auto supplies 8.22
Leav. Report, printing ballots. S.SO
Leav. Merc. Co., supplies 9.00
J. E. Faulkner, rent for booth 6.25
C. J. Nowlan, map of city 15.00
F. A. Reynolds, special police 5.00
Wm. Elliott, election board .. 6.00
Mrs. G. T. Walker, elec. b'rd 6.00
Edith Pitschow, election board 6.00
Frieda Gartner 6.00
Mrs. D. S. More " 6.00
Robt Coleman 6.00
Mrs. M. O. Logan " 6.00
Mrs. C. Eckhart " 6.00
Mrs. S. Roberts " 6.00
Hattie Hathaway " 6.00
Mrs. A. T. Eichmeyer 6.00
Mrs. Wm. Cahail 6.00
Mr. Art Franklin 6.00
Ethel Maston 6.00
Dorothy Hawk 6.00
Mutual Merc. Co. supplies... 16.00
Williams Transfer, draying ... 12 25
L. J. Howerton, draying . 4^75
Total, $304.72
Mayor Day protested against the
payment of the bill of F. A. Reynolds
on the ground that he had not been
consulted when Mr. Reynolds was
deputized, by Marshal Teshera, to help
make the seizures of hard cider at the
Pastime pool room. Council allowed
the bill but the mayor may still refuse
to sign the warrant.
A deputation of Front street business
men, headed by F. E. Carlquist, who
acted as spokesman, filed in at this
stage in the proceedings and requested
that the hours of the city marshal be
changed so that he will be on duty
from 6:00 p. m. till 6:00 a. m. It
«v also suggested that police powers
be conferred on Water Commissioner
Talbert, who could be summoned in
case ot necessity while Marshal Te
Xeavenwoctb ißcho
tion can not begin until some contem
| plated improvements in the road and
] its equipment is made. At least two
j additional engines will be purchased,
i and the plans call for seventy additional
I logging cars. Also there will be a
! boarding train of some ten 40 and SO
foot cars, fully equipped with all mod
ern conveniences and steam heated
thruout.
Jas. S. Quigley, formerly with the
i Florence Lumber Co., at Florence,
Wash., will have-charge of the logging
operations of the company. His years
of experience in wrestling with logs in
the state of Washington it is believed
qualify him for the job he has nnder
taken. Mr. Geo. L. Gardner is con
tinued as general manager. He says
under the new ownership and plans of
operation the company will employ in
the mill and its other activities upwards
of 400 men.
With no entangling alliances, all its
energies devoted to making and selling
lumber there is every reason for believ
ing that the Great Northern Lumber Co.
is about to enter on an extensive era
of operation. With an encouraging
financial outlook, the prospect of a
large demand for lumber at remunerat
ive prices there is no apparent reason
why the big mill should not earn a pro
fit for its owners.
shera was off duty. Both suggestions
will be carried out.
Ordinance No. 177, which makes a
permit necessary for the purchase of
alcohol, was passed by council and
presented to Mayor Day for his signa
ture. He demurred and said he would
take the ten days allowed by law to
consider whether he would approve or
veto it.
The ordinance which the mayor ve
toed recently, offering a reward for in
formation in bootlegging and gambling
cases, was again introduced and giyen
its first reading. It requires five votes
to carry an ordinance over the Mayor's
veto.
The bond of Marshal Teshera for
SSOO was accepted and filed.
The votes of the recent city election
was canvassed and the following were
officially declared elected:
Mayor, W. L. Hale; treasurer, L.
W. Woodrow; clerk, A. R. Brown;
attorney, L. J. Nelson.
Councilmen—First ward, W. T.
Vanßrocklin; second ward, H. H. War
ner; third ward, Jas. T. Wunder; at
large, W. W. Wilder.
While the canvass of the vote was in
progress S. A. Potter, the defeated can
didate for mayor, appeared and asked
City Attorney Nelson for information in
regard to the proper procedure in in
stituting a contest against the successful
candidate, W. L. Hale. Altho he has
been twice defeated —in the primaries
and at the regular election —he says
his friends are not satisfied with the
results, intimating that they may ask
for a recount. If any action is taken
it may possibly result in another election
and this would mean considerable use
expense to the city.
As Mr. Wilder who was elected
councilman-at-large will leave the city
it will be necessary to elect a man to
fill his place. This will be one of the
first duties of the new council.
The production of sugar beet seed
in the United States is rapidly in
creasing.
Spokane brick Uyers ask increase
from |6 to $7 a day.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, December 15, 1916
Making the Other fellow Believe What
You Do Not Want Yourself.
The caption not ineptly defines di
plomacy.
In our opinion peace will not evolve
out of Germany's shrewd, opportune
and diplomatique peace proposition.
Just now the entente powers are spar
ring for time while they prepare a ful
minating, and diplomatic reply, by
asking Germany for a bill of particulars.
Unless the bill of particulars modify the
obvious meaning of the peace propo
sal the war will go on indefinitely. The
German peace terms were meant quite
as much for German home consump
tion as for perusal and reflection by the
peace-inclined, stay-at-home popula
tion of the allies. Some desperate
fighting will be done while the diplo
matic sparring goes on, and the war
will not end soon.
WASHINGTON STEEL &
IRON CO. MOVING TO COAST
Plant is Bang Dismantled and Will Be
Taken to Sedro Woolley. Wash.
Mr. 0. P. Moore, secretary of the
Washington Steel & Iron Co., and one
of the directors of the company, spent
Monday here, and in conversation with
a representative of this paper said men
were at work dismantling the plant
preparatory to its removal to Sedro
Wooley, on the west coast, where the
company can get, says Mr. Moore,
cheap iron ore. The preseDt purpose
of those who hive the removal in
charge is to use the machinery in mak
ing pig iron.
Thus does another of Leavenworth'i
hopes of greatness vanish in thin air.
Ten years ago, when the company was
speeding considerable money here, the'
information was given out that Leatwn
worth would become famous as the
only place where magnetite iron ore
could be converted into the highest
grade of tool steel. Some of us in
dulged the hope that there might grow
up another Pittsburg. Alas, and alas.
Thus do dreams fade away like mist
before the sun.
Complimentary Dance and
Shower for Prof. McDaniels
Prof. McDaniels, who had the mis-,
fortune to lose his home and contents
by fire two weeks ago was given a com
plimentary dance in Firemen's hall last
Saturday evening. Mesdames J. C.
Davis, Bert Hegler and G W. Hoxsey
were instrumental in getting up the
affair and were later joined by the
members of the Degree of Honor and
the Maccabees, with both of which or
ders the McDaniels family is affiliated.
Before the dance was over many of his
friends who took no part in the dancing
nevertheless attended and each brought
some useful household article. Mr.
McDaniel was overcome by his emo
ions at this evidence of helpfulness on
the part of his many friends and only
had to say he was very grateful.
0. L S. Elects Officers
The Cascade chapter of the O. E. S.
held their regular meeting Wednesday
evening and elected the following offi
cers. Worthy Matron, Mrs. R. B.
Field; Worthy Patron, Frank Motteler:
Matron, Mrs. Anna Geerds; Secretary,
Mrs. Frank Motteler; Treasurer, Mrs.
J. D. Whegler; Conductress, Mrs. John
Ewing; Associate Conductress, Mrs.
Wm. Tegtmeier.
ONE POINT SETTLED BY PEACE MOVE
If anybody had any doubt of the de
pressing effect of peace on food stuffs,
principally wheat, of course, and mun
ition making shares, the experience of
the past few days ought to have dispel
led that doubt.
Also that a very large amount of our
present prosperity hinges on the con
tinuation of the war, ha* been pretty
well settled.
A gift for your wife. Let it be flowers.
Phone Milot-MilU Wenatehee. Wash.
50-51
WAS IT A HOLD-UP OR A
RUTABAGA PARTY ROW?
Tool Bag Taken From Auto—Overcoat
Swiped—Store Door Left Open and
Man's Face Badly Bruised
Tuesday morning last there was an
awful story afloat about a bold hold-up
and the loss of money and jewelry.
Also a store door was found open and
some men had visions about the hold
up men trying to break into the Mutual
Mercantile Cos. store, Carlquist's jew
elry store and the bank. The lynx-eyed
reporter for the Bingtown Howler never
had a juiceier morsel to found a story on
than was thrust on this purveyor of news
last Tuesday mornine. Somehow, the
more the reporter probed the less he
was certain about anything. The first
thing he learned was that early Monday
evening there was a hard cider party,
or words to that effect, somewhere near
about. There is also reason to suspect
that a lady, perhaps ladies, are in some
way mixed ud in a Rutabaga party held
somewhere, sometime, Monday night.
The story that shocked everybody
Tuesday morning was to the effect that
Mr. E. K. Berry, employed in the
Rutherford Mercautile store, was held
up about one o'clock Monday night
by three bold foot-pads with guns in
their hands, and relieved of $32, 830,
$16 or $2 and a diamond pin, and that
during the process of the hold-up Mr.
Berry was badly beaten up by the thugs
who relieved biro of his money. There
was quite a pool of blood on the side
walk near the Leavenworth Mercantile
Co.'s store and traces of blood leading
to the Oxford Hotel. The proprietor
of the Oxford hotel says three men
brought Mr. Berry to his house shortly
{after 12 o'clock and took him to a
room and put him to bed, and then
sent for a doctor, saying come and take
care of a man who is badly hurt. This
story is corroberated by Lester Shipley,
night call boy at the depot, who says
he saw three men. Mr. Berry between
them, trying to hold him up, on
the sidewalk in front of the Oxford
Hotel, about 12 o'clock. It seems
Dr. Judah answered the call and at
tended Berry, dressing his wounds,
which were slight. After putting Berry
to bed they telephoned for Dr. Judah.
Before the doctor arrived, however, two
of the three men J. F. Clark and H.
Crossman took their departure, leaving
Tom Malloe or Frank Thompson with
Berry. To the proprietor of the Oxford,
the men said Berry had fallen on the
icy sidewalk and bruised and skinned
his face. After dressing Berry's face
the Doctor returned to Front street
where he had left his car. About
this time A. C. Barclay, proprietor of
the hotel came on the scene and
learned he was out an overcoat. Also
Berry missed his diamond stick pin.
The trains were watched for the three
hold up men by officer Teshera who
decided they were still in Leavenworth
the following morning. He soon located
his men and arrested Malloe or Thomp
son as the man who had gotten off with
the overcoat and money. Being pressed
he confessed to taking the overcoat
and said he expressed it to his sister in
Spokane. The diamond stick pin was
also found in his possession. He was
placed in jail and on Thursday Magist
rate Graham imposed a fine of $100 for
taking the overcoat and bound him
oyer to the superior court on the charge
of larceny from the person. Deputy
Sheriff Huff was here and at once took
him to Wenatchee. Deputy Prosecut-
ing Attorney Pearson came here in com
pany with Huff to represent the state.
Clark and Crossman who were with
Berry when he was taken to the Oxford,
have not been charged with any wrong
doing.
When seen at his post ol duty
Mr. Berry wore that inscrutible smile
which never comes ofi, and said
in answer to an interrogatory by the re-
porter. "Don't mention it. I never lost
anything morejsubstanial than my tem
per and judgment." His face, tho,
showed slight evidence of having come
in contact with something more sub
stantial than the caress of a jularchus.
i>g#~
No Noble Peace Prize This Year
Very properly the committee having
in charge the awarding of the Nobel
peace prize has decided not to award a
peace prize, following the practice
adopted in 1913, since which time no
prize has been awarded for promoting
the peace of the world. For the past
two years all the prizes have gone to
those who have done most to make
war destructive, and who knows but,
unwittingly, they have done most to
promote peace by making war so de
structive and repulsive that the whole
world will turn its face against war.
HARD CIDER CONFISCATED
AT PASTIME POOL ROOM
Five Gallon Jugs Taken Last Week-Three
Barrels Taken Monday
On complaint of a young man who
found himself in the toils of the law
because carrying a jag, which he said
he acquired while drinking cider at the
Pastime pool rooms, the resort was en
tered one day last week and five one
gallon demijohns full of cider was taken
ia charge by Marshal Teshera. He
sent a sample of the cider to the
chemist of the Washington University,
who pronounced it hard cider, con
taining six and 28-100 per cent of al
cohol. When this advice was received
the first of this week Marshal Teshera
went to the Pastime pool room and
took in charge three barrels of the
same cider contained in the jugs. The
haul is now at the city hall in charge
of the marshal waiting the decision of
the court.
It is not believed that it was the in
tention of Mr. Hutchings to violate
the law. He bought the cider from
J. M. Duffy, a short time ago and has
sold it openly under the impression
that he was entirely within his rights.
F. H. HutchiDgs plead guilty and
was fined $5 and costs by Magistrate
Graham, amounting to 815.85. The
fine was placed at a nominal amount
for the reason that it did not appear
that Mr. Hutchings was wilfully violat
ing the law in selling the hard cider.
Evidently he did not know just how
hard it was.
Passed Bogus Check Saturday—Arrested
and Sentenced Monday
Tom Shannon passed a bogus check
on the Leavenworth Mercantile Co. last
Saturday, Was arrested in Everett Sat
urday evening and brought back to
Leavenworth Sunday and tried before
Magistrate Graham on the chirge of
petit larceny Monday and sentenced to
forty-one days in the county jail, where
he was at once taken. Shannon, who
is a mere youth, barely twenty years
old, has been working for C. W. Hast
ings at Nason creek. He came to
Leavenwonh Friday and claimed Hast
ings was oweing him about ten dollars
and says he intended that Hastings
should pay the check. He probably
heard of sight drafts and thought he
was raising money on that kind of fina
ncial instrument. Anyway, the court
took a lenient vitw of his offense and
let him of! with a light sentence.
Confer Royal Arch Degrees Here
Officers and members to the number
of twelve from Wenatehee Chapter No.
22, R. A. M. came here last Saturday
evening and in the local lodge rooms
conferred the Mark Mister and Past
Master degrees on E. V. Nelson of
Leavenworth and R. T. Jones Wenat
ehee. At the conclusion of the work
a social session was held and refresh
ments were served.
Club Meeting
The Kumtux Club met Tuesday after
noon at the home of Mrs. A. G. Mc-
Keown. After tne business session,
interesting papers were read. At the
close of the program, the hostess served
Tea. The next meeting will be with
Mrs. Guy Hamilton January, the
second.
North Yakima —Several Yakima hop
growers have decided to take out yards
and sign (or beet sugar acreage.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
TO PREVENT SPREAD OF
RABIES OR HYDROPHOBIA
Unmuzzled Dogs are Ordered Killed—
Alarming Increase is Wholly
Due to Dogs
The following order has been sent
out from the state board of health to
the local health officials in the coun
ties named, and as Chelan county is
within the infected district we deem it
of enough importance to reprint the
order entire:
State of Washington
Department of Agriculture
To whom it may concern: —Whereat
the infectious disease rabies, or hydro
phobia, has appeared in this state and
is spreading with alarming rapidity, i
proper safe-guarding of the lives of the
public demands that every effort be
made to immediately check the pro
gress of the dread disease, fatal alike
to livestock or human. As this infec
tion is spread almost entirely by the
bite of rabid dogs it becomes of the
utmost importance that every dog not
closely confined be provided with and
caused to wear at all times a muzzle of
durable and safe construction until
such a time as the Commissioner of
Agriculture is convinced that the dan
ger is over.
Notice of Quarantine
The fact has been determined and
notice is hereby given that a conta
gious, communicable disease, known
as rabies or hydrophobia, exists in the
State of Washington.
Now, Therefore, I, H. T. Graves,
Acting Commissioner of Agriculture,
under authority conferred by Chapter
100, Laws 1915, do hereby quarantine
the entire counties of Yakima, Benton,
Kittitas, Grant, Franklin, Adams, Lin
coln, Douglas, Chelan and Spokane,
and establish the following rules aid
regulations:
1. All dogs running at large within
the boundaries of the counties herein
specified shall be properly and secure
ly muzzled so as to prevent their bi>
ing other dogs or animals, until such
time as this order may be revoked or
amended.
Provided, that this rule shall not
apply to dogs under leash or securely
confined on the premises of their
owner.
2. No dogs shall be transported or
moved from the territory hereinbefore
quarantined to any point outside the
quarantined area unless permission has
first been secured from the commis
sioner or his authorized agent.
PENALTY
Any owner, owners or agents who
wilfully violate or negligently allow this
quarantine or these rulss and regula
tions to be violated shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished by a
fine of not more than two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250) or be imprisoned
in the county jail for not more than
ninety (90) days.
Peace officers, under the provisions
of Section S, Chapter 100. Laws 1915,
are requested to assist in the enforce
ment of these rules and regulations
and to kill on sight every unmuzzled
dog found running at large.
Effective December 16. 1916.
H. T. Graves,
Acting Commissioner of Agriculture,
Olympia, Washington.
Northwestern Fruit Exchange
Of 2057 cars fruit shipt by this ex
change ud to Dec. Ist the exchange
had remitted in full to the growers lor
1552 cars of fruit, or upwards of 75% .
The average time between date of
shipment and date of full remittance
on the entire 1552 cars was 27 days.
The northwestern is making a reputa
tion with the fruit growers of Chelan
and Okanogan counties.
E. C. Booth on Way to England
Mrs. Booth has been advised that
her husband, who left here last spring
lor Calgary, Canada, there to join the
American legion for service in the
British army against Germany, is on hit
way to England, will eat his Christmas
dinner in Dundee. Scotland, with re
latives of Mrs. Booth.
