onlktn ffeMb
VOL. Lit
LIBERTY MISSISSIPPI, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 191 6.
NO. 36.
HARD TASK OF PICKING
ma v Wl
sjj ltft
jj
jaL - llC .iiiiiMii.i.ii'i:itiiii iii.nI
OERR15M of DARTMOUTH
The pigskin meadows gradually are
becoming peopled with youths who are
doing stunts that merit them consider
ation
for lobs on the mythical All- of
-."'
American elevens,
The achievements of Harry LeGore
of Vale, so far have given him ranking
turning the greatest halfbacklng per
sons on the profesh. There Isn't any
thing that LeGore cannot do and do
exceptionally well.
Andy Hastings, star Pittsburgh
buckfield, has shown with especial bril
liance so far. He was ranked by some
as an AU-Amerlcnn man In 1915. This
season he has played far beyond any
thing ever shown before. Unless he
slips back during the games to Corne
ll possibility remote to an extreme
Hustings will take unto himself n first
class job on the All-Star team.
Casey, the Harvard backfleld "find,"
Is ranked as "a second Mohan." But
how will Casey show when he Is put
to the Yale and Princeton tests. Hor-
wecn, another Crlmsonlte, Is being
touted strongly up In CambiWge for
his fine work. Then there Is Berry
the great Pennsy halfback, who, al
most unaided beat the powerful Penn
State crow.
McCrelght of Washington and Jeffer
son never a flashy player, has been ex
hibiting In a way this year that stamps
him as one of the really great. Mc
Laren of Pittsburgh Is another star;
a plunging halfback that reawakens
memories of "Wee Willie" Heston. 011
pluint, picked by many last season, Is
performing In the same dazzling man
ner for the Army this season. Tlb
bott of Princeton also has earned plen
ty of applause.
Sprafka of Minnesota stands out
Just now us one of the best halfbacks
In the West. He has been responsi
ble In the main for the great scoring
done so far by his team. Drlscoll of
Northwestern Is another whose work
bas scintillated. Hurley of Ohio state
has starred In every game and In ev
ery department of the game.
Among the other halfbacks and full
backs whose great work merits them
much thought are:
Mueller, Cornell ; Maulbetsch, Mich
igan; Macombe,-Illinois; Watklns, Col
gate; Pollard, Brown; DeHart, Pitts
burgh; Driggs, Princeton; Bingham,
Yale; HubbeU, Colgate; OerrUh, Dart
mouth; Thlelscher, Dartmouth; In
gram, Navy ; Nuss, W. & J., and Carl
son, Minnesota.
Turning to quarterbacks, one Is con
fronted Instantly with Long of Minne
sota. If nay "pivot man" has per
formed in a more remarkable way this
fear than Long, his name la unknown
Just now. He Is wizard-brainy, fast.
courageous, a grand kicker, and an un
canny runner.
Star quarterbacks nre rather scarce
In the East. Shlvcrlck of Cornell looks
like one of the quarterbacks In the
East, with Anderson of Colgate close
up. Purdy, Brown ; Meehan, Syracuse ;
Morrow, Pittsburgh; Robinson nml
Murray, Harvard J Eddy, Princeton,
, uud Btobbs, W. k 3. All are good men,
j'mt none lias Unshed his full iwwer so
ar.
Bob Peck, cnptnln of Pittsburgh, was
All-American center selection by
er Camp and about 9(j per cent of
ALL-STAR ELEVEN
DfJISCOLL tf NORTHWESTERN
the other critics last year. The Pan
ther leader's work to date makes It
look like re-election for him. Hansen
Minnesota size, up as the best man
M- .1 fk iV- tT .
u inr uui-uvereu in me wesi.
White and Schlachtcr, the 250 and
248-pound Syrncuse guards, looked like
a peerless pair until that Pitt game.
But the way they were forced to give
ground before the crashing attack of
the Panther backs has lowered their
stock. Dadum, Harvard; Petty, Illi
nois; Hancock, Wisconsin; Nourse,
Princeton; Gait, Yale; Ncely, Dart
mouth; Anderson, Cornell; Wlmberly,
W. & J. ; Barton, Colgate ; Sutherland,
Pittsburgh; Hogg, Princeton, and
Black of Yale, all have played far be
yond the average. Each must be con
sidered when the "picking" day ar
rives. An elghtcen-year-old youth named
Henry Is one of the leaders in the fight
for tackle choice. He Is the 225-pound
W. & J. linesman. Henry has been
smashing lines to ribbons this year and
despite his buck has been under most
of the punts. He Is fast, powerful and
fearless.
Among the other tackles who are
notched high are Wheeler of Harvard ;
Thnmhin of Pittsburgh: Wall and
Farnum of Brown; Horning of Col
gate ; Cotton of Dartmouth ; Jewett of
Cornell; Ward of Navy; Jackson of
Chicago ; Welmunn of Michigan ; uen
nett of Northwestern; Koch of Wis
consln; Mathews of Pennsy; McLean
of Prln "n and Seldel of rittsourgn
Thf battle for end positions Is a
mprrv one. It Involves Hlgglns of
Pen'i Htate f Ail-American caliber, a
yea ago; Bnswn of Minnesota; Brc
lof ago; both Yale wing men:
Harte of Harvard; Carlson of Pitts
burg; Hlghley of 1'ilnceton; Meyers.
Wisconsin ; C. Coolldge, Harvard ; Nlol
sen, Colgate; Whltehlll, W. & J.,
Dunne, Michigan.
So, you see, this business of pick
ing eleven men from that crop is go
ing to be quite a Job.
Illustrated Athletic Lectures.
Leland Stanford university will have
Illustrated lectures as an Integral part
of athletic training. This Is an upward
step In the Idea of courses of Instruc
tion for athletics Inaugurated by Klce
Templeton last year In connection with
track and field Instruction. Photo
graphs of champions past and present,
In nctlon, and moving pictures taken on
the college campus will be used.
Soccer Well Organized. '
The United States Football associa
tion the governing body of the soccer
sport In this country, comprises more
than twenty different associations.
Each state hus a governing council of
Its own, which Is entltlod to send a
delegate to tho annual natlonul con
ventions. Coach Invents Multiple Kick.
Conch Foster Snnford of Rutgers,
Who Is constantly Inventing new plays,
now has auother one known us tho
multiple kick. The ball Is passed to
two men, who hold It In their hands,
the third man Kicking the ball without
It touching tUe ground.
INVENTION OF SIGNALS
PENN
MILITARY COLLEGE ORIQ-
PRESENT SYSTEM.
Sprung Them on Princeton in 1888
and Won Game as Result Play
ers Outgeneraled Opponents
by Using Numbers.
Here Is a most Interesting article on
the origin of footbull signals by It.
W. Maxwell, the famous Swarthmore
all-Anierican guard of 1905 :
"Signals seem to be an absolutely
essential part of football, and yet It
was not until 1888 that they were In
vented. From the November day la
1809, when Rutgers and Princeton
pluyed the first game of football, until
1888, the colleges got along by using
systems which varied with every
eleven, letters being frequently used.
It was left to Pennsylvania Military
college to originate the present system
of numbers.
Springs Stirring Coup.
"It was on a chill November after
noon In 1888 that Pennsylvania .Mili
tary college flashed the number system
on the football world, and Incidentally
used the single signals as the means
of a coup whereby Princeton was
whipped at Chester by 0 to 0. The
numbers not only mystified Princeton,
but they so speeded up Penn Military's
play that It was' able to outrush the
Tigers at every stage of the game,
which was witnessed by more than
1,000. persons, a great football gather
ing for those days. From that day the
use of numbers for signals spread rap
idly.' "Few realize that Pennsylvania Mili
tary college once occupied a foremost
place in football. Nor do they realize
that the really 'big' games In that sec
tion 25 years ago were played between
Pennsylvania Military college and the
University of Pennsylvania.
"In defeating Princeton, Pennsyl
vania Military did not use trick plnys,
spring some new formations or work
the 'shoestring' stunt for the first time.
The players outgeneraled their oppo
nents, and the outgeneraling was done
by using a system of numbers for sig
nals. -Revolutionizes the Game.
"Football signals now being used by
all of the teams were used for the first
time In this contest. Princeton was
swept off her feet by the speedy play,
and was outclassed and outplayed. It
was the most successful 'coup d'etat'
ever sprung by a footbnll team. It
made such an Impression on Prince
ton that the coach adopted It for his
team, and within a year Yale, Harvard,
Pennsylvania and others also iook It
up. Penn also was defeated In that
same year. This revolutionized foot
ball." SPORTING
WORLD
The chief excuse for flaying hockey
seems to be to get a skate on.
Basketball Is a great game. It gives
a lot of youths an excuse for fighting.
"Benny" Knuff is managing a fighter,
Letting someone else do the hitting for
him.
Zulu Kid has sailed for England to
et Jimmy Wilde In London In De-
uiber.
lou never hear of a player being In
ntemnt for nuttlnn uD a rack.-1 n
mis court.
"Ball players are born, "not n "
declares a Western critic. Why '
It on the parents?
Ad Wolgast has claimed the world'
lightweight championship so often he
believes It himself.
There Is a chance that Roy Hartzoll,
utility player for the Yankees, may be
ii manager next season.
Wild Bill Donovan seems bent on
tightening his defense. See where he
has signed up Buckles.
Johnny Kllbnne declares he can
iuake 118 pounds and Is ready to meet
Kid Williams nt this weight
There Isn't anything in n name, after
all. For Instance, there's Helnie Groh.
He's been 5 feet 7 Inches for six years.
To many golfers the chief object In
the gnme seems to be to make us many
shots on the nineteenth hole ns possi
ble. t
Joliu McGrntv showed excellent Judg
ment In nursing Ferdle Schupp for
two years. He had experience In tu
toring Rube Marquard in the same
ray.
TRADING WRECKS OF MEN FROM WAR
PRISONS OF GERMANY AND RUSSIA
Correspondent Witnesses Repatriation of Teutons and Departure
of Russians Consumptives Selected by Germans From
Various Camps to Avoid Infecting Other
Released Captives.
By CYRIL BROWN,
Correspondent of New York Times.
(Carried by Submarine Deutschland.)
Sassnltz. I have experienced much
on many fronts, but never so poignant
ly the pure essenco of tragedy as
"when the dead awaken" the moment
when hopelessly war-damaged prison
ers are metamorphosed by the Illusory
hope of a new existence from dumb
brutes, deadened by long captivity and
physical misfortune, Into men again;
when they touch home soil, If they are
Germans or Austrlans, or leave the en
emy's shores forever If they are Rus
sians. Generally once, frequently three
times a week, this dramatic episode
is played on the strand of the Baltic
at the pleasant summer resort of Sass
nltz, on the emerald island of Ruegen,
five hours' sail from the Swedish port
of Trelleborg, when the good ship of
mercy, the Swedish Red Cross hospital
ship Aeolus, old seadog Captain Brand
commanding, brings Its pitiful freight
of exchanged prisoners from Russia
and loads a similar return cargo. Ow
lag to the general Russian offensive,
which so taxed the Russian strategic
railways that no rolling stock could be
spared for the shipment of prisoners
to Sweden, this humane exchange had
been suspended for several months,
but I was able to witness its resump
tion,
To get the complete picture you must
begin with a tour of this little, old
fashioned, staid seuslde town. The
summer girl has gone home to Berlin
and the provinces. The stony strand
Is deserted of happy children and
anxious grown-ups. (Deleted by cen
sor.) The venders of amber souvenirs
a specialty of Sassnltz of picture
postals, memorial shells and edibles
are boarding un their Dooms, save
for a few belated holidaying stragglers,
the modest seaside hotels nre dead-
yet your trained nose detects an un
mlstttkuble air of expectancy about
town. For this is exchange-prisoner
dny, an event In the life of this fortu
nate far-off community, where other
wise the waves of war cause hardly a
faint ripple. Native beauties young
girls and others of a more matronly
topography dressed in white, are hur
rying strandwnrd bearing bunches of
eurly fall flowers and of oak leaves
with which to decorate the returning
heroes.
An All-Tuberculosis Shipment
The Times correspondent meanwhile
visits the local music hall, where the
Russian prisoners to be exchanged are
bedded, having had a thorough en
forced rest preparatory to standing the
short but rough Baltic crossing to Swe
den. I find more Russians in the Vlk
torla hotel and other hotels nbout. 280
of them all victims of tuberculosis.
This arouses curiosity, but proves no
coincidence. They have been carefully
picked from the prison camps of Aus
tria and Germany for an all-tubercu
losis shipment sensible segregation
rather than to have a sprinkling of
white-plague sufferers Infecting
mixed shipment of cripples. These
poor wretches lie hacking and cough
ing, many obviously In advanced stages
of the disease, In cots on the floor and
stage of the music hall, their faces
are Impressive, hopeless. Captivity
has turned gray the unkempt hair and
beards of many; but there are also
broken youths, some mere boys. The
bulk of them
been shipped from
Austrlad tlfti
(deleted by tl
Hungarian Bin
i the Russians hrr
..ior) more Austr
email Bffsoiiers. fin.j
WAITRESS .- YEARS IS DEAD
Marie Trognon, Who Served Many
Notables In Popular Cafe, Suc
cumbs In Paris.
Paris. The Latin quarter, Paris,
and perhaps the world, lost a record
holder this week by the death of Ma
rie Trognon, waitress In a popular res
taurant on the students boulevard St.
Michel. This restaurant wns opened
for the exhibition of 1807, and Marie
Joined It as waitress and has re
mained with it 49 yars. Generations
of students have been served by her
and passed on to become members of
the academies, professors, celebrated
politicises or high functionaries of
state.
Their sons and grandsons have
taken their places and Marie used to
Bend her compliments to them when
vacation time came and her young cus
tomers were going home. Many of her
old customers came later to take n
meal at their old tables nnd Marie
would then praise the rising genera
tion to the post. She was full of recol
lections Of the war of 1870 and the
consequently exchange more Austro
Hungarlans than Germans.
The Austrlans nre sending home
their prisoners In good shape as to
equipment. A new pair of black leath
er boots stands nt the foot of each cot,
and beside them lies a new convict suit
of dark brown material, with a round
cup to match. The equipment fur
nished to returning Russian prisoners
wns formerly not so good, I learned;
there Is obviously a laudable desire to
Improve, however.
In a private room In the Vlktorla
hotel I meet and try to tnlk with
handful of Russian officers, the only
noticonsumptlves In the shipment, but
make little headway, as one Is a Cos
sack captnln, who does not speak Rus
sian, and all are Impervious to Broad
way German, bad French, and alleged
spamsn.
Town and Harbor Bedecked.
Voices outside proclaim that the
hospital. ship Aeolus has been sighted.
Armed German bandsmen, army and
navy officers, soldiers, sailors, towns
men, women, children, dogs and neu
tral correspondents are all hurrying
downhill to the strand as the small
Sassnltz Hafen railroad station, well
known to American tourists who have
voynged to or from Sweden by the
Trelleborg route. The Aeolus Is round
ing the long breakwater; at her fore
masthead she files the Red Cross flag,
and, like all neutral ships that travel
these precarious world-war waters she
has her national colon yellow cross
on blue field painted on her sides.
She also wears full gala flag dress;
but the little port Is flagged, so are the
great steamer ferries that transport
whole freight trains between Sweden
nnd Germany, and flagged, too, Is the
German trawler fleet within the break
water. The usual agitation that accompa
nies steamer arrivals tho world over
seizes those on shore, Including the
two score of white-dressed young girls
and matrons who garrison certain long,
low, gray sheds where flower-brightened
tables have been set for 300, In
cluding also the local landsturm band,
which goes Into battle formation be
side the landing stage; including also
certain German officers replete with a
sense of duty and Importance ; Includ
ing also the Inevitable prince who Is
to be the orator of the sad, happy oc
casion, and who, I dare say, is think
ing hard of those well-chosen words
he Is about to deliver. A pathetic
touch, It seems, that there are no
friends or relatives to welcome those
sorry, broken war tourists. And then
follow n few moments which even
hardened war correspondents won't
forget, as the little Swedish hospital
steamer creeps shoreward and moors
at the quay.
It Is as strange a ship's company as
you are likely ever to see docked. The
exchange prisoners are massed on the
fore and after decks, and line the
roil, some eagerly leaning over toward
land and liberty, others too far gone,
sunk In apathy from which seemingly
nothing can arouse them. The over
whelming majority are Austro-Hunga-riau
soldiers; there is a sprinkling of
officers and of Germans.
When they are within fifteen feet
of shore the landsturm band begins
playing the German national anthem,
"Hell dlr lm Siegeskrnnz," which Is
likewise "God Save the King" and "My
Country, 'Tis of Thee," those on shore
Joining In discordant chorus. It Is in
teresting to note how the magic of
; music stirs the
of the sorry
Commune, and eouit " tn" names
of any number of ministers, senators.
deputies, prefect., judK"8 and colonial
governors, on whom she bad walled
during their student days.
Human Benes 15,000 Years Old.
Wichita, Kan. Dr. J. P. Culver, an
old-time citizen of Wichita, who Is
here from St. Louis, declares that he
has tn his trunk bones of a human who
lived 15,000 years ago. Doctor Culver
found the bones while he was digging
n well In Baca county, Colorado, he de
clares. They were found nine feet be
low the surface of the earth and below
the "drift" or surface left by the gla
cier period. "They are 5,000 years
older than the bones found by the Lan
sing man," said the doctor.
A petrified honeycomb was recently
found by zinc miners In Oklahoma,
more than 200 feot below the surface
of the ground. Geologists who exam
ined the find say that the depth of the
stratum In which It was found and the
geological formation indicate that the
honeycomb was probably built about
2,000 years ago.
prisoner crew ; bum tsUttary discipline
slowly triumphs over physical and
mental suffering. The few Austrian
officers on the deck of tke Aeolus are
the first to salute and stand snappfly
at attention, though several are
propped on crutches, together with tke
sprinkling of German prisoners whose
iron discipline Is the quickest to re
assert Itself. The lame, halt and blind,
the one-armed, and one-legged, and the"
paralyzed, Including one hideously mis
shapen gargoyle hung between two
crutches these Germans all react as
one man to the patriotic air and
struggle to straighten up, and some of
them painfully succeed In stiffening
rigidly to parade posture nnd salute
their flag In regulation fashion, while
the worst damaged, for whom this Is
a physical impossibility, salute with
rigid heads, some only with their eyes.
The less damaged Austro-IIungarlan
soldiers (deleted by the censor) Joined
their German comrades In misfortune,
and were moved to spirited enthusiasm
when the Landsturm band next played
the Austrian national anthem, which
slowly affected even the most seriously
crippled and roused them from their
dead stupor. Austrian caps, one after
the other, were doffed; bared, bowed
heads were thrown bock again with
something of pride.
They were not allowed to come
ashore at once. There was still some
official ceremonial to be run off. While
women on shore tossed flowers, cigars,
and cigarettes to them, which the
physically able eagerly grabbed after,
the Swedish national anthem had still
to be played and sung as a deserved
tribute to the good neutral offices that
had made possible this humane ex
change of prisoners; the prince of
Putbus, groy-balred and gray-bearded,
and wearing the. field gray, uniform of
a colonel of Prussian Uhlans, blazing
with orders, there as the kaiser's per
sonal representative, and owning half
the Island of Ruegen, on which the pris
oners were about to land, had still to
mount an improvised rostrum bowered
with pine branches and deliver his ad
dress of welcome.
Then they were allowed to come
ashore. With the neatness of a long
practiced military evolution, German
ambulance men swarmed up the gang
plank, and two and two they led, mere
often carried,- the released prisoner
off the ship, set them on their feet and
led them to be presented to the prince
and his entourage, after which they
were placed In chairs about the tables
In the long dining sheds. Cigars,
cigarettes, picture postal cards and
German newspapers were distributed
among them; bunches of onk leaves
were fastened on them by enthusiastic
women; they were dined and wined
and beered to the limit, and enjoyed the
process hugely, but they were also re
quired to do some work. Soldiers of
the local garrison passed from table to
table, submitting printed lists and
photographs of missing German sol
diers and officers to them, which they
were asked to examine and, it they
could identify any of the names or
photographs, give any information pos
sible regarding the missing.
Then, one at a time, the exchanged
German prisoners were led out of the
dining room to a nearby dressing room
nnd there stripped of their worn uni
forms, which were replaced by brand
new equipment. The pride on their
faces us they limped back looking like
real soldiers again was worth noting,
and more than one looked as If he still
had a lot of fight left In him. It was
one of the most remarkable lightning
changes I had seen In the course of the
war.
Three hours later all were loaded
Into waiting hospital trains, the Ger
mans to be transported to a quarantine
hospital -in Bremen, the Austro-Hun-gurluus
- i ;'i!.'.lue stations on
German i . border, where they
will be .uul for an observation
period of IT days. Then they wil. a
allowed to return to their homes
To date, In round numbers .
Russians have been exchanged ..... .. fti
Sassnltz for 8,000 Austro-Hungarlans
and 2,000 Germans.
CLOTHS ON CHURCH BELL"
it
was Mute, .A!tl"r
Pulled the Rope
Hastytu Ceurth
Gumboro, Del. Church people at
Bryan's Cross Roads listened faithful
ly for the church bell for prayer meet
ing one night recently, and, falling to
hear It, went their various ways. In
the meantime Rev. Mr. Williams was
on band for the first prayer meeting
after the summer vacation. No ona
attended, and after he had waited for
some time he went home without the
meeting.
Investigation disclosed the fact that
someone had wrapped the church bell
with cloths, nnd while the sexton, old
nnd deaf, had pulled the rope with his
accustomed power, the hell gave forth
no sound, und no one knew that there
was a meeting.
With n yearly average temperature
below zero, Verkoyansek, In northeast-
I ern Siberia, Is believed to be the cold
I est -IhUftbltcd place la the world.
