The Caldwell Watchman
VOL. :,1 ('Ol'MIllA. , LA., FlillD).Y, ])E('EIM I.T , 19,111 N,)
RMANY MAKES
PEACE PROPOSAL
BMITS BASIS OF TERMS TO
REPRESENTATIVES OF NEU
TRAL COUNTRIES.
RLIN IS WILDLY EXCITED
ondon Shows a Decided Skepticism
and Does Not Look For an
Ir.mediate Stopping of
Hostilities.
Itorlin. --('hancellor von I irlt lan
ollweg on Tuesday proposed to the
epresoentatives of the Itniltd S1tates,
pain and Switzerland a ba .is for
eacl negotiations that would he ac
'epiable to Germany and asked that
hose proposals be presented to the
nations wit ii which Germany is at
War.
At the same time the Au:;trian.
Turkish and Bulgarian governments
made the same proposal through the I
nations representing their interests in
countries with which they are at war.
The proposals of Germany and her
allies were also transmitted to the
Vatican.
Germany proposes to enter upon
peace negotiations at once and to sus
pend hostilities during the negotla
tions.
The presentation of these notes to
the representatives of neutral govern
ments has created wild excitement
throughout Berlin and all of Germany,
and reports from Sofia, Vienna and
Constantinople show that the move is .
equally popular in those capitals. t
While neutral representatives are a
not willing to talk they indicate that
they hope this move is the beginning ai
of the end, and that hostilities will A
;stop in the near future.
London Is Skeptical.
London.--News that Berlin has pro
posed a basis for peace through the
rnetiam-bttedtgt'rcountrles has crest
ed a feeling of skepticism in govern- Ai
ment circles, and with the public. W
While it fay be several days before to
the proposal of Germany and her al
lies will be laid officially before the
NEnglish and other governments of the
allied nations, men in public life do ne
not hesitate to say they do not believe sa
the terms will in any way be accept- kJ
able to the Allies, or that hostilities Jo
will be stopped in the near future. fir
cre
To Probe Vote in Ohio,
Columbus, O.-Acting upon the re- wt
quest of Jas. S. Hatfield, chairman of
the Republican State Executive Com
mittee, Secretary of State Charles Q. ho
Hildebrant requested all county"
boards of election in the state to pre- m
serve the ballots east in the recent
election in Ohio to give opportunity
for an investigation of charges of ir- th
regularities and alleged fraud. to
bel
Embargo on News Print. we
Washington.-A bill designed to j
place a two-year embargo on exports of r
news print paper was introduced by Jo
Representative Campbell of Kansas wh
and referred to the Commerce Com- Th,
mittee. Penalties ranging from fines Oct
of $1,000 to $20,000 an imprisonment
of not more than 10 years would be
provided.
ami
He Leaves $49,566,895. sun
New York.-Charles W. Harkness, tak
who at the time of his death on May i n
1 last was said to be the third larg- Mai
eat holder of Standard Oil stock, left po
an estate worth $49,566,895. His i
brother, Edward S. Harkness, willed e
$36,182,000, is the chief beneficiary. sho
Suspend Lumber Rates, to
Washlngton.-The Interstate Com.
merce Commission suspended until
April 9 proposed increases in freight E
rates on hardwood lumber in car- gov
Joads from Louislana and Arkansas that
.points to Rochester, N. Y., and other killE
cities taking the same rate. .
by C
Ten Years For Miss Colby. ing
Thompson Palls. Mont.-Miss Edith the
Colby, a newspaper reporter, convict- y a
ed of second degree murder for shoot- the
ing A. C. Thomas, a politician, was
sentenced to serve 10 years in the
penitentiary. C
had
Medal to Mrs. Duryea. retal
Parls.-President Poincare has vote
awarded a gold medal to Mrs. Harry with
Duryea of New York for her services chain
during the last two years as head of Com;
an American Aid Commission for war ing i
victims. cal
plura
To Seize Farm Lands.
London.-In order better to secure
food supplies, King George has signed Ri
an order in council empowering the cott
Board of Agriculture to take over un- week
occupied or occupied land for cultl. Comi
ration. of Ri
SAVING THE MACEDOIOANS FROM STARVATION
·Ic"'"· .  .......- · .......
off. sý ">', ,. ,ý; ý;: :.,;ýa~~Ya~~41F ~ IRB~l~~:
xýýý' ;"' ý ýy ý ice.~~:~$& ~ Sp TS~dB~~~'t~B~1~b~l~~r8.~·il'
",,.,.N,^;,: J "p t . . ..Ti. ls'/.lB;] sB B E;' . vt.. . .:
... aSO..", "`. .... ... ... t.. .. .a ... .. .. .. .. .. u; .. .. . ... ' .. .. . . .. . . .......... . ý............,.. o. . ... . .. . . ,,, . .,. .. .
.: ? . ... ... ..... .. ,."f L ..":' ?l,,, .ý. "." ,.... "'+,:w ,...,t' ,,.;,., ..,,.,..,,,,.:;. ::., .. . . . . . .... . . ... . . . ... .. . .:.. . . . .. . . .. .".-". ..Y " ... . . " " "."ýY. . ".iA 'M. . .. . . . .1 :l . . . i .t... u ] . I . .
l.';wzziue Iprv\'ils in nzurtiertu .lat,luzdi. . u(1 the ztaee1 are beling i'etl by the F'rezich militatry kitchens. The
photograph shows a group of poor children wptittug around one of the kitchens for a meal.
4: r ··
* -
i ;U1~
I f .... ,
~ II H )rtktLru· Mazi ·IIII III
shwsagrupo pozcilde w, dta arun one-· ottekthnsfra
s in
'ar. AMERICAN STEAMER
the SHELLED AND SUNK
pon
SUS
Ula- NO WARNING WAS GIVEN AC
CORDING TO SURVIVORS AR
to RIVING AT NEW YORK.
ent
~ny,
nd New York.-The steamship John
is Lambert, listed in the maritime regis
ter as an American vessel, was shelled
are and sunk without warning by a Ger
hat man submarine off the Isle of Wight,
lag according to members of the crew,
vill Americans, who arrived here on the
French line steamship Espagne from
Bordeaux.
The John Lambert was one of 12
*he vessels built on the Great Lakes,
at- which the French agreed to purchase.
rn According to the arrivals, the vessel
c. was on its way to Havre for delivery
re to the French interests.
al- The attack took place at 4:30 p. m.,
he 26 miles south of the Isle of Wight,
he members of the crew said. The engi
do neer, Edward Harrison of this city,
Ve said the U-boat first made its presence
pt- known by sending a shell through the
Pes John Lambert's bridge and that the
firing continued during the time the
crew was taking to the boats, 12
shots in all being fired.
The crew, numbering 16, all of
re- whom arrived here without their cap
of tain, said they rowed 40 miles to the
m- French coast, being in the water 12
hours, and shortly after the John
ty Lambert went down they saw the sub
o- marine attack and sink two unidenti
t fied vessels-a steamship and a bark.
ty The John Lambert was the last of
r- the 12 Great Lakes craft to be taken
to France for delivery. Eighty mem
bers of the crews of four of them
were passengers on the Espagne.
to The Great Lakes and St. Lawrence
Transportation Company owned the
y John Lambert, of 1,550 tons gross.
Swhich was built in 1903 at Chicago.
n The vessel sailed from Montreal on
s October 20.
it
Ie Take Wood Pulp Census.
Washington.-A census of the
amount and cost of pulp wood cqn
sumed in the United States is to be
taken by the Federal Forest Reserve
Y in co-operation with the News Print
Manufacturers' Association, it was re- r
ported. The statistics are needed, it
s is explained, because of the scarcity
3 of pulp wood. Comparative figures
showing the total pulp wood consumn
ed for 1899 1909, 1914 and 1916 are 3
to be compiled. n
i Only Chinese Are Slain.
El Paso.--Reports telegraphed by
government agents to Washington e;
that a nuomber of foreigners had been
killed in Chihuahua City when Villa p
bandits occupied the town, are denied
by Gen. Jacinto B. Trevino, command
ing Carranza forces, wuo reoccupied
the capital. He telegraphed that "on
ly a few Chinese were killed during a
the time Villa occupied L.ae city."
Want No Recount Now.
Concord, N. H.-A petition which
had been filed at the office of the see- th
retary of state for the recount of the
vote for presidential electors was
withdrawn by Philip H. Faulkner, th
chairman of the Republican State
Committee. The reason for withdraw
ing the petition was not stated. Off
clal returns gave President Wilson a
plurality of 56.
No Eggs and Turkey. CI
Richmond, Va.-An absolute boy
cott on eggs and turkeys for two sa
weeks was declared by the Executive ba
Committee of the Housewives League
of Richmond. o
ho
UK DEUTSCHLANDI SEE
IN GERMAN WATERS
COMPLETES QUICK TRIP HOME
FROM UNITED STATES--MADE
ha PASSAGE IN 19 DAYS.
is
ed
, BEATS FORMER RECORD
he
m Commercial Submarine Completes Its
Second Round Trip to America Af
12 ter Again Running the A'ied
9, Blockade-$2,000,000 Cargo,
T Berlin.-The German commercial
submarine Deutschland, completing a
L' quick voyage home from the United I
t, States, arrived off the mouth of the
Weser.
' The arrival of the Dutschland at a
oe German port marks the successful r
10 completion of the second round trip I
1e of the commercial undersea boat to c
1e the United States.
pn her voyage just finished she c
made the passage in 19 days, having I
left New London on November 21.
This bettered considerably the rec- v
e ord of her previous eastward trip. I
2 which, starting from Baltimore, took t
n her 23 days. Her two westward voy- f
ages occupied respectively 16 days I
and 21 days.
The Deutschland, which is the only a
commercial craft of her type that has a
succeeded in reaching America from i1
Germany, was forced to make two r,
° starts from New London. b
On her first attempt on November IN
17, she collided with an escorting tug ti
and had to put back to port.
The Deutschland on both of her tl
trips brought valuable cargoes, chief- al
ly of dyes and chemicals. On her bi
present voyage she took a cargo esti- re
mated at $2,000,000 in value and ofl- Y
cial mail for Germany. i
Wrapping Paper Short.
New York.-The high cost of wrap- I
ping paper has caused department and w
other retail stores to institute many it
novel methods of economy. The vari- le
ous grades of heavy paper used for
wrapping as well as of tissue paper C.
used for inside wrapping have ad- M
vanced in price, it is stated, between ce
300 and 400 per cent in the last 18 so
months.
to
W. U. Pays Bonus. dr
New York.--Directors of the West- hir
ern Union Telegraph Company, at a Ju
special meeting voted a bonus to em- mi
'ployes receiving less than $2,000 a
year--seven per cent oY their annual
salary to those receiving less than
$1,200, and 6 per cent to those receiv- ha
ing between $1,200 and 52,000. Mes- a
sengers will receive $25 each. me
pol
Calls Trails Meeting. as]
Oklahoma City, Okla.-W H. Har- tlir
vey of Monte Ne, Ark., president of shi
the Ozark Trails Association, called a
delegate conference to meet here De
cember 29 to discuss and determine
the best methods of hardening surfa- pul
ing roads. Mr. Harvey issued a gen- ear
eral invitation to citizens of all states fina
interested in the subject. sue
wit
Officer to Hot SrJrngs. wo
Deming, N. M. - Capt. Albert bec
Clatnch of Company D, First Arkan
sas, who has been confined in the
base hospital for a month with rheu
matism, was sent to Hot Springs, Ark., he
for treatment. Captain Claunch's £ i
home is at Jonesboro. elz
VILLA BANDITS BURN
AMERICAN AT STAKE
REFUGEES BRING REPORT TO
THE BORDER-HANG AN
OTHER AMERICAN.
ME
E
El Paso, Texas. - Government
agents sent a report to Washington
sayinag an American named Foster had
RD been mutilated, then burned at the
stake by Villa bandits operating near
Torreon. The report was said to have
been brought by refugees coming to
Its the border from Torreon.
'f Flter was an American hacienda
superintendent. His first name, &is
hoe 1 the United States and his
rela are not liown here.
" trey, an fhierican mining
lal man a rral, c:hihuahua, was klled
a by Vill andits when they entered
ed I the tow according to a telegram re
he ceived b the Alvarado Mining &
Milling mpany.
a A m nger who arrived from Par
'ul ral sho after the telegram was
'ip made le said Gray was hanged by
to order of 'ila.
The te*gram said all other Ameri
he cans weq safe and that American
rg property was not harmed.
Gray 4Ts shot to death in the door
!c- way of 14a home, near Parral, and his
p. body the hahged by a band of Villa
)k bandits rom Villa's main column, two
y- foreign refugees reaching here from
ys Parral reported.
Thee men said Edgar Koch, Ger
ly man 4cnsul at Parral, told them he
1s was ordered executed by Villa band
m its at Santa Rosalia, after being
ro robbed of $50,000 worth of silver bars
belonging to the Alvarado Mining &
ar Milling Corppany. Though taken out
ig to be shot, he was later released.
Villa ordered the Palmillo mills of
?r the Alvarado Mining Company's plant
f- at Parral dynamited after an effort had
.r been made to operate it. Two foreign
i- refugees who arrived here said Jose
I- Ynez Salazar, Villa's second in com
mand, protested, and they were closed
down.
These refugees said one of the three.
l Iwoniky brothers, who are Germans,
d were arrested and taken to Villa's mil
y itary headquarteqrs, but were later re
I- leased.
r They said Dr. Thomas Flannagan,
r C. Smith, Jacob Meyer, W. A. Scott,
I- McKee and the other Americans ex
a cept Howard Gray, were safe. They
8 said bandits went to the home of
Scott, searched it for him and, failing
to find him, threw his wife and chil
dren into the street and destroyed
his property. A store belonging to
i Juan Canavati, a Syrian, was dyna
mited.
Another Appam Case.
Washington.-The Supreme Court
having agreed to hear on January 8 i
a case testling possession of the Ger
man prize ship Appam, now at New
port News, Va., British claimants
asked the court to hear at the same I
time another case determining owner- i
ship of the ship's cargo.
Mail Gifts Early. a
Washington.--Another appeal to the
public to mail Christmas packages
early to prevent a crush of mail in the t
final days before the holidays was is- 1
sued by the Postoffice Department, t
with a warning that postal facilities C
would be taxed this year to capacity
because of the country's prosperity.
Would Repeal Guard Act. a
Washington.-Senator Borah of Ida- C
he announced that he had prepared
a bill to repeal the act which feder- i
alized the National Guard. C
BOARD AIDS FGHT l
ON COTTONY SCALE
$2,500 SET ASIDE FOR BATON
ROUGE-TWENTY YEAR BONDS
TO BE INVESTIGATED.
RA!L BOARD IN SESSION i!
President Boyd of Louisiana State
University Announced Holidays Will p"h
Begin December 22 and Last Un
til Wednesday, January . t
sot
Sbor
Baton Rouge.--of
At a meeting held in the governor's ren
offirce the State Board of Liquidation t wt
decided to borrow $29.024.S5 of the da
dc cal agency banks to pay the newspa- par
pers of the state for printing they con- me
stitutional amendments. The board
also authorized the borrowing of $1.- t
500 to meet the expenses of the state tho
he board of parole until July 1, 1918, and pay
$2,500 for use in eradicating the cot- str
tony cushion scale which is attack- '
ing trees and shrubbery in Audubon rou
Park in New Orleans. lie
Senator E. M. Stafford, of New Or- the
[ leans, asked the board for the last- Ale:
named appropriation. He said the the
'city would appropriate $2,500 and Bun
would erect a building to help fight this
TO the pest and the conservation depart- will
meat and extension department would Alli
each appropriate $500 pending action side
by the Legislature. ano
The state treasurer, auditor and the
nt governor, as ex-offclo chairman, were O
on appointed: as a committee to investi- terd
gate the proposal of a New York bond
he company to retire the beaded indebt- the
m edness of the state and issue twenty- hoa
ve year bonds, saving the state several ton
thousand dollars in the course of a whe
rear.
da Present at the meeting were: Go-. Stre
is ernor Pleasant, Attorney General Co- Val
ris co, State Treasurer Iunsieker, State Orle
Auditor Capdevielle, Secretary of held
State Baile', TLeutastt Governor Tan
Moston and Hewitt Bouanchand, into
speaker of the Rouse of Represeatta.
tires. of
The Louisiana Railroad Commission tive
met for its two days' December sea- exec
ston with Commissioners Shelby Tay- Mrs
lor, Jorn T. Michel and B. A. Bridges Rev.
present. The committee heard a num- Scot
ber of cases from over the state. phy,
Among these is the case of citizens
ri- of New Orleans against the Pontchar
In train Railroad to compel the road to
erect a shed over the end of its pier 8 it
r- where the Mandeville steamer lands. sive
is President Boyd, of Louisiana State New
Ia University, has announced that holl- aidse
to days at the university will begin Fri. paye
m day, December 22, at 1 o'clock, and tion
last until 8:30 a. m. Wednesday, Jan- 140 f
r- uary 3. No extension of time will be of t
to granted except ynder exceptional cir- aIilnz
d- cumstances and with permission of Bitiot
g the president and 'commandant ofwas:
Scadets. prop
for 4:
t BRIEFLY RELATED. s r
The property of the late D. R. Swift 22, a
is left, Iaccording to the Louisiana a'
law, in his will which was opened at
Lake Charles. Pour heirs will receive
Sabout $67,000 each, they being J. A. Th
e Trotti, of this city; William E. and the
Henry Lee Trotti, of Jasper, Tex., and son
Benjamin Arthur Trotti, of Brooke- le
land, Tex., Mrs. C. N. Powell ef Dew- holidi
Seyville, Tex., John I. Trotti, of Eliza- 2,
, beth, and David H. Trotti, of Merry. The I
Svllle, children of a deceased sister, g t
will receive $22,000 each. la
H. P.
, Deputy Sheriff Fred Petit of Mon
roe left for Baton Rouge with Mere- ly fot
dith McCormick, who was sentenced every
Sto serve ten years in the state peni- wll
teatiary. McCormick was convicted Brous
at the recent term of the district Babi
court on an attempted attack on
Louise Green, a young girl from Nat- pin
chez, Miss. Notice of an appeal was
given in the case, but this was not S
perfected. in the
S - ity be
The prolonged drought, there hav- that i
ing been only showers occasionally year
since the middle of September, has year,
caused all the fields and pastures those
around Abbeville to become ready solon
prey for flames, and the air has been board,
filled with the smoke of innumerable of pot
fires in the fields and marshes. Much Comm
damage has been done to fields, crops ic on
and farm, buildings. linque
collect
Cottonseed is bringing $60 and cot
ton 20 cents, at Newellton, and there A n
was a large corn crop made, for which must
the Newellton elevator is paying 90 and 9,
cents a bushel and is being kept busy now re
with an extra force of men. of coul
--+--- after I
Elaborate services were conducted state I
at the St. John the Baptist Catholic ed for
Church at Levy in memory of Rev. electio
Father Charles Richard, the late rec- for thi
tor of this church, who died in New the te
Orleans at the Hotel Dieu. be clo
Scoring of the contested parts o(
the southe rn end of Jefferson highway
by J. I). (larkson. general manager of
the Jefferson Highway Association,
wa.4 marlied by wildest enthusja.sm all
along the route traversed by him. The
c,oficiral Jefferslon Highway automoblel
is bting scorted by 3,o automobiles
fron' bt h the northern land soilthernT
rON ror', s of the stretch b .tw+, . n e',ltax
DS ::l .\],xandria.
Mr. ('larkon scored the o,'i;, rn
,oile via 11oy0e from Colfarx t, .1\x
:adria. Ile reversed ani wt nt hack
over t'he northern routlle via .;1r
ION !i io, Eo. Tioga and Itadinot to ('n,
f;r. Itotrh routes eto in heated c.on
test, atid, in addition to the p.ersonal
tate iI lletion being mantde by JMr. ('"ark
ill st, the representatives are flood cig
himn with a volume of statistic(s rtlar
tive to population, land values. r~
sources, paved roadways annt available
bond issues for road building.
Mr. Clarkson will he the sole arbiter
of the route to be selected, and will
r's render his decision on the rout, he
on tw\\een ('olfax and New Orleans Tues
the day. December 19, at 2 o'clock in the
pa- parlors of the Association of (onm
on- merce. All of the route from 1'Winni
ard Peg. Canada. to Colfax alrea:ly ha-.
$1.- bn designated, with more tha:tn a
ate thousand miles of the way smooth
td paved and '500 miles in course of con
!ot- struction.
ck- Upon completing the scoring of
ton routes between Colfax and Alexandria,
he will return to Alexandria and score
Or- the north and south routes between
tst- Alexandria and Bunkie, and after that
the the north and south routes between
Bnd Bunkie and Port Allen, completing
tht this work about December 16. This
art- will be followed by trips between Port
ild Allen and New Orleans, scoring both
on sides of the river. This will require
another week.
he
're Officidals of the Louisiana State In
tl- terdenominational Sunday School As
tsd pation of Amite City addressed
bt- the annual donvention of the Tangipa
ty. hoa Parish Sunday School Assocla
151 tion during the second day's session
a when a delegation of Sunday school
workers assembled in the Laurel
n Street Baptist Church. They were
%o' Val Carter, state secretary, of New
Le Orleans, and Miss Susie Judin. state
of eld worker, of New Orleans. The
aLO TUgmphot Assolatto was divtIO
id, into live districts sand officers will be
named for eloh dtlrlot, Samuel Gate
of Hammond was elected replresents
on tive of Tanglpahoa parish on the state
e executive board. Other speakers were
Ly" Mrs. Brittain M. Purser, Dr. GHlen,
e Rev. C. O'N. Martindale, Miss Agnes
° Scot, W. A. Sizemore, Rev. J. G. Mur
re. phy, Rev. J. B. Williams.
a8
Lr
to The proposal to create an addition
er al indebtedness of $40,000 for exten
sive drainage work undertaken in the
te New River drainage district near Don.
~l aldsonville, was approved by the tax.
d. payers of the district at a special elec
1d tion held November 28, the vote being
a. 140 for and only 14 against The value
1 of the property represented by the
r. affirmative vote was $70,900; in oppo
3f sition to $,660. The vote by precincts
)f was: St. Amant, for 72, against 0;
property value, $37,685 for. Gonzales,
for 42, against 1; property value, $20,.
455 for, $380 against. Dutchtown, for
22, against 13; property value $8,52l
for, against $5,290. Geismar, for 4,
a against O; property value $4,060 for.
The annual oneaweek institute for
d the public school teachers of Ascen.
Ssion parish will be held in Donaldsob
Sville immediately after the Christmas
. holidays, beginning Tuesday, January
. 2, and ending Saturday, January 6.
. The teachers will be paid for attend
ing the institute, the same as a regu
lar school week, and Superintendent
H. P. Broussard has notified them that
he will expect them to report promt
ly for the opening and to be present
every day. The program on Tuesday
will be conducted by Superintendent
1 Broussard; on Wednesday by L. J.
t Babin, principal of Dutchtown High
School; on Thursday by L. A. Sims,
principal of Gonzales High School.
Shrilff Tom Hughes of Shreveport,
in the face of the remarkable dispar.
ity between the number of poll taxes
that had been paid by this time labst
year and the number paithso far this
year, issued an urgent request to
those who are eligible to quit waiting
so long. He suggested that the school
board, which gets the entire proceeds
of poUl tax payments, the Chamber of
Commerce, Rotary Club and other civ
ic organizations get behind the de
linquents and hustle them along to the
collector's office.
A new registration of Lake Charles
must be effected between January 1
and 9, apd, as there are 2,000 persons
now registered, the office of the clerk
of court will see quite a rush of voters
after the first of the year Udder the
state law a new registration Is requir
ed for the year 1917, and as a primary
election is to be held in Lake Charles
for the election of city officers about
the tenth of Pebruary, the rolls will
be closed on January 9.
