fWSLFTH YEAR. No. 26
-Tice of hearing of applica.
tion for franchise.
H , ,|, e mutter of the tipplh ation of the
W Airn.ieon \’alloy 11l iKutioil District
I . fraiieliise utiihorizitiK ami i>ermlttliiK
■ ‘ thc jalil applicant. to place, erect and
■.jiiitain poles, wires mid other necessary
I itnliunres and eondoetors and to lay un-
I iiiroimil wires for tin' transmission of
I jJofcltv for telephone purposes in, upon
I over tin- streets, avenues, alleys and
H mUIc hlgliways of the Town of Oroville.
I \m„ok«i> county. Stale of WaslilnKton.
■ tnd to exercise the priviliye of operating
H esAono instraieents and iloina leleplione
m sines* in said town of Oroville.
I purwinnt to a rosolullon duly passed
I j entered by the town council of the
Hum of Oroville on the lltli day of De-
H.vntlter. Udti. under ordinance No. 28 of
B did Town, and ordinance No. *l4 amen.
■ mtory thereof;
gl Votiee is herehx given that the hearing
B d the aforoHaid application for a fran.
I iise to use the streets, alleys and public
»■ .;, c e* of the Town of Oroville, to locate.
■ jflitni' t. use and maintain telephone line
■ sai<! town, has been set for S:3O p. in.
H n tho 4th day of January. PJI7, at the
chain’ era in the town hall of Oro
:;e, at \vhi< h time and place all persons
■interested in the aforesaid application*
■ m)- appear, object to and show causa it
■ iavthey have, why said application shall
■ .‘I be granted.
■ The following is a true copy of the
fram hise ordinance:
J Ordinance No.
I An ordinance granting to the West Ok:i-
Hsogin Valley Irrigation District a eorpora
■ tionit* successors and assigns the right to
■ :Uce. erect and maintain poles, wires and
■.ther appliances and conductors, and to
■»y underground wires for the transmis.
■ >.»n of electricity for telephone purposes.
■ laand upon and under the streets, alleys
■iroraef and public highways in the town
■.f Oroville. State of Washington, and to
■ rtercise tlie privilige of opera linn tele.
■ ;none instruments in. and doing a tele
■ ;>hone business in said Town of Oroville.
■ siatoof Washington.
■ Be It ordered by the Town Council cf
■ fit Town of Oroville, as follows:
■ Section I—-Then* is hereby granted by
■ the Tow nof Oroville to the West Oka.
■ fur Valley Irrigation District, a co •*
■ oration. Its successors and assigns, the
■ right and privilige to do a telephone bus.
■ within the Town d Oroville. and to
■ alao rnd j -ect. lay. maintain and o—iam
■n. upon and under tho street* iPevs, a/e
--■ mies, thoroughfares and public Idp -iwava
■ vithin the said town, poles, wire s .i j i
■ "ther appliances and conductors for the
■ ;.iQsmh.sion of electrloitv for telephone
■ [•urposes but wherever practicable- ku.-Ii
Bpolw and other fixtures above ground
■ snail be erected in the alleys of said town.
■ Such wiles and appliances and conductors
■ may be strung upon polos or other ii\.
■ tures above ground, or at the option of the
■ grantee, Its successors and assigns, may
■to laid underground in pipes or conduits
■ >r otherwise protected, and such othei
■ apparatus may ho used as mav he neces
■ *"T or proper to operate and maintain
■ e same.
■ Section 2—lt shall he lawful for said the
■ »est Okanogan Valley Irrigation District.
■ itt successors and assigns to make all
■ r.<todful excavations in any of such
■ itrccts alleys, avenues ami public high
■ »*y» in said Town of Oroville. for the
■ puroose of placing, erecting laying and
■ maintaining poles or other supports, con
■ hits or conductors for said wires, or for
Irenewinglrenewing or replacing the same.
■ 4S*? 01 * he done in compliance
■ fltn the/necessary rules, regulations, ordi.
■ wnces or orders which may during the
■ t'Hitmuance of this francliise, be adopted
Iriue 1 t,nie l ° the Town of Oro.
• -Wl unlever the West oknno*
Mm Valley Irrigation District, its sue
■ tssms and assigns, shall disturb any of
I eets lor any purpose aforesaid, it
|'* r they shall restore tfTo same to good or
I ~a n(l condition as soon as practicable
■ without unnecessary delay, and failing to
|'"*°* the Town of Oroville shall have tin
I wu*° a reasonable time witliin
■ w inch such repairs and restoration ol
■ streets shall be completed, and upon fall.
r'J 6 o» such repairs being made by said
IjNMrkt, its successors or assigns, the
l lo *’ n of Oroville shall cause such repairs
|U oe made at the expenses of said Tin*
['‘ret Okanogan Valley Irrigation District,
I<ts successors or assigns.
wtion 4.—Nothing in this ordinance
wll bo construed in any way to prevent
tiie proper authorities of the Town of
•rovilk- from sewering, grading, plunking,
taking, paving, repairing, altering or im
proving any of tiie streets, alleys, ave
nues and public highways within the Town
* Oroville in or upon which tlie poles,
fires or other conductors of said District
lull !»♦? placed, hut all such work or Im
provements shall be done, If possible so as
oi to obstruct or prevent the free use of
•W poles, wires, conductors, conduits,
toes or other apparatus.
Section s.—ln consideration of this fran
-1 bise and the rights and prlvillges herein
contained The West Okanogan Valley Ir
rigation District, its successors and as
signs. gives and grants to the Town of
Oroville, without charge, the right and
privilige to suspend and maintain upon tho
poles placed by the said grantee, its suc
'■essors or assigns, in the treets, alleys
avenues and public highways aforesaid,
wy and all wires for its lire alarm, police
telephone service. Said district further
•frees to indemnify and save harmless
the said town of Oroville of and from any
•nd all damages, expenses, costs and
• iiarges and against all such loss and 11-
ability that may he caused to any person
°r persons by reason of the negligence of
*ild district in setting or placing its poles
''lres, conductors or other apparatus, or
tor its failure or negligence in malntaln
'tig or requiring the same.
Section o—The rights and privilege
•nd franchises herein granted shall con
tinue and be in force for the period of
t*entyjlve (25) years from ami after the
wte of the passage of this publication.
Section 7. —This ordinance shall take
effect and be in force from and after its
r *a»wigo and publication.
K. U. HOOSE, (Merle
•SEAL)
First publication Dec. 15, lOlfi.
SHERIFF'S SALE
. Lndcr and by virtue of an order of sale
'••lied out of tlie Superior Court of the
Jjjjte of Washington, holding terms at
u *anogari. Washington, in and for Oka.
5J» n county on the 9th day of Decembei,
and to me directed and delivered for
* Judgment rendered In said court on the
dn day of December A. D. 1916, in favor
of Elmer J. Will and against L. L. (Mine
} n 'I Mary Cline, Irvin Cline, Hert Cline.
Cline. Elmer Cline and Eddie Cline,
®*nor heirs of said L. L. Cline and
Cline, his wife, now deceased, for the
of one thousand one hundred fifty
. wt and thirty-eight one hundreths dol-
JJ* together w-ith costs of suit and inter.
I have levied on all the right, title,
; la,r n and Interest of said defendant ot,
ln jnd to the following property, to.wit:
Jne west half of the northwest quarter.
ne southeast quarter of the northwest
JJJJtter and the northeast quarter of the
JJUlhwest quarter of section ten, township
MHK-e north of range twenty-eight,
J* M. in Okanogan county, Washing-
JJJ 1 ; containing 160 acres according to
wjemment survey.
Notice is hereby given that on the 13th
of January A. D 1917. at 10 o’clock
of said dav. I will sell all the right.
I’ I '* and interest of said L. L. Cline and
W Ollnc. Irwin Cline. Hert Cline. Lora
2 n *. Elmer Cline and Eddie CUne. minor
W of said L. L. Cline and Lora Cline
‘•■wife, now deceased, or rather of them
a,, d to the above described property, or
2.JH»ueli thereof as muv he necessary to
plaintiffs claim, besides all costs.
2? , «'t ami aiming costs. The sale will
u** e place at the front door of the Court
JJJJS' 6t Okanogan. in Okanogan county,
h 9 r*omgtc» n . at public auction, for cash In
Die highest and best bidder.
R’Ji. er * at Okanogan. Okanogan county
ajhlngton. this 9th dav of December,
A - D. 1916.
HARRY E. STARK,
-•off °f Okanogan county, Washington.
pi. l ' TILACKSTONE. Deputy.
p *bit publication December 16, 1916.
Eugene Enloe. one of the owners of
, Power plant, was In Oroville a fev'
~a fhe latter part of last week. The
*_>mpany j 8 preparing to make exton
!* Improvements in the plant, which
'll insure better service, and that will
•PWeclnted by the patronizing pnb-
. n<l<l mrir >i >»
MpH iT/aM rsJ KTVTnWT 77? i \\\\/i , * | ‘ if' |B| lil l| <iii ifyyaw ii— 3
As hits been the custom of this iiaiier
for Fears at this season of the year we
are inailing out white wingeil messen
gers to each subscriber who may be
more or less shy in his accounts. No
offense Is meant by jogging the mem
ory of the delinquent, it is merely it
courteous hunch, a matter of business.
It is hotted that those who receive
these missives will accept them in the
spirit that animates the sender, and
respond promptly, cheerfully and lib
erally. Most of the amounts are very
small, although here and there we
have carried readers over for two or
more years in spite of the fact that
I taper lias advanced lt)0 iter cent, feel
ing satisfied that tho accounts were
perfectly good and would be liquidated
in time. Although singly these ac
counts are in small amounts, yet taken
in the aggregate they foot up to a vary
large sum. If every delinquent woutd
pay promptly there would lie no need
of worrying in tills establishment
about meeting the next paper bill. We
have endeavored not to overlook any
one in arrearage. If we have, It was
an accfdeni, and here and now apolo
gize lor the slight.
That man L. W. Darns is a magician
"hen it comes to prying cash oat of
toreign business houses for the Oro
viile General hospital. Monday he re
ceived a donation of s2a from tlie
National Cloak and Suit company of
New York. He lias managed to shako
down mail order houses for sluu since
work commenced on the hospital.
According to tell report of tlie sec
retary of state titi,727 motor ears have
been licensed in the state since March
Ist. Of that number Okanogan county
has 586, or one to every 29.4 of the
population. Lincoln county has the
greatest number ot cars in proportion
to the population, as there Is one ear
to evety 9.4 of tlie residents of tliat
county. Evidently about every family
in that county sports a car.
SUMMONS.
in the Justice Court of Loomis Precinct,
Loomis, Okanogan county. State of Wash.
iiiKton, before AI. H. Smith. J. P.
The Northern Assurance Company. Lim
ited, a Corporation, Plaintiff,
vs
T. L. Irwin, defedant. Summons.
To T. L. Irwin—
In tlie name of tlie Stale of Washing
ton you are hereby notified that the plain
tiff in this action lias liled a complaint
against you in said court, which will
come on to be hoard at my office in Lf)u
mls, Okanogan county. Slate of Washing
ton, on Saturday tlie 30th day of Decem
ber, 11*16 at the hour of 9 o’clock A. M.
of said day, and unless you appear then
ami there and answer tlie same will he
taken as confessed, and tlie demand of
tlie plaintiff granted.
The object and demand of said com
plaint is to secure Judgment against de
fendant in favor of plaintiff for the sum
of $20.25 and costs of this action for an
insurance policy bought of plaintiff ami
never paid for.
I'omplaint Hied December Sth, 1916.
M. H. SMITH,
Justice of tlie peace.
W. E. Grant, attorney for plaintiff. Post
Office address, Loomis. Okanogan county
Mate of Washington.
First publication December 15, 1916.
NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, in and for tlie County of
Okanogan, in probate.
In the matter of the estate of Henry
Brown, deceased, notice of Settlement of
account, No. 628.
Notice is hereby given that Charley
Bottomley, executor of the estate of Hen
ry Brown, deceased, has rendered and
presented for settlement to. and filed in
tiie Superior Court of said county and
State, his final account as such executor,
and that Tuesday, the 2nd day of January
A. D. 1917, at ten o’clock A. At. at the
court room of our said Superior Court, In
the town of Okanogan in said county. Inis
been duly appointed by our said Superior
Court for tlie settlement of the final ac
count, at which time and place any per
son interested in said estate may appear
and file tiis exceptions in writing to the
said final account, and contest tiie same.
Witness tlie Hon. Court Commissioner
of the said Superior Court, and tlie seal
of said court affixed this 13th day of
December, A. T>. 1916.
MARY E. AIcCLI RE.
County Clerk and Clerk of the Supelor
Court. -
First publication Dec. 15, 1916.
In the Justice Court of Loomis Precinct
Loomis, Okanogan county. State ol Wash
ington. before M. H. Smith. J. P.
if, W. Champneys, Plaintiff
vs
T I. Irwin, defendant, Summons,
•State of Washington, County of Okanogan.
SB. * -
To T. L. Irwin: „ ,
In the name of the State of WHshing
ton, you are hereby notified that 11. W.
Chanipneys, has Hied a complaint against
vou In said court, which will come to be
heard at my office in Loomis, Okanogan
fountv. State of Washington, on Satur
day the noth dav of December 1916. at
the hour of ten o'clock a. rn. of said day,
and unless you appear then and I here and
answer, the same will he taken as con
fessed, .and the demand of the complaint
of.plaintiff granted.
The object and demand of said claim
is to secure Judgment against defendant
in favor of plaintiff fot *92.05. on a Halm
that plaintiff has against defendant tor
said amount and costs of this action.
Complaint Hied December sth. 1916.
M. H. SMITH.
Justice of the Peace.
W. E. Grant, attorney for plaintiff. Post
Office address, Loomis, Okanogan county
Washington. lalft
First publication December la. I*l6.
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
In the Superior Court of the State ot
Washington, for Okanogan county, in pro.
|)0 t A
In' the matter of the estate of Henry
drown, deceased. Orrteer to Show t ause
why distribution should not lie made, No
having been died in thir
court on the I:sth day of December A. P
Kilt! bv Charley Bottomley lot final dis
tributlon of the residue ot said estate
It Is ordered Hint nil persons interested
in tiie estate of'siiid Henry Blown, de
ceased. be, and are hereby dlieoted t
appear in the court room of this court M
the court house in the town of Okanogan
in said county and state, on Tuesday c
■>nd dav of January A. D. a I
hour of ten o'clock A. M, and show cause
if anv thev have, why Hie court shou not
proceed to llatrihule Hie residue of .aid
estate among the persons who hv ciw.
jr ittS t further h o r rde°red that a copy of this
sSSfiraw
e'u*'h week for two muvesalve weeks In the
MtoWSSd
C T)ated tills 13th day of December. A. "•
191 - QEO. ,S LEE.
Court Commissioner
First publication December 16. 1916.
TO SI'HSCHIHERS.
SUMMONS.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON, DECEMBER 15^.1916
I*ROSI>E( T OF I’EAUE.
I he latest news from Europe is to
,e t,|tect tl,ut Germany has made
overtures to the entente allies through
the neutral powers of the United
states, Spain and Switzerland. The
exact terms are not as yet known.
I ho proposal may load up to the sus
pension of hostilities until negotiations
can be conducted. Germany is offer
ing peace at a time when its arms in
Romania are victorious, and is extend
ed more as conquerors than a nation
tired of war and anxious to secure
peace on any terms. Unless peace can
be reached on terms that will satisfy
all the belligerents and insure lasting
peace, then fhe awful sacrifice of the
past two and a half years will have
been in vain. It is the first time since
ilm war began that any of tho com
batants have shown a disposition to
entertain proposals of peace on any
basis. God grant tliat it. may lead up
to tho ending of one of the most fright
ful and useless wars in the history of
the world.
—•»-
FORM THE HABIT.
Th" boys at (lie First National bank
;iv inaugurating a custom that has
been very popular in the cities, and
that is the organization of “Christmas
Clubs." As a rule, the average man
finds himself shy of cash Just about
holidays, when ready money Is a very
desirable possession. If others have
the same experience we do ■ every
Christmas we declare tliat before an
other t bristiiias we will have saved up
a special fund for Christmas giving,
and llii'ii nl another Christmas it is
the same old story. The “Christmas
Club” is a provision that makes it pos
sible for tlio.se who are members of
tlie club lo have ready cash at their
disposal just when wanted. The Idea Is
small weekly saving deposits in the
bank throughout the year to be drawn
on during the holidays. It is astound
ing how such a fund grows where a
few niekles and dimes are put away
each week out of reach. It is stated
that in tho larger cities millions of dol
lars were deposited during the past
year through the instrumentality of
the “Christmas Clubs.” Besides the ad
vantage of providing a Christmas fund
this saving habit Is a mighty good one
to acquire. It is the intention of the
bank force to address tho children of
the schools on tlie subject and arouse
an interest among teh young in Hie
sating habit for the membership ol
most clubs are made up from the
young members of a community.
> KIV CENTRAL.
The Pacific Telephone and Tele
graph company has taken a five year
lci4.sc on the east store room of the
Hotel de Grubb, on First avenue, and
will fit it up as the central telephone
station. The company is going to con
siderable expense fitting and equipp
ing the new office. There are to be
private booths, rest room, office, toilet,
new and improved switch boards and
furniture to correspond with the up-to
date surroundings. When the improve
intns under way on the lines have
been completed and the office ready
for occupancy the Oroville central wi’.l
be (rn of (he neatest and most com
plete on any of the company’s multi*
tudious systems. Moreover, the office
will bo more centrally located and con
venient to (he vast majority of the pat
rons of the system.
A I OR M i:i{ LOO MI SI TT.
The older residents about Loomis
will remember Charlie llofstetter, who
at one lime, back so far that it is a tax
on the memory to dig up the date,
worked on the old Loomis Proscpector.
Charley was a product of the Colville
valley, a scion of the house of Hofstet
ter, one of the oldest In that valley,
and a most likeable young man. Since
leaving Loomis be has done much
drifting with the flood. He is now lo
cated at Bend, Oregon, and the Hend
Daily Press, a brand new veutuie'in
Journalism, contains the following
mention of him as one of the force
connected with that publication:
“Assisting Mr. Byrd is Chas. Hof
stetter, a man with years of training
and consequently of considerable abil
ity as a job man. Besides being a good
all-round printer, Mr. Hofstetter is a
newspaper man from the ground up.
He is district manager for the Curtis
Publishing company and Bend agent
for the Oregonian ,in which Held he
has proven a live wire.”
east orchard tracts.
\V. H. Thayer has the foundation
started tor a $1,500 residence, size
;>2x:l4. This will be a great addition to
the value of his tract.
Mr. Onn and son Willie have been
confined to the house for some time
with the grip.
Mrs. Archie Spencer and two little
daughters, who have been staying for
a few days at the Cozy Corner ranch,
have gone to Northport. where Mr.
Spencer lias a position in a store,
Fred Clark and son Worden and Mr.
Clark's grandfather, Daniel Leavens,
are ail suffering with the grip.
LADIES AID BAZAAR.
The I .allies Aid will hold a bazaar
at the library building this Friday
afternoon, at which a large number of
elegant specimens of needle work will
bs on display and tor sale. This is a
p o“t excellent opportunity to secure
appropriate Christmas gifts for friends
•mul relatives. Besides the bazaar light
refreshments will be served during the
nfteiioon. Everybody invited to at
tend.
LOOKING BACKWARD.
Happenings When Hie Land Was
Young and Sparsel/ Settled.
(From the Loomis Prospector, De
cember 17, 1917.)
A scare head over a two column ar
tide announces "Bright Prospects—
The Golden Zone Coming to the Front
—Another Stump Mill in Sight—A
Property Owned by a Pittsburg Syn
dicate that will be Producing Bullion
by Spring.” (Another false alarm. The
mill was constructed all right, but the
bullion, except, maybe, soup, has never
as yet been seen at the mine. Not but
what the ore is there, for it is. No con
tinues and thorough effort has ever
been made to get it out. All of the
Pittsburg gentlemen who were owners
of the mine twenty years ago, and a
liner lot of men never operated in the
county, died a number jjf years ago,
and the mine is in other hands today.
The present owners may make the
property a producer, (or the Indica
tions are such as to encourage effort
in the way of development.)
Jas. Henderson, who ran a saw mill
In the la>omis neighborhood twenty
years ago, moved his mIH to Falrvlew.
B. C., then one of the most active and
promising mining camps in the west,
where he had one contract for 200,000
feet of lumber among a numb.er of
smaller contracts. When the bottom
fell out of Falrview’s mining boom
Mr. Henderson returned to Loomis, but
In a short time sought other fields.
His present wherabouts is not known.
That clever old timer Alex Mac
cauley, of Orovllle, was in town Satur
day on his way home from a trip to
the outside. (Mr. Macauioy, the oldest
settler of the valley, is still a resident
of Orovllle, and looks hardly a day
cider than he did twenty years ago.i
Geo. Ellis made a business trip to
Orovllle Saturday. (And Sunday, the
same Geo. Ellis was in |town a day
from Spokane, where he now- resides.:
Commissioner M. D. Griffin was up
from his Okanogan river ianch ta the
snow Monday and remained a dav or
two. (Mr. Griffin lived a short distance
south o? the present town of Tonasket.
He died a dozen years ago.)
A dance was given by 4- JK. Longacre
at the Fruit ranch, on Palmer lake,
last Thursday night, wUcjwras largely
attended. Of course all present had a
delightful time, the host doing the
honors and Col. Joe Hunter, the night
engale of Kercmeos, contributed to the
entertainment. (In those days Long
acre was a bachelor. He has since
gathered unto himself a wife and the
family still lives near Loomis. Col.
Joe Hunter, the veteran prospector us
well as veteran of the civil war, Is
spending the winter in Orovllle. His
singing is not as melodious as it was
twenty years ago, but he has lost none
of his dry humor.)
Heavy snows were driving deer down
into the valley December, 1897.
There were Christmas trees, Christ
mas dances, Christmas turkey shoots
and raffles galore Christmas nineteen
years ago. Residents up here were far
from the maddening crowds, yet they
managed to extract considerable Joy
out of life.
Tom Pierce Is doing the assessment
work on the famous War Eagle claim,
on Palmer Mountain. (Mr. Pierce is
now conducting a store at Loomis. The
“famous” War Eagle is still where it
was when Mr. Pierce performed the
necessary representative work. Some
wonderful rich ore was taken from the
War Eagle, near the surface, but it
was never made to pay.)
A short continuance of the present
snmple of winter will put an end to
navigation on the Columbia river.
When the boat ties up freight for this
and adjacent points must come In via
Coulee City. (And navigation did close
and everything that was sold In stores
had to be hauled in by wagons from
Coulee City. There were many freigh
ters in the country at that time that
thought nothing of making that hard,
long trip. Naturally, the freight bills
were enormous, and the consumer had
to pay the freight as ts customary 'he
world over.)
The following appear among items
from Orovllle: H. P. UePencier has a
force of men doing assesment work on
the Spokane and Standard mines, near
Golden.
Mike Horrigan and family have mov
ed down from Golden to Orovllle f <r
the winter. (The Horrigan family still
lice on the old homestead near Golden,
but the younger members of the fam
ily of that day have grown to man and
womanhood.)
Mrs. Boyd and daughter Jelta wore
guests of Mrs. Samson a few days last
week.
AT THE OKPHEUM.
“Husband and Wife,’’ a strong dra
matic play written by Charles Kenyon,
Author of "Kindling," and given its
premiere at the 4Slh street theatre,
New York, where the newspapers pro
nounced it one of the most extraordi
nary plays of modern times, with a
strong and appealing moral; all in all,
one of the few domestic dramas which
meet the undivided approval of the
metropolitan newspapers. Staged un
der William A. Brady's supervision it
has now been made into a motion pic
ture also under Mr. Brady’s critical
eye and will be shown at the Orpheum
theatre on Saturday and Sunday even
ings. This picture marks the first of
the Brady all star casts, which in
cludes Ethel Clayton, Holbrook Blinn
Emmett Corrigan. Gcrda Holmes, Mon
tague Love, Dion Titherage and Little
Made Evans.
AT THE LYRIC THEATRE.
This weeks offerings at the Lyric
theatre are in a way unusual. They are
unusual from the standpoint of booking
'.wo of the most renowned and Justly
ceiebiated plays In the same week.
For Saturday and Sunday and the Sat
urday afternoon matinee, the produc
tion will be Hector Turnbull's master
piece “The Heart of Nora Flynn,” with
dainty little Marie Doro in the leading
role. “The Heart of Nora Flynn” has a
reputation that is as wide as the world
and is one of the most Iqveable and de
lightful productions that encumber the
American stage.
Resides this, there will be the usual
Bray's cartoons, the favorite of both
young and old.
For Wednesday and Thursday there
will appear Dustin Farnum in “David
Garrick." Everybody knows this favor
ite production and loves it. Tho story
has to do with "David Garrick,” actor,
whose indifference to the wiles of
womanhooiF and devotion to the up
lifting of tho stage is well known. The
time comes when he meets the only
woman, and from that lime on things
happen fast and furious. “David Gar
rich” is so well known that added
comment from us is unnecessary as
tlie play is one that has stood the test
of many years and is still the prime fa
vorite that it was forty years ago.
One of tho largest audiences that has
ever assembled In the Orphcum theatre
was present Wednesday evening on the
occasion of the appearance of the
Creation Tamburlca Orchestra, the
third number of the Midland Lyceum
Bureau winter entertainments, and a
more enthusiastic and delighted
audience has never been seen in tlie
tewn. The program was made up of
native songs and instrumental selec
tions. with selections from the leading
operas, Interspersed with lighter mu
sic. Tho perfect time of the performers
and the timbre of stringed instruments
different from anything ever heard
here before made a most charming
and melodious concord of sweet
sounds. If the same company c'ould bo
induced to appear here again this
winter the house would not accommo
date the crowd that would turn out.
A movement is on foot amoung sev
eral of the young men to start an ath
letic association for the winter months.
It is a movement that should be on
eouraged and supported by the older
JuMthers of tlie omnmunlty. An organi
zation of this kind has been tried in
former years, but through causes
which need not be mentioned, failed.
An athletic association properly man
aged, with all objectionable features
eliminated, would be of benefit lo all
connected therewith, and Oroville is
large enough to support an orgamza
iion of this kind.
It would be conducive to the pleas
ure of the public if owners of dogs
would refrain from taking them to
public entertainments, and if the
owners have no respect ncr consider
ation for their neighbors then It Is the
duty of the manager of the theatres to
take drastic action and exclude both
dogs and owners If the latter are not
satisfied with the expulsion of the
canines.
AI Riste was a visitor in town Wed
nesday from hls Similkameen valley
ranch or the ranch he recently dispos
ed of. Mr. and Mrs. Riste may spend a
few weeks in California during the
winter, but will return north in the
spring, as neither of them care to make
that state a permanent home.
Quite a vote was polled at the el<v
tion Tuesday to select directors for vhe
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation sys
tem, the result being the reelection of
Geo. I. Cole and the election of Or. I
S. Beale to fill the vacancy made by
the retirement from the hoard of K
Truax.
Among the deputies appointed for
his office by Auditor-elect Dewey
Hubbard is James Silverhorn, of this
place. Mr. Hubbard is to be congratu
lated upon securing the services of a
most efficient office man who is at the
same time a royal good fellow,
The friends of the family will regret
to learn that Arthur Wentworth Har
pbam, infant son of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Harpham, died at Providence
hospital, Wallace, Idaho, December
sth. The little one was born In Oro
ville, February 26. 1916.
Stores and store windows about town
are taking on stunning holiday deco
rations, that are pretty to look upon.
It is the same old Yule tide attractive
display, but loses none of its Interest
to young or old with age.
An immense quantity of copper
matte passes through Orovllle every
week from the coast to the smelter at
Grand Forks. The cars used are the
largest in service and carry "0,000
pounds of freight.
A dance followed the musical enter
tainment Wednesday night at which
the music was furnished hy the t r
tlan orchestra. Quite a number of tin
audience remained and took part it
(he exercise.
Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Bussart loft
Wednesday for Portland where they
will remain until March or April,
when they expect to return to Oroville
and build themselves a home.
The band boys are going to celebrate
the coming In of the new year with a
grand public dance on Monday even
ing, January Ist.
Miss Fannie Peterson has been ap
pointed United States commissioner at
th's place to succeed Mrs. Julia Bus
sert, resigned.
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Grant, of Loomis
are in town this week, Mr. Grant loo 1 '
Ing after legal business for Judy
Neal.
TRINITY Ei’USCOI’AL C'HUM 11.
Morning service and sermon at II
A. M.u. m. Sunday school at 12. Even
ing prayer and sermon at 7 I’. if.
Kindly note that evening services
wifi be resumed on next Sunday and
the hour is changed to 7 I’. M. The ser
vice will lust less than an hour. All
re cordially invited.
Very Uev. U. H. Severance, Dean.
n. e. nn m ii.
Sunday school at to a. m. Epworth
League U;HO p. m. Preaching service ai
7;2U p. in. Mid Week prayer and praise
Thursday at 7;RU p. ni.
SHERIFF’S CM.E.
Under and by virtue oi tt writ of exe.
cution under foreclosure, issued out of me
Superior Court of the Stale oi Washing.,
ton, bolding terms at Uitanogon, Wash
ington, in and for tlie county oi uk.tnogun,
on the alii day of December, 1 f*i 1 and to
me directed and delivered, for a judgment
rendered in said court on mo illt day of
December A. I'. ISIS in favor of .Screen D.
Webb, plaintiff and against Joint XI. Not.
ris, Sr., Martini li. Norm;, ids tide. John
M. Norrlg Jr., and Elisabeth N. Sowi j,
heirs ol Urace K. Notic. dect-nsed, luu
unknown heirs of said Uran* K Norris, do.
ceased, former wife oi said Jonh M. Noma
Sr., and John AI. Norris, Jr. individually
for tlie sum ot sio._-j together win.
costs of suit and inteiesi. I have levied on
all the right, title, ....tin and interest ol
said defendants of. in and lo tlie loilowing
property, to.wit:
“Lot numbered Eight ■. Section Thlrt>
three, and Lot numbered i-’ive ot Section
Tirl>-four in Township hoi;. .No.in, .iin
Lot numbered Two of Seeiion three, and
Lots numbered nine, ten and ihhtcen of
Section Four in Township thirty.nine
North, of liunge twenty.seven. East of
Willamette Meridian, ukauogan county,
Washington, containing one hundred
thirty-two and sixty-live tnndreths
acres."
Notice is hereto given that on tilo lot it
day of January, A. D. nil? at tlie hour ol
eleven o'clock a. rn. of said day, 1 will
sell all the right, title amli interest of said
Joint M. Norris, sir. Martha 11. Norris, ms
wife; John M, Norris, Jr., and Elizabeth N
Sewell, heirs of Urace K. Norris, deceased,
other unknown heirs of said Urace 1..
Norris, deceased, former Wife of said
John AI. Norris, Sr., or cither ol them, in
and lo the above described property, or
so much thereof as may be necessary lo
satisfy plaintiff's claim, besides ail eosis,
interest and accruing costs - .
The sale will take place at tlie front
door of the court house at Okanogan, in
Okanogan county, Washington, at public
auction for cash in baud to tlie highest
and best bidder.
Dated at Okanogan, Okanogan county,
Washington, tills Oth day in December.
11)16.
HARRV E. STARK,
Sheriff of Okanogan county, Wasnlngm ■
iiy CLAIR WARD, Deputy
•t. M. ADAMS. Oroville, Wash. Attorney
for plaintiff.
First publication December 8, WIG.
SHERIFF S SALE
Under and by virtue of a writ of execu
tion issued out of the Superior court of
the State of Washington, holding terms at
Spokane, Washington, in and for Spokane
county, on the 9th day of November. 1916,
and to iii«• directed and delivered, for a
judgment rendered hi said court on the
9th day of November A. l>. 1916, in favor
of F. M. Churchill and against Horn Sil
ver Mining Company, a corporation, foi
tlie sum of $1466.00 together with coats
of suit and interest, 1 have levied on all
the right, title, claim and interest of said
defendant of. in and the following
property, to-wit:
The "Hory Silver", "Silver Horn”.
’Brittle Silver", and "Silver Tunnel” lode
Alinig claims, designated by the surveyor
general as Survey No. 930, embracing a
portion of Sections Twenty One and
Twenty Eight In township forty north of
range twenty-six E. W. AI., in Wannicut
mining district, Okanogan county. Wash
ington, as bounded, platted and described
in the official survey of said claims and
in the patent for said claims, issued by the
United States Government to the Horn Sil
ver, Mining Company, said patent being
dated March 4th., 1914. and liled and re
corded in tlie -office of tiie Auditor of
Okanogan county, Washington
Notice is hereby given that on the 6th
day of January A. D. 1916 at 10 o clock
A. M. of said day, I will sell all the right,
title and Interest of said defendant. «•*’
either of them. In and to tlie above describ
propertv, or so much thereof as may he
necessary to satisfy plaintiff’s claim, be
sides all costs, interest and accruing costs.
The sale will take place at the front door
of the court house, at Okanogan in Oka
nogan county, Washington, at public auc
tion for cash in hand to the highest and
best bidder.
Dated at Okanogan, Okanogan county.
Washington, this Ist day of December.
A. D. 1916. .
HARRY B. STARK.
Sheriff of Okanogan County Washington.
By CLAIR WARD. Deputy.
First publication December 8, 1916.
Serial Nos. 010337—012072.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Offlee at Watervllle. Wash., November
27. 101 fi.
Notice is hereby given that (lien A.
Owens, of Washington, who on
August 31, toil, made homestead entry
Serial No. 010337. and on March the 18th
1013. made additional homestead entry
Serial No. 012072. for the SWViSWViSWH
B%NWU SW'iSWh Section 11 EVfcSE
KNEH Section 22, W%NWM.
SWM. TCV.NWVtPW'i and
'iSW'i Section 23. Township 30 North.
Hang 2f» East. Willamette meridian, has
filed notice of intention to make three,
year proof, to establish claim to the land
above described, before Geo. .1. Hurley,
United States Commissioner, at Loomis,
Washington, on the 10th day of January,
1017.
Claimant names as witnesses: Irwin
Smith. C. W. Adair, Ralph Owens and
Ferris Ford, all of Loomis. Washington.
BEN SURAH. Register.
First publication December S, 1010.
NOTICE OF CONTEST
(For Publication.)
Serial No. 010089
Contest No. 1339.
Department of the Interior. U. S Land
Office, Watervllie, Washington, Novem
ber IS, 1916,
To James H. Best of unknown address,
contestee:
You are hereby notified that Wm. L
Ingerick who gives Oroville, Washington,
as his post office address, did. on or about
October 21, I9lfi filed in the office his
duly corroborated application to contest
and secure the cancellation of your home
stead entry No. Serial No. 010989
made March It, 1912, for the SVfcNEVi and
N'iSEH section "2, township 39 N. R..
2T. east of the Willamette Meridian and
as for grounds for his contest he alleges
that you never settled upon said land;
that you never placed any improvements
thereon nor cultivated any portion there,
on; that you have wholly abandoned said
lands for more than six (6) months prior
to the date hereof and that said lands
were never entered by you as and for a
home but for speculation.
You are therefore further notified that
the said allegations will be taken as con.
fessed, and your said entry will be can
celed without further right to be heard,
either befdre this office or on appeal. If
you fall to file In this office within twenty
days after the fourth publlcatl >f this
notice, as shown below, you nsn-er,
under oath, specifically responding tc
these allegations of contest, together with
due proof that you have served a ropy
of your answer on the sato contestant
either in person or by registered mall.
You should state In your answer the
name of the postoffice to which you de
sire future notices to be sent to vou.
BEN SPEAR, Register.
S. S. BEOGS, Receiver.
First publication Nov. 24, 1919.
Second publication December 1, 1916.
Third publication December 8, 1916.
Fourth publication, December 15, 1910.
LIBRARY REPORT.
The following Is the library report
for the months of October and Novem
ber:
Books taken out 108; applications,
5; dues or fines collected, 90c.
Donations: seven books and other
literature from Mr. Work. Six books
consisting of historical, sclentiflc and
addresses delivered in the house and
teuate, C. C. Dill. Magazines from Mr.
Jackson.
FANNIE A. McMAHAN,
Librarian.
It is reported that excellent ore In
large quantities has been struck this
week both in the O. K. and the 49th
Parallel mines.
SHERIFF’S SALE.
Lnder and by virtue of an order of sale
under foreclosure issued out of the super,
lor court of the State of Washington,
holding terms at Okanogan. Washington,
in and for Okanogan county, on the 10th
day of November, 1916, and to me direct
ed and delivered, for a Judgment render
ed in said court, on the 9th day of No.
vember, A. D. 1916, In favor of The Con.
necticut Investment Company, a corpora
tion, and against Hanson IJ.1 J . Motsinger,
Clara B. Motsinger, his wife, Wallace C.
Pratt, oilie M. Pratt, his wife, Oeorgiette
Murray and James Haynes Murray, her
husband ami Anna Staff, for the sum of
$1084.46 and $160.00 attorney fee, together
with costs of suit and interest, 1 have
levied on all tlie right, title, claim and
interest of said defendant of, in and to the
following property, to-wit;
Lots throe ana four In section seven,
and lot one in section eighteen, township
thirty.nine north of range twenty.mne,
W. W. M and the northeast quarter of the
northeast quarter of section thirteen,
township thirty-nine north of range
twenty-eight E. W. M. together with the
appurtenances thereunto belonging, sllu
atod In Okanogan county, Washington.
Notice Is hereby given, that on the 23rd
day of December, A. D. 1916, at 10 o’clock
A M of said day, I will sell ail the right,
title and Interest of said defendants or
either of litem, in and to the above des.
i ribed property, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy plakitlff’s
claim, besides ah costs, interest and ac.
cm mg costs. The sale will take plata at
the front door of the court house at Oka
nogan. In Okanogan county, Washington,
at public auction, for cash in hand, to the
highest and best bidder.
Dated at Okanogan, Okanogan county,
Washington, tlds 14th day of November,
A D. 1916.
HARRY E. STARK,
Sheriff of Okanogan county, Washing
ton. By CLAIR WARD, Deputy.
W. C. BROWN, attorney for plaintiff.
First publication Nov. 17, 1916.
No. 1668
NOTICE OF PRIVATE SALE OF REAL.
ESTATE.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, In and for the county of
Lincoln.
lit the matter of the estate of Peninah
D. Wood, deceased.
Notice is hereby given that under, by
virtue and hi pursuance of an order of
the Honorable superior Court of the State
of Washington, in and lor the county of
Lincoln, made, entered and hied in the
above entitled matter on the 2lst day
of November 1916, the undersigned, eae.
cutrix of the last will and testament of
Peninah D. Wood, deceased, will sell at
private sale, the following described prop
erty. to.wit: The south half of tiie north
west quarter and the lots numbered three
(3> and four (4> of section hve (.6), in
township thirty seven (37), north, of range
twenty-seven (27> E. W. M., in Oka
nogan county. State of Washington;
The said sale will be made on or after
Wednesday, the 2uth day of December,
1916, and bids will be received at the office
of Jno. 1. Melville, attorney for the said
estate, at Sprague, Washington, or may
be delivered to me personally or tiled in
the office of Clerk of .the Superior Court
above entitled;
The terms of sale are cash, ten per cent
of the bid payable at the time of sale
and balance upon confirmation by said
court.
Dated at Sprague, Washington, this 23rd
day of November 1916.
MARY VINYARD,
Executrix of the last will and testament
of Peninah 1). Wood, deceased.
JNO. 1 MELVILLE—
Bank of Sprague Annex. Sprague, Lin
coln county, WashP glon, Attorney for
Executrix and estate
First publication December 1, 1916.
(Application No. 1000$)
NOTICE OF SALE OF STATE LANDS.
Notice Ik hereby given, that on Tuesday
the -ml day of January, i 917. between the
hours of tun o'clock In the forenoon and
four o’clock in the afternoon, commencing
at ten o'clock In the forenoon of said day.
In front of the main entrance door to the
county court house In the city of Oka.
m,nan. county of Okanogan, State of
Washington, either by the county audi
tor of said county or by a member of the
Hoard of State Land Commissioners of the
State of Washington, the following des
cribed state lands, together with the Im.
provements situated thereon will be sold
at public auction to the highest bidder
therefor, to.wlt:
(Application No. 10006)
N‘/4 of SK‘/« and SLI4 of BEV» of Sec
tion 2, Towns.lip 38 North, Kange 26 East
W. M . containing 120 acres, more or lees,
according to the government survey
thereof, appraised at $1706.00.
NWli of NWIt of Section 10. Township
38 North. Kange 26 East W. AT, contain
ing 40 acres, more or less, according to
Hie government survey thereof, appraised
at $400.00, subject to an easement for
right-of-way for state road, sixty feet In
width, over and across said land, as sur
veyed and platted by the Slate Highway
Commissioner according to the plat there,
of (lied in the office ot the Commissioner
of Public Lands by said Stale Highway
Commissioner, which said easement for
said right-of-way Is forever reserved to
the stale.
Said land will be sold subject to the
terms, conditions and reservations of
Chapter 109 of the Session Laws of till,
relating to easements for rights-of-way
and the carrying of timber, stone and
mineral and other products over the same.
.Said lands will be sold for nut less than
the appraised value above stated and up.
on the terms and conditions following
Terms and Conditions of sale.—Not less
than one-tenth of the purchase price
must be paid at the time of sale to the
officer making the sale. The purchaser,
if lie be not the owner of the Improve
ments, must forthwith pay to the officer
making the sale the full amount of the
appraised value of the improvements, as
above stated. One.tenth of the purchase
price must be paid annually thereafter
with interest on all deferred payments
at the rate of six per centum per annum,
together with accrued Interest on any bal.
ance, at the same rate: Provided. That
any purchaser may make full payment of
principal. Interest and statutory fees at
any time and obtain deed or state patent.
The purchaser of land containing timber,
or other valuable materials Is prohibited
by law from cutting or removing any such
timber or materials without first obtain
ing consent of the Commissioner of Pub
lic Lands or the board. until the full
amount of the purchase price bar b-en
paid and deed issued.
All sales of state lands are made suh.
Ject to the reservations of oils g -ses,
coal, ores, minerals and fossils -,f every
name, kind and description, and to the
additional terms and conditions prescribed
in the act of the legislature approved
March 20. 1907. being section 3 of chapter
256 of the Laws of 1907,
The above described lands are offered
for sale in pursuance of an order if the
Hoard oj State Land Commissioners and
an crier of sale duly Issued and certified
by the Commissioner of Public Trends of
the S'ate of Washington now on file In
the o"lce of the county auditor of said
countv.
CLARK V. SAVinOK,
Commissioner of Public Lsndt.
First publication November 2s, lilt.
$1.60 PER TEAR
