' ' M
lie
8S II
Caattte
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY,' DECEMBER 15, 1916. - 12 PAGES.
NUMBER 33.
Our Paved Street.
Oregon Is now a city of paved
streets, electric lights, on Intcrurban
rnllrn.id, having ft modem high school
mid graded school building, loented in
the center of one of the most attrac
tive blocks of ground to bo found
onywherc within the borders of our
tnte.
Kisdit of these street blocks are
paved In asphaltum; one in macadam
nsphaltum, and four In mnrnd.n-i.
Tito engineering scheme was to lay
out Hip streets so ns to have wide
parkways between the euililnit and
sidewalk line, niyl tills was carried
out In every detail. The public square
has n nine-font par'(wny nround Its
four sides, and In due time will be
made one of the benuty spots In
Northwest Missouri.
It now come to the property own
ers to take the necessary steps n
soon as the Hobln comes ngnln to get
their parkways sown to blucgrnss,
and possess themselves of sulllclent
civic pride to Ret n health carpeting
of green, and keep it In InvitlnR and
pleasing condition, and with our
splcudid water system, this can be
done at a trifling cost to the property
owner.
Wc believe that wc should now
have a 'commissioner, whoso duty
should be to look after and suggest
to the property owners not a boss,
not a dictator, but some one who
knows something about the growing
of blucgrnss and shade-trees, and con
fer with them looking to the Uniform
beautifying of these streets. We be
.licve such a person can be found in
our midst, anil they would be willing
to make it a labor of love, for tho
good and pride of us all.
As In all cases of this character
of engineering, some few seem to
think they have been more or less In
jured, and this Invariably occurs In
tho old cities, where custom has per
mitted building in disregard to grade
lines, and thus some one Amis when
the time comes for such work to be
done that their building or sidewalk
is skyward with the grade. This is
regrcttnbic, of course, and it Is a
pity that such things occpr, but It
seems unavoidable from the engi
neer's view point and transit.
Mr. Hoy Leslie, of St. Joseph, was
the tngincer In charge, and he vm
assisted by Harney Hodgln, and so
far aa we are able to Judge, after ob
taining his base line, Mr. Leslie hew
ed to the line, ever keeping In mind
the drainage problem. Mr. tasllo and
Mr. Hodgln looked after the contract
ors, seeing that they compiled with
the pirn and.speclfl-stlons, and In
some Instances, the firm having tho
asphaltum contract were required to
do their work over, and should tho
work not prove to bo what It should
lie, it w ill not bo because Messrs. Les
lie and Hodgln were not faithful and
careful In watching over the wotk.
While Oregon lins ever been re
Kardcd as one of the beautiful cities
of our state, sho cun be made still
more beautiful by the coming of our
paved streets and parkways, and ev
ery cltlicn should take especial pride
In helping to keep these streets clean
and tlio parkway In front of every
homo n benutv snnt. thus Impressing
every strnnRcr that comes within our
Rates mai urcgon is a city wonn iiv
lnir in.
We hone our council will takesteps
during the winter months looking to
the pnviiig or Washington street irom
Missouri to tlio south line of the city
limits; llnmiltouj street from Noda
way to the George Murray place;
Main street from Nodaway to dcargc
street.
Let the Rood work go on.
Parent-Teachers' Meeting. A Pair of Cronies.
. i-.. t it i - . i. c . . i. in i . . i
un lursun) rveninK imti-uiiivr , .rn .iinmi, ui i
tho I'nrent-Tcnchcrs' Association held Shultt, of the Sun
miniL iiisirici. sirucK w .-i... . .
metfin ? HJS" JS.2! !Cw.nVJn!'.',iV..!,I 'LSk' fc'I he " rVrtc,! In his' mother's nfms.
mi- .uiiu-ii.k .IUK"ii iiB'i o kix-i . tix a mere haw. romlnir from Kilt.
lliri- minreil arnmnt.1 with tTnllerlnr . . . . . -.. - -.
llenry Alklre. until these men scrv
In the Union army, as members
Company. II 4th M. S. M. Cava!
. t u "(."" . i" .?. movetl to .Mound Ully, where he con
via tiiiu r u iiicir mi' iiiiiy iuui . ......l.. -..-r.i...i
School sudors n? this company that they "i'S ', ' , - "7
auditorium.
was remleretl
Invocation, Hev. . C. Johnson,
llending minutes, .Secretary.
Duett. Mrs. Kunkcl and Mrs. l'hll
Hp-
Kcnnris or commuters.
Popcr, "Home Help for
ill
Promptness," Mrs. Thatcher. near the fieorRe Sliultz place, north f i)0r. in Unit citv In the ilti'tli vear
Hie discussions on "Home Help for .Harlow, and Zeb has stave. In that irTS -... "l cll' "' lnt WMh iar
School Children." were ver' interest- section ever since. He married FdUa-. nn laivh "0 1KH1 he married
Ing and exceedingly beneficial. bcth Smith, of Mgclow-. In 1886, Ju.t Hal,c Cook, of this 'city, who died
Too much home study I, undeslr- after Ids niuster out of sen-Ice. They September III, IH1M1. There were four
able, because the child needs recrea- have three children: S. I)., of Prince- ..ir..,. i.t- n.i. .,.r.,.-i in...
tlon ann sleep. lieamng aiouu in tne ton, Kansas: it. w., or Melvln, Kan- ui10 rnnev lr V M
home Is ven- beneficial. The parent sns. ami a . Uuthter. Mrs. Hon. II m. t,.,.... ... I J.V . "Inn.f?.. ..; '.J..
can, also, help In drill woik In arith- can. who Is at home. They have aeven wh, Vulvei la
metic. I he cniiil snouiii dv'IisiiiM 'rtmlchili ren. ' i Kanms citv s niVi.,li.-r , iiin
to do his own studying. I George Shultx Is also n Hoo.ler. (,n i n?.1.ii U 'ilcplc,ftl:fjr -'
In tho paper on " ranllness," the having come on the earth In Wayne' h-i v0ttlo Cook xlnter nf hi
chief causes were stated as being county. February, 17, lrVJ!, ond is "eVcose.1 wife. Tho iurWvcs hlni
County Court.
The fount v court was In session n
few days last week and disposed of
A Utile nusiness, put win close up us
nfTnlrs of the venr. preparatory
to the retirement of Judges Ilnlscr
and Nonnnn, the latter part of tho
month, when they will be succeeded
by Curtis Whltmer and W. J. Itan-ilnll.
The court inndc several orders per
taining to tho erroneous assessments
of parties.
Kd A. Dunham, circuit clerk, filed
eight criminal cost bills; total, $27.1ii,
He also tiled abstract of fees collect
ed for November: total. S129.05.
Tho bond of Sebourn Carson, treas
urer-elect, for $50,000 revenue and
$80,000 for school moneys was filed
and approved.
J. If. Drown, constable-elect of
Iwls township, and John Itobcrts.
Clay township, filed their bonds for
.,uuu eacn, ana Oliver .. Simmons,
as constable of llcnton township, Hied
his bond for $3,000.
J. K. Illcvlns. G. II. M In ton and D.
II. Minton tiled petition with the
court, asking for tho creation of a
drainage district In sections 8, 0, 10,
17, In township CO, rango 30. Tho
cauy was continued.
Speeding.
Oregon has an automobile speed
limit law. but tho way the city offi
cers permit the auto driven to go
through our' city, ono would supnoso
they know nothins of the law. With
tho coming of tho paved streets. It
seems some car drivers imagine uiey
have an additional license to Increase
their speed to the' capacity of their
car. Seme day, unless this' ordinance
is enforced, some life will be the
penalty (exacted by some of these
speeders, and the neglect of the offi
cer or officers. Such neglect always
costs heavily, and remedies ever fol
low too late. There is no excuse for
this shameful neglect 'to enforce the
law. Enforce the law. An example
of ,$100 fine In one or two casei
will iena greauy vo remeay loo evil
ana save a uie or two.
w at- 1
"5
t ii tp.ru VQuiih i. w .r-..-ssssssssssa: . inshssstssasssssmr i- v r i 'L&sssssssBissBsrmsssssssssssissr.isssssssK-f Kf i
SOLDI tR
Ntjvt Snnhnit IHwplle the effort of llimln to che:k the Teuton. Mnrkennen's fon e piKheil on In Itoiimniiln until lluklmrest, the former uiU
itcrrs iispsiiuis ui, unil occupied: Un Intestment seemed a slsnnl fur King t.'iiii.lnntlnes soldlein In ilniie to wn-sk vencennee on the follower
Of the Week riirmcr llrwk I'remler enlneliw; enllemenl prernlleil nt rditonlkl, tlrreio. the nillllnry bae of tlio allies. The tlrltUh eiitd
net crlxls riitne to n hind, and Asiiiilth rcli;neil ns Kiemler: the klnit nuked l.lnvil llturue to ronnnic t n new rntilnei ulili him.
self as premier. The ItrllMi uuvy nlo underwent a thninie when Sir David Hcntly wiih clien i-niiitiiniid of the fleet to sueeeeil AiliiilnilJfll..., who Imi nine
flmt cea lunl of the aitmlnilly. Henry lan Dike's tvduiuttloti ns Amerlinti mlnliter to tlio NetherlntiiN ninie ns n siiriirl: John W. CnrrptL f.irnii.r
minister to Argentina, will pmlmbly get the pwt. Kcw York cave a royal reception to Its track regiment, the Heteuth, rvturiiliig from the bonier.
Found Guilty,
John Fink, choiged with the mur
er of Fred C. Glllis, formerly of
lonnil Citv. the homesteader for
whom lie wns working In tho Hoy
cllon. Iilnho, nenr lwlston. on
June '11. 1UI0, wns on the witness
stnnd st'Veral hours, December 7, and
told his story of hismovements on
the day of the murder, and underwent
u tnrrvl!!. croKs.exiiminntion. Ho
claimed to know iiothinR nt nil as to
how tilllis, whose Inxly was found tit
iiime limner, when1 ho anil the tic
'emlnnl stnrtcd cutting pols on the
lay in xin muruor, canio tiierr, say
.,tr he left liecniMC tlio irround was
loo wet for him U do nny fencing.
tie conlruuiclcii the ery strong tes
timony given against hint by Harry
minis, who nl.o roimer y lived nt
Forest Citv. The stutc's special coun
sel was unalilc to get any direct and
po.ltlvo replies from the witness who
jiroei to be exceedingly ndroit.
Attorney ieoihti u Clinton, oi
Mound City, was engaged In tho
enso, nnil nnslslcd the state In tho
prosecution.
loiter returns brings the Informa
tion that tlio lurv brouirht In n ver
dict of third dcRrce munlcr against
I I UK.
WITH SICKI.F. KKKN.
John I'rters.
mure, wnero no wiih Horn MetiiemiHtr
Ol " IS'.? llnr.. I.n IUo.1 nn.l I..
mnnhood, and nttended the old school
ry. l.... i ,,i .. ... i.
i' nviri ioo runii' .i iiuip uuii. in1 re-
"'DIscuMlon Kiml"of Opportunities of iirepn. and JudW W. Cott: ri'ptah'c olMccr A f'w '' w eeks "oko"
for Study the Home Should Supply," of ForU IWerawmt la Ka nsas CUy ;
Prof. Knsnr. ,..,, . 'cH Smith was lrn In l leyd coun- lllHeul treatment, his case being a
Paper, Tardiness." M Is. To, 'I Ity. Indiana, Jtme 4. 18:i. and came clironl(. ollc. , t0
Discussion. "How I dct My Chll- to Holt county with his parents, An-'mii.. unii Thurmlnv of fn.t w.-ck
drenOrr on Time." Mrs. Geo Murray, drew Smith ami wife, In 1856. and X' -r 1? "C.assV aVyt
"How to Create a .School Pride In they located In ! ire nw townsl In i... .r i.i' i-.I. y- ..
set vices were held, rnnducteil by the
pastor, i lev. t:. t. iinnii, nssisieil liy
llicv. T. A. Clngett. The Interment
was in the Maple Grove cemetery.
Monument For A .Good Town.
Grit.
Vim.
Push.
Snap.
F.ncrgy.
Schools.
Morality.
Churches.
Harmony.
Cordiality.
Advertising.
Talk About It.
Write About It.
Siienk Well Of It.
Healthy I .oration.
Help To Improve It.
Advertise In Its Papers.
Good Country Tributary.
Patrnnke Its Merchants.
Fleet Good Men To Ofllce.
Ilonert Competition In Prices.
Make The Atmosphere Healthy.
Faith F.xhlbltcd lly Good Works.
Fire all croakers, loafrrs and dead
beats. I.ct your object bo the wel
fare, grow tli and promotion nf your
inwn ami ns peonie. Mipnon vour
'"Mow to cVcMe a ScMTrhM wondeVfully well prVarw mn'fo"r ZerVV MCIK of lllffiienaniro l.e'oneof'
in Promptness." the following sug- one of so many years.' He came to a&r In Sue " V'inkston Mrs T them v w fie bom"t whh n II
Restlons were given: A great deal Holt county In life, and planted his H liufns lrs. A I) I'lner nnil M vour h Z II n't think thai
tle'-llgratt sKfthlna ISJEi'S ! MUlda'liil ,V
I.. . . ... I
crcato a riculrc for promptnun.
land, nil of which
City.
'II... .... S 11. t.. -fi.. I
UoC7'.Vi.'P n,rL.. , ,. ,Wl'l.;, ''J for tM n Sulunlay last. Dwein- G.hhI Piece of Work,
leoks af er to keep himself out pf lKr !l, brief smUes being held ot the ' When Overseer Will Film,
devilment, lit mnnleil taunt, ilniigh- cemeterv bv FMer II II llmvuon of r i" . , ii V i t
ter of Jesso Steele. In 1H?J. nn.l .they f, V-1? , J, nW'0"' f . 'nk., VT .''
Down at the Icpot,
Tho month of November was an ac
tive one down at our local depot, and
now mat tre street paving lias come mg, or Up
to an end for the present, the rush will irrnndchlld.
'Itzmnurlre,
thev it , 'm i . i ' '""""I i ret uiy, mnKcs up ins muni
have two d.v.ghters. Mrs. John Spw,"V'" fn .n was i mll bv his ".' , VTK nml, r'" ly. " mW
of Forest City, and Mrs . Cora llrowni 'wif ' 1 ofUj!m! nlC W 'a id . a ghter MU oTcMI e
"1' H Jm,"" I.. V"L 'JT !. C. M. I'rivllt. .fn'.l aon, !...?, un. S ,, 1'J '1 "ff I Jolt .en"
1 II. "HI iniiiH- nil' in i.ia u .liiiu l Vii. III..IL,.... ... .. .... .
not be so great, and Agent Morgan finely riiilppcil with a delightful resl
nnil ins nanu ni nssisianis win nave uenco, nmi the nest nnil lip-to-naie
longer breathing spells. The paving bans and other nutbul'dlngs. He bits
meant the brininng In of Ht rnr loads been nn extensive entile rnlser. In his
nf stone, 8:) rnr loads of sand and 3!) time, but is not in the buslnes now as
of cement. In addition to tills large extensively as formerly, but he has
amount of rock, Curtis Whltmer fur- enough to keep him from the list of
ulshed a vast nmotint from hjs iuarry Idlers. In order to reduce his tax
nnil. frontier, tin.1 final of linen. .itrrnont. tin nnvn onrlt nC lita ilnoi.li.
I lie amount or trciglit nunuicil iliir- tern n rurm tills year, nnil itotwltli- nn, him with, one in iiiomi '"""mn ', iniin uuiiy kiviok
nif VoViiiiilijir IVftd H lfl! MAI nnlimt. .Inmlliit. Mil. f.illittjir
ami there were 6.1 lomlnl rnrn rrcclv- hln piirne ntrin8 the other ilay for an fWciUi Iohh Ih ever felt the llrt to the mail, munclinir It up
It fH I! .......... I ...
Mrs. A. D. Piper, of Unnsas Lily, ond i .mi ,lrt luf l...lt.l Lo done to
iirotiier-ln-law, l.int.t Cook ami wife, improve tlio Forest City hill condi
or .Mound Cit. ,nlli ni p Wl.lt nll(11t !,! Wl)rk
to bring nboiit thei-e eonilltions. Ho
did not only woik himself, and he ran
oung. do this when he makes up his mind
Tlinre linked away. croKidnir the t". but lie. put n fnivo of men to work
Itiver of Life, In Kbiimis City, Knn- t" reduce the step embankment, nnil
ed, and 40 sent out a total of lO.'l
cars, lhere were S,'J18 passengers
carried; 1,300 gallons of cream and
30,73(1 pounds of express carried.
The new passenger conch was re
ceived and lias been doing business
whenever tho business ileninmleil Its
use. It Is of the triple combination
rtyle passenger, smoker and bug
gage apartments, with toilet.
1 no nusiness none miring Novem
ber, 1010, Is classified ns follows:
Lumber 3 Granite.
Coal 11 I.imo
even $!00.
Peace Overture.
The Teutonic Allies declare them
selves ready to discuss peace. Also
they are ready to continue the war,
If the Kntente Allies do not find tho
time ironltlou for juch n dlM-usslon.
The nnnounrement was made -by
flmnnllir lliiticlw In n ........1. I.a. I relntlVIM. Iltlt tl) ft IlllL'O fifl'lo (if
jfore the special session of the ItelHi-1 former asxoclntcs and friends In our
sing, Tucwiay or tius"vccK. uer-.couiuy.
many is willing that the bmiiiilarles . '" -W ?non was norn in aii
in ccry roinmuiilly, .nicely, nnil while the clevutlon has
Kllu ,'lny Mui'ion was ralseil In our not lu'en reduced, the rond lius been
county, nml grew to a lieuutiful greatly Improveil.
young womanhood In the old .Miirion 'I'lie in-eis nf this great thorough-
Kliool district. Her life wan a Ix-nu- fnro will feel very grateful to Mr,
tiful one, made udilitionul mi by her I'ltunnuiirn fur his excellent work,
lung, sweet Christ an .lire: her do- nml we (piPlinxiin the remark. W
voted mariieil life mid sweet, pelf- Fitr.inaiirlce knows what he Is doing
Ktcrilli'lng iniitlietliouil. Her going, along ine lines uil tne time,
not only nrlugs n keen pnlgnnncy to
nut to a migu circle
lltlurnid From Texas Trip.
George S. Luken, one of our rent
.1.
Chatt..
Limn Dust.
Sand 11!
Cattle 10
Asphalt 2
Flour 1
Oemcnt
Wagons
Wooil,
1 'should be restored ns they were at drew county, Mo Miry .'!', 1875; died estnto agents, and the party who
1 the beginning of tho war. Neutral i" KnnsiwClty. Kansas, tit the lleth- went with him to the Mission Coun-
uny iinspitui, iieceiiiner i, r.iiu, ngin 'r .m , iratmii nnu niuiniuy
1 , power nro to deliver the terms,
1 i II. K. Hasness. of MeAllen. IIII.
Oil 3 dalgo county, Texas, has tlie thanks
Mono u pi many menus here, to w iom ho
Cont, Outfit... l.sent siimnlcs of line grupo fruit,
tl years, II months nml 16 days. levelling of lnt week, returned home
She ciimo to Holt county with lior luesnay oi tins wet-K. inose irom
arents, liohert and Frances Marion, Oregon and vicinity who went were:
Total ,
FOUWAltDKD:
Hogs 31 Corn'.....
Apples 1 Li mo Dust.
Hay ! Cattlo
Total
Married,
At noon, Tuesday, December 12,
1010, nt the homo of the bride's moth
er, Mrs. John I'lnktieliier, near Gra
ham, Mo., Mr. Amadoro M. Yount, nf
Craig, and Anna M. Finkbclncr, of
Graham, wcro united in marriage.
Key. W. L. Alcyer, pastor or the Ger
man M. K. church, this city, spoke
the words that made their hearts neat
as one. After tho ceremony, a fine
dinner Was served, which all did en
joy very much. The young couple
received many valuable presents.
The groom and the bride are favor
ably krtown, and have the quality of
making tho best of life. These young
people will leave after the holidays
for Cherry county, Nebraska, where
the groom has a homestead.
Miss Emma Hoffmann was vis
iting with relatives in St. Joseph,
Tuesday of this week.
nn
n 1H70. and located in wlint is now Phillip Schlotrhauer and wife, Will
'raised In his section of Texas, Theylknown ns tho Murlon district. Hero Hnnna and wife. Will C. Stevenson
im wcru ceriainiy line, tieoriro ft, i,uk-ibi,u ki1" u joihik oinannuuu, woi "M,,.."i,i - v.mhvu..v ,.i,.. ,.,,u .u,,
lens, who was down there with a party became tho wife, of Kdwln G. Young, w. iiienn. we are informed that
linf land-seekers brought tlio fruit of Oregon, September X, 1K0O, and tlio fol owing aro thinking of invest-
uy IIIIS Ullion SIX Cllllliren wcro UOm, "" nn veunon, mil in o uim
four of whom with tho husband nur- Phillip Sehlotzhnucr. This land
vivo tho surviving children nro: Is in lllldago county, Texas,
Corwln K., aged It); Glenn S., aged nml Is nenr McAllen, near whero II.
ICj Frances F. aged 12, and Florence K. Hasness nnd family oro located.
Ailnllno. m'eil 7 innnths ' She I. nlso They saw Harry and family, and re-
survived by her nurents, one brother, port that they nro all well and satis
John O., of tho Marlon district: four lied with tho country. Horry has ol-
sisters, Mrs. Jlollic Denny, or Kansas renuy piantcii several acres oi cau-
jirs. Aut .curry, or. "ago.
1 back,
4 Senator Jnmes A. Tteeil. thrnuirh
his private secretary, Don Hunt, has
40
our sincere thanks for a number of
volumes of the bulletins of the
Uurcau of American Kthnotoev. .Wo
certainly appreciate them.
C. E..Notcr,
Christian Endeavor met Sunday
evening, at 0:30. As tho leader, Miss
lilnnrho llodgin, could not be present,
sho had Luther Dawson take her
place, and a very interesting meeting
was held. x
Tho subject for next Sunday evo
nlng is, "Dig Jobs Awaiting Us,"
with Ilryan llcnton as leader.
The Junior choir that -was organiz
ed Tuesday night, will do a great deal
of good in the meetings, if all take
part and help sing. ItEPOIlTKR.
'Mrs. Ernest Stlth and llftla
daughter returned home Sunday last,
from a few days! visit with her par
ents, David Johnson and wife, of WaV
thena, Kansas.
Citv. Kansas:
Oreiron: Mrs. William Markham. nf
Columbus, Nchiuska; Mrs. Edward
Davidson, or near Oregon.
Mr. and Mrs. Young resided In
Orciron scverul years, nnd later mov
ed to Oklahoma, then to St. Joseph,
and then to nhenuan county, Kansas,
which wus their homo at the time of
her death.
Sho united with tlio M. E. church,
while a resident of our city, and lived
steadfast in the faith.
Tho body was brought tcCils city,
on Saturday, 0th' Instant, where it
rested at the home of her slster-in-
Sunday afternoon, when it was taken
to the M. E. church, where she was
a regular attendant during her resi
dence here, where impressive funeral
ii...
roawu bv utu .iviiiv w mv. m.m),-h. uiii niowj jura, .huh ..w.uwm..
law, Mr. and Mrs. Paul Frye, un tiki of Maltland; James Homecker and
Attended the Funeral.
The followinsr relatives from a (lis
tance were here In attendance at tho
funeral of Mrs. Ed G. Young, Sunday
last: Mrs. William Markham, Co
lumbus. Nebraska: Sam Young.
Plalnvillc, Kansas; Mrs. Robert
Nash, Mrs. D. A. Young and Mrs. S.
M. Herbert, St. Joseph, Mo.; Robert
and Burr Young, of St. Louis, Mo.;
Mrs Robert Marlon and sranddaua-h-
ter,- Miss Edith Denny, of Kansas
Kansas; Airs. jacoD nornecaer.
A ttracllijr' Windows.
Most all of our local merchants
have prepared most pleasing and at
tractive holiday window displays, and
tho mystery' is why one should have
a uesire to go auroait to buy their
holiday goods, when a look alone In
these windows will convince nny one
of fastidious tastes that they can
llnd something suitable as a gift for
any person, no matter what their con
dition In life.
Many of these merchants have not
only something Impressive to tell ou
through "the window pane." but they
make it the more impressive through
the columns of The Sentinel, and it
will be well for our readers to nottco
their invitations to come and select
from their wnrcs such presents as
lll, in their judgment, bring Joy and
happiness to those dear to them.
They arc not Indifferent as to wheth
er or not iou Rive them vour trarto
on the contrary, they want it, and
intlte you to come and trade with
them through the columns of Tho Old
Sentinel.
Shower for llrlde-Klect.
Miss IMIth Ilucher proved herself
n very charming hostess, last Friday
afternoon, December 8, when she en
tertained for Miss Ncllc Smith, a De
cember bride-elect, In form of a linen
shower. The niests wcro received at
three o'clock and various forms of en
tertainment were Indulged In. Tho
most chnrmlng, however, was the
writing of a story, the tltl being
"A Courtship Leading to Partner
ship." .Miss Ilertha Reynolds receiv
ed the pHio, which was u beautiful
hand-pnlnteil lemoumle pitcher, which
she presented tn the bride-elect.
A delicious three-course Ian
luncheon wns served, and upon tho
second course wns found a beautiful
ping carnation as a favor.
After luncheon the guests retired
to the dining room, which was ex
trepiely fetching amid Its draperies
of pink, green and white, the bridal
i-oiors. I lie nriile tnuini there many
be.-iutiful gifts, which sho appreciated
very much.
Veteran Apple Grower U Visiting
llouiton.
C. C. Hell, veteran nnnle grower
unil duller nf llnouville, Mo., Is in tho
Ity liiiiklng nrter properly interests!
nml will spcuil several days here.
Mr. Hell brniiL'ht some of h s liiolceit
stock to Ira P. Jones, who looks after
legal aHalrs for him. Two Itcautle
ure the Grimes Gulden and tho tally
tipple. Tho latter Is the highest pric
ed apple grown in the world. It Is
smuller thnn a SuUiimn urango and
brings $5 the bushel.
Mr. le snvs there s much criti
cism of 'the commission man in con
nection with the high cost of living,
little, ir any, or which Is deserved.
He suys whenever u grower, of apples
or potatoes or other produce has a
shipment dumped, it Is duo to bad
packing nnd not lo the greed or tno
commission man in endeavoring to
nilvanco the price of tlio remaining
stock. Chronicle, Houston, Texas,
December !), 1010.
Hot Lunch Counter.
Tho Hennlngcr Drug Co., hns add
ed a hot lunch counter to their al
ready well equipped establishment.
They nro serving hot bouillons, hot
drip eolfee, chicken sandwiches, waf
ers, Vtc, ond they are certainly fine.
ir your cook is away, or tne weather
bad, or you do not have tho time
to go homo for a lunch, step In and
get a lunch at this place. Tha'chargo
is small, and tho satisfaction great,
besides tho good results you will at
tain from one of these lunches. '
Tho lad os arc particularly Invited
to call and try this dainty lunch
sliced chicken sandwiches, delicious
hot chocolate, with whipped cream, or
a cup of chocolate cream dip coffee.
...I. .I... 4M.n..t.ln. Hfw U
I.UL', u. viiwy wnnaiu)i .. mw. m...
Al VanWormer, of Craig; Mrs. Lucy
Ramsey and Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Pol-
iock.
Seven Cars of Stock Shipped.
Tuesday of this week was a fairly
lively day at the Oregon Stock Yards,
seven cars of hogs and cattlo being
shipped that day by .tho following
parties! W. A. S. Derr, Paul Ilucher,
Spencer Boswell, Paul Frye, E. M.
iienuer ana Clare Stevenson, eacn
shipping a car load of hogs, and
James Ramsey a car load of cattle.
Dr. J. L. Hogan reports the fol
lowing birth: To S. W. Smith abd
wife, cf tha White school district,
December 3, 1916, a son; to Marshall
Clark and wife, of Forbes township, av
ioo, December 8, 1916.
&tiat!L.,
