TIME
HAHKH, VERMONT, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1910.
1'RICE, ONE CENT.
VOL. XX NO. 232.
THE BARRE
DAILY
ENTENTE GIVES
SAFE CONDUCT
Out of Consideration of Rep
resentations by Amer
ican Government
AUSTRIAN MAY COME
WITH NO MOLESTATION
British Foreign Office Made
the Announcement of
Decision To-day
London, Dec. 15. The entente power
have decided to grant safe, conduct to
Count Tarnowski Von Taruow, recently
appointed Austro-Hungarian ambassa
dor to the United .States. The foreign
office made this announcement to-day,
Baying that the entente had decided to
grant safe conduct in consideration oi
representations made by the American
government. Ambassador rage has been
notified.
GRILSE RETURNS
TO PORT UNDER
OWN POWER
Canadian Torpedo Boat tost Six Men
During the Storm in Which She
Was Believed to Have
Been Lost
Halifax, X. S., Dec. 15. The Canadian
torpedo boat Grilse, formerly the Ameri
can yacht Winchester, which was be
lieved to have been lost with all hands
off the coast in the storm Tuesday night,
came into the harbor of Shelburne, 100
miles southeast of here, under her own
power last night.
Six members of her crew perished in
the storm and a number of others were
injured. The remainder, including all
the officers were, reported safe.
GREEK GOVERNMENT
ACCEPTS ULTIMATUM
As It Was Presented By the Allies, Ac
cording to Athens Dispatch
to London.
London, Dec. 15. The Greek govern
ment has accepted the ultimatum pre
sented by the entente, says a dispatch
from Athens to the Central Xews agency.
RUMANIA'S PREMIER
HAS RESIGNED, TOO
Last of Cabinet is Reported By an Aus
trian Paper to Have Quit
the Service.
London, Dec. 15 The resignation of
Premier Bratiano of Rumania is reported
by the Budapest newspaper Avillag,
quoted in an Kxehange Telegraph com
pany dispatch from Copenhagen.
A recent dispatch from .Tassay, the
provisional capital of Rumania, said that
nil the members of the cabinet except
the premier had resigned..
THREAT AT PARIS.
French Paper Tells of Attack by 40,000
"Best Germans."
Taris, Dec. 15. A German attack on
Lassigny, that part of the front nearest
to Paris, was mnde Monday in great
force, says La Liberte's correspondent
with the French armies. It appears to
have been concerted to coincide with Von
Jlcthmann-Hollweg's note, probably with
a view to impressing the French by a
local success.
"The Germans brought together about
40,000 men from the best divisions," adds
the correspondent, "and concentrated cor
responding quantities of artillery. The
attack was preceded by an intense bom
lirdment lasting for hours.
"Hie French were taken by surprise,
end received the assaulting waves with a
fire from their three-inch guns and ma
chine guns, tearing the' ranks terribly.
A barrier lire thrown to the rear of the
Germans caught the supporting reserve.
"The Germans reached the French
trenches over a frontage of 300 yards,
but an immediate counter attack enabled
the French to regain the trenches. Only
a few survivors of the attacking columns
escaped. Most of them were killed after
stubborn resistance.
"The Germans renewed the assault an
hour after without success. The French
VV heavy artillery dispersed the reserves as
they came up."
BOYCOTT ON BUTTER.
Will Be Started in New York City Next
Wednesday.
Xew York. Dec. 15. A boycott
gainst butter will lie started in this city
next Wednesday, continuing for thn-e
-eks or longer, it wa announced last
night by Josejih Hsrtigan, commission
er of weight and measure and sn-retary
of the mayor's committee on food sup
ply. Housewives will be asked to econ
omize in the use of the product, it was
stated, instead of beinir urged not to buy
it at all.
"Xevcr before in the history of the
trade have there been such shortage in
twitter and -ergs." Hartigan Mid. "The
public nhoull asi-l in stabilizing the
butne. This it ran do by economy in
tMU-ihasinz-"
ENTENTE CONSULTATIONS
HOLD UP PEACE MOVE
Further development regarding
the peace proposal of Germany
and her allies are awaiting the
consultations and decisions of tho
entente government as to the of
ficial action to be taken. Nothing
definite in this connection may I
expected before next week, the
probable occasion being the ap
pearance of Lloyd-George before
the House of Commons on Tues
day. DRASTIC REGULATIONS
GO INTO EFFECT
American Railroads, Backed By Inter
state Commerce Commission, Use
Emergency Measures.
Washington, 1). C, Dec. 15. Drastic
regulations adopted by the railroads
went into effect to-day with the approval
of the interstate commerce commission
as an emergency measure to relieve the
shortage of freight cars which for months
has been a brake on the country's com
merce and affected the high cost of liv
ing. The first regulation here provides for
increased demurrage charges to con
signees who fail to unload cars after the
usual two days' allowance. Another or
der increases the daily rental paid by
railroads to each other for cars about 70
per cent.
RUSSIANS BURN TOWNS
AS THEY RETREAT
Berlin Official Statement Reports the
Capture of Buzeu and 4,000 More
Prisoners in the Past
Few Days.
Berlin, bv wireless, Dec. 15. The Rus
sians are continuing their retreat in Ru
mania, burning villages as they go, to
day's official announcement reports. The
Rumanian town of ltur.eu has heen cap
tured by the invaders. In the hist two
days 4,1100 more prisoners have been tak
en. Additional Bulgarian forces have
crossed the river Danube near Futesti,
acrs from Tchneravoda.
"WE HAVE RIGHT TO SPEAK"
Says Senator Stone Discussing Possibili
ties of Peace.
St. Louis, Dec. 15. The right of a neu
tral which has suffered from the effects
of the European war, particularly the
right of the United States, to intiate a
movement for peace was to initiate a
last night before the League to Enforce
Peace by Senator Stone, chairman of
the Senate foreign relations committee.
"Since the war almost, has from the
beginning, resulted in continuing offen
sive attacks on the rights and dignity of
this sovereignty and in inflicting incal
culable injury to our national interests
all of which we have borne with pa
tience because of our friendship for the
nations involved," said Senator Stone,
"it seems to me that after enduring
these attacks and suffering these losses
for nearly two and a half years, with
no end yet in sight, that we have a right,
without regard to any question of sym
pathy or humanity, but solely on our
own account and to safeguard our own
interests, to approach the combatants as
a mutual friend and open negotiations
with a view to the re-establishment of
normal international conditions.
"Our relations to the combat are such,
and our interests are so involved that I
think we have a right to speak a right
so clear as to entitle us to speak with
out asking nnd without just offense. We
would not speak impertinently as inter
meddlers, but as a friend who suffered
grievously and innocently from the ruth
less acts of war."
The senator declared he wished it dis.
tinctly understood thnt he spoke on his
own pergonal responsibility, but said he
later might speak "in another forum"
on whether any neutral or group of neu
trals should "attempt any affirmative ac.
tion to end the present war." lie, said
he would not discuss the wisdom or un
wisdom of an approach of the belliger
ents with peace proposals but merely of
the propriety ot ttie right, ana poinieu
out that distinguished men in this coun
try and in the warring countries have
warned that such a movement would not
only be futile but offensive.
FRENCH WAVES BEATEN BACK.
Failed in Attacks East of the Meuse as
Also at Hill 304.
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 15. On the
Verdun front yesterday the French made
three attempts to recapture the trenches
taken recently by the Germans on hill
Xo. 304, the war office announces. East
of the Meuse the French launched re
peated attacks, advancing in waves. The
assaults were repulsed.
ZONE SYSTEM ACCEPTED
By House Committee on Second-Class
Mail Matter.
Washington. D. C Dec. 15. The post
al annrAnriatinn lull Ha A !vrpfH fin tn-
dav bv theHouse committee, retains the
nrovision establishing the rones for sec
ond-class matter, designed to raise the
postage rates on periodicals. The bill
will be reported immediately.
LIQUOR CIRCULARS
Will Be Barred If Proposed Bill
Goes
Through.
Wa-hington. D. C, IHv. 15. The bill
prohibiting the transmission of liquor
advertisements by mail to anyone except
licenst-d liquor dealer or agents was fa
vorably reported to-dsy by the House
postoflice committee. It is aimed at the
so-called mail order liquor business in
dry territory.
LLOYD-GEORGE IMPROVED.
Premier Will be Able to Appear in House
of Commons Tuesday.
London, Dec. 15.-Premier Lloyd
Oorge was much better this morn'ng ami
hi every expectation of bfinjr able to
'go before the !me of Commons Tues
'day. In the meantime he will remain
indoor.
GREAT LOSSES
IN WHEAT
May Delivery Sent Down
'More Than 10 Cents
a Bushel
PEACE REPORTS
CAUSED DECLINE
Prop
osal for Universal Dis
armament was Chief
Reason
Chicago, Dec. 15. Wheat crashed down
in value to-day on account of peace re
ports. The first sales showed a fall in
some eases of eight and five-eighths cents
a bushel, May wheat touching $1.5.
Within an hour the louses had been wid
ened to ten ami five-eighths cents a bush
el, May wheat tumbling to $1.46, as
compared with prices a month ago. Tho
market at this stage was down more
tliun 45 cents a bushel in December de
livery. What chiefly sent the prices whirling
downward was the statement authorized
by the German embassy at Washington
that one of tho most important subjects
for discussion at the peace parley would
be universal disarmament.
CROPS BELOW AVERAGE.
Both Corn and Wheat Are Less, Accord
ing to Estimates.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 13. Final esti
mates of this veiir's production of the
country's principal farm crops, as an
nounced" by the department of agricul
ture to-dav are: Corn, 2. .".') .'M 1,000 bush
els, compared with 2.73:2.457.000, the
average from 1010 to 1M; wheat, C39
HKH.000 bushels, compared with 728,225,-
noo, the five-year average.
VERMONT GRANGE ENDS.
Several Matters Were Taken Up at Rut
land Thursday,
Rutland. Dec. 1.1. Just prior to the
adjournment of the 4."th annual meeting; the statement was issued was due to the
of the Vermont state grange yes rday j board's action and said that any "flur
the new officers of the association weresrv" at that time was confined entirely to
installed under the direction of A. S.
Morgan of Milton and Mrs. E. J. Rise
of Westminster.
There were numerous reports of com
mittees and several important resolu
tions adopted. One thanked United
States Senator Carroll S. Page for his
efforts in behalf of the vocational edu
cational bill, another approved the pro
ject of the Patrons' Co-operative Disabil
ity association, Inc., while another in
dorsed the action of the National grange
as to equal suffrage and control of the
liquor traffic, the latter by a stand for
national prohibition.
L. R. Burr, chairman of the mileage
committee, reported that the officers of
the Btate grange had traveled 28,363
miles during the past year while lec
tures covered 578(5, all at a cost of $1,
536.79. A resolution of thanks to the Cen
tral Vermont and Rutland railroads for
special rates, to the citizens of Rutland,
the Rutland Business Men's association,
the press and others, who assisted in
making the annual meeting a success,
was adopted, as was a resolution com
mending the state board of education in
its selection of Dr. Ilillcgas as com
missioner of education.
The finance committee, headed by A.
W. Foote of Cornwall, reported a per
manent fund of $13,344.7! and recom
mended that the lecturer be limited to
expenses of $700, the same as last year.
Committee- on Agriculture.
The following report and resolution of
the committee on agriculture, which was
adopted, was one of the most important
of the entire week:
"Never in the history of the present
generation has agriculture occupied a
position so nearly pre-eminent among
the industries as it does to-day. Ab
normal conditions at hoie and abroad
have made it necessary to husband ev
ery agricultural resource, that the people
of' the earth may be fed. That there are
likely to come great changes by the sud
den termination of the war, there can
be no doubt, and we should so conduct
our business as to be fully prepared for
such changes.
"We view with alarm the suggestion
put forth in the editorial in the Rutland
Herald of December 13, whereby it is
proposed to consolidate the state forest
ry department and the department of
livestock commissions and the depart
ment of agriculture, all under the com
missioner of agriculture.
"We believe the duties and field of op
portunity of the commissioner of ag
riculture are Sufficient to require the
entire time of that office, and the state
should not subordinate a department in
itself so important as that of forestry
which has been conducted efficiently and
in the interests, both of the farmers and
the large timber owners and has come
to be considered one of the most impor
tant departments of the state.
"We lelieve that every encouragement
should be given to the introduction of
purebred livestock on our farms, and
looking to that end we recommend the
passage of the following resolution:
'Whereas, There is a gTOwng tenden
cy among farmers of the state to im
prove their herds by the introduction of
purebred animals, and
"Whereas, In some instances a grave
injustice has been peretrated by ex
cessive valuation of such animals for
taxation purposes; be it, therefore.
"Resolved. That the legislative com
ittee and individual members take such
steps as they possess to secure the en
actment of a" law that will hereafter lim
it the valuation ot such animals for pur
potes. of taxation to an amount not to
exceed 1'H wr head and be it further
rr-udved. that the s.vretary of the Ver
mont State grance send a copy of this
entire report to the chairman of the Sen
ate committee on agriculture at the next
session of legislature.'
NO REFLECTION INTENDED.
On Any Foreign Nations' Credit in Re
serve Board Decision.
Huston, Dec. 15. An ex phi mil ion of
the federal reserve board's recent warn
ing to American bankers against locking
up their money in foreign treasury bills
was made in a speech here last night by
W. P. G. Hardin;, governor of the board,
who reiterated the declaration that there
was no intention to reflect upon the cred
it of any nation. Soon after the board's
statements appeared short term British
treasury bills which had been offered for
sale in this country were withdrawn.
Mr. Harding spoke last night before
the Boston City club. " .
"I know," he said, "that there has been
criticism of the board's action in making
this statement, which has been given a
significance neither justified nor intend
ed in its reference to inventors. It was
not the purpose of the board to mako an
attack, either open or covert, upon the
credit of any government nor did it seek
in its statement to reflect upon any par
ticular obligation.
"In my opinion, what the board had
in mind when it made its brief reference
to investors was simply this: Ameri
can investors hare for i my years been
accustomed to buying industrial securi
tiesrailroad obligations to a great ex
tent. In dealing with these securities
certain well established rules have been
developed. The investor has acquired
the habit of requiring spo.ilic informa
tion regarding gross earnings, fixed
charges, net earnings, sinking funds, etc.,
and he insisted upon knowing definitely
whether- he is offered a first mortgage
bond, income bond, preferred stock or
common stock.
"It is the practice of every issuing
house when offering securities to state
all nece'sary details either over its own
signature or that of the head of the bor
rowing corporation. Nowhere is the im
portance of authentic' and complete in
formation more fully understood and ap
preciated than in Europe, both in Eng
land and on the continent, and prospect
ues for foreign loans contain all the
important facts relating thereto, in a
statement signed by an authorized rep
resentative of the foreign government
or by the issuing house, or in some cases
by Imth.
"The board sought merely to call at
tention to the fact that as this country
has become an important market for for
eign securities the same business-like
habits which are well established re
garding domestic loans, should le de
veloped in marketing foreign flotations."
Mr. Harding denied that the stiffening
of call money rates in Xew York after
loans secured by stock exchange collat
eral.
Discussing the inflow of gold into the
United States, he said the board did not
regard it as a danger except "the in
flowing gold should remain uncon
trolled and be permitted to become the
basW of undesirable loan expansions and
of inflation."
LENIENCE RULED
In Disposal of State Cases in Caledonia
County Court.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 15.In Caledonia
county court yesterday afternoon a ver
dict was returned for the plaintiff in the
case of William Cross vs. the Passump
sic Fibre 4 Leather Co. In a previous
trial the plaintiff was awarded $4,800
damages, which amount was upheld by
supreme court, but as question of respon
sibility arose the case was returned to
county court.
While the jury was out three cases on
the state docket were called and disposed
of. In the case of the State vs. Allen
Lee for larceny, the defendant pleaded
guilty and received a sentence of not
more than two nor less than a year and
a half in the houes of correction. Re
cause of previous good behavior the court
suspended sentence and placed the pris
oner in charge of the probation officer
for the term of sentence. He must also
pay the probation officer within six
months costs amounting to $30.
Albert Motto pleaded guilty to a charge
of grand larceny and was sentenced to
not less than two nor more than two
and a half years in. the house of correc
tion at Rutland. State's Atty. Norton
did not ask for a long term sentence, as
he said in his opinion, "a long term tend
ed to harden rather than to correct." es
pecially w-here the prisoner was a young
fuan. The prisoner was 21 years of age
and unable to talk English.
Peter Roeus, James Rrown and Wil
liam Burke appeared before Judge But
ler charged with breaking and entering
the store of George B. Wallace at East
Ryegate about a month ago. They took
some merchandise and a small amount of
change. The first two gave their resi
dence at Denver, Colo., and say they have
no parents living. The other boy comes
from Bridgeport, where he has parents
living. They are 21, 22 and ,20 years of
age, respectively.
State's Atty. Norton again suggested
leniency on account of age ami apkd
the court if a sent cms '"as imposed that
the prisoners be sent to Windsor instead
of to the house of correction. Sentence
was defered until to-day. R. R. Shields
was in charge of the prisoners' ca-e.
DINED WITH WILSON.
Gov. Gates and Goy.-Elect Graham Were
in the Party.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 13. The ex
ecutive budget system of Maryland, the I
only state with such a scheme of finan- ;
eial control, was given general approval i
yesterday in a discussion at the nmts
annual governors' conference. Its provis
ions were outlined by Gov. Harrington
of Maryland and Dr. Frank J. Goodnow.
president of Johi Hopkins university.
Gov. McCall of Massachusetts pointed
mtl l,ut aims the Kteaker of the Hnu-e
hail Wen snorn oi ma powrr in inr
flection of committees, federal appropria-
tions were larger than ever befre
Those attending the conference were
dinner guests last night at the Whit.-:
House. The goe-t included Govs. M'-
Call of Massachusetts. Spaulding of New i
Itmr!ihire. Gates of Vermont: liover-1
nnrcleet Graham of Vermont; Milliken.
Maine, and former Gnvemom Ko. M.is- j
arhiiftett. Qiiinby of New lUmp-hire. '
and Haines, Maim
HOLDING UP
PEACE STEPS
Until Premier Lloyd-George
Has Spoken Next
Tuesday
AMERICA'S PLANS
HELD IN ABEYANCE
President Wilson Is Said to
Be Favorable to That
Delay
Washington, D. C, Dee. 15. President
Wilson probably will not finally deter
mine on any formal steps in connection
with the peace proposals of the central
powers until after Premier Lloyd-George
has spoken in tho House of Commons
next Tuesday.
WIDOW AWARDED DAMAGES
In Case of Fatal Accident -at Jones Bros.'
Quarry.
Hearings in three accident eases in the
Barre granite district were conducted by
the state industrial accident board in
Harre Thursday afternoon. Chairman
Robert W. Simonds of St. Johnsbury and
F. S. Pease of Burlington came to the
city to review informally some of the
evidence in the cases, but when petition
ers asked for a formal hearing, the re
quest was granted. The hearings were
held in the Aldrich building, two in the
offices of McAllister & Kent and one in
the law office of J. Ward Carver.
Atty. Carver was the appearance for
the dependents of Ernesto Aja, a young
quarrvman who was killed in an accident
at Jones Bros.' quarry on Millstone hill
May 25. The dead man's wife and chil
dren are in Spain. The board decided
question of establishing a medium for
making payment to the dependents by
appointing Atty. Carver to act as trustee.
Mrs. Aja and her children are to receive
the sum of $4.45 for 2(10 weeks.
For the Royal Indemnity Co., Atty. S.
Hollister (fcickaon appeared in the case
brought by James Daniels, who sus
tained a broken arm at the Marr & Gor
don plant Dec. 15, 1015. Daniels peti
tioned for a lump payment and addition
al compensation on the ground of par
tial injury. Decision was reserved by
the board.
Frank Dubey, a Barre Town quarry
man, petitioned for a lump sura payment
and gave his reasons for the request.
No order was made by the board and the
easa was reserved for dcoisiog. ' Dubey
sustained a broken wriht and an injured
hip in an accident at Jones Bros.' quarry
June 0. The ease of Arthur Isabel, whose
death in October followed injuries re
ceived at the Boutwell, Milne & Varnum
quarry, was considered in brief and con
tinued. TO DETERMINE DEATH CAUSE
Hearing Was Held in Montpelier on Pet
er Mareotte- Case.
The Vermont public service commis
sion held a hearing at the State House
in Montpelier to-day in the case of Peter
Mareotte, who was killed in Montpelier
last fall after coming in contact with a
current from the Tenney company plant
while he was trimming a street lamp.
The hearing was held to determine the
cause of death.
Witnesses heard were Dr. C. h. Hunt,
vria. Wattiorinx Maffee. Mrs. P. H. Birr-
iren. Mrs. Patrick Ryan and Charles J.
Cookson. Dr. Hunt tesiinea to wins
called to the scene and to working over
the man in an effort to restore life. He
trave it as his opinion that Mareotte was
electrocuted. The three women wit
nesses, all of whom resided nearby, tes
tified to seeing the body in the road and
that it was lying on its face in the mud
nnd water.
Mr. Cookson. an officer of the Tenney
company, testified that the current was
ir nn tho lamn when he arrived,
but he thought that crossed wires may
have been responsible. Ite torn oi tne
safety appliances on the lamp and testi
fied that they were in- good condition.
The witness was not sure that Mareotte
was electrocuted but he advanced the
i itiat the man was thrown to the
UlCi'l . ...-. .
1 V.t- tin ahnck- nnd that he SuftO-
oat ftl while lyinj? fa'1 downward in tho
water nnd mud. -Mr. . ooksoh xnnnni
!. ..lw...t- frnnl 4llrt liinin WHS not BUfli
llir phi in rv ' " v f
cicnt to kill the man. The ordinary
voltage, he said, was ,sm.
The hearing had not been completed
when an adjournment was taken for din
...... 4l,n naafi Item? resumed at 1 :.10 this
afternoon. Because of the unexpected
length of the hearing, tne case oi .-ir.m-n
a:. .... Ai,,,t nolicr k Wells River rail
road, which was scheduled to be held in
Rarre this afternoon, was transierren to
Montpelier and will be taken up late to
day if there is time.
SUPT. HANN0N RESIGNS.
Has Been Head of Vermont Soldiers'
Home Over 15 Years.
Bennington, Dec. 15. Superintendent
Thomas Hannon of the ermont !oldiers
l h.r ha tendered his resignation
to take effect when his successor is ap
.i tIia luxrd of trustees has called
a meeting in Rutland on December 19
to till the vacancy.
j-.a 1fun..n ua. fdcotrd Kimorintend-
ent August 1, HK)1. succeeding Major R. ,
I . r.. w m nativ nf fnilfortl. I
,1. mm-. '- - - - - -
In 1HPJ he enlisted in Co. K of the !th
regiment of Vermont volunteirs and
wrved through the Civil war, being mus
tered out as orderly sergeant. He lo
cated in Rrattlehoro in If." ana was iot
24 year superintendent of a department
Jv Kater Oriran work. He waa one
of tbf original members of the Fuller
light battery of the Vermont National
t.uard. In l"! he was rommisionr
lirutenant-colonrl of the lt brigade, V.
X G.. and held the position until tne
hrisde was disbanded by act of the leg-
latnre in l!"1".
Ill health is th rrason for hi re-i!-
D at ion.
GOOD PROGRESS MADE
Toward Formation of Vermont National
Guard Band In Bane.
Satisfactory progress was made lat
evening toward the formation of a mili
tary band in Harre to be a part of the
headquarters company of the Vermont
Xational Guard; and it may be said also
that steps have been taken toward the
organisation of the other two depart
ments of the headquarters company, con
sisting of a mounted detachment and a
non commissioned staff section.
The preliminary band meeting was
held In tho city court room of the city
hall, fiavins? been called bv Cant. C. X.
Barber of the Vermont National Guard
Over a score of musicians were present
at the meetiuir and considerable enthu
siasm was aroused. Of the men present
15 signed the papers for enlistment
the band and two others, who were tin
der g, took the papers home to secure
the Mgnatures of their parents. In adui
tion to those already signed, there are
six or more musicians in Montpelier who
have siinilied their desire to join the
band. The full complement is 23 men
so it can be seen that a good start has
been made for the full company.
At tho outset, of the meeting Capt
Barber was called upon to outline the
duties which would devolve upon the
band and to tell of the benefits which
would come from membership in the or
fnmization. A. E. Bruce presided over
the meeting and before adjournment was
taken a committee consisting or .wr
Bruce. William Gilbertson, Ernest Fletch
er and Amedeo Calcagni, was named to
have charge of the completion of the
work of organization. Another meeting
has been called for next Wednesday even
ing at the same place, and an effort will
be made to secure Col. Reeves, comman
der nf the Vermont Xational Guard, and
Adit. Gen. Lee S. Tillotson to appear be
fore the meeting, although the possibility
is somewhat uncertain because both are
very busv at this time.
The total strength of the headquarters
enninanv is 58 men. of which 2S are in
the band, as already stated. The mount
ed detachment has Hi men, and already
the names of seven men have been se
cured for this nart of the service. The
non-commissioned staff is made up ot n
men. who must iirst ennsx as pnvu-
There are several prospective enlistments
for this section of the company.
Taken nil in all. the outlook is con
sidered quite encouraging for the estab
lishment of the headquarters company in
Barre. Any who are desirous of diseuss-
ng the chance of enlistment should com
municate with Capt. C. N. Barber.
DIED AT PLAINFIELD.
Denutv Sheriff Edward D. Bartlett Was
Well Known in County.
Deputy Sheriff Edward D. Bartlett died
Rt his home in Plainfield this morning at
o'clock. Mr. Bartlett had been in tail
.. . , , .
ing health tor several weens, aiinoujju
many of his friends about the county
were not aware mat ms condition was
critical. He is survived by his wife
three children. Janice Bartlett, Joseph
Bartlett and Edward Bartlett, jr.; hi
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Bartlett
Plainfield, and two brothers, t lenient
Bartlett and Roseoe Bartlett, who also
reside in Plainfield.
Mr. Bartlett was born in Plainfield
May 3, 18BS, the oldest son of Mr. nnd
Mrs. Joseph Bartlett. and had always
resided in his native town. His wife was
Miss Emma Sanborn of Plainfield. For
over 25 years, up to a year ago, he had
been engaged in the mercantile business
in Plainlield, beginning as a clerk in the
store o Fred Perrin. Later he became
the owner of the store where C. P. Kel
logg is now located, and several years
ago entered into partnership with George
Nye and they carried on a general store
until a year ago, when Mr. Bartlett sold
out his share in the business.
At the time of his death he was the
town constable and tax collector and for
several years he held a commission as
denutv sheriff. The duties incident to
that' office as well as those connected
with a commission as deputy game war
den which he held called him into various
towns in Washington county and gained
for him a wide circle of acquaintances.
He was a member of the Montpelier
lodge of Elks and had been affiliated
with the Congregational church. His fra
ternal associations also included the Jun
ior Order of American Mechanics and Ivy
grange.
The funeral will be held at the house
Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock and in
terment will be made in the family lot
in the village cemetery.
VETERAN DIED SUNDAY.
George B. Prouty, 75, Died in West Brat
tleboro Thursday.
Brattleboro, Dec. 15. George B.
Prouty, 73, a lifelong resident of West
Brattleboro and a veteran of the Civil
war. died suddenly yesterday at his
lioome on Bonnyvale road. He had lieen
in failing health some time, but death
was unexpected.
Mr. Prouty was born in West Brattle
boro, Dec. 20, 1S41, adecemlant of a lamily
that had long been prominent in the vil
lage. He served three years in the Civil
war as a member of Co. C, 2d Vermont
regiment. He had been unable to engage
actively in business for a number id
year.
He leaves his wife, who was Miss
Ixiuisa M. Alexander, three sons, Klisha,
Elijah and George Prouty. and four
daughters, Mrs. Leon Walker. .Mrs. El
len Cain. May and Dorothy 1'routy. an
of Brattleboro. He leaves 1 grann
children and one sister, Mrs. Henry
ler of Brattleboro.
Mil-
DIED AT AGE OF 80.
Mrs. Giovanini Faraschini Was
a Native
of Italy.
Mrs. (iiovanini Karachini. one of the
oldest women in the Italian colony of
Rarre. passed away at the home of her
daughter. 15 Third street, lust night at
11:40 o'clock. A week ago Mrs. Faras
chini sustained a paralytic slux k and
failed rapidly. She was 8t year old
nnd wss a native of Bellone. Italy. Her
husband's death occurred 42 years ago
and his remain are buried in Bellone.
Mrs. Faraschini is survived by two J
daughters. Mrs. Tranquelli JVrnjvie and;
Mrs. F. Dindo. with whom she bad made!
her home simv comini to Barre from '
Italy eight years sco. Until her recent ;
i!lnes Mrs. Faraschini was a woman of ,
rugged health, in spite of her advancing I
' The funeral will be bel l at thr house
Saturday afternoon at - ,Vlok and in
tcrment wi!t be in Hop cemetery.
VERMONT FIRE
UNDERWRITERS
Held Annual Bur ,ss Meet
ing and Bj- vuet in .
Hotel irre
G. R. R(VN.. NEWPORT,
ELECTED PRESIDENT
L. S. Hayes of Bellows F'alla
Was One of Chief
Speakers ,
For their annual business meeting and
banquet nearly 50 members of the Ver
mont Association of Local Fire Insurance
Underwriters came to this city yesterday
and were hospitably received at Hotel
Barre, where the business session of the
afternoon was followed by a substantial
dinner in the evening. Many - of the
members were accompanied by their
wives, most of the visitors remaining in
the city until to-day.
The principal speaker at the afternoon
meeting, which was held in the reception
room at the hotel, was L. S. Hayes of
Bellows Falls, commissioner on state in
surance, who gave the underwriters an
interesting resume of the duties attend
ant upon the office. Mr. Hayes has' the
supervision of the underwriting on all
state projierty and is brought frequently
in touch with local agents. His address
contained many timely suggestions on
the relations between the insurer and
the insured and the speaker was warmly
received by his auditors. A. G. Murphy
of Boston, a special agent of the Com
mercial Union of Boston, spoke briefly
on present day insurance methods with
particular reference to the Vermont field.
Officers elected for the ensuing year
included the following: President, George
F. Root of Xewport; first vice-president,
George M. Clay of Brattleboro; second
vice-president, C. C. Graves of Water
bury; secretary, L. D. Taylor of Brattle
boro; treasurer, E. S. Leonard of Bellows
Falls.
All of the guests subscribed liberally
to the declaration that the evening din
ner was one of the finest features of any
insurance gathering in recent years and
Barre's new hostelry as well as the serv
ice, to be found there came in for some
commendable remarks.
After the banquet the underwriters
lingered over their cigars while Mr. Mur
phy and C. C. Graves of Waterbury
talked shop in an entertaining fashion.
Much was made of the results that can
lie achieved by underwriters through co
operative efforts and the agents seemed
disposed to second with one accord the
suggestion that the association strive for
more effective co-operative methods.
State Treasurer Walter F. Scott was
present as a guest of the association and
he spoke briefly of state insurance laws.
Among the people who were registered
at the hotel for the meeting were the
following: F. W. Cutting of Brandon,
L. S. Havs of Bellows Falls, Maj. L. D.
Taylor of Brattleboro, H. II. Hiekok of
Burlington, F. H. Burnham of Rutland,
Frank W, Williams of Brandon. R. S.
Pike of Rutland, Mr. and Mrs. Fred H.
Kelly of Rich ford, F. M. Bell of Burling
ton. George F. Root of Xewport, Alfred
K. Watson of Hartford, A. B. Noyes ot
St. Johnsbury, Gilbert ,F. Dodge oi
Windsor. D. 0. King of Blirlington, C. C.
Graves of Waterbury, E. L. Ionard and
E. L. Walker of Bellows Falls and George
M. Clay of Brattleboro.
SAVINGS CHECKS MAILED.
Two Barre Banking Institutions Spread
Yuletide Cheer.
From one bank in Barre to-day pa
trons in this city and vicinity received a
goodly portion ot Yuletide cheer ann
from another local institution Christmas
checks were placed in the mail last night.
The Christmas savings club, organized
bv the Barre Savings Bank Jrust co.
four years ago. is regarded by attaches
at that bank as a fixture and now that
$54,714.00 has been distributed to cus
tomers to do what they will with it,
preparations are being made for the or
ganization of the tiltn annual saving"
club. The bij package of checks which
members of the club received to-day rep
resents more than depositors ;wui
t U interestinc to note that more than
$40,000. or to be exact, $40,400.75, is the
sum total of the matured accounts, tiro
hecks thnt are paid in full.
Little folks and adults alike have kept
in (heir deposits this year, and while a
greiit many of the checks will be used for
Christinas shopping, there is a substan
tial proportion of the big fund that pa
rous are going to turn into m ac
counts.
Bankers recognize the Christmas -av-
ngs cluo ns one ot tne inn-i. uii.ui,..
agents in inducing people to estainisu
permanent savings accounts nnd in Barre
members of the club are not an exception
to the rule that obtains wherevcsa4irist-
n.,.a Uavp Iw-en startert. Always
there are many
subscribers who prefer
o convert their
cluo saviiiRs v
nent accounts.
At the Quarry Savings oank it was
stated that the ( hnsfmas cnecks wc.c
mailed to patrons last evening. Accounts
at the Quarrv bank were well main-
ained and the officials telt satisncu wuu
he year's efforts. Attaches said that
big sum of money wouiu unu us
into the hinds of the club members, but
thev did not care to quote any figures.
DIED ON VISIT TO NEW YORK.
Alonio
L. Wheeler of Tc-wnstiena was in
Business in Brattleboro.
l?i;itlleboro. IVc. I-V Alonrn L. Wheel
er of Townshend. former postmaster in
that town, a storckec-r and a director
of the DrWitt l.rocery Co. of Brattle .
ooro, died in Xew York yesterday o
t.i.eumonia. He wMit there with his wile
to -pend Thanksgiving with their daujsh-
j'.er. Mrs. Asn- Davis.
IVsido hi wife and daughter. Mr.
- .... .1,
'
urvivea iiy two mil, .loin
IjatConwctH ut and leonard, w ho Is a
undent at yvi,:.-r!c R. 1.
