NEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE, NEW MEXICO FRIDAY, DECEMBER IS 1916
NUMBER 116
BEANS BEANS BEANS
AND THE RESULT IN
BANK DEPOSITS
the guilty parties, though no hides
have been discovered.
The men have not been arraingn
ed, but are being held in the county
jail. It is likely they all three will
be bound over to await the action
of the grand jury. Pinos, in com
pany with one Mateo Padilla, was
sent to the penitentiary on August
27, 1915, to serve terms of from one
year to two years each. Pmoj was
liberated a short while ago. They
GAS ROCK HAS
BEEN DISCOVERED
NEAR ALAM0G0RD0
PROSPEROUS TORRANCE AT- pleaded guilty to a charge of steal- COMPANY ORGANIZED
TRACTING MUCH ATTEN
TION BECAUSE OF VALU
ABLE PRODUCT OF PAST
TWO OR THREE TEARS
ing cattle from County Commission-
t?: .1 . n. n I : ! ! . ! 1 1 . i. .
tr riuci wruz. .rauiua is sun in inc
penitentiary.
GIVING AWAY AN ORANGE
IN FULL LEGAL FORM
DEVELOP NATURAL
ital punishment probably attracted II f 011001111 II 10
the most attention. The closeness J, Jt UUnwUlll fJAtf
has kept everything else in the back
ground until the last few days, but
it is repotted now that the count
has proceeded far enough to an
nounce with certainty that the a
mendment has been adopted by a
majority of at least 300 and the
I legal executions in Arizona are a
I thing of the past.
TO Under the provisions of the amend
Iment "no person convicted of the
OIL crime of murder shall be recommend-
NO SORE SPOTS
OVER RESULTS
n WTTTfW llllnBPflPAa cu.iur pruun, cummuiauun or par
OT WHICH PROSPECTORS 0e by the pardons and paroles, ex-
SAYS THERE IS A WHOLE ce5i,.pon MTly d ,cove.re,d evidence
establishing to the satisfaction of
LAKE a" the members of said board his
jor her innocence of the crime for
which conviction was secured."
John liiocw says tie aid pretty wen Alamogordo is now at the climax
in bean raising this season. His old: If a man were to give another an (maybe so) of an oil excitement, the
ground that is ground that had orange he would simply say: "I will ,rst interest in the matter corn
been continuously farmed for sever- give you this orange. But when the rnencing only last week. The field
at years, yielded 1,100 pounds to the transaction is intrusted to the hands 'bat is attracting attention at the
acre. The ground that had been oi" a lawyer to be put in writing he present time is Twin Mountains, 20
growing to weeds several years yield- adopts the following: "I hereby give n,''l's southwest of here,
ed only 500 to 700 pounds. In othes and consign to you, all and singular, The wrd was whispered around
words, Mr. Block got off of his clean mv estate and interest, right tit let fr a 'ew ('ays 'hat there was some
ground above $75 per acre, and from claim and advantages of and in said thing likely to be doing in the oil
the foul ground $35 to $50. jorang, together with all of its rind business and a company of about ten
The Milbourns were delivering their skip, juice, pulp and pips, and all has hcen formed. Other groups
beans the first of the week, having right and advantages therein with all and individuals have become inter-i
sdld at $7.30. Thev were baili ng power to bite, cut, suck or other- ested and the net result to the pres. FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND
with the tractor, bringing 8,000 lbs. w se cat tlie same, or give the same e,u lln,e ai e win iwonn
per trip. They were in a d y streak away, as fully as I, the said A. B., tarns an "c ground for several
this year got a very light ratnfall am now entitled to bite, such. "V" "c" wav nas occn 'ocaicu a
BIG TOMATO PACK
r . IN LUNA COUNTY
DURING PAST FALL
tic manipulation and by inefficient
public carrier service. Vegetables
covering hundreds of acres were left
in the fields of New Jersey this
year because the farmers and gard
eners could not ship their "truck"
with profit. It is the plan of those
who control the receipt of products.
and who regulate the prices, at cer
tain established distributing points,
to prevent supplies from reaching
the markets in quantities that would
lower the cost to consumers.
This is the condition of things in
the United States today, and in this
condition certain elements are striv
ing to find ground for the declara-
IVE LEGISLATION FORi1'0"' bv Congress, of an embargo on
iuuq cxpuris. s iicimuus issue nas
been raised, that is, partly in be
half of a class of commercial mani
pulators that desires to escape popu
lar condemnation, partly in behalf of
an element that would deprive the
SAME SMILE AND WARM
HANDCLASP IN EVIDENCE
TALKS OF CONSTRUCT.
SPECIAL ELECTION
RESULTS III FAVOR
OF REPUBLICAN
STATE AT COMINO SES
SION OF LEGISLATURE
Hon. H. O. Btirsum, Republican
candidate for governor of New Mex-
THE TEE VOTE OF THE GEN
ERAL ELECTION FOR PRO
BATE JUDGE IN OTERO
COUNTY DECIDED LAST
WEEK
The special election which was
UJ . 1. 1 . L . ... . r -
Allied nations of Europe of food sun- . .' . """BTi'" . ".u:.7
stuns vniivu Jimv.;) I1U
ico m the recent elect'on, and dc- partly by an element that seeks to
feated by Ezekiel De Barn by 1.000 perplex the national Administration
votes, was in the city Wednesday by complicating domestic and iuter
and Thursday of this week in 'national questions. It is only natural
company with Judge M. C. Mecheni, that the monopolists should desire
district jud;re of Socorro, and Mr. I and strive to shift upon the war
Dodsnn, a mining man of Hanover, the blame for the state of things
CANS MTMBRES
dnrt rt ttiir rrnn wn i tint-a crrtoH cut or Otherwise eat the samp nrnncrA oil territory.
one for this year. Their 85 acres or give the same away with or with-! Thls 18 not the f;rst 0.'l wtrest that
.made a yield of 750 pounds to the; out the rind, skin, juice, pulp or pips jbas been aroused in this section and
acre 61,750 pounds in all. "But even anything hereinbefore or hereinafter jt several tunes extensive territory
at this, their bean crop brought or in any other deed or deeds, ins- has been staked as ol ground,
them $54.75 an acre, which isn't so trument or iii-lnstruments of what1 ne present interest in oil seems
bad. . jever nature or kind forever to the to be based upon the opinion and re-
C P Ua kro,,crh in of contrary in anywise notwithstand- , P" .P' .r- waro, m, who nas na
white beans yesterday fifteen sacks Exchange.
that bought him $135.00. He got
9c a pound for them. His bean crop pill lin fll
was poor this year. The cut worms, llBI I llr Mr N
tUm k.u. j thm i,a,w.-a wnkhwi nihil
beetles, each took a whack at it, and i
he had but 13,000 pounds. The high I
prices will compensate somewhat,
though, as he will get just about
$1,000 for his beans. He had a fine i
corn crop.
F. A. Davis, who lives northwest;
of Willard, recently delivered a car'
of beans of his own raising 41,000
BUY ALL STOCK
IN LOCAL BANK
Mr. Btirsum and indue Mechem werp which thev have themselves created:
traveling in an auto and had been it is only natural that sympathizers
to Hanover for the purpose of in-1 with the Central Powers should de
specttng some nvnini? nronertv in ' sire anil strive to ston the flow of
VALLEY th't rapidly growing camp. I foodstuffs to Great Britain, France,
TrilvTATAM trAvriT tt x-r , mat Mr. Hnrsiim takes his de- Italy, and neutral nat ons ; it is not
lUIUAJ.Uja UANULKIJ BY feat with more than the usual philo-1 whol'y surprising that the political
CANNERY WHICH IS 67 .P'1 ' those who stake their po-1 enemies of President Wilson should
iuiuiiics on wic nazarns or 'ir-'uesirc anu sinve 10 turn nun irum
tie white slips of paper is shown by' a course in domestic and intcrna
I bis cherry smile and warm handclmn. I tional policy certain to win him the
When asked whit he regarded the 'applause of millions of humane peo
! leading factors in the nartial Jv(i!ni at home and abroad: hnf th ea'l
of the Republican ticket in the state. ifor an embargo is, nevertheless, based
h f n , . . . . . ' ... , ..
PER CENT INCREASE
the county resulted in the election of
Martin Brown by a rather dec'sive
majority over James K. Anderson
the democratic candidate nnd G. W.
Berkley, the socialist candidate. It
will be remembered that the gen
era' election resulted in a tii- vote
of Wi each between Brown, the re
miblican candidate and And 'rson.
Reports from all over the county
indicate that a very light vote was
polled and apparently the voters had
become tired of elect'ons and would
not attend the special elect!,,n.
Alamogordo News.
SANTA FE CO. REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATES FILE CONTEST
The cannery of the M'mhres Val
considerable experience as a geolo- VT r""5..r" .f.","'."8 "oc,a-1 Mr. R-rsum said he thought that upon fiction and falsity.
gist and mining man. The Stan- " ' . , n '? J"' Mr. Wilson's popularity resulting! Representative John J. Fitzgerald,
leys had a claim staked over in the , . , . jpnom No 7 ant 1 i I om ,ne democrat slogan "He Kentf New York, Tammany's most pro
W.
for
h
Qh
I nounced it of little value, hut said h . . " i Altnouch defeated for n.ran. nlii that in this he i nrnmnte
Charles C. Closson. candidate for
in the re-election as sheriff, vs. Celso Lonez
Federico I.onez, candidate for
. . . . . . tl 1 V3. .LU.1I3
ie coming session supply oi ioousiuiis hi reasonauie
win Mountains and recently while . - ,,:'..:"" ., -' imr of war" had more to do with , minent Representative in the Housel"1 wpunnca
C. Haynes was doing some work "i "L" ! ,ne. ' thsn anything Wilson's strength ; at Washinirton. eives notice that he'r,nt e ection
them he gathered a piece of the ""B i"P'" Xln8 lne carried throuph the rest of th tirt.twill nresent. and sunnort. in the com-. District Cour
ematite rock and brought it in to -r i 1 J":" . ?'VC. . I that and the race issu comhin.ing session, a measure providing for i cratic and fu
ow Mr. Ward.. The latter pro-' ' "r. "? an emborKo on foodstuffs, and de- certificate, of
d suel:
Wednesday afternoon the.follow-
n candidates in the re-
filed contests in the
t against their Demo-
sion opponents to whom
election have been is-
e ...... i... 1 (w . . i i
would go out and look at the coun- T M7mnye, Va lev toniatoeT has ?m"V,m h.a" 1ot ,ost interest in by a desire, first, to punish England'
try at some convenient lime. weeK ,.,,j: . . ut,cll""i icifisiarion tor the state i 'or I) aiKIisting merchants
ago Sunday he went out and at once .,, ' . s .'; and spoke of many constructive United States who are her enemies
recognized that the country had all ' .T',, , iV.'JT ""l .'c."on ar.e measures that should receive serious i and. second, to insure a suff cient
the evidences ot liene oil land. ,, . ' ' " TV' J. XL consideration at tl
pounds-at that stat on for shipment. GREGORY PAGE IS ELECTED i
ne nas more Deans to sen. mil many
beans are shipped f om Wi'lard. and
in our report three weeks ago of the
PRESIDENT OF
number of cars shipped out of the
county, no shipments from Willard
were included. Mr. Davis thinks six
or eight cars have been shipped from
there. When the beans are practi
cally cleaned up. we will try to get
shinments Oi.r renort thre. weeks , Iecial to State Record
PATTTTP ouriledly rapping a lake of oil, the
STATU! TtANTr . AT.PnnnWTJ . 'piece of rock and shale. The mas-
sivc and stratified cretaceous li
bill nentiy expected py c. v.. ushorn and f th. -,n ,. -':'''.' ,n. ,i, nt .1,. M. A. Ortiz, candidate for re-
Bursnm w.i Pr.;.n ;pUrtion for county cierK. vs. 1 nni
ai r, vvaru savs i ne rn rp rm n -
s impregnated with gas and is nn- . T " ",c M
. " ' , " ned at t"e hanrlsomn mirirU., i,. Tl.
next year will snow double the ,..:.j :. " .i.. . . " "c
,,, lMC iijikt rn upmn- nresrnr
amount of the 1916 volume.
is an embargo existing at!"an ne uaca-
It is an embargo instituted tctor Ortega, candidate for pro-
QUE PEOPLE SELL THEIR
HOLDINGS
vc and stratmcd cretaceous lime
stone is underlying a pcrmian lime
stone, which seems to lie cemented
firmly to the fireclay and gypsum.
This particular larpe hil! which is
thrown up at the highest po:nt to
over 250 feet, runs east and west and
mum elevation to the
e apex of the svn-
lt!r M ...... . f "N . . ... . T T . T- , ,
At the bei'inninir of the i.l-intinir j i- "'""r "rant and exprss- Dy toodstult mainpulators and mon-!i"e jnngv, vs. jose inez ivoynai.
season US acres had been rontrart- VJ..-L ,'V'rT.,annn or. "me oponsts, aided and anctted, ignorant.
, r i . i . c """"iK to inanK
vi iui L'uirtiwca, nui some oi ine anf
tarmers were
Benito I.uian. candiilate for rnimlv
many friends lv or deliberately, by the railroads, commissioner of the Third district.
ago of 118 cars shipped out to that! A'l the stock in the Gallup State 'V
!. ...u' .... u.a u.. Rnnt i. wn u ,ci,tt. t tus. south I found th
shipped from Willard. It is now cer- county and all officers and directors C'T s'ing in its trend, northeast
tain that our estimate on that date of .the bank are citizens of Gallup,
of fifty cars yet to ship, was short. This situation was brought about by
t Hioi'nnH Wan. the purchase by the Gallup Stock-
sas, who owns land in the Estancia hol('ers of the shares owned by Al
Vallev, in a letter to the Ncws-Her-. buquerque. citzens.
aid, among othes things has the fol- ,A meeting was held on the fifth
lowing to say: iof t,,c month, after the purchase
"I do not know of a section of r,f t,le Albuquerque stock by local
the country now. where land is-pro- stare no ders and a new set of .,,,: ... ..-,i : atocs
.. .. - . .. .rf 1 . i i j . itiLiuiv ,iviiauic i.irti inc iiviii win in A. .
- . - . . . sum Of Kl H I
h,iip nrnro m no n nrri nrnnitAf
tlieft- contract
received the
and 70 acres, but from this acreage
420 tons of tomatoes were brought
to the cannery.
One of the Hondale farmers plant
ed one and one-quarter acres in
tomatoes, but the quarter acre fail
ed to yie'd and from the one acre
he took ten and one-half tons. The
average con, however, yielded about
IILII flllil , A , , . " .
from among the l an ""e-nan ons to the acre
j ne ii ii in i x r in nan (is employed
Iitr;iifjr tlie season averaercd 75 and
IMC Vlnlll C CVIIIIIILC II 13
; unable t carry m,t , UlTr assi'ace. j What the country most needs is the v5. Jose Albino Montoya.
:s and the factory only C'ty EnterPr,se- removal of this obstruction to free Ceore M Kinse canHi(h
product of between 60 ianj fn'r tr!U,e between the prodcer)r(..clcction as colmty commi,s
THE HIGH PRICES
aim tne consumer, not tue ereetion , ,f rr.Vct
Iof another one sti'l more unwar-(C,:
district, vs.
e for
ioner
Arthur
and southwest. Every rock is more
or less filled with gas and it is a
more promising fie'd than any I
have worked in for other companies.
We have all of the field claimed and
a company formed
most prominent bus'ness men of
Alamogordo. I unhsitat ngly1 state
that from
ARE THE RESULT OF
MANIPULATIONS
-ducinor the returns that some nt it officers were elected and new direct
is there, that can be bought at the ors named. TJ'e officers are Gre
prices prevailing there. I am aware ?rv Page, president; W. H. Morris,
that the past season has been very vice-president, I.. R. Goehrng vice
favorable for crops generally and president and John J. Emmons cash-
that prices are the best, ever, but 'cr- 1 "c directors are Gregory rage,
u. ooenring, n
three ,
and also one of the best for quanti
ty and quality. Alamogordo News
will sav I believe a crood Aer cent of W. H. Morris, L.
. " . .... r . ... XT I T T TM .
yous land there would, it scientitical- "cumann anu j. j. emmons. ine
neiier revenue ivtiw,, ui am.,, ,,,cn tu untt mc
NEW SANTA RITA
COMPANY BEGIMS
SHIPPING ORE
lv farmed, hnnir a
per acre than can possibly be ob- affairs of the institution assures it;
tamed from land here which is rated "ems,' an exceptionally strong nanic
at $40 to $60 per acre. I am figur- and one in which the people of the
ing and scheming to the best of my community can have absolute con
ability to get loose here so I can fidence.
locate out there, and am fully ex- The record of the bank during its
pecting to make it within another ttrst yar of business is remarkable,'
year, although may have to make i if deposits having increased from1
some sacrifice that I do not 'ike $85,000 to $300000. .This is said to he RICH COPPER BEARING PRO-
to. Wheat was a fair crop here tne record tor tne state, in the near
this yeas, but corn almost a failure, j future it is expected that the force!
I am planning and hoping to be a in the bank will be increased. !
valley farmer soon." j The Albuquerque men who sold '
The pi'e of money in the coun- ' their stock to the Gal'up people are
ty continues to grow. Last week connected with the State National
we stated the probability that the Rani; of that city and were Messers.
deposits in the two banks of the Herdon, Marron, Korher, Pollock and I
crnntv amounted to $400,000. The of- McDonald. The Albuquerque bank i
ficial rport of the Torrance County wi'l continue to be the correspond-!
savings lanl- at Willard shows the ent of ot the Gallup bank,
depos'ts in that bank on November!
during the
months it was in operation.
Owing to the increase in the acre
age planted the cannery was obliged
! to double its capacity this veir and
will enlarpe again "this winter to
(handle next years crop wh'ch will
I be double this years product.
The importance of a business like
the Hondale
l estimated, as it brings ready money "ngressional investigating commit- a hustler and a gentleman of
to the tarmers of the district and re- nur many months ago, a promi- highest class, and he will win
suits in spreading the fame of the "1nl otticial of one of the Standard At th
and vvaqswortn ot Lantornia a
try, of course, w:ll not give counte-! ..T,le candidates for legislative po
nance to the embargo conspiracy. ;sitinns will Me their contests direct-
'lv with the Legislature which is ther
ANTI SALOON LEAGUE Mudge of the election of its own mem-
ORGANIZED AT SANTA FE , .
j Jose Ortiz y Pino, candidate for
The Santa Fe county Anti-Saloon '.?""! y commissioner from the second
League was organized in this citv 'Strict, Cannto Aland, candidate for
last Friday night by R. E. Farley of assessor, and J. P. Adams, candidate
nair. Head of the conso idat- '"' ""i
perance movement in the state '"c grounds of.
contest, as set
ages and payments for the torn- arw tjot tittt? Tn m-a bit.. Monnta
s the rannerv turned loose the DUE TO THE SHORT- ed temp
AGE OF PRODUCTION1 ,y c,crti"g Chief Justice Clarence J. '"tit m the complaints, are as fol-
Roberts president, Justice Richard lows:
WHICH WAS LARGE BUT H,an"a vice-president, Jose SenaJ At ,le s;11j e:cclion so 'heM on
TO BIG PROFITS ANn Vrrrrr Z ' ' '"" tne 7th day of November. 1916, in th
'rniint,. -,( Cn IT- ' f I t . . .
Mr. Farley is making every coun- rihts of rt.is contestant rnnHi.
ty in the state, and hopes before the date for said office of sheriff,
upon
FREIGHT I
ii-gisiamre convenes to nave a work- th i......i.i,.. i
U'c .ln t U. plntl., 1..,a nf . .... -
J.J At th nnpnincr t, r- . . ' ,u iu.iucu,
M,'n,1,rc Vo1l. r,rn,l..t. ,11 Oil comnnnip. .1.. i.u r jc..,.,i, t ri:f: . Ti-i - "IIOISi which
.......... v. , u . i , irivullLI, nil V 1. 1 . --I ...OUG I C IIIIIII a II n .louawui 111 1,1 .u II I u II 1,1 A. Ill IHIIIII- '
,the Country.
PERTY IN GRANT COUNTY
IS MAKING GOOD AS PRO
DUCER IS UNDER GOOD EX
PERT MANAGES
WILL PROVIDE
TRACTS OF LAND
were exact conies of
-e . " ine nunuil can nailots. wpro nruit.
sini-ti "on worKer oi national reoutaf.on. j . .. ----- ,
had nothing to do with made a short address, tellng the au-l?" ; 7 M nority of the coun
t; r.t th. .:i,. V-.i:t,..: u.j e'efk ot s.id county, not at the
made for prohibition, and showing .t'xPc"sc nf county of SanU Fe,
lie advantages of nroh b t on from , ".'"'. " c P"'n i me
one, close at hand Th. f,it, a financial as well as a moral stand. I cliairn,a". ot ' ne Republican coun-
price of potatoes has been a fri,,t. point. ! lY committee of the said county, and
I frank declaration that i h.'.
I pruuuciion
prices.
If
j cat
Does production affect food prices? m
;t us take an instance and a typi- th
I till lopic for the last month or six Dr- Wadsworth stated that the ' ,eSe "ol,,!,,l printed contained
weens. I'otatoes have hrPn lil-n. hus:ness men of Denver. Co .. who a t'"- "' 'ne nepun.ican party,
figurative language of the fcw years ago believed that prchibi-1 to"w"; ,he Amcrican fag, at its top.
mi i mil iiibu . . 7 '""KiiaKc in tne ---- ............ ..., i,,,,.,,-. , .
Wllnini I.I I I Plain people of the I'niteH Stnto. t Hon. would ruin the citv. were noW:J"u t ureunder tne description on
Mr. H. W. Loomis, the practical1
17th in round figures $189,000 This i
is undoubtedly materially increased iw-rr dcctiiu- cictc Anmi-r
by this time. The books of the Es-! 'NTERESTING FACTS ABOUT
c..: - t-f. . i i
.a aLz::: t' " a y,f:.Z.. L'SlTl the white house
u..v..l.l.l 1 . . IVIUIIU UfJUItS Ul p.lCt
000, with drafts in course of collec
tion fos seven cars of beans amount
to $19,000. The real deposits at this
date must amount to at least $425,-000.
CATTLE THIEVES ARE CAUGHT
AND LANDED IN LAS VEGAS JAIL
Special to State Record. ,
Us Vegas, N. M., Dec. II. Carlos
Pino, Rufino Rael and Adolfo Gon
zales have been lodged in the coun
ty jail her by Deputy Sheriff Ra
mon Ulibarri. They are charged
with stealing cattle from Benjamin
'Schutt, who owns herd of cattta
at Ojitos Frios.
Ulabarri was informed that there
had been some killing going on and
that the Schutts had missed two
head from their herd. The deputy
guest of Mr. and Mrs. P. D. South
j worth of Spalding. Mr. Loomis was
returning to fianta Rita from El
Paso where he purchased a quantity
' ot mining machinery. He always
feels at home in these parts where
he is remembered by many of our
older citftens as the former county
superintendent of schools of Grant
county before Luna county was or
ganized. The Santa Rita Development Co.,
inauguration than he had ever seen , :7" '" ?' u "V"?" ..w,ln lnc
it ,, i j j . i ... M-nino pruprriies, ana rne .laim con-
"tK w be'oV thei-'t !
n h.nvA nr..,Mnt tl, ,la,ns o'sseminaica copper in immense
accession of an unpopular one I can
not say,
lumps of
l,o 1:1 I . . .' . v
I "tM "rciich to jirccious stones.
, Apples also are commanding high
man of the Santa Rita Development RATON BUSINESS MEN WILL uV , , I, Z!ston market, on
iCo., was in Deming last week, thei wen hili, Wednesday, Nov. 22, these quotations
rKVVlUK SMALL FARMS
FOR PEOPLE WHO WISH 2-bti bag; in bulk at Charleston lnO
3.25 bbl
coa:, and lumns of rnnl ll,e strongest advocates of the cause. : ncpuoncan ncKet,
George Washington, the first pre
sident, was sworn in in Wall Street,
on the steps ol the sub-treasury
building.
John Adams, the second president
saw more persons weeping at h V
Raton, Dec. 11 A number of local
business men
A prize of $500 was offered in
company to be known as the Raton
Land and Improvement Comoanv. its
object being to place on the market
a 500-acre tract of land bordering on
the south city limits, to be known as
U a CA..,l, Dn.l. JJ.,: .
quantities, and is located square y in , incorporated within the citv later
rne copper oraring properties oi tne rhe tract w; h. ,.v.. of( -. i
Santa Rita district. The first
and among other things said: an" on others, m Spanish, 'Boleto
Denver is getting a bigger tourist Kcpubiicano, with the names of all
trade than ever before and all busi- of t'.lc Republican candidates, presi
ness conditions have shown a re-. dentials electors, senatorial, congres
markabte improvement. The presi-' sional, state and county, and these
dent of the First National tickets so printed as aforesaid were
Hank, one of the strongest oppo-1 delivered without the supervision of
nents of the innovation, was so pleas-: 'he chairman of the Republican court
ed with the result that he went tolty committee into the oossession of
bbl; Baldw:ns. fancv $j to MM Mn i Missouri at his own expense and ad- active workers for the Democratic
1 $2.50 to 3; No. 2, $17S to 225-! " ,are meetings in behalf of ticket prior to the opening of the
Greenings, $2.50 to $3.50; Harveys' : Prb'bition. The business argument polls on said election day, to be
2.25 to 3; Hubbardstons. $2 to 275-i" t,le one 'bat has convinced these pasted wi;h the names of all the
- rn . . n. ' mi-tl li T r ,1 -Vi n .1 l K:..A. MAH .1 I . . . . .. .! ' I . . r . r
nor.e of them want to go back to ajfices in the said county of Santa Fe,
'wt condition." over the iramcs of all the corres-
He also made mention of the mar-'ponding Republican candidates for
velous change in the poverty and. county offices in the said county,,
crime situation in Colorado, and il- and the said persons to whom such
livered for such
rn ppnnnnv a bh as t0.,6S. a bu; sweets, $2.50 to
" -www a rnnx vii Apples-Macintosh Reds, $.1 to $S
THELB OWN PKOVISIONS
l0 liL-iF Pund Sweets $2.50 to
j.ju; ousnei doxcs, juc to I.Z5: west
ern box apples, $1.50 to 225.
In The Christian Science Monitor
oi tne same date appeared a dis
paten irom wew Urlean
ing C. W. Kemnton
. i . .
mat state, as savinir that nnntiui
and apples are spoiling in the fields
)rleans. La. ouot-1 Lustra,,ed the "f""?6111 by the num-, ballots were so del'
n. of Bogaiusi, in .cr, i n. who in the wet days I purpose, prior to the
ing that potato." LPJley?Lh! P.' itefhAr,ly Ph on said elcctio
rlr . . . ' V : ;uu .
-i t j wj- u.oi uiuiiu nu streets ana an incinf hi. r .l .
Washington', administration for the ZJ'ZaSI.'' WW ?"e-cre section, ' price" l, 5
best design for a house to serve i "7,f JLriXi Ji if
as a home for the president in.Wa,h-on "C.!,L ?!!L!f: 0 a month until paid for I rtcLX ZSl Siffi
mgton. James Hpban, an Irishman ";ihilitf. ,aPd ,s 9 productive for agri-
from South Carolina, was the sue-, ,. ru:"l -il-ll ,Annn cul,ural PurPse as ny to be found
cessful competitor. His sketch con
tained so many fancv and freak deco'
rations that the public was horrified
and frills and gingerbread decora
tions were eliminated. Ine result
was the twe-story White House as
immediately got on the job, and found we know it now. Washington laid
suspicious looking men. He talked the corner stone of the build-ng in
with them, and finally searched their 1792. It was completed' in 1799, the
homes, with the result that at the year of Washington's death,
home of Carlos Pino, in shed to I John Adams was the first presi
the rear of the house, was found the I dent to occupy the White House,
head of one cow and the meat of 'and it was said of AbagaH Adams,
two. At the home of Rufino Rael his wife, that she hung up the fam-
mwmm tnnA ...! Hr . I I 1 , . I .
uy wasn in ine case roum.
was found a quantity of meat and
two sacks ot potatoes, and at the
home of Adolfo Gonzales was found
a coil of chicken wire. None of the
article, in the possession of the
prisoners is thier property, say the
county officials. The meat is said
to be that of the two missing cows
from the Schutt herd, the owner of
the potatoes is unknown, while it is
beMeved that the ceil of chicken wire
belong, to County Clerk Lorenzo Del
gado. Mr. Schutt and his sons eame in,
assisting Deputy Ulibarri in bringing
the prisoners. Thev sav there is no
doubt but that the men accused arc.
Theoretically, the president of the
United States cannot be arrested or
restrained by any publ'c official,
but Ulysses S. Grant, while presi
dent, was held up and arrested by
a negro policeman for fast driv
ing. He put up a bond of $20 and
forfited it next day in police court
The president may go beyond the
borders of the country if he chooses,
but seldom, if ever, doe, so. A good
deal of talk was caused in Grover
Cleveland's administration by the re
port that he hid gone beyond the
three mile limit on the Atlantic
wki'e fishing. Exchange,
known that Chino is taking out 10,000
tons a day and the amount of ore
mined is limited only by the capa
city of their machinery. Mining was
in the country and will undoubtedly
appeal to the land hunsrrv nuhlic as
a splendid opportunity. The tract is
located soutn
oarned on in this region before the Brick plant, lying to the south of the
adoption of the const:tutn of the old cit dlimyp;n ound and 0"!
United States and the early Spanish ; tWeen the Transcontinental highway
and the banta Fe railway tracks. It
is the expectation of the organizers
of the company to locate upon the
land during the com-lng year several
hundred families who expect to en
gage in ranchng on a small scale at
the same time enioying alt the priv
ileges of living within an incorporat
ed city. Water will be piped to the
tract within the next few weeks in
time for service at the opening of
spring.
pioneers were alive to the extent and
ncneness of its mineral content
The Santa Rita Development Co.,
is well financed and is backed by
prominent southwestern mining men.
The story of the SaTita Rita Devel
opment Company should give many
ot our citizens some insight into
the great resources of this district
and should furnish prospctive in
vestors and settlers in Luna and
Grant counties some idea of the
great future in store for the south
western part of New Mexico.
LEGAL EXECUTIONS IN
ARIZONA IS ABOLISHED
Phoenix, Ariz. Next to the pro
hibition amendment voted on in the
last election, the one to abolish cap-
N.
M. BAR EXAMINERS
HELD SESSION MONDAY
The State Board of Bar Examiners
held a sess-'on at the Supreme Court
room at the Capitol Building Mon
day. The members ere M. E. Hickey,
of Albuquerque, president, W. J. Lu
cas, of Las Vegas, and L L. Grim
shaw, of Santa Fe. ,
recently made an extensive inquiry
mm tuna uons on ine farms in sev
eral of the other states. He reports
the situation in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
nu west Virginia as sucn that a
remedy is needed in the shape of a
law providing for the amount of
commission that may be charged on
the sale of products. He lm fa vnrl
a law for Government inspection of
products snipped by farmers to com
mission houses before shipments can
be destroyed as unfit. While apples
are bringing war prices at retail, he
finds that many were left to spoil
on farms in Oregon, Michigan, West
Virginia, and Pennsylvania, because
of low price, to be had (rom possi
ble buyers in lots. His contention
is that the present high price of
food products is the result of deal
ing by commission men, and that
tne tarmers themselves are receiv
ing poor prices for their outputs.
The statements made by this wit
ness, both as regard, the situation
in certain quarters of the country
and as regards the character of the
products affected, may be extended
without departing from the facts, to
the whole country, and to practically
all of its products. There is a plen
tiful supply of everything, but dis
tribution is restricted by monopolis-
e opening of the
u . : " , m J : tematicaiiy paste over the names of
the state wa, controlled by the sa-;,n such Republican candidates, in-.
Lw h!Te? " " C0'1 1,'-ht eluding the name of this contestant
woud be from seventy-five to alfor the said office of sheriff, stick-
S"i.mt."n,'PP,yM,0J 5hi.eIierKand!"' containing the name, of all of
vo?ed our of "C.h .t. J",Z ,he corresponding Democratic can
co Ide'stndroughe, ' w'ealh "ght didates fOT V ,"iC"' includiJn
men had been the law? nnmbe C?r V"' -,V "T"-
to ask for aid at any oSe time ?ha'e .f?LthA?",ce f she ' ? thj
He told of hi, visit to the Colora- Lhe was modified end
do penitentiary a few monthY ago""1' Democratic in aU its parts
where he interviewed warden Tvnin!?' " county offices of the coun-
and said- ilv ol santa te, and remained Re-
"On the first of January, Tynan
publican in appearance and form as
i, to close a sell house with lSOcellsji1? the emblem, title, presidential
and three prisoner, are now being e ectors, senatorial, congressional and
released to every one new convict ?tate offices, so that a voter desir
that arrive,." Dr. Wadsworth saidi,ng, to vo,e ,he Republican ticket
that Warden Tynan, becoming puz-cu'd reaaily be deceived into the
zled at the falling off in "repeaters belief that such ticket so-voted was
or second term men, made an inves-l'be regular Republican ticket
tigation and found that many were! .
turning up in the atate penitentiary .. .
of Wytm ng. a wit state. "It , clear- Freight Business Heavy
ly shown, that such habitual 'float-, The biggest rush of transportation
ing crimina's will not remain in a business over the Santa Fe New M ex
dry state." Wyoming, will be totally j 'Co district since the "pre-cut-off
surrounded with dry state, after Utah : day, is now in full swing and gives
goes dry this winter and such pre,- J promise of indefinite continuance. All
,ure. , been brought to bear that j branches of the train service are be
the Wyoming legislature is now vir- ing taxed to the utmost to avoid
tually pledged to submit the question; oneestion. A heavy movement of
to f ote of the people. stock, a brisk coal trade, and un-
Mr. Farley and Dr. Wadsworth left! precedented volujme of transconti
the next morning for Albuquerque j nental freight traffic are the largest
and the new organization is already factors in the unusual conditions pre
busy preparing to rid the state of vailing at the oresent time. Raton
the saloon. . Range.
