J;
'AN
ESTON
SADER
VOLUME IK)
WKSTON, OKKCiON. FRIDAY. JplXKMBKK 15. 1'JlC
NUMBER 27
FCIE PROGRAIil FOR
ICOISY X-r,lAS
The roimntinity Christina tri
excivU's will be In-Ill ttat unlay
tvcnlng-, DocviiiImt at Weston
14 mi fit liitliau
lllll i u i i r t
N preaenU will lie placed on the
tree and no name wll in railiti.
Kvery Hmon present, both child-
nn unit sniwriiiiw, will, however,
receive a sack of randy and nutn.
Twin trees have ltn arranged
fm mill they will "be mist
iHHlfly unit beautifully iii1m-IIIIm-
and illuminated. Thin feature will
h taken run' of ly Messrs. K. O.
tf' DeMos. 8. A. rrn and A. W.
) Lmtili'll, who are in general rlmrice
of the iitv as chairmen of the m-v-
ernl committee apimiiitcd by the
Weston Welfare cluli.
l ) I. II -.t A I... ..............
nuirmun .iini ii.il nil- iiriiuiaiii
committee ha announced the fob
lowing program ot exorcises:
"tirhnea fnmi Naples" Weston
Augmented Orchestra.
Song, "Antiocb" Choir and
Audience.
Christmas Scripture Reading
'Magifie Fuaon unci Choir.
" Invocation -Rev. F. I), riielj.
Address -Rev. W. II. Smith.
Song, "Silent Night,"-Choir.
Soprano nolo, "Th Way of the
fc Crow," Solman Ula u. tailing.
fi -II.... U'l... lit.. fltlmni
IYCBllllgt v
Rang."
Cornet Sla, "Holy City," Mas
tnr Harvey Lumk-ll, with orchestra
awmiwnimi'iit.
Selection Weston Quartet.
Anthem, "And Thertt Were Shep
herd," Md'hail-Choir.
Keadlng-"The Two Christmas
Stocking" lilanche Thorsen.
Selection, "William Tell," Rossini
Orchestra.
Santa Claua.
HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS WILL
HOLD CHRISTMAS FROUC
Exit-move jireiwraliotw haw U-'n
muiit ly, the Weaton Uin aclioul
HirlH, ttiHtel by other loeal orati
inwuioim, for a IhriMmtw tiolic
to Iw held next Tnumlay, IH-c-emlu
r 21, at T:U0 p. m., in the
wiiimiI auditorium. Thin is the first
event of tho kind to be given in
Vestn, and an excellent "stunt"
(rogram ia being prepared for the
t cwion. The -entire program will
be given by girla and all tne num.
bera will be in costume. The girls
were lortuante in securing the aa
ainUnce of Mra. R. U. Soling, who
wiil put on an act in costume which
la aatd to aurpaan many of the beat
thing aecn on tbo big vaudeville
circuiU. Tho Bachelor girla' club
will alao put on a blunt which
alone will be worth the price of
admittance. Deep mystery aur
round the high school girla' part of
the progam, but enough has Iran
a auired to warrant the assertion that
lue Christmas frolic will be one
of the beat entertainmcnta of the
season.. An admittance of 26c and
16c will be charged, the proceeds
to be used to make final payment
on the Edison. The public is cor
dially Invited. ,
Miss Zola Keen, the talented
young dramatic reader of Athena,
haa kindly consented to assist in
tha program.
riSNDLETON PRESBYTERIANS
SOON TO HAVE NEW CHURCH
A mw home for tha First Trashy,
torlan church, to cost bstween $a0,000
kd $40,000, is practically assured for
V I'endluton during tha coming year, A
building committea started its canvass
tor funds Monduy morning and has
mt with such rsady and gunerous re.
spouse that all uncertainty has seem
liifly boon wiped out
A few weeks ago the church board
decided to build a f2000 addition to
tha prassnt church at the corner of
' Alta and College streets. W,hon the
lommittea went out to raise the money
it whs lound that the general senti
mont of the congregation favored a
.rch home rather than an im
provement of tho old one. Lent week
the matter was dlscuwtod and at the
aervleea Sunday morning it was an
nounced that a new building had been
determined upon by lha -committee.
' The committee intends making tho
new church the most serviceable In
Ui dty. Provision W tnBd Xor
Inrjre iiiiililiiiluin, a Kunduy school
ruiini, riHim fur soclul guthcring
nil a kitchen.
Pendleton IUh Alhlclie ( lull
Heverul yunK men of Pendleton
have Interested thrmni'lvp in the
forming of th Wue Mountain r!ul,
which him livitn fmiiii'd fur ttwiul and
nlhlfllc fm Mf n. They hnve MiplU-
to lh MH'itilnry of utilt' for a chartef,
which I hey rMiert hav within a
few (liiyn. A liirpn riMitu l.i'iienUi I iiu
Itoiimlup ('iiciir Kim on Miiin olrvvt
in to be fitted up for a rluli rount.
CENTRAL POWERS
PROPOSE PEACE
Germany and Her Allies Ask
For Immediate Negotiations
to End World War.
Ilerlla (by elreless to Bayvlllel.
Uermany and her allies Tuesday pro
tM).ed to enter forthwith into peace
negotiations.
The following announcement wss
given out by the semi official Over
seas Nsws Agency:
The chswcellor received, one after
another, the repreiwnutives of the
Vnlled Bute of Amerlra and lpsln
ami Hwltierlsml. that Is. of th slatea
proteetlng Cerrasa lnteret In hostile
foreign countries. , The chancellor
transmitted to them a not and asked
them to bring It to the knowledge of
the hostile governments.
in the note the four allied, (central)
power propose to enter forthwith on
peace negotiation. The proposition
Uiey bring for such negotiations 4rv.
according to their firm belief, appro
priate for the etabllshincut or a last
ing peace.
"The government at Vienna, Con
tntlnopl and Sofia transmitted
Identical notes sad also communicated
with tha Holy see and all neutral
powers."
Chancellor von Bethmaiio Ilollwes,
In communicating to the Kelrhstag the
tact of the dispatch of the notes, ssld
the step wsa tsken on the ground of
humanity. The Teutonic allies, he
Mid, could not be comiuered. and they
awaited the anawrr of the entente
"with thst ereticiies of mind which
la- guaranteed to u by our exterior
and Interior strength and by our clear
conscience."
AlthmiRh Chancellor von Itethnmnn
llollwrg did not dlwliwe Hie definite
propnols on which Oermsny and her
allie are prepared to make peace In
hi speech before the Relchstsg, such
proposals are ready and will be com
munlcated to the entente power It
the chancellor's offer should fall upon
reepouslve ears. . '
Parle Press Derldts German Offsr.
Paris. The offer of peace of Chan
cellor von Belhtnson Ilollweg Is re
ceived with a chorus of derision In
the French press. The newspaper
are unsnimous that It Is sn admission
that the altuatlon Is getting critical
In Germany and that the chancellor
wants a way out before It is Vk late.
His move Is considered to have the
additional advantage thst. In the event
of its tslllng, It will enable him to
throw the blsme for the continuation
of the wsr on the allies.
London 8ntlmnt la Against Peso.
London. A strong current of public,
genllment opposed to the German
peace proposal was evident In the ex
pression both from publlo men and
tha British press.
NEW MINISTRY IS
FORMEDJNJNGLAND
London In the new ministry, Mr.
Lloyd Oeorne, Lord M liner, Farl Cur
ion. Andrew nonar t-aw and Arthur
Henderson form what Is officially
tertud the war csblnet, while the
others, who ordinarily have been des
lgnated as cabinet ministers, are call
ed heads of depsrtments.
This novel orgsnlsatlon eoncen
trstcs Tsr more power In the hands ol
the prime minister than the nrltish
system ever has known. Mr. Lloyd
George has not hesitated to piace uim
..i m s nnsitlon more closely resem
bltng! a dictatorship than' ho wa will
ing to give his predecessor.
The complexion of the new povern
ment Is IS Liberals, 15 Colonists, three
Lahoritis and the president of the
boards. of trade snd education and the
shipping controller, who have aeon
attached to 00 parlies. .
LISTEN,
M' iLik h HP'fh I130 Aflour )wp
LKOhhN i'LANUE UKKAILS
.NUWiHLU.N I'AtlriC ittAI.N
Llocuuse of a broKon flange on a i 'Two cases of typhoid which have
freight car. itfht. cars of toe north- Lroi eii out within toe past tw wetk
iwuuU Noiuiern 1'aciiic fre.glit tram b" tiie pan Shaw school o n Mcisy
wai pi;eJ up in a wreck M vannycie pj-eali have caused the health otficcr
Mti.)on feHtuiduy afternoon. Nooiieto torbio the ue ut wur liom the
b.J-lW in uie wreck but traaic iwvi wet: lor oiiiiking puipos; uu-
was interlerred with to tne extent id no examination is nuiue. Mm
that since iliat time It ha been nee- Nori Holmes was the first victim,
essary Ivr tne passenger train to She .was immediately taken to i'en-
luahe a tansir arouiiu ute wreckage. diton where she has been in the care
'lliu wietk occurred near Ring u- of physicians at the hotpiul. About
lieu at 1 p. m. Saturday. The treight ten ttays lattr simitar symptoms were
uum was moving siowiy at Uis tone, noticed in Irwin llarrUon but his case
.r ..vm u..-, uiM.e - developed d rapidly that the.e was
fl to leave tha trade, abioKeifn6: .ppoitlftittyto take hiro to the
iwi.bo on oi.e oj tiie i.t-a being hospital. 1 he appearance of two
tiiu cuu. Oi tne cara in tue pucup cases irom the same school but from
4...1 v. .v-tfu v.u- famiiiea living in different parts of
......ii tviuiiicleiy over. A cur loaded the district, led the physician to be-
....... ...... i.i o.ci tiii iico oo toe licve Uut the well was the cause and
trucks in some manner were thrown he hus sent samples of water to Cort-
tiuin under toe car, leaving too . laud for examination, and given orders
,tnoul wlicc.. to boil all wuler pending the report.
H wieckuig crew from l'asco was 'the well is a closed one with a ce-
caiied to ciear tne true a and worked merited pit and there hus never Le-
u.oii 8 p. m. hniuimiy. tjoing into fore been any 'Contamination. It is
i co tor tne mgni too crew was not used during the summer.
caiied out lor a small wreck on tha " - ' . . -t
S. C. &. S. with Uo result that tin , ' '" Statehood ,
woik at King was delayed. A bill lor atatehood lor ha wa.i and
another lor equal suffrage tor the tcr-
1917 WHEAT AT $1.10 ritory were irt tho euitcase of 1'iince
CON TU ACTS MAD r Oit ; Kalanianaole, delegate to
congress from that territory, who was
At a pike reputed to be $1.10 per in San Francisco recent.y, en route
bushel, two si.mil sales ot next crop to Washington, U. C. Frioceas Kal-
nave been made in Pendleton, anionaoie, accompanying her husband,
Thar is a report in.circu.auon to me 'd she expected to work lor the
caect Uiat a puce ot U a bushel suurage bill. -
was paid on on., deal but tins price Among other things Jcanette Ban.
is denied by buyers, who assert T.10 kin will now have her name prmted
has been the outside price ouered on "Who's Who," where her name has
next year' wheat. But h" case
Un a basis of the Chicago quo- every one in this countiy now knows
tations tor July wneat, tne price of she is and also that she has duly
fl.iU for Eastern Oregon wneat is arrived.
conservative, tiowever, it is pointed Grovo. Clackamas county, has
out that our wheat has no und,.., y Ux fc h.
in the Chicago pit because it has al
ways been going to Liverpool, rather ,cmA un hus been prt,pttrcj foP
than the EasU Consequent y it .a saui ; t
to be .mpossible lor brokers to .nake
oeiivery tor inland empire wheat o n
Chicago sales without suffering U t add S2000. V. , '..tl
heavy dockage. . Tortland merchants made an excur.
AOMEN OFFICIALS ?ion 'st investigate the llax
ALMOST LOSE OUT industry now being developed in the
' Willamette valley. ' s
It has been learned thut Mayor- Eugene The aggregate Ux levy is
elect Laura StarcUei- and the six wo- 18. 1 6 mills for county and 42.9 mills
men city officials who are scheduled for the city.
to take charge X the municipal af. The destruction of birds costs thu
fairs of Umatilli January first, were countiy $1,000,000,000 a year, it is es
neany disqunlUie ' Mayor Starcher timated. , .
auddeiily reincmboi-ed Saturday night 1 ;
., . .. f.i. Tiill tHvil" I.afe Mc Bride's IS al
ulae uie couiu-w iu'sv
the votes. We ; hut ledly summoned
the council andv-couuted . the ballots
just before the four-day time limit
. ... ..:.i. if
eXPlieU. JjUirtnec sum. iH"""
tl,a women be disqualified, I could
uie wi v i
nOVer llMv 'Rwllo living iajnssi - -
world w.old have been too small to
i- hold the men officials."
"Mail Early" i Advised
Another appeal to the public to
nmil their (llirnclnms packages curly
to prevent a crush of mnil in the final
days before the holidays, haa been fa-
suinl ly the posloffico "department,
It is expected that the postal facilities
will be taxed to capacity this yaur.
UfJCLL,
Wright in MilwaukM Leader.
TWO T P1IOIU CASES
ON MtKAV CREEK
- . ... r,.
ways at your disposal. I hone $2.
ArUon. Is Now Dry.
Phoenix. . Aril. The constltntinnn!
- - , ... j i
prohibition amendment adopted at he
November election' became effective
-
with the Issuance by the governor of
a proclamation. Liquor now in th"
itate. according to law. becomes con
traband. . X '
Greek Blockade 1 Announced
U'ahlncton The Matfi departmoTtt
has received official n-tUiiatiou rt
the bl Akade of Greece by the elites
in a communication from the Freuca
joverumcat.
Cll.UU.hl) WITH KILLING
HSli WITH IlVXAMITE
On last Tuesday, 01 na Hathaway,
Dewey I'urcell and William Norris, of
Itiltur, Orejfin, were hailed before th
juKtke toui t of John lay, on a chart;
uf Leinif implicated with p:irlM: uning
dynamite for the killinff of fi h in the
waters of Middle Fork of the John
liny river trihulaiies. On entering
ii plea of Kuilly, they were severally
fineij 100 and coots.
Undt-r municipal owr.ernhip the V.u.
K-oe watur board has addtnl a two
l.iill tax levy.
3 MEASURES READY
FOR COIiSIjERATiOii
Congress to Get Down ta Ac
tual Work This Week on
Immigration Cill.
Washington. Congress will get
down to actual work th; week. Three
measures are ready for Immediate con
sideration. They are the District ot
Columbia prohibition bill, immigration
bill and corrupt practice measure.
After debate over the exclusion of
alien on account of race, the senate
adooted the committee amendment to
the inimlsration bill, which would bar
Hindus aod certain other Asiatics
without mentioning thein by came,
with aa added provision stipulating
that nothing in the act shall be con
sirutd to repeal any existing law,
treaty or agreement which serves to
prohibit or restrict immigration.
The cotnmitce amendment pre
scribes certain geographical areas
from which immigrants shall not be
admitted instead of naming races or
nationalitlea. a was done la the bill
as it passed the house.
Nstlon Wide Food Probe Is Planned.
Officials conducting the government
inquiry into the high cost of living vir
tually have completed a program to
place before President Wilson and At
torney General Gregory, providing for
simultaneous grand Jury Investigation
through the country.
It is understood that In addition to
the officials now directly engaged in
collecting information, other may be
named.
It wa said that doubt no longer ex
isted as to whether there had been
combinations of men to increase coal(
prices, ami that effective means to
punish those who have violated tha
law In contributing to the rises were
being studied. '
Labor Men Seeking Substitute Plan.
Congressional action on President
Wilson's railway legislation program
probably will await the result of ef
forts of labor leaders to draft as a
substitute for all forms of compulsory
arbitration a plan for dealing with
strikes, actual and threatened, which
will be agreeable to all concerned.
The determination of the president
to try to make Impossible such a sit
uation as he faced last September In
the railroad dispute ha aroused all
branches of labor to the greatest ac
tivity. The unofficial alliance between
the American Federation of I-abor and
the four railway brotherhoods, arrang
ed for the purpose, among other
things, of opposing "dangerous legis
lation," is bearing its first fruit in
conferences between representatives
of both organizations for the purpose
of drafting a plan that will shelve all
compulsory arbitration bills.
Belgian Deportation Sti'l Go On.
With plblicatlon ot the American
protest to Germany on the deporta
tions of .Belgians, state department of
ficials disclosed the Cnited States gov
ernment has exhausted its means of
diplomacy and has laid the case before
American public opinion, from which
It will expect to draw guidanc for the
next steps, if any be taken.
Germany's reply, conveyed In con
versstions with Charge Grew at Ber
lin, by Chancellor von Bethmann-Holl-weg,
Is that the deportations are re
garded as justified on the grounds of
social necessity. .
Official information shows also that
the deportations are continuing.
T"TT 7- i
Calls Indian Councd
t
gupertntendont E. L. Swart-lander,
OI tne umttliua., inuian re;r.
has called a council of the Indian al
lottees' of the Umatilla reservation for
the purpose of learning tbeir saoti
ments on a proposal to allot tribal
l.imls to the children cr keep it in
a lump fur tho benefit of the tribe.
Springfield has dedicated a S3I..00Q
Metiodist church aud parsouage.
BLUE LIOUIJTAEl ROAD
IS LOCAL CLU3 TOPIC
The Wti ton WVIfare club Tue -day
owning timk up a live topic?
relating to the proix a -d new road
wra the liluca, starting at Klgin
und connecting at a :.o.nl near
Wculon with the rnaea'tam road
between 1 'end I dim and Waila
Walla.
This i one of the mountain high
ways of which A. F. Alexander
of Walla Walla has bwnsuihan
anb-nt and dntaiit promoter. As
it wiil run through the Wimaha
forest reserve, substantial aid for
it is expected from the federal
government. Congrc-eiman La Fol
kttc of Washington has interest
ed himself in its behalf, and the
route waa recently inspected by
a representative of the goverment.
Tl;e prorKjs'd route will follow
the old Woodward toll road, with
the exception of a chtnge of four .
or five miles by which the dinger
hill and the tollate hill wil, be
avoided.
In common with other Inland Em
pire towns Weston I a i been re
quested to tend resolutions to Wash
ington urging support of the road.
President Pike appointed S. A.
Barnes, Dr. F.' 1. Watts and
Clark Wood as the local committee.
WESTON COLLEGE EOT
VISITS PORTLAHO HEMS
(Social to the Leader.)
Corvallis, Or., Dec. 14.--Herman
O'Harra was among the O. A. C.
student pharmacists who wi.hr ro
fessor rulton, Mr. Duncan, Mr.
Miller and Mr. Dutcher recer.tly
vitited the chemical industries of
Portland and vicinity a order U at
tliey might become acqutii.ted
wiUi chemists' problems and that
these industries might become
more intimately acquainted , w ith
the college.
The woolen and paper mill.- ol
Oregon City. Portland Rubber
Mills, Portland Oxygen and Hydro
gen Co.'s laboratory and plant,
inwards & Lozel's Commercial La
boratory, Luckel King Soap Co..
Union Meat Co.'s plant and labor
atory, 1 ortland Gas & Coke Co.
Portland Electric Steel Foundry
and the Columbia Creosoting Co.
were all visited. '
Tiie delegation censisted of Jap
anese, Chinese, German, Irish and
Jew Mi as well as American stu
dents. They were entertained at
luncheon by the Union Meat Co.
and banqueted at the Hazelwood.
They attended a meeting of the
American Associated Chemists, tf
which many of them are members.
Mr. O'Harra is a junior in .
Agriculture and a member of the
Arcadia club.
MEACKAM TIMBER LAND
BOUGHT FOR CORDWOOD
Under the terms of a deal closed
Tuesday the Smythe-Lonergan Co., of
Pendleton, becomes the owner of 52J
acres or timber land within a short
distance of Meacham. The land was
tought of Mrs. Lyda McDonald, wu
of tieorge McDonald, and the con
sideration was between $8000 and
19000. On the land it is estimated
there are from 12,000 to 14.000 cords
of red fir, yellow pine and black pine.
The new owners p'-an to cut several
thousand cords of this at once to put
ou the market, t . 5 -
Northern Birds in UtnatiUa County
Further evidence .of an exception,
ally cold winter in the arctic regions
was found Sunday near Hermistou,
by Stanley G. Jewett, local ornithol
ogist, when he succeeded in securing
specimens of several northern birds
that very rarely come this far south.
Two of these ara western tree spar
rows. The only record of these birds
ever having been seen this far south
before was in 1882. William Brew
ster, noted ornithologist of Cambridge,
Mass., has a record of such a bud
having been killed in Walla Walla
that year. Mr. Jewett also secured
an Arctic horned owl which is con
sidered different from' the snowy owl,
being barred instead of white or
speckled. He also secured some nor-thci-n
dirike, c.-mnmiily called butcher
bird. Atl of thc;;o buds range Hio..t
ly in the hortldundi. In all Mr. Jew
ett took note of more than 5 species
of winter birds.
-
