The Intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
Vol. 23. No. 42.
Railroad Brotherhoods Boldly
Challenge Statements Made
by Railway Officials.
REVENUES COULD BE
CONSERVED IN MANY WAYS
Millions In Dividends Are Freely
Given Away On Fictitious
Stock.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, May 27.—In a
statement issued today by the four
railroad brotherhood organizations
that are concertedly demanding a
shorter work day for freight train
crews, attention is called to state­
ments made by railroad officials, that
roada cannot afford any increase in
train operation.
The employes challenge the sincer­
ity of these statements and have
pointed out several ways in which
railway revenues could be conserved,
which are now wasted or given away.
Stockholders of railroads were
never better off than they are now,
and stockholders of a good many
roads have participated in the "cut­
ting" of a good many "melons" in re­
cent years.
During the period of 1900-1910, ten
western railroads alone issued new
stock for $2 50,584,961 less than its
market value, or practically gave
away this enormous amount in bon­
uses to stockholders.
Fictitious Stock Dividends.
In other words, in addition to cash
dividends, together with appropria­
tions to property and reserves for the
benefit of stockholders, the stock­
holders of these tne transportation
companies had conferred nion them
in the shape of rights to subscribe for
new stock issues at less than prevail
ing market prices, more than a quar­
ter of a billion dollars.
From the standpoint of the finan­
cial administration of the railroads,
this method of finance e^lso had an
added significance. If the new stock
issues had been disposed of at market
prices—the prices which could have
maintained in the open market by
these companies, if they had not
given these special bonuses to stock­
holders—they could have secured the
same amount of cash toy ajj issue of
$173,12^,796 less-capital stock.
The transportation companies,
therefore, lost the use of this much
•capital which they could otherwise
have had, or considered from another
angle, they increased their capital
.stock unnecessarily $173,122,796 with
out adding a dollar to the earning ca­
pacity of their properties.
The dividends paid on these ficti­
tious stock issues in 1913 alone
amounted to $11,276,495.
The increased productive efficiency
of train crews, which largely was re­
sponsible for the big revenue gains,
-was used to pay dividend charges
upon unnecessary stock issues, which
were arbitrarily created for the bene­
fit of the stockholders and did not
represent capital actually invested in
the railroads.
During this same period of ten
years the same ten railroads gave
away in underwriting commissions,
$9,120,124. The total par value of
funded debt issued by them for cash
during these years was $885,016,683.
The cash proceeds were only $841,
H26,307 the market value of these
bonds, however, was $850,446,431
and the excess of market value of
these securities over the net proceeds
to the railroad companies was $9,
120,124.
Loss To Railroads.
This amount represented an actual
loss to the railroads. These transac­
tions also represented an unnecessary
increase in the funded debt of the ten
railroads of $9,455,952, for the reason
that if the bonds had been placed in
the open market at the prices obtain-
i&'Sss
Continaed on Page 2
greatest fights in the interest of
organized labor and liberty for
the men of labor of America is
being planned in the House of
Representatives. While the scope
of the proposed action affects
only the government employes
immediately it will have a moral
effect cn industrial conditions
throughout the United States,
since it will reflect the wishes of
the average workingman.
The Taylor system of shop
management, as most members of
organized labor are aware, is a
system through which the em­
ployer hopes to speed up the
workman in the shop to his ut­
most capacity to wring from him
•the last ounce of strength of
which he is capable, substitute a
cheap grade of labor for skilled
labor, eliminate all but the best
workmen, 'and drive -organized la-
National Gua*
7
Lobby Pulls
Down Subsidy of $50,000,000
from Uncle Sam.
MILITARY MACHINE''
DECLARED A MENACE
Senator Borah and Others Wage
Hot Fight Against Danger­
ous Measure.
WASHINGTON, May 26.—It is
about time that labor woke up to
what is being "put over" on it in the
name of "preparedness."
As it now turns out, the biggest
single item of "pork" in the whole
"preparedness" campaign is likewise
the very feature which has the most
menace to the interests of labor, or­
ganized and unorganized.
That item is the $50,000,000 sub­
sidy which the powerful national
guard lobby has pulled down—or
threatens to pull down—for the or­
ganized militia of the several states.
Most of this $50,000,000 will go di­
rectly into the pockets of the mem­
bers of the guard. In salaries rang­
ing from $500 per annum down.
This salary is frankly designed to at­
tract and hold men to the disagree­
able duties which the business inter­
ests of the country impose, at inter­
vals, upon the national guard. The
remainder of the appropriation will
be used to purchase armored motor
cars, machine guns and other types
of "efficient" equipment.
The slogan of the national guard in
thi9 raid upon the treasury is: "Fork
over a subsidy and 'federalize' us."
That contains two propositions,
both of which are inimical to labor.
Opposed InComgres.
Senator Borah, .n the upper house,
and Congressman Meyer London in
the lower, are making a hard fight
against the national guard proposi­
tion and they are being backed by
those senators and congressmen who
find the national guard lobby pretty
hard to stomach.
Senator Borah has attacked the
scheme on two grounds—first, that is
a vicious thing to build up, through a
subsidy from the federal treasury, a
huge military machine which will
grow to dominate fea~ral politics/ ?Je
predicts that the national guard will,,
in a few years, be demanding any­
where from $100,000,000 to
$150,000,000 and that the congress­
man will be afraid to say no. His
second point is that the national
guard, through its development of
the court martial, has. demonstrated
that it is unfit to be entrusted with
any more power.
"Our forefathers dreaded the idea
of a big standing army, said the sena­
tor, "but here you propose to create
a standing army of 400,000 with
greater powers than any army ever
had on American soil.
"For this national guard machine
will have more power than the regu­
lar army has ever dreamed of hav­
ing. It will have three sorts of power.
Like the regular army, it will have
the power of the gun, the power of
brute force, not something to be
lightly handed over to.any group of
men. Secondly, it will have what the
regular army has never had since the
Civil War—the power to court mar­
tial and punish civilians. Since the
Dick law was passed a few years ago,
the national guard has repeatedly su­
perseded the civil authorities with an
effrontery unparalleled in American
history. And finally this huge mili­
tary machine will have—what the
regular army does not have—the
power of the ballot. By its vote it
will control or aim to control, federal
politics in every congressional dis­
trict, to make and unmake members
of both houses of congress. Our fore­
fathers would turn in their graves if
they could see us yielding ourselves
Continued on Pave 3
At this very moment one of the bor out of existence. It means a
veritable industrial despotism in
which the workmen will have ab­
solutely no voice.
The principal instrumentalities
through which the advocates of
the Taylor system hope to achieve
their ends are
First, time study of workmen
with a stop-watch to see how fast
they can do a piece of work.
Second, giving them a premium
or bonus for reaching this high
standard of requirements.
Third, the introduction of func­
tional foremanship, that is, each
workman having eight Separate
bosses, each boss having jurisdic­
tion over a separate part of his
work.
Fourth, analizing and classify­
ing all trade knowledge, concen­
trating this knowledge in the
planning section and doling it out
front time to tiihe to inferior and
unskilled workmen, thus separat­
ing the mechanic from his trade
and placing him more at the
mercy, of .the employer. ...
The employers liability company insurance agents of
Minnesota have organized for the purpose of preventing
the legislature of this state from passing a state insur­
ance law to take the place of the present unsatisfactory
Workingmens' Compensation Act.
The organization is known as the "State Insurance
Federation of Minnesota." It pretends to speak for
more than 25,000 citizens of the state who are identi­
fied with the insurance business in one or another of its
manifold branches.
In a circular letter last week issued to members of
the legislature the federation also claims to speak for
policy holders in stock or mutual companies, for mem­
bers of fraternal societies having insurance features,
who are opposed to the proposition that insurance of
any kind is a proper governmental function.
In another circular from Minneapolis, dated May
15, 1915, and addressed to "insurance workers and the
insuring public" issue is taken with The Labor World
on account of an editorial recently published in this
paper declaring for state insurance. The circular does
not attempt to answer the strong argument advanced
in behalf of state insurance, but it pretends to make
light of the statement made by this paper in which we
asserted that the state already appropriated $2,583,000
per annum to support 10,000 of its "crippled" population
in asylums, alms houses and prisons, and it should also
be regarded as a duty of the state to care for the thous­
ands of men and women who are annually crippled
while producing the wealth of the state.
This is the answer of the insurance men to the de­
mand of organized labor for state insurance:
"The argument, in short, is that the state has pre­
cisely the same concern in disabled wage-earners as in
its naturally dependent wards, the feeble-minded, the
pauper and the criminal classes that despite the fact
that the state has already provided a beneficient system
of workmen's compensation whereby, in lieu of civil
damages, the industrial employer is made financially
responsible for all accidents to his employes, it should
go still further and abolish the institutions which it has
licensed to write insurance under that system, substi­
tuting therefor an experimental insurance plan of its
own.
"We do not believe the self-respecting wage-earners
would relish being thus classed with the inmates of the
state's charitable Or penal institutions, nor, if they did,
that the taxpayers at large would care to finance any
such paternalistic theory of government."
The weakness of the- position taken by the insurance,
agents te exposed when they state that Minnesota has
already provided for a beneficient system of working
men's compensation.
No workingman will be very much concerned about
the subtle plea of the insurance agents to link the in­
jured workingmen with the inmates of the state's char­
itable or corrective institutions. Indeed an unwarranted
distinction is made between them. Every self-respect­
ing wage earner has sympathy for the unfortunate in­
mates Of every institution in Minnesota. It is but a step
from workingmens' compensation as it obtains in Minne­
sota to a charitable institution.
The insurance agents do not care anything about the
injured workingmen. They are interested only in mak­
ing secure the employers' liability companies. Union
labor holds that there is a needless waste under work­
ingmens' compensation when private insurance compan­
ies carry the risk for employers. Union labor has no
scruples about putting liability companies out of busi-
ACTORS AND BOOKERS
AGREE ON UNION SCALE
BOSTON, May 25.—At a conference
between the Central Labor Union,
White Rats Actors' union and the
United Booking company a minimum
wage will be paid to actors and act­
resses, the first in stage history in this
country, it is stated. The wage agreed
to is $5 a day in Boston with trans­
portation if sent out of town. The
managers officially recognize the
White Rats Actors' union, which is
composed of vaudeville actors and ac­
tresses and is affiliated to the Ameri­
can Federation of Labor.
Fifth, introducing a severe sys­
tem of discipline. This is abso­
lutely necessary, due to then in­
tricate nature of the Taylor sys­
tem in order to make sure that
every workman performs his part
of the task in schedule time in
order that collisions of plans and
procedure of work may not take
place.
Sixth, Taylor system advocates
believe that their system will en­
able them to so change the nature
and conditions of work as to be
able to break up a trade at any
time, thus making solidarity and
unity of action for workmen im­
possible, due to taking, away their
sense of common interests.
Seventh, each workman under
the Taylor system will have his
task and pay regulated that the
apparent interest between him
and other, workmen be6omes less
distinct than under our present
arrangement, thus destroying the
very fundamental principles of
the trade union movement, which
Jcthe only-iinion movementjthat .•
LIABILITY INSURANCE MEN ORGANIZE
TO
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PBOGHES^. HlSTOR^oIf
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, MAY 27,1916.
GARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
UNITE WITH A. F. OF L.
WASHINGTON, May 25.—The
Gary (Ind.) School Teachers' associa­
tion, affiliated to the A. F. of L. was
assisted by the latter organization in
planning a campaign for increased
pay and better working conditions,
President Cbadwick of the teachers'
association .wrote to Secretary Mor­
rison:
"I wish to thank you for your
prompt assistance. It makes all of us
appreciate the American Federation
of Labor, and we feel that we have
good backing in our work."
ALLEGED "SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT" ONLY ANOTHER NAME FOR SLAVERY
up to date has proven success­
ful in the United States.
The proponents of the Taylor
system and similar systems
choose to call it "scientific man­
agement." In reality it should be
called "scientific slavery." We,
as laboring people, loathe the
term "slavery," but if a despotic
and autocratic system of shop
management is introduced in
work shops all over the United
States there will be absolutely no
liberty left.
So-called "scientific manage­
ment" or "scientific slavery"
contemplates the analizing and
classifying of everything that re­
lates to a workman's efficiency,
such as his general health, his
eyesight, his hearing, his religion,
his politics, his home environ­
ments, his age, and many other
personal matters that the self-re­
specting workman considers none
of anybody's business but his
own. All these things the em­
ployer who favors, tbe Tj^rlor sys­
tem expects ioW^ve- down Jin,
v,*ck
wMte, so that ey/
3
ness. In doing so no property rights will be destroyed.
Nothing will be confiscated, except that the £ood will
which they claim as an asset and which was given to
them by the law will be taken away from them and
held !»y the state.
Thoughtful workingmen recognize that just and ade­
quate compensation cannot be paid to injured working
men, under the present law and the present system with­
out unduly penalizing the industries of the state.
Union labor presents to the people of Minnesota a
plan of state insurance, both as a social and economic
proposition. By diverting the money which employers
of labor pay for state Insurance into a state fund, in­
jured workingmen will receive higher compensation
than Is now paid to them without any additional cost to
the industries of the state. This is good economics. By
doing so the state will solve a great social problem.
It will provide a law for permanently caring for all
workingmen, who become totally incapacitated and will
provide, for widows and orphans during the entire period
of their dependency. This is not done and cannot be
done under the present law, which at the best com­
pensates for only from 300 to 400 weeks at the most
After that the state through its charitable institutions
or private charity must provide for caring for the vic­
tims of industrial accidents.
There is no reason for employers' liability companies
to exist: under any system of workingmens' compensa­
tion:. The claim agent for the private companies cheats
the very purpose of the compensation act. He is inter­
ested only in saving dollars for his company and cares
nothing about the future "social welfare of the injured
workingman or his dependents.
No man who has studied the question of workingr
mens** compensation from the standpoint of the injured
man is opposed to state insurance. Indeed, the great
number of disinterested men in America who give their
best thought to this problem have openly declared that
no-just system of compensation can obtain except
through the medium of state insurance.
The insurance agents through their federation, at the
very outset, are attempting to kill the program of the
labor unions for state insurance by a cry of "paternal­
ism^' and "socialism," but we should worry. The best
way. to head off socialism is to beat the socialists to it.
The people and interests who cry the loudest against
paternalism are the same classes which get the most out
of,'It. Workingmen of Minnesota must choose between
th$ paternalism of the state and the paternalism of the
ip?ii rance companies. So far as we are concerned we
to 'le our own master.
The primary election, at which candidates for the
legislature will be nominated, will be held Monday, June
19. Every workingman in Minnesota is urged to inter­
view all candidates and urge them to give this question
of state insurance their most serious thought. It is hot
necessary to try to influence any man running for office.
Just let him study the question for himself and if he is
fair and honest he will decide in his own mind that
state insurance offers the only system for providing- just
and adequate compensation to every man and woman
who may be injured in the state.
The insurance agents are merely interested in saving
their jobs. Compared with the large inumber of work­
ingmen who become injured every year there are only
a few of such jobs to lose. Their energies and activities
can well be directed in some other channel. They should
not be permitted to continue to make money on the
crushed bones and mangled bodies of injured working
men.
MINERS' WIDOWS PAID
COMPENSATION CLAIM
ALTOONA, Pa., May 25.—The ad­
vantages of the new state compensa­
tion law were shown last week in the
case of the widows of eight miners
killed by an explosion in a mine at
Robindale. In less than a week offi­
cials of the state insurance fund and
the mine management reached an
agreement and the widows will re­
ceive approximately $25,000. The
state officials have advanced the wo­
men sufficient money to meet any
emergency until the payment of com­
pensation begins.
workman in the United States, if
this system goes into effect gen­
erally, can expect the Manu­
facturers' Association and other
employers' associations to have
on file a complete analysis of his
value as an industrial worker.
With this knowledge in the
possession of the Manufactures'
Association, and with the power
of selection which comes from it,
the American workman will be
absolutely at the mercy of the
employer -and will have become
enmeshed in an industrial scheme
from which it will be difficult, if
not impossible, to extract himself.
Advocates of the Taylor system
acknowledged in a hearing be­
fore the Committee of Labor of
the House of Representatives that
the Taylor system was built up
in accordance with the law of
"the survival of the fittest," and
they expected to operate it in ac­
cordance with the law of "supply
and demancL"
The fight above referred to
is being. plumed in the House of
ia-incc
SOCfETY
TO SETTLE STRIKES
Chester M. Wright Tells How
Progressive Governor of Sonora
Doies It.
STATE TOOK MINE AWAY
FROM AMERICAN OWNERS
This Brought Them to Time and
Wage Raise Was Quickly
Granted.
By CHESTER M. WRIGHT.
Shortly after the American troops
crossed the border into Mexico it was
reported in this paper that there had
been a strike at an American-owner
copper mine in Sonora, Mexico.
The workers in that mine wanted
more wagesi Of course, strikes for
more wages are not unusual, but
there was something about this strike
that made it stand out from the ordi­
nary run of disputes.
And this is what gave the story its
unusual importance. Governor P.
Elias Calles was in charge of matters
in the State of Sonora. He declared
that if the mine were permitted to
remain idle the State would have to
care for the. miners, else they would
starve.
Now, Calles is the. kind of man who
doesn't go digging through books a
century old to find precedent for his
acts. He uses his head, and when he
uses his head he figures o.ut what the
result is going to be for the men who
work. That is what he did in the case
of these strikers.
The Tesult was that the govern­
ment of the State of Sonora took the
mine away from its American owners
and operated it. The Stat© paid the
miners and gave an accounting to the
owners.
So, while they were striking against
the profit-hungry owners the State
was helping them by giving them
regular jobs.
That action made this strike dif­
ferent from any strike we have
known about. But it didn't stop
there.
It develops now that the strikers
have won their strike. The owners
have their mine back, for a while, at
least, and* the workers have their
jobs but what is much more import­
ant, they have been given 15 per
cent naore than thSy strack for/
That ia what happens in Mexico
now. Is it any wonder that Amer­
ican profit hunters are doing their
best to stir up intervention senti­
ment? Is it any wonder that they
don't want Mexico to build up the
kind of government that thinks more
of workers than it does of mine
owners?
When the capitalist press emits its
next howl for intervention, remember
the Sonora mine strike. And you
might remember another mine strike
In Sonora, too, back under the reign
of Diaz. In that strike the American
mine owners marched American gun­
men across the border to the mine
and Mexican miners were massacred,
things are changing in Mexico.
About a week ago a New York e'di
tor, Max Eastman, of The Masses,
had an audience with President Wil­
son. Eastman suggested that if the
American troops would guard the
American side of the border thor­
oughly there would .be no more dan­
ger. It seems that his suggestion
may bo worked out jga
.'practice under
the new agreement with the Consti­
tutionalist government.
It Is absolutely certain that if the
money powers will keep their hands
off there need be no intervention.
The threat of the American workers
has been the great power in keeping
the interventionists down.
We must keep on guard. We must
not relax in our demands that there
be no intervention. We have done a
pretty good job of it so far, and we
can win complete victory by just
keeping wide awake a little while
longer.
with a clause to be presented by
Congressman TaVenner of Illinois,
as an amendment to the Fortifi­
cation bill when it comes before
the House. It was expected that
this bill was to be considered be­
ginning April 26th, but owing to
other legislation intervening it
may not come up until about May
15. The fortification appropria­
tion bill supplies the money from
which the funds necessary to
operate the Taylor system in
some arsenals are taken. This
clause to be presented^ by Mr.
Tavenner is similar to one in­
cluded by Congress in last year's
army bill, which was effective as
far as it went. The provisions of
the clause are substantially the
same as H. R. 8665 which pro­
hibits the use of the two basic
features of the Taylor system in
government plants, namely, time,
study and the premium or bonus
systems of payment. "Scientific
slavery" engineers claim that it
is impossible for tfciem to make
the system as.flradtic as th§jr
Wojald
The working claw faovement to
be most effective must be conducted
by the workers themselves in the in­
terest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or bntters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
Sixty Thousand New York Work-i
ingmen and Women Strike for
Better Conditions.
PREFERENTIAL UNION
SHOP FORCES ISSUE
Struggle Said to Be Most Moment
tous in Labor Movement
of Today.
NEW YO*RK, May 27.—Sixty thou-i
sand union workers in the garment
trades of New York City are making-1
one of the gamest fights to protect ",
and raise the standard of living
among American wage-earners, that
has ever taken place in this country.]
Perhaps before this is read that:
struggle for the decent rights ofi
wage-earners will have spread to'
other cities, notably to Cleveland,
Chicago, Philadelphia and Btston,
and will have involved near to One-?
half million workers and their famU
lies.
The manufacturers in the cloak\
and skirt division of New York City's:
garment trades have declared a re-i
lentlesg war against all the workers
whose united action has sought to I
lift the^ -gajruLgnl-niaking industries!
out of the degradation and misery of
sweat shop conditions.
Three seasons of aibnormally large!
profits have emboldened the Manu~3
facturers' Association in the skirt and
cloak trades to strike at the heart of
the unions of their workers. They are 1
doing openly now what they have
done under cover, but with growing'
purpose, ever since the peace proto«|
col was established in 1910.
The workers in th» garment trades
have made every sacrifice to do away
with the sweat shop abomination. I
After long and "bitter struggle and
privation they forced the acceptance 1
of the Peace Protocol—"an experi-1'
ment in industrial self control," as it 1
has been called.
But that Peace Protocol provided
for decent working hours, sanitary,
and safe shops, and preferential rec­
ognition of the unions. So the Manu­
facturers' Association started In to
knock it out. Here is the way the
employers worked it.
They cut down the force of \work
era- tn-^tHefir .r^uiiar'br'
"infiide^
'«i
—-which were under the control
of
the agreement—and set up &
lot'ad
so-called "Independent Shops,'* which
were in reality'sweat shops. Some of
the independent shops are really ,**in-l
dependent" and "on the level/* and
that makes the imposture alt the 1
more shameful.
When the Protocol was adopted
there were between 1,100-and 1,200
shops in the cloak and skirt division1
or the ladies garment workers' trade.
But now there are 2,300 of these
shops, the great increase being1 of
shops where the workers have been
exploited under the most terrible'
conditions. Also, shops that used to
employ 500 to 600 workers each now
employ only from 20 to 75 each, al­
though the shops do three times the
former business. The answer is that
the workers have been turned out of
the factories where -the .^conditions
must be fairly^gopd^-Md the work]
has been 'fcent toutc to ^'contractors''
and ''sub-contE&fctors" to drive the*
workers in:a.real slavery..
The "insidefT shops with a, fewi 1
workers will be."sjiow places" along*
Fifth avenue. 'They are kept -up at
considerable expense as a sham to*
make the public and their customers
believe that "everything is lovely now.g
in the garment trades. But the vast]
bulk of the work is done for the same
manufacturers who own the "show
places" in the. sweat shops hidden
away in back-street lofts and _tene-1
ments.
The skirt and cloak manufacturers^
of New York City also threatened tai
send their work to the shops of other!
Continued an Face 2
these two instruments of oppress
sion.
The American workman may be
willing that the government2
should go to the very brink' of
war for the privilege of sailing on
any vessel he chooses on the open'
Sea. This privilege) however, is
one that the average workman
does not expect to avail himself
of. He is much more concerned
about whether or Hot anew spe-'
cies of slavery and oppression is
going to be introduced in the
United States and he has a right!
to expeet' his government toriotj
only refrain from introdueing inj
government shops "scientific
slavery,toa^tinprevenW
•:4
,'i]
Petitions are now coming in
every day from all sections of the
United States from members of
organized labor and their friends
protesting against the Taylor sys­
tem and urging the passage of
this legislation. Right now is an
opportune time for every labor
ing man to do. his bit for shop
liberty.
