NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 220
ituemn
SJeftger
m
MAIL SEIZURES
BY ALLIES WILL
STOP, IS BELIEF
: Washington Hopeful After
I Dispatch of Vigorous Pro
test on Practice
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, MAY 27, 191(1.
CemranT, 1(16. t tntTmto Ltson Cokfikt.
WILD WEST INDIANS VISIT INDEPENDENCE HALL
v NOTE DEMANDS A HALT
Ships to Put in at Kirkwall Vol
untarily for Search
of Cargoes
The Washington Administration con
iM.ntlv oxoccts from Great Britain and
'sS prance an early nnd favorable response
WftMo it3 emphatic protest against the
"vunwarranteu detention 01 snips lor
mall search purposes."
v State Department officials today gave
strong intimations that advance dis
cussions with Ambassador Spring
Bice had given the impression that
England would speedily comply with
the Amcricn demands as formulated by
the1 Administration and given out for
publication late last night. This was
node the more apparent by the an
nouncement that tho British Ambassa
dor had tried to head off tho sending of
the note by offering in outline conces
sions his country was willing to make.
Coincident with this attitude the in
teresting announcement was made at
Christiania late last night that here
after the Norwegian-American steam
ships would enter Kirkwall voluntarily
instead of causing international com-
, plications Dy trying to voiu scurcu uy
evasion of the British authorities, this
being one more illustration of the prac
tices in regard to neutral commerce
about which the United States in its
note to the Allied Powers strongly pro
tests. In the note addressed jointly to Great
Britain and France, America demands
that those Governments cease their in
terference with mails nassinc between
h the United States and other neutral
PJ countries.
if' inn nau; (iut?SLiuu liiu Biuuciibv ui
Great Britain and France in their re
sply to the first American note protest
ing against interferences with the
mails, quotes precedents established by
bith Governments, and announces that
the. present practices no longer will be
tolerated.
The note contains an outline of the
disastrous results of the British and
French policy to citizens of the 'United
i States. These include the loss of rare
.papers, such as patents, which cannot
DO. QUIlUCUtCU, Jl-gUi initio .LCfeututufe
the settlement of estates, papers relat
ing to legitimate business transactions,
and even the money, order, lists of the
lUnitcd States Government itself.
The two Governments are admonish
ed that only a Radical change in the
present policy, "restoring to the United
States its "full rights as tf neutral
Povrer, will satisfy this Government."
"ILLEGAL PRACTICE" U. S. CALLS
MAIL INTERFERENCE AT SEA
WASHINGTON. May 27. Early and
favorable response to the American mall
seizures protest to England and France Is
confidently expected by the Administration.
Intimations today from State Department
men were to the effect that ndnnce discus
sions between Ambassador Spring-Ttlce nnd
the Department had given the Imptesslon
that EncUnd Intended to comply with the
American demands.
This was the more evident from the fact
that the United States did not stipulate
exact changes that must be made, but In
stead demanded only the generality a rad
ical' change In the Allies policy. England
knows, however, what terms the United
States exacts, and as Sir Cecil has endeav
ored to head oft the note It is presumed
he has outlined concessions England is will
ing to make.
"IAWLKSS PRACTICE."
The noto was delivered to the British and
French Ambassadors In Washington sev
eral days ago nnd has. been forwarded by
cable to their respective Governments. It
challenges the legality of the methods that
w have been followed by the British and
rencn Governments, uescrioes me im
proper methods omploved by tho British
and French authorities In interrupting
mails" as a "lawless practice" which can
nq longer toe tolerated, and concludes with
the declaration that "only a radical change
in the present British and French policy,
restoring to the United States Its full rights
as a neutral Power, wilt satisfy tms uov
erntnent." After pointing out that American com
merclal interests are being injured, that
rights of property are violated, nnd rules
of international law nnd custom are "pal-
j, Jably disregarded" by the Anglo-French
policy of Interference with neutral malls,
- the note says;
The Government of the United
States, In view of the improper methods
employed by the British and French
authorities in Interrupting mails pass
ing between the United States and
other neutral countries and between the
, United States and the enemies of G(reat
Britain, can no longer tolerate the
wrongs which citizens of the United
States have suffered and continue to
suffer through these methods. To sub
mit to a lawless practice of this char
acter would open the door to repeated
violations of International law by the
belligerent Powers on the ground of
military necessity, of which the vio
lator would be the sole judge. Mani
festly a neutral nation cannot permit
Its rights on the high fseas to be deter
mined by belligerents or the exercise of
those rights to be permitted or denied
arbitrarily by the Government of a
W, Warring nation. The rights of neutrals
are aa sacred as the rights of belliger
ent and must be as strictly observed
The Government of the United States,
confident In the regard for Internation
al law and the rights of neutrals which
Buffalo Bill's charges are shown here sitting immediately beneath the Ferris painting depicting the scene in
Penn Treaty Park when William Penn signed the famous compact with tho aborigines.
FRENCH DASH
REGAINS PART
OF CUMIERES
Fierce Attack Drives Ger
mans From Section
of Village
TEUTON ASSAULTS VAIN
BERLIN, May 27. German troops
have penetrated the British position
near Fcstubert, north of La Bassce
canal, it was announced by the War
Office today.
The official statement admits that the
French penetrated the southern part of
the ullage of Cumicres, on the left
bank of the Mouse River.
East of the Mouse the Germans
have reached the heights southwest of
Thiaumont forest. The French at
tempted vainly to stem the German ad
ance by a counter-attack which was
repulsed.
South of Fort Douaumont two enemy
attacks failed.
PATHS, May 27.'
Gains of great Importance were made by
the French in a series of saugo assaults
northwest of Verdun last night.
French troops penetrated the German
position In Cumleres on the loft bank of
the Meuse, recapturing part of the Hinge
NEW PEACE HIT
SEEN IN GERARD'S
MEDIATION TALK
Ambassador to Berlin Says
U. S. Now Is Free
to Arbitrate
EXPECTS HOUSE VISIT
Continued on I'm four. Column Knur
RED MAN AND PALEFACE
AT LIBERTY'S CRADLE
Lra
Sixteen Indian Braves, in War
Apparel, Visit Inde
pendence Hall
Coutlnced on I'att four, Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
i For Philadr.lnhin and irininitllTIn.
!'' tonight and Sunday, with prob
Kly showers; gentle easterly winds.
V2L?1IWW let anwro nanu'vooM 13
isj J Vt 'rJnt 3" N IStn t. Ttoa
?s JJV1iL bwk No 289SS.J. with tho West--4ta
Baying Fund aajUtr? 1000 Watootit. w.
Oat t BB4 ntssi Alk y4OT
The red man and the paleface met today
under the roof! where Liberty was born.
History was turned backward temporarily
when 16 Indians stood around the picture
of the Penn Treaty Elm In Independence
Hall and murmured their approval as they
heard the history of the famous tree around
which Penn made the promise which was
neer broken
As they stood with sombre fuces about
the pa(ntlnff, the braves seemed a part of
the very picture Itself.
Th. Indian Kuests. clad In full War togs.
came from tho 101 Ranch vvJilch breaks
camp here tonight.
After hearing the story pf the Treaty
Elm the Draes were presented with pieces
of It decorated with American flags. Each
took the souvenir with a spirit of reverence
and tucked It Into a safe pocket n his quill
They were then taken to the Liberty Bell
and listened Intently ns Mr. Jordan told of
,U.'imwasn! light between palefaces," said
onVo S bK" I" explaining It to his
brother Each of the red mere touched the
beTl with a knowing nod of the head. show
fng that he was fully aware of the blood
shed andjwnfllct which It stood for
Chief Long Soldier, who with several
other chiefs present was la tho Custer
SLht Hked why the bell didn't ring
Him 'broke," said Chief Iron Cloud.
Get him fix." said Long Soldier
Tha braves appeared to be much crest
fallen whtn It was explained that the bell
could Ui ring as'" I" M Id P'C9 " th
The Indians then gathered out on. the
lawn of Independence Square and held
council, undoubtedly s many of their an
K had done perhaps In the earn spot
iwur before Bevolutlonary times.
BERLIN. May 27. Considerable sig
nificance l"j nttached to nn Interview with
Jnmes W Gerard, the American Ambassa
dor, printed In tho Munich Gazette, In
which Mr Gerard Is quoted ns saying1
Xow that concord exists between
Germany and tho United States fol
lowing submarine negotiations the
United States occupies an .absolutely
free position In the event she Is asked
to mediate In behalf of peace An o.uly
. pence Is as Important for neutrals na
for the belligerents It is believed that
peace Is on tha vva , It might be many
weeks in coming or It might bo only
vv eeks
It Is widely reported ftiat Colonel n M
House, known as the 'personal envoy" of
President Wilson, might make another trip
to Europe soon, coming to Berlin on his
round of visits, but thoie Is no olllcl.il con
firmation of tho report here In this con
nection, however, there Is a growing be
lief (hat if Colons llouso does come abroad
it will be In the Interests of peace.
IMPATIENT AT WILSON
That powerful agencies are at work In
favor of peace Is becoming more nnd more
evident, Ofllclul circles have made It plain
that German Is ready to open peace nego
tiations today or tomoriovv To the hulk
of Germany President Wilson would ho ac
ceptable ns a mediator, but the expres
sion Is now frequently heard that "unless
the American President tukes prompt ac
tion the honor of bringing peace may go to
some other Power"
Recently thero have been numerous ex
changes between the German and Austrian.
Foreign Offices, and there is no .doubt that
both Governments are In accord on the
question of peace The possibility of early
peace negotiations may have something to
do' with the Austro-Hungarlan offensive
ngalnst Italy, If the Austrlans can roll the
Italian soldiers back upon their own soil.
atie would be In a much better position to
enter a peace congress.
As matters stand today, Allied troops are
upon tho soil of the German Allies at only
three places.; Asiatic Turkey, Galicia and
Austria. Although the Central Powers
have lost their overseas colonies they have
conquered and hold three Kingdoms, ,not
counting Poland, namely, Belgium, Serbia
and Montnegro.
Although no one knows when peace will
come. It is being predicted by some Ger
man editors that the negotiations will be
held either In Stockholm or Madrid.
FAST FINISHES
EXPECTED TODAY
IN TRACK MEET
Yesterday's Performances"
Presage Lowering of Sev
eral Records
LITTLE ENTHUSIASM
By TEP MEREDITH
Cnptnln Penn Track Tenm
BOSTON. May 2f. Yesterday was a day
when the unexpected did not happen, but
gave way to the expected, Cornell, In ac
cordance with the dope which has been
used nil .season, came through strong In the
trials, qualifying IS men, which virtually
gives them the championship title.
The white Jersey nnd red "C" will be
seen In every final today with the exception
of the broad Jump
This, as I said before, was epccted, so It
cannot be called. tho feature of the trials.
The real feature was In Yale's placing 15
men jesterday who will bo in the finals to-
day. this was u mg hurpnse to all. nnd, as
things now stand, Yale seems to be the
strong favorite for second place Old Ell
placed men lp every event except the ham
mer throw and quarter mile. Tho New
Haven men are partlculirly strong In the
(laid events, placing two men In the pole
vault, two In the high jump, two In the
In ond Jump, and one man in the shot-put.
In the sprints Yale has four men, two In
the half mile and two In tfie hurdles.
Besides these men the Ells have the mile
nnd two mile events to help bolster up their
points.
Two records were smashed yesterday.
' Continued on Pace I'leten, Column l'our
CHALMERS VS. PFEFFER
IN FIRST PHILLY GAME
BROOKLYN.. 0 110 0
PHILLIES.... 3 0 0 0 0,
??
, )
Pfcffcr nnd Mcvcis; ClmlmeiN nutt Burns.
ATHLETICS.. 1 1 0 '
WASHING'N.,1 0-
NATIONAL league
NEW YORK, 1st g..,1 1
UOSTON
.1 0
RIGGS BANKERS ACQUITTED OF PERJURY
WASHINGTON, May 27. Chniles C. Glover, president; WllHani
J. Flatlier, vice piealdent, nnd Henry H. Flnther, former cashier of
the Klgfts National Bony, today wcie found not guilty of charges of
ppijmy by a jury of TTic XJlstilct of Columbia Criminal Court. Tbe
Government cannot appeal the case. The juiy delibctatcd only nlw
in "tcs The defendants after shaking the hands of the .iuiors
quickly left the couit loom.
PR0II1MTI0N LEADER AND STUDENT DIE IN IOWA FIRE
0SKAL00SA, Iowa, May 27. Robcit H. Williams., busiucos
managei of State College and seetetniy of the Piohibition party, nnd
Kmiy Oakley, a ficshman, wcic killed; George Mincar and Howard
Kcllcy, students, piobabb fatally hijuiod and ptolicity damage to the
extent of $75,000 done by flic which totlny destroyed the Coflcge Hall.
ITALIAN SHIP OUT FROM NEW YORK, TORPEDOED
PABIS, May 21 The Itnllnn steamship Moravia, 2208 tons,
bound from New York to Genoa with a cat go of flour, was" torpedoed
in the Mediteunnean on Thuisday without warning. A Havas dis
patch fiom Poit Vendres today stated that two French torpedobonts
have aulved theie, bringing 30 members of the Moravia's crew.
$10,000,000 OIL COMPANY-INCORPORATED
n
DOVER, Del., May 27. The Gasoline Corpoiatlon, to acquire oil
lands and develop same nnd to re'ne, market and distribute crude oil,
petroleum and all products thereof, was incorporated here today with
a capital stock of $10,000,000. The incorporators are Scott S. Baker,
Claience J. Jacobs and Harry W. Davis, Wilmington, Del.
STATE TROOPER KILLS MURDEROUS MANTAC
POTTS VILLE, Pa., May 27. When Tioopeis Banks and Miller,
of the State Police, attempted to nnest a maniac at Duncott who had
ban leaded himself in a hut aud had terroiized the community, he
jumped upon Banks, overpoweiing him, and with a razor slashed the
of fleet &cveial times Miller came to the rescue and shot dead the
man as he was in the act of cutting the throat of Banks. The lattev
is in the hospital of this city In a ciitical condition.
MAN AND DAUGHTER HURT IN RUNAWAY
HAMMONTON, N. J., May 27. Thomas J. McMicking, 50 years
old, and his daughter Elizabeth, 10 yeais, weie injured here this
morning, the former seilously, when their hcise, becoming trightencci
at nn autotiuck, bolted around the tuiu at Tilhugle Park, upscttiug
the cairiage in which tehy weie tiding, and hurling tho occupants
to the haul load. McMickiug's left hip wa& fiactured.
15,000 Fans Crowd Park When
Initial Half of Twin
3ill Starts
CHEER FLAN TO SEND TAFT
TO EDROPK ON PEACE MISSION
Theodore Marburg Offers Suggestion
. at Leagup Meeting
WASHJN'GTQJf May 27 A suggestion
by Theodore Marburg former U p. Minis
ter to Helfflum, that former president Taft
be sent abroad at the vroper time to line
up the Alltss In favor of a league to enforce
peace, brought the delegates iheerlng to
their feet today at the League to Enforce,
peace meeting
The demonstration stopped only when
Chairman Taft arose and said he feared
hU efforts might be a burden
Interest grew at today's sessions In the
speech of the. President tonight It became
known today the President will lay down
what he believes will ba the basic princi
ples of a. world peace The fundamentals
out of which peace may come and endure
are expected, to be freely discussed by the
President during the 15 or 20 minutes he
will talk
He is. expected to Include in hts address,
tha Idea ha has expressed befor-th&t a
Continued t Vtt Voar. Cell
ua
Dm
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
PUILbll-S' IUI.L. PARK, May 27. Flf.
teen thusand spectators were on hand when
the first game of the double-header between
the Phillies nnd Brooklyn was startd to
day and tlier was every Indication that the
largest crowd ever attending a game In
this park would be on hand before the sec
ond contest started.
The park was. crowded to Its seating
capacity uurng uio worm's series but there
was no standing room where as today
Uusiness Manager She(tsllne was prepared
to pack the men and allow standing room
The bleachers were closed just as the game
sturted and the stands were filling rapidly
despite tno tnreatemng weatner
The fact that the Phillies regained first
place after having been trailing the Dodgers
for almost a m.nth brought out a crowd
that was tho most enthuslastla of the
season
Manager Moran picked Oeorge Cbalmerj
to do the whirling for the first game, wit'i
i;dclle Jiurna catching Chalmers is a
warm weather pitcher and Is Just roundlu?
Into foim Therefore. Moran believed that
it was an Ideal da- to send the big spit
bailer to the mound
Munager Hoblnson surprised the Phils
by sending Jeff Pfeffer, his star right
hander twtrler. against the locals Pfeffer
pitched on Wednesday In .St Lou!, shut
ting out the Drowns with two hits, and it
was pot believed that he would pitch before
Monday
Claude Cooper the Phillies' new out
fielder, prevented a sure home run by liv
ers, Brooklyn a centre fielder in the Hist
Inning when ha piada a spectaculaf catch
of a terrific drlvo off tbe bleacher wall in
daep centre Chaimcjw hud no further
trouble In this Inning, although Stengel was
passed.
EDWARD C. SMITH, NEW YORK, DIES ON WAY FROM FLORIDA
WASHINGTON. May 27. Edward C. Smith, of New Tork,
died today while on his piivate car the "Kllque," enroute from Flor
ida to New Yoik His car was taken off the trajn when It ajrlved
at Washington. Accompnnying Mr. Smith were his wife, his brother,
T. J. Smith, and a physician fiom Jacksonville, Fla, Cotouer Nevltt,
of Washington, viewed the body and issued a death certificate, giv
"j the cause of death as pneumonia.
$373,555 PLEDGED IN HOUR TO PEACE LEAGUE
WASHINGTON, Hoy 87. A campaign to raise $500,000 to
"any on t.ie piopoginda of the League to Enforce Pence during the
::ct lli months was Innu3uintcd today at tho closing day's session
of the league hi re. In tcsib than an hour 073,500 was pledged.
Aui us the contributors wnt Mrs,. Msry A Uuinham, of Philadelphia,
who g.ive $83 00,
DAVID H. LANE WARNS .AGAINST ROOSEVELT
r
David H. Lane, chairman of the Republican City Committee, has sounded a
vrarnlng to Roosevelt supportfia In the Pennsylvania National Convention. "Piesl
dent Wilson," Mr. Lane bald, "(si going to be a hard man to beat, for one thlng.the has
kept us out of war. Teddy has ininy good qualities, but he W much too prone to
sudden' explosions. The party this ear needs a man conservative both In thought
and action." Mr. Lane did not Mate his opinion of Justice Hughes, but epoko
enthusiastically of the fitness rs a candidate of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, of Massa-cnusetts.
AUSTRIAN AVIATORS KILL EIGHTEEN IN RAID ON BARI
LON.DON,. Max 37 Blbteeji persona were killed and a. core of other Injured
lr an air raid on Bari. ua the Italian Adriatic cot, according to a Router dUspatch
fiom Rome. Tha victims Wero !arclj women and children, the, dlsiMtch stale.
NIGHT
EXTRA
LATEST SPORTS
PJRIOB ONE CENT
Slanderer,"
cry senators
to blakslee
"Falsifier,0 They Tell Mauch
IM1ll DAMtvtnn4-n i- I
"Lobby" Hearing
HE STANDS ON "RECORD"
Believes He Has Right to Tell
the "Country What
Is Done"
WASHINGTON, May 27. A demand
on Postmaster General Burleson and
President Wilson for (he ofllclal hend
of Fourth Assistant Postmaster Gen
eral. Blakcslec was considered this
afternoon at a special meeting of lhe
Senate Postal Committee, following a
stormy open session.
Kienlna t.ritoer Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON. May 27. Face to face
with Fourth Assistant Postmaster General
lltoiistce. of Mauch Chunk, Pa , Democratlo
and Republican members of tho Senate Cdn
mlttce on Postofllces and Post Roads today
denounced tho oMlclal ns a "slanderer" and
a falsifier." UecaUse ho sent letters to
postmasters In many parts of thq coun
try. tlcclnrlm? that ''Congress has sur
rendered to tho rnllronds." nnd urged them
to protest to their Senators nnd Congress
men. Mr Dlnkesloc vvnn ordered to nppear
before the committee, and nnsvvcr charges
of having Inspired n "lobby" on Congress.
"On what do ou base the claim that
this committee, has made a complete sur
render to tho rnllroads?" naked Senator
Martlne. of New Jersey.
' On the record." ho fired back.
Mr Ululcslec then rend four of tho five
points asked by the railroad which he
claimed had been conceded.
"Your letter places every member of this
committee In a most unenviable position,"
said Senator Martlne. "R's damned un
pleasant." "RIGHT TO T"LL WHAT IS DONBl"
"Do you regard your statements as within
the grounds of honesty or deccncn?" Mr.
Oiaksleo was asked.
"I bellavo I have the right In or out of
ofdeo to tell the country what Is done."
"And to organize a lobby of postmasters?''
was askrd.
"I didn't organize a lobby. I did not
dine these men. I didn't buttonhole rnem-
bers of Congress ; I used no gum-shoe meth
ods Hverythlng t did was open and above
board." "Do ou regard It as decent to say Con
gress lias surrendered to the railroads when
every member of this committee, rteuub-.
llcan.i and Democrats alike, reported tof-'
vorably tms bill7" asked Senator Vnrda
man. of Mississippi. "You put your judg
ment against that of nil tho Senators ; you
ought to have some sense of propriety,
"You said," continued Senator Vardaman,
"that we surrendered to the railroads;
Continued on 1'nto Four. Column Three
'WORD OF WARNING' .
BY 'DAVE' MARTIN ,
EOR PARTY PEACE
Tells Penrose-McNichol Men
to Unite With Vare
Faction
URGES SMITH AS LEADER
What "Dave" Martin Says
to Penrose-McNichol Mqn
"l feel that a word of warning
should be sounded to certain Repub
lican leaders In this city."
"Party leaders must be loyal to
their patty or suffer the los3 of pub
lic confidence."
"They must not permit their bit
ter personal feelings to warp their
judgment, as was done in the recent
primaries where on order was is
sued by certain leaders and an at
tempt was made to nominate a Dem
ocrat on tho Republican ticket."
"I wish to emphasize the fact that
future success of tho Republican
party in Philadelphia depends in a
ianre degree unon the success of
Mayor Smith and his administra
tion." "All Republicans who have the in
terest of their party and their city
at heart will give them their loyal
and earnest support.'
"I propose to take my stand with
tho friends of the Mayor, to follow
i him and to support him, for I believe
in him. My friends will do .likewise."
A "word of warning" to the Penrose
McNichol leaders In Philadelphia to unite
with their factlonul enemies, the Varcs, In
a harmonious llepubllcan organ. zatlon with.
Mayor Smith ut (Is head was sounded to
day by David Martin, ex-lleglster of Will
and a political power In tho northeast
Martin Issued a formal statement In
which he declared hla alignment with the
Vares and promised his support to the
Smith administration. lie called upon
"certain Republican leaders" likewise to
line up behind the Mayor dnd took the
J'enroiio-Mc.Mchol leaders In the northeast
to task for supiKjrtlng Michael Donohoe a
Democrat, for the Jtepubllcan nom nation
for Congress In the 6th Platrict against
Peter B. Costello In the recent prima r,
The Martin statement wag the result o.f
a. conference held In Mayor Smiths- office,
last Thursday .Besides David Martin there
were present Congressman William S Vare,
Coroner William H. Knight, Jr . and the
Mayor,
Martin declared his allegiance to the
Vares In the following declaration pjo
pose to taka my stand with tbe friends p
the Mayor "
"Now that Hie primaries are over and,
all true Republicans are hoping to see i
reunited pvrty. a suix-ssfu presidential
campaign, the election of a Republican Cfuv
grew aud a, situation which will mean tit
permanent maintenance of prosperity mi
national Integrit I feel ht a word e
(euthut l' n, Lata Jwe
