THE WEATHER FORECAST.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
Fair to-day and probably to-morro
northeast to southeast winds. ,
Highest temperature yesterday, 76; lowest, SlKV'
uoittlinj wcanuci, muii aiiu jiiiukiu i t puun uil pi. 1 o.W
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 270.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, MAY 27, 1916. Copyright, 116. by . Svn Printing and Publishing Association.
PRICE T
CENTS.
SAY WAITE IS
SHAMMING TO
CHEAT CHAIR
,i'iisiH-ntor.s Scoff nt Ihsiiii
1 iiy, lo Show "Mornl
Mint" Pica Is Fake.
UKXTIST I'LAXXKI) TO
KIM. WIFK SHORTLY
Admits Ho Never Loved
Any Oho. Kvcn Parents;
Money Only Desire.
WAXTKD TO Bl'll.l)
lli'nrr n ITIMWIiVi
tlUJl h I L II L IJiUA ,
. . . I.-fl T..l .".I
JU'lllor, IMIIIS Llllier tIUC
Questions Case iry (lo
lo Jury To-night.
T ..1 l)r, Arthur W'a.ren W'aite Is a
n,or.il Idlof and therefore Is not le?.illy iformntinn nlm.it .,,.., ......... I,
r.-ri-n.lble for the murder of .lohn n.;," rmat'0nabOUtWa, COnt
nr Mrs. reck was tiic testimony
. rd.i of Dr. Morrli J4K.1rp.iti and
i 11 P.oss llefcndorf, alienists retained '
li jfhalf of the nian on trial before Jus- I
t t Sh'.irn 'n the Crinilnat Ilranch of
I fc"upr.ii. Court, t'pon their tetl-
II v 'he defendant bases his en!li.'l
l. ii" nf esaplnc the elecirli "hair, for
1 tbcm and Mls Citbarlne pec!;
- 11 witness 011 a coll.nei-.il muter his
1 .inc. I. Wsltir 15. l'eu I, rested Ills
' .ist nlch!.
Ti '-ise will so to t.i iur. by in
r imle. romet'i n; linforv'tcn h ip-
r '.i''-.'. v.ii ,;i ii' t..l,f a part of
I ."i.tilna's csrlon. will 1. Intcm.cd
"'n that the man Is sli.smmi'.lp.
" l'.talr.ts. Drs Mabjii. iiie?"ry
! .u?'. w '.I stoto tint is the rojult
ir i ti na.liin"
neii.li wlliivs ii t p'o!ed to irnl;
" !tfntti-i mv'-iciii?. Mis nam?
annouii:eil, i ti' lie I.-- sa d I, a
.ite of tiit To,iu iriio supp'k'l
.ill boo:.s i) : .-it.ital dlsenrri
.nlinorc I to aid the tuiponer Pi
rfirirltiB to dlspla-. the .'t11oi.'oi:c:'- nnd
rfrtlc', wli.ch miiilo his murder ron-
1 10
court Inctedlblo lu many
lie l.nrka llurnl lliililnc.
o . " a'l, both of the defence's alien
ln d tl.ircd. the Ucferdant is a man
a o.u'.el. wiilnnit feeling ali'l without
,io:.u balance which would deter li!m 1
i.kiimnu ami executing any cr me
lionclit might aid him in his l'c-
'! f e , tonfess'd to them that he
mi derlng his wife In anout K,rsti YunBe alsi, admitted that the
. iu I - .11 order lo obtain Mil pos- lcicphfle wire Into the llot-l Itrozt.ill
nf 11.., property Then, when lie I wnH tIip,wll ,,y nr,,fr f ,hc ,.,... ,.,,.
..ciui'eil ., 111 lion dollars, he would m3!),lncr , Pet Information "about the
1 . .tale up the Hudson and untry S(.ymur matter." The u-mmlttvc se,ed
111 fu, .vonmn. hi-intellectual enual. nMoI1,c(1 , reull7.c that perhap- the
had neve loved his vvlfv. father, comcrsntiolie of all the guest lu these
1 or b-o.hcis. Ills love fo. Mrs 1)Ijtef, ,v,.e t,e wres were bell g super
hi w.'s only s temporar1' affi.lr.
I il not regaid liis wife as Ji .s eiptal 11 ' Tz -
if .ii .utelle. t, atttcctnenrrs or
. 1,
If lie I
1 11.nl alwa . tlnongiiout his
n t ii.i t w Ii e)i lie wanted
in iiiopej i,e 100I. it If he fan
!J .1 wniuaii he got her. If a life
J " 'n wa of his ambition for
i- mi lift would end and he would
mining more of it
' marl thlee limns the alienists
' erpts from their talk with the
and for that length of time ihelr
striiind to hear evev wo d.
1 but Wa'tn was m ,f on Ihe
1 "I 11111.'' . r i..?.p?.aiii!ii it 'on
ii lie cutiii 1 01 iiilors, but unless,
ims presented at the door' to dipt I
i..i-a bore the printed name and,
s-nues . of at leaxt a full As-lst-,
" r.ct Attorney the possessors of
did lint set In. There were
he fortuim'e ones, however. I
Ul1 if
1 rotr.en. ) fill
the room again,
lev a i strained themselves try-
" erai e a little nearer. They bad
miei, because in this fast specd
c -n Just, e Shenrn permits no d-
f om Iawers and no disorder from
r 'a'Ofs
Wllr l.oaea Ills Mnllr.
ei I- jieuel had only a few iues
" us direct examination after his 1
seir-possessei client took the
I' fe begliining of the morning
men Assistant District Attor
H.O'hers aiose and the smile passed
1 'e
wns nothing suave or tender
' whv in which Mr Ilrothers 1
sfer
the cross-examination. .Mr.
H o'lle ,
whs nut to convince the Jury
' mu, o of the wicl.i dness nartated by
"s . wa. i.oi true
not true
T
tlrt day .vou called on Judge
"u diel not tell him you killed
k. did ou"" he asked.
said the defendant shortly,
w tr.ess suffered a lapse of mun-
'he first time a moment Ii.t4.i-
Sun.,
M I
Vi
e
"i.rl not remember what occurred
"" bun and the officials nt pi,, j boys had bought' new "i'lthcs and three
".'Mi rent or 0Ver at Ilollevue Hospital , Krlps In which to carry the money.
'ie in,,,!,, his first confession That ' ,:at'h ol"' liaU ,i,R" 113,1 " ll"ircut 11
" "ga'ded important by the state be-1 shampoo. Then they took tlm train
' w.ll argue that mi Insnne I f"r l'hlludelpliln,
' ""ii d have . tinfessed from the start In Philadelphia the detectives, started
W.ilte trleil to plate the bluine on a round of Ihe movie houses mil
Peck and lo exonerate hlni- hotels. In looking over tho leglMcr or tho
Keystone Hotel they saw the unme "Itlch
1 " iv have mentioned Percy peck's aril Hamilton," which they recognized
r'' suit! the whitens at last. , " In the handwriting of McMatius,
vi reineinber the letter ou wrote i They went to the room assigned to the
" iig iret Morton from Uellevue Hos-1 three, but the boys were out. Theiu
' .'isked Mr. Hrothert). After try-1 they found the money piled neatly in
epiurn sometnirig the wltneps was
""1 to answer jes or no and an
" 'd (ifrinnatlvely
'"is ie tell the truth?"
Vis She lnt,l th .,ll...
" I Hill.
and ecu were f.iklntr insnnt,,. ,
r,
' us lliisnllalr' '
' i.i not faked Insanity at any
,"' , ""'"'(1 th" "lefenelnnt, who an.
p-arrii mu. , omfortsble now.
"cent jou preparing lu HelUvue lo
s' Conffrf 4att pnpt
POTTER CALLS MAYOR'S
CHARGES 'FOUL SLANDER';
FOSDICK REPORT BARED
Police Reveal That Two Hotel Wires Were Tapped
Hint Given of Information Obtained That May Be
of Interest to Federal Government.
The wire tupping inquiry of the Thompson committee was concluded I
yesterday by the answer of Dr. Daniel C. Potter to the Mayor's charges j
and the testimony of several members of the police wire tapping squad. I
Dr. Potter characterized the Mayor' statements about the late Mgr.'
Denis J. McMahon in relation to the proposed $5,000 honorarium for
himself as "foul slander." He denied in toto the other charges. The I
policemen explained the police wire tapping ptactice.
. ... lUin VII IUI H'HJ ,.....
mayor .Mttchel a reply to Dr. Potter' testimony before the com-! -v.i5 exposed yesterda by Commissioner
mittee was the publication of the 1'osdick conildential report to Mayor of Accounts Wallsteln and Health Com
Gaynor on Dr. Potter. This report detailed n.irt.s of the tcstimonv before , m!"lol,er """oil.
Fosdick regarding the proposed ?f..000 honorarium, a ?500 check and','" ","""-"' butchers member o.
an alieged Judgment for ,800 which it was contended was bought V a rrZZrZ
Catholic pnest for ?L'00. Brooklyn. were arrested and held for
It (lovelorn) vim: i-.lo it.,. dm lih iEah I... .1 . ..t I.--.- t..-., , ..aa . ,. v. -i .
- - f,fc ....4 . 4.W.4 .ii... iiiv
'fCS " lletcoluPho"e of" ''-' ofllccs of Seymour & Seymour yi
information that might be worthy of the attention of the Federal a'ut
ties.
William J. Burns, accoi
McAdoo. found tllp nnnin nf
...
Capt. Boy-Kd named Means. A cnrtiidge order for Mexico also was
lumuicu oiuo.
ueputy l once Commissioner Lord testified that the police started procured the evlden e. In the hands nf
to tap Seymour & Seymoin's whes after a luncheon at which were (''!nnilsiouer Wallstem is l .270 w
present besides himself. Commissioner Woods. Martin Egan of the Mor-'bl11" ttlll'h he ,3'' ua'' pa''' lo ",eM'
gan & Co. staff and Junius Spencer Morgan, son of J. P. Morgan t'"B'n" b ""! al'a"u,r "roi'rietuI- fo
this luncheon it was cxnlaine.l to him that tlm M,.m, '-' ' "f !,r"-
STWO HOTEL WIRES 1VPPED,
CHIEF OF SQUAD REVEALS
The Thompson IfR.ai've roniiii tie.-
cotii'lmloil last n!(,ht 'is tM-ephone wlr.
tapplni; IrncstiKatlon. Iti fore the case
w.u wound up, howexe., I.r H. C. -ut-, a,,,,;,,., ,L.,n. .at tlta wiles of Ave'
ter. one of those accused b.v Ma.voi jlaw.vti.s vveic tapped to Ket inforniatlon
.Mitcbel In his recital of the teyphon ( '''' '" whercabouls of clients wanted
conversations tapped In connoctlon with ' tP.t1If(1 ,
th charltlrs iinpilry. presenicd hia an- apped (eleplione .Miierat;or were
swer to th" Mayor's .iitucl.s. mil lli-1 down on ordinary school slates
committee heard the details of toe. ml., e 1,1 !"!,si,"', : kelcton form, built up
, . ., sci.ip p-pcr and then ti.msferred to
w.io tiippintr practice rem nctlnc I'c- 0!V sheets on .1 tMiewrlter. the slate
teethe Scisoaut tleorse Vunge. chlif of wtit.ius and the scrap paper belriK de
t lie who tapping sittiad. who prov.'d an i--' '. 'd -a.s ,ci as the conversations
nbic mate:, aBa,nst the w.ts of the com- i lMiVpp,,,,
I-rank Mn. 1
The day's testimony develop! d the fol-
lowiric features- I
....
of Se.Rt. Yiincc it appe.ir-il tlu'i n
fojrth v.iie that of the Motel Irviiur
v.th itppod by the police l.i the ihaii
tb - c.1.0 hi nilditlon to the wires of the
lit v. William 1! I'arre.", Pi. Daniel 1;.
I'otter, nnd Ills son, Dean Cotter. Itoo
ert W. Mebberd. fornie - se,ielary of the
State Hoard of Chanties, was llv.rg at
that hotel. The Ma.vor wrote a letlii to 1
Senator Thompson ab.111 this tap ves-!
terday afternoon, to the effect that lie
did not lirovv the win
liad tuen
tiper- (
iddid
w.rc
1
vised until Tiiutsd.iv night, and
mil
th :
that no conven...t.on uvu
were taken by tho p. '.us
foiumlltrt' stiiiilslieil.
BOY ROBS MORGAN CO.;
j
: CAUGHT WITH TWU rAL5
Walked Off Willi SI 0.. 1 i :
IouihI in I'liiliiilclpliin
Willi .Mo-.! of II.
NPilll, a of jo.r. 1 stole,, from
j. ,, Mr)rii A Co. estevd,! momlriK
...,....i i im,ii .,ii.,,,i , ,.,,.rf.i..
afternoon bv Hrnest ClUgerald and
ii.,.i,.,ni,l i.r,.. riii4.ri v .l..i.vt Ives. C.11H
,i,, m,1Pnin;r Wllli-irn McMantis anil
William J. Bain, each Hi years eld, were
In Collce llcadiiuarturs In this city
charged with the theft Hut the Morgan
firm Is disposed to b- lenient with them.
For months McMiinus had been n
floor boy In the banking bouse, una of
his riutlep was to obtain every Crlday
morning from St.inle Knowles, the
cashier, a tray of pay envelopes, take
them to the ixport department and turn
them over to the manager.
YcNteirtu, Mr. Knowles mil h.iwnif
the pay .'tivelopes made up, handed the
hoy tin,.'. 10.:! L' In cisli mid told him
lo till ihe envelopes. Willie dep.uted.
Two hours later, at 'inon. several 'r
sons fr out the export dep.ntnient went
to the cashlvrs olllce to uuiulre .ibout
the unusual larilln'SK In palK off
'l'"pn sought for Willie. Not onlv
did thev mil lo llnd him bin his com-
paiiiou (loor Isiy and chum. inlutii
Josepli lialn. was inlsslng , I
Fitzgerald and Fay, vvho had worked
in the Morgan ollkes und knew the
hoys well, traced them to the Central
Kallroad of New Jersey, then In New
ark. In Newark they found that the
three lilies on the table.
The detectives counted Jfi.Giil 15. Then
they sat down to wait for the boys.
When the youngsters returned Mr.
Marius, who opened tho door, Jumped
out or tne rear wnimm in in- mkhi i
Ihe detectives r ay jiiiupeii iitirr mm.
I winl' ff et down on a skylight. Cny
went throticb, bill managed In catch
himself nnd grajibed McMaims. Fitzger
ald had colU.TTd llalu, hut n third boy,
whoso name was withheld by tbo police,
got away.
oupv. . IIMUll UV lUIlJICU it'lVIlllUllO
author!-
iding to testimony before Chief Magistrate
ii i ...
an alleged German agent and associate of
x. ... .1 IlklilL (11111 liaaulllLtT II 1
tl,IlfCll,r.
:., . I i .
v.sed m. Rlit have been listened to by
111. .nbeis of toe wile tapplm sipj.id.
It was stattd too by Serst. Yuiirp
.'III.! 11114 411 111.-. .MA. .l.-... ..I .
chief that Deputy Tollce Comm'ssloiier
l'''.i:i'.; Lord about a week ago ordered
,,,ni a,1(I M" J1U-'I R' close enovifch
b'.Uhcr Kin ell. Dr. Potter and his
hear them s-pcak so they could
i.uic.r.!'oi..ly tell whether It was the
vol. ' too Courts and V.ithcr Car
tel! that the policemen hnd heard over
the iv ire.
Di. C.ttcr .-ntered a seneial denial
of 1 .if Ma) m's charges. Crank Moss,
n.s on tlu ptevlous day, allowed Alfred
... .i-f. counsel iii me 1. airiouc prieKs
m.d by the Major, to conduct the ,
t ,
1...11.111. on, 1 iiiu inoiu was nncu to
ovciilowing with sympathizers of their
en use. wbci applauded frequently and I
w itlioiit hindrance by the committee. Dr.
Colter s examin.it'fin was largely in the'
natiire of an oration, lor he sat In the
witness chair mil .1 few minutes during
t'.ie cntlte iiioinltig.
Dr. Cotter charged that Comptroller
Crenilcrg.ist entered oltlce "pledged to
iWttoy" the charity sstem built up
b his predecessor. Cotiiplrollers (!rout ',
.ind Met;:, lu which "there was no ills
position to damn an Institution or tin
p.ople who were caring for it." The
witness seemed particularly Incented
Coiilliiiird 011 l itlh rugr
HUGHES GETS EIGHT
VtiKMUM UKLEliATES
Tlicv Arc IiistiMicloil lo Vote
Tor Him Hiilliiisiiisin
lor Hip .luslicc.
lli-i.usiiTo.s-. Vt May 16. The C.e
publican Stale convention at Montpeller
elecleil el.tht ilekgatcs to-day to the
Chicago innventlon and Instructed them
for Hughrs, The convontlon wa
large! attended and great enthusiasm
was tu.inlfesled at the mention of
Hughes's name.
The delegates elected are T. N Villi
of LMiihuiville, president of the Ameri
can Telephone Coinpan : .lolm T. Cush
Inc of St. Albans, Ci. i:. Moody of Water
Inn , lelinund H. Morse of Proctor, e.x
ilov (ieorge II. Prnii.y of Newport.
. !" 'V!:'.n
brill II. Iialiiiltt of
...... iM uoru. . onins
M. Ciinvi'H of lli'utilngiiin and (!uy W
Halle, Secretary of Stale, of Kssex
lleslutlon- adopted expressed regret
at the dlssenHlot, of nis wiibl, placed
me vcminis "uion i n lire iinnns or tne
"weak, vaclllatliiK, Inroinpetent Demo-,
criitie part' and attacked the Cutler-
wood tariff for forcing the pnyment of
a war tariff In time of peace They
t mImi ciiltclsed the "w.llchfitl iciltln."
nollrv lu Mexico n Mrh permitted United
Stale, teirltnty to be Invaded, citizens
.to ne niunieieii nun property uesponecl,
EXPECT HUGHES TO FILL BILL,
(lot. Cbllipp. Hi. iln, llfllrvra
.lust Ice Una Not Clmnarril liens,
Mii.vvvi'uei:, Muy 2C. Wisconsin dele
gates who tool: unexpected action yes
tenia In advance of the n.itloiml Ke
publicnn convenllon by declaring for
Justice Hughes "If his position on nils
tionnl Issuer is found .satisfactory " were
vehement lo.day In their assertions that
tills phraseology was no part of tin Kasl
ern plan to give Hughes n reasonable op
portunity to declare his candidacy,
"We acted on our own Initiative nnd
do not need any advice from Ihe Rust
in anywhere else," declared rjov, Phlllpp,
"Wn expect that the Kepuhllciin
platform will be adopted as the nomina
tion is made and that no one ran be a
rnndidntc who la not willing to run on
i its planKs. I am not altogether sine
, Hi,,t our action of yesterday In any way
demands a statement from Justice
Hughes, It certainly Is not any hostile
iriovn to force a declaration, for we are
with him unless he hns changed his
views on national Issues since fohif on
the Supreme bench."
SOLD DISEASED BEEF
40 YEARS; 10 SEIZED
Wholesale Kutcliei's Paid City
Inspectors 925,000 n
Venr In Bribes.
THAPPKD BY WALLS'!' KIN'
ABM Hei'innnnilS III Health
Department Suspended
by Kmersnn.
A s.vstem of bribery whereby beef
from diseased rattle has been sold for
f.l.l.l In V.... ..!. ..I... ,..... .,..
r AH III I Million m 9J,1IUU Oail cat'll, CIMI - .
ieldcd,"11" uriuiiiB inspectors nr me iicnirn
Deptrtment. Klght Ittaltli Dep.il ttneiit
'n'or' w" i- '
son. and crlmtii.il pioseculion may fo,.
. ' ,.,, ,.,',. ,m1r, , '
. ... . ... i
low, hiiiioukii uie eitj so ernir.ciii i
.rl,..fl rlK !.fl4. Ilia l.1ll..l.4
po-l.n as crook.. I
hlblted beef as aood Some or the win
are smeaied with blood, and nnBr
'prints of butchers on this literally blood
money inny help to prove the bribery, a
(rime punlsliable bv n niaxlmum tine of
15,000, maximum Impi isonmeiil for ten
.veil j. or both.
Tvtelt. lnrrHfit Issued,
The last payment, JJT.0. was. ac.-ord-iru
to Mr, Wallsteln. nude lu Momiuln's
lesiiiuranl. Twent.v-elKhth street and
Sixth iivenue, on Thursday night. Tina
was the final baiting of the tiap. Yes
terday twelve warrants for the nrrest of
butchers were obtained from Chief i
Magistrate McAdoo Ten of them were '
eerved. and the ai.-tiseil mm vvete -i -ralinied
in the Hedfonl aveir.iu poll..-,
court lu I!rookln ami held by Alaai -trnte
Dodd for eiimltmtlon lu tl
Adams stre. t court next Tbtiraday. l'ivj
of them were balled by S. May. said t"
be an uncle of Kings County .tudirc
Mitchell May, the other five b C. leh
man, a outchei.
The .1 rested' ten ale I'.ol.eit ri.utt,
Arthur Tiauf and .-amu.d I'l.iut of l!ob
ert I'luut Si Sons, Henry Ii.ui', S moil 1
liaut and Uobert l'laut, .1;,, of S. ' m dle i,g, pressure station at C5ane
II. Claut: David Kelnberg. Chllip Strnufr ! v oort street began to drop. The uravlty
and Aaiou Schick of Strauss. Schick clnclss slimved thi leakage to be Some-
Keinberg. and Herman Ittauu-chwcitf. ' wlie;e about Thlrty-foutth street on the
Tne eight suspended Inspectors of the vt side, and a wrecking crew sent to
lle.iltn Department, all velerlnarv sui-
genn. are: I'iilef Veterlnniy Inspector ,
Atire.i t.. i.iiics. .ii.nn ivt 11, .uguii
.lohnson. Cet. r I Amscher. Moirl" Mil- .
lan, William 1 Hialsted, (har.es 1.
"V" ""' '"
Lmersou also teocd the permits of:
u it "l"rl ..".-.e ...v.. i-.ii.i j
to he Involved In the bribery live In
Johnson avenue and 01, e in Hrownsvllle,
Heaped
Hlrh
llnrveaf .
'. fi.nn the
The Inspcctois s.ilar.es fi.nn the c.ty
are 11,":0 a year each. r mm the
lmte!n'i.s, for the r services in looking
the other way when a' putrid caicass
came from ihe killing sheds, tome of
them, according to Commissioner Wall
steln and his agents, were getting from
550 to 1"U0 a week. One of the butchers
Is ciuoted In an affidavit as siylng that ,
ar
1
ne ami nis irienus pan, j.'j.ihiu
In this form of graft.
beef which is undc Veil-!
Is handled b this gloup
No Western
eial inspection. Is hand.ed b tins Kiotip
of slaughter houses. What the do Is
to gather up "local stock" cattle from
New York and four adjoining Statu
and turn It Into products fo, the re
taller.s. As cheaper grades of hetf, ha
lcignii sausago and in various other
forms this meat is sold In many parts
of the city, mostly to poor pel sous. Dr.
Ilmerson. who wn.s present when ( mil
mlssloner Wallsteln told tho .story ye-tsr.
day, said It was a fact that parts
of carcasses that wete espiclally dis
isM'ed wrre cut out nt the slatunter
houses and Mild for sausage me.ii.
"There U no question about this," lie
cild "We have the evidence"
These slaughter houses have been
selling til.ouo e.-ircasM's a e,tr. ami so
far tills year have sold 30,0uu
Hero Is Commissioner Wallstein's
stoiy, supported by seven nlliilawts fnun
Inspectors who acted ah detectives.
"In February Health Ci mmlssioner
Ktnerson heard of a systc ri of corruption
of Health Department Inspeitors at the
.luhuson avenue slaughtei houses, At
his suggestion Mayor Mltchel dlrecttd
me to Investigate. 1 had the full co
operation of the Health Department.
Offered llrllie I'lrsf n,.
"The most haaardoiis p.ut was plaed
by Dr. Frederick W Schotieweg. a vctir-
Iriailan of the Health Dcpni iinent. He
I was assigned to go
first to the ao.ittolr
, nf j. ,, piaut and net as an ordinary
liippector wtllltig to listen to iinvthlng
j , " vv he Kobe, t lia It In in te I t I t
' '( XI i"lenlen! u, !!.s'!ni carcasse'
he mlKllt bear lie Had lieen tin re only
wonI,l be money in it. Kepottlng
, llie ealtb DipuCrent ..verv dav
. what he was ilmrnvorliis. Sclioiiewfg
played the part of a willing bribe taker
n,. mbl tli.it lie might us welt h.
i..it....i .n..rt..l....l. ... .u .....i i. ,
I ar .iUn hnn i ',.n ,iv.in...,i
, svstem for bribing Iln.illli Penartment
Inspectors that money was placed In
, tneir .iiociieis aim un-ii- nanus, mac
I " ,vn- "'r'""1,1:1, w that
, .L i,
money was passed In Ice boxes, n here
was a well known phrase This sort of
thing should be done only under four
cj es. 1
"Il was Dr. Pclioneweg's task to liave,
witnesses present for the sake of
l'""'
roboratlon, So he retuseii to
accept,
I ttioriec eveetit tn I'afes and repliliir.'iiits.
where ho planted witnesses, yu petit
mil wiiiiSm1 i", : Hoyie. 'a special rmin"r!
In mv offlee to nose as Dr SiViioneweu's
Voltor"' Taking ,1," n..,ne ilf CaMat.an
n.i ...iimlm the clothea of ii l.,l.or..r
Hoyle caused the butchers lo believe that
hi vvns associated with Dr. Schoneneg
In n little express business In The llrnnx.
Boyle and Schotieweg were present 'on
man' occasiotia wnen money was passed
t
Had necn (Jiilnii: On for I ran,
"Tltey go evidence that for many .vcars
inspeciois.il me iir.iiui i-epnriniept us-1
l.n.rf In n. thill nn lnwl in.nl i,i ln H..I
consumer had been getting inn and ST.
4.,f4,,-., ...... ..w ...... v..,, 44, IHC
a week from the butchers for letting It
Conlitnirri on Second Pnpr,
ELEPHANT LOOSE
Ihenks Down High FrcHssuro
System mid TNits West
Side in Fire Peril.
(.'AMPS IX HL1M) SCHOOL'
Ik'Mtiit'd After Hours of Work,
but Still Itefuses to Kuter
I'reifiht Car.
Lu,', n elephant who was the star a,c ".tdently Intended to hae an effect
paiseiifser on the Atlantic Transport "I"-"1 I'Ubliii opinion In the I'nlted Statex.
liner .Minnehaha, which nrrlved from Hulln despatches report that not only
London jesterday afternoon, mads her ''"I"" HfciJU t, hut alfo lilns Alfonso uf
entry Into .Ww- Votk by bteaklnK down 1 sl'al" nmI Possibly the Huedlf.li (iivm
the h:h prefBUie water system of the "1,-llt are nlieady feeklm; Rrounds for
West Side of the elly, teriorlnlni? 4,000 Inten entluii lu favor of peine noKotla
people In the streets, calltnic out the Th'' niesitKes hint that unlesM
police leseixes and commltlltiK but-1 ''rflilent Wllvon takes piompt action
Klarlous entry in the Biouuds of the New-
y . . I itiii Inn Ilw. IMn.ntlnM nf llm
illlnd at Tlilrlj -fouilli stieet and Ninth
avenue.
i.oey .
. ,,,,.
b- '"W"-
had been sent fioni London to
hipped to a ineniiKeiie in Michigan
At .1 o'clock, when the Alilinelrih.l
Ii.-llli4il l.. L.i.1,.1- I i.t.-M I'nniinllt
' ;
New Voik I'elitial lalltoad rd .1:
Thtt t -font til stieet and Tenth avenue.
They neer got thre. As they went up
the lUeuiiH the drew an appreciative
audience of the younfier Kenf ration.
?i
tinseed loud leiiiarli about I.ucy tin
the sensitive pachyderm became In
sulted. At Thirty-second stieet she j
bilked and stood her ground, ttumpet
ln vociferously I.tik", knowliiK Iur
my idiosyncrasies, calbd Htt innocent
bjstander, b.v name Joseph biiea, vvho
Ivld Lucy while be went Into 11 nearbv
I1.1k4.ry and eniermd with fourteen loaves
of bred
At t ti- rate of half a loaf for each
vard Kalned, Lucy was hiought to the
height yards. She took a glimpse of the
nr and lis gangplank and shuck her
bead. No New York Central for hers,
she announced, and started off for the
rennslvania station In piefeience.
There k a song that says, "a hundred
ni'n once tried 10 pull a mule from 01T
tr. ! " The same number gruboed
Lucy s leading tope and tried to pull her rr.femice tu thfl beglnnlnB of tho Kuro
t.i the track, l.uev gently pulled them 1 . , , .. , . ,
down Tenth uvenu., to Twenty-nlntli t'"'1 struggle In Secretary Lakers ad
. treei. and theie the 100 let go unaui- j dres to the league.
inousiy. i.ucy reireaieu to .imii ve-,
nue. executed u left turn and backed
up to Thirty-second street.
Hrenka Plre ll'drattt.
About 11 :3 o'clock the water gauge
t,at lo.-alltv dlscov ereil that Lucy In her
peregrination htul broken off one of the
p hvdrant.s ut Thirtieth street
U1, Ten,, aue. Tlw ,n,r, system
fr, ,,, ..., Tl.irt f.fnnnli .tree.
on the W.t Side was out of commission,
Tie i,,.,.,, ail nxed. but the pressure
IPfn t0 r(Wi Another breik had oc
curred somewhere, It Is thought, as a
result of the strain put on the entire
system by the damage done by the
elephant. Chief "Smoky Joe" Martin
drtatted squads of men to patrol the
entire length of the new subway system
below Thirty-fourth street In the hope
of locating the brvak, and eventually
It was found and fixed. It wvs 1 MS be
fore the signal was sent out that the
break had been repaired. Meanwhile.
had a serious fire happened, tlw depart- 1
nient would have been seriously handl- .
capped. The old stenmers were ordered
to respond to . very tire while the break
"aH M"K found. In order to Increase the
lir,",!'"r' " auxiliary system. (
Meanwhile Lucv, tired of ICIghth nve
rue, had returned about 11 o'clock to
Ninth avenue. There the crowd fol-
, lowed her as she backed up the avenue
I northward.
Vlalla the Blind
School.
The New Yolk Institution for the
(education of the llllnd Is in Ninth
avenue, between Thirty-third nnd Thlr-tv-fotirth
stri'ets. It has a spacious
creensward surrounded by a ten foot
brick wall. Lucy reached the instltil-
thin nt 11 o'clock, smelt the grass and'
wauled lo enter. She walked in back-.
..... . ...i.i. n.i 1
W'lll'll. Cari.Vlllg CO" He Willi nr.. i urn
she began to piny In the grass, romping
about nnd making playful charges at
the t rowd. Then somebody had an In
spiration Hill Snyder. They sent an SOS for ;
him and the head keepe.- of Central Park
came mi the run, He brought his trusty
lariat. It was mldnlcht and the light
was none loo gesvd, hut PHI managed to
catch Lucy's twinkling forefeet In the
noose She went down heavily, squeal-'
lug and trumpeting In rage, and soon
was In chains. ,
( t lS.itii A M. they managed lo get
Lucy out of the .vard and led her over
lo Thlrt -third stieet and Tenth avenue,
where her freight car still waited. t
Ihe sight of the veiiliie i.ucy oalKeil
ngaln. groan d and squealed. No blati
dislinienls or force would get her Into II. ,
"I'm going home," anuounred Snyder,
who was getting no money or fame out.
' "f ll,r l-"'"""'"' ,,p r-iUKtd a mattie.is
' ''f ,;0,!,,0f ,t,h; ?', ""I1
Lucy was bedded Tor the night Another
attempt to start her on her way In
Michigan will bo made nt 8 o'clock tips
morning.
J. J. HILL ESCAPES KNIFE.
Dr. IIbjo After I. lamination De
cides lllneaa la ,ot Serious,
'..s - .....
Sr. Vsvu, May 2.-Dr. WHIIbmi .I.
Ml,v"' "", no"'', hUrKF"" ""Chester,
Minn., summoned for consultation, nnde
ii on., hii iimoneti lor co nsiiiiaiinn. mule
, vnnili,atloti of James J Mill late to-
, Tl).mK, tha fnm,jv piiyj-lolAn. Dr.
I ' .iiiflllan. unisiunced that Me.
Hill's coiidltlon Is not .serious nnil that
no operation wouni ne necessary. nr.
.. .
illlftll..,. wl.ile.l that Intepltm.l InuiM,
r ,, 1 1IV ultirhl hlt'ectillM Is tlm r'liisn
of Mr. Mills lllneps,
, "A11 W.B" Be" ,mA "'
"l" l"v '""ess ne
' "rri,"1 XM
I has lieen up and about Ills room. "The
lamlly and Dr Mayo are great friends,
mild L. W, Mill, the son, to-night, "and
we felt we would like to have. Dr. .Mum's
advlCJ."
NO U. S. MISSION FOR BUEL0W.
II r port r Prlnce'a Contemplated
Trill Denied bv Ormanv
""rU rilln .
IlF.iit.tN. via Amiterrtam, May 26. It
Is officially denied here that Prince von
Duelow, former Imparlal Chancellar, It
about to visit the United Stales,
GERMAN EAGERNESS FOR
PEACE IS REVEALED BY
MESSAGES FROM BERLIN
Pope, Alfonso and Sweden Said to Seek Opportunity to
Intervene Wilson Urged to Act Quickly if He
Doesn't Want to Lose Honor of Being Mediator.
spfCMl l ull, hautiUh lu Tin Si x
TllK lUaL'R, May Sfl. Despatches em-
phaslzlng Germany's willingness to maku
. ..ii . . ....
Piace a,l denouncing tl.o .MIIch iih(
wickedly responsible for the continuance
of the war are pomluK thiough Holland
for publication In neutral countries. Thev
toward Intel eiitlon. the honor nf brlnK
IliK about a cr station of hostilities will
go to one or the other of these Towels.
The !ast few days hale been m.itkoJ
hi .1 e,a of peaie talk In the tler
mnri piess .mil to-day the manifold re
pot ts and rumors rtiliniiuiieil In the
story that Col. 15, M. House Is about to
visit i:uiop" aii.iln In the near future,
this time to pave the way foi substantial
peace proposals
It s no lotnj'r loniealed that Her
man' Is lead., to lend a willing ear
lo any u.di piopo.iN, irovidtd that
EUROPE'S WAR
ONE NATION, SAYS BAKER
Was II inc! to .v. May fieciet.ny ofifjirns 1.11101 and agriculture and le
War llaker furnished the most sftrrlnfr
feature of tile meet.ng of the LwiKUe to
Ilnfotce IVaie In
tiro llelaco Theatre
to-nlicht. and I'tesldent Wilson Is ex
pected to dip, ,!s the great war .11 an
addtes.s ut the league's banquet to-niur-row
night
"It has become Intolerable to the Un
man race ti,at unprovoked and aggres
sive waifare cm be brought about b.v
arr individual nation
,
was the pointed
Ueimany was not stieclflcally men-
tioned, nor were any of tho belllgtront
Cowers, but .Mr. Hiker's remark that
the war was due to the unprovoked ag
gression of one of the Cowers was In
at'rlklnE contrast to the, guarded state
ments of other .speakers lu referring to
the war.
Secretary Maker tpoke frankly of the
war In Kurope. "When the war Is over
Ii: Lurope," lie said, "the people are
golrin to demand preventive statesman
ship.''
lie said the peoplo of all the coun
tries would not tolerate the repetition of
this nightmare and he advocated that
the I'nlted States pavo the way for a
lemedy for any futuie similar occur
rence. This remedy might come, lie
suggested, by the nations of the world
treating any one aggressive, unruly na
tion just as society now treats one o(
Its members who disturbs It peace.
Mr. HfiUer'a Speech.
Secretin Hakei's fieech In part fol
lows "There Iras come a situation lit the
world In which whether we want to or
whether we do not. whether it if. good
business or just ordinary idealism, vie
are obliged to take a planetary view of
the advent of the human race.
"And so we come now to the nus-
t ton of what Is goltw to happen to the
ideal of America .f the League to Kit-
foice Ceace. Is successful In Impresslnt;
Its programme. Let me turn that atouml.
Suppose the League to I hi force Peace if
not able to l,i',iri'Hn lis programme here
In America,
"When this war Is over In Kurope the
people 1 speak not of the countries und
those In places of privilege and power,
but the people are going to demand
preventive statesmanship. There is not
going to be tolerated any longer the
i possibility of ibis nightmare
"The econoni.c forces, the Industrial
LANSING RESIGNATION
RUMOR HOTLY DENIED'
lloport Ilt't'liirt'd lo Up Part of
ii i'roiiiievumln, Sny.
Dopiii'liiienl.
State
W vsiiiM.ToX'. Maj Zd Secret.it v
Lansing attended the Cabinet meeting
to. da .ii'er having been contlned to is
liouie b.v Illness for nearly a week. Cub
llshed reports that Mr. Lansing contem
plated resigning from the Cabinet lie.
cause of differences of opinion with
Cicsldent Wilson were denounced us
, ueiinenne lauricauons ny u,e Mate ne.
, piirttnent j
"e Depailment made I lit following
statement
"This stoiy is part of a luopa.iud.i
the dellliei.ue purpose of which Is to
create .in appearunce of dissension lu
the (loverntuent which does not exlsl
"The storv was first bom last Ftiuu
ary or March when tile relations between
, . - .. .. . u.. . f.,., :
I smncwiiat strained It was sent .,,
lierlln by wireless In press despatches.
it wmm n rk.i un in trmu t i,. m ,.i.
lied countrv ami subseouenilv i,lillshe,i
"lu lh.it way the State Department
became cognliiant of the storv nnd In.
s-tructtoiis weto sent to lleilln to wnt,.h
I f I A .ml,. .1 o.,.,o
Hiuxikihlti fnnti.l mil .4,4 u.,rA ,,,..,,..,...1 .
for the story never was published In'
' J'V VI" of,",lfi. I"""!11 -
gnud.i have now taken iidvantnge of
Secretary Lansing's Illness to put out
the story again." i
As Secietary Lansing left the White
Mouse to-day lie per.son.illy denied that
lie was considering resignation.
TlilntV l.oal Snliuinrliie .m t.eriiuin.
liirit.tN, via London, May 3fl, The
Overseas News Agency iititinunccs that
the submarine which was rammed ri the
H.iltlc by the Swedish steamship Anger
miinlniid on May 23 was lu all proba
bility not Herman. The Kubmarlne sud-
denly rose to the surface lu front of the
bow or the swcaith nteamshlp olt Bvitrl'
klubben unci was rammed.
they are In keeping with the vanous
sriitemcnts made on Xo subject iif peace
tho Imperial Chancellor a.id other
responsible men.
,lllK,tri.mp of Rrn(.la, Mm ,,
this subject Is the puhllshid statement
of Arthur ton i winner, managing dlrcc-
tor " I Wen nana In llerilu. mat
(lemiany is In the position of a poker
pln.ver who has won 'all the money on the
table and uneiuently feels ilk" ipilt
tlm? the Riime, while he other players
petislttl In tiyluc to lecoup some of their
1 losses.
The postponement of the Ion heialded
I allied offensive In the wi-M, the Hlovv lint
steady progress nt Verdun, TurltHi vie
toiled and the Austrian offensive at
1 cited 11 h sliowlni? that th cauls ata
I 1 tinning In the Central t'onets' favor.
As to (.erman.v s peace conditions, it
Is still Helleved that they eompilse the
restoration of HelKium and the return to
Krance of th pi ov hires iitptured dutlns
the war, bat ptecltiilt) the cession t
Krance of Alsace-lxirralne.
The belief is Riowlnir here that the
Allies, too. ate teiidlni; toward a uradual
"letup" of their original peace condlt
tlons. In well Informed circles there
prevails the hope that the two sets of
belllKirents will be able, to meet each
other half way befote another winter
campaign must be ib'clded upon.
BEGUN BY
liKloti and le.iMi:itg and science and art-
already In an Int. mate and Intricate s.is-
.if 4.vr.1,nM,...
irid Interchange be
I tween nations, are
gums to rise as the
voice of the people In favor of some
riich expression nf the popular con
pclmce f the continent of Kurnpo as
'.a desired by the League to Knforce
Ptace.
linerlcn's I'otllluu.
v suppose I hey got up Mich a
I i-iKue. ii4i.n; nisi i.urupe listeria it-
er .inij determines to hnvo that sort nf
regulation of International relations and
we are not in it. What will then be the.
relation we bear to the rest of tho
world'.' Their intimacy without our be.
Ing In partnership with It may some day
become confuslnK to usl
"Ami If .we, now In the dominant
moral position Itr the world, decline to
Join hands with the cliclo thai Is quits
certainly destined to Im formed by the
nations of the world for the preserva
tion of peace, they will form that cir
cle and we will be on the outside of It.
"Clearly some sacrifices are entailed.
The very beginning of the law private
law by which Individuals are restrained i
from acts of violence and aggression
from one another and the peace and
order of society preserved Involves a sur
render of some pat t of the native free
dom of the Ignorant savage."
.11 r. Tnft Presides.
Kx-Pi esldent l'aft presided nt the meet
ing and Introduced Secretoty Haker. Mr.
Taft spoke at tile nfternoon session
Ills address dealt with an explanation of
why the constitutional authority of the
President and Congress to declare war
would not lie violated by the league's
plan.
other svraktr.s dur ng the afternoon
Included Oscor S, Straus, Talcott Will
iams, director of the school of Journal
ism at Columbia t'nlverslt.v, and Prof.
John II. Clink of Ihe C.itnegie Lnduw-
nient for International Ceace
President Wilson's spec, h, wli'eh w.is,
dictated to his stenograph! r to-day. In',
1 epaiatlou for delivery at the league,
will not be a long one, but persons who
ate laminar witn us contents iieclure n
will be one of the most Unportant ever
ma"L"nit -
.41. iii ir . . f .,
Mr Wilson will discuss ,-.,,( only the
prospects for the future curtailment of
war through the establishment of an In-
lei iiiuionai iiiouiiui, iiui also curiellt'
ronn.l.ons oi m i.uroji.-an w.u in ie -
cent speecnes tne tTesinetu nas iussiiaeii
an Increasing willingness lo alk iC'ecilv
nf the Huropean war.
BALKAN DRIVE NEAR,
BELIEF IN ATHENS
rAcoptioiiul Activity in Salo-
nica ramps Takm as Fore
cast of Action.
Atiik.ns, via Paris. May St. Wibln
the I, i.st few da.vs thin lias in en ex.'tp
tionnl milltaty actlvitj In the Allies'
ciinips i.t Salon!,'.!, tjen Howell, chief
of the Ilritish .stuff, and many other
otliceis, French and Kngllsh, h.ne lieen
recalled from Athens, vvheie the.v hav.
been on leave. It Is believed iee tint
these cents preiedc tlghtlng on a laiger
cale ihan has yet been nt . mp'.eil In
this theatre of war.
IWLGARS PRE PA UK.
,,,,,,,M, "P" ' r,"H U,n' U
'" Mii e.l..,,.
Pakis, May 2fl, According to n I lavas
dcMutch from Athena, iniotlng a icllnb'e
nuthorlty, .10,000 llulgailau t loops have
I, ..a,, i,.n.,4,,.,i -.-. ..... .
.
...... ...... . ,,. .. ii. iii ii,,- iu:iiw .. i
C0.1M tOtiie M.lceillinlail fl Out.
' NEW OCEAN LINK WITH SPAIN.
VIo-evv 1 ork Menntslilp loin,
puny la established,
Spmal Crti'e lefjiifiA t,i Till i .
MAiiniP, Mny 20. Thanks to the inter
vention of King Ufonso, a sieanish'P
line
l etween Xew Ymk and Vigo Is an
nccoiiilillHhed fact. A
uupiinv n.i 'ecu
promoted with a capital of f 'Jti.Oini.Oiiu
half furnished by American, half bv
Spanish capitalists The nfihes of the
company will he in Mitdrid and tin
sleaniets of Iln line will My tne Spanish
Mag,
The Spanish press Is enlhushatle In
n,- welcome lo the new line.
LAWLESS MAIL
SEIZURES MUST
STOP, SAYS U.S.
hansiiir Xnlc I It ma litis
Kadicnl l.'lir,iiv in Practice
ly British and French.
rXWAKHAXTKI) f'HKCK
TO TSK OF IIKMI SKAS
Agreed on Principle, hut
'Method Is Chic!' Cause
of Difference."
WILL NOT LOXOKK
T0LKKATK W1I0.NGS
Jfeply States Firmly What
Correspondence Shall
He rnmolcstcd."
Wisiiingto.v, May 2( The reply of
the United States to the Joint memo
randum to the Itrltlsh and French Oov
ernrnenls on the lnierf. rei. -e with th
mnlls Is an emphatic, and the Slate De
partment believes, couvincng legal ar
gument against the ptesent practices
of the Crerich and C.tl ish a nhorltles
lu their treatment of ma, Is from and
to the I'nlted States The note was
made public to-day
The Culled States i lia lacteiii-es the
wrongs done to Amincm citizens
through these practices s Intolerable,
states that It expects these practices
to cease and adds lb.it only a radical
change icstoilng to tho t'uited States
Its full rights as a neutial piwer will
satisfy this flovernmeitl.
It Is known that the fitted States
has the suppott nf Holland, Sweden and
other neutral countries In ItR protest in
the llntente. These other neutral
pun en already have protested against
wrongs which their citizens have suf
feied. snack titles' llrthmls.
The I'nlted Sta'es admits that 'h
Knteiite may se.ueh mall on belllgorcn
'vesfcls to ascertain vvhcthv cmi t.ibatvt
Is being transmitted iiudet sealed cover,
and this Covernment also admhs t li
the entente, may nitetccnt ai sea all
malls coining on' of and going tin
ports of the enemy's cons'. s which are
effectively blockaded.
lint the methods emp.nvrd bv t.ie
Ilritish and French authun is ate s,
verc! citnised. The no!, si ,'e, m.i'
these au'.hoi ;tles temove al' . is e
nine c orte.-polidence" as ve j icj
parcels and take them to 1... ,1 n i e
they ale delated for da . wcl, oi
even months, in some cases til rrep
at. hle loss.
The llrlt.sh nnd C.e, peaett.e
amounts to an unwai r.mteil n t.it'oti
of the use l. neutralf nf " , 'd
hlgbw.ij.s for the transtn .-sic i of corie-
' spondence. tile note ,s.ls
The I'nlted States cntlter ils ttui' tills
Is a violation o' the pr.ev ti.a tire i '
I nations wiiUh 'Ireat C.rlt.ni' and nr
.T,, ' H
taMIH. and maintain
ave assis, cd lo ' -
.i.., ..lA.i ...
wary of grievous Injurus In a on
lrpri,.0, n. surfered by Amcr , a citi
,HH t,,rullKll unwarranted hie. fei ence
, .:.j, ;i,e ln i, s ,P( forttl , t;
ptoiesj.
, Tru nt the nle.
i
I The 'u'.l ie
of tne I 'nite.l States no
as follows '
' Fx Kll.HWY 1 liave tile hi.nor to i
k"owl Ige e,-eipt of vol1' 1 x e e . . s
p,it of Vpill " last transit) tin ? i
ii.i'inotn'iiluin. dated Febttur.v l. If!
i.nd 1 oniniuiiic.ited In sinistiitic e n
V'ueih.i'i Ainb.ispador in Lo'iloi o
Cebr11.11 '-s. In which ate stii'ei, t
contentlors of the llrltisli a'ul K'di, a
1 !o erntnen.s in regard lo the i u i
detain ami examine pitel ami ie i
mails en unit, by "n between the I'nitfd
States and l"ii" i-
"Aftsr a ilisciispioii of the use or t a
! m ills fur tne trur-mlssion (,f ,1 1 1 "i '
a'ul ol the limitations to be ; 1..1I o,
. 1 v mlabli mall' th Joint inemoiarilinii
,f Frb, uaty I.", closes with the ivd'ow
.lg assertions .
"I. That fioin the stuidpnii
the ilnt i' v s't.it.oii .mil eve ,'u.
lilies, at il se .tne merchandise s p-pt i
in post ).i:.'i's neeils pot ami piki'
p.,! be ll.l.il otbel'Wio. .mn lue .
1 1 ' a ud ' shipped 1:1 cuv utile-' inannei
T'l.it tl' inv ml.ibilitv o' inistai
1ur.esp.1l del. 1 e .-1 .pili.l led ! tile e'ev
e 111 convention of The Hague of !!,,7
il. ic.s no: in ntiv w o nif, ," t e fight
uf ne nil. oil lioic piii-ii'.s ,, v 4 1
l oc.ll'to'l .ll'se. .ir'est ,nni ,'e ipe -I
1 1 aini'se hlibb'.i ri he waipns in
1 velnpes or letters coiiiaiiied ,i the
111.1II luc
"". TI1.1t I'll" to lie' r iigiia -ne ts
and lespeclful of B i ', o'lcspn .1.
I , ,'e' lie 111. led liu I nil eir p , , , .
I line fol tin leestni t" "e't.i , hp ' m
lilg'.l peas f'''iin selape; aim i iiits,.,it n(;
such i'oi ' espnndi in e, 1 tteip u de
imehrs a 'd w.ll instil, t i speed ft
possible ti a usiiiissioii as scin.i as tl)
slnieri'.v of ill ir cti.ii. i I." ph. ill p. i e
I n as. el I.i t i
It iu III
Is ( hiillcimcd.
, tne liovel nnieii' ( ,n
, . 1,1
Ciiiliil Stales dieies to state ma t
1,,1,-s not ciiiisulel lh.it tile pul.il union
. iinvepiion of D'Ofi iie.-eKsaiily applle.
to lie inteileiences by the Ilritish ami
Fietnll , invel liliniils with the oversea
iinnspoiiiition of mails of which tlis
iovcrmncnt of the I'nlted Stales com
plains. Furlheriiiorn tlie allied Coweis
iplieai lo have ov'l looked til,), Hilmlrsslon
the liovi'ilimeni oi llie I niteii stales
, ti,,,t post panels may lie treated as mar-
chnnilise Mlbject tn the exercise of bel
l'jterent r gills as le.ogiilzeil by Inlema
liural law
' Hut the liovernnienl of ihe Unite!
ft. iti vines not admit that such parcel
in subject to the 'exercise pf Ihe rlghls
of police supervision, visitation ap'l
eventual seizure which belongs to Del
llgerenl ns In all cargoes on the h'.jh
