THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TV ENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNINO, MAY 27, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL XXVIL, NO. 9
SEVENTY THREE PH6SNIX MEN MUSTERED IN AT DOUGLAS
nninniiiif nr
United States Insists Interference With U. S. Mails Must CeaseWMim
CI i LONGER
THIS GITT m
IN U.S. SERVICE
morons
LAWLESS ACTS
Great Britain and Fiance
Are Formally Notified
Only Radical Change in
Policy Will Be Satisfac
. tory t America
GERMANS AGGRESSORS
STILL IN THE FIGHTING
AT FORT DOUAUMONT
WHITE PAINTED
-
PROMPT ACTION
IS EXPECTED
Onerous and Vexatious
Abuses in Seizing an
Censoiinir Mails An
cited and Arguments Arc
Made to Entente Rowers
BRANDEIS NOMINATION
TO BE CONFIRMED
WASHINGTON, May 26. Vie-
torv for the administration in its
' tight to make Louis D. Rrandeis,
; Ml associate justice of the su
i premc court was regarded as as
1 nrred tonight when the senate
; agreed to vote on the nomination
; next Thursday, June 1.
Republican senators who have
i opposed Bramleis conceded tonight
' that he would be confirmed be
I ond Question.
-
! nur ami i inn
1 nl n
Re 1 HI 1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 26. The
United States, denouncing inter
ference with neutral mails has no
tified Great Britain and France
that it can no longer tolerate the
wrongs which American citizens
suffer through the "lawless prac
tice" those governments have in
dulged in, and that only 3. radi
cal change in policy, restoring the
United States to its full rights as
neutral power, will be satisfac
toi This notification is given in the
latest American communication to
the two governments, the text of
which was made public by the
state department tonight. The
time in which the change must be
effected is not specified, but the
United States expects prompt
action.
"Onerous anil vexations abuses
which have been perpetrated by the
British and French governments in
seizing and censoring mails," are re-'
cited in the communication and an
swers are mode to the arguments
contained in the reply of the entente
governments to the first American
note on the subject. It is vigorously
set forth that not only have American
commercial interests been injured but
the rights of property have been vio
lated and the rules of international
law and custom palpahnly disregard
ed. Notice is served that the Uni'ed
States soon will press claims against
the DlilMl and French governments
fur the losses which already have been
sustained. .
The note cites many cases in point
and outlines specific instances of
losses resulting from loss or delay
Of mails and continues:
"This government will be com
pelled in the near future to press
claims for full reparation upon the
FOB RELIEF OF
j Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Heavy fighting in the region of
Verdun continues, with the Germans
Still the aggressors, but according to
the latest French official communica- I
tion no new changes in positions have
taken place.
Following up their recapture of I
i Fort Douaumont, northeast of Ver- i
! dun, the Germans have striven, hut ;
ineffectually, to drive out the French !
1 from the approaches to the fort,
where they drew lines when forced i
j to vacate the fort itself.
I The attack was a strong one, but
Paris reports that it was repulsed, j
the Germans suffering heavy casual- !
ties. This was the only infantry at- I
! tack in all the Verdun region, says j
Paris, but the artillery of both sides j
. has been extremely active on all sec- i
LxOTS and especially in the region t
Avoncourt and Hill 304.
I The I'.ritish and Germane have
confined their recent fighting mainly'
ASINSTEMD
I IMBECILE
ARRANGING ANOTHER
MEXICAN CONFERENCE
1
Alienists Sworn by J)
in Behalf of New
Demist Say He Had Only
W 1 1 I
i n s a n e rvnowieugf
Riidit and Wrong
tense
Vork
ol
Republican A.
NEW YORK,
P. Leased Wire
.May 26. Alienists
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 26. Another
conference of Mexican and American
military commanders was arranged to-
WhOe arrangements for the confer
ence were being made by General Fun
ston, the state department received
today its first official information as
to the probable tenor of the new note
day. Secretary Baker announced that from General Carranza on its way hero
General Pershing, heading the Ameri
can expedition in Mexico would meet
General Gavira, Carranza commander
in Chihuahua at the latter' s request, to
work out plans for closer co-operation
in their military operations. General
Funston had approved the proposal. It
Is believed that General Gavira will go
Immediately to General Pershing's
headquarters at Namiquipu for the
conference. Some definite arrange
ment to preclude the possibility of
SWOrn bv the defense in behalf of ! clashes between Carranza and Amen-
Dr. Arthur Warren Wain- testified to- can soldiers, by keeping them apart, Is appeasi
day at his trial for the murder of! expected nere to tie one or the import
.John VL Peck, his father-in-law. that I ant results of the discussions.
the young dentist was a "moral im-i
beetle," and an "immoral monster." j
who had only an insane knowledge of i
right and wrong. The defense rested j
its case upon the testimony of the
mental experts. The alienists of the i
by special messenger. Special Agent
Bpdgers at Mexico City reported that
while he was unable to obtain' from
Carranza officials any hint as to the
contents of the communication, news
papers in the capital, close to the con
sels of the federal government were
printing statements that it would de
mand immediate withdrawal of the
American expedition.
While officials here believe the
phraseology of the note will be largely
for Mexican consumption designed to
popular indignation over the
presence of L'nited States forces in
Mexico, they hope General Carranza
General Funston. advised Secretary ; has not gone so far as to make an un
laker today that Generals Pershing . qualified demand for withdraw;,!
iirnsfciit ion will atinpnr lumnri'iiiv in
' to l.omliardmcnts and supping opera- 1 j-pin
I lions. Their have been several minor! Wa,te's wife was in the courtroom
infantry attacks and bomb throwing tllis ;lll(.rm,n ;111U liearU the
ncvpuvM. oj ooio Miivh. inn 10 luese .,.:,,.. i tmKM f,. ,..r I, ostium!
testify that he had told them he
i married her only for her money. The
prisoner himself appeared to doze
BUseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador
designate, issued a statement today de
claring the Carranza government was
advantage accrued to
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, May tl The Roc:;e
feller foundation announced late to
day that it had appropriated $1,000,-
I UW) fur war relief in Poland, Serbia.
Montenegro and Albania.
The sum appropriated Is to be ex
penib?d at the discretion of the ex
ecutive committee whenever satisfac
tory arrangements for the importation
of relief supplies can be effected.
The appropriation was made in the
hope that arrangements for trans
portatios of food with the countries
mentioned might soon be consum
mated, although assurances of the
state department of negotiations to
this end have not yet been received.
A year ago the war relief commis
sion of the foundation drew up a
tentative plan for the organization of
a .neutral commission for relief in
Poland, under which certain guaran
tees were provided by the German
and Austrian governments for the
inviolability of any food supplies im
parted into Poland through Germany
or Austria and destined for the relief
of the civil population.
It is understood that in accord
ance with the Foundation's appropria
tion, a large amount of money raised
by Polish relief agencies, would be ap
plied to the present arrangements.
TRY GUARDSMEN JUNE 1
TReoublican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX ANTONIO. Tex., May 26. No
tification was received tonight at
General Funston's headquarters that
no material
either.
I Comparative calm prevails along the
Russian front, the only fighting of
j moment being north of Lake If lad -I
ziol, where the Russians put down a
'German attempt to capture their
trenches.
' In the Caucasus region, where the
I Turks and Russians are engaged, the
situation is reported unchanged.
Eighteen persons have been killed
and a score injured in an Austrian
air raid in Italy.
Three Boats Sunk
LONDON, May 26. Lloyd's reports
'.hat fhe British steamer El Ar
gentine!, the Italian steamer Cornig
llano and the Italian ship Australia
which will sacrifice neither the self
respect nor the pride of either nation."
The ambassador also announced that
the foreign office was preparing to
present situation.
have been sunk.
According to a dispatch from Rutin
and Gavira had themselves arranged
the conferences with bis approval and
upon specific request from the Carran
za commander. The secretary said au
thorization of such a meeting lay en
tirely within General Funston's dis
cretion. Officials were not advised
whether General Carranza or General
Obregon had approved Gavira's re-qm-si
and it will probably be acted
upon nis own initiative as supreme j publish the complete text of the cor
military commander of the state of . respondent-!- with the l'nited States re
I m . li i . lii.'. 1 : . i
while a long hypothetical question i . ' m
designed to show that In- was insane
at the time he killed his wife's par
ents, was read to the alienists. The
jurymen seemed bond by the testi
mony of the experts.
lir. Morris .1. Karpas and I r. Alien
Rose Dleffendorf testified that Waite
was a moral imliecile ami declared
they had arrived at their conclusion
without consultation together. Both
admitted Waite knew- what he was!
doing when he was plotting the death
of Mrs. Peck, but they declared he I
had no moral sense. Roth asserted I
they, did not want the prisoner set !
free, and Dr.' Diefendorf said he I
Day to Which Men Had
Been Looking Forward
Filially Arrives and Finds
Local Company in Readi
ness for Oatb
PHOENIX AND MESA
COMPANIES TODAY
Company F, Crack Indian
Organization, and Com
pany D, Pride of Mesa.
Face Mustering Officers
Today Gamp in Shape
(Special to The Republican)
HEADQUARTERS FIRST ARIZO
NA INFANTRY, DOUGLAS, May 2'i.
Company A of Phoenix,, the crack
"doing everything in its power to bring company of the first regiment, is now
negotiations to a conclusion satisfac- ofliciallv a part of tne fighting forces
J t'" an" in a. 1 1 1 it 1 1 1 1
LOOK FOB FIGHT
FLEEING SID
"I
, milium miin in
inm inn1 n i nun mi
DUIMbflnniG!!! !
QDAY WITH THE ARIZONA TO AID
'should be
mss ne
asylum
the Athens correspondent
Ageusia Nationales reports
Greek cabinet has resigned.
t0 confirmation of the r
been obtained
of
that
the
the
-port has
attention of his majesty s government ti e president had ordered the trial of
anil that of the fresh republic. . . . the 116 Texas guardsmen who failed
"To submit to a Ihwiess practice of
this character would open the door
to repeated violations of international
law ty the belligerent powers on the
ground of military necessity of which
the violator Would be the sole judge
"Manifestly a neutral nation can
not permit its rights on the high
seas to b" determined by belligerents
or the exercise of those rights to be
permitted or denied arbitrarily by the
government of a warring nation. . . .
"Only a radical change in the pres
ent British and French policy, restor
ing to the United States its full
rights as S neutral power, will satisfy
thi- government."
YUAN SHI KAI TO RESIGN
to present themselves for muster
when called on for border service.
Th- court will convene here June L
The president of the court will be
Colonel Edward A. Millar of the Third
field artillery. Major Blanton Win
ship has been ordered here from
Leavenworth to act as judge advocate.
kept in
I as long as he lived.
Dr. Karpas declared that while
moral imbeciles had no moral sense,
they appeared like rational men.
He said he believed criminals
should confess their crimes because
they owed it to'society to do so.
' Do you think the fact that Waite's
great aunt was insane, away back in
lSTo, had anything to do with the
: killing of Peck'.'" he was asked.
"I don't know." was the reply. "I
I don't know what kind of a lunatic
I she was."
Dr. Dleffendorf said that when ho
i
i firs! examined Wait,-, on Stay 13. at I
mans captured an additional 660 pris- i t(u. Tomlls ,u. (ound the defendant
composing a poem on "Love." Waite
told him, he testified, he loved poetry,
but knew the names of no modern
and admitted that the
Cross Douaumont Ravine
! I1I:F:LIX, May 26. ( Via London)--
I German troops have eon tinned suc-
! Cessfully their attacks on the east bank
of the Mouse, extending their positions
to the wei t of Houaumont quarry
and crossing trie Douaumont ravine.
South of Port Douomont the French
were driven back further.. The Ger-
Republcan A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. It, May 26. Ameri
can cavalrymen pursuing the fleeing
adherents Candelario Cervantes, who
attacked an American army engineer
ing party near I.as Cmces yesterday
expected to light to engage the Mexi
cans within twenty four hours, accord
ing to unofficial reports here tonight.
Two troops of the Eleventh cavalry
ard a troop of the Thirteenth were
close behind the bandits when they
BROOMS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DoUGLAS, Ariz., May 26. Arrivals
from Sunora today brought the report
thit eight Mexican freighters enroute
from Bauqui to ill I SSOSfllo, had been
killed by Yaqui Indians and their ani
mals stolen. This was denied of
ficially, however, in Agua Prieta.
It is persistently rumored that sev
eral hundred Yaquis have concen
trated in the Moctezuma mountains
at El Tiznado, thirty miles south of
of the United States. Captain Edward
Helsley, with First and Second Lieu
tenants Hriggs and Balfour and sev
enty men were mustered into the fed
eral service today.
The men of company A had been
looking forward to the day when they
were to become a iiart of the federal
irmv. with a teeung akin Ml awe. m-.i
it was announced this morning that the
great occasion was at hand, cheers and
yells or rejoicing rent the air. The
company formed up, and with every
man carrying himself like a regular
veteran, marched to the mustering
ground. The work was slow and te
dious, but when it was over thern
was a feeling that they had assumed
a new dignity, the band was turned out.
and led the company back to camp.
j Triumphant airs were played all the
way in. and the rest of the regiment
turned out and cheered them long and
loud.
Company F of Thoenix. the crack In
dian organization commanded by Capt.
L. J. Holzworth, and First and Second
Lieutenants Smith and Shaw will be
mustered in today. Company D of
Mesa, commanded by Capt. Noble, with
First and Second Lieutenants Lee and
Pomeroy will also face the mustering
officer some time today.
Second Company Mustered
With the mustering in of company A,
the second company of the First Ari-
oiii'rs and iwelv machine guns.
Allegations in the French war office
report of .Vay 24 that the French had
retaken a part of Fort Douaumont met
with a flat denial by the German su
preme military commander.
Since Fori Douaumont was first re
ported taken on Feb. 25 it has been
the town of Moctezuma. The Indiana! .n-. imcnt is readv to flckt I'ncle
passeil through Alameda canyon sever-j are reported to be molesting no one j Sam s battles. Company L of Yuma,
al miles southeast of the village. Much ! at present, resting and awaiting tho ' commanded by Capt. Frank W. Hall,
i at l ica tion w as expressed here over arrival of more ammunition before I w'as mustered in on May 23d. It is
the killing of Cervantes, the most dan-1 taking the war path. It is rumored evident from the above dispatch from
headquarters, that the mustering in
of the companies will now proceed with
gerous of the Mexican brigade leaders
'.n chihuahua.
in Nacozari, where each day wit
nesses an accession of refugees from
(Continued on I'age Three)
poets, and admitted that the only
books hi' had were those in an old
dental library he had bought for 145.
"Life is one hollow, miserable
spell." the dentist told him. Dr. Dief-
COntinuously in German possession, it j f,.mrirf asserted.
is asS'Tted.
Plan Riga Campaign
GENEVA. May 26. (Via Paris.)
Aceordirg lo sd vices reaching Basel,
the Germans are preparing for a Strong
nival and military offensive in the
Riga region of Russia. The ports of
Dauzrg and Kocnigjburg arc said to
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. May 26. A dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph company
from Peking says that Yuan Shi Kal
hos announced his intention to resign
as soon as a suitable successor has
been chosen.
STICKS TO ONE IDEA OF EORMING
F.
PEfilBIIMPFI
T
DR. DWIGHT IS DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW HAVEN, Conn., May 26. Rev.
Dr. Timothy Dwight, former president
of Vale university died at his home
here today.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 26. The league
to F. 'force Peace, formed a year ago
in Independence Hall at Philadelphia,
with the aim of securing a lasting
world peac" at the close of the Euro
pean .var. held a meeting here today
and heard its president. William H.
Taft and other men prominent in the
country s affairs, state purposes of or
ganization and out'ine what it hope.i
lo accomplish.
Slight referenc e was made to ending
the present war. The opening declar-
Confessed German Spy Will
Sail Today To Certain Death
behind, found the gates
Information about Lincoln
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire j distance
NEW VORK, May 26. Ignacius ' cj,ISed.
Till! I 1 I in... .In I
,.. .... .... ',.-..i..J ... I was refused
i in niiiii iqi . H to sao I'M Luciano UL i .
noon tomorrow on the Anchor Line I'pon information furnished by the
steamship Cameronia. He was taken . British embassy, Lincoln was arrested
to the pier by Scotland Vard detec- i in. this city in August, 1915, and ad
tives late today, after a wild ride in an mitted being a German spy. A month
automobile through Brooklyn streets, later he was examined as to his san
across the Manhattan bridge and ity and then returned to jail. His at
through the Bowery. The car in I tempt to obtain his release on a writ
which lie was a passenger was chased of habeas corpus failed. He escaped
vainly by laxicabs carrying newspaper from custody on January 19 last and
men. j remained at liberty until February 19,
Reporters arriving at the pier, some when he was recaptured in this city.
a Hon by Mr. Taft in calling the meet
ing to order was that the league was
not urging tin administration to take
steps to stop the conflict. Some dele
gates, thongrt expressed hope that such
a move would grow out of the meeting.
The league's determination to con
fine its efforts to ward establishing per
manent peace ccurt was described D3
Mr. Taft as developing from a belief
that p. defirite purpose with limitations.
was more likely to be realized than if
the league essayed too much.
At n luncheon officers of the league
and delegates started a movement to
raise $20fl,n00 to establish branches of
the league in every state of the Cnion
and for preliminary efforts to instituc
branches abroad.
The purposes of the league, as laid
down by Mr. Taft who with President
Lcwell of Harvard had much to do
with organizing the movement are to
form a world league of the great na
tions, with power to settle disputes be
tween lis members
Hamilton Holt of New York editor
of the Independent, pointed to the
league's plan as the surest way to
ryventtiai disarmament.
"The principle-:." he said." must be
tie prtrcoiple on which the govern
ment of the United States was found
ed. When nur forefathers established
this government, the states of New
York and Virginia abolished their
separate 'nav'es. The central govern
ment guaranteed home rules and local
autotnony. The same thing could be
done between nations."
"What makes you unhappy.'" the
doctor asked Waite.
"I don't know," the defendant re
plied. "Have you had disappointments in
love?"
"No, sir: I don't believe- 1 ever
loved." Waite answered.
Not even Mrs. Horton ?"
I fear that is only a temporary
matter, doctor. I don't want to be
considered insane. I know what I
have done and 1 know that I shall be
punished for It," the witness declared
Waite told him.
Waite told the alienist he. had "a
worry," and said it referred to his
private life. The defendant told Dr.
! Dleffendorf he. wouldn't go on the
stand to testify because Mrs. Horton
would be there and he didn't want
her to lose confidence in him. and in
Awaiting Death Pablo Lopez
Has Only Praise For Villa
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA, Hex, May 26. (By
courier to El Paso) Squatting in a
the Chihuahua
Ipez, captured
his faithful follower and adoring
slave ever since.
"We were disappointed over the Co
lumbus raid. Well, all we got there
were some horses, many fullets and a
lot of hell. .
"I know, senor," said Lopez, "tnat
Tancho Villa still has plenty of friends
in the United States. Some of these
may not be Americans, but anyhow a
gringo will always sell his soul for
gold, and quien salie, when the time
(Continued on Page Three)
corner of his cell
penitentiary. Pabli
i ma . ..uu... ioua Ka.M- an .issoci.ueo "Tr Santa Ysabel affair partly comes perhaps God will send OS pott -Press
correspondent the Vlllista ex- satisfied ,,v master's desire for re- ierful friends and maybe a rain of
pianauon oi tne two culminating ; venire, but it did not succeed in saris-I .-.-irtridees
tying his other wishes. So we i '-Yes, senor, Pancho Villa is some
marched on Columbus we Invaded man. I know he Is not dead. He is
American soil. resting quietly in the hills until the
"But that makes no difference now. i time is ripe. If 1 am shot I will die
crimes of Francisco Villa's career
the SanUi Ysabel massacre and the
Columbus, N M., raid.
Coming from Lopez, the story was
Hyphen Across
Coat Of Arms
Would Mean
Ignoble End
TRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
OYSTER BAY, N. Y., May 26. Col.
Theodore Roosevelt in a written ad
dress which he sent tonight, to a
number of prominent "authors, de
clared that if "across the national
COKl of arms we draw the bar sinister
of the hyphen, this republic will hava
before it only an ignoble life and will
be even in peril of seeing that ignoble
lib- ended by ignoble death."
Colonel Roosevelt received a. com
muni Cation from the authors advising
him that at a meeting held in New
York May Jl a movement was started
to mobilize the literary resources of
the country to aid him in "these
splendid fights you are making for
Americanism."
The communication was signed by
Winston Spencer Churchill. Emerson
Hough, Owen Johnson. George Barr
i McCutcheon, Owen Winter, Lawre nce
if from Villa himself, for , I am bound for Santa Rosa (Chihua- : knowing that my great master will
hua's execution place) when I am one day come into his own and have
able to walk there. 1 would much all Mexico behind him."
prefer to die for my country in bat- j The prisoner allowed a picture of
tie. but if it is decided to kill me I himself to be taken "so" he said,
w ill die as Pancho Villa would wish . "my friends and, yes, my enemies
me to with my head erect and my also can remember me if I have to
eyes nnbpndaged and history will not die."
be able to record that Pablo Lopez A number of border papers recently
flinched on the brink of eternity." i have expressed the opinion that Lopez
The wonderful hold that Villa still ! will not be executed. General Ja
has ever the few of his men faithful cinto B. Trevino, military commander
to him, fanatical creatures who be-i of northeast Mexico, today declared
lieve that some day the wheel of for- that just as soon as Ixipez can walk
tune will turn again and their leader to the place of execution, the famous
will assume his old time power, was Santa Rosa, from which countless
evidenced m the prisoner's closing I persons have vanished to unknow n
Abbott. Irving Batchellor and others, (the first to join him and I have been
aim
Lopes was the bandit's closest hench
man, his chief lieutenant and his
prime aide and executioner In both
affairs.
Sitting in the shadow of approach
ing death, for Pablo is to he executed
just as soon a his wounds are healed
the bandit declared that in killing
eighteen Americans at Santa Ysabel
last January he only obeyed Villa's
orders.
Styling ids leader "Don Pancho"
Lopez asserted that Villa's motive
both at Santa Ysabel and Columbus
was revenge mixed with a desire to
waken his country to the danger of
"i !i intra1 domination.
"Hon Pancho" he said was convinced
that the United States was too cow
ardly to try to win Mexico by arms
and believed that it "would keep put
ting one faction against another until
we were all killed off, when our
country would fall like a ripe pear
into their eager hands." '
At times also, Lopez said, Villa
would charee Carranza with "selling
oitt to the gringoes." On such oc
casions, he said. Villa would assert
that he must try for intervention be
fore "the Americans were ready" and
while "we still had time to become a
united nation.'' ,
"We all know Pancho Villa who
did not" he said. "His exploits were
recounted nightly at every humble
fireside. He was the object of wor
ship of all who were ground under
the heel of the oppressor.
When the call came I was one of
words.
graves, he will be put to death.
May Not Be Necessary
To Muster Guardsmen In
Republican A- P- Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, May 26. Company A,
First Arizona infantry, was mustered
into the national service today, being
the second organization to be taken
in. It was stated at the camp thai
mustering the remainder of the troops
might not be necessary as. when the
president signs the army bill, the na
tional guardsmen called on border
duty will automatically be incorpor
ated in the regular army.
Sonic of the married men in the reg
iment are worried about home affairs,
having been compelled to leave homo
on short notice, without making pro
vision for their families.
It was admitted by officers of tho
regiment today that a number of mem
bers had failed to respond to the call
for duty on the border. How many
men will be in danger of prosecution
for desertion under the provisions of
the federal army bill was not stated,
although the belief was expressed that
they would be arrested and court-martialed.
