ALBUQUERQUE MOMMNG JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
Thikty-nkvextk yvn.
VOL. t '"
Ten Pages
NVADERS STILL
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Saturday, May 27, 1916.
THE WEATHER
VERDUN; STRONG
ATTACK CHECKED
French Holding Approaches to
Fort Douaumont, and In
' diet Heavy Casualties Opon
!' Foes,
RUSSIANS REPULSE
GERMANS IN EAST
THK WE.VTHEU 1 OHKCAST.
Denver, Colo, May 26. New Mex
ico: Saturday generally fair, cooler
oust portion; Sunday lair.
.Maximum temperature, S3 degrees;
minimum, 41 degrees; range, 42 de
grees; temperature at 6 p. in., 76 de
preen; southwest wind; clour.
CITY 1UXK CI.ILY1UXGS.
Yesterday
$41,609.02.
Eifihteen Persons Are
and Score Injured in Aus
trian Air Raid on Italian
Cities,
DEFIES POLICE
SINGLEHANDED
v morminr journal apiciAL LtASto MR(I
San Francisco, May 26.. Armed
with sawed-off shotgun, a. squad of
police surrounded a house In the 'Mis
sion district today where a man
sought (is a counterfeiter barricaded
himself after l:e had shot and killed
Police Sergeant John J. Moiiarity.
Moriarity was shot through the
heart as he was Arresting a man cap
tured by street car company employes
passing- counterfeit pickles.
When Moriarity fell, his assailant
fled and barricaded himself. Police
men were rushed to the scene in tiu
tomobiles and are endeavoring to oust
(he man from possession of the house.
ANOTHER PARLE! CLUB MEMBERS jLABOR TO HAVE "
BETWEEN WAR IN ACCORD ON ! MORE VOICE IN
STANDARDIZING COMING PEACE,
Ten Pages
Dally by Currier r Mall, Wo
Month, Single, Coplea, t
To Cllnih High l'citk.
Santa IV, May 26. Although snow-
1MMi.uiHtluim.i,,,! . drifts twenty feet deep still bar the
Heavy lighting m tne region Windsor trail, the firs, nariv ,o climb
Verdun continues, with the Germans. Uikff k 12 4n fopt w,
still Ihe aggressors, but according- to Lm)l,rtake th(1 ., Sun,, 0rUi.
,a m.est French of.lcla statement n;u. . , '
no new changes in positions have , "
11 (.each the top of the peak from Santa
taken place. raonni.,r luncheon Is to be served on the
Following up their recapture of . .. . .,, , . , ...
, : ... ' , .u.,, ' i- j banks of the beautiful lake in the ern-
1" 01 , l 'llllil LI ...mil, liuiwnu.il l i'l - F
dun, the Germans have striven, bu'
CHIEFS TO BE
HELD SHORTLY
General Pershing dncl General
Gavira, at Latter's Request,
to Confer About Co-operation,
CARRANZA NOTE
BELIEVED IMPERIOUS
Washington Officials, How
ever, Think Language Is
Designed Merely to Appease
Mexican Sentiment,
STREET CLOTHES
Two Thousand Women at
Convention of Federation
Agree That Modern Dresses
Need Reform,
SA1S GOMPERS
Would Deport Briton
Who Cursed U. S. Flag
1 MORNING JOURNAL RRRCIAL LIARf D WIRt,
Denver, May 26. An order for the
deportation of Harold K. ('allow, an
englishman, was received from Wash
ington today. Deportation proceed
ings were begun after fallow, in a
street speech here, cursed the. Ameri
can flag, and declared anarchy the
only remedy for social troubles. Fed
el DiMtlct Judge J. A. liicner
agreed to hear arguments today for n
writ of habeas corpus in behalf of
fallow.
EVENING GOWNS
ARE EXCEPTED
Lack of Conventional ideal
Directly Responsible for
"Freakishness," Says Chair
man of Committee,
ter of the peak, which is the source of
the Santa Fe and Nambe rivers.
DOW AND CiLBER
T
T
0
Ineffectually, to drive out the French
from the approaches to the fort,
where they drew lines when forced to
vacate the fort itself.
lYoneli Claim Repulse.
The attack was a strong one, hul
Paris reports that it was repulsed, the!
, Hermans suffering heavy casualties, j
This was the only infantry attack in i
all the Verdun region, says Paris, bull
Ihe artillery of both sides has been j
extremely active on all sectors andj
especially in the region of Avocourtj
and Hill 304. I
The British and Germans have con- J
fined their recent fighting mainly toRL(m0r That SCOtt HaS Wih
bombardments and supping opera-,
tions. There have been several minor '
infantry attacks and bomb throwing j
expeditions by both sides, but in these j
no material advantage accrued toj
fRV MORN, NCI JOURNAL tRIC.AL LBABtO W'Rtl
Washington, May 26. Another
conference of Mexican and American
military commanders was arranged
today. Secretary Maker announced
that General Pershing, heading the
American expedition in Mexico, would
meet (leneral Gavira, Carranza's
commander in Chihuahua at the lat-
ter's request, to work out plans for
j closer co-operation in their military
IRV MORNiNa JOURNAL rICIAL LRARIO WIRRI
New York, -May 20. Shall Ihe
women of America, standardize their
street dross? Two thousand women,
delegates, alterant, and visiting club
members of the thirteenth biennial
convention of the Federation of
Women's clubs answered lh, fnrogo
1 ing question in the affirmative at an
I open conference of the home econo
mics committee of the federation.
j operations., uenerai illusion nus np-j Th(, committee has spent two vears
; proved the proposal. It l believed ,n lnV0H,iKut.nB the praetlcahilty of
mat. ..enera. i.avira win go nnmciii-, thp ,,,,, an(, H rPNl,, t ,H ,iro)nr(.d
atcly to General Pershing's hcadqunr-j , lm,.0(,Hl., resolution favoring It
ters at Namiqiiipa for the conference., )t ,,,,, week wwol of (h(l ,.,.,,.
wimp uenmie arrangement to l'rl jtjon
i ,,,oe tn possioiiuy ui ciasues ue
tween Carranza and American sol-
CURR
COUNTY
either.
Russians Chock Gei-mans.
drawn From Race Is Given
Credence; Eddy County
Man's Chances Best,
Comparative calm prevails along;
the Russia n front, the only fighting J
(RIMCIAL CORR1RONORNC TO MORN.NS JOURNAL!
Ciovis, X. M., May 26. Kohert C.
nf m iment noted being norm ot i-aiUow iln,, j c (liiheit, candidates for
Xlladzol, where the Russians put J district i)Uo,.nf.y hl th(1 Kifth judicial
ture ...... i
j ground the first of the week and since
I then have been busy interview ing the
I voters in this county. l!y reason of
(lawn a Herman attempt to capune: ,,,.:,, .i.,,.,. . umimiirn
their fvnrhes-- - ' - " ' ,jntl( ully county in a vigorous man
In the, CaueamtH regi'in, where thejn(T o(h RonU(mPn arrivP( ,i.
nirKs unci ltussians are engageu, ior,
itnation Is reported unchanged
F.ighleen persons have been killed
anu a wore injure,! in an Austrian the fa,.t tnat th(, K(1(Iy nc1 Chaves j new not
riuu m naij. ; county primary has been held and the
Curry county primary coining next, on
r.ONTi''llm ,rt' tniN county will naturally bc
leome the political arena so far as the
raris May 26 A ! lavas dispatch ! district attorneyship is concerned, un-
from Athens' says it has been learned til that date, when Koosevelt county
that SO it ( 1 0 j w ill become the scene or tne coimici
until June 17, the date of the primary
in that county.
It is reported here on good authori-
dicrs, by keeping them apart, is ex
pected here to be one of the import
ant results of the discussions.
At Ciavlra's noouest.
Ccneral Funslon advised Secretary
P.aker late today that (lenerals Per
shing and (javira had themselves ar
ranged the conferences with his ap
proval and upon specific reiiuest
from the Carranza commander. The
secretary said authorization of such
a meeting lay entirely within (leneral
Funston's discretion. Officials were
not advised whether (leneral Carran
za or (leneral obregon has approved
Gavira's request, and it was believed
he probably acted upon his own in
itiative as supreme military com
mander. of tlm slate of Chihuahua'.
While arrangements for the con
ference were being made by General
Funston, the state department re
ceived today its first official informa
tion as to the probable tenor of the
Gowns for evening wear are to
bo excluded from the proposed limita
tion. Mrs. Thomas A. F.dlson, Mrs. Hob
ert J. Hurdette, Pasadena, Calif., Mrs.
Frederick Nathan, president of the
Consumers' league of this city; Dr.
Josephine. E. llaker, of the New York
City bureau of child hygiene; Dr.
Ilenjumin IJ. Andrews, of the New
York Teachers' college, and Lady
Duff Gordon, spoke in favor of the
proposed plan. I-ndy Aberdeen was
an interested auditor.
Mls Helen U Johnson, of this city,
chairman of the committee, who pre
side,) at the conference, declared that
after a study of years, she had ar
rived at the conclusion thai a stand
ardized street dress for women, on a
par with thc.t'inventionnl sack suit of
the men wovld not only make the
American women more dignified in
Workers Have Borne Burden
of War in Part; Entitled to!
Help Mold the Future, He
Says.
MILITARY FORCES
MUST BE JUSTLY USED
Soldiery Must Be Taken From
Under the Domination of
Autocracy 'and Secret Diplomacy,
II U)NMIN JOUPMAL MCI At tlB WlHIt
WitNhiiiKtun, .May I,hor hnn
HEAD OF CONVENTION
REACHES CHICAGO
fl UORNIHa JOURNAL (RRCIAL LIARIR WIRII
Chicago, May in. Charles D. Illlles,
chairman of the republican national
committee, arrived In Chicago today
and will remain until a Hit die na
tional convention of the party, June 7.
Suiidaj, June 4, Secretary Keynolds
will deliver the delegate and ultern.ite
tickets and badges to the different
national committeemen for distribu
tion. The press tickets will ho dis
tributed Monday, Juno 5,
FLOATING HOTEL
FOR DELEGATES
lr MORNIN JOURNAL RHOAL II. If V,R,
Chicago, May IMi, Arrangement
with made bv Ihe local colon, It ie. nn
home most of the burdens: growing nrriinoi.miiiu . , i... .,,.. ....
out of wnr.i in the past, with little to Uim.,i convention today to 'charter the
say in regard to the declaring of wars ,.Umshlp Theodore Koosevelt and
convert it into a float Inu hotel fur
HENCHMAN
OP
VILLA DISCUSSE
C E
F'
S MOTIVES
FOR ATROCITIES
or their conduct, and In tho peace of.
the future labor must have an In-1
creasing voice, Samuel Gompers, pres-1
Ident of the American Federation of
libor, declared Id an address here
the accommodation of delegates and
alternates. The steamer Is to be an
chored In I-ake Michigan and will
criilu.t tin, witfit 9 ii in .in. I y n ...
tonight at the first annual assemblage r,.,.,. i.t '',.., ' i
of the League to Enforce, Pcac. ; ,,.., ,,,. , ..,.,.
.v, r. womprrs outlined live princi-
pies which he declared "represent not.
only the International program for
which labor will work In the future,
but lor which labor has been con
tending through tho yearn." Thesoi
principles, ht said, are as follows;
Just I'so of Forces
"I. It must tie a program under
w hich tho military forces of the world
will be. rescued from tho dictation of
arbitrary autocracy and absolute se
cret diplomacy and dedicated to the
maintenance of a higher standard of
morula, law and justice; A program
SENDS STRONG
FHUItST DYER
MAIL SEIZURES
i
that will so safeguard the use of mil-
try power that it cannot be used by Q)n1o nrvumnt Ml-nc lcr. " 1 . VU'a" .mo ,v
liege in i ' 11 ' ,vl 1 1 i""w t ii m nniuu l naoei ana voiumuu
Pablo Lopez, Doomed to Ex
ecution When He Recovers
From Wounds, Says Master
Thought U, S, Cowardly,
WANTED TO FORCE
EARLY INTERVENTION
Pancho Charged Carranza
With "Selling Out to Grin-
goes," Says Bandit's Self
styled "Adoring .Slave."
(T MORNIM JOURNAL RtaeiAL. 1IUII WIUI
Chlhualiiia, Mexico, May 2B (by
Courier to 1C Paso, Ten., May 26.
Bquattlng In a corher ot his cell In
a corner of his cell in th Chihuahua
penitentiary, Pablo Ixipef, captured
Villa bandit, today gaVe an Aimoclatcd
Iti'sm correspondent th Villlata tt
platiation of th two culminating
crlme of Kranclsco VIlla'B career
the Hanta Ysubel massacre and the)
Columbus, X. M., raid,
Comlftn from Lopei, th tory wag
almost aa If from Villa himself, for
Lopez was tho bandit' closest hench
man, his chief lieutenant and his
prima aid and executlonur In both af
fairs. To Dl'e When He IUyovcrs.
Sitting In the shadow of approach
ing death, for Pablo Is to be executed
Just as soon aa his wounds are healed,
the bandit declared that . in killing
eighteen Americana at Hanta Ysabel
last January he only obeyed Vllla"s
oidern,
Ktyling hla leader "Don Pancho."
lpe asserted that Villas motlvn
the reactionary forces of privilege
imperialistic aggression, or dragged
like a red herring across the path of
democratic progress,
"2. it must be a program elastic
enough tv admit of those fundamental
changes that the growing life of the
world niiiiics inevitable, . Ally Intel
1 nalional arrangement (hat docs not
afford peaceful methods (if securing
ormis Kpninspnht mis tn un a uesue to
UlUUb ntpiLiieniLlilUllb l0jWukrn his country to. the danger ot
tngland and r ranee About "Kr!nsu" UomuU'n'
Tiinutvnt i uited Htatca Cowardly.
"Don Pancho," he said, "waa con
vinced that tho t'nlted Stalea was too
cowardly to try td win Mexico by arms
and believed that It "would keep pit-
Abuses,
;ff- MURNIN4 JOURNAL RRKCIAL Lt AtD WtRtl
Washington, May 2. Tho I'nlled
appearance and deportment. but!111" results that now can bo achieved
IH'MtARS TO KKINroitOIO
MACIUMiM V
from a reliable
source
HulRarians have been brought from
the Black sea coast to reinforce the
Macedonian front.
Iir.UI.IN DKMFS lOIJS
IttTTOOK JM)l.lMONT
Iterlin, May 25 (via London). Al
legation in the French war office re
part of May that the French had re
taken a part of Fort Douaumont
meets with a flat denial by the Ger
man supreme military commander.
Since Fort Douaumont was first re
ported taken on February 2.', it hasi
been' continuously in German posses
finn, it is asserted.
MORGAN OFFICE BOY
ACCUSED OF THEFT
IBV LtORNINA JOURNAL RPBCAL L.ARVO WIRRi
-New York, May -. J. I
(-o. today requested the police to
sp''irch for William McManus, an 1H-'ar-old
office boy, on a complaint
that he disappeared shortly after noon
'O'lay, taking with him $ior,15, rep
fsenting the firm's weekly payroll.
ty that K. K. Scott, the present dls
trlc attorney and candidate for re
nomination, has withdrawn, and cre
dence Is given the report on in count
of the lead of l,'-'fi3 votes which Mr.
Scott would have to overcome in or
der to win. This narrows the race
down to Dow and Gilbert. Judge V.
K. McGill, so far as is known, is still
a candidate, but his candidacy is not
taken seriously, as he received a total
of only 343 votes in Chaves and fiddy
counties and could not hope to over
come the lend now held by Dow and
Gilbert.
Just what effect Scott's withdrawal
will have on Dow and Gilbert's race is
merely a matter of conjecture. How
ever. Dow, with the big lead he al-
Cavalry ltcaclei iTcsldlo.
Presidio, Tex., May 2fi. Troop '!.,
Sixth cavalry, arrived here today di
rect from Colonia Dubbin. Mexico,
nd relieved Troop A of the Four
teenth cavalry, which had been sta
tioned here the past few months.
readv has, seems to stand the best
Morgan iHhow of winning the nomination. Gil
bert, order to come down under the
wire ahead, would have to pull the
greater percentage of the primary
vote in his favor. This it Is not be
lieved he can do. However, stranger
things than that have happened and
history may repeat itself. P.ut this is
certain: Neither Dow nor Gilbert in
tend to let up for a minute their chase
for votes until the Curry and Koose
velt county primaries are over.
Allien' Simmers Sunk.
from General Cufranza on
its way here by special messenger.
Special Agent Kodges at Mexico City
reported that, while he had been un
able to obtain from Carranza officials
any hint as to the contcnls of the
communication, newspapers in the
capital, closely censored by the fed
eral government, were printing state
ments that it would demand imme
diate withdrawal of the American ex
pedition. Not to Sacrifice) Honor.
While officials here believe the
phraseology of the note will be large
ly for Mexican consumption, designed
to appease popular over the presence
of I'nlled States forces in Mexico,
they hope General Carranza has not
gone so far as to make an unqualified
demand for withdrawal. Kllseo Ar
redondo, Mexicon ambassador desig
nate, issued a statement today declar
ing the Carranza
would reduce her dressmaking bills
by one-half. Manufacturers whom
she had consulted, Miss Johnson said,
were heartily in sympathy with the
plan.
Present-day Dress "Freakish."
Iju k of a conventional standard,
Miss Johnson said, was directly re
sponsible for what she characterized
as "the freakish and almost bizarre
dress of the American women of to
day." "Women should strive for simplic
ity and modesty in their dress." Mrs.
Kdison said. "The ever-changing
styles of today are responsible for
street dresses that not only astonish,
but horrify. The latest style, it ap
pears, calls for abbreviation of dresses
at top and bottom, In some cases be
yond the bounds of modesty."
Twentieth Century Mourning.
Mrs. Rurdetto, for years an advo
cate of dre.'s reform, who aroused a
countrywide discussion by wearing
only by successful fighting will make
little headway against war. Labor
will oppose any federation of nations
so organized that the more powerful
nations can use the machinery to
maintain the status quo against the
demands for change made In the In
terest of democracy and larger op-1
portunlly for the masi:es. j
"o. It inns, be a program under j
which the small nation, as well us the
large nation, will have n free hand In I
every Just and individual develop-1
ment; a program that will make it.
Impossible for a few strong nations!
to dictate tho policies and develop-;
i ment of the world. It must not denv '
to samm and dependent slates that I
final right of revolution that some-!
times Is the only road to Justice and
government waj white for mourning on the death
in its power toiher husband some time ago, was
"doing everything
bring negotiations to a conclusion sat-j emphal ic as Mrs. Kdison In her re
Isfactory to all parties and in a man-1 marks. She defended her defection
tier which will sacrifice neither the (from the custom of wearing black
self-respect nor the prido of either j mourning.
nation." The ambassador also an-j "Why wear black for the guest of
nounced that tho foreign office was) heaven?" Mrs. Hurdette asked. "Has
preparing to puldish the complete text , your psychic sense given you a con
of the correspondence with the I'nlt- j ception of the effect on your soul of
fled but the United .States expncln
prompt action,
"Onerous and vexatious" abuses
which have been perpetrated by tho
lifltluli ntwl Ii'r.wi.,1. it.iL,.ri.itntu In
freedom. ... .... '" "
I n, iiini cfiiHoi nig ueunai niuun
are recited In the communication and
nnawTH are made to the legal argu
ments contained In the reply of thu
entente govcrnmenta to the first
Steles, denouncing Interference with,'"1 0"'' ""'uon agaiiiHi anotner until
neutral malls has notified Great Wo are R1 kllled ,ff- our ex-
lirltiun and Franco that It can no ht""e,l country would fallltke ft ripe
longer tolerate the wrong which ; l""1"" 1,110 tn,,lr eager hands."
American citizens have suffered andj At times also, Lopes said, Villa
continue to suffer through the "law-1 would charge Curranxa with "Belllnpr
less practice" those governments havei0,lt to the grlngoes." . On such ocoa
indiilged In, and that only a radloal ' slons, he wild, Villa would ausert that
change in policy, restoring the United i he must try for intervention before
Stales to Its full rights an a neutral i "the Americans were ready," and
power, will be satisfactory. j w hile "we still hud time to become a
This notification Is given In the united nation."
latest American communication to the Waa Object of Worship,
two governments, the text of which ..Wp kn1 wlwho villa who
was made public by the state depart- ,,, not,., "m f,xpts were
ment tonlghl The time In which the ,,, , , ,
.iKiii.,1- mum i.r i-m- i.-u in imi nii-v ,- - ,.,
'I.
cd States regarding the present situation.
Women to le1
Santa Fe, May 25.-
nurchase a. site for
Ituililing.
i. Authority to
a Woman's club
at the annual
lonrin,, ,,...v. .nr.rt building was given
that the British .steamer El Argentina, meeting of the Santa Fe Woman's
Italian Iteamo r Torn fi-Hano and club. The site most favored h oppo
h" Italian ship Australia have been j site the public library of h Woman
sunk Hoard of Trado on Washington ae-
nue,
H ; t m ii i if i n in
The Day in Congress ensuing yeai
. . Miner, preside
SKNATE.
Resumed debate on rivers and har
hors appropriation bill.
Senator Ma-tine introduced resolu
tion calling on state department to in
stigate Itrltish interferences with
American mails.
S'-nator Overman Introduced a hill
t authorize erection on public land
"ere of memorial of Francis Asbury,
P'oncer Methodist , preacher.
Hei essed at r. : 2 6 to 11 a. m. Saturday.
I changes in its constitution were voted
Officers elected for tne
ar are: Mrs. Jacon ncu-
president; Mrs. 11. Z. M oi-
lnno-ti vIcb nresident: Mrs. ira i'.
Grimshsw, secretary, and Mrs. Austin
C. Jirady, treasurer. The dub was ad
dressed by Kev. !. Z. McCollongh on
behalf of tho litdpath Chautauqua ana
by Miss I.llliaa Walker on behalf
suffrage.
HorsK.
"ays snd means committee denio-
ats culled .,.,jn(r for Monday to
we up general revenue bill.
Agricultural committee favorably
reported i.obeck hill to classlfy'ani
ma' industry Inspectors salaries.
hissed District of Columbia appro
priation, bill, carrylnir 111,631.907.
Adjourned at 5:25 p. m. to 11 a.m.
of
FEW TROOPS IN ERIN
WHEN REVOLT BEGAN
,RV HOtNINi JOURNAL RRICiAL LRAflID W,RI
Dublin, May L'fi (via London, May
2fi). On Faster Monday, the day on
which the Irish rebellion ' began, the
number of available Ilritish troops In
Ireland wius only 2,555. This infor
mation was given by Major General
Cowalt, who testified today before the
royal commission, which is investi
gating the uprising.
General Friend, commander of the
Itritish forces in Ireland at the time,
admitted that the number of troops
was small, and said that until April
1st he had been responsible, for this
slate of affairs, having taken the
ground that, ho had enough men to
I meet any emergency.
i
continued,
in you n f-
Brandeis Will Win
Fight, Is Belier
Washington, May 21. Victory for
Ihe administration in its fii-ht to make
Louis D. Rrandels an associate jus
tice of the supr'nie court was regard
ed as assured tonight when the sen
ate agreed to vote on the nomination
next Thursdav, June 1.
Republican senators who have been
opposed to f.randeis' confirmation
concede tonight that he would be con
firmed beyond question.
To Take l Military Training.
Washington, May 26. The senate
military affairs committee today
agreed to take up next week the
Chamberlain universal military train
ing bill modeled on the Swiss system.
All able-bodied males between the
ages of 12 and 211 years who are citi
ni'ni or who have declared their in
tention to become citizens, would be
liable for training under the bill.
Kills Wife, llaby and .Self.
Salem, Ore., May 26 William T.
Paterson, a cigar store owner, shot
and killed his wife and baby daugh
ter today and then turned the revol
ver upon himself. He died soon aft
erward. Neighbors said Paterson
had Income mentally unbalanced ov
er worrying about his wife, who had
been 111. He was a son of W. J. Pat
erson, of San Jose, Cal., a former
member of the California legislature.
wearing certain colors?"
"Hut.". Mrs. Hurdette
t",K nM..!1 fi.ii.utiitl 1'ti' '1'
ford your drew?' "
Food, shelter and the child also
were discussed at the conference.
The health of the nation, Dr. Carol L.
Alsberg, chief of the bureau of chem
istry, departments of agriculture, said,
requires uniform food laws. Law
rence Miller, of NeW York, president
of the National Hanking association,
said the women of the country can
quickly solve the bad housing prob
lem by "seeing and smelling the
slums."
Miss Julia C. Lathrop, of Wash
ington, D. C, chief ,,f the child
ren's burea, in an address today on
"The Kducation of Mothers as a Prob
lem of Democracy," quoted statis
tics showing that in lillS about
15,000 women died In the I'nlt-
jed States from complications aris
I ing in childbirth, of which cases
at least 7,000, she said, were prevent-
aide and the rest largely preventable.
The death rate from those, causes be
tween 11,00 and la 13 bad shown a
definite Increase, fihti said, whereas
the mortality from typhoid, diph
theria, and other diseases bad de
( leased.
"Fatalism and Ignorance," the
speaker asserted, "have been re
sponsible for this maternal dentli
roll"
Mrs. Frank While, North Dakota,
chairman of the membership com
mittee, read her report, In which she
slated that the federation included
more than O.oon women's clul, with
a membership exceeding 2,500,1, 00.
It must be a program that, will
jgH'c tho masses greater influence In I
those decisions that piling nations into j
war; that Is to say, a program under .
which the powers of autocracy and
secret diplomacy cannot, over night,
rush a nation Into war before tho cit
izenship of the nation has a chanco
to express Itself,
All Classes Must Have Volii
"5. It must be program under i
which the international machinery
that is created will form a medium
through which all classes of society
can voice their Judgment and register
their demands. We must not delude
ourselves into thinking that the Inter
national problem will 1m solved en
tirely by tho establishment of an In
ternational conn along traditional
lines, pr- Kidi'd over by lawyers lo pass
Judgment upon violations of estab
lished international law. The fact Is
that the real causes of modern war
aro not so much violations of estab
lished law, as they are conflicts over
new problems and new needs that
have not yet become a part of Interna
tional law. So that any adequate In
ternational program must Include the
establishment of a system of stated
international conferences In which the
representative of such democratic
Interests as labor and business can
present and discuss, not under any
established rules of evidence but in
the spirit of Impartial examination,
those difficulties and differences that
threaten lo give rise to war."
&j . i ... i
no i it i i nil i in i id ii i ii hi , i
American note on the subject. It is
ignrously set forth thai not only
have American commercial interests
been Injured but tho rights of prop-
was the object of worshlD
Of all who were ground under the
heel of the oppressor.
"When tho call came I was one of
( tho first lo Join him und I have beeh
, nis faithful follower and adoring
i slave ever alnce.
"We were disappointed over the Co
llumbiis raid. Well, nil we got thoro
were some horses, many bullets and
a lot of hell."
Hcvciigc Partly Satisfied.
"The Santa Ysabei affair tartly
(satisfied my master's deslr for re
erty have been violated and the rules , Venge, but It did not succeed In satis
of International law and custom palp' Tying his other wlshea. Be wo march
ably disregarded. Notice iH served ed on Columbus we Invaded Amerl
tbat the United States soon will press can soil.
i'1'ilmn against the Itrltish and French j "Hut that makes no difference now.
governments for the losses which ul- j I am bound for Santa Hosa (Chihua-
rcudy have been sustained.
Ten of Note.
The text of the communication ad
dressed to tho Itrltish and French
ambassadors, to whom It was deliv
ered Wednesday, said in part:
"Department of State, Washington,
May 2 4, I Old.
"Kxcollcncy: have the honor to
acknowledge receipt of your excellen
cy's note of April .1, last, transmit
ting a memorandum dated February
15, J !,!(!, and communicated In sub
stance to the American ambassador In'
ijondon on February 28, n which aro
stated the contentions of the Itrltish
and French governments in regard to
the right to detain and examine par
cel and letter malls en route by sea
between the l ulled States and Ku
"Opo. Iteilews Di'fciiM
"After a discussion of the use of the
mails for the transmission of the
parcels and of the limitations to be
placed on "inviolable," the Joint
Mr. Gompi rs declared that Insofar I memorandum of February 15 closes
as the program of the League to F.n
force Peace represented an effort to
meet the conditions he had outlined,
It demanded the interest and careful
scrutiny of every man who had the
interests ,.f labor at heart. "It is not
for me, by word of mouth, to commit
the laboring men of America to any
particular program in International
affairs.
Since such a court or league as
contemplated appears to be the inev
itable goal toward whlrh Ihe whole
evolution of law and irovernnient is
j tending, the laboring men of thle and
with the following assertions
"1. That from the standpoint of
the right of visitation and eventual
arrest and seizure, merchandize
shipped in post parcels needs not and
shall no, he treated otherwise than
merchandise shipped in any other
manner.
" '2. Tha, the Inviolability of postal
correspondence stipulated by the
eleventh convention of The Hague of
107 does not. in any way affect Ihe
light of the allied governments to vis
it and, if occasion arise, i.rrcst and
seize merchandise hidden in
Mrs. I. L. Hlankenburg, chairman . 'luty and privilego to lift their voice
letters
the
i'on-
, Submitted
tho pro
federation her belief
project would prove loo
of the advisory committee
a report advising against
pos.,1 of establishing a
magazine. She declared
that Ihe
costly.
every olher nation will feel II heir , writ ppers envelopes or
tallied in the mall I ags.
ItcsiH-cl Iti-al l.otlcr.
"'3. That true to their engage
ments and respectful of genuine 'cor
respondence' the allied governments
will continue, for the present, on the
in counsel at every step of the plans
and propaganda, In order to make
more certain tho triumph of demo
cratic principles and methods In
whatever final form such an Interna
tional institution may take."
tlunllnumi ua l' lo.)
hua's execution place) when I am
able to walk there. I would much
prefer to die for my country 1p bat
tle, but If I, Is decided to kill me, I
will die as Pancho Villa would wish
me to die with my hpod erect and
my eyes unbandaged arid history will
not be able to record that Pablo Lopes
flinched on the brink of eternity."
Undying Faith in Villa.
The wonderful hold that Villa still
holds over the few of his men faith
ful to him, lanatical creatures who
believe that some day the wheel ot
fortune will turn again and their
leader will assume his old-time pow
er, waa evidenced in tho prisoner'
closing words.
"I know, Henor," said Iipei, "that
Pancho Villa still has plenty of
friend In the United Stales. Some of
these may not be Americans, but any
how a gringo will always sell his sou)
for gold, and 'O'Men aabe?' when tha
time comes, perhaps God will send US
powerful friends and may be a rain
of cartridges.
His "Great .Master."
"Yes, Senor, Pancho Villa Is some
man. I know he i not dead. He la
resting quietly in the hills until tho
time Is ripe. If I am shot I will die
knowing that my great master will
one day come Into his own and have
all Mexico behind him."
The prisoner allowd a picture of
himself to be taken, "so," ho said,
"my friends and, yes. niy enemies,
also, can remember nu; if I have to
die."
A number of border papers recent
ly have expressed the opinion that
! Lopez will not be executed. Gen.
Jacinto ;. Trevino, military com
mander of northeast Mexico, today
declared that Just as Boon as Lopes
can walk to the plac of execution,
the famous Banta Rosa, from which
countless persons have vanished to
unknown graves, he will be put to
death.
