OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MAY 27, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 6
One Dollar a Year
A Big Sensation will be Sprung
at the Next Trial of Herbert Doty
Gabriel Sullivan Tells the Warden of the Ohio Penitentiary That
His Evidence at the Last Trial Was False.
That He Was Forced
The Matter
On December !), I'.il.i, four or five
union painters went out to the Christ
Hospital to induce the non-union men
who were working on the job to join
the strikers. This visit terminated in a
fight, in which a scab painter, named
Shall, was killed by Gabriel Sullivan.
Herbert Doty at that time was in an
other room in another part of the
building.
On December 12, 1015, Vincent Doty,
Herbert Doty, Emery Teeters and Ed
ward Perry, all union painters, were ar
rested, taken out to the police station,
and kept incommunicado for ten days,
not even their attorney being allowed to
see tlfcm ; after which time they were
indicted for first-decree murder hv. the I
., .- -Granlil Jtirv. two"" "members "of 'wlnclTI
were ex-scab boss painters.
On January 4, lOlC, in order to cele
brate the indictment of the union paint
ers, a banquet was given and paid for
by some one at .Mecklenburg's saloon.
The members of the Grand Jury, Judge
Geoghcgan and Prosecutor John V.
Campbell were present, and the latter
made a speech, in which he said: "If
1 fail to obtain conviction of the men
who arc guilty, out of their own mouths,
for the Christ Hospital murder before
a jury, 1 will devote the rest of my time
in office to putting these men in the
penitentiary, where they belong."
In February he rushed Vincent Doty
to trial for an old offense, and the jury
disagreed.
lie immediately put Herbert Doty on
trial before Judge Cosgrave, and while
that case was before the court rushed
Vincent Doty up to be tried before
Judge May on the same old offense,
where he was convicted.
The trial of the two cases at the same
time and the conviction of Vincent Doty
for an old offense had no effect upon
the jury who were trying Herbert Doty,
as they failed to agree.
Prosecutor Campbell appealed to the
Supreme Court for an opinion upon
Judge Cosgrave's ruling.
Judge Cosgrave holding that he could
not convict Herbert Doty of first-degree
murder until he had established
conspiracy and premeditation.
1 he Supreme Court upheld Campbell,
mil Herbert Dotv is to be brought to
rial on June (ith
The point upon which the Supreme
t
Court decided ought never to have been
brought into this case, as there was no
conspiracy, and Sullivan so repeatedly
.stated; but in order to save himself
from the electric chair, and upon the
advice of those who brought powerful
infiuence to bear, he testified that there
was a conspiracy.
Sullivan recently eoiifesscd to the
Warden of the Ohio Penitentiary
that his testimony at the I list trial
was false, and that lie was compelled
to testify as lie did.
The four union painters have been in
jail since December 12, l'Jl.l, kept in
separate cells and refused the benefit of
bail.
Prosecutor Campbell announces that
he intends to try Herbert Doty on June
(i; Emery Teeters, June 12; Edward
Perry, June 10, and Vincent Doty, June
20.
There arc others charged with
murder whose crimes occurred long be
for the killing of Shall, and they have
not been brought to trial, up to this time.
This looks like John V. Campbell made
good on his saloon speech, and it also
shows that it is up to Union Labor to
sec that this gentleman is defeated at
the polls next November.
to Testify as He Did By Powerful Influences Which He Could Not Resist at That Time.
Has Been Investigated and Verified. The Story When Unfolded at the Trial Will
Astound Every Man Who Toils for a Living in Hamilton County.
Union
One of the greatest sensations ever developed in the trial of any criminal case, will be
brought out when Gabriel Sullivan takes the stand in the next trial of Herbert Doty.
It is said that the present warden-of the Ohio Penitentiary, verv. recently had Sullivan "t I Trades .CounciL After, discussion, the
-..-.-y . -r --. .. . f., ..i ';-- -- - ----Vifmahei'w.ls''.erert:e-drtothB?anf,:dT
I before him and that Sullivan
The warden was dumbfounded and asked Sullivan if his statement that he testified false-
ly was true and Sullivan replied, "Yes, that he regretted his testimony and would tell the truth."
It will be remembered that Sullivan testified that "he went to Christ Hospital to get the
T scabs."
1 This was a lie.
T Powerful influences were at work to get Sullivan to make that statement, but he says he
cannot be used the same way at the next trial and that an unfair advantage was taken of him. X
A decided sensation will be sprung on the subtle influence used to get Sullivan to testify
ias he did.
The next trial will show who got Sullivan to testify, as he is tired of being double crossed.
BUILDING PERMITS
Residence, St. James and North Wind-
ser streets. Owner, Wm. L. Payne, sec-
rctary Masonic Employment Bureau,
Johnston Building.
Residence, Hvdc Park. Owner, U. W.
Calkins, 2!)2,") Hackberry street.
Bandstand, Erie avenue, between Mich-
igan avenue and Edwards road. Chas.
V. Ilornberger. director of public serv-
ice. Parke S. Johnson, secretary.
Residence. Wluttier street. Architects.
Stewart & Stewart, Bell Building. Own-
cr, Chas. A. Aills, 420 New street,
Residence, Ault Park road. Owi
McLcnna Bros., Pickering Building.
partnicnt building, Melrose avenue,
South of Locust street. Owner, M. V.
Cooper, Union Trust Building; $11,000.!
Three residences," Kendall avenue, i
Hyde Park. Owner, M. Y. Cooper, Un
ion Trust Building; $40,000.
MIXKKS IX COXVKXTIOX.
Pittsburg. Five hundred delegates,
representing ,"0,000 bituminous coal min
ers in District No. 5, United Mine
Workers of America, assembled here to
day to thresh out the differences which
have closed down all the mines in the
district as the result of dissatisfaction
with the recently signed scale. The men
hold that because of an advance of 5
per cent in rents and :i per cent in pow
der they cannot make as much money
as under the old plan.
OAIXS IX HAST lilVKKI'OOfi.
East Liverpool, O. Hodcarricrs' Un
ion has increased wages from 114 cents
to :(7J4 cents without a strike.
After a one week's strike. Carpenters'
Union has raised its scale from $4 to
$4.50 for ail eight-hour day, to take
effect July 1.
h 4 - M - M
The Last Straw
Men, Read
said he did not tell the truth at the
MOW liAXSIXfi I'XIOXS.
Lansing, Mich. As a result of a "la
r lorwarci campaign uie iouowuig or-
uamzations Have liecn recently tormei
,n tlus c"': Machinists, cliaulieurs and
K-iiage men, p.umcrs ami paper iiaiig-
ers- pinmuers and steam utters, isiiiul-
'"K ues v,ouncii. women s union
L" el League, Junior 1 rades union,
lathers and plasterers,
l ls heheved that the State-wide cani-
!'"" '"' i.'i"" "" " pc u
tion for an anti-injunction law, to he
voted on this fall by the people, will re
sult in securing twice the required num
ber. The Detroit federation of laboi
inaugurated this movement.
STATU I'XIOXISTS MKKT.
Beaver Palls, Pa. At the convention
of the State Federation of labor it was
reported that during the past year 100
organizations have joined the State body.
President Maurer and Secretary-Treasurer
Qiiinu were re-elected. Harrisburg
was selected as the next convention city.
While crossing the street, after leav
ing the convention hall, Secretary Leon
ard Kraft of the Philadelphia Building
Trades Council was run down by an
automobile, lie was taken to a hos
pital and his condition is most serious.
(JAIXS IX SCIIHXKCTAOV.
Schnectady, N. V. After a four-day's
strike Painters' union secured a three
years' agreement and raised wages from
48 to .")() cents an hour.
Electrical Workers' union No. 140 has
secured a three years' agreement. Dur
ing the first year wages will be increased
from 45 to SO cents an Hour. 1 his 4-a-
j day rate will be increased to $4.25 during
i the last two years.
- M - f 1
This!
last trial
OKJ-'ICK WOltKKHS Oltfi.VXIZIXG,
Boston.-Thc Stenographers. Type -
writers, Bookkeepers and Assistants' As -
sociatiou is interesting office workers iniof ,a float to the Labor 1
the value of trade unionism, and has al.ul et .'" - ck.
issued a statement which savs, in part: , Hoats wl" bc Joncs- ll
"A minimum wage is not beyond our
expectations. We mus t protect our
workers from injustice and the 'sweat
shop' wage.
"In some offices, particularly in the
large factories or corporations, there
is to bc found that 'office manager'
whose duty it is to extract every bit of
energy out of the workers, lie is no
less a slave-driver than those which
Abraham Lincoln abolished for us dur
ing the civil war, and in our organiza
tion we stand for the Lincoln principles.
This kind of overlordship we most cer
tainly object to, but to intelligent direc
tion we are amenable.
"Office etiquette is a new term to
some poeplc, but it is a term which
means much. Woman should be able to
command respectful language and ac
tions from her employer.
"If we are to give full and useful lives
to the community we must expect due
consideration of our time and strength."
TWO-IMiATOOX I'liAX KAVOItKD.
San Francisco. The Downtown asso
ciation, composed of business men, has
unanimously declared in favor of motor
izing the fire department, which will
make possible the inauguration of a two
platoon system and a 12-hour day for
firemen.
1'IiU.MItlOlCS MAKK (JAIXS.
llamilton, Ohio, Employing plumbers
bnve simied a two years' contract with
Plumbers' union No. 10S. Better work-
1 ing conditions are agreed to.
BUILDING TRADES COUNCIL
Holds Itegulnr Meeting Application
of tin- Klevator Constructors for
Affiliation Keferred to Hoard of
Business Agents.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order with
President Jos. A. Cullen in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Numerous communications were read
and acted upon in the regular course of
business.
One from the Elevator Constructors
requesting affiliation with the Building
Trades .Councils After.liscussion, the ,
Business Acents.
The Labor Day Committee submitted
the following report which are the
minutes of the Labor Day Committee:
Cincinnati, Ohio, May 13, 1U10.
The regular meeting of the Labor
Day Parade and Outing Committee was
called to order at the regular hour with
President Thos. Mugavin in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were approved as read.
Delegates from both bodies reported
that the minutes and rules of the pre
vious meeting had been approved.
The Park Committee reported pro
gres. Music Committee reported that they
had seen the business agent of the mu
sicians' union, and he stated that the
ruling that no union be allowed more
than fifteen men and a leader in the
Labor Day parade, was satisfactory to
their union.
A motion was adopted that any union
1 !. cx',c V u,' "" T'
1 " C; 'X 'Z
Jl (l IIU1U IU ..... Ulll'ui .... w......
Committee on
"ishcr and Nord-
A motion was adopted that the secre
tary send a communication to all affil
iated unions asking them to participate
in the Labor Day parade and outing,
and also call their attention to the fact
that floats will be allowed in the parade
this year, but must receive the O. K. of
the committee in charge.
There being no further business the
meeting adjourned to meet Saturday,
May 2, 11)10, at :i p. m., at Twelfth and
Walnut streets.
Wm. Prout, Secretary.
The report of Business Agent Hock
was read and adopted. All trades re
ported business good.
There being no further business be
fore the Council, it adjourned to next
Thursday night.
MITTENDORF FOR
COMMISSIONER
A. J. Mitteudorf, candidate for County
Commissioner, is one of the best-known
citizens in Evanston. Mr. Mitteudorf is
now a member of the Board of Educa
tion and chairman of the Supplies Com
mittee, where he has watched the in
terests of the citizens of Cincinnati by
holding the expenses down.
Mr. Mitteudorf is with the firm of
Titus & Martin, wholesale grocers. He
is also a charter member and a leader in
the Evanston Welfare Association, as
well as the Federated Improvement As
sociation. Mr. Mitteudorf has had little
to do with organized labor, but he says
that he will do what he can to advance
their interests if elected.
H-.J
