The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, MAY 27, 1916
NUMBER 34
I
L
kv
EVEN THE G. 0.
IT
Great Prosperity Has Come to
the United States Under a
Democratic Administration
AND IT DID NOT COME
THROUGH THE WAR
It Is Conclusively Shown that But 5
Per Cent of the Total Industrial and
Commercial Activity Comes as the
Result of the Trade In War Muni
tions, ar.d the Remainder as the Re.
rult of Needed and Wi6e Democratic
Legislation Which Has Disposed of
Special Privilege and Protected the
Worklngmen and producers from
Rapacity
It Is admitted frankly by everyone
that great prosperity has come to the
United States. Even the opposition
party, seeking to Le restored to' power,
admits that. The only objections that
the Republicans raise to the present
prosperity are, first, that onlyuRepub
llcan administrations are supposed to
create prosperity; second, that pros
perity is not attributable to the Demo
cratic administration, anyway; third,
that while the country is admittedly
piosperous, it will not 'ast.
"It 1b all based en munitions ofi
war," the Republican critics of rros
perlty say, "and wnen the war is over
It will go Hooey."
What are the facts'
Ratio of War Business Smalt
The official figures of the depart
ment of commerce shojy that the coun-
CROWD
MS
try's so-called "war business" does not ,nt0 the openj fl the,r ,ungfj fu of
exceed 5 per cent bf its total industrial ' pure ar nn( reay ,lve
and commercial activity. The United! And now there ,B one beautu,
States Steel corporation handles no'breath,ng 6pot wbere the a,r ,g coo,
"war business" and yet It is now doing ' d amUBement ,s to be foundi and
a recoru-DreaK.UH uuB,ueBS.
tor tne tniru montn in succession
me Biee! corporauoa db repunsu
new high record in unfilled orders.
The tonnage as of April 30, 1916, was
9.829,551 tons, an increase of 498,550
tons over the business booked at the
end of March. The phenomenal show-
v ...... ..
'-" "
JU& 1U1 1 CViCUl UiUULUD iUUILttlCO AJVV
merely the prosperity of the company
itself and the steady employment of
thousands of men engaged In the steel
plants, but also tells the story of new
bridges being built, new rails being
laid, and new steel buildings con
structed in various parts of the coun
try. In all sections there has been an
increase in building operations which
is reflected in the report of the Bteel
corporation.
South American Trade
In
the period of nine months therark for everyone's pleasure.
4.ln nt iUr. ITnUJ Cn.nn wit), Oni.ll. I
w.-uv v. ii-c uuhcu owicn "uu uvuiu,
America has more than doubled. Es, he rltv council in refusinc to nass an
ju-e uiy iouuiu iu itiuuni, iu inus uu
iuiiD iu ovum u":in.u m mi- uiuc
months period increased from $62,000,-'town
000 to $129,000,000. This was due
largely to the supplanting of Euro-
pean goods with American goods, but
, it was made po'ssible solely through
the better understanding brought
sx, about by the- present Democratic ad-'g0
ministration In Washington.
Bankers throughout the country
fiankly admitted that the leadership (trary ofe both t0 tne poor and rlch Edg one Qf the bMt.
of Secretary McAdoo of the trea.ury ke the Mine IrlvJIegeilf To the east d most , me , tne
department saved the financial Bitua-.of the ainusement8 wll, be found Tnlrd legislative district, is meeting
t on for the United Sta - after the tabje8 and beDCDe8 scattercd about un. remarhable gUccess in his can
European war began, and it was as a der tbe bg elm and walnut tree8f dBirlct fQr he nomln.
result of that same eadership thatiWhere plcnlc parUeBi wlth their baBket on repreBentatIve. The reason
the Pan-American Scientific Confer- ,uncheo8( can come and make merry that he ,B meetlng wlln BUch succe88
JZAZJ? ll a"d the "ark management assists , that he lB the rlRht man aIter the
. .utt....o. uu.c.tm.c, c ucu iu
Washington, opening the avenues of
laigcr trade and better understand
Ing between tne countries of North
.l C...I. ImA.I.. T.- ..
""" uuluu "jw. "uu me icj- a6Benible, the children play on the
manency of the trade was assured byiVell mowed grounds and be In no
the visit of an American commission,'
headed oy secretary McAdoo, to
South America.
Reaches All Industries
The trade and financial Journals misguided individuals which unfortu- tive of whom every citizen of St. Jo
tear testimony to the fact that pros- nately has happened to the best of Beph, irrespective of party, will be
pciity has permeated every industry places. This year Mr, Ingersoll has pr0ud.
In the United States. The banking employed a large number of special
nnd currency law written upon tho
statute books by tbc Democratic ad-
.ministration protects the country Jn
'the future against financial disturb-
auce. The tariff commission bill,
which has tbc support of President
Wllron and tbe Democratic party, will
prevent any future disturbance from has determined tbnt he wants only Hney w&en that gentleman is re
tariff agjtation, giving tbe nation a the best of people to visit his amuse- 'eased from tho charge of bringing
permanent tariff policy.
Laws regulating the large corpora-
tlons of the country are now upon an
established and well-understood basis
Tbe federal trade commission, which'
has been eo generally approved by
business men, has recommended an
amendment to the anti-trust laws to
permit co-operation among American
manufacturers for the lorelcn trmlr. I
so that they may better compete with'. The candidacy of Phillip 'McCollum for lieutenant governor
foreign combinations, and under the ls meeting with most flattering recognition by the press and Dem
Democratlc administration nothing ocracy oi Missouri. His nomination would be an honor to that
has been left undone to Insure the Par.t of tne state which is seldom represented on the state ticket,
welfare of business men, while jus- an" would be welcomed with enthusiastic approbation by the
tice has been done to the working Democrats of Northwest Missouri, and add great strength to the
people. I Democratic ticket.
Prosperity to Be Permanent . McMcCollum is a native born Mjssourian and has been an
Not only is the present prosperity active antl progressive Democrat all his life, and has always taken
permanent, but it has been made per- Personal and untiring part in the Democratic campaigns of
manent for the first time in the his- M,ssun' . .
tory of the country. For the first , . ,e " represented his-district two terms in the Missouri
time it is found to rest, not upon sPe-l vgIsl.at.ure' hav,n8 overcomelarge Republican majority in his
clal privilege, which might be shifted!
as new political rowers cained on
trol, but upon the firm foundation of
American genius, initiative and un
flagging industry.
It is true that America will be called
upon for as much labor and material
for the reconstruction process in Eu
rope as will provide an equivalent in
value to "war munitions," but if the
present safe and constructive policies
are followed. If there is no upheaval
following a political change, the Unit
ed States will increase her phenom
enal domestic business, and at the
same time retain the lead she has
gained in South America and the mar
kets of the world,
PRETTY LAKE CONTRARY
Manager Ingersoll Will This Year
Give Patrons a Greater Season
Than Ever
Spring was a long time in deciding
to come to St. Joseph nnd its vicinity,
and determine not to wander, but it
is here, with its languorous' lazy
spring fever attendants, to stay, and
to assist summer in Its debut. With
spring's coming, she brought out the
flower; grass and leaved the trees
and above everything else made it pos
sible for the wearied housed in ones
to leave the stove anil wnniler far nut
wtti sijui its wwjh iuv ifucu oi evm
-ionS, JObeph citl2en. Lake Contrary
tHu gpot Js wlthln the reach of evpry
fParU. Gel on tne Btreet car and run
down ,0 Lake Contrary and 6e6 0T
youreclf. Kc-A. attractions have been
ndded ,0 the ol( standard ones and
i,ushfishIng ls good.
. , . , , , ,
Lke Contrary park again Is under
narlc T.nt on thp BtrPPt mr nn.1 run
the personal and direct supervision of
Mr. L. F. Ingerfoll, who has made
the park what It Is St. Joseph's ideal
watering and amusement spot. Last
season, due to the extreme cold and
.wet weather, the park had ver little
I patronage, consequently both the
1 management and concessionaires lost
heavily financially. But the loss did
not phaEe Mr. Ingersoll for this sea-
son he has taken a new hold and. hav-
ing been In the East, secured new at-
tractions which he will bring to the
... -
civ.'Igc to tee extreme stinrmes oi
appropriation lor nana concerts up
this summer, both Mr. Ingersoll
and Mr. john Van Brunt, general man-
nger of the Btreet railway, have dug
deep down in their pockets and will
'engage a band to play dally at the
park free of charge to all who will
there and listen to the music,
Another factor which must be taken
lnto ccnBMeration Is this: Lake Con-
tnem Wth their luncheop by furnish-
,DRi ue c, cbargei all tbc ,ce water
wanted for lemonades and other cool- do thlngs-and do them well. What
ing beverages. Whole families can v. i..i,., v, .., it n
. . ...
danger.
The management also this year has
taken a new stand in regard to the
rowdyism and insulting tactics of
police to combat this unfortunate evil
arid Intends at the first opportunity to
make a lasting example of the party In
court who commits indiscretions while
in the park. Mashers caught annoy-
Ing any of his guests will receive
brusque treatment, as Mr. Ingersoll
ment park.
And how much amusement "do
you
want more than the following?: The
merry-go-iound, candy wheel, figure 8,
ye olde mill, danoing, shoot tbe chutes.
laughing gallery, postal otudlo, shoot-
PHILLIP MXOLLUM
if r n , ,,
He ,s drably known all
iiBfwP WBBBhbbk? v ''PM
lljHl. 'BBBBbPPt' "'m
: ly. i SvWBVBHBHBHHaivt JP
j BBBBBBBBBHBwBBBBHSuSBBSBwBBSk -
.nBBBBBBBBKV '' I
PHILLIP McCOLLUM
and his nomination would be received v. ith approval by all leading
Democrats.
Buchanan county and Northwest Missouri is justly entitled
to this honor and the nomination of Mr. McCollum would so en
thuse the Democrats of the upper counties that the Fourth con
gressional district would cive an overwhelming mninvitv .if Vip
N'm.omlOT olwtinn fw it,. nMmK t!w 'pi, ru "?.. " "
M j.u i
I Cmltmf?V0iS
A w L.i v,iv,i,uu aje. 1.111, .iilSl.i.ClkJ.V. LlV,nCL. X11C UUSPI Vei H
..-... u, k..v. piv?aui LIIG ali.c
party harness and the successes which have been the fruit of his
services. Mr. McCollum has always been true to principle, true to
his party and true to his personal friends, all ideal traits of char
acter which recommends him to the public as the right man for
lieutenant governor.
ing gallery, penny arcade, box ball
alleys, Japanese games, boating, bath
ing, fishing, free moving pictures, and
trips up the lake in the neat dandy
little launch Hstelle?
Decoration day, Tuesday, will find
the Custer Post, G. A. R. veterans
paying homage to both the memories
of the departed cuirrades in arms and
on water by beautiful ceremonies and
patrlotic addresses. Salutes will be
fred for Ul0Ee lo whom ..iaps.. w,
,,.. L,i ,i h.o. i it,.
., ,, ,. h 0, , ,, C',...,
WC DUit U, .. , V .... ...V. e .. V. MR
n tclhttt.. l tl trtn wlir. tnllt.1 nr,l
. . . A . m m '
fought before the mast. Drills will be
iConnnued on Page Lignt)
EDSON FOR
REPRESENTATIVE
e Would Represent the Third Legis-
lative District, and Is Meeting
With Splendid Support
r)h. .,iace
"t, J '
of that clai-s of men who
trv lie uuutlllir.cn lie llionrr . ..
success.
1 . Edson Is fully competent to repre
sent the Third district In the MIs-
EOuri house. He is conversant with
the needs of the people of whom he
u one. and will make a representa-
RAMSEY WILL SUE
Hastings, Neb., May 2U. According
to Sheriff Colt, the county, the gov
ernment and all the officials thereof
are t0 be 6Ued y th-e Rev- Jollu John
Mrs. May Titel from St. Joseph to
Hastings for immoral purposes.
The ground for these threatened
suits, according to the minister, will
be that he contracted an Infectious
(Continued on Page Eight)
FOR LIEUT. GOVERNOR
, , , . ...
over the state by the party leaders
r i . t ; -,-T l
xui u uiuci.illK.luie lauuiS III Uie
NO TIME FOR CHANGE
IWhen Men Have Been Tried and
Found Safe, There Is No Need
of New Timber
To the Editor of The Observ er :
Dear Sir Who is this Judge T. L.
Anderson who is being talked of as a
candidate for United States senator
against James A. Reed? Is he any
j relation to the Methodist minister An
iderson who made such a spectacle of
himself a Ehort time ago at a great
conference of Methodists in the East,
by Offering a resolution censuring
Piesident Wilson? He found himself
in the wrong pew when the convention
pigeon-holed that resolution v. d. q.
The reason I thought they might be
related is that this T. L. Anderson
seems to be about as Ignorant of the
standing of Missouri Democrats as the
Methodist Anderson was as to how
the land lay at that Methodist con
ference, but perhaps T. L. will pigeon
hole his announcement v. d. q. when
he comes to understand that Missouri
Democrats feel that it is not the time
for experiments with new timber
when the nation is In the danger zone
from all points of the compass and
we need men in the senate and con-
gresr- who understand nation's busi-
ness affairs thoroughly. The welfare
of thin nation demands that the true
and tried be returned, so Jim and
Charley may as well fix to go back.
Too much danger in changing horses
now. T. L. and the other bunch might
go to conference.
Oregon, Mo May 26.
IT MAKES 'EM CRAZY
Under the heading, "Insane From
Liquor," the American Issue, the onl-
cial organ of the Anti-Saloon League
of America, devotes half a column to
the story of a man who drank intern
rerately and then mistreated his wife.
Tbe story Js "played up" a? part of
the argument in favor of prohibition,
but as the man got his liquor Jn Hock
land, Maine, and, as Maine has had
prohibition for seventy years, the ar
gumont seems to be a "bit thick "
After all, Admiral Evans miut have
been right when he said that the kind
of whiskey sold in Maine did r.at mike
people drunk; It just made them
" I crazy.
KIND WORDS FOR BOOHER
Little Testimonials That Come From
Editors at Not So Much
Per Line
Hon. C. F. Booher last week filed
with the secretary or state for the
nomination for congressman of this,
the Fourth district. Mr. Booher has
made us a good congressman, and in
stead of canvassing his district he Is
in Washington attending to the duties
of his office. Bolckow Herald.
Our very good congressman, Charles
F. Booher, has filed for a renomina
tion at the hands of the Democratic
party. He has served three terms and
is deserving of the fourth term.
Others James H. Hull of Platte, B.
Raleigh Martin of St. Joseph and
Robert I. Young of Buchanan, are to
compete with him for the nomination
ail of whom are good Democrats
and would erve the people good and
well If nominated. Corning Mirror.
Congressman Charles F. Booher has
announced that he will be a candidate
to succeed himself as congressman
from this district. Mr. Booher is a
gonial gentleman and with to many in
the race, It now lookE as if the vote
would be divided in such a way as to
insure his renomination. If it is to
ne a Democrat again, we are not nt
all unfriendly to M"r. Bcoher.-Hop-
kins (Rep.) Journal.
.LARGER DEPOSITS
wj.ii.Lt rLi HjUJSJrXJSiiJ
Information of a Character Which
Will Be Most Pleasing to People
Patronizing Postal Banks
j Platte find that they are helping to
Larger postal savings deposit? wjlliraake tne state Republican and that
now be accepted at the postofflce. tney are Dla'inS Into the hands of the
This is made possible by an import-' Repub,ican Pa"ty, It is highly prob
ant amendment to the postal saving ' able that tbpy wl" think again before
act Just approved by President Wll- they v,ote t0 turn their rights over to
son. A postal savings denositor mav
, "ow ,la e an account amounting to
now have an account amounting
f I Ann .-.! . . ....
fi.uyu, uiiuu wnicn interest will ue
Formerly J500 was Ihe 1"
mnir
mum amount he could hae to hi?
credit. This enlargement of postal
savings facilities will be very gratify
ing to thousands of depositors who
have already reached the old $5C0
limit and are anxious to intrust more
. .. .
(has fallen short of meeting the full
or tneir savings to Uncle Sam. An- J which we clip from the Armstrong
other feature of the amendment tlw Herald:
will avoid further embarrassment to I '"The Anti-Saloon League is all
the public and to postal officials is tne right in its place, but when it comes
doing away with the limit on the t0 the officers of the league trying to
amount that could be accepted from a'?icttte the nomlnees all the parties
depositor monthly. Under the old law lt TaVT Sm f
only $100 could be accepted in a cal- years ago of what the Antl-Salocn
endar month. The amendment abol- League officials can do for a party
ishes this restriction. While the pos- il noiminated the governor in this
tal savings system has already proed i State'
a signal success as is shown by the ' "Tnat the Anti-Saloon League cf
fact that more than half a million de- Miesouri, through its 'superintendent,'
posltors have over eighty million dol- Is P'ay'ng into the hands of Republi
lars standing to their credit, still it , can Politicians, we haven't any doubt.
demands of the public because of the Superintendent Shupp is an Iowa Re
restrictions which have now been Publican, and that be is rendering
eliminated. Postmastr General Bur- National Committeeman Hon. Jake
leson and Third Assistant Postmaster Babler, the late chairman of the Re
General Dockery have been tireless in publican state committee, every pes
their efforts to secure a modification Bible assistance in the nomination and
of the limitations and the new liber- election of John Swanger governor of
alizlng legislation is particularly grat- Missouri.
ifyinr to them.
SWANGER HAS DYED
But It Is Only Those Locks Which
He Hates to See Get Venerable
Looking
John E. Swanger. Renublican can-
dldate for governor, has dyed his
hair. News Item.
Go, tell it now to all the State,
That Johnny Swanger's snowy pate
No longer spotless glows,
But that his dome ('twas counted
pretty,
From Saint Looey to Kansas City)
Is black as any crow's.
He couldn't stand it any longer,
His Lamm-like crown our Johnny
Swanger
No longer could abide.
So to a baiber took his bead
And tho he neither fought nor bled.
ne uyeu.
DR. MAYS FOR CORONER
Dr. J. W. Mays of Easton, who is a
candidate for the Democratic nomina
tionfor coroner" of Buchanan county,
spent teveral days this week In St.
Joseph, meeting his old friends and
making new ones. Doctor Mays is
a physician of high reputation, and
has made good in. his profession. He
is feeling well pleased with the suc
cess with which ho has met so far in
his canvass.
SAYS IT IS ALLY OF
GRAND OLD PARTY
Booneville Advertiser Brings
Serious Charges Against
Anti-Saloon League
CLAIMS THAT IT IS
BEING MANIPULATED
And Charges That Through the Ad
ministration of Its Affairs by Supt.
Shupp It Is Being Used as a Means
to Achieve the Election of Swanger
as Governor and That National
Committeeman Jake Babler Is Us
ing It as a Tool in National Affairs
The good people of Platte county
(and no better ever lived) are jutt
closing up a prohibition campaign
which has, as usual in every cate
caused all torts of hard feelings
among what was heretofore a harmon
ious family. This is the case in every
campaign foisted upon a communitj
and managed by outsiders whose in
terest in the campaign is generally
the creatlcn of bai feeling among
ij-ji;hui communities and the array
ing of one neighbor against another
In this cennpeffnn tho nomnr....,
'grand old Platte should pause a trifle
"iu i,ruu WI1Ht ma "ave to eay in
other communities where such eiec
tlons have been held and where it has
been shown that the Anti-Salccn
League is in partnership with the Re
publican party. If the Democracy cf
I u"'E"ing uepuDiicans
There Is no more trustworthy paper
in Missouri than The Advertiser cf
Boonville. Read this from its latt
issue, and see what you think about
it. Here is what Editor Welden, him
self a temperance man, says:
As His Text
"As a text for this deliverance, we
reproduce this editnpfni r,o..,,n.,o.,i.
- .wm itiukiauu.
i "II comes to us pretty directly that
"We have been informed that be
spends much, of his time in confer
, ences with Mr. Babler, and those who
,are familiar with his tactics do not
(doubt his chief mission is not to ad
vance temperance so much at this
time as to advance the cause of Re
publicanism In Missouri.
Took Snap Judgment
"Some weeks ago he wrote one of
the Democratic candidates for gov
ernor, desiring to know where he
stood on certain temperance issues,
and even before the letter was writ
ten, he announces through the news
papers that 'his league" would oppose
that candidate.
"Superintendent Shupp has stated
what 'his league' was going to do,
without any expression from the exec
utive committee. He considers-him
self the whole show, and claims, what
he directs, the temperance people of
the state, will have to respect and
'obev
"Thus Supt. Shupp is using as a
club an organization which could be
made a power for good In this state,
but by the political and selfish activi
ties of its superintendent, appears to
be but an ally of tho G. O. P.
"When we step to consider the
evils of great trusts, let this particu
lar 'anti-saloon trust,' as now being
operated, not be lightly considered.
"Missouri Democrats will nominate
they have confidence; one they know
iContmued on Page P'gh')
