THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 63.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, MAY 27, 1916.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
ADD TO GAINS
IN CUMIERES
French Troops Captured the
Eastern Part of the
Village
ALSO TRENCHES
' TO NORTHWEST
ANOTHER BORDER CONFERENCE.
Paris War Office Tells of Re
pulse of Germans Near
Fort Douaumont
Paris, May 27. French troops captured
the eastern part of the village of Cumie
res and took the German trenches north
vt est of the village. An attack . on the
French trenches bordering Fort Bouau
inont was repulsed, a war office state
Inent announced to-day.
STILL HOLD FORT APPROACHES.
French Stick to Borders of Fort Douau
mont.
London, May 27. Heavy righting in the
region or V erdun continues, with the Ger
mans still the aggressors, but according
to the latent trench ouicial conimuni
cation no new changes in positions have
taken place.
Following up their recapture of Fort
Douaumont, northeast of Verdun, tho
Germans have striven, but ineffectually,
to drive out the French from approaches
to the fort, wyere they drew their lines
when lorced to vacate the fort itsell.
The attack was a strong one, but Par
is reports that under the fire of the
French infantry and rapid firers it was
completely repulsed, the Germans sutler
ing heavy casualties. This was the only
infajitry attack in all the Verdun region,
eays Pans, but the artillery of both
sides has been extremely active on all
sectors, Rnd especially in the region of
Avocourt and Hill 304.
The British and Germans have confined
their recent fighting mainly to bombard
ments and sapping operations. There
have been several minor infantry at
tacks and bomb throwing expeditions by
both sides but in these no material ad
vantage accrued to cither.
Comparative calm prevails along the
Russian front, the only fighting of mo
ment noted being north of Lake Miad
ziol, where the Russians put down a Ger
man attempt to capture their trenches.
In the Caucasus region, where the
Turks and Russians are . engaged, the
situation is reported unchanged.
Eighteen persons have been killed and
a score injured in an Austrian air raid
on Ban, Italy.
Pershing Will Meet Gavira at Latter's
Request.
Washington, P. C, May 27. Another
conference of Mexican and American
military commander was arranged yes
terday. Secretary Baker announced that
General Pershing, heading the American
expedition in Mexico, would meet Gen
eral Gaviiu, Carranza's commander in
Chihuahua, at the latter' request, to
work out plan for closer co-operation in
their military operations. General Fun
ston has approved the proposal.
It is believed that General Gavira will
go immediately to General Pershing's
headquarters at Namiquipa for the con
ference. Some definite arrangement to
preclude the possibility of clashes be
tween Carranza and American soldiers by
keeping them apart, is expected here to
he one of the important results ot m
discussions.
Officials were not advised whether Gen
eral Carranza or General Obregon hud
approved GUvira's request, and it was be
lieved he probably' acted on his own ini
tiative as supreme military commander
of the state of Chihuahua.
While arrangements for the conference
were being made by General Fuireton the
state department received yesterday its
first oflicial information as to the probable
tenor of the new note from General Car
ranza, on its way here by special mes
senger.
hpecinl Acrent Rodgers at Mexico City
reported that while he had been unable
to obtain from Carranza. otlicials any
hint us to the content of the communi
cation, newspapers in the capital, closely
censored by the federal government, were
printing statements that it would de
mand immediate withdrawal of the
American expedition.
WTiiIe officials here believe the phrase
ology of the note will be largely for Mex
ican consumption, designed to appease
popular indignation over presence of
United states forces in Mexico, tney
hope General Carranza has not gone so
far as to uutke an unqualified demand
for withdrawal. J-.liseo Arredondo, Mex
ican ambassador designate, issued a state
ment yesterday declaring the Carranza
government was "doing everything in its
ixwer to bring negotiations to a eonelu
sion satisfactory to all parties and in a
manner which will sacrifice neither the
self-reepect nor the pride of either na
tion."
IDOL OF FRANCE
IS MOURNED
General Joseph S. Gallieni,
' Hailed as Savior of
Paris, Dead .
HE WAS FORMER
MINISTER OF WAR
2,500 ITALIANS
WERE CAPTURED
ON MOUNTAIN
Austrian Official Statement Says That a
Quantity of War Material Was
Also Seized.
Vienna, May 27. Twenty-five hundred
Italians, four guns, four machine guns
and a quantity of war material were cap
tured by the Austrians, why stormed an
extensive mountain ridge on the Trentio
front, according to a wr office official
statement to-day.
SKIPPED WITH $10,515.
Morgan Office Boy Had Firm's Weekly
PayrolL
Xew York, May 27. J. P. Morgan &
Co. yesterday requested the police to
search for William McMunus, an 18
year-old office boy, mi a complaint that
he disappeared shortly before noon yes
terday, taking with him the sum of $Ti
615, representing the firm's weekly pay
roll.
MONTPELIER
City Council Talked Street Lights, Side
walks and Roads.
Street lights, sidewalks and roads were
the questions which principally inter
ested the city council last evening, it
being the adjourned regular meeting from
Wednesday night. The council decided
to meet at the city hall at 10:15 Sunday
to attend the memorial services at !st
Augustine's church. The mayor was giv
en authority to engage two janitors for
the municipal building at a sum not to
eceed $30 per week. John Miglierini, a
local contractor, gave notice to the conn
cil that he was desirous of obtaining the
cement sidewalk jobs this summer, as
during the members that the price would
be as low as could be obtained. Jvo ac
tion was taken, and the remainder of the
meeting was devoted to discussing appli
cations for new sidewalks, lights and
other routine business.
Death in Versailles Caused
a Profound Sensation
MUST BE PREPARED
TO PROTECT TRADE
United States Ought to Be Able to Exert
Powerful Influence in Aiding and Even
Compelling International Peace, Says
Judge Elbert H. Gary.
Xew York, May 27. Declaring that the
Lniteu Mates was rapidly becoming the
leader among the nations of the world
end that it was "high time for everyone
to understand that a large majority of
the people of the I'nited Slates will in
sist upon the utilization of every facility
to protect and honorably to further the
interests of their own country," Judge
Kliicrt H. Gary spoke here yesterday at
the annual meeting of the American Iron
and Steel institute on what be considered
"momentous questions."
"There are now confronting the people
of this country," he said, "certain mo
mentous qiieMions. They inole life.
liN'rty and happiness. Tliey are under
disciiwion by the most talented writers
ml speakers and they are in the
1 bought and mouths of the multitude.
It is likely opportunity will be given to
the voters to give expression to their
views in the near future relating to some
of thee questions. The large majority
have a friendly feeling toward busine
suceeM. large or small, so long aa it is
decently and fairly conducted.
" believe thoroughly in the regula
tion and restraint of business in such a
way a to prevent harm and injury to
the public interest; but we do nt agree
tliat the proper way to prevent barm is
to destroy the agencies which may be
and generally are utilized for the promo
tion of good.
Filial adjournment of the March term
of Washington county court, which has
been threatened for nearly two weeks
was taken late yesterday afternoon, and
Judge fred M. Butler of Kutland, who
has presided, left this forenoon for his
home in Rutland. He will return June 20
to hear cases left with the court. The
Heald-Sutton, Perry chancery case was
completed yesterday, and decision was
reserved by tho chancellor.
Frederick Gear of East State street
left this afternoon for Melrose, Mass., to
spend a few days with relatives.
Senator Carroll S. Page of Hvde Park,
who has been in the city since Thursday
afternoon, left last night for Xew lork
City and Washington, IJ. C. He was ac
companied by Senator Lawrence Y. Sher
man of .Illinois, who gave the "keynote"
speech at the Republican state conven
tion yesterday afternoon.
Mrs. J. A. Cantillon left this forenoon
for Worcester, Mass., where she will
visit relatives for several weeks.
Miss Rene.e Raymond went this fore
noon to Bethel to pass the week-end with
relatives.
Memorial services wil be held to-morrow
forenoon at 10:30 o'clock at St. Au
gustine's church, Rev. P. J. Long, pastor,
to deliver the sermon, and Brooks post,
No. 13, G. A. R., Brooks Relief corps,
Sons of Veterans, Spanish War Veterans
and associates and members of the city
council have been invited to attend.
Brooks post has issued the Memorial day
program, a parade to be held Tuesday
morning at 10 o'clock, the prootwsion to
form at the junction of School and Main
streets and report to Marshal Joseph B.
.Morse. 1 he following program will bn
carried out in the city hall auditorium at
the conclusion of the parade: Selection,
band; prayer, Rev. P. J. Iong; readirg
of the general order. No. 11, issued May
5, 18fi8, by John A. Logan, national com
mander; Lincoln's flettj-sburg address.
Bvron Tillotson; address. Rev. J. Hail
Long; music by 100 school children; me
morial ceremonies by the G. A. R.; sing
ing of America. In issuing the program.
Commander H. M. Pierce calls attention
to the fact that Brooks post has had 318
members on its roll, it now has but o3
members. The commander states that
about a score of former members are liv
ing, but not in this vicinity, and reports
that nine comrades died during the year
1915.
Taris, May 27. General Joseph S. Gal
lieni, former minister of war, died at
Versailles to-day. His death, while ex
pected, created a profound impression
as General Gallieni was idolized by the
French people, particularly the poorer
classes who regarded him as the saviour
of Paris during the critical days of Au
gust, 1914. Ihe funeral will be the oc
casion of notable military and civil dem-J
onstrations.
On August 27, 1914, with the Germans
threatening Paris, he was given the im
portant post of commandjf of the en
trenched camp and military governor of
fans. Ihe question of declaring Paris
an open town was seriously discussed
at that time. The departure of the gov
ernment for Bordeaux created a great
deal of uneasiness and all those who
were in the capital at the time recall
the feeling of relief and revival of con
ndenee following the posting of Gal-
lem s proclamation in which he declared :
I have received the mission of defend
ing Paris against the invader; I shall
accomplish that mission to the end."
At once his organizing ability and en
ergy were shown. In a few days the city
was surrounded by new field fortifica
tions, heavy artillery was posted at all
antage points, a complete system of tel-
phonic and telegraphic communication
was established around the city. The part
he played in the Battle of the Marne is
partly known; how on a Sunday, while
von Kluck's lightning-like advance was
progressing he sent i50,000 men of the
troops of the army to Paris, in fxi motor-cars,
across the town, out to the
pot where General Maunourr was as
sembling his army and brought his force
up to a strength that enabled him to
fall upon von Kluck's flank protection
and start the great victory of the Marne.
MOODY'S ELECTION
ON SECOND BALLOT
GERARD FEELS
PEACE MOVE
ft ft
American Ambassador in
Berlin Convinced Peace
Is in Sight
TO TAKE ACTION
Need Peace, He Is Quot
ed as Saying
Alternates to Chicago Were Then Elect
ed, Senator Sherman Spoke and Re
publican State Convention
Adjourned.
The Republican state convention for
election of delegates and alternates toi
the national convention in Chicago closed
its business at the Montpelier city hall
at 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon, having
completed th election of delegates by
the choice of O. E. Moody of Water bury
over Hugh J. M. Jones of Monti-elier for WIT.SOM TN POSTTTON
eighth member of the delegation, having . . ,
. ... ... . ' . . I m-V m A TTT7I A WTr
elected a list ot alternates and having
listened to U. S. Senator Lawrence Y.
Sherman of Chicago. The election of
Moody was accomplished on the second
ballot w-nen a total voie or 441 was cast, i . XT , .
of which George o. Oridw of Windsor America ana ah lxeuirais
had 30, Jones had 172 and Moody had
23!).
As finally constituted, therefore, the
Vermont delegation will be made up as I
follows: Theodore N. v ail of Lyndon,!
Edmund R. Morse of Proctor, George IT.
r runty o. T i-.uuih, . TUrlin. Ma 27 American Amhaasa
R nm I'll Ha ITillins M CrtVKi nf Tien. I '
nington, uuy. w. umiey oi Kssex, Jonnr" " f--
T. dishing; of St. Albans and George E. sight, according to an interview pub-
Moody of Waterbury; alternates, Ale- lighed in a Munich newsnaner to-dav
ander TJunnett of St, Johnsbury Millard from a rIin correspondent. Gerard is
of Ludlow, Miles B. Sawyer of Rutland. lu,td M "ymg: "Nothing can ahake
E. A. Davis of Bethel, Henry B. Shaw of my confidence that peace is- on its way."
Burlington, F. C. Archibald of Manchea- The ambassador referred to the settle-
ter and Smith B. Waite of Hyde Park. ment of the differences of the United
In opening his speech Senator Sherman States and Germanr aa m-enarincr the
congratulated me ivepuriicans ox er- war for President Wilson to take up the
mont on their "united and active forces peace ouestion. He said that Wilson now
worKing sensiniy tows r a ins isovemoer had greater freedom of action to deal
goal," and he declared that Vermont was with the immense world problem which
fortunate in her present representation will determine the future attitude of
in Congress. He also said that if Senator nearly all the countries of the tlobe. He
Page is chcen to succeed himself it will said it was use'less to discuss whether
be a "fitting recognition of faithful serv- Wilson's intermediation is desirable or
ice, of a uteady performance of duty and probable in this Instance. Facts alone
of untiring presence in the committee must speak and the most important fact
and tenate cnamoer.T is that neutrals are probably as much in-
Senator Sherman then launched into terested in bringing about etirly peace as
an attack on the Democratic party, say- the belligerents. America urgently needs
ing in part: peace and for this reason alone the Amer-
"The Democratic party fs now well into ican government is under obligations to
the fourth year of its term. It began its citizens to do and support everything
lit. i : ti :ii J i.i.
wim rreuiy ninugeB. it win ena wuii i serving me cause or peace.
little performance. It elected its presi
dent on the 1P12 Baltimore platform. The
country will defeat him on any platform
because he has kept none of its pledges
and if he had it would only have empha
sized the utter incompetence of his party
either to write platforms or to jrovem
RUN OVER BT AUTO.
Miss Mabel Powers of Richford Not S
riously Hurt.
r t 1 r a r: 1 r.l i n
the eonnfrr. The nroner criticism is that ti.au j
th. naWimr )e,wi w-r. H I stenographer in the Sweat Comings com
pany'i office, was run orer Thursday aft
1 J A 1 . 1 A V-
nored. It savors of obtaining political " , " Tl" c.wK, as sue w
. f,, t (leaving the office of the company and
votes and afterwards abandoned and ig-
"The Democratic promises of 1912 fori " " . , ? r ""-
tariff reform have accomplished nothing
STATE Y. M. C. A. CONVENTION
Was Opened with a Banquet in Burlington.
A friee photH-Tsph of a Canadian
r'ginwi.t quartered at St. Johns, P. Q..
throng Die winter. i exhibited in B. W.
lioker A lo.'i vnndow. A number of
Ifcrre boys who en!ed in the (n l as
"ntir.gnt lt winter may be rcrnired
in the picture.
A ninth inning rsllv by St. Johnsburv
seademy's baseball tesm fell short by
two runs of the necessary number to w in
over Montpelier seminary yesterday aft
ernoon, and the visitors were humbied bv
a score of 9 to 7. The wildneos of Gal
lagher in the firt few innings and the
inability of Warden or Packer to catch
his shoots were responible for mot of
the seminary's runs. The seminary made
only three hits, but six errors, some
walks and passed balls helped to gin up
the total. In the final inning, with two
men on bases, Gallagher laced out a
home run. I'ntil the ninth. St. John-
bury made orlv f.ur hits off Holmsv and
had scored by twice. The score by in-
mcirs: r. h.e.
Mont. Sem....O 3 1 1 2 2 0 0 .-9 3 4
M. J. AcaL..O 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 57 7
Hlwy ill Arkley; CtViMght and
Wsrl'o, Kicker.
Burlington, Mhy 27. The anniversary
dinner in commemoration of the 49th an
niversary of the state committee of the
Young Aten's Christian Associations of
Vermont and the 50th anniversary of the
Burlington Young Men's Christian asso
ciation, which was held last evening at
the Van Ness house, was a splendid trib
ute to the (associations' achievement in
the past and rich in its promises for even
greater success in the future, surpassing
in numbers and enthusiasm all previous
similar functions. The dinner waa the
first important event on the program of
the 44th etate convention of the Young
Aliens Christian associations, and was
attended by the 60 delegates.
The first speaker introduced by. Dr
Benton was Gov. Charles W. Gates of
Franklin, who brought to the gathering
greetings from the entire state, and re
ceived a hearty ovation from his audi
ence. In a virile and interesting speech
Governor Gates advocated the expending
of sv portion of the time, energy and
money now spent in developing the ma
terial resources of the state to the up
building of the state s manhood and worn
anhood, and said that Vermont congrat
ulatcd the men of the Y. M. C. A-. asso
ciations on being engaged In such impor
tant work.
Mayor Albert S. Drew welcomed the
convention to Burlington and congtiatu
lated the local association upon the won
derful improvements wrought since its
founding 60 years mo. He characterized
tfle Y. M. C. A. as one of the grandest
institutions in America.
Greetings from the pastors of the citv
churches were happily extended by Rev.
Dr. C. v . Grismer, pastor vif the Meth
odist r.pisoopal church, who dwelt upon
the eo-opcrVition of the church and the
i. M. C. A. He said that the organiza
tion, by the adoption of Christian prin
ciples, had built itself upon a founda-
ion both adequate and endnnng and
upon which the whole world agreed.
Dr. George T. Coxhead. IX. D., of Xew
York, secretary of the international com
mittee of the Y. M. C. A., explained the
work of the committee, which he said
was to serve the great brotherhood of
the Y. M. C. A. Burlintrton was repre-
Isented at the convention of the interna
tional committee at Albany. X. Y., m
Sfl6. the first year of the' local Y. M.
C. A., by John II. Worcester, jr. It was
at this meeting that it was voted to have
the committee met permanently in Xew
York and mtany other improvements to
facilitate its work were marie. Dr. Cx
hesd extended to the gathering the heart
iest greetings and best wishes of his
committee and of the brotherhood which
it represents.
The first of the responses to the greet
ings was made by Clarence P. Cowles,
president of the Burlington Y. M. C. A.
He aid that the association hoped that
its life and activities of the SO years of
its existence might be taken as pledges
for its existence in the years to come.
and that the making of good citizens
would ever be the asociation's chief pur
poe. In behalf of the state committee of the
Y. M. C A, W. J. Vsn Patten made a
ftting reply to tie word of welcome of
the various speakers. He spoke of the
committee's work i the past and of its
opportunity in the future and aJso dwelt
at length np"n the work of John R. Motf
of ths interruiti't)sl committee.
The sd'iress of the eTen.ng- was deli.
er4 Kr Dr. David G. IiWuv nf Xew i
Dr. H
S. Herrick was driving his sutomobile
VVI""B v.iil . i . 1 i l . l
except to demonstrate their folly. Under saw me nanger aneaa, .mi ne
t,- f rwW toil c" passea over ner. i ne aocior sioppea
rich have grown poorer nor the poor rich- the car and puked her up and took her
er. Xeither the American farmer nor to her J1" .f"tr avenue. Lpon
the laboring man have been benefited. eo?P,rt? examination no bones were
The wage darner has felt the increased found, hrokBn ' nd Internal .injuries
f .i.i r t;. tt were found, although she was bruised. Xo
has far exceeded any increase 1n wage. blame M ttched to either party
Our export trade receives no permanent
benefit and our home markets are open FUNERAL AT ST. MONICA'S.
br increased imports to the competition
of the world. The Democratic tariff act Services for William R. O'Brien Were
contains the elements of disaster. The Held To-day
external protection of the European warl
ham delaved its natural effect. Oedit is Funeral services for William 1,
claimed 'for a vast export trade. The O'Brien, who passed away at his home
activity of certain manufacturers and 39 West street, Thursday, were held at
the absorption of idle labor everywhere St. Monica's church this morning at 0
in evidence In 1913 and 1914 are the nat- o ciocjc, tne paristi priest, Kev. r. ju. Ple
ural result of wur orders in a colossal Kenna, officiating at the requiem mass.
sum. (The bearers were: Charles Dalton of
"Contraband munitions of war, iss well Barre and John Dalton of Moretown,
as non-contraband during peace periods brothers-in-law of the deceased, borden
and war periods, are the test. The nor- O'Brien of Canaan, X. H., a brother of
mal condition of mankind is the perma- Mr. O'Brien and Walter Legier of Mont
nenfc level from which to calculate the re- pelier. There were numerous floral trib-
sults of economic forces. From July 1, utes. Interment was made in the Cath
1913, to Feb. 1, 1914, we exported $395,- (olio cemetery on Bcckley street.
528,000 of 32 forms of merchandise di
rectly used in or relating to war. For
the like seven months we exported of the
siame 32 articles in 1918 $1,242,412,000.
This is an increase of $S4fi,884.000 of the
war period of 1915-1918 over the peace
period of 1913 1914. This abnormal in
crease in exports cannot be sustained in
peace.
For the like seven months ending Jan.
31, 1912, our total import were $912,
199.618. For a like seven months ending
Jan. 31. 1918, our total imports were
$1,097,148,991. An increase of $185,000,-
000 in imporfs in a seven months war
period as compared w:th S. peace period.
This increase in imports is not acciden
tal. It is the certain result of certain
causes.- we would not expect an in
crease in war when the principal nations
exporting to us from JMirope are occu
MOTHERS' MEETING A SUCCESS,
Many People Enjoyed the Entertainment
By the Odd Ladies.
Two hundred people, comprising mem
hers of Granite City lodge, of Odd Ladies
and many outside the fraternity, gath
ered at K. of C. hall for the long antici
pated "Mothers' Meeting," in which
cat of eleven Odd Ladles appeared.
Twenty minutes of real comedy fused
with sparkling bits of clever amateur
acting, featured the mock assembly o
spinisters, matrons and maidens. The
parts were carefully assigned and each
participant performed creditably. Much
humor interlarded the conference of worn
en as depicted in "The Mothers' Meeting."
and applause was generously given by an
appreciative audience.
The cast of characters was ss follows;
"Miss Sharp," Miss Josephine Rizzi)
"Miss Hoyt," Miss Annie Anderson;
Mrs. Lowell," Mrs. Xellie Bianchi: "Mrs.
Crowlcr," Miss Margaret Carle; "Mrs.
Smiths," Miss Josephine Hestclli; "Mrs.
Browne," Mrs. Christina Walker; "Mrs,
Henderson, Mrs. Eleanor Faulkner;
Miss White," Mrs. Maria Watt; "Miss
Keene," Mrs. Kate Davidson; Miss
Gray," Mis. Harry Dale; "Jane," Mrs,
Hannah Palmer.
Afterward there was an enjoyable
dance program, when the audience that
witnessed the farce was augmented by
a large company of dancers. Music was
furnished by Miss Bessie Spear and
James P. Riley'. At intermission refresh
ments of ice cream and wafers were
served.
The committee in charge of the affair
consisted of Mrs. Nellie Bianchi, chair
man; Miss Maggie Carle, Miss Jose
phine Rizzie, Mrs. David Faulkner, Mrs.
Armita Bianchi, Mrs. David Gilbertson,
Mrs. Hannah Palmer, Mrs. Maria Watt,
Mrs. James GealB, Mrs. Helen Stephen,
Mrs. John Walker, Mrs. Barry Henry,
Mrs. William Morren and Mrs. Gladys
Comolli.
BODY TAKEN TO QUINCY
TALK OF THE TOWN
Attorney A. A. Sargent of French
street has returned from a business trip
to Ludlow.
Albert Creamer of Merchant street has
returned from Greensboro, where he has
been passing a week in canip at Lake
Caspian.
Xo entries were made on the blotter at
police headquarters over night. A val
uable four-colored cat and a derelict rob
in which flew into the station bad the
place of detention to themselves. The
cat may be claimed by its owner. The
bird wae paroled at dawn this morning.
A Bethel man who was a passenger in
the jitney overturned near Intercity park
Thursday night, ha taken counsel in the
Following the Funeral cf August Johnson
in Bane.
Two Swedish orders of Barre, relatives
and a representative gathering of friends
gathered yesterday afteraoon to pay
tribute to the memory of August John
son, whose death occurred at hfc home,
23 Church street, Wednesday morning
fter a long illness. Prayer services at
the house at 2 oclock were followed a
half-hour later by the funeral, which was
held in the Hedding Methodist church.
The pastor. Rev. B. G. Lipsky, was as-
sted by Rev. X. i.dwall, pastor ot the
Swedish Baptist misi?on. Delegations
from the Swedish Order of Vasa and the
Scandinavian Brotherhood of America
ere present. The bearers were: Aaron
ustafson, Carl Mattson xyid Oscar John
son, representing the order ot vasa, ana
Arthur Anderson, Edward Erickson and
Emanuel Johnson from Scandinavian
Brotherhood. Over the Central Vermont
railroad this morning at 12:15 o'clock,
the body was taken to Quincy, Mass., for
interment in Mount Wollaaton cemetery.
The remains were accompanied by Mrs.
Johnson and Miss Augusta Sandblad, a
sister of the deceased.
The floral offering included the follow
ing tributes: Heart, wife and children;
wreath, sister; star, Vasa order; pillow,
Scandinavian brotherhood, of Barre; an
chor, Vasa order of Montpelier; carna
tions and sweet peas. Scandinavian
brotherhood, of Montpelier; roses and
lilies, classmates of Mis Gunhild John
son; roses, Mr. and Airs. westDerg, Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Anderson, Mr. and Mrs.
Olaf Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Erick An
derson; carnations and roses, Mrs. Liven
dale and family; roses, Mr. and Mrs
Aaron Gustafson; pansies, Mr. and Mrs.
Isaac Peterson; carnations, Mr. and Mrs.
Ernest Johnson, Mrs. Johnson, Mr. and
Mrs. O. E. Anderson, Mr. snd Mrs. al
dus Bengtson, Mr. and Mrs. Carl Erick
son, C. W Averill, Mr. and Mrs. C. Pier
son, neighbors, Mr. and Mrs. P. Hedwall,
Mr. snd Mrs. Oscar Johnson, Mr. and
Mrs. Edward Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. A
Knutson, Mr. end Mrs. Edward Erickson,
Mrs. Ida Martinson, Mr. and Mrs. A
Olsen. Rituals of the two attending or
ders were given at the church.
SHARP WORP,
TO A'.iES
V
That "Lawless V.ctice" of
Interfering ',h Mails
Must .T.'ase ,
AMERICAN NOTE
IS REVEALED
United States Issued Warn
ing to Great Britain
and France
FORMER BERLIN MAN.
pied in great military undertakings. Tn "?tter and. ith h.i? -Mwn'r to
increase in export's calls for our surplus
merchandise tr.iceable to war uses. The
Increased imports are the result of free
listing 70 per cent of all merchandise
coming through the customs houses into
our market. This increase in imports
will rise steadily until pea. is declared,
when it will swell into a flood to over
whelm our markets, our employers, wage
earners and producers.
Against this unwise poller the Re
publican purty sets up a protective tar
iff. It frsnkiv avows its purpose is to
give the American market to the Amer
ican producer, to the emplover and the
employe, to the man who meets the pay
rolls and the man carried on the payrolls
the scene of the accident this morning to
explain the circumstances leading up to
the overturning of the car. A badlv
jammed right hand is one of the remind
ers of the accident borne bv the man
from Bethel. ....
Christian Endeavor society represent
tives from the First Baptist and Congre
gational churches motored to Orange
(enter this morning to attend the ash
ington county convention. Among those
who were expected to speak this after
noon and evening were Dr. J. F. Tiani of
the Italian mission on Brook street and
Rev. Bert J. Lehigh of the First Baptist
church.
Benefits accruing to Barre granite
manufacturers and quarriers from the
Inula in rA V. vr n 1 mariin ..Q 1. r f
and an Ame'richn'standard of living. The "t-nal advertising campaign recently
cost of this living has not bot-n reduced 'aiincnea were aes.-r.oea in oeia.i at
by the Democratic free trade tariff act.
Even before the war came, statistics
gathered from the department of labor
showed a steady rie in the staples of
life. The Republicans therefore appeal
to the country to condemn the Demo
cratic tariff revision of Oct. 3. 1913."
FUNERAL Of MARTHA CAMPBELL.
Service Held Friday Afternoon and Burial
Was at Elm wood.
The funeral of Mis Marths Campbell.
a hijrhly respected resident of rieassnt
street. whoe sudden death occurred Wed
nesday evening, was held at the PerrT A
Noonsn mortuary chapel in IVpot square
Friday afternoon at 2 oV,-k. F.er. W.
J. M. Best tie. rector of the Church cf the
Good Pbepherd. was the offic iating clergy
man. The gutl-erinjr at the chapi in
cluded mony n rVr snd other sc
q'laintsnces of the decsed. The bearers
were Mews. lck. Biackmre, McHaffi
nl Forest. Neveml fn flnrsl pr
were rrtr;H!ited- Interment was fn 4e
joint meeting of the two associations in
Manufacturers hall last evening by rep
resentatives of the Tylor-Critciineld-Clsgue
Co. and the Curtis TulJishing (V).
There was a Is rge gathering of members
snd much interest was shown in the data
presented by the advertising men. The
meeting was the fifth of a series of edu-
Alfred B. Thompson Died in Moberly, Mo.,
Yesterday.
A message was received this morning
bv Edwin Carleton announcing the death
of his brother-in-law, Alfred B, Thomp
son, at Moberly, Mo., where he had resid
ed for many years. Mr. Thompson was
born in Berlin, being the son of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Warren Thompson. He secured
his education in Montpelier and at the
University of Vermont. When the Civil
war broke out he enlisted in the nine
months' men from Vermont and Kiter
was associated with General Pitkin.
At the cloce of the war Mr. Thompson
went west and settled in Moberly, where
he. was engaged in the clothing business.
He had been in declining health for sev
eral vears and his death, which occurred
yesterday, was due to old age. He leaves
his wife. Interment is to be at Moberly.
Washington, May 27. The United
States, denouncing interference with neu
tral mails, has notified Great Britain and
France that it can no longer tolerate the
wrongs which American citizens have suf
fered and continue to suffer through the
lawless practice" those governments
have indulged in, and that only a radi
cal change of policy, restoring the United
States to its full rights as a neutral
power, will be satisfactory.
this notification is given in the latesi
American communication to the two gov.
ernments, the text of which was made
public by the state department last night.
The time in which the change must be
effected is not specified, but the United
Mates expects prompt action.
Onerous and vexatious" abuses which
have been perpetrated by the British
and French governments in seizing and
censoring neutral mails are recited in
the . communication, and answers are
made to the legal arguments contained
in the reply of the entente governments
to the first American note on the sub
ject. It is vigorously set forth that
not only have American commercial in
terests been injured, but that the rights
of property have been violated and the
rules of international law and custom
palpably disregarded. Xotice is served
that the United States soon will press
claims against the British and French
governments for the losses which already,
have been sustained.
The concluding clause of the note
follows:
"The government of . the United States
in view of the improper methods em
ployed by the British and French author
ities in interrupting mails psssing be
tween the United States and other states
and the enemies of Great Britain, can
no longer tolerate the wrongs which.
citizens of the United States have suf
fered and continue to suffer through these
methods. To submit to a lawless prac
tice of this character would open the
door to repeated violations of interna
tional law by the belligerent powers on
the ground of military necessity of which
the violator would be the sole judge.
Manifestly a neutral nation cannot per
mit its rights on the high seas to be
determined by belligerents or the ex
ercise of those rights to be permitted or
denied arbitrarily by the government of
a warring nation. The rights of neutrals
are as sacred as the rights of belligerents
and must be as strictly observed."
"The government of the United Stales,
confident in the regard for international
law and the rights of neutrals, which the
British and French governments have so
often proclaimed and. the disregard of
which they, have urged so vigorously
against their enemies in the present w ar,
expects the present practice of the Brit
ish and Frenoh authorities in the treat
ment of mails from or to the United
States to cease, and belligerent rights, as
exercised, to conform to the principal
governing the passage of mail matter and
to the recognized practice ot nations.
Only a radical change in the present
British and French policy, restoring to
the United States its full rights as a neu
tral power, will satisfy this government."
LIFE SAVED BY INCHES.
C. L. U. COMMITTEES
Were Announced at Session of the Organ
ization Last Evening.
At a regular meeting of Central Ibor
union last night in carpenters' hall, the
president made the following appoint
ments of committees, which were con
firmed by the delegates prc"nt :
Credential committee Angus v.-ivn-
ald. granite cutters; Lawrence Wilson,
bakers; W. J. Kimball, engineers; George
Mcsrns. paving cutters.
Union label committee Jchn Calla-
ghsn; Wesley Hoffman, cigarmakcrs;
Dan C. Rifri. clerks; George Ros. hak-
Man Knocked Off Freight Car By En
gine's Start.
A man named Bianchi. said to be a
resident of the L. M. Averill block, es
caped death by inches in the M. & XV. R.
freight yard this morning when he ten
from a flat car to the track as a long
string of 'fiats" were about to be shunt
ed down the yard toward Depot square.
According to eyc witnesses itianclii, ap-
arenny lmpawen i run-i.
f tho tracks, which was held dov. n just
hen by one of the quarry trains, scaled
. flat car. Just as he reached his feet,
after climbing aboard, a sudden jolt from
fbe shifter, pushed him from the end
of the platform to the ground.
Brakeman Joseph 1. (iray sensed tho
situation in time, to give a hurry-ii
signal to the engineer, whs, with hi
throttle open for the journev down the
yard, applied the brakes just in time to
save Bianchi s lite, the man was lyinjj
between the front trucks of the csr bo
had boarded and the rear trucks of an
other flat car when be was assisted
from his perilous position.
AN ESCORT OF FRIENDS.
Followed Remains of Ambrogio Bardelli
to Hope Cemetery.
Funeral services for Ambrogio Bsrdrlli,
a fteran of the Italian army and a.
prominent member of the Barre Italian
colony, who pss-ed sway at his home, -
I.a'M street. 1 u'
in.l'lmwood erwterv. .. Brv.e of M;
York. wtie subject ws. '. Formuls for amphefl. Fraw Its ml. of New Haven,
ers; F. C. Tucker, granite cutters, Ess-t
cational gatherings planned for the spring Barr: Arthur Kotisse, steam engineers,
and early summer. Refreshments were Cranitct ille.
served before djoumment. j (rpanirtmn committee Fred XV.
treet returned from work last evening ! Maker, t vr-.grsr hical unK-n: t. arret t 1 'mcermg illncs. were held at the house
he was surprised to find thst since tie! Robeits. plumbers: H B. Wvkcs. ,,,. Friday sttemoon at 2 oclock. Twenty
supper hour her home bed been converted :chinit; f.w i.rsn teviile. Frnc'n Pidd.-l. v members of Miitno Jcrr, an Ital
intn an arrle hlrm.ni bower, w W ln.rr worieis. .tchn Mr.Vil.-v. n.isrrv pan S'w icty. ennrt'tuted an e -ort whil-s
eral of her rirl chums had csthered in workers.
honor of her erprncfci?g niarrisr. The i Fdwsti.ni committee- Hs
guet brought gifts of linen, wrapped in
union; .1 Kin lVnai.1. iVTt
M-siibood.-
Vnn., ws is tow for the fuaeral.
pink paper and tied with whit nbhon
M'M Rollins was much nrpried. hot
thanked her guet, who Kad taken this
opportunity t extend their gmd wi.he.
Ihiring the evening delicious re'reV
met wwre encd by Mm. Ro'bn Th
fTa ir was iiccefii''r planned br Mie
.ro ewhsll snd Flirence .1!n. M
PoJIin' nisrrijiire to Fwerr J. Newts'!
of Har.g street '1 tske f mc the f-.r-t
of Jut.
dsv forenoon sfter a
ss lciiiir removed to Hop
The bearer, members of Mu-
her union; K.N. Pbilhri. k. carpenter rr': ' ;''. '
l.'.r, lv,.!.t ,irr.' . It li. t.. icitim-ii. i . a n. r. rerran ini
the body
rrv Pate nol- imctc-y.
!Kn; I- A. ( a-p rt-r. 1 1 m ;ik al un
. n: K. 1- Ho'ie. lusrVri' union
i Ri"olution ccrr p- tt-e -lmc M.Don
1d. t'c-l hrpe -- rriiofi: H V. Po -.
csTr-etf " union : .1 V M.I' riii, roi-i-h'T
UMop. : I,toiir!e.n. lii-Tvf-r
ij lf.er: ..-..r;- T'"!.. inr; jstS if
I l-trrr.
I'rl . rr Mee- i-! j, rt r I st re 1
tsry.
I. Frorttini, There a profuse forsl
rf!cn!'? Among thoe "ho came front
t! stance to attend th tuners! w
IVlice tv.mr Hi of Milf. rd. X. I?., a bret Ti
er in !' of C'e defeated.
Ns:ice to Csrt cf C:ty Water.
1 V- tr n 'I b l,-it c frf'Ti ll ritr
y fro-n a. m. until j p. m,
f r f-i-h t-.
F. . L"
