VOL LV11I. NO. 182
POPULATION 28,210
NORWICH C0N. MONDAY. JULY 31 1916
EIGHT PAGES SIXTY-FOUR COLS,
f'RiSI twa GENT
Ths Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest In Coitneoticut in Proportion id the City's Papulation
Ammunition Awaiting Shipment to the Entente Allies
Blown Up on Black Tom Island, New York Bay,
at 1:05 Sunday Morning
2 PERSONS KNOWN5 TO
Scores of Persons Were Injured, Some of Them Probably
Fatally Detonations Were Continuous and Could be
Heard in Five States Fire Started Soon After the First
Great Crash, Destroying Thirteen of the Huge Ware
houses in Which Were Stored Merchandise Valued Be
tween $12,000,000 and $15,000,000 The Cause of the
Disaster Has Not Been Determined, But is Said to Have
Followed a Fire Which Started on a Barge It Will be
Several Days Before the Exact Loss of Life Will be
Kno-ivn Many Men Were Blown Hundreds of Feet.
?Cew York, July 30. Property loss
estimated at ?;3.0QO,000 was caused
early today by a series of terrinio ex
plosions of ammunition awaiting ship
ment to the entente allies and stored
on Black Tom Island, a small strip of
land jutting: into New York bay oft
Jersey City. The loss of life still was
problematical tonight. It will not be
determined definitely until there shall
be opportunity to check up the work
men eunployed on the island and on
boats moored nearby. Two are known
to le dead and at least two more are
inisf-ir.tr. Scores of l er.-r.s were inr
jured, some of them probatlv fatally.
Detonat'sns Heard In Five States.
The JiHofations, which were felt in
f:ve M;;.-y, i-c-an with a continuous
r. ;.rc- . f .s;n:i!l shells, then the
hi..1,. ; v inamios of dyna
mo-. IrhKi! clui no and other hi-h ex-
W'sives, f ilhiwed by the bursting of
U.usui:ds of sharpne! shell which lit
erally sr.r-.v.'red the surrounding coun
tiy and writers for many miles around.
Fire Followed Great Crash.
Fire that started soon after the first
jrreat w.ii which spread death and
desolatiu., iu it.; wake, destroye! thir
teen f the hutre warehouses of the
National Storaee company on Elaek
Tom island m which were stored mer
chandise vained between ?1L'.0imi.000
and SlOi1 O.Onu. The flames, shooting
to the clouds, were reflected apainst
New York 'shy line" of towerinpr of
fice buiidin-s, which only a few mo
ments b.-fore were shaken to their
foundations as by an enrthqnake.
Miles of strc t in Manhattan alone
were strewn with broken glass and
shattered sisrns.
Karlv reports of heavy loss ,-.f life
were impossible of verification r.nd the
authorities asserted the .lumber of
deaths would bo small. Tt was said
that owintr to the extent of the wreck
age it mi. '-'lit be several days before the
exact figures could be obtained.
Cause of Disastern Not Known.
The cause of the disaster had not
determined tonight. Officials of the
National Stornee Company and the
Lehiirh Valh-y Kailroad, which also
suffered heavily through loss of
property, declared, however, that re
ports to thorn shewed a fire had start
ed shortly .'ftr one o'clock this
morning- on a barre bolonetner to an
Independent towing company which
had been moored tlonpside a dock
used by the railroad eompanv to trans
fer ammunition shipments from trains
to vessels in the harbor. The barpe,
It was said, was there without authori
ty of either the. railroad or the ster
ner company. The company officials
srfused to disclose the name of the in
ippendent towirtc company, saylns?
they were investigating "to ascertain
whether the harrre purnoRely had been
set on fire as the result of a plot."
Warrants Issued for Arrests.
Warrants rhnrerins; manslaughter
wore issued for the- arrest of Albert
M. TMckman, atrent nt the Lllaek Tom
Island dock.s for the L:hlxh Valley
Railroad company; Theodore B. John
son, head of the Johnson lijjhterae
and Towing company and Alexander
Davidson, superintendent of tho Na
tional Storage company. They are ac
cused or having illegally permitted ox
plosives to be stored where- human
lifo was endangered.
Johnson's company had been en
caged, it was said, in lightering mu
nitions from tho docks to ships in the
harbor.
Statement by Lehigh Valley Road.
A statement issued this afternoon fry
the Lehigh Valley Kailroad company
after a conference between heads of all
departments hro, said:
"Thirteen brick storage warehouse
Dut of the twenty-four ownod and op
erated by tho National Storage Com
pany and six piers owned by the stor
age company and leased to the .Lehigh
Valley road were destroyed. Several
sthera of tho brick warehouses worn
badly damaged and some minor dam
age done to the IeTiish Valley grain
elevators. In addition as far aa is
known 83 loaded cars were destroyed.
Flro Started on Barge,
"According to the evidence obtained
ty official of the railroad company,
the flro started at l.M this morning in
L barjro bolonKinsr to an independent
lowing company which httd tieen moor,
;d alonsmldo tho railroad company's
lock PXpr'wsly iiffalnst orders,
M. T. Jlenley, nint senoml yartl
nustor for tho New York division of
die LeMffh Valley railroad, yaa en tTl8
ler when, tho fire Htttrtfsd, Be fsajrf
!bo exiiloHion, wiiteh tieeurrect st 2,0$,
iras In tho barge whem the flr start,
id.
CMr. JJealsy's first theuerht was te
laniov tif loaded cms on tttft n1sr
torn tha dtmisor tmm Be mA that.
then ho-rooiitt the enfl., of thaJep
BE DEAD; 2 MISSING
communicate itself to some of the
ears nearest the barge.
Two Long Cuts of Cars Removed.
"Two long- cuts of cars were suc
cessfully removed from the danger
zone before the rapidly spreading- tire
engulfed the balance.
"It has not as yet been definitely
determined just what the money loss
will be. Some 40,000 tons of raw su
par. valued at about $3,400,00, is
known to be lost. It is believed that
the other contents of the warehouses
destroyed will greatly increase this
amount. There were no explosives
stored in the warehouses and in only
two of the cars destroyed. These were
loaded with shrapnel, which would not
have been a source of danger but for
outside fire. The other cars destroyed
were loaded principally with salt and
pork.
Th scene of the explosion and fire
Is in no way adjacent to the main pas
senger and freight terminals of the
I.ehigh Valley railroad at either New
York or Xew Jersey and the mishap
will i.ot interfere with the operation
of business."
Chemical Warehouse Unharmed.
Edmund I,. Mackenzie, president of
the National Storage company, de
clared tonight that the plant of his
concern was valued at $7,000,000. while
the contents of the warehouses prob
ably were worth 510,000,000. One of
the warehouses which remains intact,
he said, is filled with chemicals. Be
sides the great quantity of raw sucrar
burned, there were 24,CO0 bales of to
bacco, much matting from China and
Japan and other merchandise. The
loss to his company and the railroad,
Mr. Mackenzie asserted, was partly
covered by insurance.
"As far as I have been able to ascer
tain tifter a personal investgation,"
said Mr. Mackenzie, "there apparently
has not been a great loss of life. This
undoubtedly was due to the fact that
few persons live in the immediate vi
cinity of our plant. There were, of
course, a number of private watch
men and firemen on the grounds at
the time but all of these except two
have been accounted for."
Loss of Life Unknown.
Mr. Mackenzie said it would be im
possible at this time to tell what loss
of life there had been, if anv, on
bargesh and small craft moored' near
the scene of the disaster. The Jersey
City police, co-operating with the New
York authorities, were busily engaged
tonight in a search.
The body of an unidentified young
man was recovered from the water.
Men Blown Hundreds of Feet.
Tho body of an unidentified young
man was recovered in the water off
the Lehigh Valley pier. A child in
Jersey City, according to the police,
died from shock following the first
of the explosions. Many men told
thrilling stories of having: been blown
hundreds of feet over land and water.
Sixty in Jersey City Hoapitaie.
Most of the sixty or more injured
taken to Jersey City hospitals were
struck by shrapnel, falling glass or
debris. Nearly all were in the rail
road yards or on craft moored near
the islands. Included amonsr thern are
a few women and children whosa
homes were on barg-es. Many other
persona in New York and jersey oities
suffered minor injuries from broken
glass.
Every window In the pedestal of
the Statue of Liberty, on Bedloo's Is
land, opposite Black Tom, was broken.
The main door, made of iron and
weighing nearly a ton, was blown off
lta hinges. The statue itself, how
ever, was not damaged, except from
the rain of shrapnel which bespattered
Cut By Frying Qlss,
A new warehouse cm the Island and
the quarters of the army officers and
sixty-seven soierioTs who guard, tha
statue were badly damaawJ. A num
ber of the man, na well as several wo.
ms, wives of tine officers, were cut
by flyinif srlftfl. but -news seriously,
Although tn Plant which fumishea
power for Pefliea'a Island was shaken
and partly put out of oommiHsign, the
famous "llB-fit ef liherry" Wned stead
lly throijehaut tha hours of contusion,
flamim? high B-btryp the pal of emolus
from the fire whtoh raged nearby.
Damage On flDa Uinnd.
ftariy resnrtfr ef' damage to tha
huildiT fffl ETllg psland were mumml
ated, SffrTJrdiflg re Oantatn A. B. fen:
snperviglnjr errsinfiw of federal bmid?
Jnjfs in Xew TfljJf, JTe paid the loss
would net eed I58,0(i0,
Meet or tm datuw i tfie immtera.
tfos etalfun' wfts effflspa vw th'e 'fares
waited ma vmtawBg- mi ftetterfed
mfi witn m-ranef frTwms
'BPerjp.' pf 'w?86??
A wtwmcipai
Cabled Paragraphs
8mallpox In Athens.
Athens, Greece, July SO. An epi
demic of Btnallpox at Athens tintl
Piraeus is asattmlner largo proportions.
Compulsory vaccination of ell inhabit
ants in the capital hag been ordered.
The scarcity of vaccine is causing inquietude.
lis Island employes from the other. An
explosion on one of the barges dam
aged the structure housing the power
plant.
Craft Afire Grounded.
Two other fire swept craft grounded
on the southwest corner of the island
which contains the contagious disease
hospital. The medical staff removed
the 450 immigrants on the island to
the battery.
Sailing Craft and Steamers Damaged.
Many small craft, as well as several
good sized steamers and sailing ves
sels, were badly damaged. Crews on
the big ocean liners anchored out in
the harbor, or docked along the New
Jersey water fronts declared that
when the first two great explosions oc
curred it appeared as if their ves
sels were literally picked up out of
the water and then hurled back.
All Within a Radius of 25 Miles Awak
ened. All New York and cities within a
radius of twenty-five miles were awak
ened by the explosions. Within an
hour 6.000 telephone calls went over
the police wires from excited inquir
ers. Hundreds of thousands of per
sons, many of them scantly clad, ran
excitedly' through the streets while
automobiles containing policemen, fire,
men and others, dashed madly about.
Detectives were rushed to Maiden
Lane, the home of the jewelry indus
try, to guard against thieves". Else
where, also, where broken glass was
strewn over the thoroughfares 'police
men were hurried to safeguard thus
exposed shattered windows and door
ways. Many Windows Were Broken.
In the downtown section so many
windows were broken that it was im
possible to assign policemen to every
damaged store and some of the men
each had entire blocks to guard.
Scarcely an office building from the
Battery to Fiftieth street escaped
damage. More than a score of per
sons, according to the police, were In
lured iji Manhattan and Brooklyn by
flying glass. Police Commissioner
Arthur Woods summoned any police
men from their training camp at Port
Wadsworth to aid in safeguarding the
financial district.
Thousands Fled to the Parks.
Thousands of persons in Jersey City
Red to the parks after the first ex
plosions. Panic-stricken women
wheeled baby carriages about, some of
thein pi-aying and others screaming as
(hoy went. Not until after dawn to
day was the scene changed from one
of great excitement and fear to calm
and apnarent self assurance. Then It
was "ih difficult v that, the police held
the crowds back from the scene of the
disaster.
Fire is Still Burning.
The fire on Black Tom Island still
raged tonieht. The large railroad
yards of the T.ehigh Valley and tho
reclaimed meadow land for mile.;;
around, virtually were covered with
shrapnel shells, many of which had
not exploded. Thousands of persons
who flocked there from New York.
Jersey City and elsewhere crowded on
lops of freight cars and watched hun
dreds of firemen st work amid tho
ruins of the vast warehouse system
through a haze of smoke and cinders.
Visitors Collect Souvenirs.
Many of the visitors carried away
shrapnel shells as souvenirs. In some
cases they had dug them from the
earth two or three miles away from the
scene of the explosions. In the rail
road yfds huge pices of steel were
found which apparently had been shot
through the air by the force of the
explosion.
DETECTIVE'S
BODY WAS
BLOWN TO ATOMS
While Aiding an Engine Crew to Save
Freight Cars.
New York, July 80. C. W. Leyden,
chief of the Lehigh Valley Railroad
police, was killed while aiding an en
gine crew in attempting to save a
number of freight cars from the fire.
A quantity of dynamite exploded
where he was standing, it was said,
and blew his body to atoms. The
members of the car crew escaped with
lacerations and burns.
Three army officers and a detail of
soldiers who started from Governor's
Island, headquarters of the depart
ment of the east, for the scene in a
small open boat lmd a narrow escape
from bursting shells and flaming mis
siles which fell upon the water as
torches from un Inferno,
The Lehigh Valley Kailroad tonight
sent a telegram to the bureau of safe
ty of the interstate commerce com
mission, Inviting cooperation in the
investigation as to the cause of the
explosions and fire. It was also an
nounced that Lieutenant Colonel Bev
erly W. Dunno, U. S. A., retired, said
to be nn authority on explosives, had
been retained to aid in the investiga
tion. Commissioner of Public Safety
Frank Hague of Jersey City was
among the first on tha scene and
Worked incessantly today in an effort
to determino the cause,
A tugboat tonight encountered a
schoonor, laden with shrapnel, adrift
in the outer bay, The craft, badly
burned, apparently had broken away
from one of the docks at Black Tom
Island. It was taken in tow by the
tugboat and moored in South Brook
lyn, CROPS IN GERMANY
REPORTED TO BE GOOD.
Win Simplify the Problem of Feeding
the People,
Berlin, Jrrty 88, p. ra,, via London,
July 90, ff.lf a, m.TsAlT' rep,rti from
aarrioulturaj districts are of & deeded iy
optimeitlct character and ereata te
rer.eraT fmnresedon tftat tfte problem
of feeding Germany' faring the next
twelve 'jnonthg will vs cteoioedly pagie
tfrtm fn ha. Mpt efF- 'oiMnlaB'lg
reinforced b'y the eros eonffitlens' If)
the peeHpied territory- which will be
ajf)le to contribute a tjuriflna atrnvs' the
wants of fJiVnatfrs' peculation" tm ex
pert to permawy, tphfrf will 'fce mpa
fcially- true "In W 'ffftpe Of doHrlad,
where if he Associate Pfs&'S eeirregpoij
dents" Cb'Mf fowrxj "BpUmflM "erppa
nearlng "barvestwliich Tia tieen plant
ed by (jejroan" trgppl on - a- extnffe"4
Em-m'mG peej iHraesf "wMlls
tsnmpfW tb"Battwa mattMlfm' flur
fcstt ptCT ftfaiBgfve jgf it3.
Movements feafHgWpB
Pelrogr Visited
by Piiagration
A RIVE'
OGE AND TWELVE
rEAMERS BURNED
SEVERAL OCEAN LINERS
Flaming Pontoons Drifted From Burn
ing Bridge Into - Fleet of Steamers
Police Suspect.lt is the Work of
Anarchists.
Berlin, July 30, Reports of a great
conflagration at Petrograd, in which
a bridge across the River Neva, twelve
large steamers, including several
trans -Atlantic liners, and the Putiloff
gun works and other establishments
were destroyed, are printed in the Lo
kal Anzieger.
Bridge Took Fire at Several Places.
On Tuesday the wooden palace
bridge across the Neva took fire at
several places. Immediately flaming
pontoons drifted to Vassili Ostrov
(Basil Island), where a huge Are broke
out and also to the port where twelve
large steamers, including several
trans-Atlantic liners, a floating dock,
the Putiloff works and other establish
ments took fire.
"The police suspect that the con
flagration was the work of anarchists
who planned to burn all public build
ing being used for military purposes."
Vassili Ostrov, or Basil Island, con
tains the most important insular sec
tion of the Russian capital. The part
of tho island facing the admiralty
quarters contains the Course, the
buildings of the University of Petro
grad and of the Academy of Sciences,
the Academy of Arts, the Mining In
stitute, the Zoological Garden and the
Semonoff gallery of paintings.
GERMAN REVIEW OF
TWO YEARS OF WAR,
Official Figures Given Relating to
Conquests.
Berlin, July 30 (By Wireless to Say
ville). The German government has
issued officially the figures relating to
the conquests at the end of the second
year of the war in a statement which
reads:
"The contra! powers occupied 431,000
square kilometres against 180,000 a
year ago. The enemy occupied in Eu
rope 2:1,000 square kilometres against
ll.ono a year ago.
"The central, powers, Bulgaria and
Turkey,- captured 2.65S.00O enemy sol
diers against 1,693,000. Of those taken
prisoner by the Germans, 5,947 officers
and 348,000 men were French, 9,019
officers and 1,202,000 men were Rus
sian and 917 officers and 20,000 men
were Bntisn.
"The war booty brought to Germany,
in addition to that utilized immediate
ly at the front, comprised 11,036 can
non, 4,700,000 shells, 3,430 machine
guns and l,55fi,000 rifles.
"According to the list of statistics
of German wounded soldiers, 90,2 per
cent, returned to the front, 1.4 per
cent, died; the rest were unfit for ser
vice or were released. The military
measures ot the central powers, in
consequence of vaccinations, were
never disturbed by epidemics."
FORMAL NOTIFICATION
TO HUGHES TONIGHT.
Preparations Completed Last Night by
Chairman Willcox.
Now York, July SO. Preperations
had been completed tonight by Wil
liam R. Willcox, chairman of tho re
publican national committee, and his
assistants for the formal notification
here tomorrow night of Charles E
Hughes that he has been nominated
as the republican candidate for presi
dent. The chairman returned this af
ternoon frm a week end conference
with the nominee at the latter's sum
mer home at Bridgehampton. He war;
accompanied for 30 miles of the way
in an automobile by Mr. Hughes, who
Will come to New York tomorrow
morning. The final draft of the candi
date's speech of acceptance was com
pleted Saturday night.
Prominent republicans from all parts
of the country were gathering here
tonight to attend the notification cere
monies at Carnegie hall. On tha plat'
form will be members of the notifica
tion committee, delegates and alter
nates to the national convention, chair
men of state committees, senators and
representatives. The only speakers
will be Mr. Hughes and Senator War
ren G. Harding, chairman of the noti
fioation committee. Theodore Roose
volt has announced that he will attend
and other former leaders of the pro
gressive party will occupy oozes.
FREIGHT CAR DERAILED
AT SAYBROOK JUNCTION.
Traffic on the Shore Line Was Tied Up
for Several Hours,
Baybrook Junction, Conn., July 80.-
Traffic on the Swore Line division of
the New York, New Haven and Hart
ford railroad wag tied up fpr several
hours this afternoon" by tfia derailment
of a freight car, No one was. injured.
A DECIDED t.ECREA8E"lN
FARAIVSIS EPTTSElQ
Thirteen Deaths andfi5 New Cases In
Greater Nevy York,
New York, July SOA fleeide4 de
crease Jn the Infantile ptwarysla epl
aernio Is thowT( ov tip-urea issued tsaay
povoripg the'twentvrfour hewrg ending
at 10 a, m Dunns ttj'psFlM there
were thirteenr ggattta ')j3 " '4 ew.
eases discover' llV Jhf"nyij boroughs
pf the olty, g compare wUh JC Seatha
aa ii nftv'eaea "during ftis peectsuiiig
gf hoftrsj,
M QTOR'OYCSftCefDJErTf"
AT MANCHESTER GREEN.,
Fred YarmeR. 13' ear" Taf 'Sas In,
geuth BfaneiieHe'BnB-, -SW-lfe
fct&jfflsr "liUieff tiJsisJii" "Ur MweWPSW
Hpse. 5BSn lis KMOTB3hQ
f anon raff mvm m snngs.-.mciQ
Towns Wiped Out
by Brush Fires
SERIOUS LOSS OF LlFfi RESULTS
IN NORTHERN ONTARIO.
100 - PERSONS PERISH
Forty-seven Eodles Found at Nushka
Station and 25 at Matheeon Relief
Train With Doctors and Coffins Sent
to the Afflicted District.
Toronto, Ont, July 30. Reports re
ceived from northern Ontario state
that the towns of Cochrane, ilatheson,
Nushka Station and Timmons have
been wiped out by disastrous bush
flres which started yesterday. Por
quois Junction and Iroquois Falls are
reported burning.
Serious Loss of Life.
Serious loss of life occurred and It
is believed at least 100 persons have
pensnea. .titty-seven bodies are re
ported found at Nushka Station and
twenty-five at Matheson. Many are
mjurea.
All Wires Down.
All wires are down north of Engel
hart and only meagre reports have so
rar teen received trom refugees.
Relief Train Sent.
A relief train, with doctors, has left
North Bay for the scene and Cobalt
has sent coffins.
Cochrane, in Nipissing County, is
tne largest or the twons ourned. It
had 1700 inhabitants. The other town,
named are in the same section in Ni
pissing or Sudbury Counties, within a
radius of zo miles or so. The popula
tion in each of these towns is com
posed of only a few hundred presons.
Relief Train Caught Fire.
Cobalt, Ont., July 30. A relief train
on which were physicians and nurses
and a large quantity of supplies,
caught lire several times on the "way
to the scene of the disaster tonight
and finally was halted north of Kn
glehart when the flames extended to
the long trestle bridge over Blanche
river.
LOSS OF LIFE PLACED
AT FROM 150 TO 200.
Scores Injured, Many of Whom It is
Thought Will Die.
Engiehart, Ont., July SO. Forest
fires raging in northern Ontario are
believed tonight to have resulted in
the loss of from 150 to 200 lives. Scores
or other persons have been injured and
it is thought many of them may die.
Engiehart, Ont., July 30. Several
small towns have been wiped out by
the flames, which have been raging for
4S nouns. Reports thus far received
show that 57 perished at ilushka, a
French Canadian settlement, and 34 at
Uathewson. Cochrane has 18 dead and
34 injured; Iroquois Falls 15 dead and
many injured, and Ramore 15 dead.
The number killed at Porcupine Junc
tion is not known, but the entire town
was destroyed except the railroad sta
tion. The death list will bo materially in
creased, it is feared, by victims in
outlying districts. There are apparent
ly well authenticated reports that
many prospectors have been trapped
at Tashota and Kowcash. One farmer
and his ten children are known to
have been burned while the man's wife
was vainly seeking aid to check the
onrushing flames sweeping through
grass and timber.
Nushka, a hamlet consisting of a
score of frame building's and stores,
suffered worst. It had been threatened
for several da3's, but the residents lin
gered in the hope they might save
their homes. They waited too long,
however, and walls of fire cut off es
cape in any direction.
A nearby lake in which they found
refuge saved many residents of Coch
rane on the line of the Temiskaming
and Northern Ontario railway. Only
two fitreets in the town were saved.
Thirty-four bodies are lying side bv
side on the platform of the railroad
station at Matheeon. The station and
two houses are the only buildings still
standing. Ramore, a small settlement,
Was wiped out.
The flames were checked at Tim
mons after 17 houses had been burned.
Only the sawmil. was destroyed at
South Porcupine,
AH that remains of Iroquois Falls
are the ruins of tho great paper mill
and one store.
Refugees without food or clothing
are pouring into the larger towns
south of the burned district, A large
number of them have arrived here and
are being sent to Cobalt and Haley
bury. Engiehart citizens worked all
of last night caring for the homeless
wanderers.
CANADIAN INFANTRY
RAID GERMAN TRENCHES
Official Announcement of British Com
mander in Chief,
London, July SO, 8,19 p, m PartieB
3f Canadian infantry last night suc
cessfully raided, (he German trenches
jn two places south of Tuvea, u was
officially announced, today hy Genera
lr ripuslas Itaig, the Pritjs.h. eora
mander-in-chjef in France, A similar
raid WftS par.rie4 out by' the Royal
MuRBter Fiiglltera in the Xreos gaiien
The German eadualUes m each ease,
the statement ttfWa, were eeveje, jfc
German f-orce eueceadefl in raiding p.
British front' trench neap iio.hen?'o)
lem redoubt,
PBITUARyT ' .I,:;;'.
Ell Jan" H. Miller, :
Hartford.. Gfinn jllls S0,W PtfJah. H.
Miller qf Bristol, ft vet in e manuf-aq-twe,
fie? in' ft local hospital' today,
fie miftevid." broken" bin fmm a fall
a elu.rt tijne ago, m : STiiiae waB Sf
Vfftrg "eld Vind iornvTiy "Wg engager
m'tfie ihanl! fasting of tey-'s,"&n.a nove
ties In ajer-iayfl f (jrr 4.T yerja. ReeentTy
RiTffipyea 1ft "Prifitei lYhere. fte. yefiia.--hS
wlnr Jiisf fWn, ivvff. Wtler:, e35tp'flj
the T-wmoj Tft-fiH,' Another. gti' la
Fr&npjs gtevfeljefHV&Hflei! "o Jyew Serfc
;ne .p-ayterrntir Bf ygftrs. Mio-was; raa?
;gc HifSRificj; jt am ut tiie iiristfin-iges,
tie. "was :p' piatpsniwod Taneeptr&'lie
Wl "fflret: geseendan - p ' tfia " ajlfera
wm" f&ttlefl m 'Baphuettr cm
Condensed Telegrams
The cieeks ef Greece trer advanced
gS'-iningtes;
TWrehiyiafx persons SieS ill CliicagD
asj a result ef the heati
Thd RsinU t4 Enaiand Bought
SyOSfl. fcdUnda. sterling bar goUL
Tha experts f bappet tot tile" week
elided-July 2T Mrete 1915 tons.
Two meH Wer kitted afid feight Itiluf
ed in a train Wreck nea.f Oreesea Pa,
Tha Panama Canal construction ana
fortification to flats nas cost $401,500,-
Two mow oases of Infantile paraly
sis were reported in New H&vefl Sun
day.
William. T. Rook of Oyster Bay, mil
lionaire motion picture producer, is
dead.
8ir P. A. Landry, chief juatloe of the
Supreme Court of New Brunswick, is
dead.
King George eigned a proclamation
fobidding the importation of cocaine,
into England.
Several hundred employee of the
Central Railroad of New Jersey
threatened to strike.
The Midvale Steel & Ordnance Co.
is now shipping 1,700 rifles a day to
British government.
Count Williamowitz-Moellendorf, a
conservative deputy in the Prussian
Upper House, is dead.
The Swedish Government has pro
hibited the export of all copper, nickel
and aluminum articles.
Corp. J. Whittall King, Battery B.
of Camden, N. J., died in the Calumet
hospital at Douglas, Ariz.
A meat famine for St. Louis was
threatened when employes of the
packing plants went on strike.
Ryland W. Phillips, of Philadelphia,
was elected president 01 tne fnoxog-
raphers' Association of America.
Mrs. Lewis M. Lewisohn, wife of
Adolph Lewisohn, died at her Kloeron
summer home after a lingering illness.
A. E. Carlton of Colorado Springs,
was elected president of the Crescent
Consolidated Gold Mining & Milling
Co.
The American Brake, Shoe & Fcun-
rlvir rr, V.q clnsjerl nn order nf f)Tinrov-
imately $22,400,000 for 9-inch shells for
Great Britain.
The garment workers' general strike
committee called out all foremen, cu t
ters and tailors from 409 shops of the
manufacturers.
The Spanish bark Juanito, more than
100 days out and given up for lost,
crossed the bar at the mouth of the
river at New Orleans.
Senator Shepard of Texas, leader of
the prohibition forces announced bis
definite decision not to push dry" leg
islation at this sesson.
Francisco Tocci, of New Jersey, died
in the Stumpf Memorial Hospital at
Kearney, N. J., from injuries received
in p.n automobile accident.
Chief Officer Huesti3 of the British
freight steamer Eskasoni, fell from the
top of the deackhead of lumber to the
main deck and broke his neck.
President Wilson sustained Maj.-
Gen. Wood in depriving Col. Louis D.
Conley of the command of tie CPth
Regiment, for physical disability.
A campaign to curb the practice of
watering milk has been insttuted by
the agricultural bureau of Attorney
General "Woodbury's office at Albany.
President Poincare of France and
Emperor Nicholas of Russia exchanged
telegrams of congratulations on the
capture by the Russians of the Turk
ish fortress of Erzingan.
Attorney-General Farrar announced
that all cases against miners in the
northern and southern Colorado coal
fields, growing out of the riots during
the strike of 1914, would be dismissed.
Banks of Southern Wisconsin de
siring to be transferred from the Min
neapolis to the Chicago Federal Re
serve district will be given a heai-inff by
the Federal Reserve Board on August
Two pnlnera were killed and eight
others injured when mine cars on
Which they were riding to the work
ings of the Pennsylvana Coal & Coke
Company at Cresson, Pa,, were wreck
ed. A s'rl who was found sleeping on a
park bench at Buffalo two weeks ago
was identified la Esther Vfoose of Trey,
N, Y,, for whom a country-wtde search
was made following her disappearance
fast January,
The naval yapht Mayflower with the
president and. Mrs, Wilson on board,
left Hampton Roads at noon today t
complete, her week-rend cruise by a
jeiiaurely trip up the Potomao to
Washington,
Frederick D, Underweed, pile. Ra?l
poad president, just missing1 death, on a
ferrybflat, was a&an saved later ip the
day when ft landslide near Handsome,
pi, Pa,, fell en the track ahead, of tils'
special' train,
geaenoV Ueutenant 8, H, Whee'?n, Pf
the arniY "vatlon schoql at North la
Jand, lost control of his aeroplane at
Cntarin, Ppt pud crasheS ntQ a line
ef autwnabnes, pverturnlng four ap.q
knijpg ira.rolt "Rppbe,
pertranf! Fss$nf, who recently was
ftnec( fop' issuing; pamphlets criticising
iVie manner; In. which, ttye Government
jr,',atfc! fnsr;Sottlo.us phieetorg tfl tnil-.
(tars?" ffervpi, baa" beeiV" refused $ "pass
fmrf tfl"Tisi.t Ajnic
Warrte$ ltveBn'n.ec.ion with, the rmrr-def-"
of Tawf 'phetlea, in Havm
gfom Mtr 4wa' ifcrfafir iaf teitaM
pBlguaietv; tnef-fi, ' w-er-e; bwishl
uiere lemgus
-from pverett. af&ss'.,
wnero they
e,raer;"r
mi Aix. Jhertco
armancTTTlle.
Easit fraiibs pan.," JulS 3u. John
Spnain "af fflhan(i -tffe kiiled; last
fgSM when Ms bicycle crshlid into"an
a-utprop-biie; feh?eT-"y Aug'ustLeatider
British and French Forces Have Apln Launehad
Violent Attacks in the Somme Sector
FRENCH TAKE TRENCHES
British Have Made an Advance on the Entire Line From Del
wood Wood to the Somme Russians Have Made Pro
gress Against Foe in the Region of the Siokhod River'
Rome Reports a Gain of Ground by the Italians Against
the Austrians in the Tonezza Plateau and in the Tofano
Region The Turks Have Been Driven Out of Strong
Positions by the Russians Operating Towards Sivas and
Near Khaputu
The British and French forces
fighting against the Germans in the
Somme region of France have again
launched violent attacks and made
good progress against their foe, while
the Russians in Volhynia, in the re
gion of Stokhod river, have forced the
Germans to give further ground be
fore their advance.
To the north of the Somme trenches
between Hill 139 and the river near
Hardecourt have been captured by the
French on a depth from 800 to 8j0
metres, and In addition the French
have pressed forward to the outskirts
of the vtllage of Maurepas, east, of
Hardecourt, and also captured posi
tions north of Hem, which lies to the
south of Maurepas, and held them
against violent German counter-attacks.
Driving with the French on their
right flank from -DeiviUe wood to the
Somme, the British made an advance
on the entire line and also made fur
ther progress against the Germans
east of Waterlot farm, Trones wood
and Maltzorn farm. To the north,
CAR TRAFFIC TIED UP
IN GREATER NEW YORK.
Not a Wheel is Turning on the Third
Avenue Line.
New York, July SO. CsTot a wheel
moved after i o'clock this afternoon on
the lines in Manhattan of the Third
Avenue Railway company, 96 per cent,
of whose motormen and conductors
were said by union organizers to have
loined the strike, which originated in
Yonkers, spread quickly to the Bronx
and is now designed to paralyze all
surface car traffic in New York. 'Only
a few cars were operated In Broadway
above 42d street, and traffic was inter
mittent on several crosstown lines.
"VV. D. Mason, president of the Amal
gamated Association of Street and
Electric Railway Employes, with a
dozen organizers, held frequent meet
ings during the day with the strikers.
"Missionaries" boarded cars in all
parts of Manhattan in an effort to in
duce the crews to strike. They re
ported considerable success.
Obstructions were placed on the
tracks of the Third avenuo system at
several points to interfere with the
operation of cars by strikebreakers and
a few ears were stoned, but the disor
der resulting from the strike was not
of a serious nature.
Tonight and during the early morn
ing hours owners of all kinds of con
veyances did a thriving business trans
porting throngs of pleasure seekers on
their way to Sunday outings at nearby
resorts.
DEUTSCHLAND STILL
REMAINS AT HER PIER.
Engines and Submerging Machinery
Are in Perfect Working Order,
Baltimore, Jld July SO. Although
the German submarine Deutschland
6till was at her pier here tonight, de
velopments during . the last 2-1 hours
indicated, the intention of Capt, Taul
Koenig-, her commander, to leave in a
short time.
It was learned today that when the
United States revenue cutter Apache
anchored a short distance from the
Peutsehland's slip late yesterday after
noon the Apache's, commander was
asked, by officials who are looking af
ter the submarine's Intents if he
pould convoy the Deutschland to the
three mile limit off the capes.
The officials were referred to the
nayy department. Today the Apaohe'a
commander said h,a had received, no
orders to convoy the' submarine and
had no official interest In her,
It can be said on good authority that
the engines and submerging machinery
of the Deutschland are in perfect con
dition and that the vessel's departure
is pot delayed y ftny trouble aboard
her,
GENERAL CARRAN2A
ABOUT TO RETIRE.
First Chief is to Pe Succeeded by
General Pablo Gonzales.
Laredo, fex., July &0. Venustiane,
farranza jg q retire as first chief pf
the da fact- government of Mexico at
aq early date aui will be succeeded by
peper-aV Pablo Gonzales, according to.
information gwn put "jv Mexican 'aU
fninistrati re "circles' in, Nevtvo, laxedo
onight-.
13 CHINESE ARRESTEp
IN NEW -HAYE$
Eojice Raided Gambling Joint Found
Guardf flgleep.
. Kew- 3aen. fSpn.rvi.ly 3u.Eight
9et 0hinese wrearrestecl'Si the b.ase
Igeni "Pf ft" 'poster 1 street" Tse,"
Charged "ff'tlt jfamtalOTg. " i uards;1 "Tjvhd
had "been, ' gttKined -pu'tsicTe' "of the
bflilding wre raundi asleep and the
police1 smfis.he'3 tn the doors. A large
IN VICINITY. OF HILL 133
around Ypres, the Canadians raided
German trenches, while, the Royal
Jlunster Fusiliers on the Loos salient
carried out a similar operation. The
Germans raided a front line British
trench nea.r the Hohenzollern redoubt,
but later were driven back.
In the fighting between the Germans,
and the Prussians in Volhynia the men
at various points again met in hand-to-hand
combats, lierlin says that tha
withdrawal from tha Stokhod curve
had been contemplated for some time
and was made without interruption byj
the Russians.
Although Petrograd claims an ad-;
Vance for the Prussians near Brody and
south of the Dniester in Galicia, both,
Berlin and Vienna assert that the Teu-i
tonic allies repulsed all attacks.
Rome reports a gain of ground for
the Italians against the Austrians on
the Tonezza platea-u, north of Monte.
Cimone, and in the Tofano region.
Tho Turks have been driven out from,
a series of strong positions by the;
Russians operating towards Sivas and;
near Kharput. according to Petro-'
grad.
TO TAKE
ACTION ON
CHILD LABOR LAW !
Measure Will be Taken Up in the
Senate This Week.
"Washington, July SO. (President!
Wilson having won his fight for ac-i
tion before adjournment of congress ;
on the bill to prevent interstate com- j
merce in the products of child labor, j
the senate will take up the measure)
this week with an interesting struggle j
over it in prospect. j
Passage of the bill is a foregone J
conclusion, but it will be opposed
stubbornly by a group of southern
democrats and an attempt will ba'
made by Senator Borah, aided byj
southern democrats to couple with it
the immigration bill which the demo-;
cratic caucus determined to put overl
until next session. I
Senator Robinson, who reported thej
bill from the commerce committee, '
hopes to get it before the senate byj
Tuesday. As it .passed the. house the!
measure provides: j
"That no producer, manufacturer crj
dealer shall ship or deliver for shtp-J
ment in interst ate or foreign com-1
merce the product of any mine ori
quarry in the United States in which'
prior to the removal of the product
children under IS years of age have
been employed, or the product of any:
mill, cannery, workshop, factory or'
manufacturing establishment In 'whichi
thirty days rior to removal nt suchi
product therefrom children under 14
have been employed, or in which, ch.il-j
dren between 1-i and 16 havebeen, em-'
ployed more than eight hours a. dsiy,
more tJhan six days a. week or before
6 a. m. and after 7 p. m,' .j
QUARREL' OVER GIN !
RESULTED IN MURDER. '
A Fiat Fight With Fatal Termination1
at BtQomfieid, Conn,
Bloomftekl, Conn,, July- SO, A. Sat;
fight, fallowing a quarrel ever- at pint'
Dottle or gin, endeii in murder early
today at the farmhouse of James; Jnab
When John C;trtvi 55 yeai-a old, &
blacksmith, struck- Frank MciSfutty so
hard that death restated. Both men
were said to have been under- th tn
riuenco of li'tuor, Carter- was found;
wandering around tne room ;n a a?d
condition, but resisted arrest-. He wa
removed to the lockup, where, it i eald
he made a Written confesslort, Aa
topssy disclosed that McNAtfty's; etA'
Was due to hemorrhage 0f ths bran.,
Beth men were employed 0Jt tha
farm. They went to -Hartford, last
night and returned late. Carter- c-laima
that aiojsTuHy stole hia bottle f ilauea?:
and the quarrel with its; fatal ending
PRESENCE: OF SHARKS, .j
, (N NARRAGAN3E.TT SAY,;
Captain of 3 pishing gchoonep Rapectsi
Rapture of Twelve, i
SfewpoTt, B. f uly SlXihe Bre;;
ence of sharks in unusually larwa!
number in arragapsett bay' w-as,
parted today by the captain,
fishing, schooner, 'inona, fhicl ca.
ture& twelve large specimejis, in iish,
tran ufic amesUwfl. The shares," -were
subdued with heivy grappling, hnoka
fter. ji. hard. gW'anl Wfi'hrtej
ftp.oa.Fd. aid drpssed. f x- Se niaa-ket, t
SjlDjEgAR BROKE .A.WA.Y
f RQ'i OTOR3V-tEj
ppanlc' North ?f fejfnR, Mass, Wa;
Killed; as a Result. ,
BeaSjqy:, Sf ass..
dr-UT'" of.-" Xd'jiH was
kidg . S;Q8teydas
s a mGtQrec1&
Wen" "si4ev 'o
Ml f P V. Hz'4-l-KlTTl or lTiL-.o on.-otr j.,..
yv-xzn "..v:v '.?vjr.vi?v,i? teams!
ims-him t lose control pfrtha liiaGhuia.;
gm'SfUlcC ;waa -ft-remmt543arf
.8o. wJas iai
