'FINANCIAL EDITION
Queuing
ttrttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
,
VOL. H.-NO. 274
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, JULY 31, 1016.
CortwonT, 1018, r tnt Pcstio Lzson Counter.
PIHOE OKE CENT
0s.
An
I. A
CAUSE OF NEW YORK BLAST,
WITH ITS TOLL OF MILLIONS,
SOUGHT; GERMAN PLOT SEEN
i
Allies' Munitions Wrecked in Terrific
Explosion on Black Tom Island, Off
Jersey City Fire Started
From Barge
Storage and Railroad Officials Arrested on Manslaughter
Charge Thousands Look on as Debris is Scat
tered on Broadway Shock Felt
for Miles
WASHINGTON, July 31. A fire of unknown origin on one of the ammuni
ttonboaring lighters caused the explosion yesterday at Black Tom Peninsula in
Now York harbor, according to word received here thin nfternoon. Chief A.
Bruce Ulclnskl, of the Burenu of Investigation of Ihc Department of Jimticc,,
announced that n preliminary report from Captain William Offley, in charge of
tho bureau's New York office, stated that it had been determined that n fire
on one of the lighters first ignited the explosives. He added that it had not yet
determined what caused the fire. There is no evidence, Chief Blciaski stated,
that incendiarism was to blame.
NEW YORK, July 31. With four investigations under way, it is expected
that by night marked progress will be made in placing responsibility for the
oxplosion at Black Tom Islnnd which caused damage estimated nt from $20,
000,000 to $30,000,000, is known to have killed three persons, fatally injured
one, and is believed to have resulted in the death of twelvo more, still missing
more than 36 hours after the terrific blast.
The Jersey City, tho State nnd Federal authorities and the Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company ore conducting the investigations.
In many quarters there is suspicion of a German plot, since a great portion
of the loss was war munitions consigned to tho Allies. Added to this fact was
the unlawful presence of n tup Saturday night which tied to the wharf a barge
loaded with high explosives, placing tho cargo in close proximity to carloads of
other explosives.
The chief objective of all investigations was the tying up off this craft be
longing to an independent company to n Lehigh Valley dock. It was aboard this
barge that one of the two mnjor explosions occurred, whether the first or second
Etill is undecided. It was charged today the barge was tied up against specific
orders.
However, investigators have as yet found nothing which substantiates the
suspicion of a plot
other explosives. The fire is believed to have started on tho barge. However,
Investigators hnvo as yet found nothing which substantiates the suspicion of
a plot
Three Officials Charged With Manslaughter
Already a charge of manslaughter has been lodged against three men.
They are accused of criminal negligence. Other arrests are expected. The
accused men nre:
THEODORE B. JOHNSON, president of the Johnson Lighterage Company and
aTcsident or Urooklyn.
ALtiERT M. DICKMAN, Jersey, City, agent of the Lehigh Valley Railway
at tho Black Tom Island pier.
ALEXANDER DAVIDSON, Jersey City, superintendent of the National
Storage Company's warehouses on the pier.
Davidson and Dickman wero held afte ra preliminary Rearing pending
farther investigation.
These three men are specifically chnrged with causing the death of Cornelius
Leyden, captain of the Lehigh Valley police. Leydcn was last seen standing
near the warehouse on the pier a few moments before the first great explosion
that was felt 158 miles away from New York. His body has not been recovered,
but tho authorities believo it will bo found under the ruins of the wnrohouse.
The warrants allege that Johnson and Davidson permitted the skipper of
one of Johnson's barges to tie up to the pier with a cargo of dangerous explosives.
Dickman is accused of allowing cars containing 3000 boxes of high explosivrj
to tho placed on the railroad siding at the pier in such a position as to be likely to
catch fire and explode. Dickman and Davidson were arrested shortly after the
warrants -were issued.
Commissioner of Public Safety Frank Hague, of Jersey City, declared that
the blame for the explosions could be laid at the door of the Lehigh Valley Rail
way, the National Storage Company and the Johnson Lighterage Company.
DEAD AND INJURED.
The list of known read, missing and In
jured Is:
CORNELIUS LETTJEN. chief of the Lehlih
Valley police department.
AJlTJIUit TOSSOK. 3W.month-o!d child of Sire.
Margaret Toiaon. 87 Central avenue. Jereey
City; thrown from hie bed by the explosion
and died from ihock.
Unidentified man. about 22 yeara old B feet 10
Inches, light brown hair: wore black trouaera
and a whlteandpurple ahlrt. with the laundry
mark 7685: picked up by the New York police
off the Lehigh Valley pier near Communlpaw.
THE MISSING.
Craw of bargea that were destroyed and
auardi la the mploy of tne Dougherty Do
tectlv Agency,
' FATALI.T INJUItED.
JAMES DOUailKRTY. patrolman of the Jersey
City police department.
Continued an Fage Two, Column Three
THE WEATHER
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Based on a neu discovery in solar physics by
WILLIS L. fcsSoSB and W, F. OAROTHHR8
Bunday jKgust 0; Monday, August r
The week toill XtP'n generally fair, with
moderate temperatures, rising,
Tuesday, August I; Wednesday, August
P; Thursday, August 10 There will be
showers Tuesday and Wednesday, and it
taitl fair up ' by Thursday, with very
slightly cooler temperatures from Jfo. O,
Friday, August 111 Saturday, August It
Showers ara probable Friday, with warm
temperatures, but it will fair up Saturday,
tslth a check in the rise of temperature
from Ho, K.
General Weather Movements Due,
Cool movement it due to develop in
northwest United States August 8, It will
lr a moderate movement, causing general
showers in the northern tier of States,
with little change elsewhere.
Another movement due August to will
bring light showers and considerably
coaler weather In the northern half of the
country.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinityGen
erally ploudy unsettled, and warm to
flight qd Tuesday; gentle, -westerly
winds, . ,
HIE TCKATIIER.
I.KNGTH OF DAY,
Sua rises 43T a m. Moon rises. . T10 m.
Bun tela 7 15 p.m I Moon souths 1:1ft p.m.
DELAWARE KIVKB TIDB CHANGES.
CHESTNUT BTHEBT.
High water Ml a m. I High water.. 2 JO p.rn.
Low water . V:42 a-m I Low uatr.. u J3 p m.
T uTuiliu l-'l II 21 31 41 5
Yh T ra r re t not oi ) 03 1 03 1 02 1 1
10ST AND FOUND
JJIU.VEL1N0 !UC. tan Initials II A D.. on
Baltimore subway ear No. 31, reward If
returned to 443t iiajtlmore ate.
- l ' ' a " " ' ' ' ' ' i ii i i n j i ,ni.
PARALYSIS KILLS TWO
MORE; EIGHT CHILDREN
DEAD THIS SUMMER
Forty-two Cases Since January 1,
Majority Occurring in July.
Admit Adults .Carry
Germs
DANGER IN SAND PITS
Deaths and Cases From Child
Paralysis Here and in N. Y,
IXaths in rnlladelpbia today,,..
: !
, 7
:'4i
. n
,m
, 33
New enees In 1'hlladeliihla
Total deaths I
louar
Deaths during Jut
n 1'
I'nuaueipnu,
iou:
t during Jul....,,. ..,,,,,. .
In Philadelphia In ioia ! ..
In Philadelphia in July' ."..
rates
TaiM
New caee In Ntate nntstde
Deaths in mate out
BIUI
city today,.
new rases in a
jjeains in ;ew
lork today
,...
Belief that germs of poliomyelitis may be
transmitted through Band In the children's
playgrounds, Induced Director Krusen, of
the Department of Health and Sanitation,
to request of the Hoard of Recreation to
disinfect the sand pits every day.
Director Krusen believes that children
carrying: the paralysis germs may leave
them In the sand where other children play
ing may become Infected. It Is known that
several cases may be traced to Hunting
Park, where children play In the sand pits.
Two Infantile paralysis deaths were
added to the list this morning, and one
pew case reported, making eight deaths
fron-H3 caBea this summer.
Those who died today are:
James Rellly, 3, 3920 North Darlen
street
Marie Miller, 3 months old, 3103
Wendla street.
The new case of Illness today a :
Virginia Kline, 3, 380S North Mar
shall street
There was one death yesterday; Isadore
Nlerenvert. SO months old, 301 South FourUi
street He was one of Saturday's victims
Continue! aa fags TUrttea, Caiman Tn
SHELLS HURLED
.rtfST""'
Thoto by Underwood Undorwood.
This girl picked up these missiles a mile and a half from tho scone of
the disaster in New York bay. Souvenir hunters quickly overran the
Jersey meadows, on which fell hundreds of shrnpnel shells.
TWO CAVALRYMEN,
FIVE BANDITS DIE
IN BORDER CLASH
Eighth U. S. Troops in Run
ning Fight With Mex
icans in Texas
ONE AMERICAN WOUNDED
Till PASO, Tex., July 31. Two Ameri
cans were killed In a clash between a de
tachment of Troop F, Klghth United States
Cavalry, and a party of Mexican bandits
nt the Sanchez ranch, one nnd a half
miles below Fort Hancock, Texas, at 5:30
a. m, today.
Five of the Mexicans, nearly half of tho
band, wero killed In the running fight that
followed the bandits' reslstanco to nrrest.
Threo troops of cavalry, ordered from
Fort Bliss to pursue the escaped bandits,
were afterward held back. Pursuit of the
bandits across the lino Into Mexico was
contemplated for a time.
Robert Wood, customs mr ' or with the
cavnlry patrol, was one of u first to be
killed In the engagement, l'rivato John J.
Twomey also was killed and Sergeant Louis
Thompson was wounded.
Captain H. B. Cushlng, of the Eighth
Massachusetts Infantry, made an official
report of the fight to General Bell at Fort
Bliss. Cushlng Is ranking officer In the
Fort Hancock district. However, no Na
tional Guardsmen participated In the clash.
Tho Americans killed were Private John
J. Twomey, of Troop F, and Customs In
spector Robert Wood.
Seigeant Lewis Thompson, also of Troop
F, wna wounded.
Legallsta leaders, plotting the overthrow
of the de facto Government of Mexico, de
clared today that Carranza was making
efforts to buy them with bribes and offers
of high positions. The I.egallsta leaders
assert that the First Chief fears the rapid
growth of the now revolutionary party.
To two of their number Carranza Is said
to have offered positions as Governors o'
Mexican States. To others. It Is said, he
offered high Federal orilces In Mexico City,
The Legallstas Bay Carranza's power Is
fast ebbing, basing part of their claims even
rn yesterday's bullfight in Juarez. It was
the first bullfight held in Mexico since Car
ranza took the leadership. Carranza Is
known to be violently opposed to the sport
and Issued a decree against It at the same
time he put the ban on gambling and
cockfightlng.
Ills attitude has not changed. But the
permission of the Juarez bull fight came
from General Jacinto Trevlno, commander
of the de facto army of the north and re
ported mutineer against the commands ,of
Carranza. It was taken by the Legallstas
as ap Indication that Trevlno was able to
do. as he pleased In ChlhiTahua and the
north of Mexico, at any rate.
Took Employer's Jewels, Is Charge
Accused of the theft of jewelry valued at
$250, Max Ozer, 27 years old, who says he
lives In this city, was today held under $500
ball for court by Kecorder Stackhouse In
Camden. Ozer, It is alleged, stole the
Jewelry from the overcoat pocket of Samuel
Grossman, ho conducted a jewelry store
at Elghtth and Mt. Vernon streets until
recently. Grossman employed Ozer to move
his effects to Camden, and It was while (he
goods were in transit that they are alleged
to have been stolen Cash amounting to
100 was left undisturbed in the same coat.
Hoodoo motorcyclist Injured Seriously
REAPING, Pa., July 31 While demoni
strating a motorcycle which he was about
to sell becauso he considered It a hoodoo
for him because of numerous accidents,
Bernard Kutz. of Becbtelsville. Bucks
County, collided with another machine and
sustained a fractured skull A similar ac
cident some months ago had deprived bin
of his hearcg.
BY BIG EXPLOSION
BRITISH TROOPS
MARE NEW GAINS
ON SOMME LINE
English Advance at Several
Points North of Bazen- .
tin-le-Petit
TEUTON ATTACKS HALTED
New gains for tho British forces on
tho Somme-front wcrcreported by Sir
Douglas Haig, British commander-in-chief,
today. The gains were made in
local encounters at points north of
Bazentln-lc-Pctit. .
The repulse of fierce German counter
attacks by tho French north of the
Sommc, in the Peronne sector, was re
ported by the Paris War Office todny.
Acting in concert, the British and
French forces attacked together yes
terday and ns a result of their co
operation both made valuable gains.
General Haig reported that the enemy
"must have suffered heavily," while the
French night communique implied the
same when it announced that the
ground gained was held ngainst power
ful German counter-attacks.
Tho fjghtjng was at tho point where
tho British right rests against tho
French left, with the Somme between.
Tho British attacked in a sector be
tween tho Delville wood and the Somme
and after a heavy engagement, were
able to move eastward beyond Waterlot
farm and Tronea wood, which, like Del-
Continued on I'me Tno, Column Fire
HEAT AND HUMIDITY HACK
Temperature Up Eight Degrees in an
Hour Wave May Not
Last Long
Heat and humidity returned to the city
today. The humidity that saturated the air
this morning was 15 per cent aboe normal
and the temperature rose from 76 at S
o'clock to 93 at noon. The mercury Jumped
three degrees In the first hour, three degrees
In the second and eight degrees the third.
According to the Government weather
experts, the new heat wae starting now
Is due to a high area hlcli formed In the
north and Is moving southeast off the
Atlantic seaboard. This area was follow
ing closely on the heels of the "Ber
muda high." which caused the recent hot
spell, but a mass of cool atmosphere came
betneen Jhe two areas, drhlng the "Ber
muda" out to sea and halting the "north
ern" for a few days. Permanent relief
from the new area will not come untl it,
too. moves away from the coast.
It was predicted that the weather will
be cloudy, unsettled and warmer tonight
and tomorrow, perbapi relieved some by
very gentle' westerly winds. iThe coolest
temperature last night was 73 degrees.
WILL AVENGE FRYATT DEATH
Asquith Tells Commons Guilty Ones
Will tfe Punished
LONDON, July 31 Premier Asquith
announced today that immediate action will
be taken by the Government relative to the
execution of Captain Charles Fryatt, of the
British steamship Brussels, by the Ger
mans. "The Fryatt case will not go unpun
ished," said the Premier. He added that
whoeer the criminals were they would be
brought to Justice, However. It might be,
Mr Asquith declared, that the men who
authorized the system allowing such
crimes may be the most guilty of all.
Heat Stroke Fstal to Kehler Han
LANCASTER, Pa.. July 31 John Mu.
stlman, 68 years old. of Kebltr, died last
night from the effects of a recent heat
stroke.
Q'UICK. NEWS I'
NATIONAL LEAGUE
j
.CINCINNATI, 1st g.O 0000003 0 3,11 2
BROOKLYN O 41 30000 X- 8 13 1
Toney and Clarke; Smith and McCarthy.
ST.LOUIS... 2 0 0 0 0 2 -
BOSTON, 1st g O 0 O 1 2 O
Dwik and Gonzalea; Barnes and Gowdy.
PITTSBURGH 0 OOOOO
NEW YORK, 1st g.. 2 0 0 0 0 4 - ,
Millor aud Schmidt; Sallee and Karldeu. '
BLISS COMPLETES EXAMINATION OF BORDER CAMFS '
WASHINC3TON, July 31. General BHss, who Is inspecting mili
tia enmps on tlio border, -wired the War Department todny that he had
completed examination of camps nt Columbus, N. M. The health of
tho Second Massachusetts Infantry, stationed there, is excellent, he
reported, but their camp is to bo moved a mile and a half from Colum-'
bus in order to get a better water supply.
PRESIDENT'TO ATTEND OHIO DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION
WASHINGTON. July 31. President Wilson this afternoon
promised Senator Pomerene, of Ohio, that he would attend the Demo
cratic State convention to be held in Columbus some time befo're
August 30. Tho convention adjourned last spring to meet again at
the call of Senator Pomerene, who was chairman. "'
WOMAN HELD FOR DEATH OF MAN HURT IN FIGHT
Rebecca Kldcr, of 1910 North Tenth street, wns committed to tho county prlton
by-Magistrate Meclcnry, nt tho Central Station, this mornlnff to await the action of
the Grand Jury In connection with tho death of William OsIIJjm, 45 years old, nt
St. Joseph's Hospital last night, following a fight at the '.tiftyi street house, in
which Mrs. Elder Is said (o have thrown him down stairs. CoUIns'n skull waa frac
tured. ,
AUSTRIAN RULER CRITICALLY ILL; HEIR CALLED
LON'KONV July 31. Cmperor Francis Joseph's condition hna become bo critical
that Ajrchduko Karl, heir to tho Austria throne, has been called to the aged mon.
areh'a bedside, according to a "Vienna dispatch Issued by the Exchange Telegraph
Company today.
SWIFT COMPANY TO GIVE MILLIONS IN PENSIONS
CHICAGO, July 31. Announcement wan mado today by Swift & Co. of a plan
to pension employes. A fund of $2,000,000 , has been accumulated and there will
be added annually to this $400,000. Tho employes contrlbutp nothing. More than
30,000 workmen are directly benefited. Persons employed 25 years or who rench the
ago limit of 63 will bo pensioned. No pension will be less than $240 a year and none
greater than $5000. ,
BRITISH PRIZE COURT CONDEMNS NEUTRAL CARGOES
LONDON', July 31. The British prize court today condemned 3000 bags of
coffeo and 14,665 barrels of oil shipped from America atnd Intercepted by English
naval forces. Tho coffee was part of tho cargoes of tho Swedish dteamshlps In
(Manic and Sydland. The oil was on board a Swedish vessel and was consigned to
tho American consular agent at Malmoe,
LAFEAN QUITS TWO CONGRESS TICKETS
HARniSBUnG, July 31. Daniel F. Lafean, York, today filed papers with
drawing his name as a candidate, for Congress on the Roosevelt Progressive and
Personal Liberty tickets. Frank W. Moore withdrew as a candidate for the House
on the Progressive ticket in Bradford Couhty.
FRANKLIN REFINERY CLOSES AFTER 4 MONTHS WORK
The Franklin Sugar Refinery, Bnlnbrldge street and Delaware avenue, has shut
down again after four months' activity followllng a 20-year period of Idleness.
Workmen say tho shutdown will be permanent, although It was announced by
ofllclals as temporary, being due to "trade conditions."
SWARM OF MOSQUITOES BLOWS IN WITH LAND BREEZE
Mosquitoes, it seemed millions of them, were swept into the city last night by
a stiff land breeze that blew westerly to southwesterly. It was their first whole
sale visit this season. The yeatherman says they will remain until the wind shifts.
HEAT KILLS 267 IN CHICAGO; COOL WAVE PROMISED
CHICAGO, July 31. Cooler weather was In sight for the Middle West today
after another day of record-scorching heat. A cool wave, according to the Weather
Bureau, will hit this section tonight Death's toll In Chicago yesterday from the
heat was 117. This makes a total of 267 deaths from heat In the last four days.
Ninety-nine babies have died since Friday night, A temperature of 101.7 was
recorded In Chicago, a record since 1901, when the mercury registered 102.9 degrees,
200 DEAD AS FOREST FIRE SWEEPS ONTARIO TOWNS
ENGLEHART, Ont., July 31. Forest Urea which for several days have been
threatening the northernmost towns and the outlying settlements of northern On
tario today and yesterday culminated In a holocaust which has wiped out entire
communities, licked up thex fringe of larger towns and levied a death toll which
cannot at present be accurately computed, but which may range from 140 to 200,
with scores of persons suffering from Injuries and many likely to succumb A
heavy rainstorm has stopped further disaster.
THREE SHIPS, ONE NEUTRAL, SUNK, LLOYD'S ANNOUNCES
LONDON, July 31. The destruction of anqther neutral vessel, as well as a
belligerent steamship, waa announced today by Lloyd's, The ships sunk; were the
Norwegian steamship Mars and the British steamship Claudia. The Claudia .dis
placed 1144 tons. She waa built In 1897 and her home port was Stockton. Maritime
records list two Norwegian steamships named Mars. Both are comparatively small
vessels. A later dispatch to Lloyd's also reported the sinking of tho Italian vessel
Bamnola.
'MURDER LEAGUE" FORMED TO BRING KAISER TO TRIAL
LONDON, July 31. "The Murder League of Britons" has been organised. In
Liverpool as one manifestation of the general Indignation over the execution of
Captain Fryatt. The object of the league is to-brlmr the Kaiser to trial for this
and other murders violating the law of nations.
ARMORIES BEGIN RECRUITING AGAIN
National Guard armories wero reopened for recruiting today to nil up the gaps
In the ranks and bring the organization to full war strength, as required by the new
Hay-Chamberlln army reorganization act. Major Hess and Captain Kensall are in
charge of the First Regiment Armory. Captain W MccW Is In charge of the
Second and Major 'Charles J. Headier and Major J. F. Snelt are in charge of th
Third Regiment Armory, Few applications were received up to I o'cock.
-t-
ACCUSED COP DID
NOT SHIELD VICE,
EX-CONVICT SAYS
"Chink" Schwartz's Testi
mony Discredited by Ten
derloin Resident
PORTER SUES' ROTAN
High Points in Grand
Juru'8 Probe of Vice
OAMUEL FINGERS, a jewelry
peddler, of 434 North Seventh
street, said charges of graft against
Policeman Kearse, of Buttonwood
street station, by Sam Schwartz wero
false. He declared that Schwartz
wanted to bribo him to give similar
testimony.
Lieutenant McBride, of the Fourth
and Race streets station, said ho
saw poker games in the Twentieth
Ward Republican Club.
Director Wilson expressed tho
liopo that every policcmnn who
knows nnythlng about graft will tell
nil he knows.
ExDircctor Porter conferred with
District Attorney Rotan ton the vico
situation.
Judge Roger's said the Grand
Jury may have an extension of time
for the investigation If such a re
quest is made.
An attempt to discredit tho testimony of
.Sam Schwartz, wlio branded Policeman
Kcarso, of tho Tenth and Buttonwood
streets station, ns a grafter before the
Grind Jury, was mado this afternoon by
Samuel Fingers, a Tenderloin Jcwelrr
peddler.
Fingers, who admitted thnt ho recently
got out of Jail, said he wanted 'a chance
to go before the Jury and tell tho truth
nbout vice conditions. He will probably be
called ns a witness. '
Fingers said thcro was no truth in the
testimony given bofore the Grand Jurr
by Schwartz. On Friday Schwartz said
that Kcarso collected money regularly from
disorderly houses nnd also confiscated drugs
which were taken In a dope raid on Flngera's) '
home on June 2.
Fingers said that Schwartz met him In
Franklin Squnro a few days ngo and of
fered him money "to get square with the
cops." "He asked mo to gle perjured
testimony and say that Kearse took dope
when a house was raided," said Fingers,
"and In regards to a so-called raid on June
2, In which ho sayn I was caught, the polio
records will show that I was In Jail at that
time. The raid that Kearse probably refers'
to took place on September 13, 1313, and
It wns made by Policemen Hatfleld and Mo
Intyrc. Lieutenant 'William McBride, of the
Fourth and Race streets station, Was the
first witness to testify today. Asked If he
knew "Dick" Kelker and "Battle" Hughes
nd If thoy were gamblers, "McRrlde said
ho -didn't know them at all. When ques
tioned concerning his relationship with
"Moe" "Welnbeck, a Republican division
leader of the Twentieth Ward and an al
leged gambler, McBride said he and Weln
beck had married sisters, but that he hadn't
"seen much of him of late.
As the lieutenant was formerly attached
to the Eighth and Jeffersonstreets station,
ho waa asked If he ever "found any
gambling In the Twentieth Ward Repub
lican Club. McBride said he saw a few
poker games there. When questioned con
cerning an alleged crap Joint at S,Izth and
Vine streets, the witness said he discovered
It and closed the place. He also said
that he had heard of the handbook place
for placing bets on horses, near Seventh and
Market streets, and closed the place.
McBride was followed by Captain McFad
den, who, on Saturday, told the Jurymen,
that he had sworn out warrants for gam
bling house proprietors In the northwestern
part of the city and that they were not ex.
ecuted by Superintendent of Police Robin
son. Today McKadden said that he really
requested Robinson not to take action on
the warrants right away, because he wanted
to get additional evidence..
CONSTABLn TO TESTIFY.
Among other witnesses expected to testi
fy this afternoon are James Nlxona, con
stable attached to Magistrate Rooneys of
fice, who, It Is believed will be questioned
concerning gambling conditions in the
Eghth Ward. "William Jones, of the Thir
teenth Ward, who was a candidate for the
Legislature at the last primary, will also be
quizzed at today's session.
Considerable comment was caused In City
Hall this afternoon when former Director
of Public Safety Porter arrived at the office
of District Attorney Rotan, where ho and
Mr, Rotan held a lengthy conference.
PORTER RECEIVED COMPLAINTS.
The ex-director was asked whether or
not he had eer received any complaints
about policemen In the Tenderloin districts
receiving graft from the proprietors of
disorderly and gambling- houses. Mr Porter
said that such complaints were numerous
and always Investigated. Us neier found
any direct evidence, however, of such a
condition, but when there was any ground
for suspecting certain policemen they would
be removed to another district It was
because of the great temptations offered
In the Tenderloin that the police jn those
districts were changed frequently, so that
the officers would not become too familiar
with the. habitues and accept any graft
that might be offered them.
When asked whether or not he had re
celved any complaints about Captain Kenny
and Lieutenants VanHorn and Stinger and
Detective Lee, of the vice squad, relative to
their receiving "hush money." the xJ)rce
tor said that he had not In fact, hi tmU,
he considered these men the beat jolkj
ameers for thotr particular dutlca lie ha4
uad,er him, Mid that be wave4
monthly report of Use work a p &e
Ucttve Lk, Tfce lalUr. he saU, tvrit
i
