tf%M X* tf%gMT_.
Anybody but a confirmed grouch ]
| I can get either a broad grin or a loud
guffaw out of Tom Duff's experi
; ences at the beach. Bottom page 7.
STRIVE TO HOLD GRAND JURY TO TASK
DOCK STRIKE MAY SPREAD TO ATLANTIC COAST
HART, UNTROUBLED
BY PROBE REPORT,
LIVES PIONEER LIFE
BY MABEL ABBOTT
W.i- I'rofcscu- J. K. linn of the I'uiversity of Washington dis
missed from the faculty bWMMfI of "If fc of hui'ininiy in Hie <le|Htrt
meiit " or bcvmisr lie (locs his own thinking and MJM what ho
Ibtaka?
I lie iiiK'viinii wns put up to the American .\ssocintion of I'nivcr
tiity I'rofesHoi-N ut tlie lieni'inK last \\ifk in Hcaltlc.
The <li-< Ni<iii. whiitever it may be. will neither rcsline I'l-ofe^sor
Unit hK |K)sition if lie wns wnnmcil. nor pin him in jnil it he MJ in
(lie nronx.
• • * *
"Tlie decision will make little practical difference to me," said
Dr. Hart Sunday. "1 am doing now what 1 used to teach. And 1
like it better."
Dr. Hart sat on the front porch of the little house he bulk at
Seabeck, on Hood's canul, when lie left the university last summer.
The house is of raw, unpainted lumber.
Dr. Hart is as sunburned and weatherbeaten as a logger. His
ehirt was comfortably open al the throat.
Seabeck is a queer litle place.
It had its great days 40 or || years ago. when a big mill made
It the center of the logging business for miles around.
Those were days when money was plenty, whisky was easy to
get. and men were quU'k on the trigger.
MR. HOWARD HAS ROW ALL HIS OWN
In the Seabeck cemetery are some significant epitaphs.
"Killed in a dispute," admits one tombstone, dated 1867.
There is a row of graves known locally as "Howard's Row,"
whose occupants were killed, it .i said, in various "disputes' in the
saloon of I). K. Howard, who died in Seattle not long ago.
The mill company made the town and the mill company ruled
It, and when the mill burned down the town died.
That was 25 or .'!0 years ago. A few oldlimera have continued
to live there, scratching the soil for a living, and keeping alive the
memories, and, it is said, the feuds, of the wild old days.
Some of the houses were moved away bodily, others were torn
down and used to repair the few that were still occupied; but most
of them stood vacant year alter year, silvering in the weather, with
glaseless windows like sightless eyes.
Within the last few years it lias become known as a lieantiful
place for ummer campers; and two years ago 1-awrence Colman of
Seattle and some associates established assembly grounds there,
■which bring a nomadic population of Chautauqua, Y. M. C. A.,
church and educational conventions all summer long.
Dr. Ifart's house is a mile and a half east of Seabeck, in the
I.one Rock school district.
He built much of it with his own hands. The heavy timbers
were cut from trees on the place, hauled to the mill by ox team. Dr.
Hart carried the stones from the beach for the fireplace.
IMPORTANT BATTLE, SAYS PROF. NEARING
And there, on a rough board table, he has been writing a book
—a history of education from a new viewpoint.
The McMillan publishing house has contracted for the hook.
It is practically finished now.
For four months last winter he taught half a dozen children
in tlie country school, and taught a night school for older people.
And now they are urging him to run for county superinteHdent
of KiUap county!
The case of Prof. Scott Nearinc, who was dropped from the
T'niveisity of Pennsylvania about a year ago attracted much atten
tion.
People suddenly asked themselves whether it was possible that
the universities, In which the young men and women who are goinp
to run this country pretty soon are getting their ideas, hip opposed
to teachers who do their own thinking and say what they tliink.
The decision of the American Association of University Profes
sors is practically a vindication of Nearing.
Professor Hart had a letter a short timo ago from Nearing.
He s.-iiil. "1 fi-H that the buttle of democracy for (lip
next hundred yearn iw being won or lost in these years we
are passing through now."
FLASHES |
OTTAWA.—A heavy rain has
quenched the destructive forest
fires in northern Ontario.
LONDON.—Zep makes second
raid of week on east coast.
SAN FRANClSCO.—Prosecutor
preparing to ask Indictments
against Nolan, Mooney and Bill
ings, held in suitcase dynamiting
rase.
CIIICAnO. -- The entire mid
dle west Monday welcomed a cool
wave.
PEUOGRAO. -- Russian of
fni'iv. on Stokhod line developed
wonderful strength.
GRACE CHRISTY
was the name of a young woman who wrote
feature stories on a Southern daily,
AND THE EXPERIENCES
of this story writer have been written into a
novel by Kate Trimble Sharber.
"AMAZING GRACE" .
is the name of it. "Amazing Grace" is this
week's novel'a-week.
START TODAY
and read the first installment. The other five
will follow, one each day.
The Tacoma Times
VOL. XIII. NO. V.V2.
AMERICANS DIE IN
CLASH ON BORDER
WITH BANDIT BAND
EL PASO, July 31.—Mexicans
killed two troopers of the Eighth
cavalry in a running fight on
American soil, near Fort Han
cock, today.
The dead men are Private John
.1. Troomey, troop F, and Customs
Inspector Robert Wood. Sergeant
Lewis Thompson was wounded.
Five Mexicans were killed.
A cavalry, patrol surprised the
bandits on the way to raid an
American ranch. Three troops of
cavalry chased the Mexicans to
the border.
TODAY'S CI,KARIXGB
Clearings $278,")86.1 2
Balances 36,772.74
Transactions 737,.">76.03
|25c A MONTH.
Card Returns
and Confers
With Phelps
—Summon 6
Mechanics.
A ihi.il. ili-s|ii'iiii)- attempt
to |i:il<-li ii|> Hi.- sirtlt in the
i-•.11■ sI nnv and l<> ri-i mimic
m lion in Ilia indict incut of
~liil.lllv lom^-Imi i iihii (l<Vcl-
I'l'fll ■.»l.llllil>.
The tir*t indication of this was
WIMS Judge Ernest M. Cord, who
vanished on a vacation lansdl
n«i'ly iifler calling t!'«" grand jury,
suddenly appeared on the imm
and asked for a conference with
Deputy Prosecutor I'helps.
Not even Judee Cliflord, to
whom the grand jury has been
bringing its troubles iarlng
Card's absence, knew of the
judge's iirrival until informed by
a reporter.
Card had this statement tn
make:
"I WILL NOT DISCHARGE
THIC GRAND JI'HY UNTIL IT
HAS FINISHED ITS WORK."
The, second indication was the
railing of J. B. Meenadi us a wit
ness.
Meennch, according to the re
port, was one of the strikebreak
ers said to have been shang
haied by longshoremen and taken
hitoss the bay to Brown's point
wlien ■ boatload of strikebreak
ers attempted to land al the Eu
reka dock June 2.
This incident was one of the
first such occurrences in the
strike.
The third development was the
summoning of six new wItMMM
in the 11 tli street bridge MM.
These were John Wood of the
Puget Sound Iron & Steel works,
Will Hudson, 524 North G, and
R. S. Hudson, both employed at
the Hofius Iron works on the
tideflats; John Doe Walsted, ma
chinist; U. Huston, IIS! St. Paul
aye., and Frank Larson, employe
at the N. P. shops.
All of those witnesses were
said to have been at the scene of
the shooting. Only three of
them, Wood Hudson and Wal
etad, had appeared at noon. They
remained only a few minutes in
the grand Jury room.
Oscar Matthews, driver of the
jitney in which young Rangwald
Lelnnan was riding when shot,
was closeted in Prosecutor
Phelps' office all morning, and
was expected to be called before
the investigators this afternoon.
Tacoma May Not Send
Delegate to Frisco
Possibility of the longshore
men's strike spreading to the At
lantic seaboard, nnd positive re
fusal of all Puget Sound locals to
send representatives to Tuesday's
strike conference at San Francisco
are developments of the long
shoremen's strike at the end of
the second month.
Tacoma, Seattle and all oilier
Northwest branches of the union
have refused to send delegates.
Secretary Seitz of the Tacoma
local declared Monday that the
principal reason this city was not
sending a delegate was lack of
finances.
A Certiiiti Coolness.
It is intimated, however, that
the northern longshoremen are
not friendly with the San Kran
cisco local, because of the latter's
return to work after asking all
other locals to join in a sympa
thetic strike.
The conference will be between
the coast union and the employ
ers, for the purpose of arriving at
U. S. Minister
Visits Tacoma
Hon. 0. S. Hartman, IT.l T. 8. min
ister to EruHdor, and his daugh
ter. Miss Lois K. Hartman, reach
ed Tacoma today for a visit with
Mrs. Roy I). Pinkerton, Mr. Hart
man'g daughter.
Mrs. Hartman preceded her
husband to th« States several
months ago and is making her
home temporarily at the Maxwell
Apartments.
She will accompany Mr. Hart
man to Quito thin fall when his
leave of absence expire*.
THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TACOMA
TACOMA. WASH., MONDAY. JULY 31, 1!>1().
FROM BOTH SIDES!
Now that .Indue Card is back
on the scene, Judge Clifford hat
returned to liim all the honor and
glory of directing the deadlocked
grand Jury. The jury took au
adjournment shortly before noon
without reporting any further
trouble.
It was siiiil In the prone,
rut ing attorney's office that
the deliberations probably
will continue until tomorrow
at least, though no one could
predict just how long the
jury might stick together.
a definite understanding over a
wage Hciile.
It may result in a continuance
of the strike, with San Francisco
again going out, or it may end
with a satisfactory adjustment,
union men say.
Atlantic Also?
J. A. Madsen, Pacific district
secretary of the International
Longshoremen's union, declared
Monday that the next move in the
strike will probably be the ex
tension of the dock tie-up to the
Atlantic coast.
"We are not in haste to make
a settlement." he said, "and in
tend to win if it taken a year or
more. Tills strike has been only
local as yet. It may have only be
gun.
A great many of the shipping
concerns involved on the Pacific
coast have vessels in the Atlantic.
We shall not overlook any bets."
$12 For
Reasons
Real money—sl2 of It—r
will be aid for Home 10-word
■lUw-ons Why."
Thin is your second, and
l.tsi. chance to earn the coin.
All the detail* are |ml>Hn|i
«•<! on page -V
Be sure to keep them down
to 10 words; many of lant
week's compelltor* let the
imsM. i s r un too long, and
thoNe answer* are, conse
quently, barr«<l from coinpe*
tition.
On page S.
| Talk o' the Times
(ii'eclhiKS luivc you kixM'd
the grand jury good-bye?
Miibel Abbott came to work
limping this morning.
Said Mm had a sprained anklfi,
but couldn't imagine why.
Later she recalled that she had
ridden IK miles in a stage yester
day holding a fat woman In her
lap.
So NOW we know how some of
those iprittned ankles are earned
by athletic men friends of ours.
The attention of spoiling
editors i- called to the fact
that .Matty rlnies with <'ln-
I'lllllHti.
EVKRY WOMAN IS JI'DGE
AMI .JI'KY CNTO HKR OWN
HUSBAND.
THK I'KKTTY BOY
Ah. now! Isn't It cute, Tim
othy?
1 don't know whether to tip my
hat or throw it a kiss.
You'd better not do either,
Babies, Babies, Babies;
They're Whole Show
ili>» 111 in 11 «ill you take
»or'£rour »ml>y?
\ ""• If you haven't any,
holt :li would you give for
O*e?
Or, if you don't want any,
how mm h do you think
you're mis-inn.
Ther«'R a chance to get v first
elms estimate of how much one
of the little i ussfs is worth, if
you don't know already, in the
film, Where Are My Children?"
at the Apollo this week.
And if you do know, you'll
ap|»roi iaio your own little boy or
girl all the more by reading the
film Dtory of the woman who
wouldn't have a baby when she
could, and who couldn't have a
baby when she would.
After all, everybody loves a
baby. Nobody can help loving a
baby.
The row of men folks and wom
en folks that line the lobby of the
Apollo cant Inn, admiring glances
at the baby faces, photographed
25c A MONTH.]
lc A COPY
Harold, then- may be one of those
women eopt* around an' pinch you
for flirting.
You know, Mike! This is one
of thoße leather nobs, the pretty
boy, who's in love with himself.
The kind that can't pass up a
gum slot without looking in tlie
mirror to see if his tie In crooked
or tf bis eyebrows are mussed up.
In other words, he's a mirror
leach.
He has a stock of different
poses that he thinks are lady
killers.
Me carries a memorandum book
stuffed full of frails' names, ad
dresses and telephone numbers.
Oh! he's some dog.
Me thinks every girl he meets
ought to go daffy over him.
They must be if they do, huh,
George?
When some bird smiles at him
he's so conceited he imagines it's
quite natural, but maybe the girl
Is doing her best to keep from
busting out HAW! HAWING! at
11, huh, Clarence?
Why are they just killing off
the sharks?
In The Times baby contest, proves
it.
Then there Is the motion pic
ture of these same toddling
babies*, laughiDg, squalling, play-
Ing on the lawn at Wright park,
with their fond Tacoma mothers
and dads as a background.
It is the headliner of the whole
sho v.
The big tragedy of babies—it
is the tragedy told in the film
play—is that some of us men and
women, boys and girls, carried
away by the enchantment of hav
ing a good time, don't Juat think
how much we really do love them
—until It is too late.
It is the tragedy of the "un
wanted children," snuffed out be
fore they hare a chance.
When Richard Walton, lover of
children, points an accusing fing
er at his wife and asks "Where
are my children?" he puts it
straight up to every man and
woman.
But then, the Apollo this week
I WEATHER i
Tacoma: Partly cloudy. ¥
Washington: Generally fair east, 1
partly cloudy west portion, cooler •
east portion. S
iiaiiiiiiiiiiiiHliiiliiiHH>iHHHl>HHH*
LABOR WILL BE
SLOW TO FORGIVE
HUGHES-MANLY
(Tlii- is the mvoiml In Manl.v'N MVttJ of .11 in h-.. break
ing Ui<- •>ilen«- or Nllonl Iliiiilii" In these articles Mnnly,
l>y <|in>(ini; veilmtliii from N|iee«'lies ami Hiiprenie court ile
< 1-i.ul- ip| Hiikli<->. la)N hare the .<< i inn in^ |iMii<'l|»Uy, by
whit'h the in >in I of I'linrlt'N K. Hughes opeittM,—l l»l I'uli. i
BY BASIL M. MANLY
Whenever labor readi the record of Ctwrkt E. Hughes' <!e
--cisions as a supreme cmirt judg?, the thins it will icnunibcr
first is that he concurred ill the decision of the court in the
famous Danbury Hatters' case.
The fact that the opinions which he personally delivered up
holding the California eight-hour law for women, the Illinois
child labor law ami the federal hours of service act for railroad
employes were very liberal and enlightened, are apt to l>e for
gotten by every labor man. Even the fact that in the Coppage
vs. Kansas case he was party to a ringing dissenting opinion
UPHOLDING THE RIGHTOF A STATE TO I.KUS-
LATETO PREVENT DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
UNION WORKMEN, \\ill be marc than outweighed by the
1 Danbury Hatters" decision.
To those not in actual touch with the labor movement, this
: altitude will be a surf rise. Jt wiU doubtless surprise Hughes.
To understand this situation it is necessary to see what the
Dauhtiry Hatters' decision means to labor. Hie DmOUTJ I lat
ter*' decision hail a three-fold meaning to labor: t
HITS LABOR THREE BODY BLOWS
First, it definitely deprived labor of the boycott, one of
its most effective Biropens.
Second, it intule each individual tmion man definitely
answerable under the Sherman . let for ail the activities of
Ins organization.
Third, it shoWd labor like a flash of lightning the abso
lute unfairness with which the tow was enforced against
labor as coin fared with capital.
In addition, there wns a itrong sentimental ap|>eal in the
fact t licit in tliis cast- the law in its utmost severity was being
enforced against a hand of old and infirm men, who had gr< \\u
gray while the 15-} car-old case was being prosecuted against
I them.
The Standard Oil and American Tabocco decisions, in which
Hughes also concurred, had been rendered just long enough
for their memory still to be fresh, while at the same time their
grimly farcical effects in increasing the value of the corporate
securities and their own stranglehold Ml their respective itv
dtUtHei could be plainly seen.
Labor remembered that the court in handing down the
Standard Oil and American Tobacco decisions had shown its
complete familiarity with the criminal careers of those cor
porations, had roundly denounced their practices, and had dis
missed them without any punishment except a fake dissolution.
Labor remembered also that, as shown by the congressional
record, the Sherman Act was not intended to apply to labor
organizations.
The reason that Hughes' endorsement of labor's right to or
ganize, as expressed in the dissenting opinion in the Coppage
vs. Kansas case, carries little weight with the workers is very
simple.
DECISION TO RISE LIKE BANQUO'S GHOST
"Of wli.it use." they say, "is an abstract right to organize
and to be protected from being discharged for being a member,
of a trade union, when the employer can fire you for any other
reason under the sun on a moment's notice, and when, by the
very court that pretends to give us the right to organize, every
weapon except that of ')>eaceful starvation' under the gtiise of
strike is taken from us? We cannot boycott, we cannot picket,
under certain circumstances we cannot even strike under the
decisions of the court without coming up against a law admin
istered for the employers by the employers' agents."
To the academic uplifter, Hughes' confirmation of the legis
lation in behalf of women and children will carry great weight.
To labor it will probably infer little; |>artlv l>ecause labi>r is
unable to understand how any disinterested man could refuse
tlie needed protection to women and children; but even more
because it does not regard these things as fundamental.
"Give us the right to organize and fight for better wages,'"
they say, "and we will protect our own women and children
better than the law."
These labor law decisions judged abstractly, do not marie
Hughes as a political progressive, I take it, and especially as in
every case they received the unanimous concurrence of the su
preme court, which includes many reactionaries.
But, however progressive Hughes may become in his cam
paign, whenever he m?e(s labor, he may expect to hear of tk*
Danbury Hatters' decision — like Banquet's ghost at the feast!
. i
Another Manly article tomorrow- or next day.
has another story— and it isn't a
tragedy—to tell this week. It's
about the little fellows who have
had a coaxing invitation before
hand, who have accepted the It
\ nation with thanks
Taroma babies— fat, rosy Rurf>
llng babies—lota of them, tell
that story.
