THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 11G.
NARRK, VERMONT, MONDAY, JULY 31, 1910.
riUCE, ONE CEXT.
BRITISH REACH
OUTSKIRTS OF
GUILLEMONT
Even Penetrated the Town
After Desperate Hand to
Hand Encounters, but
Were Forced to Retire,
Although Making Consid
erable Advance Southward
on Flank of the Town
FEARFUL CARNAGE
AMONG GERMANS
FOREST FIRES TOOK
GREAT TOLL OF LIFE;
French Have Advanced the
Line to the Edge of the
Village of Maurepas and
Also North of HemThe
Battle Was Fought Sun
day, During Most Intense
Heat
With tlie British Army in the Field,
July 31. The French anil liritish ui'iile
yesterday's attack in sweltering heat In
the Guillemont net-tor the Germans le
fcistcd the British bitterly. The liritish
got possession of the railroad station
and some of the attackers pot into Guil
lemont and reached the church. Theie
was much hand to hand lighting. The
Uritinh had to retire but made consid
erable advance southward on the I'.unk
of the town.
Perspiration made white water courses
in the dust on the men's faces and their
eyes looked out through masks so thick
that their faces seemed to be covered
with some kind of armor. The gunners,
Northern Ontario Ii Being Devastated
and Many Town Have Been Wiped
Out by Flames That Havo
Raged for Hours.
Englehart, Out., July 31. Foret Arc
raging in imi t her n Ontario are lielieve.1
to hme reunited in the Ion of from 130
to 200 live. Score of other persons
have been injured and it i feared many
of them may die.
Several mini II town have Iteen wiped
out by tho flame, which havo been rag
ing for 4 hour. Report tint far re
ceived uliow that 57 perished at Nushka,
a French Canadian settlement, and 34 at
Mathcson. Cochran, ha 18 dead and 34
mured; lroouoi Falls 15 dead and many
injured and Kamore 13 dead. I no nuin
lier killed at Porcupine Junction is not
known but the entire town was destroyed
except the railroad station.
Toronto, Out., Julv 31. Reports re-
ceived from northern Ontario state that
he town of Cochrane, Matlicson, Nush
ka Station and Timmons have been wiped
out bv disastrous brush tires which start
ed Saturday. Porquoia Junction und
Iroquois Falls are reported burning.
Serious loss of life occurred and it is
believed at least liHl persona have per
ished. Fifty-seven bodies are reported
found at Nushka Station and 23 at Math
eson. Many are injured.
All wires are down north of Englehart
and only meagre reports have so far been
received from refugees.
relief train with doctors has left
North Hay for the scene and Cobalt has
sent coffins.
Cochrane, in Nipissing county, is the
largest of the towns burned. It had 1,700
inhabitants. The other towns named are
in the same section in Xipissing or Sud
bury counties, within a radius of 23
miles or so. The population in each of
those towns is composed of.ionly a few
hundred persons.
ARRESTS
FOLLOW
BIG LOSS
Damage in New York's Ca
tastrophe Is Estimated at
from $25,000,000 to $43,-
000,000, Thirteen Grea
Warehouses Being Wiped
Out, Together with $3,000,-
000 Worth of Ammunition
Intended for the Entente
Allies
ley Railroad company, after a conference
between head of all department nere,
said:
"Thirteen brick storage warehouses out
of the iM owned and operated by the Na
tional Storage company and six pier
owned by the storage company and leased
to the llngli alley road were de
stroyed. Several others of the brick
warehouses were badly damaged and
ALL BANDITS
WERE SLAIN
FIRE ACCOMPANIED
BY GREAT EXPLOSION
FOREST FIRES QUENCHED
Heavy Rains to the Rescue in Ontario
Forests.
Toronto, Julv 31. A government mes
sage states that the fires in Ontario have
been entirely quenched by heavy rains.
LEFT WITHOUT POWER.
Western Ontario Crippled By Fire in
Dundas Plant.
Barge Loaded with Ammu
nition First Caught Fire,
and Flames Were Com
municated to Explosives in
Cars AH New York Was
Shaken, and the Explosion
Was Heard in Five States
Sunday
Hamilton. Ont.. July 31. The hvdro-
utrippwl to their skins, kept on serving j transforming station at Dundas was al- j
their guns at top speed.
The soldiers who reached Guillemont
speak of the fearful carnage among the
Germans from British gunfire. They said
they could hear the moans of the ter
man wounded for water above the bomb
ing ami machine-gun tjre. With news of
the shouting of Captain Fryatt fresh
in their minds the liritish went into the
charge in fury, swearing to avenge his
murder.
Xew York, July 31. Two men are un
der arrest to-day on warrants charging
them with manslaughter in indirectly
causing the death of one of the victims of
the terrific explosion of ammunition on
om minor damage was done to the , L. Attempted Sortie AcrOSS the
high alley gram elevators. In addition,! 1
iio uranue rsear r on,
Hancock
BAY STATE MILITIA
SUPPORTED TROOP F
In Running Fight 200 Shots
Were Fired, Says El
Paso Report
a far a is known, t3 loaded car were
destroyed.
"According to the evidence obtained ry
official of the railroad company the lire
started at 1:0.". this (Sunday) morning in
a barge belonging to an independent tow
ing company which had been moored
alongside the railroad company's dock ex
pressly against order.
'!. T. Ilanley, night general yardm
ter for the New York division of the Le
high Valley railroad, was on the pier
when the Are started. He said the ex
plosion, which occurred at 2:08, was in
the barge where the fire started."
Mr, Ilanley first thought was to re
move the loaded cars on tho pier from
the danger sone. ,i?e said that when he
reached the end of the pier the barge was
burning fiercely all over and the fire was
hcL'inninc to communicate itself to Some
of the cars nearest the bsrge. F.l Paso, Texas. July 31. Several
Two long cuts of cars were success- troopers of troop K Hh I niteu States
fully removed from the danger tone be-cavalry, supported by a detail of C corn-
fore the rapidly spreading hre engulted panv, Nth Massachusetts lnrantry, en
the balance. gaged in a running tight with Mexican
It ha not as vet been definitely de- bandits who crossed the Rio Grande be
termined int what the money loss will low Fort Hancock, Texas. Several Amer
be. Some 40,000 tons of raw sugar val-lican soldiers wen; reported killed, and all
ued at approximately S3,400,(HIO, is of the ten bandits were slain.
known to be lost. It is believed that the Private Twoney of troop 1 and Rolwrt
other content of the warehouses de-1 Woods, a customs inspector, were killed.
stroyed will greatly increase this amount. 1 wo hundred shots were fired
There were no explosives stored in the
warehouses and in only two of the can FOUR LANDED UNDER AUTO.
destroyed. These were loaded with
shrapnel, which would not have been a But None Was Seriously Hurt in Auto
source of danger but for outside fire. The
other cars destroyed were loaded prin
cipally with salt and pork.
'The scene of the explosion and fire is
n no way adjacent to the main passen-
Overturn Near Orange.
Good luck attended four people when a
Ford automobile turned turtle with them
on the main highway near Orange Center
ger and freight terminals of the Lehigh yesterday afternoon, for all four escaped
Yallev railroad at either Vpw York or serious injury, although pinned beneath
Jersey City, and the mishap will not in- the car. Mrs. Mason Jenkins, an elderly
erfere with the operation of business" woman reaming m eaoc iu,
I .. I i i..l -.L.-. Al. I. 4 - I. ....
most jiun, urn. sne i inouni. iu ume
escaped with a long cut over the bridge
JOINT FIELD DAY FOR lfX: tLI
FARMERS TO BE HELD t"al injury. Mr. Jenkins, Mrs. Jenkins
and tieorge uolden oi uranitevuie, wno
IN BARRE AUG. 19
most destroyed to day by a fire caused ! Black Tom pier yesterday. The estimate
bv a short circuit, leaving all western ; of the casualties places the dead at four,
Ontario without power.
DEAF; SITTING ON TRACK.
Owen Davis Roberts of Poultney Was
Hit By Train and Killed.
Poultney, July 31. Owen Davis F.ob-
i -.- - ! ,, ,..,.l.
London, July 31. lo the north of the i , '. B, .. ', ... .
., ' f , . , struck by the D. and H. milk train near
Mnimp trt'iwlip hnrvvpen Mill 1 .111 !irul . .'.-.
the river near Iiardoeourt have been cap-
i i... vv u ,irt-i. r.......
! 'e,,L" " "uft." "Sin his death as he was being hurric I to
30O - fin(l mft.rs nnH in nr i it nn tho .
v ' '- uHn l...a.. t.,1
the railroad bridge here yesterday after
noon, receiving injuries which resulted
French have pressed forward to the out
skirts of the village of Maurepas, cast
of Hardecourt ,and also captured p i
tions north of Hem, which lies to the
south of Maurepas, and held them
against violent German counter attacks.
Driving wall the I-rench on their light
flank from Delville wood to the Somme,
the British made an advance of the cn
tire line, and also made further progress
against the Germans east ot atorijt
'farm, Trones wood and Maltzorn farm.
To the north around Yprcs the Cana
dians raided German trenches while the
' Royal Munster fusilliers on the Looa
salient carried out a similar operation.
The Germans raided a front line British
trench near Hohenzollern redoubt, but
later were driven back. (
ZEPPELIN ESCAPED
AFTER MAKING RAID
Pilot of Pursuing Aeroplane Was In
capacitated By the Breaking of Ma
chine Gun This Morning.
London, July 31. The second raid
; within a week of the English coast by
' a Zeppelin was made this morning. The
Zeppelin escaped when the pilot of a pur
suing British aeroplane was stunned by
the breaking of a machine gun.
Roberts, who was very deaf, was sit
ting on a tie on the track readirg a
paper when struck by the train, whidi it
is supposed he did not hear. It was his
custom to walk up the track from his
boarding place and he doubtless supposed
the train had passed and so was nut on
the lookout for it.
PICNIC REAL PLEASURE.
TURKS LOSE TOWN.
Arab Force Captures Yenibo on Coast of
Red Sea.
London, July 31. An Arab force, dis
patched to Hejas, coast of the Bed sea,
after the fall of Jeddah, has captured
the Turkish town of lembo, says a F.eu
ter dispatch from Cairo.
RUSSIANS IN PURSUIT
After Austro-German Armies in Brody
Region.
IVtroprad, July 31. In the Brody re
gion. Russian troops are pursuing Ans-
tro -German armies, it is ollicially an
nouneed.
DUTCH STEAMER HIT MINES
All Passengers Left the Ship in Life
Boats.
London. July 31. The Dutch mail
stemier VYilhelmina hit a mine to-day
and the passengers left the ship in life
boats.
BRITISH ADVANCE POSTS
JUw Occupy Positions on Plateau of
Bazentin Le Petit.
Ixindon, Julv 31. As the result of Io-
, eal encounters in the Somme region, th
Pritish troop last night advanced their
posts at some points on the plateau
north of the town of Bazentin le Petit,
it is officially announced.
TOPE ADMITS FAILURE
Ta Bring the Warring Nations Back to
Peace.
Rome, July 31. The failure of the
pope appeal to the warring nation for
rac is admit td by the pontiff in ad
, drvMing a delegation of the youth of
r.ome.
Eagles and Their Guests Were at Cale
donia Park Saturday Afternoon.
Three hundred members and guests of
Barre aerie, No. 1573, Fraternal Order of
Eagles, gathered at Caledonia park Sat
urday afternoon for their annual outing.
Accommodations for many of the pic
nickers were provided in the M. & W. R.
.. 1 1 a f i.,..: .a M.lr
BU.HUUtlll irnill jeaiuig Rb itt.ua uiiwft
v hile others made the trip to the grounds
in autos and teams. There was an abun
dance of refreshments, and much merri
ment prevailed from the time the crowd
arrived until a special train leaving the
park at 7:15 o clock brought most of
them back to the city. A resourceful
committee-in-charge saw to it that
amusement was provided for old and
young alike, and it is easy to say that
no one wanted for excitement or recrea
tion. An orchestra from this city played
for dancing in the pavilion.
Interest naturally centered around a
baseball game with benedicts captained
by Richard Attridge and bachelors by
Paul Bianchi as the contenders. In five
innings of red-hot baseball, the plum
went to the single men tiy the score of j
7 to 6. Attridge and McKane did the
battery work for the defeated team, and
Nicora and McDonald were in the points
for the winners. Hoxes of candy and
crackerjack were awarded the children in
their impromptu races, and more sub
stantial favors were distributed to win
ners in the competitions summarized be
low i
Married ladies' race G. Marchetti l,
Mrs. Reaside 2, Mrs. George Cooper 3.
Single ladies race Minnie Crapo 1, Ag
nes Cleary 2. Fat men's race Fred Kerr
1, R. Attridge 2, A. Garibaldi 3. Lean
men's race M. Reaside 1, James Hast
iligs 2, W. McKane 3. Married men's
race George Murray I, Benjamin Batch
elder 2, (J. V. Cooper 3.
The committee in charge of the outing
was made up of the following Eagles:
David McDonald, chairman; Richard At
tridge, L. Sassi, Paul Bianchi, Frank
Rossi, John McKenzie, (reorge Cooper and
Creamer Allen.
DROVE AUTO INTO HOLE.
To Avoid Striking Another Car One
Woman Injured.
Burlington, Julv 31. In an attempt
to avoid striking an automobile that
drove out of A cross street without
warning directly into his path. T Fd
mund KnirabhoU, les.ee of the Hotel
Vermont and Van Ness house, drove his
machine into A telephone iole at the
corner of Pearl and South Willard street
Sunday afternoon. Mr. Krumbholti. who
was in the ear with Mr. Krumb'hlti
received severe injuries consisting of a
broken nose and a deep gah in tier fore
head. She was taken in a passing auto
mobile to the Mary Kletr!ir h..-j.iltl.
The irtrction of Pearl Mrwt and
South Willard street it consider"! one of
the worst corners in Burlington,
with three mortally injured, 33 less se
liously injured and 11 missing. The
property loss is estimated from $23,000,
000 to ?4.-,0O0,000.
Those under arrest were Allert Dick
man, agent of the Lehigh Valley railroad
at the pier, and Alexander Davidson, su
perintendent of warehouses of the Na
tional Storage company. A warrant was
issued for the arrest of Theodore B. John
son, president of the Johnson Lighterage
&- Towing company, one of whose barges,
loaded with ammunition, is alleged to
have been moored at the pier. Frank
Hague, commissioner of public safety,
charged that the blame for the explosion
lay cither with the. railroad, the storage
or the lighterage company for violation
of the laws bv permitting ammunition
barges to remain moored at piers over
night.
Several investigations were commenced
to-day to discover the origin of the fire
which caused the awful explosion that
destroyed $5,000,000 worth of ammuni
tion in ho freight cars, set blazing am
munition barge adrift to bombard the
Statue of Liberty and Ellis island immi
gration station with shells and shrapnel
and shattered $100,000 worth of windows
in this city,
The big pier west of the Statue of Lib
erty is to-day a mass of smoking ruins,
with the fire still burning. The immigra
tion station had the appearance of a war
swept village with every window shat
tered, the roof of the hospital caved in,
the main door blown away and the din
ing rooms wrecked. The doors to the
Statue of Liberty pedestal were blown in.
Shells Exploded First.
The detonations, which were felt In
five states, began with a continuous rap
id fire of small shells, then the blowing
np of great quantities of dynamite, trini
trotoluol and other high explosives, fol
lowed by the bursting of thousands of
shrapnel shells which literally showered
the surrounding country and waters for
many miles around.
Fire that started soon after the first
great crash which spread death and deso
lution in its wake, destroved. 13 of the
huge warehouses of the National Storage
company on Black Tom island, in which
were stored merchandise valued at be
tween $12,0(10,000 and $15,000,000. Tlie
flames, shooting into the clouds, were re
flected against New York's "sky line" of
towering office buildings, which only a
few moments before were shaken to their
foundations as by en earthquake. Miles
of streets in Manhattan alone were
strewn with broken glassand shattered
signs.
Crews on the big ocean liners anchored
out in the harbor, or docked along the
New Jersey and New York waterfronts.
declared that when the first two great ex
plosions occurred it appeared as if their
vessels were literallv picked up out of the
water and then hurled back.
All New York and cities within a ra
dius of 25 miles were awakened by the
explosions. Within an hour 6.000 tele
phone calls went over the police wires
from excited inquirers. Hundreds of
thousands of persons many of them
scantily clad ran excitedly through the
streets, while automobile, containing po
licemen, firemen and others, dashed mad
ly about. Detectives were rushed to
Maiden lane, the home of the jewelry in
dustry, to guard against thieves.
Scarcely an office building from the
Battery to .Vth street escaped damage.
More than a score of persons, ac-ordin?
to the police, were injured m Manhattan
and Brooklyn from flying gls.
Thousands of persons m Jerwcv Citv
fied to the parks after the first explosion.
Panic strhken women wheeled babv car
riage about, some of them praying and)
others screaming as they went. Not tin
til after dawn Sunday was the scene
changed from one of intense excitement
and fear to calm and apparent self as
surance. Thirteen Great Warehouses Destroyed.
A ttateim-nt issued by the Lh:;b. Val-
Orange and Washington County Farm
Bureaus Arranging Fine Program
to Be Carried Out at Granite
City Trotting Park.
Saturday, Aug. 10, will be the big day
was driving the car, were bruised and
considerably shaken up.
The car, which is numbered 11,703 and
is registered in Mr. Golden' name, was
descending a hill just west of Orange
villatre and was rounding a curve, when
it veered to the right and into the ditch
It ran but a few feet with the right
wheels on the bank, when it struck a
pile of large rocks and was thrown bot
tomslde up, so that it rested crosswise
MRS. MARIAH (COOK) TILDEN
Lifelong Resident of Barre Died in Her
94th Year.
Mr. Ma riali (Cook) Tilden, widow of
Judge Harvey Tilden, passed away at
12:15 this afternoon at her home, 8 North
street, after a long period of failing
health. She was in her With year and
death wa due to a general tweaking
down. I'p to last winter she had Ix-en
able to lie about the house, and up to re
cent year she had taken delight in re
calling the scenes and activities of early
Barre.
Mrs. Tilden was born in Barre on Aug.
31. 1S22, being the daughter of Rev.
Donne and Polly (Twing) Cook. She
always had resided in Barre, being en
gaged in her e.irly womanhood in teach
ing school Hnd Ix-ing very successful in
that. On Sept. 25, 1X40, she wa married
to Harvey Tilden, who later became judge
of probate in this county. He died in
the year 1SN.1. Mrs. Tilden was a mem
ber of the I'niversalist church of Barre
and was the last of the original member
of the ladies' union of that denomination,
the society having been formed in 1S5S.
She was a woman who was held in high
esteem throughout the whole community
She leaves two daughters, Mrs. Stella
C, Averill, widow of Arthur C..Averill
and Mis Blanch J. Tilden, and three
grandchildren, Mrs. W. C. Johnson, jr.
Harvey E. Averill and Helen S. Averill.
as well as several nephews ami nieces.
The funeral will be held from the resi
dence at 8 North street Wednesday after
noon at 2 o'clock, Rev. J. B. Reardon of
ficiating, and interment will be in the
family lot in Elm wood cemetery. It is
requested that flowers be omitted.
FAMILY GOT
OUT SAFELY
But Were Able to Save but
Little After Lightning
Fired Buildings
HORSE AND HOG
WERE BURNED
All of James C iter's
Buildings in M oelier
Center D' sjyed
BARRE MAN VICTIM
OF HEAT IN CHICAGO
for the farmers of Orange and Washing
ton counties, when they gather at the of the road. The force of the' collision
Granite City trotting park in Barre for was such that a large rock was moved
an all day's outing, to get better ac-
Ifnsjii its bae. Mr. Golden was able to
crftwl oof frnm benellt.h thp miichin. tts
quainted and take advantage of the one enA rfsted 0 thp Bli htIy rgigwj pm.
splendid program that is being prepared baakment, and eventually the others
bv the various committees. were removed from their imprisonment.
rf ,,!, ,.. -n ,t, i i Mrs. Jenkins lost considerable blood
the features will be the stock Judging I , ., . , . ,
' I from the cut on her ftose, and all of them
contest and demonstration, a demonstra
tion in home economics for the ladies,
basket picnic at noon, speaking in the
grandstand, and a ball game in the after
noon. This will be the day to drop your
work and come to Jiarre to attend a
complained of being' bruised and badly
shaken up. The entire' party were taken
to their homes in the automobile of Wil
liam Kennedy of Barre, who happened
along. Dr E. II. Bailey of Graniteville
was called to attend Mrs. Jenkins. The
meeting that will be both' educational c,ut " h;r nof as 'ouml to e quite
and enjoyable.
Following is the tentative program as
arranged by the committees:
0:30 a. m., at the park, stock judging
contest.
9:30 a. m., at How-land hall, home eco
nomics demonstration.
11a. m., stock judging demonstration.
12 m., basket picnic and social hour.
2 p. m., speaking by E. S. Brigham,
J. P. Taylor, H. W. Collingwood, John D.
Willard.'
Ball game.
The stock-judging contest will be so
arranged that there will be present repre
sentative cows of two breeds, probably
the Holsteins and Guernseys, as they are
easy ot access.
deep, but no broken bones were found
Dr. Bailey expressed the opinion that
she would be able to be about in a little
while, barring internal injuries.
The automobile was finally lifted to
one side of the road near Bert Richard
son's and remained there for some time.
The front axle was badly twisted, the
windshield was smashed, and minor dam
ages were done to several parts of the
vehicle.
William A. Morrison Died Late Saturday
and Body Will Be Brought to Barre
Funeral Probably on Thursday.
The terrific heat wave which swept
Chicago claimed one Barre man as a
k-tim, William A. Morrison of 44 Avers
trect, who left Barre four months ago,
ied Saturday, the information being re
ceived Sunday in a telegram to his sen,
Harold Morrison. The telegram stated
hat death was due to the excessive het
Harold Morrison, accompanied by Gorge
Murray, jr., of 194 South Main street,
eft last night for Chicago, where they
will take charge of the remains and re
turn to Barre, probably Thursday. It
is expected the funeral will be held from
the home of George Murray, sr., 44 Ajers
street, Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Mr. Morrison was born in Aberdeen
Scotland, April 14, 1862. He was a
member of Clan Gordon, No. 12, O. S. C,
of the Burns club and the Granite Cut
ters' union. He leaves three children
Mrs. Clifford Caswell of Mansfield,
Conn., William Leslie Morrison of Fort
Stevens, Ore., and Harold Morrison of
Barre.
The farm h .O.u in Montnelier Ten.
ter owned hy Jx lies Counter were entire
ly destroyed early this morning when th
barn wa struck during the severe elec
trical storm. The Counter family were
able to escape safely but were unable to
save any furniture and only a small por
tion of their clothing. They were unable
to rescue the horse and one hog in tho
barn, the only livestock in the buildings,
the cattle being in pasture.
According to neighbor, the lisrhtninff
struck between 4 and 4:30 o'clock and
within an hour all of the buildinsrs. barn.
house and outbuildings were entirely de
stroyed, there being no way in which to
combat the flames. In the barn was"
stored about 10 tons of hay recently har
vested. The loss is placed at about $2,00(1
and i covered by insurance carried in the
ermont Mutual Fire Insurance com
pany.
The farm was known as the Hersey
place and Mr. Counter had moved there
from Montpelier about three years ago.
GREAT DAMAGE DONE
IN NORTHERN VT.
Worst Electrical Stonn of the Season
Destroyed Buildings, Flattened the
Crops and Put Wires Out
of Commission.
FUNERAL OF J. GIACAMUZZI
BOWLED OVER BY AUTO.
As He Was About to Board Street Car,
Valentine Menotti Got a Cut.
Passengers aboard a north bound car
The contestants will be over the B. it M. I. x P. Co. s intercity
divided into two classes: Boys under 18 line Sunday afternoon saw a man
years, and men. Each class will have a knocked to the ground as he started
chance to give the first four places in to get aboard the car near West Second
each breed. This will be followed by street. For a brief, fleeting moment they
the stock -judging demonstration by Tro-jsaw the auto responsible for the accident
lessor Storey, head of the animal bus- and then the outfit disappeared In the
bandry department at the College of Ag- dust. Valentine Menotti who told the
riculture, I'niversity of Vermont, after police he lived at Third street, was the
which the names of the'winners of the victim of the accident and before he vns
contest in each class will be announced able to go home friends had taken him
and ribbons awarded as prizes. Get a
lew boys or men together in your town
and come to liarre for this contest. It
will prove instructive. This department
is in charge of a committee consisting
ot J. A. Partridge or Washington, Roy
Smith of Barre, and H. J. Dodge of Ber
lin. If you have any cows you are will
ing to show in this contest, confer with
the committee.
At the same hour as the stock -judging,
which will be at the park, there will be a
home economies demonstration for the
ladies, held under the auspices of the
Barre Woman's club, probably at the
Rowland hall. It is expected that Mrs.
Dimock will be in charge of this demon
stration. Following the basket picnic and social
hour will be the speaking, beginning at
2 o'clock. Hon. E. S. Rrivham. state
commissioner of agriculture, will be mas
ter of ceremonies and will introduce
J. P. Taylor, secretary of the Greater
Vermont association, followed ly H. V.
i-oiungwood, of wide repute as the edi
tor of one of the foremost agricultural
papers of our country. The Rural New
Yorker. John D. Willard, secretary of
the Franklin County (Mass.) Improve
ment league, will also deliver a short
address. Every farmer should take the
-'IMiiiunu v oi Hearing inese men, a
they each have a real message for our
counties.
Arrangement are under way for a ball
game to be called after the speaking
between towns represent ins the two
counties. This w il! be a lot of sport.
There will be no entrance fes of any
kind. Everyone is invited and evervon
s welcome. You are rordiallv ini.t.,-1
to bring in any stock or other material
for exhibition. Local and outside deal-
to the oiTice of a Washington street phy
sician for treatment.
Menotti had gained the highway and
was about to swing aboard the car wlitn
an auto came hurrying up the street
from the north. Before the man could
dodge, one of the mud guards struck him
and he was thrown to the ground. A
deep abrasion over the left eye is believed
to have been caused by the wind shield
as the impact of the automobile when
it struck Menotti whirled him around.
Eve witnesses say that the operator of
the car did not stop his machine to oer
assistance. Menotti did not lose con
sciousness, but the scalp wound bled
profusely.
Passengers say that the car loolred
like a Briscoe car belonging to H. Hm.ter
of Montpelier. After the accident the
police- continued their investigation and
intimated to-day that there might be
another development.
Held Saturday Afternoon and Burial Was
in Hope Cemetery.
The funeral of John Giacamuzzi, whose
death occurred at his home, 12 Addison
place, Thursday morning, was held at the
house Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Six compatriots of the deceased, who
were reared with him in a town in the
Austrian Tyrol, acted as bearers, and
there was a large number of friends pres
ent to accompany the body to Hope cem
etery," where interment was made. The
following men acted as bearers: Anto
nio Paluselli, Martino Paluselli, Augusto
Talaoro, Fortunato Palaoro, Dominico
Puscher and Ferdinando Moser.
Included among those who sent floral
tributes were the following contributors:
The family, bouquet of roses and sweet
peas; Mr. and Mrs. P. Tark, D. McDonald,
Mr. and Mrs. W. McDonald, Mr. and Mrs.
R. Fontana. Mr. and Mrs. S. Prario. Mr.
and Mrs. P. Malnati, Mr. and Mrs. S.
Ruoxi, Mrs. M. Prario, Mr. and Mrs. M.
Brozi, Mr. and Mrs. M. Brozi, Mr. and
Mrs. V. Orlandi, Mrs. L. Casarco, Mr. and
Mrs. L. Giacobuzzi, Mrs. M. Corti, Mr.
and Mrs. P. Cambusi, M. Paluselli, A.
Pellegrini, Mr. and Mrs. A. Pappazoni, M.
Viles, (. Domiek, S. Perich, 2. Centino,
H. Polai, L. Pappazoni, F. Baleoni,
Roma, G. Semprebono.
A.
St. Albans, July 31. The worst elee.
trical storm of the season swept over this
region for an hour this morning, begin
ning at 3 o'clock. Great damage was
done by lightning, rain and wind.
The barn of William J. Bascom at St.
Albans Point was struck bv lightning and
destroyed, together with all the contents,
including farming tools some hay and an
automobile belonging to A. L. Adams of
Rutland, who was occupying one of Mr.
Baseom's cottages. Mr. Bascom estimat
ed his loss at $600, partially covered by
insurance.
The electric light and power lines in
this city were out of commission for some
time. There was no electric power till 0
o'clock; the street car service was halted
for some hours and many telephone lines,
both local and toll, were knocked out.
The fire alarm system was also disabled.
Trees were blown down and much loss to
fruit and crops was sustained.
In Fairfax a large cow barn owned by
Mrs. Mary Walker of St. Albans and lo
cated on a farm conducted by Eli Cormia
was struck by lightning and burned, the
loss being $3,500. Four calves were
burned; and much machinery and hay
was lost.
In Fairfield crops were leveled, cornj
oats and grain being laid flat, and trees
were blown down. In Swanton light and
power lines were put out of commission
and telephone service was crippled.
GARAGE CHANGES
ON JEFFERSON. ST.
Barre Garage Co. Buys Building anfl H.
G. Bennett Purchases Buick Agency
and Business of Drown Motor
Car. Company.
WENT TO SLEEP DRIVING AUTO
Dean McDowell Woke Up When Machine
Struck Pole and Tree.
Wheelock. July 31. An automobile ac
cident occurred here about 3:30 Sunday
morning when Dean McDowell of Shef
field fell asleep while going at a high rate
of speed and lost control of the machine,
which crashed into a telephone pole,
breaking the pole in two. The car
glanced from the pole and stopped when
it struck squarely against a birch tree.
HIS ALLEGED VICTIM
IS NOW SUED FOR
WIFE ALIENATION
Eusebio Albano, Who Is Charged with
Assault with Intent to Kill, Asks
Damages of $1,000 from Luigi
Cerutti, Whom He Is Charged
with Shooting.
Eusebio Albano of Barre, who was re
cently arrested in New York City and
arraigned in Barre city court on charge
of assault with intent to kill, has entered
a suit in county court against his alleged
victim, Luigi Cerutti. for the alienation
of his wife's affections. Albano seeks to
obtain $10,000 to recompense him for the
alleged loss. The defendant, it is alleged,
was a boarder at the Albano house on
Webster avenue. J. Ward Carver ap-
FELL BEFORE RUNAWAYS.
Mitchell Provost of Burlington Badly
Hurt Trying to Stop Ice Team.
Burlington, July 31. Mitchell Provost,
an employe of the Komnson -hda-ard i
itears for the plaintiff.
The state case, as well a the civil suit,
is returnable at the September term of
court. Cerutti was not seriously injured
when Albano shot him three weeks ago
yesterday, the bullet grazing his fore
head.
MASON SMITH.
Marriage Took Place at Bride's Home in
Barre.
Miss Maybell Smith, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Smith, and Harry Ma-
ison ot .Monipener. were mamed at tlie
bride home in Barre Saturdav aftr-
Upwards of $50,000 was involved in an
mportant business and realty transac
tion closed to-day when the Drown ?Jo
tor Car Co. disposed of its garage prop
erty and Buick agency on Jefferson
street, the purchasers being the Burro
Garage Co. Inc. and H. G. Bennett. It
is stated that negotiations for the dtp I
have been carried on for some time. Pos
session was given as soon as the deeds
were recorded. In the transfer, the Drown
Motor Car Co. sells its modern, two-story
garago to the Barre Garage Co. The
building, of solid brick walls, steel frame
work and all facilities for garage work,
was erected in 1!12 at a cost approxi
mating $30,000. It is probably the mos
substantial building of its kind in Vcr--mont.
H. G. Bennett, who has occupied sales
rooms in the garage for some years, be
comes the proprietor of the Buick agency.
held by I.. A. Drown for the past MC
years, during which period hundreds of
cars of that type have been sold in Ver
mont and adjoining states. Mr. Bennett)
will conduct, the Buick agency in connec
tion with interest in the Vermont!
Cadilla Co., with sales rooms for each
ers will permitted to exinbit tln-ir
wares for advertisement. Anv Question . Lumber companv. was badly injured ai- lof the I'niversalist churoh. was the pfti
in regard to exhibit should bo referred (urday evening when he attempted to step jeiatme clergyman. The groom was at-1
to C. A. Badger of Fast Montpelier or', runaway team belonging to the Con-1 tended by Herman Smith, brother of tie
Ksv Threhr of William
j-'intly in iir-t charge (4 details.
car at the garage. For the time iieing
Harvey Jt Mower, who have occupied a
part of the second story at the garage,
will continue iu the repair busines lb
is understood that many members of the
staff employed by the brown Motor Car
Co. will be retained.
The Barre Garage Co. was incorporated
around three weeks ago and is financed
whollv by Barre capital. It is said that
Mr. Bennett is closely allied with the in
terests of the company and that all
business at the garage, barring the in
terests of Harvey & Mower, will virtually-
be under one head.
" To-dav E. A. Drown stated that he
j;.,.! of hU interest on Jefferson
noon in the presence of a large gathe.ii.g ,trM.t fr ,he purpose of devoting his
i ineiem. ... . nmuun. i ast..r , ,,,, tim ,, h . jnlff humneas.
Montpelier orja runaway team belonging to the Con-(tended by Her
town, w ho are I solidated Ice Delivery companv. IVov st j bride, and M
in knoked down and received venous 'bride-maid
GERMANS REDOUBLE ATTACKS
Come and bring all the familr to thi iniuriea when two wheels of the wj.-.m ! and her stTen icnt's gown wasof Mi.k silk.
r. Mora Darby as (!:..-,- Hem Wood and Monaco Farm.
i ne once wore om rose s .K
outdoor m-t:ng of in-tni. 1 n. e.iuea-, rsed over his bodr. He has a rut Mr. and Mrs. Ma,in are to resi le
tion arvj entertainment. Ahs.!jteh- no, on the right leg. a seyere laceration fllianv, where the groom i employed by
tbly will develop iuler- Murr aril lr.l"n. The exupie ree;vej
charge cf any kind for admission and his thigh and probab
tA&ibition. dm injuni-a.
tia-ijr jrcM-nt.
Says Paris Report.
Paris. July 31. North of the Somme,
the trf-rnians have r"doub!ed their coun
ter attacks between Hem wood and Mon-
,acu iiia. Mje Ue war oke stateoicsU
