Ask the T-D for It
Its Information Bureau Is at
Your Disposal
iJidjmonii Cmxes^fUsnalrh
A Business Guide
Real Estate and Court News
Daily in Times-Dispatch
66th YEAR
yoi.i;mi<: ?b
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 191G.?TEN PAGES.
,.\uVrf;,:u ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
Five Big Automobile Loads of
Clothing Hauled From De
posits at Engine Houses.
FIREMEN GLADLY CO-OPERATE
I'irst Bundle Day of The Times
Dispatch Is Unqualified
Success.
Having collected t???; bundles of old
' lot hinp and shoes deposit et| ill |{!.-h
mond llre-etiitIne Ii^iihos in answer to
the I iundlo-1 >:? v :t ppea I ..f The Tlnies
I (ell, tlic scveu-puKcenper aut'imn
l"l" enua it in the work yesterday
afternoon was forced to discontinue l.y
Ho: I'omiiiu of <la t k, with a tlilriJ of
? lie .stations still unvisited The auto
mobile win bejrln attain at 1 n o'clock
this mor>ifnp. anil It is expected that
Hie work will . oinplelod |,y noon
All bundles col I ?M-t ed yestr-rda v were
delivered to tlie Associated Charities.
Bundles were collected from the lire
stations yesterday as follows:
No. 1 North Tw.-ntv.lifth Street
.IS.
No. -?.Main Street, near T v. e n t \
lit st, 1 r>.
No. n oos |;ast Itroad Streit, ? 7
No. t 17 Xf.rth Third Street. ;i*.
No. ?_'<"? West Mat shall Street. 4<\
No. v .-.oil | ii.jiny Street i Kultoi,).
V No. :? Kifth and Iltivr] St-eefn. V
No. 1 ft- ] r.oji West Broad Stre,|. 1 1 **
No. u?Twenty.eighth and s Streets
l.
No. 13 i: a i n 1. I Id c ?? and Tenth
Streets,
No. l.V Highland I'aik, 1.'.,
No. 17?T h : r I 1 e t h an.I Bainbridce
Streets. 7.
No. 2 Truck - ISfiJurist ? rra ? >> St r?? t
0.
J Total collected. |Oi{
M\ I'l.At'KS OK l)|:i>tts|r
s'i'ii,i, to m: \ is 111;|)
I In miles w ill Ile.te.i to-,la> from
the remaining station.; as follow.
No. r. - 2?o South I.atirel Strep;
N'o. i -T'l't Ka st f'ui-v Street
No. 12 -222.1 West fary Street
No. M < ;int< i Park.
No If.? 71.-, I.amh Awn tie < Bat ton
Melirhtsi
The Ti tries -1 >? spat ? h ofh. . in South
Tenth Street
Th< autofiiol.il. ti, id. nve trips I.e.
, '?'??en - o lo.-k a tid dusk vest crdav
< a f t * rnooti. '>n mou of the trips the
ti -i-hfne was crowded with pa.k.i .
''* 'apa.if.. and the driver was
pushed f i r int .. a tic ?f the front
The five ti t o stations and the office
"t The Times-Idsnal. !.. from which col
1' tloiiH have not yet been mini,., Will
I..e|ve bundles til) Utitll in o'.-loek this
mornlrc K,.r those who are anxious
t'tlt their old clothitlp to (rood use
there i" y.-t oppot tiit-.1t\ The material
Should he tied tl?htl> ami marked "Kor
I The Times.IMspat.-h." The Tlnies-I >is
Pnt.-h automobile will airy the bun
'lies without evpens,. {? n,r. donor f, out
The depositories to the Associated
? "haritles.
Hl:vr llll??\l) STUKKT 114)1 s|-:
I.i:\IIS IN < OI.I.KCTIOX
ll"il?.. X,. p.. located at 1
U ? "f'.ad Sr r. ' ! l.-d all nth. r . ..I
l.-et ton .]? pots with . total ,,f nr.
bundles I'ushinit this sti,t,,.n . h-. |y
4 ryr firs. place was N.. |. at 207 Nortii
Third Street, with iiin. ty-iiv. I,undl> -s
Ih'- h< n tl'iuart. :. stati.-n. at ;>;o Hast
Broad Street. , ,,m. third. w ith sixtv
coven bundles.
^ "h l'" operation ,.f th.- I"ir>
I apartment. Th- Times-1 ?ispHtch i.e.
pan the Itundl" May .iimpiiiKu a we,.|.
?po. lUchmond people w.re invit-d t..
take their discarded . lothinp and shoes
to th- nearest Mr- engine house or t,,
the office of The Times-1 Mspat.-h to he
, ctorod until liundle |>av, yesterday
f When they Would lie delivered free of
cost to the Asso.-iat.-d <'harlti,s pr.
ports from the first we,. encouiaplnp.
hut the penerositv ,.f the response
found yesterday was unexpected
Assistant Kil e ?-}lief ,Wise aided
the collection hv hrinuinp in to this
station at I'.rook Avenue and Marshall
Street the fifteen I,undies left ||IK),. ,
land Park. At pra- ti.-ally everv sta
tion the It re men assisted in loadinp the
bundles on tin- automohlle. The cap
tain of the station in Kulton had the
, pastors ..f churches in that section last
Sunday invite the members of their
congregations to pive bundles of
clothinp.
KXIHIMOIS ll(?\
KII'I'I 1? WITH t'l.OTIIIMi i
in addition to the forty larpe bun-I
.lies secured at Kngitie-House No ft at1
Marshall Street and Brook Avenue,
there was a great wooden box filled i
with clothing, which could not be car
'?ried in the automobile. A separate trip
will bo made to-day to bring in the
box. In bulk it was almost as large 1
as the t>ther forty bundles together. I
I he standing of the station compared
with the others would have increased
greatly if the material in the box had :
been divided up into bundles of normal
size.
Alt hough the bundles varied greatlv
in size, most of them were large and
heavy. The seven bundles which made i
up the contribution of one house were!
so larpe as to till almost half of th
automobile. The bundles were tied up
in bed clothes, after the manner of a j
family wash, and by their weight and j
compactness they must have contained
^idothes enouph for several families
Only one station had received no
bundles at all. The men of that station
Xo. Truck, explained that it was lo
cated just across the street from the
Nineteenth Street Mission of the Meth- !
odist Church, and that most of the!
charity of the neighborhood was done I
through the medium of the mission.
JOVXKS .AMI llt'CII.WAX
iw.i<:asi:i> w ith srcricss j
"l believe this is the blppest colloc- I
t ion of old clothes ever gathered tip j
in one clay In Itichmond before.'? said j
Kire Chief Joynes. "I knew we would >
do well, but I never had an Idea the I
pile of bundles would be as bi^ as it ?
is. The poor people will have easy I
(Continued ~on~Kfflh "PageT) '
New Mileage Built
in 1916 Only 1,060
7 his Is Smallest Total, With
Exception oj 1915, Sincc
the Civil War.
f Uv Ahmh iatr?<l |
?'IIICA'Jo. Dei-ember 28.? Althouxh
the year IM< was one of record-break
ing tr.?If>?- and earnings. m w mileage
built was tlx* smnllc.st, with the ex
ception of 1 1since the Civil War.
according to a review of the railroad
situation, which will be printed in to
morrow's edition of the Hallway
< >a/.el te.
In i.'iinailii only !!!< i miles of new
track was laid. Now mileage: projected
in Hi'- fnitci] States is 7 " 7; that being
surveyed. 2.i:i?i. and that being actually
built, 1,1) ?}0.
New rolling-stock orders call for
ITn.'Kii) freight 'arx, 2,34!< passenger
coaches* and 2,1 2:t locotnotl ves The
freight cars ordered outnumber those
of tin- preceding veai by f.:t,o"i'
I'leight caiv no!d abroad increased Inn
per cent, and locomotives nearly C'O
per cent.
I here was a small reduction in 're
railroad mileage in receivers* hands ?
ixty-three railways, with a mileage of
l.
The outlook fi#r greater prosperity
for III" : a I bonds and aillllated indus
tries and for a larger expansion of
r id I way facilities during the next few
\.ars s? ?-inv promislm." concluded the
i < vie vv.
AT WORK ON CHURCH UNION
Itcproneiit n{Ivpm of Northern mill South
ern MetltodlM ? tuircli < (infer
\ Kill ii Tn-I)ui.
Mv A Iiiie.i Pr J
ISA t/nM'>|{ K, Ni I?. December 2S.
I'he two commissions i,n < ?>? por.ition
urtii.n <?? the Northern anil Southern
bra :>he.s ,,f the Methodist Kprs.copal
? 'bur< !i im-t Jointly li.-i< t..-dav mi'I
adopted resolutions off. red ly. Rev
?' hn 1". i!r,:nhi i, 11 11.. f Minder ,,f
? Jomher Cidlege. t <. m-n separately
'his afternoon and to-nii;lit and to re
???nvene for Joint organization t"-tnor
row.
The Ji.int conference !s expected f
'?r.tlnu'- into th*- i ? \ t week, and all
''ss*o! V will l>! executive and se. r> t
Rishop Karl I'ransti.i >,{ the Northern
Church, and Kdwln I ?. Moij/.on, "f the
S'liitherri I'hurch. have b- - n foremost
among advocates <if uni<-n.
I'lA N Jul NT \\ \T? ll-Mf.in
SKUA H I-: IN N mv OKI.r.AVS
N'KW ? H'.l.KANS. lie,-, ruber 2S. Local
members of t.i?. Southern and North
e ri branch-" of the Methodist Kpisco
p 11 Church will attend a Joint "watch
ight" service New Year's lCv<-, it was
:<ttnotinceil to-tilirhr According to
members arranging the program, the
services on M-niilay will mark the llrst
y '.lit meeting here of the two branches
if the church since the orga ni/.ation ?.f
th> Southern branch.
PRESIDENT HAS QUIET DAY
OlelirntPM III* M*?lctli lllrtlnlnv \\ itli
Member* of I'miilly in \Miitr
llotlMC.
\V.\ S111 N"i iTciN. December 2S. Pres
ident Wilson celebrated his sixtieth
birthday in quiet fashion, free from
official worries, and. for the most part,
his day was one of complete rest. The
President never appeared in better
health as he strode jauntily through
the corridor leading to the executive
? es. and i.e appeared ten years
younger. outdoor exercise?walking,
gulling and automobiling?has mad.
?lie President absolutely "tit," Dr. Cary
'irayson. his physician, said.
Congratulatory messages and table
crams poured into the White House.
Many of them came from Kuropenn
rulers. The President and Mrs. Wil
son. together with the White House
holiday guests, had a luncheon, and at
the *|uIet family dinner to-nieht there
were no guests except members of the
immediate families. Rain prevented
the President's usual game of golf
with Mrs. Wilson.
The President remained in his study
for the evening, retiring early.
T. R. TO LEAVE IN FEBRUARY
Accompanied liv >lr*. liooKcvelt, Will
lio <m Four .Months' Trip
to Orient,
NKW YORK. December CS.?(Colonel
Roosevelt starts for his Oriental trip
from San Francisco on February 7.
He will he accompanied by Mrs. Roose
velt. The Colonel first goes to Hono
lulu. After a visit to the Marshall Is
land group, he will proceed to Samoa.
I he Colonel will be absent about
four months. He wishes It understood
that the tour is merely for pleasure,
and that he is not in quest of more |
whiskered birds or unknown rivers.
MISS WILLIAMS IS BRIDE
llimgliter of IIImmIxmIppI Senator Hp- j
comes llrblr of 'rhomiiM It.
iloyklu. of Savuumih.
WASHINGTON. December 2S.?Miss:
Julia Fulton Williams, daughter of
Senator and Mrs. John Sharp Williams,
i f Mississippi, and Thomas Rives Roy- i
kin, of Savannah, were married to- I
night at the Senator's home, the Rev.
Andrew R. Rird, of the Second Pres
byterian Church, officiating. Only rela
tives and a few close friends attended
the ceremony.
TWO FOUND DEAD FROM GAS
South Cnrollnn SlierllY nntl I'rinon Su-j
peri ii tend en t Meet Accidental
Dentils.
I My Assoc|,ite<| I'rcff 1
KDIZAI1KT11, N. J., December 28.? :
John W. Davis, sheriff of Oconee i
County, S. C., and William C. Foster, j
superintendent of prisons of the same j
county, were found dead to-day from ,
the effects of inhaling Illuminating gas. I
The officials had come from Walhalla,!
S. C.? to take back John Walk
negro accused of murder in Madison, j
?5. C. The police tire convinced their j
deaths were accidental.
Committee Has Received $253.50
of Required Total of
$5,000.
TO MEET AGAIN TO-MORROW
Plan Inaugurated by The Times
Dispatch to Secure Jobs for
Men Is Approved.
Plans for tlit* wlt'ijHK1 fur th" First
Virginia Infantry weic discussed yes
terday at a meeting of about thirty
iii' intii '-.s of Hi'1 committee appointed
by Mayor fl?orK" Ainslie t?> plan for
the i ecept ion to 111); I roops. Tin* ni'i't
ing was held in tin* I'.usiness Men's
flu It, where Ihc ciitiri; com m i 1t ee will
again Kut!\>'r to-morrow to fun li'-r con
sider th?- matter.
''fimiiiitn,es for the solicits tion of
fittids to i-ovi'r the cost of th" welcome
have alteady started work. The gen
eral ?-??linn it t ee has been sul'li vlded
In?" a ii'.nulier of committees with two
members eaVh. These committees will
undertake to rai.se JI each Letters
have been sent to many piominent
liusiii*1'.- men asking for <-<.titrilojtions.
while liie newspapers of the city ate
.ill -operating in receiving contrlbu
ilons. It is proposed to raise jr.,000 t<>
cover the cost.
Colonel Th-nnas I'. McAdam.s is treas
urer ?>f the finance committee lie re
ported yesterday that the follow i ng
subscriptions had been secured in the
first few days of the cnnipnign:
Times-1 rispatdi $ 25 00
Waller >1 olladay 10 00
John Keit Prauch 25 0o
??;. .1 Willis 25 0"
It. H Howard 0 'mi
I.. T. Price 10 00
M. <lira tic It 10 *0
Horace J-*. Smi'li 2 50
< "l.a ? 1< s <Savllle 10 00
J. T. Palmatary 10 00
?1. A. Branch 10 on
I. .1 Ma reuse. 10 (??
Milton K Marctise 1 oa
i*. *' Chapln 1' 50
II. I' 1 Sosi'lien It oo
Morris Hunter 10 00
A. M Smith '.... l'> 00
J. B. l'ilider 10 00
Th.tlht'ner Bros 1" 00
News Leader 25 00
T ? i Sydnor 5 00
i'ash 1 oo
C. N. Shu man 2 5)
S. S. Rosendorf 2 f>0
George C powers 2 50
Total received $253 50
WIM. All) IN XKCtniNt;
jouh ron (a .\itns.MK.\
While the general committee was
discussing the financing of the enter
tainment. it was suggested that the
movement inaugurated by The Times
IMspatch for securing positions for the
returning guardsmen be supported by
the committee. Th- majority of the
members are heartily in favor of aid
ing the m.-n to ttnd work. The Tintes
I'ispat'-h is having prepared u census
? ?f trades represented by the members
? ?f th- Richmond Cravs Battalion, and
ir? a few days will be prepared to give
the number of men needing employ
ment and the occupations they are
qualified to fill. In all probability, the
Mayor's eommittee will undertake a
census of local concerns needing men.
in order that tin soldiers can step into
places tlvy apalde of tilling
From reports concerning labor condi
tions. it is not believed that the men
will have much dilliculty in getting
good positions on their being mustered
out of the Federal service.
No definite plans for the welcome will
be made until it is known with some
degree of certainly how much money
there will be to spend. There is no
us*- in getting up a program that can
not be carried out, in the opinion of
the committee. The meeting to-mor
row. it is believed, will give a line on
what the committee can expect in the
way of funds.
There is as yet no way of ascertain
ing when the troops will arrive. As
Colonel William J. Perry explained in
his telegram to The Times-Dispa t ch
on Saturday night, the First Virginia
Infantry will not be able to entrain
before January 2. and they may not
get off. The railroads must furnish
equipment meeting the requirements of
the War Department for the transpor
tation of the troops. This is no easy
task, as one Western regiment which
was due to leave Texas yesterday will
not start before some time next week.
Troops ordered home four weeks ago
are Just getting there.
The troops will reach Richmond over
the Atlantic Coast Line. The regiment
will travel in three sections, with Colo
nel Perry and his staff on the last train.)
Major l.awrenee T. Price, chairman of
the transportation committee. Is Irv
ing to get the railroad to bring the
three trains into Richmond as closely
together as safety will permit. A part
of the reception commitl.ee will meet
each section with a band and escort
the men to the armory in which they
will be quartered. Here a light lunch
eon will be served. It is probable that
a big parade will be held the follow
ing day and one or more balls given
for the returning guardsmen, who will
be eager to meet and mingle with
young folks once again.
The meeting to-morrow will start at
12:15 o'clock. All members of the com
mittee are urged to be present, as the
time is limited In which to accomplish
what is necessftry lo be don<\ It is'
no small task lo raise the money, at'
after it is secured all of the details j
necessary for the entertainment mi.
be woiked out.
Dnvid Cnpliin Sentenced.
LOS A NO K LKS, CAL, December 28. i
?!>avid t'aplan. lasi of the alleged
dynamiters brought lo trial for the '
destruction of the Los Angeles Times \
nuibling in 1910, when twenty men j
were killed, was sentenced to-day to |
ten years In San Quentin Prison, on a i
charge of manslaughter.
Spend New Year's Day In Baltimore
$4.50 rounil trip via YOIlK BIVKH 1.tNIC,
Phone Madluon Z?2 for staterooms.?Adv.
ONE MODE APPEAL
! MADE BY CARRANZA
Asks for Modification of Protocol
Providing for Withdrawal of
American Troops.
REQUEST TO BE CONSIDERED
Mexican Commissioners Confi
dent That No Insuperable Bar
rier Has Been Raised.
' !?? \ ?. H I'ro-- I
WASH IN'ilT1 iN " icoeniber 'J* 'in*
more appeal f"1 modification of the
protocol pro\ 'I ^ "or 111?* withdra wal
of American troop* from Mexico is
tii>iil?? b\ fieiK-i.tl < 'u rrati/.it in a mes
sage delivered to S>i relitry l.ahe to
day by l.llis ?' ? ia. Iiitirin'iti of t he
.Mexican member of tii" joint commis
sion. The M<-\ . ,iii first chief replied
to t lie insistent \tiH-rican demand that
the protocol signed by his spokesmen
ii t Atliintic Ci'y li. ratified with an S00
-.vord document. ?. which he failed to
t?i tli< demand. but refrained
from writing ; I f i \t 111 ti that could be
construed as a ?' t repudiation.
The latest suggestions for changes
in the agreement iii>w will bo con
sidered by the ?! t ? American repre
sent at i vi's?i it: \ l.ane. .1 It. Molt
and Judci' iJeorge ?iray. Secretary l,an?
advised his coII-mt'lte.s late to-day nf
th" cliariii.'ii't of tin reply. and asked
them to meet hltil here as svu as they
conveniently ????n 1 <i
Karly next woi k :i joint session of
the Mexican commission will be liehl.
at which' the Americans will give the
Mexicans their answer, and on its
nature depends t?;?- future course of
t he commissioners.
vkitiikii i \iikkm \ noii i.am:
\\ ii.i. lust rss hkim.v
Neither Mr. Cabrera nor Secretary
I.;?nc would discuss the nature of Car*
ra n7.a's reply. Mr. ?'abrera left for
New Vml; soon after its delivery, and
Sec re; a ry l.iine declined to reveal its
character until it hail been submitted
to his colleagues. The same reticence
was displayed si t the Mexican em
bassv.
It was learned that Uie Mexican com
missioners were confident that no In
separable barrier had been raised by
Carranza. It was asserted that the
utmost rare h:ol been exercised to keep
out of the reply any expressions ot
sentiments that might make the situa
tion more complex, or that would in
any way offend the representatives of
the American government. The chief
Insistence of Carranza litis been tint
the American troops should be with
drawn unconditionally, which t
American commissioners would not
consider. It was indicated to-night
that Carranza's insistence on that point
was less pronounced now, and that the
change in his attitude had been
wrought largely by the altered mili
tate situation in Northern Mexico.
There appeared reason to believe
that one of the conditions lo which
Carranza now objects is that tinder
which he would be obliged to garrison
the territory evacuated by the Amer
icans as they marched out. It was
pointed out thai since the protocol was
drafted the increased activities of Villa
and the steady growth of his army
of bandits have made it difficult for
("arran7.il to agree to use any con
siderable part of his army in the dis
trict now occupied by I'ershing. when
it might be necessary to use the same
force in meeting more active moves
of Villa at other points.
\\ \ NTS MOItK I1KKIMTH
II ATI-: l-'OH WITIinitAWA I.
In Ca rranza's latest representation,
it is understood, lie expressed a will
ingness to ratify the agreement if a
more definite date for the troop with
drawal were specified, and if a more
lenient attitude were displayed to
wards the quest ion of increased bandit
actVvity. Carranza holds that the pres
ence of the American troops on Mex
ican soil gives Villa pretext for urging
the disaffected to join him.
The report persisted to-day that Am
bassador ? Designate Arredondo had
been recalled by his government, and
that lie was to be succeeded by Con
sul de Negri, of San Krancisco, who
would be in charge without diplomat ic
rank. "Mr. Arredondo denied the story
categorically, and the State Depart
ment was without information.
SKVr.lt A I. lit M>KKI> SHOTS
rillKII INTO MKXICO
Kb I'ASO. TKX . December 2S.?Sev
eral hundred shots were fired across
the Kio tirande Into Mexico west of
here early to-day by members of the
Kentucky National Cuard, whose of
lieers declared that the fusillade was a
reply to shots tired from the Mexican
i < 'ontlnued on Second I'age.)
Funds Are Needed for
Receptio.i to Troops
Sacrifices for their country muilc
bj- the members ? of the Kirst \ Ir
giiiln Infantry rtcucru tlie recog
nition of lliose who remained com
fortably u( home. Home ties huvc
been broken. personal comfort
abridged and financial losses met
willingly bj these \ irginln boys,
ivhu left for the border when the
war clouds Here gathering. Thai
lliey hnve cheerfully endured the
liiirdNliI|ih of six tiioiilliM among the
Minds nod euctiis nloug the Itio
tirande is as much lo I heir credit ns
if tliey bad faced the bullets they
To kIiow- its appreciation of IIiIn
courage nnd manhood, llichmoiid
men ns to e\lcnd n hearty welcome,
one that will always be remembered
by the guardsmen. .Honey is needed
to carry out the plans of the com
mittee appointed by llnyor AIonIIo
to nrrange for tlie welcome.
All contributions Men! to ' The
TlineM-lHspntch will lie promptly
acknowledged.
German Newspapers
Are Not Optimistic
Over Note Exchange
hiave Little l~iope I hat En
tente A llies Will Send
Delegates to Peace
Confe\ e ice.
f llv A*.?<>? |'|f.s ]
i:i:itu.v. December _'7 (Via London.
December -S). Tliu promptness with
wliich Umnanj replied t.. President
Wils-.ns not.- is o mphnsi/.ed in the
eommem.s of ti,.. Kerllti newspapers.
The Muri!-,, Post says that (iorinanv'.s
spoo.lv answer should show President
Wilson that his note was appreciated
"according to its merits."
'I'll" Honrsen Zeltung. Tageblatt and
\orwaerts al.-o call attention to the
quickness of t h.- German if spouse ?s
a favorable factor in contrast with
*ic*I?iy of l In? oi* ton to.
Tl.o TaKchlatt speaks of , h. '?warmth
a'"1 clonrnoss" in the wording of i>r.
many's answer and thinks that the
entente governments in v\. w of the
strong language u.?cd hv M? t||o||.
l-r.tn.. Ministers, will need considerable
(i'"l a .satisfactory ro,dv to
America which will throw up.,,,' t,ie
central powers the odium of hinder!.,ir
pr-.tce.
i'.\ I'KH.H .MCI' OPTIMISTIC
AS T(? I'OM'MMDX.s
The p;,per?. howev.r. ,|? ?ot roach
optimistic conclusions has-d on th
exchange of notes. The Lokal An/.ell
uer says that it has not oven a remote
I'ellef that the allieS w,? SPnd
Kates to a peace conference if such a
step is recommended b> President Wll
*Oll.
The \orwaerts indorses Germany's
answer and notes the sharp contrast
in the vote of . he French Senate,
which it terms ine\. usable from a
Socialist standpoint. This paper favors
the publication in full <.r (ierinan peace
t-r.ns 111 order "to lei the French peo
ple see What a good peace, thev are
now able to obtain."
The Vossische Jieltung approves the
answer, but sees a danger for Ger
many in the American note because it
-ays. President Wilson wants a peace I
which leaves no hatreds behind and
I therein lies the danger for Germany 1
should America demand a seat at the j
peace negotiations. We are friendlv
jnnd peaceable." it concludes, "but still ,
strong and independent."
The Taegllscho Rundschau asks what
'resident Wilson will do if the en
j tonte rejects his note. "Will Secretary.
Lansing again sond Germany a .sharp
j warning of war." says the Uundschau. !
01 will President Wilson, in flrml.v
pursuing his purpose, bring pressure j
i upon those who reject his views'."'
The disposition of certain Pan-Ger- ,
! man newspapers to read an unfavora-i
| ble interpretation into the Austrian
and German replies is not shared in
official circles, where the iniorprota-!
tion generally voiced is that the reply
is in principle "a loyal acceptance of
I resident \\ ilson's suggest ion promot
ing the prospects of peace now and in
the future and an effort in the samel
direction as the original peace pro
posal of the centra) powers."
!>n:i:i> i.mjm a i ion ok
ItKA IM Afl KI'TA \f|.j
The speed with which the Austro- .
German answer was delivered is a
farther indication, according to a high
German diplomat. 01 the ready accep
tance here of President Wilson's ideas.
The Swiss note will be answered with
ill.- same celerity and in the same
general spirit and will convey in ad
dition a cordial tribute to the hospi
tality extended by the Helvetian rc-:
public to Invalid war prisoners.
The diplomat in question declared
that as far as what he considered the
Intimation in President Wilson's com
munication regarding the maintenance
of the territorial integrity of the
belligerents in an ultimate peace set
tlement the answer lay less with the
central powers than with their ad
versaries. The latter, be said, had
openly proclaimed as their goals of
war the detachment of Alsace-Lorraine
from Germany; Gallcia, Bukowina and
the Adriatic provinces from Austria-'
Hungary and Constantinople and Ar
menia from Turkey.
As tu the prospect that peace will
result directly from the present nego
tiations and interchange of notes, there
i- 110 marked display of optimism in
either official or unollicial circles.
I be example of the Portsmouth no-!
gotialions which ended the Japanese
Kussian War. is. however, .sometimes
recalled. The diplomat also expressed '
the personal opinion that the entente
probably would reject the German pro-!
posal for a conference in a neutral
country. He said that if the proposal
was accepted Switzerland was the most
probable place for the meeting be
cause its central position, telegraphic
facilities adeouate hotel accommoda
tions and the belief, he said, both sides!
had in its complete neutrality.
I VAMMOt S t.\ TKItMIXG
>OTi: "POI,I'll; ItKI'I .HAI,"
I Hy Assoi-liite.l l'r<".< |
PA If IS. December I'S. -The morning
newspapers to-day are unanimous in
!?"<?!,ot.nciiig the German answer to
President Wilson's note to the bollik
erems a polite refusal to comply with
!ils suggestions.
"Germany," says the Matin. "Inten
tionally -everses the terms of Presi.
dent Wilson's note and requests repre
sentatives , f the nations at war to
seat themselves at a conference t.?."?!<?
ami talis at .-.indom without known..;
whar they intend to s.-.y. she knows
the allies will never make peace on
the terms >Ji she a; present is dis
posed 10 offer, but during the period
of temporary slackening in hostilities
she will bo able to obtain fresh sup- .
(Continued ~o"n~Second T'agIv)~
Wilson Says He Will Veto
Public Buildings Bill
i Mv AhMK In ted I'rc.ss 1
\\ \s|| I N(iTO\, December -S.?
I'rrKldcnt \\ llNiin told culler* to-riny
lliul lir \> it III <1 veto the SUS.IMHI.Otlt>
pulilii' tin 11 il I n Mil if it comes In
liiin in Hie tiirni it Im now pciidlllu:
in tin* 11 on ne. lis iMlvm'atm Mrck
to olitnin ii rnlr for cmmlrieriitioii of
tlii* measure l?> tlir liouir noon nfter
tin- f lirlNtmiiN reeen*.
TEUTONS REPORT FRESH
luvuilet-s Well lleyoml Kimnik-Sarat,
Advancing on Uitilroad To
wiinl Kok.sliani.
U.OOO MOUK PKISONKKS TAKKN
Russians Said t<> Have IJctMi Forced
From Positions on Kast Itank of
Danube, Opposite llraila?<'onsid
erable Fighting in Verdun Sector
I My Associated t'roMs |
Mw latest ullU-i.il communication
from Her I in records fresh ad vances for
tli?- I i'U t on ii* allies against the Rus
sians ami Roumanians in Wnllaehia.
The invail. rs now are well beyond
Kiinnik-Sai.it. advancing aloim the
railroad toward Fokshani. Throe
thousand more prisoners ami twenty
two machine i!iin.< hav<> been captured
l'> Ihe invaders. hrluuiug the numbcr
of men taken in (he Himnik-Sarat
maneuver up to 10.22t>.
Although Hie Merliti War < Mllco re
ports that the Teutonic allies in Roh
t udja are kccpini; up their pressure
?ip.iinsl the Russians and Roumanians,
and have forced the Russians froin
fortified heiirht positions fast of Mat
? hin. on the east hank of the Danube,
opposite llraila, Potrr.grnd announces
that the Invaders south of the Danube
have been repulsed with heavy losses,
??xcepi at the village of Rakel. which
has been occupied by them. Rritish
armed motor cars, says Petrograd. did
great execution In this Hghtiug.
Considerable lighting has a era I u taken
place on the Verdun sector around Re
Mort Homme, arid on the eastern slopes
ol hill where the Germans made
an attack but were repulsed, and when
later the French began a bombard
ment of the German positions.
It Kl I I'll Ot "A I. HO >1IIA It IMI lv\TS
O.N Till-: hltKM II KHONT
Klsewhere aiong the French front
there have been reciprocal bombard
ments ami attacks by small patrol par
ties. interspersed with tights in the air
and aerial raids by French. Rritish and
< lermati aviators. In the encounters in
the air each side Is reported to have
lost machines.
In the Austrn-Ralian theater, the
weather has cleared and the artillery
duels have been renewed with vigor,
??specially on the I'arso front. In Mace
donia. except for Rritish attacks
against the Rulgarians northeast of
l<ak<* l>oiran. which Rerlin reports
were unsuccessful, comparative quiet
still prevails.
South of Rrody. in Galiria. the Ger
mans have brought their howitzers
into play against Russian positions,
end at various points have damaged
their trenches.
I'nollicial advices received in London
from Snloniki say the Creeks who sur
rendered to the Rulgarians at Kavala
and were Interned in Germany have
been ordered by King Constantino to
proceed to the Maoe''*.>ni?m front to
fight against the entente allies. SI-j
tnultauoously from Atnens comes an ]
unofficial dispatch announcing that
Greece is addressing another note to
the entente, declaring that unless there
is a change In the entente blockade.
Greece may be forced to seek the ad
vice of the nation concerning the course
to In- followed.
mt \ii.a t \i?i:it i-'ntK
FltO>l A t'HOSS II AM III :
lit* Associated Press ]
HKIM.IN, December ?_'? i via Savville). j
Mraila. the important Roumanian oil
and grain depot in Northeastern Wal
bichla, is under the tire of Gcrmano
Kuluarian cannon from across the
Danube, says the military critic of the
overseas News Agency in his review
to-da y.
I he remnant of the Roumanian
troops decimated in Wallnchia." the!
military critic writes, "retreated in
confusion lo-hlnd the River Ser-th for
the purpose of being reformed there
under Russian leadership. Simul-I
taneousiv the Russians, in strongly
prepared positions between Ttimnik
Sarat and the I'nnube. offered resist-'
mice in an effort t<. prevent a further
German advance towards the Sereth.
Consequently new and violent engage
ments occurred.
"The allied German and Austrn
Hungarian forces captured ;">.500 pris
oners in their tirsl rush ami gaincil
ground. The strongly fortified village
of Fiiipci'hti, situated in the center of
the position, on the railroad to Rraila,
fell into their hands, as well as adjoin
ing posit ions on both sides of the town.
The new Russian troops, which are in
strong force, appeared to show no
Kreater power <>f resistance than did
the Roumanians. The Gorman attack
was notably assisted by the surprlft- f
ingly ureal successes in Doltrudja.
where after the fall of Tultclut and
Isakcha, mil > the Matchin bridgehead
intervenes as a means of resistance,
iirailn, however, already is within
reach of the Germnno-Hulgarlan guns.
"In Macedonia no further attempts
(Continued ou Second Rage.) ~
ALL PEACE STEPS
TO BE REGARDED
AS CONFIDENTIAL
Wilson and Lansing Decide .
on Policy of Absolute
Silence.
NO COMMENT WILL BE MADE
ON ANY DEVELOPMENTS
Decision Made Known After Of
ficial Texts of German and Aus
trian Replies Are Received.
SKCIIKT K\<H.\\(iKS l?OSSFi:i.K
No Morn l.itfht on Atcitiiile ??r En
tente Thuti Has Hccii (iivon
Publicly. ?
I Mv A Pr*ss I
WASH I NGT< >N. DocnmliPr US.?A pol
icy of absolute silence regarding tho
peace negotiations has boon adopted
by President Wilson and Secretary
Lansing. " was slated officially to
day that all steps henceforth will bo
regarded as confidential. N'u comment
will bo made <>n any developments. and
rumors will not bo discussed In .any
\v a y.
Tito decision to pursuo this course
was ma do known jif'or the State l?
partmont had received tho official text
of tho (iortnan and Austrian replies to
President WllsonV identic notes to tho
I belligerents, proposing a discussion of
peace terms, and after It was learned
that the Teutonic powers would be
willing to permit a confidential ox
change of tentative terms If it be
came necessary to do so to bridge
gap threatening to prevent a gather
ing of peace delegates.
In many quarters the nflioia atti
tude was construed as indicating that
secret exchanges wore expected to fol
low. if thov did not precede tho formal
answers of the entente nations to tlm
notes of President Wilson and the
central powers. Because of the highly
confidential nature of any such ne
gotiations. It is pointed out. the in
termediary would be obliged to re
frain from admitting oven that they
wore in progress.
liKIIMANY KIIIST MI S'l'
IMllCATK COMHTKINS
So far as the entente governments
j are concerned, it is understood that,
little, if any, confidential information
has reached here to shed more light
j on their attitude than has been given
publicly in the speeches of their Pre
miers and the comment of thotr press.
Consequently, ihere is no disposition
here to doubt that tho allies unani
mously will refuse to enter any sort
of peace conference until Germany ha
indicated clearly on what conditions
she will slop lighting.
On the Teutonic side, while the reply
to President Wilson is regarded by the
German embassy as complying with
President Wilson's suggestion in offer
ing a method of procedure. Oermany
Is said to be willing to consider other
suggestions regarding methods from
any quarter, including her enemies.
The views of the German govern
ment further are represented as being
as follows:
If the entente considers that guar
antees for the future are the principal
elements to be achieved, and. lacking
confidence In the German government,
insists upon knowing something of the
guarantees that Germany willing to
give, the Horlitt government might
make some declaration regarding the
principles to which she is willing to
subscribe, leaving details for settle
ment at the proposed conference. The
German government considers that
there is but little to be gained in any
lengthy discussion of guarantees for
the future with the present war in
progress. In this connection, Germany,
it is asserted, never has intended that
the conference suggested should result
immediately in the establishment of
peace. It Is considered that It neces
sarily would be of a preliminary na
ture to determine whether it might not
be possible to end the war.
wnti.n cai.i. IX m-:i tk.\i.s
AKTKIl PHKI.IAIINAH Y A G It KK >! K NT
According to the German diplomats,
the plan Germany is proceeding upon
would provide that the delegates
should ilrst agree upon territorial and
immediately connected terms, and that
a preliminary treaty then should bo
settled upon. This completed, the Ger
man idea is to have all -the neutrals
called in to participate in considera
tion of the questions of guarantees for
the future. They regard it as a mat
ter for the conference to settle whether
the neutral nations should become
signatory to the entire peace treaty
or only to that part having to do with
guarantees for the maintenance of
peace in tho future, such as limitation
of armaments, formation of a ivorld
league to enforce peace and establish
ment of an international court of arbi
t ration.
Diplomats familiar with the view
point of Germany and her allies were
especially emphatic to-night in saying
that Germany necessarily would b >.
able to make much better terms in
confidential negotiations than In pub
lic. Tho radical element in German
politics, it is said, n ust be considered.
Pnder any circumstances, however, it
was said Germany would not consider
making peace If the entente should In
sist upon retnining Germany's !
colonies and requiring Germany, at the
same time, to evacuate all enemy ter
ritory now occupied.
In admitting to-day that no further
communication had accompanied the
German or the Austrian reply to the
I 'resident's note, officials Minted ilatlv
that such questions f-? this effect iti
the future would not be answered.
The official texts of the German and
the Austrian replies, received to-day.
varied slightly from each other and
from the original cabled press transla
