ippt -trzg&mF"
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Eimttn
STRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
-r
-.- a
imhmt
m t r
f
. C ,
VOL. III. NO. 91
TWINING ASKS
CERTIFICATES
FOR TRANSIT
Director Applies for
"Public Convenience"
Authorization
EAGER FOR QUICK BIDS
TO START WORK SOON
blanket Form Omits Cer
tain Lines for Legiti
mate Reasons
DELAYS ONLY TEMPORARY
& Darby "L" nnd Spurs to Broad
Street Subway Chiefly
Affected
'. Transit Director W. 8. Twining mnde for
ma! application to the State Public Service
Commission today for a cortirtcato of public
convenience authorizing tho city to proceed
at onco with the- construction of the entire
subway and elevated high-speed lines pro
Tided In tho Taylor plan, with rho exception
of the Woodland iivcmie elevated to Darby
and several short sections of other lines,
the routes of which lime not been fixed yet
by Councils.
On account of tho Importanco-of tho proj-
. ects Director Twining decided to have the
;) applications prcsonted to tho commission
Instead of mailing them, as Is tliu usual
custom, Accordingly, Assistant Director
Oeorgo T, Atkinson left for Hnrrlsburg at
10:25 this morning nnd filed tho applica
tions this afternoon:
Ono nnnllcntlon Is In blanket form nnd
asked for authority to proceed ImmedfX
with work on
The Ilrond street subway from
League Island to Olney avenue.
The subway delivery loop In the cen
trnl bnelness district.
The Parkway-JOth strret-ItAxbnroaah
abway-elerated from City Hall to the
upper end of ltoxborough, nnd
The second application asks authority to
proceed wllhi
The three-mile extension to th
Frankford elnrated between 'lirldge and
Ithanrn street.
' A similar application for the Darby "I."
i ,
' Cantlnurd.on Face Five, rolunm Two
FREEZING
Concourso Lako was opened to sknters today, but though the temperature wni bolow freezing nearly nil day, t he other park mKcs were slow in uc
umcourso i.aKo was JJ, wjn a so,d :,,. Thcr0 was also sknting at Morion and the old Chestnut Hill Park lake.
fl ..
PRESIDENT ASSAILED
AS 'SUB ROSA' DIPLOMAT
JThree Senators Point Out Danger
to Country. in Secret.
Negotiations
WAHifivcrnv. Tieo. 9. Three United
"fotaiM KAnntnr imlnv denounced the recent
P handling of this country's International af-
: lairs aa a reversion to secret uhmuiw.
They declared that net only had recent
,taatters been hedged about with secrecy so
R far ai ilia nuhlln was concerned, but that
Bl vn th. u.nnfA vnrelirn Relations Commit-
I- Ue tod not been given opportunity "to know
-What la going on."
! Th Kxnntni-a uhn Ihua voiced disapproval
of this Government' methods In handling
the country' foreign affair are romueuer,
of Washington I Week, of Massachusetts,
and Sutherland, of Utah,
My understanding- Is that the present
I JtrimlnlatMtfnn tins H.MflrA Itflalf an 8T
idsnt foe to secret diplomacy," said Poln-
taexier. "in practice, however. na
lltsejf a paetmaster In the' art of mystery
1 and concealment
3 There, nro veiled rumors of recret poll-
'alea affectln thn vital Interests of the
V'tutt..,,-.. - uf-t. u- Ti-.BiAn U.I11 Aaramll
t -Y"MJ U WU1CM H9 -jp.WMfc ... -w -
Continued ou Pag Vour, Coluaa Strta
THE WEATHER
! . .-- I I
FOBBOAST
I J'or Philadelphia ana t)fctHy fair owJ
Ulightiv colder tonight, with lowett about
RtS degrees; Saturday air and continued
scold; gentle iuaitcrlu telnds.
I.XKGTU OF Tt.VH
rr2 ca
Bm .,
saiuixia
4 it a.m. t-iieea. aoutlu. 4S p-m-
UELAVfABK UIVKIl TIHE CIIANOKJ
lwur OlWam IKUb w ,4-fiSS-
vtu . I Ew wUr. IJ
nriittiru t-rtrrv AT l'tnil ItOUK
PERLIN SEES FAILURE OF PEACE
PLEAS; EXPECTS FIERCE DRIVES
BY ALLIES ALONG ALL FRONTS
Soldiers and Diplomats Believe Efforts
of President Wilson, the Central
Powers and Switzerland
Will Not Succeed
TENTATIVE PEACE TERMS REPORTED
EMBODIED IN GERMAN PROPOSAL
rpiIERE must be n policy of mutunl restitution, mutunl restoration' nnd
- mutual guarantees.
Thin means that Germany's colonial empire must be Riven bnck to her
in return for the restoration of Entcnto territory occupied by tho Central
, Restitution for dnmaRo from tho invasion of Belgium nnd Sorbin will bo
Riven as fnr ns similar restitution is mnde for dnmnRcs inflicted in East
1 russin nnd Translyvnnta by the enemies of tho Central Powers.
' Ttfffi tcrritorinlWrrnnRcmcnt must be based upon a "tradeoff."
While Germany would prefer to leave the question of Riinrantccs ngalnst
future wars to be settled after the conclusion of peace, yet should tho Entente
towers insist, she would not be nvcrso to making known In nilvnnco her
general proposnls to this end.
Germany would ngrco to n confidential exchange of pence terms through
I resident Wilson preliminary to n gathering of delcgntcs if it became neces
sary to insure such Catherine.
Tho pence conference would bo
ligcrcnt Powers, until such time ns
miurc wars snoum arise, wnen representatives of the United States nnd other
noutrnls would bo invited to bo present.
LONDON, Dec. 29.
The Entente's reply to the German peace note has been completed. It Is
being transmitted to the various Allied capitals before delivery, which means
that it may not be sent to Washington before the middle of next week. It had
been confidently predicted in diplomatic circles that it would go forward today or
tomorrow.
The document will be transmitted to Germany through the American
Government. It is a comprehensive document, much longer than the German note.
By CAUL W. ACKERMAN
BERLIN, via wireless to United Press, Dec. 129.
Judging from unofficial reports from tho front nnd diplomatic comment, tho
peace efforts that President Wilson, the Central Powers and Switzerland nro now
making will not Buccccd immediately in bringing tho wnr to nn end.
That the wnr will not end without tho Allies making nnothcr gigantic,
concentrated effort to break tho German front is indicated by tho nrtlllcry
prcparations'which nro being mnde.
England in tho west, her allies in Grecco nnd Russin in Rumania apparently
expect to ncccpt Von Hindcnburg's challenge for winter battle.
WEATHER AGAIN
HOT RUINS GUARDED
TILL GEMS ARE FOUND
Valuable Jewelry in Mount
Holly Hotel Wrecked by
Explosion
- t
Special policemen today are guarding the
ruths of the Madison Motet nt Mount Holly,
N". J., wrecked yeaterday by an explosion of
acetylene gas tanks. In which two men were
killed, and a aeoro Injured.
The guard around the ruins waa deemed
necessary Jn order to protect valuable Jew.
elry from thieve In the wreckage" are
m believed to be worth fSOOO and up
ward. Whether the gems were ruined In
the fire or whether they ar still In the Iron
safe will be determined lata thla afternoon
when Mra. Ilobert M. Snyder, proprletreaw
qf the hotel, opepa the box.
noth'Mra. Hudson, aged mother of Mrs.
Snyder, and Nathaniel' Thomaa, one of the
hotel porter were reported aa In a critical
condition, thta afternoon.
Thla announcement followed shortly after
the convening of the Coroner'a Jury to
view the bodlea of the two dead, Ilobert
M. ffnyder aud, Charles Oray. 'Coroner
fjaeklll said hi would fix the data for the
ujuet later. The losa from the expkwlen
waa IJ0.090. of w.hkh but little more than
pne-fhlrd waa covered by Immranee.
U, g.-Chlnese Trade Increases
WASHINGTON. D- , J -Amertwn
trade wlib. China continue to grow In sptM
of the fast that the export and Import
tralJUJ of the CeleatUl Bmplro will tw tlw
LoaliMt for thla year In many Consular
SSorU show that ixporU from Hong Kong
forth United 6Ute for lh first nine
compared with the wme period In lit.
imnorU have suffered on account of the
l?Jh oricT of fiour and kerosene, the ehlef
Canada's Postmaster General Dead
OTTAWA Qt.. Daa S Ho. T. Cteae
day after WW
limited to representatives of the bcl- '
tho question of guarantees to prevent i
Continued en rase Four, Column Three
CALLS SKATERS OUT
ROADS READY TO MEET
STRIKES FIRST OF YEAR
General Walkout Not Expected,
Though Brotherhoods Insist
Law Be Enforced
NKW YOHK. Dec. JJ. -The railroads and
brotherhoods again ware lined up for tattle
today. The manager wr pushing to
completion tlia plana they began months
ago to oombat strike on January I. The
brotherhood ohlef h departed for their
home, where lhy will watch developments.
Their plans are made.
Jt Is generally conceded by bolh aide
fiwit there will be noceneraj walkout Jan
uary I. Sporadic outbreaks, however, are
oonfjdenlly existed arul It I these that
the manager are prejwHns for.
The railroads, reports aald today, are
preparing for any emergency. They stead
fastly averted they would stick to an agree
ment '""h Attorney General Gregory
that the Adamoon eight-hour law shall not
be put into effect until the Supreme Court
ha pouted on It. Then. If It Is held con
stitutional,, they will nay In accordance
with ita provisions dating from January 1
Thta attitude I entirely unacceptable to
the brotherhoods. They inaUtad at th con
frM that tho law b put Into oiratteq
the Ant of tho year, aa provided. The Ur,
they pointed out, I on the statute'beok and
1 a Jvuntll It 1 deotared unconstitutional
'NO BAIL VOll WOMAN SLAYEU
Mr, Josephine Richards, Who Stabbed
Husband, Held for Grand Jury
Mr. Joaepbln Richard, SO year old.
who killed her husband Decorober it, waa
held without ball by Coroner Knight this
morning to await the action of the drand
Jury. The huahaad. Houston lllehards.
forty yearn aU. wa stabbed with a knife
U a. quarrel at their horn in the rear of
t08 CiimbrWgo atraet.
Mr, lltohanis eoJIapsed after the Cor
onsr' anoouttooianL So will be taken
before Judg Staakv, of the MuuxlUaeou
Court, oa a writ o Sabta oorpuA,
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER
CALL ON WitSON
FOR LEAK PROBE
Direct Appeal, to President
for Congressional In
vestigation ASK LAWSON FOR PROOF
Administration Loaders Bitter
at Chnrgc Representatives
Profited
WARiUNOTtlN. Dec. Preeldenl Wll
eon will lie appealed to illreetly to sanction
a probe by Congress of allegation that
through a leak In hl propoed peace plana
a stock market raid was nemlbte. Tills
w mide plain today by the men who
are tacking the proposed probe. They any
that they will wait to see what nctlon the
House ltulea Committee take on the Wood
resolution aiithorltliig the Imretlgntlon. If
It does not act then the President will be
.requested to urge t tiecevdty of the In
vestigation. The declaration by Thomai W. twson.
that members of Congress benefited by the
leak Is being used today by Kcpresentntlxe
Wood ns a strong argument In faor of
his plan. H'wil Insists that the lwaon
charge was an Insult to the entlm member
ship of Ciingreait. and that It must Iw met
by n full and untrnmmeled Investigation
lteireniatl Uenry. chairman of the
House Itules Committee, takes a similar
view In a bitter telegram to Uiwson nt
llostnn he today demanded that he "pro
duce the good or cense slandering Congress
nnd public officials ' The telegram follows:
Whatever you may think, the entire
world bellee that President Wilson Is
atrltlng for peace In Huron. All good
men will say, 'Cod bleaa the man who
takei een one step In that direction "
Instead of endeavoring to bring this
peace movement of the Administration
Into disrepute, ns u decent nnd patrlotlo
clllxen. jou should be defending It.
Don't try to besmirch this Administra
tion by senseles generalities. If you
he any proof (which I douht from
the mnnner of nur statement) come
immediately to Washington and confer
with me. If you have nny facts (which
I cannot think from your methods) lay
them before me and they shall havo tho
consideration due them. You should
now accept my Invitation and produce
the goods, t'ut up or shut up Ccnao
slandering and libeling Congrem nnd
public olllclala or mako good on j our
charges.
It Is admitted that tho governors of the
.Stock Kxchange would willingly co-operate
In any Investigation
TO PARK
U. S. FACES DILEMMA
AS CARRANZA BALKS
MuHfc Break Off Negotiations or
Yield Somewhat to First
Chief's Demands
WASHINGTON, Dec. 19 The American
Government today found Itself In n diplo
ma tlo quandary r the Mexican situation.
It ha'd tu (I wide whether to stay by Its
gun and tell Carransa that the American
Mexican peace caronUwIon U ended. In
view of the failure to sign the protoeol, or
whether to relax frem a recently Arm posi
tion and yield to the First ChUfa' further
Importunate appeal for modification of the
agreement.
The. last word before be answered de
mands for signing waa substantially thl:
We have put In three month framing
thla protocol It reprent our beat
efforts, Wa cannot ulter It, You must
answer by December Si.
In subatanor Carranxa baa fulled wholly
to meet thee demand. Ill answer la so
framed that It word are Intended to mol
lify tha American Government and appeal
for a little more change.
Th American eommlaaioner are sched
uled to meet soon to consider It. Then there
will be "a Joint lon at whleh their
answer will be preaented. jnd If the tem
per of the American ld haa not eooled,
thrf answer, aorae heret believe, will be,
"We are don with peac negodathww.''
. But ofJUIaU JiandUn" Mxln mat
tar kept thir own eoual a atofaiy a
thoaa official handttag th Kuroeaan paaoa
altuatloiv. Whether they woOd deckle to
atand par or stralo a point and modify th
protocol and ooatlau deliberation wa
an unanswered o,ustlon.
Meantlra. Mexn Ambasaador-daolg-note
Arrodondo llogsred in th capital,
apparently Bflued in not taking hi
scheduled departure Ucau he did not'
want It to appear that his laave-taklng
wa linked with Carranxa' failure to com
ply with the American demand.
Th linking of the two would lead to
glv affair a bHI"rBt too; whra
Carranxa, I thouaW la taany quajrter to
b destnuuf really of having th American
xpediUoR ilar la alaxtco whU VUkt I
active. tKMfejh fee vaaaot ay It la no nany
word aaXlyU us4 before bt pojU,
OertannT,
29, 191G
QUICK
GOVERNOR CALLS ON RAMDO AND BREITINGER TO RESIGN
Oovcrnor IlrttmuftURh this nftornoou naked (or the rMilRimtlons
ot Sftiuuel II. Knmuo ns Superintendent of Public QrounitB nnd llulld
iugn nnd of J. louts nreltlngcr nn ehnlrninn of the Hoard ofMovlnn
Picture Cuor. IUmbo U reglsterctl ns of Dntinhln County nnd
Ilreittnger Is n rhllndelphtnu.
WOMAN AND CHILDREN RESCUED FROM PLAMES
Tlnee chlldten mid n fnltitltig wonmn were canted by firemen
to safety through Binoke-tillctl lmlln while n flic destroyed thn rest
deuce of Samuel Orntt, 2123 South Fourth street, this nftetuoen.
Those lescucd were Tin. Ornft nnd her children, Isrncl, George nml
Mike. The blnze did ?1D00 dntungc.
TWO AIORG SHIPS. NOHSE AND BUITISII, SUNK
LONDON'. Dec. !9. Tho Norwexlnn trninshlji ldn, 1300 tons, nnd tho llrltlsh
stettmshlp Comwood. 600 tons, Imvo Iwcn sunk.
KR1TAIN MAY TAKE OVER THE LIQUOR TRADE
LONDON, Dec. S9. Tim imtrhnso of the ilrluk trndo by tho Government Is
bollexnt 'to be Imminent, myn tho Dully Kxpro.M. It oatlmnles the cost nt nbout
Jl.600,000.000. Drnsllo meniuren In curtnll thn production nnd sale of whisky ilml
beer nro under contemplation by tho Government. Tho moM fnr-renclilnn; restric
tions nrc pniMscd for Ioiulun ntul the mnmifm'tiirlng centers.
$1,000,000 FIRE SWEEPS TORONTO CAR BARNS
TOIIONTO. Out, Deo. 2a.-Tho lCInu hlrect Imrns'of tho Toronto Street Itnll
Jny were deitrojcd by lire today. The lox.1 Is estltuntcd til nearly li million iloltnrn.
Three hundred cari wero destroyctl. The lire iitmtcd In tlio repair nhop.
HUNGARY IN GALA ARRAY FOR KING'S CORONATION
ItL'DAPKST, Dec. 13. Hungary Is In gain nrrny for the coronntlon of Kmpcror
ICnrI nt King of Hungary. An riithuslnstlc reception was neenrded the jtiimg rulor
nnd his wlfo yestenlny. Crowds massed In the strectst from tlio rnllrond Httitlon to
the pnlnco gave thn cniiplo n continuous ovation. The city Is gnyly decorated with
Hags. Tho ceremony of tho coronntlon la to tnlfo plu tomorrow. Today Cardlnnl
Iernocli, with n number of the lendliiK tneinlter of the Hungarian Parliament,
presented tho new Kmpcror with n coronation diploma, which bolh the King nnd
Queen Rlgned. v
BANDITS WRECK TEXAS SAFE FOR $6000
DKNNIHON, Tex. Dec. 20. Hlx bnmlltH dynninltcd tho vntilt of tho bunk nt
Hngermnn, eighteen lulled west of here, today, eNcnpIng with IC00O.
$8,C:)0,000 MORE IN GOLD COMING FOR MORGAN
Another shipment of gold nmouiitlni; to 53,Cr,O,000 nrrlved nt tho Mint today,
consigned to J. I', Morgan A Co., from Canada. Yesterday n shipment of $8,000,000
reached tho Mint.
PRICE OF OIL SOAR9.AT PITTSBURGH
PITTSUUIUIII, Dec. 2?, All prlco recordn for i'ennsylvnnln olln were nmshcd
today when Inrrcniiei of from flvo toiten ccntii n burrel were announced.
BRITAIN NOW SHIFTING WAR ORDERS TO CANADA
NIIW YOHK. Dec. 29. Canada hns nsfltunod tho burden of supplying tho major
part of (Jrent Ilrltnln'a munition. It wn.i atntoil In banking circles today. Ordcm
totaling hiimlrcn of iiiIIIIoiih of tlollnrn have boon diverted from American factories
to those of tho Dominion. .
U. S. ATTORNEYS PLAN WAR' ON FOOD JUGGLERS
NKW YOHK, Dec :9.- -t'ulted States AttnrmM from ovory district on the Atlan
tic coast from Malno to Virginia nre meutlug here today In tho olllco of Assistant
Attorney (Jenernl Frank M. Hwnvkvr to lclo wayn nml me.'in.i of prosecuting ier
sons who hno vlolaleil tho law In forcing high food prices.
CONCOURSE ONLY PARK LAKE OPEN FOR SKATERS
Concourse Ijiko In Kalrmouul luk was ojienoil to Hkutcrx today. No other
lako or streum In I'lilrinoiint I'arU or Hunting I'nrlt has n RUIllclent coating of Ico
tu permit skating. Merlon nml Chestnut Hill lukos wero also oponed to alinterH.'
ARGENTINE GRAIN CROP OFF MORE THAN HALF
WAHHINdTON, Dec. 19 ArgcntlnaH grain hnrvoat thla yenr will bo otio of
tho poorest tho country uver has noon, duo to Injury by droughts nml locusts. Con
sular reimrta received wild tho amount of whwU avnlloblo for export this yonr Will
total not moro than 1.000,000 tons. Normally, 2,(00,000 tons nru oxportinl. Cereal
prices nro the highest ever known. A ton of Wheat Is nbout thliiysuveii bushel,
LANCASTER TO (JIVE UANQUET TO ITS GUARDS
I.ANCASTKIt, I'n., Dee. 29. Ailvlton from Camp Stewart, Kl Paso, say the
Kourth lleglment will go direct to HnrrlsburK when It leaven tho boVder, Jnnunry 0,
nnd parade before Governor Ilrumlmugli. Then tho various companies will bo nent
to their home. Lancaster will give n bnnitict for Hit companion.
' THREE PENNSYLVANIA NEWSPAPERS RAISE PRICES
T1JTHHV1I.1.B, l'a., Doc. 29. The Herald, Tllutvillo'a only newppor, nnnouneed
nn Increnso In Uh iibsurltlon rntoH to twelve cents n week nnd nil ndvimco In iipaco
advertising rat amounting to ten per cent. Tho change will be effective January 1.
DANVIIXIC. Pb., Doc. 29. The Dunvlllo Morning New. Danville's only dally
paper, nnnouneed that, beginning January 1, single copies of th paper would veil
for two cent nnd that the monthly subscription prlee would be thirty-live vent.
v -
MoKKHHI'OHT. V., Hoc. S3. The McKeesport Dally News has nnnouneed Jhut
on January I It will Increns Ihe price oflnglu ooplew from one to two cenw.
SCHLESWIG YOUTHS OF 17 TO BE CALLED TO COLORS
LONDON, Deo. 39. A apoclal dliatcli from (,'opeiiliaKeii nays that nocordlng to
the ItlbA rlllftaftdende It Is expected tlwt youths or Kchlcwwlg who have completod
thelr-aoventeanth year will bo aummoned for . physical oxuiiiliia(loii In January.
After a short training Hiom who uro found lit will l ent tu tlio front.
FIRST RUSSIAN SHIP IN MONTHS IN NEW YORK
KHW YORK, De. 29. I'or the first time In nearly three month, a hlp rlyltiK
lit UuIan flag tied up at a New York pier. She was the Vologda, out of Archangel
December 3, and Is here In ballast, to take cargo for an unnamed pert.
117 COMMISSIONED AS SECOND LIEUTENANTS
WASHINGTON, Deo. 29. One hundred and seventeen Honeommiaclonod oflleer
of the regular army, regular private nnd formw oHlero of tho I'hlllppln ei4t.
received provisional cotnml(on a second lieutenants in the army.
--
1916 AUTO LICENSES GpOU UNTIL JANUARY 15
JIAIlRIHBUna, Do. . Tin 8Ut Highway Departmwit bbwwjjibI today
that 191? automobile Iken would be ronognliod until January li, 1917, Cummla
stoner Klaek writ .word to tU polto autlutritls of varlou oitl that owing to
the nondelivery ef pUter by th manufacturers It would bo igipoaalble to semi out
ytW plat a rapdlly aa apnltoattoaa are nuolvod. At the cloe of uulna jester
day the amount received for 1917 llconaos Was 1St,iti.
"WYOMING" MILITARY TRAINING IN CHICAGO 'SCHOOLS
WASHINGTON, Doe. . Captain B. B. aHvor. U. 8. A., originator of tho
"Wyoming plan" of military training (or beya awl girts in public high schools,
today we oder4 to Chicago by the War JHturtment to fautkl up hi system q
the twaty-ltur4i hlsh school of that 4tg. Chteago I the Jr4t, 4ty of the oun-
txy to a4pttJwbplaa.
!
1019, it tnt roue 1-m Cawnxt.
NEWS
PRICE ONE CENT
PENRQSE DUCKS .
AFTERACCUSING
SERVICEB0ARD
Confei'a With Workers
in Effort to Elect
Speaker
PREDICTS AN EASY
BALDWIN VICTORY
Senator Promises Probe of
Commission as Sopn ns
His Man Leads House
CHARGES LAW FIRM ALSO
Brumbnujrh "Cornea Bnck" With
Threat to Put Foes Out
of Business
Henator llolea Penrose, after walling for
the helgnt of Ihe storm raised by hi threat
of n jirobo of the Publle Service Commis
sion, ducked Into tho storm cellar today.
Instead' of making statements, the senior
Senator went Into conference nt noon with
stalwart leaders the Hlate over to discus
Inst-mluute plans for the election of hi
candidate for Hpcaker ot the House, "Dick"1
llnldwlu.
Closeted with Penrose were Ilatdwln him
self, Henator McNIchol, Henator ftprourj
'Tickler" Knyder, Auditor (lencrnl-olectt I
Harmon 31, Kephart, Statu Trensurer-elect I
W. Harry linker, secretary pt tho Itepub
llcnn State committee t T. larry Byre, Stater
,'iotmtor-eket ; Congressman-elect Thomaa
Templeton, of I.uierne County: Charle
Johnson, Penrose lender of Montgomery
County.
Thn only Information given out, follow
ing tho ferocious blasts nt the Public Henr
ico Commission, wan that Daldwln would
hnvo ifmnjorlty In tho caucus nnd, In addi
tion, would bo able to corral twenty-two
Democratic otc on the floor of the HoAf
when tho etectlon I staged on Tuesday.
"There haa been no break away from
llnldwln.'1 Pcnroee leaders said In pre
dicting u llaldwln lctory.
TiiitHATi:.a puoin:
Senator Penrose's rap at the Publlo
Uam-Ip, linm.lawlnn .wan Iln1,1 vl.l. t.
' " """ --- -M" - ( jwj1.jm
lltlcnl octlrltfoa of the body under th-'
Ilrumbnugh administration woulit be an
of tho first results of llaldwln' .election to
the Speakership, v
Thla brought forth the rejoinder from
flnemor llrumbaugh that ho would devqte
thn remainder of his term to rendorlng the
leadership of Peifroso Impotent, nn lin
iwtency, he explained, that would be tl
mora complete with the election ot Cor.
"mil" l'llim, former Hull Moose backer,
nnd many labor leaders nlao camo out vita
cracks at Dubinin. ,-
Penroso put the law llrm of Simpson,
Ilruwn H Williams under thn category with
the Public Service Commission and took; a
"hacli" nt both.
"Ilunlncas Interest," ho raid, "lire dis
turbed and Irrllntcd over tho way the com
mission Is being conducted The law pro
vldon that no member of the commission
shall be a candldnte for office, nnd it wa
clearly Ihe Intention of the law to keep tha
commission out of politic."
HITH AT LAW l'UtM
l'eiirono then pointed out thnt ninety per
cent of thn cases conducted before th
commission had been represented by one
or two attorney. He referred to Attorney
(leuerul frauds Hhunk Ilrown'n law firm a
one that "hn developed n remurkabl
facility In appearing on both s.dca of liti
gation." '
Wllllnni.i, of the law firm, declined to
tnko notice of the charges- He waa th
only member of the firm In town. Attorney
fleiieral llrnwn waa reached nt Hnrrirburg
nnd dismissed the charge as "untrue."
It waa learned thla afternoon Senator
Penrose, would llvo nt the Vara headquar
ter during the hectic hour beforo th
llepubllcau caucus on the Speakership nt
Harrlaburc next Monday night That Is.
the senior Senator will llvo nt the Senate
Hotel, where Vnro headquarter will be.
and direct Ihe campaign for ''Dick" llald
wln from headquarter across the street In,
the Commonwealth Hotel
Peuroae, Senator McNIchol and Hproul
and McNIchol leader will leave for the
batllefront tomorrow' afternoon at 3JB
o'clock. Just five hour after Ihe vanguard
of the Vare contingent depart, with Henator
"15d." Congressman "Jllll" and Senators
Pnttou, Salus. Jenkins, Smith and Martin.
The I inlluenllal leader In tha Vara
camp, together with those who ore unable to
get awny as early a tomorrow, will leay
on Monday morning In two special car.
CHARLES S. WALTON BURIED
Services for Manufacturer and PhJInn- r
throplstt nt St Davids
Funeral service for Charle B. 'Walton,
leather manufacturer and philanthropist,
wlw died last Tuesday, were held today at
hi homo In St. Davids, Interment wae la
Wt I-aurel Hill Cemetery
The aervlee were conducted by th liar.
I), John II. O. PUlge. pastor of th Kourth
llaptbH Ohurcli. Klfth and Ilultonwood
trt. We wo aalted by th Uev. Percy
Wllnwt, pastor of the Central llaptlst
Chureli at Wayne.
Th honorary pallbearer were Dr. Oeorg
I H. Jameson, Jams Salen, I). Knteker
baekftjf lJoyd. William Hal. An Wine Hour
uobvitU. Oeerg 1(. MeKIy. Frederlek Q.
IIJboR Clement J. Craft, Joseph Moore.
$ai)Ul B- Vasduen. Spencer K. Mulfurd.
WUUaw McAdil, Mahlon R Oryan and
Curll MullJn. f.
rf' ' t"
ANOTHER SKETCH
By
CHARLES DANA GIBSON
appeara -on
PAGENJNE
QtTQDAY$
- wnXa'
"l 1U il 13 1 1 L f-3'313
ffll 31 1 31 1 I 3B I X'WI I -
".V
' --'-i' ' r
PM-jsliiiitfmairtfwwBiBaiasl
yip
fazi?
