S, -.1. .. IM
L: a. .ari.0" -lwn a; e A*ei an.1..., m ea i io.bum
i roi& T. e as f ...M..t.r T.c ..
the
NO t37e ad EA iL tBR W-AN, - ONE W , *
badifc . I " U11m mg aei-oI
NO. 3720. WEUR-FAER; COLDER. WASHINGTON. D. C., FRIDAY, DECEMMER 29, 1916. ONE CENT-"=A.a~~oftrc *
GERMANY EAGER .
TO MAKE PEACE
Further Coneions May Be
Ofered, Washington
Believes.
TERMS PROBABLY KNOWN
Suite H....c,.aa wit& Un...n-.
ing of Comitions Teutone
Have Advanced.
Continued agitation by Germany for
pease in the tee of the appreintly im
iMevable opposition of the entente powers.
was last night accepted in Wahington as
the most encouraging development In the
peace situation.
Count von Bernstorff. the German Am
baseador. reiterated his declaration that
Germany Is earnest in her desIre to end
the war.
Diplomatic Washington accepted this
statement as Indicating that the central
powers may be willing to go further in
stating their definite peace alms.
Temas Now Available.
The German Embassy made it clear
that a statement of the terms proposed
by the central allies-in more or less
de~nite form-is now available to the
- mted States, under seal of secrecy.
Secretary Lansing declared that . all
questions as to this "confidential" matter
were clearly improper. and declined to
discuss It. It was clear, however, that
Germany has submitted to this country
her Informal plan for allowing the United
Stites to handle her peace terms until a
similar declaration can be secured from
tOh" entente allies.
Advices to Washington from American
riplomats abroad. and through belliger
ent representatives here, were to the ef
fret that while the entente powers are
still jointly preparing a reply to the Ger
moan peace advances. they will steadfast
ly maintain their refusal to discuss peace
inI Glernany has made her terms clear.
The formal copies of the German and
Austrian replies to the President's pe.e
note were received at the State Depart
nent today without comment. Both were
laId before the President. who likewise
refused to discuss them. The ofIcial text
of the notes differed but little, and only
in irshnificant details from the published1
versiore.
No Action at Preseat.
The State Department and the White
I louse took the ittitude last night that
there was nothing for the United States
to do toward peace until the formal
reply of the entente powers to the Prest
dent a note has been received.
Neutral dIplomats. however, declared
tIe, the general policy of neutral in
dorsement of tha, President's proposals
would be continued. ad that specific In
dorsements miht be .offclally receivedq
from the Scandinavian nations. Holland.
and the South American countries at
any time
Senor Calderon, the Bolivian Minister
and dean of the Latin American diplo
rMattc corps. said that joint action by
the South American nations was
to be expected promptly. A change
of ministry in Bolivia has delayed ac
tion clichtly. and Minister Calderun yes
4 terday cabled the new Premier, Senor E
Sanches, for instructions. Central Amer
i-an countries are expected to follow 1
closely the action of the South Amerl
(an nations.
The German Embassy was emphatic in I
its declaration that the peace advances I
c! the central powers were bona fide.
end in denying published reports that,
the peace proposals were designed to'l
forestall a serious treak with the United I
Stat.- Over the question of submarine I
warfar,.
GERMANY TO WORK FOR
FUTU2E WORLD PEACE
(By the Internatieal News Serviee.)
Berlin (via Sayville, Dec. 2.-Germany
in her reply to the Swiss note takes
particular pains to emphasiae that as
far as the safeguarding of the world's
r peace in the future. the Imperial govern
ment fully agrees with the view ex
pressed by President Wilson in his re
cent note to the belligerents.
"In accordance with the President ofl
the United States.' savs the German re-11
ply to Switserland. "the imperial gov
ernment is of the opinion that the great
work of the prevention of future wars
only can be begun after the termination
of the present struggle.'
In emphasizing this point, the German
government manifestly refers to this
passage In President Wilson's note:
"In the measures to be taken to se
cure the future peace of the world. the
people and government of the United
States are as vitally and as directly' In
terested as the governments now at war.
* * But the wIO1nust first be con
cluded.''
In its note to 8witserland. Germany
reiterates that "as soon as this moment
has come it will be ready with pleasure
to collaborate at this exalted task."
RUTLESS "M WAR CONING.
New York. Dec. .--Germany will inau
gurate 1917 with a ruthless submarine war
fare on all shipping. according to Arm
gamrd Karl Graves. the self-styled formers
German spy who recently was arrested 1
en charges of blackmaIling Countes von I
Bernstorff.
'Tlhe pledges given tia country will be
forgotten." said Graves. Hte declIned te j
say where he received his information. i
DENIES HE SAW GIRL'S ANL.
Chicago, De. 3.-Peter Zyla today de-I
naie ththe eves-saw the ankle of pretty
aelDaily, movie actress, andhe
to win Si.fO by proving that he did get..
Peter is asking an insurance comparet
to pay him that amount on the ground
that he was blinded by an accident. A
movie film taken by the company on the
street and purporting to show Peter gaz
ing adoringly as Miss Daily lifted her
skirts, is a "fake." says Ptr
DYEAMiTE GANG ACTIVE,
osi-mi - .L Dee, S.-Dyamter
salty toda .rse the house until a
S few years age oseepied by Charles T'.
ltuehisam. mammeger of a mining end eden
I'tile journal, who for months has been
the recipient of bis.ohmni letters.
The Police med Postal authorities de..
dlare the explodes was the work of the
gamg whish dmeded that Gor. Htiram1
Johns depot SMSin geld oso in a
esnab place under Penalty at having his
kwgr Attempbto Bain
Wmman's Hlme After An
Entrance with False Key
While Mrs . LH. Beverly was busy in
ha seIn foor of her hipe, 1718 Fifth
treet northweet, last night. an unifes
Wed intruder opened the front door
rth a duplicate key and deposited a
mndle of oil-soaked rage under the steps
ading upstairs and applied a match and
apeated the act in a cupboard.
Before the are had gotten any head
ray. Mrs. Beverly. smelling the smoke,
uned down stairs and extinguiahed the
mee before they gained much head
pay. The incendiary has not been iden
led. as he had made his escape before
he fire was discovered.
[EUTONSCHECKED,
tusso-Rumanians Stemming
kdvance Along Sereth River.
By the internatieaal News Servies.)
Teutons and Russians are embattled In'
ne of the most fateful battles of the war
,n the forty-mile front south of the.
rocsami-Braila line, which forms the last
ortlied barrier to the Teuton advance
efore the final onslaught on the Sereth
ine can be undertaken. 1
With the embittered stubbornness of
roops trying to wai off the menace of
avasion. the Muscovite forces, re-en
broad by fragments of the shattered
tMianas army, are selling every inch
>f ground at the price of blood-and in
nany parts have succeeded in stemming
he Teuton tide.
In the vital * , however, the in
ading wave m on rreslatably, reap
ng the fruits of the great "break
hrough" that crowned the live days bat
le of Rimnicu-Sarat.
The Teutons have pushed beyond that
allhead and are driving at Foceami
irnila, the last Rumanian Danube port
tready is bathed in a steady rain of
hells from the giant Skodas. lowitzers
nd "Busy Berthas."
I'p to yesterday 10.200 Russians were
aptured since the great drive against the
ereth line b.gan.
While the Teuton center Is storming
orward against the line of powerful
ulwarks built by Rumania for the event
f a Russian invasion (between Focsami
nd Galati, both modern fortresses), the
nyading right. formed by the Dobrudla
.rmy and part of the Danube forces, is
ghting its way forward across the Dan
be swamps and lakes in a northeasterly
lrection.
British "tanks" are of great aid to the
tussians west of the Danube, the Rus
ian war office reported yesterday. Trib
te is paid to the heroic conduct of a
ommander of one of the big motor cars
rho, though wounded in Tuesday's bat
I. led his "tank" into the fray again
he following day. "driving the enemy to
tight.
iRAND JURY TO PROBE
LATEST RISE IN COAL
pecial Federal Prosecutor Will Pre
sent Evidence in New York.
reciat to The Wachington HersI.
New York, Dec. 28.-This week's nn
rarranted rise in the price of coal, as
well as the big boost last month, will
e investigated by the United States
rand jury early next week. Special
'rosecutor Frank M. Swacker, in charge
,f the Federal Inquiry into criminal con
piracies to increas the prices of fuel
nd food. said today that there is
othing in the coal -Ituation to excuse
he latest Increase from 17.75 to 1825 and
8.50 a ton to New York consumers.
"We have information from the bigi
oal mining companies." he said, "that
he supply Is normal for this time of
rear. and the wholesale price, of course,
emaIns unchanged.
"It is not unusual to have a slight
hortage In production of coal in the,
oliday season. It happens every year.
n other years, the retail price has not
>en raised in New York. There is no
eal reason for raising it now."
We also have information, which is
tot yet reduced to concrete proof. that
rig coal speculators receive large sup
>lies of coal from mine owners in pre
erence to coal retailers with whom they
'ven had contracts, thereby creating an
trtificial market price.
"We have also discovered that the
hortage of coal in early November was
nerely nominal, and the excuse, for rais
ng the price to $12 a ton in New York
-shortage of labor and strikes at the
nines-was not true."
FOG AND SHELL HOLES
STOP SOME DRIVE
Ng Offensive Not to Be Resumed
Before Spring.
[y the International News Senie)
London. Dec. 2R.-Fog and shell holes
were chiefly responsible for stopping the
knglo-French Somme offensive and will
>robably prevent ts resumption until
Warch.
This statement was made today by Maj.
len. Frederick B. )faurice, chief diree
1er of military operations at the war of
lee. No real bottle has been offered on
he Slomme since October, saId Maj. G~en.
Waurice.
He admitted that the allied high com
nand had underestimated both tbe effect
heartillery shelling which left the
ty"hcky sprinkled with shall
si a iled with water" and the fog in
e Somme Valley.
Maj. Gen. Maurice announced for the
rst time that the British have taken
y's anothe1 sector of the French front.
rhis "next best thing," he said. "kept
hem busy for the last ten days." He
tided he would be glad to reveal the
gtent of the line lakes over "when I enm
rare the Germans know the point of juno
ion."
Flyl HLD IN TRAil fGRARN
Montreal, Dec. n.-Five men we's kil
'd and eta others were injured early to
lay in a rear-end collision, when the
anain Pacific Railway's Toronto train
hr Montresal ran into the local train
Crwltot.Polycarpe.
tsapposd the engineer of the train
keusrm teeither failed to see the sig
oas .ea iae a the a hau=r E.
1,500 "KIDDIES"
AT FILM PARTY
Poor Children Enjoy Show as
Guests of The Herald at
Belasco Theater.
Fifteen hundred .emlin and happy
children made the Balance Theater echo
and reecho with shouts of applause ye
terday an guests of the theater manage
ment, the William Fox Film Corporation,
The Washingion Herald, and the Asso
clated Charities at a special performance
for the poor "kiddies," the production
being the moving picture masterpiece "A
Daughter of the Gods."
The theater may have held larger au
diences, but it In certain that in Its his
tory it never had a more anthusantie
one, nor one which voiced its enthusiasm
A, noisily.
Damp weather outside did not dampen
the ardor of the little "movie" fans. They
began to arrive at the Belano. Theater
about an hour before the doors were
trown open.
Thy kept coming until 9:30, when the
doors were thrown open and they flock
ed pell-mell down the aisles and con
fiscated the choicest seats. The laughter
and chatter could not be restralned, and
on every face was reflected the enjoy
ment they anticipated.
S. Gassenheimer had generously do
nated a number of his enclosed sight
seeing cars, and when they arrived at
the theater With more than 200 noisy and
expectant children from. the northeast
section of the city, the theater was filled.
and Manager U. Stoddard Taylor gave
the signal to a the performance. -
If there had been any plan of checking
the enthusiasm and the aplrit of the chil
dren before the performance began, It
was abandoned five minutes after the
first reel was shown. The appearance of
Miss Kellerman on the screen was the
signal for an outburst that sounded more
like the applause from the bleachers at
the ball park than the more subdued ap
probation of the theater.
So It ran for almost two and a half
hours of the photo play. The mythyical
and romantic story of "A Daughter of
CONTNUED ON FAGE YOU&
120 FLAT TENANTS
JOIN "HEAT STRIKE"
Janitor Starts Argument and Tenants
Hold Back Rent.
spd.l t. ?bs Wshisa- I.e..
New York. 5)ec. 2.-A row that took
place between A. Paper, janitor of 142
Wilkins avenue, the Bronx. and Mrs. A.
Fisher. who has an apartrent there.
called attention today to the fact that
the IN tenants of the dwellings at 1410,
1412, 1419, and 1423 Wilkins avenue and
85 Jennings street have gone on strike,
refusing to pay rent unless hot water
and steam are supplied copiously and a
written promise entered into that the
rents will not continue to Increase in
inverse ratio to the heat,
The janitor was summoned to Mor
risania Police Court by Mrs. Fisher, who
declared he bit her when she took sides
with her husband in an altercation over
the amount of steam heat they were get
ting. He was found guilty and gave a
$500 bond for his future good behavior.
At a mass meeting of the tenants
Christmas night in conjunction with the
Tenants' League, it was decided that the
rent for the present month, amounting
to $2,50, should be placed In a bank and
not paid until the landlords sign an
agreement to satisfy all complaints.
MYSTERIBUS NOTE IN
HOTEL FIRE TRAGEDY
Police Search for "Troubles" of Nude
Woman Victim.
Special to The washinston flers.d.
Dover, N. J.. Dec. 28-Miss Lillian C
Green. noted markswoman, whose death
the authorities are investigating, did no
receive the fatal burns at the Lake Den
mark Hotel, where she was found. This
was the theory generally accepted today
alter Dr. W. S. Costello, of Dover, whc
treated the woman. had been questioned
Dr. Costello did not arrive until three
hours after he was summoned. By tha
time Miss Green had lapsed into uncon
sciousness.
The physician asserted that Mism
Green's body was frostbitten. It it
claimed that this is conclusive proof tha
the woman was burned some distance
from the hotel, and was carried there
to die.
Another obstacle was intsoduced whe.
Thomas W. Morfey, owner and manager
made public a letter he had found ir
the dead woman's room. The letter was
from a woman living in Brooklyn, ans
an excerpt from it reed:
"I sincerely hope the coming year wil
be the best year you have ever had, and
that you will leave all your troubles be
hind you."
The authorities probably will endeavoi
to get in touch with the writer of lbs
letter to ascertain what "troubles." i1
any, Miss Green was harboring.
ONLY ALLOWED ONE NAPINo.
Philadelphia, Dec. IL-ike a thunder
bolt a notice. written on little sliPS 01
paper appended to the menus in a la
Market street resnrent. br-ohs the new.
today that the starchy lunceromt nap.
kin had become a luxury.
Henceforth only the opulent can have
more than one. .J'he high cost of launder
ing and the terrible rafages of the om
nivorous "napkin hog" are twin reasons
for the new rule,
SIXK TTE.TD II lUK
M fe~De, IL-X passengess were
killd n sevralinjured early today
when the westbound Cerneli local pas
senger train was hit by the Montreal
Toronto Express on the, Canadian Pacific
line at St. Polycarpe Junction, according
in reports made to railway haeadquarters
bare today.
The engineere and hes. en bofth
taina mnil'culously esapeg detho
-ea.. leen
Voices le Carm, Amato
And Tetrazihi "Dance"
Beo Audimee's Eyes
Ne ea . e tothe
voieoe of (ruso, Teiramini, a& Amato
Manoe" befor. their eye on the wells
of & darkened rooa in the university
building at Columbla, *
The demonstration was gven by Prof.
Dayton C. Miller, of 'the Case "Shool
of Applied Science, at Cleveland. Ohio,
Inventor of the phamodelk
Thiu appatua eventually may save
those who aspire to become grand opera
or conoert singera thousands of dollars,
for Prof. Miller i hopeful of developing I
it go that It will be possible to determine
whether the singing voice of any person
has artietic possibilltiee,
Telegraph Tips |1
Toledo. Ohio. Dec. L--Nlne director$ of
The Groera' and Butchers' Association
this afternoon were indicted by the Lu
cas county grand jury for conspiracy In
restraint of trade.
Galeton, Pm., Dec. 2.-Daniel O'Connell,
engineer, and Bert Haslett, a dock fore
man, were killed today when the crown,
sheet of a locomotive blew off at the
plant of the Emporium Lumber Company
here.
Baltimore. Md., Dec. 3.-Overcome by!
the heat of a lighted stove Francis S.'
Ferguson, of Philadelphia, was taken to,
a hospital suffering from beat prostra
tion.
Rio Janeiro, Dec. 3.-An arbitration 1
treaty between Branil and Uruguay was
signed here today.
Amsterdam, Dec. 29.-Auntrian Privy I
Councillor Rudolf Slegbart. governor of I
the Austrian land bank, has resigned and
has been succeeded by Ritter von Loth.
says a dispatch from Vienna.
Amsterdan. Dec. 2.-The order of
Merit has been conferred on Captain,
Valentiner, commandal- of a German sub
marine, for sinking 12M shimp, according
to dispatches received here today.
Los Angeles, Cal.. Dec. 2.-DavId Cap
Ian. convicted of complicity in the dyna
miting of the Los Angeles Times build-,
ing in 110i. was sentenced to ten years!
in San Quentin today.
Flemington, N. J.. Dec. 2S.-John Mc
Loughlin alla WhIiam McLoughlin was
today sentenced to life Imprisonment at
hard labor by Judge Thomas W. Tren
chard for the murder of Richard J.,
Wyckoff last February.
Paris. Dec. 1.-Ueut. Guynemer. of the
French air service, has brought down
Me twenty-fifth aeroplane, the war office
announced today.
Panama, Dec. 21.-MaptaJn Peter Evans.
of the canal tug Reliance. and live mem
bers of his crew, perished when the boat
was Swamped near Christobal, accord
ing to reports reaching here today.
Newark, N. J., Dee. 3.-Surrounded by
his 110 deecendante. Jc.hn Ernest Bach,
celebrated his 102nd birthday here today.
Bach is an arch foe of prohibition.
London, Dec. 2.-Riumanian oil fields,
valued at $150,000,000 were destroyed by a
British military mission before the Ger
man invasion, It was announced by W.
W. Rutherford. a member of Parliament,
at a meeting of the Rumanian Consoll
dated Oil Fields Company here today.
Rome. Dec. it-The friendly spirit in
which President Wilson made his peace
Initiative to the belligerent countries was
emphasized by Thomas Nelson Page, the
American Ambanador, in an interview
with Baron Bonnino, the Italian foreign
minister, on Wednesday.
London. Dec. 3.-A dispatch from Paris
says that the Bank -of France probably I
will bc appointed agent in France for I
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. i
New York, Dec. n.-Twenty-five mil
lion dollars In gold came to the J. P.
Morgan Company today from Canada.
Berne, Dec. 2.-An avalanche has swept
away a number of houses near Simplon
Pass and killed two men. A snow slide
is threatening the village of Champery
with destruction.
Paris, Dec. M-Demobilization of the
Greek army In compliance with the de
mands of the allies, Is taking place rapid
ly, says a dispatch from Athens today.
anter Pa., Dec. 3.-Miss Ada H.
Burkett, 16, pretty and divorced. and
Frank B. Rill, both of Lancaster, have
taken out a marriage license. Miss
Burkett divorced her first husband last
May.
London, Dec. 28.-Former Premier
Asquith has issued a statement denying
that his daughter, Elizabeth, in engaged
to be married.
TWO SHOT FOR TWO CENTS.
New York, Dec. 2.-Except the fact
that two men were shot, all the police had
learned today of a Harlem card game was
that some one missed 2 cents. Nicolo
Polara, 64, was shot in the abdo n and
died in the Metropolitan Hon tal on
Blackwell's Island. Augustine Bordnora, i
37. is in the hospital with a bullet wound
in his lung. and In expected to die.
BUT HE FIrED RE!
Philadelphia, Dec. 28- Capt. Joseph
R. De Lamar, answering a $15,000 suit by
Katherine O'Byrne, who says she was
employed for life an his assistant house
keeper, told the Supreme Court yester
day that the plaintiff bullied his servants
and wore hia daughter's clothing without
permission.
Katherine O'Byrne says she wan en
gaged. for so long an her life should
last, an assistant housekeeper.
NIE8. W. EB. COREY ILL.
Stew York, Dec. 3.-Mrs. William E.
Corey, wife of the former president of the
United Staten Steel Corporation, arrived
hero today on the French liner Rocham
beau. tha victim of a mysterious malady,
which seixed her shortly after the liner
left Bordeaux.
Mre. Corey, who wan Mabelle Gilman.
an actrena, has been .ursing French
aoldlers at her Frenoh chateau,
STAEVATION GE0WS 00EX0E.
Landon, Dec. 3.-Death from etarvatlon
in beasming 000mmon in Germany.
says a dispatch to the Daily Telegraph
frogm Paris.
It qiuotea a traveler, who recently re-1
turned from Germany, to the effect that
the food ahortage han reached the cli
max of ie serlousnss. This traveler de-.
clared that he saw msany persons in Ger- I
my fell to the ntreet from eheer en
-M daste Sh& o SM t
IRREDONDO WILL
REMAIN AT POST
\mbassador-Designatebenies
Reports of His Recall by
First Chief.
Carransa's answer to the request of
he United States for his signature to
he protocol arranged by the Joint In
ernational Commission, Is in the hands
>f Secretary of the Interior Franklin K.
Ane, chairman of the American section
>f the commission. Its conteqts were
iot made public last night. ,
The Spanish text has been translated
nd the reply of the first chief Is unsat
ofactory in that it Is Inconclusive. Com
nent on the reply am known to Secretary
.ane was withheld on the ground that
Ie desired to study Its contents closely
nd not risk discussing its terms upor.
ummatured judgment.
There will be another session of the
oint Commisson.. The date has not been
et for this final gathering.
The Carransa answer was delivered to
lecretary Lane today by Senor Luis
,abrera, secretary of finance of Mexico.
nd chairman of the Mexican section of
he Joint Commission.
The only other persons In Washington
rho were given a glimpse of the docu
sent were Eliseo Arredondo and his
ublcity adviser. These two gentlemen
eld an extended conference In the em
masy this morning. For more than two
ours they were closeted. Then the am
essador desIgnate uttered his denial
hat he had been recalled or would be
rithdrawn from his present official poel
Ion.
Yn diplomatic circles it was stated that
he rejection of the protocol is based
1pn three objections.
First, the admission by implication
hat United States troops have a right
0 cross the border at any time in pur
uIt of marauding bandit. while this
ight in withheld from soldiers of the
e facto government.
Second, failure to adhere to the
fexlcan proposal under which the In
ernational differences were to have
een adjusted; and.
Third. the unsatisfactory arrange
nents for the withdrawal of the Per
hing force.
10Y TURNED THUiS
TO LEAD CAFE LIFE
fouthful Prisoners Admit Long Career
of Crime.
Pnnul to ITe Waskington Beau,
New York. Dec. "5--Toe police of Brook
yn are frankly puxIed by the stories
htich they say, two boys have told of
erIeted hold-ups, attacks, robberies, and.
n one case. the slaying of a man who
eisted them when they attempted to
ob him In the street.
One, John Harold Cantwell, Jr.. 22 years
Id.. s ays hie father Is chief clerk of the
4untelial Court, Brooklyn, and a Demo
ratic politician of importance in his dis
rict. The other describes himself as
rank Kelly, and the son of an employe
,f the highways department.
According to their stories, the boys de
Ired pleasures that kept them up late at
!ght. such a- drinks, expensive dinners
nd taxicab rides.
It was this. they say, that caused them
o supply themselves with revolvers and
lackjacks with which, Mr. Conway says
hey told him, they held up many per
ons, obtaining loot enough to enable
hem to dress and live a life of pleasure
rithout having to work.
Nearly twenty hold-ups were committed
n the district In a short time, sometimes
.a many as tour taking place in a week.
'ANGEL-FACED" YOUTH
WAS BIRiLAR'S PUPIL
'Charlie, the Cherub," Claims to Be
Modern Fagin.
Tecial to The'Waiton Helod.
New York. Dec. 2R.-;Chariie, the Che
uh," who claims the discrtdit of having
anght Raymond Beck, the "Angel Faced
3oy," to be a thief, will be taken on
knother ride today to show Brooklyn
letectives more of the homes he may@ he
'obbed. Charlie. whose name Is Charles
)rtner, is 1, but boasts he has com
nitted 200 or more burgjaries In two
rears, obtaining a total of 200,000 in loot.
)ften he wore evening cltghes to rob.
The amazing skill of Ortner was shown
o detectives when he opened a Yale
ock with his finger-nails "apt. Carey
laid Ortner performed this trick In view
If a half dozen detectives, -while not
)ermitting his andience to ass how it
iras done. The lock was supplied by
he police.
When Ortner told of being the instrue
or of Raymond Beck, the "Angel Faced
toy." who was sentenced to serve ten
rears in Sing Sing in December, 1315, it
was pointed out that Beck ts a year
ider than he and might have been the
netructor. Ortner sneeringly retorted
"Nothing doing. I taught him all he
mows. I worked with him on that last
oh, bttt they got him, not me, that
ime,"
The'police say they have a diary In
rhich the youth has marked off thirty
ive addresses, all having been robbed
luring two months.
T. E, TO VISIT ORIENT.
New York, Dec U.-Col. Ioosevelt
tarts for him Orientaj trip frnm San
rancisco on February 7. He will be
ter-ompanied by Mrs. Roosevelt. The
Tolonel first goes to Honolulu. After a
-iit to the Marshall Imland group he pe.
:eds to Samoa.,
The Colonel wilt be absent about four
nonths. He wishee it understo that
he tour Is merely for pleasure and that
as is not in quest of more whined
irdis or unknown rlvera,
The slides In Culebra Cut In the Pana
na Canal have practically been overeome,
cecording to inforrnatom made public by
be Panama Canal Board yesterday. It
a announced that the channel is the cut
tow hem a minimum depth of thirty-tihree
set, annng the 1ut
S.a- am
High Ce of l..
Jmp. in .... as
Decters Rai.e Prices
Boaton. Dec. 23.-The high cost of being
Sick is going to strike Boston with the
new year. After January 1 the medical
fraternity plane to boost Pricem. and it
will coat 82 Instead of 81 just to drop
in on a physician and have him feel a
patient's pulse.
The medicos are also to make It more
expensive to be sick at night than by
day. This Is the new schedule of house
calls: Between 8 a. m. and 6 p. m. $3;
between 5 p. m. and I p. m., 84; between
9 p. m. and 8 a. m., Sr.
What It will cost to die has not been
figured out.
MAY TAXI COST'
Administration C o-n s i d e r s
Levy on Cold Storage Men.
A tax on the "high cost of living," as
a means of refilling the delleted coffers
of the Federal Treasury is now under
consideration by secretarv McAdoo and
Treasury Department offlietals seking
new sources of reventue. The peroposal
would provide a graduated tax on arti
cles of food In cold storage warehojees
throughout the country, and was hailed
by administration leaders in atd out
of Congress as a new means of taxation
which would raise revenue without
arousinz polpular disapproval.
The sorgestion will be informoally laid
before 'ogresn soon after the holday
season. The outlook for a ., . d- -
ficit duritg the next fisc-al yoar ha.
aroused considerable anxiety among ad
ministration leaders
So the Treasur% experts havt ture-d to
the cost of liti-g itself as a %uur-- of
revenue. Vari-us government mvestiga
tions of high f--ed pric-s ya develoc:d
charges that the 'corneriri'" of food
products t cold ntorage h.- hadi m, -h
to do will raising prices.
Revenue ,xp-rt, t-li-e that su.h a
tax as Is propoe-d would prove e-mt-a!
and at the same titme hel- out the T-,s
ury.
They propose to place a graduateld tax,
based on the length -f time products
haev been stored. on all food products,
meats. butler, eggs, veg-tables. poultry
and similar product.. The tax would not
be charged until the pr-uct had been a
certain spe-Itic time- in -torage. Snd would
increase wihthe lIn.t:I of storag. and
with the quantity of the product stored
FEAR FELT FOR SAFETY
OF SIX OCEAN VESSELS
Five British and One Belgian Ship
May Be Lost.
(my the Ister"atl.eal News Service.)
New York, tiec. :.-Fi:e British and
one Belgian freight stexmshiTs are lons
overdue. Not a word has been heard
from any of them. Yet a:I left their
ports with wireless equipment.
It is ft-ared that they ha'e fallen vie
tims to the tnyterious German ruider of
which the BritIsh anmirally has sent
warnings.
Not one of them in l-nss than ten dats
overdue. ThiS raider is reported to be
the mysteriously misang ItAmport and
Holt liner Voltaire. The shipping lists
today showed th overdue steamers to be
the following: Ge',eorg. White Star liner
which left Philadtlphia on Dcember :
for Uverpool: tMtyuilx. boend froe
Cardiff for Montreat Sh- left the Welsh
Port on Novhember :N Iron i a yens
Belgian. which left liarry lI-erher % for
New York: Ieloravin. w' ich left londoi
on November '. for N-u- York. Belie
phron which 1-ft soutlampton on No
vember 45 for ialifax.
To this list must te added the Voltaire.
But shippine men olay irured that the
Voltaire may .e carrying the crws of
the other live mia-nn ships andI that
those five m y be restng on the bottom
of the Atlantic.
FIVE WiRLS ACCUSE MAN
AS "JACK THE HUfiliER"
So George Modoc Is Held Unde
$2,000 Bail.
Spsdal to The Wshigton Histold.
Philadelphia. Dec. 2.-George Mo
doc. 25, believed to be the mysteriou
"Jack the Hugger." who terrified girls
of the northwestern section so thet
wouldn't go out of night re-cetly, was
held under $:2.-0 atil for court h
Magistrate Collins lodey. after facing
five of his alleged victims.
Modoc is a well-dresed young mar
of good appearance, and he loudly
protested his innocence. He had only
been in the city two months, the pris
oner said, and was a married can
But five girle still burning with the
memory of merciless tear hubs, said
they positively ident:id 1iodoc as the
man who gave then.
In each case the hugger's tatic
were the same. H approached the
prospective victim a she was walking
eomewhere and aske d to be directed
to an address on Natrona street.
After hearing ber directions th.
hugger usually sked to have therr
repeated. By that lime he had mised
up his prey. if the girt were pretty
he caught her in his arms and hugge4
her, If he found her lacking in pui
chritude. the hugger has been knows
to pass them by.
When one of the young women told
Magistrate Coilins that Modoc had
treated a 10-year-old girl in this fash
ion, the prisoner's hail was jumpel
from $1.500 to $2.000.
VIRGInIa Xh, WOUNDED.
Ottawa, Dec. I.-Lieut. Bynum, who Is
serving overseas with the Csnadjax
Mounted Iies and whose homse Is is
Riohinend, Va., Is reported wounded is
the overnight esalty list.
DENY FEBSONAL G0D.
Philadelphia. Disc. 25.-Prof. Leuba. a
well known psychologist of Bryn Mawr
College. has ascertained by a canvass
of 5A00 Americani scietists that the
greater part of them deny both a personal
Gand and te tenmnne.,i at the s...
TRAIMENMUE
STRIKE WARNI
TO RAIL CHIEFS
Nation-wide Tie-up Threls
ened if Aanson Law
Is "Passed."
DEMANDS ARE REJEC:U
Brotherhood eaders. Maaasers Say.
Fear Walk-out Would Resuk im
Compulsory LAgislatio.
fay lhe lnternatiemai News Oeews"
New York. Dec. 28.-Tut the Adam
son eight-hour law in effect on Jaa
uary 1. or we will not be responsible
for what happens."
This %as the ultimatum delivered
today by the Brotherhood to the rail
way managers at an executive con
fererce.in the Grand Central Station.
A flat rejection of the demand was
made. and the Brotherhood heads-W.
G. Le of the Trainmen; Warren
Stonc. of the Engirineers; W. S. Carter,
of th' F rimn. and Acting Chief La
S hlppard, of the Conductors
abrupt:r quitted the conference cham
ber.
Eliteha Lce chairman of the national
coference committee of the railways.
gate out a tatemnnt tonight, in
which he expressed the determination
of the railways to await the decision
of the nited States Supreme Court
in the Adamson law test csae. If the
taw Is upheld. the ral]roads will give
tIe nien back pay from January 1. Mr.
LIe added.
The Brotherhood chiefs were pos
tive in their declarat)i. that this
would not be eatisfactory to the 566.
'Ni raitroad emptoy a represented by
thet.
ssaet Prevent & Striik.
"No matter what we might thinr Is
dividuaily ef )Our proposal." the mwa
ogers were told. -we cannot hold back
the tmen frm strik.ng. if necessary. t
wir their rights. Th^ men know tha
uni r-i-tentl tpro.erty has ccme to the
railr-ads. Ttey knio that bonuses are
bettr veen to workers In other Indus
tri in every part of the country.
They feel that the President and Con
geNE gae them the Adamson law and
inteided it ts so into effect January L
And they intend to secure their rights
under the Adamson law beginning Jan
uaer 1.
Une of the itrosl representatives. aft
cr the meeting said:
"I cnider the situatorn more critical
than r.i.ha been since the stirring dats
of l.t sttember. I sh.old not be rur
prised if sporadic strikes should break
out next teek. Borne men may get away
from the leaders but I do not expect
a general etrike.
The t-otherhood leaders know that If
the e, u!i o nane a girneral strike before
the Supreme Court decided the Adams.a
test cabe. Congress would pass the com
pulsory inveetigation act overnight. The
Supreme Court's decision may be ex
fiected atut February 1. That means one
month's overpay-or about E.0./10 will
be hel: in abetance for the men. This
sum o111 he pi.d providing the consti
tutionality of the Adamson law Is up
hetd.
Wilfes Promised New Law.
"If the Supreme ('ourt's decision I
agialnst us. another meeting with the rep
rtrtintatives of our employee will be held
to interpret the law. For instance the
laiw ditint-tly states that all railway em
prirs shall work 9 hours a day. We
hate no doubt but what men in the
pasenger service were Included, men
who under presernt echedu'es work as a
ru ,nly Itve or Pix hours out of the
terty-four''
Anotter bit of secret history of the
n gotiations between the Brotherhoods
and PreoSdent Wilon was revealed to
day. It ocame know that the President
has pledzed the "BIg Four" another
law in th- event the Supreme CoUrt
throws out the Adamson act.
PENNILESS, HE LIVED
IN $9,000 APARTENT
Owner Was Away. So Stabowsky
Thought He'd Stay.
New York. De "---Out of work and
ffunds. Stephen Stabrowky. M4 years old.
forme-r a waiter. admitted to Megts
trate Barlow In Yorkville Oomt tday
that for the part month be has besa
sleeping in the IO.rA-a-year apaOrtmet Of
the Misses Charlotte and Belle Andrews
on the ground floor of 340 Pako avenue
without the knowledge or consent of the
ocupants. who are in Florida for the
teinter.
Stahowsky was cagtiht after a chase
this mornin by detectlves of the See
branch deteotive Nireau. who saw him
climb out of a witidow of the servant's
room of the apartment and drop to the
Fifty-third etrect tide of the bolling.
He explslned thait hi entered the apart
mint at nicht and I-It In the morning.
nt tays through the wIndow.
Superintendent McAlea, of the apart
ment hour.. sAho alto tire. on the gen
floor, war unakrare of the fact that Sea
bowsky e as usIng the apartment. Aftor
an exanriatlon of the rooms he was
satisfied that Stabowaky was telling the
truth.
FROST HITS ORANGE CEOP.
Los Angelee. Calt. Dec.D --Pe baa
damagedi the oranue esep ef Caiifeeuia
afore lihan $5,it.. according to men
servative estimates today.
Orchardiste are stiending 375m he y
for oil with which to keep ge tgee
sbout the trees. beim, in a3 to
stoves. are emoploying Dinpsa
methods by running 5 eine abe a
mile long.
ISteesis S Cat Padisuee.
Balsismere ad o e aed.
IFur the accommordatlon of patroms to
Fairmont and Ltorgaiitown. a sixteas
tection Psiiman sleeping car les es
Washington at 9:05 p. s.. arriving
Fairmont 15 a1. m. Pessagersea
remain In sleeper at Pal==s=st
