' .
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and colder to-day; to-morrow fair,
continued cold ; moderate west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 44; lowest, 33.
Detailed weather, mall nd marine report 1 on pace 10.
.1
IT SHINES FOK ALL
6 4
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. v120.
fIV rTMT la Greater New York, 1 Elsewhere
UINCJ VjElPi 1 Jersey City and Newark. J TWO CBNti-
NEW
YORK, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1916. Copyright, 101, by the Sun JVlnMnp; and PubtUiMng A$ioatton.
1
0
I
ft
NOTHING TOO i
TRIFLING FOR i
PORK CHASERS
Lojrfriiiji' Stivams ami
Partly Dry Creeks
in Hill.
KEP.SPAKK3IAX ASKS
$710,000 FOR FLORIDA
One Hill at One Congress
Xot Sufficient for
Hungry.
$10,000,000 IX Ul,.
OF SOUTH KKX C03IBLXE
Publication of Cold Facts
May Prevent Gigantic
Steal. .
Washington, Dec. 28. Rivera and
creeks with a large "commerce' of
floating logs nrc not being overlooked
ny more than hamlets with postal re
ceipts of (30 a day as a. means of get-
ting "poik" nt thin session by the .
Southern statesmen now In control 0f
I
legislation. Some of the hamlets may j
grow up to the $40,000 post ofllce the
Southern Representatives arc planning
to gel tor mem, mil 11 in aounitut 11
some of the creeks can retain their
commerce long enough to Justify the
expenditure of the sums that are being
planned for them.
The river and harbor bill If It goes
...in tw. ii, n.u.irn r.r 1
iii.u.i.. ...1. v..- ...v... - I
this kind enacted by the present Con
gress. Last year the Southern states
men by discreetly -parcelling out
1 .. 1 .a. 1- 1
iKiriv mine -. ...
the .VorthTflanage to put over a rivers
and harbors bill carrying nppruprla-1
tlons of J43.00O.0O0. Hut one measure
of this kind with the "pork" orgy nt Its
height was not enough to satisfy the
1 t .i, ohor
While Representative uiarK, Monoa,
Pule.... as the lesult of the revolution
a.iinst "pork" which Is beginning to be
eon, Representative Sparkman and his
colleagues get a case of "cold feet" this
V.lt will carry appropriations amounting
to about 14n.noii.ono. as it sianus to.
'ay the bill appropriates $30,000,000 for
eitlng projects, and the committee ,
ants to add $10,000,000 more for new
roju-ts. It Is pokslble. however, that. .
ue to the agitation against the present
rroj
due
"nork" hunt, thev may at the last mo:
runt lop some of tho new projects off.
An examination of the Items as they
already stand approved discloses that
Representative Sparkman relatively has
done even better for Florida in his
ilu.n for "pork" than has his colleague,
Frank Clark, chairman of the Public
HtilMlngs Committee. If the bill goes
throush In Its present form the Federal
Trestury will be called upon to disburse
a total of 74fi,000 of this kind of
"pork" for Florida, while New York
Ftale with 100,000.000 tons of commerce
In one harbor will get only $548,000.
New York harbor Is allotted out of this
enly 1J50.000.
Take the little river of Klsslmmee.
Representative Sears, who gets a $30,
000 jKist olllce for the town of Klsslmmee
!th a population of 2,157 and postal
tecelpts of $33 a day, has not forgotten
In the rivers and harbors bill the river
from which the town takes Its name.
R la down for $4,000.
Creek ftometlmea Dry.
It has already had appropriated for
It 135. s:i, and of Its
tons more than half
Oce-aslonall'. the
shuns, this creek ru
months in tho year. In addition there
Is a project for spending $47,000 to re
claim 25,000 acres of land along the
rreek as the basis of a real estate
ehme. But If Klsslmmee Creek is not
forgotten In the proposed measure,
neither Is Oklawaha. Representatives
Clark and Scars both appear as bene-
factors of the Oklawaha, putting It down
for $5,000 on top of $98,710 already
appropriated. Its commerce, upon which
these appropriations are based, Is put
t 29,393 tons. But most of this Is not
tot or even launches. It Is logs
floating down the creek. There were
11S' tons of them last year.
Turning to the Appalachlcola It .Is
found that for this Representative Wil
son, possibly to make up for the fact
that he has nothing In the public build
ing "pork" lll, gets two appropriation
amounting to 131,000 based on a com
merce of 94,831 ton. On top of thle
for Appalachtoola ohannel running Into
St Andrew Bay, which is listed asla
waterway, he get $14,500, $525,000 hav
ing already been appropriated for thla
project. All of the tonnage so far I
Mstbound and westbound logs.
More Mttle Steals.
Whv cry for the' Choctawhatehee
River? JReprescntatlve Wilson. Just so
he would not feel hurt, get $.000. Last
year there was spent on this creek $24.
100. while of the commerce It carried
of 30,406 ton over half Is logs. For
the $24,000 the-englneer removed 15,
"snag and log" and cut from the
bank of the creek 22,143 trees, "to im
I'rove navigation" for tho logsA Repre-
Continued on Sixth Paai.
OMI.V
Atl.nlle CoaH
P" uu"? ei"" ""' U""T... w, rn,m,! the corner, scaled the fire escape, slder. It as Indicated to-night that I loot showed them evenly divided. found last evening who knew
Itirs mil witn prom 10 inc nuuin mn h,i,)(,,i ,h refuaees to the ground. . Carranza ' Insistence on that point wns It Is practically certain, no matter whereabouts but It was said they w
cillejgue . HcprcNMitamc lepneii breathed a little smoke, their less pronounced new. and that the change w hat action Is taken by different I not In this city nor at th.i Sabln home
mn. mien wrun ine same w.u m ' amartlnir. but they wer all n attitude had leen wrousht lamely I branches of the brotherhoods, that there ' Southampton. The only definite thlr
hyerg ades, na- oeen puuimc un. 1..1 . .,flpr Schnelieri gr., came by the alleied military situation In I will be no general strike or Uncut of a that could be learned was that they n
,miK iu miii- .. . ...m runnin home fiom his bakeshop to nug northern .Mexico. general strike. The brotherhood chiefs ' start on a i.uropean wedding trip
harbors hill, ably supported b the six ""'"J;.. ... cxtTa .pclal squeeze I teallze It will bo fatal to revive such a j January fi. sailing on tho American LI
.J ... ln . . 1 i.; r , -Itor the protesting Peter. Jr. I tinrrlsonliig; Terrltorj. threat nt this time. This Is due prln- steamship St, Louis,
win him control the majority of tl e I tor tne prote. ting T clrmllv to ,e intention of President'
Wers and Harbors Committee. This Thrill.. . .1 r n , . , !? I Wll-on and William l Adamson father Noted am Ranker.
i.m l 10 l.e ivnorteil as soon as the -Mn- Turnis. t one of the ooudltloiis t wdi rh Carranza ' 'V ....... .
Hou'e meets neu week Several other tenants we.e agisted , now objects Is that under which I of the eight hour law to carry to en- Mr Sabln was born In Wllllamstown
Houe meets ncU week. j'u'c , re e-cas while engines. would be obliged to garrison the terrl- fm Z S "Ji MaM- n 1Uo hl"
tu s.M.i Pre.ent steal. ?,wn, 5 . i,m,. snouted water tory evacuated by the Americans as thev I ?. feeling of the brotherhoods that crCer as clerk In the National Com
'jn uiniteo.
sWff,
Wilson May Veto Pork Bill
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON. Dec. a8. President Wilson told callers to day
that he would veto the $18,000,000 public buildings bill if it comes to
him in the form in which it is now pending In the House. Its advo
cates plan to seek to obtain a rule for consideration of the measure by
the House soon after the Christmas recess.
The President has reached no decision on the rivers and harbors
bill laid before him recently by Chairman Sparkman of the House
Rivers and Harbors Committee.
BOY SAVES TWO
IN HOTEL BLAZE
Crawls Tliroiijrli. Smoke and
Hescues Mother and Three-year-old
Sister.
The Janltrcss's 13-year-old boy, Peter
Schnollcr, dropped his dishwashing, and
Ills mother's apron last night when the
engineer o( the St. Mark's Avenue Hotel
In the '"Bedford section" of Brooklyn
stuck his head through the door of the
basement kitchen and yelled :
"111, Pete, you better skedaddle the
building's afire 1"
The .St. Mark's at 613-15 St. Mark's
avenue, was at one time nbout the
cholce-Jt family hotel In Brooklyn, and
even In recent year Its glories have not
entirely -departed. Peter Bchneller
wasn't thinking of that, however. . His
thoughts flew to the fifth floor, where
his ailing mother and his sister Eliza,
beth, 3 years old, were shut In a bed
room, probably unwarned.
The engineer ran off to give the
alarm elsewhere. The boy meed up
stairs to the first floor. Nothing wron;
there. He went on to the third floor.
The halls were full of smoke. He
couldn't we It. but his lungs felt It.
He stopped to press a button and the
lights came on.
rr,nl.T,f.M. smoke.
Qn fhe foimh floor t))c ,moU, wa.
worSt, and the corridors were Just mack.
A 1.1 In lio turned on the lights, but they
didn't help much. He had to get on his
knees und crawl across the landing to
the foot of the next itatrcase and up
the stairs.
Tho smoke made hint shut hli eyes,
so electricity wouldn't have served to
vnlil htm when he cot to the top story
... ...... .hlrh he
ven 11 i' .win... ,7 ,
didn't stop to do, for ho could hear
flumes crackling.
Stilt crawling, he reached his mother s
room, wnen ne opeueu uir
formation about the pllgnt or tne noin
wus guperfluous. Smoke puffed Into the
roonl wtn the boy. Ho caught up the
Httle girl, took his mother by the hand
and guided her to Are escape, which
fortunately was noi r
The thiee Schnellers were
halfway
down the Iron stairs on tne neaiuru ,
nremcu nupuru
1 1 o.l three
Into the old building ana inousuim. "i .
irnniU'ri -nuctators got
their till of
" ... ' I
.trio when the nremcn nasniMi .tiHTIan Lomm kh oners would not con In. utterance- of the "tilers on th s sub-I
Mrs. Clara Turnau. an actress put j grow h of bis army of bandits have made ,.,,,, , chairman of the national
'herself In peril by going back for her It dltllcult for Cariun-.t to nsree to use ',.onf,.rPllce committee. In n statement Is
I doe Beauty, but was rescued. On Bny considerable part of his army In the Mtl last evening, made It clear that the
another fire escape on the "''
lanuing. .r. nnu aire. , ", " ,1"
small children stood shouting befor e tne
firemen got there. Solomon 'n"""
scaled the fire escape and hel ped I them
down. Then nve-year-oiu werniuiim
Aronsnn remembered that she had for
gotten her Christmas doll. That doll had
ID wr fni.iii - - - . . ,
Ka mn ,! i mi it wuh nLU.inrnikii ni.u
climbed again after it ana pui u m
Geraldlne's arms.
Another group who got awa u ino
fire escape cons;sieu ji ..hj. "
ferts, her uaugiuer, .iri. iis..i
and Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. VayU.
Fireman Philip Zlmmer oarrlwl Mrs.
Martin Mlllspaug. 62 years old. from the.
fourth floor, and Fireman lrederlck Gill
assisted .Mrs. joim n.wii- ..un.
third floor.
Thi- lire apparently sianeo ai mo rrr
of the third floor. It shot up an air
shaft and spread all over the fifth floor.
The upper part of the hotel, which was
of brlcl; and brownstone trimmings, was
burned out. The cstiinaica loss is
$25,000.
SCANDINAVIAN MOVE DENIED.
Sttrden. ornir and llenninrn
. . .....
Haven't O. li.'U vil.on .loir.
statement has been communicated to tho
press denying the report that sweaen,
Norway and Denmark have presented a
note to the belligerents supporting the
proposal of President Wilson for peace.
The opinion bun prevails, nowcrcr.
,i.s,,nteh savs. that an exchanxe of
viewJ, H taking place among tho Scan-
d,avlan Governments regarding the
adoption of a step similar to that taken
by Switzerland.
REWARDS SERVANTS IN WILL.
Clinton W, Hlrd Left Nereral Hr-
ae.t. to Knipoyee. of Apartment.
Clinton W. Bird, a lawyer, of 25 Broad
street, who died on December 23 In the
Apthorpe, 2211 Broadway, left $1,000 out
of his estate to Hilda Frlberg. ,n wait
ress In the Apthorpe, according to the
will, which was filed for probate yester
av Klsle Meisels. another employee
there, receives $1,000 also, and Hulda
Bergendahl, a coon, gets iniiu.
The testator lett tno duik ui his rs.
tate, valued at several hundred thousand
.initors. m his widow. Mrs. Lena Bird,
and hi son. Bequests of $1,000 each
ore left to Ills chauffeur, gardener and
another employee on his estate at
Peeksklll. ,
Lessen Peak Becoming Active,
IttDDlNQ, Cal., Dec. 28. Two great
pillar of moke and steam poured from
Lser Peak to-day. rising almost ver
tically from the main crater and reach
ing an estimated Jielght of 2,000 feet.
The other einoke streamer from a
mailer vent waa about half as high.
. UaalM iM r. M.
-il? Mwrtar wnrmm.
i i.--lt rht nknfrh in Tim flux from th t rntnm nttlnn which Clew. WMtniiin tin. I
uTnUTJini? timber i London Time: I pointed to Investigate tho advisability of
engineers' report London-, Dec. 28. A special despatch I a garbago plant on Stntcn Island from
... a-., for. e o-h e.... di..bhnln, tnva (hut in oHll' III ! a puuuc ncilllll niailtinuilll ll.m rriiorien
NEW PROTOCOL
CARRANZA PLEA
In 800 Word Itcply lie Seeks
Modification of Draft by
U. S. Commission.
Washington. Dec. 28. One more ap-
peal for modification of the protocol 1
providing for the withdrawal of Anierl- j
can troops from Mexico Is made by Gen.
Carranza In a message delivered to
Secretary Lane -to-day by Luis Cabrera,
chaJrman of the Mexican members of I
the Joint- commission.
The Mexican First Chief replied to
the Insistent American demand that the
protocol signed by his spokesmen at
Atlantic City be ratified, with an 800
word document In which ho failed to
accede to the demand, but refrained
from writing anything that could bo
construed us a flat repudiation.
The suggestions for changes In the
agreement will be considered by the
three American representatives, Secre
tary Ume. J. it. Mott and Judge George
Gray. Secretary Lane advised his col
leagues late to-day of the character of
the reply and asked thorn to meet him 1
here a soon as they conveniently could. 1
Decision Nest Week.
Karly next week a Joint session of
tho Mexican-American commission will
be held, at which the Americans will
give the Mexicans their nnswer. and nil
Its nature depends the future course of
the commissioners, who were directed
more than four -months ago to effect If j
possiDie inc hiijumiiwiii 01 questions ai
Issue between the two countries.
Neither Mr. Cabrera nor Secretary
Lane would discuss the nature of Car
ranra's rrply. Mr. Cabrera left for
New York soon after Its delivery, and
Secretary Lane declined to reveal Its
character until It had been submitted
to his colleagues. The same reticence
was displayed at the-Mexteitn Embassy.
The Mexican Commissioners are con
fident that no Insuperable barrier has
bwjn raised by Carranza.
The chief Insistence of Carranza has
been that the American troop's should be J
wiuidrawn unconditionally, which tlio
iiinrcucn oui
It was pointed out that
since the protocol was drafted the In-
fr..ul .in.U'llln.. n lll.. n.wl ll. u,An.. I
' '"sir ct now occupied by Pershing when
, s"- - ii.-i-i-iirj- m u mc rum.-
I'-vuiiK iiiuic .nine iiiu.ii ui
111a 111 oiuer pninis.
must wiio niivn neeii in loucn wun
f'airnnzn'H reiesentutlves asserted that
in ins inies represeniauon 01 tne case
he expressed a wllllnnnena to ratify the
..Ki.i-.i.rni 11 ,1 iiiui. u.i 1 in 1 r uini- uir
,),,. tn,up withdrawal were specified and
. f moro lenient nttlttule were displayed
tnwar(1 ,he ml,Bton of Increased bandl".
I activity,
STATEN ISLAND HEARS
GARBAGE FIGHT IS WON
I.eport Tli nt Sdilc lloaril
lleiilth Will Refuse Per
mit for Pliuil.
of
T he report reached Richmond ilorouEh
nuc nisi iiikiii inai uie ninic Department
i ui-mui nuuiii ivmne iu in-nii it iicrillll
f carbaffo nlant on Lake, Islnn.l. The
I nt puhllc health would be endangered
by the transfer of the garbagn to tho
Lake Island plant ami piling It there to
he disposed of In tho plant, according to
the Information which came from Al
bany. It Is taken ns a matter of course
that the Slate Department of Health will
follow tho decision of this commission.
This means that Gnffney, Hngan &
Van Kttcn, the contractoiw, will have to
look elsewhete for a site, and that the
plint on Lake Island, which Is now two
thirds completed, will he almost a total
loss. The company hns already put
$500,000 Into the buildings and has
$S00,000 worth of machinery on the site.
The Stilton Island vigilance committee
of 150 and the Women's Antl-llarbiiRO
League lire already planning a monster
celebration of the victory, which will
take place Just ns soon as the formal
announcement Ih made. The light has
been In progress for morn than n year1.
The Governoi's commission took testi
mony for nenrly three mouths.
Charles A. Van Kttcn of the contract
ing firm said last night that Ills concern
Han leased 'iiatrcn isiann ror three
months nnd would dispose of the city's
garbage there, because the Lake Island
plant, which wan to have been done on
January 1. cannot be completed until
May 1. He had not heard of the com
mission's teport.
U ltd Start Home Tn-niorrovT,
i
llRow.ssvtt.l.i:, Tex.tr, Dee. 2S. The
Second New York Field Artillery Is pre
pnrlng to leave the bolder lo-motrow
lor Brooklyn. The Twenty-third New
York Infantry also Is scheduled lo do
Curt homeward Saturday,
ATLANTA NRW ORLKANH M JMrHIH.
BtMJTManiN RAILWAY thru trains dally,
OlntaiYnd Utpliur ear service. N,T. (MNee,
i rfita Ave.-Mh.
R.R. MEN FORCE
8 HOURS JAN. 1
Workmen Refuse- to Wait
Until Test Case Is
Decided.
TROUBLE IS FEAHEI)
Sporadic Strikes May Result
From Unexpected Action
Which Ends Conference.
Regardless of the test case jn the
constitutionality of the Adamson eight
hour law now awaiting decision In the
United States Supreme Court and d :
spite tho agreement between Attorney
General Gregory and railroad attorneys
to suspend tho operation of the law un-
til after this decision, the "Big Four
hrotherhoods served notice yesterday on
the national committee of railroad man-
niters that their organizations will In
sist on the Immediate operation of the
act January 1
T,s ummatum opened up a breach as
wide as that -which existed before Prrsl
dent Wilson pushed the Adamson law
through Congress last summer. Sum
marily the negotiations which have been
on since November were broken off. No
further conferences will be held until
ih. hlrho.t enr a.rM.. the Issue flnallv.
The proffer by the managers of a
substitute that would grant to all mem
bers of the brotherhoods the advantages
gained by the Switchmen's Union In fhe
recent arbitration, that Is, an eight hour
day with nine hours pay and certain
Increases In
the wage schedules, was j
refused Indignantly by the brotherhood
chiefs who were parties In the con-
ffrence.
They bioke up the conference after
a session of an hour and n half. When
they withdrew, the situation their action
provoked was so complicated that neither
they nor the managers were nble to
foretell what will happen. Next week
Is fraught with dangerous possibilities.
Sporadic Strikes Likely.
It Is more than likely that sporadic
strikes will spring up In roads all over
the country. These will follow the re
fusal of the roads to glvo Immediate
benefits guaranteed to the employees un
der the Adamson law. '
None of tho brotherhood chiefs would
talk of the outcome. It appeared from time sho has lived with her mother. Mrs.
their reticence as If they fear their per- Paul Morton, nt the latler's home, 907
suasion will not head off ruptures. As I Fifth avenue, during the winter and has
a matter of faut. there seemed to be no occupied a summer home at Southamp
tinnnlmltv amonr the "Rlir Four" heads 1 ton. I- I.
HH to whether the strike order Issued last ,
summer still Is In force. The last puh-
tlon It will serve as a propelling force to
shove the compulsory arbitration Into
tulroads are not allied with the brother-
)IOoIs In nny moement for the defeat or
tills prospective measure, lie said on
this subject:
t'ollualon I. Ileulril,
...n, Kta,PmoM )UH been made in the
1 ,,rPH, tne conference committee has
r.en n i ncr n -ttenar ne a h 1 to he mm.
ported by the toads and the employees
nllke, and to bn offered as a stib-tltute
fot the legislation proposeil by the Ad
ministration, to hold strikes In abeyance
until after an Investigation by a public
body.
He gave thlti version of what occurred
.behind the doors of the committee room
in the Grand Central:
"There have been certain Informal ills
tusslons with the bends of the brothci
hoods at which the possibilities of a
settlement of the eight hour controversy
wi re discussed. But there was such u
difference of opinion concerning what
should be done that no ucreement was
j possible, and therefore the discussions
' tuivn been discontinued,
"The railroads will await the decision
o,' the Supteme Court on the Adamson
law test case. By agreement with tho
Department of Justice In Washington the
i.illroads will keep a tecord from Jan
uary 1 of the wages of all employees
nlfected by the Adamson law, In older
that If the law Is uphold the employees
will receive the extra luck piy due
them. The rights of the employees in
tho Interval will thus be amply pin
teclcd. ,
Iiiklst 011 Jnn. I Operation.
Representing the "Big Four" nt the
conference were Warren H. Stone, chief
of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Kn-
Klneeis; W, H. Carter, chief of the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Fltrmenandj
Knglnemen: W. G. Lee, chief of tho Or-I
dcr of Railway Brakemen, and L. U.
Sheppard, vlce-prenldent of the Order of
Railway Conductors. All but one of the
twenty-one mummers wero present.
The brotherhoods' Trst proposal was
one which caused the split. They tint
on the table before the managers their
conception of how the Adamson l.lw
should lie operated. This theory of tho
law In effect was the same aa their de
mands tnnde In tho conference before
President Wilson last summer, with the
single exception of the overtime pro-
vision, in brief, they Insisted on every
thing they demanded then with this one
elimination. Fuithermore, they an
nounced that the law would have to go
Into Immediate operation on January 1,
One of the managers pointed out to
them that the actual operation had been
deferred by order of the Attorney Gen
eral, won .whom tho brotherhood throw
their legnl rellanco after the test suit
was brought.
"Our members gained this law nnd
they want lo got what It provides on
and after January 1 III spite of anything
t"hat has happened since.' retorted the
spokesnmtrfnr the "Big Four,"
It was suggested to them that the op
pnrtunlty was open to nil brotherhood
members to get the same benefits the
Switchmen' Union will gather from the
recent taward of the board of arbitration
which decided Ihelr demands. ' This
CealiNM! m Talrd Pmgi.
II uifmii. 11. II linn um.rinii mi.i m .-.-, - i
CHAS.H.SABIN
WEDS IN JERSEY
Hride Mrs. Pauline Morton
Smith, Daughter of Late
Xavy Secretary.
MARRIAGE A SURPRISE
Noted Banker and Wife Will
Sail January (i for lloncy
moonin Europe.
Charles If, Rabin, president of the
Guaranty Trust Company and one of
New York's leading bankers, married
yesterday afternoon Mrs. Pauline Mor
ton Smith, daughter of tho late Paul
Morton, who was Secretary of tho Navy
during Thcodoro nooscvclt's ndrnlnlstra
tlon and later president of the Equitable
Life Assurance Society
The ceremony was performed by the
Itev. C. G. Mallcry at Far Hills, N. J
and although tho banker's plans had
been known to several of his friends
and business associates, as well as to
members of his family, the announce
ment that tho wedding had actually
taken placo came as 11 surprise to them
last night.
The Itev, Mr. Mallery Is pastor of the
Reformr1 Church In the New Jersey vll
I lage. The wedding party went there In
a special train of three coaches on the
Lackawanna. Automobiles took the at
lenuanin ana kucbis 10 ino cnurcn ana
after the ceremony to Hound Brook,
where the special train waited to take
them back to New York. The names of
those In the party were withheld.
Divorced Not I. nun Ago,
.Mr. Sabln was divorced by his former
wife, Mrs. Mabel Whitney Sabln. several
monms ago. no ouiamco a decree in
Kingston, and by Its terms was given
custody of their son, Charles Snbln, Jr.,
now n student at Williams College. She
was it daughter of the late William M. I
Whitney, a prominent business man of
Ajhany. ami at tne tune or nor marriage
In 1S97 Mr. Sabln was Just beginning
his career as t,n officer of a bank In
that city.
Mrs. Smith was the wife of James
Hopkins Smith, Jr., a member of the
Itacquet and Tennis, Knickerbocker,
Down Town and IMpIng Hock clubs, lie
was graduated from Harvard In the
class of 19dl. His father has a home
in Portland, Me., and In this city at
17 I last Forty-seventh street. The pres
ent Mrs. Sabln and Mr. Smith were di
vorced about two years ago. Since that
Iniineillately after tlie ceremony jes
linl.iy aflcniixiu Mr. and Mrs. Sabln
quietly vanished, No uue could 1
their
ere
nt
ig
III
on
Inc
meiee Bank of Alliany in 1 SSI unci
fifteen years later was vice-president and
manager of the institution, which had
been sold to the National Commercial
Bank, in May. 1907, he came to New
York as president of the National Con
fer Bank. Previous to that time he had
been piesldent of the New York State
Bankers Assorlation and had won hich
staudlnir In financial circles, which he In.
1 1 reused still more In this city until he be
came head of the corporation with which
he Is now lilcmllled.
Mis, Morton Smith Sabln Is a sister
In-law of William Chapman Potter, vice
president of tho Guaranty Ttu1 Com
I'u.i;, ...... iiiuiiivuj'ii-9 v. i unlit- ...ui tun,
Mr. Sabln caurcfl an International stir
wl.rt III..
In October by asserting that Germany
soon would offer peace. Ho would not
i discuss the source of his Information
and tho story wus scouted at the time,
Ho has been living nt the Metropolitan
U1UI)
CUBA STOPS DEBT BONDS.
More Tim n i:,000,oon Hired
..-it York Men Held I p.
to
Havana, Dec. 28. President Menocal
ha signed a decree suspending a reso
lutlon adopted by the City Council of
Havana on November It! providing for
nn Issue, of municipal bonds to pay for
debts amounting to more than 12.00"..
000, dating to the time when Cuba was
a Spanish colony. The debts were
bought up by Walter Stanton, formerly
of New York, and others.
A similar resolution for a bond Issue
to meet claims for services alleged to
have beep rendered under Spanish dninl
nation, which were bought up by Mr.
Mniiton, was adopted by the Council last
summer. President Menocal also an
nulled this decree, on the ground that It
Involved Infractions of the laws of mu
nicipalities. MORE BRITISH CARGO SPACE.
Government Tnke H.1 I'er Pent, of
Itiiolll on All Lines. '
Great Britain has Informed the New
York managers of the White Star,
Cun.trd. Atlantic Transport, Fumes,
Withy & Co.. Anchor. Wilson, Phoenix,
Lamport & Holt. Booth nnd other Brit
ish lines that the Government will re
quire hereafter 8." per cent, of the cargo
space for the transportation of muni
tions nnd foodstuffs.
Tills represents an Increase of 15 per
cent since December IS, and Indicates
Hint tho Government Is putting Into ef
fect Its decision to make private busi
ness subsidiary to military, It also
sets at rest the rumor Hint New York
might be flagged In favor of Halifax In
the exportation of w-.ir necessities to
the Kntcnte Allies.
POLICE IN A MOTOR SCANDAL.
Nix III Chicago Said to lie luvolvrd
In Theft Cases.
Chicago, Dec. 2S. A lieutenant of po.
lice and Ave detective, sergeants nre In.
volved In an alleged ring of automobile
thieves, ueeoidliig to statements made
nt the otllco of the State's Attorney to.
day. Thirty arrests have been made.
Since a confession was made by "Abe
the Agent" Raymer It la said that oth
er arrested have made offer, to confess
In return for immunlff.
KAISER WILL GO FAR TO
AID U. S. IN PEACE MOVE;
AUSTRIA BACKS WILSON
FALLOFBRAILA
NOW SEEN NEAR
Teutons Capture 10,000 Rus
sians in Retreat From
Rimnik Sarat.
London, Dec. IS. The fall of Bralla
seems only a question of days. A Teuton
ting Is being drawn about that Important
Rumanian granary and army base, and
the city Is already reported under lire of
the German heavy guns.
Gen. von Falkenhayn's troops arc
pushing hard on the heels of the Ttus
slatw, who are still In retreat from Itlm
r.lk Sarat. Tho German War Office an
nounced to-day that the battle there
ended In a complete victory, and that
tho total of prisoners Is now more than
10.000.
In tho Dobrudja Bulgarian and Turk
ish troops attacked the wholo Russian
front In the northwestern corner of the
province, to whlchthcy still cling, and
captured some of the defences of tho
bridgehead of Macln, across the Danube
from llralla. The Turks and Hulgars
stormed the villnge of Hakel, on fortified
heights cast of Macln.
By the elmultaneous advance In Great
Wallachla and In the Dobrudja the
Teutons are slowly but surely encircling
Bralla Just as they encircled Bucharest.
Advancing beyond Itlmnlk Sarat they are
north of Bralla, although forty-five miles
west of It. Threatening Mucin, they are
separated from Bralla on tho east by
llttlo more than tho Danube.
Attacked In Carpathians.
The Teutons have attacked the Rus
sians In the Carpathians also and have
beaten them back at one point. On the
Moldavian frontier Germans anil Alls
trlans attacked with strong forces along
the front from Glashutte to Sezmezo and
t-Kik from the Russians a i-erles of
heights in the region of the recent Rus
sian offensive that failed to sve Bu
charest. In Volhynla the German and Austrian
heavy mortars are bombarding the Rus
sian lines Heavily and nnvo uesiroyen
...... li,,, trenrhe. nt ome 1
St Th tt! itt 1 Kl
German Overseas News Agency, though
the Russians are In great tone, i . .
Germans themse yes were
the success of their onslaught m ine
rinh..i,Hii nhero the arillV lit lien. Mi'
huroff was expected to hold strong posl-(
Hons on the wooded helglitB of the north-
ctn part of the province, I
iii .... v. ...,nfiv,ritf
The overseas l,
report receiveii M-wr. . , , . . ,
h to '
tiriU nil .
German statement.
To-nlRht's German otllcial statement
sail simply that Vol. Falkeiiliayii
Ninth army had gained In pur suit of. le
ItUhslan In Great Wallachla. 11 da
statement, giving a detailed account of
the Teuton victory, union
nd Putna valleys, tho Ashling
'"Army Group of Field Marshal von
Maikenson-Ttie 27th of December
hrouiht to the Ninth Army Infantry
under Gen. von Fnlkenhan a com.
plete victory In tho battle ii-ar Htm
k Sarat over the Russians sum
moned to the defence of llunMiiU.
The enemv. who was defeated on Dec.
k attempted to regain tho ground
lost bv counter thrusts of strong
masses; but the attneks failed. Prus
sian and Bavarian infantry divisions
pressed behind the enemy, whoso
forces flowed back. Our troops stain
peded him from his row position
constructed during the night and
pushed head boymd Itlmnlk Sarat.
At the same time, further to tho
southeast, German and Austro-Hun-garlan
troop pierced sltongly en
trenched Russian lines, They repulsed
hero also violent counter-attacks mado
on their flunk nnd advanced IlKhtliig
In a norttu'jstetly direction. Tho
enomy again In this defeat suffered
heavy sanguinary losses. i
Yesterday li.OOO prisoners nnd
twenty-two machine guns wire brought
In as n booty, The number i f pris
oners made by the Ninth Army In en
gagement near Itlmnlk Sar.it forms
a total of 10,220 Russian.!,
With the Danube army yesterday
there were only local engagements,
In the Dobrudja, Bulgarian ami
Turkish troops succeeded In throwing
tho Russians from fortllled height po
sltlons east of Macln,
Hiiaslnii Statement,
The Russian statement nn all fionts
follows;
On the Rumanian front, after stub
born resistance, our detachment were
pushed back under superior hostile
pressure In a sector near the railway
In the region of Rlmtilk Sarat, nnd
wete obliged to withdraw to the Rltcr
, itlmnlk.
Attacks by the enemy south of thn
Danube were repulsed with great
losses to him. West of Vlilr Slavnoe
British armored motor car took part
In biMttlng back tho .attacks. The gal
lant commander of tho British armored
motor car detachment was wounded
during the battle on Tuesday when re
pulsing enemy attacks. Nevertheless
on Wednesday he again directed the
operations of his detachment and put
the enemy to flight,
The enemy made attacks all along
the fiont in tho Dobrudja against the
positions occupied by our advance
guards. lie was repulsed everywhere
by our Are except at the village of
Hakel, which has been occupied by
him.
KITS' NV HK1BM Perfeet Golf liars at riae.
hurst, N. C Write aUttl Caraliaa. ttf J7
Dniester near Halnjt were repulse,. " ; . fo
the Russian statement reports. experience at heavy cent, but tho con-
, V ""oKd" aV .munis'0 S orremalns Ruit it is nothing com-
Just bee,, oejeated at lUmnlk snrat wh t . r . lla! PV.
seemed to make no better light t ha the niW wlhout oWann(; equivalent ad-
the report n , V,, i.ml.in ' mlllt.irv outlook and the conditions last engagements as possible will be made
iroin , ' , ," l,e,l hehlnd the Sereth to ' summer, whi n the Central Powers faced for him.
army had "'r"a,PU. ' Cers. while an attack extending from the Prlpct Tho Austrian Government ren
he reorgan icd ,lus ' "P. ,. h0,lth marshes to the Black Sea. Tho position President Wilson that the note of
tho ltussiiitis were to noiii of th( (.onra, ,,ow,.r , Seonio.l far Central Poiveis to the belligerents
"I lie , POM, lin,w,f,.l 1nr' :im 'u m t n rv.lf Inn nol IlttlltH'trt 1 r.lll llt"-M lO flllfr llltli MMi
T'runt of Archduke Josepli im ino iests in many parts or the world, ling- omgy. tno (.eriuiin ana Austrian note
t uilovi ill the wooded Carpathians, 'hind. Italy and Russia feel keenly tho aie Identical. They umiualltledly In-
I'ernvi'ii riflemen drove off strong Run- .pang of want. Rumania's rich harvist dorse tho Piesldent's basic Idea of peace.
Inn littrolK In a baud g.enade engage- s ours. The long Soiinne battle Is won. but propose a onfereni-o as the logical
V nt In tno Meste Canescl sector ; On tho lsoii7.o everything I lino. In means of discussing peace, and do not
o'er ." w is repeatedly lively cannonad- Macedonia the enemy is repulsed. In Ru- waste lauch consideration over the
i t iii ' the mountains, In the Oltuz ninnln the enemy Is annihilated. All the League to Enforce World Peace or other
ln . ...,iw. ihn nchtlnc activity Russian attacks are defeated, Our front Idealistic features of the American notes.
TEUTONS DONE,
SAYS BELLOC
No Way to Rcplai-c Waste of
Life, View of Military
Critic.
Seechl Cubit fitwteh to Tns Sex,
London, Dec. 28. Hllalre Bclloc, the
military critic. In a forthcoming detailed
review of the war In 1916 nttrlbutes
Germany's nnxlcty for peace to an ex
haustion of her effectives, a result of the
new tactical method adopted by the Al
lies, which Inflicts by local offensives
greater losses upon the defence than arc
suffered by the attacking troops.
"This exhaustion Is the whole cause of i
the enemy's desire for peace," Mr. Bel-
loc writes. "For every sixty-five men
the enemy now has In action, Inclusive of
field depots and lone armies, hut exclu
sive of men In uniform working behind
the armies and useless from a military
viewpoint, the enemy sees drafts of
about twenty to supply the wastage be
tween this season nnd the late part of
next summer. Thla Is grossly insufll-
clcnt
'The Allies, on the other hand, see ln
definitely larger reserves of human ma
terial." wareoon To be published deles' that
the Allies are In better position to Insist '
upon their superiority than are the Ger-i
Learned From Kxperlenre,
"Three vital points hac been gained
by us by our effort during the past
year." he says. "They arc, first, the def
inite ascendancy of our artillery and air
power, which together enable u to cre
ate conditions favorable for Infantry at
tacks : second, tho superior morale of our
Infantry, which can be relied upon to
carry and hold the positions opposed to
If, Anally, our staff has now gained ex
perience and seems so thoroughly at
home In new conditions that It Is to the
last degree Improbable that we shall
ever HOOT anain ill rrciuiircrilirilin lull- I
' ? " '
ever hear again of reenforcetnents fall
connection with these British t'e-
it1tr. rlnir to note the views '
of ho ,,cmU,m.lHX Sorth rnnl,n i,.,' a comine.e i.mure or mo peace
wn0h pVos the follnwinir ic.isons , negotiations proktbly would bo fol-
......
" Germany .hum ...l-i..,.- ,.v...k.
T ticriniin OntlooL.
. . . ,
"It Is fintriinrl.ite lit this st.icp. to
K,r.r " .,,;. , .,.
. ...
summer, when the Central Powers faced
Icy had produced painful ii-sults, On
the Soiumo. nt Verdun, on tho lsonzo
wo suffered serious flank attacks. Whlli
the Russian offensive was nt llrst sue-
ci-ssful, our situation In Macedonia was
not reassuring.
"Now, thanks to the successful actlvl-
I ties of our submarines ami the bad h.ir-
Is now shortened, our lino completely
closed between tho Blapk Sea and the
Baltic. Tho Kntentes formidable plans
have failed. We are tho victors: as vic
tors we must dictate tho peace."
BRITISH SAY U-BOAT
FIRED ON SURVIVORS
A tl in i rally Oliiirjros .Mimlpr of
Officers of llio Sunken
. Westminster.
11NPON-. Dec. 2S. The Admiralty Is
sued to-night the following statement
concerning the sinking of the British
steamship Westminster, which was re
ported lost nn December IS:
"The degree of savagery the Gornnns
nave attained ln their subniailne policy
appears to have t cached a cllmix In
the sinking of tho Westminster, which
was proceeding from Torre Anniinzlntn
to Port Said In hnltast. On December 14,
when t M mites iroin tne nearest land,
the Westminster was attacked by a Ger
man submarine without warning and
was struck by two torpedoes In quick
succession, which killed four men, The
Westminster sank In lour minutes,
"This ruthles disregard for tho rules
of International law wns followed by a
deliberate attempt to murder the sur
vivors. The olllcers and crew, whlfe of.
feeling their esenpe in hunts, were shelled
b the submarine at n range of 3.009
yards. The master and chief engineer
wero killed outright. Their boa. wn
sunk. The second nnd third engineers
weie not picked up; It Is ptesumed they
were drowned.
"Tho captain of the submarine must
have satisfied himself of the effective
ness of his two torpedoes, yd he pro
ceeded to carry out In cold blood nn act
of murder which could not possibly bo
justliif.it In any urgency of wnr nnd can
only be regarded in the eyes r the
world as a further proof of the doRrada
tlon of German honor und morale."
117 Ac it Second Llenteiinnla.
Washinhton, Dec 2 - one hundred
and seventeen iinn-coinmlssloned olllcers
of the regular army, regular privates
and former olllcers of the Philippine
Scouts, nvelird to-day provisional com
inlsslni.i as stent d llcuteuiints In thn
army.
AIKKN Al'tll'STA AHBKVII.I.K,
"Auut Special," dally. l'.0 I'. M, Druw.
tnl'Toom, KlKlvrtinm, Sleeping car. HfTsctlve
.Inn. 2d compartment our ilslly liwrn Now
Yojjj ana Auiu.la. N.Y, Office, Sit fifth Av,
Ambassador Gerard Rc
ported to Have Advised
Lansing of New Turn.
PLAN IS TO ADVANCE
"U. S.-GERMAN" AIMS
Wilson Fearful of U-Boat
Crisis if Negotiations
Arc Fruitless.
OTHER SECRET DATA
ON WAY TO CAPITAL
Vienna Government Indi
cates Appreciation of
President's Efforts.
WAsms-aTox, Dec. 28. President
Wilson nnd Kmpcror William aro now
virtually playing the role of partners
In an effort to perfcuade tho Entente to
1 stop the war. This was made mora
'"an ever evident by the development,
of to-d.iy.
Ami)assador Gcnird In Rerlln Is
understood to have Informed this Oov-
i ernment that the Berlin Foreign Office)
will leave no stone unturned to ad
vance the identical nlm of tho Ger
man and American Governments.
Count von HcrnstortT. tho German
Ambassador here, regards the German
reply to the President' note as show
ing nn Identity of noble purposes and
professes astonishment that It should
bo considered non-responsive.
'm i"l iva.sui imc wvnii.ui UIIU
Adrian replies to the President'.
The otllcl.il texts of the German nnd
notes show that these Governments re
gard the purposes of President Wilson
as precisely similar to their own.
!.,.... I i..ii.... .: I..
President Wilson Is mil.t renllM
.
. mvt.(, ,,y v,,ry rlouM illlllcilltles with
; Germany over the siibtnaiini) Issue
I 1 1 will ilo ote nlniust liln entire Htten-
I
tlon to the negotiations nnd as few
for him.
Miilnd
the
an-
:a ne-
gotlatious. and It iissuiues that this is
also what tho President has In view,
Needless to say, both the German and
Austrian notes clearly Indicate Ihelr ap-
preelatton of the timely assistance which
ha come to their peace pleas from the
United States.
Kxcept for slight variations In phrase-
These are referred to a being pertinent
only after the end of the war.
Gernril Mroimr Secret.
The Important feature of the day's
dcielnpments concerned .ho confidential
message which Mr Gei.-ird I understood
to have sent to the. State. Department
a nn appendix to the olllclnl German
reply.
Secretary Lansing declined to discuss
the peace situation In any way to-day
excepting to state that no confidential
peaco terms from Germany had been
received. But hcrenfter Mr. Lansing will
nol answer this uuosllon either In the
ntllrmatlM) or In tho. itegulive. It waa
-pliiltied. Oilier Important Information
from Mr. Gcnird Is coming vr 'H now
on tho way, nnd Secretnry Lansing will
adhere strictly to his determination not
to discuss the peaie uegotliitiouH at all.
Meanwhile new. nt ih i:nleutn em-ba-s.-ies
made ii morn thun ever evj
dent that the German or the "German
American" peace proposal will bo re
jected. "Mllltnr.v Solution" Seen.
Confldcntl.il adi in s 'which diplomats
h.tvo received from I'.ntento capitals have
temoveil the last lestlce of doubt as
to whether or not the llntento will ac
cept the piopos.il to enter a conference.
The mil -oliitu .ii to the war will be a
"military solution," according to state
ments iparle by llnteiito spokesmen to
day The fact that the German leply In
dicated Gernianv s unwillingness to
state terms icepting after n confer
ence of the belligeieniH had been called
was generally n g.-iided in llnteiito clr-
le us making the um-stlon of rcfuslne
the Get map offi r e-isler
The repot t that Germany would nd
Use President WINnn i'nntltcnlally-of
general peace term lias not made much
of nil Impression on diplomats of the
lhiteulo. They mi Hint this lmplv
signifies Geini.iti.i wish to involve
Piesldent Wilson deeper und deeper Into
11 position of cooperating with the Cen
linl Poweii .1 position which he un
wittingly has illicitly taken.
Sre Wilson n Mediator.
By making the President the recipient
of "rnnfldentlul German terms," R Is
pointed out, Germany makes tlx- Presi
dent a mediator In spite of himself. He
is placed in the position of being the
custodian of the possible "key to the
peace of Knrope," nnd i. of course,
nsked to ascertain confidentially what
the terms of the llnteiito may bo
Thus President Wilson will find him.
elf, nccorilln : to diplomats, uir ap
pointed clem ing house for peace views,
but with llio consent of Germany and
without tho consent of the Entente.
Regardless of any niovo tho President
makes unless he throws the whola
aW MZ1&JLLiZX
M, i.,.It',fc..
