OS
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CHY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Dec. 27, 30.25.
Arizona: Friday and
Saturday generally fair
not much change in
temperature.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 29, 1916.
PRICE FTVE CENTS
VOL. 19. NO. 175.
V-l
.
:A
I
.
V,
GARRANZA BEGS BUT OF
SIGNING
OFFERS
Patent America Sends Commissioners Back to Conference to
Consider First Chiefs Proposal Refusal to Sign Is Ac-L
companied by Mild Plea for Unconditional Withdrawal of
American Troops from Mexico.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Dec. 28. One more
appeal for modification of the protocol ,
nrovidine for the withdrawal of Amer- i
if-an troons from Mexico Is made by
General Carranza in a message deliv-!
ered to Secretary Lane today by Luis '
rahpem chairman of the Xexican I
members Vf the joint commission. The
Mexican first chief replied to the in-:
sistent American demand mat tne pro-1
tocol signed by his spokesmen at At-
. - : . . : i : . 1. .
lanuc city ue rauueu, nnu u ciruv
, j j . i . .' . . .
n nnnrpn uurn (iHiiiiit"iL m iiicu ur
failed to accede to the demand, but
refrained from writing anything that
-
could be construed as a flat repudia-
tion.
U. S. To Study Plan.
The latest suggestion for changes
now will be considered by the three
American representatives. Secretary
Lane, R. M'ott and Judge George
Gray.
Secretary Lane advised his coi-'0f
leagues late today of the character of
the reply and asked them to meet him
here as soon as they conveniently
could.
Answer in Week.
Early next week a joint session of
the Mexican-American commission will
be held at which the Americans will
give the Mexicans their answer and on
its nature depends the future course
of the commissioners, who were di-
rectea more man lour monius ago 10
effect, .it possible, the adjustment ol
questions at issue
between the two
countries.
Neither Mr. Cabrera nor Secretary
Lane would discuss the nature of Car-
vo n va'a ranlv Vl r In hpro laft T "T
ranza's reply. Mr. Cabrera left for war departments of the changing con
New York sc'on after its delivery and ditions in Mexico. When the fjmmis-
Secretary Lane declined to reveal its
character until it had been submitted
to his colleagues. The same reticence
" " 1 J -
Mexican Optimistic. . .
It was learned that the Mexican com-
. ..
missioners were confident that no in-
superable barrier had been raised by
Carranza. It was asserted that the ut-
most care had been exercised to keep Of San Francisco, who would be in ; tral powers. Because of the highly
out of the reply-any expressions or charge without diplomatic rank. Mr. ' confidential nature of any such nego-sr-ntiments
that might make the situa- Arredondo denied the story categor- tiations it is pointed out, the interme
tion more complicated Vr that would ically, and Uie state department was , diary would be obliged to refrain from
in any way offend the representatives
of the American government.
Withdrawal is Issue.
The chief insistence of Carranza has
been that the American troops should
be withdrawn unconditionally, was one
the American commissioners would
not consider. It was said fjnight that
Carranza's insistence on that point
was les"s pronounced and that the
change in bis attitude had been
wrought largely by the altered mili
tary situation in northern Mexico.
Rise of Villa.
There appeared reason to believe
that one of the- conditions to which
Carranza now objects is that under
which he would be obliged to garrison
the territory evacuated by the Ameri
cans as they marched out. It was
pointed out that since the protocol
was drafted the increased activities of
Villa and the steady growth of his
It
PAY
w
II PEN FOR CLEVER F
(Tiy Review Leased Wire)
OMAHA, Dec. 28. The jury in the
r use of eteven defendants charged with ,
use of the mails to defraud in spies;
of phantom wild horses in Coconino I
. j .
runiv. Arizona, laie. ronav reiurnea
a verdict W guilty against nine de-
'endants and found one not guilty. One ,
.............
detenoanr was dismissed by the judge,
The following were found guilty: The men convicted today have thirty 11 asseneu. u-r n m- them. Such persons are to be accept-
Albert Hastings. Silver Creek, Neb.; 'days in which to appeal or accept ten,,p', that thc conference sugi-esled ed only for reasons in the public in
C. W. West, Lincoln, Neb.; Wm. Hink- sentence. I should result immediately in the es- , terest, men who wish to become t)f-
ley, Brayton. Neb.; Jack Sherclift, j Evidence introduced during the trial ' "hlishment ' Iace; it is considered fleers being the only class specifically
Minneapolis; J. S. Smith, C. A. Smith,
V. M. Thorqpson, B. F. Berwjnkel, Els-! company, of which J. S. Smith was
ton, Iowa, and John Bolecy, Omaha, ! president, and the Omaha Land and
Neb. Clemency wa3 recommended for Investment company, a subsidiary con
Thompson and B"jlecy. F. V. Guid- j Cern, organized to "buy and sell wild
inger. Minneapolis, was found not ; horses." had operated in nearly all ot
guilty. L. R. West was dismissed yes- the western and middle western states.
terday by the judge, who said the pro-
secution had failed to make a case
against him.
Forty two persons originally were in-1
dieted by a federal grand Jury for sell-:
PROTOCOL ID I
niu uvvii luimu
army of bandits has made it difficult
Mr carranza 10 agree w.
siderable part of his army in the dis-
trict now occupied by Pershing when
it might be necessary to use the same i
force in meeting more active moves ot
Villa at other points.
The situation was discussed by
Secretary Lane and Mr. Cabrera after j
the communication was delivered.
mt uu uc
Carranza's representatives
Those WHO nave dmd in wucn '.... . dianhraeni. eovernine the
asserted'
'that In hia
mottA. ha nrtniQuH a willir
1 1 1 i . . i ..v. -.
lnKJL7rtatinn or the;co,un,e and cadences of tb volce and
matter he !STlmiZ ' ,uaBnified 4'0n timeS'
ratify the agreement, n n.ore ueumic ;
date for the troop withdrawal were j
specmea ana n a more icmeui mtnuu
were displayed towards the question of
increased bandit activity. i
Admits Weakness.
Carranza holds that his government ;
is doing all it humanly can to restore j
order in the north and that it will con- j
tinue to do so, but that the presence i
the American troops on Mexican j
soii is making the task more difficult f
by giving Villa and his lieutenants a '
pretext for using the disaffected to
join him in bis fight against Carranza.
The failure of Carranza flatly to re-
pudiate the proctocol made it appear i
todav that the Americans would give ;
his communication due consideration i
and that the next meeting of the joint
tjmmission might be but the first ot
a 8(.rjes at which would be continued
the efforts to effect a solution oi me ;
different problems. j
Arreoonoo iei wun
I An interesting development in the
Mexican situation generally was pre-.
sented today in reports to the state and
j V -.1. Ann-inn- -.-
sioners adjourned in Atlantic City
there were four adminif traticn officials
wno believed that Carranza's power
.1
ua DCI IUUBIJ HIV im v.. -' v . " " (
Carranza had shown strength. . The re- j
port persisted today that Ambassador-
.....
designate Arredondo naa Deen recaneu j
bv his government and that he was ,
to be succeeded by Consul de Negri, j
without information.
GREECE RESENTS
ALLIES' BLOCKADE.
j
i
ATHENS. Dec. 27, (Via Lon
don, Dec. 28.) The government i
. . , . ; . ,. , ... ... , t, ;
is addressing a second pote to the ,
entente nowers nnintin? out the .
growing popular resentment
against their blockade. The note
refers to Greece's previous eom-
munication urging mutual con-
siderations with a view fj clear-
ing the situation and says that
unless some such action is taken
shortly Greece may be forced to
seek the advice of the nation re-
specting the course to be fol-
lowed.
E" FAKERS TO
.ing mustangs alleged to be on the gov-
ernment reservation in Coc'jnino coun-
urea irom lmponea
t .... a, l , a , . t
1 1 ciiuci una . i in ui sale ior ol
.... , rl.,.., ... :
muca ii uiii uri ui liui trs uil Lilt;;
. . i
f f tho rnrtv v,un inAi..tA .
pleaded guilty to using the mails to :
defraud, 13 were released and the case ,
1
of ten went to the jury.
indicated the I'nited States Livestock
One hundred and twenty live witnesses
were subpoenaed by the government.
A majority of them said tlvy lost
sums ranging frbra $1,000 to $30,000
on wild horses. I
.. . . . j.C.I,!"" " Ollflll.
) U. S. Scientist Shows By Photo How Sound Looks1!
Another Reads Thoughts Upon an Electric Plate
. j
Wizzards Marvel at Most Uncanny Phenomenal
(Uv Review Leased Wire)
I NEW YORK. Dee. 28. A machine
I that "shows how sound looks." a re -
stored "pithecanthropus erectus who
roamed the earth 50ti,000 years ago as
the "missing link," a discussion as to
n
nether man has t.en on this conti-
nent 125.000 years or 300 000 years,
and manv addresses on modern econ-
omic and humanitarian subjects mad
' 5i" the interest at the various sessions
of h(i An)eriran Association for the
Advan0Pln,lt ol sn.-nce here loday
Photographs Voice
The sounj machine, which is called
the p,0nodeik
n exhibited bv
Prof. Dayton C Miller of the Case
school of Annlied Science. Cleveland.
0njo . He evpiai,.d that the instru -
mwlt photographs the vibrations of
"
.m..n
Contrast of Voices
Then Prof. Miller spoke the word
!"war - into the machine and a confus-
Germany Anxious for Wilson
To Wring Terms From Allies
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2S. A policy
of absolute silence regarding the
peace negotiations has been adopted
by President Wilson and Secretary
Lansing. It was stated officially today
that all steps henceforth would be re-
Karovd as confidential, that no com- i
nlent WOuld be made of any develop-
men! and that rumors will not be jCis-
in anv
T)ie decision t0 pursue this co,.,rse , to enforce peace and establishment of
was n)ade known fter th ,atp de.,an in,erational court of arbitration.
j partment had received the texts of
the German and Austrian replies to
the President's note. . .
Secrets Passing ' ;
In many quarters the official atti-
-
tude was construed as indicating that ,
secret exchanges were expected to fol- ,
1..... : AlA ... .... ...1 .1... .t .
"'fj ii-."-u n.iuini (
answers to tne entente nations to t:io
notes of President Wilson and the -en ,
admitting even that they were in prog
! ress.
Allies' Waiting Game
So f;ir as the entente pnvertmipnts
are concerned it is understood that
little if anv confidential information
s reached here to shed light on
their attitude. Consequents, there is
.,:.!,. .i..v.. .u..
nyj uiniuoiiiuu uric lu uuiiui mm 111c
1J mm prate iau
ferenrea until r.-rmnnv h in,1!tH
clearlv on what conditions she will
stnn fihtin I
Germany Anxious
On the Teutonic side, while the re
ply to President Wilson is regarded
by the German embassy as complying
with President Wilson's suggestion of j
a method of procedure, Germany is
spH to be willing to consider other
suggestions regarding methods from
any quarters including her enemies.
The views of the German govern
ment are reported- as being as fol
lows: Germans Frank
"If the entente considers that guar
antees for the future are the princi
; pal elements to be achieved, and.
lacking confidence in the German gov-
! eminent, insists upon knowing some
I tHntr of the guarantees that Germany
J is willine to give, the Berlin govern
ment might make some declaration
regarding the principles to which she
ia wj),in
to subscribe, leaving details
r- ,i 4
, i"i Briuriiiciii ill me prupuieu uou-
Terence. The German government con
sirers that there ix hn little to ht
-
C inA by pointr lnto any diarus!,ion
guarantees for the future at the ,
T1 raount i.niA In jntini,oi tfn 1
,. .... ...v. i.... """ i
1 11 necessarily woum ne or a pre- -
lin-.inary nrtture to determine whether
it might not be possible to end the
war.
Invites Neutral
According to the German diplomats,
the jl;in Germany is proceeding on
would provide that the delegates
'niiM firt scree on territorial and
immediately connected terms and that
t'm preliminary tentative territory
then should be settled upon. This
il irregular blot of light flashed upon
the si-reen. Pronunciation of "peace"
: produced a marked contrut-t, a mild
; glow regularly anil delicately outlined
' A record of Caruso's voice caused a
broad, violent fluctuating line of light,
while Tctrazzini's voice showed as a
finely penciled dancing path of light,
A record of the "Sextette from Lu-
' cia" Fhowed the individual peculiar!-
ties of the singer".
The "Missing Link"
"Pithecanthropus erectus" was in
troduced to modern society by Prof.
James McG-egor of tb department Qf
' vui..muu. '.
i 7 i e n.i...kin iTz..,,r.. it.
i was a habitat of Java.
Man 12,500 Years Old
1 TIle dlscussi
of mnn 0 NoI
ion as to the antiquity
North America before the
: i...i a
IrevoUed around human remains and
! other objects recently found at Vero,
:niuriKnu nuLiiiupjiuf.noi nitnuLninuu
Florida. . Dr. A!es Hrdlicka. curator
of anthropology at the United States
National Museum rt Washington.
4
j placed the age at 125.000 years, but
completed, the German idea is to have
all. the neutrals railed in to partici
pate in the considerations for the
guarantees for the future. They re
gard it as a matter for the confer
ence to decide whether the neutrals
should become signatories to the
peace treaty or only Xo the guaran-1
tees for peace in the future, such as
ireeaom or tne seas, limitation or ar-
maments. formation oi-xworld league
RESERVE MILITIA
mil II I llfi VA .
. MAY HA WP Til llR II I
IIIM I lift I L. I U UilILL
it c FinrJs Clause Callina fnr
w, " enI -
Organization of Battalions
of Reserves.
(By Review Leased Wire)
! WASHINGTON, Dec. 28. Every
table bodied male citizen of the United
States between the ages of 18 and 45
vears is held liahle for servfre in the
national guard in war time, without
further act of congress, by war depart-
went regulations for the government
of the guard issued under the national
defense art In rirnilor nHnIn
- .
ne8rly tWQ month8 b
C Only tOuay, tne militia bureau di-
rects that where a national guard regi-
ment is called out for war service, a
I reserve training battalion to fill vacan-
cies at the front shall be organized out
of the national guard reserve and by
I voluntary enlistments.
Op May Draft
"If for any reason," the ferder con
tinues, "there shall not be enough re-
servLsts or enough voluntary enlist
ments to organize or to keep the re
serve battalions at prescribed strength
a sufficient number of the nnorganlzed
militia shall be drafted by the Presi-1
dent to maintain such battalion or '
lesser unit at the prescribed strength."
The language of the national defense j
act with regard fj the ' organized
militia puts every male citizen Within
the prescribed age in the militia re-
Family Trouble.
The guard regulations which will be
amplified in great detail later, also
strike at the problem of dependent
families of soldiers which has cost
the government several millions of
dollars already through the border
t.-,. .. ...
inoDiiizaiion. Korrtniini MNfora e,p
the national guard are directed to dis-
oouraKe tne enlistment of married men
...
or tnose with others dependent upon
excepted.
It is provided that no officer of the
guard hereafter shall be recognized as
such under the defense act, unless he
shall have subscribed to an oath bind
ing him to obey the orders of the
President and of the governor of bis
stute. Appointments will be made on
recommendution to the secretary of
war from governors or from command-
ing officers of state or territorial units
(Continued on Page Five.
Dr. O. R. Hay of the Carnegie Insti-
tute of Washington, contended that
the evidence shows men lived here no
less than jiw.mhi years back. He took
' part in the excavation of tbe find and
said among the remnants of animals
found were bones of a ground sloth as
big as an elephant.
How the Lnited States Steel Cor-
poration has spent $5,600,000 on the
"new science of humanity," in reduc-
ing the number of accidents 43.45 per
cent and saving 14,976 men was told
, by Charles 1 Close, manager of the
i corporation'8 bureau of safety, sanita-
i iiuii onu riiai r: n ui n. 1 nis n Jl H. i
tion and .welfare work. This work
, ...... . ., .. I
has progressed to such a degree, he i cussed the possibilities of a settle-: fered as a substitute- tor the leglsla
said. that now it deserves to be called ment of the eight hour controversy, tion proposed by tbe administration
a science.
Reading of Thoughts
In the psychological division of the
' :.. a ....
trie apparatus for "judging impulses.?
, The inventor claimed that by Us aid j
i ruurruiiuu ntLeu an eier-
i one can "tell what his patient will do
j next." There also was shown a
magic mirror
taliiies."
for "measuring men-
Want Secret Parley
Diplomats familiar with the views
of Germany and her allies were es
pecially emphatic tonight in saying
that Germany necessarily would be
able to make much better terms in
j confidential negotiations than in pub-
lie. The radical element in German
! politics, it is said, must be considered.
Lnder anv iMmimstnnrpa hnwovor
' it was sai.i r.ermanv wnnM nr.i nn.
j elder making peace if the entente in-
! sists on retaining Germany's lost col-
i
onies. and requiring Germany at the 1
same time to evacuate all enemy ter- j
ritory now occupied.
Teuton Texts Differ )
The official texts of the German!
and Austrian replies, received today, j
varied slightly from each other and i
from the original cabled press trans- i
cials thought wi
lations. Most of the difference, offi -
as in the warmer, more
cordial tone of the official versions.
Differences between the two replies
were noted with interest. For instance
the German reply refers to the Presl-
dent's note as calling for the "crea- i
tion of bases for the foundation of a j Pouni
lasting peace," while the Austrian has ,
it
an exchange of views for the event
establishment of peace." Germany
PrP8fs "tb P?dy assembly on
neutral Rround of delegates of the
u propose
mat representatives or the belliger-
ent powers convene at an early date;
, , i ,. . , ..
al V,a " "euirni Kruuuu.
The most decided difference noted
as in Austria's assertion ascribing
to President Wilson himself the view
that it was necessary to postpone dia-'j
, cession of guarantees for a permanent
peace. The Austrian reply "concurs
with the President that only after the
termination of the present war will it
, be poss'ible to undertake the great and I The fuel situation resolves itseliient Fuel company, and one for the
desirable work of the prevention ot j 'nto forcing Bisbee either to use wood : Warren company soon, no coal is ex
future wars. The President's note ; or to subsist upon the meagre supply : pected by private t'Jal companies herti.
said that the United States would be if cohI whicn ,he Copper Queen i.- ! n is all confiscated in the north.
, glad to cooperate towards permanent i turnins over Uaily '"' P"1"10 distnbu- niuch by the Santa Fe railway compa-
peace, when the war is over," but
"when the war is over" but
did not specifically declare the two
subjects could not be discussed at tho
same time.
Allies Aim High
In the entente countries there is 1
UM,"",: . '""'
tees.'
Statements in the Austrian press,
which have turned from hostility to
tne p"e8idenfs note to expressions
""KResi'nK mat ne is aiueu wun tne
ce!rrtral powers for the accomplish
ment of the same end, caused further
embarassment here today in the ad
ministration's attempts to disassociate
the American action from the central
m , .
powers note or six days Detore.
' U. S. VS Germany
President Wilson, believing that the
peace discussions may ; go on for
months, is looking forward to the
most arduous and troubled work on
foreign affairs that he has ever faced.
Tbe President is said to realize that
a complete failure of the peace nego
tiations probably would be followed
by very serious difficulty with Ger
many over the submarine Issue. He
will devo'e almost his entire atten
tion to tbe negotiations and as few
engagements as possible will be made
for him
El ID
j
i
DISAGREE M QUIT; TO I
ABIDE BY ADftMSQN LftVJ
Managers Refuse to Agree to Law's Wage Scale, Till Supreme
Court Passes on Its Constitutionality Recent Award to
Switchmen by Arbitration Board Is Responsible for Man
agers' Refusal to Give In.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Dec. 28. Conferences
between representatives of the rail-
j ways and the four brotherhoods of.
1 railway employes at which were d's-
j were discontinued abruptly tcday
when it became apparent that an a-
! greement could not be reached. It
' ,,
: was saia on ootn siaes mai laere
would be no meetings until the su-
prcme court hands down its decisions
! on the constitutionality of the Adam-
j son act.
Reject Wage Schedule
j The break came when the railroad j who are members of the brotherhoods
representatives refused to concede at the rate of 10 hours pay for an
the demands of the brotherhpod chiefs ) eight hour day when the award grants
I for an agreeraeftt-poliing toward thej.pn!y nine hour's pay for eight hours
! enforcement of the new wage, rtlgif' work. The brotherhoods leaders re-
ule, fixed by the Adamson law, which 1 fused to be quoted after the meeting.
goes into effect January 1. !
The brotherhood chiefs held that
their men had the right to begin draw
ing wages according to the scale pro
vided by the Adamson law immediate
after the law became effective, irre-
spective of the suits brought by the
railways to test its validity. I land meat until at least three months
A statement issued by Elisha Lee. ' after the close of th war, according
chairman of the conference commit-.' to reports reaching the commerce de
tee of railroad managers declared: j partment from its agents abroad.
Test Case To Decide ; Higher prices will be paid than the
"The railways will await the decis- dominion's export supply commanded
ion of the supreme court on the Adam
son faw test case. This agreement
with th rwartment r,f Ji.uti.- with
t h. ..ii.j. k,... iTw.iv, hnn.
iary 1. The rights of the employes in
J the interval thus will be amply pro-
' "
tected.
;
'
WIPE-BEATER FINED
DOLLAR A POUND.
ITEIILO. C'jIo. Dee. 28 "What
do you weigh?" Judge Crossman
1 asked Mrs. James Arris in police
! court today. Arris was arrested ;
for beating his wife.
. "One hundred pounds." the wo-
' n,an answered.
! "You are fi"ed $100," said the
magistrate to Arris, "a dollar a
Arris paid.
BISBEE IS lU FOB LONG. COLD
WINTER, WITHOUT MUCH COAL
The District now finds itself the in- YoakSm and will be shipped here just
nocent "goat" of a freeze-out game, in
i .u: u . i t...i , v
i
I to "sil ,i,:ht" and alt for ,b, ronllnp
,ot apring.
uou'
.no relief anead can De seen. j ,g said.
Local coal operators frankly throw : ist month, according to word from
up their hands in despair at getting Gallup, the Santa Fe used 6000 tons
coal from any source whatever for the ' of the Gallup output, confiscated an
next month or two to come. Perhaps other 1000 tons, leaving only 1000 I'jr
iau occasiuuai car may uiiumi.u
but nothing substantial.
Letters to local coal men from Daw-
son, Gallup and numerous other points
,of .UDDlv hear the same sad message,
I that there- nothing doing, some ot
j tneM ajjing that no coal may be ex-
pected from them during
the entir?
winter season. output.
Hope still lives that the Copper t The Arizona and New Mexico cor
Queen will continue to come to lh poration commissions are doing all in
District's aid. as it has been doing, their power to relieve the situation.
Yesterday two cars more of Dawson but the word of Gallup may be taken
coal came in on the siding, and it Is us final, that practically no t'jal ran
understood at least one of these cars ' be sent from there during January an1
will be placed in the hands of the ( possibly not until much later.
Warren District Commercial club for The situation resolves itself into re
public disposal. 'conciling the district to the shipments
The Bisbee Fuel & Feed company of coal over by the Copper Queen and
has about eight cars of wood on hand, , to wood, shipped in from the mouiv
Iauj 3 having it sawed as fast as pos-
slble, but already there are over 600 ( What cal has slipped to local deal
orders in, and the last of these will ' ers. it appears, has cost them practi
not be supplied till some time next : cally as much as they are getting for
week. Manager Yoakum said last it. As Yoakum said last night: "We're
night if the people w'juld reconcile being damned a lot and we take it
themselves to wood, he'd try to keep good naturedly, but we're not profiting
all of his old customers supplied, and by this coal famine. We are trying in
many new ones. Upwards of thirty every way possible to help, not hinder
cars of wood have been ordered by : the situation."
MANAGERS
"The statement has been made in
, the press that the conference -com-" ;
mil tee has beea occupied preparing a j
bill to be supported, by the railroads) I
and the employe alike, and to be of-
to hold tli? eases In abeyance.; The
national conference eonrmitte ;ha3
not been a party to such a program."
, Hope of R. R.
The railroad managers held It would
i be folly for them, in view of the award
' made last week by a board of arbitra-
! tion in the case of the switchmen's
! union, to pay the 59,009 switchmen
NEW ZEALAND'S MEAT IS
CORNERED BY BRITAIN
WASHINGTON. Dec. 2S. The Brit
ish government has contracted for the
entire exportable supply of New Zea-
last year. -
;
U. S.
AERO SQUADRON
s TO EE INSPECTED
SAN DIEGO. Dec. 23 Lieut Colonel
Bennett jf the Seventh V. S. Infantry,
one of the first officers to be graduat
ed from the field officers' aviation
school here, received orders today to
proceed to Columbus. N. M.. and San
Antonio. Texas. He will inspect the
First Aero Squadron base at O.durubus
and later the Third and Fourth Aero
Squadrons at San Antonio.
STORM TOLL IS 17.
; LITTLE ROCK. Ark.. Dec. 28. The
death of one of the persons injured
in Tuesday's tornado and the finding
of two more bodies In wreckage near
Pine Bluff, increased the storm's death
roll today to seventeen.
83 8,on 88 the Mexican gangs in the
riiountains can get in through the su'jw
and cut them,
. With the exception of two cars ot
u-oal due tomorrow for the Independ-
ny '"UP ,la (,(B ,u toiorauo. n
me coal company iu supuiy us cusiuiu-
ers all over the southwest.
The Santa Fe. it is , rumored, had
: contemplated putting oil burners in
i it ensrines. onlv to fail at the last
moment, when it had not taken the
precaution to store a supply ot coal.
and now is taking Gallup's winter
tains nearby.
