ON A REPUBLICAN
XXL.
AN iin9DENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 29, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVIT, NO. 224
rrvnr
ABIZ
IFICAT1
s urged by
gen. carranza
rRerubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON'. Dee. 28. One more
appeal for modification of the protocol
1'toviding for the withdrawal of the
American troops from Mexico is made
by General Carranza in a message de
livered to Secretary Lane today by
l.uis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexican
members of the joint commission. The
Mexican first chief replied to the in
sistent American demand that the pro
tocol signed by 1ns spokesmen at At
lantic City lie ratified, with an S00
word document in which he failed to
accede to the demand, hut refrained
from writing anything that could be
construed as a flat repudiation.
The latest suggestions- for changes
in the agreement now will be consid
ered by the three American represen
tatives, Secretary Lane, J. R. Mutt, and
Judge George Gray. Secretary Lane
advised his colleagues late today of the
character of the reply and ask'd them
to meet him here as soon as they con
veniently could.
Early next week a Joint session of
the Mexican-American commission will
be held at which the Americans will
give the .Mexicans their answer and on ;
irs nature dcnenils the filter- murse ml
the commissioners, who were directed
more than four months ago to effect,
if possible, ihe adjustment of questions
at issue uetween the two countries.
Neither Mr. Cabrera nor Secretary
Lane would discuss the future of Cnr
ranza's reply. Mr. Cabrera left for
New York soon after its -delivery and
Secretary Lane declined to reveal i'.s
character until it had been submitted
to his colleagues. The same reticence
was displayed at the Mexican eml-assy.
It was learned that the Mexican com
missioners were confident that no in
superable barrier had been raised by
t'arranza. It was asserted that the
utmost care had Aeen exercised to keep
out of the reply any expression or sen
timents that might make the situation
more complex or that would in any
way offend the representatives of the
American government. The chief in
sistence of Carranza has been that the
American troops should be withdrawn
unconditionally, which the American
commissioners would not consider, it
was indicated tonight that l arrar-ia r
insistence on that point was less pro
nounced now and that the change in
his attitude had be.n wought largely
by the altered military situation in
northern Mexico.
There appeared reason to believe that
one of the conditions to which Carran
za now objects is that under which he
would be obliged to garrison the terri
tory evacuatML i the American as
They marched out. It was pointed out
that since the protocol was drafted the
Increased activities of Villa a"d the
steady growth of his army of bandits
ha'ss made it difficult for Carranza to
agree to use ony considerable part of
his army in the district now occupied
by Pershing when it might be neces
sary to use the same fnre in meeting
more active moves of Villa at other
points.
The situation was discussed by Mr.
Cabrera and Mr. Lane after the com
munication had been delivered. The
two men lunched together at Secretary;
Lane s club. They talked over in a .
wholly informal way the objections
Carranza had to the Protocol as it was
drafter1, and Mr. Cabrera "ointed out
that Mr. Carranza recognized the ne
cessity of maintaining the good will or
the United States.
Those who have been in touch with
Carranza's representatives asserted
(Continued on Paee Two)
United Cattle and Sheep
Men Will Fight to Finish
For the first time in history, th
tattle men of Arizona and the shep
growers met on commn ground yes
terday, and: admitted that the prob
lems having to do with the raiin& of
grazing fees in the national forest
reserves -were to ba fought out with
a solid front.
It was the biggest meeting ever
held by either tho Aiizona Wool
Growers' Association or by the Ari
zona Cattle Growers' Association,
lietween SO and 100 of the leading
cattle and wool men of the state met
in the morning at the Hotel Adnnis,
appointed committees to meet as a
joint committee in the afternoon, and
talked over the problem of fighting
Mail. Your Check Today
Republican's Annual Bargain Subscription
offer is open now. Save 40 per cent offer
good only once each year.
$75
ONg YEAR
7 Days a Week
Every Morning
The Republican is the only newspaper in
Arizona publishing seven days in the week
52 issues more than any other paper in
the state.
You are entitled to the best. Mail that $5.75
to the Republican today offer good only
once each year.
Sixth Annual Bargain
IVES' OFFER OF NEW
PACT IS DECLINED BY
CAMPBELL ATTORNEYS
Expressing confidence that every
tally of Inspector Homer Wood has
been right, and will stand in law,
Eugene S. Ives, counsel for (Jovernor
Hunt in the gubernatorial election
oldest, 1 ft for Tucson last night,
after having: failed to isecure a now
series of stipulations with Campbell
attorneys before Judee R. C. Stan
foid. He has advised Governor Hunt to
retain possession of his quarters at the
state house, unless between now and
.Monday, the inspection should show
changes in the totals, less favorable to
the contestant.
"The presumptidn of Campbell's
election by a majority of 30! has been
ovet thrown. On this showing, I would
advise the governor not to turn over
the office Monday," said Mr. Ives last
evening, just before his departure.
I.es admitted that there was a pos
sibility that the status might be
changed between now and the, expira
tion of the Hunt term. He claimed,
however, that the total net gain for
Hunt of 77 votes in the inspection
thus far, was basr.l not on disputed
ballots but upon actual count, chamr
in" the official figures in a number of
precincts.
Judge Stanford yesieroay run upon-
R "sloan Campbell's chief counsel,
' ' . ' .. ... itj.nt
and Mr. Ives, and suggested to theal
that in the interests of expedition, they
enter into a supplementary stipulation.
Ives offered to agree that if tt'1ili'-
Inaugural to be
Planned by the
County Chairmen
If Monday is fine, Thomas E. Camp
bell, republican governor-elect, will
speak his inaugural address from the
same spot to which G. W. P. Hunt
walked, five years ago, and became
(Jovernor Hunt.
This was the announcement of the
republican state central committee of
ficials yesterday. It was also stated,
that chairmen of the fourteen county
central committees had been made a
committee to arrange the inaugural
ceremonies, which will be marked by
truc Jeffersonian simplicity, if such a
term can be swiped bodily- from the
democratic dictionary.
At any rate, the formal oath will be
delivered to the governor-elect about
ten o'clock by Chiefr Justice Henry
I a vis Ross of the stat? strprefBeT-rouirr.'
The only other item on the program,
known as yet, is the short address
which Mr. Campbell will make.
A good deal 'of talk is being indulged
in as to who will preside at the affair.
It is customary for the retiring official
to take the chair, but in this case, there
is considerable question as to the gov
ernor's willingness to introduce Mr.
Campbell to hfs audience. Introductory
remarks are. by ancient and honorable
custom, totally laudatory, and if the
governor doesn't think enough of Mr.
Campbell to give up his office for that
tan enap. it is aouotiui 11 ne win cure
to have the pleasure, ladles and gentle
! men, of presenting to you on this aus
: piciou occasion, our next chief
i executive.
In the event Governor Hunt declirua
j to act, Richard B. Sloan, who was Ari-
zona's last territorial governor, and
incidentally the last republican execu
I tive the state had, will preside at Ihe
i meeting.
the proposed raising of the grazing
fees.
The committee appointed by the
! wool men was comixised of Senator
' H. E. Campoell of Flagstaff, E. A.
Sawyer of Winslow and John Hen
nessy of Flagstaff, while the commit
tee which represented the cattle men
was composed of Judge W. G. Shute
or Globe, E. H. Crabb of Flagstaff
and VV. W. Cook of Phoenix.
At the meeting of the joint com
mittee in the afternoon, a brief whm
drawn un, putting forth the claims of
the cattlo and sheep men. This brief
will be presented to the .utionnl
WooP Growers' Association at its
meeting to be' held in Salt lake on
Jcnuary 6, and to the meeting of the
575
"I
goes into court and becomes a re
count, instead of an inspection, the
trial be confined to ballots laid aside
as questionable. This, Judge Sloan de
clined to do.
Ives then offered to submit the vari
ous classes of ballots, disclosed in the
inspection, to Judge Stanford prior to
the opening of a trial, so his honor
might make rulings on how the various
sorts of questioned ballms should be
counted. Judge Sloan declined to enter
this agreement.
Ives finally proposed that the attor
neys submit all their authorities to
the judge, so that when the case comes
to trial, it need not be interrupted by
long court arguments and the submis
sion of authorities. It was apparently
Ives' Intention to stipulate that no au
thorities should be submitted other
than those placed before the court prior
to the beginning of the case. Judge
Sloan declined this offer, also.
That the rumor the contestant hud
offered to sell possession of the office,
on a time stipulation, as he had sold
! the certificate for Ihe agreement of
I rlin nnnlnulufi 1 1 h'l'ci thi I 1 I I, 1 i I . 11 Yf -
instated, Mr. Ives denied. The rumor
was current yesterday that Ives hail
attempted to stipulate with Sloan that
if Hunt delivered the paraphernalia of
office over to Campbell next Monday,
Campbell would consent to set K time
(Continued on I'age Three)
Board No. 2 is .
Holder of New
Indoor Record
Hoard No. 2, working on the Pima
county ballots in the inspection for the
contest between Governor Hunt and
Governor-elect Campbell, went over 16
precincts yesterday, looked at 2"0u
ballots and then threw, a chest at the
members of Hoards No. 1 and 3. And
well they might, for their work yester
day constitutes a record Dunbar says
a world's record.
In a strong Campbell field it was
not necessary to dally long over the
ballots. Inspector Ciaflin would reach
for a sheet, snap out. "Split for Camp
bell," shoot it to Dunbar, who would
; echo the words and consign the ballot
f to the heap. There was so little doing
! that the board was enabled to grind
i out tallies at a rapid rate. Abotlt 1S00
were inspected during the, forenoon.
including one precinct with 107u votes.
Getting into a nest of small precincts
cut mrwrt the speed orewhnv for" it)
changing from one division to another,
it is necessary to saw open seals, write
new tally "sheets and sort over and
straighten the heap of papers.
According to an observer, who has
kept in touch with the work on ail
three boards, about one in ten ballots
is being laid aside as questionable.
j This figure is considered high, how
I ever. The three boards have counted.
j to d:e, about 23,000 ballots, meaning
all of Maricopa, Graham and Yuma
and parts of Pima, Yavapai and
Mohave.
There were about 63.000 ballots to
be inspected, meaning that 42,000 re
main to be looked over.
The average rate of speed of the
boards is about 2,000 a day, or 6,000
in all. This means that there are
seven days more counting to be done,
which should end the inspection by
January 6, two days ahead of the time
estimated by Judge Stanford day be
fore yesterday.
American National Livestock Associa
tion to ibe held in Cheyenne on Jan
uary 18-21. At the latter meeting
'.Secretary of Agriculture Houston will
be present.
I What They Intend to Do
j Probably the outstanding feature of
I the whole day's session was the fiL-t
j that the sheep and cattle men, for
. geneiations sworn enemies, got to
leether and agreed upon every point
brought up. There Is no intention on
i the part of these two great Industries
to allow the forest service to make
them pay additional grazing fees to
i furnish funds for government activ
! itics with which they have nothing in
common. It is intended to take the
fight to the very head of the govern
ment. If Secretary Houston cannot
see his way clear to recommend th
raising of the money in some other
manner it is planned to take the
fight into congrees and show why
the cattle and sheep Industries can
not, afford o bear the burden.
E. H. (Jack) Crabb of Flagstaff.
one tt the leading cattlemen in the
state nnu a member of the executive
committee of the National Livestock
Growers' Association, was the prin
clpnl speaher at the day's session.
He explained that there was a defi
cit of J2,r,00,000 in the forest reserve
funds, and tnat congress was con
tinually asking the service why It is
not self supporting. The service,
stung hv the criticism, lias deter
mined to make the grazers py the
bill, and . has nroposed a n-ise in
grazing fees. Mr. Crabb pointed nrtt
that this was manifestly unfair, when
there were clehtv-two activities in
which the forest service spends
"money, by the selling of timber and
'the renting of crazing Hurts.
Then. too. Mr. Crpbb pointed out
that tho Arizona district, was self
(-importing, but that manv of the "s
tricls in other states are not. Te
cattle and sheen men of this state do
not n'npopp. "nid Mr. Crab'l, to pay
the hill's of their neighbors.
Two-thin's of ttie forest s"pe'-visorR
of th" Miuthwe-t, find rraziner super
intendents, were -rtrwort nt th1 piet
Hei. Inelu-l'K" Jon Ke-r of A'bu
cnrrnlle, ch'rf n rr'rrtrr f(yr thlt
K-triot J. P. nutbrie. ropq piinWr
'visor of Coconino, and Harold Green,
'forest a"'vrvj-or ' Tufiyan.
In ddition t beinr t)-e n"okei-m,"i
Vor the enttle mnn of th s'nte, E. H
'Crabb was inFtrumental in getting
(Continued on Page Three!
EIGHT-HOUR IN
DISCUSSED Si"
RAILROAD HO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Dec. 28. Conferences
between representatives of the rail
roads and the four brotherhoods of
railway employes at which wpre dis
cussed the possibilities of a settlement
of the eight-hour controversy, were
uisconiinued abruptly today when it
became apparent an agreement could
not be reached.
It was announced by both sides that
there would be no more meetings until
after the t'nited States supreme court
hands down its decision on the consti
tutionality of the Adamson act.
The break came when the railroad
representatives refused to concede the
demands of the brotherhood chiefs for
an agreement looking toward the en
forcement of the new wage schedule,
fixed by the Adamson law, which goes
into effect January 1.
The brotherhood chiefs held that
their men had the right to begin draw
ing the wages according to tho scale
pro ided by the Adamson law imme
diately after the law became effective,
irrespective of the suits brought by
the railroads to test its validity.
A statement issued by Klisha Lee,
chairman of the conference committee
of railway managers, declared:
"The railroads will await the decision
of the supreme court in the Adamson
law test case, lly agreement with the
department of justice at Washington
the railroads will keep a record from
January 1 of the wages of all employes
affected by the Adamson law in order
that if the law is upheld by the court
the employes will receive the extra
back pay due them. The rights of the
erflpioyes in the interval thus will lie
amply protected.
"The statement has been made in
the press that the conference commit
tee lias been aiding in Vreparing a bill
to be supported by the railroads and
the employes alike, and to be offered
as a substitute for the legislation pro
posed by the administration to hold
.strikes in abeyance until after an in
vestigation by a public body. The
national conference conimiitee has not
been a party to such a program."
The railroad managers held it .would
be folly for them, in view of the award
made la-st week by a board of arbitra
tion in the case of the switchmen's
union, to pay the 50.000 switchmen who
are members of the brotherhoods at
the rate of ten hours' pay for an eight
hour day when the award, grants only
nine hours pay for eight hours' work.
The brotherhood leaders refused to be
quoted after the meeting.
D . .
MEETS MEX BANDITS
IS NOW IN HOSPITAL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OAKLAND. Cal., Dec. is. Freder
ick Kl'sworth is a pitient in the
county infirmary here today r?cupcr
ating from hardshii s Incident to his
recent encounter with fift-en Mexi an
bandits who he says robbed his mine
and that of a neighbor in the Mex
ican state of Durante six weeks ago
taking in all, jr.'.f.oo in i-nld. Flls
worth and Jack Barrett, who worked
an adjoiniig claim, arrived here on
a tramp steamer from Miz:'t!a
whlthT thuy walked 125 miles after
rhe raid, ho said. UarrU is in Siir.
Jose'. Cal.
Fllsworth is 63 years old and th"
brother of Oliver Ellsworth, a
Hawaiian plantation owner. His
homw is in Newport, R. I.
o
REFUSE TO PROSECUTE -
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVF.R, Dec. 2S. Preceding
against M. P. I!asin?er and (ilen Hor
ton. charged with operating a con
fidence game in connection with the
sale of ore samples, were halted in
district court today by the failure of
rosisi'ting witnesses to appear. Men
who claimed to have been defraude '
through the purchase of samples,
wine said to have declined to apietr
when they discovered the possihilit.
of liability for purchasing alleged
'stolen property.
DENIAL OE ALL
.Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 28. Carter
C. Crowley, the detective charged by
Louis J. Smith, the government's chiel
witness, with complicity in the scheme
of war munition dynamiting perpetrat
ed or attempted, to which Smith con
fessed on the witness stand, entered a
complete denial of Smith's charges to
day in the government's prosecution ol
Franz Bopp, German consul genera!
here, and six others for alleged viola
tion of the neutrality or the United
States. Crowley, indicted, as was Smith, with
Bopp and consular attaches, admittec
the trips into Canada and alory? the
border. which the prosecution intro
duced in evidence, but he said his ac
tivities had been confined to investi
gation of alleged violation by entente
nations of American neutrality.
Among other important facts uncov
ered, Crowley said, and duly reported
to his employer, Bopp, were that
Lieutenant Johnston of the United
States navy had resigned to become a
submarine assembling expert for Rus
sia, and that parts of American-made
airplanes, destined for British use were
at one time stored in the New York
militia armory at Buffalo.
More than forty telegrams exchanged
by the witness and consular officials
werf Identified by Smith as concerning
his efforts to obtain information re
garding Canadian munition shipments
and troop movements.
Crowley completed his direct testi
mony today and will be cross-examined
tomorrow.
CROWLEY MAKES
SIT EE
S
IECRECY HEREAFTER
EACE NEGOTIATIONS AN
COMMENT 0
TEXT OF A USTRIAN
NOTE IS RECEIVED
TRecublican A P. Leasctv Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2K. The text
of the Austrian note, sent through Am
bassador Penfield, and received late to
day follows:
"Aido memoir?. In reply to the aide
memoir- communicated on the twenty -'second
instant by his excellent-;, , the
American ambassador, containing the
proposals of the president of tile I'nitcd
Slates of America lor an exchange of
views among tic- powers at present at
war for the eventual i stablislunent of
peace, the impt rial and loyal govern
ment ilesirts particularly to point out
that i:i considering the uoi.le proposal
of the president it is guided by the
same spirit of amity and complai.-;fnce
as finds expression therein.
"The president desire to establish a
basis for a lasting poui-e without wish-
-
DOLLAR PER POUND
FOR BEATING WIFE
ri'F.P.LO. Colo., Dec. 2S. "What
do you weigh'.'" Judge R. A. Cross
man asked Mrs. James Arris in
police court today. Arris was ac
cused of beating his wife.
"One hundred pounds," the
woman answered.
You are fined $100.00 said the !
magistrate, to Arris, "a dollar a i
i pound." I
I Arris paid. I
ABLE BODIED
MALE CITIZENS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I DRAFTED
vvAMii.Miiu.v, uec, -s. dk-i) j oeen repulsed wnn ne.ivy losses. ex-;PresMtnt vwison s suggestion in re
able bodied male citizen between the ccpt at the village of Rakal, which : gard to method of procedure, C.erma:
ages of 18 and 45 years is held liable has been occupied by them. British; is said to be willing to consider othor
for service in the national guard in ' aimed motor cars, says Pttrograd, ! suggest ions regarding methods from
war time, without further act. of con-i did great execution in this fighting. ; any qu.mer, including her enemies,
gress, by war department regulations! Considerable fighting has again tak-! The views of the German govern -for
the government of the guard issued en place on the Verdun sector around j ment farther are represented as being
under the national defense act. In 'l-e Mort Homme and on the eastern : as follows:
a circular prepared nearly two months slopes of Hill iid4, where the Germans , If the entente considers that suar-
ago, but made public only today, the
militia Li.., Hirt that whro
national guard regiment is called out bombardment of the German positions,
for war service, a reserve training ; Llsewhere along tho I-rench front
battalion to fill vacancies at the front ner,p have hil" n reciprocal bom
i n v. i t .i - . . i bardments and attacks by small pa-
shall be organized out of the nati nal interspersed with fights
guard reserve and by voluntary enlist- , jn ,hJ air :l'm, aeri.'ll rajds hy FrcK
men:' , . . i Pritish and German aviators. In the
"If for any reason, the order con- Pncounters in the air each side js re
tinues, ' there shall not be enough re- ,K)rteu lo iwve 1(8t machines,
servlsts or enough voluntary enlist-j In th;, Austroltaiian theater the
ments to organize or to keep the re- weather has cleared and the artillery
serve battalions at prescirbed strength, j dwlst h-tve been renewed with vigor,
a sufficient number of the unorganized ; especially on the Carso front. In
militia shall be drafted by the presi- j Macedonia, except for British attacks
dent to maintain such battalion or against the Bulgarians northeast of
lesser unit at the prescribed strength."! lake Doiran, which Berlin reports
The language follows closely that ; were successful, comparative quiet
of the national defense act in which j still prevails.
the unorganized militia is defined as i Sooth of Brody in Galicia, the Ger
including every able bodied male citi- ' mans have brought their howitzers
zen within the prescribed age limit ! into play against Russian positions
or those who have declared their in- and at various points have damaged
tention of becoming citizens. tnf,'r H?10," , .
Tho national Biinrd ' reiruln t ions. L nofficial advices received in Lon-
which will be amplified in great de
tail later, so strike at the problem of ,
dependent families of soldiers which
has cost the government several mil
lions of dollars already through the
border mobilization. Recruiting offi
cers for the national guard are di-'
rected to discourage the enlistment of
married men or those with others de- (
pendent upon them. Such persons are i
to be accepted only for reasons in !
the public interest, men whom wish I
to become officers to be the only i:lass J
acceptable. I
Appointments will be made on j
recommendation to the secretary of i
war from governors or commanding
officers of state or territorial units j ease of eleven defendants charged Arert Hastings. Silver Creek. Neb. I
of the guards, and after proper physi- with use of the mails to defraud in c. AY. West. Lincoln, Neb.; William
cal or mental examination by boards i Kaps of phantom wild horses In I Hikly, Biaton, Neb.; B F. Per
ot officers. I'romotions will C( Cf) j wfnkle, Ellstor. Iowa; Jack Sherclift,
handled in the same way and any; " ' -'Minneapolis; J. P. Smith, C. A. Smith,
officer who fails in the examination j returned a verdict of guilty against j c. m. Thompson and John Bolecy,
is to his professional ability cannot j nine defendants and found sne not i Omah3, Neb. Clemency was recom
come up for re-examination within a" guiitv. One defendant was dismissed j mended for Thompson and Bolecy.
year. ' by the judge. v- " luidinger. Minneapolis. Minn.
After three years' active service or Several indictments are pending. ' was found dot guilty. L. R. West, of
when the organizations are disbanded, i Some of these, federal attorneys inti- i ls Moines, was dismissed yesterday
(Continued on Page Two)
Monroe Doctrine Safe Even ,
If U. S. Enters Peace League
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KFAV YORK. Dec. 28. ror tne!
United States to join a league of na-
tions to enforce world peace after the
io..i-r,nn n-ar "would in no
wise' be jeopardizing the Monroe doc -
trine certainly not to any greater ex -
tent than it already has been jeopar
dized by some thirty-odd treaties,"
was the view expressed here tonight in
a formal statement issued by the
League to Enforce Peace, of which
former President Tatt is tne nean.
The fact Is that since 1913," the
statement savs, "the United States has!
become a party to treaties with France.)
Great Britain Russia, other European i
..... . :
it nd South 'and Central American
states in which the high contracting
parties agree that all disputes be
tween them of every' nature whatso-
N DEVELOPME
ing to indicate the ways and means.
The imperial and royal government
considers a direct exchange of views
among the belligerents to be- the most
suitable way of attaining this end.
Advertising to its declaration of the
twelfth instant in which it announced
its readiness to enter into peuce nego
tiations, it now lias the honor to oro-
pose that representatives of the being-I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
erent powers convene at an eariv date1 WASHINGTON, Dec. 2K. A policy
at some place on neutral ground. ! lf absolute silence regarding the
"The imperial and royi.l government I l"'aee negotiations has been adopted by
likewise concurs in the opinion of t. i President Wilson and Secretary Lan
president that only after the tormina-i sing- 11 was stilted officially today
tion of the present war will it lie poss- tnat a" teps henceforth would he
ible to undertake the great and desir- i regarded as confidential, that no corn
able work of the prevention of future , ment wil1 ,ie made on ary development
wars. At an appropriate time it will ! and that rumors will not be discussed
be willing to rcmperate with the United ' in any ,way-
States. 4jf America for the realization The decision to pursue this course
of this noble
SAYS TEUTONS
ARE ADVANCING
Republican A. p. Leased Wire
Rerlin records fresh advances for
the Teutonic allies against the Rus-
c,!nrm m nrnnnT !
L ft J
si-ins and Rumanians in AVallachia. ' So far as the entente governments
The invaders now are advancing to-; are concerned, it is understood that
v:ird Folshani. Three thousand more'iittle if any confidential information
prisoners and Tl machine guns have . has reached here to shed more light on
been captur"d by tiie invaders, bring- i their attitude . than has been given
ing tho niimbor of men taken in the publicly in the speeches of their
Rimnik-Sarat maneuver up to 10, 220. premiers and the comment of their
Although lierlin reports that the pre3s. Consequently, there is no dis
Teutor.ic allies in Dohrudja are keep-! position here to doubt that the allies
ing up their pressure againsf the unanimously will refuse to -eiiisr jtn..
"assians and Rumanians and' liavn sdrt Sf-peaCe conference until Germany
forced the Russiuns from fortified ; has indicated clearly on what condi
height jiositions east of Matchin, on tions s'-ie will top fighting,
the east bank of the Danube opposite ', On the Teutonic side, while the reply
lfraila. Petrograd announces that the ' to President Wilson is regarded by the
invaders south of the Danube have 'German embassv as comnlvini? iith
' an mmm dui were repuisea.
a.und wnere later, tne trench began
(Continued on Pago Seven)
NINE "WILD HORSE" DEFENDANTS
GUILTY; ASK CLEiENCf FDR ID
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OMArtA, Dec. 2S. The jurv in the
mated, would be dismissed and the:"' m ;uw mio xaia me prosecu
remainder brought to trial. When ' ,1" failed to make a case against
' ever, to the settlement of which
previous aruurauon treaties oi ag.ee--
ments do not apply in their terms or
j are not applied in fact shall, when
: diplomatic methods of adjustment have
; failed, be referred for investigation
I and Report to an international com-
mission ana mey agree not to ueciare
war or begin hostilities during such
investigation and before the report is
submitted. , t
, . 'The report Shall be pre-
I sented in the maximum period of one
year. These treaties have still some
time to run.
"Plainly, therefore, the United States
s already bound to submit disputes
alran i nirril iri no- lha "Trtit--fi ilnrtrina trt
I.,.. nn- ux. v,vi.,.
a body which will meet the require-
ments of the platform of the League
to Enforce Peace.'
TO VEIL
NTS
Si ABSOLUTE
SILENCE IS ID
was made known after the state de
partment had received the official
texts of the German and Austrian re
plies to President Wilson's identical
notes to the belligerents proposing a
i discussion of peace terms and after it
1 was learned that the Teutonic powers
; would be willing to permit a confiden
! tial exchange of tentative terms if it
j became necessary to do so to bridge
the gap threatening to prevent a gatli
t ering of peace delegates.
In many quarters the official attitude
i was construed as indicating that secret
i exchanges were expected to follow if
they did not precede the formal
answers to the entente nations to the
notes of President Wilson and the cen
tral powers. Because of the highly
confidential nature of any such nego
tiations it is pointed out, the intt-r-
1 1.J l. -.11: 1 . . i .
j iiicumij nnuiu uc uujigcu to leiraui
from admitting even that they were in
progress. i i'-SATTi
j aniees ior tne luture are tne princip.
elements to be achieved, and lacki. g
confidence in the German government,
insists upon knowing something of t:.
guarantees that Germany is willing to
give, the Berlin government mig i
make some declaration regarding t:
principles to which she is willing !
subscribe, leaving details for seal'
ment at the proposed conference, i'i
German government considers th .
there is but little to be gained by goii.
into ary lengthy discussion of guaran
tees fcr the future, with the presei .
war in progress. In this connecii .
Germany, it is asserted, never has in
tended that the conference suggest- i
should result immediately in the estai
lishment of peace it is considered
that it necessarily would be of a .- -liminary
nature to determine whe lv -it
might not be possible to end the w .
According to the German diplftn
the plan Germany is proceeding u,
would provide that the deie.'u
should first agree upon territorial m.,
(Continued on Page Two;
trial will be held was not made
kroun-
it i in.
Forty-two persons originally were
indicted by a federal grand jury for
selling mustangs, alleged to be on
the government reservation in Coco
nino county, Arizona, as "bred from
imiKirtod Percherons." Bills of sale
lor six: times the number of horses
on the range were filed at Flagstaff
I Arizona, witnesses for the government
lesmiea. i ne prosecution anegeu a
million dollars was secured by the
I defendants through the fraudulent
, of th. .nr,vtwn mnn in,iicted
Uv() rle.lded 5,liltv- to usini, tne m.lils
, t(, dpfralld 13 were released, and the
i f ta in tho i,,v,-
! The men convicted todav have thirty
d in wnioh t0 appeal or accept
sentPn(e
. Kvidl!r,'CP Introduced during the trial
ndic&ted the United States Livestock
i Company, of which J. S. Smith, was
I nrHnt sinr! tho rinnha tnn,l nnri
investment Comnanv. a subsidiary
, concern, organized to "buy and sell
wild' horses-," had operated in nearly
a1 of tne western and middle western
states. One hundred and twenty-five
' i j i '
witnesses were suopoenaeu ov tne
I government. A majority of them said
thev lost ums ranging from ?1,0U0
to $30,000 on wild horses.
i
