p. t'-f'i ' '.
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LNCOLN COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29th, 1916.
NUMBER 45
NEWPORT
Died at his home at Newport,
Oregon, December" 23d. J91G, A.
H. Limbocker, aged. 7,9 years 1
month. Deceased was horn in
Iona, Michigan, November ' 23d,
1837, came to Newport In J 9.08
where he lived up to the time of
his death. ' He bujlt a beautiful
home in one of, the most pleas'
ant parts of the city whejie Je
lived in comfort except from a
Hardened condition of the ar
terles of which, he had been af- music was under the direction
fllcted for many years. ' He was of ' Elmer Patrick and this will
a member of the G. A. R. and account for its Bpiendid qualities.
faithfully served Wb country for Several needy famlies were pro -
four years. He' lnlisted injvided for and the spirit of the
Company B, 44 niinoU Infantry. ' Great Teacher seemed to pre-
He was twice married but both ,vade the whole people. Every
of his wives are now dead. Ho one got a present. "It is better
came to Oregon in 1900 and to give than receive." .
lived tor a while in Corvallls. He j Capt. It. D, Morse of the Ah-
is the first one of a family of waneda is now at home visiting
three to die. He is survived by his family. He has an interest-
one Dromer, a. jj. umoocker, jng story to tell of the people Saturday morning which was
who lives in Corvallls, at the of Mexico. lie was as fan aa followed by a dinner and a so
ripe age of 83: and a sister, Mrs. Mazateland one thousand miles ',clal time was enjoyed. On Sat
Foster who lives at Ote3o, ; South of Vera Cruz. The Cap- ,urday evening the Christmas
Michigan. The funeral services tcin says that no tongue can di3- tree and exercises were held at
were conducted by Rev. G. T. cribe the conditions in Mexico. ! the Grant School House which
Pratt, pastor of the Presbyterian n one cjty alone five thousand jwas well attended in spite of the
Church and the Intmnent took nien and women and children 'stormy evening. The Spout
p.ace In the Eureka cemetery In are siarving to death. No re- i Creek school held their exer
this city. For many years he gard jH pad to life or property. ,clses on Christmas day, having
had suffered and his ailments Anarchy, rapine and murder a program by the school and a
grew worse as he grew cider and reign supreme. The Captain tree followed by a dinner, so
he became weary of life, wanting say8 villa, Zapata, Dias and everv "e was given an oppor
to be at rest. He spoke several other leaders of the bandits take tunity to partake of the Christ
im!ut0.,,i8 n!5Shbl. Baying delight in murdering Americans. mas cheer. The program at
u they did not sea any smoke instead of 500 being killed in each school wos well rendered
at his house to come and see Mexico some have been burned and the pupils did their teachers
matter" ,Thi imf at the stake. It is not a matter .credit,
piled that he contemplated sui- 0f dollars and cents but of hu-1 Jess Davenport who is em
?i o;5,he!?e,;,ua,t.8 P- M- canity, to stop the awful car-iPd at Mill City is spending
on the 22d, talked with him quite nage America will have to enter- ie Holidays on Big Elk.
a while at h3 hom. on business vene and 8top the blood ghed H. Allison has returned from
maters and in regard to his About the flrst tbe Captain wlu Summit to spend Christmas with
health He seemed to be dis- return agaln t0 southern partihls famy
pondent, at 9 P. M., Mr Bodine of Mexic0. ne says that is a I Wm- Mulkey and Clarence
came in. brough: his mail, stayed wonderful countrv The Mexi- ;Bateman went to Toledo on
t T. 3 aud Wf,n wT.ay- 'cai as a rule is cruel and ignor
Mr .Limbocker wnn still sitting ant and led by eir educated
in his easy chair near the stand ruen '
table where he had sat bo many , , M . Abbev of thp AbbpV Ho-
fetaVthoTSjftlTla??-" It0 be ab8ent 8CVeral Week8' .
Europe. He thought the
war
waB needless. He hoped it
would soon end and the effusion
blood and snCcrlng stopped.
At 8 o'clock .V M. the 23d. Mr,
Sheffield wrnt over again to the
. ..... , ,
tinilia tn null ;i lire, arn n a an w
rr : . -. - ;
air. umbocktr lyUig in bed and
breathing rather heavily but
thought he was only sleeping. Salem'' 1
An hour later he went back to Mr. and Mrs w c Wcber had
the house again and to the bed a8 dlnner gue8t8 Christmas, Mr.
xroom but found he could no and Mra. Guy Lewis and son,
wake him aid was called and Francis,, Mr. and Mrs Lloyd
Doctors Bell and Carter tried to Parkt and 80 Alton p
arouse him but could not and a Byrn8i Mr and Mr8 L;'M c
A ?ffVCr n00a h" VitSei &Vyi mons. Walt- Wolfersperger and
On the bureau near the head of Gus Nelson
the bed sat a small vial contain-; Mrs IIeser Coovert returned
Ing one tablet of morphine, one from Toledo Saturday .
fourth grain and the evidence Mr and Mr8 j u t
jhowded the vial had about 20 ed home from Portland where
tablets in it so it appears he they have been the past three
must have taken an over dose or months 1
morphine and lying there all, A. w! Weber left Sunday for
night without any help ho co.Ud ; MIelock. Wash., to spend Xmas
not be revived in the morning. wkh h!g wJfe w'ho h ' b
The next morning on the stand- ;ltlng her mother
.table was found a letter he had) . Mlfl3 Neta Phe, la home f
wrote complaining of harsh the Christmas vacation' from
.SSSM hirt when, she is attending
ir j ;r"v.':r.-
his advanced age it was bettor
to take a long sleep, which he
via. t
Verdict of the Coroner's Jury
We the Jury empaneled to in
quire into the cause of the death
ff A. H.Llmbockei find de
ceased came to his death by i
taking an overdose of morphine
vlth suicidal Intent. Signed:
B. H. Armitage, foreman, P.
Luscombe, d. A. CoiTleld, M.
Hutch, F. B. Sheffield, R. L. Cole
man, F. M. Carter, Coroner.
- The grand ball given by the
Women of Woodcraft, at the
Rod and Gun Club Hall Christ
mas night was well patronized
and a great Buccess. The hall
was decorated beautifully with
Ivy, mlseltoe, potted flowers and
bunting. . In the center of the
room was a ChrlBtmas tree also
beautifully decorated and bril
liantly lighted with two or three
dozen electric lights. The Bain
orchestra of Yaqulna furnished
the music and it was unusually
Rood. A large delegation at
tended the dance from Yaqulna.
The supper was up to the stand
ard, a hundred plates were set
- ; i ; ...
and all seemed to enjoy the de-"
licious viands. Dancing is a
pleasant, healthful enjoyment
Lwhen properly conducted.. No
ruae action or. improper conduct -, i,ne traraq nas peen so neavy
should be allowed a dances any ion 'the stage line, recently that
more than at other places. ,.' ' ;Mr. Allen had to employ an ex
' The Holidays .are passing' off tra team to come as far .as Peak
very pleasantly." The Churches Ppstofflce. '
were beautifully decorated, and j Leslie Crawford was hit by a
Splendid ' services were held at stick of wood while working
all of them. At the Presbyter- with a' wood saw, which put his
lan Church twenty five trained head quite severely. .
voices sane in the choir. The I Fred Shaw has returned home
ONA
Happy New Year!
.Tpla Thrtmnonn nf VonmA ia
viaiMncr m oh m- iTrtv.
, -. ..... . . w,,v. .uxo. llVUUglCCU.
f . m . . . -
j. o. unman, wire ana cmid-
ren are spending the Holidays
wlth Mr. ohmaru narinta'tir
school
Mrs. Fay C. Wolfesnerser and
son, Alan,-returned from Port
land on Sunday to her home at
the Common's ranch.
Mr. and Mrs. Parks entertain
ed Christmas night with cards.
Reynolds Ohmart. 'Mr. and
Mrs. H. Woods and children en
joyed Christmas dinner with Mr.
and Mrs. A. H. Phelps, Clifford
Phelps, Neta PhelpB, Fay Wolf
ersperger and Lloyd Commons
attended the Christmas dance
at Waldport. '
Mr. and Mrs. Phelps and
daughters Neta and Helen had
dinner at the Commons' home
Monday.
HARLAN
John Abbey was on the Creek
last week buying cattle for the
Corvallls market.
T. Thomason sent out three
hogB last week by the mall car
rier which he had sold to Mr.
Van Lee of Philomath.
. Misses Peggy Thomason,
Lleta Martin, and Esther Ka
wetzky have returned from Cor
vallls to spend their Holidays at
home.
I - -: ' -
Clifford McDonald and Huron
Briggs have returned from Sum-
jPilt; where they have been en
gaged by the railroad company.
to spend the Holidays,
1 G. O. Adams was .' a recent
Portland visitor,
1 Mr. Pool bad the misfortune
to have a horse badly cut on the
wire. N
I Christmas was celebrated in
all the school districts adjacent
jto Harlan in which. there is a
winter term of shcool. In he
Black district, the Christmas
tree and exercises were held on
Christmas day.
LITTLE ELK
Wishing the Leader and all
its readers a Merry Xmas and a
prosperous New Year. It has
been Bald that a white ; Xmas
means wealth and happiness all
through the comingTyear so look
but for Lincoln county, things
'are eoine to- moVe this coming
" O
Ma, .
' Vl"'
Kenneth Loudon is spending
the holidays with his parents
he attending school at Hubbard
this school year. '
Leland Wakefield is Visiting
rnenas at Kernville this week.
Mr. Colby made a trin to Ed
dyville Christmas day for a load
of supplies. George says there
is plenty or mud.
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Loudon
spent Xmas with Mrs. Loudon's
parents on the upper Yaqulna,
Miss niana Miller, our
"School Marm" dismissed school
Friday the 22, for a two weeks
vacation.
Bert Willoughby has been on
the sick list for the past week
but is much improved at this
time.
The following Is a list of
things that may be of interest
to some of the readers 'of the
Leader, that has happened on
Little Elk in past eight years:
There have been 25 marriages
is Dirtns 7 deaths and
separations, all of the above
came to pass within a territory
of 7 miles long and one mile
wide. t
I he average standing of
school district number six for
three months, Mert'Cruni, 8(5
percent; Ward Crum. 84 percent
Lewis Crum, 89 percent; Alden
Perry, 80 percent; Benlamin
Perry, 85; Oliver Colby, 92; Lion
el Colby 93; James Perrv 96;
Walter Cline, 80; Curtis Cooley
89; Dewey Standard. 90: Francis
Cline, 9G; Oertrude Standard. 9:j;
tiernlce Colby, 94; Ruth Coolev,
93; Vera Cooley, 94. Honor
Roll for three months: Lamont
Colby, Oliver Colby, Bernlce Col
by, Ruth Cooley, Vera Cooley,
Lionel Colby, Francis Cline, Ger
trude Standard.
ORTpN
Hurrah! for the snow! We are
glad to see it again, it is pretty
cold but I guess It wont freeze
anyone. It's not bad for Decem-
iber.
J , James Bhole the Upper Farm
school teacher went tb Falls
City last Friday to spend Xmas
with bis parents. '
Ned Evans is on the sick list
this week.
, The dance at the Upper Farm
school house on the 25th was
fine but there wasn't a very
large crowd. . ,
' ;Mr. and Mrs. Joe Bryant made
a Visit at Wm. Porters ranch
Monday, staying over for the
dapce. 1
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. McGuire
got up an Xmas dinner for Mr.
and Mrs. John Isaacson and Mr.
and Mrs. Blacketer and family,
all having a fine time.
E. T. Raddant of Orton went
to Portland this morning.
Victor Nlemi was on Upper
Farm today to get his sheep. He
sold them to Mr. Isaacson.
The Upper Farm girls are go
lngto give a leap year dance on
Dec. Zbth.
John Issacson has been work
ing, on his house the last week. '
E. M. Fralzer the Orton post
master made a business trip to fl the 8cno1 house Fndav eVen
Siletz this week. j ing was a great success. About
Rsv. Searles hasn't bsen up to i,80 Yre r,rescntaml a basket
hold Church sen-ices the past;lunch was served after the pro-
1 cram anl TP. . .1.
two weeks. He must be sick.
EDDYVILLE
Our schools are closed for the
Holiday vacation until January
eighth.
Mrs. M. E. Weltin and son
Earl went to Portland last Sat-1
urday where they will spend
Xmas with relatives.
Misses Mildred and Wlnnifred
McBride and their brother Clare
are at nome for the Holidays.
Miss Mildred is teaching in Sa-
Iem, her brother and sister are
students at Corvallis.
Kenneth Loudon came in ; will visit his son Burt,
from Woodburn Saturday night' Born to Mr. and Mrs. B. Tul
to Bpend Xmas with his parents, lock, December 20th, 1916, a 12
. W. F. Wakefield and family are pound boy, mother and baby
moving Into their new home.-.- jra getting aloog nicely
B. Willoughby has been quite ' John Coovert and Mr. Ilolm
ill but we are pleased to learn, STeen of Ona were In Bayview
he is improving. j One day last week.
Mr. and Mrs. R. V. Loudon I f . Walter Weber of Ona brought
spent Xmas with the latter's par- over a load of household goods
ent8, Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Aldrich. ; for the Cook brothers who are
Mr. and Mrs. Peterson and moving to Waldport for the win
family were guests at the Albert- er. '
sen home Christmas day. Mrs. Frank Huntsucker is on
' Mrs. Mable Girdler has been the sick list at this writing,
quite ill, but is much better at : Mr. Sheperd 1b busy getting
present. lumber on the ground to build
Elmer Lehn is spending his his new house On the tfnrt rr
Holidays at Eddyville.
, H. O. Boynton took his bride
to her new home last week. We
wish them much happiness and
prosperity.
A good number of faithful
Grangers bracd the Eevere
weather last Saturday and held
a very pleasant meeting. Re-
viewing the past year's work,
much satisfaction seemed maul-
feBt. A comfortable High
school room had been finished ton Grant were gathering in the"
in the lower part of the hall, a wanderers from their herd
good payment made on the hall Mr. Poole was teaming' for
debt, and a class or candidates Geo. Tubbs of Fall Creek Mon
ready ror initiation, all seemed day..
to speak well ror the Master, C. i Clarence Davis made a trip
II. Wakefield who was unana-'up this way while home rrom
mously re-elected, as were also Corvallis.
Sec. Roger Loudon and Tress, i Frank Mulvany made a trip to
Irven Magee. The remaining Blodgett teaming for Frank
officers elected were Overseerer Davis.
ChriBB Weidmer, Lecturer Mablo ! Frank Davis was here on
Girdlec Steward Brown Wake-; horse back Tuesday,
field, Jennie Loudon, Flora; Hel-j Gale Shane is working havoc
en Sparks. Pomona; Mary Boyn- among the predatory animals,
ton, Ceres; A. S. Lelend Wake- especially lynx cats, go to It for
field; L. A. S. Rena Loudon; the waste caused by their ilk is
Chap. Louisa Wakefield; Gate- grevious.
keeptfr Mamie Robbins. j It is said that Lafayette Sharp
Mr. Girdler reported a very of Racks Creek Is having his us
BtlBfat:tory meeting of the Po- ual good luck along these lines
mona Grange at Ona, and made this season. Considerable credit
no complaints about the slight is duo Lafavette for hia vlcllpnpp
inconveniences encountered on in protecting stock by externiln
the Journey home. atlng the foes or domestic ani-
We will be very glad to have nials.
the Pomona meet with us at i Mrs. Truman McGInness of
their next regular meeting in Racks Creek shot a wild cat to
March. The date for the same death the other day. Some Nhn
was set as the second Saturday rod?
in that month. Some are beginning to look
The lecturer's hour was very for Santa Clans and as near aa I
pleasantly spent in a little' can tell the men are expecting
Christmas festivity with an im- plpes and the women, diamond
promptu program in which each trinkets. Hope Old Nick doesn't
one present took part. miss ills rooting on that dnndy
'new foot log with its castles in
0 'the air hand rail.
CHITWOOD
Edgar Johnson and Lloyd Cor
dell left for Toledo Monday even
ing to attend the Christmas
dance.
""Russell and Mary Henry came
down from the Jungles Friday
returning Saturday.' '
John Adams left for Lob An
geles, California, a few days ago
for a visit with some friends at
that place.
A car load of potatoes were
shipped from here Saturday to
a point In California.
BAYVIEW
Happy New Year to All.
Not just rain but snow, sleet
and rain and cold weather a
plenty.
Johnnie Hanson who has been
in Portland for the past two
months, arrived In Friday of last
week to visit with his father and
mother, Mr. and Mrs. Ole Han
son of this place.
Oscar Oakland and Dexter
Twombly are spending the Holi
days with relatives and friends
at this place
The program which was given
an, a.iu lieu, uvt'ljruuu I e-
ports a good time.
Our school teacher left Satur
day morning for her home in
Portland where she will spend
two weeks with home folks
! Mrs. Hart and little son of
'Toledo came In Saturday night
of last week enroute to Waldport
where Mrs. Hart will vi3lt her
sister, Mrs. Davis. The stayed
.over night at F. Huntsuckers.
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Shnonson
of South Beaver spent Xmas day
I witn nome roiks at thl3 place.
j G. B. Ryan of South Beaver
passed through our burg Sunday
, on his way to Linville where he
land which he recently purchas-
ed of E. S. Oakland.
I o
! nrn
FIEGLES CREEK
I Geo. Darting made a return
visit of short duration
: R. E. Darting and sons were
driving out stock lately
! During the recent snow which
is still In evidence, Leonard
Grant. Fmnfc Aiiian n,i uo
' Mr. Emery (game warden)
paid us a visit Thursday staying
the night at Mr. Shanes. He
came In to inspect tho interests
or the benver that sojourn at
Klickitat Lake.
Frank Mulyany and family
spent Xmas at Mr. and Mrs. F.
Davis' taking in the Xmas do
ings at Blapks school also.
Needless to Bay they enjoyed
mixing wlt the old crowd again,
T.'J. Buford went to
Polk
county for hia Holidays.
STANTON SCHOOL
GIVES PROGRAM
The following program was
given at the Stanton school last
week, Miss Clara Larson
teacher.
Song, Myrtle Nelson, John
Rowe, Frank Bradbury; recita
tion, Jessie - Boone; recitation,
Alice Murray; violin solo, John
Rowe; reading, Don Buckles;
dramatization of Scrooges'
Christmas by Charles Dickens;
solo, Vligil Rowe; recitation,
Esther Taylor; recitation, Lucy
Murray; song, Myrtle Nelson,
Frank Bradbury, John Rowe;
recitation, Mary Will.
MARRIED
Mr. Elmer Horning and Miss
Maude Miller were united in
marriage last Sunday afternoon
at the Presbyterian Church at
Newport, the Rev. Pratt olflciat
ing. Mynia Miller and Mi?3 Ma
bel Booth of this city being the
only ones present at the cere
mony. Mr. Horning Is the youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. T. II. Horn
ing, of Otter Rock, and has lived
her in Toledo most of his life.
He is an honest and energetic
young man, and at present is in
terested with his brother, Fred,
in the transfer business in this
city.
Miss Miller is the eldest
daughter of County Judge and
Mrs. R. R. Miller and has resid
ed here in Toledo the past five
years. "She Is a graduate br tht
Toledo High .Schools or the class
of '15, and is an accomplished
and charming young lady.
Immediately after the .. cere
mony the happy pouple left on
a honeymoon trip to Otter Rock.
They will take up their residence
In the F. N.. Hayden cottage on
First Street, and will be at home
to their many friends the early
part of next week.
The Leader extends congrat
ulations and best wishes.
GRAND BALL
NEW YEAR'S NIGHT
Next Monday evening, Janu
ary 1st, 1917, there will be a
grand ball given at the I. O. O. F.
Ilall In this city. llaln'B Orches
tra or Yaqulna, assisted by Miss
Elma Waugh or this city will
furnish the music. Supper will
be served at the Chamber's res
taurant at Midnight, for the sum
or 35c. per plate. AH night
dance tickets $1.00. Come out
and have a good time.
TWO NEW BOATS
AT HANSON SHIPYARDS
Chris Hanson informed -us
Saturday that he had orders
from a Portland firm ror the
building or two new fishing
schooners, and that he would
build them providing that ho
could secure the necessary lum
ber, lie has since made ar
rangements to secure the lum
ber at Silctz of Hawkins Bros,
and Billy Graham will haul It
over.
The logs for the lumber will
be logged on the Lee Wade place
near the Agency, Mr Wade sup
ervising the logging himself. He
went over Wednesday to com
mence work..
Mr. Hanson says he could get
plenty or boats to build ir it was
not so hard to secure lumber.
FOOTBALL SUNDAY
The Toledo and Siletz elevens"
will meet on tho local grldirou
next Sunday afternoon to play
ofT the tie of last Sunday. Tole
do la out after the county cham
pionship and will play for all
they are worth. Came starts at
2:30. Come out and see a fast
game.
I
