)
gg J5rtr.hr
s.:fe
The Intemor Journal
zw
Established 1860.57th Year.-No. 102.
Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Friday, December, 29, J 9! 6.
Tuesdays and Fridays
FEARFUL AFFAIR
AT HARRIS' CREEK
One Man Killed And Others Wounded
In Shooting Affray In Crowded
Schoolhouse
Only for the courage and extreme
presence of mind displayed by Miss
Jttinelle Pruitt, teacher of the Har-
Creek school, west of Milledge
Saved By Little Sister
Lida Belle Denham Faints And Falls
Against Open Grate
Owsley's Hat In Ring
Prominent Lawyer Announces For
County Attorney
Revenue Man in Raid
Lida Belle Denham, nine-year-old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Den
ham was severely burned on her
nuiii, ciicerw. eur iiiiu arm on i.nrisr-1 -""-" wuuiy, ouuictu lo Liie iicLinn
mas night about 11 o'clock. Had it of tne Democratic primary in Aug-
snce of mind of 'usc iyf ' -Judge uwsley needs no in-
The Interior Journal is authorized
todav to announcR J. S nralou QC
a candidate for Cnnntv Attnmow nf
Lincoln county, subject to the action
not been for the presence
xis
ville and in this county, a wholesale
massacre of the school children and
thpir fripnHs onrl nnfrnnc Wn fnor hot grate. The little girl :
fWQ fn. ti, rujco ,. wJher .mo.theV a,d at the same time,
her little seven-year-old sister, Flor
ence, tne little girl might have been
terrible injured. While her parents
were out of the room, she became sick
at her stomach and fainted and fell
into the fire place and against the
icreamed for
ed there for the Christmas tree last
Saturday night would undoubtedly
have taken place. When trouble arose
between Wm Benedict, Tom Thornton,
Steve Benedict and George Thornton,
which the teacher saw would result in
shooting, she yelled to the little ones
to drop to the floor and lie still. Sev
enteen pistol shots were fired, in the
fusillade which followed and when
the smoke cleared away Wm. Benedict
was dead, his three-year-old son was
shot through a leg, Mike Gaddis was
shot in a leg and George Thornton,
who fired the shot that killed Bene
dict was wounded in one hip, and a
bullet had passed through his coat
and shirt. The Christmas Tree cele
bration, which had been just half con-
cllldpd. VT1S rvillpd nff 'fnr thp PVPnintr
as everyone left" the building as quick
ly as possible. Men who went to the
schoolhouse the next morning said,
that from the blood from the wound
ed, on the floor, the building looked
like it had been used for a hog kill
ing. Thornton was placed under ar
rest by officers who soon came,
but on account of his wounded condi
tion, was not lodged in jail. Sam Helm
-was appointed a special guard to have
charge of him until his examining
trial, which will be held here Thurs
day morning. Attorney T. J. Hill, Jr.,
of this city, has been engaged to de
fend him.
Conflicting stories are told by
j.4. vkj v4. 1111, jjci vi-mpuw tio vu lll&l
cause of the trouble. Bad blood had!
existed between one 01 the benedicts
and one of the Thorntons for about
two years, it is said, and this is believ-
rl tn hp .if thp hnftnin nfthp trmi.
ble which was started in the crowded
caught hold of her sister and dragged
her away from the fire, which had not i tion- He issues merely a formal card
revived her from the fainting spell. I tn? democrats of Lincoln, in mak-
traduction to the democrats of Lincoln
county. He served as Commonwealth's
Attorney of this district and after
wards as County Judge and made a
splendid record in each position. He
has been a life-long democrat, alwaj
working and fighting for the party's
interests, and is in every way excep
tionally well Qualified for ttif. nnc.
t; u : 1 v , i-w-.-
Dr. O'Bannon wAs hurriedlv snmmnn
ed and dressed the injuries. He says
that on account of the prompt rescue
by the little girl, it is probable that
the burns will leave no scars.
K. P. BANQUET FRIDAY NIGHT
One of the delightful affairs of the
Christmas season will be the K. P.
banquet at the I. O. 0. F. hall Fri
day night, Dec. 29th. Prominent mem
bers of the order, including grand
lodge officers, will be here from all
this section of the state. A delightful
menu will be served. The members
will first meet at the lodge room at
7:30, where a welcome address will
be delivered bv Rowan Sanflp.v. Af
ter adjounrment to the banquet hall,
the following program will be observ
ed: Toastmaster Josenh Sevenncp
Invocation Rev. D. M. Walker.
First Course.
Address Hon. R. W. Keenon.
Address Hon. C. A. Hardin.
Second Course.
Address Hon. Harvey Helm.
Address Hon. R. H. Tomlinson.
Third Course.
Benediction Rev. M. D. Early.
Each Sir Knight is expected to
bring his lady with him.
WILCHER MILLER
The marriatre of Miss TlnlHp Wil
cher and Walter Miller was solemniz
ed in Danville Tuesday afternoon at
the home of Rev. C. H. Orppr hv f naf
nnnf1r.nin TU- U .?.! ; j.1.
schoolhouse. So much excitement was .daughter of Mrs. Eliza Wilcherff
intr his announcnmpnt n -fniiiro
To The Democrats of Lincoln County
I will appreciate your support for
the office of County Attorney prom
ising if elected to discharge my duties
faithfully.
Very truly,
J. S. OWSLEY.
Carson Out For Jailer
Well Known Democrat Issues Strong
-ara 10 Lincoln Voters
W. A. Carsnn nno nf V. v t-
known democrats of Lincoln counts;
autnonzes the Interior J6urnal today
to announce him n n mvwi ;,!.,- .?...
the Democratic nomination for Jailer
of Lincoln county. Having served a
term as assessor and made the race
for jailer in 1913 when he made a
wonderful t-ipp nni u " T 7 inese two stills were discover
rZ 4 liaCu!? r5A b:! "0S,ed Ut five '. miles north of Harlan,
caused by the affray that it is difficult
to gee at tne meat 01 tne matter.
Thp P.hrisfm'is pntprfaiinmnnf wnc
about over, and the distribution of
--"' - "" C . I "" runnel 01 cms county, iney re
presents from the tree was about to turned to this city after the ceremony
npfrm vnpn rho trniihlp hPfffin nf tliolo,l ...:ii i. ji - v ... . J
this city and is indeed a very charm
ing young lauy, while the groom is a
son of J. F. Miller, and is a promising
young iarmer 01 tnis county. They re-
"hpfrin vViPn thn trmiHlp ViPtmn t tTio
stove, which vas located about the
center of the little schoolhouse. John
Thornton, father of the wounded
man who is charged with, killing
Benedict, is a trustee of the school,
and had assisted the teacher in ar
xansrine: for the tree. He savs. ac
cording to his attorney, that Missjjrs
.rruitt requestea mm to De present
that evening and help her preserve
order. Accoi'ding to his statement, his
son, Tom Thornton, who was not con-
fcmri in fVip linnfinr in nniiwaw
whatever came to the schoolhouse un
der the influence 01 whisky, and an
and will make their home with his
parents, who reside on the W. P.
Grimes farm, where they receive the
best wishes of their many friends for
a life of much happiness.
MRS. SARA CORNN DEAD
Mrs. Sara Corrn. the rumhpr nf
D. T. Brummett. dipH at Via
home of her daughter this murning at
seven o'clock, after an illness of five
day of pneumonia. Deceased was 75
years old and had made ner home
here with her daughter since the
dpath nf Vipv nnclin1 omtnonl 4-l..-
ifluence of whisky, and an: mr v ""' """,;"' '"""'?
effort u-as made to get him to leave. !S: , TenVvm "aKe pIace at
itons claim that about this -"- "'"""-J-
The Thorntons claim that about this
time Wm. Benedict, who was slain,
we -4. tn fome of the children to whom
h1 ".r loaned his pistol to use with
blank cartridges in the school enter
tainment, and secured his gun. He is
alleged to have loaded it with ball
Lancaster
(By "Billy")
Messrs. G. B. Carrier, Chas. Doty,
Rice Ten-ill, Arthur Eldridge and Joe
Kavanaugh, who hold splendid nosi-
at home for
at the finish, he needs no introduction
to the democrats nf tVio nmi. rr
has always been found on the firing
line, and is well qualified in every
way for the place he asks of his par
ty. In making his announcement, he
issues the following card to the
voters :
To The Democrats of Lincoln County
I am a candidate for Jailer nf Lin
coln county, subject to the action of!
tne democratic Dartv. Having alw.iv
been a democrat and given freely of
my time and means to the party, I
do not think it necessary to go fur
ther into details along that line. It
will be remembered that I made the
race for jailer four yeai-s ago but
met with defeat. I hope and have rea
son to believe that I will bo success
ful this time. There is an old saying
that "The place to find a thing is
where you lost it," and having lost
last time I hope to find and fill the
office of Jailer next term. I greatly
appreciate the support that has been
given me in the past and ask that T
be again given your consideration in
the next primary. I know that I can
administer the affairs of the office of
Jailer with credit alike to mydelf an"d
party and here ask your aid 'in giving
me a chance to make you a Jailer
that you will have no reason to he
ashamed of. Aain thanking you and
trustiner that I mnv Ti.ivp vnnr cn.
port, I am very truly yours.
W. A. CARSON.
cartridges ana to nave staiteu witni """.""" "" ' p
5t toward Tom Thornton. Mike Gaddis, j jons in 1 Akron, 0., are a
o iii,, ),. m,o-v.f Vi;c Vion.i ! the holidavs.
-111? 11 - A-l Ji j- 1 t TTcfni' Tqwertn vl. ?n 1-1. IS
noiaing tne pistol, ana to nave en-! ,T . """"" " i atLuuiiig
deavored to take it away from him. At : college in Tennessee is home with his
this juncture, the Thorntons claim,
that Steve Benedict came up with a
knife and began to cut at Gaddis'
coat from behind, and threatened to
cut his throat if he did not release his
brothei, Wm. Benedict. When Bene-
1?rf crrf Inncp ho ic nllprprl tn hnvp
begun firing at George Thornton, who
parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Lawson
to spend Amas.
Willie B. West, Robinson Cook,
Harry Rainey, Edwin Walker, Chas.
Sanders and Bert Embrv, who are
honored students at M. M. I. arrived
home Friday night to spend their
-vmas vacation with their parents.
tfradley Kourne and John Holtz-
the Throntons sav. was not involved . Bradley Bourne and J
in the affair in any way up to that ,cIaw J T- U. at Lexington are at
time. However, he pulled a gun, after nonie for Amas.
Benedict began shooting at him, and Misses Edna Kavanaugh, who holds
returned the fire. Others evidently
n ltirifi'f-irrt i--kr!4-?n 4- T., ,1In...u 1
returned tne nre. uuiers eviuenuyi -.iw uaiLiuu ai inuianajjuiis,
aid some snooting also ior i Dunet ""u , ,x ,ulcie junnson ana n,una
boles have been counted in the little , Berkle, of Oxford College of Ohio,
school room. This account of the affair ae with their parents and friends for
is that given bv the Thorntons and the holidays
their friends. The I. J. was unable to 1 Monday being court day and Christ
find any of the Benedicts or their imas Day brought out a very small
friends in town who might give their J crowd, only a few cattle on the mar
side of the trouble. It is understood, I ket- A few mules and horses brought
however, that witnesses on both sides ' 00 prices. C. B. Brown sold five
will be produced when the examin- head of cattle for $21 a head to Wm.
ing trial is held before Judge Bailey Hiatt.
Wednesday. It is understood that I 0ne, of the prettiest Christmas
George Thornton, who fired the shotjtree ever held in Lancaster, was the
that killed Benedict claims that the one which the citizens and business
YOUNG MURPHY
Alexander Mlirnhv nf Pnnnmn inrl
Miss Osborne Dent Young, of Lan
caster, were quietlv married at the
suburban home of her grandparents,
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
in Lancaster on Christmns Tinv Vav
'F. M. Tinder officiating. Only members
01 tne immediate tamiJies were pres
ent. The bride is the eldest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Roe Young and
granddaughter of the late Hon. John
D. Young, who served two terms in
congress from the ninth district. She
has been living in Panama for more
than two vears. Mr. Murphy is the son
of Mrs. W. L. Murnhv and the late
W. L. Murphv, of Shelbv Citv. and a
rrandson of the late Col. W. H. Dud
'erar. Mr. Murphy was raised in
Stanford and is one of the most pop
ular young men who ever went away
from old Lincoln to carve fame and
fortune. He has been an engineer on
the Panama rnilrnnrl frv o nnmVm. -p
years and is one of Uncle Sam's most i
?
Uncle Sam's Officer fjinhirr Twn
'Shiners And Destroy Booze
Without having his clothes off for
four days and nights and without a
wink of sleep, save snatches on horse
uacir, deputy internal Revenue Col
lector Rowan Saufley returned to his
home here SatnrHsiv from tho YirA
moonshine raid he has been on in
Jtiamn county since Dec. 1st. On this
last raid, the biggest of the three,
nOtiOnlv Were two mountain mnnn.
shine distilleries destrnvpd. nnH n
large quantity of beer, but two
'shiners were cantured. An instnnf
later, and one of them would undoubt
edly; nave killed several of Uncle
Samfs officers who wpi-p on his iii
His name is Cal Nanier ami whn ho
government raiders came to his place
ue iiiu iu some nay in the barn. His
trusty rifle was thrust through the
stack, and he was "covering" the ap
proach to the loft when Deputy Col
lector Saufley and Boyd Kelley came
up on the side, before Napier caught
sight of them, stepped quickly on the
protruding barrel of the 'shiners'
Winchester, and then covered him
with' their revolvers. The other maker
of illicit whisky was named Jerry
Burgin, and he was captured with
much less trouble. His house was sur
rounded in the night time, and he was
captured without trouble. Napier had
his malt corn ready to brew right in
his house with him, and this the offi
cers aestroven ns win nc nhnut Azn
gallons of beer, ready to be made in
to moonsnme whisky, at each of the
plants operated bv the two 'shin pre
These two stills were discovered about
live . miles north of Harlan, in the
mountain fastnessps Tn fnr oil nvQ
of the raids in which the local reve
nue man has participated have been
in the most inaccessible mountains of
that, section of Kentucky; up and
down ravines, and gullies, which on
ly the surest-footed horse could safe
ly navigate. How the materials out of
which the mountain moonshiners
construct thier crude distilleries are
transported to the places where they
are operated was a mystery to the
revenue oincers. The stills are nffpn
hidden in thickets, and other natural
cover, and upon one of the raids up
on which the local officer was recently
engaged, its location was only dis
covered by smell of the new-made
whisky, which led the officers to it
finally after they had searched the
vicinity for hours. Over a thousand
gallons of beer, from which the whis
ky is distilled, has been destroyed
during these three raids. Two stills
and 400 gallons were destroyed in the
first raid; one still and about 350
gallons were destroyed on the second
raid and two stills and 450 gallons
were put out of business on this last
raid. On the two previous raids, the
'shinfBK.madfi a clp.in cptnwnv nf tho
appro6$rthe .federal officers. -
xire uuicers wno nave participated
on these raids, in addition to Deputy
Co-lector Rowan Saufley, of this city,
ajiy .General Deputy Collector U. G.
McFurland, of Glasgow; General Dep
Utv Stanton H. Tharn. of Rirhmnnrl'
Deputy U. S. Marshal Ed Garrett, of
Middlesboro; Judge John A Ward
county judge of Harlan county, and
county judge of Harlan county; Sher
iff Cawood, of Harlan county, and
Railroad Detective Boyd Kelly, of
Harlan.
Weatherford Resigns
As Carrier on Route No. 5 to Assist
Father in Sheriff's Office.
Frank Weatherford, for several
years carrier on Rural Route No. 5
out of Stanford, has resigned his
sition, in order to devote his time to
the sheriff's office, where he will
serve as an active deputy for the re
mainder of his father, Sheriff J. G.
Weatherford's term. Joe T. Embry,
Jr., is carrying the route, from here
to Hustonville, Moreland and back as
temporary carrier, at present, until
a civil service examination is held, it
is understood, and a new appoint
ment made. Mr. Weatherford had
the distinction of putting on the first
automobile route in Lincoln county,
and was always prompt and efficient
with "the service he gave those re
ceiving mail in his territory.
Delightful Affair
Coming To Opera House Under Aus
pices of Stanford Graded School
FATHER FINDS
MISSING BOY
Little Charley Reed Was Working As
Waiter In Lexington Hotel
Mother Happy Again
"M n tol ar1 onrl Tinrl
TiT-irifr if fi Viim This is nnHprsfnnfi fn
be Thornton's excuse for having the
gun in his pocket at the time. Just
what the real facts in the matter will
undoubtedly be brought out at the
examining trial. That grown men
should go armed to such an affair and
go to snooting in a room crowded
with little children and their mothers
and fathers, is almost inconceivable
in this day and time, and the citizens
generally of the whole community
will be a unit in demanding that the
whole affair be sifted to the bottom
and that the guilty parties whoever
they may be be punished to the limit
of the law.
The examining trial of Thornton
was called Wednesday with a host
of witnesses present. A full report
of the testimony will be given in the
next Tuesday's paper, as today's I.
J. is printed on Wednesday, just as
the trial begins.
Constipation Causes Bad Skin
A dull and pimply skin is due to a
sluggish bowel movement. Correct
this condition and clear your com
plexion 'with Dr. lung's New Life
Pills. This mild laxative taken at bed
time will assure you a full, free, non
griping movement in the morning.
Drive out the dull, listless feeling re
sulting from overloaded intestines
and sluggish liver. Get a bottle to
day. At all Druggists, 25c.
dred colored electric lip-Tits with 51 Inf.
of bells were placed on the tree, and
at least 1,000 children were made
happy because Santa Claus was here
with all the candies and good things
for them. A brass band furnished the
music and the entire town was turned
into a joy of merriment, while a large
choir together with all the children
sang the Xmas hymns.
Heard About Town
At the home of her brother, Hon.
C. C. Bagby in Danville last week.
Miss Mary Bagby was united in mar
riage to P.ev. Waller Blain, Sunday
School Missionary in the Southern
Presbyterian church, now located at
Gonzales, Texas.
Mr. J. S. Murphy, of the West End,
informs the I. J. that it is not general
ly known that the stock law recently
voted in the Hustonville magisterial
district went in to effect December
7th, and that quite a number of citi
zens of the West End hope that it will
be rigidly observed.
Bev. Rout, Jr., left Saturday for
Louisville, to join his wife and child.
Mr. Rout plans to go into the con
tracting business again in the Falls
City, having resigned his position as
collector for the Stanford Wntor .
., n -w "
i-iignt & ice Company.
I efficient and nnnnlnr pmnlnvan n Via
1 r 1 ri ---!------ ..,.7 w.. ,
vanai ,one. receiving a large salary
and being right at the top of his pro
fession. He has a great many warm
friends back home, who have watched
his career with much interest and
now are glad to extend congratula
tions and all good wishes upon his
winning such a bonnie bride.
MATHENY BRIGHT
A quiet, yet beautiful home wed
ding was solemnized Tuesday after
noon, December 26th, at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Will Matheny, south of
town, when their dauhgter, Miss Eliz
abeth Matheny became the bride of
nomas r. urignt. Unly immediate
relatives were present at the cere
mony, which was said by Rev. C. H.
Greer, presiding elder, and former
nastor of the bride's church here. The
bridal couple went to Louisville for
a short bridal trip, after which thev
will make their home here. Quite a bit
of romance attaches to the marriage
of this very popular young couple,
the sister of the bride having married
the brother of the groom over a year
ago. The new Mrs. Bright is a very
attractive and a accomnlisV.pd vnnno-
Woman, talented and cultured. She has
neen teaching in the Stanford Grade
and High School during the past term
and is universally beloved. The groom
is the older son of Mr. and Mrs. W.
M. Bright, and is a splendid young
man in every way. a nroeressive
voung farmer, of fine character and
high ideals. Both have a legion of
friends who extend heartiest congrat
ulations and good wishes.
News of the Churches
Rev. J. G. Livingston will preach at
Crab Orchard next Sunday morning
at 11 o'clock.
Thprp wp7v an orii;;nricfn tVm iwf
TTic mamr Tn- 01.J.1: - j. .
f-mj. i,-M -.-ni Kl .""f TCi""V v,ubuan cnurcn nunng tne
..wo iiC1. mu vviou mm every sue- revival services which have just cjos
cess. e(j.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
To the officers and members of the
Crab Orchard Lodge No. 108 I. 0. O.
F., we your committee appointed on
resolutions beg leave to report as viz:
Whereas death has invaded our
ranks and taken from our councils
and lodge our oldest member, Brother
Past Grand John Edmiston, who was
in his 91st year, and 64 years an Odd
Fellow, he last of the charter mem
bers are now gone:
Resolved First: That in his death
this lodge has sustained an irre
parable loss. He had long been the
main prop, and pillar of the lodge,
ever ready to lend a helping hand to
The Gladys Beulah Powers Com-
Uanv Of New York is tn nnnpnr of f no
opera house of Stanford on the even
ening of January 17, 1917 under the
auspices of the Graded School. Miss
rowers herself is one of the best
known and most versatile of enter
tainers, and the announcement of her
appearance should nssnrp n lnt-o-o
crowd at the entertainment in Stan-
iord. lhe program for the evening
is replete with novelties, and is as
well unique in its consistent ar
rangement and well balanced inter
est, it consists lirst of a Japanese
operetta, charmingly costumed with
imported Japanese robes. On a thread
of romance are strung gems of orien
tal iancy to wnich Miss Powers adds
fresh lustre by her sparkling vivacity.
In selections from John Luther Long
and other famous writers of Japan,
all the poetic fragrance of rho land of
the cherry blossoms has been gather
ed together, and the art and' charm
of the young art:st are given wide
range.
The second nart nf thp nrno-v-im
consists of two divisions aptly called
'At Home and Abroad." The former
begins with a monologue of a quaintlv
garbed old fashioned child, inter
spersed with readings from the new
est and most popular of chiU'ien's
books, "The Gentlest Giant'' bv An
na Bird Stewart. Following tlrs. Miss
Powers gives several numbers, full
of laughs, illustrating the modern
girl, and amusing American types, in
attractive modern dress. The section
"Abroad" consists of songs and stor
ies of the several different peoples,
Dutch, Scotch, etc., all accurately
costumed and embodying the humor
and fun as well as the national char
acteristics of the "ountry represented.
The student jf folk lore will enjoy
her performance no less than the
seeker. 102-1
a brother in distress and add his coun
cil and advice to the members in the
practice of F. L. & T.
Resolved Second: That this com
munity has lost one of its most useful
and upright citizens. And during his
long and useful life, many of his best
deeds of kindness and charity were
kept to himself.
Resolved Third: That the mem
bers of this lodge wear the usual
badge of mourning for the space of
30 days.
Resolved Fourth: That the lodge
extend to the family their deepest
sympathy and condolence and that a
copy of these resolutions be spread
upon the minute book of the lodge;
and same be published in the Interior
Journal and Odd Fellow official organ
the Truth.
R. H. BRONAUGH,
GEO. B. LYNE,
M. M. PERKINS, Committee.
The foregoing report was unani
mously adopted.
A GODLY MAN GOES TO REWARD
James M. Walter, a member of a
well known Lincoln and Garrard
family, passed away at his home
here Friday night, Dec. 22. after a
long period of invalidism. Mr Wnlfo.-
was 75 years of age and vas the eld
est oi a large tamily. He was a na
tive of Garrard, but had made his
home in Lincoln for n nnmW f
years. Early in life he became a mem-
Der ot tne Methodist church, and
throughout his long life, lived close
to the teachings of his T.m-d. Hp wnc
active in Sunday School, and other
church activities, and was never hap
pier than when doing 'something for
tne Detterment ot his fellowman. Mr.
Walter never married. He is survived
by the following brothers and sisters,
Sam M. Walter, of Norman, Okla., Dr.
B. F. Walter, of Lancaster, K. C.
Walter, of Hubble, G. A. Walter, of
King's Mountain, Jesse and Wallace
Walter, of this city, Mrs. W. T. Wil
liams, of Lexington and Miss Mary
Walter, of this city. Funeral services
were conducted Sunday afternoon at
the Methodist church by the pastor,
Rev. W. D. Welburn, assisted by Rev.
W. S. Grinstead, followed by the in
terment in Buffalo Springs cemetery.
GEORGE MENEFEE IN WRECK
News has been received by his par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. John N. Menefee,
nere that their youngest son, George
G. Menefee. who now has his hpiwl.
( quarters at Birmingham, Ala., was in
a serious wrecK on a railroad in Ala
bama early this week. The car in
which he vwas riding was derailed,
and turned over and when Mr. Mene
fee came to himself he was standing
on his head. One man was killed in
the wreck, and Mr. Menefee regards
it as extremely lucky that he was not
killed and suffered nothing more seri
ous than a severe shaking up.
STOP THAT COUGH
A hacking cough weakens
the
whole system, drains your energy and
gets worse if neglected; your throat
is raw, your cnest acnes ana you leei
sore all over. Relive that cold at" once
with Dr. King's New Discovery. The
soothing pine balsams heal the irrated
membranes, and the antiseptic and
laxative qualities kill the germs and
break up your cold. Don't let a cold
linger. Get Dr. King's New Discovery
today at your druggist, 50c.
After two disastrous fires in Ash
land Fire Chief H. H. Davenport was
dismissed.
SPRINKLES MESSER
Henry Messer, of Crab Orchard,
and Miss Beulah Sprinkles, of the
Hanging Fork section, drove to Dan
ville on Christmas Eve and were unit
ed in marriage. Mrs. Messer is a
danp-hter of Mr. and Mrs. W. M
Sprinkles, and accomplished and at
tractive ana mr. messer is tne oiaest
son. of Mr. and Mrs. .Tamps H. Mps.
ser. of Crab Orchard, and a a nrnmi.
nent farmer, in the East End. They
have the best wishes of a host of rela
tives and friends for a happy union.
W. C. T. U. PLAY MADE $114
The W. C. T. II. nlav nrpspnfpd nf
the onera house Mondav nijht. wns a
splendid success in every way. Under
tne training ot miss .Esther Uurch
the local actors and actresses execut
ed their narts in nlefisinp sfvlp A
fine audience -was present, the receipt
amounting to $114.
Santa Claus was certainly good to
Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Reed, six miles
west of Stanford, on the Danville
pike.
On Christmas Eve Mr. Reed found
in Lexington their 14-year-old son,
Charles Morgan Reed, who has been
missing for over a month. He took the
lad back to his mother, Sunday night,
and this Christmas was one of the
happiest that this mother whose
heart had been almost breaking with
grief over the disappearance of her
little son has ever known.
Mr. Reed came to town Monday
afternoon and was pnnrrnfiilnfo-i n
all sides for finding the boy. The story
v,i v,,c iiiuc piuulfUl 1SS 5UUI1 tOlll. llKe
many another boy, who doesn't real
ize just now cold and barren the wide
world is until he goes up against it,
young Reed thought it would be fine
to run away and be free.
He admits that he was anxious to get
away from parental influence and dis
cipline for a little while. He accom
plished his purpose almost at the cost
of his mother's life, however, He had
his fling, and Mr. Reed says that
the lad is just as glad to be back
home as his parents are to have him
there again, safely in the family fold.
It was due to the detective work
that the father himself did, more than
anvthinc else that thp philfl rnc
found. Mr. Reed went to DanvilTp
Sunday morning, with the intention
of goiner to Lexincton to mnl-P nor.
sonal search. The T.pvinonn nni.v
and detectives had been handling the
case ior several weeks, and had se
cured no results. Ynnner "Rno,l cmrc
that a number of policemen in Lexing
ton asked him if he was not "Charley
Reed, of near Danville," but he was"
always able to persuade them that
he was some one else. He told most of
them he says that his name was
"Charley Parker," and that he was
an orphan boy from Tennessee.
Strange to say, a policeman sought to
identify him as the missing bov Sun
day morning. Young Reed, as usual
denied his identity, whereupon the
policeman remarked to him, that he
certainly did wish he could find that
missing Reed boy for his mother was
sick and about to die of a broken
heart because of his disappearance.
Young Reed says this was the first
he had heard of thp pftWf hi's r.nn;n
away from home had had upon his
mother. He told his father that after
the cop had told him that, he ha
determined to return home Christ
mas morning voluntarily, and would
have gone, had not his father appear
ed on the scene and taken him back
the eve before.
It was by the veriest good luck
that the father found the boy in Lex
inerton. He sr.enr. nil tlnv SnnHmr t
the search of that city.
ne saysthat the police were excep
tionallv kind and ennrfpnns fn n?
They did everything in their power
to aid him in his search. It appeared
hopeless, however. Nn frarP nnulrl n
with the assistance of the police de
partment, discover of the missing
boy. It had been simply a premoni-
uon mat nau taKen Mr. Keed to Lex
ington, in the first place. When ev
ening came on he took a car to the
Southern depot to catch a train for
Danville. His heart was heavy. He
had no news to lighten the woe of
the broken-hearted mother back
home. The train was late. Reed found
he had some time on his hands. He
had noticed the big tobacco ware
houses out in the South Broadway
section, as he came in. He saw them
again while waiting at the depot, and
determined to investigate them. Luck
was with him. Some one told him at
one of the warehouses, that a boy
answering the description of his son,
had worked there for several days a
short time before that. Another man
directed him to a boy who could prob
ably tell him where this boy who
answered his son's description could
be found. This boy knew something
of him, but told of another boy who
could tell where he was boarding. By
this time, Mr. Reed believed he had a
sure trail. He hired a taxi cab and
lost no time. E. F. Stansbury, of 210
East Main, who happened to be near
iook an interest in the father's case,
and went with him. The boys finally
took hm to a boarding house conduct
ed by a man named Baker. Mr. Reed
who is unfamiliar with Lexington
streets, does not know where it is lo
cated but left the directing to his two
boy guides. Mr. Baker said that a boy
anSWerinc the dpsprinfinn TfaaA rw,.
was boarding with him; was down
"""" im jm uwii son. DUt wouirt
soon be in. Mr. Rppd wt iinm. o,i
waited. When thp vniintrctai- nomn ?
shortly afterward, the first person he
saw was nis iatner. ne seemed just
as glad to see his father as the latter
was to see him, and instantly got
ready to return home, after his five
weeks' absence.
"I just wanted to go out and see
the world for myself, a little while,"
said young Reed. "Of course I had no
idea how mother would look at it. It
was sorter a wild rmnsp rhnco wuv.
me, and I am glad to be back home."
ne youngster was working as
waiter in a hotel down town, and
making $8 a week.
BABY'S FEARFUL DEATH
The Monticello Outlook said last
week: "Woodrow Brown, the three-
vear-old son of Mr. and Mrs Wvaff
RlftTYl foil 1t? r Vnln ? lin .!..-
uxumi icu iiivu ti ntvuc ui nut wilier "wwuno. viei i
last lhursday evening and lived onl ' bottle today. Pleasant to take. At all
Neglected Colds Grow Worse
A cough that racks and irritates
the throat may lead to a serious
chronic cough, if neglected. The heal
ing pine balsams in Dr. Bell's Pine
Honey Nature's own remedy
will soothe and relieve the irritation,
breathing will be easier, and the anti
septic properties will kill the germ
which retarded healing. Have it
handy for croup, sore throat and
enronic bronchial affectinns flof ..
a few hours.
Druggists, 25c.
