I THE LABEL SHOWS g 7 HI
h. l HU ,lm7 l" wh,ph ""nptlon has been 111; I If II L r&3&lffiJ&A2s ,Oft II II II II HH
$ alhiuujrv paid tuThe Sun. If the label show JNi r . I mYSiSTTU KBZkl) II y ll II II HH
mjU P W w Hun will appreciate u remittance. Un- P" " 'iv vj C-' ' HHH
W der the Mtnl 1-vw n sulieerlptlon to a I' O 1, I T I C A I, Ij Y IlIU'l'lllilCAS HBiLbssi
weekly newspaper cannot run lunger ..... . ..... . . nMissassssssi
than it ) ear without pn)lng up Con- nntcred no Second-CIsM Matter, Juno 4, 191S. at the PontoMce at I'rltc Utah. Under the Act ot March 3. 17. Kassssssssss!
""' t"0 ""' VOLUME 2; NUM11EK .11 EVERY FRIDAY DECEMBER 29, 1916 IflH
TWO MORE MAKING j
CONTEST IN COURT
Carlos Gunderson and II. C. Smith Begin
Proceedings Against A. Bryner
and E. S. Horsley.
IRREGULARITIES GHARGED IN MOST PRECINCTS
Through Atlurnc) U A Mcde. two
.ecllon contest were filed In dlslrl. t
uurt nl t'rlco hint Hnlurdu) afternoon,
ne Mug that of Carl Ounderson
gainst Albert Itrjnrr. anil tin other
ll. C Hmllh ngalnst Krncsl H llnndey
Oundorson wn the republican nom
inee fur the four-year county commls
Monsmhlp, while Hmlth wn the dtn
iKTAtlc candidate for county lerk.
The returns n eanvnmH'd showed that
Mryner hail it plurality of forty-live
ml Horsle) nineteen vote. The eon
itd election on the other eommU
leiiershlp of Hontiwhl vn. Ostium! In
t rqme up for hearing on the Uh of
J inuary. next, before Judge (Inurge
ttrbttensen. hiiiI It In antklixited
iIhhm two will tlosel) follow.
In the romplarnl of (Itindersnn, filed
illi the count) clerk, Irregularliln
ere complained of In nlmiwt every
preolmt of the count). One portion
"f the eomplnlul . "That the con
J.dtant I Informed and believe that
recount of the ballot In the pre.
lucid of Winter Quarter, ('nut In
date. Helper. Price. WelllnKton, Hun
otatde Clear Creek. Kelill worth, llla
watha Htnrr and ut Hlandardvlll.
minting onl such ballot it are le
nail) cnt for him and counting mil)
ueh ballot an were legally flint for
Iho collleMec. will show the tontftst
unt to be law full) elected to the office
f count) eoiuuiiwtloiier. for the term
vommendng January I. 1917. I a
plurality of ten vole"
The etateuient of II C Hmllh ruim
ionic the Mine lluea mm thai of (Inn
draon Ilia ronU-ntlou I that If u
letttunt In made It will In hImihii that
l (Hmllh) Men eleetetl b a iur.illly
ir more than tnntnlne otea. The
Iflclul lounl KHVe Itrxier llcl and
iunih riH-n 1317 oten, and llorNle)
i lii ulid Hmlth I '27 otea
HAS FliNGipOH
ffiili or .1. M. Mlllatil or Allouali
Nild to IU In Hail Miiin.
IUiorlN uroiind 1'rlre thla week are
Hmt J M Millard, Iho Altonuh mir-
haul, teletdinne promoter and real
WtaUt man. In In ery bad nhapc flu
iindully and that hU creilltora at I'rlio
and uUuwhiro urn forulnaT -or trylmr
lu force t ollertiona mwln' him. I lift
lahllitiea locally lire unknown except
that In I "rice he I reported to one
round two thouiuind dollar.
Ulllard wan lu Prlie on WedneNday
( Uit week with one of hla ho and
flopped omt night at the homu of
llobrrt .Me Kune on North KlKhth
ctrect, the two ntcuplnir In the bane.
mnt by permliwlon, Illnuolf ami
cou mado on early utart from hero
,md were not later kccii by nnouo In
I'rlcc Hint In now recalled. I4itr thu
wo are reported to have ironn ihroiiKh
Moab and Montlcello lu an automu.
lie headed touuriU Colorado,
Tho hiiNliiNM at Altonah, wild to be
pour Nhape, In lu ulmrKo of Mra.
Millard and A Hleluhlaw, u brother.
it-law of Millard. The Altonah mer
ha nt Iiuh two kiiin omt Id Colurado
iot far from llluff City, and It U the
' ' nr of iHimv that he haa Kone there
r fmaiKlal help from them, lu the
meantime I'rlie debtor are proceed
"iK to tr and Ket what la couiIiik to
"iem
Millard owea for an automublle he
UKhl here and whKh he In how
TAVelliiK lu and iiIno a mercantile
UN for nu'rchandlM Hiippllwl hU
t-re at Altonah, betide uumeroua
Ithtr obllKatloiiN, It U tutld OlltNlde
redltum hae ulw been pimhliiK him
tch for menhandUe uiHounta. lie
fui NiippoNed to be comfortabl well
f financially until thu mutter men
t iicd cumo to the vurfuoe
Mlllanl tonner'y renliled at I'rlct
i'l ha mau frlmiU here who riKret
hear of IiIh difflcultlo
rfaj )at l'rldo'a Helper Time
.lumen Itolmulo, one of the promln-
'ut farmer of KprlnK Olen, I out
Mill a ihalleiiKe to unono who
iilnli they hae mined omo Kood
'ututoe thl eur. He hn some In
ivldual potatnoH that weigh na hli;h
five pound, nnd n collection of
hlrt.ftvu that weigh a hundred
ound Thu rent of hi crop was away
oovu tho uwrnge In Uu, And he
ould llko to hear from unbody who
"ink they can match It.'
LIVE mm MARKETS.
The tarload of Jere mlhh cow
whldi Arthur A. Tmlor nnd K C An
irt ion purclmxd nt I'nitu for Moab
people arrUed there lant Week
IJorl D.iltnn, ilert Newell and frank
Hhafer enme lu from the dewerl Vvl.
nemlay with it email bunch of their
tattle which the) wilt feed thl win
ter lMlton tate that man) of the
rattle on the ilewrt are In poor c4
dltlon, nnd unlem It itnnw wmiii there
are ery apt to be ome heav) bee.
- Miwb Time, lid
I (I Wood and Allien llench
i-MHie In from the HIk I'ark country
yeflterilii), mom . Mottti'ft Time of the
lid. to tend the hollda) with their
faiulllnt. The) ruHrt that th water
hole are freenliiK up nnd that now
I liailly needeil for the onttlo. They
have In coimtNiitly tide the hole nnd
kiep the lee broken Up Only a little
Nintw lull on the deecrt thl week, and
latled but a few hour.
Wnllnie A lwry, netretar) of the
liiiNtern I'lah WtedKruwer' hmhicIr
thin and hlnmelf n UrK owner of
beep ihiw rniiKliiK on the ewntrrn
item rt. mvm he hu limrd of no tm'k
liMMien b) riiMin of the late miiim. In
a few Invtaneeis he told The Hilll )e.
terda), eheep Imxe (Hen NhoXeled out
of the enow, hut the are feu. Tho
Nliowrnll on the deeerl enul and to
the Noutll of l'rlee I coiiNldernldy
llMhter than lovntl)
There are 1.100,(100 (ratlin lu New
Mexico thl year, with ahlpiueut out
of the Htate or two hundred unit e.
enty thoiMwud head, aucordlm; to the
annual ieMirt of the military laiard
It ieHirt' cattle price, which rnuife
limn tit so to lll.on, a not well
nutlnlalneil fur the two.)eitr period.'
A itradiial falllHK off lu ahlpinenl for
the imut four ear I attribute! to the
Mrbt iiuaraiitliie reKiilatlon which
halt tut down the number of nhlp
meitl orlglnatluK lu Mexico. The
alilt of the cattle In the Male I es
timated at fori) million dollar
A I' I'litler. udtnul i h'ef for
eeter of the t'lllted Ktale. In to be ut
Hall lke Clt) next month to take up
at the meeting of the national wool,
grower and the lln Ktovkmcu of the
country a number or matter of lm
IHirtaneo Willi thoe who are unIiik the
publli' rnngi. He will nlo give the
reeult of Iho experiment which hMii
been conduct) d by lint fnritry do
lairtinent In regard to having lambing
eniloNUre liiktead of permitting the
lambing to tako place on the range.
A number of feature. Including the
motion pit lure film which thu depart
ment of agriculture ha cnuned to be
made depktlng the wool Industry from
tho time tho fleeie I taken from thu
heep until It I manufactured Into
cloth, will be hown
Oinalin l.lio Mm U.
OMAHA. Neb, Dec. SK. Cattle
llecelpl. 100 heudi kteudy. Native
tcer, 17 60 to f 11.(0, cow and hei
fer. I CO" to I8.6C waatem ter,
Ifl.SO lo 9. ;, Texn deer, 10.00 to
170. totker and feoler. 1 6 00 to
IS. 30
Hlletp Itecelpt. lO.tOtl head,
Ntead) erllng. 19.1ft to ll.:i,
wether.. ).to to til no. I ml.
liauoiiN I'll) Mailicli.
KANHAH CITY. Dee. US. Cattlo
Itecelpt, 3100. head, higher Prime
fed tr. ttO.M to 111.21. drtawetl
beef tMr. tK.OO to tl0.it: wetern
Nteer. t7 00 to f 10.3k. cow. Il.it to
tk.tO. heifer. td.OO to tlOIU: bull.
tt.tO to 17 to, tocker and feeder.
JG.00 to fS tO. caltM, tG.OO to $11,00
Hheep Itecelpt. ItOO head, higher.
IrfimlHi, tl2 7t to tll.St. earllng.
110.71 lo 11175; WMther. tH 00 to
118 00 owe. 18. tO to 9 It
t (lra Thurila) afternoon of
lat week an unidentified man wan
picked up b) Mia erew of a freight
trulii and the laidy brought to Price
The dead man appeared to be a Her
man, wu about 3S year of age and
well drenaed The onl) thing found
upon the IhmI) wua u memorandum
book but thl contained nothing that
would lead to hU Identity It I be
lieved ho fell from the train nfter
becoming benumbed with the old
tho cold
Itubber stamp and stump pad,
badge, trade check, labels and ev
erything In office supplies, stock tnm
In aluminum, notulal nnd corpora
tion seals, Htonclls, etc Tho Sun.
THE LOSING GAME.
ELLIS SENDS MAN
TO LOOK OVER
PROJECT
'iiti.MDAD. coi.o., i:.(ii.Ni:i: mmi:
to n:m' crn,iyK.
OiilliMik llrlglit for Pair .VIoiiiiiiiIii
Water (lit CouiIiik hummer If the
CllltciK of 1'rhv Diflde to tivpt
l,roNe.ltloilKiigluvr Daufonl l
I'lciiMtl Willi HU Itctvpllnii.
Clllien of Prlte were liaudetl a
very appreciable Chrlittna gift by the
ma)oraud clt) council lant week whin
that IhmI) b) ItMlutloil iletldetl lo ion
hldir the da ii of A C Kill. Jr. and
awHiclale to provide u wippty of good
water for thl clt) It I u well known
faut that nothing o retard the de-
Vflopiuint of it communily a Impure
water for diimextlc line. nn) among
the flrt ui-tlon nuked l priwpiH
live settler and luveator I a to the
Noiirio and condition of water up
pl). Tho action of the ma)or and tho
(oiiucll In pulling the matter Hiuurely
before the people I to bo commend
ed, toid I it nti' lu the right direc
tion 'toward overcoming our prenetit
wnttr evil Thu plan of lontratt pro
piMK'd by Kill and hi anooclale pro
vide for the dell wry nf an mlHiuate
amount of pure wutir to thu pipeline
of the preaent )tem nnd III u man
ner not to burden the municipality
with a heavy bonded Indebtedne.
M O. Dunford or thu firm or D.iu
ford A. Douglu. (onNiilliiiK (iiglneer
of Trinidad, Colo, ha been retnlmd
by Kill and hi anwiclate temporar
II) lo arrange come of the detulU of
the Mtipply )tem. Thl gentleman
Mloppcd over In Pi Ice on hi wu) Kat
htkt I'rlda) to familiarize hlnmelf with
Iota I condition and to meit ouie of
our clllien. He delrwd to be under
tuttd that the wUhe of ISIIIm were
that lot a I engineer and tontratlor
are to be einplu)cd III the i-outriu tloll
of the line, and by thl arrangement
the large amount of mone) niueear)
lo wimpli'te the )atem will be '
b u reed among local iwople and
bulnea Intereat )eueflted thereby.
Thl spirit iv Idem Kl faith and
the mutter Iwcolne one of mutual
benefit and to-operHtlnn.
Publli meeting a nerlea of them
are being arrangetl wherein the
iltlsens are prlvlleginl to ak iUetlnu
rwlatlve to the uonlract and the term
thereof and at w hlth time Kill will
pluee hi proptwltlou opeuhandiHl be
fore tho people for their conelderatloii.
It Iwhoove the tltlun and taxwer
to get together on the matter wi that
prompt action ma) be obtained and
rtllef hecuretl from our prevent de
plorable water condition
Hnglneer IKinford utter meeting nu
merou cltlsen here lut I'rldit) after
noon. Including Major Horale) audi
membtr of the clt) con nil I. lift In
the evening for hi home at Trinidad.
Colo., where he will be until hIhiiiI
New Year' with hi famll) -In the
meantime he will prepare a consider
able amount of data for u In con
nection with the undertaking of his
prjnoliml. He wu delighted with the
reception uucorded him mid the mi'
merous word of encouragement fur
the proposition he represents
The silver hould be wushed In very
hot water that Is soapy and fltxin, then
pour scalding water over It
MODIFIED GERMAN TERMS
OF PEACE GIVEN PUBLIC
WASHINGTON, D. C, Dee. 28. Kollowinir n confuronco in
Uerlin Tuesday between thu knitter unci AmbiiMmdor Gerard, thu
American ntnbiiHsndor has advitted President Wilson that Ger
many ia rcatiy to grant greatly modified peace tenns.
TIiIh is thu information obtained from official circles here. It
Ik known that several cablegrams were received nt tho White
House today from Ambassador Gernrd, but neither the Wliito
llousu nor Secretary of Stale Lansing would iIIbcush them.
Thu proposal lo establish Poland ami Lithuania as independent
kingdoms and the proposal to pay a Ilelginn indemnity, offset by
nllled Indemnities, have been abandoned in the modified terms, it
was learned. Other proitosnlH are:
Kvncuntion and restoration of Helgium, Germany paying an
indemnity for damages to persons and property on the ground that
thu invasion of Kelgium was n military necessity.
Evacuation of Russian territory upon condition that Russia
f hull pay Germany an indemnity for damages lo persons and prop
erty in tho invasion of East Prussia.
Disposition of Rumania, Serbia anil Montenegro on terms satis
factory to Austria. Hiiltmrin nnd Turkov.
Restoration to Germany of all colonies in Africa, Kino Chau
and tho Pacific Islands anil payment of an indemnity by tho allies
for damages to persons and properly therein.
Evacuation of Frqnch territory.
President Hopeful of Good RcsuKh.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. U8.--.In Bplte of tho widu gulf be
tween tho insistence of tho central powers for an immediate peace
conference nnd the forecast of a unanimous refusal by the entente
allies to enter such a conference without knowing Germany's
terms In advnnce, the American government believes that tho ne
gotiations in progress arc resulting in good. It was said with
authority todny that until the door to peace actually is closed by
one side or the other President Wilson will continue to hope that
any discussion of tho subject will tend to hasten tho end of tlic wnr.
Count von Hernstorff, tho Gorman nmbassador, returning un
expectedly from New York, authorized tho Associated Press to
make the following stntemeivt: "I regard tho note of my govern
ment as constituting an acceptance of everything suggested by
President Wilson in his note to tho belligerent nations of Europe."
England SajH No Possibility of Conference.
LONDON, Dec. 28. It is not believed In official circles hero
that there exists any possibility of assembling n peace confcrcnco
as proposed in the German reply to President Wilson's note, unless
Germany Is willing to make suggostions in advance regarding her
ideas of tho torms of peace.
COM, SUIll. '! M Hli.lll.lt
IN CHICAOO MMtKICT hOON
CHICAGO. Dec 31 In the face of
tremendous effort on the part if
railroad, coal dealer and state ofll
Itial to relieve the fuel famine w tilth
now Krl the city, the l lie of coal I
destined to sour still higher during
i the t timing week Thl dlnurnglng
.prediction vta made today by (leotge
H Cushlng, editor or Illack Diamond,
and conceded be t or the bet In-
funned men lu the countr) on the ooal
situation Ctuhliig voiced the opinion
that all grade of coal will sell for
fifty cent u ton morn than the highest
price or last week.
"These new price are record
breaker," said Cushlng "There never
was a time whun Illinois coal sold for
)0. OS a ton before, and I uxpoct thosa
figure will bo maintained for thu
i next ten ilu). If not throughout thu
winter."
I Ijtbor shoitago lu the mines, made
more acute by tho holiday cclebra
itlon and the activities of speculators
who hive been holding fuel within thu
law Itching district ot Chicago I blamed
fur the latent Increase
THE METfjOWSTTHURCil
SlM-cliil Sermon I'or .New War' II)
Huv, II. T, '.elder, PaMor,
Special .New Year' services at the
Muthodlst church next Hunday with
preaching at 11 o'clock of thu fore
noon and Kuinluy suliool at 10 o'clock,
Hiibjeut. "A New Year Motto." Kp
worth league ut 7.30 o'clock of tho
evening. Toplo, "llegln Ovor Again."
Kti)M Uov II T .elder, pastor "This
I the time or good resolutions and of
the forward look The old, old prob
lem, realisation or which Is thu hall
mark or finenivs or soul, how to
better one' self and to do bolter for
other. Kver)bod) vvunta self Im
provement. lAit u begin Iho New
Year b, attending the aervlue next
Huuda) A special Invitation to inon.
There wu decided Improvement In
the attendant o of men last Habbath.
"Progress l our watchword. Wo
urc beginning to grow, llrlng )our
icir, )uur church letter and unite
with u. A most cordiul welcome to
all services
HEAVY STORMS TIE m
UP LOCAL GOAL H
MINES ll
CTAII ItAII.W IS NMVi:t I.N Bfllisl
DAYH. bIibssssssI
However, the 'I'nii k N .Now Ojk-ii nud Bl
1'nrt) Ciich or AImiiiI Two Tlioiuiaail ll
Ton Ait MoiiiI Oilier lM)ortlo Hl
In Curiam mill Hiurrj Coon tic Have Kl
the Same INiwrlotiei- Cool New. JHfll
Hnow storm or last Hoturday, Sun- Hl
iluv nnd Momlu) lilt the coal nnd mil- IH
road comimtile opi rating lu Carbon HH
nnd Kmer) rotintle hard with the re- EHI
mlt that but n smalt proportion of the ImH
priMliiit from Imal mlnei that should Pul
have gone out to the vvit ha been IliH
moved. Hunday ulglit the Utah rail- sLLI
wa running frtnn IhiMIe (late to fH
Mohrlnud and (Iter ,rthlch the con I H
proilmt or libit V-nlawk, Hiawatha H
and Mohrland I moved wn snowed H
lu nt severnl plaicti ami It wn nut tin- 1
lit rterda) aftiajwioii that u train H
Wit frotteti throughj jH
Huowpton niiil'Tiiiiv) engine were H
inplo)iil lo bin k" the drlri nt V- H
i ml ptaie In the llordon Creek sec-, H
tint with the result that nt I o'clock H
Msterda) u train or fort) ennt or coal
wtiu through billed to Halt likn City H
mid iMiliit lm titer on In Nevndn, Idn- H
ho mi it III Northwest The mine nt H
those three iatnM have In the mean- H
Hun lfii Idle ror the bttk or rallrtiud H
tar Todu) the Ullltml Htate I'ucl H
omimii) ex pet t ear nnd If It gel H
them woik will be reetinied nt the H
thne pioperlle of the oimHiny to the H
south H
The branch line or the Denver nnd
Itlo Oranile. whldi reoch Hprlng Can- H
)on nnd Hie proierlle of the Carbon H
Kuel company and Hie Htittidaril Coat H
i-ompnny In the same territory have H
hud about the same experience na the B
I'nlled Hinte Fuel iiiinpany and the
I'lah rallwn) nut of Castle dale. The
line to Kenllworth wn alo In the
same plight during the week n have
been the other. The road I. how- B
ever, now cleared from llelptr to HVHVJ
KenllWjirlh. nnd small iiunntllle or
oal have during the week been eut
I'lah 1'iiel company inlne ut Win- BVBVH
ter Quarter, Clear Creek nnd Utah
Mine, all on brnnehe of the Denver H
and Itlo (Irnmle, have not fared so HHVHVJ
badl) ua have the other. Home In- H
tirference with work lm been ex-
perlemed, but nothing lo equal the H
condlllons ut the thne camim of Iho
I'nlled Htate Kuel, the Independent pHVH
Coal mid Coke tompany, Hlnndard HHVHVJ
Coal coinniiiy. CnrlHin I'uel company H
and Hprlug Caii)in Coal lompany. At
Winter Quarter. Clear Creek nnd H
Ctah Mine henv) auovv urn nlwn)
until I puled mid crew provided for
such i mergt'iicle.
At Hall Uiko Clt). Ogden mid lu H
Idaho, Nevada and the Northwest, a !M
well a nl the smaller town of Utah,
the coal sltuatlorrl acute. Hugur fuo- HH
Inrle. smelter uud Industrial plant 1
are shutting down for lack or roal. H
Tint Denver mid Itlo flrande I prom-
Islng car, nnd It U believed will be H
cnpubln or coiling with the sltuntlou. H
There will bo no coal hortugi If the H
car come to Iho mine. The tool and M
the miner lire In Carlton county. All H
that I lucking I Iho railroad car. H
inning to the oxlgeucle or the situ- H
atlon, tint Denver and Itlo Orande Hl
during the present week hu conceit-
truti d all or ll available force on the
opening of It branch line to the coal H
mine of CurlHiu county, to thu end
that several car of coul sidetracked
bi twi'eii the mine mid Halt I-aku city BH
wero reported lo be moving yesterday IH
(Thursday) afternoon. If ntitlilng In- 9H
terfcre with the operation of trains ll
there will ho a plentiful supply of iflHH
coal In Halt iJike City this ufternoon H
nnd tho Ihreatened fumlne will be H
Tho Halt lvkti City office of III.. ILiH
coul operator were UKuIn flooded IBVI
with telegraphic appeal ror fuel, uny 11
prlte yevterdn) offered lu dislodge tho , HH
budly needetl fuel. The companies. Il
however, vvere power leu to help the IH
sltliutlon All that could be douti was
to olivine thu coal fumlne snffMrer nt HH
distant point that there wero mom ll
than nine hundred car or coal on the Hl
truck between Halt Uike City and the IH
mines, nnd that herculeun effort were H
being made to move them ll
COAI, OPIIltATOItK 'IO SIIUK LLI
nia.inr riio.M i.KcisiaTUtm H
I'lxlng of the mnxlinuui freight, VHI
charge on cool between point within HHI
the state has been asked for by the Hrl
Independent coal operators In con- bHI
ncctlon with the proposed public mil- Bf
Itlt-s bill. llepreseiiinttvek of the H
various Independent coul operators sjl
have appeared before thu publle utll- '11
(ties oommltt'e uppolnted by thu dem- H
ocratlo steering committee nnd urged '1
tho enactment of a maximum freight :H
ruta on coal for the purpose. It I as- IH
serted, of giving the people of the IDH
stutu Immediate relief from what I HoH
termed exorbitant freight rate. flHII
The coul operators ulso presented fflsasH
their cusa beforo the Politico) Jto- hBbssM
sea rcli association ut IU meeting at 9BU
Halt Lake City u few evenings ugn KH
Thu reason advanced for the enact- HwiH
I such a law was that In case flBS8IS
(Coacludod on paeo lro) piKvHsbsisssI
