THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VII. NO. 35. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, DECEMBER 29, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
MAKING PLANS FOR
BIG FLAT TOWN
According to reports that are consid
ered reliable, all arrangements are
now being made for the platting of a
new townsite and the building of a new
town on the line of the N. P. road in
section 18, about ten miles southwest
of Ronan. The site is about half a
mile north of the George Lindsay place,
just as the new railroad line reaches
the level country after the climb out
of Mission creek. It is half a mile east
and a mile north of the townsite of
D'Aste. For the present at least, so
rumor has it, this will be the only
place between Ronan and Dixon where
the N. P. will have a depot and have
an agent stationed. There will be
other sidings, but no depots. A depot
and town at this point will accommo
date a large territory, drawing from
the upper Mission creek country, the
Post creek country and a large portion
of the big fiat.
It is understood that several build
ings will go up there in the spring,
including buildings for a store-and
possibly two-a bank, grain elevators,
'a lumber yard, blacksmith shop, etc.
That it will become an important trad
ing point is conceeed, as it is surround
ed by a rich farming country and will
draw business from an extensive ter
ritory.
Commercial Club Meeting
The next meeting of the Ronan Com
mercial Club will be held Jan, 11, at
Scearce's hall] at 8 p. m., to which
everybody is invited.
In addition to the regular" order of
business, the following papers will be
read:
Water System- "Report on the pres
ent status," Mayor J. A. Lemire.
"Gravity System," Earl Covell.
"A Feasible System, including Bond
ing,'" W. V. Windus.
Paper on "Finances," Stanley
Scearce.
To conclude with a smoker.
COMMITTEE.
POLSON AGAIN ISOLATED BY
PILES OF SNOW AND ICE
Since Saturday last Poison has been
practically isolated from the outside
world by huge piles and drifts of snow
on both slopes of the Poison hill on the
south and by ice on the lake to the
north. Last Saturday's auto stage
made it a little over half way between
Ronan and Poison and was then forced
to abandon the trip and return to Ro
nan. Four horses and a bob sled came
down later and took the mail through.
Since that time the auto stage has not
made a trip to Poison, being met here
with teams and sleds. Transportation
across the lake closed Saturday and
our neighbors on the north have entered
upon their annual period of hibernation.
The stage road from Ronan to Ra
valli has been in good condition and the
mail and passenger cars are making
regular trips on schedule time.
BOYS' AND GIRLS' WEEK AT
BOZEMAN, JAN. 29---FEB. 3
A special feature of this year's
Farmers' Week at the State college
will be a school of instruction for boys
and girls between the ages of ten and
eighteen. In the past farmers and
their wives have been invited to come
to Bozeman and spend a week receiving
instruction along the lines of agricul
ture and home making. The boys and
girls were left at home. As a result
few of them know anything about the
work of the State College of Agricul
ture and the fundamental principles of
agriculture which underl/e successful
farming, It is safe to state that
ninety per cent of the young people
who leave the country and go to the
city have never had an opportunity to
learn of the opportunities that are
found at their very doors. They have
seen only the dark, hard side of farm
life. They have not been shown that
when the labor of the hands is mixed
with the labor of the head that farm
ing is not only the most attractive but
the most lucrative occupation open to
young people at the present time. The
old trite yet ever true statement that
it is, hard to teach an old dog new
tricks, is true of farming. Better
farming and better home making will
cone when we teach our Montana boys
and girls the things which we are at
tempting to teach their parents. We
must teach them, however, from the
boys' and girls' standpoint. It goes
without saying that a boy or girl so
taught will develop a strong incentive
to stay on the farm, to help make it
more attractive, more profitable and
the whole community a better place to
live. Director Cooley and his assist
ants realize this and are sparing no
efforts to bring boys and girls from all
parts of Montana to Bozeman during
the week of January 29th to February
3rd. Lectures, demonstrations and
judgingcontests will be conducted by the
different departments of the college.
Every hour of the day will offer some
thing of interest and profit to the
young people. The girls will be given
instruction in domestic science, do
mestic art, home management, nursing
and allied subjects. Parents, teachers,
county superintendents of schools,
clubs and other organizations through
out the state are asked to co-operate
in making the new movement* in agri
cultural education a success.-M. J.
Abbey, State Club Leader, Bozeman,
Montana.
WAR EMANCIPATES
THE TURKISH WOMEN
Constantinople.-Since the allies aban
doned the Dardanelles attack Constan
tinople has become normal and is now
as far removed from the theater of
war as any big city in neutral coun
tries. The cafes and motion picture
houses are well attended, and the thea
ters are crowded. Recently there was
a big first night in the Petit Champs.
the occasion being the performance of
a French comedy. The actors were
Turks, but the actresses were all Ar
menians, as Turkish women are not
yet permitted to appear on the stage.
but the general opinion is expressed by
all thinking Turks that before long
their women will make their first ap
pearance aq actresses.,
The emancipation of women in Tur
key has made remarkable progress
since the beginning of the war. In the
best society in Constantinople the wo
men no longer wear their veils when
receiving their guests. Though veils
continue to be worn by the Turkish
women in the street, still the fashion
has made them so flimsy and transpar
ent that they might just as well be dis
pensed with.
Consequently all the fascination and
mystery that heretofore has surround
ed the harem has suddenly disappeared.
There is no longer any such thing, and
in its place there is simply the usual
family life. The Turkish woman is as
much a housewife as her European sis
ter, and in this war her resources have
been taxed to the utmost. espite the
fact that fhe richan-ricultnral country
of Anatolia is not far distant. the prices
of all necessaries of life have increased
enormously.
Turkey has awakened from its long
lethargy, and the war has brought a
new life in the empire. Progress is
now the keynote, and the indications
are that within a few years Constanti
nople will be one of the most advanced
cities in the world.
++++++++++++++++++
* 4.
+ PRACTICAL HEALTH HINT. 4
* 4.+
+ Chilblains. +
+ With the advent of cold weath- +
+ er many persons complain of 4
+ painful, burning. swelling and +
+ itching in the fingers and toes +
+ which had at som"- time, proba- +
+ bly a year or wore ago, been +
+ frostbitten. The annoying and +
+ painful trouble is frequently ob- +
+ stinate to treat. Simple meas- +
+ ures often are effective, howev- +
+ or. After the condition has ap- +
+ peared, practice keeping the +
+ parts warm, but not by directly V
+ applying beat (as from the fire), +
+ but by improving the circulation +
+ of the blood tn the fingers or +
+ toes. This can be accomplished +
+ by plunging the parts in cold wa- +
+ ter for a few seconds and drying +
+ them and rubbing them thor- +
+ oughly. Many persons are more +
+ troubled by the chilblains at 4
+ night. Being kept awake by the 4
4 discomfort is a common com-.
4 plaint For this affection at +
+ night hot goose grease well rub- +
+ bed into the feet or hands or +
" wherever the burning and itch- +
4 ing are gives great relief. It is 4
+ best to sit before the fire when 4
4 rubbing in the goose grease. If 4
4 this simple home treatment does 4
+ not give permanent relief it is +
+ then time to go to a physician 4
4 for electrical treatment. +
Montana's Deficit Small
The principal problem confronting a
majority of the states is the same-to
NEW OPERA HOUSE
CLAIMED BY FIRE
Ronan's new opera house, the pride of every-resident of
the town, is no more. Erected by H. M. Gehlert and com
pleted only in October last, it was of short life. The fire
fiend claimed this structure, as it has claimed practically
everything else ever built in the business district in Ronan.
Shortly after 1 o'clock Wednesday night fire was dis
covered in the building by Leslie Young and another gentle
man who were walking up the street. One of them rushed
to the telephone office to give the alarm, while the other ran
to the Carper pool hall to notify a crowd of men still at that
place. In a few minutes a dozen or more men were on the
scene but the fire had gained such headway that it was be
yond control, especially where there was no water to fight
with. Considerable snow was thrown on the flames, but the
heat and dense smoke soon drove them from the building
and it was given up as lost.
There was a moving picture show in the house that
night and it is thought the fire originated from the furnace
or chimney and had probably been smoldering for a couple
of hours before being discovered. Effective work saved all
adjoining buildings, even to the photograph gallery only a
few feet away. A foot or more of snow on the roofs of the
buildings aided materially in the work and kept the flames
from belching through the opera house roof as they would
have done otherwise. Little trouble was experienced in
saving the big Scearce store immediately across the street.
Wet blankets were hung over the plate glass windows, pro
tecting them, while the brick walls provided their own
safety.
Mr. Gehlert's loss is estimated at $10,000, covered by
an insurance of $5,000. The building was new, substantial
and thoroughly equipped as an opera house and undoubtedly
had few equals in the state. The loss of the opera house is
felt keenly by the people of Ronan and vicinity. All were
justly proud of having an amusement house of , this char
acter in Ronan and while the loss is great to Mr. Gehlert
personally, it is also felt by everybody.
A stream of water at hand when the fire was first dis
covered would easily have saved the building and a loss of
$10,000, fully one third of the amount that would be required
to construct an adequate and up-to-date water system that
would protect the entire town from such conflagrations. In
this, as in all things, there is a moral. Will Ronan benefit
by it?
The Steady Subscriber Who Pays In Advance
How dear to our heart is the steady subscriber
Who pays in advance as the year follows year,
Who sends his renewal the first time we ask it
And thus lets us share in the world's Christmas cheer.
The steady subscriber,
The cherished subscriber,
Who pays in advance as the year follows year.
We love the subscriber who says: "Here's your money,
"You surely have earned it; I give it quite free.
"Your paper don't give us the news of the nations,
"But does give the news that is dearer to me."
Ah! that's the subscriber,
The cherished subscriber,
Who has our best wishes wherever he be.
For fifty-two weeks we have tried hard to please you,
To give you the news from the friends you hold dear,
Reporting each item the sweet and the bitter,
As best we could get them from far and from near.
"THE TRUTH" is our motto
Don't you think you ought to
Send in your renewal right now for next year?
keep expenditures within the limit of
revenues, said Governor S. V. Stewart
upon his return from Washington
where he attended the governors' con
ference.
"Every state has been creating new
commissions and trying to keep up with
the trend of regulating this, that and
the other activity," said Governor
Stewart, "and. thousands of dollars
have been spent in excess of reve
nues."
Montana's deficit is not over $325,
000. Some states are behind millions
of dollars.
Farmers Ask Legislation
In addition to the re-election of L.
W. Robinson of Forsyth as president
and D. McGuire of Hamilton as vice
president, the Farmers' Federation of
Montana, in session at Billings last
Thursday, adopted a number of reso
lutions. The chief resolutions demand
legislation which will make 6 per cent
the legal rate of interest, endorse the
Torrenz system of land titles, state
railroad control, favor revision of the
tax laws, endorse the Whiteside farm
loan low, additional legislation to make
effective the grain inspection law, an
amendment against gambling, normal
and limited college courses in training
high schools and a greaten income for
the state university. The federation
adjourned sine die at midnight. The
executive committee and president
will later fix the date for next year's
meeting place.
A Letter of Thanks
We wish to thank all those who par
ticipated in making up our Christmas
box. It is impossible to express our
entire appreciation in mere words. We
all greatly enjoyed, the surprise, and
we feel honored in having the privilege
of living in a community where the
people are so kind and generous. We
wish yon one and all a happy new year
and many of them.
We are yours sincerely,
MR. and MRS. GEO. N. SNIDER.
To Our Friends and Patrons
Owing to the rapid increase in the
volume of business transacted by the
banks of this city, it has become nec
essary, in order to facilitate our busi
ness, to shorten the hours during which
we will be open for the transaction of
business.
From and after the first day of Jan
uary, 1917, we, the undersigned banks,
will be open to the public for the trans
action of business from nine a. m. to
four p. m. on all days except Sundays
and holidays.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK,
RONAN STATE BANK.
NEW ATlORNEY GENERAL
WILL REFORM MONTANA
According to a statement made last
week by S. C. Ford, who tapes the
office of attorney general on January
1st, the redlight districts throughout
the state must immediately go out of
business.
Mr. Ford stated that those provisions
of the state law making it a misde
meanor for any person to keep a house
of ill-fame, or to reside in such a
house, will be strictly enforced. Spe
cial attention will be devoted to that
provision of the law making it a mis
demeanor for the owner of any build
ing to permit it to be usee for such
purposes, and the owners of such prop
erty, rather than the occupants, will
be prosecuted first.
"I made my compaign upon the Re
publican party platform and upon a
personal platform that if elected I
would impartially enforce all the
laws," said Mr,. Ford. "'hat personal
platform was made to be kept and as
an official sworn to enforce the laws,
the discretion of enforcing some laws
and winking at the non-enforcement of
others does not lie with me.
"I realize there are many laws upon
the statute books the wisdom of which
is questioned by a considerable number
of people. Whether they are right or
wrong does not enter into the matter.
That phase of the situation is for the
legislature to consider and if people
consider the state would be better off
without such laws, let them take it up
with the assembly that will be in ses
sion here for the next two months."
Apropos of the above, a Missoula
dispatch says:
The announced intention of S. C.
Ford, attorney general-elect, to close
all restricted districts within the state
will mean an increased tax levy in
Missoula, it is said. The city has been
assessing monthly fines against in
mates and of the local redlight district,
which have amounted to approximately
$15,000 a year. The police magis
trate's report shows that last month's
fines amounted to $1,245, of which in
mates paid $705 and landlords $540.
In Appreciation
I wish to express my sincere appre
ciation to all those who worked so
faithfully Wednesday night, during the
burning of the opera house, in remov
ing and saving the fixtures and stock
in my photograph gallery. I wish to
add that they did much better than I
could have done had I been present.
H. W. LEAR.
COST A DIAMOND FOR
EACH TIME JILTED
Kansas City, Mo.-A well dressed
young man walked into a loan office
here. Hle brought forth his pocketbook
and paid the interest on money he had
borrowed on a locket.
Then he asked Frank Nevin, ap
praiser, to be allowed to see the trin
ket. Nevin produced it. The young
man examined it and grew confidential.
"That locket," he said. "represents
four love affairs gone astray. You will
notice four of the seven diamonds with
which it was originally set are missing.
It was four years ago that I became
engaged the first time. The girl sug
gested I take a diamond from the locket
for our engagement ring. I have been
engaged three times since, and every
time I have used one of the diamonds.
The girls have broken their engage
ments and then kept the ring.
"You see these three remaining
stones? I hope to be able to find a girl
that will keep her promise before they
are all gone."
Mr. Nevin said the diamonds in the
locket were worth about $75 each.
PROHIBS M ING
VIGOROUS FIGHT
Immediately after the holidays advo
cates of prohibition in congress plan to
carry on a vigorous campaign for the
proposed federal constitution amend
ment and to exert every possible effort
to get a vote on it at this session in
spite of the general belief that it will
be beaten.
The senate judiciary committee's ac
tion in voting to report the amendment
with a recommendation for its passage
opened the way for the resolution in
both houses, the house judiciary com
mittee having taken similar action two
weeks ago.
In the house it is proposed to appeal
to the rules committee for a special
rule to bring the resolution before the
house for a vote-within a prescribed
time. Champions of the resoltiion in
the senate can resort to no such par
limentary expedients and must take
their chance In getting the amendment
ahead of other legislation. Senator
Sheppard, author of the senate reso
lution, will urge its consideration at
every opportunity.
The senate committee amended the
wording of the resolution, but Its effect
is unchanged and would prohibit the
manufacture, importation and sale of
liquor for beverage purposes , in the
United States.
Even the most ardent advocates of
the amendment do not expect a victory
at this session, inasmuch as a two
thirds majority of both houses is re
quired. But they do expect an in
creased majority for the amendment in
both houses. Ultimate victory in the
Sixty-fifth congress is their hope.
The District of Columbia prohibition
bill will be voted on in the senate Jan.
9. Another measure to bar liquor ad
vertising from the malls in prohibition
states was favorably reported from 11w
senate poastofi -comftet .
"I expect the district prohibition bill
to pass the house," Democratic Leader
Kitchin said, "but I do not think any
national prohibition measure can ob
tain the necessary two-thirds vote in
the house at this time."
FARMERS AND CONSUMERS
WILL ASK FOR LEGISLATION
Helena. Mont., Dec. 25. -The farm
ers and consumers of the state will
receive consideration at the hands of
the Montana legislature which meets
here for a two months' session on Jan
uary 6. Bills in their interests have
already been prepared and will be in
troduced immediately after the session
opens formally.
Indications are that all legislation
passed by the coming session will be
of a compromise and joint nature since
the senate is Republican by a large
majority, while the house is democratic.
In the senate there are 29 Republicans
and 12 Democrats; in the house 49
Democrats and 46 Republicans. From
this it is believed the session will prove
interesting.
Railroad and flour mill regulation,
grain inspection, measures for the
benefit of the farmer; bills dealing
with the high cost of living, land loans
and taxation probably will occupy lead
ing places in the legislative scheme of
the session.
There has been some talk of an at
tempt to introduce a law granting
cities county opinion on prohibition, It
is declared, however, by many of the
leading lawyers of the state that such
a law, if passed, would prove uncon
stitutional because the prohibition law
was established through the initiative.
It is believed by many, therefore, that
the attempt will be abandoned.
An effort to pass a six-day racing
bill, with pari-mutel privileges ap
pended, is expected to be made. The
prospects for its passage are not re
garded as favorable. Another attempt
is likely to tax. mines. Neither party
is committed to such legislation, and
opposition probably will prove sucoeus
ful.
The car shortage and the increased
flour prices receive considerable atten
tion. The advance in all commodity
prices also will be looked into by the
legislators, it is understood.
Among the needed inventions may
still be ranked a serviceable raincoat-
serviceable in shower or storm, serv
iceable in variable weather, service
able to the size of the buyer's purse.
