in ton
SOUTH BUSINESS
Auditor. County 1-1-14 J
VQL XXXIII NO 3
WAUSEON OHIO, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
HDLIDAY SEASON
HowJThe Christmas Spirit Finds Ex
pression in This Community The
Hume Comers and The Home Folks
The Overflow of Good Will and
Good Intentions for the New Year.
Once more we are in the midst of
the tiulKiay seaapn and whatever , we
limy say mul howuver inuinerent we
niay appear, uown at ine heart oi
every one oi us we are mighty glad
tnai Cnnsimus has uie mvetemte
hauit oi coming "once a year."
Christmas i tally arnves before it
gu.a iiert j and people have been vic
tinis ot kne "Curiai-nias bug" lor the
past tvvo or tiute weeks, a circum
aiance lor 'wiuu the merchants are
pioiounuiy gleeful; lor it makes peo
ple ""open up'' get generous and buy
K"oua mey ouid never have thought
of buying otherwise.
Wauseon merchants testify that
their trade has - been exceptionally
good this season and the clothing and
u ry goods merchants say that the buy.
ing nas been largely of the staples
and useful articles rather than the
novelties and more frivolous class of
K'ooda, which generally constitute a
l.iri;e proportion of the Christmas
trade. This holiday trade of the
merchants is in ltselj an expression of
tne Christmas spirit. But Wauseon
has other expressions of this spirit
than that of buying and gelling.
The ladies of the Civic Club took
charge of the gifts from the Sunday
Schools aod distributed eighteen good
large baskets of provisions to the
homes of as many needy ones.
The Community Christmas Tree not
as large this year as last but possess
ing, to our mind, more of real grace
and syniettry was put in place last
Saturday and the opening exercises
, were held in due form on Saturday
evening. Music was rendered by pu
pils of the schools. Mayor Hoy pre
sented the tree and Prof. Perry gave
a splendid address replete with
Christmas spirit which was highly a p.
predated by all who heard it. Sunday
evening the various Sunday Schools of
the Village held their usual Christmas
exercises and it goes without saying
that there were many happy kiddies
in town whose heads were tilled with
l. Hsant anticipations of what the
moi roy would bring to them.
One of the principal factors in the
good cheer and happir.esi that pre
vails in our village each holiday sea
son is the home coming of the boys
'and girls and men and women who
are glad to get back to spend a little
time with the "Old Home Folks" and
how glad the "Old Home Folks" are
to have them come back. How glad
and how proud! I hey come from Uni.
vei-Mty and College, from shop and
office and profession; they bring us
something from the world outside of
the Home Town boundaries, they may
bring us gifts, but best of all they
bring us themselves and we know that
they are our owa part of ourselves;
we- are glad to have them with us,
glad to hear their voices, Bee their
faces and proud of their development
and' sm-cesses. Christmas means twice
-as much to lis with them as it would
without them. We are all glad that
it conies once a year and not many of
us would object if it should happen
to come twice. '
We shall carry over with us into
the new year much of tne joy and
gladness and good will and good inten
tions which the holiday season has
brought us and consequently we shall
all be better and happier and easier
to live with than we might have been
if Christmas had never come.
MRS. JUDSON CAMMARN
. Mrs. Judson Cammarn died at her
home 136 Superior street Friday
morning uecember Z3ra alter a lin
gering illness. She was the daughter
ot Mr. ana Mrs. t . M. Barnes of Wau
seon. She was born in Fulton county,
October 19, 1866, and at the time of
death was aged 60 years. 2 months
and 4 days
bhe leaves a husband, one daughter
Loia, two sons Tully and Hugn, an
aged mother and three Bisters. The
sisters 'are Mrs. John hitesell and
Mrs. frank Oorsuch of Toledo, and
Mrs. f rame strawberry or wauseon
Her father and two sisters have pre
ceded her to the grave.
bhe was a member of the Christian
church. Funeral services were held
in that church Tuesday at 10:00
o'clock. Rev. J. A. Wharton officiat
ing. Burial was made in Wauseon
cemetery.
CARD OF THANKS
We desire to express,, our sincere
thanks to neighbors and friends who
gave us of their help and sympathy.
during the illness and death of our
beloved, wife and mother. .We are al
so deeply grateful to those who irave
the use of automobiles for the funeral,
for the beautiful floral tributes, to the
pastor Key. Wharton, lor his words
of consolation and to the choir of the
Christian church for their sweet ser
vice of song.
Judson Cammarn,
Mr. and Mrs.. Tully Cammarn,
Hugh Cammarn,
Lola Cammarn.
INSTALLATION. .
The installation of officers tf Ot-
tokee Grange was held at their hall
rriday afternoon December 22nd.
Charles LaSalle, past master of Aetna
Grange acting as installing officer am
u. W. Williams acting assistant fol
lowing is the Roster for the year 1917.
Master w. U. uorton. -Overseer
W. H. Campbell.
Lecturer Maria Gasche.
Steward A. R. Loveland.
Assistant Steward M. L. Eldredge.
Chaplain Eliza TrudeL
Secretary Harmon Gasche.
Treasurer William Fieldmire.
Gate Keeper Richard Shadle.
Pomona Nettie Fieldmire.
Flora Kate Williams.
Ceres Elmira Loveland.
Lady Assistant Steward Laura
Walters.
After the installation a short pro
gram was rendered which was follow
ed by refreshments.
The first meeting of yie year will
be held Saturday January 13th at
which D. W. Williams will give "A
Lesson . on Sou Fertility." Harmon
Gasche will lead the discussion on
"The County Farm Bureau."
General Topic: - Some ways to re
duce the cost of living. The program
will be supplemented by music and
recitation by other members of the
Grange. '
LECTURER.
GET A FORESTRY EXPERT.
In order to inform woodlot owners
relative to methods of selling, prives
and cost of lumbering operations, a
bureau of exchange for the benefit of
those having marketable timber for
sale has been established by the Ohio
experiment station at Wooster. In
spection 'of timber land for the pur.
pose of estimating marketable timber
will be made by a representative of
the Experiment Station wpon the re
quest oi any owner.
Traveling expenses and the subsis
tence of the representative while do
ing the work are the only incidental
charges to the woodlot owner. He
receives a report, including an esti
mate of merchantable material, its
quality and stumpage value. In ad
dition suggestions will be given for
the management and improvement of
the timber areas.
. OH THE MAP
Fulton County Placed on The Map By
Holstein Breeders Interesting Ar
ticle in' Regard to Fulton Appearing
In Holstein-Friesian World for De
cember The Home of Many Pure
Breds.
The following article was imhlished
in the Holstein-Friesian World, Syra
cuse, in. X., issue ol December 9th,
1916. and is an ex am nip. of how when
citizens do something really worth
while their commumtv is advertised
far and wide.
The article evidently first armeared
in the "Agricultural Student" of Col.
umbus:
Located in the. northwestern part of
the state, Fulton County, Ohio, with
its numerous never-failing streams.
flowing wells, springs, and tubular
wells, with soil adapted to the grow
ing of alfalfa, clover, cowpeas,. soy
beans, oats, corn and sorghum, of
fers excellent opportunities for dairy
ing, f or many years cheese factories
and creameries afforded the only mar
ket for whole-milk, other than to pro
ducers living in the eastern part of
the county who could send it to To
ledo. With three steam and two elec.
trie roads crossing the county and
running into Toledo, all could ship
there if necessary. But for the past
12 years condenseries, of wfcich there
are four, have been getting the
greater part of the milk. There are
but two cheese factories and one
creamery in the county at the present
time. .
The Helvetia Condensery. located
at Delta, receives annually, more than
30,000,000 pounds of milk, and the
Van Camp Packing Company, at:
Wauseon, 23,000,000 pounds, all of
which is produced in the county. The
van camp company also has a large
plant at Bryan, Ohio, which is about
seven miles west of tbe Fulton county
line, tnat gets about Y.ooo.UOO pounds
of "milk from- Fulton county. The
Uhio Dairy Company ' at Morenci,
Mich., about one-half mile north of
the Fulton county line, receives' about
20,000,000 pounds annually, about 7,
000,000 pounds coming from thi3
county. From the Morenci plant the
Ohio Dairy Company ships a carload
of bottled milk to Toledo each day.
The two cheese factories get, approx
imately, 4,000,000 pounds of milk.
From all parts . of the county cream
is shipped to Toledo, while from the
eastern part milk is sent there for re
tail trade.
The dairymen of the county realize
the value of purebred sires with a
known ancestry. They are awake to
the fact that less than 2 per cent of
the cows of the United States are
purebred, that the demand far ex
ceeds the supply of good cows, and
that this demand is growing faster
than is the supply.
In August 1914, the Fulton County
Holstein-Friesian Association was or
ganized with a membership of 3o. L.
E. Connell was elected president; W.
H. Standish, vice-president; and Jay
C. Burr, secretary-treasurer. The
motto of the association is "More and
better cows for Fulton County," end'
every member seems to have adopted
it. The membership of the associa
tion now numbers 80. ' The number of
purebred cattle in the1 county is
around 1,500, and if the present ac
tivities are continued it may be safely
predicted that there will be 3,000 in
the county in five years.
Five cows in the county have made
world's records; six have records
above 30 pounds of butter in seven
A Happy New Year
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS
. MAY COME Old subscribers and new,
Readers who are not subscribers, strangers into
whose hands this copy of the paper may happen
to fall, Correspondents and Advertisers; We
sincerely wish you a Happy and Prosperous New
Year.
We wish you all strength and wisdom to
meet every emergency and combination of cir
cumstances which the year 1917 may bring and
to so use and control such circumstances that you
may leave behind you through the year monu
ments, of success, and that you may fill your lives
full to the brim with that treasure which may
never be taken from you.
Sincerely,
THE FULTON COUNTY TRIBUNE.
COURT HOUSE
Activities of Common Pleas Court
During Holiday Week New Cases
Filed Hearings Changes
Sheriff's and Coroner's Offices.
GRANGE ATTITUDE
- . .
The Wauseon Really and Investment Co,
After January 1st
Will Be Located at 208 Fink & Haumesser Bldg.
'jpHIS ORGANIZATION has enjoyed three
years growth and development in the
Local Insurance Field and is in a Position
to care for Your Every Insurance Want.
The Chief Asset of an Insurance Firm is Strong
Reliable Companies, Companies whose years of
Experience and Financial Standing will enable them
to weather any loss.
To that end we have arranged to Represent only
such companies as have stood the test of time whose
management is beyond the temptation of accepting
Poor Risks, thus giving you the benefit of Absolute
Protection.
days and eleven have yearly milk rec
ords above 24,000 pounds. Nineteen
cows, during the year ending May,
1916, won prizes offered by the Holstein-Friesian
Association- of Amer
ica. Sixteen two-year-old heifers have
produced an average of nearly , 20
pounds of butter in seven days.
The cow's in the county with rec
ords of 30 pounds of butter or better
in seven days are: Crown Princess
Maxie De Kol pd, Lindenwood Hope
and Aaggie Beauty of Lindenwood,.1
owned oy u. w. Kisipg; Koyalton De
Kol Fern and Royal De Kol-Calla,
owned by.W. H. Standish; and Royal,
ton De Kol Violet, owned by H. A.
McQuillin. Some of the semi-official
records made by cows bred and de
veloped in the county are Linden
wood Hope, with 1,164.3 pounds of
butter from 20,404.7 pounds of milk,
owned by G. W. Rising; Jolie Johanna
Netherland, butter 1,057.8 pounds,
milk 27,954.6 pounds, owned by Burr
Brothers; Lady Wadna butter. 1,002.8
pounds, milk 22,912.1 pounds, owned
zy H. A. McQuillin; and Irma Gilt
hidge Queen 2d, butter 948.6 pounds
milk 26,745.3 pounds, owned by L. E.
Connell.
Irma . Gilt Edge Queen 2d was the
first cow under five years of age to
give more than 26,000 pounds of milk
Royalton De Kol Violei bids fair to
be the champion milk cow of the
world. Eight months after she hud
calved, she was in the lead and was
still going at a merry clip.
Sir Korndyke Queen, a 31-pound
otm oj. rumiac jvornuyxe. is me
senior sire and Prince Pietertje Hen
gerveld Segis, a 32-pound son of Pie
tenje riengerveia segis, the junior
sire, in the Burr. Brothers" herd. Jo
hanna Concordia Champion. the
senior herd sire in L. E. ConnelPs
herd, is proving himself a great sire.
Twenty-one of his two-year-old
daughters have made seven-day rec
ords, eleven of which average nearly
20 pounds of butter. The milk and
butter champion, the junior herd sire
in Li. K. Connelrs herd is by Duke
Ormsby Pietertje De Kol 3d, a son of
Lindenwood Hope and out of Irma
Gilt Edge Queen 2d, the champion
senior four-year-old milk cow. This
youngster enjoys the distinction of
being, the only animal, living or dead,
whose dam is a-world's record milk
cow and whose sire's dam is a world's
record butter cow. His breeding
coupled with his individuality, be
speaks for him a great future. Rising
hurst Johanna Ormsby Hope, by Jo
lu.nna Concordia Champion and out
of Lindenwood Hope, is the sire in
the herd of G. W. Rising.
A proposition from the county HoL
stein-Friesian Association to the Ful
ton County Fair Association, to the
effect that the Holstein association
would give a certain amount if the
fair association would give a like
amount to be used as premum.s to ex
hibitors of Holstein cattle at the fair,
was accepted. The fair was held at
Wauseon in September and the result
was certainly satisfactory. When the
entries were closed there were 132
Holstein-Friesian cattle owned by
breeders in the county arranged in
five tents provided for the occasion
by the fair association. This was a
show which in point of individualty,
breedng and number would have been
a credit to any state fair, yet seldom
seen there.
In the list there were six half herds,
eight young herds, six graded herds,
26 yearling heilers, 21 two-year-olds,
12 aged cows, 12 yearling bulls, four
aged bulls, and eight herds of five
each shown as get of sire. The judge
had no small job to place the awards
and it was not at all surprising that
his judgment differed from that of
some of the bystanders. Plans have
already been formulated for the show
next year and to encourage the
breeders to give more attention to
fitting the cattle for the fair larger
premiums will be offered.
The members of the county Hol
stein association feel that their efforts
as an association and as individaul
breeders are being rewarded and.ap-
. . . ..... i i ii. i ;n
preciatea ana tnat tne gooa mat win
come from their co-operation will be
far-reaching. Dairying in the county
is still in 'its infancy when it is con
sidered that the first purebred cattle
were brought into the county only 15
years ago, and that the real develop
ment of the industry began two years
ago when the Holstein association
was formed. The results that have
been accomplished in the two years'
existence are an example of what
may be done through co-operation
and a working aim. The Agricultural
Student, Ohio.
ANNOUNCEMENT
Pentecostal prayer meeting at 426
West Park street, every Sunday af
ternoon at 2:30 beginning December
31st, to pray for the salvation of sin
ners. The Baptism of The Holy
Ghost for believers, healing for the
sick, Jesus Christ the same yesterday
and today and forever, Heb. 13-8.
Come let us pray for a Pentecostal
Revival.
ACIDITY IN SOIL
Contrary to common 6pinion that
acid phosphate increases soil acidity
this material has not been found to
make the land more acid in field and
laboratory tests at the Ohio Experi
ment Station. Yields of clover on
Wooster soils treated with acid phos
phate were larger last season than on
soils receiving no fertilizer.
Unlimed plots to which complete
fertilizers were applied with phos
phorous in bonemeal and basic slag,
in a 5-year rotation, produced more
clover than soil similarly treated ex
cept that acid phosphate carried the
phosphorous. However, lime applied
on the bonemeal plot produced larger
effects than on the one receiving acid
phosphate.
Laboratory tests at the Experiment
Station have likewise indicated that
acid phosphate does not have any im
portant influence in increasing soil
acidity
REVIVAL CONFERENCE
A Revival Conference is being plan
ned for the Thirtieth Reunion of The
Moody Bible Institute of Chicago, Jan
uary 31 to February 5 which is known
as Founder's day. In the list of
speakers already announced are Bi.
shop Luther B. Wilson, D. D., of
the Methodist Episcopal Church; Rev.
R. A Tcr-6y, h. D., Dean of the Los
Angeles Bible I Institute; Rev. A. B.
Winchester, D. D., Pastor of Knox
Presbyterian Church, Toronto, Canada
Rev. C. I. Scofield, D. D., Editor of
the Scofield Reference Bible; and Pas.
tor Paul Rader of the Moody Church.
1 here is expected to be a large gather
ing of the Alumni of the Institute in
cluding evangelists, missionaries, and
other Christian workers from all over
the world. A call has gone out from
the Institute for all its friends to pray
that the old-time fire may fall. Ex
pectant visitors are asked to write to
the Institute for details and the
reservation of rooms.
INSTALLATION
The installation of officers elect of
Losure Post No. 35 G. A. R. Asso
ciate Members and Ladies Relief
Corps No. 20 of Wauseon, Ohio, will
take place in G. A R Hall January
13th, 1917. This is to be a joint in
stallation and as it will consume some
time it was decided to commence
above work at 1:30 o'clock p. m. sharp
in order to finish above work as early
as possible. All members of above
order with their families are invited
to be present on this occasion. Do not
confuse the date Saturday January
lbtn, 1917.
LEANDER BUXTON, Com.
P. H. BAYES, Adj't.
DAVIS CHILDREN
AT THE PRINCESS
Many times in the past in their
home, at Sunday School entertain
ments and on the Chautauqua plat
form the Davis Sisters, Phylis, Eunice
and Dorothy have delighted the peo
ple of Wauseon with their beautiful
songs and graceful movements; this
evening they will appear at the Prin
cess Theatre in a program that will
please and delight old and young.
These talented little misses should
have a crowded house.
Litigation and the legal processes
of the courts do not cease during the
hoiiday season and Wednesday was a
very busy day for Judge Wolf and
other court officials. Four new cases
were filed with the Clerk of Courts
Wednesday as follows: State of Ohio
ex rel Eathel Hartman vs Clyde Bow
ers. Amiel Vernier vs Lloyd and Paul
Mohr, petition for appointment of re
ceiver and equitable relief. Zion Re
formed Church of Toledo Classis vs
Wm. Grether et al, quiet title. Irma
Hawley vs Garrett Hawley, divorce.
Wednesday forenoon Judge Wolf
was kept on the bench hearing a mo
tion to strike out and make more defi
nite insertion in cross petition in the
case of Morningstar vs Sage; a mo
ton to strike out certain matter in pe
tition in the case of Citizens Bank vs
Fred Deck et al; and a demurrer as
to the sufficiency of the ammended pe
tition in the case of Carpenter vs Bur
gess, to constitute a cause of action.
Next Monday sheriff John B Mc
Quillin will have completed his sec
ond term as sheriff and he will be sue.
ceeded by Sheriff W. S. Boone. Mr.
and Mrs. McQuillin will move into
their new home on West Chestnut
street opposite the sheriff's residence
and jail and Mr. and Mrs. Boone will
take possession of the sheriff's quar
ters. Mr McQuillin will take Mr.
Boone's place as chief deputy.
Next Monday is also the day when
Coroner C. F. Hartman will be suc
ceeded in that office by Dr. A. M. Wil-
kins of Delta.
The next official to change will be
Judge F. A. Barber who will com
plete his term on h hruary 9th and
will be succeeded by his nephew A.
M. Barber who has, also been his de
puty. Miss Florine Files wiu'be tne
new deputy in this office.
Taxnavers have been keeping Mr.
Roos and lus denutv in the treasurer's
office husy during the past few weeks
and will continue to make that office
a busy place until January 20th.
PROTECTION VS WORRY
Consider the automobile. When the
car is going to stand still for more
chan a few minutes the driver stops
the engine. By doing this he saves
gasoline, oil, and above all, useless
vvear and tear on the machinery. If
he lets the engine "run idle" he has
wasted a lot. ot valuable matnal,
shortened the lifei of his engine and
in the meantime the automobile hasn't
budged an inch. !
Tne birds build nests for the protec
tion of their young against the wea
ther; the foxes dig holes for security
against foes; the squirrels lay by
stores of nuts against the coming of
winter; -and dogs bury bones against
the day when bones will be scarce.
These are the manitestations ot a
normal protective instinct "arising
trom an experience of many, many
generations. So far as is known
though, no bird ever tried to build
more nests than his neighbor; no fox
ever fretted because he only had one
hole in which to hide; no squirrel ever
died of anxiety lest he should not lay
by enough nuts for two winters in
stead of for one, and no dog ever lost
any sleep over the fact that he didn't
have enough bones laid aside to pro
vide for his declining years.
'this protective instinct is also pres.
ent in tne human mind and when pro
perly airectea is a great source ot
prosperity both to the individual and
cne nation. In order for man to store
jp and lay by, to gain advancement
either in honor or material things, it
is necessary that he take some fore
cnought ol the morrow, but just so
soon as he carries this beyond the nor
mal point the mental prpcess becomes
an exaggerated and abnormal one.
The normal protective instinct is
stimulated by a normal fear of those
events which are reasonably sure to
happen in the future unless means are
adopted against them. The moment
that this fear becomes abnormal and
to no good purpose because it results
in worry. This worry continues long
after the' necessity for the normal
stimulus of fear has passed, with the
result that there is an impairment in
mental power and a dissipation of the
nervous torces. in otner woras, tne
mental engine has been "running idle"
and at the same time delivering no
propulsive power. In fact, worry is
an abnormal state
Not all worrv is preventable but
for the most nart it can be avoided
Most of our fears are never realized,
and as a rule, if we meet our troubles
dav bv day as they come without wor-
rvine about them before they arrive
or fretting over them after they have
passed, ve will find that we have the
"Extracts From Annual Address of Master of "Ohio
State Grange Showing Attitude, of. Grange
Leaders Toward Govermental Policies
and State Legislation
MRS JOSEPH KELLY DEAD
Mrs. Joseph Kelley died on Christ
mas morning at the home of her bro
ther, Add Kimerer, on North Fulton
street. Mrs. Kelley was a kind lov
ing mother and bore her long suffer
ing with Christian patience. She was
a devoted and a faithful Christian
woman. Funeral services were con
ducted Wednesday morning at 10
o'clock by Rev. Moffet, assisted by
Rev. Wharton at the Christian church
burial at the Tedrow cemetery.
PRAYER WEEK )
Dean Edward Increase Bosworth of
the Oberlin Graduate School of Theo
logy will open the week of prayer ser
vice at the Congregational church on
Sunday evening January 7th. Dr.
Bosworth has a national reputation as
a New Testament scholar, and his in
fluence among Y. M. C. A. leaders and
foreign missionary men is very great.
The subject of his address will be
"Prayer". A cordial welcome is ex
tended to all. .
strength to rise above them. Worry
undermines the health to a certain ex
tent It really . weakens the mental
forces by tiring them out by doing
nothing. Usuallv the relief from
worry rests with the victim ot this un
happy habit himself, but sometimes
the real causes are not the ones which
seem to explain the condition and we
must go deep into our lives or have
the assistance of those who are skill
ed in unraveling mental processes.
The best antidote for worry is a
change of mental occupation, a getting
away from the scenes which provoke
worry, exercise in the open air, a
good book, a pleasant recreation, or
a temporary change of occupation. As
n. matter of mental health every suf
ferer from this unfortunate condition
owes it to himself to discover some
:nple means of getting away from
this habit which is destructive to
health and peace of mind alike.
REVIVAL MEETINGS
Rev. C. J. Yersley of Montpelier, O.,
who is coming to Wauseon January 1,
to begin a series of revival meetings
in the Methodist church is a sweet
spirited consecrated young man and
no doubt through his weeks of earn
est effort will bring great blessing to
our town. The absent man will be
the loser. '
INSTALLATION
Wauseon Lodge No. 156 K. of P.
will hold their semi-annual . installs
tion of officers on Tuesday evening
January 2nd. Lodge opens promptly
at 7:30.
HERMAN CASE, C. C.
SOME HUSTLING
The force at the Post Office have
been doing some tall hustling during
the first part of this week.
Owing to the general storm over
the country last week and the conse
quent tying up of railway traffic the
mails have been badly congested at
certain points while other points fail
ed to receive mail at all; Wauseon was
in the latter class until last Sunday
and Monday when the "boom" broke
and one I undred and forty-four sacks
of parcel post matter not to mention
twenty-one .pouches ot letter mail
were deposited in the Wauseon Post !
Office and the "force" had literally j
to dig their way into the office on
Tuesday morning, but everybody
worked, even the r. JM. and by lues
day afternoon the congestion was re
duced to normal
Through the courtesy of Mr. E. P.
Ames we tiave received a copy of
the annual address of the Master of
the State Grange. This address is un
usually interesting at this time as re
flecting the attitude of the Grangers of
the state toward political issues, Gov
ermental policies and State Legisla
tion; for this reason we are publish
ing herewith extracts from this ad
dress. '
Under the head of "co-operation"
the Master said in part:
As the Grange increases in mem
bership, it must also increase in effi
ciency of all departments of its
work. This is especially true of- the
business side of the Grange. We
should be able to make the trade ar
rangements moi-e satisfactory and
more attractive, as the purchasing
power oi tne organization increases.
We must turn our attention more in
the direction of co-operative sell,
ing than buying. The idea of allow
ing someone eise to name the con
ditions, the grade, the price and the
date of payment for farm produce is
as much out of date or rather,
snouia De, as tne sicKle and nail.
ine xarmer aoes not Delieve in
strikes unless they are absolutely
unavoiaaDie; we Deneve tne princi
ples ot arbitration should always be
used in settling difficulties between
sellers and purchasers, whether it be
in the form of capital and labor, or
in the lorm. of tarm produce and the
organized purchasers thereof. The
farmer has learned that when condi
tions have become intolerable, in the
absence of laws compelling arbitra
tion, strikes are inevitable. The re
cent milk strikes at Chicago, and
other points, open up a new era for
agriculture. The organization of
milk producers' associations, the in
troduction of principles of collective
bargaining, can bring to the dairy
farmer a fair share of the fruits of
his labor. , . ,
we ail recognize that there . is
something more important in farm'
ing than dollars; yet, unless we can
make farming mora, remunerative in
the coming years than we have in
the past, we will fail to hold the
right type of our young manhood and
womanhood on the farm.
Food Embargo.
, One of the most foolish and short'
si vited measures recently, proposed,
is an embargo on food stuff. The
larmer is broad-minded and fair,
ne will .not object at all if the needs
of America demand it, provided, at
the same time, the embargo is placed
on every line of manufacture, especi
ally munitions of war. The tanner ;
-vill take his chances alongwith the
rest, but it is unfair- and sn-Ameri
can to deny the farmer markets that
others enjoy, and yet force him to
buy on a market that is simulated by
orders from abroad. An - embargo
bill on food "stuffs would defeat the
very purpose for which it was creat
ed, by discouraging agricultural pro
duction in the future. The bill is so
unf air that it has not a possibility of
passing. . The farmers demand a
complete embargo or none at all.
The High Cost of Living.
We hear much these days about
this subject by people who, it would
appear to the actual producer, know
less about it than anything else, ine
increased cost of food stuffs i6 but
the logical result of natural causes
and present day tendencies. With
the exception of those articles af
fected by cold storage,1 car short
age or crop failure, the ' increased
cost of food stuffs is no greater, in
fact, not as great an increase, as can
be noted ,in manufactured articles,
The public seems to forget that the
shortening of the hours oi laDor, tne
demand for larger margins of profits,
can have but one result, that' of di
verting capital and labor from the
farm. Then, again, with an increas
ed intelligence, the self-respecting
farmer is refusing to work for a less
wage or to wort longer hours . than
those in other callings. As labor
shortens the hours of work, and as
manufacturers demand still larger
profits, the farmer has no choice,
he must secure higher prices or go
into bankruptcy.
The consumine public had lust - as
well adiust itself to the fact that
very cheap food supplies nave gone
by forever. There is no use to-blame
the farmer; he is farming about as
well as he can afford to farm. To
those who do not believe it, we say,
"There are millions of acres of
farm land for sale; come out and try
for yourself." . ' u
A State Department of Markets r
Ohio needs a Commissioner of Mar
kets and Marketing: the department
could be added either to the work of
the present Department of Agricul
ture, or created as a separate bureau.
The Commissioner of Markets in New
York has rendered a great service to
both producer and consumer, and we
believe that he could do the same in
Ohio. "'
Our Agricultural Activities
It must be remembered that too
frequent interruption of method will
work a positive injury to all agricul
tural work. The work of Director
Thorne and the Ohio Experiment
Station is a monument to Ohio,
yet many , times during the- last
decade, the politicians .have turned
greedy eyes in his direction and tried ,
to secure, his removal.' This is men
tioned here only to show that the
farmer is right in insisting that par
tisan politics shall have absolutely
no place m the agricultural activities
of Ohio, as they touch so vitally the
prosperity, the health, the happiness,
the very life of our commonwealth.
Farmers On All Boards
Agriculture, in proportion to the
number engaged , or the amount in
vested, is. by lar the most important
of the industries of the . State, The
uiauge is ngiit in iia contention tnat
farmers should have a large repre
sentation on all Boards and Commis
sions that deal with rural life. We
demand for ..all executive positions,
pertaining to agriculture, ; the ap
pointment, of men who have been ac
tively identified .with-farm life.
lemperance. .
For thousands of ' vears. tVia
world's best-thinkers have looked np.
on portable alcohol as - one of , the
greatest enemies of the human fami
ly. For generations in this country.
Christian people have- recognized
that the saloon' was a moral wrong,
and an economic waste, . ' but little
progress had been made toward its
destruction until the -present gener- .
ation. ' We have been brought face to
face with the .fact . that the saloon
must go or our Republican form of
government, must . perish. - -High, li
cense, low license, and regulation have
all oeen tried, but it has made little
difference; the liquor business has
continually injected itself in politics
and planted itself in front of every
rexorra attempted. The very nature
of the busness is such that -effective
regulation and control is impossible.
The American people have found that
there is no way we cam take the sa
loon out of politics, so in desperation,
have determined to destroy the saloon.
The attitude of the National and
State Granges on - this suggestion is
consistent; both have declared" for
temperance reform and local option.
;- Game Laws.
The question is of ten asked, "Why .
the antagonism between the farmer
and the sportsman?" We might ans
wer. "There would be no -antagon- -ism
if all hunters were real sports
men." In a state like Ohio, with no
public lands, the farmer, naturally
and rightfully, feels that there is no
public game. However it is the law
less hunter that is largely responsi
ble for this feeling.
Education.
The Grange has ever championed
the cause of rural education; our rec
ord has been one of consistent pro
gress both as relates to the country
school . and our agricultural college.
We must not forget that records
shw that about 95 per cent, of the
ooys ana gins mat enter our country
schools never graduate from college.
The first great interest of the Grange
then must, be in. favor of the 95 per
cent, rather than the 5 per cent.
Our best educators seem to agree
that the workings of our school code-
have definitely improved the .rural -schools
of Ohio. In most sections of
the State, with the exception of minor
details, the law seems to be giving
satisfaction. The one complaint
seems to be that. some of the commu
nities feel that district supervision
is unnecessary, while others report
that it has been a great assistance in
securing uniformity and efficiency. .
A careful survey of the school situa
tion in the State would seem to in
dicate that the trouble is not in , the
compulsory supervision but - in the
character and ability of some of : the
district supervisors employed. When
the code went into effect, there were
not a sufficient number of , men
trained and developed for this work.
Would it not be the part of wisdom
to give supervision, as now provided
for, a more thorough, trial? A great
organization, like ours, cannot af
ford to take a backward step in mat
ters relating to education. Stinginess
toward the support of our public
schools is but another .name for plac
ing a mortgage on the future.
' ROAD IMPROVEMENT
Since the organization of ; the
Grange, it has recognized that road
improvement and rural progress .go
hand in hand. We have long advo
cated Federal aid in road-building,
and rejoice - at , the passage of the .
Shackelford Bill, which appropriates
from the National Treasury f 2,900,
000.00 for use in Ohio; during the
next five years. We recommend that
the next General Assembly enact leg
islation providing means and methods
of co-operation between the adminis
trative authorities of the State and
Nation to conform to recent . Federal
legislation so as to insure the great
est degree of benefit to our State.
Civil Service.
The people of Ohio, by Constitution
al decree, have declared for honesty
and efficiency in all departments of
government through the medium of
Civil Service. They recognize that ef
ficiency and economy can only be
brought about by the substitution of
the Merit System for the Spoils Sys
tem in the administration of public af
fairs. Civil Service, like direct prima
ries, the non-partisan judiciary, and
(Continued on page ten)
Good for Constipation.
Chamberlain's Tablets are excell
ent for constipation They are pleas
ant to take and mild and gentle in ef
fect. Obtainable everywhere-
LECTURE COURSE
Galen Starr Ross will give his lec
ture on "Life in the U. S. Navy" at
Chesterfield Centralized School, Sat.
urday evening December 30th. This
is the second number of the regular
course. Hear this discussion of up-to-date
interesting topics. Single ad
mission 35c
19 1 7 Greetings
May you enjoy a Happy, Healthy and Pros
perous New Year. Permit us to thank
you for your kind support and patronage,and
accept bur resolve to always cater to your
desires in a manner most pleasing and satis
factory. Fink & Haumesser
