Fik
:jv:v -.'? r- .
'.r-L-
v J, OfWCUiCmCAN Of THE, REPUBLICAN ;MTY 4 JCNOK COUNTY
,.
Kfw Scrtri'VotiVB,. 9.
.BAlUIOtJllVILLE, KY., FRIDAY. DECEMBER 29; 191C.
$1.00 fee Teat In Advance
Mi I' i ' ' tin ii 1
. ' J . j ' ,- U;,
WHAT ARE TIf E STRONG
POINTS JOF A BANK ?
By J. M. RobsiGNk President
First National Bank of Barbourville, Kentucky.
t
UJVtoJTf. S . " M ' T r . .
"" r manui
TSS TT to-lj " r : - r- I I -.,,,
. p' ' fc HON M.G. HIGITE '
t1V lla''Vnn ITnAW fn..,.
.IU. UfcCSWA uawA VUUUlJl
r J am uemg encouraged Dy a good manj ,eopie to enter the .race
,fr..County Attorney, most of yoa know me
:vT)rivate and public life
jjMHIce financially aa I am making more m
'.sMwrney'a office will pay, bat when 1 realiz
in debt about a quarter of a million doW i am aroused- to a
S'xMeD feelinnr of duty and resDonsibilitv. Tl
-S?-,The credit and good name of the county mi
Ka&tw'fc guess off your next set of officer
- ferd to select any man to give him honor oi
?&xl these debts are ever paid, you will have
X jtde slowly and be sure you act wisely in s
id are acnuainted with
If 1 enter this") ce, rwlTTdolo af a
iey than the County
that Knox County is
be debts must be paid.
t be sustained. You
neither can you af-
provide his bread.
think seriously, de-
' ectine your countv of-
S? '.'icers. It well take the best men you can et, they will have to
fat forth their best efforts, and still the co jty will be loaded to
Ito capacity. The County Attorneys office u Verv imoortant If
rVyou thin I am the man, you can let me krlw. There is plenty of
i-lMne to consider. i
Very respd.fuiiyt
PWMffgssssgyssssiytiTffiWffsyyfffffc
1 G. HIGNITE.
;To
The Citizens
'" , of Knox County.
4 . -
nnoucement of my can-
cy-for the Republican nom-
tionrfof the office of County
rney, which appeared in the
itain, Advocate of the 22nd
December 1916, was the
'of encouragement of solic-
fttom a great many dtizenB
wpayors of the county and
rty.frotn my own desire, for,
tunity, to render service to
pie of the county.
f not unmindful of the re.
lilies devolving upon the
i of this office. This ia
important of any office.
i,the people, in general,
yers, in particular,
dally, 'will it be so, for
,or which your next
ktitotney will be elected.
Attorney imkt be
representauve. ana
aHflawabkHngoiti-
NiteOunty, in crkni-
Wfili.-tlR.BWBt
tal 'adviaer of all the
roffieeraof thewwty.
rtbat official utyk
hMrformed- by :'NMty
i;ii rwuir'ie
mtiafa- ta
Lylgila&tlxgwMi
ipayfa;ia ;ajj
; totirt ajMlaat
member J,f the Fiscal Court keep
strictly Jthin the provisions of
the law I the fispfil flnta of
the courl if i shall be elected
to. thiB rice jt is my purpose to
devote ly time and energies
concienVtjsiy and industeriously
toa.llt)lfe duties. And especi
& SM it be my airafb protect
the tax burdened people of the
county. J isan endeavor to aa-
members of tho Fiscal
adopt and operate a
f handling and dispoa-
e funds of the county
that each member of the
d any citizen or taxpay-
county may know, at
lall times, where and how
as to the county funds.
h a plan as will clear up
prable state of the fiscal
f the county, I am con-
hat much of the compli
the fiscal affairs of the
I due to. the absence of
em, and I am also con
iat a practical plan
can be idbpted and enforaed
which U result in the member
of the trt having before tliem
at all t , 33 the amount of claims
aJloweV nd the amount of taxes
out of which to pay
And it is easy to
Ivith these facts before
ibffinto see-we need
i the handling of eur
d that ultb4t4if we
MMd.aei'i
sistthe
Court ti
system
ing of t
inawa1
court, r
er of tr
any ani
westai
And su
thedep
affairs
vinced
cation S
county
tuch sy
indent.
rieeiv
W$
refor'
f-
a"
' . mi
fi)tf jijM&iiL -,Wfr
I We. are often asked the question by persons not engaged in the
Banking business as to how they may know whether or not a bank
isa strdtig, safe, bank. This question ;df ten occured to us before
iwe were connected with the banking business.
v Every person," whether 'rich or poor, who makes a deposit tn a
bank wants to feel sure that! he is putting his money in a strong",
and safe'institution,, and jp a place: Where he can get his money-at
any time he may desire. He feels that it is not safe to keep his
money on his person or about his house and puts it into the bank
for protection and safety.. Now how may he know that the batik
of his selection is1 a safe place for his mpnoy ?
Every citizen of the community is interested in the banks of
thecommunity being perfectly safe. While the stock of a bank!
is held and owned by private individuals, a banking institution is in
the nature of a public institution. A bank cannot fail without do
ing incalculable injury, not only to its stockholders and depositors,
but to the whole community. It therefore stands every citizen of
a community in hand to help make the banks safe.
Nearly all nations that have fallen in the centuries past and
gone, have been destroyed by internal foes, and not by enemy na
tions. This is true of banks. The failure of most banks is due to
their inside workings and management and not to outside influences
We would therefore say that the first and strongest points in favor of
the safety of a bank is to have sober, experienced and careful men
at the head of 'it, and men who have, made a' success 'of their, own
private affairs. Men who are living within theirincome and get
ting ahead in the world.
Second: One of tne most fruitful sources for the failure of
banks from our observation in the past has been the "overdraft".
What we call "overdraft", is for a bank to pay a check drawn on
it by a person who has not money in the bank to meet it. For in
stance Mr. Brown has no money in the bank, he gives checks on
the bank, and the bank pays these checks. There is no money in
any-baok and no fund in any,bank.with whictu-to pay, an "over
draft." When a bank pays an overdraft it must pay it out of the
other depositor's money. Anyone can see that is not fair. If Mr.
Brown has no money in the bank in the first place he should not
give checks on the bank, and if he does give checks
and if he does give checks it is not fair to Mr. Jones and other per
sons who do have money in the bank, for the bank to pay Mr.
Brown's checks out of Mr. Jones, and other depositor's money. If
you have ten thousand dollars in the bank, it is your money, and
the bank should be managed so that you can get your money at any
time, and so that no other person' can get any part of your money.
You can readily see how a bank can fail by paying out money to
people when they do not have money in the bank. The overdraft
has caused so many banks to fail that the largest as well as the
smallest well managed banks of the United States have entirely
eliminated the overdraft, and the United States Government which
has supervision of all National Banks, recognize the great danger
in the "overdraft" and about two years ago the Treasury Depart
ment ordered all National Banks of the United States to cut out
the "overdraft", and any National Bank that now pays an over
draft does so in direct violation of the orders of the Treasury de
partment and the lays of the United States. The United States
Courts have held that the payment of an overdraft by a bank is a
misapplication of the funds of a bank.
You can readily see this. You know that the fellow who has
no, money in the bank has no right to have his checks paid out of
money which you have deposited in the bank. The First National
Bank of Barbourville will do all ,it possibly can to accomodate its
friends and costomers, and to aid the legitimate business and in
erprisesof the community, but it has eliminated the "overdraft."
Its management desires to operate the First National Bank within
the law, and so as to remove any element of danger to its depositors
and make" it perfectly-safe, so that every man who has a dollar in
the Bank, ean get his dollar or dollars, at any time'he wants them,
and so that the fellow who has no money in the bank cannot get
the money out of the other fellows'. Any careful banker will ad
vise you that the overdraft is as element of danger in the bank, and
that for a bank to eliminate the overdraft argues strongly for its
safety, and it is one of the strongest points by which you can
determine thit a bank is safe. We have not eliminated the over
draft because we desire to be harsh to any of our customers or
friends. Often good men overcheck by mistake. By the new
posting machine installed by this bank, any person can at any time
learn the amount of the balance that he has in the bank. Many
other banks have adopted the same system. If it were for the
best interest of the community and the bank to pay overdrafts, we
wouW do so, but we know that it i3 a violation of law, and not to
the beet interest of the community, or the bank to do this. Wo
have in the past so managed the First' National Bank that every
inan who has had a dollar in the bank whether in good times or
hard times could get his money at any time he wanted it, and we
expect to maintain this policy in-the future. You can rest assured
that no person other than yourself, can check out or draw put tho
money you have intrusted with us. -.- -f
raere are some several omer points to te considered, in de
termining the safety of abanking institution, and these we will
lake up and dUcusa igiltxt, week's issue of, the Mountain Advo-
' READ P. BLACK
To the Republicans of Knox County:
I am a candidate for the office of Sheriff subjectto the wilt of the
people as expressed through the Republican Primary next Aug. 4,
1917.
Since early boyhood it has been my ambition to fill the offict
of Sheriff of my county, and this; opportunity for my friends to thui
honor me will be given them before the next regular county pri
mary election for Republican nominations for county offices.
The only speech that I have to make isthat I stand upon my
public record as an official and my private record as a friend to
man, and whether in office or out of office I shall ever be found
ready to help those who need help, to comfort those who need com
fort. Nominate and elect me Sheriff and you will never have just
cause to regret it.
' READ P. BLACK.
Notice For Bids
Road Building
By order of the' Knox County
Fiscal Court of December 16fH,
1916, bids will be received, open
ed and considered, on January
6th, 1917, for the grading earth
crowned roads only, from the
fork of road near cemetery to the
river bridge above Artemus, Ky. ;
from the fork of road at old Flat
Lick, to the mouth of Road Fork
of Stinking Creek; from the cor
porate limits of Barbourville, JKy.
to the mouth of Helton Fork on
Indian Creek, about fifteen miles
in all.
Certified checks of $400 must
accompany bids as pledge of good
faith of bidder.
Read P. Black, Clerk, K. C. C.
12-29-3t. Barbourville. Ky.
Efficiency In Cam
paign Management
Presumably, .Wl in reality,
members of the national commit
tee are selcted because tney are
recognized as men of demonstrat
ed party loyalty and political
judgment. At their head they
need and should have a man of not
only deep seated convictions upon
party principles but of such gen
eral executive ability and political
experience as will assure his sue
cess as a campaign manager. In
the selection of a chairman, there
can be no more competent author
ity than the committeemen them
selves. It is to b'e hoped that here-V
after they will perform that duty
and relieve the country of the con
sequences of bad campaign management.
;.;
ill
;
5SSffi:!Sffi.HKMKSff5
v?.:sri
(!)
H. B. CLARK, OihUr
V. R. LAY, Actinf Pmldent
$
(i
E!)i
I
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF JOHN A. BLACK.
ia
u
ARoll of Honor Bank"
Capital and Surplus Morc.Than $65,000.00
Cash 'Reserve, $120,144.34
"Stockholders Worth More Than $2,500,000.00
A checking account with thift institution gives
you a standing in your community.
A saving account with it earns money for you
while you sleep.
Safty Boxes for rent at $1.50 per year.
3o Interest Paid On Time Deposits,
,
jr. :
i..-jVl'm f ..,..' .!'". . J:
.....-- -,.L' t.K'-VSi , ,,d',T. ....... 4"V.LvijL' AkU.. . ii .... . i.,. J!flE.&i.
I
''m
v..
S3iv.i
hujw , MjjiMOti td JMijkSnLijJretTW torftf hfr titty T'Tli'i.f lf THIwu wBSAtXiVinBr AUk4BcPEWHbmU&ES
