The Echo ha* a
tiding circulation
or over 4,000 per
dons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad- X
vertiK and increase
your Dusinesa.
Vol. 13. No. 52
To All Our Readers We Wish a Prosperous
llßg^HSiH^Mwr v:LKK-vl''-f JI A" y-^*^l» g|'^y-'^i^r^ii.k!;^/gvtj.',i;j ; yu| l !^'-* iaj-i» r^^ral v^^^. rrf''aiy 'aa U¥ia taßk':*'Mm'a^"^ . [EEJwI ti^-^ii w*^i«fiT.asyyaiiitirtP
MR. POnER'S PROTEST
RECEIVES A HEARING
Council Refuses to Declare Election Null
and Void or to Declare Him Mayor
--Other Matters of Interest
The* present city council held its
last business meeting Tuesday even
ing with the following in attendance:
Featherstone, Hale, Kugelman, Miller,
Snyder, Reynolds, Mayor Day, City At
torney Nelson and Clerk Brown. Mr.
Seeley was the only absentee. There
will be another meeting but this will
be only for the purpose of ushering in
the new administration.
The minutes of the previous meet
ing were read and approved and the
following bills were allowed and or
dered paid.
J. F. Pratt, snow plowing ...t 3.20
Leav. State Bank 1.75
Rainer Cafe, meals 6.00
Fred Cahill, wood -. 13.00
Henry Saver, wood & snow
plowing 10.00
Firemen, Daly fire 14.50
Cash, postage, express etc... 2.55
H. F. Ogden, labor at intake. 70.00
W. F. Whitney, expenses in
water suit - 75.90
Otto A. Weile, Eng 244.93
Chas. Wallace, livery 8.50
City Employes, salary for Dec. 420.00
Total $870.33
A communication from Mr. Whitney,
attorney in the water system suit, was
read and ordered placed on file. He
stated that he felt more confident than
ever of the favorable outcome of fhe
suit. Let us hope his confidence is
not misplaced.
The protest of S. A. Potter against
W. L. Hale being declared elected
mayor was read and discussed at
some length. Its first contention was
that one of the judges in the Third
ward was not on duty until eleven
o'clock. This referred to Art Frank
lin, who when questioned by the coun
cil admitted that he was late, but ihat
it was only 9:30 when he took his
place on the election board. He also
stated that only five votes were cast
before he appeared, three of them be
ing cast by members of the board.
The next claim na that stickers
were found in the ballot box in the
Third ward that must have come off
the ballots and which should have
been counted for S. A Potter. Mrs.
Eickmeyer, who was one of the board,
and who was present at the council
meeting, said that after the ballots
were all counted the ballot box was
turned upside down and that there
were no stickers there.
In addition to the original protest
Mr. Potter presented the names of
eight voters whom he claims voted in
the wrong ward. Council took the
view that the eight voters were en
titled to a vote somewhere and that the
results would have been the same if
they had voted in their own ward..
He also claimed that several who
would have voted for him were denied
the right to cast their ballots. As near
as could be learned just one qualified
voter lost his vote and that was be
came he was forced to catch his train
before the board had satisfied them
selves that he was qualified.
At none ol the charge* made indi
cated any evidence of fraud council
concluded tht reaaoni sat fcrth were
XLhc Xeavenwortb Bcbo
not sufficient for declaring the election
void. A motion was made to refuse
any further hearing on the contest. It
carried unanimously.
A report from Fire Chief Daly was
read and placed on file.
The report of Police Judge Graham
was read and shows that $1291.00 in
fines have been collected since the
first of the year.
Ordinance 178, which offers a re
ward in bootlegging and gambling
cases, was given its third reading and
was approved by a unanimous vote.
It was passed to the mayor for his sig
nature,.who failed to sign and still has
it under consideration.
The ordinance passed at the privious
meeting, requiring a permit for the pur
chase and sale of alcohol was signed
by the mayor and will be in effect after
the first of the year.
W. L. Hale, mayor-elect, tendered
his resignation as councilman of the
First ward, to take effect at the close
of the meetine. It was accepted.
Clerk Brown was instructed to write
to H. T. Graves, Acting Commissioner
of Agriculture, who issued the order
against unmuzzled dogs running at
large, and get further information. It
is the intention of the authorities to
carry out the order against dogs to the
letter and the dog population of this
city will dwindle considerable in the
next week or two.
A petition was presented suggesting
the name of Tbeo. Ersch to succeed
Mr. Hale as councilman in First ward.
Matter was laid over until next meet
ing.
The clerk was instructed to notify
the agents and owner of the property
on Front street, we.t of the bank, that
it was unsafe and that the city will hold
them accountable for any damages oc
casioned by a collapse of the building.
This wound up the business of the
evening and council adjourned.
LAMB-DAVIS LUMBER CO.
WILL DO BUSINESS SOON
General Manager Now on the Coast—
Everything Points to Action After
Turn of Year
Mr. Geo. L. Gardner, generel mana
ger of the big lumber company is on
the coast. With a view of making
good the statement recently printed in
this paper he is making ten
tative arrangements with machinery
supyly houses about the new locomo
tives and cars that will be required by
the company to carry out its announced
plans of running the mill night and
day the coming summer. Two addi
tional engines and between fifty and
onne hundred cars ot all kinds will be
required in the operation of the Wenat
chee Valley Northern railway. All
arrangements are being made to begin
active operations in the woods at early
as weather conditions will permit the
economical conduct of logging. All
the late methods of logging will be
employed. Instead of horse drawn
! logging wagons motor trucks will be
I employed. These trucks will also be
; used about the yard in moving lumber.
Those who have made a study of the
diSerence in the cost of horse feed and
gasoline have decided in favor of gaso
line.
When Mr. Gardner returns some defi
nite information in regard to the future
activities of the company will in all
I probability be given out.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, December 29, 1916
FEDERAL REGULATION Of
RAILROADS NECESSARY
Railroad Regulation by 58 States is
About the Craziest Thing Ever-
Read the Record
"RailTOid legislation" is always a
live topic and railroads are an absolute
necessity to the rapid industrial develop
ment of the west. From this standpoint
the following paragraphs are worth
reading to gain an idea of why the
railroads are unable at this time to
adequately serve the public; why less
new railroads is being built than tor the
last fifty years; why Congress finally
decided to investigate the whole sub
ject of railroad regulation with a view
to improving existing conditions and
why it seems necessary to put an end
to dual regulation by the states and
federal government and place regulation
of the railroads exclusively in the hands
of the federal government.
IS states, by prescribing a minimum
movement for freight cars, or by
imposing heavy penalties for delays,
attempt to favor State traffic. 20 states,
regulate hours of railway service, the
variations running from 10 to 16 hours
a day. 28 states specify headlight
requirements without an approach to
uniformity. 14 states have dissimilar
safety appliance acts.
In 41 states in 1909, 664 new laws
affecting railroads were enacted. In 40
states in 1911, new railroad laws
totalled 276. Between 1912 and 1915.
upward of 4,000 bills affecting railroads
were introduced into Congress and our
several states legislatures, of which 440
have become laws.
20 states have passed "stuffed-crew"
laws. 21 states, however, refused to
enact such a law. 9 attempts in 6
years have been made to secure Federal
approval for such a law, but without
success. The Missouri legislature
passed a "stuffed-crew" law, but on a
referendum to the voters of the state,
the law was rejected by a vote of 324,
085 to 159, 593. "stuffed-crew" bills
were vetoed by Governors Foss of
Massachusetts, Cruce of Oklahoma,
Hughes and Dix of New York and
Governor Harmon of Ohio.
In the fiscal year 1914, 166 railroads,
operating 204,610 miles, reported an
expense of $4,051,533 for compliance
with "stuffed-crew" legislation. This
amount equals a return of 5 per cent
on 980,000,000 of capital. These
companies reported a total expense ol
$28,703,983 in consequence of
legislation regulating operation, equiv
alent to decreasing their basis of credit
$570,000,000.
Railroad statutes in lorce in New
York, to the end of 1906, make up an
octavo volume of 782 pages and in
Pennsylvania, to the end of 1907,
more than 700 octavo pages. One state
requires cuspidors in passenger cars.
An adjacent stale prohibits this
practice. This state is traversed by
carriers passing through the "cuspidor"
state: One state requires screens in the
windows of passenger cars, and these
cars traverse a neighboring state where
screens are forbidden.
19 state have legally asserted their
right to control bond and stock issues
oi railroads operating within their limits
and, doubtless, this number will in-
crease, In. 1913 the Arizona Corpor-
at ion Commission, by withholding
approval for an intended sale of 2-year
i note by the Southern Pacific, left that
| company no alternative but to issue 1-
I year notes, the result of this change in
I plans being a loss of 8275,000 to the
Southern Pacific. The Railroad
Commissions of Kansas and Texas up
on occasion have made their approval
of certain railroad security issues con-'
tingent upon the expenditure of a fixed
proportion of the proceeds within their
respective borders. |Recently, the New
York Central —which has only a total
right-of-way in Illinois of 142 miles,
although it operates 6,034 miles of first
track was taxed 8600,000 by the state
of Illinois as a condition precedent to
its approval of an intended financing.
During a recent hearing before the <
Senate Committee on Interstate'
Commerce, in the Shepard bill to
abolish the doctrine of the Shreveport
case, the question of state discrimi
nations was emphasized. While
Louisiana was protesting against this
bill, telegrams of protest from St. Louis
and Kansas City commercial bodies
were received and read. St. Louis
contended that the Shepard bill would
permit Illinois to exclude St. Louis
from the commerce of that State;
Kansas City claimed that it would be
excluded from the markets of Kansas
and Oklohoma. A Tennessee congress
man appeared and protested that the
bill would enable Arkanasa to exclude
Memphis from its markets. And while
Louisiana was protesting the exclusion
of its business men from Louisania'
markets. While the Virginia Com
mission was complaining before the
Interestate Commerce Commission
against North Carolina for discrimiating
rates, its chairman, Judge Prentice was
favoring the adoption of the Sheoard
bill before the Senate Committee
referred to.
2,991,776 reports of all kinds were
filed with Federal, State and other
authorities during the year ended June
30, 1915. The Preparation of these
reports cost the carriers many millions
of dollars.
Unmuzzled Dogs Should Be Destroyed
There are some fifty or more dogs
in this town that have not been muzzled
as required by law and that officers are
under obligations to destroy in the dis
charge of their duty. The state health
authorities have declared the prevalence
of rabies is a menace to public health
and to prevent the spread as well as to
minimise the danger of being bitten by
a mad dog all dogs must be muzzled
and if not muzzled are subject to be
shot.
Weather Observer McKeown says
the thermometer indicated a degree
of cold Thursday morning three
degrees below zero. On the south side
of the river residents tell how the
thermometer indicated eight below.
This was the first real zero weather we
have had so far this winter. Tho the
thermometer hovered around ten above
for the past six weeks.
Dr. Elmer reports Grandpa Wright,
now 78 years old, who has been some
what ailing the past few weeks is
recovering and considered out of
danger.
Dr. Judah reports the grip situation,
which lor the past few weeks has been
complicated and many Levenworth
people were reported in its toils, as j
übsiding somewhat. '
PUBLIC SERVICES HEARING
OLYMPIA, IAN. 11,1917
Tod Difference Between Pacific Sta.es
Co. and Other Companies Will Be
Investigated
Many complaints have been made to
the State Public Service Commission
' the past year about the toll charges
where messages have to go over
coene cting lines. We have had
some trouble here growing- out of
the toll charges when messages go
i over the Pacific States line which
connects with the Leavenworth Co.
I and with the Farmers Company at
Peshastin. It has caused some annoy
ance to Leavenworth business men and
the ranchers around Peshasti but just
where the trouble lies we have never
had explained. Following is the circular
sent out by the commission. If our
own matter could be adjusted in some
way so that free communication be
tween Leavenworth and the residents
,of the Peshastin country might be
arranged it would result in Leavenworth
business men doing more business with
the lanchers of the lower valley:
Office Public Service Commission
Olympia, Dec, 1916.
In view of the number of complaints,
some of them of a pressing nature, re
ceived by this Commission from so
called Farmer Line Companies, regard
ing the division of toll revenues be
! tween these companies and the Pacific
Telephone & Telegraph Company, and
that similar disputes exist between
other telephone companies having
mutual relations, and in view of the
further fact that schedules of rates now
exist between the so-called Farmer
Companies and tiie Pacific Telephone
& Telegraph Company, there being a
sliding scale ranging from 83.00 to
815.00 arranged in ten steps, depend
ing upon the number of stations
connected, which must result in
schedules frequently changing, which
schedules have for some time been in
abeyance and need investigatiou.
Now, therefore, a conference will be
held in Olympia, at eleven A. M. on
the lltbday of January, 1917, between
the Commission and all interested
parties, and their representatives.
Thii Commission will be pleased at
such conference to hear all such per
sons personally, or by counsel, com
mittee, or other representatives, and
also to consider all such communications
as those interested may present
concerning the relationship between
the telephone companies operating in
this state relatives to tolls, exchange
and switching service and connections.
Yours truly,
The Public Service Commission of
Washington.
E. F. Blame, Chairman.
Orville Headly and Ellen Arbogast,
both of Peshastin, were married last
Saturday, stealing a march on their
friends. The Wedding had been fixed
for Christmas day. In securing his
license young Headley stated that they
wanted to make their get-away before
anybody knew aboat their marriage.
The railroad up the Methow valley
from Pateros, on the Columbia river,
is practically assured. The methow is
a rich valley Rich in minerals and
agricultural lands, many of which are
highly developed.
Our Joh Printing
department is com
plete. If you -want
High Claw printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
Miss Ariine Farmer Married in Seattle
Miss Ariine Farmer, was married in
Seattle Dec. 23d, to Mr. Graves,
formerly of Chelan, Wash., but for
several years living in Alaska where he
is interested in mining. Miss Farmer
will be remembered by many old timers
as having lived here with her mother,
Mrs. M. Farmer, who was principal of
the public school several terms. For
the past eight or ten years Mrs.
Farmer and her daughter have made
their home on the coast.
FARM LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
ORGANIZED IN CHELAN CO.
Ffforts Under Way to Organize In
Wenatchee, Cashmere, Peshastin
and Other Points
The new farm loac banks provided
for by the present congress expect to
be ready for business shortly after the
first of the year. The people of Spokane
hope to secure one of the district
banks. This has, however, not been
settled. In the meantime the first steps
are being taken to organize farm loan
associations. Farmers are meeting to
geiher to study the plans and
familiarize them selves with the
details so that as soon as the
government is ready to open the dis
trict banks the associations will be
ready to perfect their loan organizations.
The ranchers of east Wenatchee
have held several meetings. Farmers
in the vicinity of Cashmere have also
had several meetings with a view to
perfecting an organization. There has
also been talk of organizing a loan
association among the ranchers in the
vicinity of Peshastin.
After the above was put in type the
information was given out that Spokane
had secured the location of the
regional farm loan bank for the north
west, composed of the states of
Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and
Montana, and will be known as Rigional
Bank No. 12. The bank will be
established as soon as suitable quarters
can be secured and a corps of employes
selected. Over 6000 applications have
been filed for positions. Already
applications have been coming in by
the hundreds from people living in the
Spokane district for farm loans, and it
is believed an enormous business will
be done.
Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Matthews and
Mrs. Matthews sister, Mrs. Blacker,
returned from Sedro Woolly Thursday,
where they were called last week by
the death of Gianvilie Hancock, the
19 year old brother of Mrs. Matthews
and Mrs. Blacker. Hancock was em
ployed in a logging camp near Sedro
Woolly and was crushed between two
lags, dying four hours afterwards. The
funeral was delayed until Wednesday
waiting the arrival of the young man's
mother from Montana.
The Bellingham basket ball agrega
tion left od No. 4 for Cashmere where
they have a game scheduled with the
High school boys of our neighboring
town. From there they go to Wenatchee
where jhey are scheduled for two
games, Friday and Saturday night.
Walter Koerrer left on 43 yesterday
aiteroooD for Seattle with the purpose
of getting back Saturday.
