twelfth year. no. 28,
• A GREAT ESTABLISHMENT.
|l latere*!l«i« Description of a Visit to
||| Overland Automobile Factory.
IB W. 11. Kinscn. WiUys -Overland dealer
i* InOiovuU. Who is one of the 5,000 dealers
■ visiting the great Toledo plant in Conner
98 tloti With the immense convention now
|9 bi progress, recounts his experience In
•S we lollowlng entertaining letter to the
jsj duxette:
H 1 Some action!
Nothing tii me was ever so impressive
Si mom lout el the great plant that turns
is ou Wiltys.oveiland cars.
■m Out Pullmans were all parked in i..0
;|| company* yards at the factory and i here
!■ was piemt ei room as the company have
,31 MiVOi aim llirec-uuarlers miles of truck
a *idjit tii.- i him.
A* tie- It hian cot a curd containing a pic.
turu of 5 1 ' \V llcys and an autograph
» ntsriav ei w Icome from him., Next thhic
a 1 kt.ea "> were lined up on the steps cf
t|- spumin': new administration building
■ .1 falling
a# Lie.at.shot us up to the company's
Si (*n i«-'a nit en the sixth floor. There.
3d w; hao a miking breakfast At each plate
«j it.,* a topy of the live, new Willnys-Ov i ,
J| IHII'I home organ "The Starter." It iim;>-
7g pen Oil our day's program.
W >ltev breakfast we started on our Mur
M. of tie groat plant. Our guides were ’are.
fully inked men. They knew the plant
Si from cne end to the other and our parties'
M wen small so that each member of the
■ party u uld have his questions answerad.
m Ncbmh ought to try to sell Wlllovs.
3 Overland without having first seen tlds
■ plant. You cunt grip the Immensity of the
3 proposition until you do.
SS It Is no piker business.
« 125,000,000 are tied up in land, buildings
H and machinery, not to say a word about
« about stock parts and material. From the
Si root of the wonderful administration
9 building which stands out like a state
B capital, you get a great panoramic view
■ • of the plant. You can then readily believe
B that It occupies 103 acres, with 4.4SG.GSO
I aguare feet of floor space In dally use
■ and a production capacity of 1000 cars a
I day.
| you can appreciate the growth when
I from 250 employes In ISOS to 17,300 In
I BIG.
I One thousand persons, more than the
I entire force of many a manufacturing
■ concern, work In the administration build.
I Ing alone. This structure. 375 feet long,
I has every facility for rapid work.'lnclud.
I Ing dictaphones, its own telegraph and
I telephone system and a mall handling de-
I partmenl that does about everything but
I write the letters,
I 388 persona can be fed In the restaurant
I at one time. Hnt this Is nothing to whut
I hits one when von cross into the shops.
I It Is a whirl of action, yet all Is system.
Parts, by the untold thousand are here,
with a value Into the millions of dollars.
There are lines of motors. I never saw so
many crank shafts before In my life. Our
guide said rlx thousand, but I would haw.
believed him If he bad said sixty thous
and. There Is stock In bins, stock In yards
and stock all along the walls. Connecting
rods, frames, fenders, mudguards, hoods,
rims, springs, axles, torsion tubes, trana.
mission gear shafts, brake parts, steering
rods, pedals. It Is an unending procession
Every thirty days sees an average of
one thousand tons of steel come In. It is
handled by a magnetic crane that enables
two men to do the work that formerly re.
qulred thirty.
There are amazing machines. The tog
gle press, for example held us all. This
monster, with its pressure of 1,000 tons
shapes cold steel like cardboard. A piece
metal fed-to It comes out as a sld*
• frame. It can make two thousand of these
In eight hours. Other mighty machines
stamp out radiator shells, fenders, cow,
dashes and doors.
Ton take off your hat to the drop forg
ing machines. Down comes the hamniet
and the fiery piece of iron Is beaten into
shape. The complete drop forging of a
front axle can be accomplished with only
one heat. Every kind of part requiring
strength was drop forged wmle we look,
ed on, axles, crank shafts, brake assembly
rods, brake and control rods, spring
shackles, gear blanks and brake rod sec
tors.
We saw the company’s accurate system
of die making- It calls for a special work,
man on each detail. One works on the
shaper, another on the planer and a tniro
on die sinking.
The multiple spindle drill in one opera
tion drills all the holes In the front ax «
This is a guarantee that each will be in
the right relation to the other. It was hard
to drug us away from the automatic
turret lathe that surfaces and finishes
flv wheels. It works as though somewhere
within its metal vitals a brain was con
cealed. The workman has only to put on
the rough fly wheel, adjust the first set
of tools, push the lever, and let the ma.
•chine do the rest. ~
The cast iron is peeled off as readily as
wax. Sometimes four or five operation*
are performed at once. When one set oi
cuttings is done, the machine stops auto
matically and the next set of tools comes
automatically Into place. Twenty opera
tions are performed in fourteen *
26 pounds of metal are removed from the
wheel. One man can watch three of these
machines. „
The vertical cutter or Sh-ar* °u 1 >
wheels almost matches the turret lathe in
"Moving up and down the cotter at the
same time revolves, the fly wheel at the
same time turning in the opposite
tlon. Rv yhe lime a complete revolution n
tin- fly wheel has been accomplished m,
the gears have been cut. ,
We all fell for the aluminum foundry
and for the machines that finish the alum.
Ilium parts. The multiple splndie drill
bores St holes In the crank case In me
operation. This Is a proof of the super,
iorltv of the machining processes for the
holes must be In the right velaUons to
one another. Another machine smooths
the surfaces of the crank cases, finishing
n %3‘dlamonds are consumed
with unparent reckless Indifference In the
wet gFlnd room, Placed In small tools
thev are used to true the emery wheels oi.
which are ground the hearing surfaces oi
ni ,’r. iik shafts Thev are bought In
SXS ono lots. We looked on while whole for
pits of lumber were being turned Into
hocilCH in thtt wood working department.
This lumber comes In by the car load As
•14 feet of wood Is required on a small
touring car. we could readily see why so
111 When 3 one” nfakes this round one can
readllv understand why this company con-
Bumes Burli on immense amount of mat* r
-lil 18 000,000 pounds of solder annually,
2 50o!o6o pounds of tin and lead for smo!
copper 1° 000,000 feel of steel tubing and
'
SMXrS!. W."bSTiiS? iSUrt
* Tests'ln the physic*land
Small hits of Steel six Inches long ut
from completed axles, aoart. The
both ends and ’OO 000 pounds
stpiare 1 Inch necessary to accomgllih
pound's "would* be "proof of ample ) tonslle
strength. Springs are tried for then re.
"'sfeentrtleles are also put through both
heat and chemical testa The■former de
termines the amount of
portant factor: the other determines
chemical composition of the stee .
Naturally every operationi In »« 1 •
pants tends finally toward the assemtuy
conveyor tracks. There are four of them,
ear-h 845 feet long. We
We followed the whole opc ,at *£P' "u
began at one end whore the frames onn
rear systems are put In P ,a ®®- J f , rear heft
the other end of the conveyor Is reacheft
the frame has grown Into the finis if ti
lCar
From overhead parts are lowered h>
chains. Mong the way. men are attaching
the parts. The frame Is not in motion at.
the time hut can he Instantly connected
with the links of an endless chain anft
sent on its way whenever desired.
Top quality work Is assured by having
each man do the work on which he Is an
expert, if it he only to tighten a bolt.
. Lines of motors already tested, wait on
both sides of the conveyor. These are pul
In place rontllever springs are put on,
JBr * 4 T\TT 1/ 1 1__!
wIC IX^Sixw/i
/ JyWAA/iCK DX. LiLtai
f'nPnf ri^fFMWW
mechanism and lighting and
tha' 1 .'.!? ? 5 ’» terns *>*'e adjusted, Gradually
the cat takes form. Instead of ualntina
w . lth a brush, a sprayer is
H ’toes the work mure rapidly mors
unlfromly and at a lower cost.
tracks of the assembly lead dt
tectly through ovens In which the paint
is baked, benders and running boards
‘"to their places. Wheels with theli
iclrat °,' l r.. are ht'eught along on a runway
1 list tomes a front wheel and then a
rear wheel. Vou ought to see them put on
the tires. It l« lightning. By a specfal do
vice, invented by one of the men in the
wlrnei m "hI, th " tlre , can Put on {he
id throe seconds.
b'roin overhead, bodies are dropped down
on to the chassis and soon made last The
car Is now ready for its tests. Rapidly re
volving wheels In the floor engagj the
wheels of the car ami send them at high
speed to make sure that they are operat
ing freely, this is not a test mules the
power of the car.
Gasoline and water are then put Into
Hie car. It Is pushed off the track Into
another room, until Its wheels come In
contact with another set of wheels in the
floor. With the use of the self starte,
the machine gels Its first chance to prove
the success of its construction.
It surprised me at the way the motors
started. They were off with a rush. There
was no hitch or delay. All the work hoi
been done right. In a few minutes the mo.
tors were working apparently almost as
smoothly as if it had been a year on the
road.
We saw bow the cars are shipped. The
export department was the big feature In
this line. The finished car undergoes prep,
aratlon by having Its wheels taken oft
and fastened on the underside of the
frame which forms the top covering tot
the car. The top 1s covered with tar pa.
per as a protection against the elements,
and all Is securely boxed
Along comes a big crane running In an
overhead grove a quarter of a mile long
Tho operator sits in a small cab not un
like that of a railroad engineer. Chains
grab the box containing the car, and
within forty-five seconds have carried It
outside the building and placed It on the
flat car.
It Is processes like these that I have
been trying to describe that explains why
every car In the Wlllys.Overland line Is
what It 1s at so low a cost. Making so
many Is the answer, making them to go
all over the world and having profiled by
the experiences of users everywhere.
We saw the new line. It Is duality from
the lowest priced to the headliner. It will
be the marvel of the automobile shows.
This sightseeing tour Is only one angle
of this convention. Tonight we will heai
poliev defined by the different officials.
The two days program includes a rol
licking beefsteak dinner, a more forma,
banquet, a minstrel show, a concert by
the famous Overland band and a concert
bv the glee club. Finally there will be a
speech by the moving genious of It ah.
Mr Wlllvs himself. You will agree with
me' that this is some project to have been
put over all within one plant and by the
people of all tho orgamzatlon.
COMMUNICATED.
Much has been said in connection
with the changes made in the grades
of our apples. We desire to give a few
conclusions drawn from experience
gained In having had much to do with
the handling of some 15,000 cars of
boxed fruit of the northwest, the num
ber of cars handled by the North Paci
fic Fruit Distributors during the past
seapopß. This volume o£ tonnage
going to practically all markets, has
provided us with experiences which
should enable us to speak with author
ity grounded In fact.
The statement Is frequently made
that the tendency of the Spokane
Grade and Pack Convention was to
lower standards. The effort put forth
there and carried, was not to lower
standard, but to meet the natural con
ditions and laws of the trade, and to
simplify and reduce expense to the
growers. Just because we have been
following a certain course of action lot
the past ten years, and have become
accustomed to such action, does not
argue that we have been correct. On
the contrary, we believe some changes
and readjustments can be made which
will mean simplification, economy, less
confusion in the markets, in a word,
more dollars and cents to the growers.
There are naturally only two classes
of trade who consumes apples; that is
the stand trade, and the kitchen or
general trade. We have been having
three packs to supply this trade,
namely, extra fancy, fancy and “C"
grades. The little dlference between
the extra fancy, fancy and “C’’ grades
was such that much confusion arose
The two grades that find their natural
markets and are each season eagerly
sought after by the purchaser, are t
extra fancy and the “C” grades, the
fancy grade seems to have no logical
market. It Is sold everywhere, in our
extra fancy markets and in our “C"
grade markets. It is the grade that ev
ery organization or selling institution
has diflfculty in selling, this is because
there Is no well defined place for it.
Now there were some of us at the
Grade and Pack convention who be
lieved that this could be corrected by
a readjustment of the grading rules,
that would assist each grade to find a
natural market. With this end in view
a few slight changes were made in the
extra fancy, and decided changes were
made in the fancy and “C” grades. By
these changes, it is possible for the
trade and the grower to more clearly
understand Just what the grades stand
for and where the line is drawn. The
extra fancy will hold its present place
and retain Its distinction as the stand
apple. The fancy grade will take its
logical place and become the grade of
general use. It will bo the apple for
storage and speculation by the buyer
In ordinanry markets as well as an ap
ple for ordinary consumption. It will
be sound and free from disease of any
kind and clearly understood as for
common utility. The “C” grade will be
the cooker grade. It will be a grade
for immediate consumption only. It
will Include all apples that are dlscase
less and have consumptive value.
In the past, the margin of difference
in real value between extra fancy and
fancy and “C” grade was so small that
many growers became careless m thei|
grading. We know many growers who
argue, and with reason, that it was too
costly for the difference in value, to
grade for extra fancy, and therefore
packed only fancy and “C”. We can
conceive of no mistake for the general
good of the business greater than this
That part of our business in which lies
our greatest profit, and which will
make for our highest permanent good.
Is conceded to be in the extra fancy
markets and the fruit to fill the extra
fancy demand. When we grade our
selves out of extra fancy fruit, which
for all commercial purposes belongs
in the extra fancy grade, our benefits
are only immaglnary, not real. We
have a line Ideal but an ideal without
the product. This readjustment of
grades will make a differential In val
ues which will stimulate the grower
to make strong efforts to raise extra
fancy fruit. A premium will be paid for
effort. It will lead to better pruning,
spraying, thinning and all that goes to
raise a high percentage of extra fancy.
Instead of encouraging laxity on the
part of the grower, It will stimulate ef
fort. He will see In his effort dollars
and cents.
Nothing has lost for our growers
more money than the Idea that because
we raise a high quality apple, we rase
the only high quality apple. The trade
does not make any material distinction
between the extra fancy apple, prop
erly graded, of one district, and that
of another. Where we ezcell Is In quan
tity of extra fancy and certainty of
production Upon these two last fac
tors we should base our operations.
We cannot set up a standard of our
own choosing and compete with the
other boxed apple districts using a dif
ferent standard, without ourselevps be
coming the heavy losers. What we need
Is a northwest standard, rigidly en
forced by proper Inspection. We are
fast progressing In this direction. The
sooner we get there, the sooner will
one of the main problems be solved.
None of those problems can be prop
erly worked out without uniform dis
trict Inspection, and uniform north
west inspection. All factors interested
in the northwest fruit Industry should
work for rules based on common
sense, for uniform inspection, and for
rigid enforcement.
WENATCHEE NORTH CENTRAL
FRUIT DISTRIBUTORS.
H. E. Tlbblta
J. B. Schons
T. I. Jones
Ben P. Smith
I. C. Parsons
A. E. Swan
Warren O. Dow.
A HAPPY KIDDIE.
One of the prettiest events of the
holidays, and one that brought Joy to
the heart of a charming little girl, was
staged at the Orovllle General Hos
pital Christmas eve. under the super
vision of Mr, and Mrs. Reary, the wor
thj .couple having charge of that In
stitution. Some time ago Dr. Lewis
operated on little Ruth Fletcher,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. O. I, Fletcher
who live near Molson, for appendi
citis, The child has won the hearts of
the doctors, nurses and all connected
la any way with the hospital by her
loveable and cheerful disposition. She
had not sufficiently recovered to re
turn home for Christmas, and in or
der that the little one should not be
debarred from the happiness of the
Christmas cheer that brings Joy to all
children, Urs. Lewis and Efner, In
conjunction with Mr. and Mrs. Reary,
arranged to surprise little Ruth with
a tree of her own. Our merchants con
tributed presents for the child, the
Rearys decorated the tree, the hospital
was made bright with holiday orna
mentation and the youthful patient
was made supremenly happy when the
surprise was sprung upon her.
I’OSTOFFICE RUSH.
There was surely one busy place In
town during the past week, and that
was the post office. Postmaster Hos
kyn and his force were put through a
lively pace handling incoming and
outgoing Christmas packages. Friday,
alone, the office handled over 400
packages going out, while a slather of
bundles wore received. An unusually
largo number of packages arrived at
this point from Canadian postoflfces.
Those packages all had to be Inspect
ed by the revenue officers. If any of
the packages contained datable arti
cles the amount due was marked on the
package and the amount paid In by
the receiver at the post office of Its
destination, and then forwarded to the
United States treasury. Few pack
ages were entered for mailing Satur
day, as there is no train out Sunday..
Another flood mall of a Christmas
character arrived Monday evening,
somewhat belated In transit. Take It
all around and Postmaster Hoskyn
thinks the Chrlstms exchange of pres
ents through the mall was much
heavier this year than last, and this
was especially the case with shipments
of holiday remembrances from Cana
dian points.
SATISFACTORY • HOLIDAY TRADE.
From interviews with merchants It
is evident that all the business houses
enjoyed a larger holiday trade this
year than any previous Christmas In
the history of the town, when condi
tions were normal. I.ast year there
were a large number of people here
connected with the construction of the
irrigation system, accounting for the
unusual amount of money being In dr
dilation, and consequently sales were
abnormal, yet in some Instances stores
about town enjoyed even a greater
trade this vear than last. As one mer
chant remarked it was noticeable
that there was more of a disposition
shown to buy at home than ever be
fore. Altogether business prior to
Christmas and during the holidays In
Oroville was very satisfactory.
There is some prospect of work
commencing again on tLa Owasco.
OROVALLE, WABHIN VTON DECEMBER 29, 1916
Happenings When the Land Was
Tenng and Sparsely Settled.
(From the Loomis Prospector, De
cember 31, 1897.)
The Prospector gives considerable
space to rich finds on Torodo creek, on
the north half of the Colville reserva
tion. Considerable Interest was being
developed in the mineral prospects of
that part of the country nineteen years
ago, and much development was done,
but a paying mine never resulted.
Nothing has been heard of Torodo
creek mining properties for years.
A correspondent and the Prospector
was making a strong appeal for a road
between Loomis and Kettle Falls.
Frank Grogan reported a discovery
of ore In hts Stmilkameen claims that
ran “several hundred ounces silver to
the ton." Mr. Grogan Is still holding
those claims and has visions of a for
tune to bo derived therefrom some
time In the future. He has It to reali
ze tor hie optimism and sttoktoatlve
ness.
The Prospector was making consid
erable complaint over the cold weather
and heavy fall of snow, which would
Indicate that the winter of 1897-8 was
very much similar to what the winter
of 1916-17 promises to be at this time.
M. Lauber proved up on bis Oka
nogan valley ranch Saturday. (That
place is what is known now as the old
Lauber ranch, which gives the name to
Lauber’a gulch, an ugly gash in the
scenery that has caused much trouble
to road makers since road making
commenced In the valley.)
Jos. Linton was supplying the Pros
pector with winter vegetables, and
Mr. Linton is stilt farming the land
from which those vegetables came.
Joe Bertrand the Slmilkameen ferry
man, was In town Tuesday, doing his
holiday shopping. (Bertrand's ferry
was located a short distance east of
Nlghthawk, and the town Is built upon
a portion of tho tend owned by Ber
trand at that tlnlo. Bertrand has been
dead a dozen ysnH or more.)
Ed. Hart, who is in charge of the
Triune property during the absence of
his brother in tHs east, was a visitor
In town Tuesday.i(And Mr. Hart Is still
resident of -the takUn neighborhood.)
Bert Rlste, who is connected with
the Oroville Trading Go's., large mer
cantile establishment, put In a few
days visiting with friends in Loomis.
(Mr. Rlste Is now a resident of Mol
son.)
J. E. Samson, the popular Orovlllan,
who Is the manager of the Oroville
Trading company was over to Loomis
Wednesday on business for the house
he is with. (Mr. Samson is still a popu
lar resident of Oroville, but Is now in
the drug line.)
Col. Bill Hughes, the widely known
cattle man, was over from the Okano
gan river Tuesday. He reports cattle
to be in liner condition for this season
of the year than during any winter
since he can remember. (All the old
timers remember Bill Hughes, who
was quite a character In the Okanogan
country twenty years ago. Bill’s repu
tation was not that of a Sunday school
teacher. He was a rough and ready
frontiersman, quick to anger and al
ways ready with the trigger finger,
and yet like all men, he had his good
points. He Is now at Anchorage, Alaska
where he Is running a pack train.)
It was some lively in Loomis in those
days as the following item would Indi
cate: “A black eye for a Christmas
gift la not a present that everybody
would rejoice over, still In the general
distribution of mementoes some fell In
tor that kind of decoration.”
W. L. Davis, the clever proprietor of
the stage line between Conconully and
Virginia City, who owns one of the
finest ranches In the Okanogan valley
has our thanks for a box of apples
that for quality could not bo surpassed
by any orchard In the state. (The
“Virginia City" city above mentioned
was the boat landing on the Columbia
river near where Brewster Is now situ
ated. Mr. Davis was one of the oldest
and best known residents of the coun
ty. He died in Oroville a year ago, and
his family still resides here.)
The Christmas tree and Its precious
fruit was largely In evidence In Loo
mis Christmas of 1897. The Prospector
reports the largest crowd In attend
ance at the principal tree ever seen in
the camp.
A. J. Decatur, of Conconully. spent
the holidays with his daughter. Mrs.
Wo. Schufeldt. (Mr. Decatur shortly
after that time moved to Wilbur where
he died years ago. The Schufldts went
to Texas, where they are still living.)
The Prospector was whooping up the
Klondike route via Loomis which
never got any further than the whoop
up.
Among the numerous names men
tioned of arrivals, departures and al
ways present, we note the following,
and wonder where they all may be
these holidays of 1916-17: Joe Goddard
an alleged boxer of those days; Wm
Pralther, similarly Inclined with his
dukes and mentioned In connection
with matches at Loomis and Falrvlew
with Goddard on the other corner of
the ring; Wm. Twlsp. a genial em
ployee at the Palmer mountain tunnel:
Frank B. McDonald, who left for Seat
tle about Christmas ; C. H. Brown, a
prominent resident of Greenwood:
Walter J. Bowen, an old resident of
LOOKING BACKWABD.
Davenport; Dan Llndeborg, a local
prospector of some years residence;
Win. Graves, whose marriage with
Miss Tinnte Culbertson was announced
among the Christmas festivities; Lewis
Bright, of Malott; Rev. J. E. Stewart,
who had charge of the Presbyterian
congregation, which was few and far
between; Miss Pearl Rogers, who
afterwards married and moved away;
Miss Mary E. Thompson, who married
a British Columbia newspaper man;
Tim Macum, a miner at the tunnel;
Jns. Hayes at Falrview, a rather un
certain quantity: A. W. Honslngor,
who conducted a restaurant In Loomis
for a time, and then went to Nevada;
J. J. Johnson, well known by the famil
iar name of “Buckskin,” supposed to
be a remittance man; W. M. Clark,
who went to Nelson, B. C„ to make his
home; Jas. Lara way, an expert cab
inet maker; Geo, Noyes, the Incorrigi
ble enigma, who afterwards foil from
grace and went to Walla Walla, not
especially for his health: Morris Far
rell whose death has been reported
at several places on the coast: Pember,
a local publican.
READJUSTING PBECINCT LINES.
At a recent meeting of the county
commissioners several new voting pre
cincts were organized and the boun
dary lines of others were changed.
Among the number the following
boundary of Orovllle precinct No. 3
>vas established:
Beglnntg at the northeast corner
of section 6, T. 40 N., R. 28 E. W. M„ of
the International boundary line, thence
south three miles, thence east one mile
thence south one mile, thence east one
halt mile, thence south one mile to
south one-quarter corner Sec. 28, T. 40
N., R. 2 8 E. W. M., thence south one
mile to the southeast corner Sec. 32,
T. 40 N„ R. 28 E. W. M., thence south
three and three-puarters miles to the
northeast corner SE4 BE4, Sec. 20 T.
39 N., R. 28 E . W.M., thence ast one
mile, thence south two and one quar
ter miles to the southeast corner Sec.
33, T. 39 N„ R. 28 E. W. M„ thence
south one and one half miles, thence
west one-haK mile thence south one
hal fmlle, thence west one half mile,
thence south one mile to southeast r.or
nex Sec. 14, T. 38 N., R. 28 E. W. M„
thence west along the section line to
an Intersection with the center line of
the main chanel of the Okanogan river,
thence along the main channel of the
Okanogan river, northward to Osoyoos
lake, thece northward along the center
line of Osoyoos lake to the Internat
ional boundary line, thence east along
said boundary line to the place of be
ginning.
SOMEWHAT OF A CONTRAST.
The changes that a comparatively
few years will work In the rapidly
growing west cannot be better illus
trated than a comparison of the holi
day trade of the present year with
that of a tew years ago. The difference
in conditions were brought forcibly to
our mind by the liberal display of holi
day advertising in the Gazette Just pri
or to Christmas, (and for which we
arc duly thankful.) Thirty-three years
ago the publisher of the Gazette was
publishing the Spokane Falls Review,
and Spokane Falls was not a great
deal larger than Oroville Is now. The
Review carried no special Christmas
advertiisng, simply because there was
no Christmas goods to sell. Never was
a town of the same size so completely
destitute of those articles that enter
into the catagory of Christmas pres
ents for the young.
In those days the few business
houses in existence in that city were
scattered along Howard street, from
Riverside avenue to the river with an
occasional one story frame building
here and there along Riverside avenue,
not further west than Mill street nor
further east than Stevens, occupied by
dealers In various lines carrying a
meager assortment of Junk. A few
days prior to Christmas in company
with our better half we made the
rounds of the stores and shops in
search of something to make happy a
small family of very small youngsters.
That search was in vain. There was
not a single toy, not a single doll, not
a single book, not a single pound of
candy that had not lost its color from
contact, with flies and its saccharine
taste from old age. There was nothing
absolutely nothing, appropriate for a
child’s stocking, or for a gift for a
grown person, that could be purchas
ed. All that could be found was a very
homely looking rocking chair secured
at a carpenter’s shop, a hammer and
a few nails, some antique candy and
a few handsfuil of pop corn that look
ed as though it had come around the
horn several years before. These
"presents” were not very attractive,
noi was It much of an assortment, but
we were not going to let those kiddies
wake up on Christmas morning and
feel heart broken because of the fail
ure of Santa Clause to Include that
dwelling on his annual rounds.
And yet for all the Inconveniences
and lack of luxuries those were happy
days. The chlldre were as Joyous over
their presents that would now be con
sidered almost repulsive, as the more
fortunate child of today with Its mul
titude of handsome toys and comfort
able articles of personal adornment.
The grown people, too, seemed to get
more out of life. The greed of gain had
not curdled the milk, of human kind
ness, men seemed to treat each other
more as friends and brothers, there
were no Idle rich every individual was
upon the same plane in n worldly
sense, and among them, loyalty to
their town and the people therein,
stood next to their love of God and
home. There were big, warm hearted,
tried and true men in Spokane Falls
thirty-three years ago, and those still
living who were there then, (and sad
to say, few of them are left) will never
look upon men of like character and
attributes again.
A BARE DEPOSIT.
C. W. Smith, who is an expert assay
er and a clever chemist, has devoted
much of bis time to spying out rare
minerals r.nd chemicals in this county,
and has made some remarkable discov
eries through assays, tests and anal
ysis, as well as by personal prospect
ing. A recent discovery that came to
his attention is a large deposit of what
he designates us inetallc arsenic. It Is
rare that arsenic occurs in such form.
It Is In the nature of solid ore, and ore
of great weight. It Is not known as to
whether this deposit can be made com
mercially valuable, but from the fact
that arsenic exists In this county In
such a form shows that the county con
tains more rare minerals and chemical
deposits than the people know of. Mr.
Smith was so Interested in the tlnd
that he sent a sample of the ore to the
United States geological department,
at Washington, D. C., and received a
long letter In reply from which the fol
lowing is an extract:
“The specimen No. 1,” which came
from a deposit 18 miles out of Loomis.
Washington, on the road to the tung
sten property, “la native arsenic. Na
tive arsenic ns you know, is of rather
uuusual occurrence, and if you could
get a larger specimen for the National
Museum 1 am sure it would be greatly
appreciated by the Museum authorities
and would make a very interesting ex
hibit. If you can get such a specimen
please send It under the accompanying
frank, and the Survey will see that It
Is properly placed, and it will, of
course, be labeled with your name as
the donor. Naturally the Museum
would like as large and perfect a piece
as It Is possible to obtain.”
y'hi. EXCELLENT SHOWING.
Live stock Is a source of a very large
Income for the farmers and stockmen
of this county, and few realize what a
large amount of ready money comes
into this upper country through that
source. There arc a number of men
who make a business of buying cattle
in the Okanogan country, and among
them none is better known, nor does a
larger business in that line, than our
townsman A. J. Jackson. According to
his records, Mr. Jackson lias during
the past twelve months shipped to Se
attle and Spokane markets 74 car loads
of cattle and 18 car loads of hogs, he
working both the bacon and beefstake
routes. These shipments represents the
distribution among the stockmen of
Okanogan county of over $140,000, and
cash on the nail. That Is a most credit
able showing for a single buyer, and
those who know him trust that Mr
Jackson will be able to handle twice
as much stock during the new year.
S NEW MASONIC OFFICERS.
At a recent meeting of the local Ma
sonic lodge the following officers were
chosen to serve during the ensuing
year;
W. C. Jones, W. M.
J. M. T. Williams, S. W.
A. S. Groulx, J. W.
A. Voligny, Sec.
J. Frlls, Treas.
Geo. J. Whistler, S. D.
A. W. Johnston, J. D.
F. S. Beale. S. S.
E. Williams, J. S.
Installation will take place at Ma
sonic hall next Wednesday evening,
January J, 1917, to which all Masons,
families and friends are cordially In
vited.
L
METHODIST CHURCH,
Sunday school, 10 a. m. Epworth
League, 6:30 p. m. Preaching service,
7:30 p. m. Subject—“A New Year’s
Message.’’
A series o£ revival meetings will be
gin Monday night, January 1, All
Christians arc invited to co-opcrate in
these meetings. The purpose of the
meetings is to deepen the spiritual
life of professing Christians, to save
men from sin and help make Oroville
a better place as well as bigger and
busier. The prayers and attendance of
all Christian people are earnestly de
sired.
Gospel singing and preaching each
evening at 7:30.
F. L. COOK, Pastor.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. H. Severance, Dean.)
Sunday school, Christmas Party and
tree on Friday evening, December 29.
at 6 p. m.
On Sunday, December 31, Holy Com
munion and sermon at 11 a. m., with
special Christmas music. Evening ser
vice and address at 7 p. m. Sunday
school at 12.
Semi-annual business meeting and
election of officers of Trinity Guild
will be held in the church on nest
Wednesday afternoon.
A TIMELY PRESENT.
First Payment on the Tungsten Mine
Received a Few Days Before
Christmas.
Herbert Curtis, the original locator
of the tungsten claims situated high up
in the mountains west of Loomis, and
only about a mile south of the interna
tional boundary line, spent the week in
Orovllle taking a re it and inciden
tally hti.mg dental woik done. Mr.
Curtis has good and sutficiout reasons
tor feeling that to him this was a real
merry Christmas, as a few days be
fore that dale the company that pur
chased the tungsten claims, about a
year ago, handed over the first pay
ment on the contract. That is to say,
for the first time Mr. Curtis had a
chance to finger his tharo cf the re
ceipts, for the payment had boon de
posited according to contract in the
bank at Loomis in October, but owing
to hitches that need not be explained,
some created by individuals who
thought they say a chance to get bold
of a chunk of real money, the transfer
of the cash was held up until this date.
All’s well that ends well, and at last
the man who earned the money by ten
years of waiting and many hardships
has received the first installment of bis
Just reward.
The discovery of this tungsten de
posit Is further evidence that this up
per country is not nly rich in the
common metals of commerce, but con
tains rare minerals that exiot in only
a few localities in the country. This
rather rare mineral was discovered by
Mr. Curtis some ten years ago. A com
pany was organized at that time to
promote the property, but that com
pany went the way of so many other
raining companies in this county. The
ground was afterwards relocated by
Mr. Curtis, or at least through means
by which Mr. Curtis obtained an in
terest. During the following years Mr.
Curtis and bis associates continued do
ing the assessment work. A number of
prospective investors examined the
property and were well satisfied with
the showing, but owing to the inacces
sible location, high up in the moun
tains and remote from transportation,
no one was able to interest capital in
the proposition. After the European
war brokeoo f , and tbo destruction of
metals became enormous, tungsten,
like other metals, took on an abnor
mal value. Seattle men took over the
claims about a year ago. At heavy ex
pense and labor machinery was hauled
to the mine from Loomis, a large force
of men employed, much development
work done and some ore and subse
quently concentrates shipped out. As
has been so often the case in mining
operations in this county serious and
expensive mistakes were made, entail
ing unnecessary costs upon those who
supplied the sinews, at least so the re
port goes. As an instance, two large
boilers have been laboriously trans
ported to the mine and neither of them
produced the power expected. A
mill is erected on the ground and
numerous buildings for the accommo
dation of the men have been put up.
The work and improvements represent
the expenditure of many thousands of
dollars. So far, the concentrates ship
ped out and still on hand represent a
value approximately of about $30,000.
The ore is there in large and paying
quantities and when the mine is prop
erly equipped and producing it will un
doubtedly pay the operators, and pay
them well.
Owing to the location the extraction,
milling and transportation of the pro
duct Is always going to be expensive,
but the ore runs strong In tungsten,
and this metal always commands a
high price and will continue to do so
for a long time In the future as the vis
ible supply Is not greater than the de
mand. Unfortunately the location is a
draw back and has discouraged pros
pective Investors In the past. The
claims are at an altitude of between
six and seven thousand feet, snow falls
to a great depth In the winter, and
there are only two or thre months In
the year when the ground Is bare. It
is 40 miles northwest of Lomls and 27
miles from Kereraeos, B. C. With much
difficulty and expense, a road was con
structed from Loomis up Toats coula
creek to the mine. Last fall consider
able work was done on a road from the
mine to Asnola creek, and while the
grade Is heavy In places It Is said
that a very good road can be made, and
the reduction In distance to transporta
tion Is a great attraction to the opera
tors. Work has been suspended at the
mine for the winter, but It Is the Inten
tion of the company to put on a full
force and renew operations on a large
scale in the spring.
A persistent report has been In cir
culation during the past week that
Frank Wilson, formerly a resident of
Oroville for several years, and a strong
factor for many seasons In the local
ball club, had died at Seattle. It was
known that Mr. Wilson was In the hos
pital in that city and had to submit
to a serious operation, but news has
been received that he was Improving.
An effort was made to run down the
rumor of his death without success.
W. .1, Frank says that he met a man
who saw Wilson on the streets of Se
attle Tuesday of last week, which was
three days after the da'i of the alleged
death.
11.60 PER TSAR
