'-ricnl Society,
lie
iitttel
fifmitiiifii
VOL. 4.i
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1916.
NO. 51
1
To All Our Friends
and Customers
We tender sincere
thanks for the liberal pat
ronage of the past year
and wish a full measure
of health and prosperity
during the com
ing year.
Karsch's
Telephone Matter
to Present Date
The following report on the condi
tion of the Farmington Telephone
System, which was received the first
of the week, from Geo. P. Player, by
Mayor E. J. McKinney, indicates quite
dearly the present condition of the
telephone controversy that has been
in progress here lately. This report
was made after a complete and
thorough examination into the con
ditions here that brought about the
controversy, and The Times publishes
it in order that each and every one
who may have interested themselves
in this matter may be clearly under
stood, as we believe this report is ab
solutely fair to all parties.
In connection with, this report, we
will here state that the work of in
stalling the new telephones is now
under way, and this work will
probably be completed before the
15th of January, which was the
date given to the inspector for the
completion of this Work. The Times
also wishes to state, before closing
this matter, that the management of
this paper is abundantly pleased with
the happy termination of this matter,
and will here state that we have done
nothing in this matter that we would
not do again under like circumstances.
We have no apologies to make to any
one for the part this paper took in this
controversy, but are rather inclined to
a feeling of pride for rendering the
public more or less service in this mat
ter. The following is the report of the
Chief of Telephone and Telegraph
Departments of the State Public Util
ities Commission:
Jefferson City, Mo., Dec. 21, 1916.
Public Service Commission,
C. A. Tetley
DENTIST
Now Located in the
New Tetley Building
NOTE: I have ordered my
phone installed, but cannot get
it for about ten days or two
weeks. Until that time, any
one wishing to make appoint
ments with me may do so by
calling Eight-four.
C. C. Mitchell
NOTED LECTURER
4th Number Lyceum Course
at
MONARCH THEATRE
Tuesday, January 2d
8:15 P. M.
Admission: Adults 50c; Children 25c
j
Jefferson City, Mo. 1
Gentlemen: As per the instructions!
of the Commission I have lnvestigat-
ed the complaint of the people of
Farmington vs. The Farmington Tel
ephone Company, alleging unsatis
factory and inadequate telephone ser
vice. This was a verbal complaint to
Commissioner Bean while he was in
Farmington upon a formal matter be
fore the Commission
In talkinir with thp Mavov. Citv
Attorney and other representative asked the manager of the telephone
citizens of Farmington, I found that 'company to give him a list of all the
they were wholly dissatisfied with the 1 Places where the electric light wires
telephone service rendered, on ac-! were interfering or would interfere
count of slow service, bad connections i wlth the telephone service, and he
and poor maintenance condition of I would have correct construction made,
telephone instruments, especially on j Tne Mayor took the stand that it was
desk telephones. It appeared that I not fair to ask the telephone company
when a connection was made between ! to render a service to the city, which
two telephones that it was almost im- 't could not give owing to the inter
possible to attract the attention of the ference by electric light wires, owned
operaor in order to secure another by the city, with the telephone wires.
r - ..... T i.ll l in . j
connection, for the reason that the
switchboard apparatus was in very
poor working order. With approxi
mately 450 telephones in Farmington
it would appear that the telephone
company should do what is necessary
to give efficient telephone service.
After going over the matter at con
siderable length with the various cit
izens, I visted the office of the tele
phone company and found that the
company had moved a common bat
tery switchboard from Flat River ov
er to Farmington, and are having the
board installed by a competent in
staller from the Kellogg Switchboard
Company's factory at Chicago. The
board is a 600-line North Electric
manufacture, is in good mechanical
condition and is amply adequate for
the needs of Farmington. This board
had been in use at Flat River and was
replaced by a new board of 200 lines
more capacity. I examined all parts
of the board and found that the phy
sical condition of the mechanical parts
was such as would render adequate
service. In addition to the board be
ing installed, the company had in their
storeroom new desk and wall type tel
ephone instruments of Western Elec
tric manufacture which would be in
stalled in place of the old instru
ments now being used.
I then called a meeting between the
manager of the telephone company,
the Mayor, a member of the City
Council and a newspaper representa
tive, all of whom accompanied me to
the telephone office and examined the
apparatus being installed and the
equipment which would replace the
present equipment. I explained to
them that the new equipment to be in
stalled would be adequate for their
needs, and that the switchboard, al
though not new, would give just as
good service as a new board. All con
cerned seemed very well satisfied with
the efforts of the telephone company,
and also appreciated having the mat
ter explained to them.
I might state that the delay on the
the
part of the telephone company in not
having installed this same equipment
during the summer months was oc
casioned by the Kellogg Company be
ing unable to supply the new board
for Flat River. All of the manufac
turing companies in the country today
tire anywhere from twelve to eight
een months in arrears of orders, and
none of the companies will promise
shipment of equipment, especially
switchboards, under twelve months
from date of order. The manager oft
the company presented lor inspection
a bill for the instruments now at
Farmington, showing that these in
struments were ordered the 31st day
of March, 1916, to be shipped direct
to Farmington. The telephone com
pany expects to have made the chang
es of all instruments and have the
new service in good working order by
January 15th.
The outside plant of the telephone
company appears to be in good physi
cal condition. The cables and poles
are in good shape and amply sufficient
to carry the new common battery
service being installed. There is,
however, considerable interference
: with the telephone company's lines on
the part of the municipal lighting
I plant. The city has run their electric
; lines close to the telephone lines in
many places, and in one instance has i
j a circuit on the same cross-arm with
the Bell toll lines and one toll line of
j the Farmington Company. This is be
, tween Farmington and Flat River,
j The induction from the electric circuit
j renders the toll line of the Farming
i ton Company uncommercial. This
electric line, while not owned by the
eity outside of the city limits, is sup-
Pl'cd with current by the city. There
are several places where the city wires
are too close to the telephone wires
and in one instance the lineman for
the city has nailed a bracket to the
wooden cable terminal of the tele
phone company and attached on an
electric wire thereto. I did not see
this specific case, but it was admitted
by a member of the City Council and
the telephone manager. The Mayor
iwapecuuiiy suumiueu,
GEO. P. PLAYER.
Chief of Telephone & Telegraph Dept
Faithful Service
The week before Christmas was a
blizzardy one, with its snow, biting
wind and zero weather, and while Old
Santa with his reindeer and sledge
would have laughed at these trifles
since he has exchanged his sledge for
Uncle Sam's parcel post, things got
blocked and all jammed up. Uncle
Sam's postal clerks were hard press
ed to handle the tons of packages Old
Santa had unloaded on them, but
judging from what we observed at the
Post Office in Farmington, these same
clerks are the most faithful and good
natured boys in the world. To add to
the latter's discomfort, on Thursday,
wnne old boreas was howling arounr
the vicinity of zero, and the plumb
ers were putting in an additional ra
diator to make the office more com
fortable, the hot water pipe burst and
threw the whole furnace heating ap
paratus out of order, and it took two
days to get the necessary pipes from
the city to start things up again. But
this didn't stop the Post Office clerks
from the strenuous work of sorting
and distributing the mail. What
warmth coal oil stoves could afford
was provided, but it wasn't "good old
summer time" in the office. All day
and much of the night Postmaster
J. B. Smith and his clerks Robert L.
Clay, M. S. Richards and Randall Hol
land worked away and served the
thronging patrons. It was a trying
time that was calculated to tax one's
nerves and temper, yet not once did
they give way, but good-natured,
courteous and smiling, met every de
mand. Boys, we are constrained to
compliment you and sing your praise.
Headed This Way
The following splendid list of new
and renewal subscriptions have been
received the past week, which will help
to start the New Year most happily
for The Times:
New Subscriptions C. A. Sigman
of St. Louis, E. J. Jennings of San
Diego, Calif., Mrs. J. B. Broughton of
Marston, Mo., Baker Lead Co. of Bos
ton, Mass., John Graham of Liberty
ville, Chas. Wilson of Esther, John B.
Gale of Flat River, J. G. Russell of
Sikeston, Solon Hough and Mrs. Jen
nie Taylor of Farmington, Fred Mur
phy of Route 6, Farmington.
Renewals Felix Bourgeois, Miss
Carrie Tullock and Leroy Matkin of
Bismarck, W. C. Ashburn, Robert
Norman and P. A. Benham of Bonne
Terre, Dr. A. F. Eugas of Farmington,
Lott Griffin of Route 1, and Jacob
Berner of Koute
vu ni.w. nf t d r:.,! I
of Fredericktown, J. A. Ballard of
Marion, 111., Walter McFarland of El-'
vins. C. A. Eaton of Cane C.irarHpnn. i
Baker Lead Comnanv of Le-idwnod.
Dr. I. B. Perkins of Denver, Colo.
Sam J. McMinn of Buchanan, Mo.,
Harry Sutton, Route 6 Farmington,
and George Halter of Farmington.
Harry Sutton, Route 6 Farmington,
George Halter, Farmington.
A. O. Nichols, who is interested in
mining properties at Miami, came
home for the Christmas holidays.
Greeting
As this is the last number of The Times for 1916',, and the
dawn of 1917 is peeping over the hills of Time, we wish for its
readers a Happy New Year. The present management of this
paper has been in your midst but a short twelve months. The
days have been full of earnest labor to give you a paper well
worth your support in which we believe we have succeeded
and while discouragements have been encountered, these have
been more than counterbalanced by the warm encouragement
so generously accorded us. To say that we appreciate this
but mildly expresses our emotions. We have largely enjoyed
our stay in your midst and our labor among you. We have
learned to love the people of Farmington and St. Francois
county, for we have never known a better, and do not believe
there is a better on earth.
It is our plc&jure, as it shall be our endeavor, to continue
to labor with you for the material advancement and upbuild
ing of our little city and our county, and the development of
their resources. Any enterprise that may contribute to this
end it shall be our purpose to foster and help along by honest
effort and with every means at our disposal. We want and
will need your help in this, and are confident that you will ex
tend that help freely, cheerfully, and we shall strive with all
our might to give you one of the best home papers in the
State. Indeed, we arc satisfied that Farmington now has two
of the best county papers published The Times and The
News but it shall be our endeavor to make each weekly num
ber of The Times better than the one prcceeding it.
So, with the season's greeting of a Happy New Year, that
it shall be full of promise, peace and plenty, to each and all of
you, we hail its coming with confidence.
Christmas Carols
and Entertainment
Saturday night there was a Christ
mas celebration at the Monarch which
reflected much credit on all who took
part in it. The Schubert Student Or
chestra and the carols of a large
group of singers show that Farming
ton has a unusually talented aggre
gation of musicians The orchestra
fave the first number, which was
eartily encored. Then the Carol
Singers gave their sweet Christmas
songs, and Mr. Clyde Akers made a
short but delightful and appropriate
address,,. after which Mrs. Frank S.
Weber read in a most beautiful and
graphic manner Van Dyke's "The
First Christmas Tree.". Then more
music and the audience dispersed
greatly pleased with the entertain
ment. The beautiful stage reflected
much credit to the decorators, the
Christmas trees glistening in their
silver and white glory.
Following are the members of the
Schubers Student Orchestra:
Violins: Ila Abshier, Barbara Caro
line Tullock, Harriette Pease, Tom
Miles, Florence Radle, Dorothy Rick
us, Rodney Wulfert, Elmo Black, Ma
bel Croke, Minnie Goldstein, Theo
dore Giessing, Willa Ware, Dee Allen
McKinney, Marion Hoy, Zella Crack
el, E. J. McKinney, Jr., Harry Wil
liams; Flute: Lelia Davis; Saxophone
and Double Bass, Mr. Edward C.
Ban-oil; Clarinet, Chas. McCarthy;
Cornets, Wm. Gower and Mayfield
Spence,"Baritone, Leslie Evans; Cello,
Carroll Phillips; Bass Tuba, Ted
Graves; Piano, Rachel Murrill.
The choral singers from the Pres
byterian and Southern Methodist
Churches made the round of the town
on Christmas Eve, giving much
pleasure to those who heard them.
They took up a collection for charity
work this winter, which amounted to
about $22. It had originally been
planned to have four bands of sing
ers, but only two responded.
Splendid Hostelry
The Times editor and family spent
Christmas in St. Louis, where three
very enjoyable days were spent. The
extent of such enjoyment was large
ly due, we are persuaded, to our good
fortune in selecting a hotel, where it
seems to be a positive pleasure to the
management to extend to guests ev
ery courtesy, convenience and accom
modation possible to add to the sat
isfaction of guests. We refer to the
Warwick Hotel, 15th and Locust
streets.
There may be other hotels in St.
Louis that are just as good and me
dium priced as is the Warwick, but
The Times editor is frank to admit
that he has never found them. Man
ager Buchanan is never too preoccu
pied or engaged to give his guests
first consideration. In fact, "first at
tention to guests" appears to be the
mainspring on which his entire corps
of most competent assistants work.
One's wants are as nearly anticipated
here as is possible at any large hotel.
We are glad to recommend to all the
Warwick Hotel when they are in ot.
Louis and may desire quiet, elegant
Quarters, with the very best of ser
viceand without that constantly
beckoning hand for a "tip for some
real or fancied service. Anyone who
can appreciate good
treatment
will
enjoy stopping at the Warwick.
Leroy Matkin of Bismarck, one of
our best and most substantial citizens,
was in Farmington Thursday to in
terview the tax collector and help out
the county revenue. The Times ack
nowledges with thanks a friendly call
of Mr. Matkin, who advanced his sub
scription another year.
Christmas Chimes
at Hospital No. 4
While Christmas brought much joy
to all, perhaps, in Farmington and
vicinity, we doubt if it meant more
pleasure to anyone than it did to the
unfortunate patients in State Hospital
No. 4, to the number of about 700.
The splendid dinner that was served
in that institution last Monday noon
was the principal thing that brought
much pleasure and appreciation to all
those who are there confined, as well
as to the hundred and more attendants.
Among the good thines that were
served at that dinner was chicken and
dressing, mashed potatoes, cranberry
sauce, celery and mince pie. Every
thing was most temptingly served, and
the repast brought u feeling of true
thanksgiving to the hearts of many
of the diners. It was one of the best
and most substantial meals that has
ever been served in that institution,
for which Superintendent G. E.
Scrutchfield is entitled to much cre
dit. As an indication of the amount of
provisions necessary to serve such a
meal to the 830 people who that day
had dinner there, there was used there
that day GOO pounds of chicken, six
bushels of potatoes, two barrels mince
meat and one barrel of cranberries.
Supper that day was also noteworthy
for its sumptuousness, after which
each inmate was presented with a
quantity of good mixed candy, an
orange and two apples.
Boy of 9 Carelessly
Killed by Uncle
Little Steve Petrik, 9 years old, was
shot and instantly killed by his uncle,
Deso Kiesses, a foreigner, at Bonne
Terre early Christmas morning, evi
dently the result of drunkenness and
criminal carelessness.
That morning about 4 o'clock
Kiesses, who had been out with a gun
drinking and "celebrating", went to
the home of his brother-in-law,
Steve Petrik. He and another man
went into the kitchen and began play
ing with the children. After playing
with them awhile, little Steve, who it
seems was in bed in an adjoining
room, got up and asked his uncle why
he "didn't go to sleep." The space
between the boy and the man was
about ten feet, and Kiesses threw the
gun up to his shoulder and pointing
it at the boy, said, "you go to sleep."
The gun was discharged and the en
tire load of shot hit the boy, taking
effect below and to the inner side of
the right shoulder blade. The shot
made a hole about the size of a sil
ver dollar and death resulted almost
instantaneous.
The gun was a single barrel hani
merless with safety catch. An in
quest was held over the body of the
unfortunate little lad at 10 o'clock
Christmas morning, and the verdict of
the jury was to the effect that "de
ceased came to his death by gunshot
wound by Deso Kiesses."
A FREE PUBLIC LECTURE ON
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Will be Given by
JOHN RANDALL DUNN, C. S.
Member of the Board of Lectureship of the Mother Church, the
First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Mass.
At the MONARCH, FARMINGTON, MO.
SUNDAY AF'lEKNOON, JANUARY 7, 1917, AT 3 O'CLOCK.
All are welcome. No admission fee or ticket required.
Injunction Against
Barrel Houses
Last Saturday at Stc. Genevieve
the court entered a temporary injunc
tion against the barrel houses erf
Highley & Byington, near Farmingtoa
Junction, in Ste. Genevieve county,
which had become an intolerable
nuisance in its vicinity and to the peo
ple living along the roads leading
therefrom, even to Farmington. Stops
were taken by the Men's Gospel Team
which resulted in Judge Huck issuing
a temporary injunction enjoining both
of them till the further order of the
court. The barrel house of Wint
Jackson, near Desloge, was, if any
thing, even a worse nuisance to the
people in its vicinity.
No efforts semeed available to get
rid of it, till the Gospel Team took
up the matter about six weeks ago.
Having bjcome convinced that these
pests could be put out of business, the
Gospel Team began by sending a
committee to tell them if they did not
quit of their own account the Team
would close them up by law. The
answer of the joints seemed to regard
these admonitions as jokes. But they
have now learned that the advice of
the Gospel Team is worth heeding.
The manner in which the work of
the Team was done has been that
which becomes the true methods of
Christianity. It treated the owners
as though they were sinners that
we all are sinners, some of us more
seriously entangled in sin than others
and while the League shows its
force against those who are dragging
their fellows down, and, when neces
sary for the good of the community,
it holds out its hands to those deep
est dyed in sin and tells the story of
the great Master who gave his own
life to save just such as they are.
Yet its members are all in earnest
and claim only to be sinners saved by
the grace of the great Father of us
all. They see the need of this sav
ing grace day by day, for they real
ize that the fight against sin ts a
daily battle in which that saving grace
adds to success, valor and charity
more and more.
The manner of the League's efforts
with the barrel house keepers, is but
the spirit of the Gospel Team, and
what it has done is an earnest of the
things it hopes to do through the
force of the same grace which has ac
complished its mite in the plan to ov
ercome evil with good. Everyone is
invited to become a member of the
team. It needs the help of everyone,
and everyone who joins it honors
both himself and the Team, and. so
takes pride in it. It seeks its own
good by accomplishing good .for
others. Q.
The Municipal
Christmas Tree
Among the successful undertakings
of the year, Farmington may well
pride herself on her Municipal Christ
mas Tree Celebration.
The committee of women who as
sumed charge of the work when the
City Council turned it over to the
Women's Organizations, labored inde
fatigably to make the affair a suc
cess, and were well repaid for their
efforts when a packed house greeted
the first number by the orchestra at
the Monarch Saturday night. The
stage was beautifully decorated with
Christmas trees, and the program,
as published last week, was listened
to attentively by the large audience.
On Sunday night, after the Christ
mas exercises at the various churches,
bands of carol-singers went through
different parts of the city, singing
wherever a lighted candle was placed
in the window. A neat sum of money
was realized in this way, which will
be used for charity.
The Committee wishes to express
its thanks to the managers of the
Monarch for the use of heir building,
and for their kindness and courtesy
to those who had charge of the dec
orating and arranging; to the Schu
bert students and the singers who add
ed so much to the pleasure of the ex
ercises, and to all who helped so
faithfully to make our third Munici
pal Christmas Tree a success.
DELIGHTFUL ENTERTAINMENT
The entertainment at the High
School Auditorium last Thursday
evening, under the direction of Mrs.
Eisenberg-Beard and Miss May Cover,
was a most delightful affair, the only
draw-back being the intensely disa
greeable weather, which kept num
bers away. A nice audience, howev
er, was present, and they were well
repaid for braving the elements.
Anything that bears the stamp of
Mrs. Eisenberg-Beard and Miss May
Cover is worth while.
James Robinson, who has been quite
ill with pneumonia, is recovering.
