THE BARM DAILY TIMES
PRICK, ONE CENT.
IJAIUtK, VERMONT, .FRIDAY, DKCKMRKR 20. 1910.
VOL. XX NO.
243.
K
GERMANS WENT
TO THIRD LINE
OF THE FRENCH
Pierced Positions on South
ern Slope of Dead Man's
Hill and Also on Hill 304,
Capturing Seven Machine
Guns and Bringing Back
220 Prisoners
ATTACK PRECEDED BY
HARD BOMBARDMENT
French Official Statement
Admits Reverse but De
clares That Only a Few
Germans Got into Their
Lines French Counter
Attacks Are Said to Have
Failed
Berlin, by wireless, Dei;. 29. On the
Verdun front yesterday German troops,
transferred from the Somme, entered
French positions on hill 304 and on the
southern slope of Dead Man's hill, the
war office announces. The Germans ad
vanced to the second and third French
positions, capturing seven machine guns.
Several French counter attacks were re
pulsed, the statement says.
The Germans brought back 220 prison-
Paris, Doc. 2!). German troops last
night delivered an attack in strong force
on a three-kilometre front between Hill
304 and Dead Alan's Hill, one part being
penetrated and this only by a tew Hos
tile troops.
The attack was delievered after a long
and violent artillery preparation. North
of Verdun on the right bank of the
Meuse a strong German reconnaisance
was dispersed east of Hardaumont.
BRITISH REPLACE FRENCH.
Take Over Another Section of the West
ern War Front
London. Dee. 20. The continuation of
the British offensive along the Somme
front is impossible so long as the present
weather lasts, Major-General Frederick
II. Maurice, chief director of military op
erations at the war office, informed the
.Associated Tress yesterday.
'I told you some time ago," he said,
"that our offensive would not cease dur
ing the winter, but it must be apparent
from the daily reports that no real battle
has been offered injthat sector since Oc
tober. In the first place, we underesti
mated the effect of the shelling on the
terrain. The country over which the ad
vance will h'ave to be made is thickly
sprinkled with shell holes filled with wa
ter. Also, never having held the same
line in any other winter, we underesti
mated the'effect of the fog in the valley
of the Somme.
"There have been frequent frosts, not
severe enough to harden the ground, but
sufficient to form fogs, making artillery
observation fire practically useless and
also preventing the drying of the ground.
"The French arrived at the "same deci
sion and transferred their attention to
Verdun, with results which you know.
We may be able to resume in March, as
We found the ground at Xeuve Chapelle
in fairly good shape in March, 1015, al
though "it had been very bad during the
winter.
"Unable to continue the offensive for
the present, we have done the next best
thing. The taking over of a section of
the French line has kept us busy during
the past 0 days. The operation has
been successful, ana i will be glaa to tell
vou the exact exteat of the line taken
over when I am sure the Germans know
the point of junction.
"In Rumania the first Rumanian army;
which ban borne the brunt of the fight
insr, has entirely withdrawn, and is now
re-forming in Moldavia, while its place
has been taken by the Russians. In Do
Imidja, the line has been moved back in
alignment with the battle front north of
the Danube. In this region, both our al
lies and the enemy are suffering from
adverse weather conditions."
ON GALLIP0LI PENINSULA.
British Naval Airplanes Conducted Bom
bardment. London, Dec. 29. A British official
communication issued last evening says:
"On Tuesday a squadron of naval air
planes bombarded enemy camps at Gala
ta. on the Gallipoli peninsula, with suc
cessful results.
"Wednesday a squadron of seaplanes
attacked ami destroyed the Chicaldar
bridge, 18 mile east of Adana (Asia Minor)."
TEUTONS WIN IN RUMANIA.
Captured Several Positions, Taking 1400
Prisoner.
Berlin, by wireless. Dee. 29. In Ru
mania yesterday Teutonic troops cap
tured several positions, taking I40O pris
oners, IS machine guns and three cannon.
NATIVE OF DETROIT.
Thomas C Casgrain, postmaster general.
Dead.
Ottawa, Dec. 29. Thomas Cha- Cas
f rain, postmaster general of Canada. died
to uit of pneumonia. He was born ia
Ivtro'it in ISSi'
SMALL SIGNED HIS
WIFE'S NAME TO
INSURANCE PAPER
Testimony Brought Out in Murder Trial
Waa to the Effect That Small Got
J20.000 Policy After Repeat
ed Requests.
Ossipec, N. H., Dec. 2!). The joint in
surance policy for $2ii,iK)0, which became
payable to Frederick L. Small on the
death of his wife, was obtained at his
repeated request and after application in
which he signed his wife's name, it was
developed by the testimony to-day at
Small's trial for the murder of his wife.
The prosecution at the forenoon ses
sion also introduced further evidence of
an alleged threat by Small to kill his
wife. George Kennett, who drove Small
to the railroad station several hours be
fore , the fire, in the Small cotUge wad
discovered, testified that the defendant
tnrned toward the house and said "Good
bve" as they were about to' drive away
although Kennett saw no one. Small has
contended that his wife was alive when
he left home.
George 1). Emerson of Norfolk Downs,
Muss., testified he has a summer place at
Lake Ossipee. In the spring of 1914 he
met Small. "He came to my shop and
inquired about the Smith cottage. Lat
er that season lie came to live there and
I made his acquaintance. I went to
Small's house frequently."
"What was Small's manner towards
his wife!"
"I should say he was a good deal in
the nature of a master."
Attv. Mathews objected to the char
acterization of the witness and J wig
Kivel instructed Atty. Gen. Tuttle, the
Questioner, to eoiifine the witness to
what he saw and heard.
The. answer was ordered stricken from
the record on further objection. The
witness had supper at Small's house Sept.
25 last. He remained till 10 p. m. and
played cards.
"What occurred that evening that at
tracted your attention?" "The first thing
I noticed waa Mrs. Small coughing and
sobbing."
"How did he speak to her?" "I don't
remember what hp said but he said it in
a rough, ugly wav. She was very much
distressed, trying to control her sobbing
as best she could. Her face showed she
had been cryinjr."
"Did you ever notice S'mnll's shop?"
Yes.
"What did he have there?" "A general
line of mechanical tools."
"Have you ever seen him working
there?" "Yes."
"Did Small own a motor boat ?" "Yes."
"When did he take it out of the water
last fall?" "About a week before I left
on Sept. 27."
Witness said Small purchased: tive-gal-Ion
lots of gasoline four times last sum
mer. Cross-examined by Ajtty. Mathews, Mr.
Emerson said he had several meals m
Small's house at Lake Ossipee.
"You and Small had some trouble?"
"Yes."
Some difference?" "Yes."
Whether he went to you and apolo
gized? "I don't remember any abject
apolocies.
"But he went to you and talked it over
with you?" "Yes."
" "And it wa in the nature of an apol
ogvx "ves.
"There was a time when he went to
you and talked matters over with you?"
"Yes. we had trouble the first of the
summer, and when I went away in the
late fall, we spoke together for the first
time."
That was in 1916!" "No, I think It
was in 1914; I'm not sure."
Mrs. Carrie J. Emerson followed her
husband as a witness. She did not ac
cept Small's invitation to take supper at
his house Sept. 23, 191. Later she went
in response to an invitation from Mrs.
Small. They plaved cards.
"During the evening Mr. Small spoke
to his wife in an ugly "way, saying,
'You played the queen.' She cried, and
went sobbing to the kitchen. .She stayed
three or four minutes. Later when I
went to my room in our cottage I heard
a yell from.the Small cottage. It sound
ed like woman's voice."
"Did you mention the fact to your
husband?" "I did."
JOIN IN HOPE
FOR WAR'S END
Denmark, Sweden and Nor
way Support President
Wilson's Plea
AND DESPATCH NOTE
TO BELLIGERENTS
Declare They Take Action in
the Interests of Humanity
ENGINEER DEAD IN WRECK.
Henry L. Stearns of New London Victim
on New Haven Line.
Boston, Dec. 29. Henry L. Stearns of
Ocean avenue, New London, Conn., for
30 years a freight engineer in the em
ploy of the New Haven railroad, was
crushed beneath his own engine and in
stantly killed late yesterday afternoon
ami four other trainmen were severely
hurt when the freight train, which he
was driving sides wiped the locomotive of
passenger train No. 7075, near the Dor
chester station, rolled down a steep em
bankment and turned over.
William A. Boyle of 242 Broadway,
South Boston, engineer of the passenger
locomotive, jumped with the crash, sus
taining a broken left leg. His fireman,
H. L. Friedman, who also jumped, was
severely bruised. W. A. Braun of Grot
on, Conn., fireman of the freight engine,
received abrasions of the left arm and
leg, while L. I Sharp of Providence, the
forward brakeman,, was scalded by es
caping steam from a severed boee.
DISEASE MAV SPREAD.
London, Dec. 29. The Scandinavian
governments have sent a joint note to
the belligerents supporting the peace
note of President Wilson.
A Rcuter dispatch from Copenhagen
says the Danish, Swedish and Norwegian
government have instructed their le
gations to address the governments of
the belligerent countries' notes in which
the Scandinavian countries, adhering to
the note of President Wilson concerning
measures to be adopted for facilitating
a durable peace, declare they would coiv
sidcr themselves as failing in their duty
toward their respective peoples and to
ward humanity as a whole if they did
not express their most profound sym
pathy with every effort which may con
tribute toward putting an end to the
sufferings and losses, moral and material,
which are ever growing in consequence of
the war.
The three governments, is conclusion,
cherish the hope that the initiative tak
en bn President Wilson, will lead to a
result worthy of the generous spirit
which prompted hU action.
eil and considered in the friendly spirit
which is apparent in the communication
of the president, (the) noble initiative
of the president looking to the creation
of buses for the foundation of a lasting-
pea .
"The president discloses the aim which
lies next to liia heart ami leaves the
choice of the way open.
"A direct exchange of views appears
to the imperial government aa the most
suitable way of arriving at the desired
result. The Imperial government has
the honor, therefore, in the sense of its
declaration of the l'3si instant, which
offered the hand of peace negotiations
to propose speedy assembly on neutral
ground, of delegates of the warring
states.
"It is also the view of the imperial
government that the great work for tho
prevention of future wars can first le
taken up only after the ending of tho
present conflict of exhaustion, the lm
perial government is ready, when this
point has been reached to co-operate wltn
the United State in the this sublime
task."
VILLISTAS DEFEATED
IN NORTH MEXICO
Official Report Coming Out of Mexico
City Tells of Carrania Successes
During thi Past Few
Days.
Mexico City, Dec. 20. It is officially
reported that the Villistas have suffered
several severe defeats in tho north dur
ing the past few days.
SEEKS MORE DELAY.
Carrania
WRAPPED IN SILENCE.
Infantile Paralysis Feared By Dr. Simon
Flexner.
New York, Dec. 2!). In an address last
night on "Infantile Paralysis and the
Public Health." Dr. Simon Flexner, di
rector of the Rockefeller institution for
medil research, declared that he m
"more or less fearful that infantile paral
yse may be more widespread in the
United State next summer, but there
may be, perhaps, not so much of it in th
eastern states."
Dt. Flexner asserted that it is now
possible to sht that the disease is in-
Officials of Washington Government De
. cide to Keep Mum on Peace.
Washington, Dec. 29. A policy of ab
solute silence regarding the peace nego
tiations has been adopted by President
Wilson and Secretary Lansing. It was
stated officially yesterday that all steps
henceforth will be regarded as confiden
tial, that no comment will be made on
any development and that rumors will
not be discussed.
The decision to pursue this course was
made known after the state department
had received the official texts of the Ger
man and Austrian replies to President
Wilson's identic notes to the belligerents,
proposing a discussion of peace terms
and after it was learned that the Teu
tonic powers would be willing to permit
a , confidential exchange ot tentative
terms, if it became necessary to do so
to bridge the gap threatening to prevent
a gathering of peace delegates.
In manv quarters the official attitude
was construed as indicating that secret
exchanges were expected to follow, if
they did not precede, the formal answers
of the entente nations to the notes of
President Wilson and the central powers.
Because of the highly confidential nature
of such negotiations, it is pointed out,
the intermediary would be obliged to re
frain from admitting even that they were
in progress.
So far as the entente governments are
concerned, it is understood that little if
any confidential information has reached
here to shed more light on their attitude
than has been given publicly in the
speeches of their premiers and the com
ment of their press. Consequently there
is no disposition here to doubt that the
allies unanimously will refuse to enter
any sort of peace conference until Ger
many has indicated clearly on what con
ditions she will stop fighting.
On the Teutonic side, while the reply
to President Wilson is regarded by the
German embassy as complying with j
President Wilson's suggestion in offering I
method of procedure, Germany is said
to be willing to consider other sugges
tions regarding methods from any quar
ter, including her enemies.
The views of the German government
further are represented as being as fol
lows:
If the entente considers that guaran
tees for the future are the princiival ele
ments to be achieved and, lacking confi
dence in the German government, insists
upon knowing something of the guaran
tees that Germany is willing to give, the
Berlin government might make some dec
laration regarding the principles to which
she is willing to subscribe, leaving details
for settlement at the proposed confer
ence, the (ierman government considers
that there is little to be gamed by go-
insr into anv lengthv discussion of guar
antees for the future, with the present
war in progress. In this connection, Ger
many, it is asserted, has never intended
that the conference suggested should re
sult immediately in the establishment of
peace. It is considered that it necessar-
ly would be of a preluninarv nature to
determine whether it might be possible
to end the war.
According to the German diplomats,
the plan Germany Is proceeding upon
would provide that the delegates should
first agree upon territorial and immedi
ately connected terms, and that a pre
liminary tentative treaty then should be
settled upon. This completed, the tier
man idea is to hare all the neutral
called in to participate in consideration
of the questions of guarantees for the
future. They regard it as a matter for
the conference to settle whether the neu
tral nations should become signatory to
the entire peace treaty or only to that
part having to do with guarantees for
the maintenance of peace in the future,
such as freedom of the seas. limitation
of armaments, formation of world
league to enforce peace, and establish
ment of an international court of arbitration.
Has Not Flatly Repudiated
Protocol.
Washington, Deo. 29. One more ap
peal for modification of the protocol pro
viding for the withdrawal of American
troops from Mexico is made by General
Carranza in a message delivered to Sec
retary Iane yesterday by Luis Cabrera,
chairman of the Mexican members of the
joint commission.
The Mexican first chief replied to the
insistent American demand that the pro
tocol signed by hi spokesmen at At
lantic City be ratified with an 800 word
document in which he failed to accede to
the demand, but refrained from writing
anything that could be construed as a
Hut repudiation. J
' The latest suggestion now will be con
sidered by the three American represen
tatives Secretary Lane, J, R. Mott and
Judge George Grey. S
Early next week a joint session of the
Mexican-American commission will be
held at which the Americans will give
the Mexicans their answer and on its
nature depends the future course of the
commissioners, who were directed more
than four months ago to effect if pos
sible the adjustment of questions at is
sue between the two countries.
It was learned that the Mexican com
missioners were confident that no in
superable barrier had been raised by
Carranza. It was asserted that the ut
most care had been exercised to keep out
of the reply any expressions of sentiment
that might make the situation more com
plex or that would in any way offend
the representatives of the American gov
ernment.
The chief insistence of Carranza has
been that the American troops should be
withdrawn .unconditionally, which the
American commissioners would not con
sider. It was indicated that Carrania 'a.
insistence on that point was less pro
nounced now and that the change had
been wrought largely by the altered mili
tary situation in northern Mexico.
There appeared reason to believe that ,
one of the conditions to which Carranza
now objects is that under which he would
be obliged to garrison the territory va
cated by the Americans as they marched
out. It was pointed out that since the
protocol was drafted the increased activ
ities of Villa and the steady growth ot
his army of bandits has made it difficult
tor Carranza to agree to use any con
siderable part of his army in the district
now occupied by Pershing when it might
be necessary to use the same force in
meeting more active moves of Villa at
other points.
Carranza holds that his government is
doing all it humanly can to restore or
der in the north and that it will continue
to do so, but that the. presence of the
American troops on Mexican soil is mak
ing the task more difficult by giving
Villa and his lieutenants a pretext for
urging the disaffected to join him in his
fight against Carranza.
An interesting development in the
Mexican situation generally was present
ed yesterday in rejiorts to the state and
war deportments of the changing condi
tions in Mexico. When the commission
ers adjourned in Atlantic City there were
ENTENTE REPLY
IS COMPLETED
After Several Conferences,
Says Report from
London
MUST BE SUBMITTED
TO ALL THE ALLIES
It May Be Delivered to Ger
many by Wednesday
of Next Week
London, Dec 29. As the result of con
ferences, which have been in progress
several days, the entente reply to the
German note is now completed. It could
go forward to-day or to-morrow except
for the necessary formality of transmit
ting it to all the allies before final de
livery. This means that the delivery
will be made the first or the middle ot
next week, perhaps on Wednesday.
The delivery will be made at Paris,
after which the communication will lie
forwarded to Germany through the Unit
ed State. The reply is a very long document.
Unusual optimism Is shown here on
the result of the final form the note has
taken, which is believed to be such that
it will meet with satisfaction in Wash
ington. The reply to the American note
will follow within a few days after the
delivery of the reply to Germany.
POULTRY THEORIES TOLD.
TURKEY'S REPLY RECEIVED.
Was Substantially the Same as Ger
many'! and Austria's.
Washington. D. C Dee. 29. Turkey's
reply to President Wilson's peace note
was received to-day at the state depart
ment, substantially the same as Ger
many's and Austria's.
ONLY 3 DROWNED
AS BOAT HIT MINE
Russian Steamship Kursk Waa on the
Way From Archangel to New York
One of the Lost Was a
Paasenger.
New York, Dec. 29. The Russian
steamship Kursk, while bound from
Archangel, Russia, for New York with
12 passengers, hit a mine on Nov. 29 off
Kirkwall, Scotland. One passenger and
two members of the crew were drowned
while the lifeboats were being launched.
The passengers and crew drifted all
night in open boat before being picked
up. J lie steamer was towea mvo rvua.
wall bv British patrol boats.
The. news of the accident was brought
here to-day by rescued passengers, who
arrived in the steamer Lapland Irom Liv
erpool.
CAN DRAFT CITIZENS.
Regulation for Government of Guard
Under National Defense Act.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 29. Every
able-bodied male citizen of the United
States between the atres of 18 and 45
years is held liable for service in the na
tional guard in war time, without fur
ther act of Congress, by war department
reputations for the government of the
guard issued under the national defense
act. In a circular prepared nearly two
months rco but made public only yester
day, the militia bureau directs that
where a national guard regiment is
called out for war service, a reserve
training battalion t fill vacancies at the
front shall be organized out of the na
tional guard reserve and by voluntary
enlistment.
"If for any reason," the order contin
ues, "there shall not be enough reservists
or enough voluntary enlistments to or
ganize or to keep the reserve battalions
at prescribed strength, a sullicient num
TEXT OF GERMAN NOTE.
Differs Somewhat from tha Unofficial
Statement.
Washington, Dec. 20. The official text
of Germany's note which differs mine in
fertiou and contagious and U caused by phraseology from the unofficial follows:
living micro-organism. "The imperial government has aocepl-
few administration officials who believed j ber of the unorganized militia shall be
Carranza 's power was seriously menaced, j drafted by the president to maintain
Since then official reports have shown "l'h battalion or other lesser reserve
nirth in the different reactionary I unit at the prescribed strength.
ry
dan
a strength
groups that now is recognized
gerous.
The report persisted yesterday that
Ambassador Designate Arredondo had
been recalled by his government and that
he was to be succeeded by Consul De
Negri of San Francisco, who would be in
charge without diplomatic rank. Mr.
Arredondo denied the story categorical
ly and the state department was with
out information.
RUSSIAN SHIP ARRIVES.
The Vologda is the First of That Na
tionality to Arrive in Months.
New York, Dec. 29. For the first time
in nearly three months a ship flying the
Russian nag docked yesterday at a New
York pier. She was the steamship Vol
ogda out of Archangel, Dec. 3, and is her
in ballast to take cargo for a port as
yet unnamed.
Those whose interest are associated
with Russian ships, think the vessels
that formerly plied between this port
and Archangel are being used to trans
port supplies from England to Russia,
via the ice-free port of Kolabay, nnder
the protection of war craft.
TWO SHIPS SUNK.
British Copsewaod and Norwegisa Steam
ship Ida.
London, Dec. 29. The British steam
ship Cop-wood ha been sunk and t'
Norwegian steamship Ida
sunk.
The language follows closely that of
the national defense act. in which the un
organized militia is defined as including
every able-bodied male citizen within the
prescrilied age limit or those who have
declared their intention oi Decoming citi
zens. The national guard regulations, which
will be amplified in great detail later,
also strike at the problem of dependent
families of soldiers, which has cost the
government several millions of dollars al
ready through the border mobilization.
Recruiting officers for the national guard
are directed to discourage the enlistment
of married men or those with others de
pendent upon thorn. Such persons are to
be accepted only for reasons in the public
interest, men who wish to become offi
cer being the only class specifically ex
cepted. The regulations provide that no officer
of the guard hereafter shall be recog
nized as such under the defense act, un
less he shall have subscribed to an oath
binding him to obey the order of the
president and of the governor of his
state. Appointments will he made on
recommendations to the secretary of
war from governors or the commanding
officers of atate or territorial unit of
the guard, and after proper physical and
mental examination bv boards of officers.
IV-motions will he handled in the same
way, and any officer who fails in the ex
amination as to hi professional ability
cannot come up for re-examination with
in a year. j
After three rears'. active service, or'
George P. Coffin, Judge of Recent Show,
Gave Talk In Bar re.
Last evening members of the Vermont
Poultry association ami other poultry
men who are interested in the breeding
of birds, gathered to the numticr of about
30 in the court room at the city building
to listen to the lectins given by George
I'. Coffin of Freeport, Me., judge of tho
1 1th annual exhibit of the association
The remarks made by the seaker were
very interesting and helpful to those of
the audience who were doubtful a to
the methods by which they could improve
their birds and the manner in which they
should properly care for the flock.
Mr. Coffin opened his lecture by tell
ing of the four types of hens which one
will find in the world on a tour of inspec
tion. The first and most common of the
quartet is the mongrel, which is found
in nearly every barnyard through the
country, they being obtained by the con
stant mixing of breeds and lack of care
in raising the tdiickens. The second class
is that of the mixed strains, where the
poiiltrvnian crosses his breeds once, thus
getting a bird which often lays well, but
is inferior to the pure bloods. The third
type is the pure bloods; they are birds
that are bred in the same strains but(
lack purer strains. The fourth species is
that of the standard bred, which is the
nearest perfect of any of the fowl kind,
they being bred bv the experienced poul-
try men, until nearly all the defect are
gone and they can be placed in a class by
themselves.
In speaking of the egg producing of
the different breeds, he stated that iU
would be a difficult task for any man to
give anything definite as to asJiat breed
of bens were the best layers, as hens
which have been tested at the same sta
tion with the same method of trap nest
ing two years in succession will differ
greatly in their egg laying qualities;
one year a certain breed may lay better,
and the next year the other strain will
have the better record.
In the pure standard bred bird there
are about 100 varieties in the United
States to-day which are recognized by
the American Poultry association, each
and every one of these breeds starting
from one class of fowl ages ago. To-biy
the wild bird from which they originafed
is extinct. The different strains have
come from several countries, as the Leg
horn from Italy, the game from Spain,
the Hamburg from (Jermany. the Orping
ton from England and the Rhode Island
Reds, Plymouth Rocks and Wyandot ws
from the United States..
Remarks about the work of the judges
brought to the minds of the listeners the
extremely hard situation that a judge is
placed in when giving out the prizes at
an exhibit, as the fowls in order to be
nerfeet. as the standard bred are sup
posed to he. are rated by their color of
feathers, eves, color of the legs and the
tails of the birds. A ferture of a perfect
bird that manv would not know is the
absence of the least amount of fuzz n
the legs or toes of the fowl, as even one
plume of the fur. on n toe would dis
qualify a bird from the show, thus giv
ing a prize to a bird that might be in
ferior in every other way.
In order to keep up a strain and make
prize producers, one must plan to have
the flock in a good condition, as white
feathers are apt to come out if the hens
are a little weak or sick in any way. De
fects also are apt to be inherited by one
strain from the older birds, many cases
of this kiml being known among the big
poultrymen.
In his closing words, Mr. Coffin stated
that in order to put a bird in condition
for an exhibit discontinue the old meth
ods of soap and water and let the. feed
do the work. Yellow corn for all fowls
with color is the best thing to liven up
the feathers and brighten the combs and
legs, while boiled rice and milk is better
for the white feathered bird, as the yel
low com was said by experts to have a
tendency to color the feathers a dingy
shade of the faintest yellow.
Fowl Exhibits Taken Home.
Prize birds domiciled in the Church
street gymnasium since Monday enjoyed
a farewell serenade this morning before
stepping into their shipping crates and
preparing to journey homeward. The ex
odus really lcgan late last night witn
the closing of the 11th annual exhibit of
the Vermont Poultry association, which
opened Tuesday morning. All of the
birds endured the admiring gaze of many
visitors with wonderful fortitude and
except for an occasional cluck of exhilara
tion at tlie prospect or getting hoiho
again, the prize winners were decently
circumspect and the casual caller at the
gym. this morning could not have dis
cerned the difference between the feath
ered members that were honored with
blue ribbons and those that had to be
content with less conspicuous colors.
Officers are satisfied that the associa
tion has continued to justify its exist
ence and .point to the heavy registration
of birds this year as an indication that
the annual poultry show is a fixture,
l'onltrv breeders from four New England
states were attracted to Barre by the big
show and there is plenty of cumulative
evidence to show that they are wen
nleased with their visit. Until rather
late last night many people were taking
advantage of the last opportunity for in
specting the exhibit and an added and
unexpected feature of the 191 show was
h frc lecture civen bv Judge Coffin at
city hall on the closing night. On a date
in the near future not definitely deter
mined, the officers of the association will
meet to cheek up the accounts tor tne
vear. The antiual meeting is not far dis
tant and it is expected that the city
where the exhibit is to be held in 1917
will be decided at that time.
BOND ISSUE
PLAN DRAWN
Wilson and Congressional
Leaders Agree Tentatively
$180,r r,000 NEEDED
ro MEET DEFICIT
iich Will Confront Gov
ernment on June
30, 1918
Washington, D. C, Doc. 29. President
Wilson has tentatively agreed with ad
ministration leaders in Congress on a
bond issue to meet part of the treasury
deficit which confronts the government
for the fiscal year ending June .'10, 1018.
It is estimated that about $ltio.lHH).0n0
will bo needed. President Wilson i
working on other plans for raising addi
tional revenue.
PROMOTED TO BOSTON JOB.
W. R. Eastman to Leave St. Albans Re-
signs as Alderman.
St. Albans, Dec. 20. W. R. Eastman,
who for many years was chief clerk to
the general passenger agent, J. W. Han
ley, of the Central Vermont railroad, has
been appointed general agent of the pas
senger department of the Central Ver
mont and Grand Trunk railroads, with
offices in the. Old South building in Bos
ton. He succeeds E. H. Boynton, New
England passenger agent, retired.
Mr. Eastman resigned to-day aa alder
man from ward 1 in the city government,
but it is not likely that a special election
will be called to fill the vacancy because
of the expense entailed, but the resigna
tion will not be accepted till just before
the usual spring election.
Mr. Eastman went into the employ
ment of the Central Vermont railroad in
1S!9 following his graduation from Dart
mouth college. He was successively tick
et agent, traveling passenger agent and
chief clerk to the general passenger
agent.
EDWARDS WELLINGTON.
Former Williamstown Man and East
I Barre Woman Married.
Angier M. J. Edwards and Miss Laura
Julia Wellington were united in mar
riage Thursday evening by Rev. James
Ramage at his home on Camp street in
the presence "of ne'ar relatives.. They
were attended by Mr. and Mrs. Earl H.
Dickey of East Barre, the latter being a
sister of the bride. The single ring serv
ice was used.
The bride is a daughter of Mrs. Jo
sephine Wellington of East Barre, a
graduate of Spaulding high school, class
of 1013, and one of East Barre's esti
mable voting women. She has been en
gaged iii teaching for the past three years
in the public schools of Orange, North
field and Williamstown. ' The groom is a
well-known Williamstown young man
and is engaged as a machinist at Hart
ford, Conn. , ,, t-j
The manv friends of Mr. and Mrs. Ed
wards wish for them a prosperous fu
ture. After a wedding trip their home
will be in Hartford,. Conn.
MANY WORKMEN DISCHARGED.
Because
FURNISHING CHARGED.
Fred Duval of Montpelier Arrested by
Chief Sinclair.
On a di-closure warrant issued by
Magistrate II. W. Scott. Fred Duval of
Montpelier was arrested by t hief Sin
clair in Barre this afternoon and locked j
up at police headquarters on a charge
of furnishing liquor illegally. Duval's
War Munitions Contract Has
Been Filled.
Bellows Falls, Dec, 2!!. Between 10ft
and 200" men employed by the Vermont
Varm Murhinn company ol this town
have received notice that because the
firm's contract with the Camlian Car and
Foundry company has expired their
services" will not be needed for a time
A f 1 Ofl
The plant has been running day and
night for the last 18 months making
shrapnel and high explosive shells for
the Russian government.
Gen. M. G. Williams, treasurer of the
firm, stated that the chances are favor
able that his company will get a new
contract. He stated that because of re
el nt developments in Europe and because
the Russian government does not know
what the near future will bring forth it
is making no munition contracts at pres
ent.
Gen. Williams stated that the men em
ployed at the plant before the concern
heg'an to make munitions would undoubt
lv be retained even though no new shell
contract is obtained.
Many of the men employed have come
to Beliows Falls directly from the farm
and have made more in a week than they
ever made before in month doing farm
work.
FUNERAL OF MRS. E. J. RULFO
Was Held From Home of Her Brother,
John Mackenxie.
Funeral services for Mr. Annabelle
M. Rulfo. wife of Egidio J. Rulfo of
North Main street, whose death Tuesday
afternoon followed a long illness, were
held at the home of her brother, John
Mackenzie of Beck ley court , Thursday
afternoon at 2 o'clock. Kev. r.dgar . ross-
Und. pastor of the rirst ITesbytenan
church, was the officiating clergyman ana
the bearers were: Alexander .Mackenzie,
John Mackenzie ami i.eorge .uacisenzir,
brothers of Mrs. Rulfo, and Louis Bot
ti;gi. a brother-in-law. There was a
Urge gathering of friends and many flor-
detention is the outcome of a story told.-., irt, were contributed. Interment
in city court this morning when a fel-jwa9 made in Hop cemetery,
low townman of Duval's. Joseph Chic-
quette. told of procuring from him thej DIED OF SHOCK.
liquor whereby he became intoxicated, j
Chieouette is describe,! on the police rr.n GoodenouEB of West Danville Died
court record of Barre and Montpelier a i Thursday.
an naonimi aniuiru, ana as soon -
his narrative was corapl,-ted, the jii.'pe
made a warrant for Duval's arrest. Ex
haustive inquiries in Barre and Mont
pelier and snrroundinir towns failed to
lorate the man, but this aftcrniwn hen ;
Chief Sim lair was lookinc
Kf-n the orvsnrrat ions are disbanded,
reported national guard officer nay pass into the person, he encountered Ihnal ir
national guard reserve him under arrest inuned-atcly.
Wet Danville. Dec. 29. Frank Goode
noiigh of this place passed away at the
home of his iter, Mrs. George Cook,
yesterday morning at 5 o'clock. He a
itri. ken "with a iaralvt'ie shock Friday
for another morning and tailtl tt rally, i ne junerai
laced will be held from the late home at West
laT die, Saturday morning at 10 o'clock.
