NEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
.il
O50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE, NEW UEXICO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29. 1916.
NUMBER 118
IN WICHITA
LOANDISTRIGT
FARM LOAN BANK FOR DIS
TRICT NINE EMBRACES
NEW MEXICO, COLORADO,
KANSAS AND OKLAHOMA
WILL COMMENCE
BUSINESS SOON
pointed by the federal board. The
terms of these directors will be
three years, and they will elect offi
cers from among their number.
STATE SUPERINTENDENTS
OFFICE FORCE SELECTED
J. H. .Wagner has completed the
organization of his force, for the
office of public instruction. John V.
Conway has been selected as as
sistant superintendent; E. Pack, who
has just closed a term as superin
tendent of Quay county, will be
chief clerk; Mrs. C. D. Miller, of
Las Cruces, formerly of Santa Fe,
as industrial supervisor; Miss Eve
Wientge, as stenographer.
As Mr. Wagner and every One of
his assistants have had long years
of experience in educational work,
then- is no question but what his
otiice will be well prepared to direct
education in New Mexico.
SOMEBODY LEAKED
AND URGE PROFITS
WERE MADE THEREBY
President's note became public pro
perty.
The incident serves to emphasize
th power which an administration
NEWS OP THE PRESIDENTS
PEACE PROPOSALS GOT TO the credit of American
BY INSIDERS
NEW SYSTEM SHOULD BE A SANTA FE COUNTY HAS NEW
GREAT HELP TO FARMERS, SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT
PROVIDING THEM WITHi
CAPITAL AT EASY RATE OF
nods upon values in this countrv.
What the President's note did upon
a large scale which affected every
industry whose securities are dealt
in on the market, can be done to
a lesser degree with individual se
curities by any one of a group of
officials whose duties bring them in
to contact with the industrial life
ot tne nation. This power, it is to
American Dublic life
TIPW VOlUT Aire An nv l1 rec,0Ta na rarely, if ever, been
atiW YOB& AHEAD OF I abused and it is significant that it
SCHEDULE AND THE SURE .1 ?nly withC the past few. J3"
i that anyone has ever seriously sur-
DROP WAS DISCOUNTED i mised that personal gain or any
oincr private motive lay behind any
course of action on the government's
part. That such surmises are now
rife is due in part to the system
which c'otlies officials with such
enormous power and in part to the
aclnnfa u.i.l, ...I.ImI. -
..... , , .vv. .in wuiiii tOHSCl vauve-
wnsons note to the r-uropean bel-; minded neonl. h
I ligercnts was sent to the newspapers I much of the activity in some circles
I at eight o'clock in the evening of of,,ne P""ent administration.
IWednrsdnv rw ?n t. . rl,e remedy is partly legislatvo
, . It' 'it- l"hy rnuting the power of adminis-1 the circplation
;b rc. eased for nub icinnn iint l.tr-,i; (r:,. ... i"e urct "anon
I I . n , , V. I11MUI3 till U 1J.IIIIV DOII11-' I,
after midiiiclit. Vet at ah. cal. I.v speirtr . i. .!. ,t,I '., ; petitions address
BIG BOND ISSUE
FOR BETTER ROADS
IN GRANT COUNTY
Special to State Record.
Washington, Dec. 27.-
Presidcnt
would be so slight as to be scarcely
noticed by the taxpayers.
400 Signature Necessary
The law provides that in order to
secure the calling of an election to
vote on bonds, 10 per cent of the
qualified voters must sign the peti
tions. Thus approximately 400 names
only would be necessary.
Thereupon the petitions would be
presented to the board of county
commissioners, which revise the)
signatures on the petitions and, if
satisfied that thes were bonafide.
ED AT ONCE FOR THREE would within 60 days and not less
jthan yu days issue a proclamation
calling an election, giving the voters
of the entire county an opportunity
iof expressing their will at the polls
on tile proposition.
Better Roads Imperative.
Grant county, ranking a very close
, I second to Coifax, the richest county
' in the state in assessed valuation,
to lias one ot the poorest road systems
the state. I he need of bdter
PETITIONS TO BE CIROULAT-
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOL
LARS BOND ISSUE TO IM
PROVE THE ROADS
The Chamber of Commerce
Silver City is behind a scheme
vote bonds in the sum of $.100,000 in
for building roads in Grant coun- 'rVadf has lonK h.vcn "cognized as an
, Tl . ,, , ... , absolute necessity, but the funds
ty. That is the road committee of ava;;a!,,c at pre-,,nt niakc ,u.ir c()n.
the business men's organization has , struetion impossible.
unanimously voted to recommend The bond issue proposed would
the near future of Pave ,n xvav ,or tllc building ol a
neiworw ot good roaos in uiose sec-
CASE INVOLVING
STATE LEASES HAS
BEEN APPEALED
INVOLVES THE QUESTION
OF WHAT PER CENT OF
APPRAISED VALUE OF
LANDS SHALL BE CHARG
ED FOR THEIR USE
to tllc board of
INTEREST
Washington, Dec. 27. Omaha, Neb.
Berkeley, California Spokane, Wash
ington., Baltimore Maryland., Lo-
xvirs. .mna uiero warren was ap- ;,, wn c,, .. . , . ,
pointed superintendent of schools for I " VY,a" .S,treet carr,ed a rePrt that
this county Thursday afternoon andi,nc 1 resident was about to dispatch
immediately assumed the duties of ! a note urging the warring na'tlons to
tne ottice.
Superintendent J. V. Conway hav
ing resigned to accept the position
I of Assistant State' Superintendent)
o'clock on that day a news ticker ! nu'nt 15 '"dged. in the hands of menco"nt' commissioners, asking that
ana oi partus immune to sinister m-ioouy to call a special election to
fluciice. The country, however, has vote on the proposition.
lief tmtnri . nJ . ! - -I 1
v.lVj, any it tt ii iig observa
tion that a nation receives that sort
tions of the county where the traf-i
The case of Dallas Brothers versus
P.ruce Connor, in the district conrt
lor Chaves county has been ap
pealed by the attorney for Connor,
I "apt. Charles A. Reynolds, to the
suprtme rotirt. It will he recalled
that the rotirt held in this case that
the leas,, to certain state lands, made
by Commissioner Krvien to Bruce
lumbia. b. C. Lousivilie. Ky., New.the Board of County Commissioners,
Orleans, La.; St. Louis, Mo., St. Paul, which was in session at the time, an-
Kansas, and Hous-; 00inted Mrs. Warren to fill the
Minn., Wichita,
ton, Texas, have been chosen as lo
cations for 12 federal farm loan
banks.
Ihe 12 .districts into which the
fcintry is divided were announced
by the farm loan board today as
follows :
District No. 1. Maine, New Hamp
shire, Vermont, Massachusetts
Rhode Island, Connecticut,
York and New Jersey. I
District No.2 Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware, Maryland, Virginia, West Vir-;
ginia and District of Columbia. j
District No. 3 North Carolina,
south Carolina, Ueorgia and flonda.
District Np4 Ohio, Indiana, Ken
tucky and Tennessee.
District No. 5 Alabama, Mississip
pi and Lousiana.
District No. 6 Illinois, Missouri
and Arkansas.
District No. 7 Michigan, Wiscon
sin, Minnesota and North Dakota.
District No. 8 Iowa, Nebraska,
South Dakota and Wyomingi
District No. 9 Oklahoma, Kansas,
Colorado and New Mexico.
District No. 10 Texas.
District No. 11 California, Nevada,
Utah and Arizona.
District No. 12 Washington, Ore
gon, Montana and Idaho.
"In determining the federal land
bank districts and in designating the
cities within such districts where
federal land banks shall be locat
ed," the officiat announcement says,
"the federal farm loan board has
given careful consideration to the
farm loan needs of the country. The
board held public hearings in nearly
mrv stato in the Union.
"Every reasonable opportunity has
been aforded applicant cities to tur
nish evidenec to support their claims
;: to locations of federal land banks.
More than 75 cities applied to be
designated as the headquartrs of a
bank, and were heard through repre
sentative committees and individu
al." .
Will be Established Soon
vacancy and her term of office will
extend over the next two years.
Mrs. Warren is well qualified for
the positiion and being conversent
with the good work, and methods of
Mr. Conway is well prepared to con
tinue the splendid work of imorov-
ing the schools of this county which
has been in progress for the past
New I ,cw years.
ORGANIZATION OF
HOUSE CLAIMED
BY BOTH PARTIES
work out the terms of peace.
These statements were printed in
the New York Times of Thursday,
Dec. 21, in the course of an article
dealing with the crisis in the stock
market; and there is a natural in
quiry here as to who "leaked" the
information.
The President's note was dated
Monday, Dec. 18 two days before
it was given to the press; it was pre
pared, all reports agree, several days
before that. Consequently, its con
tents must have bcem known to a
fairly numerous group. Washington
gossip has been busy trying to iden
tify the men who could have had
knowledge of the President's pur
poseand there arP sinister rumors
to the effect that some peoplei who
were "in the know" did not let the
opportunity pass to pick
easy pronts in the
of government which it deserves.
640 ACRE HOMESTEAD
BILL FINALLY PASSED
Washington, D. C, Dec. 22, 1916.
State Record.
Santa Fc, New Mexico.
Stock Raising Homestead Bill, No.
407, passed both houses to-day with
ammendments. Copy of Bill will be
forwarded as soon as printed, which
will be about next Tuesday. With
out doubt it will be signed by Pre
sident and become a law immedi itc-
ly-
B. C. Hcrnan lez.
Washington, Dec. 29. President
Wilson late today signed the Ferries
UP somoibill onenini? nn fi40 arm hnmocurtd
stock market fnr etnL ril;. inA
when securities went tumbling, aspdses. It is accounted of great im
tney were boand to, as soon as the pottance to western states.
The initial step was taken at a
meeting of the road committee held
Friday. Present at the session were
all members but one of the road 1
committee, namely, W. S. Cox, chair
man; R. H. Boulware, Sam Agce, i
J. VV. Pinkcrton, Jr., Julius Schwarz
and Charles B. Morrill. O. C. Hin-!
man was the ab-.entee. 1
No Legal Obstacles.
It was conclusively shown that no:
legal obstacles to the project stand I
in the way. Grant county, with an
assessed valuation this year of over
$24,000,000, is allowed to bond itself
to a max:mum of 4 per cent, or ap
proximately $900,000. The outstand
ing! bonded and floating debt of the
countv is about $.300,000. The voting
of $.100,000 additional in bonds for
road bttitdine would increase this to
$600,000 or $300,000 less than the max-1
imiim allowed by law. i
The road bond issue proposed '
would run for 20 years and draw 3j
per cent interest, which would in-!
crease the tax rate about $1.25 on
each $1,000 of prosperity in the conn-!
ty. Thus it is seen (hat the burden I
fic demands improved highways and l-",,nnr wns invalid because be
would return to the taxpayers thous- charged only five cents an acre for
ands of dollars in indirect revenue. th us(. of the land a year for the
What can be done with adequate benefit of the state, whereas, since
bonds for road building has been 'the land wis appraised at five dol
denionstrated by thc new Silver City-1 lars an acre, and the rent therefor
Tyrone road, build during the past could not be less than two per cent
few months ly the state at an ex-of the appraised valuation, the
pensc of about $40,000. This road, charge should have been ten cents
which is to be extended on to Lords-1 an acre. This will be a test case,
burgv constitutes one of the finest I The decision of the supreme conrt
highways in the entire state, if not I will be final and will affect a num-
ui ine wnuie oouuiwesi ana win en-, ner or otner leases tor state land in
dure for years to come. Silver City
ndependent.
DE BACA WILL BE
ON HAND TO TAKE
OATH JANUARY I
GOVERNOR-ELECT IS EX
PECTED TO REACH SANTA
New Mexico but bv no means all
of them as has been stated by some,
of the newspapers. While the state
is not a party of record to the suit,
it has vital intercuts at stake, and.
I no doubt, will concern itself in the
presentation of the contention of
the same to the supreme court. The
new attorney general, Patton, will
be in office when the rase will coma
up for baring and it is not known
what his view of the question in
vo'ved is, or whether he will appear
for New Mexico in the matter.
'The outcome will settle a ques
iiVii which has been in doubt for
j some time relative to such leases
and in the event the decision is
g:,inst (.nmmissioner Ervien J
INDEPENDENTS PLAN
T0
STAND ALOOF FROM BOTH
REPUBLICANS AND
DEM-
OCRATS AND INSIST ON
CHANGE Of RULES
?!
W TnnAV OP TO wmwpnw l,r:lct'c? may so increase the charge
FE TODAY OR TO-MORROW jfr,r rcnta!s that lands appraised at
NO FORMAL WILL BE HELD,f2' iV'r,atTr and 'cr can nt
iiiineii lur grazing purposes.
AT THIS TIME
Washington. Dec. 27. Indcoendent 1
members of the incoming housel of;t
representatives are planning an or-
ganization to work apart from both I J
democrats and republicans with the'i
avowed purpose of enforcing radical!
changes m the rules.
Thus far no plans have been made
t .; 1 , - . , ,
lor vomiK as a Doay in ine speaKer-i'
i NEW MEXICO METAL PRODUCT
FOR THE YEAR 1916
"I.os Angeles, Cal Dec. 29. Eze-
Iquiel C. de Baca, governor-elect of
. New Mexico, left hefe today for
ship fight, but it is not impossible that
such an arrangement will be attempt
ed later. Informal conferences a
mong independents now in congress
have resulted in an arrangement
that something should be done to
give more publicity to committee
work. At least one of the indepen
dents has conferred with Colonel
Roosevelt over the situation and will
The banks will be established as geek further advice from him on
soon as practicamc. unaer "jejjjrihow, to proceed
each will have a capital of $750,000.
Annlirations for loans have been
pouring into the board in great vol
ume recently, and it is estimated
that a sum more than 20 times the
combined capital stock could be used
kt making loans.
Almost the first work of the banks
a'fter approving and issuing loans
wi be the issuance ot tarm loan
Conferences Are Quiet.
Conferences have proceeded quiet
ly, usually on the floor of the house,
Participants are disinclined to talk,
for both, democrats and republicans
are eagerly seeking their favor as
the speakership situation daily be
comes more doubtful.
Representative Randall of Califor
nia, a prohibitionist, indicated today,
bonds, a new form of security in this however, the nature of the imme
country. The bonds win De issuea diate plans,
in denominations as low as it is
expected, and will bear interest at a
rate of one per cent less man tne in
terest rate charged farmers on their
(bans. .
What this interest rate will be has
aot definitely been determined. It is
bSBited by law to a maximum ot sk votes on very important proposal
per cent, ine expecianon u in ni think it we can remedy this si
will not exceed five and one half perjtuation and make some changes in
Thc output of New Mexico mines for
eJeven months of 1916, with an estimate for
December, as reported by the United States
Geological Survey, Department of thc Inter
ior, indicates a yield of $1,350000 in gold,
1,800,000 ounces of silver, 7,100,000 pounds
of lead, 91,400 000 pounds of copper, and
36,500000 pounds of zinc, valued in all at
$33469.400 as compared with a total value in
1915. for the same metals of $19,279,468.
The Mogollon district, Socorro county,
continued to be the most productive district in
New Mexico in the output of gold and silver.
There was a great deal of development work
in this district in 1916, but the yield decreased
appreciably. The $ocorro and the Mogollon
mines were active. AH the ore was milled in,
the district by concentration, sliming, and agi-
of office on Tanitarv 1. H still ic
4. 1 weak from pernicious anemia but
jhis physicians here said his recovery
J I seemed certain. Mr. de Baca came
'here a month ago seeking complete1
I rest."
The announcement that Governor
Jl elect E. C. de Baca will arrive here
I today or tomorrow and will' qualify
J. lie ny taking thc oatn of ottice on
CRIST FILES ANSWER IN
READ CONTEST CASE
low (Trade Conner denosits at Santa Rita
ore is milled at Hurley in a large concentra- !S-7wnich A'ShS
Hon plant. During 1016 the larerest tonnaire I ow '"s '"ability to be present and
the constitution.
At the request of Mr. dc Baca,
there will be no formal ceremonies
will go to St. Vincent's Sanitarium,
where the oath will be administered
by Secretary of State Antonio Luce-ro.
Tentative plans now are being made
J. If. Crist, district attorney-elect
for the counties of Santa Fe, Rio
Arriba and San Juan, denies the
jurisdiction of thc district court to
try the contest case filed acainit
him by District Attorney Alexander
Kcan.
Mr. Crist's reply, filed in the dis
trict clerk's office today, is an an
swer to the long notice filed some
weeks ago bv Mr. Read to contest
Mr. Crist's election.
On the matter of jurisdiction, Mr.
Crist states that the office of dis
trict attorney is a state office and he
adds :
"Thcre is no statutory mode of
contesting the election of any per
son to that office." This conten
tion, if sustained, would leave quo
warranto proceedings as the next
line of attack should Mr. Read wish
to go to the courts with his argu
ment that Mr Crist was not legally
"We are anxious that the rules be
amended so that the people may(J
know what their representative areij
STof voting in ,heommhtteeSyof J tatio" and eolation in cyanide solution, the
in the history of the company was treated and
the gross output was 75,500,000 pounds. The
Burro Mountain Copper company's new con- t'n connection with the administering
. . I a ! J of the oath. On his arrival hef-e he
ii""wi ucgaii iia:i diiuns in prn ana scan- 4
ed running at full capacity June 1. 1916.
Much development work has been done at this
property and the reserves are sufficient to 2
supply the mill for years. The Santa Fe Go'd J
, r 1 . . an executive committee to na
and Copper company S 125-ton matting plant, all general arrangements when
at San Pedro, added a considerable quantity , 1. ?ewi eTecut,vc a?
t v definitely determined. This commit-
of copper to the output. Copper ores were t tee is composed of Arthur Seligman,
i . . . , .. , , . ,. I Judge N. B. Laughlin, L. A. Hughes,
also Shiped from the Organ Mountains dist- I Secretary of State Antonio Lncero!
rirt TVin.i Ann rnnntv tirlmro Pl,.lr.c- t Col. Eronsom M. Cutting, Judge
. . , , 1 jKichard H. Hanna, former Uovernor 1 Read's name but not placed there
UoclgC company has secured a large area iMigui-l A. Otero, Col. Jose. D Sena by the voters who cast the ballots.
w urh it liac Urm rtnvotrtninrr 1in'nrr tmi i ai.u i a..: r. vvaiier, ami loiiowing Mr. Inst toncludes by
.!'"(, u,...,s .y.w. i tnc arrival of Uovernor-elect De lla
:cr inaugural festivities, and Gover-ipi.rted r,n nvmW 7 nf thi.
nor McDonald yesterday appointed; i Mr. Crist's reply, which takes
to handle
the
up two or three typewritten pages,
he demurs to certain allegations in
Mr. Read's notice of contest. In
particular Mr. Crist demurs to the
allegation that 500 ballots cast in the
district did not bear the facsimile
signature of the county clerk, and
did bear stickers placed over Mr.
I "Wherefore contestee
saying:
denids the
the who1 makes it possible fori bulk of the product being cyanide precipitates
members to frequently conceal their , , , , . , . , , .. ..
votes on very important proposals.1! tne balance being high-grade gold-silver con
cent at first and subsequently may
be lowered. .
Loans on farm ltnd ar limited by
the law to 50 per cent of the value
of the land and may be payable in
from five to forty years. As fast as
loans are made, bonds will be issued
to cover them, so that at no time,
under the present plan, will a bank's
entire capital be tied up in loans to
the detriment of other aoplicants.
Experienced Men Needed
One of the chief tasks now con
fronting the board is to find experi
enced employes for the new banks.
More than 6.000 applications for po
sitions have been received. The ap
pointments will be exempt from civil
service regulation, but the board in
tends to assemble a corps of men ex
perenced in banking.
The head of each bank will b,. des
ignated as the registrar. They prob
ably will be residents of the districts
involved, and preferably attorneys.
ng high-grade gold-;
t centrates. The Elizabethtown district- Col
t fax county, from the Aztec mine alone, was
This district Will produce all five metals. A j ca 't will wait on him and ascertain ( riuclif of contestant to maintain his
1 . . ... X'exactly hs desires. If an inaugural I crntest according to th. terms of
large tonnage of low grade copper ore with cal- ball is deeded upon, it probably will u," ,; T arid ask, that it be dis-
Apache
cite gangue was shipped from
mine, Hachita.
the
f
th method of reporting bills from
committees, an independent orga
nization will, be worth while."
Four Independents.
Four independents, Representa
tives Schall of Minnesota, and Mar
tin of Lousiana, progressives; Ran
dall of California, prohibitionist, and
London of New York, socialist, are
in tne present house, iney hope 1 a
that Representative-elect Fuller of
Massachusetts, jmd Kellv of Penn- I
sylvania, and Rankin of Montana, I
will join them. Messers. Fuller and T
Kelly were elected as independents. X
McSs Rankin is a republican, but
hope of her independence is based !
on the fact that she was opposed ,
"J me repuDiican organization in y . . , ,
the primary. r,ct' Grant county, which has also been
isTi'doubtBoth s'peakeafrknd t steadily increasing its shipments of siliceous
Republican Leader Mann declared j J gold and silver bearing copper atid dry ores,
wodTd 'have tilea"5P2lC8tiVvotes:d"i J 8 Really increased its tonnage shipped.
m?:"rity-.2" tne speakership. I The copper concentrates of the Chino Copper
also a very large producer of metalic gold,
gold bullion, and gold concentrates.
The Cossak cyanidation mill in the Bland
district, Sandoval county, closed in December
1915 was started up again in the spring of
1916, and contributed a considerable yield of
silver-gold bullion. Gold bullion continued to
be produced at the amalgamation mill, on the
North and South Homestake mines, at White
oaks, Lincoln county. The Lordsburg dist-
The' yield of lead showed an appreciable
increase. Lead ores were shipped from the
Central, San Simon, and Pinos Altos districts,
Grant county, and Cooks Peak and Victorio
districts, Luna county. Consderabe tonnage
of lead carbonate ore was shipped from Kelly.
Socorro county.
tab nftnm tnff tttj,. nir fil
. !'... .. .. . lip, .11. ....... 'u 1 1
1 1 January.
SANTA FE HEALTH INSTITUTE
A MODERN INSTITUTION.
misfcd. He also demurs on the
ground "that it does not state farts
sufficient to constitute a cause of
action."
COMMISSION DECREASE CATTLE
AND INCREASE SHEEP VALUES
Dr. Francis King, the eye special
ist, has opened up a modern and
,..Vtl.. .... U-t.L t...
1 in the suite of rooms over Kaune's
j Grocery store, which is a credit to
T any city or community.
I In the front room of the suite is &;;n
is from 5 cents to $5 a
I head, the latter increase being on
Swine, which were formerly
Taxable valuations, of common 'and
trraded cattle on open ranges and
in pastures have been reduced br
the state taxcommission from $1 to
Increased shipments of zinc rarlwnate 5 ,..- AJ-tXu?s"& a. '?. The increase in sheep
4 j I'Ctl Willi IMC ldl-( UIMI UIUU1I1 IV j
eViVltnitiiniT nrirl tetnrr Irix avc m- It Vi
1 1 . , . l"T J '. rams.
arK .om , q "pPea w;!n a l.8 I assessed at $10 a head.regarding of
ithe muscles, and a new electrical!
instrument for examining the inte-
rior of the eye, making this depart-
'ment comp'ete in every part:cular.
! The reception room comes next in
.order and is neatly fitted up, hut the
T : greatest attraction is the adjoining
win, wuini luiiidin me .wtruiii
age.
Ooern to Snbtcription
TUm hanlrc will hj nrtranixed tern
noraritr br the appointment by the less th democrats buv it. and thev.t company containing; as thev do small duanti
board of five directors for each bank; are trying to do that now," Repre-.' t- . -r .,. j t, ij . t.i
sentativ. Mann said, indicating his t vu.umuui iu ure guiu vicm.
belief that promises, of organization
favors were being held out to in
dependents by the present majority.
Speaker Dark said the democrats
already were assured of 216 dem
ocratic members, and that he is
certain two more will be seated in
pending contests.
who shll he residents of the district
in which the bank is located. The di
rectors will select from among their
nnmber the bank s officers. The cap
ital stelc of each bank will be open
to pnblic subscription for 30 days.
If it is not entirely subscribed at the
eno or tnat lime rne eovernmem is
anthorized nnder the law to take the
onsnhscribed amount.
Through a process of having bor
rowers subscribe . in small amounts
to the capital stock, if is said that
the banks not long after- beginning
operations will be virtually co-operative
institutions. - The permanent
organization of the banks provides
for nine directors, six of whom shall
be selected by associations of farmer
borrowers, the other three being; ap-
The continued activity of the mines and matte
smelter, at San Pedro, Santa Fe county, also
added an increased quantity of gold to the
New Mexico yie'd. Shipments of copper ores
from the Jarilla district, Otero county, car
ried some gold.
The state board of education held
:. i -. .1. t.a-
nesday to check op the ofice of the! J ' The principal metal produced in New
ril.eXtrima"tredr,t &it Mexico is copper, and since 1910 the yield has
F. H. H. Roberts, of Us Vegas. Prof.
E. L Enloe. of Silver City. C C
Hill, of Rnswell. and Bonafacio Mon
toya, of Bernalillo, Sandoval countrv
were in attendance.
and su'phide ores were made in New Mesieo
in 1916. At Kelly.Socorro county, the prin.
cipa producing mines were the Kelly, Graphic,
and Juanita. The Ozark mill was operated
continuously up to the time of the fire in Au
gust. The Kelly magnetic mill was operated J
from May throughout the vear.
At Hanover, zinc carbonate ores were
shipped from the Hanover mines and others, j Movement Machine, something, new 1;'
and from June on, zinc sulphide concentrates cSTlo? rXiZl"
nvit 3iuj7jcu iiuni me iiaiiuvci magnetic
separation mill. The Cleveland magnetic sep
aration mill, at Pinos Altos, was operated
steadily. A mill was erected in the revived
Steeplerock district, Grant Count', and some
bh-pments were made, Zinc carbonate ores
were shipped from the Magdalena. Hanover,
Cook Peak. Florida Mountains Tres Herma-
nas, and Pinos AltOS districts. Shipments of J Russian and Turkish baths, hot and made in response to a request from
zmr or and mn,vntrat frrm M Xf-v f!'? sho.w" ba'h medicated the state corporation commission. It
have been given three valua
tions, bused on ages. The valuations
are for 1916 assessments, and have
iust been made public by Howell
Fearnest, secretary of tlv commission.
The commission made no changes
in the valuation, of horses, mules.
cattle of mixed herds and gots and
kewise left the valuations of com
mon and graded cows and hulls on
1 1 , - -i ., r . . nn.l in r,-,.-, .nil , m
optng the muscles in all parts of.yr.old range hciferS- as fixed for
t!y,viiiu l ine oesi renieoy Known JQ
for constipation, rheumatism and "'
stomach and bowel trouble, and j
other chronic disease acting direct-! The Pullman s'eeper now operated
ly on the muscles, nerves, and or-1 between Roswell and Albuquerque
ganic organs of the system. In this j wil be run in and out of Santa Fe
machine the Dr. gives the dry swim, .dailv during the leeislative session,
rowing, and all other athletic ex- arriving here at 11.20 at n:pht. and
ercises. Ileiving here at 340 in the after-
m addition tne suite is titled win; noon. these arrangements were
been chiefly from the ChinO Copper company
were 73.900 tons of 30.15 per cent grade, as
' compared with 41,852 tons of 36 per cent in y"re
1.15.
I baths, with a rest room on the s'de,
ere the patient can spend a time
recreat:on and rest after the est
erases.
Dr Kintr came to Santa Fe about
six months ago and during (hat
time has built op a large eye pract
rossiMe that the Santa Fe can be
prevailed upon to continue the ser
vice after the legislature adjourns.
Passengers arriving here at nicht
will have the privilege of remaining
in the car until the following morn
ing. Between Albuquerque and
ice, and with his new outfit willjLamy the Pullman will be handled
ncn om mio larger ireias. on trains 5 and 1.
