PAGES 1 TO 8
THE CITY OP PUSH'
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. DEC. 29,-1916.
NO. 40
ROBBED SAFE AND
TELEPHONE BOX
Night 'Clark at Wilder muth Hotel
Confesses to Stealing $75. ... '
Bert Crockford, 83 years of age, night
clerk at the Hotel Wilde rmuth in this
cl.ty, launder arrest after having con
fessed to taking $50 from the hotel safe
and $25 from the Bell Telephone box in
the booth at the hotel , Crockford came
from Grand Rapids In August, and for
three months money has been missed.
Crockford was. suspected but no evi
dence .'was secured agaipst him until
last week when marked money was put
in the telephone box and found later, in
the hotel t cash drawer and in Crock
ford's possession. Keys fitting , the cash
drawer in the safe and the telephone
box were also found on Crockford.
Daughters of American Revolution
The regular meeting of Shiawassee
Chapter, Daughters of the American
Revolution, will be held with Mrs.
A- West, 414 Adams street, Wednesday,
Jan. 8, at 2:30 p. m.. All daughters are
requested to bring a short article on
Michigan, with Mrs. W. J. Melch'ers as
leader. : Miss Florence Wilcox will give
a group of songs accompanied by Mrs.
G. L. Cramer, A full attendance is
desired, as there is business of import
ance to be transacted.
Judge 3. S. Miner.
Judge S. 8. Miner of Owosso, has ably
served the people of this Judicial Cir
cuit comprising the counties, of Liv
ingston and Shiawassee for some years.
We understand that he is a candidate
for re election at the coming primaries
and there is no reason why he should
not be re-nominaxed and re-elected in
April. He is not only ah able jurist
but has been true to the people's inter
eats. Livingston Republican.
Congregational Choir Entertained.
Rev. and Mrs. B. G. Mattson enter
tained the choir of the Congregational
churcn Dec ai at tneir nome on west
" Oliver street Following the. rehearsal a
Christmas tree'was enjoyed and each
person present was presented with a
gift. Unlimited fun was the result of
the reception of toys by fnll growns. R.
N. Gibson and Mrs. J. C. Rexford, who
were the honored guests, were the recip
ients of pretty and useful gifts. Re
freshments were served and a deligtf ul
social evening was spent. ' '
Arrested for Theft.
jrry'Lamphere, aged 23 years, was
ArrftRtAd Snndav morning at the borne
of his brother, Hiram Lamphere in this
city,' and turned over to Clinton county
officers on a charge of stealing brass
from a cider mill at Ovid three years
ago." Two other young men were pun
ished for taking part in the crime, but
Lamphere had avoided arrest, but had
recently visited his brother, and was
seen: there Sunday by Patrolman Fuller
and arrested by four officers, who found
him hiding behind a stove. A reward
of 25 will be divided by the officers.
! Robbed in Fliat Hotel.
Charles II. Bailey, HOG North
Washington street, this city, was
drugged and robbed ot .tow wnuc nc
slept in a Flint hotel Tuesday night.
Two Greeks, both of whom arc miss
ing, ' and one of whom slept in the
same room with Mr. Bailey,, are being
sought. ' .
The hotel was crowded when Mr.
Bailey applied for n room and he con
sented to occupy the same room with
separate beds. In the morning after
deeping soundly all night, the Owos
so man awoke to find his room-mate
gone and the odor of chloroform fill
ing the room. He at once looked for
his money, which had been left in his
trusers pocket, and found it gone.
" ' I
E. 0. Dewey spent Tuesday in
Flint consulting members of the Board
of Commerce relative to the urgent
necessity of the citizens of Flint tak
ing an active interest in the work of
securing without delay the right of
way for the praised extension of the
electric road from Owosso to 'that
city. Promises of hearty co-operation
were made and without doubt the
work of procuring the options will be
made much casief with the hearty sup
port of the active business interests
of Flint. Some options were obtained
last wito m v auj .. iuniioiui, vill
ains there realising cmickly the bene
fits they will receive from tho line.
The work in Venice township is con
siderable more difficult than it should
be and the delay in giving the options
simply means . unnecessary delay in
the construction of tho line.
A 'daughter, Virginia Marion, was
born Sunday to Mr. and Mrs. Julius
lift Verne, South Shiawassee street.
Kappa Phi Party.
The best attended dancing party of
the season Was, the complimentary partv
given by the alumni of the Kappa Phi
high school fraternity Christmas night
at the new armory in this city. At 8:30
a grand march led by MIbs Eatherine
Payne and Robert fitorrer, started a
program of twenty-two dances to excel
lent music furnished by Rhodes Bros,
orchestra, the "pin" dances and an
"elimination" waltz , being special sea
tures. The ball room was attractively fur
nished for the comfort of the large
number present, including the patrons
and patronesses, Mr. and Mrs. G. L.
Taylor,, Mr. and Mrs. F. J Storrer, Mr.
and Mrs. C. P. Bentley, Mr. and Mrs.
F. H. Williams. Mr. and Mrs. J. Edwin
Ellis and Mr. and Mrs F. W. Smith.
A punch booth in yelldw and blue, fra
ternity colors, was presided over by
Misses Marian Brittson, Zylpha Smith
and Rowena Hicks.
The guests Included practically all of
the etadents home from college, a large
nnmber of high school pupils and a
number of out of town guests.
Shiawassee County Medical Soeiety.
The Shiawassee County Medical
association held its annual meeting
Friday afternoon at the Ilauck hotel
for the purpose of electing officers! for
the coming year. The following of
ficers were elected: President, J. O.
Parker, of 6wosso; vice' president,
Dr. Soulc, of Henderson; "secretary,
W. E. Ward, of Owosso; board of di
rectors, Dr. J. A. Rowley, of Durand ;
Dr. A. L. Baily, of Chesaning; Dr. L.
M. Cudworth, of Perry; delegate to
the State Medical society, Dr. P. S.
Willson; medico-legal representative,
Dr. C. McCormick.
All other business of the associa
tion was suspended in order to give
Dr; Preston ' M. Ilickey, the well
known X-ray specialist, of Detroit,
all the time available for the demon
stration of X-ray pictures by lantern
slides.
Dr. Ilickey emphasized the import
ance of the X-ray. picture in substan
tiating the "diagnosis of not only sur
gical and bone diseases andtftc loca
tion of foreign bodies, but also the
more severe affections of the head,
chest, liver, stomach, bowels, appen
dix and stones of the gall bladder and
kidney bladder.
"In order to obtain the best results
the general practicing physician must
co-opcratc with the X-ray specialist.
In this way a jwsitive diagnosis can
he had and if an operation is neces
sary there is less danger to the pa
tient," said Dr. Ilickey during his
lecture.
Give Employees Over $3,000 for
Christmas.
Christmas presents in the form of
checks, which,, an accompanying note
specifically stater, were nat to be con
sidered in any, way as wages, but as
presents to help meet the high cost
of living, were given to its employees
by the Owosso Manufacturing com
pany Saturday. The checks were
placed in the pay envelope and came
as a surprise to the recipients only
three officials of 'the company having
any previous knowledge of the com
pany's philanthropic plan.
The checks were of special design
and bore the greeting: "A Merry
Christmas arid Happy New Vear"
across the top. In all the company
paid out about $3,000 in this way. The
same plan was followed last Christ
mas. The following note accompanied
each check:
Enclosed find a Christmas present
from the Owosso Mfg. Co., who wish I
you a Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year. All employes who have '
been in our employ for one year or
more are receiveing 3 1-2 per cent of
the previous year's wages, and all em
ployees who have been in our employ
for the past six months are receiving
2 per cent. This is not to be consider
ed as any part of your regular wages,
but as a Christmas present to help
you meet the high cost of living.
Owosso Mfg. Co.
' Death of Ira Peavy. .
Iva Pcavv. 52 vcars old, difd Tues
day night at his home, 100 North Ian
sing street, of Iirjght's disease. He
was employed at tho Robbing table
factory until a. couple of months ago
when he became incapacitated by his
physical condition. Surviving are his
wife and I wo" children, whose where
abouts are unknown, a sister, Mrs.
Anna Scott, of Flint, and two half
brothers. The funeral was held Thursday
mornin? from the Jennings chapel in
West Main fctrect, Rev. H. O. Matt
son officiating.
l! IPs
EVERYBODYREMEMBERED
Owosso Organizations Make Merry
Christmas for Many.
Owosso has few poor people compara
tively, but some are unfoitanate, but
none were allowed to rates the joys of
Christmas, tbe Elks lodge, the King's
Daughters and other organizations and
individuals bringing cheer by visits and
gifts to all who were not blessed with
plenty.
i Four hundred children attended the
annual Christmas tree at the temple of
Owosso Lodge ot Elks and enjoyed
music and other exercises, and were
all given gifts, a cap, a pair of stock
ings, a pair of gloves, candy, nuts,
oranges and crackerjack. The big
Christmas tree In the lodge rodm was
beautifully trimmed and brilliantly
lighted. Carols by the children led by
Miss Rhea Buckley, and remarks by G
F. Friegel proceeded the gift giving,
after the children bad been the guests
of the Strand theatre at a production of
Cinderella.
As usual the King's Daughters looked
after every deserving poor family by
seeing that they bad fuel, food, cloth
ing and medical attention. About fifty
baskets of food were sent out.
Tbe Salvation Army made its usual
collections and furnished dinners to a
number of families. The Army will
serve a dinner at the barracks on Mason
street New Year's night to a number
of children
Sixtieth Wedding- Anniversary.
Mr. and Mrs. M. Little of Corunna,
celebrated their sixtieth wedding anni
versary at their home on Christmas day
with their five children. They are each
82 years old. Mr. Little was born in
Ireland and Mrs. Little in Canada, and
were married in London, Ont. They
have been residents of Owossd and Cor
unna folr over twenty years.
Banquet Retailers.
The wholesale bakers of the city will
give their annual banquet to the retail
grocers 'and other customers on the
evening of January 5th. J. M, Both-'
welk Secretary of the Retail Grocer'
and hlerchants Association of Mkhi-
gan, will be one of the speakers.
Public Installation.
The public installation of the offic
ers of Owosso Chapter No. 89, R. A.
M., was held Wednesday evening. The
ceremony of installation was conduct
ed by George T. Campbell, Past High
Priest, with Clement Hobbs, the re
tiring High Priest, acting as marshal.
The new officers of the chapter are as
follows:
High Priest, Fred G. Tyler,; King,
Roy Spiess; Scribe, John MoClcllanj
Treasurer,' A. I). Whipple; Secretary,
Fred Randolph. Captain of the Host,
William Lietzau; Principal Sojourn
er, Frank Williams; Royal Arch Cap
tain, A. F. Hollis; Master of Frst
Veil, William Rittenmeyer; Master of
Second Veil, Frank Sutfin; Master of
Third Veil, R. S. Walton; Sentinel, C.
W. Danfortli.
Following his installation High
Priest Tyler presided during an inter
esting program, in which Morehouse's
orchestra had a part. Vocal solos
were rendered by Miss Florence Wil
cox, Miss Luella Mcintosh and He v.
W. R. Hlachford, a piano solo by J.
H. Mcintosh and a rending by Mrs.
IFred Elliott. Ihief remarks were
made by Past Grand Master A. M.
Hume, Past High Priests George 11.
Red ford and C. E. Rigley, Sr., and
also by Rev. 15. G. Mattson. During
'the course of his remarks Mr. Higley
commended the High Priest, Clement
Hobbs, on the work done by him as
cxecutivo of the chafer during the
last year, and in behalf of the chap
ter presented him with a handsome
Past High Priest's jewel. Mr .Hobbs
was very appreciative of this remem
brance and expressed his gratitude in
a becoming manner.
Following the program light re
freshments were served and the time
ppent socially, and those who cared to
participate engaged in dancing in the
dining room.
Will II. Drown is home from Chica-
go to spend the holidays with his
mother, Mrs. M. Drown, North Water
street.
Miss Oa Friege! entertained the
T.nmba Rho Tau society at n "feed"
Tuesday night at her home on Saginaw
street.
Flint Awake to the Importance of the
Proposed Owosso-Flint Electric
Line.
The directors of the Flint Hoard of
Commerce at a meeting held Wednes
day pvnnimr rinacnrl tlin f nllnminn ...c n I
.f - ' o i v ..v. uu i. Illji, ICPII-
lutions regarding the proposed con
struction of an electric railway from
Owosso to Flint :
"The announcement that the Michi
gan Railway Company contemplates
the extension of their Lanaing-Owos-so
line to Flint is received with in
terest, therefore be it
Resolved, That tho proposed action
of tlic Michigan Railway Company re
ceives the sanction and approval of
the directors of the Flint Hoard of
Commerce, and further be it
Resolved, That the citizens of Flint
and that part of Genesee county
through which the, line will pass be
urged to co-operate in every possible
way in securing the right of May in
order that this line may be completed
with the leash possible delay."
Win -
Real Estate Transfers.
A. E. Diehl to W. H. Fuller, south
04 acres of east y2 of southeast 4
section 27, Hazelton, $1 and other.
11. V. Simons to D. P. Hicks, lot
3, block; 2, Brands ',2nd add, Durand,
$1150.
W. Gould to II. Stasa and wife, east
Y2 st V2 of northwest Y section 19,
Hazelton, ex. '2 acre, $1 and other.
J. Martin io. C. Rainey, land on thS
southwest Yi section 14, Owosso, $80.
S. R. Pitts to W. B. Smith and wife,
lot "13, A..L. & B. O. Williams' sub.
div. of out lot 7, Owosso, $3,000.
W. B. Serviss to R. R. Fox and
wife, west 4W,. feet of lot 15, A. L.
& B. O. Williams' sub. div. of out lot
fi, Owosso, $2600.00.
J. Miller to G. W. Porterfield and
wife, south y2 of north 8 acres of west
of southwest l section 11, Hazel
ton, $1500.
J. Morton to J. Morton, west y2 of
lots 1 and 2, section 18, Bennington,
$1400.
A. Filinger to II. Coy and wife, land
on southeast 4 section .14, Rush, $175.
E. J. Colby to W. I). Smith and
wife, land' on southeast 14 of-section
20, Scota',' $l.' ' " - - -
. : Death of F. M. Shepard.
Francis M.. Shepard, a resident of
Owosso township for 74 years, form
er representative of this county in the
state legislature, and justice of the
peace for many years, died December
21st at his honic oh' Main and Chestnut-
streets, just outside the city lim
its. Death followed a general break
ing down'. ' Mr. Shepard had been fail
ing gradually for the past four montlis
but was able to be around th house
until a few days ago. . , ,
Practically ever since he attained
his majority, Mr. Shepard had been
one of tho county's .prominent citi
zens. He was a staunch Republican
andMvas repeatedly honored' -by the
township .and once by. the county
During the past 35 years, he had been
either, township clerk, justice of the
peace or supervisor. He held the office
of justice at the time of his death.
1.1 ji- 1 ... . ,,1 .
iii-qiH-iiuy nc uas canea on to Hold
i-nurt in 1 ne municipal court room in j
Owosso, during the absence of Justice
Friegel.
Mr. Shepard represented this coun
ty in the state legislature from 181)0
to 1898.
Rom in'Xew York tat,c 70 years
go, jir. onepnru was Drought ly Ins pnVne, John street, who is also a shi
pments to this county when but two , lent at the Oberlin conservatory,
years old. They settled on a farm in Miss ;Pavne is specializing in voice,
hvosso township and hP grew up and 'ond rcn,lered four pleasing solos. Her
lived on the same farm until he re- vnirn U uW. nnd rioh n,1 H,
vuiii jvcuo Ui;i iiiiu IIIOWU IU
tli pleasant home on West Main
street, where he died. In his death
the county loses one of its best citi
zens. Thc deceased is survived by the
widow and four children. They are;
Phillip, of Jackson; Marion, of Har
rison; Miss Rertha, living at home,
and Mrs. Margaret Gute, of Toledo.
The funeral was held Sundav after-
noon nt 2:30 from the librae, RAv. E.j
J. barren, of the First M. E. church,!
officiating.
Shlawasteo Mutual.
Tbe Shiawawee Mutual Fire Insur
ance Company allowed John Olcott of
Perry, $1250. Saturday, for the loss of
bis home by fire, caused by a defectl ve
chimney. '
William VanMeer of Iinsh township,
was allowed $1037.25 for tbe loss of a
V10 n rraln htan1 tnAta t.k A .
"vi, iuo uiv yiv
somabl? started by VanMeer's son -who
bad been searching the barn for g. t
"ii.i"m vuiiid m uuinniuscs ll'YVU"
ship, wm pld $182 l-r the los of a
. a I. 1 1 a - 1
ri v. r. . u u w vj wymim,
from a threshing engine.
THE MUNICIPAL
CHRISTMAS TREE
EXERCISES ENJOYED BY THRONG
SATURDAY EVENING.
Owosso's fourth annual Municipal
Christmas tree celebration was folly
enjoyed by a crowd of happy people
that filled the streets on all sides at the
corner of Mason and WawhicRton streets
Saturday evening. Tbe ..tree was a
large one, beautifully lighted and trim
med. Church bells were tolled and then
the lights turned on, and. the. children,
headed by the boy scouts, marched from
the I. O. O. F. temple and saug "Long
Years Ago," "Away in the Manger,"
and "Silent Night." under the direction
of G. C. Reineke. Dr. G. B. Porter
rendered the "Holy City" on the cornet
and the services closed with mnsic by
the Owosso City band.
The arrangements were made by the
Owosso Federated clubs.
FIRST ANNUAL BANQUET
Owosso High School Alumni Enjoy
Reunion at Armory.
The first annnal banquet of the
Owosso high school alumni was held at
the armorv Wednesday evening, and a
pleasant time enjoyed by the seventy
seven members who responded to the
invitations. The armory was decorated
in various combinations of colors, blue
and gold, gold and white and blue and
white. A reception by the officers wa
held from 7:30 to 8:30, those in line
being Cecil McLean, president; Mabel
Ashton. vice president and Anna Mason,
secretary. MrsTCbas. Sackrider and
Mrs. Frank Kohler furnished music
dnring the reception.
: At 8:30 a delicious four-course dinner
was served by the Ladies' Guild of
Christ Episcopal church, twenty high
school girls acting as waitresses.
Cecil McLean acted as toastma&ter to
a program of three numbers Stanley
Grill of the class of 1913, talked of tbe
"Outlook," dlsting the future and pur
poses of the association. J. .N. McBride
of Burton, of the class of 1883, talked of
"Michigan," dwelling on the resources
and development Of this great state and
of . its fine school system. fMiss Anna
Mason, secretary of the association, told
of its organization and of the plans and
efforts to start with a large gathering
this year.
The election resulted in the selection
- T 1. a 1 3 m ! a. . 1
Cudney, vice president; Miss Elsie
"Whinnle. aecretarv: and Mlaa iCUm.
Flickinger, treasurer.
Amorg those present was Mrs. Albert
Todd, the only surviving member of the
first class graduated from tbe Owosso
high school, that of 1870, which con
sisted of Mrs Todd, Fred Oubum, Miss
Clarabelle . Anient, Neal Dewey and
Erastus Barnes.
Owosso Students Entertain,
Mi, and Mrs. H. D. Lyon entertain
ed a party of frien!f Tuesday even
ing to hear their daughter, Miss
Eleanor, who is. attending Oberlin
cnnsprvflfnrv. ronrlpr 'n nnmhop !
v " V
piamy selections. Miss Lyon, who ia '
a pupil of Professor Rreckenridgc,
gave a splendid rendition of several
sohotns. . Her techinique is especially
good 'and she jior.t rayed a wide range
of feeling by her playing. She wag
assisted by Miss Kntherine Payne,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Hnrrv
,ing was greatly enjoved.
Miss 'Arlene Lawrence, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lawrence, East
Oliver street, third year student at
Oberlin college, delighted the guests
with her intcrpatcn? dancing. . She
was appropriately gowned in Grecian
draperies and her first dance was "To
a Narsissis..' She also gave two in r
terprctntions of "To a Rose." She is
extremely craepfnl and i shonillv
adapted ",to this Hhe of York. Miss
Lawn rice's friends predict a future
for her in interpetenc dancing.
Light refreshments wore sen-oil by
Misses Esther Lyon and Helen Hall,
and Mrs. Harold Lvon. -
Six Motions in McDonald-Hall Case.
Six separate "motions were argued
in the oircuit court Thursday irf tho
tangle of litigation represented by tho
cases of Hugh McDonald against L. C.
1T-11 .1 -I -l l T T 1. y r t ti
mm ft ni anu iiugn lucionaia
against Hall's attorney, John T. Mc-..
Curdy. The most important motion
.piTIUipS WHS DTlBjlOr lieW , Inai OI
the McDonaldyiall case, in wh'ich av
.. . . .. . .
iniuv ruun.jury recently nwarueu
the plaintiff, a' verdict of $3,400. ' ; :.
