VOL. LXXXin.
BRATTLEBORO, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1!)1G.
NO. 52.
TO EVERYBODY
WE WISH
A Happy and Prosperous
New Year
and we wish to thank our many
patrons for helping to make the
past year the best during our
thirty-one years in Brattleboro
EMERSON & SON
Everything tor Housekeeping
BRATTLEBORO
On Account of the High
Price of Corn Goods
We suggest our CRUSHED
and GROUND OATS.
We also have received sev
eral thousand sacks of
DISTILLERS' GRAINS,
BREWERS' GRAINS, and
1 ALT SPROUTS. M
The sale of our READY RA
TION is increasing daily and
is used by many of the largest
and most discriminating feed
ers in New England.
E. CROSBY & CO.
New York is the Home of Fashion
For Men's Clothes
Suits, Overcoats and Trousers
Mndc to Your Order
Cut to vour individual measure by ex
pert cutters und niado up by skilled
workmen lu thclatot style by the best
custom tailors in New York city.
Suits from $20.00 up
Overcoats from $22.50 up
THE BEST THERE IS IN TAILORING
WALTER H. HAIGH
Custom Tailor Elliot Street
Basswood and White
Pine Lumber Wanted
For price and detailed
information write to
The New England Box Co.
LUMIIEIt DEI'AUTMKNT
Greenfield, Mass.
Moran&Rohde
Embalmers and Funeral Directors
Phone 334-W. 57 Main St., Brattleboro, Vt.
Vt. Llccnso 10 U1H5. N. II. Uconec227.
Masuchucsetts License 1702
Hammocks, Couches,
Croquet
-AT-
CLAPP & JONES'S
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEY, Mgr.
Jllna Itlbbon Cuernnor Butter nd I'ure
bred Hull Culrea for lc.
VUltora alwr welcome. Orders taken
now for pure Maple Byrup.
WANTED.
WANTED A woman who wiiles a
(Hurt hand, for olllci- woilt. Address l!o
II. Phoenix (tlllfc.
WANTED A young woman to do type
writing and cleiical work. Address M.
11., Phoenix: Olllec. 52
WANTED .Middle-aged woman for
housekeeper, good home, moderate wages.
11. W. HAHDV, Rural 0. Brattleboio. 5!i
WANTED A man for shipping and
general work Inside. Wages $50 per
month. Address A. F. II., Phoenix Ofllce.
WANTED At the Jlelrose hospital,
West Hrattleboro, Vt., a good, 3trong
young woman as laundress. Good pay to
reliable help. Gl-tf
WANTED Jlan and wife Jlan for
chores and general farm work, must bo
a good milker; woman for general house
work. Address with rcfereneo Wales K.
Adams, Dickinson Farm, Rural 1, Box
SI, Hrattleboro, Vt. Gl-tf
WANTED G1RI.S to operate clothes
pin and dish machines and for counters
and packers. Wages $1.25 per day with
a bonus of $1.00 per week to cvety girl
who works her full number of hours.
Counters and puckers who pack 100 boxes
a dav will be paid S1.G0 per day stialght.
Kxcellent hoarding house in connection
where board and rcom may be obtained
for $1.00 per week. .Matlun in altend
uu'o. parlors for the girls, hot and cold
water, and all conveniences. Fare to
this town will be returned to all gills
who lemain in our employ ninety days.
Address IA'DIXOTOX WOODICNWAKll
a'JU'.mv, Wilmington, vt.
Z
LEGAL NOTICES.
ESTATE OF FRANK M. DICKINSON.
UTATB OF VKRMONT,
District of Westminster. SS.
Tho Honorable Probate Court lor the
uimiici Airiresaiu:
To all nelsons Interested In the estate
of Frank M. Dickinson, late of Putney,
in said district, deceased. Greeting:
Whereas, said ccurt has assigned tho
3d day of February, 1917, next, for exam
ining aim allowing lhe account of the
executor of the estate of s-ild deceased.
and for a decieo of the residue of said
estate to the lawful claimants of the
same, and otdered that public notice
thereof be given to all persons Interested
in said estate by publishing this oider
three weeks successively previous to the
day assigned, in The Vermont Phoenix, a
newspaper puhlii-hed at Urattloboro, in
s.ild distiict.
The! ef ore, you are hereby notified to
appear at the probate olllec In Bellows
Falls, in said district, on the day as
signed, then and there to contest the al
lowance of said account If you see canto,
and to establish your light as heirs, leg
atees and lawful claimants to said resi
due. Given under my hiiud, this 27th day of
December, 1 !( 1 n.
52-2 WAUNF.lt A. GRAHAM, Judge.
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS can nl
ways be had at right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street. Brattleboro
R. G. BOYD
Manufacturer of All Kinds of
Silos, Watering Troughs, Tanks
and Lock Joint Boxes
Also General Wn"il working nnd lllackemlthlntr
WKST lUlATTMSIIOHO. V T.
EXCLUSIV EU N DERTAKING
Embalmers
Automobile He r?lte Telephone 764-W
HIUrrt.BtTtO VT
The Melrose Hospital
WEST DRATTLEBORO, VT.
Well equipped for the caro of medi
cal, surKlcal and confinement cases, also
chronic invalids, rheumatics, nervous and
mild mental cases. Skilled nursing, good
food and icasonablo rates.
I)lt. B. It. LYNCH, Supt.
Helena D. Mathews, Matron.
First Mortgage Loans
This Company offor3 ovory facility for safo nnd profltablo Invest
ment of surplus funds In carefully selected Farm Mortgages In Montana,
Idaho, Washington and Oregon, to not 0 per cont. Theso m'ortgages aro
tho choicost oiTorings from theso sections, and aro especially dcslrablo
for financial Institutions, holders of trust funds, or private invoators,
placing safoty of principal ahovo returns. Our officers havo had long
years of experienco in this field. Our service will meet the requirements
of tho most exacting.
Vermont Loan & Trust Company
F. B. PUTNAM, Sales Manager, BRATTLEBORO, VERMONT
FOB. SALE.
FOR SALE Silfjnr tools, Including Ucl
Iowh Falls evaporator, lni-Re storage tub,
about U00 buckets. Address SUGAR
TOOLS. Phoenix Olllec. 52-1
FOR SALE Hand-picked apples, 11.
Russets, Hottlo and Ithudo Island Ci ceil
ings; ltaldwlns graded ucrordim? to tho
new law. Tel. fl-l. . lUIUM'S. IT-tr
FOR SALE 1 l'. S. cream separator, 1
cook stove, 1 lieatcr and z palr.s heavy
woilc lianiesscs, nil In rood condition,
lit A JAY DUTTON, Wanlsboro, Vt.
4S.-tf
FOR SALE Klcven three year old
steers. Kino grade, good condition. Also
tlneo yearling hcifeii. Apply Tltts Farm,
West iJummer.ston, K. U. Howard, .Mgr.
P. O. Address It. D. B, Urattloboro. Tel.
a-is. is-tr
FOR SALE Pair well-matched black
horses, weigh about 2,'J00 lbs., sound and
gentle, extra good workers and in good
order. Price low, as I havo no use for
them. Call or wilto 13. A. ESTAUHOOU,
Wilmington, Vt. 49-52
FOR SALE IlOItStrS: Just atrived
with an express load of Ohio horses; 1100
to 1750 lbs. each; several good pairs,
2100 to 31150 lbs.; bays, blacks, greys and
chestnuts. Anyone looking for horses
will do well to look at this load. Having
bought this lead personally I know Just
what they are all nicely broken and
re.idy to woils. I have 4'i head to select
from ,M. J. TUTRRAnr. -Mansion
Ili'UM', (lioenlield, .Mass. 52
FOR GALE The well known TVI.Ktl
FARM at .South Vernon, Vt. About 1IS0
acres, tillage, pasture and woodland.
I. 'iige farm buildings In good condition;
tobacco barn neatly new. liny, stock,
tools and machinery with tho place. lo
cated two miles from stores, postoflico
and railway station; .'! 1-2 miles from
Xorthlleld seminary. Two trout brooks
on the place. Call or write to GICORGK
II. TVMCIt, South Vernon, Vt. 51-2
FOR SALE Forty hcrses. We will ar
rive Dec. 23 with 30 head. Five teams
3200 to 3700; five teams, 2G0O to 2900,
300O, 31U0; several big marcs in load,
IGoti to 1S0O; single horses 1250 to 1750.
All young, sound, und nice quality. A
few secondsone pair, ago 9 and 12. 2900.
good order and true; one black mare, D,
115(1; ono black horse, 1350, ago 9. Team
sleds lor ono and two horses. Team and
1 living harness. Sleighs und blankets.
All horses warranted as representoJ.
Next leud In three weekB. GUII-FOllD ifc
WOOD Uniisn CO.. i. J. Wood. Proi..
3he!hurn; Falls; aiiiss. . Sl-es
SPECIAL NOTICES.
CHIROPODY and Shampoo Parlors
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. MRS. 11 P. ISAII.KY. 117 Main
St. Phone. 1'j-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING of nil kinds
uid chimney cleaning done to order. K.
D. TOltlUOV. 511 Fiost St.. Hrattleboro.
Telephone 473-W.
LIBERAL REWARD
Will be paid for information which will
result In tho arrest ami conviction of
the person or persons who stole 12 Mus
covy ducKs from the Maple Grove Farm
In Vernon. MRS. Jl'I.IA H. FROST.
Vernon, Vt., Dec. 20. 51
Peace on earth
Is aided nn.l abetted n while lot by good
life insurance. t!7th year. National Life
Insurance Co., Montpelier, Vt. (Mutual. )
ALBERT C. LAIRD. Special Agent
Abbott Block, Brattleboro Vt.
Copyright ITatt Scbalfner S: Marx
Here's to reinforced health
well heeled wealth and no
short stock of happiness
E. E. PERRY & CO.
ALWAYS RELIABLE
SEWING MACHINE CASE ENDS.
Hartnott Pays About $150 and Costs
of $10.85 to Dlsposo of Action
Brought by Singer Company.
Tho ease of tho Singer Sewing Ma
chine Co. against Edward D. Hartnott
of Windsor, formerly an agent of the
company in Brattleboro, in -which em
bezzlement was charged, -was settled
late Friday afternoon. Ilartnctt paid
about .$150 and-costs of $10.85 and the
clinrge was dismissed. Ho was arrest
ed at Windsor November "5 and tho
case was continued to Friday after
Hartnett had opened negotiations for a
settlement.
Tho company claimed that ho sold
one or two mnehinos for which ho made
no return, giving a personal receipt in
stead of a receipt provided by tho com
jiany, and that in other instances ho
sold machines on leases, receiving there
for advance commissions, one or more
of which were fake sales, tho company
claimed. Hartnett denied any Wrong
doing and claimed that two of tho ma
chines were destroyed in a lire which
burned tho building in which lie had
his headquarters.
FORMER HALIFAX MAN.
Prank 3eavcr, Civil War Veteran, Died
in Orange, Mass.
Frank Seaver, 7(i. died in Orange.
Mass., Sunday night after an illness of
les than a week. Mr. Seaver wa.4 born in
Halifax, Vt., where ho spent his early life,
i He went to the front at the outbreak of
the Civil war in the 4th A'ermont iufan
' try, Company 1. He moved to Orange
j coon after the war, whom he had since
made his home, with the exception of a
few years. Ho was employed for many
years in tho New Home lewing machine
works ami other Oi-anere f.-intm-irw Mn
worked for 'Mime years on the road de
partment of 4he town. He wo'i an active
memlier of -Sedgwick Cnind Army post.
He is survived by bis wit'eYntLa daughter,
Ofrs. woy .Willed. .aJlL ra.-cy.r
held at the hom- YVeqB,- afternoon,
Rev. A. Campbell cfeHcd the ser
vices. Hurial took plB Halifax.
WORST BLIZZARD IN YEARS.
Late Trains Prevent Montpelier Peo
plo from Attending Funeral of
Clarko C. Fitts.
The worst blizzaid in many years visited
Montpelier Friday night. All trains
were from two to 12 !?ours late Satur
day. The covered bridge in Moretown,
over tlie Mad river, was blown into
thy stream. Many Montpelier people
who plnuncd to go to Hrattleboro Sat
urday to attend the i'uneial of Clarke
C. Fitts, were obliged to abandon the
trip on account of tho lateness of the
train.
Agricultural implements, glassware,
canned meats and woolen goods are in
demand at Capo Town, South Africa.
TEN PAGES
BRATTLEBORO.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 120, 1910.
THE VERMONT PH(ENIX
Published Ia Drsttleboro erery Friday.
SUBSCRIPTION PRIOB $1.50 A TEAR.
$1.00 for eight months: 75 cents for six
months; 50 cents for four months; 40 cents
for throe months. All subscriptions aro par
able strictly In advance, and all papers are
stopped promptly at their expiration unless
tho subscriptions aro renewed.
Rates of display advertising famished on
application. Small classified advertisements,
10 cents per line first insertion, five cents per
line each subsequent insertion.
(Entered at tho Brattleboro post ofllce as
second class malt matter.)
MILK MEN ORGANIZE.
iV wave of enthusiasm is sweeping over
New England in behalf of organized
dairying. It bids fair to have splendid
expression tomorrow, Saturday, Dec." 30,
in each of Now England's rural coun
ties. While the notice is comparative
ly short, the arrangements for each
meeting are well organized. The Wind
ham count' meeting will be held in
Townshenit.
The interest in every county is in
tense. There is healthy rivalry to in
sure "the best meeting of all for my
county'', in point of attendance, de
termination, interest, enthusiasm and
wisdom of action. Tho list of speakers
obtained is a splendid one. Each of its
speakers will net forth how the New
England .Milk l'roducers' association
seemed the full market value for milk
sold this winter, and thus put more than
$1 ,000,000 of extra money into the
fanners' pockets. A big contest is
coming over the summer prico for milk.
Therefore every cow owner whoso prod
uct is consumed in New England should
be lined up in the New England Milk
Producers' association, wlulo those on
the western edge of this territory who
ship to Xew York may affiliato with its
league.
It will be emphasized, how tho Now
England Milk Producers' association
covers all 'New England, and how each
new member who joins now, will havo
the snin'n rights and nrivilcircs. in licr-
egate from his local organ
ization, as present or former members,
in the approaching annual meeting
when the members will adopt a consti
tution and by-laws adapted to tho larger
work in view.
We arc glad to seo tho embattled
farmers coming to their own. We have
contended all nlong that in comparison
with other food commodities milk was
being sold at a very small profit. Wo
hope the turn of events will bring more
money to the farmers, and that they in
turn will strive to provide for the con
sumers absolutely clean, fresh rich milk.
Adjutant General Lee S. Tillotson has
made a strong defence of our National
Guard. Tho officers and men enlisted
in it wero ready for almost immediate
service last summer. The federal offi
cials were the persons responsible for
repeated bungling.
Germany and her allies mako a polito
and complimentary reply to President
Wilson's note, which they call a high
minded suggestion, but they do not com
ply with the request, which is the prin
cipal part (if tho Prosidcnt 's communi
cation, that the bclligeients make ex
plicit statements of tho terms upon
which they would be willing to end the
war anil conclude a lasting peace. Ger
many merely says that it would be a
good idea to got the delegates of the
waning nntions together, so that tho
peace terms may be discussed. It is
noticeable that this suggestion omits
to say that a delegate from the I'nited
States should be included in the pro
posed cont'd ence. The Germans, in ad
dltiou to all of their accomplishments,
are a very craftv bunch.
"Back to the Soil" ought to be tho
watchword more strenuously thun over
next spring. All repoits ogreo that
everything that enters into household
economy is going to bo fully as high as
now, and many things even higher
A'cgetables, says Secretary Wheeler of
the Massachusetts state board of ugn
culture, are going to be much higher,
because of the shortage of labor caused
by the great war, while seeds and fer
tilizers will also go up. Holland, Den
murk, France and England furnish a
largo part of tho seeds used by vege
table growers in this country, and be
cause of searcltv each of theso eoun
tries has laid an embargo u'gninst seed
exports. Persons who usually follow
the occupation of farm laborers in the
spring, at least, are finding wages in
munition fnctovies more attractive than
on the farm, while the production of
fertilizer has been curtailed beenuso of
the fact that Germany is using very
largo quantities of potash in tho man
ufaeturo of some of its high explosives,
GOLD SWORD FOR COMMANDER.
Presentation Mado to Right Eminent
Sir Prank B. Putnam by Bcauscant
Commandory, K. T.
The feature of the annual Christmas
day observance of Beauseant command
cry, Knights Templar, held at noon at
the time when every commandcry in
the United States was in session, wns
the presentation to Right Eminent Sir
Frank B. lutnum, nrand commander of
tho grand commandcry of Vermont, of
a beautiful gold sword and scabbard.
Mr. Putnam was elected to his ex
alted office at the annual meeting of the
grand commandcry hold in Builington
last June. At an opportune, moment
Senior Warden Oscar E. Benson, who
was acting recorder for the day, arose
and in very felicitous terms made the
presentation, saying that it was fitting
at this time for Beauseatit commandcry
to make recognition of the promotion
of one of its past commanders to the
highest oflleo in the gift of the Knights
Templar of Vermont. He said that this
gift was a symbol of the affection and
esteem in which tho grand commander
was held by every member of his home
commandcry and in closing he offered
the sentiment that Mr. Putnam 's reign
as grand commander be a most suc
cessful ono and his life hero among us
a long and happy one. Mr. Putnam wns
visibly affected by tho presentation,
which camo to him as a complete sur
prise, lie made a brief but very ef
fective response.
Th- sword is suitably engraved with
Mr. Putnam's name and title, and with
words showing that it was presented to
him on Christinas day, 1910, by Bcau
scant commandcry. Mr. Putnam is the
third Brattleboro man to hold this high
office. The other two grand command
ers were the late Col. Kittredgo Ilas
l.ins and tho late Dr. D. P. Webster.
Over 00 Sir Knights were present and
there was the usual exchange of senti
ments with Most Eminent Sir Lee S.
Smith of Pittsburg, Pa grand master
of the grand ehenmpment, and with
Grand Commander Putnam. Major 1'.
W. Childs was called upon for lemnrks,
which he made in a very pleasant way.
Greetings were wired to, three former
commanders, Albert L. Clnrk, David A.
Young and Fred II. Holden, now resi
dcntH of other states, and to Rev. E. T.
Mathison of Rockville, Conn., for six
years prelate of tho coinmanilery.
TO RETAIN FITTS OFFICES.
Attorneys Eddy and Whitney to Prac
tice Law Together Mr. Eddy Mado
Director of Power Co.
,A"!t.'ieo(.t-i't lias beMi entoted iito
whereby Attornov Jlcrmon E. Eddy
Ullll lllUllll' llUlUllt 1J, VllIllll'J WJII
.... .i I.i. n I .1 ...1 nfi lo f ., till. n1'.
fices of the lato Attorney Clarko C.
. . i. "VTa! 1 1.-..!.
f lits in 1110 crmont iaiionai uaun
l.i.it.llurr Tvlinrn Hmv worn associated
Ul,ua.,, . i .... - t' ...--
...!tl. Mi- Vitfo frnm tho tinill nf tllCir
admission to the Vermont bar. They
will retain both the second and tlinci
floors, as at present.
Mr. Pitts 's large law library and his
office furniture will go to his oldest son,
. . ....... , 41.....
KOUeri Jj. f lits, WHO huh anuum v.n
iii flu irnvv.ml law school, but they
will remain in the present offices. Ar
rangements wero completed some time
ago for Robert L. Fitts, after his grad
untwin tn tnlfn n nnsitinn with a lirom-
incut Boston law firm, but whether this
arrangement will be carried nut, in view
of Mr. Fitts 's death, or whether he will
wisli to become associated witli Attor
neys Eddy and Whitney remains for the
future to determine.
That Attorneys Eddy and Whitney
lit... .i finn nminrtlinitv lldt'nrn tllOtn in
apparent to all. Some of Mr. Fitts V
largest clients have signiheil their wish
to have these attorneys act for them.
In a special meeting Wednesday after
noon of the Connecticut River Power
Co. Mr. Eddy was elected vice president
and director to succeed Mr. Fitts. Mr.
Whitney already was a director and
secretary. The board of directors is
now made up a follows: t'rcsideut,
Plmrlne A TlnrriG. vinn nrnsiilnnt. Tlnr-
ninn E. Eddy; treasurer, William W.
Brooks of Boston; clerk, Edalbcrt ..
Temple of Hinsdale, N. H., secretary,
Harold E. Whitney.
President Wilson 's peace note has re
ceived the hearty approval of the neu
tral nations of Europe, and Sweden and
Switzerland have shown a desire to aid
this country in securing negotiations ut
nn earlv date. Great Britain and
France have either received the pro
posals in silence or in actual contempt.
Germany has replied to this country,
but has evaded the question in regard
to definite terms, and lias suggested a
conference at The Hague.
We still have n watchful waiting
policy towards Mexico. Old Carranza
is nt the head of the do facto govern
meat, but the country is still far from
pacified. Villa is capturing cities in the
northern section, and on the east const
another band of bandits has been able
to take villages and valuable proper-
tics from tho so-called authorities, Car
ranza will not agree to the protocol
signed by the Mexican commissioners
who met tho representatives of our ad
ministration. He demands important
changes, one being that tho troops un
der command of General Pershing bo
withdrawn unconditionally. Tho Phoe
nix is still of tho opinion, expressed
three or more years ago, that Moxico
will never have a stable government
until tho United States gives it some
sort of u protectorate.
It's a hopeless task to try to reason with
stupidity.
TREE CRUSHED SKULL
Walter A. Johnson ofWestminstcr
Instantly Killed in Woods
Struck by Oak Ho Had Dislodged
Body Lifted Into Sleigh by Compan
ion, John Winters, and Taken Homo.
WESTM INST Kit, Dec. 2S.
While workinir in the woods on his
own land late yesterday afternoon Wal
ter A. Johnson was stiuck on the head
by a falling tree and was instantly
killed.
Mr. .lohnson and John Winters went
into the woods on Mr. .lohnsou's hill
pasture to cut wood. During their
work an oak tree from eight to 30
inches thiough became lodged in throe
of the tics, about L'O feet from the
ground.
The men set about to dislodge tho
tree about -1 o'clock, intending to stop
for the day when that was done. Tlicy
dislodged it ami started to run, Mr.
Winters being just ahead of Mr. John
son, and as the tree fell it struck Mr.
Johnson, dusking his skull and knock
ing him to the ground.
Mr. Winters lifted the body into a
sleigh in which they had ridden to the
woods, and reached' the Johnson homo
shortly before f! o'clock.
Th scene of the accident was be
tween two and three miles west of
Westminster village, toward Westmin
ster West.
Mr. Johnson was 41 years old. He
was born in this town, n son of Nelson
and Sophia (Arnold) Johnson and had
always lived in town. His pnrents are
dead. Mr. Johnson married Elbru
Hooper of Wolpole, N. H., Jan. 7, lPf::.
Ho leaves his wife and one child, Carl
Nelson Johnson, three years old. Also
one sister, Mrs. Carl Adiims of Kecne,
N. 11.
He was a niemb'r of the lodge of
Odd Fellows in Wnlpole, of Bovdcu
Grange ot this village and of the Men's
club of the Westminster Congregation
si church.
The funeral will bo held Saturday nt
the Congregational church of Keene,
1 o'clock, Rev. W. O. Conrad, pastor ot
officliting.
DAIRYMEN TO MEET HERE.
Now England Milk Producers' Associa
tion to bo Represented Session in
Town Hall Saturday.
On Saturday of this wcek nt 10 a. in.
in the town hall, BrnttloboroVUhore'
bo a meeting that should 'bo of interest
to all xlairymen In Windham county.
Tho meeting- is called nt tho request of
Secretary Richard Pnttco of tho New
England' Milk Producers' association
and similar meetings will be held nt
tho same time in all the 07 counties in
New England.
The situation to date has received the
careful consideration of the Windham
County Agricultural association dairy
committee, consisting of A. A. 'Jttnkleo
of South Vernon. 11. W. Frost of East
Putncv. and E. C. Teuuev of Bummers-
ton. The committee feels that this
movement has a very worthy object,
which if only partially accomplished
will be of benefit to all dairymen in
Xew England, whether they sell milk,
cream or butter.
The obieets of the milk producers
association as set forth by their consti
tution are as follows: "To enable its
members to secure the full market val
ue foi their dairy products; to improve
methods of milk production, utilization,
standardization, distribution ana use;
to encourage the breeding and raising
of better dairy stock; to promote the
more economical feeding of live stock:
to foster co-operation in agriculture and
especially in dairying; and in general
to improve agricultural conditions and
niing about a nettcr umicrstaiuiinj:
1 etween the pioducer.i of ilaliy prod
ucts and the consumers thereat. 1-s
pecinlly is it the purpose of this asso
ciation that each ot its individual mem
bers, subordinate organizations, officials
and employes shall scrupulously onsen e
all national and st'ite laws, also all lo
cal ordinances, relating to any or all
oporntion of this association."
The meeting will begin promptly at
10 o'clock and the principal speaker
vy ill be II. L. Webster of East Canaan,
N. H., who is one of the officers oi
the New England Milk Producers' as
sociation. Mr. Webster will explain
what the association lias done, what it
aims to do and what it can do if eveiv
dairyman in New England becomes a
part of it.
All dairymen in Windham county
and those in New Hampshire finding it
more- convenient to come here are urged
to bo present and receive first hand
information on this movement.
MRS. GEORGE M. STARK.
Death Occurred Saturday Morning
Had Sustained Two Shocks.
Mrs. Ellen h. (Gorhnm) Stark, 00,
wife of George -M. Stark, died Saturdav
morning in her home, .'II Cedar street.
She had been in failing health several
years and recently had sustained two
shocks.
Mrs. Staik was born in Putncv March
.'10, 18.10, a daughter of Bradford ami
Haehael Goiham. She married Clinton
Hall, who died several years ago. On
Aug. It, Irtlll, in Brattleboro she married
Mr. Stark.
Besides her husband she leaves one
sister, Mrs. Martha Pratt of Brattle
boro, ami several nieces and nephews.
The funeral was held Monday morn
ing nt 10.30 o'clock nt tho house, '!!
Cednr street, Rev. 1. M. Comptnn, pas
tor of the West Brattleboro Baptist
church, officiating. Tho body was taken
to Wllliamsville for burial.
