RUSSIANS CAPTURE MORE THAN 40.000 IN NEW DRIVE
WEATHER Rain to-night; Thursday probably clearing.
ETO7VOV
u Circtdation Books Open to AIL"
"Circulation Hooks Open to AIL"
PRICE ONE CENT. Cw,l& nXm"'1' NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1916. 18 PAGES PRICE ONE CENT.
MMML
WW
BULL MOOSE CHEER 95 MINUTES
AT T. R.'S NAME IN CONVENTION
RUSSIANS TAKE 40,000 MEN
AND 900 OFFICERS PRISONERS
IN GREAT NEW OFFENSIVE
Seventy-seven Guns aiul 139
Machine Guns Captured,
Pelrogracl Announces.
1,300,000 IN CAMPAIGN.
Gen. Hindenbtirti Reporte.l
Placed in Command of
Austro-German Forces.
PRTROORAD, .Mine 7 (via tril
lion). In their new offensive move
ment the Russians liavc captiii'-d
more th.ui40.ati0 men, lt.,ws an
nounced otllcially to-dny
The War OtlU-e statement nay if tint
nn the lino between the Prlpct and tho
Rumanian frontier, over which the
campaign b lielng fought, the Rus
ans thus for have taken 30O oftVeit,
10,000 men. " sun. 131 machine guns
.ml I'.' liotnl) l'Moner.
Thi' offtct.xl report nf yesterday
stated that about S5.00O prisoners
hud been taken, so that to. day's re
port Indicates the capture of 15,000
additional men In the Intervening
twenty-four hour.
No intimation la Kiven in regard to
the sections of the front on whlth
the principal successes have been won.
LONDON, June ".Continuing the
brill. .tnt success that marked thr
start of their offensive) against the
Austro-Cieruian linen on a 130-inilo
trout, the Russian War OlMec an
nounces thai the Cr.tr' troops are
si1'' advancing.
The seriousness ot the pllaht of
the Teutonic troops, made up in
, most part of Austro-Hunnarians.
is shown, military critics here
assart, In despatches from Hol
land that Field Marshal von
Hindenburo. who was preparing
for a great German drive against
the Riga sector, on the western
Russian front, has been placed In
tupreme personal command of
the forces attacked by the Rus
sians In the southeast.
More than OiO.OOO Austro-ilungarl-pb
and Germans are facing the Hus
lans on the front from the Prlpet
illver to the flotimanlan border, and
It In believed Gen. Uruslloff, com
manding the Slav forcos, has twice
an many men at bis command, all
newly equipped and plentifully sup
plied with ummunltlon nnd new artil
lery from England, France, Japan
and the United States.
With the exception of tli brief
fllclal communications regarding the
new offensive movement, which are
are of details, almost no informa
tion has been received in regard to
the new campaign of the RusMans.
Petrograd correspondents have been
permitted to cable only a few de
spatches regarding the expected poll,
ileal effects of the. move and other
mbhldiary features.
Tho lack of Information concerning
this campaign probably is due to the
policy ot Gen. Bruslloff. It bos beep
reported that one of hl first acts on
assuming command was to send the
newspaper correspondenta bad, to
Petrograd.
One result of the Russian offensive
already has been een on tile Italian
front, whore King Victor Emmanuel'
troops were, being hard preyed
within their own borders by the Au.
htrlan offensive. There haB been no
progress of the victorious Austrlans
on the Trentlno front for foity-Mght
Coutinud on Third I'aro
GERMANY INSISTS
THAT WARSPITE
WAS DESTROYED
Kiel Despatches Claim British
Battle Cruiser Was Sunk by
the Battleship Koenig.
BERLIN, .luno 7 (by Wlitdens tn
Huyvllle). The assertion that the
Hrltlah dreadnought Warspite waa
sunk In the North Sea battle last
week is a?ain made In despatches
from Kiel to the Overseas New.
Agency, notwithstanding Urltlsh de
nials, "These despatches statu that the
W.irapltn nun sunk during tho day
battle by the Herman battleship
Koenlg," tho News Agency nays. "It
was observed from tho Koenlg that
the Wnrsplte had been damaged bad
ly. Then there came n great explos
ion, and the Woraplto sank rapidly.
"Survivors from tho German cruiser
HI bin g say that German submarine
played an Important part in the bat
tle. Tho sea was thrown Into com
motion by falling shells. livery
whern bodies wore floating.
"Sailors state that tho leport that
tho German ship lied Ls ridiculous.
In tha German fleet wero several ves
sels which wero slower than tho Brit
ish, and on that account It would
have been Impossible for the German
fleet to "Escape if tln lesult of tho
battle bud bcu such as to pluoe the
British in a position to putsue the
Germane.
"Tho satlom leport that iheia wan
unintermpted flglitlng for seventeen
'.mure. They hud no food In that
time, excopt that bieail wus passed
aruund'once. Tho sailors are In good
condition, and tlo not look like men
who have passed through (be greatest
naval battle ever fought."
ASQUITH TAKES CHARGE
OF BRITISH WAR OFFICE
Windsor Race Meeting Cancelled at
Request of Jockey Club Because
of Lord Kitchener's Death.
LONDON, June 7. Premier Asquitb
temporarily has taken personal
charge of the War Office.
At the suggestion of the Jockey
Club the Windsor race meeting which
was to have been held this week has
been cancelled on account of Karl
Kitchener's death.
MRS, 6RAHAME-WHITE
GETS LONDON DIVORCE
Her Husband, Noted Aviator,
hailed to Comply With Decree for
Restitution of Conjugal Rights-.
LONUON, June 7 Mrs Claude
Grahams. White, formerly MLis Doro.
thy Taylor of New York, to.dey was
given a divorce from her husband,
thn aviator. The decree was granted
on the grounds that Grahame-Wblto
now a flight commander In the Urll
i.th aMiitk'ti wrUre, liucl not complied
u ith i hA derive ln the restitution nf
' . iiiijiisal rights Kiiiiiid to iIk if
latt Januar,
T
BY HIS DAUGHTER
AT RIFLE PRACTICE
Bullet Prom Gun of S-Vcar-Old
Girl Badly Wounds D. F.
Boyden at Country Home.
to Tlic Ktrnli.e WnrM I
MKRUDITH. N. 11.. June 7. D. K.
Boyden, a wealthy New York
artist and resident of Greenwich,
Conn., who about a month ago pur
chased the summer cititle of Samuel
rowers here. :i cc-lilcn tally shot
last nlglil by Ills e;ht-ycar-old
diiughttr. The family, six in number,
were at rifle practice and the atten
tion of the little girl, holding a cocked
rifle, was attracted from the target.
Turning, her finger pressod tho trig
ger and the bullet entered Mr. Hoy
dens chest, tore Its way along the
ribs and puncjuictl.the lungs.
Dr. F". j. Hawkins extracted tho
bullet, and unless complications en
sue Mr. Hoyden will live. Hoyden ls
fifty years old.
Mr. Boyden waa nn artist of some
prominence. He had lived In Green
wich for many years, and until ro-
icently maintained a .studio In New
I Yoik. He gave up his Greeii.vieh
1 home at No. 136 Maple Avenue several
months ago, and with members of hi
family went to Lake Wlnutpesuukee,
Mass.
EASTERN GOLF HONORS
WON BY MRS. GAVIN
hornier British Player Takes the
Women's Championship on
Essex County Club Links.
MANCHESTER, Mass., June 7. Mrs.
W. A. Gavin of Cherry Valley, N. Y.,
n former British player, to-dny won
the women's Eastern Golf Axaoclntion
championship tournament ocr the
links of the Kssex Count Club.
Her score for the lift -four holes of
medal play wua -iiG strokes.
The cards ot Miss Marion llolilns
of Westbrook for the three days'
play totalled "it. tne second lowest
score.
Miss Hart lot S, Cmt.. ol "ie home
club and Mrs. It. II. flirlo of the
Merlon Crloket Club were tieil with
an aggregate of 273 strokes each.
Miss Vera Ramsey, playing from the
Salem Country Club, hnd n toUl of
ill.
Miss Holllns returned the nest card
for the third day's play, &7. which
gavti her second place over Miss Cur
tis and Mrs. liailou, both of wliom
had an advantage over when the tblid
round watt begun. Mrs. Gavin wni
around in 90, Mrs. Hallow In 9'.'. Miss
Ramsey in 93,
r
NEW YORK AVIATOR,
RECORD HOLDER, KILLED
atete MacGordon, Seen Here Last
Week, Burned in His
Aeroplane.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va., JUDe 7.
Stere MacQordon, aviator at the At
lantic Coast aeronautical station,
died here late last night from burns
received yesterday when his aero
plane was destroyed by tire.
MacOordon was thlrty-tbtee years
old and a native of New York City,
lie was the holder ot the American
altitude record, having ascended morti
than 15,000 feet. Ona ot his latest
achievements was a non-stop flight
from Newport News to Sheopihcad
Bay, where he took part In a military
tournament last week.
(For Raeiny Results Sa Prj 2.)
(Entries on Page 2.)
RICH
MAN
SHO
COLONEL AT WIRE
MOST OF THE NIGHT;
LINE UNDER
GUARD
He I:. "Neither for Nor Against
Any Candidate," His Only
Statement To-Dav.
OYSTER HAY, L. I., Juno 7. Al
though Col. Roosevelt nnd one of his
sccrotnrles, Walter Ilnycs, remained
in a good part ot last night at this
end of tho private telephone wire be
tween Sagamore Hill and the Pro
gressive Party headquarters In Chi
cago, the Colonel said this morning
there was no statement he cared to
make, except to repeat that he was
"neither for nur against any candi
date." While the nature of the telephone
conversations Is not allowed to tran
spire, Col.' Rooeevelt'o follower , here
assert that reports from blSMaStn-
nuts in Chicago are favorable to the
Colonol's candidacy. Only the most
trusted of the Colonel's counsellors
are permitted to talk over the wire,
which ls guarded by employees of the
telephone company all along the line
to prevent any possibility of a leak.
WAITE APPEALS AND GETS
STAY OF EXECUTION
Counsel Had to Work Hard to
Obtain Murderer's Consent to
Contest Verdict.
Waller R. Deuel, counsel foi Or.
Arthur Warren Wulte. awaiting exe
cution In tho death house at Sing
Sing Prison for tho murder of hls
fathcr-ln-lnw, served notice of nppeal
to-dny on District Attorney Swann.
The service of the appeal notice will
net as a stay of execution for Walto,
who hml been sentenced by lii'ttce
Suearn to die during the weeU of
July m
Deuel tailed Walto In the Death
House jestcrday and found his client
utterly opposed to an appeal of his
case. After considerable argument !
Deuel finally pe rounded Walte to sign j
the papers necessary for a unvcy oft
his trial by the Court of Appeals. I
Wulte told Deuel ho conildeied nn ap
peal absolutely fruitless. Dlitilct At
torney Swuuii Hald he would at once
prepare hlH side of the argument und
would be ready for the appeal lWore
the Court adjourns for the hummer.
FLAG INSULTER SANE.
Mm, loirffler Mint Stnnil
llrri'riiflii ntlonal I
I'riHt for
DUagreeiiig wiili tho opinion or www
County llojpitiil phvulcliti. nho had
drclairt Mi. Catherine Loeffler.
elursed ith deneciatlng the mei U an I
Has, to be insane. County Judge IlyUn'
of Uiooklyn to-d,iy decided thv is ianc
and remanded her for trlsl.
On St. Patrick's Day the neltinbor' of
Mr.. Loeffler. who hsr at X, 110 Ja-,
malca Avenue, E.iat New Voik, wet
amazed to discover an American flue
suspended Uide don-n from a window
In the Locffler home. IAirlhrrniore, the
flag wan amply decorated with ra?i.
Wnen the woman wan brought to trial ,
In Special Sessions a question aroi si
to her sntty and she wss sent to the '
oojervatlon ward at Kings County Hoj
pltal. The phiclanj dechted lift in
Wie. At pieviu.is liesrlnas .Irc .nHt-
hnd ileelatfd be hung th flag out to
let mn employed b a water cumpsru
near hti home know that nhe was i
i;nod woman nnd that they should not
hi tempt to flirt with bar .Mrs l.of
flu l foity-flve yearn old
Titr, nom.n tkavki. iu kf.ai',
Jl: PullUtr tWiiiUl) llaUdlu.
53 tJ I'u Has. J. T Oil
Iir'ft'. "tMtrttloiu. ttUltuB. Ate. tn nl n.
re ilt C'-u.tin On'tui wl .vima Amrtin
.im'ii '-. II. rati- tnd rr-l jwt ,w.m
erlwi lot 4j.. TtJtchou iiMtmio two. Airt,
PERKINS BUSY FOR HARMONY;
'PHONE ORDER FROM COLONEL
THE CONVENTION OPENED WITH PRAYER!
-
'
iVvC sVs(b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1bV
BULL MOOSE IN
OF CHEERS FOR
Demonstration So Long and Pronounced That
Perkins Fears Progressive Convention May
Get Away From His Control.
Uy Samuel M. Williams.
Spscial Staff Correspondent of The Evening World.
PROGRESSIVE CONVENTION HALL, CHICAGO, June 7. I'or ninety,
five minutes to-day the delegates and spectators at the ProRiesslvo Na
tional Convention cheered for Theodora Roosevelt The demonstration waa
started at tho first mention of Roosevelt's name in the Hpeech of Temporary
Chairman Raymond Robblns. even though not half the audience i-aughi iho
chairman's weak voiced worde
A r)ici.r Uf.it. rtml thero Hi llrsl. then "
d0egntlon after delecatlo,, n Its feet.
. ,,.,,.. ,,, ,,,,-. n,.
hM '"f"01' PreadlnB. corgo I at .
I'l"-" font of the platform waving
a penny two. Inch Mag; roars and
roars of c iieers coming 111 suecendlng
waves, dying do n now and thn
Hn( rev,v,n n frMh outbur!),
nrtncial tricks of ronvn-
,
tlon" wwn ,,rouh, 'J,.1!, "ti,n,l(la,e
renewed enthusiasm I he bannets
of State delegations were carried to
'-bo platforms and crowds of excited
men climbed over chairs and tables,
swamping the o til trial under a tidal
wave of fanaticism.
PERKINS, AT THE CHAIRMAN'S' - -
DESK, LEADS DEMONSTRATION, j r, mg of bantieis and r.nslni; i.f
Terkliis climbed on the hnlrimin'.s j American (l.ign. IiIl- and Hn. ,
desV to lead the ilenioiistrali'iii The S"ni..bod stnr'-.l lngiu "Three
banner bearers marched 'ip and down i f' ,M'r', rul "'" U I"1"
the aisles nnd thon back ft the plat-!'1'1'" ,J'1 'atiuhi up the nw l-'n
four. Then the began h singing' '""les cheir nml ,,ukh f, r th I
Mar..hing Through Georgia." then "" supplanted me shout f..r Te-bh
"Glory Hallelujah" Gra lually the
nheem end song snd riazy whoops
molded the msnlvcs Into h single shout.
'We want T'ddJ "' rtpe.fed over
I iter li.'i in t li t n tn if uns'iit
the uuu nf levt, wavttu ut arms,
A FRENZY
ROOSEVELT
HOOSIIVFA.T fa voiuri:
is Tin; UKTTISC.
('(Hi AGO, .Ic.nH " Jim O Le.tr.
i hlcagii's noted betting niinmls
I'initr, is stions for Roosevelt.
"It looks like T li , nil the way,"
ne suys He quotes tiven money
that - Ruo'welt will set the Re
puhiii an nomination
Supreme Cotnt lintice Hughes
if vei ond Clion i. ,tt n to fc, IClthtl
Root 5 to I, Senttor llurton of
Ohio to 1, Senators Cummins of
Iowa nnd Week of Massachusetts
T to 1.
PERKINS TRIES TO STOP THE
GREAT DEMONSTRATION.
I'm fifiu.t it vi a j dinge: i.iis
'.i n I'. ' I. n- n ci num.. A ' tli.
i t'ou ii ai on Stinil I'ssc.J
All-Night Peace Conferences .at
Chicago Among Leaders of the
Factions Give Some Hope of Agree
ment on Candidate and Platform.
ROOSEVELT HEARS CHEERS
AT HOME IN OYSTER BAY
By Martin Green.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Evening World.)
CHICAGO, June 7. With Justice Huglies in the lead for the He
publican nomination for President, but with "Straight Goods" and Pro
gressive leaders making strenuous efforts to bring about harmony; the
Z 'two National Conventions held their preliminary sessions to-day -one
;;jin the Coliseum and the other in Hie Auditorium. At the Coliseum the
i gloom was so thick that the keynote speech of Senator Harding of Oliio.
ft; the Temporary Chaiman, aroused cheers that lasted only 30 seconds,
;; i At the Auditorium the Bull iMoosers started a demonstration for Roose
f; I velt at the first mention of his name by Raymond Robbins, the Tern
Hporary Chairman, whidi hisled 95 minutes. It was so persistent that
? Perkins txrgan to tear the plans for postponing a nomination would be
I! sinaslicd and that the Colonel would be put through at once. He sought
'., , lo check the demonstration and Robbins was urged not to mention
Roosevelt's name again.
There had been conferences during almost the entire night among
the leaders who sought to bring harmony to the two factions. Roose
velt was frequently consulted by phone both last night and this morn
ing. After one of these phone talks Perkins said:
"I hiii terj hcII sutlsllcd nlth tint situation as It sUuds. I be-
lieu- thai a line atmosphere exists and that a proper spirit has been
created fnr best results In both contentions." .
l'crklna declined to Bay what ho had (IIhcusswI with Col. Hooaevelt.
Weutorn Statu I'rogroaslves. headed by the Colorado delegation, hare
(lied with Georgo W. I'erklns a bill of specifications which they declare 1
tho acid text to which any candidate, that thoy will agree to support must
respond to.
No candidate will hit acceptable to the Western Statu Progressives, the
statement declared, unless that candidate makes a complete and definite
statement us to his policies In relation to domestic and foreign affairs.
"Theie Is it spirit among' the Progressives of personal love for tha
Colonel," said Johnson. "I cannot speak for the entire party, but I hellers
that tf Col. Roosevelt were to Indorse a candidate tho Progressives would
accept him."
During the morning In Perkins's room the leaders wrote a elate of the
Progressive comptonilso committee J. W. I'erklns, Chairman; Victor
Murdock of Kansas, Walter Ilrown of Ohio. Hiram Johnson of California,
ami Horace Wilkinson of Now York.
"Now the olive branch Is out. Take It or reject It, Old Guard. This
Is the last chance," wiib tho word sent to the Ropubllcan Convention.
The Progressives feel that tho first pcaco move ought to come from
the Itopiibllcaiis. but Mr PcrklnH thought It possible that the Progre-aslvea
could take tho Initiative In efforts for peace. Roosevelt wan kept In clow
touch with developments. -
Frank Hitchcock, the chief Hughes boomer, said after receiving reports
from caucuses held yesterday and last night that tho Hughes forces would
see thut the platform contains a vigorous declaration for national defense
coupled with a strict and Impartial tiuutrallty so far as conflicts with
other nations are concerned.
Hughes Is stronger than he was yesterday, despite the fact U.at a
Hughed meeting held In the Sherman Hotel was not a political conflagration.
The opening session of tho Republican Convention was a stale, flat pro
ceeding. Kven the grand old flag as a palvanUor and Senator Warren G.
Harding of Ohio, temporary chairman, after a long keynote speech, arouaed
applause that lasted half a minute The only good laugh In the Republican
Convention oeetirrod when tho chairman of the Hawaiian delegation aroe
and announced his name l' sounded like a flat wheel going over a rallro.id
crossing.
The Convention adjourned at 1 :I0 Chicago time, after a session of au
hour and tlfty nine minutes
Gloom the Chief Feature
Of Republican Convention
(Special fiom j Staff Correjpondent for half an bour after the temporary
0f The Evening World.) 'Chairman, Senator Warren G. Hard-
ItMPl Hl.lt" i "ON K.NTION . . , ....,
urn t " - i ln(5 hitc.in to .speak practically dared
HALL. ''lll'"Ati ni.ii' V 'Ol't
and .iJM'i 'I" '.' t".'':
,i i'..
i ,, I, li.iin Mm., n.ii t-ont. n i i, .in
1.1.4 in i. by t.'li.iaum heru lo.daj and
lilm to make It cheer or laurh ot dsp
Its h.iti Is
s.n.f.ir II trdmg Ren. i his task
chocrfully and earnestly and aiter a
v"
