iW "' iw,Mj.i.jWWppWP(M mm jjyum. i. ' j fHUJHipp
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 229
FINANCIAL EDITION
fcimraut
c
feftner
NIGH
EXTRAS
wtxra
B ...- -
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 101G.
ConnianT, 1010, st 1111 rcsuo Lxdoii CouriNt.
PBIOIC ONE OE
IB
j
REPUBLICANS MAY NOMINATE
HUGHES4ND DEFY ROOSEVELT;
SITUATION UP TO COLONEL
If Threat That He Will Not Support
Jurist Express.es Actual Feeling,
Leaders, It Is Believed, Will , .
Fight Regardless of Result
Eeal Old-Time, Rock-Ribbed Convention Cheers Follow
Senator Harding's Demand in Keynote Speech
for American "Navy That Fears None ;
in the World" '
AFTER THE FAMOUS FLAG TALK
i
I'asia
COLISEUM,- CHICAGO, Juno 7. Only Theodore Koosovelt enn prevent
the placing in the field of a Republican national ticket nnd a Progressive one for
the coming campaign.
If the- nllcgcd threat sent to the Republican leaders today that in no cir
cumstances would he support Justice Hughes if the latter is tho Republican
nominee, expresses the actual feelings of tho Colonel, then the Republicans will
nominate the Justice nnd demand that he sacrifice himself to hiB party, and will
make tho fight regardless of consequences.
When the conventions of the Progressive and Republican parties met hero
today this was tho attitude of the men who hold the reins.
The weather, raw and wet, has seemed to cast its spell of dampness over
the" assembled hosts.
The- managers of the Progressive party have accepted the fact, that thoy
cannot put over Colonel Roosevelt. '
The Republican Old Guard, who have plenty of delegates to keep the Colonel
from carrying off the nomination, but far, far from enough to select any one
of their choice, lack harmony. So do tho men who finance tho Progressive party.
BORAH EXPECTS COLONEL TO BACK HUGHES.
Close friends of Borah said ho expected the eventual support of Roosevelt
for Justice Hughes. ;
It may be two or three days before the program can bo arranged. Mean
while the leaders of both sides will have the conventions "mark time."
Reports that Justico Hughes had sent a telegram to Frank Hitchcock nnd
'another to Senator Borah announcing that unless he was tho choice of both
the Republican and Progressive conventions ho would not accept the nomination
were circulated in tho hotel corridors as tho delegates started out through the
rain for the halls. There was no foundation for theso reports.
"SHOULD NOT BE TOO PROUD TO FIGHT."
It wasn't until Temporary Chairman Harding had gotten well along in his
keynote speech that the air really warmed up. The Ohioan drew the first old
fashioned hall-rocking spontaneous applause when he pleaded for a navy "that
, fears nono,,in tho world." Applause that lasted, through 'a minute of frenzied
cheers greeted his declaration that the United States should "not bo torfproud
"to fight."
The Republicans convened without any sign of any sort of agreement on
tho candidate .whom thoy will select. It was still Hughes 'and Rodsovelt and
v B.urton' and Fairbanks, ,and all the rest, with nobody knowing exactly what would
happen.'
EYES ON BULL MOOSE CONVENTION.
There was no doubt that the convention was mightily interested in what
Was happening and about to happen at the Auditorium, where those who broke'
the bonds four years ago were holding conference.
That there would be an attempt for a "get together" meeting of committees
,of both conventions was certain. .At least one resolution was to be introduced
suggesting a combination of interests. This was tho one fathered by the New
Jersey delegation asking that a committee be appointed to advise tho Pro
gressives as to tho Republicans' plan for a platform. This is tho scheme 'ad
vanced by Edward C. Brennan, of Jersey City.
!, - -: w.. Z ZZZZZZ
."-". -ii. t ' wUaUMbikifSJK . .K
'rfaiHn'bap!i"'sCir:'f
3sssmzzszzz:'Em
QUICK NEWS
MOOSE. CONVENTION OPENED BY MURDOCH AT 12:27
AUDITORIUM, Chicago. June 7. The Progressive National
Convention was called to order at 12:27 p. m. (1:27 Philadelphia
time) by Chairman Victor Muvdock, of Kansas. Bishop William
Fmaler McDowell delivered the invocation, after which the conven
tion anng "America." Chairman Murdoch expressed the hope that
the crowd would be on its good behavior. He then made a brief
address, introducing Raymond Koblns as temporary chairman Be
fore Robins was permitted to begin his keynote speech, however,
Secretary Davis read tile call for the convention. A Roosevelt
demonstration began immediately nftcr Robins began his speech
&
P
HARDING'S BOLls
KEYNOTE URGES
"AMERICANISM"
Temporary Chairman Points
Way to Vindication of
National Honor
REPUBLICAN RESTORATION
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION ADJOURNS FOR DAY
CHICAGO, jjune 7. The Republican National Convention, at
1:20 (2:26 Philadelphia tome) adjourned until 11:00 o'clock to
morrow. BELMONT PARK RACES
First race, maidens, two-year-olds, selling, purse $500, 5 fur
longs straight Running Shot, 112, Keogh, 0 to 2, 8 to 5, 4 to 5,
won,; Mira, 115, McDcrmott, 0 to 1, 5 to 2, 6 to 5, second; .Old Drury,
112, Davis, 0 to 2, 8 to 0, 4 to 5, thirjtl. Time 1:02. Barry Ben
let, Moonlighter and Christabel also ran.
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
Hrst race, purse S000, 2-ycar-oId maidens, foaled hi Canada, 4 1-2
furlongs Captnln B, 112, Warrington, $14, $5, $4.30, win; Brittania,
112, Ambrose, $2.00, $2.60, second; Isabclle H. Metcalfe, $300, thiid.
Time :BB. Dandy, Tay, Recorder, J. W. Huiilcy and Nellie C nl&o
ran.
fit
Si-iA-v.:- .v
m&;: vv -
Photo by ,lluck,ftrom,VJndQrwpod; & Underwood.
This is the latest picturo of Justico and Mrfl. Hughes, taken at the
Cathedral School for Girls at Washington, wherein Monday Mr. Hughes
mnde his first public utterance since his boom for the presidential nom
ination became prominent. His speech, since declared 'to have been
without political significance, contained the Justice's views regarding
respect for the American flng.
LEADERS NOT PREPARED
T6 PREDICT 'FIGHT OR FROLIC
AS CONVENTION OPENS
r
li
CHICAGO COLISEUM, t Juno 7. The
1916 Republican convention today la an
actuality, Itfj routine of organization was
carried out with a precision 'in no way dis
turbed by the fact that hot even the leaders
were prepared to forecast whether It was
to end In a "fight or a frolic." It was a
Republican convention, the leaders said,
and under no circumstances would control
of It be surrendered to any other party.
"Peace with regularity or war even though
It means defeat" was. the war slogan of the
"Old Guard." And they had "counted noses"
and had the votes to keep control, even
though they could not unite them on any
single candidate.
The convention was called to order at
11:27 by Chairman Charles D. Hllles, of the
Republican National Committee. At that
hour nearly every delegate was In his seat,
while the galleries were filled to suffocation.
The first slogan of the convention came
from the lips of National Chairman Charles
D. Hllles, who, after the convention had
become an orderly gathering, made the fol
lowing announcement;
Paraphrasing a remark of the late
President MeKinley, "this Is a year
when politics Is patriotism and pai
trlotlsm is politics." Therefore, the
audience will arise and sing two verses
of, "America."
TUB INVOCATION.
Following the singing. Charlman Hllles
introduced the Rev. John Timothy Stone,
of Chicago, who offered the opening
prayer as follows:
Most Holy and Eternal God, we bow
before Thee with reverent hearts and
thOUKhtful minds. Thnll art mm Cln.i .
Thou art the God of all nations; Thou
art the God of our nation. Thou hast
been the Ood of our fathers. Thou hast
been our God In times of peace, amid
the perplexities of war. Thou hast
liven to us freedom, liberty, purpose
and prosperity.
Although the Immediate Interests
which now control our gathering to
gether have reference to our owrt na.
ttonal issues, we would not forget the
warring, suffering nations of the earth.
Pray Thee to bring them speedily.
If It be Thy holy will, to terms of peace
and conditions of adjustments.
We bow before Thee and pausing
auletly ask Thy blessing before enter,
ing upon the deliberation of this con.
yentlon. As Thou dost order the af
fairs of men, so frame the doings of
"la sreat body, gave from nil hasty
or ill-spoken words. Control Judg,
ments. purposes, plans and platforms.
W.l0.m and otrongth. May the men
or this choice be our choice, and. may
motive, method and result centre in
?Jil mtf Jw Dt tfht and ' Thy
aing victories of truth and righteous,-
Ug$f, control iht 4ay,
SUFFRAGISTS PLAN
TO CARRY THEIR PLEA
TO CONVENTION FLOOR
BRITISH EMPIRE
MOURNS DEATH OF
LORD KITCHENER
Messages of Condolence
Pouring in From All
Quarters of Globe
TRAGEDY LAID TO SPIES
GERMAN TROOPS
BEATEN BACK AT
VEKDlfS GATE
, V
French Crush "Violent As
sault Against Fort Vaux
Positions
BANK OFFICIAL ACCUSED OF STEALING $41,000
BOSTON, June 7. Harry A. Jones, clerk and assistant cashier of tho Stone
ham National Bank, was arrested today on a charge of embezzllnf: $41,000 In cash
and securities from the bank. Tho capital stock of tho Stoneham National Bank
Is $50,000. Jones Is married and has three children.
MORE THAN 160 KILLED BY SOUTHERN CYCLONES
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Juno 7. More than ICO persons were killed by n aeries of
cyclones which swept sections pt Tennessee, Mississippi, southwestern Missouri;'
Arkansas nnd western Kentucky Monday night, reports today showed. Trio, death
lists Include 30 persons reported misslnjr when the steamboat Eleanor was capsized
In tho Mississippi River 17 miles north of Memphis. She was tied to the 'river bank
when the tornado hit her, broke the wire cables nnd sent her out Into the stream.
Only Solution of Problems Ro
suiting From Democratic
Incompetency c
Mrs. George B. Orlady Outlines
Program on Which They Seek
to Win Recognition at
Chicago
ARE MORE THAN HOPEFUL
PtattMrt m SMf lw, iMmsut Oat
By MRS. GEORGE B. ORLADY
CHICAGO, June 7. We, the suffragists
of Pennsylvania and of the United States,
will bear our appeal for a woman suffrage
plank In the Republican national platform
today to the Coliseum.
Conferring at the Princess Theatre are
suffragists from every .State in the Union
and the national executive board members.
They voted unanimously to have their great
parade with the woman's liberty bell. Our
Pennsylvania delegation. Including the
women from Philadelphia under the leader
ship of Mrs. George A. Dunning, were, a
unit in their desire to march with the
woman's liberty bell, now mounted on an
automobile truck decorated with the na
tional and suffrage colors.
We are still more than hopeful, almost
confident, that he Republican convention
will indorse our suffrage cause by a' plank
In Its platform.
Of -immediate interest is the plan. an.
nounced through our delegation, that Penn
sylvania suffragists will offer to the na.
tional body a national suffrage flag. This
has been designed by Mrs. L. Oscar Kleber.
of Pittsburgh, and It will be the work of
the best needlewomen In the suffrage ranks
to Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and the coun
ties of Pennsylvania,
It will be used first upon the admission
.of the 13th State to full suffrage. If the
final returns from Iowa show victory t,he
banner will be completed immediately -upon
the return of the I'ennsylvonlans.
The flag wlt have 13 alternate white and
yellow stripes, a starto be added for each
auffraira State in a red field.
Women from other States are enthusiastic
over the Pennsylvania plan and announce
they will make similar flags for their States.
Falls From Step; Badly Injured
Clara, Titus, 78 years old, of 20th and
Ilrandywine streets, suffered a severe lacer
ation of the scalp last night, when she fell
from the steps leading ta the' back yard
of her home and her head struck the brick
pavement.
Fealy Body Still Hissing '
The search for the body of T. & Fealy,
118 North Broad street, who was drowned
on a yachting ruls In the. Delaware silver
last Sunday, has been fruitless, according
to -word jecelved here- Th drowning
occurea off yinnli ralot Jetty when Mr.
jr.ly fell Into h river, the daylts of a
aioall boat In which ha was littins having
LONDON, June 7. The body of
Colonel O. A. Fitzgerald, military sec
retary" to Lord Kitchener, who was
drowned with Lord Kitchener, has been
recovered, according to a dispatch to
the Express.
LONDON, June 7. Premier Asquith
will act as Secretary of State for War
until a successor to Lord Kitchener is
appointed, it was officially announced
today.
LONDON, June 7. The entire British
Empire Is in mourning today for Lord
Kitchener, late Secretary of State for "War,
who, with his staff, was drowned off the
Scottish coast when thecrulsor Hampshire
was destroyed by a mine or torpedoed on
Monday night.
From the four quarters of the globe
messages of condolence are pouring Into
London.
It Is likely that a great memorial service
will be held In St, Paul's or Westminster
Abbey, to be' nttended by King George and
representatives of the Llllea governments.
There was a cabinet meeting this morning
to discuss the situation brought about by
the sudden death of the War Secretary,
upon whose shoulders was borne the burden
of conducting tl?e military establishment of
the empire.
Flags are nt half mast everywhere..
Silent., thrones filled the streets discussing
the tragedy.
Despite the- Secrecy attending the visit
of Lord. Kitchener to Ttussia, the belief is
growing that the German Admiralty was
nptluea or me proposea inp oy a spy ana
that the Hampshire was blown up through
some agency of G.ermany, perhaps a sub
marine. A marked stimulus to recruiting today
the last day under the voluntary group
system and a general demand" for tho
Internment of all enemy aliens Jn Great
Britain, regardless of age. sex or naturali
zation, are the Immediate resultants of the
death of Kitchener,
The question of Lord Kitchener's suc
cessor is one "of the chief topics. The
three names most conspicuously mentioned
are those of Sir William Robertson, Chief
of Staff of the British army, who was
designated as Acting War Secretary in
the absence of Lord Kitchener; David
Lloyd-Oeorge, the minuter of munitions,
and Lord Derby, who was put in charge
of the recruiting when that burden was
taken away from the War Office.
Despite the power and prestige of Kitch
ener his death will have nq effect upon
the military situation of England, It Is
declared in official .circles. The Empire
will continue to battle as vigorously as
ever against, the enemy, nut it Is evident
from the attitude of the press and the
public that a feeling ojf deep 4epressipn has
followed.
The newspapers all eulogize Kitchener,
BIG ACTIVITY IN VOSGES
ContloiyJ lf Vm Your. Columa Three
Shipyard Strikers. Sent to Prison
Two arresU were raa4e' in connection
with th strike of riveters and bolters at
the New York Shipbuilding Company, and
in both cases sentences were Imposed today
by Recorder Stackhouse In Camden. Michael
Koweciak, pf 8th and Cheiten streets, was
sentenced to, SO days, and, Jilcheias Joseph,
at the aae address, ws entttc4 to three
months. Tha men wsra accusfd of lutein
frence with and atsmult pn two workmen
at the, plant of tfce v'omyany.
PARIS, June 7.
After a brief lull in Infantry fighting east
of the Meuse River the Germans have
again launched a powerful assault against
the French position at Fort Vaux, the
"gateway" to Verdun on the northeast.
Despite the fury of the attack It was
repulsed by the French forces under Mnjor
Raynol, the French War Office announced
.today.
The attack, which was made last night,
was preceded by a bombardment by Ger
man guns which Is described In the com
munique as extremely violent.
All lay yesterday and last night the big
Buna of the Germans west of the Meuse
were In action raining shells of all calibre
against the French positions nt Hilt 301
and In Cauretto Woods.
In -the Vosges the Germans are again
very active In the sector of Hartmanns
wellerkopf. All of the French positions In that region
were subjected to a furious cannonade last
night. This was taken as a prelude to In
fantry assiilts.
The text of the official communique fol
lows ;
West of Solssons two German patrols
which attempted to cross the Alsne
were dispersed near Fontenoy. Our
artillery lire destroyed several observa
tion posts of the enemy near Nouvrop,
In the Argonne at La FIlle'Mort
we blew up three mines with success".
On the left bank of the Meuse there
was heavy artillery Are In-ihe (sector
of Hill 304 and In Caurettes Woods,
On the right fcank a powerful Ger
man attack delivered about 8 o'clock
last night against Fort Vaux was ri;-
pulsed by our machine guns. The
enemy fled n disorder, leaving many
bodies upon the ground.
The artillery fire was very energetto
- on. both- sides. . . .
In the Vosges the Germans violently
bombarded our first line at Hartmanns-wellerkopf.
FRENCH DESTROYER SINKS IN COLLISION
PARIS.Juno 7. Tho French torped'oboat destroyer Fnntnssin has been sunk in
collision with another ship. Tho crew was saved. (The Fantnssln was btfllt In 1900
and carried 62 men. She was 213 feet long nnd displaced 416 tons.)
45,000 SOCIALISTS DECLARE STRIKE IN NORWAY
CHRISTIANIA, June 7. As n, protest against tho passage of the compulsory
arbitration bill, the Socialists have declared a general strike. Including Govern
ment and municipal employes, 4U.00O men quit work last night, while 42,000 others
gave two weeks' notice of their intention to strike.
FORMS THREE AVIATION SCHOLARSHIPS
George C. Thomas, Jr of this city, has established threo free scholarships Jn
tho Philadelphia School of Aviation at Esslngton. Mr. Thomas Is having a ma
chine built at Marblohead, Mass., und nfter becoming proficient as a pilot will
act as tutor for students freo- Of charge.
SECRET HEARING JUNE 16 ON FRENCH WAR POLICY
PARIS, June 7. -A secret meeting of tho Chamber of Deputies will be held on
June 16. Premier Briand llxed the date yesterday In nn announcement In which
ho Insisted that the discussion shall not be confined to the opening stares of the
Verdun battle, but that it embrace the whole policy of the Government since tho
beginning of tho war.
SHUKRI PASHA, DEFENDER OF ADRIANOPLE, DIES
CONSTANTINOPLE, Juno 7. Shukri Pasha, who, ns commander at Adrla
nople, held that fortress against the Bulgarians from the fall of 1912 to March,
1913, when he surrendered It to General Ivanoff, Is dead.
REPORT OF OKUMA'S ASSASSINATION UNFOUNDED
TOKIO. June 7. A report circulated In the United StPtes yesterday that
Count Shigenobu Okuma, the Japanese Prime Minister, had been assassinated was
without foundation. The secretary of' Count Okuma announced the Premier was
hale and hearty, and that he was then In conference with the Emperor.
GIMIIAHE-WHITE'S WIFE
GETS DIVORCE DECREE
Plaintiff Alleges Actresses Were Too
Attentive to Aviator
LONDON. June 7. A decree nisi of di
vorce today was granted to Mrs. Claude
Crahame-White, wfe of the famous British,
aviator. '
Mrs. Qrahame-Whlte before her marriage
ta the. aviator In June, 1912 was Miss
Dorothy Taylor, of New York.
The, estrangement between the couple
resulted from attentions showered upon
GrahameVWhlte by women, particularly ac
tresses his wife alleged.
Hughes Men Demand 2tol; t
Colonel Backed at Even
NEW YORK, June 7,r-Po!itical
betting lagged in Wall street today.
Backers of Hughes and Roosevelt
are having a hard time agreeing on
terms. Hughe3 men are asking 2
to 1 .and the Roosevelt backers are
wiljing to give even money. In
Brooklyn betting on Roosevelt has
settled down t even money aiter
fluctuating odds in favor of the
CMnnel.
57,000 ACRES OF WOODLAND SWEPT BY 12 FIRES
HARUISBURG. June 7,-r-In the 12 largest forest flies reported to the Stats
Forestry Department this spring, 57,000 acres of woodland were burned over.
The reports show that forest fires were far less numerous and not nearly as
disastrous ns In the spring of 1913. The rains and the more effective methods
of combating fires by the State flro wardens are given as reasons. The largest
single Are burned more than 11,000 acres In Blair County, and was of incendiary
origin. Potter County comes secjnd, with a single fire of 10,400 acres, also
Incendiary, and Luzerne, with one fire of 10,000 acres and another of 1200, Care
lessness Is blamed for many of the fires, causes given Including brush-burning
on dry or windy days, defective spark arresters on locomotives, abandoned camp
tires and cigarette stubs.
RUSSIAN FORCES ONLY 87 MILES FROM BAGDAD
PETROGRAD, June 7. Russian forces are only S7 miles from Bagdad, an
official bulletin on the Turkish campaign last night announced. "In the Caucasus
region toward Balburt and Erzinjian," says the report, "the Turks, supported by
artillery, took the offensive on many sectors. All their attacks were repulsed."
(Balburt Is about. 60 miles northwest of Erzerum. Erzinjian Is about 105 miles west
of Erzerum, on the road, to Constantinople.)
CARSON TELLS ULSTER'S SETTLEMENT TERMS
BELFAST, June 7. Sir Edward Carson, Unionist leader, addressed 500 repre
sentative Ulstermen here yesterday on the proposed terms of the Irish settlement.
Members pf the press were not admitted to the meeting.
'U, S. BUYS DOZEN JERSEY-BUILT AEROPLANES
PLA1NFIELD. N.fJ., June 7- Beginning June 31, the Standard Aeroplane
Company, of this city, will deliver a military tractor each week to General Funstan's
army on the Mexican border until a f ull ,aero squadron of 12 fighting machines
ha$ been sent- The machines are ta be of Day design and are the same as the
British Government Is using to defend London agaJnst Zeppelin attacks. The aero
plane ordered Is a! the type In which De Lloyd Thompson recently made his spec
tacular flights over New York and Washington, dropping bombs on the cities to
show, their defenselessness in time of war. At that time the factory wu owned'
rjy Jofin B. Stoane. son-in-law of Thomas A. Edison, but Mr.. Bloane recently oja.
tla stock to a eompaoj' nt New York capitalists organised, through Mitsui ft j
Japanese. e importers, .
CHICAGO, Juno 7. The speech of Sen
ator Harding, temporary chairman of the
Republican National' Convention, was as
follows :
Oenftemcn o the Convention:
It Is good to greet this representative
body of that American Republicanism on
which Is centred tho high hopes of tho. re
public. I can believe nay, I know that
n vast majority of the pcoplo of our United
States Is expecting the party sponsors here
assembled ,to write nnew the sacred coven
ant of Republicanism, and reconsecrate the
party to the nation's service and tho peo
ple's advancement. That ,samo majority
expects you to select a standard-bearer
who shall1 not only typify our expression
of faith, but shall so enlist the confidence
and trust of our American citizenship that
the work of this convention will be con
firmed overwhelmingly at the ballot box
next November.
Tho country, wearied afresh by a dfs".
appointing and distressing Democratic ad
ministration, la calling for Republican re
lief nnd there Is every inspiration, every
encouragement, every confidence that the
light of Republican conscience, set aflame
In this convention, will Ulumlno the "way
to tho country's restoration.
LET US FORGET 1912.
We did not do very well In making for
harmony tho .last time we met Tho coun
try has' regretted, let us forget and" make
emends to our country. Wo did not divide
over -fundamental principles, we did not
disagree over a national policy. We split
over methods of. party proceedure and pre
ferred personalities. Let u forget the clif.
Terence, nnd find new Inspiration niul new
compensation In a united endeavor, to re
toret!o country.
The essential principles of Republicanism
'araT'nrichnngoS'Ttnd unchanging; the lofty
Intent, thjs" IndeitrUctlblo soul, and the Un
dying spirit gf Republicanism .are as
dominant today as In the destined begin
ning 60 years ago, or at any time during
the Intervening years and they are em
phasized 'today 'by the'jjf-oof recorded to
Republican credit In . the .matchless chap
ters of American progress.
PRINCIPLES ARE ABIDING,
No political parly ever has bulded or
ever can build permanently 'except, In con
scientious devotion to abiding principles.
Time never alters a fundamental truth.
Conditions do change, popular Interest Is
self-asserting, nnd "paramountlng" has Its
perils, as the Democratic party will bear
witness, but the essentials of constructive
government and attending1 progress afe
abiding and unchanging. For example, wo
ought to be as genuinely American today as
when the founding fatnera flung their Im- ,
mortal defiance In .the face of old-world
oppressions and dedicated a ney republio
to liberty and justice We ought to be as
prepared for defense as Washington urged
amid the anxieties of our national begin
ning, and Grant confirmed amlVd the calm
reflections of union restored,
PARTV SOLIDARITY,
Itl3 not my understanding, that the re
marks of the temporary chairman are to be
taken as an expression of the party faith.
Such expression must come from this con
vention, made up of delegates who believe
In popular, representative government
through the agency of political parties. You
come directly from the people, commissioned
to speak tlielr hopes and aspirations, to
utter their patriotic desires and pledge their
abiding faith. . Out, of the convictions and
Judgment and wisdom as expressed by the
majority will come the sacred and sincere
covenant of the Republican party.
We are a voluntary organization and
must find our strength in the enlistment of
volunteers who find the nearest or best
expresslon of their 'Individual conviction
In our party declaration's, and there can be
no treason In withdrawal If our declarations
fall short In their appeal. But I am old
fashioned enough to believe that In popular
government party suqeesa aVid party capac
ity for service to the nation must He In
making the wll of a righteous .majority the
willing pledge of all.
NO FORSWEARING REQUIRED.
Gentlemen of the convention, the first
and foremost wish In my mind la to say
that which wll contribute to harmony of
effort and add to the assurance of vlcr
lory next November- I wlah, that because:
we believe Republican success to be for
the best Interests of our common coun
try. The allied hosts q the believers in
Republican principles are In a vast ma
Jorlty of this country--when the banners
of harmony are unfurled. We have wit
nessed the comeback of pur party In va
rious States. We have seen, the re-enlist;
ment of those whq believe In Republican
doctrines, and victory has followed and
rejoicing has attended. No apology has
been asked, no forswearing required, Thtf
Is not the time for recrimination, it Is the
day of reconsecratloiu
KriledlcatUr here and now the Mfpabll
cau party to the proire and ilory yf tb
, Continued on fan Beten. Column Oat
T9E WEATHEB
Yesterday we advised all sane men. tq
don Palra Beach uulta nnd ha comfortable.
Today as we sloshed our way slopBlly
through the gray morning drtula v
glimpsed no less than five men whs lad
yielded ta our opinion. They were tuyi,
to wit. as follows: "-,-. t'.tt Hi III tfTp
We muffled ourselves In our rslnc-tat 4s2
hastened workward Ifirowrt uyfrxtttiMg"
street. JF
W know now hoy th weather t fcat,
rmeaAsr
tenieht, ffMmmt rfwwto rw-M
.J
