WFATHBR
nHOiraa-a Itlil Al-ro rrtonAiu v
THVMOHKOII KKFaill BOITH
11 ? r wmt
r?n anajaat *? ra**. i?
tflMi? Qfribunt
CIRCULATION
OvcrlOO,000 Daily
Net Paid, Non-Rcturnablo
Vou I.WVI No. 25,406.
|( ..I'.rlal.i lOia?
Thf Tribune Ataa'a.]
Firat to Laat?the Truth: New a- Editor iala ? Advertiaementa
WEDNKSDAV. JUNE 7. 1916.
aaa
ONE CENT
In *.???? York 4 I4y, RBMOlJ,
Jrr.r, 1 ll % mi-l Molmkrn.
Kitchener, Staff and 400 Others Die
When Cruiser Is Sunk OffScotland
OLD GUARD MUST TAKE
I.R.ORFACE THIRD PARTY
Pro^ressives Will Give G. O. P.
Chance to Aecept Colonel?Lead?
ers End Bluffing.
FAVORITE SONS STRONG
ON CONVENTION EVE
t Hughes Boom Hurt by Yesterday's Speech?
Republieans and Moose Both Denounce
lt as Unsatisfactory.
[From a Staff Correspondent of The Tribune.]
Chicago, June 6.?The Republieans will be given time?
not too much time?after thi convention meets to-morrow- to
climb on the Roosevelt band wagon gracefully, but they must
climb on or there will be a third ticket this fall.
The Hughes boom was greatly weakened as a result of his
girls' school address. and the favorite sons say the justice, as
Wtli as Roosevelt. eannot be nominated.
The Roosevelt men say they are much encouraged by the
"trend of events," although they admit that they will have not
n.ore than 100 votes on the first ballot.
The Republiean delegates, who expected to find the Pro
pre??ives willing to come in and take a back seat, became in
(iignant when they found they would realiy have to pay for
party unity.
The "old guard" men began discussion of whether to put
over Root, or to switch to some dark horne, and the Harding
boom was re\ived.
These were the chief developments here on the cve of tho
meeting of the two conventions?taken together they mean thnt
iden of the two parties are both at sea, that the delegates
nruly, that no agreement of any kind has been reached as
tr, citber party, far less any for the two parties to act together,
and that it is no more possible to predict the outcome thar. it
six months ago.
I'HOI.UKSSIM.S HARD TO RF.STRAIN.
It was a wild day here?a day filled with sound and fury,
? actual results. The Roosevelt workers appeared in large
numberi and stirred up much .sentiment, but no votes. There
? uwever. an apparent inerease of lriendliness toward the
Colonel among the delegates on the whole and more willingness
among the leaders in the conferences to diseuss facts and frtop
blufflng.
The day opened with a denial from
Roosevoit headouarterr, of the state
that there had boen any deu
nita stand taken on any other candidate
than the Colonel. Reports thnt hfl had
1 Hughes, approved Wtaka,
agreed to Root and so forth, flraffl cov
? . a blanket aUtOBMat that when
|y to take a stand on any
eaadidaU he waald do so himself and
iture.
The RoOaM vt'orlt rn0!,t
apiag tho Pragraoaivai
in bounds and only om ttOflaJad on the
tfl hirreement that they would not
oppose th<* nomination of Roosevelt by
-ogressives after time had been
? e Repablicaaa.
"Wfl have r.o aecond ehoice. Go to
it," Mr. Perkins said in eddressinj*
? and later in the day
fiiram Johaaaa, who haa been the lead?
er of thfl "hotheads." agreed to hald off
till Fi ia,
-re Only 75 far Colonel.
' - Roosevelt men believe that all
Ihey aeed to win is delay. and were
graa! , enceuraged to-night, though
aVahfl **. Bg that they would not have
?ver .e.onty-five votes in the Reouh
lican co.vention oti the frst ballot.
They point out the confusion of tho
"cld guard" and insist that as soon as
R came is over and the leaders
faea the teeU they will dead. on the
Colonel.
"They will be begging us to nommate
the Colonel in the I'rogressive conven
Uofl ly Friday," one of them aaid to
Eight, "so that they will have an ex
euse for 'forcing' him on themselves."
The predirament of the "old guard"
?howed no sign of change to-day. The
favorite sons remain in rontrol, and
refuse to be brought in line for any
cne. They have about aixahundred fOtcfl
among them. This is enough to blotk
the nomination of Root or Hughes or
any one else. They can prevent a nom?
ination so long as they hold together,
and thev have been planning to shift,
f.nally, to one of themselves.
Burton Boom Bursts.
A revolt in the Ohio delegation to
right virtuallv drove the rinal spike ln
the cofnn of tllfl Burton boom. The re
aolt was hea.U-d by the Cincinnati dele?
gation, of whom tho most vociferoua
was Julius Fleischmann, the yeaat king.
Fleisrhmann ifl a director of the Na
tional City Bank. of New York. ot
which Frank A. Y'anderlip. who recer.t
Ceallnued on *,*???? 4, celuma 9
TALK OF WOOD
AS COMPROWISE
"Old Guard" Leaders and
T. R.'s Envoy Discuss
General.
! I'.'.-m a Klaff Corr?.*Kirirli>rit nf Tlir Trll.u ? 1
Chicago. June 6. Conference.-; look
ing to the acceptanre of General
I.vonard Wood by ihe Kepublicans as
a compromise candidate were under
way here to-night, accordirip to re
ports in well informed plaCQB. The
conferences were attended by four of
the "old guard" leaders and a mys
terious envoy of Colonel Koosevelt, a
man who recently came from Oyster
) Hay, and had taken no open part ln
| previous negotiations.
These conferences followed one held
.> name leaders with George W.
PurkiBB, which lasrtd almost four
fours. tkifl afternoon. At the earlier
roaeo the "old guardsmeii" IUf*
-(?Vfi.il igsjiibli' compromlaa
cundidatoi and iTiscusMed thoil avail
ability. Mr. l'eikn.s polatiag out the
- of each.
Thc talk of General Wool ns the
r-ar.didate was general here to-day
followtaf the publication of an Oyster
Bay dispatCB in which th.- Colonel
?viiS quoted by a caller as beiiikr ?*?--"
Ing to support Ulm. While it was
taken for granted that the old fri.-nd
ghip between the two men would
rn.-ko it easv for Roosevelt to do this.
there was a belief that the general
would bc so open to attaek, on the
around that he represented extreme
ralliUrian, that hc would not mak*
a .-'. rong race.
IOWA V0TERS DEFEAT
SUFFRAGE AMENDMENT
93 Counties Out of 99 Give 137.
760 For, 143,669 Atfainst.
He* Moines, June 6. Virtually com?
plete unofticlal returni to-n:ght indi
catcd thai the Constitutional amcTid
| ment providing for woman aaffraff aad
been rejeeted by Iowa voters nt Kaa*
dav's primary.
Ninety-three counties out of ninety
nine Ifl the state, at 0 o'clock, had
Kivei! for auffrage 1S7.7?0; aeoinst 148,*
669, a differenca of 5,909 votea.
KAISER THANKS KRUPPS
FOR "VICTORY" AT SEA
Dcclarcs Splendid Outis, Armor
and Powdcr Bcat British.
London, June (V- Kmperor William
has sent I>r. Gustav Krupp von Bohlen
, und Halbach, head of tho Krupp works,
the following telegiam from Wilhelms
havon:
"After receiving orsl reports on the
! North Soh battle I desire to tell you
' how groatly Wfl are indebted for sue
cess to our splendid artillery nnd armor
'? plnte, and especially to tho destructive
power of our ammunition. Thus the
battle day was also a day of bonor for
the Krupps."
RETURNS LOST $27,825;
GETS $1 AND ABUSE
Clerk Finds Certified Chcck
Made Out to Brokers.
Abrahnm Schwartz, twenty-three,
', chief clerk in the office of Morris
Cukor, nn nttorney, at .",", Park Row,
was walking along tho Cedar Street
1 side of the Fquit-uble Building yester?
dav noon, when he saw an oblong piece
of paper and ptopped.
BehaTBTtfl picked it up. It was a cer?
tified cheek for ttlJSU, mado out to
, E. A. Munice & Co.. brokers. at 15
Broad Street, by Mct.raw, Blagden &
i Draper, bankers, of 111 Broadway. The
Meehaakfl and Mctals Nationr.1 Bank
had certified the cheek.
Schwartz came to The Tribune offlce,
and, accompanied by a Tribune ropre
sentutive, went to the offices of E. A.
Manico <fc Co. Bfl gave the cheek to a
clerk, who snnpped it up abruptly.
"Where did you find this?"
Schwartz told him. The clerk picked
up a dollar and threw it at him.
"Ifl that all I got for fl $27,000
! cheek?" ventured Schwartz.
"What did you expect," anapped the
' clerk-"twenty-five dollars?"
Down came a ground glass window
! over thi cashier's wicket and Rchwarti
I was lafl to think it over. When a re
1 pcrter asked the brokers how the cheek
happened to be lost he wai told it was
, none of his business.
,?-?
NARROW ESCAPE COSTS
RECKLESS AUTOIST $10
Fined for Trying to Beat Long
Island Train to Crossing.
As tho result of her appearance in
| police court at Lynbrook yesterday Mrs.
W. Albert Pease, of Kast Henipstead,
I.ong Island, is just a little bit lesi
:thankful that she and her husband es
enpod death t*-*n days ago when their
automobile was BlflBOet run down by a
' Long Island train. For driving up on
? the crossing and bumping into the train
Mrs. Pease 44 as fined $10 by Justice
j Ncu.
With her husband ns a psssenger
Mrs. Poaflfl tried to get across the Mer
\ rick Road croasing ahead of a train.
' The train was in more of a hurry than
? she thought it was, and the pilot of
the engine grazed Mrs. Peaso's ma?
ehine, bangod it against an electric
light pole and dumped Mrs. Pease and
hor husband jn to the ground. Though
they cscuped with bruues, the car was
j wrerked
Thc Long Island has its crossings
I mark.d with waraiBfl tfl rnotorists and
! ha- long been throatening to proceed
against persons who disregard the
1 Btgas.
>
HIS MA AND HER PA
TO HAVE WEDDING, TOO
Old Folks Settle Question Where
Youngsters Will Live.
The Colford-Pnllus wedding in Co
1 rona, LoBg Island, to-day will bo quite
a family afTair. Miss Josephine Pallus
will become the bride of Joseph N. Col
ford, and the bridegroom's mother, Mrs.
Kllen L. Colford, will become the bride
of John A. Pallus, Miss Pallu-'s father.
When the four obtained thoir mar
ringe licenso yesterday they would not
explain the genesi3 of the foui-cor
nered romance. But friends say that
tho pnrcntal marriage contract arose
44|,ifl tha yoaagar eaaale be**an dis
euasiag whether to make their future
home with the bridegroom's mother or
the bride's fath.-r. lt WBI nrgue.l that
if they lived with Mrs. Colford Mr.
Pallus would be left alone; if they
lived with Mr. Pallus Mrs. Colford
WOUld be left alone.
.-mi thfl elder people cut the Gordian
knot. and now nobody's going to have
to live alone.
READING FELICITATES
JUSTICE BRANDEIS
Chief of English Bench Cables
Congratulations.
The installation of Louis D. Brandeis
as associate justice of the Supreme
Court cf the I'nited States brought
yesterday the following cable mesaage
from Baron Reading. Lord Chief Jus?
tice of Kngland, to Herman Hernstein,
editor of "The American Hebrew":
"Membership of the Supreme Court
,.f the I'nited States Ifl one of the
greatest distmctions known to the legal
?orld, and 1 hoartily congratulate the
1.4*44 j.ssuc.*te justice."
RAIDONTEXAN
TOWNSISNEAR,
SAYS FUNSTON
Troops Rushed Tow?
ard Danger Points
on Border.
SINGLE TROOP
GUARDS DISTRICT
General Determined to
Punish Mexicans for
Any Attaek.
San Antonio, Tex., June 6.?General
Funston announced to-day that he had
what appeared to be poiitive informa?
tion that Luii de la Rosa was mareh
inj* from a point south of Laredn ia
the directlon of the border, with the
evident intention of raiding the coun?
try lomewhere west of Rio Grande
City. There are not now in t.iat dis?
trict enough Ameriean troops to pre?
vent de la Rosa and his men, from
crossing.
Ieneral William A. Manr.. command
Ing the Ameriean forces in that dis?
trict, with headquarters at Laredo. has
reported to (ieneral Funston that he is
taking such measures as possible to
strengthen tha patrol toward the aait
and to p-uai J Laredo.
To tha east of Laredo, ln Zapata
County, across the southern boundary
of which De la Rosa Is e.rpected to
move, there is only one troop of Amer?
iean cavalry.
At just what point on the border the
Mexicans intend to strike was not
learned, and it was not announced ju.-?t
how far awuy they were to-day, but
they were said to be eomparatively
near.
If De la Rosa ard his men reach
the Rio Grande befoie Amprican troops
can head them off, enough forco will
be sent against them to drive them
back into Mexico and, lt was Inti
mated. to run them down on Mexican
?oil.
De la Rosa was one of the leadern
of the group that directed the raids
west ot Brownsville a year ago. Since
then he has heen a fugitive in nis own
country, with a price of $1,000 on his
head, oiTered by the State of Texaa.
The information that reaehed (ien?
eral Funston Indicated that I)e la
Rosa would not be more than two or
three days at the moit In'(-Kting t0 the
border. If raiden Rtnke Ameriean
tcrritory in Zapata country little in
jury to the residenti is antieapted be?
eauae, with the exeeption 0f ciiih or
two fanulie all are Mexicans. From
the farmers a large number of horses
and mules eould bc commr.nd.cn.I
However, (ieneral Mann has at Lare.ln
and in its viomty one aquadron of cav?
alry a regiment of infantry and a bat*
Ulion of artillery. It la from this
force that he hart dispatched additional
patrols eamward.
Marathon, Tex., June 6. A message
to-night from Captain McAn.lrews of
ihe 6th Cavalry saying that every
t^ing was quiet around Hoquillai and
Glen Springs put an end to the ru
mor that another raid by Mexican
bandits had occurrcd in this district.
Captaifl McAndrews get out from Ba*
quilla.i this morning to investigate
ihe report, 4vhich created some ex
citement here.
Washington. June 6. The War Do
partment received no report from (ien?
eral Kuruton to-night regarding- the
activities of Luis de la Rosa. but urT.
cials were confident that the border
loir.niander had taken whatever steps
were necesjary to prevent a raid into
Ameriean tcrritory. lie la Rosa's move
havc been closely watched for
wec'ns, and (ieneral Funston undoubt
edly is prepared, ofiirials believe, for
ijuick protection of anv border point
the bandit leader eould reach.
K. OF k: lost at sea.
I'lnto hy Ratn New. fri4lc-.
Eail KafebenOT, Secretary for War of G.-eat Britain, who, with his
entire staff and nli ort board, was drowncl when the cruiser Haiip
Phire waa sunk nff the West Orkncy Islancis on Monday nij-ht.
Fight to Oust Hollweg
Launched in Reichstag
Conservatives, Led by Count von Westarp, Meet Dr. von
Bethmann-Hollweg's Defiance with Open Avowal
of Their Hostility.
Berhn, June o (delayod).- Masks
were droppe.l m the Rcich.-tag to-day,
as Or. von Utthmann-IIolhveg, the Im
perial Chancellor, had rcquested, when
the epokcsman of the V'onscrvativei.
Count Fnediich von Westarp. plainly
avowed the party.i opposition to the
Chancellor's policies. While diselaim
ing responsibility for the particular
anonymous pamphlct which the Chan- ,
cellor had cited, 'ount v.-n Wentarp
declared that this and sunilar out
burBts represented a great popular
movement. whieh the Imperial Chancel
lor had IffBi
Hr. Spuhn, leader of the Ce-ure
party; Herr v.n Payor, PrOgTl
and I>r. Gradnauer, Social:*'., su: ;
the Chancellor in his oaflipaigB riin't
"the pnat.' paMU Bplalaa." Herr
von Paftf declared that the aim of the
movement ev.denlly BTM thc fall of Dr..
\on Hethmann-IIollweg, and that tne
M waa justif.ed that the novo-l
ment had the ?upport and enrour?.ge
ment of various members of the
Reichitag.
The policies of the Imp.-ri-.l Chan?
cellor | have to do with the
attitude of G.many toward thc I'aitaO. I
States and peace.
Pr. Bpahfl mBdc a notab!-* d-e'ira
tion. in 44 hich he said: "Th.' eyplana- |
tions of thc laporlal Caaneolloi and
the Ministcr of Forolffl Atf'airs, Herr
von Jagow, on the Z?PP?Hfl BBd aub?
marine questions h?4 I I a.
Our r.lations with America Bttt tol
be broken on accovint of the subrai
tine i- -
Verdun?the Puzzle
The attack upon Verdun has already lasted longer
than the entire second Napoleonic episode. Yet the real
German purpose, from a military point of view, remains
hidden.
Frank H. Simonds, in his weekly editorial article in
next Sunday's Tribune. discusses the probable explana
tions for its continuation and its possible result in a gen?
eral allied offensive on all fronts. You will want to read
it, ao tell your newsdealer to-day to deliver your Sunday
Tribune?it ia the livest newspaper in New York.
m Z\)t frtmtoa? Crtbunr jl
|B4_ hlrtt to Uat?the Iruth 'JfrnW
lBS^ \ewo?ldltorlali-Adterthemcntt. i?H
Jwr^^fc Htmbar ri th. A-i'.lt Puroaa-i ? . aaaMTflEflSI
Count von Westaro deciared his un
compromising opposition to Trosidont
VYilaoa Bfl a peace mediator, but the
Chancellor iiapoaad of this subject
when he aaserted that he had not the
slightest official Intinatiofl of any
projected American mediation.
Dr. (irandnauer announced amid gen?
eral applause that the Socialists had
decided to vote for the war credits.
The Imperial Chancellor's speech
was a public iquarmg of accounts with
his opponents in and outside of the
P.elchstag. [tfl subject matter, as well
as the manner of its delivery, left no
doubt a< to whom he had in mind. The
COBflflnratiTfla, to ivhom l>r. von Both
mann-Holl*r.eg addre^sed himself from
flrat to laat, sat "mute and with dark
countenaneo," to quote from the "Vor
waerts's" report, "while the storm of
the Chancellor's long-gathering wrath
br.-kc over their heads."
The Chancellor ulso struck out at op?
ponents not within sound of hia voic<*,
among them an anonymous pamphleteor
to whom ho referred as having pub
lished recently strong attac'-.- along
familiar lines against the Chancellor.
Men Opposed to Chancellor.
Dr. Wolfgang Kapp, 4vhom the Chan?
cellor named as the author of another
attack on his policies. is one of tha
mos*. promini-nt men in North (iermany.
[lo ewni a tWfllTfl**thoaaaad acre estate
ia Baat Praaaia and is elaaaly all.ed
with Herr von Heyedrbrand, Conserva
tive leader ln the Keichaug; Count voi
Wettarp and other determined oppo
, of the Chancellor. Dr. Kapp wa*
b,,rn !? lh.'*!** in New Vork. whither hia
?'.ather went iluring the revolution of
Dr. von Bethmann-Ho!!we>*'s iaei
daatal raforaaeaa to peace were almost
lost sight of in the interest attach.ng
to his ("etiance of his political enemies.
The "Loi4?l Ar.zeiger" says: "After
this speech, in which the cannon thun
tior ot the Skagarrab atill echoed, no
body will be able again to say that
Ganaaat/a roadlaaaa for peace anses
from i.eed ot peace/^_
GUARD AGAINST SPIES
AT ORKNEY ISLANDS
British Hint Lord Kitchener's
Moves Were Known.
London, Wednesday, June 7. In con?
nection with .uggestions that Informa
tion of Earl K.'.chener's moTementi
rnay have been conveyed to the Gflfr?
mans by spiei, it is interesting to note
that "The OflBCial (iazette" last I |
eoBUtaod an order placing new re- |
-a Ofl rassengers landing at
ports in the Orkney Isiands.
Her.ceforth no person may land at j
IBCh ports withont specific permission I
of the nniitary authontiei at Kirkwall.
WAR SECRETARY KILLED
ON MISSION TO RUSSIA
England Staggered by Death of
Hero of Khartoum in the De
struction of the Hampshire.
VESSEL WAS MINE VICTIM,
NAVAL OFFICERS BELIEVE
King Calls Council to Consider Question of
Successor?Sir William Robertson, Chief
of Imperial Stafi. Most Likely Choice.
By ARTHUR S. DRAPER.
London. June 6.?"K. of K." fl dead.
Throughout England early this afternoon was flashed the
I news of the tragic end of Earl Kitchener, with his staff and
Lill on board, when the cruiser Hampshire was sunk last night
I off the West Orkney Islands.
I Coming on the heels of the recent naval action, the news
i staggered the nation. All London was paralyzed for a few
minutes, then the people slowly realized the import of the dis
j r.ster. Britain had no more popular idol than Kitchener, and
his loss meant to the public more than the deatli of thousands
on the battlefield or the destruction of a dozen ships.
With Kitchener on the cruiser Hampshire were his m'li
tuy secretary, Colonel 0. A. Fitzgeraid; Brigadier General
Ellershaw, of the Ministry of Munitions; Sir Frederick Don
aldson, ordnance expert; Lieutenant R. D. MacPherson, at
tached to Ellershaw'a staff; Lieutenant Robinson, Donaldson's
'aid; and Hugh O'Beirne, of the Foreign* Office, formerly coun
Isellor at Petrograd and Minister at .Sofia, and a number of
- minor army officers.
The Hampshire, a cruiser of the Pevonshire class, with a
lonnage of 10,000, had a crew of between 300 and 400 men. So
'. far not a soul is repcrted to have been saved, a heavy sea pre
. venting rej;cue ships from getting up in time, though the dis
: aster was plainly visible from the shore.
THINK KITCHENER
VICTIM OF SPffiS
London Papers Demand
Internment of All
Enemy Aliens.
London, June 7.?The morning news
papers to-day all give up their - .1
torial space to black-bordered eulogieg
of Karl Kitchener. Chief interest, per
haps, attaches to thi tributes of the
papers of Lord Northclilfe, which. after
.. Earl KitchoBBf in the early da;. 4
of the 44'ar a. the only man fat tho
Wai Offieo, turned on him a year ugo
4vith bitter denunciationi BO bein>* "an
over-rated n.an who had I ad no experi
ence except in littltj Asiatic border
eampaigns."
I TiflBBB" and "The Daily
were publicly burned in the Stuck E <
,chan?re after their hr.,t attacks on Karl
Kitchener, and by resoluticn were.
Iiarred from many public re.idmg
ronm".
To-day, however, both these newi
papen lay aside the old animus and
tound BO d:?;cordant note iti the uni
verasl ohorus of editor.al praise of the
fallen leader.
Spy Theory Advanced.
ift "Tnp Daily Mai!."
"with diotroaaing t-uddenneis a car?er
of romantic distlBCtiOB wno:h 0*4 ?'
oumod eitraordiiiary aiaaiflcaaea m tha
ectimatioa of i.i. eountrymen."
-Tr.e Daily Exproea" aaya: "Without
Karl KitchOBOl il probable that we
4vi.uld i.ave laat the war months Bg
"The Morning 1'ost," di-.-j-.-ung the
sinking of the Hampshire, says:
"CircttaaataBeOa point at ejpionage or
treachery, and the country wiil sus
pect tkla the more owinn* to the aingu
iar freedom itill allowed to enemy sub?
ject* in (.reat Britain."
Touching OB the question of a OU
cessor to Karl Kitchener, "The Morning
Post" think-, it would be a rmstake to
choose Davd I.loyd (jeorge, and ur?-.'?.
tha'. Lord Mllnor "? the unly suitable
man on the horuon.
Demand for Internment.
"It was n;s doggedness m doing hi*
work that won him popular trust, b?
cau-e ? was BKifl to the people'* own
taasparaflaoat " aaya "The Times." "He
had none of the g,fl* with which poli'.i
cians win favor lie was no orator, he
did not court ihe multituda.* and he had
few friends. It wa.. in strange loneli
ness that he trod the path of duty with
atern and ur.wavenng purpose."
"The Daily Mail" gives prominence
to the following statement:
"Karl Kitchener's intention to go to
. was ki.own to a great many
people in London on Thursday. It
ought not to have been so known. The
news of it maj,' have reached the enemy.
The public mind has been (juick to as
sociate hia death with the work of
U e have every sympathy with
the demand which eomes to us from
many part* of the country that all
alien enemies who are still at large,
especially those in bigh plac.**, be in
terned at once."
Not a Survivor Found.
Four boats were seen to leave the
| Hampihire, bnt a heavy sea waa run
j ning. Only a capsized boat and aomai
bodies have been found.
The general opinion of r.aval officers
ifl that the Hampshire was tho victim
, of a mine, rather than of a torpedo, as
| the sea waa running high, and the -ahip
,was ao ipeedy that lt would have been
'praetlcally lmpoisibla to hit her with
a torpedo.
Earl Kitchener was on his way to
Russia, at the request of the Russian
government. Ho intendod to land a*.
Archange! and viait Petrojrrad, an.l
probably go to the Rus.ian front. lln
mission had chiefly t>. do with tho aup?
ply of munitiona for Kuv<;a The earl
i expected to be back in I.ondon for th.i
Iroapaaiag of i'arliamor', un June L'O.
I An official staterrent isaued thii
levening says that Earl Kitchener wai
BB ha4-e diseussed ,'iportant military
and nnancial questions 4?ith Fmpeior
Nicholas.
Admiral Jelllcoe'a Report.
Admiral Jdlicoe's report to the Ad?
rniralty foilowa:
"I have to n-port with doop regret
that his muje-.'y'g ihip Ha .ipshire,
< aptain Herbert J K N , with,
i.ord Kitch'-nor and his staff on board,
was sunk last night at about I p m ,
to the west of tho iirkr.o*,-, o.ther by a
mine or a torpe.lo.
"Four boats woro aoon by observe,.
on shore to loavo thfl -hip. Tha wind
was north-northoast and hfl-atrw ieai
were running. Patrol n.Ifl snd de
stroyers at once pr,ice-d-.il to the spot
and a party was sent alon^ the coast to
search, but only som>? bfl-iiflfl and a rar.
aized boat have been found up to tha
present. As the whole shore has been
soarched from tho seaward I greatly
fear that there ta little hope of theie
| .iny survivors.
"No n-port has fat been received
from tho searcn partv on shore.
"II M S. Hampshire was on her way
to Kussia."
King Order? Mournlng.
By the king'i comrnand, the follow?
ing order has been issued to the arm> :
"The King hai learned with profourd
regret of the d.saitar whereby the Sec?
retary of State for War hai loit hii
life while prooeeding on a special mtf
aion to the Fmperor of Ruasia.
"Field Mar-hal Lord Kitchener g-4ve
' forty-eight fflaifl of d *'inguiahed ier
vice to tha atate, and it ia largely due
| to hia admima'.rative genius and un
1 wearying energy that the :ountry hai
I been able tj rrra'* a:;fl place in tha
| tield the armiea which to-day ara up
-J
