THE WEATHER FORECAST.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
Showers to-day and probably to-morrow;
southeast winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 74; lowest, 58.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 17,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 281.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1916. CoVuri0ht, 10ie, by Ihr Sun Printing and Publithlng Anoctation.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
.
KITCHENER AND STAFF
DROWNED AS CRUISER IS
SUNK ON WAY TO RUSSIA
Jin nil-shire Sent to Bottom
by )Iine or Torpedo West
of Orkney Islands.
WAS 001X6 TO CONFER
OX WA1J WITH CZAR
London Suspects Germans!
Learned of Trip by j
Work of Spies.
CAPITAL STrXXKI)
BY XEWS OF TRAGEDY
Demi Soldier Is 3Iourned as
Greatest Organizer of
Fighting 3ie,
frrnal Cahtt flt-jwfri tn Tiir. Siv.
I.onpo.v. June 6-The. cruiser Hnmp
lure. hearing Karl Kitchener and
party on a projected trip to Russia,
as sunk at 8 o'clock last night west
of h- Orknoy Islands, ofr the north
tcaft of Scotland. So far as known
tl ere was no survivor.
Whether the vessel was the victim
of i torpedo or a mine has not been
determined and, elnce It is believed
twit no one nliourd waj, saved, thp an
nrr to this question . may never be
known Tho Hampshire went down In
(ictp water.
News of the loss of the Hampshire
w.th the Secretary for War. the mem
Ure of his party and the olllcers and
men of the cruiser vv.is received at the
Aomirslty in the following: despatch
Horn Admiral Sir John Jelllcoe, com
manding the Hritlh Grand Fleet:
1 have to report with deep regret
t..at his MaJtstyV ship Hampshire,
t-apt. Herbert J. Savlll, R. X., with
l.oi d Kitchener and !i!b staff on
tj.ird, was sunk last night at about
b o'clock to the west of the Orkneys,
a.thcr by a mine or a torpedo.
Four bouts were seen by Observers
en shore to leave the ship. The
v.,nd was north northwest and heavy
ns were running, pjtrol vessels '
H J destroyers at once proceeded to
tile spot and a pany was sent along
tee coast to search, but only some
bodies and a capsized boat have been
found up to the present. As the
whole shore has been searched from
the seaward, I greatly fear that there
it. little hope of there being any sur
vivor. No report has yet been received
from the search pnrty on shore.
Wan on Way to Ilnaala,
An official statement Issued this eve
ning says that the Hampshire was on
he way to Russia nnd that Knrl Kitch
ener was to have discussed Impor
tant military and financial questions
with Emperor Xlcholas.
The shock of the news was the more
Were In London because It was not
ticn known that Lord Kitchener was
punning to visit Kussin or tlut he had
left London. In the absence of olllclal
ord as to whether the Hampshire was
link by a mine or a torpedo the man
In the street Is convinced that a tor
polo from n German submarine sank
the vessel. Naval officers while await
ing further details are sceptical of
this because of the speed of the Hamp
shire, nearly 52H knots, and the heavy
tea which was running at the time.
Tliey are Inclined to nttribtite the loss
of the cruiser to n mine, Tho normal
complement of tho Hampshire was 655
ethcers and men.
Lord Kitchener had made frequent
tr'ps ahroad since the outbreak of the
war He made one trip to tho Dar
danelles last fall and went to Franco
frequently.
The official press bureau announced
to-night that a memorial service will
1 held for Lord Kitchener at St.
l'aiil's, Thp dato for this has not yet
l 11 fixed.
An army order was Issued to-night
f'r all ofllcers to wear mourning In
memory of Lord Kitchener for a week,
lumnienclng to-morrow.
Klitic firore' llrcrrl.
King George commanded to-day that
th. following order be Issued to tho
rosy.
The King learned with ptofound
Mailt uf the disaster by which the
S rftiry of State for War Inst his
life while proceeding ou n special
m sunn to the F,mpernr4f Russia,
1'icld Marshal Lord Kitchener
g-ve forty-five years of distinguished
ervlco to tho State and It was
largely due to his administrative
K'liln, nnd unwearying energy that
the country was able to create nnd
t'luee In the field the armies whlrh
t'l-'hy are upholding the traditional
il'iriiK of our empire,
Lord Kitchener will be mourned
o 'tie army us n great soldier who
tinder condition of unexampled dlf
f'Mi'tv rendered supreme and de-
.((! service both to the army and
to. tlm State
N 'withstanding the deflnlteness of
Continued on f-'omfh Page.
!
m
Horatio Herbert Kitchener, Earl Kitchener
Prom an autographed photograph presented by Lord Kitchener
25,000 AUSTRIANS TAKEN
1C DT CCf AATG CFfJ7i7D
IkJ 1J tjijl fil VfcJ kj VV JJ LL I VyiV
Teutons Admit Retreat of Three Miles Invasion of
Bukowina Threatened Czar's Troops, Heavily Re
enforced, Increase the Fury of Their Attacks.
Special Cablt Pmpauh to Tim 9i v.
London, June 6. The Russian War
Office to-night reports that the nuvv
offensive along the 250 mile front of the
Austro-Hungarians ha thus far resulted
In the capture of 480 officers nnd 26,000
men, twenty-seven guns and fifty
machine guns.
Vienna officially admits that the Aus.
Ltrlans were compelled to withdraw their
lines north of okna to positions "pre
pared a little more than three miles to
the south." This means that the first
effective Impress of the new Husslnn
drive has been made at the tactically and
politically most vital jiolnt of the front
under attack, Just north of the nuko-wlna-ncssarabta
border. If the Rus
sian success Is followed up, Ciernowlti,
the Hukowlna capital, Is once more serl.
ously threatered, nnd an Invasion of the
Oallcian crownland would go far toward
uchlcvlng the chief political aim of the
new offensive, the entry of Tlumftnla on
the Allies' side,
All along the front a violent battle
rages. The Austrian War Office empha
sizes that the Russian forces are "con
tlnuilly becoming stronger" betweiei
Mlynow, on the Ikwa, and the area
northwest of Olyka. It Is at this latter
point that the Russian line forms u
salient In the Austrian front, the heal
of which points straight at the Volhynlan
fortress of Lutzk.
Attacks I nc reuse In Vmrr.
Roth here and on the Hukowlna the
Russians seem determined to break
through. Thus far the Austrian line
seems intact, hut the fury of the Rus
sian assaults Is Inrfeaslng hourly. The
Austrian statement asserts that the Rus
sians are losing heavily, In one region
a battalion l."n" men having lost 3T.0
men In killed, The Russian official late
ment follows ;
W'e captUK'd 4S0 officers, 25,000
men, twenty-seven guns nnd fifty ma
chine guns.
The Austrian War Officii report fol
lows The battle n the northeast front
continued on the hole front of 21ft
miles -vlth undiminished stubbornness.
E3
North of Okna, after stiff and fluctuat
ing battles, we withdrew our shatteied
first positions to the line piepared
live kilometers to the south.
Near Jurlowlec. on the lower Strp.t,
the enemy to-day attacked nftei ar
tillery preparation. He was cverj
where repulstd, at somu place. In
hand fighting.
At the same time a strong Russian
attack west of Tteinbowhi (soutli of
Tarnopol) broke down under our gun
lire. West-northwmt of Tarnopol there
was bitter lighting, Wherever the
enemy gained advantages be was
driven out
On one front occupied by one bat
talion there were 350 Russian corpses.
Near Sopanow (southean of Iiulmo)
there -were numerous attacks by the
enemy, with unimportant results,
Between Mlynow, on the Ikwa, and
the regions northwest of Oljkn, where
the Russians nre continually becoming
stronger, there Is bitter lighting.
Alliaieruaill iiejip.'iiciies e.iy mat ine
. . , , . .
new Russian attacks are directed bv
1l-..-.tltV V,.. i, i . .1 i
he -tactC pursue I 'in the Wan 1 h&
ll. . .... V' ":' :?' .
making attacks In massed formation
with the view to breaking through at
one point or another,
The Aostro-Hungarlan forces oppwlng
the Russian attacks are estimated at be
tween 600,000 and 700. non m,.M,
A despatch from Holla ml says that
Kleld Marshal von Hlndenbuig, tlie Herman-commander
In northwestern Russia,
has been placed In personal couimaiid nf
the forces attacked by the Russians in
the southeast.
I'etrogrnd advices Indicate thai the
Russian offensive against I ho Aiistrlans
was a complete Hiirpiisu In the Russian
public nnd Infer that It was eipuilly un
expected in Austria. The Austrian fotces
had been reduced for (he attack ou the
Italians. The number of Certnan troops
sent to aid the Austrlnus, It Is stated, is
thus far limited tn two divisions.
It Is anticipated thai 1 tie Russian ad
vance will compel the wilhdiawal of part
of the forces from Veidim, ns, well as
part nf the Austrian troops mi, the Treu
linn. According In reports from Pclro
xra.l Orn. llruslloff has a tremendous
accumulation of guns and munition- find
jgrellt mafttg of infantry.
YUAN SHIM' AI DIES,
CHOSE A SUGGESSOR
hi Yunn Hunir, China's New
President, Will Take
Office nt Once.
MAY KXH ItEVOIil'TIOX
Hints Given That Yuan Was;
Kit her Poisoned or
Killed Himself.
Sprciat CnhU Tlttpntch tn Tim St.
Pbkis, June 6. Yuan Shlh-k'al, first
President of the Thlnee Republic, died
here to-day after an Illness of everal
days.
Ills death nt thl time will probably
mean the end of the revolutionary move
ment which hs gained great force In
the southern provinces of China. Several
provinces had announced their InriV
pendencc of the Chinese Republic, and
lihe only condition on which the revnlu-
1 tlonnry leaders would agree tnrome bark
to the republic was the abdication of
Yum:
Vuan Shlh-k'al died or i.rnila. . o.
'o nervoux prnMratlnn. Three I rencli
and several Chinese physicians attended
I ''in. Ilii lllne was complicated by
I ' varying treatments, the lr.trurttort
u vet, hv the French physicians being 1
it' is rumored in some nuarters that .
Yuan did not die a natural death end It
l. even hinted that he may have com-
ml! led sulcid
Tlie 1'rei.Uleiifa lnt nrf. It Is slid, was :
to name I.I Vuar Hung as his sttccesor !
and to send word to all military and 1
such nm"orl,IC" l" rccl'KI,UH """ nMtand by favorable reports which came'
Vinn-hung will be pro. l.Wmrd ' l" ,-1',-v- r' Uoosevelt himself)
Piesnlent :o.mrriow o'ome .mxtety Is , is keeping as silent on the third ticket'
feP over the situation Ch.-ing-"un is I p.,lnt as Ju.vtlre Hughes has on prepared
reillted with the Intention of tenorlng ! nr
tho voung Kmperor to the throne The
att' ude of the Prexldentlsl l)dyguaril l.,,iel t Cinwiiltted.
of ID, OllO also creates KTViillTeM.-.
No disturbances took place m Pekln "nether or not he would consent ..
when the death of the President .v.i give hl views on the question of a
aim itinced. Tiian Chl-Jtil. the rhllwse t))r,, ,ickr.. ., . u,.v. .1,,,
Premier tnimpil l.'itpl v titiiiunt-wl t lu sill,'-
essinu of the Vice-President
- - ,
l.l Vuan
Hung, to the Presidency.
The American and llrttlsh
Hon quarter that It was Kite fur them
to remain at their homes Some well to
do Chinese, however, are hurriedly en-
legation quarter nnd bringing their!" mr'n Chicago saying that he
valuables from their homes would run at the head of such a ticket.
WASHINGTON ANXIOUS.
iinn's llentli i:i. . lr,l in I n.etile
.... . ....
on.lltl.nii. In China.
Washington. June Confirmation
of the ibutn f Vuin Shlh-k a. Ii.ih beeii
ret.-lv fd at the Stat. IVpai fluent and
ut the Chinese Legation here.
The State IV aitmert is dei i,'y con-
ceined over the (ffert whkli the death .
of this rorennst Chinese statesman will
hnve on conditions In China H s nc-
ognlzed thai Vuan Shlh-k'al as the
"strnnc man .if CI ma, luis been n'lle
.l... -. . . 1 1.
others f.iiltd. mid foreign uitiles' gen-
i. ill.. in . .1 ii i,ni,-i .in 1 -..i , i 111 1
of Khartum.
to a friend mi ln New York
erally have counted on u.m lnh-lal
as an insurance against instability.
YUAN A MAN OF ACTION. .
iir,.nui.i ti...... i ...... 1 1 i...
nomination wouin never tiring the rrn- tatniy ror iiugoee, nnu pos-mi) in.-my-ehn
l)Minst. gresslvis Into batmony with the Republl-1 two. He said that New Jersey had
Yuan Shlh-k'al, President of the lie. cans The nomination of Ilurton or adopted a resolution raiting on the Re
public of China for two ears and two . Weeks would have the same effect that . publican convention to appoint six men
months, had himself proclaimed lhn- of fotclng n-ninder both wings nf the old to act jointly with six representatives of
peror of China In December, IS 15, but Party beyond all dreams of union. As the Progressive party In casting a plat-
nllnrivnirl ruTin....! In ,1 ihn llir.nui fllT tilt' StlirV that Senator I.OtlLro ll.lS Iafh. 1 1 sf .1 n rv til lltlttl llltrtfeS. NhU
and remained the head of a republic
Ills proclamation as l-Jmperor six mouths
iiko caused a revolution, which at the
hour of bis death still continued serl-
ously to menace his Covernment. Like
earner i nines e revolts, mis rebellion lie.
Can In southern China. It spread rapidly
to tlie central provinces
When Yuan Shlh-k'al was reported seri
ously III ten dais ago It was rumored that
.he bad bei n poisoned The Chinese Legi
Hon In Washington denied this and said
that l.e was not seriously ill. Kier
since tho revolt of hist December theie
have Is-en tumors that tho Chlniwe Piesl
1 dent would resign It wns said that he
. had placed the iiueellou of his resigning
in the hands of the peace plenlpoten-
'tlarles sitting In conference at Nankin.
There were ten of these delegates, rep-
, resenting the ten provinces loyal tn Yuan
s.nin-Knis i.nierumeni I ney tieciried
tliat he must rem .In as President until
a new and prope.ly chosen Parlla.nont
could select IiIm successor.
There Is no doubt that Yuan whs the
strongest and most remarkable man of
China In modern times. He was bom
in nir iuii.iiii - in niiiiiiii in in
In the province of Hoiian In ls.,13 of mid-
.ii. i,. tn.. ..
.,... 7... r "rm
u"vri nun ikliinj ill Uiliuil,
In ,S9B V""n w',s r"""1 ,V,tl"
discussion of the needs of the empire,
anil two years later the Kmpress Dow -
nger appointed him flovernnr-lieneral of
me province of Shantung This was the
year nf the llnxer tumbles which had
been brewing tot years, and Yuan took
a decided stand against the llokeis.
Yuan was always noted us ,t roan of
action, It wns said of him that when
a group of Doners called upon him tif
villain why they believed nil forelRners
should be driven out nf China, Yuan
gavo them n iIIiiikt nnd then escorted
them nut Into a courtyard, whero a
stpiad nf soldiers, acting under orders,
shot and killed them all. Yuan was ap
pointed Viceroy of Cld-ll In iioi and
inn mucn to t j ii I iti up an army along
uiuiieni iiiieii, ins nil
Iracted the attention
causa of tho reform measures ho In-
auguraten,
Yuan was appointed ilr.tnd Councillor
m r.iu nnu in ine following year hi,
beenmo Senior (luaidlan of the Hpr Ap-
patent, In 190! lie was dismissed hy
the Prince Regent and returned to hf
Conffittiril on l.ant Pnge,
T.R.T0 RUN ANYHOW,
Third Ticket Considered Sure
if Repiihlicans T)o Not
Name Tllni.
COLONEL KEEPS SILENT
''. Wood in Prominence
A;rnhi, hut Compromise Can
didate Is Scouted.
Otstfr Rat, L. I., June Indica
tions to-night nre that Col, Roosevelt
will head n third party ticket If the Re
publloans nominate Justice Hughes or
any other person than himself. This
tiernme apparent to-day, following closely
on the political developments, including
the rry of "Roosevelt or nobody" raised
In Chicago by George W. Perkins and
the Hag speech made on Monday by
Justice lltnrhcs
., , ..,..,..,, .. ,
' ol; ""oseiclt friends .ay It can be
. late,l positively that he Is in the nght to
ittie finish, that he hasn't fought his
; .,, ,r Am,cnnlBm nm prcpar,.
i ... . '
j n'M nrn"chout the countrj- for Vo many
week with the Intention of quitting now
I and letting some other man 1h named to'
run as the Republican nominee fur Pres.-
''''" ln ,he contest to defeat President
WINoii.
The Colonel Is not going to withdraw
as a candidate for the Ilepubllcan noml-
na,!o fvor of anytKidy at this time,
tml he Is known to be encouraged In this
... .i.t n r,..r, i
rniii. a. i... u . i.i
,,n i.i.ir- in mm irom v.nicago
til Cfiinmit himtitlr nr. ,1,.
The Colonel denied to'.nlt n . 1
"f ,' l,a,.on that he
WOUI'' "end a third ticket if Jutlce
Hughes ii nominated. When he w.m
asked almm the reooit i.i
he said :
"I haven't ent an message nn the
subject at all "
, "n repealed un.it he lias said a'l
al"tig, that he was neither for nor ,
nK:il'H any candidate. '
duller n th d.i he said the sme
"'" g when lie was n .SVw York citv
w 1H ' nfn.nted with the iiinmr that
'1 ad sjtd he vvn'i, support ,M iJor-i;eti
" lpl1 '"' comiiromi-e candidate Col.
'(""-"Vt U Is known to think highly of
" " mil ins irienits sav it l bv
means inionceivable. in vkw of this
liking and Ms Intimate knowledge of
th,. man. that he would gl.ullv give him
1 stltilMirl l.tit l,A 1. ,u ..'. ......
ii i'i- it.i- inn a.iui so.
There was comment seme time ago hy i
i ruuit ssiie leant rs cui-sj. to cm Itoo.-c-
let that Uen Wood did not loom up as' To-dav' mafe. meeting was held at t
a IIkel i inilblatf because h.. w mid have P M.w'thJohn Jam tike of Mary
- chance of winning However, tho land as chairman. Mr Tanner told th
alk uf ien Wood was revived by the delegates that he could posltiiely
call wii .-Ii the itinera! nald the Cntnn.a ' nromlse a majority of New- York's
at the .Urfiupnffriiii otflces to-day
lsiiiinlilted tir lortelloii.
If the (1. i P leaders who looked
forwatil to the mining to Chicago of
Ceorge It Coitelyoti, straight from Saga,
molt! Hill and a conference with the
Colonel, rxpi.et.tig ex-President Itoose
le t's former Secretary to b,. the bearer
jf messages promising the Colonel's
uppiirt to .Hi) candidate, they have
iipiliablj been disappointed Mr. Corte
mo it is IkIi..v,..I I,, r.. u ...a,,..'... .i..i.i
hatd for Hoosevelt. tlrs't last ami .-ill ti,
I. ine. anil tile mention nf niinnrnnil,.
dldates Is not expected to llnd htm In
an untenable mood.
Sftiiitnr 1 lurilftiL' lpiiwin,.ri. . I,np.nn 1
t the Itepubllcnu national 'convention, '
Is one of the men who has been men-
, tloneil as a cotiiproliilse candidate whose
'been proposed as a compromise randl-
uaie. mat is a report tnai nns not
reached the Colonel's ears, and he Is
Hearing everything mat is going forward
In Chicago that Is known to .Mr. Perkins
or neorgu von i,. .Meyer or wiiiiam
i,oeii, j... or jiuiii .111-1,111111. nr uny oi ,ion to their respective State delega
the other Roosevelt lieutenants. i tn)1!,
I Colder I.lind. .Instlce.
OtTers (Irrninn American lit. .. .. .
Repreeentatlie Calder of .New Ymk
t ol.. Roosevelt gave out this evenlniT ,M ,l0 Western delegates what he knew
letter i nun it ii. iiiotnmirg on,
New York city, nnother American ofi
h'VT" TiTh,rih ih""cn!".,r'i "''!!;'
tin. he wo.il I furnish he L.ilonel with
;:,;:rfr,!cuoonvvtAarerl,i;r.'l!
" ' n,i n .7 n,'l, 1.1 k T. 1
"UPisTters and that tl e would be Just!
" nu" " muni
l' "' ' " ",r I""1,""' ... .
' " ' 1
if ' ', ,,i ;vil,ri v-..nerei..s ..'
1 "rB. ' " ' ,n", ?, '',
Chicago to onniincn the Kepulillian
deli gates that you must be the candidate,
' of Imth parties betause you created the I
1 Issues of tlie campaign of IDlti, nnd be-1
causo you aroused tun spirit of Amerl
...i l ..r.. 1 tl.n ............ ,...i.. ....
. ''ft,.. . V . "i
r i- nmuin-n in uir i'H"ti. t. ni U Ml
'"".i" won the Ilepubllcan delegates
that tho so-called Oerman Americans
1 will give you ineir overw neiming supimrt
as Americans and repudiate the Insults
of a few self-appointed leaders who'
have been un-American .In their de
mands." A letter was given out late to-night
from Dr. Francis K. Shine nf Itlsli.,,.
Ariz., to the Roosevelt Non-Partlsan
l.,. i,roe Ilr. S i lie s a V rclnlm, hi.
lilrth, a lifelong Democrat and was a
delegato to the Ilaltltnore convention In,!"11 ''" ul ",lrr w" "
IlilS. He Is a grcat-great-grandson of1""1' hf wl" l'P lvlctl; the understand.
Thmnas Jefferson. Col. Roosevelt'- ml.
vlsers regard this letter as of equal Im -
porlauro to the, one written hy Thomas
A lMlson. Tho letter says
..:.'.' iin. .-,i.. ,, ...
d.n.nlsVioi 'Zh' ' MirhU,r,'shanc:kVo,r Z' "ZJZ"
of forelgnetH be-1 from heritage, tradition and association, I Ho,T.V ' h ?,,nlh ' , SWi !2
that tho present crisis In our develop- I
moot as n nation is sucn that all good
Americans should Ignore party nffllla-
t ons and In every way support a man
who personifies the Ideals that should
, be dear to Iho hearts nf all Americans,
national self-respect and pence with
honor, such a man in our rormer Presl
dent, Ool. Roosevelt, and I submit my
mme for membership to the league."
MOOSE TO NAME COLONEL;
HARMONY PLAN IS UPSET;
G. 0. P. MEN ALSO UNRULY
PROGRAMMES FOR
CONVENTIONS IN CHICAGO TO-DAY
QHICAGO, June 6. The Republicans and Projrressivcs will get down
to work to-morrow to carry out the following programmes for the
day:
REPUBLICANS. PROGRESSIVES.
Convention called to order at 1 1 Convention ca'.led to order at
o'clock by Charles D. Hilles, chair- noon by Victor Murdock, chair
man of the Republican National man of the Progressive National
Committee. Committee.
Prayer by the Rev. John Timo- rayer by Bishop William Fra-
thy Stone.
Rending of the call for the Re
publican Nationul Convention.
Announcement of temporary
officers: Senator Wurrcn G. Hard-
ing, chairmen; Willinm J. Stone, man; Prank P. Corrick, scrgeant-sergeant-at-arms.
nnd James R. at-arms, and O. K. Davis, sccrc
Rcynolds, secretary. tary.
Address of temporary chairman. Address of temporary chuirman.
Designation of committees on Designation of committees on
permanent organization, crcden- permanent orgnnizntior., rules, or
tinls, rules, order of business and llcr ot business, credentials, pint
miscellaneous business. form ind miscellaneous business.
Adjournment. Adjournment.
HUGHES GAINING VOTES AT
EXPENSE OF FAVORITE SONS
,p Plorlo-ot: NT V ATlinn'tv IS Mow foi-sov nolo
1 11111101 rietlgeS IN. 1. Iiaj011iy, 10 iNCW deiSey Ueie-
gates, Nebraska's 16 and Bulk of Illinois's 56 Added
to Jurist's List in Reports to Mass Meeting.
Cntc.voo, June 1
Hughes
as a re-1
. f i
i" i im iii-ri n in I it.' r in is ,,. -
suit of the seconu in.m- m""
Hughes delegates In the Sherman House
After reports were submitted by State
Chairman Kred C Tanner of .New- orK.
C.ov. It. Livingston Heeckmaii of Ilhode
Iiland, Howard II P.aldndge. leader of
the Nebraska delegation, and delegates
from other Stutcs thai are swaying
toward Justice Hughes the leaders of
i the movement asserted that already the
blocks of delegates held by favorite sons
,,r disintegrating and that tlie aeiegaies
individually are pledging their support
" i on the second or third ballot.
t)1p news from Nebraska twemed es-
.,.0allv significant to the Hughes
worker's The St.ite'M delegation Is In-
Sruct(., for Cummins. I.eatler Paid-
,,,!,.., nminlsed. however, that the slx-
votPW will be cast for Justice
tt.t,. u.i,,n,Vri. the delegates are n-I
i,,tsp,i 1,1 enator Cummins, and he
,Jr, ,h it in occur nn the second or third
1 .11,,
uauui
Tinnier
rinnlses tnliirltr.
eighty-seven for Hughes The latest In
formation Is that forty-seven or forty
eight of these will vote for the Justice.
Mr Tanner said he had heard on excel-
lint authority thut Illinois wouin eventu
ally cast the inajouiy ... i ,..t -s.a
fur Hughes.
We have two great andtdates In
New York," said Mr Tanner "One of
these. Mr Hughes, Is In the prime of
life No one can doubt Ills Ilepubllcan-
Ism after his great work for tlie partv
In inns, when he sounded the kennte nt
Youngstnwn. and travelled all over the
countrv for Mr Tart A pnrt of .Mr.
Hughes's strength He" in the fnrt that
for six ;,eaiK he has not engaged In po-
IIMinl i-nntroversv "
L. C llreiuian. a delegate from New
Jersey, niiorted that a poll of the
delegation
slioweu eignteen votes or-
Jeisey, he enld, appealed for harmony
0 asked the ungues meeting tn adopt
i ' the resolution because of the effect such
,i. resolution
action would haie on the convention
t ti, motion was voted down, but the
uukIii.s supporters will "uiuim the reso-
,,,, Hughes, giving an estimate
formed from long acquaintanceship,
' ,lmt Mr n"Rh'" wm"'1 prnvr
, ,. a KreRl jen.lrr because of his
M ,o "
1'1''
n,)V tleeckman nld tin- Rhode Island
' flov tleeckman "aid th Rhode Island
delegation was tinlnetructed, but that
'the members had resolved to vote for
Hushes Dr P.. J. Turner, a negro delo-
Kat" " portiii-- fnr deorgla. complained
that an effort had been made to "steam
:r -.
CONVENTION BETTING LAGS,
llogrira Men Ask 2 to I, ('olom'
Hackers Offer r.tciia.
Convention betting lagged yesterday
In the financial district, nnd there were
no wagers of special note.
According to Chester Thompson the
Hughes and the Roosevelt backets are
having a hard time agreeing on terms.
The Hughes men nre asking 2 to 1 and
the Roosevelt backers are willing to
Klv" ovon ln0'Vv' , ,
t I HO lionseveii ni.t-sers suy
that If
"lclr favorite Is nominated by the Re-
""g oenii; ii ii""'- "'" -hi run i.uy-
1 where from fi to 5 to S to Thompson
I '"J' ll','u 1 "'.r." .,B ' 1 money
to lie piaceu u ..t i..
' Rets placed yesterday with Fred
nomination. Tho betting started with
3 tn 1 that T. R, would not be tho can
didate, then the odds dropped to 2 to 1,
then to 5, nnd finally even money.
llt'CKYtOOl) INN,
Shawnee nn-I)elware. Now epn. Ideal
rllmate. Family .ipartmenta, No baiter
(tnlf Links In the world. Bnoklat, A, J,
MURPHY and C. V. MUIU'll Y, Manama.
A4v,
TWO PARTY
zier McDowell,
Rending of the cnll for the Pro
gressive National Convention.
Announcement of temporary
officers: Raymond Robbins, chair
the colored deli gates out of the
delegation because It was known they
, . . .
i.ivoreu nugnes.
"Thy even threatnif.l to hold back
our convention tickets,' he said, "but
it .von't work. There are live ticorglan
votes for Hughes "
At the cloe of the meeting Ilughee
badges made their appearame for the
first time. Senator Pulton of Oregon
had .'.flOft made .md they ate to he
distributed to-night to as many delegates
as possible.
COLIJY HITS JURIST.
Cite lr on ' t 11111 nllulilli I "
Talks uf ,etv Speech.
Chic.vIo, June B There was much
comment here to-du on Justice lluslies's
speech of v(tenl.i'. The regular He
publi ,i', leaders taouuht it would have.
ilt1le elte, t one wa nr t he other and the
Progressing wete dl-atl-ned with It.!
ll.i.iiliridge c.ilbv issued a statement re-
tleetmg the view In the Hull Moos,, camp.
Here It Is
"A strong
and date mu-t nr. sent
record that eannot be stiivif ullv as
sailed. His record consists nut alone of
lits iii-ts hnf :itso nf his ntteriinees. The I
latter are often more Imimrtant than his I Hepemla ,,,, t, n,., niu,,.,
.icts because they disclose his lioint of i. ,.,.,.-,, , ,
view and the habits of his mind. ' ""rrsslw. leaders an- now ..m-
"Ai'.iisatlotis are frequentb madev"J'1'" '".'it the Hull Moose convention
ag.i list a candidate that do not injure villi not stand for the nomination of
him, because thev can be refuted or at nil'- man hut Col. Hoosevelt. If Mr.
KMsi ii.intii. mil in ir ill.- ii. . ii-....".,
s one which a candid lie Ii.ih alt'eadv ad
mitted to be true refutation is Itupnssl-
, . . .
, "Justice Hughes is on tecord in words
that are unqualified as to the absolute
unavailability or a ,iuti. e or tue mi
preme Court fur electlv.i offlie He even
li.u asserted that n is nnl iioniina'.lv'
llglble lie has called attetit.i.u to the
, f ,0i that Judicial ofl'ke is a dl.-.iualltlea
,,, fnr .,.. oandldacy for ilecl.iral of'
tlce from the moment Judicial office is
accepted. He has temarked th.- danger
that the Judicial decisions of .1 Judge
might be capitalized and that 'nothing
could be more violative of the spirit of
tlie Judicial itustltutlon.'
" 'The Supreme court.' says Justice
Hughes in his authenticated and unde
nied Intel view with Rribbl Wise, 'must
not be dragged Into politics ' And the
Justice goes further He brushes aside
. very cottielv.ible emergency that could
tempt a political party to seek Its can-
Inlate In tlie Supreme Court as of rela-
I tlvely less moment than 'the uprooting
""""-
'I' ' ami in m-. ..u.., ... ...c
stained dignity of the courts.
"Admission l tlie highest form of
jirnof Justice Hughes) has already ex
hausted the power of grave expression In
pronouncing adverse Judgment upon any
party which would seek to nominate
him and iixin himself should lie devt
nto from the Htnndatd of Judicial duty,
which he has defined as his own
When in Hie course of the cam
palgti, would Inevitably hnpicn. the
'nir,.'p.'let.v of Jtistico ilugh.s b.vMmlK
a ,, UcM .andidate Is raised by the
j"""r,x
1 Party which might nominate him
could do in tlie face of this criticism
could do in tlie face of this criticism
would be to confess its destroying truth
ami Its crushing application to .him as
the candldati. and the party that inimi-
nated him. both of whom would sh.uo
the hlame "
-- . - - . - . ;
SPY WORK SUSPECTED.
Loudon
Pnper lleii.ni.da Intern
ment nf All Knrmy Aliens.
."prcieil Cal.le Drtwtch tn Tnr Sis
Ixinpon, June 7 The .Voniini? ',)f
says :
"The circumstances of the Hamp
slilte's destruction point to espionage or
treachery "
Tlie Duffy Mail, a strenuous cam
paigner against spies, recording the
popular suspicion of espionage, says :
'The fact that leord Kitchener was
going to Russia was known to a very
wide circle. There is an Intense nnd
general demand for the Immediate In
ternment of all enemy aliens.
"The west and northwest of Ixmdon
harbor hundreds' nnd perhaps thousands
of (Jerman bom whose sentiments n r a
Inconsistent with the certificates of
Itrltlsh citizenship they carry. Thl
applies particularly to the Germans
naturalized In the past three to five
jears. In addition to these between
10,000 nnd 16,oon Herman subjects ure
still allowed to roam Ilrltaln moro or
less at their wills. It Is the unanimous
opinion that these ought to b Interned
rorinwnn.
Third Ticket Held Probable
Unless IJooscvclt He
fuses Nomination.
HIS ADVISKRS SAID TO
EXPECT Sl'CJI A STEP
Ifepubliean Lenders He
ported 1'nablc to Deliver
Delegates to T. If.
PL If K 1X8 FORCED TO
filVK THE WAH CRY
II utiles. Root or lliirilinv
Now Indicated as 0. O. P.
Choice.
CMli'ioo. June 6. Whethet thcie la
to ho a third ticket In tho Held and a
repetition of tho political history of
1U1 2 now- depends entirely upon Col.
Itoosovelt.
The leaders of the Progressive party
h.tvo worked hard to stem the tide In
favor of Mr. Hoosevelt that has been
using within their own ranks nnd to
bring ulmut a delay In the Hull Moose
nomination until the Itepubllcans Imve
had an opportunity to act. Mr. Itoose
vtlt'.s lieutenants hnve failed in their
effort and to-night they practically
thtevv up the sponge.
They have agreed In prm-ei'd to the
nomination of Col. Itoosovelt in tlie
otditiary course of convention htisi.
r.ess, which means that the cx-Presi-dent
will l.e named by tlie Hull Moose,
probably on l'rlday of this week, and
not later than SiUurday.
As there Is little likelihood of tho lle
publlcan convention making a cholcu
U-fore Saturday Mr Hunsi-i ,.t w.ll
probably n.np ,.n ,, i,v t!l p,0.
Cretmive-, before the Kcpiibln. in nniii -nee
has been determined
i ne latlliri of tile Hud Muns,. It .tiler
to put off their nomination until toe
Jtepubllcarw havo acted ua.s ..nh one
al. - ' "...wnaoie ueveiopniCIHs
III MllVllC ll !.. ..!. !
ii-u. ij vvntcn upset, temporarily at
lets1, the harmony prngrumme
, inms.-vci; ls n,t t( jmri ,,nliy
tiiovi'ineiit again this ear it will b
Mi'.t'ly b.-iaiise of Ills own tefusal to
peliiiit tho use of liLs ll.ltlic.
.S'iibml,v In Chicago has been author-m-d
ns yet to announce what col
Roosevelt's attitude will be toward the
action of the Progressive convention
but his closest friends wejo saying
positive!) he will not accept smli u
nomination. The action of the Pro
gressive delegates in running avvny
from the control of llcorgo W. Perkins
nnd other Progressive leaders was tho
most Important development m the
general situation.
On the Republican side of th fer'e
Justice Hughes was still leading th
field, with his opponent conceding him
270 votes nnd the Hughes m.inageis
claiming nt least 3.10 m the first ballot.
The favorite smis, aided by several of
the old lino leaders, who nre Intent upon
heading off the Hughes movement, made
a frantic effort to-diy to get together an I
pool their strength for on of their
number against the Jurist Hut on thl
occasion, as in previous ones, they count
not agree nnd their efforts ended In
failure
favorite sons' Tiilnl Mrciimh.
On the eve of the assembling of the
convention, the Hist session lielng srhed.
uled for 11 o'clock to-morrow morning
the favotlte sons were contending tin
would control together more than con
votes on the first ballot, which worn i
make the selection of Mr Hughes Im
possible ou that roll call Thev we.e
not so confident as to wii.it will happen
utter the first ballot.
Developnn nts italic ite a ste.idv gtowth
of the Hughes sentiment, and unless th-so-called
State favorites can get together
on some one candidate tlie drift Is prepv
rertaln to be toward the Justice aft.
the Hi si ballot Hughes managers att I
some of the old time leaders bellcie ha
will lie no minute I b) the third ballot at
least.
The feeling among patty leaders la
that the Republican nomination will h.
won by Justice Hughes or l'.IIIiu Root or
Senator Harding of Ohio. If the llughe'i
strength disintegrates It Is llkelv to go
either to .Mr. Itoot or Senator Harding
A strong effort was put forth to-day in
the Interest of both of these men. but
It was acknowledged that little headway
had been made for them.
A remarkable situation has developed
at Chicago. The ao-called Old Huarrt
leaders want neither Hughes nor Roose
lelt. Some of them, though, nre looking
wltli greater favor upon Col. Roosevelt
than they are upon the Justice because
they believe the otganlzatlon would re
ceive better treatment nt Mr. Roosevelt's
hands.
Rut the fact of the matter Is that the
old time leaders cannot deliver the Re
publican coiiientlon to Mr. Hoosnelt
even If they dflrel to do so Senator
I'tnroae. told ileorge W. Petklns this
most emphatically when Perkins sought
the uld of Pentose .n obtain, ng the
Pennsylvania delegates fnr Roosevcii.
Feellim unlnt llonaci clt.
One of the surpiising things ,.
big gathering of lieimlihi n
there Is so little si i in
delegates in favor of i . I
There l no longer ,in ., , .
'f
