ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
city
EDITION
EDITION
Ioi . '
Ten Pages
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Wednesday, June 7, 1916
Ten Pages
iL KITCHENER AND HIS
STAFF PERISH IN WRECK
OFF COAST IF ORKNEY:
WERE BOUND FOR RUSSIA
t
CRUISER CARRYING PARTY OF
NOTABLES BELIEVED TO HAVE
BEEN TORPEDOED OR MINED
British Secretary of State for War Was Noted for Having
Created an Army of 5,000,000 From England's Un
trained Manhood; Was First to Announce He Would
Follow King's Appeal to Nation to Abstain From Use of
Alcohol During War; Frequently Criticized, Especially
Regarding Shortage of Artillery Ammunition; Had Fric
tion With Field Marshal French, According to Rumor;
but not before hud It been saddened
us today.
laced Much criticism.
Karl Kitchener whs appointed sec
retary of state for war on August S,
1914.
! Am the war progressed and Great
Mritnln's deficiencies In certain di
rections, particularly in regard to the
shortage of artillery a nun mi It ion, be
came apparent, Karl Kitchener was
subjected to severe criticism, led by
Lord Xorthcllffe. It was later re
ported that friction had arisen be
tween Karl Kitchener and Field Mar
shal French, then in command of the
British forces in France, Field Mar
shal French finally relinquished his
command.
Foremost of Kitchener's achieve
menu is the creation from England's
untrained manhood of a huge army.
At the beginning of the war, Grout
Britain had only a few hundred thou
sand trained men. Today more than
ii, 000, 000 men are enrolled. No in
timation was Riven that he Intended
to leave Kngland.
The Orkney islands, nff which the
Hampshire went down, are off the
north coast of Scnthint. Karl Kitch
ener irohahly intended to dehark at
Archangel.
The Hampshire was one of the
Devonshire class of six cruisers. She
cost jor.o.noo.
Sctrral OHmt Notables UM.
Sir lla.v Frederick Donaldson,
among those who accompanied J.ord
Kitchener on Ihe Hampshire, was;
technical adviser to DaIi! Movd-j
Ooorge, nvn'ster of muntllonH. lln
CI P. ELEPHANT
SEEMS " TD LACK
KEEPER: CHAOS
AMONG LEADERS
Never Since Birth of Party Has
There Been Such Lack of
Order and Enthusiasm, It Is
Said,
HUGHES RETAINS HIS
COMFORTABLE LEAD
Justice Said to Have 100
Votes More Than Nearest
Competitor, Weeks; Roose
velt Poor Third.
m a pas: president or mi msi'Mliei i moknim umi ihciii. uhb itiMi
of MechacL-ul Engineers end i im-m- Chicago, June U. The republican
i rcr of varlou;i ngineerlntf soeleCei. and the progressive, national conven
j JlURh J.imes (1'Helrnc was si cond Ibm-i H1 both assemble tomorrow
u-rmiop,. in th,. n.iiiui. ... i ., .,.., , 'without uiiv luilit utton that the lead-
I W .. ll ilk .-... 1C(tr 1W.1.J Wn
Recent Proposal to Reduce His Salary Bitterly Opposed was a native of Ireland.
ling. Gen. Arthur Kllorshaw won
Dally by Currier or Mull, flOe
a Mouth, Single Coplea,
found
eh they
l ho common ground
hoped to establish
on whli
I unity.
ThrnA rlavu nf almost cotlKtant enn-
honors in fighting on the Indian fron- ,.,,,, h.,vp, fiud, to brine Ihe re-
measurable," and Pointed Out That His Acceptance of!"1' J97:?8- ,'" wa" 'v,r,'1biie..s and progressive to an
' . . r wounded in the finer war. ! agreement on a limn for the presldeii-
I.leut. Col. Oswald Arthur Fltzgor-1 tlal nomiiuttion. A hall' dozen names,
eld who hnrl been ncrsnn.'it militarv i any one of which isj acccplublo to the
! secretary to I,ni,l Kitchener since republican, have been rejected by
August, 1911, wan Kitchener's assist-i
by Premier Asquith, Who Declared His Services "lm-
Office Was a Real Sacrifice on the Atlar of Patriotism.!
(By Morning Journal Special Leased Wire.)
London, June ti. The news thalie
Knrl Kitchener, secretary of state for
war. and his staff, who were proceed
ing to Kussia aboard the cruiser
Hampshire, were lost off the Orkney
islnmls last nlRht, was the most stun
ning blow Great Uritain has received
Kime the war began.
This is the second shock the coun
try has sustained within a week. The
other was when the newspapers np
pwired Friday evening with the first
Intelligence of the naval battle in the
North sea in the form of a list of the
ships lost, with virtually no intima
tion that there was any compensation
In the way of enemy losses. The bul
letin telling- of the death of Kitchener
Have the country even a greater shock.
A Popular Hero.
Kitchener was the one outstanding
personality whom the people talked
of and believed in as a great man,
imtwithstanding newspaper attacks,
which. at a former period of the war
threatened to un,d.-rmlne his popu-I
terllj --mid . the public confidence In
(lira. , ,
A. (clegi-am from Admiral Sir John
JolUcot, commander of the fleet, giv
ing the bnrP facts, was received at
the admiralty about It o'clock in the
morning. The first official announce
merit was issued at about 1:30 in the
afternoon. Such news, however, can
not he kept entirely secret even lor
an hour. Before noon rumors were
spreading, and the telephones in the
newspaper offices were busy with in
quirers anxious to know whether this
one of the many reports circulating
in these days of tension had any
foundation. They were told there
was nothing in it.
ilmirnl .li-llicoc's lienor!. I
"I have to report with regret lliat
his niajestv's ship Hampshire, Capt.
Herbert J. Savill, It. .V, with IiiM
Kitchener and his staff on board,
was sunk last night at about o'clock
to the west of the Orkneys, either by
a mine or a torpedo.
"four boats were seen by observ
ers on shore to leave the ship. The
wind was north, northwest and heavy
'ens were running. Patrol vessels and
destroyers proceeded to the spot and
a iarty was sent along the coast to
search, but only some bodies and a
(unsized boat have been found up to
the present. I greatly fear that there
Is little hope of there being any sur
vivors. "H. M. ri. Hampshire was on her
way to Kussia."
INdlcv Deny Humor.
When the announcement finally
was issued the fuct spread about l-on-tt'in
some time before the newspapers
could got to Into the streets. There
was a crowd ubont thP stock ex
."hange which required police reserves
to deal with. The police told every
one' to move on; that there 'was not
truth in the reports.
At the same time another mass of
people was assembling about the gov
ernment offices in Whitehall. All the
windows of the war office had t li t;
furtnins lowered. That confirmed
'he rumor beyond doubt. Other
Towds gathered around the newspa
per offices. When the boys came out
with an armful of extras the people
ffl on them and fought for the pa
lers. In the course of the afternoon
'he flnKS orl all buildings were flown
"' half-staff.
The Knglish undoubtedly are a
"ole pecple and have taken ihe good
a"i bad tidings of the war as they
''"'he with an absence, of emotion sur
Mslng to outsiders. Hut no one
could have walked the streets today
without perceiving that something
'hich the common people took as a
calamity ,ad befallen them.
The foreign office was saddened by
,h losg of one of its most valued
n 3 , 'IIS
I T If if ' IS 9 i
I icld MaisLal i:ai l Mtrlii-nci-. !
1
I
I
'writ military secretary when Ihe latter
! was commander In-chief in India, ten
I years ago.
! Ills Greatest IVnt.
Of several things that entitle Karl
j Kitchener to a place in world history,
the most notable Is that he organized
I the largest volunteer army the world
has ever seen, In the greatest war
nil times.
1 Within a year from the midden out
i break of the European war in An
jgust, 19H, the ranks of Hritish flght
1 ing men were quadrupled by an in
crease from Icsh than one million to
I nearly 4,uon,ono.
! All other great powers that entered
the war had huge standing armies and
compulsory military service. Great
Hritaln alone faced Ihe issue with
confidence that its people would read
ily respond to the call of king and
country without compulsion, and the
precipitous developments that led to
the war found both the people and
the government unanimous in the ver
dict that Kitchener of Khartum was
practically no name but Colonel
ItOONCVOlt'F.
u Harmony In Silit,
Tho conventions tuwmhle without
isiny outward evidence of the possible
J tty of agreement. F.verything inui-
jeated that they are far apart.
I Not since the parly was born has
'". Ithere been such a lack of cohesive
Ot I 1, ,...l,t,. ,in,,ia. th.. .i.iiltl!l,inj ii
the oldest convention observers de
clare they never have seen such a
general lack of enthusiasm. There
never has been a convention, for w hich
so little had been arranged before
hand. They piling into their work
tomorrow witli practically everything
undone which hitherto ha been done
for them in the Inner councils of the
1 leaders.
1 1 tights Men Confident.
Hughes lenders, remaining confi
dent in their predictions thai the Jus
tice will be nominated on on early
live pronouncement from Mr. ltoose
velt. No one counts upon anything
from hlin favorable to Justice Hughes
'lit the da. rather was characterized
by expectation of a declaration con
trary 10 that interest.
Many believe Hint such an expres
sion would be lalul to Justice Hughes'
nomination, because, they say, it
would mean certain defeat at the
polls. Some, however, advocate tits
nomination even in the teeth of dis
approval by the former president.
This clement predicts the nominal ion
of the jurist regardless of circum
stances. Utile ll-'lpllno Among Moo
The progressive leader are not
hiding the fact that they are embar
rassed by 11 lack of control over their
delegates and they .fear that they can
not delay a nomination in their con
vention until after the republicans
have tic.ted. When told of thin Mima
tion republican managers have blunt
ly replied that this predicament Is the
progressives' own affair.
Although the progressive managers
have been confounded by their dele
gate getting out of hand, they have
capitalized the situation to the extent
of using it as an argument with tho
republican managers for an l-iiijy
nomination In the Coliseum. They
have told the republicans that they
fully realize uncontrollable finalities
among the ltoosevelt enthusiasts
which they fear will result in the
quick nomination of the colonel, with
the possibility of disrupting plans for
r reunited party.
Tho republican managcra reiterated
that they cannot be held responsible
for a condition which the progressive
lenders have created and which now
is plaguing them.
"t ' nisi watl vc I rog rttwl v Ism."
It developed today that there is u
growing- dinpiiHllion to evolve a con
servative progresslvism as opposed to
Ihe extremely radical elements which'
would iln everything for conscience's l
sake and nothing tor expediency. The
former (dement composed largely of
active business men are Inclined to
continue the efforts to bring about 1
nn affiliation with tho republicans.!
The other elements demand the uc-1
ceptance of Colonel ltoosevelt its the;
only basi.s of compromise. They go so
far as to say that even if Mr. Kuose
velt should endorse the enndidacy of
such as a man as Justice Hughes the
progressives would proceed with their
convention and nominate, not Colonel
ltoosevelt, but mime other leader, for
Instance Governor Hiram Johnson or
Clifford Pinchol,
The varying counsels thus Indicated
have be,; urged upon the former pres
ident by his followers, and It Is sur
mised that they have had much in
fluence in causing him to remain
silent. 1 luring the evening word whs
Irculaled that Colonel ltoosevelt had
3Iexican Held for
Activity on Rchalf
of United States
IftV UONIN JOUftNAk ftPtCIAl. i.ABe WIHfl
Chihuahua City, Mexico, June 6.
A Mexican giving his name as Luis
Sanchez Menu, was arrested by mili
tary aiilhoritles her today on a
charge of attempting to obtain prom
ikes from other Mexicanx to aid
Americans in the event of Aniertcnu
intervention. Military authorities any
Menu confessed and that lie Is being
held for tuial by court martial. Kf
forts to iibt.iin further details of the
cusp were futile.
IteportN ' here today from Major
I. epoldo Trevtno, in the l.agunu dis
trict, tell of the execution of I'edro
Jucciic7. and Arcadio l,unn, caught
looting rc.nchesi three weeks ago,
while General Jesus N'ovoii reported
from San Pedro that six men of the
de l.a Harra band, v.hu.i(. leader was
shot publicly at Kscalon last month,
hiv surrendered with their arms.
Other reports received from General
Igniuio K a in os said that after a short
skirmish handltH under the late VII-
II. 'itii general, Ucltran, who were
driven out of the ltlo Florid distrb
had taken refuge In the pussea of tho
Cerro del Virion,
DA
DRIVE
METS NICHOLAS
1 OFFICERS
AND UO MEN
SUFFRAGE LOSES
IN IOWA ELECTION
llr MORION JOURNAL ftCIAL ttABID Wll
l)es Moines, la., June 6. Virtually
completely unofficial returns: tonight
indicated that the coiistilutloiiol
amendment providing for woman suf
frage had been rejected by Iowa
voters at Mmnday's primary. Ninety
three counties out of ninety-nine in
the slate at ! o'clock gave for uf
frngo 187, 78(1, against 14:1, UK9, a dif
ference of fi.SO'.l voles.
tho man to lead In the recruiting and I
organization of the necesHary army.
.No Sentimental Clamor.
It wus not a sentimental clamor, for!
though Kitchener was proved a hero of ,
ballot, were llnlniv if their forces to-"
night, surveying the effect of tho
'drive upon them by the allied favorite
del-
sons and recruiting unpledged
cgstes from the lutcst arrivals.
Progressiva leaders, unwilling to Miy
if they could, whether the colonel
would support the Justice, continued
to carrv on their fleht for Air. ltoo.se-
many campaigns, his personality waVelt as their first choice. Toib.y
aa impenetrable ns hardened steel, 'George H. Cortelyou. a former mem
and he was not a hero, that could be ; her of the Roosevelt cabinet, arrived
loved; even the war office had no ).rp Hd Joined William Loeb, Jr., and
pronounced liking for him, but on all ;(i(,0IK(. von u, Mever, both former
sides there was profound respect for jmcmbera of the colonel's official faui
his military efficiency and for all hem,, 1,. eomnri-.. , i!i1.v,.n kli,.,.,iir
; nan none 10 exieuo ine uoiiiaius 01
BORAH AND TEDDY
HAVE TALK OVE
LONG Dl A
E
Muscovites Capture Much War
Material in New Offensive
Being Developed South of
Pripet River,
CZAR'S FORCES NOW
WELL EQUIPPED
With Roads in Good Condi
tion, Eventualities May Be
Expected at ' Any Moment,
It Is Predicted,
11 UOHIMm JOURNAL (MCIAA LMO WIMJ
From the . Pripet river southward
to the Huminiaii frontier the FUm
slans, according' to Petrograd, r
continuing to develop ftuccettsei
against Hie Germans and Austrian.
In th fighting along: thin front of
omo 2,10 mileH, the Russian already
have made prisoners of 480 officers
sod more than 25,000 men, and cap
tured 27 gum and more than 60
machine guns,
In thin offensive which In declared
to be n carefully co-ordinated move
ment, the Hussion are wild to have
11 plentiful supply of ammunition and
men, and, with the roads now in
good condition their maneuvers are
expected to develop swiftly, Th
number of tho Teutonic allien facing
the Ituwiana la reported to bo about
fiOO.ono men,
lloiiihiirdnniitN at Verdun.
Since the repulse of two German
1,1 li, 1,1 cv nttfult luillVAAn l,lt V aii
en ciiuiieu trim oiniiei lunmrieii nun . , . 1 n f r 1 , u.
manifested it disposition to follow the; IClahO bendlOl' HetUSCS tO Dl" lini1 ,)an,lou Monday niRht. the
. .... ... , . . iiKiiiuiK 111 iii"- .iiiuun rcmuii nm
vulee What Was Said biiti"e,,ln eioped mu anniery duei
r " . . iwtih the Fort Vaux-Dumloup Rector
expresses Confidence That:n '" t th greHtct violence.
11 ,,,,,, n ,, l No miiierial gains for either side are
Harmony Will Prevail, reported.
The Austria UN are still belnir held
(from further advances and with
IKY MORNINU JOURNAL RRCIAI, I.IARI0 WIRKI I heavy Instm... by the Italians, nccord-
Chlcago, June c, Hciiator llorahjing to Ttome. In tho Valdurarsa and
and Colonel ltoosevelt. talked over the I I'nsublo sectors and on the front
long distance' telephone tonight ih
spectlng cfforls 'o bring '.bout liivr
mony beiwecn "iho 'republican' and
progressive pintles. Sinotor Moral!
the Ilritish empire,
Hy mere link Kitchener happened
to be in Kngland on one of the com
paratively rare visits that he had paid
to London during his long career
abroad, when the Kuropean war brone
out. Ho had Just come home from
service as Hritish agent in Kgypt, had
republican con
u
committee within th
vcnllon Itself.
The republican malingers, pressed
by the progressives to hurry their
nominations ami disclose their candi
date If they hope to bid for Colonel
ltooscvelt's support and prevent a
lirogresKive ticket from taking the
field, have been given notice by Sena-
members,
while Sir
Ilrigadier
Hugh James O'Ueirne;
Frederick Donaldson and
(leneial Kllcr.-thuw of the
THE WEATHER
1 1 :.u 1 .... .1 -.... u
miiiUli'v .f iiwiiiti(itiM tt'frp knnwn i h " unm.
1,. hi. inpri uhr.m th niiii.m i niiltl lit-I WnriHhl Hl'itlUl Iul)IIO,
Hj. r.fl'.ivM t. Ii.e.i
The fact that Ihe cruiser Hamp-)hy f 11 Mr 'ap " hrtr hi'ml"
... . . . ., than I hey realized, and one that
.hire, with hot ween 200 and J00 m en 1 imgpr Um fhfry px rtltli
had sunk was generally accepted hu( H wa( to ,)p fat,w1 wi(n ,,n(lr
simply us an unfortunate detail m confidence, and he, unsmiling, almost
these days when a thousand go under j iKo n dehumanized machine, set about
almost as an incident of warfare. Ito make things hum. He had sc.irce
(inlcr lxnit SuofsMir. !' moved Into Whitehall street when
1 he made numerous changes in the
I ne itifig l ame 110m o innui
sent for Premier Asipntn when nesaj(I o bp honeycombed with nodal
beard the news. The war council j ,md political favoritism,
held a long session. Naturally, spec- After dispatching a. few hundred
illation regarding Kitchener's sncces-thousand regulars to France and Bel-
began immediately. AmonKKi"m 10 ncip ran me oiirusnuiK
discuss...! were David I.loyd-1 Germans, the war secretary began re-
.rd Derby and the chief of," T' " " ' , '
the imperial staff. Sir William ''"-Pre(I wllh sirnf, and posters urging
erlson. Hot whether a mililaiy ,nan j younff men to join the colors. Kitch
or a civilian will take the war office enPr WPnt through the. country super
has not yet been decided. intending the drilling of the army.
Karl Kitchener met death at a 1110- From time to time were reports indl-
...ui..i. ...;n i,,.,,,..,. v,iu Mniiiii. ,n eating his failure to get the number
in Mrltish history. He was almost the
cceu.- ;lii hi, 00m iMim KiiiK neoige. tor Hmoot that thev can expect no
and was being talked of as viceroy of -nomination In the republican conven
In.lia. Within a few hours after tion ,efore Friday. Senator Penrose,
Ionian. 1 s ueciumuon 01 war, isiicnen- :ttddressing the republican state dele
ner wus appointeu secretary or mate 'KHtlon today, declared that nnmliia
lor war ami immeuieteiy iook nm Itinnsj for president and vice president
...uuifto ui. in" 01. y.ii.-iii o' ;wi not l;e made before late on Fat
wornea uay nniii nigni to overcome urday.
the handicap which the central pow- ''" t.olns IWnic f.li.U'd
II!, II-. 1 "n LI, 1,1 111,- III..M.I ,,,, ,. ,, ,
j iii ...ij.ti v .in t.,- n.ii.1 nuiiii
deVelopinent.s of the day is that there
ihau been n lenernl t ii?hten low in the
He grimly told the lirltlsh people lunrinna ni-nni-..iii.u m ..,. ,.,.n
advice of the nrogressives-al-uny-cost
and the general opinion wus that'
nothing would be heard from Oyster
Hay fa v, liable to uny republican as
piring to the nomination.
lui'gvr Than . o. P. Mccling.
The iiiicrinlrollnble quality of the
in ogressivo convention lies In the fact
that in point of numbers It is a. third
again as largo us the republican con
vention. Many of the delegates to the pro
gressive convention are unschooled or
averse to ihe ways of parliamentary
practice tint! political management,
i,.7.u....,.i, ..ii. i . ..., ..Pi.. to u.,in.. would not discuss the conversation he
,... thev oi.ei.K- di'vamoovinir '"''' saying that he and Ihe colonel i
the dealing's of the progressive lead- exchang. d views and that he was
ers wllh the republican managers in i ""'Iter satisfied with the situation than
thdr efforts to mako pence. ho l''"1 ll,l'h before he lajked with
Two Volets W illi Hut i isiiigld Vote." Oyst. r May.
In order to bring large delegations; When II became known there had
to the convention the progressive ! been a telephone conference it was
strength has in many cases been split reported the senator told the colonel
in half votes, making double t hit that he believed Hughes would ho nom
nuniber of delegates to be controlled Inated early by Ihe republicans and
from a single stale. As one of the i that he hoped such n program would
innnakTcrs expressed it, many of I he; be satisfactory. This report was re
progressive delegates have two voices : pented to .Senator llorah, who de
fer their .me vote, cbired that It was not a true repre-
It Is pluln tonight that all the ar- j Bentutlon of what had taken place.
gumentH of the progressive leaders to "T can't tell you what occurred,"
hurry the balloting In the Coliseum jsald the senator. "1 wish I could, but
have failed to change Ihe plans of the jit lH Impos-dUe."
republican managers a particle. Moetl!iK Willi Perkins.
I susul Procedure Pmlk'lod. I u , , . . .
At on,, of the conferences on the L ,The telephone conference took
subject Senator Sinool served notice 'Wee shortly after a meeting late to
on George W Perkins to expect nolh- "'K"t between Senator Horuh und
neonte . i eiKins, as me result or
f.or
those
(.Seorgf
lor the test of strength now so near.
The supporters of Hughes have begji
counting noses.
Speaking for them, fleorgo If
Hitchcock eslininted the Juslice
would receive about 300 votes on the
first ballot. He said reports hud been
most encouraging and predicted thai
Ihe. tfnfrhes vote wimlil' prmu r.mMlv
nt ,l,rt ,'fl... ..l.li.l. ...nn I - . i '
'",r"m"' "-. """ "... alter the plellminary ballot.
I'loilda for llngties.
Florida decided during the day to
cat her solid vole for Hughes and to
stay with him to the end. A poll of
Kansas is reported to give nine votes
lor Hughes.
f rom .New Jersey ungues managers
expect to get at least seventeen votes,
the Ithode Island delegation of ten is
reported solid for Hughes, and sub
i slant In 1 gains were claimed In Con
ineeticut and other states.
If a ballot could be taken tonight
the consensus of the several political
that it would be
of men he wanted, but within a year (managers Indicated
..i,.-, I,,,- ... vi.. ...i laoout as follows:
iiuitn oiiiciany announced in I'uriin-
ment. that about 3,000,000 men had
enlisted in the Cnlted Kingdom alone,
in the
only member of the government who
Hum the beginning confi.Vnlly as
serted that this would bo a long war
his lowest estimate was three years iand almost another million
und he insisted that the government I overseas dominions.
should make its plans accordingly. ! His Censorship l'nKpular.
, . , i Kitchener, however, was tho object
Army Oriniatio.. Program;. jof no ,u,' cr.l8nu Th,.rt. W11S
The organization of the enormous i mm.h KI-umbling because of the strict
THE WKATHKIl 1Y1KKCAST.
rifrivor, Colo., June 6. New Mex
Wednesday generally fair ex
"HI probable local showers north
.!', portion, cooler east portion ;
'nursdny fulr.
CITT BANK CT.VijUlINGfl.
The Day in Congress
sesnioii.
SKXATK.
Meets Thursday.
I'1 1 1 a. m.
US!"''1 diplomatl.
'"Jpnatlon. bill.
and consular
p. m, to 1 1 a. in.
new Britihh army is well under way.
The general staff, Hinder flen. Sir
William Kobertson's direction, accord
ing to the general belief, has well in
hand the task of working out the de
tails which Kitcheners brain "as
largely instrumental in planning and
launching.
There is no evidence to show
whether the Hampshire was torpe
doed by a submarine or struck by a
mine Many ships have been passing
between Kuii.sia and Oreat f.iitnin
over the same route since the port
of Archangel was opened.
The official news was a greater
en r,,rii Hum it would otherwise bavoi
been because no one knew that Karl
Kitchener bad left Kngland.
A memorial service will be held In
St. Paul's.
The nation was depressed and
urieved at the news of Oeneral Town
shetid's surrender at Kut-EI-Amara,
censorship he imposed on newspapers
and his utter disregard for war cor
respondents. Notwithstanding this,
the Hritish newspapers gave him no
tive support prior to May 13, 1915.
During the winter months the war
secretary had announced the "big
drive" would begin about the first of
May. The buttle of Nueve Chupelle
occurred In May, und Kngland be
lieved this was the beginning of the
!... Hrive Khupllv (iflprwnrrl rennrls
,.."...1,H I'm. Uinil Hi . I Hi., ilrlvn lull) '
halted owing to a shortage of muni
tions, especially high-explosive shells.
A section of the Trfin.lon press then
declared that Kitchener had made a
serious mistake In providing large
oiiiintilies of shrapnel and insufficient.
high -explosives. Newspaper
went so far as to suggest his being
displaced (is war secretary, but the
majority of the papers defended him.
It wan agreed that the raising of a
big army and supplying munitions at
the same time was too Brest H tusk
(liiBliuuasl !' I.
As It Now Stands.
Hughes, ac I ; W eeks, 100; Roose
velt, 18; Cummins, M; Fairbanks, M;
Morton, 70; Sherman, HX; Knox, 51;
Hoot, 42; Jji. Follelte, 28; scattering,
f7. Total, IIK3.
This excludes two delegates from
the District of Columbia, who were
unseated by the national committee
but will take their case before the
credentials committee.
The allies generally conceded that
-Mr. Hughes was In tho lead but the
fact that he occupies this udvun
tageous position was not allowed to
stand in the way of their efforts to
hold their forces in hand. Their plan
is to prevent all early stampede to the
Hughes column. In the hope that de
lay may bring into the situation some
new element, which would weaken htm
and promote the prospects of ome
one of the other candidates.
Several Ibillots l Hctcd.
All of the candidates were receiving-
favorable assurances from their
friends, and in view of the situation
thnu rrnnlcil ttiA i-i,i,.rii I iiiilnlnn In
attacks j t ht several ballots w ill precede the
nomination. Tins opinion Is based
upon the supposition that no surprises
will he sprung, and that all hands
will he content to prolong the uncer
tainty. Much speculation has been Indulged
In with regard to the effect of a posl- 1
Ing but the usual procedure In tho re
publican convention beginning with
th,. assembly tomorrow ut which Sen- i
ator Harding, the temporary chair
man, will deliver Ihe keynote speech,
state delegations will report and an'
adjournment will be taken to give thai
committees nn opportunity to get
,i.,. ,,, ... l
As a matter of fact, while these
routine procendlngs In the republican
convention urP going on, the proceed
ings at the suine lime in the progres
sive convention will disclose how far
the P.oosevclt leaders uro being press
ed for an Immediate nomination of
the colonel.
Demonstration I'xpwtKd.
Tho keynote speech at the progres
sive convention is expected by many
to be tiitumount to placing Colonel
ltoosevelt in nomination. Many ex
pect a, tremendous demonstration
there threatening to sweep aside all
attempt fit delay. How far this view
prevails Is illustrated by toe fact that
Uifford Plnchot, Victor Murdoch,,
Henry J. Allen and other progres
sives at a eonlereiice agreed that
noihing short of a demand for delay
from Colonel Kooscvcit himself
should stand in the way of his imme
diate nomination.
In all the negotiations for harmony
between the two sides, the republican
managers consider that tncir position
has been strengthened by the fact
lias im-i-ii m i ciifti n. in., ..-j ... ......
that a" along they have been ready ticket
that conference, the senator expressed
the opinion that tho republican con
vention should now proceed to make
a nomination In tin orderly manner
und select a candidate who could
gather a majority of the delegates
after balloting In Ihe customary
manner.
"What we must do now," he said,
"Is to proceed just as we would have
done bad there been no third parly.
Harmony Is to bo di'Sired but we can
not be expected to descend to barter
ing of our dignity mid independence.
"I believe that ultimately We will
have harmony. If we go ahead and
name the candidate Hint our free del
egates think Is best fitted to carry
the burden of Ihe campaign, peace
will come. We will make a good
platfnitn; nn with which no fault
can he found I y any faction of the
party, and we will draw to our sup
port many Volets who left us four
years ago."
Henulr punih snys thai at Hie mo
ment .lustic,. Hughes Is leading and
present Indications point to Ids nom
ination. Willi Hughes as the nomi
nee, and Willi a sane progressive plat
form, Ihe senator said he thought
progressive republicans would flock
to the republican banner. He even
thought it possible the progressives
might later withdraw their third
to present for discussion u list of can
didates, any one of whom could com
mand the support of the others. This
fact admittedly has been embarrnsrtng
to the progressives who found them
selves laid upon to the charge of re
fusing to consider any other name
than Colonel Hooseveltg. To offset
this condition, the name of Senator
l.a Follelte was brought forward. The
republicans Immediately rejected it and
charged the progressives Willi Insin
cerity hi presenting the name of a
candidate they were unwilling to ne
ed themselves,
Morion's Name Suggested.
At that point the progissivc man
agers turned the tables and demand
ed that the republicans bring forward
a name, "j ne repuiuicans responueu
if Ihe put one
the ntlitude of
republican party
In Ihe field,
Ihe nominee
satisfy their
; NIH1UMI
I of the
demands respecting campuign Issues
Harmon v ProsiMTtN Height,
A lew hours after .Mr. Moruh's rc
Jmarks on the situation had been
'made, Mr. Perkins emerged from a
conference with .Senator Uxlge, siull
ilngly declaring Unit the outlook for
! harmony between the two convention
was brighter.
Simultaneously, il was announced
that tho progressive plan In print full
page advertisements throughout the
country tomorrow In behalf of Col
onel ItooMevcll had been abandoned.
Neither Mr. Perkins nor none of
the other progressives who were 111
the Conference would discuss details
between the Poslna nnd Astico riv
ers, vleloiK Austrian Mt.vk -fcuve
heeri put down and the' Italians hv
even gained soma ground against the;
Austrluns on the western slopes of
Monle Cenglo.
Turkish Offensive Quelled.
The Turks In Asia Minor, near
Hnlburt and ErzlngaM, have again
attempted an offensive fljrulnst the
llusslnns, but Petrograd says their
efforts failed. A successful raid hail
been made, by the ltussluns against
the Turks In the vicinity of Khsnl
klnl, near the Persian border north
east of Mngdad.
Field Marshal Kitchener, the lirlt
lsh secretary for war, and several
members of hl.s staff, have been lost
at sea off the Orkney Islands by
the sinking of the Mrltish emluoi.
Hampshire, on which Karl Kitchener
wns making a voyngo to Hussln
on n special mission to Knlperor
Nicholas, and probably also with th)
Intention of visiting the battle front
In Hussla where lh great offensive
ngiiliist the Teutonic: allies has been
begun by the Russians.
So l.tr as has been ncn ili1
there were no survivors nf ihn rilu.
aster and It seems probable; that be
tween 200 and 300 men met their
death when the Hampshire either
struck a mine or wus torpedoed.
BERLIN iTPORfsTATIO
OF LOSS 100 TO 24
IRT NORM! JOURNAL SR3IAI. LIAM. ,M
Merlin. Saturday, Juno 3 (by Wire
less to the Associated ProsN via 8ay
vllle. Delayed In Transmission.)
The extent and character of the Gor
man victory of Jutland are Indicated
further apart from the Oernuin re
ports, by Mrltish admissions of losses,
showing that 100,000 tons of main
units to huve been destroyed com
pared with some 24,000 for the Oer
mans. Thi Knglish losses, moreover.
Involved some of the most modern
ships, while the only really modern
Oerman warship lost wa the email
Wiesbaden.
In the absence of further details of
the fighting naval circles, are con
vinced the victory was due to superior
German strategy, seamanship, marks
manship and probably in no small de
gree to the nirshlp scout service. Tho
tremendous effectiveness of the tor
pedo ii H a weapon in tho hands of the
(lermsns also has been demonstrated
clearly.
suggesting former Senator Murton n',r "V hat led to the n biindnninent
Lv
of Ohio, arguing that he could unite
the support of all the favorite sons,
draw strength from the pacifist ele
ment and has Incurred no enmities
among tho foreign-norn voters. un
objections of the progressive mana
gers to Mr. Murton were voiced by
Jovernor Johnson of California.
Gil FAT WUTAIX PF.NTKN
LOSS OF M'll.MAMNE
London Wool Anclion.
London, June 6. A moderate se
lection of li.H.'dl bales was offered St
Ihe wool auction sales today. There
was a strong demand for merinos und
good cross-bre.ls, but wasty cross-
breds were neglected, (lelonff greasy
sold at in. 4d.
of the advertising program.
"on the eve of the two conven
tions," Mr. Perkins said, "It Is my
Judgment that they are going to start
off with friendly relations which ar
gue well for a favorable result."
Tho proposal to form official con
ference committees In the two eon
ventions, for the purpoc of discus
sion of the republican and progressive
agreement probably will l taken up
In the conventions soon, Mr. Perkins
declared.
Humors that Colonel ltoosevelt had
advised his supporters that he would
not muke a race on the progressive
ticket alone, were denied by Mr. Perkins.
London, June 8. The following of
ficial statement regarding the North
sea bnttle was Issued hero today;
"nie Herman admiralty in an of
ficial statement issued June 2 stated
that umong other casualties a British
submarine, was sunk in the course of
the battle during the afternoon and
night of May 21. All Mrltish sub
marines at sea on that date huvo now
returned. II must therefore he as
sumed l tint, If any Importance Is to
bo attached to the Herman official
statement the submarine sunk was
an enemy submarine. This vessel
should be added to the list of Ger
man losses, slated In the Mrltish ad
miralty communication of June 4."
FOREST FIRES ARE -
RAGING IN MEXICO
m MORNtW JOURNAL eiAl. UHI WlRR.
Del Mlo, Tex., .June . Forest
fires sre raging in tho Santa. Kos
mountains in Mexico, seventy miles
west of here, presumably a result of
recent dry weather and high temper
atures. An area of forty square mile
has been burned. The Del Rio sec
tion U covered by dense smoke.
'7"'
