weather
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
May 31, 27.70.
MBJT e
Generally
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
.1 N2S5n 2ilS2nvE cents.
1 j
VOL 19, NO. 9.
BISBEE, ARIZONA WEDNESDAY MORNING, JUNE 7, 1916.
HO SESSION
mitt
if Lr 8
KITCHENER'S
DEATH HI
SEA STUNS
Secretary For War And His
Staff Sink On Torpedoed
Ship Near Orkney Island
Emoute To Russia
WHOLE EMPIRE
MOURNS FOR HERO I
Is Regarded As Allies Great
est Less Of War. Sir Will
iam Robertson, Chief Of
Staff May Be Successor
(By Review Leased Wire.) j
. LONDON, June 6. Admiral Jellicoe, j
commander of the British graad fleet,
today reported to the admiralty that!
the British cruiser Hampshire, with
Karl Kitchener, minister of war, and!
his sUff. was lost off the coast 'jf the
r- -' " ut".' i
Kitchener, as his staff, were Hugh
James O'Beirne, former councellor of
the British embassy at Petrograd and
former minister at Sofia; O. A. Fitz
gerald, Earl Kitchener's private milM
tary secretary; Brig. General Eller
shaw, and Sir Frederick L'jnaldson.
Earl Kitchener was going to Rus
sia at-the request of the Russian gov
ernment. ' '
An official statement says that Earl
Kitchener was to have discussed im
portant military and, financial ques
tions with Emperor Nicholas.
It is probable that Sir William Rob
ertson, of the imperial army staff,
who is in London, will become the
new secretary of war.
GREAT BLOW.
LONDON, June 6. The news that
Earl Kitchener, secretary of war and
his staff, who were proceeding to
Russia aboard the cruiser Hampshire,
were lost off the Orkney Islands last
night, was the most stunning blow
Great Britain has received since the
war began.
This is the. second shock the coun
try has sustained within a week. The
other was when the newspapers ap
peared Friday evening with the- tirst
intimat.'jn of "the naval battle in the
North Sea. in the form of a list of
the ships lost, with virtually no inti
mation that there was aay compensa
tion In the way of enemy Tosses. The
bulletin telling of the death of Kit
chener gave the country even a great
er shock.
Kitchener was the one outstanding
personality whom the pt'jple talked of
and believed in as a great man, not
withstanding newspaper attacks which
at a former period of the war began to
undermine his popularity. The tele
gram from Admiral Sir John JellitVe,
commander of the fleet, giving , the
bare facts, was received at the admir
alty about 11 o'clock this morning.
The first official announcement was
issued at at'jut 1:30 in the afternoon.
Such news, however, cannot be kept
entirely secret even for an hour. Be
fore noon rumors were spreading, and
the new, bureaus were busy with in
quiries. They were told there was
nothing in it.
Wild Excitement.
When the announcement finally was
issued the fact spread about London
and some time, before the newspapers
could get into the streets, there was
a crowd about the stock exchanges
which required police reserves to
deal with. The police told every one
to move on; that there was no liuth
At the same time another mass of
pt'jple was assembling about the gov
ernment offices in Whitehall. All the
windows of the war office had the
curtains lowered. That confirmed the
rumor beyond doubt. Other crowds
gathered ai'ouud the newspaper of
fices. When the boys came out w;t'i
an armload of extras the peonle fell
on them and fought for the papers.
In the course of the afternoon the
flags on all buildings were fllown at
half staff.
The foreign office was suddened by
the loss of its most able members,
Hugh O'Beirne while Sir Frederick
Donaldson and Brig. General Kller
shaw. of the ministry of munitions,
were known to be men whom the na
tion could little afford to lose.
300 Lost
The fact that the cruiser Hampshire
with between 200 and 300 men had
sunk was generally accepted simpiy
as an unfortunate detail in these days
when a thousand go under almost ss
an incident of warfare.
The King came from Windsor and
sent for Premier Asqiiith when he
(Concluded on rage Seven)
- YUAN SHI KAI DIES
PEKING. China, June 6.
Yuan SJii Kai. President of the
Chinese Republic, died today.
Premier Tuan Chi Jai immedi
ately advised LI Yuan Hung,
he vice president of his suc-
cession to the presidency.
' Yuan Shi Kai had been ill for
several days with stomach
, troubles, which was followed
by a nervous breakdown.
Quiet prevails today in the
capital. The death of the Pres-
ident apparently solves the
heated political crisis. Li Yuan
Hung's succession to the presi-
dency meets the demands of
fie leaders in the southern
provinces.
Recently Elected Aldermen
And Mayor Take Office.
Many Appointments . To
City Offices Made
WHITNEY IS NAMED
attornf y for rrrv
McNeish, City Engineer; Shep
1 O - V
para, oamtary inspector;
Thomas, Magistrate; O. B.
Thomas, Sexton
Mayer I. C. E. Adam, D. .
City Marshal James Allison, O.
Street Supt C. A. Bailey, D.
Cicy Clerk M. L. Butler, R.
ALDERMAN.
Ward One Dan Walsh, D.,
Chat. Holtz.R.
Ward Two Jake Earickson, D.,
R. A. Davidson, D.
Ward Three B. T. Watkins.R,
Wm. Delbridge, D.
COUNCILMANIC COMMITTEES.
. Finance Holtz, Walsh, Wat
kin.. Fire and Building Delbridge
Holtz and Walsh.
Light Delbridge, Davidson,
Earickson.
Cemetery Walsh, Holtz, Ear
ickecn. Health Watkins, Delbridge,
Davidson.
Police Holtz, Watkins, Earick
son. APPOINTIVE OFFICES.
City Attorney L. B. Whitney.
Sanitary Inspector A. E. Shep
pard. City Engineer J. S. McNeish.
City Magistrate Frank E.
Thomaa.
. City Electrician J. C. Mc
Cuniff. Fire Chief Barney Norton.
Bldg. Inspector Barney Norton.
Sexton Cemetery O. B. Thomaa
HOLD-OVER APPOINTMENTS.
City Physician R. E. Heren
deen. City Sealer J. J. Patton.
Eisbee's recently elected city coun
cil,, comprising Vf four Democrats
'- (Continued on Page Five.)
Ed Kinsey, one of the most popular
men In the camp, and a shift -boss at.
the Gardner shaft of the Copper
Queen, was seriously and possibly
fatally stabbed early this morning as!
he lefl the shaft for his home after
his day'swork was done.
He was wounded In the abdomen '
and the right breast, and now lies at
the C'jpper Queen hospital where three
surgeons ae attenrding him. At 3:30
this morning the doctors had not
fully determined the extent of the
man's injuries and would give no de
cision as to his chances of recovery.
Word from the Gardner shaft said t
that Kinsey had just left the edge of
the shaft and disappeared in the dark
ness no more than a minute when he
came running back to the camp hold-j
Ing his side and saying he was stabbed
The boys at the shaft lent what aid
tJiey could and hurried the wounded
man to the hospital
Later they said Kinsey had said he
had heard some one running towards 1
him through the darkness and turned j
Just In time to receive a thrust of the
assailant's knife in the side, and in the '
ensuing scuffle he was again wounded j
in the abdomen.
No one about the shaft could ac
NEW COUNCIL IS
IN CHARGE OF i
THE CITY'S
BUSINESS
ED. KINSEY IS SI
CDMiNG FROM
jjTWENTY FlVEfj
1 ns I
:f nunTiinrn
i UHriunru
Great Russian Offensive
Launched Over 250
Front Is Developing
Enormous Movement
Mile
Into
MANY TEUTON GUNS
ARE CAPTURED
With Flenty Of Ammunition'
And Good Roads, Russian
Hordes Sweep Everything .
Before Them
LONDON. June C From the Pri
pet over southward to the Rumanian i
frontier the Russians. According to j
reirograu, are cm:uuiiiK iu ui.-t-uiij
success against the Germans and
Austrians. In the fighting along this
front of some 250 miles, the Russians
already have made prisoners of 4SO
officers and more than 25.001 men end
IIIUIlv KU1I3. Ill lit. a iM'riiniic, viiiiwi .
is declared to be a carefully , co-ordi-i
nated movement the Russians are said j
to be plentifully supplied with ammu-
nition and men with the roads now in
good condition and their maneuvers
are expected to develop quickly. The
number of the Teutonic allies facing
the Russians is' reported to be "about erty-six persons were killed in Mon
600.000 men. , ! day's storrs, when series of torna-
Since in? repulse of two German . . .. ... ,
III la II 1 I i Ai vov Mrinrcii i l u
iand WamlouD Monday r.isht, the fight-'
ir.g in the Verdun region has .again
'develoned into artillery duels with the
.Fort Vaux-Damloup sector the center
of the greatest violence. No mate
rial gains for either side are reported.
The Austrians are still being held J
1 from further advance and with heavy
losses bv the Italians according to
: Rome. Ia the Valle Darn and Pasu
; bio sectors and on the front between
; Bosina and Astico rivers, vicious A us
rian attacks have been put down ana i
....... , .
the Italians have gained some ground i
aga:nt the Austrians on the westerti
' n 1 n rt As n t M n tr t a f i rr i r
! ZZ n- V n :
; The Turks in Asia Minor, near Tlai-
. Durt ana t.rvingan, nave again at
tempted an offensive against the Rus
sians ntrainst the Turks in the -vlcin-
ity of Khanikin, near the Persian bor
' der northeast of Bagdad.
MEXICAN -STAMP
j COUNTERFEITER CAUGHT.
EL PASO, Texas, June 6. An ex
tensive plot for the counterfeiting of
! i arranza postal stamps has been dis- counted for.
covered In Mexico Sity, the leader ar-
rested and false stamps in the amount! KANSAS CITY. June 6. The num
;of six million pesos sired, according ! ber of deaths in the tornadoes that
to information received from the Mex
ican capital today by the local Mexi
can consulate.
The message said that other arrests
of trying t oca use a financial panic
while the government is retiring the
old issue paper money aer being ar
rested and prosecuted
dispatches.
according to ;
j
GUNER SHAFT
count for the attack on Kinsey who is
regarded a sone of the most popular
men in the camp. The police ofticers
were notified and went over the
ground carefully .finding many evi
dences of the scin'fle. Where the as
sailant disappeared to could not be
learned this morning.
Kinsey is a man about .43 years old
and has devoted the whole prime of
liii flic to the camp and its best in
terests. Word was sent to Mrs. Kin-1
Bey and children who are now on 'the
Pacific coast, informing them of the.
attack. ' I
SIX KILLED IN
RIO GRANDE WRECK
COLTON. t'tah. June 6. Six men'
were killed and five others injured:
when part of the Denver and Rio
Grande passencer train number 15. '
westbound left -the rail and crashed
into a freieht train on a siding early
this morning. The injured men were
not seriouslv hurt. No passengers '
suffered injuries. '
MARINES IN BATTLE
WASHINGTON. June C
. American marines and Haitien
gendarmes killed the revolu
tonnrv leaders Melellu and Co
dio and nine of their men in'a
fight near Fonda Verretes Sun
day. No mention of American
casualties is made in the state
department despatch today re
porting the incident. The out
laws were killed in a desperate
efl'ort to escape when cornered
and remnants of the band were
being .pursued by the marines '
and gendarmes when the de
spatch was sent.
TfiDtiflnn iiiPTi
UnilMJin Ul HI
TOTAL 107 DEAD
Arkansas, Missouri, Mississip
pi, Tennessee And Illinois
All Swept By Monster
" ind Storm
TENNESSEE BOAT
J CFMi'C ivrru ernnr
j , . CJliNfO V 1 1 tt oLUKt
'
Every County In Arkansas Is
VisitecL Property Losses
And Crops Damaged To Ex
tent Of Millions.,
(By Review Lcasfd Wire.)
LITTLE ROCK, Ark June 6.Sev-
to end.
More than 300 are reported injured
jand many of these, it is said, cannot
survive.
Heber Springs, a resort town ot
1 1.000 inhabitants on the Missour and
', North Arkansas railway suffered
most severely. Twenty-five persons
were killed and more than 100 in
jured. Eight of the injured are be
lieved likely to die. The storm swept
up a steel hillside in the western
inert tf Ilia I.U'n Jaliinlluhlnn 4. '....,.
f . ... . , s . ... ,
homes. Most of the dead were kil ed
, .. : , ,K, K .
; luc uiiin i i iiicii iiuiiii-a. II. la
; feared that the list will grow as com-
munication is restored
MEMPHIS. Tenn., June 6. At least
thirty persons are believed to have
been drowned when the river packet
Eleonore capsized in the Mississippi
twenty miles north of Memphis last
night in the storm which swept the
central Mississippi valley. Of ap
proximately 75 passengers and crew .
on the stean.er when it was overturn-j
ed by the wind only 4g have been ac
swept through Arkansas, Missouri,
Mississippi, Tennessee and Illinois
grew t'jnight as the belated reports
were received from the communities
that suffered in the storm.
Late tonight the deaths of 107 per
sons ha dbeen reported, a number of
other persons were unaccounted ijr
and believed lost and hundreds had
Continued on Page Six.)
.1
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO, June 6. Dudley Field
Malone, t'jllector of the port of New
York, roundly scoulded members of
the Congressional I'nion for Woman
Suffrase at tonight's sess.'jn at the
Woman's Party convention of that',
party for what he termed "hypocriti
cal criticism of big men in public
lire." ' j
The session was set aside immedi
ately for speeches by representatives (
of all 'jf the political parties who
were invited to tell why they merited
the support of enfranchised women. ;
! Daniel I'oliug had spoken for tue Pro-;
1 hibitioti party: A lent Renson l.r the j
Socialist party: fornier Governor j
I Chas, S. Osborne, of Michigan, and I
John Harris Hamilton for the Repub-'
lican party wh'-n Mr. Ma.'.me began
i his address. He. referred to "mean
I criticism" of the President that ap
: peared in newspapers the last . two
days, as coming from the Congres
sional I'nion and told the women who
filled the Blacksfjne Theatre that
they were takiug the wrong method
to obtain suffrage from the adtntn-!
1 istration.
"President Wilson Is not inspired
MPUWU
suffragettes make demands
and get roundly sgoded
i EFFORTS
j CHI
SEVELT IS
SILENT BUT :
HIS 001
Colonel Refuses To Divulge
His Move If Republicans
Name Hughes For The
Presidency
PROGRESSIVES HOLD
BIG LOVE FEAST j
Glory In Birth Of Third Party
And Eulogize Its Founder
T. R., As The Author Of
Americanism
(By Review Leased Wire'
OYSTER BAY. X. Y, June 6 Theo-
doro Roosevelt denied positively to-
llimil LIIUl lit" IlilU ll-ll-UIIIFlll-U IU I Ml '
I 10 i n)-
gress.ve leaders at ( hicaeo aniliorii-
mg :nem to m.Tnina.e n rn w "
presidency at th convention of that
n n n
71 1 1 U U
GOES 01
pnrtv ir uie uepuoncans nan.ea jus- . R ,.omtWvou orrIved nere and joined The varying counsels thus indicated
tice Hughes ,y L'eb Jr. and Geo. von 1. Mever have been urged uron the former pres-
I haven t sent any such message' fornier menlberg of the foIonViw .Went by his followers, and if i sur
al M. l otonrt Roosevelt declared leM fawiy , colnprise a Uoie- ".is.Ml that they have had n.u. h influ
empliatically. Velt stering comhiittee within the '-nre in causing him to remain silent.
He said he had nothing whatever Reub.n convPnlion itseif. The Re- Turinc the cveruns word was ritu-
to say in regaro to tie po.mcat suu-
ation and he declined" to comment on !
the speech of Justice Hughes at Wash- nomjnaljon an) dis(.loite their vice of the ITogressiv-at-any-cost.
tngton last niaht. date's name if they hope to win Colo nil the general opinion was that
CHICAGO, June 6. The first of the 'xe Roosevelt's siippoit and )revent nothing would be heard from Oyster
Progressive demonstrations which are the Progressive ticket from taking the Bay favotatle to any Republican as
planned for every afternoon during t jPH piring to the nomination.
he convention period was held to
day in the same room, in the same ho
tel in which the Progressive party
was born four years ago,
Victor Murdock presided and
speeches insisting on Colonel Roose
velt as the candidate whom the .Re
publicans should accept were made
by Governor Johnson. John M. Par
ker of Louisiana. Henry Allen of Kan
sas. Jat'es R. Garfield of Ohio and
Murdock.
Many members oft the national Re
publican League who had been using
remained in their chairs through the
Progressive meeting.
"I'll not deny that there is a split
in the Progressive party," said Mr.
Allen. "Some of the delegates want
to nominate Colonel Roosevelt the
first thing tomorrow morning."
Governor Johnson asserted that as
the Republicans have adopted the is
sues of Americanism they must ac
cept the maker of the Issue. Mr. Mur
dock and Mr. Garfield earnestly ad
dressed the Roosevelt boomers to -get
out and work among the Republican
delegates.
by a spirit of meanness.' he said.
Mr. Malone attempted to tell why
he Va)red the enactment of federal
suffrage legislation. "Tell that , to
the President," said a voice from the
audience. "
"1 shall be happy to tell it to the
President." replied Mr. Malone, "hut
I shall tell it in a tone of respect."
Gifford Piiichot and VictVr Murdock
spoke for the Progressive party and
Mrs. Harriet Stanton ISlatch asked
Murdock 'if his expressions of friend
ship were deep enough to fight ijr a
suff rase plank in the Republican
platform if the two parties were con
solidated. "I certainly will," said Mr. Murdock.
"You do not say that sincerely."
said Mrs. Rlatrh. who fold the dele
gates they must be prepared to tight
any party that does not give, the
suffragists the help they wish before
the next election.
"I pledge niyseir to gather together
500,000 women in Kansas Mho will
work with me ai'ong these lines," she
said. i
"1 nledite mvself to raise ' 1500.000
to carry on this work." said Mrs. O.
II. P. Belmont.
TO FIND PBESIDENTIAL
DATE SUITABLE TO BOTH THE
PARTIES APPEAR TO HAVE FAILED
Bull Moo& Have Heads Set On Roosevelt, Despite Republi
cans' Endeavor To Compromise On Any One Of Half
A Dozen Candidates, While Hughes' Boom Continues
. To Grow, And Favorite Son Candidates Rally To Him
ROOSEVELTERS ORGANIZE STEERING
COMMITTEE INSIDE a O. P. CONVENTION
Republican Convention Is Reported "Up In The Air," With
out Leadership, Without Program, Floundering About
With No Set Goal Other Than To Nominate Anybody
Rather Than T. R., Who Can Swing Progressives
CHICAGO. June 6. The Republican and the Progressive nation.-il con
vcntions( both assemble tomorrow wuhout cny indication that the leader!)
Imve found the common ground on which they honed to establish unity.
Three days of almost constant conferences have failed to bring the Re
publicans and the Progressiva to an agreement on a man for presenting.
A half dozep names, any one of whi -h i- acceptable to Republican!. havt
tffn rejected by the Progressives w'.:o have proposed practically n.i name
by Co'onel Roosevelt's.
The conventions assemble without any outward evidence of the possir
bility of agreement. Ever) thing in '.iratrd that 'hey are far apart.
Not since the party was horn his there been sucht lack of cohesive
leadershin among the Republicans. There nvcr has been a convention
for which-so little had ben ananged before. hand. They plunge imo their
work tomorrow with practically everything undone which hitherto has. b-en
done for them, in the inner councils of the leaders.
Hushes leaders, remaining confi ' lpn ,n ihrir predictions tbat the jus
tice will be nominated on an early ba M' wm"nl U" ,h''1l1r J0?"" ?-
ve upon the" bv the allied favorite
night, surveying the effect of the dri tfa froil, tn ,a,est,
' ! sons end rcceivins unuledsed deleea
ProerP!sive eaders. unwilling to
if Mmiifi n khAi tiA ..niAHUi
M h j , continued
otirrTO, their cpmpaisn for Roose-
for t.f f,u)(.(i v c e
nub)ics.n nipmbers renresentimr
represent in
Mnoiioci iB.ni iimui in hum- huir
Kron New Jersey Hughes managers
expect to get at least 17 votes, the,
Rhode Island delegation of 10 is re-
oorted solid for Hughes, and substan-
I tiai pains were claimed in Connecticut
and other states.
If n ballot could be taken tonight
the consensus of political managers
indicated that it would be as follows:
Hughes Far in Lead.
Hughes. 261: Weeks. lt0; Roose-
velt. 9S: Cummins. 81: Fairbanks. SO;
Jlurton. 70: Sherman. 58; Knox. 51:
Root. 42: LaFollette, 2S; Scattering.
57. Total !S3.
This excludes two delegates from
the District of Columbia who were
unseated by the national commute trens.n c.as in many cases Deen split
but will take their rase before the 'n h'"lr vofs. i aking double the nu:n
rrdntials committee. Dor of delegates to be controlled from
The allies generally conceded that a single state. As one of the maua
Mr. Hughes was in the lead but the '' expressed it. many or the Pro
tnct that he occupies the lead was not gressive delegates have two voices (or
allowed to stand In the way of their ,h'r o" T,-
efforts to hold their forces in hand. " is P'3'" tonight that all the argu
Their Plan Is to prevent an early nients of Procrcsslve leader to influ
stsmpede to the Hughes column, in 'i"f bllo'ing in the Coliseum
the hope that delegates may bring into hav- fniM to change the plans of the
the situation so-'e new element which R putliran managers a varficle. Out
would weaken him and promote the of the conferences on the subject be
prosnects of some one of the other tween Senator Smoot and George r-r-candidates.
.' ' k'ns nothing resulted to clear up the
Many Ballot Expected. I matter.
All of the candidates were receiv-1 Hurry to Name T. R.
Inr favorable reports from their The key no:e speech to be made at
friends, aad In view of the situation lI,p Progressive convention is consid
thus created the general opinrti ortd b' niany likely to be tantamount
that several ballots will precede the to placing Colonel Roosevelt in nomi
nomination. The opinion is based on nstion. Many expect a tremendous
the supposition that no surprises will de-. onstration threateninc to all the
be sprung and that all hands would other candidates tomorrow,
rombine to bring harmony. How far the matter has gone is il-
T. R. Hold Club. ilustrated by the fact that Gifford Pin
Many believe that such an expres- "hot. Victor Murdock. Henry J. Allen,
sion would be fatal to Justice Hughes' other Progressives at a confer-
nomination because they say. it wo lid "n', sred that nothing short o( a
mean certain dereat at the polls reonest for delay by Colonel Roos.-
Some, however, ask his nomination
even in the teeth of disapproval by
! Roosevelt. This element predict the
nomination of the justice regardless of
consequences.
Bull Moose Stampede.
Althoiuh the Prourcssive managers
have been confronted by the fear of Present for discussion a list of can
thir delegates eettins out of h:ind. didates. any one of whith could com
they have capitalized the situation to nwnd the support of the others. This
the extent of using it as an argument f!' t admitu-dlv has been embarrassing
with the Republican managers for an
arly nomination In the Coliseum.
j Tb-y bate tn'd the Republicans that
they fully realize uncontrollable qua!
ities among the Roosevelt enthusiasts
which they fear will result in the
qu'ck nomination of the colonel.
The Republican managers reiter-
lated that they cannot be held respor.- j 'Hy rejected it and charged the Pm
Jsible for a condition which the Pro etessives with insincerity in present-
sressive leaders have created and
which now is plaueing them.
! I Hernlnned tixlav thnt there I a.
srowing disposition to evolve a con-
, fiprvflMvp nrns-rpssivism ns nnnosed to
Ue extmely radical element which
ouW o everything for conscience
- .jV. aivl nothing for expediency.
'hI"I that 4'olone! Rsvelt bts man-
nested a C. 1 sio .t ion to follow the ad-
Thousand of Progressives.
The uncontrollable quality of th
Progressive convention lies in the fact
" 'n roint of numbers it is a third
in as larxe as the Republican con
ver.tion. Many of the delegate to the
Prosrss;ve convention are unschooled
'y of parliamentary practice
and political management, and are in
tent on yoting for Colonel Roosevelt
and lie one else. In some cases they
are opening disapproving the uealinxs
of Proaressive leaders with the Re
publican managers in their t-'forts to
make peace.
In order to bring large delegates to
tile convention the Progressive
veit lnmseii siioula stand in tne war
of his immediate nomination. Out of
the negotiations for sympathy he-
tween the two sides, the Republican
managers consider trai their posi
, tion has bet n strengthened by the fact
that all along they have been ready
Progressives who found them-
selves l.nid upon to the charge of re
fusing to consider any other name
thnn Colonel Roosevelt's.
Reject LaFollettcA
To offset this condition, the name
of Senator IjiFollene was brousht
forward. The Republicans immedi-
icg the name oi a candidate they were
unwilling to endorse themselves.
