THE A
E PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
T W KXT Y-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MQBNIN& JUNE 7, 1916,
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 20
TWO CONVENTIONS
ZONA
NEITHER M
HAS DECIDED
Three Days of Almost Con
stant Conferences Have
Failed to Bring Republi
cans and Progressives to
An Agreement on Man
Lord Kitchener and Staff Victims of German Mine or Torpedo
TORNADO DEATH LIST
INCREASES AS BELATED
REPORTS ARE RECEIVED
PROGRESSIVES HOLD
FINAL CONFERENCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 8 The republican
MM the progressive national conven
tions both assemble tomorrow without
any indication that the leaders have
found the common ground on which
thc hoped to establish unity.
Tim e days of almost constant con
ferences have failed to bring the
republicans and the progressives to
an agreement on a man for the
residential nomination. A half dozen
names, any one of which is accept
able to the republicans, have been re
jected by the progressives, who have
proposed practically no name but
'olonel Roosevelt's.
The conventions assemble without
any outward evidence of the possi
bility of agreement Kverything in
dicated that they are far apart.
Not since the party was born has
there been such a lack of cohesive
leadership among the republicans and
I lie oldest convention observers de-
larc they never have seen such a
t: neral lack of enthusiasm. There
never has been a convention for
which so little had been arranged be
fore hand. They plunge into their
work tomorrow with practically ev
erything undone which hitherto has
been done for them in the inner
council! of the leaders.
Hughes leaders, remaining confident
in their predictions that the justice
will be nominated on an early ballot
were lining up their force tonight,
sun eying the effect of the IrCe
upon them by the allied favorite sons,
and recruiting unpledged delegates
from the latest arrivals.
Progressive leaders, unwilling to
ay. if they- could, whether I tie colo
nel would support the justice, con
tinued to carry on their fight for .Mr.
Roosevelt as their first choice. To
il; y George H. t'ortelyou. a former
member of the Roosevelt cabinet, ar
rived here and joined William Loeb
Jr., und (ieorge von L. Meyer, both
former members of the colonel's of
s flcial family, to comprise a Roosevelt
sliding committee within the repub
lican convention itself.
The republican managers, pressed
by the progressives to hurry their
nominations and disclose their can
didate, if thev hope to bid for Col
onel Roosevelt's support and prevent
a progressive ticket from taking the
field, have been given notice by
Senator Smoot that they can exjiect
no nomination in the republican con
vention before Friday. Senator Pen
rose, addressing the Pennsv lvania re- I
publican state delegation today, de
i hired the nominations for president
will not be made before late on Sat
urday. The most that can be said about
developments of the day is that there
has been a general tightening in the
various organizations In preparation
for the test of strength now so near.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
CHICAGO, June 6. A final pre
Con Vent ion conference of progressive
national committeemen, state chairmen,
and delegation chairmen was held to
night. Chairman Murdock of the na
tional committee and many other lead
ers made speeches urging that no nom
inations be made by the convention un
til Friday, ESnthuataauc applause was
given Chairman Murdock and the con
ferees felt that precipitate action in
the convention could be prevented.
Chairman Murdock said after the
conference that after tomorrow's pre
liminaries, be was sure the platform
1ITISI SEEBETH Df ID
would be considered most of Thursday
and nominations not reached until
Friday.
It was also decided to postpone the
opening of tomorrow's session from 11
o'clock to noon.
George W. Perkins tonight reiterated
his opinion that the progressive con
vention would not nominate a candi
date until there had been time for a
full conference in accordance with the
declaration of the progressive national
committee last January.
At the meeting the confer
to a man, leaped to their feet and en
thusiastically applauded Murdock's
speech advocating orderly, temperate I
and deliberate conduct of the convettr j
tion. A discordant note came later,1 1
however, when Prof. Albert Rushnell I
Hart, of Harvard university, urged the I
nomination of Colonel Roosevelt on the
opening day if the delegates were so i
disposed, and entirely in disregard of I
the republican convention's action.
Mr. Perkins, who had planned to ad- !
dress the conference, was unable to be j
present, but William Hamlin CitUds of '
Brooklyn, E. R. Hooker of New York !
and many others strongly argued
against precipitate action.
Chairman -Murdock urged the chair
men to use their influence with their I
delegations to insure "ordinary und or-
daily n convention procedure.
Similar sentiments were expressed by !
Mr. Hooker who declared Mr. Roose
veil's strength was growing hourly in '
the republican ranks.
Deliberations and adherence to the ,
national committee's public program of
bringing up nominations Friday also
was counselled by .1. M. M eCormirk; I
'state chairman ol Texas, and national
lmost committeeman.
ROOSEVELT IS
T
NE CMHE
DOES DDI WITH CRUISED
ON ID MISSION TO RUSSIA
I Republican A
CHICAGO, June
velt has neither s
against any man,
today. 'When he
P. Leaned Wire
ti. "Colonel Roose
Aid he was for nor
' Mr. Perkins said
does speak, it will
oe over his own sign
"I am amazed." lie
persons are taking
MM HI Kfi WITH Ifflfl T
UWUMII I 0 ! t 3 J 311 I H iiWUUUSLi, 3 ,n!"
' the
THEN T SATISFIED
voters who left
ure.
oBtinuad, "that
livantagc of Jus
tice Hughes' speech before a girls col
lege to get him a aowiaatioo tor presi
dent. Whoever tries to use this state-
for the puriK.se ol getting mm
i mi nation places him m an main-
mi
,To:
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
CHICAGO. June ti. Senator Borah';
and Colonel Roosevelt talked over the!
long distance telephone tonight re- I
specting effort?
lo bring about harmony , "lent
to our support many
us four years ago."
Senator Horah says
lustice Hughes
he said.
letting ihis
u would be so good as to
serapapera ask the people,"
we arc not in danger of
lilt!'.- puddle in which we
it ai the
leading
. . j , .
arc splasbing around oiiscure nan
unprecedented magnitude and menace.
for tw.
nearer
.rid
have
Wide
loecween the republican ami progress- present indications point to bis nom-
ive parties. Senator Borah would not (Nation. With Hughes as the nominee
discuss the conversation beyond say- . ... , .
I ill woo a g'MJU progressive piaiiorin
the senator said he thought progress
ive republicans would flock to the re-
MMkUMVi hanniv IJ. tSn.tl.i it
t. .id w itn Oj siti j pnjpijjjjj progressive.-- inigh. later
1 withdraw their third ticket if thev out
When it became known there had ; one In the field should the atiii.nle of
ing that l.e and the colonel had ex
changed views and ihat he was better
satisfied with the situation than he
had been before I e
Bay. '
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY, June C Death lists
in the storm-swept sections of Ar
kansas, Missouri. Mississippi and Il
linois grew hourly tonight as belated
reports were received from communi
ties which suffered in a series of tor
nadoes Monday night ami early today.
Late tonight the deaths of 121 per
sons had been reported, and a num
ber of other persons were unuccoiint-
I ed for and believ ed dead, and several
hundred have been injured, of whom
j some will die. Accurate estimates of
j property damage were not available.
! but all figures ventured by property
owners in the stricken communities
ran into the hundreds of thousands.
Incomplete tabulations showed the
following deaths:
Arkansas, 71.
.Missouri. 30. possibly more.
.Mississippi, 1."..
Illinois, 1.
Tennessee. 4. with a score missing
in the overturning of the Mississippi
packet Kleonore.
The casualties in Arkansas were
from every section. Scarcely a county
escaped the path of the storm which
traversed the entire state.
Jackson antl Vicksburg suffered
from the storm in Mississippi.
Many of the casualties in Arkansas
and Mississippi were negroes. In
Missouri the Poplar Bhffff section was
well devastated.
.Mr-' 'lure reported the single death
in Illinois.
Possibility that the full extent
the storm's death toll has not be
come known was seen late tonight in
word "from Conway. Ark., that forty
been a telephone conference it was re
ported the senator told the colonel that !
he believed Hughes should be nom-
inated early by the republicans and i
that he hoped such a program would
le satisfactory. '1 his report was re- :
peated to Senator Horah, who declared
that it was not a true representation
of what had taken place.
"I can't tell you what occurred," said
the senator, "I wish I could but it is
impossible."
The telephone conference took place
shortly after a meeting late tonight
between Senator Borah and George W.
Perkins. As the testilt of that confer
ence the senator expressed the opinion
that the republican convention should
now proceed to make a nomination in
an orderly manner and select the can
didate who had a majority of the dele
gates in the customary manner.
"What we must do now." he said,
"is to proceed just as we would have
done had there been no third party.
Harmony is to be desired but we can
not be expected to descend to the bar
tering of our dignity and independence.
"i believe that ultimately we will
the nominee of the republican arty
satisfy their demands respecting cam
paign issues.
A few hours after Mr. Borah's re
marks on the situation had been made.
Mr. Perkins emerged from a confer
ence with Senator Lodge, smilingly j
declaring that the outlook for harmony
between the two conventions was j
brighter.
Simultaneously, it was announced I
that the progressive plan to print full !
page advertisements throughout the i
country tomorrow in behalf of Colonel '
Roosevelt had been abandoned.
Neither Mr. Perkins nor any of the!
other progressives who were in the con- I
ference would discuss details nor day I
what led to the abandonment "f the
advertising program
i "On tils eve of the two conventions."
i Mr. Ptikins said, 'it is my judgment
j that they are g.urg to start off with
friendly relation which argue well for
'a favorable result"
I The proposal to form official con
ference committees i"i the two ce&Ven
tior.s for the purpoa . of discussion of
the tepuhlican ami progressive agrec-
Every day
been drawing
cataclysm.
"The Culted Stales now lias a
matchless opportunity to render world- j
wide service by providing it a leader
lin whom the World has confidence.!
That man is Theodore Roosevelt."
f ..I , 1 .- fl Bfcll IMIIUI -Ji . , I . . I , ' ? 1
, 7 m,i I ! ersons had been killed or injured
to tlie progressive delegates reminding 1
. 1 ' " .' , .n,;,..J... at Cato, hear there, owing to pros-
them thai thev are not in Chicago. . "
' i I (rated wires, it was impossible to get
against anvl-odv. lie said. I. , .77 .4. ,
h , 1 "' .- i n communication with the town and
"Let me remind you ihat we are not 1
I , , i,ilr,the rumored casualties were not 111-
I here lor the avowed purpose of being,
, i u- r..,. c uded in the list of more than 100
against anybody. Ve are RM some
body and that somebody is Theodore dead.
Roosevelt We are out for a match
less man and an incomparable cause.
Field Marshal Kitchener, the
British secretary for war, and
several of his staff have been lost
at sea off the Orkney islands by
the sinking of the British cruiser
Hampshire, on which Earl Kitch
ener was making a voyage to
Russia on a special mission to
Emperor Nicholas, and probably
also with the intention of visiting
the battle front in Russia where
the great offensive against the
Teutonic allies has been begun
by the Russians.
So far as has been ascertained
there were no survivors of the
disaster and it seems probable
that between 2C0 and 300 men met
met their death when the Hamp
shire either struck a mine or was
torpedoed.
I
'.ord Kitchener.
have
econd choice.
.porters of Hughes have been I . " aleoi anu nr -o. iinmanij win oe laneo up 111 ine
counting Mioses me wnwam uwu our iree aeie- 1 con veni-otis soon, ir I'erKius declared.
vtomikinir for them Prank H Mitch- 1 1 iiuiiK is oesi i it leu in carry the Itun.iis that Cel.,.,?. (Roosevelt hal
ock estimated the justice would r-! ''"nj?" Mhe campaign. .adslsed his SUfrpol te-. that he would
about 300 votes on the first , w me piauorm one ivitn not maKe a race on me progressive
wnicn no lauu can tie lotind by anv ticket alone were denied emphatically
cctve.
ballot
He said
reports hada.
been
(Continued on Page Three) ; -
j faction of the party, autd we will draw by Mr. Perkins
n-
RCOSEVELT DENIES
OPPOSING HUGHES
! OTCTER HAY, N. Y., June 6.
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt dented
i.ositiveh tonight that he had tele-
' phoned lo progressive lesders at
i jreago authorizing them to rom-
Inatt him for the presidenev at the
lonvetitinn of thtM party if the rc-
! pull ten ns nominated Hughes
cant nominated Justice Hughes.
I 'raven t sent any such message,"
Colonel Roosevelt declared em
phntiCnlly. He said lie had noth-
HUUSLVtL
1
1
1
T SENTIENT GROWS
DESPITE EFFORTS FDR OTHERS
1 Special to The Republican)
! CHICAGO III.. June . Tremmi
' i dous crowds are here for the big
. conventions. The hotel lobbies are
I jammed with cheering partisans. The
majority sentiment of the crowds is
Conferences between republican and
progressive leaders continue. The old
guard have no definite program as
yet. but are rather inclining to Jus-
in.T wnaiever 10 say in regaro 10 ; for foionel Roosevelt and this (g
I (he political sitiintior and he de- I ! gaining steadily despite the organ
cliried to ccmmVnt n (he speech ! ized efforts of immense numbers of
..f lattice Hughes at Washington Sherman, Weeks and Burton lioosters.
I last night. j The majority of the old guard still
1 I sit tight.
'trio withdrew
1 of candidates.
IlilP
Prog
ressive Demonstration
is Held in Natal Hall
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 6 The first of the!
progressive lUmonslrat ions which are ,
planner! fr everv' afternoon during
the convention eriod was held in the ';
sfime room in which the progressive
part) was i.orn four years ago.
Victor Murdock presided and
soeeches ir-sis'lng on 'olonel Roose
velt cs the candidates when the re
publicans should accep were made by
Governor Minim Johnson of California;
John M. Parker of Louisiana; Henry
AlPm of Kansas. J;mes R. Garfield of
Ohio, and Mr. Murdock.
Many members of the National re
publican league, who had been using
the room before the progressives, re
mained m their 'chairs through tha
progressive meeting.
'TM not deny that there is a split in
the progressive party," said Allen.
Some of the delegates want to numin
u e Colonel Roosevelt the first thing
tc morrow morning."
Gov error Johnson asserted that as
the republicans have accepted the is- i
sue .f Americanism they most ac
cent the maker of the issue. Mr.eMur
dodH and Mr. Garfield earnestly ml- .
vied the Rodaevetl boomers to get out'
r.nd work among the Republican dele
gates. . J
1 upon
: MfunlM is futile."
tice Hughes in an effort to prevent A few minutes
tne union ot both conventions on
Roosevelt. An increasing number of
large huetmedl men is arriving and
these ure working for Roosevelt's
nomination. Senator Penrose and'
other old guard leaders are manifestly
worried. At a Pennsylvania caucus j
today Penrose frankly stated that he
confronted a new situation in hlsj
political career, and asked for more j
time to outline the action of the j
delegation. j
A great Roosevelt mass meeting of
husiness men was, held at the Garrick.!
theater at noon today. The assem-j
blage was addressed by Hugh thai- j
mers and other prominent speakers. '
On the first ballot Hughes will
show the strongest vote and it is
claimed his support will stay with I
him-lor several ballots. Favorite;
sons will then fie given a try out, The
situation is thoroughly chaotic, but
everv Indication is that w hile not
large at the start, the Roosevelt vote
will gain in every ballot. As guests
uf J. U Hiibbell, who is here working
lor Roosevelt, the Arizona Repuhli an
an 1 progressive delegates dined to
gether tonight. The guests. with
Other Arizona ns present, numbered
21, Many members of the various
Therefore vv
"Go to it."
How progressive leaders at a secret
conference with old guard representa
tives late last night declined to con
sider Theodore L. Uurlon of Ohio as
a compromise candidate for the repub
lican nomination today became public.
Senator Smoot presented Mr. Bur
ton's name. In company with Repre
sentative McKinley of Illinois, he called
Bi ;Oovernor Johnson of California.
William Aldcn Whit of. Kansas 111111
Horace Wilkinson of New York, he
progressive steering committee, ana
said he was ready to talk compromise.
j "We think the time has come tor
j nominating a compromise candidate."!''
he was nuoted today by a progressive'
leader as saying. Here is a man wno
:will unite us, draw heavily from the
Herman and pacifists' vote and carry
' us to victory next fall."
! ".Who is he?" chorused the prog-
ressives.
I "Theodore K. Barton of Ohio," Mr.
j Smoot replied.
Cor a moment there was silence.
1 Then Governor Johnson sprang from
Ihis chair and began walking back audi
! forth across the room but saying I
i nothing. Another of the progressives
finally spoke;
"You have expressed the real vital
difference between the republican und j
progressive parties in their methods of j
selecting candidates for the presi- j
denrv." he said. "You would' name a
man who can pick up the scattering
' vote of factions here and there. We
want a candidate wno is a national 1
fiirure and can draw from all sections I
!of I he country, and until we can agree
;uch a man all talk of a com-
Seventy-six In Arkansas
LITTLE ROCK. Ark.. June fi. -
Seventy-six deaths .11 Arkansas from .
yesterday's storm had been reported
early tonight. Two persons are-miss-I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ing and there are unconfirmed re-j OYSTER BAY, June S. Colonel
ports of the deaths of several others, j Roosevelt made the following state
The list of injured is more than S0, ' "lent tonight concerning Lord Kitch-
SOme of whom will die.
Scarcely a county in Arkansas es-j hlx yeare ago, be said. "1 passed
caned the series of tornadoes which through the Sudan and was more
i traversed the entire state. deeply impressed than I can well ex-
The a-reatest loss of life was at , l,r'ss by the extraordinary benefits se-
IHeber Springs, a resort town 011 theolir:'
i Missouri & North Arkansas railroad.
I Here 'Id persons are reported to have
j been killed and about (10 injured.
The death list at Judsonia. a town
0," SOU 40 miles northeast of
tilo l:.k ho. Wo .U.finilelv five.l I" 'l"""o.i n.tu Ulllllll isimu ov cousin
News is Stunning Blow
; LiiNDON, June 6. The news that
I Karl Kitchener, secretary of state for
j war and his staff, who were proceed
j ing to Russia aboard the cruiser
Hampshire, were lost off the Orkney
; islands last night, was the most stun
; ning blow Great Rritaiu has received
: since the war began.
Accompanying harl Kitchener as
bis staff were Hugh James tTBeyrne,
former councillor of the British em
bassy at Petrograd and former minis
ter to Sofia; o. A. Fitzgerald. Earl
Kitchener's private military secre
tary; Brig. Gen. Kllershaw and Sir
Frederick Donaldson.
This is the second shuck the coun
try has sustained within a v. eek. The
other was when the newspaper ap
peared HYiday evening with the first
intelligence of the nav,al battle in the
North sea in the form of a list of the
ships lost, with irtually no intima
tion that there thus any compensa
tion in the way ot enemy losse. rue
bulletin telling of the death of Kitch
ener gave ;he country even a greater
j shock.
Kitchener was the one outstand
' ing personality whom the lieople
. talked of anu believed in as a great
j man. nothw ithstanding newspaper at
j tacks which at a, former period of
the war threatened to undermine his
' popularity and the public confidence
1 in him.
' A telegram from Admiral Sir John
r.mi . I .f uA PI ,
the natives of the country ,yi"""", ' ' " "? f"
Lord Kitchener s conquest and the ad- i lnt' "a"' was "D,"u "
ministration of himself and his lieu- 1 ,h,i admiralty about 11 o'clock in the
tenant and successor. General Wingate. I morning. The first official announce
"He. rescued it from a condition f 1 ment was issued at about 1:30 in the
Roosevelt Says
Kitchener Like
Dewey and Others
ener:
chroni
slaughter under which the
at nine. All were negroes. Three
white persons are badly injured and
may die.
Additional casualty lists were re
ported tonight from Korest City, near
where three white persons and a
negro were killed and about 4n ne
groes were injured.; from Stuttgart,
six killed and .'to injured; from
Ozark, with one death and the report
that two more are believed to have
been killed and from Fortyoe, where
the list of dead in Dallas county was
increased to live.
It is impossible lo estimate the
property loss. From every place that
suffered, however, come reports that
buildings were swept away by the
dozens.
More than :!0 are reiorted injured,
(Continued on Page Three!
erably more than half and of the
younger children over nine-tenths of
disease or starvation. The result of
the conques was to establish absolute
peace and justice under the orderly
reign of law.
Kitchener and Wingate did in the
Sudan exactly whit Admiral Dewey,
Governors-'. racial Taft. Luke AVright.
Smith. FoCbes and thcii associates and
Generals Leonard Wood, Hell. Funston.
Parry and others like them did for th
1 'hilippines."
later the old guard
from further discussion
IT
'A n n 1 t 1 n nr n
I ilr I II I cl! Trill 1 l n nr r Mi-rit-l
uni inin unui 1 mull iilullo
ic lunui nn ino uiciiic
iu i.uvv ullililu muftiiL
REPUBLICAN LEAGUE
HOI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
IM'BLIN. June 6. (Via London. I r
The prosecution today began flic
presentation of its case at the court
martial of Captain Bowen-Colthurst. 1
I charged with the Shooting of F. body
Sbaehy Skeffington, editor of the i bitter then ordered that
Irish Citizen; Thomas Dickson ''and I shoot again. Mother
afternoon. Such news, however, can
not be kept entirely secret even for
nn hour. Before noon rumors were
spreading, and the telephones in the
newspaper offices were busy with in
quiries anxious to know whether this
one of the many reports circulating
in these days of tension had any
found. if ion. They Were told there w as
nothing in it.
Admiral Jelliicoe's report to the ad
miralty was as follows:
"I have to report Ihat his majesty's
- j ship Hamshire. Capt. Herbert J. Sa
1 vflle, R. D.. with Lord Kitchener and
his staff on board, was sunk last
night at about S o'clock 10 the west
of the Orkneys, either by a mine or
1 a tory.edo.
"Four boats were seen by observers
on shore' to leave the ship. The wind
was north-northwest and heavy seas
were running. Patrol vessels and de
stroyers proceeded to the spot and a
party was sent along the coast to
1 search, but only some bodies and a
capsized boat, have been found up to
the present. I greatly fear that there)
is little hope of there being any sur
vivors. "H. IjL S. Hampshire was on her
j way to Kussia.
' When the announcement finally was
; issued the fact spread about London
xlremely excited and did some time before the newspapers could
in his usual manner. One ; Set int" ,hfe streets. There was a
id that after the shooting he i ,'rowd about the s,ock se which
... , , vl ! required police reserves to deal with.
The !
the squad
oiley was!
WEST VIRGINIA PRIMARIES
CHARLESTON W. Va.. June .
Meagre returns from the primar:
election held throughout the state to
day indicated late tonight that Judge
Ira Robinson had received the repub- j
ltcan and J. B. Cornwell the dem
ocratic nomination for governor.
thtirst was
not act 111
officer
noticed
md told the captain of it
The police told everyone to move on:
1 that there was no truth in the reports.
At the same time, another mass of
j people was assembling about the gov
ernment officies in Whitehall. All the
windows of I lie war office had the cur-
.... , I Fred Mclntvre. during the recent fi'ed into ihe body
f Republican A. P. Leased Wirej Irtah rebellion. The defendant is ac- " was testified that Captain
III. . 1. ., j .... ........ niwH .,f niov. er OWeil -1 o I 1 1 list toll Maim- Hnv-I
mdftd was today electeu president of The prosecutint f)rri,.t.v nU the de-i burgh, who was In command of ,be' tains lowered. That confirmed the ru;
the National republican league. Wil- ; fel-dant took the ,hree men from the fort.. Hollo barracks, that he h.,n J mor beyond doubt. Other crowds gath
,i;,in It. Brewster ..f New ork, who suur(J room with the remark an, shot the men on his own respond- t'1""'1 around the newspaper offices,
v as chesen secretary 01 Ihe organiza- KoinK l(l shoot th(,m g j think jt j ldlity and protiably would hang foe ,t. i When the boys came out with armfuls
tion refirrcd lo the Cnited States as j the. right thing to do." Qeneral Bird, the chief Witness fori "f ext,ras the people fell on them ami
a "bod of laud completely surround- xhe orderly made a report regard- the defense, related how C iplain fought for the papers. In the course
ed bv trouble." . .jug this to the adjutant general, w ho , Row en -Colt but st had disobeyed .11 -1 of the afterniKin the flags on all build
Addresses were mad" by Mr. Ham- i sent a message to Captain BowenKiders during the retreat and was sus
nionii. Governor Frank B. Willis of Colthnrsi, but it is not known I pended. Bowen-Colthurst's company
Ohio; H. clay Evaiss. Tennessee, J. j whether it reached him. .t all Was ordered t.. retire, but liowen
;vlonl l;il"V. Missouri- John C. Capers, I events, declares the prosecuting of-j Colthursl gave the command lo ad
Washington, and Dr. John Weslev Hill , (icer. the men were taken to the . vance. This, said the witness, showed
of New York. I yard and shot by a firing party of j his Incapacity
(Continued on Page Two)
Following its policy,
adopted resolutions lo "w
thing f ir the good of th.
Mr. Brewster phrased It.
league
for any
my," As
sevrn men. i Medical testimony was then taken
officers testified that they had for the purpose of indicating the nn
been dead seventy-two hours at this j balanced state of Rowen-Colthurst's
time and that Captain llowen-Col-1 mind.
ing were flown at half staff.
The English undoubtedly are a stoic
people and have taken the good and
bad tidings of the war as they came
with absence of emotional surprising
to outsiders. Rut no one could have
walked the streets today without per
ceiving that something which the com
(Continued on Page Two)
