Kv HHHH
BtL YbB
I I Today's Metal Prices TRW A, mfti iV f JK IwXvi'X I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
MB lead, $7.00; spelter, nominal; copper f 1
H $28.00 to $29.25. S and Thursday; Rising Temperature. H
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, - ! M
M Forty-sixth Year No. 136. Price Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 7, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, O0den, Utah. LU
BAH ' ' ' - i- m IH
Great Demonstration for Roosevelt I
I TUMULT IN PROGRESSIVE HALL
PROLONGED AND ENTHUSIASTIC
WD
g Pandemonium Breaks Loose When Temporary Chairman Re-
fl fers to Ex-president as "Foremost Citizen of the World"
Banners and Stanchions Carried About Chicago
I Auditorium, Bands Play, Songs Are Sung and
Cheers Resound Through Big Hall.
I
flf Auditorium, Convention Hall, Chi-
cago, June 7. Delegates and guests of
Ml the Progressive convention .arrived
mm slowly for the opening of the conven
H Hon at 12 o'clock. The band began
H to piny at 11 o'clock but there were
H few lo be entertained and the muslcl
D ans gave up without completing their
K first number.
Ba When delegates began to take their
Kt places tliey did so quietly, only a few
mi of the states attempted anything like
1 massed entry.
Apparently "nothing had occurred
to stimulate enthusiasm and nothing
was expected before Raymond Rob
bins delivered his keynote address as
temporary chairman.
Reports that there might be an In
sistent demand for Colonel Roosevelt
as notice to the Republicans that thoy
could not be Ignored were discouraged
and almost squelched by a statement
i , Issued by George W. Perkins, the
I" chief spokesman for the party who
said that the Progressives were In a
conciliatory spirit and would not act
precipitately, while the possibility of
i agreement with the Republicans re
mained. His statement said:
"At the moment of the opening of
the conventions the Progressives arc
! very well satisfied with the atmos
i phere surrounding them and believe
that a proper spirit has been created
from which the result so desirable in
the best interests of the country may
bo finally obtained "
Mr. Perkins was asked if Colonel
Roosevelt would be nominated today
"There is not a chance" he replied.
"We are not going to take any snap
i judgment."
Chicago. June 7. A tentative draft
; of the Progressive platform framed
bv a committee of leaders today
' shows that the principal appeal of
' the party will be made on prepared
ness with Americanism as the foun-
dation. The draft is short, not more
; than 1500 words in length It discus-
ses preparedness under three heads.
' 'c "Military," "Of the Spirit" and "In
dustrial." Under the "spirit" comes
Americanism and under Industrial
' preparedness comes the tariff and
i questions of social and Industrial re-
- form.
i Much of the 1912 platform is omit
ted from the draft but there is a gen-
: eral reiteration of its principles. The
g draft was drawn by Dean William
V Draper Lewis of the University of
f Pennsylvania, Chester Rowoll of
WB California, James R. Garfield, Giffrd
Pinchot, Herbert Knox Smith, Wil
liam Dudley Foulke and William Al-
i len Willie. It wil be submitted to the
resolutions committee in the regular
course of proceedings, but it is be
lieved by Its framers it will go to
"l the convention In about the shape
; drawn.
Perkins Explains Attitude. (
Supplanting his formal statement
Mr. Perkins Bald: r I
I "Everyone should keep It constant- ,
1 ly In mind that the Progressive con- ,
I vontlon is not being hold at the same (
I time as the Republican convention In .
1 h the spirit ot a threat. "The Progres-
I $ Blves teel that the first peace move
I ought to come from the Republicans
I 1 but, Mr. Perkins thought it possible
3 that the Republicans would take the
All initiative in efforts toward peace.
IllJi Mr. Perkins said a telephone con-
Ifl ve'rsatlon he had with Colonel Roose-
Sitl volt this morning was devoted almost
Sill entirely to the bad weather both here
Jill and at Oyster Bay. Neither of them,
J said Mr. Perkins, regarded the wcath-
I 't er as an ill omen.
1 i "Teddy" Songs to Be Sung.
m i Like huge snow flakcB flecked over
I ;f the auditorium were pinned copies of
1 ' "Teddy" sons to be sung by delegates
1 t including "When Teddy Comes Mnrch-
' ing Home," to the tune of "When
Bv Johnnv Comes Marching Home. '
E? A box was reserved for the Roose-
1 ' volt family and friends and a special
1 police guard, on the second tier of
B mezzanine. . ..
B At noon the delegates were still fil-
1 ing in and opening of the convention
B " was delayed.
B - Chairman Murdock and Secretary
fl Davies of the national committee ar-
Bl rived Just before the hour Bet, con-
ifr ierlng with leaders.
flm Crowd Cheers Songs.
SB The balconies were about half fill-
9k ed and the two upper balconies were
Mm-- almost bare of spectators. A quar-
BE tette singing "Teddy" songs from the
BIB. balcony kept the crowd cheering and
ft waiving hats while the fall of the op-
RBf enlng gavel was awaited.
mmn The Michigan delegation bearing a
nil huge banner inscribed "Roosevelt car-
W6m riod Michigan by 60,000 in 1912 and
IB can carry It by 100,000 in 1916" and
BUB American flags was the first to form
Bin outside the auditorium. Thoy start-
MWfe 1 to march into tho building through
Br an adjoining hotel when their loaders
tmW demanded an outdoor demonstration.
llf&L "Teddy is not afraid of the rain," thoy
He. touted, "Get out and march." So In
Kp?r a body they marched out into the
H?W rain, shouting and singing "Teddy,
I BJ 'ro a Boar."
Ht Toxans Wear Red Bandanas.
IpJK bandana handkorchiefs were
IIHk lorn by eonB of tho Texas delegates
$? i&nd many others carried small Ameri-
mmtim-
Km , "
can flags of the boutonlere and hand
variety
While the delegates were filing In,
the band played a medley of airs, in
cluding the Progressive birth song,
"Onward. Christian Soldiers." Anoth
er was the music to the bull fight In
the opera "Carmen "
Governor Johnson Present.
L Governor Johnson of California, Pro
gressive candidate for vice president
In 1912, stepped quietly Into a seat
in tho California delegation shortly be
fore the convention convened. Mrs.
Johnson and a party of friends occu
pied a box above tho California group.
The delegations exchanged state
yells in a hubub of confusion. They
stood and cheered as the band played
"My Old Kentucky Homo" in a south
ern melody.
There was considerable confusion
In the seating of delegations, many al
teratcs taking seats assigned to prin
cipals. Among Progressive notables on the
stage were James R. Garfield, Wil
liam Flynn and Oscar Straus. The
latter was cheered when recognized.
Ovation For Perkins.
George W Perkins was given an
ovation when he came upon the stage
shortly after noon.
Following the arrival of leaders, the
band played the Star Spangled Ban
ner while the entire throng stood
with heads bared.
Mr. Perkins was cheered frequently
by separate delegations as somo one
on their part attracted their atten
tion. At 12 27 the convention was called
lo order by Victor Murdock, chairman
of the national committee. He rap
ped with his gavel for several min
utes before quiet was obtained.
Delegates Cheer Murdock.
The delegates cheered when Chair
man Murdock finally waB able to be
heard. The Kansas delegation had
caused an uproar by yelling "Rock
salt, Jayhawk Murdock."
Then the crowd gave him three
cheers.
Bishop William Fraser McDowell of
Chicago, offered the invocation after
shouting "Everybody up."
The prayer expressed hope that the
efforts of the convention would re
dound in the belief of the republic;
that the nation "may 6erve humanity
to lead the world to liberty, truth and
righteousness."
The bishop asked for help for the
"war stricken world" and for divine
help "to bind up the nations broken
and wounded."
After the prayer "America" was
sung, the entire convention standing,
all Joining in the national anthem. "I
know that the members of this con
vention will be on their good behav
ior but as a precaution I request tho
police and sergeant-at-arms to step
forward and stand at attention,"
flinlrrtinn " f 1 1 f1 o L- n n n nil Tl rPil
The officers came forward and
flashlight photographs were then
taken. Secretary O. K. Davis read
the convention call of the national
committee and the temporary officers
were announced. Thereupon, Chair
man Murdock presented Raymond
Robins of Chicago, as temporary
chairman ot tho convention.
Birth of the Party.
I "Four years ago in the city of
Chicago," Mr. Murdock said, "there
was born of a mighty aspiration tho
Progressive party. It was untram
meled by tradition and uncorrupted
by power. It had but one design,
desire and determination to put the
public welfare in first place. It turn
ed its back upon the past, its preju
dices, Its extreme partisanship, Its
mistaken preconceptions and it turn
ed to the future achievement of a
practical work a day brotherhood.
"Here in Illinois tho Progressive
party has had alike in sunshine and
in storm the great good, gentle heart
ed, giant minded Robins whom I in
troduce as temporary chairman of
this convention."
When Mr. Robins' selection had
been announced, Clarence W. Halbert
of Minnesota moved that selection be
approved. The vote was unanimous.
Mr. Robins was applauded as he was
escorted to tho platform by Governor
Johnson of California, Oscar of Cali
fornia, Colonel John M. Parker of
Louisiana and Mr. Halbert
Crowds Rise and Shout.
Applause frequently halted Mr. Mur
dochs introduction, tho throng rising
and shouting when he said the Pro
gressives had "kept the faith" during
tho last four years.
"You're right, we have," scores of
delegates shouted. ,
Mr. Robins was givon an ovation
as he stepped forth and took charge
of the convention, beginning his ad
dress. Cheering for the temporary chair
man lasted less than twenty seconds.
His first words were mot with cries
of "louder." Soon the convention set
tled down to listening.
After three sentences, Temporary
Chairman Robins Introduced the
name of Theodore Roosevelt. All
delegates and spectators sprang to
to their feet, wildly cheering and wav
ing flage.
Chairman Robins was advised not
DELIVERED KEY NOTE SPEECH I
Senator Warren G. Harding .
to repeat Colonel Roosevelt's name
when he was able to resume. lie
promised not to do so. The demon
strations had proceeded 3-1 minutes.
Convention officers agreed that the
delegates could not hayeJageji. je.
strained from voicing 'Their demand
for Roosevelt.
The characterization of Roosevelt
as the "foremost citizen of the world"
was the phrase that caught the
crowd. "We want Teddy!" was the
resultant battle cry.
, , . , -- - --.-v-
(Continued on Page 7 )
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION BUSY
i
Senator Harding's Long Speech Outlining Political Conditions
Given Close Attention and Appeal for Party Harmony
Brings Loud Demonstration Roar of Applause
Sweeps Coliseum When Speaker Refers to Need
of Preparedness for National Defense .
Peace Negotiations With Progressives
Being Arranged by Leaders. -
Coliseum, Chicago, June 7. The
Republican national convention began
Its flrBt day's business shortly before
noon today by hearing the keynote
speech by Senator Harding of Ohio,
temporary chairman and then going
on to perfect a temporary organiza
tion. There were applause, enthusiasm
and cheers but not the noticeable and
almost riotous demonstrations which
have marked previous conventions.
Every seat on the floor and in tho
galleries was filled when Chairman
Hilles of the Republican national com
mittee dropped the gavel and brought
tho convention to order
Senator Harding was greeted by the
first loud demonstration as he took
his place and began delivering the
prepared speech in which he empha
sized the need for party harmony for
victory at the polls. A roar of ap
plause swept out through the hall at
that and his reference to the need
of preparedness for national de
fense. Senator Harding's speech was long
about 15000 words, but the conven.
tion was orderly and on the whole
orderly during its deliver)'.
The talk of peace negotiations with
the Progressive convention- which
assembled at almost the same hour
had been freely circulated during the
morning but It was entirely lost in
the business of organizing the Repub
lican convention.
Temporary Officers Recommended.
The recommendations for temporary
offlcors then were read.
Former Governor Eberhart of Min
nesota moved that the recommenda
tions bo ndopted. Chairman Harding
put the question, There was no op
position. Senator Llppltt of Rhode Island of
i fered the rules of the convention ot
1908 and moved their adoption until
1 permanent organization. There was
no dissenting votes. There were no
rules adopted in the 1912 convention.
Smoot to Offer Resolutions.
Senator Smoot of Utah was recog
1 nized to offer the resolution to create
' the committee on credentials. It also
was adopted. Then John S. Fisher of
Pennsylvania was recognized to pre
sentation for permanent organization.
' Thero was no opposition to that. Na
1 tional Committeeman Warren of
Pennsylvania presented tho rules re
solution. That too was adopted with
out dlBsent,
Charles Hopkins Clark of Hartford,
Conn , offered the resolution for the
platform committee. That with the
adoption ended the routine committee
resolutions and the secretary called
the roll of states and the selections
to the committees were announced.
While the temporary organization
was being effected there was a move
ment of many persons toward exits.
This movement became so general
that the chair asked for more order
The roll call was slow and Senator
Lodge protested.
"Call the rool at once for all five
oommiUees," he said. J"Don't call
it five times "
The method ot calling for the ap
pointments swiftly went on, however,
and somo delegates then suggested
that all lists be sent to tho platform
to bo announced. That was adopted.
After the lists had been gathered
the placo and time ot the committee
meetings later today were adopted.
Tho committee on resolutions will
meet at tho coliseum at 3; 30 today
to give public hearings.
At 1-28 o'clock Sloner Brown of
Now York moved that the convention
adjourn until 11 a. m. tomorrow. It
was carried and the delegation began
to file out
Harmony Committee to be Named.
The talk of harmony with Progres
sives who assembled in the convention
about the same time was lost for tho
time being in the work of organizing
the convention but it went on under
the surface meanwhile and there were
renewed indications that tho Republi
can leaders were considering the plan
of appointing a conference committee
to talk with the Progressives in the
hope of finding a compromise ground.
Among members of the Republican
national committee tho report per
sisted that there was a plan to have
the Republican committee itself namo
such a conference nt tomorrow's ses
sion. Senator Penroso of Pennsylvania
was said to have been ready to present
such a resolution today with the idea
of naming Senator Borah or somo oth
er man friendly to Colonel Roosevelt
as chairman. Charles D. Warren, na.
tional committeeman, from Michigan
said that when tho other members
of the committee learned- of this plan,
Senator Penrose who was seated on
the floor with the Pennsylvania dole-
1
gation was called lo the platform and
told that if such a resolution was pre
sented the elements opposed, to Col
onel Roosevelt would be able to name
their own conference committee. Sent
ator Penrose Mr. Warren said, then
expressed a willingness to withhold
the motion.
Immediately after tho convention
adjourned the resolutions met to hold
public hearings and the other commit
tees scattered ov,er the city.
A meeting of the committee on per
manent organization was called for
four o'clock and it was said that the
committee would recommend that tem
porary officers be made permanent,
oo
Detroit. Mich., June 7. Henry
Ford's secretary today, denied a report
that Mr. Ford had notified the Michi
gan Republican delegation that they
should vote for Justice Hughes after
they had voted for Ford on the first
ballot.
Hadley Unable to Attend.
Kansas City. Mo., June 7. Herbert
S Hadley, delegate at large to the
Republican national convention and
who was a prominent' figure in the
1912 convention, will not be able to
attend this year's meeting. The form
er governor of Missouri has been in
ill health and his physicians advised
him today not to make the trip
HARDING MAKES
KEYNOTESPEECH
Convention Cheers When
Speaker Declares Country
Is Calling for Republican
1 Administration.
FOR ADEQUATE DEFENSE
Not Time for Recrimination,
But Day of Reconsecration
Navy Should Fear
None in World.
Coliseum. June 7, 11:36 a, m.
Chairman Hilles presented the name
of Senator Warren G. Harding as tem
porary chairman.
An outburst of applause, the first
demonstration of the convention,
greeted the announcement.
There were no other nominations
and Mr. Harding was declared elec
ted. Harding ascended the platform amid
great applause and was introduced at
11:50 a. m.
The first loud applause and qheers
of the convention greeted the senator.
Chairman Hilles presented him In a
few words Mr. Harding bowed and
smiled and plunged into his keynote
speech, reading from manuscript.
Chairman Hilles left the chair tem
porarily and many of the leaders took
the opportunity to confer while Sen
ator Harding was speaking. Applause
punctuated Senator Harding's speech
from time to time and while there
were some demonstrations on the
whole the convention listened quietly
as he read. There were cheers when
he declared the country was calling
for Republican administration and
when he asked all to forget the in
harmonious convention of four years
ago. His reference to the need of pre
paredness for national defense was
greeted with a roar of applause.
No Time For Recrimination.
More applause greeted his declara
tion that "this is not the time for
recrimination, it is a day of reconse
cration." "I know the Republican party to
be genuinely progressive as well as
effective" he said.
Senator Harding seldom referred
to his manuscript His full voice car
ried to the farthest ends of the colis
eum. Republicans For Defense.
Tni.-Jnf un national defense Senator
Harding brought applause when he
said the Republicans "believe sincere
ly and soberly in adequate national de
fense." L ,
"We ought to have a navy that fear3
none In the world" he said This
brought out most enthusiastic ap
plause. Roaring Demonstration Made.
There was another roaring demon
stration when he declared that Re
publican policies promised all the
means for the expanse of adequate de
fense. , ,
Thero was laughter when he refer
red to President Wilson's speaking
trip for preparedness and declared the
president might better have devoted
his efforts to the Democratic major
ity in congress.
He accredited the Republican mlu
orlty in the senate with having put
the "real things" In the army bill.
"We love peace and Justice and wo
Intend to have them," said he. "And
wo are not 'too proud to fight' for
them." , , ,
All through Senator Harding s re
ference to tariff drew applause, and
his declaration also that ho believed
in a tariff that gave protection and
prosperity to America first.
There was more applause when the
speaker referred to tho war munitfoiiB
traffic and declared it had produced
a prosperity at tho cost of human
lives.
"It is the gold sluice from the river
of blood," he declared.
Loud laughter and Jeers greeted bis J
reference to tho "changing position of
(Continued on Pago Seven).
RUSSIANS CAPTURE OVER FORTY
THOUSAND MEN IN. BIG FIGHT
Petrograd, June 7, via London, 6:35 p. m. In their new H
offensive movement the Russians have captured more than
forty thousand men, it was announced officially today. H
The statement says that on the border, between the Pripet lH
and the Rumanian frontier, over which the campaign is being l
fought, the Russians thus far have taken 900 officers, 40,000
men, 77 guns, 1 34 machine guns and 49 bomb throwers. ' x III
Austrians Checked. H
Rome, June 7, via London, 6:50 p. m. Checks for the H
Austrians all along the line of their attacks in the southern H
Tyrol are reported today by the war office. The important H
Coni Zugna in the Adige valley is still firmly held while near H
Campo IVlulo, northeast of Asigio an Italian counter-attack H
was notably successful. H
Paris, June 7, 2:55 p. m. The French destroyer Fantas- H
sin has been sunk in a collision. Her crew was rescued. H
The Fantassin was built in 1 909. She was 2 1 4 feet long H
and 21 feet of beam and displaced 440 tons. She was armed J H
with six nine-pounders and three torpedo tubes. H
Paris, June 7, 12 noon. The repulse
of a powerful German attack on Fort
Vaux on the Verdun line with heavy
losses to the attackers is announced
in an official statement issued by the
war office today. Violent bombard
ment of the fort is still being carried
out by the Germans.
The attack on Fort Vaux started at
S o'clock last night and was prompt
ly checked by tho fire of the French
machine guns. It is announced that
the Germans retreated In disorder,
abandoning many dead. At HilJ 304
an artillery duel is in progress1 and
also at the Caurettes wood. Two
German patrols which tried to cross
the river Aisne west of Solssous were
dispersed.
The text of the statement says:
"West of Soissons two German pa
trols, which were endeavoring to
cross the Aisne, were dispersed neal
Fontenoy. The fire of our artillery
destroyed several enemy observatories
east of Navorennes.
"In the Argonno at La Fille Morte,
we caused the explosion with success
of throe mines. '
"On tho left bank of Meuse there
has been artillery fighting In the sec
tor of Hill No. 304 and in the sector
of Caurettes wood.
I Strong Attack Breaks Down.
- "On the right bank of the river a
strong German attack yesterday eve
ning upon Fort Vaux was broken by
the fire of our machine guns. The
enemy was driven back in disorder,
leaving numerous dead. The German
artillery responded with energy and
the bombardment of Fort Vaux and
the region immediately surrounding it
continues.
"In tho Vosges there has been an
intense bombardment of our first line
positions at Hartmanns-Weilerkopf."
Requiem Service for Kitchener.
Los Angeles, Calif., June 7. -A
requiem memorial service for Field
Marshal Lord Kitchener and mem
bers of his staff, who lost their lives
Monday in the sinking of the cruiser
Hampshire, off tho Orkney islands,
will bo held here Saturday morning
in St. Mathias' church (Episcopal), it
was announced today.
Turks Claim Russ Defeat.
Constantinople, June 7, via London,
1:40 p. m. A defeat for the Russians
attempting to advance on Bagdad is
reported bv the Turkish war office.
Near Khanikan about 85 miles north
east of Bagdad on May 21 says the
statement, the Russians were out
maneuvered by the Turks and their
enveloping columns dispersed and put
to flight.
uir
BULGARIA TO
RAISEWAR FUND
Issue of Treasury Notes, or
an Internal Loan Two
Methods Under Con
sideration. Sofia, Bulgaria, May 26. (Corre
spondence of The Associated Press)
Bulgaria proposes to meet the further
cost of tho war with funds raised at
home Instead of by loans mado In
Germany, as heretofore.. The sobnanje
which meets In the second week of
June, will be asked by tho government
to consider means of obtaining the
money needed for tho maintenance of
the array in the field. The iBsue of
treasury notes, or an internal loan
are the two methods under consider
ation. The discussion in the sobranjo of
war appropriations will give an op
portunity for tho opponents of tho
administration of Premier Radoslav
oft to be beard. It is not considered
likely, however, that any opposition
to the government which may de
velop will effect Its policy or change
the military aspect In the Balkan
peninsula,
BERLIN DECLARES 1 1
WARSPITE SANK I
H
German Battleship Koenig De- . M
stroyed Big British Ship Dur- B
ing the Day Battle. B
Sailors Report Uninterrupted fl
Fighting for Seventeen Hours tkm
Submarines Play Im B
portant Part. IB
Berlin, June 7, Wireless to Sayvillc. jH
The assertion that the British dread- H
nought Warspite was sunk In the f
North sea battle last week is again iH
made, notwithstanding British denials, llB
in dispatches from DIehl to the Over- lB
seas News Agency. 11
"These dispatches state that the lB
Warspite was sunk during the day IB
battle by the German battleship Koe- jH
nig" the news agency says. "It was , jH
observed from the Koenig that the I H
Warspite had been damaged badly. J H
Then there came a great explosion SB
and tho Warspite sank rapidly. SB
"Survivors from the German cruls- fB
er Elbing say that German submar- SB
ines played an Important part in the H
battle. The sea was thrown into com- M
motion by falling shells. Everywhere mm
bodies were floating. 'H
Fleet Did Not Flee. MM
"Sailors state that tho report that jH
the German ships fled is ridiculous. M
In the German fleet were several ves- , M
sols which were slower than the Brit- JB
ish and on that account it would havo M
been impossible for tho German fleet M
to escape if the result of Tbe-attle mm
had been such as to place the British M
in a position to pursue the Germans. H
"The sailors report that there was M
uninterrupted fighting for seventeen H
hours. They had no food in that time , H
except bread, which was passed once. i M
The sailors are in good condition and lM
do not look like men who have passed i M
through tho greatest naval battle over M
'fought" jj
oo iH
H DIRECTORS
MMED YESTERDAY I
;H
The annual meeting of the directors B
of the Ogden Union Railway & Depot gB
company was held yesterday. In addi B
tion to tho discussion of routine bus!- H
ness and reports, two new directors mu
were elected to replace H. L. Bell, jH
former representative of the Southern jH
Pacific railroad and now superintend- VW
ent of tho O. U. R. and D. company, M
and G. O. Brophy, former representa- H
live of the Union Pacific and now su- jjl
perintendeut of the Nebraska division 9-W
of that railroad. jB
The new directors are Fred C. Smith' H
assistant superintendent of the Salt H
Lake division of the Southern Pacific 1
and S. R. Touccy, superintendent ot H
the Wyoming division of the Union M
Pacific. B
oo B
CAPTAIN DECLARED I
MENTALLY UNSOUND 1
H
Dublin, June 7, via London, 12:20 I M
p. m. At today's session of the court jl
martial of Captain Bowen- Colthurst .. H
who Is accused of manslaughter for ' B
having caused tho execution during Bfl
the recent rebellion of F. Sheehy
Skeffington, editor of tho Irish Cill- ' !
zon; Thomas Dickson and Fred Mc- M
Intyre, physicians who had examined B
the defendant testified he was men- M
tally unstable. B
I jB
