HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
If j fcan nr( 'sta'e hi n 13-.-?
' x n psos, 41 0 Mexican gold
i ; N- ratF tli 114 Cairanza
J 1 -a (nrwi Bar Urer (H&n
v Harmon quotations) 65 Copper
1 T-ain. ttronx Livestock steady
WEATHER FORECAST
El Fsni and wnt Tex, fair: fw Mex
ico, fair; showers, southeast, Arizona,
fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. WEDNESDAY EVENING. JUNE 7, 1916.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
DELIVERED ASTWBERE SO CENTS A MONTH.
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY-
. 0. P. WANTS HUGHES BUT TALKS PEACE
Demonstration Lasts Hour
and 33 Minutes; Stopped
By "Big Stick"
LEADERSSTILL
ARE TRANQUIL
Declare No Nomination Will
Be Tolerated If There Is
Chance For Harmony.
ALDITORICM, Chicago, in, June
7 With a tumultuous demon
, strauon for Theodore Roosevelt.
the Progressive national convention
ipened here today while the Republi
can national convention was in
i ogress at the Coliseum Enthusiasm
for Roosevelt was precipitated when
iMnmond Robins of Chicago the tem
I' rary chairman of the convention, re
ferred to him as "foremost citizen of
i he world.
During the enthusiastic outburst for
Roosevelt, which Interrupted the
soee h of the temporary chairman.
there was every Indication that the
T regressive leaders believed thev had
Ihp pnnirntinn m Mn trnl alwl that no
i mmatlon for the presto'eney would
b attempted until conferences, al
readv begun with RejrTMtean leaders
1 f beei consummated.
rie '.onvention was called to order
v ictor Murdockr rrt Kansas, chair
i an of the Progressive national oom
j ltve. and his appearance on He plat
l rm. surrounded By George V Per
kins Oscar S. Straus, Hiram Johnson,
o Cilifornia. and other Progressive
leaders as 'h siErnal of the oonven-
B- t n prel r- -" iemonstration which
for mop than halt an hour
Merely Awaited Msmal.
Jjies the convention crowd seemed i
i" uu vt t-ii-ii& xui a atnai. 11 gvi . o
wnen th inalrman referred to xoose
e t as the world's foremost citizen.'
a J the demonstration followed.
Bn ne -s and stanch ion b were car-
r ed aoout the
hall by enthusiastic
delegate- and at 2.15 D m an hour
i a" er the Republican national conven-
ticn rta-o adjourned, the officers of the
tviivenuon still were waiting for the
Po"sevelt acclaim to subside.
be p-ogressive national convention
was iaJl"d to order by Victor Murdock.
c hair- ir of the Progressive national
loromm e today at U 27 oclock Tb
i -moristration was tremendous
The Michigan delegation, bearing a
1 uge hanner inscribed Roosevelt
ar led Michigan by 00 Out) in 191: and
-an carry t bv 100,000 m 1916." vu
T1 e firs l to form outside the audlto
r nni It started to march into the
buna rg through an adjoining hotel
vi ea us leaders demanded an out-i-M.r
demonstration
March In Rain.
Teoc is not afraid of the rain,"
t' 'i ited "Get out and march."
-o i" a bodv they marched out into
He -am shouting and Teddy, you're
a bear."
but Johnson. Progressive candidate
f"r vi-e president in 1911, stepped
ii tth into a seat in the California
o-lpation horUy before the conven
tion con1, "tied. Mrs. Johnson and a
jiaxty of friends occupied a box above
fie California group
The delegates exchanged yells In
coi fus on They stood and cheered
ai tvt oand iilajed "My Old Kentucky
I Hume n- a southern medley.
I'erklns Given Ovation.
Airo'-- Progressive notables on the
e .- i w-- James R. Garfield William
r rn aid ucar Straus. The last
j ar ed was cheered. George W Per
il. r'S was given an ovation.
ro'low rg the arrival of leaders, the
ba d plaved the Star Spangled ban
ner' wli le he entire throng stood
tt h bared h-ads. Mr Perkins was
cheer a freiuentij by separate dele
fT ora as some movement on his part
' facttd tneir attention
Vo brnpt Action,
Rr sorts that there micht be an in-
s stent demand for an immediate nom
ination of Col Roosevelt as notice to
the 1 epublicans that they could not
L- ignored, was discouraged ana al
most squelched by the statement issued
d' George T Perkins, chief spokes
man, who declared that the Progres-
iiM w-rt meeting In a conciliatory
spirit and would not act precipitately
v h l" tilt- rocsibilltv of agreement with j
the F.pLb nans remained. I
His staf-rrmt said I
At tht moment of the opening of I
te oiention the Progressives are
i-rr weh satisfied with the atmosphere
iur o..-d:i)g them and believe that a
pi ope' spirit has been created from
-tvh tlt result so desirable in the
best interests uf the country may be
i isllj obtained. "
lir ;v-jii! i was asked if COL Rooee-
li it -vo-id ..- nominated today
Thcrt is not a chance, he replied
"V arc rot going to take anv snap
judgment
Jubnsen Discourages Radical.
Gov Hiram Johnson of California,
h'ad of the mo' ement by insurgents
to rann birr for permanent chairman
sent word he would not be a party ta
disi-ord '
Ra1 i ord Robins stenoed forward to
FP ak -- tmnorarv chairman at 1 p. m.
n insurgent movement against tbe
electior or Walter Brown of Ohio for
. . .. ..,.w .....w. .,-...
perrnannt chairman was started quiet-
ly on tht convention floor It was 1
Some Folks Think Preparedness Is Just
ROOSEVELT TO ATTACK HUGHE
TIKI SO DEAD (EEfiiflNS REPEL
INGREATSTflRMi FRENCH ATTACKS
Arkansas Reports Alone In
dicate More Than 300 In
jured in Tornadoes.
Kansas City. Mo. June 7 Addi
tional reports from communities which
have been cut off from the outside
'world since Monday's storms were ex
pected today to increase the death lists
wel labove 150.
These included many killed and in
jured In a score of towns in Arkansas.
Mississippi. Missouri and one in Illinois.
300 Injured In Arkansas.
Little Rock, Ark, June 7 More than
360 are reported injured in the Arkan
sas tornadoes and many of these, it is
said, cannot survive.
Heber Springs, a resort town of 101
inhabitants on the Missouri and North
Arkansas railroad, suffered most se
verely. Twenty-five persons were
killed and more than 100 Injured
Bight of the injured are believed likely
to die The storm swept up a steep
hillside in the western part of the
town, demolishing 28 homes. A tel
ephone message from Conwav said it
was reported that 40 were killed or in
jured at Cato. near there, but it was
impossible to get in communication
with the town
Near Delark in Dallas countv. the
entire family of Mr. and Mrs. William
WoomacK perished in the storm, in
cluding their two daughters and one
soil Robert Wooroack. a nephew,
started for Delark to buy coffins for
the five bodies. He never arrived and
ills believed be was Unowned in cross-
j iB& a swollen stream
TEXAS BANKER'S
WIFE IS SLAIN
W illspoint, .Texas,. June. 7 Mrs. H.
F Goodnight, ages: 70, was killed, her
husband, who is president of the Van
Zandt National bank here, was fatally
injured aad their daugher, Mrs. R. J.
Moreau. was beaten into insensibility
- mrii uvmr; ci ivuaj.
The assail
ant apparently had used an axe No
motive for the crime is known There
were no signs of attempted robbery
R. J. Moreau, sonlnlaw, said be was
awakened about 2:30 oclock bv the
screams of his wife in an adjoining
room. He found her unconscious in her
bed Mr Goodnight was found in Tils
bedroom on the second floor Mrs
Goodnight was found in the cellar,
dead. Having been carried from her
bedroom on the second floor to the
basement. Her head was crushed in
the same manner as the other victims.
planned by radical delegates to pre
sent Gov Hiram Johnson of California,
bout We tant Teddy.
Cheering for the temporary chairman
lasted less than 20 seconds. Soon the
convention Settled down to listen.
After three sentences, temporary
chairman Robins introduced the name
of Col. Roosevelt. AH delegates and
spectators spranc to their feet, wildly
cheering and waving flags. At 1 06 p.
m. the characterization of Roosevelt as
the "foremost citizen of the world" was
the phrase that caught toe crowd. "Via
want Tedd," was the resultant battle
cry
AVont Repeat ame.
Chairman Robins was advised not to
repeat CoL Roosevelt's name when hs
nas able to resume He promised not to
do so The demonstrations had pro
ceeded 34 minutes. Convention officers
agreed that the delegation could not
havp hn rentmlriAH Inner from ininnc I
their demand for Roosevelt. i
Wave "Blc Mick" For Quiet.
The demonstration for Roosevelt con
tinued for one hour and 33 minues
Temporary chairman Robins resumed
his speech at I 37 p m He waved th.
"big stick' and the tired croad caught
tbe point.
Irogreafiit ea May Go It lone.
The convention cheered wildlv when
chairman Robins said that If need be.
'the Progressive party would go for
ward alone '
SUFFRAGIST PARADE IS
FEATURE OF FIRST DAY.
Chicago, III . June 7 Thousands of
suffragists, most of them clad in the
regalia of the National American
woman s sunlirage trBociation ana
recruited, it is declared, from every
state In the country, will march down
Michigan boulevard late this after-
noon to the Coliseum and there pres-
ent to the resolutions committee f
the Republican national convention an
appeal for the endorsement of equal
suffrage .
Tbe white column in a long line
spreading across the avenue 1 abreast
, with fluttering yellow banners and
I bands of martial music will be one of
the picturesque demonstrations of
f convention week Along the line of
cleared ana derated with flags and I
SrSST Part f ron,itwh,ch,ntheSmaersr
will emerge will be the reviewing '
area.
maroh n.f n KlAnlfa Tk .? nll TKj
Automobiles carrying pioneer 6uf-
fra gists will be the only vehicles n
the parade. Amone the nioneers are '
Miss Jane Addams, Mrs. Harriet
Smith. Mrs Ellen M. Henrotin. Mrs. I
Ella Stewart. Mies Mary E. Holmes !
-i. cT.ifc. mih .nary r. imini"
Mrs. Ceiia Parker Wooley and Mrs
Charles E Lane.
Report Victory Over the
Enemy in Hot Fighting
on River Meuse.
Berlin. German, June 6 French
troops on the right bank of the river
Meuse in the Verdun sector Monday
night made four determined efforts
to eject the Germans from positions
on Fumin ridge, says the official state
ment issued today at German army j
headquarters. AH the attempts were
repulsed by East Prussian regiments
with especially heavy losses, the state
ment adds, to the attackers.
German Attack. Ilepnlsed.
Paris, France. June 6 Two attacks
by the Germans on the French lines
between Fort Vaux and Damlonp on
the Verdun front were repulsed by the
French Monday night, according, to an
official statement issued by the war
office today The heavy bombard
ment of Fort aux contiinues, with
intermittent cannonading on the nest
front.
FIB REPEL
EOT IT VAUX
Paris, France June 7 The French
repulsed a powerful German attack on
Fort Vanx on Verdun line, with heavy
German losses, according to the wa
office statement today Bombardments
are still raging.
COL. ROOSEVELT PRAISES
SUDAN WORK 0E .KITCHENER
0 ster Bay N T, Jnne 7 Col Theo
dore Roosevelt has given out the fol
, lowing statement In tribute to lord
Kitchener
"Six years ago," he said. I passed
through tbe Sudan and was more deep
1) impressed than I can well express
by tbe extraordinary benefits secured
the natives of tbe country bj lorn
Kitchener's conquest and tbe adminis
tration of himself and of his lieutenant
and successor. Gen. Wingate.
'He rescued it from a condition of
chronic slaughter under which the pop
ulation bad diminished by considerably
more than naif, and of the younger
children over nine-tenths died of dis
ease or starvation. Tbe result of the
conquest was to establish absolute
peace and jnstice under the orderly
reign of law.
Kitchener and Wingate did in the
Sudan exact! what admiral Dewey,
governors-general Taft, Luke Wright
Smith, Forbes and their associates and
Gens. Wood. BelL Funs ton. Barrv and
others like them did for the Philip
pines.
FRANCE MOURNS TRAGIC
END OF LORD KITCHENER
Paris, France. June 7 France ' is
mourning the tragic fate of earl Kitch
ener. Premier Briand telegraphed the
following condolences to premier As
quith. "All France will regret from the bot
tom of their heart the loss of a great
chief who caused a magnificent army
to spring from British soil My coon
try will never forget that the, brave
and efficient organizer, whose prema
ture end it now mourns with the Brit
ish people, fought in the ranks of tbe
French army 46 years ago "
HEAVY CANADIAN CASUALTY
LIST IS STILL INCOMPLETE
Ottawa Ont, June 7 The Canadian
?o7P.ullh3eYVs
those already published which repot t
the loss of 180 Canadian officers in 1
the fighting along the Yores salient.
The lists are admittedly incomplete
Tbe trenches which the Canadians i
occupv jut into the German lines and
are exposed to fire from three direc
tions. The ground is so swampy that
deep trenches and underground shel
ters are impossible Parapets have
been constructed and these offer ex
cellent targets for German shells.
ONLY $248,587 WORTH OF
IMPORTS FROM MEXICO IN MAY
ports and imports handled by the El I
i"aso port during Mav. lSlt, according
to the report just issued by the local
customs cffice
The iriport" for this month total
$:4 '., while the exports are S210.071.
The imports for Mav 1915. were tl.922 -il
while teh exports were 1805.270
Tht decrease i attributed larglv to
conditions in Mexico
KAISER SAYS ENGLAND'S
SEA PRESTIGE DESTROYED
complete account of ?he ''emoeror-s
SSMf ""."n i -Vi..0,?
Berlin, Germany. June 7. In the
' speech to the sailors of the fleet at
" ilhelmbhaver Tuesday, whic h was
published here todav. the emperor is
quoted as saving that tbe great naval
battle off Jutland has destroyed Great
Britain s supremacv on the sea.
RUSS ANNOUNCE CAPTURE
OF MORE THAN 40,000 MEN .
Petrograd Russia, June 7 In their 1
new offensive movement the Russians
- 1
have captured more than 40,000 men it
v as announced officially todav.
FRENCH DESTROYER SINKS
IN COLLISION: CREW SAVED
t i-an. r ranee june i ine rrencn
J destroyer Fantasein has been sunk in
'a collision Her crew was rescued.
COLOIEL CALLS
'FLAG SPEECH'
FUTILE
More "Pussy -Fooling" Is
'Roosevelt's Idea of Justice
Hughes's Address.
BIG BROADSIDE
IN PREPARATION
Discharge Of Solid Shot Is
Intended To Eliminate
All "Pussy-Footers"
O
TSTER BAT, X. Y, June 7.
While CoL Roosevelt refrained
from making any public state-
meat officially disclosing his real atti
tude toward the political sltaation in
Chicago, it is well known to his !-.-ttmates
here that he is opposed to the
nomination of justice Hughes and it is
their belief that if Ungues B nomin
ated, CoL Roosevelt will himself be
come a candidate. CoL Roosevelt's fol
lowers here assert that reports from
his lieutenants in Chicago are favor
able to the colonels candidacy.
Speech Diiuatlifles CoIoneL
CoL Roosevelt, it is well understood,
is not at all satisfied with justice
Hughes's socalled "flag speech which
he is said to regard as merely a Fourth
of July address having no value as dis.
dosinic the justice's attitade toward the
real issues of-taejteyr in u,e words at
nis roiiowera nere. tne colonel regards
the speech as further- "evidence of
pussy-footing.''
CoL Roosevelt is reported felling
better today in recard to his own
chances of being nominated than at any
other time.
lllg Broadside Comicsr.
His followers look for a broadside
from him within a day or two which,
tbey sav. will be calculated to eliminate
justice Hughes and any other candi
date whom the colonel regards as rep
resenting the ' pussy-foot idea."
Confirmed By Delegate.
Chicago. Ill, June 7. New York Re
publicans supporting justice Hughes
said today that thev weret inform,
from reliable sources two days ago
that under no circumstances would
-OI Roosevelt support justice Hughes
if he were nominated by Republican
convention
S A
IAT1 ID
lEEDSTflSfflll PRINCIPLE
Progressive Convention "Keynoter" Asserts That Love
and Admiration For Men Must Be Put Aside For
Principle; Real Man Must Be Found to Lead Peo
ple "Back From Thei r Wanderings in 1912."
-HICAGO. I1L. June 7 The key-
note address of the Progressive
"" convention her.
today, dellevered by Raymond Rob- J
ins. of Chicago, as temporary chair- j
man, asserted in vigorous terms.
1 That the Progressives will stand
by the announcement made by the na- '
tional com-rittee last January that the
party will join the Republicans if the .
latter nominates for president a man ,
true to Progressive principles, I
2 That the principle, however, is :
neater than the nartv. and if need
be the Progressives will go oh alone. , J5" ,,sfato J tn ncftdn of the na
. . . r .. tion s life, and arouses suspicion as
3 That preparedness is the para- i to tne Kooa .,, !" ." ffiSSS- of
mount issu th uPsn and
4 That Theodore Roosevelt is the
man of the hour
' What this country needs now is a
MAN," announced Mr Robins.
Vmrrlcnl's Grentest Heritage.
"The noblest common neritage of
America is not her natural wealth nor
are her best traditions found in the
chronicles of her commercial greatness.
We may well confess that under other
flags, even under other national ideals.
American Ingenuity, industry and
courage might have achieved greater
material welfare for all her people.
and with her i6t natural reHurcea
sne might well have done away with
that grinding poverty that is now un
known in manv less favored lands.
We may take just pride in the lesser
achievements of our people in develop
ing the physical resources of a con
tinent, but not there lies the true
greatness ol America.
Selfish business and nolitica never
listed in the assets of America her
most valuable possession, the nrice
less heritage which alone is worth t.ie
sacrtflcal cost of preparedness to de-
cratic soul In this time it should b personal defeat and national degrada
,ii tw niain that uA ,.t .i... tion to arceDtdncc of the foremost
among the great nations not dom-
inated by the Ideal of Caesar v e i
have our ruthless master men. confi- j
dent of their right and ability to rule '
Striking Phrases From
Harding Keynote Speech
fcwrTHE country has regretted (1912); let u forget aDd make amends
I to our country."
"2o party can endure which ia not progressive."
"EveryUiing is abnormal except the depleted condition of the federal
treasury, which is characteristic of Democratic control, and the facility of
the administration for writing varied notes without effective notice."
" there is a warning in bleeding Europe, and there is a call today for
prudent, patriotic and ample national defence."
"We proclaim justice and we love peace, and we mean to have them
and we are not too proud to fight for them."
"Our armed defence must ever be linked with our industrial self-reKaaee,
and the nation worth dying for must first be worth living for."
"....I prefer a protective and productive tariff which prospers America
first."
"Xo one disputes a temporary prosperity in oar land today. But it is
sectional in its factory aspect, abnormal in its fevered rush, fietittous in its
esceatiak, and perverting in its tendency. Worse, it is the gold sluiced from
the river of blood poured out by the horrifying sacrifice of bhUmbs of our
feUowmen."
"If we are to urge the world's attention to international justice we must
hold secure our civil justice at home and make social justice and attending
welfare typical of our national life."
" the few zealots of any origin who violate our neutrality do not and
cannot imagine the loyalty of the American patriotism of that great body
(of immigrants)."
"....we have hungered in ram for that unflinching AmericanUm at
Washington which is needed to exalt the American soul."
"The unbiased critic will recite that the Democratic administration first
coddled Villa as a patriot, then chased him as a bandit."
''We believe in American markets for American products, American: wages
for American workmen. American opportunity for American genius and in
dutrv, and American defence for American soil."
'FORGET DIFFERENCES, IS PLEA
IF IlliCimiTE SPEECH
Ohio Senator Opens Republican National Convention
With Appeal for Harmony and An. Arraignment of
Democratic Policies; Says Mexican Nego-
tions Great Fiasco. '
CHICAGO, ILL, June 7 With a plea
for party reunion, for reconsecra
tion rather than recrimination.
United States senator Warren G Hard
ing, of Ohio, in his address as tempor
ary chairman, opened the Republican
national convention here today Assert
ing that the country was "wearied
afresh by a disappointing and distress
ing Democratic administration," and
was calling for Republican relief the
speaker before undertaking to discuss
political issues, appeals to the dele-
TO
their fellows, but thev do not rule
" yet-
Must Be Prepared.
-A competent program for national
Preparedness must comprehend and
meet the sociaL economic, and sDirit-
ual needs of the people. Mere military
preparedness alone is inadequate for
the safeguarding of the nation's life,
even In time of war The final issue
of the titanic struggle that now con
vulses Europe will be decided in the
homes, workshops, fields and labora
tories of the peoples now at war Any
program for national seuritv In time
I of war that does not involve social
and economic security in times of
its advocates.
oeiieve that tbe need and op-
- imiuuiiy ui me time is sucn inat per
sonal differences, partisan bitterness
and local prejudices should be surren
dered to serve the nation s highest
good. We should not be parted by
mere names, however dear, nor by past
resentments, however justified
ee Surrender Principle.
"But we should solemnly warn all
those of an easy and accommodating
DOlitical virtual that we will not sur
render principle nor make unworthy
compromise to gain a meaningless and
Ih political victor j We would
rather face possible defeat fighting
for our cause than to seek assured
i victory through moral treason to those
high principles and heroic souls th t
combined to make us the second party
of this nation in 1912 The 4 200.000
vote-s who followed our leader and es
poused our cause can be augmen' d
i to a majority perhaps more easily an-
der united banners but if need be the
Progressive standard will go forward
alone We canont believe that a rule
or ruin faction will dominate the po
litical machinery of the historic party
of Lincoln and that they will prefer
leader p of the nation But in this
r and hour it should be made plain
that the choice Is in our hands and
( Continued on rase S Column 1)
Hiring Somebody Else To Fight
gates to forget the dlflerenetes which di
vided the party in 1912.
Referring to the administration's
foreign policy in the Buropean war sen'
ator Harding declared that it had
spoken with more rhetoric than resolu-
lion. Mexican negotiations he described
- .". " - - - -
as the greatest fiasco in American for
eign relations. He mid tribute to
Americanism of forelcm. birth with brief
reference to the few zealots who would
Impugn the nation's neutrality and
urged a fraternity of American republic
under the Monroe doctrine.
- Advocating adequate national defence
he charged the Democratic party with
having interrupted Republican naval
construction and he criticised the army
reorganization MIL He also attacked
the administration shipping bill, the ef
fort made to extend independence to the
Philippines, and made a plea for a re
turn to the protective tariff
Hopes for Harmony.
' We did not do very well in making
for harmony the last time we met," the
chairman said in bis appeal for har
mony "The country has regretted, let
us forget and make amends to our
country We did not divide over funda
mental principles, we did not disagree
over a national policy We split over
methods of partv procedure and pre
ferred personalities. Let us forget the
differences, and find new inspiration
and new compensation In a united en
deavor to restore the country
"Republican principles are in a vast
majority in this country, when the ban
ners of harmony are unfurled. We have
witnessed the comeback of our party in
various states. We have seen the re
enlistraent of those who believe in Re
publican doctrines, and victory has fol-
ZZJ!L? i... ?. .5i,E?.. A,-I..,
fi,?fJ?JSbe,.aei..n?Kl0,;!i,Ie?::
ing required. This is not tbe time for
the recrimination, it is tbe day or re
consecration. "Rededicating here and now the Re
publican party to the progress and glory
of the republic let us bury party pre
fixes with the administration which onr
differences put in power I do not be
lieve there is a really reactionary Re
publican bearing credential to this con
vention. If there Is, he v-ill depart, after
our deliberations soleH and proudly a
Repnbllcan. with heart aglow with the "V ,!,", lnl-, convention p.
party spirit of 1916 nd the welcome fl""1 . c2.,d. Ln continued to sweep
nartv SDirit
delegate wno empnasnes nt progres
sivism. is expected to do his part in
making our party a reflex of the best
thought and best intent of sincere com
mittal to the uplift and progress of the
American people thereby strengthening
nartv purpose instead of magnifying in
dividual belief, and he. too. will find
(Csnlinard on Fare Z Column S)
Some Fads About
The Big Convention
Number of delegates ?S
Majority only necessary to a,
choice.
Delegates chosen by primaries:
613. by convention" 373
Sixteen candidates will be placed
before the delegates.
Nominating speeches It minutes,
seconding speeches. S minutes.
Convention expects to get down to
nominations on Friday
In 38 years every Republican pres
idential candidate has been chosen
on first ballot.
13.100 persons can be accommo
dated In the Coliseum
4004 persons can be seated in the
Auditorium, where the Progressives
are holding their side show
Republicans Cheer Harding's
Speech; Temporary Or
ganization Follows.
PATRIOTISM! IS
PRINCIPAL THEME
Nominations May Not Come
Before Friday Or Satur
day, Leaders Predict.
C0LJ3BOX. Chicago. I1L, June 7
The first session of the Republican
national convention closed this
afternoon without a demonstration In
favor of any candidate for the presi
dential nomination, but there were in
dications that the sentiment for justice
Hughes was growing At the same
time, it was understood the Prog res
Sives were crystallizinsr sentimei t
I against Hughes and tn feeling in t' -I
Republican convention was that i'
' possible, a union of Progressive and
Republican forces should be effected
The main events of today In the Re
publican convention were the keynote
speech of senator Harding, the effect
ing of a temporar organisation and
the adoption of rules
Talk Of Peace 2a In Air.
Overnight conferences among tbe
leaders failed to develop any definite
plan os which they could agree on a
candidate who would receive the un
divided support of both factions, but
talk of peace was in the air. The, urn
posal to save both conventions appoint
,, - - --- v v v va V WM wv ws
i conference committees was beinc dis
cussed on both sides and some of the
Repnblican leaders persisted in their pre
dictions that ultimate' there would be
harmonious action in some way
The convention leaders themselves
were so engrossed in petty details or
getting under wav, taking care of deli
gatioas from their own states, and
guests, that they had little time for
further serious discussion of candidates
and realized that the consideration of
. the question had actually moved to the
conventlons themselves
Huxhes Sentiment Strongest.
If a ballot could have been taken
Tuesday night the consencus of the po
litical managers indicated that it would
be about as follows
Hughes. 361. Weeks. 10. Roosevelt,
9S. Cummins. SI' Fairbanks. 80. Burton.
70 Sherman. 58 Knox. 51 Root. 4!. La
Follette. 28, Scattering, 57 Total. 983.
May ot dominate Intil Friday.
Some of the Republican leaders felt
today that their convention might not
proceed to nominations before Friday
and even later, if prospects of harmonv
dev eloped at the last moment. The
"favorite sons" were considering the
question of holding their own support
ers if the nomination were to be de
layed beyond the time originallv
planned. Most of the Republicans have
agreed that a presidential candidate
would be nominated Friday but some
predict it will be Saturday, and there
are others who feel that the prospects
of pea e negotiations at the Uth hour
might even throw the convention over
Into next week
nughea's Strength Increases.
If there was any change at all in the
lineup, overnight it showed an increase
in strength of Hughes. For the most
part the figures of the managers of
favorite sons booms were not changed
There was not a sign of a demonstra
tion or a band plaving until an hour be
fore the time of assembly. Lack of
demonstration has been one of the
unique features of this convention pe-
the citv Delegates were a soaked and
bedraggled looking lot as they marched
Into the convention hall
Ford For llnsfaev.
It is reported that Henry Ford has in-
atructed the delegates instructed for
him that after the first vote bas close i
but before it is announced thev shall
change to Hughes.
Messrs. Penrose Lodge. HiUhtocK
and other leaders took their seats un
noticed There were large vacant places
in the galleriea.
Rain Drenches Delegates.
The -an was falling on the ticket-
holders waiting at the various entrances
I when an bonr and a half ahead of the
' moment set for the convention to i.onw
to order, the doors were flung open The
' favorite sons" delegations were placed
directlv before the speaker s platform
and began on the riKht with Michigan.
Missouri Illinois Ohio New York
Pernsvlvania and Iowa
I Ther was a noticeable lack of
demonstration for well known men am.
I the convention was very quiet Frank
' H. Hitchcock, the chief Hughes boomer,
1 said that the Hughes men would con-
, trol the committee on resolutions.
The band played the 'Star Spangled
Banner at U 2; At 11.33 chairman
Hilles brought down the gavel. This
brought applause
Delegates Stag 'raerlca."
Chairman Hilles amid
The hour of 11 oclock having ar
( Continued on Page 3. Column -i.)
