.i ad
ft
I
VOLUME XXXVII.
PRESENCE OF MIND
-AVERTS BAD WRECK
CONDUCTOR ON OMAHA SAVES
PASSENGERS' LIVES BY
QUICK WORK
FORMER NEW ULMITE HAS BEEN
IN SEVERAL RAILROAD
DIASTERS
To the presence of mind of Conductor
Joseph Weber, formerly of New Ulm, is
^reattributed the prevention of a loss of
life and a serious wreck on the Omaha
road four miles south of Mankato last
Thursday evening, when an entire train
of steel cars went over on its side.
Conductor Weber was in the baggage
car, when he noticed a peculiar grind
ing of the wheels. Without hesitation
he pulled the emergency cord and brought
the train to a stop within its own length.
Eight of the cars were derailed, how
ever, only the diner and mail car re
maining on the rails. Only three
persons were slightly injured and taken
to a Mankato hospital. The cars were
tipped on their sides and leaning up
against the side of the embankment in
several places. Others were flat on
\hei sides. The fact that the train
was made up of cars of steel construction
no doubt prevented a more diastrous
wreck.
The track was torn up to such an ex
tent that the trains during Thursday
night had to to be routed by the way of
New Ulm and from here to St. James
over the Minneapolis & St. Louis.
Friday forenoon a temporary track was
constructed, enabling trains to pass.
This is not the first wreck Mr. Weber
has been in, although he is regarded as
one of the most efficient railroad men on
Title Omaha and the wrecks never could
be attributed to his carelessness or
negligence. The worst wreck he was
in was about three years ago, when two
cars of the same train wrecked last
week went into the ditch at Mendota,
causing the death of several people and
injuring a score or more. At that time
the cars left the track at a switch and
plunged headlong into a deep gully.
The cars stood on end and the tangle
human bodies was frightful.
Speaking of the recent wreck in an
interview with the Mankato Review
Conductor Weber said: "I was in the
baggage car at the time and the train
was running along nicely until we crossed
the Pigeon Hill crossing about a half
mile east of Minneopa Falls, when all
of a sudden the baggage car in which I
was riding began to bound and scud
along the ties. I grabbed the emer
gency cord immediately and pulled the
1 same which brought the train to a stand
still in its own length.
I "Then I went outside to see what
damage had been done, and found the
'i entire train derailed. After assisting
$ in getting the people out of the train,
I found that there were but three people
slightly bruised and that no medical as
sistance was necessary.
"I attribute the saving of lives to the
splendid equipment of the train which is
absolutely steel construction through
out. If the cars had been of wood, the
loss of life would have been tremendous,
^v^and the number of injured would have
been large, for the train at the time of
the wreck was running about forty miles
an hour.
"Passenger train No. 12 had just
preceded us to Mankato. As soon as
I saw how luckily we had all escaped, I
went to the home of F. J. Melvin just
across the tracks and telephoned to
Mankato that no medical assistance was
needed, but to send out a train to pick
up my passengers. No. 12 backed up
to the scene of the wreck and picked up
the passengers and proceeded to Mankato.
"I consider the wreck a very fortunate
one indeed, and you can bet your life
I if it had not been for the splendid steel
equipment many of us would not be
here to relate the story. As it was I
had a lively time of it dodging trunks in
the baggage car for a time," said Mr.
Weber in closing.
Mr. Weber is a son-in-law of Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Fortwengler of Cottonwood
township and well known in New Ulm.
Two hoboes were picked up by the po
lice last Wednesday in the southern end
of German park, where they were in hid
ing after having appropriated a pair of
overalls and other articles from the garage
of Jos. Karl on South Minnesota street.
They had asked for permission to seek
shelter from the rain and then showed
their appreciation of hospitality by taking
along whatever happened to be handy.
They spent the night in the county jail
and|were[then told to vamoose.
rtu. Ml
IMPORTANT BUSINESS TO COME
BEFORE MEETING
Business of great importance is to
come up at the regular monthly
meeting of the Commercial Club this
evening and every member has been
especially urged to attend, as this prob
ably will be the last regular meeting
until after the summer months.
Among the matters to come up are the
arrangements for the auto tours which
are undertaken by the business men of
the city every summer. The towns to
be visited and the time of the trips will
be decided upon. The community pic
nics also will be taken up again and it is
probable that a picnic will be arranged
for after harvest time. The good roads
committee has an interesting report
ready also the committee on the estab
lishment of the central heating plant.
The "White Way" committee, which had
the raising of funds for the establishment
of ornamental lights to the depots in
hand also will report on its activities.
ENGINEER DECIDES
TO THROW DP JOB
STREET COMMITTEE ASSUMES
CHARGE OF ALL GRADING
AND OILING.
CONFLICT OF AUTHORITY HAS
CAUSED TROUBLE WITH
STREET FORCE.
Relations between members of the
city council and the city engineer, which
had been somewhat strained since the
first session of the new council when the
engineer asked for and was refused an
increase in salary from $110 to $150 per
month, came to the breaking point dur
ing the past week and resulted in the
resignation of F. D. Minium, the resig
nation being filed at the office of the city
clerk Friday morning.
While Mr. Minium gives as reason for
resigning the fact that he has too great
an amount of private work to give the
affairs of the city the attention required
by the council, there probably would not
have been a break had not the street com
mittee practically assumed charge of the
work supposed to have been done by the
city engineer. Mr. Minium left for a trip
to Watertown, S. D., last Sunday morn
ing and notified the street commissioner by
mail Monday not to do any street work
until his return Wednesday. Street
Commissioner Scheman showed the let
ter to Alderman Filzen and the latter
took it upon himself to issue orders to the
street commsisioner, ordered out the
teams, roller and oiler and has practical
ly been in charge of the street work since
that time.
Mr. Filzen states that he simply was
doing his duty as a member of the city
council. "I saw there was no one to give
orders to the commissioner and the teams
were idle and I simply put them to work."
Mr. Minium states that the reason for
his resignation is the continual "butting
in" of the street committee into work
he had been undertaking. Whether this
was accident or design he was unwilling to
state, but it often happened that he had
ordered the commissioner to do certain
work and waited for the arrival of the
men and crew only to be informed later
on that some member of the street
committee had given other orders.
It is also possible that a further reason
for the resignation is the fact that Mr.
Minium's salary was not raised to $125
a month after working for a full month
exclusively for the city as tentatively
was the understanding when the new
council fixed the salaries of the city offi
cials at the first meeting. "I worked the
whole month for the city and would have
accomplished a whole lot more than I
did were it not for the countermanding
of orders, but the size of the check was the
same the first of the month—so what's
the use," said Mr. Minium. "I have
enough private work to keep me busy
in New Ulm and am going to give that
my attention from now on. If the city
needs my services at any time, I am glad
to take care of that too."
Talking of the instance on Monday of
last week Mr. Minium claims he had in
structed the street commissioner to grade
Washington street preparatory to oiling,
fill up the holes in the street with gravel
and put on the roller. When he returned
to the city Wednesday morning, he found
the teams and oiler at work on the road
to the Loretto hospital, which stretch
of street, Mr. Minium claims, is not ready
for grading and oiling at the present
time and the work done is money wasted.
The resignation was to come up at the
meeting of the city council last evening
and no doubt was accepted.
ACTIVITY OFWOMAN
SUBJECT OF ESSAYS
GIRLS FIGURED PROMINENTLY
IN ANNUAL GRADUATION
EXERCISES.
PROF. TODD IN BRIEF ADDRESS
REMINDS YOUNGSTERS OF
FUTURE DUTY.
Judging by the graduation essays de
livered on the occasion of the com
mencement exercises of the New Ulm
High School, woman is rapidly becoming
conscious of her own possibilities, even
in New Ulm for certainly the young
ladies upon whom devolved the duty
of representing their class at the exercises
had little to say concerning the place to
be filled in the world by their school boy
friends and a great deal to say concerning
the future activities of Woman. It
seems that for some years the chivalry
of the boys of the high school has pre
vented them from carrying off the class
honors so long as there were young ladies
in the class to whom said honors might
more properly fall and it would seem
that the young ladies have become more
or less "set up" over the fact and the boys
have for several commencements both
literally and figuratively taken a back
seat. A glance at the program will show
how the salutatorian and the valedictor
ian carried out the prevailing idea of the
times in their selections of topics for
their graduation efforts.
The first number on the program was
a violin solo by Victor Reim which called
for an encore. Ruth Catherine Olsen,
the salutatorian, talked on the change
in the manner of educating girls of today
and those of earlier years. She showed
the valueof a collegeeducation to a girl in
whatever line of endeavor she may choose.
Her enunciation was distinct and her
points well made and all who listened
might well go away much better informed
as to the status of woman in the educated
world.
The girls Glee Club furnished the next
musical number followed by the valedic
tory delivered by Stonia Adelaide Kunze.
Here again Woman came into her own.
Miss Kunze sketched the reasons why
woman has not advanced farther into
the business world. She showed that
the positions taken by women workers
have always been those under the autho
rity of some man who directed their
efforts, and then detailed the various
changes woman must make in her nature
in order to place herself in equality
with the men among whom the rushing
current of economic strife throws her.
She must play this man's game in the
man's fashion, employing his weapons
to force her way to the front among the
employers of labor and the directors of
large enterprises. Her remarks showed
an unusual understanding of the problem
that woman must face and solve in order
to become successful in the world of busi
ness.
The Boys Octett rendered two selections
before Supt. Hess introduced the speaker
of the evening, Prof. A. J. Todd. The
Continued from Page 4.)
Ideal weather prevailed for the open
ing of the concert season at German park
last Sunday evening and a large and ap
preciative audience listened for upwords
of an hour to the music furnished by the
A cable message from Liverpool was
received in the city yesterday to the
effect that LoTd Kitchener, the British
minister of war, and his entire staff were
drowned off the north coast of Scotland.
Later newspaper dispatches have con
firmed the report, adding that Lord
W* Jv*«9.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1916.
BIG CROWD HEARS CONCERT
MIXED PROGRAM IS NEXT
1. March "Caesar's Triumphal" Mitchel
2. Overture "Poet and Peasant" Suppe
3. Descriptive Paraphrase, "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep", C. Lovenberg
4. Wald Piece, "Pfingsten ist gekcmmen" E. Kiesler
5. Temp de Marcia, "Red Feathers" G. B. Mann
Intermission.
6. Characteristic March "Sliding Jims" Losey
(E. Vogel and Geo. Crone.)
7. Overture "Barber of Seville" Rossini
8. Air de Ballet, "La Torpille" Losey
9. Polka de Concert, "Two Little Bullfinches"
(Duo for Piccolo and Clarinet, Sergt. P. Kitzoerger and Jos. Tastel.)
10. a. March, "The American Up to Date" J- S. Duss
"Star Spangled Banner."
KITCHENER AND STAFF DEAD
MANAGERS PLEASED
WITH 0" PROGRAM
AN UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS FROM
FINANCIAL AND SOCIAL
VIEW POINTS.
LECTURES BOTH INSTRUCTIVE
AND ENTERTAINING IN
EVERY INSTANCE.
University Week was an unqualified
success both from the standpoint of
education and entertainment and from
the financial point of view, the com
mittee reporting that the attendance
was sufficiently great to cover the ex
penses and those attending the sessions
expressing their approval of the programs
as arranged and rendered by the Uni
versity Extension Division.
Prof. H. C. Preston lectured at the
club rooms of the Commercial Club
Wednesday morning, taking for his
subject "The Cost of Retail Distribu
tion." Although the attendance was
not so great as could have been wished
for, it was a representative gathering,
Prof. Preston told his audience of the
various ways of combating the en
croachment of catalog houses upon the
local field and always came back to the
fact that proper newspaper advertising
is the only remedy. His remarks were
rather a revelation to those who have
an impediment of speech when it comes
to paying for putting their name and
business in public prjnt. Beneficial
results, both to the merchants and to
the newspapers should be expected from
this lecture.
The program at the Armory Thursday
and Friday consisted of musical and
dramatic numbers by the Lyric quartet
of the University and the Maximilian
Dick orchestra, preceded by a lecture
on ^'The Lyrics of Shakespeare" by
Prof. James Davies and the meetings
closed with a lecture by Prof. W.
Plummer on "Spain and Spaniards",
recounting the aggressive policy of the
once powerful nation, its defeat upon
the high seas by England and its gradual
decay, which lately, however, is giving
way to a new life and enterprise. The
people of Spain today are forgetting
their pride and are beginning to know
that there is something else to live for
than to perpetuate the history made by
their forefathers.
Probably the most interesting and best
received lecture of the week was that
given by Rev. Herbert S. Bigelow of
Cincinnati, than whom there is none who
speaks with such startling straightfor
wardness upon the issues of the present
day. His lecture "The Religion of In
spired Politics" bristled with pointed
original sentences upon which he then
elaborated and proved their correctness.
Behold the fowls of the air they sow
not nor reap—but they do.
Consider the lilies of the field they toil
not, nor spin—but they do.
Behold the fowls of the air, they sow
and they reap and they gather into barns
and not a lazy sparrow of them waits for
a father's dole of food.
Consider the lilies of the field they
Second Regiment Band. The concerts
will be held regularly every Sunday
evening from now on for ten consecutive
Sundays.
Next Sunday's program follows:
PROGRAM.
Kitchener and staff were on their way
I to Russia, presumably for the purpose
I of directing the Russian campaign,
against Germany. The news dispatch
adds that the transport carrying the
English lord and party was torpedoed
by a German submarine. S A W A
fit
ctmtt
toil and they spin, gathering jewels from
beds of muck and weaving them with
threads of sunlight into garments of
white and gold.
Every creature in God's universe
works save a few men who are the bene
ficiaries of some unjust law which per
mits them to live by the sweat of other
men's brows.
Blessed is the man who has a job, a job
that he loves, by which he renders to
society useful service and for which he
receives an honest wage.
Colonel Goethals got $15,000 a year
for building the Panama Canal.
Young Vincent Astor got $800,000 for
doing nothing. If young Astor had
earned his inheritance building canals
at fifteen thousand dollars a year he
would have had to begin work seventy
two years before Noah was born.
If a man will not work, neither should
he eat. That text applies to hobos in
Pullman cars as well as hobos in box cars.
Some people think that chopping wood
(Continued on last page.)
WHITE AND BLACK
IN CUTTING AFFRAY
COAL SHOVELERS ON RAMPAGE
GET AFTER EACH OTHER
WITH KNIVES.
BOTH LAND IN COUNTY JAIL
WITH GASHES ON HEAD
AND THROAT.
Trouble between the white and colored
races is not confined to Dixie land and
the two do not seem to be able to mix
worth a cent when representatives of
both races are employed on the same
job. This was evidenced by a cutting
affray which occurred in one of the
boarding cars near the Northwestern
coal chutes east of the depot lastTUbnday
evening shortly after dark, when a
colored man known only by the nick
name "Yellow" and Dick ("Slim")
Sloan, a white employe of the coal furnish
ing company, started to settle the race
question by at tempting to eliminate each
other from this vale of tears.
The trouble evidently had been brew
ing for several weeks and there had been
bad blood between Slim and Yellow
for some time, the white man claiming
that the colored man was shirking his
end of the job and not "breaking down"
the coal. Yellow denied this and since
that time there has been an armed truce
between the two, the white man keeping
in close proximity to the butcher knife
and the colored man wearing a pocket
knife in his bootleg.
Monday afternoon things came to a
climax, when Slim again criticised his
fellow workman for soldiering on the
job. Yellow took in a lot of territory
in recounting the alleged social standing
of Slims ancestors and punctuated his
remarks with a crack over Slim's head
with a broken piece of sewer pipe. Things
moved with a startling rapidity from that
moment on. Slim seized the trusty
butcher knife and Yellow met him half
way. The rest of the coal handlers
tumbled from the car and in a minute
the East End was in an uproar.
Some one telephoned for the police,
who arrived promptly and soon had the
scrappers in durance vile, taking them to
the county jail where their wounds were
dressed and both put safely behind the
bars. Slim had a gash two inches long
on the left side of his throat, another on
his chin and a bump on his forehead
while the colored man received a stab
in the back of the neck. Neither of them
was seriously injured.
Although no direct complaint has been
made of the conduct of the crew, it is
said that the carousals indulged in by
them have been very disagreeable to
people living in the lower part of the city.
Beer generally was purchased by the keg
and whiskey by the jug and there never
was a lack of refreshments in the board
ing car.
The coal shovelers are not employees
of the Northwestern road, but form a part
of the crew employed by Hamlin Bros,
of Kansas City, Mo., contractors for
furnishing coal to railroad companies.
According to members of this particular
crew, they were shipped out of Kansas
City about May 2 and sent to La Crosse.
From there they went to Rochester and
for the past few weeks have been in New
Ulm. This is not the first fight they have
been in.
As the charge against the two fighters
no doubt will be a serious one the local
authorities will await the arrival of Coun
ty Attorney Frederickson, but it is ex
pected that they will be arraigned some
time today,
jr
*».r f.Jj iv
HiSVORICAL
„„,
NUMBER 23
CITY WATER SUPPLY
GIYEN STATE TEST
CONCLUSIONS ARE AT VARIANCE
WITH FACTS GIVEN IN
FIELD DATA
SUPPLY IS FOUND ABSOLUTELY
SANITARY STILL NOT
RECOMMENDED
Members of the water committee and
health officer are at loss to understand
a report received a few days ago by the
city officials from the state board of
health, ostensibly showing the condition
of the city's water supply, but in reality
being so inconsistent and at variance
with the facts as to make it practically
worthless, until further explained by the
state board.
According to the report the investiga
tion was made at the instigation of the
M. & St. L. Ry. Co. on April 20, and the
report is dated May 23rd.
After reviewing the conditions sur
rounding the water supply of the city
in a four page preamble and finding every
thing absolutely in sanitary condition,
the water absolutely free from the bacillus
coli, a germ to which typhoid fever is
sometimes traced, the director making the
investigation winds up in the following
recommendations and conclusions:
"The permanent construction to be
placed on the top of the casing for well
3 (College Hill) should be installed as
quickly as possible.
"Recommendation 5 of the previous
report should also be complied with,
unless the local authorities have decided
to follow their plan of making the cisterns
water tight by lining them with con
crete and. filling the area around wells
1 and 2 with clean sand. Data collected
at this time indicate this plan to be satis
factory if properly carried out."
According to Supt. Mueller and Health
Officer Seifert the recommendations made
by the state board of health last Decem
ber were complied with in every instance
and even this last report in its field data
so states. The cisterns at the pump
station have not been in use for nearly
two years and have been filled with sand
since early last fall. There is no possible
chance of contamination at the plant,
the city officials claim, and the condition
of the water bears out this contention.
The field data contains this astounding
information: "Instead of abandoning
the cisterns beneath the pumping station
filling them with sand, as recommended
in the report of December 10, 1915,
the local authorities have decided to re
tain them and make them water tight
by concreting the interiors." Where
the investigator received this data the
city authorities are at loss to under
stand. There never has been any in
tention of using the cisterns again and
no one ever thought of "concreting the
interior." The suggestion had been
made, according to Health Officer Seifert
to concrete the top of the cisterns, so as
not to allow water to percolate through
the covering of sand, but the interior
never was considered.
Appended to the report are the follow
ing conclusions: "The field survey showed
conditions were unsatisfactory from a
sanitary point of view, while in the anayl
tical results indications of contamination
were not found.' This supply therefore
can not be considered safe for public
consumption in its present condition."
Health Officer Seifert met with the
water committee Monday afternoon
and with them went over the situation
thoroughly. City officials were of the
opinion that the requirements of the
state board of health had been met in
every possible manner and that the con
clusions formed were not based on facts
evident from field data. The committee
decided, however, to put a thick concrete
covering over the filled cisterns, although,
this has never been asked for by the state
board.
The two sentences which are absolute
ly at variance and conflicting read as
follows: "The analytical results showed
the water to be of good sanitary quality"
and "This supply was not recommended
for public consumption."
The state board of health has been
appealed to for a more definite construc
tion of its findings.
Reports that the so-called fishermen's
case was to be tried this week were with
out foundation, neither the county at
torney nor the attorneys for the de
fendants seeming very anxious to go
ahead with the case at the present time.
County Attorney Frederickson is of the
opinion that the newspapers should be
given full opportunity to try the case
before it is taken up again.
*3 1
