e-Hs a
I
5
p,'*
r',
EVENING
EDITION
VOL. 11, NO. 135.
OF PIATFORM
Demonstration for Colonel
Lasted 45 Minutes—
Wild Scenes.
Chicago, 111., June '7.—An outburst
of enthusiasm marked the opening of
the Progressive, convention when
Temporary Chairman Robins men
tioned the name of Roosevelt. Dele
gates and .spectators sprang to their
feet, wildly cheering and waving flags.
An insurgent movement against the
selection of Walter Brown of Ohio,
for permanent chairman, started
quietly on the convention floor.
Radicals planned to present the
name of Governor Hiram Johnson, of
California, but Johnson sent word
that he will not be a. party to discord.
"We want Teddy," screamed the
crowd when Robins spoke of him as
the "foremost citizen in the world."
The demonstration lasted 4 5 minutes.
The tentative draft of the Progressive
platform, framed ly the committee
loaders today, showed (hp principal
appeal of the party to be made on
preparedness with Americanism' as a
foundation. Thed^ft,Jp short noj,
over 1,50.0' Wrds Tn'.length. Jt dis
cusses preparedness under three
-heads:-
1
"Military," "6f the spirit.'- and "in-
d«str^:}
ynder "Spirit"
Americanism, tfiider industrial pre
paredness comes tariff'and questions
sof social and industrial reform. Much
of the 1812 platform Is omitted from
the draft, but there is a general re
iteration of lis principles. "The draft
will be submitted to the resolutions
committee in the regular course of
proceedings, hut it is believed by its
framers that it will go to the con
vention in about the shape now
drawn.
ORGANIZATION
IS IH WAY
Convention Adjourns Till
Tomorrow Morning—
Harding loudly Cheered
Chicago, June 7.—The Republican
national convention adjourned at 1:25
p. m. until 11 a. m. tomorrow.
Senator Warren G. Harding, as
temporary chairman, brought loud
applause when he appealed to the
party to forget their differences, and
restore the party. Frequent applause
greeted his demands for "a defense
such as Washington urged." He
spoke one hour and 20 minutes.
Sustained demonstration greeted
Harding's declaration for a navy -that
feared none in the world.
Chairman Hilles submitted a rec
ommendation for temporary officers,
and on motion of Senator Smoot, the
roll was called for the nominations of
committee on credentials. Senator
Liippitt moved that the rules of the
1908 convention govern the conven
tion pending the adoption of rules.
'Motions also were made' for the ap
pointments of other committees.
A motion to adjourn waa made and
prevailed without opposition. Sever
al conferences and informal meetings
were to be held late today, and to
night. The adjournment followed the
usual preliminary organization work-
FOR 30 BODIES
Many Believed to have Been
Drowned When Steamer
& Capsized.
Memphis, Tenn., June 7.—divers
today began the search for the bodies
of thirty or more .persons who are be
lieve* to have been drowned when
the Itamtr Eleanors capsis&d nsar
Plsajant View, Tenn., in Monday
night's storm- Two bodies were re
covered last night. Two other white
men .and about tO negroes still are
mlssliig.
ft ,w,r, r,
f\£V'**$r T' *r '"j- 1*
4
.v
Convention Sidelights
HUGHES MEN CONDIFENT.
Chicago, June 7.—The report that
Roosevelt had said in Oyster Bay that
he would favor a third party ticket if
Hughes were the republican nominee
brought forth a statement from the
Hughes in'en. Governor Whitman,
leader of the Hughes delegates, smiled
when told .of the report. He claims
that Hughes has 68 majority on the
second ballot. He 'said he knew noth
tng of the report, that Hughes would
not. run if a third party' entered the
race.
NOT TO SUPPORT HUGHES?
Chicago, June 7.—New York sup
porters of Hughes say that they were
informer from reliable sources two
days ago. that under no circumstances
would Roosevelt support Hughes if he
were nominated.
DENIES FORD REPORT.
Detroit, June 7.—Henry Ford's sec
retary today denied the report that
Ford had notified the Michigan dele
gation that they should vote for
Hughes, after they had voted for
Ford on the first ballot.
HADIiEY NOT TO ATTEND.
Kansas City,- June 7.—Herbert S.
Hadley, delegate at large to the re
publican convention, and a prominent
figure four years ago, will not be able
to attend the convention on account
of ill health.
SUPREMACY Of
Emperor William so De
clares in Address to His
Sailors.
INSIST THAT
WARSPITE SANK
Berlin Declares That Eng
lish Navy Was Unable
to Pursue.
Berlin, June 7—In a complete ac
count of the emperor's speeoh to the
sailors of the fleet at Wilhelmshaven
yesterday, the emperor Is quoted as
saying that, the great naval battle off
Jutland has destroyed Great Britain's
supremacy of the seas.
Insist on Report.
Berlin, June 7.—The assertion that
the British ship. Warspite was sunk
In the North sea battle Is again made,
notwithstanding British denials, ac
cording to dispatches from Kiel. The
dispatches say the boat-was sunk dur
ing a day battle with the battleship
Koenig. It was observed from the
Koenlg that the Warspite was badly
damaged, and then came a great ex
plosion and the Warspite sank rapid
ly. Sailors deny that the Germans
fled. They saj' that some German
ships were slower than the British,
and it would have been impossible
to escape If.the result of the battle
had been such as to permit the Brit
ish to persue the Germane
Pennsylvania Ccll^Siies
Face Serious Tieup in
Work. 'f#
•VrKK*.' '•!,
Wilkes Barre. Pa., June 7.-^The Le
high and Wilkes Barpe coal com
panies are facing a strike of SO,000
miners unless 'officials recede from
the stand they have taken on the
eight-hour day plan under the anthrax
cite agreement recently effected. Al
ready thifee collieries, employing
4,000 men, are Idle.- The men have
repudiated union officials and say
they will not .return to work till the
company grants the, demands.'
The companies tnslst that the m|n
ers remain at thjslr plaoes In the nilnss
eight hours, whkhor aU coal available
ia mined or not« The men insist upon
the right to go hpme, They, aire paid
by contract, atod not by tha day.
Hundreds !,
lV,,.
I11-
fi.fr
uk
aoosEvaT is
MAN Of HOUR,
SAYS ROBINS
Progressives to Stand by
Republicans if They Nom
inate Right Man.
MUST BE TRUE TO
THIRD PARTY IDEAL
Preparedness is Paramount
Issue—Country Needs
Man.
a
Chicago, June 7.—The keynote ad
dress of the progressive party's na
tional convention here today, delivered
by Raymond Robins of Chicago as
temporary chairman, asserted in vig
orous terms:
1. That the progressives will stand
by the announcement made by the
national committee last January that
the party will join the republicans
if the latter nominates for president
a man true to progressive principles
2- That the principle, however, is
greater than the party, and If need
be the progressives will go on alone
3. That preparedness is the para
mount Issue of the campaign and
4. That Theodore Roosevelt is the
man of the hour.
"What this country needs now is a
man," announced Mr. Robins. In the
course of his speech he said: "Now
as we are met again in natlonalcon
ventlon there comes to us once more
a common knowledge that in 1912 we
'sounded forth a trumpet that shall
never call retreat.' And we know
that we are here to write a record
that shall witness alike to the faint
hearted and the skeptical and to the
great army still faithful to the cause,
that our vision is yet undimmed and
that our standards have not been
furled.
"But the noblest..common heritage
of America is not her natural wealth
qor. are tor beat traditions found-to,
the chroMejM
greatness -We
under other flags,
national ideals. American ^ingenuity,
industry, and courage might have
achieved greater material welfare for
all her people, and with her' vast
natural resources she might well have
done away with that grinding poverty
that is now unknown in many less
favored lands. We may take just
pride in the lesser achievements of
our people In developing the phystcal
resources of a continent, but not there
lies the true greatness of America.
"Selfish business and politics never
listed in the assets of America her
moBt valuable possession, the price
less heritage which alone is worth the
sacrificial cost of preparedness to de
fend against the world—her democra
tic soul. In this time It should be
all too plain that we stand alone
among the great nations not dominat
ed by the Ideal of Caesar. We have
our ruthless master men, confident
of their right and ability to rule their
fellows, but they do not rule us yet.
"We gather to determine' our pro
gram to meet the practical needs for
national action In this time of havoc
and horror in other lands. And it is
well that we should approach our task
with the vision of a better day. We
may well resolve that no worse day,
with havoc and horror In our midst,
shall be known to us or to the coming
(Continued on Page 3.)
IMAM
DEMAND WOMEN
Of CONVENTION
Appeal for Endorsement of
Federal Suffrage Amend
ment Made.
Chicago, June 7.—That the appeal
of the National Woman's party for
the indorsement of a federal amend
ment for suffrage, to be made by
Chairman Miss Anne Martin of Ne
vada, at the republican convention
this afternoon, will not be made to
the assembly as a political faction, but
as a "gathering of influential mem
bers of the party," was the announce
mtfnt of the officers of the woman's
party today.
Miss Martin will appeal to the
members of the :party to use their
Influence In an effort to secure Im
mediate action in behalf of the newly
organised body of women.
"'She will not 'aak for a plank In the
republican platform, nor for prom
isee, but for instant action." was the
announcement from the headquarters
of 'the congressional union.
THE WEATHER.
North Dakota: Generally rair
tonight and niursday. Not much
change in temperature.
•|E:
•».«. Mj maxim am mini
~i44 southwestwlnd, 4 mllea
.M
DID YOll^l
r* -wr-',
1 NfiJ „1W *M
fi
rt
•SCI"
J-
1 HJ
BRITISH ARMY
MOURNS LOSS
Pays Silent Respect, as Ac
tivities of War Are
Continued.
London, June 7.—The British army
went into mourning today for Its late
ehief. Every officer wore. crepe.
Flags were at half mast. There was
no suspension of the prosecution of
war activities, and department offi
cials are working oqt the details of
schemes Kitchener had 'formulated.'
Cablegrams announce the adjourn
ment of legislatures as a mark of re
spect.
Newspapers and commercial organ
isations have taken up the demand
for the internment of aliens'from
enemy nations.
Premier Aaquith temporarily is in
charge of the war office.
it
1
•"&.£y-
GRAND FORKS, N. D., WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 7, 1918.
,•»*
=f:»..r-
CALLS G. O P. CONVENTION TO ORDER
Charles D. Hilles Wielding Gavel,
As chairman of the republican national committee. Charles D. Hilles
called the republican convention to order this morning:. Hilles posed for this
photo in-Chicago a, few days ago. in the picture he is seen with the same
gavel he used in calling the big meeting to order.
RESOLUTIONS COMMUTE WANTS
TO MET ROOSEVELT DEMANDS TO
MAKEDEUAIUTIONSVERYSntONG
Chicago, June 7.—With the members of the oommittee on resolu
tions all selected by their delegations, it is becoming evident that the
work of the committee as a whole will he one of elimination rather
than of construction. Almost every man on the oommittee Is loaded
with planks of his own making, annds, who feel called upon to out
extra declarations fOr outside fried many of them have taken care of
line the policy of the party for the next four years.
If there is one general purpose better defined than any other on the
part of leading members of the committee, it is to give party dec
larations such an advanced tone as will meet the demands of Roose
velt and his followers and to this end they made a dose study of the
colonel's recent utterances along the lines of preparedness.
"We shall meet the colonel's wishes in this respect, and will en
deavor to make the pronouncement so strong that he cannot afford to
oppose any man that may be placed in nomination." said Senator
Smoot. who, although not a member of the resolutions-committee, is
in close touch with what is being done towards framing the platform.
"We shall declare for a navy that will be a real protection, both in
size and efficiency, and up to the latest requirements, and for such
other military measures as will meet the demands of all emergen
cies."
A
At the suggestion of -the Jockey
club, the Windsor ma meat this
week was cancelled on account of the
at O a it he
ROOSEVELT IS
NOT IN FAVOR
OF C.E. HUGHES
Makes no Statement, But it
is Well Known to
Intimates.
Oyster Bay, June 7.—While Roose
velt refrains from making a state
ment, it is well known here to inti
mates that he is opposed to the nom
ination of Hughes. Their confident be
lief ia that if Hughea is nominated
Roosevelt will be a third party candl
date.
Roosevelt, it is well underatood, Is
not at all satisfied with the Hughes
"flag apeech,' which he la. said to re
gard as merely a Fourth of July
apeech, having no value at disclosing
the justice's attitude toward the real
Followers here say he regards the
speech aa "evidence of pusay-fifrotlna"
to ijphloh- attitude he is oppoaad In a
timfck of the country's crialai
•••-•o'.-J.-yVrT fT, W'
fNa COMMITTEE NAY CONTINUE PARLEYS
thest ends off the hall.
Suits This Alontli Fifty
23Noftb ThW Sti
Police Have to Clear Aisles so Delegates Can Find Sec
tions—National Committee Had Brief Sessions
and Approves Temporary Roll of Delegates.
Chicago, June /.—The Republican and Progressive
national conventions opened here today an hour apart with
growing hopes of harmony and the possibility that this
week may see the end of the bitter feud born here four
years ago.
Leaders of both factions, seeking beds at dawn todav.
did so with settled convictions that incidents which would
become historical in American political annals were im-'
mediately impending.
Rain which began yesterday noon continued over
night and today. Flags, buntings and streamers hung wet
and dejected. Policemen, physicians and nurses furnished
for emergency purposes, were at their stations early.
Early today there was considerable talk of peace plans
among republicans-and progressives, although it was said
nothing definite had been decided upon.
Bo|h sides? seemed desirous of bringing about har
'AThe'-plan-is said to be to.- harve both cort
^entiefns appoinfa harmony committee as soon as practic-"
able. It is pointed out this plan is more satisfactory than
having negotiations continued as now without definite au
thority from the delegates.
POLircTE WORK DESPEH ATEI/T TO CLEAR A1SI/ES.
Twenty minutes before the hour set for the convention to be called
to order great reaches of vacant seats marked liic floor and frailer
les. As the band played, the police tried to make the delegates
crowding the nislep. take their scots. Favorite snsi. delegations were
placed directly before the speaker's platform, and began on the right
with Michigan. Missouri. Illinois, Ohio. New York, Pennsylvania and
Iowa. The seats were filled.
An order was jriven to clear the aisles at 10:59 and police began ..
moving out all who are not delegates aud forcing the delegates to their
sections.
Sergeant-at-Aims Stone asked the delegates to be seated, his
voice being carried above the noise of conversation and the cries of
assistants on the floor.
Eleven o'clock found the aisles still crowded with delegates who
were making every effort to get, seated.
lvACK OF DEMONSTRATION.
There wd.s a noticeable lack of demonstration for well-known
men. Senator Liodge came quietly in and took his seat unnoticed.
The same was true of Senator Murphy, Governor Whitman and other
well known men.
A "great fight." said Murphy to Secretary Reynolds, as he sur
veyed the crowd from the speaker's platform.
Frank H. Hitchcock, chief Hughes boomer, said the Hughes man
would control the committee on resolution.
Hitchcock said, after receiving reports from the caucuses held
yesterday and last night, that, the Hughes forces would see that the
platform -contains a vigorous declaration for national defense, cou
pled with strict and Impartial neutrality, so far as conflicts with other
nations are concerned.
The republican national committee held a brief session at which
the temporary roll of delegates and alternates finally was approved
and votes of thanks given Chairman Hilles. Secretary Reynolds,
Treasurer Sheldon and Sergeant-at-Arms Stone for their services in
connection with the work of arranging for the convention.
HARMONY CONFERENCE NOT MENTIONED.
The question of naming a harmony conference committee to meet
with a similar body representing the progressive national convention
was not discussed, according to Clialrman Hilles. Chairman Hilles
conferred on the platform with Sergeant-at-Anns Stone and Secretary
Reynolds, as the band played, while more attempts were made to get
delegates seated.
Chauncey Depew was the first, of the well-known men to be re
celved by a delegation of spectators as he made way to the first row
of the New York seats. A round of hand clapping greeted him, and
Senator Penrose got a hand from his delegation.
The. band played the Star Spangled Banner at 11:40 and every
body arose.
NO EVIDENCE OF MARKED CHANGES.
As the republican and progressive conventions assembled today
there was no outward evidences of any marked changes in the situ
auon. Overnight conferences of leaders failed to develop any iMbKk
Plans on which they could agree on one candidate, who would receive
the support of both factions, but talk of peace filled the air. The pn»
posal to have both conventions appoint conference committees waa dla- ,,
cussed on both sides and some of the republican leaders'insisted ultl
mately there would be harmonious action In some way.
Convention leaders themselves are so busy with the petty details
or getting the convention under way that they had little time for tar
ther discussion of candidates, some of the republican leaden felt
today that their convention might not proceed to nominations until Fri
day. or even later if prospects of harmony are developed.
ir there was any change at all in the line-up over night. It show
ed an increase in the Hughes strength. For the most pan the a*oiea
of the managers of favorite sons have not cNuiged. k&a
Not until an hour before the opening 'of the convention did tha
parades and crowds throng the streets.
The first loud cheers greeted Senator w»r«Hng
speak. Mrs. Murray Crane of Massachusetts, Senator Borah of Malm
and W. B. McKinley of Illinois were selected to escort the mnwfcw to
the platform. Applause greeted the mention of all names, as Cbalfw
man Hilles announced them.
Chairman HlUes presented him in a few words, nrnslrii BMte
bowed and smiled and plunged Into his prepared speech, nadlng float
the manuscript.
Chairman Mules left the chair temporarily, and many leaders talk
the opportunity to confer while Senator Hardhac noke.
Applause punctuated Harding's speech as dla some deaaouatta*
ttona, bnt on the whole the convention listened quietly while ha ml.
There were cheers when he declared the country was Co# a
publican administration and when he asked all to forget the Uhn
monlous convention of four years ago. n*s refarenoe to the needaf
preparednessfor national defense was greeted wltha roar of
and when he said. '*1 know the remhHeaa party. to he
gresslve as well as efttllia" When he nMnt*MWd At
there was another demonstration. As Senator Hartthg spotacL he 3
his prepared address In his hand, bnt rarely rrtened to It. He f«~~
the text wlthhardly a attpaf one
EVENING
EDITION
rm
TEN PAGES—PRICE FIVE CENTS.
LITTLE DEMONSTRATION MADE AS
PROMINENT MEN TAKESEATS HUGHES
MEN COMT Of THE NOMINATION
when
..
ft
?r
he aroae to
his •o
