THE BARMS ; DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 71.
BAHRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1916.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
HOPEOF
UNION
GROWS
Republicans and Progres
sives at Chicago Gave
Strong Indication This
Morning That They Might
Get Together and End the
Four Years' Feud by
Agreeing on Candidates
fan
V -v
I '
rope who made a common cause. Since
that time, lie said, America' gate had
swung: inward to the foreign-born and
"they are an inseparable and important
and valued part of our American citizen
ship, and the few zealots of any origin
who violate our neutrality do not, and
can not, impugn the loyalty or the Amer
ican patriotism of that great body which
adds to the Dwelling chorus of "My couu
try 'tis of thee, sweet land of liberty."
CALLS ROOSEVELT
"3IAN OF THE HOUR"
ASQUITH TAKES
THE WAR OFFICE
British Premier Tempora
rily Assumes Kitchen
er's "Position
NATION IN MOURNING
FOR GREAT MAN
FAITH IN PREDICTION
STRONGLY BASED
Republican National Con
vention at Coliseum and
Progressive Convention at
the Auditorium Opened
To-day One Hour Apart
Less Bitterness Shown
Chicago, June 7. As the Republican
and the Progressive conventions assem
bled to-day, the first at the Coliseum and
the second at the Auditorium, there was
, no outward evidence of any marked
change in the situation over night. Con
ferences among the leaders failed to de
velop any definite plan on which they
could agree on a candidate who would re
ceive the undivided support of both fac
tions; but talk of peace was in the air.
A proposal to have both conventions ap
point conference committees is being dis
cussed on both sides.
Most of the Republicans agreed that a
presidential candidate will be nominated
Friday but some predict it will be Sat
lirday, and there are others who feel tha
the prospects of peace negotiations at the
eleventh hour may even throw the con
vention into next week. - If there was
any change in the lineup over night it
showed increase in the ''strength
Hughes. For the most part the figures
of the "favorite son" managers were un
changed.
Hew York Republicans supporting
Justice Hughes said to-day that they h,
been informed from reliable sources that
under no circumstances would Roosevelt
support Justice Hughes if he were nora
inated by the Republicans.
Republicans Very Quiet at Outset.
Practically all the Republican delegate
were in their seats at 11 o'clock. There
was no demonstration, and it was de
flared to be the quietest convention ever
fceld. Lodge, Crane, Penrose, Hitchcock
and other leaders passed to their seats
without recognition but there waa some
applause from the New York delegation
when Depew arrived.' During the early
hours the report became current that
Henry Ford had notified the Michigan
delegation, instructed to vote for him,
that after the first vot..waa closed but
before the result was announced they
should change to Hughes. '
Chairman Hilles of the Republican na
tional committee called the convention
to order at 11:30. After prayer by Rev.
John Stone of Chicago the delegates were
photographed and then Secretary Rey
nolds, amid cheers, arose and read the
tall. Chairman Hilles then presented the
name of Senator Warren G. Harding as
temporary chairman, and Harding waa
elected without opposition.
Senator Harding's appeal to the party
to forget differences and restore tie
party was loudly applauded. Other tell
ing points in his speech, noticeably his
demand for a defense such as Washington
urged, brought frequent outbursts of ap
plause. There were cheers when Senator Hard
ing declared that the country is calling
for a Republican administration and also
when he asked all to forget the inharmo
nious convention of four years ago. More
applause greeted -his declaration that
"this is not the time for recrimination;
It is the day of reconse oration."
Tremendous Enthusiasm By Progressives.
At 12 o'clock about half the Progres
sive delegates had arrived in the Audi
torium, and it was evident that the open
ing of the Progressive convention would
be late. It was 12:27 when the conven
tion waa called to order by Victor Mur
dock, chairman of the Progressive na
tional committee, amid a tremendous
demonstration. Raymond Robbins of
Chicago waa elected temporary chairman
cf the convention and delivered an ad
dress. George W. Perkins, the chief apoke
rnan for the Progressives, declared:
'There is not a chance of Roosevelt be
ing nominated to4ay.. We are not going
to take a snap judgment. The Progres
sives feel that the first peace move should
cose flea the RcjiitizcaAi lit 1 L .'-k it
SENATOR HARDING
Temporary Chairman Republican Convention
possible that the Progressives will make
the first move."
The tentative draft of the Progressive
platform, framed by the committee
leaders to-day, showed that the principal
appeal would be made on preparedness,
with Americanism as a foundation.
DECLARES COUNTRY
"WEARIED AFRESH"
BY DEMOCRATS
Senator Harding of Ohio, Temporary
Chairman, Said the Nation Is Calling
for Republican Relief Appealed to
Convention to Forget 1912 Feud.
Chicago, June 7. With a ilea, for
party reunion, for reconseeration rather
than recrimination, United States Sen
ator Warren G. Harding of Ohio, in hi
address as temporary chairman, opened
the Republican national convention here
to-day. Asserting that the country was
"wearied afresh by a disappointing and
distressing. Democratic administration"
and was calling for Republican relief, the
speaker, before undertaking to discuss
political issues, appealed to the delegates
to forget the differences which divided
the party in 1912.
Referring to the administration s for
Raymond Robins of Chicago Opened Pro
gressive Convention with Keynote
Speech of the Bull Moose
Party.
Chicago, June 7. The keynote address
nt 4 l. D.!.!,.. .... 1 i.,u I ,.nn.
vention here to day, delivered by Kay- mrillSn reOUltJ jr XOT ill'
monu itootns or Chicago as temporary , .'t A 1,V
chairman, asserted in vigorous terms: ternmeill VI AUCIia Hum
1. lliat the Progressives will stand by
the announcement made by the national
committee last January that the party
will join the Republicans if the latter
nominates for president a man true to
London. June 7. fine tintisn
Enemy Nations
GOOD CONTEST
IN SPEAKING
Marked Opening Event of
Spaulding High School's
Commencement
Dwinell; "The First Settler's Story,"
Bern ice L. Davis) "Tha Montmorenci
Election," Percy M. Kelleyj vocal solo,
I Know a Lovely Garden." Mildred GUI;
"Alias Civilisation." F. Beatrice Miles;
vocal solo, "Tell Me, Beautiful Maiden,"
Ciraea M. Ramsdell; "A Nation Under the
Uah." Bernard L. Davie j "Sonny, Jean
i . Movie.
f . i. u i : .. i . I
jiiib juiciiuoil llic scruo Picrffnrs, til I T .
which the junior clansmen proceeded to JOilQ Klley CrOt P ractlireU
"take off" the graduating class, were . , ,
ROCK "SLIVER"
STRUCK HEAD
PURO'S REMAINS
IDENTIFIED AND
Operating Table
MISS GRACE BIXBY
WASFIRST FOR GIRLS
GIVEN BURIAL HE WAS EMPLOYED AT
.WETMORE & MP
Deane C. Davis, First, Boys-
Marguerite Currier arid
Richard Cruickshank, 2d
Prize speaking of high order at the
Proo-ressive nriiicinlca I London. June 7. i-The British army
2. That the nritieinle.
bnwever. ia wenk into moiirniiiir to.dav for it late opera bouse last evening ushered in
greater than the party, and if need be chief, Karl Kitchener.' Every oflicer wore Spaulding high .school's annual com- "e "j"a fJ-
Ii.. n i 'sit . t I. t i . . menromont. woV. Allit.ratinn'a artful OBal enectS found
urn i riKrcsmves win go on aione; . in, obihi hi crcm mi mi m, aim, i - - vu Vinner waa
throughout the country the flags were " "i w ejinnieu oi necesmiy, out. ;
i i , rf - t If la UUrl h I n ,wia that 4 ho Tr. 1 -,u '"" "
nail-masieu. i nere kb. nowevwr, u i
Quarryman Apparently Was on His Way
from Graniteville to Concord, N. H on
May 26 When He Met His Fate 43
Revealed By Finding of Body in
River Yesterday.
Identification of the body given up by
Stevens branch yesterday at a point just
beiow tiie i row & Huluen dam w&vs com
pleted late in the afternoon when An
drew Vinner, a Graniteville quarry work
er, recognized in the misshapen features
of the face and the distorted figure a
man named Adolpu J'uro, who left Mill
stone hill May 25. Upon examining per
E'S
Stone Was Be' Hoisted
and a Piecr oke Off
. and7 Him
John Riley, aged 35, a quarryworker
employed by the Wetmore &. Morse Co.
in Websterville, sustained a skull frae-
J. lliat preparedness is the para
mount igsue of the campaign; and
4. That Theodore Koosevelt is the
man of the hour.
"What this country needs now is a
man," announced Mr. Robin. In the
course of his speech he Raid: "Now as we
are met asain in national convention
nd in the man's pocket ture at 7:30 o'clock this morning when
convinced that his tirst la "sliver." or fragment, of n rtnit
correct. .The clothes worn which waa beiW hoit f..,.i, hi,
suspension of iivlt having to. d ces, th. rst of wsok erowdw, h -
with the prosecution pf the war, and at graduation events, were perfectly planned , fr, ,.v.u ... as c&iiea ana the injured man was
the ofllce and other govemmenUl de- fw pleasureable evening. Musio by the MJ .'" nht m.i. r" . . to .the Clty ho8l,ital v'hit'
nartmeuta the officials continued, to work Rfls' glee club intempersed the elocu- . , Although no doubt remains a to the comb's motor ambulance. Death came
out the details of the schemes formu
lated by Karl Kitchener. Fremier As-
ltionary numbers' and
heartily applauded.
all
alike were identity of the man, the circumstances to Riley as he reposed on the operating
UP "m " Hutmtt. iaDie at the Hospital a few momenta be-
there come, fo us once more a common ouith temnorarilv takes nersonal cbarsre the prases should have been as- """-"'.' "ru",B, I : . eioc. r rom the outset, it seemed
ko.o.l in 10I w. forth I At th. -.V offl. . signed in the order mentioned below"" Da wmpainoi, i uro ien uranue- that his injuries would be faUl.
a triiranet that shall never call retreat. By the king's command, the following emed eminently fitting and the verdict ""'.V" " . " i' Acooraing to the statement given out
And we know that we are here to write order waa issued to the army: brought in by the judges waa warmly re- ' - " - ' t tne quarry this morriThg, Riley was
a record that shall witness alike to the "The king has learned with profound u. ""f1" r "' " : x- u .v,,.h '7 t . . K'l'"K g"g oon n-
faint-hearted nd the skeptical and to regret of the disastec whereby the aec- r V" . W 8pke u comrenia H lef t f 'lanite ville with a I tl. ? Ue 8unded-
retjtrv of ntntM for war ha lost h life 1 ucniirnutn ( xnrKingiuiif , un , ... ; , . ... ui ime iw ousi, me caoj re-
wbWoteXo Prias for girl, to Mis.Vguerite I'V ' .Mr h tr. ths blasted
the emoeror of Rushia. Liirrier, wnoe seiecnon was -xaptaini , Vr. V , . own aiscnargea, tne men issued torth
. . . . ..i i... .,. ti.-it i-t ti . i DarLinir ixtaruer. nc lmerreu inai. lie nau - - j . e .
Field Marshal Lord Kitchener gave 48 ,.""":' " 0" . l"'V'",,J"' J- " . ia ,i;.n " " n-uim mgnai irom a,
the great armv still faithful to the cause
that our vision is vet undimmed and
that our standnrds have not been furled
But the noblest common heritage of
America is not her natural wealth nor years of distinguished service to the C"ndler Davis, who delivered Stafford's 8 J" " !V,t"m"JJ'an on th S P' indicating that a
are her best traditions found in the state, and it is laruolv due to his ad- snd the Jews," received the first """" 'I-1:"" Wne waa to
be hoisted. It is
chronicles of her commercial gratn. ministrative genius an unwearying en. pn. i w boys and tlM! second honor went . v ZZ.t ll to UUd that the gang, M ith the execptwn
We may well confess that under other ergy that country Us been able to J Rlrd I CYu.ckahank. who spoke "By ' t6"or J ' lZe ot thAtLVr f l7' a'" for Mtfr; AP"
flags, even under other national ideals, create and place in.tbe field the armies 'f1-'- Jhe w1rd" w,ere,"n: hJ ,JZ un tKlTLd of hi. whefe' Parently Rl!y WJ e rear and when
American ingenuity, industry and conr- which to-day are upholding the tradi- n""10. bv Agnes M. feafford of ' ! 'e )Z1"-Ve fhe rtceivri the second signal, be
age might have achieved greater material tional glories of our empire. Lord Kitoh. Montpelier seminsry and the other judge. fl d.,?'a have glanced skyward. At that
welfare for all her people and with her ever will be mourned by the army a. a JT tJ. X'n mucHl ZTZl "ffi o'f Van1t7.l
vast natural resources she might well great soldier, who, under conditions of " r.a8, J ftP'j f r 'f n hj t Finland the land of his ?e f" lla'?,"ent of granite, fell
have done away with that grinding pov- unexampled difTiculty. rendered supreme fh.ooL. ,M.1M !affor(1 8tated th,t the 2Ii.? lnland' tne iana of 1118 from the larger stone and struck the
pled difficulty, rendered supreme
erry tnat is now unknown in many less i and devoted service both to the army
lavorea lands. He may take just pride land the state.
n the lesser achievements of our people "His majesty the kintr commands that
ui oeveiopiiig me pnysiou resjurces oi a the officers of the avmy shall wear
continent, but not there lies the true mournimr with their uniforms for the De
grenmess oi America. rl0d of one week. Officers are to wear
'.Selfish business and politics never Cren on the left arm of uniforms and
I' A - t ' tl
iistea in trie assets oi America ner mosii(jreat coatg.
eign policy in the European war, Senator finable possession,- the priceless hen- From allied and neutral countries, do
Harding declared that it had apoken with tage wliicli alone is worth the sacnllcial I minions, colonies and dependencies came
more rnetoric man resolution. Jiexican prepareunew to neiend against a flootl of cablesrrams exores nc svm-
negotiations he described as the great- the world her democratic soul. In this twthv. The nrwsnHticrs and many com-
est fiasco in American foreign relations, time it should be all too plain that we
He paid tribute to Americanism of for- tand alone among the treat nations not (demand for the immediate internment
eign birth with brief reference to the few dominated by the ideal of Orr-sar. Wef aliens from enemv nation on tlie
1 - A- I. I J 1 . J I ... I U ... .1.1 i J. , Al
zeuious who wouiu impugn tne nation s - r ruiinpfs iistrr men, connoent i ground that the Germane may have been
. i : . - t t . r . .... . c I f .:.Lt I ., i. ; t : .. . . , I . ... . . ... J. .
u. unm.tj. kiiu iirfceu irmeriuiy oi nS.n. miu oimj in ruic uirir I advised, from Kngland Of Kitcbeiiers de
American republics under the Monroe lenows, out they do not rule us yet. Inartnre and that sinHn1 knowledca may
doctrine. Advocating adequate national "We gather to determine our program have been responsible for the destruction
ucit-irati lie cnuigtfu me jTiiocrai.ic party 1 1" uteri, n.tj pittci,ici iit.'t.'(ia lor national i0 the cruiser HamkSIlire.
with having interrupted .Republican na- action in this time of havoc and horror 1 -re Orkney islands off which the
val construction and he criticized the in other lands. And it is well that we tramn.hirii went rfown are off the north
army reorganization bill. He also at- should approach our task with the vision Lt of Scotland. The Hampshire was
, a . . I ., . i u .. j ...;..:.... t ; . . i. : . . . : t.:it ' . . i . it. .. 1 1 , i ......
miiicu i.ic auiu.iiisiitit.ijii BiiiiiiiuiL; uiu, ... n in un unv. c iiibv virii rsmiivr m. k,. I,, At.Iant ft untl around
the effort made to extend independence that no worse day, with havoc and hor-jtile northern end of tho Scandinavian
to tne rnilippines, and made a plea for a ror in our muHH, shall be known to us or peninsula into the White sea. Earl
. . . . 4 1.. ....... . ..... . a . ir i . , . A .. ..... . .... a: . . i. . i ' ..
. -iu.it t.u t,..c ,iuiei.iiB utrin. ft" liir vuiiuiif Knvii,vi, aim mm, Kitchener nrobab v ntended to debark
" ,i , .1 .. ... ,i. ...... ....ii : 1- siiaii . ...... : . i .
i.ti u.u t.v.1, i.w tniy well ill Illttiviliu n iwi i I'. all lit IJ.rritr lit A ?-h a n n ..I
f.. - 1. .. . l... a: . ,, I . . . . : i : . I"" "
uai iiiuu v tuts iu.ai. iiiiif we met, tiie ui Kit-wi. iiiiuti italics.
tiittiiiiinn jam hi ins appeal for narmony.
judges' det'isions were unanimous. " . ... . - (man in the head.
Only one circumstance necessitated a I . f ',B ta at tne omce ot ec. r.vv. lle g removed to a cot in the office
.hanifB in ih nrorram Th ill no, of suitor or ine quarry oncers internation- .j . vrrtr ..n , ; f, rw
Miss Madeline Nicholson MacDonald pre- ."laiion snow tnv t uro joinea tne A and gn ambulance. Riley is said
vented her lrom delivering "the pear r""' " i have practically retained conscious-
Story" (Riley). ad classmates of the r n came to America. Puro was around neM ,nd when tho phvgk.ian arrived.
young woman as well as many other J" ""arose from a reclining condition on the
rnends.expreseed sini'cre regret over fieri ' "v , " "
.,;.Li,u . k.,. ttj- 4u jir---i 1 o-day inquiry at the Central Vermont
una iwiuifio buvuiuxi L li'ir.i hitj uiict - i . l
tion of Mi .Tosi.r.hin K. Ilnvr. director station developed the information that
of mueio in the city achools. a chorus of '" whose signature on the baggage slip
21 girl student contributed greatly to "'"'"g T"c lo concora, rs. ti., re-
tho Bniormetit of h enn no. Tisr 1 v.uoiru riuut (uwcispu as it, upers
Blanrh R.ip1I rtt arrentahlv aa e. 1 n the Socialist due book found on his
eompunist and the work of the glee club person, checked his grip to Concord on
1 .... lL ..'Li j? t na t l - T J I
reflected a good deal of credit on the di- u'K'n m 4- ",u,s rya aoes
rortnr and her a.aistant. not recall the appearance of the man
couch and spoke a few words, scarcely
intelligible, to the men. A cursory ex
amination disclosed a skull fracture and
it) was in the faint hope that the man's
life might be saved by a delicate opera
tion, that he was hurried to the hospital.
Within 28 minutes after leaving the
quarry, it was said, Riley was on the
operating table. -
The deceased had been a resident of
In Mendelseohn'. "Spring .Song" the Sea te Baggage .up, as a large Websterville- for man years. He is
girls made their first appearance and t of Barre lown paving cutters gurvived bv a height years old,
afterward they sang. "Croon, froon," a were leaving for Concord and Milford at and hig M Klvira Provencher
eharminif lnllahv hv Rich. "hile the that time. Should the surmi.se that Puro -f. .,, .;jj : tl.l
judges were preparing their verdict, the
chorus rendered "Onward, Bonny Boat
(Kuecken), which was loudly applauded
Charles Ralph Olhver in "I he Parsons
Conversion" (Murray) was the first
speaker and his contribution put the
audience in excellent humor. One of
Tarkington's delightful boyhood pen pic
The country has regretted, let us forget OPPOSED TO TITTIITFC!
-and make amends to our country. We U1 1 UaiA' 1 1 IlUliIlfc&,
BUT KEEPS SILENT
did not divide over fundamental prin
eipies, we did not disagree over a na
tional policy. We split over methods of
party procedure and preferred personal!
ties. Let us forget the differences, and
find new inspiration and new compensa
tion in an united endeavor to restore the
country.
"Kepubiican principles are in a vast
majority in this country when the ban
ners of harmony are unfurled. We have
witnessed the comeback of our party in
various states. We have seen the re-en-
ine nampsnire was one oi me uevon- tures wag admirably treated bv Miss
.... i-.. ... w....r." ' Bixby in "The Little Gentleman" and
built in 1WI8 and normally carried H from the outset it seemed that she would
men. iie displaced lu.nou tons, waa a strong contender for an award
feet long and cost $4,2.iO,n()0. FoiwfnJnmu nf Hnliverir marl-H Ali-Tan.
The Hampshire has been in use a a H,r . r0rtitn.r, handling f "A Tall to
Koosevelt Sitting Beside the Telephone "Vt W Bt. . 1 ,lr """V" "" Individual Responsibility" (Wade) and
.anous missions. " " the speaker did ample justice to a piece
take a place on the fighting line, " hen manifestly diflieult of Interpretation.
U.r war BUI Ilt-u Blltr lit me hi Mil a' MnrnVin Win fro1 inlr u . nrv
and was reported to nave Deen v.orste.1 piPasing in "The Recompense" (Donnell),
in a fight w ith the Germans in the south lShe was at her best when the theme
China sea. She waa one of the British -..j.j -tronir .Iramatic emnhasia. KMon
sauaoron wnicn waa sent to hip i inum
to Chicago, Takes Up Policy of Watch
ful Waiting If Hughes is Nomi
nated He Will Run, Say
His Friends.
Oyster Bay, June, 7. While Colonel
Riir.at.vi.lt. rAtraina frnm mfllrintr anv nnk.
lie statement, officially disclosing his real for the J" "position in
attitude toward the political situation in
istment of those who believe in Repub- Cliicago it is well known to his intimates
ii-sn doctrines, and victory has followed here that he is opposed to the nomination All AIN DLf CjA I til).
and rejoicing has attended. No apology oi justice tiugnes ano 11 is tneir conn
has been asked, no foreswearing required, dent belief that if Hughes is nominated
This is not the time for recrimination, Roosevelt himself will be a candidate.
t is the day of reconsecratmn. I Koosevelt and his secretary remained
Rededicating here and now the Re- beside a private telephone wire between
publican party to the progress and glory Sagamore Hill and the Progressive head-
of the republic, let us bury party prefixes quarters at Chicago the greater part of
with the administration which our dif-the night. Koosevelt eaid to-day he had
ferences put in power. I do not believe n statement to make except that he
there is a really reactionary Republican was neither for nor against any candi
bearing credentials to this convention, lfldate. Roosevelt, it is well understood,
there is, he will depart, after our delib- is not at all satisfied with Hughes' so
erations solely and proudly a Republican, called nag speech whK.-h he is said to re
GERMANS FELL
BACK IN DISORDER
Powerful Attack for Fort Vaux Was
Turned Down with Great Losses to
the Attackers the Paris War
Office Reports.
Tans, June 7. 1 he repulse nf a pow
erful (iernian attack on Fort Vaux on the
with heart aglow with the party spirit gard as having no value as disclosing the Verdun line, with heavy losse to the at-
of lflltf. And the welcome delegate who I justice's attitude toward the issues of
emphasizes his progressivism, is expected the day
to do dm part in making our party a re
Hex of the best thought und best intent
of sincere committal to the uplift and
progress of the American people, thereby
streiigtiiening party puriiose instead ot
magnifying individual belief, and he, "too,
11 find new rejoicing in being a Re
MET BESIDE RIVER BANK.
Montpelier Auto Said to Have Been On
Wrong Side of Road.
South Royalton, June (i. An automo-
publican. No party can endure which is bl,e accident occurred yesterday after
not progressive." noon alaiut four miles north of here on
The world at war, preparedness and the main road to Karre, near the Koya-i-
Americas foreign relations served as the ton-Sharon farm and not far from the
basis for the senator's first discussion of sceae of the fatal accident of last sum-
the issues. The enormity of the war in mer, when A. J. Mile car, carrying Mr.
urope, the tidal wave of distress and -Miles and C. U Woodbury, who was
isaster. new wonders and new hind- driving, met car number a-i i, owned Dy
ranees in commerce had utterly changed Ueorge Bailey of Montpelier. driven by
a ciiauneur ami carrying iour laaies.
Messrs. Miles and Woodbury were re
turning to their homes in South Royal
ton from Montpelier, while the Mont
pelier car was headed north and was
said to be on the wrong side of the road
so that the ladies could observe the beau
tiful view beside the river bank.
When the Bailey chauffeur became eog-
economic conditions, and "these have at-
ended embarraisments in American for-
ign relations." he said, "as diflirult as
ho-e which the individual citizen ex
periences whose every neighbor is in
volved in deadly quarrel."'
Everything i abnormal except the de
pleted condition of the federal treasury.
hu h is t iiarac teri-tio of lemocratic
control," he said, "and the facility of the nirjint of the approach of the other ve
dminitratMn for wntinir aried notes
ithout effectite notice." .niid these
conditions, America he assorted, had been
ingled out for leadership anion-; the neu
tral powers "but the administration at
Washington sjske with m.re rhetoric
than resolution, and e came to realize
that the warring powers soon 'came to
know that the otfn ial American voice
lacked the volume of deterniinHl expres
sion that once demanded international
hrvl. and we lacked the strength and
confidence in our own defenses."
In the discussion of foreign relation
th temporary chairman made particular
rfrem to Americanism, to the ronw
with Mxioo and with Kunr. r:nn-
nln ita Americanism he traced it hack potman bouse.
to iti'VpenJence days ben t)iie. wrr j The automobile er d.mnffH ihil
American from (irrat Britain, from alike. reoii:riry new w in-i'hirH. run.
U rniii. hum liac acd soulhera Lu- r;i- b-tards. sxir-s, tic
tackers, waa snnounc-ed in the official
statement to-dav. A violent bombard
ment of Fort Vaux whs carried on by the
(Jermans. The attack on the fort started
at 8 o'clock last night and was promptly
checked bv the fire of the French machine
guns. It is announced that the Germans
retreated in disorder, abandoning many
dead.
At hill 304 an artillery duel is in prog
ress and also at C'au ret tea wood. Two
German patrols, which tried to croes the
river Aisne, west of So'Ssons, were dispersed.
REPEAT ASSERTION
OF WARSPITE LOSS
Germans Also Declare That It Waa the
Battleship Koenig Whica Accom
plished the End of the British
Dreadnought
F"rlin. by wireless. June 7. Despatches
from Kiel to the Overseas agency re
peat the aseertion that the British dread-
hide he was able merely to turn the nou"nl arspite was sun m tne ortn
front wheels to .void a hard collision j M" hattle last week notitlUnding too
and take a ideweeping. It waa impos- i British denial. Theas despatches state
sible for Mr. Woodbury to turn further iinat ,! W.rspit waa sunk during the
to the right, as to do so would be to,v h"ttle by the German battleship
drive the car over the bank into theiKo,,n'R-
river. So he instantly threw out the! Irlm. via Iondon. June 7.-In the e
M....k ...T.t,A iK.'l.r.u. icount of the emperor speech to the sail
ors oi iDf neet tti. t. iij.-in.ii.rn jiesier- i
dav, published to-dav. the emperor i t
'quoted a Mjius thst the great n.al j
j battle off Jutland 1 destn-jed t.resti
(Britain's naval supre'vt.y. j
Wesley Ball followed Miss Anker in "The
Man in the Shadow," and acquitted him
self most creditably.
Miss Currier's version of an interesting
chapter in Laura E. Richards' well re
membered character, Captain January
was verv entertaining and much was
exacted from the selection. At this junc
ture the glee club sang and then Mr.
(Yuickshank delivered "By Courier, a
piece in which the speaker was successful
in a difficult character study. Miss
(ieorgina Macaulay displayed marked
histrionic powers in "The Heart of Old
Hickorv," by Dromgoole. Mr. Davis ex
hibited the earmarks of a skilled orator
in his presentation of Stafford's plea for
justice for the Jews in "Russia and the
.lews and as he proceeded with that well
known declamation, he made the most of
every opportunity to bring out its elocu
tionary possibilities. In the absence of
Miss MaoDonsld it remained for him to
bring the speaking prograni to an end.
Participants in the contest were roached
bv John T. HubWd and Miss Eva Smith
of the high school faculty, the former hav
ing charge of the boys while the girls were
trained bv Mis Smith. Tbev failed no
where and in some instances success
crowned their efforts to a marked degree.
Other Events of Week.
The remaining events of commence
ment are as follows:
Alumni concert and ball, Spaulding as
sembly hall, to-night.
( lass day exercises, opera house, Thur
lay afternoon.
'Alumni banquet. Hotel Barre, Thurs-
dav evening.
Graduating exercise, opera house. Fri
day evening.
checked his baggage that night and then K f hia wjf A
left. ThA Bf ittmn infonntttfr in reri.rn trt I . . . .
left the station, intending to return in
time to catch the midnight train, prove
true, then the disappearance of his bag,
which is probably in Concord by this
time, will have been accounted for.
Permission was -given the authorities
to bury the body and this afternoon a
number of Finnish people from Granite
ville and Websterville escorted the re
mains from A. W. Fedger 4 Co.'s under
taking establishment on North Main
street to Wilson cemetery.
in-law, Fred Boissonneau, lives in Web
sterville, and a sister of the dead man,
Mrs. Florence Relation, resides in North
field, and efforts were made this fore
noon to communicate with her. It
is expected that the funeral will be held
at St. Sylvester's church; in Graniteville
Friday morning at 9 o'clock, with inter
ment in the Catholic cemetery on Beck
ley street in Barre. Rev. Joseph Turcot
will officiate.
CITY MEETING TO-NIGHT.
Voters
Main
Called to Act on South
Street Paving Bonds.
A city meeting will be. held at the
opera house to-night, beginning at 8
o'clock, to see if the city will vote to
bond for paving a portion of South Main
street and for erecting a new bridge over
Jail branch and, if it should be voted to
bond, to make the other necessary ar
rangements.
South Main street has been considered
SEVEN NEW PASTORS
WERE RECEIVED
M. S. PRIZE SPEAKING
Held at School Chapel in Montpelier Last
Evening.
And Funeral of Mrs. Philura M. Patter
son was Held To-day.
fortunately no one waa avnousiv m- j
jnred. ne of the ladies was ba lly cut
snout tii rac Tmra rinj tnrown
srint the windshield- Mr. M;lea slight
ly injured one knee. The ladies walked
several rod back to the Home of .lohn
Z'.trnan. where thev were made comfort
able until the arrival of another rar from
Bairw. ordered by t-le.bne from the
In Montpelier seminary chapel last
evening the annual commencement prire
speaking contest was held before a good-
ired and appreciative audience. Mi i
Jean -W. Hoyje was awarded lirt prize I The funeral of Mrs. Plii!ura M. fatter
for Ihe girl 'by the ju!j:e. second honor n. i"e of the late II. sea Patterson of
toing to Mis lieatrice .Mile. Bernard l-arre, ixv-e i t n o-curTe.i at ii.e nome
I Davis won tirt t-rire n.l Ravmond A.t,f her nephew in Bradford unlay m.rn
Holway e.-.nd from the other maljing. held in the t tiiver-aln.1 rhur.h
iwakers. The jufiee were Rev. B. G. J thi afternoon at I o'lsk. the hly lav-
FRENCH LOSE A TESTROYER.
FanLasdn Was Sauk in Celliriea But
the Crew Were Saved.
Pri. Line 7 The r reneh rf,trorr
Fnta!n ha heea "in isj a collision.
1 be cic were aated.
Ijr'kv of Barre. Walter B. lane of
P!ir.!'M nJ J. W. Butterfeld of North
!.! I ;-i.er.
The f(.to ing program wa carried
out: Piano !. "Humorequ." by M.s
Jortte lVit.(i ; Mirr .Anty Ora
tion." hy IL v mond A. Ho)ay; "The
f i ieior and tl Bsr," S. I heMrr
L.mieH; mhre. Neiia P. Timia:
joal ojo, -lrik Lev fron,"" L-tbar A. r
By Vermont Central Baptist Convention
Which is Being Held in Barre Ses
, sions Will Continue Through
Thursday Morning.
Clergy and laymen of the Vermont
Central Baptist association are largely
represented at the 10!th annual conven-
The paving project on tion, which opened in the First Baptist
:reet has been considered church last evenimr. There is a ouick-
for a long time by the city council and it ening.of interest in the missionary efforts
waa thought advisable to put the matter of the denomination through the nres-
up to the voters. jence of a number of men and women
As considerable has been ssid about Workers whose endeavors have their lo-
the piesent indebtedness of the city, the Cale in the most important mission field
following facts are submitted for the in the world. 1Win.iin?r with n inter-
onsideration of the voters. The total estinir service last 'nioht. tha e.nvention.
Ua.L) 1 .1 - ,4 : .. AlLA J it.. I .. ... . . ...
uonucu ui.it-i.teuiie i ejioinm miu me cotitiucd through to-day and will con-
. . ) :.. j ..... . i i i ai i ... , I .
otiic-i iiiueoceiiiirnB in ?n,oii , niBKin elude with a J?unday school session
a total obligation, irrespective of tl
.. . .. . ..... . . e ,.i.ii mi . - 4 r .
cci m-.iiiii. iii., in c-.i.'ti...... wgaiiisc ness meeting will be held during
that amount is the sinking fund, which nS session
amounts to $7..S4.77: and subtracting This morning attention centered
the amount of the sinking fund from around the reception into the association
the debt leave the net indebtedness of Gf R(,Ven ministers who came to this rwit
of Vermont -from other fields. Rev. Dr.
W. A. Davidson of Burlington, field sec
retary for the state convention, pre
sided at the reception of new pastors and
each of the newcomers spoke briefly. As-
ignnient made in the central Vermont
district since the IHHth convention are
as follows: Rev. J. V. Mitchell to North
Tunbri.ige. Rev. N. C. Edwall. to the
Swedish mission in Barre. Rev. ti. D.
Gould, to Groton, Rev. W. H. Bishop, to
Websterville and Washington. Rev. R. E.
Swallow to South Strafford. Rev. B. J.
Lehigh, t' the First Baptist church.
Barre. and Rev. F. I. Sargent, to Corinth
and West Corinth.
A service of prayer ami praise, led by
Rev. F. 1. Sargent, opened the morning
session. In the church efficiency confer
ence. Rev. F. A. AiJar of New York spoke
on "Making Good in the Ixtcal Church."
A brief businc sc-moii as f"!'oweI
by the welcome to the new pastor.
Frederick K. Pinkham of Boton. one cf
the denomination' publication boosters.
occupyinjT the remainder 'f the time un
til adjournment tor dinner at noon.
Rev. D. I). .lhnon of Ka-t Randolph ,
was flitted moderator of the convention
at the opening eion lat evening and
Rev. I. 11. Bt nedict of Montlier was
. ti"cn sec-retarv. "Ti e l ive Vear IVo-
gram" waa the keynote of t!e initial
(ret -lojfel her and li'himins! itij tliscoisrses
were given bv Ir P. H .1. lrrio of
ptston. t'e New fn-'jtnl i:i.trnt mi
inary se.ietarv. who p. ke on "A Live
( Lurch." and fv. F. A. Aj.ir. wh-.-e uh-
ct , ist me tlcigvman. and the Urer fe. wa Maying tie I....n.
were: Walter Dow of B.-sI'orf. a neph- ) l"r f !lerri.a ffviam t'evetj.-ns"
ew t.i the deceatci. Ilnrv Ivw of Marh ;.t I . .( o' l. k were is c ;ar; ol Rev. W.
f-e'd. her hrotljer. .ItnrpVi Ti't an I A. F H. B,-b'j. Rev. Mr. I'jt.-on r--ke rn
tti F.arre. Interment w mi :e in ; t rt ! t.t t'.e orfhri liirtit co-
!-Ront1 ri'nvrt'f r hrn.ie t!.c t-'v J vent ion and tin t" n-.e. t'ns w tuinef
Mr. Fatterwtn, wbe death tni urreI l'cver to !' T:n ft
the city at eUJvl'flSS. The water de
partment obligation is $21.r,000, which is
bfling reduced $5,000 each vear; and
against that total is the valuation of the
water plant.
FUNERAL OF MRS. PETER TH0M.
Held Tuesday Afternoon Interment at
Hope Cemetery,
The funeral of Mrs. Addie F. Thorn,
wife of Peter Thorn, whose death oc
curred at her home. 171 North Seminary
street. .Mimlav evening, after a brief
illness, was held at the house Tuesday
aftcrmwm at 2 o'clock. Rev. K.lgar Orte
land, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church, of which the deceased wa a
member, officiated at the service. The
hearers were: Peter Tbe.m, Harry Page.
son of Mrs. Thorn. Alex loung, William
Smith, Joseph Gauthier and Chsrles
Keith. The burial took place in Hope
c nieterv.
BODY BROUGHT TO BARRE.
mc been ttotighl to Barre Do lorrnn.
Rer. J. B. Reardon. the r.t--'r. wa the
i:
IU .'DfV f
a
