VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH' CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, W916. 146
GREATEST NAVAL BATTLE IN HISTORY
CLAIM[D AS VICTORY BY THE GERMANS
British and German High Seas Fleets Meet off the
West Coast of Denmark Wednesday and a Terrible
Struggle Followed, Lasting far into the Night.
Statements from Both Sides Conflict as to the
Actual Losses, British and Germans Claiming Vic
tory.
Oermany apparently was the victor of the Kil canal and guarded by the
in the greatest naval battle in the outlying Island of ligoland..
world's history, as far as details have A Secret Rendexevois.
been made public of the meeting of llUil this engagemeit, however, no
the German and British fleets off the Geman fleet has put forth in force
west coast of I)enmark on Wednesday to necessitate the giving of the alarm
afternoon. At least three British bat.- to the British mai fleet that its foe
tie cruisers, ' three cruisers and eight was coming out to give battle. 'IThe
destroyers and the German battleshipe rendezvous of the liritish battle fleet
IHommern and two small German has been a secret, but is generally be
cruisers and a number of torpedo 1ieved to have been In the Orkney Is
boats were sunk in the engagement lands north of Scotland. The long
which lasted far into Ithe night. Great. months of watchful waiting by the
Britain admits the loss of battle- British, however, were broken into by
cruisers and cruisers with a tonnage two naval engagements in which coan
of 114-1,i0--represented by the battle- paratively small squadrons of (ertan
cruisers Queen Mary, Tndefatigable warships were involved, and in hot ii
-nd linvincible, and the cruiser De- of which the British were victories, On
fence, Black Prince and Warrior. Ger- I hiitat S, 11 " Adtiral Sir liv h
many's losses, according to the Berlin Beat 'a his flagship the bat len is'
admiralty, in addition to tie Pomnmern Lion, led iis squadron in a ding dash
were the Wisbaden and Fraulenlob, Into the Bight. of Heligoland. In an en
small cruisers and several torpedo gagement almost under tte guns of this
boats. great fortress three German armored
The Germans claim, in addition ,to cruisers and two (estloycs were sunk
the admitted losses of Great Britain, with a loss of 2,500 men.
that the British battleship Warspite. On January 2.1, 191 a Getman
of the largest type in the British navy, squadron attempted a raid on the
was sunk, that the battleship Marl- British coast, encountered Admiral
borough was hit by a torpedo and that Beatty off the Dogger banks and in a
two cruisers of the Acvhilles type (the running fight the German cruiser
Warrior is this class) and one sub- Iluecher was sunk and two of her
marine were sent to the bottom, sister ships set on fire. Several raids
Another Big Claim. have been made by Gertan naval de
The British admiralty adds to theIn
conceded losses by Germany of two which Yarmouth, Scarborough, Whitby,
dreadnoughts of the Kaiser class- oare d h wlstof hese isw
vessels of 24,700 tons-destroyed, the
blowing up of one battlecruiser, the pril 26, last, on which occa
damaging of two other vessels, of this sion according to the German claim, i
class and the ramming and sinking of British destroyer and two scout chips
a German submarine,
From advices thus far received it submarine Losses Heavy.
would appear that the greatest naval ite fost sius lose t e
battle of history has been fought. Never I
before havefoce o thtrough the operations of German
bfo e to naval submarines and by means of mines.
magnitude as the British and German Such an instance ocurred September
high sea fleets engaged in combat. But. 22, 1911, when the Britist cruisers
apparently the battlo was not fought
tit to a point to determine mastery oel wittin an lou' by the (etman
of the seas, for the losses, serious as submaine U-9.
they are reported to have been, will The German navy, however, pei
not vitally impair the strength of formed brillitnt feats it regions fat
cither fleet. distant front Europe, its most notaile
The scene of battle was in the east
ern waters of the North sea. it is
probable that the German fleet was on net, ('bile, early in to war, when the
Geirmian MiUr Easterni sqiadrtoin, at
one of the excursions into the North tempilg to mach home waters, en
sea which it has taken from time to
tie during the war and met, whether It hrid Ciaddock. it the battle the (t
or not by design, with the British mans sent te Britist cruisei Goo(
fleet.
fleet.0dop and \lnioiitii to the bottoim
Off Coast of Denmark. with all bands, A iontt later a pow
Skagerack is an ari of the Non I er fl Brtish. s.uad ...i e
sea bet ween Norwvay and Denmtark.toiu emasofth h.tkad
Tihte point refered to ini thle ofileialIado i ieO'iai r si i
German sta temeint as I iorni R1ff ptrobt- Ilesudin or-- i d iho'
ably is thle reef off thle Hormin , on thletbe0ninain*IleNreb i01(tle
southIwest ern extrcemht y of Den mark. e wI--wreea t Ili lot01.
Thiiis w~ould1 idient thaIlit the battle iieIfitIle1)esneraplmt
was fought oft tihe coast of Denmark. wscuh ae n iMryd
TFrom thle reef to Ii eli go and, thle ma in ''teli ist(rndoih ami
Germnnan na val ia s ini thle Nairth sea, r~o i ls ae ntleNni e
is aboutt 1(00 miles,.naeet sasse li)o i
News of the engagement was hteldlQen l1iattl,~lihpae
back by the British authtoriti es, pos- toiletpatinteteptofrc
51)ly' peindiing the ret urn home of thetielaaels.'leWapievs
fleet, and the first word receIved of 60fe ogad(ipaeI2,0 os
the battle canme bty wireless from ~e~a ul tDvnoti 9.
Berlin. a netmtdcs f$25000
The loss of Ilife in the engagement TeWrhiei eotdt aecr
must have been extremiely heavy. Thme midegt1-nhgn npaeo
battlecruiser Indefatigable, for in-1-icgus'anelbyteQen
stance, from which the German admair- liaei, helswseupedwt
ally reports only two men were saved, 1 r1 i-nhgii,1 ori
probably .had more than 900 men ongusadorthe-oiilranws
board, and others of thte vessels stinkfttdvthou'2-ihioreoubs
carried complements of meni nearly as ercmlmn as70
large,
Previous to this battle Great Brnit-EI TEN S PS U K
aln had lost (luring the war te'n battle
ships, 11 cruisers and vai'ious smallerSA TH BR IH
craft.. Geornmany has host 18 cruisers,
19 auxiliary cruisers, chiefly convertedAlnrlt su Stt'iit.Ieinit
passenger liners and numerous smnaI- tii itr aigNvlBt
ler vessels,.eiholi Ieie ossfrOr
Since the beginning of the war imttsNt01 etilyh.Abo
British cruisers and destroyers have ht~i-Inis (aulisltitla
patrolled durning (lay and night the FrtAione.T~tneEtmt
approadhes to the German fleet's base o aaeSfee adt eMs
in the, bay formed by the mouths of o arctos
the I~lbe and the Weser, protected by LndJne4TeBrtha
the mighty fortification of Wilhelm- mriytngtise ttmn
shaven on the south, on the north by Isyn hr a h togs
the uppoedl I~nrog~bofdefnse (Ciedna agued byethe
(:OU l' (ONYEINES .JUNE 19T'i.
.Jury Commnissioners Drew .Jurors'
Thursday. Only One Murder ('ase
Docketed so Far.
The jury conunissioners met in the
ollice of Clerk of Court Power 'Thurs
day and drew the jurors for the sulil
ler terms of the court of general ses
sions, which convenes .June 119th. So
far only one iurder case is docketed
for trial, that being the case of Babe
Young charged with the murder of
Harrp Cooper. The following gentle
men will comprise the petit jury:
La lens-I1: I). Gray, Thos. ).
Downey, T. L. Moore, B. L. Clardy, J.
R. Brownlee, C. Y. Craddock, S. W.
Rutledge.
Jacks-W. 1). Glenn, J. 0 Ray
llunter---C. I,. .ilam, A. J. .John
son, J. J. Young, N. M. .\Martin, C. C.
Young.
C'rosy 11il1--.1. IT. Dukes, 1E. 1,. Wells,
S. A. Leanianu, W. T. Madden.
WVaterloo-I. 1). Madden, Jr., '1'.
M. Shaw, Geo. C. Anderson.
Sullivan-.Jno. L. Ungwell, R. C.
Ieeves, .1. A. Crawford, II. P. Nel
son, .1. It. Crawford.
Iials -S. L. Weeks, W. S. Adair, .1.
It. Hall, L. ). Curry, 1,. Z. \lison. -
Youngs---I,. S. Cook, .1. G. It. Mar
finl, C. It. Leonlar~d.
Scutlitown ----.\. T. (oo per, i. .1.
)onnan.
.irs. .John 1'. 1111011,ms.
Mrs. .lohn P. liellains, daughter of
the late .\Mr. and .\lrs. Fleming Kose of
the upper section of the county, died
at her homse in Flayte, May ist, at the
age of 60. iier husband and three
children survive her, besides the fol
lowing brothers and sisters: IL. 0.
Rose, S. C. Rose and Mrs. Will Gai
rett, of Texas; W. F. Rose, of Eufala,
Ala., Mrs. Putnam, of this city,
art' Mrs. Mamie Ward, of Clinton. Mr.
and Mrs. Hellams moved to Texas
about 27 years ago.
DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM.
Preparedness and Foreign Polcies
(Principal Planks.
St. Louis, June 3.-Preparedness
and foreign poiieles will be the prin
eipal planks to be written into the
democratic platform that will ' be
drafted here. It is suggested Presi
dent Wilson already has drawn the
main plank.
LAND SALES MON$AY.
The 'ases Disposed of by the Clerk of
('ourt. Martin Property not Sold.
Monday being legal salesday the
clerk of court made the following
sales:
In the case of the Standard IHuilI+
& Loan .\ssociation vs Nathan lrice,
lots No. 1, :1 and I were sold to It. E.
l:Ibh, attorney, for $7:5, $95a and $1 I.
reshpect ively. Lot. No. 2 was sold to
Dial .& Todd, attorneys:, for $20.
In the case of John S. Rodgers vs
Alf Meredith. t.(o lots at 1anford Sta
tion were sold to .1. C. Shell for $26
and $10.
In the case of 1,. (. Halle vs Lou
.\eMorris, a1 lot inl the city oIf Lot(
ilns was sold to II. S. !tlac!:well, it
torne~y, for $2400.
Thle saie of the. M~ar in ilroperty was
Lau'nsGirI lon1ed
Mlisses 1liarrielt Sullivan andl Yir
0(d t wo( oIf thIie 11ie schola rsh ips 1 i e
to m1(1lembes of tihe FreshmianI class at
Winthiroip college thlis year. The0
schiolrsips were awarded0( for merit-1
orlous work duiiring the yeari. T'hat
twvo out of tile ilve scholarships Camle
to L.aurens girls siIeakS very hiighly
for tile record they make there.
Miss Ilessie A very.
Mr. and Mrs. JIoe Avery. of 111e Lau..
reuis Mill village, were sadly bereaved
last Monday whent their diaulghter', Miss
IBessie Avery, age 16 years, rpassedl
away. The body was interred the fol
lowing* afternoon ill the ILurens1 cem
etery.
* ** * * * ** * ** ** **
*
*C
* Dial1," said4 .J. L.. McLaurin in (Co.*
*er for. Tihe State asked himii if lhe *
* wtould accept the challenge of N. *
* II. Dial to discuss the warehouse *
*system with him ini each congres
*stonal district. "I have absedunte- *
*ly no comment to nlake," Mr. Mc- *
*Laurin added. *
*
ENI:('('T1'1E t'O)DI.'l"l'EE
1ET'1 S.\TURA).Y
Itlinrary Arrange'td for the fount)
('uamipagii and .Assessniients laide
for ('a ndititts.
The 'C'ounty I)emcrat ic Execitive
comm itteo met ?aturday niorning in
the coitrt house, presided over by
Chairnan It. E''. Babb. Alr. F. 1'. Me
(owan was elected secretary and
treastrer of the (colillittee. The pri n
cipal matters that canme 11p for settle
ment were the campaign itinerary, the
preeinct mangers and assessment.s
for candidates.
On account of the increased expens
es incident to the cbange in rtiles' and
because it. was thouight best to pay
those lainagers who have to come to
Laurens for the ballot boxes, it was
found necessajry to increase the asses
lents for candidales. The following
Is the schedule of assessuents:
State Senator .. .... .. .. ...$211.1
Representative .. .. .. ..... .1.4)1
Clerk of Court..............:0.00
Sheriff .......... .. .. .. 10.00
Aiuditor ..... .. .. . ... .. . I).0t
'r 'asurer.. .. .. .. .. ... ... .
Coroner .. . .. .. .. , . .0
Couity (oinlnisioner1' ".... .. .. 10.,1)
.Alagistraes .. .. .. .... .....2.0
The following itinerary was; ar
raanged:
Mondny, .\ug. 7. Ian;Igston.
''uesday. .\ug S. -lIen1no.
''uesday night, .\ug. N.---('linton mill
\\ednesday, Aug. '.. - -(l i1ton.
Wednesday inight, Aug. .-- iydi
Mill.
'T'hursday, Aug. 10.--I iopewel1.
Thursday night. Au1g. 10.--Goldville.
Friday, Aug. I 1.--Cross 11111.
Monday, Aug. 21.-Laurens.
Mlonday night, Aug. 2i.--Laurens
Mill.
Tuesday, Aug. 22.--Waterloo (Ekon)
Wednesday, Aug. 23.-Sullivan, T. S.
Thursday, Aug. 24.-Dials (Dials
Church).
Friday, Aug. 25.-Youngs (Youngs
Store.)
Friday night, Aug. 25.--Watts Mill.
It was decided to make no change
in the manler of electing iagistrates
for Hunter township, although the
matter was discussed at length.
NOBLES HEADED FOR ilUFF.1,0.
Two Speclail Trains to Carry Y1aalra
'emple to Big 3eeting.
Mr. C. S. Conlptol, traveling passen
ger agent of the Seaboard A ii' Line
railroad, was in the -eity yesterday
making arrangelenIs for the Sea
hoard's special trains to 11uffalo, N.
Y., on aCCOllnt of tlie lleetiiig of the
.\nlient Nobles of the Mystic Shrine it)
bra held there .luly l- itI:ih. Two big
speiials will leave Allanilai, SatrllIay
.July 8th. It is expected aluit the lau
rens Nobles will join 'aarah t rains
at ('lintoni, which will jass there about
2: 1:, p. in. Mr. 'Comipton says that
these I rains will consist of all solid
steel P 11llma1n, comn partlent a ndl( ob
servation cars and it will be necessary
to put two (iners on each train to no
comilnodate this crowd. .\Ir. II. Ter
r'y will re0eive reservattions I(or' PI'ull
man11 s'ace (on these Irailns and1 give
arle good let urin lg with Istop-overn
lprivileg'es at1 .\tlanltio ('ity, where ihi'
train will spend1 i 11(1hours. 'lh' fare
froml Laure'ns will be' ab~out N2o lor the
Wits II lls Schiool t losimlr.
Thei Wa'it s .\illlis sohool witl 1'loise
Itle sessiont of 191I5-lI. idiay w.ith a1
pienie. The frlIenlds ot' Prof. lPewell,
w ho has beenl tea(h ig there for' sev
01ra1 years, reOgret to learn1 that he wvill
not returnll O net. year bu1)1t will take up
thie stutdy of med(1icinie, Irobblnly a1t the
ldniversit y of North Carolina. Th'le
school has had1( a slendd1( l0(O( reor un
der'l his dirle't ion, the pupils ear'rying
off nmany honor's in 11he var'ious comn
11etitivye contests wIih ot her ('0un1t y
schools.
(Charile Franilkst Hut,
Charlie Frlanlks, son1 of Mr'. and \Mrs.
John i A. Fr'anks, had his armll br1oken1
while tr'yinlg to ('ran~k Is father's aui
tomlobile severall day13s ago. The aeci
(dont1 ('me about1 in the usual11 waty,
Washington, Ju11ni. 3.-Secreta ry
Dianiels 11ay3 uIrge the cons lltrcIon 1)y
thle niavy departmenolt or dIrIgible all'
erauft of the Zeppe)Olin type as a re
sult of the North Sea battle and tile
slowness of commercIal detelopmnenlt
of such constructIon. Naval 'omclials
agreed that dletails of the battle re
eived Indicate that the Zeppelins aid
ed thn Gnrmann reatly.
ENROLLMENT BOOKS
OPENED YESTERDAY
lie-ln 11rollmeIIt Bleii Ired of ANl Those
Who4) Would Vote in the Piilmary.
Ioo(s of ('1110 llent for the primiary
elet ioll were opetned at tIhe variotis:
club dIstric'ts and will be ke-pt openi
for two uonths. They will he clo(d
TI'ucsday, July 2. th.
The enrollment book for the Lau
reus city (liu) will be kept in the of
lice of the Clerk of Court, in charge
of \'.. S. Power.
The rules adopted at the state con
veintion inl regard to en'ollmelit are
as follows:
"Ecach applicant. for enrollment
shal. in person write 111on1 the club
roll his full name and il cdiately
Ile'eafteir his age, o(''i1 tation and
postotice address, and if in a city or
town shall write the name of the
street and the noumlber of the houee in
which lie resides if such designation
exist in said city or towi. tIf the intan
he illegible I ti serleta ry shall write
the name beneithI the silniatte of tlie
appIiennit. In the event of tie' in:ahil
ill the Ie applicant to w rilt he my
may1ke his ilxk Upon the roll. whill
silen? he witnessed by thIe eiitiary or
other person tohe havin tihll o ustody
hereof, and the sec renary stall t iltl
in lae other reauiredtents."f
Next. School Session.
\Ir. I . 1. s P arkinson slated yestsr
day tmI the next school session w1ill
bofin .\lnlday e t. 11. H I s address
this sdecnner' will be l'naka, Springs,
denfn. Ir. and .\lrs. Parkinson leave
Tlhutrsday mlornling.
W1(oodmani I'nl ling Sund,.
A. 10ill1 , of F-partanhurg and
tor. C. A. Power, of this city, made
splendid addresses at the tnveciling
of monents to the memory of Rt. S.
'ishop and J. M1. Owens, deceased
W ooImell, at Watts 'lills last Sunday.
A large crowd heard the eulogies of
the two speakers.
W1arehtouse D~echtares Dividend.
The Laurens Bonded Warehouse Co.,
of which Mr. N. B. D)il is president,
has declared its regular annual divi
dend of 8 per cent payable on July
lt. A part of t(he surplus, amounting
to S per cent of the capital stock. was
also set aside to be used in the cree
lion of an annex to the presei plant.
.1111.1E.11.1 ('1'i '1(1111 111011
Enioyable 3 Icetime: is Expretled. (tomes
hale been T1hrownu ((len to hest'
izafes.
The annual conlventionl of thel E;)
wor-th I.eague society will be held in
thlis city be ginning" tomnolrrow andll con
tintuing through( H-unday. (;.lorts hale.
been heard( from mlost of thle so"c itis
inl the state and the incdcientons- are
that about. 17! delegates wi11 be pres
(lnt. Motomes have been provide d for
all of them and the u1sual Iaure~ns
hositallIt y will prevail.
Al:'. .1. C. Smith, of W\aterlhoo, IS the
LORD KIT1I[[R AND
STAFF AR[ DRO[D
Submarines or Torpedo
sends Ship to Bottom
CRUISER CARRYING
T-IEM TO RUSSIA
.dmirl ,Ie"llico. tommander of firit.
ish (rnnd f-'leet, lieports Tha It (lie
('rniser Ilanpshue ('iarry Iini tho
Wini .iiister and Ills Stuff to Ius.
sia l s been Skink by a fiermatn
S nriOne or ai Topliedo- -o Hlope
ol' an1 ri P' is (1s- --45 lme liod ies
I'ound1.
I 1ond 'on' i n. lin s N. --A i irtl . wie:1i,
I ian ir of, the lirtih h grandi )11l ,
14 ort" Iht 'raber l la ishire wi0t.
!Wons IKitchWe nd Wr hevynister, and
rtaln aln ard. ha: esen 1st ol est.
it a 1ys the litle to 'ph ' of0 anlI
sutrvivo5rs. Kiatt"1" b 1ne 11a on his wayil
ta ilt :i . r-'o r' I n at:, wt re osten to
s e the !anhire. Only oe bode uipzd.
ca and boti hsbedien found ot.
.I liope rotI t a g.iray so i'foi
ors:: '-I Cav i) r at wit de r e
ji t mal l .\jesty -;S ;ii* th }a. :shile 1h5
Ilam:s1hire, captain ilerert ..1. Savil
P. N., w it it iord Kitn r a ni (tislataff'
aboard wunk last night about pi. m.
to the wtst of Orkn es ith er byy a mine
or tiopedo.
"Iw''o htoats wierel peen by observers
on shote to leave the ship. The wid
was northiwest and heavy seas were
rutning. Pialrol vessels and destroy
ers at onice Iprioceetied to the spot and
a party was sent along the coast. to
search but only soune bodies and a
capsized boat has been fonnd up to
the presen! As the whole shore has
been searched to the seaward there ii
litile hope of ther biing any surviv
ors." No report bas been received
from the searching party on the shore.
{llis majesty's shly the llampshire was
on Its way to Russia.
T!here has been no recent reports as
to Earl K<itchiener's movements. Hie
w\as last mnltioned in a cable dispatch
Friday when he went to W\estmnin ster'
Palace to be qiuestioned by m1embers
of the house of commitons who were
dissatisfied with the condluel of the
war. No intimation was given that he
intende~d to lea;ve, E'ngland.
Orkney Islands. off which the lalmp..
61hire sunk atre olf the north (oast of
Scotland. llampsthire was on its: way
into the llalie iaromunl the niorthern-1 enid
of' the S("amlinav'ian pli n1ula into, the
\'.hits Sea. Nitcholner Iprobably in
ti ::h-td to del-arkl at A\rchangel.
TIhe" liainis5hire was one of flte Den..
lhir.e i ss of six cruh:5r:. :,he was
bl'ili in I n" ;and1 nr m~ually < arrifed G.I55
mint. 'Thes disphua en 'n tt wa.ts I 0I
teals alai was I",1t ee long. A'rmamenint
eon ttoodt of fouar 7.., inch, six G-inch,
t wo 12- pound, t w\ety-I1bree pounid
uns;, and Iro !orp~edo IIubes. She
D. A. DA IS 01O SJDD[NIY Y[ST[RDAY
One of the City's Most Prominent Citizens Passed away
Suddenly Yestesday Afternoon
1). Aslh more Davis, one of the City's thirty years, ago, first being empiiloyed
most Irolillent merchants, died sud- with (rahan & Sparks. Later he wwa
denly while at his place of business, erniployed by Minter & .aimiisonl after
D)a v is- Hoper Comia ny, vestera a- \Vbih he went into blusine:- for hii
self withi Mr. C. I. Boper, iormin g tho
trnoon shortly before six o'clock. Hie present Davis-iloper Company whibc.
had been in hils itsual health, his death has had a long and Honorable ear-eer,
being preceded by no unusual symp10- hieing for many years one of the most
toms of di:=ease. Ile had just finished sneestful estaiiblinlits ini this see
giving an order to a traveling sa- I of tI sta Sine iness eni
larramenIts several yars ;1o, hi
m1an and had started toward the of
rtienlds haive nlottered a c .ann we in las:
lice near the Celter of the stare wlen
applea rantce which suggested a mienttal
hb tell. No one saw the fall, blut Mr. train whch he conragcat1lv 5(lhi;llt
S. 1'. ltabb heard its inpact ami rush
ed to his assistance. ledical assist- Of his filiueile f;uuiiy lr. I)avs
anee Was called for. hut it was appar- .i <1, i hy li:; wife. '.l1h4) was a
enI that life was extinct. The news Ilis .la ate huller. ulatlir of Dr.
was p iekly Spread over the city and a 1 rs. L..'Pi lier, and I WO cliii
cast a gloom whever it was heard as I
- dren, Miss Iforanes D avis, a studtient
the decensed was one of the most college, and .anie iolmes
at lirennu clee n lneHle
popular and highly esteemed men of I Davis, a child of a fe% year:.
the communhtinity. The funeral servicer will most irob
Mr. .Davis was a native of Union ably be held from the house this after
county and moved to Laurens about ,on at , o'clock.
