l 0 lilt
THIRTY-FIRST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., JULY 251 1916.
No. 55
X
LOCAL AND .rEKSONAL.
ltobort Qnntt returned Saturday ev
ening from n Bhort visit In Omaha.
Attorney Goorge GIbb3 loft yester
day afteniqon for Grand Island on
businoHH. ' '
Friday afternoon and evening the
Episcopal guild will have an ice cream
benefit at tho Gem.
Ray McCnnn returned yesterday
morning from Kearney-where he vis
ited relatives for several days.
The Methodist aid society will meet
with Mrs. John E. Jones, 103 south
J-ocus't street Friday afternoon.
The Christian aid society will meet
in the church basement Wednesday
oftcrnoon. A good attendance is desired.
Mrs. George Zentmeyer and sons, of
Grand Island, who visited her mother,
Mrs. John SBrahorn, left for home yes
terday. Bishop James Duffy, of Kearney,
came yesterday afternoon to visit Re-.
McDaid while enroute home from
Cheyenne.
0. P. Cook, of Ventura, Cal left for
-eastern 'points yesterday afternoon af
ter visiting with his cousin W W. White
and family.
Joseph Herrod, of Columbus, came
the first of this week and is a guest
at the home of his brother John Her
rod and family.
The last regular meeting of Chap
ter AK, P. E; O. will be held at the
home of Mrs. E. S. Davis Wednesday
afternoon, July 2Gth.
Era Grenzell, of Omaha, who vis
ited at the Clinton home last week
while enrouite from western points,
left Sunday evening.
Mrs. W. P. ICillen came Sunday ev
ening from Pittsburg to make her
liome in Wallace. iMr. Killen has
oeen ithere for"some time.
Friday JosephWayman resumed his
duties as watchman for the union Pa-,
cine, after being off luty with a brok
en arm for several wedks.
Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Ueyerle left
Snlturday morning for Sidney to at
tend the Uncle Tom's Cabin perform
ance which is showing there and has
been under the management of the
former's brother, Charles Beyerlo, for
a number of years.
Romombcr the Dollar Day Speoinls fOITNTV l'AIH MHKCTOItS
at Samuolson's July 27th.
Miss Maymo Gorham, of Grand Is
land arrived here Sunday afternoon
Ko visit with her slstor, Mrs. W. A.
Buchflnek, Wr a week or longer. .
Anyone wishing carpet weaving done
leave orders with mo before Aug. 20iih,
after that date I Will receive orders at
Cozntl Nobr. Mrs. Frank Wilson.
Miss Margardt Mettln, of 'the 10 cent
store, will: tako lick vacation next
week and leave for Chicago and other
eastern points to visit relatives and
friends.
Herbert L. Dorsch, a carpenter of
Goring, was tho third te declare bank
ruptcy in tho district court last week.
Tho assots are $234.50 and the liabil
ities $733.
W. J. O'Connor loft yes'terday after
noon for Now York City to spend sev
eral weeks purchasing stock for the
local 10 cent store, of which ho is now
sole owner.
Adam Hobson and Albert Brennan,
who served out their sentences at the
county jail for stealing merchandise
from Henry DIscoc of Brady, have
gone to Cheyenne.
Georgo Eves, of Stockton, Cal., iwho
formerly resided hero, Is visiting at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. York Hln
man, while enrouto from Chicago and
other eastern cities whdre he spent
several weeks.
A demonstration of aluminum ware
will be hold this afternoon at a meet
ing of the Episcopal Guild in the
church basement. Every lady In at
tendance will receive a piece of alum
inum ware and refreshments will be
served for ten cents. hTe public Is in
vited. Leo Daly, of Omaha, the architect
who drew tho plans for tho new Cath
olic school building, spent tho tlrst of
this week hero inspecting the work
and ordering a few changes In Its
construqtion. Tho building is well
under way" and work is now being
done on the Khird story. Unavoidable
delays have been experienced by the
workmen but it is expected that ev
erything will be in readiness by Sep
tember 15th.
INSURANCE
We write tlio best mid cheapest lire
lightning, hull, life, accident and auto,
mobile Insurance.
Hit A IT, GOODMAN & linCKLEV.
HOLD JIKKTINC
'nUTHLICANS JIHKT l.
I
co i:nty convention
A meeting was held Saturday even-) The Lincoln county rt publican con
ing by tho committee in charge of the' ventlon was held in '(he court house
I Lincoln County Annual Fulr, which . Saturday afternoon. Ninoty-foiir del-
wll be held at the North Side park from tgates had been named from the twon
Septoinbor 2C'th ito 30th. . Arrango-1 ty-elght precincts and about seventy
incnts are being made with a lnrgo.of theso were in attendance. G. S.
carnival company to give entertain- Thompson, of Hershey acted as
mctita on the grounds during tills timo (temporary :ininiian- and was elected
and nn Interesting program is being permanent chairman. All candidates
arranged. A new building will be
rected for the display of exhibits and
use of business men's booths and a new
grand Btnnd will bo erected on the
grounds.
Following are tho committee ap
pointed for tho race track: F. C. Ptel-
tlcker, Albert Diirbln, George Mc-
Kaln, M. J. Fowler, John Fowler, Har-
y Porter and A. F. Blankenburg.
Cliainlter of Commerce Luncheon.
on the republican tloket for the fall
election were endorsed and gnvo short
talks. Addresses were also made by
Judges H M. Grimes and Georgo E,
French and attorney W. V. Hoagland.
Tho following delegates were elected
to attend nhe stnto convention at Lin
today and left for that city last even
ing i Scott Reynolds. North Platte; J.
W. Abbott, Hershey, W. V. Hoagland.
North Platto; Win, E. Shuman, North
P1nMi linn. Mnvnrs Wolllli.ivt. ly p
The Chamber of Commerce hold a'wtiunn. KnMinrinmi. rs aiinmmmi
luncheon at the Owl Cafe yesterday j Hershey: B. D. Hatch. Wallace: W. II.
afternoon for the purpose of discus
sing important matters among them
tho proposition of sending a repre
sentative to Lincoln in regard to tho
future of the water rights and Attor
ney J. G. Beelor was chosen. Ho left
last evening to attend tho meeting at
State Engineer Johnston's office on
July 2Gth. It is the desire of the local
people that the government instruct
the federal attorneys to hold tho wat
er In the Pathfinder dam In the fall In
order that in the other seasons tho
supply enn be equally distributed. A
f
Consider What Thisl Means To You
Your deposits in this bank arc protected by
the Guaranty Fund of the Slate of Nebraska.
Your money, valuable papcrs,and personal
interests "are under the direct supervision of
competent officers of many years successful
banking experience. -s
We most cordially invite youlo call upon us
for your banking needs.
McDonald State Bank. f
North Platte, Nebraska.
The 01destBankin Western Nebraska.
general meeting will be held at Keur-as WCH as malntuln our national dig
ney on August 5th. and all fanners nRy and at tho same timo kedp our na
hu uo imeiuHiuii ure rcipiuaieu , tjon at pence with tho world.
attend. 1 1 Tim l-nniihllr.'ins fills vinr urn is-
Oll acOUllt Of puvlllg several business rificliillv fnrhmn'tn In tin. rlinlnn nf l
streots many of the hitching posts used i candidates on the county, state and
by the farmors were removed. This national tickets. Their records are
matter will be token up by tho Cham- such as to guarantee that our plat-
,. "llvu HU,eui.uu3 form both stuto and national will bo
W. R. Malonoy chairman of a commit-1 caried out in the real Interests of the
tee to provide a suitable place forjp0)i0 nn(1 wo heartily endorso all of
them to bo stationed and not have any out. candidates from Chnrlcs E.
wuu.oi-uiviiLf uuiiim io uiu dinners HUghes to precinct candidates,
while trading in town. Mayor Evans MVp condemn tho present democratic
has expressed himself as being In fa-' administration as both without a pol
vor of having them placed In a. con-;iCy nnd whenever nn action Is 'taken
venlen't nnd desirable place as soon a i notoriously impracticable nnd In
as possible, and the farmors can rest efficient In tho Interest of ono class of
assured theat their teams and wagons our neonle as ucalnst tho other.
) We condemn the tariff legislation
of nhe democratic party as placing ev
erything the northern farmer raises
on the free list and places a tariff on
everything ho buys whllo everything
ALlo south raises is protected.
We condemn the democratic udmlii
istrntion for passing nn appropriation
of $46,000,000 in the interests of. the
pork barrel congressmen from tho
will be taken care of In a satisfactory
way.
. :o: :
Keep (he Children Quiet.
Tho membors of tho North Platto
Municipal band have requested that
the disturbances' cnused by the" chil
dren while attending the Friday ev
ening conceits be discontinued. It
has been noticed that while tho band
arc giving their selections tho- chil- south under tho namo of rivers and
dren ga'ther around tho hand stand harbors, whllo at tho samo time they
and their clamor is such that the band i levy a war tax of $100,000,000 on our
rannoi uo nqnru a iow ieet away, vom-1 people in tlio time or peace.
plaints have also beep made in ro- We pledge Who people jot this county
gard to tho romping of tho children that our candidates for tho state log-
tnrougn all parts ot the park nnu caus
ing annoyance to people who are su
iting on the lawn and are thus' pre-
ented tiom enjoying the concerts.
Tho musicians ask that the parents
consider the matter.
THIS WEEK
AT THE PAT
World's Best Feature Program
Tuesday's Feature ,
EDITH STOREY, and other vitographj players in,
THE TWO-EDGED 1 SWORD. 5 Acts. 7 Keels.
10c and 15c.
Wednesday's Feature
THE DEVILS PRAYER BOOK, featureing, ARTHUR
HOOPS and ALMA HALON. 5 Acts. 2 reel
comedy. lOcandlSc.
Thursday's Feature
WILLIAM FOX presents BETTY NANSEN, ARTHUR
HOOPS and DOROTHY BERNARD in THE SONG
6 Parts. 10c and 20c. Good comedy.
OF HATE.
C. Woodhurst. North Platte: E. W
Mann. North Platto; W. H. Jenkins,
Hershey; Nye Bo wen, Brady; J. W.
Fowler, North Platte; D. E. Martin,
Hershey.
, Rosolutons were adopted as follows:
We, the republicans of Lincoln
county, N.ebrnskn, In convention as
sembled, hereby commend Uie party
tills year In Its splendid National plaK
.forin in the lntprosts of our national
prosperity and a foreign policy tlmt
will again place tlio American nation
at tho front of the nations of tho earth
noktii piiAtti: m:ati:n iiv
a scorn: or a to o.
Sunday afternoon tho Lincoln Sara
togas base- ball team took tho ilrnt
of n series of two gntnes wlvh the local
nine by a score of 2 to 0. The scores
were made In the first half of tho
second Inning and although both
teams had men on tho second and
third bases sevwal times during the
gnme no other1 scores were mndo
Todcnhoft pitched for the local nine,
striking nut ten men and walking one.
The fuatures ot tho gamo wore- tho
fielding of Lnngford and Anion nnd tho
batting of Gettniun and Mnxey, each
getting two of tho four hits. North
l'latto was charged with two errors
and Lincoln two. Boll nnd Skiles
were batteries for the visitors, who
allowed seven hits and two bases on
ba Is. Struck out by Doll ten. Um
pire Leslie Basklns.
In tho gnme yesterday afternoon
North Platte won by a scoro
of 8 to 0. Batteries for tho
homo team were Walworth and Mnx
ey. Twelve hits were mndo nnd no
errors, bnso on balls nono, strike outs
by Walworth 12, by Brown for Lin
coln 3. Two orrors wore mndo by
Lincoln and one hit Catcher, Skllos.
Riueker played left Hold for tlio home
team,, Kelly was itrnnsferred to right
Held and Amen to third base. Features
of tho gamo were the hitting of Lang
ford and Walworth, who each hit sov-
eral doubles and u number of singles.
Umpire Basklns.
HASH BALL NOTES
Edward Luby, formerly of tho local
baseball team is now 'playing with tho
team at Rockford, Colo ,
Dr. J. A. Amos, of Potter, Is spend
ing a few days hero negotiating iwith
tho local base ball manngors for n
gnpie at Potter In the near future.
The local ball team will play ui;
Staple-ton on July 27lh and at home
on July 30 and 31 with Scotts Bluff.
Bridgeport will be hero from Aug
ust 6th to 8th for a series of ginnou.
Christy Matthowson, Hho world's
greatest baseball pitcher, resigned
from uctlvo service last week after
pitching for a number of years In the
big leagues. Hoiwill In future mnnngo
tho Cincinnati team.
Newspaper aicn Here August lltli.
The Nobraska Press Association
will hold a convention boglnnlng Aug.
7th and continuing until Aug. 11th,
during which time tho newspaper men
will visit western Nebraska. A spe
cial train will leave Grand Island and
on board wil bo two hundred nnd fifty
editors and their wives. Stops will be
made at several towns and four hours
will bo spent hero on tho morning of
the 11th. Tlio Chamber of Commerco
are planning an entertainment for the
guests.
To Itcvlro A I a ni n I Association
Major White, the valedictorian of
the class of 1915, who recently re
turned from an extended visit in Cnl
Ifornla, Is making an exort to revive
the Alumni association of tho local
high school which disbanded several
years ago. A meeting will be called
for tho local members In tho near fu-
ituro and out of town alumni will bo
notified by mall or tho arrangements
If successful In reorganizing this as
sociation tho usual banquet wll bo
tendered to the class of 1917 In May.
: :o: ;
CAN KXTHANGK
Kmilty In it good lnnro nearly new
house In this city for a good nulonio.
bile.
IMS ATT, GOODMAN & HUCKMIY.
::o::
Or. Cook Here.
Dr. F. A. Cook, of New York, tho
polar explorer, spent last evening In
this city. In company with six young
men ho Is giving lectures at Chautau
quas, and left this morning for Osh-
kosli to give nn entertainment.
::o::
After five weeks of dry weathor tho
first rain fell Sunday ovonlng and
measured thirty-three hundredths of
an Inch. Tho storm was moro of nn
electrical nature. During itho past
weok tho highest tempolraturo was on
Sunday when It registered 99. Heavy
rains am reported at Ogalalla and
Brule.
.Airs. W. B. Conklin, of Chicago,'
formerly of this city, camo yesterday
aftornoon to bo tho guest of hor sister
Mrs. C. F. Ridings for soveral weeks.
Mrs. Christonson and daughter, of
St. Paul, Nobrasku, left a fow days
ago after visiting Mr. nnd Mrs. Vigo
Chrlstensen for a weok.
Money to loan on real estate for u
term of years or out of our Building
k Loan Association, rcturiulblo in
monthly payments snme us rout.
Plenty of money always on hand, see
BltATT, GOOMIAN & WCKLKY.
Misses PeaVl and Helen Koontz loft
fcust evonlng for Caspar, Wyo to
spend a month with thoir sister, Mrs.
Chos. Gould, who formerly resloled
hero.
You are not too lute to Insure that
corn crop from hail ttiiii hb.
Islaturo will when elected work in
the interests of an economical and
efficient administration of the staito
government.
Our county candidates have had ex
porience In public service and their
record is a pledge of economical and
it'fflclent servlco of the people
Resolutions' were adopted on tho
water problem of the North Platto
river, a full text of which will appear
in tno i' riuay issue ot Tiie rriniine
RENTALS.
Large and small, modern, nnd other
houses. Stores, nice office and other
rooms. Close in. Storage and safe
deposit boxes.
BltATT, GOO B.MAN' & HUCKlKY.
: :o: :
Tho (work of cutting down tho trees
in tho Union Pacific palrk begun the
latter 'part of last weok anil tlio sito Is
being made ready for the new depot
Soveral loads of gravel have boon
spread around tho depot now In uso to
prevent tho forming of mud and to
mako tho ground more agreeable for
tho pedestrians
Mrs. Elizabeth Margaret Brownell
of Sutherland, who took treatment at
a local hospital for soveral weeks, and
rocently returned homo, died faatur-
day evening at tho homo of a irolatlvo,
Tho remaliiB woro taken to blither
land.
On train No. 11 Saturday aftornoon
woro ten newly married couples who
wore onrouto from eastorn points on
their honeymolon. Yesterday at!t,en
noon there were four wedding par
ties on board going to Denver.
Mr. and Mrs. Perry VanCleave. who
had lioen visiting in Callaway and
other towns in eastern Nebraska,
enmo homo yesterday afternoon nnd
were cnled to Green Rivor by tho Ill
ness of tho lattor's mother.
Misses Gortrudo Magncr and Catli
erlno Miles and Messrs. James Boylo
and Leo Milos went to Stapleton Sat
urday evening by auto to- attend a so
cial dance.
Hugo Todonhoft, who had
John .11. Thurston Seriously III
John M. ThursKon, former senator
from Nebraska, is critically 111 at St
Joseph's hospital in Omaha. Ho was
:aken HI a week ago when ho arose
from his bed during tho night to get
a drink of wnter and falling sprained
his right hip. Tho injury, combined
with his age and tho intense heat nro
causing alarm to his friends. Mr.
Thurston is ono of Omaha's pioneer
attorneys. For years ho was general
solicitor for tho Union Pacific and was
clcntod to tho sonnte in 1894.
::o::
Nollce to rnlr Exhibitors
It is tho dosire of Secretary Fisher
that all farmers who have exhibits
for the StiH o Fair at Lincoln, Lincoln
County Fair at North Platto, or tlio
Sonthwestorn Association Fair at May
wood next month, will send them to
tho Chnmbor of Commerco rooniB ns
soon as possible, or leave word with
him when they wish them called for
This request is made now in order that
tho best exhibits can bo obtained nnd
may be arranged appropriately, giv
ing tho commltteo nmplo time for t Ma
work. -. to: !
homo 1 ntcr Pumped
According to tlio report of Walter
Commissioner Hershey Welch, ifclio nv
orago amount of wator which has boon
pumped at tho wator plant during tho
dry spell of tho past llvo tweoks Im
l.fiOO.OOO gallons dally. Tho light
pressure noticed in tlio ovonlng Is
duo to the amount taken up by eight
hundred sprinklers each consuming
three and ono-half gallons evory min
ute. Both largo pumps nro in opera
tion. Tho Inrgcst or which puts out
two thousand ono hundred and fifty
gallons a mlnuto. and 'tlio smaller ono
from seven ito olght hundred gallons a
minute. Tho nvorago output dally be
fore tho dry spell was IiOO.000' gallons,
one-third of what in now in use.
: :o: :
No One Under Hi Jliiy Brhc AiitoH.
pitching for tho local baso ball team.
iwns obliged to resign Sunday oven-
ing on account of Illness and lolH for
his home In- Norfolk. The nilinago
mont havo Jiiade arrangements for
another pitcher 'to Join tho club this
week.
Whllo taking tickets at the ball
game Sunday afternoon Manager
Langford was struck in tho face by a
foul ball, tho forco of which loHsen-
ed several teeth and caused a swell
ing on both sides of his face. His in
juries wero given attention by a lo
cal physician.
In a ball game between Greeley
City and tho Ramblern of Omaha 41io
latter part of lasitj week Johnnie An-
drows formerly of tho local ball team,
pitched for the former striking out
thirteen men and holding them done ito
throe hits. This was ifhc first game
lost by the Ramblers this season.
Charley Melkcr, formerly of the lo
cal ball team, who had been playing
with the Lincoln Saratogas, and was
expected to 'play hero this week, was
recently married to a young lady in
The custom which prevails all qver
the stnto of letting youngsitors drlvo
cars caused Secretary of Stnto Pool to
get out the automobile law and call at
tention to the law regarding tho driv
ing of nuitomohllcB, iwhlch reads as
follows:
Section 195: It shall be unlawful
for any person under 16 years of age,
or for any Intoxicated person to opor-
fi i n n Ttwitrif vnlilnln niwl imv nwvinr
ucon dealer or manufacturer of motor ve
hicles who permits a person uii'd'or
1G years of aye or an Intoxicnteit; f)or
son to operate a motor vehicle Bhnll
bo guilty ot a misdemeanor anil yiiall
bo punlshod us horolnaPtcr provided
for violation of tho provisions ot this
article.
Section 199 provides a lino of not
exceeding $50 for tho first offenso
ami for a second offenso .a flno of not
less than $50 nor more than $100 or
Imprisonment not exceeding sixty days
in tho county Jail.
Secretary of Stnto Pool bollovetr
that an effort should be made to en
forco tho law.
: :o: :
All boys and girls wishing to .com
pute in tho gardon contest glvou by
tho Twontloth Cen'tury club uro re
quested to given In thoir names at
once to one of the following ladles:
Mrs. W. C. McDormott 521 So. Dewey,
Mrs. 15. A. Gnrlichs, 118 West 3d, Mrs.
Mary Bidor 515 "West TOh, Mrs. R. F.
Cottroll 310 east Fourth. The gardens
will bo inspected this week and thq
first exhibition hold. Next Saturday
afternoon n't 3 o'clock in itho Ladies'
I I I.. 1 . . ...... 1..... "".UHH
LIIIUUIII UIUl rVHIgllUll inilll UK! C-IUI). Tlncl ..,,, I1I 1,n m-nr,1rwl tnv
e lLn?? ?m?,tHl " njnchjnlst in t,10 beHt llo;ver oxhlbiL Children from
ten to sixteen may compete. Tho first
prize is ono dollar, tho second fifty
conts. For further Information call up
tho supervisor of your ward.
: -n: : r
For Rent 1 room house,, ,314 south
Walnut street. Inquire of T. Simants,
303 south ChORitnut Btrect. B5tf
COMING TO THE
b 1 1 H
Monday, July 31
in
tho Burlington shops at Lincoln
Tho federal ball team mot defeat at
Maywood Sunday afitomoon iwhen the
latter took tho game by a scoro of
12 to 10. Art ley and Folden wero bnt
terles for tho Maywood team. Bechon
and Sandnll for the Fedorals. Bo
chon was overcome by tho heat In the
seventh Inning and Halllgnn was put
In Kho box. Tho gamo was witnessed
by a largo crowd and tho features wore
the batting of both teams,
lilt liyn' Dog.
Robert D ckey was bitten on the
fheok Saturday bv a dog which
sprung at him as ho was coming out
of the Dickey bakory. The boy was
itaken to tho City hospital where his
Injuries received attontlon and ho Is
doing nicely. Tho dog was ordered to
be shot.
::o:: j
Remember tho Dollar Day Specials ,
at Samuolson's July 27th.
Mrs. J. B. Red Held is nursing a pain
ful injury on her hand which she
burned while making pastry Inst
week and in which blood poisoning
net in.
Robert Lantz. a U. P, brukomnn,
iiuunlned a fractured arm Wednesday
afternoon when struck by a water
crane while on tho side of a freight
train.
John Sides, of Kearnoy, forniorly of
tlili city, Is expected hero next week
to visit his parents for a week or long
er.
Ki'jwanl Thompson loft tho latter
part of last week ror Lincoln aim urn
aha to spend a week or moro.
Mrs Uosoph Herroil and son, of
Columbus, camo Sunday to visit with
frlop Is and relatives In town.
Miss Helen Alden returned last cv
oning from n visit witli fnlends in Lincoln.
Rmnnier the Dollar Dny Specials
PEGGY.
Dollar Day
Specials!
10 cansRex Pork and Beans,
regular $1.20 for
$1.00
12 cans June Peas, regular $1.20 for $1
1 can Sliced Peaches n..i i ns c
1 can B. or W. Cherries oguiur
1 can rears
1 can Apricots
1 can Plums
1 can Grapes
4
1.00
Re N. LAMB.
NORTH LOCUST ST.
I :im nnitmriv r. iinnrim' ... o.. nnu ' ' J
"XTt uooHJi a -iJ" :k u; v.
at Sumupjson's July 27th.
