a.\Si' 1;
"Mr. Jiggs"
7 he Irrepressihle Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
SirfimonJi 0TimeS ? \
Fox's Comics
In The Timcs-Dispatch, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
66th YEAR
VOIiUMB nil
VI iiKit
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1916.- FOURTEEN PAGES
V-'&k'S" ?RAIN.
PRICE, TWO CENTS,
DOUBLE SHIP LINE
PATROLLING COAST
Allies Are Said to Have Fighting
Vessels Twenty Miles Off
Cape Henry.
SPECULATE AS TO BREMEN
i
Fea*s Expressed in Norfolk That
Submarine May Have
Been Captured.
Communion Service
for Deutschland's Crew
IIA I/rt.MOHIS, MO.. - ? A
roniniiinliin wTvli't" miih held to
olRht aboard llir North lierinau
l.lojil ntcanier \?'ck?r, l>ltig nloiiK
?ltlr I In* Dt'ii tnclilfiinl. for the cap
inln unit rri"? of tin* ?.ubtitn rlne.
lire. Otto I'ltls, nil tin Immigrant
rnKsliinnrj, conducted till* m'rvli'B.
In IiIm priijcr In- n?Unl Hint tlir
uurl nml lirr i-rni may have n
?nfr vnjnur homo.
Thr nervier nnH followed by n
hnnfiurt. The Ni-i knr nil* lirll
llnntly ligfifrd.
If its * learned tlnit tin- DrutMcb
Innd nn? purily HiihiiierUcd tit licr
? lip at Hillll tliift cteulitg. The water
!?> not ileep <*nott(tli lor lull stili
inrrci'itrr.
NORFOLK. V.\ JuIj 21 -Coincident
with the appearahce of nr w allied i
warship to-day "i thr ??ntml Ilri?
awaiting Germ an Piittmornlhles outside j
the threo-rnile Jirnit off <'ape Henry,
came report* from * source h-re'ofore
r?l:aVi]f> that a second liti'- fighting
*hips Hps about twenty mile? off th?
American shore, anxlo-jsly awaiting the
coming of the new German merchant
Ijttdcrsea v'ss' ld.
\nnounceniet|1( of tj o preser. <? ?>f the
"crond line caused imjch ."peculation an
lo the whftreabouts of th' Bremen, now,
According to (Herman sources, overdue
In an American p<">rt. an'l to the prob
lems that the Deutschland will face If
?he attempts a if. ;rn t rj|? or* the
o.-ean.
Fears were expressed rti;?t ?! <? lire,
me:-. might have I.e.- < jj'fed, hut
ri i.'f was expressed !?>? thos? who
looked forw.ird nnxio'jsW to he: com*
Sup. however, llial '?lie might li ave
^hted the repot trd serontl line and
15 making a wido d>-to ir in ordW to
avoid the allied fibipx.
Regarding the Dotschland, the sug
gestion was male thai the Inner thin
. i,'. which never liB* consisted of more
th.irt to ships. and sometimes only
one, was placed merely to servo a
?rap and lookout, and not for attacking
?he submersible I' was pointed out
that the allli-s n >gbt bjijjya reasoned
t h *< t the l>euts< '.land wo.ild submerge
,pon leaving {.he ; tpes tnen. hav
ing passed the ri -t l:i; of patrol, be
] c- e Mie naf Safe and nine to the
>urface. oi\)y to f -<e the sc-< ond line.
A 'ji'ost thorough nu-veneer pystcm
has been inaueUrated by the allied pa
trol*. n ip said Ev^ry incoming and
nut going allied t railing vessel is ifarry
ne message* from the shore and |e
t\<e- ri lh'- t\\V 1 i es
%rTIVIT^ A not Vl> PI Kit
l\|)|( ATI> R \ It 1.\ DKIUHTI'IlRj
RAi.TlM' mi:. .!t?l\ 24 A series of
this afternoon at the pier where j
the merchant submarine peutsehland
lp hertherl indicated that her departure
would not he long delayed. The most:
sfc' lfi'-ant of these was the filling' of j
hrr water taril'.1- and the .stowing below
!)#>? herks of the crew's bedding1 as it
irgc removed front the steamer Xeckar.
near-bv. Hit^p their arrival, two
icppUs ago. the Ltetttsohiand's crew I
ha"-*e been sleeping aboard the N'cknr.
Phortlv after the water tanks had
(???en filled heavy blue smoke was!
noticed coiiiin^- from behind the barges;
that screened the I>eutschlattd from i
view and directly at her stem The I
uinil. blowing in the direction of the
submarine, carried the odor of fuel oil, j
and tt was evident (tint the vessel's
engines were being testrd
These activities were preceded by thei
.?ealing of the submarine's wireless ap
paratus by a government radio inspec
tor. This was in accordance with a
Federal law calling for such action at
the expiration of two weeks
N'o application for clearance papers
had been made up to the elope of busi
ness at the custom-house to-day, it was
announced. Arrangement may be!
made, however, for this to he done)
out of hours.
GREEN~RETIJRNS TO hTs HOME
i
Former Hanker of Waynesboro, Minn.,
Reappear* \fler Klglitoeii
Mnntli.i' AbHeneo.
MOBILE. ALA., July 24.?C. C. Oreen,
former banker and business man of;
Waynesboro. Miss., who disappeared
from his home on January 10, 1015,
and who for more than eighteen months
was thought by his family to he dead,
to-day returned to his home. lie gave
as his reason for his long absence
mental pressure under a burden of}
debts and his horror of going into;
bankruptcy, which, he said, he faced at |
the time of his departure.
In a signed statement given to a;
local newspaper to-night, Orcen told of
living during htb absence among "kind
people and acquaintances" under an
assumed name. He refused to say
whore he made his residence.
"I shall immediately resume charge
of my business affairs," he snid.
Allen Confirmed liv Senate.
WASHINGTON, July 2<.?After be
ing held up since January on objection
of Senator Hitchcock, the nomination
of Thomas S. Allen as United States
Attorney for Nebraska was confirmed
to-night by the Senate. Allen in a
brother-in-law of William Jennings
Bryan.
New Vote of Credit
Ask^d by Asquith
Twelfth Sincc Beginning of
War Brings Total to
$14,160,000,000.
LONDOX, July 24.?A vote of credit
of ?450,090,000 for tho war was asked
of the Mouse of Commons to-Jay by
Premier Aaquflh in an address in which
he reviewed British expenditures dtir
Iiik tho rfiiir.se of thr war and called
attention to additional needs. This
vote, which is thr larsest. ,?in'-o the
beginning: of the war, will brlnn th^
total voted in 1S?1<5 to ?1.050,000,000, and
the total since the beginning of the.
conflict to ?2,832,OOO,'iJ0, <>r approxi
mately $ 1 4,1 (50.000,000.
Twelve votes of credit liave hern
had since the outbreak of thr war,
totaling ?2.$32.000,000. tl?e Premier an
nounce?l The principal causes of Jn
crf>ase in expenses, Mr ASH tilth paid,
were th<- army and munitions, the daily
average of expenditures having risen
from ?4,520,000 for May 1 to June :?<> to
?*,,050.000 for ./une SI to July J2.
!Cr;tI\-in2 criticisms of Premier
Affjuith made b\ Winston Spencer
' htirchill. Dnvid Lloyd (Jeorpe
pressed his confidence in a Briflsh \ .r
torv and praised the valor and endur
ance of ICnpiish 'roops.
'>ur troops." he said, "are pressing
nark a fno who devoted his hr^t brains
to the study of war for generations.
Our men are showing, however, that
British lnieiligeti< r at ! resourcefulness
are foinir to snatch a victory in a few
months from what has appeared at
moments to be something Invincible.*
Mr Churchill criticized the Premier
for not reviewing the war sttuatlon
In answer to this Secretary Lloyd
George replied It would b* premature
to survey a military situation and the
prospects In the middle of a battle.
PREDICTS GERMAN DEFEAT
former Premier Venlcelon Openly
' hnllrnue* King** firllef Tlint
Thl? I* I mpoKHlhlc.
A 7 HfCXS < v:a London). July 24.
Former Premier Venizelos openly chal
lenges King f'onslantlne's expressed
belief that Germany cannot be defeat
ed in an article which appears in to?
day's Herald Venlzelo* quotes an in>
tervlew piven by thr Kihk to an Asso
rted Press representative last Jan
iary. in which the monarch declared
that tii.- war would rr<nilt in a draw.
Who j- now -o blinded by preju
'lirA,'' asks the statesman, "that hr still
believes in German vijsjory? Who to.
day, after the reorganization of the'
Uiiasian arm' and the organization of
Kitchener's army, by which Kntsland
Is raised to thr rank of a great mili
tary power. s':ll iniacines that the'
war can be ended bj a bastard praoo.
In whi It there will i.. neither victor'
nor va ian;;.s||ei| ?"
WILSON1 SILENT ON SUFFRAGE
ItrfusrH ii. Define Ills Position on
Intimity \ntrti.lnienl t?? Helccn
Hon of \\ irmoii \ kiinrs,
* > M ! X? i i * >X. Jul* 4 ! 'i qsirl*n t
Wilson refused to defii.r position
1Susan 13. Anthony amendment
for nation-wide woman suffrage when'
told by a delegation of woman suf
fragists to-day that woman voters in
the United States are waiting tr. know
how- he and Charles K Hitches stand
on the question. Mr. Wilson asked the
delegation many questions roncertilng
their purposes, and when they left they
stated they felt encouraged at the
President's attitude.
The deletion included Mrs Harriet
Stanton Blatch, of Kansas; Miss Hei-n
?"d Mrs Abraham
tinkle and Mrs George Mr
Tnont, of JrrjjAv.
IMPRISONED IN TUNNEL
Sl?.~? Jl,?. ,v?rt ?? ,i,?,.nd.(i;
Aon- Wnter Ky?feni. Relieved
to He Dead.
OLK\ ELAND. July 24.?Imprisoned
n the new waterworks tunnel tinder
Lake Krie :is the result of a terrinr
explosion of gas in the tube, sixteen
men are helievrd to be dead. The blast
occurred shortly before midnight ard
Mfe savers and the crews of the tire
titers rushed to the outer crib five miles
from shore with limp 'motors, prepared
to enter the tunnel and rescue thr vic
tims if alive.
That any survived the gas explosion
Is considered hopeless. Arrangements
have been made to receive the bodies
of the tunnel workers.
SENATE CONFIRMS CLARKE
Will Take Mis Place on Supreme llrttch 1
When Court Convenes
Next Full.
WASHINGTON', July 21.?The Senate J
to-ni?ht unanimously confirmed the
nomination of John II. Clarke. of Clove
land, as associate justice of the Su
preme Court to succeed former Justice'
Hughes. Justice Clarke will take his'
place on the bench when the court!
convenes tifxl fall.
President Wilson sent the nomina
tion to the Senate on July 14. A sub-,
committee reconimendrwl confirmation I
and the Judiciary Committee took siml-|
lur action to-day.
FUNERAL AT ARLINGTON
noily of Lt.-Col. M. C. Ilutier. Wlio Was
Willed nt Alpine, Hurled In
.Vntloiinl Cemetery,
WASHINGTON, July 24.?Tho body
of Lioutenant-Colonel M. C. Butler, of
the Sixth United States Cavalry, who
wan killed at Alpine, Tex., Thursday
by Harry J. Spannell, a hotel manager,
was burled In Arlington Cemetery to
day. Spannell also killed his own wife,
shooting the two a/< they sat in Span
noil's automobile, in which Spannell
had Invited Colonel Butler to ride.
*12.75 ATLANTIC CITT AND RETURN
Via YOHK IUVKR LINE to BALTIMORE,
thenen rail; daily. Limit 30 duya; atopovcra.
Parties Unable to Arrive at Sub
stantial Agreement Regard
ing Home Rule.
MEANS DELAY OF ACTION
Subject Dropped for Time Being,
and Recommendations of Lloyd
George Come to Naught.
LONI)ON. July 24.?The British rov- ,
ernrnent will not introduce nn Irish
? home rule amending hill n s lonir as
there if no substantial agreement j
on llin question among all the parties.
- Premier Asqulth announced In the
House of Commons to-day. Ills sta.te
meni confirms suspicion which has
been entertained by the public several
flays t h.< t ?l <? Cabinet had not been
able to reach a ?!?*. i,slon In regard to
the siibjoct. n home rule question.!
:t tr believed. has heen ilroppe'l for ill"
time being. and Hie reeoin inenda t ions
I of I 'a v I' 1 1,1'iyil <".rrircp have ' i m e to
naught.
The stumbllnsrblock appears to have
been the retention In the imperial
Parliamnnt of national representation
in undiminished numbers.
The discussion of Mr Redmond's mo
tion to adjourn the House of Com
mons In order to ca]] attention to the
rapidly growing feelir.n of unrest In Ire
land and the deplorable effect on the
Irish situation which must result from
th? government not proposing to carry
out in entirety the terms offered by it
for a settlement of the Irish difficulty
as accepted by the Irish parties, hepan
with a speech h- Mr. Redmond.
IIKDMOVII ni:< I.AUKS I"A( TS
si'i:\k run tiikmski.vks
The Irish Nationalist leader declared
):e did not wish to attack anybody, but
merely to state th? facts which, he
said, spoke f?.r themselves. He said
that when, two months ago. Premier
Asqulth had returned from Ireland and
announced that the present system of
povernme!,; had broken down, and said
the Cabinet had unaniseously requested
Lloyd George to bring about, if passi
ble. a provisional settlement of the
Irish question by the consent of every
one concerned, he was thrilled by the
hop? that. In the interest, not only of
Ireland, hut of the empire, the Irish
question might be put out of the way
until the war had ended
The proposals Lloyd George put be
fore Sir Edward Carson and himself.
Mr. Redmond said, were in lie sense
their proposals, but. after considerable
negotiations and many changes, they>
a creed to recommend them to their
friends.
Mr Redmond sal'i the agreement was
for the provisional ?ettlement of the,
question until the war was over, or)
until a final and permanent settlement]
was arrived at within a limited time
after the u.tr
Mr Redmond declared that, while the
attitude of himself and his friends to
ward the war was unaltered and un- j
alterable, the Nationalists hold them-!
selves free to exercise their individual '
judgment in criticizing the govern-j
merit's vacillation, not only in the eon
! duct r.f domestic affairs, but in the,
conduct of t! <- war.
vr.vmir.vr tiii k. F.vt kpt
! \ <?\K OH TWO POI ATS
Secretary I.loyd Cer.pge frankly ad
mitted that what Mr Redmond said
was true, except in one or two pnlnt.TT
One of these, he said, was the phrase
ology concerning the exclusion of
Ulster. Mr Redmond interrupted by
saving that the form of the words had
been carefully considered, and had been
drafted bv skilled lawyers and ap
proved by Sir Edward ('arson
Secretary I.loyd George emphasized ;
the difficulty of embodying heads of
agreement in a bill, and insisted it was
only a question of phraseology.
Tho government, declared Secretary
Lloyd George, was faced with the fact
that an agreement could not be put
through without modifications. He un- i
derstood Irish members would resist
any attempt to force the bill with these
modifications This remark called
forth loud cheering front the Irish
members
Continuing. I.loyd George said that
if that was the Irish view, it would be
idle for the government to introduce a
bill bringing home rule into immediate
operation under any conditions, and he
regretted it deeply and thought that it
was a disaster
asiii rru tiihi:ath\s to takk
Ql'KSTIO.V III-:FORK PKOPl.K
At the conclusion of the debate on
a motion for adjournment made by
.tohn Redmond, the Nationalist leader, 1
Premier Asqitith made the significant
remark that he would take the Irish
question before tho people, if neces- ,
sar.v. Mr. Redmond's motion was lost.!
Mr. Asquith appealed to the Nation
alists not to lose the opportunity of
bringing home rule into immediate op-:
oration and said:
"I ask the house, and will ask the'
country, if necessary, if the govern- ;
mont's proposals arc not fair."
Mr. Asqulth declared that the ex
clusion of the six Ulster counties from
tho operation of the home rulo^act,
was. in his mind, the greatest give
and-take agreement ever made In the
history of a political controversy, ann
he asked tho Nationalists not tg break
off the negotiations.
Sir Edward Carson appealed to the j
Nationalists and said:
"It would not be a bad day for this
country, for Ireland, and for (he war, if
Mr. Redmond and myself should shake !
hands on tho floor of this house. (Loud
cheering.) Rut if that is to be done,
(here can be no idea of coercion of
Ulster. Let Ulster be struck from tho
bill. Then go on and win her if you
can: she ?.an be won by good govern
ment. ff the hopes of a settlement'in
Ulster and the rest of Ireland arc shat
tered now. It would be a calamity....
"At the end, of the war we will have
had enough lighting. We will have
other great questions to deal with, and
It Is Inconceivable that we should re
sumo our old quarrols."
or;
Even Though They May Not Go
to Mexico, Will Learn
Mounted Drill.
HAY BILL PROVIDES HORSES
Virginia Is Asked to Organize
Ten Companies of Coast
Artillery at Once.
In answer to th* rumhle of prcillrlinn
thnt the Blur? might eventually return
to their old p"v|tion of iuf;intryincn,
Adjutant-General Sale declared yester
day that the battalion was in t ho cav
alry for keeps. The Blues may liovcr
get to the front on the Mexican bor
flpr, and they may hp ;? long time secur
ing their horses her" in Itichniond, l>ut
there is no doubt In the mind of < Jen
oral Kale hut that thej will continue
to iv ea r the yellow hat cords and
eventually he supplied with enoush
mounts for training purposes.
"A squadron of cavalry is authorized
by the War Department as part of
Virginia's quota." said General Sale,
"arid the Blues have supplied the
vacancy. If the organization had re
mained in the infantry, it would never
have been called our."
Saddles and all other cavalry e^uip
ment for the squadron have h*>en hero
several wcks. and. although the Adju-j
tant-Genera! s effort? to secure horses
have been unavailing so far. there is
no question of hi? ultMn&te success.
I ndor the old militia law, horses for
cavalry troops of the militia had to
be supplied by tlK- State, but the re
cently enacted Hay bill provides for
horses to lie furnished by the Federal
government.
Unless the squadron is ordered to the
front, mounts for every man will prob-'
ably not he supplied, but sufllcient j
horses for adequate drill as cavalrv
will come In tiiii* Meanwhile, the
nines are taking in as much of the
theory of cavalry maneuvers as thev
can. and arc getting general experience!
in army life.
MAW OFFKMS TO MAISK
THUMPS Of." I'AVAIjWY j
Many ofTers from various sources'
have been made to Adjutant.General j
Sale by mPn anxious to raise troops]
of cavalry. ft j.? understood that in
.ase of need, several troops could he1
ready for inspection within a very
short time. After the coast artillerv
deficiencies of the State have been met.
it is possible that other cavalry organ
izations will be added alongside the
niues. As the War Department has
the decision of what branch of the ser
vice a body of soldiers is to enter it is
assured that for the present all new
organizations will go jn,? ,?A
artillery.
Ten companies of coast artillerv are
to he the next addition to Virginia's
armed forces, and until the formation
or those companies has been completed f
no other military organizations from !'
the .Mate will be accepted by the War
Department. The roast artillery com-"
pany at Roanoke, recently inspected
and mustered into the State militia, is j
?'t present the o^ly organization oft
that branch of the service in Virginia. [
\ ith the War Department pushing!
the movement to provide ten com- i
panies of coast artillery for Virginia
and with the service offering unusual '
attractions to men interested in join
ing the militia, it should be onlv aj
short time till the States full com
pK-mont is raiser! A company has nl- I
ready been ouganlzed at Lynchburg, it
is understood, but It has not been in
spected and passed into the regular
militia of the State Com pan I*? are
contemplated at South Boston. Bedford
City, Fredericksburg and other cities.
no.VVOKK rOMPA.VY 'I'll
nim.I. \ T FOBTIIFSS MO.VROF,
Although the company at Roanoko
was formed some time ago. It*did not
receive full equipment and was not
mustered into the State militia until
recently. rho ISoanoke company has
been ordered to Fortress Monroe for j
practice with the big guns guarding I
tbe entrance to Chesapeake Bay the
!st of August.
At their home towns, away from the;
seashore and the giant cannon, the men j
will drill and be equipped as infantry. |
With plotting boards and range!
finders, they will learn in addition con- j
?Id era ble of the technical side of the.
work of coast artillerymen. During f
their two necks' trip to the seaside j
every year the companies will round
out their training with practice in tar- i
pot firing and in manipulating the
complicated machinery of the guns.
Ollicers of the coast artillery com- :
panics will require considerable mathe
matical knowledge, and the privates I
will have to be men of'unusual alert-!
ness and quickness of perception. A
special instructor for the Virginia com- 1
panies lias already been designated by
the War Department, and every en- '
co ura gem cut will be given those who |
wish to enter the new branch of the
service. Adjutant -< lenera I Sale said
yesterday -that he anticipated little!
trouble in meeting the tall of the War
Department for the ten new com- j
panies. as he considered the coa*t artil i
Icry one of the most attractive forms'
of military service.
I'llikk m:ki? ok .ntatb.
IS COAST AUTIMjKHV
At the beginning of excitement over
(he Mexican situation the War Depart
ment called on Virginia for two regi
ments of infantry, one squadron ofi
cavalry, one field hospital, one amhu j
lance company, one company of thoi
Signal Corps, four batteries of field '
artillery, one company of engineers'
and ten companies of const artillory.
The entire need has been met with
slight exception, and in the case of
infantry there is supply [n excess of
the present demand. There is no am
bulance company in the State, but. un
less there is Immediate need for service I
(Continued "on Third" Page.) "
NIAGARA FAM.S KXCIIKSION
. .IIS round dip. July 27. via YOUIC niVBR
I/1NE to Baltimore, th*nen Pennsylvania H. |
It, Limit 16 dayn. Stopovers returning.
Si\ur 'Wiwiv'K
OF PQ7IF.R F.S
Prominent Men at Editors' Convention
KOI1T. S. RARRIOTT, President.
GOVKRNOR m:\liV C'. STL*ART.
JAMES \j. HART, Secretary.
mm 1 EARLY, JR.,
COMES OUT FOR CONGHEBS
Will Opposo Judge T. W. Harrison
for .Nomination in Seventh
, District.
COMMITTKK MKMTS TO-DAY
Will Dotermine .Method of t'lioosinp;
Successor in Cniigrrs^ni.'in James
Hay?Weaver, Mentioned to Suc
crol Harrison. Knv Opposition.
AniKHinccinoiii was made lust nicht
of the candidacy of State Senator N. B.
Early, Jr., of (Sreene C'nunly, for tho]
peat in Concrese from the Seventh Dis
trict. soon to lie vjiVated by Congress-j
man James Hay, w lm (ins been ap
pointed a Judge of tiif court of claims.
?Following s conference last nialu of
pupporters of Senator Karly, the fol
lowing: statement was ip'-ued t,y \V.
Sam Burnley. represent irnr Senator
Early:
"The friends of State Senator N*. B.
Early, Jr., who represents Albemarle,
rjreene and the city of Charlottesville,
are responsible for the statement that
he will he a candidate l'?>r Congress
front the Seventh l>istii<t of Virginia,
lo succeed .lames llay. who retires to1
accept a Federal J ml - ? ? h i p. Senator!
Karly has hen solicited to nin for Con
cress by many men of influence in thei
ilist riot.
"The friends of Senator Karly, in pre
senting his claims, say the contention, j
that as those counties of the ? dist rict.
lying east of the Blue IJidcce, have
furnished the Cone r?-sstnan for the
district covering a period of about
nineteen years, the honor should now
so to the counties west i?f the Blue
Itidge, is not well founded, and if the
honor is to be equallv divided between
the eastern and western sections of
the distriot, the counties, east of the
mountains are entitleil to (he Congress
luan for five or six ye;jrs t,> come.
"In support of this contention, it is
pointed out that the members ?,i run
cress from tho Seventh Distrbt. up to
the election of James May, had heon
chosen from w,\st of the Blue Kidcc for
twenty-four years in succt-.-'sio* that
the representatives of the district pur
ine this period were John T. Harris.
John Paul, Charles T. <vf*errnll an I
Smith Turner; and, further, that while
Mr. Hay has resided cast of the moun
tains during his term in Congress. h<
was born, reared and lived in the val
ley a good many years.
f'OXTI'INTIft.V AS TO IIISTItMT
IS MIT t I'llKI.I)
"Senator Early's friends maintain,
therefore, that to follow logically the
contention of Judge Harrison's friends,
and to apply the principle with just ice.
Judge Harrison Is out of court, and his
suit cannot mature for some years yet;
that he who seeks equity must do
equity.
"It. is not the intention of Senator
Early's supporters, on either side of
the mountain, to make this an Issue in
the campaign, but attention, is <alled to
the facts as they aro for the purpose of
rebutting the contention made by some
of the friends of Judge Harrison from
the upper Valley section, and in behalf
iConYlnued on-Soconcl Pnge.)
MAYOR H. H. WAYT, of Staunton.
Large At tendance Is Exported at An
mini Convention, Which
OponS To-I>a,v.
f.'OVKIiNOK STI'ART TO SPEAK
Secretary Hart Says Many New Mem
bers Will He Taken In?Social
Events Arranged for Pleasure of
the Visitors.
STAI'NTON, VA? Jul\ 24.?To-night
the vans; n aril of the Viicjnin Press
Association arrived in this city for the
twenty-eighth annual convention, which
opens to-morrow. morning'. Among to
night's arrivals wore President and
Mrs. Hohert S. Barrett, and Mrs. Kate
Waller Barrett. Mr. ami Mrs \V. F.
< 'art\e and Major ami Mrs A .1. Wert
derburn. of Alexandria; Secretary .lames
I.. Mart anrl Mr. and Mrs. R. <"? Brad
shaw, of Crewe.
F.very train is bringinc members,
while automobiles are arriving from
several of the near-by counties bring
ing representatives of the press of
this section.
Indications point ti> a meeting of
unusual interest. President Barrett's
annual repot t to-morrow morning will
flea I with ilie. paper situation, which
is a <1 nest ion of vital coimern to the
printing awl publishing business of the
Commonwealth. Other speakers at. the
opening session to-morrow morning
will he Governor Henry C. Stuart am!
Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett.
The opening session begins at 1 1
o'clock in Hie N'civ Theater, while to
morrow night's session,- at which Sec
retary of the Navy Haniels, John Bar
rett. director-general of the Pan
American t'nion; Mrs. Kate l.angley
(tosher. of Richmond: Lieutenant -Ciov
ernor J. Taylor Rllyson, Attorney.
General .toiin Garland Pollard and
Westmoreland Mavis, of the Farmers'
I'liion, will speak. will lie held in the
P.cverlev Theater.
Secretary Hart, who at this session
completes his t wenty-sccond year in
that capacity, predicted to-night that
the number of new members to be re
ceived would exceed all pr?yviotis years?
Individual members scattered through
out the State, he. said, had made per
sona! solicitation during the past few
weeks, witii the result that a largo
number of applications are ready for
considera t ion.
( (Ml 1IITTKK <>!?' "WtnitvN
tl.\S IIIOIO.V APPUl\Ti;i?
! The following committee will look
I after the pleasure and comfort of the
j women visitors: Mrs. K. \V. Hlssell,
chairman. Mesdames Albert Sliult/., <1.
A Sprinkle, W W. King. Franklin M.
(lunger. .1 H. Ilihbard, 11 1, Opie, T ?\
I Carrlngton, .1. A. Alexander and J. M.
Walter. The members of this commit
I tee will greet the visitors in the morn
ing. accompany them to the luncheon
at Gypsy Hill Park, to the Caverns
on Wednesday, and to the luncheon at
thfi Augusta Hotel on Thursday. -
It .1. M Payne, president of the
? 'ountry t'lub, has named Mrs. W.
Iti.sseil chairman of tho committee for
the entertainment on Thursday. The
following will serve on the committee
withr" her: Mesdames W.' F. Flcklen,
(C'O'itlnued on _Seco"nd Pag?T)
"M -ir?vj&.
FIGHT BITTERLY
FOR POSSESSION
Also Attempting to Gain
Head of Road Lead
ing to Bapaume.
AUSTRALIANS PROMINENT
IN WESTERN WAR NEWS
! Condition of Comparative Calm
South of the Somme on
French Line.
j GERMAN' REDOUBT OCriPTED
; No Important Changes in Fli?a Re
gion Reported in Either of
Communications.
The greater part of the village of
Pozieres is reported to be in the hands
j of Australian troops, and the latter are
fish tine fiercely with their foes for
i entire possession of the town.
A slackening In the ferocity of the
i fighting along the British front from
i Thiepval to Guillemont. is contained in
i Monday's dispatches Australians, who
) are hecominc prominent in western war
, news, arc still attempting to cain the
head of the road which leads from
Pozieres to Bapaume. in addition to
their creator efforts for occupation of
- Pozieres.
A condition <>f comparative calm pre
j vails south of the Somme along the
| French line, whore the only fighting
| reported?and that a minor cngaee
ment?resulted in the French capturing
! a German battery south of Kstrees.
i Eastward, in the Verdun region, the
French have occupied n Herman re
doubt west of Thiaumont. taking with
It five machine guns and twoscore pris
' oners.
' Berlin still asserts that the only re
l suli of the British attacks on Sunday
i along the Thiepval-Guillemont line wan
! the penetration of a few houses in the
village of Pozieres, and that the Alls
itralians obtained these only after hav
' i:ig suffered sanguinary losses.
(?BR MA VS FHO.M VKHDt'.V
?iO TO SO.MM 15 FKOXT
Thai liennan troops have been re
moved from the Verdun front for the
I Somme operations is apparent from the
German statement that Brandenburg
Grenadiers, "of Douaumont fame," de
feated the British in the flght Sunday
at Longuevnl.
Although unofTicial reports have
: credited to the Russians (gains against
the Germans in fhe Riga region of
Russia, neither the Potrocrad nor Ber
lin communications have as yet re
! corded any important changes In ter
ra i n t here.
Petrograd claims the dislodginent of
?fhe Germans from the village of Gal
! itchanie. on the i^ipe River. In Volhynla,
whllf Berlin says that near the Ga
j llclan border, in Southern Volhynla,
! sf rone attacks by the Russians against
J the German line were repulsed.
Kmperor William is reported to have
left the French front to observe the
operations in the east.
The Russians have mnde further
1 progress against the Turks in the
| Rrzingan region of Turkish Armenta.
wltile to the south, along the Persian
J front, the Turks report that they have
[gained fresh successes over the Rus
| sians. .....
The Italians in the A?tiro anrl Avize
recions of the A list ro- Tta lian theater
reported continued advances against
the Ausirians.
Premier Asqilith has asked the Brit
ish Parliament for an additional credit
vote on f 4.in.ft00,00n?the largest re
quested since the beginning of the war.
mttTIMI C.M'TI ?F. IMIIT
or > n.i.Atii-: ok po/.iKurs
I.ON'MON". .lulv t. ? British troops
have captured a large part of the vil
lage of Pozieres, says the official Brit
ish statement issued this afternoon,
j They also gained some ground near
High wood, in the direction of Guille
mom The night, the statement adds,
was comparatively calm.
The statement- follows*
"Apart from continued heavy shell*
i ing by both sides during the night,
j comparative calm followed the sever?
fighting of yesterday.
"Yesterday between High wood and
j Guillemont repeated counterattacks by
the enemy gained for him no advan
tage. and very heavy casualties were
indicted by our artillery and machine
gun tire.
"We gained some ground near High
wood and in fhe direction of Oullle
! monl. In the neighborhood of Pozieres
; we secured important advantages, In
J spiie of the stubborn defense of the
| enemy, and a large portion of the vll
j luiro is now in our hands. Here we
have c.tpiurofl two guns and sixty more
; prisoners
i.i:imhns i>tti\i:N n.vt K
|-J MII.KS O.V It !?? A FftO.VT
l.o.\IX'N, July 24.?The Get mans
i have lieon driven back twelve miles at
; one point on the Riga front, according
! to a Renter's dispatch from Petrograd.
! Progress for the Russians is claimed
' on a front running from the. Gulf of
P.iga to I'xkull, a distant*) of mor#
than thirty miles, the greatest advance
i being made along the coast line. '
? The dispatch says that fighting went
on without pauHA for four days prior
to Sunday. It has now halted, a* thrt
Russians require time to consolidate
