f
Partly cloudy to-dy and to-morrow;
little change of temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 77; lowest, 69.
Detailed weather, mail and marine reports on pago 1 1.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 329.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1916. Copyright, ltie. fey f flun Printing and rublUMng Auoclatlon.
itnMiV la ntj Now VnrV. 1 K1m
ONE
Jm City and Newark, i TWO
ASQUITH TELLS
COMMONS HOME
RDLEIS BLOCKED
Sensational Scene In Parlia
ment Lloyd George
Threatens to Itesigti.
REDMOND CHEERED,
CHARGING- BAD FAITH
Treniier Blames National
ists for Refusing to Ac
cept Amendments.
3,000 PRUDENTIAL
AGENTS ON STRIKE
IiiHinaiico Men Cnrry Out
Threat to Act. as Union Mem
bers Arc Dismissed.
MASS MKETIXfl IS HELD
Philadelphia Workers Quit
and Four Other Cities
Face Walkouts.
I AND NEW YORK PRE SSj
YONKERS CAR STRIKE
MAY SPREAD TON. Y.
Trolleymcn Plan to Extend,
Tie up (o Manhattan
Lines.
SEYEN DROWNED IN i FAREWELL SERVICE
OR NEAR NEW YORK FOR D BOAT'S CREW
I
Three Men, Three Ho.vs nnd , Communion Celebrated Aboard
GENERAL ELECTION
IS THREATENED
Irish Leader Denounces
British for Disgraceful
Conduct.
Ixrv.',.Iiily 14. Premier Asqulth to
day announced that the promised bill
(or the Immediate Institution of Irish
home rule would not be Introduced be
cause the Nationalists refused to ac
cept two modifications of the Lloyd
George agreement, namely, the perma
nent exclusion of the six counties of
Uliter and a diminished Nationalist
representation In the Imperial l'arlla
menu John Redmond, the Nationalist
leader, repeatedly cheered by his fol
lowers, denounced the new proposals
as an absolute nnd disgraceful breach
of faith toward his suportem.
The Premier In reply appealed to the
Nationalists not to throw away the op
portunity for bringing home rule Into
operation, Several times he was Inter
rupted by sarcastic cries of "small na-tonalities."
Kxecutlng their threat to strike If any
of the union employees of the Prudential
Insurance Company were dismissed, .1,000
of the company's agents walked out In a
body yesterday.
The Prudential company, the strikers
declared at a mass meeting In llryant
Hall, had by this arbitrary act Jeopatd
lied the life Insurance policies of thou
sands of their clients throughout the
United States.
A committee of strikers called nn Kd
ward H. Dutlleld, tile general solicitor of
the company. In Newark yesterday to
plead with him to defer any drastic
action so that the agents could wind up
their accounts with the policyholders
and protect them In time to prevent
lapses In case a strike was called Out
field, It Is charged, refused to see the
committee.
llnrry l.umpkln, president of the
union, who with Henry III. tit irr nnd An
drew lmiess formed the committee
which attempted to see Outfield, wind
the men assembled at Bryant Hall word
to strike, and the order was received
with wild enthusiasm by the 1,200 agents
who had gathered there by noontime,
Philadelphia Men Also Quit.
The walkout of yesterday was gener
ally expected and the men were pre
pared, l.umpkln and Charles II. Gnr-
tinkle, with other lenders, returned early
Woman Victims Fear of
Shark Halts' Rescue.
Yonkkrs, July 21. While the trolley
car men now on strike In Ynnkers and ,
Westchester county were threatening I .arsons, three men. three boys
this evening to extend their strike to ,, wman. were drowned yesterday
Manhattan before the end of the week ln wntf.rs ,,enr New York. Five of them
Corporation Counsel Currnn was In Al- wfre flwmmn)t, one upset In a ennoe
buny urging the Public Service Commls. antl on fr) from n barge,
slnn to force the street railway company simuel Harding. 3S. of 10 Summit
to operate Its cars. I street. Newark, might have been saved
He aked that the company s franchise . nan not ,nree ooy(t n row-boat, the
be forfeited miles, cars are put Into oniy praon, nPar. been nfraltl or rliarks
service as soon as possible. Chairman n ,ne Shrewsbury lllver. nenV High-
an Santvoord said the commls. on will lan,H, N. .,. Mr. uardK. pwlmmlng
consider the matter Immediately, and I a(,er a fuI1 m(.al wns Mru wlth a
that a decision may be expected within cpim). while his body was being re
three days at the latest. . I covered, Morris Camden of Bridgeport.
.Not a car wheel turned In Westchester conn., swimming near by. was also
county to-day. Commuters wete out In strcien and wn., bnr,y BnVeil.
rrowu, tnai Jammw tile streets leading I Adou,h Bcrtsch. li. of 2920 Klchth
the Xccknr With Prayer
for Safe Voyage.
to the railroad stations. Jitney buses
operated to the great profit of their own
ers. Owners of automobiles were never
so popular. The New York Central ran
extra train and cars on all three of Its
division Trademen operated their de
livery wagons as a courtesy to their cus
tomers. William V. Fitzgerald, general or
ganizer or the Aiiiilgamated Associa
tion or Street und Electric Railway
Employes, said to-night that the
strike will be extended to those lines
controlled by the Third Avenue Hallway
Company In The llronx. Seventy men
of the t'nlnn Hallway in The llronx
have Joined the union, he said, and soon
he expects to begin the task of organ
izing the S,000 men in Manhattan.
avenue, was drowned yesterday after
noon In the Harlem Hlver nt 157th
street. Other boys swimming with htm
suddenly mimed him. His body was
not recovered.
In trying to rescue his wire, with
whom he was bathing In a small siren m
in .xiontngu townsnip, near i-ori jervis.
N. Y Irwin Tetlow or 230 Hast Seventy
Bai.timoiib, July 24. A scries or hap
penings this aHcrnoon at the pier where
the itieulinnt submarine Deutschland Is
berthed Indicated that her departure
would not be long delayed. The most sig
nificant or these were the filling or her
water tanks and the stowing below her
deck of the crew's tieddlng as It was
removed rrom the Interned North Ger
man I.tojd steamship Neckar near by.
Since their arrival two weeks ago the
Oeutschla lid's sailors have been sleep
ing aboard the Necknr.
A communion service was held to
night aboard the Neckar for the cap
tain anil crew or the submarine. The
llev Otto Apltz, a Herman Immigrant
missionary, conducted the service. In
his prayer he asked thnt the vessel and
her crew might have a safe voyage home.
The service was followed by a baniuet.
Shoitly after the water tanks had
been tilled heavy blue smoke was no
ticed coming from behind the barges
that screened the Deutschland from view,
nnd directly at her stern. The wind blow
ing from the direction of the submarine
T ncti uie wiur ui u-i uiii ..tin i.
were
SOLDIER SON'S DEATH
A 'MILITARY MURDER'
,T. It. Healy, Father of Dead
2U llepr't Private, Demands
Washington Inquiry.
PEPPERY NOTES TO
ENGLAND PLANNED
Wilson, Nettled by Memoran
dum on Malls Seizure, Tells
Page to Act.
IGXOHKH REPLY TO QUERY
third street, New York, was drowned
yesterday. Mrs. Tetlow got In beyond evident that the vessel's engines
her depth, and when her husband came e!ng tested.
to help her. clung to him so that he I It wns lenrned that the Deutschland
could not swim. She was rescued and was partially submerged at her slip at
he drowned. 6 :30 this evening. The water Is not
A woman as yet unidentified fell from I deep enough for full submergence
CLOTHING STRIKE IS OVER.
a barge Intu the Morris Canal at Hud
son street. Jersey City, last night arid
was drowned. Capt. John Green of the
Howl, a harze. recovered the body.
Capt. Peter Ileekmnn of barge IS was ; law caning tor sucn acnon ai vne ex-
' . . . , . ... , 1 l ..I-.,. In.. ..f .t.
i nrresieti, uioiign ne s.no nr iwicw ucr i-i, '-n ... ..... w
I Olll) SHHnliy HUU SilC iVIl ilUIII II," uiiul
These activities were precede!! by the
sealing of the submarine's wlreleas ap
paratus by a Government rodlo inspector.
This was In accordance with a Federal
No application for clearance papers
xarrcmrnt Signed and Vote Will accidentally. had been moile up to tne close or dusi-
A man he eved to have heen a w re. nee ai imp . u-.iu, i.uu-
He Taken To-raorrim,
I less operator on the battleship Arkan-
; ! sas went out In a canoe on Greenwood . items it
1 Lake esterday morning. Later the''':',, M
Tn Take It to People.
n slgnlllranlljr tuld: "I ask
the
finite and will ask the rnualrr. II arcei.
tary. It the (internment's proposals art
lot fair
The agreement between'the Cloak, Suit
and Skirt Manuf.icturem Protective As
yesterday from Philadelphia, wheie they 1 soclatlon and the International ladles , canoe was found overturned, and the
had conferred with the leaders of the ' Garment Worker Colon, which will end lake Is being dragged, The man wore
agents there. Fifteen minutes after the ' the twelve weeks strike of 50,000 gar-I a sailor's unl'orm when he went to the
New York men had turned in their ac- inent workers In this city was completed i Hrandon House.
count books yesterday the Philadelphia j iast nlniit at a Joint conference In the I Millard Strunk. sixteen-year-old son
agents were called out. Metropolitan llulldlng. and was signed i or
When the mass meeting was called to , lv n.-ireseutatlves or both sides. It will
order telegrams were read by the chair- , be Mibmltted to a referendum vote of
man from Heading and Germantown. , the union to-morrow.
Pa.. Chicago, and ('.linden, N. J., saying 1 The agreement, which Is to run for
the union men In these places were fa.l- 1 three years, follows ubstnntlal!y the
Ing In line. , lln forecast several da ago. Week
"There Is cue thing the Prudential , workers gain Increase of from $1 to
company seems to have overlooked." said . i,;o a,lti operators and finishers, work
l.umpkln In a speech last night at llryant , nK n an hourly basis, receive & cent
Hall after Harry Shapiro, t.ecretary or increases.
ARSHIP IN WAIT.
Mrantier Off Cape llenrr Believe
to lie Battle Cruiser.
Nonvoi.K. Va., July 24. The appear-
i-Mar,l strunk was seized wtthinnce or n strange warship off Cape
cramps and drowned In the Deluware Henry to-day led to rumors thnt
Hlver near Newton. N. J. Bovs with I British nnd 1 rench fleet or considerable
whom he was swimming recovered the size was In the vicinity of the southern
body after diving for ten minutes. prill grounus mu" wic urminuir .
llir lei iii.in punm.iiiic i.i , , ... ....... . .
Thirteen-year-old Sylvester Wagner of
James It. Healy, father of Private
Clinton O. Jlealy of the Twenty-third
Infantry Ileglment, Brooklyn, who died
In a hospital nt Pharr, Tex., said last
night at his home, 637 Park place, that
he was determined to get all available
Information concerning his son's Illness
and death. For this purpose he has
written to the Adjutant-General at
Washington ns follows:
"Sin: ln view of the many conflicting
rcuorts regarding the death or my son.
Pilvnto Clinton Healy, In a hospital at
Pharr, Tex., I most urgently request that
the proper authorities make n thorough
Investigation Into the nature of my son's
Illness and the cause of his death with a
view to determining whether his death
wm due to gross negligence, ns reported,
and tlxlng the responsibility therefor.
"I make this reiiuost not for the sake
or my boy. He Is beyond recall, 1 do
so, however, for the well being or other
boys who have left trood homes to take
up arms In defence of their country.
"If the medical treatment and other
conditions, obtaining on the border are
such as to menace the lives of these
soldiers then the Government should at
once remedy them. A thorough Investi
gation Into the recent deaths there alone
can throw light on the subject and bring
about better conditions."
Mr. Healy decided to act arter he had
read nn anymous communication pur
nortlnc to have been written by a com
rade or young Healy. The writer in that
Instance attributed the death of the
Brooklyn soldier to neglect on the part
of the medical authorities. It was al
leged In the, letter that Healy was re-
fused treatment for Jaundice, the physi
cians having diagnosed his ense us
homesickness. The Informant went on;
"They (the physicians) sent him back.
He lay In his tent, which was flooded
with water, for two or three hours
longer until lie had got beyond help.
Then they shipped him to the hospital."
"If the statements In that letter are
true," Mr. Healy exclaimed, "then the
death of my son was nothing short of a
military murder, but what can we do
for him? IVe burled him yesterday."
To Announce Stand on Black
list To-day Unless He
Changes Mind.
Phllllpshurg, N. J., also was drowned In i Deutschland or tl
the Delaware Hlver near there. He was ship, the Bremen
Deutschland or the arrival of her sister
a Brooklyn loral. had sung 'Till the 1 Preference Is to be given to union em
Sands of the Desert Grow Cold" as part ployes. nnd manufacturers are made
of the vaudeville feature of the evening. n holly responsible for condltlone In the
I'and that Is that the officers of the com- I ..hops of their eub-contractom. x
pany do not run the e ncern. We can The most radical departure In the
control the policyholders, who are our r.-ireement Is the elimination of all me-
Thcse were briefly the outstanding friends. I dlatlon boards In the adjustment of dis
features of to-day's session or the House "ou know and I know that In many , putes which may arise. The unions re-
of Commons, the most sensational It has ' "truiies, in raet in mousanus or nomes.
had since the outbreak of war. we are considered their friends. We
The Bally .Veics reports thnt David have been entertained and In many mat
Lloyd George. In view of the failure of ters our ndvice nnd couns.M has been
the Irish negotiations. In which he was nen me nine io i '
the chief agent, offered to resign his next . vemuer ami me proxies are s-m COLONEL IN PLAGUE FIGHT.
bathing with other Iwys.
rerve the right to strike Instead when
conditions In any shop are unsatisfactory.
office.
"The Premier's attitude," says the
Vfw, '! understood to be that If Mr.
Lloyd George resigns he should con
sider himself obliged to resign also. The
matter is now being discussed.
around to the policyholders by the com
pany they'll vote for us."
I.ond Cheer by the Strikers.
This statement was received with loud
cheers by the men.' Their enthusiasm In-
HOT IRON CURES ANTHRAX.
Rlverhraa'. I.. I.. Doctor Vara
Heroic Trratmrat on Victim.
ntvrmiKAn. L. I . July 24. Dr. Allen
O, Terrell here yesterday pronounced as
cured a well developed case of anthrax
which had given grave conern to the
locnl health authorities
Alexander Waupenskl viilted Dr.
Terrell's offlce recently, suffering from
what the physician des.-rlled as an
aggravated cae of the disease. The
patient had little expectation of living.
The use of serum had failed in the ease
of ex-Judge George F Stackpole. who
died of anthrax last winter
Kecollectlng that n brother practl
There is no doubt that the events , rreast(i wnen It was found that th
of the past week, culminating In the
Irish fiasco." adds the paper, "have
weakened the coalition government's po
sition." Threatens General Election.
The sensation caused by the announce
ment of the Premier not to Introduce the
Home Hule bill was. If anything, over
ihadowed by his plain threat that, If
necessary, he would plunge the country
Into a general election on the Home Rule
bill a step which both Lrberals and
Unionists have been ateadfastedly striv
ing to avoid.
Speculation Immediately became rife
In the lobbies of the House as to what
would happen to Hedmond and his fol
lowers If an election took place at the
prent time.
Many expressed the opinion that the
Nationalists had lost the confidence of
many of their constituents, and would
therefore run a serious risk of defeat.
The outcome of to-day's Bitting on the
Irish situation Is thnt It remains where
it was with the additional factor of the
unrest brought about by the disappointed
hnpm of a settlement of the Issues.
In the absence or any amending bill
th order In council, dated September,
1515, postponing the operation or the
Home Rule Act ns It stands tn the statute
book until six months arter the lapse or
eighteen months unless the war was
previously ended, remains In force.
To-day'e mix-up has given great satis
faction to the newly formed Imperial
Unionist Association, comprising mem
bsre of both the Lords and Commona.
They are bitterly anti-Home Itule, and
will exert every Influence to prevent any
settlement of the difficulty.
Redmond Raises Issue.
When the House met this afternoon
mr, Hedmond asked, amid loud Nation
list cheers, whether the Government
had decided to depart from the terms of
in agreement arrived at by the Irish
rarty and based upon the proposals
"isie ny secretary for War Dav Id Llovd
George, whether the Government had de
termined to insert ln the bill new nro
posals at variance with the agreement
without consulting the Nationalists and
whether the Premier had received any
Intimation that a bill so framed would
t vigorously opposed by the Nation
alists,
Premier Asqulth In reply pointed out
that the agreement was subject to the
approval of and revision by the Cabinet.
Two main nolntn be nsld. had emetsred
from th agreement and these had been
ccepted by hoth sections of the Cabinet,
I'ntonlMs nnd home rulers. The Union
ist", the Premier said, Influenced very
largely by the attitude of Mr. Hedmond
and his friends during the war, had
agreed that horn rule should "e
brought Into Immediate application,
hll" the home rule section had agreed
that the six I'lster counties should not
1 brought In without their consent.
Mi Hedmond repudiated the Interpre
tation, and asked whether It was not a
fact that on Saturday last l.loyd George
r.4 Herbert I.. Samuel, the Home Serre.
tary, had sent him a message saying
thit a decision bad been reached by the
Onvernment on the two points mentioned.
Prtm'ler Aeiiullli tepcated that the
Government would not Introduce any bill
'"HI It waa satisfied that It met auh
tantlally with the assent of all parties.
"After final and full examination,"
tt -
feu Cttu44 m JM4K4 Pag.
number of men who had walked out In
the morning had Increased another thousand.
The best proof that the company Is
deal," said Lumpkin to a reporter for
The Scn, "l this order sent to every
agent, which reads "No matter what
lds (ltrr Bay Because He la In
"(iramldaddy Class."
OrsTF.H Hat. I.. I , July 24. Col. tlouer. Dr. John H. Benjamin, was In
Hoosevelt and 100 others met at the possession or an old fashioned c.iuterlz
Town Clerk's office this afternoon to ling Iron, Or Terrell borrowed It.
map out a plan to combat the spread I 'The remedy was a harsh one, but
of Infantile paralysis. Four new caseslthe exigencies of the case warranted its
have been repotted since Frld.iv
"We nre all Interested as father or
not giving Its policyholders a square J grandfathers," the Colonel said," and I
am In the grand daddy cla
Col. Hoosevelt was appointed a mem
her of a committee which will launch a
the circumstances may be, when pre-1 campaign to-morrow, ins renow mem-
mums arc found to be four weeks in ar- ' w" ineiuue juoge uooen . ijr.ai.
rears policies must be cancelled. Any
agent violating this rule renders himself
liable to Immediate dismissal.'
That meuna that In New York and
New Jersey there are thousands of pol
icies which will lapse. If the company
had dererred their action a week, as we
requested. It would have given the agents
time to have called upon their customers.
Hnudreda of the policyholders are ln
arrears three weeks. Another weeks
lapse will cost them their iollclee."
It waa estimated by the strikers last
night that about fifty of the union's
leaders were dismissed In the morning.
These Included men In Bayonne, Jersey
City, Hoboken and Newark.
Men Won't Submit Grievances.
The union leaders said yesterday that
they were not going to submit any
llat of grievances to the company. They
are taking the attitude thnt they did
not strike, but were technically locked
out. They contend, therefore, that It la
not their move yet and will wait for
the company.
The strikers, however, insisted last
night that in falrneaa to the policy
holders they would nave preferred to
submit the matter to arbitration ami not
Interfere with the company's business.
The men aay they make less than
L a week on an average and that
IS of this- Is expended for carfares and
postage stamps. The new order of the
company of June 3 holding them re
sponsible for paid up pollclea and cash
surrender policies made It Impossi
ble for them to earn any money In
commissions for new business.
The Prudential company announced
last night that sixty men had been dis
missed for the good of the service nnd
would not be reinstated. There was no
ground for complaint, the company said,
as the earnings or the men had increased
30 per cent, In five years. The company
also reassured the policyholders that
they would be protected, as men would
be employed to take care of the bualness
promptly.
COL, C0NLEY ASKS NEW TEST.
Commander of OOth Berks V. ft. A.
Physical Examination
Col, Louts D. Conley or the Hlxty-nlnlh
Heglment, N. O. N, Y went to Gover
nor'a Island yesterday nnd filed n writ
ten application for reexamination of his
nhvs cal condition Dy united males army
surgeons. Ha believes If he Is examined
again lie will be found fit to command
his regiment and that Gen. Leonard
Wood's order to have him mustered out
of the service win t rescmaea.
Gen. Wood was not at army head
quarters when Col. Conley called, but
h left his application with the Oen-
erat'a adjutant. Col. Simpson, snd the
ehlef of staff, coi. jinriiou.
Col. Conley has not yet received the
r.nnrt of the original physical examina
iinn which Secretary Baker said had
been sent to him. He thinks It was
mailed to the headquarters of his rl-
nant at HUtuon. -rax.
John F. Birmingham. Mrs. Charles
Tlffanv. William Loeb. Mrs. V. M. Town-
eend, Mrs. Thomas Clarke and . Mor
gan Griffith.
The Colonel exhibited Interest In a
statement that virtually all the sen ago
f the village Is emptied Into an open
brook.
The committee will first take up the
question of overcrowding In the Italian
section. A sub-committee will make a
house to house canvass to end unsani
tary condition.
use," declnred the doctor. "I cnuierizeu
the pcstules, repenting the o;ieratlon
three times, and the patient responded
nicely to the treat rent. To-day he re
turned to his farm and went to work."
The warship Is believed to be one of
the new British battle cruisers. She
has three funnels. Simultaneous with
her appearance the four funnelled war
ship, thought to bo- French, which has
been patrolling Just outside the three
mile limit for several days, struck out to
the east nnd disappeared. The vessel
Washinoton. July 24. President
Wilson Is about to adopt a more pep
pery attitude toward Kngllsh Interfer
ence with American trade, but the new
campaign probably will not go beyond
the note writing stage. At present there
I.i no Intention or attempting reprisals,
but Mr. Wilson, It Is sold, Intends now
to press the American grievances against
Great Britain more vigorously.
As evidence or the President's Inten
tlon Great Britain's preliminary mem
orandum over the mall seizures con
troversy was hardly In the State Depart
ment to-day berore Ambassador Page
bad been directed to ask the British
Foreign Office when the expected reply
to this Government's last note on this
subject will be rorthcomlng. The Brit
Ish memorandum was regarded by the
Administration as evasive and unsatla
rnctory.
Criticism Nettles Wilson.
The British memorandum, however,
contains paragraphs which by their Im
piled criticism have nettled the Presi
dent nnd he Is roady to press the case.
even though results be not forthcoming.
The British memorandum, made public
nt tin- State Department to-day, begins
by Informing the L tilted States when the
mail seizures reply may be expected or.
lr other words, answering the question
uhlrli Mr. Page has been directed to ask
to-day.
"The reply of the allied Governments."
the memorandum stales, "will be com
municated to the Cnlted States Govern
ment so soon as the arguments con
tained In that note have been fully con-f-Idered
by the allied Governments In
consultation."
In dealing with specific cases the
rtrltl'h memorandum complains that
this Government alludes to "a large
number of complaints," but gives no
BRITISH TR001
IN NEW GAIN!
TAKE POZIERES
In Fierce Fighting They
Also Advance Toward
Guillcmont,
BATTLE CONTINUOUS
SINCE SATURDAY
Australian Forces Said to
Be in Almost Complete
Possession of Village.
RUINS AND FIGHTEKS
HID BY THE FIRE
Bursting Shells Churn
Earth as Attack Rages
Furiously.
KAISER LONGS FOR BATTLE.
Regrets He Cannot Flht Beside
Soldiers In Trenches.
London. JuIt 24. Emperor William,
during hla recent trip to a point some
where In the rear of Teronne, on the
which appeared to-day was the fourth , Jjmme from says a ""Paten to tne
from allied navies that has been out-1 'rom """' m"'
side the capes within ten days. Three
of them are supposed to have been
British.
Failure or the Bremen to appear
cnuved considerable disappointment In
German circles here to-day. The reeling
prevailed that the departure of the
Deutschland from Baltimore might be
delayed Indefinitely, pending receipt of
news regarding the Bremen. If she has
fallen Into a trap. It Is pointed out. It
would be unwise 'or the Deutschland to
make out to sea unadvised.
London, July 24. British troops In
carrying on their drtvo havo captured
a large pat or the vlllago of Pozleros.
They also Knitted some ground near
High Wood, ln the direction of Qullle
mont. At Pozlcrt-M the Australians are still
fighting furiously with the Germans
for possession of the vlllago and the.
head of the road leading from It to
Bnpaume, nnd tho greater part of tha
village Is now reported to bo ln their
hands.
There lias been no diminution ln tha
vicious fighting which began Saturday;
night along the British front from
Tlilepoval to Guillcmont.
Hid by Cnrtaln of Fire
particulars despite repeated requests for) Wlat the tlincla, DUietlns call a cur-
theee particulars In order that the Brit
ish Government mlgnt he enamea prop
erly to Investigate them.
I'nless he changes his mind after the
Cabinet meet Ing President Wilson will au
thorize an announcement of thle Govern
ment's policy with respect to the British
blacklist of American Arms to-morrow.
It Is not known what form tha an
nouncement will take or whether It will
be made In nnother note to the British
Foreign Office.
Experts Withdrawal of Mat.
tain of fire hid the ruins of PozleTes.
There the Australians had yesterday
established themselves on one side of the
main street, with the Germans on the
other. Ptiremlttlngly tho German guns
kept a curtain there, with burst after
burst of ahrapntl, raining bullets and
high explosives.
Their black bursts churning the earth
on the other side of the massed remain,
of that village, which Is precious high
ground, the British guns placed the
same kind of a curtain, as If serving
the same kind of a notice that no ono
DANIELS IS NOT CONFIDENT.
GRATUITY TO MILITIA WIDOWS.
MOTOR TRUCK CRASH; 4 HURT.
Car lilts Nnlinsr KlnaW at ndth
Slreet nnd Broadway.
A motor truck at Ninety-sixth street
and Broadwny Inst night, In avoiding
a horse drawn truck, smashed Into a
subway kiosk and a florist shop Injur
ing four persons so badly that they
were taken to a hospital, A score more
were slightly hurt.
Mrs. Frieda O'Conner. 185 West lOnth
street. Mrs. Amelia Marclllo, l?.ri8
Broadway, Brooklyn, William Lewis,
employed by Nick Pateles, florist at 2568
Broadway, and I'ateies nan to De tanen
to the Knickerbocker Hospital.
The driver of the truck. Thomas J.
Carroll or 2799 Eighth avenue, was ar
rested,
Entitled tn Sli .Months Pay of Sol
diers, Decide. Comptroller.
Washington. July 24. In response to
a request from the Secretary of War
the Comptroller of the Currency to-dny
rendered an opinion holding that tho
widows of Nntlnnnl Guardsmen are ns
much entitled to the same gratuity of six
months pay upon the death of the sol
d!er ns the widows of officers ami en
listed men of the regular army.
"The mlllt la r National Guard," says
tho Comptroller, "In ought Into the ser
vice of the I'nlted States becomes a
iwrt of the army of tho I'nlted States
nnd the officers and men thereof are :ie
effectually In the service of the I'lilted
States as nre any of the olllcera and en
listed men of the regular army.
TWO POLICEMEN ACCUSED.
Man nnd Girl Chnrsre OmVer. With
Unprovoked Assnnlt.
After a hearing Chief Inspector Max
Schmlttberger yesterday preferred
charges of unbecoming conduct against
Lieut. Mnx Neumnler ami roiicemnn
William A. Cnrey of Inspector Colllns's
staff.
The two policemen were reveaieq as
the men who entered the kitchen In the
rear of Jacob Htrobel's saloon, 2.1 Fresh
Pond road, Maspeth, Queens, on July
to, when Stmbel's niece, Louise Ho
hoach, nnd FrAnk J. Schulthels of 25
Mymuud place, Maspeth, were there.
The couple assert that the policemen
seized them without provocation, In
flicting scratches and bruises by their
violence,
Leon G. Godley, Deputy Commissioner,
will try the cases In Brooklyn next week.
PLUNGES OFF FIRE ESCAPE.
t .
Smrr Couldn't Cope With
Coast Defences, He Saya.
Secretary Jostphus Daniels does not
believe the United States Navy could
ope with the coast fortifications of the
'lilted States. Tho National Security
l.oHgue recently asked him this, and his
answer Is as follows:
Your attention Is called to the ract
that the Navy Is not designed to go up
ngalnst const fortifications. These
fortification constitute an Immobile
defense that would serve as a protec
tion for places of refuge should any of
our ships find It neccssnry to seek such
refuge.
The league has sent out an appeal to
Its 100,000 members to write to their
members in Congress In support of the
naval appropriation bill as amended by
the Senate, now In conference between
the two houses.
speech to the German wounded soldiers j
which Is attracting great attention tn,
Germany. The German Emperor Is
quoted as saying: The President Is confident that he can might pass the barrier of death nnd Join
"It is tho most poignant griet or m VTfH!l tr,o ense on tho ground that tho ln the struggle of tho combatants sur
lUe that I am unable to take a more ac-1 nrth nction Is discriminatory to Amer- . rounded by an Infernal ring.
tlvo part In this war, it Is my earnest onM Interests and that he can avoid But back from thn scene camo more
desire to tnke my placo In the trenches placing the Issue on the basis of a prisoners and two guns taken and news
ami tn deal such blows nt our enemies as ,lrct Interpretation of Great Britain's . that the Australians, not content with
my age nnn sirensm woum periim. rights under International law. Sen-1 holding one side of the street, now had
"I could tako my ptnee with the ' M(ir ,,()kc Smtthi fr talking with the .both, and digging, bombing, ducking and
youngest of you, and I promise that I vresldent to-day. said he thought the rushing amid piles of fallen bricks nnd
would leave my mark on the enemy. But U( wou, (. ettled cither by with- ' debris, were piesslng on to tho mastery
the Inscrutable Almighty has willed ',,,.,. . - ,r,itifl.-nilnn of the blacklist. of the whole villain.
otherwise, into my care has been com- t-,,. i..i,i..u ,icp in set forth th 1
mltted by Divine destiny the leadership ,tl01, of ,,, (;ovfrnment In a force-I PouniHnic Without Stop,
on laLTni."" armies and Its forces fMy wonIpd ,)ott? mrt wltn ,,lm. mJ )f a
Ti?. hnrH.n n'f thinwinr .fMin, .ml'11!' ,n ,ho ,BOt ,nat t,le s,!,,, beyond the 1 laretit In-le-I 'et 1 1 were the
leidu g has been laid ut-on me and '""" l)?8 "V ,of tor this sultry day. with the thick
i-L ,1. , ? '"' ,h.J""" IT!'"" the American case The chler difficulty ,, of th(1 tr.0 , thr ,nr an,, tUn
.".-'"? "." " .". -. . that confronts this tiovernment. it i
ii.iv ik: rirnrii 111 Mir lurt mum line u. imi
tie
'".smoke of whclls over the field of battle
e wh Z my f.eilngi -If unrestrained" I mW- ,hc fart lh8t FnnT ,w" hanging low Never sine the battle of
ould m. mi S' ""restrained, mucn more BWtfpUiK restrictions against , smtll(. w.in ,ms the .uricspomlent
"m- flf?mu. be I conserved carefully I " "'"'L!.1 1" A"''"'"" more shell-
for the welfare of Germany In order to
carry out the duties assigned to me by
Divine appointment."
MAY SEIZE GERMAN SHIPS.
TEXAS BEST GUNNERY SHIP.
nf
Women Prlsonera Play Ball.
Baseball haa been ndded to the pro
gramme of dally exercise for the women
prisoners In the Queens County Jail at
Ing Island City, and now every morn
ing from 7 to 9 two teams battle for
supremncy.
Isih Anoii.is, July 24, A flve-mlnute
period of general prayer for peace In
Kuropo Is asked by Mayor C. K. Sebas
tian In a proclamation Issued to-day.
Th tlm la 11 A. M. August L
Peter (Jandert, llctlrrd Snlt .Mann-
fartnrrr. Attempts Snlcldr.
Sidney Bronskl was taking the nlr at
the front window of his home, 417 Kast
166th street, last evening when he saw
a man on a fire escape opposite hurl first
a straw hat, then a coat, then a walking
stick to the pavement, then plunge over
the railing himself.
Bronaki set up an nlarm of suicide, at
tracting the attention or many In the
street. The man was picked up with
fractured spine and Internal Injtllles
and taken to Lebanon Hospital.
He was Identified by Mrs. John Dorey
of 416 Fast ISBth street ns her father.
Peter Onndert. a retired suit mnnuMet
urcr, who has long been III.
DR. LEHANE MAY LOSE ARM.
Scalpel Klip. In Autopsy on Slow-
sway, Cau.lnw In fee led Wound.
When the body of a stowaway was
found beside a can or water nnd three
crusts of bread In the hold of the I'nlted
Fruit liner Calamares, when the vessel
reached here from Southern ports last
Tuesday. Dr. Timothy D. Lehane, Coro
ner's physician, was detailed to perform
nn autopsy.,
He disclosed that the man died of a
Southern fever. ln the autopsy Dr.
Lrhnne's scalpel slipped, Inflicting a
gash on his left arm. Yesterday his
liaiiil and arm swelled greatly and It
became evident the wound was Infected.
Dr. Lehane may lose the arm.
84 SPOTS SEEN ON THE SUN.
Rrothrr llnbert Hays Big One
Brokr Into Fragments.
St. Ii!i, Mo., July 24. Klghty-four
pots on the sun were observed to-day by
Brother Hubert, profesror of astronomy
at the Christian Brothers College,
Ten daya ago Brother Hubert observed
one spot on tho sun. This spot, which
had a diameter or 11,000 miles, begun to
break up Into smaller spots. Sunday 107
wars visible and to-day elfhty-four.
Mnkes .ill Around Percentage
Oil. 7 In lit I ft-to.
Washington. July 24. The battle-
hip Texas, Capt. J. Hood commanding.
has won the pennant ror tne nest an
around gunnery for 191f-l. Her per
centage is 0.1.7, computed by her scores
at battle tnrget practice, elementnry gun
pointers' practice, torpedo practice and
every other form of gunnery,
Following the Texas, the standing of
the other ships follows: Virginia, 78.84 ;
Michigan (battle efficiency pennant win
ner), "S.S25 ! Nebraska, 76.109 ; New
York, 72.S04 ; New Jersey, 62.374 ; Rhode
island, 62,ir. ; Florida, f.l.r.7 : Wyoming,
.-7,n7."i ; San Diego, M.453 ; South Caro
lina, .M71H; Uiutslana, 49.406; Dela
ware, 46.4HH; Kansas, 40.0(2; L'tnh.
37.65!); Arkansas, 33.927.
nraslllan Conarre.. to Consider
Rrsolntlnn Soon.
Bto Janliro, July 24. The question of
requisitioning German ships In Brazilian
ports will shortly be taken up by the
Brazilian Congress, Deputy GoucaHes
Nnia Is preparing a resolution authoriz
ing such a requisition,
There nre thirty-eight German nnd
four Austrian ships In Brazilian ports,
valued at $15,000,000 to 120,000,000, The
largest Is the Hamburg-American liner
Hluecher. 7,592 tons, There has been ill
will against Germany in Brazil lining to
the fact that Germany seized Brazilian
coffee worth J7.000.000 and refused pay
ment.
After Portugal requisitioned German
shjps In her ports last February It was
reported that Brarll hnd taken similar
action. Germany's declaration of war on
Portugal was greeted by pro-ally demon
stration In Bio Janeiro.
PORT'S TRADE $2,169,000,000.
Kxunrts and Import. Nearly llnlf
Total of Nation,
Combined Imports nnd exports of New-
York for the year ended June .10 were
$'.',169,000,000, the third time they hnve
been above the $2,000,000,000 mark, the
fifty-eighth annual report of thu New-
York Chamber of Commerce, mado pub
lic yesterday, shows.
"Comparing this grand total with the
imports and exports combined of all
ports In the United States, $4,442,7ri9,
080," the report continues, "It Is evident
that New York's share Is easily morn
than oue-hair or the total commerce of
the nation,"
5 BITTEN DESPITE MUZZLING
other firms having enemy afllllatlnns and
this Government has made no attempt to
counteract this.
It Is pointed out thnt Great Britain's
reply to this Government's protest might
he hlniply to enforce the prohibition
ngalnst trading with the enemy In the
same sweeping manner that France has
enforced It. This would result In an
enormous loss of American trade. There
fore there Is concern among the many
firms which are ln good standing with
Great Britain over their possible losses
should President Wilson press the case
to the pdnt of forcltu; n change In Great
Britain's present so-called discrimina
tory policy.
FIRMS START FIGHT.
BRITISH TAKE 3 OFF U. S. BOAT.
Sntlnra Seised In Australia Allrsrd
tn lie (lermnns.
Port Townsknp, Wash., July 21.
Capt. Fred Wnnn, moeter of the Amer
ican schooner W. 11. Mnrston, reported
on the arrival or his vessel hero to-day
Zlniiiiermiiiui, Banker. Heads I'er-
mamrnt OrRanlsatlnn.
Leopold Zlmmermann nf Zlmmerni.mn
A Forsh.ty, bankers, accepted yesterday
the permanent chairmanship nf the or
ganization comprising many members of
firms which have been blackllHted by
the British Government. Ho was In
conference with lawyers nnd members
of the organization, working out a plan
to get the backing of the I'nlted States
In requesting thn Biltlsh Government
to rescind Its order
The measures which the blacklisted
tlrius will take to combat the Brltleh
order were not disclosed yesterday, Mr.
'.Iminermami s.-ild that he expects to
have the aid of nn advisory committee.
"We ar making haste slowly," said
Mnurlcn II. Blumenthal of counsel to
thn organization last evening, "The
Ing by luh jddes
Pounding, with no reciss, proceeding
on every p.llt of the line, but Is tfi.irtlcil
larlv he-ivy on the rU'it of the line, ns
well ;ih on the left at I'ozures, Tho Ger
mans nie pouting In an unceasing vol
limn on the Troncs wood, wlieio the
British Infantry f:icos tlu vill.ige of
Guillcmont, ami answering thunders are
deluging t u 1 11. muni.
What Policies Is to the left Gullle
mont und Cinchy bejond, are to tho
rkiit. A"-iareiitly tho Oerm.ina have
htoiitfht still mure guns and troops from
Verdun for the Ismio at stnku heu
A condition of compai.itlvo calm pre
viiIIh south of the Sotumo nlong tlje
French line, where the ou.y fighting ru-ported-
and that u minor engagement
resulted in the French capturing a Ger
man battery south of Cmives. Kast
vvard, in the Verdun region, the Frcncti
have occupied u German redoubt west
of Tlil.tmnnt, taking with It five ma
chine gtins nnd two scnio of prisoners,
Berlin still asserts tint tho only result
of the British attack Sunday ulong the
Thlepval-Gulllemont line was tho pene
tration of a few houses In tho village of
ozleres. anil that tho Australians ob
tained these only after having suffered
sanguinary losses.
That Oerrinn troops nave Tsjert re
moved from the Verdun front for the
Snmi:n operations Is apparent from the
German statement that Brandenburg
grenadiers "or Douaumont fame" de
feated the British In the ngnt .Sunday at
Ixmgueval.
that he was compelled to give up to the Kre,it Importance and far reaching effect
British authorities at Newcastle, Alls-. of the controversy between tho two
tr.illn, three sailors who were alleged to
bo German subjects.
The men, W, Kngllsh, W, Hanson and
W. Bitter, who were roirlsleied op the
ship's articled when she sailed from Port
land, Ore., January 22, 1916, ns citizens
of Norway, Sweden and Holland ie
spectively, were tnkeu from the Mnrston
on March 1 last, tho day the schooner
was scheduled to sail rrom Australia.
Capt. Wnnn said he has sent a for
mal complaint to tho State Department.
SEEGER'S DEATH CONFIRMED.
of
Two of Bouts' Victims Are Taken
to Hospitals.
Flvo children at play In Manhattan
and The Bronx were bitten by dogs yes
terday, despite the health department
rule requiring muzzles,
Catherine Mulkeal of 270 West 117th
street, and Mary Flynn of 295 Kast
144th street, were tnken to hospitals.
The other bitten were Kberhardt Schaef
fer of 131 Kast Eighty-third street,
William Clancy of 5(2 West Forty-sixth
street, and Joseph Campbell of 141 West
Thirty-eighth street
Postal From Corporal Tells
Americans Bravery.
Special Cable penpatrh to Tint St v
pAnis, July 24. Mlr.s Margaret A.
Stevens of 114 Hue Saint Dominique,
who two daya ago received news of the
death at thn front of Alan Seeger, n
young American member of tho Foreign
Legion, to-dny received a postcard from
Seeger's corporal, dated July 20, which
leave. no doubt of Seeger's fate,
"Seeger was killed." writes Corporal
Barret, ''during the assault on Helloy-cn-Santerre.
Ho died iih he lived, Indiffer
ent to all danger, n real soldier nnd hero.
Nobody regrets his denth more than 1
do. Often I think of his cheery smllu ;ih
ho advanced ngalnst the German ftmf.
which he simply despised."
countries' require that the American side
he presented delihenitoly and without
excltcm.-nt or clamor, This shocking
attempt of u foreign nation to discipline
citizens of a neutral ountry for con
duct distinctly within their rights Is
obviously the most menacing develop
mont of the great Kuropean conflict,"
After describing the trade which
Kngland has carried on with the i'nlted
Stntes nlnce the war began, he added:
"Kngland certainly ban been strength
ened, and If It Is fair now for us aa neu
trnl cltlzenH voluntarily to deal with
Knglnnd und thus strengthen her, how
etui Kngland ho heard to say that wo
are to be excommunicated from the
realm of commerce If we voluntarily
deal with Knglnnd's adversaries, thereby
strengthening them? Tho saying ap
plies that what l 'sauce for tho goose
Is miuce for tho gander.
It was learned jesterday that several
fur firms with brnnches In Germany
have come under the ban of Kngland.
Among them Is 1. Arlowltsch ts Co., 104
West Twenty-seventh street. Louis A,
Cohen, head of the firm, said vesterday
that hi llun waa on tho blacklist, but
that every director and every stock
holder vmim nn American cltl7.cn
A member of Albert Ilerkowitz 4
Sons, of 44 West Twenty-eighth street,
Continued en Third 1'agt.
DVINA DRIVE HALTS.
Correspondent Insist. German Line
1. Impenetrable,
ON TIIR DVINA FHONT, SotTHEAST or
Bioa, Thursday, July 20 (via Berlin,
July 23, nnd Imdon. July 24). -The
strong llusslnn offensive which began
July 15 nlong tho sector between Plnke.
nen and a point Just southeastward of
the eastern end of tho island of Dnlen
In the Dvinn Hlver has come, at least
temporarily, to nn end. Tho correspond,
cut of tho Associated Press Ins Just re.
turned from a vilt to tho foremost
trenches near the eastern end of tho seas
tor which has withstood the llusslnn nt
tuck,
The attack In this sector was carrlsa
out, ii h was also an ntt i'-k finther east
ward tonid Uull, bv tlvo divisions.
It appears the attack was designed ehleff
ly as a diversion In enmieetlnn with tho
heavv offensive on both Mdes of tho main
road'runnlng from Kekkau southward to
Bausk.
German olllceis sunlit suggestions that
th" whuh offensvo was merely a tellef
movement. dcs Kiicl to cuiinteract the
pressure on the ItnssUn linen further
smith They so that tho niititro of the
offensive showed tli.it o-.l a doubt It
as . serlniH rtlul t Pral 'h Grmnt
lines at this point
Along .1 llll" live li le- '"US. where
the fighting was iioimo -tn' Hussions,
after fiftv hours i ' dnirn'Oe picp.iratlon,
launched an nfienMn wit) tlm Third.
Twelfth, Thirteen and Sixteenth division
ri
ZiaBBSSB
