" r
1
WtytT
'-?
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenma
PHUiABiajPHIA, TUESDAY, JTOY 26, 1910.
VOL. It. NO. 200
CoriiianT, 101S, r xni Posuo Ltsan Counter.
PBIOIB ONE OBBTT
I
16
n
39
SLAVS 3 MILES
FROM HUNGARY;
RIP DVINA LINE
Cossack Raiders Actually
Dash Into Transylvania
on Scouting Tour
LINSINGEN'S LOSS HEAVY
Germans "See d Long
Period of War Ahead
0 ROTTERDAM, July 25.
rpHE Frankfurter Zeitung, In a ro--k'vleto
of tho two years of the war,
says:
"As hitherto, Germany will opposo
tho plans to destroy its national
existence with tho heroism of its
fighters and the determination of its
whole population.
"It is necessary to realize that, ac
cording to all human reckoning,
there still lies before us a consider
able period of exertion in fighting
and in sacrifice before the enemy
gives up his mad undertaking.
"Gcrmnny i3 a besieged fortress..
Therefore, everything depends upon
tho besiegors as to when an end will
be mado of tho bloody work.
"That tho fortress will "never haul
down the flag we know well, but our
enemies do not know it."
Tho Czar's main army in tho Ga-
I Hcin-Bakowina sector is now only
, three, miles fromitho plains of Hungary,
according to Pctrograd dispatches.
This indicates remarkable progress in
the Carpathian campaign in the .umth,
supplementing tho heavy Mu.ovito
blows at the German front along tho
Baltic, in tho north.
Russian troops havo torn open tho
German front for a distance of SO
miles in tho Riga sector for gains of
.12 miles, according to unofficial dis
patches. This advance was mado during four
days of severe fighting from the Gulf
of .Riga to Uxkull, which slackened
Sunday. Tho seriousness 'of the situ
ation for tho forces of Field Marshal
von Hindenburg is emphasized by tho
official announcement in Berlin that
tho Kaiscr'and his General Staff have
left tho western front for tho head
quarters in tho cast.
On tho eastern front, Russian attacks
south of Riga nnd along tho Dvina wcro
repulsed, but tho Russians succeeded in
penetrating German positions on tho
Stonowaka front nnd south of Bcr
estchko, it is admitted in today's Ber
lin report. In those regions General
von Linsingen's forces lost somo of
thoir first-lino trenches. .
PETROGRAD. July 25.
The main Russian forces fighting In the
southern Carpathians aro now only three
, miles from the Hungarian frontier, It Is
reported In Petrograd through the special
correspondence at the front.
There Is not a single sign of a lessening
In the pressure which tho armies of General
Kuropatkln, General Kaledlne, General Sak-'
haroff. General Brusslloff and General
Letchltsky are exerting against tho whole
Austro-German front from the Baltic to the
southern ranges of the Carpathian?.
It now develops that Russian Cossacks
actually penetrated tho Hungarian plain In
Transylvania, for a dtstanca of about 30
miles, creating wild panic among the Hun
'garlans, but subsequently withdrew. The
enterprise was In the nature of a raid and
was not carried out by large forces.
KAISER SPEEDS TO EASTERN
FRONT AS SLAVS HAMMER
GERMANS ALONG BALTIC
X LONDON. July 25".
German anxiety over the situation on the
eastern front Is reflected In the trip of Em
peror William and General von Falkenhayn,
chief of the General Staff, from France to
the Russian line. v
German resistance In Poland and Vol
hynla is weakening, according to advices
received today from various 'sources. This
Information Is borne out by reports from
Petrograd that the Russians, after four da
of terrlfia fighting, have thrust back the
German troops of FleldNMarBha von Hin
denburg for 12 miles south of Riga and
along the Dvtna River, north of Dvlnsk.
TWO AUTO DRIVERS HELD
Grand Jury to Review Cases of Men
Whoso Cora Killed
Peter Carroll, of 2119 Panama'' street,
chauffeur fo an lea cream truck, which
caused the death of Francis J. Callahan, 25
years old, of 145 South 21th street, on
July 14, was committed to await tho action
of tha Grand Jury by Coroner Knight today.
The Coroner also commltteed "William Pot
ter, 25 years old, of 2S13 East Rush street,
whose machine .struck aiu caused the death
of James Gllmore, 5 years old, of, 3129
Orlanna street, on the ,&ame date;
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
settled this afternoon and tonight with
probably showers; Wednesday gener
ally cloudy; coritinued moderaiy
warm; gentle, southerly winds,
. XEKQTII OF DAY.
fun rl.... 4J2a.ni Moon rlMa... 12.40 a m.
ua icu 72.! pm Moon south. 8.53 a.m.
DELMVABK BITCH TIDE CIIANOES.
CHEStTNUT 8TKEET.
Low watr . 4:51 a m. I-ow water . 8 04 p.m.
ilith waUr 10.04 a m Itlsb. water 10 J p.m.
TKUPERATimK Af KAfll linilR '
tl 1UI 111 U II 31 rf 4
731 7SI 751 741 751 78 i 75 T
LOST AND FOUND
SY1WLASSES Lt jwlr of urcffluua Cbt-
nui it, cerry jdonaaj mornu).. reward. -883
YMitt Central
Otiar Lett aa4 Ifvusa Aa a a"ui U
mi Wtpfifr Ma
fWm Ml i , i t&
Buss 121
GENERAL PAYOLLE
Commander of tho French army of
tho Sommo, now co-operating with
tho British in tho drivo on tho
western front.
METHODIST BISHOP
. LOST IN MOUNTAINS;
WAS AWAY FISHING
Rev. William Perry Eveland,
Missionary Head, Disap
pears Near Mt. Holly
Springs, Pa.
HAD NOSE OPERATION
CARLISLE, Pa., July 2S. The Rev.
William Perry Eveland, aged 52, missionary
Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church
for tho Phlllpplno Islands, spending his
vacation at Mount Holly Springs, Is missing
and a hundred men In'Jne midst of n driving
rain are searching the mountains nnd drag
ging the streams In the vicinity In an at
tempt to And htm or his body.
Bishop Eveland left his home at 5 o'clock
las't'ove'nlng on a fishing ozcurson, promis
ing to return In an hour. Ho was last seen
at 6 o'clock whipping the banks of the
stream. Alarmed when he did not return,
relatives began a search which continued
until midnight when the citizens of the town
were Informed and searching parties of
moro than 100 rflen turned out to aid In the
search. A heavy rain which raised the
streams held up the search.
He recently underwent an operation for
nasal trouble. It Is feared that the recently
healed wound may ha 6 begun bleeding and
that ho wasbiercome by weakness In somo
part of the mountainous section., The
placo Is the site of old ore banks and he
may have wandered Into one of these. He
Is a graduate of Dickinson College, a nathe
of Harrlsburg, and hna been Bishop for
four years, prior to that time preaching in
various parts of Pennsylvania. He was a
former president of Dickinson Seminary at
'Wlllla'msport, and a trustee of Tome
Institute, Port Deposit, Md.
.Send Aid to Men Under Lake
PITTSBUItaH, Pa,, July 26. The local
station of thet Government Bureau of Mines
has detailed a rescue car with equipment
and four expert engineers to aid relief work
In the Cleveland tunnel horror. The car
left here at 8:16 a. m. over the Pittsburgh
and Lake Erie Railroad. ,
23 KILLED IN EXPLOSION
BENEATH LAKE ERIE
Seven of" Rescue Party Perish in
Effort to Reach Men
in Tunnel
CLEVELAND, July 25, Twenty-three,
men are known to be dead and several In
jured as a result of an explosion of gas In a
water works tunnel under construction be
tween a pumping station on land and an In
take crib five miles out In Lake Erie late
last night.
The men were working 50 feet below the
bottom of the lake, and 120 feet below the
street level.
The'exploalon came as the tunnel work
ers broke, through a gas vein with their
picks and shgvela and 'the fumes Ignited
from electric sparks.
Although suspicious odors had been
noticed forseveral days and work had been
halted the men were permitted to enter
the tube without helmets or other means of
safety.
At 8 o'clock 11 men descended the shaft
An hour later the explosion occurred and
workrnen on the surface, detecting gas
fumes, attempted to signal the men in the
tube. ReceUIng no response, they sent
rocket signals into the air to attract life
fver on shorej
If was almost midnight when a rescue
party made the descent. Of this party of
11, seven succumbed to the fumes.
After the first rescue party had met the
same fate as the original workmen in the
crib, no more men would volunteer a aid
In the rescue work until helmets could be
procured. There was considerable delay In
getting helmets (tad not until after daylight
today was the rescue work taken up by men
properly equipped to withstand the deadly
-vapor
Ten bodies were brought to shore on a
tugboat at 10 a. m. Nine more are known
to be la the tube and the rescuers are dig
ging tbel way through the debria to brlns
out the other bodies.
ALLIED ARMIES SCORE NEW
GAINS ALONG SOMME FRONT;
. LONDON HEARS GUNS' ROAR
Anglo-French Troops Make New Ad
vances in Terrific Fighting Haig's
Forces Attack Along Line Five
Miles Long
Fayolle's Men Seize Positions Near Estrees German As
saults in Peronne Sector, on Meuse and in Alsace
Beaten Back Number of Teuton Pris
oners Now 26,223
Further advances by tho Anglo-French troops on the Sommo front nro re
ported from both London and Paris today. Military critics in both capitals nro
highly elated at the continued successes of the Allies and look upon tho situation
ns being favorable in the highest degree.
Tho greater part of Pozicres i3 now in tho hands of the British, General
Haig, the British commander, wired the London War Office today. Pozicres is
,a position of great strategic importance,
and its control by cither side is regarded ns of utmost significance.
Tho British attacked today along n five-mile front. Fighting wa3 par
ticularly acvero in Delvllle nnd High Woods and at Pozicres. Tho artillery fire
on both sides is continuing uninterruptedly. 'So Bcvoro is tho cannonade that
its reverberations wcro heard in London nnd Paris this morning.
French troops have carried "strongly fortified blockhouse" south of Estrees
nnd trenches nearby. Counter-attacks by the Germans nt other points wero re
pulsed, tho French War Office reported. Teuton attacks at Verdun and in
Alsace also failed. ,
Since tho beginning of tho Sommo drive tho Allic3 have taken 20,223 Ger
mans, 140 guns, about -10 trench mortars and several hundred machlno guns.
TERRIFIC HAND-ffO-HAND
FIGHTING MARKS BATTLE -s
. FOR BAPAUME HIGHWAY
LONDON1, July 25.
"The greater part of Pozlerea Is now
ours," roported General Halg In an official
statement today.
Tho British commander-in-chief declared
that nowhoro had the Teutons reached the
tiritlsh tronches.
The British thrust of today was a hurling
forward In an Inferno of flame, steel and.
shot along a flvo-mllo front from Thlepval
to Longueval. At only thre points In thhs
stretch waB thoro contact of 'man at Del
vllle and High Woods and Pozicres. The
last named village, which Is divided by
tho main highway from Albert to Bapaume
Itself, housed British and Germans. Eter
jlnce' Sunday morning tho two forces have
grappled, hand to hand In desperate combat.
Tho wldo street which stretches out Into
the town's Buburba to join the Bapaume
highway was no man's land. It was swept
by a rain of machine-gun bullets from both
sides. Now and then the deluge stopped
momentarily ay forces from one side or the
other charged. Then It was bayonet to
bayonet.
Not less desperate were the struggles for
supremacy in the two Bparso forests at
Delvllle and High "Woods. The forests
themselves were gone. Of the lenfy foliage
nothing remained. Shot and shell and
hand grenades had stripped trees Into gaunt
(Ire-blackened poles or laid them low In the
ground In great confusion. Behind these
barriers of'logs tho Germans and British
fought fiercely.
.iere was no diminution In the artillery
Are which General Halg has been pouring
ceaselesly Into the German lines slnco Fri
day. On the other hand the Germans
pounded away with explosive shells, gas
shells, shrapnel and machine-gun Are.
So terrtflo have been the artillery duels
on the Somme front In France that the
sound of the cannonade was'heard In towns
on the south coast of England, nearly 160
miles away, and were even audible In Lon
don when tho wind carried out of tho south
east. The reverberations were plainly heard
Continued on Pot Two, Column Six
TWO HURT, 3 OVERCOME
FIGHTING BOAT FIRE
Thirty-Foot Vessel on Schuylkill
Scene of Thrilling Battle
With Gasoline Flames
Two men were painfully burned and three
overcome by fumes of burning gasoline and
oil In fighting a Are on the Budd T., a 30
foot cabin motorboat In the Schuylkill
IMver, near the publla boathouse, late
last night. The Budd T, was nestled
among other similar craft, and the flames
threatened to attack many boats nearby
and were extinguished after a fight of more
than half an hour, while hundreds on shore
watched the battle through dense volumes
of blaclf smoke.
Those Injured were Albert Thompson,
1424 North Park avenue, owner of the
boat; Frederick Stinger, Ridge avenue and
Jefferson street, his companion. They were
burned about the face, arms and hands,
and collapsed while fighting the flames.
Charles Morel!, commodore of the Adel
pbla Yacht Club, who came to the rescue,
also was overcome. All were revived on.
shore by friends. )
The fire occurred while Thompson and
Stinger were attempting to repair a leak
in the gasoline pipe.
A lighted lantern had been placed on the
deck so the men could see to work and It
overturned when the boat was rocked by a
passing speed boat The gasoline ignited
instantly, and in a few seconds the craft
was hidden by fumes of burning gasoline
and olL Both Thompson and Stinger at
tempted to extinguish the names, but were
forced to jump int tb- "s& at the rear,
where they collapsed, ,
barring tho Albcrt-Bapaumo highway,
FOUR NEGRO SOLDIERS
SHOT IN TEXAS AFTER
ASSAULT ON LAWYER
P.rovost Guard at San Antonio
Forced to Fire on Troopers
to Halt Attack on
White Man
COURT-MARTIAL ORDERED
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 25. Three
i negro soldiers of Company E. Eighth Il
linois Infantry, wero In the hospital today
as tho result of bullet wounds received
when they wore fired upon by the provost
guard last night after attacking II. O.
Henne, a lawyer, of New Braumels, Tex.
A fourth was taken to his tent:
The wounded are:
WILLIAM BLUE, not in the groin.
EDWARD LOUTI1I9RNE, flesh' wound in
the right thigh.
SIDNEY WILLIA.NS. left leg broken below
the knee.
Unidentified trooper, removed to the regi
mental camp.
All are prlvater.
The wounds are comparatively slight
owing to the guard having usei. "guard"
ammunition, a light charge with a max
imum range of about 300 yards.
The troubto started when Henne was
driving his automobile past a group of the
negro guardsmen. Henne says a stone was
thrown, striking the back of the car. He
Btopped nnd went back to ascertain who
threw the stone. He said he was met by
threats and Invectives. He ran toward a
nearby, saloon, followed by 40 guardsmen.
He Belied a tobacco cutter and knocked
down the first Mgro through the door, he
says. A second he kicked In the groin. At
this Juncture the provost guard, composed
of 19 United States Infantrymen, arrived.
With clubbed guns they forced the negroes
Into tho street Upon their failure to obey
repeated orders to return to their quarters
they were fired on by the guard. Four of
them fell and the remainder retreated.
General Funston ordered trial by court
martial of all the soldiers (who were en
gaged in the riot '
VILA'S ARMY CRUSHED AGAIN,
SO SAYS CARRANZA REPORT
Bandit Had Seven Carloads of Pro
visions, Says Statement
MEXICO CITY, July 25,-rOfflcfal reports
Issued by the War Department announce
that a crushing defeat has' been admin
istered to the Villa army at San isldora
ranch, southwest of Parral. fOovernme,nt
troops. It is said, also routedjnnother ban
dit force near Alojo ranch, killing General
Contreras, VUla'a leading commander.
According to the official advices, the VII
llstas defeated at San Isldora lost seven
carloads of provisions and the greater part
of their ammunition.
REPUBLICANS PLAN ATTACK
ON WILSON'S MEXICAN POLICY
Senators Will Assail Dispatch of Guard
to Border
WASHINGTON, July 25. A new offen
sive movement la to be launched by the
Republicans In the Senate against the Ad
ministration's Mexican policy.
Aa a result of letters to Senators from
all parts of the country, resolutions are In
preparation demanding the withdrawal of
the National Guard from the border and
to prevent the further movement of troops
southward.
Senator Fall of New Mexico, who has
furnished the Republicans with, ammunition
for their assaults on the President's course
In Mexico, returned yesterday from a
month's visit along the border He brought
Information of bis observations there to
Cealhitwd a Pate Vcr. Celuea Twa
QUICK
'
NEW YORK BROKER KILLED IN AUTO CRASH
MIDDLETOWl, N. Y., July 25. Charles N, Slease, ft New Yoik
curb broker, was Instantly killed early today when an automobile In
which ho was riding crashed Into a guard rati at the side of the' State
highway near Goshen, N. Y. Sleasc, who resided in Hnabrouck
Selghts, N. J. was accompanied by three other men of the 3ame town,
but they escaped Injury. t
1 i 1 t
:'TJ.J.V' "
i
PHILLIES-PITTSBURGH GAME CALLED OFF
Tho flr3t (wmo of tho Phillies-Pittsburgh series, schedulod for this afternoon
at tho National League Park, was called oft at noon today by Manager Pat Moran.
Tho heavy rain whlchj began fallntr early today made It evident that thero would
bo no contest A double-header will bo played tomorrow.
HUGHES MAKES READY FOR ACCEPTANCE SPEECH
BIUDQEHAMPTON, N. Y July 25. Charlos Evans Hughos is maklrg a
driving- finish on his speech of acceptance Monday night Ho will start on his
western swing on August 5 and will open his campaign in Dotrolt on tho night of
August 7.
BANNER INTERNAL REVENUE YEAR IN PHILADELPHIA
A letter praising tho work accomplished In tho last year by Internal Rovenue
Collector Ledoror and his assistants In tho 1st District of Pennsylvania was re
ceived today from W. H. Osborn, Commissioner of Internal Revenue "Internal
revenuo collections for tho last fiscal year amounted to moro than 512,000,000," said
Commissioner Osborn, "and tho cost of collection approximated $14.05 on tho thou
sand dollars. This represonts tho banner year in the internal rovenue service."
CASEMENT EXECUTION SET FOR AUGUST 3
LONDON, July 25. Roger Casement's execution has been flxod for August 3,
tho Dally Mall said today. Unless granted a royal reprlove, Casement will bo hanged
In tho yard of Penlonvllle Prison. Hopo for tho saving of Casement's llfo by Judicial
means was virtually abandoned when his appeal from his conviction on tho chargo
of high treason was rejected on July 18.
38 MORE PARALYSIS DEATHS IN NEW YORK
NEW YOnK, July 25. Infantilo paralysis showed another sharp increase today.
Tho record was 38 deaths and 150 now cases, as compared with 31 deaths and 89
cases yesterday. Tho plaguo has now stricken a total of 30D8 persons in the present
epidemic. Of these, cases 074 have proved fatal.
" ALASKAN SALES TO U. S. PASS 50,000,000 MARK
WASHINGTON, July 25. Alaskan sales to tho United States In the last fiscal
year aggregated Jfj,000,000, double tho annual averago since 1912.- The chief
feature of tho yeai' according to analysis by the Bureau of Foreign and Domestla
Commerce-, was the rise of copper to first place among Alaska's exports, supplanting
salmon and gold.
GUNNERS ON BATTLESHIP TEXAS BEST IN U. S. NAVY
WASHINGTON, July 26. The battleship Texas led tho navy In gunnery merit
for tho year 1915-16. Figures Just made public by the Navy Department give the
Texas a mark of 93.7. The battleship Arkansas, with a mark of 33.927, came lost
among tho 16 ships enumerated. Tho figures represent the general result of all
tho gunnery work for the year on each ship, Including torpedo practice.
FERNALB HAS SLIGHT LEAD IN MAINE PRIMARY
PORTLAND, Mo., July 25. Partial returns early today In the special senatorial
primary in Malno to nominate candidates for United States Senator o succeed the
into Senator Edwin C. Burleigh Indicate the nomination on tho Republican ticket of
former Governor Bert M. Fernald by a small margin over Representative Frunk E.
Guernsey, of tho 4th District- The vote Is very light and closo and complete returns
may alter the result '
ALLEGED GERMANS SEIZED ON AMERICAN SHIP
PORT TOWNSEND, Wash., July 25. Captain Fred Wann, of tho American
schooner W. H. Marston, has reported that he was compelled to give up to the
British authorities at Newcastle, Australia, three sailors, alleged to be German
subjects, who were registered when the ship sailed from Portland, Ore., January 23
Ja3t, aa citizens of Norway, Sweden and Holland, j
1519 OFFICERS LOST BY BRITISH ARMY IN JUNE
LONDON, July 26. Casualty lists Issued by the War Office show that -during
Juno the British army lost 423 officers killed. 1032 wounded and 64 missing, a total of
1519, These flgur.es brjng .asgrpgate.Jlosses Jo date to 29,424, of which number
8997 have been killed or died, 18,'466'wounded and 1971 missing.
400 LIFE INSURANCE AGENTS GO OUT ON STRIKE HERE
More than 400 life Insurance agents In Philadelphia are on strike today. They
aro agents of-the Prudential Life Insurance Company who have been notified that
they would be dismissed at the end of the week! At a mass-meeting held last night
the men decided 'hot to report for wbfk'todayV -It wtis said that tha number on strike
might be Increased by 300 within the next, 24 hours.
AERIAL ROUTE MAY CONNECT
An aerial route may connect Philadelphia
p. S. Jaaulth. avUior, will ny from the
to Atlantic City tomorrow, carrying a message from Mayor Smith and possfiJi
Dassenger. He was the first aviator to fly from Atlantic City to' New, York?
aviation circles Jt is believed there Is a possibility, of an aerial route between Phila
delphla and the shore. ..
JERSEY FIGHTS ALLEGED RAILROAD DISCRIMINATION
i
New Jersey has petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission to 'fre her
industries from alleged railroad discrimination In favor of New York. Tha conten
tion, which la being made In behalf of Jersey City, Newark and other northern New
Jersey points, Is that the 'railroads are wasting their Income In handling traffic la
ways that put unnecessary costs upon them andin a manner favorable to New York.
BONUS TO ROEBLING THOUSANDS FOR PUNCTUALITY
TRENTON, July 25. The John A. Roebllng Sons Company has posted a notice
that a 5 per cent weekly bonus will be paid to the men for punctuality. Every em
ploye not late at wprk will receive the bonus. Several thousand men are Included.
i i
20,000,000 POUNDS OF FOOD STORED IN NEW JERSEY
TRENTON, July 2. More than 20,000,000 pounds of food products, not Including
upward of 18,000,000 dozen eggs and a liberal supply of fruits and vegetables, were
packed away In the cold storage warehouses In New Jersey an Jtjly 1 last, according
to statistics completed by the State Department of Health. The meat In storage
Is placed at 5.996,721 pounds, or slightly less than the amount stored a year ago-
AGREEMENT SETTLES STRIKE OF GARMENT MAKERS
NEW YORK, July 25. The manufacturers and garment workers reached an
agreement Just before midnight last night after a long conference In the Metropolitan
Tower. The agreement will be presented to tho general strike committee, where
there la virtually no doubt of 1U acceptance, and by the members of the com
mittee will be presented to their V Jrious groups for raUflcatloa. Both sides made
Important concessions in the contract
NEWS
'
4 V
PHILADELPHIA AND SH
and Atlantic City. Weather pepnl
Philadelphia Aviation School at Ess
I' J
I I
5"!
jni
THREE INDICTED
BY GRAND JURY
IN VICE INQUIRY
Owners of Houses Accused.
Social Workers Sum
moned to Testify 5
WHITEWASHING" BARRED
"Wo'll See This Through, No
Matter Who Is Implicated,"
Says Juror
Three true bills against owners of houses
which wero raided July 15 were found by
tho Grand Jury this afternoon at the be
ginning of Its investigation Into the Vice
situation and subpoenas were Issued for
probation officers and social settlement '
workers.
Tho attitude of the Jurors Indicates that
they will not stand for any attempt at .
"whitewashing." Several of them said they
wero determined to fix the responsibility
of persons who havo neglected their duty
in enforcing tho law.
One Juror, who Is in touch with condi
tions, said that all concerned would see the
cases through to tho finish no matter who
was Implicated.
ANXIOUS TO FIX BLAME.
"There will bo no whitewashing ns far
as I am 'concerned," he Said. "I am deter
mined to go through with tho Investigation
and fix tho responsibility on the persons who
have neglected their duty in enforcing the
law." -
The same views wero shared by another
grand Juror. When asked whethor or not
tho names of any politicians or men pf
prominence had been presented before the
Jury, ho said:
"Wo havo a lot of work beforo us. Wo
have received a lot of Important informa
tion. Tho program has been mapped out
and we will seo this thing through to tho end
no mnttor who may be Implicated."
Social settlement workers and probation
officers will testify before tbo Grand Jury.
Subpoenas wero Issued today for several
of tho most prominent of tho social workers;
MISS GILLETTE CALLED.
Miss Mary Gillette, former court aid, who
ia now connected with tho Travolers' Aid
Society, will be one of the first to appear
boforo the Jury and tell what she knows of
the vice situation.
Her appearance will be partly tho result
of three communications of complaint she
recently sent to the Mayor. Among other
social Workers who will be called are Mrs.
Jane Bryant, Mrs. Jane D. Hippcn and Miss
Bertha Freeman.
District Attorney Rotan sold these social
workers would be Interviewed by the Jury
In order that an idea of general vice con
ditions in thjj. city may be obtained before
particular cases are taken up.
The police who conducted the raid la
tho Tenderloin which brought about tho In
vestigation will be the last to testify be
fcro the Jury.
John Brounley, d the Law and Order So
ciety, was called beforo the Grand Jury to
day and questioned concerning the arrests
in tho Tenderloin.
Tho Grand Jury-, Investigation started
promptly with the return today of District
Attorney Botan. He said he would gladly
co-operate with the Jury in Its investigation
and summon any one the Jurymen desired
to throw light on the situation.
Director Wilson Is following the pace set
by Mayor Smith who Issued a warning yes
terday for all vtco promoters and gamblers
to got out of town.
WILSON DEFENDS GIBBONET
Asked If It were true that the Penrose
McNIchol faction first engaged D. Clarence
Gibboney, of the Law ond Order Society,
to Investigate the Tenderloin and that Gib
boney was subsequently "commandeered"
by the admlnlvilon to raid the Tender
loin, the Director said: "There Is not a word
of truth in this rumor which has been
circulated freely. Mayor Smith and my
self were the ones who decided to' clean
up the place regardless of any political
motives, as I have Said before."
Regarding the charge that powerful
politicians lrterfered with the work of
the suspended police officials the Director
said, "It Is up to the accused men to tell
the facts If any one Is Interested with
them,
"I want the accused officials to make a
tight for their positions and tell all they
Vnnur Thev ha.v amrjla onrjortunltv to tell
xact conditions. Personally, I do not be-
ttieve mat-any paiuicai uiuucuco jtauui-
capned the police- No barriers will be
thrown in their way to keep the facts
back."
Asked his opinion of the charges which
were made by officials to the effect that
Captain Kenny and other policemen col
lected money In the Tenderloin, the Di
rector said he had not heard about them.
Complaints are being made by persons
near 21st street and Columbia avenue that
t
Continued a l'Me Twa, Column Four
LUNATIC SAVES QIRL BATHER
FROM DEATH IK TRENTON PARK
Lynn, Mass., Young Woman Qoes Be.
yond Her Depth,
TRENTON, N. J.. July -J 5. Mlsa Leila
Thomas, of Lypn. Mass., Is recovering today
from shock as the result of a narrow eacapa
from drowning at the TLog. Basjn 1 the
new cl?y park yesterday afternoon, Miss
Thomas, went with friends, whom phe Is
visiting here, to the Log Basin for a. swim.
Shefound herself beyond her depth nd
commenced struggling, crying for nel.
John Bebfceoer, a lu&tio iroiu the. Stat
Hospital nearby, walking with a gutrti,
saw the girl's peril. Without IwslUtlon, fc
Jumped into th water wsttloly caught t&
girl and bravgfct hr t: stoM. mm a g
an shMe4 egnarttgr. ,., -afe. ,
