if iH
I r Way's Metal Prices , ffi L . V & I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION
l rvTmoNi II IIP II in i IP II iHTl llri I II TEN PAGES
I j New York, July 25,-Sllver, 63 U V JUI fo SW "T VT 4 '""w 1 Ijl
S-8c; lead, $6.40; spc!tcr,-$9.5010 00- r Xm. W in North Portion; Local Thunder ' JH
v copper, S24.0026.00. LJ X "" Showers In South Tonight or Wednes- 1 'H
r day; Not Much Change In Tempera- '
I . FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. . ' ture' ' - J 1 !
I i : Fifty-sixth Ycar-N0. 177. Prlco Flv0 Cent, OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, JULY 25, 1916. 2 entered a8 second c.aaa Matter at h. Pcoffice,": ' !
j Russians Penetrate German Lines I
Grand Duke Advances on Turks I
BRITISH HOLDING AGAINST
DESPERATE COUNTER-ATTACKS
l Greater Part of Fortified Town of Pozieres in British Posses
11 sion Ground to North Gained in Spite of Fierce German
II Opposition French Make Gains North and South
. of Sayecourt Violent Bombarding Northeast
He jj of Verdun Italians Capture Monte
Hi ; Cimonte From Austrians.
HI Petrograd, July 25, via London, 4:05 p. m. Some Rus-
Ir sian detachments already have reached positions about ten
; miles from the Turkish fortified town of Erzingan in Armenia,
I II savs me Russian official statement given out here today.
If "Caucasus front: The Turks are retreating in disorder
: before the irresistible pressure of our troops. Some of our gal-
: lant advance guard are only 1 5 versts (about 1 0 miles) from
r the town of Erzingan, in central Armenia. According to the
llr reports of our aviators, the Turks are hurriedly piling together
' all kinds of provisions."
Rome, via London, July 25, 3:45 p. m. Italian troops
. have captured Monte Cimone from the Austrians, says the of-
III ficial Italian statement issued today.
I The British are holding all the
ground along the Somme front In nor
thern France against desperate coun
- ter attacks by the Germans, according
to today's official statement. The
greater part of the fortified town of
Pozieres, which stands on high ground
, and is a further advance toward Ba
paume, Is in British possession. North
of the town, despite the striking op
position by the Germans additional
ground, has been gained.
South of the Somme the French
have made progress both to the north
and south of Soyecourt.
At Verdun there are Indications of an
operation of importance northeast of
the citadel, a violent bombardment
being reported.
On the Ilalian-Austro front Rome
' announces the capture from the Aus-
trians of Monte Cimonte.
The Berlin official statement admits
the Russian troops have penetrated
German first line positions defended
1 by General von Linslgnen's troops.
Berlin declares a combined Brit
ish and French attack north of the
Somme broke down.
French Troops Gaining.
Paris, July 25. 12 noon. On the
south bank of the river Somme yes
I terday evening French troops cap
f o tured a block of houses south of
Eetrees and drove the Germans out
of trenches north of Vermandovillers,
says the French official statement
Issued this afternoon,
i Between the Oise and the Aisne sev
eral German patrols were dispersed
nar Tracy le Val.
On the left bank of the Mouse, in
the Verdun region, there was grenade
fighting at Hill 304.
Violent Cannonading Progressing.
On the right bank of the Meuse
; a violent cannonading was in progress
at Fieury and La Laufee.
A German attack on the French
) positions at Baschwiller in Alsace is
claimed to have failed.
Sub-Lieutenant Nngesser of the
French aviation corps brought down
; his tenth aeroplane.
British Gain Ground.
? London, July 25, 3:05 p. in. British
; troops have captured the greater part
of the village ot Pozieres, says the
1 British official statement issued this
ft afternoon. The Germans brought up
i reinforcements of infantry and guns
j but the counter attacks everywhere,
'i the statement adds, were repulsed by
the British.
The British statement says:
I "In the last few days the enemy
"f brought further reinforcements of in-
H $ Throughout yesterday the hostile bom-
jH 'i bardment was 'fairly continuous and at
jH times became very heavy.
"An attempt to attack our right
j flank yesterday afternoon was frus-
J trated by our artillery-
j "Last night two fresh German in-
fantry attacks preceded by a special-
H ly violent artillery fire, were launeh-
M j e,l against the center of our line.
3H These attacks also were stopped by
I the concentrated fire of our guns.
ljjH "At no placo did the enemy succeed
ttH I in reaching the British trenches and
dI his casualties In these enterprises
'9 , have been severe.
o3B "At other parts in tho line there
; has been a good deal of hand to hand
inWI ;; fighting and our infantry worked their
tijjH ', way forward In places.
"North of Pozieres, the biggest part
he village is In our possession, de-
; spite stubborn resistance offered by
; tho enemy nnd wo continue to make
enflH ' Progress, We captured some machine
uHi suns and numerous prisoners includ-
WK? ,n two battalion commanders."
itMl Russians Penetrate German Front.
Berlin, July 25, via London, 4:15 p.
'bwl: m- Russian troops, succeeded in pene-
ffiaBll bating the German front on a smal
'aBB'. -.'. w
part of the front defended by the
troops under command of General von
Linslngen, according to the official
statement issued by the German army
headquarters staff.
The statement in regard to the east
ern front says:
"Attacks by weak Russian detach
ments southeast of Riga and by Rus
sian patrols on the Bvina were re
pulsed. "Army group of General Linsingen:
Enemy attacks on the sector south of
Stonowuka and on the front south of
Berestechk succeeded over a small
front in penetrating our first line de
fense. "West of Burkanow, a Russian aero
plane was shot down in an aerial
flight."
Allied Attacks Fail.
Berlin, July 25, via London, 4:25 p.
m. An English and French combined
attack made yesterday north of the
river Somme in France, says the offi
cial statement issued today by the
German headquarters, broke down.
The text of the German statement
regarding operations on the western
front says:
"North of the Somme after the un
successful British attack of July 22
the British and French forces yester
day made a resolute and combined at
tack on the Pozieres Maures front.
It again broke down either through
our fire or In some places after Bharp
hand to band fighting.
"East of Pozieres at Fourcaux near
Longueval and near Gulllemont the
Brandenburg grenadiers and the gal
lant 64th Saxon regiment again dis
tinguished themselves.
"Simultaneously the French threw
strong forces forward in a storming
attack south of the Somme in the
Estres Soyecourt sector which, how
ever, only temporarily gained ground
south of Estrees. Otherwise the at
tempt was dispersed with the most
severe and sanguinary loss to the
enemy."
Berlin, July 25, via London, 4:42
p. m. In the Meuse region there were
intense artillery duels from time to
time. On the left bank of the river
unimportant hand grenade engage
ments developed.
"On the right bank Tepeated enemy
attempts to recapture positions -on the
Froldo Terro ridge were repulsed.
"North of Balschwller, in Alsace,
our patrols brought back thirty pris
oners from a French position.
"Lieutenant Balldemus shot down
a French biplane south of BInarvIlle
thereby putting his fourth enemy bi
plane out of action."
oo
KAISER BITTER
TOWARDENGLISH
Tells Soldiers It Is Special
Privilege to Fight Against
Nation 3worn to Destroy
- r Germany.
London, July 25, 1:50 p. m. A dis
patch from Berne by way of Pontar
ller, France, given out today by the
Wireless Press, says:
"Another speech by Emperor Wil
liam during his recent visit to the
Somme front Is being discussed In
Berlin. The emperor said:
" 'It Is your especial privilege to
fight against the English, which
means that you are fighting against
a nation that has sworn to destroy
1 Germany. The English built up dur-
Ing the years before the war the com
bination of countries which at a given
signal fell upon us, attacked us, the
most peaceful and peace desiring peo
ple in the world. The English led us
to believe they were our friends when
they were actually plotting our de
struction. " 'English diplomacy brought about
the war and now an English offensive
Is intended to carry the operations to
our soil, into our towns and villages.
Your duty is to break the English of
fensive; to pi'ove once more that Ger
many Is Invincible and reduce to de
spair the relentless enemies of our
country so that they will sue for
peace on terms honorable and profit
able to Germany.' "
oo
DEUTSCHLAND STILL
DELAYS SAILING
Baltimore, Md., July 25. "Circum
stances, conditions over which we
have no control are keeping us in Bal
timore. There is no cause for alarm
from any source. At the proper time
we will get away; there is a time for
everything."
Thus did Captain Paul Koenig, com
mander of the German merchant sub
marine Deutschland, explain his pres
ence in Baltimore today when asked
what is delaying his sailing.
PROCLAMATION
TO THE GERMANS
Impartial Statement of Causes
of War and Why Allies Are
Bound to Win.
GERMANY ENEMIES
Brutal Methods Alienate Neu
trals Allied Countries
Fighting for Liberty
Against Tyranny.
Paris, July 25, 5:20 a. m. Second
Lieuteuant Anselm Marcbal, who re
cently flew over Berlin throwing out
proclamations as he passed, had, prior
to the war, been employed by German
firms and had made frequent trips be
tween Berlin and Cologne so that he
was well acquainted with the country
over which he flew. He was In Ger
many when the war broke out but
managed to get back to France. Some
of hiB relatives still are in Germany.
He is 33 years old.
He received the decoration of the
Legion of Honor December 21, for
prowess in the air and devotion to his
country.
The proclamation thrown on Berlin
Is described by French authorities as
consisting of an "Impartial statement
on the causes of the war and the prin
cipal reasons why the entente allies
are bound to win," and concluding
with these words:
"By the wholesale massacre of in
nocent women and children and by
her brutal methods of warfare, Ger
many has alienated tho sympathies of
neutrals and the number of her ene
mies grow daily.
"The allies are firmly resolved to
go on until the utmost limit. You
are fighting for your steel kings, your
squirearchy, your land grabbers. We
are fighting for the liberty of all
against the tyranny of military caste.
"We desire to punish the guilty.
We wish to make o repetition of the
present carnage impossible and that
object will be attained if in Germany
the people possess the right to decide
questions of war and peace for them
selves." oo
TEUTONS MAKE
STRONG. STANO
Approach of Russian Detach
ments Frustrated by Artil
lery in Volhynian Sector.
Berlin, July 25, by wireless to Say
vlile. Teutonic troops on the south
era VoITiynlan sector have made a
successful stand against Russian
attacks in the Berestchk sector, close
to the Gallcia border, says an official
statement Issued by the Vienna war
ofllco under date of July 23. In East
Gallcia the approach of Russian de
tachments -was frustrated by artillery,
says the statement.
On the Italian front all enemy at
tacks have been repulsed, according
to the statement, and Austrian air
squadrons (bombarded military estate
llshments at San Giorgio, Dinogara,
Goro and Monfalcone. '
t,
BOMB SQUAD
FACES PROBLEM
San Francisco Police Organi
zation in Most Difficult In
vestigation of History.
WORKING ON THEORIES
Only Tangible Evidence,
Pieces of Deadly Bomb
Casing and Metal
Missiles.
San Francisco, July 25. The police
began here a national criminal hunt
todaj' for two men who. It is suspect
ed, exploded a bomb which caused
the death of seven and injured more
than forty persons during the San
Francisco preparedness parade last
Saturday. The description of the men
who were carrying a suitcase toward
a place where tho suitcase bomb ex
ploded, were furnished by Samuel
Weeks, conductor of a street car on
which the men rode to the point of
the explosion and by John Clifton, pro
prietor of a cigar stand at a corner
where the men boarded Weeks' car.
The descriptions tally in every de
tail. San Francisco, July 25. Captain
I Duncan Mathewson, head of the
"bomb squad" organized by the police
to apprehend the man or men respon
sible for hhe preparedness parade ex
plosion, said today:
"We are facing one of the most dif
ficult investigations in police history."
The special squad has been divided
into' three' divisions 'and the search
Is being carried on continuously in
eight hour shifts. State and federal
officials are co-operating in the man
hunt, and eighty-five special police
men appeared before the police com
mission last night and took oath that
they would "not rest until the perpe
trator of the bomb outrage has been
brought to justice " Chief White said
this was the first time San Francisco
ever had called upon her special po
licemen in a case of this kind.
The coroner's jury,, which, It is an-.
nounced, will conduct a sweeping in
vestigation, will begin taking testi
mony later in the week.
Funerals of four of the six persons
killed by the explosion were to be
held today.
Working On Theories.
Captain Mathewson and his associ
ates based their hopes of success on
three theories.
First: That the maker of the bomb
was a member of an organized ring,
and will be betrayed by a fellow con
spirator seeking the $13,000 which has
been offered in rewards, or that, if he
worked single-handed, the supposed
fanatic will become emboldened and
betray himself.
Second: That with practically ev
ery citizen of San Francisco aiding the
police, some individual will find a de
finite clue.
Third: That the closing of the drag
net already set, will bring to light
either the guilty person, or associates
who will break down and inform on
their companion under the severe gril
ling which each suspected person will
be subjected to.
Small Tangible Evidence.
The only tangible evidence in the
hands of the police is the numerous
pieces of the bomb casing and its
metal missiles collected after the ex
plosion. Bit by bit, as these have
been brought to the police the recon
struction of the bomb has proceeded,
and today the shattered instrument of
death was to be taken for examination
to the experts of one of the larger
powdor manufacturer's across the bay.
Dozens of citizens hero visited po
lice headquarters and told their stor
ies of meetings with suspicious char
acters; their personal suspicions and
theories and the names of many per
sons in the city, who, by their actions,
or utterances have led" others to be
lieve that they might know something
of Saturday's outrage.
Reports Filed Away.
All these statements have been care
fully filed away.
Charles W. Fickert, district attor
ney, stated that San Francisco was
infested with a number of "rabid pro
pagandists," whose operations are not
confined to San Francisco, but extend
all over the United States. "This nest
of agitators will be stamped out ' I
am satisfied that a number of persons
were involved In Saturday's tragedy,
members of one of the several secret
organizations that have for their pur
pose the destruction of all forms of
government," said Mr. Fickert.
According to "United States Attorney
John W. Preston, all branches of gov
ernment secret service men are trying
to trace the movements all through
last week of n known group of anar
chists who have been under suspicion
of minor offenses against tho govern
ment for six months.
Death List Growing.
San Francisco. Cal.. July 25. The
death list In the preparedness parado
bomb explosion of Saturday grew to
LEAD FIGHT ON CHILD LABOR BILL j
' 1 S 'f'
Senators E. D. Smith (top left), Hoke Smith and Lee Overman (right).
Senators Lee Overman of North Carolina, Hoke Smith of Georgia and
. D. Smith of South Carolina are leading the fight in the upper house of
congress against the child labor bill, which President Wilson insists must
be passed at the present session. The opposition of the southern senators
is due to the fact that thousands of children work in the cotton mills.
(seven today with the death of Captain
Reuben J. Vaughn, of Berkeley, Cal.,
whose leg was mangled by scraps of
steel and bullets sprayed by the bomb
among the spectators and participants
in the parade, Vaughn was a captain
of a reserve company.
Of the forty or more persons Injur
ed two women are said by physicians
to have about an even chance between
life and death
IRISH SITUATION
GROWING WORSE
Country in Hands of Tempor
ary and Makeshift Govern
ment With No Light
Ahead.
OFFICES UNFILLED
Discontent in Ireland Wide
spread Nationalists Lose
Faith of Constituents and
Face Repudiation.
London, July 25, 1 u. m. Apparently
the status of Ireland has gone stead
ily from bad to worse ever since the
Sinn Fein rising on Easter Sunday,
for at present the country is in tho
hands of a temporary and makeshift
government composed of a commis
sion of judges assisted by Major-Gen-eral
Sir John Maxwell, commander
of the British forces in Ireland who
still is maintaining military control
tions.
There is no viceroy in the .place of
Baron Wimborne, former lord-lieutenant
of Ireland and, as Premier Asquith
announced, that the Dublin castle sys
tern of government was an utter fail
ure none is likely to be appointed.
The office of Augustine Birrell, ex
chlef secretary for Ireland, remains
unfilled and Herbert Samuel, the head
of the home office, who has no special
knowledge of Irish affairs, represents
the interest of Ireland in the cabinet
and before tho house of commons.
Great Britain Facing Trouble.
The most critical Btage of the Avar
again distracted by wranglings over
the old problem and with apparently
no light ahead. The Nationalist mem
bers In the house of commons, who
as a party thus far have supported
the government's war and domestio
measures, threaten to shift their posi.
tion nnd to become an opposition par.
ty. The position of the Nationalists
moreover is anonymous.
Discontent in Ireland over the gov
ernment's dealings with the insurrec-
tion has become so widespread, accord
ing to all reports, that the National'
ists have lost the confidence of their
constituents and probably would be re
pudiated if they stood for re-election
today. The English newspapers of all
factions blame the cabinet for its man
agement of the Irish question and re
gret the failure of a compromise, the
only conspicuous exception being the
Morning Post which consistently has
demanded the government of Ireland
by a strong hand and no home rule.
Government Course Dangerous.
John Redmon. leader of the Irish
Nationalists, in his speech last night
i said:
"I will not bandy words about a
breach of faith or 'the violation of a
solemn agreement, but I want tho
government clearly to understand that
they have entered upon a course which
is bound to increase Irish suspicion
of the good faith of British states
men. To inflame feeling in Ireland
would do serious mischief to' these
high imperial interests which w.e are
told necessitated a provisional settle
ment of this question.
"Some tragic fatality seems to dog
the footsteps of this government in all
their dealings with Ireland. Every
step taken by them since the coalition
was formed and especially since the
unfortunate outbreak in Dublin, have
been lamentable. They have disre
garded every advice we have tendered
them and now, having got us to in
due our people to make a tremendous
sagrifice and to agree to the compact
of the six Ulster counties, they throw
this agreement to the winds and have
taken the surest means to accentuate
every posslbile danger and possible
difficulty in the Irish situation."
nn
LARGE PORCUPINE IS
KILLED I CENTER
OF THE W
-
A seventy-flve-pound porcupine was
clubbed to death this morning about
3 o'clock, by the night watchman at
the local forestry service building.
The watchman was standing in
front of the entrance watching for day
break, when he noticed a huddled
form wabbling along the gutter to
ward him. He greeted it with a club.
The helpless animal wriggled des
perately toward the car tracks, in an
attempt to escape, but was overtaken
and killed.
Boys passing by all morning pulled
quills from the porcupine's back until
the latter was- almost stripped of his
defense.
PROTEST TO BE I
COUNTRY-WIDE I
Letters and Telegrams Re- j :
ceived by Blacklisted Firms '
Matter of Vast Im- (H
portance. j ,
BRITISH ATTITUDE !
Position Considered Illogical, IPI
Unfair to American Citizens
and Violation of Law. :
New York; July 25. The commit- 1
tee of protest formed by fifty or more ,
New York firms and individuals on ! 1
i the British trade blacklist, widened I
its scope today and sought aid from
merchants and bankers throughout the i 'H
country. It was announced that fifty j
letters and telegrams offering support ; j
in the movement against the enforce- ,1
ment of the blacklist have been re Ifl
ceived here from prominent persona t
in other parts of the country. f'l
The local committee has organized i'l
by selecting as its chairman Leopold ,
Zimmerman, of the banking house of f .l
Zimmerman and Forshay. j
In a statement made public today,
Maurice B. Blumenthal, counsel for 1
the organization, said: 1
"We are making haste slowly be- 1 J
cause the great importance and far- i 4
reaching effect of the controversy be- j
tween the two countries require that
the American side be presented de-
liberately . without excitement or jH
clamor. r '1
"In attempting to justify its con- H
duct England has declared through its I
"chief of the foreign trade as follows: r
"The test applied before putting a jH
firm domiciled in America on the
statutory list: Is that firm by its il
business operations strengthening our
enemies? If so then British firms ' ;,H
may not support it hfll
This act reflects an attitude which ''
is first unlawful; second, inconsistent, IH
and, third, absurd. It is unlawful be- I iH
cause In direct conflict with thos.e
provisions of international law which
recognize the right of neutral nations
to- trade with any belligerent power; jJ
it is inconsistent in view of the fact ; .
that during the last fiscal year Eng- '
land has carried on trade relations i
with citizens of the United States j
reaching the billion dollar mark fl
whereby she, England, certainly has jj
been 'strengthened' and if it is fair (
to us as neutral citizens voluntarily i l
to deal with England and thus ; 3
'strengthen' her, how can England be i
heard to say that we are-to be excom-
municated from the realm of com- S
merce if we voluntarily dealTvith Eng-
land's adversaries, thereby 'strength. I
ening' them?" 1
Vigorous Action by U. S.
Washington, July 25. Protection
of American business houses named j
in a commercial blacklist prepared jj fM
by Great Britain is looked for in vlg- 1 1 IH
orous action by the United States. (j
Early steps may bo taken, it was in- H
dicated today, unless satisfactory ex- jj
planations come from London in reply , iH
to informal Inquiries by American R '1
Ambassador Page. President Wilson B
has let it be known that he is deeply 1H
concerned. J
Complications 'Are Forecast. '
Officials see complications in the re- j
ported intention of the allies to take
concerted action along the lines of the ;
British Trading With the Enemy Act. , lH
That would Increase difficulties of I
the business concerns and would ex- I lil
tend diplomatic interchanges. The I , IH
state department already has gathered j '
a mass of information "regarding tho i
blacklist for use in whatever action B
it may take. 1 I
NEGROES RIOT I
AT SAN ANTONIO I
San Antonio, Texas, July 25. Mem- . j ,
bers of the Eighth Illinois negro regl- ?
ment involved in the little riot of last
night when the provost shot down !
three of them, told officers Investigate
ing the Incident today, that they had
been goaded Into a display of their re- 1 j
sentment by derogatory remarks j JM
made to them by the white soldiers ! VM
and civilians as they passed along the j
street. JM
A thorough Investigation by head- g 'H
quarters of the Illinois Second brigade
was under way today. None of the
injured men in the hospital is in a Ml
critical condition. K
GREET EARNINGS OF fj I
U. S. STEEL CORPORATION j I
New York. July 25. The United j g
States. Steel corporation today de- j M
clared an extra dividend of-pne per- K
cent on its common stock in vadditiqn 1
to the regular quarterly dividend of , w
1 1 -1 per cent. ft
The total earnings of the corpora- j jH
tion, for the quarter ended June 30. ,
were 5S1.12G.04S, according to the quar- 5 jjH
terly report. j jH
