4-
WfATfiKH rOtXCAKT
Far Kent nek ri Fair Taeaiayi 4
WaiMMby thnaacreterm.
i
I- THF, LRDfllR U an
Jla 41m tart hrlmr. re.
rta. Oar rate are consist. 4.
eajf wM rlro.lnHon. Try as. 4.
4.
4.4I
tnmiri.r awtrcAX-tim.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, TUESDAY JULY 26, 1916.
ox copYan cMirr.
1 " ..
)
o
.in n BBEBBBtJBBIBBBBi
MUCK M'GRAYNOR
AND RAY LINGREl
In a Pttrhrr' Battle "Murk" St thr
Colnmhno Senator Putin With
Six Safeties
.Muck Mcdiajrnor, former Maysvllle
hiirlcr, and Ray Lingrel, who waa with
IrfxitiKlon when that toam went up
the snout, hooked up in a hurlera'
battle at kit Falls City yesterday, tee
latter finishing; a game for the Colum
bus Senators after a gentleman by the
name of Fllllngira had loat the contest
by N't tine the Colonels, with Muck In
the box all the way through, have two
runs in the second Inning. Muck went
mighty good all the way through, the
Senators scoring their only tally on
two catchers' errors and a sacrifice
fly. He allowed only ala hits and his
great showing la bound to win htm a
happy home for a while, at least.
As for Mr. Ltngrel, he went Into the
box after two prancing Colonels bad
already crossed the pan and while two
more were reposing gracefully on the
sacks. This waa In the last of the sec
ond Inning and two pop flies ended the
rally of the Falls City boys. However,
a single, steal and two sacrifices net
ted them another tally in the sixth,
while four long hlta In thfe seventh
gave thorn three runs and a victory.
However, this didn't completely kill
the brilliance of Llngrel'a performance
In fast company, for the Colonels got
only six blows off his delivery wnlle
he repoeed on the mound. Both young
hurlers have a swell chance to make
good.
BBKWKRS BUY FORMER OHIO
STATE LEAGl'F.RH
Milwaukee, Wis., July 24 Secre
tary Nahln, of the Milwaukee Ameri
can Association baseball club, today
announced the purchase of Pitcher
Reed, of the Portsmouth club, and
Catcher Kohlbecker, from the Mays
vllle club, both members of the de
funct Ohio State League.
Hon A D. fp. wno aa the Ken
tucky member of the platform com
mittee of the I'rogreaalve Party at the
National Convention In 1911 and 1910.
haa been Invited to attend the not Id
eation meeting at Carnegie Hall in
New York City next Monday, and also
to attend a reception given by Mr
Hughes at Hotel Aator immediately
after the notification exercises. He
will probably attend.
TOUJCO NEGRO ARRESTED
The police last night captured young
Robert Beckett, charged with rifling
the cash drawer of the McNamara
Bakery Shop on West Second street.
The boy secured over $16 at various
times. He will be tried before Judge
Rice this afternoon. "Beck" ia the
negro who dancea on the streets about
town. He la only eight years old.
GIDEONS PASS THROUGH
A number of men belonging to the
Gideons passed through this city yes
terday from Huntington, W. Va., where
they have been In convention When
the train stopped they were singing
and during the Ave minutes stay here
eang a number of the old time relig
ious songs.
"TACK PULL1MJ"
The ladies of the Third Street M. E
a
Church will hold a tack pulling at the
church tonight when they will remove
the old carpet preparatory to laying
a new one. All the members of the
church that have tack claws are ex
pected to be present and to pull tacks.
LAYING BRICK IN CR TRACK
VILLA MEN FIRED
SHOTS ON DORDER
Commander Bell Makes Kepert Ut
llmernment. en Recent Tronble 1
Geaiales I NetJIH Mexi
cans Claim the American
r row see International
Line.
El Paso. Texas, July 24 General
Francisco Oonialea, commandant at
Juarez, formally proteated today to
Qeneral George Bell, Jr., commanding
the American forces here, against the
conduct of the outpost guards of the
Ninth Massachusetts Infantry, who
he aald, crossed Into Mexican terri
tory yesterday morning "in violation
of Mexican rights" and last night
shot up "without provocation, a num
ber -of homes of Mexicans south of
the border."
Work waa begun yesterday of laying
brick in the street car tracks on
Bridge street. This work Is rather
tedious as it requires a great many
ot odd sized brick, these having to be
chipped off.
PLEASURE BOAT TRIP
Mrs. T. P. Bramel and children of "New Pleasure Boat Outing" Tuea
this city are visiting her sister, Mrs. clay and Friday, 7:30 p. m. 10 mile ride
Wolcott of Winchester, Ky. j 16 cents. Sunday's 2, 4 and 7 p. m.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car
Good Order For
Spring:
in
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GooEar
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cu by the No-Rlm-Cut feature.
Blowout, by the "On Air" cure.
L0o..Trad. - by many rubber rtvete.
laaecurity by128 but Mr. I piano wires.
Punctur.. M SkWdim by Hie double
thick All-Weather tread.
Vacation Time
Is Here!
Need a Nice Traveling Bag?
We have about twenty-five
splendid traveling bags that we
are - going to close out, NOW, at
a big reduction.
They range in price from $1.75
to $22.00, and we are going to
SELL THEM.
Enough said; if you need a bag,
here's your chance.
MIKE BROWN
"The Square Deal Man"
the paper aald, and added that It ap
peareri to be making reconnaissances
Statement In Hade
"Thia, the Mexican authorltlea can
In no wlae permit," It commented.
The Vlllletaa were guilty of treach
ery at Inde, atate of Durango, accord
ing to El Democrato, where they aelied
the email Carrania garrison after
pretending that they had come In to
Riirrender under the government pro
clamation of amneaty. It waa charged
that the Mayor of Inde. Manual Sales
Sanchez, conrtUrerl at the treachery
The hand, however, waa aurprlaed by
Qeneral I'etronilo Hernandez, whoee
brother, Colonel Henandei, aa com
hiander at Inde, bad been taken else
where. Hellevtng themaelvea to be
outnumbered the handlta lied, leaving
their prlaonera behind. Colonel Her
nndes himself waa wounded by the Are
of his reecuera.
Bierlranx Shoot Hack
In regard to the Mexican protest,
General Bell said:
"Our men have orders to shoot back
when ahot at. They will be punished
If they are guilty of shooting first. But
their instructions are to answer nny
Bre. And the sooner that the Mexi
cans learn that they ran not snipe with
Impunity, the better It will be for both
The wofk on the new Day and Night
Oarage Is progressing rather fast now
The walla are beginning to rise and
the work will he finished by the first
of September The building will be
built entirely of concrete and steel. A
great number of concrete blocks are
being made on the site of the garage
and they are being put In place at
quickly as possible.
MOM PARTY
Sun Hurt Your Eyes?
Oa(. ...... un j OT' w mm
mir pine or KHAIH- MMSSFM. All bl.wi.
and prices.
The Movie Picture Olass relieves the eyes See them
Also latest style Auto Goggles.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
THIRD AMI) MARKET STREETS
P. 8. We have the heat 11 00 Flttn.i tr m... aa
- v vjiac.b.-b lm iUV tstlj .
Miss Florence Dodaon of East Third
street had as her guests at a house I
ALUMINUM WARE
On account of the very high price at present, we have limited the
1arty this week. Misses Elizabeth Peck premiums to the various pieces we have in stock,
and lionise Meldehl of Chllo, Ohio,' We are receiving the very nicest strawberries totnino- to town
OEISEL ft CONRAD PHONE 48.
and Messrs. Chester Hogan and Ever
ett Hendrlckson of Cincinnati
HKI.I) I'NTIL WEDWESDA V
The case ot John Darnell, charged
with grand larceny, waa held over In!
Police Court yeaterday afternoon un
til Wednesday when he will be given)
trial.
SKTTIJIH ttl ARIf RAILS
The Street Car Company was busy
yesterday laying the guard rails on
Bridge ,
Major General J. Franklin B.li, United
tatee Army.
Ueneral George Bell, Jr., command
ing the El Paso military district, to
night notified General Francisco
Gonzalea, commandant in Juarez, that
his reports indicated that six outlaws
Villa sympathizers, have been respon
aible for the recent exchanges of shots
between Massachusetts National
guardsmen in thla vicinity and Mexi
cans south of the frontier. These out
laws, General Bell's Information said.
have a rendexvous on "The Island, a
bit of Mexican territory a few miles
below El Paso, left on the Acmlcan
side of the river when the Rio Grande
formed a new channel. He suggested
that General Gonzalea take steps to
break up the band.
I investigations Continued
Both General Bell and General
Gonzalea tonight continued their In
vestlgatlons of last night's exchange
of shots between outposts of the
Ninth Massachusetts Infantry and re
port that the Americans had crossed
into Mexican territory. During the
day the two commanders exchanged
views several times, tbrough Andres
Garcia, Mexican Consul at El Paso,
with a view to eliminating the sniping
below E Paao.
General Bell added that Brigadier
General Leroy Sweetzer, commanding
the Massachusetts troops, reported
tbat the Mexicans fired first.
(Jan-la FUea Protest
A protest aganlst the shooting
across the border waa filed through
Andres Garcia, the Mexican Consul,
today, who also suggested to General
Bell that regular troops, accustomed
to border conditions, replace guards
men, who in the main are new to
soldiery and to the country at the
point where the shooting occurred.
This, he said, would give the people
on the Mexican side a feeling of
security.
The place where the shooting occur
red last night Is on the Rio Grande
a fow miles below El Paso at a point
known as the "Island." It la no
longer an island, however, but a
piece of Mexico north of the river.
The outpost olaimed they were ahot
at first, but the Mexicans living op
posite reported to General Gonzales
that not a shot was fired from the
Mexican side before the Americans
began an unprovoked attack against
civilians, Including women and chil
dren. In this protest General Oon
ialea affirmed that no Mexican sol
diers are stationed in the neighbor
hood of the Island and that he had
no Information of outlawa or smug
glers belug in that region. General
Oonzales said the Judge of lettera of
the Juares court has been aaalgued
to make a thorough Investigation of
the shootlug and the reported cross
ing of American troopa. On the re
port that au aeroplane, believed to be
long to the American punitive ex
pedition , had been aeen near I
Manrha, south of Torreon. Oeneral
Jacinto Trevlno from Chihuahua tele
graphed orders to his gsrrlson In that
regiou to bring It down "by any poaal
ble manner" and to capture the aviator
according to El Duuerato of rhl
iiuthut, under the rata of last laatur
day, oojdas of which arrived here to
day. The aeroputa waa seen July 10,
aides.
s 10 crossing ine me international tno 0rVeB 0f the track aloiiu
line, if it can be shown that any of'anti EaBt second streets.
our men have done so In defiance '
of my orders, they will be punished."
General Bell also stated that the
Mexican authorities ut Guadalupe had
voluntarily Informed him that the two
horses and two mules taken from
Reynold's ranch, nesr Fabens, Tex.,
by Mexican thieves, will be returned
to the owner this afternoon. He de-
hied that he communicated previous
ly with tho Csrranza authorities on
this matter.
A DOOR OP M6XITY
and beauty gives an Individuality to a
dwelling. You can obtain one here to
a choice of designs and with a wood
finish to harmonize with the color
scheme of the building. It will fit ac
curately according to the measure
ments given and being thoroughly sea
soned , once hung It will neither sag
or shrink. Ye shall be glad to have
you calL
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone MA
A. A. Mr La ugh I la. L. R. Befcea.
egn. Soldiers Shot
3an Antonio, Texas, July 24 Four
soldiers of the Eighth Illinois Cavalry,
a negro regiment, were shot and
woumled tonight by a squad of the
provost guard which had come to the
rescue of a white man the soldiers
were attacking near the military camp
All the men wounded were Bhot in the
legs. None was seriously hurt.
ftG6K8TI0ITS FOR CAMPMKKTING
Hammocks, Croquet and Lunch Sets,
Napkins, Drinking Cups, Paper
Plates, Fiber Dishes and Canned
Heat. J. T. KACKLEY & CO. J25-2
"The Home of QUALITY Clothes"
Sale of Children's Wash Suits
$1.2r value reduced to ti.'.e. and $1.7.') values reduced to $1. These suits are all this sea
sou's models, aud include a variety of fabrics. Age 3 to 8. They delight the hearts of the
tots. Mothers, bring your children in to see them. Porno early while the assortment is com
plete. Hot Weather Clothes
No Wate, Zephyrite, Palm Beach and Keep Kool cloth in a diversity of colors.
White Trousers. Snmmer Coats.
Accessories to the Wardrobe of the Summer Vacationist
Bathing and Swimming Suits, White and Palm Beach Oxfords.
D. HECHINGER & CO.
Women's Lingerie Frocks At
Generous Reductions
Exactly the cool, dainty dresses you need, whether you are going to stay at home or go away.
Simplicity is the dominant note and you know that means youthful, becoming frocks. Sheer voiles lawns, soft batistes,
novelty cottons, organdies and nets are here in many styles. Some have embroidered bands, others laees. tucks, ribbons or
hemstitching, for their prettifying. Reductions ate One-third. One-fourth and One-half.
- More Striped Skirtings
We hardly remember any such vogue as there is ut this moment for striped skirts,
skirting fabrics in stunning stripes.
We have a charming assot'tuibart of
Prices 25c, 35c and 50c
'u ii nil) n i ii ifli ii iH) ii ta mjy " ifj i ir i ifi mfy i ij n ifV infr mli n A "A "p
OVKK MHi,om HORSKS
European War over 800,000 horses and
mulea have been shipped via the C. A
Since the beginning of the great JO. to Norfolk, Va., from where they
have been shipped to the warring
countries. As this is the main line
of thai railroad all of these animate
have paaaed through hero. Tho total
value of these animals is far in es
cess of $100,000,000.
S IF YOU REALLY WISH TO
IKEEP UP WITH THE STYLES!
S Read our advertisements and make frequent visits to our store. Then you will never
S 8 astray.
WHITE CANVAS PUMPS are all the rage. They are sensible too; for, during
5 this hot, sizzling weather, comfort is much to be desired.
You ctrtainly should wear SPORT STPiPES this summer. We have them in
all desirable shades. Grenadine material 50c per yard. Crepe de chine material 39c
per yard. Skirts in different colored stripes $1 and $1.50.
The ORGANDIE COLLARS at 25c and 50c are very neat and up to date.
i
l
