MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Eagle will bring buyer
and Mller together.
THE WEATHER
Tonight and Wednesday, unsettled,
with thunder showera.
Itie
AND PILOT
VOL. XXX, NO. 177.
BRYAN, TEXAS, TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1916.
PRICE $4.00 PER ANNUM
Eaile
ft
3k
n
ssmm Peuefaatei' Gemmy's FmM lines
a. I'i'nni-inn.nfinAJm.i.
Good Sardines
Just received a new shipment of FRENCH and NOR
WEGIAN SARDINES Small Fish.
Hardy Newton
OPERATING IN TEXAS
WITHOUT LICENSE
State Fire Inauranee Commissioner
Claim That Outalde Companlea
Doing Buaineaa Without
Llcenae.
Austin, Texas, July 25. Rased on
Information that much fire Insurance
buslnoss waa being written In Texas
by companies not authorized or to
tally licenced to write such buslnoss,
the State Fire Insurance Commlnslon
has issued a ruling that It will not
In the future authorize inspections
of fire risks where' the insurance
company ia not authorized to do
business In the state.
VU1E
UP
mi rem
CATTLE 15 SENT
HA
T
ARE ALSO CLOSING IN
OW TURKISH FORTRESS
Extreme Weather Condition In South
Texas Causes Raiser to Send
Cattle to North Texaa.
(Br Associated Press)
Corpus Chrlstl, Texas, July 25
Probably no more unusual and cli
matic weather conditions, aa affect
ing agricultural pursuits, ever ex
isted In this portion of southwest
Texas than the prolonged drouth j
Russians Are Making Consistent Gains on the -
Eastern Front and Germany Acknowledges
They Have Penetrated Her First Lines
Petrograd Says the Russians Are Within Ten
Miles of the Turkish Fortified Town of Er
zigan The British Captured a Village on the
Western Front and Repulsed the German
Counter Charges The . French Claim to
Have Made Important Captures England's
Black List Policy Defended in House of Com
mons, i y
(By Associated Tress.)
London, June 25. The British
troopa have captured the greater part
of the village of Boneitria, aaya the
London statement The Germane
brought up reinforcements of Infantry
and guna, but their counter attacks
everywhere were repulsed.
On the south bank of the Somme
which waa broken by general rains In Rvtp yatrday the French captured
thla section during July. During the'a bock o( houtea aouth of Eatreaa
time stock-raisers were compelled to ind drova th Germane out of their
aend catle on summer vacations to'.,.,,,,.),,, nortn 0f Vermandenillers,
central and north Texas pastures. I .. . Ina par. ttatement, The Ger-
Aa a result of thla drouth varied , -.. bulletin claima the Enaliah and
condttlona In cotton farming are to'prneh combined attacks made yes
be found. On several large farms terday north of the Somme broke
three stages of cotton production are ; down. A aecond German bulletin an-
THIRTY-EIGHT DIE
ISO NEW GASES
found to exist simultaneously, plant
ing, cultivating and picking. Cotton
nouncea the Ruaalana have penetrated
the German first line In a small part
New York, July 25. According to
reports at ten o'clock thla morning,
during the past - twenty-four hours
there have been 38 children died and
ISO new cases reported in the infan
tile paralysis epidemic In this city.
WELCIflllTE
The Uniform Rank of the W. O. W.
Are Holding Their Annual En
campment at Wichita Falla.
will be from 0 to 120 days late In 0f the front defended by von Listen-
this section, agricultural authorities gen's troopa. I
naw prruicif-u. uini car mo iuiii- mi reirwgreu " -
tern countlea affected by the drouth ;n detachments already have cap
produced by September 1, 165,000 tured position only 10 milea from the
bales of cotton, valued at approxi- Turkish fortified town of Enlgan.
AGREE TO
FIGH
T
Wichita Falla. Texaa, July 25. An mately 10,000,000. and other diver f
encampment of the mcmbera of the alfled cropa valued at H.500.000.
uniform rank. Woodmen of the World 1
opened today at Uke Wichita. a re- t DOREMUS ILL.
eort near here, with and partlclpat
Ing in the drill exercises. Prominent
Black Llat Defended.
London. July 25. Lord Robert Ce
cil, minister of war trade, defended
World'a Champlenehfp for Lightweight
Pugilist Will Be Staged In Colo
rado Springs on Labor Day.
(By Associated Press.)
Chicago, July 24. Agreement has
been made between the managers of
Freddie Welch and Charlie White to
iiiiiiiiiuiiiiimuiiiiiiintiir1, tiiKimisiiisiniiti
; j m '- (if
! 4-rr If'1 " .
The Hon el III Tun Cake 3adalut
Announcement
We are gratified to announce that we have,
made arrangement to aupply you with the famous
Stone's Wrapped Cakes
Pura, delicious, homo-Eke flavored cakes of uneiueDcd merit.
pure
84
They are made of the purest ingredients, including
country buttar positively no laid used train sulk and
Baked in a modern no-to-the-minute bakery constructed
for th baking of cakes exclusively the only bakery of its
kind in Texas. Capacity 3,000 Stone a lake per
"Once yea fry tJUm, jrom'H
mimayt injur mm Stoom't"
-rrri"
10 cents
REID
a package
BRC
aajaaaaaaaaaa,
OS.
J
ILLS TOM
hasa th-tn hatfla nn I.ahnr Dav at
ihe British black llat from American ! ,. ...- ..u. i..
I r.lAM Oni4.fi Tha flehf will ha
Judge John W. Doremus underwent criticisms In the House of Commons fw ,lght
Woodmen from the I'nlted States slight au
were expected to address the Texas afternoon
gathering. In addition to those en- The Judge
rglcal operation yesterday T. "H"! lno "' weight championship of the world.
at the Fountain Sanitarium. 'off thoae wno naa oeen open.y Tne flght for purae o( ,17f.
waa able to alt op today. t-ngianu. m, E00 ,. - vj ,-
from there are to the ef-."unjusuy inciuucu. a. a a -
and reports
feet that he will be all right In a very
few days.
steps would be taken.
j. 8. DOANE HOME.
COLLEGE ROAD IRK
camped, about 1000 visitors were ex
pected. The uniform rank of the Wood
men of the World Is a military aux
iliary to the main body. It contains
members of the various drill teama
of hundreds of lodges over the state.
ATTENTION R. A. M.
.Mr. J. 8. Doaiie, the popular hotel
Th.ra win ha a raiirwi maaiinr in. ' man of the city, returned last night
night of the Chapter at 8:30. Work from Mineral ella. where ne na
WELL UfaDER WAY
Accumulated Gaa In Waterworks
Tunnel Under Lake Erie Explod
ed Laat Night Causa Unknown.
Cleveland, 0 July 25. Twenty-two
men are dead and alx others are in a
dying condition aa the reault of the
explosion of gaa which had accumu
lated In a waterworks tunnel five
miles from shore underneath Lake
Erie at a late hour laat night The
HAW
COriSlGTIOIJ BILL
Official Word Haa Been Sent te the
Capital That the President Standa
Behind Naval Bill.'
(By Associated Press)
Washington, July 15. Official word
waa aent to the Capitol today etatlng
that President Wilson standa behind 1
the construction program naval bill
Just ai It passed the Senate. The pr
dead Include workmen who ware ram Includes four dreadnoughta and
. in v- a -.-- .. ij ' ttoaorl rout Mr. Doane la looking
held on account of Come out ,nd enJoy your.l much better a. the reault of hi. trip j
ptM, i w ar-t
claring the Woodmen unlforma should
be changed on account of their sem
blance to the regular United Statea
atary uniform. However, the effect
iveness of this order waa poatoned
until after the Wichita meeting.
NOTICE, K. OF P'S.
Regular meeting of the lodge to
night. Initiation work In the aecond
ONEHAL1
P.
PR1DDY. 11.
JWER.
.NCHHO
Tho refreshing shower which visit-
sayethat he feels now like getting
bark Into the harness, not only In his
private affaire but with the affaire of
the city, In which he alwaya haa tak
en a very active part. Mra. Poane.
Part of Thla Week Grading
Work Practically Finished.
Equipment and material for the
paving of College and Rryan road ia
arriving dally. Tbe t'valde Rock and
Asphalt Company, who are to do the
paving, on yesterday unloaded three
flat care of brand new machinery
i ii.Ia Xllaa TWnthv and Master Jack
ed the City of Dryan thla afternoon , . . .m . i,..t
.v- .i aic - : .i.v .wi... . . .w m v.. j...
waa a noiiRni io me enure ciiwrn-. , ,. . . . . , ..i- j un nn me uf,
i anu idq uiairriai lur.iiie ju ani.-
The
I ship. According to the local weather
l observer, John Paly. Jr., the preclpl-
degree. A full aitendance Is desired, i tatlon waa one half Inch, and Is the womftn Vlll aave a dollar before
FRANK McGEK. C. C. most rain that haa fallen In the city man ,,at MV0(, 10 conti
R. I SMITH. K. of R. 8. at one time In several weeka. I
When It cornea to saving pennlea a dy from varloua points.
' a . - 1 I Ika a.. a
trapped in the tuanel when the explo
sion occurred and members of two
rescue parties. Eleven of the dead
were workmen who were trapped In
the tunnel by the explosion. The
cause of the terrible disaster li not
yet known. The first rescue party
consisted of seven, four of whom per
tahed and the other three being saved.
The second re sou party had 11 men,
of which alx lost their Uvea. Out of
the eight rescuers who got out alive
two later died and the remaining ones
may die aa they are suffering severe
ly from the gaa fumea. The tragic
fate of the rescuers waa due to tha
fact that they worked without ovv
(en helmets, which were not avail
wble. The city will Investigate the
tour battle cruiser to be built tame-'
dlately. . ;al.
lack of helmets.
Later Advlcea, "
Cleveland. July 25. Tbe rescuers,
working with oxygen helmets, have
brought out eight bodies from the tun
nel, no mora were found alive. All
10 bodlea so far recovered are mem
bers of the flrat and aecond rescue
parties. The It workmen originally
entombmed are atlll burled. The res
cuers believe that the tunnel caved
In after the. explosion and that the re
maining victims are buried under tons
of mud and may not be rescued tot
several days.
awwwwMwaMwwwwwwvwwaiwwwwwwMAiwwaMMMawwaa
Buy Furniture on Credit
Our plan of selling furniture on credit makes it easy for you to enjoy the comforts
of a well furnished home without waiting to save the money to pay for it.
PAY WHILE YOU ARE ENJOYING THE FURNITURE Come and select what
you wish make a small first payment and other payments can be arranged to suit
your convenience.
We sell all kinds of furniture, stoves,' Fireleis Cookers, Refrigerators, Pianos,
Organs, Victrolas, Sheet Music, Window and Porch Shades, Awnings, Hsmmocks,
Lawn and Porch Goods, Etc
COME TO SEE US FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED.
&'
D U D II aOaUUUUaV
actual work of laying the pavement
will start, according to officials of
this company, the latter part of thla
week. The grading of the road haa
been practically finished and every
thing la In readiness for the paving
to start. Tho road haa been closed
to traffic and the completion of the
work will depend altogether on the
weather conditions.
Work on the county roads Is prog
ressing nicely with the continued dryj
weather. Announcement waa made
thla morning by Messra. llayden and
lute that some parte of a tew differ
ent road were Just about ready to
turn over to the commissioners. A
test of tho gravel which la coming
from tho Yuma pit haa been made
and It was found that same .after be-,
Ing wet and packed a tittle forms a
very hard material almost as hard
aa a brick, and with a nine Inch thh k- (
nea of this material In tho center of.
the road, cltUen of Rraxos County
need have no fear of the roads giving
way ary time soon.
WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWMWaaMMWWWW
An office holder should save somo
money but not enough to stsrt an
Investigation.
It I crtott tkt Ituuty aief Ccmfc'f of !ip iuf!
NEW FURNITURE
Don't build your home merely for out
side appearance. Make it attractive and
comfortable inside.
Our constant cffort is to obtain new
designs that will meet with your every re
quirement, and with a close scrutiny of
every detail of construction in the manu
facture. We would like to have you call and see
our stock of furniture those beautiful
f bedroom suits in birds eye, mahogany, old
ivory and oak. Willow sets, comfortable
rockers, art squares, rugs and refrigera
tors. W.T. JAMEFllnlllTUnE
"The Store That Gives Service That Busy People Appreciate,"
jijijirtri.njiiwinrLrLrii - - -- ..rr.rri.-.rr rrr
