THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 111.
11AHUE, VKltMOXT, TUKSDAV, JULY 23, 1010.
ritICK, OXK CENT.
TRAPPED FAR
BENEATH LAKE,
22 MEN DIED
Expl
osion of Gas in Water
works Tunnel Killed Elev
en Men, and Two Rescue
Farties Met Fate Because
of Inadequate Preparation
for Entering Gas-Filled
Hole
BIX MORE MEN ARE
REPORTED DYING
(Gang of Men Were Digging
Five Miles from Shore of
Lake Erie When the Ex
plosion Occurred, Being
Engaged in Construction
Work for the City of
Cleveland
GERMAN FLOTILLA
OF SUBMARINES
ON AY TO U. S.
Rumor at Norfolk, V., IUi It That They
Will Attack British and French
Patrol Boats When Deutsch
land Dashes to Sea.
Norfolk, Va., July 25. All kinds of
craft are being made ready to take thu
trail of the Dcutschland when she dah
to the boh. It is rumored that a llotilln
la of armed German submarines i on the
way to attack the British and French
put rl when the Dcutschland starts,
PARTLY SUBMERGED
FRENCH WON
NEAR ESTREES
They Captured Block of
Houses South of That
Town Last Night
Cleveland, 0., July 25. Twenty-two
men are dead and half a dozen others
are dying as the result of an explosion
r.f gas in a waterworks tunnel five milt-s
from the shore under Lake Erie late last
night. The dead included workmen who
vera trapped in the tunnel when the gas
exploded and the members of two reB-
cue parties who attempted to save the
men who were first trapped. Of the dead
eleven were in the force trapped by the
explosion. None of these escaped.
A third rescue party brought out alive
Gustav C. VanDuzen, superintendent of
the waterworks construction, who had
headed the second relief force. He may
die.
The tragic fate of the rescuers in the
first and second instances was due to the
fact that they worked without oxygen
helmets, which were not available. As
to those rescued, who afterwards died,
no pulmotors were at hand for use in at
tempting to resuscitate .them.
The cause of the explosion has not
yet been ascertained. It is supposed that
one of the workmen struck a pocket of
gas with his pick.
The Deutschland Is Also Making Other
Preparations to Leave.
Baltimore, Julv 22. A communion
service was held Inst night aboard th
interned North German Lloyd steame
Neckar, lying alongside the submarine
Deutschland, tor the captain and crew o
the submarine. Rev. Otto Anitz, Or
man immigrant missionary, conducted
the service. In his prayer he asked tha
the vessel and her crew niav have a safe
vovage home.
The service was followed bv a ban
qui't. The Neckar was brilliantly light
ed.
The Dcutschland was partially sub'
merged at her slip at 0:31) last evening
The water is not deep enough for full
submergence.
A series of events yesterday afternoon
at the pier where the merchant subma
rine Deutschland is berthed indicated
that her departure would not be long de
layed. The most significant of these
were the tilling of her water tanks and
the stowing below her deck of the crew's
bedding as it was removed from the in
terned North Herman Lloyd stumer
Neckar nearby. Since their arrival two
weeks ago the Deutschland's crew have
been sleeping alioard the Neckar.
Shortly after the water tanks had
been filled, heavy blue smoke was no
tired coming from behind the barges that
screened the Deutschland from view and
directly at her stern. The wind blowing
from the direction of the submarine car
ried the odor of fuel oil, and it was evi
dent that the vessel's engines were being
tested.
These activities were preceded by the
sealing of the submarine s wireless ap
paratus by a government radio inspector.
This was in accordance with a federal
law calling for such action at the ex
piration of two weeks.
STRANGE SHIP STIRS BOSTON
CAMPAIGN TO SAVE TEETH
Proposed in Address Before National
Dental Association.
Louisville, Ky., July 25. '"That pre
vention is preferable to cure is conceded
by all possessing the true professional
spirit, and it is the duty of the dental
profession to prevent, in a large measure,
malocclusion of the teeth of the rising
generation, said Dr. J. Lowe Young of
j.'ew York City to-day in an address be
fore the annual convention of the Na
tional Dental association, his subject be
ing "The Prevention of Malocclusion."
Dr. Young claimed that all orthodontic
npplianccs could be dispensed with at 12
cr 13 years of age if proper precautions
and methods were adopted. In order to
obtain the results desired, he said it was
jiecesaary that treatment be begun prior
to, or during, the eruption of the perma
nent teeth.
"The principal causes of malocclusion,"
said- Dr. Y'oung, "may be set down as
follows: abnormal tissues in the oral
cavity and adjoining parts; loss of tooth
material; mechanical; disuse; habits.
Observation has convinced me that the
two latter are the most important. For
generations, human foods have been so
prepared that little or no mastication Is
necessary to tickle the palate and awal
jow the toon, the result ot this very
limited use of the muscles of mastication
Js lack of normal stimulation of the tis
fcues surrounding the teeth, lack of flow
of blood, and lack of normal resorption
of the roots of the deciduous teeth."
After commenting on the possible ef
fects of this condition on the habits of
childhood, Dr. Young continued: "The
Xnandible is a movable bone, and close
observers are convinced that the child
unconsciously shifts the mandible me
dially, distally or to either side, to get
ithe teeth in the position to best masti
cate food. This position, if abnormal
and allowed to continue, brings improper
muscular force and, necessarily, improp
er development. Children of three years
of age or older should have their months
carefully examined by a dentist, and it
is the duty of a dentist conducting a
family practice to remind parents of the
necessity of sending their children for
fuel) examination."
Dr. Young maintained that orthodon
tic appliances should be. removed from
the mouth at certain intervals and the
child permitted to enjoy a period of sev
eral months of freedom from the device,
the object being to permit uninterrupted
Foreign Battleship Said to Be Cruising
About the Harbor;
Boston, July 25. A great foreign bat
tleship, her name obliterated with paint
and her sides masked in a neutral gray,
hovered on the three-mile limit outside
of Boston harbor last night, lying in wait
for the German super-submarine Bremen,
long overdue at an American port.
Newspapermen, cruising about Massa
chusetts bay in a chartered tug, came
suddenly upon the great fighting yessd
which sped along, alert for the sight of a
hostile periscope.
The same ship, or a similar one, was
sighted yesterday afternoon by the ma
rine observer on Telegraph hill. Thu
flag which was flown at her taffrail could
not be identified, but that she was one
of LTncle Sam's fighting units was oi
vious; the basket masts, peculiar to the
United States navy, were lacking.
STORMED TRENCHES
AT VERMANDOVILLERS
A German Attack at Basch
miller in Alsace Said to
Have Failed
The BritUh are holding all ground
gained at the Somme front against des
perate counter attacks by the Germans,
according, to the London statement.
Fresh troops have been pushed into the
fray on the German side but General
Haig reports that the attacks on both
the British right flank and center were
stopped by the concentrated fire of the
British, the Germans at no point suc
ceeding in reaching the British trenches ; fiasco,
north of Pozieres. London reports that
additional ground has been gained by
alight advances at other points in hand-to-hand
fighting by infantry.
raris, July 2.). On the south bank of
the Somme last night, French troops cap
tured a block of houses south of Estrees
and they drove the Germans out of the
trenches north of Vermandovillers, saya
French communication. A German at
tack on French positions at Basehwillcr
n Aisace is claimed to have failed.
ENGLAND AGAIN TORN
BY IRISH QUESTION
Nationalists, as a Party Threaten to Leave
the Support of the Government and
Form an Opposition Party,
London, July 23. Apparently the sta
tus of Ireland has gone steadily from
bad to worse ever since the Sinn Fein
rising for at present the country is
in the hand of temporary governmeut
composed of commission of judges, as
sisted by the commander of the British
forces who maintains military control
over most police functions.
England finds itself in one of the most
critical stages of the war again l.y
wrangling over the old problem and with
no light ahead. The Nationalists, who
as a party nave supported tne govern
ment war ami ilemncratio measure!,
threaten to shift their position and be
come an opposition party. The English
newspapers this morning blame the cab
inet for it management of the Irish
question and regret the failure of the
compromise.
The Daily New report that David
Lloyd George, in view of the failure of
the Irish negotiations, in which he was
the chief agent, offered to resign hi of
fice. "The premier's attitude," says the
News, "is understood to be that if Mr.
Lloyd George resign he should consid
er himself obliged to resign also. The
matter is now being discussed.
1 here is no doubt that the events of
the past week, fulminating in the lruh
adds the paper, have weak
ened the coalition government' post
TO PURCHASE
NAVAL BASE
United States Will Pay $23,
000,000 For the Danish
West Indies
TREATY PREPARED
FOR SENATE ACTION
Official Announcement of
Completion of Negotiations
tion.'
HOME RULE FAR OFF
GERMANS ARE BEING
SLOWLY PUSHED OUT
OF POZIERES
The Brought Up Reinforcements of In
fantry and Guns But Their Counter
Attacks Were Everywhere
Repulsed.
London, July 25. British troops have
captured the greater part f the village
of Pozieres, says the British official
statement -to-dav. The Germans brought
p reinforcements of infantry and guns
but their counter attacks everywhere
were repulsed.
SUCCESS STAND
AGAINST RUSSIANS
IN BERESTECHK
DR. HARRIS DYING
State of Indianapolis.
Indianapolis, Ind., July 23 Men, worn
development as much as possible and alo fn. anJ lh,IJr,n estimated at 5O.0O0, ad-
Victim of Murderous Assault Can Live
But a Short Time.
Boston, July 25. Dr. Wilfred E. Har
ris, president of the Massachusetts Col
lege of Osteopathy, who was shot at his
office in the Hotel Westminster Tuesday,
by Dr. Eldridge de L. Atwood of Woburn,
was reported to be in a very critical con
dition at the City hospital last evening.
His death was believed to be only a
matter of hours.
In the event of Dr. Harris' death, the
police of station 16 will immediately ap
ply for a warrant on a charge of murder
against Dr. Atwood, who is now held
at the Charles street jail in $15,000 bail,
on a charge of assault with a loaded re
volver with intent to kill. He was ar
raigned on the charge last week and tlje
case continued for a hearing next Fri
day. Dr. Harris' condition, which had hith
erto remained surprisingly good, took a
decided turn for the worse early yester
day morning and he grew steadily weak
er throughout the day. That he has
lived so long after the murderous as-1
sault made upon him is undoubtedly due
to his strong constitution and amazing
vitality.
The news of Dr. Harris approaching
death has intensified the interest in the
mystery which still surrounds the other
side of the double tragedy, the death of
Dr. Celia Paine Adams, the Brookline
osteopathia! and fiancee of Dr. Atwood,
whose alleged relations with Dr. Harris
were, according to Atwood's confession,
the reason for his attack upon his for
mer teacher.
Vienna Statement Asserts That the
Czar's Troops Have Been Halted in
That Sector of Southern Volhy
nian Front.
Berlin, July 25. Teutonic troops on
the southern Volhynian front have made
a successful stand against the Russian
attacks in the Bereetechk sector, close
to the Galician border, says the official
V lenna statement.
ITALIANS CAPTURE
MONTE CIMONE
Official Statement Issued at Rome Tells
of Further Success Against
the Austrians.
Rome, July 25. The Italian troops
have captured Monte Cimone from the
Austrians says the Italian official re
port.
RUSSIANS PIERCE
GERMAN FIRST LINE
ON SMALL FRONT
Significant Statement Made By Premier
Asquith.
London, July 25. A significant remark
was made in the House of Commons last
evening by Premier Asquith at the con
clusion of a debate on a motion for ad
journment made by John Rodmond, the
Nationalist leader, following an an
nouncement by he premier that the gov
ernment had no intention of introducing
any home rule tor J re land bill with re
gard to which there was no substantial
agreement among all parties. In ap
pealing to the Nationalists not to throw
away the -opportunity for bringing home
rule into immediate operation, Mr. As
quith said:
"1 ask the House and will ask the
country if necessary, if the government'
proposals are not fair."
Just before the motion of Mr. Red
mond was voted down, Mr. Asquith di-
Irectly addressed the Nationalists, deny
ing that any partiality had been shown
to either aide during the negotiations.
Mr. Asquith declared that the exclusion
of the ix Ulster counties from the op-,
eration of the home rule act was to his
mind the greatest give and take arrange
ment ever made in the history of a po
litical controversy and he asked the Na
tionalists not to break off the negotia
tion. Mr. Redmond desired an adjournment,
saying that he wished to call the atten
tion of the members of the House to the
rapidly growing unrest in Ireland and,
the deplorable effect resulting from the
government not having carried out in its
Berlin Official Report Admits Reverse for
Von Linsingen's Troops but Declares
Combined English and French At
tack Failed in Somme Front
Berlin, July 25. The English and
French combined attack made yesterday
north of the Somme broke down, says
the official statement.
Russian troops have succeeded in pene
trating the German first line on a small
part of the front defended by Von Lin
singen's troops.
THOUSANDS VIEW BODY.
VERDUN TROOPS MOVED.
to 'facilitate proper cleaning of the teeth.
ALLEGED MURDER CONFESSION
Followed Discovery of Man's Body at
Schuylerville, N. Y.
Troy, N. Y.. July 25. The charred re
tnains of refer Ransom Bain were found
yesterday in the ruins of a barn at
tN-huylerville. Investigation showed that
the man had beeti slain, and Mr. Bain
and Roliert Parker were placed under
rrest.
Last night, according to District Attor-, Thomas Taggart, United State senator
liey Mc-Kelvey, the couple confessed to for Indiana; former Vice President
Laving kicked Rain to death after be had .Charles W. Fairbanks, Governor Samuel
iound them together in a field !M. Ralston, Henry Watteron of Louis-
irgg-d the body to the barn, and burned 1 vilie, Harrr S. Sew, Meredith Nicholson
t'e structure in an effort to cover u;
tb"ir crime.
Mrs. Bain is 23 year old and Parker
t a few year her junior. The prisoner
re charged with murder in the first de-
Are Now Defending German Line On
Somme Front.
London, July 25. At Pozieres the Aus
tralians are rtill fighting furiously with
the Germans for possession of the vil
lage and the head of the road leading
That of Tames Whitcomb Riley Lay inMrom it to Bapaume, and the greater
a r . u - ,.:n : ... - i 4 .
Jilllt ui imc . niitptv is mm irj-iriiu it'
be in their bands. There has been a
diminution in the vicious fighting which
began Saturday night along the British
front from Thiepval to Guillemont.
A condition of comparative calm pre
vails south of the Somme along the
French line, where the only fighting re
ported and that a minor engagement
resulted in the French capturing a Ger
man battery south of Eatress. Eastward, j
in the Verdun region, the French have
occupied a German redoubt west of
Thiaumont, taking with it fire machine
guns and two score of prisoner.
Berlin still asserts that the only re
sult of the BritUh attack Sunday along
the Thiepral-Guillemont line was the
penetration of a few houses in the vil
lage of Poiieres, and that the Austral
ians obtained these only after having
suffered sanguinary ksc.
That German troops hare been re- j
moved from the Verdun front for the ;
Somroe operation is apparent from the
German statement tbat Brandenburg
grenadier "of Pouauroont fame" defeat
ed the BritUh in the fight Sunday at
Lo!ueTaL
entirety the tentative agreement for
temporary government in Ireland. The
determination of the Nationalists to re
sist any modification in the terms of the
agreement and the declaration of David
Lloyd George, who negotiated the agree
ment, that the government would not
force new proposals on the Irish nation
were the outcomes of the debate.
The situation in Ireland thus remains
where it was with the additional factor
of the unrest brought about by the dis
appointed hopes of a settlement of the
issues. In the absence of anv amending
bill the situation now is that the order
in council postponing the operation of
the home rule act as it stands on the
statute book until six months after the
lapse of 18 months, mentioned in the or
der in council issued in September, 1015,
unless the war has previously ended, re
mains in force.
Mr. Redmond characterized the new
proposals as an absolute and disgraceful
breach of faith toward his supporters.
Mr. Lloyd-George regarded the National
ist failure to agree to them as a disas
ter, while Sir Edward Oarson, the Union
ist leader in Ulster, declared it would be
a good thing if he and Mr. Redmond
could shake hands on the floor of the
House, but that to bnng such an event
about there must be no idea of the coer
cion of Ulster.
It is believed in many quarters that if
an election took place at the present
time Mr. Redmond's followers would run
a serious risk of defeat at the polls.
Washington. July 25. Official an:
nouncement has been made at the White
House that negotiations have practically
been completed for the purchase ot the
Danish West Indies from IVnniark for
$25,000,000. The treaty closing the tran
saction will probably be signed to-day
and sent to the Senate.
Lying near Porto Rico, the island are
said by naval officials to possess advan
tages aa a naval base and coaling sta
tion. In the archipelago are the islands
of St. Thomas, St. Croix and St. John.
The price offered by the United States
in 1901 was $4,000,000.
Copenhagen, July 25. A treaty for the
purchase of the Danish West Indies by
the United States has been negotiated
between the government of Denmark
and the United State anil, in the near
future, is to be submitted to the Senate
and House of the United States and to
the two houses of the Danish Parliament
for approval, according to information
given your correspondent to-day in Co
penhagen bv the highest official authority.
If the treaty is ratified as it stands
in "project form to-day, the I nited
States will pay for the islands $25,000,-
000, and in addition will relinquish to
Denmark the rights of the United States
in Greenland. Greenland is a Danwh
possession, and the rights which the
United States will abandon are merely
rights of discovery, the scope of which is
ill defined.
The United States will obtain from
Denmark full possession of the islands of
St. Thomas, St. John and St. Croix, or
Santa Cruz, as it is better known. These
islands lie about 50 miles off the east
coast of Porto Rico. They are 142 square
mile in area and support a population
of 27.000 persons. Nearly all the inhabi
tants of the islands are negroes, who
live by the cultivation of cane sugar.
MRS. LENA H. BARTLETT
Died This Morning She Was Born at
South Birr.
Mrs. Lena H. Bartbtt, wile of Clarence
A. llartlett of Summer street, passed
away at the City hospital this morning
at 2 o'clock. Reside her huaband, she u
survive.! bv an infant daughter, born
July 22. lUlrt. and two brothers, Roy
Mum-hard, who is employed by diaries
Person, and Henry Blam-hard of Itir
minihum, Ala. Her mother. Mrs. Emma
It. Holt, reside in Brook fled 1. Mrs,
llartlett was ts.ru Una Blanche rd in
South Barre March 22, ISso. Most of
her life was passed in Barre and Barre
Town. Her marriage to Mr. llartlett
took place in llaire June A, 1!M1. The
deceaxed was a member of the clerk'
union and the Odd Indies. She wa an
adherent of the L'niversalist church.
FORMER BARRE MAN
George MacKenzie Died at Lowell Junc
tion, Mass.
The remains tf George MacKenzie, a
former Harre man, who died at Lowell
Junction, Mass., Saturday night alter
long illness with tubercular trouble, will
be brought to Barre late to-day and the
funeral will be held from the homo of
his brother, Jame R. MacKenzie, 45
Merchant street, the date not being defi
nitely fixed. Burial is to be in Hope
cemetery.
George MacKenzie was lmm in Aber
deen, Scotland, Jan. 12, 185!), and he
learned the granite cutter's trade there.
He came to Barre in lsKtf and spent
many rears in this city, although of late
he had been residing in Massachusetts.
He wa a member of the Masonic order.
Besides his brother in Barre, lie leaves
his wife and two daughters in OMniild
run, Scotland; two sons, George, in Fort
Elizabeth, South Africa, and Robert of
South Ryegate; and a sister, Mrs. John
Wallace of Gloucester, Mass.
SAYS WOMAN
FIRED RIFLE
AT JOE FELCH
Otis Williams' "Confession",
Presented in Orange Coun
ty C , Declares That
He .lsclf Refused to Do
V jjced But Was Stand-
Nearby When Felch
. as Shot at Sugar House
HE HELPED TO MOVE
SLAIN MAN'S BODY
VERMONT AUT0IST FINED.
Fred Russell of Windsor Was Traveling
Too Fast in Enfield, N. H.
Enfield. X. IL, July 25. Fred Rus
sell of Windsor, Vt., was fined in police
court yesterday for overspeeding his au
tomobile, having collided with a car driv
en by Miss Jennie Hall Sunday evening.
Russell's fine and costs amounted to
$37.30.
As Miss Hall was motoring on the
Lebanon road she met the Russell car
coming out of the Hanover road and an
other car coming from Lebanon. Miss
Hall had no recouse but to try to drive
on a lawn, which she would have ac
complished but for a stone post. Sev
eral members of her party were injured.
TWO PARTNERS RETIRE
And J. 0. Bilodeau Will Conduct Granite
Business Alone.
A business change affecting stonetbed
realty in the vicinity of the Harrison
Granite company's plant on Center street
became effective to-day when the manu
facturing equipment and good will of
the firm of J. O. Bilodeau fc Co. was ab
sorbed by Mr. Bilodeau, who will con
tinue in the business under his own name
alone. The retiring partners are Joseph
Movalli and Martino Rizzi. who have
lweii associated with Mr. Bilodeau for
some time.
Two circular sheds near the Harrison
plant will be used by Mr. Bilodeau in
tne luture. j wenty-nve or an men are
to be retained and the proprietor will
make a specialty of hammered and sculp
tural work. A lsioni derrick is to be
operated by electricity and a number of
modern appliances are to lie added to
the equipment. Mr. Bilodeau has a large
circle of acquaintances in the granite
trade.
Statement Declares that Mrs.
Felch Had Previously Giv
en Morphine to Her Hus
band But When that Failed
UllC VUCJCU itlUUCV LU u-
lijmo frv Hot- PolVi Huf
the WayHe Refused
TOOK TELEPHONE TOLLS
That
BODY WAS FOUND .
of Warren Hatch, Who
Drowned from Canoe.
Was
St. Johnsbury, July 25. The body of
Warren Hatch, the young agricultural
student who was drowned Sunday in the
fassurapsic river while attempting to
shoot the rapids near East Barnet in a
canoe, was recovered yesterday. Guy
Lindsay, who was with him vhen the
canoe was upset, and Henry Gammell
found the body about 15 feet below the
spot where the young man ink. The
body was recovered by means" of crap-
pier
Unscrewed Box in Pay Station at Cen
tral Vermont Station in Montpelier.
Sometime between midnight and day
break this morning a thief or thieves
walked into the Central Vermont passen
ger station at Montpelier and appropri
ated the money box attached to the tele
phone in the pay station booth. The box
was unscrewed from the 'phone. The
amount, of money secured is not known,
but probably will npt total over five dol
lurs.
The loss was discovered about 0
o'clock this morning when Curl Sawyer
of Harre went into the booth to use the
telephone and, when notified to put hi-.
change into the box, noticed it was
missing. He told the operator of the
loss and the company sent a man to the
station.
The station is left unlocked and some
body must have entered when the ticket
agent was making the trip to the post-"
office with the mail about 4 o clock.
AUTO LANDED IN RIVER.
Trio St. Johnsbury Youths Were Some
what Injured.
St. Johnsbury, July 25. In an auto
mobile accident near the U. S. fish hatch
ery yesterday, Philip Beck, 15, received
a compound fracture of the arm and
Clayton Silsby. son of C. E. Silsby. 14.
was slightly bruised. Silsby was driv
ing a lurye touring car with Heck and
FERNALD LEADS GUERNSEY
mirers of the works of James 'N'hitcomb
Riley, the Hoosier poet, passed before
the casket in which his body lay in state
in the capitol late yesterday afternoon
and early last night.
The casket was covered with three
floral designs only, while the body lay
in state. They were the state and city
emblem and one from a friend.
Brief funeral services were held at the
home at 2:10 o'clock this afternoon an!
the body placed in a receiving vault at
Crown Hill cemetery here. President
Thomas R. Marshall, John V. Kern and
and George Ade.
A large delegation from Greenfield,
Ind.. Riley boyhood borne, called at
the Riley fc.tne lat night in an end-avi
to induce the family to bare the body
buried there.
Returns from Maine's Special Primary
Indicate His Nomination.
Portland, Me., July 25. Returns from
450 out of (W5 precincts," reporting 337
out of 522 cities, towns and plantations
gave Fernald a plurality of 502 over
Guernsey at yesterday's special primary
for the Republican nomination for United
States senator to succeed the late Edwin
Burleigh. The totals were 7.881 for
Fernald and 7,21fl for Guernsey, no
change being made by a revision of the
tabulation. Mot of the missing towns
cast a light vote.
The 20 cities of the state gave Fer
nald 3,162 and Guernsey 2,118, a plural
ity of P74 for the former.
The vote was very light, being less
than one-third of that cast at the reg
ular June primaries, which was 43,000
for the Republican candidates for the
gubernatorial nomination. This is the
first tpecial primary to be held in Maine.
Kenneth C. M. Sills, dean of Bowdoin
college, was given the Democratic nam
ination without opposition.
Mr. Hatch could swim but was ham-!-,.. v , .., i.ii,r
. . . t V'll n. l' till II, urn, lur lieu iiniuiru.
pered by a crippled leg, the result of an tll,.v ,,., f,.am nnrf Hnnthpr Par ,,
(attempting to turn out, Silsby' auto- (Conversation
mobile was driven over an eight-foot
bank and landed bottom up in Sleeper's
river. Beck was the only one seriously
injured. He was tiikcn to Bright look
hospital. The car was badly damaged.
attack of infantile paralysis a number of
years ago.
STEAMER BREAKING UP
British Freighter Tyne Went Ashore Off
Bay of Fundy.
Eastport, Me., July 25. The British
freighter Tyne which went ashore in tho
fog off the Bay of Fundy is reported to !
be breaking up. The steamer was bound I
to France with timber for the construc
tion of trenches. The crew was landed
on Grand Manan with the assis
life savers.
JAMAICA GINGER SEIZED.
St.
GIVES UP PREACHING
Johnsbury Man Arrested On Charge
of Illegal Selling.
St. Johnsbury, July 25. The grocery
. " store of Joseph Pilver was searched yes-
ance ol , tero;v for jnor and several bottles of
Jamaica ginger were seized by the of-
licers. Pilver was placed tinder arrest
land released under bonds of Sfinou for his
appearance in municipal court to answer
to the charge of illegal selling.
WILSON BACKS NAVAL BILL.
Favors Immediate Building of Four
Dreadnoughts and Four Cruisers
Wahir.gton. July 25. Official word
was sent to the capital to-day that the
president stsnds behind the construrtion
program of the naval mil a it passeu
the Senate including four dreadmwght
and four battle cruisers to be built un-tncdiat'-ljr.
Rev. E. R. Currier of St, Albans Bay Is.
in Poor Health.
St. Albans, July 25. On account of
ill health, Rev. E. R, Currier has resigned
as pastor of the Methodist Episcopal
church at St. .lbans bay, where he was
sent last spring in the hope that the
change might be beneficial. Mr. Currier
has passed the work over to District Su
perintendent W. B. Dukeshire of this
city and will go with his family to New
bury.
Mr. Currier ia a member
mont conference and has been
more than ordinary ability. Rev. Mr. jJune 10 171
. " ". " . 1 .'""l'" ,s ""I1- Mi Margaret
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Bancroft and lit
tle son of Franklin street opened their
icamp at Niggerhead pond to-day.
William Olliver left last night for
Xorth Adams. Mas., where he is making
a business visit oi several aavs.
Chelsea, July 25. With the admission
as evidence of the confession alleged to
have been made by the accused and after
the introduction of four or five witnesses.
all but one of whom had been used be
fore, the firxt phase in the trial of Otis
Williams, jointly indicted with Mrs.
Anna Felch for causing the death of Jo
seph Felch at Topslmn on the night of
April 22, was completed near noon to
day when the t,tate rested. Revolutions
uncovered in one of the most absorbing
murder mysteries that has ever come to
the surface in the annals of Orange coun
ty crime reached their climax Monday
afternoon when Irving Worthlev. a ste
nographer employed by State's Attorney
Frank P. Williams, took the stand and
testified to the authenticity of a sten
ographic report of a confession of facta
alleged to have been made by the re
spondent in the county jail May 7.
Worthley's appearance in the witness
box with the manuscript, a document of
six pages, letter sheet, in his hand, was
so arranged as to take place as soon us
court convened after the cust'ii'iiry
week-end recess. The court room vas
crowded and the spectators eyed the wit
ness with a lively interest as he unfolded
the stenographic report of what the st.ite
claims is the statement made by the ac
cused of his own volition.. The admis
sion of the report ws content iotisly op
posed by the defense and a preliminary
hearing to determine whether threats or
promise of immunity had been made by
the state in order to secure the confes
sion doubtless prolonged the trial con
siderably. Judge Stanton's, decision to
admit the confession was announced "lust
before adjournment Saturday noon.
After Worthley left the stand. Sheriff
A. A. Reed, Myron ,1. Buck, a civil en
gineer, and Mary Williams, wife of the
accused, were recalled to the stand to
testify briefly. Then Miss Josep'vnci
Pero, a hired gill who was employed by .
the Felches, told her story and was on
the stand when court adjourned late in
the afternoon. She took the stand rgain
this morning when court convened at !
o'clock and before the state rested Eu
gene Williams, a brother of the respond
ent, nd his wite, .Margaret Williams,
testified.
Miss Pero was cross examined during
this forenoon but nothing of material
interest was brought out.
Eugene Williams testified to having
with his brother, Otis, in
the winter, in which Otis ottered him
$200 to kill a man; and Eugene replied
that he wouldn't do such a thing for
$10,000.
Margaret Williams, wife of Eugene,
testified to hearing a conversation at the
jail on May 7 between Otis Williams and
Mrs. Otis 'Williams, in which Otis told
his wife that she did not know it all and
that he was there but that she (name
not mentioned) was with him. At the
close of the woman's testimony the de
fense made a motion that her testimony
be stricken out of the court record be-
, i n - J j: 1 t
cause it was so lnocnnue ana uiu
connect itself closely with the case.
fames Smith of Grnton. a liveryman.
when put on the stand, told about carry
ing Otis Williams from Groton to West
1 op-bam
in November, on which occa
sion Otis tcld him ot ins intimate reia
t TOMS W ith Mrs. Felch and that he had
just come back from Boston, where Mrs.
Felch bad promised to met him but had
failed to do. He said he was coming
back to see why she had not gone to
Boston. He tol'd Smith then that be
was through working for Joe Felch.
At the clie of Mr. Smith's testimony
exhibit No. 37 was presented, it being
Joseph Rahadeau. who died at the Citr! ladv's handkerchief. Tne defense made,
of the Ver- hospital Sunday morning was 67 year's ithe request that all the statements con
n noted for 'old. He was married in Middle'burr, Icernirg the handkerchief stricken out ;
bury.
Robertson, who was
and the emrt "iicgeMed mat me snor
ter the stJte and for the defense
plied with preacher and will himself' ,' 7 . ti k ii T .t t iT i confer with the court rcrler to deter
nreaefc thee. A.rin th. .. . 1 -J:"" B"rr" h-V th d,",h f heT 1 nmnt, it wa. wished t
preach there during the greater part of
August and September.
TO DISSOLVE CHAMBER
Greek Deputies Win Go Out After Aa
gnst Election.
Miss Jessie Kotiertson, of Perrin street
has returned to her home in Rrattleboro.
Miss Josephine Riri of Comolli street,
ho is taking a vacation of two weeks
from ber duties "in the office of'Atty.
,'J. Ward Carver, left the city this fore
inoon for Concord. N. IL. for a vKit with
Athens. July 25. It was derided at ' relative. I-fre returning home .'e
the meeting of the Greek cabinet that. ' ill I the g-.iet of friends in M:;f'r :.
the chamber of deputies would be d:s-; N. H Ihirmg ber absence 1 er it-r.
solved in the August election fortT davsiMiss Mary R. Riz-iL is assisting in Atty.,
later. Carter's office.
inline ttisi ri iiiih i. - - - -'strike
out. This was done and the court
!took a reve to this afternoon.
The Confession.
Whatever significance is attached to
Wi'bam' aHe"! confession by the jury
; in judgirg t the evidence, it cannot be
pain!.! that th- st-m-nt formed re
marksb'e -rr.tnSut in to the cae and
f.rilv serve! to intfti- fy interest in U
(Continued on fonrtn rS- i
