ft
OiStuI -4 IipnpGiJ ,
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
$
.
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
. ; "
. ':
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 149
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
OK TRAINS AND KBT1
STANDS nvB OatTt
Men Were Working In Cleveland Water Works Tunnel 125
Feet Below Surface of Lake Erie-Gas Pocket Opened
Which Exploded Comrades Working Above Risk and
Some of Them Lose Lives In Heroic Efforts to Save
the Entombed Men.
Cleveland, Ohio, July 25. Twenty-three lives were
snuffed out in the new water works tunnel, it was esti
mated at 1 p. m. today, when workmen were trapped in a
gas pocket 125 feet below the surface of Lake Erie, at
9:30 last night. The gas, ignited by electrical machinery,
exploded with terrific force.
Ten bodies of the victims have been' taken from the
death hole. Rescuers estimate 13 more men are dead in
the tunnel. Ten escaped with injuries.
The ten removed were members of the three rescue
parties who descended into the death trap, although they
had no helmets.
Burrowing towards shore, a little band of workmen
125 feet below the surface of Lake Erie, broke into a
monster natural gas pocket. With tremendous force, it
swept in upon the helpless workmen, trapping them in
the ten foot concrete tube. Then came a terrific explos
ion, as the gas ignited from a spark in electrical machin
ery and the tunnel was turned into a death hole in a
twinkling. -v ......
Failure to make proper tests of gas strength and lack
of sufficient air pressure in the tube were pointed out as
contributing causes of the disaster.
It was seven hours after the accident before pulmotors
and helmets were secured. It was two hours before help
arrived. Three men taken from the tunnel died before
pulmotors-were available.-1 ? - '-.'
A triple probe by city," county and state officials . will
be held to fix the cause and responsibility for the disaster.
Officials will meet Monday with Mayor Davis to set the
time for the inqust and inquiry.
Captain Hans Hansen of the United
States life saving Btation, was the first
On the scene, but he had no helmets
or pulmotors so went back for them.
Two small boats from the ore freighter
Star of Jupiter neirt arrived, but they
had no annum tin with which to cope
with the deadly fumes. Finally word
was telephoned from shore to G. C. Van
Dusen, superintendent of tunnel work.
He gathered a gang of warkmen, seized
a tug and led the rescue work. Twelve
men went into the tunnel.
Two firemen, I.avelle and Kistcrmak
er, with gas helmets, were able to pene
trate to the main tunnel where Van
Ixiscn was found exhausted.
The body of Clarence Welsh was tak
en ottt at the same time. The firemen
wnid undoubtedly all in the tunnel were
dead.
The chamber where the men are trap-
m u IB iiiicu null ucouii a. uun o. .1 - ., , ,
Kleven of the 23 men trapped were'"'"8 fuilod to retufn- ollier r
members of a night gang working to
ward shore in the tunnel. The rest
were members of three rescue parties
which went down the crib shaft and in
to the tunnel in a desperate effort toj
drag their comrades back to safety.
Twelve hours after the accident only
eight of the rescuers had been able to
drag themselves out of the tunnel. Two
of these died Inter. -
Two of the rescuers who came out
alive were Patrick Keogh and Martin
Nelson, pulled to snfoty at 7:30 a. in.
AU Were Dead.
"Every man still in that tunnel is
dead," both declared.
If the 23 men are deud, the tragedy,
tiic greatest in the history of Cleveland
Th' hardest thing t' stop is a tem
porary chairman. Th' feller that leads
tu' perade alius has t' borrow a hat.
water works development, will be laid
partly at the door of unpreparedness.
There were no gas helmets, no pul
motors, no physicians at crib No. 5.
The crib had no communication what
ever with the shore.
At 8:30 p. m. George Ellis, operator
of the crib elevator, smelled gas and
noticed the guage on the compressed
air tank bobbing up and down.
Ellis woke John Johnson, night super
intendent at crib jno. s,
Something is wrong in the tunnol,".
Ellis shouted.
Johnson was up instantly remember
ing werkmen had struck a pocket of
gns Saturday which 'forced them to quit
work until Monday.
"Come on, boys, we got to go down
for them," yelled Johnson.
Several volunteers shot down the crib
elevator with Johnson. When the res-
(Continued oa Page Three.)
Fighting Flies and Pests
Instead of Mexican Army
Is Work of
By William Or. Shepherd
(United Press staff correspondent)
Brownsville, Texa, July 23. Good
bye to the good old style or lime whit
ened army camps.
The use of lime was stopped in all
enmps this morning by orders which
Major Bispham, sanitniy inspector for
tne army of the laower Kio
issued Mandav night.
Grande,
"Wo've discovered that flies like
white color," said tin major. "What
we are looking foe is something black
in the way of a disinfectant. The lat
est idea is lampblack mixed with petro
leum. "
At t"ie request of Major Bisphnm, I
accompanied him on a trip of inflec
tion, covering in part some ground , the major of a giant sergeant, who was
gone over by Gen. Iiliss a week ago. superintending the digging of a hole
"We want Americans to know the near to the camp kitchen,
exact health and sanitary conditions j "Digging a cesspool," replied the
here." said Bispham. "Manv wild'nerireant.
stories are being sent out about illness
among the men. All are untrue.
me sanitary department or tue
American army ran promise the Anier
loan people that there is no repetition
of the horrors of 1S9S. We are ready
for anything. Relatives of the soldiers
back home mav rest easy and not worry."
ine correspondent saw- many ua-icers in the Iowa regiment had been in
screened kitchens in the Virginia audi the Spanish-American war, during
Illinois regiments. which cesspools killed thousands.
"We can't have screens until we So reflections on the Iowans."
get wooden kitchens," said Bispham.! said Bispham. "The militia is all the
"There is no lumber here, but it is be-! same. They don't know the latest de
iug rushed on ears- attached to f at velopmente in sanitation, and we must
passenger trains. jkeep constant vigil.
"Look here," Bispham pointed to a "The health of t'.ic men is excel
ditch in the Virginia ramp. "Goes notlent. '
The Ram Beat Matty
to the Polo Grounds
New York, July 25. Christy Ma
theweon was routed on the first day of
his appearance in Ne.v York as n base
ball enemy today by the weather
man.
What had been looked forward to
as one of the biggest days of the year
at the polo grounds when Matty should
appear on his old homu grounds for the
first time as manager of the Cincinna
ti Beds and Buck Herzog would again
play as a Giant, was a dark, dripping
affair that madj a game impossible.
A Bteady rain fell from early morning
on and all ceremonies were postponed
until tomorrow.
CLAIMS DECISION
KNOCKS OUT DRY LAW
Judge Morrow Holds Clause
of Law Violates Federal
Constitution
Portland, Or., July 25. Aa opinion
rendered today by Circuit Judge Mor
how, should it be sustained by the high
courts, strikes a severe blow at the.
Oregon "dry" law, in the opinion of
the district attorney. -
tn overruling the demurrer to the
complaint in tho suit of Wadhanis and
company, against the San - Francisco
and Portland Steamship company,
Judge Morrow holds that the provision
in the prohibition law limiting to
wholesale druggists the right to import
alcohol in large quantities la in viola
tion of the interstate commerce clause
of the federal constitution. ITe holds
that any genuine manufacturer may
import as much alcohol as he desires
for his own use.
Judge Morrow pointed out that while
his decision might result in many
pseudo manufacturing plants springing
up, 'it would be the district attorney's
duty to prevent such institutions from
becoming "blind pigs.J
Arthur Murphy, deputy district at
torney, said:
"If the courts hold that it is uncon
stitutional to prohibit a manufacturer
from importing alcohol but permit hira
to use alcohol, then the provision which
prohibits a man from buying more than
two quarts of whiskey but permits
him to possess whiskey must be un
constitutional, too. So there will be
nothing left of the law."
Aked Resigns from
Peace Delegation
Detroit, Mich., July 25. Charles P.
Aked, of San Francisco, has resigned
as chairman of the neutral peace con
ferenee in Stock hot in. which was PHtah.
lished as an outgrowth of the Ford
pence expedition last year,
UT. Alton mauo tins announcement
fcere this afternoon following a long
talk with Henry Ford, promulgator of
the peace voyage and backer of the
present conference. He gave as Jiis
only reason for withdrawing that he and
Ford were unable to agree on a policy
for the future guidance of the confer
ence. "I nm through with the peace expedi
tion," the doctor said.
Medical Corps
that prove lioio is useless look at the
tlies feeding in that lime wiliiened
ditch.
" F.ies are the best sanitary inspec
tors in the world. They always find
filth and they are proving to us now
that lime does not disinfect.
"The ideas of niauv incoinine guard
j companies are very old fashioned in
reliant to salutation. '
In proof of this, Bispham drove bis
, automobile to the camp where the
: First Iowa had .just arrived. Thousands
,o- huge youths wero cutting down enc
itus and greasewood. to the music of a
giant chorus of Texas locusts driven
I from their homes in the falling trees.
"What are you doin; theref " asked
"please discontinue that work and
bring the medical officer here," said
Ilispbam.
Major W. 8. Conklln of Des Moines
answered.
"No cesspools, please," directed
Bispiiam. "Build incinerators and
burn the refuse."
it developed later that many offl
IRISH QUESTION
I
Refusal to Introduce Home
Rule Bill Until Irish Agree,
... ; Started It
LONDON NEWSPAPERS
TAKE GLOOMY VIEW OF IT
''Sympathy of America Is
Lost, Dominion Sentiment
Against Us"
London, July 25. The coalition cab
inet was endangered today by the Irish
question. David Lloyd George, minister
of wit and originator of the compro
mise plan for settlement of the Irish
question problem,' was quoted as having
offered to resign in view of the fail
ure of the cabinet to acquiesce in his
proposals to the Irish nationalists.
Premier Asquiru was uuucrmouu iu
be ready also to step down if Lloyd
George retired. Threat to submit the
Question to a vote of the people in a
general election was freely made dur
ing the conimans aeoaie.
The only hope ; of averting such a
break lay in the chance that tho Irish
nationalists would consent, to further
negotiations. , With John Hedmond, the
oartv's leador and his followers hurling
charges of breach of faith at the minis
try, it was aammea mis nop w
faint one. Some London newspapers
ES CRISIS
ENGLISH
CABINET
today expressed, the belief, however, Euroean power acquiring them and es
that if the break came and a (fen?ltahlishlnff a naval base near the Pan-
election were called, ,t would result in ama cana, NeKotiation, fcave: been on
support the cabientj. course '"S'u'd off for some years. It is under
tional.sts -having losV eonfidencr of stood now th 8(ntiment , the D8nisb
Tn.hiHa'lkmilllk thftlT Wlilinflr I .. . . .. . "
many Irishmen- through: their- willing
ness to treat Hi a compromise pian. oucu
a victory for the cabinet, would, how
ever, it was pointed out, still leave the
Irish question suspended. . ,
. - Bedmond Threatens.
The situation today was that the cab
inet confessed its purpose not to intro
duce a home rule amending bill until
there was a complete agreement : among
nationalists to endeavor to obtain such
An Agreement,
Retention in parliament i
of the nationalists representation in nn-
diminished numbers was tue main point
which prevented agreement in the cab-
inet on the bill and among tho various
Irish parties.
One other point which gave anxiety
was tho open threat voiced by John
Redmond in the CommonB debnte that,
the Irish members held themselves free
to exercise their individual judgment j
in criticising the government's course,
I nt mi!,? in ImiiPHtie Affairs, but in the
conduct of the war. It was admitted
that if the Irish doliberately seek, as
this threat indicates, to air British con
duct' of the war on the floor, they may
seriously embnrrns British success in
the present great offensive.
Makes Leaders Uneasy.
Evidencing the crucial nature of the
situation. Premier Asquith today con
ferred with A. J. Balfour, first lord of
the admiralty, conservative leader Bo
nnr Law, minister of war Lloyd George
and Austen Chamberlain, secretary of
state for India, and later had a confer
ence1 with the king.
London newspaper editorials took a
gloomy view of the crisis.
"It' is humiliating to us in the face
of our friends and our foes at a time
when we claim to be fiuhting the bat
tle of the small nationality," the Dnily
News declared. "It means that the
sympathy of America is lost to us, nnir,, o Hnn FrullciSCo's dynnmito out
that the whole sentiment of the domin-
inn. im nirniliflt 1IM."
"Vnw u have the old stone tied
once more rouna our necK in a neavieri
and more dangerous shape than ever," i
.:.! .l,A nn!U- Talniminli Wa alinll Ha
fortunate if 'it does not hamper our
progress at every step through the deep
L... .... .i.:i. i.., . v.. ......i
Hail IU " llH.ll umc J I lu mw nu.viniu
GOOD BYE, JIM
Indianapolis, Ind., July 25.
Lockerbie street todav ssw the
passing of - James Whitcomb
Kiley. At z:iiu p. m. tne private
funeral of the people's poet waa
to be held in striking contrast
with the overwhelming tribute
paid him last night in the state
house.
That Hooslers lovw Hiley was
demonstrated when 3"i,000 men,
women and children passed be
fore his bier last night.
The bard's body will be
placed in a vault at Crown
Hill cemetery. Plans are al
ready under way to make the
quiet home on Lockerbie street
a memorial and to erect a state
ly edifice at Crown Hill.
It is said that in these latter years
the automobile horn is a much more
effective instrument in a serenade than
tne oiu rasnioneu manaoun.
EPIDEMIC INCREASE3.
New York, July 25. Another
decided increase in the number
of new infantile paralysis cases
reported was followed today by
' a drati! movement by govern
ment authorities which mean
the barring of children under 15
years from leaviug New York
shate. Beports to the health
department up to 10 a. m. today
accounted for 150 new cases of
the disease, against 89 reported
yesterday. Only dn one day
July 11, when 155 cases were re
ported has today's record been
exceeded. Thirty-eight deaths
were reported as against 31 yes
terday. The total number of
cases since the epidemic appear
ed is now 3,0(18. There have .
been 617 deaths.
OANISHWEST INDIES
Purchase Will Prevent Others
Getting Naval Base Near
Canal
Washington,' July ' .Negotiations
for the purchase of the Danish West
Indies by the United States will prob
ably be closed today. . Consideration is
approximately $25,000,000, it was of
fcially stated at the White House.' The
negotiations have been carried on by
the state department , and the Danish
foreign office.
The treaty probably will be signed to
day and submitted at once to the Unit
ed States senate and the Danish parlia
ment for approval.-
The inlands are of the most strategic
value to the United States, Their ac
quisition will eliminate danger of any
DarKaraena favors the purchase..
The Danish West Indies Comprise the
islands of St. Thomas, St. John and St.
Croix, a group of the Lesser Antilles,
The- area is 180 tsquare miles and the
population approximately .10,000.
' It is understood the United States
as a part of the deal, relinquishes any
"rights by discovery" to certain parts
of fi. , DaniHh possession.
$280,000,000 AEMT BILL
Washington, July 25 The last
of the great ' ' preparedness ' '
army bill, apparently was near
passage in the senate toduy.
Chairman Chamberlain had push
ed his measure tho largest of
its kind the United States has
known close to a final voto in
three days consideration.
Though nearly 140,000,000 has
been knocked off the original
senate committee draft, the bill
still carried 10(),000,0(IO more
thnu the house measure.
Another Victim of Bomb
Outrage Died This Morning
Anarchists
Sinn Frnncisco. Jul V 25
The death
rage was swelled to seven today when
i Contain Reuben Vaughan, of this city.
succumoeu ni tne un munur
hospital of injuries received when the
infnritnl mneliine PYllloded. He Wa-S tirO-
grossing favorably, with a mangled
! right leg, when complications set in
... i.. .mi,.l
i U 1 1 1 1 in; .. -vm. . I , ,
I The presence in Han Francisco of at! Arthur Crane, powder expert for the
least two men declared to have figured Hercules l'owder company, this after-
in eastern bomb plots was Indicated in 'noun made tho following report to I up-
telegrams sent ont today by Captain
Mathcson. head of the special bomb
sniiad. China of Police of Pittsburg,
Philadelphia, New York and Boston
wero asked to send descriptions and pho-
jtographs of every knowu Nihilist, fan
atic and bomb suspects.
Anarchists will Ala.
nA iintminnmAnt in the I nvpit icf at inn
today was the announcement by mcra -
" . . i
bers of radical and anarchistic rcgan-
izatinns of their intention to aid in the
inquiry. They ile.-lnrert the dynamiting
cads suspicion, nn their activities and
injures their cause. on.
'Descriptions of two new suspects Orders were given to a squad of of
,.i,a.ii !., n, n Immly nf the iiollep i fleers to iret all nossible information re-
today. Hamuel Weeks, a street car; garding the recent activities of anarch
conductor, reported that two men bonrd-j istic, I. W. W., Nihilistic and similar
ed his car about 12:45 p. m. Saturday organizations in the city, to bring re-
at Fourth and Market streets. Une
carried an old suit case and both left
the ear not for from Stuart and Mar
ket streets, where the explosion occur
red. He gave the police a good descrip
tion of the men.
The presence of ghouls at the scene of
e exnlosion became known today
the explosion became
when tho police were informed of the
TEUTONS UH
No Large Gains Anywhere But All Are In Favor of Allies
Armies In Two Stretches of Five Miles Each Locked la
Death Grip Tremendous. Artillery Duel Is Feature cf
Last Two Days' Fighting Russians Advancing Steadily
in the Caucasus ,' . v ... ' ,
By Ed L. Keen,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
London, July 25. On nearly every front it appeared
today from official statements of all belligerent nations'
war offices, the Teutonic allies at some spot or another
were compelled to give ground in the face of a general
offensive movement.
No large gains were reported anywhere. It was ap
parent from the statements that on two stretches of about
five miles each on the Flanders battle front the armies of
the allies and the Teutonic forces were locked in bitter
death grips. Berlin reported unsuccessful "resolute at
tacks" by the British around Pozieres. General Haig de-
taiinrl nniintor ntrnrlra in f hp enmp SPt.fir addinp" that the
llttUVU WMAAW. vvw " ww - " - , O
enemy had failed to reach his trenches. From all reports
it is apparent the deadlock at Pozieres where each side
holds half the town, is still, continuing and presumably
-1 l-U 4-n UnviJ fln-Vi Srirv in fhn UTAAfla n Art H nf
iiliiV UlC IlttllU iiailU llgllbiug 111 ' nvvuo v-
Longueval. . ' '
The second stretch where fighting is apparently of the
most violent character, lies between Fries and Soyecourt
where, judging from the French and German statements,
a bitter artillery duel interspersed with infantry attacks,
is proceeding. It is in this sector that the Germans admit
that the. French have "temporarily" gained ground south
of Estrees. . 1 ' -
Full admission in the,German statement that (GeneraI
Sakharoffs Russian forces have penetated the first Ger
man lines south of Beresteczko confirmed previous Rus
sian claims of the progress of the enveloping movement
around Brody, on the way , to ; Lemberg. Petrograd
claimed further gains by these same forces. It also re
ported additional gains by the Grand Duke Nicholas, in
the Causcasus against the Turks. :
The Italian statement of today claimed capture of
M mint n.mone. highest Deak in the Northern Appenines,
which must have been an engineering as well as a mili
tary feat. :
Terrific Artillery Duel
. London, July 25. The British thrust
of today in France was a hurling for
ward of un iuferno of flame, steel and
shot along a five mile front from
Tuicpval to Longuovnl. At only three
uiiiitu In this st retch was there con
tact of men at Delville, High Woods
ami l'o.iores. The last nnmed village
which is divided by the niiiin highway
from Albert to Baiwiume itself housed
British and Germans. Ever since Hun
dav morning the two forces have grup-
Aid in Search
disappearance of 200 worth jewelry
I from the person or Mrs. ramtj
' I on w, U nxur nenr death at Adler
BBnuarium. Two rinRs and a locket
were declared to be missing.
William Turnbull, another
victim,
was reported to be in a very critical
condition today, while Miss l'carl Za-
, man, who was badly injured, is improv-
lug and win proimuiy r..r,
Cannot Trace Bomb.
tuin fntlieiinn
"It was undoubtedly a time bomb.
The two copper bands found were very
probably tied to the ciock anu wnen
the time for explosion arrived an elec
tric mechanism set off a gelatin-glycer
ine composition. This cuu be easily
secured and where it came from would
i lie An ftltnost imooSrtihlc task to trace.
lt can be made from dynamite and hot
I . ni ... ... -liAaH anil
water,
1 ne BUIl CIC " i
up
He was unable to find any clue that
would give, the police a lead to work
ports or me prenenmrma aim i.
ture of literature circulated before and
ince Saturday's trnacdv.
Members of the irrand jury have
been instructed to keep in touch with
the district attorney's office. While no
immediate assembling of the body may
be necessary, it was thought advisable
to have them ready to act.
pled hand to hand in depernt combat.
The wide street whicn stretches out
iu the town's suburbs to join the B
paume highway is No Man 'a Land. It
was swept by a rain of machine gun
bullets from both sides, xvow anu men.
the deluge stopped . momentarily, as
forces from one side or the other
charged. Then it was bayonet to bay
onet. At last, reporis it armtu i
the Anzacs sturdy Colo iia-la tested in.
the hln.inir heat of Gallipoii were
Blowly but surely wresting au advant-f
aK1'- . . . . . . '
None the less desperate were xnm
struggles for supremacy m the two
forests of llelville and tugnwooun.
The forests themselves were gone, ire
tilie lenfy foliage nothing remained.
Shot and shell and nana grenades iuvl
stripped tne trees iuto gaunt iirts
blackened poles or laid them low on
the ground in inextricable confusion.
Behind these barrier of log the Ger
man and British fought desperately.
There was no diminution in the ar
tillery fire which Gen. Haig has now
been pouring ceaselessly into the Ger
man lilies since Friday. On. tho other
hand, the Germans pounded away with,
explosive shells, gas siielts, shrapnel
u ml machine gun fire.
French Made Gains
iurl .lnlv 25. Another . advanee
of French troops was reported in to
day s official statement. iney v"
rie'd "strongly fortified block houses'
south of Bstrees and ejected the Ger
mans from trenches they occupied near
bv. (mirr attacks elsewhere aJoujr
the French front by tho Germans wero
repulsed.
North of Ovillers the Germans were
thrown out of some trenches thoy had
occupied.
On tne leit ubiik ui mo .1.0.
(Continued on Pag' T'
' . . :
THE WEATHER :Z
.
I'M 60!NS
To THE Bin
Oregon: To
night' nd Wed
nesday, general
ly lair; north
westerly wind.
1
I
rl tl f T 1 1 Liila
