' 1916
WW.
14 PAGES 98 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
VOL. LVIlh NO. 307
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN- FRIDAY, - DECEMBER 22, 1916
The Bulletin's Circulation :. in - Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
TIMAT THAT U. S. MAY
Dobrudja Reverses
for Teutonic Allies
Bill for Universal
Condensed Telegrams
The House approved the continuation
Exciting Day in
iltary Training
of the Sub-Treasury at Baltimore.
the Stock Market
All the canals and locks at Sault Ste
Marie, Mich, .were closed for the
winter.
DRIVEN FROM HEIGHTS IN RE
GION OF BALABANICA.
WILL BE LAID BEFORE CONGRESS
Judae W. W. Lambdin of the United
THE DAY'S SALES AGGREGATED
States District Court at Savannah, Ga
la dead. -
NEXT MONTH.
3,176,000 SHARES.
i i ri 11 i i i i f it ii i i 1 1
NO
E FORCED TO ENTER WAR
Misconstructions Placed On Oral Statement Yester
day Caused Alarm
NO CHANGE IN NEUTRALITY OF UNITED STATES
After Conference With President Wilson, Secretary Lansing
Issued a Second Statement to Correct Impressions Made
by Oral Remarks Notes Were Sent to Belligerent Na
tions to Impress Upon Them the Fact That the United
States, as a Neutral Nation, Was Entitled to Know Ex
actly What Each Belligerent Seeks in Order That It
Might Regulate Its Conduct for the Future Entente Dip
lomats Confident There Was No Hidden Meaning in the
Notes.
Washington, Dec M. President
Wilson's note to the belligerents, urg
ing discussion of peace, was officially
Interpreted today as not bearing any
threat that the United States might
be forced to enter the war, because
o fthe continued invasion of its rights
by the warring powers- on both sides.
This interpretation was made ' late
today by Secretary Lansing in a for
mal statement issued to overtake what
were characterized as widespread mis
constructions placed on one given out
earlier in the day saying that because
of the increasingly critical position of
the United States as a neutral, it was
entitled to know exactly what each
belligerent seeks in order that it might
regulate its conduct for the future.
Secretary Lansing's final statement,
formally prepared and issued after he
had been called to the White House
for a conference with President Wil
son, declared he had not intended to
intimate that the United States was
considering any change in its policy
of neutrality and that the whole tcue
and language of the note were suffi
cient to indicate its purpose without
further comment on his part,
Mr. Lansing's first statement;, made
orally and of which- no official copy
was distributed, led "to exaggerations
of its language and putpose through
out official Washington. Its y most
striking phrases on which the widest
speculation was based were that the
I'nited States was "drawing nearer
the verge of war" and that the send
ing of the note "will indicate the pos
sibility of our being forced into the
war," and that neither ha nor Presi
dent Wilson regarded the note "as a
peace note."
Cabled Paragraphs
Danish Upper House Approves Sale of
Islands.
Copenhagen Dec. 2L via London,
7.15 p. m. Both houses of the Dan
ish parliament have now approved the
sale of the Danish West Indies to the
United States. The Landsthing, or
upper house, voted favorably upon the
proposition today, 40 to i. xne Dili
for ratification of the treaty providing
for the sale was adopted by the Fol-
kething yesterday.
Grahame-White Marries Again.
London, Dec. 21. 5.53 p. m. Flight
Commander Claude Grahame-White
was married at the registry office to
day to Ethel Levey, the actress.
Commander Grahame-Whlte's first
wife, who was Miss Dorothy Taylor of
New York, obtained a divorce in Lon
don last June. Ethel Levey formerly
was the wife of George M. Cohen of
New York. Their marriage was dis
solved in 1907.
RUSSO-RUMANIANS HALT
In Rumania Proper the Teutons Are
Advancing Along Both Sides of the
Insu-Racovitzeri Road, But Are En
countering Stiff Resistance.
ORGANIZING COOPERATIVE
PURCHASING SOCIETIES
When word of what the secretary
of state had said spread throughout
the capital, it created the greatest
consternation in official circles and
among the foreign diplomats, many of
whom were calling at the state depart
ment to receive their co-pies of the
note despatched to their capitals.
It became that the secretary's
statement was not fully approved at
the White House and that there was
question as to the wisdom of making
any comment that might be regarded
as an addition to the note. The White
House was concerned lest any word
reach the foreign capitals to be con
strued as indicating that the Ameri
can note was anything but what it
Indicated on its face. So, after a con
ference between President Wilson and
Secretary Lansing, the second state
ment was formally prepared and dis
tributed at the state department.
Entente diplomats, at first at an ut
ter loss how to handle the unexpected
situation, became convinced that a
clearer understanding of the necessi
ties and purposes of the.Unitad States
proved that their fear of a more fa
vorable to Germany was not contem
plated, and that this country would not'
try to force peace on Europe. - Their
vie crew that -ther United States fear
ed that unless th'ineace-proTOsais gd"1
through now, a period or rutniessness
and retaliation mav set in both sides
which will inevitably force this coun
try into action.
- It is indicated, therefore, that the
allied diplomats will advise their gov
ernments to view the note in a friend
ly spirit and go as far as possible to
ward meeting the wishes of the Unit
ed States.
GREAT REBOUND MADE
IN PRICE OF WHEAT
Caused by Sudden Demand on a Vast
Scale to Supply Europe.
Chicago, Dec. 21. Notwithstanding
almost panicky selling and a seven
cent break in wheat prices today, the
market made a greater rebound, and
closed strong . with " substantial net
gains. Sudden merchandising demand
on a vast scale to supply Europe with
cheap wheat developed when prices
tumbled sensationally downgrade. The
ensuing big rally came with such sru
prislng force that wheat at the last
parted company with the stock market
and traders temporarily ignored even
the moves at Washington and else
where In regard to paece.
At the opning unlimited quantities
of wheat were thrown on the market
the instant trading began and values
crashed downward until in a few min
utes the maximum decline had been
reached. It was not long, though, be,
fore the fact was apparent that, how
ever important diplomacy might be,
the question of foodstuff prices was in
a large measure distinct.
Signs that European governments
were buying wheat on a scale not sur
passed in man yweeks, especially the
latest estimates that sales to Europe
aggregated 2,000,000 bushels or more,
fit the highest prices, in weeks from
across the Atlantic, started the up
ward movement of prices.
Last pricse were at virtually ,the
topmost level of the day.
Municipal Employes of New York to
the Number of 87,000.
New York, Dec. 21. Municipal em
cloves of New York, numbering alto
gether more than 87,000, have engaged
in a concerted movement to reduce the
cost of living by organizing cooperative
purchasing societies in tne various ae
Dartments. it became known tonight.
So successful have been first at
tempts to cut the cost of food Dy buy
ing in bulk and distributing them at
iwiees far below those paid by the
general public,' that recognition has
been given the movement by the city
eovernment. The sinking iuna com
mission today gave permission to the
employes conference committee, as the
organiaztion is called, to use a room in
the municipal building as headquarters
for the purchase of rood, doming ana
other supplies. "
The Credit Union of the employes
conference committee recently was in
corporated to encourage saving. Sav
ings can be deposited with the organ
ization and loans obtained at a rate not
exeeding one per cent, a month.
JURY OUT IN THE
TEIPER MURDER TRIAL-
NO TESTIMONY OFFERED
BY HARTFORD UNIONS
In Defense of Suit for $25,000 Damages
for Conspiracy.
Hartford, Dec. 21. The defending
unions offered no testimony at the op
ening of court in the suit of the Cohn
and Routh Electrical company against
the Bricklayers union, the Uilectneal
Workers union and six other building
trades unions, asking for $25,000 dam
ages for conspiracy and an injunction,
arguments were begun. Trial of the
case opened nerore juage m. a. num
u v Wednesday. In his opening .xr-
gument, Ralph O. Wells, of cousel for
the plaintiff, announced that it waiv
ed all claim for damages .and would
ask for the injunction only.
HIGH PRICE OF COAL NOT
RESULT OF MANIPULATION
G. W. Anderson, Federal District At
torneys at Boston, So Reports.
New York, Dec. 21. That there are
no grounds for the suspicion that' the
recent increase in the price of coal was
the result of an "artificial and illegal
combination," was the statement made
here today by George W. Anderson,
federal district attorney at Boston,
who is in charge of the governments
national food and fuel inquiry.
Mr. Anderson came here to confer
with Special United States Attorney
General Frank M. Swacker, in charge
of the federal grand jury investiga
tion in this city after having had sim
ilar conferences with the federal and
local authorities in Washington, Phil
adelphia, Cleveland and Chicago.
"When there are indication mat tne
movement of coal has been checked
not only on railroads but at terminals,"
Mr. Anderson said, "tnere is reason to
suspect that such action probably is
the result of an artificial and illegal
combination designed to reap extor
tionate profits through a speculative
market.
"When you find coal brokers and
coal dealers re-consigning coal cars
over and over again so as to delay de
livery and thereby create a panic you
find a prima facie case.
Such a condition is similar to tnat
recently called by David Lloyd George
'profiting.'
Boston. Mr. Anderson said, turning
to the food situation, ."is tne oniy ity
at present suffering. It even has a
shortage of its favorite foodstuff
beans which are now selling at seven
dolars a bushel."
Mr. Anderson said that the depart
ments of agriculture, commerce and
fisheries, as well as the Interstate
Commerce Commission are co-operat
ing in the investigation.
LINEMAN KILLED; DIDN'T
KNOW CURRENT WAS ON
Out All Day Without . AgreemenV
l ' '. Locked Up for the Night,
- Buffalo. N- Y., Dec. 21. At midnlgst
tonight the jury in- the case of John.
Edward Teiper. charged with tne mar
der of his mother, had not ag'ejj
upon a verdict. At that time the jurors
had had the case under consideration
for more than 12 hours.
Justice Wheeler waited at his homt
ready to come to court at any time
during the night in the event of a
verdict being reached. Tener, sur
sounded by members ' of his family,
waited in the office of the Erie cojitv
Jail.
At 12.15 this morning the jury in the
trial of John Edward Teiper, charg
ed with the murder of his mother,
was locked up for the night.
HAD SPURIOUS CHECKS
AND TEN BANKBOOKS
Addison W. Clark Arrested at Hart
ford For Trying to Buy Auto Under
False Pretentions. '
OPPOSITION TO $28,000,000
OMNIBUS BUILDINGS BILL
From Executive Heads of the Govern
ment Chairman Clark So Reports.
Washington, Dec. 21. Chairman
Clark of the public buildings commit
tee charged in a speech in the house
today that executive heads of the gov
rmment were opposing the commit
tee's $28,000,000 omnibus .buildings bill
because of a desire "to take the au
thorization of buildings away from
congress and pass it to bureaucrats in
the deDartments." He declared cer
tain representatives also were hoping
to defeat the -bill and then put through
en emergency appropriations for build
Ings in larger cities without making
corresponding provision for the small-
' er; communities. The measure will be
pressed for passage alter the Christ
Hartford, Conn., Dec. 21. When Ad
dison W. Clark was arrested here late
tonight, charged with attempting to
purchase an automobile under falst
pretences, the police found ten bank
books in his possession and a large
number of stocks and bonds, said to
e valued at thousanads of dollars.
He tried to buy an automobile from a
local dealer and presented a check on
a Los Angeles bank for $1,200. In
resnonse to a telegraphic inquiry, the
The pence say the man appears to
bank said the check was worthless.
be demented an dapparently has been
brooding over financial losses. But
little is .known of him here. He
came to ' Hartford a few months ago
from Gilboa. N. Y.
Many of the bank books show an-
parent accounts m western states. The
police say the aggregate apparent de
posits in these banks are in the
neighborhood of $1,000,000.
Clark claims to be a memoer or the
American Legion- and the Army and
Navy Leagues.
Everett Carter of Berlin Came in Con
tact With High Tension Wire.
Berlin. Conn.. Dec. 21. Everett Cart
er, a lineman in the employ of the
Connecticut company was killed last
night while at work in East Berlin by
contact with a high tension wire. The
current, it was stated to the authori
ties, had been shut off as is tne cus
torn while the men were at work, but
one of them thinking the job had been
completed, telephoned to the power
house to that effect and the current
was turned on again with the result
that Carter was shocked to death. His
home was here.
OBITUARY. ,
Imri M. Wilcox.
Hartford, Conn., Dec. 21. Jmri M
Wilcox, i ok more than 25 years cash
ier of thcllAetna Life Insurance com
pany, died? ' at his home here late to
night, aged 68. He had ibeen in ill
health for two years. His wife and
five children Burvive.
Charles C; Gray,
Providence. R. I., Dec. 21. Charles
C. Gray, state auditor and insurance
commissioner, died - here today. He
was 7ft years of age and served with a
Rhode Island command in tne Civil
war. v - . "'-.V'
In the Dobrudja region of Rumania.,
Where the Russo-Rumanian forces
have turned upon the invaders, the
Teutonic allies have been driven -from
heights in the region of Balabanica
and, Dachkoi, and the Russians and
Rumanians are now disputing witn
them in a violent battle the possession
of other positions along this line. In
Rumania proper the Teutons are ad
vancing along both sides of the Insu
Racovitzeri road, but are meeting with
steady resistance from the. Russians
and Rumanians. Along the Pi.'lita-
Stankuca front the Teutonic allies hiiva
pushed back the advance guard of the
defenders.
Except for the battles in Rumania,
In the Carpathians southeast of the
Kimpolung-Jacobeni - railway, wner?
where the Russians have captured sev
eral heights, and at various points on
the Russian front, where attacks by
the Russians have been repulsed bv
the Germans, little infantry activity is
being displayed.
Artillery Duels in France.
The artillery duels have been spirit
ed at various points along the French
front. Berlin reports a rail by Ger
mans on British trenches and the eap
ture of four officers and twenty-sis
men. In another raid British trooi.'
entered German trenches near A-ras,
but later were ejected. On the Ver
dun sector, where the French mirte a
notable advance last week, the Cer
mans have violently bombarded the
Louvemont-Vaux front.
Snow and rain are falling in Mace
donia, "and aside from an engagemen
In the jerna river bend region, no
infantry fighting has taken place. On
this sector Berlin reports that the
Teutonic allies have, held heights east
or .faralovo against strong Russian at
tacks.
In Mesopotamia the British reoort
successful bombardments of Tii.-K'sh
river craft and land positions ii the
region of Kut-el-Amara.
The Federal Oil Co. of Cleveland In-
. - T . . 1 A oaa e tJ
4 , i crease a its capital lruui o,aww,uw w
WITH ESTIMATE OF COST m.400,000.
The battleships New York and Tex
as of the North Atlantic fleet, arrived
Representative Tilson in Accord With at New York.
Consensus of Opinion That a Great- I President Wilson called at the resl-
. A . dence of Senator John Sharp Williams
ly increased, ncgumr rmjr is ntc- I of Mississippi.
essary tor uerense or nation. The Hunter Arms Co- Inc. of Fulton
N. Y., increased its capital from $150,
000 to "500,000.
WocWnirtnn TW 9fl A Aa.ftnt I
Din.n for uni " mintarv trainimr Fire destroyed the J. P. Allen de-
will be laid before congress next partment store at Atlanta. Ga., at a
month in the shape of a bill formu- lua oi w,vuw.
aecomnatiied bv comalete estimates tt I Two hundred workmen in men's
of cost as compared to the present clothing manufactories at Vineland, N,
volunteer system. Major General Hugh went on Birmo.
militarv' committee today that the I " The 13th Coast Defense Command
work was m progress and would re- I uotsiBuaicu us i iur uuy.
quire about a month to complete. I " mumm on lnausuraugn uaj
Chairman Dent said the committee I
would be glad to sea the bill. Fire destroyed Elevator B. of the
In response to a laughing question Nye-Schneider Grain Co, at Fremont,
as to who would introduce it In the inod., at a loss oi aDout ouu,uuv.
hrtu.Qf TinrejTitati v ICatm nf 'i, li - I
f:rn ,;1 said: I The Department of Commerce re-
"And I would be glad to have the ports the exports of cotton for the
honor to introduce it." I week ended December 16, at 180,655
Gen. Scott Sharply Cross-examined. bales-
Lreneral sscott was subjected to snarp A biH pPOVjding for imprisonment of
u " those found guilty or cornering food
stuffs was offered by Senator Poin-
sal service measure, based in part on I ,jexter.
results uj. Lilt: i un LttM system as
snown m tne moDinzation or tne na- The Norweaian rteamship Juno,
tln1 g"ard fo5 border service. Five wbicll grounded on Beach Haven. N
oi tne memoers oi commitieB j New York from Cardiff, Wales, was
:i: , rrrr :r:v, I floated
two einunaiicaiiy aewareu againsi il . o vmnnn
SiSSKi MESS? ZSt ced troZlZ
"C. "r V V"",-"tt " the Assay Office for the account of J
publicans, and Olney of Massachusetts I c' JiorBd-Ii -"
and Farley or New Jfork, democrats,
while those opposed were Hepresenta
(Continued on Page Ten.)
Miss Adelaide Hamilton, the blind
granddaughter of Alexander Hamilton
American statesman, left an estate
valued at $720,478.
ANOTHER HORSE SHIP
SUNK WITH NO AMERICANS.
The St. Ursula, Bound from Saloniki
to Montreal.
GERMANY'S OFFER DISCUSSED
IN HOUSE OF COMMONS
Andrew Bonar Law Speaks in Praise
. .1 of .Lloyd George's Answer.
-: London, Dec:. 21, 9.51 p. m. There
was further discussion of Germany's
peace offer in the house of commons
tonight. Sir John A. Simon, in he
half of himself and a group of follow
ers, gave unqualified support to TJrem-
ler Lloyd George's speech in the house
of commons and then Hastings B. L.
Smith, liberal member. for Northamp
ton, in military uniform, sounded a
new note urging that the German
proposals be allowed to see the light
of day. Andrew Bonar Law, chan
cellor of the evchepuer and member
of war council, promptly rose in he
half of the government and declared
that if the tone of Mr. Smith's speech
permeated the country, then all the
blood and treasurer which had been
spent in the war would have been
spent in vain.
"My understanding." said Mr. Smith
in his address "is that the reply of the
premier to the German note was to the
effect that the door was not yet clos
ed.' That is a wise answer and the
best possible answer at this stage.
The German proposals should he al
lowed to see the light of day. If they
disclose an aggressive purpose, then
the German people will realize that
they are not suffering and dying for
their mere existence, as they have
been told. lfwe were put to
a vote of the men at the front whether
provided we could obtain guaran
tees that our hoporable obligations
would be fulfilled we should then
make a serious effort to get the par
ties together, then I am certain, such
a proposition would be carried by
virtual unanimity.
"I am not prepared to face the pros
pects of a military decision, which
means a war of attrition, unless I
am convinced there is no other way
out. I believe in the security scheme
by which the nations agree together
each to guarantee all and all guarantee
each. An attempt to hold the central
empires down by a military decision,
followed by economic strangulation,
would mean carrying forward into
peace all hostilities and hatreds of the
war. It would divide Europe into
two hostile camps and would make
war more inevitable and deadly than
ever before and would fasten con
scription and militarism forever on all
nations.
LIVERPOOL POST COMMENTS I The coldest December temperature
ON PRESIDENT W.LSON'S NOTE mS4&rS
6ays Allies Will Give Him Credit for " ue5leea uclu wcl"
the Best of Intentions. Increase of all ' railway fares in
I firMt Kri t n in Kft rwir cpnt wmH rm i n IZ
Livenpool, Dec. 22, 12.25 a. m. The I. Tor. 1 w smiuiiinml bv th FSnaj-d nf
x-usi. icia uus lu xiraiuciu w iiuu a i Trade In the .House of Commons,
note suggesting that the belligerents I
make known their desires concerning I Two men were seriously iniured
peace. Says: I n-hen th Atlantic Cnant T.fnn TUUt-
"President Wilson must not be sur-I BBr, train fn. R7 ran Intn tb rear
fuseo ii, ua .ua ale uuii- ,end of a Irel&nt train at Troy, Ala.
cerned, his intervention produces a I ,
state of mmd contrary to that at I n.. t.:irrl o.i twn wm;
Which he aims. The allies Will readliy I ir,i,,vWI In an snlosinn In the. 'PVTe-a-
give the president credit for the best water mine of the Tennessee Coal, Iron
iiiieiiuuiia, rai u.v uc jusiiucu & Railway Co., at Birmingham, Ala.
in wondering whether, from their point
of view the note is not particularly Maurice E. Connolly, Borough Pres-
Ul-timed and lll-JUdged. llIont nf Onemc unncntf tho TOsrionn-
The presidents assurance that the j yon 0( James A. Dayton as Public
receuu ucrmaii uvenuira nau u Wnrka flnmm an nner for that hflmilffh
prompting influence on his proposals I
must 'De acceptea. At tne same time, Sergeant Robt. E. Gonzales, of the
V, i , , ".""- Machine Gup. Company, South Caro-
adroit that we should be so appealed Una Infanti-y, son of W. B. Gonzales,
to by the Lnited States at a moment ,Init.i states Minister to Cuba, is
wnen me ames are in. iiie iieisrii- ul j dead
tneir power ana vrermaiiy khuwh ner
RICES SLAUGHTERED
War Brides" Were the Most Advers-
ly Affected Losses of From 5 to 33
Points Bankers. Not Alamed Out
sider Are Standing the Losses.
"
New York, Dec. CI. The stock, mar
ket today went through the mot ex
citing day in its hisotry, with, one ex
ception. President Wilson's nous to
the belligerent powers, followed Dy
Secretary Lansing's first explanatory
statement of its intent, were the occa
sion of frenzied selling, when n. sape
and volume farly dwarfed all tiu op
erators when followed on tne peace
proposals from Germany.
Prices were slaughtered to the ex
tent of 5, 10 and 15 points, in one case
33. and the day's sales aggregated
8,176,000 shares, a total without prece
dent eince the famous Northern Pacific
corner of 1901. The decline wan vir
tually unchecked, only a few nom'nal
rallies marking the trading of tne final
hour.
"War Brides" Adversely Affected.
The liquidation of the forenoon, ag
gregating more than 1,300,000 share!
alone, was confined, as has been tho
case in the recent operations, to the
so-called "war brides," or. stocks whicfc
might be adversely affected by the
declaration of peace, but soon afer
the publication of Secretary Lansing's
statement suggesting that the United
states was "drawing nearer to tne
verge of war," rails also began to
participate in the decline, selling on
sharply, with losses of from four to
eight points fcefore the close.
Brokers' offices long before tne
opening were loaded with selling or
ders, and when the gong on the floor
(Continued on Page Ten.)
RAILROADS NOT COMPLYING
TO REDISTRIBUTION PLANS,
Cuba, is
own apparently favorable position
cannot possibly be maintained.
On the other hand there is the
Army medical officers on the border
reported there was no danger of the
cases of spinal meningitis among
possibility that Mr. Wilson's efforts I Georfia Pennsylvania troops be-
r i 1 K . uurcLCU waiu iiwui v JV-'
many concrete terms of peace, which
she withheld in her extraordinary ap-
coming epidemic.
The wholesale warehouse of the Zion
proaeh to the entente. In that case a I ,-, .;,, M.or,i T,;tnr,
useful Purpose may be served for we contr,lled by the Mormon Church, at
then would be in a position to judge Pocatellaj Idaho waa damaged by fire
whether war weariness is associ!t"d - i ,,,i
wit hthe consciousness of criminality
of which Germany has been found
guilty in the judgment of the civilized
world, and the extent to -hich this
will induce her to yield to the allies'
inexorable demands for guarantees
against future barbarism."
at a loss of $200,000.
Boston and Albany and Maine Central
Two of Eight Roads Named.
Washington, Dec. 21. In line wi'h
Its announced policy of bringing bo
fore the bar of public opinion the
railroads which do not co-operate In
car redistribution plans, the commis
sion on car service of the Amcrl in
Railway association announced ton.ght
that eight roads had failed to cairy
out recommended redistribution mean-
ures. rue annonncTBent express a
hope "that these lines will at once
show a marked Improvement in their
performance. i
The roads named are tne Boston ana
Albany, the Maine Central, the Lenlgh
Valley, the Philadelphia and Reading,
the New York Central, the Michigan,
Central, the Wabash and the Toledo
and Ohio Central.
"It is clearly apparent," says the
announcement, ''that these companies,
having an excess of box car equip
ment, have not complied with the re
quest of the commission on car service
to deliver a designated excess of box
cars to southern and western connec
tions above the number of box cars
received from such connections."
MATTHEW HARRIS, A NEGRO,
WON $42,500 DAMAGE SUIT.
Decision Rests on "A Man's Home is
His Castle" Fired at Posse.
HOW LONDON DAILY NEWS
VIEWS NOTES OF BELLIGERENTS
Declares No One Can Fail to Appre
ate the Spirit in Which Proposal is
Made. .
Washington, Dec. 21. An official re
port to the state department from the
American consul at Malta said that
the horse ship St. Ursula, bound from
Saloniki to Montreal in ballast, with
six Americans in the crew, was sunk
without warning by a torpedo from a
submarine of unknown nationality on
Dec. 12. Two officers reported seeing
the wake of the submarine and its
periscope, but not its flag. Tne sur
vivors, including the six Americans,
were landed at Malta six hours after
wards. Four men still are missinf.
The state department has ordered far
ther investigation. '
IRRESISTIBLE PASSION FOR
PASSING WORTHLESS CHECKS.
Third Offense for Samuel L. Richards
Has Served Two Prison Sentences.
New York, Dec. 21. Samuel L.
Richards, who helped Thomas Mott
Osborne organize the Mutual Welia.c
league -at Sing Sing prison and De-
came its first secretary, was arrested
her etoday for passing a worthies
check -for $150 on Alexander Karli
Mr. Osborne's former attorney. Rich
ards, who is 42 years of age, ha3 spent
27 years in penitentiaries and reform
atories.
Less than a year ago Richards, af
ter serving four years at Sing Sing
for forgery, went to 'Baltimore, where
he obtained $2,000 by writing Mr. us
borne's name on a check and persuo.d
ing an admirer of the former w-irdei
of Sing Sing to endorse it. " For this
offense he was paroled in Mr. Os
borne's care. i
- - - .... r
VILLA IS PLANNING A
CAMPAIGN AGAINST TORREON.
Is Again in Possession of Jiminez and
Santa Rosalia.
Washington, Dec. 21. State JepaV-
ment advices today indicated tliut
Villa is again in possession of Jiminez
and Santa Rosalia, south of Chihuahua,
and that ho is planning a campaign
against Torreon, where there is only a
small Carranaz garrison. Telegraphic
communication with Torreon wa.3 in
terrupted today, but the last reports
from there said the British consul.
Who has been representing American
interests, was starting south wiih
some 200 foreigners, mostly Americans
and Germans.
ARCHBISHOP HARTY INSTALLED
- AS BISHOP OF OMAHA
Has Been in the Philippines for the
Past Ten Years.
Omaha, Nt.b., Dec. 21. Archbishop
Jeremiah J. Harty was installed' as
bishop of Omaha a.t St. Celia's Ca
thedral today. Two prelates of the
Catholic church and 120 priests of Ne
braska and Iowa were present at the
ceremony. Archbishop Harty has been
in the. Philippine islands for the last
12 years.
; Although the'See of Omaha is only
a bishopric and its head bears the
lower - title, .Archbishop Harty Harty
retains the rank and title held previ
ously and will be known as Archbish
op Harty.-
Mrs. Catherine Sullivan of the Eit.
bury district of Boston, who wi3
struck by a train at North Wilmington
Monday night, died at a hospital in
Lawrence, Mass-, yesterday.
The War Department has Issued a
permit to the New Jersey Interstate
Bridge & Tunnel Commission to build
a tunnel from about the foot of Canal
Street, N. Y., to 13th Street, Jersey
City.
Torfdon, Dec. 22. The Daily News,
which is the nearest to pacifist among
the London newspapers, says today
regarding President Wilson's note:
'No one can fnil to apnreciate the
spirit in which the propcv.l is made
or to approve the cautious terms m
which it is coached. The history of
the great struggle in his own country
Is too recent and too memora!ble for
President Wilson to be unaware of
tbe perils of too hasty intervention.
From our side it was the spectre of
fluropean intervention that haunted
Lincoln, especially in those days when
the cause of the north was passing
through its darkest phase.
"Mr. Wilson is far too wise to add
that trouble to the enormous burdens
of the nations engageed in the strug
gle for liberty no less and far great
er. He is taking1 soundings. If he
finds the Jf&r still too deep he will
withdraw Tils plumb line and await
until a more favorable opportunity."
The newspaper says the c entral
powers would accept the note eager
ly and despite their arrogant tone the
door should not be barred and bolted
In their face. If they have terms to
offer the allies should tase their own
proposals.
The Daily News says there is no
suffering in America comparable with
that in Lancashire during the cotton
famine brought about by LPicoln a
blockade and says it does not believe
the American people will put the dls
ability they are suffering in the scale
against victory of human liberty over
despotism.
The commissioner on Domestic ani
mals issued an order, ordering the
muzzling of dogs for a period of nine
ty days in Danbury, Litchfield and
Hamden because of prevalence of ra-j
Charles E. Hughes carried Oregon
by a plurality of 7,314 over President
Wilson, according to the official re
turns announced today. The final
count was: Hughes 126,719; Wilson
119,435.
AMERICAN -HAWAII AN LINE
STEAMER KANSAN DAMAGED
Presumably by Striking Mine Was
Carrying Horses to France.
New York, Dec 21. A cablegram
from Captain Forsythe, of the steamer
Kansan, received here today by the
American-Hawaiian line, said she was
damaged on Tuesday, "presumably by
striking a mine." The Kansan car
ried horses for France, in addition to
a general cargo.
It was the Kansan that first report
ed the activities of the German sub
marine U-53 off Nantucket on October
9. A wireless message from Captain
Forsythe said his ship had been stop
ped bv the submarine and compelled
to prove her identity. The Kansan
was then on her way to Boston.
General Funston ordered Colonel
Richard II. Wilson, commanding troops
in the Yuma district, to send a suf
ficient force to Ajo, Airz., to protect
the place against threatened Mexican
trouble.
The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
placed an embargo against all west
bound carload freight connections
west of Cumberland, Md., except per
ishables, livestock and foodstuffs for
human consumption.
Harvey Dow Gibson, at the age of
34, has been elected president oi tne
Liberty National bank- in New York,
to succeed Thomas Cochran, who will
become a member of the firm of J. lr.
Morgan and company.
Baron Robt. E. Oppenheim, Lon
don and Paris banker, held up at New
York 'by immigration authorities on
the ground that he had been impli
cated In charges involving moral turp
itude, was ordered released.
Memphis, Tenn., Dec. 2L Upholding
the contention that "a man's noma is
his castle and he has a right to dd'end
it," which Judge John E. McCall em
phasized in his charge, a jury in fed
eral court here today awarded Mat
thew Harris, a negro, $22,500 compen
satory and 20,000 punitive damages
in his suit against John A. Reicninan,
former sheriff of Shelby couny. and
members of a sheriff's posse.
Harris, who sued for $100,000, was
seriously injured when his home was
dynamited in an attempt to dislodge
him after he fired on the posse which
was' searching for one of his relative
Harris testified that he was not aware
of th eidentity of the posse maa when
he resisted their efforts to search his
home.
Riechman was exempted from the
verdict for punitive' damages, as it
was shown that he was not actually a
member of the posse.
POPULATION OF UNITED STATE'S
IS SHIFTING TO CITIES
40.9 Per Cent, of the Country's Inhab
itants Live in Cities of Mora Than
8,000.
Washington, Dec. 21. The popula
tion of the United States continues to
shift to the cities, according to esti
mates announced today by the census
bureau. The estimates, based on the
rate of ipopulation increases from IS 00
to 1910, disclosed that 40.0 per cent.
of the country's inhabitants now live
in cities of more than 8,000, as against
98.9 per cent, in 1910. The entire pop
ulation of Continental United States
for 1916 has already been estimated at
102,017,312. The total in the stales,
territories and United States posses
sions is put at 112,444,620.
COULDN'T FIND VOUCHERS,
SO HE KILLED HIMSELF
Luther Burbank, plant evolutionist,
and his secretary. Miss Elizabeth Wa
ters, were married at San Francisco
Thursday by Rev. C. S. S. Dutton,
pastor of the First Unitarian cnurch.
The ceremony was private.
One passenger was killed and sev
eral persons were injured when the
Seminole Limited, from Jacksonville
to Chicago, running on the Central of
Georgia Railroad track, jumped the
track nine miles from Opelika, Ala.
Movements of Steamships.
Copenhagen, Dec. 19. Arrived:
Rteamer Frederik VIII, New York.
Bergen. Dec 20. Arrived: Steamer
Bergensfjord, New York.
New York, Dec. i 21. Signalled:
Steamer La Touraine, Bordeaux for
New York. Dock 8 a. m. Friday.
Liverpool, Dec. 20. Sailed: . Steam
er Lapland, New York.
Postmaster Walter E. Marean of Steep
Falls, Me, Hanged Himself.
Steep Falls, Mo, Dec 21. Postmas
ter Walter El Marean hanged himself
In a deserted camp today after wan
dering all night through a swamp fol
lowing his failure to find certain
vouchers for a post office inspector.
The matter of the vouchers could
have been cleared up easily, according
to the Inspector.
SMALL RUSSIAN STEAMER
STRUCK BY A MINE
Fifty-nine Persons Were Killed Only
One Aboard Escaped.
Copenhagen, via London, Dec. 21,
1L22 ip. m. The small Russian steam
er Skiftet has been sunk by striking
a .mine near Abo, Finland, according
to advices received here. Fifty-nine
persons were killed in the disaster.
Only one person aboard the steamer
was saved.
mas holidays.
1
ME-.
I'.
j
