'FINANCIAL EDITION
jjSTR
NIGHT
EXTRA
linger
NIGHT
EXTRA
.V
mmmg
-6
y vol. in. o. 8d
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1916
Corttiettr. tBlt. t tm rruo l.rro CetiMitt.
PRICE ONE CENT
PENN FOOTBALL PLAYERS OFF FOR PACIFIC COAST
SPROUL TO RUN
FOR GOVERNOR;
M'CORMICKMAY
QUICK NEWS
"V
c
LHIIHJr jEtfHfj37VV?9fjRTiF?Vv'$''!V t Jf j-Tu"i "R7falttV' ? sais3H i yC ''SJ-WT r XasWrT ' fl uMgBHHpHHsLHFuikv iteBBffJKr j.tJ4jj?ajS6j
PARLIAMENT
? DISMISSED BY
ING
IsBritish Rule-r Prorogues
Legislature and Vows
War to Finish
BACKS PEACE REJECTION
LONDON, Dec. 22
Proroguing Parliament today, until Feb-
rnary 7. King George added the weight ot
his words to the Allies' stern rejection pf
Oennn-mado peace.
"Th vigorous prosecution of the war
itiujt be our single endeavor." ho declared,
.3..tll ... ,,. lnrtft1 !, rlshfn ml
ruthles-ly violated by our enenjlos and
established tho security of Kuropo on vL
sure foundation "
King George thanked the Hours of Com
mons for Its "Unstinted llbernllly" In pro-
Tlalng funds o cover the burdens of tho
,wsr.
"In thin sacred caute," the King declared.
''lam assured of the united support of nil
my peoples. I pray Clod may give u- Ills
:' Messing"
My Government.1', the Kins continued,
afMr summarising the nation's alms In
the war, "was reconstructed with tho solo
object of furthering tjiose alms unaltered
and unimpaired.
? "I am confident that, however long the
trugglo may be, my army nnd my navy.
with tbaio of my faithful nllles, aided by
r subjects throughout the empire, will achieve
' vUf-erlous conHummatlon of the alma for
Which I entered tho war."
In the Homo of Commons the King's nd
dress proroguing Parliament was read by
Speaker Lowthcr.
King George was not present In person
before the House of Lords, nnd his proro
ration address was read thero by the Lord
Chancellor.
Chancellor A. llonar Law announced to
day that Kngland could not deal with Presi
dent 'Wilson's note until the Government
had an opportunity to exchango Ideas with
Its Allies.
Editors. In discussing tho note Just after
ths contents had been made Known, but
before it was released for publication, com
mented
"This means a crisis between tho United
States and Kngland. It constitutes the
worst affront America could give the Allies.
The situation may become more serious
than any similar one since, the Mson and
Slldell case "
But editorials announced by these same
editors in the morning showed evidences,
i f restraint and of the "soft pedal."
CALLED "ILL-TIMED"
The favorite remarks with which the
Wilson note has been greeted were that IC1
gv M "hi timed," "Inopportune," "doubljfss
Its Well lntntiM.i ... m .i..i.ii. .. kIl
. Viable blunder."
"few question the motives or the spirit
S which impelled the note, but most of the
editorials point out that it was. unhappily
,?alved and tactlessly worded espe
cially in Its references lo "small nations."
Us. it was contended, conveyed the Im
pression that the Allies were equally guilty
with the Central Powers In this respect.
BOKAJl LAWS 8TATEMBNT
Entire approbation was voiced through
.the press and by the public In the en
, ffcatlc utterances of Bonar Law In Com
sat last night regarding peace. Ill
statement was construed as an Indirect
! to America. lie said In part:
It J all very vyell to say "let us get
Weir terms of naice " but can you get
fjr tiras more binding than the treaty
m th proteatton or the neutrality at
' fJlqiaT -'an jfu come to any oo
ialona on paper, or by promise, that
sut gjva ua greater security than e
had before this warr
Not this jratlon alone, but the neu
tral nations, will, t hop, understand
J Position, at which we have now ar
med. Qerrosny has made peaea pro
Wal, On what ba!r o Die basU
her victorious armies. Is there a
who, consider In the conditions.
d which tbU war was ford on us
J 'b coodltwuui under which the war
J ta CirrMiU oa, ttosestly beiteves
wf ifce ittgr awl tsMcurtttM trum
wa.tn we tt .uttto vm bf pkurd
JZH . -. . .
MflTlltf -Tfn T1 BrnlWi nrt-r-WMwn wr 'F'lfnii WfflBsssssssssssssf
Tho vnralty men wcro rjiven n rousing sond-off by tho students when
thoy left tho Reading Tcrminnl this afternoon for California, whero
they will play the University of OrcRon. Coach Folwcll Is shown nt
tho bottom of the picture.
RUSSIANS CHASE
FOES INTO LAKE
Bulgar Force Routed and
Many Are Drowned,
Petrograd Says
DOBRUDJA FIGHT RAGING
rRTHOUHAD. Dec. :S.
The greater part of the Bulgarian de
tnohment advancing eastward to Lake IU
badag from Bnlsal In Oohrudja, was forced
Into Lake Ibolotn and many were.drowneo
today omolal statement declared
The Russians took 115 prisoners.
A v.olent battle Is In progresuln Northern
Dobrudja, where the offensive was assumed
by the forces of the Central Power, which
at first carried several heights, but later
were driven from a portion of the cap.
tured ground, the War Offloa announced.
Itueelan attack In efforts to gain con.
trol of the remaining heights are going on.
On l th wit baH of the Danube, In U.e
region north of lluxeu. and at other point.
Ihtn has been fighttor. eh.erly bet,wen ad
auced detachments.
An advance for the Ilusstans in the r.glon
of Clampolung, In the Carpathians, where
by the War Smc. " "da ""f1
ment Vn paltcta Teutonic attempts to
advance In the ZloU I-'P "glon were
cheeked.
nertLiK. P. a-
A Wg battle has aereloiied la northern
nobrudla In the ItunwiiUn theatre of war,
Dobruuta. in J"V" received today from
fnrZV TheTeman 'tilled under Field
irstal w Mackwsen. are. prlavlg.
nroSS alnt the llussan army Ip an
L . y. ?SiX It into the great swawps
t?'.'t..iS thad.lta of the Danube or fwee
TZ'Jl "northward into Uessar.b
flSf!l1V,n troow holding the DobjrivdM
,; VV WIF -" relnfarced. as tn.y
lln
CstUt ratf Vlit.'Vtlaoiu Oae
Services for, Stephen Girrd
Services in corawWatlonf the death
of Stephen Olrard eight,-nve year, ago
JW MM fl. morning In theN .hapel of
nirard College, which he fwaded. Jowph
4M,rof i Pr"4 the
ZrTtb, which l ! w ,b
.! f m
jgSMB.
RUIN AND RICHES
IN STREET PANIC
Small Traders Crushed in
Stock Exchange Big Ones
Make Millions
GERMAN BANKERS GAIN
Sharp Rebound in Stock Prices
THERE was a sharp rebound in
tho New York stock markot today.
Buying orders wore in the market
on n Inrea scale at tho oneninir. and
while most of the buylnjr represented
short covering, a consiueraoie amount
was from "barBaln" hunters. When
most of the shorts bad covered
prlccrs reacted from tho beat, but
Jield above the cloie of yesterday.
important price cnanBcs tnciuucu.
VtiUriUr'n TIj'
lOO. IllfU.
Si IIM
at
4S3 fiui
, 10d Itu
Allanllr. Gulf
IV
lie IMhrm lUt .
liuir ?tt. hletl
lrin nwimen.
Vlatln pnroreil .
Urnulillc Iron
U ti hUt luaimoa
3 !
IW 01 u
st! ijisii
tmf
100 j
XBIV YOHIv. Dec. S3. Stories of rula
for smaller trdcr wb were caught In
the thre'n,illllon-share 'peaee tanlo" mar.
kst of yesterday, and tales of big "killings"
by professions! plungevu divided attention
toda).
Hundred of human tragedies were writ
ten lnp brokers' account book. They
were spelled In "account closed." Con
aarvatlve Wall Street inen estimate that
Cwlloiud a rs rur, felumu r
WOSIAN KILLED BY GAS
fa- i -
Defective Apparatus of Heater Re
sponsible for Fatal Acaident
Mrs Kate (Jaukln, fifty years old. was
aecWetvUlly overcome by gas early today In
r,tr room at 1T!5 South Second street. a.nd
died while being hurried to lit Blnal hos
pital in a patrol wagon from the Fourth
street and Snyder avenUe station.
The woman was found unconscious by
Mrs. Nellie Long, who rents the dwelling
at tn South Beoo4 street address The
rwu was filled wttu gas from a defective
bo exteadfag rru g sieve Xa gas
let Tb fixture) on the stave was turned
jr, but lbs CM iH was wvd eM, aitow
im m lk tato h rwwu UkBMm;i t
sw
FREAK ELECTRIC
STORM HITS CITY
Summer Thunder and Light
ning Mark Winter's Of
ficial Opening Today
RAIN FALLS IN TORRENTS
A freak thunderstorm mnrklng tho om
c!nl opening of w Inter grroied Philadelphia
early this morning with n series of tight
iilng flashcn lasting more than nn hour
nnd accompanied, by tv,- steady downpour
of the heaviest rain Philadelphia, has .bad
In weeks, Tho . lightning Itself wrought
Imvvo In many sections nf tlio city.
As an aftermath to the storm clearing
weather brought Out Christmas shoppers
again later today. Armed with umbrellas,
galoshes nnd raincoats, shoppcri brtfved the
cloudy skies this .afternoon. Tho wijather
prediction la that tonight nnd tomorrdw will
be clear 'nndmuch' colder, "iWllt ttfo flierJ
tnomatcr reacliljiK About SO dcgfcoii
The stprm this morning tame literally
like n bolt from tho sky. Acfcompanled by
n hfay downpour ot rolu lightning seemed
to flash across the sMeiln almost every
direction. The lightning nbt nly was on
unusual sight, but it wrought havoc In nnd
near Philadelphia.
POWKH PLANTS "HIT
In Cynwjil one house was struck, while
holts struck tho pOner stations of the Pub
lic Service lUUway In Jloorestown, N. J.,
and on Allahtlo avenue, C'umden. Fires
were caused at both itn1!om by the light
ning, but they were extinguished nt small
(oss.
Trolley service, however, was badly crip
pled for more than an hour In nnd near
Camden ns a result of the crippling of the
power station. Many factories were com
pelled to shut down
Thousands of commuters In this city
and Camden were delajed by tho tie-up.
Trains wers delayed, tioth Incoming nnd
outgoing, and the heavy rain added ma
terially to the general Inconvenience.
The house struck was that of Arthur
P. Lewis, at 31 1 ICenf road. The boll
hit the roof shortly after 7 o'clock nnd
the Interior of the house was badly dam
aged by nfe.
The storm In Philadelphia lasted more
than en hour,. The rain was tho heaviest
Philadelphia has had In several weeks,
at least, and the lightning did damage In
many sections of the city.
' POLICE WIKK8 ArKKCTKD
The wires of the Hlectrlcat llureau of the
pollcoj stations In West Philadelphia were
struck shortly after 7 u'clock. There were
bright Hires In all the station house which
drew the policemen to their feet and all
the call boxes were thrown out of uoin
mlsslon temporarily, bringing an Immediate
and urgent call for help to the bureau Itself.
Phone ssrvlce throughout the city wo
affected to some extent Operators on
switchboards felt the shocks and oalU for
Information as to the cause of the dis
turbance were sent out In all directions.
To make matters worse, the oily was
thrown n darkness In some sections Tho
llghjlng wires, were put out ot eommiselen
In some houses And many Phlladelphlan
were forced to grop ihetr way around to
dress In daikncs.
The extent of the darkness whleh pre
ceded the sterm was evidenced by the fact
that the olty's street lights were not extinguished-until
nearly 7:30 o'clock. With
Caatloued If feur, Celiuua He
" i' " r- -
Auto Hurts Fatal to Veteran
HBADINO, Pa., Dec. !J. Isaac Hauler
mat, seventy-five ers eld. civil war vet
eran and cwpls) ot the City Highway De
partment, died at th Heading Hospital
today of conousslon of the brain and other
injuries, the result of being run down
nbout 'ten day ago by the automobile of
Otto llelssroan. a leading Heading business
man.
YOU SHOULD KNOW
ABOUT BAN JOHNSON
Read the Interesting analysis of
the dominating figure " baseball on
the
PORTING PAGE
x of TODAY'S
I
KILLED BY ICE FROM ROOF
HACKBNSACK. N. J., Dec. US. Frank Klncht, ft public service
Inspector, wns kilted hcie today whtn n lnrgc plcco of tco fell on lilt.
bend ffom n roof.
f
BOATS UPSET. OCCUPANTS DROWTTHD. IN GTZZ
NOIU'OIiK, Vn., l)je. !W. Lushed by mi clr-hty-mlle gale ttotos
of sninll Miliw me scttrtyltig befoto imiontalu-ulgh sens townul Lynn
haven Boy's bhrtcr tlila nflcnioon. Several boats lmvo been cnpslctd
nml their occupants pounded to tlcnth ngnluttt their sldcu or druwiKi:.
The Otcck httivitinlilp Annawioltits crnshd Into a orwcgla:i ulcniiistilli
In Hnmptim Uo.tds. Neither was ruportcd batlly Tr.vnmgetl.
PENN PLAYEUS OFF FOR PASADENA
The Unlv entity of l'enni)lnnla ruotball team ilcimrtcd this nftcr.nooii for
Pn.Milena. Cnl . vvhoro the t'nlverxlly of Oregon will twi playeU In a big Intor
nrctlaiinl football gnmo mi Now Yont's I)ny. Twenty-two plaem. thteo conches, n
pit) jlcnl director, two mnnnKorn tiiul right rooters mnila tho trip.
IJOSTON RESERVE HANK DECLARES 6 PER CENT DIVIDEND
U08TON, Dec. 22. Thn rcdernl Itcscrvo itiiiik of Ilosion has doclared nn Initial
dividend nt tho rate of six pcrH'iit per milium for tho period from November 2, 11)1 1.
to December 31, 1D1G. Dividend Is payable January 2. 131", to stock of record De
cember 3D, 191(1.
SV.W YORK, Dec. 22. Dlrectuis oMho IVdornl Itcservo Hank of New York
have declared nn Inltlnl dividend of six per cent to cover tho accumulated dividend
from November 2, 1914. to March 31, 1316, Inclusive, payable- December 30, 1916.
in i, - i i i ii
COMMERCIAL EXCHANGE CLOSES UNTIL TUESDAY
Tho Commercial i:chango cloiod this nftoriinan to nllow Its members to cclc
brnto tho Christmas hallthiy nnd will not reopen until Tuesday. Tho exchanges in
New York, Chicago, Dttluth. Minneapolis, St. Louis, Kansas City will nlso close for
tho snma period
PHILADELPIIIAN HEADS $17,000,000 STEEL CONCERN
IMCIIMOND, Va., Dec 2.' Tho Superior Btccl Corporutlou has been chartered
hero by tho Htuto Corporation Commission, with nn authorisedcapital of $17,000,000.
Matthew Roger, of 1335 Christian stieot, Philadelphia, is president; William J.
rtchnfcr.lnrllon, N. Y treasurer, nnd Andrew D. Christian, ltlchmopd, socretarj'.
U-BOAT RAIDER DESTROYED, SAY FRENCH
PARIS, Dec. 22 iho nermnn submarine U-5, which recently raided shipping
off St. Nawlre, hnM beon sunk by ilostroj ere, pays n dispatch from Nantes today.
.HUNGARIAN KING TO BBCROWNElJ DECEMBER 1)0
RUDAJ'EaT, Dec. 22. The coronntlon ot Charles ns Klnjt of Hungary will take
plnce nn Docembcr 30. Parliament has completed phns for Iho ceremonies. Count
Tlsit has been elected Pnlndln. It Is thu Pnlndln h places the crown upon 'tho
King's head.
.... i .
BEDFORD SUCCEEDS ARCHBOLD AS STANDARD OIL'S HEAD
Ni:V YORK, Deo 23 Directors of tho Htnnilanl Oil Company of New Jersey
today elected A. C. Heilforil ns president to succeed the Into John D. Archbold. The
now head ot Hlnndnrtl Oil Company l one of tho youngest men in Its councils and
rono rapidly, thoilgh unostentatluusly. from tho bottom. Ho Is fifty-two years old
nnd bus beon with tho parent body or Ha Hdbsldlnrloj slnco ho won eighteen years
old. Only during tho last ten yearn has be occupied a conspicuous position In the
oil industry. Mr Iledford Is a native of llrookljn, whom ho started his career.
JERSEY PARDON BOARD PAROLES 123 PRISONERS
THUNTOX, Dec. 22.-Tho Htnto Hoard of Pardons today played Banta Claus to
12S Inmates of tho Now Jersey prison when It granted them paroles. Klve men
serving various lorms for murder wcro nmong tho number released. '
RELEASE OF SINN FEINERS OFFICIALLY PLEDGED s
LONDON, Dec. 22. Ofllclnl announcement that tho Hlnn Koln prisoners arrested
aftor the Dublin uprising nro lo bo released forthwith Is expected to go far townrd
allaying the unriwt In Ireland. Thin step toward, the pnclncatlon of Ireland Is re
garded In tlovernmcnt circle as n wise move on tho part of tho Lloyd Ocorge Cab
inet. Henry i:. Duke, Chief Bccrutnry for Ireland, stated tnnt stops aro now tinner
way to release tho prisoners nnd send them to their homes without delay,
SOCIETY WOMAN TRAPS BURGLAR IN HER HOME
Miss Mnry vV. Morris, u Philadelphia society woman, truppud a burglar In
her home. 1611 Sprttco strcot, early today nnd recovered goods valued at sevoral
hundred dollars. Bhe was nwikcncd by a noise nnd telephoned tl)o police. Police
man Hall met the burglar coming from tho house and arretted him after n
struggle.
BRITISH TAKE EGYPTIAN TOWN LONG HELD BY FOE
LONDON, Dec. 22. After two years' ocaupatiu-n by tho enemy, llrltlsh forces
havo taken Kl Arish, ncwnllng to n War Otllco announcement today. (El Arlsh is
a fortified Hgyptfan town, on the Palestine border nt the mouth of the River Widy.
cJ.Ariah, or "Hher of Kgypt," on the Mediterranean Sea.l
ALLIES PLACE MORE SHELL STEEL ORDERS v
NBW YORK. Ceo. JS2. Additional orders fot' sheel steel otfgregntlng nearly
100,000 tons have been place! by rcpresontatlvos of the Allies. Thl tannage, like
all 'similar contracts closed within the Inst flvo or six weeks, is for dsllvery over
the second half ot 1917.
U. S. EXP.ORTS THIS YEAR TO REACH 57,800,000,000
WASHINGTON. Dec. 22. The United States foreign trade for the Vear will
probably re-ieh I7.8O0.O0O.00O, It wn announced today by the Dspartment of Com
merce. Tho foreign trade for el'ten months was $7,148,009,000.
NO FREIGHT INCREASE ON SULPHURIC ACID '
WASHINGTON. Dee. 2J. The proposal of the Loulavtlle Nashville and
other railroads to Increase the.freisiit ratw on sulphurio aold to New Yprk, Haiti
more, Philadelphia, Uaston and other eastern munitions manufacturing points
was today declared unjustified by the Interstate Comments Commission. The in
orease would range from seventy cent to Jt.JO per ton. The Increase of fifty-five
cents per ton to Hopewell. V , was approved.
JAPAN PLANS NAVY TO RULE PACIFC BY 1923
TOKIO. Dw. A grat nrora,ni of naval expansion whleh, by the ejtd of
193, will give Japan ovevwhaJmlag superiority over all other fleel In the Pseine,
Including that qf the United 8UUf wa efllataUy announeed tday. Hy fne end
of 1923, it is estimated, Japan will Uve built thre new battleship, two battle
cruiser. nine sQAHt wuU, twPty-)llvdtroyers and eighteen subnvarines.
Thts will brlttg the battle fleet up to eHTrrof the roost modern battleships and
four battle cruisers.
GIFT WON'T BLOCK MEDICAL COLLEGES' MERGER
Reports that the H 50,000 widowmeot to Jetferson Medical Colls; just tmiiouneod
would prevwt the merger of that instUuUun with the Vnivrlty of Pennsylvania,
medksal school wero declared this afterson to b absolin unfounded by WillUm
Potter, president of the board of trustees of Jefferson Hgfcnd vi prMnt4 fay
Mkw .m. ix Mag. ot JT3 Wiiwt trt
ja-,
as a nMimR 4r attoft Uw jajj
Dolawaro County Senator
Nominated in Unique
Manner
DEMOCRATS START BOOM
vSsv HwikniMti'HH -in Ja ikv mnrpl
TWO OUQEUNATOUrAt, BOOMS
William C. Snroul, Ra publican
lender nf Dolnwaro County, nt tho
ton, nnd Vnnco G- SJcCoirmlck, clmlr
nfun of the- Democratic National
Committco, both of whom havo
been suggested ns candidates for
tho Governorship bf Pennsylvania.
State Senator William C. Hproul,' of Dela
ware County, has formally announced his
candidacy for Governor to eyeceed Martin
(1. Tlrunibaugh, This announcement was
received hi political circles almost slmul
tancously with tho action of President Wil
son's PennHylvnnln leaden who launched, a
definite gubernatorial boom for Vance C
McC'ormlck. chalnnun of the Democratic
National Cohtmltteo.
Mr. .Sproul'n announcement was made nt
a meeting Mif Iho Republicans of Ridley
township, who were the guests of James Is".
Dougherty, ot I.lcpervllle, and was the most
unique npnounceinent of a gubernatorial
cand daoy In the history of tho Htate
The McCormlck boom was launched after
a meeting of (he leadcro In the Ilellevue
mrutford. It was net rolling by one of
the most Influential Isaders present, a, con
fidant of President Wilson's.
The plan Is to have McCormlck. who
nas the fusion Democratic-Progressive
nominee for Goernor In 1914 against Brum
baugh, again become the Democrat-o norqf
nee against whpever Is selected by thf
Republicans. ,
A. Slltchell Palmer. National Committee
man, 1 said lo favor McCornhek for Gov
ernor. It had long been thought that he
would be a onndlate himself In the guber
natorial fight.
VAU PKVI LLB "S .'ND-OK"'
Senator Mproul was surrounded by a
complete vaudeville show when ho made
hi announcement. Conjurers, strong men,
singers nnd clog dancers appeared en th
platform before he "accepted" tho npmliut
tlon to lead the fight uglnt the Vare-Urumbaugh-Magee
forces in 1911. and after
he hd dIlvrd hi speech, In whleh h-
declared war within the Republican party
on behalf of the "stalwarts." the Repul
Moans .of Ridley township feasted on 'pas-
sum. 'wn nd rabbit.
Tpe Delaware ..county Senator led ths
flght against the Present State admtnutre
tlon. which t batklrur John R K gcArt
for the next Republican gubernatorial
nomination, when he eutd the tk of
CoatloMlxtea rase Ttsb. Columa Du
THE WEATHER
FORBOA$T l
For Pkiladttpkia and 9iotHttyFmt
and wuct ?oWer 0 nig lit, with hmifi
about xQ dttrtee; Saturday nfr aid
continued eoUi; utrong torthwt3t vtfmk
dbninfihinff Saturday
LliOTIl of uvv
Titan I M4w M
KimrU
4l,SL
PISl.lU.tBtS KIVKK TWIK MttStlka
lHTf.V. BVFtSUR-
l tr lt-ja
m nu ifjf j -
HfatHwaUr use.
ttt w
i.Ii w
T. .XT
WWtWAilSKHkm
