~HY not ?-f or that last-minute 6 JLJST9.4.
gWft to the person who al ady
has mon everything you can
think of-why not send a year's sub
=,n0TeWashto Herald? TI "'45HELD _____I
DVoSunday-by carrier, $3.6o a S -
year; by mail, $4.O a year. -
NO. 3713. WEATHE--PROABLY RAD. WASHINGTON. D. C., FRIDAY, DEC"FRER 22, 1916. ONE C- .I . " a
GERMANS SEIZE
OIL IN RUMANIA
Oversas News Army Says
Fleeing Troops Did Not
Destroy Stores.
Berlin, via sayville wireless. Dec. 21.
-"In a short time transportation of
oil from Rumania into the interior of
the central powers will be begun on a
large scale," says the Overseas News
Agency. 'Thus It will be possible ;o
aeumulate great stores of oil, since
the present requirements of the central
empiree are well covered.
"In only, a few places were the Ru
meaeas able to destroy the machinery
of their oil wells, since the advance of
the Invading armies was too rapid to
permit this. Most of the hundreds of
towers n the Prahova valley and near
Campina already have resumed opera
tion. German engineers will have re
paired the damaged electric power sta
tions at Campino and Sinaia within a
few days'
Both in the ntheastern part of Ru
mania west of the Danube, and in the
Dobrudja the Teutonic invading armies
during the last thirty-six hours made
headway In their advances on the Mol
davia-Bessarabia line. This was offi
cially admitted by the Petrogiad war
office in its regular bulletin yesterday.
Berlin claims no successes except the
objection of opposing troops from rear
guard positions in great Wallachia.
A violent battle in the Dobrudja for a
series of heights is indicated by the Rus
sian statement. The heights In question
were stormed by the invaders in their
Initial onrush when they resumed the of
fensive on the front between the Danube
and Bachkol, but several of the mountain
positions were wrested from them by the
Russians by an embittered counter at
tack.
Fighting for other heights is still in full
swing.
The advance of a Teuton regiment on
both sides of the Insu-Race Vitzeri high
road in the Buseu sector "is being held"
by the Russian fire. Petrograd announces,
though it is conceded thiat on the Pirlta
Stankuca front (south of Braila) the
enemy pressed back our advance guard.
FREEDOM FOR IRISH
PRISONERS EXPECTED
Uoyd Geore Declared to Have Man
for Pacifcation
(Dv the latersnamna News Serviee.)
London, Dec, ZIL-That the Lloyd George
govesumest had detsniae a
sceme for the Paeffeatlon of Is~n &
indicated by developments of the past
twenty-four hours. Following the inter
pellation of Henry L Duke, chief secre
tary for Ireland. in the house of commons
last night, it was predtAed by the
newspapers today that a majority of the
Irish pisoners interned after the Sinn
Fein rebellion will be released immedi
ately. There is a strong movement under
way also to have mariti law abolished
in Ireland.
National attention is centered upon the
doestic program of Lloyd George. par
ticularly the mobilization of the indus
trial resources of the nation.
The Daily Chronicle calls the plan "bold
and very far-reaching." The govern
ment is preparing to appeal to the whole
manhood of the country that is not in
the army or engaged in work of national
Importance to enroll voluntarily as war
workers.
$22,000,000 WARSHIP
TO BE BULT BY U. S.
Huge Slip Will Be Built for It in
Philadelphia.
A nuge slip capable of handling con
"truction of battle cruisers will be erect
ed in Philadelphia, it was definitely learn
e, at the Navy Department late yester
day. It was said that there is a strong
probability that one of the $'.200.00 bat
tle cruirers for which bids were opened
recently will be built there.
Privatc concerns refused to make rega
lar bids for the huge cruisers. as one
has never beenebuilt here. They offered
to take the contracts and a 10 or 15 per
cent ;rofnt en the actual cost. In order
to find out the approximate cost of
buildinir the balance of the vessels, it
is probable that one first will be built
by the government.
AMERICAN KTTD IN FRANCE.
Beverly, Mass., Dec. .-Mrs. Bessie
de Mings received a postcard from the
British war office today informing her
that her son. Robert J. Cooney, who en
listed in the Canadian Ninety-seventh
Battalion last September, was killed
'somewhere in France" on December 10.
fighting with the allies. Cooney went to
Manitoba, Canada, two years ago as a
civil engineer.
ORDERS R ATIROAD SOLD.
St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 21.-Federal Judge
Hook today ordered the saie of the Mis
souri Pacific Railroad to satisfy a first
and refunding mortgage on the lines. The
order of foreclosure was asked by Guar
anty Trust Company of I~'ew York, Ben
F. Edwards, St. Louis, trustee.
DIG OIL STOCES FOR TEUTONS.
Berlin (via Bayville wireless), Dec. 21.
.In a short time transportation of oil end
oil products from Bermuda to Germany
can begin e a big scabs the Overseas
New. Agency states. It adds that not
only can the immediate needs of the cen
tral powers be met, but great quantities
can be stored up for future use.
GEN. CASTLENAI EETATNED.
p Pais, Dec. 3..Gen. Castelnan, chief of
staR to Gen. Jefrs. has been retained on
the active list In the French army de
spite the fact he has reached the age.
iinitt. He will be put in command of an
army group. Brig. Gen. Ferdinand Au
goste Pont. whoar Gen. Nivelle bas chosen
as hin chief of staff, haa bee. made gen
Cleveland Girls Carry Tin
Whistles in Vanity Cases
To Blow for Aid After Dark
Cleveland, Dec. 2I.-Cleveland women
am substituting the tin whistle for the
male escort. No, not as a matter of
Oboice, but when the escort is lacking,
the whistle accompanies the girl out
after dusk.
Miss Florence Kukura is mother of
the movement. She works nights and
has got tired of being accosted on the
way home by men with such inquiries
am "Aren't you afraid, little girl?" and
"Where are you going, girlie?" 4
'Girls can carry 'em in their vanity
cases." said Miss Kukura. "If there
isn't a policeman in the neighborhood
when the call is sounded, there'll surely
be some gallant man who'll respond."
Mother's Dream Starts
Police on Hunt for Child
Chioago, Dec. 2.-A monther's dream,
often repeated, today started police,
friends and newspapers on a search of
the city for a little girl, 3 years old,
who was swept from her father's arms
when the steamer Eastland overturned
In the river here on July 24 1915. A
body, identified as that of the child by
the mother, Mrs. William Peterson, was
recovered from the river and buried.
"Ruth is alive," was the substance of
Mrs. Peterson's dream, which also re
vealed the numerals 2600 and intimated
that the girl had been adopted by a
wealthy bachelor. whose home bore that
street number.
Son of Bandmaster Sousa
Catches Wristbag Rober
New York. Dec. 21.-When a woman
screamed on Park avenue. near Thirty
fourth street, early last evening and said
that a man had snatched her wristbag,
John Philip Sousa, Jr., took up the chase
and caught the fugitive on Thirty-fourth
street, between Park and Madison ave
nues. Sousa held his captive until a po
liceman arrived. The man said he was
Alfred Steiger, 94 years old, a striking
surface car motorman.
The woman whose bag was taken said
she was Mrs. Mary Deakin. When Steiger
was searched the police say they found
the bag on him,
Berlin Wil Have to Go
Without Christmas Trees
London. Dec. 2L-The Times prints the
following dispatch from Copenhagen:
"The Berlin correspondent of the Politi
ken sas that owing to the prohibition of
unnecessary transport. Berlin Is without
Christmas trees. There also Is very little
shopping, business being much less brisk
than usually at this time of the year.
The comprehensive system of cards
hampers shopping, and many stores close
at T o'clock Instead of midnight. as caz
tomers are few."
Wins Six Cents for False
Arrest on "Ogling" Charge
New York. Dec. 21-George Leon Loft,
20-year-old son of Representative George
W. Loft, the candy manufacturer, won a
6-cent verdict yesterday in a suit for
false arrest brought against Detective
Benjamin King.
The detective, his counsel told the Su
preme Court jury, was only obeying or
ders to arrest young men "ogling" and
"chirping" at young women passing along
Columbus Circle.
Young Loft denied he had either ogled
or chirped, and swore that for nothing at
all he had been arrested without warrant
and placed in a cell with a number of
culprits.
Policeman in Female Garb
Fails to Arrest "Hugger"
Pottvil!e, Pa., Dec. 21-The hugger who
embraced half a score of women while
they were shopping still eludes the p
lice.
Traps were set to catch him by dress
Ing policemen as women. When the hug
ger, deceived by the female attire, ap
proached one policeman. "he was chased.
but the cop found that skirts were an
Impediment to a rapid gait, and the man
readily escaped.
Stricken in Theater,
"Movie" Patron Dies
Stricken suddenly in the Hippodrome
Theater. John'C. Aphey died last night
at about 8 o'clock of heart disease. He
was 61 years old. Mr. Aphey lived at 1348
Euclid avenue. A widow and two daugh
ters survive him.
URGE LESS' BUR L POMP.
Atlanta. Ga., Dec. 21.-Elimination of
professional or paid singers and a gen
eral toning down in the splendor of
funerals of the dead 1s urged by the
Evangelical Ministers' Association, of At
lanta.
The association adopted resolutions ask
ing that funerals be held on some day
cther than Sunday where possible, and
that lengthy funeral sermons be cut down
to a few words. Part of the resolutions
read: "We urge upon all people the
good form of utter simplicity in all things
pertaining to the burial of the dead.'*
WOODSIDE, MD., PLANS FETE.
There is to be a lighted community
Christmas tree on the lawn of Grace
Episcopal Church. Woodaide, Md., eacn
evening from candlelight to midnight
from Christmas Eve to New Year's Eve,
inclusive.
On New Year's Eve at 7:30 o'clock the
residents of the surrounding country, in
cluding Forest Glen. Linden, Woodside
and Siver Spring. will assemble about
this tree, and under direction of Henry
Oldys, sing old English and French
carols.
CHEISTMAS MONEY BUENED.
Philadelphia, Dec. 21-When fire swept
the second poor of the home of Waiter
Moysnaki last night, $296 In notes, which
mnembers of the family had saved up for
their Christmas shopping, was burned.
The money was in a closet on the see
ond floor, and the blaze started In the
cioeet, so that there was no chance to
get the notes. Five persons in the house
escaped without injury. The loss e sesti
Imansa .m. n
Devlpmeunts of Day
Is Salary-Raise Move
1. House ruled out 5 ad 10 PW
cent increases for District of Co
lumbia employes.
. Representative Page, In charge
of the District bill, announces he
will support a Senate amendment
that will restore these increases,
3. Representative Rainey declared
he is not against salary increases,
but he wants the revision to affect
only those employes who deserve
increases.
4. Senate members express a be
lief that the 5 and 10 per cent in
creases are inadequate.
| Telegraph Tips |
Norfolk, Va., Dec. 21.-Three mZn were
killed and several others injured early
today when a boiler on the steamer Prin
ces Anne, Norfolk to New York, exploded
while the ship was off Lambert's Point.
London, Dec. 2.-The removal of Greek
troops from Thessaly to Peloponnesus will
begin tomorrow, says a dispatch from
Athens to the Daily Telegraph.
New York, Dec. 21-Fire of undeter
mined origin today swept an old mansion
at 92 Park avenue, destroying costly fur
niture and art works valued at P5,000.
Copenhagen. Dec. 21.-An immediate vote
is expected in the Landsthing upon the
proposal to sell the Danish West Indies
to the United States for $25,000,000.
Chicago. Dec. 21.-To establish the finest
collection of wax and glass reproductions
of plant life In the world, Stanley Field
has given $200.000 to the Field Museum, it
was said today.
Scranton, Pa., Dec. 21.-Foster Minger
and John Bossart were drowned here to
day while skating on Lake Winols. It
was the first ice of the season and broke
under their weight. The bodies were not
recovered.
New York, Dec. 21.-The steamer Ad
vance, from Christobal, arrived here today
and reported sighting a submarine on
Tuesday in American waters. The under
sea boat was about a mile distant and
her nationality was not determined.
New York. Dec. 21.-Nearly 30.000 strik
ing garment workers here will resume
work immediately, as the result of settle
ments with fifty manufacturing firms an
nounced today by the strikers' commit
tes,'
Paris, Dec. 21.-Four German aeroplanes
have been shot down in the Somme see
tor the French war office announced to
day. There has been no important fight
ing. it was stated.
Indon, Dec. 21.-It was reported in the
American colony today that the engage
ment of Miss Elizabeth Aequith, daughter
of the ex-premier. to Hugh Gibson, secre
tary to the American embassy, will short
ly be announced.
Newcastle, Pa.. Dec. 21.-Damage of
over $250,000 resulted when a fire early
today destroyed the J. N. Euerson's de
partment store, the Brown and Hamilton
department store, the Knox Block, the
Woolworth five and ten cent store, and!
the J. W. Knox grocery. Four firemen
were injured.
Boston, Dec. 21.-Iterbert Jaques, exe
cutive chairman of the National Allied
Baar died at his home here today.
New York, Dec. 21.-Col. Joseph Kuhn,
United States military attache at Berlin.
arrived here today on the Scandinavian
American liner Oscar II. Accompanyingl
him was Lawrence W. Wjnslow, third
secretary of the American eEmbassy
there.
Paris, Dec. 21.-An Italian steamship
engaged in transporting Italian soldiers
home on leave was sunk in collision with
the French armored cruiser Erntst
Renene, says a dispatch from Marselles
today.
Berlin. Dec. 21.-Gen. von Bissing. Ger
man military governor of Belgium. is
dangerously ill of pneumonia, according
to dispatches received here today. So ill
has he become, the dispatchehs stated,
that he has been temporarily replaced as;
governor.
AUSTRIAN CABINET NAMED.
London. Dec. 21.-Count Clam-Matiniz to
whom was entrusted the task of forming
an Austrian cabinet following the failure
of Dr. Spitzmueller. has announced his
list of ministers, according to a News
agency dispatch from Vienna today. The
new cabinet has not yet been confirmed.
Count Clam-Martiniz has the double post
of premier and minister of agriculture
while the portfolio of minister of finance
was allotted to Dr. Spitzmueller.
1 TWO RUSSWARSHIPS SUNK.
New Tork, Dec. 21.-Russia's bombard
ment of Constanza, the great Rumanian
seaport, after its occupation by the Ger
mans, cost her at leagk. two and probably
three warships, according to Frank
Kahanic, an American oil man, who re
turned today on the Scandinavian-Ameri
can liner Oscar 11. Kahanic said he was
in the city at the time and while the
bombardment was On, two German sub
marines slipped among the Russian ves
sels and sank two of them, he declared.
SEAECH FOR U-BOAT BASE,
Havana, Dec. 21.-At the instance of the
French government, Cuban vessels today
began a careful search of the Keys at the'
eastern end of the island for a suspected:
German submarIne base. Prance, it was,
stated, has reason to suspect that the
Germans have a base in the vicinity and
the Cuban minister to France was re
quested to ask his government to make
a search.
H-3 KAY MAKE LAND TERP
Eureka, Cal., Dec. B.-The submarine
H-3, nine feet deep in sand, where she
grounded last Thursday, may be hauled
out, it ha~s been learned.
A proposal is being considered by the
Navy Department for a lumber crew to
build a skid road down the beach to the
vessel, pull her out with a donkey en
gin, and across half a mile of sand to'
Humboldt Bay, where she may be over
hauled and relaunched.
U. S. AkKEn TO SHARE II LOAN
[Pekin, Dec. 21.-The Unite Stales has
been invited by Russian, JaphesBrit
ish end French interests to share in the
......ed asaBanUMaW . ea r n. Inme
EMPLOYES LOSE
ON TECHNICALITY
Salary Increases Cut from Dis
trict Appropriation on
Point of Order.
When the House of Representatives
passed the District of Columbia appro
priation bill yesterday it failed to include
the 5 and 10 per cent increases in salaries
for employes below the $1,100 grade, but
Representative Page, of North Carolina.
In charge of the bill, announced to The
Herald last night that he would support
a Senate amendment that would Include
this provision for increased wages.
"I am in favor of giving a square deal
and the same consideration to all govern
ment employes." he said.
"I did not ask for a special iele for
this graded Increase section. because I
honestly felt that no point of order would
be raised against it. I was absolutely
sincere In that belief. You may say for
me that I will support any hmendment
that gives the District employes the
same increases that other employes will
enjoy.
"I do not care to predict what the
House and Senate will do, but the sense
of the members as I have felt It. is to
give all employee the same increase that
is provided in the le~islative bill."
Distriet umployes Disappointed.
Representatives of the District employes
seated in the gallery were visibly disap
pointed when a point of order made by
Representative Rainey, of Illinois. struek
the 5 and 10 per cent increases from the
District bill.
Discussing his motive in making the
roint of order, the Illinois Representative
said: "It was not my purpose to dis
criminate against the District employes
in objecting to this clause. I shall make
the same point against every other bill
carrying increases in salary, based upon
these lines.
"1 am not against salary Increases. I
aim, however, against general or blanket
increases tnat affect everybody without
any regard or consideration of the merits
of the indtviduaIl case. If Congre-s will
make a scientific revision of salaries and
determine In a si. ntific way what sal
aries should he Increased and what sal
aries should be reduced. I will support
a bill founded upon this investigation.
"I believe that this investigation and
data would show that the revision would
not be entirely upward.
"I am not against raising ,alaries
where an increase is justified. but I am
against advancing salaries of many em
ployes. who I am satisfied are already
overpaid."
West Out on Technicality.
Congress made short work of the
amendment granting the 5 and 10 pe"
cent in, reases. lepresentativ- lailne.
made his point of order against the
amendment. Which was ciearly sub
ject to the 'pirlt of order without a
protectmng rule. lie protested against a
general increase and denounced the
(5ONTiNUED ON PAGE 1IVE.
EX-DIPLOMAT PRAISES
ACTION OF PRESIDENT
Dr. A. D. White Sees Brighter Pros
pects for Peace.
(BY the international News service.)
Ithaca. N. Y., Dec. 21.-"President 'WIl
son has done the right thing." said Dr.
Andrew D. White, former Ambassador to
Germany and veteran diplomat, today.
"I thank him for it. I am not san
guine for i'are now. but I think tihe
prospects are brighter than they were a
few daya aco. I think that David Lloyd
George s spee-h shows that the door is
olsen.
"This talk of England's crushing Ger
many is child's talk. Even though the
English destry Germany's entire navy.
Germany c'n not be crushed. England
must realize that it is a drawn game.
Even admitting that England and France
will win a fair amount of success on the
western front Germany's eastern gains
constitute an offset which must be con
sidered in making the terms of peace."
POLICEMAN KILLS SELF
ON WAY TO PATROL DUTY
A. B. Clark, Private on Force for Fif
teen Years, Commits Suicide.
While on his way to report for duty
at the Eighth precinct itation yesterdam
Policeman A. B. Clark, for nearly fifteen
years a private on the local police force.
shot and killed himself with his own
police revolver near the corner of Florida
avenue and Fifth street northeast.
The policeman had just left his home
and was to report for duty at 4 o'clock.
His body was found by a fellow officer
and removed to Casualty Hospital. where
the doctor in charge pronounced him
dead. Coroner Nevitt gave a certificate
of suicide.
Policeman Clark was 38 years old and
leaves a wife and four children. Mrs.
Clark told the police yesterday her hus
hand had been suffering for several
years with a chronic sickness. He was
operated on about a year ago and re
cently was suffering much from the re
turn of the malady. No note or oisher
indication that the act was premeditated
was left.
AVIATOE WEDS ETHEL LEVY.
London. Dec. 21 -Claude Graham-White.
noted British aviator, and Ethel Levy.
one of the beat-known American actresses
and the former wife of George M. Cohan,.
were married here today.
This is the second matrimonial venture
for the avlatpr. Last January his wife.
who was Miss Dorothy Taylor, of New
York, secured a divorce from him In Lon
don. In the divorce action. "an American
actress" was cited.
ASKS GUARAJTEE FEdK FRENCH
London, Dec. 21.-Count Tarmoyvski, the
new Austrian atmbassdor to th United
States, has decided not to leavet fag Wash
ington until France. as well as Greet
BrItain, has granted him a safe cnduct,
says a. dispatch imom Visna toda.
OT ENTHI
RESIDENT
ISM PREVE
Lansing Explains His
Early Note Co.mmnut
Secretary of State Lansing's see
ond and final statement concerning
the President's peace note, was as
follows:
"I have learned from several
quarters that a wrong impression
was made by the statement that I
made this morning and I wish to
correct this impression. My in
tention was to suggest the very
direct and necessary interests
which this country, as one of the
neutral nations, has in the pos
sible terms which the elligerents
may have in mind, and I did not
Intend to intimate that the gov
ernment was considering any
change In its policy of neutrality
which it has consistently pursued
In the face of constantly increasing
diffculties.
"I regret that my words were
open to any other construction as
I now realize thev were.
"I think that the whole tone and
language of th" note to the belli
gerents sh.,ws its purloe with
out further commnt on moy part.
It is needlees to say that I am
unreservedly in sipport of that I
purpose and hope to see it ac
complished."
ENVOYS HASTEN
TO SEE LANSING
Practically All Diplomats Call
at State Department for
Conference.
a -____
Secretary Lansing had the hardest
day since he suceeded William Jen
nmgs ryan as premiter yesterday. It
was diplomatic day, when all diplo
mats may call without previous ap
pointment, and hardly a single diplo
mat failed to visit the department for
a personal word with the Secretary
and to ask for himself whether there
was anything to be learned that had
not been covered in the public an
nouncement. The German, British
Japanese, Italian and Brazilian Am
bassadors were among the first to call
They were quickly followed by Min
isters and Charges.
And for the first time since the
outbreak of the war, "Eddie" Savoy,
the Secretary's confidential imessen
ger, was forced to open three recep
tion roomts, one for e-tcih of the bellig.
erents, and one for the neutrals. But
even then there was a near collision
Just when Count son Bernstorfl
was being ushered from his confer
ence with Mr. Lansing. he came face
to face with Sir Cecil Spring-Rice,
the Briti'h Ambassador.
Envoys Do Net Speak.
Although before the war they had besn
very close friends. neither evinced the
slightest knowledge c, w no the other was,
although later the Cerman Ambassador
said "it was too dark in the corridor"
to see anyone.
Each of the visiting diplomats was given
an official copy of the President's note,
although all were familiar with the con
tents. They also were told by Mr. Lan.
sing that copies already had been sent
to their home governments. The entente
representatives admitted that they had
been greaty surprised by the action of
the United States. They had had no
warning that the President had ary such
course under construction and declined
to venture a guess as to the reception
the proposition would get when it reached
their home governments.
Count von Bernstorif maintained his
optimistic attitude. lie reiterated his
belief that this action would result in a
peace conference of the belliierents with
In a reasonable time. He insisted thai
the note of the United States Is bound te
have great weight, backed, as it will be,
by the influences of the neutrals.
Neutrals Keep Nom.
The neutral diplomatic representatives
refused to make any staternents for pub.
lication pending word from their home
governments. They said they had asC
doubt that their governments would en
clora'. ln *'+" statements
P'rsleent w ssun.
This was especially so * f the repre
sentatives of the "buffer" nations
Swi ,Denmark, Norway and
Sw enand of Hotland. At the lattes
legation It was said there was no doubt
that "the people of Holland will applaud
the action of the United States and sap
nort it in every way."
Senor Riano, the Spauldi Amabassador
said that he felt "very oftimistic" oval
the outiook for a restoration of peace
The position of the Eurepean nehu
representativea, judging fresre thail
guarded conversatIon, which distinctiveti
was not for publication, was that the'
felt that the President had squarely pui
up to the belligerents the hoessty of thei
protemslons that they were Ighting te
sasguard huanity and te their osw
nideese. If this was *e them, thei
iiat said, the endes - sae
met to a pease conferenoe,
Rteference to the peeblet eamosat of na
tions was said to be a spledi strategi<
strolls by the Priddet. It was felt tha
the majerlty of the beitigaenta favore
such a pbh and that they might sea as
sammmaan oammwe~ ta R.
BRITISH N
OVER P
OPTIM
ENGLISH PUBLIC
DERIDES OFFER
Speech of Lloyd George Point
ed to as Answer to All
Peace Proposals.
BONAR LAW AIRS VIEWS
Note Not Mentioned, but References
to Ending War Held
Obvious.
(By the Istermattomal News serewee.)
London, Dec. 21.-To say that the
press and public of Great Britain was
and still is dumfounded as the result
of brief cable dispatches telling of
President Wilson's note to the bellig
erent nations, is putting it mildly.
The news came like a thunderbolt
front a clear sky. Throughout the
day speculation and gossip as to its
meaning and possible effects held the
center of the stage. Late tonight the
people of London were still "at aea"
as to the exact contents of the note
from Washington, since the docu
ment will not be published until to
morrow mor'ning.
In the clubs, hotels, restaurants, in
public squares, street cars and tube.
everywhere the American note was
the chief subject of discussion. No
one tonight had even an inkling as to
what sort of reception it found in
official circles. At the foreign office
and in other authoritative quarters all
comment was flatly refused There
was no difficulty, however, about de
termining the popular frame of mind
on the subject. It was expressed on
all sides in the question:
Speeches Sameteut Answer.
'Were not the speeches of the Russian.
French and Italian foreign ministers,
and above all, the address of Lloyd
George in the house of commons auti
'iently plain to show how the Entente
feels with regard to peae possibilities?"
In the house of commons tonight
Fonar Iaw created a stir with a brief
speech whicl came as the climax to a
dramatie debate on the German peace
ofrMr. Not a word was mentioned about
Irr sident Wilson's note but it was clear
ly in everybody's mind.
,We are in the war today," said Bonar
Law, "and art suffering all Its terrible
agonic.s because we did trust the Ger
mans. because we did believe that the
crime committed on the world by them
could never be committed by any human
being.
"We are fighting-I say it honeatty-for
two things, for peae" now, yes, but for
s'curity in the time to come."
Ionar law admitted later to newspaper
correspondents that he had "said more
than I intended. but I couldn't help it."
Broached by Pacifist.
The subject of the central empire's
peace proposals was broached by Sir
John Simon, former home secretary
and a pacifist leader. Sir John con
ceded that Lloyd George's answer to
the Teuton offer was an expression of
the very hearts of the British people
and of the other entente countries. He
pointed out, however, that the Pre
mier's declaration had by no means
"slammed the door" on peace. It was
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
VATICAN TO GO-OPERATE
ON PEACE OVERTURES
Papal Envoy's Secretary, Speaking for
Prelate. Praises Wilson.
The Vatican is expected to co
operate with the President, if given
the opportunity. Speaking for Mgr.
Bonzano. the Papal Envoy, Father
Burrage, his secretary, said:
"President Wilson has taken a good
step. We devoutly hope that it will be
fruitful in inspiring such further ex
pressions from the belligerents as will
open the way for peace. The Presi
dent's communication should be instru
mental in securing from the belliger
ents such further expressions as will
open the way for peace."
The President's action was thme sub
ject of much comment at the Capitol.
Most of the Senators and Representa
tives applauded the action, but sever't,
of them expressed the fear that the
motive would be misconstrued because
of the fact that the allies have just
practically rejected the overtures of
Germany.
3AIL AND BIG FINE POR KNB,
WilmIngton, DeL., Dec. 21. -- Telltg
Judge Joslyn that he "just couldn't help
kissng her," and that be meant no hairn,
William It. Gilbert, in th# City Court
pleaded guIlty to assault and battery ons
Miss Catherine Young. Then Gilbert was
f'ned $3:i0 and sentenced to one year In
the liorkhouse.
MOBE GOLD 101 MORGAJ.
New York, Dec. 21.-Ten million dellarsa
In gold, consignied to ., f. Morgan & Co.,
from Canada, was delivered at the Phila
delphia Mint today. .This makes a total
of 362S,7OJ00 in gold reeived from .11
I sore by the - enen see Ja5mm
SIASTIC
S NOTE;
ILS HERE
LOOK TO BRITISH
TO BOOST PLANS
France and Russia Likely to
Resent Proposal, Oi
cials Believe.
EXPLANATION BY LANSMIG
Secretary of State Corrects Misappre.
hension Caused by His Early
Statement.
The conviction that peace in Eu
rope was measurably nearer last
night because of President Wilson's
note to belligerents and neutrals, is
growing here in the Nation's Capital.
I Administration officials and diplomats
of experience so declare.
They base their belief on their
knowledge that the President's frank
declaration of the desires of the peo
ple of the country that the belliger
ents clearly -proclaim what they are
fighting for must have great weight
in Great Britain. And, after all, of
ficials and diplomats alike agree that
the final decision is in England's
hands.
Germany must accept the sugges
tion of the head of the greatest neu
tral state. In effect she already has
avowed her desires to end the war
and her willingness to make ances
sions to bring about that result. Her
allies will follow her lead to any
length.
But whether the entente powers
can be influenced to co-operate in real
peace conferences still is ve un
certain., France and Russia a 'ex
pected to resen't the American note.
bengland PLaced Diferemtly.
Naturaly they cannot look with equan
imity on conrerring with an enemy whos
armnled for-es hold r-tions of their te
r.t..r. at Great itr .n i! in a differ
cnt po.tCn and Iein he- a,- h -
fill that ,he wi:l see the advisabily of
ttin, t- most se-i,-Js consideration to
he ggestjors fathered hv President
Wi eqr. The President hope' so. s-d
Atnivessador Page will he directed to use
ail of h:s influence to att:ii that ent.
And it i- admitted that (-reat Britain en
influence all of her allies for any plan
that meets with her approval.
Officials at the White House and State
Petartment said the President now will
"mark time" and await the responses
frem his note before even considerinc
whether any further step will be Possible.
Up to last night no word had been re
teived of the manner in which the note
was received. It wa" understood to hare
Sen delivered to the British and French
'oreitgn offIces during the day and State
1 partmeit officials saId it should reach
I of the Chancellories to which It was
Addressed not later than last night.
Alltes Hold Up Publieattom.
The British and French governments
had not yet made the note public In
t !-ir respective countries so far as In
formation was available here last niht
it was suggested in diplomatic circleg
that prcbably a cabinet council and an
exchange of opinion between the allies
would precede its being published in
any of the entente countries. It is ex
pected that the note will be published
In G-erniany a. soon as it is delivered
In Berlin.
The suggestion was made In entente
CONTINVCED ON PAGE IWO.
PEAE DOVE SNARED
BY SENATOR BORAH
Hitchcock Fails in Effort to Get Senate
Indorsenent of President.
An effort by Senator Hitchcock, of Ne
hraska. to haew the Senate indorse Pres
-dent Wilson's peace move. was blocked
yesterday by Se;.ator Borah. of Idaho.
Senator Borah objected to consideration
of Senator Hitchcock's resolution and the
measure was referred to the Foreign Re
tations Committee
Senator Stone, chairman of the For
elan Relations Committee. said he had nq
irntentIon of calling a meeting to consider
the resoluition. No action will be takes
until after the holidays.
Senator Ro'-sh in a startement said: "By
e consideratiea of the
- - - ..- not, of course, intend in
any sense to cr'ticse the action of the
President. He has undoubtedly aeted
upon full informuaio and after tuong
and mature refleetimn. But when I es
a vots In the neosts eae a mas et
this kind it must isfeet my Iui===
ansld not some one's else.
'I read the note on my way to the (hp
ltol arid had only partially read it at that.
For the Sc: ate of the United States, wt~h.
out the slightest considerata. with me
- possible time for reetion. to pas e,
II regolution embodying a patsier ov
5 dn' so stupendous a mttr. we en
r viet it of an utter want et a~edtss
'iof the delicate and tremendous psbis
I with which we are dealing.
' We all want peace. But I etsii f;t /
generally be conededa that to want pomo
maiad to secure at are two dissede paupe.
I eltiens. The one is a quaestem et ssg.
-mat. the other reaquree a vast egem
at judgment.
-*I somettms think w emta
what this war Is about.
t "I simply dai not propose to caM my vste
in nor take any step mnyself em I have
'I given the amatter ey es sM
whieh it ins 3 me on ma . S
