WEATHER* , k ^ TOT 'from Press to Home !
Fair, much colder tonight, with tem- JI m a. jA ^ ^ A- il L yf L ?????-~?
fair and cold; strong northw
winds. /' ! v 1^ J I ! {j/jSf? Within the Hoar"
Temperature for twenty-four hours T H * H H H H H H H ^\ H H JL^kU 1
ending p.m.; Highest. P.m. I il I Wf II V III I I I I I f) 19 * ^ *
yesterday; lowest, 35, at 6 a.m. today. IM H H . H H a H H H H H H ../ H H H . ?
on page 1MW ? l'^' #> ^ V^jl^
JJ 11 - ? f I | / Sworn Xet Circulation. Month of November.
CLOSl.VU KEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 19. 1916, Dnily Average, T0..%5T; Sunday, .VS.9S2.
No. 29.540. WASHINGTON, D. C.t FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. * ONE CENtT*
GERMANY IS REMY
10 STATE TERMS
If Allies Leave Door Open for
' Negotiations, Announcement
Will Be Made.
ENTENTE REPLIES NEAR
By the Assnriatcd Press.
LONDON, December 22, 1:50 p.m.? \n
Exchange Telegraph dispatch from The
Hague says it is announced semiofficially
that should entente allies in
their reply to the peace proposals of
the central powers leave the door open
for negotiations. Germany will make
known her chief peace terms immediately.
While the replies of the various allied
governments to Germany will be made
simultaneously and probably before
Christmas, as indicated, yet these
replies will not be textually identical
and will not take the form of a joint
reply. The reason for this is that
while all the entente allies are agreed
on the general principles of the reply,
each came into the war under different
conditions calling for a somewhat
different statement.
^ For example, the defense of small
nationalities was one of the main
causes bringing England into the war.
in defense of Belgium, whereas Belgium
and Serbia did not enter for that reason.
but because their territory was
invaded. Similar differences in the
conditions exists as regards France.
Rumania and other countries, so that
while all the* replies will agree on the
essential particulars or reparation a no
security they will not be identical.
Russian Official Reply
Emphatically to Reject
Germanic Proposals
B.r the Associated Press.
PETROGRAD, December 21. via Don-j
don. December 22.?Since the text of
the German peace proposal transmitted
through the American embassy to the |
Russian foreign office is identical with
the declaration already received unof- !
ficially through the press, the Russian
government, the Associated Press is informed.
considers that the offer of the
central powers has already been adequately
answered.
The official reply, in conjunction with
Russia's allies, will be made purely
as a matter of form and will contain
no new point. It is stated that it will
embody official sentiment heretofore
> expressed and will emphatically reject
the proposal on the ground that its
Hifueness and lack of sincerity are so
regarded by the Russian government
do not permit of its serious consideration.
/-i *
uccpesi uisappumtmeiii
in Lloyd George Speech
Voiced by Berlin Paper
K.v the A**?eiated Pres*.
BERLIN, via Lbndon. December 22.?
The Vorwaerts. which was one of the
first newspapers in Germany to talk of
peace, expresses deep disappointment
over the speech of Premier David Lloyd
George. The paper cites passages in
the speech which it claims the only
logical inference is that, firstly, the
entente refuses to make peace until
it can do so upon the ruins of Germany's
military power; secondly, the
entente, because Germany breaks treay i
ties. wjll make no treaty with Germany
at all. but will itself take substantial
guarantees by force of arms; thirdly,
that Germany must swallow the entente's
terms whole and unseen before
Lloyd George will condescend to negotiate.
Lloyd George, says the Vorwaerts,
speaks like a judge in robes thundering
a sentence against a poor sinner. It
also compares him to a superman ,and
to employers who during a strike demand
that the workmen resume work
unconditionally.
Sees Stern Rejection.
The Vorwaerts sees everywhere in
the language of the speech a stern rejection
of Germany's offer to negotiate,
* and hence it concludes that Lloyd
George is illogical in finally saying
that the entente must wait until it
*. h*-ars Germany's terms .
"The whole tenor of the speech," says
the Yorwaerts, "shows that Lloyd
George uses the absence of terms in
Germany's note as a mere pretext,
whereas the real reason for his refusal
of our offer is that Germany wants to
negotiate rather than to surrender unconditionally."
The Yorwaerts concludes
with an attack on the socialist
seceders. and declares that the Hritish
premier iias shown the falsity of their
allegation that the only obstacles to 1
peace are Germany's refusal to negotiate
and the abandonment of annexations.
Austrians Expect War
to Go On. Saying Britain
Will Decide Course
Yfl-'NNA, Leccmber 22.?The Yienna
rev. papers assume generally that the
i-'riiiSh government's attitude will de*"
, ;ermine 'he course of the entente pow ers.
v hich course, the editorials unanimously
p unt out, will be a continuation
of the war.
% T he N? Freie Pre: se sa\s: "Lng>
-and alleges that she is in the war to
: >v?* is mis impossible b'y
peaceful means or even difficult? Reparation.
ir: the sense of reconstruction,
is possible, in the sense of giving satisfaction
it is not."
The b'remdenblatt says: "While Son,ii11o
(Italian foreign minister) has not
rejected peace, Lloyd Oeorgc, in the
apacity of dictator of Kngland and
dictator of the entente, rejec ts it. The
day probably is near when Lloyd
<;eorge will regret having placed the
entente's head in a noose by failing to
meet the central powers half way."
Repaired Stained Glass Not Dutiable
NKW YORK. December 22.?Repaired
pieces of stained glass for church windows
are to be admitted free of duty
in keeping with a decision handed
down in a test case by the board of appraisers.
The Treasury Department
lias hitherto been exacting duty on repaired
glass at 30 per cent ad valorem.
According to the attorney who brought
' the test suit many windows arc damaged.
and in many instances repair
parts must be obtained from foreign
studios ir. which the original windows
were made.
* |
$3,500 YET NEEDED'
FOR OPPORTUNITIES
More Than Half Total Amount
Required Remains to Be
Contributed.
ADDITIONAL SUMS TODAY
The Associated Charities today announced
that a little more than $3..">00
still is needed to take care of the fourteen
Christmas opportunities, representing
fourteen Washington homes
broken by death or desertion of the
wage-earner, by illness or physical dis- ,
ability, for which the Washington public
is asked to contribute at this time.
Many subscriptions are being received,
not only at the office of the Associated
Charities. 023 H street, north- '
west, but through The Star as well.
| All subscriptions will be acknowledged
I in The Sta~. The following contrihu'
tions were turned in today through The
! Star:
i
I Previously acknowledged.... $3S3.73 j
F. B. N., most needy 10.00
P. S. K.. Nos. 8. 9. 10, $1 each. . . 3.00
L. C. E., No. 3 1.00 '
L. C. E.. Nos. 5. 10. $2 each.... 4.00 ]
(J. V. E.. Nos. 3, 10, $1 each 2.00 ,
E. D. F . No. 9 2.00
j M. F. W.. No. 14 1.00 1
J Mrs. C. W. B.. No. 4 1.00 1
! N. N. R. Nos. 3. 4. $1 each 2.00 ,
! O. B.. No. S 3.00 !
i II. M. L... most needy 1.00 1
j T. M. Pose. 50 cents each T.im> j
j G. E. C.. most needy 1.00
| A friend, most needy 5.00 ^
A friend, most needy 2.00; (
M. R. S.. most needy 10.00 j
C. A. R.. No. 4 1.00 \
S. T. J.. No. 3 5.00 i 1
i l
Total $447.73) j
i t
Opportunity Xo, 1?Bringing the Chll- !
dren Home.?Two years ago, when her
husband died, leaving her without visible
means of support. Mrs. Y. made a
little home for her two girls and left ;
the boys in an orphan asylum. Now ,
they are back home. One girl is working
and the mother is trying to estab- 1
lish herself in her old trade. To make 1
this experiment in homomaking a sue- <
cess $12 a week, or $624 for the year, J
is needed.
Previously acknowledged, $113; T. P. <
E.. 20 cents: a friend. $1; R. T. L., 50 i
cents; Mrs. W. J. A., SI; schoolboy, 10
cents; J. M. D.. 45 cents; M. Philipsborn.
through The Star, $5; G. W. N.,
through The Star. $1; Charles A. Stevens.
through The Star, $1; cash,
through The Star, $2; Mrs. F. L., $2;
M. A. T., 51; A. M. and S. M. 1-.. $4; M. I
B. C.. $3.50; Doris and Ralph, 25 cents; 1
E. E., $1. Total, $150. Still needed, i
$474. J
I'
Opportunity Xo. 2?Keeping Clone to i 1
Her Children.?A bricklayer In the j
making, that is what John, aged four- j *
teen, the oldest boy in the family, wants
to be, thus following in the footsteps j 1
of an uncle who has been almost a i '
father to Mm.' ? Hts owrr father de- f '
serted about five years ago, just before ; '
the birth of his baby brother. Five dol- I '
lars a week, or $260 a year, will be re- j I
quired to preserve a home for this family
of mother and four children.
Previously acknowledged, $91; 7. B. 1
B., $5; P. C. H., $2; a friend, $3; E. M. J 1
D.. 25 cents; M. Philipsborn & Co., < 4
through The Star, $5: Charles A. Ste- 1
vens, through The Star, $1; E. F.. 1
through The Star. $1; K. K.. through '
The Star. $6; Mrs. F. L, $2: x\r. A. T.. $1;
A. M. and S. M. I-.. $4; Ralph and Dora, '
35 cents. Total, $122.50. Still needed. '
$137.50. j
Opportunity \o. 3?A Child's Plea.? \
"Can't you rent Just one room and take ,
us to it and call it home?" pleaded ,
eight-year-old Johnnie. The father ,
had brutally treated the mother and 4
then deserted. No trace of him has '
since been found. Friends heard the 1
boy's plea for a home, and now Johnnie ,
and his brother are with their mother. I
Their mother works steadily, but can- j
not make enough to cover the whole i
family budget. Thirty dollars a month. |n
or $360 a year, is needed to answer j c
Johnnie's plea. j
Previously acknowledged, $95.50; May!,
Ethel. 50 cents; P. C. H., $2; C>. A. E., !
50 cents; M. Philipsborn & Co., through : J
The Star, $5; G. W. M., through The j
Star, $1; Charles A. Stevens, throughj.
The Star. $2; R.^ K., through The Star. '
*o, airs. r. x>., .?i. i $], ; A. M. J v
and S. M. L., $4. Doris and Ralph, 25 s
| cents; F. L. L. IT.. $3. Total, $122.75. s
| Still needed. $237.25.
Opportunity No. 4?Fighting Alone.? 0
"Alone I must try to make a home for I o
the children I do not want to give t
them away." says this hrave mother of .
two boys and two girls, the oldest ten
years of age. All effort to locate the n
deserting husband has failed. Several
people have offered to adopt these attractive
children, hut the mother only
hugs them the closer and 'works the '
harder. Seven dollars a week, or $364 11
[a year, will enable this mother to ke?j> u
! on fighting for her home. j (
Previously acknowledged, $7f?; R. V. j '
j B., through The Star. $2: J. E. R , ! v
| through Th<- Star. $5; M. Phiiipsborn \ r
! Co.. through The Star, $5; VV. R S.. j \
i $285. Total, $364. < losed. j '
: lr
j Opportunity No. "??A Cb?*erful Op- ; '
tiinint.?Her husband, long ill in the;,
j hosoital. Mrs. Jones, as we will call her. j
I is fighting against heavy odds. She i ,
jan<i her oldest daughter do laundry > f
j work and sewing at borne, but then j t
annot make enough to support this r
I household of five. The mother needs ..
jari additional $5 a week, or- $260 a year,
: to meet expenses.
! Previously acknowledged, $47.25; P. C. ^
H . $2; Mrs. W. S . $1; J. B D. $2; VV S
N . $5: M Philipsborn. through The y
istar, $5: VV A. II Church, thro igh The ?
; Star, i25- Ci. VV. M.f through The Star,
$ 1 : Charles A. Stevens, through The x
Star. $1; R. T< through The Star. $6; ,
! I,. N . through The Star. $5; Mrs. F. !.., ,
. $2; M. A. T.. $1. A. M and S. M I. $.v }
i Doris and Ralph, 50 cents. Total,',
$108.75. Still needed, $121.25. j x
I i
j Opportunity No. fl?Heavily llnudi- j
'enppe?l. Hut Very t.ratefiil.? W ho j
! would have believed that there were f
! such good people in the world'."" is what . t
j this widow said when told that she was 1 *
j ;o have a weekly pension. She is part- j
I t.. a ?.<t >1 > VJ ImH til
, . ........ . " "'* fit V- I
'eral operations, so she is only able to be
a homemaker and not a bread winner.
There are live children in this home, ali
of school age. Ten dollars a week, or
$:,20 a year, is needed for this widowed
and partly blind mother with live chii- i
di e 11 10 support
Previously acknowledged. $I25.?0; It
K. F. S3; Dorothy. $2; I\ ?*. ij., $_?; yj
K. N . through The Star. $f>; K. '
| Knight. through The Stat. at. Phil- \
j ipsborn &; Co.. through The Star, i
W. M.. through The Star, $J; Charles
|A. Stevens, through The Star, Si; R. K..
through The Star, $6; Mrs. F. $2A.
M. and S. M. I? . S5; D. B. 1'., $5; Doris
and Ralph. 23 cents; J. VV., $l. Total.
J168.7a. Needed. $3iil.25.
Oppoprtunlty No. 7.?Closed. $f?2.23.
Opportunity No. 8? Home Voeatlonnl
Training.?Four little girls, the oldest
leven. earh with her daily task, are
sharing the household duties of mending,
washing dishes, sweeping and doing
errands, while the mother is recovering
from a serious operation. Besides
tbis. last summer the children had
(Continued on Second Page.) ~
f
CHRISTMAS MONEY
ARK AT HEN
District Troops Deeply Touched
hv fienernsitv nf Pen
J V.V..V. WV.VJ -
pie of Washington.
PREPARE FOR BIG DINNER
_______ j
by j. ceosby McCarthy,
Staff Correspondent. j
SAX ANTONIO. Tex., Camp Wilson.
December 22.?Announcement of the
arrival here of the money contributed
by the people of Washington through
The Star to buy Christmas gifts for
the militiamen from the District of Columbia
has gladdened the hearts of
the men of the 3d District Infantry and
r>f Troop A.
They are not only happy over the fact
that Santa Claus is coming to see them,
although 3.GOO miles from home, but
Lhey are deeply touched over the generous
remembrance of them by the
men, women and children of Washngton.
The soldiers are not unmindful that
the contributions have been made by
persons in all walks of life who have
their own kinsmen and friends to remember,
and this thought has made j
the liberal sum contributed all the j
more appealing.
With $1,000.50 with which to buy J
presents for the members of the 3d i
Regiment and $77..".4 for Troop A. tne j
pro rata distribution will be a fraction j
jver 'XI cents per man.
Wholesale establishments of this city
tre being: searched today to obtain the |
L>est quality and largect quantity of ;
jseful gifts that the money will buy.
Purchases are to be confined as far as
possible to standard brands of articles
hat are known throughout the country.
Boxes From Home.
With tons of Christmas boxes, packages
and letters already received from
their friends and relatives, an?l Christmas
only three davs off, the militiamen
from the District of Columbia are
further assured that their Christmas
here in the borderland is to be a happy
>ne. Already the Christmas spirit rules
the camp.
Military duties have been as light as
possible for the men, and not until well
into next week will they be expected
to buckle down to hard work again.
Mess se gear.'s are working overtime
getting In their supplies for the big
Christmas day tinners that are to be
served to the soldiers. The men are
bringing in large quantities of mistletoe
to decorate their mess halls, this
being the only Christmas green available
in this section.
Tonight about 150 men of the 3d District
Infantry are to take part in a
?oldiers' chorus of more than a thousand
voices, which is to sing carols at
an open-air community Christmas celebration,
to be held in one of the city
rjarks. under the auspices of the San
Antonio Rotary Club. Instrumental
music is to be furnished by a great assemblage
of musicians from the 3d District
Infantry Band and from twelve
3ther bands here in camp. The District
soldiers are to assist the Rotarians in
Retributing baskets of food and presents
to the poor of the. city.
Chaplain Smith today brought into
lamp the t'hristmas tree which is to
be erected in the V. M. C. A. building,
id joining the 3d Regiment c amp. and
tomorrow a detail of men will set it in
position to be trimmed. Plans under
way for the Christmas tree festivities
0 be held Christmas eve indicate that
the District soldiers will participate in
1 round of gavety that will dispel
>racticallv all svmntoms of homesick
3 ess.
l/ight March in Gale.
After a nine-mile night march through
. "norther" with the faces of the men j
ut by icy winds and their fingers and |
ars numb from cold, the 3d District
nfantry reached Camp Wilson early |
esterday. The temperature was down
o twenty-four when the companies
vere marched into their streets and
rere ordered to pitch their tents arid
et. up their stoves. The men were so
tiff from the cold that it was almost
mpossible for them to carry out the
rder in the face of the forty-mile gale
f wind that was blowing evert though |
hey realized that the sooner they got
heir tents up the sooner they could
;et shelter.
Tt was the most severe night the
nilitiam'-r from the District ever have
ncountered in the open. After a day
-f summer weather the "norther" bean
to blow, bringing with it a drop
f nearly sixty degrees in temperature,
"he men were wet from perspiration
.hen they completed the first fourteen
uiles of their hike and arrived at
iluemels Wednesday afternoon about
o'clock.
They set up their shelter tents ex-!
keeling to spend the night there. Hy j
lusk the wind was blowing a gale and]
he temperature had begun to fall, but ;
t was not until several hours later :
hat Col. Lyman Kennoit, acting briga- j
lier general, issued orders to resume j
he inarch at 1 o'clock yesterday;
norning. although the soldiers did not ;
it. first relish the prospects of a night i
narch. Within a short time after the;
ssuance of the. order, when they lay j
shivering in their shelter tents, with !
very available article of clothing and i
ilankets wrapped around them, they
I i.,u Uiut thov K? I
varmftr marching than in camp. After'
he start for this place was made none ,
?f the men wanted to stop for the j
;ustomary ten-minute rest in each ;
iour because of the cold, and <*ol. Ken- ;
ion permitted them to continue on
heir way practically without inter uption.
As soon as the District militiamen
>itched tiicir tents orders were issued
xcuaing them from all duties duringhe
day. After breakfast was served!
everybody turned in for a hard earned!
deep. Very few responded when the |
100:1 mess call was sounded.
TO BREED OWN GAME BIRDS, j
A. A. Hill Says U. S. Is Independent I
of Foreign Countries.
NEW YORK. December 22.?The
United States is now independent of
foreign countries in the matter of
breeding game birds and in future will
not have to obtain stock from abroad,
said A. A. Hill, vice president of the
game conservation commission, last
night at the organization's annual game
dinner.
So many game birds are being bred
in this country, said Mr. Hill, that
within a year or two the supply will be
so plentiful the cost of living will be
affected.
The members of the association in
this country bred 100,000 game birds in
1915, but in the year just ending they
have bred more than a million and they
expect to breed ten million next yeaxv
... -,V. J
J N*
BRITAIN WITHHO
ON PRESIDEN'
A. Bonar Law Annoui
mons Statement W:
Present?V ie\*
By the Associated Press. '
LONDON*. December 22, 1:2.*> p.m.?The j
British government will make no state- .
ment at the present in regard to I'resi- j
dent Wilson's peaee note, considering i
' - > * Kn tloolt with >
Jt a question mat ?_-??? v-.c-.w
only in communication with the other j
members of the entente. Announce- j
ment to this effect was made in the
house of commons today by Andrew i
Bonar Law, chancellor of the exchequer
and government leader in the house. j
Mr. Law was asked whether a statement
could be made regarding the ,
American note. He replied: "It must'
be obvious to the house that this is a (
question that can only be dealt with in j
communication with our allies and that .
it is absolutely Impossible to make a j
statement now."
Parliament was prorogued this afternoon
without the members being given
any further information regarding
President W ilson's note or what action
the government contemplated with re- j
spec to it.
Neither the note nor the German
peace proposal was mentioned in the.
king's speech, read in both houses.
The speech from the throne was one j
of the briefest on record. It expressed !
confidence in the ultimate victory o? I
the allies, and determination to prosecute
the war "until we have vindicated j
the rights so ruthlessly violated by our'
enemies, and established the security |
of Europe on a sure foundation."
President Wilson's note is given the '
honor of the biggest display in the !
morning papers, relegating the war j
news to a minor place. Head lines |
such as "President Wilson's Strange
Peaos Essay." "President Wilson's
Peace Peeler," "Amazing Note," indicate
in slight measure the astonishment {
caused by tne comrnunicauun. xuucu ;
speculation is indulged in as to the
motives or causes which inspired the s
President to send such a note after his
assumption of the attitude, that he
would not mediate unless invited by
both groups of belligerents.
One section of the press, utterly rejecting
any idea of tin* possibility * of
peace negotiations as tiie outcome of
the recent German note flatly attributes
the President's action to the success of
propaganda conducted by fount von '
Bernstorff in America, and what they describe
as the masterly inactivity of the
late British government.
The more general irnnression Is that
the agitation in America for an embargo
on food exports had much to do
with Mr. Wilson's action. It is also
suggested that the President may have
received special information from the
German government, and is aware of the
extent to which Germany is nrenared to
go toward "reparation, restitution and
guarantees." This is the view, expressed
by the Daily Chronicle. Some discussion
is also devoted to the chances of Congress
passing food export measures and
possible an embargo on cotton arid war .
materials.
Surprise Felt at Note.
Absolute and startling surprise was
the first feeling in Great Britain
aroused by the note. The government
was surprised, and frankly admitted so.
I
THE STAR
tomorrow, Saturday,
December 23, will go to
press at 1 p.m. and be
immediately delivered
throughout the city.
Classified advertising
must be in by 10 a.m.
' /
hhomhhbbbmhhhhbhhimhhbhh
? - ^
CHRISTMAS STRATEGY.
LDS COMMENT
r WILSON S NOTE
ices in House of Comill
Not Be Made at
rs of tke Press.
Members of parliament were equally surprised
when the news spread through
octn 'nouses during the afternoon session.
The newspaper offices were surprised,
ami undoubtedly the public was equally
surprised, when it read Ambassador
Page's statement to the foreign office
in the mornintr papers. All information
from America in the last few days, both
in dispatches from the usually best informed
Washington correspondents and
in advices to the banking and business
firms, has said that the President had
no intention of taking any steps toward
peace or making any move in
Kuropean affairs. When he transmitted
Germany's no'e to Great Britain without
comment it was assumed that this
action represented his general attitude
toward the Kuropean situation.
Most of the newspapers commented
upon this course with satisfaction. The
tenor of their comments will be that
Premier Lloyd George's rpeech and the
speeches of the Russian. French and
Italian statesmen have affirmed the ententW
allies' position, ami that unless
the German government gives notice of
the nature of the proposals which it
would bring to a conference the allies
cannot accept the invitation to sit
around a Kuropean council table for a
discussion of its terms.
Views of London Papers.
When the editorials of the British
newspapers were written Secretary
Lansing's statements had not been received.
No London papers, not even the
semi-pacifist Daily News, welcome
America's action, while the Daily
Chronicle, always a leader in movements
promoting Anglo - American
friendship, particularly objects to its
general tenor and says that the note
serves to second Germany's advances.
Bonar Law's speech in the house of
commons was regarded at Westminster
as a direct answer to President Wilson.
It was delivered witii a degree of
feeling, which Mr. Law. the most unemotional
of statesmen, had never displayed
before. Corp. Hastings B. L.
Smith, to whom he replied is a liber.nl
member who opposed conscription, and
he spoke as one from the ranks at the
front.
The Morning Post in an editorial re
gards President Wilson's "detachment"
as passing belief and "reminiscent of
the attitude of the antique gods." Going"
through the President's statements
in a highly ironic vein the Post says:
"We had supposed by this time even
the Americans realized what the nations
were fighting about, but as they
profess ignorance we shall attempt to
explain the matter to them. Germany
set out to conquer Europe."
If the United Kingdom, like the
United States, had stood aside, the
Morning Post argues, "Germany might
have succeeded, and then with Europe
conquered there wb'uld have remained
the United tSates.
"Does President Wilson suppose that
the Monroe doctrine and the American
navy together would have been sufficient
to defend the vast, rich and almost
unprotected territory of North
and South America?" asks the Morning
Post. "We are fighting for the lives,
possessions ami liberties of ourselves
and our allies, and, lastly, we
are fighting for the lives, possessiotis
and liberty of the rest of the world, including
the two Americas, and we replyfrankly
to the President that these
can only be secured by the defeat of
Germany."
Note Called Inopportune.
The Daily Telegraph says nobody
will impute anything but the worthiest
oAniotives and the sincerest purpose
of impartiality between the combatants
to President Wilson, but considers
his note inapportune. The Telegraph
believes that a great many of
President Wilson's fellow citizens will
take the same view, and says thinks
it is a misunderstanding of the high
interests of humanity to believe they
can best be served by bringing; about
peace. It asks what the north would
~~ (Continued on Ninth Page.)
7 ,j
KilP
THr-Y
\ Ai
\
FLOERAL SHIPPING
BOARD IS CWSEN
! President Wilson Nominates
Five Men, Three Democrats,
Two Republicans.
I President Wilson today nominated the
I following to be members of the governj
ment shipping board:
William Denman of San Francisco.
Bernard N. Baker of Baltimore.
John A. Donald of New York.
John Barber White of Kansas City.
Mo.
| Theodore Brent of New Orleans.
! The shipping board is to put into ef!
feet the law intended to develop a
j naval auxiliary and to help in the up
building of the American merchant
j marine.
Mr. Denman is an admiralty lawyer
j and a democrat.
i Mr. Baker is a democrat, and has had
I long experience as a ship owner and
j operator.
j Mr. Donald, democrat, of New York,
has had lifelong experience in the
steamship business.
Mr. White, republican, is a lumber
j man with wide knowledge of ocean
j transportation.
j Mr. Brent, also a republican, has had
I lengthy experience in railroad and
traffic affairs generally.
The members of the board will receive
salaries of $7,500 a year each and
Congress has authorized the Secretary
of the Treasury to issue $50,000,000 to
purchase or build ships.
The board, under the law. will have
general supervision over freight rates
in American waters. It is empowered
to organize a tifty-million-dollar corporation
to build or buy merchant
ships. Forty-nine per cent of the stock
1 wiil be available for public subscription.
and that which/is not subscribed
will be taken bv the government.
-The ships built or bougut will be
available to lease or charter by private
interests, but may be operated by the
government should private concerns
fail to take them. The intent of the
law aside from providing or replacing
ships for American commerce removed
by the war is to open up trade routes
which private capital does not consider
I yet profitable enough for it to enter, j
i TWO BUREAUS CLOSE
DOORS FOR CHRISTMAS
Government Printing- Office and Bu- j
reau of Engraving Shut TJp Shop i
Until Tuesday.
: j
The government printing- office and the j
bureau of engraving: and printing closed 1
i their doors this afternoon until Tuesday
morning, while other departments of j
the government-will not close for Christ- '
' mas until noon tomorrow,
j Empjoyes of the two big government j
plants, however, will work all day the:
Saturday before New Year, whereas the i
employes, of all the other departments
will get a half holiday ori that day.
On account of stopping and starting
the machinery at the printing plants it
has been the custom at these government
establishments to have a whole
holiday the Saturday before Christmas,
when such an exigency arises, instead of
two half holidays, to save shutting down
the machinery twice.
Secretary Daniels today issued an order
for the closing of the Navy Department
and the Washington navy yard tomorrow
at noon in order to permit the
employes to prepare for the observance
of Christmas day. It required special
authority from the President to make
the half-day holiday apply to the local
navy yard.
/
iV,.- , v'.- -
PARKS OF NATION
CONFERENCE THEME
Sessions Will Be Held Under
the Auspices of the Interior
Department.
TO HAVE SPECIAL FEATURES
[ What the promoters promise will
j prove to be the most impressive public
J gathering" ever held to deal with the
I .u. ?: ,1 ?1. o r\ e fhi?
t>ui?j*rc:i. wi m*5 iiani/uai ?"
country is scheduled to begin in this
city the morning of Tuesday. January
2. On that day the Secretary of the
Interior. Franklin K. I^ane, will open a
national parks conference in the XeKv
National Museum, which has been arranged
for by the federal department
over which he presides, and which will
continue throuehout the week. ?
Three sessions?morning, afternoon
and evening?have been scheduled f<?r
each day. with special features at almost
every one of these meetings, at
which steps necessary for the welfare
of the parks will be discussed^nnd ideas
looking to their improvement exchanged.
The speakers invited include conservation
enthusiasts in all sorts of
governmental and other official positions.
both of this country and of Canada,
as well as those in private life.
Views of Parks to Be Shown.
The evening sessions, which, as in
| the case with all, are to he held in
the auditorium of the museum, promise
j to be of particular interest, both tnov!
ing picture and stereopticon talks bej
ing scheduled for these occasions. Four
! rooms on the ground floor of the building
will be filled with an exhibit of
views of the parks and of the Grand
Canyon of the Colorado, now a national
monument, these views including both
lithographs and photographic enlargements.
Among the special subjects to be discussed
on the different days are the
educational and recreational uses of
the parks, the development and conservation
of their wild animal life and
the increasingly important question of
travel to and through the tracts by
motor vehicle. Questions which are expected
to prove of special interest are
those of the creation of the Grand Canyon
and Mount McKinley as new national
parks and the substantial enlargement
of Sequoia I'ark. It is the
hope of those who have arranged the
conference that this latter will ulti!
matelv inrlmle the beautiful Tehipite
valley. Mount Whitney and Kings iiiver
Canyon.
Exhibit of Forty Paintings.
Perhaps the most striking feature?
one that should appeal not only to conservation
enthusiasts, but also to the
| art lovers who are so numerous in
I VVushincrtftn is tr> he the first Annual
exhibition of national parks paintings.
This will include some forty canvases
some of them already known by reputation.
by eminent artists, which will
be brought together for the occasion
from various points. This exhibit,
which is being arranged for by Dr.
William H. Holmes, head curator of the.
New National Museum, is to be placed
in the national gallery upstairs, and
will remain on view for one month.
The coming conference, state Interior
i Department officials, is in direct line
with a movement begun two years ago
in response to a demand for and in!
terest in proper park development on
t a large scale, and featured by the creation
by Congress last August of the
j "national nark service." The depart :
ment is at present engaged in sending
! out numerous invitations to attend,
j Other somewhat s'milar conferences
have been held, but none of the propori
tions of the one planned.
Among the Speakers.
A mting the many speakers will be
| Stephen T. Mather, assistant to tlie Sec;
retary of the Interior, in charge of naj
tional parks; Representatives .Scott Ferris
of Oklahoma and Irvine ]?. 1.enroot
of Wisconsin. Carl Vrooman, assistant
j secretary of agriculture: R. R. Marshall.
' snnerintendent of t he natinnrtl i?nrU-?- i
! B. Harkin. commissioner of the Dominion
1 parks of ( anaiia; Gilbert II. Grosvenor.
| editor of the National Geographic Maga zine:
Henry S. Graves, chief forester of
! the Fnited States; Charles 1?. Waleott.
i secretary of the Smithsonian Instituition;
Arthur iC. Bestor, president of the
: Chautauqua Institution: George D.
Pratt, conservation commissioner of New
! York state: Knos Mill*? of Colorado, Dr.
| Hugh M. Smith. Cnited States commist
sioner of fisheries: William H. Holmes,
(head curator of the National Museum:
; Ifenry Fairfield Osborn, curator of the
| American M"seum of Natural History,
j New York: Mrs. John Dickinson Sherman,
conservation chairman of the Gen!
eral Federation of Women's Clubs: W. A.
j Welch, chief engineer of the Palisades
j Interstate Park: Frank X. Doubleday of
j New York of Doubleday, Page & Co.. and
| Orville Wright.
CHARGES ACT TO LOVE AFFAIR.
Young Woman Confesses to Sending
Poisoned Candy Through Mai!.
j r.os ANGEt.ES. Gal.. December 22.?
jGertrude Cox. a young clerk in a local
! store, confessed, the police said today,
that she sent a box of poisoned candy
I received through the mail two days
j ago by another clerk. Miss I,eonora
ICarr, and turned over to the authorities
by the latter for investigation. The
| box of candy was addressed to both
girls at their place of employment.
Miss Cox. attributing her act to
| despondency over a love affair, said
she expected to receive the candy from
{the postman, fat some aim warn ner
J friend. Instead. Miss (7arr received the
' candy. Miss Cox is under treatment
today at the receiving hospital, where
{she was taken in a state of collapse.
DAY IN CONGBSSS.
Senate:
Met at noon. j
Senator Gallinger blocked ail- !
; other effort by Senator Hitchcock !
to get consideration of resolution
indorsing President Wilson's ,
peace message to belligerent na- |
tions.
Houses
Met at 11 a.in. j
Leaders prepared for adjourn- !
ment for holiday recess. Decern- I
ber 22-January 2.
Elected Representatives Vena i
bte (Miss.), to naval: Wingo |
(Ark.), to mines com in it tees.
Adopted conference report on ! !
Ferris G40-a? re stock raising j
homestead bill. i
Considered emergency bill for
additional diversion of water for
power at Niagara Falls and the
diplomatic appropriation bill.
/
ft
VIEWS OF FOREIGN
POWERS ON PEACE:
NOTE ARE AWAITEK
Diplomats Eagerly Watching
for Indications of Attitude
of European Neutrals.
MAY FOLLOW U. S. LEAD
IN PLEA TO BELLIGERENTS*
Surprise at Growing Significance of
President's Move Widespread. I
London Press Criticism.
I
\\ nil tile purposes of President
: \\ ilson's note to belligerents daro,
lied bv official statement on th$!
1 subject, the attention of thgj,
I United States lia< turned to th<V
' reception of the note in the for*
eign capitals.
Diplomats here are eagerly watching*
| for indications of whether the Enroll
! pean neutrals will follow the lead of
the Dnited States and make a similar
i appeal to the warring powers
There is growing feeling that the
J I'nited States hopes to become the
! clearing house for views and possibly
for terms of the belligerents. Several
I of the diplomats have advised their
governments to that effect in order to
; guide them in their replies.
Surprise Is Widespread.
Surprise at the fast-growing significance
of The President's move was exj
pressed on all sides, where it was
! pointed out that at first the opinion
prevailed that the note itself vas
: merely a "feeler" and that the object
; most immediately contemplated in isj
suing" it was the receipt of some sort
j of definition from the various warring
i nations. That the President should
i let it be known indirectly to the diplo!
mats, for their guidance, that he went
ven farther than that and''counted on
an absolutely frank reply from the belligerents
which would lead to an actual
opportunity for negotiations, proved only
less surprising than the actual note
itself.
This feeling was increased by Secretary
Lansing's authorized statement
yesterday that 110 soundings had been
taken of the attitude of the belligerents
addressed and that the note had been
sent entirely regardless of the central
powers' proposal or of the reply of
Lloyd-George.
The question very much to the fore
today was whether the European neutrals
would present a united appeal.
The Spanish and Swiss representatives
here have been at the State Department
repeatedly since those proposals
came out and probably know fully the
plans of this government.
Position of European Neutrals.
! It is pointed out that the European
| neutrals have suffered beyond any
i other nations not actually involved in
1 the war and that peace is more essen!
tial to them than to any but the actual
i belligerents. In addition, they liavo
J none of the bitterness of war and none
j of its ambitions and are anxious more
for the coming of peace than for the
accomplishment of any other purpose.
Nevertheless, their geographical position
between the two contending tones
had been so dangerous that up to now
| they have been able to do no more
man maunam uioir neuiramy wuuuiu
mixing in the struggle, even to suggesting
peace.
Part of this danger is. however,
: thought removed I y tlie American aci
lion.
(Jradual ckirittcation among The *>n{
tente diplomats here of lite President'ssi
J purpose, and indications that they
would advise their governments to re;
ply in a friendly spirit proved a source
! of deep gratilication today, as it was
1 pointed out both in the note itself and
| by Secretary Lansing that one of the
i dangers was that The alies would conj
sider tin-* step as a pro-CJcrman mo\e.
Kvery effort was made to remove tnis
: impression and to have the note considered
entirely apart from any other
: events. The entente diplomats, at. first
very fearful, have now accepted this
view.
Charge Crew reported to the Stale
Department today that the President's
, peace note had been received in Berlin.
Lonuon Criticism Not unexpected.
i Karly London press comment that the
! note was painful because i*. said the
objects of the belligerents were praclii
caliy the same was not unexpected
j here, where attention already has been
drawn to the fact that President Wilson
specifically declared that the published
j views of ttie opposing statesmen lefc
j thai impression.
it is stated otiicially that the Presij
dent would not presume !< say that the
two groups were lighting for the same
.object, but mere! > that their ollicial
spokesmen ha ! outlined much Hie same
'general program without going into
: tiie actual details which he now seeks.
Several hundred telegrams congratulating
President Wiison on his note to
the belligerents arrived today at tho
| White House. PracticaiP all of them
: construed the note as a nio\e for peace.
I They came from individuals and organizations.
The White ilousv telog|
raphers were kept !>usy for hours re|
ceiving tlie message:
Secretary Lansing Asserts
His Comment on the U. S. Note
Has Been Misinterpreted
1 After a conference with the President
'at the White House yesterday afternoon.
Secretary Lansing made a statement
to show that the President's note
to the belligerents urging the considerT
ation of peace was not to be interpreted
as bearing any threat or intimation
that the United States might he
! forced to enter the war because of the
continued invasion of its rights by the
warring powers on both sides. It was
e.xplained that it was designed to overtake
what were chaiacterized as widespread
misconstructions placed on a
e?0t0mnnt civen out earlier in the. da v.
saying: that because of the increasingly;
critical position of the United States as
a neutral it was entitled to know exactly
what each belligerent seeks, in order*
that it might regulate its conduct for
the future.
Meaning Misinterpreted.
Secretary Lansing's second statement
declared that he had not intended
to intimate that the United States
was considering any change in its.
t
*
' "|T *i' ?v''ihi i i I:*miii fr' i" "1 inii' MI >i r"mi 7 ri ifLjjrirlS
