:':, :,r.'
, .
TESTIS DAY'S WEATHER
LATEST CABLED SUGAR QUOTATIONS
I V. A. .ATKATttER BTTBrUO.
IeenibeT' g llKMV Riofill
Inst Iwanty-touf 1 imira, ,4t.
rri, Hawaiian basis 6 14 $104.60
i i pmpmniiT; miny ooj max.,
Honolulu. Hawaii territory. 'VkisIday, deckmhek 22. 1916. -semi-weekly.
WHOLE NUMBER 4S9J A- .,
- 1 -I a . ,.
P ' '-- " 1 1 i 1 ''. Mill. II I 1 1
SEETARYlOl STATE
FrenchfOfficers Questioning Prisoner Just Brought In From Trenches
DECLARES PRESIDENT'S
..
, i i. , vl I M -V Ill HI S ' - I M I If I rAMA V TO', .'III I V
"S'.'k i j : jf (v ; i iJi i Ji ! i jnira: iff' i or !
i- ' V I l 1 VI 1 Wi li 1. I It V. It tt','VW .l V Vf VAX r7 IKXlfciaV .ilVJk... It 1 , .
SLAVS R0UI1D
n
1
ATI7C mat - nr A nwviro
hU 1 HO liv i 'I iiflvli JuU V 11
Lansing! Says That Mr.: Vi ilsoa Is Merely: Seeking To
. find Oat What Terms the Belligerent Powers i Would
Be Willing To Accept; Diplomats Hint Execntiye
Sought To Forestall Outbreak of Teuton "Frightf ulness"
Which Might Force United States Into Whirlpool
h BRITISH FEELING MIXED
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless.)
WASHINGTON, December 22 The abrupt announcement from
the White House at midnight yesterday that the President
had issued a circular note to the
which he suggested that the latter should issue each a definite and1
authoritative statement as to the aim sought through the war created
a profound sensation throughout the country, so much so that
Secretary of State Lansing felt obliged to issue a supplementary
statement making it plain that the President Tiad not issued his note
without due premeditation and without proper reason.
The first impression created, through the announcement of the
despatch of the note was that the President had taken the initiative
in a peace movement and that he had prejudiced the attitude of the
United States as a possible principal when mediation is requested by
some one of the warring Powers.
NOTES NOT PEACE MOVE
That the President's suggestion that the terms upon which the
contesting Powers would consent to peace was not primarily a
peace move waa made plain yesterday, Secretary Lansing announc
ing that the information asked for was more to guide the United
Sutes in its future attitude than
Je'rtrap, tHernsejyes, ejLfatdj that h UnUed .states has
bt'en brought' at times tb'the brinlc of war and there is lio certafaity
ns to the future.- It is essential, therefore, that the United States
should have A clear, understanding of exactly what each belligerent
iceks "in order that we may regulate our conduct in the future."
The United States has "been drawing nearer to the verge of war,"
aid the secretary, and the unexpected move of the President may
be regarded as "indicating the possibility of our being drawn into
the war."
'Neither the President nor I regard the note as a peace note,"
he said, accompanying this statement with the hope that the fact
of the nearness of war may have a sobering effect upon the nation.
POLICY NOT ALTERED
In a supplementary statement, Secretary Lansing said that he
wished to correct the impression that might be formed from his first
statement, first that the general policy of the United States towards
the European situation had been materially altered and, second, that
the suggestion that the United States might be forced into war was
meant in any threatening way towards any particular governments.
The policy of the United States is unchanged, he said, and no threats
arc intended.
A resolution presented in the senate, "strongly endorsing" the sen
timents expressed in the President's note, was not acted upon, des
pite the request of its introducer that it be taken up at once. It
was sent to the committee on foreign relations for consideration and
report.
Despatches from London showed that the action of the President
bad produced a profound impression there, not because there is any
general feeling that it may lead to a speedy termination of the war,
but because of the astonishment that lie should have taken such a
course.
BRITISH CABINET ASTONISHED
Members of the cabinet of parliament and the leading daily jour
nals expressed their astonishment alike. The fact that previous ad
ices from this city had led all to suppose that the President would
not, at this time take any move looking toward peace added to the
shock of the notes he has tent to the belligerent powers.
The Post of Liverpool also feels that President Wilson lias made
a sad mistake in taking the action he has. It says in an editorial
primed this morning, according to despatches from the English city,
"Mr. Wilson must not be surprised if lie finds that his note has pro
duced an effect exactly contrary to that which he had in mind. We
in this country are justified in feeling that his attempt at interven
tion is ill-timed and misjudged."
" The President must be aware of the dangers of haste in inter
vention," declares the Daily News, which goes on to say that "the
people of this country will receive his note in an appreciative spirit."
The Daily Chronicle is not so kindly in its attitude, but says that
"the words of Mr. Wilson are an unintentional insult which the
Allies can hardly relish."
FIGHT NOW FOR PEACE
In commenting upon the notes, Itonar Law, member of the war
council and the cabinet, said: "We are fighting peace now that
later on we and our children may be assured of a secure peace.
The Allied Nations cannot and will not stop until the German na
tion has been punished for the crimes of its leaders and has been
taught that 'frightfulness' can not be made to pay in this stage of
the world's advancement.
The oflicicial text of the note will be published simultaneously in
all .'ie Entente countries today.
The impression in London is that the receipt of the note will not
be allowed to interfere with the plan already agreed upon by the
Allies to send a joint reply to the German proposals, probably be
fore (.Jiristmas.
(C'lntinued
i
Powers, neutral and belligerent, tnV
fof anjotner one. thinfeMtiV
ou I'age 3)
7
SPRING SUED FOR
ACT OF DAUGHTER
X
Miss Minnie Qoggins Asks $50,-
liCflp for KilHnq of Mrs. Mary
' Moor Here
- -xtUA , . . .
Amo1m lr b r4rl Wlniu.)
HAN 'TBAKOlftCO. Df.iniber 22 A
unit for fdO.OOA damage wu filcil lirrv
ycBtPidajr ajjalnut John Spring, umlti
millinnuir of Berkeley, liy Miks Min
nie CngginM, daughter of Mrx. Mary
Moore, who wm run lnwn and killi.t
by an auloniobita in Honolulu about
year ngo.'
Tlir rTuim fvr dajnngea agninwt
Hpring li liuxed en tiio. fact that, ol
thdiiyh spring auK not in tlin machine
at t It r timV, he i ronptinxitile for hiit
Inor daughter, Dorothy Hpring, who
.aa in th automnbile at the time Mrn
Moore wan killed.
Tlie wilt i baaed upon the running
down of Mr. Moore by an automobile
in which were riding if inn Siriag and
Ur. John C. Pedon, then interne at The
(ueeu'a Hoapltal. MiH Spring wan
iiu her way back from the Orient wih
her mother, and had ntnpped off for a
few dnya in the Ilandn.
HILLESSAfsS"
LACKED REAL-LEADER
AuocUU4 tr ay Federal Wireless.)
NKW VOKK, December 22 At a
met-ting of the Kepublicau leadera, held
hene yesterday to discuss plana for the
ic.vt preaidentlnl campaign, Charles I).
Hides, former chairman of the Kepub
I'u.an national committee, kttributetl
the defeat-of the party at the lost elec
tion to the laek of -a strpng party lend
1 1. He said:
"Tho Kepnbllenn party failed at the
November eleftion because we did not
have u ttrong leader. Hughes lacked
the magnetic qualities necessary in a
presidential candidate to fire the i in tig
inalion of. thfl country."
.. ; :-
CLAUDE rWHITE WEDS
(Aaaolate4 jTraaa by radenl Wlnlass)
LONDON.' December 21 Claude
(irnham White, the noted Knglish.avi
ator, married today Kthel Levey, ex
wife -of George Cohan, in Liverpool.
AmericaQ Money Will
Rebuild French Town
(Aaantat4 fraes by radaral .Wtnlaasi
'lTI"ArONT, Krunco, December
22-VitE ilmplo but appropriate
ceremonies the corner stone of the
first bOUdlng to lie rebuilt in this
village "a as laid yesterday by I'nited
State Ambassador Sharp.
VitrMmhitf. Htterlv deMtroved enrlv
in the war by gunfire from both
the uerinani and the rrench, Was
one of the many beautiful French
village that were wiped out during
the Qnrmao drive towards I'aris.
Funds for the rebuilding of the
town were raised by Mrs. William
H. Crocker, wife of the president
of the Crocker National Bank of
Han Kraoc'lseu.
. . .,..4-,
BOW ADMITS DETECTIVE
WAS IN CONSUL'S EMPLOY
lAmeUttd Trv 1T Ttianl Wlralau.l
SAN FUANCISCO, Jpeeembcr 22
KrunR Hopp, ouhii1 jijiern) fur tier
mn ii y al thi pprt. b id on trial in
the Cnited States dintrltt eourt aa oiu
of the ullepert eapiritofM iu the o
ra11iH4 baahS.i6tV taefa. tooi. the
witaecs Btand in hi,Awti 4lefeim yea
tenlsy. Bopp admitted that Ohnrleir C. row
ley, a Meteetive who is one of the co
(lefendanta and whom the government
Hri iiBrd of being the coiiKul general '
uent. was empliiyed by Vice-consul
von hai k. He n1so admitted that the
vice consul hnd employed loui J.
Smith, iiiiother nf the defendants ou
the bomb plot ruse and the govern
pient V star witno'sa. It ill chtirged by
the government that Smith vva em
iloyed by Bopp to plant bombs on yes
koIn suiting from Seattle and other
-
BILL FOR UNIVERSAL
TRAINING READY SOON
(AssocUtad rrtss by Fsdonl WlralMs)
WASHINUTOV, IJ. C ler4mber 22 A bill providing n definite pltin
for universul military training vtill be before congress in January, it wns
Denounced here yesterday. The bill will give the estiuiuted complete cost
of instituting such a ayatein.
Secretary of War Baker this week went out on record ns in favor of
universal toilitary training, which plnccs the power of the udmi nistrat iou
behind the proposed meusure. The bill which congress will be culled upon
to consider has been promulgated by the army staff.
Major -(ienernl Scott, ehief of statf, made a statement yesteidny in fnvor
of a greatly enlarged regular army. "If we are. fo rely for protection
upon our regular army," he said, "the aimv must immediately be trcmen
ilunslv i ncreased. ' '
"WAR BABIES" SLUMP
(AssorisUd Trrai by Fedsril Wtrstsss )
NKW YOliK. Decomher 21 In the
nioht mrmortible ini(rket today since
the wur broke out active stocks suf
fered ii further shrinkage of from live
to fifteen points. The liipiidut ion. fol
lowing thi 1'iesident'K note, iMiibinccs
shares of ull di'M-ripl il.ll. Tlie totul
sub's lire i.-t i unit mI at 2,70(1,1111(1 Kliarex,
which tiuuie has been exceeded only u
few times in the history of the ex
change.
COMMANDER EARL IS TO
HEAD ORDNANCE BUREAU
(A'Koclsttd Prats by Fsdsrsl Wiralass)
WASHlNdTON, December 22 Tho
senate yesterday coiilirmi'd the appoint
nient of Coinmutuler lialph l.nilc to be
chief of the bureau of ordnance of the
navy with the rank of rear mliuirnl. He
succeeds Itear-atluiiral Strauss, who has
returned to sea duty as c omnia ml cr u(
the battloshiji Nevada.
JAPANESE SHIP SUNK
(AisocUUd Prsui by Fedwral Wlreleci)
TOKIO, December 21 All of the
crew of the Shosho Joko Steamship
(-'inipun 's stenmer Toki Maru. whicli
whs sunk by a (lerniiiu subiiinriiii' in
Ihe Mediterranean sea, yesterday was
safely lauded at Ihe port of Brest,
France.
- --v'v
ports with munitions tor the Kntente
allies.
The coiisiibgenernl insisted on' the
stniid, however, that Smith and (Jrow
ley were eMjfiiged only aa eonlidentinl
agtnts to ek infonnatltta rrgnrding
ioUUjon - V' m utraUty by liationa "i
the Kntente, and not to plant ' t)Atflt)s.
Alonzo Smith, a nephew of l.nuia J,
Smith, testified for the defense: to the
elfei t tluit I.ouis i. Smith had boasted
that he vns to get 2t,00 from the
government.
K. H. von Sehaek, (ierman vice-eon-sill,
tcstifietl thut he purchuseil a bomb
for 2.r from one Koolbergen, whose
inline Iiiim lilmi Kiii tirAin i m.n t in i kA
rase. He said that Koulbergen' sales
nigi:iuciit was that it was the kind
"used in the trenches." . He liitr)
leuiued it n us an old invention and
hnd come from a vault. .
(Asaoctitsd Press by rsdarsl Wtrelesa'
WAslllMiToN, I). '., December
22 Lsccutive heads of the national
government are opposing the ii2S,(i(K),
IMIO oinnibus bill, which provides for
government buildings, was the charge
made ye.terday by fliblrhnin Mn'rWiW
the honte public buildings yimiinttee. TA
" The reason the executive heads of
the government are opposing the omni
bus bill," said Clink, "is bees use they
desire to take the authorization for
public buildings away from congress
Hnd 1 in ii it over to department bu
i euuerats. ' '
1
FOUR POWERS NOW SEEK -AMERICAN
AID IN CHINA
(AssocuUad Press by rederal Wireless)
I'KKINW. December 21 The Hue
Min. Jupniiere, British and French
ligations here have indicated a desire
foi Ainericnii cooperation ill a reor
ganization loan of ten million pouuds.
4
BARON RELEASED
(Aiso.'UUd Tti by Fvdtral Wt !)
VAsiUN(T(, IVcemher 1M Hhron
)M'iilM,iiu. who nrriviHl n fw tin y t uo
iiikI w tin (It-tainot) (it Kllin IhIiuhI, Iiuh
rvt rt-li'UHiMl on born of 0(H inn)
further i i rut iynt itn will hi iiitult ol
1 ... .1. a I. I. .
iuv .in iiu- in a i i ti i r uitiiiiun, -
1
COMMITTEE FAVORS
nnvn f wninRBniT
III
If Finnally Enacted Into Law Pro
posed Measure . Will Wipe ,
Out liquor Traffic
tAeutd Pri by Ftdaral Wlralaas.l
AYASHIXOTOV, December 21 A na
tional prohibition constitutional in; end
ineut, submitting to the States the
amendment which vtill wipe out the
liquor trallie in tho I'nited Htntes. was
ordered 'favorably reported by the sen
ate judiciary committee today.
The committee stood thirteen to three
for the favorably report, tho dissenting
roe in be va being Culhorsou and Heed, De
mocrats, mid Brandegee, Uepitbliran.
The amendment is materially ultered
from ihe form in which it was reported
to the house.
The to'iinic pntitiilnce committee today
ordered a favorable report ou the Bank
hetul bill to bur liquor advertisements
from tho mails in prohibition States.
IRISH REBELS WILL BE
FREED AT WAR'S CLOSE
(Associated Prese by Tadaral Wlrtleat)
I.()NIK), December 22 D was for
mally Kiinonnced here Inst night that
the government intends to release the
Irish prisoners held for their purt in
the Dublin revoll so soon as the wur
lias ended. This statement was made
by Henry C. Duke, chief secretary for
Ireland, who said that when "tho time
routes it will be to our advantage to
Release these misguided men."
PRESIDENT GETS GIFTS OF
REAL BUFFALO MEAT
(Associated Press by rederal Wtrelest.)
A.r ltll I.O, Texns, December 22
Buffalo meat, the first that linn been
killed in Trias for twenty Ave years,
has been shipped from this city to Pre
sident Wilson, Secretary McAdoo and
French A mbnssudor Jusserand.
-
FIGHTING IN MEXICO
(Associated Press by rederal Wlreleve.)
l:i. I'ANO. December 21 A battle
between arraiuistns and Villistaa is
lit progress at Kscalon, north of Tor
leon, according to reports.
-9
Schwab Urges Low Tolls
On Canal For Americans
(Associated Press -by rederal Wireless
NKW YORK, December B2
Charles M. Schwab, president of the
Bethlehem Steel works, lu an ad
dress lust night declared thut tho
I'nited Stales should see to it tint
congress enucta regulations provid
ing f ir lower tolls for American
ships passing through the I'anuma
canal than are charged foreign
ship.-'. 'Otherwioo" he added,
"America will find after the war
that she in ut u most treiuenduus
disadvantage, ami will refuse to
compete with the vast numbcis of
foreign vessels whicli will pour
through that wuterway.
UIU hIiILMUIiIliiI
MUD A
BEATING THEM
'. . v .-.-.-.r :
Reports ot Fighting Between -
Danube and Black Sea Tell of . '
Successful Attacks By Entente j
Forces and Teuton Retreat ; ;
RUSS ALSO BEAT BACK THE
ENEMY IN THE CARPATHIANS
Heavy Guns Are Celebrating Com
ing of Third Christmas In the
Trenches But Infantry On
Western Lines Is 'Inactive
(Associated Press by rederal Wlreleae)
NKW YORK, December 22
The change in the aspect of
affairs in tlie Balkans, which theyi
military writers of the Entente'";;
countries have been predicting for
some tirpe. appears to nave come .,!
at last, and the (ierman are be
ing repulsed in the Dobrudja dis - ,
trict vyhere the Russians and ,I$u-.
natiians are more than holding
their . own. . ,,-. k
ucn at least the gist ol Ihe
rqorts which have' been1 rectiv-,',
ed from both the fighting forces .
in that theater of the great war. i,
In the Carpathians, where the
Russians have been alternately. 'V
advancing and retreating ' for
some months, they appear now to '
have definitely taken the offensive ,
once more, and last night Petro-
grad reported that the Slav forcea
have successfully attacked the .
Ciermaiis and Austriana holding
some important heights, and have
driven tliem from their positions.
HEIGHTS TAKEN
In the Dobrudja district also the
fighting lias been in the hilly coun- .. '
try of the northern section of that -n
region, wliicli lies between the V
bend nf the Danube, as it turn ',
east and flows toward the Black :'
Sea, and the sea coast. Here the v
(iermans and Bulgars are reported
to have been beaten back by the
defenders of the country.
They had taken some heights' ' A
wliich commanded the Uussian-Ru- r.
manian lines for several miles, and
threatened to force the Entente
troops to fall back still farther, but ,
the Russians sent reinforcements1,'
of men and guns to the sorely press- V
ed troops and attacked yesterday '
morning. I lie righting was ex
tretnely bloody and desperate while
it lasted, but the Entente pressure ;
was too much for the Teutons who' ;" ,'
retreated, leaving their wounded '
and dead behind them. "
RUSSIANS PURSUING ;
The Slavs followed and the latest .
reports state that tliey arc now
struggling to drive the Teutonic
forces from other Ksitvns along
the crest of a range of hills to the
south uf the one they lost yesterday.
Across the river, in Rumania pro
per the lighting is still more in fa-
1 vor of the invaders,' who arc report
ed to be slowly advancing, on both
sides of the lnsu-Racovitzeri. . '
The Carpathian fighting took
place to the southeast of Kimpo-lung-Jacoheni
pass, for whicli the
Slavs have been battling for
months. i
VERDUN GUNS BUSY '
The big guns on the Verdun
front have been monopolizing most
I ('out iniicJ on Puge 3) ' J
; -f
A
-to
