s.
I'M
: . " ui I,. I
viuuujr m-ussy, ivuvwn ay snvw Or
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
rain; to-morow probably fair.
Higheat temperature jritUnUy, 42 lownt, 31.
mulled weather, ni4l and marine report on pet 11.
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 113.
fiXTl? rrMT ! Greater Naw Torlt, I Klsewhere
U IN ill LLM 1 Jersey Cltr and Newark. ) TWO CENTS.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1916. cowttht, j-W'k-Ms- and pamhmt AmeMo.
"NEARER WAR," SAYS LANSING; TtfEN MODIFIES WORDS;
WILSON NOTES MYSTIFY ALL WASHINGTON DIPLOMATS;
WALL STREET HIT BY A TIDAL WA VE OF STOCK SELLING
2'tm.
a It LP I
SCHWAB SEES
PEACE AS BOON
Prosperity to Grow if U. S.
Builds Ships and Barn
Labor Agitators.
GUEST OF LOTOS CLUB
Glial Toll Cut Urged for
Auerican Vessels Bethle
hem's Progress.
Charles M. Schwab told the Lotos
Cnb Ust iitarht that peace, conclusive
aeace, will' brine to America not com-u-rclal
disaster but greater prosperity.
To make that prosperity more secure, he
heped the country inliihl do these
things:
Flrit, get rid of Its labor agitator.
Its legislator "v. ho never have learned
vtit Industry means" nnd "all Ameri
cans who urn no: for America first and
won't work for It first, last and all the
time."
Second, create n merchant marine
(rest enough to carry our product all
ever the world and an one step toward
Otis end permit American ships to bo
through the I'anama Canal at lower
telle than foreign ships.
The club was dining In Mr. Schwab's
aenor. tie was introduced by the presl
tat, Frank It. Lawrence, as "the mat
whose life reads like a fairy tale." Tht
creator of Bethlehem Hteel responded
with a speech which vlsloned the future
of the steel business as not dependent on
war. but to be touched year after year
y the same fairy wand.
Sees Steel Oatant Trestles!.
lie predicted that within ten yeata
this country' production, of steel would
be trebled. He said that when his coin
geny's 1 100,000.000 construction pro-
gramme was completed there would be
twenty-rtve component parts, only one of
which would be the making- or ordnance
rgalnct four parts building ship and
twenty parte manufacturing; steal for
commercial purposes.
Me pictured the Hethlehem Steel
Works as "a, great national asset," capa
bls of producing; about 1,000.000 rounds
sf ammurtjlton a month. lie repeated
the offer he mile In Washington to place
the works. at the disposal of the Govern
ment and let It rame Its own prices for
the product. lie told of the umaslng
sronth Of Bethlehem how Its Average
sage for men. women and boys Is now
nearly $1,200 a year; how the United
States maris 40.000,000 tons of steel In
the last year.
When the United fltates Steel Cor
poration was formed," he said, "fifteen
years ago, the unnual steel production of
ttie country was only 12,000,000 ton,
and many believed we were then at the
aenlth of the steel business. My own
belief Is that we are Just us far ftom
the s?nlth to-day as we were twenty
yearn ago."
Incidentally Mr. Schwab told
dories alioiit Kugctie It. draco, pre:
t tin- Hethlehem company; (leorge
the Hetblelieni epmpan ; 'Jrg. r . ,
mbiviiim Ninn. Mill, iiiiivi lAiivn
1 ii. ti.r,,r
rnMOTi"
'Miiy im uoj e, unu win" ,
Including President (Irare, were calling
him "Charley" right out In public.
.Xotables at JJIuBcr.
Thi wern about 500 diners possibly
Ihe mot men tlmt ever dined together
nl the l)tr.s Club; so many that they
ate at a dozen Ions tallies Instead of the
little muiid ones customarily used at
vubllc dinners. Tbo r,jscal;ers were Sir.
Schiwiu. Mr. Orace. Major Mltrhel,
muI lusutl. president of the Com
monwealth Kdlson Company. J. Hartley
Mjimers. playwright : Melville K. Htone,
Dr. Henry K. Prltchett. J. K. Dod?on and
the (bill man, Mr. Lawrence.
All of t'lem except Schwab pialsed
Schwab, partlculatly Mr. (Irace. who
nld the answer to the rise In Hethlehem
stock Iiom J30 to 100 a share was
Clurle M. Bchwab. Others at the head
tablei weie Justice l.uke O. Ktapletou.
Aithur BrlJbanc. A. .lohnstone. one of
Iho Dethlehcm vice-presidents; fnlon X.
Bethell, Samuel Untermycr, .lames A.
f an ell. piesldent of the United States
eieel Corporation, und J. Q. Schmldlapp.
Mr. Schwab cut away u good deal from
hp prepared speech, Kor example ;
'The thing that drives men on to great
enterprise Ik not the money that comes
from It; it Is the thrill or preat accom
pil'hment. Amerlcnii industry Is built
on doing. Whenever I see n man who
M after mere wealth I My to myself.
s tho braUeman said of the little dog
ihlch was chaslne a train. 'What the
devil will He do with It when ha fets
it r
ss r. x, industry Will DoMlaate,
"In a year the United States has pro
duced forty million toca of Steele at the
hlihen prices. Our ordnance It the
greatest In the world 50 per cent,
greater than Kruno's. I believe.
"Kor the Government to build armor
s-hm great private plants exist Is wrong.
No Oo eminent can afford or have the
entliualahm to get such men as are man-
Iln our Industry.
"Kpealijng of exports, I wish we could
export those legislators who hare never
Itsrned what Industry means, those
labor agitators who tell the workmen
they are unfairly treated, though wages
were never so high. I can't think of a
single reduction In wages In twenty
rsar, but there have been four ad,
vanees In the last year. I wish we
could also exoort those Americans who
are not for Amsrlca first and wont work
for It nrat, last and all the time."
Tills was trenendously applauded.
"American. Industry Is going to domi
nate the world." Mr. Schwab also aald.
"Boys. In another ten yearn the Jiroduc
tlon of steel will be three or four times
what it Is now."
"Though It would be Inappropriate for
ma to discus the commercial Interests
of Hethlehem generally. I trunk I can
somethlaa of our relations frith
the Unite! metes Oovsmmeat. far In
a peculiar aaaaa Detauaem serves tne
WILSON'S NOTE
SHOCKS LONDON
Government Frankly Ad
mits Absolute nnd Star
tling Surprise.
EXPEOTKI) XO" MOVti,
Speech of Lloyd (Jeoiye
dorsed in Mount of
Commons.
lu
I-ondo.v, Use. 22 (Friday). Absolute
and startling aurprhe was the first feel
ing In Great Britain aroused by President J
Wilson's note. The Government was sur-
prised and frankly admitted so. Mem-
bers of Parliament were equally sur
prised when the news spread through
both house during the afternoon see-,
slon.
The uewsnaner offices were nrnilseil . !
and undoubtedly tho 'public will be
equally surprised when they jead Am
bassador rage's statement to the For
eign Office In the morning's papers.
All Information tecelved from America
In the last few days, both In despatches
from the usually best Informed Wash
ington correspondents and In advice to
the banking nnd'buslnei-s firms, has said
that the President had no Intention of
taking any steps toward peace or nuk
ing any move In Kuropean affairs. When
he transmitted Germany's note to Oreat
Britain without comment It was assumed
that this action represented his general
attitude toward the European situation.
Wilson's WIsiUm U Praised.
The Dalit; A" ice, which Is the nearest
to pacifist among the London news
papers, nays : "
"Mo one can fall to appreciate the
spirit In which the proposal Is made or
approve the cautious terms In which it
Is couched. The history of the great
struggle In his own countiy I too recent
and too memorable for President Wlhon
to be unaware of the perils of too hasty
Intervention. From our fide It was the
spectre of Kuropean Intervention that
haunted Lincoln, especially In those da)
when the cause of the North was jiasslivj
through Its darkest abase.
"-Mr. Wilson I fur tob wise to odd that
trouble to the enormoua burdens of mo
nations entrant-J lit the tru;,-glv fur lib
erty not less vital ant, far nr.
Is taking soundings. If he f'.uiW t"
water still too deep ho will wlthdinn his ,
rvtllttili line mill wall until J llllltA f.tvor-
:, ., -
able opportunity."
The .Veir.s says the Central Powers
' ; would accept llie note, eagerly anil ue-
a lot of'"1'1" llf,r n"0""1 "" door should
lre-ldentlnot..,,' b,ttrreJ HnJ ' l'""lr !m'
U,, F ",ey 'i term- to offer the Allies
would accept the note, eagerly and de-
, t, , VTaimnU. '
. ....... (. ...
ine .icics sunn nisi inre ia no -nun
'"iwhei.the.ecoii.niole.irfea
brought about by l.ln oln's block nle and
says It does not believe tile Aniei lean
rople will put the disability they ale
iirrrtnir In ihe scale nizalimt vlctotv of
I human liberty over lespothm.
, Th Uallu CIii-uulln says;
"As ft Liberal newspaper which lus.ulKbt. Almost asiinlil.lv s (liey gained
always made r spcelul featuie of en-
deavorlng l bring Ureal llrltaln and
Amerlou closer together, and lninui;U slory In heartaches. The "war bride"
evil lepute im well us good has chain- speculators, thoso who had bought any
pinned the progressive Ideals of tin- kind of slock wbleh might have 11 beat
United States In thlH country, we auk ,111s on munition supply, note un.ible to
.... ...K..... ... 1 ....1 -. . ,l . inuriiri , iiinnict I'! u.in.i, .on -- ...
h the Atlantic lo be- suivIvh th? serond shock. The brokers' ' Hehenk : Minister of ll.illuys, Dr. '.. !""' "hjeit of Inducing neutrals In treut
,e say no American I looms In the lute Afternoon held group. I von r'0rHler; Minister without portfolio, 1 aimed o"s('.s t If they ere men-of-r
generation has iH-tiiJnf Ihe gloom)', of thousands who liail 1 r)r. Itaeinreither: (lovernor-aeneral of
our frleiuN iici-ohm the Atlantic to lie-
llev ns when w
state paper In our generation has Ih-iu
calculated to t-uune so much lialn. not
merely to Englishmen, but to Liberal
opinion throughout southern and west
ern Kuiope.
'This note Is, In effect, howeier. dif
ferent be Its Intention, an appendix to
that lately received from Berlin."
Asserting that It Is not based on the
grounds of humanity or Injcty lo the
United Stales, the VltronMt says:
"We are bound to nbseive thai with
only the recent exception In tho matter
of the Ilclglan slave raids. In which the
enemy flouted hla remonstrances, Pieal
dent Wilson never In tho face of unparal
leled tvpenlngi Intervened on the ground
of humanity before."
Warn Wllaoii Kept Mleiit.
The newspaper then recounts n list of
ullegsd German outrages In Heigium nnu
e sewhere on which
, 11 s.m I'l'Mdriellt.'
nt u adds that lull
e l usltnnii Aticonit
e l.uittama, Aticonu
Wilson remained silent
nrotested against th
mt Euhitx "iriassacrcs" not because
they were Inhumane, "hut because
Americans pjrlshed by their Inhuman-
"'"With this line that humanity did
not warrant intervention, but American
iniMst did wo have never iiuar-
relied," continues tne cnioiucic, -oiu
since lie omitted to intervene to siop
crime, Is It consistent he should Inter
vene now to hinder omers iruin puiusn
Ing the criminals?"
The newspaper considers President
Wilson's statement that the objects of
both belligerent! aro virtually iho samw
Is moat painful fur liberal Kuropean
liberate, and adds :
The President did not Intend It's
words as an Instill, but they are deeply
Insulting none the less, and none of the
allied peoples can be expected to relish
them. The good Intentions of the note
we" do not Impugn. Behind all Its In
felicities and Its gross Inopportuncueiui
stands the figure of the statesman we
respect, but he ha made a profound
mistake."
III Tlasasl aasl III Jndgeil,
The Liverpool Pott saya:
"President Wilson must not be sur
orlsed If. as far as the Allies are con
cerned, his Intervention produccu a state
ef mind aontrary to that at which ha
alms. The Allies will readily give the
. CMMaiteat leeewd rage.
Biggest Day in 15 Years
Marked by Transfer of
:$,0H6,0IX) Shares. '
DilASTlCDECIilXKSiX
AN OHDEHJA MARKKT
ll undreds of War Specula
tors Kuined by Drop of
1 Ml to 15 34 Points.
HAXKKJ.6 SEE EASIER
MONEY AS A HESI LT
llt'l'l'llt Developments, It Is
i..is i ir t n
Peace Inevitable
Yesterday was the Mgget day In
slocks since April SO, 190I, when 3.2S1,
000 shares changed hands in a market
which led up to the Northern Pacific
panic of Moy !' of the same year. Tie
turnover yesterday was J,0,000 e-hares.
I which compares with 3.01,000 on the
day of the Northern Parlflc panic and
supplies one of the three 3.O00.00O thar
days In the Stock Kxchange history.
Market loues were great In yester
day's session, far greater In fact than
on scores of days before and since the
Northern Pacific panic, when stocks
have broken badly, but yesterday there
was nothing- In the atmosphere to rug;
geit any panicky feeling. Money was
easy. Bankers were Indeed of the opiii.
In that the day's developments tended
toward greater ease In money. Not a
rumor was breathed to the effect that
any Stock Exchange house or bank was
in financial difficulties. The decline,
though drastic, and though abrupt at the
opening-, was orderly throughout most
of the aweslon.
Thousands .Ire HalMed.
Stable thouth the brokeiage liou.it
weie, tho da's lorn- btousht lulu to
thousands of customers. They went
through a hat rowing day. The moinlng
papeis leports (if the llosldeut's note
brought thousands to the offices of their
tunkeis for the protection of their In
terests. Seat Inn capacity of such ofuVe"
as nowhere near nilmiale. The inn
Joilty ttiMiiamled that Immedlilr advan
1 'do be fiken of the pi ice on opening,
.-ome felt the big financial Interests
would hold the uiaiket steady.
V llh tho first quotation there was an
, - . - .. . .
(i!iuiiH iirinsiiu i rum almost an specuia-,
i ,., i ,.i,. . vJ.,,raii,.
,r i,.,.,i ,.'i hefnr thV pnni.i i.e
t.oiniilIance there wa
out ,aM. ,., naw
'l'y rould reinforce t
, Wl(r,.owfl11). ,
t.oinpliance there wa a drou that wined i
rgln operators before
their deposits. Iheyi
," ,, ' , . i ' Z e.iTiV .C.
way. Those who;
...... ....
would rally, were beginning to jubilate I
! I'roaia Ki-aaaratr
i ,r mv '
This wos Secretary Lansing's explaim-
lion of tile President's lints and Its nor-
t-nt of war. I.Ike a plummet fell Ihe.
mocki mat nni inane men rien over-
their Mfallh, their jirotlts evniorated.
The turnover In chare tells Its own
suivive in? serond shock
n!1 the gloomy, of thousands who hail
l eeu Impoverished by the two dlsaetrnu
turns.
When tile tn.trl.et closed tt sounded a
icinileui on theso small margin, quick
profit plnjers. Christmas will be a sad-
dened asoti In it multitude of the lit-
tit homes from which that contingent
the Street calls "the public" Is re
cruited. 1
Ttte turnover 111 Hteel common was
reported on the Stock Exchange ticker
at 890,000 shares nnd probably approx
imated 1.000.000 shares. Including odd
lots and stop loss orders In the complla-j
tlon. Though trading In Ihe stock went
on at a furious pace throughout tho
session tbaie was no great confusion and
no wide change. between sales except at
the opening.
I
Opening Was
LHprecedeatest.
I'lu-ii- i inr uueiuitE w
hu'"'"'1 'n one lot of 50,000 shares
'w"' l'U " tompa.
w,in...iv' fivi nt ins i
The prices at
the opening
weie
be-
pared
with Wednesday's closing of 108. The
opening was unprecedented in the ie
spect of the amount of stock for sale, In
the number of brokers surging about th
Steel post and In the number of transac
tions made simultaneously at widely dlf. I
ferent prices In various parts of the ex-1
cited group. 1
Mot of the other active Industrial
shares, including all which have been
affected directly or Indirectly by the'
war, opened at substantial declines from,
le-lllninlut''. l,.ulW U.,.1 nrl.l. ..-iwll.... 1.. '
I . . .1 1 1 " " 1. , - ,u,,. .IIU V,,,,, , I . 11 1 1 1 ,,
heavy volume, Around nil of the In
dustrial postu brokers were vying with
one another In selling war stocks for
the account ot worried customers,
Selling orders had come to brokers
from all sections of the country, aith the
interior, and particularly the middle
West, showing the keenest seat to dis
pose of stocks of the war companies.
The country over, Judging from the sell
ing orders received by the wire houses
arid other big commission houses, there
was consensus that President Wilson's
not to the belligerents following the
(lorman peace proposal and the other
parliamentary and diplomatic develop
ments ot the past two weeks made an
early peace Inevitable.
arias; apart la Teangarary.
The selling movement continued with
little cheek most of the forenoon, but
there were hundreds of speculators In
Cesllsued en tevtnth Page.
Secretary Lansing Explains His 'War' Talk
11JASHINGTON. Dec. u. After tuthorixing a
WW stMtemeat this morning in which hi SMid
that President Wilson's peace note was sent because
"we are drawing nearer the verge of war ourselves"
Robert Lansing, Secretary of State, following a talk
with President Wilson, issued an explanatory state
ment announcing that he "did not intend to intimate
that the Government was considering any change in
its policy of neutrality," and that he "regretted that
his words were open to any other construction, as he
now realised they were."
MR. LANSING'S FIRST STATEMENT:
"The reatons for the sending: of the note
were an follows:
"It Isn't our material Interest we had in mind
when the note was sent, hut more and more our
own rights are becoming; Involved by the bel
ligerents on both side", so that the situation is
becoming; increaainjtly critical.
"I mean by that that we nre drawing; nearer
the verge of war ourselves and therefore we
are entitled to know exactly what each bel
ligerent seeks in order that we may regulate
our conduct in the future.
"So nation has been sounded. No considera
tion of the German overtures or of the speech
of Lloyd George was taken into account in the
formulation of the document. The only thing
the overturea did was to delay it a few day?.
It Was not decided to send it until Monday.
"Of course the difficulties that face the Presi
dent were that it might be construed as a move
"kNEARToTfAMINE
Anti-War Agitation fiiow
Beyond Power of Authori
ties to SupprehH It.
Suttlal Cubit Dttpatrk to Tsr Si v
ItoMK, Dec. :l. Alaimlng news about'
the fcarclly of lood In Auktrla-IIuugary,
piactlcally amounting to n famine, lias:
reached the Vat ten n from
sources.
diplomatic 1
This news gieutly loiicnm Hie I'ope,
who fear Hie reisn nr th. iww Itmoeror .
Charles under such unfaoiablr auspices
tlons '."'au'I'i la nw'ia'ld lo'be very serV
ous. Antagonism between Hungary andj
Austria Is acute. Political complications I
rr i ureu i riiro ami me im-.u "s" f
tlon Is now widespread und i-.innot be,
repressed by the authorities.
...... . . ... ,
" AU&IiilA LAtfli tt I.
'
' i narusn """
of Propoae.1 Mlnlnters.
.,...,. .., , .,.,....
AilSTi.eoAM, via Ixindon. Deo
at .r.tJa iiviiuuiii in i
Count Clam-Martinlz. to whom was
mueller falleit In his efforts to ilo o. Is
'reported In a ilespntch from Vienna to
, huvo presented the following list of Mn-
t liters !
Premier. Count Clam-Marttnls ; Mln-,
inter of Interior, von Handel: Mln uteri" -
of Commrice, Dr. I'fbuu ; .Minister of
1 Labor. Von Trnko ; MluUter of Kdllca-
lion, Huron von Hussaiek: Minister of
VII llUIIHiri VVUIIl V IMIII-.ll.il .1II1A . -l III-
Ister of Xalloiml Uefenoc. V. von Oei.rsl;
MlnlHtrr of I'limnre. Alevaiiiler Hulls,
....l....l,...A .!..... r.. -.I-! Ml.. .
inueller; Minister of JsistWe, Von
Ualicla, Michael Hobrsynhkl.
- "
.. e urrnvr tcc rrtn vnvTn nif n I
U. 8. WlKfcLuS JsUK rUKXU IL(J
I
1 llasilela tabs 40w,oon (o HnlM !
Illab Power tttation.
Washington. Dec 21. Secretary
Daniels asked Congiess to-day for 1400,.
000 for a high power wireless station
In Porto Hlco.
Mr. Daniels sjld the Island I of "ex
treme atragetlc Importance in connection
with fleet operations, owing to Its lo
cation, and with a protected high power
wiicless station communication would be
Insured with the fleet, with Kurope and the umiii-ra bout war, which all sentl- ,r
wltli South America to a greater legreo;llle ,,t01)ie i,Vft lung rccognlxed as iin-
than by any other means
576 INTERNED IRISH
REBELS ARE SET FREE
Chief Secretary Tolls Com
nioiis lie lias Sent Pris
oners Home.
London, Dec, II. The Oovei iitnent
has decided to release the Irish iirUtoners
who were Interned after the rebellion In
Ireland. Henry K. Duke, Chief Secretary
for Ireland, announced In the House of
Commons! to-day:
"The time has come when the advan
tages of releasing these men far out
weigh the rlak and I have bo advised the.
Government. Steps therefore were taken
to-day to proceed with the least possible
delay to return the Interned prleoners to
their homes."
According to tho stntement of tlie Sec
retary for Home Affairs in tile House of
Commons last October there were r,76
Irishmen Interned In connection with tho
recent rebellion.
Aftlt'aTA,
VIl.l.K. I
rHAHI.KRTnN.
scxninu
HAVANNAH AND VLURIDA,
I ALL UTERI. Trains Calif, Atlantic Oast
1.1ns, tltl B'way, Ttl. Mad. 8a. M Ait:
WARNING TO
SHIPS IF ARMED
(iei iiian Puner Siiys Rule Must
lie Followed Kven If Amer
icans Arc Aboard.
Ij.mkI.v. Deo 'ii - tinman fiilminns
will torpedo and lut; without warning i
alined meioli.int and passenger steam-Itlons
era f the Allies, even whn Americans
Hie on hoard, accordlnc lo the TuroliVir
.'midst-fion, ns quoted In an Amsterdam
,lr"'ut- !
Tlioush tli's newspaper says Cermauy j
will now cnnxlder such hh'ps armed nu-,
iiiary ci nlsers. Hlr lMwsrd 'ni son. Klist
I.onl of Hi? Adiuimlty. said lo-duy In
ine lloue or loiiuiioh" mm ins ununii
n.w.rnm.ni 'v.nnM .ilm't niv dlsllnr.
tioernnient cannot aum.t an iiisiinc.
tlon between the rights of utiaimed mer-
i.haut ships and thofe alined for ilefen-
,he nurposej." The Urltlsh iloverninent
iH devollnir lontlnunu. attention to the
,
i ucui ; WIiu iill.iivr I'l illlliinb i lie- u
.,,, oas.mgsr ships for dofence, ho said.
morlal llglil to oerend tneir sseis
against nttaclt. visit or eearoh by any
means In their iwer, but they must not
... ....... .....
, . . 5 T " ?' " .
Sir IMward ('arson continued. "So far
a I urn awate, all the neuttal Powers
tnl.e the same leiv "
... ... , ,, . , . u. I. ..
' Hlr l:'lwar'1 "nM "n ,,"ulH " ,,,r
aim of tile (leimail (lovernuient to ron-
' defensive nnd iilfenilvr action, with
'lex 1 of lldltorlal.
The editorial in the Tnegllche fiiiuf
k 'ni 11, as telegraphed from Amsterdam,
follows ;
"The iieriiiin (lovernment has now
formally taken the position that Kng-
j land's armed commeiolal and pasiengor
att.imein are nien-or-war, neing nrmeu
auxiliary cralsers. The promise given to
America which has always hindered
our submarine war that these vessels
before being totpedoed must bestopp3d
and be examined falls to the ground.
They are warships and nuisl be treated
u such, even when Americans arc 011
board.
We now hue facilities for extending
avoldabl. and Indispensable. This U the
bet reply to Premier Lloyd Oeorge's tc
fual of our peace offer."
lipt, Lllatklc of the Caledonia, Is held
by (let many to have commanded .in
"auxlllity cruiser." The Caledonia, ac
cording to the Hrltlsh lew, was a mer-
chant eel for defence, Conseriuently
lbs Herman view Is tha' In trying to
Jiain Ihe German eiibmirine that sank
i ins amp. tsjii. ismiuin wss merely per
j forming his duty as commander ot an
' "auxiliary cruiser."
Cain. 1'iyatt of the Ftrltls.lt steamer ,
Liussels was executed because he tried
to I am a Cerium submailne. The Brue-'
sets was not mined, and so was n mer
chant ship ami not an ".nulliary
nulser," according lo the Herman view,
That Is why Oermany executed Capt.
Kryutt and will not execute Capt,
lll.tlkle. Mr. Honor Law said In the
Commons on Tuesday that Oermany had
so assured him.
Paint fur .Neutrals.
It was on this point that Sir Kdwaid
Carson made his answer when ipjes
tloned in the House of Commons. The
consequences for neutral Powers are
suggested In the question, which was
whether, In view of the attitude of the
Herman (lovernment, tho Admiralty
would take steps to overcome objections
raised by any neutral country lo tho
arming of British merchant ships fur
defence, and arrange to give such ships
adequate protective) armament and reg-
Comiiiued on Tilnl Page,
ment toward peace and in aid of the German
overtures. He specifically denies that that was
the fact in the document itself.'
"The sending of this note will indicate the
possibility of our being; forced into the war.
That possibility ought to serve as a restraining
and sobering force safeguarding Americcn
rights. It may also nerve to force an earlier
conclusion of the war. Neither the President
nor myself regards this note as a peace note;
it is merely an effort to get the belligerents to
define the end for which they are fighting."
MR. LANSING'S SECOND STATEMENT:
"I have learned from several quarters that u
wrong impression was made by the statement
which I made this morning, and I wish to cor
rect that impression.
"My intention was to suggest the very direct
and necessary interest which this country as one
of the neutral nations has in the possible terms
which the belligerents may have in mind, nnd
1 did not intend to intimate that the Govern
ment was considering any change in its policy
of neutrality which it has consistently pursued
in the face of constantly increasing difficulties.
"I regret that my words were open to nny
other construction, as I now realize that they
were. I think that the whole tone and lan
guage of the note to the belligerents show the
purpose without further comment on my part.
It is needless to say that I am unreservedly in
support of that purpose and hope to see it accepted."
j j
GREEK KING SURE
GERMANY WILL LOSE
Coioluutiiie Convinced On
ti-nl Power Can't ResiiM
Beyond Spring.
fiprcial Cable finnlrk in Tn Xiv
iiniiB. lire. 21. Areor.iiug t coiidiien-1
llaJ infownulion iivallaote to the Itnllan 1
iv-ielgn (mice from Athens, where the I
Italian Mlnlnter conducted the negotlft-
lxiwten Ureeoe and the Allies,
pi lilcli neie successfully ronuluded by tho
I ncccnl jure hv Ulcere nf the iiHIiitHtiim
of the Allie, King r.'onstantlne is con-!
v",c"1 ''" rt"f" '' military success
or the Central 1'owers their Internal sit -
t'atlon Is so tenous that further resist -
ance beyond next .spilng seems prac-
:l'a!ly Impossible,
jue iviug or me Hellene. Mbose in-(i,
palhles are still for lleimony. has been," ' " "" "
liifonned that (crmau)'s peace proposal
nnce of th. (filr.ii li.n,-rM ii.. .,
' .r-."t-
p.mcrless to Mid (Iieece aualnst the
Allies. Thl. fact explain, the Immediate.
und unconditional ucreplnnee of the ultl-.
malum of the Allien and compliance with
their demand that the Oreek army be
transferred to the Mmri, thus reuilerlnt
Impossible any attempt 011 the put t of.
(treece to Join the Cential Powers and'
?. . . . ""'., "ar.V"' ,.?.rniy ,". ,.eM'.hmull..ii 1111 lo llu pro- lmi It
.1. imviuir iiii sviiig s.unstaniine s
donos lion will now n imih,uni 1...111
after the war
Lospo.v. Dec. 21 The new note of t!ie'nn" ltcil lo tin." Stiilf l)'ut:l-
Entente Allien n flreecc, which accord-1 "H'lll.
vj to the iindtutanillnii here was me- Sir Civil Suriim-ltlif. llu- IlrltUh
rented to-day, Includes, auys IleuKr's
....r'.'.. "
The runtisu'of leecr.iuhs. nosts and
lallwavs: the release nf nil VenlHi
prisoners, the ptohlbltloii of meetings
ieervlsts nnd an Inquiry by a mixed
rommlssloii into the dirttith.ircc of De
cember 1 and
H0U8EWIVZS SANIES TREE.jS,,f l,!f,
mull tlllll llrlll-Il AmliUNsnilois WCIV renentatu e- of lite Allies, coupled with
l.eaaar I rget llntaru lo (be Pa-1 obliged lis is (ncll nthiT ill tin the fact that the note had been cnthusl.
parlons Mocking, j Stills' P(pn rl nil-Ill. Wlilcll llicy slid , astlcally leoeUed in tho (tcrmun iin
Be,. use of Ihe 1,1.1, cost of Chrls.nuM Wl!fm"!,.i? '"I'i!'": 1? ?.l,.e'?:
Iratm Hi.. llnii..u.i.. 1...,. I. -.1,1.-
ing the publlo to dispense with tlieui Ie-vUtnK that this Oovernment lind
this ar and iBturi, to the good old 1 received Hnmethlng In the way of se
f.shloucd custom of hanging up stoi k-' cr-t mlviivr. fintn Iih illilomutlc psciuh
lugs. hlncr the riirman peace piopni.ii wiih ,
"W- imiiscst that every member of' nm.l, ilmi hn.i 1.., tn tli l'rl.loi,rj
that every member of
this In anticipation of
the family do this In anticipation of,
the visit of Santa Claus," said Mis.
Jullin Heath yeoterdnr. "While the
Christmas nee Is bright and ntttactlvo
never ran tuke the place of the bulg
ing stocking."
HARVEY DOW GIBSON
HEADS A BANK AT 34
I
j Succeeds TllOIIiaS Coclu'011
IIS
President of the Idliei ly
National.
Another of the gloup of uung men
who are forging to the finut In financial
affairs took his (-eat nt the head of the
directors' table yesterday Willi the elec
tion of Harvey Dow Gibson, 31 years old.
to tho presidency of the Liberty National
Hani!. He succeeds Tlnnnus Cochran.
who has retired lo become n member of1
tho firm of J, P, Morgan it Co. on Janu-!
ary I.
Mr. mucin ii a native or .xoilli ('on
way, .. H and a grnduata of Buwdoln
i.ouege in inr class oi isuf, ilo was
ursi i'i!ipioeu o- iiiu Ainrricau r.xpress
Company In Boston and then In New
York. Later with several business nsso
elates he obtained control of Ilaymonrl A
Whltcomb Company, of which oiganlsii
tlon he became vice-president. When
Seward Prosatr, now president of the
Hankers Trust Company, was made presi
dent of th Liberty National Bank some
four year ago he Invited Mr. Ulbson to
accompany 1,1m as assistant to the presl-dent.
Count Von Bernstorff Elated by
What He Considers an Indorse
ment of Germany's Proposal
to Entente Allies
WILSON SEEN IN AN EFFORT
TO KEEP PEACE DOOR OPEN
Secretary of State Hastens to Correct Impres
sion Abroad That U. S. Will Depart
From Neutral Policy.
i YyASHINGTON, Dec. 21. President Wilson's noted td
(the belligerents suggesting that they exchange views on pom
laible peace terms and guarantees for the future led to
situation to-day quite unparalleled.
With the notes generally accepted at the capital and else-
where as a move toward peace, Secretary Lansing attempted
this morning an explanation of the message, which came with' ,
such a shock that later on in the day, following a talk with
the President, he was impelled to modify it.
It was the emphasis placed by Secretary Lansing on tho
critical situation this country was now in with respect to tho
(conflict, and his statement that we had been drawing "nearer
to the verge of war ourselves," that constituted the surprising
development this morning and
peace in which many of the President s supporters had been
indulging. This was modified in the later statement by ti ,
denial that this Government "was considering any change in i
its policies of neutrality which it has consistently pursued iri '
the face of constantly increasing difficulties."
Situation Confuting to Diplomats.
With these two statements the situation to-night was still somewhat
confused as to the real purpose of the notes whether they were primarily '
Inspired by a real desire to bring about peace on the broad ground o
humanitarianlsm or whether the motive was a more selfish ono and in
I spired chiefly by the increasing: difficulties which this countrv was finHSnn
"n Keeping out or the struggle. The
fused themselves.
It was even intimuted at the
if the impression was created abroad
part from ita policy of neutrality a
ntfght be sent.
1-ciiilers In t'oiieivsi who liuil
1 'l'tcl tho l'lrshl.-nfo nolo, ilp.iiilie
Ills (INclillmtu-M, ns u mow on the pari
nf tliN titiverntuoiit to lirini; about
iMii ntlil who lfml even -ono n fur
... ,. .....l..ll,
... irmiiiuuii 111, iv, 1 sing
... i,.i.. .,0 ,1 . .1
ilfvolnpineiltr tit tits Sluts" Depart- ;
Mii.iir f.lI.-wK'..l 111 lulling lllVi.lllll.ll lltf
.......... ... "
'" "'""f It Wis till Itlllltll
Mnliv wore
Imllil.-il 1.. irilkiM- llu mannrr In
wich I lie xvliuli ulTillr littil lncn i'jii-
.1, ! ,. i
..... ,.1... ...enreil t.i 1 1 ... illidniii.irt.. 1
Ua "' " "mr ". . 1111 . hilUiltH. 1
' I'Cpl'OscntnllVfN Hi till' iK'lllgcri'ltt-
.iiiliiismliii-. mill lil iniifcrfcv of tin
LIIIHHi' lusl nil tlhli' III la'llllli: In llll
. " I'.''"' ' .'"U.,U u,,i 'nrtt.Jlyjxyrn
' l"" (Milieu iiist I'veillllU' n wiiui
In liiol; n mi lliilni'ii'lili'lil s T (iff.
liiilliy'- iiiiiiiosiil, wit- tilivioii-ly s hi. ""' "''t exception nt the Untento em-
.(rnc.1 ..wr l.,.il,..v's (!. .Ioiino.its. "'.'U
ii.ci.ieiit.iiiv in ii, iiii.Ni ..r th(..:f' , ? r't''!:" J,a,-t " bfpn.
I III "I'lir 111 s II" lllipi eesioil Henvi MII.V
nni,. i n,iu 11,.,. it -r. i.0,r
from a well Informed source to-day
liuil nothing nf the kind liud occiured.
Neither Ainbassnilor Piibii nur nny
of the other represeniHtlvcs at the
belligerent capitals. It wns stated, had
conveyed In uny way nny Infotniallon
that conditions were ripe for peace or
, that, despite their public proteMatlons
some such action on the pin t of this
nnverumeni would be looked upon
with favor.
Hint lu .Nriilral
11 wfi also Muted
Nnlloiia,
that mil-, the
merest
hint was lve to the other
muitriil tuitions of the notion this flov-
cininent Ii contemplating, Tliesu
(loverninentH had been very uiixluui
lo lfiirn wltut course we were lo take
with regurd lo the transmission of tile
Unman props-sal, Innitniicli ns they
wore culled upon aim to transmit It,
Hut they weie not taken Into tho
secret.
The first statement Issued by llie tsec
lotary of Htate was piefitced by .Mr,
Lansing's announcement that another
ship with American had been
sunk
r"'"v
i w,bout wut nlns by
a Herman subma-
i
The surprise occasioned by this state
ment nnd the visit of the itiplomats to
tho State Department wns still nt fever
heat when at 2 o'clock Secretary Lan
sing went over to the White Hoi we and
remained in conference with the Presi
dent for neatly an hour.
f-rsrstaont .Nt llltnlraarsl.
It ws rumored that the President had
become discouraged himself over the
1
rudely interrupted dreams of
diplomats appear to be plainly con
State Department this afternoon tha
that this country was about to de
second and supplementary messagq
Seielai's litlri pi ot jtloti of the note and
had tuinnnmeil ,, t0 the White Ilouee.
Hecieury Lansing, however, It warf
IcKined, himself sought the Interview
with the I'lesldeint, having been informed
of tl.c Itiiptrxslon that li'n lutcrniotatluii
' 1 . " '"1 IIIO
nun pruiiiiceii. ills visit
purjiose or inrorinlng tho President tif
' this nm! n 1,1. i.,, :,, . . . .
. .,, L' ".," ,'." ..''.'"" V. , r"' ' '
..... rii.uiiu Rt.IsiVtllVill.i A Hit fPCI'lVFL
......(.,. .i.ti.r., ma. lilt- ill"..
W.lw nttt' .rl(r.ll, 1. .Ii..l .1... .1.. ......
' 1,,c"1 elessed uny dlnploHeure over"
,c'wu,, -'' Prctary.
o . .f Te,a,in . which ptomptcl
rVeietary Lansing's frank ottf.iiic of tl.a
Anierleau attitude Ibli inoriilnif la im-
uerstood lo have been the fact, deep:
Impics'-eil upon the State Pepartmcnt,
that the Ur.tente reprose ntntlves had
been otTemlcU by the intetfeieme uf the
United Slates at thl time.
IIUailolnleil In 1 be ,iile.
As Tun Ki-n stated this morning Kits
tetitu dlplnmnls wein jistonished und
Wtily disappointed at tho President'
communication. They looked upon It us
I I. enforcing the Cer.nan neace. nrnnnt
h "iu more narm limn good lo
"V'V. rrospect of even discussing peace
w'l'inu HUH lu urinu
up with nioio forceful emphasis ttwt
pan of th note In which the bltustlon
or tuei neutral nations was louclied upon.
Hack of this, too. In view of lecent
,belopnieiits, presumably, was the de
she to seive n timely srsiTilutr to Oer
many lb t icMirtiitl'in of ruthless sub
marine wnifaio would lead the United
Slates, slioiild the war continue, to con
elder thioivitiK its full weight with tins
Kntente.
'la tolerable" Condi I Ions,
Apparently Mr L.iiiiing wanted to
bring out the Idea that Invasion of
American lights by one of the belllger.
tuts or the other might eventually creata
a situation uh! ', the President had de.
scribed In Iho note as "Intolerable."
And when nny Ooverumciit condition be.
come tntolerabls) it is recognized lit
ihplomatln parlance that this means war.
Th belligerent note In Secretary Lan
i-Iiib's statement ol this morning did not
ccape any of Ihe foreign Ambassadors
here. P.ui fount on Bernstorff plainly
placed bin interim latlon upon It, which
was in keeping with tho traditions ot
Ucimun diplomacy,
He pointed out that a striking exam
pl of Secretin)' Lansing's warning was)
now lo bo seen in tho plight of Clreece,
a neutral nation, hn said, whoso con
dition hail plainly become "Intolerable."
He believed that Secretary lousing had
some such Idea In mind. Tho uso In th
note of th world "Intolerable" led to
! "ii" n spruuiaiiuu as m ins gravity to De
I ullneli,.,! in II.
1 l.anslna Pnla l ( p
ii Wilson.
Secretary Lauslnir, when asked this1
afternoon as tn what signlncam-e thU
had, replied: "You will huvo to ink th
President, It was used at hi direction."
Ilo made It plain that the unto In gen
eral went no further than to ask th
belligerents to avow their purposes, and
was Insistent In hi talk In the afternoon
, that It was not to be Interpreted In any
way aa a threat,
I lu the midst of the condition which
WrirT?J,assiiissw swi .
V
OMa-aaaaaatMa t - ., , .. -
II
