ESTABLISHED 1845.
Dr. George Hen Johnston, Na?
tive of Tazewell, Victim of
Heart Failure At His Home
In Richmond.
This community was greatly shock?
ed Wcsdncsday to hoar that the dis?
tinguished physician and surgeon. Dr.
George Bon Johnston was dead.
His death occurred at one o'clock
Wosdnesday, at his home in Rich?
mond. He had not been well for sev?
eral years, hut only within the past
few months had he boon confined to
his home.
His death was sudden and unexpect?
ed. His partner, Dr. Willis left Rich?
mond Tuesday night for Tazewell, to
be present at the meeting of the med?
ical Society Wednesday, and heard
with deep grief and surprise of the
death, after reaching Tazewell.
Dr. Johnston was born and par?
tially reared in this town, and always
retained a very tender regard for
Tazewell and her people. It. is said
that he kept a parcel of Tazewell
earth in his office which ho wished put :
upon his grave. Do wanted to sleep, I
be said, beneath Tazewell soil. <
_ Dr. Johnston was one of the most 1
distinguished and widely known sur- '
geons in the United States, lie was <
one of the founders of the American '
College of Surgery, the Memorial '?
Hospital, of Richmond, and later, of I
the Jonhstnn-Willis Sanitarium, of I
Richmond.
His death is greatly regretted by I
members of the medical fraternity 1
everywhere, and leaves a wide gap ill '
their ranks. I
He was twice married, and leaves '
a ?widow and four daughters. His ago 1
is given us (14 years. 1
MEDICAL SOCIETY MEETS |
The regular monthly mooting of \
the Tazewell County Medical Society ,
was held here Wednesday afternoon.
The Society, of which Dr. R. B. Gil
Jespie is President, had the pleasure
of entertaining a number of distin- ,
guished physician guests. The visi- ,
tors included Dr. A. M. Willis, Dr.
C. C. Coleman, and Dr. Maurice i
Hutchinson, of Richmond; Dr. J. R.
King, of Radford, Dr. Kirk, Dr. Sloe',
and Drs. C. T. and Wade H. St.
Chair, or Bluefleld.
The society met in the ladies club <
room* Wednesday afternoon and Iis- i
teneii with interest to the reading of
a paper by Dr. Coleman on "Tho In?
juries to the Head." The paper was
discussed by Drs. Wade St. Clair and i
Dr. Willis. The presentation of the I
? paper by Dr. Coleman, who is a spec- <
lallst in brain troubles, was consul- I
ored the feature of the session. As
the Association was assembling a tel- I
egram was received announcing the 1
sudden death in Richmond of Dr.
George Ben Johnston, which threw a (
gloom over the occasion. A paper
which Dr. Willis had prepared was I
not read, neither were the pa"ors of I
Drs. Hutcheson, King and Holler.
The train from the Bast missed I
collection with the Clinch Valley train '
in Bluefield, making the visitors at- '
rival in Tazewell so late in the af- 1
tcrnou that much of the contemplated i
program for the day had to be dis?
pensed with.
After the exercises in the club ?
rooms, the society adjourned in a
body to the Jefjfersonvillc hotel,
where a banquet was served.
The society accepted gratefully tho
tender of the medical library of Dr. '
,1. R. Gildcrslceve. Dr. Gilderslecvc '
was a successful practitioned in this
county for years and one of organ?
izers of the County Medical Society,
and its first President. The gift of
his valuable library is only another
evidence of bis interest in the so- '
ciety. The books will be placed in
the ladies club room, and will be
a valuable addition to the library of
the reading room also.
THE NEEDY OF THIS TOWN.
Tazewell has, perhaps, as few des?
titute people as has any other town
in all the country. But doubtless there
aro some unfortunates, who, at this
Christmas time, will have little or
nothing to mark the days as different
from other days. No matter the
cause or why?the fact remains.
Some men are so sorry and lazy as to
deserve nothing themselves. They
have energy enough, however, to pre?
sent themselves at the table three
times a day, and partake heartily of
such food as their wives have provid?
ed. This class, if there be such in
this town, do not deserve notice, hut
their wives and children do, and they
should he remembered in our distri?
bution of gifts. And the little chil?
dren will look in vain for a visit from
Santa Claus, unless some one else
sees to the matter. Remember, the sick
and the children.
MONEY POR CATAWBA.
Sunday, December 10th was observ?
ed by many of the churches all over
the country as Tuberculosis Day, the
object being, first to inform the peo?
ple on the subject and also to take u
collection for the help of the unfor?
tunate patients in the sanitariums.
The Methodist church of this town
took a collection on that day for tho
poor at Catawba, unable to pay their
way, and the sum of $21.00 was se?
cured. This amount will pay the ex?
penses of a patient for four wcek3, at
$5.00 "t>cr week, the amount the pa?
tients nrc required to pay. The ex?
penses of the patients there, all told,
amount to $11.08 per week, of which
amount the State pays $fi.08 and the
patients $5.00. The sanitarium is
doing a great work for the people of
Virginia, but is seriously lacking ad?
equate facilities for the accommoda?
tion and treatment of the large num?
ber of sufferers in this State.
BRITTAIN NOT READY TO
ACGEPT PEACE TERMS
London, Dec. 1!).?Premier Lloyd
George referring in the House of
Commons today to German proposals
for a peace conference, declared that
peace without "complete restitution,
reparation and effectual guarantees
for the future." was impossible.
The Premier ouoted Abraham Lin?
coln, when he said:
" 'We accepted this war for an ob?
it .-i, and n world object, and the war
will end when the object is attained
under God.
" 'It will never end until that time.'"
To enter into a conference on the
invitation of Gerany. proclaiming her?
self victorious, without any knowl
ijdgc of what proposals she propos?
es to make, the Prime Minister said,
iVnsi to "put our heads into a noose
with the rope end in the hands of
Germany."
The Premier's Speech.
Kisitifr in the House ai'ew minutes
after ?! o'clock, the Prime Minster
said:
"I appear before the House of Com?
mons today with the most terrible
responsibility that can fall upon the
shoulders of any living man as chief
adviser to the crown, in the most gi?
gantic war in which this country was
uver engaged, a war upon the event."
at which its destiny depends. It is
the greatest war over waged; the bur
lens are the heaviest that have been
East upon this or any other country,
and the issues the gravest that have
been attached to any conflict in which
Immunity was ever involved.
"The responsibilities of the new
govci nment have been suddenly ac?
centuated by the declaration made
>y tiie tier.nan chancellor. The state
meat made by hi.-.i in the l'eieh.-.t\"
lias been followed by a note Drcajnl
ed by the United States wi bout net
ar comment, 'flic answer giv :n b
this government will be given in full
u ci.rd with our allies.
"Naturally there has been r.n ir.
torchangc of views, not upon the note
because it has only recently ai rived
liut upon the speech which implied
it, and, as the note itself is practi?
cally only a reproduction or a para?
phrase ef the speech, the sul ject mat
tor of the note itae-lf has been dis?
missed informally between the allies
i am glad to be able to state that we
nch separately and independently nr
ived at identical conclusions.
"I am very glad that the first an?
swer given to the statement of the
German chancellor was given by
France and Russia. They have tlic
i)i|uestionublc right to give the first
ills wer to such an invitation. The
nemy is still on their soil and their
sacrifices have been greater.
In Complete Agreement.
"The answers they have given have
il ready appeared in the papers, and
I simply stand here to give clear ami
iefinite support to the statement they
Imvo already made.
"Any man or set of men who wan?
tonly or without sufficient cause pro?
longed a terrible conflict like this
would have on his soul a crime that
iccans could not cleanse.
"On the other hand, if is equally
I rue that any man or set of men who
from a sense of weariness or despair
abandoned the struggle without
achieving the high purposes for which
we entered it, would be guilty of the
costliest act of poltroonery ever per- I
petrated by any statesman. 1 should
like to quote bet words of Abraham
Lincoln under similar conditions:
" 'We accepted this war for an ob?
ject, and a world object, and the war
will end when the object is attained
under God. I hope it will never end
until that time.'
"Are we likely to attain the object
by accepting the invitation of the
German Chancellor? What are the
proposal:-.? They are none.
"To enter, on the invitation of Ger?
many proclaiming herself victorious,
without any knowledge of what pro?
posals she proposes to make, into a
conference is to put our heads into
a nose with the rope end in the
hands of Germany.
AGAINST PEACE.
The Entente Pact?The british,
French and Russian governments
agree that when the terms of peace
come to he discussed, no one of the
allies will demand conditions of peace
without the previous agreement of
each of the other allies.
Davis Lloyd George (now premier).
October 1, 191?.?Germany elected to
make it a finish fight with England.
Now we intend to see that eGrmany
has her way, the fight must be to a
finish?to a knockout.
Former Premier Asquilh, October
11, 1916?This war cannot be allowed
to end in some patched up., precarious
and dishonorable compromise, mas?
querading under the name of peace.
Lord Norcliffe, November 23,
1016?The suggestion that Great
Brittain should consider peace can on?
ly be regarded as hostile.
Premier Alexander Trepoff of Rus?
sia, December 2, 191??The whole
world must know once more that Rus?
sia and he rvaliant allies will mobil?
ize to the last man. The war will be
carried on to a decisive end, until
the German yoke and German vio?
lence have disappeared forever.
Premier Brinng of France, Cham?
ber of Deputies, September lit, 191?
?If peace were made now it would
be a peace of war and a menace to
future generations.
Viscout Grey, of England, October
23, 191??We shall fight until we have,
established the supremacy and right
of free development under equal con?
ditions, each in accordance with its
genius, of all states, great and small,
as a family of civilized mankind.
NEEL-IIALE WEDDING.
Mr. Dnvid Neel and Miss Mollic
IJale were married Wednesday at the
home of the bride on Bluestonc. The
bride is the attractive daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Ed. C. Hale, and the
eroom, a son of M. F. Neel of Clear
Fork. This paper extends hearty
, congratulations to these young people
' and their parents as well.
TAZEWELL, VIRGINIA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22. 1?>16.
A Visit From St. Nicholas.
Twas tho night before Christmas, when all through
ilia bouse
Not -\ creature wna .stirring, not even a mouse;
The stockings were hung hy the chimney with care,
In the hopes that St. Nicholas soon would he there;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds
While vhveus of sugar plumbs danced in their heads;
And mamma in her 'kerchief and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter's nap?
When out. on the lawn there arose such a clatter
I sprang from my beil to see wdiat was the matter.
Away to the window I Hew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters and threw up tho sash,
The moon on the breast of the new fallen snow
Cave a lustre of midday to objects below;
When what to my wandering eyes should appear
But a miniature sleigh and eight tiny reindeer,
With a little old driver so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his courses thoy came,
And he whistled and shouted, called them by name:
"Now Hasher! Now Dancer! Now Prancor and Vixen
On Comet! on Cupid! on Dondcr and Blitzen!
To the to)) of the porch, to the top of the wall!
New dash away, dash away, dash away all!"
As dry leaves before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky,
So up to the house top the coursers they flew,
With the :leighs full of toys?and St. Nicholas, too.
And then in n twinkling 1 heard on tho roof
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head and was turning around,
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a hound.
He was dressed all in fur from his head to his foot
And his clothes all tarnished with atdies and soot;
A bundle of toys he had Hung on his back,
And he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.
His eyes how they twinkled! his dimples how merry!
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry;
His drowl little mouth was drawn up like a bow,
And the beard on his chin was as white as the snow.
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his tooth,
And the smoke It encircled his head like a wreath.
He had a broad face ami a little round belly,
That shook when he laughed like a howl full of jelly,
He was chubby and plump- a right jolly old elf;
And I laughed when I saw him. in spile of myself.
A wink of his eye and a twisl. of his head
Soon gave me to know 1 had nothing to dread.
He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And filled all the stockings; then turned with a jerk,
And laying his linger aside of his nose
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose,
He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all Hew like the down a thistle;
But I heard him exclaim, as he drove out of sight,
"Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good night!"
? Clement A. Moore.
JENKINS JONES IS DEAD J
Pocahontas, Va., Dec. 20.?The
death of Jcnkin Jones at Freeman,
Tuesday morning removes one of the I
most sucessful men who ever enter-'
ed the Pocahontas coal field to make
his abode here. In the earl - history j
of this field he came to Bramwell and
purchased or leased lands and began j
his career as a coal operator in this
field. He has grown in wealth, pow-1
or and influence in the thirty odd j
years that he had been here. He was '
easily one of the most commanding
figures in the coal field. He had a,
bright, cheerful disposition, and was
always plain and unassuming. The i
writer remembers a true story which ?
indicates the simplicity of the man.
Several years ago while Mr. Jones'
was standing at the station at Sim
mons, when the train came in a well |
dressed drummer stepped off the train ,
with his grip, or sample case and in?
quired where the office of Mr. Jones
was. Mr. Jones pointed out the place..
The stranger then asked if there was
any one there who would take his
grip over. Mr. Jones snid, "I'll take
it over," which he did. On reaching
the oflico. imagine the look on the,
drummer's face when he ascertained
that this man who took his grip over
was the same Mr. Jones he was look?
ing for. He was the father of Col.
Jas. Elwood Jones, and he has also
a daughter living, Mrs. Roy Van
Wert of New Orleans. She has been
with Mr. Jones during his illness. He
was 70 years old. The town of Jenk
iu Jones is named in bis honor. lie
had a strong hold upon the working
men as well as upon all who camo HI
contact with him. He was a man of
wonderful personality. The funeral
was held at Simmons Thursday, at?
tended hy hundreds who knew and
loved him.
Community Christmas Tree.
The community Christmas tree is
enlisting the interest of the young
people at the present time, ast they
are in raining for a program in con?
nection with it. It will be held Mon
dav. afternoon at 6:30.
W. S. Penn, of Richlnnds, was here
Saturday.
R. O. Crockett, of Tnzcwell, was in
the city Saturday on business.
Rev. J. Tyler Frnzicr is visiting
TO MY CUSTOMERS:
I take this means of thank?
ing my customers, one and all,
for their past patronage dur?
ing the year now about to pass
and for the many years that
I have been in business. It has
been my policy to please my
customers, remembering that
thereby is the only means by
which I can carry on a suc?
cessful business.
It has been through you that
I have been able to run such a
business and it shall be my
plan during the coming years
for this reason to please you
more than ever.
Thanking you again, and
wishing you n Merry Christ?
mas and a Happy New Year, I
am,
Yours most respectfully,
H. W. POBST.
his son, C. C. Frazier this week.
? Mrs. John Izurd was here from
Roanoko this week, the guest of Miss
Rilla Saunier at the Pocahontas Inn.
Mrs. Ethel Dupuy and Mrs. C. S.
Minter were among the Blueftold
shoppers this week.
W. It. Graham, President of the
First National Bank of Pocahontas,
was here this week on business.
J. Richard Peery, who is studying
law at Washington and Lee Univer?
sity, is at home for the Christmas
holidays. Richard is a bright hoy
and deserves much credit and we hope
he will soon succeed in his chosen
profession. Squire Peery has two
sons, the oldest, W. R. Peery is a me?
chanic employed by the Pocahontas
Consolidated Collieries Co. Both his
hoys are sober, industrious young
men.
The R. F. I), hoys are great con-j
veniences?in fact, they are neces?
sary now absolutely, lake the tide
phone they are a houshold and a bUH
iuess necessity. Wouldn't it be a nice
handsome, well deserved compliment,
to the R. F. D. carriers for the pat
ions along their routes to remember
them at this time? Uncle Sam is a
good paymaster, but ho doesn't prom?
ise great salaries, amid the carrier
are at considerable expense. His
horse is to he fed, his vehicle kept
in repair all at his ow,n expense. By
the time all these expenses are paid
and the family supported, there is
precious little, if anything., loft Why
not have a bushel of corn, or a few
feeds of oats of a few mosses of po?
tatoes, etc., ready next time, ami pul
{them in his buggy or wagon. He
would appreciate it. and you would
show a just appreciation of the men
[who servo you every day, rain or
shine, the "ear around. Such a sug?
gestion has not been made hereto?
fore, anywhere, so far as the writ?
er knows, and this one is made with?
out the knowledge of any of the car?
riers. Should this hint bo taken and
acted upon, this paper wants tho
names of all the donors and the gifts.
JUST A SUGGESTION.
Why not remember one of vour
friends with a year's subscription to
the Tazewell Reading Rooms? It
only costs two dollars and the Sec?
retary will send the person to whom
it is given, a Christmas card with
your name. Send orders to Mrs. Jno.! Pocahontas?Dr. L. J. Stump, J. M
E. Jackson, Treasurer, Tazewell, Va. Newton.
TAZEWELL PEOPLE AT COM?
MERCIAL CONGRESS.
The Tazewell people who attended
the Southern Commercial Congress
in Norfolk last week, all returned de?
lighted with their visit. The county
wnn represented by the following
gentlemen:
Tazewell?Geo. W. St. Clair, Chas.
R. Brown, John S. Bottirnore,, Archie
Thompson, Geo. A. Marlin. J. N. Har
man, L. A. Tynes.
North Tazewell?Charles H. Peery.
D. B. Daniels, Joe Litz.
Burke's Garden?R. M. Lnwson, A.
S. Grecver.
Cedar Bluff?Chapman II. Peery
Rev. F. M. Buhrman.
Richlnnds?W. B. F. White J. B.
Crabtrcc.
lift*
FDR UNITED STATES
Washington, Hoc. I?. The agita?
tion for some sort of compulsory
military service in the United States
rccicvcd qualified .support from Sec?
retary linker t inlay lie Tore the House
military committee, encouraging op?
ponents of the present volunteer sys?
tem to predict that legislation for a
change might he framed which would
he sanctioned l>y Mr. linker and pos?
sible by President Wilson. The Presi?
dent hits said he would not attempt
to re ich a derision on the subject
i-itt.il :. dclinitc plan was placed hc
rorc him.
Replying to a direct qiiHlion a in
his viewi on compulsory military
ieryico, Secreti ry [inker said:
"'I In- liiiligaliou t" serve the COUII
iy is a Universal one. The question
f hew to In im': about preparations for
uatii nal defense is one of policy rather
Jinn theory. Whether universal mili?
tary service of a selective conscription
s the correct, answer I do not know.
I I'he theory of a common interest in
[ . common country would be satisfied
.. .1 Method of selecting soldiers that
was uni voluntary in chnmeter."
(.ive Guard Pair Trial
The Secretary told the committee,
however thai since Congress hail re?
jected (he continental army plan in
flivor nf the national guard system he
believed the guard should be given
a fair Irin. 11 lo did not nmplyfy his
suggestion in regard to the selective
conscription, but it is understood the
plan under consideration contemplates
the making of an inventory of men,
as is being dune with industrial re
sources, and vising a lllvllUS when
by every cili7.cu would be made liable
in a war emergency for the character
of work for which he is liest fitted
by his potlt'e time training.
In the near future Mr, Haler will
appear before (be Senate sub com?
mittee which is hearing the opinions
of army ollieials apd others on the
Chamberlain universal tl'uillill" bill.
Major General Scott, chief of stall',
wns again before the Hub-committee
today, urging universal service legis?
lation and submitting lb." report mi
the mobilijottjou or the national guard
for border duly compelled by Col, W.
i'. Itrowa, From all information avail?
able at the War Dnnnrtnumf.
The conclusion of the general stall.
General Scott said, that no adequate
defense could be built up under the
present volunteer system, was fully
substantiated by the reports of do
piitrineiital commanders, inspectors,
instructors and others, included in
Col. Brown's compilation. ,
Col. Brown, wlio commanded tin
Tenth cavalry, under General Per
shing and led the detachment whirl
dealt the most severe punishment ti
the Villa bandits, was before the com?
mittee himself and told of (he hard
ships the troops in Mexico encoun?
tered, of the forced marches ami tor
rille pace set, adding I hill only thor?
oughly trained men ami animals were
able In Stand t be I rain.
Mobilization Report.
The mobilization rcporl shows that
of 128,000 enlisted men of the militia
inspected on the border, 81,1711 or ti.'l
per cent, were ither transferred from
militia organizations not called out.
or were new recruits, leaving only 517
per cent of the force "representing
the national guard or (he organized
militia (dement on (he rolls of the or?
ganizations in question nl Hie date
of call."
Of those who were mi I lie rolls at
the time of the call, according to the
report, 47,0157 were lost for various
causes (luring the period of transi?
tion into the federal service, making
the national guard as it went to the
border substantially a volunteer
force. Of Hie number lost, 7,258 fail
ed to respond lo the call al all, anil
2!l,72l were rejected for physical dis?
ability.
The report, says lilt per cent of 81,
?2<;:{ men had less than three months'
military training of any illd and
more than 00,000 none lit all, when
they reached the border. 'I'he rcporl
shows thai. MI.813 never bad fired a
military rifle at all and that more
than 14,000 others had received rat?
ing of los sthnn fust class at the
targets.
Secretary Baker was warm in bis
[praise of the enlisted regulars and
I informed the house committee that
[he fliliad approved a suggest ion that
their pay be raised lo $2G a month,
lie was enthusiastic over Ihr sum?
mer training camp plan.
"I believe," he said, "that if the
United Stales were in a major emer?
gency, !)!? per cent of those who at?
tended the Plnttsburg encampment
I would enlist and be of very great
value to (he government. They would
beat (he rest of us to it."
Tili: I.AST CALL FOR CHRIST?
MAS.
With this issue we bid "good-bye"
to the old year and also lo a number
of our old friends and subscribers
who are in arrears and pay no atten?
tion to statements sent them. They
know that we cannot pay increase
cost of paper and other things, and
carry a free list of readers. We shall
send out this paper this week to the
entire list- paid and unpaid, with our
good wishes, but it will be the last
copy some of our readers will get
unless they reply to our statements.
This is the "Last Call for Christ?
mas."
WILL MAKE HOMES BRIGHTER.
These young people have arrived
home for the holiday season:
Elizabeth Ward from the Radford
State Normal; (Catherine Hall, from
Washington College, Washington, D.
C; Francis Litz, Mary Baldwin Semi?
nary, Staun ton; Mary ilarman and
ICnthcrinc St. (.-lair from Mary Bald?
win; Huston St. Clair, from Culver
Military Academy, Culver, Ind.; Her?
bert Ward, from V. P. I.; Misses Mar?
garet St. Clair and Marv Turk, will
arrive tomorrow from Welslcy; Miss?
es Emmaline Peirce and Eloise Grcov
er, from Elizabeth College, Salem.
$1.50 PER YE AU
Sends Note lo Warring Nations
In Hope That Some Means
May He Found That Will In?
sure Early and Permanent
Peace.
Washington, l)< .?. 21, 12:00 a. in.?
I*?-?-.-i.I.-? ? i Wilson lias oj>|M. ilvtl lo all
tin' belligerent '(? discuss terms of
ponce.
Wilhoul actually proposing peace,
or ottering mcilialioii, the president
has sent formal notes to thu govern?
ment, of all the warring nations sug?
gesting that 'an early occasion bo
sought tu call out from the nations
now at war auch avowal of their
respective view . lie terms upon
which tin- wai mi' hi in' concluded and
arrangements wl i !i wou i be deemed
satisfactory as n gunra Hoe against
its renewal or [tie kind illg of any
similar eonllicl in Iho future as would
make il pos ;ii le frankly in compare
them."
Wholly without notice, and ell
lively contrary lo what administra?
tion Otllcialtt have de: ci died as his
euurac, the president but. night dis?
patched the notes to all the helig
rculs and to all the neutrals for their
information.
It was a lUOHl distinct surprise lo
all official Wlltibillgloil, which had
been led to believe that with the for
mal (ran initial of the proposals of
the central powei the good ollkes of
the Unit. . Stale would await furth?
er move: between the belligerents
Ibniselves. and thai cerlninly, in view
nf the speech of Premier Loyil
(Scnrgu and the iinnnuncemculs in
ItUHiiia, Prance and Italy, further
aet ions by neutrals would de;.end
upon Hie next (.ireful and delicate
moves of Hie belligerents.
The whole tenor of ntllciul opinion
throughout Washington when the
president's action became known was
thai it immeasurably improves the
prospects for Homu suit of exchange
looking toward an approach i f peace
discussions between the belligerents,
wilhoul impill'ing thu position of the
United Slates, should Ihey finally be
uiuible to liiui a ground on which to
approach one another.
Then all the notes proceed identi
caly ns follows:
"The president, .suggests that an
early occasion be sought to call out
from all the nations now at war such
an avowal of (heir respective views
as to the terms upon which the war
might be concluded and the arrange?
ments which would be deemed .satis?
factory as a guarantee against its re?
newal or the kindling of any similar
conflict in |ho fulare :.s would make
il possible frankly lo compare (hem.
ile is indifferent as to Hie means tak?
en In accomplish Ibis. He would be
happy himself tn servo or even tnke
thu Initiative in its accomplishment in
any way thill might prove acceptable,
but be has no desire In determine III.'
methods or i be instrumentality. One
way will be as acceptable lo him ns
another if only the great object he
has in mini, be iilluilicd.
"It may be thai peace is nearer
than we know; thai terms which the
belligerents on the one side and on
the other would deem ii necessary to
insist upon are not irreconcilable as
some have feared; that an Inter?
change ol views would clear tllO wav
al least lor Conference.-: and make the
permanenl concord of the nations a
hope cf the immediate future; a con
cerl of nations immediately practic?
able.
"The pi e. ideal is liol proposing
peace; he in not even offering media?
tion. He is rix 11y proposing that
soundings be taken in order (hat we
may learn- (he neutral nations with
the belligerents?how near the heaven
of peace may be for which nil man
I i in I longs with an intense and in?
creasing longing. He believes thllU
I he spirit in which he speaks ami the
object? which la seeks will be under?
stood by all concerned and he confi?
dently hopes for a response which
will bring a new light into the affair
of the world."
Till': WAP MOTHER.
She is listening fur Hie voices that
forever may be dumb;
She is waiting for a vision that per?
haps may never come;
III her heart a memory fades?
Ah, these frightful, ghastly shades!
In her eyes the smoke of carnage, in
her ears the thundering drum.
She is yearning for the brightness of
tomorrow's morning sky;
And she pictures a reunion when lb"
long, dark night is by.
In her gaze a face appears?
Oh, the blinding mist, of tears! ?
And"yet ever, sharply shrilling, comes
the bugle's blatant cry.
She ie dreaming of his valor?mother
love is ever bold;
Hoots and spurs and muddy khaki
lighted by the sheen of gold;
In her soul hopes shines anew?
They must live! Her sons, so true!
Hark! The booming of the cannon
turns her heart's blood deathly
cold!
She is listening for voices that she
loves so well, so well,
Ami she's watching for the loved ones
while the brazen moments knell,
In her heart pride's fire aglow?
Then the chilling breath of woe,
And forever, shrieking, shrieking, the
loud screaming of a shell!
?N. Y. Times.
DEATH OF A BAPTIST MINISTER.
Rev. .1. B. Newton, of Salemburg,
N. C, died last Sunday morning. He
was principal of schools at Aulan?
der and other places. Later in lifo
[he entered the Baptist ministry. Ho
! was brother to Mr. J. M. Newton, the
well known insurance man of Po
cahontns and Graham.
