I METALPRICES Tfv ffft ' &fm WV I'4 " CITY EDITION I
I Newvor,oec.2,-sw, 75 3,e: U Jlf U I 1 I I V I I jgB I C I I I 1 t I II ' TWELVE PAGES j
1 rS.BP0ltcr' 510-00! sJ V(1WWV !r? ;
n copper, V . Saturday Fair, Except Snow In North- i
Mm fc-"' weBt Portion Saturday; Not Much j
H . - s '..:': : Change in Temperature. 1
I. : FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT..; PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' I !
I I y'h Y"r-N- 316- Price Five cy. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY 'EVENING, DECEMBER 22, 1916. - : E,.ri S.cond.C.a,. Matl.r at the Po,tffl., Ogdan. Utah t!
: ' : 1 . I f ! il
English Resent Wilson's Note
I Diplomats Eager to
j Learn Effect of Note
j on Neutral Nations
lAH Anxiously Watching for Indications of
I Whether Europeans, Not in War, Will Follow
Lead of United States Surprise at Fast
i -Growing Significance of Presidents
: i love Expressed n AH Sides
j .United Appeal of Al Mon-Bel-
; , ligerents Hoped For.
I London, Dec. 22, 1:50 p. m. An Exchange Telegraph
ii dispatch from The Hague says it is announced semi-officially
i that should the entente allies in their reply to the peace pro
posals of the Central Powers, leave the door open for negotia
H tions, Germany will make known her chief peace terms im-
mediately.
K Washington, Dec. 22. Official cop- ;
jfc ies of Secretary Lansing's two state- i
w ments of yesterday on President Wil
wiy son's notes to the belligerents have :
ft; been sent to all American diplomats .
Iml abroad for the information of the gov-! i
m ernments to which they are accredit-' j
ed In order that Lhere may be no mis- i
x construction there of the president's i
K purposes. '
m- Washington, Dec 22, jUhJhe ..
K purposes of President Wilson's note '
K.' to belligerents clarified by official
statements on the subject, the atten-; i
m; tion of the United States has turned ' :
H to the reception of the note in the
K foreign capitals- i
Bf Diplomats here are eagerly watch
K! ing for indications of whether the
European neutrals will follow the lead
H of the United States and make a sim
E ilar appeal to the warring powers.
B Clearing House for Views.
K There is growing feeling that the
Kj United States hopes to become the
ml clearing house for views and possi
w bly for terms of the belligerents. ev
K eral of the diplomats have advised
their governments to that effect, in
I order to guide them in their replies.
Kj Surprise at the fast growing signifi
Wk cance of the president's move was ex
wr pressed on all sides, where it was
Mt pointed out at first that the opinion
ff prevailed that the note itself -was
merely a "feeler" and that the most
mi immediately contemplated effect in
Kj issuing it was the receipt of some
mj sort of definition from the various
Bi warring nations. That the president
Bf should let it be 'known indirectly to
B the diplomats for their guidance that
Bj. ho went even farther than that and
Bf counted on an absolutely frank reply
Bf from the belligerents which would
Hi lead to an actual opportunity for ne
Bl gotiations, proved only less surprising
BI than the actual note itself.
Bj This feeling was increased by Sec
B retary Lansing's authorized statement
Bi yesterday that no soundings had been
B) taken of the attitude of the belliger
B$ ents addressed and that the note had
Bl been sent regardless of the Central
BI Powers' proposals or of the reply of
B Lloyd-George.
mi Question of United Appeal.
Br The question very much to the fore
K today was whetbeiythe European neu
1.1 trals would present a united appeal.
Bl The Spanish and Swiss representa
tives hero have been at the state de
partment repeatedly since those prc
' posals came out and probably know
fully the plans of this government
It is pointed out that the European
neutrals have 'suffered beyond any
other nations not actually involved in
the war and that peace is more es
sential to them than tox any but the
actual belligerents. In addition they
! have none of tho bitterness of war
and none of its ambitions and are anx
'. tous more for the coming of peace
than for tho accomplishment of any
-tt purpose. Nevertheless, their geo
IHf graphical position between the two
H contending forces has been so danger
Kf ous that up to now they have been
Wt able to do no more than maintain
WS their neutrality, without mixing in
KS the struggle even to suggesting peace.
Xt Part of this danger is, however,
Wi thought removed by the American ac-
f Diplomats Advice Friendly Answer.
Bf - Gradual clarification among the en-
Wf tente diplomats here of the presi-
Kf dent's purpose and indications that
Mi Ihoy would advise their governments
If lo reply in a friendly spirit, proved a
If source of deep gratification today, as
mi It was pointed out, both in the note
Iff Itself and In Secretary Lansing's ex-
f felanatlon, that one of the dangers
f ivas that the allies would consider the
If step as a pro-German move. Every
fj( effort was made to remove this im-
mk pression and to have the note con-
K- ndered entirely apart from any other
H fevents. The entente diplomats very
H iulckly have accepted this view.
E Charge Grew reported to tho slate
M Jopartment today that tlie president's
peace note had been received in Ber
lin. Early press comment pointed out
that the note which was very pleas
ing, because it is said that the ob
jects of the belligerents were prac
tically the same, was not unexpected
here, where attention has already
been drawn to the fact that Presi
dent Wilson specifically declared that
the published views of the opposing
statesmen left that impression.
. It- is stated that the-, president
would not presume to say that the
two groups were fighting for tho
same object but merely that their of
ficial spokesman had outlined much
tho same general program without
going into the actual details which he
now seeks.
Hundreds of Telegrams.
Several hundred telegrams congrat
ulating President Wilson on his note
to the belligerents arrived today at
the White House. Practically all of
them construed the note as a move
for peace. They came from Individ
uals and organizations. The White
House telegraphers were kept busy
for hours receiving the messages.
Central Powers Adequately Answered
Petrograd, Dec. 21, 1 p. m., via Lon
don, Dec. 22, 6:15 a. m. Since the
toxt of the German peace proposal
transmitted through the American
embassy to the Russian foreign office
is identical with the translation al
ready received unofficially through
the press, the Russian government,
the Associated Press is informed, con
siders that the offer of the Central
Powers has already been adequately
answered. The reply, in conjunction
with Russia's allies, will be made as
purely a matter of form and will con
tain no point. It is stated that it will
embody official sentiment heretofore
expressed and will emphatically re
ject the proposal on the ground that
its vagueness and lack of sincerity,
as so regarded by the Russian gov
ernment, do not permit of serious con
sideration. oo
III GEORGE
MAKESJPEECH
Parliament Prorogued and
Firm Confidence in Ultimate
Victory of Allies
Expressed.
London, Dec. 22, 2:14 p. m. Parlia
ment was prorogued this afternoon
when the members without being fur
ther informed regarding President
Wilson's note, or what action the gov
ernment contemplated with respect
to it.
Neither President Wilson's note nor
the German peace proposals was men
tioned in tho king's speech road In
both houses. Tho only reference to
the president's sugestion was mado
by Andrew Bonar Law, tho govern
ment leader, in reply to a question
by Sir William Polland Byles a pacif
ist member, Mr. Law declaring that
the question was one which could not
be dealt with except in common with
the allies.
Tho speech from the throne was one
of the briefest on record. It expressod
confidence in the ultimate victory of
the allies and determination to prose
cute the war "until we have vindicated
the rights so ruthlessly violated by
our enemies and established tho ae.
curlty of Europe on a sure founda
tion." Text of Speech.
Tho text of the klngrs speech was
as follows: ,
"My Lords and Gentlemen:
"Throughout the monthg that have
elapsed since I last addressed you, my
navy and my armp. In conjunction
with those of our gallant and faithful
allies have by their unceasing vigil
ance and indomitablevalor justified
the high trust I placed in them. I am
confident, howeverlong the struggle,
their efforts supported by the inflexi
ble determination of all my subjects
throughout the empire will finally
achieve the victorious consummation
of those aims for which I entered into
the war.
"My government has been recon
structed with the sole object of fur
thering those alms unaltered and un
impaired, and I thank you for the un
stinted liberality with which you con
tinue to provide for the burdens ot
the war.
"The vigorous prosecution of the
war must be our single endeavor until
we have indicated the rights so ruth
lessly violated by our enemies and
establish the security of Europe on a
sure foundation. In this sacred cause
I am assured of the united support
of all my peoples and I pray that the
Almighty God mya give us His bless
ing." King George was not present in
person at the prorogation which was
effected by the lard high chancellor
in the house of lords and by the
speaker in the house of commons
reading the king's speech. The pro
rogation of parliament is deferred
until February 7.
nn
STOCK MARKET
MAIESGAINS
Pronounced Change of Senti
ment in All Quarters Calm
Follows Yesterday's
Frenzied Session.
New York, Dec. 22. Buoyant re
coveries of from three to over ten
points at the opening of today's stock
market, prompted by the overnight
developments in the peace situation,
caused a hurried covering of short
commitments and a strong tone
throughout the forenoon session
There was a pronounced change of
sentiments jn all quarters, attributed
to a clearer view of the intent of
President Wilson's note to these bel
ligerent powers and to Secretary Lan
sing's second explanatory statement
published after the close of the mar
ket yesterday.
The weeding out of numerous weak
accounts yesterday was another fac
tor of importance contributing to a
stronger technical position, in the
market today. King George's speech
proroguing parliament also was an in
fluence apparently toward higher
prices.
The volume of trading moreover,
was materially diminished. Transac
tions during the first hour amounted
to 650,000 shares and although they
reached 1,200,000 shares by 12:30
o'clock this total did not equal the
trading of yesterday during the same
period. Compared with that frenzied
session, the market resembled the
calm after a storm.
Banking interests regarded today's
movement as a logical reaction from
the m&rket excesses and continued to
urge caution, reinforcing thiB attitude
by further discrimination against
stocks of shifting value.
New York, Dec. 22. Opening prices
on the stock market today showed a
sharp recovery from the closing quo
tations of yesterday.
' Gains of 2 to 8 points were register
ed by shares recently under greatest
pressure. Sentiment seemed to be
more cheerful, the strain of yester
day, apparently having been relieved
oy tne overnignt aeveiopments in me
peace situation.
The more noteworthy features of
the opening included United Stales'
Steel which on a single block of 25,
000 shares was up 104 to 104 1-2
agafnst yesterday's closing price of
101; Union Pacific 4 5-8; Central
Leather 6; Crucible Steel, 4 1-2; At
lantic, Gulf and West Indies, 4 1-2;
Marine preferred, 4 3-4; Utah Copper,
4 1-2; Lackawanna Steel 5; American
Woolen 6; Pittsburg Coal, 6 3;S; New
York Airbrake 8, and 2 to 5 pqinis for
prominent stocks.
The advance precipitated extensive
short covering which materially re
duced yesterday profits of that fac
tion. Wheat Advanceo.
Subsequently reports were circulat
ed that tho British commission was
again in the market as a buyer of
wheat. The effect of the reports was
a decided advance in prices, a result
which was greatly heightened by ru
mors that the forthcoming note from
the entente allies to the central pow
ers would be warlike. The market
closed strong 7 1-2 to 4 3-4c net high
er with May at ?1.67 3-4 to $1.68 and
July at 1.38 1-8 to ?1.38 3-8.
WILSON'S NOTE
AMAZESJRITISH
Big Headlines Indicate Aston
ishment Caused by Presi
dent's Communication
Motive Questioned.
GERMAN INFLUENCE
Action Unintelligible to Edin
burg Scotsman Runs Ex
treme Risk of Being
Misunderstood.
London, Dec. 22, 10:47 a. m. The
general public had their first news
of President Wilson's note from the
morning papers and the matter was
the one topic of conversation on in
coming suburban trains and through
out the country. The people, like the
press, were rather taken aback as
they had about arrived at the con
clusion that Premier Lloyd-George's
speech had put an end to all peace
talk unless the Central Powers, in
their reply to the premier, were pre
pared to define their terms. That the
president, or any other neutral ruler,
would take any action was farthest
from their mind.
The evening papers, which do not
print editorials, came out with big
headlines which expressed their views.
The Evening News, which is the aft
ernoon edition of the Daily Mail, heads
a reprint of the comment of the morn
ing papers, with the one word "No"
in large type and under it "Our An
swer to President Wilson" and again
"No, No, No, That is the Answer
Great Britain Gives Today Without a
Moment's Hesitation to the Surprising
Note from President Wilson."
British. Mike No. Statement.
London, Dec. 22, 12:55 p. m. The j
British government will make no '
statement at the present in regard to
President Wilson's peace note, con-1
sidering it a question that can be
dealt with only in communication
with the other members of the en
tente. Announcement to this effect was
made in the house of commons today
by Andrew Bonar Law, chancellor of
the exchequer and government lead
er in the house.
Mr. Law was asked whether a state
ment could be made regarding the
American note. He replied: 1
"It must be obvious to the house
that this is a question that can only
be dealt with in communication with
our allies and that it is absolutely I
impossible to make a statement now. I
i
London, Dec. 22, 3:40 a. m. Presi
dent Wilson's note is given the honor
of the biggest display in th morning
papers relegating the war news to a
minor place. Headlines such as
"President Wilson's strange, peace es-,
say:" "President Wilson's peace feel-;
er;" "Amazing note;" indicate in
slight measure the astonishment
caused by the communication. Much
speculation is indulged in aB to the !
motive or causes which inspired the
president to send such a note after
his assumption of the attitude that he ,
would not mediate unless invited by
both groups of belligerents.
Attribute Action to German Influence:
One section of the press, utterly re
jecting any idea of the possibility of
peace negotiations as the outcome ot
tho recent German note, attributes
the president's action to the success
or propaganda conducted by Count
von Bernstorff in America and what
they describe as the masterly inactivi
ty of the late British government.
Tho more general Impression is that
the agitation In America for an em
bargo on fod exports had much to do
with Mr. Wilson's action. It is also (
suggested that the president may havo
received special information from the j
Gorman government and is awaro of
the extent to which Germany is pre
pared to go toward "reparation, resti
tution and guarantees." This is the
view expressed by the Dally Chronicle.
Some discussion la also devoted to
the chances of congress passing food
export measures and possibly an em
bargo on cotton and war materials.
Question Preoldent5s Motive.
Edinburg, Dec. 22, 3:53 a. m. Presi
dent Wilson is declared to have placed
hlmsslf in a position of an interlocu
tor inside of Germany by the Scotch
man, who in an editorial commenting
on the president's note, says:
"President WilBon has hitherto ob
served a discreet reticence, which he
maintained when the small nations, he
is now so concerned about, were suf
fering unparalleled wjxmg. What mo
tive can havo prompted him to throw
aside that peculiarly prudent reserve
just at a moment when his action was
most likely to be misunderstood? It
is strange that no one among his coun
sellors had wit to see that Intervene
tion at this juncture, immediately fol
lowing the maneuvers of Berlin and
before the entente powers, had timo
to deal formally with that movement,
runs the extreme risk of being made
construed.
Action Unintelligible.
"His explanation on this point
makes his action still more unintelligi
ble. If ho brooded over his conception
so long in silence, what reason can
have impelled him to become suddenly
RISE OF OTVELLE
SMASHES FRENCH
General Robert Nivelle.
General Robert Nivelle's elevation
to the post formerly held by General
Joffre indicates the strenuous meth
ods of Briand's new ministry to in
ject new blood into the conductors of
the war.
communicative, just at a moment
when his perception of the proprieties
makes him uneasy and .distrustful?
It is not surprising that he feels em
I barrassed, for he acted so that he
become virtually an Interlocutor, on
the side of Germany. Why did he not
wait for the entente's rQply to Ger
many? Why did he step into the ring
with proposals which, whatever his
intention, must present themselves to
the allies as directing the course
which, in his Judgment, they should
take."
Globe Satirizes Wilson.
London, Dec. 28, 12:20 p. m. The
Globe today gives a secondary place
to its comment upon President Wil
, son's note which is made in a satirical
I vein under the heading of: "What
is the matter with him "
"We sincerely hope President Wil
son is not unwell," says tho Globe.
"Yet we find ourselves gravely doubt
ful as to his physical well being."
The newspaper proceeds to ask if
the president has never heard of what
the Germans did in Belgium and Ser
bia and confesses that it finds itself
unable to believe that he knows these
i things when he "describes the Cen
tral Powers as desirous of securing
small states against aggression.
jv The high cost of living is said
'to be hitting the average American
citizen very hard indeed which account
in some measure for the milk ot
human kindness in the presidential
cocoanut."
Note a "Christmas Bombshell."
The Star in its comment, says that
President Wilson nolo is a "Christ
mas bombshell." It somes as a com
plete surprise to us. 'JLet us say
at once that the allies in goneral and
Great Britain, in particular, ought to
treat it with the niosjt sympathetic
respect and give it most friendly, most
careful consideration.
Wilson a Great President.
"Mr. Wilson is one of the greatest
presidents of one of the greatest na
tions of tho world. He stands for the
things that we, as a nation believe In.
His ideals are our Ideals. We gladly
give his words tho hearing due a
friend speaking in behalf of friends.
We refuse to question his sincerity, or
his single-mindedness. The
spirit df his Christmas soundings is
the right spirit. It Is a spirit which
we believe animates the British poo
plo and their allies. They are not
afraid of soundings.
"There could be no worse mistake
Vion in fViInl.- Air IVHsnT) IS doinc
to the allies what President Lincoln
dreaded the European powers would
do during his fight for tho Union.
We did not ask President Lin
coln to save Lancashire at the ex
pense of American liberty and we
are confident Mr. Wilson will not ask
us to sacrifice our liberty in order to
mitigate the hardships which the war
Inflicts upon Americans."
Objects of Belligerents Not Same.
As to tho question of the objects
of the belligerents being virtually the
same, the Star, in its allusion to
President Wilson's words in this case
says:
"This is an astounding statement,
which we cannot, with the best will in
the world, reconcile with the facts."
Sharp Delivers Note.
Paris, Dec. 22'. 3 p. m. William
Graves Sharp, the American ambas
sador to France, delivered personally
to Premier Briand botween 7 o'clock
and 8 o'clock last night, Secretary of
State Lansing's note to the "belliger
ent nations. Paris newspapers this
evening print the note textually.
British Forces Open
New Offensive on the !
Tigris and in Egypt i
; f i' i
Caoture El Arish and Make Elaborate Plans for
Protecting Canal Region Long Delayed March I
Toward Bagdad May Be Resumed Paris ;
Reports Intense Artillery Duel North of
Monastir and Lively Cannonading . , . j
North of Verdun.
i i. i
j
Paris-, Dec. 22, 5 a. m. The German submarine U-45 j
has been sunk by destroyers according to a Nantes' dispatch. fl
The U-45 recently sank steamers off St. Nazaire. ! jj
While winter weather is causing
j military operations on most of the
fighting fronts to lack features of in
terest, considerable activity is devel
oping in sectors far enough south to
admit of energetic campaigning.
On the Tigris the British, after a
long period of quiet, have recently
pushed forward close to Kut-El-Amara
on the south and are continuing to at
tack the Turkish forces in that re
gion, evidently in the hope of resum
ing their long delayed march toward
Bagdad.
Now another field of activity is de
manding attention with today's an
nouncement from London that British
forces have captured El Arish in
Egypt on the Mediterranean, 90 miles
east of the Suez canal.
English Make Elaborate Plans.
Little has been heard from the
Egyptian operations for some time
but the British are known to have
been making somewhat elaborate
preparations to protect the canal re
gion from further incursions such as
that of last summer and their defen
sive lines have been pushed far out
on the Sinai peninsula. Apparently
there has been a recent effort still
further to extend the defensive zone,
of which the capture of El Arish con
stitutes an important development.
The taking of El Arish establishes
the British front at this point well
toward the border of Palestine and
marks the farthest eastward penetra
tion by British forces in this area
since the Turkish raids began.
El Arish has been the object pre
viously of attacks by British aviators
and warships and last May a combin
ed naval and air raid on the place
was reported to have destroyed the
fortifications.
On the Franco-Belgian front the ar
tillery is the only arm of the serv
ice that is displaying activity of mo
ment and even the bombardments,
such as those reported in the Som
me and Verdun regions, are not of
pronounced intensity.
British Capture EI Arish.
London. Dec 22. El Arish, 90
miles east of the Suez, canal, was cap
tured yesterday by the British.
El Arish is a fortified town of
Egypt on the Mediterranean, near the
frontier of Palestine. It is a town of
less than 20,000 population. In terri
tory which has been held by the
Turks since the time of their inva
sion of Egypt and unsuccessful attack
on the Suez canal.
British Ship Sunk.
London, Dec. 22, 12:55 a. m.
Lloyd's report tho sinking of the Brit
ish steamship Itonus.
Tho Itonus 5.340 tons gross, was
owned in Melbourne. She was in the
service of the British government.
Cannonading North of Verdun.
Paris, Dec. 22. Noom There was
lively cannonading in the region of
Louvemont, north of Verdun, during
last night, says the war office in to
day's bulletin on the progress of mili
tary operations on the French front
Fierce Artillery Duel.
Paris, Dec. 22. Noon. An artillory
duel of great Intensity took place
north of Monastir on Thursday, the
war office announced in today's state
ment regarding operations on the Mac
edonian front. Along the easterly end
of the lino on tho Struma front, en
counters between patrols occurred.
Russian Troops Retiring.
Petrograd, Dec. 22. Via London, 3
p. m. (British Admiralty via Wire
less Pres.) Russian troops in the
npthern part of tho Rumanian prov
ince of Dobrudja, having Deen attack
ed yesterday along the whole front
by superior numerical Teutonic forceB,
says tho Russian official statement
issued today, havo begun a further
retirement to the northward.
vo
UNHINDERED PASSAGE.
Washington, Dec. 21. France, as
well as Great Britain, now has in
structed her naval commanders to
give unhindered passage through the
blockade lines to Count TarnowskI,
the newlv appointed minister to the
United States from Austria-Hungary,,
CHRISTMAS TREE ' I
FORJOLDIERS j
Greatest Celebration Ameri- ,1
can Army Has Ever Held i l
Outside United States. 1 1
AT PERSHING CAMP l
Thousands of Presents Sent to I
"Boys" in Mexico Great , I
Preparations Made.
Field Headquarters, Mexico, Dec. H
22 Except for decorating the great il
Christmas tree, preparations have
been completed here and the program H
settled for the greatest Christmas jH
celebration the American army has H
ever held outside of the United
States. Organizations will be relieved H
from all except necessary work begin- H
nlng with Saturday, so that the ex- H
pedition will have three days of free-
dom from duties. 0 H
Thousands of presents from Red
Cross and anonymous senders have H
arrived and it is expected that no n
soldier in the expedition will be over- H
looked at the distribution of gifts on H
Christmas night. Details have been i!H
chosen from various regiments to dec- jM
orate the Christmas tree and twenty-
four members of the Twenty-fourth H
Infantry have been assigned to the
task of barbecuing two beeves. A
chorus of four hundred, which will
sing carols and patriotic songs, is re-
rehearsing daily. jH
Tho pine tree that will be illuminat- Jl
ed for tho celebration is already in
place and with the flag pole at Its fl
top, will extend eighty-five feet-nto mm
the air. The tree was brought thirty- jH
five miles from a virgin forest west ;1JH
of the camp by motor trucks eighteen mm
of which were used to carry Christ
mas greens to camp.
MEMBER OF HOUSE 1
OF COMMONS DIES I
London, Dec 22, 12:27 p. m. James lmm
J. O'Kelly, Nationalist member of the lH
house of commons, died in London
this morning. jM
Mr. O'Kelly, a member of the house
of commons since 1895, was widely
known for his adventurous career. He
was one of Parnell's earliest recruits
in parliament and went through the iiiH
ritual of suspension and removal from
the house which marked the early iH
'SO's. He was later re-elected and
while still a member of par- I tH
liament he accepted a commission to jH
go up the Nile during the Sudan cam- jlmM
paign and interview tho Mahdi, but I jH
Lord Kitchener barred that enterprise.
Mr. O'Kelly fought in the Franco- jH
Prussian war, having a commission
in the French army. His passion for
adventure also found an outlet in the JH
United States army during the In- jH
dlan campaigners of a generation ago. j jH
At the lime of the Cuban revolt H
against Spanish rule he served as a j jH
correspondent for Now York and Lon- ; jH
don newspapers and distinguished ' jH
himself particularly by his daring : fH
when, contrary to the orders of the
Spanish captian-general at Havana, he
mado his way to tho rebel lines and
sent a series of dispatches concern- .1
Ing the revolution. '
Mr. O'Kelly was born in Roscom- jH
mon, Ireland, and was in his Bevonty- 1
first year. .-j&j 1
