THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Rleservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VII. NO. 34. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, DECEMBER 22, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
BRITONS OPPOSE
PEACE PROPOSAL
London, Dec. 18.-Indefinably, but
obviously, the general attitude in
Great Britain toward the German
peace proposals has hardened enor
mously.
The average man, certain of the
benefits of peace, and somewhat car
ried away with the offer at first, now
seems to have made up his mind defi
nitely.
Leaving out of consideration the
opinions of the officials and the gov
erning classes, who are determined
to carry on the war to the utmost
end, the sentiment of the general type
of Englishman seems to have found
itself.
It is safe to say that except for the
most extreme pacifists there is no
idea of peace at the present moment.
The British public has made up its
mind to fight on, and not to accept
any peace proposal except one com
pletely satisfactory to themselves.
From reliable sources it is learned
that Premier Lloyd-George, in his
speech in the house of commons may
recapitulate the allies' object in the
war, but will declare that he is sup
ported by 99 per cent of the popula
tion in stating that there can be no
thought of peace until those objectives
are obtainable.
In the unlikely event of the com
mons disagreeing with him in the
slightest degree he will advise the
king to dissolve parliament and take
the opinion of the court at a general
election.
Few here doubt that such an ap
peal, with the premier himself making
the whirlwind campaign on the stump
which he threatened when fighting
to overthrow the Asquith ministry,
would result in the return of a par
liament which could be depended on
eo support him to the utmost.
DEFINITE TERMS MIGHT
TIE HANDS OF TEUTONS
Berlin, Dec. 18.-"Some sections of
the foreign press and especially news
papers in hostile countries," say the
Overseas News agency, "having de
clared that the Central powers ought
to have added definite peace proposals
to their peace offer, the Overseas
agency asked a distinguished German
diplomatist for his opinion on this
point.
"His answer was: 'The German note
to the entente governments contains
a very definite communication as to
the spirit of peace conditions, which
the central powers would bring to the
proposed negotiations.
"'To go further in outlining the
peace conditions would have meant
a handicap to the Central powers in
case (contrary to what some newspa
pers in hostile countries have declar
ed), the hostile governments decided
to enter into negotiations of discus
sions.
"'It is a self-evident truth that no
body could come to such negotiations
with tied hands while the hands of
the other party were completely
free.' "
IS AGAINST FOOD EMBARGO
Washington, Dec. 18.-Despite many
telegrams, letters and petitions ask
ing the house rules committee to pro
vide for legislation placing an embar
go on food stuffs, Chairman Henry of
the comrnitiee announced that he Tvai
''squar i against any kind o` an em
bargo on food and ,all do everything
in my power to prevent sach l ;icla"
tion."
XMr. Henry explained that he..favor
ed cmbargo on shipmenLs of arms and
ammunition "for the purpose of de
stroying millions of people in Earope."
Trevina at El Paso.
El Paso, Tex., Dec. 18.-General
Trevino, former commander of the
Carranza forces in Chihuahua City,
arrived by special train and left for
Eagle Pass on his way to Queretaro.
He said he had no intention he would
be sent on a mission abroad. His
brother, Francisco Trevino, late civil
governor of Chihuahua and several
staff officers accompanied him,
Carmen Vote to Continue Strike.
New York, Dec. 18.-Unionized car
men, who went on strike in this city
and parts of Westchester county last
September, voted to continue the
strike, it was announced by officers
of the Amalgamated Association of
Street and Electric Railway Emplayes.
Up Goes Necessities
"Ye gods and little fishes, this high
cost of living is getting to be the lim
it," said the bellboy to another in the
lobby of a hotel, as he watched the girl
behind the cigar stand tack up a notice
which said that, beginning on that
date, the price of cigarets would be in
creased 5 cents a package.
DRASTIC LID LAW SOUGHT
Chicago, Dec. 18.-An amendment
to the state Sunday closing law will
be introduced at the next session of
the Illinois legislature at the direc.
tion of Mayor Thompson of Chicago.
The amendment would make violation
of the law a penitentiary offense. At
present the maximum penalty is a fine
of 8200.
CHEYENNE HOTEL FIRE FATAL
Cheyenne, Wyo., Dec. 18.-One life
is known to have been lost, a child
was seriously burned and four per
sons are missing in a hotel fire here.
Roy A. White of Baylis, Cal., was
electrocuted when he leaped from a
third-story window and caught in a
tangle of electric wires. His wife and
three children are missing. A fourth
child, nine months old, was rescued
burned seriously.
About twenty guests were in the
building and, with the exception of
the missing members of the White
family, all were thought to have been
rescued.
SYLA'S NEW FLOUR MILL
ABOUT READY TO GRIND
While little has been heard of the
flour mill being erected by Dan Syla
on his farm just west of the Horte
store, yet rapid progress has been
made and the building is now ready for
the installation of the machinery. The
machinery and fixtures are on the
ground, awaiting the arrival of a mill
wright to put them in place and start
the wheels going.
Mr. Sila is an experienced miller
himself and with a well equipped mill
and the best wheat in the world to
grind, he will unquestionably turn out
an article second to none in this coun
try. The mill, while only a fifteen
barrel capacity, is equipped with mod
ern machinery and the quality of the
flour will not be lessened by reason of
the size of the output.
A flour mill at that place will be a
great benefit to the entire valley.
Farmers will no longer be compelled to
sell their wheat to buyers, pay the
freight on the wheat to Minneapolis
andfreight on the flour back to their
homes. A liberal toll to the miller will
pay for the grinding of their wheat,
and in addition the shorts and bran
will be available to supply the ever in
creasing demand for this class of stock
food. Mr. Sila hopes to have the new
mill in operation shortly after the new
year.
FIRS1 MONTANA CITIZEN
DIES AT MISSOULA HOME
Last Sunday's Missoulian gives the
following account of the death of Judge
Frank H. Woody, reputed to be the
oldest pioneer citizen of the state of
Montnna at the time of his death:
Judge Frank H. Woody, "first citi
zen of Montana" and this city's first
mayor, died shortly after noon yester
day at his Missoula home, 328 West
Pine street. Death came quietly to the
aged pioneer, following an illness so
brief that Mrs. Woody and a daughter,
Flo Woody Anderson, had not time to
reach Missoula from California, whence
they were summoned at the first sign
of danger. Frank H. Woody, Jr., and
Miss Alice Woody, the two other chil
dren, were with their father when he
died.
Judge Woody had been a resident of
Montana longer than any man now liv
ing. And since his coming in October.
1856, he has constantly been a leader
in the state. He was one of Missoula
county's first clerks; was the first
mayor of Missoula; served for many
years as judge of the Fourth judicial
diftrict; was first editor of the Mis
soullan. He was elected, too, to one
of the state's earliest legislative as
semblies, that of 1869, though he did
not serve. In his later years he was
an active and able practitioner of law
and, naturally, prominent in the So
ciety of Montana Pioneers.
Judge Woody came to Montana in
August, 1856, and was 88 years old at
the time of his death. Funeral ser
vices were held Monday under the
auspices of the 1\fasonie and Odd Fel
lows lodges of Missoula.
Bring your chickens to H. M. Geh
lert. 34
OURAL DISTRICTS
NOT REPRESENTED
That other rural districts in the state
of Montana are not satisfied with the
treatment received from the larger
cities of the state, in the matter of
representation in political offices, is
shown by the following article from
the Cascade Courier. Cascade is a
thriving town in Cascade county, with
an exceptionally rich and growing
country district tributaxy to it. Great
Falls is the county seat and that city
appears to be even more hoggish than
the city of Missoula, if that is pos
sible. The Courier says:
Several of the leading newspapers
of the state are advocating a re-dis
tricting of Montana into congressional
districts, This surely should be done.
At the November election both of our
representatives in congress were elected
from the same city and in the extreme
corner of the state.
At the same time, it appears to the
Courier that the legislature should de
vise new laws so that all of the state
should be represented in that body.
As it is now only the county seats
which are generally the largest towns
in the county are represented, or at
least that is the case in a majority of
the counties, Cascade county, for in
stance,, elects six representatives to
the ldgislature. Everyone of these
represnntatives are residents of Great
Falls. As a consequence the greater
area of the county is without repre
sentation whatsoever. It is not fair
to the country communities and the
laws should be righted.
The law as it now stands provides
one representative in the legislature
for every 4,500 population. According
to that Cascade county is shy about
two representatives, as the city of
Great Falls claims a population of over
25,000. But unless the present law is
changed, one or two more represeat
atives from this county will not 'help
the country outside of the county seat,
but will only give that city the privi
lege of taking care of two more office
seekers. For the last election there
were in the neighborhood of 12,000
registered voters in this county. Great
Falls alone had close to 7,000 of the
voters, so it can readily be seen why
the country districts cannot be repre
sented in the state legislature.
In the election of county commis
sioners, the laws are just as unfair as
for representation in the legislature.
This should also be made more equit
able for the same reasons-the larger
cities always have the board of com
missioners and the country districts
cannot secure what is their just right.
In Cascade county all three members
of the board are elected from Great
Falls. The same in Lewis & Clark,
and we suppose in Silver Bow, Beaver
head, Fergus, Hill, Valley and other
counties that have large cities and the
controlling vote of their respective
counties.
It is not fair, The laws should be
changed and the state re-districted for
congressmen , and the counties should
be made into legislative and commis
sioner districts.
The country press might take this
matter up and possibly enough support
may be secured from members of the
legislature to have these laws shaped
so that all of the people of the state
may be represented in congress, in the
state legislature and on the boards of
county commissioners.
CONGRESSIONAL DRUNKS
ARE TO BE PROTECTED
By a margin of one vote the Shep
pard bill to prohibit the manufacture
and sale of intoxicating liquors in the
District of Columbia, was put into first
place on the senate calendar Saturday,
to be taken up this week and debated
until it is disposed of or replaced by
affirmative action. Senator Townsend
of Michigan sought to keep the volun
teer officers' retirement bill before the
senate as unfinished business, but a
motion to substitute the Sheppard bill
prevailed 34 to 33.
Senator Martine of New Jersey op
posing the bill said the saloon should
not be abandoned until some other
form of club for the poor man could be
established. He declared that resi
dents of prohibition states are the
heaviest consumers of patent medicines
composed chiefly of cheap alcoholic
liquors. He insisted that prohibition
does not prohibit. The prohibition
state of Maine, he said, with a popu
lation of less than 2,000,000 has more
drunkenness than the whole of Italy
with a population of 30,000,000 and no
prohibition laws.
RED TAPE KEEPS
LAND UNTAXABLE
W. H. Howe, writing in the Kalis
pell Bee, says:
"There are dozens and dozens of
them," said Receiver 0. E. Thomas of
the Kalispell U. S. Land Office last
Friday when asked by a newspaper
man as to how many homesteaders In
the Flathead have had their land appli
cations suspended or rejected,
This is a critical condition to have in
a county like Flathead, where the
bonded indebtedness is up to the limit
and where our tax burdens are none too
light, and where this young county
needs all its taxable support possible
and where its settlers on raw land
should be encouraged instead of dis
couraged by the heartless, endless sys
tem of government red tape action.
The fact is there are vacant lands
on the former Flathead reservation
that good, bona fide settlers have ap
plied for for the past five years, and
these home builders have been denied
the right to enter these idle lands.
Some of these acres have a few scat
tering trees on but not of first merch
antable grade. These lands, if granted
to these settlers four and five years
ago, would by this time have been on
our tax rolls and a real benefit to our
county.
The county commissioners have been
appealed to to assist in getting prompt
and favorable action. P. N. Bernard
has often been approached to help
hasten the adjudication of these worthy
homesteaders of our county. Even
Senator Henry L. Myers has been be
sieged with petitions and writes, "I
appreciate fully the grief and suspense
which the settlers upon the Flathead
have been compelled to undergo with
respect to their homestead filings.
I have earnestly urged the department
on numerous occasions to give them
relief."
Two years ago the Indian depart
ment sent Rev. W. H. Ketcham and
Assistant F. H. Abbott from Washing
ton here to inspect the claims of these
settlers and their report was true and
honest in *every way and is a public
document of some 100 pages.
As yet, nothing has been done to re
lieve the heart sickening suspense.
The sad feature of it is that some
later settlers have filed for lands since
these first rejected settlers and have
secured their lands. Others have had
to abandon their land selections and
look elsewhere.
One poor man asked in 1910 for 160
acres of cheap grazing land above Poi
son and the land office granted him
40 bcres of it at $1.25 per acre. One
of the other 40-acre tracts had 23
thousand feet of timber which the In
dian department appraised at $5.00 per
thousand and their own officer two
years ago said $3.00 per thousand was
all it was worth.
No reduction has been made on the
protest yet. The other 40-acre tract
of this man's selection was $1.25 per
acre land which he offered to pay, but
they would not accept it. Last fall
the Indian department came around
and reappraised this stony, hog-back
tract suited to grazing only, no water,
not a tree on it, not even plowable, at
$5.00 per acre, after this settler had
been applying for it at the $1.25 rate
for the last four years.
The settlers on the reservation have
clearly found out that anything less
than a 160 or 320 acre farm in this
semi-arid country is an unprofitable
undertaking and hence they have tried
to complete their homesteads by apply
ing for the vacant, idle acres, nearby,
or adjoining their present 40's or 80's.
These tracts usually border the moun
tains and have some scattering timber
of second quality which the government
so far demands must be sold and re
moved before applications will be con
considered.
The price for this timber is from
$3.00, $3.50 to $5.00 per thousand feet
and settlers cannot afford to log it at
additional expense of $3.00 per thous
and feet and keep out of the sheriff's
hands.
The national forests timber is better
quality, more accessible and sells for
$1.25 to $1.75 per thousand feet, all of
which shows the holdup game the In
dian department is playing in the Flat
head country. A law was passed last
May authorizing the Secretary of the
Interior to let settlers in the Flathead
country have lands suited to horticul
ture or agriculture having timber
thereon, by paying timber appraisal in
addition to the land, but as yet no
relief has come from that law.
Likewise, the people who squatted
on lots in the townsite of Big Arm in
1910, waited until August, 191 before
the federal system got arouind to sell
them about 150 out of 800 lots. Since
that time all efforts to obtain a public
square for school house purposes have
utterly failed. The school trustees,
Messrs. J. 0. Rude, F. L. Null and
John Baumert felt that the school funds
were too precious to spend longer in
renting a school" building, so they
started to build one. This building is
nearly completed now and is made so
it can be moved to other lots whenever
a privilege to buy can be obtained
from the government. There are two
vacant public squares reserved in the
townsite, and if not for public school,
what better use could be made of them?
O40-ACRE HOMESTEADS
ARE MADE AVAILABLE
All the disputed points in the Ferris
640-acre homestead bill were smoothed
out at a conference between the sen
ate and house last Saturday and the
bill passed, leaving it to the president
to sign.
Under it the lands will be open to
any one upon entry and three years'
improvement and residence without
any money payment whatever except
the regulation filing fees. Lands sub
ject to entry under the bill will be
designated by the secretary of the in
terior, but none of the land on the res
ervation can be taken under it. It will
apply principally to the country east
of the Rocky mountains.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
HOLDS BIG MEETING
'An enthusiastic meeting of the Ro
nan Commercial club was held Tues
day night in Scearce hall. The attend
ance was large and every one present
appeared to be imbued with the spirit
of progressiveness and a whole hearted
desire to get solidly together and work
for all things that will tend to advance
the interests of the town and commun
ity. Two or three farmers were pres
ent. Better than none at all, but not
enoiagh. Their co-operation is earnestly
desired and it is to their individual in
terests as much as to those living in
town that the club be made a success.
Its accomplisqments will inure to their
benefit as directly as to those living in
town and it is earnestly hoped that the
next meeting will see a good represen
tation from the farms.
Outside of the election of officers and
laying preliminary plans for future
work, very little was done. Officers
elected were: John N. Bailey, presi
dent; Stanley Scearce, vice-president;
Lloyd I. Wallace, secretary; Dr. W.
R. Sheen, treasurer. A committee
consisting of John P. Swee, Iver M.
Brandjord and E. H. Rathbone 'was;
appointed to draft a new constitution
and by-laws, to report at the next
meeting. It was practically decided
that the new by-laws will provide for
an executive committee of from seven
to nine members, who will be given
ample authority to act on all club mat
ters arising between regular meetings.
Other important committees will, be
provided for and upon the members of
each co'mmittee will rest the burden of
the success of such business as may be
referred to it.
After a two hours session the meet
ing adjourned to meet again on Thurs
day niget, January 4. Remember the
date and be sure to attend.
PRIMARY IS EXPENSIVE
TO MONTANA TAXPAYERS
That the primary elections in Mon
tana this year cost the taxpayers a lot
of money is shown by figures recently
compiled by William Muth of Helena,
in conformity with a resolution adopt
ed by the Society of the Framers of the
Constitution of Montana at its recent
meeting in Helena. These figures
complete as to the general state and
county primary held in August, ex
cept as to three counties, and the pres
idential primary also complete, held in
June, show that the total expense to
the counties of the two was $236,688.90.
The presidential primary, with 21
counties reporting and averaging up
the others, cost $108,984.15. The gen
eral primary, 38 counties reporting,
cost $127,704.75. These figures do not
include what the state spent in the
same behalf.
I have money to loan on patented
lands. Low rate of interest.-John N.
Bailey. 32-35p
SAYS ADAMSON
ACT MUST STAND
Washington, Dec. 18.-Reports that
railroads and brotherhood heads in
peace conferences have planned to
propose the repeal of the Adamson
act and the substitution of a working
agreement of their own making for
it, aroused Representative Adamson,
author of the law, to declare that con
gress would "spank both sides to the
controversy if necessary."
Mr. Adamson, who is the house rep
resentative of President Wilson in
railway legislation matters, is willing
to co-operate in any plan employes
and employers may evolve for the in
terpretation of his law as applied to
working conditions, but will vigorous
ly oppose repeal of it, as he thinks
will the majorities of both houses.
"Congress will not agree to any re
peal of the Adamson law," he said.
Passed in Good Faith.
"The measure was passed in good
faith and it is a constitutional enact
ment regulating hours of labor and
not wages.
"I hope that the negotiations be
tween the railroads and their em
ployes will result in an agreement
which will not make further legisla
tion necessary, but congress will see
that the public gets a fair deal. If
it becomes necessary to spank both
sides, we'll spank them, though I hope
that won't be necessary."
Neither labor nor congressional
leaders have official reports as to just
what the railway conferees have taken
up.
Belief is current, however, that the
foremost feature of the final agree
ment will be an interpretation of the
Adamson law so satisfactory to both
sides that the suit to test the act's
constitutionality, now before the Su
preme court, may be withdrawn.
A plan for investigation of the
threatened strike also is expected to
result from the deliberations.
TESTS SHOW RADIUM
IS NOT CANCER CURE
New York, Dec. 18.-After exhaus
tive tests upon rats, mice and guinea
pigs, the use of radium as a cure for
cancer and tumors has been found to
be a failure, according to the annual
report of Dr. Francis Carter Wood,
head of the Crocker Cancer Research
fund of Columbia university, made
public here.
For cases on which operation is not
possible, radium is successful as a
palliative only, the report states.
"It is unquestionably possible to
prolong life in a few instances," Dr.
Wood says, "and to make the patients
more comfortable by the judicious and
intelligent employment of large quan
tities of radium.
"On the other hand it is equally
certain that the use of small quanti
ties, say 20 to 50 milligrams of radium
element, often results in a rapid ex
tension of the tumor, so that the pa
tient's condition is worse than if he
had been left alone."
YOUTHS ASK EARLY DEATH
Will Be Executed in Sing Sing for
Murder This Week.
Sing Sing, N. Y., Dec. 18.-Two
youths sentenced to be executed at
Sing Sing prison for murder this week
voluntarily have shortened their lives
by at least three days so that the
grief of their relatives may be dulled
as much as possible by Christmas.
They are Stanley J. Millstein, nine
teen years old, and Charles Kumrow,
twenty. They were to have been sent
to the electric chair Friday.
The young men sought and were
granted permission to be executed
Tuesday.
DRUG GUARDS AND LOOT SAFE
Yeggmen Get $1,000 in Gold Raid on
Chicago Store.
Chicago, Dec. 18.-Five safeblowers
entered a State street store before
daylight, chloroformed two watchmen;
blew open the safe and escaped with
$1,000.. They worked four hour. be
fore getting their booty together and
left long after daylight, after bigning
the watchmen to chairs.
Army Surgeon Is Dead.
San Francisco, Dec. 18.-Colonel
Henry S. T. Harris, chief surgeon of
the Western division of the United
States army, was found dead here at
the club at which he lived, The cause
of death was believed to have been
apoplexy. He was a native of Vir
ginia, fifty-three years old.
