lfHE SUH WISHES' NOT ONLY ITS FRIENDS AND PATRONS, BUT EVERYONE, A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR
CONSDLrriiE LABEL
TIh InlH-l on llio first imge of 1 lit
em or itHiu tin" wrapper show tho
jitelo which Milwcrlptlon N paid nml
Hof IIM'lf l IVCt'lpt lO lllC KIlllscrllKT.
If (lie label shows you are In urtvnr
IV him lll appreciate u remittance.
Coder (lit Mwtnl laws Tim Suit cannot
y .cut longer tlmii n certain lime, to
0? who nrc Ih'IiIikI. Cmult the
bIkI on (IiIh copy of The Hun.
OFFER OP CENTRAL1
EMPIRES FALLS
FLRTLY
M.IAI KPCIINS I'llXCi: PHO-
iosi:i I1Y (ii:uman.
MojiM'eorRp, Now Prtmlcr, Aivepts
lteonlhllll) Tor Prolonging tin
KiinH'nn War nml Portlier Dcclarr
the Allien Ait .tuMltliit Itiidlnit
I llllllRtM Soon til He Inlnxluii-il
LONDON. Ore 19 Tell Us olir
i niw'
(live UN guiintnlcoK for the pome
Kuropo from the swashbuckling of
l russlun militarism guarantee surer
than I hone )ou have hroki n
Thou, mid not until then, will the
Hit trout with )ou In regard to
ri'llntr tln wart"
deduced to Itn mini nml siilwlancc.
ii.it In the nuswrr of (Ironl HrltHln
nil In r nllles in the tentriil powers'
i roHimil to enter Into negotiation for
nence It was K I vii n hy Ltojd-dcorgt
i hi afternoon In tin liuus of mm-
'lloll
Am for tin- nlllm' terms the nl
rum on whli h the) Mill give initio
i-gntiutlnn n thought the premier
t Hi' in down thus
Hi iiiiiikIn I'or Itrpniiilloii.
ilhutil reparation wm c l tin
,..i,.. Tin MUM Insist Unit tin
nly i ml of tin WHr iniiiit lie complct--uarmilco
ugaliist Prussian mllll.ir
ni disturbing thi' peace of I'lirnpi '
Ami with ii ringing miti- of Mttrr
run) hi' added ' All tin- ntitriiKi s n
.nil ami sea ihiiihiI tie llipililntril bv
few pimm phrases nbout hnninnlt)
At thi' plnnutlo of IiIm political in
itr, In his debut lief ure lhi house i f
ir hum lit iik pr nlr anil Mrlunl w .
I'irtator of (Ireul llrllaln l.lo)d
tlenrg dollvind hi long expectoii
i.lilriM iM'fori' h Imust thronged to
IN mpm.lt anil unihl diop, almost
reverential ellonre, w lilt Ii vas, how-
or, broken rt'peutrdi) hy thunderous
hei-rlng
Tin substanie of hit declaration, hr
unnumed, would be cr nl to OmuftUt
ltlilii h tvw dus. It was not mil)
I.UKlnmrN nnswir, tlu prlinu minister
. mphusliod It twin Kugluml's "clear
nil deflnltu Niippnrt" to thi Identical
latcments ulreuil) given h HiimIh
ml Prunoe
It was not n fhvlfooled, dcfl.inl re-
ttlun or peuie. MiU remarkable
.mmhIi hy KiiKliimrn "HtroiiKHt mun.'
i tilth thi worhl huil ituullril hrmtli-
Kfly for flKht nuxlmm ilii)t.
I'riTiil Olfrr Iti'Jii Itil.
It huh mi uuipuilUli'il. Htornriil. !
iuiwt rimlfiiiptiimiH ri'Jii lion of the
ntrnl powi-rn' proffrr hh It no.v
tumln. I'or UiIh proffiT In IIh prwmnt
hni U n "iiiMiM', nlih Iho topi'V I'lul
nt flrriimtu'H Imml' thim l.loil.
(IfiirKi Irncrllinl It nml tin iiIIIik
In nut iruM' tn put their In-uiU In
II
lii:iLM.NV I.KXH ir hi: kmvn
THAT I'llU'i: WIIUUI SV IT lllllt
Ui'rmauy ami lur nlllM, Aumrla
lluuicnry, Turkey nml HulKiirlii, Knuk.
njt thrnuuh I'hnnci'llor Von Until-utunn-llollwrk'.
In tho rclrlmtnu Tuc.
I.ty of hint week, notlflt'il lhi world
that llm tentnil power' ulilu of thi
Krvati-nt war In thu hlnlory of thi
.oriel U renily nml wouhl Im Klutl to
nttr Into pfiuo nqitotliitlonn. At thi
Mino limn nnnouncemrnl wim nmili
that Oormnny uml her iiIIIch itn ri'ml
tn so riKht ahem! flKhtlnir In vmm tho
allien ilu not . fit to talk pesici
rrnm. N'oton to tho ulxun nffitt wurn
iiit to thu KowrnincintH f " I'nHiJ
Htnlen. Kpalu und HIUrlind nml tlu
opi- with u requtwt thut thp nntloim
t war iiKnlUHt tho tontnil powith Iw
uiiirifd
flpraklnic Kmrull. Orriiuiny pro
imihoi to rontore uoM'rnmi'Utnl timill-
linn In Kuropo in pimtUsilly whm
ihoy with heforo thi- WHr, nml thw
hamcllor di-clunil thu pwirt pro
i "sit wiih iimdti In hohulf of hutniuil
i, an (liTinunj nml thu ullh urt- pxr-
.itl tonflili'iit th iiinnot lm im
iiii ri'd
IliittlUli hviilliiirnt OpHif
I lrl ilUpiitcliKM roporUd tln llrl-
' h k'uwrninwit Uet'llnlnK to tnk iiu
'union until moro fully comiTHHiit
mIIi ilirmn tiropowil, hut private
nmoim i lout' to tho Kirninnl llii'ii
poke openl UKulimt peuvo mi nil)-
tiinfc llku the trmn prop'""''' l,lr-
m.w Theno porHoim duulanwl that
hi IhihU of pt'ttoo mUHt ho nuch Kuar-
ntei'M iiBuliut Herman mllltiirlmn uh
ill niako piiMlhle tho inuHtorlnK out
i r tho ulllfd urmleH und thu prnitlcwl
hollllon of military expense, which
the world umleMtandH U tho Kreatiwt
t ndency toduy to hankruprlill Kreat
liitloim.
Mr A C'onan I)ol declared tho
roponal pruponteroui and ald '"
i mil Ih "toniiclouii of 1ctor " Th
ManiulH of Londonderry nald "It l
nly a ipjentlon of tlmo and we will
vln out utmolutely" Newrpapem and
ther prTnont llrltlhern ridiculed
tho Idea uf peaco on the tentative
t rmi propoaod hy Ourmany
Oermany propoea to evacuatu Del
Klum, except Antwerp, which It want
- g I'OlilTll'AMi. .N B
Kntered n Second.CInn Matter, Juno 4, 1916. nt tho roiMotflce at t'rlte. Utah. Under tho Act of March . 1879. '1
volumeY; numhek :jiT every Friday 'decembeu 22, ioig
THE LEECH.
SALIENT POINTS OF PREMIER'S TALK
Hero arc thu salient points in thu speech of Premier
Lloyd-George rejectinK the offer of pence mndc by the
ccntnil empires:
Thu war must continue until the central empires make
reparation, until Kuarnntees are jjiven surer than those
already broken.
Thu central empires have madu no proposals of peace
.mid the allies cannot enter into neKotiations until thu en
emy offers definite terms.
There must bo jrunrantees that the Prussian military
caste will never again disturb tho peace of thu world.
Victory is certain if all the resources of the empire
arc mobilized.
National lent should he declared and all the people
should Join in sacrifices to win tho war.
Arrangements are under way for the final settlement
of thu Irish question.
Tho British people will be mobilized for national ser
vice, which will be divided into two departments, one mili
tary, tho other civil. A director of national service will
be appointed.
All the shipping of the empire will be taken under con
trol by the government.
Drastic steps in regard to excess profits, to insure '
that the wealth of the nation is at Its disposal.
Complete national control of food.
An Imperial conference to give the dominions a larger
share In the control of the war.
to kivp, und to return tho portion or
Northern Trnme now nccupltd, except
AIkucii and Uirrulne Want Turkey
to continue pomcmiliiK C'oiutiiiitlmiplo.
Would mnkii of Poland and Mthunla
Independent kliiKdonm Would uniird
to Ihilirnriu tho part of Hentu trnuth
of Nlh Would retain hucIi itonomle
iidwiiituKPM In Northtrn Kramo n
would Kunruntfe to Oerninny tertaln
tomineri'lul ndwintiiKi'H. Would mi
tontrnl MeMopotainlu "" to kIw or
man) Mild Auxtrla uu nutltl In the
Kiiir of rerun mid the Indian dean.
Minor illffi renew, to he iMttled hy
penie lonfereme
I'UK.ilDKN'r WII-SOX hl'lHSIWI-h
I'ltXCH I'AHI.KV 'IO WAIIUINd
WAHIIINOTON I) t" . Dee. 30. J
I'rwildeiit Wllmin Imn uppealed to nil
the helllKvrentn to dUviiM termn of
peuie Without itetuully propiMlin;
liHHie or nfferliiK medlutlnn, th prmtl-;
dent him nent formal notsu to tho kov
wrumetitH or all tho 'wrrrlnt; imtloim
HiiKKootlni; that an oiiny iiihjiimIoii he
iHiiiBht to cull nut from the natloiiH
now at war vuth uu aoul of their
renpiilHu ew um to the termn upon
whhh tho war mluhl ho concluded
und tho arraiiBementH whltli would
lo deemed tuitliiructory ax a ituaruut)
uKuhmt Itn renewal or the klndlhiK of
un vlmllur conflict In tho future ux
would muke It poMlhle frunkl to
oomnaru them."
Wholly without notlto and entirely
conlrar) to what udmlnlntratlon orri
clalu havo dPHtrlbod ub hU cmirse. tho
president last night dlpatthd tho
note to all tho helllRcrentu, and to all
tho neutrals for their Information.
Summarised In tho president' own
words nB tontalnod In the note, hU
attitude U as follows:
Wluit Is I'roposl.
"Tho p-esldent Is not proposing
peace, lie it not even offering medi
ation, lie Is mtroly proposhiK thut
KoundliiKH ho taken In order that wo
may lenru, the neutral natlonH with
the holllKertiiil, how near the haven
of peace may ho ror whlih all mini.
kind Ioiiks with an Intense and In
c easlliK InnKlnir. He bellows that
the spirit In whlih he speaks and the
ohJeclB whlih ho seeks will he under
Mood h nil conierued, and he con
fidently hope ror u rospniiM. which
will hrliiK u new llk'ht Into the iiffulrH
itf the world "
This latest ihtilopment In the rap
idly moluK world events towurd u
illstiiKslon or peace was not permitted
tn hiiome known until tonight, when
the notes were nil on their wu tn the
AmerliHii HinhusHudont In the helllK
ereut (upltals ami prohuhh nlreitdi III
i the hands or smne or them
COM WrSBME
.liiuien II, I'atirsou Ia'iiii'm AIkiiiI Ten
1 houxiinil OollurH,
I - "
AeeordhiK to the stutument In a
petition ror letters or administration
riled at Halt Lake Cit) luht Wednes
day In the ofrli'O or the lountj clerk,
along with tho will of James II. I'uter
son, tho former head of the Htrovoll
I'aterson llardwuro tompun). lift uu
estute of lesN thun ten thousund dot-lars.
I'aterson died In Us Angeles, Cala.,
October IB, 1016. The petition for
letters or administration wus riled by
tho widow Tho legatees named In
the will uro tho widow, rioremo O.
Patcrson, Mrs. Ilunnah Anderson or
Kiunaton. III., II. T. Ulllot or I.os An
geles and Mrs. P. It. Hhaffcr of New
Haven, Conn.
Deceased was president of the Inde
pendent Coal und Coke company with
mined at Kenllworth at the time of
his demise.
"lEsniimBAuii
Amuim-nti In Ki'tiliiiiu l.liluiillnii 1 1
IU' llr.inl At Ion.
On Tueoday last the iiih or the
ICetchum Coal compati), so fur ns the
takhiK or testimony of wltnesM Is
conremed, ngalnit I'leusant Valley
Coal tmnpany, the Denver nml I tit
(Irniule railroad nml I'lnh I'uel emu
puny was concluded at l'rlre hy Judge
Albert II. Chrlslrnson or thu Kevetith
Jtiillulnl District court. Judge Chris
teiiNou Is to hear tho nrKumeiits or
counsel at Knit Uikn City nml will
likely render Ills decision sumo time
hilwecn ChrUtmiiH nml New Yeur's.
Tho lltlgutlon begun In district court
In Kepttmher lust nml bus occupied,
ull told, per Imps u month's tlmo of thu
court. Heverul tidjounimeuts haw
been tnken III the meantime, howover
Drovi or expert witnesses from Colo
rado, Womln and Utah bum been
oiumliifd and a herd of lawyers em
pin) ni. The cost or court uml ex
pense accruing will run Into thous
ands or dollars. The 1'i'clcs Interests
or Ogdeii are wild to bo behind Ketch
urn Coal company.
Judge Chrlslenson left ror his home
at Muntl on Tuesday evening. I In lias
In the meuntlmo clean d up tho Car
bon county calendar with thu excep
tion or two cases, this und tho con
demnation suit or Curhon I'ticl com
pany agulnst Standard Coal company.
The latter will bo heard by Judga
(leorge Chrlitviison, who mines to the
beuih or the Heventh district utter the
first of tho var. He will have u tlean
slate so fur us old cases go.
It Is understood that Tronic M Al
der, stenographer, Is to remain In his
position under Judge (leorge Chris
tense n.
LOCAL ROADWORK DONE
I'xti'iit to Willi Ii Curhon nml 1'iiicry
CountlcM llnvo Pnillltil.
Moro thun one million two hundred
thoUHiind dollars vvms, spiint on statu
roads In the last tvii )ar The work
was done undei the Wpervlslon or
the sluto roud KAnmlssiyn Prom one
end or the titniV to Ii. other new
hlghwu) uml bildgeftAvere built, new
romlH were surVcjf und old rouds
repulred Kvery county shared ullke.
sms the annual report or K. It. Mor
gun, state roud commissioner
Orudlng In Curium county was com
pleted on two mill's or road from the
Soldier Creek highway running north
oust from Price Six miles or road
'between Helper uml Price wore Mir
'fueed; four miles on the roud extend
ing from Price southward tn the I'm
i cry county ' -ve. along with three
I stretches of ouu mile ouch on the road
between Price and Hunnyslde One
'sttel bridge, with u spun or seventy
five firt, wus built, also one log
bridge; three corrugated Iron culverts,
three stone culverlH and 'our wooden
I culverts.
arndlng In Kmery county was done
on about one mile through tho town
Ior Claw son, and on ubout forty miles
of road from Green Illver to Mounds,
Nino wooden bridges were built, seven
corrugated Iron culverts were Install
ed, also fourteen of wood nml two of
stone.
ir tho head or cauliflower seems too
small mix with it a little bit of the
firm white parts of the cabbage.
PROPOSITION GOING
TO VOTE OF PEOPLE I
Pare mountain Spring Water For Price If IH
. the Citizens Here So Decide By M
Their Ballots. H
ELECTION TO B E GALLED Af AN EARLY DATE H
Prlie tltUtns an- being pland in n
position vvht rch) they may have bet
ter water, pure mountain spring vvn-111-
from the vicinity or Collon, If the
so elect at nil etei lion soon to he held
nnd due notice vf which Is In be given
h the cit) council at Home date In the
Immediate future Tuesday evening
Inst nn adjourned semloii of the coun
cil wns held at the residence of A. W.
Itorsle), mayor, at which all the illy
nhtertnen were promt.
At this mietlng the iiintnii I of A,
C Kills. Jr. or Halt l-uke ('It) was
prisinted nml gone Into In every
pha! by Ihe itmior ami tnumllineii.
Th. i mitt-net In the form or mi nr-
ilinime Is now being gone over hy
I I Woods. rll nltorno), to see
u tin r there are HU) f lawn, and an
1 Mil lis Judge Woods puwee opinion
n It the ordlnuiRe Is to he Ktwied,
publlslieit In the two local newsimpers
,111111 suhmltled In the votem ror Hitop-
i turn or their rejection
C II (IIIiIm or Halt l.nke City waa
preent nt the meeting, representing
Hills und his nssm luten In the ileal.
In unswer tn lmiufrlc from council
mi ii Ihe gentleman stated llutt It Is
proposed to furnish Prlcn with three
hundred thousand gallons of water
every day or the )enr. The lompuU
Hull Is imide on a hundred und fifty
t'ulloiis of water dally ror every reil
dent or the i Ity. This iiiinntlty Is suf
ficient for twenty-rive hundred "t
morn people.
Tho lirn or the cotitrnct Is twent)
flvo yearn. Alderman Ixiofhourow ex
presstd hliuielf ns fitvorlng n Iiiumi
In the (nnlriiut wlureh) tho illy be
prlvllegeil tu purchase the plant ut too
end or the contract with Kills and his
ussoclutes. (Ilbhs answered this hy
stating It would he difficult for his
principals tu Issue nml sell bonds un
der such n clause. The cost or tho
proposed line will he In the neighbor
hood of two hundred thousand dol
lars. Previous to the election that Ih lo
be called there will no two or more
public meetings nt which represents
liven of the company now helni; rorm
ed will bo In iittenduuco to discus the
proposition In nil Its phases and from
ull angles that may come up. If the
I'lt.m.itt's of Kills and av late nr-
questioned iinone Is lo huvn tho priv
ilege or being heurd fully in tho mut
ter. Tin so meetings ure for the pur
pneos cf iilvlug the greeted, publlcit'
that Is possible.
An soon us Judge Woods mid the
others lira through with examining
the ordlnunto tho same will appear In
tho columns of The Hun. There will
bo no 'slur chamber" meetings or uny
endenvor, whatever, to rush tho mat
ter through. It is tho desire or ull
persons Interested that tho fullest
publicity and discussion or tho mat
ter be had.
A. C. Hills, Jr., is to bo at Helper
this coming week to tuke up tho wit
ter proposition with the council there.
M O. Danlord hns been retained by
Kills and associates. Ho coiniM from
Trinidad, Colo., und will look ufter
the construction and survey work
whenever It begins, Tho gentleman
arrived here this (I'rldny) morning
und lifter getting uciualnted with
so mo of tho vltUens of Price, us it
were, goes to Trlnldud for Christmas.
He will be back In tlmo to bo nt any
or the meetings or cltUens to iUsuum
the water mutter.
NEW UNDERTAKINC FIRM '
Suit IjiUd Cit) (,1'iilli'iiicii Catering lo
Curium Count) HiisIiich.
Klsnwhore In this Impression of Thu
Hun Is the advertisement or Silver tt
Do) In, Halt Iike City undertakers and
runeral directors with u pluie or busi
ness. Including u privuto chapel at
147 West Third Booth street The
firm Is u now one, but since engaging
In business, hut u few vvieks ago bus
become popular with n very lurgo
portion of the public throughout
Utah
llufore adopting this business. The
Hun Inquired Into the standing or tho
firm, uml finds it und Its members of
the best, flnunclull) und otherwise
Tho Hun has no hesitancy In recom
mending them tn nii)one In KusNrn
Utah that may require suuh services.
Ah wilt be soon by udvertlsemcnt tho
charges are most reasonable compared
with others,
Kaon member or tho firm of Silver
A Doyle Is a Utuh gentleman nnd ex
perienced us an embalmrr und funeral
director. Also thero Is a ludy attend
ant Communication may bo had by
telephono or by telegraph with tho
firm.
JHORE ELECTRIC TALK H
Mn)or uml Count II luforiiinll) Con- H
rdilcr Lighting Mutter. H
Widnesda) evening thero wus an ll
Informal meeting nt the home of A. ftH
V Horsley, tna)or. nt which nil thu MH
inrmhtm or Price's city council were 'BH
proecnt. It was purcl) tyii Inrnriuiil HjH
one mid wns to discus the mutter of i&l
the proposition or Utah Power mid IBI
Light compaii) 1 1 rtirnlsh this cltr IHI
"Juice" nt n inlnliniint iiwt of six thou- .Hl
Mini dollam i year. iiiewsunHl nut tin- 'LHI
der tho Mtme system hk nt present iRV
prevulls mid to lie mid lit coliumnrai ,HI
In the mme iiiHiiner as at tin- prsjeent iH
Curl It Marriiyi'ii, W. I" iilm und
Arthur J le were present ns repre- H
seiitatlvs or the rlgners of tho petl-
Hon reirntl) put up to the council, jH
These petitioners number seventy- H
five. The city Is now pn)lug eight H
hundred dollars per mouth for Ihe
eleelrlclty It consumes nml tn tho up- ,H
eratlon or tile plant und pump nt tho
reservoir. Utah Power pml Light JH
claims It Is ready In make the city it )i
big saving on this. 'H
W. W. Joins toutetidiil that the H
total cost under Ihe plan proHised
would stnml the city seven hundred H
und thirty dollurs it month, making H
the saving hardly worth tonsldorlug, ;H
Jones In his figures Includes) one man H
lo fix lines mid rend meters, W. It,
Putnam, representing Utuh Power and ,H
Light company, wus in Helper the '
sr me evening us tho meeting, mid was l
asked lo confer with Jones ns tn how ,H
and where the figuring of the two ii
men differ H
In case it contract Is made with j
Utuh Power and Light company the H
latter proposes to pay the illy thirty H
thousMiid dollars for Its eleilrle plant, H
which Is nbout rour thousand dollars
lesM thun Its upprulsed valuation. Thp
City would he nlluwed to retain tho H
rent estate and buildings now In use. H
Ah The Hun understands II, Utah iH
Power und Light proposes saving the H
city thlrty-slx hiimlrid dollars a cnr "H
If the commit proposed Is entered 'liH
Into three hundred dollars n mouth. JM
The touncll Is to again take up tho H
CONFERENCEJT PRICE - fl
Ciicouniglug Hc'iHirtM II) HluUe l'rtl-
ilciii') uml IIIIiom of Wurtls. M
Curhon stake quarterly conference WH
convened nt Price, December 1.0 nml lH
17, It 10, commencing Saturday ut : H
o'clock. Thero were In attondancn H
tho stuku prtsldeuey. members of the IH
high council, bishops and counselors tl
or wards ami a fair nttenduncu of lll
meinhers from various wards. sa)s iH
II. 8. Horsley, stake clerk. There was 'Lll
also In atteiidnnie Apostle Josuph P, IIH
Hmlth, Jr. -IH
Kncouruglng reports were made by 'lH
tho stake presldeno, bUliops r tho 'iH
various wurds uml olhtr orgunliu- if
lions, Tho topics treated upon were tLH
or u tlmel) nature, tho ueeesslty or 'bH
more famlllcH being visited by the iil
ward touchers, tho payment or tlthtv 'H
nnd offerings, living pure liven, obcill- il
enctt to laws mid to observe the prlu- 'al
ciploN of the gospel, ror by keeping '(CHI
the latter it would secure eternal sal- iNBI
The attendauio ut wiurnmeut nuet- till
lugs was touched upon, uml one or the al
speukors doubted whether wo would J
he up to stundard or the loolish vlr- LH
gins, iicvordlng to bulletins printed by
tho presiding bishop's office each H
month. 'H
l'ift)-flvo members of a local choir ll
rurnlshed the singing Hunduy after- JH
noon, which was very much appro- jl
Up to this time there ure five up- SSB
pllountH for clerkHtr tho InoomlnK ll
consolidated school limrd In the jn.r- H
sons of U A MuOeiU O. llorfmuuu Jnl
and Miss Uu lt.TniiniT of Price, 'IH
Prank T llcihuir of Ktorrs and Mm iLH
II. R Ilurko of Illawutha. There also tiLH
uro riva applicants for the treasurer- IHl
ship, Including A. D. MaoLean, C. II. flH
Stevenson, A. J, Leo, J A. Crockett 'BHI
and Oleu Ilalllnger IHI
Conductor Wlnsjov'a "stub" truln 'rH
truck a wagon and loam ut Carbon ' VvSbI
last Wednesday, Ono. horse wus killed, '9mKH
while the driver vyu badly hurt. Tho F'.3H
man, whoso name could not be as- jsnssu. CmHI
certalned, was seht to Ut, Mark's Hos. HHBkMsuHi
pltal, after being cared for by Dr. E. ilHHSHI
M. Nohcr of Castle Qate, tLSBSJlM
