f
Stye Jlarlf jatlf Republican
-
j
e Job Work.
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF ALL THE PEOPLE OF OHIO COUNTY
.Subscription $1 per Year
PL. XXIX.
HARTFORD, OHIO COUNTY, KY., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1916. No. 25
f
w
Hill II DISCARD
VOLUNTEER PLAN
v.
KNH. HCOTT AND WOOD RECOM-
hlV.SU PASSAGE OK UNIVER
SAL MILITARY niLL.
Seed army of 1,500,000
fi,Mmy Officers Declare Mllltlii To Jten
Jolo And Urge Federalization
of ItChcrvp Forces.
"Washington. Dec. 21. Tho mobil
ization of tho National Guard for bor
der service, was described as a mili
tary failure, emphasizing tho urgent
necessity of abandoning tho volun
teer system as tho Nation's rcllunco
tor defense, In statements mado Mon
day by MnJ. Gon. Hugh L. Scott,
hief of staff of the army, and MaJ,
Gen. Lconnrd Wood, commanding
the Kustorn Department, beforo the
Senate Kubcomralttce considering tho
v -Chamberlain universal -military train
ing- bill. ' '
Roth Generals advocated universal
training. Gen. Wood declared tho j
country now waa utterly dofcuselOBn j
.i t-4 .mit.A.HiiNl.ajl fo... . thai
Ktiinni u ni'ii'ub""," w, ..
r'anobllUation was a tragedy and that.
if tho guardsmen had met good
troops they "would never have known per cont fof nbout 1M00 aoycrn.
what hit them." Gen. Scott told nmt , rocelvlng JcB9 than
tho commlltre that lessons drown Q a ywir and of 500 a Jcftr for
from the present has proved that In neprc8Cntatlve.s secretary were
case of war with a. first-class Power. proylded f , the ,eet8lntiV0( excc
tho United States would need imrae- .. . .,,,,, nnnrnnrininn hiti.
dlately a trained forco of 1.600.000
men. with anothor 1.C00.000 avail-
ablo within ninety days..
On tho other sldo of tho question
tho committee heard Walter I
Vtshcr, of Chicago, former Secrotary
of tho" Interior, who opposed unlvcr
nl service, tho ho stood for adequate
defense measures and auRgestcd a
regular army of half a llllon. He
thought if the pay of privates were
raised to $30 per month tho srvlco
would be moro attractive to recruit.
Thirty Per Cent Rejected.
Gen. Wood, from whoso depart
ment went 85,000 of tho guardsmen
ent to tho border, said of tho men
enrolled, when tho call camo, an
average of thirty per cent or each
company hnd to bo dropped for phys
ical defects and tho organization
went to the border filled up with
"green" men.
"It has beena tragedy," ho said,
"but worth all it cost If wo only
profit by it. It is not the fault of
the officers or men, but of a defect
ivo system. If wo had boen conipcll-
od to meet good troops down thero,.
it would havo been a sceno of car
nage Thn guardsmen would never
havo known what hit them."
"What HhcAild wo do with tho Na
tional Guard, General?" Senator
llrady asked.
"It should bo rcplacod as rapidly
as possible with men trained under
a universal service system," Gon.
Wood roplled. "When tho system
has boon well started, I would drop ciariug they should shnro In tho gen
tho National Guard entirely from any eral prosperity which tho country Is
Hchcme of national defenso, altho wo eXporloncIug na a result of tho Euro
want every officer and man of them ocan wnr
in tho now plan. 13ut it must bo a
straight out Kodcral force."
-.
ARMY AVLVTION SCHOOL Mississippi, mado an unsuccessful
MAY MOVE TO MEMPHIS ijght to havo them abolished on tho
grpund that tho Federal resorvo
Washington, Doc. 19. Memphis, banua had mado them useless. Scc
Tonn., probably will bo solectcd by rclnry McAdoo advised Congro33, In
tho War Department for tho winter n Jqtter to-day thut tho subtroasurles
establishment of tho Array Aviation woro needed, altho further experlenco
School for tho Central Statos, now mgi,t domonstrato that tho functions
located at Chicago. Final solgctlon, ot BOnio ot thcm might bo transferred
It was said to-day, has not been t0 Washington,
mado, but tho possibilities of Mom- .
phis aro considered tho host of auy
place under contemplation. Tho
school Is fitted with equipment for an
aviation squadron and. is attonded
by about fifty students.
BOSTON GOES "WET"
UY NEARLY TWO TO ONE
Boston, Dec. 19. Boston to-day
voted to continue tho licensed sale
'Of liquor after tho liveliest- cam-
imlgn on the liquor question, that
city has had In years. Tho vote in
favor of llcenso was 53,459, with 29.-
997 against. Last year tho voto for
Hcenso was 4C,115 and 31,877
agalnL
Tho total vote was the largest
over oast here on tho license quoa-
tlon, which overshadowed all other
Issues in tlio cutupalgn.
Women holding bnnnors hearing
pictures of small children and words
"Ploaso protect us by voting no
Hcouho," wcro stationed in the vi
cinity of most of tho polling booths.
Motor trucks and brewery wagons
carrying printed appeals to vote
"yes" wcro sent through . the city
by the llcenso forces.
Tho Ilev. William A. Sunday, who
Is conducting an evangelistic cam-
ip'algu licro, took a prominent part In
tho fight. Ho delivered sovorol ad
dresses on the liquor Issuo and urg
ed tho voters who attended hfs incet-
ng8 ,0 voto .... Tll0 MnBgnci,u.
setts Anti-Saloon League scut out
thousands of circulars and kept a
force of orators busy for weeks.
North Adams Gc-cs Dry.
North Adams, Mass., Dec. 19.
This city went no-llccnso to-day for
the first tlmo in twcnty-nlno years
by a voto of 1,004 to 1,596. La3t
year the tlconsc forces won, 1,741 to
1. CC7.
4-
EXTRA PAY MEASURE
IS BITTERLY SCORED
OPl'ONENTS ASK-HOW' ADDITION
AL &10,0006(M)!8 TO 'BE
" .
RAISED. r
woVll,n nn ,,,,,,. n,
lnMt' -nt 'frnm n m t
od by tho 0U80 wUhout
ror,np. vft(B Thn .T7nppptnr,lla nnw
u rqcord vote. Tho 'Hocretarles now
get $1,500 a yea j. An attempt to
provide each Representative with an
extra stenographer at $7G a month
during tho session failed.
approprIntlons nBgr'eRatlng
Discussion of tho measure, which
nbout $39,000,000, was productivo
o much debat0 0Ver the iluanclal con-
ditlon of tho country. Chairman
Fitzgerald, of tho Appropriations
Committee, and Represontativo Raln
ey, of.tho Ways and Means Commit
tee, protested against tho proposed
increases ou the ground that tho
fj0vcrnniont already faced a deficit.
Representative Rainey declared the
next budgot would exceed $1,600,
000,000, and that tho country was
confronted with tho possibility of
attempting to collect $500,000,000
moro iu new taxes.
"How ore you going to raise It?"
ho asked, "rostoro tho Payue-Ald-rlch
bill? That is tho proposal soma
of you mako, yet to save your llvoa
you can not frame a tariff bill which
wlll yeul ovcr $350,000,000 a year."
Mr. Rainey also asserted that tho
limit In Yovenuo had boen reached
from Income-taxes, tho presont rate
being the highest Jn tho .world, and
that Natlon-wldo prohibition soon
would mako It necessary to ralso
$257,000,000 from some now sourco.
Favors Moro Pay.
Republican Loader Mann favored
higher salaries for employes, .do-
Tho bill carried appropriation? for
jail of tho nlno subtreaBurles In tho
'country. Representntlvo SIsson, of
FEDERAL RULLT.TIN SAYS
WORRY SHORTENS LIFE
Washington, Dec. 18. Tho Puh
lio Health Service, which has ooen
gathering statistics .on nervous dli
oasos and their tendency to shorten
ltrn to-day Issued a bullotln against
worrying.
"So far as Is known," says tho bul
letin, "no bird ever trlod to build
more, nosts than Its neighbor; no fox
ever fretted becauso ho had only one
nolo In which to hldo; no squirrel
ovcr died of anxiety lest he should
not lay by enough nuts tor two wn-
ters instead of ono, and no dog ever
lost any sleep over tho fact that ho
did uot havo enough bones laid aside
for hU declining years,"
' T colossus. "5i
" Hr 1
ALLIES REJECT -GERMANY'S
OFFER
REJECT PROPOSALS FOR PEACE.
SEPARATELY AND PREPAKK
' TO CONTINUE WAR.
MUST HAVE GUARANTEE
Llojd-Georgo Sajs Complete Resti
tution, And Future Welfare Ab
solutely Necessary.
London, Dec. 19.- Tho. announce
ment in tho House of Cqramons to
day by David Lloyd-George, tho now J
Prlmo Minister, that tho first act of
his administration was tho rejection
of tho proposal of the Central Pow
ers for a pcaco conference constitut
ed ono of tho most momontous scenes
which the oldest parllamentry veter
an had ever witnessed.
Tho new Premier declared that bo-
foro tho Allies conld give favorablo j
consideration to such an Invitation,
thoy must know thnt Germany wa-j
prepared to accedo ,to tho Allies'
terms, giving "corapleto restitution,
full reparation and effectual guar
antees," and "to enter a conference"
upon tho invitation of Germany pro
claiming herself victorious, without
any knowledge of her proposals,
would bo putting our heads into n
nooso with tho end of tho ropo in
Germany s hands." -
Mi T.liv.l.finnrirt nacnrtml Hinf nt
tho moment Germany waa nennlnc
X Z L?ZZL7LlTn
tho note, assuming her convictions
as to tho rights ot other nations,
sho was dragging Belgians Into slav
ery. Ho announced that tho noto
prcsentod thru Washington con
tained no proposals ot tonus, but was
a paraphraso ot Chancellor von
Iiethmann-Hollwcg'8 speech, and that
tho Allies had separately concluded
to reject It, altho thoy had informal
ly exchanged views, and would.wlth
ln a few days, present a Joint reply.
Asqultli Seconds Views.
Mr. Asqulth, former Premier, sec
onded Mr. Lloyd-George's decision
with oven stronger words, and almost
at tho same moment, Earl Curzon was
informing tho Lords that tho gov
oinmont would enter no couforonco
that did not guaranco tor Europo tho
frco and independent existence of
nations great and small. Tho Mar
quis ot Crowo affirmed tho approval
of tho members of tho late govern
ment. Tho day was a double-Important
ono for tho Commons, becauso tho
now Premier unfolded his program for
wldo-rcachlng war measures, and
Mr. Asqulth closed the last chapter
1; his nine yo-rs of leadership with
an accounting ot his
ship.
war steward
Florida's highest point Is 300 feet
c' cvo sea level
" "Los Angtltt Time.
$45,000 IS TO DE
GIVEN EMPLOYES
BONUS TO UK PRESENTED TO KY.
' IVQRKEItS OK CUMBERLANJi '
t ' TELEPHONE CO.
1000. TO SHARE GIFT
Remembrances nt Christmas Time to
Help Meet High Cost Or
Living.
D. K. Turnbull, "general manager
of tho Cumberland Telephone Com
pany, In Kentucky, with headquarter
in Louisville, made an-ideal Santa
Glaus -yesterday when ho notified all
employes In the Statu or tho compa
n 's plans to distribute- Christmas ro
membranecs in tho form of cash
bonuses.
Tho object is to express tho ap
preciation of tho company for loyal-
ty and ralthful performance of duty
and at tho samo tlmo to help work
ers meet the high cost of living.
In Louisville, 275 men and women
will bo benefited, whllo in tho Stato
1,000 employes wlll bo remember
ed. To Distribute 845,000.
TJie plan of distribution limits pay
ments to employes receiving $3,000
a year or less. A man or woman fn
lco ouo year win recelvo a bonU8
ni . n,n Hniflrv for thron wnok.
. .. ... ....
Wh" employes W, ,mv0 bccn wlUlirlly follows that they must hayo in-
tUo comPany on,y threo month8' w,U. formation to perform these duties. I
rocolvo. pay for two weeks.
In tho Southern group of tho Boll
companies 12,000 people will got a
bonus. Tho total cash distribution tho best Interest of tho counties, and
in this territory will amount to $400,- i am 0f tho opinion that tho law Jus
090. In Kentucky tho total cash dls-. tines tho expenditure."
trlbutlon will bo $4C,0'00.
Thcso amounts wlll represent part
of a fund of $G,000,000 which tho
company has set asido this year to
bo given to employes thruout tho
country at Christmas time,
Not Profit-Sharing Plan.
In breaking tho good news In this
terrltory yesterday, Mr. Turnbull Johnson Company at Brqcovlllo, nlno was their first visit to "tho movies,
gnvo out a statement from W. T. miles from hero, at 1 o'clock this af- Thoy wont to seo Annotto Kollcrman
Gentry, of tho Southern Bell Tele- ternoon. Tho dead nro William In a featuro film,
phono Company In" Atlanta. Mr. llnlloy, 42, and Thomas Patterson, Notice of tho anniversary was tak
Gontry said: ! 45. Each was married and leaves a on In tho House, whero Rcpubllcao
"This distribution is' in no senso family. Tho bodies havo beon recov- Lcador Mann, Just beforo adjourn
a profit-sharing plan. . erod. ' . ' mont to-night, nrousod hearty ap-
"Wo aro taking this step in tho Tho fifteen men sorlously burned plauso by making It tho subject of a
sincere effort to assist our employes
in an emergency brought about by
tho high cost of living. This seems
to be tho most reasonable and eqult-
ablo manner in which wo can help
them In this situation. Wo havo had
a fairly good year, but this amount,'
distributed to the employes wlll bo
twlco as much as will, remain tp tho
stockholders after paying interest on
bonds and six per cent Interest on the
capital stock.
"I am glad, indeed, that wa pre In
la position to show in such a sub
stantial manner our appreciation of
tho loyalty and efficiency of such a
magnificent organization. Partlcu-
j larly, am I glad, that It conies at n
tlmo when it will add to tho Joy of
j tho Christmas season and cnablo
)iiui;iii;uti7 tuu ciiuii: nun luuuiy iu
faco the new year with renewed cour
age " Loulsvlllo Herald.
c-o "
Miss Duke GUes Party.
Mlfcs Vcrna Duko entertained for
jhrr friends Friday evening with a
theater parly and luncheon ut tho
Commercial Hotel. Tho dining room
of the hotel was decorated for tho
occasion with red predominating as
, a color scheme. The following guests
were picsont:
j Misses Willie Smith, Clara 'Hob-
, eitson, Hettlo Hlloy, Mrs. K. G. Dar-
rass, Ruth Itiley and Vcrna Duke.
Messrs. E. Y. Purk, Clarence Iglc
heart, Honderson .Murphrco, A. D.
Kirk, Mack Foglo and E. G. Bar
rasa. MAGISTRATES MAY
COLLECT EXPENSES
KIHC.1L COURTS GIVEN AUTHOR
. 1TY TO ATTEND ROAD ENGI
NEERS' CONVENTION.
Fiscal Courts in Kentucky have
the right to appropriate money to
pay their expenses in attending
meetings of 'county road engineers.
This is the substance or nn opinion
given Rodman Wiley, Commissioner
of Public Roads, by Attorney M. M.
Logan in response to a request fn
view of tho meeting of county 'road
engineers of Kentucky to bo held at
Bowling Green January 17 to 20
Tho Attorney General's opinion in
part follows: jt0 tho Mexican Executive. It waa
"By tho provision of Section not moro thau 450 words In length.
1S4JT, Kentucky Statutes, tho Fiscal It wa8 hanaed totheIexlcan repre
Conrt Jina the-right to appropriate , 80ntatlves In Joint-session -and 'trtws
money for tho purpose of providing ( mlUod by them aira08t immediately
for the good condition of tho high-t0 QUorotaro whero, it Is expected,
ways in the county. It is probable It wil, bo glven prorapt consideration
that under this provision of tho law by Gca Qarranza. It was cabled and
tho Fiscal Court would havo the n copy. 8ent by. ma.
right to appropriate money to pay! Tho message of the Americans wis
the expenses or the members ot, tbo
Fiscal Court in obtaining tho in
formation which they would obtain
In attendance at a meeting of this
kind.
"Section 1845, Kentucky Statutes
which allows compensation to" tho
members of tho Fiscal Court, except
tho County Judge, W each day they
aro engaged in actual attendance at
tho meetings of the committees of
said court. If tho Fiscal Court should
resolve Itself into a committee for
tho purposo ot attending a road
meeting to discuss tho bbst mothod j
of constructing roads, It would come
within this section, but this section
only appllos to counties that maln-lty or tuat would bo incompatible
tain a system of free turnpike under wtu tho ideals of his Government,
tho control and supervision of tho The Mexicans appeared alm03tcqua'
Flscal Court. jy confident that ratification of tha
"Whilo tho authority of tho Fiscal protocol would bo withhold no long
Court to appropriate money must bo er and lnnt BUortly after tho begin
strletly construed, but a3 tho duty ntng ot the now year they would be
is Imposed upon this court to oycrseo discussing with tho American com-
tho construction of roads.lt necessa-
'
j nm willing to mako an exception In
(his particular case, as I bellovo It is
f0r tho best Interest of tho Stato and
---
3 ItnAiED; 15 INJURED
IN MINE EXPLOSION
Vlncenes, Ind Dec. 19. Two dead
and fifteen seriously burned is the
I toll of tho explosion that occurred
In tho mino owned by tho Ollphant-
following tho explosion aro In local
hospitals.
Thoy aro expected to ro-
cover.
MARRIAGE LICENSE ISSUED
SINCE OUR LAST REPORT
Charles F. King. Ccntortown, to
Georgia Lco Goff, Centertown,
Barclay Shoulders, Hartford, R. 4,
to Fannlo Flshor, McHenry,
L. O. Hoover, Hartford, R. 5., to
Laura Llles, Horton.
TO FORCE REPLY
FROM CARRANZA
AMERICANS ON COMMISSION
PLACE RESPONSIBILITY ON"
MEXICO.
ADJOURN FOR HOLIDAYS
After Asking First Chief For Hi
Views As To Continuing Nego
tiations for Settlement.
Philadelphia, Dec. 19. Secretary
of Interior Lano and his colleagues
ou tho Mexican-American Joint Com'
mission placed upou Gen. Carrama-to-day
tho responsibility ot deciding
whether tho American Government
should continue Us efforts to effect a
satisfactory nnd amicablo adjustment
of tho questions affecting- tho rela
tions ot the two countries, and thfl
adjourned until after the holidays
Through his representatives- on tho
commission they .pent to him a com
munication further "explaining tho
position of tho United States Govern
ment and containing protestation!
that there exists any intention to vie
lato the sovereignty of Mexico. It
way mado clear, however, that thcra
can bo no modification ot tho, condi
tions on which the American troop
will be withdrawn .from Mexico and
and that tho attitude of the Govern
ment as outlined in the declaration
of policy made by Secretary Lane
when the protocol was signed at AN
iantlc City has not been altered.
The communication was terse, but
studious caro had been exercised to
rkcep out of tho document any
phraseolocy that might give offense
in reply to that presented by tho
Mexicans when they reconvened here
yesterday. Tho communication of
tho Mexicans was not signed by Mr.
Carranza, but his spokesman made
it clear that It was an authorized
statement of his attitudo nnd the
reply given by tho Americans to-day
is understood to have been address-
' ed to tho Mexican commissioners, at'
though Intended for their Executive.
Neither tho American nor tho Mex
ican commissioners appeared pessi
mistic In their contemplation of the
Uturo. Tho Americans Insisted th.it
thoy had asked Carranza to sign'
nothing that would impair his Hlg-
missloners those questions In which
both natlons arQ interested an
whlch ar0 not covered in tho briel
agreeracut whoso ratification is being
awaited,
.- ,
PRESIDENT AND WIFE
CELEBRATE ANNIVERSARY
Washington, Dec. 18. Tho Presi
dent and 'Mrs. Wilson to-day cele
brated tholr first wedding anniver
sary with a motor rido, a family din
nor party and a visit to tho moving
pfttures.
Tho President and his wife are
very consistent theater-goers, but it
brio' addrcca,
"The boauty of American poli
tics," said Mr. Mann, "Is that wa ac
cept results and remain friends, Mr.
Wilson rocently was ro-elected Pm
t td nnt voto tor his
day Is tho anniversary
... Jay m bis 1L
to felicltato him arid
tholr happy union
wish for them a
happiness aad a
.life."
:.-H
j I
