FULTON
COUNTY
VOL XXXIII NO 37
$1.50 PER YEAR
WATTSEON OHIO, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1910
THE DIVIDE
Thanksgiving Day In Porto Rico A
Wonderful Mountain Drive Camp
Fir Thanksgiving Dinner " A
Tropical Sunset Moonlight In The
Mountains.
W are glad the friends at home
take an interest in what the "Runa
ways" are doing; and think perhaps
you would like to know how we spent
Thanksgiving day.
About eleven o'clock we five, Mr.
Knapp, Mrs. Brewer 'and Miss Brewer
from the state of New York, and the
"Runaways" from Ohio, started for a
drive over the mountains toward San
Juan. We had gone about five miles
when we had a blow-out. This was
unexpected as three tires were new
and the fourth in good condition. We
topped at the side of the road under
the, ehade of fine trees and just wait
ed a bit until a peon came along. Mr.
Knapp wrote an order for a tire and
nt him back to town. He walked the
tea miles, barefooted in a little over
two hours. In the mean time we
found, near-by, a little glen through
which gurgled mountain brook, and
uiere we built our camp, fire over
which we made delicious American
coifee and broiled bacon. W had con
densed milk from the states and but
ter and Mrs. Brewer s home made
.bread and other good things on does
Dot and in rorto Kican hotels,
Never did turkey, cranberry sauce,
pumpkin pie and other "flxins" taste
better than did our camp fir dinner in
the mountains.
Between two and three o'clock, we
again, started on our way gliding so
mootniy over the splendid highway
that on scarcely noticed the sharp
turns and many windings except as
each new turn presented a view of
mountains, valleys and sometimes the
ea, seemingly more beautiful and
picturesque than any before seen.
At a distance of about seven mile
from Guayama and an elevation of
2,000 leet, w caught a fine view of
the city and the sea beyond.
' When we were nearing the tops of
the main divide we left the car in the
care of a little native and started on
twenty minutes climb up the moun
tains. We passed some . houses, a
' idiecription of which I shall not at
tempt, but there were beautiful flowers
in the garden and banana and orange
trees. Mr. Knapp bought some clua
1 ters of oranges which we ate later in
the true Porto Rican way. A hole is
cut in on end and the outside pealed
down about a third of the way. One
squeezes the fruit and drinks the juice1,
Try eating a fresh picked orange in
thia way and you realize you never
bef or have tasted one so deli cious. At
the summit of the peak we were re
warded by a magnificient view. To the
South we beheld the Caribbean Sea
shimmering in the western sunlight
and awav to the North San Juan and
the Atlantic Ocean. And everywhere
between the two seas were mountains
and valleys and mountain streams. On
tat mountain sides and in the valleys
are the little thatched - native huts.
These poor -people who know so little
of the Joys of life, or how to exist
Ven comfortably, surely need the
education that is being lavished upon
them.
One cannot expect to see a com
plete reconstruction in one generation
and we must remember that our own
dear country has v had only eighteen
years in whiah to better conditions and
overcome the effects of oppression of
centuries. One passes neat little
school houses by the roadside, even in
the mountain districts, and through
the open doors and windows looks in
to the children's bright faces. We
are all attracted by the children. They
are- courteous and polite. It is no
uncommon thing to see a little native
mil and lift his hat especially if he
large part of the way there is a bor
der of large trees on the side looking
toward the valleys and deep .gorges;
and their tops reach over the road
way and intermingle with the foliage
on the mountain side, making a beau
tiful and perfect archway.
imagine the weird beauty .of such
places at night all illuminated by the
headlights! At one place there had
been a land slide after our passing
along in the afternoon and it took
careful drivinc to thread our wav
through the debris of rocks and earth.
At the point where we could look
down on the brilliantly lighted city of
(juayama we drove to the side of the
road and stopped the car to enjoy the
spendid view. By the light of the
moon we ate the remains of our pic
nic dinner consisting mostly of devils
food, fruit punch and bananas.
That drive over the mountains I
never wished to. take, was, more
weirdly fantastic than one could ever
imagine and I now count it one of
the happiest experiences of my life.
RAILROAD DAMAGE SUIT
A suit for $12000 damages brought
by the administratiors of the estate of
John W. Myers, deceased, against the
New York Central Railroad Company
came to an end in the Cemmon Pleas
Court of Lucas county last Tuesday
morning. John W. Myers, a saw mill
man was killed by a N. Y. C. Railroad
passenger train on a highway cross
ing near Holland, March first, 1913.
Suit wss filed by the administrators of
his estate for $12000 add the case
came up , for trial In the Common
Pleas Court of Lucas and the jury re
turned a verdict on Tuesday morning
in favor of he railroad company.
'VILLAGE CHRISTMAS
Second Wauseon Community Christ
mas Tree Opening Exercises Sat
urday Evening Carolers From
Sunday Schools Baskets of Christ
mas Cheer.
. CITY SCHOOLS
Physical Examination of Pupils in The
Grades Completed Children's Teeth
Eyes, Ears, Nose and Throat In
spection Shows Need of Attention
Debating Season Opened.
Thanks to the good offices of the
ladies of the Civic Club and the co
operation of the Booster's Club Wau
seon will .have its second Community
Christmas Tree. The invitation, as it
was last year, is to everyone in the
community, whether they live in town
or in the country to come and enjoy
the tree and participate in the Christ
mas spirit of good will which the tree
engenders.
The opening exercises will be held
on Saturday evening and Superin
tendent C. . Perry will be in charge.
Trumpeters will come from the
North, South, East and West meeting
at the tree which frill atand in the
center of of Fulton street opposite the
Arcade Building, promptly at seven
o'clock; then will follow a program
consisting of songs by the children of
the grade schools, prayer by Rev. T.
a. Ashton, an address by Mayor Hoy
a song by the Wauseon High School
Chorus and remarks by Superintend
ent C. U. ferry.
The tree will stand durine the holi
day season as a symbol of the good
will ami unity which 'The Christ
brings to the world and which the viL
lage and community - seeks to exem-
pluy. Kemember the call is not "Come
to our Christmas Tree"; but "Come
to your Christmas tree" and bring the
spirit of Christmas with you. There
is room and a cordial welcome for all.
The Sunday Schools of the village
will send out bands of carolers on
Sunday evening and a candle or lamp
set in your window, if you live in
town, will be for them a sign that you
are glad to hear the Christmas enrols.
' We have no definite information in
regard to the program for Sunday
evening but is is generally understood
that the bunday Schools of the vu-
The medical examination of th mi.
pils has been completed. The dental
inspection was made by the Jocal den
tists some weeks ago and revealed
that about 85 per cent, of the pupils
require some attention, either the ex
traction of some teeth, the filling of
teeth, or cleaning. By way of example
uie uura ana iourtn grades may be
cited. The- fourth trrade with 46 du-
pils needs to have 58 teeth extracted,
iuo teem mied and 225 need to have
the teeth cleaned. Only 3 pupils in
this room need no dental attention.
The third grade with 67 pupils has 29
that need to have the teeth cleaned, 69
teeth that should be extracted, and 158
teeth that should be filled. Four out
of the 67 need no attention.
The examination of the ears. nose.
throat and chest was made by the local
physicians last week. Naturally a
great many enlarged and diseased
tonsils and some adenoids were found.
It seems that many parents bave lit
tle idea how seriously bad adenoids
and tonsils interfere with the physical
and school welfare of the child. A
few cases of defective hearing were
found. Some of these cases (and some
of the worst ones) can quite easily he
remedied by a physician and should
of course be attended to. The hearing
has gradually become defective and
often the children and parents aa not
realize that the child needs attention.
Fortunately few. pupils were found to
have a weak or irregular heart, and
equally few are the cases of weak
lungs. This is very gratifying.
Probably the most important part
of the Inspection was that of the eyes
This work was done by Miss Anderson
a well trained nurse in the employ of
the Ohio Commission for the Blind.
This commission is .doing a great work
in the care and prevention of blind-
noes. It was found here, as elsewhere.
that about ten per cent of the pupils
really need attention quite badly be
cause of the condition of the eyes.
Several children were found that can
see practically nothing with one eye.
Quite, a few have defective vision in
both eyes. Very evidently the pupils
cannot do good .work if they cannot
see. In a great many cases the pu
pils said they did not know there was
anything- wrong with their eyes, they
had never been able to see well or the
eyesehnd grown weaker so gradually
1AT HE YE DONE?
By Angela Moore
"What have you done with my chiKf"Thy children,- O Life, are lying
dren?
God cried to the sons of men.
"I gave them birth
To gladden the earth
With the hrst great dream again.
I sent them forth from my kingdom
As torches to light the world,
And each onecarried a message, . 1
In each was my purpose furled."
And the voice of God was as thunder
That cleaveth the skies in twain,
For up through the stars and under,
Rending the void asunder
Came the children's cry of pain.
And the sons of earth made answer,
"O, God, Creator of man,
A terrible thing hath fallen,
For War, it hath w recked thy
plan,
When .men are fighting for "honor ,'
When men are fighting for 'right'
They have no time for the children
Whose cries come out of the
night."
"What have ye done with my chil
dren!"
Cried. Life to the world at war, ,
"What is the sound of wailing
And what is the .weeping for ?
-My children went forth rejoicing.
With laughter and love and mirth
They came-from the hills of Heaven
To people the plains of earth.
Saviours and seers I meant them
Each had a glorious part;
Spirits of fire
From my desire
To gladden the great ' world's
heart."
Where the shrill storm shatters
past,
They are wasting, starving, dying,
In thewake of the winter blast.
And War has . trampled their bodies
And Famine has sucked their
breath
Rauty that God endowers
Scattered like wasted flowers
1 Over the hills of death."
"What have ye done with nay children?"
Came the sorrowing Saviour's
words.
"Mp helpless, beautiful children,
Tender and sweet as birds.
I sent them forth from my kingdom
And) each dear throat
Flying on rapturous wing
Had a golden note
And a heavenly song to sing.
Helpers of earth, I sent them,
Each on his radiant way:
Doers of deeds and dreamers of
dreams
To hasten the world's new day.
"Th? children, O Cltvist, are pleading
For bread in. the pillaged ways;
Their delicate feet are bleeding
Through shivering nights and
Their beautiful wings are broken.
The song in their throat is hush
ed;
They lie, War's terrible token,
In the roads his heel has crushed.
For nations are mad with battle,
They marshal in huge array;
When armies fight
For 'God and right'
'Tis the innocent souls must pay.'
WHAT WILL YE 10 WITH IWiY CHILDREH?
Thunders God's voice to-day.
"Will ye let the millions perish,
Or save themjsvhile ye may!
If ye heed not the wail of my children
Nov stop their hunger and pain,
Ye .shall answer to me in the future,
Shall pray- to me all in vain.
Ye. who-are wrapped in plenty,
Unless ye give from your store
In. bountiful, joyous measure,
I shall answer your prayers" no
more.".
"They have dared dispute my -purpose
s 1 1 .
w.w A: ? VT " tut a brutally torn my torches-
lage will gather at the tree on Sun
on the face of the traveler a sug4day evening before the hour of even
ing BCEfices aim sing vnristmaa
songs.
The Civic Club has charge of the
distribution of the Christmas baskets
Which will be made up" of the gifts that
were brought last Sunday by the mem
bers of the various Sunday Schools
and churches for those who might not
otherwise have a very joyous Christ
mas. The Boy Scouts and other citi
zens will assist in the distribution.
srestion of a smile for him.
I think I have not mentioned the
lovely -wild flowers along the road
ways. There are Cacti, Boston ferns,
Cannas and lots of others, the names
. of which I do not know. In the gar
dens, there are wonderful morning
glories-that seem to last the greater
part of the day, an poignrettas and
mammoth oleanders.
As we were descending the north
id of th divide w rounded a point
on the mountain side and looked down
into a valley of cane fields all in bloom.
These beautiful plumes are two feet
and mor In length and seen in the
morning - or lata afternoon sunshines
are very delicate and exquisite in
coloring, being of a silver grey touch
ad miUt lavender. -
Whan w reached the foot of th
mountains,- we had th novel exper
ience of riding over a stretch of per
fect! straight road, with tall, trees on
ither side, of perhaps sixty or eighty
voa. W passed through Cayey, a town
of. three . thousand inhabitants and
drove on to th summit of on of th
lesser divides, where we had a view of
many- tobacco fields en the sides of
thet lower mountains.
I-did not acknowledge it then, but
I aonfes now, I was extremely glad
when the man of the party turned
the machine toward home. I knew
even than w could not reach Guaya
. ' ma until after night. Night comes, so
. suddenly - here. - "Th sun's rim
. dips, tfea-star rush out, at one stride
comes the. dark." I had had no desire
' for a ride over the mountains at night
, but how little we know what w real
ly want or the thing that may bring
us keenest enjoyment. It was only the
Veonfidenea-in th steady hand of the
driver that kept me from nervous ap-
' prehension. It was. dark when we
reached- Cayey and had ahead of us
irhieen miles over the main divide.
A we wound and climbed and turn
ad -sreund th mountain side, we
caught glimpses from time to time of
the bright electric lights, of Cayey
seating in the little valley all sur
rounded by mountains. It seemed in.
deed a fairy dreamland and was a
sight so-pretty and unique it cannot
be described.
Th- Coqui is very like our tree toad
aOO lite BiUKtug vi biitrao iibbio wca-
tures Was the only break in the still.
Th. fire' flies darted here and there.
The stars and young moon lent a sub
dued light to mountain and valley;
and our headlights, as the machine
made twists and turns, flashed first
on one side of the roadway, then on
the other, giving glimpse of granite
wati or splendid trees festooned with
tropical vines, of mountain cataracts
rushing down from great heights, or
on th opposite side deptns uniatnom
able in th mvstic lieht.
Near the summit of the divide at a
taeat in- thv narrow road, w cam
upon an, automobile stalled. Mr.
Knapp went to the rescue, found the
trocbU and helned start the machine.
W passed a little farther on when
th road widened.
There are man; places where the
mountain wall rises abruptly from
the roadway on the on side and drops
off hundred of feet on the ohter - A
is strongly urged by the State Com
mission for the blind that the eyes
be well- cared for while the pupils are
in school and use the eyes a great
deal and quite intensively much of the
time; then chances are that after
school days are over the eyes will need
little attention because the strain up
on them has, been reduced. This cer
tainly seems to be a very sensible
view of the matter.
This physical examination was nec
essarily quite hasty - and somewhat
superficial. But it has proven that
there is considerable need and in some
cases imperative need of attention of
one kind or another. Many parents
have already followed the suggestions
given on the report cards and are co
operating with the school authori
thorities in trying to have the chil
dren in the best physical condition
possible. Already there is reason to
feel that the work has been worth
while. The teachers airri to teach the
children to preserve their teeth, to be
well and strong, and this inspection
has been a great aid to them. . And the
spirit of co-operation shown by the
community and some of the organiza
tions in the community greatly encour.
age them. There is much reason for
the hope that we shall have more
health and less sickness in our com
munity as a result of this inspection.
- For some time there has been pre
paration for two debates. .The Fresh
men challenged the Sophomores and
the Juniors cnallenged the Seniors for
a debate and in each case .the chal
lenge was accepted. The question in
each was: Resolved; That in all busi.
(Continued on page 12)
And quenched their flame in the
dust.
Yet, ye who are guiltless hearken!
I shall scourge' you with whips -of
wrath -
Unless ye rescue the children
Who die in the cyclone's path.
For they are thine own, thy kindred,
r Toy children, as they are mine,
Blood of thy .blood, heart of thy
heart,
Linked by a tie divine. .
Souse from thy sleep, O Nations,
Gaze on the ruins and see - -
Inasmuch as ye did this crime to
these
Ye have done it, O, world, to me.
"Lo, from each wasted country
Reaches a piteous. hand;
Poland, -Armenia, Belgium,
'. '. , . Where mothers weep through the
- land: '
World, we are willing to perish
If our little ones- may live;
For they are the Future's children,
For them, we beseech-thee, give!"
L
Last Meeting For Year 1916 Water
Works Board Notify Council that
They Must Have Money to Keep The
Plant Supplied With Coal Finances
Special Police and Sidewalks.
Mur Friends
We sincerely extend you
the -Greetings-of -the 1 Christmas
:Seaon and trustee-New Year '
may bring you Happiness,
Health and Prosperity.
Respectfuljy
Ives-Pike Goi
Council met for the last time in
1916 last Monday evening, the min
utes of the last regular meeting were
read and approved and the council set.
tied down to the problems before
them which were largely financial.
Messrs. Lyon and Orth of the Board
of Public Affairs were present to ap
peal to the council for funds to keep
the waterworks plant in operation.
This board is facing an emergency
caused in part by the extraordinary
advance in the price of coal. Coal
that previously cost $2.30 per ton de
livered at the plant now costs $5.40
per ton. The plant uses approximate
ly two car loads of coal per month.
The coal supply at the plant is about
exhausted there are no funds to pay
tor more coal, nor will there be funds
until after the next quarterly collec
tion 01 water bills. The board can
not order coal without assuring them.
selves that the money will be on hand
to pa'y the bills when they become due
and the situation resolves itself in
to this; that the board must have
money, about $1500 or shut down the
plant. Questioning by the council
elicited the information that the rates
charged for water are barely enough
to meet the running expenses of the
plant i under ordinary conditions and
that within a short time a large sum
of money will be needed to increase
the water supply and the efficiency of
the plant to a point where an ade
quate pressure and supply to meet the
requirements of the village may be
secured.
After lengthy general discussion
the Mayor appointed the finance and
city solicitor to meet witji the Board
of Public Affairs to determine upon
some plan whereby the money may be
secured, -the finance committee to re
port to the council at the next reguj
lar meeting.
The matter of the special night po
lice was taken up and discussed, the
method of paying the two men now
employed being the main issue.
Sidewalk delinquents were consider,
ed and discussed and ways and means
of helping property owners to comply !
with the orders of the council in re
gard to fixing sidewalks,
The claim ordinance was passed
and council adjourned to meet on Tues
day evening January 2nd, 1917.
OF INTEREST TO TAXPAYERS
The Fulton County Treasurer will
receive taxes until January 20th, 1917.
The office will be open every day from
8 to n :6U and from 1 to 4 except Sat
urday when it will close at 2:30 p. m.
All persons desiring statements will
you kindly get them before January
iztn, as it will be impossible to get
them out for you after that date.
Yours truly,
G. SCOTT ROOS, Treas.
NO TOBACCO FOR MINORS
Two parties from a neighboring
town were .arraigned before Justice
L. H. Deyo last Friday charged with
selling cigarettes and tobacco tavBbys
THE BUCKEYE CORN TOUR
Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Spring returned
Sunday from a tour on the Buckeye
Corn Special visiting Pittsburg, New
York, Washington, D. C, they visit
ed the Capitol, White House, say and
shook hands with President Wilson,
also saw the Treasury building, Na
tional Museum, U. A. K. Hall, fan-
American building, Congressional Li
brary and enjoyed a boat ride to and
from Mt. Vernon, where President
Washington is buried, also a visit to
Washington monument which is the
highest piece of masonry in the world
being 550 feet high, having 999 steps
from bottom to top.
At New York they visited Ciity Mall
where. Mayor Mitchell gave the party
a warm welcome to New York City,
also visited Natural Museum of His
tory also a tour of Broadway and
Wall street where they saw Wool
worth building seven hundred and fif
ty feet high, fifty-five stories, cost
$15,000,000, tallest structure in the
world. They also visited the Aquar
ium. They enjoyed a boat ride up
and down East and Hudson rivers
passing Ellis Island, Statue of Li
berty and sailed out across New
York Bay where floats the commerce
of the world. Returning we passed
the interned vessels of European war
and up the beautiful Hudson river to
Grants Tomb and returning to West
42nd street dock and disembarked. At
6 o'clock we attended the magnificent
banquet in the great ball room of the
Hotel Astor, 1000 people being seat.
ed at one time for dinner. Hon. C.
P. Bruce, Hon. C. W. Burkett made
addresses at this banquet. We were
also entertained by the famous quar
tet and by a fine program on the big
pipe organ. After the banquet we
adjourned to the Hippodrome where
we witnessed the greatest show in
America in the most gorgeous play
house. After the show we marched
to the Pennsylvania station leaving
New York to spend the night in Pull
mans; breakfast at daylight on the
train, passing around Horse Shoe
Bend and through the beautiful
scenery of the Allegheny mountains,
returning home through the great
city of Pittsburg to Toledo and Fay
ette, tired but well repaid for our
money and time spent.
THE NORTHWEST
Letter From Hardy Pocock of Wash-
L ington to Old Friend and Schoolmate
W
Good ' Soil, Equal Climate and
Good Crops, .
ADVERTISES WAUSEDTi
Big Willys-Overland Convention In
Toledo Dealers and Salesmen Get
Acquainted With Toledo Plant Big
Parade In Which Wauseon Figures.
Without doubt the largest fanyly
gathering ever held in the industrial
world is the one now being held in
Toledo. This gathering is under the
auspices of tile Willys-Overland Com
pany and consists in bringing together
their family of salesmen from every
part of the United States. This con
vention has been in progress tor two
weeks and closes this week. The plan
as carried out consists in having about
1200 dealers and salemen present for
two days at a time. As soon as one
deleeati&i departs another arrives.
They come in special Pullman trains
and are Dlaced upon sidings close to
the administration building and these
cars are occupied during the entire
time that the delegation remains in
the citv. From the time of their ar-
under eighteen years og age. Both rival until their departure they are
parties were fined $25.00 and costs
The law is very rigid in regard to the
selling of tobacco to minors and. of
ficers are making a campaign- against
violators in this country.
ELECTION NOTICE.
The stock holders of the Fulton
County Building, Loan & Savings
Company will meet at the office of
said company, Wauseon, Ohio, on Sat
urday January 5th, 1917, at one
o'clock p. m., to eleet five directors for
the year.
37-2 , F. L. S. DARBY, Sec'y.
CHRISTMAS PROGRAM
There will be a Christmas program
given-' at the Church of the Brethren
(Dunkard) three and one half miles
west of Copeland's Corners, Sunday
evening December 24th, commencing
at seven p. m. A fine program has
been arranged and the public is cor
dially invited to be present. Come!'
rovallv entertained by the company.
The entertainment being visits to the
factory where every operation in the
building of Overland and Willys
Knight cars are shown the visitors;
in going through the finest industrial
office building in the world; in visit
ing the auto-show where all the 1917
models are on exhibition; in attend
ing lectures on the important auto top
ics; and closing with a grand minstrel
show given by talent from the factory
and offices of the company. All visi
tors take their meals in the large cafe
teria in the administration building
where 1000 can partake of a meal at
one tisje, the last dinner being a tur
key dinner.
On Wednesday of last week the
dealers from the Toledo Branch, of
which Robert Gottschalk is a part,
mustered at the local headsuarters and
formed a parade of decorated cars
that will be long remembered by all
(Continued on page 12)
THIS PRACTICAL GIFT STORE
Merry
Merry Xmas
to Everybody
Mount Vernon. Wash.. Dec. 3rd. '16.
Mr frank Hogeboom,
Ue&r i?nend and Schoolmate:
Your welcome letter of November
26 inst. at hand. Well Frank I was
sure happily surprised to receive so
nice a letter from you. -Well Frank
there have been many changes in the
old neighborhood since we were school
boys. Had ones to, but such is life.
Glad to hear you are well. I sure
would like to see you folks once more,"
I am well and very rugged for one of
my age, if I live until March 30, 1917
I will be sixty-two years old. It
doesn't seem possible so many years
have rolled by since we used to go to
school at the old Bayes school house.
You speak of Ed. Mikesell, tell him
I have. not forgotten him and would
Jjike to hear from him. Well Frank I' .
only have three acres of land here
near the Skagit river and three miles
from, the county seat Mount Vernon.
It would take a mighty good job to in
duce me to leave It. 1 have farmed
about three fourths of an acre of it
and raised 4 tons of potatoes, 1
tons of squashes and pumpkins, ton
ot carrots and beets and plenty of
other garden truck, this has been the
poorest Summer I've seen since in
Washington. Now. about the climate
of Puget Sound the Surrems are sure
delightful, no hot sultry weather, the
nights are cool and refreshing, one al
ways needs a woolen blanket and a
light comforter at night, seldom does'
it get colder in winter than eighteen
above zero, the temperature -is seldom
below thirty-five. Winter is short,
many winters one can leave potatoes
in the ground all winter and dig them
in the Spring. This is a great fruit
country for berries of all kinds. Ap
ples, pears, plums, prunes and cher- .
ries. Peaches and grapes do not do
well here in Puget Sound, but east of
the .mountains peaches do .fine. .Ore
gon is a good grape and peach state.
Now about the grain grown here, oats
yield 100 to 190 bushels per acre, 150
to 165 is about the average yield.
Wheat yields around 65 to 80 bushels
per acre. Wheat here is soft and not
used or grinding only used for feed.
Corn grows fine but seldom ripens for
seed, it is used for silage. Now Frank
no doubt that you will think I am tell
ing fishy tales, but come out here and
you will be as surprised as I was. This
Skagit Valley is richer than the fam
ous Nile, the first summer I was here
I planted fifty-seven rods of ground
to potatoes, I got five tons and seven
hundred pounds. The next year I
threshed thirty-eight sacks of barley
one hundred and eight pounds to the
sack, so you see the soil is rich. This
valley is all made soil many places
logs are found fifty feet deep in the
ground; to the east of us are the Cas.
cade foot hills, beyond the mountains
we can on any clear day see the snow
on the Cascade mountains; west of us
is Puget Sound, west of that are the
Olympic mountains, they are always
covered with snow and on a clear
mornteig look . very beautiful. These
mountains have never been explored
because of the deep crevices in the .
ice on the mountains, making it to
dangerous, also the wild animals are
fierce and large. The most daring
hunters avoid the snow covered moun
tains'. The scenic views of this coun
try are surely grand. There are lots
of Ohio people Oiere, also Michigan
people, hone of which ever return to
the east, they don't want to ever en
dure the hot summers or cold winters
of the east again. If sisters Jennie
and Delia were to come and stay one
year here I don't believe they would
ever wish to return to Ohio. -Well now
about the timber and timbering of this
great west, it is all done now by don
key engines and heavy cables and
hauled to the logging railroad and
loaded on the cars by the engine, then
hauled to the rivers and the Sound
and unloaded by the same process,
then in a few years comes the clear
ing of the logged off lands, this is al
so done by the donkey engine and
cable. The cost of clearing and get-'
ting ready for the plow is about $15.00
per acre for slashing $5.00, for burn
ing $80.00 to $125.00 for leveling per
acre. You may judge why the land
sells so high. Now Frank, If I can find
pamphlet or book describing the
work and other things of this country
I will send.jiou one, you spoke -of my
children; the oldest boy George H. is
here near me, at Avon; Clarence and
Dewy are in Montana, the boys own a
section of good land there; 320 acres
each. They are doing well. My daugh.
ter Mary lives ten miles north at
Bow, - Washington. Well, perhaps
this will worry you and maybe I had
better ring off. Give my regards to
all that inquire of me. Tell P. H. is.
to write e a letter. Write again
soon.
Kindest wishes to all,
HARDY or W. H. POCOCK.
1. Why It Is.
2. What It Is.
3. Its Several Possibilities
4. More Possibilities.
1. Christmas marks the birth, commemorates and exemplifies to our posterity the unestimatible heritage from our S uper-Human Maker and
Common Master, 'whose weapons are Public Education," Publicity, Agitation and Reason rather than Wars, Bullets, Boycotting and Force'
2. Christmas, exemplifies the spirit of giving, He gave His life to save the World.
3. All Humanity slowly but surely decapitating before His Teachings; asTaid down in the Greatest Book ever printed. If you were asked to
name the Greatest ifook ever printed your answer would be The Bible.
4. This Store gives its entire Ability, Efforts and Time to secure Reputable Merchandise of Quality for the most Moderate of Prices, thus making
this institution one of the Logical, Desirableyet Equitable Mediums with which you will be pleased to transact business in a degree of no small confidence
To you in quest of Xmas Gift Things this-Store is Dedicated.
Here we offer the widest range of the needful and desirable Gift Things each carefully selected and assembled to expediate your Shopping.
To The Community:
The Spencer-Edgar-Vollmer Company
Wishes To Express A Token of Unswerving JLoyalty, Deep Sincerity and Unlimited Thankfulness for your kindly patronage during the past year 1916.
Where Quahty and Confidence Meet
The Communities Exclusive Dry Goods Service
This' Way For Tdttr Xmas Gift Things
RATING REVISION.
The Wauseon Credit Association
will revise their rating book imme
diately after January 1st. It is neces-.
sary to make a revision of ratings be
cause of the fact that a great many
people have been so fair and prompt
in paying up long standing accounts
that they are entitled to and will have
higher rating. On the other hand
there are a few who ; have made no
effort to take care of their just debts
andjhe rating of such as those will
have to be lowered, unless their ac
counts are settled with the various
merchants by January 1st.
The Association hopes it will not be
necessary to lower the rating of any
but it will be necessary to do so in
a few instances unless prompt settle
ment is made. It should be a matter
of pride with every one to have his
rating raised instead of lowered. 36-2
Danger Signal.
If the fire bell should ring would
you run and stop it or go and. help
put out the fire ? It is much the same
way with a cough. A cough is a
danger signal as much as a fire bell.
You should no more try to suppress
it than to stop a fire bell when- it is
ringing, but should cure the disease
that causes- the cojighing- This can
nearly always be done - by taking
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy. Many
have used it with the most beneficial
results. It is especially valuable for
the persistent cough that so often
follows a bad cold or an attack of
the grip.. , Mrs. Thomas BeechingJ
Andrews,. Ind., writes: "During the
winter my husband takes cold easily
and coughs and coughs- Chamber
lain's Cough Remedy is the best medi
cine for breaking up these attacks and
you cannot get him to take any
other." Obtainable everywhere. '
Our Primroses never were finer for
Christmas. 1
36-2 WAUSEON FLORAL CO,
