OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IN KNOX COUNTY
New Scries: Vol. VII, No. 8.
BARBOURVILLE, KY., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1916.
The First National Bank of
Barbourville Made Famous
By Its Boys Pig Club
$1.00 per Year In AdvancejB
'.hyfin s ''''" 49Bij9V
fir si 'I
WBHHb v
nliHPmBpv Be
,J&
4Jf -'
T
S'
fc2. i
i ' jj
if
Hi,
jri
HON. J. FRED CATRON
To the Voters of the 34th Judicial District of Ky:
After having given the matter due consideration, and having
b3cn solicited by my many friends, I hereby announce myself as a
candidate for the Republican Nomination for the office of Judge of
the 34th Judicial District of Kentucky, subject to the action of the
Republicans, to be decided at the primary to be held August 4th,
1917.
In making this announcement I wish to say that 1 am qualified
to fill this important position, and I realize the fact that the dis
trict is' a very large one, but I will endeavor to see as many of the
.voters as it is possible for me to see, before the election.
I wish to state further, that if nominated and elected, I shall
do my full duty, without fear or favor.
Thanking you in advance for your support, I atn,
Respectfully yours,
J. FRED CATRON.
Case Dismissed.
The pike road right-of-way
suit on the Fighting Creek route
came un in tne County Court this
week, Win. S. Stewart having
filed exceptions to the Road Com
missioners report claimed dam
ages to his land. The case was
tried out on motion of Attorney
for Knox County to dismiss
without prejudice, before agreed
Special Judge Sol T. Steele, and
the motion was sustained and
the suit dismissed. Able argu
ments upon the merits of the
motion were made by counsel on
both sides lasting nearly all day
Thursday and the case created
considerable interest.
BKviB
HON. JAMES S. GOLDEN
To the Voters of Knox County:
I am a candidate for the Republican nomination for tho office of
County Attorney subject to the action of tho Republican party at
the primary to be htkj August 4th, 1917.
,. lHPctfully yours,
A- ' JAMM 8. 0OLD1M.
.v rsATiiiim. ihik!-wki. .,Jiae
, - 'k-,. mmmmk -m
1 mctt t jaL.,cuumj jf i.,0t JKf JM"V7XMBBtA -.
f2sK, ' - r. N !&2t&sB .' ft
HRETiKflkM - rM
' B" BfiPlHy -.11
W. R. LAY. 1
jSBb
About two years ago the First National Bank in order to create
an interest in pure bred hops, bought ten ofhe purest bred Duroc
Gilts and distributed these pure bred gilts free to ten farmer boys
in Knox county and thereby formed the first "Boys Endless Pig
Chain Club" in the United States. The30 gilts had already been.
bred and the Bank was to receive choice of two pigs of each litter.
These pigs were given to other farmer boys and the club was in-
creasea to thirty members. These twenty guts have tounu pigs
and the Bank receives lorty more pigs, which are being distributed
among the farmer boys of Knox county and thereby increasing the
membership of the club to seventy. When these last forty gilts
find pigs the Bank will recieve eighty from these forty gilts and
the membership of the club will by increased to 150 and it will go
forward at this rate of increase, doubling each time until every far
mer boy of Knox county will have an opportunity, to receive one
of these pure bred hogs.
This idea has attracted wide attention throughout the country. '
The leading agricultural journals of the country, bankers, commer
cial clubs, swine breeders associations, business men and farmers '
have taken up and adopted the plan and commented widely upon it.
!)-. I'tml Sferrns in the Christmis number of' tltr '"C'ilZiili
Farmer, an agricultural paper published at'Chicago.'.Ill., devotes
three or four pages of that journal to a writeupof the First National
Bank's Pure Bred Endless Chain Pig Club, giving photographs of I
the bank, the first ten pure bred gilts bought by the bank, also
pictures of Mr. T. F. Faulkner's sons, members of the bank's pig I
club and two of their pigs which won the highest prizes at the j
Knox County Fair and the Kentucky State Fair. The following is '
a part of Mr. Stevens article in the . Itnvricun Farmer ofDcr. 10 J a In announcing my candidacy for the Republican Nomination of t
Out of.the region of Eastern Kentucky has comeanideawhichi.Tiiritre of tho :uth .Tndipi.il Distrint Trios! firat tn thank mvOinndo
j.n v,o iaj uc urn.- ui uic uuok iiuiii. uitwio in wc ouiJi.iuuii.iwfc ui i m iyiiua iiuumy, wiiw mive siuou uv me so loyauy in tne past, it is -the
scrub va with nure bred swine on the farms of that state. It' in vnn thnt. T rve rtvvlit in n lnr mni:nn fnr. tho uttia o..,, t t'
il. ! fit. ,7 ! J I . , V in i ."-n-.- ...... ...wi...-t.iv. u. int. i.n,v. OV.V.V.WCO i t
la uic iuuu ui ine nniiivs likiui appiieu louoys pig ciuu wortv. rure nave auainea. -sl
Drea guts are supplied tree to tne pig ciuo uoy oy tnerirstwation- To the voters ot the entire district, I desireto say that I am
al Bank of Barbourville. These pure bred gilts are being bred to! not unmindful of the vast importance the proper filling of this office
pure bred males. The bank to receive two pigs from each litter and J is to you.
these in turn are given by the bank free to other boys and the club j I know that we have not yet reached the millennium, and that
grows in this way by leaps and bounds. The pig club boys, many i there is yet in the land the disposition on the part of, some at least,
of whom are unable to purchase pure bred stock, are always keen of the strong to oppress the weak, and of, some at least, of the
to accept these fine pigs from the bank, realizing the great advant- rich to oppress the poor, and of the criminally inclined to annoy,
age pure bred pigs will afford in their efforts to win a county onamp- j disturb ahd harrass the more morally inclined of the people. And
ionship. The emoluments of this honor includes, in addition to the with this knowledge and belief leading me, I shall stand for a
SQUARE DEAL to everyone, regardless of race, sex or social
standing. And, if elected to this honorable position, I shall so
hold my courts that the most humble as well as the most exalted
can auproach this tribunal with the full faith, that in so far as the
Circuit Judge can go, he will give to him an absolutely SQUARE $&
DEAL.
And upon this declaration, I earnestly solicit your support, and ;
subscribe myself,
Very truly yours.
W. R. LAY,
HON.
LAY.
m
I
prizes, a trip to the Kentucky State Fair, with railroad fare and
all personal expenses paid, free transportation for the, prize pigs,
free entry fees and exhibit pens.
Master Elmer Faulkner, a son of T. F. Faulkner a merchant
of Barbourville and a member of the First National Bank boys pig
club, won the highest prize at-the Kentucky State Fair in Septem
ber 1916, for the best six month old pig in Kentucky. Eighty-three
other pigs were in competition against his. Another one of the
bank's pig club boys won the highest prize for the best six month
old boar in Kentucky at the State Fair. Some of the boys of the
club have already realized several hundred dollars from the gilts
given to them by the bank. The latest live stock census shows
that Kentucky had 1,709,000 hogs on January 1st 1916 and that the !
average value was $9.50 per head. The stock of the pig club boys i The Normal Department cf
had an average value of about $25.00 per head and many of the an-! Union College will open for the
Union College News
In v ams n r rs4 rj 1 r V m a l . -JbJ ..J11 ..
imaia wcic csuuiaicu tu uc wuiui one uunuruu uoilurs.
To J. M. Robsion, president, and Robert W. Cole, cashier of the
First National Bank of Barbourville, Knox county, Kentucky, and
Wm. Tye, county agricultural agent of the same county are due the
creait ior applying tne enaiess cnain idea to the problem of intro
ducing purebred swine. Messrs. Robsion and Cole's bank purchas
ed ten pure bred Duroc gilts in the spring of 1915, they were the
first pure bred pigs to be introduced in the county, which indicated
that it was a virgin field for such work. The gilts were distributed
to pig club boys and have since brought fame to Knox county.
From this inception the movement has spread rapidly and its pre
sent acce'eration is almost as great as its rate of compounding.
It has been adopted by commercial clubs, swine breeders asso
ciations, bankers and other business men, and has been given the
hearty cooperation of thousands of farmers. More than $00,000
worth of pure bred pigs were distributed in this way last spring
by Kentucky bankers. A partial list of organizations and institu
tions in Kentucky have followed the lead of the First National Bank
of Barbourville includes; Business Men's Association, London; Far
mers National Bank, Princeton; Commercial Club, Louisville; Ken
tucky Bank and Trust Company, Madisonville; Business Men's As
sociation, Hopkinsville; Lewisburg Bank, Lewisburg; Swine brood-
ers Association, Henderson; Farmers National Bank. Cvnthania:
First National Bank, Manchester: State National Bank. Frankfort;
Farmers Bank. Independence; Cadiz Bank, Cadiz; Jackson Couthy
Bank, McKee: Owsley County Deposit Bank, and many others.
The impetus given by the endless chain movement has had a
tremendous effect on pig club work in Kentucky. Mr. Otis Ker
cner, agent in the animal industry for the State of Kentucky, and
who is in charge of the work anticipates that boy's pig clubs will
be organized in at least eighty of the 120 counties in Kentucky next
Bpnng. tnis movement started by the First National Bank of
Knox county, has spread rapidly throughout the United States."
The above is a part of the few articles appearing in the lead-
ing, farm journals, business and bank periodicals in the United
States concerning the boys pig club started in Knox county. Tho
management of tho First National Bank nnd Mr. Win. Tye. tho
county agricultural agent, should bo congratulated by the farmers
and business men of tho county and the farmers should cooperate
in this work. This bank organized a girls poultry club and has ar-
Jan.
have gone forth over the county
and are teaching splendid schools.
And we hear glowing reports
from superintendents of other
counties, telling of the success of
next tor1 1 on the second of
We are very much pleased with ' our students, m passing exami
the results of our last term's work ! nations, and as teachers in their
Quite a number of our students schools,
were fortunate enough to merit ' We surely are proud of the re-
first class certificates, and they
(.Continued on page JO
H. B. CLARK, CiMtt
I
I
I
1
I
I
'wVwwVC SaH
W. R. LAY, Acting PrcstdnU
'!'
I
i
1
V
!
I
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF JOHN A. BLACK.
"ARofl of Honor Bank?
Gipital and Surplus More Than $65,000.00
Cash Reserve, $120,14434
Stockholders Worth More Than $2,500,(00.00
I
A checking account with this institution
you a standing in your community.
A saving account with it earns money for you
while you sleep.
Safty Boxes for rent at $1.50 per year.
gives MHtihm
iHi
KyKfH
mr . m m m
m9
fc-- "1 T . T- 4 V "V W a V jH f Ihfl
Sj 5 Interest raid Un 1 lme Deposits, wfim
(Continued on pafe three,)
.. .. , .Kjiicfim wnS
. i C'
ras&S
m iMnfi niiiiiiiriiriiWinmMfcmE1'
mm -wfc i i (ft ittw 4MrtMNMMwjfeM
