THE TEN GAZETTE
Gazette P.bl ing Company, Ltd. Official Paer Sc l Beard amd F`t Laia la Diuri.
NEW SERIES.VOL. XXVI I ANA, FRIDAY, DECMBER 22, 1 6. NUNDUX 12
PROFSSIONAL CARDS
DR I. A. MURDOCK
St. Joseph, La.
Physiha and Surgeon
0o ea Flank Read.
Oies Pheas 1224; Reeldenoe 1S
LC I!. M.D. a. To .M- a
DR. LILLY AND TRICS
Seinaesers t DrM XAlL7 & Adam:
St. Jooph, Loadsk
Qaoe, Bank Bldg., up stairs.
G. H. CLINTON
Attorney-at-Law
ST. JOSEPH, LA.
W practo In East Carroll. Madleim
Teases, Concordia. and the Supreme
sad Federal Courts.
DR. GEORGE N. CLARK
Dentist
ST. JOSEPH,. - LOUISIANA
m Newell Belding, Plank Road
W. D. NOBLE, M. D.
Phyeoleon and Sur geo
Office Phone No. 25.
Resldence Phone No. 1L
NWWILLTON, - - LOUISIANA
THOMAS M. WADE, JR.
Attorney-st-Law
WI prsa tin Teeses and adled
I Pariuhes, the supreme Court a4
bN State and the Federal Cea e
Reans negotlated em real estate
fe. JOSEPH, * - LOUISIANA
NATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY
Ceonetonea and Sweets
Of All Klnds.
CANDIES, CAKES. ICE CREAML
WE O8LICIT
WEDDING AND PARTY
ORDERS
Or Restaurant is now open sad e0
earvlo is unexoelled.
NATCHEZ CONFECTIONERY.
NATCHEZ. . MISSISSIPPt.
STR. "SENATOR CARDIL'"
0G0. PRINCE. Master
O. LWILDS. @e- t
NA EZ & VICKSBURG
PACKET
Iewes Natabes Sundays. Tueam..S
ad Thursdays at m asoo.
Leaves Vicksburg Modayls, We
meedays sad Fridays at noes, er ea
trval t eampress tai
J. k;. Lilly, M. M. Joseph Whitaker. h. L).
Phone 70 Phone 71
DRS. LILLY & WHITAKER
Physicians and Surgeoas
IT. JOSEPH, LOUISIANA
Omce. Bank Building, Upstairs
Phone 34-J.
A. J. KISNER, M. D.
Specialist
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
GLASSES FITTED
(Eucceseor to R. C. French)
002t MAIN STREET
Natchez, - - Mississippi
O. M. FOWIER
Surveyor
312 ARLINGTON AVE.
I Natchez, - Mississippi
PHONE NO. 502
I effer my services to the Tensa
public, and will be glad to answer
ealls by mail or wire.
Tho.. M. Wade, Jr.. President
GP. Bullis, Vice [President.
THE TENSAS ABSTRACT CO.
(Incorporated)
ST. JOIEPH. LOUISIANA
Complete and correct Abstracts or
Titl. of atll Tetisas I at .h la nd., madi
from r. ',rds of Unttt.d States. Statr,
and ri, it. ntnd veinled with origiza,
Good hard
Americano dol
lar grow on the
nadvertising tree.
TI!! PAP&PER G S tD. RFSIILTS
Sale If you intend
Bills 'g"'"
PRINTED
Weare fixed for tuning
cut work of this kin
in CUblc-quick time.
1TW
Some Things They Ask in Gotham Railway Stations
NEW Yo 'IL.--I. it a:I, \wilonder that the information clerk's In the railroad
stations talk in thir sleep? The questions they are compelled to answer
at times would indli:it that the public who travel go clear off their "burner." C
At the Grand Central station the other U
- s day a man approached the Information i
LSURE TAT bureau and Inquired, "What time does P
TRAil WitL the train I came in go back?"
S - Astv on Ilad the clerk replied as he felt, e
TIME ? ICAMIT he Imight have said as soon as the wa- y
HAS AfY ter colers were refilled or the engi- 0
AIgn ABOT u - r wneer had rested. But instead he re- 0
marked that more than 200 trains ar- a
rive daily, and asked. "Where did you
come from?" "Springfield, Mass.," II
L/-. said the man, and then he was in- S
formed when the next train would ii
leave for that city. A woman asked if she could rely on a certain train reach- 0
Ing Chicago on time. Upon being informed that it usually kept to schedule, P
she said: "I can't have any guesswork about this. I want a definite answer.
I can't afford to miss connections in Chicago." Asked if it were customary h
for the expresses to make up lost time, the clerk said that they tried to do o
so, but sometimes failed. "Well, it's a mighty queer way to run a railroad," o
was the caller's parting shot.
"I'm going up to Vermont," said a woman: "what Is the best train to
take?" There are three roads into Vermont, and the clerk inquired, "What a
place in Vermont. tlaudam? "Say. have they got you here to ask questions 0
or to answer them?" was her retort. Yet it is claimed there are no informa- 1
tion clerks in any of the sanatoriums.
t
Father Knickerbocker's Spending Money for 1917
NEW YORK.-Manhattan island was bought from the Indians for $24 worth
of trinkets. It will cost $211,115,015 for the city's upkeep in 1917. Father
Knickerbocker was granted this spending money the other day. Never in New f
York's history, nor in that of any other k
municipality, has such a tremendous o
outlay been required. Yet the total
represents economy, hbspeaks eftici- C
ency, as city experts know it nowa
days. The budget makers spy it rep- I
resents cost paring to a degree almost
unsafe. f
Not a cent less would be sufficient
for the health, safety, comfort and
happiness of Pa Knickerbocker's five a
.tul a half million children, they as- I
Bert. An, -oIry 1jdgert--.:,.. !ib t
comprised within the city limits. It Is a wonderf , document, the city budget.
It is a sailing chart for Father Knickerbocker. It is a curb on his naturally
luxurious habits. Within it is set forth what he is to pay to his policemen, to
his firemen and to his army of civil servants.
To the cent it is designated how the entire $211,000,000 is to be expended.
So much for protection, the budget says, so much for sanitation, so much for
recreation, so much for physical comforts, so much for the enjoyments that
come to the mind. It would be less, the budget makers tell, were it not for
the wild oats that Pa Knickerbocker sowed in his youth.
This condemnation is contained in the debt service item, the largest In
the budget. It is stipulpted that $69,744.568.95 shall be paid on account of
the debt that the old Dutch daddy rolled up. This total debt is $1,475,572,
596.38. t
Hiawatha Still the King in Minnehaha Falls Park
INNEAPOLIS.-Long live the king I Hiawatha, patriarch bull elk of Minne
M haha Falls, still is czar of his herd. The annual autumnal battle for I
supremacy In the park elk herd has been fought between Hiawatha and the
pretender, strongest of the younger 1
t/ bulls in the herd, and Hiawatha pro
( claimed victor.
Such is the rule of elkdom. To I
the strongest goes the scepter. For a E
((, year the biggest and most powerful I
bull rules the herd. During the sum- t
mer the other bulls foregather alone. 1
C i With the first frosty days of fall comes
1 the annual battle for the throne. 1
When the parkkeeper turned the
..two herds together-the king and his
does on one side and the assemblage
of bachelor bulls on the other--Hlawatha looked up and braced himself to
take his part. Out in advance of his brethren charged a powerful bull, pre
tender to the throne, younger and more agile, but several pounds lighter than
the patriarch.
Straight toward Hiawatha came the challenger. Straight at the chal
lenger charged the king, with lowelred head.
Hlalfway between the two groups the warriors met with a clang of antlers
that echoed through the gorge. For 30 minutes, with horns locked, they bat
tied back and forth. Each was trying for the energetic twist of head and
neck that would throw his rival to the ground. Had either been successful in
this it would have tried to gore its adversary to death.
Then the skill born of many previous battles came to the old master's aid.
With a sudden lunge he pushed the challenger back 50 feet. Three times he
nearly succeeded in felling him with clever twisto of horns and head. Three
times the challenger saved himself in the nick of time. After the last escape
the youngster, aware that he was beaten, scampered headlong down the gorge.
liucling defiance and scorn at the worsted rival, Hiawatha returned to
the htrd. The other bulls, true to elk nature, timidly joined him, deserting
their late champion. Hiawatha is secure upon his throne at least until the
fall of 1917.
Nothing Doing at Chicago's Municipal Woodpile
HICAGO.-There has been no grand fall opening at the municipal lodging
house on North Union avenue this year. The city's pile of uncut railroad
ti s is dally growing higher. For the first time since the municipal "flop" was
opened the building was empty at the
frst real touch of winter weather.
The lodging house owners are the
hardest hit by the good times. Many
of them complain that, while tsually
at this time of the year their places
are tilled to capacity and they have to
turn mien away,. at present, despite the
cold snap, less than half of their beds
are occupicl. *
W. J. Anderson, assistant superin
tendent at the municipal lodging house, . * - '
who had made an investigation of
lodging-house conditions at the instigation of Dr. W. K. Murray of the health
department. repolrted that pr.osperity is the reason why hundreds of men were
not knocking at the doors of the building for admittance.
In the iuuntitilal ,lodging house thtere are 500 beds, but the structure is
darkened and thbrt- is no sign of life about the place. Usually at this time of
the year the place is filled. As many as 3.500 men have been cared tiu n two
additional houses, which in other years the city had to rent.
At h.be municipal woodpile no wood has been cut in many weeks.
BASIS s
CEidENT
es His Clerks
y Each One
Worth.
DISCARD v
ac
Makes Little es
Results Rev.
enditions in
t Offices. A.
r Tucked away on the third floor back Ie
of a rented building In Washington is tk
Uncle Sam's bureau of efficiency. An al
n inconspicuous sign on the ground floor si
., proclaims its occupancy of space in the in
building. Not many outside the gov- e(
ernment have heard of it, for it is a
- young bureau, a little over three years ly
- old. Another reason for its inconspicu- II
ousness in the public eye is the way it W
advertises. Since its organization it
u has spent about $20, all told, for print- m
Ing reports. To help put the United e7
2. States government on a business basis i
d is its purpose, an eminently practical ai
one, which it goes at in an eminently CI
practical way.
. One of the first things the bureau c
"y had to do was to help work reason out
to of chaos in the office of the treasurer
of the United States. Just before the
present administration came in, a
o "punch card" system of totaling checks
and balances was introduced in this "
office. It was a very pretty thing to
a- look at, but was not practicable. The
bookkeeper, who had been accustomed
to posting an item from a check direct,
where it was marked in ink, had to
puzzle his brain over a lot of holes in
a card, each hole meaning a different
number. This plan took so much longer
time that the treasurer's office was
er snowed under. Men had to be called
from all of the subtreasuries to help
keep up to date, and even then $50,000,- i
000 in checks piled up unentered on the 8'
desks.
Effect $100,000 Saving.
This was the situatibo that met John e
Burke, the new treasurer, coming from t
far-off North Dakota, in April, 1915. He '
and Deputy Assistant Treasurer Thiel p
put their wits to work to find a way e
out. Thiel suggested that they call in ,
Herbert D. Brown, who was chief of ,
the new burse of e elaecy. ]rews
heeded their Macedonian cry and went
to work. After a few weeks' Investiga
to tion, planning and conferences the efli
ciency men and the treasurer's men
were able to work out a plan. As a
d result of this the back accounts were
or cleaned up, the "punch card" thrown
rt into the discard and in a few weeks the
or subtreasury men went back to their
posts. The system is now worked so
in that the treasurer's office can do its
of work with about eighty less clerks, and I
2,- an annual saving of about $100,000 in g
this one place alone has been effected. s
This is an example of the way the u
k new bureau does its business. So far
it has had control over the treasury
and post office departments more than
Je- the others. A large part of its work
ror has been putting the clerks in these t
he departments on an efficiency basis.
rer Each clerk In these two departments
ro- has an "efficiency rating." By this he
is promoted or demoted. If he is a
To shirker and does not do a fair quantity
a and quality of work his rating Is likely
tul to be cut. There is no guesswork
m- about the rating, which Is worked out
[e. by a new kind of "efficiency algebra"
ies devised by the bureau. Investigators
in the two departments go over the I
he work of each man thoroughly to re
his valuate it, and report to their chiefs.
ige Old System Unfair to Clerks.
to The burean has prepared some inter- I
eating charts, derived from data on
an government clerks' ages, wages and
work, before the Introduction of this
al- system and after. The graph line of t
raising wages for the clerks under the
r old system shows that it was a tedious
at- process then, although the quality and
nd amount of work rose rapidly in the I
in early years of their connection with I
the government. When they had been
Id. connected with a department for
he many years and their work was be- i
gee ginning to deteriorate, their wages be
Lpe gan to rise.
ge. As it is now, however, a compara
to tive chart shows their salaries are
lag raised much more rapidly at first, and
theare more in accord with their worth to
the government. "We are making abil
Ity and not length of tenure the test
Sof salary," Chief Brown declared.
1 "This is a work which is much needed.
The young man should have a chance 1
ing to advance in government work as in
ad every other."
ras Congress evidently has been pleased
with the results obtained by the bu
reau, for last session it ordered all
clerks in all executive departments in
the District of Columbia be put under
the "efficiency rating" plan. This
means that some 24,000 government
clerks will be put on a merit basis of
pay and promotion.
STen Months of American Shipbuilding.
S The bureau of navigation, depart
S meat of commerce, reports 968 sall
ing, steam, gas and unrigged vessels
Lith of 405,894 gross tons built in the Unit
ere ed States and omcially numbered dur
ing ten months of calendar year 1916.
is In addition there were built for for
iof elgners 36 wooden vessels of 372 gross
two tons and 11 steel vessels of 25,418
gross tons, total, 47 vessels of 25,790
grosa tons.
SAVES WlAN VILLA
Udcle Sam Converts Settle nt
Into National Monument.
Beet Specimens of Totem Poles and
Haida Architecture Found In
Abandoned Alaskan Town.
Uncle Sam has made a national mon
ument out of an old deserted Indian
village in"Alaska. The "Old Kassan
National Monument" consists of 38
acres within the Tongass national for
est and embraces the Haida Indian
village of Old Kassan, situated on
Prince of Wales island in southeastern
Alaska.
The village was abandoned by the
Indians about ten years ago. Among
the relies which remain there are
about fifty Indian totem poles, five or
six of which are classed as exceed
ingly good specimens. In the desert
ed village there are also eight large
square buildings which were original
ly constructed according to the pecu
liar plan of the Haida Indians, and
which, it is stated by those best qualil
flied to know, represent the best speci
mens of Halda architecture that now
exist. The largest of these buildings
is approximately 40 by 00 feet in asio
and is made entirely of round at I
carved timbers. There also remain a
number of Indian graves with the typi
cal small grave houses erected by the
Alaskan Indians.
"Kassan" is said to be the Indian
word which means "a pretty town," and
all reports agree that the village was
well named. The fact that the village
was occupied by the Indians for many
years explains the local name, "Old"
Kassan, by which it is widely known.
Since the village was abandoned by
the Indians the buildings have been
rapidly falling into a state of dilapida
tion and decay, and a certain amount
of vandalism by tourists and souvenir
hunters renders some form of protec
tion essential. An examination of the
area was made jointly by representa
tives of the forest service and of the
interior department, and reports
strongly urging the establishment of a
qational monument were approved by
the secretaries of both departments,
The Smithsonian institution strongly
endorsed the proposition for the es
tablishment of a national monument.
The new national monument will be
protected and administered by the for
est service, as is the case with all
monuments located within the Inatesml
AMERICANS WIN ON QUALITY
Have Built Up Trade in South Amer.
ica by Excellence of Products,
Says Commercial Attache.
Quality is emphasized as the die
tinguishing characteristic of American
hardware in a report by Commercial
Attache Albert Hale on hardware mar
kets in Argentina, Uruguay and Para
guay. "Upon this sales factor," he
says, the American manufacturer can
most surely depend for success."
Mr. Hale states that during the past
year the sales of this class of goods
from the United States have increased
rapidly in Argentina, and that it Is
thought that much of the increased
trade will be retained after the war.
He finds that American hardware man
ufacturers are now reaping their re
ward for having built up in Argentina
an unsurpassed reputation for their
products. Germany and England have
outsold Americans to some extent in
this market in the past, but almost al
ways by Introducing cheaper articles.
The normal imports of hardware into
Argentina are between five and six mil
lion dollars, the total for 1918 being
$5,771,145. Of this total Germany sup
plied $1,848,807 worth, England $1,
365,709 worth, and the United 8tates
$1,211,0907 worth.
"To be on the spot," says Mr. Hale,
S"is the only way to understand this
market. The demand is constantly
I changing, and the tendency is to par
chase better tools and hardware. This
tendency has been especially notice
Iable during the pest two years, and
much of it is due to the Inlauence of
better grades from the United 8tates.
Therefore the manufacturer should not
try too hard to meet competition on
the basis of price. He should sell
Squality."
NATIVE ALASKAN RACE SAVED
Introduction of Modern Methods of
Sanitation by Uncle Sam Checks
Ravages of Disease
Uncle Sam has succeeded In check
ing the ravages of disease among the
natives of Alaska. A Lew years ago
Sit was feared that the native race of
Alaska would soon die out but this
I danger has been eliminated by the in
troduction of modern methods of san
ltation and medical treatmeL The
Swork has pen carried on largely
Sthrough the bureau of education of the
Sdepartment of the interior with the
t aid of special appropriations made by
congress.
The government has recently opened
a well-equipped hospltal at Juneau for
. native patients, and small hospitals
- are maintained at three other centers
- of native population. A number of
Sphysicians and nurses have been erm
- ployed for service in hospitals and in
maintaining sanitary conditions in na
. tive villages, and the teachers of the
United States public schools in Alaska
a are supplied with medicines and medi
8 cal books to enable them, In the ab
0 sence of a physiciana, to treat minor
Ialments.
EDISON'S
LATH STYLE CABNIN-r-OWN S
PBONOGRPH
ls Dhmd UsPRedame sd te Ee AIrnberd Reeg
Te s.... mer...l ..er d Los o aotIo l la..tsMetS.
Whaon -hk4 wlit the lamua Dliamod Repreoa s the tlem
a wet at th ae laal mi ae mo althutall,ý rSt si
Mo uwoaes I. b ee from m.ohmloal quality. Ctalg P1M
JOiNSTOwNS CHOCOLATES HAVE BECOME INTERNATIONAL
FAVORITES, AND ARE RECOGNIZED AS TNH
WORLD'S FINEST CONFECTIONS.
Some of the Meet Popular kSeller Aroe
SINOVATIONS SWEET, TRIAD, QUINTETTE,
MALTED MILK, CHOCOLATE BRAZIL NUTS IN CREAMK
THAT PACKAGE, EXTRAORDINARY, LW
Pat up in dainty packages, from 80 to $5.00.
Hugo Jereslaw,
WVWELLTON, - . . - LOUIAA
Hot Springs, Ark.
m .E NATION'S FASHIONABLE PLAYGROUND
NATURE' GREATESTT SANITARIUM
QUICKEST TIME AND BEST SERVICE
I A
.---IRON MOUNTAIN---.
Per Pull Information as to Sheduleo, Rata, Eta., or for Peao
lmutrated Booklet, So Your Local ThIt Agent, or wrI*
A.G.P.A.
Mleah Fleaut Jr. Cu00910m
Wlesheeter Arm CO.
1-tl aw- C HARROWS
Howo Sal.o
bmith A Woeson Revelwr
Mlbure " Hiokma. WaeoIn
-,." """ -«." CUTIVATORS
Vulva" Plow o..
I I osa Bugl OO
Nol n. Plow Cg.
"t -'*l*ue C* PLOW GEAR
stMea wmey whe C.
LEWIS HOFFMAN .COMPWN
CO MPANY
mock . - Vieh r, Mis.
Thos. J. Holmes,
Tin and Shlct Iron Worker,
LSPEDEmZA SEED PA. M FOR SALn
by the use of this paI attadhed to the atter bar
' of Mowing Machine, y ma es~e from one to tw
bushels of seed to the aar
NatO Xher-, MiDslm.
]Lu ll t heInt ofaios t a uBst-esk ot.1
m 3a2m UBRO, BAIT EOOMS, AND AM EXCUfLWI
ul s ,ar r Ion Am,,
Ahveio utepp ph. hBr Tr poe
Are You Going to Build?
a o eary out the Me unde the moes hrmQulo omdImm
b sod gu cheu tho lb rered f, ltbo ppsss.
C(1B am a. We make a speciaty o la I lm a TYeo Pw P
Flora. Always jet our pries m investigate ar
.....efore ..la .ing y r ... .-d
L A. ENOCHS, The Lumberman
NATCazN, MIss
JOB PRINTIN'GT We oa doe er
Httle cheaper tim te otaber fellow. Wedding invitatioms. laser hea b biLad
m ale billk, teme.o dodgers. car ae., ml reseive the same careil treMi
-- a lise eSir tShea seem uessarm . Psmps dery alwas,
I I
