ytyKLFTH YEAR. No. 27.
notice of hearing of applica.
tion for franchise.
In tlie matter oi the application of the
fat Okanogan V alley Irrigation District
~ t (nmehise authorising ami permitting
the said applicant, to place, erect and
laihtuin polos, wiles and other necessary
,-pllanors ami conductors and to" lay un
wgiouml wires for the transmission of
iectrlvity for telephone purposes in. upon
,„i liver the streets, avenues, alleys and
Millie highway oi the Town of Oroville,
IfcMMtmi vom.iv .•Mile ..1 Washington.
,ml lo exorcise the prlvllige of operating
telephone instruments and doing telephone
:, as mess In said town of Oroville.
Pursuant to a lesolutlon duly passed
jd entered hy the town council of the
town of Orovdlo on the 11th day of De
tmiper, Dio. nndei ordinance No. 2 s of
aid Town, and ordinance No. r.-i amen,
iitory thereof;
.Notice is hen he given that tlie lioarlng
,u the aforesaid application for a fran.
hise to use In- streets, alleys and public
paces nl the Town of Oroville, to locate,
Liisliie t. use and maintain telephone line
„ said town, has been set for S:3O p. m.
m the Itii day of .Palmary. 11117, at the
,Miirll chambers in the town ball of Oro
flle. at which time and place all persons
interested hi the aforesaid application
JSJ- appear, object to and sirow cause it
mv they have, why said application shall
y,( be granted.
the following is a true copy of tlie
proposnl frsiui his.* ordinance:
Ordinance No.
An ordinal a •• granting to the West Ok.U
itjgan Valley Irrigation District a corpora
iMi its successors ami assigns the tight to
llace. orei i ami maintain poles, wires and
iher appliances ami conductors, and to
Uy underground wires for the transmis.
>ton of elfctricliy lot telephone purposes,
in ami upon ami under the streets, alleys
t venues and puhllc highways in the town
of Oroville, Stale of Washington, and to
ewrctee the privilige of operating tele,
poone Instruments in. and doing a tele
phone business in said Town of Oroville.
slate 01 Washiin;ton.
Be it ordered hv the Town t'oimcll cf
tta Town of Oroville, as follow*
Section I—Thei** is lieieby granted hy
the Tow nof Oroville to the West oka.
m*&m Vallex Irnaatmn Dislilff. i i*«
poratlon. Its sm - • "*<• and xhMkii*. the
rlfht and I*rlVila;. to do a telephone bus*
M&> within I. «• i ox* n »f Drovillc. ami to
place ami erect. i«> m iln» »id o/oiiuh
;n. upon un< iDx a /
nues, thorourh! ii • > md public h‘c.«-,.v.
within the sa‘d town, poles, wire? ai 4
other appliances and conduc tors for the
tunambslon ot electricity' for telephone
purposes but wherever practicable such
pole* and other fixtures above ground
shall he erected in the alleys of said town. 1
Such wires and appliances and conductors
may be strung uikmi poles or other tlx.
lures above ground, or at the option of the .
pantee. its successors and assigns, may I
be laid underground in pipes or conduits
« otherwise protected, and such othei
apparatus may be used as may be neces.
Mry or propci to operate and maintain
toe tame.
Section 2—lt shall he lawful for said the
Test Okanogan Valley Irrigation District.
■Mjccessors and assigns to make all
needful excavations in any of such
itroett, alleys, avenues and public high
ways in said 'Town of Oroville, for the
puipose of placing, erecting laying and
maintaining poles or other supports, con
duits or conductors for said wires, or for
repairing renewing or replacing the same.
Said work shall be done in compliance
with the necessary rules, regulations, ordi.
Mnces or orders which may during the
continuance ».i tins franchise, be adopted
from time to time by the Town of Oro.
rule. |
3.- Whenever the West Okano
B* Valley Irrigation District, its sue-
Xora ami assigns, shall disturb any ot
Hytaw's..*'.'' •>!.; -rpozo .i/oresalu, ii
inall restore tfTe same to good or
KHI condition as soon us practicable
(luoat unnecessary delay, and lulling to
*>l°,.tlie Town or Oroville shall have th<
Jnt to fix a reasonable time within
■Jjcn such repairs and restoration ol
•rota shall be completed, and upon fail,
jj* of such repairs being made by said
Jjltrlct. Us successors or assigns. the
town of Oroville shall cause such repairs
to be made at the expenses of said Ti’.r
*<*t Okanogan Valley Irrigation District,
'to Success,,,-s or assigns.
Section 4.—.Nothing In this ordinance
well be construed in any way to prevent
oje proper authorities of the Town of
Oroville from sewering, grading, planking,
rocking, paving, repairing, altering or Im
proving nnv of the streets, alleys, ave
nues and public highways within the Town
»( Oroville lu or upon which the poles,
vires or other conductors ot said District
•hall be placed, but all such work or Im.
Provements shall he done. If possible so as
•ot to obstruct or prevent the free use of
aid poles, wires, conductors, conduits,
pipes or other apparatus.
Section s.—ln consideration of this fran.
tolse ati l l the rights and privlllges herein
rontalncil The West Okanogan Valley ir
rigation District, Its successors and as-
Ugns. gives and grants to the Town of
Oroville, without charge, the right and
prlvlllsre to suspend and maintain upon the
poles placed by the said grantee, its sue.
tenors or assigns, in the treets, alleys
tvenues and public highways aforesaid,
my and all wires for its the alarm, police
telephone service. Said district further
igrees to indemnify and save harmless
the said town of Orovllle of and from any
»nd all damages. expenses, costs and
charges and against all such loss and li
ability that may be caused to any person
or persons by reason of the negligence of
said district in selling or placing its poles
wires, conductors or other apparatus, or
far Its failure or negligence in maintain
ing or requiring the same.
fcectiqn •;—The rights and privileges
utd franchises herein granted shall con
tinue and he in force for the period of
twenty .five (25) years from and after the
Me of the passage of tills publication. <
Section 7.—This ordinance shall take
tffcct and he in force from and after its
Wage and publication.
E. U. MOOSE. Clerk
•8BAL)
First publication Dec. 15, 1916.
SHERIFF’S SALE,
. Under and by virtue of an order of sale
jMued out of the Superior Court of the
State of Washington, holding terms at
Okanogan. Washington, in and for Oka
nogan county on the 9th day of Decembei,
1916 and to me directed and delivered for
if Judgment rendered in said court on the
Hh day of December A. D. 1916, In favor
Elmer .1 Wilt and against L. L. Cline
jnd Mary Cline, Irvin Cline, Bert Cline,
b>ra Cline, Elmer Cline and Eddie (Mine,
minor heirs of said L. L. Cline and Lora
A- Cline, his wife, now deceased, for the
turn of one thousand one hundred fifty
fwt and thirtv-elght one hundreths dol
*«■» together with costs of suit and inter.
•*t. I have ied on all the right, title.
c «dm and interest of said defendant ot.
n and to the following property, to.wit:
The west half of the northwest quarter.
? be aoutheost quarter of the northwest
I‘itrter and the northeast quarter of the
JHUhwest quarter of section ten. township
Nrty-flve north of range twenty-eight.
E W. M in Okanogan county. Washing
l°a. containing 160 acres according to
Hjemment survey. • .
Notice Is hereby given that on the loth
of January A. D 1917. at 10 o’clock
i-H. of said day. I will sell all the right.
W* and interest of said L. L. Cline and
fwy Cline. Irwin Cline. Bert Cline. Lora
Elmer Cline and Eddie Cline, minor
Jfta of said L. L. Cline and Lora Cline
.*** wife, now deceased, or eather of them
lri and to Mi,• above described property, or
•nwch thereof as mnv l>e necessary to
W plaint ill' -Inlm. besides all costs,
•ntercet and ■ ruing costs. The sale will
2** place at the front door of the Court
nouse, at Okanogan. In Okanogan county,
’'njUngtmi, at public auction, fur cash in
r *nd, to the highest and best bidder.
rnted at Okanogan. Okanogan county
pMitlngton. this Mb day of December,
*• D, 191(1,
». HARUY E. STATIK.
J" e dff of Okanogan county, Washington.
L"- ti. BI.ACKSTONB. Deputy.
Jut publication December 18, 1918-,
* P he public should not overlook th?
that the Orovllle band is to cele
the coming of the new year with
a Pand ball Monday night. January
j 1 HIT. Jt is a benefit dance, too, and
that reason every lover of the pas
in the oinnninity should attend
contribute, the’r might toward a
worthy eniiso. .
nrfrf TTTTTT*
31 XZA ■ i UMttJl IL I /Cvrr Wa \\\\// * I 4 SsW MiiwuuniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniirmiiiiiiiiiiiramiiMiiiniiiiiiiiiißiuiaiiimia
I-ast Friday evening,j juts t as the
train from Spokane pulled in, the roar
of the siren Jerked the population into
the streets, and an angry glow in t lie
extreme southern pan of town Indi
cated where the annihilating element
was getting in its work. By the aid of
autos the hose carts were hauled to
the scene and two well directed
streams of water soon had the flames
under control, but not until the build
ing was completely gutted and all the
contents destroyed. The department
did splendid work in preventing the
spread of the fire to adjacent buildings
one of which was not a dozen feet
from the burining structure.
The residence destroyed was owned
and occupied by .las. H. Holmes, and
the loss is partially covered by insur
ance. Mr. and Mrs. Holmes left a
fire in one of those sheet iron stoves
known as a Queen, while they visited
with nearby neighbors. The fire un
doubtedly caught from the stove, am
when discovered had made such head
way that it was impossible to enter
the building and save any of the fur
niture, all of which was a total loss
Among the articles lost were a num
bei of valuable pictures, while Mr.
Holmes lost a number of heirlooms of
no great intrinsic, value, but which
he set much store upon and which can
never be replaced.
R. A. Jackson was a visitor at We
natchee over Sunday, going to that city
for the purpose of meeting J. M. Mcln
tyre, adjuster for the Brootherhood of
Railway Trainmen, a benevolent or
ganization of which Mr. Jackson is a
member. Mr. Jackson was very severe
ly injured in a railway accident over a
year ago, which incapacitated him for
active work for months and from the
effects of which he has not wholly re
covered and has benefits duo him un
der the laws of the Brotherhood. Both
the local and grand lodge and several
doctors have reported favorably upon
Mr. Jackson's claim and it may be
settled soon.
In the Justice Court of Loomis Precinct
Loomis. Okanogan county. State of Wash.
Ington, before at. H. Smith, J. I*.
The Northern Assurance Company, Lim.
lied, a Corporation. Plaintiff.
vs
T. L. Irwin, defedant, Summons,
To T. 1,. Irwin—
in tlie name of tlie State of Washing
ton you are hereby notified that the plain
tiff in this action has filed a complaint
against you in said court, which will
come on to be heard at my office in Lou.
mis, Okanogan county, State of Washing,
ton, on Saturday the 3»th day of Decem
ber, 1910 at the hour of 9 o clock A. M.
of said day. and unless you appear then
and there and answer the same will be
taken as confessed, and the demand of
the plaintiff granted.
The object and demand of said com
plaint is to secure Judgment against de.
fendant in favor of plaintiff for the sum
of $20.25 and costs of this action for an
Insurance policy bought of plaintiff and
never paid for.
Complaint filed December Bth, 1916.
M. H. SMITH,
Justice of the pence.
W. E. Grant, attorney for plaintiff. Post
Office address. I .corn is, Okanogan county
State of Washington.
First publication December 13, 1916.
NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT
In tlie Superior Court of the State of
Washington, in and for the County of
Okanogan, in probata.
In the matter of the estate of Henry
Brown, deceased, notice of Settlement of
account, No. 628.
Notice is hereby given that Charley
Hottomley, executor of the estate of Hen.
ry Brown, deceased, has rendered and
presented for settlement to. and tiled In
the Superior Court of said county and
State, his final account as such executor,
and that Tuesday, the 2nd day of January
A. D. 1917, at ten o’clock A. M. at the
court room of our said Superior Court, In
the town of Okanogan In said county, has
been duly appointed by our said Superior
Court for the settlement of the final ac
count. at which time and place any per
son interested In said estate may appeal
and file his exceptions In writing to the
said final account, and contest the same.
Witness the Hon. Court Commissioner
of the said Superior Court, and the seal
of said court affixed this 13th day of
December, A. D. 1916.
MARY E. McCLURE.
County Clerk and Clerk of the Snpelor
First publication Dec. 15. 1916.
In the Justice Court of Loomis Precinct
Loomis. Okanogan county. State of Wash
ington, before M. H. Smith. J. I .
H. VV. Champneys, Plaintiff
vs
T L. Irwin, defendant, Summons.
State of Washington. County of Okanogan.
SB.
To T. L. Irwin: # . .
In the name of the State of Wasiiing
ton, you are hereby notified that H. VV.
Champnevs. has filed a complaint against
vou in said court, which will come to he
heard at my office In Loomis. Okanogan
Countv, State of Washington, on Satur
day the 30th day of December 1910. at
the hour of ten o’clock a. m. of said day.
and unless you appear then and there and
answer, the same will be taken as con.
fessed. and the demand of the complaint
of plaintiff granted.
The object and demand of said claim
is to secure judgment against defendant
in favor of plaintiff for *92.65 on a claim
that plaintiff has against defendant for
said amount and costs of this action.
Complaint filed December Bth. 1916.
M. H. SMI I li.
Justice of the Peace,
VV E. flrant. attorney for plaintiff. Post
Office address, Loomis, Okanogan county
Washington. ... , n i<-
First publication December la. PH*’-
In the Superior Court of State of
Washington, for Okanogan county. In pro.
the matter of the estate of Henr>
Drown, deceased. Ordeer to Show C ause
why distribution should not be made. No
52 ?Vppllcatlon having been Alert In this
court on the I.lth day of December. A. D
IHI fi. by Charley Bottomley for final dis
ti million of the residue of said estate.
n D iV ordered that all persons Interested
in the estate of said Henry Hi own. de
.eased be, and are hereby directed I
appear In the court room of this court at.
the court house In the town of Okanogan
lit"/ 1 *da v° of ‘j arum ry A. the
”l, I*‘furthe’r*ordered that a copy of this
i*ss::ss
CO mte;i this I.lth day of December, A. n.
I® l6 - OEO. S DEE.
Court Commissioner.
First publication December 18, 1916.
ANOTHER fire.
SUMMONS,
SUMMONS.
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
A GREAT RECORD.
Oroville Corn Takes Frizes at the St,
Paul Corn Show.
1 hose responsible for sending a corn
exhibit from this place to the great
com sliow held annually at St. Paul
under the auspices of the First Nat
ional Bank of that city, builded better
than they knew, as It has resulted in
bringing the Okanogan valley with
in the West Okanogan Valley Irri
gation district into the lime light, as
growers of this vicinity captured first,
second, third and fourth prizes from
the first ’Washington district. The
greater honor fell to K. 12. Starkey ol
I rOssor, who won the sweepstakes
prize in competition with corn from
districts in Wisconsin, Minnesota,
North and South Dakota, Montana.
Idaho and Oregon. Oroville did not
secure the sweepstakes, hut secured
honors enough to attract attention
among corn growers all over tlie west.
The first prize taken by Oroville ex
hibits went to J. J. McLaughlin, who
raised the corn on land owned hy L.
F. Pourtales. located a few miles south
of Oroville, on the east side of the
Okanogan river.
The second prize went to that vet
eran farmer, J. A. McQlnty, whoso
ranch is near that of Mr. Paurtaloa.
Mr. McGinty has a show place when
the products of the land are in their
lull fruitage. The gentleman combines
intelligence with muscle in handling
his ranch, and as a result, all ho raises
Is of a superior quality. His fruits can
not be excelled, and the melons and
vegetables from his place always at
tract attention on account of their size
and appearance. C. W. Botiomley took
the third prize. Mr. Hottomley is one
ot the pioneer stock men and ranchers
of the valley, living some three or four
miles south of Oroville on the west
side of the Okanogan river. He had a
considerable acreage in corn this year
and it reminded the writer more ot
the Illinois corn fields of his boyhood
days than anything that he has seen of
the kind since turning his back on the
Mississippi river 12 year sago. The
fourth prize went to John R. Wood,
who grew the corn on the west shore
of Osoyoos lake, on ground broken
out for tlie first time last spring. Mr.
Wood Is a new arrival in this neigh
borhood, and judging from the results
of his efforts on his first trial he is
Just the kind ot people needed to get
the best out of the soil of the valley,
It can he said for Mr. Wood that so
far as the size of the ears and quality
of the kernel his corn was equal to the
balance that drey prizes, but he en
tered white corn, and the yellow vari
ety held precedence over the white.
Without doubt the exhibiting of this
corn and its capturing of prizes in
competition with many other exhibits
has done more to advertise this part
of the Okanogan valley than any pre
ceding effort on the part of those in
terested in attracting attention this
way. It was a great publicity ctunt and
will beat fruit. Furthermore, there is
great satisfaction among the people
of the adjacent country to know that
a supior quality of that great staple
cereal can lie successfully grown in
tlie valley and it will lie an incentive
for others to plant corn and care for it
properly. All the prize winning corn
was grown under the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation system. The fact that
water could lie conveyed to the ground
by that means accounts for the growth,
development and maturity of this
prime corn, and anywhere in the val
ley under the ditch tlie same quality
of tills grain can be produced If the
grower is careful in selecting seed
and then cares for the crop until ready
for harvest. To the men who won we
extend congratulations and trust that
next year they will try again with a
more earnest purpose of beating all
comers out of sight at the next St.
Paul corn show.
SM I RKS KIGHT-OFWAT
ACROSS INDIAN LANDS.
The Irrigation District is in receipt
of a decision from Assistant Commis
sioner of the Department of the Inter
ior, to the effect that right-of-way for
the irrigation canal across the Indian
lands of the district has been granted.
The first decision ot the department
was unfavorable and an appeal was
made from the decision with the re
sults above stated.
The matter has been handled for the
District by .Judge C. H. Neal and has
been under way for a period of over
three years. It is very gratifying to the
district to secure these permits at this
time as the District is also securing
from other landowners final papers
for right-of-way for the canal system.
great sport ahead.
On the evening of Thursday, Decem
ber 28th, the sport lovers of Orovllle.
are going to have a chance to see one
of the most exciting and interesting
basket ball games that has ever been
pulled off in the gym of the local high
school. The basket ball team of Wa
terville is to make a tour of Okanogan
county and have Axed upon next
Thursday evening as the date for their
appearance in Orovllle. Our boys are
rather light weight this year, and have
had but little practice, but they will
ko into steady training from now on
and will be fit to give the visitors a
run for their money. The local team is
going to be at considerable expense
on this occasion and every resident of
the town, should buy a ticket to the
game even if they do not attend In
person.
OROVILLE. WASHIN VTON, DECEMBER 22, 1916
KILLED AT BELLINGHAM.
A report was in circulation last
tveek that T. S. Banber, at one time a
resident of Orovllle, had been struck
by a train at Bellingham and killed,
but it was imposslblu* to secure con
firmation of the report before going
to press. Saturday, E. N. Grubb re
ceived a letter from Mr. Banber’s
sister, Mrs. M. L. Marlette, announcing
the death of her brother and enclosing
the following newspaper account of
the accident;
“Struck by Northern Pacific switch
engine No. 368, southbound, while
crossing the Northern Pacific tracks at
Carolina street, T. Banber, a deaf man
was injured so severely today that he
died about three and one half hours
later at St. Luke’s hospital. Banber
lived with his sister, Mrs. M. L. Mar
lette, at 2427 Pacific street. He came
here from Orovllle, Washington, about
a year ago. He left no family of his
own. He was about 60 years of age.
"Banber was coming toward the city
It Is said when he wag hit by the lo
comotive, which was; driven by En
gineer William Hayward. Deafness
prevented him from bearing its ap
proach and it is evident that he did
not see It, unless Just a moment before
it struck him. He was hurled several
feet and suffered several fractured
ribs, a severe contusion on the chest
and lascerations of the head. The ac
cident Jinppened at 9:30 and Banber
died about 1 p. m.
"The locomotive was stopped imme
diately and the crew (licked him up
and called for Dr. N. W. Wear, by
whom he was removed to the hospital.
There Banber was attended by Drs.
Wear and Dr. Marcrea Smith. He was
conscious while the physicians work
ed over him, but did not speak of the
accident or of how it.came that he
was not aware of the tpcomotive’s ap
proach.”
The deceased resided In Loomis and
Orovllle for a number of years, and
at all times during his residence In the
county was in the employ of Mr. and
Mrs. E. N. Grubb, assisting in various
capacities about the hotels conducted
by the Grubbs. Banber -was a sturdy,
soldierly looking man of some t,9
years. He earned his military bearing
by long service on the plains as a
scout. He was almost gtono deaf, ami
it was difficult to commtfalcatc with
him. He was reticent da to his exper
ience on the plains, the little
he did occasionally teH*>R was evident
that his life was I ul» stirring ep;
sodes and hair breadth escapes. He
Is among the last of that valorous and
reckless race of men who took pare in
the Indian fighting 'hat made the wes
tern pathway sale for the tide that
was flowing toward the setting sun
lie was one of the chief scouts under
tout celebrate! Indian fighter, General
Crook, and followed, or as he has stat
ed, led the way Into numerous Indian
combats in which Crook cowed the
red inhabitants of the plains. Banber
was always industrious, pleasant and
accommodating while connected with
the hotels that Mr. and Mrs. Grubb
have conducted in Loomis and Oro
ville. and strictly honest and upright
in all his dealings. Everybody who
knew him liked the old man and will
read with regret the account of his
tragic end.
The deceased left Orovllle over a
year ago to make his home with his
sister at Bellingham. He was a man
without means, and through kindness
of heart Mr. Grubb has been in the
habit of sending him money o;c.is
ionally. Mr. Grubb sent him a remit
tance on the 3rd of this month and it
was through this letter found" on his
person that the unioitunate man was
identified by the authorities at the
time of the accident.
The X-Mas entertainment that is to
bo given by the M. E. Sunday school
next Monday evening will be different
from that usual procedure. Heretofore
the school gave a treat to the crowd
that came to the entertainment, but
on account of the suffering all over
the world at this time the children
decided that they did not want a treat,
but would bring gifts in cash or use
ful articles for the use of the Old
People’s Home In Spokane. There will
be the old fashioned X-Mas tree, deco
rations and entertainment, hut no
front. Everybody come.
Mark Sawtell and the grippe have
been having a hand to hand tussel, but
Mark is coming out ahead, as he al
ways does in any Job he tackles.
Mrs. Montague, mother of Mrs. Shad
bolt, is visiting Mrs. J. A. Spencer
this week.
10 a. in. Sunday school; 11 a. m.
sermon, subject: "The Empty Stock
ing.” 6:30 p. m. Epworth Deague. 7:30
p, m. sermon by Mrs. Rev. Thompson.
Roy scouts meet Saturday. 2 p. in..
Prayer and praise meeting Thursday at
7:30 p. m. The Christmas tree and en
tertainment will be held at the church
Monday evening at 7:30 p. m. Decem
ber 25. A cordial invitation is extended
to all.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHCRCH.
(G. H. Severance, Dean.)
Next services will be on Sunday.
December 31, at 11 a. m. and 7 p, in.
Sunday school at 12 each Sunday. The
Sunday school Christmas festivities
and tree will be held during the Chris
tmas Octave on Friday evening. Dec.
29 at 6 p. m.
X-MAS ENTERTAINMENT.
EAST ORCHARD TRACT.
M. E. CHUBCH.
P. L. COOK, Pastor
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
A special meeting of the Bar Asso
ciation of Okanogan county was held
at Okanogan Tuesday for the single
purpose of taking appropriate action
upon the death of Judge E. K. Pen
dergast, and a large number of at
torneys were present. A committee
was appointed to draft suitable resolu
tions, and that committee reported the
following preamble and resolutions
that were unanimously adopted by the
association:
Your committee appointed by the
court, on behalf of the Bar Associa
tion of Okanogan county, to prepare
resolutions on the death of the Honor
able E. K. Peudergast, late Judge of
the Superior Court for Okanogan
county, state of Washington, beg leave
to present the following:
Whereas, The Great Creator in his
Infinite wisdom has been pleased to
remove from the cares and troubles
Of this transitory life the Honorable
E. K. Pendergast, Judge of our Super
ior Court, and
Whereas, Judge Pendergast by reas
on of his keen and active mind, his
intellectual attainments, his great
store of legal learning and his long
and successful experience as a lawyer
and Judge, and above all by reason of
his sterling worth as a man and a cit
izen occupied a high place among the
members of the Bench and Bar of the
State of Washington, and commanded
the respect and high regard of all his
associates and fellow citizens, and
Whereas. The sudden though peace
ful and happy ending of his successful
active and honorable life is a great
loss to the county and slate wherein
he lived and worked and a more griev
ous and personal loss to his associates
in this association, and
Whereas, The bereaved widow and
son to whom the devoted husband and
father was attached by bonds of love
unusually strong, yet tender, suffer
the greatest loss of all by reason of
the sudden calling of their loved one
to a higher life.
Now, therefore, be It Resolved, By
the Bar Asociation of Okanogan coun
ty, Washington, that we most deeply
deplore the loss of our departed friend
and fellow worker.
Be It Further Resolved, That we ex
tend to the sorrow stricken widow
and son our heartfelt sympathy in
this, their hour of desolation.
Be it Further Resolved, That, we
recommend that a copy of these reso
lutions be ordered to be entered up
on the records of the court over which
the departed so Justly and uprightly,
presided, and that a certified copy of
the record thereof be sent by the clerk
of said court to the widow and son of
the deceased.
( OI .M IL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
tlie town council of Orovllle, Wash.,
December 11, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilman
Beale, Friis, Smith and Starrett. Min
utes of the previous meeting read and
approved as read. The matter of wa
ter rent of Ed. Davis was discussed
and the treasurer was instructed to
charge the minimum charge for the
months in question. The matter of rat
ing the water charge at the hospital
was taken up and the treasurer was
Instructed to charge $1.95 per month
as provided by ordinance.
The application for a telephone fran
chise by the West Okanogan Irrigation
District was read and on motion
Thursday, January 4, 1917 at 8:30 p.
m. was set as a date of hearing and
the clerk was instructed to have the
necessary notices published and post
ed.
The council then canvassed the vote
of the municipal election held Decem
ber 5, 1916, and found as follows;
For mayor, F. S. Beale, 94. J. G. Hare
15.
For councilman for two years: S. B.
Starrett, 108, F. V. Covert 2, J. G. Hare
I, R. L, Prentice 1, A. P. Murray 2, G.
L. Armstrong 2, L. W. Barnes, 89.
Founcilman for one year: Chas.
Sterling 104, R. L. Prentice 1, A. P.
Murray 1.
For treasurer: E. A. McMahan 108,
J. G. Hare 1.
Upon this official canvass the fol
lowing were declared elected: mayor,
F. S. Beale; councllmon for two years:
S. B. Starrett and L. W. Barnes. Coun
cilman for one year: Chas. Sterling;
treasurer, E. A. McMahan.
On motion the following bills were
allowed end ordered paid: Okanogan
Valley Power Co., supplies, $21.50; J.
H. Fraser, assistant engineer $1.50;
L. F. Pourtales, election inspector, $4;
J. M. Fraser, election Judge, $4; C. F.
Sigrist, election judge, $4; R. L. Pren
tice, hauling hose cart, $2.50. On mo
tion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
town council of Oroville, Washington,
December 18, 1916.
Present Mayor Samson, Conncilmen
Beale, Frlis and Smith.
Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved as read. The town treas
urer appeared before the council ask
ing for the transfer of certain moneys
to other funds. On motion the treas
urer was Instructed to transfer $250.00
and S2O from the water company fund
to the current expense fund, and $29.41
from the water company fund to the
bond Interest fund. On motion the
council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
Dr Lewis and family will leave Sat
urday to spend the holidays at Spring
dale and Spokane with his family and
will return home the 3rd or 4th of
January.
A PROFITABLE CROP.
Mr. Editor:—
The future prosperity of the Okano
gan valley, and more especially the
district surrounding Orovllle, is an as
sured tact. The corn and potatoes rais
ed here cannot be excelled, which has
been demonstrated during the past
season. J. T. McAllister planted one
sack of Netted Gem potatoes and har
vested 01 sacks from the same. Not less
than 25 per cent of these Oil sacks
averaged over one pound to each po
tatoe. This is better than the Yakima
valley can show.
Orovllle is fortunate in having such
a large territory contiguous to Up
town suitable tor raising potatoes. A
farmer here can take three tracts ol
land, say of ten acres each, and by
planting potatoes in one of these tracts,
winter wheat in another and sowing
clover with the winter wheat he can
get live crops In three years. As soou
as the potatoes are harvested the
ground is in line condition to receive
the winter wheat and clover seed. The
wheat will be harvested early the next
July and a late crop of clover can be
harvested, say late in September or
early in October. About the middle ol
the next May a crop of clover can be
cut, two or three weeks later a second
crop of clover can bo plowed under,
(making one of the very best fertilis
ers), and a crop of potalojs planted
Immediately, which should yield not
less than eight tons of potatoes to the
acre. Such a system of farming will
keep the land free from weeds and in a
high state of fertilization. As potatoes
are very seldom lower than "5 cents
per 100 pounds at |ls per ton, this
means a total of |l2O per acre, and this
should net not less Utau S9O per acre.
Now, there is an assured market for
all the potatoes that can be raised
hero. Instead of three car loads ship
ped out of Orovllle each year there
should be at least 150 cars, netting the
farmers $45,000.
Negotiations arc now under way to
furnish seed for two or three hundred
acres to tanners who will contract to
plant and cultivate their crops. Polatoe
diggers wll be furnished, and the po
tatoes sorted In the fields as in the
Yakima valley. The crop will be con
traded for at the best market price at
harvest time. The idea of sorting the
potatoes in the field Is that while most
of the farmers are honest, there arc a
few who practice filling up the center
of the sack with small, unmerchant
able potatoes. I am glad to say that
such farmers are in the minority, bul
they are the ones that are always com
plaining of the dealers trying to beat
them. After the merchantable potatoes,
and No. 1 should not be loss than five
ounces, the farmer can get his seec
and enough fair sized potatoes foi
home use, except for baking purposes.
The remaining small potatoes can be
used for hog feed. This Is the system
of farming as I was taught In Ireland
as a boy.
In conjunction with the above 1 will
state that I paid Mr. McAllister the
sum of $56.70 for 4235 pounds of his
potatoes, and he retained ton sacks for
seed for next year, and that from less
than one-fifth of an acre of land.
E. McCAMMOX.
AT THE LYRIC THEATRE.
The bookings at the Lyric theatre
for this week are no less strong
than that of last week, when “David
Garrick" filled, the house to capacity.
For this week we will have for Satur
day matinee, night and Sunday night,
Israel Zangwill'g powerful drama en
titled "The Moment Before,” with
Pauline Frederick in the leading role.
"The Moment Before" is a thrilling,
narrative of the incidents of the life of
“Madge*’ the Gypsy girl, who lived to
become the Duchess of Maldon. The
wild scenes of Gypsy life and the plots
and counterplots keep the interest at
fever heat from start to finish. The
scenes of this production wore taken
in the Bermudas and are beautiful al
most beyond description. Also this
week Farmer Alfalfa gets his revenge
for the many things he has had to
suffer at the hands of the screen artist.
Matinee starts promptly at 3 p. in.
For next Wednesday and Thursday
“The Innocent Lie” wMI be the offer
ing. It is the story of a poor Irish
peasant girl who comes to America
and fights her way to love and comfort
through obstacles almost unbelievable.
Miss Valentine Grant plays the part of
“Nora” with Jack Clark and Morris
Foster as “Terry” and “Pat." A won
derful story, filled with plenty of ac
tion and pathos.
It is the bounden duty of our citizens
to see that the Christinas spirit enters
into the homes of any in this commun
ity who may be without the comforts
of life or means to provide those com
forts. Few communities are without
their poor and Oroville is not an ex*
ceptlon, although fortunately, the in
digent here are few. There are organi
zations that could well take up that
duty and the always liberal and gen
erous businessmen will have no hesi
tancy in aidi* the good work. In a
year when so many are blessed with
plenty they should be ready and will
ing to give at least a little of their much
to aid those who have been less fortu
nate. Do not let a single person want
for Christmas cheer next Monday. If
you know of any one in distress, to
whom a helping hand would be a God
send and a blessing, enlist the aid of
neighbors and acquaintances so that
distress may be relieved.
Start the new year right by subscrib
ing for the Oroville Gazette, if you at *
not already a “constant reader."
SEEKING A NEW HOME.
Friday last L. L. Work, accompanied
by bis son Kenneth, 'eft for the east,
taking the southern route by the way
of San Francisco. Mr. Work Is to lo
cate in New York city, where he will
be joined by his wife and daughter,
who preceded him several weeks and
are now visiting at Lincoln, Nebraska.
In the departure of Mr. Work, Oka
nogan county loses a citizen who has
been Identified with the business inter
ests of the county tor a quarter of a
century, and one that has done more
for tlie upbuilding of the county tin.,
any other single individual.
Vours ago Mr. Work opened a bank
at (Joucouelly. This county experienc
ed serious reversals with the failure
of mining ventures, which was the
principal industry in those days, and
Mr. Work closed his bank, yet no one
suffered loss by that suspension which
was voluntary. He went to Beiiuig
ham, where he lived for a year or two.
His loaiidcuee in the future of Oka
nogan county was not shaken and he
returned and established the Commer
cial bank at Conconully. before many
years Mr. Work was interested in a
chain of banks that covered Concon
ully, Twisp, Brewster, Okanogan,
Orovllle and Molsou. His activities
were not confined to banking. He in
vested and took hold of numerous
ventures that contributed toward the
deveiopmet of the resources ot tns
country. His organization of a catue
company in the Methow valley was me
Urst step towards starting the catue
industry In that section, wuicn has
grown to be of great importance.
Mr. Work’s assistance was called
upon in early days on the occasion of
every movement that had for its object
the welfare or advancement of the
county, and he cheenuiiy and gener
ously responded with both his ume
and means. He preached the gospel of
Okanogan among people living at a
distance, among financiers, home
seekers and in the marts of trade, ,
for his business called him outside on
lung trips frequently. He never lost
an opportunity to advertise the at
tractions and possibilities of this up
per country, and through his instru
mentality scores of people were in
duced to come Into the county and lo
cate. The good he has done the county
during the long years of hie active par-
ticipation in ita business affairs is be
yond calculation, and is not yet sutfi
cieatly understood and appreciated by
the public. He will be sorely missed,
if commendation is withheld at present
there will come a time when full reali
sation of his worth, ind the work he
lias accomplished, will appeal strongly
to those with whom he has been asso
ciated for so many years and he will
he given the credit that he deserves.
Mr. Work moved from Concouuliy to
Oroville several years ago, and during
his residence here has been a very
prominent agency in every position
that aimed at betterement of the town
and the surrounding country. His aid
and advice was frequently sought, and
he never failed to respond. In his civ
ic duties he never shirked the respon
sibilities of citizenship. As a keen, ca
pable, successful banker, Mr. Work
has few superiors. He has been safe
and sane in handling every trust plac
ed in his hands. If his Judgment was
ever at fault, outside of banking,
where he made no serious mistakes,
he accepted reverses calmly and philo
sophically. Personally Mr. Work is a
most likeable gentleman. In public life
ho was trustworthy and upright, and
his private life was without a flaw.
He and his most estimable family carry
with them into their new home the
best wishes of a multitude of friends.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
No preaching service. Sunday school
at usual hour, 11:30 a. m. At 2:30 l p.
m. a Christmas program will be given
to which every member of the church,
school or congregation is cordially in
vited to be present.
J. M. NORRIS, Supt.
C. H. Pickin left Saturday for San
Francisco where ho goes to visit a
brother whom he has not seen for a
number of years and will remain
south the rest of the winter. Mr. Pick
in is one of the oldest and best known
sheep raisers in Northern Okanogan
county, although Just at the present
time he is out of the business and has
been out for a year. In the fall of
1915 the price of sheep had reached A
point where it looked like good Judg
ment to unload, and Mr. Pickin did
so at a very confortable profit, but
this year when he decided to reinvest
In mutton on the hoof he found the
article out of reach, or at least It had
reached a value beyond anything that
would Justify investment. He has
made a success of the business, knows
it irom a to izzard, and will be back
into it again at some future time.
Thursday Undertaker L. W. Barnes
received a Christmas present that was
very much of a surprise. The present
was in the nature of half a dozen Im
p i d linen handkerchiefs and a box
oi Havana cigars manufactured In
bond and the best of the kind In the
market. The doner was Miss Anna M.
Murphy, of Louisville, Ky., a sister of
the late Mother Scholastica. Accom
panying the present was a card ex
pressing the thanks of Miss Murphy
and her sisters fbr the kindness shown
to Mother Scholastica by Mr. Barnes.
91.M PBR TBAR
