imrf.
IP
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY,. DECEMBER 22, 1916.
NO. 50
VOL. 43
nnrCC JHT C Everything to Please
IiL,D21 1 DmaKthe Aios Exacting
Books and Fine Papers in largest abundance. Lots of beautiful Cut Glass Pieces at astonishingly
low prices. TOYS of every description, and DOLLS innumerable and then some.
Y Y Y Y Y Y's YOU ARE IF YOU MAKE PELTY'S BOOK STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
....
APPROPMIt PRESENTS
What is Better than Footwear?
i
Regulation Needed
of Suburban Lines
Give something for Christmas that is useful as well as beauti
ful. Footwear makes a most appropriate and acceptable gift
for every member of the family from Grandfather to the Baby.
WARM SLIPPERS, LEGGINS, FINE SHOES, HOSIERY, etc.
And the Place to Buy Them
KARSCH'S
The Christmas
Entertainment
A Jefferson telegram of the 20th
says that the State Public Service
Commission had been asked to adopt
a general order fixing suburban street
car rates on a basis of 2 cents per
mile. The proposition was submit
ted by the Kansas City Railway Com
pany, and it is expected to open a
lone (ifi-ht.
Whether, if this rate were adopted
by the Public Service Commission, it
woul. affect lines like tne at. rran
cois County Railway (electric) line,
we Ion t know, hut there is a (rood deal
of complaint about the rate charged
by wis roaa, wnicn is a traction less
than 4 cents a mile between Farm-
inetnn and Flat River, and fully
cents a mile between Farmington and
DeLassus. When Commissioner Bean,
of the Public Service Commission,
was here recently hearing complaints,
the management of the St. Francois
County Railway, which is really an
arm of the M. R. & B. T. Railroad,
and is practically owned and its
shcedules fixed by the latter com
pany, claimed that the road was not
actually paying expenses. With the
crowded condition of the cars on their
morning and evening runs, and a ,
generous passenger patronage on all
cars, the people can't understand
why it doesn't pay handsomely, the
people feel like they arc paying too
dearly for local transportation.
However, as a fight from another
quarter has been begun before the
Commission, for a lower rate on su
burban cars, and that, too, by a city
railway company, the result will be
awaited with considerable interest.
and Caroling
Hunters Home
With Trophies
Sheriff Williams, Jake Day, Mod
Coffman, Francis TJcnham and th
other hunters who went to Reynold
county for a week's hunting and out
ing, got back home last Saturday.
They had the time of their lives, if
one may judge by the enthusiasm
with which they dilate on their ex
ploits. Along with other game of di
vers sort that they bagged and with
which they regaled their whetted ap
petites in camp, they say they killed
4. - .1.. .,.,.! ,1...,. L,.,.M,rl,t carl-
from the municipal Christmas cele-1 de3 of venison home with them as
The municipal Christmas Tree is
now in place on the Court House
grounds, the entertainment will take
place at the Monarch Theatre to-morrow
(Saturday) evening at 6:45
o'clock, and the Bands of Carol Sing
ers will start out Sunday night af
ter the services at the several churches.
This is to be something different
brations heretofore given. The tree
in the Court House yard will be dec
orated and lighted up in all its
Christmas glory, but there will not
be any gifts on it to be distributed.
Instead of the usual gifts of can
dies and toys which the Christmas
tree is supposed to bear, the women's
clubs of the town have arranged an
other gift that will prove just as en
joyable. They have arranged a splen
did program for an entertainment to
This County Has
LiveRepresentative
Two Mining Com
panies Incorporate
smelt and refine ores, metals, mine- Robinson, Guy Tullock,
-.-la oln tr, ni:rrhns;e and work jrCS. Evans. O. H. DU grins
atf nnf nrpnni'p them for market. Walsh. The stockholders and the
The Apex Mining Company has
. , . i 1 V,i, uATlln (if Olir
lust uec'i uicuijiui .-' j -nrnrnntinn
focal people, with a capital stock of $P"0
$10 000 divide.1 into 1,000 : hares, ine
purpose of the compa.iy is to mine,
C. A. Tetley
DENTIST
Now Located in the
New Tetley Building
NOTE: t have ordered my
phone installed, but cannot get
It for about ten days or two
weeks. Until that time, any
one wishing to make appoint
ments with me may do so by
calling Eight-four.
le, trade or use; to prospect for and
discover mines and claims; to pur
chase, sell ani lease mining property
and other real estate, and other pur
rnur3 set. forth iii the articles of in-
r ..- , . ..
corporation, ine directors eiecieu
for the first vear. with J. S. Clay as
president, are: P. A. Shaw, L. H. Wil
liams, B. J. Robinson, A. F. Eugas,
Oscar L. Haile and E. J. MeKinney.
The stockholders are: J. S. Clay, 50
shares; L. H. Williams, 65 shares;
W. L. Hensley, 65 shares; P. A. Shaw,
130 shares; Judge Peter H. Huck, Ste.
Genevieve, 65; Dr. B. J. Robinson, 50;
Dr. J. P. Clark, Perryville, 50; Dr. A.
F. Eugas, 50; Emily F. Murphy, 30;
Oscar L. Haile. 65: N. E. Bugg, 20; B.
S. McCullough, 40; Dr. W. G. Patton,
25; E. J. MeKinney, 65; Henry W.
Manley, 25; A. C. and Hattie Boyd,
25: O. H. L. Cunningham, 15; J. T.
Evans. 50: O. H. Dueeins. 50: May C
Haile. 10: H. P. Crowe, 25 total
1.000.
The Lucky Jack Mining Company
is another just incorporated with a
capital stock of $30,000, the purpose
set forth in the incorporation papers
being the same as those named in the
Apex Mining company, ine Doara
of directors for the first year are
Geo. K. Williams, Walter L. Hensley,
E. J. MeKinney, W. 1. Haile, B. J
number of shares of $100 each are as
follows: B. J. Robinson, 10; Guy Tul
lock. 30: Ellis Byington, 20; U. S.
Grant Evans, 20; H. P. Crowe, 20; R.
earner waisn, zv; w. i. riane, ou; o.
S. McCullough, 10; W. L. Hensley, 60;
O. H. Duggins, 20; E. J. MeKinney,
20; J. N. Stone, 20; George K. Wil
liams, 30 total 300 shares.
Special
Christmas Matinee
AT THE
Monarch Theatre
MONDAY, DEC. 25th, 2:30 P. M.
"CAPTAIN JINKS"
Of the Horse Marines
In 5 Acts
From The Famous Novel by Clyde Fitch,
Bubbling and Sparkling with
Genuine Humor
Admission 5 and 10c
Entire Change Of Program
At Night
No Hope in
Sight for Peace
The peace negotiation proposal
made by Germany and her allied pow
ers has practically been rejected by
all the Entente Allies France, Eng
land, Russia and Italy. Russia and
France were the first to voice their
attitude, and last Tuesday, in the
English House of Lords, Premier
Lloyd-George said that it was felt
that they should know before enter
ing on negotiations that Germany
was prepared to accede to the only
terms wherein it is possible for peace
to be obtained and maintained. He
declared that there could be no basis
for peace negotiations that did not
include full reparation on the part of
Germany and Austria of all outrages
on land and sea, and a complete guar
antee airainst Prussian militarism
disturbine the peace of Europe in the
future. The Premier announced that
the formal reply of the Allies to
Germany's proposal would be given
in a few days.
Germany's proposal suggested no
terms, and Lloyd-George said that to
enter into proposals of which they
had no knowledge would be to put
their heads into a noose with the
ropes in the hands of Germany. The
Allies also resent, ine spirit in wnicn
the German proposal was made
that of a victor o ihe varwuinhed
holding that whatever advantages
either side has gained is in favor of
the Allies, and that ultimate victory
will rest with then. France, it iteeniS,
has her heart on th restoration to lier
rf Alsace and Lorraine; Rtusia has
long coveted Constantinople, whi;h the
Allies have promised her in the event
of final victory; Italy has her tole to
claim of Austria, and England, on the
surface, demands complete restora
tion and reparation for Belgium, and
doubtless has her eyes on a good deal
more of which she has not taken the
world into her confidence. From all
which it may be seen that there is lit
tle hope in sight for peace negotia
tions at this time. Evidently, how
ever, both sides are pretty sick of the
war, and the unexpected might pos
sibly happen.
Herbert Klein of Seth, Arkansas,
be
(Saturday) evening at the Monarch
Theatre, that will be a delight to
children and old folks alike. Every
thing will be on the Christmas or
der. The program will consist, in part,
of the following:
The grand old hymn, "Joy to the
World."
"True Meaning of Christmas," ad
dress by J. Clyde Akers.
Reading of Vandyke's "The First
Christmas Tree," by Mrs. F. S.
Weber.
Carol Singing, by Singers of the City.
Schubert Students' Orchestra will
play.
And then on Sunday .night, Christ
mas Eve, the children and older peo
ple will be given an opportunity to
test the delight of the sweet spirit of
giving and to realize the truth of the
blessed Christ's words, "It is more
Representative-elect, G. W. Moot- blessed to give than to receive. Short -
hart, Mrs. Moothart and daughter ly after nine o'clock four Bands of
left Wednesday for Bismarck, where Carol Singers will start out over town
Mrs. Moothart and daughter will vis- and fill the air with glad Christmas
it relatives and friends a few days. Carols. They will visit the homes
Ronvoaentntive Moothart attended the that show the Christmas spirit with
U S Grant! meeting held in St. Louis yesterday windows illuminated with candles,
and 'R. E. j between leading Democrats and Gov.- This illumination will be taken as an
elect Gardner. He returned to ms- invitation 10 me w
marck the last of the week for Mrs. that a donation awaits them for some
iuntt,o.. TV, ,11, urill , ,..,,,1 i fow fluvs rhnritnhlc nurnose. the nature and
I . -1 1 ,. T j: Ixl. .V1-1. iL. ..,nw,nniE
in St. Louis, tietore proceeamg to jei
ferson City for the forthcoming ses
sion of the Legislature.
Very fortunately Prof. Moothart
has already secured satisfactory
rooms at the State Capital, so that
they will not be in thv unseemly
wrangle and mix up to escuie a lodg
ing place in that somewhat primitive
proof of their prowess as deer hunt
ers.
Now when it comes to fish stories,
people naturally expect a little stretch
ing of the net, a little exaggerating of
the size of piscatorial prizes, by our
amateur Isaak Waltons, and there are
doubting Thomases among us who at
tribute the same weakness to modern
Nimrods who hie themselves to the
forest to hunt bear, wolves, deer and
such like ferocious game. To allay
town during the Legislative session, ever, will have its Christmas enter
Now that a Splendid new Capitoi tainment this (Friday) evening, in
building is approaching completion the commodious basement rooms of
there the troupes of the legislators the church building, which have just
will perhaps be multiplied, as it ; been completed.
removes the wh;p that has -U used
with mora or hms success in the past
for removing the Capitol elsewhere.
Going After the
"Barrel Houses
On last Saturday injunction pro
ceedings were commenced against the
"barrel houses", located in Ste. Gen
evieve county, one conducted by Har
ry Highley and Joe Byington, locat
ed near Farmington Junction, and the
other operated by A. M. Jackson, and
located about four miles east of Des
loge. Affidavits were filed alleging that
both places are being conducted in
such a way as to constitute a nui
sance to the morals of the community
in which they are located; that men
and boys and women are seen at both
places in a drunken condition, in
riulfinc in loud cursing and swearing
and indecent language; also mar. ine
highways leading to the places have
become dangerous roads on which to
travel, and the farmers' wives are
afraid to travel the same; alsa that
intoxicating liquors are being sold
there by the drink without license,
and on Sunday and to minors.
The petitioners are represented by
W. A. Gardner, Pipkin & Story and
Henry Davis, and same will be heard
next Saturday by Judge Huck at Ste.
Genevieve.
given at 6:45 o'clock tomorrow any (,oubl ag to their prowcgs in tm
deer line our local huntsmen exniniteu
the proof of their story two saddles
of venison, ergo, they killed two deer,
as they say.
But this did not allay the too ready
suspicions of some who are not dis
posed to give the hunters full cre
dit for all they claim. They noted the
fact that the story mentioned one
good sized buck or doe and another
of lighter weight, also that the two
"saddles" were rights and lefts, and
that when weighed on the scales each
was approximately of the same
weight. They reasoned from this that
the two "saddles" were more likely to
have come from the same deer, rath
er than one each from two separate
animals. Thus it is that we always
have among us people who are contin
ually trying to "take the joy out of
life." ,
Nw, we do not lino up with these
doubting Thomases we are suscep
tible enough to believe the two-deer
story and even if it were only one,
that is doing pretty well for a party
of hunters in this twentieth century
when deer are no longer driven with
hunger up to our cabin doors when
the ground is crusted deep with snow.
But one deer, or two, there is no
doubt that our hunters, or one of them,
had a good view of two. They brought
the evidence of one at least nome,
and the evidence of the other is in the
woful story of Mode Coffman. Now
Mode is an old seasoned hunter, and
we wouldn't have thought it of him;
but it is said he caught sight of a
beautiful antlered specimen, head and
tail up, making a bee line for his
stand. Up went Mode's gun, but as
his eye looked over the sight of his
gun into the startled gaze of the
proud monarch of the forest, he was
taken with a fit of buck-ague that so
unnerved him that he couldn't remem
ber afterwards whether he fired into
the air or into the ground, but that
was the last seen of that deer.
TVipv had a e-ood time anyway, and
no doom bug is going to take the
joy of it out. of their lives. ,
lisnosition of which the women s clubs
in charge will look after. Be a liberal
and cheerful giver.
Most of the churches will have
their Sunday School Chrirttnas enter
tainments and "teats" Sunday night,
and the Carolers will not start out
until after thi?se are over. The Sou
thern Methodist Sunday School, how
A Veteran Editor
Capt. Albert O. Allen, editor of the
New Madrid Record, passed the 74th
mile stone of his eventful life jour
ney on December 12th. We congrat
ulate the Captain, and trust his life
road stretches far along into the years
to come, and that all rough places
have been passed and only smooth
journeying awaits him. Captain Al
len was born and reared in Madison
county, and his life has been an ac
tive and useful one. As a youth he
cast his destinies with the Southern
States in the Civil war, and sorved
with distinction in the First Regi
ment of the old First Missouri Bri
gade (better known as Cocksill's Bri
gade, although General Cockrell was
preceded as brigade commander by
General Little, who was killed at the
battle of Iuka, General Martin Green,
who was killed during the siege of
Vicksburg, and General Brown, who
died shortly afterward from illness
contracted during the siege).
After the close of the war Captain
Allen and Charles E. Barroll, another
soldier of the old First Missouri Reg
iment, along in the latter part of the
sixties, started the publication of the
New Madrid Record, of which Cap
tain Allen is now, and has been con
tinuously one of the editors and own
ers, though he has been in public ser
vice much of the time during the in-
tcrvenine years For a number ol
The Real Stuff
Dr. John B. Graves received a let
ter from Russell Doss the first of tha
week, which brought additional as
surances of the apparently unusual
wealth of the mining property which
is owned by Dr. Graves, B. H. Mar
bury, J. C. Watson and Taylor Smith,
located in the Miami, Okla., lead and
zinc fiekh
Russell Doss has for the past few
months been located in that field, is a
hustler, and by this time he no doubt
has a fairly accurate estimate of the
value of most of the mining proper
ties in that entire field. In this let
ter to Dr. Graves he said that he had
visited the Ritz mine, (which is the
name of the mine owned by the above
named Farmington gentlemen) oa
both last Thursday and Friday; that
he found the mill running at full blast,
and carrying up a steady stream of
the "yellow stuff"; he also pronounced
the mill and the whole equipment as
being one of the very best in' that en
tire mining district. He also stated
that the Ritz mine is recognized as
one of the very best in that entire
field.
BUSINESS GAMBLING SPIRIT
The gambling spirit in business
transactions was clearly manifested
in Chicago last Friday in wheat trad
ing. On receipt of the news that
Premier Lloyd-George, in the English
House of Commons, supported the po
sition of Russia and France in prac
tically rejecting Germany's peae pro
posal, the price c.' wheat ijjfit up V
" l a bushel; and later in the day re
ports that Lloyd-George had left an
ipemY.g for Germany to ma' c a def
ile statement of terms, the wheat
bidding dropped 0 1-8 cents. If that
.... ... , .i ,.i I , ,x .L. . , .it ramhimo
is visiting relatives nere tor tnc noi- isii i uie iuit ..
idays. 1 then we don't know what gambling is.
years he was Chief Clerk of the State ms letter out substantiates n
V,rirJc w nnrW hnth A uditors other -information that nas reached
u iiX ,! c,;wf nnrt was him- Farmington in regard to the almost
January S .1 fJL "3 "the ely ongratulates these gentleme.
most methodical and efficient clerks mtouwho" sPa.cl0US Pock?te Rl'?at
most nieiiiuuK. I wealth will perhaps soon be pouring
'tince thtot ofhU torn of office 1 fen, their Miami mineral investments
V nas give: all his time to editing the There are none other whom we would
he is assisted by T TiZLZT -.II
son. ano in maxing "V i .um k... ii
!2 ?V H .hichhetasrveir'in ently builuing air castles, do not chide
;Stedn :.itiomh wtiyfi;
nown A'hrrt O. Allen many years Prove tu ' K rcal-
and has felt fortunate in counting him
cunoM his friends. Mar.y happy re- B. H. Marbury left Tuesday for
turns of the day, Alhert. Chicago on legal business.
I -
