we
Soil
SerfueL C
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1916. - 10 PAGES.
NUMBER 34.
TERRORIZES PASSKNGKRS.
Wild Mexican Slab Three Passen
Rem on the VlllWa Train,
Monday.
Conductor ltcn Hawkins and tils
crew had nn experience Monday
morning, December 18, on the south
bouml run that they will not llkcl,"
soon forget
' They had for passengers for St.
Joseph, two Mexican, one named M.
Garcia, nnd the other, nnmc un
known, hut known nn n section hand.
The two got on nt Vllllwn, nnd evi
dently from their notion bad blood ex
isted between them, but It illd not
devi lop to any extent until niter the
train left .Mound City.
When nlmut half way between
Mound City and IIIrcIow, things be
came so lively tlint the knife, stove
poker, etc., were brought Into rcqulsl
tlon to bring about n quietude.
Gnrcln drew his knife nnd Inflicted
terrible cuts on hid Mexican op-
Jionent. ami In the mclce, Dr. II. U.
lusscll, of Skldmore, received n cut
In the back, and a Mr. John Cnron,
of Nodaway, received had cut on
the arm, back nnd neck, nnd a mlmir
.wound In the oMomcn.
Consternation reigned In the smok
er of the Vllllwn train for a brief
period. Those behind the belliger
ents were enabled to Ret nut of the
way, while those In front scrambled
to Ret to the tops of the seats and
mnywhere they could, In order to Ret
out of the way of the two entertain
ers. (iarcln was finally knocked down
with n stove poker, and beaten almost
to Insensibility before he was sub
dued. By this time the train arrived at
IIIrcIow, and thn wounded Mexican
section nana was nut Into thn lintr
a-aRc car, nd lr. F. K. HoRan, of
iiirciow, tne company's physician,
sot on the train on his way to St,
.Tn,AIll MM. I It .... ..... t......
WW.. j., Mill, IIU II. Ulllt; KUb UUKl
dressing the wounds of the wounded
parties. Notwithstanding, Garcia
was shackled, he was violent anil al,
most unmanageable, anil seemed to
met like a mad man he Is simply a
Mexican.
On arrival of the train at Forest
City, Deputy Sheriff Cook was on
liann, anil Conductor Hawkins turn
nl Garcia over to him. who with
aids put him Into n car and brought
him to this eitv. where he vn Imlmvi
In Jail. Sheriff yRelvIn call-d Dr.
Kearney, who found the man 'badly
beaten tip about the head and face.
Ills wounds were dressed and ban
dagod, hut tho Doctor hail no sooner
leit, when, in his mail frenzy, he
tore them off, and has been a mean,
vicious, unruly prisoner, refusing to
take his food, and has been as uglv
as n man can lc. Deputy Sheriff
Cook was compelled to fell him to
the floor Tuesday evening to compel
obedience.
Dr. U'issell was ennbleil to return
to his home on the evening trnln.
while tho Mexican section hand and
Mr. Cnron were made Inmates of the
hlters hospital for treatment.
Tuesday morning, n Hurllne-ton dr.
tectlvc. accompanied by a Mexlcnn
Interpreter, arrived here and Is nt
work on the case to get what mro
matlon thev can from Garcia.
Iloth Dr. Russell nnd Mr. Ceron re.
celved their stnbs whiln aiding In
overnnwering the "wild mnn from
Mexico.
Prosecuting Attorney Tibbels was
here Tuesday to Inquire Into the case,
and Garcia will be prosecuted for
felonious assault
F.njoyrd Ills Visit.
We had n delightful vlttt, last Fn
unlay, from John Q. Trimmer, of
wound t.lty, who came down to say
"Howdy" to mnnv of his old friends
here, and to en toy a ride over our
naved streets. He came n a i ffcr
ent vehicle from that which he uscil
to ride ntiout In wren n lad in Jersey
or what he used when ho first came to
.Holt county some fifty years ago. Ho
rnmc In nn auto, driven by his son-in-law,
Will Meyer nnd son, of tho
Diiuon district. Aitnougn nr. Trim
mer wll lie HI venrs old In Fehrunrv
he enjoys the best of health, with
most excellent eyesight. Ho went
liack and enjoyed his summer vacn'
tlon In his native state. New Jersey
nnd en loved n visit with bis sister.
who Is now 01 years old, nnd Is In
splendid health; it was their first
meeting In 60 years.
Recovers Stolen Watch.
J. II. Miles, who wns"vYobbed In
broad dayllRht. near the Francis
street station In St. Joseph, August
5, nnd lost his .watch. wnB In St. Jo
seph, Tuesday nnd Wednesday, nnd
while thero recovered the watch he
had lost.
A negro, known to thn St. Joseph
ponce as "snowball" atewnrt, nn
swered tho dcscrlntlon Mr. Miles cavi
at that tlmo and vns nrrcftcd n short
tlmo later. Tho wntch was found In
Ills' possession, nnd 'although he nlead
his Innocence of the crlmo when first
arrested, tho negro later plead guilty
and was sentenced tvtho state peni
tentiary ror tnrco years. Mr. Mllos
did not learn of tho arrest and con
viction of tho black man until his In.t
visit to the city. Ho waa Informed
that tho criminal bad already served
two months of his term at Jefferson
Cltjv-Cralg Leader, December 15,
j mo.
. ' ST
Miss .Laura ITover. of Forest
i;ity, was the micst or Dr, J.. V,
Chandler and family and ITneln Won
Lunsford, In Oregon, Friday oMait
week.
Ltl!&-LP5'.r9H.t
The most momentous event since the beglnnlns of the war will bo credited In history to the pnst week-Knce propo-al ly the
central powers; Chancellor von llethmann-lldlwes's sugiic-tloii-. put It illrertly up to Premier Lloyd (leoree to iimiouiii e his
attitude toward tho war as his first official art since he reorganised the tlrllliti cabinet: I'reiK h nrralr also underwent a chance;
ilinl vivpM sm-renlnl Cenersl Joltre. tliouisti tieneral Petnlu's name was cntnldcrcd at drid; ns In England, Ave men now
form n supreme unr council, with Premier llrhitid at Us head, hi the war iiren ItonuistilsiH lot more Rimmd. while In (Irwvc the allies were said to
threaten Kins Cmnlniilliie with dethronement, harking Vrnlselo as president. Tlie Washington government started Investigation Into high co-t of IItIiis;
re) cuiitluiM-i lo lie bo-culled. Congressman Webb fathers a bill permitting combinations of extorters after the wur to rupture foielgn trade.
News Snapshots
Of the Week
mm greetings.
The Sentinel sends Its hearty
and sincere season's greetings
to ench and every patron,
whether advertiser or subscrib
er, or both, wishing for them a
Joyous and happy Christinas
season, and n prosperous and
happy New' Year.
To the suffering and the af
flicted we hope for n speedy re
covery. To the poor and less
fortunate, we Jiope that some
kindly heart will bring them
the season's good cheer, and
that the real Christmas spirit
may be each and every one's
portion.
Mankind Is always happier,
for having been happy; so that
If you mako them happy now,
you make them happy twenty
years henco by the memory of
It, Has not tho coming of Tho
Sentinel made you happy anil
the memories and associations
of the old family paper mado
you happier, and will not these
associations ever bo a bright
spot upon tho tublct of your
memory 7
So, to each and every one,
The Old Sentinel sends you Its
greetings for the season. May
each nnd every ono be happier
and more proserous during
1017.
llrraks Knre Joint,
Dr. C. I- Kvnns Is In winter tmnr-
ten for several weeks at least, hav
ing met with a narcldent that will 5ovemor
over 1800 miles), 0
t-!- c.Min.. cents n ftound.
1g mCl Wim n naiX UCm nmi Hill tmrimir mini . -niruuj iii,. .i., e-- t- .,,.
likely Impress him for some time to llm.ston of the Department of AgrJ-1 "I W.lr.1 It a (rUvcy
come, whether or no a icupw anouid culture. . .... I. ..." 1 li : '
go to church when the streets or Houston taxes tne position mat , '"j;. ......
wnlks nre slippery. i state or Missouri has no lllghwny
rii'iuiny morning ial, iecemner ) ,, nepnrinirni wiinin inr mmninK in
the Doctor nnd his good wife started the fcdcrnl aid law, and thnt the stne
to church; thev are both devout mem- cannot share In nny feilernl aid
ber of the M. K church, and they money until It gets a lllghwny Do
are not of the sugar or salt variety partment with nuthorlty to supcnlso
of members; the wenther conditions nnd direct rend construction,
havp to be of tho very worst sort to lloton finds the Missouri High
keep them away. On this occasion way Department, of which Col. Frank
U'P walks and streets were coveieil milium is riimniiiwiunrr nun only
advisory power ami mat nirincr nil-
Doing "Nicely.
I.lttlo Mario Hmlgln. who was so
badly hurncil two weeks ago. Is doing
as well as could possibly be expected.
She has been so bravo and patient In
nil her extreme suffering, and this
has been helped greatly by friends
who have so lovingly remembered her
with tlornl tokens, which have
wrought to her the r silent, but frae
rant messages of sweet rcmembrnnco
In her suffering. The bandages have
iiccn removed from her eyes, and sho
Is not only ablo to drink in their
sweet fragrance, but see them In all
their tieauty. Largo and beautiful
hunchci canio from her class-mates,
of tho Freshmen class, in tho class
colors, red and whlto roses; a largo
mined irom her former teacher, Mrs,
Lillian Aust n-Lurt s. of Ch rairo:
her Sunday school class; tho u. U. J
club: Mr. and Mrs. Durham, of Mourn
City; Nell Uoccker, of Council UlulU
Iowa; Mrs. R .(!. Ilulcy, Wm. Hos-
sick, I). I', Douyns; Genevieve Proud
or ht. Joseph; liencvleve lluchcr, Mrs,
M. L. Aicyer, Miss Mary h. West,
and Mav I'lussninn. of Marvville.
.-miss Mario desires ino sentinel to
thank each and every ono of tho
donors for this loving remembrance
mown ncr.
T
It Was
Wo guess A.
a Good Fight.
II. Greeno and D. P,
Dobyns, of this city, anil James fiuth
rie. of Mound City, well remember
tho Kith. lGth and 17th of December,
i yenrs ago. It was tho occasion of
thn battlo of Nashville. Tim former
wns a member of tho 49th Ohio; tho
second, tno 4uin mo., and trio latter.
n member of the U'M Mo. Cant. R
I j. Allen's comnany. Wo hclievo M'r.
Guthrie is tho only surviving member
oi tins comnany, which wns principal
Contain Allen. John Inehrnm. Georno
Adolph, nnd Christ. Meyer have long
sinco answered their last roll call. It
was on December 10, 1864, that Jolm
ingnram lost his nrm.ln a charge,
The Stork Came.
George Eckard and wife,, of Craig,
were nwutj giau on ucccmucr lis, D
a visit irom tno stork, wnicn 1
them a daughter.
On December 10, the stork vlsltcl
at the horns or n. A. Peters and wife,
of Corning, and left them a fino baby
A CIIAPTKR ON ACCIDKNTS.
I No Federal Aid. I cents per pound.
Ml.no-rl iiipv not nart c nate n the i "MXtn sone ti
$S'i.OO0,0CO npnortlonment of appro-' font per pound,
iirlniliinn ln Hie fnlrral government "Seventh .one (I
r ,i.. i... ..c ......i M.,i. fi cents nor imund.
i...ii. r...... . I..H.. ...u.i i. "I. irhth tone t
Teachers Hold County Meeting.
School wns dismissed Thursday anil
Frldnv of last week, on account cf
tho nnmial teachers' meeting, which
was held nt Mound City. There aro
utas MAi-rnl district meetings each
year, but the teachers from the wholo
iiiunty mil required to attend only tno
fnll meeting.
Tho mvetlnir was given a good
slnrt by nn nndre of welcome by
Attorney A. M. Tibbels, who assured
the teadieis thnt the people of Mound
city wnie pleased lo nave tnein mcci
in their city nnd would do nil In their
nower to entertain them while there.
Superintendent J. (!. Knsor, of Ore
gon, rei noncied nnd expressed mo
thanks or the trnchers for the cour
tesies that might be shown them dur
Ing their visit.
County Superintendent Mrs. Al
lierta Green-Mutphy then Rnve n very
Interi'stlng report of the work anil'
advancement of the Holt county
schools during the past year. Sho
expressed her appreciation of tho
help and co-operation or the tcacn-
its, wishing them greater success
than 'Ncr in nveicmnlng their rapuii
Increasing obligations. She closed by
giving them her rreen wnicn was tno
principles that guided her In Riving
her best service to the schools of
Holt county. F.very teacher present
felt Hint they were matcrlaly helped
by the kindly wonls of advice backed
ny so many years oi sucrcssiui ex
perience. Superintendent J. U. Crosen spoke
on the methods of teaching reading
felt that tlieyAero materially helped
as an exalnplc "Paul Revere Ride,
inn a. mnn ...II.,. innn iiemnnsirnirii nun ini- iniviivi
100 to 180(1 miles), t)lt, cI1I(Ilvn roui, w r nrouseil that
each child would reel that he hlmscir
was taking that historic ride.
The feature of the program waa
Corn Mel Patten In her lecture. "Tho
Place and Purpose of Rending." Miss
reader nnn lecturer oi
sub
as of
and
old. She declared that the cause of
the greatest number or failures in
i . i.... . .. i...t . .1,.
I
000 to 1400 miles), 1 1
clr-
con-
with n thin snow, and they started
The Doctor was careful to assist his
wife, she having n stirT knee, yp ar
riving at the Variety store corner,
thev concluded to avoid the approach
; the side walk, owing to it cieva
on bImivo the street and curb line.
and they took the paved street.
The Doctor and wife hnd proceeded
down the-street only a short distanco
he was carefully aiding his wife, to
prevent her from falling, and when
nbout opposite tho dividing lino be
tween the Variety store and the Phil
brick bnrber shop, the Doctor slipped
and fell' to the street. The Doctor
knew at once thnt something hnd hap
pened, tnni meant much suucring and
tedious confinement.
Doctors Wood and Chandler ban
nered to be nearby at the time, nnd
they hurried to the old of the Doctor.
unariey I'altersnn, wim his enr, was
near to the place of the accident, and
the Doctor was placed In the car and
taken to his home, and his wlfo was
helped to the home.
The Doctors went after the Doctor
to see If the DiKtors could do any-
th nir for the Doctor. Im- ev ng It' a
rase where the admonition, "physi
cian heal thyself," would not apply.
examination revenled the fact that
tho Doctor had broken his left knee
nint. tibia, which means much suf
fering and long confinement for tho
Doctor. Dr. Thntchor. n brother-in-
law, soon Joined Doctors Chandler
and ooi! and they did what was nec.
essary In such injuries, and he is do
ing ns wen as could lie expected in
such enses, '
On Janunrv lit. lfltli. Mrs. Evans.
while visiting at Savannah.met with
an accident, ny railing down a Blair
way, injuring the left knee In a sim
ilar manner to thnt which befell her
husband last Sunday.
fhe poJtK-genera. shall have "n.',?... 'SfJPSS
hor ty to require publishers to Tl..l in . .. thnt wi
i non':,. er h'ro'vlslon.. the hill In- '''ite
Accent's am,l!,,un,?tn!ai; ' n.iing or the
from i to N cents a pound, making ii.hu nt ilm rhllil to irrasn tho
them thlnl class matter, Instead of "tno ton ".'uttto grades." ftiS"
liarcel post. mennlng of the prlnleil page.
Accidentally Shot.
Clarence, the oleven-venr-nld son of
Mr. nnd Mrs. Charles Dinwiddle, llv.
Ing on tho Henry Conk nlare. lust
souin oi avm, is sunering irom a
painful gun shot wound, vhleli came
to nt mm a pecullnr mnnner. i
On Friday morning of last week,
December. 15, Clarence, who had out
some trans, started out to run his
traps, rnrrylng with him n 12'i target
niie, wnicn ho carried in his hand,
holding It about tho renter of tho
barrel, and just as ho pass
oil out of the yard gate,
tho weapon slipped from his
hand, tho butt strikinir the ground.
cniiBlng It to discharge. Tho young
inn wa Kinkcn into, the home, nnd Dr.
Kearney whs summoned, who hurried
to thn scene, and on examination It
wns found that tho hulet had entered
tho right breast, above tho nipple,
anil ranged upward. It wns deemed
best to havo an X-rny examination,
nnu no was laKcn to u .inscpn by
Dr. Kearney, where (ho X-iny was
applied, nnd the bullet was lo
cated between tho collnr hone, and
shoulder blade. Owing to tho dcllcato
location of tho ball, It wns thought
best not to remove It nt present, and
ho has been brought back to his homo
where he Is resting as well as could
possibly bo expected.
Tho ladles of tho Woodvillo Tres-
byterian church will havo a Bake
Sale at Harvey Evans" store, next
aaturaay, December zs.
Miss' Mildred, ilauchter of Mr.
and Mrs. Geonra Mever. of Mound
City, Is home for the Yulctldo season,
irom i no wara-lieimniu uouege, at
ixasnvuie, icnncssco.
thority must be vested in the high
way commissioner before Missouri
ran get any of the government's road
money.
The position taken by Houston will
require the legislature to amend the
State Highway Department law In
such manner ns to bring It Into com
pliance with tho federal law.
Tho county courts and the county
highway boards which am provided
for by tho act of April 17, 101.1, seem
to hnve complete control over both
the location and improvement of
roads In general, although by tho art
of March '22. 101 H. improvements
costing not less than $1,000 a mile are
required tn be approved by the high
way commissioner as wen ns tho
county court" It thus appear that,
while tho State Highway Department
may render assistance tn the counties,
it has no Independent authority to
select roads for Improvement, and Is
entirely without authority to super
vise construction work.
It is absolutely ersentinl under the
feilernl aid rnnd act that the High
way Department of a state ..hall 1h
able to agree with the sccrctnry of
ngnrunuro upon inc roans to im con
structed and the character and meth
od of construction, nnd that it aim
shall have authority to supervise con
struction work.
The nileral department Is unable
to reach the conclusion that the High
way Department of the Stato of Mis
souri has adequate authority In any
of these matters, but, on tho con
trary, Is Inclined to tho view that ad
ditional legislation is necessary to
give ft such powers as will enable It
to perform the duties required by the
feilernl road aid act.
u i
One Cent luteal Postage.
Ono cent postage for local Jlr:.t
class mall ilellverlen and n zone hvh.
ten of rates for second class matter,
which Is expected to greatly increase
tho charges for magazines and other
periodicals having n natlnu-wido cir
culation, nre provided for In the nn.
mini post ofllce appropriation hill as
virtually completed In tho committee.
Tho measure carrying appropriations
totalling about $,'17,000,000 will like
ly bo reported to tho House thla
week.
Under the one-cent nostacre nrovl.
slon, tho rnto on letters and other
moll matter of the first class, when
deposited In nny post ofllco or branch
post ouice or letter box or post odlco
in the delivery district, for delivery
within tho limits of the post ofllce,
city or rural delivery district, would
do cut in nnu,
I ho none proposal for handling
newspapers and magazines, which
now nny a uat rato or one cent a
pound. Is regarded as one of thn most
radlcnl changes In post ofllce rates in
years. It divides tlioN country Into
eight zones, with rates chargeable
ranging from ono cent for 300 miles
tn C cents for 1P00 milos or more.
Tho bulk of dally newsnanvrs. tho
committee believes, will not do affect
ed because they do not circulate be
yond a .lUO-mila radius. ,
ino li III provides! "mat all news.
papers, magazines and other, nubllca.
lions reguinny onmmed to tne malls
as matter of the second class, when
....!).! I... !,. nl.lu... .1..I1 1
iiiaiii-i, uji tuu jiuuiioiii. , oilttll UCJu
arter do subject to tne following raws
Thnm.liiv nrtcmmin. Mr. G. W.
Ilnnvis. fnnner rountv superintendent
of tills county, gave a demonstration
VanVlcklr Heating System,
W. II. VanVlckle received his final " "" " " ? 11 Xreit fi
patent papers Saturday for a heating canned freU In such
ayrtrm Ulch he has perfected. Some T'JZZa in one could
nrt'M" 111:1 lit' Itiriitu I'Ul'i in viiwt. sll a s li.. in llnll
.'. . 1 inn ui iinti-iiT Liu inrunni 111 uvhsiii
guaranteed his patent ngnt nnu at ., - . K.mllnir out bulletins on aarl
that time the manufacture of tho ays- cn,XccU that would "be of
innt tune tne 11 nnu.uciurc 01 1110 py.- cUurBj objects that would bo of
SNpHHtTu th- wort ercellent ?,,,(? ." -terintendent of
fenture of .Mr. VanVlckle's plan. It rAt Xj "" uP snokc F?ldav
rudlntlon from u-stove and substl
tutes scientific ventilation and com
nlrte c rcu hitlon of n r,
A stove will be sold with the sys
trm when required, but nny large up
nome tntstnkes often mnife by teach
err and offered many suggestions by
whlch these mistakes might be avoid-
, 1 r .. 1 , I .. .. 4 1 V,.
right stove .may be used to fural h 'w JiKuVaV' It wMta
' '.i "''1..T1 1. i. ..V .1.1 difficult matter tn arrn
rum' 1111.1 linn piiii'ii, iiuiiii 111 ,111
top and bottom
legs support
arrange a meet
s wi eld is iMiund nt the , , ,,,,,. ,.,. tlmn WM
om by enstlngs. Three .fn ni Mmmd City by Misses Dor
' JiT'n? rUfcU..lX t Mound City by Misses Doro
inches from the floor. About one.
third of this shield is used for a rtW- rmhPr of nrii-s for ' work
,s , , , 1 i 1 was g ven to the vnrous schools by
enables that much of the shield to bo sVpofl Undent Mrs. Murphy. A
thrown back to affor.1 1 bri-ct radio lim , ' , nf ',playel
when desired. , 1 ho direct rndliitlon wnrk w,lIc, t0MllX of'driw.
mnkes It miss bio for e lib ren. nttend- ".. . .... 1 1.. ....1 i,..i .....i, i
big hchool In the country to warin Dn 0xltillt that would compare
themselves quickly upon ai riving at rftVornbly with that of nny county In
111., firhnnl. I . .
A vent for air. In the form or a
ami passcu from Inside the shield
nnd passes from Inside hi shield
through an opening n th wn 1. (Jut-
side the wall, the box Is open on the
lower side of an air Intlike nnd In
the stnle.
Tho association held its lnt ses
sion Sntunlny morning, whlrli waa
devoted to llnlshlnir un the business
left over from tho previous days.
Much favorable comment wns heard
among the tearbers and patrons on
lion
.... ....... ... IIMinilL? llll? It'll! II
sine the shield It is open nt the ton i.m i... ... ,1 t.i .....1.
. 1. . 1 , . 1 1 . 1 inr I'Alllniin in nit- n,m ttuin. nui,
to penult the cold, flesh o r to Pass , )u,y 1)roUll of ner
up between the stove and the shield. ,,, ;, ,,'. wiv-Jncement, for
It Is henteil without lo.lnir its purity
nnd is thrown into the room from
the top. Another vent, In the shape
of an Inverted funnel, with a stove
pine attached at the ton. leads from
a point near the floor to the chimney,
nnd this drawn the foul air off and
which County Superintendent Mrs.
Murphy deserves thanks.
1tr.ru111r.il.
or postage, tno zone system now ap
plying to parcel post matter to na
adapted also to second-class, matter:
"Locatr first, second 'and third cone
(under 300 miles), 1 cent per pound.
"Fourth zono (300 to 600 miles), 2
cents per pound.
."Fifth zono (600 to 1000 miles), 3
Journalism Sixty Years Ago.
Tim Dninlin lice, nf December 10.
nut of the loom through tho chimney, hns nn interesting article on early
A peculiar, but coiiimendable fen Inurnnllsm In Omnlin. and in this con
turu of the plan is that tho heated air nertlon mentions n character related
usccwU to the celling, Is reflected to to some of the rltlrens of Oregon at
the opposlto wall and down: thus ilm urnsent time, l'dltor Iloscwater.
I heating tho other side of the room of the lice, speaks of having tho prlv-
irom inetsiovo urst, wim tno door liege or looking over copies or tna
In tho shield closed, very little direct old Nebraskn Democrat, which bora
heat Is fell near the- stove and seats the Imprint "Vol. 1, No. 18. Novem
near the stove arc as comfortabln as Iter 18, IBM," also a ropy of tho lie
any In tho room. nulillcnn. dated Mnv t. IBM).
A company hns been formed In Tho Democrat wns published "every
Kansas City, Kansas, for the mnnii- Thursday" at "Omaha City, Nchras
facturo of tho system and will bo kn Territory," by Hadley D. Johnson,
known ns the VnnVlckle-Wolsenborn who wns also the Territorial printer.
Co. Mr. Welsenborn. tho other mem- The publisher. Hndlcv D. Johnson.
ber of the firm, is n Kansas City mnn- w-ns tho father of Mrs. Anna K. Ir
uiaciurer. ine company has been in vine, Mrs. fi. 11. rnro and uougiaa
corporated with a capital stock of (Dug) Johnson, of this city.
$(.1,000. Another factory recently In the early davs Mr. Johnson waa
commenced their manufacture in. one of tho big, brainy men of thn
Denver nnd thla company Is Incorpor- Nebraska Territory, and attained
uted under tho name of VnnVIckle, prominence ns n writer and a leader
muck & weisennorn. it is tno intcn- 111 Democratic circles.
tlon to commence manufacturing
them In Chicago soon. Two fiomi SaiCB
onornt o.n'' Kramer. Monday,
ai lonesome, Woods. I.Ialr nnd Kin,- W . Ln"f " ' ffi
fy Mi00?-. 1icy. aro saw to bo.giv i.i 1 v',
5 ml ?-.UingyColonel . Rahb ,tho auctioneer.
and fiolnnulo Ami .,nnrh,finn Vn.. informs US that Ktl lint RUMd thO
Sn, systems nra now n oneration7 ,R U,K I "ut. " " HsWW.
r-nli- Ijimlot- Dr'nmlini. tr. loin ' coming yeaning neiicrs ami steers
t.rnlg Jodcr, December 10, 1310. kroueht kQ . Tlieso helfera
and steers would bo yearlings about
nt. r..i In., n... . 1 1.
.tiuv.'u unit 1,1111 iiibv u. .nn yi-ur.
George Gelvin hna emit the Jail, nnd "W.JU Kolhiier's snc, Tuesday, Do- j
has moved Into his little cottago ceml' 1. wa fj0, w.p tnded, ;)J
home, whoro ho and his wire wtu now V"',uu".'5.uo "i" ra,D yn,
enjoy tho comforts of real Ufa. Tho w.m M "toe than he expected,
lail is now In charge of fiherlff-clrt clnel Babb Informs us thnt milk
Ben CrouBcr, who will become effl- luj" J"- BUIU t,D0U lo. J
clallv the "ihcrlff on January l. head, and brood sows avomffed M5
m . . 1 riAf hAtlff
uoorge icon as nappy as ciara in J V "v""j
high tide, and says ho It going vol
Mov'averv hoar in bis aid hnmn.-l Pi1, I... .maiiU,! n,..lil.
and. It will- be "love In a cottage" in with Mooro & Kreek, groecre, and a,i
I now at work.
