VOL. XX NO. 238.
U-45 SUNK BY
DESTROYERS
German Vessel Reported to
Have Been Lost off the
. French Coast
NANTES DESPATCH
BRINGS REPORT
The U-45 Recently Sank
Steamers off Saint
Nazaire
Taris, Doc. 22. The German subma
rine U-45 has been sunk by destroyers,
according to a Nantes dispatch. This
submarine recently sank steamers off
Saint Nazaise.
CANNONADING LIVELY
NEAR LOUVEMENT
There Was Also an Intense Artillery
Duel on the Monastir Front Thurs
day, Says Paris Official.
Report.
Paris, Dec. 22. There was lively can
nonading in the region of Louvement,
north of Verdun, during last night, the
official statement says.
On the Macedonian front artillery
duels of great intensity occurred north
of Monastir on Thursday, the statement
eays.
MANY BOMBS DROPPED.
By British Aviators in the Mesopotamia
Battle Field.
London, Dec. 22. The following offi
cial communication concerning the opera
tions in Mesopotamia was issued last
night:
"During the night of Sunday British
airplanes successfully bombed the ene
my's river craft west of Kut-El-Amara.
Monday and Wednesday strong rceon
, naisances were made to the west of
the Shumran bend of the Tigris.
"During the last few days the enemy's
positions about Sannayyat and Kut and
his shipping west of the latter place
were heavily bombarded with satisfac
tory results. The bridge over the Hal
river near its junction with the Tigris
was destroyed by our fire.'
GREAT BATTLE IN DOBRUDJaZ
Central Powers Driven from Some Posi
tions Recently Won.
Fctrograd, via London, Dec. 22. A vio
lent battle is in progress in northern
Dobrudja, where the offensive was as
umed by the forces of the central pow
ers, which at first carried several heights
but later were driven from a portion of
the captured ground, the war office an
nounced yesterday.
Russian attacks in efforts to gain con
trol of the remaining heights are going
on.
On the west bank of the Danube in
the region north of Buzeu and at other
point there has been fighting, chiefly
between advanced detachments.
HAVE RIGHT TO RESIST.
British Government Insists on Stand on
Armed Vessels.
London, Dec 22. "The government
cannot admit any distinction between the
rights of unarmed merchant ships and
those armed for defensive purposes," said
Sir Edward Carson, first lord of the ad
miralty, replying to a question yesterday
In the House of Commons. Continuing,
Sir Edward said:
"Merchant captains enjoy an imme
morial right to defend their vessels
against attack, visit or search by any
means in their power, but they must not
seek out the enemy to attack him, that
function being reserved to ships of war.
So far as I am aware all the neutral
powers take the same view."
The first lord said the British govern
ment was devoting its continuous atten
tion to the theory and practice of defen
sive armament.
Sir Edward said no doubt it waa the
aim of the German government to con
fuse defensive and offensive action, with
the object of inducing neutrals to treat
armed vessels as if they were men-of-
DAMAGED BY MINE.
American Steamship Kansan in Distress
Off French Coast.
Nantes, via London, Dec. 22. The
American steamship Kansan has been
damaged by striking a mine. An effort
is being made to remove part of her
cargo and take her to dock.
The Kansan was damaged badly in the
bow and one hold ws flooded.
The Kansan sailed from Boston, Dec. ,
for St. Nazaire. She i owned by the
American-Hawaiian Steamship Co. of
New York. She was built at Camden,
X. .?., in 1003. Her gross tonnage is
7,103.
BRITISH CAPTURE TOWN.
El Arish, Located 90 Miles East of Suei
CanaL
Ixmdon. Dee. 22.-El Arish. located W
mile east of the Sues canal, was cap
tured yesterday by the British.
BRITISH SHD? SUNK.
The Itenus Was in the British Govern
ment Service.
London. Dec. 22 Lloyds reports the
sinking of the British steamer I tonus
ia the service of the British frernment.
3B
r
BRITISH TROOPS WIN
IN OUTLYING REGIONS
While the winter weather is
causing military opera tinna on
most of the lighting fronts to lack
features of interest, considerable
activity is developing in the sec
tors far enough south to admit
energetic campaigning. On the Ti
gris tho British, after a hng pe
riod of quiet, have recently pushed
forward close to Kut-elAmanj and
are continuing the attack on
Turkish forces in that region, evi
dently in the hope, of resuming the
long delayed inarch toward Bag
dad. . .
Now another field of activity is
demanding attention with to day's
announcement that the British
forces have captured El Arish in
Egypt on the Mediterranean. The
taking of El Arish establishes the
British front well toward the bor
dcr of Palestine and marks the
furthest eastward penetration by
the British forces in this area Bince
the Turkish raids began.
NOW FULLY APPROVED.
Upper Danish House Votes Favorably on
West Indies Sale.
Copenhagen, Dec. 22, via London.
iv. i, nf the Danish Parliament
have now approved the sale of the Dn-
ish West Indies to me l nueu jutim.
The Landsthing, or upper house, voted
fuvnrahlv noon the proposition yester
day. 40 to 19. The bill for ratification
nl t-lio r..ntv nrovhlinir for the sale was
adopted by the Folketlring Wednesday.
trinn. Ttpe. 22. Approval by
Denmark's Parliament of the treaty by
which the United States will acquire the
Danish West Indies opens the way for a
r.t antra nf rat iflca tions between
pi ,,,1L'V ..... .....If,.
the two governments and consummation
of negotiations tnat nave uecn !"
reM intermittently since the Civil war.
The United States Senate already has
given its approval, and as soon as the
formal exchanges have taken place the
administration will press measures in
Congress appropriating the purchase
price, $25,000,000, and providing for the
institution of Jin American territorial
government on the islands.
American naval strategists tor jem
Viovo retrnriled possession of this little
archipelago, lying i0 miles east of Porto
Rico, as absolutely necessary to precni
onv .'rimwii nower from acauiriiur it.
and moreover, to establish there a great
naval wvse and coaling station ror
United States fleet.
GREATER RESOURCES SHOWN.
Large National Banks Gained 9 Per Cent
in Short Time.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 22. The first
100 national banks of the country in size,
formerly congested in a few financial
unian Knt now scattered anions 33
cities in 22 states, increased their re
sources between the bank calls of Sept.
12 and Nov. 17 by foau.ww.uuu, or iwui
9 per cent.
In a statement last night analyzing re
turns from the last call, Controller Wil
liams pointed out that with one excep
tion the resources of the 100 largest in
stitutions are in excess of $20,000,000
a,.r, nr mnr than S2.000.000.000 alto
gether. New York state leads the list
with 23 out of the 100. rcnnsyivanw
has 18.
"The healthy distribution of the
wealth and banking resources of the
United States," reads the statement,
"which has been brought under the fed
eral reserve system is being manifested
in many ways.
"Among the 100 largest banks there
are only five which did not show an in
crease. Three of the banks showing re
ductions were located in New York and
two in California."
CURTAILS BOX CAR SHIPMENTS.
Boston & Albany Acts to Hasten Return
of Cars.
Boston, Dec. 22. In order to meet the
demands of the western railroads for box
cars, the Boston & Albany railroad last
night issued an order to its freight
agents greatly curtailing the shipments
of outgoing box car freight and ordering
the prompt return of every car to its re
spective road. The order folows:
"Effective at once, you will decline to
furnish any box cars for loading carload
freight on team tracks, or for loading
carload or less than carload freight on
private sidings to lie forwarded to points
on or via the Boston & Albany railroad.
"You will also decline to accept any
carload freight for loading through
freight houses.
"Every car, as fast as it is made emp
ty, must be moved promptly in the
homeward direction according to home
route.
"The object of this is to get cars west
for shippers who are not getting their
full quoU of cars, and is in accordance
with directions irom me American non
way association commission on car serv
ice." AGAIN HOLDS JIMINEZ.
Villa Is Also Reported to Be Preparing
Torreon Campaign.
.Washington, Dec. 22. State depart
ment advices yesterday indicated that
Villa is again in possession of dimmer
and Santa Rosalia, south of Chihuahua,
and that he is planning a campaign
against Torreon, where there is only a
small Carranza garrison. Telegraphic
communication with Torreon was inter
rupted yesterday, but the last reports
from there said the British consul, who
has been representing American inter
est, was starting south with some 200
foreigners, mostly Americans and Ger
mans. TO BE ORDAINED.
Arthur Nolin of Swanton to Be Roman
Catholic Priest.
Swanton, Dee, 22. Arthur Nolin, son
of Mrs. Louis Nolin, will be ordained to
the Roman Catholic priesthood at Bur
lington Saturday morning by Bishop
Rice, and be will say his first mass at
the Church of the Nativity in Swanton
on Christmas eve. He is graduate of
St. Michael's college. Winooski, and
Grand seminary in MontreaL
BAE1E DAILY TIME
11AHKIV VERMONT, FRIDAY. DECEMBER 22, 1916.
MUST CONFER
WITH ALLIES
Before Great Britain Will
Make Any Statement on
Wilson Peace Note
B0NAR LAW TOLD
HOUSE OF COMMONS
When Interrogated Whether
an Answer Would
Be Made
London, Dec. 22. The British govern
ment will make no statement at present
in regard to President Wilson's peace
note, considering it a question to be
dealt with only in communication with
the other membens of tho entente. An
nouncement to this effect was made in
the House of Commons to-dav by An
drew Bonar Law, chancellor of tho exche
quer and the government lender in the
House. Law had been asked whether a
statement would be made regarding the
American note.
Parliament wag prorogued this after
noon without the members being given
any further information regarding Wil
son's noto or what action the government
contemplated in respect to it. The
speech from the throne was one of the
briefest on record. It expressed confi
dence in ultimate victory of the allies
and a determination to prosecute the war
"until we have vindicated the rights so
ruthlessly violated bv our enemies and
established the security of Europe on a
sure foundation."
While it cannot be said that the note
was received with anything resembling a
feeling of resentment, the Associated
Press is enabled tosay that its sudden
and unexpected receipt puzzled official
dom, which was unprepared for it so
close upon the heels of the German peace
proposals. It is. therefore, believed the
note will not interfere with the plans of
the allies for sendinir a joint reply to the
German proposals, which will probably
be done before I hristmas.
It is understood that opinion in official
circles is that the speeches delivered
within the last fortnight by the spokes
men of all the allied governments, the
latest by Premier Lloyd -George, form
the most effective replies to the propos
als of Chancellor Von Hethmaiin-Ilollweg
and really state the position of all the
allios regarding any peace movement
from any quarter.
OTHER NATIONS MAY
JOIN AMERICA
Representatives of Switzerland and Spain
in Washington Have Repeatedly
Conferred with American
Officials.
Washington. D. C. Dec. 22. The ques
tion very much to the for to-day in the
discussion of Wilson's peace notes was
whether European neutrals would pre
sent a united appeal. The Spanish and
Swiss representatives here have been at
the state department repeatedly since
the proposals came out and probably
know the full plans of this government.
The gradual clarification among the
entente diplomats here of the president's
purpose and the indications that they
will advise their governments to reply in
riroved a source of deep
gratification, as it was pointed out both
in the noto itself and in linsing s ex
planation that one of the dangeu was
that the allies would consider the step a
pro-German move. Every effort was
was to remove this impression and have
the note considered apart from any other
events. The entente diplomats, at first
very fearful, have now accepted this
view.
UNITED STATES
DOES NOT PROPOSE
TO QUIT NEUTRALITY
Secretary of State Lansing Issued Second
Note Explaining What He Had
Meant About Country Being
Near "Verge of War."
Washington, D. C, Dec. 22. President
Wilson's note to the belligerents, urging
discussion of peace, was officially inter
preted yesterday as not bearing any
threat that the United States might be
forced to enter the war because of the
continued invasion of its rights by the
warring powers on both sides.
This interpretation was made late yes
terday by Secretary Lansing in a formal
statement issued to overtake what were
characterized as widespread misconstruc
tions placed on one given out earlier in
the day saying that because of the in
creasingly critical position of the United
States as a neutral, it waa cnuueo. iu
know exactly what each belligerent seeks
in order that it might regulate its con
duct for the future.
Secretary lansing's final statement,
formally prepared and issued after he
had been called to the White House for
a conference with President Wilson, de
clared that he had not intended to inti
mate that the United States was consid
ering any change in its policy of neutral
ity and "that the whole tone and lan
guage of the note were sufficient to indi
cate ita purpose without further com
ment on his part.
The second note reads as follows:
"I have learned from several quarters
that a wrong impression was made by
the statement which 1 made this morn
ing, and 1 wish to correct that impres
sion. -Mr intention was to suggest the very
direct and necessary interest which this
country as one of the neutral nations has
in the possible terms which the belliger
ents may have in mind, and I did not in
tend to intimate thst the government
was considering any change in its policy
of neutralitr which it has consistently
pursued in the face of constantly increas
ing difficulties.
J regret that my words wer pea to
any other construction as I now realize
that they wi, 1 think that the whole,
tone and' language of the note to tho Im'I
ligerents show the purpose without fur
ther comment on my part. It is need
less to say that I am unreservedly in
support of that purpose and hope to see
it accepted."
Entente diplomats, at first at an utter
loss how to handle the unexpected situa
tion, became convinced that a clearer un
derstanding of the necessities and pur
poses of tho United States proved that
their fear of a moo favorable to Ger
many waa not contemplated, and that
this country would not try to force peace
on Europe. Their view grew that the
United States feared that unless the
peace proposals co through now, a period
of ruthlessness and retaliation may set in
on both side which will inevitably force
this country into action.
WOULD REVEAL TERMS
IF ENTENTE FAVORS
Central Powers are Said to Be Ready to
Tell at Once on What Plan They
Will Terminate War.
London, Dec. 22. An Exchange Tele
graph dispatch from The Hague says it
is announced semi-officially that should
the entente, in its repiy to the peace pro
posals of the central powers, leave the
door open for negotiations, Germany will
make her chief peace terms immediate-
The statement of Sir Edward was
made in reply to the question whether,
in view of the attitude of the German
government, the admiralty would take
steps to overcome objections raised by
any neutral country to the arming of
British merchant ships for defense, and
arrange to give such shipg adequate pro
tective armament and regularize the sta
tus of their officers and crew.
The point made concerning Germany's
attitude was deduced from the German
reply in giving assurances that Capt.
Blaikie of the steamship Caledonia would
not be put to death on account of the
fact that his vessel was reported to have
attempted to ram a German submarine.
It was implied that had the steamship
Brussels been armed, a different view
might have been taken regarding the ac
tion of her master, Capt. Fryatt, who
was put to death after conviction on the
charge that the Brussels attempted to
ram a German submarine.
WANTS PROPOSAL PUBLIC.
Memben of Parliament Inclined to Con
sider Peace Offer.
London, Dec. 22. There was further
discussion of Germany's peace offer in
the House of Commons last night. Sir
John A. Simon, on behalf of himself and
a group of followers, gave unqualified
support to Premier Lloyd George's speech
in the House of Commons and then Hast
ings 15. L. Smith, liberal member for
Northampton dressed in his military un
form, sounded a new note urging that
the German proposals be allowed to see
the light of day. Andrew Bonar Law,
chancellor of the exchequer and member
of the war council, promptly roso Jn tie
half of the government and declared that
if the tone of Mr. Smith's speech per
meated the country, then all the blood
and treasure which had been spent in
the war would have been spent in vain.
"My understanding," said Mr. Smith,
in his address, "is that the reply of the
premier to the German note was to tho
effect that the door was not yet closed.
That is a wise answer, and the best pos
sible answer at this stage. The Ger
man proposals should be allowed to
see the light of day. If they disclose an
aggressive purpose, then the German
people will realize that they are not suf
fering and dying for their mere exist
ence, as they have been told. If
it were put to a vote of the men at the
front whether provided we could obtain
guarantees that our 'honorable obliga
tions would be fulfilled we should then
make a serious effort to get the parties
together, then I am certain such a propo
sition would be carried by virtual unan
imity. "I am not prepared to face the pros
pects of a military decision which means
a war of attrition, unless I am convinced
there is no other way out. I believe in
the security scheme by which the na
tions agree together to guarantee all and
all guarantee each. An attempt to hold
the central empires down by a military
decision, followed by economic strangu
lation, would mean carrying forward into
pea,ce all hostilities and hatreds of the
war. It would divide Europe into two
hostile camps and would make war more
inevitable and deadly than ever and
would fasten conscription and militarism
forever on all nations."
ENGLISH PRESS SKEPTCIAL.
One Paper Considers Nation Deeply In
sulted by Wilson Note.
London, Dec. 22. The Daily News,
which is the nearest to pacifist among
the London newspapers, says to-day re
garding President Wilson's note:
"As a liberal newspaper which has al
ways made a special feature of endeav
oring to bring Great Britain and Amer
ica close together, nd through evil re
port as well as good has championed the
progressive ideals of the I'nited States
in this country, we ask our friends across
the Atlantic to believe us when we say
no American states paper in our gen
eration has Ken calculated to cause so
much pain, not merely to Englishmen
but to liberal opinion throughout south
ern and western Europe.
"The note is, in effect, however, dif
ferent by its intention, an appendix to
that lately received from Berlin."
Saying that it is not based on the
grounds of humanity or injury to the
United States the Daily Chronicle says;
"We are bound to observe that with
only the recent exr-ntion in the matter
of the Belgian slave raids, in which the
enemy flouted his remonstrances, Presi
dent Wilson never in the face of unpar
alleled openings intervened on the ground
of humanity before.?
The newspaper considers President
Wilson's statement that the objects of
both belligerents are virtually the same
is most painful for liberal European lib
erals and adds:
"The president did not intend his
words as an insult, but they are deeply
insulting none the less, and none of the
allied peoples can be expected to relish
them. The good intentions of the note
do not Impugn. Behind all its infelicities
its gross opportunities stand. The
figure f the statesman we respect,
but he hat made a profound mistake,"
TEN PEOPLE
PERISHED
When Fire Broke Out in the
Kansas Masonic Home
at Wichita
EIGHT VICTIMS
WERE CHILDREN
There Were 92 Persons in
Building When Fire
Started
Wichita, Kan., Dec. 22. Ten persons,
eight of them children, and two aged
women are believed to have lost their
lives in a fire which early to-day de
stroyed the Kansas Masonic home. Ninety-two
presons were asleep in the build
ing when the fire started.
STOCK MARKET WAS
LESS NERVOUS
Shares Recently Under Greatest Pressure
Recovered From Two to Eight
PoinU at. To-day's
Opening.
New York, Deo. 22. The opening
prices on the stock exchange showed a
sharp recovery from the closing transac
tions of yesterday. Gains of two to
eight points jvere registered by the shares
recently under the greatest pressure.
MRS. DANIEL MARSHALL
Died at Waterbury Center of Complica
tion of Diseases.
Waterbury, Dec. 22. Mrs. Daniel Mar
shall died yesterday at her home in Wa
terbury Center of a complication of dis
eases. She was born, Ellen Gray, in
Massachusetts on Aug. 2.", 1S52, being
the daughter of Henry and Maria Gray.
She came with her parents to Waterbury
when she was quite young and on Aug.
31, 1874, shemarried Mr. Marsha!.
The deceased leaves her husband and
three children, as follows: George, of
Johnson and Arthur and Frank of Wa
terbury, also three sisters and three
brothers, as follows: Mrs. Frank Blake
ley of Colchester, Mrs. George McBride
of Burlington. Mrs. George Graves of
Winooski and Henry, Walter and George
Grav of Massachusetts.
Tho funeral will be held Saturday aft
ernoon at 1 o'clock, Rev. B. T. Parker,
pastor of the Baptist church at the Cen
ter, officiating. Interment will be at the
Center.
HONORED THEIR ANCESTORS.
Middlebury Historical Society Held a
Formal Observance.
Middlebury, Dec. 22. The 20Gth anni
versary of Forefathers' day was observed
here yesterday at the Congregational
church under the auspices of the .Middle
bury Historical society. The opening
meeting was held in the church at 5
o'clock, when an address was delivered
bv Rev. C. C. Adams of the First church,
Burlington. His subject was "The Pil
grim's Way of Finding His Soul."
After the service a banquet was
served in the parlors of the church by
the ladies of the Labaree society, covers
being laid for 130. President Thomas of
Middlebury college was toastmaster.
Rev, II. C, Newell, paBtor of the church,
rpokc on "Pilgrim Mothers," and other
'talks were given by Judge C. L. Button,
J. N. Bnrss of the state industrial school,
and Rev. Dr. Adams of Burlington.
BODY BROUGHT TO VERMONT.
Albert Shipman Was Formerly Resident
of Westminster. ,
Bellows Falls, Dec. 22. Word was re
ceived here to-day that the body of Al
bert Shipman would arrive to-day from
Chicago. Mr. Shipman was for many
years a resident of Gagevillc in the town
of Westminster and he represented that
town in the legislature of BIOS. He was
employed for a long time by the Inter
national Paper company. For several
years he had resided with his daughter,
Miss Jennie Shipman, at Chicago. She
was formerly a teacher in the Bellows
Falls high school.
JURY COULD NOT AGREE.
In Case Charging Malpractice Against
George W. Bolton.
St. .Tohnsbury, Dec. 22. The Caledo
nia county court jury in the malpractice
case of the state against Dr. George W.
Bolton of West Burke came in at noon
yesterday, the foreman announcing a die
agreement. The case was given to the
jurv at 3:30 o'clock Tuesday afternoon.
It is possible that the case will 1 tried
again and if so it will be at this term
of court and will probably be started on
January 9. Unless this case is retired
the last jury case of the terra has been
hea rd.
CAUGHT IN SHAFTING.
(Forrest Merrill InsUntly Killed in Lum
ber Plant in Lakeport, PI. H.
I-akeport. N. IL, Dec. 22.-Forest Mer
rill, aged 30, was instantly kill-d while
at work at the Bouli Gorrell Lumber
company plant here yesterday. He got
ra tight on a shafting and was hurled
against side wall. Mr. Merrill was a
resident of Plymouth, N. H, and was
married.
5. E. CHAMBERLAIN DEAD.
Well Known Burlicgttn Man Had Been
I 111 for Two Weeks.
' Burlington. Dec. 22. X. E. Chamber
' lain, one of the best known business men
of Burlington, died eirly this morning
after being at a local sanatorium fr
treatment during the p.t t ek.
45 SOUGHT PAPERS
IN CITIZENSHIP
Of the Number 23 Were Aliens Applying
for Their First Papers Court Ses
sion in Graniteville
To-night.
Forty-five candidate for citizenship
worn nln lu'uiinpn at pit v hall Thurs
day afternoon and evening when Clerk
F. S. Piatt of Rutland presided ocr u
session of United States court. Twenty
five aliens were granted first papers and
20 applicants presented their petitions
for papers of the second class. Clerk
Piatt was assisted in the session by
I'nited States Marshal Carpenter of
Brattlcboro, Deputy Marshal Gsorge
Lackey of Montpelier, J. S. Haley, the
bailiff, C. DeF. Bancroft, tho interme
diary, and Miss Mary Donelti of Barre,
court stenographer. This forenoon the
court convened in Miles' hall at Granite
ville, where it was expected that a large
number of Barre Town candidates would
present themselves this afternoon and
evening.
Pir.f rr,r were irranted as follows:
Giovanni Abbiatl, Italy; Ricardb Alonzo,
Spain; Alexander tiisaet, eotianu; i.r
nesto Cecchini, Italy; Domenico DiUonft,
ltalv; Carlo Emoli. Italy; Antonio Fa
brizio, Italy, Giuseppe Fioadelli. Italy;
Aehille Fontana, Italy; Francisco Franco,
ltalv; Stanley Godziisziwski, Russia;
Antonio Graasi, Italy; Peter Gropelli,
Italy; Gildo Halo Montapoli, Barre; De
side'rio Nata, Italy; Giuseppe Pantrini,
ltalv; Abran Popock. Russia; Mario Ka
tk.. Ambrntrio Rossi. Italy; An-
tonio Riuz, Spain; Paolo Simonetti,
- . t rr. Hnlir. niliapnrtA
Italy; Aiigeio iomasuii, ...-.rr-Zampieri,
Italy. All of the applicants
reside here in the city.
Candidates applying for second papers
are as follows: Michcle Alessando, Italy;
diaries Gerald Barr, Scotland; Giuseppe
Bordonzotti, Switzerland; Giovanni Bot
tinelli, ltalv; Louis Carri, Switzerland;
Cesidio Cenei, Italy; Charles Chapman,
England; Alexander Cowie, Scotland;
Richard Fitzgerald. Canada; Alexander
Fowlie, Scotland; Alexander Fowlie. jr.,
Scotland; Ilervey Hebert, Canada; Vil
liam Innos, Scotland; Ernesto Rizzi,
Italy; William Robertson. Scotland; Wil
liam Robertson, jr., Scotland; John Jo
seph Shea. Ireland; David lxwe Thow,
Scotland; Florentino Vega, Spa.in. With
the exception of Mr. Thow, who lives in
South Barre, all candidates reside here
in the city.
IN BAD PLIGHT.
Children of Harry Sargent Sent to School
at Vergennes.
Three children whose' only home for
some time has been a single room in a
block on Pearl street, where they have
been living with their father, were
brought before Judge II. W. Scott in city
court Thursday afternoon under the ju
venile act and by the magistrate ad
judged dependent children. After re
viewing tho evidence offered by the fa
ther. Harry Sargent, by Overseer Bigclow
of Washington- antl members of the al
dermanw ehnrity department, the-judge
sent the children, three sisters, to the
state industrial school in Vergennes. Ar
lene, aged 14. did most of the talking for
the trio, but her tiny sister, Violet, aged
0, and the next eldest, Gail, aged 13, also
told their stories.
It developed that marital troubles had
broken up the Sargent home and the fa
ther of the children, compelled by his
physical condition to face many obstacles,
sought to keep the youngsters together
by housing them in the Pearl street
room. Originally, the Sargents came
from Washington and the charity de
partment of that town was interested in
the case. The elder Sargent was ordered
bv the court to pay $1 per week toward
the maintenance of the children in Ver
gennes. They were turned over to Pro
bation Officer C. A. Smith and last night
Sheriff F. II. Tracy accompanied them to
the state school.
WAS ILL MANY MONTHS.
Mrs. Minnie S. Pariezo Died This Morn
ing on the East HilL
Mrs. Minnie S. Turiezo, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Telles Stone, passed away
at the home of her parents on east hill
this morning at 3:30 o'clock, the end
following an illness of seven months.
Besides her parents, she is survived by
her son, Paul, and by three sisters. Miss
Florence Stone of Lewiston, Me., Mrs. X.
Canton of Montreal, P. Q., and Mis Nel
lie Stone of Barre; also by two brothers,
Telles Stone of Cambridge and Dewey
Stone of this city. The deceased was
born Minnie Stone in Quhacy. M-. -Tune
20, 18N0. When she was a child her par
ents moved to Barre and she had always
resided in this vicinity.' Her marriage
to Akin Pariezo took place in Barre 19
years ago. Mrs. Pariezo wjuj a communi
cant of St. Monica's church.
Funeral nrrangements will not be made
until word is received from absent broth
ers and sisters of the deceased.
SMOTHERED IN BED CLOTHES.
Burlington Infant Was Found Dead by
Its Mother.
Burlington, Dee. 22. The second in
fant in this city to meet death by acci
dental smothering in less than a month s
time, was Edward Charles McKernon.
:..f Mr and Mrs. Charles Me-
Kernon of 331 St. Paul street, who was i
found dead by its motner y .
morning. The child had been dead hut
a verv short time when found by his
mother and Wood which came from the
nose showed that death might have l-en
due to hemorrhat'e. An autopsy per
. i I-..- ; the ihiv at the request
of the parents proved that death was ;
caused tv apnji ,
left the infant' but an hour before she
found that he was dead and death
was due to accidental sinomei n,B in,
the lied clothes. The infant, besides his)
mother, is survived by two sisters. j
ARRESTED ON ARRIVAL. J
Charles Lefay Held at Braltleboro en!
Statutory Charge. I
Brattlcboro. Dec. 22. hrles Lefar, :
formerly of Hinsdale. N. H, was arrest ;
f,i yiwterday afternoon t-harged with a
statutory offense as he got off a train in
company wun .rs. .ni w-nr
Hinsdale, wife of Eme-t Totter. The
woman had her 9-month-oi.l baby with
her.
lMfer hs started proceedings to ga-B
the custody of his child.
PKICK, ONE CKNT.
BIG DAMAGE
IN EXPLOSION
Boiler in Randolph C' !,iesc
Laundry Went Th ' ;h
Two Floo'N?rr
AND DEMC .-HED
THii-VARTITIONS
Two Chinese. Narrowly Es
caped Being Hit by
the Mass
Randolph, Dec. 22 A steam toiler :
a Chinese laundry in the basoment of
the Holmes building on Merchants' rov
exploded at 9:30 o'clock this forenoon,
passing through the store of the Litch
field market, also the, kitchen flooV of
the Randolph inn and nearly through thn
floor above the kitchen into e. bedroom
which a moment before had been vacated
by a chambermaid.
The Chinese laundry man had just left
the laundry to go to the hotel kitchen
and there with the Chinese cook he was
enjoying his breakfast at a small table
in the corner of the room, The boiler
passed within three feet of the two men
as they sat at the table, cutting off large
timbers and boards of the floors as it
passed upward. When the boiler fell
back it again barely missed hitting the
two men.
Every partition in the Litchfield mar
ket was wrecked by the concussion, and
the plate glass in the windows and doors
was demolished and pieces of glass were
blown across the street. Much of the
glass in the hotel wa also broken. One
woman was the only person in the
market and she was blown across the
room into the open windows but was not
injured.
A fire started after the explosion but
the flames were put out by the use of
hand extinguishers.
DIED FROM HIS FALL.
Eugene Dclage Was at First Thought to
Be Slightly Hurt.
Winooski, Dec. 22. Eugene Delage, 45
West Center street, who was injured a
week ago this morning at the woolen
mills when he fell four stories with an
elevator, died shortly after two o'clock
yesterday morning as a result of the ac
cident. At the time of the accident Mr.
Delage appeared to have received only a
compound fracture to his right leg jif t
above the ankle, but on Tuesday his con
dition became such from internal in
juries, that it was necessary to perform
an operation on him. It developed that
he was badly injured internally and he
failed to rally.
Mr. Delage was born in Fairfax fit
year! ago next March and ever since he
was five years of age he had been a res
ident of this village, his parents mov
ing here at tliat time. He leaves besides
his wVe, three sons. Armand, Eugene
and Edward Delage, and five daughters,
Mrs. Laura Nesbv, Mrs. Lydia Sweeney,
Mrs. Blanche Catalina, the Misses Augus
tine and Madeline Dclage, all of this
plaec. Death occurred at the Mary
Fletcher hospital and Dr. B. II. Stone of
the state laboratory performed an au
topsy. The funeral will be held at St.
Francis Xavier church at 4 o'clock Sun
day afternoon. .
JOSEPH COLOMBO'S FUNERAL
Was Held Thursday Afternoon at 21 El-
liston Street.
The' funeral of Joseph Colombo, who
died at his home, 21 Elliston street, Tues
day morning, was held at the house on
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock. The
bearers were: Enrico Fontana, Carlo
Fontana, Loudovico Olgiati, John Conn,
Carlo Etafanazzi and Alberto Albirtola.
Interment was made in Hope cemetery.
large number of friends in the Italian
colony ! accompanied the body to the
gravosWe.
In a profuse floral tribute, were the
following offerings: Wreath, "Father,
family; carnations, Ores-te Boffino, Mrs.
Marietta Colombo, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Colombo, Mr. and Mrs. John Malnati, Mr.
and Mrs. B. Luechina, Mr. and Mrs. A.
Colombo, Mr. and Mrs. John Perantoni,
Mr. and Mrs. Attilio Perantoni. John and
Charles Comi. Valentino and Frank Cal
derara and Natale Comi.
BODY BROUGHT BACK.
Large Delegation Met C. C. Fitts Funeral
Tarty in Brattleboro.
Brattleboro, Dec. 22. The body of ex
Attv. Gen. Clarke C. Fitts of this town,
,i;.l Tlmrs.lav niL'ht ill Watertown,
Mass.. was brought here last evening.
V lar"o delegation ot business men.
numbers of the Masonic fraternity and
friends of Mr. Fitts went to the railroad
station to meet the train.
Funeral services will take place in Cen
ter Congregational church, where he was
an active worker. Saturday afternoon at
2:30 o'clock.
The members of llcdding M. E. Vjrch
held their annual banquet in the vestry
of the church W.-dnesday evening frd
lowed by the election of officers for the
ensiiing'year. The supper was well at
tended by the member of the church and
a verv appropriate menu was served by
the committee. The officers elected are
a follows: C. S. Andrews, Mterin
tendenl: C. S. Ciishman. assistant super
intendent; Raymond H. Hosworth. secre
tary; Philip Vercro', treasurer: Miss
Agne Rule, librarian and si-tant su-
perintendent of the primary department;
Mrs. I.. D. Martin, superintendent of the
intermediate department: Miss Eleanor
S.t, .nperintenderit of the primary de
partment; Mi Ev.lvn Mathewson. as
sistant of the lieginners department;
Mrs. II. A. Balrwin. superintendent of
the beginner-. department; Mrs. C. s.
Andrew, superintendent of the home de
partment: Mis AIm-o Farnham, mi
eions:: Mrs. C. A. IWjre. tfmpcrjnr.-
Mis Marion Ankcr; organist and tiecrge
MUU, uhcr.
