Columbus is the Only Port of Entry and Natural Gateway From Old Mexico into New .Mexico
Vol. VI.
ANT CLAUS TO VISIT
POOR KIDS OP STATE
ill In' no empty .stockings on
Chri-tnms morning Ir I)r,
I. likens is notified
Their will be no empty stock-'
ngs hanging by the fire side in
Sew Mexico on Christmas morn
ing ' 1 ''"ku'is. superin
temlent of the Children's Homej
.Societ . lias his way. No home, i
"howevoi humble, will be over
looked by Santa Claus, nor will
jjiere In- a lack of Christmas
hour and Christmas plenty in
any family in the state.
Dr. I. likens has asked that all
who know of a needy family in
Sew Mexico, the members of
jhich lace tile prospect of a lack
if yulrtide merriment, eommuni
atc tii' name of such family to
him. Especially does he want
he names of families where the
hiMri n are likely to see noth
ing of Santa Claus or his bene
totncc on Christmas morning.
lust the names and addresses is
j that Dr. Lukens wants. He
iml :-anta Claus will attend to
lie rest.
"Kih Kringle Incorporated"
s what Dr. Lukens calls his so
dety for the time being and it
is the determination of the soci
ety and its superintendent that
nobody shall feel the pinch of
vant on Christmas day this
oar and that there shall not be
i kiddie in New Mexico to wear
he wistful look of disappoint
ment on account of the failure of
smta Claus to come down the
himney. Everybody in the
-tato who wants to see "Kris
'ringle incorporated" do a big
business this year and score a
roniplete success is invited to
ommunicate with Dr. C. E.
Lukens, superintendent of the
t'hildreiis' Home Society. Albu
querque. New .Mexico.
FARMERS WEEK AT THE
NEW .MEXICO COLLEGE
Preparations are being made
it the state agricultural college
i' provide for an unusually intor-
'ing program for farmers and
h. ir wives at the farmers week
iml home-makers' conference to
held at the college at Mosilla
Park. January 8 to in. The
veek is to be devoted to the in-eii'-ts
of the farmers especially
ilthuugh there will be many lec
tin v, short courses and enter
au.ment features attractive to
he general public. A number of
'rominent speakers, experts in
hen lines, from many parts of
he country, have Ijeen engaged
"i Mie program, which will be
"ii'lucted under the extension;
liM-ion of the college.
The farmers' week of last Jan-i
ian was a decided success, with
i large attendance. It is be-1
heve.1 that the coming program I
will be even more instructive and
lUertaining than the last one.
nil that the attendance will be
nui h larger.
Those who may contemplate
'tteiiding can obtain complete
nformation by writing to the
xtension division at the state
ollego.
The postolliea will be open bt
ween the hours of 0 and 10 a.m. ,
jnly, on Christmas and New
u-ar's Day.
fflYou Can Save Money on Every Purchasc-
Bv Dealing With Us.
Want to Sell Them.
We Have the Largest Stock of Shoes in Town, and
Can Fit You in all the Latest Styles at the Most
Attractive Prices.
Fresh Groceries Received Daily.
SAM RAVEL
THE DOLLAR Oil DIME
'SnFvTuu
mw.i 'LU ! AKMhlt
Monev now
available all nniilii.il
for but within next year or ut buying ha, in he
lirn" m- I Uon. The value of eltcli share
w, f i i t . 'H X(,(l at 'he low price of So
l i e I edoral Loan Act passed each. Kverv fanner who be
at the last session of congress, comes a tne nb e of a na io m
, of, nHxl p ,ni,-y Psibly cmes a borrower and a share
I f nnw '.0 "' ,so,m' benefit to holder ,it the same ti.no For
lie farmers and stockraisers of the law says that he must sub
t Lower Mimhres.. As the scribe for stock to the amount
law is understood by us. money of 5 per cent of his ilolre,Uoa,i
can be borrowed on first niort- If L! wants to bonw $i(.0 he
gage on farm property for the must take one share of stock if
purpose oi making improve-, S200 two shares; if $1,000 ten
nients or the purchase of live- shares; and if S10.000 one htm
s ock or other reasons, the ap- died shares,
pliennt being required to state When the charter his been
tn the application for what pur- granted the association can bor
K)se he wishes to use the money, row money of the land bank The
he information which follows mortgages are then prepared and
telling how to organize in order delivered to the secietarv-troas-to
borrow money is obtained urer. who forwards t hem to the
rrom a circular sent out by the federal land bank of the district
secretary of the Farm Loan On its part, the land bank sends
Hoard. It may be taken as au- the money for the loans to the
t'le!flc' secretary-treasurer of the asso-
When ten farmers there may ciation. He in turn delivers the
be more, but there must bo at , proper amount of money to the
least ten meet to organize, and resjiective borrowers and the
decide to form an association, farm mortgage transaction is
they appoint a committee to closed. The farmer has thus
draw up articles of association, been enabled to borrow money
I'ltese articles should set forth on first mortgage with practic
the obiect of the association and ally no trouble or expense on his
tile territory within which it pro- part.
poses to do business. The must Let it lie nlaii.ly understood
follow a prescribed form fur- thut farmers can form their prc
nished by the land bank, or it liminnry organizations at once,
may be modified In suit the needs They can have their directors
of any particular body of farm- chosen, as well as their president
ers. Hut nothing can be includ- vice president, loan committee,
ed in the articles of association and secretary-treasurer. Hut
that is contrary to the letter and they cannot receive their charter
, spirit of the law.
The tarmrs who thus unite
themselves into a national farm
loan association then sign the mav take several months. I
articles. A copy of them is made , But, if the farmers have all
to be sent to the federal land the preliminary work done ahead
hank of the district within which they can make their applications
the association is situated. Then n the land bank a. soon as it is
the articles of association are organized. This will help them i
filed for future reference. iget their loans quicker than ifi
A limn committee of three, they put oh" organizing until the
members must be appointed to land banks are located. Let ten
pass on loans. A written report or snore farmers in every com-1
is drawn up by them after they niunity go ahead at once and
have examined the lnnds. The form a temporary organization,
committee examines the farms It will help them and will faeili
and farm lands for the purpose ate the work of organization. i
of appraising their values. . The
report of this loan committee,,
signed uv all tiiree members
must bo sent to the land bank
with the articles of association.
All members must sign the re
port or it will be worthless.
wr tr zrT! it1"? ul?"
member the articles of associa.
made out and be sent to the
federal land bank. This allldaviti
must oe signed aim acKiiuwicuK'
ed by the secretary-treasurer,
whose residence and postodice
address must also bo stated on
tho a"' '".vit. This utlidavit. thus
signi id aiKiiowiedgeo oy uie
member and the secretary-
treasurer, should set forth that
each subscriber is the owner of i
farm hind, or is about to become
the owner of farm land. 1 hat ,
is, a person in tne conimunii.v
may not be in actual possession
of a farm, but expects to be in
a .short time, by purchase, the
owner of a particular farm de
scribed in his application; in that
case lie could become a member.
We Have
YOH SPEND WITH US STAYS
iawtttifetif
Columbus, Luna County, New
J?" ,a"?,,avil -houw'-i-o -lte
the desired Ioiuir added together
amount In t')i nno
n,.. r.. . 11 . .
i nor can they borrow money of
the land bank until these have
been located and organized. This
WOMHNS' C. .
,v w"
The Womens' Christian Tem
perance Union met at the homo
of Mrs. W. T. Ritchie on the 12tli
n.cnU 'Mffli R.
W. T. Ritchie secretary, and
; L , h' ,om,SI;(;millK
, M c,.,.Jj,,,,u
wore served after tho election of
ollicers and the ladies adjourned
to meet at the parsonage on the
second Tuesday in January.
(j(.ACRE HOMKSTEA1J
HILL I'P TO PRESIDENT
ajj tu, disputed points in the
i.rris bill to provide G-10-acre
ii,)mc'stcads. principally for graz-
inir nurnoses. have been smooth
ed out and the measure has gone
to the president for signature.
The bill has been supported by
tho department of the interior
and all congressmen from the
western states.
the Goods, and
Wl5'
RIGHT HERE AT HOME
Mexico. December 22.
1916.
ROAD HOARD ANSWERS he cared if the Hoard knew his 'COMMITTEE APPOINTED
CONTRACTORS PROTEST bid. He said he did not and I TO (JO OVER ROAD
' showed us the bid. He then took
Hoard accused of partiality in the bid and left the oillce. later I Captains Pearson. O'Conner and
awarding contract for the he came back and said he would , Walsh appointed by Colonel
abutments of bridge like to leave the bid with us. to go over County roads
Mr. Sherman then informed him,,
Ihe Luna County Road Hoard "You may leave it here if you Colonel C. F. Farnsworth. base
met in Doming last Monday one wish to." Later Mr. Samuels 'commander, has appointed a com
week ago and among the matters and Mr. Pollard appeared before 1 mittee composed of Captain
that came before the board was the Hoard and urged the rejec-' Pearson. Captain O'Connor and
the letting of a contract for the tion of the bid already accepted I Captain Walsh, to go over the
building of piers for the bridge and the acceptance of Mr. Sam- Columbus-Deming road for the
across 70 draw. A certain con- uels bid. The Hoard unanimous- purpose of estimating the prob
tractmg firm in Doming raised ly decided that they could not do able damaged done to the high
a howl because they did not re- this but that as the contract had way by reason of the toad being
coive the eontr u t. i: ! "1 !x - ;cen awarded to Mr. J. P. Sher- used by the heavy government
ing Headlight took occasion in man and he was notified it must 1 trucks.
the last issue to give space to the so stand. 1 The road board held a meeting
unsuccessful bidder, and further' There are a few things how- with the committee Tuesday
used their space for a long edi- ever, which now that the matter morning in the oilice of Captain
to.ial cr.ticizing ti.e road board. ! open to the public, might be Pearson, and the matter was
The board prepared the follow- explained. .gone into thoroughly. It was
ng awns'-r to the attack made First. - Why Mr. Samuels had learned that only the damages
ty the ll-adlight and the con- two curtitied checks when only done to the Cjlumbus-Deming
: i acting firm : one contract was being let? road could be considered by this
Doming. N. M., Dec. 18, 191C Second. Why. if his bid was committee, and any further
Editor of Courier:- ion the basis of $11.20 per yardiclaims for damages will have to
We note the letter of W. L. or $8o2.00 for sixty yards and be taken up with Colonel Glenn,
Samuels & Son in which they only 10 per cent of the amount commanding the troops station
criticize the action of the Luna, was to be put up, one chock was ed at Doming. As soon as the
County Road Hoard in awarding for $100.00 and another for! proposition now undertaken is
the contract for the abutments ! $-10.00? I disposed of, the board will take
to the bridge over 70 draw. Third. Why Mr. Samuels up the matter with the Doming
While we feel that this letter in 'stated to Mr. Sherman that he 'commander,
reality only represents the com- did not think he would want to The basis for the claim for
plaint of an unsuccessful bidder, bid. but if he did decide to do sol damages as presented to the mil
who by teason of his negligence j he would have Frank bring the itary committee was 'the dam
failed to present his bid in time, bid in the first tiling Monday ago done by the heavy trucks,
.-.rill we have determined in view morning if he was un-informed the lighter travel not being con
of the fact that some may not as to the meeting time and was sidered. The road board esti
understand and may be mislead I not aware that the meeting was mated that one-half of the wear
by the statements made in the called for 10 o'clock? nd tear of the road was due to
letter, to answer the same. Fourth. Why lie waited until 'the travel of the trucks, and the
The notice for bids had been i the late hour to present or oiror1 other half due to the ordinary
advertised in the Doming Graph-1 to present his bid? More than 'travel and the lighter govern
ic and the Columbus Courier fori an hour and a half iffter the sua- ment vehicles. The commission-
two weeks proceeding the moot
ing. This notice no doubt came
to Samuels & Son as well as oth
er bidders.
Tho regular meeting of the
!.una County Road Hoard was
set for 10 o'clock December 1th,
HUG. Of this meeting Samuel
& Son hud notice. W. L. Samuel
on the Saturday of December 2d.
.010. called at the oilice of Fred
ihcrnmn and talked with him
regarding the bid. He examined
the estimate of Mr. Alniy. which
was for $11.00 per yard and
stated that it would be impossi
olo to do the work as cheaply as
hat. He informed Mr. Sherman
that he did noU think that he
.could want to bid but if he de
cided to do so he would have
Prank bting the bid in the first
thing Monday morning. This
statement was made in the pres
ence of another. He was in
formed by Mr. Sherman that the
meeting would be held at 10:00
o'clock Monday morning and bids
opened.
The mooting was not convened
and the bids opened until 11:30
o'clock. At that time there were
two bids, one from the El Paso
Hridgo & Iron Company for
S1MG.00 and one of J. P. Sher
man of S1.OM.00. Mr. Huker
then moved that the bid of J. P.
Sherman be accepted and the
contract awarded to him. The
motion was carried.
Samuels & Son procured their
certified checks on the morning
of December 4th between nine!
and ton o clock. There was no
reason in the world why they
should not. if they wished, have
presented them to the board in
ample time. Tho oilice of the
Secretary was open at all times
and their bid could have been re
ceived. Mr. Samuels states in his let
ter that the information was
given by Mr. Sherman that the
bid would be opened at 2 o'clock.
This statement is absolutely
false, for on the contrary Mr.
Samuels was informed that the
meeting would be at 10 o clock.
Whatever Mr. Alniy may have
told liim or anyone else in the
employ of the Road Board could
not of course be binding upon
the Board itself.
In the letter Mr. Samuels
i stales inai me urn w iuuii-
ted to the board and that tliey
ope
left
that
in
the Board, the Board Informed
Mr. Samuels that tllE Contract
net! it and imu it was men Columbus since Inst Anril. loft ' ' ,i. ..i.0 t.,f .!,
with thorn. The facts are for Kj iinso Wodnosday where " ,.' (, Ltu'nf! mi.
i when the bid was brought hc win 8nond the holidays, lie .I To,!!" ""S J m'
about 2 o'clock and offered to ,,.111 return to Columbus Tnos- " JT "
had already been let. Mr. Sher-1 ed his resignation as an A. P. I IJooat Columbus by patroniz
man then asked Mr. Samuels if mRn to take effect on that date. . in hor industries.
(Eoiiftef
led bids had been opened. ers expressed their willingness
it is correct that J. P. Sher-'to go 50-50 with the military in
man is a brother of Fred Sher- j putting the road back into shape
man. member of the Road Hoard. ' ready for surfacing. They es
It is also correct that he resides 'timated that tho grading cost
at Corpus Christi. Texas. It is'S-00 per mile, and damages are
also correct that he navs as much ! asked for 45 miles, or $4,500.00
taxes in Luna County as does
either of the other biders. It is
also correct that ho has had more
years experience in concrete
work than either .of the other
biders (he is not a brick !aver).!'tf the road from here to Dem
it is also correct that for the past I the commissioners agreeing
ten vears he has been employed to appropriate a sufficient sum
exclusively in concrete road. ! from the bond issue to complete
bridge and other concrete work. 'the job. They estimate that it
The Hoard does not f.-el that,"'"1 cost ?800 I)(-'r mil"? to sur
thev lost to tho taxpayers of f-'. a"d the route proposed to
Luna County $102.00 bv reason , -surface is 33 miles in length. In
of letting the contract to J. P. case the committee agreed to do
Sherman, but rather that they this an appropriation of $17,700
saved the taxpayers $732.00 bv would be asked for. The board
reason of letting the contract to -"ers to keep up the necessary
.Mr. Sherman and not to the El repairs after the road is once
Paso Bridge & Iron Co.. who are I'"t i" shape, and there will be
the contractors on the' steel' " further claims for damages
work for the same bridge. from the government on this
The letter of Samuels & Son road. Part of the military com-
ns nuates that tho act on wasi
by Sherman and Heath, but the
facts are that the Board was
unanimous in the position taken.
If the position of Mr. Samuels
is true and that it is not neces-
snrv to have the bid in bv the
hour of meeting of the Hoard.
then some one else could nave
ni'nnntoii .-i liiri nt in (.'i U nt
nwrht m. ..t nnv th..i. Iimmv tin.
fore mid-niirht and nrevious bids
v.-ou!d have to be discarded ami
the other accepted.
The Board does not charge
fraud as to Messers. Samuel &
Son, but in view of the fact that
they had two certified checks,
that they had two bids, that the
certified check for $100.00 was
greatly in excess of the amount, ot ueming. and i ounty
bid; and in view of the fntf that i Representative S. J. Smith, ami
they waited to present their bid Mr. Heath was accompanied, by
until after the other bids hadlG- E. Parks, of the Courier, and
boon opened and there had beenl w-re present at the meeting
tinu. for tiinm tn i.ennnu. infnr. with the military committee.
rued of the nmnimt thereof : it1
appears to the Board that they
are nanny to no taKen seriously
in their contention
CHARLES HEATH.
Chairman
FRED SHERMAN.
Secretary
Phil. McLaughin Quits A. P.
Phil McLauglin, of the Asso-
cjated Press, who has been
in
dy and will remnin until the
fii-at nf ttin vnnr hnvinir tnnilnr.
and in addition the board is ask
ing that the military committee
recommend in their report an
additional appropriation to pay
one-half the expense of surfac
"miee win go over me io.m w
fore making their recommenda
tions. The committee were asked by
the board that the funds be ex-
nendect under tne supervision oi
government engineer, though
is ot llkel.v that the request
will be granted.
Mr. Heath and Mr. Sherman
represented th- board at
the
meeting, the other member. Mr.
Hla'r being absent.
Mr. Sher
man came done from Doming
early in the morning, accompan
ied by County Commissioner
Frank L. Nordhouse. County
Clerk Charlie Hughes. J. G.
Cooper of the Doming National
Hank, Condon Brown of the
There is do doubt whatever
I but the committee will recon i-
; uusbj -
be approved and Luna County
will receive a nice sum to npply
on the roads of the county, due
to the commendatory work of
Charles Heath and Fred Sher
man, the first road board the
county has ever had that really
tried to do things.
vv "i" ivnn nnr ma rumr.
llllllil iigiiiiint uiu vvuKon.
