tmm
wsum
VOL. LXXX.
MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, FRIDAY, DHCISMUER 22, 1010.
NO. 51
FOREFATIIERS' CELBURATION.
THE MILK SITUATION.
MORE Sincerely than
ever we extend to you
the Oompliments of the
season.
Ives & Shambo
Cofob Illoclc
Middlebury, Vermont.
We wish you all a MERRY CHRIST
MAS and a very HAPPY and
PROSPEROTJS NEW YEAR.
Also wish to thank you one and all
for your generous patronage dur
ing the past year.
. THE DYER STORE
CHRISTMAS GIFT5
THAT LAST THE WHOLE YEAR THROUGH
'jThe best gift of all, tho gift for pleasure and happiness of the
f ainily, makes joy of giving. You will find here furnishings that
are genuinely good, distinctive in character and favorable in price.
Do not forget that your greatest opportunity lies in au early
selection. Here are a few suggestions.
Writing Desks, Card Tables, Library Tables,
Smoking Stands, "Work Baskets, Serving Trays,
Framed Pictures, Doll Carriages, etc.
Don't forget that a Kitchen Cabinet makes a most acceptable
gift. We have 011 hand now one of lioosier's best make.
296th Annlvorapry of Pllorlm
Landlno Obaorvod-Atldroos
by Dr. Adnma,
For tlio soventy-fourtli conHOCtitivo
yenr citizona of Middlebury nniJ vlcinlty
mot luat ovcnlnR to colobrnto tho Innd
inRof thoPilRrimfl nt Plymouth In 1020.
Ar uiuiiil thoy BiinR "Tho broaklno;
wnves ilnuhcd high," llatonod to nn olo
quent iiddrosfl, partook of n bountlful
supper propared by tho Labareo Bocloty,
nnd nourishod tholr patrlotism on mcm
orlca of tho grcat foundorB of Now
England.
Tho addrosa wna by Rov. Chauncoy
C. Adnma of tho Firat CongroRational
church of Burlington, who took for hla
Bubjocf'Tho Pilgrlm'fl Wny of Finding
His Soul." Dr. Adama showed how
Bomo of thonationnof Europohnd found
their floul in tho great war, leaving bo
hind their nnrrowneaa nnd littlonoaannd
dovclopinp; noblo qunlitioa throuRh tho
sncrificps they woro cnlled upon to
mnko. In a aimilnr way tlio Piiritana
Farmera to Dlaouaa thla Quoa
tlonnt tholr Annual Mootlna,
Jonunry 3rd,
Tho annual mootlnR of tho Addison
County Farmorfl' iiHsoclntlon will bo
hold in tho townhallln Middlolmry, Jan
uary .1, Tho morninR noHslon will begln
at 10 o'clock, nnd tho nftornoon nesslon
atl:!)0 o'clock.
A Hpoclal ondenvor hna hoon madc by
thooxccutivo commlttcoof tho Addison
County Farmera' AaBOcintlon to obtaln
roprcBentativea of tho Now Englawl
Milk Proiluccranaaocintion nnd tho Now
York Dniryrncn'a lenguo to load in tho
diactiaalon of tho milk Blttiation. Tho
plnn of tho Now Knglnnd Milk Produccra
aasociation ia to ou"ect an orRnnizntlon
whlch will includo ovory mnn in Now
Holland wlio producca milk, nnd got ao
thorouRhlv orgnnizcd thnt thoy will bo
rendy to demnnd a fair prico for tho
milk In April. Thla monna aomo llvoly
work for tho orRanlzera nnd It would
bi' of L'n'ittbclpif all tho fnrinurs would
D. S. PEASE
FURN1TURE
UNDERTAKING
Tclephone 66-2
To all of our friends,
The Season's Greetings
F. O. Dyer Oo.,
"The Bhf Storc"
Salisbury, Vermont
found their soul. throuirh tho con(lictof1l,Uentltll,,n'lUI,,moctil,K of 1,10 Ad
t,i.,i., !,i.oiim .in, mn..riniiam ..mi dison County I'nrmorR' nssociation to
demncrocy with despotic Rovcrnmout.
The poril of Ameriea from liu'lc of suf
iicii'iit ideals waa eloquently porlraycd.
Dr. Adnms spoko with Rreat foreo and
onrnestness and his addroaa waa pro
nouncod ono of tho hcat of tho momorn
blo onea dolivored on thoso occnsions.
Atthe "Ladies' Social I'arty" Rev.
II. C. Newcll of tho Congrogntional
church spoko nppreciativoly of the I'il
Rrim Mothers. Judgo Charles 1. liut
ton called attention to the military qunl
ities of the PilRrims and their heliof in
univofsnl militnry service, and Sup't.
Harsa of Vergennes dwelt upon tho
problems and opportunities of the Pil
Rrims of today. Dr. Adnms wna cnlled
upon os tho last speakor and continued
tho discussion oi how we can preserve
the qualitics which made the PilRrims
Kreat. The proRrnm includcd inusical
numbers by Dr. Phdip E. Mellen, Mrs.
Luther I. Bonney, and Mr. Webster E.
Miller, Mrs. G. D. MineractinR aecom-
panist. Tho cvening was k very pleas
ant one and mnny wero henrd to sny
that they would never miss a Middle
bury Forefathers, nnd thnt they were
Rlau the late Joseph Isnttell luid pro-
vided for the permnnence of the ob
servance in this villaRe.
IIOME ECONOMICS DEMONSTRA.
TIONS.
Some of the senior Rirlsin the colleRe
takinR Home Economics nre to Rive a
series of demonstrntions and talks the
aftemoon of Janunry 3, 4, and 8 at 3:30
in the Physics lecture room in Wnrner
Science hall. AlthoURh these demon
strntions were not prepared primarily
for housewives, but as n partof reRUlnr
class work to Rive prnctice in public
speakinR, they may prove suRRestive to
housekeepers. Anyone interested is
cordially invited to attend. The pro
Rram will be as follows:
VVednesday, January 3. Some ways
of usinR left-overs. Miss Mnry Iiowles.
Some useful household discoveries.
Miss Letitia Calhoun.
Thursdny, January -1. Snndwiches.
Miss Helen Lyman.
Some ways of usitiR white sauce.
Miss Evelyn WriRht.
Monday, January 8. Salada. Miss
Huldah Thomas.
Household decorations. Miss Mnry
Bowles.
MRS. ALEXANDER ENTERTAINS.
The following item from the Akron,
Press will be of interest to the many
Middlebury friends of Mrs. Alexander.
A reception was Rivon Friday afternoon,
December 15, byMraJ. Park Alexander,
at her home, 422 West Markct street,
where she received about fifty Ruests in
ce lebratinR her eightieth birthday on
niversnry. She was nssisted by her
daURhters, Mrs. Charles 13. WriRht of
hecomo familiar with tho purposea and
plana of this orRanlzation.
Thero will bo o discussion of tho ea
tablishmont of n County FnnnoiV Ex
chaiiRO. An exchanRO well established
and properly used would no doubt bo of
Rreat benclit to tho farmera of tho
county. We wnnt to hear a lively dia
cusslon on this subject.
Thc (ucation of "How Do You Huy
Your (Jrain?" will be discussed. At tho
present time severnl farmera in tho
county are buyitiR their Rrniu in a very
inedlciont way; thnt is, they buy in
smnll lots, on Ioiir credit, nnd buy whcn
Rrnin costs most. DuriiiR the pnst sen
son many hnve lenrned n very denr
lesHon; thnt is, that buyiiiR Rrnin in tho
summer for winter use would havo
saved about SlOper ton. Several farm
era dia nuy ineirRrain ine pasi summer
and are feedinR their cowa for lesa
money than tlu'y did last yenr. Every
fnrmer could bo likcwisc situatod if ho
established businesa tnethods oti his
form.
1, Hy buyinR cooperatively and pay-
ine ensl.i n mnrRin of from threo to seven
dollnrs per ton can be saved on Rrain.
2. If grain is boURht when the mar-
ket is low, soveral dollars morc pcr ton
may bo saved.
Thua the question of "How Do You
Buy Your Grnin?" is a pertinent one
and cach farmer should be ready to
ansvver this (mestion.
T here will be reports by the secretary,
trensurer and county aRent. Mr.
Bradlee, Statc lender of county apent
work will bo present to make a few re
marks. Mr. Cannon, dniry expert,
who has started invcsti'Rational work in
tho county will explain tho work that
the Rovcrnment is doinR nlonR this line
This meetinR is for all the farmera of
the county, roRardless of whetber or
not thoy are members of tho nssocia
tion. The association seeks to serve
farminR interests and is supported by
every farmer inthecounty, and therefore
every farmer in the county should look
to receive some benefit therefrom. At
tend this annual meetinR and enterinto
the discussions.
RHODES SCHOLAR.
T. Kenneth I'enniman, Rraduate of
Middlebury ColleRe in the class of 1915,
was appointed to a Rhodes Scholarship
at the University of Oxford by the
Vermont Committee of Selection at a
meetinR held in BurlinRton on Tuesday.
Mr. Penniman entered Middlebury Col
leRe from Kimball Union Acadcmy in
1911. His parents live in Meriden,
N. H., where his father is a farmer.
He took hiRh rank in his colleRe studies,
devotinR himself particularly to the
classics and EnRlish literature. He re
ceived Commencement honors and was
elected to Phi Beta Koppa. DurinR his
colleRe course he showed marked liter
ary ability and originality. Af ter grad
untion he became principnl of the high
Middlebury, Vt., Mrs. C. N. Belden,
and Mrs. S. H. Pitkin. Fridav
entertained with a sncepssfnl. nnd ia nmv nrincinnl nf ihp
Mrs. Alexander
family dinner.
high school at Conway, Mass.
MAYFAIR WAR RELIEF. 1 " "
The Mayfair War Relief will meet for win enter mon hia studies at Oxford in
work on Tuesday afternoon, December October, 1917. The scholarship ap-
2G. A box will be packed on that day pointment is for three yenrs nnd is of
and nnyone having contributions to send the Value of 300 pounds o year. Mr.
is requested to either send them in or to penniman was selected from four Ver-
notify Mrs. Noble and she will send for mont students who had passed the
them. The boxes sent to headquarters quulifyinR examinations. The mem-
this winter have been most Rratefully bers of the committee on tho Rhodes
acknowledRed and the committee has Scholarships are President Venton of
earnestly requested the Middlebury Universitv of Vermont. Bishon A. C. A.
good work in this Unll. nnd President Thomas of Middle-
bury College.
unit to continue its
direction.
NASII FARM SOLD.
The farm on New Haven river, for
merly owned by the late D. W. Nash
has recently been sold by H. O. and E.
P. Nash, sons of the late Noah P. Nash
of Wisconsin, to Mr. and Mrs. John L.
EaRan and Mr. and Mrs. George EaRan
of Bristol.
TAKES MEDICAL COURSE.
Frank SilverKiiiR Huntof Barnstead,
N. IL, a Rraduate of Austin Cnte Acad
emy, Centre Strafford, N. H., in 1911,
and of Middlebury College in 1915, is
takinR a course in the Boston Univer
sity Medical School as a member of the
class of 1920.
LET US HELP YOU IN SELECTING YOUR
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
OiirBholvranmlcnBOflarofllled with now and attrnotlvoRoodH
and all wn anlc is IiiHpeotlon, Wo feel Huro wo onn plcnso you
HUAUTIFUI. CIIINA
in bIiikIo plcceH for tho bomo nnd
STIJUWNCi and PI.ATISD SIIA'Kll
for tho tnblo
OUU IINIJ OF STATIONUUY
Ia Iiiiro nnd of tho ilneat qimllty, with Hymwiqny Lawn and Tuup Linen.
Wo aro not excelled if equalled by any llnu in town.
CONFI5CTIONURY-TIIIS AI'01,1.0 CIIOCOLATUS
old friends nf our cufltomcrfl, nouo mperior.
In beatitlful nn npproprlato piicliiigea
ChrlatmBB Cnrda and Chrlatmas Booklots Gnloro
Druoolats' Bundrlea. Tollot Artloloa. Etc, Eto.
WATCH THE WINDOWS
SHELDON'S REXALL STORE
II. A. Siii'j.don 1817. Om'ositb Post Orncn Wm. H. SiiEi.no.v 1910,
A
MERRY CHRISTMAS
TO ALL
HEADQUARTERS
FOR
SLIPPERS
Ourstockof CHRISTMAS SLIPPERS is going rapidly.
LAST YEAR we were forced to disappoint many of our cus
tomers on account of tho limited supply.
TIIIS YEAR we doubled our stock in anticipation of tke in
creased demand and to givo you all an opportunity to
got them for
Mother Father Sister Brother
50c to $2.00
F. A. EVANS
SUCCESSOK TO W. E. CI.EMENT
Phouc 32 2 middlebury, Vt.
' THE STORE WITH THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT "
WISHINO OUR CUSTOMERS, ONE AND ALL, A MERRY XMAS
LAST WOED TO XMAS SHOPPERS
If yon nre oneof Uhe many Christmas sboppers who bavoputoff
selecting gifts until the last few dnys. nnd ure puzzled as to whnt to give
you can solve tlu problem liere. ChristniHH is riyht nt the door tbere
being only toiiay nnd tomorrow on which to buy.
Can you tbink of anything better to give than something wnrm and
comfortnhle? Why not n new Sult or Cout. or perhaps a nice warm
Fur? A Maclunnw or n Sweater would bo apprecinted. Then we hnvo
Oloves and Mittens, always acceptable.
Remembcr we always carry complete stocks of Clothing for
all agcs, Underwear, Blankets and Comfortables, Shoes, Rubbers,
and all kinds of Rubber Footwear, and the M.S. Co. guarantee back
of every purchase.
Reiiicnibcr You Alwnys Pay L.C88 at the
MIDDLEBURY SUPPLY CO.
Thc Storc That Satlsfics
Laznrowitz Block Fornicrly Chupman Block,
Telephone No. 62-2
Middlebury,
Vermont
