VOL. LXXXIII.
I3RA1TLEI30RO, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 191(i.
NO. 51.
Tim
Furniture Store
IS A GOOD PLACE
TO GET
Your
Where you will find hundreds of
things which are lasting and
satisfactory, with a wide
range of prices from
10c to $100
It Is a pleasure to show our goods for.it is the
best advertising that wo can do.
Store open Thursday, Friday and Saturday even
ings the week before Christmas.
EMERSON
Everything for Housekeeping
Brattleboro
On Account of the High
Price of Corn Goods
We suggest our CRUSHED
and GROUND OATS.
We also have received sev
eral thousand sacks of
DISTILLERS' GRAIXS,
BREWERS' GRAINS; and
MALT SPROUTS.
The sale of our READY RA
TION is increasing daily and
is used by many of the largest
and most discriminating feed
er'; in New England.
E. CROSBY & CO.
New York is the Homo of Fashion
For Men's Clothes
Suits, Overcoats and Trousers
Made to Your Order
Cut to your Individual mciisino liy ev
perl cutters and made up liy skilled
workmen In thol.ttcT style by tho best
custom tailors In New Vork city.
Suits from $20.00 up
Overcoats from $22.50 up
THE BEST TIIEItE IS IN TAILORING
WALTER H. HAIGH
Custom Tailor Elliot Street
Basswood and White
Pine Lumber Wanted
For price and detailed
information write to
The New England Box Co.
l.r.MIinU DEl'AHTMKNT
Greenfield, Mass.
Moran&Rohde
Embalmers and Funeral Directors
I'hone 351-W. 57 Main Ht., Urattleboro. Vt.
Vt. License 10 uliir,. N, II, UcciimuS.'".
Mii-sudiuosetts License 1TICI
Hammocks, Couches,
Croquet
-AT-
CLAPP & JONES'S
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEY, MBr.
niua nibbon Cutrnarr Huttcr and Pure
bred Hull Calvra fur tale.
Visitors always welcome. Orders taken
now for pura Maple Syrup.
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS can al
ways be had at right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street, Brattleboro
R. G. BOYD
Manufiietuier of All Kinds of
Silos, Watering Troughs, Tanks
and Lock Joint Boxes
Also General Woodworking and IliackemitlilDtr
WEST UUATTI,EI10H0. T.
LEGAL NOTICES.
ORDER OF NOTICE.
IX CHANCERY,
x Windham County.
in ro R J. FJ1XTON ri COMPANY.
YVhemuH U. J. Fenton & Company, n
corpor.it ion oiRimlzed under tho laws of
the State of Vermont an.l huvlntr Its
piinrlpal place of busbies at Urattleboro
in said inuuty of Windham, and Edward
J. l'tnton, Helen C. Kenton and 1'. J.
Fenton all of said Urattleboro and beliiK
all of tin- stockholders of said eoiporn
tlon, havo Hied their bill In the Court
of Chancery within ami for the county
i.r Windham netting foith that raid cor
poration owes no debts, claims or 11a
uilltles of any kind or description what
soever: that there Is no one whatsoever
who has any lt jjal or uqultnlile claim or
demand nuainst or Interest in or to said
corporation or any of its assets except
ing snid petitioners; that at a special
meeting of the stockholders of said cor
poration it was voted to dissolve said
oipointlon pursuant to Sees. 12S1-4.M;
c l the public Statutes, and
Wheieas tile prayer of the petitioner is
that upon such notice as renulred by law
I that said Court of Chancery shall decree
the winding up -of all the affalis of said
Uoipoiatinn ami authorize the capital
stock and assets to lie divided anions the
stoi holders thereof.
IT Irf r.KDiCHIjn that all creditors of
said corporation, if any there be, file
specilications of their claims with the
cleik of tile Com t of Chancery within
and for the county of Windham on or be
lore the llrst day of March. HOT and that
said ci editors and the stocklioldeis or
other members of said corporation or
other persons Interested appear before
the Court of Chancery within and for the
County of Windham at Newfnno In snld
county on tho second Tuesday of April.
1H1T, then and theie to show etiuse, if
.inv thev have, whv the prayer of said
. bill should not bo giiiiitcd.
I IT IB FfltTIIKIt OIUMCItrcn that the
i petltioiu'is notily said creditors If an,
j or other persons aforesaid, of the pen
dency of said bill and of tho time for
' 111. nt; specilications of their claims as
aforesaid, hv causing this older of notice
to be published In Tho Vermont Phoenix.
i a. weekly newspaper published at said
Prattlelioro three times successively, the
llrst publication thereof to be on the 15th
. d,i of December, llilii.
' Dated at St. .lohnsbury, in the County
nf Caledonia, this -1 til day of December,
50-0:: I. K ic:h ton p. sr,.u'K,
I Chunoellor.
ESTATE OF WILLIAM P. RYAN.
CT.Y.TK OF VKUMONT.
' District of Marlboro. SS.
The Honoiable 1'iobatc Court for the
District Aforesaid:
To the hells anil all persons Interested
In the estate of William I". Ityau. late of
(iullfmd, In said district, deceased,
(ireetlng:
Whereasj application hath been mndo
to this court in wiitimr, by the adnflnis
ti.itrlx praying for Hcenf-e and author
ity to sell all of real estate of Mid de
feased, representing to said rourt that It
would be bcuellcial to the hells and all
persons Interested In the estute of wild
deceased, lo sell said real estato and
I' inveH tho same Into money.
And bringing into court thu consent In
writing, of all Hie heirs to said estate
residing In tills state, and setting forth
the situation of the real estato.
Wlieieupon, tho said court appolnfol
and assigned tho 30th day of December,
at the lirobitn ollice in Iliattleboio.
In said district, to hear and decide upon
nali aim icat on and net t on. and oidere.l
nuhllp notice thereof to lie ulven to all
pei'mms inteiested therein, by publishing
said order, together with mo time anu
nlaen of hearing, three weeks successive
ly In The Vermont Phoenix, a newspaper
which circulates in tho neighborhood of
thoNo persrns Interested In snld estate,
nil of which publlo'itlons shall bo pre
vious to tho day assigned for hearing.
Therefore, you are horoby notified to
noponr before said court, at the. tlmo and
pheo assigned, then 'and there in sild
court to. make your ohlectlonrf to the
urmtlng of such license, if you see cause!
Olven under my hnnd at nratllehoro,
In said dlstilet, this 13th day of Decern
her, 1910,
DO-53 A. F. SOJIWHNK, Judge,
First Mortgage Loans
This Company offers every facility for safo and profitable invest
ment of surplus funds in carefully solccted Farm Mortgages in Montana,
Idaho, Washington and Orogon, to not 0 per cent. Thcso mortgagos are
the choicest offerings from theso sections, and aro especially deslrablo
for financial institutions, holdors of trust funds, or privato investors,
placing safoty of principal above returns. Our officers havo had long
years of experience in tills field. Our sorvico will meet tho requirements
of tho most exacting,
Vermont Loan & Trust Company
F. B. PUTNAM, Sales Manager, BRATTLEBORO, VERMONT
FOE SALE.
FOR SALE Hand-picked apples. It.
Uus.sots, Hottlc nnd lthoilo Island (Itccn
ItiRs; Iinldivlns smiled n cording to tho
new luw. Tel. 9-4. R A. I'lllCU'S. 17-tf
FOR SALE 1 V. H. cream separator, 1
rook stove, 1 heater and 'i pairs heavy
work hurnesses, all In Kood condition.
HtA JAY Dl'TTOX, Wardaboro, Vt.
4S-tf
FOR SALE Eleven three year old
steers. Kino grade, good condition. Also
tlnce yearling heifers. Apply Fltts Farm,
West Dummerston, 13. 11. Howard, Mtjr.
P. O. Address It. D. 5, IJrattleboro. Tel.
3-15. 43-tf
FOR SALE Pair well-matched black
horses, weigh about 1VJ00 lbs., sound and
Kentle, extra Rood workers und In good
order. Price low, as "I havo no uso for
them. Call or write K. A. KSTABUOOK,
Wilmington, Vt. 49-5::
FOR SALE 45 Horses. We arrived
Dee. with .10 head. Havo 10 to select
from. Ten pairs, 2,000 to 3.400, balance
2,100 to 2,800, and singles 1,100 to 1,750.
Several nice big Pereherons, Delginn
mares In lot. A few seconds, 1,100 to
l.ioo. Also sleds, sleighs, blankets, and
collars and harness. All horses war
ranted. CITLFOUD & WOOD HOUSE
CO.. F. J. Wood, Prop., Shelburne Fall?.
Mass, 49-51
FOR SALE The well known TYLEIl
FA KM at South Veinon. Vt. About 130
acies, tillaRe, pasture and woodland.
I. u Re farm buildings in Rood condition;
tobacco barn neatly new. Hay, sti.c.i,
tools and machinery with the place, Lo
I'.'itcd two miles from stores, postolllce
and railway station; 'i 1-2 miles from
N'-rthlleld semlnarj. Two trout brooks
on the place. Call or write to GEOltGE
IC TYI hit, .South Vernon, Vt. 51-2
FOR SALE Koity horses. Wo will nr
ilvu Dec. 23 with 30 head. Five teams
3200 to 3700; live teams, 2C0O to 2D00,
300O, 3100; several bl mares in load,
ICno to ISOo; single horses 1250 to 1700.
All youiiR. sound, and nice quality. A
few seconds cue pair, age 0 and 12, 2000,
Rood order and true; one black mare, 5.
1100; ono black horse, 1350, age 0. Team
sleds for one and two horses. Team and
driving harness. Sleighs and blankets.
AH horses warranted as lepresented.
Next load In three weeks. Gril.FOKD &
WOOD HORSE CO.. F. J. Wood, Prop..
Shelburne Falls, Mass. 61-52
SPECIAL NOTICES.
CHIROPODY nnd Shampoo Parlors
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. MRS. K. P. BAXLJ3Y, 117
Main St. Phone. 19-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING of all kinds
and chimney cleaning done to order.
13. D. TOItltEY, 59 Frost St., Brattlebo
ro. Telephone 476-W.
The Melrose Hospital
WEST BRATTLEBORO, VT.
Well equipped for tho enro of medi
cal, surgical and confinement cases, also
chronic Invalids, rheumatics, nervous and
mild mental cases. Skilled nursing, good
food and reasonable rates.
DK. K. It. LYNCH. Supt.
Helena D. Mathews, Matron.
LIBERAL REWARD
Will be juld for information which will
result in tho arrest and conviction of
tho petson or persons who stole 12 Mus
covy ducks frcm the Maple Grove Faim
In Vernon. MitS. Jl'UA S. FltO.ST.
Veinon, VI., Dec. 20. 51
More people succumb
to wony than to tho troubles they wor
ry about. A life Insurance policy helps
on.) to avoid worry. C7tli year. National
Life Insurance Company, Montpeller. Vt.
ALBERT C. LAIRD, Special Agent
Abbott Block, Brattleboro Vt.
A
present every week
in the year for
$1.50
WANTED.
WANTED lit Northampton, Mass.,
maid who can cook, for general house
work. Address HMA.IA. HOI'S E, PhoenlN
Cilice. 51
WANTED Woman for general house
work at once. fnly competent help need
apply. MitS. W. D. HOWKN, Saxtons
lllver, Vt. 50-51
WANTED At tho Melrose hospital,
West Urattleboro, Vt.. a Rood, strong
young womnn as laundress. Good pay to
reliable help. 01-tf
WANTED Ten teams to draw pulp
wood from -Marlboro for the American
Realty Co. Price. $3 per t'ord. Inquire
of V. A. UVKItOW. 51
WANTED Man and wife Man for
chores and Reneial farm work, must be
a Rood milker; womnn for Reneial house
woik. Address with reference Wales U.
Adams, Dickinson Farm, Kural 1, Box
SI, Urattleboro, Vt. ; Gl-tf
WANTED GIIUjS (n operate clothes
pin and dish machines nnd for counters
and packers. Wurch $.2. per day with a
bonus of ?1 per week; to every Rlrl who
works her lull number of hours. Countots
and packers who pack 100 boxes a day
will be paid $1.50 per day strnlRht. Kx
eellent boardinRhouso in connection
where board and room may bo obtained
for $100 per week. Matron In attend
ance, parlors for (ho girls, hot and cold
water, and all conveniences. Faro to
this town will be ret'lined to all girls who
remnln In our employ o days. Address
Id'DIN'CTON WOODK.VWAH12 CO.,
Wilmington, Vt. 51
EXCLUSIVE UNDERTAKING
Embalmers
Automobile Sarrlca Telephone 261-W
ORATfLGBOnO VT.
Eating Less Moat.
(Springfield Union.)
Tho effect of tho bich prices is shown
in the falling- off in tee per capita con
sumption of mc.il vaV.U ilrofjpe'l-from
S7.5 pounds in 100!) to 72 pounds in
1014. Tho figures for 1015 aro not
nvnilable, but in all probability when
they are at hnnd they will show still
further reduction, as will also the fig
ures for 191!) are not available, but in
nil probability when they are nt hand
they will show a still further reduc
tion, as will nlso tho figures for tho cur
rent year. Higher prices seem to bo
accomplishing 'what medical experts
and dietitians have been recommending
for years, und the reduced consumption
of moat probably will bo beneficial to
those that can still afford to purchase
a supply sufficient to their actual needs.
The real hardship falls on the families
of small means that find themselves
unable to buy as much meat at the
present prices as a properly balanced
diet requires.
"For over 40 years tho organization
of milk shippers in Xew England has
lioen so good that our farmers havo
netted more for milk than in any
other section." This statement is made
by no less authority than The Xow
England Homestead. But now our lo
enl dairymen propose to go still fur
ther. They aro organizing local unions
to get better prices for all dniry pro
ducts all the time, through tho Xow
England milk producers' association.
Send The Vermont Phoenix to some
out-of-town friend this Christmas
TEN PAGES
BRATTLEBORO,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1!) 10.
THE VERMONT PHCENIX
Published la Brattleboro CTery Friday,
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE $1.50 A TEAR.
$1.00 for eight months; 75 cents for tlx
months; SO cents tor four months ; 40 cents
for three months. All subscriptions aro par
able strictly In advance, and all papers arc
stopped promptly at their expiration unless
the Subscriptions are renewed.
Rates of display advertising furnished on
application. Small classified advertisements,
10 cents per lino first Insertion, five cents per
line each subsequent insertion.
(Entered at the Brattleboro pott office as
second class mall matter.)
THE CHRISTMAS WISH.
I risli you health, and love, and mirth,
As fits tho solemn Christmastide,
As fits tho holy Christmas birth.
Bo this, good friends, our carol still
Be peace on earth, be peace on earth,
To men of gentle will.
William Makepeace Thackeray,
"And may God bless us every one,'
said Tiny Tim, the last of all.
CLARICE 0. TITTS.
It is but natural to eulogize the dead,
and to be extravagant in our estimate
of their qualities when our hearts are
touched with sorrow in the thought that
wo shall seo them and know them no
re, but, in speaking of Clarke C.
Fitts, The Phoenix will try only to ex
press what all who knew' him intimately
felt, and what many of us have said re
pcatedly to mutual friends.
Hrattlcboro has lost her foremost citi
zen, who lias gone from earth at the
comparatively early ago of 4G. Tho
leading lawyer of his state, the keenest
mind in all tho galaxy of his profession
in Vermont, tho most ardent believer,
and advocate, and worker for his own
town and state has gone out of life in
the height of his power and usefulness,
Clarke Fitts might havo beqn arlljg
man of affairs in other commonwealths.
Ho knew this, but despito alluring of'
fcrs to form connection with famous
law firms in Now York and olsewhoro
ho preforred to work out his destiny in
the state in which ho was born and
which ho loved with a devotion and loy
alty of a true son.
"A country lawyer" ho might have
been called, but n country lawyer who
could turn down an offer of $'2o,000 u
year without a (pialni when tho big law
yers of his country's metropolis wanted
him.
Many persons believed that Mr. Fitts
would not bo averse to political profer
ment some day. A personal friend once
asked him directly whether ho had any
ambitions in this direction, or would
have when he had accumulated a com
petence and felt that ho could command
his time for public service. His reply
was that ho had nothing of tho kind in
mind; that ho thought he was accom
plishing as much for himself, for others,
for his town and for his state bv con
tinuing to devoto his efforts along the
lines in which ho was then working.
The varied activities in which Mr.
Fitts took a prominent and helpful part
are told in another column. The great
power station at Vernon never would
have been built but for his far-sighted
vision and tireless efforts. His work in
securing for Ilrnttleboro tho major por
tion of tho Thompson fund, which brings
to this community upwards of $;i!,000
a year for beneficent work, was a mas
terly effott. Most of tho industries
which havo been established or enlarged
in Urattleboro wero helped by Mr.
Fitts. In fact, there has been no local
public enterprise in tho past -0 years
that has not felt the impetus of his en
thusiasm, Mr. Fitts was a faithful and loyal
friend. Ho stood by and was nlways
ready to give assistance to tho men ho
liked and in whom ho had confidence.
Ho never forgot those who helped him
in tho days of his early struggles nnd
privations and welcomed oveiy oppor
tunity to repay this assistance, (lifted
with a wonderfully retentivo memory,
ho could marshal facts, incidents and
anecdotes to marvelous effect in his pro
fessional prnctieo and public addresses.
Ho was in great demand as a public
speaker, though making no protenco to
oratorical powers, and in recent years
had spoken in scores of towns in Ver
mont on politicnl subjects and in ad
vocaey of water-power conservation.
Mr. Fitts wns ono of tho men blessed
alike in having found his work and hav
ing joy in its performance. What would
bo to many au irksome task would bo
disposed of by him without apparent cf
fort. Ho combined tho qualities of n
rcinarkablo lawvor with those of
shrewd business man. His conliections
with institutions and establishments
covered a wide range, but ho always
found time for work along civic, social,
religious and moral lines for commun
ity, county and state betterment.
Clarke C. Fltts was a remarkable per
sonality. Those in a position to best
judgo his intellectual attainments have
said that Vermont has not produced
half a dozen men his equal in the pres
ent generation. Certainly the state
never had a more enthusiastic supporter,
a more efficient servant or a more loyal
sou.
MILK PRODUCERS TO ORGANIZE.
Plans whereby milk producers expect
to gain control of tho entire milk pro
duction of New England have been in
augurated at Springfield and Secretary
Klchard Pattee of the New England
Milk Producers' association has sent
out calls which will result in tho organ
izntion, within a month, of moro than
200,000 dairymen into a strong central
body.
These producers aro to meet at their
respective county seats on Saturday,
Dee. .'!0, to effect a local organization
and send delegates to a general organ
ization meeting. It is planned to effect
the organization before the annual meet
ing of the Now England Milk Prodtt
eors' association in lioston in February
The now organization would control the
output of SOO.OOO cows, and it is planned
as a means to secure a square deal from
the denlers as well as to boost the home
consumption of Now England products
in competition with western dairy prod
ucts. This should result in a benefit to the
home consumer not only in the matter
of price, but also in the very important
matter of the freshness of the goods
that such an association will be in a
position to put out.
America has been accounted very lib
eral in her assistance to the distressed
peoples of the foreign countries wrecked
by the terrible war. Sho has given
many millions in money, food, clothing,
etc. But the total sum of her benefi
cence looks pitifully small when it ap
pears from official sources that it
amounts to only one-twentieth of one
per cent of tho total wealth of tho
country, estimated' nt- $2jj0,Q00,000l,i.)C(),
Boston went license by one of the
largest majorities in its history Tues
day, but thu temperance workers in Mas
sachusetts mndo two notable gains that
day, voting to banish the saloon in
Fitchburg and North Adams. North
Adams has been an awful rum holo for
30 years. In tho 37 municipal elections in
Massachusetts within a few weeks six
cities changed from license to no license,
and the saloon interests failed to change
a single city which was already in the
dry column.
Luther Whiteomb, tho patriarch and
sage of Wardsboio, is dead at the age
of 0-1. He was a link to pioneer days
in Windham county, his mother having
been the hist white girl bom in Jamai
ca. The respect of his fellow townsmen
wns shown when in ISO I he was elected
a member of the legislature by a unan
imous vote. He was a steward in the
Methodist church ."0 years. Ho was not
only a man of clean chaiacter, but of
kindly heart, and one who kept the es
teem and affection of all who knew
him in a remarkable degree.
Something in the nature of count
ing one's chickens before they aro
hatched is tho Vossisehc Zeitung's
statement of the German plan for the
paititlou of lUimania among several
adjoining nations at the close of tho
war. That this arrangement would suit
tho purposes of Germany, Austria and
Bulgaria is not to be doubted, but it
remains to bo secit what voice tho
central powers will havo in the final
settlement when it comes. Unless tho
Teutonic nlliancc achieves a decisive
ictory over the entente powers there
is not the slightest likelihood of the dis
memberment of Rumania.
The wholo world will hopo that, the
report of tho discovery of tho scarlet
fever bacillus is true, as it will mean
that n proper remedy for combatting
the dteaded disease will soon bo forth
coming, making another long advauco
step to tho credit of medical science.
Scarlet fovor has been pretty woll con
trolled in recent years through strict
quarantines, but thero aro older people
who will recall tho time when the dis
eoso ran in epidemic form through
mnny Vermont communities, cnusing a
largo percentogo of deaths nnd leaving
many of thoso who recovered suffering
from weaknesses which impaired their
efficiency for years and sometimes for
life.
Miss Jennlo Culberson Towers, of
Gormantown, Pa., is believed to bo tho
champion Sunday school attendant of
nil times. For moro than -11 years she
has attended tho samo Sunday school
without missing a Sunday.
TO WARRING NATIONS
President Wilson Makes an Ap
peal Without Proposing Peace
iDoca Not Offer Mediation, But Wants
Term Discussed Our Own Rights
May Become Involved.
Tn formal notes to all the belligerents
President .Wilson, .without .proposing
pence or offering mediation, has op
pealed to them to diseuts terms which
may end the war.
The Ptesidcnt's notes havo been vir
tually -IS hours on their way today and
officials beliovo that they hud nil
leached tho foreign capitals.
Diplomatists think it is ilicrcdibh'
that President Wilson should have
taken this action without some belief
that it would not be flatly rejected
without consideration by tho entente
allic.
Officials and diplomatists, analyz
ing the President's note, find some
thing deeper than an appeal for consid
eration of peace terms. They seo that
the President was nlso considering
what would have been tho course of
the 1'iiited States to conserve its in
terests as a neutral if tho war is to
continue.
Distinct surprise was apparent among
diplomatic officials in Washington tu
dny over President Wilson's plea to
the European belligerents to discuss
pence terms, rubliention yesterday ot the
notes gave most officials the hrst notice
that such a step was even contemplated
at this time.
Opinions hero inclined to tho view
that the action would give strong en
couragement to some sort of exchanges
which might result in discussion of defi
nite peace teims.
It was believed, lurther, that sunn
the Piesident seeks only a clarification
of peace views and does not offer medi
ation tho United States will not bo
placed in an embarrassing position if
the European nations should be unable
to develop a basis ou which to approach
the other.
Officials of the British embassy de
clared thev wero wholly unable to ex
plain the action.
C ount on Bcrnstorll, the German
ambassador, said: "Now I am perfect
lv convinced thero will bo a confer
ence." He inav- confer with Sccretnry
Lansing today.
Deepest interest centered yesterday in
tho probable time and form of tho bel
ligerents' reply. It is nssumed that tho
members of each group of allies will
consult oni; another' snrtpgrrc pn n, in
form statement of views. If is thought
nlso that some time may elapso before
t ho groups can sottlo down to an ac
tual agreement ou terms to bo pre
sented. Meanwhile tho allied cnteuto
response to tho central jiowers' pro
posals are expected almost any timo
for transmission through this country
to their various destinations.
Count Von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, conferred with Secretary
Lansing today and it was understood
the secretary explained President Wil
son 's action" in addressing the belliger
ents. Secretary Lansing, in a statement
today, in explaining the sending of
President Wilson's note to the bclljger
cuts, declared it was because tho situa
tion for neutrals was becoming in-
lereasiugly critical and tho United
States itself was being drawn near the
j verge of war. The statement says in
i nr.rt:
'II is not our inaienni niicrc.sin "
had iii mind when the noto was sent,
but more and more our own rights aro
becoming involved by the belligerents
on both sides so that the situation is
becoming increasingly critical.
"I mean by that that we aro draw
ing near tho verge of war ourselves
and therefore we are entitled to know
exactly what each belligerent seeks in
order that we may regulate our con
duet in the future. No nations havo
been sounded; no consideration of the
Germnn overtures or of the speech oi
Lloyd George was taken into account.
The only thing the overtures did was
to delay it a few days."
Secretary Lansing further said:
"The sending of the note will indicate
tho possibilities of our being forced
into the war. That wissibilitv ought to
! serve as a restraining and sobering
force, bafeiniarding American right.
It may also serve to force an earlier
conclusion of the war.
"Neither tho President nor myself
regard this note as a pence note. It
is merely an effort to get tho belliger
ents to define tho ends for which they
aie fighting."
At the White House no effort was
made to lesson the importance of See
votary Lansing's statement. President
Wilson would make no comment. Presi
dent Wilson himself on several opea
sinns has .ntod out the danger of the
United States becoming involved in the
war. Because of violations of Ameri
can rights lie has felt that the United
States had a verv difficult role to fill.
Rather Technical.
(Rutland Herald.)
Thirtv-two milk dealers failed to com
ply with the Burlington city test for
"the fresh, clean lacteal secretion ob
tained by the complete milking of one
or moro healthy cows, tuberculin tested,
which contains not less than 8 per
cent solids, 3.2.1 per cent milk fat nnd
not moro than 200,000 bacteria per
cnliie centimeter." How such a list
must make tho old-fashioned milkman
rear and tear!
Danish testy have shown that con
crete is not affected by long immersion
in tho ocean, even for as long as half
a century.
Ho jests at family jars who never
had a mother-in-law to pry the lid off.
