First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. AUGUST 11, 1916.
NUMBER 25
County Contracts To
Foss And Howell
Close Bidding Oil Lahaina School
Cottage Job By Five Contracts
Foss Much Below Others On Bridge
Job
x The board of supervisors today
awarded the contract for building a
2-bedroom teachers' cottage at La
haina to the Hugh Howell Engineer
ing Company, at its bid of $2,015, time
30 days. Other tenders submitted
were Charles Savage, $2,465; J. K.
Emmesley, $2,222.22; A. Hussey, $1,
960; E. C. Mellor. $1,975. Each of
theBfl bidders asked for 45 days time
for the job, and the Howell company
won out on account of the 15 days
less time asked.
Foss Gets Bridge Contract
Three bids were submitted for build
ing the new concrete bridge over the
Olowalu stream, in the Lahaina dist
rict, the contract being awarded to
J. C. Foss, Jr., at his bid of $3,892, time
70 days. The Hugh Howell Engineer
ing Company's tender was $7,135,
time 60 days; and E. C. Mellor bid
$5,750, time 60 days.
Plowman Falls Under
Plow And Is Killed
While handling the levers of a big
5-disc gang plow, which was being
drawn by a tractor, Kisaburo Yoshida,
a Japanese laborer, aged 35, fell be
neath the implement and was so badly
Injured that he died about two hours
later. The nian is survived by a wife
And two small children, who live at
Haiku.
The acefdent occured about 12:30
o'clock last Friday afternoon on the
lands of the Haiku Ranch company,
just east of Maliko gulch. Just what
caused the man to fall is unknown,
as none of the other workmen hap
pened to be looking toward him at
the time. As he fell, a wheel of the
heavy plow passed directly across his
face, crushing the skull. He was rush
ed to the Paia hospital, but died a
. short time after reaching the insti
tution. At the coroner's Inquest held on
Saturday, a verdict of accidental death
was returned. '
Eleven Would Sacrifice
Selves For Public Weal
E'.even sets of nomination papers
had been taken out in Maul county up
to noon today, by aspirants for legis
lative honors. All of them hope to
serve their fellow citizens as repre
sentatives in the house, no senatorial
candidates having as yet presented
themselves. Three of the candidates
are from Molokai. They are Levi
Mahlai, Kaunakakai; Charles Kaanoi
Pukoo: and J. K. Kaupu, Pukoo.
Charles K. Makekau, of Lahaina, is
again in the race; as is Levi Joseph,
of Hana, who served in the lower
house some years ago. M. G. Pas
choal. of Puunene, is also in line.
Wailuku district has five candidates
up to date, as follows : W. F. Crockett,
Enos Vincent, R. J. K. Nawahine, Sam
Kuula, and Rev. L. B. Kauineheiwa.
, ..
i
Salvation Army Girls'
Band To Visit Maui
A novel entertainment, of which a
girls' brass band of 20 pieces will be
a prominent feature, will be given in
the various theatres of central and
wat Maul next week. The occasion is
the visit of a delegation from the
Salvation Army's Manoa Girls' Home,
In Honolulu, and is in the nature of
an outing for the girls. The entertain
mont which is said to be a highly
creditable one. Is given to defray ex
penses of the trip. The band win
nnen at the Kahului Lvceum on next
Wednesday, August 16; will play at
the Wailuku Orpheum on Friday even
. ing; and at the Paia Orpheum on
Saturday evening.
The Salvation Army Manoa Home
nnw cares for about 90 homeless girls.
It is for a similar institution to care
for orphan boys that G. N. Wilcox, or
Kauai, has lately donated $50,000 t(.
the Salvation Army. The boys' home
will also be in Manoa valley.
-u
FINED FOR HEEDLESS DRIVING
Convicted for heedless driving, Joe
Correa, the chauffeur who capsized his
car near the Island Electric power
house, last week and painfully injur
ed himself and two passengers, was
fined $50 and his license suspended
' for one year, by Judge McKay. It is
Bald that Correa was racing with a
train on the Kahului Railroad at the
time the accident occured.
CROCKETT GETS HIS HAT IN RING
W. F. Crockett, who was a little coy
in getting into the legislative race
two years ago, has entirely lost his
baBhfulness, and is the second to file
his nomination papers with the ter
ritorlal secretary. He wishes to sue
ceed himself as representative from
Wailuku.
Polo To Be Harvest
Home Day Feature
Arrangements Made For Usual Full
Day Of Sports Honoluluennis
And Bowling Teams Will Arrive
Tomorrow
A polo game will be a feature of
tomorrow's Harvest Home cerebration.
It had been understood that the usual
polo game would be omitted this year,
but with the return of Manager Bald
win arrangements were made by
which a picked team of Honolulu play
ers will be here to meet the first Maui
team. At present it is not known
just which Oahu men w;Il come, ex
cept that Walter Dillingham will be
one. Harold Castle and Dob Shingle
are other possibilities. The game will
begin on the Keahua field at 4 o'clock.
Crack Tennis Men Coming
Last year Puunene lost the tennis
tournament to the Honolulu visitors
by a single point. This year a very
strenuous effort will be made to re
trieve th's loss by a good margin, and
the Puunene knights of the racquet
have been working hard in prepara
tion for the big contest. The person
nel of the Oahu players who will ar
rive tomorrow morning is as follows :
Honolulu team: Warren and Hoogs,
Hanr.ock and Lowrey, Podmore
and Cooke, Rice and Maciarlaue,
Pfleuger aud Kennedy, Cunha and
Davis, Olsen and Hoogs, Castle and
Nowell.
Puunene team: Collins and W. D.
Baldwin, Rosecrans and W. A. Bald
win, Rice and Burns, F. Sawyer and A.
McLaren, Lougher and MacKenzie,
Hansen and Taylor, Engle and ThomJ
son, McNicol and J. McLaren.
Bowlers Also Coming
The various sports of the day will
begin on the Puunene grounds at 9o'
clock, chief of which besides the ten
nis games will be the bowling con
test. The Honolulu bowlers were de
feated last year by a heavy margin.
In the team expected to arrive to
morrow morning are Capt. Norris
Stayton, Scott, Clark, White, and Win
ne. The Maui team will consist of
Nelson, Paschoal, Lufkin, Chaterton
and Dienert '
Dance In New Club House
No pains have been spared by the
members of the Puunene Athletic
Club, and by the officers of the H. C.
& S. Company In the preparations for
the big celebration, which promises to
be on an even more elaborate scale
than in former years. Invitations
went out the first of the week to
some 500 people and it is certain that
a large crowd will be in attendance.
An elaborate lunch is ptanned for
noon Ume. The day will close with
the usual dance, which will be held in
the new clubhouse .
Island Of Lanai May
Be Sold To Nevada Man
For the purpose, it is reported of
looking into the proposition of selling
the island of Lanai to a wealthy Nev
ada capitalist for $1,000,000, members
of the Lanai Company are on the
island this week. In the party are
R. W. Shingle, John T. McCrosson, N.
B. Pitman, J. H. Mackenzie, J. K.
ivananianaoCe, Jay Gould, and H. J.
Lorentzen. Mr. Lorentzen, it is said,
holds an option on the property for
the Nevada man. If the deal goes
through the island is to be developed
as -a cattle and sheep ranch.
-tt-
GUESTS OF RAYMOND RANCH
Arriving by the Mauna Kca from
Honolulu last Saturday ev. nlng, under
the chaperonage of Mrs. Helen Noon
an, the following well known young
society girls of Honolulu have been
spending the week at the Raymond
Ranch. They will probably return to
Honolulu by the Manoa tomorrow
evening after attending the Harvest
Home festivities. In the party are
Mrs. Noonan, Miss Wilhelmina Ten
ney, Miss Alice Mucfarlane, Miss Vio
let Makee, Miss llattie Lucas, Miss
Alice Hastings, Miss L. Brundred,
Miss Jessie Kennedy, and Miss Mary
Lucas.
VALUE OF GREEN MANURE
DEMONSTRATED
On a test Held of corn on the Ha
waii experiment station's extension
farm at Haiku, F. G. Krauss
has recently harvested a crop yielding
at the rate of over ninety bushels per
acre. The land had been liberally
green manured and had also some
commercial fertilizer. An adjoining
plot which had the commercial' fertil
izer but not the green manure, yield
ed very much less.
AIKENS TO MAKE LONG TRIP
By the Manoa, sailing from Kahului
tomorrow evening, will go Mr. and
Mrs. Worth O. Aiken, of Paia, and
their daughter, Miss Martha for an ex
tended tour of the mainland. The
daughter is to be placed in school on ;
the Coast, following which Mr. aud I
Mrs. Aiken plan to spend four or five !
months traveling in the east and !
middle west. j
Racing Association
Gains New Members
Highly Satisfactory Meeting Finds
Organization In Good Financial
v Condition II. Gooding Field
Named On Executive Committee
The annual meeting of the Maul
Racing Association was hld at the
Maui Hotel on last Friday evening,
August the 4th, at 7:30 o'c'ock.
President C. D. Lufkin called the
meeting to order with an attendance
of members larger than for many
years. The financial report of the
usFociation which had born passed
upon by the executive committee, was
highly acceptable. It showed that the
executive committee had expended
io5 for the rebuilding of fence, re
pairing damages done by storm; had
paid of all current expenses and
old debts, and applied the sum of $200
on the notes held by the First National
Bank of Wnlluku.
Ten new members of the association
were elected as follows Waiter Dil
lingham, It. W. Shingle, A. H. Rice,
Walter McFarlane, John Grace,
George Beckley, F. H. Locev, F. F.
Baldwin, H. A. Baldwin, and S. A.
Baldwin.
H. Gooding Field was nominated as
a member of the executive committee,
and elected by unanimous vote as the
third member of the executive com
mittee. It was decided that in all
future meets, a paddock judge shall
be appointed with or without pay, who
shall have full authority over the pad
dock. -a-
Maui Teachers Pass
Stiff Exminations
Out of 183 Applicants In Territory
But 43 Obtain Certificates Good
Proportion Get First Grade Permits
Others For Lower Grades .
A good proportion of Maul school
teachers successfully passed the teach
ers examination held in Honolufu last
week. Of a total of 181 persons who
took the examinations 43 percent pass
ed the Jests.
The following were successful In the
examinations for grammar grade cer
tificates: Edward Smythe, Miss B. L. Hund
ley, Margaret Dunn, Miss W. Fukuda,
Ethel Crowell, B. L. Kamakau, Mrs.
K. P. Hafford, Mrs. M. C.' Sisson, Miss
C. Dawson, Z. McKeague, Miss A.
Luscomb, Mrs. C. Y. Cockett, Miss H.
Kaai Co'.eburn, Miss A.E. Davis, David
Kaai, John J. Pavao.
Other successful applicants were as
follows:
Primary certificates Margaret
Lunn, Helen Colburn, Bertha Fursey,
Mrs. M. Buch, Gertie Macfie, Mrs.
A. T. Wong, Mrs. A. K. Low, Frank
Iguacio, Mollie Cummins.
Second permit Minnie Fukuda,
Ethel Crowell, Ah Moy Ahu. Christine
Enimsley, Miss H. Hiroshima, Fran
ces Foster, Mrs. Helen Bruns, Lulu
Solomon, Miss M. Lopez, Miss M. Men
gler, Mrs. C. B. Hears, Eva Reis, Mrs.
K. Williams, Mrs. L. Watson, Mrs. M.
Luiz, D. Lyman, Mrs. L. Peck, Mrs.
C. Webling.
First permit Ethel Banham, Ger
trude Buchanan, Miss E. L. Baldwin,
Carrie Arthur, Mrs. E. Abrahamsen,
Mrs. E. Bayle8s. Mrs. Lang Akana,
Yin Kyan Chung, Mrs. Julia Cockett,
Annie D. Araujo, Helen L. Moore, Mar
guerite Moore, Wilfred Richardson,
Monica Militante, Mrs. N. M. Munday,
Elizabeth Wylkie, En Kyan Yap, Amy
Wung, Jennie Stewart, Lucy Aki, Vio
let Wong Wai, Esther Stephenson,
Miss E. M. Tomlinson, Gus Welding,
Ruth Mossman, Mrs. M. M. McDride,
Edna Keven, Henry Lee, Miss Kaui
Kanakaole, Naomi-Kaihiane, Will.uiu
Laeha, Solomon Kekipl, May E. Dunn,
Carmen Diets, Ethel P. Kr.leo, Leonora
Collier, Laura Hills, Warren Hafford,
Mary jansen, Maude Manning, Gene
vieve Carvalho, Carrie Dur.n.
New District Magistrate
Succeeds Guy S. Goodness
Joseph G. Anjo, appointed by Gov
ernor Tinkham to succeed Guy S.
Goodness as district magistrate for
Makawao, received his commission
last Saturday and assumed his new
duties the first of this week. His first
otlicial act was the committing to the
insane asylum of a young man named
Frank I'erreira, who was adjudged in
sane. A short time later a Filipino,
who had also been causing some un
easiness was also found to be insane
and was also committed to the asylum.
Joseph Aroyo, a Filipino, was conv
icted of vagrancy and sentenced to
two months in jail.
rri... ...w.l ..w.n r.f AT,. A n Ia in thp
lilt? U lllilll V. . ..II . V J w
Makawao district court Ix'iieh has
been generally approved. He is a
well-known and progressive young
resident of Makawao district, and his
friends anticipate that he will make a I
splendid record. '
Golden Anniversary
To BeCelebrated
Wailuku Union Church Planning Sever
al Days Of Program Committee
Appointed To Make Plans October
10 Is Date
The fiftieth anniversary of the org
anization of the Wailuku Union
Church will occur on October 10. The
fact of the anniversary of the grant
ing of the charter to the trustees:
Christopher H. Lowers, Sherman Peck
and Henry Cornwall, on October 10th,
1K66 was brought to the attention of
the present board of trustees, and H.
It. Penhallow, the chairman called a
meeting last Suuday evening after
church service. In connection with
this meeting. Rev. R. B. Dodge called
a meeting of the standing committee
of the church, and the joint meeting
discussed at some length the matter
of a proper cebrat.;on. A committee
consisting of the minister; W. A. Mc
Kay, clerk; and L. R. Mathews, dea
con, was appointed to confer and draw
up plans for the celebration. The cel
ebration will possibly cover one or
two days near the tenth of October.
The Sunday that falls on the 8th will
probably be the day that will be large
ly used for the celebration, and a
program of unusual interest will un
doubted'y be arranged.
The Wailuku Union Church has a
very interesting history, which will
undoubtedly be brought out in Oct
ober. Haiku Experiment In
Storing Eggs Success
During the spring of this year when
eggs were plentiful two experiments
were undertaken in storing eggs. One
consisted in putting the eggs in cold
storage at Wailuku, the other in put
ting eggs in "water glass" at home.
The experiment at home was con
ducted by Mrs. W. I. Wells, at Haiku.
Twenty-five cents worth of the cryst
als of sodium silicate was bought and
dissolved by boiling in water, It w.as
hard to dissolve, and some did not
dissolve at all. Mrs. Wells says she
will not try to dissolve it again, but
will buy the liquid next time. Never
theless it is well to remember that it
can be gotten in the crystal form, and
in that form is easily mailed from a
drug store, rn case the liquid cannot
be bought nearby, which is likely to
be the case here in the islands. After
the boiling the liquid was put in a
stone crock and when cold three dozen
eggs w-ere put in. After some months
they were perfectly good. We know of
another case on Maul where the eggs
were good after a year.
The cold storage experiment was
not successful at all. After a few
months a. large proportion of the eggs
were bad. Cold storage is used every
where for keeping eggs in large
quantities, and we do not know just
why it was such a failure in this case.
For home use the water glass will
prove entirely satisfactory. It is both
cheap and easy. Farmers Bulletin
287, "Poultry Management" describes
the method as follows:
"Eggs to be stored should be: First,
from hens that have no males with
them, because an infertile egg keeps
longer, even without the use of a pre
servative, than a fertile egg; second,
perfectly fresh, for not only will they
keep much better, but if an egg that
has begun to decay is placed in the
same vessel with fresh ones ir is like
ly to affect all the surrounding eggs;
and, third, perfectly clean, for filth of
any kind adhering to the shell will
taint the preserving medium and thus
taint the other eggs.
"In placing eggs In the preserv
ative be cartful not to crack the
shells. Keep them in a moderately
cool room where the temperature may
be kept fairly constant. A dry, clean
cellar Is a suitable place.
"Water-glasi. Of the many meth
ods which have been tried for pre
serving eggs on a smalt scale none has
proved more successful than the use
of water-glass (sodium silicate). This
Is a very cheap product that can usual
ly be procured at not to exceed 50
cents a gallon, and one gallon will
make enough solution to preserve 50
dozen eggs, so that the cost of materi
al would not exceed one cent a dozen.
Pure water that has been boiled and
then cooled should be used. To each
fifteen to twenty quarts of water one
(mart of water-glass should be added.
The solution should be prepared, plac
ed in the jar or other suitable vessel,
and the fresh eggs added f) om time to
time until the jar is filled, but be sure
that there is two inches of the solu
tion covering the eggs. The eggs
should not be washed before packing,
for washing injures the keeping qual
ity." Put out by the Extension Di
vision of the Hawaii Experiment Sta
tion. WILL CONDEMN NEW STREET
The supervisors yesterday instruct
ed the county attorney in conjunction
with the county engineer to proceed
to condemn a right of way for an ex
tension of Wells Avenue between
Church street and High street, past
the Wailuku armory.
GORIZIA FALLS TO
ITALIAN STRATEGY
Austrians Lose Important Base And Much Equip
ment Trieste Now Seriously Threatened
All Italy Jubilant Crisis In Big
Railroad Strike Impends
ROME, August 10 Following the capture of Gorizia yesterday,
Italians are now threatening Trieste, the main objective of campaign
on this front. Army of Duke of Aosta, which did signalwork preparing way
for present victor', is now pursuing Austrians on the left bank of the
lsonzo river. Cavalry is being thrown out to drive in Austrian advance"
posts, and Italian infantry is following at rapid rate. This advance
threatens Trieste, which is reported to be preparing for defensive near
city. Gorizia was virtually undamaged by bombardment, as Italians did
not use their heavy artillery, but employed strategy to take city. Be
fore leaving, Austrians made attempt to destroy their large store" of
military supplies, setting fire to storehouses, but Italians were able to
extinguish flames, and little damage was done. 12,000 Austrians were
taken prisoners. Italy is wild with rejoicing over this signal victory.
PETROGRAD, August 10 Russians captured railway station on
Stanislau river line, driving Teutons away from important field base
which helped them hold Nadvorna. Russians also reached the Monas
tirzyska Nizinoff railway at mouth of Zlota Lipa.
PARIS, August 10 Progress made by French troops today in
heavy fighting north of Hemwood.
BREST, August 10 More Russians landed in France.
LONDON, August 10 British steamer Newburn sunk in war
one.
WASHINGTON, August 10 Congress may be kept in session by
republican minority. Members insist that immigration bill be passed
before adjournment. Object to plans made by democrats for early
closing. Latter are anxious to get to their home states on or before
September,
HONOLULU, August 10 China trade is goal of nations after
great war. Japanese commissioners on way to Europe foresee complic
ations. Their government is preparing for future. Experts are investic
ating conditions in United States and Europe.
E. M, Newman, noted lecturer, says that Peking officials feel that
America is the only friend of China.
HONOLULU, August 11 Bond issue plan meets opposition.
Chamber of commerce and Ad Club committee fight proposal-at public
hearing. City Attorney Carden blocks part of scheme. Finds Honolu
lu may issue only $480,000 per year.
Palmer Woods has new water scheme. Would use Nuuanu dam
for irrigation only.
Mayor Lane joins chorus in warning all malihinis. Tells of need of
injection of facts in description of Hawaii. Tells of letters from would
be job holders. Other correspondents seek information on private mat
ters, mostly of matrimonial character.
CHARLESTON, W. Va., August 11 Reports of cloud burst tell
of havoc done. 5000 are homeless. Floods subside leaving trail of death
and ruin behind. Damage estimated at $5,000,000. Reported that at least
66 lives have been lost.
FARGO, N. D., August 11 Hughes again scores Wilson. De
nounces democratic waste. Is unceasing in his attacks upon inefficiency
of present administration.
WASHINGTON, August 11 Uncle Sam forwards kick to Britain.
State department acts on newspaper man's complaint.
SAN FRANCISCO, August 11 Korea Maru safe here. Former
Pacific Mail liner arrives through Panama canal and will be refitted for
'1 rans-Pacific service.
COPENHAGEN, August 11 Sale of West Indies passes first
reading in Danish chamber.
NEW YORK, August 11 Railroads will ask President Wilson to
block strikers. Declare they cannot meet, demands of workers under
present conditions. Next move in deadlock is anxiously awaited. Gov
ernment is doing all possible to avert threatened labor troubles.
PARIS, August 11 Russians now within gun range of Stanislau.
Force passage across the Ziota Lipa river and drive Teutons back. Big
guns busy at Somme front.
COLORADO SPRINGS,1 August 11 Suffragists may abandon
democrats. Leaders meet here to settle upon their campaign policy.
NEW YORK, August 11 Banbridge Colby refuses to follow
Roosevelt and will support Wilson.
Battleships Nevada and Pennsylvania are to be cquiped with four
anti-aircraft guns. Rest of Atlantic vessels may also be equipped with
modern weapons also.
HONOLULU, August 10 Another addition to Moana Hotel is
planned. Company is contemplating a huge additional hostelry on the
upper side of the Moana. Wants an apartment house for seasonal
business. A casino to be installed for entertainment of guests.
Y. M. C. A. branch for soldiers and sailors is planned. Ad club
aids in work for troops. S. A. McCarl will take charge of rooms when
opened in the fall.
Carnival program to eclipse past efforts. Tentative list of events
submitted 'to directors. Landing of Carnival king, floral parade, military
tournaments, are among the scheduled events.
Mainland demand for island-made ukuleles is so great that manu
factories here cannot fill orders.
WASHINGTON, August 10 Gompers attacks Hughes. Writes
letter reviewing the attitude of Mr. Hughes towards the labor question.
ST. PAUL, August 10 Hughes calls President Wilson inadequate.
In lengthy speech he gives proof of charges.
NEW YORK, August 10 Railroaders may call on President.
W ilson may be asked to exert influence to avert big strike.
HUNTINGTON, W. Va., August 10 One hundred persons be
lieved to have been drowned in Coal River and Cabin Creek mining
district of West Virginia by cloud burst. State militia called out by
governor and sent to give aid.
NEW YORK, August 10 Delaware paralysi bars. Health de
partment imposes quarantine against several adjoining states.
NEW LONDON, August 10 Submarine Bremen may land at
New London wharf. German company in Connecticut leases big ware
house in this port.
(Continued on Page Vive.)
i
