iyjpwyijipp
IF i'M AN 3 TA L EDI T I O N
IieJiger
NIGHT,
EXTRA
tumtmg
NIGHT
RYTDA
fVOL. H NO. 284
PHILADELPHIA FRIDAY, ATJGrTJST 11, 1910.
Corttmni, 1018, at ma rmuo Ltnn CourAift
PRICE ONE OJSNT
MAGISTKATE JOSEPH CALL
Whoso indictment ig recommended
by tho Grand Jury. The some
action toward Constable E. H.
Beaumont is urged.
JAMES ROBINSON
Superintendent of Police, who will
face a Polico Board of Inquiry if
the recommendations of the Grand
Jury are carried out.
ALLIES LAUNCH
LONG EXPECTED
BALKAN DRIVE
r
It-
Capture Doiran Station and
Adjacent Positions in -First
Blow
1 ,
IV.
'&;. m
.UttlUAl
BATTLE RAGING
S- LONDON, Aug. 11.
Indications that tho long-expected often-
.I..A nf iA1IIar In thn Tlallcnn.q mav hava
lifctpin wero contained In dispatches received
(there this afternoon.
t! By a sudden blow on the Doiran front, 38
' miles north of Salonlca, French troops have
; cipturcd the railway station at Doiran,
evacuated by the Allies when they retreated
i from Serbia last fall. An official statement
from the French War OfTlco carried this an-
. nounctment this afternoon.
: An Athens dispatch to the Central News
at about the same hour reported a- great
battle' raging on the Balkan front. The
Allies have occupied not drily tho Doiran
i station, but high ground adjacent, tho dls-
ttch eald.
Itofte British War Office thus far has
'f5K no announcement of the beginning
iHf ' great drive expected to sweep the
jinnies of the Central Empires out of Ser
bia. For several days advices from Ger
wn sources, however, have reported In
creasing anxiety at Berlin over rumors that
Una Allies' Balkan offensive was about to
Win wljlle the great triple offensive on
the western, eastern and Italian fronts are
lUnder way.
gTbe Allhn, Berlin reported, planned to
iqueeie the Austro-Germnns and Bulgara
b pressure on four front3 simultaneously,
loping at the came time to draw Rumania
Into the war against the Austro-Germans.
gNo Important fighting ha3 occurred on the
Balkan front since last December, when the
Anglo-French expeditionary forces under
General Sarrall, retired from southern Scr
Wa. under heavy pressure by superior forces
tfAuatro-Giirmans and Bulgars. Artillery
ngajemenU have taken place at several
pojnts, and the Bulgars on one occasion
crested the Greek border and occupied small
torts north cf Demirhlssar.
gThe fighting at Doiran, officially an.
jounced today, Is the most Important Bal
bn engagement since the Allied retreat.
Recent reports from Athens stated that
very large part of the Austro'-German
KopJ that defended the Balkan line has
CLUBMAN KILLED
IN FALL TO WALK,
SLEUTH'S THEORY
Crushed Body of Franken-
field Indicates LongDrop,
Says Doctor
TRY POLICE CHIEF ROBINSON,
RESTORE OUSTED "COPS" AND
QUARANTINE VICE, JURY URGE
"Intolerable Tenderloin Conditions"
Blamed on Superintendent Indict
ment of Magistrate Call, for
Connivance, Asked
Abolition of "Vice Squad" and Increase in Police Force
Recommended Reinstatement of Lieutenants
Stinger and Van Horn and Detective
Lee Favored
STORY TOLD BY WOMEN
Problems Still Unsolved
In Frankenfield Mystery
TTTAS ho attacked or did ho fall
from a second-story window?
If he fell from steps, as declared
by occupants of house, how could
feet bo near curb?
Wero blood stains found by police
men in house tracked in?
Why was there anxiety to wash
away blood stains?
Why was lawyer retained by Mrs.
SteigerAvald before her arrest?
Why did Mrs. Steigcrwnld deny
knowing Frankenfield and later ad
mit hovisited her house?
A post-mortem examination -will
be mado today by tho Coroner's
physician.
.Continued on Pare Two, Column On
As more evidence Is gathered by the de
tectives Investigating tho cause of the death
of Harry Frankenfield, Insurance broker,
of 1800 Diamond street, who was found
dying early yosterday morning In front of
a house at ICOjO Wallace street, the theory
that he was killed by a fall to the street
becomes stronger In the mlnda of the In
vestigators. The police say he may" have come to his
death In one of these three ways:
He may have been thrown or may
have fallen from the second-story win
dow of the house occupied by Mrs. May
Stelgerwald.
In a fight with some person a fight
In the hall .of the house he may have
been shoved out the door and down tho
steps against the foot scraper.
Or, as witnesses so far have said,
he may have lost his balance as he
was ringing the front door bell of the
house, falling down the steps against
the foot scraper.
Dr. Thomas A. Shallow, 2043 Walnut
street, the first physician called to examine
Frankenfield, said today that It was difficult
for him to believe that the man could have
received the Injuries he did In a fall down
42 Inches of steps.
"It might be possible for a man to re
ceive such Injuries," said the physician,
"but ordinarily a greater fall than that
Quarantlno of vice resorts as tho most
effective remedy, as opposed to segregation,
Is upheld by the Grand Jury In Its present
ment covering three weeks' Investigation of
conditions prevailing In this city. The pre
sentment was handed to Judge Rogers this
afternoon.
Indictment of Magistrate Joseph Call for
accoptlng "icraw ball" for tho release of
women taken In polico nitds also Is sug
gested, together with Indictment of Con
stablo Beaumont, of Call's ofllce. In the
same connection.
Conditions In theSlxth and Eighth police
polico districts the Tonderloln aro pro
nounced Intolorablo, but the district com
mandors, now under suspension, are not held
to blame. Their reinstatement Is requested
and the responsibility for conditions Is vir
tually placed upon tho shoudcra of Police
Superintendent Boblnson. Trial of the. lat
ter by a police board of Inquiry .Is asked.
ASKS ROBINSON'S TRIAL.
How Robinson Is to be tried tho Grand
Jury does not specify. Tho rules of tho
Bureau of Polico provide that an accused
member of tho department be arraigned
beforo a court composed of his superiors.
Robinson has no superior or even equal in
tho grades composing tho bureau.
The Bureau of 'Police generally Is given
a, clean bill of health, the jury declaring
that "the Bureau of Police Is comparatively
free from pernicious evil." Tho Jury advo
cates an Increase of 500 men to tho present
force, with a general Increase of pay
throughout the department.
Segregation of disorderly houses Is re
garded by the Jurors as affording no satis
factory solution to the question under con
sideration. Contrary to the advance rumors
of Its Intention, the report sets forth that
the Jury looks upon tho vice quarantine as
at present maintained the best remedy
thus far offered to check the evil. r
Recommendations Made
by the Grand Jury
1.
Continued en ran Two, Column Four
SAVED FROM CHAIR '
AS SLAYER CONFESSES
paries S. Stielow Weeps at
LSing Sing as Warden Tells
Him of Freedom
BAKERS HERE TO FIGHT
FOR 10-CENT LOAVES
Cost of Flour Doubled and
Other Causes Demand In
crease Decision Is National
.CteSININfJ. N. Y.. Aue. 11. Emotion al-
aostjovercame Charles S. Stielow, who has
Or.10 mnntha vraKa In tna lUath hnlun at
jfjr sing Prison for his execution as he 1
geneo, to Warden Thomas Mott Osborne
iplaln that ha had been cleared of the
ff8 of murdering Charles Phelps and
"w.Wolcott, his housekeeper, by the Con
xion of Irving King, a peddler, and that
might be free again inside a month.
Not (111 the warden remarked, "Charlie, In
lfiwnth I'll take dinner with you on your
fjj and then your wife, and children will
ijlier," ,j1(j tll9 condemned man appear to
!e, that the shadow of death had been
ftfd from hlra.
Suddenly tears gathered In Wa eyea and
reraowea as sobbing he leaned and tried
sSnP the warden's knees with nil arms.
Siea with emotion he was unable to
Philps and Miss Wolcott were found shot
it vth ln the Phelps country home In
! York,
T this crime Charles S. Stielow wan
m and condemned to death. Four dates
y been set for his execution. Upon'every
Sj?ln. the condemned, man was saved by
ffi?X of execution. The last stay was
wed only a few days ago.
- made his confession in the presence
iwn9 witnesses, Including county officials
lawyers, and was complete in every de
Jge H was wade in the Jail at Little
Sag had been suspected of the double
, "" ior ome t"11- His arrest followed
Sg ' Investigation. Tho story told by
?wJHM!" UthU:
MLe Sunday of tn murder he went
i? of My. Phelps.
uu mght he arose, and attempted to
lK.' boas H was dlsowered and
f Mating followed.
A fight for 10-cent bread will probably
be made ln this city by members of the
National Association of Master Bakers, fol
lowing the convention now In progress at
Salt Lake City, About 12 of the 1000 or
more bakers In Philadelphia tare members
of that body. The local members are large
producers, however? and It was estimated
that they, supply about 40 per cent of the
bread dally consumed In the' city.
It was explained by a baker this morning
that the cost of flour and other ingre
dients used In making bread have increased
to such an extent that the movement Is
really necessity. A 10-cent loaf can be
Just twice the weight of the present 6-cent
loaf. The cost of labor, such as mixing,
baking and delivery, are the same as on a
smaller loaf and as on a 10-cent loaf.
One baker said that it did not require
any more labor, such as mixing, baking and
delivery, to supply the consumer with a
larger loaf than with the five-cent bread.
He contended that a 10-cent loaf would con
tain more bread than two small loavea by
reason of the great reduction of crust.
Colonel Louis J- Koib, a member of the
National Association of Master Bakers, and
head of the Kolb Baking Company, said this
morning: "Tha prlco of flour has been
doubled during tbe last year and that of
shortenings was increased' about 60 per
cent The 5-cent loaf is an economic loss.
I have not planned any increase in the
price of bread at tbe present time. If bread
is raised to 10 cents it tnlght prove to be
only a temporary condition,"
WOULD ABOLISH VICE SQUAD.
The Grand Jury recommended that the
Vice squad be abolished and that its mem
bers be amalagamated with the Detective
Bureau. The Grand Jury said that either
Captain Kenny or Superintendent Robinson
Is responsible for tho abominable conditions
In the Sixth and Eighth Districts. It sug
gests that a Trial Board determine Robin
Bon's responsibility because the Jury men
think they have not learned the whole
truth.
Among the reasons for disorderly houses
the Jury named the profitable rentals. They
also-blamed derelictions of the Individual
policemen and followod these reasons with
political Interference and lelnency of the
courts.
AS TO BRIBERY CHARGES.
The jury recommends that Director WI1
son Investigate thoroughly the cases of
Policemen William Tyson, John E. Bar
rett, Jacob Marbet and Michael Kearse,
charged with accepting protection money
from women; also, that he review care-
fully the cases of Policeman Charles
O'Draln and Thomas NIlBon for their con
nection with tho Haverford Club, 612 Arch
street.
The jury also recommended that Inves
tlgatlon be made Into the discharge with
out hearing of former State Representa
tive William need and four other men who
were taken In one of the raided houses.
Conditions In the Sixth and Eighth dis
tricts were described as intolerable.
The Grand Jury In Its finding that quar
antine was the most effective remedy for
dealing with vice complained that inefficient
policemen often rendered such quarantine
Ineffective.
The Jurymen denounced the system of
fining Inmat'es of disorderly houses. They
said that these women simply looked on the
fine as license money, and they suggested
that the whole fine system be done away
with, because fines were so much "blood
money" for the State or the politicians and
the lawyers who prey on these women. They
recommended a prison term Instead of the
fining system.'
They also urget that men who prey upon
such womerrbe excluded from all hearings.
They said that the testimony did little
to prove that the police' were linked with
politics, but added that, nevertheless, they
believed them to be so interlinked, and sug
gested that the Mayor take steps to divorce
the police from politics.
The report was presented to Judge Rogers
In Quarter Sessions Court today by Henry
3. Barnard, foreman of the jury. The
voluminous presentment; was completed
only a short time prior to its submission
to tho court It was signed by all of the
jurors who had sat throughout the three
weeks' proceedings.
Judge Rogers made no comment upon tbe
report itself, hut thanked the jurors for
their services and the extensive investiga
tion they had given to Uw vice situation
and then dismissed them. He said the sug
gestions contained In the presentment would
be turned oyer to the proper authorities for
their action. Judge Rogers subsequently
That the quarantine in the
Tonderloln is the moat ef
fective method for dealing with vice,
except in cases where individual po
licemen aro inefficient.
2 That Superintendent of Po-
lice James Robinson be tried
beforo tho Police Board of Inquiry.
3 That Police Lieutenants Jo-
seph Van Horn, of the
Tenth nnd Buttonwood Btrcets sta
tion, and George Stinger, of tho
Eleventh and Winter streets sta
tion, and Charles Lee, head of tho
Vice Squad, all now under suspen
sion, bo reinstated.
4 That Magistrate Call, and
his constable, Edward Beau
mont, be indicted in connection with
straw-bail cases growing out of the
recent raid.
Thnt 500 more policemen be
added to the force.
That the Bureau of Polico
is "comnarativclv free from
pernicious evil."
That cadets be excluded
from all magistrates' hear-
5.
6.
7.
ings.
8.
mntcs
THat n prison term instead
of fines be imposed on in
of disorderly houses and
women accused of disorderly con
duct on tho streets.
9 That tho Vice Squad b6
abolished and its personnel
bo amalgamated with tho detective
force, o
QUICK NEWS
NATIONAL LEAGUE
PITTSBURGH O OOOOOOI 1-2113
BOSTON.lstg O OOOOOOOI-I 43
Miller and Fisher; Barnes and Blackburn.
CHICAGO, 1st B....0 O 1 O O O O
BROOKLYN O O 1 O O O O
Hendrlx and Archer; Dell nnd Myers.
ST. LOUIS, 1st E....0 2000000 1-3 82
NEW VOSi 2 2000001 x- 5 62
IfiL . Meadows and Gonzales; Audcrsou and Ilaridcu.
i
FORT ERIE RACING RESULTS
First rncc, purse $600, maiden 2-yenr-olds, G furlongs Spring
Wheat, 100, Wolstcnholm, $38.40, $20.80, $3.20, won; Qaladress, '
08, Callahan, $3.50, $2.30, second; Foxtrot, 100, Robinson, $2.30,
third. Time, 1.15 2-5.
DEMOCRATS PLACE 10 PER CENT TAX ON MUNITIONS
WASHINGTON, Aug. 11. Democratic members of thp Senate
Finance Committee todny fixed a flat rate tax of 10 per cent on tho
net products of all firms making munitions or .their component parts.
GREEKS RAISE FUNDS TO BACK VENIZELOS
LONDON, Aug. 11. Greek citizens in Allied countries have be
gun collecting a fund for the support of tho Venlzelos party in Greece,
which favors war on tho sido of tho Allies. It is expected that
$30,000 will bo raised in London alone.
SIX MORE DEATHS,
13 NEW VICTIMS
OF BABY PLAGUE
Two New Cases Result in
Six-Block Quarantine
in Camden
TWO ADULTS STRICKEN
Statistics of Spread
of Infantile Paralysis
New cases in Philadelphia.... 18
Total cases in Philadelphia. ... 145
Deaths in Philadelphia 6
Total deaths in Philadelphia.. 34
New cases in New York 165
Deaths in New York 31
New cases in Pennsylvania. . . 10
New cases in New Jersey 80
Exclusive of Philadelphia.
FOUR ALLIES' SHIPS SUNK
LONDON, Aug. 11. A dispatch to Lloyds' this afternoon re
ported the sinking of four ships, apparently by submarines. They
were the Italian steamship Snbastano, the sailing vessel Annette
Marie and the steamship Henri Elisa,. both French, also the ship
Robert. Tho British steamship Snn Bernardo was attacked hy a
German, submarine in the North Sea on Thursday. Tho crew of 30
took to the boats and were later picked up. The Germans put bombs
in tho vessel and she is believed to have been sunk.
U.S. PROBES ALLEGED BRITISH THEFT OF TRADE
WASHINGTON, Aug. 11. Charges that Great Britain hns been
actually stenling American trade by withholding cabled ordcrf? sent
from Russia to this country are being investigated by the State De
partment. Manufacturers allege that orders cabled from Russia have
been held up by British authorities and sometimes even turned over
to British firms, who in turn submitted bids to the Russian concerns.
State 'Department, officials regard the situation if proved as per
haps the most flagrant interference in American rights thus far.
Cautlaatil ea rare Two, Csliuua Tva
Six deaths and 13 new cases In Phila
delphia, while Camden reports two new
Instances of Infantile paralysis, are causing
health authorities of both cities considerable
anxiety, particularly in Philadelphia, as the
number of deaths Is greater for any single
day than at any time since the outbreak of
the epidemic.
In Camden, as tho result of the new
cases, six entire blocks have been placed
under rigid quarantine. From that area
no "one may Jeave even with a health cer
tificate. Tha quarantine extends from
Kalghn avenue to Lino street In Locust
street. The new cases are: Angelo Dlmerco,
20 months old, of 927 Locust street, and
Anthony Senedonegto, 16 months old, of
916 Locust street.
Health officers and Inspectors all over
the State are seeking Michael Malagleri, who
early this morning broke through the quar
antine established at 68 Church street, where
there Is a case of paralysis. Malagleri was
employed as a cement worker on a school-
house in ulbbstown, N. J. When found he
will be prosecuted for violating the quar
antine, according to Dr. A. A. Cairns, chief
medical Inspector.
TO PUNISH EVADERS.
Deputy Attorney General Kun, In an
oplnon to the State Health Department, has
ruled that "any attempt to evade the quar
antine against infantile paralysis is an act
against the safety and well-being of the
public, and offenders will be summarily
dealt with.
Camden at noon today placed in effect
its quarantine against Pennsylvania chil
dren. The ferries will be guarded by Cam
den physicians, who have volunteered. At
Pitman, N. J-, motion pictures are to be
used in the fight against paralysis.
DIXON ANGRY AT TRENTON.
Trenton's method of enforcing the quar
antine against Philadelphia children has
roused the Ire of Dr. Samuel O. Dixon,
State Commissioner of Health. Yesterday
a little girl with a certificate showing she
was free from the disease, according to
Doctor Dlxoa, was not permitted to enter
J
RAILROADS IN MEXICO TO BE RESTORED TO OWNERS.
MEXICO CITY, Aug. 11. The Carrnnr-a Government having virtually com
pleted the pacification of Mexico, plans are being made for tho return of the Mexican
rallwayn which are no longer needed for military purposes. It is rumored that J. M.
Galbrnlth will take over tho management of the National Hallways, Alberto Panl
having refused. Samuel Felton, It is reported, will become President, and there
will bo a complete reorganization under Government auspices. The Mexico Railway,
operating between Vera Cruz ami Mexico City, will nlso be returned to its owners.
BAKERS WANT CONGRESS TO PLAN EMBARGO ON WHEAT
WASHINGTON, Au&. 11. Declaring that, unless Congress acts, the price of
bread surely will advance beyond the reach of the average consumer, the National
Association of the Master Bakers today petitioned the House and Senate to impose
an embargo on wheat.
BRITAIN PREPARING TO RUN TUNNEL TO FRANCE
WASHINGTON, Aug. II. Consular reports to tho Department of Commerce
this afternoon from London stated that the proposed project of building a tunnel
between Great Britain and France Is fast assuming definite form. According to
the reports, the belief prevails In London that work will be begun on the project
within a very short time. The preliminary plans call for the building of two tubes
between the Island and France.
CONFEREES FAIL TO AGREE ON NAVY BILL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 11. The conference report on the naval appropriation bill,
the final Administration preparedness measure, was submitted to the House this
afternoon by Representative Padgett, chairman of the House conferees. The report
showed that the conferees were unable to reconcile the differences between the two
houses on the building program and on the reorganization of the navy personnel.
Representative Padgett said he would call up the report next Tuesday. It is ex
pected that the Senate program for the construction of eight capital ships and the
Senate personnel proposals will be agreed to.
BRITISH EXPRESS CARRYING AMERICANS WRECKED
LONDON, Aug. 11. The Northeastern express, carrying American boat passen
gers to Liverpool, was wrecked today, when it ran into a string of empty coaches
at Bletchly. A soldier was killed and the engineer and fireman injured.
GASOLINE PRICE CUT BY ATLANTIC REFINING COMPANY
PITTSBURGH, Aug. II. The Atlantic Refining Company has reduced the price
of gasoline 1 cent a gallon.
Continued oo Pas X . Column gx
NEW YORK CITY RECTOR CALLED TO OLD SWEDE'S
The Rev. Percy Robblns Stockman, rector of St. Martha's Mission, New York
city, has been called to the rectorship of Old Swede's Church, Swanson atreet below
Christian, tho oldest church in the city, to succeed the Rev. Snyder B, Slmea, who
died a year ago. He will be Installed the second Sunday in September. Mr. Stock
man Is a Phlladelphlan and was graduated from tha University of Pennsylvania
and of the divinity school of the Protestant Episcopal Church, In this city,
STRIKING MOTORMEN WILL BE PAID OFF TODAY
Motormen who left their work Monday when a strike was called by Division 477,
Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway Employes of America,
will be paid off today and then discharged from the employ of the Rapid Transit
Company. Conductors were discharged yesterday, which was payday for the men
who collect the fare.
RUSSIANS NEAR
HALICZ IN DASH
WEST OF LIPA
1
Seal Fate of Stanislau by;
Surprise Attack Far
ther North
FLANKING FACES FOES
Austrians Preparing to Make
Stand Against Italians on
New Lino
Tho groat battlo for tho possession
of Lomborg is rapidly approaching its
decisivo stago. Today's reports from
Petrograd indicato thnt, contrary to ex
pectations during the early days of tho
great Slav offensive, tho main Russian
blow against tho Galicinn capital is to
bo struck from tho southwest. Tho
final engagement will probably bo
fought nt IJaliczt toward which point
part of tho forces of General Lctchit
sky nro marching. By a sudden nd
vanco westward from tho Zlota Llpa
Rivor, which they, crossed in a dash
that took tho Austrians entirely by
surprise, part of Lctchitsky's forces
havo advanced to within 10 miles from
Halicz, which is north of Stanislau and
58 mile3 southeast of Lemberg. Tho
unexpected drive on Halicz aiong tho
north bank of the Dniester, .therefore,
not only seals tho fate of Stanislau,
but puts tho Austrian army defending
both Stanislau and Halicz in a pro
carious position, from which it can ox
tricato itself only by defeating tho
Russians or retreating quickly boyond
Lemberg, thus abandoning the city to
the forces of the Czar. The official re
port from Petrograd states that tho
Russians ore only two miles irom
Stanislau. Bridges have already been
thrown across the Bistritza River, pre
paratory to entrance into the city.
On' the Sereth front, which is in
North Galicia, the army of General
Sakharoff is pushing its advance on
Lemberg westward. The Russians havo
captured several villages and occupied
a commanding ridge on tho right bank
of tho river.
Thus are the two arms of tho Rus
sian "nut-drackor" in Galicia, both of
which are about the same distance from
Lemberg, closing in upon the army of
General Count von Bothmer.
With Gorizia firmly jn their hands,
the Italian armies of the Duke of Aosta
nre attacking the Austrian lines on a
front of 30 miles in their drive on
Trieste.
Terrific fighting is being waged on
the Alpine summits, which rise out
of the Isonzo Valley. The Italians aro
now in complete control of the four
crests of Monto San Michele, and aro
fighting to gain a foothold in the Do
berdo basin, a part 'of the vast Carso
Plateau, across which their advance to
Trieste must be mnde.
French attacks on the Sommo and
Verdun fronts have won more ground,
according to the Paris War Ofllce.
North of Bazentin-le-Petit and in tho
district of Pozieres the British havo
pressed the Germans back. A deter
mined Teuton counter-attack was re
pulsed with bloody losses.
RUSSIANS CROSS DNIESTER
IN 3IARCII ON HALICZ; READY
TO ENTER STANISLAU CITY
PETROGRAD, Aug. 1J.
Striking westward with amazing rapidity
the right wing of General Lctchitsky's army
has reached the Dniester River south of
Marlampol, which is only 10 miles from the
Important fortified town of Halicz, It was"
officially announced today.
News of this Important success tempo
rarily overshadowed the advance against
the city of Stanislau, south of Halicz, the
fall of which is now regarded as a matter
of but a few hours. The War Office an
nounced that bridges are being thrown
across the Bistritza River three miles east
of Stanislau preparatory to an advance on
the city, and also reported fresh victories
on the South River, 00 miles east of Lem
berg, where several villages and woods
were, captured.
The town of Halicz, lying" at the railway
crossing of the Dniester, and but 68 miles
southeast of' Lemberg, has been described
as the key to any operation against the
Galiclan capital from the southwest It
was eipected that Gneral Letchltzky would
first take Stanislau and then move north
ward against Halicz. Austrians were pre
pared for a moat stubborn resistance at the
Haltcs bridgehead, where they expected to
block the crossing of the Dniester and a
further advance by the Czar's troopa
against Lemberg.
Letchltsky evidently took the enemy by
complete surprise. Throwing a force across,
tha Zlota Llpa River northeast of Stanislau.
Continue J oo Fate Two, Column Oat
q?HE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicitiity-m
Cloudy and unsettled tonight and ShU
urday, wih jtrobally some light rainf
slightly warmer tonight; light pnndt
mostly southeast.
KOTO (OF PAJT,
Sua rbws 551 -m.lMos rUw. . . fJU a,ea.
Boa ti 7;3 p.m.lJlwa wuttu.lOUD p.m.
DELMVABU IUVKB TIDE CUAKOKS.
, CHBSTNPT STB&Ifr,
Iw water... 3a.m.lw wtr.. sTp,,
HUA wtw--Uas a.ia.lB!sk wt.. ....
si i iff! .n 1 iai ifWTW4Tt
1
