Ha skin's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
66th YEAR
volumebfl
n l'm in: u 223
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1916. ?TEN PAGES.
wkatiiku
pai;k. 5
?UNSETTLED
"Seen on the Side"
? ??
A T.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
PRICE, TWO CENTS,
DISASTER GROWS !
AS WATER RECEDES
Scenes of Absolute Desolation
Found as Relief Parties
Penetrate Valleys.
COUNT OF DEAD NOW IS 66
Mood Comes So Quickly People
Have No Time to
Escape.
C11A RLKSTOX. W. VA., Aupust 10.?
Slxjy-alx persons are known to have J
lost thnlr lives In the floor! which swept
the Wont Virginia, mountains yesterday,
rendering 10,000 persons homeless an<l
causing a property loss estimated at
15.000,000. Reports were still mcaijer
to-night, owing to interrupted wire and
rill communication, hut the authori
ties express' (1 the belief that 'he death i
toll might reach 100.
The national Red Cross this after-I
noon offered aid to the flood sufferers, j
but the local and State authorities re
plied that they believed the situation
? ould be ?successfully handle! without
out Hide assistance. Two companies of
?he Second Regiment. West Virginia
National Guard, are already in the
flood district with teris :n.d provisions.
The announi > m<>nt made this
afternoon that ?11 ?' ? Intended
for flood sufferer i.e handled;
free of charge I.;. ,lv entering!
the devastated ?it11 i? t -
MXTF.KN I'KIISONS known
TO Hi: III". \l) at KMItN DALE !
Reports to-nluht Indicated that the
loss of life was at Kerndale,
where sixteen persons are known to
be d? ad. The number of dead at. other
villages and mining "Settlements fol- j
lows:
Rskdale, . United. .*. Miami, 8;
Dawes, 2: Dry Branch. 3; Holly; 11;
S ; Oa k le v, 7, I-eewool. \ Arnic, i
! and Cherokee. 2
Many bodies are believed to have
been washed down the streams towards i
the Ohio River, and probably never Willi
be recovered.
The excursion train, carrying 300'
Suri'i.iv f. hool pi. niekers, which waH
i
??.?larooned between two reeks with i
washouts en either side arrived at St.
Albans to-tsirht. after the passengers
lad spirit twenty-four hours i n the:
day coaches without food. f >n the
Cabin Creek bran h of the Chesapeake j
ai d Ohio Railroad another passenger
t'.iii: 1 iefin it- side with no tracks]
>i-ar it. All tin' ji..M eiu.ei s escaped
s fely.
i-' in hundred ><iuare miles weie de
* -;??.! by the flood. Kighteen miles <?'
t.a'k on the Chesapeake and Ohio
K.tiiroad practically have been demol
ished. Kverj bridge has been swept
.iW.tv and the roadbed for n. le wa I
<? ;t One tunnel was washed full of
l-.ris* Railroad of!lri;>! declare
?!?. s will l.e required to rebuild the
fait! line to Cabin ("reek
Cabin Creek, whose flood waters tore
through Its little mountain valley yes
terday and carried with them more :
than threescore lives and millions ?>'
dollars' worth of property, to-dav re
turned to its narrow bed Rut for six
teen miles from Ronda. where the creek
empties Into the Kanawha River, there
stretched a scene of absolute desola- j
turn. which was duplicated along every
little branch com inn down out of the I
hills.
The flood ? ame upon the people early
Wednesday morning W A Smith, an
Insurance broker, of Cincinnati, who
was in the district, declared that water
rolled down the narrow valley, foam
crested, and from his point of vintage
on an engine at Kskdale. where he and
% others had taken refuge, he saw the
roundhouse til! with ten feet of water
in less than half an hour, while the
flood stretched front hill to hill across;
the valley.
MANY UHOWN IIFFOHF.
TIIKY CAN UK At II HII.I.S]
Houses \Vero swept from their foun- j
dations. and women and children bur- |
riedly leaving their homes were in |
home instances drowned before they
could reach the hills. The flood came I
In contact with the carbide supply of j
a moving-picture theater at Fskdale i
and it exploded, blowing the place to i
pieces, while loaded coal cars were j
jammed one against the other in in- |
describable confusion. The Cabin |
Creek Coal Company lost 21f> cars of
coal at Crane Fork, the cars and coal
being washed away, while fifteen feet
of mud and sand was deposited in their
place. A street carnival company,
showing at He Sota, lost all of its
equipment and animals.
These and similar accidents by the
dozen were reported late to-day when
couriers from rescue parties, penetrat
ing the valley, returned with pressing
appeals for help. Fully 10,000 persons
nere said to be homeless, the majority
of theln without food and clothing.
Kvery store in the Cabin Creek Valley
f..>onis to have been washed away and j
lis conten'.s destroyed.
<k I VT15 THOOI'S IMItKCT
WO UK OK 11 ft M HI"
Karly in the day the First Battalion
of the Second West Virginia Infantry
8,i out from Its camp near here for
tbe valley, and by noon Major Rirlc
notir had established headquarters at
Honda, four miles from Cabin Creek
Junction, from which to direct, relief
measures. The men took with them
tents, 2,500 travel rations and large
quantities of other supplies, and more
were forwarded to them later in tho
day.
All the mules from tho machine-gun
company were taken, as tho railroads
In the valley will be out of commis
sion for days.
Other relief forccs were set in mo
tion by oil, mining and railroad com
panies whose property had suffered
great damage and whose employees
made up the sufferers. Dr. S. I,. Jep
8on. commissioner of health of West
'Virginia, Bent a force of sanitary en
gineers Into the district with instruc
(Continued on Second PageT)
S/lftfc' ph-) c . [ ?
Submarine Bremen
Is Expected To-day
.\t)IIFO I,It, VA.| A iik u*t lO.?From
Ueriiinii MiuriTN, known (o lie cloMcly
nMucliilcd with Ihr Kimtrni For
warding Compiiny. ??f Halt Imore, a
report It current licrc to-night llint
tlie Cirrmiin Milium rltic mercliiiiit
iiiiin llrcmen Is expected to arrive
sit tlir Virginia riipm curly to-mor
row morning, certainly wltliln the
next hventr-fuur hourn. 'Mir Ilrc
fnciit according to the report nllont.
In merely 'waiting '? favorable op
portu nlty to nII|, |tlaM? the allied
cnilhrrn.
To-night the went her In threat
ening mid cloudy. Wot f?KH hl|ve
enveloped the count for two morn
Ingx, in nking condition* Idriil for
?nfely bringing tlie llremcn into the
lin jr.
i PROGRESS IS MADE
B? FEDERAL MEDMTORS
Apparent Deadlock Reached Between
Railroad Rrothertioods anrl
Their Employers.
I'MO.VS STAND |JV DEMANDS
Indications Are That President Will
lie Called I pon as Final Resort to
Avert Strike on Country's CI rent
'I ransportation Systems.
XICW VOJtK. August 10.?-President
Wilson will l,e called upon to take
a hand in the settlement of the differ
ence,, between the f?,Ir rnMroad
brotherhoods and their employers, uti
les* an apparent deadlock In the ne
gotiations which developed to-day can
he broken, it was indicated here to
night by representatives of both fac
tions.
After it had heatii the contentions of
the workers and later those of the rail
rortd managers, the United States Hoard
of Mediation-and Conciliation was un
decided to-nlfiht as to whet, it would
again meet with representatives of
oither side. Martin A. Knapp, one of
the Federal mediators, when asked
whether there had been any change in
the situation since the board began its
work, replied:
"There is a deadlock nn the fare of
it. Whether we can change it lies Iti
the bosom of the future ."
.NOT I.N CI I.II >11 TV ft ;A TIM V
WITII I'HKSIDRXT WILSON
Mr. Knapp said the. hoard had pot
been In communication with President
Wilson since it arrived here. Asked
if "conditions already had come to the
point whe.re nn appeal would he made
to the President," Mr. Knnpp'sald he
could not discuss the matter. He added
that the board wrfttld continue its
efforts to adjust the differences.
"We are goim; to consider to-ti^-h*
what the ncx-t step will be," he as
serted.
What concessions, if any. the rail
road managers offered to make to the
men could not be ascertained. The
mediators met the managers secretly
this afternoon, remaining in conference
with them more than three hours. Two
guards were stationed outside the
(???oms in a hotel where the meeting
was held.
The mediators earlier in the day
heard the side of the brotherhoods,
whose chief demand is for an eighte
hour working day and time and a half
for overtime. It was said the brother
hoods would remoln firm in this posi
tion.
A meetinf? of the brotberhocyls will
bo held to-iporrow morning, but the
mediators have notified them, It was
learned to-night, "that it is uncertain
whether the mediators would attend."
HARDING IS NAMED
He IleooiucN Head of Federal Ilc.ierve
lioiird. In Succession to
llnmllii.
WASHINGTON, August 10.?Presi
dent Wilson has designated William
P. G. .Harding as chairman of the Fed
eral reserve hoard for one year, suc
ceeding Charles S. Hamlin, who has
been chairman for two years and who
has been confirmed for a term of ten
more years on the board. Paul M.
Warburg has iieen designated as vice-"
chairman, taking the placer of Frederic J
A. Delano, who has been vice-chairman j
for two years.
The President's purpose in making a'
change in the chairmanship is-to follow
the policyvof tho Interstate Commerce
Commission and the Federal Trade
Commission In having a rotation in the
chairmanship each year. The designa
tions of chairman and vice-chairman
are for one year each,
Mr. Hamlin this afternoon took the
oath of office for his new term of ten
years.
DRYS ARE FOR HERRICK
Pledge Hln, Tliclr Support ntiil Thereby
Itevral Joke on I,literal
liPiidcm.
(Special to The Times-Dispatch.1
COLUMBUS, p.. August 10.?The Antl
Saloon League, through its superinten
dent, .Tames A. White, made the ofllclal
announcement to-night that it will
support Myron T. Herrlck. Republican
candidate for IT. s. Senator against
Senator Atleo Pomerene. The reason'
for the open Indorsement of Hprrick
Is. according to White, that Herrlck'
has promised to support the prohibition;
amendment how pending in Congress1
if elocted.
Whlto says thef pledge of Herrlck to
national prohibition Is direct af?d per
sonal. lie did not say whether It wa?
In writing. The announcement reveals
a joke on the liberal leaders, who
supported Herrlck, giving him astound
ing majorities in the large centers
like Cleveland, Cincinnati, Columbus,
Toledo and Dayton, which are wot. It
never had been misnected Colonel Uer
ricls had prohibition inclinations.
Business in Senate Sandwiched
Between Assaults on and De
fenses of Administration.
REPUBLICANS FIND ISSUE
Democrats Congratulate Them on
Digging Up Durand
Incident.
WASHINGTON, August 10.?Issues
I of the national campaign crowded leg
j islation Into the luit k^round to-day In
the Senate, and virtually the only
i progress made with the pending ship
ping bill iv.'is the reading of the
amended measure, fandwli'hed between
Republican assaults on the Democratic
administration and Democratic de
fenses of party achievements.
The flood of partisan oratory was
started by Senator Towngend, Repub
lican, who made a speech supporting ?
the charge <"-f Charles K. Hughes that
10. Dana Durand was retired as Dtrec-i
tor of the ?,<?!:;-i':s at the beginning of1
the, present administration for political ,
reasons. Senator Townsend said that t
Secretary Redfield w.as mistaken in as- 1
sertitig that Mr Durand voluntarily!
resigned.
COXfJIt ATCI.ATK H101*t'111.If"A\S
O.V H.\ VIM; rot.M) A.V ISSUE j
j Several Democrats extended their j
j congratulations to the Republicans for j
i "haying at last found an issue" in the |
j Durand incident. Senator Hoke Smith I
added that his only criticism for the '
President and Secretary of Commerce [
was that they did not openly remove
Durand. because he was a man "utterly
| without e.xe' utlve capacity."
Senator I'enrose. Republican, joined
i in the discussion with an attack * on '
1 civil service administration and the |
"hypocrisy" of administration heads in
the Durand incident. Ignoring entire- j
ly the shipping bill. Senators on both
sides continued the political debate for
several hours. Senator Jones said
. Democratic Senators in first determin
| ing to postpone action on the child
labor bill had set the stage for Presi
dent Wilson to* make a sensational visit
to , the Capitol, and "In a theatrical
! appeal to Senators, have it go out to
the country that his insistence brought
; about passage of the hill."
Senator Lewis, the Democratic whip,
replylng'to Mr. Hughes's recent refer
I ence to President Wilson's "too proud
| to fight" speech, said that those who
admired the independent intelligence
of the Republican nominee deplored
that he had "surrendered to the yelp
and bark of 'Blanche, sweetheart and
j tray' in the refrain of 'Too proud to
'fight,' charging use of the expression
| as a confession of weakness or cow
! ardice on the part of the President,
j speaking for himself arid his country."
1IOPKI) I IK Will I.I) II10 SI'AHEI)
k.yniiirrio.\ ok kjnohance
"I had hoped." said the Illinois
'Senator, "that Judge Hughes might he
j saved from the exhibition of ignorance
! displayed by so many lesser, but
anxious, assailants of that which they
; did not understand. The expression,
; 'Too proud to fight,' used at I'hlla- j
I delphia by the President to an audi- |
ence of courageous. Christian people, |
was the adaptation of an old quotation
: from the classics?ancient as the Scrip- }
ture. Its meaning is known to be that i
; a brave people filled with the con- '
sciousness of their right and con
scious of their superior strength,
wero to/i proud to fight where a con- j
I cession <-tf what was right would bring |
justice to all. The President presumed
on the intelligence of his audience to
.understand."
The shipping bill finally was taken
up ajjain j,,yt before adjournment,
l when Senator Jones t\egan a speech on
{ It with the announcement that he
would not be offended at Senators
whoso business drew them from the
chamber. Most of. the members took
hitp at his word and left.
Senator Jones charged that the bill
with its $50,000,000 appropriation was ,
a violation of the economy promise of J
the Democratic platform of 1912. He ?
estimated that more than $750,01)0,000 j
in all would be needed to create the j
tonnage necessary to care for Ameri- i
can shipping. '
.MAY BE'ONLY TEMPORARY
I
lioiiNton Believes Belief for Print- j
Paper l-'nmine May lie
Found.
WASHINGTON*, August 10.?Secre- !
tary Houston in a letter to President |
Wilson made public to-day, tells ot |
Investigations made by the Forest Ser- j
vice into the print-paper shortage, and I
declares the experts of the service "aro j
inclined, to believe that the present I
.condition may be temporary."
He says a detailed study of sulphite i
Uulp manufacturing processes now is
well advanced and being pushed as
rapidly as the available resources per
mit.
"1 have been informed." writes the
secretary, "that before the war East
ern markets, v.hlcli aro the principal
paper markets, were fully supplied by
American mills and imports from sev.
eral foreign countries. Prices as a re
sult were "so low as to offer little in
ducement to new mills in llie West,
where our great timber reserves are
located. It is probable that conditions
after the war may be very similar to
those which existed before. These fac- '
tors have a direct bearing upon tho
suggestion regarding the construction
and operation of government plants.
Convention I* Defeated.
NASH VI DDIS, TIONN., August 10.?
Oflicial returns from seventy counties
In the State give a total vote casl last
.Thursday for (he constitutional con
vention of 30,178, with 4fi,.1S0 against
it. The State. Constitutional League,
having In charge the campaign for a
convention, to-night conceded the prop
osition had been defeated.
NO ALTERNATIVE i
LEFT TO DENMARK
Finance Minister Intimates Gov
ernment Must Yield to Wishes
of United States.
CANNOT UNVEIL ARGUMENTS
Bill for Sale of Danish West In
dies Has Its First
Reading.
COPENHAGEN" 'via London). August
10.?The first reading of the bill pro
viding for the sale of the Danish West
Indies to the l.'niied States was taken
up in the. Folkething. the lower house
of the Rigsdag. to-day, and will he
?continued to-morrow. It is believed
that the Folkething will adopt the
measure, owing to the fact that the
Radical and Socialistic parties, which
have a majority, favor the sale.
On the other hand, the Landsthing,
or upper house, it is thought, is op
posed to the measure, the Left party
having joined the Conservatives, who
desire to postpone consideration of the
matter.
During the discussion to-day there
was much excitement in the house,
and some women among the specta
tors shouted, "We will not sell."
WIM. APPEAL TO COf.VTRV
IF TIIKATV IS DEKEATED
Several of the ministers took part
in the debate, and the statement was
made in behalf of the government that
neither domestic nor economic consid
erations. but the international situa
tion. had brought tlie question to a
head, and that If the sale was re
jected the government would dissolve
the Itigsdag and appeal to the coun
try.
The Finance Minister, Edward Bran
dos, intimated that the government had
no alternative but to concede to the
desire of the United States.
The Foreign Minister, Erik de
Scavenlus. in opening the debate, rec
ommended ratification of the sale. He
denied that the government was forced
to sell, and added that the govern
ment had favored the sale because re
tention of the islands might possibly
involve Denmark in international com
plications.
J. C. Chrlstensen, ex-Premier and_
leader of the Left party, was unable
I to believe that there was any Interna
I tional danger, as such belief would be
an insult to the United StateB. In the
opinion of his party, nothing should
be decided during the war, or until
after the elections.
The leaders of the Radical and
Socialist parties said that their parties
favor the sale, but the Socialist leader
advocated the taking of a plebiscite
of the people of the islands, if that :
were possible.
I XAIILE TO I NVKII.
ITS CHIEF AlltiLMEXTS
The Minister of Finance emphasized |
the international considerations which
had precipitated the matter, and de
clared that those who opposed the sale
had an easy task, because the Rovern
ment was unable to unveil its chief
arguments in favor of the sale. What
should be done, for instance, if the
United States took possession of the
islands, he asked? Should Denmark
declare war against the United States
or appeal to Europe? The government
felt bound to submit to the desire of
a great state, but when a hurricane
wan blowfng, one. had to run before
It.
Ilo concluded by warning the house
that responsibility tor forcing elec
tions and for the postponement would
fall upon the Rlgsdag.
It would be a serious matter. Foreign
Minister de Scavenlus declared, if the
sale was postponed, and he emphasized
that with regard to foreign affairs the
Rigsdag, as at present constituted, was
fully competent to make a decision.
pi:m.iCATiox ok treaty
IS "OISIIONORA 111,10 ACT"
WASHINGTON', August 10.?Senator
Stone, chairman of the Foreign Rela
tions Committee, to-day denounced as
n. "dishonorable act" publication of the
terms of the treaty for purchase of
the Danish West Indies, and served
notice in the Senate that he would ask
for an investigation at the next execu
tive session as to how a printed copy
'got into possession of a Washington
and New York newspaper. Specific re
quests, he said, had been made by
President Wilson and the Danish gov
ernment that details of the treaty, sent
to the Senate on Tuesday, be held in
confidence until its promulgation
should be authorized.
"If any Senator disclosed this treaty
to the public, he did a dishonorable
act, and ought to he disciplined by the
Senate," said Senator Stone. "Every
Senator o.nd every patriotic citizen
can have but one opinion of a great
newspaper which, when it comes into
'possession of a confidential communi
cation of the President of the United
Spates, prints it to the detriment of j
the public interest."
* Accept mice Still \ waited.
WASHINGTON. August 10.?White
House officials still are awaiting an
acceptance from the third commis
sioner chosen by President Wil
son to serve with Secretary Lane
and Justice Brandeis as members
of the Joint commission which
will take tip for settlement the border
difficulties with Mexico. It wm said
to-night that until the third member
accepted, his name would be with
held.
Afik Embargo on \\ lienl.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. August
10.?The National Association of
Master Rakers, iu convention here to
day, forwarded a resolution to Presi
dent Wilson and to Congress asking
that an embargo be placed on the pres
ent wheat crop in order to prevent any
furtjier advanco in price.
REQUEST WRITTEN
BY SUBORDINATE
No Indication That Germany's
Last Lusitania Note Is
Acceptable.
STATUS OF CASE UNCHANGED
Department Explains That Send
ing of Letter to Embassy
Was Inadvertence.
WASHINGTON". August 10.?State
Department officials to-day explained
that the recent request of the German
embassy for permission to publish one
of Count von Bernstorff's notes on the
settlement of the Lusitania case was
an inadvertence. At first it was de
i n!ed that any such request had been
i made, but an investigation of the de
partment's flics disclosed a letter pre
pared by a subordinate official had
been signed etther by Secretary Lan
sing: or Acting Secretary Polk, and had
been transmitted to the German em
bassy.
I State Department officials declared
thai too much Importance bad been
attached to the request in German ofll
clal quarters, and that It was not, as
Interpreted, an indication that Ger
many's proposals were to be accepted
as satisfactory.
.NO INDICATION' THAT
NOTE IS SATISFACTORY
Both Secretary Lansing and Mr.
Polk to-day declared the requ?j^t was
no indication that the United States
was to accept Germany's representa
I tions as satisfactory: that the status
of the entire negotiations still was In
formal, and that none of the cor
respondence was of a nature for publi
cation at this time. The case Is re
garded as still unsettled because of
developments in submarine warfare
and the attitude of the Kuropean bel
ligcrents on the subject of armed mer
chantmen which arose last February
at the moment the Lusitania negotia
tions appeared to be on the point of
a satisfactory conclusion.
State Department officials to-day
broke their silence on the subject, and
asserted that what really happened
was this:
A subordinate official who assembles
the diplomatic correspondence periodi
cally, compiled and published as a
white book; wrote the German embassy
a letter, which Mr. Polk admitted was
signed either by himself or by Secre
tary Lansing, for permission to publish
one of the Lusitania notes submitted
by the German ambassador on Decem
ber <4. The embassy replied, giving
Its assent, with the suggestion that
the last note, dated February 16, be
published at the same time. This sug
gestion was not answered. On the
other hand, the suggestion that any of
the correspondence be published was
dropped at once on the decision of
higher officials that the circumstp/ices
which intervened to prevent a con
clusion of *the negotiations had not
been altered, and that the situation
still was In a condition which did not
warrant publication of any of the cor
respondence. The embassy was not
informed of the changed plan. Word
was sent to nerlln that the note would
be made public here.
IIEI.IEVED ACCEPTA NCK
OF NOTE IMPENDING
When information was received here
of the request to the embassy and its
reply, German embassy officials were
questioned, and they led Inquirers to
believe they considered the proceed
ing an indication of the impending ac
ceptance of the late German proposals.
In fact, it was stated that the diplo
matic relations between the United
States and Germany had never been
so satisfactory, from their point of
view, since they were first Imperiled
by submarine warfare.
This was supplemented further by
characterizing as absolutely unwar
ranted recent intimations from Berlin
that undersea warfare was about to
be resumed on its former scale. There
was the added impression that the
United States had been convinced, by |
the abandonment of the submarine
campaign since the sinking of the Sus
sex. of the sincerity of Germany's ac
ceptance of the principles laid down.
Upon that showing they believed the
State Department was about to pub
lish the Lusitania correspondence, with
an Implication, at least, of its accepta
bility. This view of the situation was
laid beforo Acting Secretary Polk on
Wednesday as having been gained In
German official circles. Mr. Polk's re
ply was a refusal even to discuss the
Lusitania case.
SKQl'KI. TO SITUATION
FI'ItNISIIED IIV DEPA IITllEXT
To-day, however, as a sequel to pub
lication of a statement of the situation
as II had been gained from German
sources and laid before the State De
partment for comment, the explanation
was made as in the foregoing.
The United States government. It
therefore appears, does not consider lite
matter settled In any sense, any more
than It was last February, when the
declaration of a new policy toward
armed merchant ships came up to halt
the negotiations after officials had ad
mitted informally that Count, von
Bernstorff's note met the. demands of
the American government, and offered
a satisfactory basis for negotiating a
settlement.
I.ong I.rap to Death.
NF.W YOUl>. August 10.?-From the
tower of the Singer Building, one of
the tallest In, the world, a man plunsed
to death to-day into the midst of a
Broadway lunch-hour crowd. He was
identified as Albert Goldman, sixty
years old.
The Mont Delightful Water Trip In Amcrlea
UP CHF.SAI'KAKK HAY TO IIA I.TIMOltK.
VOIIK rUVKK I.INK. New ami palatial
steamer*. A. restful and refreshing ovor
nlsht trip.
Bainbridge Colby
Is Out for Wilson
M-;\V VOIIK. Augu?t 1? rinln
hrldRr ('oll)j-, ?vh.< uoinlnutrd 'I'hro
dnre for flip itrr^lilfncy
nt Ihr l'rogrr*nl\r Xntlonul Con-/
vrntlnn In Chicago, lo-nlirlit dp
clnred himself in Tutor of the rc
rlrcllon of Preside nt Wilson. Mr.
C'olhv accepted an luvltntloii In ni'l
on ii Progressive committee which
In to hm r n eo-opemtl vp rein t ion
with thr Democratic CMmpiilK'i com
mit Ipp.
Mr. Collijr nnserted thut thr op
position to tlir President's rc-elec
| lion "prorprd* from tin unrr
geiirrnte Republicanism," of %vlilch
I'hnrlps K. Hughes In n "dpcojr anil
retriever."
If Mr. Hughes \vrrr rlrctrrt. >lr.
I Colby ad(l< !, "thr Old t>uiird" would
"rope him nnd tlr him. as they ilid
"hrn lie win Governor In Albany,
rrdncInK him to plain,tl\e futility."
REPUBLICANS BULK AT
EARLY ADJOURNMENT
They Kef use to Accept liCRislative
Program Submitted by Demo
cratic Steering Committee.
RESULT IS 1'UOUL.EMATICA L
May Ho Only Kuse of Minority to
Emphasize Fact That They Did
AH They Could to Got Vote in Cer
tain Measures.
WASHINGTON', August 10.?Senate
Republicans in confcrenco to-day de
clined to accept the legislative program
submitted yesterday by the Democratic
steering committee, with a view to ad
journment before September 1. Those
who were inclined to agree were out
voted by Senators demanding action
on the immigration bill.
| After two hours' deliberation on the
I Democratic proposal that no contested
! legislation be taken up except the ship
ping, revenue, workmen's compensation,
appropriation bills and conference re
| ports, the Republican conference
adopted'a resolution declaring:
"The power to control both legisla
i tlon and adjournment rests with Demo
cratic majority In Congress. The Re
publican Senators reserve the right to
support or oppose or request action
on any legislation now pending; and
they further urge that the Immigration
bill shall be taken up, considered and
acted on at this session."
Th<\ compromise program offered by
the Democrats yesterday would have
eliminated one measure in which many
progressive Republican Senators are
! much interested, the corrupt practices
| bill, and they are said to have insisted
in the conference to-day that they
i would be a party to no agroeinent
which would prevent them from de
manding a vote on that measure.
Senate Democrats already have de
termined in caucus that the immigra
tion bill should be made the unfinished
business when Congress meets In
December.
Whether the action of the Republi
cans to-day will prolong the session
beyond September 1 could not be fore
told. Democratic leaders said they
thought It would make no difference,
and was taken merely to emphasize the
fact that the Republicans did all In
their power to get a vote on the Immi
gration hill hefore the election.
TAX ON PROFITS PROPOSED
It la Seriously Considered liv Democrats
Ha Substitute for Revenue Krom
Munition*.
? WASHINGTON, August 10.?A net
profit excise tax on all manufacturers
selling goods to foreign governments,
as a substitute for the munition tax
In the pending revenue bill, is being
seriously considered by Democrats of
the Senato Finance Committee. It prob
ably will lie agreed on to-morrow for
submission to the Democratic, caucus,
which held to-night the first of a serif-?
of meetings to pass on committee
changes in the measure.
The plan under consideration is sub
stantially as follows:
That every person or corporation
engaged in the business of selling
goods, wares or merchandise of any
description to any foreign government,
or to the agents or representatives of
such foreign governments, shall pay
for each taxable year an excise tax
of 1 per cent on the net pro tits of
such business in excess of 10 per cent
of the capital invested and not in ex
cess of 20 per cent; 20 per cent on net
profits and not in excess of 30; 3 per
cent, increasing to 5 per cent, oil net
profits in excess of 50 per cent.
The committee to-day agreed to an
amendment which would authorize th>
President to take retaliatory action
against nations which prohibit the im
portation of any article "the product
of the soil or industry of the I'nlted
Stated and not injurious to health or
morals."
Another amendment agreed to would
admit all dyestuffs and coal-tar tnedi
olnal derivatives free of duty during
the Kurnpean war.
PROFITS FROM MUNITIONS
American l.ocomotlve t'oiiipinij Ilit*
Clenred .MO.7tllt.UOn During l*n*l
1 cnr.
SRW YORK, August 10?Munition
manufactures brought I he American
Locomotive Company for the , fijtcal
year a net profit of $ 11,7159,000, com
pared with a $1,500,000 deficit the
previous year, according to the com
pany's annual statement issued to-day
Cross earnings for the year were
$59,31 ti.OOt', compared with $9,303,000
the year before.
Unfilled locomotive orders on .Mine
30 totaled fl 0,370,300, against ?5.S38.000
a year earlier, and unfilled munition
contracts amounted to $41,642,000.
UP THEIR VICTORY
Strong Positions East of
Captured City of Go
rizia Taken.
STANISLAU NOW UNDER
RANGE OF RUSSIAN GUNS
Letchitzky Pushes Advance to
Within Six Miles of
Fortress.
HOTHMKIVS I'LIGHT OKSPKRATE
Inclement Weather Impedes Opera
tions of Belligerents on
Somme Front.
LONDON', August 10.?Although bad
weather is hampering: the British and
French maneuvers in the west, both
the Italians and the Russians are keep
ing up their strong offensive against
the Teutonic allies, respectively, in
Austria and Oalicia?and at last re
ports both had made additional im
portant grains.
On the Isonzo front the Italians have
continued to throw their forces across
the river and have fought their way
to the east of the captured city of
Gorizta. In addition, southwest of
Gori/.ia they have taken strong Aus
trian intrenchtnents near Monte San
i Michele and Monte .San Martiuo, and
I also occupied the town of Boschini.
giving them a freer hand for their
operations in the region of the Doberdo
plateau and southward toward the
Monfalcone sector. Large numbers of
prisoners were taken in the fighting.
HOW AI.'STlt? A KX 1*1.A IVS
i,oss ok (;oHl'/,iA
Vienna, in aumitting the loss of
| Oorizia, says the ovai-uation followed
the repulse of new Italian attacks on
the Doberdo plateau, and that th'e
straightening of the Austrian lines
made necessary by the operation was
carried out without molestation from
the Italians. Vienna also reports that
4,10,1 Italians have been taken prisoner
in the recent lighting in this region.
In Oalicln, in the sectors,of Stanls
lau and llalicz. the Russians have
driven their forces farther westward
: in their endeavor to capture the central
portion of the railroad running from
I Kolomea to Lemberg. Passing across
' the Monasterzvska - Xlznieoff railway,
! they have forded the Zlota Llpa River,
southeast of llalicz, and south of
Stanislau have captured the town of
if ryplin, on the Stanislau - Nadvorui
j railroad.
The Merlin official communication
1 says that along the. front of Archduke
I Charles Francis, in Oalicia, southwest
j of Welesnios and south of the Dnies
ter, new positions have been nccjtpjed
by the Teutonic allies, in accordance
I with previously arranged plans. Rus
sian attacks along the Strumen and
Stokhod Rivers were repulsed, wi.
sanguinary losses to the Russian
Another big battle has started near
Rrody, In Northern Oalicia.
IVCI.KMKXT W l2ATIIF.lt
ItljTAKDS OPKIiATIOXS
Owinq; to the Inclement weather in
France, military activity has been con
fined principally to bombardments,
which, were somewhat heavy north of
the Somme and in the Thiaumont work
sector, near Verdun. An attempted
German advance against the British
line south of Martinpulch was put
down by the tire of trench mortars and
machine puns, according to London.
Fierce fighting still is going on be
tween the Turks and Russians on the
Mush-Bltlis front, in Turkish Armenia.
A squadron of twenty-one Austrian
aeroplanes has dropped a large num
ber of bombs on Venice, causing nu
merous fires in the historic city.
I STAXISI.AIT IN HANtJR
OF II1" SSI A X (ir.VS
I'KTROGRAP. August 10, (via Lon
i don).?The town of Stanislau, in Ga
licia, is already within the range of
the Russian guns. The Russian Gen
oral Letchitzkv, losing no time in fol
lowing up his victory at Tysmienitsa,
has pushed westward along the rail
road and northwestward along the
wagon road, and in the latter direction
I has approached to within six miles of
I Stanislau. Simultaneously, he has an
j nouueed a drive acjross the Knropiee
j River and the formation of a new line
j of advance north of the Dniester.
I General Rothmer has heretofore en
| joyed more or less protection for his
i right on the Tarnopol position from
! the flooded Dniester The appearance
j of an offensive north of the Dniester,
' which already has carried the Rus*
! sians as far west as the crossing of
the railroad at Xiznioff, twenty miles
east of Stanislau. injects an entirely
new element into the situation. U'ith
Monasterz.vska seriously flanked. Gen
eral von Rothmer finds himself with
General Le^chitzky in the rear of his
advanced position on the Stripa and
in close touch The Austrian* are
vainly striving to stem this new ad
vniH-e l>v desperate counterattacks, in
which the troops engage in hand-to
haml encounters, but apparently with
tlt>- net result always favoring the
I{n ssia lis.
The counting General Letchltzkv's
prisoners ilurhit; the ten days' opera
tion* shows that he has taken upward
of tand it is expected that 10,0<>0
more men were put out of commis
sion This would bring the grand total
i ? f prisoners to General Rrussiloff's
credit since early In June to 102,000.
7.1.OTA I.I I*A CltOHSKO
l?Y RI S.HI A X FORCKS
PETROGRAD, August 10 (via Lon
don).? Russian troops have forded the
Zlota Lipa River, 1 it Oalicia, cast of
tStanuLiu, in tho coniii>Uivtton of their
. k? . v'iuj1
. . i > i ; :.? i ?ui
