1
ff.'
V OL. 58.
Jaspek, Indiana, Friday, AUGUST 11, 1916,
No. 47.
- ; s-1
BSMBMBBBBBBB cflBSBSBHBSBMBSBSHBflBHBSBSflBHBBBBSB -
CK
Cheap Transportation
Has
Built National Prosperity
V '
' :
1 . r - . ..
This ii & biff American freight engine. x
It if an achievement of AMERICAN INVENTIVE GENIUS.
It is built to HAUL LONG TRAINS loaded with the products of Amer
ica indtutry from the mints, farms, mills and factories to the markets
f the cotuitry, and to the naboard for shipment across the seas.
Ii all the wonderful history of American industrial progress NO
PIECE Or MACHINERY HAS PERFORMED SUCH SERVICE AS THE
BIG FREIGHT LOCOMOTIVE.
Freight is carried on our railroads at the LOWEST RATES IN THE
WORLD, while we pay our railroad workers the HIGHEST WAGES
IN THE WORLD. A TON OF FREIGHT IN THE EAST IS CARRIED
THREE MILES FOR THE COST OF A TWO-CENT POSTAGE STAMP.
Cheap transportation is one of the biggest builders of our prosperity.
The big freight engine with its enormous tractive power, the big steel
freight car with its great carrying capacity, and the heavy rails and
rock-ballasted roadbed to support the weight of the great engines and
heary trains these are the achievements of American industrial genius
which have given us low freight rates and broad markets, and have
enabled us to put our products in the markets of the world in competition
with foreign manufacturers.
But now come well-meaning but short-sighted leaders of America
railroad workers who say to the railroad managers :
"SHORTEN YOUR FBEIGHT TRAINS so that the enginemen and
trainmen can haul the tonnage faster over the roads, and so make as many
miles pay in eight hours at they now doin ten hours."
To the State Legislatures these same spokesmen- for the railroad work
er! say:
"Pan laws LIMITING THE LENGTH OF FREIGHT TRAINS wt
ppose big tonnage trains,"
To the Farmers, Manufacturers, and Merchants they say:
"With shorter freight trains railroads can move your products faster
to the markets.'
To the American Public that pays erery dollar of the railroad bill
(and 4i cents of every dollar paid or tramsportation is for wages),
they say:
"All that the railroads have to do to meet our demands for higher
wages is to shorten their trails, move the freight more rapidly and escape
the penalty of overtime wages."
What would be the rcsilt if taking these leaders of the 350,000 traim
employes at their word shtrten freight trains so that they can be run
at higher speed I
Increafcing the number of trains to handle the same tonnage woulä
call for more employes to do the same work, more tracks, larger yards aid
terminals, more supervision, and it is plain that "ttiere would be more con
gestion of traffic and greater hazards in irain operation. Hundreds of mil
lions a year would have to be spent by the railroads to increase their facili
ties and to operate the bigger plant.
IT WOULD BE AKIN TO USING HAND SHOVELS INSTEAD 01
FIVE-TON STEAM DREDGES TO DIG A PANAMA CANAL.
American railroads have spent enormous amounts in reducing grades,
cutting down mountains and filling up valleys; in increasing the hauliig
powei of locomotives and the carrying capacity of cars; in putting down
rock ballast and heavy rails all for one purpose, to lower the cost o
operation.
It is the public that has reaped the benefit in better and cheaper
railroad service.
If the railroads moved their 1-onnage in shorter strains at higher speeds,
the public, it is seen, would have to shoulchr a great burden in the in
creased cost of transportation.
Would the public get vaJue received for its money?
Of the tonnage on the roads est of Chreo SO per cent, consists of
coal coke, ores, stone and other mine pro;1 nets the mihiic it is of no
consequence whether this freight is a fe ! t - J . -;-r on the road, so
long as there is a continuous and regular Mr at. Af it ec::iiag to thp
markets.
FOUR-FIFTHS OF ALL THE T0N2TAGI tf'YVrrtt PT THE EAST
IS MADE UP OF LOW GRADE, SLOW Y.0Ti7Q VILLI: .IT. CARRIED
AT THE LOWEST RATES IN THE WOP.LJ)
To abandon the big freight trains on ATHfTnrr0 railroads in order to
increase the speed at which the bulk of the tv;.. nuvci, and thereby
eiable the train employes to earn higher wages ;n euerer hours, would
place a great burden on American industry vmoit ,r:mg the public
amy tangible benefit.
Tim, Not Spac.
Mrs. Frink was a trusting soul
tnd rarely questioned the opinions
of others about matters concerning
which they were ßupposed to be in
formed. One day she came homt
with ft new pair of shoes under her
arm- "Got them at Bride's," shs
explained, "and they're the beat I
tver bought you."
"What is so very good ab4at
them?" inquired her eon, for whom
the shoes wore intended.
"Why, the salesman eaid that you
culd walk farther in them than in
may, others vitheut getting tired,
and I sid that you couldn't walk
try far just uow on account of
your knee, you know, and he said
that he meant farther for-the same
distance. So 1 bought them, and
hare they are. Save the string,
pitlM."
ßhe did not notice the smile on
bar ton's fart a lie rul d the pack
aft, and ho w.i-s i. pa red the trouble
3 explaining. outh's Coup
A r. :if-'r: vtoit i
V.eit out no day
To u.i-U tx ft Wt
Of piaid.
lie rreasured aTdklrt
For a blc Uttltf tie?,
BANDS AND SOLOISTS AT INDIANA FAIR
f '
. : HÄf .1'; 11 Iitiir . v f
m r . - ' Hi lp . ' , :-
HE WANTED IT REALISTIC
I
iToIfteokf naw How a Man Ought to
aCI After Being Kicked
Downstairs.
Katharine Hoch, Soprano.
John C. Weber, Conductor.
John W. Dodd, Ballad Singer
Vira Ethelia, Soprano.
Some old aneedertee are told of
Count Tol3toi. Once, when one of
nil playa was being reheareed at ft
theater, he wai invifed"to be pres
ent. Hia religion did not prevent
him from accepting the invitation,
jbut he went to the theater as he
, went to hia work dreased as a peaa
1 ant It was a small company of the
jvery select, and the doorkeeper was
careful to admit only theprepor per
sons. tHien, therefolla shabby
looking peasant appeared in the en
trance hall he ordered the man in
peremptory times to get aß far away
as he could in as little time as pos
sible. Ab jhe peasant showed no
.immediate ign of obeying, the
doorkeeper seized him and threw
him down the steps.
"My name's Tolstoi' XYie peasant
said when he had picked himself up
again.
The doorkeeper, when he could
find words to .express hia amazement,
was profound In his apologies. There
happened to be in the play an inci-
''dent of a similar land, and at the
! close of the performance, in a little
speech he was called upon to make,
the count complaiued that the actor
did not make the most of this inci
dent. "I know exactlywhat I am talb
ing about," "he Baid, ffor Pve jusf
been thrown downstairs myself."
SOCIAL INFLICTIONS,
I have Been men who neigh like a
panie of New York, and the other is Johit 'ftföodd.ainous as au Irish, j horss-when you contradict them-OT
ballad singer. The singer with the Indianapolis Military hand will he Vira something they do not under-
irUU OJ'n nn n P Hi a lVi.A 11. x. t 1 .1 i. 1.1. 1
UUIÜU1- uuu UL LUU iUUÖ' öiituu buprauua uiat lias uueii neuui iu tue imzvxl m.A. n mA V, -r-Vo
HAVE REASON TO BE PROUD
Achievement of th American Popf
AfToi VUw of Unbroken
Lino of Proyr.
. Four large concert hands will give the musical features at the Indiana
state fair the week of Sept. 4. John C. Weher's hand, for years a strong
favorite with fair visitors, will have two singing soloists. One is Katherine
Hoch, soprano, Xrom the Metropolitan and the paiSmerstein's opera com
panie
ballad
Ethelia
nifitlirft thnntrfiS nf flio wnsf- Annthpn ljin.l will Vio tVio Wnllno Iflwi'nii-
Zouave organization, whose flashy music will be in keeping with its hril- their OWE lnvitauon to your hoarth;
Jiant uniforms. Its singer will he Miss Huntley, a gifted soprano. The Indi- the persevering talker, who gives
anapolis News Newsboys' band will also spend the week at' the Indiana fair. 1 you his society in large, aaturating
-r-.z-r :r - 1 - ! doses ; the pitiers of themselves a
"Derilous class : the frivolous Aemo-
. - SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS AT INDIANA STATE FAIR 31 j Ls, who telta on you to find him
Indianapolis, Sept. 4-8, 1916. " in popes of Sand to'twistj the mono-
CENTI2NNIAL PAGEANT Brilliant night spectacle reviewing the hia- toneg. Bovi Q Btripe"of ab
tory of Indiana, showing the battles of VInccniiPr pjuI Tippecanoe, Indian u'L. f,' ' i 1 fl" f
and pioneer settlors' lifo, Morgan's raid and oth u- historic episodes, ending SUmtyUieso art) BOGiai UllllCUOns
with a magnificent display of fireworks, under t:n roraoaal supervision of which the magistrate cannot cure
J. Saunders Gordon, president of North American Firo.vorks Co., St. Louis, j or defend 3TOU from, and which muat
CENTENNIAL FIREW The richest displays, filled Avith
ic and civic spirit of the time, that will ho seen in Indiana this
fireworks program follows the Centennial night pageant.
, I i ' I ' i t i i l u ' w Iii I ii' f ' tAn t in nvnAoniAM rr i ii i tvi ai Ain iinnai mi ix
pices otMndinnapolis Automobile Trade Association. Exhibits of everything young peopio in their school dayi.-
that is new in touring cars, roadsters and accessories. j
l-IANKINSON'S AUTO POLO First time this new thriller has been
shown in Indiana. Polo played with motor cars instead of ponies makes the
most thrilling of outdoor sports.
HARNESS RACES The state fair's usual high quality program of trot
ting ahd pacing evonts every afternoon.
CONCERT HANDS Weber's Prize Band of America, Ewing's Zouave
Band, flashy in its music and uniforms; Indianapolis Military, and the Indi
anapolis Newsboys Band. Numerous, singing and instrumental soloists.
DARE-DEVIL DE CARNO Peuforms dangerous, hair-raising feats on
an unsupported steel pole 110 feet high.
ROBINSON'S ELEPHANTS Astonishing tricks in acrobatic and dancing
by the best trained herd in existence.
SEVEN BRACKS Performing seemingly impossible acrobatic somer
saults and othr difficult feats.
JAPANESE TROUPE--A wonderful display of contortions, hand bal
ancing and novel feats of hand and arm strength.
FLORIDA TROUBADOURS Harmony and jubilee singers in bid folk
and ragtime songs
During the past 5 ywira 100,000
miles of railroads hve been built,
requiring an ipenditnre of not lea
than $200,00O;0O0 for labor and
material W u$ both producer!
and consumers. While our 'popula
tion ii only & ltttlt orer Art p
cent, of the population of th odd,
ve produce 20pöC!ent of thrvhatt,
40 per cent, of the iron tnd ftrsl, 53
per cent of the copper, 70 pit cent,
of the cotton and 80 pr cert of the
corn of the wnrld. - ?orthtxmoret
with inconceivable rapidity, machine
err has taken the place of human
toil, and incidentally millions oi
Blares haye been set tree. The same
triumphant progress has unvarying
ly characterized every phase of hih
man endeavor on the American con
tinent. Civil and religions "K&erty
ia a natural condition as well 8B an
attitude of mind. The story of-agri-culture,
of manufacturing, of linn
tug, of the arts and science, demon
strates the unbroken progreee and
uplift of the whole people. Finally,
th health and wU-bein ot the toü
tn masses aare become, with con-
stantly. increasing axnetns of n
dear.or, the individual and collecHro
purpose of the nation. And abovq
all, the democratic iea, through
good and evil report, has encour
aged the personal work and charac
ter of the individual citizen. It haa
always believed that competition
vhich encourages skill should re
main paramount It has always glo
ried in this, personal dompetitiva
typo ai the ideal and preserver of
Ideraocratio traditions. James 0,
IS HUMAN VACUUM CLEANER
Antanda's Economies In L!n of Good
HouttkttpInQ Hits a 8orew
Loo,
i
Long before the Introduction of
the vacuum cleaner Amanda had
achieved by sheer persistence) of arm,
the energetic wielding of broom and
brush,, the precise results accom-
ith the patriot. De intrusted to the restraining force! Pushed by this excellent invention,
his year. Tho CUBt01, an proverbs and famil-j Her husband whimsically complains
iar rulc3 of behavior impressed on I tnRt tiio house is always in process
YOUTHFUL" TAFT ' IS " MÖDES7
Youngest Son of tho President Evl
dently Hat No With to Shlnt
In Reflected Qlory.
President Taft tells a story abont
Charley, his yonngef son, which il
lustrates the fact that he is a real
JWrioan boy and gives nis father a
Ifttle pardonnble pride. Charley is
jusf in limg tronsars and home from
school for the holidays. He shirki
none of Ae responsibilities -nf being
Six CORXKLLAS America's greatest catapult acrobats and ground the ion (ff a president, but does not
tek tho limelight.
Clfarley was a geat at a party oi
glrfs and bdyi oi his own age, and
had been seated at table beside a
littla miss who failed to oatcsi his
name and did not recognize him.
tumblers?.
FOl'R C rN;R3 Tn hand-to-hand casting, double and triple somer
satiltintr. Innuinr: th " !onp, on aerial apparatus.
TJL.M' r;r i medley of mirth by monkeys, dogs and ponies,
featuring "Her II -v Mau l." the funniest of all the trick mules.
PARKETTS GUEATK3T SHOWS The State Fair's Midway will abound
in good tmv: "! n'trictinns of the wholesome kind.
NEW r ::r ROi I.KR COASTER Thrilling rides of the public on an im
mense aeri. nro. Plrst time at the state fair.
ZOUAVE BAND AT STATE FAIR
1 1 j ' .mi, t.itAi9jm.Mi8umt..9jsK JfAt c-1-
of renovation and seldom is a con
dition, which can I considered com
tollable and'livabli but ho is a mere
man and little ctnt be expected of
Hun. Of course, Aindft is ill from
time to time, usually us the result of
doing, more than sho aught She has
headachesjjbackaches and neives that?
are on edge. Her sons slip out of
the house in tho evening because
they prefer to be where they are not
reproved if they dravr a chair from
Its place or leave a newspaper on the
floor. Her daughters enjoy visiting
much more than staying at home,
tnd her maid seldom remains longJi
than a week or two. Sho hacl nine
teen successive maids in a single
leason. Somehow Amanda's econ
omies in the lino of good housekeep
ing have a screw loose. She observed
one day that sho. sympathized with
ftie women who liked to have her
house perfectlv ordered and who
jThey Wmo lufflcientty itagfted then wished that 'she could take her
in each other to make her wish to
know his name.
"What is your name V1 ihe p
pounded frankly.
"Charley was the somewhat ll"m -ited
information which ilie rec:h-
j This satisfied the little girl ivs j
j time, but Charley is a winsome boj
i and. her interest grew. So she pur-
i sued
family and live in the barn so that
the house need not be disturbed.
Margaret E. Sangster, in Christian
Herald.
600 BULLETS PCR MINUTE,
The recently invented BenetMr
cier gun combines the rapidity oi
ed the inquiry further by asking:, fire effectiveness of a ma
"Where do von live? ! -f , n
J "On Pennsylvania avenue," was
, the answer to this, if was true, for
the White House is located on this
( thoroughfare. A
"What foes your father do?" pur-
sued the young lady in a further at
- tempt to place her escort, to which
Charley naively replied :
chine gun with the lightness and ac
tion of a magmzine rifle. The gunj
is fired from a rest and held agsinjt
the shoulder of its operator, Ük
can either fire from a sitting poioJ
tion or lying prone. The regulakkso
cartridge ia used in clip that ! bold!
50. A good rifleman can dkrhargq
from 300 to 500 shots per minute,
e , "0b, he has a political position! 5f ted in feeding by a man
ountry, hc?f ff Sil &t clips. The gun is at present'
. 4. It It was from her hostess that the; sjn.oTgoiii?r a series of tests bv arm
Ewlng's Zuüave band, the flashiest musical occamzation in the country
is nationally known for its stirring music and brilliant uniforms and will W&t laüy nnaliy lcarnetl tqat 6lij -j.-, n yieT7 to its adoption'
give continuous concents morning and afternoon during the fair. had bean sitting with' the son of ths y guvernment Popular Mfi
J. z-r,.- .- - - Oretidtnt j ' thanics. .
