ICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, AUGUST 11, 191G
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 85
NGGAINS
ARIZONA REFIT
RUSSIANS AE:
f ?
ANS
NUE
BRITISH I HAMPERED
WEATHER BUTTHEIR
, ALLIES ARE
f (By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Although bad weather is hampering the British and French maneu
viers in the west, both the Italians nd the Russians are keeping up their
strong offensives against the Teutonic allies, respectively, in Austria and
Galicia, and at last reports both had made additional important gains.
On the Uonzo front the Italians have continued to throw their forces
across the river and have fought their way to the east of the captured city
of Gorizia. In addition, southwest of Gorizia thev have taken stronq
Austrian entrenchments near Monte San Michele and Monte San Martino
and also occupied the town of Doschini, givinq them a free hand for their
operations in that region and southward toward the Monsalcone sector.
Large numbers of prisoners were taken in the fighting.
Vienna, in discussing the loss of Gorizia, says the evacuation follow
ed the repulse of new Italian attacks on the Doberdo plateau, and that the
strengthening of the Austrian lines made necessary by the operation was
carried out without molestation from the Italians. Vienna also reports
that 4.100 Italians have been taken prisoner in the recent fighting in this
region.
In Galicia. in the sectors of Stanislau and Halich the Russians have
driven their forces further westward in their endeavor to capture the cen
tral portion of the railroad runninq from Kolomea to Lemberg. Passing
across the Monsterzyska-Niznioff railway, they have forded the Slota
Lioa river south west of Halich and south of Stanislau have captured
the town of Krypin on the Stanislau-Nadvorni railroad.
The Berlin official communication says that along the front of Arch
Duke Charles Francis, in Galicia. southwest of Welesnios and south of
th Dniester, new positions have been ocruoied by the Teutonic allies in
accordance with previously arranged plans. Russian attacks along the
Strumen and Stokhod rivers were repulsed with sanguinary losses to
the Russians Another big battle has started near Brody, in northern
Galicia.
Owinq to the inclement weather in Prance, mi'itary activity has been
confined principally to bombardmen-s. which were somewhat heavy north
of the Somme and in theThiaumont work sector near Verdun.. An at
tempted German advance against the British lines south of Martinpuch
was put down by the fire of trench mortar and machine guns, accord
inq to London.
Fierce fiphtinq is still goinq on between the Turks and Russians on
the Mush-Bitlis front in Turkish A-mn'.
A squadron of 21 Austrian aero1',ne ra dropped a large number
of bombs on Venice, causing numer1" fires in the historic city.
Stanislau Is
Within Range of
The Russian Guns
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PETRoGRAO.Aug. 10. (Via London)!
-Tlif UUKn-or-ktanislau. in UaMciM, is
already within the range of the Rus
sian guns. The Russian general. I.eteh
itzky, losing no lime in following up
hia victory at Tysminentsa. nan pushed
westward along the railroad and
northwestward along the wagon roed
and in the latter direction, has ap
proached to within six mile of Htams
lau. Simultaneously, he has announced
a drive across the Koroniee river nnd
the formation of a new line of advance
north of the Dniester.
The counting of General Letchltzyk's
prisoners during the ten days' opera
tions, show that he has taken upward
of fifteen thousand and it is estimated
mat ien mousann more men were put j
out of commission. This would bring
the grand total of prisoners to Gen-
early in
" o l niunniKni 7 eieilll nillU? CH
June to 4fi2.flfin.
The capture, by the Russians
railway station oi Krypiin. on 'oeiw.fcp sunnlies
Stanislau-Nadvorna railroad, was an-
nouneed officially today.
Pushing westward from the Koro
plec river, the Russians have reached
the Monasterzyska-Niznloff railway
and the mouth of the Zlota Llpa river,
northwest of Niznioff.
The statement follows:
"Our troops who have occupied the
right bank of the River Koropfec in
developing their success, have reached1
te Monastemyaka-Niznloff rsllwnv I
and advanced to the mouth of thel"' "m J'. Bn,,w ki i. ,
Zlota Lipa river I I)or'" carrying cargoes w hich consist
"In the region of Tyskienit!. r wholly or in part. of contraband.
troops continue their movement to (Continued on Page Two)
II SUBSTITUTE PROFIT EXCISE
TAX FOR TAX ON MUNITIONS
Republican A. P. Leaed wire against nations which prohibit the "lm
WAKHINGTON, Aug. 10. A net Portatlon of any article, the produc-t of
profit excise tax on all manufacturers tne "oil or industry of the United
selling goods to foreign government. States and not Injurious to health or
as a substitute for the munitions tax moral.1' The president would be fin
In the pending revenue bill, is being Powered to prohibit importation Into
seriously considered by democrats of tn' L'nited States of similar article
the senate finance committee. from offending countrie. or other ar-
The tax on munition of war. includ- tides in case none of similar character
)ng coper products, as proposed in , were imported.
the house bill, has been giving demo- ! Another amendment agreed to would
cratlc senate leader considerable admit all dyestuffs and coal tar medi
trouble. They have been told by ex- rinal derlvltlea free of duty during the
pert, however, that the sulmtltute vir- European war. and would postpone op
tually agreed on would not constitute eratlon of the proposed tariff on such
an export tax and would he eonstitu- commodities until the close of the war
tional. Although directed against gen- or BUCh time a their general impor
eral export to foreign governments, it tatlon shall be renewed.
is expected, that the proposed plan
would apply particularly to manufac
turer who have made large fortunes
out of the European war and would
rill nun.. .v. i 1 1 1 . . . k. n .. . .
the rovernment The ol.in under con- !
(deration I substantially as follows:
That every person or corporation
engaged In the business of selling
goods, ware, or merchandise of any
(llHcrlptlon to any foreign government
or to the agents or representative of
such foreign governments, shall pav
for each taxable year an excise tax of
one per cent on the net profits of such
business In excess of ten per cent of
the capital Invested, and not in excess
,i iT:.i..v ; iil. i ww (j'-i uni. vii wnnnui repuuuctin co-operaiion in an
net profit In excess of twenty and not effort to diHpose of pending legislation
In xcrM tif thlrtv per rent: three per by September 1.
cent on no profits in excess of thirty Republican leaders who had given
but not in excess of forty per cent: the democrats hope that their adjourn
four per cent on net nroflts In ex"e-i ment proposal might be accepted, were
of forty, but not of fifty percent; and unable to control the party confer
flve per cent on net profits in excess ence. which took up the matter today
of fifty per cent. I for ratification.
The rommlttee tndnv a?red to nn! Progresive republican, led by Sen
nmendment which would authorize the atora Borah and La Follette, refused to
presides to take retaliatory action be bound, by any program which would
STIEL
the north and to the west, having oc
cupied in a westerly direction the
right bank of the river, near Stricy
Nadvornaskol. On the Nadvorna-
Stanislau line, we captured the Joint
railway station of Krypltn. All the'
Imogen over the river have been!
blown up by the enemy.
i
"In the region of Vorocht
Di -V, i, u....
hava. our troops made an advance of nie-1 that anv such request haU been
several versts. made but an Investigation of the de-
"Caucami front: We repelled. Turk- psirtmenl's files dls losed that a let
ish attacks in thg -Tearhm west of rer prrpared by a suliordinate official
Giumichkhan. Fierce fighting is eon-1 has been signed cither by Secretary
tinuing north of the Mish-Iiitlis line.11! Lansing or Acting Secretary Polk
land had heen transmitted to tho tier
Gambling in Bread ' man emliassy.
LONDON. Aug. Under the State department officials d lared
heading "Gambling in Bread." the1 ,r much importance had heen
Dally Express toriav Indicates to its attached to the request in German
readers that the new rise In the price I
of bread which will go into effect In
London Monday, is due to manipula
tions in Chicago.
"Circumstances," it says, "appear to
have conspired to enable the Chicago
wheat market to indulge In one of its
periodical gambles for the purpose of
putting up the price agtinst bread
ter. While it is not believed that
Chicago tan create anything like a
corner in wheat, there is a strong Im-
-es.on" operaors 7."
u rt mf t in tr itn t hi
,,' in Australia and are bein used
aa fuel, and large quantltK-s ere be
ing held in Argentina for the lack of
1 ships."
The German minister at Stockholm
has issued, in behalf of his govern
ment, a revised list of contraband,
says f Stockholm dispatch to the
Morning Post. At the same time, it
7 annuunceo inai cnmmamiern .i
,,erma.n wniim nave been instructed
To Drive A long
For Early Adjournment
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 10. Their of
fer of a compromise legislative pro
gram which might lead to an early
adjournment of congress, rejected by
the renublica ns. democrats. t a
leaders decided tonigh to drive along
Administration Is Reproach To
THREE SCORE DEAD. TM1IISAFM
m w v
BREMEN BELIEVED
OFF VIRGINIA CAPES I
NORFOLK. Va.. Aug. 10. Re
ports that the German submarine
merchantman Bremen, ulster ship
to the Deutschland, is off the
capes and will pass into Hampton
Roads within the next twenty-four
hours, were current here tonight.
and were believed in German clr- j
cles In close touch with the East
ern Forwarding companv. agents
for the submarine line, one rumor
that Rained wide circulation and
credence was that the Hremen
would come In early to- ,
I morrow morning. The weather is I
I cloudy and threatening; and offers I
an excellent opportunity, It was !
pointed out. for the submersible to I
1 elude the allied cruisers stationed I
off the capes. j
n :
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 10 State of
ficials today explained that the re
rent request t the German embassy
for permission to publish one of
fount rnn Hernstorffs notes on the
I IICATI
EUSITAMA CASE
ABOUT SETTLED
I settlement of the Lusitama. vase, was
nd thei.. . . ,
ln innuirunnr. m mm n
official quarters, and that it was not
as lnte'preteri. an ir.nicauon imn
iermany's proosals were to be ac
cepted ax wttisfactory.
Htate department officials today
broke their silrnte on the subjert and
asserted that what really h-ippenei
was this:
A siitordinate official who as
sembles Hie di lomitir corre spond
onco wrote the German embassv
itfr wtilch Mr. Polk admitted was
n' WM?
mltted by the f!erman ambassydor or
December 4. The embassy replied
giving Its assent, with the suggestion
thnt the last note, dated February
1. be published at the 'nmc time
This suggestion was not answered.
on tre othor hand, the seetion
that nv of the corresHndence be
published was dronoed at once on the
decision of hiitber officials thnt tb
rlrciimxtanres which Intervened to
prevent n conclusion of the negotia
tlol). ha(j not t)OPn altered.
The embassv was not Informed of
the chape in the pbn. Word wns
ent to Rerlin that the note would
he made public here. "
When, Information we received
here of th .request to the embassv
end its replv. German embassy of
ficials were nueitioned. nnd thev led
notiirer to believe thev considered
Germany would nrce'pt the proposals.
This was supplemented further bv
charar terllng as absolutely unwar
ranted recent intimations from Her-
t on riii onoer-ea wnrrare was anoin
to be resumed on Its farmer scai".
There was the added impression thnt
the I'nit?d State had teen con
vinced by the abandonment of the
submarine campaign since the si"kine
of the channel liner Sussx. of tbe
sincerity of Germany's eWlarntion of
cceeptance of the prln"ip'es laid
r1oH'n. t'pon thnt shoving thev be
lieved 1h state dennrtment was abo"t
to pt;bllsh the I,!initani.i correspond
ence wih an Implication at least, of
its acceptability.
This view of the situation was laid
before Acting Secretary Polk Wed
nesday as having been gained in Ger
man official circles. Mr. Polk's reply was
a refusal even to dlwuss the Lusitanl.i
case.
The T'nlted States government. It
therefore appenrs. does not consider
the matter settled in nnv sense any
more than It was last February.
Hoping
prevent action on the corrupt practices.
widow pension, civil war veterans
retirement and immigration bill.
The result was that a resolution was
adopted rejecting the democratic pro
posal and urging passage of the immi
gratlon bill before adjournment. It
wan the first time in several years that
Senator La Kollctte had attended a
party conference.
Democratic senators said tonight
tnat no change in the legislative pro
gram drafted recently by the party
caucus now wan contemplated. They
were hopeful that the shipping and
revenue bill and conference reports
could be disposed of and adjournment
reached early in September at the
latest.
ss mm mar ma at u uar
WEST VIRGINIA
FLOODS CAUSE
GREAT RAISE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHARLESTON. W. Va., Aug.,
10. Sixty-six persons are known
to have lost their lives in the
flood which swept three West
Virginia mountain streams yester
day, rendering 10,000 persons
homeless and causing a property
loss estimated at $5,000,000.
Reports were still meagre to
night owing to interrupted wire
and rail communication, but the
authorities express the belief that
the death toll might reach 100.
The national Red Cross this
afternoon offered aid to the flood
sufferers but the local and state
authorities replied that they be-,
lieved the situation could be
handled without outside assist- .
anee. Two companies of the Sec
ond regiment. West Virginia na
tional guards, are already in the
flood district with tents and pro
visions. Reiiorts tonleht trleV'ated that the
greatest loss of life was at Kerndale,
where ! persons are known to tie
dead. The number dead at other
tillages and pottlcments follow:
Kskdale R; 1'ritei'i S: Miami S; Dawes
.': Dry Ilranch 3; Holly II; Giles 5;
hiklev 7: Iowood 1; Acme 1. and
Cherokee I. M-iny liodies are lielicvecT
to have been mashed down the
htreams towardtbe Ohio river and
prob-ihly never will be recovered.
The excurnon tiain carrying :!"0
Sunday school picnieera which was
marooned between two creeks with
washouts on either side, arrived at
St. Alnars tonight after the imssenger
had sent i4 ho'irs in the d.n coaches
without fo'ifl. on the Cabin creek
iranrh of the Chesapeake and Ohio
nulroad another imssenger train lies
nn Its Kidi- with no tra-ks -.or n
-Ml the parsengers escaped safely.
Kour hundred square miles were
devastated by the flood. Klghteen
miles of track on the ('hexapeaae ami
Ohio railroad have prn'tli-ally been
lemoltshed. Kvery bridge has been
swept awav nnd the road led for
miles washed out.
One tunnel was washed full of
debris. Railroad officials declare six
ty days will be required to rebuild
the main line to Cabin creek and
much longer time to repair the branch j
lines. I
Cabin c-oek. whose flood waters
tore through its little mountain valley
yesteiday, tooay returned to its nar
row bed.
Kor sixteen miles from Randa.
where the creek empties into the
Kanawha river, there stretched a
seme of absolute desolation. Men In
i:har',-e of the many relief parties al
ready at work feel that the number
of dead will be considerably increased'
svhen the count Is completed. A line
man returning from a thirteen-mile
tramp through the devastated dis
tricts, reported forty dead along his
roi:te.
The flood came upon the valley
early Wednesday morning. W. A
:mlth, an insurnnce broker of Cin
innati, who wax in the district, de
clared thnt the water rolled down the
narow valley, foam crested, and from
bis point of vantage on an engine at
Kskdale. where be and other had
ken refuge, he saw the roundhouse
fill with ten feet of water in less
than half nn hour, while the flood
stretched from hill to hill across the
valley.
Houses were swept from their
foundations and women and children
hurriedly leaving their homes were in
some instances drowned before they
could reach the hills.
The flood came In contact with the
carbide supply of a moving picture
theater at Kskdale and it exploded.
blowing the place to pieces. leaded
coal cars were Jammed one against
the other in indescribable confusion.
A street carnival companv showing
In De Soto lost all of its equipment
and animals.
o
Pour Booze Into
Gutters Hundreds
Watching Process
i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
GIRARD. Ala.. Aug.. 10. Forty-six
ban els of whiskey and 108 barrels of
beer, confiscated recently In a raid
of places of prohibition law violators,
were destroyed today by Sheriff Lind
Fcy, of Russell county on orders Is
sued by Judge Alston at Scnle. Ala.
Hundreds of persons from Columhua,
G.i looked on while the liquor was
ooured into abutters from which it ran
into the Chattahoochle river.
A bystander threw a match into
the stream of whiskey and the fire
department was called out to prevent
the flams spreading to nearby ware
houses which contained still greater
quantities of lbiuor to lie destroyed
tomorrow. Attorney General Martin
has aRlted the court for authority to
throw away the liquor, the total value
of which Is sain to be Eeyerai hun
dred thousand dollars.
mum aar r g mt af
PRESIDENT MAY TAKE
HAND IN SETTLEMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW AORK. An?.. 10 President
U'lluim -. ill I... nll. .1 .,,... ... .. '
Ui,..i, ie ".been in communication with Presi
l'.aiid in the Kcttlument of the differ- ! dent Wilson since it arrived here.
ences between the four railroad broth- i
.rhoods and their empioyes. unless
an apparent deadlock in the negotia- .
uons wim-n aeeiopeo toaay can ne .
troken, it was indicated here tonight
by representatives of both factions.
After it had heard the contentions
of the workers and later those of thi
railroad managers, the L'nited States i
board of mediation and conciliation
w.-.s undecided tonight as to when it
would .igaln meet with representa
tives of either side. Martin A. Knapp,
; one of the federal mediators, when
I r.sked whether there had been any
change in the situation since the
boc.rd bgan its work replied:
' There is a deadlock on the face of
DANISH WEST
S SALE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COPKNHAGKN (via London). Aug.
10. The first reading of the bill pro
viding for the wile of the Iwnl.sh West
Indie to the l'nited States van taken
up in the I'olkething, the lower house
of Kigsdag. today, and will be con
tinued tomorrow. It is believed that
the Folkethlng will adopt the measure
owing to the fact that the radical and
socialistic parties, which have a ma-
jority, favor the sale.
On the other hand, the Landsthing,
or upper house, it is thought, is op
posed to the measure, the Left party
having joined the constructive who
desire to postwne consideration of the
matter.
During the discussion today there
was much excitement in the house and
some women among the spectators
shouted, "We. will not selL"
Several of the mini.steriflook part In
the debate and the statement was made
in behalf of the government that
neither domestic nor economic con
siderations, but the international sit
uation had broucbt the question to a
head and that if the sale was rejected
(Continued on Page Two)
CONIB
MA Y BE THE BREMEN
Rrpublican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 10. Two mys
terious wireless calls about 3 o'clock
this morning and the refusal of the
sender to disclose his Identity, al
though questions by the shore stations
led to the belief that the call might be
from the German submarine Rremen.
This could no: be verified. The caller
sicned his message with the sign
"DHIY1 which 1.4 the privata signal of
the North German Lloyd Rieamei
SAT LIABILITY1 BILL PLACES
IM
(Special to The Republican)
Tl't'SoN, Aug. lrt. Compensation
for injury or death while employed,
held the attention and consumed timo
in toady's session of the State Fed
eration" of Labor. The initiated bill,
started by Mahoney of Oatnian anl
drafted by Senator Worsley. was
found to ie defective. A resolution
urging the use of the resources of tho
Federation for its defeat waa ap
proved by the law and legislative
committee and adopted by the con
vention.
Perry of Risbee declared that It
would have it tendency to put a pre
mium upon foreign labor because of
Its provision that in the case of an
injury resulting in death, where the
workman's family resides In a forcicn
country, they sha.ll be paid only half
of wlat would be paid if they re-
sitlod In the United Stales. Many
delegates declared that, as bad as is
the present law, this bill would make
il worse.
The Bislvee Miners' I'nion csime to
the front next with a resolution rais
ing the compensation for permanent
injury from 140(10 to $lti,000, on- the
ground that the higher juice paid, the
mure protection would he granted
voluntarily ly the employers to the
workers. Other provisions sought are'
starting payment from the first day
Instead of after the fourteenth, and
fixing the rate ot T5 per cent of his
wages instead of 511 per nt, as :it
present. The doctor reiortic; on the
time when, 'he injured is fit to re
turn to work is to be selected hy t'e
employe, not by the company, as is
Intelligence
MM FSSlEMIANT,
m Vnar am m mm sfaa Bn as
it. whether wo can change it lies
"e Bosom or the future.
"""I'l' "l ""V
11, U'nu,.,. L-.l,l l.wA V... ...
nen uskiq nnwever, u conamons i
Zl
(i,., Mr Wm.im h
rii. iiKs the matter ifo ,irioH thvtl
the lioiitd would continue its efforts
to adjust the differences.
"W e are going to consider tonight
wnat the next steo will be. he as-
serted.
What concessions, if any, the rail
road manase's offered to make to
the men could not be ascertained.
The mediators met the managers
:-eoretly this afternoon, remaining in
eonlerfnce with them
m more than
ards were sta-
three hours, t-a-o irnMtviv ui.ro wta i
tioned outside the rooms in a hotel ,
where ihe meeting was held.
Pept'Nican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON' Anir 11 Keorotarv-
Houston, in a letter to Preslednt Wil- ,
PRINT PAPER
SHORTAGE If
BE TEMPORARY
son. made nublic todav. tells of invest!-isuch
gations made by the forest service into Proval. e have heard a great deal
the print paper shortage and declares latPly of the power of executive lead
the experts of the service "are inclined , ership. It ha been wonderfully ex
to believe that the present condition tended. Why can it not- be used to
mav be temrorarv." He savs a de- Kave the public purse from being
tailed study of sulphite nulu manufac- 'looted in the interests of these ridicu-
turing processes now is well advanced
and is being pushed as rapidly as the
avaiiahle sources permit. raisneu ine rcpuoncan party lor ex-
"I have been informed," writes the 'travagance and waste and reckless ex -secretary,
"that before the war eastern ' lenditure. Then they proceeded to lie
markets, which arc the principal paper more lavish in appropriations than the
markets of the country, were fully sup- ' republican party had been. They ap
plied by American mills and the im-jraigned the republican party for lack
ports from several foreign countries. ' of business-like administration, and
Prices, as a result, were so low as to , then they proceeded to be adequately
offer little inducement to new mills profligate in their appropriations,
in the west, where our great timber "Now, I have no apologies for re
reserves are located. It is probable publican extravagance. I am just as
that conditions after the war may be quick to condemn that which is wrong
very similar to those which existed in my own party as I am anywhere
before. These factors have a direct else.
bearing upon the suggestion repaid- ! "I don't stand for what I don't be
ing the construction and opera?! .1 of lievc right, simply because it is under
government plants.
1 he forest service has offered for
(Continued on Page Two)
llresla
ilati. believed to be tied up in the
of New Orleans. The mysterious
Iiort I if New Orleans. The irivstpriiuiii .
caller would say only that he was on "emuerais.
board a coal steamer. All German "Places for deserving democrats.1
ships before the war used the Tele- Mr- Hughes said, "has been the motto
funken call. The first of the wireless f the administration in a nut shelL
flashes was received at 1:50 a. m., and "My friends, I stand for a business
the sender was told bv the shore ta- like administration of the government
tions that the Telefunken station was of the United States, not for politics,
then cb sed. An hour later the sender not to reward friends, not to build up
asked the shore station at Seagate to a lersonal machine, not to put myself
ascertain when the Telefunken station in any particular position tif favor, but
would be opened. ! to administer honestly the affairs of
' ithe United States."
the practice at present. This wae de
ferrcd to the incoming law and leg-
lslative committee.
An amendment to the constitution
limits the right of any person to hol.l
tno same ot.ue more than two terms
"',TO' , , .
Some time was taken up by com-
mlttee reports, and considerable bust-
nes, of minor importance was trans-
BCriTi . , ,, , . t. -.-
The automobile ride to San Javier
mission, gtven through the chamber
of commerce was enjoyed, and the
":iu,ia in lilt- iniiiui auii'iisteu uia
nleased nil delegates.
Less Cars And Locomotives
Last Year Than Year Before
Republican A. P. Leased Wirej
CHICAGO. Aug.. 10. There were
7 ".1'J less freight cars and 815 less
locomotives in service in the United
States at the close of the fiscal year
1 f1 5 than at the close of 1914. says
the current number of the Railway
Age Gazette, "notwithstanding the
national Rrowth in the demand for
railway equipment from vear to year."
These fiuures, the publication says,
are shown in the annual statistical
statement of the Interstate commerce
commission.
In onlv unc other year since 1850
has the number of locomotives shown
Of People
INGOMPETEN
SAYS RUCHES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FARGO, N. D., Aug. 10. Charles E.
Hughes tonight asailed the present ad
ministration for inefficiency, waste and
extravagance, particularly with refer-
i ence to the river and harbor bill, re-
,, ,1UH h ."
Hf w-.thout rash-
nesa' Mr- Hughes toid an audience.
here, "that the government of the
United States is recklessly wasteful,
shamefully incompetent and extrava
gant, a reproach to the intelligence of
the people, because of its inefficiency.
"I would like to have the authority
to investigate this administration for
about six months," the nominee said.
"The rivers and harbors bill, known
to tne people as the pork barrel bill,"
Mr. Hughes said, "is largely monies
"anlcu. aa "'ere is no expert exam
tion to determine what expendit
wasted, as there is no expert examina-
ures
ar.e neecd-
On the contrary, it very largely de
pends on who are the influential men
representing particular districts and
what appropriations are obtained in
this district and that district for this
' man and that man.
"This is a matter of long standing.
It brings a blush of shame to the
cheeks of every American. It ought
to be stopped. If I am elected presi
dent, to the best of my ability, I pro
pose to stop it."
Mr. Hughes declared the "ork barrel
bill of 1914 was "talked to death by
Senator Burton, a fine republican, and
ithat the li15 bill was reduced mater
ially because of the objection of re
publican senators and conscientious
ueinociats.
"This year, just the other day," the
nominee continued, "congress passed
a rivers and harbors bill of some $42.-
00(,.,o('
I confess I don't know why
a measure should receive ap-
lous appropriations?
"Four years ago, our opponents ar-
the banner of a particular party.
Mr. Hughes read again the lettet-
sent him by E. Dana Durand. in which
Mr. Durand declared his resignation
as director of the census "was dis
tinctly forced" in denial of Secretary
Redfield's assertion that the resigna
tion was voluntary. The nominee also
said that the letter written by Wm. J.
Bryan, to the receiver-general of Santo
! omingo, asking for a list of office
. tnat cou,d be fllled h "deserving
Reverting to the rivers and harbors
appropriations of 1916, Mr. Hughes
said :
"Take for example, the Arkansas
river. That is an illustration as I
understand it, of a case where there
has been an expert report against the
. appropriation. The report was, as I
understand it. to the effect that $35,000
'should be the appropriation. Two hun-
dred thousand dollars and over were
i appropriated right in the teeth of the
examination of the project"
The Mexican situation was discussed
at length. The administration, Mr.
, HllKhes 8aid by vacillation, weakness
stronK.headedness. had brought
us very close to grave difficulties
there. The only clear course we naa
, ,n Mexico t0 protect the rights of
American citizens.
Mr Hughes repeated his views, a-
aailins thJ administration for the ap-
pointmpnt of inexperienced men to the
'diplomatic service.
j Thi j of pomica, dcbt8 wlth
i uhi of'fice!) hon.yCombing our ad-
ministrative ,if.;. he said. "1 am op-
(Continued on Page Two)
fa fallin-r off from the previous year
tind in only three years during the
. last twenty-six has the number
freight cars in service shown
duct ion.
"On the theoretical basis this fall
in off in equipment in' 1915 is a re
flection of a condition in spite of
whose existence no argument is re
quired. Transportation business was
slack.",., the paper says.
A practical lKiint of view, it says,
indicates that as a measure of econ
omy the place of missing number
was supplied by the use of old equips
ment.
7
