Hex
be
Ittle
tnaton
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1916.
NUMBER 32.
DICK STALLING KILLED
WHILE HUNTING
Death of Mrs. Ernest Sipe. City Council Proceedings.
Mrs. Ernest Sipe died Tuesday j Th city council met Monday
mnrnin? at 7:45 o'clock at her ,mcht in regular session witn
home on Southwest Boulevard,
following a long illness of tuber
culosis. Mrs. Sipe was a daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. William Hicklin,
and was born in Lexington,
August 16, 1885. She was mar-
vere held from the home Wed
nesday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock
and one brother,
lin, of this city.
Receives Death WTound From
Accidental Discharge of
Shot Gun.
The community was grievous
ly shocked Tuesday night when
word reached here that Dick
Stalling had been shot and in
stantly killed by the accidental
discharge of a shot gun while
hunting on the Davis Creek,
eight miles southeast of May
view. How the accident happen
ed is problematical, as he was
alone at the time, and while
only about one hundred yards
from the rest of the party, no
one saw the manner of the acci
dent. He was with a party con
sisting of John I. Ashurst, Joe
Long and J. A. McDaneld. They
were working their way to
their car and Dick was passing
through some thick brush, when
gun shot was heard by others of
iha nnrfv nnH nhniif t.wpntv mill.
utes later when they arrived at!? twenty-four hours to
i.u ,1 : n i u.; i,tn leave iuwji.
me tar anu siguaueu vy biiuulo
Mayor Minor presiding and all
councilman present.
The regular monthly report for
GAME WON IN NINTH
FROM LAGER-BOOSTERS
Death of Mrs. A. A. Walker.
Mrs. Addison A. Walker died
Col. Hoge Goes to Culver.
Col. William H. Hoge has ac-
at Sedalia Sunday morning accepted a professorship in Culver
9 o'clock after several months' t Military Academy, Culver, Ind.,
illness of rheumatism. and will leave with his family
Mrs. Walker was the daughter 'early in September for Culver
Only One Bad Inning in Game
Brown's Thumb Broken.
A carefully selected bunch of
July of Police Judge Harry semi-pro base ball players from of the late Dr. and Mrs. Samuel so as to be settled for the open
Mountain was received, read Kansas City playing under the! J. Tutt, and was born in Cooper ing September 20th.
ordered filed. name of Old Fashioned Lagers, j county, March 16, 1846. She j Col. Hoge came here twelve
The report of the claims com-jcanie down Sunday and were! was married to Addison A. years ago from the Kemper
ried to Ernest Sipe, January 27, jrmttee was read, approved and handed a b to 5 beating by the Walker at Cedar Lawn, Cooper Military School, Boonville, Mo.,
1909. Besides her parents, Mrs. ordered filed. -Athletics. Only for one bad in- 'county, December 3, 1868. To and bought a half interest in
Sipe is survived by her husband, The bill of the Missouri Gas &jning, the beer boys would have this union one daughter was Wentworth, where he had been
a six year old daughter, Marie, i Electric Service Company for been smeared with a coat of born Miss Margaret Clark actively engaged in its manage-
Claude Hick-1 $314.71 was allowed.
;whitewash. The visitors found , Walker, who died in April 1898. ment and in teaching until the
On motion of Mr. But-lrn, the I their batting eye in this frame i The funeral will be held Tues- close of the last school year.
The funeral services, conduct- city attorney was instructed to'iand "Red" Erdwin, the portsided day, and burial will be at Peas-1 Col. and Mrs. Hoge have en-
ed by Rev. Richard W. Wallace, investigate the upkeep of water lunger Irom labo, who started ant Green, Cooper County. deared themselves to everyone
on 1st street. to heave tor the domestics, was ithey have come in contact with
On motion of Mr. Buellens, the victim of a murderous on- Death of Mrs. Katherine Penn. during their residence here,
two lights were ordered to be slaught, which netted the visit-j Mrs. Katherine Penn died at Their influence for good has been
placed in 1st. ward. ors 3 runs. Runners were on 6 o'clock Sunday evening at the - felt in every activity of the city,
second and third, and one down, home of her son, Frank Penn, and the people of Lexington,
Death fol- trenerallv. reeret that thev are
16th street were opened. No playing around the second sta- lowing an operation for appendi-! going to leave. However, the
Police Court.
In the police court Monday
the following cases received
the attention of Judge Moun
tain: Oliver Hunter, carrying dead-
Bids for constructing flush '
tank and repairing man holes on when Carmichael, who had been ,1808 Oneida street.
bid coming within the specif ica-ition, was sent to the hill. One citis.
'universal wishes for continued
and blowing of the horn,
Dick did not respond, they start
ed a search. They knew about
where he was last seen, but
wholly unconscious of the acci
dent, they soon ran upon hi3
body. The charge had entered
the body just below the breast
bone and death must have been
instantaneous. His pipe lay but
a short distance from him and it
can easily be conjectured that
he was in the act of filling his
pipe and had let the gun lean
against his body when it ex
ploded. The gun was a 16
gauge hammerless Winchester.
The body was brought to Lex-
tions of the city engineer, all hit was made off the big right
... ... .. ..i i i
ly weapon, fined $55.30, or were rejected and the city clerk nanuer ana scored tne two men.
instructed to re-advertise for But, alter Carmichael got warm
bids to be called and opened at ed up, the city lads were help
an adjourned session of the less before his delivery and only
council, August 16th. two clean hits were made off by Rev. J. C. Bierbaum, were
Bids for painting calaboose him in the five rounds he toiled. .held at the home Tuesday after-
disturbing, keepers apartments were open- The Athletics manufactured .noon at 3 o'clock
led and read and the contract their counters in the second,
Leo Woods, plain drunk, fined
$6.20, or one hour to leave
town.
H. W. Schilling,
peace, fined $6.20.
Mrs. Penn was 66 years of age. ; health, happiness and prosper-
She is survived by two sons. ; ity, will accompany them.
I Frank and William Penn of this
city.
I The funeral services conducted
O. P. Cowan, nlain drunk, fined awarded to Joseph fleet.
$5.75, which he paid in cash
The
third, fourth and ninth
On motion of Mr. Bell, the count was knotted after the announce the birth of
Tuesday morninc in the police city engineer was instructed to fourth frame, and the game was Clyde WTilliam, Friday
:ourt two cases were heard and check up all tile belonging to the won, like many tne locals nave
sentence imnosed. !city. grabbed, by a brilliant ninth in-
D. F. Carr, plain drunk, fined
$5.75 and told to "get."
ington and taken to the Winkler
Undertaking parlors for
aration for burial.
Mr. Bell introduced an ordin-.nmg finish,
ance entitled "An Ordinance to ! Bryant and Lineback, first two
Geo Brav wife hpatinir fined Raise the Salary of the Cala- men up, died whiffing the ozone.
$14.75, I boose Keeper." The same was Mackie then singled, his third
'read three times and passed. hit of the game, Harding was
Dr. and Mrs. B. T Pavne an-' 0n motion of Mr. Buellens, it put in to run for him, who went
' J I ,,,, . . J 1 V J 1 T
nounce the birth of a daughter was ordered that an inventory to secona wnen me L,ager sec-
' Sunday, August 6, 1916. e made of all material on hand, ond baseman let Howe's hot
i , - I A motion was made' and car-grounder slip through him. Bail-
Republican County Committee
Organizes.
The Republican county com
mittee organized Tuesday by
electing E. M. Taubman, chair-
man ; U. G. Phetzing, secretary ;
Mr. and Mrs. Clyde C. Wright Daniel Hoef er, Treasurer. The
a son, ( committee will meet in Higgins
jville, Monday, August 21, for
C. W. Weghurst spent Sunday! the purpose of filling vacancies
in Sedalia on business. jon the county ticket.
FOR SALE
Mis Marin Stno-npr retnm ried that the Mayor appoint a ey then singled to right, Hard-
prep" to her home in Boonville Sunday committee to investigate the ing racing home with the win-mm-nino-
nfW a wppW viai matter of motorizing the fire ning run.
Deidnch Stalling was the son , Q ... . Tm1r. department. I Drummond Brown, a former
of the late Deidrich Stalling, and j
was born Feb. 1, 1881, in Olden- j -
burg, Germany. His parents the highest esteem by everyone.
Wheat Farms, Wheat Land, Alfalfa Farms,
and Stock Ranches
department.
I Council adjourned
'August 16th.
to
I
meet backstop for the Kansas City
Feds, who is doing the receiving
for Boss Stevens' crew, met with
came to Lexington when he was He was an energetic soul, always Monoplane Flight Labor Day. an accident in the fifth inning,
a baby and most of his life had up and doing something, andj Qne of the many attractions when the thumb on his right
been spent here. Mr. Stalling commanded respect by his hon- Arranged f0r by Local Union No. hand was broken, being hit by
was the original proprietor of est and honorable dealings. 171 0f the United Mine Workers a pitched ball.
Stalling's Bakery. This he af- j Mr. Stalling is survived by his 0f America for the Labor Day
terwards sold to his brothers and step-mother, Mrs. Amelia Stall- celebration, will be a monoplane
the:: :ro;;t a fsw years in the ing; four sisters, Mrs. A. E. flight by Andrew Ruppert of
state of Washington. On his re- Taubman, Misses Laura, Ida and Kansas City. This is something
turn here, he opened a shoe Esther Stalling, and three new for Lexingtonians and no
store on West Main in the build- brothers, Otto, of Pueblo, Colo., (i0UDt will attract people from
ing formerly occupied by his Robert and Eettin of this city. a parts 0f the county. IIou
father, and of which he was still ' The funeral was held from pert will make two flights over
proprietor. "Dick," as he was the home yesterday afternoon at the city. The first will be in the
famihaily known, was held in 3 o'clock. morning at 11 o'clock, and the
- - -: -- rrr-r 1 , second at 3 o'clock in the after-
A.tv.,.?,;.- jioon. He will make Lstili
STORE YOUI? GRAIN
g Heights his starting and land
ing place, and no one will be al
lowed entrance to the place.
IN A
4-i.
4
n
ll
P.
h
it
H
)
It
11
fc
?
METAL GRAIN BIN
Rain and Rat Prool
We arc prepared to quote
you attractive prices on
several different makes.
Learn Telegraphy.
Earn from $0)0.00 to $150.00
ppr month. Attend on credit
i and pay us when employed. NO
t$ POSITION, NO PAY. Wabash
t'R. R. wire passes through the
(' college so students have actual
railroad practice. Send for cata
log. Chillicothe Telegraphy College.
101 Monroe St.,
Chillicothe, Mo.
A writer for the Chautauqua
program which has recently
been circulated here, makes the
statement that in 1SG1, Col.
Mulligan robbed the Farmers'
Bank of $900,000. Now, as a
matter of fact, Col. Mulligan
didn't rob the bank at all. On
the approach of Gen. Price he
was made custodian of the fur!
in the Farmers' Bank amounting
to something like $15,000. This
was sent to Warrensburg by Col.
Grover and afterwards returned.
$900,000? There wasn't that
much money in the whole state
of Missouri at that time.
R
Official Vote for Congressman.
Green
Saline
Pettis
Benton
Howard
i Polk
! Hickory
: Lafayette
Aiiss Marguerite Palmer went Total
Hamlin Major
1917 1324
1920 2084
1415 1102
329 298
678 1969
743 411
149 69
1619 1287
'. 8770 8544
Hamlin's majority 226.
LAMBERT LI TIM HER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager.
1
h
960 A. Ford County. Kansas.
Located 4 miles of station on Santa Fe, all level
smooth land, soil deeD, black loam, red clay subsoil,
shallow water, farm fenced with fair improvements,
finely located, surrounded by good whert farms,
220 A. wheat, 100 A. sprintr crops, remainder buffalo
grass meadows. The best of wheat lands, price
$26.25 per A. Good Terms.
320 A.
610 A.
0 A.
610 A.
160 A.
(A
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
!,. t t wiv.t..t-. t V t.ft -tt (V.
to Warrensburg Friday morning
for a visit with her sister, Mrs.
Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Pace re-
Miss Zelpha Owen went to turned to Kansas City Friday
mornine after a visit here at
for a few davs' visit. Hhe home of V. J. C. Bour.
Miss Olivia Bartels went to Miss Irene and Bessie ucuroye
Kansas City Friday morning to jof Sedalia arrived Thursday for
spend the day. a visit here at the home of Wm.
John Aull spent Friday in F. Neet.
Kansas City on business. Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Shirley ar-
I n-:n: ci.: i i tt , TTi-i.lur frnm Pnlnmhin. tn
City Friday to spend the day on visit Mrs. Shirley s parents, Air.
business.
Miss Marguerite Davis went to
Kansas City Friday for a visit.
and Mrs. Henry Keller.
Miss Maude Hagood spent Sun
day in Higginsvi'.le.
Located Northwest Dodge City, 7 miles surrounded
by as well improved wheat farms as Kansas has,
finely located, school on farm, shallow water, 100 A.
good alfalfa land, soil deep, black loam, red clay sub
soil, 280 A. wheat, making more than 60OO bushels.
Price $40.00 per A. One cannot go amiss in buying
this farm.
Located 4 miles of Wright on Santa Fe. good im
provements, surrounded by good wheat farms,
school on farm, finely located. 480 A. l.-v l. smooth
land, rich and productive. 100 A. pasture land with
living water, 320 A. wheat, remainder in spring
crons and Pasture. Price $22,500.00. Good Terms.
Located South of Dodge City 5 miles, soil deep,
black, sandy loam, red clay subsoil, good improve
ments, surroundings and location among the best,
a perfect half section of land. 210 A. wheat, remain
der in pasture and spring crops. Price $ 15.00 per A.
Terms.
Located South of Dodge City 6 miles, soil deep, black.
sandy loam, red clay subsoil, good improvements,
shallow water, finely surrounded and located. 420 A.
wheat, remainder in spring crops and pasture. Price
$43.50 per A. Terms.
Located 2 miles of Dodge City, close to St. Mary's
College, fine surroundines. fine location, soil deep,
black loam, red clay subsoil, a perfect quarter sec
tion of land. 80 A. wheat, remainder spring crops
and pasture. No other improvements. Price $35.00
per A. Terms.
128 A.
Located South of Dodge City in the Artisian valley,
smooth, level land, soil extraordinary sandy loam,
red clay, subsoil, fine wheat and alfalfa farms, sur
rounding, well located. 110 A. wheat, making more
than 20 bu. per A. No other improvements. Price
S30.00 per A. One of the best investments in Ford
County.
To the People of Lafayette County and Surrounding Terri
tory: We hope and trust that all of you will read our little ad
on Ford County, Kansas, and may you become interested
and come and live with us. Ford County is the loading
wheat, alfalfa, grain and live stock county in the state.
Cereals of most all kind, such as field corn, oats, barley,
Kaffir corn, milo maise and sorghum are raised and produced
in Ford County, averaging in good crops with the Central
Western States. Come see us, write us, tell us your wants,
your interest is our .interest.
MOSES T. DANTA,
Dodge City, Kansas.
