bthtt'busy. TheVerchantKhoUehM film I vCSfcSbjHKy s. fcs. xfcs. y Ex cry .tore ha. some one who U 111
urn to Pitch homghoes In the ard IK I I lt IT N& JfcSEMKSe-- lliSv l. lll Tl lli n,ore or ,eM 'ntM,ei1 ,n Puhln th !
w of his store, or to go visiting ill VII ILlL rPwBKOf t-W, II II I I business. Every huMness I. worthy lfH
.Jout the neighborhood In business TOS IL I I VEf&&BGgft dB-1) y II I II to a greater or ! extent of b.ng lfl
Jours, may make quite a reputation y 1&!S &tt092y Sk'lk' i enlarged. If the right person gets th. i
for geniality but. when It comes to a ' S 'u uy " "tZTS ST T F business Iti hnml and puhe In th JflM
mtter of business ability, he will rv-M ITitAMV DCDIIDI IAM right way he can make of that busl- IfH
Probably be unable to deliver the POLITICALLY. REPUBLICAN. new a xery dec .led enlargement and H
1 The moral Is ADVEUTiqp I'm.r. . o . . .. . . make for himself a ery marked atl- tVH
tood. i no mora( is auv.ktise. entered as Second-ClaM Mstter. June 4 191S. at the Postofflce at I'rlie. Ctah. fnder the Act of March 3. jlS79 vantage (HH
VOLl'MEg; Nl'MBEH 11 EVERY FRIDAY AUGUST 11, 1916 Mm
" . T - JHH
CATTLE CLOSED I
A LITTLE HIGHER!
ttiiiLi' mh:i:i' ii.ui: Muii:itTi:
ittv roit i:i:k.
irong Demand I'rnni lt-ct 1 1 Kilter
ami IVeihr llii)cr. Coupled With
ltcilniiil Itivclpt Is Iht 'nii
Miecp. IjiiiiIc mid Hog llrlng (khhI
I'rlcc unit Mill In ( Higher.
Th fun Hpcilal Service
KANSAS 1'ITY. Mi... Aug 7 'at
tit , ed last week lMnt-flc tit
forty trnl" higher than Momlii), due
to ftrong demand from both killers
,dJ fcrdir huore. coupled with re
du f J receipts. The ml vail' In price
fulfil t dislodge more thnn n tiiirrual
run for toda), 19,000 head arriving,
tnJ the tuiirkvt ruled ideml) to ten
len.s higher Until cotinlr) hucrs
nJ range shlppern are plnlng a
sailing game and the result will no
iloult he a good strong markit all
fill The bent winter fed rattle
grat'il ehue April In Kansas, sold to.
ixy At $7,76 to IS. KO. A good allure
of the supply Ik made up of medium
to i inunon grass cattle, at IC.fio to
J7 to, Including etnekers Mini feeders
it about the same range, low a mid
Illinois buyers are coming here now
In larger number.
8heep receipts were only four thou
Mill head here toda), following a
moderate run last week. Packer
luvrr are confronted with a semi
ftmlne euppl). and there Is a hthiii
b! for an) thing good to eholee. Hit
rirs of tight weight Utah lamb ame
In toda) three cars weighing CI
pounds average at 1 1. It, with 173
fcilhig lambs out at If. SO. tt pounds
r.itr and three cars CI poumls at
III 00, with SSN feeders out at 19 It.
!l pounds average. Choice liimliM of
letter vv-lghlM would go a iiuarter
hlhcr than these, Competition was
O keen that one packer got left out
tntirH) and hail to buy the feeder
limbs thrown out of these sltlpminls,
it the prices mimed, feeder buy em
having bid 19.38 and 19.56 fur them.
Arliona Is shipping lightly, and iin
I've territory Is show lug a dig short
llreedlng ewes continue to nil
lanT a little, choice Muck fine ewes
sighing 103 pounds going at IH.2S
recently, other breeders ranging from
1100 to 9 IS, feeding ewes around
11.00
Hog receipts were twelve thousand
tviay. market rive to ten lents high
tt The market has made a good aiU
vnc since the middle of last week,
nil a feature Interesting to Western
nipper Is that light weights now
l'J In price, hogs weighing under
two hundred pounds soiling at the top
.rlcr lodu), $9.86, ten cents above
ny other Missouri river market to
cV and highest price ever paid here
In August .Medium weights brought
IM0, heavy hogs 19.76. bulk 19.60 to
mo
COMMISSIONERSIN SESSION
T U-y Tor Count) Is .Made Oilier
IIuxIucm.
The Imiird of county rommlivloncr
mt't In regular seiwlou Tuesduy, the
Mh, I'reeent Htmrp and llryner, absent
llimlllon. At this meeting the com
mlMlunrrs fixed the tax levy for Car
bon county for the year 1910 a fol
lows Mills
Tar ((unity general purposes l.S
IVe, malntenanco and relief of
intllgsnl Hor, ntherwliut de-
Pendent poor 3
County liond Interest 1
I'Ayment of judgments- against
i the c Hint) I
fuunty school purpose 6.7
fUite roads 1.6
frme, state school and Mtato high
i.hoo t,t
Jtinge horse and oultle t .
I.inge sheep ami gimU a provld-
"I by law 6.
'vies for cities and towns
I'rue city 9.
W lllnglou town i.
P ifleld tuwi t
llluwatha town 1.6
Mr Mury ilnsparek, Indlgunt poor,
allowed ten dollar per month,
'' (Inning the 1st of August.
Ine clrk was uuthorlied to draw
currant In the amount of l3Ci,ii:'
"'' In the Judgment fund and aiply
'1 the Judgment of N. H. Nellson. Al-
a warrant In favor of Price Com
"""riial ami Having bank for U30.75
'" Kiiinty fair expftnst. In 1916,
M the request of seventy-four pe
"nrrs of Htandardvllle asking that u
Ming precinct le created ut that
I'Uu it was mi ordered by the board
j"a v U Ijimph was appointed rug
I'tratlon ugent of the new district.
Tow Eastern Utah Telephone, com-
wnH asked to remove the ex
nange from tho court house and op
rate the court house system from the
'"am central office down town,
" m
A I), Maclean of the I'nlted State
;i"J lompany will leave about the
th for Halt Iiko City to enter the
J'aining camp, taking special training
" first aid work. The United States
tlJf eompan) Is minding two men, the
'her living Mr. Oucuuence. who will
Ws special training In aeroplane
'rk The vtali Fuel company Is
HJlng fv men for training In first
J work
i!j?-j.s!!l-iri!."0IN MY DUTY BY Y0U ARE Y0U D0ING As MUCH BY ME?'
PLATFORM ADOPTED BY DEPDBLICANS
AT THE STATE GQNVENJION IN OGDEN
The report of the resolutions com
inlttee or the slate convention which
was adopted as the platform follows
The republli an party of I tali In
state convention iiMembled Indorses
the nutlounl platform adopted at the
Chicago convention mid the nomina
tion made by that convention of
Charles E. Hughes of New York for
president and Charles W. I'alrlKink
of Indiana for vice president, nnd In
addition to the national platform de
clare as follows
I 'or (imhI UimiiN.
We commend the administration of
flov. William Hpry for the wise ex
penditure of public funds In building
our magnificent state capltol, and for
the splendid road being constructed
throughout our stale, and we pledge
our Incoming governor and legisla
ture to wisely, economlcall) and ener
getically continue the good work to
the end that ultimately every county
a ml hamlet In our state shall be con
netted by good roads with Wfry othtr
part of the stute
"llry" laiw Pledged.
We pledge the Incoming governor
and legislative askrmhly. If republican,
to promptly, mul not less than fifteen
du)s before the close of the next ses
sion of the legislature, enait a law
effective!) prohibiting by direct legis
lation the manufacture and the sale,
by prescriptions or otherwise, of In
toxicating liquors of ull kind within
the stute of Utah, a taw which shall
be thoroughgoing, unambiguous and
im InuupitM of evasion n language
can make It; and that suld law go Into
effect within six months after Its
passage
Vutloual Prohibition.
We also pledge our candldata for
the United Htate senate to favor by
Ills vote and In every other way pos
sible every measure that slmll he In
troduted b) congress for the elimina
tion of the lliUor traffic and for the
securing of natlonul prohibition.
Workman's Coiiim'iiiiIiiii,
Wo favor the enactment of a torn
prehutislve workman's compensation
law providing a liberal schedule of
payment for death and Injury result
ing from accident to employe or all
kinds, w hether stute, municipal or
prlvute.
Woninii Suffrage.
Wo favor the prompt submission by
congrco and ratification by the neo
essury number or states of the pro
posed constitutional amendment In
troduced by Senntor Kutherlnnd, con
ferring the electho franohlse on wo
men, and In that connection we es
pecially congratulate the republican
nomine- for president, Churles E.
Hughes, on his emphatic anil un
equivocal approval of thl proposed
amendment.
Itccojtiiltloii I'or Women.
Wo pledge the republican party to
provide proper recognition of women
by appointment on all state boards
u ml commission not Incompatible
with women's work.
Public Utlllllet.
We fuvor the creation of a public
utilities (ommUslon and we pledge
our part) to put on the statute books
of this state iU the next session of the
legislature adequate law for the cur
rying out of the provisions of Hecllon
IS or Article 13 of the Constitution,
relative to the establishment of rea
sonable maximum rates of charge for
the transportation of pueitgers and
freight, for lorreetlng abuses and pre
venting discrimination and extortion
In rates b all common curriers,
.ntM'ii-. laiw.
The constitution and stutute of
our slate provide adequate mileage
for traveling expenses of public offi
cers of our stute, and In line with leg
islation by a republican congres and
Nllevlng that wholesome legislation
Is hampered nnd endangered by the
s)stem In vogue of giving pusses to
public orflclals, we pledge our legis
lature and governor to pas an ade
quate nnll-puss measure for the cor
rection of this evil,
Prntcttlou of Worker.
We pledge the republican part) to
the enactment of such legislation a
muy lie necessary to secure to the
worker the legal right of voluntary
association, for mutual protettlon nnd
welfare, protecting their right ag
ainst unwarrantable Issuance or
writs or Injunction,
lndiitr!al Protection.
We fuvor the enactment of legisla
tion calculated to secure the saftty,
conservation and protection of lulior
from the dangers Incident to Industry
und Irannportatlou.
I'or Eight-Hour l-uw,
We demand the faithful observance
and enforcement of the eight-hour
law In mines, mills and smelter us
well ns on all public works. We pledge
the republican eirt to the enactment
of a law giving to the workers of this
state "one day's rest III seven."
'omml.lniicr of l-nlwir.
If elected to mwer we pledge the
republican party to the broadening of
the law creating the office of labor
and ststlstii with such additional
power ns the general welfare may de
mil ml.
Aguln-t Sm-)Iu Tuxcn.
' We disapprove the democratic pol
io) In time of peuce of taxation upon
spaclal articles. A tariff law con
structed In accordance with republi
can prlnulple would produce, ns It
has njwa) produced, under repub
lican administration, sufficient rev
enue to carry on the operations of the
government without resort to vexa
tlou taxation such n that contained
i In tha'socalled emergency revenue act.
School and Politic,
We believe that the public schools
of the state should be kept entlrel)
free from partisan politic and to
that end we favor the non-partisan
selection of the state NUpurlntendellt
i of public Instruction.,
Mate Water loivv Supreme.
We denounce the attempt of the
democratic administration to Inter
fere with and abridge the Just rights
of the settlers upon the former I'lu
tali Indian reservation to the use and
control of the water wlilih they have
apptoprlated for Irrigation, nnd we
declare that in the matter of the ap
propriation and Use of these water
within the state, the state law Is su
preme, Ooncmlilp of Home.
The home brings to Its owner no In
come Vet the safety and perpetuity
of every republic I guaranteed where
the people own their own home nnd
Is undermined where the burden of
taxation I so great a to threaten the
ownership of the home by those of
moderate mean. We therefore pledge
our governor and legislature to thf
enactment of such law on taxation
as shall encourage the ownership jiy
the people of their homes and smalt
farms,
CRAND BENEFIT CARNIVAL
I'iMltal to llulae I'linds For Com
pletion of tlio Tuhernacle.
At u mtetlng refiill called by
lllshbp Allert llryner, a big commun
ity movement was sturtrd to raise
funds for the lompletlon of Carbon
stake tabernacle In Price, Thl com
munity mnvemcn.1 uu considered the
best way to raise mniieVf us the public
will receive (greater h-tneflt, than by
being iiskedfor contributions. The
fiirnlvul-festlviU-vvlII be similar to the
one staged nt the tabernacle Nome
months ugo and will be held during
the third week In Heptember, com
mencing Tuesjlay, the mtti, and last
ing the weekout7
The MutuarImprovcmcnt associa
tions have been nllotted the booth for
confections, lie cream and mellous;
Kunduy sthuol, the fish pond; relief
society, domestic arts, nnd primary
association, luncheons. The mer
chant will be usked to londuct a spe
cial sales week nnd Invitations will be
extended nnd excursion will be ar
ranged for lietween ull or the outl
Ing towns and Price during the car
nival week. Every good elllien should
be willing and ready to lend enthus
iasm to this very benefit cut purpose
of the curnlvnl.
Mis (Ilennit (lundersou. who wu
electi d qui en of the previous mrul
Mil, will ait us queen, opening the
greut curnlvnl with an upprnprlute
'ceieinouy. and another queen will be
voted for during the week. Very sub
stantial entertainment each night will
be staged, and of such variety that
the public Is promised the best ever
given In Price. Alt kind of refresh
ments and dainties will be served us
I well as fancy work sold and domestic
art dlsplu)ed. Elaborate arrange
ments are being made for appropriate
iliooths. Dancing will be one of the
I chief attraction every evening.
Thirty to fort) minutes will be giv
en euch evening to stuge performance
I In vulidevllle und farce comedy acts
of musical nnd dramatic class. The
I following committee nre appointed
to conduct the carnival
! Ex-Wflcln lilshop lirner. o. T,
I Harmon and II- Oumoii.
1 Oeneral Or. II. 15. CloWard. Harah
J. Powell. Dr. 11. II. (loetimann, Mr.
J. P. MuKnlght, Mr. Olive Mlllburn,
William Dow nurd. J. P. McKnlght,
secretary and treasurer.
Program Pr. H. II. Ooetxmann. J.
I. McKnlght. Mr. Olive Mlllburn.
Mis Mattle Htrong und Mis Inex
Kooll.
Advertising J. P. McKnlght, Wil
liam Dowitard. lilshop Itryner. lieu
lleau, Orson Oumcn and Oeorge
Jorgemeti
MORRIS REATS SPRY 1
FOR THE NOMINATION j
Takes Three Ballots To Determine Choice :,'
United States Senator George Sutherland Is ',
Renominated in One Sided Contest Justice ,H
D. N. Straup Given Place on Ticket By i'M
Acclamation Other Candidates. il
I
I - iH
REPUBLICAN TICKET .1
For United States Senator GEORGE SUTIIBR. f!
LAND. t.;
For Supreme Court Justice I). N. STItAUT. ;iji
For Governor Ni: I'll I L. MORRIS. lijfl
For Secretary of State LINCOLN (J. KELLY. f H
For Attorney General II AHOLD !'. FAHIAN. ''il
For Auditor-IOSEIMI JENSEN. IB
For TrcaHurcr DAVID II. MADSEN. j 4jjl
For Superintendent of Public Instruction E. G. I r J
COWANS. fl
Presidential Electors DAVID JENSEN, A. R. i LH
IIAWLEY. THOMAS SMART. ORRIN SEELY H
For ConKressman, First District TIMOTHY C. Uttfl
HOYT. ,
For ConKrcflsman, Second District CHARLES , "Hal
R. MAREY. . iifl
r KmI
Ncphi L. Morris received tho republican nomination for Rover- -'HH
nor on the third ballot last Tuesday evening in tho state conven- '11
tion at Ojfdcn. He was nominated with only two-thirds of a vote util
more than the number required to make him the choice. Follow- llf'l
intr the final count a motion carried to make the nomination unnn- lKiH
imotiH, but there were many dissenting votes from the Spry dele- 'SkIH
Kates. The fiht for the Kubcrnntorial nomination was the moat lllll
spectacular of the day nnd was bitterly contested by the three vlCI
leadiiiK candidates. With the announcement of the victory for 'xffH
Morris the forces cooled down nnd the successful candidate was fij
conKrntuIated on nil sides. In n statement Wednesday Coventor 11
Spry says he will stand by tho decision of the convention. 1 11
Morris led by a substantial marKin on the first ballot and Kain- ' tl
etl considcmble support from different counties, including Salt
I-ake, on the succecditiK two. Gov. William Spry, the second can- fi 11
didnte, also Kained in the second, but lost somewhat in the third. i; H
The final ballot kuvc 1 2-U for Morris ami 188 for Spry. E. E. ( jH
Jenkins was Riven GO 1-2 votes in thy first count, and only 42 1-2 A M
en the third. '
AlthouRh seven candidates were placed In nomination it was ) jH
evident early In the day that the fiffht was between Morris and I M
Spry, nnd that while the other candidates would be supported to Hl
some extent, tho governor was actually pitted nffninst the field. !
On the second ballot .'(9 1-6 votes for the other candidatcs.went to wtk
Morris nnd two to Spry. On the final count sufficient more went tD
to the leaders to win the nomination, the governor's vote dropping i " VH
from 199 1-2 to 188. h iM
To the surprlso of sponsors of E. E. Jenkins, ns well as of prac- iflll
tically everybody else at the convention, thnt enndidnte received a 'ISI
maximum on the first ballot of only about one-fourth as many ,!Msl
votes as Morris, and one-thlrd us many as Spry. L. R. Anderson ' MnHi
of Mnnti, Oscar W. Carlson, John C. Matkay and D. O. Hideout of tt H
Salt Ijike county remnlned in the race through the three ballots, 1 1 H
Anderson gaining and the others losing strength. lu HI
On the first ballot Morris received 216 2-JJ votes against 197j H H
for Sprj', G9is for Jenkins, 49 for Anderson, 20 for Carlson, 20 for 1 H
Mackay and W for Hideout. Tho second count gave Morris J, ,H
28GV4, Spry 199VC., Jenkins 52, Anderson 42, Carlson 22, Mackay M
17, and Hideout 4 1-.1. lH
On the final ballot the totals were as follows: Morris .'US 2-3, ; IH
Spry 188, Jenkins 42j, Anderson G2, Carlson 13, Mackay 11 fit IH
and Rideout 4 1-3, On the first ballot 615 G-6 votes were cast; on fj fH
the second 622 5-6, and on the third 625, the total number provid- IH IH
cd in the apportionment. jli'll
George Sutherland was renominated as United States Senator, f j IH
the Imlot KlWnK him C51I Notes ag
ainst 71 S.6 for O. fl. ArmstroiKf. the
only other eandldate Senator Suth
erland Mas plueed In nomination by
JudKe W. II Dleksou. W. If. 1'ollund
of Salt l-uke placed Judge Armstront:
In nomination.
Justice I). N. Slraup was named hy
neelamatlon for reuomlnatlon to the
supreme henvh. He was placed In
nomination Uy I'. T. Karon worth, and
Moses C. I)uIh made a motion to sus
pend the rules and nonilnute liy ne
elamatlon. There ivim no other can
didate. The tomuntton nso nomlniited Liu
clon O. "Kelly for secretary of state.
Ilurold l'ubluu for attorney ffen
era), Joseph Jensen of Ilox Klder S
county for state auditor, David 11. Ir rH
Madsen of Utah county for state trea- g f 0
surer, K, O, Clow an for superintend- m f
ent of public Instruction, and luld m fM
Jenaeu, Thomas Smart, A. It. Jluwley H JsH
and Orrln Seel) for presidential eleo- a jH
tors, W H
(iulieruutorlul right, wlihl
I'rom the time the Halt take county nall
cuueus was called to order In the pOTH
iiiornlnK until the final results of the fhnl
third ballot for goernor was un- UMH
nnunced, the fight centtred In the fHIH
gulierualurlal noinluatlon. Thrgugh. IhlH
out the entire proceedings fenllinr rail l9H
(Continued on page eight,) BffflHH
