FOLTON
OUMfY
ff.TMl
SOUTH BUSINESS
Auditor, County
VOL XXXIII NO 18
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY AUGUST 11, 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
PRIMARY ELECTION
Good Vote Out Over The County Contests For County
Offices-Uerrick and Willis . Receive. Strong En
dorsement -from -Republican Voters Pike
and York Townships. Hold Local Option
.' Elections and Go Dry"
The weather wag fine and the inter- 1 men are nominated by magnificent
est seemed general over the ' County majorities.
and as well over the entire State lastl 'For Lieutenant Governor Arnold
Tuesday. The Republicans were out received 977 votes and Agler 715 votes
In good strength, for a Primary and in the county.
they have nominated a ticket both in! .There was no opposition to Secre
the county and state that spellsvictory 1 tary of State Hildebrandt for second
for the Republican party next Novem- term and he received losu votes.
ber.
The fact that there were several
contests on for county offices on the
Kepublican ticket to say nothing of
the contests for members pf the coun
ty central committee in several
of the - precincts brought 'out a good
vote. There was a warm' eon
test for county commissioners . but
Adams led in the county for Auditor
of State with 474. Archer for State
Treasurer, second term, 1580. Turner
for 'Attorney General, second term,
1710. The "high men" for judges of
the Supreme court were Joyce with
79$ and Newby with 428 votes each.
Judge -Brough received 1415 votes in
the county as candidate for Judge of
Aumend of Pike, Edgar of Roy alton t the Court of Appeals.
and . E. Spring of Dover were the The Republicans of the county gave
winners. The fignt for sheriff ended Congressman N. E. Matthews a splen
in a victory for Boone. Represents- did endorsement in the shape of 1650
tive and Surveyor with two candidates, votes and this may be taken as an
for each office one in each instance to , ernest of their loyalty to him at the
contest third term candidates was i general election ia November. .
close enough to be fairly interesting (or State Central .Committeeman
for the sentiment against the third O. W. Kerns led over. StaufTer in the
term program dies hard in the Repub- .county, with a vote of 1037; Stauffer's
lienn party; although its been dead vote being 61C. Late advices indicate
and buried in the Democratic party that Kerns has been elected to this
in Fulton county "lo, these many .position by the Republicans of the
years." However a good record fordistrict by a jnajority of, 1400 over
efficient and faithful service proved Tgtauffer.
a valuable asset to the "third termers"- ' The figures in the foregoing are
Tuesday; Reighard for Represents- unofficial but are taken irom the un
tive and Castle for Surveyor were ! official wport of the Board .of Deputy
placed an the party ticket by a sub-; state Supervisors of Elections for
stantial majority of the Republican Fulton county to the Secretary of
votars. 1 State and the changes if any, will be
Stahl lor second term as prosecux-- immaterial.
in if attorney had some lively opposi
tion but made the "riffle" in good
shape.
A. M. Barber for Probate Judge re
in Pike and in York townships Lo
cal Option Elections were held in con
nection with the Primaries resulting
in Sleeping victories for the "Drys.
eeived the largest vote cast for any of jn pjke 147 votes were cast; 133 dry
the candidates for county office: 1802 an(i 34 wet. in York 213 votes on
fly t less than for Governor Willis. , this question were cast in the two pre-
Mr. Barber could have received no
,hifher compliment from the Republi
cans of the county nor a more pron
ounced demonstration of their confi
dence in his ability and integrity. G.
cincts; 168 dry and 45 wet.
.Early reports indicate that the
Democrats have nominated James M.
Cox for Governor and Atlee Pomer
n fnr United States Senator. In
Scott Roos came second in the vote 1 puit0n county they will have a full
wmcn nominaiea mm mr me bbi-uuu COuntv ticket in the field: Dy next
term as county treasurer, receiving weeit tne dust" of the primaries will
1S33 votes. . 'J be cleared away and "Who is Who" in
The contests all seemed to be of tne -Rattle of the Ballots" next No-
the "good natured" variety (not de-'vemt,er w;u toe definitely known. Both
natured") and there was. no political gjdea have selected good adh able
mud-slinging. There was some sigh- 'jlnen M their .tandard bearers and the
ing on the part of old timers through 1 cotest ia bound to be both absorbing
. the county for the "good old days -jan1 interesting and we Americans are
of county conventions but alter all going to demonstrate to the world one
W9 uvea larougn 11 iiu uiv tvh
of the county certainly demonstrated
their loyal citizenship and public
spirit by participating in the primary.
On the State ticket the Republicans
of Fulton came out strong for Frank Nation,
B. WUiis jo uovernor witn a loiai ti
1866. Mack secured 121 votes in the
countv and Shaw 86. For United
DISTRICT SUNDAY SCHOOL
AND MINISTERIAL MEETING
Northwestern Ohio.
To be held in the Dunkard Church
one mile north and three miles west
of Wauseon or three miles north and
one mile east of Pettisville, Ohio, Au
gust 15, 16, 17, 1916.
The people of this and adjoining
vicinities seldom if ever had such a
splendid opportunity of hearing as
excellent speakers as will give ad
dresses during this meeting. Each
speaker is well qualified to ably de
liver their address and you can't afford
to miss these services, some of the
most distinguished speakers are: S.
P. Berkebile, former missionary to
India; Edward Knitner, Professor of
Manchester College, North Manches
ter, Indiana; A. L. and Elsie Sellers of
Bryan, Missionaries to Indian, will
sail this fall; G. A. Snider of Lima,
noted temperance speaker and C. A.
Wright of North Manchester, Indiana
Mr. Wright won the Indiana State
Championship in a lecture on "Peace
and won the second prize of the U. S.
on the same subject. You can't af
ford to miss hearing him. Following
is the program:
PROGRAM
Tuesday Evening
Address "Efficiency"
. ..... . . 4 Edw. Kintner
Wednesday Morning
Devotional . and Organization.
"The Sunday School in Incen
tive to Bible Study and Devotion."
John Flory
Discussion.
10:00 "The Teacher's Obligation to
His Class." Blanche Byerly
Discussion.
10:25 "How to Reach the Goal to
Win Souls." S. P. Berkebile
Afternoon
1:15 Devotional.
1:30 "How to Make the Sunday
School Go." Mary L. Cook, Dist.
S. S. Sec.
2:15 "Missionary Enthusiasm in
the Sunday School." A. L. Sellers
Christian Worker's Hour.
3:00 "Worship in Song Service"
. Elsie Sellers
3:15 , "Helping the Sin Sick"
. . . . : Lela Moyer
3:30 "Other Avenues for Service."
David Byerly
Discussion.
6:00 Conference of Aid
Workers." Conducted by
TUX PAYERS
7:30
.8:15
9:15
Information Relative To Increases by
Boards of Revision and To Com
plaints, From The Tax Commission'
era of Ohio Complaints Must be
Filed by September Sixth.
Society
Leo L.
Wise
of. the biggest. "Bloodless Battles of
Peace ' that .it has lever witnessed:
From the Tribune's point of view the
result is going to be a sweeping; Re
publican victory in County, State and
ANNOUNCEMENT.
Owing to having had my name used
States Senator Myron T. Herri ck out-1 without my knowledge I desire to in-
distanced all 'other contestants lor j form by patrons and others that 1
the senatorial toga in Fulton county, am working independently and will
with a vote of lzuU. Harry uaugn- not at any future time be connected
erty had 340 votes in the county; Dick ! with strangers who may be. taking
204, Cassel 138 and Harry Probasco
17. We learn from the daily papers
of the state that the endorsement re
ceived by Governor'Willis and Mr.
. " Herrick in Fulton is typical of all the
other counties in the state and these
0 You Circus Day
subscriptions for magazines.
Tribune Advertising
Best Results-
Gets The
7:30 Temperance Program:
- Temperance Reading
Vera Ingle
Temperance Song Bryan Choir
Address "Temperance Edu
cation." G. A. Snider
Song
Ministerial Meeting
Thursday Forenoon
8:00 Devotional and Organization.
8:45 "The Call of the Ministry the
Work of the Holy Spirit."
J. L. Guthrie
Discussion.
9:25 "Duties of the Pastor to the
Congregation." N. K. McKimmy
9:50 "Duties of the Congregation to
the Pastor." J.-L. Weaver
Discussion.
10:40 "In Conducting Our Services
Should We Be Governed by Cus
tom or the Needs of the Occas
ion." D. P. Weller
Discussion.
Afternoon
"Peace" C. A. Wright
"The Call of the Chinese."
E. S. Moyer
"Gem Thoughts of this Meet
ing."
Standard time will be used.
Meals will be served on grounds at
small cost. Come and stay all day.'
1:30
2:15
3:00
Money to loan on farms. Privilege
paying any time. G. W. and W. L.
Griffin, Fayette, Ohio. 16-tf
For the purpose of removing mis
understandings and for the informa
tion of tax payers who feel aggriev
ed over increases of valuations and
who desire to know how to conserve
their rights, the State Tax Commis
sion issues the following statement: '
The State Tax Commission has en
deavored to see to it that tax pay
ers should be advised of increases of
returns and to afford everv onoortun-
ity for redress of wrongful increases.-
" nas gone turther in this direction
this year than has ever before been
the case, under either the Warnes
Law in 1915 and 1914 or the preced
ing period. This year notices of in
crease in returns of personal proper
ty have been given out by the local
tax authorities under orders from the
State Commission; whereas formerly
the practice was not to give any such
notice.
On May 26th, 1916, the State Tax
Commission issued a circular ' to
county .Jboards of revision, this cir
cular having been approved by the
Attorney General. In substance the
circular was as follows :
At the June session valuations of
real estate should not be increased
or decreased, unless there has been
an appraisal this year. Boards of
revision are not required, under the
law, to give individual notice in cases
of increase of valuations of personal
property, the only notice required,
under the law, being the newspaper,
publication of the completion of the
tax list by the county auditor when
the June session of the board is com
pleted, and the issuance of pamphlets
by the county auditor as to changes
in the valuations of real estate.
On June 1st, 1916, another circular
of instruction was sent to boards of
revision in which was the following:
"You are advised that wherever
practicable you should give to per
sons or corporations whose returns
you propose to increase an opportun
ity to be heard, although it is not
obligatory at this state of the admin
istration of the. law, as a remedy for
excessive or improper valuation by
the assessors or your board is provid
ed by subsequent proceedings before
you as a board of complaints and by
a final appeal to this Commission."
On June ' 12th the Commission is
sued still . further instructions to
boards of revision, going into details
as to the duties and powers of the
board in regard to valuations, the
following being among the instructions:
"The board at its June session is
required to examine all returns turn
ed over to it by the county auditor
and may increase or decrease the
value of any item in any such return,
or add thereto any property which
has been omitted and fix the value
thereof. . For this purpose the board
may call persons before- iff and re-:
quire them to testify as to their own
, property or that of others." .
I "At its June session no notice to
j property owners is required other
than that which the auditor is requir
to give by publication under section
5606. The Commission suggests,
however, that property owners be ad
vised by mail of any increase in value
so as to avoid dissatisfaction.".
In addition to the formal and gen
eral instructions indicated above, the
State Commission has invariably ad
vised county boards of revision, when
specific inquiries have been made by
these bodies, to use every endeavor to
notify tax payers of proposed in
creases, notwithstanding that the only
legal notice required is that given by
the county auditor in the newspaper
advertisement and in the issuance of
pamphlets giving changes m valua
tions of real estate.
The State Commission realizes that,
as a rule, it has been quite impracti.
cable for boards of revision at the
June session to cite tax payers before
them; but it should1 be remembered
that there is no requirement under
the law that this should be done. It
should also be remembered that it is
the bounden duty of boards of re
vision, at its June session, to list all
omitted property and to add on listed
property any increases which, in their
judgment, are proper, so that the as
sessments or the appraisals shall re
present the true value in money. The
theory of the law is and it has been
always so that owners of personal
property should go to the auditor s of
fice to examine the tax lists and not
depend upon individual notification o'f
increases, the only notice required
under the law being the newspaper
publication of the completion of the
tax lists. So far as the Tax Commis
sion is' advised, boards of revision
have conformed to the instructions
of the State Tax Commission.
; Tax payers who desire to file com
plaints as to values set either on per
sonal or real property should apply
to the county auditor tor blanks.
Complaints must be filed on or before
September 6th, 1916. Complaints
must be confined to valuations this
year.
KNOTTYJBOBLEIUIS
For City Councilmen to Solve Long
Session and Warm Weather
Threshing Engines Unwelcome
Who Pays The Fiddler.
S. O. S.
The ship is still many miles at sea,
but all conditions are favorable, and
there is every prospect of making a
record-breaking voyage. Suddenly
there is a shock. Later it is found
that she has struck a mass of ice. At
first it is thought that there is no
danger, but soon the ship begins to
sink. Unless help comes, hundreds of
lives will be lost. The wireless sends
but this call: S. O. S. Other vessels
bear the call, and steam at full speed
to the rescue. Should a ship disre
gard this call, from the world it would
receive the greatest contempt and
condemnation.
S. O. S. is the name of the program
for next Sunday at the Congregational
Sunday School. What this will be we
will not reveal here, but it is bound to
be interesting, to put it mildly. We
are anticipating one of the best pro
grams of the summer. Come out and
hear it. The time passes quickly, and
yOu soon forget the heat. Wj start
at 9:30, ;
i' WEATHER FORECAST.
Forecast for the week beginning
Sunday, August 6, 1916.
Ohio Valley and Tennessee The
week will be one of generally fair and
warm weather, except that local
thundershowers are probable during
the latter half of the week. , ,v
Region of the Great Lakes Local
thundershowers at the beginning of
the week will be followed by general
ly fair weather until near its close,
when thundershowers are again pro
bable. Temperature will average
above the normal during the week.
f " CARD OF THANKS
We . wish to express our sincere
thanks for the flowers, kindnesses and
sympathy shown us by neighbors and
friends during the sickness and death
of our beloved sister, Mrs. Mary
Metzler, also for the singing of Mr.
and Mrs. Gorsuch and the words of
Rev. J. A. Wharton.
Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Arnold
Try an advertisement in The Trib
une and note the results.
It seems like cruelty to well,
councilmen, to bring up questions that
are as hard to answer as an ' elm
knot is to split, on such warm even
ings as was last Monday, but it has
to be done, and the patient solons
have to take it and it may be said to
the honor and credit of these same
"solons" that they came to the test
cheerfully and did their best.
The council meeting was called to
order by president Howard who was
soon relieved by Mayor Hoy, all mem
oers of the council were present. Min
utes of the last regular meeting were
read and approved. The matter of
sewer on Shoop avenue between Leg
gett and Cherry streets for new resi
aences under construction on that
block, was taken, up but it was found
that no new sewers could be officially
planned or sanctioned by the council
until the plat of the sewer system of
the town which has recently , been
made under the direction of the State
Board of Health is accepted by that
Board, this will not be done until some
time in September. Repair of side
walks in front of Blizzard property
on Fulton street was ordered and the
holes punched in West Leggett street
by the slugs on a threshing machine
engine furnished matter for discussion
and consideration. It is not pleasant
or satisfactory to have paved streets
that have been laid at the expenditure
of goodly sums of the tax payers mon
ey torn up by these engines the con
sensus of opinion seemed to be that
the driving of heavy traction engines
with grippers or slugs or spikes on the
wheels is- prohibited by ordinance on
the paved streets of the village and
that owners and drivers of such en
gines should be notified that they are
not permitted on such streets as are
paved.
The knotiest knot of all that the
council had to deal with was a "band
knot" and there was "music in the air"
for the space of at least an hour while
the council endeavored to unravel it.
Last year one of the councilmen, act
ing unofficially and at the instance of
a number of citizens solicited the busi
ness and professional people of the
town and secured a rather liberal sub
scription for the expenses of a band
this amount together with an appro
priation which the council was able to
make provided very nicely for the
band.
This year no one seemed to remem.
ber how the band was financed last
season, at least there was no one to
solicit the people of the town, the
Council made an appropriation for the
band but no money can be leerallv paid
except for services rendered and now
the band has awakened to the fact
with about six weeks more of time in
which to deliver their open air con-1
certs, the band has uspri nn nrrtiral
)y all of their appropriation though
they had not received upto Monday
night cne dollar of it.- Every citi
zen wants the band it is a matter of
civic pride with many, a business pro
position with others and with others
it is a matter of pleasure and satis
faction. The question before the
Council was how to help the band out
of a tight place and enable them to
continue and at the same time not
over step their legal rights in the
matter. ,
The problem was. finally solved by
allowing the band to place a bill for
service rendered which covers three
ill 'PE ill
P REST I Q E
I II When a check is received bearing
llll the name, "First National Bank", it 11
I II carries with it prestige and the re- J j
I II . cipient knows the maker of the check 11
j HI has sound banking connections. - j I
III In pffermg the services of this bank, j
HI , - we art placing at your disposal bank- I I
I II ing relations that must reflect to your
I ' advantage in all your business I n
I II dealings, which is prestige. I 9
' First National Bank
Tke BANK-BY-MAIL Bask" I
Wauseon, - V - -1 Ohio
months of the appropriation and put
it up to the band to meet au further
expenses with the; remaining one
fourth and such other amount as they
could secure by solicitation from the
business and professional people of
the town.
In a village the size of Wauseon a
successful band depends upon the co
operation of all; business men must
co-operate by giving the time of em
ployees who play in the band for such
playing and by contributing money
for band support. - The council and
citizens must co-operate and the
musicians themselves must co-operate
by making their demands for compen
sation as light as possible and by
faithful attendance at practices and
concerts. There is nothing that does
more to boost a small town than a
good band, but in order to maintain a
band some one must "pay the :fiddler"
it costs money for music, instruments
instruction, unifortns and countless
other things. All working together
we may have a band and a good one.
After passing the usual claim ordi
nance council adjourned.
ANNOUNCEMENT PARTY.
' Mrs. Benton Leslie entertained a
party of .friends last Thursday even
ing at which time the announcement
ot the engagement pf her -sister, Miss
Grace Gould to Mr. Milford Alattison
was made. , - .- -.- ...
The house was beautifully decorat
ed in yellow and white. A two course
luncheon was served and covers were
laid for fourteen. : , The date of - the
marriage was not given. -
To the Republican Voters of Fulton
County:
I desire to thank you at this time
for the liberal support -given me at
the recent Primary.'
W.S.BOONE.
. OFFIGIAbBEPOBT
Condition of Crops August 1st, 1916
Based on , Reports Received From
Regular Crop Correspondents By '
Board of Agriculture of Ohio.
Wauseon's Second Annual
White Wash
SKIRT 5
Biggest Season
Now In
Full Swing
We have just received an
other large shipment of
the newest inventions in
LADIES WniTE SKIRTS
in both regular and extra
large sizes, to supply your
demands ior trie coming
many Holidays and Vaca
tions. In fact this assort
ment is complete enough to
fit every prospective cus
tomer. Prices Range from
$1.25 to $2.50 .
Come in early and make
your selections. Also you
will find it much to your
advantage in the point of
convenience and service by
shopping on one or several
of tne five days of each week
Monday's, Tuesday's, Wed
nesday s, Thursday's or iFri-
Our Prices Like Our Quality
are The Most Popular
Spencer-Edpr-Vollmer
Gompany
Wauseon 'a Exclusive
Dry Goods Store
l(i4f n t
m
t ai (oi
L
Is Coming Aug. 17th to 24th, inclusive
(NO SUNDAY PROGRAM)
One Solid Week of Enjoyment For All Including:
Fint Day; Music M altera Quartet (vocal and instrumental), featuring
the marimbaphone;' brisk and unique musical program in the af
- ternoon; prelude in the evening.
;; Dr; "William A. Colledge, lecturer. Dr. Colledge spent three years
, . exploring "with Henry M. Stanley in Africa, and is a nationally
- famed eduoator; boyhood friend of Robert Louis Stevenson.
Second Day: Maurer Sisters Orchestra, afternoon and evening preludes.
Vocal and instrumental music, whistling and readings. This com
pany recently completed a six week's tour of Panama.
Everett Kemp,' presenting Harold Bell Wright's great story of
"That Printer pf Udell's"; Kemp is widely known as "the man
with the million-dollar laugh."
' Frank Dixon, in a straight-from-the-shoulder community lecture,
"Taking Stock of a Town." Mr. Dixon is a brother of Thomas
. Dixon, Jr., and of Dr. A. C. Dixon.
.Third Day: Giuseppe Bartolotta, Italian tenor, in a matinee recital. Bar
tolotta is a native of Naples, and has sung in concerts with such
'-artists as Paderewski, Kubelik and Melba.
Chaplain O. L." Kiptinger, in a popular afternoon lecture on "The
. , Modern Ideal."
William Owen and Company in Charles Rann Kennedy's great
drama, "The Servant in the House." Entire play presented in
. costume by a cast of capable performers.
Fourth Day: The University Boys, in a musical program of great vari
ety and charm. Hawaiian instrumental music will be featured in
the evening prelude.
Dr. James S. Kirtley, widely known as "the boys' man." Boys
and girls fathers and mothers will -want to hear his vital and en
tertaining talk on "The Barefoot Kingdom."
Montraville Wood, assisted by his daughter, Miss Allene Wood,
in a wonderful demonstration of -the gyroscope, monorail car,
ultra-violet ray and trailing torpedo.
Fifth Day: Pallaria's Band in two concerts afternoon and evening.
Francesco Pallaria began his musical career in Italian conserva
tories, and has directed his present organization in practically every
American city of consequence. In his programs here he is to
feature descriptive music.
Sixth Day: The American Girls, a company of six versatile and talented
young women in a rousing and patriotic musical program; at night
they are to appear in connection with the children's pageant.
Mother Goose Festival, a feature primarily for the children. Un
der the direction of the "story hour girl", nearly 100 local children
are to take part, in costume.
Fredrick W. Maurer, only American survivor of the Stefansson
expedition, in illustrated talk on "A Fight for Life in the Arctic;"
a lecture full of thrills. .
Seventh Day: Thomas Brooks Fletcher, dramatic orator and an Ohio
editor, in an afternoon lecture on a timely topic Mr. Fletcher will
entertain you and set you to thinking.
MISS ALICE NIELSEN, Prima Donna Soprano of the Metropoli
tan and Boston Opera Companies. Her evening concert is to ba
the Chautauqua's concluding feature. Miss Nielsen, frequently re
ferred to as "The American Patti," is to be assisted by .William
Reddick, pianist, and Karl Kirk-Smith, 'cellist.
Single admissions to all of those entertainments, together with morning lectures and children's sessions
amount to almost eight dollars ($8.00), but season tickets may be bought now for two dollars ($2.00) for adults
and one dollar ($1.00) for children. After the Chautauqua's opening they cannot be secured for less than $2;5q
and ;$1.25, respectively. Here's the Moral, BUY NO W !! !
WAUSEOW CHAUTAUQUA AUG. 17th to 24th
. The following report, showing per
centage prospect of crops named is
based upon reports received from .
regular crop correspondents of this
Department 15 bushel -of wheat and
30 bushels of oats per acre represent
ing 100 per cent.
WHEAT -Prospect compared with
normal yield 70 per cent Average
date of harvest July 9. - . ,
OATS Prospect compared with
normal yield 84 per cent. Average
date of harvest July 26.; .
BARLEY Averaee date of harvest
July 12.. -
Kitu Average date of harvest July
11.
CLOVER Acres sown in 1915 cut
for hay 80 per cent. Hay product per
acre 1.6 tons. Quality compared with
f-n average 99 per cent. ' . - . -
.umviiii rrospect -compared
with normal yield 104 per cent. -
ruiATOES Frospect comnared
with normal yield 70 per cent. .
x Uis aouu rrospect compared with
an average 83 per cent. , .
PAisJ. lilitu Condition comnared
with an average 89 per cent. . . .
AJFiUJiiS Prospect compared with
normal yield 55 per cent.
PEACHES Prospect compared
with normal yield 49 per cent.
rjAKS-fc-trosnect compared with
normal yield 44 per cent
(xKAPES Prospect compared with
normal yield 85 per cent
cHiKKIES Product 'compared with.
last year 83 per cent
STATE AVERAGE PRICES
. Per Bushel. .....
Wheat 1.11
Corn .80
Barley .74
Oats ... .44
Rye : .86
Potatoes 1.07
Hay .., ............11.03
Alfalfa , 13.37
The wheat harvest is far -enough al-
vanced that an-estimate of the yield
may be made witn approximate cor-'
rectness. Correspondents of this De
partment estimate the production - at
70 per cent, compared with a normal
production of 15 bushels per acre. The
estimated average harvested was 1,-
577,352 acres. Total production should
be approximately 16,562,196 bushels,
being 19,468,042 bushels short of 1915 -crop.
'
Oats show a decrease of 2 per cent
in prospect compared with estimate of
one month ago. The outlook is most
discouraging. The severe drought has
cut the crop short..
Clover hay will produce an aver
age of 1.6 tons per acre. Timothy put
away in best condition for many years
with an estimate of 104 per cent com
pared with an average.
Potatoes show serious damage by
drought and bugs and in some locali
ties won't produce half a crop. The
general state prospect is estimated at
70 per cent compared with- a normal
yield, a decrease of 19, points compar
ed with estimate of one month ago.
Pastures show a decline of 16 points
compared with report of last month. '
Apples and peaches are reported as
dropping badly. Apples being esti
mated at 55 per cent compared 'with
an average, and peaches at 49 per
cent.
The continued drought is affecting
very unfavorably all growing crops.
Some local showers occurred, but were
not sufficient for any material im
provement. Corn potatoes, pasture, :
tobacco and garden truck are suffer-
in? badly, and unless rain comes soon. '
these crops will be very light Water
getting scarce.
W. C. T. U. ANNUAL MEETING.
Fulton County Woman's Christian
Temperance Union will hold its an
nual meeting at Swanton, Ohio, in the '
M. E. Church Wednesday August 16.
Frances Ensign Fuller of Madison,
Ohio, Vice President Ohio W. C. T.
U. and National Lecturer will give
addresses both afternoon and evening.
A fine program has been arranged
for both afternoon and evening in ad
dition to the addresses. Business
and executive session in forenoon be
ginning at 9:15.- Pot luck dinner and
supper. .
'Mrs. Fuller will speak in Oak
Shade at eight o'clock and in. Delta
Friday eveninz the 18th. Mrs. Ful
ler is a pleasing speaker and we
know she has a message we all need
to hear.
. , A BUNGALOW.
.That's what most folks; of moder
ate means are building- nowadays
when they put up a home. You will
find in our Home Building Depart
ment, in this issue of The Tribune a
graphic description of new features in
bungalow design. Read it . .
i.
