jflLfrn YEAR. No ».
A bold hold it.
jlguiyma Piles Uls Trade Near
OmUle, and Palls Into Hutches
Of The Law.
About eleven o’clock Saturday morn
ii Section Foreman Castritls and
(“of W« g an g of Greek section men
" it work along the Great North
flUroad a short distance beyond
LjCHuII Station, and only two or
s miles in an air line from Oro-
u man with a handkerchief over
Uj (we and armed with a revolver
uAflgjy dropped into the railroad cut
ordered them to hand out their
•ygtf, One of the men hesitated and
Moried, but a shot at his feet cre
ued I Hidden change of heart, ami he
Miltlr contributed to the general pot.
Tbt total cash netted the robber some
He was perfectly cool, taking Ills
m |n dispelling his victims, and
they had turned in the full ex
iKtottheir cash possessions the liigh
fiyaflh walked off over the hill.
VOld of the hold up was immedi
itejy brought to town by the section
Ml, Who at first declared that three
mi wore implicated in the robbery.
litg : developments proved this to
hive been a freak of the imagination,
fright ttultiplying the lone robber
dmefold. Fortunately Deputy Sheriff
Ciair Ward was in town when word
m received of the hold up, having
KM from Okanogan for the purpose
effrUhwing tips received at the sher
iff, tffice as to the wherebouts of the
IHkiTille robber. Securing the ser
fkoi of Marshal E. J. Wilson and R.
i Hgooe be started at once in an
who tor the scene of the crime. The
inffii of the robber was picked up at
oMA tibe traveled in the road, raak
lig tfD effort to all appearance to
dodo arrest, and the tracks were fol-
until they turned into the prem-
IwKR. H. Edgerton, who lives only
distance east of the place
«llit-tlu robbery was committed.
Dopnty Ward left Wilson and Hoose
Htofaar with instructions to head off
'HiSwlaking to the brush and bold
ly Mtered the house. Here he found
ftii Hum present with the Edgerton
fully, and pushing his gun into Huss'
riba ordered him to throw up his
hud*. Huos complied promptly. Upon
searching his prisoner the officer fall
al to find either money or weapon.
After handcuffing Huss, Ward contin
ued the search and discovered a revol
ver and all the money taken from the
section hands under the mattress at
the head of a bed in an adjoining
room.
Ur. Edgerton stated that Huss came
to the bouse and asked for a drink of
»»ler. The family were just sitting
down to dinner. They knew Huss, as
be hid worked in that vicinity with a
eeetlon crew, and invited him to takj
dialler wjth them. They had Just finish
ed the meal as the auto stopped in
front of the house. Huss then stepped
lato the adjoining room and asked Mr.
Edierton to say that no one had been
la the house, but Mr. Edgerton refus
ed. It was while in the room that Huss
secreted the pistol and money,
la his search about Orovllle for
duea for the Brldesville robbery Sat
urday morning, suspicion at the time
pointing to Huss, Deputy Ward had
located a new suit case belonging to
Huss. When the party returned to Oro
dlle late Saturday afternoon Ward
suggested to Huss that they get the
suit case. He denied owning such an
Wide, but after it was secured ack
nowledged It to be his property.
The revolver that Huss had hidden
»i the Edgerton home was one that
had been taken during the Bridesvllle
hotel robbery, committed the week be
fore, and in the suit case were the
clothes worn by Huss at the time he
committed that robbery.
Saturday evening W. H. Dockstader
of Midway, and J. Simpson, of Green
*ood, provincial officers, arrived n
Orovllle on the trail of the Bridesvllle
robber, they having received a Up that
he was in Orovllle. By that time Dep
uty Ward had taken his prisoner to
Okanogan. The British Columbia offi
cers proceeded to Okanogan and *he
Prisoner was turned over to them to
taken to Greenwood and tried for
O'* crime committed at Bridesvllle.
he provincial officers accompanied
1 Deputy Ward and Huss passed
through Orovllle Sunday on the way
•o Greenwood.
There were good and sufficent reas
ons for surrendering Huss to the
“Tfdsh Columbia officers. Huss has
"J-*® out of the state reformatory only
••tout a year, and probably he would
»ve been returned to that institution
•d he been tried in this county. On
t “* oth e r side of the line the law is
•°t so lenient. Huss will receive a long
e,m * n the peitentlary if he is found
Witty, and the proofs are so strong
•1 he cannot escape conviction.
ihi r6d Hus * ls al,out the last man ,n
is upper country one would pick out
** 1 highwayman He Is a short.
heavy set lad, some 23 or 24 years of
age, and to all appearances, densely
ignorant. He has worked off and oil
with section crews In this vicinity. He
is either stolidly ignorant, not realis
ing the seriousness of his crimes, or
stolidly indifferent as to consequences
judging from the little care taken to
escape detection and arrest. He made
no effort at all to get out of the coun
tr> after the Bridesville robbery, as
any one of common sense would have
done. He came to Oroville immediately
after that sensational holdup and was
here openly on the streets for several
days flashing considerable money. Ho
purchased a $b suit case, and ordered
a suit of clothes from the local tailor.
At first, he ordered a single suit, pay
ing |5 in advance. A few hours after
wards he returned to the tailor shop,
ordered an extra pair of trousers and
paid the entire charges. Friday he was
shaved at Frank Buckingham’s barber
shop, and tried to borrow two dollars,
stating that he had lost all of his mon
ey in a black Jack game. The barber
could hardly swallow that statement,
as he did not believe that anybody in
town knew how to play blackjack, and
even If they did they would not show
such disrespect for the gambling laws
as to play for money. Anyhow Mr.
Buckingham didn’t have two dollars
worth of confidence in Huss and as a
result of that lack of confidence Mr
Huss sallied forth and proceeded to
assess the hard working Green section
men.
Deputy Sheriff Ward deserve} great
credit for running down the robber so
promptly and making the arrest after
discovering his wherabouts. He did
not ask his companions to share the
danger. Neither did he halt nor hesitate
when it was evident that a desperate
man had been run to earth. He took
all the chances by deliberately walk
ing into the house where he felt cer
tain the robber was in hiding, if Huss
had been a real desperado he could
easily have shot the officer and made
his escape. Mr. Ward took that chance
in the performance of his duty, and
everybody admires pluck.
AN EFFICIENT OFFICIAL.
Efficiency in office should carry
weight when the incumbent is before
the public for nomination and re-elec
tion, and that officer who has exer
cised economy, as well as efficency, in
the discharge of official duties is wor
thy of further indorsement and trust,
in some quarters an idea prevails that
women are not as competent as mere
man in conducting a public office. In
handling a public trust, but experience
in this county has demonstrated that a
capable woman can make a creditable
record in a public office. For instance,
take the office of county clerk, that
has been under the management and
direction of Mrs. Mary E. McClure for
the past two years, and comparing the
receipts and disbursements of that of
fice with similar offices in adjoining
counties and the figures show that Mrs.
McClure has made a greater saving for
Okanogan county, and a better show
ing, than has been made by the county
clerks of such counties as Ferry, Che
lan, Douglas, Grant and Lincoln, all
held by men. Quoting a few figures in
this connection may be stronger evi
dence than mere assertion, as they are
the official records. Taking the audi
tor’s annual reports for the year 191 <
and the record of the receipts and dis
bursements of county clerks are as fol
lows: Chelan county, receipt,
$4,385.90; disbursements, $3,905.39,
which shows about 10 per cent less ex
penditures than receipts. Grant county
receipts, $2,689; expenses, $2,531.
about 2 per cent less expenditures
than receipts. Douglas county receipts
are $1,539.90; expenditures $2,001.i.,
nr 29 per cent greater disbursements
than receipts. Ferry county, receipts,
$741.50; disbursements $1,600.80. or
115 per cent greater disbursements
than receipts. Lincoln county, receipts
$2,938.40; disbuhsements $2,727.70, or
7 per cent less expeditures than re
ceipts. Okanogan county, receipts are
$3,374.25; disbursements $2,8.{,>.» i,
15 per cent greater receipts than ex
penditures. Thus, the county clerk a
office of Okanogan county was not on
self sustaining, hut turns back into th
treasury $538.44. No further comment
is necessary as to the capabill y >
Mrs. McClure or her method of con
ducting the office of county clerk.
Rose Court No. 470 is a busy frater
nal society. At its last meeting a new
member was initiated, ' # l
were balloted on. Supreme Chance or
A. L. Hereford, of Springfield. IlUk.
sent the court a gold prize pin
presented to some active
the court. By vote the member, pro
sented the pin to Recorder Mao
Mitchell for her faithful work In »-
society A delicious lunch was serve
after lodge. All present had a splendid
time Don’t forget the next meeting
August 11. Something unusual for the
evening.
pleasant sewing party.
The Isch-ga-Bibble Club entertained
the following ladles at an old fashion
ed sewing party held in the library
building last Friday afternoon from
t 0 o'clock: Mrs. 8. Blackler, Mrs.
t . H. Neal, Mrs. .). M. Norris, Mrs. 8 C
Mitchell, Mrs E. E. Effner, Mrs. D. H."
Lewis, Mrs. C. P. House, Mrs. A. W.
Itond, Mrs. 8. H. Sanderson, Mrs. E A
Williams, Mrs. J. M. Adams. Mrs. E.
McCammon, Mrs. Ashby, Mrs. R. Grle
ger, Mrs, Criswell, Mrs. L. H. Hendrix,
Mrs. W n. Sexson, Mrs. Guy Gllraouri
Mrs. j, tt. Murray, Mrs. Frank Bartell
Sr., Mrs. George Bartell, Mrs. A. E
uin. Mrs. Carey, Mrs. I. N. Wlck
ergham, Mrs, C. E. Lore, Mrs. R. Pren
tice, Mrs. McDaniel, Mrs. Silvernail,
Mrs Call, Mrs. F. Grathwold, Mrs. t„
1.. Work, Mrs. O. A. Spencer, Mrs. \V.
ri Thayer, Mrs Gray, Mrs. C. W.
Smith. Mrs. A. Shultz, Mrs. R. P. Hos
kvn, Mrs. Geo. Stoltz. Mrs. H. R. Shaf
er, Mrs. Dell Hart, Miss Rosetta Mur
ray, Miss Corine Smith, Miss Hermlne
Grleger, Mias Helen Grleger, Miss
Bernice Desmond, Misses Johnsons
The afternoon waa spent very pleai
unlly with sewing and visiting while
the Misses Grleger and Smith enter
tained with songs and piano duets. B“-
fore serving refreshments of grape
punch and cake Mrs. C, W. Smith read
the A. R. poem of the Iscli-ga-Blh
hlc Club, and also told something ot
the purposes of the workings ot the
club, extending an invitation to all
who cared to do so to Join the club.
The refreshments were provided and
served by the Misses Grleger, Smith
and Harding, and the club wishes to
take this means of expressing thanks
to the young ladles for the excellency
of that feature of the entertainment.
All who attended expressed themsel
ves as delighted with the hospitable
entertainment extended by the club.
< <>( >(11, PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the regular meeting of the
town council of the town of Oroville
Washington, August 7, 1916.
Present, Councilman Beale, Frlls,
Kartell, Starrett and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read. The report
ol the town treasurer was read and
ordered placed on tile. The report of
Jas. Ferguson, police justice was read
and on motion was accepted. The fol
lowing bills were read and on motion
were allowed: B. J. Wilson, salary,
$75,00; E. R. Hoose, salary and post
age, $102,00; E. A, McMahan, salary,
$64.81; Jas. Ferguson, police justice,
fees, $6.20; Schultz & Son, freight and
drayage, $3.92; Oroville Garage, shop
work, $2.25; John Collins, labor on
water works, $13.20; Okanogan Valley
Power company, lights and power,
$115.50; Pacific Telephone and Tele
graph Co., phone, $5.50; Industrial In
surance Commission, $1.63.
The matter of street grades on the
south side of the track was discussed
and after some explanation of the
condition of the present established
grade, motion was made by Council
man Smith, seconded by Councilman
Beale that the engineer be Instructed
to run and establish a new grade at
once On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Geo. Warren, advance agent for the
company that is to present "Charley’s
Aunt” at the Orpheura Monday evening,
August 14. spent Tuesday and Wednes
day in Orovllle arranging with Geo.
Bartell to put Orovllle on the circuit
for a large Calgary booking house that
lias some 70 companies on the road. In
going over the route Mr. Warren ascer
tained that his companies, that chiefly
play Canadian towns, can be routed
through Orovllle to points west in Can
ada saving back tracking over the
same ground. This will mean for the
people of Oroville some of the beat
dramatic and musical entertainments
of a professional nature on the road.
The first company to appear here
under the bokings of the Calgary house
will be a very strong organization that
will present that pretty and laughable
comedy “Charley’s Aunt.” Only a short
time ago the high school pupils gave
the same play under another name, and
ti-ev put It on the stage in a most cred
itable manner. The public will want to
see how professionals handle the same
play, comparing their work with that
of amateurs, and the Orpheum should
b0 crowded on this occasion. This pa
per ran promise an entertainment (at
superior to that generally presented
bv traveling companies.
The Odd Fellows of Molson met in
Mol son Art studio July 27, and made
final arrangements for the establish
ment of a lodge here. They have order
ed their charter, which will be here In
a f eW days. The new lodge will be in
stituted August 15. The Oroville and
Chesaw lodges will put on the work.-
Molsou Leader.
OROVILLE, WABHIN VTON, AUGUST 11, 1916
OROVILLE GENERAL HOSPITAL.
The Necessary Money Has Been Subscrib
ed and Work ot Construction to
Commence Monday,
The Oroville General Hospital is soon to
be a substantial reality. Ground will be
bioken Monday, and the building ruFhed
to completion. This great civic improve
ment lias been made possible by the spon
taneous and liberal generosity of the resi
dents of Oroville and the immediate sur
rounding country. The hospital is to be
built by a stuck company, and already
shares have been taken to the amount of
nearly $4,500.
Monday evening a number of the share
holders met and perfected an organization
by incorporating under the laws of the
state. Those signing as incorporators are
L- L. Work, J. F. Samson, 11. J. Desmond,
F. V. Covert, Dr. J. L. Masters and Chas.
A. Powell, all well known business men of
this place. The trustees named were J. P.
Samson. F. V. Covert. Dr. J. L. Masters.
11. J. Desmond, Jas. E. Forde* Otto
Hemke and Frank Bartell, Jr. The names
of the trustees is a guarantee that the
construction and management of the hos
pital will be on a strict business basis
and the success of the enterprise Is as
sured at the very outset. It is expected
that the building will be ready for occu
pancy within six weeks.
The Qroville General Hospital is Just
what Its name implies. It is open to all
physicians from any part of the county or
country. It is the purpose to put up the
llrst unit of what is to be a modern hos
pital building, and It Is confidently be
lieved that In the course of lime the local
institution will grow to be one of the
most important of the kind In the north
west. It will possess every convenience
and accessory required In an establish
ment of the kind. As the plans are devised
ihe building is to be so constructed that
roadways will lead to both the ground
Moor and the second story, so that pa
tients can be easily and readily transfer
red directly to wards without the trouble
and inconvenience to the patient of being
carried up flights of stairs. It Is the in
tention to lay out and beautify the
grounds, so as to add the attraction of
pleasant surroundings for those who be
come Inmates of the building through the
misfortune of illness or accident. A fuller
description of the building will be given
when the trustees finals decide upon the
plans.
A large meeting of republicans assembl
ed at the town hall Wednesday evening for
the purpose of discussing the advlslblllty
of organizing with the object of 'demand
ing some recognition for the north part
of the county from officials running for
office. An organization was perfected and
some very warm speeches were made, In
which it was set forth the undeniable
fact that while the north part of the
county has paid a very large share of the
taxes In past years, this section has re
reived very little material aid from the
county in return. The people have sub
mitted tamely to this treatment, but have
at last reached the conclusion that it Is
timerW act. Ail that is asked is fair and
equitable recognition on the part of those
in authority, and feeling that this has noi
been accorded In the past some effort is
to lie made to secure recognition in the
future. The principal actions of the meet
ing was to nominate C. W. Smith as a
candidate for county commissioner for
the first district and appoint committees
to see that the full vote of the three local
precincts, that will amount to several
hundred is registered.
The Orovllle firemen and band have
combined for a picnic at Smith’* point, on
Osoyoos lake, for Sunday, August 13, and
from present indications It promises to be
the largest attended out door gathering
of the kind ever held in this place or vi
cinity, There will be a program of water
sports, handed in too late for publication
In this issue, but given in posters that
can be seen about town. Motor boats will
carry those who are not provided with
vehicles to and from the picnic grounds
at the nominal charge of 50c for the round
trip. Those who desire to pass a pleasant
day at one of the moat charming spots on
Osovoos lake should attend this picnic.
Hot lunches and Ice cream will be served
on the grounds at a reasonable charge,
the proceeds to be applied to the benefit
of tlie fire department.
That exquisite emotional actress and
stage star, Mine Petrova, will appear In
“What Will People Say,” at the Orpheum
Saturday and Sunday evenings. This is an
intensely Interesting photodrama of mod
el n society, based on Rupert Hughes' fa
mous story, In five reels. The story deals
with a problem of a very young woman
who Is used to every luxury, confronted
with the question of choosing between the
man of her heart and the man who can
give her the luxuries to which she has
been accustomed. She makes the wrong
decision, of course, and a domestic tragedy
follows that is replete with sensational
scenes. Like all the Metro pictures
••What Will People Say?” Is put on the
screen with beautiful settings, and the
acting is what could be expected from
such an artist as Mme. Petrova.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
service at 11 a. m. Bro. Remey, preaching.
Preaching service at 8 p. m. Sermon by
the pastor. Everybody welcome; everybody
Invited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching al
11 o'clock, subject of sermon, "The Unex
pected Treasure of Heaven.”
Come and bring your friends. Ihere Is
no greater way to honor your friends than
to invite them to come to church with
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
Trinity Guild will meet next Wednes
dac afternoon at the home of Mrs. Geo.
Stoltz.
Roy Vincent, who drew No. 156 In the
Colville reservation land drawing, states
that he will file on his homestead on the
Colville reservation when the time comes
for making such a flling. and will perfect
his entry by complying with the law as
required.
The picnic held at Smith's Point Wed
nesday by the members of the M E.
church was largely attended and the
young people enjoyed a most delightful
outing, and that enjoyment was equally
shared by the grown people who were so
fortunate as to be present. Boating, bath
ing and the usual ample basket dinner
contributed to the pleasure of the occas
lon- ,
In order to have all the citizens of Oro
vllle precincts register Saturday. August
19 has been designated as "Registration
Hay ” A free lunch will be served In the
library park, to which everybody Is In
vited.'The object Is to get out every voter
who has not, so far. registered. The reg
istration books will be open during the
,jav for both precincts No. 1 and 2. Every
voter In the two precincts, male and fe
male, who have not already registered are
requested to turn out on that date and
perform a neglected duty.
CLUB ORGANIZED
THAT BIG PICNIC.
AT THE ORPHEUM.
M. E. SERVICES.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Mrs. J. B. Riste, of Chopaka, was a
visitor in town Tuesday.
Mrs. R. J. Armstrong ot Cbopaka,
was visiting in town several days this
week.
Mr. On, who owns one of the East
Oroville orchard tracts, is building a
new residence.
Dr. Efner reports the arrival of a
new girl at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Morris Walmer.
Herbert Curtis will build a modern
bungalow on his lot on north Van
couver street this fall.
L. C. Gray, who has a place on the
East Oroville orchard tracts, is having
his house moved nearer the river.
Mrs. Vic Landholdt, of Mount Hull,
is under the care of Dr. Efner, suffer
ing from blood poisoning in both arms.
Mrs. May Splawn was in town Wed
nesday from the home of her parents
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Loudon, near Cho
paka.
Mlsa Ruth Loudon was a visitor m
town from Cbopaka Wednesday Mlsa
Loudon recently returned from a visit
to Alaska.
Mrs. Lake is improving her place on
the Bast Oroville orchard tracts by
constructing a large and model chick
en bouse.
Rev. G. H. Severance, who has been
spending bis summer vacation in the
east, is expected back to take charge
of his mission in this county next
week.
Monroe Harman, Dell Hart, Ernest
Riste, A. M. Stansbury, Judge C. H.
Neal, Attorneys E. A. Williams and
J. M. Adams and Dr. C. P. House were
visitors in Okanogan the first of the
week.
L. F. Stansbury, who raises some of
the very best fruit grown in the valley,
thus demonstrating what valley lauds
can be made to do under irrigation,
hcs the thanks of the Gazette for a
liberal supply of choice peaches.
Mrs. W. L. Davis and daughters, and
W. Leonard Davis have returned to
Oroville after several weeks sojourn
at the old farm near Malott It Is a
great pleasure to state that Mr. Davis
has greatly improved in health this
summer, having gained ten or twelve
pounds in weight.
Mrs. M. I. Hansen, of Whltefisb,
Montana, formerly Mrs. M. I. Parks,
and a resident of Oroville several years
ago, was in town several days this
week, called here on business matters.
The lady was pleased to note the chan
ges that have taken place in Oroville
since she left here, and predicted that
in time this is to make a large city.
The Hansens are very nicely situated
at Whiteflsh, where business of all
lines is in a prosperous condition.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Edwards, who
left Oroville a year or two ago for Ore
gon, returned Monday and may do fide
to stay some time. Mr. Edwadrs was
one of the pioneer farmers of P*! ier
mountain. After selling his ran ;n be
moved to Oroville, living here i num
ber of years. Mr. Edwards lost 'iis
health and moved to Oregon largly in
hopes that a change of climate would
be beneficial. He is looking much bet
ter than when he left here, although be
is not entirely well.
Dr. W. C. Ketchum who has conduct
ed a dental office in Oroviile for the
past two years, has sold out his busi
ness and his handsome bungalow, in
the east part of town, to Dr. T. M.
Robinson of Tacoma, and will give up
possession the first of September. Dr.
Ketchum is an expert practitioner, and
has enjoyed a large patronage during
his residence in Oroviile. He will leave
a large number of friends in this place
when be moves away. The doctor ex
pects to eventually locate at Qreat
Falls, one of the largest cities in Mon
tana.
The news of the hold up Saturday
morning created considerable of a sen
sation in town. When the officers
reached Oroviile with the prisoner in
the evening there was a large crowd
collected to see the bad, bold, high
wayman, and there was much disap
pointment when it was ascertained that
the robber was very much of a runt.
Bigness is the preconceived idea of
boldness, but when backed with a vici
ous looking gun size has nothing to do
with the abi’ity of the wielder to throw
a scare into those who are looking
down the muzzle of the weapon.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. H. Severance, Vicar.)
Services will be held on Sunday
morning, August 20, at 11 o’clock. Ail
are cordially invited. Sunday school
at 10 a. m.
r>r. Efner reports that an auto went off
the grade near Chesaw Sunday, the five
occupants miraculously escaping with
their lives. The spill occurred on a narrow
side hill road. The auto turned upside
down over an irrigation ditch, after a fall
of some 15 feet, and the open ditch saved
the lives of the occupants of the car.
Mrs. Q. L. Armstrong returned home
last week from her trip to Seattle and
other coast towns.
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO STATE
CONSTITUTION.
To be voted on November 7. 1916.
“An amendment of section 1, article \ 1
of the state constitution, rela'lng to me
qualification of voters.”
STATE OF WASHINGTON,
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
OF STATE.
To whom It may concern; in obedlance
to an act of the legislature, allowed to be
come operative without the approval of
the governor, entitled as follows’ “An act
frovidlng fur the amendment of section
of article VI of the cunsll’utlon of the
State of Washington, relating to the qual
Ideation of voters,” there Is hereby pub
llshed for the consideration of the vot
ers of the State of V/nu'.ngton the lul
lowlng proposed amend <ru T to tho con
st I tut lon of said state:
CHAPTER 127.
(S. S. B. 147)
An act providing (or ‘Me amendment or
section 1 article VI of the constitution
o( the State of Washington, retailin' (o
the qualification of voters.
Be It enacted by the legislature of the
Stale of Washington:
Section 1. That at the general election
to be held In this state on the Tuesday
next succeeding the Hist Monday In No
vember, 1916, there shall be submitted to
the qualified electors of the state, for theli
adoption and approval or (ejection, an
amendment to section 1 of article VI of
the Consltitutlon of the State of Washing
ton so that the same shall when amended
read as follows
ARTICLE VI
Section 1 All persons of the age of 21
years or over possessing me toiiowftig
qualifications, shall be entitled to vote at
ail elections They shall be citizens of the
United States, they shall have lived In
the state one year and in the county nine
ty days, and in the cly, town, ward oi
precinct thirty days Immediately preced
ing the election at which they offer to
vote; they shall be able to read and speak
the English language: Provided, that no
person shall be qualified or entitled to
vote in respect to or upon any question or
proposition to Incur or not to Incur any
debt or obligation, or to borrow money or
Issue any bond or obligation, or to ratify
or validate any debt, bond or obligation,
or to authorize the purchase, sale, mor -
tgage or pledge of property, revenue or
Income by or of the state, or municipal
corporation, city, town or district, unless
in addition to the qualifications above
prescribed he or she shall at the date ot
Ids or her registration be the separate
owner of. or as husband or wife have
community title In property upon the lex
roll of the municipal corporation or lax
ing district in which such question or
proposition is to be voted upon, and upon
which property a tax has been paid, or
shall be payable, during the calendar year
in which such question or proposition is lo
be voted upon. No person shall be denied
the elective franchise on account of sex.
nor shall this amendment affect the rlgnt
of franchise of any person who Is now a
qualified elector of this state except In re
spect to questions or propositions men
tioned in the foregoing proviso. Indians
not taxed shall never be allowed the elec
tive franchise. The legislative authorities
shall enact laws defining the manner of
ascertaining the qualifications of voters as
to their ability to read and speak the
English language, providing for the regis
tration of voters generally and as prop
erty owners, and providing for punish
ment of persona voting or registering in
violation of the provision of this section.
See. 2. The secretary of state shall
cause the amendment proposed In section
1 of this act to be published for three
months next preceding said election In
some weekly newspaper In every county
where a newspper Is published through
out the state.
Passed the Senate February 27. 1915.
Passed the House March 8. 1915.
NOTE BY SECRETARY OF STATE.
The above act filed In the office of the
Secretary of State March 17, 1915, and al
lowed to become operative wlhoul the
approval of the governor.
1. M. HOWELL,
Sec. Stacy 'if State
There shall be printed on all badots
provided for the said election the words
"For the proposed amendemcat to sec
tion 1 of arlcle VI of tho coos'i cl ion re
lating to the qualification of voters."
"Against the proposed amendment to
section 1 of article VI of the constitution
relating to the qualification of voters."
In testimony where)!' 1 have hereunto
set my hand and afflxjd the seal of Ihe
State of Washington.
Pone at Oiyni’na thlf Ist dnv o! July,
1916.
(Seal.) I. M. HOWELL.
Secretary of Stale.
First publication August 4, 1916. Last
publication, October 27, 1916.
NOTICE.
In the Superior Cour of the State of
Washington, In and for the County of
Okanogan.
In the matter of the petition of the board
or directors of the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation District, organized
under the laws of the State of Wash
ington, for the examination, approval,
and confirmation of the proceedings
had on the part of said district and its
officers for In and about the Issue and
sale of additional bonds of said dls
rlct.
NOTICE.
Notice is hereby given that the board
of directors of the West Okanogan Valley
Irrigation District, an Irrigation district
organized and existing under and by vir
ile of the laws of the State of Washing
ton, situated in Okanogan county in said
state, has filed in the above entitled court
and In the above entiled proceedings a
petition praying that all the proceedings
had by said district and Its board of di
rectors and other district officials pro
viding for and authorizing the Issue and
sale of additional bonds of said district
In the amount of fifty thousand ($50,000.00)
dollars may be Judicially examined, ap
proved and confirmed.
Notice is hereby furher given that
Tuesday, the 22nd day of August. 1916, at
the hour of 10 o’clock a. m. In the fore
noon of said day at the court room of the
above entitled superior court at the tow*
of Okanogan, Okanogan county, Wash
ingon, has been fixed by order of said
court at the time and place for the hear
ing on said petition and any person In
terested In the proceedings had for. In
and about the Issue and sale of said addi
tional district bonds In the sum of
$50,000.00 as above mentioned, or in any
of the proceedings mentioned In the said
petition, may, on or before the time fixed
for hearing of said petition, demur to or
answer said petition, and such proceeding
thereupon and thereafter shall be had In
the above entitled matter as provided by
law.
Witness my hand and the seal of said
court this 27th day of July, 1916.
MARY E. MoCLURE,
Clerk of the above entitled court.
(SEAL.)
First publication August 4. 1916.
BIDS FOR FUEL.
The board of directors of School Dis
trict No. 17 will receive bids for furnish
ing the school district with 60 cords of
4 foot wood. 15 cords of 16 Inch wood and
30 tons of coal. Bids to be opened August
19, 1916 at the hour of 2 p. m. The board
reserves the right to reject any or all bids
Bids should he submitted In sealed enve
lopes marked “Bids for Fuel,” For fur
thers particulars inquire of
B. E PARSONS. Clerk.
91.60 PER TEAR
