llftlQfOft
VOL. 43
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI. FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1916
NO. 3t
FARMINGTON
Pageant and Home-Coming
SEPTEMBER 14, 15 and 16
Pageant on Ozark Athletic Field, Sept. 14 and 16, 8 p.m.
Concert, Sept. 15, under direction of E. C. Barroll.
SEASON TICKETS: ADULTS $1.00; CHILDREN UNDER 14, 60c.
Everybody Invited. Tell Your Friends.
Our Great
SHOE CLEARANCE SALE
Is Now Going on
Big Reductions
Big Selections
Karsch's
BETTER MAIL
FOR
Postoffice Department Getting Busy as
Result of Article in Times Mention
ing Delay, in Delivery of Mails
The article in The Times two weeks
ago, calling attention to the delay in
getting the mail from St. Louis to this
point each morning, has already met
with beneficial results, as the mails
have already shown a tendency to
reach Farmirigton an hour or two
sooner. The article published in this
paper fell into the hands of the head
of the mail service in St. Louis, and
at once action was taken to stir things
up along the line.
The Times article took ag a basis
for its criticism the Schedule that the
local carrying the early morning mail
to DeLassus is to arrive at that point.
Further investigation, however, indi
cates that said local has been usually
behind in arriving at DeLassus two or
three hours, so that the criticism was
apparently unfair in throwing the
blame principally upon the electric
line. The work that is necessary for
the electric line to perform, after the
arrival of the local at DeLassus,
makes it impossible for them to de
liver the mail at this point before the
..... 1., t,, frrmir alolo whTI the
UCYVO UCglllO W 5wt v.., "
local makes a specialty of arriving
so late.
Honeymoon
Rudely Eclipsed
B. F. Hamilton, a young man of
Flat River, came over to Farmington
last Saturday evening, cashed a
check for $10 on the Flat River Bank
at Klein's grocery store, and about
nine o'clock that evening called up
Recorder Clay and told him he would
like to get a marriage license. He was
furnished with a license to mar
ry Miss Martha Kelley, who had been
working in a store ai rial mver, aiiu
whose people live near Des Arc. On
Monday morning they appeared be
fore Justice Good and he tied them
up good and fast as far as the legal
formula goes. The young man then
went to the St. Francois County Bank
and presented a check drawn on the
Flat River Bank for $40. Cashier
Roberts had known Hamilton at Flat
River and supposed he had been sav
ing up for this special occasion, so
cashed the check. After the young
man had gone Mr. Roberts thought
that there might be a flaw in his sup
position, and 'phoned over to the Flat
River Bank to make sure. The ans
wer came back, "No money."
Then Mr. Roberts got busy. He
followed the bridal couple to DeLas
sus. Young Hamilton had purchased
tickets for himself and bride to St.
Louis, and they were anxiously wait
ing for the train. Mr. Roberts gent
ly reminded the young groom that he
must have been mistaken in the name
of the bank on which he drew his
,i,i. anA that it TiuTOild be more
pleasant for all concerned if he re-,
tornod the mnoy. This,was an wrly I
SERVICE
FARMINGTON
The Times oversight was simply in
failing to allow for delayed trains,
thereby putting the brunt ot the trou
ble on the electric line, which was in
no way to blame, at least for much of
the delay in delivery of the mails.
Yet our criticism was based on the
information we had at hand, and while
we desire to exhonorate the electric
line from the imputation of negligence
insofar as that road is blameless. The
Times management does feel that its
article will result in much good to this
community in improved mail service.
It seems that, if the Missouri Pa
cific cannot get -the mail to DeLassus
on time, with much greater regular
ity than it has for some time past,
then much better service could be se
cured by sending it over the M. R. &
B. T. railroad, which would get it here
at a reasonably early hour. But that
is a question for the postal officials to
solve. But Farmington is an impor
tant mail point, and its needs demand
that a radical correction be made in
its mail service. We believe that Un
cle Sam will also view the matter in
like manner, and will not rest content
while knowing that his mail for this
noint is forced to lay silent for hours
in bags while due to be in the hands of
the people.
snag for his frail craft to strike ere
it was fairly launched on the matri
monial sea, dissipating all his antici
pations of a happy honeymoon in the
big metropolis as fades a mirage on
the desert. In order to satisfy the
austerity of the exacting banking
house he had to return the money, so
easily acquired, and to cash in the
transportation tickets of himself and
bride to make up the full amount
The check cashed by the Klein Grocer
Co. is still held by them.
Out of money and with a dainty
young bride on his hands there was
nothing left for the saddened groom
to do but to 'return to Flat River with
his bride, which he did, saying that
he would "go to work." Hamilton is
only 22 years of age and his bride
is a pretty, sweet-faced girl of 18. It
is too bad that he should have made
such a grievous mistake in taking up
on himself so important responsible
ity as the marriage relation. If no
thing worse comes of it and the law
is permitted to wink at this little
breach "against the peace and digni
ty of the State" which we trust it
may, for like all the world we love
a lover it is hoped that this experi
ence will make of him a better and
wiser man, that he will get down to
work like a good fellow, earn an hon
est and plentiful living for himself
and his young wife, and never give her
another cause for regret or unhappi
ness. Rev. S. P. Brite, former pastor of
the Farmington Baptist Church, stop
ped over here last Sunday on kis way
to the Baptist Assembly at Arcadia
Heights, and occupied the pulpit of
the Baptist Church Sunday evening.
Democrats
Organize
The Democratic Central Committee
met at the Court House in Farming
ton on Tuesday, August 8th, and was
called to order by G. J. Goeltz of Bis
marck. Parkhurst Sleeth of Flat
River was elected chairman of the new
Committee, Francis A. Benham, Sec
retary, and B. S. McCullough, secre
tary to Mr. Henslcy, as assistant to
Mr. Benham, and L. H. Williams,
treasurer.
Mr. Goeltz, treasurer of the old
Committee, made his report and set
tlement and turned over a balance
to the secretary of $182.76.
A Publicity Committee was ap
pointed, composed of J. H. Malugen
of Jsonne lerre, chairman; B. tl.
Marbury, B. S. McCullough and Fran
cis A. Benham of farmington.
Chairman Sleeth will name the Ex
ecutive Committee in the next few
days.
The committee passed a resolution
endorsing Mr. Sleeth for one of the
State Democratic Committeemen
from this Congressional District.
The committee adjourned to Aug
ust 26th, to meet at the Court House
at 2 p. m., at which time Congress
man Hensley, Circuit Judge Huck,
and all candidates and interested
Democrats are requested to attend.
All present were Democrats, and
the sentiment prevailed that this is
a Democratic year, and that the
whole ticket, from President to Con
stable, will be elected.
Attend to Weeds
and Cess-Pools
This is the season of the year when
every resident should look carefully
after the cutting of weeds on their
premises. It is not sufficient that one
keeps the front yard carefully mowed.
A rank growth of weeds in the back
yard are just as great a danger to
health as though they were in the
front yard. The owners of all vacant
lots should also see that they are
mowed, before the weeds go to seed.
This is most important, as rank
growth of weeds are an impediment
to health.
It now appears that proper pre
cautions were not taken by all res
idents in regard to making the pro
pagation of mosquitoes impossible,
judging from the number that have
taken up quarters in this city. Of
course there is no absolute cure for
those that are now active, as shooting
them is indeed a slow task. But a
gallon or two of oil, poured into your
cess pool, if it has not already been so
treated, will prevent additional broods
coming out, providing your cess pool
has not been so treated earlier in the
season. This is truly a case where
"a stitch in time saves nine." Do IT
NOW!
Coming! Coming!
The following new and renewal
subscriptions to The Times have been
received the past week: New sub
scriptions R. E. Kelly of Sernopo-
lis, Wyoming; W. E. Marshall of
Knob Lick, James Morris of Desloge,
John K. Lowrance of Greenville, Mo.;
J. F. Waller of Hazel Run. R. G. Hin-
kle of Colorado, Ewing Boone of St.
Louis, A. B. McKenzie of Route 1,
Farmington. Renewals Lawrence
Cunningham and G. A. Walker of
Route 4, Farmington; Dr. I. N. Shan
non of Fredericktown, John T. White
of Bonne Terre, H. L. Grider of Bis
marck. A FEW ERRORS
Attention has been called to a few
errors in the detailed statement of
election returns from St. Francois
county, as they were published in last
week's Times. For instance, "A Vot
er" writes from Leadwood that the
statement gave Mr. Hensley 8 votes,
Mr. Munger 112, and Mr. Robb 3. An
investigation into the matter shows
the votes from that precinct were
jumbled up, and that Mr. Hensley re
ceived 112 votes, Mr. Robb 8 votes,
and Mr. Munger 3 votes.
However, the total votes as given
for the various candidates are virtu
ally correct, which shows that the
nboVe error was made in getting the
table together. There i abundant
reason for Buch errors, especially in
getting up such a tabulation in a
trief space of time.
MEET HIM !
A PIE 5 ANP GENTLEMEN- ) BSK
I TAKE PLEASURE IN IN' 1
TR0DUGIN& .TO VOU THE jfl
FATHER Of THE LAND-BANK BILL, A
STATESMAN ANP PEMO' 1
CRAT, THE
H0N. F. P. GARDNER vHLA
FOR THE UPBUILDING
OF FARMINGTON
What the Times Management Has
Done or Tried to Do in Its First
Eight Months of Service.
With this issue of The Times, its
present management completes the
eighth month of active service. Dur
ing those first few months The Times
has seen fit to criticise several things
and conditions that it found in exist
ence in this community, feeling that
such mild criticism, or calling atten
tion to apparent defects, might result
to the good and profit of this commun
ity. This action has been taken by the
present management of The Times
with the good of this community prin
cipally at heart. Of course, we also
felt that such action would, in all
probability, help or hinder us in the
unbuilding of this paper, in accord
ance with the merits or demerits of
our course.
On such hypothesis The Times man
agement is willing and anxious to rest
its case. To be brief, a few of the
more important things The Times hns
thus far advocated for the good and
upbuilding of Farmington and at
Francois county, in our opinion, are
the following:
For equalizing the tax rates of St,
Francois county, whereby the mining
corporations will be compelled to pay
their just proportion of taxes. In this
matter our suggestions met with a
quick response, as the Board of
Equalization immediately proceeded
to raise the assessment of the mining
properties almost $1,000,000, which
was a long steD in the right direction
While we ere not egotistical enough
to claim all the credit for such raise, ance. But in every case the "stagnant
we know that The Times is the only1 waters of the pool" have been stirred,
paper in St. Francois county that had and such stirring is just what is need
even suggested that such a raise be ed in order to purify the pool.j
made. Is there a good citizen in Farming-
This paper was also the first to ton, or in St. Francois county, who
take up and strenuously advocate the cannot sunport such action on the
issuing of bonds for improved county part of The Times? If there is one
roads. While no definite steps have such citizen, we would be giad if he
as vet been taken in this matter, j wnuld speak up. We would like to
there is no question but that the peo- iret his viewpoint. We speak of "him"
pie, in all parte of the county, arc
now flrivinc this most imDortant mat-
ter serious thought, and the opinion i which The Times has been constantly
generally prevails that the voters are ituorling, under its present manage
now in the mood to vote bonds for men.
HSB-Jsgl t' " ZJ -I
' '
such purpose, when the question is
properly submitted to them.
We have also criticised the poor
service of the Electric road at differ
ent times, and better service has fol
lowed. We attempted to point the
way to the securing of free mail de
livery in Farmington, which again
failed through the machinations of a
few local citizens, their actions up to
now never having been saticfactorily
explained. We have recently mention
ed the very inferior telephone service
Farmington has been receiving, while
paying for first-class service, which
has brought forth expressions of ef
forts being made to improve such
service.
The latest stand we have taken,
"for the good of Farmington," is for
an improved dBily mail service, which
has also promptly borne fruit. Al
ready the service to this city has been
improved, and the postoffice depart-
ment is now looking carefully into
the prevailing conditions that have
militated against cmcient service, so
there is abundant reason to believe
that grievous oversight in this regard
will soon be remedied.
Such a record during the past eight
months, not to mention the innumer- i
able things of perhaps lesser import
ance, which we have been struggling
to have corrected, is not a bad rec-,
ord. Of course, we have not in every
instance succeeded fully in accomp
lishing our purpose, though in sev
eral of these our efforts have brought
forth ready appreciation and assist
because we know the wumen all
nrove of all the improvements
an -
for
Thero may be a few knockers here
and indeed it would be a most ex
ceptional community if there were not
who will say that The Times editor
is too new in this community to pose
as a crtiic. But are we "posing as a
critic?" We deny the charge. We
are standing out openly and above
board for a bigger and better Farm
ington and St. Francois county. And,
in a manner, at least, we believe that
a stranger can more readily recog
nize the shortcomings of a town or a
community than can one who has re
sided in that community for years.
Anyway, The Times fights in the
open, for what it believes to be just
and right; and this paper will always
be pleased to share space with those
who may not agree with us. We do
not claim infallibility. You may be
right, and we may be wrong. If so,
we will most sincerely thank you for
enabling us to "get right."
But one thing we need, and must
have, in order to get the best results
from the correction work that The
Times has undertaken, is more ready
and zealous support when you be
lieve in the work we are attempting
to perform. If you are for it, come
out in the open and frankly say so.
Should you oppose it, you should also
be as frank. In this way, and in this
way only, can an understanding be
reached, whereby we can all work for
the common good.
But, even at the risk of being called
a "knocker," The Times management
, proposes to continue to suggest, and
to fight for, those things it believes is
for the good of this city and ccunty.
If that sort of thing defines the
"knocker", then that means us. But
we have always been known, from our
earliest recollection, as a "booster."
Whatever we may be, we are thor
oughly in love with our new home,
and we are unwilling that anyone
should do more in helping to push
along Farmington and St. Francois
county than we. Will you help in such
splendid work?
The WateVs Fine
The cruise of the battle-scared old
ship up Salt River last week did not
appear to be so excrutiatingly pain
ful as such a pilgrimage is usually
supposed to be to those on board. The
passenger list was numerous, the
craft being loaded to the guards, and
yet very little "kicking" or "knock
ing" was heard, even though none of
those aboard were taking the "trip"
of their own choosing.
The weather was good and the wa-
1 ter was reported fine, and practically
all on this voyage seemed determined
to make the best of it. lhat s right,
boys. The Good Lord loves a cheerful
loser.
