Ik
Sentinel
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1916.
NUMBER 15.
The Committer Sleet.
llotli the licpuhllcan oml Demo
cratic county committee met ,ln this
city, Tuesday, August 8. These com
inltlccmcn were recently chosen nt
the primary by tlic iiualilieil voter of
their townships, nml under the law nrc
requited to meet on the first Tuesday
following their Fclection. and elTcct
nn organization.
A tie vote existed In Minton town
rhlp, hot wren Tom Hunker and CIiiik.
Williams, and under Section fihXI,
which provides that the tic shall bo
decided bv the ennvnssers, the lot fell
to Mr. William, as the committee
man. The Itepublirann met In the Court
llnue, and were called to order by
Frank Wnlker. chairman, and Secre
tary Oakley Morris cnlled the mil,
und the following nnswered:
lllgolow. Frank Walker.
dentin, W. I!. Swopc.
Lewis. II, M. Dungnti.
Liberty, John .McJunkln.
Finest, W. II. Swope, for II. I.,
r.vorson.
Minton, Tom Hunker, for Chns. WIN
Hams.
Clay, M. C. llrumbauKh.
The chnlr announcing n quorum bo
irifT present, the committee proceeded
to elTcct nn nrganlrntlnn by selecting:
Fiank Walker, of Higclown, chair
man. Oakley .Morris, of Denton, n secre
tary. Jn. A. Williams, of Foibcr, ii
treasurer.
An interesting point will have to bo
decldeil by the committer. It seem
that I. K. hidings, an old ami highly
respected cltlien of Clay township, of
the King drove district, received Co
votes nt the primary for Judge of the
County Court, for the Second Ills
trict, and nn one huvlng llled for the
ofllcc, hi name wn written In on tho
blank space on the ballot. I he legal
ly the nominee; lin the county com
mittee the rbfht to name a candidate
over Mr. biding?
Tim ,ltt,.l,,.n n,,,,,,.nn.l In ...nn, . 4
Forest City. Friday, August 18, at i"f clt"'
11 a. in. The bilde
I lie Democratic committee met, and
like the l!epuhlicnn, had a bare
'iiortim, with which to do business.
It wa called to order, and the follow
Intr nnswered roll call:
Liberty, Thomn Illne.
Lewi, K. 0. l'hlllip, for Cha. J.
Hunker.
Iligclow-, Allen .Stanley.
Henton. Dr. K. M. Sillier.
Nodaway, Huirh llrohnn.
Forest, L I'. Watson.
Sllnton. (J. D. Chunlng.. .
The business of effecting an orga
nization wan quickly diipoed of by
selecting:
Thomas Mine, of Liberty, a chair
man. Allen Stanley, of Iligclow, or sec
rctary. Ocorgc I'oyntcr, of IIIrcIow, an
treasurer.
The committee ndlournrd to meet at
Forct City, on Friday. August 18, at
11 a. m.
The following arc the committee
men of the county:
ItKPUIILICANS:
Hlgelow Frank Walker
Henton W. It. Swope
Clay ., St. C. Hrumbaugh
Forbes '.....J. A. William
Forest II. I Kvcrson
Lincoln August Henstorf
Nodaway J. C, Slorri
Lewi Harry M. Dungan
Liberty John McJunkln
Minton Charles Williams
Union K. I.. (lalracy
Hickory II. J. Illllcy
DEMOCRATIC:
Hlgelow Allen Stanley
Henton Dr. K. SI. Miller
Clay 0. F. Dcllord
Forbc J. A. Slilnc
Forest U P. Watson
Hickory Jesse Cain
Lincoln Icn Walter
Nodaway Hugh Ilrohun
Lewis Charles Hunker
Liberty T. H. Hlnes
Minton 0. D. Chunlng
Union Carlyle Randall
mwrr
I rat scq w t act ,'V.T,T t k,
h i untie ocian I
nil wi&'&ri
L v-. mrm i 11 , w mil
News Snapshots
Of the Week
An explosion of mnmuntlliin roiisl-i.iil l the idle, ul lll.i.l; Tm, .V, .1., ro'licl itn stnlexi dniitiiLV dmie In New York illy.
Hrooklyn, 1 It 1 1- Miari, I.U:ly Maud mid other ..m for mile nnxiiiil rnun tln itiitciisvloii ntnl ll) lug shriipnel Pnuiclit the
up to $'.(H"i.(i: only six Ihi-s en lot, Ikmumt. A sitIkih strike thil up m:ui inr lilies In New York city and Itinnt
ri.iil the whole Iniri.t s.isliin. The rreiith ull l.i Jll-li i (TiHl' sl.iil.ciinl, while tlic Itusl.tli. uiMurltii; llnxlv. Ilirrali'inil
'., in rru mid nhcr linMirl.iiit plnce. The stilncn IIiut lieiilsi'lilninl -i.nil her ilnsli fur home. I'cr lie strong elTon to ae Mm. linger Ciisrinenl,
trl'li ii'tnli.ll.'iibi. n hmiil In Ijiuilninl for libih iii'iimui lluulie" -tore tin WINoii .iilinii.l-lnili.'ii us lie I uitltlully Itotltlvtl of the Kcnubltcou tioiulnatluu
fol picldi'iit. The .un I.iim of ll.e liniil-li Wvl llidlv fr f-.,Mii.WO ini.ie up in the m iiuIv.
A Happy I'alr. Will Fennel anil family were St.
One of those happy occasion that J"'lli shoppers, last Filday.
means so much to the principals, so Sir, (ieoige I.ehmer wn shop
much In weal or woe, so much of cloud ping In St. Joseph, Inst Friday,
or sunshine, orciirred nt the home of .)r, K'ramey report n boy baby
.Mrs. Jennie lloyd, on edncsilny nf- ,rn to Hoy .Matthew and wife, on
ternoon, August !i, I!il(i, at U'M August i.
o'clock, when l.er daughter. Slaigarrt i,.,ilnl. Klmm u im,l.
I., became the wife of Thoma D. V,,,1 '"5 ' tl ' Jw. vrnr at
DraVe. in the piesence of only Imrne- ?!?"''. i , , 1 ' ti m,nK rnr nt
dlato member of the family, the cer- w,n; t-"'""-
emony luliig iierformcd by llev. T. A. 7" i " 'iT .I1',"." nni1 iDrc
uingclt, or tlie I'resliyterlan chuirh, v,,Jj,.y,,, " "-w iimen
I'lirli-nif New.
.1. W. Hill n n passenger to St.
Jo-cph, Monday.
--.Mr. and Sir. A. Wake spent Sun
la) In St. Joseph.
.lee Minton wn n pascng(r to
St. Joseph, Slomlay.
Irn rwfimm and wife spent Sun
ln with li. Will Twyman.
I.eo Meyer was n guest nt the (J.
II. Sllnton hoir.e, over Sunday.
Jesse Knhn mnde n business trip
o M. .!., t.ii, iiicsiin or till week
horse. so after dinner he went down
to I'niti'-riio. nml boiluht nil S-1 0 .Mo
gul engine from llounnl f: Co. He
Ird v.nltcd ore dnv too late in sub-
st t'Jtlnir the lion horse. Hint nlirht
one of hi best horse died fiom the
elTrt of the helve bent nml ovel
exertion. I n-l Suinln ti number of Sir. and
Mi. I lal sim's friends fiom I'obitison,
Knti.-n. inotoied over uud spent the
liiy Willi tbi'i'i. Tl.e visitor uuei
.Mr. n-nl .Mr. J. It. Clin. Sir. nml .Mr.
fount) Srhool Xotr.
At the teacher' examination held in
Mound Cit. Inst FrMav nml Sntur.
day, twenty-live ttncl.rrs tlnlshcd up
un'ii exnmiuaiioiis inr u.e jinr. uw
ing to the hint, the exnerlence una
nnj thing Int n pleasant one the mer
cury leglslereil 100 degree both af
ternoons right in the school room.
All the children In the rural school
who will belong to the "A" eta this
)enr, whether in the 7th or Mb glade,
will do fth grade woik, nml should
have the following hook! Cum Lit
erary liiailer. Wi htrr-Coolcy llook'2
Language nnu iitnmtnnr. nml Kent
and Kellogg' l.e-son in Higher Kng
llshi Thomas' History of the United
States. Conn's Kleirenlnry Physiology
nud lt)giene. Hunt' I'logressivu
Speller: lluikett. Stevtn nml Hill Ag
rirultuii'i Ibiili'i' Civil iiieinmer.ti
I'incllenI Hmuitig Hmik h: Slradninn
Writing I'nd K
All rhlliticn ul.o will belonir to Dm
"II" clns this jinr, whetht r in the Mil
or nth grade, will do nth grade work
tins yinr, ami should have the follow
ing books: Searson A: Slnrtln Head
ing Hook '.: Wentworth-Smltli Com
plete Arithmetic; Ui lirtei-Cooley
Hook '2 l.nngunge; Fre' (Iinmmn'r
School (I'cogrnphyj Davison' Hcnlllt
Lessons: SlouryV First Steps In HI
toryi Hunt' I'rogiesslve Spcllerj
I'inrtlrnI Dinning Hook ll; Stenilman
Writing I'nd fi.
Chlldien Ix-longlng to the "C" cln,
whether In the ::d or 4th grade, will d.
-t tli grade woik, excepting In arith
metic, anil will need the following'
Imok: l'roglcssle ltd Hinder; Uiver
side .'Id Header; Wi bster-Cnoley Lang
unge Hook 1; Frye' First Step in
lieoginphy: Hunt's I'rogiessive Spell
er; Wentworth New elementary
Arithmetic; I'tncticnl Dinning Hook
li Sleailmnn Writing I'nd I.
Childien In the '.M glade will need
l'iogrelve 2d Hinder; First Jour
ney In Niimbeilninl: Ainold' With
I'eiiril and I'eu l.migunge Ik ink; Prac
tical Drawing Hook 'J; Slendmnn
Wilting I'nd :
11 !..... 1.. .....I M... I...... I
, .. ,.' . ' - A. v. Miiu nmp mnile n liusluessr" " ',' : . ' V. ' ' i 'l 1 hl'dren In the 1st guide will nenl
I a woman dear to n , (i.u" doecker, ol Slound City, w a t in to Si. Jose.li. Monday of thisl v''. J (; 1 k ', J' ' ' ' First I'njs In School; Piogre.
argc c rc c or fr em her friendshln "vn .,' nmng uie ginu nanu iei:. : : ,., ,.. n- - 'list liiniler; rrnctlcal Draw ng
extending a far and wide a ac- ," ,ll,u' UwW. -Mollle and Florence Sfn-t. of''11'' Ivn; "rnm"' .Snn.c Hook 1; .Stiadnmii Writing Pad 1. See
.'ualmann.shlpnL.nds So splendid- -W. I!. Ilosuell. of Hickory town- I "'Is J'lty. nre guest of Mr. nud Mr. I 'fM&.'HXn ,,,M. tlw rl,IM,,n ln '"' ,M nml
IV eiiulnneil for her new obi Utlnn ship, had a car of bug on the St. Jo- J'"1 Monb.. ...... .V.? ,n.,1, '."h'.' . " V1. " . !." ginde. esperli.ll. nie prol.lcd with
hat come to her; so kindly In dispo- li market, Fridny Inst. tu i.ei.vi r nml l.ll i'i s uoit lire ""'""" ... ,it: "i ,,r,,t will Vr,7.,-T ,T,7. "m. nm' "'".V1, . . .
Ition ami so domestic in taste. It: Chnrle nchi.mn I remodeling . sipn, tins with, visiiing us. ''"r jji ir. Hniiin ..!a '','"'" l"J n"P i'?K over
that t e LMDoin ouL'ht In In. nn r.ml urn. ..in Nlmr hi. fn .,.,. ' m nxer. . im "si raieiuny, anil ploviue Jour
-iii. lllhkie mm wile moioiiii mil r tin ren Wil l the necessarv liook lie-
t
s!
seems
exceedingly hnnpy mnn if he Isn't, the old John II. King pin
we preiiict the rnuu will iny with him. Chnrlov Sloe, wlf.. n,,,l ,,,. nf
The groom come to u with the Salem. Nebraska, nie here enjoying n
i-uiuui'ii in iii'iiik u iiui-i eemplay tvisii un reiaiives nnu irienil.
joung man, and engaged In the oll u n pleasure to see Henri-.
I.us nes at Sour Lake, Tcxe. v. here (Jell aguln nt hi pot of duty wit i
he I enjoying a good business. the Fltts-Hunker Company, nflcY sev-
The bride wore a suit of navy blue oral week' Illne.
uiit-iu. itmi nut nnu Kiove 10 luaic.l. I r I. ti l si . ,
Ihey left In.meillntely after the cere- J'i'iV,flrroVCT
iiony for a trin to Kansas and oil ir Maigaiet llaugh, of Trenton,
lce,.Trn a l!!l,.f bonneTmlo,;,, when' , ffa g,wriW ".,-e
hey will go to Sour Lnke. to begin " I., ,.K " '
heir work of home building, and will , Ml Lou Petreo returned Wed.
tnlTeta. with hat and clove to mntrY
iney leu immeiiintely niter the cere
......... s.. . . , i , ..
Ml
th
the
be at home after Sentemher 1
i lie uiii M'tuinel, Willi li the brido
hn been rending since she wa a
little tot, send Its sincere congratu
lations, wishing for .Margaret and her
life partner n long, sweet, beautiful
life.
Slabbed In a Quarrel.
iiesdny morning from Klrksvlllc. SI
where she hu been attending the
Normal theie, this summer.
J. I. Henninger and wife have oc
cupied the .Mr, lloyd propcrtv. in the
western addition, the lloyd fo'mllv go
ing to New .Mexico, seeking Improve
ment in health.
W. S. (llirord. of the Curron ill
trict, who had hi arm broken clo
sing mo track at that place, July lis,
r.iiauu iiui.ii i. ui. iiii'n in a precon-1 , " . i"ui
ou condition at hi home. In Nanlcr, , ,in", rVl"'nr',1 to. t,le bosiital, accom
s..u - i. ..... li Tmnin.1 nv hlu ,iIrn
iui ii nri'n or more, n ine result or ' "'
being stabbed by Joe Dodge, on I Paul Sillier and family, of St. Jo.
Thursday of last week, August .'hi. Ji'I'h. nro here on their way home
Hush and Dodge urc brothcr-in-1 f ra" Chlcogo, enjoying u visit with
law, nml live on adjoining places ml,10r Pcnt8, Sir. and Sir. Jnme It.
Nanlcr. Hush ha a nlc nen nn M
place, the odor from widen irn been
very olfenslve to Dodge, who desired
it to bo removed or cleaned up in such
a way us to remove Its offensiveness,
it is sniii. tins led up to a iiunrrcl
between the men. about the hog pen,
and the result of the melee was that
Dodge put his knife Into several parts
of Hush' anatomy, tho worse In
cision being in the right abdomen,
and the fleshy part of tho right back.
iiiisn was iokcii io nm home, anil
Drs. Hullnck and Lafe Sllnton were
J. H. Knolh Die.
J. II. Knoth, our city tailor, a kindly
gentleman, and one who lived alone,
quiet and unpretentious, and attended
strictly to his own affairs, died at tho
home of his daughter, Sirs. U W.
Karri, In St. Joseph, on Saturday lost,
August S, 1010, aged 74 years, having
been born in Hesse, Germany.
Ho Is survived by threo daughters,
Mrs. L. W. Darrl, Mrs. H. F. ScIrTcrt
and Mrs. 0. F. Koss, and one son,
William; two sisters, all of whom re
side in St. Joseph. The funeral ser
vices were held Monday.
John II. Kunkel and wife, of this
city, personal friends, attended the
funeral.
At Death's Door.
A telegram was received Saturday
morning last by Will, James and Andy
Morris, announcing tho alarming Ill
ness or their maiden aunt, Aliss Mary
Campbell, at her homo ln Tumoy.
Missouri. Mrs. James C. Morris anil
niece. Miss Mattle, left Saturday af
ternoon to be at her bedside. She has
recently passed her four score years,
and was the daughter of Ezcklal
Campbell, who located in Andrew
county, cast of Avenue City in 1841,
at that time known as Spencer's Mill.
Her mother was tho last of this
branch or the Campbell family.
unil iiuit. iiuniiin upm n .
called, and got real busy patching un I , ,0Wii;c;.ir.lh.c," tho h,,,,p
tho wounded man, and wh e this was I Z V Vi ; n Vui""oul'0 "ur "
going on, the excitement running f? P..'0"' .r." Out
high. Doilue took "French
without leaving his sibirean with his
brother-in-law, and as a consequence
aiiviui iivivin goi uuBy, ami alter a
few ilnvs' ftlmonro ivJinn i , is again a vcrv sick man:: JInri-v I,
hnmP. nml nn T.ina.la.. CI IJ IlianV friends In Anil aMUtiil n.'n.,.n
mniin Ihn nrrnst nt nA.lAa 1. IT- I Who Will reifrpt in hf.nt tkU n, Iw, l.nu
was taken beforo F.suulrc VanCamn. i n?'' nu?r. .than h's share of troubln
.1 I 1 f ...... . . I ' IllAni. tl.la linn nn..l.a ...1
uiiu naivcu preliminary neanng to i " " '-, iik unuergone iwo
the charge of assault with Intent (0 1 operations.
Dr. Martha Petreo arrives this
week from her home in Paris, Ken
tucky, for a visit with her brother,
Frank Petree and family, of Oregon.
and her brothers, llev. C. E. and Ar
thur Petree. of St. Joseph. Her moth
er, who has been visiting her, accotp-
paniea ner nere.
Drown, and sister, Sirs. Jessie Quick,
Joseph lllloy came up from St.
Joseph, lust Thursday, to visit In
brother. Juincs Itlley and family. Ho
returned home Frida1 morning, no
companicd by SI is Vclyma Slaikt,
who returned home Saturday.
J. II. Fry, wlillo working at the
Chautauqua grounds, Tuesday, putting
down the sents, a heavy piece of tim
ber fell on his ankle, and so bruisiil
It, us to cause him to go on erutcln.
ur. ivearney oressed the ankle,
. a t.. fn . .1. . . ...
V." J ""1 vtaru anil win,
SlcCown, both of Craig, and Sir.
Anna Shalfler, of the llagby district.
llarry Johnston, of Kansas City,
kill, and cave bond In thn sum nt tr.nn
iu appear ai me ucioocr term of our
circuit court.
lhe warrant was issued by Justice
VanCamn on (nfnrmnllnn fllml t...
Proseeutlng Attorney Tibbels.
un laio reports it appears that Hush
is getting along nlcclv. and does not
expect to climb tho golden stairway
Just now ho proposes to wait a while.
Sliss Marlon nml Mneftn,. V..w,ii.
Benjamin returaed to their home in
St Joseph, Sunday, after spending n
pleasant two weeks, visiting at (lien
if,"0 !,,arm' Jugt nort of town, with
.i ,yo an' Master Slax Foster.
Miss hnyo accompanied them home.
. Henry Wcls has como hack from
l oblnson, Kansas, where he visited 1 inothe; Trla soon
his son, Amos, anil James Foster, and I anK0rr,cscU0 'as
Ihsio hro nM rrnn n, . .1 i. roriescuo i.as
anil Henry says Amos has splendid
crop prospects, his wheat turning out
about 25 bushel nor nm .! 1,1c
, corn is looking fine. Ho had 00 acies
in wneai.
a-il spent Sunda with their mother,
M'. will llinme. Hrnlini
1 1 i tl.i.i ...i .. i .... i ..i 1 in num.
.7. : ".'.. f ' ""t ""V : -Crawford I'ntliir is threshing in
.eft for Ills home In On gen. .Monday!' 'I,,f. lyl'f'jbnrhoo.l. This illy weather
On Ills Vacation. k
Will II. Currv. of tho Indlananolls
Times staff, is home for a week', vn.
catlbn with his parents, the Junior, t. , .
and wife of Tho Sentinel, his sister, ' T i 1 p(le IVc,cr8' of V01""1 cit''
Sirs. J. J. Ilayhlll, and aunts ami '1B,8I many. former school chums
uncics.
Curr
Joyci
s. J. J. Ilayhlll, and aunts ami i "V am "s ,or',"cr "fi.1001
:lcs, his grandmother, Mrs. Mary l ".' H,!U,rcKrct '? 'carn fho has
rrv, who now 80 years of age, en-1 omuh r 5m total y bJ,n' ', s0n
cd a seat at the table at a family i,"1?,?5 JMs xl'cck; he left for
joycu a seat at tlie table at a family K" T,-"r. ;""" "llR; enc lc" lur
dinner in his honor at the C. D. Zook I i''L ttcr Minnesota, for treatment,
homo last Sunday. Ho Is another of I ?cc,?n a,n'cd W her aunt, Sirs. Piper.
ivansas uty
the many young men who sot his first
stick of type in this old printery that
is matting goon in ino newspaper Held.
He has gradually won the favor of the
Times' proprietors, and while he has
nan cnarge or various departments
and made good, he is now- in charge
of the Art and Drama department of
this caner. and keens his end unil
supplied with copy, and you never
have to yell "Copy"' on him It is 1-
rcauy man on um.
and Bister, Sirs. Claud Prlvett, of
niiDaa Wll
Sir. and Mm. .Tnlm i)oki, .,r
Oakland, California, are enjoying a
visit with Mrs. Beckett's aunt, Sirs.
Matilda Teare, and other relatives, in
forest City. They spent several days
in Oregon this week with Mr. and
Mrs. Howard S. Teare, who are,
cousins, and they also visited the
Stephensons. M.rfctl. and nthnr. u-hn
i relatives.
Mr. ami Sir. Clint Muse, of KII-
wood Kansas, ient Snturdny nud
Sunday with W. II. Stuait and ramlly.
Sir. Hill enteitnlneil u number nf
hi friend witli n imrtv nt hi cot
tage, on lllg l.nko. Sloudny evening.
Mr. nml .iir. Ulyile .Mcliowell. nr
nenr Crnlg, spent Sundny with their
paients, Sir. ami Sir. Win. .McDowell.
.Ml. J, I- Sllnton hn been quite
III the past few day. She I now
much better ami I able to bo about.
.lay Sllnton, who attend the
State University, nt Columbia, Mo.,
will return home Tuesday even inr of
thi week.
.Ml. Will ink e hn been in St.
Joseph, visiting her niece, SIlsH
r rankle .Mrlnnn, who I reported to
be quite ill.
Mr. J. It. Minton, Mi Nell Min
ton and A. W. VnnCnmp spent Sunday
in Oregon, the guest of Sir. ami Sir.
W. II. Alklre.
Sid Dean and wife, from (ultmnn,
SIo., stopped mi their return fr a
tour through Florida, and visited Sir.
and Sir. Noiman Hutrick.
Knil Keeny I tlie guest of our
banker, Dirk Poynler. They were
both entertnltied over Sunday by Ceo,
Poynter and wife, of Hlgelow.
SI. L. liaison, manager of the Ar
kansas Valley Lumber Company, sold
two new houses this week one to
Fred St. John, and one to J, F. Ilrldg
mon. Sir. Ceo. Sillier has returned
from a few weeks visit with her
mother, In Wakefield, Kansas. Slio
wa accompanied home by her sister,
Sliss Hlnnehc Harnett.
A. W. VnnCamp leaves Wednes
day for n trip In tlie Fast. He will
make stop-overs at Chicago, Henton
Harbor, Slich.. Hulfaln and Philadel
phia. He will be home about Sep
tember f.
I think It Is due Sir. Twyman
hero, as an accommodating citizen of
Fortescue, to say a word of comment
in regard to his moving picture show.
The pictures ore clear und steady, and
have always been found to bo good
moral sccnarlc.
The balloon ascension was welt
attended, last Saturday night. Sir.
Meyer, the man who made the ascen
sion, is said to have been much dis
appointed at tho results, but owing to
tho condition nf the air, other results
were impossible. Ho intends to mako
duitc on epidemic
of typhoid fever. Four of Nouh
Steele h children hnvo been stricken
with this dreaded disease one has re
covered, but the other three aro in a
serious condition. Dr. Slinton is at
tending the cases. He has called In
the service of a trained nurse, Sliss
Sports, from St. Joseph, who is as
sisting him.
Last Saturday, while returning
from Ilulo. tho team driven by Hob
Lewis anil Chas. Ramsey, became
frightened at an automobile and
whirled, throwing the occupants of
the buggy to the ground. Chas. Itam
sey was unconscious for several hours
and his injuries were found to be a
broken rib, and Lewis' collar bono and
one shoulder was broken.
' Emnictt Hinkle lost n valuable
horse, last Friday. He hod begun his
fall plowing for wheat. The ground
Was hard,and the weather extremely
hot. A half day's work convinced K.
E. that' it could not be done with
is llni-'H.r mat, but Imw we nreil lain.
Mis F.liznhcth Field left the first
of the week for Clifcngn, wheie sho
will make an extended visit with her
sister. Sir. (Jrecnhnlgh.
The young people of tlie liobelt
Kmerson family nml Sliss Until Allen
went llshlng on the Cannon lake, one
day, last week. They had a flue time,
bout riding, etc., but did not eaten
many tlsh.
After trying overs thing hcnnl or
read of ami tried as an experiment to
kill tlie cabbage worm, we tiled this
tlie soot, scraped from miller the oven
mid put on plentifully, mid they nre
gone, every one.
.ills uutli Allen, ol Ytiioilvillc,
visited several day, last week, with
her I norm, Kohcitn l.meison, return
ing homo Thursduv evening, with her
sister. Charlotte, who came to spend mV(, ,,.c,.vM K.nt benellt from
fine the llrst day of school, September
t. and save any delay In the work of
the school jenr?
The August tenchei' meeting will
eenveeo Tlo.jU. j I-'iMiv befnnt
the opening of school; the date will
be August III and September I. We
expert to hnve tlie program for this
meeting In the note next week. This
I the meeting provided for by law,
which I to convene In the county seat
before tlie ojienlng of school, nml ev
ery tencher In tlie county, whether 'if
rural, guide or high school, to be
ex'icctril to be In attendance.
F.vcry teacher In the county holding
n Stnte certificate, Normal diploma,
I logon t's ceititlcnte, or Hural certifi
cate, will legister sucli certlllcato
with the county superintendent at this
meeting.
On rrlilny, the tencher nml school
boanl member will have a Joint meet
ing in the new high school building in
Oiegon. Slnny of the school iliiector
or tlie enmity liuve told me that they
Hint day at tlie itobeit Kmerson home,
Ifussel. the elght-s ear-old son or
I. L. Andler nml wife, was kicked by
a mule, last Filday evening, und bad
ly hint a gush in Ids foielieud und
one In the nose, the nose broken and
the upper lip laid open, lhe little
fellow suirereil irreatlv until 111. Hoy
.Miller and Qulglcy, of .Mound City,
were called, am) took several stitrlie
and mail' him more comfoitable. His
these meting. A vciv few nf our
school districts were not lepiesented
In these meeting Inst year. Will not
every eleik nml president, at least,
make an elfort to be here on Fridny,
September 1?
I wisli every school board in the
county to consider ihe advisability of
meeting once each month witli thn
teacher or faculty. Several school
.l,,n,,U !,... ,,,l.,.,l..,l ,1,1., ..Inn .iM-ln,.
pvori ll'sm hW'olli'n rntllrlv shut finlt.n ....... ...t.i. ji. . -n
Sunday, but the swelling is ledticeil.
ami lie l getting along nicely, and wo
hope for a speedy recovery.
VKHITAS.
Head lladly Cut.
Judge Peter Halscr Is going around
with hi bead bandaged, at If he had
met some great prize fighter In the
ring.
Tho Judge was doing some woik on
a bridge, nenr his home, on Friday of
lust week, August 4, and wa using
a double bit ax. He was cutting away
sumo rubbish from under the floor,
and the ax so glanced that the under
mt or the ax struck Mr. Halscr fn the
head, Inflicting an ugly gash, which
necesslatcd the taking of several
stitches. Dr. Kvans was called and
did the sewing act, and the Judge was
able to attend court tills week.
Cone to California.
Frank Harmon and family,
of
lu.tn iiiuii nun iuihiij, wi
Mound City, have, removed to Cafifor
nla, where they go to be with their
son, who Is in pour health.
For 110 years Sir. Harmon has beer,
identified with the very commercial
life of that city, and bis going will bo
ielt by tho people of that city and sec
tion. Ho is of such a happy tempera
ment as to win his way close to tho
hearts of those with whom he mingiuj.
Wo bono time may restore tho bciltli
of their dearly beloved boy.
Y. P. A. Notes.
Miss Sllnnle Uuetzcr was the leader
of an exceedingly good meeting, last
Sunday. There will be no meeting
August 13, giving tho members an op
portunity to attend Chautaunun. Sirs.
A. L. Shafer will lead tho Alliance
meeting, Sunday, August 20. Please
attend, ir possible. ittTOKTEK.
Bun Duncan, one of tho best old
souls in our county, was here Friday
of last week, .bavin business with
I Aiwrnty rente.
44 J AaffK jffji-.
the past year witli profit to all con
cerned.
AI.HKHTA fillKKN-SIUIlPIIV,
County Superintendent.
A (ulil Wedding.
There was a very uulct weildini?.
Tuesday evening of this week, August
N, at the home of Sir. and Sirs. Sam
Hughes, In this city, when their
niece. Miss Ada It. Held, of torbe.
became the wife of Cecil, son of Sir.
ami Sir. S. P. Perkins, of this city,
llev, vt. (J. Johnson, o. tho Evangeli
cal church, saving the words that
made tbeso two excellent young
people husband and wife. They were
attended by the bride's sister, Sliss
ivntiicrmc, ami iron ll. .Martin.
Slay they live long and prosper is
tho sinrern wish of a host of young
friends. They left for Tablo Hock,
Nebraska, .Wednesday noon, whero
they will reside.
Oil for Lawrence.
The annual convention of the
younger workers of tho Kvangcllcal
church is In session at Lawrence, Kan
sas, and Holt county Is represented
by Italnh Fry, delegato for the Y. P.
A., and Maude Fcuerbacher, for tho
Sunday school, at Oregon. Sirs. W.
C. Johnson accompanied them. From
Nickcll'a drove, Dwight Zachman,
Charles Fuhrman are the delegates
for the Y. P. A., and Edna Fuhrman
for tho Sunday school. Sliss Florence
Fuhrman and Sirs. Albert ' NoelUch
accompanied them.
Real Estate.
Tho July real estate transactions
were below those of a year ago as
to warranty deals by $30,000, while
the trust deals filed were some 118,000
larger. The real estate market is
slow and sluggish, and dealer are not
overly busy. The transactions involv
ing $S,000 or more were:
W. O. Coneland to Ralph Jfc '
Hoed, lands, in 8, 62, 87. .120000
Julia A. Minton to Geo. lT. Hln
Julia A. Minton to Geo, H. Da-
Tb, 3K 29, 61, KM
