THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX -NO. 126.
HARIIK, VERMONT, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1910.
Pit ICE, ONE CEXT.
FRENCH BEGIN
A NEW ATTACK
Have Opened a Heavy Bom
bardment of German Po
sitions North of Somme
MADE- A SORTIE
ON RIVER MEUSE
Italians, Pressing Their Ad
vantage, Capture 1,500
More Austrians
GERMAN AEROPLANES
IN ROMBARDMENT
Berlin Reports That They Made Success
ful Attacks on British War Vessels
Off Flemish Coast and on Rus
sian Aviation Stations.
Berlin, An?. II. SiiM-(.ful attack by
Or ma u air squadrons on British war
vessel off the Flemish coast and on Rus
sian aviation station on Ocsel island
were announced by t lie admiralty to day.
MEDIATION
IS HALTED
Because of Railroads' Re
fusal to Grant More '
Than Arbitration
POLITICS DISPLACES LAW-MAKING.
CROWD CLASH
WITH POLICE
Paris. Aiiir. 11. The French have
opened a heavy bombardrnent of Gorman
tuvaitinna north of the Somme, pays the
j
official statement.
On the left bank of the Meuso the
French took some prisoners in a raid on
German trenched.
AUSTRIANS TRYING
TO RE-FORM LINES
Are Making a Stand on Line Extending
from Vipaco to Tarnova Battle
Rages on Front of Dozen
Miles.
Rome. Aug. 11. The importance of tbo
Italian successes around Goritzia is be
comincr more evident hourly. The battle
continues behind the city over a front of
nboiit 12 miles. The Austrian are at.
tempting to re-form their front on a line
extending from vipaco to larnova.
ITALIANS TAKE A TOWN
Have Fought Their Way to the East of
Goritzia.
London. Aug. 11. Both the Italians
anil the. Russians are keeping up their
strnns offensives nirainst the Teutonic
allies, respectively, in Austria and Ga
licia and at lust report both had made
additional important cams.
On the lsonzo front the Italians have
continued to throw their forces across
the river and have fought their way to
the east of the captured citv of Goritzia
In addition southwest, of Goritzia they
have taken strong Austrian entrench
ments near Monte San Michele and
Monte San Martino and also occupied
the town of Bosehini, giving them a freer
band for their operations in the region of
the Doberdo plateau and southward to
ward the Jfonfaloone sector. A large
number of prisoners were taken in the
fighting.
Vienna in admitting the loss of Gorit
2ia savs the evacuation followed the re
pulse of the Italian attacks on the Do
berrla plateau and that the straightening
of the Austrian lines made necessary by
the operation was carried out without
molestation from the Italians. Vienna
also reports that 4,100 Italians have been
made prisoners in the recent lighting in
this region.
In Gallcia in the sectors of Stanislau
ami Halich the Russians have driven their
forces farther westward in their endeavor
to capture the central portion of the
railroad running from Kolomea to Lem
berg. Passing across the Monasterzyska
Kiznioff railway they had forded the Zio
ta Li pa river, southeast of Halich, and
couth of Stanislau have captured the
town 'of Kryplin on the Stanislau-Nad-worna
railroad.
The Berlin official communication says
that along the front of Archduke Charles
Francis in Galioia, southwest of Wclesni
ow and south of the Dniester, new posi
tions have been occupied by the Teutonic
allies in accordance with previously ar
ranged plans. Russian attacks along the
Strumen and Stokhod rivers were re
pulsed with sanguinary losses to the Rus
sians. Another big battle has started
near Brody, in northern Galicia.
SHOT HIS WIFE IN
JEALOUS RAGE
Eugene Weeks of Westport, N. II., In
flicted Several Wounds, Which May
Prove Fatal, and Then
Fled to the Woods.
Keene. N. H.. Aug. 11. Between S
and !t oYloek last night Eugene Weeks
32 vears of ace. son of E. R. Weeks, in a
!...!. -. u . : .-..I
jealous rage snot nis win-, wm -
vears Ins junior, three times with a re
volver at their home in the hamlet of
Westport in the town of Swan.ey, near
here.
In the course of bis wild attack, Char
ley, the seven-year-old sou of Week by
a "former marriage, w as hit in the foot by
a stray bullet but not seriously hurt
The 'woman, who was Mary Green of
Greene. R. L. before her marriage to
Weeks, was hurried to the Elliott City
hospital in this citv in the automobile of
George Scott of Winchester, anil she lies
there in a critical condition, with bullet
uounds in the chest, abdomen and head
The doctors are probing for the bullets,
but so far without success.
The couple were married only a few
months ago and the woman Hart rerurnea
but a few davs since from a visit to her
parents in Rhode Island.
Weeks tied from the house ana inter
his coat, in the pockets of which was a
revolver with several chambers empty,
was found on the banks of the Ashuelot
river. Whether or not Weeks had com
mitted suicide is as yet undetermined.
Sheriff Edulird II. "Lord, Deputy Sher
iff Bennett and County Solicitor Philip
H. Faulkner have gone to Westport to
make further investigations.
Jealousy is thought to have been the
cause of the shooting.
EMPLOYES INSIST
ON EIGHT-HOUR DAY
BLIND GIRL DROWNED
1,500 MORE PRISONERS
Captured by Italians Since the Fall of
Goritzia.
Rome, Aug. 11. The number of prison
ers taken by the Italians since the fall of
Goritzia exceeds 1,500, declares the Tri
buna correspondent.
FIRED ON SUBMARINE
That, Is Why the Letimbro Waa Sunk,
Says Semi-Official Report.
Amsterdam, Aug. 11. A semi-official
account of the sinking by a submarine of
the Italian steamship Letimbro, received
from Vienna, says the Italians fired on
the submarine with two guns and that
troops were aboard the Letimbro.
RUSSIANS ENTER
MONASTERZYSKA
Petrograd War Office Announces That
Fighting in That Place Continues
Another Force Reaches Dneister
River Near Ilalicz.
Petrograd, Aug. 11. The Russians are
advancing on the Sereth river in Gall
cia, the war office announces. They have
also entered Monastersyska northwest of
Stanislau. The fighting continues in
Monasterzyska.
The Russians Lave reached the Dnci
Her river eight miles from the impor
tant town of Ilalicz.
MORE PROGRESS BY BRITISH
Would-be Rescuer Drowned with Her at
Georgetown, Mass.
Georgetown, Mass., Aug. 11. Bewil
dered bv cries from shore warning her
that she was going beyond her depth,
Bessie Stenofsky, aged 15, of Chelsea, a
blind girl from the Perkins institute
camp here, lost all sense of direction and
walked into deep water in rentu.cket
pond, where she was bathing last evening
with 15 other blind members ot the camp.
Her cries brought to her aid Dorothy
Estes, aged 22, of Lowell, councilor of
the camp, who, in making heroic efforts
to gave the Stenofsky girl, drowned with
her.
The girls, all of whom were blind ex
cept Miss E-stes, had gone to the pond for
the usual evening dip, and in the first lew
minutes of enjoyment it was not noticed
that the Stenofsky girl had become sep
arated from the main party. Observing
her danger, Miss Estes called out to her,
and the cries were echoed by the other
girls. The combined warnings frightened
the blind girl and in an effort to respond
quickly to their advice she chose the
wrong direction, stepping into a hole l.i
feet deep. Miss Kstes swam rapidly to
her aid and the other girls, sensing, with
the, acute faculty of 'the blind, that their
companion was in peril, cried out hyster
icallv.
Their shouts were heard by the only
cottager near, Henry Longfellow, SO
years old, who, despite his age, hastened
to the water's edge to help in the rescue.
He also endeavored to reach the drown
ing girl, but was told by Miss Estes to
bring aid from the Bhore.
When the councilor reached the side of
the Stefnosky girl (the attempted to
grasp her, but instead was grasped in the
iron grasp of the drowning. All efforts
to break the grip failed and the two girls
went down together.
Mr. Longfellow in desperation entered
the water himself, but before he could
reach the place where they had gone
down it was too late. Almost immediate
ly afterwards, however, the body of Miss
Estes floated to the surface and Mr.
Longfellow, with the aid of several other
cottagers, brought her to the shore. Ef
forts at resuscitation were made by Med
ical Examiner Richmond Root without
effect. Dr. Root was assisted by his son,
Dr. Raymond Root.
Boating parties soon began to grapple
for the body of the blind girl. After two
hours' search a boat in which Selectmen
Michael Buckley and Frank Ncalon were
rowing, brought the body ashore.
Barbara Estes, sister of the councilor,
was away from the camp at the time of
the accident, but arrived when efforts
were being made to resuscitate her sis
ter. She assisted to the best of her abil
ity. After all hope of saving her sister's
life was abandoned she controlled her
grief and declared she would bear the
sorrowful news to her family and started
for Lowell.
The bodies of both girls were removed
to an undertaking establishment and
messages were sent to both families.
Many of the blind girls who were in
bathing at the time of the accident were '
in
the director. Miss. Lane, was kept busy
attending them
There Is Threatened Rup
ture of the Efforts to
- Secure Peace
New York, Aug. 11. The efforts of the
mediators between the four railroa
brotherhoods ami their employers are at
a halt, it. was reported, because the rail
roads refused to grant any concessions
other than arbitration, while the men
persist in their stand f'' the granting
of their demands for an eight-hour day
and time and a half for overtime.
Martin A. Knapp, one of the federal
mediators, when asked whether there
had been any change in the situation
since the board begun its work, replied
There is a deadlock on the fnce of it.
Whether we can change it lien in the bos
om of the I ut lire.
Mr. Knapp said the board had not
been in communication with President
Wilson since it, arrived here. When
asked, however, if "condit ions already
hail c Miie to the point where an appeal
would li made to the president, Mr,
Knapp said lie could not discuss the mat
ter. He added that the lxmrd would con
tinue ils efforts to adjust the differences.
What concessions, if any, the railroad
managers offered to make to the men
could not be ascertained. The mediators
met the managers secretly ye-tcrda?
afternoon, remaining in conference with
them more than three hours. Two guards
were stationed outside the rooms in a
lotel whero the meeting was held.
11m mediators earlier in the iluy heard
the side of the brotherhoods, whose chief
demand is for an eight-hour working
day and time and a half for overtime.
It. was said the brotherhood would re
main firm in this position.
A. B: Garretson, president of the Or
der of Railway Conductors, and official
spokesman for the men, said that unless
the railroads made satisfactory conces
sions, the men would refuse to bind
themselves to federal mediation, and,
unless something else intervened, the
general strike order would be enforced.
It was reported that the board, unless
there is an unexpected change soon, was
prepared to suggest to President Wilson
that he intervene. W. S. Stone of the
engineers said: "We do not intend to
wait very long. The temper of the men
is such that they would not have waited
a minute if we had not persuaded them
to give the mediators a chance.
Senators Indulged in a Lively Tilt Over
Durand Case,
Washington, D. ('., Aug. II. Issues of
the national campaign crowded legisla
tion into the background yesterday in
tho Senate, and virtually the only prog
grcss made with the pending shipping
bill was the reading of the amended
measure, sandwiched between Republican
assaults on the Democratic administra
tion and Democratic defense of party
achievements, t
The Hood f partisan oratory was
started by Senator Jowuscnd (Republi
can) who made a speech supporting the
"L1? t:", ""l"? tlHt. 'v MANY INJURED
the census at the beginning of the pre
ent administration for political reasons.
Senator Jownsond asserted that Secre
tary Redfield, of the commerce depart
ment, was mistaken in stating that Mr
Durand voluntarily resigned.
Several Democrats, including Senators
Stone, Hardwlck and Hoke Smith, ex
tended their congratulations to the He
publicans for "having at last found an
issue in the Durand incident. Senator
Smith added that his onlv criticism for
v, .... ,t .lrxA ..........,
' ... J I DnlrAlT Minn Anfr II .fr l-inir el
rwnd i-,, 1, ,. . '.t,rlv rmaker. and thVir sympathizers, to the
Firemen Came to Latter's
Aid and Turned Wa
ter on Strikers
IN DETROIT RIOT
1,000 Cigarmakers and Sym
pathizers Were Fi
nally Dispersed
number of 1,000, clashed with the police
to-day and were dispersed only after re
inforcements hHd been summoned Hnd
the fire department turned two streams
on them. Many were injured.
"RECKLESSLY WASTEFUL."
Shamefully Incompetent and Extrava
gant," Declares Hughes.
Fargo, X. I)., Aug. 11. Charles E
Hughes, speaking here last night
tterly
without executive capacity."
Senator Penrose (Republican), joined
in the discussion with an attack on civil
service administration and the "hypoo
risy' of administration heads in the
Durand incident. Ignoring entirely th
shipping bill. Senators Oliver and Jones,
Republicans, and other senators on hot
side continued the political delta te for
several hours. Senator Jones said Dem
ocratie senators, in first determining to
postpone action on the child labor bill,
had set the stage for l'resident Wilson sailed the nresent administration for in
to make a senatorial visit to the ca pitol efficiency. wa8te Hnd extravagance, nar-
I ..! 11 . . . t . I . . 1 . . . ' . . . -
anil in H uicairimi a pci m Kenaiors. ticu hir v with reference rn thn r ver and
have it go out to the country that his harbor bill, recently passed by Con
' . : i i . . i. a i a r i u i
Hll. I '1 think I niflv uav withniif. rnaVini
Senator Lewis, the Democratic whip, f, Hunhes tohl his audience, "that the
replying 10 .Mr. ungues- recent reier- Urovernment of the t'nited States i reck
once to President Wilson's "too proud I,bp1v wasteful, stamefullv incompetent
ii, iigni s ncecn, siu mm. mose nu aml extravatrant .a renroac h to the ntel
admired the independent intelligence of licence of the peoplo because of its inert!
tiitr iu'fij i i linn iTi'imiii',- ut Mvjirvi iif,it ur , oienev.
naa surrenuerea io inc yeip oi niancne.
Sweetheart and J ray in the refrain of WOMAN FOUND DEAD,
too uroua to light, charging use ot the
expression as a confession of weakness or Mrg Etta Vance of Groton Died Under
cowardice on the part, of the presi-
lent, speaking for himself and his coun
try."
I hope," said the Illinois senator,
that Judge Hughes might lie saved from
the exhibition of ignorance displayed by
so many lesser but anxious assailants of
that which they did not understand. The
Peculiar Circumstances.
Groton. Aug. 11. Mrs. Etta Vance, 43,
was found dead on the bed in her home
by her nine-year-old daughter, under
somewhat peculiar circumstances.
1 he exact cause ot death is not. known
although State's Attorney Xorton of
expression 'too" proud to fight' used at Lyndonyille, who was called, expressed
Philadelphia bv the president to an audi
ence of courageous Christian people, was
the adaption to an old quotation from
the classics- ancient as the scripture. Its
meaning is known to be that a brave peo
ple filled with the consciousness of their linking when last seen.
his opinion that death was due to alco
holism. An empty bottle which had con
tained sweet spirits of nitre waa found
near the body and it was said by neigh
bors that the dead woman had been
right and conscious of their superior
strength were too proud to fight, where a
An autopsy will be performed by Dr.
Stone, the state examiner, and the or-
concession of what was right would bring Pan pnt to l,ie stat laboratory at
justice to all. The president, presumed MurungKn, wnere tue comenw oi uie
on the intelligence of his audience to un
lerstand."
The shipping bill finally was taken
up again just before adjournment, when
Senator .lories began a speech on it with
the announcement Unit he would not b.
stomach will be analyzed to see if the
spirits of nitre contained a drug that
would cause death.
The woman's husband is employed as
a section nana on the .Montpeiier &
Wells River railroad. She leaves a daugh-
THREE AUTOMOBILES
COLLIDED AND TWO
WOMEN WERE HUR
Mrs. 0. H. Hough of Providence Hovering
Between Life and Death and Mrs.
William I. Arnold, Jr., of the Same
City Seriously Hurt Acci
dent Happened Near
Fair Haven.
Fair Haven. Aug. 11. -Mrs. O. II
Hough of Providence, R. I., is hovering
between lite and death at the Hotel Al
len and Mrs. William I. Arnold, jr., of
tho same town, is suffering from severe
bruises, as a result of being pinioned be
neath a large touring car, thicli had lirst
crashed into two other machines am
then turned turtle. The accident oe
eurred at 7 o'clock last night about
mile and a half out of Fair Haven on the
Poultney road. The other occujiants of
the machine received minor cuts and
those in the other two cars were not
hurt.
One automobile was smashed beyond
repair, a second had the trout end bat
tered and a front wheel smashed, th
third machine, a Cadillac, was apparent
Iv none the worse for the collision, as
il did not stop for a moment, but disap
peared along the road in the direction
of Rutland.
Mr. and Mrs. Hough, Mr. and Mrs. Ar
nold and their chauffeur, all of Provi
lenee, in a Dodge car, were en route from
Fair Haven to Poultney. A Mitchell ma
hine, carrying Mrs. J. A. Kieger and
laughter, Stella, and eon, John, and
Webster Sawyer, all of Brookline, Mass.,
was going to Fair Haven from Poultney,
the speed of this auto being about 13
miles an hour Running parallel with
the Mitchell machine was a Cadillac with
ve passengers, whose names could not
be learned.
Coming to the brow of a hill the driv
er of the Dodge car saw the Mitchell
bearing down upon him. He turned to
the ritrht with the result that his car
crashed into both the Mitchell and Cadil
lac machines, the, rear of tho Dodge
machine striking the front of the Mitch
ell and causing it to turn turtle. In the
collision the front wheel of the Mitch
ell automobile was shattered, the radi
ator crushed in and the fenders and
ghts broken.
The Dodge car carried a top so that
in its spill the occupants were pinioned
to the ground and unable to help themselves.
Dr. Rushmore Lape of Fair Haven re-
ponded to the emergency call and the
injured persons were taken to his office
and later to Hotel Allen. The two
women received internal injuries, it is
believed, together with cuts and bruises,
Mrs. Hough having a serious gash across
her temple.
Mrs. Kieger and her daughter had been
on an extended Canadian trip. They
had stopped at Plattsburg where they
picked up John Kieger and Webster Saw
yer, who had been in training for some
"time, and were en route for Kingston,
x. y.
KILLED BY TAXICAB.
TURKEY REFUSES
U. S. REQUEST
That a Neutral Committee Be Permitted
to Undertake Relief Work in Syria,
Where Thousands Are Report
ed to Be Starving.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 11. Turkey
has refused to grant the request of the
United States that a neutral committee
be permitted to undertake relief work in
Syria, where thousands of native Chris
tians are reported starving.
NEAR CERTAINTIES LOST.
Two Horses, Thought Sure to Win, Beat
en at Pittsburg.
Pittsburg, Pa., Aug. 11. Defeat of two
horses that were regarded as certain win
ners, Peter Mount in the three-year-old
trot by Cochato Jay and Lindsay in the
2:17 trot by Sister Strong, featured the
second day of grand circuit racing at
lirunots Island yesterday afternoon. Der
by Custer in the 2:17 pace was the only
favorite to make good, although Director
Todd in the 2:10 trot performed true to
form and won his race.
Peter Mount broke when not far from
the wire in the opening heat and finished
second. In the two subsequent heats, the
son of Peter the Great came in third.
Cochato Jay won the race in straight
heats.
offended at senators whose business drew ,w of nine J'ear and a 8011 of about 14
them from the chamber.' Most of the years.
nipnihpri trnlr bint at. his word and left.
Senator .Tnnoa charred that, t Im hill HASKINS' FUNERAL
with its ?"O,0lK),000 appropriation was a
violation of the economy promise of the Held at Brattleboro, Many People At-
Democratic platform of lluis. He es
timated that more than $7 50 ,000, OflO in
all would be needed to create the ton
nage necessary to care for American
shipping.
RESIGNED UNDER PRESSURE
George Osgood, Victim at Concord, N. H.,
Last Evening.
Concord, X. IL, Aug. 11. George L.
Osgood, 00, of 9 Thompson street, well
known here as a,n expert auditor and
accountant, was struck by a taxicab on
State street last evening, and received
injuries, from which he died about five
minutes after his removal to the Mar
garet Pillsbury hospital.
Mr. Osgood was riding down Thomp
son street on a bicycle, and the accident
occurred as he was turning into State
street. Two automobiles were proceed
ing along State street, and one, a taxi,
owned by Gray s garage and driven by
STRANGE CALL
BY WIRELESS
May Have Come
German Sx .
. Bre
the
.ne
SENDER REFUSED TO
MAKE SELF KNOWN
Asked for Telefunken Sta
tion and Was Told It
Was Closed
New York, Aug. 11. Two strange wire
less calls for the Telefunken station,
X. V., beard at Sandy Hook this morn-
', and the refusal of the sender to
disclose his identity, Jed to the supposi
tion that the call might be from the
Bremen. The sender of the message was
told by the shore station that the Tele
funken station was closed.
REPORTED OFF CAPES
Bremen, It Was Said, Would Come in
Within 24 Hours.
Norfolk, Va., Aug. 11. Reports that
the German submarine merchantman Bre
men, sister ship to the Deutschland, is off
the capes and will pass into Hampton
roads within the next 24 hours, were cur
rent here last night and were believed in
German circles in close touch with thn
Eastern Forwarding Co., agents for tha
submarine line.
TAX BALANCE ABOUT $3,000
Constable Will Have About the Usual
Amount to Collect.
to
tending Service,
Brattleboro, Aug. 11. The body of ex-
Congressman Kittredge Haskms was
buried with Masonic honors yesterday in
Prospect Hill cemetery. The body lay in
state an hour in Masonic temple, after
which Rev. Nelson Kellogg officiated at
the funeral service in St. Michael's Epis-
Durand Practically Forced Out, Declares copal church. The service was largely pavi,i Green, attempted to pass the oth
Senator Townsend. attended. Beausant commandery, Knights,. rr. Osgood came into State street,
i lemn ars. oiumoian anil nraiiieuoro , U4 ii,-. tn-n imin n win a mnii nhiswt
Washington, J. i. ., -'Vig. n. .-.enaior ,KU,es of Masons. Bincham chanter. O.
jownseno, ncpunnenn, oi ine census com- S-i Sedwiek post, G. A. R the Worn
m it tee. made the statement in the Senate Lng Kelief corps and the Windham Coun-
yesteruay supporting xne tieciaranons oi tv p,ar association and Norwich univer-
Charles E. Hughes that E. Dana Durand, 9iv sen delegations
former director of the census, Wftfl re-1 Tho frtiinri lotltrfl of taBOns war rrnre-
moved from office to make a vacancy for LPnte(1 DV nPnrv h. Ross of Burlington,
political reasons and taking issue with .ndmaster: Charlies Whitcomh of
Sec. RedfieM's rejoinder that Mr. Durand proctorsville, grand treasurer; H. L. Bal-
iriucti voioniniiiv. on nt t 'heater, nast Grandmaster, anil
'The secretary of commerce says Mr. Lctinsr nrelate for the commandery.
Dnrand resigned." said Senator Town- The honorary bearers were " .Tudne
send. "That is not correct. The fact is ,Tames M. Tyler. Judge E. L. WTaterman,
that Sec. Redfield called on Durand in ju(ie Charles H. Robb of the supreme
April and stated that he desired his po- court 0f th0 District of Clumhia. Judge
sition. Durand replied that much minor-1 a v sd.wnek. Attv. O. E. Butt erfiehl
tant work waa in progress and that be Lf Wilmington and Attv. H. D. Ryder of
i . . . j a- irv ,'i n-i. - "
ougnt io ne aiiowcu in unisii ii.. i "e Bellows Falls
next day Mr. Harris ( illiam J. Harris)
nomination was sent to the Senate and
the next day it was announced that Mr.
Durand had resigned."
Senator Townsend said be explained
the facts to the census committee and
delayed the confirmation of Harris.
THE MACCABEE PICNIC
BULL MOOSE ADJUNCT.
To the Democratic National Committee,
Says McCormick.
New York, Aug. 11. Vance McCor
mick, chairman of the Democratic nu
tional committee announced last night
the personnel of the Democratic cam
paign committee and the associate cam
state of collapse following it. and 1 .,f x. i.i. i j
son's re-election. The Democratic cam
paign committee has a membership of
20 and the associate campaign commit
tee of Progressives is composed of seven.
SPEAKING TOUR PLANNED.
President Wilson Will Travel Across the
Continent.
Washington. D. C. Aug. 1 1. President
Wilson has practically decided to make a
peaking trip across the continent. No
details of the tour have been arranged.
but it was understood to-day that his
Itinerary would be marked out within a
few weeks.
OPPOSE LIQUOR FOR WOMEN.
18 WERE INJURED.
When Train Plunged Into Crowd Prepar
ing to Enter Another Train.
Binghaniton, N. Y.. Aug. 18. Eighteen
persons were injured, eight seriously,
when a northbound coal train of the
Delaware A. Hudson railroad ploughed
through a crowd which had been attend
ing the roiinty fair just as they were
boarding a southbound passenger train
in front of the Afton station at eight
Catholic Total Abstinence Union Adopts
Resolution.
Washington, D. C-, Aug. 11. The Cath- o'clock last night. The coal train struck
die Total Abtinence union went on rec- a baggage truck, breaking it into sp'in-
ord to-day in opposition to the growing ters w hich caused many injuries. Men
ne of intoxicants by women and girls, land women huddled up against the pas-
Have Advanced North of Bazentin Ie Pe
tit, Says British Bureau.
London, Aug. 11. North of Bazentin
1 Petit, northwest of Poiieres on the iRectdut ions to that effect were adoi.ted. ' sender coachea to rar.e the encine of
Large Crowd Gathered at Dewey Park
Yesterday.
A large crowd of ladies, with their
'I believe it Is well for the country to families, gathered at Dewey park Thurs
know the facts." continued Senator day to enjoy the annual Maccabee picnic.
Tnn-noJ "xr DnranH nroetnllw During the afternoon all joined m the
removed. He resigned under pressure al sports, the following being the prize
after he had stated he ought to remain "ln,ll
until the census reports were completed.'
MAY BE SAVED FROM DEATH.
By Confession of Another Man That He
Committed the Murder.
Buffalo, N. Y.. Aug. 11. Sheriff Nich
ols of Cattaraugus last night at Little
Valley announced that a ri -"in r. Earl
King, had confessed that ! guilty
of the murder of Charles 1' . . nl his
housekeeper, Mary Woh'it,. iu Wet
Sheloy on March --. 1!U.. for these
murders Charles Stellow is under sen
tence of death, having recently been re
prieved on the day of execution through
the efforts of various New York advo
cates of the abolition of the death penal
ty.
King, who is aO years old, was arrest
ed on Tuesday night at Pavilion bv
private detective agency and last night
was taken to Little Valley, where he was
questioned until late in the evening by
the private detective and a woman law
yer from New York, interested in saving
the life of the condemned man Steilow.
1st,
1st
1st,
Small girls' race Selina Veal 1st, Cath
erine Dineen 2d.
Larger girls' race Ethel Lund
Mary Russ 2d.
Small boys' race Douglas Earl
Thomas Ross 2d.
Older boys' race George Aitken
Alex Aitken 2d.
Young ladies' race Gladys Masaie 1st,
Mjirv Scott 2d.
Married ladies' race Mrs. Violet Seott
1st. Mrs. Ella La Bell 2d, Mrs. Jennie Ait
ken 3d."
Fat ladies' race Mrs. Jessie Lund 1st,
Mrs. Florence Veale, 2d, Mis. Mae Allen
3d.
Peanut race Mrs. Nancy Averv Ht.
Mrs. Jennie Aitken 2d.
Doughnut race Ella Scott 1st, Mrs.
Mae Allen 2d.
READY FOR AUTO RACE
RETIRES FROM SERVICE
e-omme front, the British have made fur- and officers were elected, headed .v Rev. the coal train and some dived under the
thr prosrre-s, it mas cff.ciaHy announced j John I Wan of Pittsburg, at the rinsing (day enaohea of the passenger train. None
to-dny. nt;on. as kil'el.
Rear Admiral Thomas Benton Howard
Beyond Age Limit.
Washington. D. C Aug. 11. Rear Ad
miral Thomas Ronton Howard h i tie. n
placed on the retired li-t on account of
Many American Drivers Arrive at Col
orado Springs.
Colorado Springs, Aug. 11. Many
American automobile drivers and one Eu
ropean driver are here to compete to-day
on what they deefare Is the sportiest
mountain race eourse on the continent
the 12'i-mile boulevard to the summit of
snowcapped Pike's peak.
He became confused, fell from his bicycle
and was struck by the taxi. He was
picked up by Officer Irving B. Robinson
and Chauffeur Green and was rushed to
the Margaret Pillsbury hospital. His in
juries appeared to be chiefly about the
head.
County Solicitor Robert L. Murchie
and Medical Referee ( haney Adams were
called, and a preliminary Inquiry was
held. Five witnesses were examined,
including the driver of the taxi, David
Green, Nelson Forest, a passenger in the
taxi. Sergeant C T. Wallace, Norris
Dunklee and George Fredette. Green
was allowed to go with the understand
ing that he should appear when called
upon. The examination was continued
to-day.
Mr. Osgood was prominent in local j
business circles, and was for ten years
accountant for the Concord Electrical
company. Lately he has worked as an
expert auditor and accountant. He was
planning to open an insurance office
next week, having secured the agency
for a prominent company. He was well-
known in the fire department, having
been at one time foreman of the Alert
Hose company. ' He was active in the
Veterans' Fireman's association and was
an ex-secretary of the New Hampshire
Firemen's association.
He is survived bv his wife and two
daughters, Margaret and Georgia, of
this city.
Tax receipts at city hall for two davs,
Wednesday and Thursday, bid fair to
lipse any previous record for a similar
period, although the returns are not all
tabulated and it is impossible, just now,
make any comparisons with other
ears. hen the time expired last night
for paying taxes without giving tho con
stable an extra bonus for his services.
more than $148,000 of the $151,277.58 to.
be collected had been deposited in the
city treasury. The delinquencies are no
more numerous than last year and on
the whole the city authorities have rea
son to survey the lf16 collections with
satisfaction. Scarcely more than $3,000
remains to be turned over to the con
stable for collection and much of this is
made up of poll taxes.
From the hour the doors of the treas
urer's office opened Wednesday morning
until last night, barring a brief respite
for sleep, there was almost a steady
stream of people in the corridor at city
hall. In the two days ending last night
the sum of $flOf449.9,:) was received. Much
of this amount represents the money paid
in by those who are assessed for poll
taxes only. Yesterday, with a record of
$34,000, was the busiest day of all. A
total of 8P3 lists were handled from S
o'clock in the morning until the office
closed at night. Stragglers stampeded
the office after the supper hour and tha
weary found no rest until after 10 o'clock.
Most of the heavy property taxpayers
had settled their accounts around Aug. 1,
or even earlier, although there is always
a percentage of taxpayers of this class
who use their money for other purpose
as long as possible. The bulk of the bus
iness, however, was transacted with poll
taxpayers.
BANK EXAMINER
KELLEIIER DEAD
Well Known Montpeiier Man DJed of Ty
phoid Fever After Three Weeks' Ill
nessWas Taken m at St.
Bernard Club.
WAS NEAR DEATH.
PLAI5FIELD
To-morrow nieht the Nellie Gill Play
ers will present, "I nder Cover." in riain
In Same Automobile Which Killed His
Father.
Lebanon. N. H., Aug. 11 Earle Kim
ball, president of the Lowell Commercial
collece. who ha been in town visiting
his cousin, had a narrow escape from be
ing killed Wednesday near hochester.
Vt., when his touring car slewed into
the ditch and turned turtle.
Mr. Kimball was pinned beneath the
car. but was able to crawl out. A pair
of glasses he was wearing were broken
and his face was somewhat scratched bv
the glass, otherwise he waa not injured.
The car. which was badly damaged,
was the same one in which his father
1-e Doit E. Kimball, was killed when it
tunred over an eight-foot embankment
near Windsor, Vt., several months ago.
James H.Kelleher of Montpeiier. national
bank examiner for Vermont, died in Mont
peiier at 10:13 last night of typhoid
fever. He was taken ill while at the St.
Bernard club, Canada, and was brought
back to Montpeiier three weeks ago. He
had been doing well since that time until
yesterday afternoon, when a turn for the
worse set in and he failed rapidly.
James Henry Kellcher was born in Con
cord, N. H., Oct. 2f, 1870, and came with
his parents to Montpeiier when hi was
only a few years old. He was educated
in St. Michael's parochial school and the
Montpeiier high school. He was for many
years with the First National bank of
Montpeiier, remaining there till ho was
appointed bank examiner a few year
ago. For three terms he was a school
eommissioner. lie was a member of tho
Knights of Columbus and the Elks.i
Mr. Kellcher was frequently called on
special cases to Massachusetts, Newr
Hampshire and Pennsylvania. He was
an etneient examiner, and liked for his
admirable qualities.
Besides his wife, who was Sarah Pwyer
(of Burlington, he leaves a young son; his
mother; two brothers. Timothy and Fran
cis, both of Montpeiier: three sisters,
Mrs. John W. Durkee of Fair Haven, Mrs.
Frank Brown and Mrs. Kennedy, both of
Montpeiier.
CHILD RAN BEFORE AUTO.
killed by an automobile driven by Wil
liam Hoel of Torrington, Conn., yester
day afternoon. 1 he hoy ran m front of
the machine which was making alow
pr gress towards Boston, being on a re
turn trip from a two weeks' tour in the
White mountain'.
John H. Tucker was with Mr. Hoel.
The parents were aw.ir trora home, hav
ing left the child in the care of an older
brother. Medical Examiner Ir. Trainor
Received Fatal Injuries at Kennebnnk, 'of Bid l.-ford. and County Attorney Hir-
:man M ulard of Sanford, were called. Mr
' jlbiel p!r-d in the rare of C nUb!
Kennebunk, Me.. Aug. 11 A f"iir-vi-r- ! 1-eMer LitHefeH. w hi will brin him
field. Thi plav electrified Boston lart'old son of C H. Strickland, l.vmg near before lr:il Justice Harold Bourne at
winter for months. adv. the line of Wells and Kennebunk, waa Kennebunk.
