RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, Friday august, h me.
h UMBER 98
NEW MEXICO
STATE
THE CHANGE
NOT GREAT IN
JITUATION
EUROPEAN WAR FIELD HAS
SAME ASPECT AS HELD
FOR SOME WEEKS. LATEST
. MEXICAN NOTE
HUGHES STARTS ON
CONTINENTAL TRIP
the latest note from General Car
ranza and appoint American com
missioners to sit with the Mexican
members in the commission to ad
iust the difference between the two
countries until all doubt as to the ex
act meeting of Carranza's communi
cation delivered to the stae depart
ment has been cleared up.
Carranza stared that he consider
ed it "of the greatest importance
that a prompt decision be reached
on the points which have caused the
existing differences between the
United States and Mexico."
Officials at the state department
declared if the Spanish word over
which distrust has arisen really
means only "preferably" there is
no harm in it, and, Carranza has in
PROGRESSIVES DECIDE ON, fact accepted the recommendation
NO TICKET ROBINS DE- ' t'1's government to increase the
.,-' powers of the commission. If the
SIT TOT CI TUV JV rff! ATI CI
- wofd shouM Mn ,.preferentiay
UUOUSB UU1 ,(,, it mictht he construed to
THE DOPE IN
POLITICS IN
THIS STATE
frayed cognomens Catron, Bursum, time, with Lieut. Gov. E. C. de Baca
Romero, Hubbell Bursum, Hubbard, and Secretary of State Antonio Luce
Catron, Romero Hubbard, Catron, I ro, in the tvent the party deems it
GOV. MCDONALD DOES NOT
WANT TO TAKE RISK OF
NOMINATION. BURSUM THE
BEST BET OF ALL
Romero, Bursum until one is promp
ted to ask oneself if by any chance
there might be someone else living in
New Mexico capable of filling office
with efficiency and dignity.
wise to nominate a apanish-Ameri-can.
It is eported from Rio Arriba and
San Miguel counties that the nomi
nation of Poe would be well received
We are making no assault upon by the democrats in those and other
HERNANDEZ HAS
ARRIVED FROM
WASHINGTON
MAN BEHIND
IS TRUE TEST
OF THE VALUE
these men they are good enough: native counties. He looked upon as
POE IS TALKED
FOR GOVERNORSHIP
OVERTURES.
FOR HUGHES
French troops have completely re
captured the vilage of Fleeury, north
east of Verdun, as well as the en
tire German system of trenches
from Thiaumont to Fleury, extend
ing as far as Hill 320, according to
the official statement issued by the
Paris war office.
All reports from the Verdun re
gion indicate that the French offen
sive is growing rapidly in vigor and
cope .
Military experts see great signifi
cance in this new move of the French
and regard it as a part of some great
scheme of strategy that will show
mean that. Carranza reserved the
right to accept or to reject at a
later time the American proposal
of enlarging the commission's
powers. It was said at the Mexi
can embassy that no doubt need be
entertained by this government as
to Mexico's earnest desire to reach
a satisfactory adjustment of all dif
ferences with the United States,
and that no obstacle diplomatic or
material, would be put in the way
of a swift and certain settlement
agreeable to both governments.
The Political Field
THE RATON RANGE TELLS
OF FLOWERS PURPOSE OF
THE SANTA FE NEW MEX
ICAN. DEMOCRATS EXPECT
DEFEAT IN STATE
men, perhaps, at least a part of them
are but the sweetest bouquet grows
stale when left standing long enough
upon the parlor table. We believe,
indeed, that New Mexico is a flourish
ing garden of pilitical beauty. Why
not put a cluster or two of other va
rieties under the noses of the Repub
licans of the State and see if their
perfume is not pleasing?
The Range has already plucked f jr
consideration a sprig of the Sargent
Peach, that hardy grower and pro-
a man whose candidacy would en
thuse eastern New Mexico.
Mr. Poe's friends are outspoken in
their belief that the Roswell banker j
would prefer to remain in charge of
his business interests, but at the same
H -I fS NOT A CANDIDATE FOR HUGHE'S SPEECH RESTS IN
ANY POSITION BUT THATi ITS FORCE ON THE MAN
OF CONGRESSMAN. WANTS:
HARMONY. HUGHES' ELEC
TION SURE I
BACK OF IT. DEMOCRATS
NEED MOOSE SUPPORT
time thev express the belief that he! Congressman Benigno Hernandez
would consent to make the race.-!" in the citv on Sunday, leaving
THE DEMOCRATIC
Carlsbad Argus.
Sure Defeat
"Any ticket that may be nominat-
tur 'us home in Kio -r;ba county
on Monday morning. The popular,
congressman was accepting the greet-!
ings of his army of friends in this SAYS
CHAIRMAN SO FUNNY
No one seems to desire the Dem
ocratic nomination for Governor, Mr.
Poe of Roswell may be drafted and
while Mr. Poe is a worthy capable
man we are of the opinion that he
will afterwards thank himself if he
declines the nomination. Arlisia
News.
eifv and ura . rrpivi.im Ihpir eotlffra.
ed by the Democrats in New Mexico- 1
ruhfinn Avar thn rnnrA rim ha man
lific bloomer, whose blossoms also will go down'in defeat this year. The " .
one bare exception is in the event ,effisature He ha,l
that Secundino Romero is nominated, . . ,. . , j
, 9civ.ff a limitation for himself and I
for governor." . ... , A ,1
the critics of two years ago who:
By heavy odds the most sweeping were f(j seyere . the remarkj both ashinton. Aug. 9. The republican
prophecy of defeat that I have heard . , d . ken ree Association, through it.
on cms swintr uiruuui uiv siaic vi -
Won't Risk It.
Gov. McDonald is a pretty good
sort of a Scotchman, but he is soon
according to the best information j
at hand; and even though the Gov.
are succeeded by wholesome fruits.
It has likewise pointed finger to that
sturdy American rote of Spanish
stock, Hernandez, which has been
vigorously blooming in the halls of
congress and has been much admired
there. The Range is of retiring dis
position, and does not wish to thrust
every pretty posy In the garden un
der the voters' noses, but hopes sin
cerely that other exhibitors may arise
and stick a blossom or two in the po
litical vase.
To be sure, the state committee
man has named its favorite flower,
called Little Kalpn, v hich many
WILSON WILL NOT
PLAY POLITICS. CHRISTIAN
SCIENCE MONITOR, NON
PARTISAN, SAYS REPUBLI
CANS WILL WIN
New Mexico. The strangest part of
with language as they were on that President, Hon. Jonathan Bourne, Jr.,
ters :
senatorial bees in his bonnet, his
t 'people" would not permit either one
these insect's to take their flight he-
fore the voting public of the state.
! Sorry. Well ? Clayton Citizen.
Very Probable
H. O. Bursum, in all probability
will be the nominee of the rcpubli-
. can party tor governor, it nomin
ated, he is certain to be elected.
Candidate Charles E. Hughes is on
developments on the Russian front his trip across the continent and has
and possibly in the Balkans. jmade very telling speeches as far as
Verdun was an absolute ;failure he has gone. He has been in De
fer the Germans because it was'troit and Chicago where he was re
their whole operation. A year ago ceived with the greatest enthusiasm
the western offensive of the Allies and won the confidence of all who
was a failure, relative only, because ' heard him with his frank expression J
while it failed to pierce the German with nothing veiled. This trip ofj
lines, it took pressure off the Rus- the Republican candidate promises
sians at a critical moment by com-' much in the way of gaining friends
pelling the Germans to direct atten- and aiding in tlie KequMican vie
tion and reserves toward the west, 1 tory which seems now to be assured
but it was successful only as a de-!Mr. Hughes wil go to the Pacific
,.(im Ira.f anrf rr 1wH,a .nth,n ,! Bursum as we regard him as being
Tf the Russians continue to ad- route speaking on the way, going
.......... ,1.. Aii.ari nffor,.;.,. : . L., ,i ;- K'tesia
value iwc miibu wusitaus. i, a suv-'ann v.'iiii... ill. i.i auiii,M(i 1 u "J
cess even if the German lines in Mrs. Hughes and a veritable army!
the west hold out. It is essential to of correspondents. Raymond L.j P Talked Of
view the whole field as one. It is Robins, who was the chairman ofj John W. Poe, of Roswell, president
not that an isolated attack upon the Progressive national convention of the Citizens National Bank of that
the Central powers has failed in the! has refused the proffered place on 'place, and president of the state tax
west, temporarily at least, while, the Democratic national committee 'commission, is looming larger on the
another in the east has succeeded urged upon him by the friends of Democratic horizon as a possible can
temporarily. What is the fact is President Wilson and will give his didate for the gubernatorial nomina
that the Allies are storming the support to Hughes t'on- The recent emphatic statement
Central power's lines on the east Robins took the failure of the hy Robert E. Putney, ot Albuquerque,
and the pressure on the west has Republican national convention to j which he reiterated that he would
and the west at the same moment nominate Roosevelt sorely. National absolutely refuse tt consider the no-
prevented the Germans from send- Democratic Chairman McCormick mination, many bclitv: removes him
sought to take advantage of this, from the list of possible candidates,
bv offering him a Wilson camnaiim!and leaves Mr. Foe, Senator Isaac
occasion. He has been careful in tnHn irim nut- ihr following .tat.
the prophecy is that it was not made recognition of the de,;res r,f his; ment at iM Washington Headquar
oy a Kepuoiican, out a uulu. constituent5 anJ prompt in the res
worker, one of the best informed and .. j -
' iP"nse 10 an cans ana nas won r ,.The chie( ya,ue of he Hughe,
most effective workers in the state. . . . h th t ; t Us..a.iiv' , ,
. .. 'Pace ,n ,ne nou,e ,nat 1:1 not usua"y I speech of acceptance lies not so much
He is now supporting the Democratic .. ... . mmw
. ... . , . ... accorded " term member. , ,h information jt contains as in
party, and will continue to do so until ,, A
. . . . . , . I Mr. Hernandez has been cal';d on tle picture and impression it gives
the votes are counted, but declares he'. xA ... . 1 '
, ., .... . 'in the states of the east to aid in '.he the American people of the man be-
cannot foresee any possibility of sue- ,
i reelection of membrrs of the house of ,jIHi (he speech. In the coming elec
cess for the party. i ... . .
tn h. retired hv the "unwashed ones"! . r- j- j . j v A . . . , ., representatives, and tne response ne as never before, we shall vote for
to De retired oy me unwasneu ones, at first were disposed to admire, but This stands out in striking contrast . , , .
, . , . . , . , . ,. . . , . has mane to tne requests nas given mcn-tiot words. In the three years
which seems somehow to be losing to the belief expressed by state scna- .........
, , , , r, ,t i . a i i him a popularity ?nd a recognition of jst past we ,ave learned the futi-
its first fresh fragrance. Raton tr r isaac Barth, who is expected hy ... . , , '
has both the gubernatorial and the p I , k. .i. M,t f .1,..! wmcn n may w-" oe protm- l,tv "l vo,"' for ""P Promises,
l.UII.,1, lllllll) IU U. 3IU..UU.V1 . .
. , ; . c,t-j,' His coming awakened a great deal We have
I Democratic party. He s.'in Mturnay
u i i .i, .',, ..,!, I nf interest from the fart tint ho has uselessne
tl ir-.. i. t: (riin or that he thoiip. it tins would
t. . .-l If.. ..I r,lte -.till. 1... 1 ,.'.1-1 Lr 1 It .1 I'TTI llllff ,M I a
Democrats ,HLn rept-iiie'uy nu-iiin.nn:n rts .1 ...nj i.j ,.vr. u.... tU...u....
silile candidate of his party f.ir roth snnality. I he American voter today
had a demonstration of the
of catchy phrases hacked
for the
The New Mexican, tho Progressive 11 'l Rooa edr
I'i'".t,(ls of Uarth havj sin that ne
newspaper organ published at the ,
sla'c capital, is nndnubtedly opposed
to (lie nomination or election of Hon.
!rli''cs this will b a good year for
the Democrats, and that it is for this
iT'iank A. Hubbell to the United,
The Son,e years ago a few Reoi.blica.i
News has always been loyal to Mr,""0"" 50 comm. tea n.e anairs or
M Icir'tory of New Mono is m
one of the best men of the state. Ar-
News.
reason that he is willini? to accept
State senate, or anything else, and u,e """." nas ueen p.-.uvu
Ihere is a rison. l0,,t t,lat hc is t0 PracticaI a n'an tn
desire to be nominated it-, a vear
" lien the liklihood of election is very
slight. The pessimistic leader quoted
.ihove continued his dissert'on as
fallows :
1 'The feeling of tfer hopelessness
'gvratest and mole widely prevalent
in the Pecos valley which is the
I r'i'g considerable dh f 'ac? tip 11 tre
party, but fortunately for the Repub
lican party, at the first state election
they decided to betray the men who
had made them politically possible
east which
the eastern
ing the troops to the
are required to hold
tine.
The Germans have suffered further
losses at the hands of the French be
tween Helmwood and the river Som
me, losingi there a line of their trench
cs and 120 prisoners and ten machine
guns, and also in the Verdun sector,
where the French made progress
south of hte Thiaumont work and
captured five machine guns and took
tome houses in the western part of
the village of Fleury.After a heavy
bombardment of the British posi
tions, the Germans launched violent
Infantry 'attacks north and north
east of Pozieres, and at two places
1
'!-reeded in entering British trench
es. Their success was not long liv
ed, for the British soon drove them
out, inflicting heavy casualties on
them.
committee place,
under advisement.
ter him
York.
and organized the Progressive party,
for the one and only purpose of get
ting themselves into office, and as
they talked hard, did induce a large
number of Republicans to vote with
them, and aid that much in the elec
tion of Democrats.
The political politics of these men
were soon unpopular with the people
of the state and although the New
Mexican was purchased and support
ed the Progressives lost ground
until now they have no votes, mainly
the senatorship and the nomination is reading between the lines to find
for governor. There have ben divers the quality of the man, and when lie
sii'.rrrrstion of the entrance of a read t he Hughes speech he was im
dusky steed in the arena of state po- pressed with the sincerity, the dig
I'ties and the attention of those who nity and the stability of the speaker,
thought of this entry naturally was "jt wa3 a straightforward state-
direced to Ben"r"c Hernandez, m(,nt 0f facts and discussion of is
wbose .- lendid run of :wo vears ago SileSi without any of that impulse
an1 wii.i-f public i .i- irl since told extravagance of utterance which has
I all ioi plainly of ending ::i ,0 often led Mr. Wilson into humi-
his ow state and his aV "ty to meet Hating retractions and reversals,
.l.e r-o, mneut" of the : yitfo'i to There was no 'play to the galleries.'
which hc had been chosen. Tt was the thought, the feeling and
Mr. Hernandez met these sugs- the language of the statesman, rather
isirong hold of Democracy in New
jXirxico. I have r.'cen tly visited that ti.m? in the manner which might be than of the mere politician. It was
I district and talked vith a large mini-; expected. He declined to be con- gratifying and encouraging, there
ber of the Democratic leaders. Not sidcivd as a candidate (or either po- fore, to those millions of Americans
si'ion. 'icing satisfied with ti'c reno- who have become tired of speeches
mitiat'on to congress, and even said made merely to catch votes and who
ports throughout the state have been that if it seemed best fo' the in- earnestly desire as the head of this
that the Pecos valley would demand tcrestn o. the party that some other nation a man who will represent
substantial recognition of the con
vention. "There was a time when this was
a man in the valley, of state office
caliber, is a candidate for office. Re
man be nominated in bis place he sound economic policies at home and
would yield gracefully and support who will maintain the rights and
t'ie nominee.
There is not a Re-1 prestige of the United States and its
true, but that time is passed. Hill, pub!ian in the state who would lis- citizens in every land and on every
former president of the New Mexico ten to this suggestion for one mo- sea."
Sobin, took ItlB-rth. of Albuquerque, and Dr. J. J. " " "J". "V Educational association, and fre- W as Ben Hernandez ha, won the
Perkins got af-jShuler, of Katon, the men most pro- The New M
and invited him to New.minently mentioned at the present
time, with Lieut. Gov. E. C. de Baca
exican is not
The interview held between can- " the Progressive noliticians have been
1 pprn in rnp pvpnr rnp narrv neemru
most satisfactory and the Propres-.'t wise to nominate a -panisn-.m-
sive chairman wil be one of the most,erican
queiitiy mentioned as a candidate for hearts cf the people of New Mexico
His declanation to be considered
''"ihas rlnnir his nlnne anrt cni'frlif the'for alld Other OOsition show? his lov-
monthly aid of a millonaire sucker! . . .,.. J ,,;, hi. ,,, h Hm.-lf ,W1,r
IIUIHIllitll'III UI bUUIIi; JUtl lllllll- ""V 1".' " -
a newspaper, and withoujt
didate Hughes and Mr. Robins was-",., .- r.rm .c k . t b on ,
enthusiastic and valued supporters
of the Republican national ticket.
No Procreaiive Ticket
At a meeting of leaders attending
month with the support the people
cf the state can be induced to con
tribute But the one mission of the
It is reported from Rio Arriba and
6 . New Mexican is to get the thre: or
tion of Poe would be well received bv , ., . , .
u, . Jcur men responsible for its existence
the Democrats in those and otner
native counties. He it looked upon
as a man whose candidacy would en-
d. nt of schools. Atkinson, thought ed that he would do nothing to inject
to have a good chance for state trca-jany troubles within the party ranks
surer,. It had been said that jddge and that there must be harmony
Granville A. Richardson would be a. and good feeling on all sides. It was
candidate for governor or supreme but further
the Progressive party conterence it.inuirrasirrn mw '" urotten riH nf
. . I r . r . I . , !...
was decided late last week not to roes incnus arc imii'fi
into office, and to get them in, all
others of sufficient prominence to be
in the way. must be defamed and
evidence of the level
headedness and patriotic spirit of
ibis popular New Mexico official.
Touching the national situation Nf r.
Hernandez declared that there was
And that is the reason for the vi-
In Mexico.
nominate a candidate for president in their belief that the Roswell bank-1 cims attackj of thc Ncw Mexican on
but to appoint an executive committer would prefer to remain in charpe M(. Hubbell. It is a known fact
tee of IS to perpetuate the party and of his business interests, but at the . Hi)bell has no narticular
adopt resolutions criticizing the Na-;same time they express the heliefiUse fcf certain mpn who
tional commitee for indorsing Hugh
es in Chicago.
A majority of those presnet fav
ored putting a third ticket in the
field but several influential leaders
. t . . . .L
tnat ne would consent to niaKe me pil,.,.. of ,he pllbIic,t;e!li and ,t
;race.-Clovis Journal. be expected that ,vcrvthil,K po..
slhie will be done to det'. a
doubted the wisdom of the action da,e " tMn on a mono,ony;tri.ces Citizen.
It has been officially announced
at thp Mexican foreicn office that
Luis Cabrera, Ygnacio Bonillas and' Every representative agreed, how-; wearying to the nervousiyj
Alberto Pan! have been selected as'ever, that it would be desirable to' disposcd-a dreary reiteration of thej
. . ... four nv-r.w- .knnvn. rtnliticailv .
the Bcr-
;iI!o countv man. And then. Hub-
Kcpunucan pontica. coversanun aVbp .f fo(. Fc fir,t..La,
That Flower Fragrance
the commissioners to netiite with 'take some action which would per
the United States commi 'on.-'-s j.ctuate political organization. . .
regarding hte questions at i--"c. Chairman Hate was applauded when he said:
between Mexico and the United ;wdien he said: "We have come here In the past it w charged that commission, is loom ug larger on the ers
C.i.. Tl.-. fAmmieeinti wil tA with Iwa irfpa.. W wish tn lllinw m.a r, nitrrt1l ftw twn mun Ltmnrtgti tinrivrtn 3. 1 f.rtcciMe ran-, VOlltH on a hipve'p. whilp rlrivinf
his automobile at the corner ori"r"" p"1""""
Looming Large
John W. Toe, of Roswell. president
cf the Citizens National Bank of that
place, and president of the state tax
court Justice, but he will not be a can
didate for any office.
"The 'Spanish-Americans' will notni
nate and elect a governor or a sena
tor. Sixty-five per cent of the totalnot the least doubt among the p'eo-
jvote of the state is Spanish-Ameri-, pie of the cast that Hitches wou'd
'can. If I had the time, and you had.be the next president. The opposi
the time, we could go through the . tion to the policy of Wilson has taken
itecord of the vote in the la--: few deep root and all the eastern stafs
election-, and prove this statement, are aroused to the situation. The e
I think that the Republican ticket seems to be no doubt in the min is
will be headed as fo'lows: Helm O. of those who are best qualified to
Bursitm for governor; Frank A. Hub- iudce that New York will be in 'he
be'! for senator; Ben C. Hernandez1 republican rolumn and tha the fi ht
for compress ; Clarence I Roberts for inr ground in Indiana ar l T;'i'i i
the supreme court; O. A. Larvazolo will he won by Hucrhes. Oh:i past
attorney general, if he is nominated the doubtful st.Te and i ronpfd on
for any office. Guthrie Smith In El a. sure, roncressman Hernani'er
Paso Herald. jsavs that the nomination of Hi' hps
I found a niot ready response w'th
Ford Not Deadly Weapon j,he voter, of ,he "frmntry ar,i ' e
Justice of the Peace C. C. Roo:-
on Monday collirlpd with a
Appeals To Moot
WiUon's appeal for Bull Moose sup
port is merely a confession of the
truth which everyone knowsnamely,
that there are not Democrats enough
in this country to carry a national
election. In every campaign wc be
t'lne familiar with the Democratic
can i'ilaie who sIkiM the support of
his Republican acquaintances. Some
times it i- on the ground of friend
ship Sometimes it is on the ground
of some fpecial piece of legislation
or admini-tration in which the can
didate ivr.j a particular interest,
r.ut whatever the evctise. the result
aimed at is the samethe detach
l lent of enough vote, from the Re
publican -i I o to score a victory for
a Democrat. Generally sneaking the
uim: on the ticket p-" noT enamored
of a n1'''!;1'!' v!;o thus p'ays his
D."
headed by Senator Cabrera and Juan j that we do not approve cf the action one as leader and the other was didate for the gubernatorial nomina-
of the reactionary wing of the na-redited with buying ns. Thank God tion. The recent emphatic statement
feels that the nevt house rf rep
resentatives will be Republican vlth
th" senate
1 1 vv n
if th
S'ate
Senate -,v:i
to WiNon
support
tructive
c: nva.
that h'
'tish1 and
icratie cn.nd
fnr Congress
we doubt
lates for
and the
take wi'h reat kindness
n.' spi c'-il pica for Moos,
for l.imsehV Tint it is ins
to note thus early in to
the President's conviction
own party is n t stronj
cnoush to re-elect him
B. Rogo will act as secretary.
Luis Cabrera is Carranza's min- tional committee in Chicago, June nobody owns the Progressive party
iter of finance and leader of the 1 26, in indorsing Hughes for presi-, today.
Silver and Pine, but. neither of j will also be controlled by the mem
administration party. Ygnacio Bo
nillas is tinder-secretary of commu
nications. He left Mexico Gty July
31. bound for New York. Alberto
dent and to take some action to
perpetuate the Progressive party."
John M. Parker, of Louisiana,
Mr. Parker reviewed the history
of the party, praised the platform
adopted a tthe national convention
Progressive nominee for vice-presi- last June and urged that steps he
J. Pani is president of the National, dent, was given an ovation when he 'taken to perpetuate the party. He
railway of Mexico.
stepped to the platform to address severely criticized the national com-
The United States will not accept the conference. He was cheered mittee for Indorsing Hughes.
the nnripci rn thpnpcirlent was in.
by Robert E. Putney, of Albuquerque' -ure(1 JU(Jee Rogers was serious-
in which he reiterated that he would iy considerinp; filing a complaint
absolutely rfuse to consider the nom
ination, many believe removes him
from the list of possible candidates,
and leaves Mr. Poe. Rr.ator Isaac
Barth, of Albuquerque, and Dr. J. J.
Sh tiler, of Raton, the men most pro
m'rrntiy mentioned at the present
against himse'f , on a charge of as
sault with a deadly weapon, but
he could not find, 'n any of his
legal authorities, where a Ford
car is liable to hurt anyone, so he
did not take any further sterra in
the matter. Deming Headlight.
hers of that partv.
Dry Mnriarty.
Moriarty went dry la't Mon-
,day. Eighty-nine votes were
Oeorw Pprin?pr, of the FacV (cast at the election-nineteen more
was callpd to Riton list w'vlc bvj than anyone predite when tha
a te'pgran announcing tesndden ! polls opened. Fortv-nine vote
dath of his brother John who were cat For Prohibition, thirty
was one of the rtioneers of this eight Arainst Pro'iihition and
section having come to Raton in. to ballots were marked that they
1882. I could not be counted.
