" ' Vol. 27 i " SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 30, 1916 No. 16
How Will The Country Vote
THE clamors of the campaign are on, but voters
should not become confused by the noise. Mr.
Wilson rests his campaign upon what he and his
party have accomplished during their control.
Europe, for war munitions and war material
generally, has poured billions of dollars in gold
into this country.
, This gives a raging fever to the country's busi
ness, and a seeming wonderful prosperity, but this
i'- should deceive no one. The Democratic party
'' points to this and claims the credit of it. But
that should deceive no one.
' ' The question is, how would things have been
had affairs remained normal?
'i The president and his party declare that they
have so revised the tariff as to give to the coun
try the first real industrial freedom that it has
enjoyed for sixty years. In passing it is good to
' consider the fact that during those sixty years
the country advanced four hundred per cent in
' wealth, that its settled area more than doubled
' from being as poor and creditless as Spain and
' Turkey to the very fore-front of jiations, majestic
in its position and wealth and glorious in power.
Lot us consider this "Industrial Freedom" for
a moment. Mr. Wilson speaks of it as something
new. When he does he ignores history. It is
but a return to the conditions which his party
established in 1847. In 1849 the gold from Call
"fornist placers began to pour into the lap of the
nation. That and the trade awakened to supply
i California, held the country up until 1857, when
there was a sudden collapse and panic and the
skilled artisans of the nation were forced for the
first time to eat the free soup of charity. An
investigation followed and it was found that all
the gold had been shipped abroad save $57,000,000
and all the eastern coast warehouses were stuffed
with foreign goods.
No effort was made to change legislation until
the Demorcacy went out of power and the great
1. Civil war broke upon the country.
The treasury was empty, the credit of the
country gone; a mighty war had to be met.
I In six months the Republicans had reduced
the chaos to form, met the interest on the bonds
'that the Democrats had issued and the Itopub
1 lie was running on an even keel. Again in 1893
i the Democracy came into full power, and passed
i through the house just such an other tariff raeas-
I ure as the Underwood law. All that saved the
country was that the foremost Democratic states-
! men of the land, Mr. Gorman in the senate, tore
the measure in pieces, revised it to something
reasonable and compelled the house to accept it,
at which President Cleveland was so angry that
he would not sign it, but left it to become a law
; by limitation. As it was the country was so be
reft of money that in the last year of his admin
istration ho was compelled to sell $250,000,000 of
bonds to meet current necessities.
Except for the war there would have been no
beets for making sugar in Utah this year, for
the tariff assasination included the placing of
sugar on the free list, and was to have taken
i effect last spring, only the need of money to
carry on the extravagance of the government
caused the time to be extended. If Mr. Wilson
is re elected that measure will go into effect with
in a year as first intended.
The producers of the country depend upon sell
ing their products for any profit. Much has to be
sent away in the form of raw products.
When the war burst upon Europe two years
and two months ago the whole country saw the
mistake that had been made by having no mer
chant marine. Our ship yards could have made
ready a dozen lines of ships in eight months. Not
one has been built and now trans-Atlantic freights
have doubled.
American ship-builders are equal to the best,
so are American seamen. But it is simply im
possible to run ships, unassisted, against the sub
sidized or bounty-fed ships of Great Britain and
Germany. After waiting two years in the last
days of the last congress a bill was passed for
the government to buy ships and run them to
certain foreign ports, and for any deficit they
make draw the money from the treasury to meet
it. That is so different from paying a subsidy.
That makes the government undertake the
work that should be done by citizens and which
could be so much better done by them. That
helps no ship-building in this country, it is only
intended to bridge things over until England and
Germany can again take up our carrying trade.
Those two questions the tariff and our foreign
trade will be the urgent ones when the war
closes and business begins to assume normal con
ditions. With the tariff left as it is, we shall be strand
ed within ayear.
As to foreign affairs, we are told that peace
has been kept. There has never been one moment
danger of war with any European power, as any
man can see by taking in the conditions there,
for every great power, for two years has been in
a contest not half so much for victory as for life.
As to the president's performances in Mexico,
the American who can review them without the
blush of shame coming to his face, must have
been so much outdoors that the blush does not
show through the tan. The last official great act
of the president, the yielding without debato to
the demands of the over-paid hold-ups; the yield
ing, too, under threats, on its face should satisfy
voters.
Kill That Proposed Amendment
THE people will be coming to conference in a
few days.
A good many of them will be able to recall how
things were in Utah prior to thirty yean ugo.
If questioned they will be forced to admit that
while- the people did the best they .could, they
were very poor.
That there were very few comfortable homes
in the territory and not one decent school house,
save two or three that the church had built
If honest they will be forced to admit that tho
first change came when their young men began to
receive regular wages from tho mines.
That because of the mines practically every
splendid structure in the state has been built;
that because of tho wages paid by tho mines thou
sands of their young men received their first start H
in H
That because of the mines thajr scnooi build- M
ings have been erected which are tho admiration M
of strangers as well as our own people. M
That because of the mines tho farmers first re- M
ceived fair prices for their products. M
That since statehood came almost all the net M
proceeds from the mines have been invested in M
the state. M
That since mining began it has been the para- M
mount industry of the state, the industry on which M
all other industries have leaned for prosperity. M
That were mining to suddenly cease, it would M
in effect be a stroke of paralysis to all other In- M
dustries in the state. M
Why then should an insidious blow be aimed M
at the leading industry through a constitutional M
amendment imposing double taxation on tho net M
proceeds of mines? M
If adopted we do not believe it would hold up M
against a half hour's investigation in any compe- H
tent court, but why try to pass the monstrosity
at H
The ordinary man may think that money ob H
tained from a mine is not different from a like H
amount received from any other product. H
But there is a vast difference. The early farm- M
ers in Utah found that if they had a bountiful H
crop, the prices for what they had raised, sud- H
denly fell. Again they found that when the mines H
doubled the money in circulation in Utah, their H
products, suddenly, were doubled in value. It is H
an Inviolable law. H
So long as money remains the measure of val- H
ues and the medium of exchange, the amount in H
circulation in a community measures the value of H
everything else that community cuu proauce. H
Every farmer and every manufacturer, every H
producer of any useful thing should keep this fact H
In mind, that if he votes "Yes" on the proposed H
amendment, so far as his vote counts, it Is to the H
detriment of his own private business, and be- H
yond that he votes to kill tho cause of whatever H
prosperity ho has had in tho past In this state. H
Every nation, except ours makes a constant H
struggle to keep all its money at home and to H
meet its outside obligations through trade. H
To double the purchasing power or money by H
reducing the value of commodities one-half, when H
measured in money, and to this make interest H
bearing bonds outstanding a perpetual debt, a com- H
bine of bankers and interest gatherers caused H
twenty years ago the changing of half the money H
in the world into a commodity. We all remember H
the destruction wrought by that legislation. It H
was the crime of the ages. H
Two years ago tho business of the country H
was tottering under the effect of some sinister leg- H
islation, when suddenly untold sums began to H
come to us in payment for war munitions. That H
Btrearti of gold has been pouring in ever since and H
has doubled the money in circulation in the east,
and business under that same Inviolable law has fifl
been quickened as never before. That Is It has B
followed a natural law. Hj
.Whatever may have been the object, by the fl
framers of the proposed amendment, it is on its H
