The intelligent, common
Vol. 23, No. 59.
•'High Lai
Bunk
Common People.
By SCOTT NEARIXG.
The realroads have learned the
trick of pleading poverty. In the
Jolly-Roger days of their youthful
exploits they spat upon Mr. Common
People. Now tlieiy approach him,
gingerly, hat extended, and mumble
a well-conned story of "high labor
costs,* "increasing operating ratio,"
"decreasing net earnings' and "re­
ceiverships." Some of the ablest
men in the country make this plea.
Perhaps you believe it. Anyway,
suppose we look for a moment at the
poverty as it really is.
More than $900,000,000 in interest
and dividends were paid by the rail­
roads to their bondholders and stock­
holders in the last year, for which
the Interstate Commerce commission
has published complete figures—1914.
Unofficial returns show for 1915 and
1916 even higher dividend payments
than those of 1914.
The paper value. or capitalized
yalue of the railroads in 1914 was
eleven and a half billions of bonds
and eight and a half billions of
stocks. The interest paid on the
bonds amounted to 4 39 millions the
dividends paid on the stocks were
45 3 millions, and besides these pay­
ments there were 46 millions in mis­
cellaneous interest payment, making
the total paid in that year to the
owners of American railroad property
932 millions. Nine hundred thirty
millions paid in one year to the
owners of the American railroads in
return for their bare ownership!
"Still," cry the friends of the rail­
roads, "don't forget that only two
thirds of the Toalroad stocks pay
dividends.''
Stock Only "Rain Water."
The stoc'-is of the railroads are di­
vided into two classes—"preferrerd"
and "common." At the present time,
for each dollar of preferred, there
are about six dollars of common.
People who know railroad history in
the United States tell us that the
great bulk of railroad common stock
represented originally "good will,"
"future earning powar," "confi­
dence" and "hope"—in short, it was
good old-fashioned financial rain
water.
People knew this only too well a
few years back. In 1893 (a fairly
prosperous year) less than two-fifths
of the railroad stock pai.i any divi
^dends and these averaged only 5 per
cent. "What did this mean? Simply
that the future hopes for railroad
stocks wee far from realization, even
in a good year of the early nineties.
Then came the lean years, 1895, 1S9G
and 1897, during which less than
three-tenths of the railroad stocks
paid dividends. They have done
better ever since.
Tide Turned in 1897.
The. tide turned fn 1897. By 1901,
more than half of the stock were
paying dividends, averaging 5 per
cent. Today two-thirds of the stocks
are paying dividends.
The "confidence"' has been justi­
fied the "hope" realized. The av­
erage dividend on the dividend pay­
ing stock is S per cent on all the
stock the dividend equals 5 per cent.
The American people are paying
the owners of American railroads
'•$100,000 for each hour" of every-«lry
'i:i the 365 $3,000,000 for each
working day nearly & billion a year,
.in interest and dividends—paying
them merely because they are owners
.—and the railroads are shedding
crocodile tears over their poverty.
Solomon, in all his glory, asking
,alms Dives, soliciting a copper
ifrom the chance passer-by, would not
jhave been more laughable, or more
disgusting, either, than the 'railroads
of the United'- States, with nearly a.
pillion a year in interest and divi­
dends, pleading their princely pov­
erty to a credulous pubic.
sense
workiiiKinen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than
to
MOVIE OPERATORS GAIN.
CLEVELAND, Sept. 28.—Moving
I picture operators huve raised wages,
'from $17.50 to ?20.75 a week.
Rising prices are the riddle and the
Ogre of this day. They have baffled
the efforts of labor to regain a larger
portion of its product. They have
killed more children each moment
than gave Herod a murderer's repu­
tation for 20 centuries.
There have been plenty of expla
nations. Few economists, or would
be economists, editors or would-be
,editors have failed to write at least
one such explanation. Every poli­
tician has proven that his opponents
are responsible. Almost every legis­
lative body in the world and numer­
ous other governmental branches
have officially investigated and au­
thoritatively interpreted the results of
their investigation.
Wages anil Prices.
deal
witti a- picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
^her
Ham.*.
HUGE DIVIDENDS PAID
BY ROADS LAST YEAR
Matty Are Deceived Because
"Rain Water" Does Not
Yield Dividends.
Just how it is fashionable -to
JtJJii
McLean and "100,000,000 Baby"
Supply Gossip—While Em
ployes Fight.
SHERIFF AND GUNMEN
BRING REIGN OF TERROR
Mayor and Marshal of Rosiclare,
111., Deporter By Miiing
Companies.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 3.—While
Edward B. McLean and his "$100,
000,000 baby" continue to supply
Washington and its" tourists witli
gossip, the striking flur-spar miners
who helped produce McLean's
wealth at Rosiclare, in southern Illi­
nois, are waging a desperate battle
with stravation and- gunmen.
Aided by the sheriff of Hardin
county, armed guards in the employ
of the McLean and one other min­
ing company have instituted, a reign
of terror for the striking mineral,
their families and all who sympath­
ize with them.
It was not enough to order strik­
ers and their families out of town
under threat of violence. Embold­
ened by the support of the sheriff,
the company deputies have even de­
ported the mayor of the city, the
city marshall, and members of the
city council.
A full statement of occurences at
Rosiclare has been sent to the Com­
mittee on Industrial Relations by
William J. Sneed, jr., international
organizer for the United#Mine Work­
ers of America, a citizen of Illinois.
It follows:
"On July 19, Colonel Shand, assist­
ant adjutant general of Illinois came
to Rosiclare as the personal repre­
sentative of Governor Dunne to in­
vestigate the appeal for the militia
made by the company. He found
that there were about 20 deputies
rworn in by the sheriff, but being
paid by the mining companies to
guard and intimidate strikers. He
refused the companies the militia,
ordered the sheriff to depose the gun
men, and instructed the Mayor to
swear in, with the approval of the
city council, enough special police
to protect the citizens of Rosiclare
from violence and intimidation. In­
stead of guarding company property,
the guards were loafing around town
intimidating strikers.
Homes Shot Into.
"The Mayor and city council did
as commanded, but the sheriff and
company did not discharge the depu­
ties. Colonel Shand returned to
Springfield, thinking the sheriff and
the company would obey the law.
But after a night or two it become
an every night affair for 6triking
miners' homes to be shot into.
"In a few days business men In
sympathy with the companies de­
manded of the mayor that he re­
move the special police, as it was
costing thei city government too
much. The mayor complied. Im­
mediately the guards and gun men
began bulldozing strikers and their
friends, until a clash occurred be­
tween the strikers and so-called dep­
uties, resulting in one gun man and
one striker being seriously wounded.
The company had previously armed
thugs and gun men ^-ith riot guns
and automatics. They started a riot
and tried to shoot up the doctor's
office where an injured striker was
being attended. About 20 gun men
came across the river from Starrs
ville, Kentucky, with false faces on,
and along with thugs on the Illinois
side, began ordering the strikersi and
sympathizers to leave town on pen
alty of death, crying they would
lynch the mayor or shoot him if they
could find him.
"About 100 men with their fami­
lies, wives and children, walked or*
went up the river in boats to Eliza
bethtown, the county seat. They
were told that there would be 200
I night riders over from Kentucky to
wipe the union _men_- off the map.
An -old lady 75 years _old was pre­
paring supper wjieu she was told she
had 15 minutes "to" leave tdwn. She
begged to "be allowed to, eat supper
and was told she had better not let
the sun go down on her head if she
wanted to live. So she went. Gun
msnt went into the/ house bf the
mayor and scattered powder on the
floor, ripped up the carpets and ran­
sacked everything in every room.
They _went into another .house, \ut
(Continued on Page 2.)
charge that the high wages of labor
are responsible. We are told that
high rents are due to. the wages paid
in the building, trades. We are in­
formed that railroad rate3 must be
raised to meet the raise that the
railroad men have not yet received.
When looking for the cat that
killed the canary a fairly intelligent
man would watch for a feline with
feathers in her teeth. When looking
for the cstuse of high prices why not
look for the money that has been
paid by the consumer?
We shall
not
find
it-
in the wage-
earner's pocket. The total income
o: all those who received wages and
salaries in 1910 was a little .over
$14,000,000, If,it has been increas­
ing at the same rate it-increased
previous, to that date, it is now about
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC KEFORM AND
The voters didn't do a thing with the tax amendment
at last Tuesday's election. It was a two to one sBb^i^tinst
the proposition! and it was driven home with considerable
force.
It was not altogether a renewal of the fight .between the
wets and the drys, but it was a protest against what many
people regard as an unnecessary waste of the city money by
the-commissioners.
The result of the election Was a direct slap at the city
hall, and if the officials down there are wise they wiU get
busy with their pruning knives and cut down the expense
of conducting the city government without further loss of
time.
We were told that when the saloons are forced out of
business it would not require as many police officers to main­
tain the public peace. And yet the 1917 budget contains a
provision for an increase in the police appropriation amount­
ing to $6,000.
Then there is that $35,000 appropriation for the installa­
tion of the two-platoon system in the fire department which
contemplates increasing the number of firemen by one-third.
The new motorized equipment should make it unnecessary
to have on duty as many men as were required on the old
horse-drawn equipment to respond to the ordinary fire calls.
In case of large conflagrations the force not on duty may be
called at a moment's notice.
The first five minutes at a fire are the most important.
The motorized equipment reaches a "fire in quick time, and
it would appear unnecessary to have such a large number of
firemen on duty for every trifling fire call. Our officials
have been decidedly progressive in purchasing fire fighting
equipment to protect property from damage by fire, but
they likewise are behind the times in studying how to man
the equipment in the interest of economy.
With a proper interlocking of the several divisions of the
city government, including the water and light department,
the waste time of a number of the city employes could be
utilised by shifting employes from one division to the other
where their services might be most needed at the timej thus
making it unnecessary to keep employed such a large number
of men. Of course such a change would contemplate placing
WILL BEGIN OCT. 9
State Fire Marshal Would Have
Whole State Aid Him
in His Work.
Fighting Minnesota's fire toll with
prevention, the year around, the state
fire marshal's department, is making
special efforts that all progressive
towns in the state will observe the
fifth annual "Fire Prevention Day" on
Monday, Oct. 9, as fiired by proclama­
tion of Governor J. A. A. Burnquist.
Toward further reducing the annual
fire loss of life and property and aid­
ing in the Minnesota-made-fireproof
movement, State Fire Marshal Robert
W. Hargadine suggests that in live
communities-
Mayors will issue like proclama­
tions urging local celebrations of the
day—tireless celebrations
Civic and commercial organizations
will arrange meetings to plan to make
the home town fireproof
Schools will have appropriate exer­
cises—talks on the danger of the
small boy and match, and like combi­
nations
Men and women will look about
their homes and clear away attic, base­
ment, back yard or other accumula­
tions that make for fire danger.
"If Minesota people will only stop
to think that the nation's fire toll is
5,000 lives a year and $500 loss a
minute although two-thirds of the
fire are preventable, fire prevention
day this year will be a big success in
every town," said Fire Marshal Harga­
dine. "Every person in the state will
join in the movement because sick­
ness and fire are nearest to them—
liable to 'strike home' any day."
Records in the fire marshal's office
show gradual reduction in the fire
losses in Minnesota, and part of the
credit for the showing is given to the
general observance of fire prevention
day each year in all cities.
KEY MEN INCREASE WAGES.
ST. PAUL, Minn., Sept. 21.—North­
ern Pacific railroad telegraphers
have been awarded wage increases,
shorter hours and improved working
conditions. The new schedule will
become effective about Oct. 1 and
affects 500 men.
$16,000,000.
But the total wealth of the United
States in 1910 was about $150,000,
000,000. Two years later it was esti­
mated by the census officials at over
$187,000,000,000. Today the same of­
ficials put it at nearly $250,000,000,
00.
Manifestly, if the wage-earners had
saved every dollar they received, they
could have accumulated but a small
proportion of this increased wealth.
Pull these figures to pieces and see
if we can find where the feathers are
clinging. The -census carefully ar­
ranges its figures tb make any conclu­
sion as to the distribution of wealth
as difficult as possible. Statisticians
have often pointed/ this out, but the
census officials refuse to give out the
information desired. Congress has
also just refused to. permit the public
UULLTH AND SUPERIOR, SEPTEMBER 30,1916.
COMMISSIONERS ORDERED BY PEOPLE
TO USE PRUNING KNIFE ON EXPENSES
By WILLIAM
Printerman Must (&ve Way to
Chipanzee, Says Hono­
lulu Man.
INDIANAPOLIS, Sept. 28.—The
newspaper printer is doomed and joy
reigns in the camp of every advo­
cate of "scientific management." The
The printerman must make way for
chimpanzees.
Writing in the Typographical Jour­
nal from Honolulu, A. B. H. Cole
tells the story of Biz Fox, a chim­
panzee linotype operator, who com­
posed 101,000 ems solid brevier in
eight hours and forty-five minutes.
The chimpanzee has other accom­
plishments besides being a "swift."
He is a champion bicycle rider and
has been arrested by traffic police­
men. It is stated that a conpany is
being formed to supply newspapers
with chimpanzee operators. About
the only drawback to this arrange­
ment is the question of morals. The
organized printerman does not get
drunk, but his rival is an excessive
patron of the flowing bowl. That
newspapers may be published regu­
larly, Correspondent Cole says the
Company wiU rer^ady this evil
crossing the chimpanzee with the
white-faced monkey of China and
make him a temperance advocate.
Under the new conditions, employ­
ers will no longer be bothered with
wage scales and arbitration proceed
ings, but the company will demand
that no chimpanzee farmed out by it
shall be worked more than 14 hours
a day and that they shall be fed at
least three times eVery 24 "hours on
cocoanuts, squid, sea weed and choc­
olate candy.
To silence the scoffer and-doubting
Thomas, 7*1 rC Cole forwarded the pic­
ture of Biz Fox, seated in front of a
linotype machine,- as proof that an­
other labor displacer is Jure
ORGANIZING CIGAR GIRLS.
CINCINNATI, Sept. 21.—The Ci
garmakers' union is conducting an
organizing campaign among girls
employed in this industry.. .President
Perkinc of the international ^tinion
has appointed a special organizer for
this work.
cation of the income tax schedules.
Someone must be trying to hide
feathers.
Value of Real Property.
The total value of "real property
and improvements" in 1912 was $110,
676,333,071. Nowhere can you find
out just how much was improve­
ments, except on farm land. Here
$34,000,000,004 out of $40,000,000,
000 was land value. Many investiga­
tions have shown that the proportion
for city and suburban property is still
higher. Therefore we are well within
the safety limit when we say that
between $80,000,000,000 and $90,000,
000,000 out 6f the 5110,000,000,000
represents the value of unimproved
land.
This wa* four yean ago. The rate
of increase would lift this to at _l*a*t
$120,000,000*000. Here theii tir a fin®
POLITIC AT.
E. McEWEN*
all city divisions under one roof and having all clerical work
performed in one great counting room.
XTp-to-date organization- -methods along this line would
save the people thousands rof dollars annually in salaries.
There would be no loafing on the job, and the city would get
a full eight-hour service from each employe every day. This
i4 not animpracticable proposition. The "plan has been
forked out with marked success in the postal service. In
tfie Washington post office alone $66,000 a year is being
saved in salaries.
I There is no good reason why each division should main
tifn and operate separate workshops' when all could be placed
vfith good advantage under one roof, and this applies par­
ticularly to the water and light, fire, park and publie works
departments. The economy to be effected by such an ar­
rangement should materially cut the maintenance and repair
cdst on city owned equipment. It is good business, and under
ideal commission government would have been planned at
the outset.
The city budget will be increased $100,000 in 1917, of
which sum $57,000 is to be applied to the interest and sinking
funds, and $9,000 to pay the cost of a judgment entered
against the city recently in park condemnation proceedings.
The permanent improvement fund will suffer a loss of
$119,000, and the general fund wiU lose the saloon license
money.
Now in view of the fact that the voters have defeated the
proposed charter amendment to increase the tax levy, the
commissioners have a mandate from the people to begin at
once to .practice economy in every line of municipal activity,
not by reducing salaries and wages, but by abolishing offices
that they can get along without, by interlocking the work
of the several divisions, and by utilizing all of the working
time of all the employes.
If the commissioners do not make some move in this di­
rection between now and the April election t'hey might as
well start gathering up their personal effects and prepare to
vamoose, and make room for commissioners who will meet
the present situation with a better and more capable business
spirit.
It is up to the commissioners.
PROGRESS.
TUBERCULOSIS WEEK
WILL BEGIN DEC. 3
Churches and Many ifther Organ­
izations Will Take Part
in Program.
Dec. 3 to Dec. 10 inclusive has been
set aside as Tuberculosis week in the
United States, according to an an­
nouncement today "by The National As­
sociation for the Study and Prevention
of Tuberculosis.
During this week an effort will be
made to enlist the co-operation of
every church, school, anti-tuberculosis
and public health organization, lodge,
and working men's organization in the
United States in an active effort to
bring tuberculosis to the attention of
the people.
Three, special feature days will be
held during the week. Dec. 6 will be
National Medical Examination day. On
that day an effort will be made to get
everybody, men, Women and children,
whether sick or well, to be examined
in order to find out if they have iany
defects or impairments of their bodies
that need attention. If examination is
not possible on Dec. 6, appointments
will be made then for later examina­
tion.
Dec. 8 will be Children's Health
Crusade day. It is hoped at that time
to launch a national organization of
Modern Health Crusaders, an associa­
tion of the children of the United
States ih the public schools, for fight­
ing against tuberculosis and for better
health.
Dec. S or 10 will be observed, ac­
cording to the convenience of the
churches, as Tuberculosis day. A spe­
cial sermon and a series of talking
points for ministers and others have
been prepared and will-be ready for
distribution in-the near future.
Last year" over 160,000 organiza­
tions and institutions.-touk part in the
Tubefculosis-Week celebration. It is
expected that this year this' number
will be greatly increased.
RESTAURANT EMPLOYES STRIKE
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Sept. 28.—
One hundred restaurant employees
are on strike for a .10-hour day, time
and one-half for overtime, one day off
in seven and a grievance committee
to adjust future disputes.
bqnch of feathers around the mouth
of the landlord. At least 10 times the
total annual .wages: of the workers of
this country. ......
If it were possible to examine into
the wealth in the hands of the great
transportation u.nd manufacturing in­
dustries we should find most of the
remaining Increase in valuation in the
United States. /We should find items
like the $600,000,000 value given to
the once worthless common stock of
the United States Steel company. We
should find many more millions added
to the capitalization of railroads. We
should discover that something like
an veh billion had been absorbed by
the" "busted" Standard Oil company.
Ws should find Jhat the capital of the
national banks had incveqfeed from
$621,000,000 in -}?10 to: over a billion
in andthat theirdepoaits had
4
SOCIETY
1
Committee on Real Preparedness
Holds Conferences In Many
Large Cities.
WAGE BATTLE IN BEHALF
OF WHOLE POPULATION
Questions Vital to Labor Put Up
to Men Running for
Congress.
NEW YORK, Sept. 28.—The Com­
mittee on Real Prepared:.ess »of
which Amos Pinchot is chairman, is
conducting a series of conferences
throughout the eastern half of the
United States. Fourteen have already
ben held in industrial centers such as
New York, Chicago, St. Louis, Kan­
sas City, Mineapolis and Pittsburgh,
and several more are to be held this
month in southern cities and in New
England. Committees are being or­
ganized in nearly every state of the
union to ask all candidates for con­
gress whether they favor and will, if
c'ected work for the following pro­
posals of the committee:
Proposals Suggested
Meeting the cost of local govern­
ment by heavier taxation of land
values and untaxing Improvements
and all products of labor. Rapidly
progressive taxation of large incomes,
especially unearned incomes, to meet
the cost of the federal government
and a rapidly progrssive inheritance
tax for federal and state govern­
ments.
Federal acquisition of all natural
mopopolies, the present owners to be
paid onl the value they have given
thereto plus the present value of im­
provements therein and thereon.
Social Insurance against sickness
and accidents.
Benjamin C. Marsh, executive sec­
retary of the committee, who has
spoken at all the conferences, cites
the following facts as showing the
need for this fundamental program
of preparedness for peace—and to
prevent war
One-half of one per cent of the
population of the country receive
nearly one-fifth of the national in­
come
At least 630,000 people in the'
country die -unnecessarily every year
An overwhelming majority of our
industrial population are more or less
seriously injured physically. Only,
about one-tenth of the applicants for
enlistment in the United States ma­
rine corps ih 1915 were accepted
and most of the reactions were due to
physical defections
About two-thirds of the country's
population have no wealth, except
the clothes on their back, and littl'e
furniture or personal property.
"An heriditary monarch, says Mr.
Marsh, "with the slogan: 'After me,
the deluge, could not have fostered
conditions more inciting to revolu­
tion than obtain in our country."
Organized labor has achieved well
nigh a miracle in shortening hours
of work and increasing the number
of dollars paid the proportion of
the workers of the country now or­
ganized. The future task is io keep
present gains, but to raise the general
well being- of all workers. This in­
volves two fundamental changes:
Eliminating the raids govern­
ment makes upon the earnings of
the workers, through our present
system of securing revenue for gov­
ernmental purposes, which costs
eve-y family in the country on the
average about 4180 a year. This can
be done by the triple tax, urged by
the committee, on land values, on
large inheritances and on large un­
earned incomes.
Elimination of Parasites.
Eliminating parasites who charge
heavy prices for natural sources and
services necessarily monopolistic in
nature, such as transportation and
all public utility undertakings. This
will be done by government acquisi­
tion thereof, as urged by this com­
mittee, and cannot be.dpne in any
other way.
xAs
Mr. Delos F. Wilcox,
franchise expert, points out, govern­
mental regulation pjibiic utilities
is a complete failure. These corpor­
ations now insist upon having regu­
lation. As Mr. Wilcox says: "They
are so enthusiastic "over it that they
help write the' laws (creating pub­
lic .service commissions), and appoint
the commissioners."
Government Ownership.
"Government ownership of" rail-
(Continued on Page
grown from $2,000,004,000 to $6,000,
000,000.
Altogether we- should easily dis­
cover that about $200,000,000,000 of
the value of this country is in the
possession of those who-receive rent,
interest and profits therefrom, and
who have accumulated this property
largely through these sources.
Beside the staggering sum re­
quired to pay tribute* to ownership,
the sums paid for wages are insig­
nificant. The possession of the land,
now that the frontier of the world is
gone, gives to its owners the power
to exact an ever-increasing sum from
everything that- touches land at any
stage in its production. The owner­
ship of industrial monopolies givefc
the same pbwer.
The working class movement to
be most effective must be conducted
|ly the workers themselves In the in­
terest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called in.
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
1
MonoJoljrrofIleaources.
Hwre is something thaithe
TWO CENTS.
STATE FOR WILSON
Reports of Most Optimistic Na­
ture Come in to Demo
cratic Headquarters.
MANY REPUBLICANS TO
SUPPORT ^PRESIDENT
North Dakota Senator of Stal
wart School Will Stump
Northwest.
"Minnesota for Wilson" looks like
a» reality. Reports from the firing line
in the 86 counties tell of unprece
dented sentiment for the president.
Not wiihin the memory of the oldest
voter has there been such a Demo­
cratic trend as has been reported in
the last few weeks. Watch Minne­
sota. The North Star state is going to
fool some of our Republican brethren.
News that H. C. Hansbrough, for 18
years United States senator from North
Dakota is ready to stump the north­
west for Wilson, must give Mr.
Hughes pause. That a member of
the old stalwart school would desert
the party that honored him three
terms in the upper house, is worthy
of notice. He declares Hughes is bad
enough but the Roosevelt-Perkins
combination is more than he can
stomach.
"We have reason to be proud of
our president. What man stands first
before the world? Is it England's
kingi Germany's kaiser, Russia's czar,
or Austria's emperor? No. It is Pres­
ident Wilson. He is fighting our bat­
tles. He is entitled to our support.
Let us stand by him!" This is an
excerpt from a speech by Hon. Sam R.
Van Sant, the grand old man of
Minnesota Republicanism, delivered
on Wilson day, June 22, 1916. at a
memorial to the president arranged
by the Minneapolis Daily News. Ap­
parently, Mr. Van Sant's mind has
changed completely in a year. There
must be a reason.
The speech by Senator J. Hamilton
Lewis in Minneapolis the night of
Sept. 18 as one of the most convinc­
ing political arguments ever heard
locally. More people were turned
away from the auditorium than were
able to enter. The Illinois man's tal?
ipade a profound impression on those
ho heard him
Daniel W. Lawler, Thomas Dwer,
Neil Cronin, O. A. Hedin and Madison
Bowler were among those who spoke
at the Lewis meeting. Their talks
were straight from the shoulder and
dealt with state and national issues.
Julius Thorson of Benson, Demo­
cratic candidate for lieutenant gov­
ernor, is one aspirant for political
preferment who is talking little but
is sawing wood. The rancor engen­
dered, by the Frankson-Peterson
Gates fight in the primaries is still
in evidence and many are betting that
the Swift county man will wield the
gavel in the next senate.
National headquarters in Chicago i?
a place of supreme optimism. A re­
cent visit there by Democratic State
Chairman Fred E. Wheaton and Pub­
licity Manager Joe McDermott. re­
vealed a workshop that would make
a beehive look like an institution of
indolence. "Wilson is getting stronger
every day." said Senator Walsh of
Montana, western manager of the
campaign.
"I am sorry that I-cannot meet every
farmer of Minnesota," Senator H. F.
Hollis of New Hampshire told Demo­
cratic Chairman F. E. Wheaton on the
latter's recent visit to Chicago. Sena­
tor Holli's is author of the farm loans
measure and believes it the greatest
piece of constructive legislation in
years. He declares that if he could
get the ear of every farmr for five
minutes to explain the aJvantags of
the law, there would not be any doubt
as to the result of the election.
The Sherburn Advance-Standard,
the White Earth Tomahawk and the
Hopkins News are a few of the for­
mer Republican papers in line for
Wilson.
TO PROBE SHINGLE INDUSTRY.
OLYMPIA, Wash., Sept. 28.—The
shingle industry of this state will be
probed as the result of statements
made by President Marsh of the state
federation of labor at the annual con­
vention .in Everett* The movement
will be aided by the Shingle Weavers'
union, whose officers say that these
workers, as a class, are afflicted with
throat and lung troubles, because of
poisonous dust.
nomists who wrote of a competitive
society could not forsee. Here is a
•power of universal banditry from
which there is no escape while the
possession of land and. capital re­
mains in private hands.
That this monopoly' of the re­
sources of the world is the cause of
the ever-rising tide of prices that
threatens to engulf mankind in uni­
versal poverty is proven again by the
fact that the one Island in this ocean
of rising-prices is to be found in Aus­
tralia, where alone this monopoly is
being swiftly transferred to public
ownership. Prices are rising there
also, but much slower, and least of
all on th". products whose sources
of supply and means of production
and distribution have passed into the
ownership of the government—Mil­
waukee Leade"
