T HE Wahinton Herakl is a i
wekme early *orin i ape a a p mr vewyr w
w whie it is new is be
guest m ahnost every gd
worth-whie home in. Wuimgtom T Waulngtom by7Te HeraId
NO. 3634. WETMM-FAm. WASHIINIGTON. D. C., AY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1916. ONE CZNT.
GREECE HAGGLES
OVER WAR TERMS
Seeks to Settle Territorial
Claims Before Moving.'
(By the laternatiemal News Service.)
London, Sept. 29-Greece tonight is re
ported haggling with the entente over
the territorial terms before taking the
final action which will bring her into the
war against the central powers.
This Information is contained in a dis
patch from Rome which quotes the well
informed newspaper Messagero. It is
stated that Greece has asked the allies
if they are still disposed to make all the
oncessions promised for Greece's co.oper
ation at the time of the Saloniki Incident
Greece some time since announced the
annexation of northern Epirus. being, at
the time in close touch with Germany.
This section. which Is in southern Al
banin. also is believed to be desired by
Italy and for that reason Greece ap
parently is determined to know just
where she stands before committing her
self finally. The allies hold the upper
band in the situation, however, and with
Constantine face to face with war or
revoution, his action, it is believed, can
not be long delayed.
No word has yet been received of the
action taken at the crown council today
at which the ultimatum to Bulgaria was
to be completed. Dispatches are anxious
ly awaited here.
Meanwhile the revolution is spreading
by leaps and bounds. Not only has the
Greek warship Hydra been seized by the
rebels and brought to join the allied fleet
in Salamis Bay. hut the Kilkis. formerly
the United States battleship Idaho, also
is reported to have deserted. The Greek
ministry of marine denied this and the
minister has expressed the deepest re
gret over the defection of the Hydra.
but the report persists in Athens. where
all is excitement.
NOVELETTE CONFESSION
BARES LOVE TRIANGLE
Milionaire Avers Girl-Bride Used "Un
su!!ied Body" as Asset.
(By the international News Service.)
New York. Sept. 9--"A novelette con
feasion" ailevd to have been written by
19-vear-olj Asta Asche is the basis of a
suit for annulment tiled today by her
ht-band. Herman T. Asche, 40-year-old
millionaire importer. The couple's mar
ried hliss lasted Just six weeks-the
re-vard of nine years' patient waiting on
As -h rs part-for he fel in love with
Asta 7.hvn re was but I years old.
Ait sa heart. Asche charges, never be
1"nd to hirn. but burned in loyal love
for a young artist. It was to the latter
so far the "man of rrystery" in the
stran :e case-that the "novelette con
feslm, .of his beautiful young bride was
in it, she reveals, according to
i11 sban!'. af''irhvit, that her mar
to hi7 Was a plot to get his
T vle t i, entitled "Justice" and
:.r h ,t- ar-e! 1,the story of young
Atu o hr matrimonial vent
Urv was an tsthett' dancer. The
rmoream, i- described as a girl
1:- 1 ro of the power of !,-r
nnor al men, rctairs "an unsullied
L,, becau-e she realizes that with that
i, in a4s'e t could play for higher
SPEED KINGS TO CLASH
FOR ASTOR CUP TODAY
Th'rtv-t-o Cars Will Face Starter at
Sheepshead Bay.
I By the Internation-al News Service.)
w York, ht. '.--Thirty-two cars
wSl start at 2 O c'clock tomorrow aft
ernoorn at the Sheepshead Bay Speed
wa I i the s'ruggle for the big si;%er
trph' d. -ated a year ago by Vincent
A'tcr, and known cc the Astor Cup, and
STM1 in ich prz-r. of which SlleIM
will go to the winner.
It is certain to be one of the most
senlationa! races of the year, as it wi;
be th last 'hance but one for the drivers
to caiture an unusually large purse.
Twenty-seven cars have already shown
their ability to negotiate the two-mile
bowl at a speed of ninety or more miles
an hour, that being the minimum set by
the contest board, but there remain seven
others to ho tested. Two, therefore, will
be eliminated, as the field must be kept
to thirty-two. Among those who must
qualify are De Palma, Muller, Test and
McBride
BAGS THREE TEUTON PLANES.
Frenchman Does Job in Two Min
stem and Thirty Seconds.
Paris. Sept. 29.-A new war record has
la en achieved by Second Lieut. George
Guynemer, of the French air service by
shoc:ing down three German aeroplanes
In two minutes and thirty seconds.
Despatches from the front told of this
exploit. Guynemer's machine fell 10,000
feet. but the aviator miraculously es
caped death. Guynemer, who is known
as "King of the Aces," has shot down
eighteen German machines.
TIN PLATES SAVE SOLDIERS.
Worn by British to Guide Their
Own Gunners.
New York. Sept. 29.-British soldiers in
the first line trenthes are wearing huge
plates of tin on thetr backs In order to
keep from being mowed down by their
own artillery. sccording to Isaac F.
Marcosson, an American writer, who asr
rived here today 1rom England on the
Baltic.
The tin plates. be explained, send out
reflections easily seen by the artillery
men and they are enabled to regulate
their range above their own troops.
TEACHER TEAPS TO DEATH.
Seores of Pupils See Woman Jump
fr~om Window.
New York, Sept. 29.-While scores of
pupils looked on. Miss Maibelle Griffin, as-,
sistant principal of private school at No.
17 East Sixtieth street. leaped from a
fourth-story window -in the building this
afternoon, Death was almost instan
I Telegraph Tips
New York. Sept. M,---Twentyii ne
caeo infant paraysis and twe1V
deaths were reported today. 1he tota
to date Is 9,012 nd 2.22, respectively.
Morristown. N. J.. Sept. 2,-Mrs. Ed
ward Scott. widely known in society anW
horse show circles, who was hurt by thi
tall of her horse at the Morristown Hra
Show yesterday, was reported today tc
be dying.
Philadelphia, Pa., Sept. 29.-Assembl]
exercises this morning in Weightmar
Hall gymnasium formally opened th4
University of Pennsylvania's 176th acad
emic year. The total enrollment of stu
dents is about 8.700, which is a new higt
record for the institution.
Lcndon. Sept. 29-Greek revolutionisto
have captured the island of Hydra.. A
dersptch to the Telegraph from Canea,
Crete. this afternoon. states that Gen
Danglis. forfner chief of staff of the
Greek army, has gone to Saloniki to joir
the revolutionists.
Amsterdam. Sept. 29.-The German ner
chant submarine Deutschland is ready foi
a second trip to the United States, ac
cording to the Local Anselger.
Amsterdam (via London). Sept. 29.
Gen. Wandel has been dismissed frort
his post as acting minister of war. ac
cording to a Berlin despatch.
Winnipeg, Manitoba. Sept. 29.-Safe
blowers robbed the Bank of Hamiltor
Branch at Caron, Saskatchewan. eighteer
miles west of Moose-Jaw early today, and
escaped with $9.00. The telephone and
telegraph wires leading into the towr
Pwere out.
London, Sept. 29.-Sir William Henry
Dunn was elected lord-mayor of London
today.
Hoboken. N. J.. Sept. 29.-Stockholder
of the International Mercantile Marine
today approved the making of an appli
cation to the courts removing the re
.vership an-d puttig, back the company
in the hands of stockholders of record
on October I.
San Antonio, Tex.. Sept. 29.-Piedra!
Nrgrap. a border town opposite Eagle
Pa ens been put under martial law.
Mtanv officers of the garrison were ar
'-d ,y Gen. Peialdi, military com.
mandant, on the charge of participating
in a Villista plot.
Asbury Park. N. J.. Sept. 29-Announce.
ment was made at the President's ex.
" 1!i. aflices today that John M. Par.
ker. Progressive nominee for the Vice
Presideny,. will speak for President Wil.
i N. . York New Jersey and Ohio.
Kansas City. Mo., Sept. 29.-Peter W
Goebel. of Kansas City, Kans.. was to.
Cay elected President of the Americar
Bankers' Association and C. A. Hinach
of Cincinnati. Ohio, vice president. The
secretaryv As instructed to cast an
unanimous vote for both men.
South Lawrence, Mass., Sept. 29.-The
Portland express, on the Boston and
Maine Railroad. crashed into a freight
train, giving the passengers a shaking up.
Berlin. Sept. 29 -A census of Prussian
livestock, the Overseas News Agency an
nounces, shows an increase of 2.r0.000 in
the number of hogs between June 1 and
September 1.
Higuland. Kan . Sept. 29 -Miss Ella
Eaton, who will teach in the schools of
Metcalf, Ariz., this year. will receive a
bonus of $5 a month if she refrains from
marrying until spring.
El Paso, Texas, Sept. 29.-Capt. Edwin
P. Thompson, acting regimental adju
tant of the Twentieth United States In
fantry. is dead from peritonitis at the
base .ospital at Fort Bliss.
Massillon. Ohio, Sept. 29.-Commenc
ing October 1. Massillon physicians wili
charge 75 cents for office calls an
$2 for night calls. Formerly rates were
50 cents and $1.51.
Fon Du Lac, Wis, Sept. 29.-ChristopheT
Price, one of the crew of the Monitor it
her fight with the Merrimac in the civi
war. is dead at hIs home at Stockbridg'
today at the age of 79.
Long Beach. Cal., Sept. 29.-he Uniter
States submarine L-7 has just beer
.anched li,-re. Mrs. W. B. Fogarty, ol
San Franeilco, wtfe of Naval Constructo
Fogarty, iretector in harge of the sub
marine's building, - bristened the vessel.
Augusta. Me -pt. 2 -Official return
of the State election as tabulated show
that Carl F. Miliken. Republican, hai
been elected governor over Oakley C
Curtis, Democratic incumbent, by a
majority of 13.598 in the largest total vote
ever cast in Maine.
Melbourne, Sept. 29.-Floods have made
breaches in the river levees in this region,
Inundating one hundred square miles ol
country. The town of Moropux has been
virtually submerged. Ballan has had ter
inches of rain. Six inches of rain have
fallen at Melbourne.
Valparaiso, Ind., Sept. 29.-A bomt
was hurled in a book store at the Val.
paraiso University. smashing a window
and shattering part of the wall. Police
man Charles Cook was stunned. After
the explosion Rudolph Will, bartender
was held up by an armed man. whc
escaped with S450.
Willemstad. Curacao, Sept. 29.-Seno
Aranguren, formerly temporary president
of the state of Zulia, Venezuela, and a
number of his followers who were ar
rested in May on a charge of mutiny
against the newly appointed president ol
the state. Gen. Garcia. have been re
leased.
Connellsvlle. Pa., Sept. 29-Armedl
guards have beeg~ placed around the house
of Alfred Ma. Fuller 'tollowing the receipt
of threatening letters demanding money.
One dummy package, placed in a hollow
tree as the writer desIgnated. disappearedi
-without the guards being able to leart
who took it.
Fort Myers, Fla.. Sept. 29.-Leland Rice,
one of four bandits who robbed the State
Bank, of Homestead. of 86.000 two weeks
ago and eluded a sheriff's posse in a
chase of several days through the Ever
glades and by motor boat along the
coast, has been shot and killed in Choko
loskee Island by Rollo Wiggins,
Havana. Sept. 29.--Claims against the
city of Havana aggregating more that
S3.. ,00 held by Walter Stanton, for*
merly of New York and for many years a
financial figure In Havana, based on ser
vices alleged to have been rendered under
Spanish domination prior to 11198, have
been annulled by a decree of President
Menocal.
Quiekest Serviee te 2aitiesere.
Every Hour on the Hour. Baltimore and
Ohio; $1.75 round trip. Saturdays and
Rundavat. tilSt...Ehw.
WILSON NETTLED
Answers Attack for "Pro
British Policies."
(BY the International News SerYie.)
Asbury Park. N. J., Sept. IS.-Presi
dent Wilson authorized the publication
here today of a telegram from Jere
miah A. O'Leary, president of the
American Truth Society, criticising his
alleged pro-British policies. In his
answer, which was also made public.
the President said:
"I would feel deeply mortified to
have you or anybody like you vote for
me."
President Wilson, the International
News Service is authorised to state.
does not intend to answer the criti
cisms of his administration by the Re
publican candidate, Mr. Hughes, for
the present at least. He does not con
sider that Mr. Hughes has touched
upon the real issues of the campaign.
Beginning probably tomorrow, when he
will address the Young Men's National
League of Democratic Clubs, the Presi
dent proposes to ask Mr. Hughes a num
ber of questions. These will deal with
the foreign policy, changes in the tariff.
Mexico, and all vital matters which
would be inherited by the Republican
party In the event of Democratic defeat
in November. Mr. Hughes will be asked
what Particular tariff schedules he pro
Poses to change; how he would change
the foreign policy of the government as
long as the European war continues.
If mistakes have been made by the
Democratic administration. Mr. Wilson
takes the position that it will do the
country no good to hold a post mortem.
The President has stated that he does
not consider the criticisms by Mr. Hughes
of the Adamson eight-hour law to be
worthy of an answer.
During the campaign speeches yet to
be made he will further explain the
purpose of this law and the circum
stances under which it was enacted.
JAMES CREEK CANAL
SOON TO BE MEMORY
Former Shipping Channel to Be Filled
as Heath Move.
The historic James Creek Canal. be
tween N and P streets southwest, must
I be sacriticed to the demands of sanita
tion.
Health Officer V. C. Woodward some
time ago condemned it as a breeding
ground of contagion, but a quibble as to
whether it came under supervisan of
Congress as a navigable stream prevent
ed action by the District. Corporation
Counsel Conrad H. Syme gave an opin
ion, however, that it did not come under
the head of navigable waters, and re
upon the Commisiloners ordered it sled.
in the interests of the public. The Ma
ing *hse cam was held June 29. Foin
takeq yesterdany.
ae St Jamel Cre-k Canal as It was
originally known was a project of 7Ilaj.
L'Enfant in 1,91 when Washingt n was
'-ing laid out. In 1792 work was begun
,n it. but soon discontinued beeause of
lack of funds to carry it on. In 1795 pri
vate capital finished the trench which
connected Tiber Creek with St. James
Creek, frning what was ca!led "the Is
land." At that time. when the Fastern
Branch was the head of navigation for
ig vesris it wias a great advantage to
the shippers of Washington.
The anal was one and one-eighth miles
long. It was used by boats of consider
able siz. until the time of the civil war.
In iecent years the canal ha-s been a
had of stagnant water where mosquitoes
bred and all manner of filth accumulated.
WOMEN MAKE APPEAL
FOR WHEAT EMBARiO
Nation-wide Agitation for Probe Start
ed in Chicago.
By the International News Service.)
Chicago, Sept. :.-"Feed America first,'
was the slogan adopted this afternoon
by delegates from every woman's club
in ,hicag, who assembled in mass meet
1ig In the Auditorium Hotel, under the
auspices of the Woman's Association of
Commerce to d!scuss the increase in
the price of bread.
A resolution petitioning President Wil
son and Congress to place an embargo
or restrict the exportation of wheat was
adopted, and the delegates instructed to
return to their individual clubs and be
gin an acive campaign for an embargo
as well as a thorough investigation in
to the price of flour.
It is planned to make the program na
tion wide. An appeal will be sent to
wonin's clubs in every city in the coun
tre. No quarter will he given.
SHIPPING MERGER HITED.
Unglish and qanadian Lines May
Be Combined.
London. Sept. 29.-A hint of a great
shipping merger is contained in the fol
lowing dispatch put out by the Central
News Agency today:
'Important negotiations are occurring
for the development of English and Ca
nadian shipping services. The Canadian
Pacific. the Allan, the Canadian North
ern and Cunard lines are affected.'
REBELS STEAL WARSHIP,
Party of Greek. in Civilian Attire
Board Naval Vessel at Night.
Piraeus. Sept. 27 (via L.ondon), Sept 29.
-The defection to the revolutionists of the
Greek warshlp Hydra in the small hours
of this morning has caused great excite
ment in thie Greek port. The Hydra,
anchored under the guns of the arsenal
last night, was silently boarded at 3
o'clock this morning by a party of men
In civilian dress.
Two tugs towed her to Salamis Bay,
where the allied warships are stationed.
MSTERY IN SHOOTING.
Wealthy Brookline Restaurant
Keeper Dies of Wounds.
Boston, Sept. 29.-Frank Marshall, a
wealthy restaurant keeper, died at his
home in Brookline early today follow
ing a mysterious shooting affray in a
taxicab. Members of the family, re
fused to iscuss the affair.
Marshtal was the father of Carl Mar
PO@WEMB MUEDEREE
senmafte.A' Manhust Mes in
seath of Blaek.
Charlesta% S. C.. Sept. 3.-Henry
IawIs, a IeSr who shot N. J. Allisbrooks
a rure] potainsan eight days ago, was
killed by a Pease today after one of the
most nmatiaal manhunts In the his
tory of the tat&
Bloodhounds and posse trailed him
through the swampt for six days. He
opened fir en the posse from ambush.
but was riddled with bullets before any
one came within range.
WIFE MURDERED
Husband to BeArrested in Con
nection, with Ghastly Case.
(By the Iaternatieal News Service.)
Mountain View, N. H., Sept. 2.-High
Sheriff Chendler tonight announced that
tomorrow he would prefer a charge of
first degMa murder against Frederick L.
Small, the body of whose wife was found
in a pool of water In the cellar of her
burning Ape at Lake Ossippee.
Around 'e woman's neck was a rope.
tightly tiflwn. Her head had been bat
tered with a bludgeon.
But for the poof of water the evidence
of murder would have been torever de
stroyed. The pool was in the basement
of the cottage, and when flames destroy
ed the structure, the woman's body fell
through the burning floor in such a way
that the head and neck landed in the
water and were saved from the flames.
Small was arrested during the day. At
the time the fire broke out in his cottage
he was miles away in Boston. He left his
summer home at 4 o'ciock in the after
noon Thursday. The fire was not discov
ered until about 10 o'clock at night. Any
theory involving an accusation against
the husband., who Is a Boston real estate
man, would have to attribute to him a
Pi.r. lor arranging an automatic means
for the cottage to catch ire after that
mnterv al.
Mrs. Small did not come out of the
house to say good-by to her husband
when he made his departure yesterday
afternoon. This fact Is disclosed by George
Kenneth, who drives the depot wagon.
anid who took smallo t s' n. Ken
neth says that on all previous occasions
of the same kind Mis. Small had made
her appearance and bidden her husband
an affectionate farewell.
CARRANZA PROPOSES
TO RUN BANK OF OWN
First Chief Would Cause Europeaan
Institutions to Close.
News was received through diplomatic
channels yesterday that Carranza pro
Pos" to run a bank of his own in Mex
ico City 'itpd to supprepa -r fatally ob
ru ,: Athe, bankiag i :tutons which
stanel in ihe way of his enterprise.
Carranza recently -ssued a decree the
exact terms of which are not known here.
It was rcarded by the British and
French governments as an attack on
the banks condpeted by the citizens of
those countries In Mexico City. One cf
th'se i the Bank of London and Mexico
and the other the French bank or Banco
National. Diplomats say that the decree,
if carried out. would simply abolish the
Engh.sh bank and the French bank.
It is staterl that the French and English
governments protested vigoroue sly against
Carranza's decree and that when no sat
isfaction could be had H. K. Hohler, the
British charge in Mexico City. started for
W'ashington to lay the matter before the
State Department and the British En
bassy.
ALLEGED INSULTER SHOT.
Newspaperwoman Wounds Politi
clan in Montana. 1
Thompson Falls, Montana. Sept. 29.-A.
4. Thomas. Republican chairman of
Sanders County, was shot and seriously
wounded early today by Miss Edith Col
by, a newspaper writer, who says that
Thomas insulted her and then refused to
apologize.
Miss Colby charges that, in addition to
tellIng her he never gave her any news
because he would not help "any person
who had lied about him and his friends
as she had done," Thomas also made a
remark reflecting on her personal reputa
tion.
LAST "WILD MAN" DEAD.
Indian Studied by San Francisco
Scientists Left $1 Estate.
San Francisco, Sept. 29.-shi, last In
dian of his tribe, who was found several
[years ago in one of the remote districts
of California and who for several )ears
lived at the affiliated colleges in San
Francisco, where he was a subject of
ethnological study by members of the
faculty, left an estate of a net value
of $171. collected by the "last wild man"
through the sale of picture postcards of
himself.
TOASTED GRASSHOPPERS.
Sandusky School's Assistant Curator
Finds Sandwiches Good.
Sandusky. Ohio. Sept. 29.-Chester Bliss,
assistant curator of the Sandusky High
?chool Museum, had a grasshopper sand
wich for luncheon. He caught the hop
pers, removed their heads and wings,
toasted them over a slow fire, after put
ting salt and pepper on them, and placed
them between two thin slices of bread.
"The grasshoppers turned red like lob
sters." he said. "They had a nutty fla
vor, and I enjoyed them very much."
Bliss said some- day grasshoppers would
he a choice morsel in leading hotels and
restaurants.
MONEY TO LOAN-45'0 TO) i500.0o ti
D). C. teal estate. Several trust fund,
4', to 6 per c,.r.'. All transactios eon
ducted with economica rcnsdention for
boerrowert wM. H. SAUNDERS & CO.,
Southern Building. 87 15th st. nw.
The above littlc. ad which appears
on page 13 of today's Herala is
just or.e of Ecores of oppartunitie
in the classifleu columns on the
same page. There are lobs and
people wanting jobs; there are
rooms to rent and people to rent
your rooms. There are apartments
for rent, houses for sle. autos for
exchango, money to loan-in fact
there isn't a "want" that can't be
filled cilner by consulting The
Herald classified columns ur by in
sartiner a want ar1 in them
RECORD HIS PEA
Hughes Asks to Be Judged on
Career as Governor.
By WILLIAM HOITEX.
(laternatonal News Servies.)
Hornell, N. Y., Sept. 29.-Charles E.
Hughes told the crowds which gathered
today to greet him that he wished his fit
ness as President to be judged by his
record as governor of New York.
Addressing tonight a meetin; at thei
Shattuck Theater, he laid down this prin
ciple by which he will be guided if elect
ed next November.
"What I did in connection with my
duty as governor involved a principle
which I should continue to apply if I
were invested with executive responsibil
ities as President. That is, I examined
the proposals that were made as thor
oughly as I knew how, and what I
thought was right I favored. When I
believed the measure was wrong, I did
not attempt to gain votes by indorsing
it.''
Earlier in the day at Elmira he had
proclaimed himself unchanged In the
years which had elapsed since he occu
pied the executive mansion at Albany.
Likewise, he had made a flat declara
tion at the same meeting in favor of an
eight-hour day for labor, though at to
night's meeting he somewhat' qualified
that commitment. Tonight, answering
attacks upon his labor record, he read
the achievements of his gubernatorial ad
ministration in the way of labor legisla
tion.
The defense of his labor record made
by Hughes tonight came again in con
nection with his attack on the Adamson
bill.
"I want to see an effcient United
States," he said. "I want to see a dis
appearance of class antagonism. I want
to see a genuine co-operation which will
bring this nation to the front rank. I
want to see an ability on the part of
labor and capital to work together in a
conscious feliowship. equalizing mutual
dependence and intent upon mutual jus
tice."
For the first time in the 2.%rn-mile jour
ney which will end tomorrow night at
Buffalo, rain interfered with the Hughes
meetings.
NEW SUBMARINE WAR
FEARED BY AMERICA
Attitude of Bethmann-Hollweg Causes
U. S. to Be Perturbed.
State Department offIcials viewed with
uneasiness yesterday the speech of Chan
cellor von Bethnann-Hollweg to the
Reichstag. They interpreted it as a dec
laration that Germany contemplated re
sumption of relentless submarine war
fare agains the allies, and against Great
Britain In particular.
It was pointed out that the chancellor.
afto- arraigning England a. ermany's
most egotistical, fiercest said sovst ob
stinate enemy," and declaring she had
broken one international law after an
other, he declared:
"A German statesman who would hesi
tate to use against this enemy every
i available instrument of hattle that would
shorten t;ris war -such a statesman
should be hanged."
It was remarked that the speech seem
ed to verify clippings sent to the State
D-epartmepnt soni time ago by Ambassa
dor Gerard in whieh Admiral von Tirpitz
'.was credited with exerting himself to
have the t'-boat campaign renewed.
At that time. the State Department un
dertook to ascertain if the old sea-fighter
spoke authoritatively.
It is likely Mr. Gerard will be able to
throw scme light on th!s.
At the State Department yesterday,
Secretary Lonsing :ndi-I that thc Ameri
can Ambassador had been "summoned"
here to discu' questions of submarine
policy. But It is clari understood that
he will be able to giv. valuable informs
tien on the rresent and futire pnitical
ielations of thi- country and Germany.
not only to the State Department bat to
0hadow Lawn. I- was declared at the
department yesterday that lie had n 't
transmitted any information indicating
an Intention by Germany not to abide bv
her pledges.
VON BUELOW INTRI6UINO
TO MAKE PEACE TERMS
French Wniter Accuses Prince of Seek
ing Chancellorship.
By GABRIEL IANOTAUX.
(Former Foreign Minister to France)
(Internatieaal News Service.)
Paris. Sept. .-The author cf all the
intrigues against the Germ chancellor,
Dr. von Bethmann-Holtev. i3 Ptince
von Buelow. who is seekling to become
chancellor in order to makc the best ps,
sibe peace for Germany at the ear:iest
moment. Bethmann-Hollweg is the, sole
remaining member of the Nationalist
clique, who has not been disgraced since
the war began. He covers the Kaiser.
Prince von Buelow's object in provok
ing his fall in to resume the traditional
policy of consigning the Kaiser to the
background. le is using the imperial
secretary of the treasury. Dr. Helfferich,
as his puppet, but is pullinE the strings
;himself. Von Buelow is a:so fooling the
pan-German. inducing them to help him
to return to power by promises of a
sterner war which he has no intention
to fulfil.
Once again chancellor, he will quickly
drop the firebrands and begin peace
maneuvers.
HEB WAS BRAVE BUTT PRUDENT.
Negro Faced Pistoi hnt Retaliated
with Garbage Can.
Baltimore. Sept. "9.-"I'se powerful
brave, Yoh Honah. hut jes' a bit prudent
wid it. When she poked a gun under
mnah nose I bounced a garbage can on
her bead and beat it."
Arthur Johnson (colored), offered the
foregoing defense when arraigned before
Justice Dawkins in the Ncrthwestern
Police Court this morning, charged witht
assaulting Georgianna Howland.
NURSE ENDS H. LIFE.
Miss Eleapor Malone. in Cambiridate
Hospital, Shoots Iceracif.
Cambridge. Md., sept. D-Mlc Elieanr~s
Mialilne, in traininir: . a tjs.rse. t ti.e Du
Pont Maternity Hosrital, committed sui
cide last night by shooting. She was
found dead in bed.
Her mother and several sisters survive.
THREE SHIPS TORPEDOED
BY GERMAN U-BOATS
(BY the Instestesami News UervMIe.)
London. Sept. 2.-A dispatch to Loyds
this morning reported the sinking of the
British ship Second by a Germn subma
rine. The Second was the eighth victim
of submarines within twenty-four hours.
The Swedish steamer Viola has been
sunk, presumably by a submarine. Her
crew was saved.
Madrid. Sept. 29.-The British steamship
Roddam. 32118 tons, from Newcastle, has
been sunk in the Mediterranean. evidently
by a German submarine. Eleven mem
bers of the crew were landed today on
the Spanish coast.
THREATENS TO SCALP
INDIAN IN ARGUMENT
speisl to The Washingtn HeaMd
Cedar Rapids. Iowa. Sept. ::.-At
the second day's session of the Society
of American Indiar here an Apache
challenged an Arapahoe to combat dur
Ing a clash over a resolution propos
Ing the abolition of th- Federal In
dian Bureau
Dr. Charles L. Montasuma. an
Apache. in the course of a speech at
tacking the Indian bureau, directed his
remarks to Dr. Sherman Coolidge, of
Colorado. an Arapahoe Indian, preri
dent of the so-ety and formerly mem
her of the Federal Bureau.
"I am an Apache," he shouted. 'and
you are an Arapahue I can lik you
My tribe has licked your tribe before"
"I'm from Missourt." shouted Dr
Coolidge, and the laughter that fol
lowed broke the tension.
"SCHOOL FOR SAILORS"
APPEARS TO BE DOOMED
Secretary Josephus Daniels' "school
for sailors" on board the battlesh:ps
appears about to die an untimsrn
death. Naval officers say the rext
thing expected is an order either abo!
ishing the school or modifying the
obligation of the bluejacket to attend
classes
Already the system is beginring to
sag a, the corners Sailors are now
excused from school for three or four
weeks previous to target practir
Ofrecers say that rince the novelty
has worn off, the saiorrren are kik
ing hard against the Daniels' bobby.
realizing now that the school is an
obligation instead of an invitation.
ACCUSED BY HIS BRIDE
HANGS SELF IN CELL
4By the lnternatiesal News Service.)
New York. Sept. 29 -Facing a charge of
attempting to murder his bride of two
weeks by pushing her out of a six-story
window on an apartment building. Isa
dore Millrad hanged himself today in hli
cell in the Bronx County jail. He used
a strip of bedding, attached It to the
bars at the top of the cell.
Mrs. Lena MIllra, the sei4 's uli
is rapidly recovering from -
her 4ix tot-ne.
lit :-_7!_c 71url, of the
atartmen building broke her fall. en
the IF suffering -nly from b-u1ses. and
ahr-sion.
RUSSIAN FLIERS RAID
BEHIND TEUTON LINES
(By the International News %erirce.)
Petrograd. Se t . --A:r a.I,.:, ,
the easicrn front B incieasing iuen.;It
aviators have carrie. out a big r,!,] be
hind the German hnes Two R..in
machinee were lot itr rp combat Th
information IF conto:n I !n the f, Int
omfcial report issied by the wer r! -- I
day
"In the region of Borun:.krsvo. sout h
we-t of Srnoroojne. our aero2Iane o bo.
bardrd the rear --f the.
causing explosions andi re' V.- hore1
a narr-w guae ret-- railway and a
mtotor car trarnr7it. 1 .l!rz 'hp raid
four German anrrerar- 4owre t-) of
e-rs neer Gika'r woo0
HER LOVE COST $1,400
RICH WIDOW CHARGES
qBy the Iaternational News sersice.)
"-e-Inc Mrs. Margaret Ptdst a a'
pretenee of i.i r i t. l,7H ,-s
'. con of a r~!
is bng le ,r. "e
face chiare o.
ceny preferred bv Mrs. e
Mrs. Rlidte p:v.'"11,. u ,
she lea-ve1 that H.. Z:r -
married Miss A:xira It McKcer. 21. of
Friendvil,-, Md
Mrs. Hidge .ay, she n. B-v
through her hust.. .-b who (: abu _
morths ago. Thlir acquamti'anceh i
rpened int :ove. an I Fh gave him ;.4 -
after he prom ised to in- hi r
FASHIONABLE HOTEL
SCENE OF SHOOTING
4By the International News Service.)
'Iia.Sp"'. - 1 I-.,
ously injured. threc of th ;rth'!
fatallv. 1: a shoein effr h w tar
ed between a t-- ani a
the throng-ed corrii- : of I
Conzrecs Hotel tiday. The bat yt-r
ed to the r'of of the hotel whe I'
men joined In Dozens cf hots w " .
Guests an-I ciih rs in 1he hotel, ci.
ing man, women, flid 1- shelter :, ihe
two emploves .: th- hotri. fol- ing a
quarre<l 0.vr a ir. begant 'ghting
CAUGHT AFTER CHASE
IN THREE CONTINENTS
tSincal to The Wasiiea Herald.
New Yor 5- It - Jamies H. MlcNich
cia. Sa C Wa '- e. who escape
from er *n In 2 ind'. Ohio, on March
i. s. rese h're todsy. aftera
cthase ':ch led the police ou.r three con
tinents. Ho t' kown to the police as one
of the clev erest mining promioters and is
said to Iave swindled victims out of more
than $W .
McNicholas 'was traced through England
rnd France and lator w as seen In Sout:
America.
While in ti count ry oiince his retyrn
-omt South America. McNcho'as formned
ihe Adzometer i'omniny int BaI:mmre. Oap
ita'ized at $. 0 Cci. and started supplng
rtdding rmi.chira for the Italian govern
mtent. lHe said Ihe was trylnz to earn at
honest living.
Pioneer Attorney Dead
nia.ttaoga, Tc'is Sept. 2 -harles
D). Mci~iuft' y. pireer ittorctlv and
htistorian of Chattanooga, died here is~ti
t==+ntaktH= m.. nenIn isa.
BRITISH CLOSE
IN ON BAPAUME
Advances Made Over Batd&.
field Turned Into Morass.
(By the Internatleail News UOwr s.
London. Sept. 29.-Despite wet weathe'
which hampered artillery observat1irm
and conv erted the battlefeld into a m
rass. the British, strUting from two 4 -
rections today, closed in still further
Bapaume.
The two prongs of their advance we
from the Courcelette sector and fro
Thlepval. la the former region th
have adcanced to within 500 yards of I
'arr. while north and east of Thiepe
more sectons of the strong Stuff r
doaht were carried In this area t
German defense stiffened and by a vi
lent counter-attack the Teutons won be
a trench which the British carried ear
in the day. They wore unable to hold
however, and the English troops a
again in possession.
Another advance of fi yards was ma
to the eastward of IAs Boeufs. in co
rtir w~ith a Prench gan on the sai
no. The French preased ahead betwe
Morval and FregTlou'. here their bI
ha.' been straightened out by the smaf
inc sf the Combles salient.
There has been a considerable lesse
in. of the artillery fire r wing to the d
f-u:tv of ob'servation in the ml,
eaher.
Bapaume iF one of the three objects t
allies -t ott to reach when they began.
the~r big push on July 7. the other two
-'tg ('ombles end Peronnes
With the -apture of Combles the alles
cut the Oermarn main line of communl.
'at,,n between Bapaume and Peronne
and opened the way for taking those two
towns
With the French working toward the
Bethume road. a strategic highway which
the Ger-tan hold southeast of Bapaume,
the Britl-b have set out to clear the
ridge r'retching northeast of Thier'val
and in the direction of Fau-ourt-Ab
baye. wher' the Germans hsve er-ed
p werful ortficatie
iROUP PICTURES START
COLONEL ON WARPATH
Demand' Recall of Hugbe' Taf T.
R. Buttons.
flBy the IsterustlOaal News aeralce.,
New Tcrk Sept. 3--Co. lmo. ee
made vehement wr;tten protest t, (-ha
man Wilcox. o& the REpublican Na .:
Committee, today against:
1. The circulation of his portrait slir4
with those of Charles E. HUcbe and Y- I!
ilIam 14.-Taft on a campa.gn "r 9
:. Advertising the Tnior l rge 0
r-utption to Mr Hughes next Tes-ia a
cne ar-arnge. for a r-on, et.on a
T' "vel! anl Tir
aver- 1
'o x to st"rIrg for Ba"::e r-e 1 :Meh.
p 71,. tI 'e to- F . . .
WILL OPEN B!DS FOR
AMERICAN WARSHIPS
Oc tober 253 Set fr- 1 e, - e,
'ate
Twen , 'pven\
By the nte"rnfoatl e C erst ee b
p. t e p-' t.i o
e Ta : 'eraS .i.- -
" opund- 1 n
FWIL SNAKES IN EGGS.
First KIlla Thre*e Big on"a. Then
OcEt Gr e te Poa . et 9.G og
erce th lnraeFirs e kiew
reitho 'e sax eet on whc. d
Z-i'trt''e.Cit.
The:1e Zw"e wetr -n ndtre
uplatne'e' eggr whc tfrth
FPUNDYAES O FATAL
Dteek Oer- Eiarteby Eggs.e e
ew YoienlSept a -A beot -Goger
thegrha hearfre aa-e comrexerJun
1r cs wih t'bes tst ne ofithe detho
resteray ope Mixfon ludon, whicedi1
yuers tteeng of Mr a n Mr Theodorl
Gund'ersn ofw it. eintnavne
nTh ber ha benggl wac atmmera bet
teorrhafer of' ethe heat. hn)a pn
Itwlck Oer atob Phimadelphe
'et--dar ; <tt $2'!:Wungon, aged01.
yrsdi. I:r, ofmore and O hodo:e
a.nm..sOc. of.~ Returingto an a.
Adokl.
