ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
Sec Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
fiidimottfr Citttes-fHsiiafch
i
BRING IN YOUR WANY v
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. ih.
Early Delivery of Sunday Want Ads In
sures Correct Classification
vIi-iTiKH ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
!EFERS TO BRITAIN
AS BITTEREST OF
Chancellor Dec'
Proper Means*
?tlust Be
Every
fare
IAN WHO WOULD RETRAIN
DESERVES TO BE HANGED
ron Bethmann-Hollweg Reviews
at Length Military Situation
Confronting Nation.
|>iscrssi:s kxtuy of hoi .mama
jitst of Conquest ami Annihilation
Declared to He Aims of Powers
nt War With Teutons.
BERLIN, H<p? ? tnl>-r 'J-. Thursday
[via Sayvillc. Svptemlx-r In an ex
tended on thi* occasion cf th'
lpcnlng ot tho Reichstag here to-day,
phancellor von Bethmann-lidllweg i^
rlewod the military situation confroni
il; Germany. and -ef<r:<d to Ctiuiand
"our mo.-t ?- tzn\ i; t leal, our most I>;t ?
lor and our most tenacious ?my, ac
cording to tho somlotllelal report of
Ihr- Ov.-r.v .1 ,V.-v * I . till;- .tit* t - !
loon.
"A i let man ? win, v..hi!-! r?- j
Iraitt fl'Ol Ii. ; .Il!ist till ? ? 11 * tit V !
[very proper1 means of warfare which ]
apt. 11> s hot t <? ti : I ? war >1 ? < i v. t <> '
r hanged," is *.!,<? f.r thtt statements I
|ttrlhwte'l t.. in. * ?' .?? . ii*,t
The Chancellor besait by reviewing j
It length t ? < * ? i ?. i. f Koutna t ;.i Into
lite war, and - i s-1 that the Russian
JfTenslvf- this spring had made Premier
lira tin no t. -1 i ?* v* 1,.- w t;... hrcaklm;
I own of t i, ? j
"Accordingly,?? tho speaker said, "he
|ecided to obtain a share when tho rob- I
r^ry '<( th*. . . <1
'Since ili* beginning <?( th<- world war ;
lion mania has followed a t*'*!i* y of!
JI racy, dop< ndlng upon the g? neral wa ?
lltuatlon. Houmnnla's military capi- '
lulatioti will : ? ? .t , ..11 ;i j |,,.r
Volltical . ipltulatlou her entente
Irlenda, wl proved
1? havo ! ? vrong Thej i tint have
loped earnestly that Ro^mnnia'svpiu -
III"! ji.t t ion ? ?. ,i ? w* 111*i < a ti ? t ' ?
lefectlon *.f it.,I ? and T irkey. but !
I tirk* . a: . I.-. . , . ,t..
Is Rouinnnia nnd Italy. Firm and In- i
rlol.'i hie 11 ? faithful,..
JUic'. and ' he . )..??. *? ...... _ i,,. v
lorif-s In Pol : ij.-i i
pi \ \<di.i.oh iii:\ ii s
MII.IT\m Vfll \THl\
Or. von Hothtiiann-llolVweK then re
Hewed the nilititrv situation. ".Since
I!'? beB,ni ' ^ ' ! ' !" ? lid, "K?itr
I a!i,! Fr? ' h mat ks on ti,.- son m<
lave raged almo-t ? , jnt, rrum ,on
I he common offensive *.f the entente
Inemiea wanted ... hreak through the
JrorU or ?>?? h.'?ted Germans, f,, ..
I ranco an*l I:*!-mm and < atry the war
Jcross tho I::,..-., into Germany.
"But what hat happened? The French
nd English have gained advantages
Lnd have pushed back our first lines
I Miomet< rs w. deplore the heavy
losses in men and material. This how
Ivor, Is unavo lal |? the face of ,n
kffenalve planned o, HU h n ,)ron||
Irale. Km what <? ir enemies hoped
lnd attempted did not succeed. Our
Inont was t:*.t broken nor rolled up,
hut stands lirm and unshaken. Heavy
lnd violent i.- th*- lichtinn th* ie th.
Jomme, and the ? :i? 1 i> riot \ .? r |n view
?urther sacrillc,., a,.- ne.-.-v-,ly. rh^
Ir that trench and this or that villaire
hay be lost. Hut ? I ... , |M]8h
|nroupli our ln,(s
"On the ensterii front, the grwai Uus
llan attempt hreak through was
jtopped by to. roops of Archduke
Lharles nnd General von Unslngen i
Ivttacks west of i.llIsk> on ?lft x.jra
luvka River, nnd in the Carpathians
I 'o?lowed. hut they also broke
I own.
"There also the fighting will
I'nue, There also it is absolutely ter- '
lainI that the line will he maintained
|> the heroism of our armifs.
In the Halkan.s the -nlente powers
Idanncd to split outvalliance, then in
terrupt communication between Ger
many and the near Kast. t*> crush Hal
l-aria, Turkey ami Austria-Mungarv
ine after the other, and then throw all
^helr forces against isolated (Jei' -my."
ySKS WHAT IS (iAIMOl)
HV (.i:i(MA\ KXK.MIIJS
The chancellor at this point asked
.hat hacl been gained by the army of
Leneral Snrrnil (the French conitnand
|r at Salontkl) and by Roumanian
rtreason," and answered the question
|s follows:
"Tho situation of our faithful, bravo
Llllea Is unshaken. A ustria-ilunga i y
Itanda together with us on the eastern
lania. The Turks are fighting in <7a
licla. German, Hulg,irian and Tin \
Iroops have defeated the Roumanians
Ii Dobrudja. Rulgarian, German and
I urkish ti oops have fought their way
Macedonia.
_ sum up: On tho ?Sonuni front
?hero havo been isolated, hostile suc
I?ssc3, which, however, do not change
Ihe geneial situation. Otherwise, a
Iiii-ocssful defense has been agalnRt till
lostllo attacks, and thus tho enemv
Ittenrpts havo been thwarted. In the
ialkans the hostile plan failed. Thus
Tie enormous war goes on.
"The aims proclaimed by our enemies
Ire becoming Increasingly clear, and
Idmit of no misunderstanding. Thf#
Ire: lust of conquest and anitlhila
Ion. It is jiroposetl lo give Conwtan
Inoplo to Russia, Aisace-LorrMne to
France, the TrentIno and Trlestn to
taly and Transylvania to Roumanla.'
I Dr. von Rethmann-IIollweg, dlscr#*
lig the alms of Great Britain, said
l\Vhat Great Britain wants to make o
Jermany Is shown hy tho British with
lit any possibility of doubt. They'want
destroy our national life. The Ger
(Continuod on FlftTi Page.)
Interned Cruisers
Start Under Convoy
Squadron of Twelve Battleships
Escorts German Boats to
Philadelphia.
OLD POINT ("OMKOltT, V.V. Septem- I
ber 2'J.?Convoyed by twelve United
.Slates battleships, including the Dread- j
noughts Wyoming, flagship of th?? At
lantic Fleet; Texas, New York and Ai
kansus, tho German auxiliary cruisers I
Prlnz Eitel Friedrich and Kronprinz \
Wllhelm. which nought haven in these j
neutral waters early last year an<l
were interned. to-night were well on j
their way up the Atlantic Coast for th?- I
Philadelphia Navy.Yard, where they '
: will he laid up. The Wilhelm is in tow
of live navy tugs, while the Kltel is
proceeding tinder her own steam.
The two cruisers left ihe Norfolk
Navy-Yard early to-day, and were met
at t In- Virginia ('apes about noon by
! the battleship fleet. The vessels im
mediately headed up the coast, pro. j
??ceding outside the three-mile limit. !
They are dne :i Philadelphia to-mor- j
row The iman cruisers were taken |
from the Norfolk Navy-Yard, wher?
they have been moored since being in- j
terned by the Federal government. in i
' ord? i to make room for American bat i
I 11 iiI. whieh are to repair at that !
I yard preparatory to the winter fleet j
maneuvers at (Juantanamo May, Cuba. i
JAMES H. SOUTHGATE DEAD
Wiix ( !inlrman of Trinity (ollcue Truw
Iri'h iiinl Prominent III >lrHiiiill>l '
Cliurcli Circle*.
I >1 'It! IA M. N. (V. September j
Jaiin." II. S->u t lisra te, chairman of the)
| board r>f trustees of Trinity College. j
Prohibition vice-presidential candidate ;
.ii Is'."'., and prominent in Method'.--;
.-liurcli and missionary dribs, ?11.-? I
suddenly at hi:- country home in
i arge County, according to a telegram;
re? elveil by relatives
Mr Southgnte was born in Norfolk.
Va.. in lsr.r*. and moved t>> North Car.-- |
| Una two years later. He was educated ;
at private academies and the l"ni\'-r- !
isity of North t'arolina and afterwatd
ejir<? ied the insurance and banking
business with his father, becoming a j
member of the linn of j. Southgate
Son. Ho was widely known on account I
j of his interest in education, religious!
and fraternal matters He had b.-.-n J
1 h.iirman '<f 1?? board of trustees .f
Trinity I'olleir. for twenty jeass
ASK EMBARGO ON FLOUR
Itul ( lull Women <?r Chicago Defend
( Ity's linker!* (or UiiIsIiik
Price uf llrenil.
t "H t( "A( >'?. September 'J'j. Pesolu
ti ?) asking an etnbatgo on wheat and
Hour were adopted to-day at a meet
it;:: of club women, most of whom de- !
frfnded bakers here for raising th<
pi ice r.f bread The increase, the\ de- (
clared, was justified by war exports,
crop shortage and added inanufncttir* ,
' ing expenses due to improved sanitary
conditions.
At the same time officials of th" of
fice of 1'nit-d States District Attornev
J ("line, who arc imjuirln's whether there,
was any illegal agreement antonir the
bakers to raise prices, called attention I
I to the fact that bread from American [
flour is selling cheaper in London. I
Trieste, Lyons. Havre and other cities |
than in the I'liited States.
[ OVERTON AT MONTGOMERY
Will lie Token to II unts\llle in No
\riiilirr for Trial on ( linrne of
Ivlllini; .Indue Lmvler.
MONTfJOMlCrtY, ALA.. September j
?1\ I>. Overton, former clerk of the
Madison County C'rcuit Coart, and now
charged with the murder of I'robate ?
Judge Lawler. nt Htintsville, last Juik-.
was brought here from Nashville to
day. having been captured by Sheriff^
I 'ticket t in Smlthville. Tenn., last
Tuesday. He will -ne neld here until ?
November, when he will be taken to j
Huntsville for trial.
There is a small wound on top of |
the prisoner's head which the sheriff]
says was caused 1 y a bullet, tired when
Overton attempted to escape shortly j
after bis arrest. Overton declined to
make a statement to-day.
MEAT ANIMAL PRICES HIGHER
liHTMifi' of -I.I Per Cent From Vuuiixt
1.1 to September 1.1, Compared W'ltli
Sl.\-1 enr AvcriiRe of CM) Per Cent.
WASHINGTON. September 29.?
Prices of meat animals, cattle, hogs,
sheep and chickens increased 4.1 per
cent from August 15 to September 15.
compared with an average increase of
ft.9 per cent in the same period in the j
past-six years.
The price of hogs on September 15
averaged $9.22 per 100 pounds, an in
crease of 61 cents from the previous
month, $1.23 over a year ago, and $1.94
over the average September 15 price
of the last six years.
Beef cattle average $0.55 per 100
pounds, an increase of 4 cents from the
previous month, -19 cents over a year
ago.
MRS. HUERTA IN SAN ANTONIO
Will (iii to Ml PiiNti to Place WronHi
on IIusbnndV. Crave on Ills
Snlnt Day.
SAN ANTONIO, T15X.. September 29.
?Mrs. Kmila Huertn, widow of the
former President of Mexico, expects/to
leave here In a day or two for K1 Paso,
where, on her husband's saint day. she
will place a wreath on his grave. M?\s.
Huerta came hero a few'days ago fro:.:
Havana, Cuba, and will return to Ha
vana shortly.
Two widows of former Presidents of
Mexico were in San Antonio to-day?
.Mrs. Francisco Madero, wife of the
man whose revolution resulted In the
overthrow of Diaz, having arrived
'tore from Mexico City.
LAST C. &. O. SUNDAY Ob'TINO
TOr MORROW.
$1.50 round trip to Norfolk and seaside.
Three trains. 8:15 A. M., 8:30 A. fii. and
12:00 Noon.?Adv.
WILL ADVERTISE
FOR WORSHIPERS
Twenty-Five Churches and Rich
mond Advertisers' Club Com
bine^ Their Efforts.
RHOADS HEADS COMMITTEE
Nonsectarian Campaign to Be
Directed to Nonchurch
Going Public.
Plans for a <ity-wi<le, noudenomina
tioiial ?? !ni??? li ailvertisinu campaign
that is to extend ovor a period of eight
months, or lonnci, wore outlined and
th>- nrt si. |is taken last niirht at a
mass-meeting in the auditorium of th?
?John M 1 rslia 11 1111{li Scliool, li?? If 1 unilor
the auspices t.f tiio Richmond Advcrtis
' l?b. The meeting resulted in 111?>
appoi nt men t .?f a committee of seven
members, which is; to be enlarged to
twenty-five. t?, i'i:a\iss means lor car
rying "in the . :inipa;^n.
Mils special ? -onyn i t tee, of which W
S. Rhoa<!s u- made t<-mt>orary chair
in.i;i, v. ill hold a meeting Tuesday at
1 o'clock in th? Business Men's Club,
? hen t>i?- a?lditional members of th?* j
'?ormi:ittwill probably be appointed |
and planfc for fnrt lu-ritm the campaign '
" ill be <li ?Missed. Members of this '
? ";!!H,itteo Will con 'ir with ofllcers of i
tli- ir vari?'H:i ehtiri'lie^ to determine the .
advisability of such an undertaking. I
ami w111 probably cull a general mass- I
ln'vt ini; in tin- next, f r u ila\s.
i \\ i : vi \ -l i \ !*. on in no
The meeting last nitilit, which had '
been railed at the Instanee of the Rich- '
inond Advertis-is' Club, was well at
tended. with thirty.thtee church rep- i
resentatives answering the roll call. I
tiiis number there wre twenty-tivo
''11n l i*hi.* i.*t 11, * ? 11 v rcpM'Sc ii t edt a ?
follow s:
'1 rove Avenue Bapti-t. First Baptist.
Westminster Presbyterian. Barton!
Heights Baptist, Grace Street Baptist,
Woodland Heights Methodist, human
uel Baptist, liecatur Street Methodist.
Bife and Advent Christian. Mizpah
I *r? shy t f r i.'i ii. fiakwf.oil Methodist. Clay
Street Methodist. Bo-eneath Presbyte
rian. Fulton Baptist. Hanover Avenue
< "hris'.ia", First I'ri; rian, Centenary
Meth .dirt, IIll Alia bah Temple. All
>ai tits i.pis 'opal, St. A: drew's ICpisco
1' '? ^ ? n'l Heigh*.- Baptist, 'Irace
Met botlist. I't.ion Stat; o n Methodist.
I'ms: Kn*_*lish l.titheran and the Sev
* i'Ii St r ? ? t < 'h ris t ia n.
: '1 In- movement is to be conducted cn
t irel v by laynf:;. and rhe pastors f
the varioii* chtl'chcs w.ill mt be in
vitf'd to b? ? ? ? i?ino member* of the com
mittee The oriiriii.il committee, which
is to be enlarged, is composed of W
S Khoads. t-tv.porary chairman; 1!. W.
Wilson. I".. B Bayfield, Ceorge \ Mort
land. secretary; .t. p Jones. Milton K.
< *.?ne and I >r .1 Shelton llorslcy.
M \ci..\i hi. \\ TIU.l.s di'
vvniti.il i c
President P. B. IC inn, of the Adver
tiser.-' CI ii b, called the meeting to or
der. explaining that the Associated Ad
vertisers' Club of the World. .iu<t priori
to the annual convention at Philadel
phia last summer, had requested "the
Richmond club to send two members I
t i the convention for the purpose of
attending the meetings of the church
publicity department of the conven
tion. He explained that Rev. H !> c
Madachlan, D. D.. pastor of the Sev
enth Street Christian Church, had at
tended the meeting and introduced the
principal speaker.
Pr. Madachlan said that he had at
tended every meeting of the church
publicity department of the convention,
which held three sessions daily, with
more than "."0 prominent ministers
from every section of the country in
attendance. He thought a great deal
of good would come of a campaign to
attract nongoing- church people in
Richmond, and told of the experience
of ministers in other cities where they
had increased their attendances from
.to to 7'ift per cent in the course of a
single twelve months.
>it st <;i:t tiik pkoim.i:
to < OMK to cut It('II
"Some ministers think it is unethi
cal.' l>r. M::<? laehlan said, "for churches
to advertise., but we must go about it
in a sane way, and get the people in
the churches. In my Vwn church we
have tried advertising in a crude way.
and it has been successful when we
had a special sermon for that night.
What we must get. though, is a large
attendance every night. We must sret
the nonehureh-going people interested
In our work, and must show theni the
advantages in going to church. We
can't get them in the church unless w
go after them in the right maimer
"I would have what business men i
would term a 'sales force,' and it would
V>e their duty to advertise the chili, h.
much the same way that a salesman
sells his goods. At every meeting' I
should like to have this sales force
in the vestibule of the church, and
there welcome those coming into the!
church, much in the same way that a i
business man would invite a customer'
into his establishment."
Ceorge A. Mori land, of the Adver- ;
Users' Club, explained the plan that j
had been dismissed. He said that it
was proposed to raise a fund of $ IB, 000.
which was to be spent in advertising
in all mediums, such as the news
papers, booklets, bill boards and post
cards. '>nec they had a prospective
"customer," as it were, they would fol
low up with a post ciird and literature,
and booklets would lie distributed by
the churches.
OM,Y 10 IMOU CI'.XT ATTK.VI)
KKIIVIG'ISS It !?:<?; I" I..A ItIiY
He thought when it was given con
sideration there would ?bo no trouble
in raising a fund for (Wis work, hav
Wig 1 riO.OOo people to draw from. Of
this number, he said, not more than
40 per cent attend the churches regu
larly. Forty per cent do not attend
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
BUOY[PICKEDUP j
I^ounrl at Water's Edge on Ocean
Side of Cape Elizabeth by
Ten-Year-jPld Boy.
NEW AND STAINED WITH OIL
German Submarine of That Name
Expected for Past Week or
More at Some U. S. Port.
1 ''J.I i.AN'I), M September 2!'.? j
A life preserver marked "Bremen." i
? lie name ()f n,,. German submarine i
fr? ? iir!:?<? r which has been generally ex
peeled to arrive at some Atlantic Coast
1""' for Hie past week or more, was
;.i< ke.i it), ?? fi the ocean side of Cape
Kli/.aheth to-riay. The name "Bremen"
was stenciled jn black letters two
it.ches liitr? i <>n lioth sides of the buoy.
' ?n on<- side <>f the canvas covering
was printed a small crown.
Over t!.is won- the words "shutz- 1
tnarke." moaning patented, or trade-j
marl: Beneath were the. words j
l-.pping -1 (oven. Willi elmsha vfen." This |
indicated, appar> ntlv, the name of the
maker.
The preserver seemed to be new and I
apparently had ti?>t been in the water .i !
gt-al length of time. It was sfciined
with oil. ,\n officer of the f'nasi Guard (
''utter Scrvh e. who < xamined the buoy i
s.i id that :? the preserver had been '
thrown overboard by some one who
thought to play a practical joke, he had
?'.oiio a very u<n><| Job.
The pr? se: v. r was well made, and |
the letterinir ami the ink were of the ?
best quality.
The buoy was picked up at a small
place kin wti a- Maiden Cove by a
ten-year-old lad. F-rederick I,, Lake
tnan, of Westbrook. A number of
other persons were near-by at the time,
and saw the hoy pick tip the object
from the beach near the water's edge.
BOAT MtHITIOD OKI-* SllOltlO
mav in-: siiniAiti.VK iiimomiov
WKSTICItliV, It. I.. September i'9.?A
fisherman at Pleasant View, near Watch
Hill, overlooking Lone Island Sound,
reported to-night that he had seen with
his marine classes a large submarine
proceeding in the direction of N'-w
T.ondon, where the Oerman submarine
Bremen has been expected for more
than a week. She was then twenty
live miles east of Xew London, and
showed oil her mast a bright white
light above a green light.
Tlie lights, according to the observer,
wer<- the ones he had been told by
Captain Robinson, of the mic Westerly,
would he carried by the <*5erman sub
marine which tlie tutr some days ago
had been ordered to look for.
The submarine was unaccompanied,
and displayed no flair. The observer,
who professed to be familiar with the
appearance of American submarines J
which have their base at Xew London,'
said that she was of a different type [
from any he had seen The boat was |
about two miles off shore, and was
going at a moderate rate of speed.]
The sea was very choppy.
NO K NO \V l.l'.IX > 10 OK 10.1 It I. V
VPPHOACH OK SIBMAHI.VIO
Xi:w LOXDOX. September 29.?Xo
submarine had been sighted in the
waters adjacent to Xew London at a
late hour to-night.^ Officials of the
Kastern Korwardinsr Company and the
T A. S<-ott Wrecking Company, agents
in this country for the German line of
undersea merchantmen, claimed they
had no knowledge of the early approach j
of a Herman submarine.
I' N I) 1ST! It II101) IIV KIMIINC.
OK I.IKIO PHI0KK.lt VIOII
XK W LOXDOX. September 'JO.?Of
ficials of the Kastern Forwarding Com
pany, American agents for the Ger
man ?ine of submarine merchantmen
were undisturbed to-night ovtr the re
port that a life preserver marked "Bre
men" had been picked up off the Maine
'?oast. Whon asked .if the preserver
might hare belonged to the loner e.\
p< cted submarine the officials said it
was very improbable.
VON WANDEL RESIGNS
? j
fieriiiaii Deputy Minister f/>r NVnr Nom
inated for General of Infantry
by lOnipcror.
MlOltl.lX, September 29 (Via Lon
don).?General Von Wandel, Deputy
Minister for War, has resigned for rea
sons of health, says a German official
statement issued to-da.v. lOmperor
William has accepted Von Wandel's
resignation and has nominated him
general of infantry, he being attached
to the l-'irst Hanoverin Regiment. j
A New T.-D. Serial
Begins Next Sunday
??The Klower of Kallli," one of the
most" fascinating: stories of tlie year,
which Iiiim been novelized for The
Tlmex-Dlspatch l?y .lane Mel,can
from a scenario by fliarlm mid
frank I >n/.ey. begins next Sunday.
It lx handsomely Illustrated and will
Interest every reader. book for it
In the Magazine Section every Sun
day.
Other Npecinl features next Sun- j
dny are aw follows!
"Has Medical Science Discovered
(lie Germ of Cancer f" A dlst IiikuIsIi
ed I.ondon surgeon announces thnt
certain tree paras lies?tlie lowest
form of n nl in a I life?grow like can
cer cells, mid are the cause of our
worst disease.
"The Ileauty Who I.Ikes Only i;?ly
Men." I'ejtKy Kurton tells of the
flaws In masculine comeliness and
why she has no time to waste on
very Kood-looklnK men,
"The Xew Hcnd-Dresses," descrlh
ed.by I,aily Duff-Gordon, the famous
hurtle of I.ondon and foremost cre
ator of fashions In the world.
Richmond Times-Dispatch
PRESIDENT SPURNS
"DISLOYAL" VOTES
Expresses Indignation Over Tele
gram From Head of Ameri
can Truth Soceity.
NO "WEASEL WORDS" HERE
Attitude Toward Campaign and
Summary of Plans Authori
tatively Given Out.
BRANCH, N. J.. September 2!>.
? President Wilson made it plain to
niuht that he wants no "disloyal"
American to vote for him. He express
eel indignation over si telegram from
Jeremiah A. O'Learv, of New York. |
president of the American Truth So-|
ciety, accusing him of being pro-Brit
ish. and saying he had failed to ob
tain compliance with American riirh's
The President senK Mr. O'I.earv a
short telegram. which oflicials indi
cated Mr. Wilson had desired to put in
stronger language. His message fal
lows :
"Your toloeram received. I would !
feel d-npl.v mortiliod to have you. or
anybody like ymi, vote for me. Since
you have access to many disloyal j
Americans!, and I have not. I will ask
you t>> . (ihvcy this message to them.''
Mr. ?"?'I.eary1s telesrraiu given out by
tile President follows:
''Atrain we greet you with a popular'
disapproval of your pro-British poll- j
cie>. Last year froai the Twenty-third
New York Congressional District, and
now from your own State and from the j
voters of your own party. Senator
Martir.e won because the voters of New
Jersey do punt v.rnt any truckling to
the British empire; nor do they ap
prove of dictatorship over Congress.
"Your foreign policies, your failure
to s<<nre compliance with all Amer
ican rights. yOur leniency with the
: British empire, your approval of war
I loans and tiie ammunition traffic are j
issues in this campaign. Po you know
that William S. Bennet. a Republican :
Congressman, ran in the Democrat
primaries in the Twenty-third New
York < 'nil*ressimal District and pplled
"?*, per cent of the vote? British in- i
terest may control newspapers, but ii !
does not control votes. The people ?
may be readers, hut they are not fol
lowers of the newspapers.
"When, sir, will you respond to these '
evidences of popular disapproval of
your policies by action? The Martine '
election and Bennet vote prove you
l'.ave lost support amongst Democrats.
| . "Kvery vote for Marline was a vote
1 atrair.st you, as was every Democrat i -
! vote that went for Bennet in the Dem
ocratic primaries in the Twenty-lhir.l
Congressional District."
V I TllOlt IT.ITI \ !?" Si'MM A II V
OK f A lil'\li;\ I'l.AN
The President's attitude toward the]
campaign and toward some issues nf
; the country we?v made known here to
] day. an authoritative summary of his
campaign plan being as follows:
j. The President will adhere strictly to'
ills determination not to enter into !
personalities ..r into a political con- ?
Iroversy with <"harlcs K. Ungues. All !
| the speech. .-- he will make away from
Shadow Lawn will lie delivered before
nonpartisan org.inizalions, and will be
devoted entirely to a discussion of pub
lic finest ions I'.y inference they wi'.l
have a political effect.
His speeches here, however, will he
| more politiehl in tone. To-morrow he
1 will tell why lie thinks young men
show Id-vote the Democratic ticket.
At present. American voters are en
titled to know, he believes, what the
Republicans at present wonld Wo in
Mexico, what attitude fhey wonld take
about belligerent nations in Furope.
whether they would repeal the Fed
eral reserve act. the Tariff Commission
bill, the eight-hour law for railroad
employees, t*he child-labor law and
other legislative acts of the Demo
crats.
The President believes that satisfac
tory settlements of pending interna
tional questions can only bo embar
rassed by partisan discussions of them.
! and for this reason is not expected to
reply directly to the ?halienge issued
j hy Mr. Hughes that he deny or confirm
the charge that John I/i lid went to
Mexico with orders to oust ticiieral
lluerta. <?n this subject Mr. Wilson
takes the position that 1-luerta was
ousted; that the Democratic adminis
tration opposed him consistently, and
that, therefore, no reply is necessary.
The President received word to-day
that John M. Parker. Progressive can
didate for Vice-President, plans to
make speeches in opposition to Mr.
Hughes. At tlr*t administration of
ficials syid the President himself had
heard from Mr. Parker, but later R
was stated that this was a mistake,
and that a letter announcing his intent
lion had been sent by Mr. Parker to
Baiiibridge Colby, of New York
I'AIIKKIl T<> SI'HAK AliAlXST
( tMlin.VCY OK li !'(? IIKS
NK\Y OHUOAN'S, September 2f?.?John
M. Parker. Progressive vlce-piwsidentlal
nominee, said here to-*lay that ho had
written Biiinbridge Colby, a New York
Progressive lcad?jr, slating that lie was
willing to be used "in whatever way
appeared best." and that when lie went
to Nc\r York he would speak against
the candidacy of Charles K. Hughes.
"Of course, that would be in favor
of Mr. Wilson." said Mr. Parker, "but
I will speak as a Progressive, and n??*
as au allirmative supporter of the
I>emocratit: nominee."
Mr. Paiker reiterated that he pre
ferred Mr. Wilson over Mr. Hughes,
hut he said lie did not expect to speak
under Ihe auspices of the Democrats
campaign committee.
Dentil of I)r. A. Mngnnn.
.PARIS, September 20.? Dr. A. Mag
nan, one of Hie foremost alienist? in
Franco* Is dead. Dr. Mngnan was
chief of t,ho Paris Insane Bureau and
.director' of tho French School of Ad
vanced Research. ' \
*
Ferryboats Tied Up
During Rush Hours
Latest Strike in Ncie York. Has
No Connection With Trac
f lion Situation.
NKW YORK. September 20.?Ferry- '
boats of the New York Central Rail- j
road Company. plying between Mnnhat-i
tan ami NVw Jersey, were tie< 1 up dur
ing the rush hour.s late to-dav by a
strike of ir.it employees on the boats.
The latest labor difficulty In this city!
resulted from the men's demand fori
shorter hours and higher pay. The:
strike has no connection, it was said.!
with the traction situation.
Thousand*? of commuters left the city
for their homes in New Jersey over
roundabout routes.
Probability of a general sympathetic!
strike in aid of the fraction employees!
u ho quit their phitves on September t!
lessened to-night with the announce-;
ment that a local brewery workers'
union, whose 000 members struck ill
response to the. cull of the conference
ot labor lenders, had voted to return
to work. Ollb'ials <>f the union issued
a statement saying developments proved
tlmt organized labor "will not act in
concert in behalf of the carmen."
Organization of subway and elevated
road tuotorme?i will continue. according
to i statement made to-day by I.,, G. i
Grilling. third assistant grand chief of
the lilrotherhood of Locomotive I0 n ir i -
necrs. In charge of 'the work in this
clt y.
Sixteen persons were injured, one se
riously, in a rear-end collision between I
two surface cars in the I'.ronx this
afternoon. i?ne car was standing still j
when the other, said to have been op
erated by strike-breakers, crashed into'
it. The motorman of the rear car
jumped from Ills' pos^, it Is said, and
disappeared
M irked improvement in surface-car j
traffic was reported to-day. with sub
way and elevated lines operating on
normal schedules.
DEFENDS CHILD-LABOR LAW
Secretary \\ itson Drnlos I'nsvlliiilt j of
Ginrdon by Holding Product* hi
Storage for Thirty Days.
W ASII INGTON, September -0.?Sec
retary Wilson, a member of the hoard
<?f three Cabinet members designated to
draft resolutions putting the new child
labor law into effect, issued a stale
nirnt to-night replying to assertions
that the law easily could be evaded
by holding products in storage for
thirty days after their manufacture.
Cl'bose who attacked tiie law, he .?-iid.
failed to distinguish between produc
ing plants and warehouses, which
might be located under the same roof
and still be distinct under tho meaning
of the provision barring from inter
state commerce any product removed I
from a plant in which child labor had
been empb>ved within the thirty days
previous. He declared that any re
moval. ther fore, of a commodity from
the point where it was produced by
child labor, even though it was stored
a foot away for thirty days or any
other period, would make it forever
inacceptable in interstate commerce.
TO GET 32 HORSES EACH
Wnr Depart men t Announce* Provis
ions for Mount* for Cavalry Troops
and l-'lelil Artillery flatteries.
WASHINGTON. September 'JO.?Na
tional Guard cavalry troops and Held j
artillery batteries are to lie allotted'
thirty-two horses each, to lie main
tained by the Federal government, on
their return from the Mexican border
to home stations. A provision to this
effect ill the national defense act. the
War Department to-day announced, is
to lie made effective immediately to
meet the existing shortage of mounts
in the guard.
There are 12."> cavalry troops and
101 batteries of field artillery in the
National Guard. Headquarters com
panies, Held hospital and signal corps
units also will be supplied with horses
40 CENTS FOR RATIONS A DAY
t oiiioiu ta t Ion for West I'olii*. Cadets
Increased From :?) Cents, as
Previously Provided,
fSpeci.nl to The Times-I lispatch. 1 j
WASHINGTON, September ? C:t - j
dels at the l.'nited States Military Acad- >
cmy at West I'oint are to receive a t
"coinmulation of -10 cents per ration
per day." dating from July I. loin, in-j
stead of ::?? rents a day, as previously '
provide.d.
Controller of the Treasury Warwick
rendered a decision to this effect to- .
day in answer to a question front tho j
Secretary of War. The increase was
provided for by Congress owing to the
higher cost of living.
STEAMER R0DDAM SUNK
Klcveit Members of I'ren nf llrHUli
Ship Deported I.muled at
\ nleiiela.
LONDON. September 20?I,l*?yd's an
nounces that the steamer Roddam i*a?
been Miin1#. and that eleven membeis of
the crew hate been lauded at Valeric-;*.
The Hoi' |,\tn was a V.ritish steamer |
of 3.'.'10 tons gross, btiiit in 101- and
owned in Newcastle. She left Rainy,!
Wale.s, on September I! for Savon i,
Italy, and was\ reported at Gibraltar
September 1 o.
FIGHT AGAINST SUFFRAGE
Prominent Women Plan *o I'Nirm Antl
Orgnnl/alioiis in Kvery Congres
sional District In Country.
NRW YORK, September 20.? Plans
to extend the campaign against the
woman suffrage movement were made
at a meeting of prominent women from
nine Stales at the headquarters of
the National Association Opposed to
Woman Suffrage in this city to-day
An effort will ho made, it was stated,
to form anti-organizations In every
congressional district In the country.
BRITISH STEADILY,;
PUSHING FORWARD
ON SOME FRONT
Make Additional Progress
Toward Peronne-Ba
paume Road.
ADVANCE IS CONTESTED
STRONGLY BY GERMANS
Rain Is Hampering Operations
on Remainder of Anglo
French Line.
XO I1ICJ ACTIVITY" KI,Si:\VITERF;
Roumanians at Hcrnmnnstadt Re
ported Repulsed !>>? Troops of
Central I'owcrs.
I.ON'DOX, September 29.?Steadily
I ho British troops are pushing forward
toward tho Pot onno-Rapaume road, the
main artery immediately behind the
German linos north of Combles. After
taking .?on yards of trenches southwest
of I.o Snrs. General Sir Honglas Haig's
'non made additional progress in tho
' (l of r.00 yards of German
to 11 eheast of I.es P.oeufs.
Tho British occupancy of the ter
ritory hot ween Thi<?pval and the Ancre
is being contested strongly l>y tho Ger
mans. A Herman counterattack after
tho entry of the Rritish into a section
of th" Hessian trench resulted in the
forcing out of the holders. The sec
tion was regained later, however, by
the r.ritish. lleavy fighting also has
occurred around tho stuTT redoubt.
Rain is hampering operations on the
remainder of the Anglo-French front
north of the Sommc, according to ofli
cial statements. Paris mentions no
activity after tho advance between
Kr? gi^-ourt and Morval toward Sailly,
on the Peronne-Bapaume road.
\o taiKA'r activity
OX ANY OF OTIIKIt KROXTS
There has been no great activity on
any of the other fronts in Europe ex
cept in Transylvania, where the Aus
I ro-German forces have repulsed the
Roumanians at Hormnnnstadt. Vienna
says that Teutonic forces also have oc
cupied the heights east and southeast
of the town after violent lighting. The
battle in this section, however, has not
> et been finished.
The intense lighting in the region
of Korynitzu, on the Eastern front in
Russia, appears to have come to an
end. Berlin and Vienna say that the
Russiaii prisoners have .increased to
forty-one otilcers and :},00rt men. Tho
forces under Prince Leopold of Ravaria
here also took two cannon and thirty
three machine guns. Merlin records
the repulse ot a Russian advance near
< loduzischki. and I'etrograd claims tha
defeat of a German attack near Guk
alov. Fighting continues in tho Car
pathians but there has been no chango
In t he battle lines.
In .Macedonia the entente allied
troops are withstanding Bulgarian at
tacks. The Serbians have checked
four attacks against positions on tho
Knimukcalan I'lat.an. and the French
have withstood assaults upon the
liroda River.
Crown Prince Kupprccht of Bavaria,
commander oV the German forces on
I be Sommc front, and Or. von Bath
tnann-Uollweg, iho Imperial Chancel
lor. both declare that the efforts of tho
French and British to force a I.reach
in the (icrmnn lines on the Somnie have
been fruitless. The entente troops
will have to go through a winter cam
paign on the Sommc and continue their
efforts next year, Crown Prince Rup
precht is quoted as saying. Tho Im
l.erial ('hancellor, in his address to the
Reichstag, declared that the German
front there "stands firm and unshak
en.- and added that -the end is not
yet in sight."
GAI.V OF .'>111) YARDS
10 A ST t)K l,|:s BOEI FS
I .ON BOX, September 29.?East of
l.es P.oeufs. on the Somnie front, Rrit
isb troops have occupied 500 yards of
German trenches, says the otlicial state
ment issued by the Rrttish War Otttco
to-night There was heavy fighting
near Thlepval.
1 he l.ritisli were forced from a sec
tion of the "Hessian' trench." but re
gained it later. The statement adds
th.; t more than ">oo prisoners were
taken ill litis fighting.
The statement reads:
"Rain fell heavily to-day, and ex
cepi for intermittent shelling there was
lntlc activity on our center and our
tight wing of the battle front. Some
slight progress was made east of Les
Hoeufs, where we occupied .".00 yards
of enemy trenches.
Ihiepval area there was
heavy lighting around the Stuff re
doubt. Having taken an Important
.-oction ?if the Hessian trench, we were
forced out of it by a counterattack,
but regained it later in the day.
In Hi's section, during the last
twenty-four hours, wo have taken
prisoner eiaht otliceis and .".21 men of
other ranks.
In spite of the weather our aero
planes have done useful work attack
ing the enemy's re-enforcements on tho
move. Yesterday enemy aircraft pa
trolled actively behind their own lines,
but showed little enterprise One en
emy machine was destroyed. Ons of
our machines has not returned."
FOI'TI CKIMIA \ A r.dOPf,A
MffOri.MT > liv Itt<4*IAV5
PETRfiGRAH, September 29 (via
London).?An ofllcini statement Issued
to-day by the Russian War Depart
ment says:
"Western front: In the region of
Boruny and Krovo. southwest of
Smorgen. <.ur aviators Ynade a raid on
points in the rear of the enemy's lines
Bombs were su.eossfuUy dropped at
various places, causing explosions and
fires among the enemy's stores. Bombs
also were dropped on wagons, on nnr
