f
tin
MARKETS
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY;
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Sept 27, 26.75.
ARIZONA: Saturday,
oartly cloudy; warmer.
Sunday, fair.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
vnoziuv 'xinjohV
VOL. 19. NO. 98.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1916.
uCE FIVE CENTS
1 V
PRO-BRITISH
CHARGE GETS
WILSON
Hi?
"You and Other Disloyal
Americans ouia morury
Me With Your Vote" Says
President, His Dander Up.
"THIS FOR YOU AND
ALL YOUR FRIENDS'
President Also Wants Hughes
to Declare Himself on 8
Hour Day, Tariff- Mexico,
and Other Issues.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONG BRANCH, N. J.. Sept 29.
President Wilson made it plain today
that he wants no "disloyal" Americans
to vote for him. He expressed indig
nation at a telegram from Jeremiah
A. O'Leary, of New York, the president
of the American Truth Society, ac
cusing him of being pro-British and
saying he had failed to obtain com
pliance with American rights.
The President sent Mr. 0"Leary a
short telegram which officials indicat
ed Mr. Wilson had desired to put in
stronger language. His message fol
lows: Doesn't Want Their Vote.
"Your telegram received. I
would feel deeply mortified to
have you or anybody like j'ju
vote for me. Since you have
access to many disloyal Ameri
cans and I have not, I will ask
you to convey this message to
them." ' i -
Mr. OLeary's telegram, given out'P- were Pirchafed last evening
by the President, follows: I by the city of Bisbee from the Amerl-
"Again we reet you with a popular can La France Fire Engine Con.pany,
disapproval of your pro-British poll- inc., of Elnilra, New York. The con-
cies. Last year from the twenty
third New York congressional district j
and now from your own state and
from the voters of j'jur party. Senator j
Marine won because the voters of l
New Jersey do not want any truckling
to the British empire nor do they ap -
prove of dictatorship over congress,
Pro-British? on the part of the council, me nre
"Your foreign policies, your failure chief and all of those who favor great
to secure compliance with all Ameri-ler efficiency, at a reduced expense, in
can rights, your leniency with the the fighting of fire. With the ever
British empire, your approval of war increased need for speed, for a reduc
loans, the American tariff are Issues j tion Vf upkeep, while apparatus is not
in this campaign. Do you know that in use, the motor truck has come into
William S. Bennett, a Republican con- j general use. On every side of Bisbee
gressman, ran in the Democratic pri- j cities have seen the need of such ap
niaries in the twenty-third New York paratus and this community is the
congressional district and polled 36 last to fall in line- Tucson, Douglas,
ner rent of the tntal Democratic vote
against his regular Democratic op
ponent? Anglo-maniacs and British
interest may control newspapers, but
they don't control Vjtes. The people
may be readers, but they are not fol
lowers of the newspapers.
"When, Sir, will you respond to
these evidences of popular disapproval . bid proposal each truck will rtst the
of your policies, by action? The Mar-1 city $6,000. This includes every de
tine election and Benett vote prove tail of construction, the latest and
you have lost support among the ' p."oved models of apparatus for the
Democrats. I most efficient fire fighting and a guar-
"Every vote for Martine was a vote ' antee with the machines that protects
against youtas was every Democratic them against faulty workmanship and
Vte that went for Mr. Bennett in the j material as long as they may be in
Democratic primaries in the twecty-1 use. The city has budgeted $5,000 for
third congressional district." j this purpose and. it is understood, the
To Speak Today. balance of the payments will be made
The President's attitude toward the in three years,
campaign and toward some of 'he j The nrtitor of the trucks, purchased,
issues before the country were mad . is a si cylinder affair, four cycle, 5
known here today. It was learned inch bore and 6 inch stroke, making
that in his speech at Shadow Lawn , 105 horse power. The cylinders are
tomorrow and in subsequent addresses cast in pairs. The turning radius of
he intends to state definitely why he j the entire machine, which has a
seeks another term. I wheel base of 155 3-4 inches. Is twen-
Following is an authoritative sum- j ty two feet, making it capable of easy
niary of his campaign attitude: j handling In the narrow streets and
Wont Get Personal. alleys of the city of Bisbee. The
"The President will adhere strictly chemical equipment consists of a for
to his decision not to enter into per- ty gallon tank, with reel, 200 feet cf
sonalities or into a political contro- chemical hose, tfjsles, wreches, etc.
versy with Charles E. Hughes. All Pumping equipment, which is for us?
the speeches he will make away from j "hen pressure is low, will consist of
Shadow Lawn will be delivered to an apparatus, designed and made by
non-partisan organizations and will be the American La France Company,
devoted entirely to a discussion of ; capable of pumping 1000 gallons of
public questions. By inference they j water per minute, 250 gallons through
will have a political effect. i each of four hoses.
"His speeches here, however, will j With the apparatus the selling com
be more political in tjne. Tomorrow pany sends an installing engineer
he will tell why he thinks young men , who will stay on the ground until
should vote the Democratic ticket. i such time as the focal men are fully
Mr. Hughes, Please Answer. (capable of handling every part of the
"American voters are entitled to machinery. One of the machines will
know, he believes, what Republicans take the place of the horse-drawn
would do In Mexico, what attitude wagon at the city hall and the other
they would take toward belligerent ill supplant that In Upper Tomb
nations In Europe, whether they stone Canyon. According to Baird.
would repeal the federal reserve act. the representative of the company,
the tariff law, the rural credits act, the trucks can reasonably be expected
the tariff commission bill, the 8 hour in Bisbee in about four months' time.
(Continued on Page Four.) j (Continued on Page 8)
football, baseball
AT WARREN TOMORROW.
Warren Park will stage Its
Openiug football game and its
last baseball game of the season
tomorrow. .
At 10 a. m.. the C. & A. foot
ball squad meets the First Cav
alry team from Naco. At 2::!0
p. in. the C. & A. and the Junction
All Star baseball teams will play
tiieir last game for the champion
ship of the Warren District. Hon
ors so far have been even, with
l'jur victories each against the
other. Tomorrow's game will
end the argument.
The gridiron is in shape, the
goal posts up, the grouDd has
been chalked. AH is ready for
the shrill whistle that will start
the football warriors against each
other tomorrow m'orning.
Big La France Engines, Cost
ing $6000 Each, Will Make
Bisbee Best Protected Town
in Arizona.
TRUCKS TO ARRIVE
WITHIN 4 MONTHS
Each Will Throw 1000 Gal
Ions a Minute and Pump
Water if Needed Marks
Victory in Long Fight.
Tw'j six-cylinder, one hundred and
1 five horse power combination truck
and chemical wagons, with auxilliary
tract, to be signed by both parties
within the next few days, calls for an
expenditure of $12,000. Thomas Baird
represented the fire engine company
in the bidding.
The purchase of two motor trucks
last evening is the
more than two years
culmination of
of constant work
i
Nogales. FhOeMX. ana Several Oiner
towns are equipped with them.
Bisbee, with the arrival of the
pair purchased last evening, will
be the better protected, propor
tionately, than any city in the
state.
According to the specifications and
GOODBYE HORSES
BISBEE BUYS
TWO FIRE
TRUCKS
Arizona Democrats
Upheld Policies of
President Wilson
xBy Review Leased Wire)
PHOKNIX, Sept. 29 Unqualifiedly
endorsing President Wilson, Governor
Hunt, the Arizona delegation in con
gress and all the polic ies of both the
national and state Democratic admin
istrations, the Democratic state plat
form was adopted this afternoon by
the state party council. The platform
is one of the longest on record.
The platform points with glowing
terms to the administration of Presi
dent Wilson, commends his Interna
tional policies and commends him for
passing the Adamson bill, the farm
loan bill and other popular Democrat -
ic measures.
Prohibition, woman suffrage and
good roads are endorsed, while the
workmen's compensation law to be
voted on this fall, the "negative con
servation policy of Republicanism"
and legislation redistricting are com
mended. Eloquent Pleas of Methodist
Pastor Win for a Moment,
But Mob Later Finishes
Fiendish Act.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NOWATA, Okla., Sept. 29. Two
negroes, accused of being implicated
in the killing of Deputy Sheriff James
Gibson, during a jail delivery here to
day, were taken from jail by a mob
tonight and lynched in front of the
court house.
It was only a few minutes' after the
negroes had pained their freedom
that a mob bent on vengeance was in j
close pursuit. Two of the negroes i
took refuge in a house in the out
skirts of Notwata, where they were
surrounded and re-arrested. The
third negro apparently made good his
escape. One of the re-arrested ne
groes, John Foreman, alleged to have
been the man who killed Gibson, was
wounded when taken into custody and
was not molested.
But the unwounded negro was seiz
ed by the mob, which had grown to
large proportions and a parade began
through the principal streets with the
negro screaming for mercy. When
the mob reached the Methodist church
a large tree with outspreading, branch
es offered the opportunity which the
rope around the negro's neck suggest
ed. "Let's lynch the nigger on holy
ground," shouted some one in the
crowd. The prisoner was swung clear
of the ground and was being choked
to death when Mr. Hi Pearce appear
ed. Attracted from his study in the
parsonage by the negro's screams, he
rushed from the house into the midst
of the crowd and began his pleading
for the doomed man's life. The mob
paused in Its work to hear what the
minister had to say.
"Men, I beseech you in the name of
God not to desecrate this holy
ground," pleaded Mr. Pierce, "do not
stain the name of our city by going
Into this terrible affair."
With voice quivering with emotion
and earnestness he demanded that the
law be allowed to take its course.
Five minutes the pastor spoke along
these lines, until one of the mob lead
ers, turning to his fellows, said:
"Men, Mr. Tierce is right. Take the
nigger back to jail and let the law
take Its course."
The mob, sobered by the Impassion
ed words of the pastor, and the as
sumption of leadership taken by one
Rained On Their Last
Leave
Early this morning the District of
Columbia field hospital ai.d Battery B
will set forth for Douglas, bidding
Camp Greenway and the Warren Dis
trict farewell. It is believed. Their
signal corps company alone will re
main, only to depart Wednesday In
company with the New Jersey corn-
pany fi.m Douglas, for Noeales.
From annearance no other soldiers :
i uiinii a iirnnnpn
LTUH
Br OKLAHOMA
are expected at Warren. The Twenty- j thence eventually home,
second bakery and other rprlmrntal Last nl.sht nil the boys were rn
properties, left standing after the re- ramped in their shelter, or "dMg"
glment's departure two weeks ago. are tents. In preparation for their hike
being torn down, and nothing will re-
main to remind the district there ever
I 1 STILL
HIS FOR
PROMISED
SHE
1 In Meanwhile Car Service Im
proves, Mary Unions Vote
. v . . iri i m
iu Kciun, ;iu iw;
uthers luit 1 neir jobs.
GENERAL STRIKE NOW
DEEMED DIPROBABLE
Ferry Boat Men Quit Action
Not Related to Carmen s
Troubles Sixteen Hurt by
Streetcar Collision. ...
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK, Sept. 29. Ferry boats
of the New York Central Railroad
J Company, plying between Manhattan
and New Jersey were tied up during
the rush hours late today by a strike
of 150 employes on the boats. The
latest labor difficulty In this city re
suited from the men's demand for
shorter hours and higher pay. The
strike has no connection, it is said,
with the traction situation.
Thousands of commuters gathered
at the Manhattan Ferry stations of
the company, the crowds overflowing
the ferry houses into the streets,
where a heavy rain was falling. Not
until the police reserves were called
out did the commuters abandon their
demand for boats. They left the city
for their home in New Jersey over
roundabouts routes. '
Strike Talk Lessens
Probability of a general sympathet
ic strike In aid of the employes who
quit their places on September 6 les-
sened tonight with the announcement
that a local brewery workers' union,
whose 900 mem hers struck in response
to the call of the conference of labor
leaders, had voted to return to work,
Officials of the union issued a state-
ment in which it was said develop-
ments nroved that organized labor
will not act in concert in behalf of
the carmen."
Organization of subway and elevat
ed road motormen will continue, ac
cording to the statement made today
by L. G. Griffith, third assistant grand
chief of the Brotherhood of Locomo
tive Engineers, In charge of the work
in this city.
The Amalgamated Association of
Street and Electric Railway Employes
today took steps to distribute strike
benefits among the striking car men,
it was announced by Janes H. Fahey,
general counsel of the association.
16 Injured
Sixteen persons were Injured, on
seriously, In a rear end collision be
tween two surface cars In the Bronx
th's afternoon. One car was standing
still when the other, said to have
been operated by strike breakers,
crashed into it. The motorman of the
rear car jumped from his post, it is
said, nd disappeared.
Marked improvement in surface car
traffic was reported today.
"WIDE AWAKE" CLUB IS
FORMED FOR HUGHES
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Sept. 29 The organi
zation of the "Hughes Wide Awake"
club, patterned after clubs formed in
the campaign of 1860 to aid Lincoln's
'andidacy, was announced here today.
The organization plans call for bands
of forty men In each county of every
state where there is a Hughes alliance.
Night In Camp, D. D. Guards
Warren District Today, Perhaps Forever
were soldiers In the district, except
perhaps their memory.
Bisbee got its first and last good
Rok at the Blgnal company yesterday
when about fifty of the company un
der Lieutenants MarLennan and Rus
sell, marched through town to the
Divide with a couple of reel carts, and
returned to camp again. From No
gales, for which they leave Wednes-
dy. they will go to Douglas,
and
today. The rain swept in on them
and the wind made them perhaps the ,
Germans Resume Act
of Abusing America
For Neutrality
(By Review Leased Wire)
BERLIN, Sept. 29. Immediately on
the heels of the utterances of the Im
perial chancellor in the Reichstag
concerning the submarine campaign,
the afternoon newspapers generally
print strong criticism of the netrality
of the United States based on the
news of the death of the American
aviator Kiffin Rockwell and the pres
ence of other American aviators on
the western front.
They connect this evidence of Am
erican sympathy for the entente al
lies, and the supplying of war muni
tions by firms in the United States as
! an indication of the futility of con-
cessions to the American standpoint
with ref;ard to 8ubmarlnes.
They de-
; clare that these facts show how Am
erican respect for neutrality is van
ishing and how America is misusing
the present form of submarine war
fare to cover the participation of American-
concerns In the war on the
side of the entente allies.
RIFLE TEAM OF
GET TRIP
Any Twelve Men Shooting 90
on Range Tomorrow, May;
Be Sent .to National Shoot
in Florida October 11.
Quick action by the Bisbee rifle
clubs has brought a favorable reply
from Adjutant General Harris stating
he will ret'jmmend a Bisbee team of
12 men to represent Arizona at the
National shoot In Florida next month,
upon one provision. That is, that at
least twelve men shoot an average 'of
90 over the different ranges.
R. A. ClampitL to whom the ad-
iutant 'general gave these assurances
yesterday, announced the team will be
selected from those shooting on the
range Sunday, tomorrow. This is
necessary, as the time is short and Is
in accordance with General Harris'
suggestions.
Twenty shots must be fired at
rapid fire at 200 yards, twenty slow
fire each at 600 and 1000 yards. The
firing must average ninety of a pos
sible 100. The range will be open all
day tomorrow, and all are urged to
try tor the team. Springfields will be
used in the Florida meet, which opens
October 11, and lasts about fifteen
days.
Clampitt advises all to bring their
lunch, as the sL'ooting will be an all
day affair. .
WASHINGTON COAL MINERS
TO STRIKE TONICHT
(By Review Leased Wire)
SEATTLE, Sept. 29. Suspension of
work tomorrow night by all coal min
ers in Washington belonging to the
United Mine Workers of America, was
ordered today by the district conven
tion. The suspension was ordered to
permit a referendum vote of the min
ers on the counter proposition sub
mitted by the operators to the min
ers' demand for a five percent flat
wage increase.
BRITISH THINK SPEECH OF
HOLLWEG SIGN OF WEAKENING
LONDON, Sept. 30. All the news
papers devote a major part of their
editorial space to a discussion of the
speech of the imperial chancellor von
Bethmann-Hollweg in the Reichstag,
contrasting its mild tone with former
utterances. The editorials all assert
that aside from the attacks on Eng
land, the chancellor said little, that
was new and perhaps disappointed
those who wished to make peace ov
ertures. least comfortable since they've been
here.
The battery and field hospital will
set forth at sunrise today, the battery
aiming to complete the trip today, the
hospital will march afoot, encamp at
Forrest tonight, and enter the Smelter
City early tomorrow.
No news about the Third Regiment,
of the District of Columbia militia has
been received and many are beginning
to doubt if it Is destined to come to
the District.
Major Robinson of the Eighteenth
Infantry, U. S. A. Inspected the guard's
horses yesterday and pronounced them
in splendid Ondition.
1
MILLION AND HALF
FOR DEMOCRATIC RACE.
NEW YORK. Sept 29. A fund
of $1,500,000 gold will be required
f conduct the Democratic na-
tional campaign, according to a
statement made here tonight by
Henry Morgenthau, treasurer of
the national campaign committee,
He declared New York was ex-
pected to contribute about one
third of this amount, which ex-
ceeds by about $400,000 the sum
- spent In the 1912 campaign.
As an example of the increased
ttst of the present campaign,
Mr. Morgenthau said that the
printing bill alone would be three
times as much as it was in 1912
because of the increased price of
paper. He announced that con-
tributions thus far received ex-
ceeded by 65 per cent those which
had been sent in up to the same
time in 1912.
There have been several contri-
butions of $10,000 each but only
three of more than that amount,
he said.
IS BREMEN SUNK?
LIFE SAVER IS
FOUND OFF
MAINE
Runprecht of Bavaria, commander of
Preserver With Printed Name t-e oran forces on the Somme.
"Bremen" Picked Up Near Tuesday.
Portland, May TeU Tragic .J rX
Fate of German Sub . j Entente allies had gained some
- j rrovnd. bnt there could be no thought
NEW LONDON WAITS lof tnis 3eclsive,T changing the situa
im irttM r-"r uci tt ! tion.
in v Axil run. jun
No Knowledge of Approach-itMnrs win go h.
ing Under Sea Freighter I,!; "i't
Acknowledged by German
Agents May be a Joke.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Sept. 29.
No submarine has been seen in the '
waters adjacent to New London at a .
late hour tonight. Officials of the
Eastern Forwarding Company and
the T. A. Scott Wrecking Company,
claimed thev hail nn knnwlprize nf the i
earlv annroach of a German submar-
jne
PORTLAND, Me., Sept. 29 A life
preserver marked "Bremen." the
name of the German submarine
freighter which has been generally
expected to arrive at some Atlantic
coast port for the past week or more.
was picked up on the ocean side of
Cape Elizabeth today.
The name "Bremen" was stenciled
in black letters two inches high on
both sides of the buoy. On one side
of the canvas covering was printed a
small crown. Over this were the
words "Shutz-Marke" meaning patent
ed, or trade mark. Beneath are the
words, "Vepping-Hoven. Wilheln-shav-en."
This indicated, apparently, the
name of the maker.
The preserver seemed to be new
and apparently had not been in the
water a great length of time. It was
stained with oil. ' An officer of the
coast guard cutter service who ex
amined the buoy said that if the pre
server had been thrown overboard by
someone who thought to play a prac- !
tical Joke, he had done a very good
job.
The preserver was well made and
the lettering and the ink were of the
best quality.
The buoy was picked up at a small
place known as Maiden Cove, by a
10 year old lad, Frederick L. Takeman ,
of Westbrook. A number of other per
sons were nearby at the time and saw ,
the boy pick up the object from the!n,pnps to defeat G"nt Britain, sism'
beach near the water's edge. The pg ft,at pr TO Rethmann-Hollweg
buoy later was taken to a newspaper ,
office where It was photoeraphed and
examined by many seafaring men.
I pvpiher of w'nts wre untouched by
tp rhance'lnr. which many of them
NEW LONDON. Conn., Sept. 29 ! wished to hear d'scisod. All the
Officials of the Eastern Forwarding newsnancn except the Vorwarts. are
Company, among them an American j rrat'flcd that the chfo-"rr emoha
agent for the German line cf the sub- i siod the stMerrtpr-t that J'BKland Is
marine merchantmen, were unuisturb- ! OnRnv's rMcf foe.
ed tonight over the report that a life i it significant te rove impnt
preserver had been picked up oT the ni-pss fets collv at the ccn"'
Maine coast. When asked If the pre- ' w H about the Intrigues against
server might have belonged to the Mpif
long expected submarine, Captain F. I
Hinsrh snid:
"Impossible." He added that It was
unlikely that the Bremen's preservers
would be marked In the manner of n te Fr hit loaves evprytVng ob
the one found. hou-rd and foe-v.
FAITH LIKES
IN GERMANY
SAYS CRUViiJ
PICE
Unshaken by Onslaughts By
Allies, we Know They Can
not Break Our Line" De
clares Bavarian Officer.
"ALLIES FIND NUT
TOO HARD TO CRACK
' Heir to Throne Sees Another
Year of World Struggle Be
fore Allies Are Exhausted.
Sees Ultimate Victory.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
BERLIN. Sept 29. The latest fight
ing on the Somme evidently has not
shaken the confidence of German
military leaders in their ability to pre
vent the breach of their line. The
Berliner Tngeblatt's special war cor
respondent interviewed Crown Prince
Ready For Anythinq
Is lmpoasipie to predict bow
"It
hereafter," said Prince
one thin? 's certain
pTelr, that we have every thin so
thor)"h'v rremred that wp are able
to co&temolafe tb situation with
pnnanlltv. The offensive will cer
tainlr rot reach rn early end.
Expe't Lena Offensive
"We pan recVon nnnn n nffn'v
nf rt ne'-slstenoe and with heavy
ttacv. 'acrotffwnled hv an enormous
exiend'ture of a munition. But we
have taken precautions. Our artillery
has hn re'rrrced and likewise our
aeroplane corps and oir fliers have
'. h fine ccess In the last fw days.
altioneh they hive had bird flehting
j nealnst increased numbers. .Our ar-
tnie-v d-Ivpn advantage from the
successful wort of the aeroplanes,
j nd to observation baloons.
n Arpth: V"r Fpre!?
I "O'lr troons hare heen striking wth
. fb two,t MrmKt and the enemy
hnfj f)d fh mu oo haH fo cnc
ft Jfj m aiMrrt onnlon th(lt the ene.
,g trvJn fo forre , derision at lhl9
stv)t pnd ,,, fhfs Tar ,n(J ne
ftt gllrcppdp(1 A win n,ve to
t up , ,, ,nd
! ct,nu(, h,s fighMn pxt yea..
REVIVAL OF "SUB"
WARFARE SEEN IN
HOLLWEG'S SPEECH
(By Review Leased Wire)
BFRLIN. Sept. 29. The speech of
Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg. the impe-
rin! rhancel'or. in the Reichstag, met
with a mixed recemion in the news
papers, the feeling be'ng variously
expressed that he placed such re-
traint on himslf that his utterances
lacked definiteness.
The Crnservtiv"s. for "sample, ask
pointedly whether Us sharp words
Rlralnst Fneland and his declaration
that the statesman should be hanred
wn(, omits adopting every possible
wnnng to resume submarine war-
farP,
ynp Cnnservativp also note that a
The Vnrwarta
lirrlnr te fpp,:n"S
nf aoW'sts p"-ossp1 iitlnct d'san
MnTmp.it nvT the spcrV which It
savs leaves no pYarp'ts for shortPn-
