THE AfilZONA BE PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL i v
TWKNTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1916
8 PAGES
- VOL. XXVIL, NO. 134
T?nn
mm mm
n.
Ca H.1 El am C BB El 9m, m K a
rows
OVER THOUSAND S OF
TncHPUCC ftp: TISKfM mitt
IIILHUIILU nilL imLll ULUIIIL )
UrMfV PCDMAM PnilMTCD UTTRPIC D
ILK. I DLIHiinilUUUHlLM ill I HUM D
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
Steadily the British troops are pushing forward toward the Peronne-Ba-paumt
road, the main artery immediately behind the German lines north of
Combles. After takinq 530 yards of trenches southwest of Lesars, Genoral
Sir Douglas Haig's men made additional progress in the capture of SCO yards
of German trenches east of Les Boiefs.
The British occupancy of the territory between Thiepval and the Ancra
is being contested strongly by the Germans. A German counter attack after
the entry of the British into a section of the Hessian trench, resulted in
the forcinq out of the holders. The section was regained later, however, by
the British. London says. Heavy fighting also has occurred around the
Stuff reHoubt.
Rain is hampering operations on the remainder of the Anglo-French
fiont north of the Somme, according to official statements.
There has been no great activity on any of the other fronts in Europe
except in Transylvania, where the Austro-Germans have repulsed the Ru
manians at Hermannstadt. Vienna says the Teutonic forces also have oc
cupied the heights east and southeast of the town after violent fighting. The
battle in this section, however, has not yet been finished.
The intense fightinq in the region of Korynitia, on the eastern front in
Russia, appears to have come to an end. Berlin and Vienna say that the
Russian prisoners have increased to 41 officers and 3.000 men. The forces
under Prince Leopold of Bavaria here alto took two cannon and 33 ma
chin; guns. Berlin records the repulse of Russians near Goduzischki, and
Petio&rad claims the defeat of the Germans near Gjkalov.
In Macedonia entente allied trooas are withstanding Bulgarian attacks.
Serbians have checked attacks on the Kaimakcalcn plateau, and French
have withstood assaults along the Broda river.
Crown Prince Rupprecht of Bavaria, commander of the German forces
on the Somme front, and Or. von Bethmann-Hollwcg, the imperial chancel
lor, both declare that the efforts of the French anH British to force a brer,-:h
in the German lines on the Somme have been fruitless. Entente troops will
have to oo through a winter campaign and continue their efforts next year,
Crown Prince Rupprecht is quoted as saying. The imperial chancellor, in
his address to the reichstaq, declared that the German front there "stands
firm and unsha.en and adds that the
The British Statement
LONDON, Sept. 29. East of I.es
Roeufs on the Somme front British
troops have occupied 50') yards of
lei man trenches, says the official
yt: tement issued by the British war
office tonight. There was heavy
fmhting near Thiepval.
The British were forced from a
section of the "Hessian trench" Jut
regained it later. The statement adds
that more than 500 prisoners were
taken in this fight.
The French Statement
PARIS, Sept. 29. Today's official
Ftatement says:
(in the Somme front our troops
scored fresh progress between Frige
court and Morval. Both north and
south of the river there have been
nrtillery engagements of varying in-,
tensity.
neropbne was attacked by our pilots
jind crashed t the ground north of
liheims. Another fokker was hit and
l.adly damaged and dived head first
into its own line." .
. !
The German Statement '
BERLIN. Soot. 29 (via London.)
The repulse of a strong British at-
tack on the Somme front is reported
in today's announcement, which says:
"After the sanguinary repulse of the
enemy's attacks on Wednesday the
battle of the Somme slackened con
siderably yesterday.
"A strong British attack, between
the Ancre and Courcelette. was re
pulsed on the western wing in hand
to hand fighting with the loss of a
mnll trench section."
The ossische Zeitung prints a rein-it
from Vienna that the retirement
of Huron Burian as Austro-Hungarian
m'nister of foreign affairs Is rumored
there with "growing certainty."
Baron Karl Von Macchiach. former
nmbnssn.ior to Rome, it is added, is
most frequently mentioned as Baron
Hunan's successor.
The iate.it fighting on the Somme
evidently has not shaken the con
fidence of German military leaders
in their ability to prevent the breach
in their line. The Berliner Tage
blatt's snecial war enrrcsiionden' In
terviewed Crown Prince Rupprecht, of
ltavaria, commander of the German
forces on the Somme, Tuesday.
The crown prince is quoted as hav
ing said that since the offensive be
gan the entente allies had gained
some ground, but there could be no
thought of this decisively changing
the situation.
"It is Impossible to predict how
things will ro hereafter," said Prince
llupl reiht. "but one thing is certain,
namely, that we have everything so
thoroughly prepared that we are able
to contemplate the situation with
Hinnnimlty, whatever comes. The
iffrsiv will certainly not reach an
early end.
"We can reckon upon an offensive
of great licrsistence and with heavy
attacks, accompanied by an enormous
expenditure of nmm'mitin-'. w
ha . taken precautions. Our artillery
na-j been reinforced and bitwise i 000 by F. J. P. von Kngkelen, director
aeroplare corps and our fliers have of the mint at Washington, who spoke
had fine successes in the last lew here today at the closing session of
iT- Rllno"n they have had hird the annual convention of the Ameri
fighling against increased numbers. I can Bankers' lAssociation.
Our artillery derives advantage from "We are melting up and turning into
successful work of fhe aeroplanes,
Socialist Nominee Goes
After Hughes and Wilson
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
NEW YORK, Sept. 29. Allan L.i
Benson, nominee of the socialist party
for president, addressing two meetings
ft socialist In Brooklyn tonight, ac-
iiKed President Wilson of being an
enemy to labor and declared that no
issue is too dead for Charles E.
llughe:i, the republican nominee for
president, to revive.
"l're.ident Wilson calls himself the
friend of the working man," Mr. Ben
son said. "He cannot be a friend h
cause he is your own enemy. In
ye irs past hen Mr. Wilson was pres
ident of Princeton University and
when he did not need your votes, he
devoted r.ome of his finp English to
the telling of what monstrous lustl-
end is not yet in sight.
after having formally been exposed
to observation by hostile aviators.
"Our trooos h;:ve been striking with
the utmost strength and the enemy!
has found the nut too hard to crack.!
It is my distinct opinion that the'
enemy :s trying to force a decision at j
this F OO t 111(1 dlirinir tlii vrar wnH I
1 he has not yet succeeded. He will
have to put up with a winter cam-'
paigr. and continue his fighting next
year."
For National Defense
I,ON"DOX, Sept. 30. Telegraphing
from Saloniki, Reuter's correspondent
says:
"The island of Chios has declared in
favor of national defense movement.
All the islands have now gone over to
the movement.
"The town of Kozani in western
Macedonia has joined the movement
and sequestered 2,". 000 drachma of
state funds which were being trans-
'erred to Athens. Former Premier
Venizelos and Admiral Coundouriotis
have telegraphed local followers that
the Cretans at an armed meeting pro-
claimed a provisional government com-
posed of Venizetists and Coundofot-
lts. with the power to add a third
member, and that the new government
was given the power to join the en-.
tente.
EL CENTRO IS SHAKEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES, Cal.. Sept. 29. El
Centro and other towns in the Im
perial valley reported that slight
rnilh.miVa cbncl-a Imd imn felt tit-
day and tonight but that no damag?to he the man who killed Gibson, was
had been cnused. A tremor was felt' wounded when taken into custody and
alao at San Diego, registering on ih I was not molested, but the unwounded
seismograph of the Point Loma ob
servatory. It was estimated that the
centre was very distant.
MORE BLACKMAILING
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
CHICAGO, Sept. ?9 Information of
a blackmailing aff lir in which the vic
tim is a wealthy Chicagoan and the
amount involved larger than any
heretofore revealed, was sent to the
deportment of Justice in Washington
liv Clinton fMnliflitch loci! investiea-
tor for th department. Agents of ;
tho department aie investigating sev-
cr.-,l r.ihev similar cases he said 1
TURNING MILLIONS OF FOREIGN
COIN INTO AMERICAN MONEY
Reoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire (worth of English sovereigns and French
KANSAS CITY, Sept. 29. The gold j twenty-franc pieces," the director de
imports from Europe and Canada thatclared.
1 yet may be expected to come into the
United States were placed at $400,000,-
' American money millions of dollars'
tutions labor unions are. He has now
reacneu a situation when he no longer' in country banks from 12 to 10 per
talks that way. He now poses an a Jcent of their capital. The subject of
friend of labor. If he is vour friend,
he would use his friendship to protect
the life and property of the working
man. He has not done this."
Mr. Benson said iMr. Hughes and
Mr. Wilson are client on the Hny
ChamherlHin army reorganization bill
which he termed the "draft bill," and
added:
"Mr. Hughes is not concerning him
self with the draft bill, but with Gen
eral Huerta, who is dead. There is
no Issue too dead for Mr. Hughes.
What kind of a gentleman's agree
ment has he and Mr. Wilson, so that
no mention of the "draft bill' has been
made in this campaign. .
Neutrality
lj& .
REMEN "SIGNS" ARE BEING REPORTED!
P
DEMOCRATS TO RAISE
HUGE CAMPAIGN FUND
i NEW YORK, Sept. 29 A fund I
j of Sl.sno.0ft0 will be required to
conduct the democratic national
campaign, according to a state- j
' ment made here tonight by Henry j
j Morganthau, treasurer of the na-
tion.il campaign committee. He j
I declared New York was expected j
I to contribute about one-third of
! this amount, which exceeds by j
! about $400,n00 the sum spent in
the 1!H2 campaign. As an ex- i
' ample of the increased cost of the i
I present compaign, Mr. Morgen-
! than paid that the printing bill.1
alone would be three times as '
much as it was in 1912 because
of the increased price of paper, j
He announced that contributions j
thus far received exceeded by 65
per cent those which had been i
pent in up to the t,ame date in I
I 1912. There have been several
I contributions of $10,000 each but
1 only three of more than that I
! amount, he said I
Q
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOWATA, Okla., Sept. 29. Two ne
groes, accused of being implicated in
the killing of Deputy Sheriff James
Gibson, during a jail delivery here to-
day. were taken from the Jail by a mob
tonight and lynched in front of the
court house,
fleas of Rev. Mr. I'ierce, a Metho-
dist minister, induced the mob, earlier
to desist in their plans. One of the
negroes, who had been swung to a tree
in the iaisonage yard was cut down
and" taken to jail. Later, however, the
prisiiers were dragged out and hung.
three negroes participated in the
Jail break. Sheriff James May at-
tempted to block their way to liberty,
and was knocked unconscious. Gibson
then went to the aid of his superior
and was instantly killed. Two negroes
were found by Deputy Sheriff Wade
Kivett, hiding in a remote part of the
town. The third is still at large.
It was only a few minutes after the
j negroes had gained their freedom that
a mob bent on vengeance was in close
1 pursuit. Two of the negroes took ref
! uge in a house in the outskirts of No
wata, where they were surrounded and
rearrested. The third negro apparently
made good his escape. One of the re
arrested negroes, John Foreman, said
negro was seized by the mob, which
had grown to large proportions, and a
parade through the principal streets
began with the negro screaming for
mercy, at a rope's end.
When the mob reached the Metho
dist church a large tree with out
spreading branches offered the oppor
tunity which the rope around the ne
gro's neck suggested.
"Let's lynch the negro on holy
ground," shouted someone in the
crowd. 1
The prisoner was swung clear of the
ground and was being choked to death
"
Continued on Page TWOl
miming Ol Slllilll pieces Ol money, lie
said, had more than doubled within, the
last year. This was said to indicate
the Increased spending capacity of the
country.
The annual election of officers re
sulted in the election of P. W. Goebel,
of Kansas City, Kas., from the ivice
presidency to the presidency, succeed
ing James K. Lynch of San Fran
cisco. C. A. Hinsch, of Cincinnati, was
named vice president. Oliver J. Sands,
of Richmond, Va., was re-elected chair
man of the insurance committee. Fred
erick E. Farnsworth, of New York; and
W. M. Wing, of LaCrosse, Wis., were
re-elected general secretary and treas
urer of the executive committee.
The final general conference was
marked by the passage of a recom
mendation for the reduction of reserves
congressional authorization of branch
domestic banks brought the first real
fight of the convention. Resolutions
were adopted against the branch bank
plan.
"The branch bank means the death
knell of the individual bank," ex-Gov
ernor J. VV. Bailey, of Kansas, de
clared. James K. Lynch, of San Francisco,
said after the vote had been taken that
the action went "directly against good
sound banking principles.
The resolution presented by George
E. Webb, of San Angelo, Tex., asking
congressional investigation into the
livestock Industry, was voted down
NEGROES SLAY
DEPUTY; II
ARELICREQ
of the United States
J& JZ? ?
ONE SMS BOAT
SEEN; in
Elf IS FOUND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WESTERLY, R. I.. Sept. 29. A fish
erman at Pleasant View, near Watch
Hill, overlooking Lorur Isl;iml Ritimrl
reported tonight that he had seen with
his marine glasses a large submarine
proceeding in the direction of New
London, where the German submarine
Bremen has been expected for more
than a week. She then was 2.1 miles
east of New London and showed on
her mast a bright white light above a
green light.
These lights, according to the ob
server, were the ones he had been told
by Captain Robinson of the tug West
erly would be carried by the German
submarine, which the tug some days
ago had bee ordered to look for.
The submarine was unaccompanied
and displayed no flags. The observer,
who professed to be familiar with the
appearance of American submarines
which have their base at New London,
said that she was of a different type
from any he had seen. The boat was
about two miles off shore and was go
ing at a moderate rate of speed. The
sea was very choppy.
No Submarine Seen
NEW LONDON, Sept. 29. No sub
marine has been seen in the waters ad
jacent to New London at a late hour
tonight. Officials of the Eastern For
warding company and the T. A. Soott
Wrecking company, agents in this
country of the German line of under-
sea merchantmen, claimed they had no
knowledge of the early approach of a
German submarine.
Find ''Bremen" Life" Preserver
PORTLAND. Maine, Sept. 29. A life,
preserver marked "Bremn." the name
of the German submarine freighter
which has been expected to arrive at
some Atlantic coast port for the past
week or more, was picked up on the
ocean side of Cape Elizabeth today.
The name "Bremen" was stencilled
In black letters two inches high on
both sides of the buoy. On one side of
the canvas covering was printed a
small crown. Over this were the words
"Shutz-Marke," meaning patented, or
trademark. Beneath are the words "V
Epping-hoven. Wilhelmshaben." This
indicated, apparently, the name of the
maker.
The preserver seemed to be new and
apparently had not been in the water a
great length of time. It was stained
with oil.
The preserver was well made, and
the lettering and the ink were of the
best quality.
The buoy was picked up at a Small
place known as "Maiden Cove." by a
ten year old lad. Frederic L. Lakeman,
of Westbrook. A number of other per
sons were nearby at the time and saw
the boy pick up the object from the
beach near the waters edge. The buoy
later was taken to a newspaper office
where it was exam.ned by many
taring men.
Impossible. Say Officials
NEW LONDON. Conn., Sept 29.-
Officials of the Eastern Forwarding
for the
'rrrrr,' n.r,r"l"nrn
men. were undisturbed tonight over the
renort that a life preserver marked
'Bremen" had been picked up off the
Maine coast. When asked if the Pre
server might have belonged to the long
expected submarine, Captain F. Hinsch
said:
"Impossible." He added that it was
unlikplv that the Bremen's -reservers
would be marked in the manner of the
one found.
WOMAN RUILTY OF MUDF'
WELLINGTON. Kas.. Sept. 29 Mrs.
Kdith Klfie Pevprly, 24 years old, was
found iruilty in district court here to
day of the murder of her two children.
Hazel, six years old, and Herbert, f'v
yenrs old, in Milan. Kansas. The
children were shot while asleop. in
sanity was the defense offered. Mrs.
Beverly had been Divorced from her
husband
o
Fay's Associate,
Wm. Kneblock
Is Captured
Republlcin A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 29. After a
search by federal secret service agents
which had extended over the entire
country, William Kneblock, who es
caped from the federal penitentiary at
Atlanta, Ga., August 29, with "Lieu- Probability of a general sympathetic
tenant" Robert Fay, convicted bomb strike in aid of the traction employes
plotter, was arrested here tonight. He who quit their places on September 6,
professed ignorance of the present j lessened tonight with the 'announce
whereabouts of Fay. 1 ment that a local brewery workers'
Knebloch was convicted in Baltimora union, whose 900 members struck in
for using the mails to defraud and was response to the -call of the confer
sent to Atlanta in May of this year to ence of latter leaders, had voted to
serve a term of 18 months. He is a return to work. Officials of the union
native of New York. So far as known . Issued a statement in which it was
he was not connected with the bomb said developments proved that organ
plots for which Fay was convicted. I ized labor "will not act in concert in
At the penitentiary Fay and Kneb- behalf of the car men."
loch were employed in the power house-' Organization of subway and ele
They escaped by use of forged passes vated motormen will continue, ae
on the pretense they had been directed cording to a statement made today
to repair a defective wire outside th by L. G. Gritting, third assistant
walls. -
HUGHES MARES TALKS
IN SOUTHERN NEW YORK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HORXELL N. Y.. Seut. 29. Charles I
E. Hughes went through the southern '
tier of counties in New York state to
day over his political battleground of
ten years ago. He spoke in four cities
and greeted with handshakes or a few
words, ten other audiences in smaller
towns.
Mr. Hughes repeated his views on
the protective tariff, the maintenance
"f -American rights and other issues of
the campaign. In his speech at Bins
hamton and again at Llmira and Corn
ins, the nominee went further than he
had gone before in making known his
views on the eight-hour day.
"I am not opposed to the principle!
of the eight-hour day," Mr. Hughes
Siiid, "I favor the general principle of
the eight-hour day. I should like to
see an eight-hour working day."
DRT GREELEY
E
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, SepU 28. A rousing
meeting bringing to an end the pro
hibition state convention tonight.
closed the far western invasion of the
dry campaigners wh'o left Chicago
three weeks ago for the Pacific coast.
The train will enter Kansas to'mor-
row and after a week's campaigning
in the middle west, arrive In Chicago
next Saturday night. Meetings were
held today m Rawlins, Laramie and
Cheyenne, Wyo., and Greeley and
Denver.
Greeley, which was founded by the
late Horace Greeley, and which had
a dry provision written into its char
ter and still carries a similar provis
ion in all deeds to real estate, gave
he sjieakers one of the best recep
tions of the present tour. A long line
of motor cars and a band, conspicuous
by its girl alto player and a large
crowd, met the speakers and escorted
-thorn to the city park. There was a
band stand decorated with flags and
bar,nt,;s the latter inscribed with this
plea,
"Beer is intoxicating: do not
(Continued on Page Two)
III
I
TIN'S SLA YERS INNOCENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRECCOTT. Sept. 29. A verdict of
, j ' h Un,w states district
Hea-jcmiVt in the murder tHal of Ashley
( Wilson. K. Nash and D. M. Robertson,
enijioes or toe eaiern iaajo m
idian Reservation, in northeastern Ari
zona, for the shooting last January of
rrad(iy Tin, an Indian, on the reserva -
I'tion. The shooting almost caused an
evidence to
show that Tin drew a revolver and re
JERSEY FERRY BOATS
CREWS STRIKE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NFW YORK, Sept 29. "Ferry boats
of the New York Central Railroad
i Company, plying between Manhattan
and New Jersey, were tied up during
the rush hours late today by a strike
of 150 employes on the boats. The
latest labor difficulty in this city re
sulted from the men's demand for
shorter hours and higher pay. , The
strike has no connection, it was said,
with the traction situation.
Thousands of commuters gathered
at the two Manhattan ferry stations
of the company, the- crowds over
flowing' the ferry- houses into the
streets, where a heavy rain was fall
ing. Not until police reserves were
called out did the commuters- abandon
their demand for boats. - They left
the city for their homes in New Jer-
I sev over roundabout routes.
grand chief of the Brotherhood of
is Severely
J&
The nominee was accompanied by
William M. Calder and Robert Bacon.
f"ecessfu,1,and defeated candidates for
tMi-aii oruaiuimi iiuiuilldtiuil.
Mr. Hughes reached Hornell so tired
of body and voice that he had a local
speaker address the audience in the
opera house here tonight in his place.
The nominee spoke a few words only
after his substitute had closed.
"Continuously during my terms of
executive responsibility in this state,"
Mr. Hughes said, "I sought to promote
the just interests of labor, and recom
mended every practicable measure to
.that end. It is true I did not always
agree with the measures that were
proposed. I will admit that cheerfully,
and I may state further that I did what
I knew my duty as governor involved
a principle which I should continue to
imply if I were invested with executive
responsibility."
NONE DISLOYAL
TQtOTEfORHI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Sept. 29.
President Wilson made it plain to
night that he wants no "disloyal"
Americans to vote for him. He ex
pressed indignation over a telegram
from Jeremiah A. O'Leary1, of New
York, president of ihe American
Truth Society, accusing him of l?ing
pro-British 'and saying he had failed
to obtain compliance with American
rights.
The president sent Mr. O'Leary a
short telegram which officials indi
cated Mr. Wilson had desired to put
in stronger language. His message
follows:
"Your telegram received. I would
feel deeply mortified to have you or
anybody like you vote for me. Since
you have access to many disloyal
Americans and I have not, I will ask
you to convey this message to them."
Mr. O'Leary's telegram, given out
by the president, follows:
"Again we greet you with a popu
lar disapproval of your pro-British
policies. Last year from the twenty
third New York congressional d,ot,
(Continued on Page Two
sisted when the three men went to
serve a warrant for his arrest on a
charge of stealing horses from the
Hopi Indians. During the struggle
with the Indians three shots were fired,
the third bullet killing Tin, according
to the testimony.
Walter Runke, superintendent of the
reservation, who also was indicted in
f - ronnection with the killing, was ;:r-
rested today on a charge of perjury in
connection with his testimony at the
trial yesterdnv. Runke said the charge
was "absurd."
Locomotive Engineers, in charge of
the work of this city.
The Amalgamated Association of
Street and Electric Railway Employes
today took steps to distribute strike
benefits among the striking car men,
it was announced by James H. Fahey,
general counsel of the association.
Sixteen persons were injured, one
seriously, in a rear-end collision be
tween two surface cars in the Bronx
this afternoon. One car was stand
ing still when the other, said to have
been operated bv strike breakers.
crashed into it. The motorman of
the rear car jumped from his post, it
is said, and disappeared.
Marked improvements in surface
cer traffic was reported today.
IN
WANTS
TIED UP,
US
New York Faces Danger
of Genuine Milk Famine
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 29. Three of the
largest mUk distributing companies in
this city admitted today that after to
morrow, when their contracts with
dairymen expire, they would be unable
to supply their customers. They pre
dicted a milk famine before the end
of next week unless means are found
to bring the farmers and dealers to
gether. The situation is the result of differ-
ences between city dealers and the
Criticized
SPEECH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, Sept. 29. (Via London.
Sept. 30.) Immediately on the heels of
the utterances of the imperial chancel
lor in the reichstag concerning the sub
marine campaign, the afternoon news
papers generally print strong criticisms
of the neutrality of the United States
based on the news of the death of the
American aviator, Kiffen Rockwell, and
the presence ot other American aviators
on the western front.
They connect this evidence of Amer
ican sympathy for the entente allies,
and the supplying of war materials by
firms in the United States as an indi
cation of the futility of concessions to
the American standpoint with regard
to submarines. They declare that these
facts show how American respect for
neutrality is vanishing and how Amer
ica is misusing the present form of
submarine warfare to cover the active
participation of American concerns in
the war on the side of the entente
allies.
The speech of Dr. von Bethmann
Hollweg, the imperial chancellor, in the
reichstag, meets with a mixed reception
in the newspapers, the feeling being
variously expressed that he placed such
restraint on himself that his utterances
lacked definiteness.
The conservatives, for example, ask
pointedly whether his sharp words
against England and his declaration
that the statesman should be hanged
who admits adopting every possible
means to defeat Great Britain signifies
that Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg is
willing to resume the submarine war
fare, though they themselves assume
that the contrary is the case.
The conservatives also note that a
number of points were untouched by
the chancellor, which many of them
wished to hear discussed. All the
newspapers, except the Vorwartz, are
gratified that the chancellor made no
new peace overtures. General approval
is given of Dr. von Bethmann-Holl-weg's
emphasizing of the -statement
that England is Germany's chief foe.
Says Little New
LONDON. Sept. 30. All the morn
ing newspapers devote a major part of
their editorial space to a discussion of
the speech of Imperial Chancellor yon
Bethmann-Hollweg in the reichstag,
contrasting its mild tone with former
utterances. The editorials all assert
that aside from the attacks on England
the chancellor said little that was new
and perhaps disappointed those who
expected him to make more peace
overtures.
The address of Chancellor von
Bethmann-Hollweg is more remarkable
for what is omitted than for what is
said, according to Lord Robert Cecil,
minister of war trade, who, in discuss
ing the speech with the Associated
Press today, declared the most signi
ficant fact in connection with the
chancellor's utterance was his failure
to mention Belgium. Lord Robert said :
"There is a very definite change in
the tone of the speech over the pre-
vious efforts of the chancellor. The
talk of a complete German victory is
entirely absent. Another remarkable
thing was that there was not a word
about Belgium. The significance of
this is probably that he was unable to
say anything about Belgium, as his
listeners can be assumed to be th
whole world and he was bound to of
fend a section of it if Belgium was
mentioned. And equally he would of
fend his own people if he expressed a
determination to give up that country.
"Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg's de
nunciation of England contained noth
ing really new. It was merely the old
trick of attempting to convince our
allies that we are trading on their ef
forts and bleeding them to death in the
process, but recent events on the
Somme 'iught to convince him of his
error. The idea that we want world
supremacy is fantastic"
Discussing this phase of the chancel
lor's speech. Lord Robert declared:
""u will note that in this race for
cnnn rcial supremacy England is the
uhief opponent to be feared, the United
being left out altogether."
L rd Robert continued:
""1 tote in the portion of the speech
levc-:-d to efforts for peace that my
name :s used, but I cannot understand
his complaint. That Germany was once
ready for peace means nothing, as
nearly everybody is always ready for
peace on his own terms. The Germans
are ready not for peace, but for a
truce to enable them to prepare to en
force their own terms on the world.
There will be no peace so long as Ger
many is content to be ruled by a mili
tary caste."
Lord Robert stated that he believed
the German imperial chancellor was
sincere in his declaration that Germany
(Continued on Page Two)
dairymen'8 league which supplies tho
city with milk. The league for which
John J. Dillon, state commissioner of
foods and markets, Is acting as agent,
demands one cent a quart more than
the dealers have been paying under the
contracts which expire tomorrow.
The companies refuse to deal with
the league or with Mr. Dillon, declar
ing they will make their terms with the
individual farmers and intimating that
the increase of one cent a quart would
be granted under these conditions.
N
COMES COMMENT
