SEP
30
1916
o
REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN
ttlll Open in Till- I'll) mm Thiiixlin.
Ortiihcr . "Inii Hun. Kiln In r.
Morrow Mill Dcliwr an Ad
ilrcs In l In- CMd II iii.
I'laiiH have lieen mail)' for Hip open
ing of the Republican Campaign in
tli Is county on next Thursday .night
when Hon, Edwin f. Morrow of Som
erset will Address the Republicans of
Mason county In the Courthouse.
I'lans have been in I lie making for
speaker for the opening in this
county for some time and it was but
yesterday that County Chairman Ma
thews learned of the choice for this
city. He at once got busy to adver
tise the speech of Mr. Morrow und ti
make ready for the event
Miss Irene Ollcher entertained nt
the home of Mr and Mrs J. F. Hum
tiicrs last evening with a party to a
number of her friends. Dancing and
ranis were the order of the evening.
BOARD OF EDUCATION
Hold Short, M Interesting Session In
the lliffh School liiilldimr l.ii-t
Erenlng Night School Prop,
tivltlon Doubtful.
The regular monthly session of the
Roan of Education of the Public
Schools wan held last evening in the
i High School building. A rather short
' but interesting meeting was held
; Nine members of the board were pres-
Hon. Kdwin P. Morrow is MM of the nt.
most noted Republican speakers In j The superintendent's replrt for th"
the atate and early after the nomlna-, first month contained some very Inter -Hon
of Justice Hughes he announced eating figures on the enrollment for
that he would support the Republican ; the opening month. His report show
nominee for the Presidency. He has pd 110 pupils enrolled as compared
been much In demand In this state and '1 7 in 1915. 933 In 1914 and 970 in
elsewhere and the Republicans or this, 1913. A gain of 18 pupils was made
county are indeed fortunate to be ablei'n the grade schools of the city. Two
to secure this sllver-tounged orator to hundred and seventeen have been en
open the campaign for them. Mr. Mor-1 rolled In the High School, the average
row was present in this city last fall j attendance being 214. The Senior
when running for governor of the ( Class of the High School this year
state, to which position he was defeat-' boasts of 60 members, a dozen more
ed by only a few hundred votes, than ever before.
Those who heard him talk at that time! Regarding the matter of the High
will be more than pleased to hear him School, the Hoard did not feel that
again and he will doubtless be greet- they would be willing to give light
ed by a large audience. on(! 'ufi' to conduct the school unless
Mason county this fall shows the In- a claB" f twenty could be secured,
dlcatlon of going Republican from the They would be willing, however, if
reports we have received from various that number should be obtained t j
parts. While the vote In the primaries have the class formed and carry on a
was exceedingly light, yet it was 1 rrKular nKnt school. Further an
enough to make the leaders of the op- nouncements of this will be made in
position party open their eyes, mot ' Monday's ledger.
only the county, but the entire state Th'1 remainder of the session was
may give its vote to Hughes this fall Bnent 1,1 discussing the crowded condl
Certainly, Wilson will have no walk- ,ion of ,h third and fourth grade room
away In the commonwealth. ln the High School building. Seats
All loyal Republicans are urged to are not available for two scnolarn
come out and hear Morrow on next and there is no place In the room to
Thursday night. All are invited BUT additional seats. No definite con-
DON'T FORGET TO REGISTER ON elusion was reached for the matter for
NEXT TUESDAY ln'8 term of school and ample provls-
ion will be made for it at the begln-
The time of evening service at Uie ning of the second semester.
Church of the Nativity bus been Then' being no further business Un
changed from 7 to TfW o'clock. ' Board adjohrned.
I In- Mineral of the Late Dr. Maurice
Waller, Who Died at the Home of
HIS Sister In Chicago, Ill,
Tnesday -Bnrled In Mays
i Hie Cemetery.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car
Good Order For
Fall.
in
Parts and Sup
ples Cars For Hire
IjOODpYEAR
AKNON.OHIO
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
RioiCuti v the No-Him -Cot feature.
Blowouts by the "On-Ah" cure.
Loot Tread by lUI nib! - r rlvett.
Iruccurily l y J.ti brai.tt-1 phtno wirea.
Punctures and Skiddiny - l y t to cku.Ue-
thlck All-Weather tread.
The funeral of Dr. Maurice Waller
was held In the First Presbyterian
Church yesterday afternoon.- the body
of the beloved minister having arrived
at 10 o'clock in the mornln. The bur
ial was made In the Maysville ceme
tery. A large number of the friends and
admirers of Dr. Waller gathered at
the church to pay a silent but. personal
tribute to his life. Huge banks of
flowers told mutely the esteem ln
which he was held and though the au
dience was composed almost entirely
(if tin- older residents of the city and
county it showed that his good was
not to be Interred with his bones. Dr.
John Barbour, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, assisted by Rev.
H. Kerr Taylor of the Central Presby
terian Church and Rev. Kmll Bauer
man of Flemingsburg, conducted the
funeral ceremony Dr. liarbour paid
a splendid tribute to the life of Dr.
Waller, his connection with the old
First Church and spoke earnestly of
his Christian life and his work for his
Master.
The pallbearers were Messrs. Pax
ton Marshall, Ben Marshall. John
Chambers, Frank Ellison. J. Foster
Barbour and R. A. Cochran. During
the removal of the body from the
church the bell tolled In respect to the
dead. A quartet composed of Miss
Mary Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. J. Foster
Barbour and Mr. R. A. Cochran ren
dered two beautiful hymns. The Inter
ment was made In the Maysville Ceme
tery. A short service at the grave was
conducted by Dr. Harbour.
The following were the visitors from
a distauce to attend the funeral ol
Dr. Waller:
Mr. and Mrs. Ed Waller, Mrs. Judith
Johnson. Miss Delle Waller. MIbh 1.11-
I io Waller of Chicago; Rev. James
Waller of Kenova, W. Va.; Mrs. Garnls
Hunter of Harrodsburg, Ky.; Miss
Phoebe Waller of New York; Mr. and
Mrs. Shelby Blatterman of the, coun
ty; Mr. and Mrs. John Murray and
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Ellison of Man
chester, Dr. A. N. Ellis of Aberdeen
and Mr. Thomas Steele Andrews of
Flemingsburg.
KOTICI
OF hIM.s DAKillTKKK
MEETING
The Kings Daughters of the Epis
copal Church will meet on Monday
afternoon at the residence of Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Power, near Aberdeen. The
member") of the organization are ask
ed to be at the ferry wharf at 2
o'clock on that afternoon, as a vehicle
will be waiting on the Ohio side of the
river to take those, who do not care
to walk to the residence.
COUHCH MEETING
The Thrifty Farmer j
Keeps His Eye Pealed" For
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE
FARM MACHINERY
and that's the kind of man we cater to.
The New Peoria Drill is without a doubt
the most complete farm machine of its
kind on the market today, and we want
you to see it. It opens the furrow, drops
the seed at the bot.om, and brings you a
better and bigger yield.
Don't forget the name, "New Peoria,"
and that it is sold by
MIKE BROWN
"The Square Deal Man"
City Council met In a special meet
ing last evening in tho Council Cham
ber to discuss the telephone franchise
question. A twenty your franchise Is
asked for by the telephone company
with the privilege of changing the
rates three times, one when 500 sub
scribers are reached, one when J00
are reached and one when 1200. No
action was taken on the matter by the
council.
MKS. TEKRAM E MAl'KEY
Mrs. Terrance Mackey died at the
home of her parents on ForeBt avenue
this morning at S o'clock after an ill
ness of several months. Mrs. Mackey
was 28 years of age having been born
in this county iu 1888. She is survived
by her husband, father and three
brothers, George. Fred and Anthony
Dlener of this city. The funeral will
lie held Monday morning.
ENJOY HALE HOLIIIAY
Many of the students of the High
School Department of the city schools
enjoyed a half holiday yesterday after
noon as a result of good behaviour
during the preceding month. Only a
few were compelled to remain. This
idea has proven very popular with the
students and they keep very good or
der throughout the mouth lu order to
obtain the half holiday.
Mr Andy Hwlce la in quite a serloiM
condition from a paralytic stroke, at
thi- home of his niece, Mrs. Amos Mc-
1-ilMlillll, of West Second street
Doubts are entertained for his recov
ery. This is the second stroke Mr.
Swlco has had within a very short
time
IrEDJAYES
lletter Known as the "Ureased Pig"
Ohen a Term of Three Years In
the Penitentiary Yesterday
r'or Obtaining; Money I'll,
der Ealse Pretenses -Other
Trials for
ly.
lu the Mason Circuit Court yeeter
dny. Fred Hayes, better known as the
"Creased Pig," was tried on a charge
of obtaining money under false pre
tenses and sentenced to a term of
three years In the penitentiary.
Some time ago Hayes went to the
home of Mrs. Frances In Eastland and.
r-'presentlng himself as a collector for
the Indian Motorcycle and Bicycle Co
obtained $2.50 from Mrs. Frances on a
bicycle her son had purchased from
these people on the installment plan
Mrs. Frances became suspicious and
asked her son to see If the money hail
been credited by the firm. He found
out that Hayes was not a collector the
firm and was an iniposter. When tried
Hayes said that the boy had owed him
some money and that this was the only
way of obtaining It. When Hayes wat
approached by Officer Tolle to mak.
the arrest, he ran but th policeman
hit him with his club and was IBM
enabled to bring him to the court.
This voung man h; f been a sourrr
o' trouble to the local officers for somr
time und on several occasions they
have had a hard time in catching hln
His attorney produced a motion In
court for suspended Judgment which
was ordered filed.
Harry llenaker. the Cyuthlana mer
chant who was sentenced to the penl-
tentiary for an Indefinite term of
from two to three years, yesterdnv i
through his attorney Hon. A. D. Cole,
produced a motion for a new trial.!
which was ordered filed.
Dr. William I'lerson. the man, who
n presenting himself as a veterinary;
IttlfMS, who fleeced the DuVW'IlM am'
later our Mayor and who attempted to'
take in the people of Y'anceburg also,;
was sentenced to the penitentiary fori
a four year term by the court yesterday.
M,, in,. Republicans who want l
wife for Prcldent In Nmcmber ninM
regis) iv
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3,
at their regular pulling plarei In the
city. There will he hut one regular J
n tfMr.it Ion day Tuexdny, October .Id. I
Everj toter must register, whether he
has registered before or not. Young j
men who will be of age Nowmhor 7th, i
will be permitted to nirl-t. r.
:
Kilitor of tli Ijfiliri'r
Please .ve the Hicrley Confectionery change their ad in
tli- spnec below. , ,w nil,,,,! HOT ROUP fori change t
M. F. WILLIAMS & COMPANY
HEADQUARTERS FOR COUOH MEDICINE. LAXATIVE
QUININE, GRIP TABLETS, ETC.
n
v
M
S
NOTICE
All members of the Knights of
Pythias, who expect to make the trip
to Lexington tomorrow must be at the
CMNIa Hall at 7 o'clock to be ar
ranged In the autoes to start at 7:15.
See Us About Your Eyes
We give you honest advice, QUAL
ITY SERVICE and SATISFACTION.
Broken lenses duplicated.
Or, It. Kahn of Cincinnati on Monday
Or. George Oevine Ever; Uay.
Optometrists and Opticians.
O Koefe Building.
Creams and Ices
If Yon Are a Sufferer
From the Heat, Try Our
BIERLEY'B CONFECTIONERY
West Side.
''!i Market Street
A HANDSOME POKCH
adds immensely to the appearance of
a house and the comfort and satlsfac
tion of the occupaats. To know how
easily it can be had Just come and
look over our mill-worked columns,
railings, etc., all so perfectly made and
adjusted that you can put them up
yourself, and the cost is so little!
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone 51.
I V. McLaughlin. L. a. Behan.
THE FALL "DRESS UP" CAMPAIGN
Nation Wide September 30th-October 14th
This is Dress I'p Week the country over. The time when millions of men pause to check up their ap
pearance, check up yours, too. now.
IMPRESSIONS EIHST OE EAST -CO! XT EOR MICH IN THIS VOKU -Your clothe will help or
mar a "fiirst impression" on somebody.
But don't don't think the slogan "Dress Up" means frills and fuslness. No Bir, that's not the Idea. It's !
simply this: This is the best time to think of putting aside those clothes that have done summer duty. I
Yes, they do look a bit off. Then this is tile time to dress up.
Obey That Impulse
We have SUITS Hint win your favor that are instautly first choice for Btyle; just the sort to make
you think that this "DRESS CP" idea is a good one. I5, HA
Dress Pp In new shirts-smart ties fall hats-all in vast assortments of styles and colorings decided
ly correct.
D HECHINGER & CO.
Is . sfjlssi Mfgim aamfjasss
SILK PETTICOATS $3 TO $5
Providing the correct foundation for the winter silhouette are the attractive
looking petticoats in black and colors.
CUT OPEN A WARNER CORSET
BONING
Pull out file double DMltag SM how flexible it is.
CLASP
Test the clasp its strength insures a Rnj straight front.
INTERLINING-.
Sec the double interlinings that keep the bones from
punching through.
FABRIC
Feel the fabrics they do not stretch or tear wash
them as you will.
SHAPE
After wearing a Warner you will fully appreciate its
shape retaining qualities, which are unimpaired Ion?
after an ordinary corset would have to be discarded.
GrBSrSSt d not to rust, break or tear.
PRICES-! 1 TO
185S
1916
KID HOIL1.H m m. n uin
IIH. II Nt HOOL BI ILUING
IN
A new bollsr Is being placed In the
High School HuludiiiK by Mr. Larry
l.aiiafcls, ih, plumber. The old boil
hi has become damaged uud as repair
work would coat M much as a new
boiler It was decided to purchase a
new oie- It has about been installed.
MANY TAEK TBI!'
A large urowd of luurlsta made the
'Trip Arouud the World" lust avail
ing and the ladle of t Plrgt M K
Church, South, illtxj quit a sum
from the enurUiniuast This will
b pat In a fund to purchase an organ
for tat uburett.
ssJlpssjBaj;ssasasi l" Ar,mflr Af V"" Vt mam "vV'vVi. m$$ffmi
Saturday Will Be Red Letter Day
8
:
:
Double Stamp Day
Our Fall Stocks are now in fine shape, and we are prepared
to fit you out from head to foot. It will be a good day to buy
Suits, Coats, Dresses, Hats, Shoes and Underwear
We do not promise to duplicate any goods in stock at the
prices they are marked now.
