s hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhH
American Fcjrk Citizen
KuXlV AMERICAN FORK CITIZEN. BATURMYtSKlTKMHHU 30. 1910. Nt'MllBK 24 XI
psures Leasing Co.
Contracts For Power
ft AH POWER & LIGHT CO- WILL BUILD SIX OR EIGHT
KlE LINE TO SUPPLY POWER TO PACIFIC MINE
ANDMILL.
I probably tho most important pieces of news released in
I. timo wurf the announcement this week that the Fissures
ling Company had .signed a contract with the Utah Power
LJcbtCo. for the extension of its transmission lines to the
lie mine and mill in American Fork Canyon. The mill
Koff ncarinj? completion on Dutchman Flat one and a quarter
jo? below t lie mine.
R ' contract calls for tho complc.
H9 0r the line by November 1st, by
ft b ,me it q also counted that tho
ft be ready to so Into commission,
ftte plan' ls n" ,ln,lor covcr nml
ftnictalncry Is now on tho ground
ft being placed In position rapidly
H possible.
fte building of tho lino which will
ft, (rem tho Snako Creek plnnt
Hit miles away, will ennblo many
ir properties to get power and In.
ftise their deiclopmcnt. Tho Mln.
ft Flat and Red Cloud get power
ft the Mineral Flat Power plant
BSTATE GETS
OREJN TUNNEL
ft Board of Directors meeting of
ft Bay State .Mining Compnny was
ft In this city Monday. MMingor
ie Tjler was present and gnvo
.'ill report of conditions nt tho
ftjerty. Tito tunnel Is now In three
Hired and eighty feet In a forma.
ft that Is most promising. Ah tho
Hta lime Is broken down It is full
ft:; holes filled with dirt, u hand
ft;!e of which assayed 11.8 ounces
Htittr. Dcforo breaking into this
Bi4tlon-wo8rBbluo-llBiej-Thi
Hi-south (Issurc was cuta few feet
Hi ind drifting on it will be com.
fttcd.
HUrlft from the end of tho tunnel
)ta run GO feet and connection
ft with a wlnzo from another lev.
Ttis plies good air so that work
Ha now on can bo dono without
Hit; for the nlr to clear after ouch
ftl
Hie directors voted to erect nnoth.
Hs-.nkhouso and to fix up conditions
H&( mine ho us to continuo work
later, The company Is nbund
H'l financed for this purpose.
H o
Ins visit
I MAJOR EVANS
Hie board of directors of (ho Mn.
Eran mine enmo down from Salt
H" Sunday and paid tho property
ftWt, Manager Chailes llanUs has
Mnprosipei'ng in several placet.
H" fwn the ono whoro ho is sink.
F rtaft An excavation was wade
He ildo of the hill for a cabin. A
H-11 'on of one of tho directors j;ut.
H'el a pile of locks from lio o.v
H'Jtlon and with a liamor com.
ft' hreaklnc them. To tho an.
Hpfcment of the visitors n half of
HMag found to bo shipping ore.
'Major rx,ns has acres of this
MUnd hcn va tuio sourco Is lo.
the management says it will bo
'or tho big mlnPa of tno Blnt0i
ilBlNGHAWITAIINT
1 1 CANYON MINES
mts Tm 'I kins and I.osllo
ft ,y ' "" ham wont Hip tho
ft, o this tt,,,i Tn n Kt.solono en.
Hj '0- mm i,in(.i, H1I,jt, outfit
H "U equ ,. ,,, of mining tools
jM'mmenrc ,..,,. ,,, RUvor
rri '"' ' "hl,h ,hoy hnvo "
ft ."'' ' ' loentod under tho
ft!t ii "' '"'' of ,lie nB "oar
Htv9 Sll "u,ll eunyon.
ft ' " '"i'iT bus pioduced a
H:Ht " ","r ln111 oro' run.
ft., D """ .nid $200 por ton,
ftink" (lei"" "' llSH "" co f1
iv esiirr, Th. 0i0 B foun(l
M jm-iu ,,r Ulll nna (U(ut.
BJl iv, f'c !llr 'mm i-xiiPitB say tht.t
I "' V-' "' ' "r U"M' t0 ,llnk0
ftMn, 'r ",0 Tlu m,nors
H "tc 'ti nunio water hut
and the Kail-Kaglo operates its com.
pressor with an oil burning engine,
nnd these three properties nro the
only ones In the Canyon using pow.
or at present.
Recently tho Fissures Leasing Co.
mado a complete survey for a power
plant of its own to bo located nt
Holman's Flat. It was found that
tho present supply of water wns sum.
cent to generate all tho power need,
ed, but tho company was afraid that
when freezing weather camo this sup.
ply might be considerably diminished,
which mndo the other source tho more
reliable.
tho gasolene pump will easily tako
care of this.
Mr. Ho8klns was formcily suporln.
tendent of tlu Apex mine of Hlngham
nnd Mr. Mulkny was lease manager
for tho wimo pioperty. Associated
wltli them is Alma Uourne of thin city.
PARKER CASE
MOWN OUT
Pcoplo locally were much interested
when Judgo Whltccottcn and Grant
Dngcly commonccd suit against Coun
ty Attorney. Georgo II. Parker, form.
cTly'ofhlfrcftjrSfurntr silreKWl 'inW'sr
uso of stenographic funds. Doth
Whltccottcn Mid llngoly havo slneo
died, nnd now tho Supremo Couit
hands down n decision completely ex.
oncrntlng Mr. Parker.
Following Is a report on the enso
clipped fiom n recent Issue of tho'
Deserct Nows:
"Opinion in four cases weie handed
down by tho supremo court yesterday.
Chief among tho four was a per
emptory writ of prohibitum issued In
tho case or Georgo. I. Parker, ns conn,
ty nttornoy for Utah county, plaintiff,
against A. II. Morgan, ns Judgo of tho
Fourth judicial district court, prohl.,
biting Judge Moigan fiom further,
nrocoodings whcrln l'nrker is charg.
ed with collecting certain fees from
tho county.
The binount of theso foes, accord
ing to tho record, wns 22.Gr, and was
collected by Parker as money paid
by him for stenographer's services. Tho
siirpromo court held that tho fees
woio not. in its opinion, cither ex.
orbltnnt or illegal, and that the lower
court, whoso action looked toward
Parker's removal from office, bad no
Jurisdiction under tho stntuto upon
which tho accusation was based."
vMii:r. i.t.ts ;oi.n imi:.
Reports fiom tho woik being done
In tho 1-lvo Ynnkco by tho Green Leas.
Ing Co. nro that tho recent strlko Is
hold'n--' out with Indications that it w'll
soon bo added to tho rogular shipping
list. Tho pile of oro on tho dump is
being added to dnlly. a samplo of
which fcssayod gold 2 oz., copper 11
por cent, load U per cent and silver
10 ounces.
. o
ai.imm:.i:mimui: i.ixs contract
J. Will Knight. Lester Mangum.
Knlghtstnr .Toidan and Gecrgo Storrs
directors In tho Alplno Kmpiro visit-,
ed tho property early In the wcok
and oxprespod satisfaction with tho
condition of the property. They lot
n contract to drlvo a lower tunnel
to John T. Farror or Pinvo and P..
P. Carlyslo of Alplno. TJio woik
will ho prosecute! with vigor fiom
now on.
-
MMV I.IIIRARIA.N APi'OINTIM) .
Miss Margnrct lllackhuist is tho
now llbrnilnn In chnrgo of tho free
publlo library. Mrs. Proston who litis
been in chargo almost from tho first
opening Ims given most oxcollent sat.
Isfactlon und Is responsible for the
library's popularity
PACIFIC DECLARES "
FIRST DIVIDEND
I'mir 'IhoiiHiiud Dnllars Is paid Out lo
Stockluildrrx Vltli Promises of
-More Yet to Come.
Tho Pacific Mining Co. dcelnrcu
di!dcnd of ono cent a share or ap.
proximately $4,000 on its cnpltal stock.
Monday. This is tho first dividend In
its history, hut Is only the beginning
of what promises to be a regular
event, cither monthly or quai telly.
The leasers recently opened up what
Is thought to bo another body of tho
high grade copper oie that brings
$L000 per car. Parties who recently
visited tho property say thnt lead oro
of a shipping grade is exposed In sov.
oral openings, hut tho management
counts on Its biggest lovonucs coming
from tho vast quantities of low grado
oro of which it is said there Is a quart,
or of a million dollars worth now pll.
ed on tho dump. Ten per cent of this
will go to tho stockholders when it
has gone through tho mill.
Tho Pacific has been the most por.
slstently worked mine in tho canyon,
fltty.slv assessments weio laid nnd
collected beforo It wns taken over by
tho present leasors, but Indications
are that dividends of tho "Irish" kind
will now bo a thing of tho fast.
DEATH CLAIMS
JOSEPH BOLEY
Had Double Attack n Tjphuld and
Appendicitis.
Joseph Holey died at tho I '111 hos.
pltnl Sunday night. Ho had been suf
fering fiom an attack of typhoid fcv.
er for three weeks, when attacked
with a caso of appendicitis. Ho was
taken to tho hospital Friday for an
operation hut when tho surgeons mndo
tho incision they found thnt the np.
pcndixrhnd brokon and the auUm3
iMliWW'nilril .w IUV.1UIH , fr. AlUi'hcy
could do was to plnco in drain tubes
nnd wnlt for tho end.
Funeral services weie held In the
First Ward meeting house Wednes.
day afternoon with Ahrnm Greenwood
In charge. Tho singing was by tho
ward choir K. J. Seastrand gnvo
the opening prayer nnd James Mar
tin the closing ono. Mr. Mnitin also
sang n solo. Tho speakers wero Ab.
ram Greenwood and Almn Greenwood
who paid tribute to tho deceased's
honesty and his quiet lifts.
Mr. Holey wns a son of Henry and
Mary Holey, early pioneers of tills
city. He was born In this city about
forty years ago. Ho never mnrrlcd
but lived with ills mother who wns
a widow for innny years till her death
about five years ago. He followed
tho occupation of a farmer
LONE PINE WILL
COMMENCEOPERATIONS
Tho Lone Pino croup of claims lo.
catoJ In Porcupine Gulch will be de
veloped. A corjiorntlin with Isaac
Holey' of Salt Lake City at 'ts head
was formed this wock. M Holey
wan In town Tuesday locking for mln.
crs to send up to tho propoity. Ho
says th.'t tho deep tunnel will be
cleaned out. a drift run to its end and
an nn upralso male to connect with
tho wlnzo fiom t'.-o uppor or middle
tunnel. At tills point sonio fine oro
was encountoiod several years ago
anil the owners hope to open up n
largo body. Neighbor or tho Loim
Pino nio tho Major Hums and the
Comstoek properties.
o
CO.MSTOCIC IHMXCJ
ncYr.i.oi'MKYr worn,
A foico of minors tuo busy doing
development work on tho Comstoek
group In Poicupliie Gulch. This piop
erty has produced somo rich sliver,
lead oro though not In commercial
quantities. Tho men nro working In
n tunnel which shows some flno bra.
mldoB. Tho propoity adjoins tho Ma.
jor Hvmib and Lono line groups.
PKOYO HIVUH YVATIIH
IX LOCAL STHKAMS
Considerable discussion has been
created liecauao of tho City Council
granting tho Prove Illvor Rosorvolr
Co tho privilege or exchanging Us
Provo Uiver water ror American
Fork Canyon watci Lehl has been
& Love Letters I i
r: Y0JSJ10 LADIES DO YOU WANT TO WRITE A LETTER TO YOU SWEETHEART, 1H
2 W IE
ORJlYOUNG MEN DO YOU WANT TO WRITE A LETTER TO THE BEST GIRL ON IHflf
EARTH. H
WEjHAVE ALL KINDS OF PAPER AND ENVELOPES and WRITING MATERIAL. JH
?? e !H
S (f (L fl
T.L lfV Pens, Pencils and Pen- IhH
Nottf Books, Writing Tab- ---afe - WM
M , Pv'ifeRra.. holders, Inks, Mucilego
let? Theme Tablets, SMjjJ and Erasers, Dinner Bok-
Scratch Tablets, Composi- litSSSferiLl es, Folding Boxes, Candy, jH
tiaSfBooks. lfeMri Nuts' chowinff Gum m
S OilnLLAJNl Fountain Pens all sizes. Mm
II LINEN ft
20 per cent Saving! Is it Worth While? m
lSomo individuals go to Salt Lake to make their purchases; but we do not know why H
We have the ASSORTMENT We have the QUALITY Wc can savo you 20 per cent H
which is best To say, well I bought my coat in Salt Lake but I paid 20 per cent more H
forUt. Or to say I bought my coat at Chipman's, a better Coat and saved 20 per cent. il
YoujAnswer the Quccstion. fljH
Your time saved. Your fare saved. 20 per cent saved wt
IThore is simply no use going to Salt Lake to make your purchases. Build up your HH
own local people and enablo them to build you up.
Get your CONFERENCE SUIT or COAT before you go. Do not bo held up with Con- flft
ferejice prices. Salt Lake merchants are watching, waiting and preparing for you. B
CHIPMAN'S is tho place to trade CHIPMAN'S for Suits CHIPMAN'S for Furni- 1 H
ture. Steel Ranges, Heating Stoves, Carpets, Shoes, Clothing and Underwear. I uHj
m I IfH1
Chiimian's BigRed Store Lail
I AMERICAN FORK, UTAH "THE BUSINESS CENTER" 'Wk
1 r 11
making tho oxuhanage, but Its canjon
water having been shut off, tho High,
land farmers can only get fall irrlga.
Hon by oxchanslng with American
Fork. No ono is being Injured and
tho Highland farmers nro thus enab.
led to do their fall plowing.
WILL VOTE FOR
CARNEGIE LIBRARY
At tho City Council mooting Satur
day cionlng a committee from the
Civic Improvement Lenguo presented
a petition Hlgned by about 1(10 clti.
zons asking tho Council to call n spue,
ial election to voto on the question of
leveylng a half mill tax ror tho es.
tabllslnuent or u Carnegio Library In
American Fork. If the amount ask.
ed for Is voted, the Carnegie com
mittee will give tho city $8,000 with
which to erect n modoin llbiary
building While tho local commit,
too is confident of carrying the dec
Hon, they will probably not ask the
Council commltteo to whom tho mat.
tor was reforrcd, to run tho leectlon
till near tho beginning or tho now year.
The only other business of linpoit.
ance was tho decision to open a now
street In the northenst pait of town
and healing loports rrom the vailous
officials.
HOT W VTL'lt PLUXGi:
l'OII LAKH IIIISOHT.
T. J Chlpmnu. owner or tho I'tah ,
Lake Hosort, Is planning to build a
big hot water plunge 70 by 100 reot
It will bo lined with concrete nnd
heated artificially. Its location will
be near tho edgo of the Inko and east
or the pavilion. Woik on It will
piolmuly eommonee this rail and bo
comploted ready for next bmibod'h
bntblns Tho resort bad a prosper.
ohb biiHlnosB tho past spaeon and Mi
C'lilpman hopes to mnko it doubly pros, j
perous by adding a hot water open
air pliiDKn similar to tho one at Salt
nlr.
LVLIIYHODY SIIOI'LII ATTLM)
Mayor John Hunter has been or
riclally advised that the Calitornia (
representatives of the Arrowlieadj
i
Trail, which commences In Los Ango.
les nnd pusses through this city, will
bo in Amorlcnn Foik Tnesdny after,
noon nnd will meet with tho people.
The party Is coming In nutomoblles
and when their approach is near the
fire bell will bo rang so that tho clti
zens will know when to gather.
V. l'llIXT IIUTTIMI UFIAI'I'IIIIS.
c.vitn or thanks Wm
Mr. and Mrs. II. M. Shelley wish to rSlD
oxtend thanks lo nil who responded sHEi
In tho boicavcmont or their uncle, Ktlfl
Jnsoph Holey, also to tho speakers, H
singers, Pall.bearors andt o all of
those sending the beautiful floral H
orTerings. fHft
MIL II. M. SHKLLKY and FAMILY. B
. Sept. 28, 1010. H
I Plume Nnsiilch .1(11 Y. II. KiiKelinnu, Sec. ft Treas. H
Associated Consulting Engineers fl
our. siupn:u's ni:PAimii:vr (moociiiihs) H,
Ale you PAYING FitlOiailT ON WATKIt? Are your MOISTUUliS WmW
HXCKSSIVIC? Are your cais properly WHIGHKI) and CLHANISI) out 3MM
.it tho Sampler or Smelter? Aro you getting paid full value for your jjHH
oie. or aro you losing ore by excessive moisture nnd nnother portion !
by Improperly (M.KANICI) CAR. jjHI
Aio your settlements an piompt as they should bo? If not, let ' iH
us "Mooch" for you. Wo have competent men at tho various Sam. . BJ
piers nnd Smelters to see that our Client's ores nro correctly weighed HJ
uiiil sampled, thnt his ears aio clean when weighed light, nnd that !
In) gets i prompt and correct statement for bis oro. For this norvlca
and anything that may eomo up In Interest of shipper. Our charge is jHfl
Imsod on tonnage anil will bo furnished on application. We uro snvlng IHH
money for others, why not you? HH
CO.VSTItUCTlOX DLPAItT.ML.NT H
S. M. Morris HH
Doslmii-rs or Mine, Mill, Power Industrial Plants, Steel nnd Concrcto HH
Structures, HH
MIMXG HLPAHT.MLNT -H
W. II. Parker HH
Mine examinations and leports, mlnoraloglsts, oro shipper's lepicseu.
tallies sineltei settlements and oro contracts B
MLTALLDKiY AXI) CIIC.MISTItY HI
A. K. Custer HB
Met lli rgieal tcatliiK laborntoiles, practical mill tests of nil kinds, H
process Investigations, HjB
P. I'KltiLOT, Miuuiger- 002.110.1 I100LY 1ILOCK, SALT LAKH CITY. ' H
Bank of American Fork I
A Himh uf Sht'iijilli nnd Clinriic.lor
.' ,r;y'Si;&L'i CAPITAL AN PHOF1TS 19
ilffllGll amfflmlllAH lUHKCTOHS K
I (J ill 11 E H llttRVF ft
ilJlM"- ifl litilKKU Jnmos Chtpmnn, James Chtpman.Jr ft
-Vll'Qfisfejl tW'5 a' k' T,10"lt0- Thomas J. ft
'JVteirJTcrTr Hnrrntt, J. n. Halliday, J. ft
TBSESlW H. Gardner.'Stophon U ft
Chlpmau. fl
t
