0'' ST A "5
UNiVERSlTY
OCT 2 1916
LIBRARY
tl
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 24
CINCINNATI, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 30, 1916
One Dollar a Year
'ill
Jge abof ggd vo: ate
Herrick Against the Eight-Hour Day
Senator Pomerene Shows That All of Herrick' s Financial Backers Are Employers of Scabs,
and Like His Managers Are Enemies of Organized Labor, A Little Concise History
of How Herrick Carried Booze and Water At the Same Time and Thereby Started
The Dry Movement In Ohio.
The Democrats opened their cam
paign last Thursday at New Philadel
phia. As a member of the committee which
framed the Adamson bill, United States
Senator Pomerene contradicted the dec
laration of Mr. Hughes that the meas
ure was adopted without investigation
on the part of Congress, asserting that
every member in lioth branches, as well
as President Wilson, was aware of the
facts. It was recognized that if some
thing was not done there would be a
commerce-paralyzing strike, w h i c Ii
Hughes in turn would have criticized,
Pomerene said.
$$$$$$
Much of the address of Senator Pom
erene was devoted to the financial legis
lation of the Administration and a se
vere arraignment of Myron T. Herrick,
whose primary expenses he denounced
as extravagant and whose purpose in
candidacy was to get to the Senate in
order-to be useful to the banking inter
ests of the country. Reading of a letter
from a Cleveland banker approving his
candidacy unon this soecific account ere-
S&feT
ttA i- j
WiMlftSaWSr'
' ""Interests Handed Together."
From the records of the office of the
Secretary of State Senator Atlec Pom
erene sought to prove that special in
terests are banded together in an effort
to elect Myron T. Herrick to the Senate.
The iron and steel interests and bankers,
who desire the repeal of the Federal re
serve act and the power of centralized
money influences restored, were declared
by Pomerene to have furnished the im
mense campaign fund which Colonel
Herrick used in the primary canvass. In
this connection he read a letter written
by Thomas E. Monks, treasurer of the
Herrick Voters' League.
"Owing to the enactment of the Fed
eral reserve act and the strong possi
bility of many amendments whereby the
boai d expects state banks to become
members, it is important to have in Con
gress members who have knowledge of
the banking business," Monks said in his
letter to the bankers of Ohio.
"This is the reason," Pomerene de
clared, "why certain bankers in Ohio
contributed over $18,000 to bring about
Herrick's nomination. They want a
banker in the Senate to see that the
Federal reserve law, which prevented
the greatest panic the world ever saw
at the outbicak of the European war, is
amended in such a manner that it will
restore Wall strcets's control over the
finances of the country. If experience
demonstrates that amendments to this
law arc necessary, in my humble judg
ment it should be amended by its friends
and not by its enemies. I am proud of
the fact that I, as a member of the Com
mittee on Hanking and Currency of the
United States Senate, helped to formu
late and enact this law, and I consecrate
myself here and now to protect it so
long as I am permitted to remain in the
Senate.".
$$$$$$
Refers to Lorlmcr "Deal."
Respecting the activity of iron and
steel interests Pomerene read a letter
written by John A. Penton, of Cleve
land, and said the Lumber Trust put
through the election of Lorimer from
Illinois. The Senator prided himself on
the fact that he voted for Lorimer's
expulsion. Continuing, he said :
"I do not believe that the majority of
the bankers and steel men of Ohio arc
in favor of the methods adopted by Mr.
Hcrrickand his friends to procure his
nomination and election. I know that I
have many warm personal friends
among the bankers of the state, who
have assured me that they favor the
Federal reserve law and appreciate my
services in bringing about the enactment
of this law. the Federal trade commis-
vj-j;,.-3.. a L K.?.,
nnnHHpHUHHiHHHupi;
HON. E. C.
Attorney General of Ohio and Republican Candidate for Re-Elcctlon.
Mr. Turner is the one man in the Willis administration that stood
between Governor Willis and the preservation of the Workmen's Com
pensation Aet, mid thereby prevented "Ills Fraudulency" from making
good his promises to the Insurance Trust.
Turner says: "Taggert hud no right to destroy the Workmen's Com
pensation Aet by Issuing licenses to liability companies." Uut Willis
praises Taggert's act.
sion law, a tariff commission, and the
other laws which this Administration
has enacted in behalf of business.
While J. A. Campbell, of Youngstown,
head of one of the big steel companies
of the Mahoning Valley, and Harry
Ross Jones, of the United Steel Com
pany of Canton, contributed to the Her
rick Voters' League, it is my judgment
that the rreater number of the men in
the great steel and iron industry are not
unmindful of the great accomplishments
of this Administration in freeing busi
ness so tlirt America may be able to lead
the world in commerce at the close of
the present war."
$$$$$$
Herrick's Dry Iteeord.
The AmocATi: received a letter from
one of the biggest brewers in the State
of Ohio who commended the paper upon
its fight against Myron T." Herrick.
Among other things the brewer recalled
the fact that Herrick's duplicity is the
direct cause of the. wet and dry of to
day and we reprint a part of Ins letter,
so that Herrick can not profit by the
mischief that he has caused. The brewer
says :
$$$$$$
"Myron T. Herrick, the Republican
candidate for United States Senator, is
at his old game of trying to carry water
on both shoulders. When he was Gov
ernor of Ohio he broke his pledge to
those who had elected him, and started
the agitation which is not jet ended. As
a result of this broken pledge, Herrick
was the first Republican candidate for
Governor in Ohio defeated since I88U.
'Ht&i
TURNER
"In the campaign of 1903 it is known
on reliable information that Herrick,
Mark Hanna, and two representatives of
the liberal interests of the state, met in
the Perrv-Paync Building, Cleveland,
Ohio, to discuss Herrick's attitude on
liquor legislation. At this meeting Mr.
Herrick gave his pledge against any re
strictive liquor legislation in the forth
coming session of the legislature. With
this pledge fresh in mind, another ar
rangement was entered into, whereby
the administration support was to be
given to the local option bill, later to be
introduced. The bill was introduced, but
the anti-liberal forces got away from
Governor Herrick and passed a more
stringent and unreasonable bill than had
been agreed upon. Thereupon Mr. Her
rick was caught between two mill stones.
In the passage of the Bannock bill, he
had proven himself false to his pledge
to the litbcral interests. Caught in the
jam, and wildly seeking to reinstate
himself, he vetoed the bill, because he
needed the support of the liberal votes.
The result was that neither the "wets"
or "drys" longer had any faitli in him.
$$$$$$
"This attitude of Governor Herrick
was characteristic. He is never known
to be unequivocally for any principle.
In an attempt to take all things to him
self, he is forced to double dealing, and
his promises mean nothing.
$$$$$$
"In the recent primary campaign he
was granted the support of the liberals
in Hamilton County. After the election
it was announced that he had given a
pledge to the anti-liberal league to vote
for national prohibition. Which pledge
is he going to keep?"
The Building Trades Council
Hold Regular Meeting. Slate and Tile Roofers Seated.
Herbert Will Act As Business Agent During Cullen's
Absence. Routine Business Transacted.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
President Jos. A. Cullen.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Credentials from the Slate and Tile
Roofers, Local No. 2", issued in the
names of J. Knapp, Wm. Ortwein and
S. Specht, were read and adopted. The
brothers being present, they were obli
gated and seated.
A committee of iron workers com
posed of John Luschingcr, Anthony
Roettinger and Chas. McCarthy address
ed the Council.
Could we offer any better reason why
tnic m mint Ann nlri: crinli Irl rn nnf Aitnn ? .-
Vote for a man like Pomerene, whose
record shows that lie voted against na
tional prohibition and the ,Webb-Kcnyon
bill, thereby saving jour "business from
destruction.
MAY START UNION HANK.
San Francisco, Cal. Serious consid
eration is being given to the question
of establishing a bank to be controlled
by the trades unions of this city in the
near future. Investigations hae been
made that partially justifies such a moe
and many of the leaders are favorable
to such a move.
Dibcussiim the subject, Supervisor An
drew J. Gallagher, with whom the idea
originated, says "For some time past
I have been giving serious thought to
the establishment of a trade union bank
in San Fiancisro. I have talked the
matter over with a number of local la
bor men, state officials and a prominent
banker of this city, all of whom think
the plan feasible. They are unanimous
in the opinion that such a bank should
be established for the protection of the
labor movement, particularly in times ,
of industrial strife. I may shortly pre-j
sent a concrete proposition to the San,
Francisco Labor Council.
"It is a matter of record that during ,
the past some of the banks have been
used against the union during strikes
and lock-outs. Certain banks have re
fused to loan money to the unions, and,
on the other hand, have loaned money
to the enemies of labor. This has been
done by banks in which some of the la
bor unions had deposits."
CAN'T TAX ROCKEFELLER FUND
New York. The surrogate court has
ruled that Rockefeller's $100,000,000
foundation is a charitable institution and
cannot be taxed. State Controller Travis
will appeal the decision. He insists that
under this ruling the Rockefellers, fath
er and son, could turn over their billion
dollar fortune to the foundation and
thus escape taxation. The Rockefeller
family controls the foundation's board
of trustees.
The foundation has been repeatedly
attacked as a colossal attempt to control
many activities, including education and
free thought, under the guise of "char
ity" and that because of its extended
scope it should be controlled by law.
MACHINISTS' GREAT GAIN.
Philadelphia. The Midvale Steel
Works has granted the eight-hour day
to its machinists and these craftsmen,
who called a general eight-hour strike
last July, have scored a tremendous suc
cess, as the Midvale plant is one of the
largest in the country.
Business Agent Cullen made a lengthy
report, full of interesting and instructive
matter, which, upon motion, was re
ceived and filed.
.All trades reported business good.
Roy Herbert was elected to act as
business agent of the Council during
the absence of Brother Cullen, who goes
to the Ohio State Building Council.
The minutes of the Board of Business
Agents were read and adopted.
There being no further business, the
Council adjourned to meet next Thurs
day night.
ROADS WANT TO UNLOAD.
!S!S!
ant secretary of labor, spoke at the La
bor day celebration in this city. In a
local paper he is quoted as saving that
the railroads would like to unload on the
government right now,
"If, after looting the companies, as
was done in the Rock Island, the 'Frisco
and the New York, New Ha en & Hart
ford, the financial interests can make a
final turn and unload their properties
upon the government before this valua
tion is made, it will be the finest instance
of turning a jack from the bottom that
has ever been done," he said.
"The railroads have persistently given
a false impression of the demands of
the trainmen. It is simply a matter of
making faster time, so that trains may
go 100 miles in eight hours instead of 10
hours. The railroad men do not want
the extra money, it's eight hours they
want."
UNIONISTS NOT LAW BREAKERS
San Francisco. The chamber of com
merce is conducting a non-union shop
campaign, which it has labeled "law and
order and the open shop." At a ban
quet given by this organization Vice
President Lynch of the University of
California was one of the speakers and
said he was asked to debate the present
stand of the chamber with a trade union
ist. "I refused," said Vice-President Lynch.
"I said we stood for nothing but the
enforcement of law and I would not in
sult this labor leader by assuming that
he was against law and order."
STRIKE THUG RUNS AMUCK.
Oglesby, III. George McKenny, a
Chicago thug and strike-breaker, em
ployed by cement companies, was in
stantly killed by a police officer last week.
McKenny was evidently carry ing out the
policy of employers to make all the
trouble possible and left the mill and
came upon the streets with drawn re
volver. A police official attempted to
arrest him. The thug fired once, the
bullet grazing the policeman. The latter
then opened fire and instantly killed the
desperado.
TO PROBE SHINGLE INDUSTRY.
Olyinpia, Wash. The shingle industry
of this State will be probed as the re
sult of statements made by President
Marsh of the State Federation of labor
at the annual convention in Everett The
movement will be aided by the Shingle
Weavers' union, whose officers say that
these workers, as a class, are afflicted
with throat and lung troubles, because of
poisonous dust.
