NOW OR NEVER, LAST CALL
Romc'i legislative schemes can be do
eated and American ideals and institu
tions preserved by defeating the nanal
politicians. Itisuptoyou to make sure that we knowabout each Romanist candidate in YOUR
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT. Do not let one escape. Mail your letters containing in
formation about candidates not later than Thursday noon, October 5. That number of The
Menace will appear on October 21, (not on Oct. 14), and will be the enlichteninginfluencc to
millions of readers, will tell them which candidates arc subservient to Rome and vnich are not.
Place your bundle order early. INVESTIGATE! REPORT! VOTE! HURRY!
SUkM0, tttc
kAtJXIXIXZXZXZxXXXXZXXXXXZX
S pjiiL T, . , JT'yUm! ThU It Number 284 3
THEMftACE
THREATENED BY ROMISH BLACK HAND
Modern Inquisition Busy in Hew York State Murder and Burning the
Penalty Unless Convert Returns to Church in Which He Was Born
Papist Dupe's Stupid Threats Reveal Thoughts of His Kind Con
cerning Other Matters of Public and Political Nature
IIE following letter, if it be proper to call
it such, tit mailed t Ogdcnburg, N. Yn
at 5:30 p. July 1!. 1 y 1 G ; and wa re
ceived bv the Rev." J. S. Miller, pastor f
the Fint Congregational hurth, at Lir.lx.ri, N.
Y., on the followjnc day. Read it fur the revela
tion it contains. Meditate on it threat of araou
auJ Murder; assimilate its expression of ignorant
hatred; and then realiie, a you must, that thi
U the fruit of popery the product of Roman
Catholic culture, and the logical result of papal
teaching, priestly rreai hment, and papist prai-
ticc. A photographic reproduction of the letter
it shown elsewhere on thit page; but, for the
reader' convenience, it is copied in type a fol
lows: Og Uoburj, N. Y.
Rev Joha Miller
Dear Pit You Ilava lakrn Harry Doyle away from
Itii own rburrh he ia a Catholic by iiirta whea a eamr
Hera truxa Morritburg Ontario at want yon to Lrt llarrr
go ti Ids awn rburrh aal "t go to the leil ehun-a
we are rathulir aad w mrin HuMneaa with rout church
if you dont Lintel we Hum your rhurrh down ia ahe are!
hoot Harry myl d.a.l if we grt our llaad on Him
we got tnra of the Catholic Cburrb watching for Kin
Hit Mother want Him to Keep in the Catholic rhurfl
the wmte to father Kitti about it ami father Kitfi ral
on Harry tha Catholic ia getting la I'ouer all they rat
if Catholic grt in the White House at Wathingtm
yuu ehrmtiaa a Buffer we llura you at the Plait Hun
;our llomra ami rhurrh for w Catholic are going t
rule the day be fort maay year you had no Himm
coating Harry away from Hit oa church and if w.
Catholic grt our Hand oa Harry Doyle we are aatrhini
for II im at night Ho wa eaa get Him you rhrittlan devil'
will never e Harry acaia at will murder Him vni
People at grt the catbolie rhurrh angry at you wt llat
you christian for Coaling Harry away we catholic i
all going to Help ua to get Harry and thea Hi Blood
very strong In Ogdeaburg aad other I lace and the;
will bo shed.
Harry will ant know when he go away any night what
minute a Hand will b Place on Hint w will watch
North Corner very close om night
Just remember we are very Wrong Catholic of
Oyilrnburg aad it writtea by Catholic of Ogdcsburg.
N. Y.
w Catholic.
rVi Harry I a dead man if we get bim for leaving the
Holy Catholic church
We cannot blume our readers if they at first
1oult the reality of such a stupid cominunii-u-tioti;
hut we have the proof in the letter it If.
in the envelope that enclosed it, in the statements
of the Iter. Miller, of Ifarry Doylo, and of numer
ous people living at Lisbon who certify to the
fuels and circumstances. Harry Doyle make tlx
following sworn statement under (Into of Lisbon
N. Y., Sept. 7, 1'JIG:
t came to this tow a from Aulttvillc, Ontario, Canada ;
and, without any urging, I j"inrd tba first Conrcga.
tional church at Lisbon. Hov. Kitts, ator of tb
lioman Catholic church, called on me; ami 1 simply and
flatly refused to go or have anything to do with him oi
bit rhun-h brcaute I know it m I lraud from ttart to
end.
(Signed) Harbt Dotli.
The following statement, also sworn to before
a notary public at Lisbon, N. i., on Sept. 7.
J91G, is made, by the Her. J. S. Miller, pastor of
the First Congregational church of that city:
About two year ago last April. Harry loylo came
to work on tha farm for Itoval Sheldon. The aecoml
Sunday he came to the rhurih where I am pastor an. I
hat been a constant attendant at all the servicet ever
since. Last Kaster be joined the church on ronfesaion
tif faith.
He bat not been urged to do this; but he it intrlli
pent and, of hit own free will, came to ua. On J til
ith I received thin letter. I have not persecuted the
Catholics or preached about them, but ! know them.
(Signed) J. 8. Millib.
Potior Futt Conyrryational Church.
Xine citizens of Lisbon, X. Y., or vicinity,
also join in the following declaration:
We, the nndertigned, know l'arry Dovle. He rame
from Canada, was born and reared in th Catholic church,
but, after coming to New York, derided to join a 1'rot
estant rhurrh and did to. We umlerstand that be hat
been made the victim of direful threat by pertont claim
ing to be Catholirt who threaten hia life unlet be re
turnt to the Catholic churrh. We alto understand that
the Catholin priest baa labored with him, trying to get
bun to co bark to the Catholic rhurrh but be hut rvf umm
to do so, and that the Kev. J. t. Miller, pastor of the
Jirtl longrecational rhurrh, the fhureh of which Harry
Itoyle i a member, hat received a threatening letter
Intimating that hia church will be burned if llarrr
Doyle doea not return to the Human Catholic church.
(Signed) G. W. BaStok, Mss. J. D. Mooaa, Msa
r. a. Ltti.i. j. n. Mooar, Hsv. J. 8. MiLLta, Msa. J. h.
Muxta, It. B. Suilton, O. D. Sueltok, Maa. K. b.
bUlLTOK.
The facts, as set forth in this letter and these
affidavits, amount to this: that Harrv Ikivle wa
born and reared a Homan Catholic in Canada:
that upon removal from Canada to the State of
2vcw xork he joined the Congregational church
without solicitation but because of his .n choice
and upon his own initiative: that he was vjited
by the local priest and urged to give up his new
affiliation ana return to the so-called church of
Pome; that he positively refused to do so, and as
result tne rrotosiam pastor ot tne church to
which he belongs has received the letter which is
printed above, and a photographic copy of which
appears on this page together with a like repro
duction of the envelope in which it was mailed.
What is its significance? Fir-t, that we here
have another instance of papist lawlessness;
second, thit the papist perpetrator is grossly ig
norant and brutal; third, that in writing this
threatening letter, he was working with lioman
Catholic priest to achieve a purpose common to
the priest and writer; fourth, that this attempt
to terrify Doyle at. J lii Protestant friends by
threat of armn and murder i practically a con
tinuation of the media al Inquisition when here
tut aire burned and murdered for the name pur
!; and fifth, that the fanatical following of
the papal system are as truly "alwavs the eame'
a the tcadiings of the alleged church to which
they are attached.
It reveals the kind and quality of the inspira
tion that papists receive from their ecclesiastical,
tuperiors and from papal teat hing. This it the,
fruit of what it leaders are teaching in the Dame,
of religion. It i . the result, the product, the yield I
of the papal propaganda carried on in this coun-
try under the favor of freedom from taxation and
unwise encouragement from numerous sources.
It may be said that this was probably some
one ignoramus of low moral quality, and that
ther pspists should not be blamed for his ex
ceptional art Hut is his art exceptional? Are
not suth acts of characteristic lawlcfuness entire
ly too common for the comfort of such a viw?
It not our purpose to charge this and other
xhibitiona of lnwleiisnens to all papists; but we
In charge it to papint teaching and to the Homieh
Icrgy who prepare and promote a teaching which
degrading in cffitt.
If the value and nature of all things may be
i-nonahly measured and estimated by their
roduet. then such Hnpes of popery a make
'tome notorious by their lawless rioting, mobbing,
md murder most assuredly reveal the. quality of
he alleged religion they profesa and the like
itialitv of the inspiration thev receive from the
,iajaey from it iopcs down to the teachers of
Pr'sll school
If there are goixl Roman Catholics, they are
so in spite of the influence to which they are
subjected: and are then-fore entitled to the great
er credit. But tho logical effect of what the Ro
man Catholic hierarchy inculcates is to cultivate
crime among its dupes and disturb the peace of
decent and law-abiding .eopIc.
In proof of that proosition, the reader' at
tention is called to a number of (liNraiteristK
mts of lawlessness occurring within the present
year. In further demonstration of the fact that
papists are yet animated by the .same spirit that
darkened the pages of media-val historv, please
observe:
On July I. 101f, a papist tnoh invaded the
hall where A. I. Rnlman wax delivering an anti
papal lecture at Wyiidincre, N. H., and attempted
violence on the jierson of the sHaker. Failing in
that, beiattse Mr. Bulmaii was armed and showed
;i (l.wiL't'roiis (lti'sitioii to defend himself, thev
smashed the furniture and indulged in other of-!
fensive condtu t with purpose to terrify the audi
"tice and inspire such terror as might discourage
further lectures or meetings of the kind.
At four o'clock, Saturday morning, July 29,
19lf, some ignorant tool of the papacy tried to
destroy Thk Mrvvri: plant nt Aurora, Mo., by
exploding several bombs under tho floor of the
press room. Nothing bu( the ignorance and
ilumsiness of whoever made the attempt saved
lire destruction of machinery that cost thousands
of dollars.
On June 25, 191fi, papist mobs rioted in the
"troets of Brooklyn, X. Y., assailing young jxviplc
returning Imme from Sunday school at the Italian
Branch of the Central Presbyterian chun h at 1C5
Frunklvn Ave. For several davs this rioting con
tinued during which outdoor meetings were dis
turlied by rock throwing and a eaker for the
Y. M. C. A. was attacked in the automobile from
which he was addressing on audience on the ftrcet.
In June 1916, Miss EliziiMh Schoffcn, an es
caped nun who made the priest who had profited
from her IhW pay some of the money flue, her,
liegan to tell her experience nt t-tn-et meeting
and in the churches of Portland, Ore. The Cath
olic Sfntinrt of that city printed abusive article
about her f a nature to excite papist mobs, and
the local Knights of Columbus appointed a com
mittee to stop her speaking. Thanks to local pa
triots and the Free Press Defense league. Miss
SchoflVn rwvived the protection she deserved, and
has gone on with her lecture.
On June 2, 15Mt. Elmer K. Roger of San
ford, Florida, was waylaid on the highway several
mile south of that city by a mob mmpiised of
Knights of Columbus. Thev bound and gagged
him. threatened to hang him; and. when he re
fusal to cease his work in opposition to popery.
heat him into a condition of insensibility, and
left him maimed an 1 unconscious. This display
of papist Inquisitional methods had much to do
with the overwhelming defeat suffered by papist
candidates at the ensuing Florida primaries.
On the evening of April 3. 1916, a mob com
posed of several thousand papists, ran riot in the
streets of Haverhill, Mass., to prevent the deliver
ing of an address concerning sectarian use of pub
lic funds which was advertised to be given by the
Ret. Thos. K. Lcydcn in the Haverhill city hall.
Numbers of persons were brutally beaten and
great damage was done to the municipal building.
On this occasion the Modern Inquisition so terri
fied a whole city that troops were called out to
restore order.
On the night of March 11, 1916, Wm. -W.
Gaskill, living at Bordentown, X. J con-
iifioDtrrwi or irrrim ad tkVtLorc tst
XW . 4. ft. HUil
to 4 Pi
te
(V tr . t J.
S at.
U Sy. i-U
T.r fZ. JUU -s
m. 4 w -" St wlU. i
ft" Ll V . t 'ft '. W!..'; xmjl mm W
WVWWWWWWIWSSWWAS(W(V
ductor on the Trenton branch of the Pennsylvania
railroad, was lured from his train and murdered
at Fieldeboro. Careful review of hi life and
associations reveals no motive for the inurfler sae
the fact that he was an outspoken patriot, and
earnest in his opposition to popery to the extent
of circulating anti-papal literature. Rome wa
'lis only enemy, and it is the firm conviction of
i his friends that his cowardly and brutal murder
was the worU of the modern Romish Inquisition.
On the evening of Man h I. 1916, a large mob
of papists, accompanied ' by at least one nrie-t
chargtd on the platform in the Boulevard Ma
sonic Hall at 550; S. Halstead St., Chicago, where
Dr. Joseph Mattery was addressing an audience
in defense of free speech. Not content with
breaking up the meeting and with attacking tier
sons in the audience, thev smashed windows, and
even wounded women when the riot spread to
nearby dwelling occupied by person opposed to
popery. Street cars wer stopped, nrearms us
chanied, iasenger clubUd, Hiid violence em
ployed in thi characteristic endeavor to terrorize
peaceable citizens and make the Modern Inquisi
tion cflVctivc.
In the spring of 1916 the Women's Party of
Cook county (Chicago) Illinois, distributed lit
erature from their headquarters in the Hotel La
Salle in defense of the public school and antag
onistic to popery. Delegations of Roman Cath
olic called uh.ii the management of the Hotel
LaSall?, and served notice that they would lxy
cott the hotel unless the Women's Party were
ejected. Tie' management of the hotel, fearing
the Modern Inquisition and its threats, compelled
these sinn're and public spirited women to vacate
the quarters they had occupied for live years.
On Sunday night, Feb. 6, 1916. a mob of stu
dent from the papist university of Notre Dame.
at South Bend. Indiana itrove the crew from a
street car at the point oi pistols, set the car on
fire, and totally destroyed it. Strange to say, the
president of the alleged school tried to justify
the conduct of the mob in a communication to
the South Bend Tribune yf Feb. 7.
These are but a few of the xiolent deeds per
petrated by papists in the space of a few months.
Do they not show the spirit of twentietlwrntury
popery to be identical wijli that of the dark age?
Perhaps even more remarkable than the lawless
deeds we have mentioned is the fact that the
papist press attempted justify each and all of
them on the plea that.ie rioters and mobber
were "provoked' by some thing someone else had
dona or was about to doy
W II MM . . M .X tm
ASHURST CAMPAIGNCOST U.S. $2,000
Rome's Senator from Arizona Unloads Fabulous Cost of His Political
Campaign on People by Sending Letter Printed at Government
Expense Througli Mails, Postage Free Pope's Army Chap
lains Attack Y. M. C. A. Other News From Washington
r onrit o. hations, ZZrZ it r rw'tre omf'hat disturbed on account of the
i-i.M Lrm. si itiua . whitto.. v. c artivitie of the Y. M. C. A. along the border, and
UK name of Ilcr.rr F. Ahurt. Unitcl I
m
State s. nat..r from Arizona. apvnr .-on-,
spicumislr in the h.t of I(mati Cath.li.-
in otlicial life published in the Milwaukee
Cathotir Ciltifn. a leading R.tman Catholic week
ly, O, totier 9, 19l.. The Senatorial term of Mr.
Ashurst ends next March am he is a candidate
for rc-rlcction. He i chairman of the Snate
Committee on Indian Affairs and has recently
had printed at the roernmcnt frintinr o'nc
a five-pace (ircular letter on the official letter
head of that committee. Thi letter, which i ad
dressed to hi constituents, purports to give a
summary of hi rc-ord in the senate. It is licit her
more nor les than an electioneering appeal pure
and simple.
The letter, which is printed in imitation of
typewriting, was copied into the Congressional
Record of Sptnilcr 6, accompanied by the
statement that seventy thousand copies arc being
sent through the mails under the franking priv
ilege of Mr. Ashnr.-t as a senator. It i also
stated in the Congressional Record that the cx-jH-nse
to the government of preparing ond trans
lating through the mail tifty thousand copies
would cxci-cd S'.'imo.no. Mr.".litirst and his
friend in the senate made the defense that this
letter had Urn submitted to the post master-general
and by him declared to lie frankablc under
the postal laws and regulations.
If the law authorize a senator or representa
tive to make a political campaign in this way
under hi franking privilege while hi adversary
in privale life must pay tage on all letters
which he sends through the mails, then the law
discriminate in favor of candidates who are in
i office and against those in private life. Any such
provision of law is fundamentally unjust em
should lie amended or repealed. A senator who
ilia drawn $ l.l.oon.oo in salary from the treasury
i of the Vnited States should be required to meet
I the expenses of Ins campaign for re-election a
fully as hi competitor is required to do.
Moreover, thi letter of Mr. Ashurst. printed
on the ollici.il letter-head of the Indian Commit
tee, has a quasi official appearance which is man
ifestly unfair when used purely for campaign
purjMise. While it pnrjorts to give the otlicial
record of Mr. Asluir-t. some very impirtant items
in that record are omitted from the letter.
For instance on March II, 191(5, Mr. Ashursl
introduced a bill (S. .ftui) which provides
"That in ony contrail for the sale of articles of
commerce to any dealer, wholesale or retail, by
any grower, producer, manufacturer, or owner
thereof, under trale-mark or special brand, here
inafter referred to os the 'vendor,' it shall lie
lawful for such vendor, to prescribe the uniform
prices and manners of settlement at which the
different qualities and e-uantities of each article
covered bv such contract nu' be resold."
It seems impossible to conceive any righteous
or legitimate purpose that can be subserved by
the foregoing measure. Its necessary effect if
enacted into law would be to permit any manu
facturer or producer of commodities in general
use to establish under the protection of hi trade
mark an intolerable mnnorolv for the robbery of
the public. Under it ojeration the producer,
under trade mark of anv commodity in general
Use, could so regulate the selline price of that
commodity a to realize a thousand per cent profit
on the cost of production.
Neither did Mr. Ashurst mention the fact
that vast sums ore appropriated from the national
treasury to support Roman Catholic school among
the Indian with his approval as chairman of the
Committee on Indian Affairs. Citizens of Arizona
are entitled to know all the facts contained in
this senatorial record.
Chaplains Fighting 7. M. 0. A.
When Priest M. J. O'Connor, a Roman Cath-
olic chaplain of the Ninth Massachusetts Regi-
tmnt of National duards at hi I ao, is not kept
too busy visiting local priest and nun in com
pany with armv officers, he spend hi time in
lailimr against the Y. M. C, A. and bewailing
the great work being done among the soldier bv
that non-sectarian organization of Christian citi
zens ond benefactors.
This Irish papist chaplain has recently, in
company with den. Swootscr, t ol. Locun and
Majors Smith and Cahill, exchanged visit and
taken luncheon with If ex, r r. x anierma,sen
Thi bunch also recently visited the Sister of
fioretto, as did also Company Ct of the Ninth
Massachusetts,
The Roman Catholic chaplains, who are draw
ing lilieral salaries ostensibly tor th- care of th
spiritual welfare of the National ftuards. when
not too busy paving social and official visits to
local priests and nuns, are accustomed to hold
meetings from time to time to devise means
whereby thev may be able to malign and obstruct
the Y. M. C. A.
In a recent eommnnn-ation to the Boston
rtfo'. official organ of Cardinal O'Connell. Priest
O'Connor makes the following statement intended
to discredit the work of the Y. M. C. A.:
Y. M. C. A. Perniciously Active
I attended a meeting of all the chaplains who
are on duty in the vicinity of Fl Paao. Thf
'1I"VUI,.V ,'n Ul0ir "mme-tute vicinity. One of
,", m a cin ular letter whi- h is beinj
MUt ''roug ...tit the cuntry to tho-e who are ri.u
mouth to I Mou. hrd by the retorted work by
the Y. M. C. A. in In-half 'of the soldier. In this
unular were enumerated the rountlesa varieties
of work Wins done by the Y. M. C. A. aW tha
liorder for the -poor benighted soldier! In the
i. .vi. i. .. s!iak are to lo found fTenthin;;
that humanity crave for, even n-licmn, and all
frc t. the soldiers. How lovclv that sounds to
a man or a woman with a long purse, and won't
they I 'touched' at the thought that a donation
from them to help along the pod cause will
bring torn fort to some poor fellow.
I he part of the circular that hurt the tVW nn
of the chaplains, and riirhtlv so. was the fact.
that the Y. M. C. A. did everything under tin
sun for the soldiers, and the chaplains were doing
nowiiiiR. now soon win tne people te acquainted
with the true condition of affairs those pcopln
who are opening their purse string to tho ap
peals of these fellows who are not giving the other
fellow any credit for doing anything, aye, even
that for which he lc(t his home, to care for the
spiritual need of the regiment to which he ia
attached.
"It may be that some of the army rhaplaina
in the past were willing that the Y. M. C. A.
should take over the responsibility of conducting
religious services, but the trouble seema to be that
there is so little religion in the service that the
men tare little about either the service or the
religion. Sx-ial service, can never take the place
of the Gospel, and if anyone should think other
wise just let him ask acme of the men either here
or elsewhere.
"How many have said to me here: There ia
so little religion injected into the so-called eervica
that for the time spent we could be benefitted
more by using our timo in some-other war Thia
is not meant a a criticism at all, for there arc
good energetic chaplains here, especially from
.Massachusetts, who are working hard to give the
men of their persuasion all that they desire aa
regard the teaching of their church.
Conference of Chaplain
"It is proposed to have a conference of all
the regular army and National Guard chaplaina
from even' point on the border about the middle
of September to be held at Kl Taso. There may
result a better understanding concerning the
work of the army chaplain. One thing is certain,
however, that if the army chaplain had at hia
disposal a small portion of the money spent by
the Y. M. C. A. he could produce result! an hun
dred fold. The chaplain haa nothing to work:
with, and the soldiers have little, for fifty cental
a day is a small allowance for a man's personal
need. It i to be hoped that provision will be
made to give the chaplains something to work
with."
Wilson Appoints Roman Admiral
On Wednesday, August 30, the president aub-
mitted to the senate the name of rear admiral
William S. Benson, Chief of Naval Operations.
for promotion to the great rank of admiral in
the navy.
Admiral Benson is a Roman Catholic and
Knight of Columbus. Two days after his nomi
nation by the president he was" confirmed by the
senate.
The extraordinary honor thus bestowed on
this Knight of Columbus has been accorded to
three other men only in the history of the Amer
ican navy, the rank of admiral has never before
been conferred on any naval officer except in
recognition of services of extraordinary heroism
and value. The salary of au admiral is $13,500
per year.
In recognition of his brilliant and valorous
services at New Orleans and Mobile during the
( ivil ar, David O. Farragut was promoted to
the rank of admiral. The same honor was after
ward conferred upon David D. Torter in recog
nition of services of unusual valor and inestimable
importance on the inland rivers and the Atlantic
coast during the Civil War.
With the death of Admiral Porter tha office
lapsed until 1899 when it waa re-established by
an act of congress for the special benefit of Ad
miral George IVwey, who was promoted to that
rauk in recognition of the most brilliant naval
achievement in the history of the worlds
it is no aisparagemeni oi Aarair,
to
sav that his naval career include
achievement com parable to
Torter and Dewev. In M
moted from the rank of
admiral and made chi
he is given this su
three most
historv hav
thp
emp
mi.
v irj. v .
' .s-:
show
trio'
S J Z . , I--
-e.r -
