The St. Joseph Observer
)-
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 19 1G
NUMBER 52
5w
i v ,
.,
ALL ROADS WILL LEAD 10
ST. JOSEPH. Fifty. OCTOBER 20
.When Secretary of the Navy Josephus
i Daniels Will be the Guest
of the Democracy
And He Will be Assisted by Senator
Reed and the Next Governor
of Missouri, Gardner
The Democracy ol St. Joseph will ,
hold a rally on Friday, Oct. 20, which
will be some rally. It will be a rally
that will be the rally ot all rallies,
for It will have the meat which forms
the basis of all rallies.
St. Joseph Democrats know how to
handle a rally, and they will handle
this one with thudded experience of
former years, which means that it will
outdo and outclass all previous efforts
and records.
Tho Democracy of St. Joseph loves
big men so do all peoples and they
love to have them with them and
they always get them, for they 'know
how to get them and In this Instance,
as in all preceding instances, they
have got them.
Daniels, Reed and Gardner
Who could ask for a greater trium
virate than the above? Who would
want for better? There could be no
better desired.
George W. Akers and Judge Thomas
B. Allen Journeyed to St. Louis Mon
day night. There they met the state
chairman, Judge James B. Cowglll, and
other members of the state committee.
Allen and Akers were after men oi
noto, and they did not rest until they
got them.
The state committee told Allen and
Akers that this part of Missouri was
In such good shape that It did not need
national characters. Akers and Allen
admitted that, but they said quietly
that If they had national characters
they could make more votes for the
Democratic ticket, and that was what
they wanted. They argued that an In
crease In the Democratic majority was
Just as good If It came from one place
as if it same from another and told
their hearers that they knew. where
the votes could be taken from Repub
lican camps if they could get the
speakers; and the committee felt the
RUSHVILLE TONIGHT
The Democratic Campaign Will Be
Opened With Great Vigor at
that Place
The Democratic campaign in Bu
chanan County will be opened at that
stronghold of Democracy Rushville
tonight. It will be opened In a man
ner that will cause all of tho people of
of this territory to know that it has
started In full blast. There will In ad
dition to the speaking be music and
other attractions.
D. R. Martin will be the principal
speaker of the evening. With him will
be all of the1 county candidates and
Congressman Eooher. The occasion
will be one which will mark the proper
opening of a vigorous and victorious
campaign. Meetings will be held In
the next few days at the following
towns and places:
Rushville, .iSept. 30. 11. R. Martin,
speaker. .
San Antonio, Oct. 2, Horace Merrltt.
Sherwood, school, Oct. 3, J. R. Clay.
Frazler, Oct. V, A. D. Duncan.
Halls, Oct. 5, Charles W. Mayer.
Burnett schoolhouse, Oct. 6, R. B.
Culver.
Easton, Opt. 7, J. G. Parkmson.
Saxton, Oct. 9, E. M. Swartz.
Faucett, Oct. 10, S. K. Owen.
Woodbine, Oct. 11, James W. Myt
ton. .& Connett schoolhouse, Oct. 12, John
Connett.
Garretsburg. Oct. 13, Charles H.
Mayer.
Agency, Oct, 14, A. B. Duncan.
Spring Garden', Oct. 16, Horace Mer
rltt. French Bottoms, Oct. 17, John W.
Mulr.
Wallace. Oct. 18, U C. Gabbert.
Maxwell schoolhouse, Oct. 19, C. A.
Porter.
Hurllngen, Oct. 20, Barney Rellly.
DeKalb. Oct. 21, Louis V. Stlgall.
forco of their reasoning and gave them
to the St. Joseph hustlers.
Had All of Them
When they had concluded their talk,
Allen and Akers had Josephus Daniels,
secretary of the navy of the United'
States; James A. Reed, Missouri's
great senator; and Missouri's present,
favorito son, Frederick D. Gardner,
who will be the next governor of Mis
souri, slated to be In St. Joseph and
talk to the people on Friday, October i
20, next. And ot course it Is not nec
essary to state that any and all of
these know how to talk to the people,
for that Is past arguing.
At the Lyceum
And when these two hustlers had
concluded their work at St. Louis they
came right back home and started to
work here. The first thing that they
did after they came home was to go
and get a place that was commensu
rate with the talent they would have
here to talk to the people. And they
found It in the newly appointed Ly
ceum Theater, which has Just been
made one of the prettiest theaters In
the West. It was secured for the big
meeting and will no doubt be packed
from pit to dome on that auspicious
night.
And from this day on the work of
organization for this big meeting will
go steadily forward. Every Democratic'
organization and every Democrat in
St. Joseph will put his best foot for-
ward and see to It that there Is no
lack of Invitation or of necessary pub-
llclty. It will be advertised to the four'
corners.
And It Is also possible that on that
date St. Joseph will have with its I
other honored guests our own William ,
Joel Stone. Senator Stone was in St.
Joseph yesterday and stated that he
hoped to be present and take part.
All Democratic roads will lead to
St. Joseph Friday, October 20. 1916.
McDANIEL ARRESTED
It Charged With the Murder of His
Wife and Is Now Subject to
Investigation
Oscar D. McDanlel, prosecuting at
torney of this county, was arrested
Sunday night by police detectives
Hensley and Maney on a warrant'
sworn out bv Bart M. Lockwood. sue-
clal prosecuting attorney, who charges
him with the murder of his wife. Har-
riet Ioss McDanlel. which occurred
some weeks ago and which from tho.
date of the crime has been obscured
in mystery. McDanlel accompanied
the officers to the police station,
where ho was held until Tuesday, at
which time he was taken to the county
jail, where he Is now confined.
Judge Ryan on Monday ordered a
special grand Jury, which Is now in
session and is Investigating the case.
The Jury is one of the best ever called
In this county. It Is expected that the
Jury will require some time to com-
t,lotP lt Investigation, which will bo
mMi thnrmiL-l. A lame number of
witnesses have been summoned and
there will be no effort spared to bring
out all of the facts In the case,
BEHRENT CAPTURES DINIOSAUR
utnnurti nunco mmyonun
To Robert H. Behrent of the St. Jo-
sepu posiumce mrjinniiii-iii is uue me
creuu oi capturing tne nrsi uiniosaur,
or dlnosaurus of the season He
hauled the offender from his retreat
n one of hi. pear trees In his yard
in Has St Joseph Tuesday morning. I
The "dlnny" is one of the most curious
specimens of bugology that (fan bel
. , , ,, , . . .. i
maglned. While only about three'
I t. I u l. -I . ,
jucucb luuft, ud in uiiuuai uu c&ai;i
reproduction ln miniature ot the fam
ous dlnlousaur of prehistoric times
which could contentedly sit on tho
middle of bis tail and eat the leaves
from the top of a forty-foot tree.
WILSON'S TRIALS
As Seen by Hilary A. Herbert, President Cleve
land's Secretary of the Navy
No other president ever encountered so many trials
as Woodrow Wilson George Washington and Abraham
Lincoln only excepted.
In Washington's day the states were all jealous of each
other and of their newly-formed government. Then, as
now, all Europe was at war, and our country was rent by
dissensions between the friends of France and of Great
Britain. Washington found hinrself, as he said, "abused
like a pickpocket," but he kept the peace at home and
abroad as Wilson has done in these days of peril, and now
in America Washington's name r,tands first among the im
mortals. A close second to Washington now is Abraham Lincoln,
and the marvel of it is, that this is so, even among those
who, like the writer of this, fought against him in the great
war, the conduct of which, coupled with his stand on the
reconstruction of the revolted states, placed him on the
pedestal he now occupies in the world's Pantheon.
Throughout that four years of bloody war Abraham
Lincoln's political opponents held him responsible for every
mishap, for every default even of a greedy contractor and
for every defeat at arms, no matter where or how it oc
curred. And in the spring of 1864 it really seemed as if
President Lincoln was about to be overwhelmed by the tide
of criticism that had set in against him, and that he was to
be set aside for another in the fall elections. But the people
had been watching him for three years, as they have been
watching Wilson for the same period. . . .
The consequences to flow from his election reach far
into the future. The reasoning that sent the late Repub
lican convention to the supreme court bench for a candidate
will be just as sound hereafter as it is now. On that bench
will always be found able men, 'uncommitted on pending
issues and fit to head any combination of partisans and
malcontents united to overthrow an existing administration.
If Hughes succeeds, political organizations hereafter, when
ever they are doubtful about the outcome of an election,
will look first to the supreme court bench for their candi
dates, and thus this election will shatter at one blow two
American idols the one that our supreme court heads an
independent department of the government and is a non
political body; and the other that when in presidential
elections foreign policies are involved, Americans and not
fpreign factions control.
:
WRITES SUICIDE STORY
Harry Howlands of Los Angeles
ActedBetter Than Did Our Own
R- Benton Blggerstaff
"Los Angeles, Cal., Sept 20
" Howland. a newspaper ie-
porter, wrote the story of his pio-
posed suicide, it developed today.
and then carried out his plan, ex-
ceptlng that he took poison In-
stead of shooting himself, as he
had said in his story that he
would."
This fellow Howland, who
formerly worked on the St. Jo-
heph Gazette, later on the Kansas
4r City Times and then drifted to ,
California, must have secured
part of his tralnlnRrom our own
R. Benton niggerstaff. the fellow,
who aped a plug hat "which
slipped easily over his cerehel-
lum" and carried a flshpole cane
which was of about the capacity
of his head and who a few
years ago et out to correct the
morals and shape the destinies ot
the people of St. Joseph .
"Blggy" spludged and splut-
tered around here and cut a few
swaths until the duly and authen- '
tlcated story appeared of his hav
,K -committed suicide" at Cov
,, Ky wlU.o employed on a
l.ouisvu.e paper. rnur to u
suicide, uiggy wrote an eiaoorate
story of how he had been mur-
dered "all of his brains knocked
out" how he had been lobbed of
$700 and u dlshpan full of dia-
monils before he "died" and sent
the story out over the Associated
' r-' OI "",v:" "" ""'
a - ,. ...1.I..1. t... .nn . in. -A.
ponuent. it was pnnieu anu v
after the ruKe was inscovereu
R. Uiggy was forced to acknowi-
edge tlu lmpos'tlon which his
wmlt had created.
some told blooded heartless
people here In St. Joseph after
they read of Howland's escapade
j
.ay that he was more sensible
, -r ...u.. ......
llea Innes :i nl Yf een-vcnr-old hnv
e c,eanmg a revoIyep al hU uomLi
he By Wednesday aft-
Bnot (he ncd.
, ..... . ..... .
dental discharge of tho weapon. He
it.
uiramc Boiut mom,
The excise board ordered Under
wood & Zimmerman to cbango the
name of the Lee Hotel, and it Is now
the Elm.
AND TRIUMPHS
DR. JAKE'S OPENING
His Campaign Started With at Least
" One Hundred People In
Attendance
Dr Jake Geiger started his cam
paign for congressman for the Fourth
District, which is now so ably and
capably represented by Hon. Charles
F. Booher, with a "big rally" at the
Lincoln Club Saturday night. If this
"rally" Is symbolic of the future. Dr
Jake may as well retire from the field
and devote his time in future to carv-
ing OUt "aDDendiXPS" at sn ninrh nor
appendix in which field he has made
much money.
For three hours prior to the meeting
a Republican band equipped with all
necessary banners advertising the
great "rally," at which Congressman
Joseph Warren Fordney of the Sagi
naw district of Michigan was billed as
the stellar attraction, paraded the
business districts and tooted for a
, crowd which
was not manifest-
when the "rally" was called to order
r "r own Mayor Marshall. There
was at no tlme over 150 people in tho
ciuo rooms and they seemed to have
left their hands at home as far as
I applause was concerned. Mavor Mar.
i- , u.u penuacior?
I ..hill rent. .tin... .1... .... I .. .
, , UU,"'MU "'""u ruruuey,
l.'S,0.'" ttnllht0Ur """ l RaMn T
I"" ' b" W 1 Mtt
c'e " ' "w ." !,2 "!,. l'
whcn he gat down the 8encp wag a,
most profound. ,
Then Dr. Jake was introduced and
he did not lmpiove the situation
eopecially when he told his hearers
( that he did not want the office for the
uioiimj that was In it for of that "he
hud plent" but he wanted It for the
'Minim tlint nttM.ili.l !. . i
""""' 'l nieu i" wmi uesir-
"- i. mi ne announceu mat
incuiy ui monej mere was
nmnlfest the only applause of the eve-.
(u,nK 'ch was noteworthy, and some
of tha -,',a' contingent who occu-
vUd front 8l'ats nearly fell over each
ol"r , ln their -Manifestations of ap-
, 'rova1' A,eauy the editors of the
tvso colored papers feel happy, for
jj"'
'full half page cuts of Dr. Jake, and ex
pert toTun more.
If the opening "rally" Is tjpical of
what is to follow there Is nothing left
for Dr. Jake to depend on except
"luck" and that is a poor campaign
issue almost tho only thing that Dr.
Uuke's superior. Candidate Hughes.
places his whole reliance In.
The Buchanan County Poultry As
sociation at a meeting held Wednes
day decided to hold their annual poul
try show here Dec 5 to 9.
LET HIM EXPLAIN
Congressman Rodenberg Can
Add Much to His Reputation
By Strict Adherence.
it will be well for the Demo-
rrats of St. Joseph to attend
the next meeting to be held at
tho Lincoln club, at which time
Congressman William A. Roden-
burr of Illinois will be the speak-
er of tho evening.
And It will not be for the fart
that Congressman Hodenburg
will speak that the democrats of
St. Joseph should attend but
Just simply for them to hear what
he will cay and watch that he
does sa all that ho should
say.
Candidate Hughes and all of
the Republican orators of the
land are racing over the country
In special trains furnished and
paid for by "the interests," howl
ing the gladsome news to them
that President Wilson violated
every right and decency when he
asked Congress to prevent the
railroad strike, which he did pre-
vent to the good of the entire
United States.
Congressman Rodenberg was
one of the seventy Republicans
who voted with the Democrats
to prevent that great catastrophe.
Now that Candidate Hughes has
denounced this as "the crime of
the age" will Rodenberg say any-
thing about his vote?
If he does not there should be
?some good Democrat In the audi-
ence to ask him why he did not?
A GREAT SUCCESS
The Fsihion Week Display Excelled
I All Efforts of the Artists of
Previous Years
St. Joseph was pretty this week; in
fact, she was more than pretty. Hand-
..... , , . ,
some is not a fitting equivalent, for
that does not describe In reasonable
terms how nice and how sweet the "I dunno whateer made Hughes
old girl looked. It ou really desired , think he had to make this discovery
to look at the old gal in all of her unless It was on acount that every
regal display and see how prepossess-1 body else In Nl York has been almost
ing she actually looked jou had to dyin' of th' heat this summer, or else
come here or come downtown and ; he must of begun to think that th"
see her with her skirts on.
This was St. Josepn's fashion weeic.
and It was carried out to the full ex
treme. Every merchant in this good
old city, which always pays Its bills
and loans money to Kansas City when
that noisy municipality gets hard up,
. v. I . . . , , a j young buck or ole skate gets U
put his best foot forward and madei' " . . ..,.,
his windows display the fact that St."ouu" l"al "c ""b"w v" " r
Joseph has all of the goods for all ot' somethin'. believe me, bo, he kin kid
Joseph has all of the goods
the people of all of the earth or that
an one could desire or ask.
And our country neighbors they
were invited and they simply came
on in and enjoyed the festivities.
They felt that they had a whole-souled
invitation one of that kind that said
Come on in and be our guests." and
,they came. They enjoyed the fine,
show, they appreciated the band con -
certs, they talked over the lessons of
the "Battle Cry. of Peace" at the Audi
torium, and figured why it was that
the airman did not fall and smash
himself Into a thousand small atoms
Vhen he flew over the best city in the
Missouri Valley. And then they talked
it over as to who had the best auto
mobile ln the parade, and many of
them thought that the judges did not
know as much as they should, but still
they found no fault, for they had in
dulged in a riot of pleasure which they
appreciated.
And on Monday night when tire win-
ow trimmers pulled back the curtains
and displayed all of the wealth ot a joD. Dig or mue. pr,.utr..v vr
their holdings, and the streets were catcher, woman suffrage or proT.er
so crowded that there was no loom man. will get out among th' poor In
for more, they all declared that the nocent people an' give 'em th glad
Judges had made no mistake, when hand, an' ask 'em how Maggie Is.
they awarded to the Leader Dry Goods an' what a fine lookln' kid Jimroie has
Company the first prize for the best gotta be, an' hopin' th' old man de
trlmmed window; the Townsend- serves to have such a fine wife, an
I'eberrhein Clothing Company, the pUn th' same old reliable line of salve
second; the Townsend, Wyatt & Wall that has been ln use since gettin" easy
Dry Goods Company, the third, and m0ney was Invented, an' get away
W. H. Griffith & Son, the fourth prize with lt Dut lemme tell you ono thing,
for they felt that with such a wide b0i tnere'8 always a little streak In
field to Judge from that the Judges evgry feller that If you only look for
had done their best, as all of the win- R yQU k,n teU wnether he's bullln' you
dow displas were so good that they Qr onJ try,n, ,0 gnow you a KOoA
and each and every one of them were
entitled to a prize.
Where I Their Patriotism?
Out of throe hundred amateur sail
ors who went to sea on the battleship
Maine for the training cruise that be
gan August 15, just twenty-two sign
ed their names to papers signifying
their willingness to oIunteer ln case
of war. The 272 had only one reason
for their refusal. It was "because."
Kansas City Journal.
SLUG 5 1
IKES
ANOTHER 0
SGOVEHT
He Finds on Inquiry That Can
didate Hughes Is Really
Not an Iceberg
FOR HUGHES ACTUALLY
SAYS SO HIMSELF
But Despite the Fact That He Has the
Information at First Hand and With
Hughes' Personal Endorsement, Still
Slug Feels Constrained to Say That
"I've Got a Room Full of Green
Goods an' Am Getting Too Old to
Take Any More"
' D'ya see what's th' latest discor
ery?" inquired Slug Slavln bright and
ear'y this morning, as he laid aside,
a newspaper. A negative reply and
a suggestive Inclination for enlighten
ment prompted him to elucidate:
"Hughes ain't no Iceberg. Ho sod
it himself, see' Not only ho ain't no
Iceberg but he's a real human beln'.
He ain't no cold-blooded handicap to
anything an' he's Just as warm
blooded as a passionate TImbuctoo
maid in the land where th,4thor
mometer busts a blood vessel every
day because of th' heat, an' even In
th' winter th' natives Just wrap them
sehes In th' ocean breezes an trim
their fascinatln' costims with their
very best smile"-
"This ain't no Doc Cook stuff.
Its th' real goods for Hughes him
self made th' discovery, an' he sprung
It on a bunch of Nl York newspaper
guys. But If Hughes kin get by with
what he told them newspaper guys an'
make anvhodv believe that he's a real
wnrm,,",,prl hnman heln. rm ToaAr
. . ., . .u, . . v .
to bet that this is goin to be a hot
camPalS"-
frost that's hangin' on to his candidacy
was beginning to freeze him stiff.
Finds Striking Resemblances
"He'd be a bum candidate what
didn't try to kid th' people about
what a fine gink he is. When any
himself Into bellevln anytnmg at an.
Some of them gets down biographies
of Abe Lincoln, an' Bill McKinlcy, an'
St. Patrick, an' Napoleon Bonypart.
an right off th reel they finds great
resemblances between themselves an'
th' big dead ones. If you ever want
a pieces of easy money, tell one- ot
these gazeebas tnai ne iooks ue
. George Washington, or Mugsy mc-
Graw, an' he'll come across like a
ray of sunshine.
"But as far as I'm personally con
t rned I don't care whether Hughes
is an Iceberg and his candidacy a
frost, or not, but there's ono tning
that you can always bet straight
across the board with nary a copper,
an' that Is that every one of us carries
a little line on ourselves that wo don't
think th other fellows kin see; but
they kin. There ain't none ot as that
don't kid ourselves more or less, and
some of us do it a whole lot mow
than we cet wise to. A candidate tor
time.
Is No Accident
"When Heinle Zimmerman hits th
ball over th fence we know it ain't
- i,ion Whon Tv Cobb refuses
t0 try an Wln a ball game wo know
he's seriously ill. When John L. Sulli
van rises to remark that this Is some
good old world to live in an th' U. S.
A. has it on all the rest of them both
ways from th' ace, we know wo kin
(Continued on Page Eight)
