UU XX NO. ICS.
ADVANCE BY
GRENADE USE
The French Made Progress
North of Rancourt, Says
the Official Report
HAIG WINS TRENCHES
EAST OF LES BOUEFS
German Counter-Attack Dis
lodged British for a Time
Near Thiepval
Purls, Sept. 30. The French have made
further progress north of Raneourt by
grenade attacks, according to an official
statement from the war offlce to-day.
London, Sept. 30. Unusually heavy
fighting oeeured yesterday on the Somme
front in consequence of German counter
attacks. A division of the now British
army was engaged.
London, Sept 30. Steadily the Brit-f-
ish troops are pushing forward toward
the Peronne-Bapaume road, the main ar
tery Immediately behind the German
lines north of Combles. After taking
500 yards of trenches southwest of Le
Sara, Gen. Sir Douglas Haig's men made
additional gains in the capture of 500
yards of German trenches east of Les
bouefs. '
The British occupancy of the territory
between Thiepval and the Ancre is being
contested hotlv. A German counter-attack
after the entry of the British into a
section of the Hessian trench, was re
gained later. Heavy fighting has oc
curred around the Stuff redoubt.
BRITISH USING UP
, 3,800 MEN DAILY
Total Casualties on All Fronts for This
Month Are Officially Reported to
Be M9.549-
London. Sept. 30. British losses in
September were at the rate of more than
3,800 daily. Casualties on all the fronts
reported this month were: Officers, 5,439 ;
men, 114,11.
U. S. PLANS NO PEACE MOVE.
,
Will Not Offer Mediation Until Both
Sides Are Willing.
Washington, P. C, Sept. 30. While
the "hands off" statement of David Lloyd
George, the British war minister, through
the United Press aroused great interest
on the part of Secretary Lansing and
1 other officials of the state department
. .. J.J l. vnnvA
yesterday, it was regarucu uy mem muio
in the light of confirming this govern-
. :t.,,iA flian niinJino a warn-
Uieill B BLXItUw; r
V in rr asainst steps England believed were
' tunder way.
The decision of the administration not
to intervene until it was certain that
peace overtures would be acceptable to
both sides was reached some time ago.
It is regarded as significant that the
Lloyd George statement should have fol
lowed closelv on the heels of reports
from . England that Germany might be
expected to "set another peace kite fly
ing" in October.
American officials are, therefore, in
clined to feel that the statement of the
war mipistcr was intended, to forestall
any possible move that might result from
the expected German peace feeler, rather
than prompted by actual belief that the
. United States was about to intervene.
V .
Counting the Cost.
The great war has already created a
number of puzzles which are not, likely
to be cleared up until peace affords an
opportunity for unprejudiced study of
phase of the conflict about which much
uncertainty must exist while hostilities
continue. Among these doubtful ques
tions may be included the reason, or rea
sons, underlying the repeated Zeppelin
raida on England. It often has been
pointed out that on the score of the
military advantage there does not ap
pear to have been much return for the
JJ f.lm risk run. and the
losses suffered by the invading air fleets,
though here it must be borne in mind
nta of the operations which
have reached this country have been
. mostly by way of iintisu cnanneia m
communication. Doubtless, the Germans
believe their Zeppelins Have done vast
lv more damage than their foes will ad'
in it. It is also probable that the po
i;.;l sfTaot. ah home of those air
i Ll 1' n l - - -
raids is carefully counted upon. The
advocates of tho policy of rightfulness"
should find equal conuon, in ooiuumg civ
ies and sinking ships by submarine at
On the other hand, German officialdom
..... Kt iw iwin of the spur to British
recruiting which was supplied by the
hnvering battleships of the air and the
i norvinv of John Bull to fisrht out
the war to a finish, while the effect upon
the opinion of the neutral nation is nui.
a matter of doubt. If Germany loses
in the war, the civilian victims of her
mir r.(J mill atand for one of the items
in the heavy bill of costs she will have to
pay, and from the neutral world there
will be few protest that she should not
pav it to the fulL
Germany is not beaten yet, by any
manner of means. It may be that she
r will not be beaten, but the odds against
her success are Tastly greater than they
appeared to be a rear ago. Undoubtedly
r fnnrv are calculated nowhere more
coolly than in her own general staff. To
the ontside observer tnis iaci iam w me
!.r ahnut the basic notion of the
Zeppelin campaign. Verily, there mut
1 a reason appealing to the judgment
of some of the world's elevere.t atrat
girt. but just what it may be is ret to
l explained. Manchester Unk-n.
THE
mr n,,,mYT SATURDAY. SEPTKMHKR 30, 1910. 1
TRES. WILSON ANGERED.
Tells O'Leary Not t Vota for Hm The
Messages Printed.
1 n..,i..l, V .1 Scot. nrt. lreid nt
Wilson made it plain last night that
wants no "disloyal" American to vote
... ki... it- .,.r.Mlt iiulk'nation over
(, Mill,. .w ....j-.- - - - - r- .
a telegram from Jereiuiuh A. O l.eary J
New York, president of th American
Truth society, accusing him of being pro-
lti i.ta hsi.I atd I'illif lilt had failed to ob
tain compliance with American right.
The president sent Air. -telegram
which oftlciala indicate Mr. il
son had desired to put in stronger lan
guage. It said:
ft 1 ........ M f.w.l
"Your telegram receiver. .....
deeolv inortilied to have you or anybody
like von vote for me. Since you have
acce.i to many disloyal Americans and
I have not, 1 will ass you i -
message, to them."
Mr. O'larv's telegram, given out by
the president, follows:
"Again we greet you with a popular
di-aoproval of your pro-British policies.
Last year from the 23d New York eon-
.li.trii-t. and now from your
1:1 iiJU'uni - -i -
own state and from the voters of your
own party. !enator jiaruno
cause the' voters of New Jersey do not
win.t anv truckling to the British em
piro nor do they approve of dictatorship
over Congrrss.
"Your foreign policies, your laumr i
secure compliance with all American
rights, your leniency with tho British
empire, your approval of war loans, the
ammunition traffic, are issues in this
campaign. Do you know that William
S. Bennet, a Republican congressman ran
iii the Democratic primaries in the 23d
New York congressional district and
milled 3fl per cent of the total Democratic
vote against his regular Democratic op
ponent. Anglo-Americans and British in
terests mav control newspapers but they
don't control votes. The people may be
readers but they are not followers of
the newspapers.
"When, sir, will you respond to these
evidences of popular disapproval of your
policies bv actions. The Martine election
and Bennet vote prove you have lost
support amongst Democrats.
"Kvery vote for Martine was a vote
against you, as was every Democratic
vote that went for Mr. Bennet in the
Democratic primaries in the 23d con
gressional district.
GIVEN EXTRA PENSION.
Twelve Old Soldiers Living in New Eng
land Receive Awards.
Washington, Sept. 30. Twelve old
soldiers now living in New England will
r.ii.) sin a month extra penshm for
the remainder of their live because their
,,,. onnonr noon the armv and h.i.v
medal of honor roll created by act of
I Vinrrroe.u ff A XT 27. 1016. The fortu
nate veterans are: Andrew S. Bryant,
Springfield, Mass.; John t. tsickioru,
r:i,.u.r Mar.: Walter G. Merrill,
I'ittsfield, Me.; Charles U. Pinkham,
Worcester, Mass.; David iayior,
Hill, K. L; James A. Barber, Westerly,
p t . .TnVin R Rnutwell. Vermont: Wal
lace A. Beckwith, New London, Conn.;
Charles U. Gould, Cavendish, 't.; Carlos
II. Rich, Denmngton, vt.j inici u.
Stevens, Peabody, Mass.; Jackson Sar
gent, Stowe, Vt. The law provides that
the name ot eacn surviving pe""
had served in the military or naval serv
ice of the United States In any war and
who had attained the age of 65 years
and had been awarded a medal of honor
for having "in action involving actual
conflict with the enemy distinguished
himself conspicuously oy ganauuy u
;nrnnwi;tTf ot tha risk of hid life, above
and beyond the call of duty" should be
entered and recorded on buuu a. i
f,iTW nrnvided that upon proper
certification to the commissioner of pen-
. it.
sions by the secretary oi war or me sec
retary of the navy a special pension of
$10 a montn shorn De anowea ior e
person whose name had thus been placed
upon the roll of honor. Up to date 130
..n:.i rnsinni have been allowed, in
cluding the 12 just recorded. It is be
lieved in the bureau of pensions that
abo ut200 persons will become beneficiar
ies oi the new act.
MONTPELIER
William Varwell of Main , street, a
graduate of Montpelier high school last
June, left this noon for Amherst, Mass.,
where he will be a member of the enter
ing class of Amherst college,
rharloa P. Sillowav of Minneapolis,
who came to Montpelier three weeks ago
. .. . ; iL. J.I.
to attend the annual reunion ui me m
vmnnt roaiiTipnt and was elected pres
ident of the organization, leaves to-night
for his home.
.Ti,Jr TTarland B. Howe of St. Johns-
bnry arrived in the city this afternoon
and will preside at a session oi unneu
Ktataa -nnrt to be held at 1 o'clock this
afternoon for the pujpose of conducting
hearings relative to granting unai citi
zenship papers to those who applied last
June.
The local football season will be ush
ered in at 4 o'clock this afternoon with
the seminary campus as the stage and
Montpelier high school and tne auunni
Won. furnishinir the irridiron snort for
the first time. The high school team has
been practicing laitniuny ior neariy iu
..v. anrl with nracticallv a veteran
team Is certain to give the graduates a
hard fight.
Sirs. Julia Bruce, who suffered a shock
m u anlr b(M and whose condition has been
critical since then, was removed jester
H.r afternoon In Volholm's ambulance
to Heaton hospital.
Mrs. Edith Kimball and little son of
Barre street left last evening for New
York City, where they will make an ex
tended visit.
Harry T. Gisborne, who has been spend
ing the summer in the city with his
mother, left to-day for Ann Arbor, Midi..
to resume his studies at the University
of Michigan.
W. J. Brownell, who has been employed
during the past few months by the St.
Johnsbury Caledonian, arrived in the city
yesterday for a brief visit witJi relatives.
Mrs. W. E. Hayford and daughter, Mra.
Herbert S. Brasrg, who have been visiting
in the city with the former's son, Floyd
Hayford, for severs! weeks, left this fore
noon for their Dome in . ueaiora,
Maea.
Mra. Fred BUnchard of School tret
left this forrnoon for Newark. N. J
wber ahe will Tisit relative for a few
weeks.
BARKE DAILYTIMES
, JtiVUllI' a ' ,
ONE UNION
RESUMES WORK
Brewery Workers Quit the
Sympathetic Strike
in New York
STREET CAR MEN
ALSO GOING BACK
The Labor Leaders Say That
100,000 Besides Hebrew
Traders, Are Out
New York. Sept. 30.--Officials of tha
Amalgamated Association of Street and
Electric Hallway Employes begun to-day
the distribution of a ."i.'i,0(i0 strike bene
fit fund amnnir the street car men who
have been on a otrike since Sept. 0. Each
... t
will receive five dollars. A sniau aniouiiv
will lie distributed each weeU
The efforts to organize a general strike
in eupport of the ear men suffered a
check to-diiy when fliHl brewery workers
who quit in response to the general call,
returned to work. Nevertheless tho la
bor chiefs asserted that 100.IKK1 workers,
aside from the United Hebrew Trades,
were on strike.
The traction company officials said
that street ear men who quit were re
turning to their posts at the rate of about
15 per day. For the first time since the
strike began the surface cars were oper
ated on lower Broadway last night.
NEW MILK TRAINS
To Be Placed on Central Vermont Rail
road Oct. 1.
St. Albans, Sept. 30. Under the ruling
of the interstate commerce commission,
proimilRHted on July 11. 1!16 the pres
ent rates and arrangements for the hand
ling of milk products in New England
will cease at midnight to-night. Begin
ning (Vt. 1 the orde of the interstate
commerce commission for bundling milk
product will be established.
The orders provide for can rates on
less than carload shipments in milk or
refrigerator cars in milk, passenger,
mixed passenger and freight or freight
trains, iced in summer ann neateu in "in
ter, for cans in denominations of 8li. 10.
on nn. iii art and SO ouarts: also rates
per can'for less than carload shipments
in baggage cars in passenger iniuii! in
utnsn noint where there is no
open iced milk or refrigerator car serv-
ti. ,ni for crim. condensed milk or
evaporated milk will be 2,5 per cent higher
than for milk via all service.
Carload lots, minimum H,P5 quarts,
...:n i. en- r rant of the less-than-
carload rates when handled m milk, pas
senger or mixed passenger and freight
trains. Carload lots handled exclusively
in freight trains 25 per cent less than m
passenger trains. The rates named for
all service include the free return of the
empty receptacles.
In order properly to tane cm ui ,...
:n. !,.. from Vermont destined to
Illlllv I'lumn w -
points in New England, the Central Ver
mont railway is esiauiisniiuf on v.v.
:u. t..ln, in b nnerated Oil passenger
schedule between St. Albans and White
River Junction daily, stopping at all
points. This train will leave St. Albans
S:15 p. m., .ssex junction v..t y.
r i.i;nr a. in n m.. arrive White Riv-
er Junction 10:50 p. m. Returning, leave
White River Junction a. in., -viuim-pclier
0:5S p. m., Essex Junction 11:17
a. m., arrive at St. Albans 12:45 p. m.
n-i...- nin will make connection
at White River Junction with milk trains
on the Boston & Maine railroad to anu
c nnIinn Thnrn will also be connec-
II UIM AV.nfc'-'.i. .. .. -
tions at White River Junction for
Springfield, Hartford. -New Jiaven, iew
London, etc. Connections with the milk
train will be made from points on the
n:..t, a t,.nnli Rouses Point branch,
IVIUUU1H if,....-.., --
Cambridge Junction branch and Montpe
lier and Williamstown nrancn. ine con
nections from the branch lines will be
made with this train only on week days
for the present.
The tariffs showing the schedules for
the shipment of milk products are post
ed at all stations and agents will be glad
to give full information to anyone in
terested in this new service, or, informa
tion may be had by applying at the office
of the general passenger agent, St. Al
bans, Vt. Passengers and baggage will
be carried on this train.
COW'S ATTACK FATAL.
Nelson Parker of West Brattleboro Was
Gored on Tuesday.
Brattleboro, Sept. 30. Nelson Tarker,
. l w. at Xlra trlo,orrt formnr H'Tlfl
Ull inn.mxuu. w ......
was terriblv gored by a cow Tuesday,
died yesterday in tne jieiiwe i.oiiibi.
Mr. Parker was born in Higligate and
. 1 1 . Al 1(1 ma r a tx-ent in Tp ATaSS..
where he. learned the paper making in
dustry, fe moved to Holyoke, Mass.,
where he uvea over oo years, ih-iuk
gaged in the making of paper. A desire
to return to Vermont and live on a farm
culminated 12 years ago in his purchase
of the Hescock farm, to which he moved
eight years ago.
Mr. Parker leaves his wife, one son,
Theodore Parker of the Springfield Un
ion staff; one daughter, Miss Gertrude
Parker of Springfield; two brothers and
sister, Arthur and Alfred Parker and
Mrs. Joseph LeFrance, all of Holyoke.
There was a high mass of requiem this
morning at 8 o'clock in St. Michael's Ro
man Cathol!e church and the body was
taken to Holyoke. The body will be
taken to the home of Mrs. LeFrance and
the burial will take place Sunday in
South Hadley Falls.
Mrs. Fred Rowe of Wt Topsham wa
brought yesterday to the City hospital
for treatment.
James Mora of east hill was taken to
the City hospital yeaterdsy for aa opera
tion on a fractured t'e.
Miss Ruth Howe, who has been visit
ing friends and relatives on South Msin
street during the past week, left this
noon for her home ia Brattleboro.
DEMOCRATS
SCORE STATE
EXTRAVAGANCE
In Conventon at Burlington Demanded
That Government of Vermont Cut
pown the Waste Presiden
tial Electors Named.
nurlintrton. Sept. 30. P. C. Tollard of
Cavendish, Frank Carpentier of Colches
ter, Dr. John D. Lane of Bennington and
J. R. Kirkpatrick of Newport were nom
inated for presidential electors at the
Democratic state convention held in this
city yesterday afternoon. Key. J. B.
Reardon of Burro was elected chairman
of the convention, and George R Stark
pole of Winooski was" named as secre
tary. Tl. following state committee was
chosen: Addison. R- S. Smith of Bris-
tolj Caledonia A. H. (.leason or M.
Johnsbury! Chittenden, M. G. Iary of
Burlington; Bennington J. P. Mulligan
of Benninffton; rex, i. i- n
Brighton; Franklin, H. A. Pond of Berk
nhire; Grand Isle, Allen Hall of Isle Iji
Motte; Lamoille. C. I- Gates of Morris
ville; Orange, M. Clarence Knight of
Newbury; Orleans, Fred H. Pierce of Or
leans; Rutland, Frank II. Puffy of Rut
land; Washinirtnn. T. E. Callahan of
Montpelier; Windham. James E. Byrne
of Bellows Falls: Windsor, Park H. Pol
lard of Cavendish.
The state committee organized by
electing Park II. Pollard of Cavendish aa
chairman. Genree R. Staikpole as jeere
tarv and H. B. Witters of St. Johnsbury
as treasurer. Pr, W. B. Mayo, M. (i.
l.eary. J. C. Purik and F. 11 Ihiffy are
the campaign committee. Headquarters
will probably be established in Burling
ton. The platform adopted by the conven
tion is as follows:
We. the Democrats of Vermont, affirm
our allegiance to th- principles of democ
racy as enunciated by Jefferson and ex
emplified by Jackson, Cleveland and Wil-
We heartily approve and endorse the
..!.... - ,ir.t.il bv the Democratic na-
tional convention at St. I-ouis and the
constructive and progressive legislation
.,..t,.H hv our Democratic Coneress, and
e-peciallv the laws relating to tariff re-
I ...... a -1- i. :
form, income tax, anti-trusi leguwai mil.
l. .,!,; inJ currency, rural credits,
workmen's compensation, child labor,
and the eight-hour day.
We are proud to approve the adminis
tration of President Wilson and Vice
Tr;.i.,n Marshall. Their record for con
structive legislation, wise statesmanship
and successful diplomacy is wunoui
equal in the history of our nation. This
record is so full oi wonncriui a'-moe-mcnts
that make for peace and prosper
and humanitv. that we
lire' grateful that the Democratic party
gave to the service oi trie peopie oi ima
nation Woodrow Wilson and Thomas R.
Marshall ; and we earnestly invite all the
people of Vermont who believe in peace
.. it I, honor and sre eatfer for a continu
ance of our happiness and prosperity to
join with us in re-electing them.
e demand:
1. That the Republican party stop
.vt mvumint. anus nd or i ii st of the.
people's money under the guise of sfate
expenses.
2. The abolishment of the otnee oi at
torney-general.
3. The abolishment of many useless
state commissions.
4. That the trustee exemption law be
amended so that protection of exempt
funds be clear and explicit and that ade
quate punishment be provided for those
who violate its provisions.
5. That the ballot be placed in the
hands of women on an equality with
men.
6. That the women's compensation
law be made more liberal for the in
jured. 7. The enforcement of the child labor
law.
8. That candidates for office publish
under oath an itemized statement of
their campaign expenses before and after
the primaries and before and after elec
tion, and that reasonable amounts be
fixed, the expenditure of which candi
dates shall not exceed.
0. An effective corrupt practices law.
10. That the state tax commissioner,
state bank commissioner, state highway
commissioner, public service commission
ers, members of the industrial accident
board, and the judges of city and mu
nicipal courts be elected by direct vote
of the people.
11. That the direct pirmary law be
amended and made reasonable and prac
tical. 12. That judicial proceedings be fur
ther simplified, notwithstanding the op
position thereto by the Republican Sen
ate. 13. A just and equitable tax law.
14. That public instruction be kept
free and equally available to all and
that the state provide more teaching and
less supervising.
15. Legislation for the highest devel
opment of agriculture throughout Ver
mont. 16. That goods road not only be con
structed but kept in good tcpair.
We congratulate the officers and en
listed men of our National Guard on the
promptness with which th?y responded
to the cull for service on the Mexican
border and on the splendid manner in
which they acquitted themselves while in
(l,at acrvin. The hii'h standard and ef-
ilicieney which has always been the pride
of Vtrmont soldiers has been splendidly
sustained by them, and they well deserve
and should heartily reeene the thanks of
the state and nation.
DIED ON WAY HOME.
Thomas H. White's Body Was Found
at South Ryegate.
South Rvegate, Sept. 30. Thomas H.
White, a "lifelong resident of this sec
tion, dropped dead about ten rods from
his home yesterday afternoon, his body
being found bv searchers after he had
failed to return to the house. He and
his son had been engaged r'-'"'nr beet a.
nd after that wrk the son started i..r
the cows while the father started for
home. When he failed to appear the
search waa instituted. ith the result
that the hndr was fours! near the road.
He had bren'ill for a yer ith Bright's
disease.
Mr. White was M year ot aye. rn
home was In the t"n of Newbury. !
to the South Ryeate line. He leaes bi
wife and several chi! irea.
HOLD SMALL
FOR A HEARING
Examination of Mrs. Small's
Body Shows That Skull
Was Fractured
WEDDING RING
FOUND IN ASHES
State and County Oflkers
Arrive at Mountain
view, N. II.
Mounfainvlew, N'. H, Sept. 30. Fred
eric L. Small, who was arrested yester
day after the finding of his wife's body
in "the ruins of their burned home, re
mained under guard at a local hotel early
to-day pending a hearing to lie held in
the district court on the charge of first
degree murder. Atty. Gen. James P.
Tuttle and County Solicitor Walter K.
Hill arrived early to day to take charge
of the case.
Pr. B. Frank Home, the medical ref
eree who examined Mrs. Small's body,
said to-day that the skull was fractured,
apparently with some blunt instrument,
and that "the woman had been strangled
by the cord about her neck. There wa
no trace of a bullet wound.
Further search of the asheg of the cot
tage during the night resulted in the dis
covery of Mrs. Smnll's wedding ring and
two other rings and a watch.
GOV. GATES VISITED BARRACKS.
But Could Not Review Vermont Troops
Because of Rain.
Burlington. Sept. 30. Gov. Gates in
spected tho barracks of the First. Ver
mont infantry yesterday instead of hold
ing a review as planned, the latter ar
rangement having been prevented by the
rain. Possibly a review will be held
later.
The detail work of releasing the 1st
Vermont from active duty in the federal
service, which as Colonel Reeves has
stated is neither a mustering out nor the
discharging of the regiment, but rather
granting the troops a furlough, until such
time as they may no neenen, is progie-.-
ing steadily and it is nopea mav "o-
mav l..ava the fort next Wednes-
ilai- T ha ree heckini? of all eovernment
property used by the regiment is a huge
task and tho one which is causing the
greatest delay, althougn mere are n
bf filled out for
other things. It is thought probable that
candidates' for the riflo team w ill be se
lected for tho rifle team within a day or
two and sent at once to Jacksonville,
Fla., where the national rifle matches w ill
take place on (Vt. 20.
ho most eaanal ohserver could
j.irii n" - " .....
not fail to be impressed with the inti-
. r ya . i T ..-UK
mate acquaintance ot voi
the men of the regiment and the inter
est shown bv Gov. (rates in all details
of tha Vermont soldier's life. If there
was a man of any company who had
done especially meritorious work. Col.
Reeves mentioned him to the chief ex
ecutive, telling of his service. The com
manding ofOc r also explained the vari
ous parts of the soldier's equipment and
knew just how everything should be
placed, from kitchen to attic, of the bar
acks. There were many feminine visitorj
yesterday, giving the quarters a more
home-like aspect than they usually wear,
and as the governor ascended the steps
leading to the quarters occupied by K
company of Springfield he was great
ly pleased bv a salute from the two-year-old
son of "Lieut. Charles A. Steele of
that company, who was parading tho
barracks porch, carrying an American
flag-
RETURNED TO ASYLUM.
Woman Inmate Had Gone as Far as
Bedford, P. Q.
St. Albans Sept. 30. Pr. Pon I).
Grout, superintendent of the state hos
pital at Waterbury, was in the city yes
terday and tok back Mrs. Georgianna
Price," who escaped from the hospital on
Wednesday night and was located at
Bedford, Que., where Deputy Sheriff Luke
V. Mirtin of this city 'went and brought
her back yesterday.
The woman left the train at Milton on
Wednesday night and hired Mr. Wagner
to take her to Georgia. When they
reached Georgia, she told him she wanted
to go to Sheldon, but not through St.
Albans.
He came through here, however, and
although she tried to get him to take her
to Frelighsburtr. he left her at the Port
land house, Sheldon. Later she tele
phoned her husband at Waterbury from
Morse's Line, but when Pr. Grout tele
phoned there he found she had hired an
automobile immediately after din er
and gone to Bedford. When Mr. Martin
went after the woman she tried to hide,
hut came here quietly.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A large gathering of Congregational
Philatheans in the church last evening
marked the close of another successful
year for the class. Supper was served at
o'clock and an hour later Mrs. C. H.
White was introduced by the class presi
dent, Mis Mary Carleton, as the toast
mistress at an informal program of after-dinner
exercises. Responses Vera
made as follows: "Philathes Ideals."
Miss Kthel Spear; "Philathea Memoriea."
M's Henrv H. Jackson; Thilathea Spir
it." Mi-s F.llen M. M. Hoar; 'Philathea
1 1. .,." Mrs. Georre Gates. The pro-
igram elosed with the singing of the Phil
I athea hymn. At the business meeting
' later in "the evening the folowing officers
!were alerted for 1916 1917: President,
Mrs. Harry Ivenaaii; vice-preaiaenr, mm
Mary Bosworth; secretary, Miss Eva. A.
Bisbee; treasurer, Miss Alice Mercer.
Plans were discussed for the coming
lona Miihira4 f or th line
' ml, rti"-.r-"- - ------- -
jof orgnnired effort to be followed during
the fall and winter, wnen tne activnie
cf the class are at their height.
AUTO PLUNGED IJI
As Workmen Left Excsvatton to Avoid
Downpour of Rain.
. -I.-il..... ,., in a lonely snot on the
Fast Iturre road, a rain soaked lord au
tomobile and two travelers formed tha
scenic hangings for a strange happening
veaterdav afternoon. A gang of water
department employe hi tha background
made up the retinue of New F.nglani
peasantry neers-sry to complete tho
v I ha nresence of
the workmen figured mightily in helping
l,..:r .tilAllltlllt.
the traveler out m-o -
Hurrving home to Wahlngton in the
drenching rain that compelled the tem
porary abandonment of the j'J on the
water mains. H. S. Smith and his com
panion, George Downey, rode into a hols
in the highway and spent an uncomfort
able half-hour In considering ways and
means lefore their car was hoisted to
the surface.
due of the headlights ws smashed and
a mudtruird lmdly bent, but the travel
... ........... i i. l-'vcavntors working
on the water main had hastily vacated a
hole four feet deep and seven leet nqiimo
when the rain began to pour and it was
into this somewhat pronounced depres
sion tlmt the Ford slid, affer bravely
eompa-s'ng an eight-foot bank of dirt
some three feet high that flanked the
.ii-k i, onii.tr to aid aa they were to
duck for shelter, the laborers rallied to
the assistance of the motorists ana sun
the ue of planks, beef, brawn, etc., the
car was raised to tho level of the road,
fine of the travelers tinctured a little
speech on carelessness with aenmonj.
but in the main the Washington people
were satisfied that the results of their
unexpected descent might have been more
serious. Water department employes,
scurrying to shelter when the rain came,
left it to the pile of dirt in front of the
hole to warn travelers of what lay bo
yond. MRS. FRANCIS LEITH
Died Yesterday Afternoon After Six
Years' Illness.
The death of Mrs. Francis Leith oc
curred at her home on the Merchant
street extension Friday afternoon at
3:30 o'clock, the end following an illness
of more than six years. Death wad due
to dropsy end throughout her long ill
ness she here her lot patiently and with
fortitude. Mrs. Leith is survived by her
husband, who is employed at the Pres-brey-Covkendall
plsnt; three daughters,
Mrs. KiWunce Ritchie, Mrs. M. Curtis
and Miss Jemima Leith; and five eons,
Francis Leith, jr., Donald Leith, Charles
Leith. William Leith and John I-eith.
Two brothers and a sister reside in Lon
don. a sister in Glasgow and a brother in
Kansas City, Mo.
Mrs. Leith was horn In Aberdeen, Scot
land, Sept. 1853. At an early age she
went to Thurso, in the north of Scot
f mrtsf. of her cirl-
noon. L-nr
after several years here she went back to
wi.a miin to . rni'i ii-u ill ii-w
Scotland for a sojourn, returning again
in 1891. Her marriage to Mr. Leith took
place in Rockland, Me.. Aug. 14, 1874.
Funeral services win oe "
house Sunday afternoon at 2 o clock.
Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor of the First
Iresbyterinn church, will be the officiat
ing clergyman and Interment will be
made in Hope cemetery.
TALK OF THE TOWN
r. rr,; Perkins. Mrs. Murk Morse,
Mrs. V. X. Morse and Mr. and Mrs. Pliny
Morse of Bandolph were among me ou
iness visitors in the city yesterday.
Mrs. Josie M. Stewart of North Main
..,, ..i tn hr home last night
after an extended visit with friends and
relatives in Berlin, Norwich and Miaron.
Messrs. Hubbard, Pole and Ryan of
ii. o u;nn hih cehool faculty left
ine .iiuiuni, "..
yesterd.iv afternoon for Camel g Hump,
where they will, spend the week-end en
camped on the mountain top.
Miss Kva Smith, Misses Dorotnv and
Emilv Sprague. George Bisbee and Harry
and Richard Sprague left this noon for
F-ast Randolph, where they will attend
the wedding ceremonies of Mis Ruth
Sprague of Kast Randolph to Pr. Charles
Freeman of Chicngo, 111., which will be
held this afternoon.
There were ahout 5.10 exhibit bv
school children of the various cities and
towns of Washington county st the ex
hibition held in Montpelier city hall jes-
, J 1 nDniaa nf the 8Sh-
icruHv uiiiici ai-i f
ln"ton County School Superintendents
. -i j ! 1.. Jl- o n i n 11 vf
assoc ation. the exniDus mciuuuig "j
sewing and canning.
About 20 young ladies assembled at 4S
Wellington street last evening as guests
'- . . i ...... 1 t,r
of Miss Ruth lluse, woo nnm"
approaching marriage to George F. Mae
kar of Park street. The guests gave
ic,. nrmt surprise on their ar
rival in presenting her an electric coffee
percolator. The evening was very pleas
antly spent. Miss Huso served refresh
ments Of ice cream, rase aim nn..
Tl'.e corn roast which w as to have been
held la-st evening by the members of the
nt Snflulilini" hah school had
UIII"I vmc-o .k r. --------
to be postponed on account of the ram.
After all hopes of a corn roast vanished,
thev arranged an entertainment in the
assembly hall at the high school building
The evening was spent in dances and
, - i r i .r !.-i
games, alter wnicn rpiu-'
cream, cake 'and wafers were served.
Members of the high school faculty chap
eroned the party.
A boy named I.eo Granai, who is em
ployed "as a tool carrier in a Granite
street shed, called at the police station
this forenoon to tell the officers' about a
blacksmith who struck him on the arm
with a pair of tongs. Blood streamed
from the lad's arm and when he had
done relating his experience to the police
they told him to talk with the grand
juror. Grand Juror William Wishart In
vestigated the complaint and took steps
to call the alleged assailant of the boy
to account.
Something Ailed It.
A colored man complained to the store
keeper that a ham which he had pur
chased there was not pood.
"The ham is all rigid.' Zeph." insisted
the storekeeper.
"No. it ain't, boss," insisted the negro.
Ttat ham's shore bad!"
"How can that be." continue! the
storekeeper, "when it was cured only
lat week!"
The colored man acratehed hi bead re
flectively and finally riigceMed:
"Well" uh, tVn it mu.-t bae had a ie-
KICK, ONE CENT.
GIRL APPEALED
TO THE POLICE
Latter Arres' i Showman;
Anderson T ho Was
Finf,f100
7
WERE TR. ELING
WITH "MUMMY'
Girl Had Been Accompany
ing Show as Ticket
Seller
A story which the police claim involves
tho coercion and brutal treatment of an
18-year-old girl was uncovered around
midnight when Florence Gagnc of Spring'
vale, Me., who was occupying quarter ii
a rooming house on North Main street,
got word to the station that she was in
need of help. Deputy Chief Harry ti un-
blo and Oihcer David Henderson visitea
the rooming house and, after investigat
ing, took the (iagne girl and a showman
named Merritt S. Anderson of Bost in
to headquarters, where they were de
tained to-day.
According to tha narrative recited by
the girl she was working in a factory
in Rochester, N. II., when Anderson und
two other showmen came along with an
Indian mummy which they exhibited at)
the Rochester fair. Anderson, who is 2.
years old, persuaded the girl to accom
pany him on the fair circuit and of
fered her a fixed wage to act as ticket
seller. Anderson, his two assistants and
the girl arrived in town yesterday and
wero going t leave to-morrow f-r the
Washington fair, there to set up tha
mummy show. Continued brutal treat
ment at the hands of Anderson was the
girl's lot, according to her statement to
the police and last night when Ander
son left the room to procure beer,
she communicated with the police. The
complainant is a girl of striking appear
ance and her chief concern just now is
to get back among the mill folks her
peoplc in Rochester.
This morning Grand Juror William
Wishart preferred a charge of open and
gross lewdness against Anderson.
At 11:30 this forenoon Anderson plead
ed guilty to the statutory charge pre
ferred against him and after reviewing
the circumstances of the case a outlined
by the prosecution, Magistrate Scott im
posed a fine of $100 and costs. The re
spondent wasn't Bure that he could raise
the. money and was remanded to his cell
while his co-entertainers started out to
see whether the mummy market is so
glutted as to preclude the possibility of
usmg the dead Indian for collateral.
Miss Gagne is seeking ways and means to
return to her home in the New Hamp
shire hills.
Arrested on Boy's Complaint.
Near noon to day Guilo Valsengialo, a
Granite street blacksmith, was arrested
by Chief Sinclair on a complaint mado
to Grand Juror William Wishart alleging
that he assaulted Leo Granai. a 14-year- (
old tool boy and nipper. Vslengialo
pleaded guilty to the charge when ar
raigned before Magistrate II. W. Scott
and submitted to a sound lecture on the
seriousness of attacking a small boy with ;
a pair of iron tongs. Magistrate Scott .
laid stress on the injustice of abusing
tool boys and cited a case when a man ;
served 18 months in jail for a similar of
fense. The case against the respondent
was continued untii Oct. 7 for sentence.
HUB RESTAURANT SOLD.
A. J. Guthrie Disposes of It to Mrs. John
Forbes.
A transaction involving the transfer,
of the Hub restaurant in the Maseott
estate building at 9tl North Main street, ;
was completed yesterday, and Mrs. John ,
Forbes ot Merchant street, who purchases
the business from A. J. Guthrie, will ;
take possession to-morrow. She will bo '
assisted by her son, Thomas Forbes of ,
New Haven, Conn., und meals will bo
served on the American and Luropean
plans. The Hub restaurant was estab
lished in the spring of 1912 by Mr. Cuth- ,
rie and J. J. Cayhne. After the latter .
withdrew from the partnership, Mr.
Guthrie continued in the business nlona
with marked (success. The Hub restau- ,
rant has come to bo known as one of
the best eating houses in the city.
The new proprietor was formerly em
ployed at Jack's lunch on Depot square
and has been in charge of culinary de
partments in Old Orchard, Me., hotels
and at Durham, N. II., where the New
Hampshire State college maintains dor
mitories. MANY WITNESSES ABSENT
But Their Yev-Old Testimony Was Read
to the Court.
A verdict in the Henry Russ-Michael
Good case, in which the plaintiff sues
for damages as the result of an alleged !
,1 h ilefendant. mav be ex- 1
pocted early this afternoon, the case,
I : . 4a . I, .. i,rY, in eon rt vurt the mid-
die of this forenoon. The suit, which j
has been tried once in county court and ,
the dfision reversed by the higher court. '
has proven to be the longest yet during i
the present term. Many w itnesses for
the plaintiff were unable to be present,
and their testimony given at the trill a
year ago was read from the court rec
ords. Two new chancery cases were entered
vestcrdav afternoon- as follows: Llroy
V. I-cavitt, adm., et al . vs. H. Blanche
Perrin et al.; Fdward H Deavitt, adm,
et al., vs. Town of LnderhilL
V E. St. frnire. salesman for the Olds
mobile company in the Vermont district,
returned to Harre this morning after
spendinc several days iu Rutland on a
busine-! in the interests of the firm.
arl ( arrol'4n, who hat been visithng
friends in the 'ty for several days, left
i. . ., ;it f,.r ho. home in New 'i ork
I itv. where he is emplojed by the Chev
rolet iiutor to. a. ri tamo.
