P7T
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 324.
r
YORK, THURSDAY,
1916 . Copyright, 1916, 6y fne 8tin PrlnMnf onrf PubtiM0 .4ocfaHon.
In Oreater'-NeW York. I KIssitbsM.
Jersey City and Newark. I TWO CUNTS).
Showers to-day and to-morrow; north- ml lfe afA .mrrSAammWImkWas .Wt MamTAWAy Jf f '
east to north winds, becoming strong. ai T . 1 wjCaaaaaaaaTTnaaaaaaaavXaaaaUsSSfl V IT HINFVwPlaW AJ 1
Hlhe.t temperature yesterday, 86: loweit,9. V I I L 4aBB(QaaaVaaHaKQaaflE kJ 11 I 11 3-"-
mnrlne report on page "lam SKKKBMSMMWMmmf' " mKKMI
MOVING TROOPS
STIRS EXPERTS
Army Men on Border
Angered l.v Bunjrlinjr
TiansiMtitntion.
COL. FORM AX SETS
WILSON' EXAMPLE
Colonel of Chicago's First
Clival' (Jets Pullmans
for His 1,20(1.
COXGHKSS IXQU1HY
IS NOW lMlEDICTKI)
U. S. Officers Fear Wilson
ami Arc Cautious in
Criticisms.
fiprri'il Corrrtponimct to Tux Sis.
Bkownsuixk, Tex., July 19. Con
llder the Joy of a cnvnlry regiment
which owns 1,200 pairs of pajamas nnd
i Colonel who sees bright roil If any
body high or low trim to tamper with
th health of his riding men. 1'aJiim.iH
and Colonel are seized of nnd pos
sessed by the First Cavalry of Illinois,
now encamped In 100 decrees of hent
upon the mm baked adobe mud two
miles west of Hrownsvllle.
The pajmins nre Interesting, not
only because they nrc the only regi
mental pajamas In the National Ouard
contingent of the army ho far n imy
budy knows, but because In this heat
nd In these conditions s0 trying to
green troops, they make for comfort
md cheerfulness and health and are
an equipment experiment which may
be taken up by the army as u whole.
The Colonel- his name I Milton
Forman und he practise law In Chi
cago when he Is nt home Is even
more Interesting than the pajamas.
He declined to permit War Depart
ment meddlers to expose his healthy
troop to peril of pneumonia, and when
the War Department ordered his men
Into ordinary day roaches he refused
to take ordinary day couches. He paid
for three trains of standard Pullman
cars out of his own pocket. That is.
he made himself responsible to the
I'ullman company for these sleepcra.
intra Ills Trnnpera.
The reult was that the Kirs: Illinois
Cavalry has not a case of serious 111
rirss In Its whole camp. It arrived at
Hrownsvllle completely fit and ready for
training, a -redlt to Its State and to !h.
Nn'unul (Juard, where other regiments,
fr i 1 to ride for four and Ave and six
days in day coaches regiments that were
veil of sleep and tniit were exposed
o he reek that such travelling brings In
hie weather, have been sending pneu
rr.viU .uffcrrrs to the camp and base
hospitals. Forman's health Is erfect.
1' was twenty years of experience In the
Guanl and a lively remembrance of the
d.iv i each and disease days of 1898 that
moved him to plan for the transportation
fUipmtnt that the Washington authorl.
tits li.id ifiised to allow,
in -he way to this camp Hnd since
rr,''ii; hero Col. Forman has seen Na
' jn il Suard troops from other States
hat had no Colonels rich enough or pub.
II' siilr'ed enough to provide for the
nerb lene 'cs of the national (iovcniment.
Vhe sight has been depressing.
s'telng troops on arrival at San Antonio
nl here, weary to the point of collapse,
'erliiE "n their feet from lack of sleep
ai from exhaustion caused by belnc
J hfd and bumped 2,000 or 3,000 mllra
Ir day coaches, three men suffering In
to kats, the Colonel of the First Illinois
Cavalry thanked the Iord that hlo men
ha not been forced to go through that
misery.
Worthy of Praise.
T!.e Illinois horsemen Hre worth n
tittle (pure because their travelling ex
erlenee Is an excellent example of tha
ay the nrmy men and the medical men
think the whole transportation scheme
houM have been handled. The trans
portation side of the mobllliatlon la lt
mn! distressing side. It was, from the
testimony nnd the facts, an unnece
mrlly perilous trip.
Complains about delay Hlong the
rcud nre trivial. Delays were caused
dually by the Inability of the rnll
rnaili to handle to many thousands of
tMullers monthly upon almost no no
tlte (although, as pointed out, there had
l"-n ample time for the Clovernment to
rotlfy the rallroids to set ready and
In atMinhle rolling stock), or by th
tarteiis t for exerclslrg horses, or for
Kmc men comprehensible reason, but no
Inve'tlgator has yet found an under
'tandlug cnuso for transporting men
Iter the clumsy any wearisome fashion
of elghuen years ago, when bitter ex
rerlencfl iroved the dangers of the
fiehlim Kvery armv officer along the
border holds Wilson and his adviser
responsible,
Tin- blunder has had such widespread
ffe t that nothing less than a Con
gressional Investigation can bring out
the truth Army olrlcers are afraid to
tslk because they know by experience
that President Wilson would order them
disciplined for speiklng their minds.
It Is Impossible to get an officer of any
rank to speak for publication,
(iemrsl Health O. K.
An mspec'.luu of the militia camp
rere the lelatlvely few troop encamped
i or eiy near lliownsvllle, the Illinois
tavao .mil a regiment or two of Vlr
llniaiii., lonilrrns Impresslona that In
vestig.itors gathered In the great camp
t Por( Hun Houston.
Tin-",, are that the country need have
t'O i laiiii about the general health of the
troop, (about such possibilities a typhu
for example), because the Medical Corp
of thf tegular army had th situation
cl In hand from the start und I now
arouilng National Ouard medical officea
Continued oh J"A (id Payt.
LOST TO COLUMBIA
ltll I -- t t rti . t. . .
I Mill in HMD -ict ANHIC nil
I ('hot Rrnrhera (lir V Hill' I r
91,000,000 Knell.
OTHER HKIKS PKOKIT
Contestants to See Tlmt Pub
lic Institutions Will
Xot Suffer.
Amos F. Kno was mentally lncnmpe
tent when he drew n will In June. 1915
which bequeathed more than 14,000,000 '
of his 112,000,000 estate to Columbia'
Cnlverslty. This was the erdlct a Jury
In Surrogate' Court reached In four'
hours yesterday at the completion of a
trial which lasted eight weeks nnd a
half.
The contestants nov.- will seek to have
admitted to probate another will, drawn
at an earlier date. John It. Stanchfleld, !
I their chief counsel, announced they wlil
make good the sums which the Metro
politan Museum of Art, the Museum of'
i Natural History, the Society for Improx-,
i Ing the Condition of the Poor nnd the
.New tork Public Library lose by the'
verdict. '
The Oeneral Society of Mo.-hanlcs and '
Trndismcn gets 2.000,0U0 under the
earlier will Instead of 11.800.000 as
(provided In the later. Columbia, there.;
I fore, suffers most heavily.
I'lnchnts (iri (ireat rialn.
Those who profit most are Amos It.
1 B. Plnchot and Clfford Plnchot and
I.ady Antoinette Johnstone of London,
their sister, who If the verdict Is up
held v III get more than 11,000,000 each
, Instead of $250,000. and Prof. Henry
Lane Kno of Princeton, who will get
I2,!li0.000 Instead of ffiO.000.
The earlier will bequeathed the entire
residuary estate to Henry C Kno and
Mary K. Plnchot, who since have died.
The Plnchot and their slrter will get
their mother's share and Piof, Kno will
get his father's share. The share of
Prof. Kno's son, Amos It., however, will
be cut from $t,r,0O.O00 to )l,oon.iot
Others whose fortunes nie .iffo'trd by
the outcome are Mrs. Antoinette K.
W od. to get l3SO,onn Instead of $250,.
OdO; Mrs. Fleren-e C. f .raves, $300,000
Instead of IZSO.Omi; William P. Kno.
$600,000 Instead of $250,000; Mrs.
liraves's two children, Leontlne and An
toinette, $125000 each Instead of $250,
000. John P. Cnhalan, Surrogate, In-1
structed the Jury.
"The law looks with disapproval upon
the destruction before the probate of ,
a -will of any paper, document or ar
ticle belonging to the decedent, and the
law requires a satisfactory explanation
of any such destruction." he said. '
This referred to the destruction of
some of Kno's correspondence by John
K. Men. a clerk for the executors' at
torneys, which the contestants Insisted
prejudiced their rase.
Attracted .Much Attention.
I This was one of the moft Important
will contests ever tried In the courts
of New York. It attracted much atten
tion on account of the prominence of
' those concerned and those called as
witnesses,
M';n quaint stories wete told on tie
, stand of the aged millionaire's ecc?n-
trlcltles. Hankers, brokers, rallroud
, presidents, a former Supreme Court
Justice, a Surrogate, writers, actors,
clergymen, diplomats and n French sol-
i dler recalled from the trenches were
called to tell what they knew of the
great realty holder who lived alone In
his big home Jji lower Fifth avenue.
The offer nthe heirs to make good
the sums the various public institu
te ns other than Columbia were to get
under the broken will Is to cost them .
$SCO,000. The two museums und the I
charity organization were to get $25i',- i
000 eath nnd the library was to get
$5U,000 together with Kno's collection of
books, paintings and prints.
The cost of the trial I estimated nt .
$500,000. There will be an appeal. It Is
said.
To compensate the Jur)men for the
forty-two trial days they sat, the Sur
rogate granted them tin allowance of
$10 u day In addition to the regular
$2 a day. He said he also would re
quest the Commissioner of Jutors to
relieve them from further duty for a
period of five years.
1,200 BAREFOOT GUARDSMEN.
Senator fttlrer Alan I, earn 1,000
at Camp Whitman Lack Uniform.
Camp Whitman, nmtg.v Havks', N. V
July 19, State Senator J. D. Stlers of
Mlddletown, chairman of the Military
Committee and father of the five bills
augmenting the power and soope of the
New York National Ouard, visited Camp
Whitman to-day. He Inspected the
troop with officer of division head-
quarters.
As a result of hi vllt Senator Stivers I
learned that, although It Is nearly a
month since the guardsmen were mobll
Ixed, there are stilt 1,200 In need of
shoes, 1,000 men here nnd at Pceksklll
have no uniforms and many aie going
through their dally drills In overalls and ,
undershirt and barefooted, flov. Whit-
man, however, ha taken a personal In
terest In the question of getting equip,
ment as soon as possible,
AMMONIA BLAST LOSS $10,000.
Ksplualnn In Plnnt of American
Hrfrlarratlon Company.
Ammonia In the plant of the Amerlcnn
Kefrlgeratlnn Company on the twelfth
floor of 147-153 Wnverly place exploded
lust night, blowing through a two foot
wall, wrecking a large amount of valu
able machinery, causing aliout $10,000
worth of damage and terrorising the
neighborhood for half a mile around.
The explosion occurred at about ll;30
o'clock. It blew every window from the
upper part nf the building nnd a man
and a woman passing below, who refused
tn give their name, were badly cut by
falling glass.
The ammonia had been used In u serins
of experiment on Ice chests. There waa
no fire.
I, title Hoy Drowned,
Kight-year-old Kugene McKeever of
42 Hay avenue, Mariners Hnrbor, Stuten
Island, was drowned In Statcn Island
Hound off Hay avenue late yesterday
afternoon, but It wa not until two hours
later that hi body waa recovered. Ha
wa last een aeated on tha aide of a
boat, with hb bare feet In the water.
Hand new york press
ACCEPTS $126,498
SHE ONCE SPURNED
Miss Hitching- Changes Her
Mind About 'Tainted'
Hoard Left ly Cucle.
Ml-s Kdltli II. Kltchlng, 11 Seaman
avenue, ha finally decided to accept the
"tainted" money accumulated by her
uncle, Francis F Klpley, who gave up a
Job as bank clerk more than twenty
yeats ago to lend money on his own nc
count, and loaned It so successfully trat
when he died, November 11 last, In a
furnished room In f chermerliorn street,
Uiookljn. he bad amassed a fortune of
$20l,4!i8.
At that time it was thought Ml
Kltchlng would get $50,000, the amount
llkiley had Jotted opposite tier name In
u tatteied memorandum book contain
lie other Items, but she, having de
tected a fancied taint In the manner of
Its accumulation, announced that she
would accept no part of the estate.
Later, after the transfer lax appraiser
had disallowed all other claims, hold
ing Miss Kltchlng the sole heir, she
manifested signs of a changing mind.
That she ban changed her mind, defi
nitely and finally, became known cs
tenlay through an application to Sur
rogate Ketcham of Hrooklyn for per
tnbnlon to coirpiumV.' claims aggre
gating $75,000. If this application Is
clamed. Miss Kltchlng will receive $126,
9s Itintend of the $50,"00 she at first
refused The purpose of the compromise
l.t to avoid expensive litigation.
The claimants, who have consented to
withdraw suits nlreadt begun and waive
Interest amounting to $15,570 on condi
tion that their claims are paid In full,
are Hrooklyn Children's Aid Siclety,
$!",00, Long Island College Hospital,
$2m,u00. Hospital of St. (Illes the Crip
ple, $10.o0', Wayside Home, $13,000;,
llrooklHi Hospital. 1S,U00, and Annie
A. Ingalls. $10,000.
The names of these claimants, with
the amounts mentioned Jotted alongside,
were found In the same memorandum
book In which the money lender bad
written his niece's name and were taken i
to Indicate the writers testamentary In
tentions. Whether from carelessness) or
a characteristic Impulse to save luw
jer's fees, Mr. Klpley neer put his
testamentary wishes Ino legal form, and
for that reason the appraiser held that
he had died luteMnte and gave the en
tire estate to Mls Kltchlng as the nnl
IMng relative.
It Is an Ironical circumstance that
Miss Kltchlng gets five-eighths or the
estate because of the ery stinginess of
her uncle, which prompted her to refuse
$5u,000 In the beginning. Had he made
his will along the lines laid down In
The little memoradum book, paying the
accusfmed fees as men of much lesser
fortune do, Ills niece, who has skimped
and saved as he did. but for different
reasons, would get $75, nan ri than she
now receives.
REPORT BILLINGS HOME SOLD.
Fort Tron Katnte, the l.nraeat an i
Manhattan lalnari.
Iteports that C K. (!. Hillings had
sold his Fort Tryon estate, at the upwr
end of Washington Heights, and would
make bis city home hereafter In one af
the new Fifth avenue apartment houses
were heard yesterday In local real estaio
oltlces. Mr. Hillings was cruising on
his yacht and In his absence his office,
would give no Information except that
the property has been for sale,
Mr. Hillings signed a lease last fall
for a twenty-one room apartment, an
entile floor. In the apartment house
under construction at Fifth aetiue nn.l
Sixty-third street. He will pay nearly
$25,000 a year rental there and will
take possession In October,
The Washington Heights estate Is the
largest on .Manhattan Island, and with
Its dwelling, stables and greenhouses Is
alued by the city at more than ll.nnfl,.
000. Only three years ago Mr Hillings
spent $250,(io0 for a road to give him
access to his place from Illverslde Drive,
CONVICTS CAUGHT FORGER.
Ilslinrne Tells llo lllehnrils Waa
Hrnuicht In Hook.
OsstNiNd. N, Y July 19. Thomas
Mott Osborne explained to-day how his
former secretary, S. T Klchards, was
caught last Sunday after he had cashed
a forged check 'for 12,000.
Klchards went to Leigh Honsal, a
Raltlinore lawyer, who wa a classmate
of Oaborne, and Indu ed Ilonsnl to In
dorse the check, Honsal mentioned the
Incident to Osborne and the forgery wa
disclosed.
Osborne put two ex-cnnvlrt of Slug
Sing on the trail. They traced nichards
to Yonkers, where they caught him.
He had been winning nt the race and
hnd almost the full umount of the check.
The ex-'onvlrti, one of whom had done
time for burglary, took the money and
Klchards to Osborne at a New York
hotel.
"Klchards was very remorseful when
I saw him," said Osborne, "1 wish I
could show you the letter he tins wrltttn
to me slnre."
REBEL AT CHILD LABOR BILL.
ftouthrrn Senntora Aroused hy
President's Demand for It.
Wabiiin'oton, July 19. President
Wilson cut out real trouble fur his party
leaders In the Senate when he directed
them to Include the child labor bill In
the legislative programme for this sea
slon. Several of the Southern Senator
are In open revolt nnd there la a threat
that the session may be prolonged In
definitely If the demand 1 pressed.
The Democratic steering committee
had n meeting this afternoon at 3
o'clock to get an agreement to Include
the child labor bill, but adjourned with
out action. Another meeting will lie held.
N. Y. GIRL DIES LN MOTOR.
Xlrlcken When on Wny Home
rrnm Woodlmr,, Coin,
Miss Vivian linger. 23 yeais old. of
Stii Wet Seventy-eighth street was re
turning to the city along Pelhnm Park
wuy last night In nn automobile from her
aunt' home In Woodbury, Conn., when
she became seriously ill.
Mrs. Emma Young, another aunt, who
accompanied h'r, took her to Fnrdham
Hospital, There Dr. McOovern pro
nounced the girl dead. Her aunt told
Coroner Jerome Healy that she had been
111 for some time.
BIG GERMAN PEACE CAMPAIGN
TO BE OPENED IN EMPIRE A UG I
Followers of Prince von AVedel, Kaiser's General-Adjutant,
Get Police Permission for Meetings
in Fifty Cities.
IIeiii.i.v, July 19 (Via London, July 20,
Thursday). A campaign of oratory
designed to check the extreme annexa
tionist movement represented by the
Conservative.! and the tight wing of
the National Liberals Is being or
Kanlxcd by the so-called Herman Na
tional Committee, whose chairman Is
Prince von Wedel, formerly Viceroy of
Alsace-Ljrralne and now Oeneral-Adju-tant
to the Kaiser. The speakers will
Include many of the most prominent
names In dermal! silence, Industry,
trade and agriculture.
One of the executive olllcers In a
statement to newspaper correspondents
said .
"We frankly want an honorable peace,
but n J t peace at any price. We do not
want peace delayed through the efforts
of those who demand that we take all
we can get and hold fast to everything
our military power enables us to, with
out regard to future consequences.
"Our desire Is heartily to support the
Chancellor's policies, but we disagree
with the Hovernment's prohibition of
public discussion of the nlms of the
war."
MRS. AI DAVIS IN
MOTOR CAR CRASH
Former Kugeiiin Kelly Meets
.Mishap on Komi Where
Horse Threw Her.
Mr, AI Davis, who came in for public
notice un-Jer her maiden name of
Ktigenla Kelly, was the victim of another
accident yesterday. While she wa driv
ing a new runabout on Jericho turn
pike, LoiiE Island, with her husband
the machine was sldewlped by a large
touring car which tried to pass from the
tear.
The mudguard of the touring car,
which carried four men, knocked the
Davis chauffeur from the folding seat be
was occupying on the running board.
He wai unhurt.
Mr. Davis lost control of her car
and It swerved Into n fence. One wheel
was smashed and the engine crippled
Mr. Davis was severely shaken up by
being thrown against the steering wheel.
She became hysterical, but finally calmed
down and wns able to walk home, a dis
tance of a quarter of a mile
The owner of the touring car stopped
nd gae his uamo to AI Davis as A. H.
Frost of Cedarhurst, 1.. 1. It wa said
nt CHarhurst that no such man lived
th-re.
Mrs. Davis was thrown from a horse
on the same road on May 7 last and
suffered a slight concurslon of the brain.
She was In a hospital seieral weeks.
PARTY POLITICS IN SENATE.
Khafrnlh Attack Administration'
Cnrtls Defends It.
y
Wabiiinuton, Jul 19. Partisan poli
tic bobbed up In the Senate to-day
and obstructed the legislative routine
for more than an hour Senator Shafroth
of Colorado felt a call to defend the
Administration and the Federal Keserve ,
system nd to show how piosperou'
the country Is a the result of Wilson'
policies. When he had concluded, Sena
tor Curtis of Kansas, Kepubllcan, briefly
replied nnd declared that Senator Sha
froth's speech ought to be labelled "a
tribute to the European war."
"We stand for peace." declared Sena-1
tor Curtis, speaking for the Kepubllcnns,
"i nil we want no prosperity Drought
on by war "
Senator Curtle declared that there
had been n steady Increase year by
ear In the number of business failures
In the I'nlted State since the Demo
crats came Into power and that there
had been more business failures In thci
tint five months of 1916 than In any
simitar period In the history of the
country.
MRS. JOHN DELEHANTY A NUN.
geeand Dnaajhter of Thomas Mnna
han Take Carmelite Veil.
Mr. John Delehnnty, a wealthy
widow. whoBe father, Thomas Monahan,
icrently moied to Manhattan lleach
from St. John's place nnd Washington
avenue, Hrooklyn, took the black veil
of the cloistered order of Our Lady of
Mount Carmel yesterday, A sister, Ml
Tessle Monahan, Joined the order about
four year ago.
Henceforth the newly made nun. a
Sister Mary Aiigelus, will remain within
the convent walls at St, John's place
and Hcdford avenue, a voluntary pris
oner. The order is one of the strictest
In the Catholic Church. No meat may
pars the lips of n member and they are
permitted to receive visitors only every
three month". Kven then the visitor I
received behind veil and lattice work
NEW YORK CHILDREN BARRED.
e London and Other Cnnnerll-
eul To mm Put mi Unit.
Nbw 1niion, July 19, Health olll
cers of the towns of New London, Nor
wich. Oroton, Kast Lyme, Wnterfonl,
Montvllln nnd Wllllmantic decided to
day to put Into effect nfter 12:15 A. M,
on Friday, July 21, an oider forbidding
the entrance Into their respective towns
nf all children under sixteen years of
age, residents of New York city or an
place where Infantile patalysls Is epi
demic. This action wn taken at a confeience
of health official nt Montvlllo, where
there are many colonies of summer vis
Hois, most nf whom come from Now
York, passing through New laindou and
Norwich on the way, It Is estimated
that In this vicinity there are alienily
2,000 children from New Vol Ic.
Notice of the action has been given
In the rail and steamboat lines operating
In and to this territory.
ORKAT HKAS SrHINO 1'ATER.
lie. the cim af tlx ltn stoppered kattli.
Aii:
The campaign will begin on August I,
when public nddiesses will be nude In
fifty cities. Pollre permission has al
ready been granted. The principal news
papers are In favor of the committee's
programme. The Catholic newspapers
are for the mo't part with the commit
tee. Dr. Spahn, the Catholic leader, came
to the defence of the Chancellor In the
Itelchstag, The annexationist plans ari
strongly supiiorted by the Agrarian
leaders and Important groups of big
manufacturer.
The Frankfurter ZeltuHg within a
week has suggested that a truce be
arranged so that Herman soldiers may
go home for the election of a new
Kelch-tag.
As a first step tnwaid an understand
ing with (lermnny's enemies the Social
ists and a section of the Liberals have
been urging for some time that the
Covernment announce definitely lie--many's
alms In the war
Dr von llethmanii-llollweg. the Im
perial Chancellor, lias been attacked oy
the Conservative and Aginrlans for his
Inclination toward peace, as exemplified
In the settlement of the submarine con
troversy with the Cnlted States.
SUBMARINE SPARS
I DOWN FOR SAILING
Conning Tower Closed nnd
Tuir Is Standinjr Hy for
Her Hepnrture.
Haltimork, July 19. The twosparsof
the Herman merchant submarine
Deutschland were taken down at 11
o'clock to-night and the conning tower
cts'sest. t'lns hi hand l:iv the tur
'Thomas F Tlmmlns with a full head of
steam up.
In the vicinity of the submarine- were
i numerous launches with agent of the
basiern rorwaruing company ami
patrols aboard. These craft at 11:05
o'clock hailed a newspaper launch nnd
tried to Induce the reporter to leave.
"You're Interfering with our plans."
the watchman laid.
The Dt-utschland's full crew was said
to be aboard, and In the afternoon mure
than forty tons of fuel oil had been put
on the submarine. In addition, fresh
food wns put aboard. Including twenty
tons of water
' All shore leave for the crew was
stopped to-night According to stories
told by friends of some of the sub
marine's seamen the latter have ex
preteed anxiety over the possibility of
falling victims to the allied cruisers re
ported to be awaiting the aubmerslble
off the caps not from gunfire, but from
, disabled engines throtwh being caught
I In nets which they believe will be
! stretched for them.
' They nlen expressed fears that the
Hremen might meet the fate they had
Tilctuied as i possibility for themselvee.
PLAS POSTAL SYSTEM.
tuthorltle Arranalna llnte for
Submarine Service.
(Jknkva, via london, July 19. The
.Vriirsfr Xtichrlchtm of Munich says
that It learns from Herlln that the (ler
iiiaii postal authorities are compiling
regulations and a cale of charges for
a submarine postal service between Ger
many and America, Government corre
spondence to have precedence.
No arrangements are being made f,,r
parcel post service, according to the
newspaper's Information.
DOGS BITE TWO CHILDREN.
Little (ilrl Attacked n llnnf of
Her Home.
Joseph Weber, 9 years old, was play
ing In front nf his home at 321 Kast
Ninety-second street last night when
he wns bitten on the left arm by a bull
dog. The boy was attended by Dr.
Whitman of Keceptlon Hospital.
A few moments later Kebecca Hreshar,
s. of 217 Kast Klghty-rtfth street, wa
bitten by a dog when playing on the
roof of her home. The animal lacerated
her right leg and the wound wa dressed
In the Presbyterian Hospital.
Iloth dogs were taken by the police
for examination by the Health Depart
ment. NO SHARK, YET GIRL DROWNS.
Kven Pnlinotor Kails tn gave Life
of swlmmlnu; Maid.
Shark stories will never again ap
peal lo Lawrence Mulhcarii, 20, of 172
St. James Court, Hrooklyn, since he
lived through a real one yesterday In
which the supposed man enter turned
out to be a drowning girl, While swim
ming off Wave Crest avenue, Far Kock
aw.iy, Mulheain suddenly felt a severe
shock
He felt a tug at bis legs and he
brought to the surface Klliabeth Osette,
19, u maid In the home of Morris I loss
of 202 Hue de Rt. Felix, Far Hock
away. The girl was unconscious. A
pulmotor rushed tn the scene from St.
Joseph's Hospital failed to save her.
She died a half hour after being taken
ashore.
$8.75 WOMEN'S LOWEST WAGE.
Hn; Ntnte I in eMIgatnr I'l Mini
mum for 1'lnthliiR- Plants,
Hoston, July 19. A recommendation
that adult women employed In clothing i
n...Hto l (hi- Ufa.. I... ..nl.l .... I '
imiwiiri. ill iiiir. m.ir i ,,.iu HV,
than $8.75 for a full week's woik was
m ml c t the Massachusetts Minimum
Wage Commission to-day by a board
appointed to Investigate the subject,
The board nlso recommended that In-!
experienced women receive not les than
$7 a week nnd girls undor H years not
lets Until $8 n week In the industry.
A report whlMi accompanied the re
commendation said that after an in
rstigntlon lasting eight weeks the board
fixed upon .9 a representing the
netessary weekly cost of living for self,
supporting women employed In skirt,
cloak, ault, dress and waist factories,
this total Including an Item of twenty
five cents a week for savings.
U.S. TO PROTEST
LIST, EVEN IN VAIN
Bryan Peace Trenty Bars Ke
prisnls on Britain for
Boycott.
Washington", July 19. Vigorous pro
test will be made by this Government
against the Urltlsh blacklist affecting In
dividuals and firms In the Cnlted Stntes,
but no remedial results nrc expected.
The llryan peace treaty with Great Krlt.
tain, fostered by President Wilson, ties
flie bnnds of the Administration so far
as effectlxe reprisals are conrerned, nnd
the Urltlsh Government's action Is rec
ognised here to be In conformity with
Continental rules of International law.
The Urltlsh Government continues to
hold, as in Us last communication to the
I'nlted States, that the trading with the
enemy net Is purely democratic legis
lation, It claims the right to pteent
lis own subjects In Its own terrl'nry from
trading with the enemy by any direct
or Indirect means. If American firms
or Individuals, carrying on tiade with
Germany, suffer as a consequence, the
Urltlsh Government takers the view that
It cannot penult Its subjects to deal
with these firms, Trading with these
firms or Individuals Is regarded as find
ing Indirectly with the tnemy, and the
Itrltlsb Government rests Its case on
that point.
The I'nlted State nlle.tdy has ob
jected to the features of Jhc trading
with the enemy act which adversely
aftict American Interests on the ground
that the act restrain American com
merce, but this objection ha brought no
change In the Hritlsh policy.
HeprUala Only KITei'tlre.
Officials admit that reprisal or threat
ened reprisal would be the only effective
means which might bring protection to
the American Interests concerned. Hut
Secretary of State Lansing lias decided
that the Hryan peace treaty apparently
does not penult such measures until the
lapse of one year from the time when
the two Governments enter Into hi Mira
tion parley for the settlement of anv
dispute. The Administration Is therefore
placed at a decided disadvantage in the
present negotiations.
Great Hrltaln. fur evftmnU witi t,ro
I permit coal to bo sold to Cnlted Fruit
.unipuoy niiamers ai Jamaica ir these
steamer carry "tainted merchandise" or
good declined for "enemy subjects."
The steamers must, therefore, forego
coaling at Jamaica or decline to carry
goods destined for Great Hrltaln's en
emies. The necessity of coaling Is para
mount, and consequently the line refuses
to take freight which would forfeit this
privilege.
Officials here bellcxe a method might
be devised to compel the steamship com
panies to carry goods for firms that have
been blacklisted. The Goiernment niluht
accept this by threatening to refuse to
allow the steamship companies to take
freight here. Hut this suggested action
would. It Is held, contravene the spirit
of the Hryan treaty, which permits of no
form of reprisal.
The Scandinavian steamers now refuse
to take enemy goods because thev do
not want to l held up by the British at
. nirhw.iu. mere Is a boom In the freight
traffic anyway, and therefore plenty of
other fre hcht. The A.i.ini.. . ,..
I spite protests, has been unable to repie.lv
this situation.
Blacklist n Surprise.
The publication of a blacklist for the
L.1 . ,.MntM cam "" surprise to the
State Department, although It has been
Known for some fli.in .1.. .,
i lean firms nn.l i,,hi,.i.i.,.i..
- ,,,, : i,,.,ii- uere unol-
flclally on the blacklist The State De.
ir: , '""-, er, was nt ant c pat in-
niJ""? uMi A,"-r'(' firm and In
dlilduals being officially gazetted in Lon
don. Heretofore when an American firm
as been Informally put ,c black
list a representative of the firm ha
I generally come to Washington and sue.
. I .. "' "'"a tin Government to
t ike tip the case with the Hrltlsli For
sign Office. . In many cases the linns
hae been put back In good Handing
Action always has depended on the
facts. The formal g.uettlng of t,(. nng
list of Anieilenti Individuals and firms Is
now regarded by acting Secretaty of
State Polk as Inviting n protest
The legal arguments which the Cnlted
Mate can advance are ndinlttedlv weak.
All the ( ontlneiital nation hne Indorsed
the practice which Great Hrltaln Is put
ting Into effect, and the Culled States
followed the same procedure In the civil
war.
Slay He Called I'nfrleiidly.
This Government',, protest will there,
fore be based primarily on the conten
tion that Great Hrltaln' action Is "un
frlendl)" and detilmental to American
commercial Interests. It will be pointed
ollt Ihut Amerleu,, ........ '.. ""'."
, , , , "'" " o"i"riiy no
business with German firms In other
rounine, wnen It s to t.r ,um.
I luge to do so and that they should not
l be made to suffer because Great Hrltaln
Is at war with Germany.
I It may be also emphasized that the
I publication of the blacklist has pl.-.eed
"i"ro iiviiiuais nn,!
firms In an uufawirahle K,t and is
therefore not In accordance with the
friendly spirit which the Urltlsh Gov
ernment baa shown for the I'nlted
Slates,
Certain firms gazetted may wish to
modify their methods so as to meet the
Urltlsh Government's restrictions and
then by be permitted to continue trad
ing with Urltlsh flniis, It H said, but
the publication of their names will prnc
tlcnlly make this Impossible and Is re
garded here ns certain seriously to af
fect any further trade they may desire
to have with Hritlsh subjects during
the war.
MAY TAKENO ACTIOS.
Mrri'hiiiits Association Pol,.
Vet Determined.
The Merchant Association has been
asked to act on behalf of many of the
linns and Individuals on the' Hading
with the enemy blacklist Issued by Ihe
Hritlsh Government wdth n view to'mnk.
lug a concerted protest through the
State Department. The policy nf the
association bus not been determined, It
was announced yesterday, hut S. Christy
Mead, seeielai) of Ihe association, went
to Washington In the afternoon to con.
fer with Government officials,
A division of opinion among officer
CotiffnifC'fi oh Fourth Vane.
RUSSIAN INVASION
OF
HUNGARY BEGUN
Lai'U'e Army Is Moving On
Carpathian Passes, Sweep
ing Austrians Before It.
COVKKS (10 MILE FRONT
London Hears Muscovites Are
Already Day's March
Into the Plain.
Losmhin', July 19. Gen. IlrusllofT' In
vasion of Hungary, long delayed be
cause of the presence In the Iliikowlria
and southern Gallrla of considerable
Austro-Oerm.in forces, Is now In prog
ress. The nrmy of Gen, Lechltiky has
drhen to the passes of the Carpathians
the remaining forces north of the moun
tains In the southern Gallcla und lluko
wlna regions, thus securing tho Kusslan
line of communications against attack.
According to a Petrograd despatch to
the fc'trndis; .Sfiir, Kusslan forces have
already crossed the Carpathians and
have advanced a day's inarch Into Hun
j gary, These troops, the despatch says,
inie threatening the Austrian rear,
! The official Kusslan statement doe
not confirm this report, but Indicates
that the Kusslan invasion in force has
hittun. Kusslan mounted patrol bodies
have already penetrated Hungary j
through various passes, but the opera-1
tlons now In pr:gie are being carried'
on by very large forces.
l.ecliltsk's Army tdvance.
Gen. Leehltzky's army i advancing!
I from the direction of Kuty, on the
' Tchi remoscbc Klxer, which forms the
; boundary between Gallcla and the lluko- j
I wlna. The direction of the Kusslan
march Is southwesterly, following the1
river up to Its source In the Car
pathlans, The Tcheremosche Is made up
of two brunches, the Hlack nnd the
White Tcheremo'.che, which Join and
form one river about thirteen miles
southwest of Kuty It is In this region,
( according to the official Kusslan state
, ment, that the Kusslan Infantry Is ad
' vanclng toward the mountain defiles.
Press despatches from Herlln and Petro-
grad assert thut not only In this region
but at other points on each side of It
Kusslan forces are moving toward the
mountain barrier.
This Indicates thut the Kusslan are
advancing toward the Carpathian moun
tain chain on a front about sixty mile
long, stretching from Jabtonlca nn the
northwest to Klrllbaba on the southeast.
, A despatch from Berlin says that re
ports from Hie southeastern front Indi
cate that the Kusslans, after a fortnight
, of comparative Inactivity, have brought
, up heavy reenforcements of Infantry
, nnd cavalry and have resumed a Miong
aggressive on the headwater of the
I Moldav.i near Kir.lbaba, on the Hun
garian frontier.
A ihnnge In the weather has facili
tated the operations, after clear hot
weather In which It was Impossible to
conceal the movements nf troops fur
sudden attacks In great force. The Kus
slan.s aie showing the utmost tenacity,
and their artillery Is playing an Ini.
portant role in the upei aliens
The Austrian mountain batteries, bow
ever, have achieved sidcndld results
ngalnst il, the despatch says. The Kus.
slans prepare only hastv field positions,
believing that the Austrian resistance
can soon be broken, hut, the reports say,
the Austrian Infantry Is w lthtaiidliig
all the attack and the ground In flout
of the item lies Is tilled with Kusslan
I dead.
Cipect luMrliiu Offensive.
The correspondents Intimate that the
time Is approaching when toe Austrian
will assume the offensive and tr.v to roll
bark the Kusslan tide, the Herlln d s.
patch s.i)s,
i Ml other sections of the eastern front
the Itiisslaus continue to press the Ger
mans. An otllclal Merlin statement de
dares that Kuropatkln's fotces south
nnd southwest of Itlira have, been
stiniigly reenfoiced. These troops de
livered heavy nautt against Von Hln
denbiitg's line, but wete repulsed, ac
cording lo the Geimati statement Petto,
grad tepurts artillery engagements on
this front
South of this sector, according to
the Ktislan iep.ui. a surprise attack
on the Germans at Lake .MLu1xl.il hv
co nhlued Infantry nnd lake Hotlll.i fmces
tluew the enemy Into conplete panic
The artllleiy duel on the stokliod,
where the German forces are making a
tlrm stand to prevent the Kusslans from
crossing the tlver and sweeping tow.it d
Kovel. continued with Incteased fury
In many places, In the Gallclan sector
considerable damage was done lo the
Austrian defences along the Dniester by
a rise of nearly eight feet In the
water. Hrldges and boats vveie swept
nwav and the water Invaded the Alls,
til. in buttiesses nnd trench
"CAR AHEAD" ORDER DEFIED.
xtrnnucr Mirks lo lent mill Make
Inspector Give In.
I A spuiikv man of about 15. who re-
fused hs inline, clime nut ahead In a
I till with ii "car ahead" Inspector nf
i the liiteilioroiigh liapld Tinti'lt Coin
i pan.v last night nt Seventy-ninth stteet
. mid t'nltimhu iiveutie The incident hap.
' pencil on Hin.ulwnv and Columbus avc
' line surface nn No 4n7 1, soiithwaid
' hound, about ! o'clock.
! Tilde vveie about Iwent.v .five pnsseu-
geis aboard the car when the Inspector
stepped out from the sidewalk and nr
deted them to get off ami board an an
lliiuated little four wheeler ahead, nl
ready crowded lo overflowing. The ma
jority of the passengers started to obey,
but the stranger kept his sent
"I got on here to go to South Ferry,"
he announced quietly, "and I'm golnr
then- - on this car "
"I'm telling ou lo get off,'' bawled
the Inspector, but the crowd followed
the stranger's lead and clambered bad;.
The man In uniform finally ordered the
car to ptoceed
THREE AER0S FLIT OVER CITY.
Homeward Hound Crowds See
no Aviators Vlnuu'iiv re,
Homeward bound ciowds crossing
llrookl.vn llildge and ti.tvcrlng the
lower part of the city enily last evening
cianed I heir necks to watch three aero,
planes circling several bundled feet
above the pavements. One of them de
lighted the spectatois by playing hide
nnd seek through n low scudding cloud
over Ihe Fast lllver.
The machines were f i mil Governing
Island aviation grounds and were bo
Ing tested by army avl.ilois.
BRITISH REGAIN
GROnND L0ST IN
TERRIFIC FIGHT
Drive t lie Germans From
Loiiffueval and IJelvillc
Wood Ken-ion.
TEUTON SUCCESS
WON AT JIKAVV COST
Hair's Guns Cut to Pieces
Cliartfiny; 3lasses of
Kaiser's Forces.
HIGH TIiNHTK PAH)
TO PIM SSIAX GUAM)
English Coi'i'espoiid(.it De
scribes Brave Fijrlit of
St hit! ii ; 31 en.
LoNixiy, July 10. Tho German
force defending the line north isf the
Sommo launched n determined loiiuler
attack last night to recover some of
the ground lost to the Urltlsh since the
latter. In conjunction with the I'Ycuch.
opened thv offensive In th,. .Sotnm.
region. The Herman were .successful
In regaining n footing in the northern
part of the village f Longueviil nnd
ulso occupied a liait of the Ibvivlllo
wood. Attacks made nt the sain,; tltm,
on the Watorlot farm fulled.
The success ot these eftoits wis. how
ever, sbott lived. Gen. Sli Douglas llaig
reporteil nncny to-night that most ,,f tin,
ground taken by the Germans n their
counter attacks was rec.iptuied by th
Hritlsh to-!ay and that the Hritlsh nit l.
Wry fire had dispeisxl the German troops
which were being massed behind the line
for a repetition of the attack on tho
Waterlot farm south of Delvllle wood.
These attempts of tho Germans to nop
the progress or Halgs iirmles led to
some of the most violent lighting jet
seen on this front. The attacks, which
began nt dukk last night, wire preceded
by unusually heavy artillery bombard,
ment, and great masse t,f elfcctlves
were used II, the mfatitij attacas.
Germans Los,. Ilenvll).
Hritlsh machine milts and artiller-,
waiting for Just such an effort, cau- !
heavy losses In the attacking lours
according to Gen. Il.ilg's rrport th s
afternoon, but lis- pussute became t,,,,
gieat fur th,. defender nnd tip.
Hritlsh line was bent bail; at the two
points mentioned.
Hlitlsh coriispoiiilctits have Insisted
recently that the German counter at.
tacks wire decreasing in strength. The
attacks made last night appear to havn
had much or the fone and deti i initiation
of previous German assaults, but. when
their point bad been partially gained, the
Germans wcie not able to hold the
4'roiiiul taken, T.ins, after many hours
of tei title sti lurch., the situation remains
nlnxit the same as It was at the Isgu,.
nlng of the Get man counter .itl.uks. Tho
battle Is still In progn ss.
In the iicimau oilkial statement of
last night's battle leciied li'ie tills
afternoon from llerlm. announcement s
made ,,f tl aptute of l.oiiKiieval ami
the D.lvllle wood Xccoidliig to the
German statement, the attacks wen
made bv the .Magdeburg Twenty. sixth
Infantry lleKiment The same 'state
ment says that eight Ulllish ollhers an 1
Jvo men wet,, taken ,ni nets, in addi
tion t" he.ivv Itntlsh losses In killed and
wounded, and th i " onMilcnihle. num
ber" of m.Klune guns were taken.
Tellium Driven OIL
South frlc.iis. includ UK both Hritlsh
and lloeis, took the Helville woods most
gallantly after the llrlttsh btnkti the
second Hue of defence last week, but
were over ln.iv,. and eager and Incxpcii
cm ed in tbia kind of warfare. In tin
last twcnty.foui hours the Gcrmai -massed
tioops ,in, devt loping counii
attacks, with the risult that soinethinu
of the same kind of seesaw ing as a
Trones wood took place among the fallen
ttees, branches, undeigiow ih ami she I
crater
The Germans thievv n divls1,!! it the
South Africans last night amiim tn ..
e over both Delvllle Wood and the v -luge
of l.oiigucvul, Willi tie '.spit th.r
the South Africans, who .nsieeil pm
they could hold tile woml inmit hel.
vveie olltllUlllbeled .Hid III In gi
ground.
Urltlsh leelifoiceillellls ii. , Ued I'll
attack and hold half of th. v., ml ,, n ,
all of the village
The German War i Ullce also .ninouiii i
the complete n pulse of lliltish attacks
north of oviller.s and on the i,rtiu. .
edge of Policies, und local Flench at
tacks north of ll.n icu ami ii.-ur Hello -eipSatileiics,
both on the southern bai.n
of the tlver.
FIkIiIIuu lo Ihe Dentil.
The con espnnncpt of Hie lhl.li
CAionfcfc ai llriilsli headiiuai tei s in
France describes the struggle for (ivllloi
as a siege In which utt.nk and deft in
vvcte of the most dogged deep, ritliin. ui
the great vaulted cell.ns hcui.itli Iho
ruined town
He tells of a surpibr aiia U when a
number of fresh liois sprang Into di -fences
on the western s de ot the town,
linked up witli the men in the ciipttucd
tienches, nnd cm the pl.i' e In half. Iso
lated the Germans, w I ic still holding
i out In the ii'Mi.-cin hall oi the mihon
i After llescl llllliu the s'OW ploco's of
i digging on' tin' Gci nuns ii,,m ih. tr last
'strongholds, the i .o lespm.iiem says:
I " 'Pie town ot indict-, is pot a to A li,
I It is nier.ly a nibblh heap of bilik-iirj
I dlist
"We ill idc a wall of rteith nhnnt tho
em my The Piusslnn Guild made full
us,, of tin- v. lulled lel ais of tin. mined
bouses Tin y in.nlc a mm les of sin ill
kei ps, which they defended almost en.
tlrelv by the Hie of machine guns, which
played their hose of bullets a. ross the
giuund uui men had to cover."
The correspondent describes how, one
by one, these keeps were raptured by
hi
I
1
I 1V
113
