T- . "yww i -i wf iiju'--tw j?t"-
rfW
"!'iy?wrplir"
FTTSTAWCriAX ED'ITPOTST .
Wtytt
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituemnn
NIGHT
EXTRA
.-
.PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, JULY 20, 101G.
CoMiionT, lSlft, at ini Puiuo Liwn Cavtkrn.
PRICE ONE CENT
fc &tvtiSrg$Pi,p -?Wwypsv -Tf- W mwi'HPlt(';r'r'
VOL. H. NO. 265
BRITISH WIDEN
LINE OF ATTACK
IN GREAT DRIVE
Win Further Successes in
Picardy Offensive Against
Germans
AUSTRALIANS IN" ACTION
Haig's Troops Recapture Posi
tions 'at Longueval and
Delvillo Wood
LONDON, July 29.
Further success haa been won by the.
Jlrltlsh troops In their renewed offenslvo
ngnlnst the Germnns In Picardy. Tho fight
ing has been extended farther northward
of tho Somme. Australian troops have suc
cessfully raided tho enemy's front for n
dtstanco of two miles and taltcn 140 pris
oners near ArmontlcrcB.
At Longuoval and In Delvillo "Wood the
British havo rccapturod morn of the ground
which tho Germans regained In tholr recent
counter-attaoks. Tho British havo also ad
vanced" northward of Longueval and Ba
zentln. OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
Tho text of tho ofllolal report Issued Into
this afternoon follows:
In Dolvlllo wood and at Longueval
wo regalnod a llttlo more ground. The
strugglo In theso aroas continues.
Northward of tho Longuoval and Ba
zontln positions wo pushed forward this
morning, capturing prisoners and a gun.
Eastward of tho Leipzig redoubt our
bombing parties substantially advanced
dtlrlpg tho night.
Elsewhere In the main battle area
thero Is chiefly artlllerylng. The posi
tions are unaltered.
Last evening south of Armcntlercs
wo made impoitnnt raids on a front of
two miles, tho Australians talcing part.
Ono hundred and forty prisoners
wero captured.
A captured diary belonging to a Ger
man commanding officer shows that
tho Cth Bavarian reserves regiment at
Montauban suffered 5000 casualties out
of a total strength of 3500. Another
document shows n battalion of tho 19th
Regiment lost 980 out of 1100. Tho
other two battalions each lost moro
than half Its strength.
FRENCH RESUME ATTACKS
ON SOMME; CAPTURE NEW
TRENCHES NEAR COMBLES
PARIS, July 20.
Having" successfully withstood a number
of powerful German counter-attacks, the
French resumed the offensive In the Per
onno sector Into yesterday, and the official
communlquo Issued by the Wnr Ofllcp today
stated that they had been very successful.
North of Peronne (Sommo River front),
the French captured a trench and 400 Gor
man prisoners.
First-lino positions on tho front of Bar
leux and Soyecourt wero also taken.
The announcement that lighting has taken
place In the region of Soyecourt shows that
tho French have extended their zone of
operations further south. The captured po
sitions were between Combles and Clcry.
Combles Is about six and one-half miles
north of Peronne and scarcely less Im
portant, than Peronno Itself. It Is on high
ground at the Intersection of many Im
portant roads which stretch awny toward
Cambral, Bapaume, Albert, Bray and Per
onne. Clery Is a little less than four miles
south of Combles, Just north of the Somme
Canal and at the bend of tho Somme River.
Tho capture of the tranches between
Combles and Clery shows that the French
have advanced beyond the Bray-Bapaume
road, which Is evidently firmly In their
hands.
The French continue their attacks on the
Verdun front, tho War Ofllce announced.
They captured a strongly fortified German
work south of Fleury, on the east side of
the Meuse, where they took 150 prisoners.
The text of the official communique fol
lows: On both sides of the Sommo our In
fantry this morning attacked the Ger
man positions and gained a marked ad
' vance. North of the Somme we cap
tured enemy trencheg from Hardecourt
HIU to the rlvaft ss. .aJc;Jed our, h.
;nneclably eBV of ITarwwi along
the railway1, which runs from Combles
to Clery. On that section of the bat
tlefield we have taken up to tho present
400 prisoners.
South of the Somme, between Barleux
and Soyecourt, all the first-line trenches
of the enemy fell into our hands.
In Champagne we penetrated a Ger
man trench northeast of Auberlve and
brought back prisoners.
In the Argonne the Germans at 7 p. m.
yesterday attempted a surprise attack
upon our small posts In the Bolaute
salient After a sharp grenade combat
the enemy was repulsed.
On the left bank of the Meuse the
bombardment continued In the region of
Avocourt and Chattancourt. A battle
Continued on Faze Four, Column Ou
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity I7n
aettled tonight and Friday, with prob
ably showers; moderately warm; in
creaaing northeast to north winds,
jxsani of nAY
Ban rle
Bun seta.
4 48 . m. Moon rlJea.10.S3 p. ns.
1 si p. in. Moon aoutba. 4.30 a. tn.
DELAWARE niVEB TIDE CHANOE3
CHESTNUT STREET
tow wtr. 12.18 a. m. Low watt?. 12.42 p. m.
lUih. water. S.32 a. m. High water. S.03 p; m.
TpMPEltATUKE AT KACU HOUR ,
ifTlaT
LOST AND FOUND
VUPl V Lo. Monday morales'. 8-roootholii
Atndal puppy, male, liberal reward. Phone
Cbeemui tnu nw.
WATCH -Lost. Udya sold watch. Hamilton
maim . w -, . . vnu
U-lmnnt fl9J W lUwtrd.
DOG Lost, iibl Pomeranian
table Pomeranian doff un beach In
tel Cnelaea. Atlantic City, Monday.
T 9- Kelly. 0 Montpeller ave.,
ty N 3
i runt u ivt
AtUntlo City
Othrr Lojt sad l'ouiid Ada on 1'oje It
ONE OF THE GUNS WITH WHICH BRITISH
The British have built hundreds of
these giant howitzers to blast the
way for their present drive, thus
taking n leaf from the German
book of 42-ccntimetrcd terrors.
Tho triple cylinders nbove and bo
low the barrel are recoil cylinders
for checking tho gun's great kick.
In Borne cases they arc filled with
ga9, in others a thick oil.
4
VILLA'S CAPTURE
MATTER OF DAYS,
SAYS CARRANZA
Bandit Leader Located in
Chihuahua, Reports Car-
ranza War Office
TROOPS SENT FOR HIM
Four Cavalry Divisions Dis
patched by Mexico City.
Fierce Battle May Result
MEXICO CITY1, July SO. Announcement
wns mado at the War Ofllco today that
Francisco Villa had been located and that
his capture at an early dato was probable.
A messenger from Villa, It was atatedniad
been Intercepted at Chihuahua City, whither
ho had gono to seek Japanese doctors ti
give medical aid to hla chief. According to
tho story told by the captured messenger,
Villa has had ono of his legi amputated.
Four divisions of cavalry, the War Ofllce
stated, wero Immediately sent out to cap
ture Villa, who was believed to havo small
chanca of escape.
This announcement seems to make little
of a report that Vllllstas In force are
menacing Chihuahua City.
Official opinion here 1b that all danger
of International complications will cease
with tho capture of Villa, It being an
easy matter to deal with other bandits.
The suggestion that Mexico obtain a
large loan In the United States Is finding
much favor In official nnd business circles
here. Government leaders feel that' with
tho currency guaranteed thero will be
a marked change for the better. Over
charging by merchants is generally attrib
uted to the instability of the currency.
Minister of Finance Cabrera said to
day that the money question alone was
troubling the Government, adding that
rif the proposed American-Mexican peace
conference resulted In this country se
curing a foreign loan the whole situation
would become satisfactory. It was IntI-
Continued on Tate Fjour. Column Two
MAN BITES FOUR COPS
IN DEFENSE OF FRIEND
Finally Subdued With His Com
panion When Bullet Strikes
Him in the Breast
Four policemen were bitten by a man
near 28th and Jackson streets In a right
early today. All the bluecoats are con
nected with the J7Ui district substation
there.
Those Injured were Sergeant Gallagher
and Policemen Beverlge, Archdeacon and
Gurt.
The biter, who Is In St Agnes' Hospital
with a bullet wound In his breast, Is Steve
Llsok, of 8836 Jackson street.
Only two others figure in the story
IJaok'a friend, John Slnko, who lives across
the street from him, and Policeman Ray,
the only representative of the law who was
not bitten.
Beverlge arrested Slnko at 3 o'clock for
some misdemeanor. After submitting, Slnko
began to argue his arrest. He got so recaW
pltrant that the policeman decided to use
force and ooout inai urns uiaun uum
along. Beverlge was handling the two of
them as best ha could, when suddenly, eo
, nea testified today, Llsok went crazy
j ..... tn t.ft f?a hit Beverliro on the
hands and neck, and then the other police
men were summonea oy reoj- bhuib.
Even with reinforcements, thi two men
,...nh iii maniacs, and It was a hard bat
tle to subdue thero. The policemen all suf
fered bites on tne nee ana iiauus.
Magistrate Baker neia oimy in ivu can
. .. T.UnV will cr u liearlnf when
he cornea from the hosplUL The policemen
had tneir otic caufiu wuu v iuuv
Ids to their duties as usual.
" r-hoto by T. N. 3 M' s l aLWBLlWBBBaa&liw ,
hn - T MiiiitSeii i i Hi 'BKruMfrTiii a
Wk. -v .7 vf Niv. - WIUWPVH ' VqCTaass'aessswPSeslMMB
CINCINNATI MANAGER
McGraw Visits Moguls in Red
land, Where Deal Is
Put Through
CHRISTIE MATHEWSON
CINCINNATI, O., July 20 Christy
Mathewson, for IB years a member of the
New York Giants' pitching staff, today was
appointed manager of tho Cincinnati Reds.
The deal has been In the balance for more
than n week, and continual rumors that
tho famous Giant t wirier would be the
next manager of tho Reds were verified
when Manager McQraw, of the Giants, and
Garry Herrmann, of Cincinnati, held a
special conference here this morning and
named "Big Six" the new Reds' leader.
Cincinnati has been a Jinx town for man
agers, nnd In tho last ten years has made
many changes. Clarke Griffith, Hank
O'Day, Joe Tinker and Ilerzog nil tried
their hands at pennant winning in tho
Teuton stronghold, but were failures.
The Reds get Bill McKechnle, third base
man, and Ed Rousch, outfielder, In addition
to Mathewson. Besides Ilerzog, Wade
Klltefer goes to the Giants.
It was announced "no strings" are at
tached to the deal for Mathewson.
HINT OF SUICIDE PACT
INBOSTON LOVE TANGLE
Poison, Physician Believes, Killed
Dr. Adams, Central Fig
ure in Tragedy
BOSTON, July 20. A theory that Dr.
Cella Paine Adams, the Brookllne oateo.
path and central figure In Boston's love
triangle, may have died In a suicide pact,
came today to add to the perplexing feat
ures which have made the case the most
remarkable in Massachusetts police annals.
That a mysterious poison, not morphine
alone, caused her death. Is the police con
vlctlon following Medical Examiner
UcGrath's announcement of the results of
his autopsy.
The Internal organs taken from the
young woman's body have been sent to an
expert for analysis to determine the na
ture of the poison.
Dr, Clifford D. Harvey, the first physician
called after Miss Adams had been found
unconscious, thinks It possible that she was
the victim of a suicide pact.
Dr, Harris, victim of Dr. Eldrldge Del
Atwood, is at City Hospital. Physicians
say he has a slight chance to recover.
Wlnthrop Adams, brother of the dead
woman, asserts that At wood's alleged con
fession as to Doctor Harris' having be
trayed his sister is nothing but a "cow.
ardly and dastardly prevarication, trumped
up to pave his way for public sympathy
and a later possible temporary Insanity
plea to save him from the electric chair."
Plague Spreads In Massachusetts
TSitdTtxr Itilv ?ft A 11 r.i-nrf1ft for ruis
BVAV4'I -v --- -- - -w b.v
cases of Infantile paralysis were broken to
ken to
s State
In the
153.
day -when 11 were reporiea io me
Board of Htaitn. -ine wi numoer
Sjtate, reported during the month was
jttsjjjfiis niTJiMftMHiiilf
L?'Jt'f.-y'''(??f'V'j'vf' M!T " -.r . . . ." '.fi
ARE POUNDING FOE
COUNCILS BEGIN
APPROPRIATING
LOAN PROCEEDS
Million Each for Sewers and
Paving Provided by
Bills PARKWAY, NINE MILLION
Vast Improvements in Nearly
Every Department Mado Pos
sible by Funds' Distribution
High Points in Councils'
Busy Closing Session
EXPENDITURES of $0,000,000
for purchase of property and
completion of Parkway authorized.
Street paving nnd repaying
$1,000,000.
Sections of main sewers author
ized in 240 streets $1,000,000.
Ordinance regulating automobile
traffic and prohibiting parking in
centre of city passed with minor
amendments.
Payment of claims against city
under workmen's compensation act
$250,000.
Bridges $760,000.
Payment of cit yemploycs now in
service of United States Government.
1
Councils this afternoon took up for final
action appropriations covering about $1C,
000,000 of the general Improvement loan,
and $9,000,000 for the purchase of property
and work in connection with the Parkway,
and maintenance and deficiency Items un
der the M, 460,797 five-year loan. This was
the last Besslon before summer adjourn
ment. The session began shortly after 1
o'clock, and there was every Indication that
it would require five hours or moro to con
sider tho volume of bills and ordinances
scheduled for passage.
The first measure passed was an appro
priation of Jt, 000, 000 for tho construction
of sections of main sewers in S40 city
streets. Neat In order followed faorable
action upon an appropriation of (750,000
for bridges, to be divided by allowing J400,
000 for a steel and concrete bridge at South
street, 01,000 for a bridge on the line of
Ashbourne Btreet over the Trenton divi
sion of the Pennsylvania Railroad, $46,000
for a bridge on Linden avenue over the
same tracks, $5000 for a foot bridge over
the Pennsylvania tracks at Convent Lake
and $10,000 for a foot bridge at Harvey and
Crescent streets under the tracks of tho
Norrlstown division of the Reading Rail
way. The same legislation Included an Item of
$60,000 to build an approach for a proposed
bridge on the line of 34th street to connect
Cray's Ferry avenue on the cast and Uni
versity avenue on the west of the Schuyl
kill Wver banks. The bridge wll be the
conneoting link between Vara avenue. In
South Philadelphia, which is to be de
veloped southward from Gray's Ferry ave
nue and University avenue, and will bisect
34th street as a direct route to Falrmount
Park. Another bridge la to carry 49th
street over the tracks of the Philadelphia,
Baltimore and Washington Railroad This
bridge will cost the city $60,000. A number
of other smaller bridges were provided, for
In other minor bills.
MANY PAVING BILLS.
Scores of bills for paving and repaying
streets were passed In rapid succession.
The work will be provided for out of the
$1,000,000 for this purpose in the general
loan. A survey of the bills showed that
West Philadelphia received about one-half
of this amount for street Improvements
under the agreement entered Into by
Mayor Smith and the West Philadelphia
Councllmen before the passage of the loan
bills at the special election May 16.
Grading bills involving an outlay on 1Z0
.Cestloutd ea fate Inc. Cahuaa SU
i ii iflilWifi
QUICK
CLEVELAND....
ATHLETICS g.
Beehe and O'Neill; Sheelmn, Myers tuut Meyer nrrt Carioll.
CLEVELAND.... 0
ATHLETICS 2dG-. 0 .
PHILLIES ,stG-. 0 0000
CINCINNATI.. 00000 ,
Alexander and KUlefer; Toitcy and Wingo,
niiLL:ss2dG'. -
CINCINNATI.. 0 '
SAME OLD STORY! A.'S
ATHLETICS r h o
Witt.ss 0 0 1
Walsh, rf 1 1 I
Str-Rn',cf 0 0 0
Lsjoic, 2b 0 0 1
Kclnnfs, lb 1 r. 13
King, If .'.... 0 1 3
TtlcElvce, 3b o 2 t
Meyer, c 0 0 2
Shechan, p 0 0 2
c
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
Totals.
G 27 15 1
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
First race, for 2-year-olds, with $600 added, 5 1-2 furlongs Tom
McTnggart. 118, Taplin, 0 to 20, 1 to 8 and out, won; Tho Knocker,
104, 'J. McTnggart, 5 to 2, 2 to 5 and 1 to 6, second; County Court,
104,Cnmpbell, 15 to 1, 3 to 1 nnd 7 to id, third. Time, 1.074-5.
, BUILDING LAW COMMISSION AUTHORIZED
Mayor Smith was authorized by Common Council tills afternoon
to appoint a commission to lecommend legislation governing tho size,
location and use of buildings all over the city. The commission will
be composed of dlrectois of the various city departments, members
of the Art Jury and representatives of organizations interested in city
development.
D'ANNUNZIO TO VISIT ALLIES' CAPITALS
ROME, July 20. Gabriele d'Annunzlo, the Italian poet, who was
recently wounded at the Isonzo front, is planning a trip to New
ork, London, Paris, Madrid and Lisbon in the interests of war
propaganda.
AMERICANS WARNED FROM MEXICO. REFUGEES SAY
GALVESTON, Tex., July 20. Refugees arriving here today from
Vera Ciuz said Consul Canada had ordered all Americans out of Mex
ico. They said Canada received instructions to that effect Sunday,
despite apparently peaceful conditions.
$80,000,000 SHELL ORDER FOR EUROPE REPORTED CLOSED
NEW VOR.K, July 20. A largo foreign shell order, It la understood, has fc-ten
closed. In view of the very largo amount Involved tn connection with tho trans
action, It is stated, It will bo parceled out to a number of companies, each receiving
several million dollars' worth of the business. It la believed that the total will
reach an amount between 160,000,000 to $80,000,000, or possibly more, tho total de
pending on tho capacity of the plants of the companies accepting contracts. It la
understood the Jlldvule Steel and Ordnance ompany. the Bethlehem Steel Corpora
tion, theAmerlcan Car and Foundry Company, the American Steel Foundries Com
pany, the General Electric Company and othera are bidding for tho business.
WILL PROBE TIGRIS AND DARDANELLES CAMPAIGNS
LONDON, July 20. An official investigation of tho Dardanelles nnd Mesopo
nmian campaigns has been decided upon by the British Government, Premier
Asqultli Informed the House of Commons this afternoon. "I have no desire to
shelter any one responsible for any alleged shortcomings," said the Prime Minister,
replying to recent Insinuations that the Government was attempting to shelve the
requests for an investigation.
31 DEATHS DAY'S TOLL OP NEW YORK PARALYSIS
NEW YORK, July 20. An increase In the number of Infantile paralysis deaths
from 30 to 31 in the last 34 hours, as compared with the previous, 24 hours, was
reported' today. The number of cases, however, decreased to 119, as compared with
143 for the previous 21 hours. r
i '
SWEDISH AIRMEN KILLED BY 300-FOOT FALL
STOCKHOLM, Sweden, July 20. Two Swedish flight lieutenants named
Mannstroem and Krus were killed wh.en their machine fell 300 feet.
AUTOMQBILISTS OBJECT TO FERRY FARE
Automobile clubs and prominent business Arms will bring a complaint before
the Interstate Commerce Commission in the matter of ferry fares for vehicles. The
earnings of the ferry company are 38 per cent . according to William Carey Mar
shall, an attorney, who believes there Is little doubt that the Interstate Commerce
Commission wlU give an early hearing; .
NEWS
0 30 0 0100 0- 4 0 2
0100000012 0 1
DROP FIRST TO INDIANS
CLEVELAND r h o a c
Graney.H 112 0 0
Wambsganss,2b... 0 2 5 5
Speaker, cf 0 110
Roth.rf 0 111
Gandil, lb l o 15
Chapman, ss 0 117
Turner, 3b ." 0 0 0 2
O'Neill.c 12 2 1
Bcebe.p '. 110 2
Totals 4 9 27 18 2
SPOTLESS CITY
MAYOR'S PLAN,
HE ANNOUNCES
Recent Raid Only Beginning
of Clean-up, Smith
Asserts
"ALL CRIMINALS MUST GO"
Grand Jury Ordered to Probe
Vice Conditions Director
Wilson Leaves Town i
Today's Developments
in Police Shakcup
MAYOR SMITH conferred with
Congressman Vnro in nn effort
to fix responsibility for conditions.
Judgo Rogers, of Common Fleas
Court, told the Grand Jury it had
tho right to investigate tho vice con
ditions. Several persons arrested in Sat
urday's raid brought suit against the
city and Lnw nnd Order Society.
Mayor Smith declared ho would
issuo a statement Into this after
noon on the entire situation.
Director Wilson left tho city sud
denly. Ho will not return until tho
early part of next week.
Following his conference with Con
grcssman Varc on the vice situation,
Mayor Smith this afternoon gave out
the following statement:
"I propose to make Philadelphia the
cleanest city in the country.
"The recent crusade was but the be
ginning of n clean-up that will rid tho
city of criminals and of crime. Direc
tor Wilson has my fullest confidence.
He also has the ability, the desire and
the intention to bring about the result
that we arc both determined to achieve
"This administration will not divulge) .
its plans in connection with police busi
ness, regardless of the severity of the
criticism of its methods employed to
enforce the iaw. We are not playing
politics, but arc doing that which wo
believe to be our duty, and we -stand
ready to be Judged by results.
r "I shall havo no further stntci,
make on this subject" " '""
Developments of today In the vice situa
tion Indlcato that drastic action will be
takon within a few hours to determine who
Is actually responsible for the vicious con
ditions existing In many parts of the, city.
Action started with conferences between
Mayor Smith nnd Senator Vare, where the
uhole mattor was threshed out behind
closed doors.
Director Wilson Is out of the city. There
was a persistent rumor around City Hall
this afternoon that he had resigned. Those
close to the Director declined to make
any comment when questioned as to the
truth of this report. Information concern
ing his whereabouts was refused at the
Director's office.
Mrs. Wilson, wife of the Director, said
he left the city yesterday with a party of
friends to attend and participate in the
golf tournament which Is being held at
Shawnee, near Stroudsburg. He is not
expected to return until Sunday. Mrs. Wil
son said ho was taking a llttlo vacation.
Judge Rogers, of the Common Please
Court No. 1, assembled the Grand Jury
and told the members It was their impera
tive duty to summons politicians, officials
and any other persons who, In their opinion,
could throw light on conditions.
Complications have been added to the
situation by the suits brought against the
city and the Law and Order Society by
Wesley J, Nlcoll, of 1.18 Winter street,
who asserted he was unjustly arrested la
the spectacular raid of Saturday.
JUDGD nOGEIlS' CHARGE.
The attitude of Judge Rogers In laying
the situation before the jurymen Indicated
that he favored rigid Investigation. Ha
declared that the conditions of immorality
were Intolerable, and especially deplored the
revival of the policy game, which he branded
as one of the worst forms of gambling.
Judge Rogers' remarks, verbatim, are
as follows;
'Gentlemen of the Grand Jury, the' court
has sent for you to direct your attention to
a condition of affairs existing tn Philadel
phia, according to the publla prints, which
lmolves not only the good name of the
clty.'but of Its high officers as well.
"You will havo before you for considera
tion cases sent to you 'by the District At
torney in charge, of men who have been
either keeping and maintaining disorderly
houses or lining upon the earnings of
women. Such a condition Is Intolerable,
and I direct your attention to aurh cases,
Involving those who keep and maintain such
houses, and the men, as I have heretofore
remarked, who receive, money from such
sources.
"You have the right, as Grand Jurors, ta
summon before you, If you deslry to do so.
the proper officers of the city and county,
or any other person the District Attorney
may elect to produce before you, and upon
the proper presentation to indict tha owners
and agents of the real fttata In which, dis
orderly houses are conducted, as well aa
the proprietors of the tame,
"There Is another widespread evil, aa It
appears from the publlo prints; that la. U
say, it Is charged that gambling Is being
conducted, presumably under protection, so
called. You have the right, as Grand Jum
ors. to subpoena, and to have before you la
atteodance every official, high or low, con
nected wlta the pollc4 or other depdrtiaeRt,
tfc.it you pay feel jusunea in calilny bs-
!
u
