FEDERALJOAD LAW
$75,000,000 for Five-Year Period
$5,000,000 Available for Year
Ending June 30, 1917.
Engineering and Inspection Not to Ex-
ceed 10 Per CentAdministration
Not to Exceed Three Per Cent.
Thanks to the courtesy of Senator
Nelson the Union is enabled to give
the full text of the Federal road law.
The sum of $75,000,000 is appro
priated to cover a period of five years:
$5,000,000 will be available for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1917
$10,000,000 for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1918 $15,000,000 for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1919 $20,-
000,000 for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1920 and $25,000,000 for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1921.
The cost of administration is lim
ited to three per cent of the appropria
tion for any fiscal year. Inspection,
engineering and other overhead ex
penses are limited to 10 per cent of
the total estimated cost of the work.
The work done must be of a sub
stantial character, and roads con
structed under the provisions of the
act must be properly maintained or
further Federal aid will be denied to
the state or civil subdivision affected.
Federal aid will be granted only to
the extent of 50 per cent of the cost
of construction, and not to exceed
$10,000 per mile.
Hr is the bill that the conference
comi. iees of the house and senate
finally agreed upon and as it passed
both branches of the national legis
lature and was approved by the presi
dent.
Sec. 1. That the Secretary of Agri
culture is authorized to co-operate
with the states, through their respec
tive state highway departments, in
the construction of rural post roads
but no money apportioned under this
act to any state shall be expended
therein until its legislature shall have
assented to the provisions of this act,
except that, until the final adjourn
ment of the first regular session of the
legislature held after the passage of
this act, the assent of the governor of
the state shall be sufficient. The sec
Tetary of agriculture and the state
highway department of each state
shall agree upon the roads to be con
structed therein and the character and
method of construction Provided, that
all roads constructed under the pro
visions of this set shall be free from
tolls of all kinds.
Sec. 2. That for the purpose of this
act the term "rural post road" shall be
construed to mean any public road
over which the United States mails
now are or may hereafter be trans
ported, excluding- every street and road
in a place having- a population, as
shown by the latest available Federal
census, of 2,500 or more, except that
portion of any such street or road
along which the houses average more
than 200 feet apart the term "state
highway department" shall be con
strued to include any department of
another name, or commission, or of
ficial or officials, of a state empowered,
under its laws, to exercise the func
tions^ ordinarily exercised by a state
highway department the term "con
struction" shall be construed to in
clude reconstruction and improvement
of roads "properly maintained" as
used herein shall be construed to mean
the making of needed repairs and the
preservation of a reasonable smooth
surface considering the type of the
road, but shall not be held to include
extraordinary repairs, nor reconstruc
tion necessary bridges and culverts
shall be deemed parts of the respective
roads covered by the provisions of
this act.
Sec. 3. That for the purpose of car
rying out the provisions of this act
there is hereby appropriated, out of
any money in the treasury not other
wise appropriated, for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1917, the sum of
$5,000,000 for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1918, the sum of $10,000,000
for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1919, the sum of 815,000,000 for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1920, the
sum of $20,000,000 and for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1921, the sum of
$25,000,000. So much of the appro
priation apportioned to any state for
any fiscal year as remains unexpended
at the close thereof shall be available
for expenditure in that state until the
close of the succeeding fiscal year, ex
cept that amounts apportioned for any
fiscal year to any state which has not
a state highway department shall be
available for expenditure in that state
until the close of the third fiscal year
succeeding the dose of the fiscal year
^^Pf?
y. ~^f /-5v ?1|^f^ f*f
Minn. Historical. Society
for which such apportionment was
made. Any amount apportioned un
der the provisions of this act unex
pended at the end of the period during
which it is available for expenditure
under the terms of this section shall
be reapportioned, within sixty days
thereafter, to all the states in the
same manner and on the same basis,
and certified to the secretary of the
treasury and the state highway de
partments and to the governors of
the states having no state highway
departments in the same way as if it
were being apportioned under this act
for the first time: Provided, that in
states where the constitution prohibits
the state from engaging *n any work
of internal, improvements, then the
amount of the appropriation under
this act apportioned to any such state
shall be turned over to the highway
department of the state or to the
governor of said state to be expended
under the provisions of this act and
under the rules and regulations of the
department of agriculture, when any
number of counties in any such state
shall appropriate or provide the pro
portion or share needed to be raised
in order to entitle such state to its
part of the appropriation apportioned
under this act.
Sec. 4. That so much, not to exceed
three per centum, of the appropriation
for any fiscal year made by or under
this act as the secretary of agricul
ture may estimate to be necessary for
administering the provisions of this
act shall be deducted for that purpose,
available until expended. Within 60
days after the close of each fiscal year
the secretary of agriculture shall de
termine what part, if any, of the sums
theretofore deducted for administer
ing the provisions of this act will not
be needed for that purpose and appor
tion such part, if any, for the fiscal
year then current in the same manner
and on the same basis, and certify it
to the secretary of the treasury and to
the state highway departments, and
to the governors of the states having
no state highway departments, in the
same way as other amounts authorized
by this act to be apportioned arnong
all the states for such current fiscal
year. The secretary of agriculture,
after making the deduction authorized
by this section, shall apportion the
remainder of the appropriation for
each fiscal year among the several
states in the following manner: One
third in the ratio which the area of
each state bears to the total area of all
the states one-third in the ratio
which the population of each state
bears to the total population of all the
states, as shown by the latest availa
ble federal census one-third in the
ratio which the mileage of rural de
livery routes and star routes in each
state bears to the total mileage of
rural delivery routes and star routes
in all the states, at th* close of the
next preceding fiscal year, as shown
by the certificate of the postmaster
general, which he is directed to make
and furnish annually to the secretary
of agriculture.
Sec. 5. That within sixty days after
the approval of this act the secretary
of agriculture shall certify to the sec
retary of the treasury and to each
state highway department and to the
governor of each state having no state
highway department the sum which
he has estimated to be deducted for
administering the provisions of this
act and the sum which he has appor
tioned to each state for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1917, and on or before
January 20th next preceding the com
mencement of each succeeding fiscal
year shall make like certificates for
such fiscal year.
Sec. 6. That any state desiring to
avail itself of the benefits of this act
shall, by its state highway depart
ment, submit to the secretary of agri
culture project statements setting
forth proposed construction of any
rural post road or roads therein. If
the secretary of agriculture approve a
project, the state highway department
shall furnish to him such surveys,
plans, specifications, and estimates
therefor as he may require. Provided,
however, that the secretary of agricul
ture shall approve only such projects
as may be substantial in character
and the expenditure of funds hereby
authorized shall be applied only on
such improvements. Items included
for engineering, inspections, and un
foreseen contingencies shall not ex
ceed ten per centum of the total esti
mated cost of the work. If the secre
tary of agriculture approve the
plans, specifications, and estimates,
he shall notify the state highway de
partment and immediately certify the
fact to the secretary of the treasury.
The secretary of the treasury shall
thereupon set aside the share of the
United States payable under this act
on account of such project, which
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1916.
shall not exceed fifty per centum of
the total estimated cost thereof. No
payment of any money apportioned
under this act shall be made on any
project until such statement of the
project, and the plans, specifications,
and estimates therefor, shall have been
submitted to and approved by the sec
retary of agriculture.
When the secretary of agriculture
shall find that any project so ap
proved by him has been constructed
in compliance with said plans and
specifications he shall cause to be paid
to the proper authority of said state
the amount set aside for said project:
Provided, that the secretary of agri
culture may, in his discretion, from
time to time make payments on said
construction as the same progresses,
but these payments, including
previous payments, j any, shall not
be more than the United States' pro
rata part of the value of the labor and
materials which have been actually
put into said construction in conform
ity to said plans and specifications
nor shall any such payment be in ex
cess of $10,000 per mile, exclusive of
the cost of bridges of more than twen
ty feet clear span. The construction
work and labor in each state shall be
done in accordance with its laws, and
under the direct supervision of the
state highway department, subject to
the inspection and approval of the sec
retary of agriculture and in accord
ance with the rules and regulations
made pursuant to this act.
The secretary of agriculture and the
state highway department of each
state may jointly determine at what
times, and in what amounts, payments,
as work progresses, shall be made un
der this act. Such payments shall be
made by the secretary of the treasury,
on warrants drawn by the secretary
of agriculture, to such official, or offi
cials, or depository, as may be des
ignated by the state highway depart
ment and authorized under the laws
of the state to receive public funds of
the state or county.
Sec. 7. To maintain the roads con
structed under the provisions of this
act shall be the duty of the states, or
their civil subdivisions, according to
the laws of the several states. If at
ony time the secretary of agriculture
shall find that any road in any state
constructed under the provisions of
this act is not being properly main
tained he shall give notice of such fact
to the highway department of such
state, and if within-four months from
the receipt of said notice said road
has not been put in a proper condition
of maintenance then the secretary of
agriculture shall thereafter refuse to
approve any project for road construc
tion in said state, or the civil sub
division thereof, as the fact may be.
whose duty it is to maintain said road
tmtil it has been put in a condition of
proper maintenance.
Sec. 8. That there is hereby appro
priated and made available until ex
pended, out of any moneys in the
national treasury not otherwise ap
propriated, the sum of $1,000,000 for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917,
and each fiscal year thereafter, up to
and including the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1926, in all $10,000,000, to
be available until expended under the
supervision of the secretary of agri
culture, upon request from the proper
officers of the state, territory or county
for the survey, construction, and main
tenance of roads and trails within or
only partly within the national forests,
when necessary for the use and devel
opment of resources upon which com
munities within and adjacent to the
national forests are dependent: Pro
vided, that the state, territory oi
county shall enter into a co-operative
agreement with the secretary of agri
culture for the survey, construction,
and maintenance of such roads or
trails upon a basis equitable to both
the state, territory, or county, and the
United States: And provided also,
that the aggregate expenditures in
any state, territory or county shall
not exceed ten per centum of the val
ue, as determined by the secretary of
agriculture, of the timber and forage
resources which are or will be avail
able for income upon the national for
est lands within the respective county
or counties wherein the roads or trails
will be constructed and the secretary
of agriculture shall make annual re
port to congress of the amounts ex
pended hereunder.
That immediately upon the execu
tion of any co-operative agreement
hereunder the secretary of agricul
ture shall notify the secretary of the
treasury of the amount to be expended
by the United States within or ad
jacent to any national forest thereun
der, and beginning with the next fiscal
year and each fiscal year thereafter
the secretary of the treasury shall ap
ply from any and all revenues from
V"V
such forest ten per centum thereof
to reimburse the United States for ex
penditures made under such agree
ment until the whole amount advanced
under such agreement shall have been
returned from the receipts from such
national forest.
Sec. 9. That out of the appropria
tions made by or under this act, the
secretary of agriculture is authorized
to employ such assistants, clerks, and
other persons in the city of Washing
ton and elsewhere, to be taken from
the eligible lists of the civil service
commission, to rent buildings outside
of the city of Washington, to purchase
such supplies, material, equipment,
office fixtures, and apparatus, and to
incur such travel and other expense as
he may deem necessary for carrying
out the purposes of this act.
Sec. 10. That the secretary of agri
culture is authorized to make rules
and regulations for carrying out the
provisions of this act.
Sec. 11. That this act shall be in
force from the date of its passage.
Another Old Veteran Gone.
George Young, a pioneer resident of
this village, wandered away from his
home in north Princeton Friday after
noon and perished in the Oxbow slough
southeast of the village.
Mr. Young had acted strangely for
some time prior to taking his last
walk, and it was not unusual for him
to stroll away from his home and re
main several rjours. fle was 77 years
old.
When the old gentleman failed to
appear at supper time his relatives
became alarmed and later in the night
a search party was organized. On
Saturday morning the villagers gen
erally learned of the disappearance. A
party made up of numerous of our
citizens left the village Saturday at
1:30 p. m., and headed for the Oxbow
slough, as Mr. Young had been seen
in that vicinity the previous after
noon. Fred, the oldest son of de
ceased, who was one of the party, dis
covered the body a half hour after
leaving the village in the slough
wherein he had fallen as he wandered
after darkness had set in. He was
probably in the mud and water of the
slough all night and nearly all day
before he was found.
The funeral services were held ?t
the home of his son, Fred Young,
Monday afternoon. It was conducted
by members of G. A. R. Post, who
used their ritualistic work. It is an
impressive ceremony. Three fitting
hymns were sung by Mrs. Clair Caley,
Myrtle Nelson and Guy Ewing, Miss
Svarry as organist. The old veterans
acted as pallbearers. Autos and teams
were supplied for the old soldiers who
attended the remains to the burial
ground.
George Young was a quiet, unob
trusive citizen, and his passing re
moves another one of the old veterans
that the people of this city venerate
and respect more than any class of
our community.
He leaves a widow, Mrs. Fannie
Young, four sons, Fred Bert, Clarence
and William Young, all residents here.
The Third Complimented.
Louis L. Collins in Minneapolis Jour
nal: In Camp at Llano Grande, Mer
cedes, Texas, July 18.Brigadier
General James Parker, U. S. A., com
mander of 25,000 troops in the Browns
ville district, walked through the camp
of the Third Minnesota at Llano
Grande, Monday, and said, "Good."
That was all General Parker, who is
known in the army as "Jim,'' who
doesn't believe in red tape, and who
hasn't even established a censorship
over his district, said, but it was more
than he usually said.
It meant that he was satisfied with
the way the Minnesota regiment had
built its camp, and as the word was
passed along the line the men who
have been sweating at the tent ditches
at Llano Grande felt something has
been accomplished.
St. Cloud Wants to Hog It All.
The Jefferson highway from St.
Paul to Winnipeg will cover three
routes, the loop plan having been
adopted. The eastern and western
routes were selected, with a connect-'
ing link between Sauk Center and
Itasca park.Journal Press, 13.
All of which is premature and un
true. The above was merely the rec
ommendation of the State Highway
commission, which does not decide as
to the route. It is a recommendation
brought about by a political pull,
largely through the influence of the
Sage of Princeton. Feeling that the
western route was in every respect
superior and would be selected this
recommendation was secured.
The Jefferson highway commission,
represented by Mr. Clarkson, an
nounced the method by which THE
S 'tuts?,?,- *--*,ss-w
route would be selectednot two or
three routes, but THE route. Mr.
Clarkson should, and we believe will,
faithfully carry out his pronounced
plan.
The western route is by every pos
sible consideration the most superior.
To fix .up two routes with connect
ing links would be-a farce and a com
plete reversal of the Jefferson High
way association's announced plan as
given out by Mr. Clarkson. There
should be only one Jefferson highway.
St. Cloud Times.
Annual School Meeting.
Considerable interest was manifest
ed in the annual school meeting last
Saturday evening. Two directors
were to be elected to succeed J. J.
Skahen and Fred Newton, both of
whom had declined to become candi
dates for another term.
There were two tickets in the field
and A. B. Gramer*s name appeared on
both of them the other candidates were
Elmer E. Whitney and William Kaliher
the latter reluctantly permitted the
use of his name at the eleventh hour.
There were 327 votes cast Mr. Gra
mer received 316, Mr. Whitney 240,
and Mr. Kaliher 92, hence the two
former were declared duly elected
directors of Independent School Dis
trict No. 1 for the term of three
years.
The judges of election were J. J.
Skahen and Dr. D. A. McRae, Ira G.
Stanley acted as clerk.
The only disagreeable and regret
table feature incident to the annual
school meeting was the circulation of
an anonymous circular. The party
who caused the anonymous screed to
be circulated through the mail evident
ly labored under the impression that
Mr. Skahen would be a candidate for
re-election, although that gentleman
had previously informed his friends
that under no circumstances would he
consent to permit the use of his name.
He had served as secretary of the
school board for 12 years, and to the
entire satisfaction of his colleagues
and the publicupon the secretary de
volves the major share of the work of
the school board. The district will be
fortunate, indeed, if the next secretary
of the board performs the duties of
the onerous and thankless position as
well and as faithfully as Mr. Skahen
has.
Kaliher-Alstadt.
The Northome Record of June 30th
tells of the marriage at Red Lake Falls
three days previous of Herbert Syl
vester Kaliher and Blanche Anna Al
stadt. The young couple will be at
home at Northome after Aug. 1.
The Record has this to say of the
bride and groom: "The bride ha&
taught school in Wildwood and North
ome the past four years and has en
deared herself to all who know her by
her winsome manner =nc womanly
graces. The groom is a clean cut, up
right, hustling young business man,
engaged in handling forest products,
with headquarters in Northome for
the past two years."
Mr. Kaliher is the youngest son of
the late Dennis Kaliher of this place.
The Union joins with its best wishes
for the young couple.
That Jefferson Highway.
A number of automobiles started
from St. Joseph, Mo., yesterday to run
over the Jefferson highway to St. Paul
and will probably reach that city Sun
day. Just which route the tourists will
follow from St. Paul to Winnipeg has
not been determined. It is possible that
the eastern route may be taken, and
it may be that the excursionists will
make the loop.
Mr. Clarkson has written the secre
tary of the state highway commission
that the route of the Jefferson high
way from Elk River north will not be
definitely determined upon until after
the completion of the sociability run.
The maintenance crews should again
get busy in Sherburne, Mille Lacs and
Crow Wing counties.
Farewell Party Honor Mrs. C. Rines.
Again the "Girls" of the 60's" have
been "dissipating," this time at the
home of Mrs. Evelyn Keith. Eight
were present at the party which was
given especially as a farewell to Mrs.
Christina Rines who left for her home
in California after a four weeks' visit
in our midst.
As always, with Mrs. Keith for
hostess, the cosy little home was de
lightfully "homey" and the refresh
ments dainty and delicious. Except
for the forced absence of some of our
members and the prospective de
parture of Mrs. Rines whom we would
like to keep always with us, the meet
ing was one of the most enjoyable in
our history.
''fc./,
,wm^% i
5
VOLUME XL. NO. 31
BOYS ON THE BORDER
Third Regiment Encamped at Llano
Grande, Only Six Miles From
the Mexican Border.
The Boys Were Five Days On the
RoadHandsomely Treated at
San Antonio, Texas.
Llano Grande, Texas, July 16.
Well, we're here! Horse, foot, bag
gage, Company and everything else
dumped in a conglomerated heap on
part of Old Mexicothat is, Texas
now, but used to be Old Mexico. We
are located at Llano Grande, which
translated from the Mexican means "a
grand land and lots of it." (This is
taken from Quartermaster Holland
er's official translationwe vouch for
it not.) Anyhow, there are lots of
men in khaki herescattered around
like ants. This Llano Grande place is
on the Gulf Coast railroad, about 35
miles northwest of Brownsville and
about six miles from the border.
(Maybe the censor won't let this by,
but we'll put it in anyhow so the
Princeton folks can find us if they
want to next Sunday.)
Leaving Fort Snelling at 1:30 Mon
day afternoon, July 10, we reached
our final destination at 10 a. m. Satur
day, July 15. It was a long ride but
as far as we observed it was a trip
that was thoroughly enjoyed by every
man in the company. The Chicago &
Great Western hauled our battalion to
Kansas City, which we reached about
7 p. m. Tuesday. At 8 p. m. we pulled
out over the Kansas City & Southern
and reached Texarcana Wednesday
about midnight. Up to this time Com
pany G's home had been in two N. P.
day coaches, but as these were modern
service cars, clean, well ventilated and
well equipped, and by a little shifting
of the backs of seats and cushions
could be converted into a first-class
sleeping car, the boys fared and slept
well.
At Texarcana, Texas, the company
was transferred to sleepers and fin
ished their journey in these cars, which
were very convenient and comfortable.
Company fared well on this trip
compared with what was handed to
some of the troops of other states
old obsolete day coaches, dug up from
the railroad boneyard to help knock
off a slice of Uncle Sam's transporta
tion mileage book.
At Longview, Texas, the troop train
was held up for about eight hours
owing to a wreck along the line, and
this brought a small sized army to
gether in the railroad yards at that
place. There were Wisconsin, New
York, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and
Minnesota troops all hung up together,
and they wasted no time in getting
acquainted and comparing notes.
The next stop was made at San An
tonio, Texas. Here the troops were
taken care of by the Red Cross society
of San Antonio aided by the boy
scouts. Each man was given a gen
erous slice of brick ice cream, figs and
peaches, and a postal card to write
home on. This was the only city we
passed through where anything of this
nature was pulled off. In the other
places there were fruits, drinks etc.,
to be hadfor a consideration.
Saturday was taken up in making
camp, pitching tents and getting
things as comfortable as possible. A
continuation of this process is going
on this Sunday morning. It will take
considerable work to get the camp in
ship-shape as parts of it are pretty
rough.
Saturday evening most of the com
pany hiked to a little lake about 2%
miles from camp and washed the dust
and dirt of a long five days' trip from
their persons and clothing. It was a
pretty lake with good bathing facili
ties and the boys enjoyed their plunge
as they had never done before. A
somewhat serious aspect was given to
this little trip when orders came along
that one squad would have to go
armed and the men would have to
keep together. This hike brought us
2Vz miles closer to the border and
this is as near as we have been to
that much talked of "border" although
we have already seen all kinds and
descriptions of Mexicans in Texas. We
even have quite a few of them work
ing around camp as teamsters and
laborers.
All well and happy with Company
so far.
At San Antonio part of the com
pany paid a visit to the historic old
Alamo and saw the place where David
Crockett, James Bowie and the other
brave Americans with them gave up
their liyes for the freedom of Texas,
and thereby made themselves im
mortal. MIKE.
?4-
^s^^^m^m^^^^^^yiSif^^^yssm^^^m^^y^ Jt'v: *^\^*^migmfm&
1
4
*2
^P
-A **u *jj 3!
"^-Jf
i
i%
*f!
4-
