THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
in
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
9 iNIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JULY 20, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 63
HENT.O
TROUBLE CHUNG SOOH
fiTPnrinPTT in
iJJuJL JiluUj
I
EX
CAN
j& jr j? s& j&
French And British Still Hammering Germans Along Somme
GERiANS GAIN SHORT LID
ITORI IN LOU VILLAGE
AND IN THE DELVILLE WOOD
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
There has been no abatement in the sanguinary struggle between the
British and Germans south of the Somme which began Tuesday after a
German bombardment and an attack by heavy infantry forces which gave
to the Teutons parts of the village of Logueval and Oelville wood.
In counter attacks Tuesday the British succeeded in regaining most of the
territory they had lost and in addition dispersed with their artillery fire a
large body of Germans who were massing for another attack to the south of
Delvillo wood. Hard fighting is still going on in this sector. To the south
of the Somme the French report the capture of several German trenches.
Around Verdun in the region of Hill 304 and on Felury sector- the
Germans are heavily bombarding the French positions probably presag
ing the usual infantry attacks.
The Russians in the vicinity of Riga are hammering hard with infantry!
and artillery Field Marshal Von Hindenburg's forces, but according to Ber-1
lin, all their attacks thus far have tailed with heavy losses. Farther south,
in Volhynia, the Russians along the Stokhold river and to the west and
southwest of Lutsk, are heavily bombarding the positions of the Teutonic
allies. While Petrograd asserts that the Russians in Galicia are advancing
toward the passes of the Carpathian mountains leading to the plains of
Hungary, Vienna says that to the west of Delatyn the Austrians have driven
the Russians across the river Pruth.
German naval aircraft have dropped a large number of bombs on Re
vail, in the Gulf of Finland, and caused, according to Berlin, damage to
Russian cruisers, troop boats and submarines in the gulf and to military
establishments on land.
In Asia Minor, south of Trebizond, additional gains for the Russians
against the Turks are chronicled by Petrograd while Constantinople reports
rlight successes for the Turkish armies against the British along the Eu
phrates river and north of the Persian gulf near Basra. In addition, the
Turks are declared to have defeated the Italians in northern Tripoli, at
Misratah.
I WILSON'S REQUEST TO ,
BE SENT TO CAUCUS
j WASHINGTON, July 19. Pr.'s-
ident Wilson's request that the
j child labor bill ho passed by the j
senate before adjournment of
j congress will be submitted to a j
j caucus of senate democrats to be
held probably next Tuesday right, j
j The democratic steering commit-
tee held a short sosflon today to
I consider the request, but decided
! it was powerless to chant;e the
legislative program agrred upon
by the democratic caucus last j
j wefk, placing child labor legisla-
lion in a secondary position
j where it has little chance of com-
ing up by August 19, the date
agreed on for adjournment. The
committee will meet again Friday
I to set a date for another caucus. I
German Aircraft Haig Announces
Bombard Revel
Making Many Hits
Lost Ground Has
Been Recovered
PARTJ LIKELY
Tl
L DILL IS
VOTE ED
UP
NATIONAL GUARD NOT
IMPROPERLY RATIONED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire Sam Houston. Will mail report to
WASHINGTON, July 19. The war day. Finished inspection of Virginia
FfltlHIi'
iirnnTiiTinim
PROGRESSING
I
in
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 19. The British
troops have recaptured in the village
Republican A. P. Leases Wire
BERLIN. July 19. (By wireless to
Sayville) The bombardment by the
German naval a.rcran oi ioe ' f)f u,nglieVal and Delville wood most of
harbor of Bevel on the Cult of Hula nd h
last night was announced today hy . the ground taken by the Germans
the German admiralty. j Tuesday night, according to thu Brit-
Bombs were dropped on cruisers and lsn 0ffjciul communication issued to
other warships, numerous hits being nient. nar(j fighting is still in prog
observed, one submarine being seen res3 in tms reKion.
to have been hit four times. J when General Haig's afternoon re-
The Russians have been strongly re- ,ort was dispatched from headquar
inforced along the front south and tf.r3 in France the violent fighting
southwest of Riga at the northern end vnich, developing from the German
of the Russian lines and have been counter-attack, had been going on all
heavily attacking Field Marshal von night, and had given the Germans a
Hindenburg's forces there. The as- fuoting in Delville wood and Longue
saults, however, all failed, the Russians va Htjil was j progrfess. The Ger
suffering unusually severe losses. I man attacks on the Waterlot farm and
The official statement on operations other points were repulsed,
on the eastern front says: j In a brief dispatch tonight General
"Army group of Field Marshal von Haig announced that most of the
Hindenburg: South and southwest of ground thus lost had been regained in
Riga our brave regiments repulsed re- both places and that the British fire
peated attacks by Russians, delivered had dispersed the Germans massing for
with strengthened forces, only to break a further . attack on Waterlot farm,
down with extraordinarily heavy loss- j These dispatches seem to confirm the
es for the enemy. ' 'opinions constantly expressed by the
"Army group of Prince Leopold: The correspondents at the front of the
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
ARIZONA MINERS WANT WEEKLY
PAPER PUBLISHED IN SPANISH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
GREAT FALLS, Mont., July 19.
Following the. suggestion of President
Charles H. Moycr In his annual re
port to the biennial convention of thu
Western Federation of Miners, the
committee of the convention on con
stitutional changes today unanimously
recommended that the name of the
organization he chinged to the In
ternational Union of Mine, Mill ant!
Smelter Workers.
Action en the report was deferred,
pending Investigation of certain legal
phases of the proposed change. It
was said the indications were that
the recommendation will be adopted.
The first open attack on the pres
ent administration of the federation
came today In resolutions presented
by the delegates from Cobalt, Ont.
Criticising President Moyer. th'
resolutions "condemn the action of
the present executive in the last elec
tion in using the official organ of the
Western Federation of Miners for
campaign purposes, believing that
such a system of campaigning is not
conducive to the welfare of the organ
ization." The resolutions were referred to a
committee.
The election referred to Is the refer
endum vote for officers of the federa
tion, the ballots cast in which are now
being canvassed here.
The same delegates presented reso
lutions calling for an investigation as
to why the seceding local unions of
Clifton, Morencl, and Metcalf, Ariz,
are permitted representation in the
Arizona State Federation of Labor,
thereby having affiliation with the
American Federation of Labor. They
presented also a resolution demanding
that the referendum election of officers
be held following the biennial conven
tion of the organization. These resolu
tions went to committees.
The delegaies from Arizona camps
united in the presentation of a resolu
tion asking for '.I.e publication by the
mining department of the American
Federation of Labor of a weekly paper
in Me Spanish language in the inter
est of union mine workers.
The c.iunt of votes foi officers is
proceeding slcv.ly and will not be com
pleted before :ate tomorrow.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 19 An attack
by Senator La Follette on the gen
eral preparedness program as the re
sult of the agitation by moneyed in
terests, aided by the metropolitan
press, prevented a final vote in the
senate today on the naval bill. Tiie
Wisconsin senator had not completed
his speech when the senate adjourned
tonight and did nut indicate how long
he planned to continue. The general
belief however, was that a vote would
be reached tomorrow.
Hint of today was taken up with
an unsuccessful fight by Senators
Oliver and Penrose on the section of
the bill providing for a $11,000,000
government armor plant. By a vote
of 01 to 17 the senate defeated a
motion to strike out the section and
then voted clown, 49 to 16, the Oliver
amendment to refer the armor con
troversy to the federal trade, com
mission for settlement. Senator Ia
Follettee contended vigorously that
neither conditions confronting the na
tion nor the testimony given before
the congressional naval committees
warranted the proposed navy in
creases. "A total of JS44, 000,000 Is the load
that Roes on the londed backs of
th.? American people," he declared.
"Why is this to be done? If it Is
necessary now, why was it not neces
sary four years ago? You knew then
the naval and military strength of
all the foreign countries. But then
the interests had not been aiealed
to. Bethlehem Steel at 40 was not
liethlel em Steel at S40. The Inter
ests behind this preparedness plan do
not fear Germany or England. The
pl:in merely fits into their imperial
istic schemes."
The senator charged that men had
ben forced Into prcpaiedness pa
rades under threats of having their
wages reduced. Workingmen in
Washington, he raid, had told him
they marched in the demonstration
here for that reason. The larger
newspapers of the country, he de
clared, wen? influenced by the agents
of the "interests behind the prepared
ness propaganda to devote most space
to the testimony of witnesses before
the congressional committees who
favored preparedness,
"A cheap skate of a business man
can get a column and a half on the
front p;'ge if he will boost prepared
ness," he shouted, "but General Wea
ver, who speaks against it, cannot
get a line. These newspapers sell
their editorial good will along with
their advertising. It costs something
to say that, but for some years I
have stood ready to pay the price."
Senator I-a Follette quoted volum
inously from reports of the committee
hearings to prove that the navy is
in better shape than preparedness ad
vocates make it eppear. He Insisted
that it is stronger than Germany's
navy and pointed out that Germany
Mr. Poling, a Ilanly supporter. 1 with a navy about half as large as
nominated Mr. Ilinshaw for national I Knglands, has been able to prevent
chairman after a rule providing for an invasion of her territory.
filling the office during the conven-
department i::sued today a series of
reports on the mobilization of the
national guard for border duty, all
designed to i-efnte charges that the
men have been Improperly rationed
and not given the best facilities
available in their trip south. Secre
tary Baker is preparing a report to
congress on the subject, in response
to a resolution adopted a few days
ago.
To show the present conditions in
border camps. Major General Tasker
II. Bliss, assistant chief of staff, now
is inspectirg the entire oorder force.
His first report came by telegraph
today from Mission, Tex., and is as
follows:
"Finished inspection Monday of Il
linois and Wisconsin troops at Fort
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. PAUL, July 19. The nomina
tion of J. Frank Hanly of Indiana as
the presidential candidate of the pro
hibition party was confidently predicted
tonight by friends of Hanley and
leaders of the so-called organization
forces in the prohibition national con
vention, following the unanimous re
election late today of Virgil G. Ilin
shaw, Chicago, to the chairmanship of
the national committee.
Further impetus was said to be
given the Hanly candidacy by the se
lection of Robert H. Patton of Spring
field, III., as permanent chairman.
Howard Kerschner, Topeka, Kas., was
named permanent secretary.
When the convention adjourned to
night a conference of convention of -
icers was held for the purpose of ar
ranging a program to be followed until
inal adjournment.
Hanly followers succeeded at the
afternoon session in obtaining the
adoption of a recommendation of the
rules committee providing for the
nomination of a presidential candidate
tomorrow Instead of Friday.
The tiuestion will come up for de
cision on the floor of the convention
tomorrow.
The Indiana delegation at a closed
session agreed upon a proposal for
Sumner W. Ilaynes to place in nom-
nation the name of Mr. Hanly.
A public mass meeting was held to
night.
With Mr. Patton In the chair, the
Hanly program met few obstacles at
the afternoon session. Some delegates
charged Patton with steam rolling
methods, declaring that he failed to
recognize several delegates who sought
to speak against certain motions. But
he had the great majority of the dele
gates with him and there was no ef
fort to change any of his rulings by
an appeal to the convention.
and Illinois troops at Brownsville
vesterday. Will finish inspection of
New York, Indiana, Minnesota and
Texa" troops between Mission and
San Benito by night of 20th. Will
mail report soon afterward.
"Have found camps . in excellent
sanitrry condition. Men are reason
it bly woll sheltered and well fed.
Have interviewed all regimental and
company commanders and taken
down their statements by the stenog
rapher. Thus far they are unanimous
in expressing satisfaction and con
tentment of officers ,nd enlisted men.
Deficiencies in equipment are being
made up as rapidly as possible. Gen
eral Funston and his staff deserve
great credit for efficient handling of
problem."
VILLA
BANDITS
ATTACK TRAIN
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, July 19 A
band of Viilistas attacked a train on
the Mexico Northwestern railway near
Santa Ysabel, about 50 miles west of
here, yesterday, according to a report
to General Jacinto Trevino today. The
bandits were beaten off and eight of
them, who were captured, were brought
here today for trial by court martial.
The band was said to nuinlur less
than a score.
General Trevino announced that
General Ramos has now pursued the
bandits Into a district in which facili-
DE LA ROERTA
COESFOOMACUA
PRIETATONACO
republican A. P. Leased Wire -
DOUGLAS, July 19. After complet
ing a series of conferences with Gen
eral P. Klias Calles, military com
mander of Sonora, Adolfo de la Huer
ta, governor of the state, left Agua
I'rieta late today by automobile for
Naco. He will proceed from there to
Cananea and after spending a day or
two there, will return to Hermosillo.
Neither Calles nor the governor
would make a statement relative to
the subjects covered in their confer
ence. Consul Ives G. Lelevier said to
day that one of the most important
ties for telegraphic communications are matters was the holding of municipal
few. The exact location of the gov
ernment forces he did not disclose.
Later dispatches from Ojinaga said
that Captain A. V. Anderson, com
manding the American garrison at Pre-
idio, Texas, has assured Colonel Rojas
of the preparedness of his command in
the event of a Villista attack upon the
American border.
General Trevino today ordered that
Santiago Ramirez, formerly Villista
governor of Coahuila, face the firing
squad tomorrow as a result of his re
cent conviction by court martial of
several murders, although numerous
appeals for clemency have been re
ceived, especially from women In Sal-
tillo, a number of whom made per
sonal supplication.
Dispatches were received today from
Carranza authorizing that every guar
antee of protection be given the Alva-
rado Mining and Milling company, an
American concern with properties at
I'arral, that its plant may resume
operations.
Hon had been adopted
Charles II. Hall of California along
with Oliver W. Stewart and other
leaders, seconded the nomination, and
when no other candidates were nom
inated Mr. Ilinshaw was elected by
acclamation. His popularity was at
tested by the demonstration that
greeted him immediately after his
election.
Completion tomorrow of all busi
ness before the national prohibition
convention, Including presidential and
vice-presidential nominations and
adoption of a platform, was planned
by permanent officers of the con
ventlon at a meeting late tonight.
Only delay in the reM rt of the reso
lutions committee will interfere wit):
Senators Oliver and Penrose, speak-
ing against the armor plant proposal,
insisted that it simply would mean
waste of money now that the Beth
lehem Sleel company has offered to
furnish plate at a price to be set by
the tederal trade commission.
"It would be little less than crimi
nal to spend the amount proposed for
plant at this time," Senator Oliver
eclared.
(Continued on Page Three)
United States Attorney
Faces Contempt Charges
Republican A. P. Lensed Wire
NEW YORK, July 19. United
States Attorney If. Snowden Marshall
was technically in the custody of
Robert D. Gordon, sergeant at arms
of the house of representatives to
night, after his writ of habeas cor
pus, preventing his removal to Wash
ington to answer for alleged con
tempt of the house, was dismissed by
Federal Judge Hand. Mr. Gordon is
not In the city, however and Mr.
Marshall is not actually in his cus
tody. After a conference with his attor
ney, former United States Senator
John C. Spooner, the federal attorney
announced that he would at once file
with Judge Hand an application for
a stay of execution which will en
able him to appeal to the supreme
court of the United States. Should
the stay be refused, Mr Marshall will
go to Washington voluntarily.
In his decision. Judge Hand held
that the house of representatives
acted within its rights in voting Mr.
Marshall In contempt on the ground
that his criticism of the house was
made public during an investigation
Into charges against Representative
Frank Buchanan and others because
of his connection with Labor's Na
tlonal Peace Council. This organiza
tion was alleged to have fomented
strikes in plants manufacturing mu
nitions for the entente allies.
Six Soldiers Killed
EL PASO, July 19. Six government
soldiers were killed In the Villista at
tack upon a Carrancista supply train
at Palomas, Chihuahua, on Monday,
according to private dispatches here
today. The dispatches conflicted with
(Continued on Page Three)
elections August 27, the date on which
authorities will be elected in all
municipalities of Mexico. This will
pave the way for the general election
at which a president and members of
the national chamber of deputies will
be chosen.
During the conference a set of in
structions to all garrison commanders
in Sonora was drafted by General
Calles and Governor de la Huerta, the
consul said. The military were told
not to take part in civil affairs but to
lend every assistance to the civil au
thorities.
All civil authorities now in office
were instructed that they could not be
candidates for re-election and that
they must not give aid to any candi
date, but must see that the election is
conducted in a legal manner and that
everyone has a chance to vote.
The authorities in Agua Prieta by
direction of Governor de la Huerta and
General Calles, continued today to
gather evidence in the case of A. Rod
riguez, a Mexican, who was shot Mon
day afternoon by Private Tucker,
Eleventh infantry, while attempting to
cross the international boundary after
being told by Tucker, who was on duty
as a sentry, to halt
Rodriguez, who will probably recov
er, made additional statements In the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 19. Prelimin
ary negotiations between Acting Sec
retary Polk and Eliseo Arredondo,
Mexican Ambassador-designate, for
peaceful settlement of border difficul
ties progressed so -well today that a
formal announcement very soon as
to the course to be followed was offi
cially predicted.
The conferees met twice today. La
ter, Mr. Arredondo telegraphed a re
port to his government and Mr. Polk
prepared a similar report for Secre-
ary Lansing, now on his vacation.
and probably will talk over the situa
tion with President WTilson tomorrow.
Mr. Lansing is being fully advised of
every step in the negotiations.
Henry P. Fletcher, ambassador-
designate to Mexico, was present at
both conferences, interpreting when
ever it was necessary, to insure a clear
understanding. It is understood that
the discussions dealt particularly with
the powers to be conferred upon a
oint commission should that plan of
settlement be followed. So far no def-
nite agreement on the course to be
pursued has been reached; but today's
developments indicated that only final
word from General Carranza and Pres
ident Wilson was lacking. It was
stated officially that the American
commissioners had not been selected.
Officials said also that Mr. Fletcher
would not head the American mem
bership, as had been reported, be
cause it might impair his diplomatic
usefulness.
It is understood Mr. Fletcher will go
to his post in Mexico City soon after
Secretary Lansing returns from his
vacation about August 1, provided the
favorable turn of events beyond the
border continues. At the same time.
Mr. Arredondo will be formally re
ceived by President Wilson as ambas
sador from the republic of Mexico and
formal diplomatic relations be re
stored.
State department officials said to
day they had no information as to
when General Pershing's troops would
be withdrawn from Mexico, indicat
ing that this was a military question
entirely in the hands of the war de
partment.
A dispatch from General Pershing
today saying that General Gonzales
had conferred with him as to reports
of the seizure of the Hearst ranch in
Chihuahua and then had proceeded to
investigate the case, was viewed here
as further evidence of the more con
ciliatory attitude of all Carranza of
ficials. General Pershing had called
attention to this change previously.
saying that the general opinion of
those Mexicans with whom he came
in contact was that a peaceful adjust
ment of all difficulties would be found.
The war department announced to
day a further relaxation of the unoffi
cial embargo imposed at the border
when the Mexican emergency became
acute. Coal, coke and gasoline for in
dividual industrial purposes and
household goods now will be permitted
to pass into Mexico, the announce
ment said, in reasonable quantities.
(Continued on Page Three)
Going to Sea Pershing
EL PASO, July 19. It was learned
here tonight that Robert Bacon, form
er ambassador to France, and Dr. R.
P. Strong of the Harvard Medical
(Continued on Page Three)
Deutschland Ready To Slip
Away On Under-Sea Voyage
Canada Wants to
Know Where Nickel
Supply Came From
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OTTAWA, Ont, July 19. The
question as to who supplied the
nickel which will he such a valuable
part of the submarine Deutschland' :
cargo on her return to Germany be
came of added interest here today
with the annoupcement that an offi
cial statement will he issued within
a few dnys on the whole policy of the
British and Canadian governments in
respect to th sale of the metal.
Officials challenge, the statement of
George P. Graham, former minister
of railways In the Laurier cabinet.
that Canadian nickel sold to Amer
ican firms on condition that it shali
nut reach England's enemies, can bo
obtained without difficulty in the
open market In the United States. H
is claimed that the United States
produces 240,000 tons of nickel an
nually, and that all Canadian nickel
exported to the United States has
been accounted for by ths Interna
tional Nickel company, the purchaser
of virtually all of it. No change of
policy Is foreshadowed. .
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, July 19-At 11
o'clock tonight the two spars of
the German merchant submarine
were taken down and the con
ninq tower closed. Close at hand
lay tiie tug Thomas F. Timmins
with a full head of steam up.
In the vicinity of the subma
rine were numerous launches with
agents of the Eastern Forward
ing company, patrols aboard. At
11:05 o'clock these craft hailed a
newspaper launch and tried to
induce the reporters to leave.
"You're interfering with our
plans," the watchman said.
To all appearance the Deutsch
land was ready to leave at any
time. Her crew and master were
aboard.
Among the late events that
tended to confirm this belief was
the stowing of more than 40 tons
of fuel oil on the submarine late
this afternoon.
The stevedores who have been
working day and night for nearly
a week putting aboard the return
cargo of rubber and nickel were
discharaoci this afternoon, two
hours before the usual time for
the day shift to quit.
All shore leave for the crew of
the Deutschland was stopped to
night. According to stories told
by friends of some of the subma
rine's seamen, the latter have ex
Dressed deepest anxiety over the
possibility of their falling victims
to the allied cruisers reported to
be awaiting the submersible off
the capes not from cannon but
from disabled engines through
being caught in nets which they
believe will be stretched for them.
"Entangled in these, the subma
rine cannot escape," a friend of
the men was quoted as saying
tonight: "Her engines will be
crippled and it will be a slow and
agonizing death to all on board.
When the engines stop, the lights
will go out and the air will stop.
That is what the men fear. They
talk of it continually while with
me at night and they asked ev
eryone to pray for them."
This same man says the
Deutschland's crew expressed
fears that the Bremen might meet
the fate they had pictured as a
possibility to themselves.
Several Commissions Out
For New Brigade Generals
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, July 19. General
Funston was advised today of the
following assignments ' of the newly
commissioned brigade generals:
Charles G. Morton, Seventh brigade
infantiy, headquarters at Douglas,
Arizona.
George A. Dodd, Second cavalry
brigade, with the expeditionary
column in Mexico.
Granger Adams, the Fifth and
"ghth field artillery, headquarters at
El Puso.
E. H Hummer, Fourth brigade in
fantry, to remove to General Funston
for station.
Of the reservists recently called to
the colors, 167 have reported to de
partmental headquarters here. It is
understood that those who have re
ported to other departmental head
quarters will be sent here for incor
poration in the force on the border.
General Funston announced today
the discharge of seventy-five guards
men, released from service under the
ruling permitting the discharge of
those with dependent relatives. The
exact number of those who have ap
plied for discharge was not available,
but it is known that some thousands
have made application.
