I ITTIQNEER COLORATION EDITION sf 1 1
BL ! . - n
! Metal Prices 3TLA ff W'W WX' I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
, New York, July 20. Silver, 62 34c; teL- ' m. WEATHER Utah: Tonight, Friday ill
lead, $6.40; spelter, $9.5010.00; cop- "" and Saturday Fair; Not Much Change , -'H
per, $24.0026.00. - in Temperature. jH
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 1 jH
F,ifty-sixth Year No. 173. Price Five Cents.
OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 20, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah, lH
,& .
BRITISH ID FRENCH GAIN
I GROW IN FIERCE FIGHT
B; ! Five Miles of German First Line Trenches, From Barleux to
B Soyecourt, Fall Into French Hands British Advance in
Kj Delville Wood and Longueval Hard Fighting on
Hy Italian Front Extends to Isonzo Front Rus-
HBl sians Win Victory in Caucasus and Con-
Hjjj tinue Great Battles on Eastern Front,
Rf London, July 20, 3:20 p. m. A wireless dispatch from
mjk. Rome says it is reported from Petrograd that a great battle
mjtk. is developing at Jablonitza, the results of which thus far have j
KjfV been favorable to the Russians. In addition to the heavy fight-1
Kj, ing in the Carpathians, the dispatch adds, the Russian offensive
E has been resumed before Kovel and Vladimir-Volynski and the i
Kj' Riga area . ,
jl Jablonitza is in the Carpathians south of Kolomea, near-
Bh the northern end of one of the mountain passes leading to I
Hj Hungary.
. Petrograd, July 20, via London, 4:20 p. m. Attempts!
Ill i by Teutonic forces to advance against the Russians in the re-,
ml I gon tie rver Stokhod in Volhynia have been repulsed, the
I'll b war ce announced today.
Operations in Galicia are being notably affected by the
fc'f overflow of the river Dneister. . " " " .
W 1 Petrograd, July 20, via London, A : 06 p. m. The war of-
m 1 fice announced today that Kugi, an important point in the
B Caucasus, was occupied by the Russians on Tuesday.
K Kugi is a junction point of high roads in Erzerum district.
II w Tho French have resumed their
Y driving offensive along the Somme in(
Jr'" northern France. According to this
afternoon's Paris hulletin, the Ger-
i man first line trenches from Barleux
to Soyecourt, south of the Somme, a
IT " " distance of five miles, fell into
I French hands.
North of the river the French at-
8 tack pushed east from Hardecourt
a i and carried trenches along the Com-
! bles-Clery railway,
wv The operations here are close to
Itji the right flank of the British advance,
M' Combles being little more than three
I miles southeast of Longueval.
m Hard fighting contnues on the Aus-
ff tro-ltallan front Vienna reports ar-
: tillery engagements at various points,
jk increased activity extending even to
the Isonzo front.
In last night's fighting In the Ver
dun, region Paris reports progress
t! west of the Thiaumont works north
tl of the citadel, and the capture of a
; strongly fortified German post south
i oC Fleury.
I Today's ofTlclal statement from
London shows that the British are
I continuing their attempts to regain
!j the ground lost in the recent strong
German counter-attack in the Somme
J 'eglon. Progress in the Delville and
I in Longueval is reported and the
j British lines also havo been moved
?i forward north of the Longueval-Baz-
!j entin line.
i Unolilclal reports from Petrograd
IL tell o the development of a great
battle in the Carpathians, at Jablon-
fF itza, where the Austrlnns are reslst-
ing the Russian advance into Hun-
Vol i Gary.
HI'
. London, July 20. Heavy fighting
Bil'l continues on the Somme front. The
Bfjf war office announced today that the
Hjlr- British had gained ground in Del-
HflL! vllle wood and Longueval.
North of the Longuovnl-Bazentln
Hfjji position the British pressed forward
Hwf their line. East of the eLeipsic rc
doubt, bombing parties made a sub-
jHr stantlal advance during tho night.
KjMr The statement follows:
Vftf! "At 2:5,0 o'clock in the afternoon In
fljr Delville wood and Longueval we re-1
Hy gained a little more ground. The
Ef struggle in these areas continues.
(HL "North of our Longueval-Bazetln
IKk position we this morning pushed for-
H ward our line, captured some prison-
H- ers and a gun.
H' artillery fire between Barcoula Pass
and the Astlch valley; artillery duels
jH in the Fela and Ralbler sectors and a
Bv nocturnal bombardment of Malborgeth
Hi by Italian artillery which alBO showed
Kc' increased activity on the Isonzo front,
IHt ospecially at tbe Gorlzla bridgehead.
flHKj An attack upon Thurwleserjock was
repulsed, says the statement, which
K also contains the following:
jH 1 ii a trench northwest of Pontebba
jH (Carnic) loud sounds of combat were
A heard. Austro-IIungarlan troops were I
fi Ka' not engaged at the place mentioned."
"East of the Leipaic redoubt we'
made a substantial advance last j
night.
"Elsewhere in the main battle area
there has been only artillery fire
since the last report and an altera
tion in the positions.
"A captured diary belonging to a
German commanding officer shows
that in the fighting from July 1 to
July G, a Bavarian regiment, which
was opposed to us at "Montauban, suf
fered o.OOO casualties out of a total
strength of 3,500 men.
"Another document shows that
one battalion of the 109th regiment
Insf MR rnnn nut of 1.100 whilft fhn
other battalions of that regiment each
lost more than half their effective
strength.
"Yesterday evening, south of Ar
mentleres, we carried out some im
portant raids on a front of two miles,
in which Austrian troops took part.
About 140 German prisoners were
captured."
French Capture Trenches.
Paris, July 20. Noon. French at
tacks In the Somme region were de
livered last night on both sides of the
river. On the north bank trenches in
the Hardecourt sector were taken
while south of the river all the Ger
man front line trenches between Bar
leux and Soyecourt fell Into French
hands.
Announcement of the French suc
cesses is made In this afternoon's war
office bulletin.
The trenches captured on tho north
bank run from Halecourt Mamolon
to the east of Hardecourt along the
railway from Combles to Clery. Four
hundred prisoners were cantured
here.
In the Verdun region there was a
continuous bombardment of the Avo
court and Chattancourt sectors on the
left bank of the Meuse with a gren
ade engagement to the northeast ot
Hill 304.
German Post Captured.
On the east bank of tho Meuse the
French progressed west of the Thiau
mont earthworks while to the south
of Fleury they took a strongly forti
fied German post, together with 150
prisoners.
A German aeroplane was brought
down in the Somme region east of Per
onne. French Make Gains.
The communication follows:
"On both sides of tho Somme our
infnntrj' thus morning attacked Ger
man positions and gained notable ad
vantages, rsorth of tne bomme we
captured enemy trenches from Mame
lon Hardecourt as far as tho river
and carried our line clear to the east
ot Hardecourt along the railroad to
the narrow road which runs from Com
bles to Clery.
"South of the Somme between Bar
leux and Soyecourt all the first line j
enemy trenches fell into our hands.
"In the Champagne we penetrated
a German trench north of Auberlve.
"In tho Argonne .the Germans at
tempted a coup de mnin upon our
small posts In the Bolante salienu
Aftor a lively hand grenade battle
OGDEN SCENE IN PIONEER-DAYS
The Union Pacific terminal station at Ogden in 1 868, near the site of the present union passenger station. One of
the first parties of Mormon emigrants carried by rail across the plains, starting for Salt Lake City by stage-coach. Repro
duced from stereoscope photograph now in possession of Col . C. A. Black, right-of-way agent of the LJnion Pacific.
i
TODAY the Utah pioneers who
endured the hardships of the
plains that they might find a
home in the Salt Lake Valley,
can view with satisfaction the part
they took in the evolution and devel
opment of the great intermountain
country and join in the celebration of
the completion of those events which
so closely connect the history of past
and present in ties that formed the
foundation of a greater nation, Increas
ing the scope of the public domain
and establishing a stronger unity of
thought and purpose among the peo
ple. Greater still than this record of
achievement is the fact the 1916 cele
bration Is significant with the trend
for tho .accomplishment of projects
that will tend to forward tho spirit
of progress, which characterized the
past. Tho people and the Intermoun
tain west today, In their review of
events, as depicted in the great pa
lv nrn reminded of early
the enemy was repulsed.
Meuse Bombardment Continues.
"Upon the left bank of the Meuse
bombardment continues in the regions
of Avocourt and Chattancourt to
gether with hand grenado fighting on
the slopes northeast of Hill 304,
"On the right bank we progressed
west ot Thiaumont works. South of
Fleury a powerfully fortified work
held by the enemy was captured by
our troops who took prisoner several
officers and 150 men.
"In the region of tho Somme a Ger
man aeroplane was brought down yes
terday afternoon. East of Pennine
another enemy machine was brought
down near Gremllly in the Verdun
region."
Tho British admiralty announced
on April 18 that the Eemdijk while on
passage from Baltimore lo'"Kotterdam
with the Dutch colors painted on her
sides, ha,d been torpedoed by "an en
emy submarine."
Zeppelin Raider Wrecked.
London, July 20, 10:20 a, m. The
Zeppelin which recently i-alded Riga,
was hit several times by Russian anti
aircraft guns and wrecked, near Tu
kum, according to a . Central News
j dispatch from The Hague, quoting re
ports received at Cologne The ma
1 jorlty of tho crow was saved and Ger-
history, and the readjustments they
were compelled to make to meet con
stantly changing conditions but they
look into the future as far as 1919,
when they will witness the com
pletion ot a project of inestimable
commercial value, of far greater his
torical importance than the present
celebration.
Because It will represent a crystal
lization of sentiment for the accom
plishment of greater things, the inter
national exposition suggested by B. L.
Winchell, director of traffic of the
"Union Pacific system, as a fitting
tribute to pioneer railroad builders,
and commemorating the fiftieth anni
versary of the completion of the first
transcontinental railroad, Is looked
forward to as being the greatest prac
tical demonstration of industrial pro
gress ever attempted by the American
people.
Comparisons, using facts presented
as the basis, show that such an ex
position for Ogden to be of greater
importance, historically, than either
man engineers rescued the engine and
other parts of the machinery.
Greeks Cross Bulgaria.
Berlin, July 20. By wireless to Say
vllle. The Vosslsche Zeltung says
that after the demobilization of the
Greek army the Bulgarian government
permitted 1,000 Greek reservists to
cross Bulgarian territory for the pur
pose of returning to Rumania.
Turks Announce Victories.
Constantinople, July 20. Via Lon
don, 1:34 p. ra. Turkish victories in
Persia and the Caucasus were an
nounced today -by the war office. Tho
statement follows:
"East of Slneh, Persia, Russians
forces which attached our detachments
were driven off. They left behind
great numbers of dead.
"In the Caucasus on our right wing
our advanced posts made successful
surprise attacks."
Intense Fighting Reported.
Berlin, July 20. Via London, 6:40
p. m. Repeated French attacks south
of the Somme were repulsed by ho
Germans, the war office announced to
day. The French and British artillerv
fire developed to a pitch of greatest
intensity on both sides of the Somme.
The announcement also says that a
strong British attaok north and west
of the two California expositions,
which have lured-peoplo from all over
the world to the Pacific coast within
the past two years. Although now
assuming the character of an interna
tlonal exposition, the original Panama
California exposition at San Diego,
typified the life and history of South
ern California, while the Panama
Pacific exposition at San Francisco !
was in commemoration of the comple-,
lion of the Panama-Canal. While the
completion of the canal was a record
of achievement of world-wide impor
tance, establishing a connecting -waterway
between two oceans and there
by opening a new trade avenue, the
canal itself can not be referred to
in the same category with the rail
roads as being factors in the develop
ment of tho greatest nation on the
globe.
Designed to be of future commercial
value and also marking a new epoch
in the history of water transportation
facilities, the canal is viewed more
in the light that it represents the
of Fromelles was defeated, the British
being eected by counter assaults
wherever they succeeded in entering
the German trenches.
Heat Hinders War Movements.
London, July 20, 1:50 p. m. The
following official report from " the
British expeditionary forces in Meso
potamia was given out today:
"Since the last communique of the
13th, nothing interesting has been re
ported. The heat has been excessive
For some days the temperature in the
shade has been over 120 degrees."
British Capture Submarine.
Loudon, uly 20, 4:05 p. m. Tho
firet official announcement that
Great Britain had captured a German
submarine of the U-35 class was made
in the house of commons today by
Thomas McNaraara, financial secre
tary of tho admiralty who said that
one of these vessels would be brought
to London to bo viewed by the pub
lic. Stones Hurled on Italian.
Berlin, July 20, by Wireless to Say
vllle. Hurling stones down the moun
tain sides, the Austrlans repulsed
throe strong Italian attacks near Bar
coula pass, the official statement is
sued yesterday at Vienna reports.
product of master engineering brains
and being still in the experimental
stage, comparatively no weight is at
tached to the inference that it will
surpass the railroads in aiding future
development.
The. nation owes Its - life to the
railroads. They have been the great
est factors in development. Tho
transcontinental lines linked Uie east
with the west and thereby made pos
sible one country, one flag. The pio
neers who braved the wild life of the
plains, seeking homes In the far west,
laid the stepping stones for the build
ing of the transcontinental lines. The
completion of the first transcontinetal
line was was a realization of dreamers'
dreams that had their inception be
fore the first emigration to the west.
The proposed exposition will be a
tribute to those dreamers and to
other pioneer citizens and railroad
'builders, who made the railroads and
united nation a reality.
The announcement follows:
"After heavy artillery preparation
"strong Italian forces attacked three
timos our positions south and east of
Barcoula pas. They wero repulsed
with hand grenades, machine guns and
avalanches of stones.
"Thero was heavy artillery fighting.
At Fela Raibler we captured a ma
chine gun. Tarvis was shelled by the
enemy."
AMERICAN VESSELS
CARRY BIG CARGOES
Washington, July 20. -Marked in
crease of overseas shipping in Ameri
can vessels was reported today by
the department of commerce. Be
tween January and June 91 vessels
with a tonnage of 27S.00O mado trips
to South Ameriran countries, 81 with
tonnage of 257,000 to Europe, 11 to
'Asia and 7 to Africa.
oo
. The California Trade Union Liberty
League, an anti-prohlbltlon organiza
tion composed of organized wage
earners, has Issued a call for'astato
convention, to be held in Eureka on
Sunday, October 1.
SCREEN OF TUGS I
Submarine Merchantman Put
ting Final Touches on Ma
chinery Before Starting H
on Return Voyage.
Baltimore? Md., July 20. At dawn IH
today a screen of tugs and barges
was drawn about the submarine mer- ;H
ohantman Deutschlandindicating that
she would not leave here for several
hours at least. To appearances she
was ready to start on her return voy .H
age to Germany last night This
morning, just before she was hidden
from view, it was observed that she.
was submerged to abont the same
depth as when she came into this
port, with a full cargo.
Yesterday a force of mechanics was
sent aboard the submarine to help
the crew's mechanics to overhaul the
machinery, one of the engines was
later dismounted and hurried in an
automobile to a local shop fer re-fin-ishing.
It is thought probable that
further testing of the machinery may
he necessary before the vessel takes
her denarture. All thrmih the nlcht
tho tug Timmins . played its ' search
light .ceaselessly over' the land and
"wUter,mictjcally coveringialIap
pro aches to the pier where the
Deutschland Is berthed,
Toward midnight the vigilance of
the German guards about the pier
tightened. Several launches were
found hovering about the waters near
the submarine and while the Tim
mins threw its searchlight beams up
on the strange craft the night super
Intendent of the Eastern Forward- 'H
ing company, local agents for the
submarine's , owners, jumped Into a
motor boat and made a long tour of
the waters about the pier to inspect
the mysterious visitors.
Captain Dons Uniform. IH
Baltimore, Md., July 20. Prepared IH
to leave port at any moment, Captain
Paul Koenig, ommander of the
German merchant submarine Deutsch
land, put on his uniform today for the
first lime since he lauded here eleven
days ago, and for several hours this
orning studied the charts of the Pata- jH
psco river and Chesapeake bay with
Captain Frederick Hansch, command
or ot the North German Lloyd liner
Neckar. When Captain Koenig went
hnrl.- nlinnrd tho itiifl priori llnor hn IH
took with him a duplicate manifest of
the ship's cargoe. Another copy was
ready to be taken to the customs'
house.
Captain Koenig said he would not
leave his ship again and indicated an
early departure, but said nothing
that would give an idea just when
the submarine would leave.
It was .understood the Deutsch- IJ
land's engines and submerging ma- IH
chinery had been given a final test jH
and were found to be in perfect corp
oo mM
General Bliss Reports Condi
tion of Men Excellent Va
riety of Food Being
Supplied.
BORDER GUARDS
Washington, July 20. Major-Gener- jH
al Bliss has reported to the war le
partment that his inspection of the 'H
Now York National Guard division on
the border found It comfortably shell
ered, In excellent health and with a IH
sick report that practically was ncgli
gible. Regarding the food -supply, the gen- JM
eral said the unanimous opinions of all
commanding officers was that rations IH
were excellent in quality, the only
criticism of the men being due to a
monotony resulting from deficiency of
certain components intended to give 'H
an agreeable variety.
Necessities for a proper variety or jH
food for the border climate are being
supplied as rapidly as possible.
Dutch Ship Torpedoed.
Berlin, July 20. via Wireless to Say
ville. The Dutch shipping council
has completed Its investigation of tne -explosion
which damaged the Hoi-land-America
freighter Eemdijk last
April It has decided, the Overseas
News Agency says, that the explo
sion was caused by a torpedo of un
known origin. H
