Oregon Historical Society
""'"n 2U7 Second St
ASHLAR
'Ashland Grows While Llthia flows'!
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithia Springs
."Oregon's Famous Spa"
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1916
NUMBER 17
D
C.W.Root Is Chautauqua President
G. F. Billings Is
The twenty-fourth annual assem
; hly of the Southern Oregon Chautau
: qua was brought to a close Tuesday
night after twelve days of attractions
and attendance which has never been
i exceeded at any assembly. More
campers were located In Chautauqua
'! grove and more season tickets were
f sold than ever before. Every one of
the afternoon and evening programs
was good, the music especially being
fine throughout. The biggest crowd
of the assembly came on the night of
the New York Marine Band concert,
when hundreds were unable to gain
admission to the building.
Hoot Is President.
C. W. Hoot was elected president
of the association at the business
meeting held Tuesday afternoon. G.
F. Billings, the retiring president,
has for twenty-two years been presi
dent of the association. He has been
indefatigable In his efforts towards
the betterment of the assembly, hav
ing as his motto for years, "Better
than ever," and living up to the
motto. He has given unstintingly of
his time and strength, and has been
the biggest factor In making the
Southern Oregon Chautauqua one of
the two biggest and best in the west
and "one of the six real Chautauquas
In the United States," to quote Col.
Bain.
In recognition of his long and
faithful directorship of the destinies
of the Chautauqua, Mr. Billings was
elected president emeritus.
Other Officers.
' J. S. Smith, for years one of the
hardest workers for a better Chau
tauqua and one of the pioneers of the
movement in southern Oregon, was
elected vice-president. G. G. Eu
bankg was elected treasurer, and the
following were elected directors: E.
D. Briggs, H. L. Whlted, G. W. Tref
ren, E. E. Bagley and W. A. Patrick.
I'nder these men the affairs of the
association should go forward. -i
Financial Report. ,
The financial report showed a to
tal of $2,571.60 revenue up to Tues
day afternoon (the Tuesday night
admissions bringing this up by $150
at least), and total expenses for the
session of $2,869.15, thus leaving a
deficit of about $200.
The ladles' season tickets sold
brought In $1,095.90, the men's
$363.65 and the children's $187.50,
or a total of $1,646.65 for season
tickets, which is $200 better than
last year. The gate receipts exclu
sive of Tuesday night ware $S63.7,
which is $100 better than last year.
Tents in the park brought in $71.
Coming immediately after the big
celebration and considering the fact
that the condition of the building and
the knowledge that all could not get
in on the big nights, the attendance
was excellent. Several hundred dol
lars were lost through lack of room
In, the building.
New Building Movement.
A meeting wtih about fifty pres
ent was held Tuesday morning and
ways and means for securing a new
building were discussed at some
length, but no definite plan arrived
at. General discussion was indulges
in by a number of speakers and sev
eral plans were offered, but no action
of any kind taken. Mr. Billings stat
ed that the building which is contem
plated will cost in the neighborhood
of $15,000 and will seat 2,500 with
out the galleries, which can be added
later if needed. The stage will seat
250 and be large enough to stage pa
geants and big road shows which can
not be put on elsewhere in the valley.
The big auditorium should pay for
itself in the first few years. Ashland
is ideally situated and has the attrac
tions which should make It the "con
vention city" for the Pacific coast,
Midway between the California cities
and Portland and the Puget Sound
cities, Ashland should entertain doz
ens of big coast conventions yearly,
and a big auditorium Is a necessity.
Then, again, pageants on a valley
wide scale could be put on which
should bring hundreds of dollars to
the association. The new Shautau
qua is the next thing Ashland should
go after.
The present building not only Is
insufficient in size, as was amply
demonstrated the evening of the Ma
rine band concert, when perhaps fif
teen hundred people failed to gain
admission, causing a loss of several
hundred dollars, but is so .shaky
looking that many people will not
risk entering it. As one former Port
land man put it, "If the Portland
fire commissioner should see this
President Emeritus
building with the aisles blocked and
Jammed to the doors, he would have
the whole association pinched."
The business meeting of the asso
ciation was adjourned until the first
Wednesday in September because of
inability to get through with the as
sociation's business. At that time
the new president will be here, and It
is to be hoped that a definite plan
for securing the new building before
next summer may be formulated and
work started toward the consumma
tion of this aim.
Tuesday Xiht.
Before the Tuesday night circus,
Mr. Billings told how through the
efforts of J. S. Smith, with the per
suasion of Df. Stratton of Portland,
the Chautauqua, which was originally
located at Central Point twenty-three
years ago, was moved to Ashland and
permanently located here. Dr. Strat
ton picked out the grounds and
helped outline the park development,
(Continued on Page Four.)
Brilliant Sign
On Hotel Austin
The big thirty-five-foot electric
sign on the roof of the Hotel Austin
blazed forth In its incandescent bril -
llancy Wednesday night, adding
greatly to the "alive" appearance
which the hotel is assuming inside
and outside since Mr. Chlsholm has
taken the management. The sign
livens up the whole city as a big eleo-
Jrfc sign always does.
Mr. Chlsholm is, to use his own
words, "up to his neck in busid?5s,"
attending to the thousand and one
things which are necessary before
the hotel will suit him. However,
he does not let his dining room serv
ice or the quality of his meals de
teriorate, as those who have had the
pleasure of dining at the Oregon will
testify. On next Sunday evening he
will serve another of the 75-cent din
ners which created such a sensation
last Sunday evening. Everyone who
enjoyed that dinner is talking about
It yet, and many have reserved their
tables in anticipation of a "full
house" next Sunday. The menu for
Sunday's dinner appears elsewhere in
this Issue.
Mr. Chlsholm sent a truck load of
Immense signs this morning to put
up along the highway south of Ash-
land.
R. T. Collins, who has had charge
of the Nurml Baking Company's dis
tribution system, has accepted a po
sition as clerk. Dan Conner remains
on the job as day clerk.
Ib a week or two the Austin will
have a ten-passenger auto bus of the
latest make. Mr. Chisholm threatens
to put the old "stage coach" up on
the roof as a kind of curiosity.
For the last three nights every
room with a bath In the hotel has
been full and business Is excellent,
according to the new manager. In
all probability the seventeen spacious
rooms in the annex will be finished
up and furnished within the near
future.
Ashland is Indeed fortunate in hav
ing a hotel man of Mr. Chlaholm's
ability take charge of the city's best
hotel.
Klamath Falls To
Have Two Trains
A new schedule just Issued by the
Southern Pacific company announces
that two passenger trains will be run
between Klamath Falls and Weed
daily, beginning July 18. Train No.
39 will leave Klamath Falls each
morning at 8, instead of 8:20, as" it
does now, and will arrive at Weed at
11:25.
The new train will leave Klamath
Falls dally at 12 noon, and will ar
rive in Weed at 3:13 in the after
noon.
The first train out of Weed for
Klamath Falls will leave Weed at
12:50 In the afternoon and arrive
here at 3:33. The other train, No.
40, will leave Weed at 4:15, and
will arrive in Klamath Falls at 7:45
in the evening.
The new train is being put on be
cause of the expected increased travel
during the summer months.
Mrs. T. B. Kinsman has moved up
from Medford and has taken the
Casey residence on Pioneer avenue.
Sixty Tickets for !
Banquet Are Sold
C. B. I.amkin, E. V. Carter, O. T.
Bergner, V. O. N. Smith, P. J. Sliinn,
Amos Mninger, Win Crowson, M. C.
Reed, C. B. Wolf, Frank Jordan, E.
D. Briggs, George Owen, F. II. Mann,
W, D. Hodgson and Louis Dodge are
a committee in charge of a banquet
which will be given at the Austin at
7 o'clock next Tuesday, after which
ageneral discusion of what Ashland
is going to do in regard to having
more celebrations like the one just
past, and also to consider the idea
of letting conventions to meet here.
. The banquet will be for men only,
and it Is expected that there will be
a capacity house. Mr. Chlsholm has
made a very reasonable rate of 50
cents per plate, and tickets will not
be sold after .Monday, as it Is un
reasonable to expect to feed a lot of
late comers, therefore this ruling
will be strictly adhered to. Tickets
are on sale at the Austin, E. N. But
ler's, Win Crowson's or may be ob-
, talned from the members of the com
mittee. Sixty tickets have already
been sold and it bids well to believe
that the dining room of the hotel will
be taxed to capacity. It Is regretted
that the banquet will not include the
ladies, but as the accommodations are
limited, it is impossible to include
them at this time.
It is hoped that the newer resi
dents of Ashland will avail them-
! selves of the opportunity to attend
this banquet, and they should not
wait for someone to extend them an
invitation, but simply purchase a
ticket and be on hand at the banquet
time. All who Intend to be on hand
should purchase their tickets early
in order to give Mr. Chlsholm an
opportunity to know how many to
provide for.
Supt. Graves May
Stay As Park Head
At present the park has no super
intendent. P. H. Graves resigned
last Saturday. A great number of
business men have made a personal
appeal to Mr. Graves, who is recog
nized a very valuable man, to recon
sider, and "Mr. Graves has done so.
The park board Is meeting this after
noon and some decisive action is ex
pected. An informal meeting was held by
the park board and council Monday
j and the matter discussed. The coun-
ell took no formal action; In fact, the
board members held it was without
the council's power to do so. A more
thorough understanding of the mat
ter was arrived at, however.
It seems that Mr. Graves was pay
ing one man under his employ $2.60
and the rest $2. The $2.50 man Mr.
Graves claims to be worth the amount
and even more. Chairman Tavener
of the board told Graves to fire the
man and hire a $2 man. Mr. Graves
refused to do bo. At the hearing it
came out that the park board, or
rather a majority of the board, had
given Mr. Tavener the power to hire
and fire and set the wages of all the
men in the park over the head of the
park superintendent, a proceeding
unprecedented in city affairs. . Mr.
Ashcraft stated that in the water de
partment some of the men were paid
$2.40 and $2.50, while others got
$2.25, and the street department the
same. Also that the council left the
hiring and firing entirely to the su
perintendents.
Mrs. Vaupel outlined a plan for
park care which seemed very feasible
and Included the making out of a
budget and then placing the super
vision and direction of the park work
in the hands of the superintendent,
requiring that he keep within the
budget. The park board Is naturally
short of funds, and the consensus of
opinion was that although by care
the park could be cared for through
the remainder of this year, additional
funds would be needed next year to
those usually raised for park care.
Mr. Graves was prevailed upon to
reconsider his resignation, and states
that he will remain at the head of
the park work on two conditions:
First, that he be given complete
charge of hiring and firing his men,
and second that he should be re
quired to obey orders from the board
only and not from individual mem
bers. Later. Supt. Graves was rein
stated by the park board at 3 o'clock
this afternoon.
Phone news Items tt ne Tidings
Watches Speed Up
Council Meeting
The first fourteen minutes of the
Tuesday council meet were taken up
with the reading of the minutes.
Five minutes were spent in arguing
the question of "who put the mo
tion" at a recent meeting. The
council not having succeeded In get
ting under way until after 8 o'clock,
it was 8:334 when the regular
monthly reports of the various de
partments were disposed of. The
extra pcilcemen who did duty dur
ing the celebration were alowed their
time checks, this operation consum
ing two minutes and forty-five sec
onds. ' Granting leave of absence to
O. E. Dlebert took three minutes, and
discussion of putting a fire plug on
C street took until twenty minutes of
nine.
The passage of a resolution which
outlined the city's fire protection pol
icy and secured lower insurance rates
for part of the city was consummated
at exactly ten minutes to nine.
In three minutes' time arrange
ments were made for Installing a
four-Inch fiain from the Main street
main to argadine street to supply
to fire plugs, one at the corner of
Pioneer avenue and one at the First
street corrter.
An ordinance making a change in
the cost dielectric current for ranges
and air heaters was passed, this op
eration occupying five and a half
minutes.
The matter of the old engineer
notes, elsewhere discussed, was dis
posed of and at five minutes after
nine the meeting adjourned.
The experiment of putting through
a council meeting in a businesslike
manner, sans arguments, worked out
nobly.
The council will meet again next
Tuesday evening. '!
Happiness Wins
Out at the Last
Thursday night will bring to the
Vlnlng TLeatre "The Habit of Hap
piness," a Triangle feature film
which ranks as a super-comedy
drama; Douglas Fairbanks, athletic
young American actor, plays the
lead in the feature. The feature is
full of action and will drive away the
gloom without resorting to the slap
stick stuff so often called comedy, or
rather miscalled comedy. The play
is a practical lesson in the beauty of
the smiling habit.
"Sunny Wiggins," the grownup
son of the Wiggins family, which has
just risen high enough in society to
be snubbed by the best people, is
amused at the set which his sister
cultivates as friends and plays some
pranks which are great laugh pro
ducers. Sunny's father tries to put
him to work and gets the reply that
he should like to work at giving away
his father's money to help the
"bums" of the city. The father tells
Sunny to go live among the bums
and learn that they are not worth
helping, Sunny taking up the propo
sition, and In his experience thinks
he has learned the reason people do
not succeed to be that they do not
laugh. He is finally hired to make
an old millionaire laugh, meets the
girl he loves, is caught with her in
his arms by the millionaire, locks up
the millionaire and finally wins a
partnership and bis girl in a terrific
battle with a gang of thugs.
Vill Throw Hundred
Packages from Roof
There will be something doing
down around the Plaza about 9
o'clock Friday morning. Beebe &
Kinney, who are closing out their
stock in an immense and amazing
sale, are going to throw 100 packages
of valuable merchandise off the root
of their building Into the Plaza be
low.
In addition, the first 200 buyers
on Friday morning will receive a
present of a valuable package of mer
chandise. Everybody likes a mys
tery, and nearly everybody remem
bers the thrill back in the days of
childhood when you opened the grab
bag package which you paid a ntckle
for at the church fair. This thrill
will be multiplied on Friday, for the
packages which Beebe & Kinney will
distribute contain things which any
one would value.
An all white tennis shoe for $1 In
sizes from 5 to 10 at Mitchell & Whit
tle '.s. It
Letter Writing Campaign Now Open
May Secure Millions For This state
The Portland Chamber of Com-. from the eastern and southern states
merce Is asking the people of Oregon I cast their votes on the Chamberlaln
to unite in one gigantic campaign to ' Ferris bill without giving the state of
secure to Oregon her Just share of ! Oregon that consideration which is
the money derived from the sale of rightfully to be expected from legis
the Oregon-California land grant. j hitors of the United States.
Congressman N. J. Sinnott has In-1 The Charaberlaln-Ferrls bill pro
troduced a bill which provides that vldes the means for the disposal of
the 40 per cent of the revenue as-j the Oregon-California railroad grant
signed to the Reclamation Service lands and the division of the funds
shall be expended by this service for j to be secured therefrom. No objec
the reclamation of Oregon lands. Hon is made to the manner of ap
This is known as H. R. No. 16597. pralsal and settlement of the lands,
Monday, July 31, has been fixed as and we are accepting the division of
the day for mailing letters. The let- the money as provided in the bill
ters should be directed to any mem- which was 25 per cent to the schooi
ber of congress with whom any Ore-! fund of Oregon, 25 per cent to coun
gonlan is acquainted. If Oregonians j ties In which the lands are situated,
do not know congressmen, It is prob-1 40 per cent to the general reclama
able that the residents of this state
can reach members of the senate and
house through getting In communica
tion with Influential people in the
states where they originally resided.
To all Oregonians who have given
the matter any thought, it is appar
ent that the members of congress
Grand Circus
Completes Session
Tho Chautauqua session came to
a climax Tuesday night in the cir
cus the part of the Chautauqua pro
gram for which the "kids" look for
ward to all through the year. The
program, always good, was better
than ever this year. There is always
something new. This year It was a
minstrel show. The whole stage was
full of brightly clad girls and boys.
The show began as all good shows
should with an opening overture.
With such a grand beginning no show
could fall down, much less one that
was good all the way through. The
orchestra consisted of Misses Edna
Dougherty, piano, and Corrlne Lari
moro, violin. There were about sev
enty voices on the stage. After the
.overture, Miss May Skeene sang
"Don't Bite the Hand That's Feeding
You." Miss Skeene is not very big,
but her rendition of the song made
a hit with the whole audience, which,
by the way, was one of the best to
be had during the entire session.
The next number was "When the
Twilight Comes to Kiss the Rose
Good Night," sung by Misses Corrine
and Blanche Larimore, the two
healthy looking assistants of Prof.
Larimore. The song was very well
rendered. They seem to be living
examples that one can be talented
and still not an invalid. "Mem
ories," sung by Miss Murree Holmes,
came next. She sang it very well
and, when in the chorus Misses Mar
garet Hodgson, Blanche Larimore
and Alene Bomar came out and with
her formed a quartet, the effect was
very effective. Miss Corrlne Lari
more now played "O Sole Mlo" as a
violin solo. The piece is a beautiful
Spanish selection and she played It
In a dainty manner that pleased the
whole house. . Miss Margaret Hodg
son now sang "Clrlblrlbln," another
Spanish song, to the accompaniment
of tambourines, and, with Misses
Querita Brown, Blanche Larimore,
Alene Bomar, Manora Cornelius and
Murree Holmes, did a very pretty
Spanish dance at the end of the song.
Little Miss Margaret Dougherty sang
(Continued on Page Four.)
Lyric Benefit
For Boys' Band
A big benefit performance for the
purpose of raising money to buy caps
for the Ashland Boys' Band will be
held nt the Lyric Theatre Tuesday
night of next week. The movies tak
en In Ashland park the day the Duns
mulr band was here will be shown.
Five reels of drama and comedy will
also be shown, Carl Loveland will
sing and play his 'cello, the Vlnlng
Theatre orchestra will play and the
boys' band will play. All for 10 and
15 cents.
Starting last January with only
two or three boys who had ever
blown a horn, the boys' band has de
veloped into an organization which
gave a very creditable performance
on the 6th of July and who, if a way
of keeping the leader through the
winter Is found, will by next summer
rival any of the older bands of the
valley.
Cllf Tayne makes mission tables.
tion fund and 10 per cent to the fed
eral treasury. A general objection
does come, however, from all sections
of the state as to the plan allowing
I the reclamation bureau to expend tho
muiieys represented by the 40 per
cent division wherever Its officers
may decide.
The contention Is made that the
40 per cent referred to, whatever the
general sura may he, should be spent
for tho reclamation of Oregon desert
lands which can never be brought
under settlement until Irrigation
plants are constructed and water car
ried to them. Oregon lands are just
as deserving of attention from the
Reclamation Service as are lands In
Wyoming, Montana, Colorado, New
Mexico or Arizona, and the fund be
ing taken from the resources of Ore
gon, it would appear that Oregon des
ert lands should In ail fairness be
given the preference In the construc
tion of reclamation works.
In support of the Sinnott bill, the
Portland Chamber of Commerce has
sent copies thereof with explanatory
letters to all of the state societies
represented In Portland, to all the
commercial clubs and chambers of
commerce of the state, and to every
newspaper. ' Each is asked to make
an urgent request of every resident
of Oregon whom It can reach to be
gin writing a series of letters 'to
members of congress with whom they
may be acquainted, particularly
those from the enstern and southern:
states, and to persons with whom
they have an acquaintance residing;
In such Btates, In these letters the
request will be made that they ask
thejr representatives and senators to
do Justice to Oregon In this matter
and support the Sinnott bill.
For the benefit of those writing
letters, the following Information has
been tabulated and it is considered
advisable to quote:
The taxed lands of all kinds in the
stnte of Oregon amount to 25,931,
276 acres.
The non-taxed lands in the state of
Oregon amount to 35,257,204 acres.
These Include Indian reservations,
national parks and monuments, na
tional forests, military reserves, pow
er sites, reservoir sites, coal reserves,
unappropriated government lands,
lands filed on but not patented, state
school lands, and the Oregon-California
land grant.
There are in the state, largely in
the southern, central and eastern
tiers of counties, 32 projects for
reclamation of desert lands. These
cover 1,108,599 acres and the total
amount of money which will be need
ed to complete them Is $34,644,000.
It Is not expected that such a sum of
money can be realized through the
40 per cent of the sale price of the
grant lands which will be devoted to
the reclamation work, but whatever
the sum may be, It will serve a valu
able purpose In preparing these lands
for the occupation of settlers. If air
of the lands could be reclaimed they
would furnish homes for over 15,000
families and add materially to tho
tax valuation of the state. It is prob
able that over 2,060,000 acres of
such desert lands can be ultimately
reclaimed and turned Into prosperous!
farms In this state.
Oregon has already contributed
$10,717,000 to the reclamation funds
of the United States, most of the
money being used in the construction
of projects In other states. Only $3,-
761,000 have been expended by the
reclamation service within the state
of Oregon.
"From the foregoing figures It in
apparent that Oregon has the best
claim on all (he revenue to be de
rived from the grant lands which lie
within this state, and we earnestly
urgo every citizen of the state to be
gin an aggressive campaign for wrlt-
(Contiuucd on rage Six.)
