4
'I,.',?
This Issne
20 Pages
M'COY LEASES
ANDERSON BLOCK
New Furniture Store Will Occupy the
Entire Main Floor and Basement
of Five Story Building.
Paul V. McCoy, president of the
McCoy Furniture Co., the new $50,000
corporation which will soon be in
readiness for business, has just closed
a lease for the main floor and base­
ment of Frank Anderson's block, now
under construction, just opposite the
Federal building. The furniture store
will occupy the entire main floor of
the building, which is 60 feet wide
running back the entire length of the
lot. The building is now up to the
second story and will be rushed to
completion.
Mr. McCoy left Saturday for Chi­
cago to join the manager of the store,
I. C. Cooksey, with whom he will
spend several days buying the com­
plete new stock of f..rniture and fur­
nishings for the store. They intend
to visit Grand Rapids, Mich.
The store Mill be opened on or be­
fore Sept. 1.
WAR IS MURDER
New York Sun: To Professor Lyon
PJielps of Yale university belongs the
honor of giving the doctrine of peace
at any price its best because briefest
est expression. The professor com­
pressed mountains of pacifist oratory
into this tabloid form of courage and
wisdom in equal parts:
"World peace is to be obtained only
through the ignominy, for its sake, of
a martyred nation. I hope our nation
will be that one. Patriotism Is an il­
lusion. To spill blood on the flag de­
grades it more than to spit on it. War
is murder if we take up arms we
should give up religion. War will go
the way of duelling, not because it is
brutal, but because it is silly. It is an
anchronism, a reversion to barbarism.
Whatever the pacifists are, they are
not cowards."
GEORGE S. LOFTUS
EQUITY LEADER
DIES AT ST. PAUL
Passed Away Sunday Night at home
of Sister in St. Paul After Year's
Illness from Cancer of Bowels
George S. Loftus, sales manager of
the Equity Co-operative Exchange,
died Sunday night at 8:50 o'clock at
the home of his sister in St. Paul, aft­
er an illness of almost a year.
The death of Mr. Loftus, while not
unexpected, comes as a great shock to
a large number of people over th?
state of North Dakota, especially so
to the members of the Equity, whose
battles Mr. Loftus had been fighting
since he became connected with' the
organization.
A telegram received at Equity head­
quarters stated that Mr. Loftus suf­
fered terribly toward the last, his ail­
ment being one that caused great suf­
fering all during his illness. His death
was due to cancer of the bowels.
Mr. Loftus was 43 or 44 years of
ae-e. He leaves a wife, three daugh­
ters and one son, in the immediate
family, all of whom were with him at
the time of his death. The deceased
was born in Wisconsin. For a number
of years he was connected with one of
the leading western railroads and was
considered one of the greatest rate
experts „f the northwest. After leav­
ing the railroad business Mr. Loftus
entered the commission business, be­
ing an active member of the firm of
Loftus-Hubbard Co. In July, 1912, he
became sales manager of the Equity,
and after his connection with that,or­
ganization traveled considerably thru
out the state of North Dakota, where
he became known to practically every
farmer of the commonwealth.
Mr. Loftus was taken ill at Minot
Aug. 5, 1915. He had spoken at a big
Equity meeting at New Rockford the
day before and had just arrived in
Minot when he became quite ill. He
was eating lunch with the writer when
he complained of feeling very ill and
left to consult a physician. He went
to Florida for his health, spending all
of last winter there. There were times
during his illness when he was not ex­
pected to recover, but his remarkable
constitution pulled him through each
occasion. Of late, he has been receiv­
ing treatment from a specialist
New York city.
The funeral was held Wednesday
afternoon at 2 o'clock, a large number
of friends from over the northwest at­
tending the sad rites.
Mr. Loftus was born in De Soto,
"Wis., Aug. 26,1873, and came with his
parents to Minneapolis in 1882. Dur­
ing his first year in Minneapolis he
worked as a newsboy, but at 10 years
of age he got a place as messenger
the freight department of the Minne­
apolis & St. Louis. He was chief clerk
in the department at 20. Later he went
to the St. Paul and Duluth as assist
ant general freight agent. When that
road was absorbed into the Northern
Pacific system Mr. Loftus was 27
years old. He decided to^ go into busi­
ness, and became associated with
Vol. 15: No. 14. Minot, Ward County, North Dakota*
F. Hubbard, former governor of Min­
nesota, in the Loftus-Hubbard com­
pany, dealing in grain and hay. The
company first operated in St. Paul, but
later moved its offices to Minneapolis.
Mr. Loftus soon came in conflict
with the railroad companies on rate
matters. He first attacked some of
the roads for rebating practices, se­
curing the conviction of three roads
for violating the federal law. He took
up the question of "reciprocal demur­
rage" and got laws enacted by Minne­
sota and several other states, requir­
ing railroad companies to pay shippers
for delays in furnishing cars but these
laws were declared invalid by the
courts.
Fights Sleeping Car Rates
Better success attended Mr. Loftus'
tilt with the sleeping car companies.
He filed a complaint with the inter­
state commerce commission attacking
the prevailing rates for berths as ex­
cessive. This finally resulted in an or­
der applying the country over, mak­
ing upper berths 20 per cent cheaper
than "lowers." Mr. Loftus was active
in the campaign for lower freight and
passenger rates in Minnesota, which
resulted in the rate laws of 1907, later
upheld by the supreme court of the
United States.
He became interested in politics and
came into contact with R. M. LaFol
lette, then governor and now senator
from Wisconsin. They became warm
personal friends, and in the campaigns
of 1908 and 1912 Mr. Loftus worked
hard for LaFollette's nomination as
president He served for years as
president of the Progressive republi­
can league of Minnesota. Mr. Loftus
backed Senator B. E. Sundberg of Ken­
nedy, Minn., in his famous complaint
against excessive express rates, which
resulted in sweeping rate reductions
some time before the parcel post leg­
islation was enacted.
Opposes Chamber of Commerce
The latter years of Mr. Loftus' ac­
tive work were devoted to work as
manager for the Equity Co-operative
exchange.
The funeral was held from the Geth
semane Episcopal church in Minneap­
olis, and interment took place at Lake
wood cemetery in Minneapolis.
Pall-bearers were J. C. Leum of
Mayville, Louis Noltmeier, Valley
City F. B. Wood, Deering: Magnus
Johnson, Kimball, Minn. Benjamin
Drake, Minneapolis, and James Mana
han, St. Paul.
JAIL CHARGE CUTS THROAT
Resident of Ray Suicides in Williston
With "Razor Given Him to
Shave With.
Williston, N. D., July 19.—James
Wheeler, who was confined in the
county jail at this place on a charge
of blind pigging, and who Was a resi­
dent of Ray, committed suicide in the
jail by nearly severing his head from
his body with a razor. He had been
given a razor several times with which
to shave himself, and no one thought
of him having suicidal ideas.. After
shaving he handed the razor back to
the attendant, but asked for it again,
as he had not gotten a good shave.
When he received the razor the second
time he immediately slashed his
throat, dying almost immediately.
FOXHOLM FARMER
DROWNED IN THE MOUSE
Albert Olson, Aged 38 Years, Met
Death While Bathing Sun­
day Evening.
Albert Olson, aged 38 years, one of
the old settlers up Mouse river north­
east of Foxholm, met death from
drowning in Mouse river while bath­
ing Sunday evening. The body was
not recovered until Monday afternoon.
The funeral was held Tuesday, inter­
ment being made in the Vaagen ceme­
tery near the old Questad postoffice.
Olson and his wife's brother, Sam
Vaagen, had gone to the river to
bathe. Olson, who was a good swim­
mer, started to swim across the river,
which is quite wide at this point, when
he sank beneath the nlacid surface of
the stream. It is believed that he had
heart failure or was taken with
cramps.
Mr. Olson had lived in that vicinity
for the past fourteen years. He leaves
a wife and four children who have the
sympathy of a host of friends.
RAISING ASSESSMENTS
IN ALL TOWNSHIPS
The county commissioners sitting as
a board of equalization will complete
their work this week. They are rais­
ing the assessments in all townships
on farm lands an average of about 20
per cent, and are also raising the per­
sonal taxes to meet the requirements
of the state board of equalization. All
assessment books are now in.
Old Degenerate Guilty of Attacking
Babe.
James Connor, the old degenerate
who attacked the little four-year-old
Britton girl in a Soo box car recent­
ly, was tried in district court this
week. After the state had introduced
its revolting testimony, Connors
changed his plea to guilty of an at­
tempt to commit rape. The old man
is 60 years' old and instead of being
sent to the penitentiary, he should
spend the remainder of his worthless
days in an insane asylum.
Auslander Injured When Car Upsets
Henry Auslander was quite badly
injured Monday evening in an auto ac­
cident on the way to his farm south
of the city. He was running along at
a rapid speed when his car went off
a grade. He was pinned under the car
and his arm and shoulder were pain­
fully injured. The machine was badly
wrecked.
THE WARD COUNTY INDEPENDENT
WILL DEDICATE LARGE
MEMORIAL IffE ORGAII
Beautiful Instrument Presented by E.
Ellison and Family to First Luth­
eran Church Is Installed
The work of installing the large,
beautifully tonfed instrument was com­
pleted Wednesday. The organ was
manufactured by the Hinner Organ
Co., of Pekin, 111., and contains over
800 pipes. Experts who have played
it state that no better organ is manu­
factured.
Rev. Sigurd Ylvisaker, Ph. D., pro­
fessor at the Decorah, la., Lutheran
college, will deliver the dedicatory ad­
dress in the Norwegian language Sun­
day morning. He is a brother of the
late Mrs. Larsen, wife of Rev. Larsen,
for many years pastor of the First
Lutheran church. He spent consider­
able time in Minot, having charge of
the church for a time while Mr. and
Mrs. Larsen were in the west and was
a close personal friend of the popular
young men in whose memory the or­
gan is erected. Rev. T. F. Gullixson,
the popular pastor of the church, will
direct the choir of thirty voices at the
morning services and also in the con­
certs Sunday and Monday evening.
Wilhelm Ellison was born June 7,
1894, and died at Decorah, la., while at
school, Oct. 7, 1912.
Dr. Edward O. Ellison was born
July 11, 1889 and died in this city Aug.
13, 1915, being the victim of drowning.
Both of these young men were most
popular in the city. They had taken
great interest in church work and had
often expressed the wish that a pipe
organ might some day be installed.
Two organ recitals will be giv&n,
one Sunday evening and the other on
Monday evening, by Prof. Carl Rup
precht,' a musician of note, who has
appeared at the Chicago Auditorium
and other well known places. He is
on his way to Glacier park for an out-
THE INDEPENDENT HAS THE LARGEST CIRCULATION OF ANY WE EKLY PAPER IN THE STATE
The beautiful memorial pipe organ
Ey
resented to the First Luthrean church
Mr. E. Elision and family in mem­
ory of their deceased sons, Wilhelm
and Edward O., will be dedicated next
Sunday morning.
II
FIRST LUTHERAN CHURCH
ing and it was fortunate that his ser­
vices could be secured. The small ad­
mission of 35 cents will be charged at
each recital, to defray the expenses.
The following is the program for Mon­
day evening:
Concert Overture—A. Hollins.
Toccata in C—J. S. Bach.
Andante Cantabile from Fourth
Symphony—C. M. Widor.
Caprice in Flat—A. Guilmant.
Vocal Solo, "Come Unto Me"—Miss
Rut.h Ellison.
Sonata No. 6.—F. Mendelssohn.
Variations de Concert—J. Bonnet.
126th Psalm, Wennerberg—By Miss
Martha Reishus and Chorus.
Psalm 94—J. Reubke.
Meditation—Morandi.
Bell Rondo—Morandi.
Vical Solo, "O, Divine Redeemer"—
Miss Olia Stromrud.
Marche Funebre et Chant Sera
phique—A. Guilmant.
The Holy Night—D. Buck.
Pomp and Circumstances—E. Elgar.
At Monday's recital there will be
three numbers by Mr. Rupprecht, sev­
eral by the chorus and vocal solos will
be rendered by Miss Sigrid Reishus
and Miss Nora Fauchald, the latter
just back from Brooklyn, where she
has received musical training.
ORPET ACQUITTED OF MUR­
DERING LAMBERT GIRL
Wm. Orpet, the Madison, Wis., uni­
versity student, charged with the mur­
der of his former sweetheart, Marian
Lambert, was found not guilty after
the jury had been out five hours. On
the first ballot the vote stood 11 to 1
for acquittal.
Detectives Dismissed
Stocking and McGillcuddy, the G.
N. detectives who were arrested on a
charge of shooting at Joe Romatka
and wife, were released by Judge
Lynch at their hearing Wednesday.
The men had been hasty in shooting
at the machinist and his wife, but
they were not guilty of any intent at
wrong.
AVI
Thursday, July
TO BE ERECTED
ot Auto Co. Have Plans for New
$85,000 Building, 100 Foot Front
Two Acre Floor Space
Plans have been drawn by Archi­
tect Frost for a new five story fire­
proof building for the Minot Auto Co.
with a 100-foot front at an approxi­
mate cost of $85,000, the erection of
which will be under way within the
next two weeks and will be pushed to
completion at the earliest possible
date.
This new building will be erected
north of the present quarters of the
Minot Auto company and will give
them 225 feet frontage and a floor
space of nearly two acres. Their new
Srom
iuarters will be in an ideal location
a wholesale standpoint, as the
Soo Line already has a side track
along one side of the building. It is
also splendidly located from a retail
standpoint on account of being locat­
ed at the head of the viaduct—one of
the busiest corners in Minot.
The Minot Auto company has found
it necessary to erect this new building
on account of the wonderful growth of
its Overland business during the past
three years. They now have one of
the largest distributing contracts un­
der the Overland factory", having sold
over 2,500 Overland automobiles dur­
ing the past twelve months.
This building will be equipped with
an elevator, will be practically all
^lass on three sides, and when finished
it will, together with their present
quarters, which will still be used, pro­
vide the Minot Auto company with the
most complete and up-to-date automo­
biles establishment in the middle west.
Tthe entire ground floor will be used
for show room, offices and stock room.
The show room will occupy a space
approximately 50x100 feet. It will
be equipped with tile floors. Plate
glass windows will be used along the
entire north side facing the viaduct
leading to the Great Northern passen­
ger depot and plate glass windows will
faop Second street. It is the Minot
company's intention to have a
show room that will rival in beauty
and convenience any display room of
its kind in this part of the country—a
display room that will be sufficiently
large and attractive to properly dis-.
plav all the new Overland models.
The entrance to the offices will also
front on Second street and they will be
spacious and fully in keeping with the
size and progressiveness of the Minot
Auto company. A large portion of the
ground floor will be used for stock
room, in which will be carried a large
stock of parts for all Overland and
Willys-Knight models. It is the aim
of the Minot Auto company to be able
to supply all Overland cars in their
territory with any repair parts that
ever may be needed, promptly. They
deem it one of the most important fea­
tures of the automobile business to be
equipped so that they can give imme­
diate service to owners of Overland
cars.
All the partitions will be removed
from the present garage floor. This
will give them 100 square feet space
for transient storage. It is their in­
tention also to use one entire floor of
their new building for transient stor­
age, This will provide facilities for
storing at least 200 cars. In this de­
partment will be carried a complete
line of automobile supplies for the
convenience of motorists.
Another entire floor of the new
luilding will be given over to the use
of the repair department and will be
completely fitted with all modern
equipment. It is the intention of the
management to secure a corps of ex­
pert mechanics, who are specialists in
their respective branches of automo­
bile repair work.
On the top floor two wash racks will
bo placed in charge of competent men.
These will be fitted so that warm wat­
er will be provided, which has been
found to give much better results for
washing cars. This feature of the Mi­
not Auto company's service will fill a
long felt want in Minot, as it has here­
tofore been practically impossible for
an owner to have his car washed with­
out a great deal of delay.
The paint shop will also be located
on the top floor and will be fitted with
a dust-proof drying room and will be
in charge of an experienced and com­
petent painter. This will afford an
opportunity for car owners in Minot
to have their machines refinished and
made as attractive in appearance as
they were when first turned out from
the factory. This feature will be very
much appreciated by car owners of
Minot, as heretofore it has not been
possible to have refinishing done in a
thoroughly satisfactory manner.
When the Minot Auto company is
established in their new quarters they
estimate that they will employ be­
tween seventy-five and a hundred peo­
ple and as practically all branches of
the automobile business require ex­
perienced help or in other words, high
salaried people, they estimate that
their annual pay-roll will run very
close to $100,000 per year. This will
without doubt greatly exceed the Day
roll of any other private undertaking
ir the City of Minot. As every dollar
of this money is being spent among
Minot business firms, this should en­
title the Minot Auto company to the
most hearty support of Minot business
interests.
20, 1916. Subscription $1.50 Per Annum
Thos. Waddick Joins the Benedicts
Tom Waddick, manager of Myers &
Co., grain commission brokers of this
city, stole a march on the knowing
ones by slipping away quietly about
ten days ago, returning Wednesday
evening with his bride, formerly Miss
Ilelga Holt of Fargo. The happy cou­
ple journeyed to Hudson, Wis., where
they were quietly married last Satur­
day. Hudson wafe the scene of their
courtship when they were children at
school and naturally its romantic as­
sociations held many memories that
were dear to them, consequently it was
selected as the place to plight their
vows. On account of a press of work
at this time it was not convenient for
them to take an extended wedding trip
but later they plan a delightful trip
west, intending to spend a few months
on the coast and possibly a trip to
Honolulu. The Independent extends
heartiest congratulations and best
wishes to Mr. and Mrs. Waddick.
SCARCITY OF FIRST
CLASS WORKMEN
So Many Buildings Under Construc­
tion That Labor is Scarce—Many
Fine Buildings Planned.
Architect Woodruff informs the In­
dependent that building operations are
being hampered greatly by a shortage
of skilled workmen. In spite of the
fact that they are paying first class
brick-layers 85 cents an hour and 05
cents for first class carpenters at the
present time, contractors of this city
are bending every energy to secure a
sufficient supply of workmen. The
plans are now in readiness for the
new A. Baker block which will be
erected on East Central avenue. This
building will be 40 by 70 feet in size,
with two stories and full basement.
Fronting on Central avenue and Third
street, on Third street will be one
store and on Central avenue there will
be two. The upper floor will be occu­
pied by apartments. This building
will add quite materially to the gen­
eral appearance of this section of the
city. Other buildings for which plans
have been drawn are the Shaw-Brun
ner block on First street S. E., which
will be 140 by 37 1-2 feet and two
stories in height—the front portion
will be three stories. A full basement
will afford the Emerson-Todd Auto
Co every facility for storage purposes.
The first floor will be occupied by
them as a salesroom and for office
quarters. Work is progressing nicely
on the extension of the Minot Trans­
fer Co.'s block adjoining the Shaw
Brunner block and it is expected that
the building will be ready for occu­
pancy by August 1. The big McCoy
block on S. Main street will be started
within a few days. This block will
have a frontage of 50 feet and a depth
of 134 feet. It will be three stories
with full basement. Mrs. M. E. Dwire
has had plans drawn for a fine build­
ing which she will erect at the comer
of S. Main and Third avenue. This
building will be two stories and base­
ment, but the plans call for walls cap­
able of supporting two additional
floors, which will be added later. The
first floor will contain stores while
the upper floors will be fitted up as
apartments.
CARNIVAL MAN WAS
ARRESTED AT CARPIO
E. T. Baird Pays Fine of $10 and
Costs for Operating Skin Games in
Connection With His Shows.
E. T. Baird, who had charge of a
carnival -how which appeared at Car-
T'io
Tuesday, was arrested and brot to
Minot that afternoon by Deputy Sher­
iffs Vandenoever and Shirley, charged
with operating several gambling de­
vices. The gambling- paraphernalia
was confiscated. Baird pleaded guilty
before Judge Murray, who gave him
a fine of $10 with $24 costs.
The complaint was made by Rev.
C. W. Finwall, who is working with
Watkins. Baird's devices were very
crude. There were posts and rinsrs, so
many throws for a dime. The sheriff
says he could not drive one of those
rings over the post with a sledge ham­
mer.
Negro Pleads Guilty to Assault.
James Butler, colored, who in a jeal­
ous fit cut the throat of his sweet­
heart, Marie Richardson, at a Fourth
of July picnic, pleaded guilty to as­
sault with a dangerous weapon with
intent to do great bodily harm. The
woman has about recovered.
1
COST OF PRINT MAKES REMARKABLE LEAP
PRICE MORE THAN DOUBLES DURING FOUR MONTHS
Print paper has just taken another tremendous leap. The Indepen­
dent has just placed an order for a car-load of print at the remarkably
high price of $5.50 per hundred weight, which with freight added will
make this print cost us $6.00 per hundred. We were fortunate to get
the acceptance of this order under any circumstances, for we are large
users of print and we are determined to keep in the game regardless of
cost.
The car of print which we have just ordered will cost us fully
$1,000 more than the last car which we received. We use nearly three
carloads of print paper each year, more than any other exclusive weekly
newspaper in North Dakota. At this rate, our print will cost us ap­
proximately $3,000 more per year, in addition to a great increase in the
cost of inkk, and other printing materials.
The Independent has been compelled to increase its subscription
price from $1.00 per year to $1.50—not much of an increase, but enough
to enable us to keep running. Were we not to do this, it would be im­
possible to continue the publication, for we should do so at a great loss.
With the new price in effect, we will be enabled to keep on giving
our readers the best weekly newspaper in northwestern North Dakota,
which we propose to do. This increase is but very slight, an average of
only a penny a week, but we believe that our readers will agree with
us that it is quite necessary. All whe are paid in advance, naturally,
will not be effected by this increase until the expiration, but from this
date on, the subscription price of the Independent will be $1.50 per year.
All who are in arrears will be charged up to the present time at the
old rate, $1.00 per year, but the price in advance of this date is $1.50.
Canadian subscriptions received at the rate of $2.00 per annum.
BOARD OF MAM
MAKESJI13,OOflLEW
L. J. Palda New Chairman of Board—
T. F. Iienwald and Mrs. You
mans Library Board.
The annual meeting of the board of
education of the Minot Special school
district was held Tuesday evening.
TTie reports of the secretary and treas­
urer were accepted.
L. J. Palda was elected chairman of
the board for the ensuing year. L. J.
Byerly was elected secretary and Sor
en O. Hagen, treasurer.
Mrs. T. N. Yeomans and T. F. Ren
wald are the new members of the pub­
lic library board.
The board of education levied $113,
000 for school purposes and named the
Second National bank as depositary
for the ensuing year.
NEWCOMER ATTEMPTS SUICIDE
S. Korden of Minneapolis Drank Four
Ounces of Lysol But Lives to Tell
the Tale—Trouble Over Ring
S. Korden, a recent arrival in Minot,
attmpted to commit suicide at 11:30
o'clock Monday morning at his home
just west of the Home hotel. He
wrote a lengthy note to his wife and
then drank the contents of a four
ounce bottle of Lysol. When a doc­
tor arrived 30 minutes later, Korden
was unconscious. He was taken to
the hospital where he regained con­
sciousness after several hours. He is
recovering nicely and will probably be
taken home today.
He appears to be sorry for his act
and it is believed that he hasn't the
sand to try the feat over.
Korden lives in one of the small
houses in the west end of the city with
a woman he claims is his wife and
with his sister. It appears that he had
taken possession of a diamond ring be
longing to the woman he calls his sis
ter. This caused a rumpus and he
grew despondent and decided to shuf
fle off. The man and the women re
cently came to Minot from the Twin
Cities.
In his note Korden said he was noth­
ing but a criminal anyway and had
nothing to live for.
GREAT JULY SAIf
ATM'
Complete Announcement of Big Event
Made This Week—Will Attract
Buvers from Long Distance.
Complete announcement of the an­
nual July Clearance Sale at the Mc­
Coy Department stores, appears in
this issue.
This sale will prove the greatest
July event in the history of the state.
The business at Minot's fast growing
store has been growing each month
and the stocks are larger and bettei
than ever. Bargains will be given in
every one of the eleven departments
and the sale will undoubtedly attract
a great many buyers from along dis­
tance.
Richardson Guilty of Pettit Larceny
Wm. Richardson, charged with grand
larceny, was convicted in district court
I Wednesday on a lesser charge, petit
I larceny. Richardson was charged
with stealing a copper boiler from
the Granite Springs Products com
pany. He claimed he had bought the
I boiler from hoboes. It was shown
I that he had visited the company twice
endeavoring to buy the old boiler,
which was worth nearly $100.
Received Both Nominations.
Wm. Murray, candidate for county
judge and R. W. Kennard for county
auditor, have received their certifi­
cates of nomination on both the re­
publican and democratic county tick­
ets and their names will appear on
both ballots at the November election.
•:V vTV^ 'jv j'.
4
$
FIRST
SECTION
