i
WEEKLY
rTTV
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULa.
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU, i i i
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. t i s
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV
THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, JULY 20. 1916.
NUMBER 28.
C. G. & N. STILL
PENDING BEFORE
STORM DESTROYS
ITALY IS READY
TO DECLARE WAR
Society Debutantees and Matrons In Parade
At Newport, Evidence of Their Patronism.
BARN; CROPS GET
NEEDED SOAKING
RIBTINF
ON THE GERMAN:
JUDGE SANBORN
R. H. Schultz Believes Frisco
Sale Means Rehabilitation
of Houck Line.
WOULD BOST $400,000
TO REVAMP RAILROAD
Court Will Decide What Frisco
Must Pay C. G. & N.
Bondholders.
That the Cape Girardeau & North
ern Railroad will Le rehabilitated and
made a part of the Frisco system as a
dire-t result of the sale of the latter
roal, was the opinion expressed yes
terday by R. H. Schultz, manager for
the receiver of the C. G. & N.
The sale of the Frisco does not mean
that the C. G. & N. is automatically
sold, Mr. Schultz declared, but it aids
in bringing to a focus the final dis
position of the Cape County road.
The exact disposition of the Houck
line Ftill is unknown and deDends al
most entirely on another decision byl
Judge Sanborn of the U. S. District
Court in a suit brought by Mr. Houck
to determine the amount of the
damages due bondholders of the C. G.
& N. on a liability which the court held
the Frisco had to make good.
All the testimony in this case now
pending before Sanborn was intro
duced at a hearing before a special
master during the week of July, 3 to
10, last. The hearing was held in St.
Loui3 before Tom J. Fauntleroy as
spefi.il master.
The history of the liability of the
Frisco for C. G. & N. bonds traces it
self through the last four or five years
of the road's financial chronicles.
In the latter part of 1912 the offi
cials of the Frisco commissioned the
A. Jl. Byrd & Sons Investment Com
pany, a New York concern, to acquire
the Houck railroads in Cape and Perry
counties. J. H. Byrd, president of that invest
ment company, came down to the Cape
and let it be known that he was acting
for the Frisco in acquiring' the Houck
lines. He organized the Cape Girar
deau & Northern out of the former
HouViC lines. That deal was consum
mated February 1, 1913.
The stocks of the Houck lines were
taken over and a contract drawn
whereby the C. G. & N. would issue
$1,500,000 in bonds which should be
guaranteed by the Frisco. The value
of the bonds at that time was cirtually
fixed by the Frisco's guarantee.
Of the bond isue, $457,000 in the
first i.-sue, was to be devoted to mak
ing improvements on the road. Of that
issue $150,000 was floated and the
monr?y was used in getting the work
of repairing the road and getting it
into good shape for profitable opera
tion, under way.
Much timber had been purchased,
parts of the track had been prepared
for ballasting and the work was in
full swing when the Frisco was thrown
into receivership.
The receivers for the Frisco then re
pudiated the contract to guarantee the
C. G. & N. bonds and, declared they
wouli not take over the Houck lines,
because the Frisco did not need them.
That action destroyed any value in
the C. G. & N. bonds that had been
floated and made it impossible for the
road to sell any other bonds. The road
was forced into a receivership itself
by this action, because it could not
pay its obligations.
Mr. Houck, who owns 85 per cent of
the $1,500,000 issue of bonds, there
upon filed a suit in the District Court
against the Frisco Company seeking to
get a decree of the court ordering the
company to maintain its contract and
guarantee the railroad's bonds.
The case was referred to Mr. Fount
leroy as special master, and at the
close of several hearings, Mr. Faunt
leroy made a rtfportln which he rec
ommended that the bonTcontract was
a binding obligation. He also recom
mended a judgment for $1,500,000
against the Frisco' company in favor
of the bondholder
Judge Sanborn in giving his deci
sion in that case, then held that the
bond contract of tfce Frisco company
was a valid and bidding obligation, but
he said that the iraster had erred in
T
Freshet in Byrd Creeks Car
ries Away Thresher's Sep
erator and Smashes It.
DOWNPOUR LIKENED
UNTO CLOUDBURST
Cape Was on Outskirts of Rain
That Will Make Corn
Crops.
In the severe eleltrical and rain
storm that passed over the northern
part of Cape County yesterday after
noon, one barn filled with new-mown
hay was destroyed and a threshing
outfit's separator was smashed to
pieces in a freshet that caught it as
it was trying to ford Byrd Creek.
The rain fall was so heavy in parts
of that end of the county that many
persons believed it was a cloudburst.
The streams were swollen out of their
banks and considerable crop damage
was reported.
News of the accidents in the country
was brought to the Cape late yester
day evening. In the Cape, the north
ern end of the city reeivecs the heav
iest rainfall. The rainfall was com
paratively light in the Cape and in
some places the dust that was several
inches in depth, was not allayed by the
downpour.
Although the storm was severe, it is
believed that where the storm hit with
the most of its fury, the crops will be
better for the water soakinc thev re
ceived.
' In many parts of the county corn
crops now are at a stage where the
ears are in the making. Farmers say
it is the crucial piod for their grain
crop. A rain at this time meant the
ears will be Well formed and large,
whereas the lack of water would mean
the corn would be stunted.
Lightning struck the barn of John
J. Steeg, three miles south of Egy:
Mill ;, about 5 o'clock yesterday after
noon and resulted in the complete de
struction of the barn and its contents.
Mr. Steeg had just filled his barn with
hay, a crop taken from his own land.
Several horses inside the barn were
saved by the men, but virtually noth
ing else was saved from the fire that
was started by the bolt of lightning.
The barn and its contents are esti
mated in value at. $1000 and, Mr. Steeg
had his property partly covered by in-
surance. 1
The storm in the immediate vicinity
of Egypt Mills was severe.
A freshet in Byrd Creek wiped out
the seperator of James Howard, a;
thresherman, who was trying to get
his outfit across the creek at the bridge
on the Oak Ridge road.
Mr. Howard and his men had select
ed the sandy floor of the creek bottom
on which to ford the creek rather than
attempt to cross the stream over the
iron bridge at that point.
When his engine had virtually cross
ed the stream, the separator became
mired down and he could not move it.
While he and his crew tried to extri
cate the separator from the bed of the
creek, the storm arrived.
The men made a last effort to pull
the separator out and as the waters
of the creek rose rapidly around the
machine, Mr. Howard ordered the sep
arator cut loose and he drove the
tractor engine out of the danger of
water.
The creek banks soon were filled
high up and the rushing freshet seized
the seperator and carried it 300 feet
downstream where the flood smashed
it completely in two against a side of
the stream.
None of the men of the threshing crew
was injured as the water carried off
the part of the machinery.
At noon yesterday a slight rainfall
a mile on the other side of the County
Farm between the Cape and Jackson,
which is believed to have done much
benefit for the crops in that vicinity.
The rain began falling in the Cape
about 4 :30 o'clock yesterday afternoon
and lasted but comparatively a short
time. The rainfall and storm north of
the Cape was accompanied by a drop
of several degrees in temperature.
Frank Kimmel and Dean Kimmel
were caught in the storm that swept
over the northern part of the county
when they went to a farm six miles
north of the Cape to buy some stock.
The sorli'ty folk suininorin :it
matrons and debutantes all dressed
FRISCO SALE A CUT
AND DRIED AFFAIR
KnehansSajs Auction Was Run
According to Printed
Directions.
City Counselor O. A. Knehans early
this morning returned from St. Louis
where he attended the sale of the Fris
co system under foreclosure decree of
Jude Sanborn, and pronounced the
auction of the road a "cut and dried"
affair, carried out as prearranged ac
cording to printed "scenarios" furnish
ed by Frisco officials and the reorgani
zation committee.
Mr. Knehans told the story of one
of the "scenarios" that he obtained in
which every step that transpired dur
ing the sale was written out in detail.
This was found in the printed form
that put the words into the mouth of
Trustee Tom Fauntlerov. auctioneer.
as well as Basil B. Elmer and William
B. Fhillirs, New Yoik capitalists,
who did the bidding.
To conduct the sale required two
hours, during which time, the fifty men
concerned in the transaction stood be
side a sizzling hot roundhouse in the
Frisco yards at 3900 Chouteau avenue,
St. Louis, and under a sun that was
broiling. Locomotives, whose destinies
the sale controlled, puffed back and
forth, Mr. Knehans said, impressing
their audience with the volume of
smoke and steam they could belch at
the lawyers and capitalists.
The sale started at noon when Mr.
Fauntleroy began reading the notice
of sale. This alone required more than
the first hour. At the close of the reci
tation of the notice, Mr. Fauntleroy
extended Mr. Knehans an opportunity
to read Cape Girardeau's notice to the
prospective purchasers.
Til? notice served a warning upon
the tentative buyers of the Frisco sys
tem that the city of Cape Girardeau
will expect a lawful maintenance of
the Frisco franchise contract after the
reorganization committee takes charge
of the line.
Under the terms of the franchise
which the city has extended to the
Frisro, the railroad is supposed to
erect a wall on the riverfront, build a
$35,000 station, maintain certain shops
here and maintain a 60-cent coal rate
into the Cape from the Marion, 111.,
coal field.
A certified copy of this notice was
handed to Mr. Fauntleroy by Mr. Kne
hans after he had read it. This will
be included in Mr. Fauntleroy's report
of the sale to Judge Sanborn and in
that manner it becomes a court record
that the city of Cape Girardeau gave
notice of the contract with the Frisco,
in the event litigation arises over the
abrogation of the contract.
Jt. B. Oliver also was present at the
sale r.nd read a similar notice for the
Little River Drainage District, insist
ing upon the drainage district's rights
in litigation over the construction of
a bridge over one of the diversion
channels.
While the sale was being conducted,
Mr. Knehans noticed that some of the
officials were apparently reading their
parts from a printed sheet. The vari
ous parts of the Frisco system were
described on the sheet and the bids
(Continued on page 5)
A it js
Newport had
in white.
:i patriotix: parade, the largest division of which was formed of
KAGEFAVORS SPLASH
POOL FOR JUVENILES
Boys and Girls Alike Enjoy
Swim in Bottom of War
Statue in Park.
After he had witnessed more than
a score of boys ranging in age from
8 to 15 years old splash and splatter
to their heart's content yesterday aft
ernoon in the bottom of the fountain
in th? Courthouse Park, Mayor Kage
last night declared he will make every
effort to have & permanent children's
swimming pool made jn the city park
at Lorimier and William street.
The water running into the fountain
was turned on full force and the pool
at the bottom was kept almost level
full s that it broug the water belt
deep on the youngsters.
Their use of the pool convinced many
grown-ups who passed by of the ur
gent need for such a playground for
the youngsters. The boys donned over
alls and some even had regular swim
ming suits. They dove from the sides
of the fountain and performed many
trices for the benefit of the circle of
bystanders who gathered.
Later in the evening when the crowd
of boys began to thin out, their places
were taken by girls who got an equal
measure of enjoyment in splashing and
sputtering with their eyes, nose and
mouth full of water.
When Mayor Kage told the boys who
applied to him fo rpermission to ton
vert the fountain pool into a splashing
pool, that they could use it, he enjoin
ed them from throwing the water out
side the pool more than they could
help and warned them not to abuse
their privilege.
Yesterday afternoon, one of the boys
who had not been taken into the may
or's confidence, made a misstep and
he topn became the center of a half
dozen of his comptf-sns who posted
him on regulations and warned him
that an infringement meant that all
lost tne privilege of the pool.
Mayor Kage last night declared that
he had been informed "by a St. Louis
landscape architect that to build a
swimming pool in the city park at
Lorimier and William street, would
mean an outlay of $50,000 or $60,000.
The mayor said he feels confident
that something may be arranged at a
cost relatively low which will serve the
purpose of the Cape Girardeau chil
dren as well as a high-priced pool. He
declared that he will try to see that the
children get what the city can afford
Permission to swim in the lake at
Fairgrounds Park has not been ex
tended by th.e mayor because of the
fact that swimmers would frighten
away the city's geese and ducks that
make their home on the lake, as well
as disturb the fish wtth which the lake
is being stocked. A sewerpipe also
empties into the lake which makes it
undesirable.
BASEBALL SCORES.
American.
St. Louis 4-9-2; New York 5-8-2.
Chicago 2-6-3; Washington 6-8-2.
Detroit 5-14-4; Boston 9-11-1. 4
'Cleveland 12-12-1; Philadelphia 5-9-4.
National.
Brooklyn 1-10-1; Pittsburg 2-7-2.
New York 8-11-2; Chicago 6-12-3.
Boston 10-13-0; St. Louis 1-6-1.
ATKINSON SURE TO
WIN, SAYS KELSO
Speaker Attacks Other Democra
tic Gubernatorial Candidates
Before Small Crowd,
I. R. Kelso, Russell Dearmont, Prof.
W. W. Martin of the Normal School,
and Lee Bowman last night addressed
a small gathering at the Courthouse
in behalf of John M. Atkinson. About
fifty people were present.
Mr. Kelso, who is the attorney for
electric light interests in St. Louis, is
one of Mr. Atkinson's chief campaign
ers. He said Mr. Atkinson would be
nominated by the Democratic party for
governor.
Russell Dearmont, who presided as
chairman, held the same view that Mr.
Kelso did. Prof. Martin, who was in
vited to address the meeting, said he
was glad Mr. Atkinson had indorsed a
new constitution for Missouri.
Lee Bowman, who is going to be
drafted by the Democratic party to fill
out the vacancy on the county ticket
for prosecuting attorney, rebuked The
Tribune. He charged this newspaper
with attempting to dictate the nom
inees on both tickets. "The Tribune
admits that John Atkinson is one of
the leading candidates," shouted Bow
man, "and when The Tribune admits
that much for one of its enemies, it
must be true."
Benson C. Hardesty and Prof. Dear
mont, who occupied seats in the rear
of the crowd, furnished the applause.
They clapped several times during the
meeting.
Mr. Kelso, who was billed as the
stellar attraction, spent most of his
time attacking other Democratic can
didates Tor. governor, but he did not
mention their names.
Jjhn M. Atkinson will be in Cape
Girardeau next Monday evening to
speuk at the Courthouse, it was an
nounced last night by his supporters.
It is expected that he will spend a
day in this county.
Atkinson leaders in this city say he
will carry Cape Girardeau County over
any of his opponents. They say that
as the wet and dry issues have been
brought into prominence, Atkinson will
get a majority of the Democratic votes
because they contend that fully sixty-
five per cent of the Democratic vote in
Cape Girardeau County are dry.
ITALIANS ARREST SWISS
AS GERMAN SPIES
Berne, Jury .19. A new and serious
controversy has arisen between Switz
erland and Italy. During the last four
weeks the Swiss Government has re
ceived appeals for aid from six Swiss
citizens who have been arresled in Mi
lan, Genoa, Broscia and other Italian
cities as German spies.
The Swiss Minister in Tiome was in
structed to demand the immediate re
lease of the arrested men, but the
Italian Government declined this re
quest with the claim that the alleged
spies are disguised Germans and Aus-tro-Hungarian
officers.
The Swiss Government has furnish
ed'the birth certificates of the six men
together with documentary proofs that
they have never Seen naturalized in
any foreign country, but the Italian
authorities still refuse to release them.
Amsterdam Hears Declaration will
be Issued Within the Next few
Days Message From Official
Source.
BOTH SIDES CLAIM GAINS
ALONG THE DEADLY FRONTS
German Messag Predicts the Fall
of Verdun Within the Next
Month ,London Hears Russians
Reported Gaining.
Amsterdam, July 19 A declaration of war by Italy against Germany is
emected to be made within the next
received today from official sources in Italy.
London, July 19 The Germans opened a great bombardment north of
Verdun today. An Amsterdam dispatch says the German authorities predict
the fall of Verdun within a month.
London, July 19. It is understood tonight that the vote of credit which
is to be announced next week will be for $l,.r,00,000.000. About $11,900,000,
000 has already been voted by Great Britain since the war started.
London, July 19. The Russian tide is rolling slowly on the rear of the
Austrian army. Two important passes in the Carpathians were captured by
the Russians today, and it is believed that rn invasion of Hungary has be
gun. The Russians have brought up heavy reinforcements of infantry and
cavalry.
Vienna, July 19. In Bukowina the Russians were driven across the
Pruth river, losing 300 prisoners, says the official dispatch from the front
tonight.
Washington, July 19. It became known today that President Wilson
has made an effort to dissuade England from blacklisting the American firms
which are friendly to Germany. England's action will further aggrevate the
trade controversy, and as a counter movement, many American firms are
banding together to decrease England's buying in this country.
El Paso, Tex., July 19. A dispatch from Chihuahua City says the train
that was looted as Casas Grandes, carried supplies for Gen. Trevino's army
instead of Gen Pershing, as was first reported.
A Carranza guard of 100 were routed by the bandits after six of Car
ranza's men had been slain. Besides a vast quantity of food, a million rounds
of ammunition were secured. The bandits removed the spikes from the rails
near Palomas. The locomotive and two cars plunged into a gulch, killing
the engineer.
El Paso, Tex., July 19. According to reports from Mexico City, a famine
is threatened there. The supply of food has been cut off by the revolutionary
forces and the stock on hand is getting alarmingly low.
Berlin, July 19. Recapture of the
village of Longueval and Delville
Wood from the British in a violent
German counterattack, was announced
by the War Office this afternoon.
German naval planes last night bom
barded enemy cruisers, torpedo boats,
submarines and military establish
ments at the Russian naval port of Re-
val, on the Gulf of Finland, it was offi
cially announced this afternoon. The
planes were accompanied by a Ger
man squadron.
"A number of hits were obtained on
enemy warships," said the Admiralty
statement. "One submarine was hit
four times. Large conflagrations were
observed on the dock. All the Ger
man aeroplanes returned."
Repeated attacks by Gen. Kuropat-
kin's Russian army on the front of
Field Marshal von Hindenburg, south
west of Riga, broke down with heavy
enemy losses, the Water Office an
nounced this afternoon.
In Volhynia artillery combats con
tinued in the region west and south
west cf the fortress of Lutzk.
Ths village of Longueval, which was
captured by the British at heavy cost
of life in a resumption of the great
allied offensive, was stormed and re
taken by the Germans in heavy fight
ing last night. With the capture of
Delville wood, it marks the, greatest
success for the Germans in counter at
tacking the British front since the al
lied offensive began.
By recapturing Longueval, the Ger
mans not only hold up the British ad
vance toward Bapaume over the high
way from Bray, but check any further
advance by the French north of the
Somme.
British attacks north of Ovillers and
south of Pozieres, on the German left
win, were dispersed. French attacks
north of Barleux and in the region
of Belloy-en-Santerre were checked.
On the Verdun front the French con
tinued their fruitless attacks in the
region of Froide Terre.
few days. This announcement vVas
Berlin, via London. July 19. The re
capture by German rtoops of the vil
lage of Longueval and Delville Wood
was announced today by the War Of
fice. Tiu? official statement, says:
"Western front: In the Somme dis
trict, the village of Longueval and Del
ville Wood adjoining were recaptured
last night from the British after fierce
fighting by Madgeburg Twenty-sixth
Infantry Regiment. In addition to
heavy, sanguinary losses, the British
lost eight officers and 280 men in pris
oners and left aonsiderable number of
machine guns in our hands.
"Eenemy attacks on our position
north of Ovillers and against the
southern edge of Pozieres were dis
persed by our curtain of fire and had
not the slightest success anywhere.
"South of the Somme, French local
attacks failed to the north of Barleux
and near Belloy. At other points they
were checked at the outset.
"On the right bank of the Meuse the
enemy continued his fruitless ecorts
against our lines on Froide Terre
Ridge."
LINUS PENZEL HURTS FOOT
Ran Nail Through it While Repairing
Bridge Near Jackson.
Linus Penzel, well-known Jackson
man, is recovering this week from an
injury in his foot he sustained when he
stepped upon a rusty nail while aid
ing ;n repair work on a bridge.
Mr. Penzel was working on the
bridge about a mile west of Jackson on
the Jackson-Burfordville road when he
stepped on a plank that had the nail
driven through it. The nail penetrated
his shoe and passed. Jthrough the arch
of his foot and at the time of the acci
dent, Monday, it was pronounced dangerous.
(Continued oil PJ fiive-
r
I
