7r"i"9
UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1916
NUMBER 276
y FAIR E
ARE HEM PUNNED
Directors Are Arranging Fea
tures for Every Member
of the Family.
PRIZES ARE OFFERED
Mule-Colt Show Special At
traction Embroidery Con
test on the Program.
The annua Boone County Fair, to
be held here August 1 to 4 inclusive,
will be one of the largest ever given
here, according to reports. The scope
of the fair is so large that it will in
terest every member of the family.
There are races anil exhibitions for
the men. contests for the children and
in Floral Hall there will be many dis
plays for the women.
The horse races will be the chief
attraction of the fair. There are also
to be mule races. The exhibition of
ponies should be of interest to the
children.
On the first day prizes will be
given as follows: model horse, marc
or gelding; harness mare or gelding;
saddle stallion; roadster, mare or
gelding; harness gelding; saddle geld
ing; best saddle horse, mare or geld
ing; harness mare; best harness
horse, mare or gelding. A fast mule
race will also be staged Tuesday.
For the second day the following
prizes for horses are scheduled: har
ness colt; best pony mare; best pony
eolt; saddle gelding; best harness
pony; best heavy harness horse, mare
or gelding; combination horse, mare
or gelding; best saddle pony; horse,
mare or gelding, walk or trot; junior
harness horse, best saddle horse,
mare or gelding. The prize for the
latter will total $1,000. First place
will receive $200.
.Many Oilier Prizes Chen.
Other second day prizes are: best
mule, any age; pair mules; best pair
cotton mules; jack, any age; jack and
three of his get; best horse mule; best
horse mule colt; best mule, 1 to 2
years old; best mule. 2 to 3 years old;
Another feature of the day will be
a slow mule race, the prizes being
$7.50 and $2.50 respectively.
These classes will be judged on the
third day: saddle colt, under 1 year;
saddle gelding; roadster team; sad
dle stallion; saddle mare; best draft
team; best saddle pony; best draft
mare; best draft colt; best draft stal
lion; best running walk or plantation
horse, mare or gelding; light harness
horse, mare or gelding. There are sev
eral special prizes offered to the win
ners of draft horses and the harness
stake.
The big event of the fourth day
will be the $1,000 Mule-Colt Show,
given by the Columbia Retail Mer
chants' Association. The prizes will
be $300. $250, $200, $175. $25. $15. $10,
..- and $5 respectively.
Other horse events for the fourth
day are; saddle bred colt; saddle
mare; runabout marc or gelding; har
ness stallion: best woman rider; har
ness stallion; harness gelding and
junior saddle stake, saddle horse.
mare or gelding; Prizes totaling $250
will be offered for the winners of the
last event.
Sewing Prizes Arc Offered.
Among hand-made articles, prizes
will be given in nine different classes.
Part of them arc for French embroid
ery, cross-stitch embroidery, English
eyelet embroidery, tatting, crocheting,
wool crocheting. A special class is
made for boys and girls under 15
years old for sewing and paintings.
The agricultural department will
give prizes for grains, seeds and sev
eral kinds of fruit. Prizes are to be
given for displays of honey.
The poultry department promises to
have an interesting exhibit. There
will be many prizes for chickens, tur
keys, ducks, eggs and capons. A spe
cial division has been made for chil-j
dren to enter this event.
The following iMTsnno will lx- In olianre
of tin- ilepartinent: sail, He hors-os-Il. '!.
THE CALENDAR
July IK), Tliursdjy Chautauqua : Ojibwny '
Indians ami a farming tfeinonstra-1
Hon liy I'rof. J. W. Hencerotb, at:
.1 p. ni. OJiliwny Indians, present-1
lug Longfellow's Indian passion
..I ..III ....... l.n C n . '
July Si. Tuesday University Assembly
lecture by Ir. Albert S. Cook,
ruunty superintendent of schools,
Maryland.
Julv IHi, Wednesday Evening Assembly
session by Miss Christine Tlnllng
of Norfolk. Va.
Julv L'T. Thursday Assembly lecture by
llr. Alliert S. Cook.
July 27, Thursday Evening Assembly ses
sion by .Miss Christine Tluliug of
Norfolk, Va.
August 1. Tuesday Assembly lecture by
Ir. V. II. Ilhicfc. president of Mis
souri Valley College.
August 1. Tuesday Start of the ltoone
County Pair.
Aiisust 4. I'rlday Close of the Summer
Session.
August 4. l"rld.iv Close of ltoone County
Fair.
August is, Kriilav Hoblnson's Circus.
September 14. l.'i. 10, Thursday, Friday
and Saturday Entrance examinations.
TAKES PART OF TEN
PERSONSIN A PLAY
Mrs. Lulu Tyler Gates Is
Whole Cast at Night
Chautauqua Program.
HERE ONCE BEFORE
"Daddy Long-Legs" Chosen
by Audience Alpine
Yodlers Entertain.
R. W, JONES WILL BE
THE WEATHER
l'or Columbia and Vicinity: Fair to
iitelit and Friday, somewhat warmer Frl-
'lay. I
For .Missouri: Fair tonight and Friday;1
somewhat warmer Friday. '
City Editor of the Columbia
Tribune Goes to Univer
sity of South Dakota.
IS GRADUATE OF M. U.
Weather Condition.
Tlifiv were soattertil showers ami thun
iVrtoniiM In the Plains ami Mississippi
Vsilley. hut, save a local fall of i!,M Inches
nt Oklahoma City, they were not general
or heavy enough to break the prevailing
1 drought in the principal train states.
' The heat wave, however, is temporarily
I broken In the Missouri Valley.
OVER TWAMILIES
War Correspondent Says That
Dependents of Troopers
Are Not Cared For.
superintendent of schools, will hae charge
of the distribution of these tickets.
W. II. Thomson is president of the
fair; J. L. Lynes, vice-president; R.
L. (Hob) Hill, secretary and L. D.
Shobe, treasurer.
TONIGHT, S I. M.
Holds A.B. and LL.B. De
grees Will Take Up New
Work September 1.
Robert William ("Bob") Jones, city
disturbance still is off the; 1 MiiJN Sfc-JN I HOME
co.iI, apparent! moving: t
The Atlantic
North Cnrolln;
north.
Fair weather, with about normal tem
Iwraturcs Is Indicated for Columbia durlui:
the next day or two.
OJibway Indian Players. "Hiawatha." j editor tof the Columbia Daily Tribune,
I will leave here September 1 to be-
ineii merely come professor of journalism at the j
FOR EFFICIENT SCHOOL
"All the world's a state,
"And all the men ami
"They h-iveS" their exits and their en-' University of South Dakota at Ver-,
trancet; . I million. i
"And one man In his time plays many, ..,.,,.,
,Mrts Journalism at South Dakota is a
Mis act- 'ik-Iiib seen ages." j department of the College of Arts and '
Thus spake Shakespeare, but Mrs. Science. Mr. Jones will have charge j
Lulu Tyler Gates, the well-known of this department and will teach two I
monologist. went him one better and classes, one in news and the other in '
acted the life of ten persons, when she , business management. He succeeds '
interpreted "Daddy Ixmg-Legs" on the I'rof. A. II. Urace, who has gone to
Local Ilata.
The highest temierature In Columbia
vesterdav was Id, and the lowest last
night was 71: irei'liitation, .(Ml; relative
humidity 'J p. in. esterday. 4.1 per cent.
A year ago yesterday the highest tem
lcrnture was M, and the lowest OS. pre
cipitate US.
General Funston Will Re
lease Others Who Have
Duties Behind Them.
The
Sun rose today,
'Sll p. in.
Moon rises jotSfi
Almanac.
I SKI a. in.
Sun sets.
By WILLIAM G. SHEPHERD
(I'liiteil Tress Staff Correspondent)
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 20. Not
one soldier that I rubbed elbows with
in all the armies of Europe in the last
two years ever worried as some of
j these American soldiers along the
edge of .Mexico.
These Americans I refer to are wor
thing about their families back home.
jThey don't know whether their wives
Columbia Chautauqua stage last night , France to drive a Ked Cross amlm-; i,i- , q. rmmnir ,-, and children have enough to cat. Such
1 1 111UUU Uiuit vwuij'uiij "
GETS BOOK CONTRACT!
About His Work.
received his A. H. degree ;
Dr. Georire Melcher Tells, to a large and appreciative audience. , lance.
" ' . . . V. f T...
- - - 'iwt t-tiiH. nnnmru irm i n -i ti iiriiii:in . ii i .iiii c
Cnlnmhin Business Men ...--" -. "- .:..". "11 . r."
v. ....,.., ;-i ti.oV-.. i.iintf ifh rk nftflf mnn v i irnrn i no . mvorsirv in nnn hie i .
,.., Jt.uo., ww . , - .. . (
unpleasant vicissitudes at a charitable ' II. degree in 1913. While attending j
the University he won three prizes: i
Supply $200,000 Worth
to State.
Dr. George Melcher, head or the Bu
reau of Efficiency and Research in the
Kansas City schools, talked to the bus
iness men of Columbia at the Commer
cial Club luncheon today on "The New
.Movement in Education."
Doctor Melcher began his address by
saying that now the tendency of busi
ness is to reduce tilings to facts. Why
not so with schools?
" 'What does it cost?' is the first
institution, was sent to college by one ' the University he won three prizes: ( The Missouri Store Company re-
of the wealthy trustees. Jervis Pendle- 1 the St. Louis Post-Dispatch prize in i ceired word from the State Depart-
ton. Judy, as she was called, was 11906, the William J. Bryan political
under the misapprehension that her j science prize in 1913 and the Karnes
benefactor was some unknown person. I legal ethics prize in 191o. In 1907 he
question of the business man." said him by letters to him as "Daddy Long
Doctor Melcher. "It is becoming the j Legs" and by visiting her. He pro
question of the school man. In Kansas j posed to her. but she waited to ac
City two like schools showed a great I cept after she would visit her bene-
whom she named "Daddy Long-Legs."
Judy, being sent to college to become
an author, had to write frequent let
ters to her benefactor, but she never
received a reply. This situation
placed Mr. Pendleton in an advanta
geous position to tint her thoughts of j of the Missouri Oven, a monthly maga
zine. When the Asterisk Literary So-
ment of Education at Jefferson City to
day that it had been awarded the state
library contract for the next two years.
The contract amounts to about $200,
000. There was one other bidder, A. C.
McClurg and Company of Chicago. The
difference in the cost per pupil for
heating, one r0 cents, the other $1.9S.
factor. To her surprise she found
"Daddy Iong-Ieg.s" to be the one she
The efficiency system cut down this ex- J loved. To intensify the complications,
tra cost. Manual training costs four the other characters, some of Mr. Pen
times as much as arithmetic: domestic dleton's relatives, and a rival suitor
science two and one-half times as and some children are also In the play,
much as geography. Knowing these
costs determines the policy of the
school board.
"Columbia has seven grades in the
ward schools; other cities have eight.
The average pupil in Columbia makes
the seven grades in seven and four-
tenths years; in the other schools it
won a fellowship in economics to
Chicago University, but did not take
advantage of the offer.
Mr. Jones was also active in student I McClurg company has had the con-
affairs. He was editor of the Savitar tract for the last nine years. This is
in 1905 and in 1913 business manager j the first time the contract was ever
awarded to a Missouri firm. Howard
A. Gass. state superintendent of
ciety was organized at the University, i schools, is chairman of the committee
to consist of a limited number of stu- , that made the award.
dents who showed literary ability, he The contract calls for the supplying
was chosen as a member. He is also of all the library books used in all
a member of the QEBH, an honorary high schools and rural schools In
senior society, Sigma Delta Chi, an , Missouri.
honorary journalism fraternity. Delta ' R. E. Lucas, manager of the Missouri
Sigma Rho. an honorary debating fra- jstore, said this afternoon that this con-
ternity, and Phi Delta Phi. an honor- i tract meant a gTeat deal for Columbia,
Audience ('hoses Own Play. ! ary law fraternity. for It means that all of the thousands
Since a chautauqua is for the enter- j Mr. Jones started to work on the of books the contract calls for will be
talnment of the people in the town, I Tribune in 1907 and has worked on ! distributed from Columbia instead of
a deplorable situation could not pos-
slbly exist in any European army, for
the government cares for the families
of the soldiers.
The Mexican government does it.
and we don't. I have talked with thou
sands of soldiers with six different
armies in Europe. I talked today with
my first soldier of the new American
army. I talked to Europeans In ar
tillery pits, trenches and dug-outs,
but today I talked with the American
in a jitney-bus going from San An-
tiie paper until the present time, with 'from Chicago, and that it simply was
Mrs. nates said that she gives the au
dience an opportunity to select the
reading. This year Mrs. Gates is pre
senting a repertoire of six entertain
ments: "The Grand Army Man," "The i lias also corresponded for the St. Ixiuis i
takes the pupil an average of eight or I Dawn of a Tomorrow." "The Melting ' Globe-Democrat since 190S, for the HECO.MES 1 CHAUFFEUR
more. Columbia saves then not only a Potr The Fortune Hunter. "Polly Kansas City Journal since 1910 and for
year's cost of education but a year's of the Circus" and "Daddy Ioing-Ixvgs." I the Associated Press since 191.".. He,I,(.nis Hilgvdick Buys Motor Car
time to the pupil. A study in efficiency To the Columbia audience last night, j has also worked for the St. Louis Post-
i
the exception of two years, from Sep- another step toward making Columbia
tember, 1911. to September, 1918. the educational headquarters of the
While working on the Tribune, he state.
AT 72
makes this possible."
In closing Doctor Melcher said that
the school budget for this city was
$10,000; 1 per cent of this is $100. A
bureau of efficiency could be placed in
Columbia schools for this 1 per cent
and would save the city from 10 to 25
per cent in cost of education.
Before the address by Doctor Melch
er a letter was read from E. 15. Cau
tliorn, former principal of the Colum
bia High School, thanking the Com
mercial Club for the letter introducing
and recommending him to the business
men of Dallas. Tex.
Thanks were tendered to the citizens
of Columbia for their assistance in en
tertaining the Summer Session stud
ents last Thursday and to the farmers
some of whom drove ten miles to lend
the use of their cars to the entertain
ment committee.
250 AT COOK'S PASTURE KAItHEl'L'E
.Miiny I'oliimlilaiis Present to Hear
Candidates ami Eat Dinner.
Probably more Columbians attended
the speaking and barbecue today at
Cook's Pasture, five miles west of Co
lumbia, just off the Koclieport gravel,
than will be present at any of the
subsequent political meetings, other
than the last night of the campaign,
when all the candidates will speak in
Columbia. About 250 persons at
tended. Automobiles passed and repassed
each other, the outgoing ones crowded
and those returning empty, for many!
cars made several trips during the
day. While the majority of the aud-
j ience went in private cars, the taxi-
After One Demonstration.
she offered a selection from the last Dispatch and the Trinidad. (Colo.) j "They never get too old to become a
three. When she mentioned "Daddy , Advertiser. I chauffeur," says E. C. Clinkscales.
I-ong-Legs." it was evident that the' Mr. Jones married Miss Alice Tyler j -My opinion on this matter was con
audience wanted to hear it. of St. Louis on October 2. 1909. They I firmed yesterday."
Mrs. Gates told a Missotirian report- have two children. jir clinkscales sold a Ford car to
er this morning that the lines of the I IjCwis Hilgedick of Hartsburg, who is
play which she recited last night she j pr'S (JOIXfi TO HE HOT ACAIX 72 vears old. When the old man was
memorized while attending only four J ,asked if he was considering buying a
performances of the play at Chicago. Local Weather Hureati Looks for Ire- jcar his ansWer was no, that he would
-"' "" "" " " "- """ "' "" ; ......i.ii.iu i.uiuuuii, oe UIlabic to drive it. Hut he was
play unless one buys the rights. ; The cooIer wcather ls not dlle to the i placed in the car, and after a few prc-
Mrs. Gates was in Columbia the last ' rain, according to George Reeder, di- liminarv instructions he was soon
time about ten years ago. She was rcctor of the local weather bureau, but lstccrinB the machine around the
here with a group of musicians, and , is ratner due to a hlBh.pressllre m l,)Iock t0 his own satisfaction.
.smu . .uLsmMiinins reaumgs ai COming from the Northwest. This will
the University Auditorium.
.i as a i-oia winter evening wnen wiil be a considerable rise in tempera-
our company entertained at the Uni- I tre and by Friday It will probably be
as hot as ever.
When he returned to the garage he
soon pass over, and tomorrow there Vas so well pleased with his experi
ence as a chauffeur that he immedl-
H.ivls .in,! IN.rtpr .Miti-ln-11: Mwl Imr
W II Tliom-oii nml A. . Sixth-it: liar-ih-ss
i,,r- .1. II. Clcnn ami A. J. Il.i:
iiiiiI.-s. l.-i,-k anil JeiinHs IT. T. II. Mur
ray an, I i; N Akeman: oonovsslmii - It. .
Hill. I'nrtiT Mltclicll anil J, M. INtf":
erotiniN W It. Nowell. Jr.: draft lior
J L I.vni-1 anil .in i:-te: rattle J. M.
INtf". Imiss !. N. A Iceman: sin-op I.. I).
Sliolx.. iMinltrv- .1 M. Stone anil Ml
KllraWtli IliMlse: art li.ill -Ml Sarah
II.ilI. cr.-iln-. grasses. frnlt anil veset.i
Me sIim- Itaiimmrtiier: olilef marshal
l'.i-rt Sapp. sheriff: field mar-hal Kenlwn
.lac,.l,. rlns .marshal- V. AI. Tliom-i.n:
rilil.on tier K. II. Hall anil Ilrnnn Clenn:
stalls Civile Ilallew; tlrket ellinir T. .1.
Ilatton traek marshal 1. II. Itowland.
On Weilnes.l.iv. the seronil day r the
fair the m.inacement gives free ailml
.i.. .. ..,,.,-, ,.1,11.1 in n,ume County nniler
M wars .,1.1. Ceorce T. Porter, county i
versity Auditorium." she said. "Our
trunks were missent to Christian Col
lege, causing the performance to be
delayed for an hour. We got started,
at 9 o'clock, but the audience of boys
and girls was very patient."
Sonps of the Alps filven.
Jean Wormser's Alpine Yodlers also
entertained last night with their native
songs, accompanied by music played
on their native instruments.
The Yodlers yesterday afternoon
gave an entertainment of songs of the
Alps. Mr. Wormser explained yodel
ing. He said yodles were originally
mountain calls used by the people as
a method of communication between
the different mountain settlements, as
the air distance was small and the ac
tual way long and dangerous. They
came to be used later by lovers, and
as each pair wished to have a distinc
tive call there was soon a great num
ber and wide diversity of them. He
said their native musical ability led to
the development of these calls into
The showers have not been suffi
cient to break the .general drouth and
conditions in the principal grain states
are not much alleviated. The rain was
heaviest at St. IxjuIs and Oklahoma
City.
ately gave a check for the car. He
was last seen burning gasoline on his
way home.
Mr. Clinkscales also sold a Ford
car to George Long of Huntsville.
Ill MORE TICKETS SrBSCRIHED
Dr. (.'. I- Xojes Home From Camp.
Dr. Guy L. Noyes of the School of
Medicine will return today from Ne
vada, Mo., where he has been helping
examine militiamen. Doctor Noyes
was not compelled to -go with the
troops to Mexico. He is a lieutenant
in the Medical Reserve Corps of the
United States Army.
cab companies report a good business.
A big dinner was served by the peo- j attractive form rather than into the
pie of that community at 12 o'clock, ear-splitting sounds of the cowboy
Tomorrow the candidates will meet at I yells of America.
Centralia. , The native Swiss costumes worn br
the company and the evident enjoy
ment they took in their program con
tributed to the popularity of the enter
tainment. The accompaniment of their
native instruments, the zither and gui
tar, the use of a cowbell to announce
the numbers, and the sound of the for
eign tongue, or. as the leader express
ed it. "what words you cannot under
stand of," were distinctive features.
Chautauqua Hoard Will Make Another
Effort Tonlcht.
W. L. Nelson went on the chau
tauqua platform again last night, as
a representative of the Chautauqua
VILLA IS LOCATED ACAIX
CarrnnzMas Say Tliey Expect to Cap
ture the Itandit Soon.
Ity Tniteil I're.
MEXICO CITY, July 20. Early re
ports today from Chihuahua state say
Villa has once again been definitely lo
cated and that the Carranzista forces
have evers" expectation of capturing
Board, to ask those persons who did i him.
not pledge for next year's tickets to A messenger sent by the bandit
do so if they want a chautauqua next leader to seek medical aid was cap
year. tured by Carranzista cavalry and kill
Tuesday night. 219 tickets were t ed. The Carranzista commandant re-
pledged for. Last night, 114 more t ported today he expected to engage the
tickets were subscribed. I maln body of the Vlilistas at an early
Tonight will be the deciding one. date.
The audience will have another op- if the constitutionalist torces are
nortnniK- in exnress their wish for a successful in capturing or killing ilia.
chautauqua. If enough tickets will be " as the opinion here that this would
pledged..Columbia will have a chau-j mark the -beginning of the end of the
tauqua next year. ln,ernal troubles ln Melco-
I Jfexlcans Are Stanlnir.
lVator Conservation Still Xecessary. By United rrem.
Conservation or water Is still neces- j EI. PASO. Tex. July 20. Starvation
sarv, according to M. E. Fawks, super- . is causing the death of fifty Mexicans
Intendent of the Columbia water and , daily at Guanajuato, Mexico, accord
light denartmenL Some of the new ing to Americans arriving here today.
pumnlng machinery that has been or-. Hunger forced a Villista band to at-
tonio to the army position.
Xt Meant as Cruelty.
If the Germans knew the British
were treating the families of their
soldiers as we are treating ours, or
vice versa, the fact would be heralded
world-wide, as an indication of gov
ernmental cruelty, by the enemy.
It is not cruelty on our part. Only
oversight. And the lesson we have
learned has caused unhappincss and
embarrassment in many American
homes.
If an American correspondent
learned from a British soldier what
I learned today from Shepkowski. my
first American soldier, he would break
the censorship to get the story to the
world.
Shepkowski of Company 11. Second
Illinois Infantry, will soon be at the
steps of his own home, will kiss his
wife and children and say, "Well, I'm
home. I got a check from Uncle Sam
for $67.62."
Skepkowski was born in Poland, but
served in the militia six years, and
his term of enlistment expired to
day. Thousands Worry Oyer Families.
It was from this man I got my first
inkling that thousands of Americans
who were snatched suddenly from
their families in the little breeze of
war that struck Americans three
weeks ago are worrying about folks
back home and wondering whether
they arc getting food and other ne
cessities of life.
"Can a man be a good soldier and
do good work if he is wondering
whether his family has enough to
eat?" I asked General Funston.
The general leaned forward and
said earnestly. "Of course not."
"I permitted fourteen men to return
home yesterday because their depen
dents were suffering, and I have so
many requests for relief on like
grounds that it will prove necessary
to- release several thousands within
the next few weeks "
U. S. ASKS AIIOUT BLACKLIST
England Formally Requested for More
Information on Action.
Ily I'niteil Press.
WASHINGTON. July 20. The State
Department this afternoon formally
requested from the British embassy
further information regarding the
blacklisting of American firms. This
action was taken after the embassy's
notification that the published list of
the blacklisted firms was correct. The
department has not received the offi
cial list.
A- 111 U .l.tnnrJ ..nfll TllT
ucicu will I1UI uc s.lll,n: u"i .-
Until this machinery Is installed there
is danger of a shortage In the water
supply unless economy Is practiced.
tack a train north of Chihuahua, Tues
day, but the Carranzista guard drove
the bandits off, capturing eight and
killing several.
I'y I'niteil Press.
WASHINGTON, July 20. The possi
bility of a trade war with England over
her blacklist policy was deprecated by
many officials here today. They said
that the Bryan arbitration treaty
might prevent the United States taking
any retaliatory measures before a
year. By that time the necessity for
the blacklist very likely will have
ceased.
