cora
EEALD
ji fi: ta ii
if
VOLUME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. JULY 20, 1916.
NUMBER 29
NAM
XT
L
JOL
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
Prof. P. M. Dai-nall has been offered
and accepted the chair of English In
the University of Tennessee.
There are 18,219 voters registered
In Memphis for the August election.
This is several thousand short of the
registration In 1914.
The Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls
of Clarksville, held their annual en
campment on Reo river. They num
bered about fifty'.
Mrs. Ann Nlcke, Waverly, killed a
rattlesnake measuring four feet long
and seven inches around the middle
of its body.
The Manchester Times has an
nounced that it will publish an edition
Of the paper for Morrison, a thriving
railroad town, fourteen miles north of
Manchester. .
A modified quarantine against New
York and St. Louis and all places
where infantile paralysis is known to
exist has been ordered by the Men
yhifi Board of Health.
Knozville is shown to rank second
In the number of applicants for enlist-
ment in the navy, according to a dis
trict report Atlanta and Birmingham
lead the cities in the eouth.
The Knnxville Chamber of Com
merce decided not to make a bid for
the $20,000,000 government nitrate
plant but to unite their activity in the
Interest of securing it for Mussel
Shoals.
The Roane county court has appro
priated 125,000 for pike roads, giving
' 6,000 to each of the five districts,
which will complete the Dixie highway
or Memphls-to-Bristol highway, and
grade pikes throughout the county.
The Nashville, Chattanooga and St
Louis Railway Board of Directors in
session in Nashville, restored the semi
annual dividend of 3 per cent, the
dividend paid prior to the European
war.
Preliminary steps have been taken
in Gibson county for the organization
of a company of soldiers. Cards, the
signers of which express themselves
as willing to enlist, have been dls
tributed among the boys of Dyer and
Trenton.
The electric chair at the state prison
In Nashville was -used for the first
time when Julius Morgan, a negro,
convicted of criminal assault commit
ted near Dyersburg, was electrocuted
The negro confessed his guilt and met
death with composure.
Miss South, of Knoxville, gave sev
eral solo selections to the national
convention of 60,000 Elks convened in
Baltimore. Since her debut as an
operatic singer, she has won praise in
the East and Canada. Miss South is a
daughter of an Elk and her two uncles
and several cousins are Ejks.
"He was such a dear little fellow
that I loved him the moment I set
eyes on him," tearfully declared Miss
Bettle Bartlett of Chicago, after the
grand Jury at Memphis, on her testl
mony, had Indicted Sigmund Welner,
actor, on a charge of taking $4,000
worth of diamonds belonging to her.
After being in the water for twenty-
elgUt days and floating more than
twenty-four miles, during which time
It passed over the Caney Creek dam
and floated through a mountain gorge
fourteen miles In length, the body of
Miss Mabel Porter, of Ducktown, was
recovered.
Hundreds of Memphis people saw a
dirigible pass over Memphis, traveling
from southwest to northeast. It was
about 160 feet along with big car
underneath, carrying three passengers.
Several watched It through field
glasses. It was traveling very fast
at a height of 3000 feet.
Twenty-one men were arrested in
the vicinity of Sweetwater on federal
warrants charging violation of the
revenue laws. It is alleged the men
have been selling whiskey without
government licenses. This is said to
be the largest raid in the history of
the federal authorities at Knoxville
office. -
Magistrate W. A. Ray, of Brietol,
formerly for a number of years a reel
dent of Nashville, met in Bristol for
the first time since childhood, a sister
with whom he parted in Ashe county,
North Carolina, nearly sixty years ago.
He did not know whether she was
living, until she called him on the
telephone from a Bristol hotel. His
sister Is Mrs. Julia McConnell, wife of
a wealthy farmer at Warsaw, 111.
' Judge Sanford, of the United States
District court, Knoxville, has appointed
Oscar G. Erlcson receiver of the Ala
culsey Lumber Company in the case of
the Security Truet Company and
Charles O. Patch vs. the company. The
lumber company operates in both
Tenneseee and Georgia. Mr. Erlcson
already has been appointed receiver
for the company in Georgia. "
Indictments against several drug
stores in Memphis were Included In
the report of the grand Jury, which
returned forty-seven true bills, a
record number. This la said to be
the result of Attorney-General Hunter
Wilson and Mayor Asheroft'i campaign
to oust liquor violators. Fifty Injunc
tions against Memphis liquor places
will be issued, it is reported.
i Aboard the first freight train which
rolled Into Knoiville sixty-one years
, ago, was Chas. Baum, whose death
( occurred in that city. He was then a
carpenter sent to Knoxville by a
a Charleston contractor to help erect
the city's first roundhouse and depot.
The laborers from the Palmetto state
were transported with their tools by
cheaper means box cars.
The meeting of the Board of Pen
sion Examiners that was scheduled to
have been held this month at Nash
ville has been postponed until July 19
,on account of the absence of several
members of the board and the illness
of E. B. Sweeney, one of the members
who has been confined to his home
on account of illness.
Dr. H. E. Chrlstenberry, mayor of
Lonsdale, a town near Knoxville, has
announced, his intention to resign his
office, and will tender his formal resig
nation at the next meeting of the
Lonsdale council, to be held on Mon
lay, July 24. He charges his fellow
members with violating the platform
pledges on which they were elected,
and gives this as his reason for re-ligning.
One important fact not generally
known by the public Is that the medi
cal department of the Tennessee
national guard is the most efficient,
best equipped 'outfit of any eanltary
troop in the south. The. official re
tort of the last inspection of the med
ical department by an officer of the
regular army shows the Tenneseee
medical department to rank first
among all southern states. .
Judgment for $700,000 was given the
National Bank of Commerce againet
H. Clay Pierce, chairman of the board
of the Pierce Oil corporation in a de
cision by Judge Kinsey, In the Circuit
court at St. Louis, Mo. The case in
volved a controversy over possession
of the entire Issue of the stock of the
Nashville Terminal company, of Nash
ville, Tenn., the par value of which
is $1,000,000. The bank sued Pierce
for $1,626,000.
Towns and cities in various parts
of Tennessee were represented at the
huge meeting held in Nashville last
Saturday in the interest of securing
the federal government nitrate plant,
which is to cost $20,000,000, for Mussel
Shoals, on the Tennessee river, In
north Alabama. The meeting was
held in the House of Representatives
of the state capital building. The
movement aroused widespread inter
est and there are splendid indication
for securing the plant
Robert Lindsay and Ralph Wilson,
members of the Coal Creek patrol of
Boy Scouts, saved the life of Orlie
Plyley, aged 14, when he was seized
with cramps while swimming in a
creek. The scouts, hearing the frantio
screams of the boys along the creek,
ran to the rescue and succeeded in
pulling the boy out as he was going
under for the last time. Herolo
measures were necessary to restore
life to the lad and the scouts Induced
artificial respiration.
With his hands and feet tied wKh
bailing wire and hie feet tied across
the railroad track, Robert Ferrell, a
Coffee county farmer was run over by
the Sparta branch train on the N., C.
& St. L. railway just east of Summit
ville and both feet severed. Ferrell
states that he was met by an unknown
man and held up at the point of a shot
gun, after which his hands were tied
together with the bailing wire and his
feet fastened in the same manner
across the railroad track.
The Boy Scouts of Coal Creek are
sending out invitations to all of the
Boy Scouts of East Tennessee to Join
them in a Boy Scout encampment at
Coal Creek during the week of the
Anderson and Campbell county fair,
which will be held September 13-16.
The fair association has very kindly
agreed to furnish free place on their
OFFICERS TO HOLD THE REGU. I ISth. District Sam Ensor, Beecher
LAR AUGUST ELECTION
Thursday, August S, 1916
A COMMERCIAL CLUB
ntry. ' A meeting was held in the school-1
ina. uistrict uscar Lowe, Molton nouse Tuesday night for the purpose
Braswell. of oreanizine: a Commercial riinh
The following officers. ludee and L 18th: District Adolph Green, Frank Judge D. L. Lansden was elected
clerks are hereby appointed to serve, T m chairman and Prof. M T Carlisle sec
, . ... . . . . . . ' " I 19th District Tnhn rnrnnoll Q T rnfim ., V,. .n.. '
daTAuguTs 1916 .tZregr. madeanT commiUeeV appointed" at the usual hour a p.. Jufr
ular voting nrecinct in Teach of t' 20t-- strict-Mack Hunter, Nor- draft by-laws and soUcit members. & It1.6,' "Y. N Protem, in
-r. - " mo n ugTwn
Mt. View Lodge, No. 179 I O O F
twenty Civil districts of Putnam Coun
ty:
Before entering upon their duties
said officers, judges and clerks must
subscribe to the oath required by law:
First District Officer, M. V. Loftis,
Judges, W M Davis, Tice Robbins, G
S Watson. Clerks, L M Bulllngton,
Clay Barr. Registrars, James Wall,
man Maxwell.
This July 17, 1916.
L. F. STOCKTON,
AlAiUUD MOORE,
Another meeting will be held at the 51 5rl U.b a reasonably fair Fri
same place next Monday night at 8 attfndance. Quite a lot
o'clock, and every business man and r, i?eDbu?!lne!s waa disposed of.
citizen is urged to be present It is ' , , Brad'rd was reported still
a. v. FHILLIPS, expected to perfect the organization ' , xorK la not
Rnari nt Rwtinn Pnmmio at tht timo aomg well this week.
sioners for Putnam County. ! It is of utmost Importance to our ' ? k commltte on the 4th of July
citv that sl Btranir wnriHn rnm..wel,r,tl011 made a satisfactory re-
PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS - rial Plnh ho a.A TJ POrt Which
satisfactory re-
be organized. Properly f 1 Irr? was. adopted nd commit-
All the rural pubic schools in Put- conducted, it will be of great value !S:Ti,aie?- AU seemed well
I " Assistant Registrar, . MIL I i - . " - " pleased with the reportT Th. T Se
uurn smpiey. uate Keener. Uibrell ." ccyi muse Fuere uuuu. -- : """""'"- r9rv Bttori tt.pt v,i ki. v -----
Huddleston. " ' Ungs are being erected, will begin ty. There is practically no limit to Dtunce ud aVh th.?"1
Second District-Officer C M Stone.1 W M- Following 1B the assignment the benefits that may come from such ,7. f?? ?i !?e
Judges, W M Isom, Haskel Bohannon of teachers as made by the county an organization, uvery Dusiness and Z" p 'f1 "lJ "L" lo. lU9
E W Jackson Clerks I P Clark hoard of education. professional man should belong and p: sj remarkable show,
James Dearing ' '"N Flm District-Whitson's Chapel, do his part in building up the comma. J JJ Jh
Third District. Officer Aifroii Hart f. N. Billingsley. Salem. Leora Hud- ty. mJM Pv!88j!?.? ?r eno.uh .."?
w t.. " t,ICZ" ' , r"r- Hlpstnn Svpamnro RrvAo Prfflttl uiuPi,tu l me ena OI IMS
icll. u uucrn. i imiiinii iiiiii. i. . w ri 1 1 rf v.v. , vu-wv , v
eaker, H Brown. Clerks, Miller Wat. DU1iey. ompiey. iTee iiu, s,
STORY TELLER'S LEAGUE
term. It is hoped that all will get
Th fnllnwlno- nron, woo . I " Will D6
ri T.i n - l . ; K I 'hiahnlTn Smith PAnanll ri.tAi)
BUJ1, VT Hi trVUlUUKlOU. " . vuuounuoira, , "3 rw ao 6" arODDed It IS th hmthor that Arxn't
Fourth District nfflr-or i ss nhin H D McCulley. Kate Davis. iby the Story Teller's League durlne i'aL.L.I?,,".11
son. Judges, S T Cobb, Chess Clouseii stconJ District-Mt. Hermon. Emily the county Teachers Institute, which this early statement of the facts
u uuuauuuu. wciw), j jj ouar-, 1- 1 --, ; - :' me looge is in oetter condition than
brough, J R Carpenter. son. Bridge, Hilary Essex. Monday, July 3, at 2:30 p. m., story, for several years Lonuluon .."an
Fifth District Officer, A P Rober-1 3rd- District Macedonia, Ward Lit. by Mrs. Quimby Dyer. 1
son. Judges, George McCommick, te. Poplar Grove, Belle Rockwell. I Tuesday, July 4, holiday. A CONFERENCE OF WOMEN
Jesse Henry, Tom Officer. Clerks, W Brown'8 MI1L Whitley Flatt. Brum- Wednesday, July 6. 2:30 p. m., gen- -Th fnnwlno, ..., , fc,
M Henry, J H Miller loe- Melvine Huffines. - eral Ulk on Stories and Story Telling 'J? f thi Ll t U D 18 be'n?
Sixth Distrfctfflcer, H G Loftis. th. District Verble, J G Stephens. Mrs J. C. McDearman. Story, "The Z tiBS
Judges, S D Bilbrey, J W Wlllett WlFarley B Seminary, Ruth Kuykendall. Coming of the Klsg" Sheliah Officer. , tBf fn5!,PBtrict' and
H JernlKan Clerks W V Coooer 'Philadelphia, Josephine Rupp. Board Thursday, July 6, Place of Stories ' .S iVI i, f, C0.un; .
Billie Brewer. ' CPel " I Valley, Haskell Henry. Pleasant in Education-Dr. Walter S. McClaln.;to ?Z"flle AueuL eFit
Seventh District Officer A H Chaf ,Ridse. JD Scarbrough. Glade Creek. Story, by Dr. W. S. McClain Irnf2r3 thnfV FinU
fin : Judge? HC Dyefw L StowJS" g g Hutcheson. Johnson's Church, G Friday. July 7, at 2:30 p. m. stories SrtTconge siona tIStto?
SS.. C,erk8' W A D Blr,nDfli8?ricWalut Grove' J N I VoT i? rJ.S
Reading-Mrs. QuimoV DyerT 'conttouine S thrU." .
Tuesdav Julv 11 storv hv Rev n jont' unt" three p. m. Many
T rrftiff " prominent women will be present and
wl,. t,.i 19 Tin...- 4 'It is planned to make this a most de-
alrr H Ti'n m i.,U-- o-LiiT . u"tful and instructive day.
Stories to Tell Mrs. Rutledge Smith. ThA porpnt.iwhara' a..
Lindspv otn. District-'-walnut Grove, J N
j . i . .mi .
Eighth District Officer, A F Massa. i cio"" elc5fn "ya- Vfes'
.Tiiriro TVo pAD.nn trii, 'Alva Wright. Rocky Point. Oliver
Joe Cole. Clerks, Jesse Farley, Newtsf... t, x, t,v
IN&8I1 1 uiu aiou ivi. uiuuiciiuui ax am a uii.
Ninth TiiHtriPt nfflooi- rioK Smut. liPB. Mt. Pleasant, Ada Rockwell.
Judges, Barnle Burch. W W Jared, J ady, ;ove' fai7 Fho? Douglas
B Plunkett. Clerk, Fred AlcoraBy.ira"SdvJIf,?PeTJ?ke2dL t vr
ron Bartlett . ' 7th. District Double Springs, J M
Tenth District-Officer, Hop Mc- Phy- ?ak rove Consolidated. Beech-
Broom. Judges, Jesse Hutcheson, Sid 0"oc Tr
Bryant. MorgaA Stott. Clerks. Jim ,E fiJaue8- tlrt0W5;1atSfllFh;f nn
Bob Sadler. John Flatt. LT8tJ- if,tirlctTBald SfXi
Eleventh District-Officer. J J Sul-'sh. Boiling Springs, J W Hickey
lens. Judges, JH Maddux, Bob omSi: A ,?endelF."8 TiFa
Shanks, B Jared. Clerks, W H Bur- ?al,iOD 0z,on' Ila FostCT-
ton, Joslah Bartlett. is, Nannie Mayberry
Twelfth District-Officer, Solon I th. District-Buffalo Valley, H C
Young. Judges, Bracher Robinson, . CmanA,,58,8lf Sfrh. tv
W M Steakley, Bob Hugfces. Clerks, L 10th. MeWct Allen Ctai1Dona
Tom Holladay, C F McCaleb. ' I Boyd. Sad lev Calvin Flatt. New Sa.
Thirteenth tDistrtct Officer, L M ,lemJ4i' T
i j tj wj- ii ( 11th. District Hopewell, J. T. Rich.
bert Ashburn, Sam Carter. Clerks, ."tlJ!
P E Sadler, Lonie Jones.
.nary, Etmo Jared. Rock Spring, Gra.
Fourteenth District-Officer. W M T HVghe ,.Pe?tryi Solon ttwlch
Watson. Judges," J F Sehon, J P , "f""
Hicks, G W Ray. Clerks, J C Parrett,
B P Allison.
12th. District Vaden, Lola Hughes.
Jared, Sallie Morgan.
DfllanLTAaflkAiMi A nn,n l4.J A .
Thursday, July 13, Possibility for , n": . 1. """""2
Story Telling in Rural Schools-Prof. ctT . 'LZlVl
J. M. Hatfield
CLARK GREGORY
come awaits you. In order that ar-
rangementsmay be made for your en
tertainment while in Cookeville please
Wkrren. Judw ; S DWebb.' Charlie Medley, Etta Leftwlch. Carrt Chapel
Phillips. M M Owen. Clerks, G W , Benton Mct rt Htti P A
Norris, Lonie Phillips. L14t,h- j01810:-T t iTZV
ciI.v ni..i..nm t t t t , Copeland. Monterey. J P Romines,
lar. Judges, Mat Farley. Dillard Mas. I sah Mitchell. Meadow Creek, Le-
sa, Frank Moss. . Clerks, G M Dunavln i ,..t Jl. t , loeata
nu' .4 r 15th. District Forest Hill, Jessie
Seventeenth District Officer, Bassi""1- , "s', ' , u : tt a PPular ana accompnsnea young unlte and co-operate to the one great
Butler. Judges, B B Nichols, A L i,"" r"c : A u o o-i' iuu'' , . . end, cnua weuare ana patriotic cm-
I 13th. District Silver Point, I M
A wedding of . interest to many i ZZZ r?? ZL'ZrZZ
Cookeville citizens was that of Mr. Jon whartram'you win aTrive A spect
Ben iL Clark and Miss Alba Gregory ! ,a, rate will b'e glven Dy tne r
at Peoria Illinois, on June 28, MM. see central Railroad to those attend
After a trip to eastern points Mr. and ng
Mrs. Clark arrived In Cookeville last , with best wishes and hoping to
Saturday night on the shoBper and ; nave you wlth uS for a day rf mutuai
were met at the train by the band proflt and pleasure, I am
(of which Ben is a member) and oth- Yourg most cordlallyf
er friends. Mr. Clark has been with (Signed) Mrs. Rutledge Smith, -the
Jere Whitson Hardware Co. for Chairman of Fourth District of Ex
several years, having charge of the tension Department of Federated
wholesale department, and is a well Clubs."
known and popular young business i The Fourth rtri.t la nnt rmW nna
man. His bride is a daughter of Mr. of the iarge8t but most influential In
and Mrs. Marlon Gregory of Huron, ;tne Btate and this gathering wlirbe
I""""! n.v... a most representative one. ine coun.
many years ago. tjes embraced in this district are:
wi bbmi- Cumberland, Fentress, Jackson, Ma-
TYLJR brynt Icon, Morgan, Overton, Pickett, Put-"
Miss Fern Bryant and Mr. Carson nam Clay, , Rhea, Smith, Sumner,
Tyler, two popular young people of Trousdale and Wilson,
this city, were married Wednesday, Tne ODject of this conference is to
Elder W. L. Karnes officiating I bring into closer relationship the wo-
The bride is the eldest daughter of mfin nf the towns and rural communl.
Hon. and Mrs. Worth Bryant, and is ties of these counties so that all may
Smellage, Riley Brown. Clerks, W T
Thurman Owen. Post Oak, M S Hat
field.
The groom is an employ in the gov .'.pnshin
ernment internal revenue service ana
Anderson, J R Clayton.
Rodgers. Judges. John Vantrease, P v.. wt,i,.7 , . The Bloomington decoraUon on
Gibson. John Rodgers. Clerks, W D Cheter Patton. Myrtle MitcheU ur. and Mrs Tyler after a western I Ju, Fourtn wa8ne of lntert8t. We
Jackson, I E York. ' 17tb ,,?h fi riavton' brldal t0Ur' vl" re8de la thls clty ' had a nice march to the cemetery by
Nineteenth District-Officer, T M ina a BlJ Clayton. , sThool CHILDREN ! the veteran soldiers, both Gray and
Shirley. Judges, John Shirley, L S .t;-Ltnim.r, i v' pmf m t PhHIbIa ha finished Blue, and their sons and daughters
16th District Samaria, C K Flatt. ,iB a son of Deputy Collector W. H.I DECORATION AT BLOOMINGTON ,
Deck. John Bowington. Clerks, H .T Y NotTe ProSt " Frbnton Is- tag the cho EnwTf or Cce"- After memorial services of song and
Gragg. Aubrey Clark. 'v.0"! ! ,ni nrt Mnarbi 7K7 nersona of Prayer the writer conducted the deco.
Twentieth District Officer, Joe A m rr, nn, within "th mn.nL ration, the, graves being nicely cot-
trell rAlUe ScuoVtor Sallie' Biibrey. tion limits, an increase of 46 since
Mary Lou KIttrell. Zola Phillips. last year. Figuring the population at . ieteun? mem?:
20th District Baxter. W A Beatv. four times those of school age. the Qur' e "L, ,? Z ?
Mrs. Shank., Eddie Braswell. Eulah usual custom our little city now con- &alg8t wfofld '
ii in - u t ciA.cnn tain. OTir- a nnft nonniA w btp crow M- Stewart or ttoma, ionowea oy an
Nichols. Judges, J A Boyd, W L
Judd, J M Bradford. Clerks, Lawrence
Grace, I E Medley.
This July 17, 1916.
L. F. STOCKTON,
ALGOOD MOORE,
B.D.PHILLIPS.
Board of Election Commis
Maxwell. Ensor. R L Richardson, , talns over 3.000 people. We are grow. - J tZlZktet then a soni
EffleGentry; . ,.. lng. and will continue rto tow for orta" r tnSinV S1S
Colored Schools Cookeville, Geo. many years
X; r-3 iW. Drew. Algood. B F Hill. Silver
sioners for Putnam County. 5,. u.i, anPm
nnil cpnprftl handshakinsr. durinir
! which many tears were shed.'
county s s convention In the afternoon we heard several
The Putnam County Sunday School pretty songs by the Bloomington class
' tw o.DRi p- Turo Birdie me Putnam uounty unaay acnooi pien "8 w """'"'"6-" "
CLtRKS FOR THE 8PECIAL ELEC. irtW (k ieoSi Association met pursuant to its call.'led by Prof. York and Bol Gentry,
TION RELATIVE TO A CON8TITU. ' ElP , at Baxter, on the 15th, lnat Both the prayer by Rev. E. W. Stone and a
son. - viwv hl Rivperh dplivprpd bv Rev.
TIONAL CONVENTION TO BE HELD
ON THUR8DAY, AUGUST 3, 1916
I morning and afternoon sessions were very able speech delivered by Rev.
fairly well attended. Practically all Aionzo warns, urging me org&niza
the subjects were ably discussed, and tion of a post by the sons and daugh-
- FARMER'S RALLY
Tho Farmer' Union will have an lu" Duyj.. " 7 1 tt.-j o..o n m iaa
ISIntloa In horohv trtiron thot In nnm .. . Jl -r, i nl. l a great Qeai OI enmUSiasm WB maul- tci o ui J"'"!u -
pliance with Chapter 110 of the Public tRth rMstric of Putnam county. the.ie"r,l , ah a. uipimr im ramto
Acts of 1915, the proclamation of the Fjt Saturday in August, lrr DO MINGO
Sntatf oSAttaStot' 'C,Ck' R- m- PUWiC 18 aSfigSJStoi L. Richardson, ice I otto Puckett, brother of Miss Boda
opinion or tne Auorney uenerai or tne vlted. nBidnt- Rainh Wirt, secretarv: W. Pimirott of silver Point u with th
state in relation tnereto, ine ionow- Welcome address. Charley Kandoipn .,izzri' 7J;'.. nm r".' " tt a 7...
Response Henry J. Le mittee Rev. G. E. Pennington, Supt. Recently rushed to Santjo Domingo
How to Make an Ideal Community j M Hatfleld( j j Fleming, Rev, J, for the protection of the American
current re-
lng- Clerks are hereby appointed for
each of the twenty Civil Districts of
grounds and free admission to the Jtc- re88enGUInam; n,, m Farm 'A. Harris and Rev. Fount Smith. LegaUon there during the curre
fair to all the Boy Scouts who will ??"S2 Constitution. The Benefit Cooperation in Farm R L Rlchardson Sec. voit , against President Jimlnes.
pitch their tents on the fair grounds. lr pW.Hrm officer and ."SS, n, 1 i. I When insurrection breaks out any.
Already Boy ScouU are accepting th. Jud wU. alsojserve in holding this McCuney." n I Jesse Brow Springs has oZtnl vl Marines'
Irvitatlon. special election for the determination , community Development-D. C. lnvented and patented a railroad f,;!? 8;J fa rSl"
The Carroll County Farmers' Co- 01 wnetner or not a constitutional wniteaker. stock gate that will prove valuable :a;ednes is the motto of the Marine
s.Ues for this period total $38,720.76. .celved no ballots except those "For a Some Needed Legislation For the scarlng them away, or remaine up ,.8 Puckett enlisted in the Unit
At a business meeting a rebate of S I Convention;; and those "Against a Farmers and How to Obtain it H. and prevents them from passing. As ed Statef Marine Corps at its Lo
per cent was made to all Farmer .Convention. " . R. Shipley. . soon as the animal steps bff the plat- ti cal.. recruiting station on
Inion member, who were not stock-fSeParateP ,om the gate dr0ps back out of the Jg-ftg"
- - U V UllUUtVD
holders and a 16 per cent rebate to following are appointed as the
the . stockholders. The totals of the
rebates on trade amounted to f L
722.09.
Clerks for the special election:
1st. District A. B. Wirt, Norman
Bartlett
2nd. District-Cumby.
3rd. District S
Hyder,
J P Burgess, Milus
Bohannon, Byrt
The famous historical Boone tree,
orated on Boone's Creek, near John-
"n.CUy, was blown down during a
windstorm. The tree was split In
wain in falling, the words engraved
on it by the famous pioneer, D. Boone,
beinK sollt in half a a result, nf th
. Brewer,
8th,
tin
H D. McCULLEY, Pres.,
B. C. HUDDLESTON, Sec.
wav,
I The device is very simple and inex.
pensive and cannot fail to operate
GREAT FLOODS
Great floods visited narts of North
,We believe Mr. Brown has invented a.and south Carolina the first of the
successful stock gate, ana nope mat week, causing about 100 deaths ana
nlAdayl Qtinta tr wit crlSr TLfn rVi Inroraat
4th. District-G T Whiteaker, O D ?.'ZT!A tSZ
nuun nvru.
REVIVAL CLOSES
The revival that was conducted at he may make a fortune out of it. He property damages amounting to mll-
the Methodist church for three weeks, nas oeen snowing a mouei, uu iong oinouars.
by Rev. E. H. Yankee, of Knoxville, worxs to penecuon.
NEW BANK BUILDING
GREAT REVIVAL IN PROGRE8S
Rev. Will H. Freeman, of Mt. Juliet,
9th. District John Smith, T E Judd.
10th. District Tom Maddux, Bob
was uiaiiiicoivu luiuufiuuut uio cum c i - . m ,
.i it. i1 Tho Rarter Rsnlr A Trnot C.n haa Tenn. la assisting ReV. F. B. COX Ul a
.u.. - - With intense earnestness, making his oepun tne erection oi a new db.uk revivm n. i u "BY
Ja8n.1 c t a kt n x, Termons plain and exactly to the point building. It will be of brick, 44 x crowds are in attendance and a great
6th. District Sanford Neal, B P nfu" r n:.in- nn tt. When finished the hank will revival is in-progress. Mr. Freeman
Jliiric TV izi auuui Dial wuruoiuiia - " , .
. . . ,' land nrofessions. and several addit- have commodious and up to date is a well known Minister and reyival-
uismci-j r nppin, b u hicib. ion tn ti,- church Monterev News Quarters. 1st, of no small reputation, navius
. District-Ed Nowlin, Dug Mar- ,on9 to the church. Monterey New., qu - . experience in evangelistic
CARD OF THANK8 brick store building 40 x 80 feet. work. Both Mr. Cox and Mr. Free-
We desire to thank our friends for Baxter is a thriving and growing town man are newspaper men and practic-
thali- Vlnrinona Hurl no- tha olnlrnaaa arxA tho VI oral A nntaa with nlaoilIM al nplntpr and are tUITlinX thelt eX-
taining the words may be preserved if Scarlett. , and death of our dear little babe. each successive imnrovement made- nerience along this line to aid them
the party owning the tree will sell it. 11th. District S J Huddleston, Bill - Mr and Mrs. R L RAY I in their great work for the salvation
Previous to the tree blowing down the Medley. PREACHING AT SYCAMORE of souls.
local chapter was making preparations ! 12tn- District T a Jarea, xom revival At SALEM There will be preaching at syca-1 The meeting will continue over tne
to nnrrhaaA ft anil nrwiorro It Th lleauiunn. ! xibt. r. x. uu wm kviuiucuk a ro- more nuiiuui uiiubb umi ouuun; a it-i - B'OUnn Etunaay.
"uu Pre8erTe "e .. . n,Bfplpt V.Rfo Mitchell. W vHr.1 t Ralom M TH Hhnrrh f?mith nonn liiat ftfir th Riindnv Mnhnnl , '
tree has attracted attention through- m Wallace. , the second Sunday' In August. He will closes, or about 3 o'clock, by Rev. R..TO HOLD REVIVAL AT KELTONS-
out the country, and hundreds of peo
ple have visited it
on the tree were: "D. Boone cliled a
bar on tree in year 1760." The John
Sevier Chapter, D. A. R are devising
plans whereby the part of the tree con-
14th " Ttiatrfot S Tt TtiirVncr I N h aaaiaioA hv Vat Will R TPrsaman T Pro to- noatnr nf tho frtnlrPTlllA BUKU
Clouse. : ot Mt. Juliet, Tenn., and Rev. Elisha Methodist church. Everybody invited. I Rev. F. B. Cox will assist Rev J
15th. District J S Ford, Jesse Gil- Henry, (of the Salem congregation,! . R. Crawford in a revival at Keltone-
Ham. (who will have charge of tn singing. I "ht promotes cleanllnessT .burg beginning Aug. 1.
