' " Western (Carol
ia Democrat
VOL. XXIII. NO. 27
HENDERSONVILLE, N..C. TH 3SDAY,. JULY 20, 1916
PRICE FIVE CENTS
- i i ' .
FLOOD
piiinn
M BAT CAVE AND
NEt ROCK
LOSS OF EIGHT HUM LIVES
total of eight persons was the
toll of human life taken by the reeent
floods in the Hickory Nut Gap section
of Henderson and Rutherford coun
ties Three of these were at Fruit
land a small village about midway
wen Hendersonville and Bat Cave,
four were drowned at Bat Cave and
one at Chimney Rock. Two bodies
of unknown persons were seen going
down the river and it is thought they
Vere from McDowell county. This
information was brought into Hender
gonville bv Dr. L. B. Morse, one of the
owners of the Chimney Rock scenia
highway, who spent yeterday out
there inspecting the damage done by
the floods.
Isaac Conner, and Marie Freeman,
were drowned at Fruitland and a
seven-year-old son of Tilden Freeman
(Of the same place died as a result of
injuries sustained while trying to
reach safety.
Mrs. Edgar Huntley and two chil
dren and a Miss Hill were lost in the
fiood at Gat Cave, and M. B. Hall of
Green Hiii, X. C, was drowned while
trvin to itoss the river at Chimney
Kock. Hah was a workman on the
Chimney Rock road. The report that
two other v, o: knien on this road bSCf
est their it-s, was without founda
tion. Dr. Morse said people living in the
Hickory X .t Gap from Bat Cave and
Chimney Roel; on down irrto Ruthar
ford county -re completely paralized
a? a result of the disastrous flood
which sw't ihr'nih the ap Sunday.
He got as far as S. ireasman's by
comeyance and wv? toiccd to waik
tht rest of the :slance, back and
forth, a distance of about 20 miles, in
order to get to his property at Chim
ney Rock, goin over Sugar Loaf
mountain on the vay r f"
ine view from the cliff on Sugar
Loaf is beyond description. .The face
of the whole country is changed and
the devastation is staggering.
The bridges on Ro-l Broad river
at the entrance to the Chimney Rock
scenic highway are all gone, anjl every
island in the river at that place has
been completely washed away. The
new Chimney Rock highway stood the
attacks of the flood pretty weH and
with the exception of the loss of
HENDERSONVILLE CITIZENS
DiSPLAY OPTIISTIC -SPIRIT
The story 0f the flood of Sunday is
very Weii known by everybody and it
is unnecessary to eo into details.
Hendersonville, happily, was not so
iard hit by the heavy downfall" of wa
ter, and today is a beautiful spot un
touched by the flood, with plenty of
food, water and other necessities of
life. Visitors are being well cared
tor and tiiose in remote sections who
ere hard hit by the flood are being
succorded until they will have time
to reorganize and take stock of their
belongings.
Besides the regular road forces,
Jundreds of volunteers, including
many 0f our prominent citizens,, are
Bard at work opening up the various
highways radiating out of Hendersbn
"UJ, and rapid progress is being
made. while the county suffered
aUy from the l0gs of DridgeSM tnia
&b about the only damage done to
we roads and as fast as -bridges are
jang built, roads are being opened up
ior travel.
The spirit of a mass-meeting held in
can Jurt house Tuesday evening" on
J1! by the secretary of the local board
' was mo!3t optimistic, and it
J. spirit that wiH enable Hender-
1 r.I &1 reports that have been sent
l- me town was . not hurt and it
ail here still. Not a single loss of
fn;curred in Hendersonville and
TrT we are all thankful,
aloe m there were Persona living
abm Kud Creek wno were concerned
bpi homes, a number of them
J! flooded with water but nor,
Uh ashed away, and the -damage
tile Wfltfi J ...;! -k
in 1 Pificant- Some of the crops
but tt- om lands are a tot1 loss'
Peonl wiU not convenience the
ainin a!,a whole and the few sus
MthSv ""S can be cared for
Porfs nf outside aii '"t hand -ani
y the enornious loss of crops
i,Srperty in Henderson county,
fact! v fully 75 Per cent whfin the
Lls became known.
the hlrSrAhtrn RaUway was probably
Poratfn hlt of any dividual cor
'aflroa?' an one Persn high Up in
that T eircles expressed the opinion
thoL recent storms, including
one u 1 0ver the soutn Prior t0 the
aere, would put the railroad in
CAUSED THE
bridges and abutments and several
slides, is. not badly damaged.
- The Ashevilie-Charlotte highway be
tween Bat Cave and Chimney Rock is
entirely washed away and yesterday
it was impossible for a person to make
the trip between these places even on
horse back. Instead of just washing
the road in places, the water from the
river made a clean sweep of the road
bed. The Chimney Rock company will
put in a temporary bridge on their
highway across Rocky Broad river
conditioned upon the rebuilding of
Ashevilie-Charlotte highway from Bat
Cave to Chimney and the building of
a temporary bridge at Bat Cave. This
will be done to accommodate the tour
ists and others from Asheville and
Chimney Rock who wish to visit the
'Chimney." No prophecy can be
made as to the road below Chimney
Rock, as the Rutherford county offi
cials will have to be given time to
work out the situation to the best ad
vantage. A horse back trail is being estab
lished from Bat Cave to Chimney
Rock and a wire suspension bridge
will be built over the river at Bai
Cave. Persons in this section axe
running short of food and this is be
ing established to carry supplies from
S. Creasman's over to the stricken
section.'
The sand-clay road from Hender
sonville to Bat Cave stood the flood
remarkably, well, barring a few wash
outs and the loss of bridges the road
Will need little cr no repairing.
Jerome Freeman's house, Esmeralda
Inn and Mounain View Inn are still
standing. A big slide just back of
Mountain View precipitated dirt, mud
and rock3, against the rear of -the
house and the same thing "occurred at
the back of the garage. - -
There were about twenty slides in
all as counted from the top f Sugar
Loaf mountain. A -remarkable thing
about the slides is that they nearly all
occurred on the north side of the
mountains. This Is probably account
ed for by the thickness of vegetation,
the laurels and rhododendron which
grow luxuriantly on the south side of
the mountains, thus holding the soil
together, more compactly.
the hands of a receiver. But it is
hoped that it will not be that bad, and
that the company will emerge from
the flood damage on the side of finan
cial safety. Every available mr.n
south of Washington that the Southern
railway has is now- at work rapidly
clearing up the lines that were hit by.
the flood." and it Is expected that
trains will be operated over even the
hardest hit lines within thirty days
and train service out of Henderson
ville to Spartanburg it is thought will
be established by Saturday or Sun
day, though passengers may have to
be transferred afcMelrose.
It is up to our people to make the
best of the situation and we are con
fident the flood will have no serious
effects upon our town.-
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY CARS
STRANDED IN GREENVILLE.
Reports that 150 automobiles bound
for the mountains were stranded in
Greenville, S. C.. by the flood was ver
ified over the telephone by P. F. Fat
ton, county supervisor of roads. Miss
Mitchell who conducts - a bureau of
information at the passenger depot,
has wired these people to come on to
Hendersonville as soon as the road
is opened and that we were able to
take care of any number of tourists.
. .
Dmm GIRL OF PORTO CL
Manager Lester of the Strand
Theatre states positively that Mme.
Pavlowa will be seen at the Strand
tomorrow in the great picture. fThe
Dumb Girl of Portici." In the larg
display ad in. this issu through an
oversight the name of the theatre
p'aying this attraction here was not
given. : . . '
JORDAN MILL TO BE w
RUNNING WITHIN A MONTH.
Mr. W. C. Jordan- states that his
flour- mill will be running Inside of
a month and that the damages were
not. so bad as reported. "
M 1 Shlpmaiv, commissioner of
labor and printing, is attending
a meeting of the; state commissioner
in Buffalo, N. Y. " :
JUDGE EIltlERS
EDITORIALS
hli
TUESOl
Judge H. G. Ewart of Henderson- 4ead level, and covering hundreds of
ville, wrote the following letter to the . ares. Thls valley was already flood
Asheville Citizen, replying to. their ed- y a rain that had almost contin
itorial relative to the building of arti-1 u?J1y iallen for six Or seven days. It
ficial lakes in Western North Carq--'Jst.ten miles to the mouth of Mud
ina. . - j Creek, and but little fall from Hender-
The letter follows: ' " : , sdnville to the French Broad. The
Editor Citizen: .3am at Kanuga did not give way till
In. your special edition 17th .insti ' 10:15 Sunday morning and it was an
ytrtr editorially say: . , -hdur before its waters reached Hen-
"If. as reported, the bursting of the fleirsonvilie' 8 1-2 hours after Osceola
dams forming Osceola Kahuga and Wfts emPtied. The waters from both
Highland Jakes in Henderson county tbese lakes flow -into the Frencn
was responsible for the terrible flood , Bfoad and not into the Swannanoa
that devastated Biltmore and the low- riyer-as you seem' to. imagine. You
er section of Asheville yesterday, the might as wel1 conclude that the terri
legislators of North Carolina, at the ' disaster on the Broad river at
next meeting of the general assembly,' Bat r Cave was attributable to the
should take prompt action to prevent breaking of the dams at Osceola and
the building of artificial lalces in the 'Kaauga as to charge the losses of
mountain section of the state. "life" and property at Biltmore to the
"Had it not been for the bursting : breaking of these dams. You appear
of these three dams yesterday, five ' to siSnt f the fact that at 2 a. m.
people who are now dead may have" Sunday, the waters of the Swannanoa
been alive and millions of dollars of wre two feet over tne floors of th'j
property damage would havje been wdod-working plant at Azalea,, that in
averted, as the rains of the past few-Jour Sunday's edition you reported
days, even when augmented by the the' French Broad as being at its
cloudburst of yesterday, would not highest point in nearly thirty years,
have been sufficient to raise the wa- anfl ' torrential rains were still
ters to the danger point. facing. As a matter of fact every life
And again in your edition of 18th lost, and every dollar of damage done,
inst, you say: . . naa oeen aone Deiore eitner or tne
"Returning "to the discussion of the am-. referred to had broke. Owing
destruction of lake dams, which is to the immense acreage of land cov
largely responsible for the disastrous er y water in the Mud Creek val
flood which swept this section The leyfc'and the almost imperceptible fall
Citizen maintains that-future legisla- f-om Henderson ville. to the mouth of
tion should forbid the construction of Mh? Creek the waters necessarily had
artificial lakes in the mountain sec- Wtle momentum, and when the reach
tions of this state unless such lakes ed. the French Broad had little more
should be constructed understate su- effect in that raging stream than the
pervision. We never learn a lesson rertiirg of a pebble, in the Gulf of
until it is driven home to us with irre- Mexico, v Hendersonville was directly
sistible force, and now we are con- in,he path of these lakes, and bar
vinced that-had "the nrecaution whichr'Uxedloss;f.,opne - or.two;mall
we now urge been exercised in th-hridges( and the destruction of grow
past, the lamentable story of yester- ing crops on the lands in the corpor
day would not have been written, ate limits on Mud Creek not a life wa3
Perhaps we should not be so extreme lost, or a dollar's worth of property
as to say that the construction of all destroyed! Your statement that two
artificial lakes - should be barred in lives were, lost in Hendersonville by
the future, but we insist that the state the flood is erroneous. Both of these
of North Carolina should stand back parties were drowned near Edney
of every artificial lake to be laid out ville, nearly twelve miles from here,
in the future. The broken dams of The flood disastrous as it has been
Lake Kanuga and Lake Osceola tell in other sections of the country has
their own story, and while under the riot affeCJtef Hendersonville n he
circumstances it is hard to place the slightest particular. Its light, water
responsibility, if -It can be placed
at all, there is no doubt in our minds
should stand even greater tests than
the onrushing waters of Sunday pre
sented." While I fully agree with you in the
general proposition that lakes cover
ing a considerable "acreage, and built
solely for speculative or pleasure pur
pose should be under the immediate
supervision of competent engineers
designated by the State, I must be al
lowed in common with hundreds of
the citizens of Hendersonville to ex
press amazement and surprise at the
publications made above. The dam
at Osceola, just outside the limits of
this town, a small lake covering per
haps ten acres of ground gave way at
2 a. m. Sunday. Below the dam
stretches Mud Creek valley, almost a
FOUR DEATHS REPORTED
FR01 TRiWLll COUNTY
Added to the deaths reported from
Brevard Is tha tof Jon Heath, Jr
and the fatal injury of JErs. John
Heath. Sr f the same place.
Brevard, July 18. By Telephone
Caldwell Sentelle, his wife and daugh
ter were killed here by a land slide
in which it was thought five more had
been killed. They were dug out of the
mountain and sustained many inju
ries They had been burled alive in
the heaping refuge of the mountain
side. The fatalities occurred about 6
m)ii. n7Aot of Hrevard.
The flood was severe in causing
mg
m- L
many, landslides througnout tne coun
ty. Numbers nave Been rcyiwu
ROAD TO ASHEVILLE
THE FIRST OPENED.
Qulk - Work Enabled Cars to . o
Through to AsheTlUe Tuesday .
Afternoon. '
The highway from Hendersonville
to Asheville was the first one opened
for through traffic out of 'Henderson
ville. By hard work the road was
opened Tuesday afternoon and Post
master Bryson and 3. J., Rhodes of
Hendersonville, were the first to go
through. ' They brought back with
them a quantity of mail.-- -j
Following these gentlemen numer
ous cars made the trip and found the
1IAYID
lilEILE CITIZEN
and ice supply has been Intact and it
has promptly gone to the relief of the
sufferers of its own County.
The monetary loss is rapidly fall
ing from the original estimates, and
with all our losses, we hope to pull
through and be as cheerful as possi
ble, but we do most respectfully pro
test against the utterly unfounded
charge that the breaking of two dams
across (2) small lakes caused the ter
ribje loss of life and -property at
Blltmore-Asheville. Bat Cave, Bre
vard and other points.
It was the great forces of nature
pitted against the feeble work of man
that caused what will go down in the
local history of Western North Caro
lina as the great flood of 1916.
Very sincerely,
H. G. EWART.
ready and it is feared, that more
deaths will be. heard from later. ,
The waters of the French Broad
river rose to the first floor of the
Deaver Patton store at Pisgah For
est. . Enormous damages have been
sustained by the . various lumber con
cerns along the Toxa way division of
the Southern railway.
, Owing to the slides it Is said that
the entire course of the river has been
changed : from where it has ver run
before. : '
Brevard has been completely cut off
since the storm began until Tuesday
morning when the lines were com
pleted. : - -Ji ",.
There had been nctning neaxa xrvm
Lake Toxaway Tuesday . morning : in
Brevard. V . , . . - -
road in splendid condition most of the
way. .A wide detour has. to be made
jviarthe Howard Gap road from Naples
to Fletcher.yon account of a washout
oa the regular road, but this caused
slight inconvenience. -
Other roads out from ; Henderson
ville are being rapidly opened up and
several days more work will giv?
many miles of highway in go6d con
dition for use of the citizens and vis
itors. : i ,' ,- , -
Road conditions in the county are
not near so bad as was first reported,
and barring a fw washouts and the
loss of bridges, they .are as good as
ever. : ; ' "A":
BOOSTER iiAGEIi "DR01R
ii VOTES" IS DEtUGE Fii
COWTESTAKTS
ALL CASH COUPONS GIVEN
BY BOOSTER HOUSES NOW
BEAR. TIME LIMIT. BOOST
ERS NOTIFIED TO LOOKOUT
FOR DATES AND NOT TURN IN
COUPONS TOO LATE.
In face of the intense excitement
over the distrous floods, the oflice of
the Booster Manager wa3 a very busy
spot on Monday and Tuesday, the last
two days in which coupons, etc.,
issued before 15thj, could be turned in
for voting certificates. Had out-of-town
Contestants-been able to get in
with their coupons, receipts arfofDr
derg. for trade books on these days
it would mave taken half dozen peo
ple busy counting and issuing regular
voting certificates. All Booster Can-,
didates, who could possibly get here,
turned in everything they had up to
and including the 15th, All in Dis
trict No. 1 were able to report on
-schedule time but only one or two
Contestants in District No. J2 could
make it, hence under the extraordi-
Jnary circumstances the Booster Man
ager was compelled to extend .the time
limit to many of the Boosters in No.
2 until it is possible for them to get
to town. While the Manager; com
municated wit;h all candidates he
could over the phone in District No. 2.
I advising that th time would "be ex
i tended . to all who could not report,
I there "are- several he could not reach
Vand requests-, that we state for the
.bemefit of such contestants, that-: all.
-'who were unable' to get In pri; account.
. possible time with coupons, receipts,
;etc secured up to and thru iuly 15th
and same will bs honored. It is abso-
lutely essential to turn this matter in
Just as soon as you can reach the city.
All Contestants heard from this
week are putting on extra steam on
account of Special Prize Period which
started Monday and is to continue
three weeks. Nearly $100 in special
OEIEOfJlLE SHIES
THROUGH A CIRCLE OF GLOOfJi
(By Old Hurry graph.)
Hendersonville shines through the
encircled flood gloom like a tiara,
gemed with all the costliest jewels of
earth. Hendersonville is not only
beautiful in scenery, but is also beau
tiful in golden deeds, and works that
make life worth living and add cheer
and comfort in a season of calamity,
when stout hearts quail and sink in
despondency and hope lies flickering
in the valleys. From mountain peaks
radiate the beams of HendersonvilleV
sunshine of encouragement; her
Spartan courage; and the spirit of her
Christian brotherly love. It all shines
as the stars through the curtains of
night. -
The mayor of Hendersonville, in
overalls, working on a bridge with
others of his fellow, citteens, to open
up the highways of this county;
sturdy, business men leaving their
business.' and volunteering to work on
the roads and doing it; others send
ing hands and teams; all contributing
to the necessities of those who had
all of their worldly goods swept away;
the county officials, .and the town peo
ple sending out loads of provisions to
the destitute of Bat cave, wnere tne
flood damages seem to have been the
wort in the county. The . spirit of a
public meeting, held in the conrt
house Tuesday evening,, attended by a
large audience of both men and wo
men and tourists, was peculilarly
beautiful in the sentiments expressed,
and the desire to aid their fellow
sufferers, and open Henderson coun
ty to easy travel in all directions.
The determination manifested on this
occasion -will accomplish the ends de
sired. The heart of Hendersonville
Is throbbing and pulsing with human
sympathy, hope, " cheer and help for
the unfortunate, and the r determina
tion, to help herself first, Fortunate
in escaping . any serious damage, and
the ravages of the flood. Henderson
ville is in her normal condition for en
tertaining visitors, and the, large number-
here now :: are In hearty accord
with the residents. Tourists, last
evening,- desired to contribute , thcSr
aid the needs of the hour; Asheville
generously offered to - co-operate with
Hendersonville in relief to Bat Cave
sufferers ; HendersonvilJ.e appreciated
all of the offers but" in her Srarta
manliness, said "we believe in doing
our best for; our own before we ac
POURS
OFFICE
prizes ar being offered by the Boos-
ir Mouses, as announced last week,
and" the candidates are. going after
these with a vim while racing for the
Automobiles and $100 Diamond Rings
which are to be given away at. the end
of the main contest August 26th.
Subscriptions are begining to pour
into the Hustler at a rapid clip all
after one of those $15 watches. ' .'he
list of Booster Contestants, as given
below, has not increased in number
since last weeki one or two have dis
continued the race in-order to sup
port some other Booster. .
Booster Contestants are now as fol
lows:. ;
DISTRICT NO. 1.
. M. Lance Read. -
'Pete Gianakos, . j
Miss Catherine Brown, :
Miss Hazel Russ, j
Miss Ruth Cowart, ?
Dorothy Waldorp,
Mrs. A. M. Gover, '
"Alf" Glazener,
Dr. E. P. Mallctt,
Mrs. L. M. Dodameade,
Mrs. M. A. Brownj,
Reginal Young,
Chief Otis Powers, ' -
i
V
I
J
t
Miss Bessie Aiken, ,
R. J, Alderman.
Hortense Guice,; f
" DISTRICT NO. 2.
Miss Laura Brown . Laurel Park
Miss -Natalie Jones LFlat Rock
Miss-Ellie Pace .E. Flat Rock
Miss : Sallie Kate Edney,. . Dana
Miss Sue - Allen! . Mills . River
Miso Annie HyderRpute 1"
liss Lexih'e DavenportHorse Shoe"
Miss Sallie Mae Sumner, Indian C. Pk
Mrs. . W? W. : Sims-Hillgirt
Thomas LowndesFlat Rock
Miss Jennie Garrent Shaws Creek Road
Jos. Brittain -Fletcher
D. T. Freemanl .Bat Cave.
Mr. Gresham " . Kanuga
E. J. Anders Route 0
W. J. Bishop : Saconon.
William Penny. ..
cept outside aid. "Such is Hender
sonville's spirit to hlp herself; and
she is going to do it, and is doing it
now. .
With praises -and thanksgiving for
the happy condition prevailing in Hen
dersonville during the flood, and that
now exists, the hearts of this people
are open to every, generous impulse,
and is lovely in its' expression. Three
passenger trains were marooned here
for four days. Mr. Howell Cobb, pro
prietor of the Carolina ..Terrace, ap
preciating the cramped condition of
the 260 passengers on board, extend
ed an invitation to the Pullman con
ductors to bring the passengers up to
Carolina Terraco, for entertainment,
and free access to the hotel and beau
tiful grounds for recreation with the
encouraging and cheering greeting.
"We have more heart than -we have
hotel: ' Bring up the passengers and
feel the place belongs to you, and I
shall feel real peasure in having you."
Quite a number visited Caroiha Ter
race. .
This is the spirit of Hendersonville;
and Henderson county,, today where "
the tourists are given the glad wel
come, with al lthe accommodations
today tttey would have had before the
floods. .
AUTO HAIL ROUTE TO BE :
ESTABLISHED FEOJI ASHETILLE
Postmaster S. T. Bryson has re
ceived a telegram from Washington
at the -Postoffice department telling
him ; to - receive- bids, for the transpor
tation of mails twice a day from Hen
dersonville to Asheville, .and return
by auto.; lJX- . "' ; - ; '
For several days the mails have been
transferred under the personal super
vision, of. Postmaster Bryson In auto
mobiles owned by citizens of Hender
sonville tfrafc ;: were loaned if or , the
purpose.
The government - Is willing to hire
reguar automobiles for the .mail trip
and it Is not thought that very much
time will be lost in getting mail out of
Ashevflle from now ori. , ; ' -
: Tom J. Shipman of Brevard spent
a7h1v in Aha. Mfv mi':htislnesa todaV-
) He. returned by auto; ; ! T; f '
