THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 107.
HAH II K, VERMONT, TIIUHSDAV, JULY 20, 1916.
PRICK. ONE CKXT.
FRENCH MAKE
STEADY GAINS
ONTHESOMME
HEVERIDGETO
SUPPORT HUGHES
Former Prominent Progresaive An-
nounres He Will Also Take the
Stump for En-Governor.
Xew York. July 20. After dining last
night with former Senator Albert J.
Ileveridge of Indiana, Charlea K. 1 1 ulii.
the Republican nomine, attended a
meeting of t lie Hughes alliance and held
Trenches in Hardecourt Sec
tor- Unr-th WprP Tnkpn "n Informal reception.
I In a statement which he gave out for
and All Front Line Trench- publication, former Senator Beveridge
t i i C declared that he not only would sup-
cs From Barleux to bage- port Mr ,,,lgh((1 bllt that hB wouM tMk(S
TV11 Tt-n TTi-nnoVi tne t"mP the nominee'a interest. The
court reu into rrencn prill?rMI,jV(, rartv hith he helped u
Hands
DEATHS ON
INCREASE
Total From Infantile Pa
ralysis in New York Last
21 Hours Was 31
jiEATobsnTAiJMRS. WILLIAMS
TOTAL OF 4S7 r"
DEATHS TO DATE
organize, former Senator Beveridgo. said
no longer exist, and therefore Progres- TwCntV-FoUr 'Hundred and
dives either must refrain from voting or
roriy-bix uases since
.CONTINUOUS
BOMBARDMENT
support the candidate of aoma party,
"I nil II vote for Mr. Hughes, as
scrted former Senator Beveridge. "In
taking this tnd I do not mnko nor
imply anv criticism of Progressives who
mar decide differently.
Mr. Hughes decided definitely last
Epidemic Began
Xew York, July 20. On only one day
In the Verdun Region
South of Fleury French
night to add Chicago and St. Paul to tms jm.e The inwntion of the epidemic of
1.1 e Li. ai tl- .1 1
,u.Try ,., . ir.p. infantile paralysis June 20, have more
he would speak in Chicago August 8 ana
in St Pnnl Auouat n fatalities from the disease occurred than
- - o - I .
during tlie past twenty-four hours. Dur
ing this period the plague killed 31 ihil
dran and 119 new cases were reported
in Xew York City. Since the beginning
of the epidemic there have been 4S
deaths and 2,446 chum.
Took Strongly Fortified LIST 0F DEAD
German rosz ana iou t us- nAS GROWN TO 73
nnprs A fipvman Aero
Death Toll from Sunday'a Flood Not Yet
plane Brougnt Down compiete-Nine stni
Missing.
Ashville. X. C. July 2(1. The list of
dead from Sunday's flood in five south
eastern states has constantly grown since
the channels of communication have been
restored and stood at 73 to-day with
nine persons still reported missing. Most
of the deaths were in western Xortli
Carolina.
Ira C. Calef Increases His Donations to
That Institution with J.'O.OOO, Mak
ing a Total of $41,000.
The directors of Heaton hospital were
on Hie litti mil. moat agreeably ur
prised by the philanthropic evidence of
ontinued and renewed interest in the
hospital as the following letter will part
ly explain, saya the Montpelier Argus
The letter, however, only explains the
donor's keen interest in worthy institu
tions and of his liberality and ambition
to provide, through financial aid, the
greatest possible assistance in the relief
of the suffering. Mr. Calef handed Mr
Sibley packages and requested an eram
Ination of contents. The examination
revealed bonds amounting to f 20,000, ae
companied by the letter referred to,
which explains the object of the dona
tion but not the amount donated. Tnis
donation, added to those previously made,
carried Mr. Calef donations to Ilea ton
hospital iip to $41,000, which should cause
every person in this entire community to
ON STAND IN
MURDER CASE
HAS A FIGHTING
CHANCE TO RECOVER
Paris, July 20. French attacks in the
Bomme region were delivered last night
on both sides of the river. On the north
bank, trenches in the Hardecourt sector
were taken, while south of the river all
the German front line trenches between
Barleux and Soyecourt fell into French
hands, according to an official announce
ment. In the Verdun region there was a
COLUMBIA LOSES $4,000,000.
Physicians Exerting Every Effort to Save
Dr. Wilfred E. Harm Little Knowl
ledge Gained from Autopsy.
Boston, July 20. Doctors attending
Dr. Wilired L. Harm, president of the
Massachusetts College of Osteopathy,
said to-day that he had a fighting chance
to recover from tne bullet wounds in
flicted Tuesday bv Dr. Eldredge D. At
wood, also an osteopath. While physi
cians are exerting every effort to save
Harris the police are endeavoring to clear
up the mystery surrounding the death
by poisoning of Dr. elia Adams. At-
the east bank of the Mouse the French sitv loses approximately 54.000.000 under wood's fiancee, which occurred a few h-ni's
j ,, f 41,. Tfcionmnnt Mirth- a verdict rendered here yesterday bv a before the Harris shooting. The autnpi-
e I i..en , A ..'111 vn..4V kn K I fa ilpfl in rvnl wnn whoro nnrl tint nr
, it . ...ii. tm iv. l i ii Bi'i t iliac nmuc n vt ii i rAn. uicu uj . no - - - - ..- .......
works, wnue to me souu. o. r.eury , AmM-E Eno Bhortl7 Wori his what circumstance, the poison wu re
took a strongly lortinea iterman post iu- dpath VMr The amollnt repre- oeived.
gether with 150 prisoners. A German sented Eno's residuary estate, which, his I Temporary insanity will be the de
oeronlane was brought down in the relatives claimed, he willed to Columbia Dense of Dr. Atwood when he is brought
Somme region eat of Peronne,
continuous bombardment of the Avo-
rourt and Chattancourt sectors on the Will of the Late Amos E. Eno Set Aside
left bank of the Meuae with a grenade in New York.
engagement northeast of hill Xo. 304. On yfw Vorki Julv 20. Columbia univer-
feermost grateful for these exceedingly Greeted Her Husband Af
liberal Christian acts. Mr, Calef's evi
dences of confidence and respect give to
all who are trying to make Heaton hos
pital one of the best, renewed encourage
ment and determination to carry forward
every possible means for relief and tol
make the hospital worthy of all confi
dence. He suppose that the directors
will, in proper time, make to Mr. Calef
official acknowledgment of his exceeding!
Iitwrality.
Mr. Calef's letter follows r
Washington, Vt., July 17, l!lfl.
Mr. Sibley, treasurer, and trustees of
Heaton hospital,
Gentlemen: Hearing of the pood work
admitted difllfultie with her hm-b.ind he.
MUM, ll. tlltt. Ht 111. t.)t'h
iionie, ana me couplx ihikci ingeiner dc
rasionally with Anna, or Mrs. Fehh, as
the subject of eoiivematioii. Oine, the
witness sail), she told her husband thut
Anna, meaning Mrs. Kulch. was peikuad
ing him. On another invasion Williams
went to Meredith. X. H., and the wit nets
went to her sister's home. The defense
objected tn permitting witness to state
the reason for the temporary separation.
tin the morning before the tragedy
tl,. ui ...... ;.l If, IK...... .. l,.
Testified as to Difficulties I ih farm to do'th chore t s oviock.
. , , She told in detail of his goings and eom-
Arising Between Herself oetween Fehirs and his home that
, ... . a".v- ."er supper lie returnea irom
ana Xler nUSband liecaUSe Feh-h'a. the witness said, at 8 o'clock:
he left home acrain at 9:15 o clock and
did not return until in:4f.
Witnesses ready to be heard to-d;iy
were: Mrs. John Felch, mother of the
murdered man; Dr. W. R. Rowland of
Corinth, who was called to t lie sutrsr-
house soon after Felch's body was dis
covered: George Haurht. the Tonsham
health oflicer. who accompanied Dr. R w-
land to the scene of the tragedy; (on-
stable Eugene Dickerman of Top!iam,
Sheriff A. A. Feed of Willianihtown, in
whose custody the respondent remains;
warren turner of Topjhnm. a neighbor
and acquaintance of the dead nun.
He Spend So Much Time
at the Home of the Felchs
AGAIN ON THE STAND
THIS FORENOON
HEADS VETERANS
fectionately as She En- DR R J FOgTER
tered Court To-day Kos
well Page and F. W. Cur
rier, Topsham Neighbors,
Tell of Visiting Sugar
House After Murder
DROWNED
IN WINOOSKI
Augosto Bochasi Sought Re
lief From Heat And
Found Death
BOYS FOUND
CLOTHES ON BANK
And Search -as Instituted
for Body snich Was Re
cover .oout Midnight
Association Shows an Increase of
Members During Past Year To
UI Now Is 722.
46
Just before adjournment this noon the
Washington County Veterans' associa
tion, in closing its 10th annual reunion
at Dewey park, elected the following of
ficers: President, E. J. Foster of Water
hury Center; secretary and treasurer,
John R. Wilson of Worcester; chaplain,
that may enable you more to alleviate
pain, sickness and suffering, and hoping
vou may do so to the extent of your
financial ability.
It is my wish a part should be kept as
a permanent talef fund.
Respectfully rours,
Ira C. Calef.
HEAVY FIGHTING CONTINUES.
British Have Gained Ground in the Del
ville Wood.
while mentally incompetent. to trial, it wa intimated to-day. His
Bequests of $250,000 each to the Metro- attorney, alter a conference with At-
politan Museum of Art. American Mu- wood, said there was no doubt that the
scum of Xatural History and the Society young man was deranged for the time
for Improving the Condition of the Poor, being, and when he shot Harris.
as well as $25,000 in cash and books, Tie attorney denied some statement
prints and paintings to the Xew York attributed to Atwood. "As I understand
public library will not be affected, it was I it," he said, "my client has said only
announced last night, the contestant that Harris had an influence Over Miss
fTip1o Ti.lv 00 P.,,nnl ion nf ha
wishimr it extended, knowine that, wealth trial of 0118 charged with rnur
and sickness are not always united. I der in the first degree for alleged com- A. M. Teachout of Montpelier. Burring
hand you the enclosed bonds and coupons plicity iu the death of Joseph Fekh, a t,,e following exceptions, the ame set of
f.rm,.r.l Tn.u iiim....,i,j "re-Hlu's K" lainen: m. ii. n.
;"i""-"'." """'"'" Cross of Berlin. F. W. Chase of Xorth
u.is mvrnwn oy an unevennui sewion R. D. Duns of Cabf.t. Both the
with the evidence mostly of a corrobora- president' and the secretary-treasurer
the nature. The heat made conditions were honored with re-elections
almost intolerable, within the courtroom, lnf f L r,lwrleI! , f
. . ni' iiiin i a iin-i iirrii rill mirii Villi 111 IIIU
uul "-. - m.Hjr -ilwh iu "'- reunion, making a total of 722 members
terest in the case does not appear to be in the county. During the IS years of
waning in the least. On the contrary, as e association's existence 336 members
the davs go by, the atmosphere in the naTe ra8!,pa wy
c-ouit room seems to grow more tense ixovernor uates a speaker.
and it cannot be gainsaid that events are Rov- c- w- Gates w ,he principal
i,..:n .. ja l,. r"r' l,m cainu-iire 01 uie uasn-
" . ., ington County erterans' association at
Bi-.iiB m i ue wae. , uciner me conciu- Dewey park last evening and his re
sions are to favor the acquittal of the marks concerning Vermont's part in the
respondent or whether the state succeeds country s troubles and the Mexican sit
; .;i . ;i r , uation were heartily applauded. Gov
(,atll llTinrlrl tha f.Aird Kailt nnrjim.
.. tne jrovernment in regard to Mexi
testimony of the next few days is to de- co, but gently criticized the adrainistra
termine. tion for not adopting such procedure
SEEKS A CHANGE.
IN ITS NAME
People's Lighting, Heating & Power Co.
Wishes to Shorten It to Barre Gas
Co. Wanta to Increase
Stock.
London, July 20. Heavy fighting con
tinues on the Somme front, the war having stipulated in the event of a ver- Adams that prevented marriage. So far
office announced to-day. The British Mjct favorable to them to protect these as I know he made no claim that the
have gained ground in Delville wood and institutions
Longueval. Xorth of the Longueval
Bazentin position the British have pushed
forward their line. East of the Leipsie
redoubt bombing parties made a sub
stantial advance during the night.
CAPTAIN K0ENIG D6NS UNIFORM
young woman was in a state of health
that was a bar to their union."
The medical examiner stated to-day
that an examination of Miss Adams
body did not reveal a physicial condition
GREAT BATTLE
m TT rkVTTT'7 A submarine Deutschland, put on his
Al JALUIM11M form to-day for the first time sin.
Not Leave It Again.
Baltimore, July 20. Captain Paul Koe
nig, commander of the Germant merchant
s um-
day for the first time since he
landed 11 davs ago, and said he would
The Results of Which Have Been Thus not leave the ship again. He indicated
an early departure but said nothing that
would give any Idea when he would
sians. leave. Although she is surrounded by a
screen of tugs it was seen that the
Boards the Deutschland and Says He Will that might be expected as a result of low
spirits and the consequent tendency to
self-destruction
WOMAN RUN
OVER BY AUTO
Far Favorable to the Rus-
Mrs.
John Whitman Seriously Injured
at Middlebury Last
Evening.
Middlebury, July 20. Mrs. John Whit
man and five-year-old daughter of Sey
mour street, who were just crossing the
highway at the north end of Main street
to go to the village park to listen to the
band concert last night, were run over
by an automobile owned and driven by
Chancy Wilmarth of Addison who was
onincr ,,n tho hill Mr. Ulll.. .. . ,
Kovel and Vladimir Volynski and in the ue ' ",e taken from under the machine which had
London, July 20. A wireless despatch Deutschland was submerged to about the
from Rome says that it is reported from same depth as when she came into port
Petrograd that there is a great battle ' Tg
developing at Jalonitza the results of
which have been thus far favorable to FLOOD MAINE WITH ORATORY.
4h Pnaainnft.
In addition to the heavy fitting in the Is the Mention of the Republican Cam
Carpathians, the despatch says the Rus
Bia.n offensive has been resumed before
paign Committee.
New York, July 20. Ten Republican
Kiga area jalonitza is in tne ijarpatn- Am.ust 21 and September 10. in an et
ians south of Kolomea near the northern fort to carry that state, according to the
or, A nf fine nf the mountain naftgAA lead- I atjitamoiif nf Konntnr WaoV. nf Af.c...
ing to Hungary.
chusetts at a meeting of the Republican
national campaign committee to-day.
HURLED STONES AT ITALIANS.
By This Means Austrians Repulsed At- j
tacks of Italians.
Careless Mermaids.
-Distinct traces of light
Bacon Distinct traces of light have
been detected in the ocean at depths of
more than 8,000 feet by an English
oceanographical expedition.
Egbert Some careless mermaid gone
Berlin, via wireless, July 20. By hurl
5ng stones down the mountain side the
'A...i.:.. .n..lcsJ ll.u n.i;.. I. . . . . ... . .
icp"' l0 ana jorgot to turn out the gas,
attacks near Barcola pass, says an ofiV probably. Yonkers Statesman.
rial Hireraenc iwueu jrum , iriiun 111 i
yesterday's reports.
OCCUPIED BY RUSSIANS.
Kugi, Important Point in Caucasus, Was
Taken Tuesday. .
Petrograd, via London, July 20. The
war office announced to-day that Kugi,
an important point in the Caucasus
mountains, was occupied by the Russians
Tuesday.
Baby Agrees with Edison.
Mrs. Popson I was reading where Mr.
Edison says that four hours' sleep is
enough for any man.
Popson That seems to be the baby's
idea, too.
Kugi is a junction point of the high
roads in the Erzerum district.
PRESIDENT ASKED
TO INTERVENE
Prominent New Yorkers Want Him to
Use His Good Offices to Settle the
Cloakmakers' Strike.
Washington, July 20. The preident
to.day received a request from Henry
Morgenthau, former ambassador to Tur
key, Cleveland H. Dodge, Barton Hep
Trn, and other Xew York men to ask
the government to intervene in the cloak
makers' strike now i progress in Xew
York for 12 weeks. The petition was on
the grounds that the strike threatened
the supply of women's clothing through
put the whole nation. The president re
ferred the petition to the departments
cf labor and nrmmer", with the req-ueat
that imrned;at action be taken. The
luren of roneiMstion will probaWy un
dertake nr"ttton for the settlement
cf the strike.
1
The Barre Board of Trade want 40 au
tomobiles for the free use of those going
on the better acquaintance trip to (liel-
sea Wednesday evening, July 26. Please
offer the organisation the use of your
car. All members of the Board of Trade,
withadies, are expected to attend. Free
transportation by automobile from Barre
to Chelsea and return to holders of sup
per tickets, starting from park in front
of opera house at 5:45.
been stopped immediately when the ac
cident took place. The woman was un
conscious for fully ten minutes. Tho
child managed to crawl out and was
more scared than hurt. The two were
rushed to the office of R. W. Prentiss and
later taken home. Mrs. Whitman is
thought to be seriously hurt. The girl
is somewhat bruised.
YOUNG ELOPERS HELD.
Always to the Rescue.
"Science states that girls are getting
taller year by vesr.
"What if girls get so tsll thst men
cant walk with them?"
"Fashion will introduce some kind of
a bend. Puck.
the
pros-
As He Saw It
"la this land rich?" asked
peetie purchaser cautiously.
"It certainly ought to be, replied the
gentleman farmer. "I have put all the
moner 1 had mts it.
Two Viewpoints.
The Politician In all my ntr I can
say that I have never done anything to
be ashamed of.
The Cynio You mean that rnu have
never dona anything Tea were ashamed
of.
Rice and Barrett Jailed at Rutland, in
Default of Bail.
Rutland, July 200. Twice within the
last few days Rutland officers have ar
rested young men who eloped with
girls.
lesterdsy morning, in the city court
Perley Rice of this city was held in $1000
... ... i ......
oau on a statutory charge which impli
cated Alva J. I, Voice, It years old
laughter of William -l. La Voice, a fur
niture dealer here. The cirl and the
young man, who is 19, left the city Mon
day night. According to her story to
the police, they passed the night in the
woods near et Rutland.
Miss La Voice had expressed to friends
her desire to go on the stage. On Tiles
day morning when she was not found in
her room, the police were notified and
search was begun. At 11 o'clock Tues
day night she returned home and Rice's
arrest followed. He was sent to jail to
await grand jury action.
Mary Pitts. 13 years old, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. George Pitts, and Charles
Barrett, 25 years old, eloped Into Xew
York state two weeks ago and have just
been located by Vermont officers. The
couple was living in a log cabin on th
top of Luzerne mountain, near Lake
George.
Both were brought back and yester
day morning the man was held on a
charge of kidnapping. He was commit
ted to jail in default of (1,500 bail.
Before the Vermont public service
commission, sitting in the courtroom at
city hall this forenoon, the People's
Lighting, Heating 4 Power Co. made ap
plication to ehenga its name to the Barre
Gas Co., to mortgage its corporate prop
erty to secure an amount not to exceed
$250,000 and to increase its capital stock
by the creation of a 6 per cent cumula
tive stock to the amount of $50,000. Rob
ert C. Boeon of Brattleboro, chairman of
the commission, and Walter A. Ihitton of
Hardsvick were present, the third mem
ber of the commission, W. R. Warner of
Vergennes, being unable to attend. Xeil
I). Clawson, the commission clerk, was
also present. H. H. Blanchard of Spring
field appeared for the petitioner and
State's Attorney F. E. Gleason represent
ed the state.
Obedient to custom, the commission
reserved its decision pending further ex
amination of data filed with the clerk by
counsel for the petitioner. The hearing
convened at 10:30 o'clock and as no one
appeared to oppose the petition, the time
was mainly taken up with the presenta
tion of the gas company's case by its attorney.
In stating the reasons back of the pe
tition, Mr. Blanchard referred to a re
cent meeting of the directors of the com
pany at which time it was voted unani
mously to issue a mortgage, provided the
consent of the commission could be ob
tained. As many as 3,676 of the 4,000
shares of stock were represented at the
meeting, he said. Turning to the first
article, he said that several reasons dic
tated the desire for a change in the name
of the concern. When the company was
organized in IfMM, counsel went on to
say, several public utilities owned by
men back of the local concern were
named alike. The name suggested in
the article would assure brevity.
Indicative of the company's present
financial status was the annual report,
completed June 30, and read before the
commission to-day. The company's cap
ital stock at that time was $100,(100 and
there was $75100 in a closed mortgage,
the bonds being due to mature in 1920.
The indebtedness to the directors was
$50,000. At this point Mr. Blanchard
stated that all of the officers are serving
without pay with the exception of the
treasurer, who receives a slight compen
sation. In the event that the commis
sion' decision is favorable, the company
expects to sell its bonds at !21,, paying
5 per cent to the bond merchant, and
realizing 873. It is the expectancy of
the companv that $25,000 will be realized
from the transaction, besides taking care
of the indebtedness. Of this sum it is
proposed to expend $15,000 for repairs
and additions to the plant in Barre and
to use the remaining $10,noo for needed
extensions.
&fi.r i,. w r,i.,- .,-. before. The governor, who was accora-
Ingineer Myron J, Buck, who has figured Panird hr Major Benjamin Gates, did not
prominently on three davs of the hear- autn poinin, pu ioi. r. t.. iu i-
ing, Mary" Williams, the girl wife of I'ns, secretary of the ermont eterans'
l.- ...n.in .i cv,. association of Boston, asserted at the
respondent, took the stand. rhe pre
served her calm mien of yesterday after
noon and corroborated statements made
by other witnesses relative to doing
about the farm, the condition of her hus
band's clothing, and his movements on
tho day preceding the crime.
Frequently objections were offered
whenever the prosecution attempted to
secure a statement from her as to the
bottom of differences between the wit
ness and her husband. Mrs. William
greeted her husband affectionately
court this morning.
Roswell Page of Topsham, a neighbor
of the Felch family, was the next wit
ness called. He testified to visiting the
sugarhouse Easter morning aiter the
news of Felch's death had been conveyed
to him. He identified several objects
marked as exhibits by the state. Among
them were the rifle which caused the
farmer's death, his clothing and a lan
tern. F. W. Currier, also a neighbor of
tlie Felch people, said he went to the
sugarhouse in the forenoon Sunday. He
noticed the position of the body, the lan
tern and the interior appearance of the
sugarhouse. Mr. Currier was recalled to
the stand to complete his statement
when court convened this afternoon at 2
o'clock.
WILL BE SETTLED
BY COMMISSION
Members of the Barre Board of Trade
pleaee remember to purchss ticket for
self and lady and attend the gt-together
supper at (Tieleea Wednesday evening.
Tuly 26. Positively only 15" supper tick-
eta will be sold rn Barre. Price. ,W each.
First come, first served. AH holders of
supper tk-lret will he given free trans
portation bv automobile from Barre to
Chelsea and return.
Only Final Approval of President Wilson
and Carranra Is Lacking, It Is
Said.
Washington. July 2 An announce
ment that settlement of the differences
between the I'nited Ftstesand Mexico will
be made through a joint commission is
looked for in the immediate future. Only
the finsl approval of President Wilson
and Carranza is lacking, it was said today.
Lansing Improved in Health.
Wstenown. X. Y- July 2. Secretary
of State Iiiisiig returned to bis cittag"
at Hender.on harbor last night after a
week's h fis.iing trip on (iallnup inland
in lake Ontario. He is greatly improvei
in health and expect s to spend two weeks
more at Henderson hrb"r.
Mrs. Williams a Witness Yesterday.
Oppressive heat retarded progress on
the inird dav of the trial In tne case of
State vs. Otis Williams, charged with
murder in the first degree for alleged
complicity in the death of Joseph Felch
at Topsham on the night of April 22.
Three times yesterday recesses were tak
en to give the occupants of the crowded
courtroom a chance to get a breath of
air. .Much time was consumed in the ex
amination of Myron J. Buck, a Bethel
engineer, who was recalled to the stand
to testify concerning a number of plans
which he made in the vicinity of the
shooting. Buck was on the stand at 5
o'clock when court adjourned until this
morning. Jurors, court, attorneys, re-,
spondent and court attaches, although
they turned their backs on a day in
which little seemed to have been accom
plished, appeared relieved to be rid of
the humidity in the court room.
Interest yesterday centered largely
around the testimony of the respondent's
wife. In the morning Dr. B. If. Stone,
the state pathologist, testified minutely
as to his observations upon arriving at
the Felch farm April 24 and at the au
topsy, which he conducted with the aid
of Dr. C. F. Whitney, the state chemist.
John Felch, father of the murdered man,
took the stand after Dr. Stone's testi
mony had effectively disposed of the sui
cide theory. Then Maurice Gale of Brad
ford, a deputy sheriff, told of taking
clothing and boots from Otis Williams
after the shooting. The boots were of
fered as an exhibit for the state and it
was indicated that spot on the legs of
the wearing apparel might be blood. In
the cross examination apparently the de
fense sought to show thst if the spots
were blood thev might be the blood of
yoiing domestic animals, as it was shown
that Williams was ai-customeii to be
shout the barn w!i-n calves and hmbs
were Knrn. lVpiitv Sheriff Gale identi
fied both clothing and boots.
Mrs. Williams, a young woman of girl
ish appearance and the mother of a babe
six months old. maintained her compos
ures s.he told of difference, arising between
berhusKndand herself as tr result of al
leged at'entions from Mrs. Felch. SV.e
identified th clothing and hoots inro-dn-e4
as exhibits hy the state. She (
fifel thst she was married o the re-
rM-nt at Cornth IVc. 4, 1914. She
close of his remarks that we comrades
want to see your governor, Gates, elect
cd to the I'nited States Senate, whera
he would admirably uphold Vermont
traditions," and ended by calling for
three cheers which were given.
State's Attorney Fred E. Gleason n!o
spoke durfng the evening, referring to
the splendid record of Vermont soldiers
in the war of the states and touched
upon preparedness.' Yesterday afternoon
Col. Foster, representative in the stata
legislature from Calais, talked upon pre
paredness, drawing from his fund of
practical knowledge to emphasize his
remarks.
TRANSFERRED TO
THE INFANTRY
Men of the First Vermont Cavalry Now
Under Command of Colonel Ira
L. Reeves. .
LenvirT,, his bnardinghouse, 245 Bsrra
street, directly after he hail eaten his
evening meal, to go swimming, Atlgosto
HochuM, a granite cutter employed in the
liirrns plant at .Montpelier, was drowned
in the Winonski river neir the Montpe-
t r f.uti club. His body was found short
ly Ix-fore midnight after the police and
many volunteers had searched the river
for several hours with grapples and elec
tric torches.
Boclmsl was not seen alive by any of
his friends after he left the house of
Luigi Pilini, where he boarded, his clothes,
watch and a small amount of money be
ing found on the lank of the river near
the railroad bridge bv two boys, Arthur
Lamvjrrti and Luigi Magne, "who hap
peniii upon the nrtiilrs as they were
about to dis.ro he to take a dip themselves
about an hour later. Thev immediately
started a search for Bochasi and failing
to locate him run to the nearest house
and called the Pilini home.
The police were notified in turn and
ktarted for the scene in an automobile.
being accompanied by a large number of
volunteer assistants. Arriving at the
bridge the police were uncertain as to
whether the body would be on one side
of the river or the other and it was near
ly 11:30 when John Bartlett, after div
ing repeatedly, found the body on the
Berlin side of the river. He succeeded in
bringing it to the surface. aissited by
another young man, and after securing-
permission from the selectmen of Berlin
the body was removed to the Volholin
undertaking rooms.
A cut about two inches long on Bo.
chisi's forehead leads to the theory that
he was diving from a spring board and
that he misjudged the depth of the
water, striking his head on a stone and
losing consciousness, causing his death.
Others venture the opinion that death
was due to his entering the water so
quickly after eating a meal.
Bochasi was born in Champo, Italy,
about 20 vpars ago and came to this
country and Montpelier three years ago.
Aside from a few months spent in Bnrre
he resided in Montpelier for that period,
being employed as a granite cutter in tho
.Turrass hed. He roomed at 152 Barro
street and boarded at 245 Barre street.
He is survived by his parents and two
sisters in Champo. Italy. It was only six
weeks ago that Bochasi received word
that his onlv brother had been killed
while fighting with the Italian army.
The funeral will probably be held to
morrow afternoon from 152 Barre street,
with burial in Green Mount cemetery.
SEVENTEEN NEW CITIZENS.
-'T -:-'-r Camp Governor Gates,
Tf- Fort Ethan Allen. Vt.
July 19, 1916.
Tlie men of the first Vermont cavalry
were to-dnv transferred to Colonel
Reeves' regiment, the first Vermont in
fantry, to form mounted scoiits, supply
company and a machine gun company.
Under the new law a regiment is a very
arge organization and may contain alvuit
2.400 men. This will put all Vermont
roops under the command of Colonel Ira
Reeves, president of Norwich univer-
itv.
Of the officers of the first Vermont cav-
Iry, some are detailed for recruiting
uty, some as military instructors in mo
bilization camps, and Major Wallace
Batchelder. the commanding officer of the
cavalrv, will return to tne aviation
squadron, where he was when ordered
rom Washington to Vermont to take
command of the first Vermont cavalry.
A False Report.
Mildred Oh, no; Helen isn't going to
marry old Mr. Moneybags.
Gertrude So there isn't anything be
tween them now
Mildred Onlv forty years, and Helen
says that isn't enough. Judge.
This Number Given Final Papers Last
Evening.
Xaturalization court moved on to Barre
yesterday and during the late afternoon
and in the evening until 0 o'clock Clerk
F. S. Piatt and his attaches were busy
most of the time, although the number
of applicants was not as large as in
Graniteville, owing chiefly to the fact
that a large grist went through the first
hopper of the citizenship mill here in the
city only a few weeks ago. There were
seven prospective citizens who applied
for pnpers of the first class and 17 whoso
applications were for second papers. The
list is given below :
Second class Francois X. Z. Archam
bault, Quebec; Giovanni Argenti. Italy;
Carmine Baldassini, Italy; Fred Carrier,
Quebec; Joseph Collings, England; Wil
liam Deans. Scotland; Alexander W.
Harper. Scotland: Louis Lavin, Spain;
Albert C. Larscn, Denmark; Adolfo Ma-
giatris, Italy; Anthony S. Masi, Italy;
Andrew Mitchell. Scotland; Hans Xeil-
son. Denmark; William G, Pirie, Scot
land; Giusette Sem pre bon,- Italy ; Gusto
Tooa, Spain; Mrs. Agnes Kladora, Aus
tria. First papers Giovanni Ballerini, Italy;
Alexander W. Cormsrk. Scotland; Ade
lord Fortier. Quebec; Thomas A. Gund
ery. England; Amilere Gobbi, Switzer
land; Giovanni Montini, Italy; Battista,
Peduzzl, Italy.
COBBLE HILL GRANGE.
"Is he going to be a doctor or a law
yer?" "I'm not sure. He expects to be a
skin specialist." Purple tow.
WHY MIXD THE HEAT?
There Is Snow at Benjamin Falls
Read and Keep Cool.
Snow parked sway in a seques
tered spot by Melxon Kcnni.-ton
near Benjamin talis last winter
was uncovered yesterday and lound
to posses the driven appearne of
snow that piled high against jc.i.
j pie's b'k pssttite fence in lr.
I riury and M.in-h. Mr. Kcnnisfnn
' used K in completing the snow
cache and several large (hunks
were intsct hn he pi.ked atut
a shaded nook where th- snow was
bid-ten. H secured quantify of
the pure while and rrr- to
' be a engsriig off ' !:. r.ime
j one of these ds. S . st fVr
' am:n fall on July I1 i e, -nc i !
j to he a rar'tv.
Children's Night Observed Tuesday with
Pleasing Entertainment.
Children's night was observed at Cob
hie Hill grange Tuesday night, with tho
following program, which was arranged
bv the committee. Mrs. R. F. Davis and
Mis. .f. K. Thurston: Piano solo, Flor-
jeme Summers; recitation, Elva Veino;
4(. I recitation. Adi Pii,i; -".org. Barbara,
!mit!i: recitation. I ir"ne Holt; rpcita
jtion. Fordyee Rtt-l-ic, violin solo, Mar
jjorie Smith: I 'ltition Wilson Thurs
jton; rccif urmn. I.etlia Hersey. in c-s-itumc;
recitation. Francis Thurston: reci
tation, Laura P.aker; piano solo. Kernie
JDavi:'-. s.ff the program the crvldrcn
j v c, c com
,s treit of
f--r theni
ent end the
joye 1 the i-u
-ted -he dining room, whei-
! cicim .-ii cake wn readv
Thi-ve wee 2-" children rres-
".n-r Tes very ni'ich en
uiuii v. huh 'Lev f;irr.ishrd
Et Mon'pelier Campmeetinj.
E-t MontpeLer. July 20 The ramp-
jrw-ct-ng here is increasing in ir-teTest
1 1 'v. A very hp'ii'iit tcature is a serviee
lot B-Ve reading- .-it the morning servic
T'e armuit mis. nary meeting is to be
' - ' I n Kr: lay at 2.3n ' '-k.
, The fn-n.ial end of tl-e meeting loots
.rv lav table th.s vcr l-mise of the
o! a rte ,,n tJ la-t year.
:, h-.- tf.- me:;iij of tre a--.-u':n
a tj l-e at 1.5" Frii.iv afurnoon.
