- 77-:4 : , , .
ALPAPERUBSRIPTION PRIC ON DOLLA
Estalsh1 7- ume PICKENS, S. C., JULY 20, 1916
Miss Nellie Freeman has returned
krom a spoasant visit to Chester.
Miss. ernice Carey spent several days
last'week with friendln Easley.
Mr. J. Pd Carey and Miss Floride
-Carey spent Thursday in Greenville.
3(N. James Tribble of Anderson is
visiting frieTds and relatives In Pickens.
Miss Josie Chastain, popular sales
lady for' Hobbs-Henderson Co, is tak
ing her vacation.
Rev. R. A. Hudson will preach. at
folly Springs church first Sunday in
August at.10 o'clock.
The 'Town Creek school wills begin its
summer sessiou July 24, with Matt
thastain as principal.
Misses Marion and Iris Harrison of
Easley are visiting friends and rela
tives in Pickens.
Misses Minnie and Catherine Bearden
of Spartanburg are the guests of Misses
Ora and May McFall
'The Pickens chapter-V. D. C. held an
enthubiastic meeting at e home of Mrs.
T. R. Allen last Friday afternoon.
Bethlehem school will open Monday,
July 24, with Prof. Ebb Field in charge.
Pupils are urged to be present first day.
-.Troupe Partridge had the misfortune
to have a -tooth knocked out while work
ing on a car on the Pickens railroad
one.day last week..
Jesse Jennings, engineer on the Sou'
thern with headquarters at Hardeville
spent one day last week with his par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. JenniTgs, in
Pickens.
At the checker meet held ht Easley
July 4, Dr. T. A. Seawright of Pickens
w,on the county championship.' He is
now ready to defend his title against all
comers.
Bennett Powers has resigned his place
with A. C. Gravley and will devote his
time to the interest of his race for
county treasurer. Claud iester has
-ccepted his place with Mr. Gravley.
Gdorge organ, son of B. A. Morgan
of Greenville, has returned to his home
after -spending several days in Pickens
with his aunt, Mrs. R. A. Bowen. Mr.
Morgan graduated this spridg from
Cornell.
Messrs. 1Wade Chastain and J. P.
Carey, Jr., spent several days last
week in' New- YorK and' Washington on
liusiness. While' in Washington Con
gressman Aikej took them around to
see President Wilson.
The Ocone .county farmers' chautau
q06 willibe heOi in'Seneca July 25, 26,
27. This is an educational effort for
this whole :sectibn and the people of
this county are invited to go over -and
enj6fKit.' Everything'i'free.
The Sentinel recently sent notices to
all subscribers whose subscriptions to
this paper expire - this month. , Those
who fail to renew by August 1 will be
dropped from our list. We do not want
to drop a single subscriber, butwe must
stick to our rule.
John Gantt has been appointed game
warden of Pickens county.. and has en
tered upon his duties in that office. He
has made arrangements. so that resi
dent hqnter's license may be secured
fron the clerk of court or at any mag.
strate's office in the county..,., -
The Pickens town~shin si" cOrn
vention will rmeet with the G a.11ap
tist church on the- fifth Sunday In July.
This will be an aJl day, rvice'. and 'v*
-erybody is:cordially invi d-to'cona and
bring song books and well filed 'bas
kets. By order of the committee.
Thie Tattlers were delightfully enter
* tained on last Friday by Mrs. Weldon
*Chistopher and Miss Eva Christopher
.at their hospitable home on Anne street.
About twenty-four -young ladles were
present to enjoy the afternoon. Cream
-and cake we served by the hostesses.
The home coming wvhich was to have
~been held at Antioch on July 9, was
postponed on account of the rain. A.
were in town ope day last week andl
brought us some of the good cake that
his wife had fixed for the home coming.
It was fine and lhe has our thanks.
The chaperones at the Ivy Park for
the week beg inning July -17 are Mrs.
H. E. Jones, Mrs. R. R. Roark, Mrs.
CE. Robinson, Mrs. J. M. Stewart,
'Mrs. J. L, Valley, Mrs. L. E. Wiggins'
*Those for the week beginning- Jul 24
are Miss Knight. Mrs. T. R. A llen, Mrs.
A. J. Boggs, Mrs. Charlie Bowen, Miss
Ada u(ralg, Mrs. Lou Curtis.
* .In speaking of the evangelistic ser
vices at Pendleton, Rev. W. M Owings
in thp Anderson Daily Mall says: "Rev.
L. E. Wiggins of the upper S'outh Car
olina Conference 'will assist the pastor,
*Rev. W. M. Owliiga, in these sservices.
Rev. M. Wiggins after finishing the
* theologkia course at Vanderbilt Uni
versity tok a trlD to the Holy Land and
.comes to us with fresh gospel messages.
Those-who heard him last year were de
lighted .and It is hoped that no one will
* 4o8e a single oportunity bf hearing him
* ~ each seikvlce during the meetin a Ser
vices daily at 11 a. mn.and at68.8 3p. m.~
Ruby, the three and a hale er old
*daughter, of Mr. and Mrs. J. WLag
ston,a no angero ly na l~lra ne
cotn became lodge 'in her witd ip
Her mother was fedtng ther .chicken
and the little girl had. an'ear of corn in
her hand. Chfild-like she pu g
into'her mouth and It becameuted in
her wihdpipe.. She was rush e the
city hospital at Greenville* and ' Dr. L
o. Mau din an~d Dr.-2. W, Carpote
succeeded after two houi-s in r~n~in r
St. Te little girl~d Wabrugt~
~O~nday a t~noon and -
(Cgari
Cedar Rok Happenings -
B. H. Williams and son Ned are vis
iting Frank Williams of Sumter.:
J. W. A Holidnd and son Wilton of
Princeton' visited : at/ the home of Joel
H. Miller last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Taylor Jones and chil
dren of the Cpncord section were the
guests of Mr. Jones' parents, Mr. and
rs Z. T. Jones, last week.
Miss Rula Hendrix' who has been
keeping books for Hendrix & Keith of
Greenville, is spending the summer with
homefolks.
Qscar and Walter Turnei motored to
St. Stephens last week to visit their
sister, Mrs. Evens Myers. Mr. and Krs.
Myers and daughter and Miss Thurston
Myers returned with them.
Elmer Hendrix of Greenville visited
at home last,week.
Weldon Jones of Easley"spent the
Week-end with his parents last week.
\ There is going to be an all-day singing
at Ceda,r Rock the fifth Sunday. Prom
inent singers are expected.
Born, to J. T. Mauldin and wife, on
the 17th, at the home of the latter's
arents, Mr. and Mrs. Joel H. Miller, a
ne girl.
Mrs. Bob Hendrix had as her guests
the first of the week Prof. -and Mrs.
Myers, Miss Thurston Myers and Mr. and
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Turner.
Mr. and Mrs. Will Beasley spent Sun
day as the guests of Mr. and Mrs. McD.
Farmer. Susie.
Next Tuesday the Last Day
Up to 2 o'clock Monday afternoon
517 voters had placed their names on
the club roll. In 1914 there were 653
voters registered at this club, so this
leaves more than :. hundred who are
not registered. 'Those who do not
register on or before July 25 cannot
vote in the approae.ing primary.
You do not have i, have a tax receipt'
or anything else to get your name on
the roll. All yodhave to do is to write
youa name on the book, or if you cannot
write go to where the book is kept and
get someone to write your name. The
roll for the Pickens club will be found at
county treasirer's office.
Wherever you live, get your name
on the nearest club roll before next
Tuesday or you cannot vote in the nex4
primary. This is the last q*11.
Home Demonstration
Every member of the canning clubs
and bread clubs of Pickens county is
urged to be at the school house in Easley
Monday morning, Jly 24. The girls
will bi eptertaed6 by the gnple of
1i ey in- their 'homes. A4onday
night a lawn party will be given for
the girls, and Tuesday night they will
go' to he pictureshow.
'Nieday has been designated as a
special' day for the Imembers-of the
Hone Demqnstration clubs. One of
the special features of the day will be
an addtess by 0. B. Martin of Wash
ington, D.- C.10
Al the ladies of the county are asked
to attend any of the meetings in which
they are interested.
Norris News -Notes
(Too Late ft*-Last Week.)
On Iasi *Tuesdy .eVenink from 8.30 to
0.80 Athr beatiful. hore Mrs. I. D.
"ice chaftnipgIyen'ertaired her Sun
'day schodl alas aid the it" guests
at "ifth'and porch- ...g g Much
aniusem't"w's Afforde the ev
ening #th-'the various gAe, after
Which d6lidiots tefreshineht was serv
ed. There were 30 guests present and
the hostess in her usual charming man
nrb mad .the event delightfully enjoy
Md~is Emma Smith, who has been
spending -sever'al months in -Norris,
boarded train No. 29 last Friday morn'.
ing for her father's home in Gadsen,
Ala. uring Miss Smith's stay in
South Carolina she has made many
Mis. Will Chambers had as her guest
last week her sister from Alabama.
The protracted- meeting will begin at
Golden Creek Baptist church the fourth
Sunday in this month conducted by the
pastor, Rev. Mr. Walker. Also an as
sistant will be secured for the meeting.
Mrs. Smith of Seneca was the guet
of her grand - daughter, Mrs. 'Anie
Smith for the earlier part of the week.
Mr. and Mrs. Mc. Rhiodes and inter
esting two boys, Cal and Mc., Jr., spent
a portion of the week in Greenville.
Mr. and Mrs. Gilstrsp h'ere thegut
of- relatives Tuesday.
Ollie lice and Arthur Sheriff are in
Rosman, N.. C., where they. have ac
cepted positions.
Miss Ernestine Rankin, of Liberty,
was the recent Aguest of her college
friend, Miss Minnie Sheriff.
Mr. Wiggins has been in town this
week visiting friends.
Miss Maybelle Mauldin and~ Lewis
Mauldin visited at Mountain View last
week.
A party composed of Mr. and Mrs.
James Clardy and Mr. and Mrs. Ale, '
ander motored to Easley Thursday.
James Dunn, Miss Mamie Dunn and
Willie Maddox went to Eseley.Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Mack Rdper and chil
dren, motored fromf Pelter arnd spent
the earlier part of the week with Mr.
and Mrs. I. D. Rice.
Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Bell, Mrs.'J B.
Bell and L. A. Beil, of Central rou'te 3
spenta$unday afternoon .witli Mrs. C.
HBinmgsly, the trip being made in
the latter's car.
Susie, I'm missing your 'good letters,
come again. NFWSCATCHIER.
Tom Bates lost a dog and couldn't
Iind it, so he put an advertiseme, t in
The Sentinel. As a resl hefidte
~og \vithin a few days. l
* |
A. H. .ACNALL
Pandidate For Congress
W rife aeIVor TES;
Payment to the Confederate veterans oi de mnon.y
>llected by the Federal Government from the illegal
x on cotton.
A law prohibiting the intermarriage of 'hites and
egroes in the city of Washington.
A rural credit law which will enable the thrifty
mant to own his own home.
The restriction of immigration by stringent laws.
An Armny and navy of sufficient streingth to maintain
ie honor and dignity of the nation.
The enactment of lawvs that wvill make farming at
active and profitable.
Federal aid for puli~c highways.
Federal inheritance tax.
Payment of pensions to old civil service emiployes.
Strict en forcement of Osvil Service rules.
A fair dlivision of profits between capital and1 labor.
FORD-THE UNIVERSAL CAR
Obey that impulse and get your Ford car today.
There's no valid reason why you should deniy
oursef the pleasure and* 'profita ble service the
Obey that impulse. "Time is money," and the
service of a Ford doubles the value of your time.
Touring Car, $440; Runabout, $390; Coupelet
$590; To~wm Oar, $640; Sedan, $740.
All prices f I ,.etroit. On display and sale b~y
a s .
The Reason
On account of no trains running be
tween Charlotte and Easloy The Senti
nel's regular shipment of paper failed
to arrive this week and we are there
fore unable to issue the regular size
paper. Of course.we regret this, but
it cannot be helped. The almost un
precedented rains.of the past few days
have put the railroads out of commis
sion all over Virginia, North and South
Carolina, and is inconveniencing people
in every class of business.
Candidates Speak Here Thursday
Candidates for congress and solicitor
in this district will speak at Pickens
next Thursday, July 27. This will be
the first regular campaign meeting for
these candidates and will doubtless be a
lively meeting. These are important
races and will be the hardest fought of
the year in this section. A large crowd
is expected to attend this meeting.
The candidates will also speak at Easley
Friday, July 28, and at Central Satur
day, July 29 at 2 p. m.
Communication
Editor Pickens Sentinel:
The following communidbtion has
been sent to the Anderton Farmers'
Tribune for publication:'
Editor Farmers, Tribune, Anderson,
S. C:
My attention has been directed to an
article that recently appeared in your
paper m which you call upon H1on.
W yatt Aiken to tell about a trip he and
another gentleman took to Highlands,
N. C., last summer, "in company with
two ladies from Washington."
As the article is a reflection on me as
well as Mr. Aiken, since I am the other
gentleman referred to, though not by
name, I will ask that you publish the
facts in the case, which are as follows:
About a year ago, in response to an
invitation from me, Mr. Aiken came up
to Walhalla direct from -his home at
Abbeville. At Seneca his train was
held some minutes for a train from At
lanta. On its arrival the two ladies re
ferred to (whom I afterwards learned
were from Mississippi), accompanied
by their children, got off the train and
inquired the way to Highlands, where
they were going to spend the summer.
Mr. Aiken, or perhaps Major Stribling,
who was present, very courteously told
them to go on'to Wal halla, which was
the best and most direct route to High
lands. The next morning P. S. Shook,
proprietor of the Walhalla livery stable,
sent the ladies, and their children to
Highlands in a carriag.. The same af
ternoon Mr. Aiken, Charlie Lyons and
myself wont on a two days' trip to Jo
CMstasee which is in a4 opposite direction
fron A~ighlanidg.
On our return to Walhalla Mr. C. F.
Brown, contractor on the Walhalla
Highlands auto mail route, which Mr.
Aiken a short while previously had in
duced the Post Office Department to
estabIsh, came to me and begged that
I persuade Mr. Aiken to go over the
route, see the roads, and make an ef
fort to get his contract price increased,
stating that he would take us both to
Highlands and back free of charge.
We finally prevailed on Mr. Aiken to
make the trip, which we did the next
morning, going in an auto, Mr. Brown
driving the car. At Highlands we stop.
ped at the Edwards House. After dig-,
ner Mr. Aiken decided. that as. we were
so near to Cashier's Valley, where his
old friend, Judge Benet, lived, and'who
he had, not seen in years, he. would' rutt
down to 4ee him. By the merest chance
Mr. Aiken and I met these ladies ott the
street as we were preparing 'to leave
for Cashier's. As there was room in
the car we invited them to take the
trip with us, knowing that. they would
enjoy this mountian trip, which Is al
most unsurpassed. They accepted the
invitation and Mr. Brown again drove
the car. We returned to highlands be
fore dark, the ladies getting out at the
Hall House and Mr.A Aiken and I went
to the Edwards House, occupying the
same room, where we remained till we
came home.
The ladies referred to were to' all ap
pearances refined and cultured, and it
is my belief that any insinuation against
their character is a foul slander. While
they were unknown to me-as I am
sure they were to Mr. Aiken, except as
casual acquaintances-I carnnot believe
that, if you could have met them, you
would have connected them with any in
sinuation of wrong-doing.
Finally, allow me to say that 'the
practice of besmirchin gpublic men has
become so common that many unjust
and false accusations are allowed to go
unanswered. 'In this instance, howev
er, I know the facts and say unhesitat
ingly that the insinuations are false. I
am pretty well known in Oconee coun
ty, also in Anderson, where I was rais
ed, also up and down the Blue Ridge
Railroad, where I served for years, and
believe that my statement of the affair
will not be questioned. I would not
warp or cover the truth for my best
friend, and I, emphatically denounce as
false the insinuations contained ini the
article referred to. N. L. FANT.
I hereby certify that I have read the
above statement made by Mr. Fant, in
which several references are made to
me, and the same is absolutely correct
in every particular.
C. F. BROWN
Contractor for Highlands -Route at'that
time.
This July 10, 1916.-Adv.
Hampton school will begin Monday,
.Juy 24, with Miss Louise Grhivley as
Montvale school will' open Monday
July 24, with Hal 4lott as principal andl
Miss Ruth Cannon as assistant.
Hagood school Will begin its summer
term Monday morning, July 24, with
Miss Ethel Jones as teacher. All pupils
urged to be present-opening day.
Local ld
Miss Belle Yo *AA
and Newberry,
Rev. D. W. Hiot n
tracted meeting at bor
Anderson county this week.
The many frieinds ofMI
Legare are delighted to see her ii
Vns agahb.' She is the guest of'
roncs Bruce.
Wa day Thmas of Murphy
town Tuesdaj'id sayILte'rehtj
no great damage in his section
says the reports of' damage In near -
sections have been greatly exaggeramd
All persons interested in the ce te
at Griffin church are'requested to rh004
at the church for the purpose of "le A
ing off the grounds on Tiursday, Aug
10, bringing necessary tool.
Dr. J. L. Valley started frem )PI*
ens to Hendersonville in his Ford gun
day morning, but when he got AObbt
twenty miles above Greenville WM xorc
ed to return on account of a bridge be
ing washed away.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Ben Gravyley:of Di.
las, Texas, arrived in Plckens thiweek.
for an extended visit to relatives'li this
section., Mr.Gravley Is a " atIo of
Pickens county, being a son'o Mr d. and
Mrs. L. B. Gravley of near P ckens -11
We-are glad to have them among us.
While the recent rains have daused
much damage In Pickens county, ita
pears that We have not suffered as mua
as surrounding sections. Several small
bridges in the county have washed
away and it is reported that sone of
the large ones have given way, but it Is
impossible to verify all the rumors.
Great damage has been done bottom
land corn. Practically all streams have
been overflowing. Part of the dam
which suplies lights for Pickens was
washed away and the town was in dark
ness Monday night.
Miss Gladys Smith of Easley has been.
appointed special assistant in the home
demonstration work of South Caroltia
and began her new duties July 16. Her
field will be the entire state, with'head
quarters at Winthrop college with Miss
Edith L. Parrott, State supervisor of
the home club work. Miss Smith is a
graduate of the College for Women,
now Chicora College for Women, ,of
Barnard college and teachers' college.
Columbia university. She has been
teaching in the home economics depart,.
ment of the State Normal school at
Greensboro, N. C., but preferred to be
in home demonstration work in South
Carolina. She is a daughter of Mrs../
R. F. Smith and a most popUir ?oune
lady.
A. C. Mann, magistrate at Union
was attacked ubon the streets of tha
town by Marvin Charles several days
ago and was knocked down end conaid..
erably bruised. - Charles; Who was un
der suspended sentence having been
fined $50 or six months at the last
criMinal virt in. Viion County for
hog liquor, the sentence beingsus
upon good behavior and paymento -
fine, was arrested again soveral SaR
ago upon a warrant sworn out by the
rural policeman of that county an is
sued b Magistrate Mann. The attack
was said to have been the- result of ag
ger towards the magistrate. Charis
was tried in the mayor s co it and fin
ed $50 or thirty 4ay. le has O
served a term In the ederal prison in
Atlanta. 'Charles is h powerful man,
weighing more than 200 paiinds, while
Mann.. Iq lame ..and has to :use a stick
\ Wen.walking... A. C. Mann: is a Pick
e8a co nty boy and is a ion of Mr. and
Mrg. Aaron Mann of the Six Mile sec
tion..
Two Negroes Killed
Matthew Fruster, a negro and a mem..
ber of a construction camp at -Calhoun
was killed last Saturday by a work
train. -The verdict of the coroner's
jury, was "That Matthew Fruster came
to his. death by his own carelessnes
swinging off and on moving train."
Dave Masters, a negro, was found
dead in a patch of woo~i 'ors last
Saturday. He was workging on the
double tracking of the Southern rail
way near Norris. The verdict of the
coroner's jury was "That Dave Mas
ters came to his death by -a blow on the
head by unknown party or parties."
Bad Negro Killed
A negro known only as "Barrel of
rrouble" was almost instantly, killed
Nionday afternoon in an exchang of
ihots between himself andl Sheriff
Roark of jPlckens and Deputies Georg
King and Charley Bruce of Greenville
rhe shooting occurred at Paris, a short
distance from Greenville. It was not
known which one of the officers killed
the-negro as all three fired at him when
be opened on them. Tne killing occur.
red In a cut on the railroad. The negro
opened fire on the officers as they ap
proached him to serve a warrant.
The officers were held by Sheriff Rec
tor of Greenville. James H. Price was
retained as their attorney. They'came
to Pickens. Monday afternoon and ap
ared -before Judge Matildin. Their
bond was fixed at $500. The case will
come up at the-next term of criminal
court In Greenville.
'Barrel of Trouble" was a member*
of a gang of three negroes that hav9'
been terrorizing construction camps oxr
the Southern railway for sometime;
One of the other negroes, "Jim John.
son" is In the Pickens jail, and the.
third member ',Yaller Corn" is still at
large. "Barrel of Trouble was wanted
for murder in Georgia. lie also . held
up) and robbed three negroes in the low.
er part of the county several days ago
He shot at the foreman of the constru~-~
tion camp near Croswell and was a no-.
torious negro. H-e had made the threat's
that he would die before being arrest
His1 realtname is not known.'
