5$tm.
' THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow fair
moderate westerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 78; lowest, 36.
Detailed weather, null and marine reports on page 1.1.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 279.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publlihtng AatoclaUo,,.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
GERMANS LOST 18 VESSELS,
BRITISH 14, SA YS ADMIRAL TY;
BERLIN STANDS BY ITS LIST
Kijrlit Hir Sliips. Nine De
stro.vers. One Submarine
Sunk. London Assorts.
DIX'LVIIKS TEUTON
1ILT01ITS AliE FALSE
Jellicoe's Fleet Force'd, En
emy to Flee to Fort in
Very llrief Period."
FEW OFFICERS SAVED
FliUM BRITISH SHIPS
of Those on Cruisers
Sent to Bottom Lost
Their Lives.
Cable lepalch to Tne 9i.
Usw. June 4. The Hrltlsh Ad-'
Uiralty save out a statement this
, .... ,. .,
afternoon declaring that pending the
compilation of details of last Wednes-
v..i. c. i ...t , ,..,.
dav s .North hea b.ittle these facta have
titen poltlvely established: I
The Herman reports of the battle
,
are iuisc.
The Herman losses were heavier
than the Hrltlsh, not merely In pro
jortlon. but positively.
The arrival on the scene of battle i
of the main body of the Hrltlsh high
Mis Meet was the signal for the Oer-
, .
man fleet to speed back to Its base.
Trior to Sir John Jelllcoc's arrival I
the German Meet had been severely ,
punished. Sir John took un the dux- i
.... ,
suit. The two miUn fleets were re-
peatedly in momentary contact, but
the German .light made It Impossible
for the Hrltlsh to bring their full force "0"', nl n,K" Bca a"" ur'"s lu , handicapped by the big odds, they bt-
Into pluy. I ..Jlour.".". t. ui i , , tied to drive the Germans away.
Darkness nut a stoi, to the norsult 7he "a"',l,e; uhl?1 wa." "e ' "' ' The same American ambulanc, see
jJurKncsM piu a slop to tne pursuit car Cst vessels to return to the base. . , , , 1i,ihir'irfrSfd al Poht
nd then tin. destroyer flotilla to.,1; p ,,nlim.,, ,w,wecI, , warrior and her j?' ''' ".ntMinr
the chase and successfully uttuckcU
tho Kaiser a warshllis. i
Grrninn 1,1st (iiiiilrtr.
i.aie lo-nigui a uerni.ui .timirouy
utiemeni was received nere nsserunn
that the German fleet suffered no
losses beyond those admitted in cs-
terday'a official account.
Whllo the Admiralty does not cite
positive facts to support Its nssertlon
that the German losses were heavier
than the British, it declares that "there
seems to be the strongest ground for
apposing" that the Germans last two
buttli-shlps and two dreadnought lU
tl i-nilsers besides three light cruisers.
Th:.- makes n total of eight big
r.h nine destroyers and one sub
mat mo, a grand total uf eighteen vc
tr as againHi only six big ships an4
t I, it destroyers, a total of fourteen
v.siids, ndtnlttedllost by the' British.
(.riiiaii Toiinnite l.nas Gram,
Tue German declaration to-night
that un further losses were suffered
thin those announced means that the
Kaiser' Admiralty Insists: that the
b.i'tle cost (?rmany only three bis
fh ps and a number of torpedo
1mis The Hrltlsh announcement
brings the Herman loss In tonnage
thus far asserted by llerlln to be only
43.000 up to or even beyond the Hrlt
!s i' s of 12.1.000 tons.
1l way of emphasising that the main
(.(,,, i uf the Hrltlsh grand fleet made a
'em sweep of tho North Sea waters
ome It apMiired on the scene, the Hrlt
t"l vcltnlralty lelates that Sir John
.Mlicic, "having driven the enemy Into
por'. returned to the main win of
he .i.iiou and stayed there until noon
"n lime 1, nearly twenty-four hours
sfier the first shots had been exchanged
oi the pievlouH afternoon, and searched
it- i-c.i for disabled vessels. Finding
' .ii nnd having fulfilled his task, the
Dru'sh lonimander returned to his base,
t ii- ls away. Un the following eve
mrc Vilmlralty states, the Hrltlsh
fi" ,m again ready to put to sea.
vi t" the Hrltlsh losses, the Admiralty
ltiists that there Is nothing to add to
' fuIit,i,i from the previous enumera
tion of ships lost.
Mory of Hie I'Ubt.
T Ailinlralty's statement follows:
1 ' I the commander In chief had
ii 1. 1 consult the officers engaged
s' write a full despatch any attempt
a dt tailed history of the naval
.-igenicnt which began In the nfter
' f May ,11 and ended In the
n i ' ng hours of Juno 1 would evl
!' ! be iiremature. Hut the results
i' (Me plain,
I e 'iiaml Fleet came In touch with
iirman high seas fleet at 3:30
' h in the afternoon of May 31.
'! ' ailing ships of the two fleets
'I on a vigorous fight In which
ittle cruisers, fast battleships
' Hildiary drift all took an active
The losxes were severe on both
inn when the main body of tho
' lb et came In contact with the
"i ii IiIbIi seas fleet a very brief
i sufficed for tho latter, which
ui n severely punished, to seek
s.. in their protected waters,
h s manu'iivrc was rendered possl
' the low visibility and tho mist,
.iUiuukIi the Grand Fleet was now
'leu able to get In momentary
i with Ms oppnients, no con
ii r IK lion was possible,
MlneUeil Onrliiu Mtflit,
I'lntiiiueil the pursuit until the.
' ttr.il failed, while the Hrltlsh
wis were able to make sue
i a tack on the inemy during
lllll
A'ule Sir .loliii .li'llleoe, having
i i'ii' eui'tii) into port, returned to
Ccmdniuvi on fourth Page.
NO FURTHER LOSSES, SAYS BERLIN. I
Special Cable Drt patch lit Tin: Bi n
BERLIN, via Amsterdam, June 4. The German Admiralty late to
night issued the following statement:
"No German naval units were lost except those mentioned
in the ofllciul communique-."
It was asserted in Berlin to-night that no Zeppelin was lost during
the North Sea battle.
SAW DUELS OF SEA
AS IN NELSON'S DAY
British Sailor Describes thojTvvo Teutons Are Forced to
Mirhty Combat in Which I Lund and Others Are
tne Invincible Snnk.
NO TIME TO SAVE M EX
.nemtf fable Kenpatcl- la Tint Scv
Ijonpon. June 4. Among the numer
ous sailors who on their return told of
the battle, one describes a duel worthy
of tho Nelson tradition, between the In
vincible and a big Herman warship, the
Identity of which Is uncertain.
'The two ships," he said, "fought like
lu"dogs. all guns firing at once
and
of them hitting, with such nn cnor-
nious vvelsht of metal pouring out that
lhe llu(ll WIIH ,MllmJ t0 be short. It
lasted less than thirty minutes.
"It was a tight to death, and both
,,, (llod The 0ermiin vcswl burBt
Into flames and sank. Almost lmme-
dlately afterward the Invincible followed
her to the bottom, Rotb sank -with their
flags flying. The water was strewn with
men. dead and alive.
Hut In the midst !
tr tne nerce nuni u
as Impossible to I
arrest the activities for the purpose of
I paving inc.
The uueen -Mary was in ine mimesi
of the flcht ntiil did heavv damage. She
then became the centre of the converging
re "f several powerful Herman ships.
She broke In two and went down after a
Biorlous battle.
Wnrrlor Abandoned.
"The lot of the Indefatigable was very
,
similar. Mie was In a smashing fight at
close quarters, inen ine wo was mown i
"ul f n?r: . Tne U ftr.. r J". to. . L. i-1 1
.. i .... n T,.. ha lira ii' r, r.inun
enemies and received a salvo meant for
the badly hit Warrior. She did not sav
' I
the Warrior, but probably savcil the i
I Warrior's crew
I ..Tu.. I .,,1,1 T)pp iv.tn Httvprpll
enKilKr,i and returned safely'
Admiral lleatty's men seak with en-
tntmlasm oi Ills coolness, courage
elllclei.o. fighting a tremendous battle I
atalnst heavy odds. Apparently .ep-
pelins wrmii me .e a: or w e ..
proach of the Hrltlsh dreadnoughts an
hour or so after the battle cruiser squad- ,
I.. nAl.... .1,.. Il.,,ultu
roil nail KUIlf lllitr unuii iim- vr, ......,
turned tall and made for home, casting
mines overboard as they went.
II Ik shells lit Short Hnnge.
A survivor of the Wairlor told this
story
"We got to very close ipiarters, less
than
.. C HA. ..n.la I v,n .1 d n I. '
I should say. It
was fair '.leather, but misty. A winterly
gale bad subsided. The entire Herman
navy seemed out against us ami an
ships wire firing us fast as they could
serve their gun.
'The whole sea looked like one bloody
battlefield. At such short range you
could scarcely miss. Great 14.2 inch
shells were coming at us all the time.
Some smashed clean through the ship,
killing every man they touched. ve
engaged ship after ship. We accounted
lor two light crulsera urn a destroyer.
"We saw the Queen Mary blow up as
result of concentrated tire. It looked
as If a magazine exploded. She broke
In two and went down like a stone. It
was all over In a couple of minutes.
Hight In the hottest of the battlo It
was Impossible to plckeup men out or
the water.
"The Indefatigable went down much
the same way. She had given the
enemy a devil of a pounding and they
gave the same to her. our losaes on
the Warrior were few. We were badly
holed. On" of her engines was smashed
and the others stopped.
"One of our shliw took us Into tow
and drew us out of the line a grand
lilt of work In the middle of shell fir
and torpedo attneks. We should have
reached the base, 1 think, If the sea
bad not gone mi. We shifted ships
without any loss of life.
"All we want Is another ship and
another 'so' at the Hermans, for they
are Jolly worth fighting,"
FEAR FOR THE WESTFALEN.
HambnrK Has Hnmor neuritis; Oat
t'nninelal llerlln Despatch.
Sptrinl Cable Detwtch to Tin Scv
Copeniiaoen. via London, June 4,
Humors arc current In Hamburg that
the German dreadnought Westfalen and
the battle cruiser I.uetzow were sunk In
the North Hea battle.
A desputch from Irondon on Saturday
quoted a wireless despatch from Uerlln
as saying thai the German Admiralty
admitted the loss of the Westfalen,
an 1R.900 toil ship armed with twelve
11 Inch guns. She was completed In
October. 1901).
The Hrltlsh Admiralty has announced
that either the Derftllnger or the I.uet
zow, vessels of tho same class, was sunk.
These battle cruisers, completed In 1914
and 1 D1R, have a displacement of 26,600
tons and carry eight 12 Inch guns.
KAISER "PROUD OF FLEET.'
Mhnvtrd Itself an I'.vfn Mutch far
Huprrlor Enemy, Hays Telearrain,
Amhteiwam. via London, June 4,
Count Kcbwerln, president of tho Prus
sian Diet, read In the Diet to-day a tele
gram from Kmperor William, sent In
reply to the Diet's message of congratu
lation upon the "grand victory of our
high seas fleet over a greatly superior
Kngllsh battle Meet."
The Kmperor's message said i
"With you I am proud of our mighty
n-et. which by this feat of arms has
proved it Is an even match for a superior
5 AMERICAN AIRMEN
FIGHT 14 GERMANS
Driven Away.
t'SK EXPLOSIVE lU'LLETSlder a guaranty of the rent of the
1 (I'Nelll-Adams store In .Sixth avenue.
Mr. Claftln, who was examined by IS.
irn'd I'alilt tietpaich In Tiir Sin
Paws, June 4. The American avi
ators' squadron took its usual midday
flight on June 1, the smaller powered
machines starting first. A few minutes
after Luftbury and McConnell had
started, Hirt Hall, who was following,
hnppcned to glance upward and saw a
number of German machines overhead.
Hall pave the alarm, and thereupon
Chapman, Cowdln, l'rlnce and Hall, with
a French captain, the commander of the
squadron, rose quickly to attack the Her
Rockwell's machine was being 1
mans.
repaired and hu was unabltt to My
The first two Americans continued the
flight, unaware of the presence of the
Herman aeroplanes. The others headed
for the nearest nolnt In the Herman
lines, and after reaching an altitude of
7. 50 feet, turned on the Hermans, who
Here now directly over the town, drop-
ring Komns, wnicn me omciai com
munique later announced killed eighteen
civilians nnd wounded twenty-five."
There were fourteen German machines
ond only five American, but the latter
engaged the enemy unhesitatingly, meet
ing a terrific machine gun tire. The
Hermans were using explosive bullets.
One attacker had a great hole blown
into his gasolene tank and was forced
miiu, Allium-. nr" u,,fv,,. u ,.,
. , hvlne been nut out of action.
to land. Another was compelled to land.
"
Tw() ,.,.,,, machines were hit and
nult the combat. As the Americans were
carrying them to the hospitals.
Walter
1 .....II !.! ,.f .V,. ,m1v l,w.rt
in, calir
... . . ,. ,. ,, ,. ...
where the bombs weie falling and di
rected the operations.
A third American aviator had his lr-
I.... ...nB .....l , JOB..n,l Th
,,. .' ,h V..,,,,, fl,r ,hlr OWI, n,,..
rk,, ,.. , ,h. A,.rlci.ii nvla-
d hc nvn
. . chflj
Mccontu-ll. finding himself above a
mB,.i,lne. dived for it Having
two guns, hc opened fire at a distance of
if..,...iri.
Much firing niul manteuvrinK
followed until a bullet put McConncll'H
gun out of action.
His aeroplane was found later. It
had received nine bullets, but none In a
vtnl spot, McConnell lost bis bearings
and flew for three hours and landeil on
i .iu. field. He hit an obstacle, which
, overturned his mathlne, smashing it. An
automobile took him late that night back
to the squadron, where he had been re
ported missing.
A C. I.ane, correspondent of Tiik Sun
with the Franco-American Aviation
Corps, writes from the front under yes
terday's date:
"The exploits of the Franco-American
squadron are attracting volunteers.
Walter l.ovell and Harold Willis of Ilo.i
tou and l.lef Hartlay of New York have
been accepted Into the corps. They will
commence training as pilots within a few
days. The three have been members of
the American Ambulance Corps at the
front continuously since April, l'.'lfi. and
have beiii un the Verdun front since
February
"Chatkoff. Dowd, Kdmonil and Genet,
as well as Corporal Pierre Heal of Unas
burg, l'a who for the past year have
been serving with the First Cuirassiers,
will begin a course In the pilot school at
Hue to-morrow."
SOCIALISTS UNMOVED.
I.edeboiir nnd Hntiir llrmaln
grated at IlrlehstaK Announcement
.sprrlal Cable VetpalrU In Tiik SIV
Amstkkoam, via London, June 4.
llerlln despatches say that when Dr.
Kaempf, President of the ltelciistag, an
nounced the North Sea battle In the
House the Socialist Deputies l.edchour
and Hnnsn remained seated and ignored
Indignant protests of other Deputies,
IRISH AGREEMENT REPORTED.
Terma Settled by ( arson and lied
in ouil Are Given.
I.ONDO.V. June 4. A forecast of the
terms of the settlement of the Irish ques
tion said to have been agreed upon by
Sir lMward Carson nnd John Redmond
has been received hue. Cnrsou is to
submit the proposition to his followers
at Helfast on Tuesday.
Under Us terms a Home Hule Pallia
ment will bo Immediately set up In Dub
lin for lhe three southern Irish provinces
and also the three Ulster counties of
Donegal, Cnvan and Monaghan, tho re
maining six Ulster counties to continue
under the Hrltlsh Parliament until the
end of the war, when the question of
these excluded counties will be recon
sidered, KAISER KRUPP HEIR SPONSOR.
Will Stand as Godfather to Child
Horn .May 110.
HkiiI.in, via lndon, June 4, F.mpeior
William has consented to act as god
father to a son Isirn to Dr. and Frau
Krupp von Kohlen and llalbach (Ilertha
Krupp) on May 30,
Tho Kmperor also was godfather to
Frau Krupp von Holilcn's first son, iiorn
August 13, 1907.
IIkui.in, via London, June 4, The
Krupp firm has Just purchased a fac
tony at Dessau which It will operate
fur the manufacture of shells. The
firm only recently bought a site for an
urllllcry lucturjc in Munich,
CLAFLIN HAS $200
AFTER PAYING DEBTS
Merchant Has Only Small Sum
in Bank 92,000 in Por
.soniil Effects.
OAVK ALL TO CHKU1TOHS
Story of Restitution Is Told in
Tteport Filed by llcfcrcc
in Judgment.
.Tnlin Claflin's lilMory of how he has
divested himself of hie wealth and re
duced his entire assets to n hank ac
count of $200 and clothing and Jewelry
worth not more than J 2,000 Is told In a
report riled In the office of County Clerk
Schneider by Charles O. Maas as ref
eree. Mr. Maas was appointed to dis
cover whether Mr. Claflln has any prop
erty that may be applied to the pay-
mem of judgment for $.19,374 obtained
j against .Mr. Claflln liy the United States
I Realty and Improvement Company, un-
H, Habhage, vice-president ami secretary
of the 'judgment creditor, testified that
his sole place of residence is now at
Morrlstown, N. J and that he has no
office In New York, Is not engaged In
business of any kind and Is not Inter
ested In any partnership. After stating
that he lias a balance of $200 In the
American Kxrhango. Hank, Mr, Claflln
said
"I own no other personal property
except my persona! effects, worth not
morp than 2.ooo. and certain stocks
that hav-s no market valus."
Mr. Clallln said that he owns no real
estate and that his Adirondack camp was
conveyed to Frederick J. Mlddlebrook
under an agreement of September 25,
1914.
NothliiK I Onrrd to lllm.
"To the best of my knowledge no per
son or corporation owes m money with
the exception of my balancu In the
bank," testified Mr. Claflln.
Iu reply to a question as to what as
signments, deeds of sales of real estate
or personal property amounting to more
than $1,000 h has made since June 1.
1914, Mr. Claflln said that he transferred
to the receivers of the 11, H. Claflln
Company the corporate scur!tlcs of
some twenty-Mx retail dry goods stores,
"practically all of which were wholly
owned by me and were the primary
debtors on a series of promissory notes
Indorsed and negotiated through the II.
B. Claflln Company."
Mr. Claflln said that on July 1. 1914,
he deposited with his brokers as ad
ditional security for his account 1,400
shares of the Columbia River Fruit
Packers Association, which security was
afterwaril solil uy ine oroscrs nnu n
proceeds atiplled to liquidating his ac
count. At about the same date he used
100 shares of stock of the National Hank
of Commerce and twenty shares of the
Home Insurance Company and certain
overdue mortgage amounting to not
more than $5,000 "In adjusting my ob.
ligations to a trust company." Mr. Claf
lln continued .
"During the week following June 2.1,
1914, 1 paid to certain Individuals, all
of them belnn women, to whom the re
ceivership of the H, H. Claflln Com
pany brought financial distress, by way
of making up for unpaid Interest on
deposit accounts or for advances on
account of the principal, securities and
money not exceeding $30,000 In value.
I paid my attorneys approximately $10,
000 for services and disbursements.
"In June. 1914, I transferred realty
owned by me between Klngshrldgc nnd
Fordhnm to the HraJigo Healty Company
and deposited the entire capital stock
of the corporation as security for loans
made to ine, 1 paid a Federal Income
tax and a few months rent of my for
mer residence at 15 Washington Square
North, but otherwise I have not trans
ferred any property or made any pay
ments Involving more than $1,000 since
June 1, 1914."
When asked If he had transferred
iny property to his wife In the year
previous to that date Mr. Claflln snld :
"I may have given her some little
ptesents, but nothing of any Impor
tance," Mr. Clallln said that he has never
paid off tlie pole on which the stock
of lhe Grange Healty Company was
dopoilted as cnllateial. and It Is now
overdue. He has no life Insurance, and
so far as he knows he Is not n beneficiary
on the life Insurance of any one else.
As to certain claims by the Claflln
creditors that Mr Claflln was Indebted
to the company for payments made In
his behalf, he said that In the course of
a great many years prior to June l, i9it.
many payments were made for his ac
count, and during the same period "very
large sums were paid to the II, n.
Claflln Company for the credit of my
account,"
First Got M.Oim.on.'t Credit.
He said that the preliminary report
of the occountants to the receivers cred-
It en mm witn it, 0:6,093. but later the
estimated value of many of the assets
was reduced, and "It was asserted that
an adjustment and liquidation of the
account would show an Indebteness due
rrom me. This account was running
through the entire existence of the II.
H, Claflln Company, and the conflicting
reports were never finally adjusted."
When asked for an explanation of
the shift by which he was alleged to
be a debtor rather than a creditor of
the Claflln company, the witness said:
"It was a serious question whether I
ever guaranteed the O'Neill-Adams ac
count, They claimed that I had, and
that the assets were not sufficient to pay
the liabilities. My own opinion Is that
they were. If the business had been
carried on I believe It would be going
to-day nnd would be making a little
money."
James S Alexnnder, president of the
National Hank of Commerce, who was
a member of the noteholders' committee,
was also questioned, In reply to queries
by Alton H, Parker, the witness said
that the committee received 131,661,000
in notes, of which his bank held $500,000
bearing the II, II. Claflln Company In
dorsements. As to the value of the property turned
over by Mr. Claflln, the witness said he
believed at the time It was worth $760,
000, .but he thinks now that $500,000
would be nearer right. The deposit
creditors got nothing from the trustees
except the It cents that all creditors
receive, but from another source received
41H per cent. In rash for the sale at
par of that amount of notes of the Mer
rantlte Stores Corporation which they
owned, nu gold,,
8CHIFF RENOUNCES
JEWISH LEADERSHIP
Vilified Heynnd Endurance br
ills Own People, He
Tells Kchillah.
HECALLS PAST SERVICE
Hush Falls Over Convention
When Banker Unex
pectedly Speaks.
Jacob II. Schirf, saying with tears In
his eyes that he had been misrepresented,
maligned nnd hurt as never before by his
coreligionists, withdrew yesterday from
participation In the Jewish Zionist and
Nationalist movements, the projected
Jewish congress anil all similar affairs.
He made known his Intention In an un
expected address to the Kchillah, In con
vention In the Hebrew Technical School,
Second avenue nnd Fifteenth street.
Mr. Sehlff's Impressive speech was fol
lowed almost Immediately by a vote of
confidence, after Judge Leon Sanders
had spoken of Mr. Schlff as the greatest
of living Jews, but there was one vote
against this testimonial to the man who
has done so much for his people.
Vilification that had become loo much
for him to bear, said Mr. Schlff, began
Immediately after he had been quoted as
blaming the Jews In Hussla themselves
for many of the hardships they have suf
fered under ltusslau despotism. Tills
was two weeks ugo. Mr. Schlff euld that
he had been warned that If he did not
stop his opposition to the movement for
u jtre.it congresj of American Jews to
secure freedom for Jews all over the
world, the confidence lu him of the Jew
Ish people would be undermined.
Tells uf Threatened Attacks.
"1 have been told repeatedly that I
would be attacked," he said, "that the
confldenie of the Jewish people In me
would be undermined, and 1 would be
broken down, This wnole attack Is only
part of a very well conceived plun.
Whatever I had said even If Hod Al
mighty had put the words tu my mouth
I would have been maligned and at
tacked, because It was part of a plan
which had been carefully worked out. .
"Whoever can assert that 1 have ever
denied mvsetf to rnv people." continued
Mr. Schlff, with almost a sob In his
voice ; "whoever can say that I have not
given not only of my means, but of
myself, day In and day out, let him rise
and accuse me." Not ona among the
crowd that tilled the hall arose.
Mr. Schlff then declared that h had
been misrepresented In the Kngllh and
the Jewish newspapers that reported his
speech two weeks ago at the Central
Jewish Institute, He did not mean or
even say. he said, that the Jews had I
brought Husslan persecution upon them
selves by living too much by themselves,
lie did say that their troubles were due
to the segregation enforced upon them
by Hussla. He read them exactly what
he had said, as follows'
"If the Jews of Hussla and Poland
had not been kept as a separate people,
discriminatory laws, the prejudices of
persecution to which they have been sub.
Jected, would not have reached the stags
to which we all regret they un
fortunately have come."
"Now, my friends," said Mr. Schlff,
"there Is not one word In this I am not
prepared to stand by,"
Hash as ehHT llemlnris.
There was a hush In the hall, usually
bussing with animation, when Mr. Schlff th Hepubllcans would not toke Hoose
recalled to the Kehlllah Ills services to.l '
the Jewish people, whether In Husnia
or ine i niteu niaics, ana remintieu mem
that he had told the President of the
I'nlted States that our treaty with Hus
sla should be abrogated nnd Russia
compelled to permit Jewish Immigration.
Then, amid silence still more profound,
be explained his unexpected presence
by saying that he hail come "to deliver
up the sword of dissension."
"I may say this by way of valedic
tory," he ended, slowly, "I hnve been
hurt to the core, and hereafter Zionism,
nationalism, the congress movement and
Jewish politics, In whatever form they
come up, will be a sealed book to me.
I shall continue to woik for the uplift
of my people In all constructive work.
in procuring full civic rights for our
brethren In the war zone. Hut beyond
this, my friends, my duty ends."
There has been dissension about the
plan for a Jewish congress. For his
opposition to the plan Mr. Schlff has been
criticised ny an eiemeni in tne Keiiiimn,
and this element made more trouble yes
terday. At one time a hundred dele
gates, after a stormy .cine, threatened
to leave the hall, Finally sixteen did
leave, During the excitement Cyrus L.
Sulzberger, Judge Oustav Hartman and
Louis Llfsky made speeches.
The convention opened with an address
by Rabbi Magnes, the chairman, who
quieted the early P' tiahUlea among the
800 delegates by appealing to them to
show that the Jews of New York really
can work together,
Tempest Starts Aaaln.
Almost Immediately, however, trouble
started over the principal bone of con
tention, the Jewish congress, the Ameri
can Jowish Committee' attitude toward
It and the Kehlllah's relation to both.
A letter from Louis Marshall, chairman
of the committee, read to the Kehlllah
on Sunday night, said that the commit,
tee did not favor the holding of a con.
Kress until after the war. A large ele
ment In the Kehllluh would like to hold
the congress before the end of the was,
Then there was more trouble about the
manner In which delegates are being
sent to the Kehlllah, but the reading
of reports on the new communal school,
the bureau of Information and the cen
tral Jewish charities bureau was sand
wiched In somehow, There was more
confusion, however, when the question
came up of how to get the Kehlllah out
of debt. An avalanche of plans poured
In from floor ana ganery, ana the quel
Hon was tabled.
The convention nuonteci a resolution
strongly condemning the alleged dls
crimination in tne national uuard be,
cnuse of race and religion, which some
Jews recently nave complained against
The resolution says that the guard
should "be regulated by necessary legls
latlon or executive oraers, so that It
should exclude any Idea of private pro
prietorship or social ciud.
Or. Chase Halls far Front,
Among the passengers on the French
liner Chicago, which sailed for Bor
deaux yesterday, was Dr. Carroll Chase
of 90S rarM place, Brooklyn, who w,Ul
lauUr th" hosfiltal gervic in Fransv
HUGHES MEN CLAIM 350
VOTES ON FIRST BALLOT;
MAY WIN AID OF MOOSE
DELEGATES LISTED BY HUGHES LEADERS.
fJHICAGO, June 4. Republican leuders who are pushing the Hughes
candidacy for the Presidential nomination contend that he will have
more than 350 votes on the first bnllot in the convention, 493 votes
being required to nominate.
The States which they say will go for Hughes on the first test,
with the votes which each will enrry, are:
Alabama, 9; Arizona, 5; Arkansas, 7; California, 20; Colo
rado, 5; Connecticut, 7; Florida, 0; Georgia, 6; Kansas, 10; Ken
tucky, 8; Louisiana, 10; Maine, 12; Maryland, 8; Michigan, 30;
Mississippi, 8; Missouri, 25; Montana, 7; Nevada, 3; New Hamp
shire, 4.
New York, 3"; Oklahoma, 15; Oregon, 10; Rhode Island, 10;
South Carolina, 5; Tennessee, 10; Texas, 10; Utah, 8; Vermont,
8; Virginia, 10; Washington, 7; Wisconsin, 11; Wyoming, 0;
Alaska, 2, and Hawaii, 1.
WILL TAKE WILSON
RATHER THAN ROOT :
Oscar Straus Says the Proizrcs
Hives Fuvor President if 0.
0. 1'. Names Ex-Senator.
IFF. IS FOR THE Jt'STICE
Chicago, June 4. The Progressive
National Committee will meet at 10
o'clock to-morrow morning. The chief
purpose of this meeting Is to arrange
the credentials which have been sent
here by the secretaries of the so-called
State conventions or brought In person
by the delegates. A roll Is then to be
prepared. There are no contests.
Haymond Hobblns of Illinois will be
selected as the tenrporary chairman of
the convention. Mr. Hobblns Is credited
with more or less radical tendencies.
On the other hand. It Is on the slate
to name Walter Hrown. State chairman
of Ohio, as permanent chnlrmnn, and
Mr. Hrown Is one of the leaders who
Is ready to take Hughes.
It Is quite poerlble that the com
mittee will discuss the question of strat
egy, but whether It will Indorse
the plan of holding off to smoke out
Justice Hughes N doubtful. A ma
lorltv of the committee Is not at all
convinced, it Is snld, that Col. Hooec- I
velt cannot be forced upon the Kepuu- '
Mean convention
Many leading Progreslves flocked Into
town to-day and It Is apparent that the
Bull Mooie people are to have a real
convention, both committeemen and dele
gates taking their duties very seriously. '
In the afternoon the Progressive board
of strategy held an Important conference
In Mr. Perkins's suite at the Hlackstone,
which lasted several hours. Those pres
ent were. In addition to Mr. Perkins
himself, K. A, Van V.ilkenburg, editor of
the Philadelphia .Vorlh American; Oscar
Straus, chairman of the New York Pub
lic Service Commission . (5ov. Hiram
Johnson of California, illfford linchot.
William II, Hotc.hklss Henry L. Stod
dard, Hatnbrldge Colby and W. L. Han
som, They went over the situation with
Mr. Perkins. They all professeil to be
holding faM to Col. Hoosevelt.
Mr. Perkins admitted to-day that he had
been In touch during tho day with some
of the Republican leaders. "These con
fidences were all in ine spiru or ine
Sabbath," he said
t-mnw tr,iti4 tnil a flat declaration
..,'.. ,t,, i ... fr .lusil,-.. Hushes if
velt
"Hut If the Republicans nominate Mr.
Root, from what many of our delegates
have told me, I firmly believe," said Mr.
Straus, "that a majority would be for
Indorsing Prtsldent Wilson. 1 do not be
lieve in bringing the Supreme bench Into
VollllcH, although personally Mr. Hughes
would he accepiauie to me.
Mr. Hughes hns made the ct-.ongest
argument himself against the bench be-
Ir.ir lnlected Into pontics. I feel thul Mr
Roosevelt is certainly me man to ne
nominated. Who has made this Issue
Who has Inspired all these preparedness
tiaradeiiv Mr. Roosevelt ami not Mr
Hughes. 1 do not see how Mr Hughes
can be taken before he dellnes his pus!
tlon."
As to the question of whether the
delesates to the Progressive convention
could Ue biought to take Justice Hughe
should he meet the coinlltlnnw, Mr.
Straus, who Is a delegate at large from
New York State, said: "I think It will
be hard work to control, but I think
It Is likely we can do so
Mr. Hotchklss, .Mr. Colby and other
New York Progressives generally share
the views of Mr. Straus In fact, the
New York delegation In the Progres
slve convention will certainly be for
Mr. Hughes, It was stated to-day, If he
in some way can Indicate that he meets
their views on the Important Issues
K A. Vnn Vnlkenburg and William Kllmi
of Pittsburg nre said to hold to this
view.
But all of these men, who are power
ful In tho Hull Moose council, let It be
known that they most emphatically
would not take Mr. Hushes under the
present conditions; that no man as silent
as the Jurist would receive their sup.
port and votes In the convention.
Meantime the radical Hull Moose aie
saying that they will not take Hughes
under any conditions. They are look
ing toward Oov. Johnson for leadership
The Governor Is keeping very quiet as
to his views. He Is not even a delegate
to the convention, but Is to be there
merely as a spectator.
Nevertheless, he Is regarded aa having
great power, and Ids attitude Is giving
some of the strategists serious concern
How potentially troublesome the Pro
g res slve convention appears Is shown
by the fact that It will consist of 1,015
delegates and 77A alternates. There are
to be 34 women delegates. It Is the
larger convention of the two in point of
delegates and the Impression Is wide,
sipread that It Is going to be some
hosr.
GREEK KING TO ABDICATE?
Home llrsn tfensattoual Develop
ments Are Itlkrly,
Special Cable lletpatch to Tut 8iv
Ron i, June 4, An uncensored des
patch from Athsns hints at the possibil
ity of the abdication of King Constan
ts or ureece.
The despatch adds that the reslgna-
tlon of the Greek Cabinet Is Inevitable
and that It will result in sensations!
iaSYopnwnu,
JURIST ASSAILED
BY'PROGRESSIVES
Moose Won't Name Jlim Fn
less Ho Defines His Posi
tion, Says Ediet.
IS ACCUSED OF DODGING
Ciiicaoo, June 4. Significance was
attached to a statement which was Is
sued at Progressive headquarters to
day made by Harold L. Ickes, the Pro
gressive National Committeeman from
Illinois.
This statement, which Is iu printed
form, Is the first out and out attack
upon tlustlce Hughes's position that has
come from the Progressive headquar
ters. While In the nature of a personal
statement made by Mr. Ickes, there Is
every Indication that It was carefully
prepared with the sanction and approval
of Mr. Perkins and the other leaders.
Here Is the statement:
''The question is constantly being
asked. 'Can Heiiubllcans and Progres
sives unite on Justice Hughes for Presi
dent?' "The question cannot lie answered
unless another question is answered be-
fore the nominations are made: 'What
does Justice Hughes stand for'."
"Certainly the Progressives will not
nominate Justice Hughes without know
ing his position on the vital Issues of
, the da.). Ceitalnly no agreement can
be readied between representatives of
the two turtles to nominate hlin prior
to a pudmc formal statement of his
position. Nor will the Progressives be
willing to accept any nominee upon a
satisfactory Republican platform with-
nit Knowledge that the nom nee Is the
embodiment of that platform. The pos
sibility of a Joint nomination of Jus
tice Hughes by Republicans and Pro
gressives siems therefore a remote con
tingent v
I'hIL III silence Harmful.
"To those espousing the candidacy of
Justice Hughes It should be uolnted out
that he alone Is responsible for the
growing unlikelihood of consideration of
his name. The excuse for his silence
offered Is that he must maintain tho
dignity of the Supreme bench. Hut blH
silent candidacy Is us harmful to tho
dignity of the bench as though he weie
not uumli upon the Issues of the day
and Involves dangers to lhe safety, wel
fare and honor of America which would
concern tho people far more than the
Judicial dignity of any man or court.
Justice Hughes is not blind or deaf
to the active work being done In his
b.-half. The fact that he Is willing to
iccept the benefits of this work with
iiuiiit of the responsibilities suggests a
greater Intent lu his personal fortunes
than lu the well being of either tho
Supreme Court or of the United States,
'If he Is n candidate should he not
resign from the bench and announce his
lKisltlon on the great national and lit-
ti inatlonal problems pressing for solu
tion" If he Is not u candidate should
he not announce that he will not accept
nomination ami so end the use of
his name as a screen to cover the work
of political manipulators?
'To lue the excuse of Judicial dlcnltv
to avoid expressing opinions which must
alienate some of his Inharmonious sup-
porteis nnu avoid giving up a life posi
tion until safely assured of a nomina
tion reflects little credit cither on the
Supreme Court or the candidate.
Question of Propriety.
'Justice Hughes broke his tllence re
cently with his secretary's statement
denying the authority of an utterance
apparently favorable to CoJ. Roosevelt,
If the Judicial dignity Is not Impaired by
a statement unfriendly to a rival can
didate could not a statement be given
cut with equal propriety stating the can
didate's position on the questions of the
day?
"No one can speak for the choice of
the Progressive national convention, but
I have no doubt, after canvassing the
situation thoroughly with leaders and
delegates from a larg number of the
Statea, that In no circumstances will the
convention Humiliate or Indorse a can
didate for President whoso views are
not fully known and publicly announced
In advance of hH selection.
"The convention will not go If blind.
In my Judgment not even Col, Roose
velt himself could persuade the conven
tion to accept Justice Ilughm or any
other candidate without definite and cer
tain knowledge of his position on vital
Issues,
"In this national emergency pl.itforutH
are of lesser Interest. The man Is all
Important. Justice Hughes Is untrained
nn,t Ine oerieticei! in tntirn.itliin'tl si.
fairs. HIh views on foreign and domes.
t lu questions are unknown. To say
that ho Is tho man for President iu
this tenso situation, when no man or
woman In the nation can state authori
tatively whether he la for pacifism or
preparedness, for Americanism or hy
phenatlsm, for nationalism or section
alism, for truo neutrality or interven
tion, or on what side he stnnds of any
great public Issue, seems a pionounce
ment of pure folly.
"On the face of the present situation
Justice Hughes Is platnly Impossible of
consideration for the Progressive, nonil
nation and there seems no reasonable
expectation of any change lu the rltua.
tlon before the ProgrcFslvu convention
mkea Ita choice."
T. I. or Jurist, Progressives
Say, but Latter Must
"Speak Out."
DECLAIM DANGER OF
STAMPEDE IS PASSED
Root. Knox, Burton, Fnir
linnks. Fail to Make
Headway.
SH.XS OF HARMONY
SEEN IN THE FIELD
Ifoosevolt still Holds Kvy
JHiodu Island Delegation
for tlie Justice.
Ciilituo, June 4. .Statements by
Progtesslve leader to-night made It
clear that of all the candidates now In
the field only c0, Hoosevelt and Jus
tice Hughes will 1. acceptable to the
Hull Mooters, nnd the latter only in
the event of his publicly subscribing
to the views un Ameilcnnlsni and pre
paredness held by the Progressives.
These statements vveu, regarded us
Intended to eliminate the so-called
favorite sons from the iioriilnutlon
n.ce. They were taken nlso iu un In
dication that the Progressives were
swinging around to the Men uf ac
cepting Justice Hughes, providing ha
declares himself on the lsues of the'
day.
The Republic-tin leaders to-day were
marking lime waiting fur n deflr.lt"
hint from Col. Roosevelt as to what
candidate other than himself ho unit
the Progressive party will indorse.
Such nn intimation in nil probability
will .determine the lit publican nomi
nee. The Moose loatkrs' attitude to
night ."umewhat clarifies the situation.
Annll Word Priiiu T. It.
Hut If Mr. Itonst'Vt'lt fails tu disclose
a preference In iidvnnce .mil he and Ills
friends inslt upon attempting to force
tho Colonels name upon lhe Republi
can convention there will be .mother
bitter light between the Roosevelt
forces and the so-called (.lid (itiard of
the Republican party.
Republican leadeis assert now with
confidence that Roosevelt will nm have
votes enough to win the Republican
nomination They .ire satislitil, too,
that he cannot under any circum
stances stampule the convention. The
lusk that the big Republican chiefs
liuvo assigned to llii'insi'lves is to con
vince the Colonei and his follower.!
that these are hard, cold, Indisputable
facts. Thov believe that when they
have once proved to the Roosevelt
people that there Is no chance of the
Colonel being nominated by the Repub
licans the way will be paved for mi In
formal understanding iu advance lu
regard to the common nominee for
President.
V eto Power Willi 'I'. It,
In oilier woiils. lhe Mtuattun lure Id
resolving itself mute and more into
one where Roosevelt will posset a
practical vein powei nvei the Republi
can nominee. All ..f the Hepiililiean
leaders aie for li.u iiionv . They are
willing to make almost any racrllkn
save the acmni nomination of Mr.
Roosevelt in oiilir 'o bring about a
peaceful amalgamation of the two
wings of the Reptililii ,in p.irtj.
So earnt-t and deep seated is this
drslie to get together th.it the Repub
lican leadci.s lire pr.ii.iiallv willing
to take all) ranitidine save Mr Roose
velt who will be I'litiiin in i.iriv the
support of the l'iogreslve p.utv
Who this man will tin is alniOKt ns
uncertain to-mght as It has been a
nnu time since tho i (invention hoal.s
began tu assemble In Chicago ,1ns.
tlce lluglie.t is still leading the Held by
un Impressive margin, but doubt us to
I'ol Roosevelt's nttltudu toward him
has added an uncertain element which
Is disconcerting to Hughes) supporters.
Mr Roosevelt's followers are not yet
re.ulv to concede the statements matin
by I! (. P. leaders that the Colonel's
nomination by tho Republicans U now
out of tlie question. The Progressives
wero busy to-day throwing out hints
that Roosevelt never would accept
Hughes, When pinned down, the Roose
velt follow eis made no pretence of
speaking with any authority, the general
Impression being that they wero making
a final attempt to hold a threat of tin
Colonel's disfavor over the beads of the
Republicans without lu any way nctuill
committing Mr. Hoosovclt to a court"
I of opposition to Justice Hughe:
I'lle January Stand,
While tlilt show of opposition was ap
pearing on the surface, other develop
ments Indicated morn strongly io.da
thnn on any other occasion that tit"
Progressive lenders were thinking seii
miHly of lhe possibility of Indorsing
Mr. Hughe- In the event of his nomina
tion. Theie W however, one point on which
the Progi cs-dves Insist they will nevi '
surrender and that Is In regard to the
principle enunciated In the slaleinei i
Inst .lanuarv by the Progressive Nn
tloual i 'ofiinltlee, which said
li I In thin turning point In the worlds
I history we will notxtllck on dcUibj
at
51K
