?v.
The Famous Briggs
S c His J mm liable Cartoons on
The T.-D. Sporting Page
Gth YEAR
VOIiL'MK ?e
,\rniiicii irm
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1916.?TEN PAGES.
WK WHICH
P\(iK 7
lVAIR
Sketches From Life
See Temples Human Interest
T.-D. Pictures Daily
PRICE. TWO CENTS
ROWING BELIEF
WONT NAME T. R.
Many of Coloners Closest
Friends Hold to
This View.
Widespread conviction
AMONG PARTY LEADERS
iughes Regarded as Man Who
Can Bring Progressives
Back Into Fold.
!AV NOT KVTCN" WIN NOMINATION
ituation Which This Condition
Present* Is l'nprece
drnted.
f HICAOO, June 4.?There is .'i grow
ler conviction to-nlfiht ntnonc both
.epublican and Progressive leaders as
?rnble?| here for the national conven
?ns that Colonel l'.miH^velt will not
nowtnat*d by the older party. No
f.;ipr>n or explanation lu offered, but
linplis ih'i.?c who hold to this view
>,A Tinny ?>f tin'* Colonel's closest
jr lends, who. none the l'-ss. are n'>t
I ivirtr up the fluh'
Th<? leaders who t:ik?? this view of
be situation pMfin t-> think that .Tus
j'.'-e H uehen Is the man who ? ould
?rinp the Hepublban and Progress!
?wrtlcs together. and present a solid
ront to the Hemocratic opposlltlon,
veti though they a re not convinced
hat th<? justice rati win the noml
<: i ion
The situation which this condition
[?resent? is unprecedented. None of
^ e leader? on th<* cr?und professes
? have any 1 de a of what will happen
|t ^'.s notable that all the speculation
f.tr has been principally amone the
? aders. probably less than fifty of
? em. and that the delegate* have ha'l
"rv tittle part 5rl |t r?ittlc nvire
!? ?*! half th< <i?-l'-K? t?-c to the lie
ib'I<-an convention had reached ?"ht
? '?o to-night Thore who are here
e ijncerta:n of 11 io attitude of oth?'r
?n from their States.
sum>i:\ i;i.i mi i.n havk
piioc;hi:ssivi; no.mi>atio.n
rt h-einc'l cot tain that Colonel
??lt cwuld have tlie Progressive
. 'initiation at once if In: would fay the
vord and still leave the way open to
vitlidraw his candidacy if the Hepub
an convention nominated a man
\h?>n he was willing to support.
One faction among the I'roprcPBlvcs
nominalim; Colonel Roosevelt
th?* first da> ?? i the convention and
- hen await the action of the Hepubli
?ns Another faction would prefer to
v 4' no nomination until after it was
ttiown what the Republicans imposed
.. do
On every hand to-night there Is spec
ilatlon as to what the members of th<"
? Id Guard will do if they succeed in
Vf^atinc Colonel Roosevelt f_>r the
vur.ination; whether they would g > the
i*. hole distance and nominate a man of
heir number, mjeli a.* Hoot. Fairbanks,
CV? .-li.s or Burton; or whether they
votild attempt to conciliate rhe Pro
gressives by < lionsirm .i man whom thr
utt'-r umrlit support The name of
liIMtce Huglu ^ is the une that
ids been brought forward so fat as
laving Bu? h possibilit o .
Amonc the rank and tile of the lie
tiibllcans there are indications of a
???nutne effort to draw the Progressives
?ack into the old party. Apparently
.11 fictions lettrned a lesson from the
iisastroiis ronsoi)ueiH'i\s following a
-1 ?l it four years ago, and as a result
lothini-' is heard in the nature of
? raggadocto or defiance The supporters
? f candidates familiarly called "favorite
.'?ns" are ftrrn in their arguments, but
wft Inclined to a f;tr greater degree
J un ordinarily to oxtoll their catuli
;i.!te?- without detracting from others.
I'iKK POSITIVE POSITION"
At;AI\ST ItOIISKVKI-T
Mom of the delegates who came in
! o - d;?y were of the element that stood
??it for party solidarity In 1012. and. a!
ihough some of them speak without
jr.ncor of Colonel Uooscvelt, they take
i positive puaition against his can
lidacy. \\ hile they contend that his
iomina tion is Impossible, they agreo
hat. the influence of his supporters
nay he paramount in naming the can
lidate and shaping the platform. Many
it them are willing to concede that ln
ismuch as their first desire Is a united
Ktrty, they are willing to go to the
?acrlrtce of letting Colonel Jtoosevelt
lick the candidate if that will Insure
tarmony among the Republicans and
* in the support of the Progressives.
Those who are opposing nominating
lustlce Hughes lay their principal com
? l.iint against his failure to announce
?is position on current Issues. This
' iticlsm comes from both ltepublicans
uid Progressives. There was a wide
tpread report to-night that Colonel
itoosevelt himself had declared that he
vonld not support the Justice unless
?te made such a statement. The Pro
ressivc leaders here made no sccret of
Llieir intention to demand a satlsfac
'?r.v pronouncement before they would
rive their support.
Supporters of Hughes contended that
i he was nominated by the ltepublicans
ic eould bo depended upon to send a
elegtam of acceptance that would meet
with the approval of delegates. Kven
some of the Progressives ngreed that
Uiey could not hope for nn advatico
?statement from Mr. Hughes, in view of
the fact that he never has admitted
that he was a candidate. Some of them
ivent so far as to say that if he was
ominated by the ltepublicans and im
mediately declared his position in a
satisfactory manner, that the Progres
sives, with the consent of Colonel
Koosevelt, would indorse the justice.
The Hughes antagonists, however,
profited hy the fact that there is no
(Coiiilnucd on Third X'ageTj"
t
I Wikon at Exercises
for Southern Dead
-
Enthusiasti cally Re cciVcd When
He Makes Unexpected Ap
pearance at Arlington.
WASHINGTON. June 4.?President
Wilson attended the memorial exercise."
held in the Confederate section of Ar- j
llngton National Cemetery to-day. but j
jilld nut speak. HIa appearance wan un
expected, as he h;id previously an- j
nounccd that he would i>? unable to |
j attend. Ilo ?a? enthusiastically re- i
i celved by a largo crowd of Southern
| ers.
The exercises wcr? impressive in
their simplicity. Senator Vardaman.
orator of the occasion, paid tribute to |
the Confederate soldier and the self- .
sacrificing womfn of the South. De
fending the right of the Southern ;
States to secede, he declared the answer 1
to the question "Js it well that the
! Confederacy failed?" rested with the
future, and tho way th" general gov. ;
tinment used its power. He said he
would ru-lher be a free citizen of a
; democracy like Switzerland than "the j
slave of n militarism such as Germany."
A beautiful floral cross was unvell
j ed at the base of the Confederate
monument, after which flowers were
.str<*\vn over the graves of the Souths
1 'lead, including that of General Joseph
Wheeler, the Confederate hero, who
fought under the Stars and Stripes in
the Spanish-American War.
Secretary and Mrs. Daniels occupied
scats at the speaker's platform be
sl'le the President. The United States
Marine Hand played during the exer
! cises. which were under the auspices
of the Confederate Veterans' Associa
tion. the Sons of Confederate Veterans, j
the United Daughters of tho Confeder- j
ney. and the Southern Relief Society of
Washington.
GREEK FARMER EXECUTED .
Trench Put to Death .Mnn Who De
M'rlbr* Some Sninll Sklrmlnhen In
I.etfer to Friend.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
ZURICH. June 4.?The Athens cor
respondent of the "Neut Zuerlchter
Zeltung" states that recently a Greek
farmer from the border town of Tser
narika was arrested, sentenced to death
and executed by the. French, because
ho described some small skirmishes In
which the allies came out second b*st
In a letter to a friend serving In the
(Jreek army.
The Greek Foldier to whom the let
: ter was addres&ed was also arrested,
tried by a French court-martial and
sentenced to be. shot, but General Sar
rall pardoned and released him when
I the Greek government threatened to
i break with the entente. Prime Minister
; Skouloudls and the Greek military au
thorities tried t"> keep the affair se
1 cret, bui it became known throughout
i Macedonia and in the capital and
| created Intensi- bitterness ag.iinst the
] ull!*?
GI FT ST 0 ED UC ATI 0 N
Appropriation* Mnde by firnrriil Hoard
Include J3.1,0(W for Hampton
Inatit ute.
NKW YORK, June 4.?The Gtmeral ,
Kdueation Hoard announced to-day
that at its annual spring meeting this |
>o.ir It made appropriations amount
ttiK to 57SH.9S0 for educational ntid j
research work Appropriations in- I
i eluded "Joker College. Ilartsvllle. S. ?**.,!
$5<i.t?oO; Hampton Institute. Hampton, \
Va , S'Jo.onu; Tuhkepee Institute. Tus
Uegee, Ala.. V-5.000; Mayesville Indus
trial School. Mayesville. S. $1,0?'0
For the equipment of normal schools 1
for negroes In North Carolina. $1,050 j
whs set aside; for the equipment of !
county training schools for negroes, j
,$10,000; fnr State agents for white |
rural schools, J40.SOO; for State agents J
for negro rural schools. $34,500.
WOMEN TAKE~PLACE OF MEN
Host Striking Change Par to War, Say?
.fumes Carnegie, Just Hack
From Kuroiie.
NKW YORK. June 4.?James Car
iii-gle, inspecting engineer for thi- Jn-:
ternatlon&l Mercantile Marine, returned
to-day on the American liner New York,
with his wife and (laughter from a
two months' vacation in Kngland. lie
said the most striking change due to
the. war was the extent to which wom
en are taking the place of men In tho
most arduous work. He told of a fac- i
tory at Kirkcaldy in which 100 women
| wore employed, some of them working
as stokers. The New York brought flf>2
passengers.
| "COCK OF THE ROCK" HERE !
Only lib i' Specimen of Hare Bird Cap- J
lured for American .Museum of
XuturHl History.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.] ;
NKW YORK, June 4.?A rare bird, j
known as "Cock of the Rock," and said i
to be the only live specimen ever ;
brought to this country, arrived here j
to-day on the steamer Guiana. It was j
captured by Professor C. XV. Beebo in |
I?emerar for the American Museum of I
Natural History.
"Cock of the Rock" is about the. size |
of a full-grown parrot, and is dls- |
tinguished by n crest and arm feath- j
ers, and is worth several hundred dol- j
la rs.
MRS. THOMSON~T0~ATTEND
i
!
Daughter of Speaker Clnrk Will fie j
One of Spectators at Republi
can Convention.
WASHINGTON. June A.? Mrs. James j
M. Thomson, daughter of the Speaker j
and Mrs. Champ Clark, will attend the j
Chicago convention. This will be tho j
fifth national convention Mrs. Thomson !
has attended. She will leave Washing- ;
ton to-morrow night for Chicago, where
she will bo joined by her husband,
fames M. Thomson, a New Orleans pub
lisher.
Germans Hurled Back in Drive
to Force Defenders From
Fort Vaux.
GET TEMPORARY FOOTHOLD
Thrown Out of Trench and Fur
ther Attacks Stopped by
Curtain of Fire.
The recion of Vaux and Damloup.
northeast of Verdun, ha* been the
seen*? of further futile attempts of the
Germans to pierce the French lines.
All the attacks wero j>ut down by the
French fire, except a night attack be
tween Damloup an<l Fort Vaux, where
the Germans obtained n foothold in
French trenches. From these, how
fever, they were Immediately driven out
by a counterattack.
The Canadian troops and thr Ger
mans have been battling? fiercely the
^ pres salient. 1 he German guns open
ed up several days aero, deluging tlie
Canadian positions and the surround
ing territory with shells. Then the
German infantry, advanced along an
extended front of almost two miles,
capturing trenches. In a series of coun
terattacks In which bomb and bayonet
played an important part, the Cana
dians regained most of the lost cround
and have reorganized their positions.
Oft the Russian front violent artillery
duels arc going on in the Bessarablan
and Volhynian sectors. Several Rus
sian infantry attacks against the Aus
trians were repulsed.
The Italians in the region of Ar
sier? are holding the Austrians from
further advances in the desperate
struggle that is going on in this sec
tor.
The bombardments are still heavy on
the other sector of the A astro-Italian
front.
Accordinu to unofficial advices from
Saloniki. General Snrrai!, the French
commander, has declared martial law
in the entire zone occupied by the en
tente allies, and the allied troops have
taken over the telegraph offices, th?
port and custom-house at Saloniki.
(.Kit.MAX ASSA1 I.T? CUKCKIOI)
l?V FItK.YCH (TKTAI.V OF FIRE
1'AlllS, June 4.?Several attempts by
the Germans last night and this morn
ing to turn the French positions at
Fort Vaux, on the Verdun front, from
the southeast, were unsuccessful, the
War office announced this afternoon.
The night attack* resulted in their
gaining a foothold in the French
trenches ir. the ravine between Dain
loup and Fort Vaux. but they were
immediately driven out l\v a counter
attack. The assault this morning wan
checked by the French curtain of lire.
The text of the afternoon statement
is as follows:
"On the right bank of the Meuse
there was hand-grenadte fighting dur- !
ing the night west of Thiaumont farm. 1
"At the close of the day yesterday, i
after violent bombardment, the enemy j
made several attempts to turn Fort
A atix from the southeast. At S o'clock
they launched a powerful attack int?> ,
the ravine between Damloup and the J
fort, which won for them a foothold in i
our trenches. Our counterattack im
mediately ejectcd the enemy complete
ly. A second German attack this morn
ing. directed against the same point,
was checked by our artillery fire.
,f>n the left bank of the Meuse n,,; :
on the rest of the front there was the
usual artillery activity on both sides'*
Midnight official: "In the Argonne j
the Germans made an attempt against i
one of our small pe.nt? at Courtos- I
haussees, but were repulsed.
ACTIVITY OF Alflll.l.Kiiv
again iiecomes i yte.vse
-To the left of the Meuse the uc
tivlty of iii?. artillery of both sides)
i.giiin became intense during the day i
in the region of hill a04. Our barrage \
fire checked evident preparations fori
eHack in the German trenches.
"To the right of the Meuse the Ger- '
mans continued to bombard our posi
tions in the region from Vaux to Dam
loup, their fire being especially violent
against Fort Vaux. Towards 3 o'clock
in the afternoon the Germans made an
attack against the slopes of the Fumln !
Woods, northwest of the fort, but were
Hopped by our machine gunfire.
"Our heavy artillery inflicted great i
damage on three German batteries In
the Oaurleres wood. Our guns shelled
and dispersed some German concentra
tions j,, ti,e Caillette wood.
* Aviation? towards noon a group of
.erman aviators threw some bombs
against the city of Toul, killinv ten
person.-, and wounding about ten The
material damage inflicted was not
Important. They did not succeed
hitting any military establishments
Our hunting squadron at Toul t->ok
the air Immediately and vigorously
pursued 'he German machines, bring
ing do.vn ono of them into our lines
at Sanzeny. Two other German aero
planes. being hit by the fire from our
aviators' machines guns, were obliged I
to land abruptly within the German
lines "
niMII.IX RKI'ortTS PROGRESS
roil GERMAN DRIVE
f-'r.TvLIN*, Juno 4 t{yiu London) ?The
German drive on the Verdun front, be
tweea '.he Caillette wood and Dam
loup, northeast of the fortress is
progressing favorably for the attack- '
Ing forces, the. War Office announce.!
to-day. The capture of more thun 600 ;
prisoners and four machine guns is i
reported.
West of the Mouse a French attack I
m-ar hill 304 was repulsed.
Attempts by the British to regain th.? !
ground they recently lost to the Oer- j
mans near Yprex, on the Flandar*,'
front, were fruitless. The text of the
statement by army headquarter* \a AS
follows:
--WcHtorn front: The British directed
(.Continued on Second"l'ugo.) J
GERMAN LOSSES IN FIGHT
GREATER THAN BRITISH
The Republican Hen Is On!
WILL ASK FOB LEVY B.
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA
Attorney-Genera! Pollard to Apply
to 1\ S. Tribunal To-Day in
l)el?t Case.
POSTPONEMENT IS WANTKD
Oflicials of Kittle Mountain State Ho.
sire Action in Case Deferred lull!
After HleotIon, as It Has I'laycd
Considerable Part in Politics.
The State legal departments of Vir
ginia an?l West Virginia will clash'
again before the United .States Supreme
Court to-day in u new action growing
out of t>?#? famous debt ease. In behalf
of Virginia, Attorney-General Pollard
will apply to the court for a writ of
execution directing the marsha.1 of that
court to levy upon the property of the
State of West Virginia for the satis
faction of the <12.3513,929.50 judgment
rendered against it on .lunc M, 1915.
deports from West Virginia indicate
that Attorney-General A. A. Lilly will
ask the Supreme Court to grant a post
ponement. Mr. l.illy Is a candidate for
Governor in a spirited contest which
will be decided at a primary to-mor
row. Governor Hatfield is a candidate
for the United States Senate and his
success or failure will be determined In
the same primary, lloth. it is under
stood, arc anxious that the case be
postponed until after the election.
The debt case, while it does not
figure as a sharply-drawn issue in tho
West. Virginia election, has attained
in some respects to that dignity. Op
posing candidates have made capital
out of the adverse decision rendered bj
the Supreme Court against West Vir
ginia under the regime of Governor
Hatfield and Attorney-General Lilly,
and, it is stated, have sought to foster
the impression that the present muddle
over this matter Is in part chargeable j
to their management.
With Attorney-General Pollard will
appear former Attorney-General W
Anderson, of Lexington: Randolph Har
rison. of Lynchburir, and John '5. John
son, of Philadelphia, and Sanford Mob
inson. of New York, counsel f>?r the
bondholders.
worn) ski,t. i'itoi>i-:itT\
to ,iiakJt iMiMiivr <;oor>
If the Supreme Court grants Vir
ginia's petition, it will become the duty
of the marshal of that court to sell; 1st
the manner prescribed l>> law, enough
of West Virginia's public property, to .
make good the judgment. Another ex- i
pedlent would bo to attach the funds
In the State treasury. Klthcr proceed
ing would be withoiit parallel In Amerl- :
can history.
Wh.lc Attorney-General Pollard in
satisfied that tho Supreme Court has1
ample authority to enforce its ruling, j
other authorities seriously question tho ?
power of the court to go so fur as to j
sell the property of a sovereign State
to satisfy a Judgment. Former Chief
Justice Fuller, when this objection was
raised nine years ago In the considera
tion of this very case, replied In suh
(Contlnued on Second i'atjo.)
SCHIFF ENDS AFFILIATION
WITH "JEWISH POLITICS"
Hereafter Will Do Work for His
Race as a Private Indi
vid mil.
RF.Sti.VTS UlTTtiR ATTACK
{?'eel- That Me Deserves Better at
Hands of Coreligionists After
Tilings He Has Hone for Them.
(iiven Vole of Confidence.
NEW YOIJK, June 1.?Jacob fl.
.ScltifT. known 1 ?> .lows throughout the
world as one of the leaders of their
race, appeared :o-day before the nn
nual convention of the Kehlllah, or
.Jewish community of New York, and
told the delegates he had determined to
break all his afllliaSion with what
might be termed "Jewish polities," and
hereafter to do his work for his race
as a private individual.
.Mr. Scliilt said he. had been bitterly
attacked in the Jewish press heeauso
of the misquotation of his remarks at
The Central Jewish Institute two weeks
ago. At that time ho deprecated the
proposal that Yiddish be spoken by
Jews in all public places. He said to
day he then had declared his belief that
if tlie "Jews of Russia and the Jews of
1'oland had not been kept separate to
themselves by discriminatory laws, the
prejudices of persecution to which they
had been subjected would not have
reached the stage to which we all re
?ret it has unfortunately come."
i:\i'i:(Ti:i) attack ihocaisk
OM-: IIA II HI-: ION TH It 10 AT K.N Id)
Mr. Schiff said ho had expected an |
attack against him because one. had
been threatened if he <1 id not give up
his opposition to the American Jewish
Congress, but he added that he felt ho
deserved better at the hands of his co
religionists after the work he had done'
for them
It was unbelievable, he declared, thai
he should be accused of having de'
elated the Jews of Russia and Poland
were themselves responsible for theit |
persecution. He said that for twenty
live years bo had "single-handedly
struggled against the invasion of th<i
American money markets by ibe Rus
sian government, and have staved them|
off" lie. pointed out that r.o. tail in?'
sisted to ;lus President of the United1
States that the treaty with Vlussi v
shot!., t.e abrogate!, because he know
?hat ' .viunever Ru:;?.la was compelled
to oj .;ii its doors free to the Jew, to
:he American Jew, and to the Jew of
all :n:'ons, it will n . be able to eon-!
Untie the restrictions ngaln?t its own
.lew, and to continue ihe palo of settle
ment, which is at the bottom of all mis
fortune "
His accusers, Mr. f?ehiff asserted. in*
eluded "men who are here on sufferance,
men who are refugees hero because
unfortunately for them, ?r.d I am sorry
for It, they eannct reiur'i to their homes j
at present, as 'rton-'ed."
"They write to the Jewish papers,"
he continued, "that I have furnished, by
my address, munition to the Russian
(.Continued on Second PagcT)
!will becin work to-day
! ON REPLY TO GARHANZA
President and Secretary Lansing Not
to Yield to Demand for
AVit hdrawitl.
OFFICIALS ASSEMBLING DATA
Secretary Baker Confers With Chief
Executive on .Mexican Situation
and Disposition of Troops?l*er
sliing-Guvini Meeting Friendly.
WASHINGTON, June 1.? President
Wilson probably will take up with
Secretary Lansing to-morrow the ques
tion of framing a reply to General Car
ranza's new demand that the American
troops !>?.? withdrawn from Mexico.
officials have obtained no indication
yet as to the form the answer will
take, further than that it will not
yield to the insistence that General
Pershing's men retire across the boun
dary, hut they are assembling data on
;ill of the points raised In the Mexican
note to have the information available
for use as soon as Mr. Wilson's desires
are Known.
Hecause of what are deemed offen
sive references and statements In the
note, some officials think the reply
should he sharp In character and
carry a rebuke for the seeming dls- j
courtesy. Others suggest, however, j
that because the communication pre- |
fanes its unusual utterance with the
statement that it proposes to he entire-!
ly frank and hopes the sensibilities j
of the United States government will'
not be wounded, that the reply will j
ignore the discourteous passages and .
confine itself to refuting misstate
?iients, and a firm expression .of tho
intention of the United States to keep'
the expedition in Mexico until Car
ranza has demonstrated his abllilv to j
control tlie situation below the border.;
SKCIIKTAIt V OK WAIt ItAKKK
COM'KltS WITH THK I'HKSIIJKXT
Secretary Baker conferred with the i
President yesterday on Mexican ques
tions. but the particular aspects dis
cussed were not disclosed. It is known
that the results of the local confer
ence on Friday between Generals Per->
shine: and Gavira were not mentioned ,
Presumably Mr. llaker outlined the ait-'
nation of the American troops and the j
dispositions of the Oarranza forces |
about them. Officials of the general |
staff havo studied every phase of Gen- 1
era! Pershing's situation, with the re
sult that they feel supreme confidence
lit his ability to dofend himself against '
any attack that possihU could he made I
upon him, and without exposing his
nun to great danger
While details of the l'ershing-Gavira j
conference have not been made known j
it is known that no suggestion for an
agreement as lo local troop disposi
tions was made, the conversation con-j
slsting for the most part in statements
by the Mexican field commander of i
what steps he was taking to round up
bandits. The real purpose of the meet
ing, It was understood, was to provide
against the danger of clashes between
<Goruinuod on-Second rago7)
ADMIRALTY CLAIMS
TOTAL OP EIGHTEEN
SHIPS DESTROYED
Nothing to Add To or Sub
tract From Original Eng
lish Announcement.
PESSIMISM HAS BEEN
GREATLY LESSENED
List of Casualties Among Officers
Shows Few Escaped From
Lost Vessels.
FULIj STOltV NOT YET TOLD
Two Battleships, Six Cruisers. Nino
Destroyers and Submarine of
Kaiser's Fleet Sent Down.
LONDON. June 4.?The British Ad
miralty to-night Issued a statement
saying there were the strongest grounds
for the belief that the British navy
in the battle with the German? off
Jutland last week had accounted for
n total of eighteen German men-of
war, and that there was nothing to
add to or subtract from the original
announcement of the British losses.
The statement gave the German
losses as two battleships, two Dread
nought battle cruisers, four light
cruisers, nine torpedo-boat destroyers,
and a submarine.
The pessimism which prevailed aa
a result of the Admiralty's original
statement of losses, which now is con
sidered to have been needlessly candid
and conservative in underestimating
the extent of the German losses as
; compared with those of Great Britain,
I has been greatly lessened by the latest
j statement.
j TWO MO UK BATTLESHIPS
REPORTED AMONG LOST
A dispatch from Copenhagen r.ayn
rumors are current in Huinburg that
two additional German warships than
I those announred !n the German com?
j muitieation?th?* battleship Wcstfalen
| and the battle cruiser Lutzow?were
sunk in the hat tie. A wireless dispatch
received here on Saturday from Berlin
said the German Admiralty admitted
the loss of the Westfalcn.
The. Admiralty's statement to-night
, declares that the German losses in
| the tight were not only relatively, hut
| absolutely greater than those of the
? British. Maintaining its practice of
caution, the Admiralty still refrains
1 from giving the nnmes of the lost Ger
1 man ships.
i The oflicial list of the casualties
I among officers chows that hardly a.
. single oJlice.r of the line cscaped from
, the British cruisers sunk In battle. An
I additional casualty list of petty officers
shows that, forty-three of them were
saved from the Queen Mary, Invin
cible, Fortune. Ardent and Shark. None
was saved from the Indefatigable, De
fense. Black Prince, Tipperary. Tur
bulent. Nomnd or Nestor.
The list gives the names of sixty
five killed aboard the Warrior, and of
twenty-seven men wounded. On the
other ships engaged In the fight, 115 men
were killed and eighty-five wounded
iVO FAILURE IX STRATEGY",
SAYS LOUD BERESFOnn
Admiral Lord Beresford in an inter
view to-day, while contending strong
ly for the view that there was no
failure in the British strategy, and
' that Vice-Admirnl Beatty won a bril
liant success, though it was dearly
bought, declares that the only mistake
i made was by the Admiralty in allowing
i the Germans to get first in the field
with the news of the battle, or ns he
! puts it, with "impudent fabrications."
' Otherwise, said Lord Beresford. no
fault can be found with the Admiralty.
The statement follows:
"t'ntil the commander-in-chief has
I had time to consult with the officers
; engaged and to write a full dispatch,
any attempt to give a detailed his
tory of the naval engagement, which
began on the afternoon of May 31
ami ended on the morning of June 1,
would evidently be premature. But
I the results are uui'e plain.
"The grand tlcet came iti touch with
the German high sous fleet at .1:30
o'clock on the afternoon of May 31. This
leading ships of the two fleets carried
on a vigorous tight, in which battle
cruisers, fast battleship* and subsid
iary craft all took an active part.
"The losses were severe on both
sides, but when the main body of the
British fleet came in contact with the
German high seas fleet a very brief
period sulll.-ed to compel the latter,
who lutd been severely punished, to
seek refuge In their protected waters.
1 ills maneuver was rendered possi
ble by the low Visibility and mist, and
although the grand fleet now and then
was able to fict into momentary con
tact with their opponents, no continu
ous action was possible
PI IIS PIT |S COXTIMKl)
IWTIL I.KillT \VIIOLLV FAILS
"The\ continued the pursuit until the
light wholly failed, while the British
destroyers were able to mak? a suc
cessful attack on the enemy during tho
night
"Meanwhile, Admiral Sir John Jelll
coe. having driven the enemy to port,
returned to the main scene of action
and ucoured the sea in search o< 41#
aided vessel*.
"By noon of the next day, the 1st
