Hughies? Rooelt? X Nj ONTAGUE
Or MOUEU LTN . OWL
-follow the fortunes Of 311 the 1IELTIINIG11 ~m IF- fAw OtERh ect
favoritmi arnd favorite Pons at FRANK WARD O1MALLICT
the Republican convention.-Ii -1 fw ther s of th a oering t
deta.l T HC wisoflhe overnth
in The Herald ovnie
lot !E.RA LD IIN THE HERALD
INO0. 3517. WEATHER-FAIL CWASHINGTON,_D. C., MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1916. ONE *CENT.
. 1 P. NOMINEE
DEPENDS UPON
CHOICEOF T. R.
Colonel May Name Candidate
Providing He Eliminates
Himself, Is View.
HIS ANSWER AWAITED
While Hughes Leads, Roow
velt Attitude Makes the
Chances Uncertain.
BOTH SIDES HELD BLUFFING
Stampede in Favor of Bull Moose
Leader Not Feared by the "Old
Guard"--Harmony Likely.
48y the Sum News Service.)
Chicago, June 4.-The Republi
can leadcrs are marking time wait
ing for an intimation from Col.
Roosevelt as to what candidfate
other than himself lie and the Pro
gressive party will indorse. Such
:in intimation will in all probability
determine the Republican nominee.
If Mr. Roosevelt fails to disclose
a preference in advance and he and
his friend; insist upon attempting
to force th2 Colonel's name upon
the Rcpu!lIcan convention there
will be another bitter fight between
the Roo,-.it forces and the so
called "Old Guard" of the Repub
lican party.
Stampede Not Feared.
-p'iblian leaders assert now with
oin jWce that Col. Roosevelt will
iot have votes enough to obtain the
Republican nomination They are sat
!fled. too, that he cannot under any
irrumstances stampede the conven
tion. The task that the big figures in
the Republican party have assigned
to themselves is to convince Cot.
Ro0-Ti and his followe rs that tfitse
a17 hard. 'old. inTisp1table facts.
Thy hliee-0 that when they have once
coed the Roosevelt people that
'' no chance of the Colonel be
, oim ated by the Republican con
venti the way will be paved for an
:nforimal understanding in advance In
regard to a common nominee for
Prpsideiit
In other wvords. the situation here
i- resolving itself more and more into
m1e whre Col. Roosevelt will possess
I pract: al veto power over the Re
puhlican nominee. All of the Repub
l-an leaders a for harmony. They
are w1i:g to make almost any sac
ti-lde save the actual nomination of
Mr. Roosevelt in order to bring about
a peaceful amalgamation of the two
wings of the Republican party. So
earrest and deep-seated is this de
re to get together that the Repub
It TINI'ED ON PAGL TWI).
HUGHES MUST SPEAK
OR COLONEL WILL RUN
FY JAMES J. MONTAGUE.
4 isternattonal News Service.)
Chlcago, June 4.-Almost persuaded
that Theodore Roosevelt cannot be put
over as Republican candidate for the
Presidency. his Progressive supporters
made a eharp shift in policy today. They
now propose to put a third ticket in the
field. unless Charles E. Hughes will make
a square-toed pre-convention statement
on preparedness and the international
iltuation.
Tonight the Hughes prospects are little
advanced. Those of Roosevelt are plainly
dwindling. The new aggressiveness of
the Roosevelt men not yet had any
noticeable effect.
MORE MARINES SENT
TO SANTO DOMINGO
The Third Regiment of United States
Marines. commanded by CoL Pendleton,
was today ordered by the Navy Depart
ment to proceed at once from Ban Diego
to New Orleans where they will embark
on the navy transport Hancock for Santo
Domingo. The regiment consists of
about 700 men.
The Hancock. is now at Vera Crus,
but has been ordered at once to New
Orleans.
The re-enforcements will Probably go
direct to the Dominican port of Puerta
Plata, where Caperton landed a large
force at the instance of United States
Minister Russell, who reported that a
force of revolutionists had broken into
the American consulate and robbed it
GZRXAJ HORSE XAmiJG.
TO,000 Treee Arrive at 'T%=ra and
10,000 Marta at Brages,
amstsdam, June 4-Germant cavalry
Is concentrating in great strength be
tween Tournai and Boisuleux, accoding
to a dispatch to the Teieghraff.
At Tournal. 70,000 German troops have
arived. Ten thousand marinee are now
350 Votes for Hughes
Claimed on First Ballot
(By The Dun News Servie..)
Chicago, June 4-Those who
are pushing the Hughes candi
dacy c-mtend that he will have
more than 350 votes on the
first ballot.
Four hundred and ninety
three votes will be required to
nominate in the convention.
The States which are likely to
go for Hughes on the first bal
lot with the votes which each"
will carry are:
Alabama, 9; Arizona, 5;
Arkansas, 7; California, 20:
Colorado, 5: Connecticut, 7;
Florida, 6; Georgia, 5; Kansas,
to; Kentucky, 8; Louisiana, to;
Maine, 12; Mfaryland, 8; Michi
gan, 30; Mississippi, 8 Missouri,
25; Montana, 7; Nevada, 3;
New Hampshire, 4; New York,
37; Oklahoma, 15; Oregon, to;
Rhode Island, to; South Caro
lina, ;; Tennessec, to; Texas,
to; Utah, 8; Vermont, 8; Vir
ginia, to; Washington, 7; Wis
consin, it; Wyoming, 6;
Alaska, 2, and Hawaii,, I.
4.- __ ____
BAKER GIVES
AERIAL PLAN
Outlines Way U. S. Will De
velop Aviation in Forty
State Guards.
$76,000 APPROPRIATION
ASKED TO FURTHER WORK
4 By the International News Service.)
New York. June 4-Federal plans for
developing aviation in cie National
Guards of forty interested States are
contained in a letter sent by Secretary
of War Baker to Alan R. Hawlev, presi
dent of the Aero (Club of Amerl-a, whict
was mad, public today.
The war office has asked Congress for
an appropriation of 376,00, Secretary
Baker announces. This sum will be used
for bt'ying equipment for the militiamen
and paying for the instruction of a num
ber of offic-rm and enlisted men at the
united states Signal Corps Aviation
School. The letter continues:
"Estimates also have been submitted for
f1,0MN* to begin the equipment of such
aero units of the National Guard of the
United States as the War Department
may authorize in the near future.
"After the appropriation becomes
available, should a State make applica
tion to the War Department for the or
ganization of an aero company as laid
down in the tabes of organization U. S.
A. 1911. it would he favorably con
sidered and probationary recognition
granted for a period of one year from
the date of inspection by an officer of
the United States army, provided the
personnel of the units presented for in
spection conforms with the standard of
the regular army, if at least four of
the six officers of the organization are
licensed air pilots and provided there is
available for the use of the company a
suitable flying field and at least one
serviceable aeroplane."
French Smash
German Attacks
Barrier and Mitrailleuse Fire
Balks Efforts at
Verdun.
4By the Sun News Service.)
Paris. June 4.-Preparations were
made by the Germans today for two
attacks on the Verdun front, one on
the west bank of the Meuse, in the
region of Hill 304. and the other
against the Bois Fumin, northwest of
Fort Vaux, on the east bank.
The first of these attacks was stop
ped by the French barrier fire before
it was launched from the German
trenches, while the second, delivered
against the slopes of the wooded
height, was broken down by the
French mitrailleuse fire.
Of a group of German aeroplanes
which bombarded Tout today and were
chased by a French squadron, one was
brought down in the French lines and two
others were seen to alight abruptly
in the German lines.
$2 TAXICAB CHARGE
CAUSES HEART ATTACK
Kansas City. Mo., June 4.-Mrs. Amnanda
Karmaier, of Oklahoma City, arrived at
the Union Station Saturday for a stay
with her brother. Sherman T. Pettigrew,
of Kansas City. Kane.
Mrs. Karmalier asked at the taxicab
stand what the charge would lie to take
herself and her son, Arthur, 10 years old.
to her brother's homes.
"Th'e fae' will be 32," the agent told
her.
Mrs, Karzneler suu~ered an attack of
heart diese.s and at the General Hos
pital where she was taken, she was said
to be in a critlcal condition.
SS,45 to PoeCeest Petst and
Baltimore and Ohio June 5 to 15, liza
ite for return w1a~w~nh
Saloniki Seized by French
While Greek Troops Kneel
In Prayer at Te Deum Mass
(By the International News Nerilce.)
Saloniki, Greece, June 4.-While all the Greek troops in the Saloni&
district were attending a Te Deum mass in celebration of the King's saint day
French troops under Gen. Serrail, assisted by French gendarmes, seized th
city. .
Gen. Serrail immediately declared Saloniki in a state of seige and unde
French rule.
Tremendous excitement has been aroused among the civil population anc
the troops as well. Urgent messages have been sent to the King at Athen
begging determined protest and action. The local Greek authorities af
furious. They declare their intention of endeavoring to retake the city, com
what may.
The French coup was sprung while practically every Greek was attend
ing a great ield mass and the city was at the mercy of the allied troops.
- The French seized the postoffice, occupied the port and took commani
of the prefecture. They also occupied the offices of the chief of police, order
ing that official and the Greek constabulary to leave the city.
The Greek postal and telegraph staffs were ordered to continue work
but are closely supervised by French officers.
The entire system of Greek railways was taken over by the French ant
is being operated under their control for military purposes.
15 Miles of Battle Front
Seen from Shell-Torn Spur
On Notre Dame de Lorette
By JOHN L. BALDERsTU-. of Notre Dnw.. a urely the most interest
Wopyright, 19s. by the nlcCr, Nmracr ig spot in France, unless It be eclipsed
General Headquarters. British Armies b th shell-torn hills about Verduri
n France May 1.-From the stur of Here, a year ago, the tide surged back
Notrc Dame de Loretto. I was told by ward and forward during the great batti,
1wAhirli cost losses that "broke tihe heart
the general commanding the army corps, w c Mone to t ear
the finest view on the western front of I ranlce' according to a Germo
could be obtained in clear weather, and writer who has learned his mistake fronr
he added that no correspondent had Verdun.
1Notri' lDanie etands 3A6 feet above lb4
siacended this commanding position dur- NorDaetnd30fetbveh
isendd the w chmadig notion ecea m valley where the hostile lines run today
n4~ tihe war, which did not decrease my,
Interest. We left our motor far behind, and on its slopes and at its foot I look
it a point where the only sign of war ed, and in vain, for the ruins of Albai
was a long line of British and German St. Nazaire, Souchez, the Sugar Refin
:aptive balloon-. extending on either side ery, and, further to the south, Neuvill
along the bttle lines to the horisen. and St. Vaste. It is useless to look for ruim
frtheyg the neott lines Noo they ho n.an
tome woolly puffs in the sky blossoming for they do not exist. Not only hav
tbout aeroplanes. "If the Boche sees our hundreds of thousands of shells literall
ar from one of his sausages he'll strike pulverized the bricks and masonry o
ere,." .remarked the corps fricer who these places, but after twelve months <
rited as guide, as we clambered out. constant shelling the earth, at least a
By a long walk we reached the top CONTINt'ED ON PAGE EIGHT.
Believe 75,000 Will March
In Preparedness Pageant
The magrt.: ti preparedness that the numbe w aeh a least ro
pared to h, . Washington on ()(A. and there ie every likelihood lbe
Flag Day. June h such that it was the day of the parade will see
recessary for the office force of the corn- line. This does rot take into consid
mittee to work all day yesterday hand- eration the parade units that will ente
lIng the great amount of correspondence from near-by cities. Chairman Gude ha
and checking up the entries of organiza- had Inquiries from various points as
Lions. 1 whether marchers would he permitted t
While no count of the entries was made enter the parade from out-of-town points
it was estimated that those already mad The answers of course, are in the affirm
in writing to the committee involve the atlve. and It is probable that we wil
entry of very nearly 25,0W individuals. not hear from those cities until the mid
Chairman William F. Gude is positive die of the week."
that after the House passes the joint Whole Country Interested.
resolution today, making Flag Day. 1916.
a legal holiday in the District of Colum- Thogthe ress on n
bia, this number will be increased by atWahntncrepdntheonr
tile tbs nmberwil beincrase by at large is being kept advised of the ar.
least 30,000 persons within the next two a
days, tion. The fact that the President of th
"While we are not in a position at this United States will head the parade Or
time to fully determine the number tha foot hs given the demonstration an un
wilt take part in the parade, said Sec
retary Charles J. Columbus. il feel sure CONTINUaD ON PAGE stOUR
Germany's Drive at Verdun
Its Last Card, Says Write
Percy S, Bullen, Ltmerican corresPon- gained by the acquisition of a few hun
lent of thc London Daily Telegraph. ar- dred yards of new territory.
ved in Whington yesterday after e British Hold wuld rted t
vTsit to the British front In France, and awe British In rance now hal
leclared his conviction that the G)ermnans 'hors than 100 miles of thre entiro
aayed their last card on the western Weitern front, or. roughly peakin
rront when they massed every available one-fourth of the entire stretch m1
ian and gun for the gredt offensive at country from the North Sea to t
Verdun. Alps. It Is however, a little mislead.
"Unless something miraculous hap- Ing to Judge the value of an arm:
,ens," he predicted, "the Germans wil a merely by the amount of miles occu
aot even attempt another serious effort to pied because there are many place
1he The fact life tdhe Pesidest wfic
uiin faysbtnilavnene tapped wIs toeade ofad th
foo aeo udr'~ oriiain- tia hagn thtca deosittin, anur
reteary hadvatage Cohubus igh e bue O'NTJED ON PAGE TFUR.
ports' D iv at svaermananuh
Perc Re.eaBule halescn. corespo fgtofn-grac teGrmna
ef he London, ertwil Teheranpf h, ar-~ t oayofcal rieae h
Itea ing condto Curtenhe Cermantsh emnlse a enanucd
layd fther ofte cawrdo curenc bilesterntckt Cmmi
hich wasenethey take very seriu. Cicgabuelee oadeeal
ofinednty-s thmaqsto wom arried hun
Rockdeu to Gve 7,gO toay, han d0cide ostc o theirntar
Wedatern fbrotB Curisro ughspeainc
New one-fourte of-theaentireestretch t
was ade todn for the greatofellier aten conr-rmte ot e ot
Ver duca lBs4o ifst h x ale emaVcoy
"no less o engmiclou Isthap- Cplhg ue4-aihnwp
peons, therou dite the Gmz' easr pew cmligpoth atl nt
prit eve ateptaote seios ffr tort egnrlydsrb t
the firststime, thatttheacottoun thfe an
Alps. ks ~ * I ishowver a ittle uomsla
|TEUTON ATTACKS
I SHATTERED UPON
CANADIAN WALL
'Dominion Troops Repulse In
vaders at Hill No. 60 in
Two-day Battle.
STILL AT DEATH GRIPS
Ily FREDERICK PALMER.
(lnternational News Service.)
British Headquarters. in France
June 3.-Around the famous Hill No
60 and Santuary Wood the Canadiani
have been doing the stiffest fighting
of their experience in the course ol
the last two days' action. They havq
held the entire front which was at
tacked. and unless the attack spreadg
this is entirely their battle.
The German guns had been relative
ly quiet for some days. when sudden
ly they opened up the heaviest bom
bardment any Canadian veteran hai
yet known. using all kinds of guni
from the heavy Howitzers to trenc'
mortars, and not only battering th.
trenhes. but covering a wide area o1
ground in the rear to prevent the
bringing up of supports.
English Guns Reply.
"But it was not this time as it uas
in the earli'r Ibattles of the Ypres sa
lient. when the ;rmans threw three
or four ehells to our one." said at
officer. "The British guns returnei
an equal volume 4 fire on the Ger
mans after they were in our trenches.
Under the support of their gun
fire and after a night of fighting. al
dawn the C'anadians went to the
- ounter-attack. small parties rushing
in at diffe:ent points, hombing ant
-bayoneting their way right and lefi
and before the work was ended the)
had regained nearly all of their front
According to the latest reports frorr
the field the struggle in the maze o.
wrecked trenches continues.
WILSON PLANS
SHARP REBUKE
tReply to Carranza's Note Ex
pected to Contain Strong
Reprimand.
WILL NOT WITHDRAW U. S.
TROOPS FOR SOME TIMI
A sharp reply to Carranza's note wil
be drafted early this week and probabl:
be sent before the Republican nations
convention adiourns. The President att
Secretary of State Lansing will discus
the reply today.
Because of the political motives impute,
to the Administration and the expecte<
attacks on President Wilson's Alexical
policy by Republicans. it has been de
cided to couch the reply In the mos
severe terms and indicate unmistakabl:
that the American troops will not b
withdrawn until peaceful conditions pre
One high official intimated last nigh
that it would be the strongest ditlo
matic document yet drafted by this ad
ministration.
Austrian Drive
In Italy Faib
Reports from -Rome Stat<
Counter-offensive Is Win
ning Lost Ground.
(Special to the International Newi
ServIce and London Daily Telegraph.
Rome. June 4.-The maximum effort o
the Austrians was made on May 30 an
31 and June 1 against the Plateaus c
Arsiero. The Austrians used nine div
sions of reserves. The result was dis
astrous to the Austrians, who suffere
enormous idies.
The Italians succeeded in rapidly con
centrating many $w heavy guns an
large masses of infantry on these plateau
against which, the Austrian offensive wa
shattered.
The Italian counter-offensive began o
June 1 on the right wing and continue
to be extended along the whole ba~ttl
front. The Austrian effort to invad
Italy is regarded as a failure.
AVERS BRITISH PLOTTED)
TO LURE U. S. INTO WMi
(Bly the International News Servie.~
Syracuse. N. Y. June 4.-That Englis
statesmen had been plotting for years be
fore the war to lure the United State
into a military alliance against German
was asserted by Supreme Court Justit
John W. Goff at an Irish memorial mneel
laig tonight.
"Under the guise of peace compact
blood relationship and lingual affilia
tions." he said, "a propaganda organize
abid supported by English secret servic
- money and private Wealth has been ca
zied on for the purpose of securing a
aAmerican anliance in the present wa
KAISER HAR
IN BIG SE
IS CLAD
Official Admiralty St
Germans at Eightee
Reports from
TEUTONS SAID
Arrival of Main Body c
Signal for Quick
Entire
(By the Sam
London, June 4.-The British ad
ment declaring that pending the com
North Sea battle these facts have beel
The German reports of the battle
The German losses were heavier
tion. but positively.
The arrival on the scene of batti
seas fleet was the signal for the Germ
MAKES PLEA
FOR BIG GUNS
Senator Humber, of France,
Declares Artillery Will
Win at Verdun.
GERMAN TACTICS CALLED
"MILLING OF HUMAN LIVES'
(By SENATOR CHARLES Hi'MBER.
OF FRANCE,
ify the internatioaal News Service.)
Paris. June 4.-Nloro than 100 days
have passed sinc- the Verdun battle
opened and it still continues. Persong
who despise the German tactics aj
elementary and say that the Germant
are only stubhorntlv persisting in a mac
enterprise. are mistaken When Germar
military ,ritics reiterate that the onI3
object of this interminable battle is t,
draw the Frenh army to Verdun an(
waste it there. we ought to seriousit
egh what they say and not ecofr
Let us finit h talking about stupic
Istuhborness when it is very probabiy a
case of minute calculation. Instead o1
continuing to dream of grand strategica
and tactical combinations let Ls get 1
Aell Into our heads that this war con.
sists of stagnation. interminable bom.
ardments and lon mechanical milling
iof human lives, and let us feverishl
manufacture the crushing machines that
,grind into the German resenes, that it
biz guns.
The allies' imnmense reserve of meI wi
enable them to teduce the G. rman hope,
to dust as 1ng as we wage a wxar o
attrition 1-y shell fire. It is our urgeni
eduty to supply the ne-esmry uns anic
helle
ZAPATA CREATES TERROR
BY MARCH ON CAPITAL
4By the aUn News %ercrle.)
El Paso. Tex.. June 4 -Con-terna
tion was created along the Mexicar
border and throughout northern Mex
i(o today by news from 31exico CitO
that Emiliano Zapata and his force
are pressing their attacks hard agains
the Mexican capital. which was fol
lowed by confidential orders to th
generals commanding Carrarza force
to hold themselves ini reahmess t<
dispatch south any troops they car
spare if called upon to do so.
The sudden daring of the Zapatis
tag in pressing so close against th<
1I2Mexican capital may result in tho
Mexican troops recently ruhed inte
northern Chihuahua ostensibly to pu
down banditry.
This would greatly relieve th
strain now existing between the Unitec
States and the Carranza governmen
over the question of the withdrawal o
American forces from Mexico.
Wilsons Boom Social Season.
Long Branch, N. J.. June 4.-Social lIfe
is beginning here much earlier than it
former seasons. due to the fact of the se
Slection of Shadowlawn as the summei
aWhite House.
The Washington Hera
Donations For Pr'
Here is an opportunity for yo
paredness parade Jrne 14 the biggi
any city..
a Fill out the blsnk below and mT
v Washington Herald, together with
e will be acknowledged and forwa:
treasurer of the committee in chari
of.... ......................
eof se............to.
Washimrton's preparednes
DEST HIT
A BATTLE,
4 OF BRITISH
atement Places Lass of
n Vessels and Labels
Berlin as False.
TO HAVE FLED
f English Fleet Declared
Retreat of Enemy's
Force.
'ews serme.>
rniralty this afternoon gave out a state
pilation of details of last Wednesday's
I positively established:
are false.
than the British, not merely in propor.
e of the main body of the British high
in fleet to speed back to its base.
Germs=e Severely Punsbaeg.
Prevnous to Sir John Jellicoes ar
rival the German fleet hatf been so
verely punished. Sir John took up the
pursuit. The two main bodies were re
tesatedly in momentary contact, but the
Germans' flight made it Impossible for
the British to bring their full force
Into play.
Darkness put a stop to fte PENit
and then the destroyer fietLlD took
up the chase and successfully attacked
the Kaiser's warships.
Late tonight a German aMmu
Etatement was received hemr aseeang
that the German fleet sun.j be
losses beyond those adntted In pe
terday's official account.
shtV8 Relie.V IM.
While the British admAtraty aoemg
cite positive facts to support ts Sa
Fertion that the German lemms,; we
heavier than the Brtish. it Geclaae.
that "there seems to be the sob'
ground for suDPosing that the fe
lowing units were lost b the a.
mans:
Two battleshps.
Two Dreadnought batt2e ertisers of
the "most powerful type."
Two light cruisers of the latest 7typ
(Wiesbaden and Elbing).
One light cruiser of the Rostocl
type.
The light cruiser Frauenleb.
At least nine destroyera.
One submarine
This would make a total of eight
warships, nine destroyers and on,
submarmre, a grand total of eightsen
vessels. as airainst only six arships
and e~ghit deLstroyers, a grand total
of fourteen vessels. admittedly lost by
the British
Would Boos0 Tonnage.
The Ge'man declaration of tonig!,'
that n', fu-ther losses wer suffered
than those announced seems that te..
Kaiser5 admiralty insists that the hat
tie cost Germany only three warships
and a number of torpedo c(aft The
British claim. If verifsd. nou-d bring
the German loss in tonnage-thus fa,
asserted by Berlin to he only 4SOm
-well up to. or even hey ond. the Brit
ish loss of 1.:-00 tons
By way of eihasizing that the main
body of the Brit:sh grand fleet made a
clean sweep of the North Sta waters
oice it appeared on the scene. the Br-trish
admiralty relates tyat Sir John Jel:icoe.
"having driven the enemy into port."
retirn- d to the main scene of the atiot.
and stayed there urtil noor on June I
nralr y twenty hours after the first shots
had been exchanged on the prev ious aft
ernoon-and sear hed the sea for d.sabled
vessels.
Explosion in Navy Yard.
Boston. Mas . June 4 -The eXploson of
a carbide tank in a construction shop
at the Foston Navy Yard. shattered many
windows and started a fire which blue
jackets. yard employee and city firemen
were called to fight.
Rare Bird Reaches Pi
New York. June 4 -A rare bird. known
as "cock of tht rock" and said to be the
only live specimen ever brought to thisL
country. arrived here today on the steams
er Guiana,
Lid Will Receive
hparedness Parade Fund
to aid in making Washington's pre
st and most spectacular yet staged by
all it to The Preparedness Editor, The
your contribution. and the donation
ded promptly to Rudolph Kauffman,
elp defray the expenses us
parade.
