'O"
NIGHT
EXTRA
'FINANCIAL EDITION
i
j&tmtmg
VOL. II.-NO. 227
1 c
PHTLADEIjI'HIA, MONDAY, JUNE 5, 101G.
CortmoiiT, 101b, ar tub Postio Ledoe CoutAhi.
$
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MUSICAL SOCIETIES OPENS CONFERENCE
NIGHT
EXTP A
phiob oTsnaomsr'r
HByPtBEBBp$4MHfCTHB gJEBsBfil y sBWL T vSBBMBBBBBBBftSIWiEHB IWBiMkMttwBMBBBBBHBBIMKPSaBBIHBBBB ii-
vw wew- v w-w?wawyrwr iwvwtiy-S'ypwrnf,yfy w-; www- JzTTTr??T7rWHIMBBBHHBBiHMHBlMWMMHMHHMlM ..":
M1Si!S
(fcjj
SSSISSil?!
t iu t. ,-jv, l. t n. ,-. .. ... . . '-w...i.w,..v.fc1iu.i.&s.iwi1.iji
iicid, Miss Harriet Seymour, Mrs. Catherine Saunders and David Mannca.
GERMAN LIQUID
FIRE ATTACKS ON
VAUX REPULSED
Teutons Unable to Advance
at Any Place on Ver
dun Front
HAND-TO-HAND FIGHTS
PARIS, June 5.
The Gcrmnns launched Boveral hot In
fantry attacks against Fort Vaux last
night, employing liquid flro, but desplto
this the attacks -vwera repulsed, says the
French official communique today. Else',
where along the line east of the Meuse
the lighting was. heavy, but the Germans
were unable to gain a yard, the state-.
mep says.
The armies "of the Crown Prince con
tinued violent .assaults, on .the, region, ot'
Dead MnH's Hill and Hill JIM all .day. Sun
day, and wer?. everywhere (tj-lvqn,' back. It
Is believed here that the .Germans are
making their mighty efforts at Verdun to
give strength to the lncreaso Jn .apjrlt of
the German people arouse'db'y the North
uea navai uattie.
German Infantry, according to the Wan
umes report, wrested some or the. French
llUe' trenches' from' the' holders In the region
between Damloup and "Fdrt Vaux. The "in
vaders, wertf.qulckly driven out, by" a fierce
counter-attack. '
Despite the. recent German successes
round Verdun, the officers In command of
the men remain sublimely confident the city
will not bo taken. It Is held that tho Ger-nans-are
without sufficient reserves to start
storming action all along the Verdun battle
front simultaneously. The French also look
to actions by tho Allies at points along the
line remote from Verdun to help solve the
Verdun problem.
At Damloup and Fort Vaux the charges
of the German Infantry ended In hand-to-band
.struggles along the trench lines. The
heaviest part of tho attack was directed
Ualnst Vaux.
The following Is the text of the official
statement:
On the left bank of tho Meuse there
was an Intermittent bomb'ardrrtnt east
of the, Meuse. The- artillery fire con
tinued with extreme violence in the
region of Thlaumortt farm and Douau
nfont. The Germans continued during
the night their attacks against our
positions In the region of Vaux and
M'NICHOL AWAY,
MAYOR CHOPS OFF
SATELLITE'S HEAD
Requests Resignation of
Chief Commiskey of City
Property Bureau
RUMORS OF MORE TO COME
I
Continued on Tate BeTen. Column One
' THE WEATHER
The Incongruity ot -warfare was never
o forcibly Impressed upon a startled world
as In the great naval battle oft Jutland.
Mighty ships bearing names like that of
tne Invincible .hove Into action; there was a
crash, a gurgle and a blub and hundreds
-or lives and millions of dollars were snuffed
?? And thB ba' isa't over yet With
ine German and English fleets safe at their
jases, the admiralties continue to sink
dreadnoughts right and left, coldly and
dfWoerately. without the excuse that Ilea In
wie heatpf battle." And what has this war
"htorlat to do with the weather?
tie wealher' hey sax. decided the bat-
FORECAST FOrTFeNNSYLVANIA
tuBwim.w a"em "yru tolar phytic
H Wl u. Jfoore fliia w, p, Caromr,
Sunday, Juns it, and Jlomfoi, June
'it? nco loin, oamn truth. nm,vit .aaih.
i'jrtjW,"h mo,ero'e' ttationary tempera.
lit ita1v,un" "' edntsday, June J,
m ThUreday. Junje 15-U Nclir fair up
fM'tovand Wtdneiday and nfaht tempera.
We will turn to degree cooler, loweet
"Mfl i the. tower so: '
JthJil iUn ,ffl 0Mlunlay, June U
J-JMieltled, thawexy Weather U expected
iV J" a' "! "" '. "A warmer
Mayor Smith this afternoon requested tho
resignation of Frank J. Cummlskey, chief
of the Bureau of City Property and one of
ine mc.Nicnoi leaders In the 25th Ward.
The Mayor's action was taken by politi
cians ns an Indication ot the fact that the
Brumbaugh-Vare-Smlth triumvirate, cha
grined at their defeat to obtain control ,of
tho Stato Committee, will pittempt to get' a
sop of comfort' by tnklng 'tho helm of the
Republican City Commltteo with' a strong
force to .back .them .and plant careful.
schemes' to", get' Vnro, control of municipal of
fices at, the ,electlqr next ye,ar.
This .thought", was strengthened by the
apparently fiut,hentle rumor that more Mc
Nlchol. bureau- chiefs' were "slated to' go ;"
that Cummlskey's discharge would later re
sult In wholesale "tiring" of McNIchol men
"higher up," a course from which tho city
administration officials have nn fnr mr.
fully s.tecred In that they dismissed only,
plerks and "small fry" during the hectlo
primary day's. '
SMITH HAS, "NOTHING TO'SAY."
The Mayor was .asked to explain his ac
tion after Cummlskey .had made public the
Mayor's letter and also announced his In
tention of refusing to accede to tho Mayor's
request.
"I have nothing to say about Cummls
key,' said the Mayor.
Ho then added Indignantly;
"I don't transact tho business of my of
fice through the newspapers."
The Mayor seemed surprised when he
found out that his course with Cummlskey
was public. His surprise waa overshadowed,
however, by his wrath.
The discharge of Cummlskey came but
a few hours before the meeting of the Re
publican City Committee and a few hours
after the entire McNIchol faction .had loft
ior me republican National Convention,
leaving behind' no one to care for their In
terests, It presages, perhaps, a wiping out
of the truce, effected between McNIchol
and Attorney General Brown to "put
across'Jr Knox as Pennsylvania's choice for
President.
Cummlskey was a follower of "BUI"
Campbell McNIchol leader of the, 25th
Ward, who held his bailiwick firm to the
McNIchol-Penrose wing of the party in the
recent campaign despite the efforts of the
Administration to force through a favorable
Vare vote by .means of patrdnage. He was
appointed, chief of the bureau provisionally
In January, being glverr the permanent ap
pointment on March 10 last.
The Mayor gave no reason for his action,
It being a regulation of the Civil Service
Continued on I'llte Tim,, Column One
SPEAKER LAUDS
MUSIC'S SERVICE
FOR DEMOCRACY
Agency in Americanizing,
Brings All Classes Into (
Harmony
PAPERS BY AUTHORITIES
OLD GUARD WANT
PROGRESSIVES TO
'PUT HUGHES OVER'
Also Urge Republicans to
Name the Same Stand
ard Bearer -i
FEAR OF A THIRD TICKET
Music as the Instrument of democracy
tho art of the masses was pictured today
by musical educators and social workers
at tho opening of tho fourth conferenco of
the National Association of Music School
Societies In the auditorium of the Curtis
Building. Men and women ot national repu
tation In this field of endeavor assembled
from all parts, of the country to discuss
means of .bringing this phase of culture to
the doors of the average American'..
It, Ip -a two-day convention, with all of
today's sessions to be. held In th,e Curtis
Building and those of tomorrow' In tho
Settlomenti, Music, School, 27 Christian,
street., Tho delegates were welcomed by
Cyrua.H. K. Curtis In a brief address. TJie
convention was officially, opened by Johan
Grolle, vice president of tho organisation
and director of. the Settlement Music School.
He said:-
"In music we have a great Americanizing
agency,- It will bring together tho son and
daughter of the rich and the poor and
representatives ot all clas'ses. It is the
common tongue for .-united artistic people."
Papers by delegates were read as fol
lows: Elizabeth Paine, of the New York
School, on "The Value ot Music as a Means
of Development;" Emily McCallln, of this
city, on "Eurhythmies;" Miss Anna Mac
fntyre, of New York, on "Bronx House ;"
Mrs. Catherine Saunders, of Boston, on
"Singing Individually and In Classes," and
Jacques Gottlieb, of New York, on "The
Music School In the Settlement as a Neigh
borhood Influence,"
A round-table discussion and the election
of officers, followed.
Luncheon "for the' delegates and Invited
guests was followed by a business meet
ing at 2, an address by Arthur Farwell.
director of the New York school, on "Tho
Future of Music for the People" ; James
Francis Cook, president of the Philadelphia
Music Teachers' Association, on "A Itenais
nance In Musical Education"; Mrs. A. Lin
coln FUene, ot Boston, on "Duties of the
Music School Settlement"; Elizabeth Fyffe,
of West Newton, Mass., on "The Co-operation
of Public: Schools With Music Schools";
Harriet Seymour, of New York, on 'The
New Piano Teaching" ; Catherine launders,
of Boston, on "Singing Individually and In
Classes,"
Then followed another round-table dln
cusslon. The evening session at 8 will be
devoted to a musical program by tho well,
trained pupils ot the Philadelphia ecliool
and a reception at the home ot Mrs. Samuel
Continued on Fate Three, Column Two
PRESIDENT DECLINES
TO SPEAK HERE JULY 4
Prior Engpgemeni Makes It Im
possible Secretary Baker
May Be Invited
OBHEftAU
WSATaSJi
DVB.
UOYEMPffTS
Iforthueet United States June to, preceded
cud'.! 3" U,,"et 8tat" a brinaino
ttltt N A ""itoMTV generally; with
sm, nrthem Rocky Mountain re-
Another movement due June It will h
ffiKif".'.' tfnP"aturee in the
GOVERNMENT PiPB-rrjcT
mtoMBht and probably Tue$dab.- con.
t'SiW, nwwwv tool,- gentle vwUrlu
SOSX AND SOUND
frfePsL nzHsiM 12 !
MZAimh&J
lft-tn f..tr. ' . " -2 v
6e TOBHBLLA 3 Tueidiy" vn will W-i
P-- apff .g biuiir fl Wqm utt lot esMsymt 41111 wnen n i w e
Sm&.H.A "Wk, tsM.fiiikravfAriw'iJffi trocution Is wt by Qowiwr Srumlwj
i 7 -K.7 v - --L - v .fit"" I O'Brien vW b WW4 te
fe - a"1 " -fmsM Afe w Jpw tf f fUSQtt,
President Wilson will not deliver the prin
cipal address7 at Independence Hall the
Fourth of July and; the Councllmanlc Com
mittee In charge today discussed a num
ber of men of national prominence whom
they plan asking to take part In the cele
bration, Joseph P. Tumulty, the President's prlt
vate secretary, wired Congressman William
.S.'Vare that the President would have to
decline Philadelphia's Invitation because he.
had promised to take part In the dedication'
'of a Government building at Washington on
Independence Day.-
Congressman Vara extended the Invita
tion to President Wilson after Councils
had decided not to go to the expense of
ending a Councllmanlc delegation to Wash
lnston for the purpose. He will, upon, his
return from Chicago, be asked to Invite one
of several national speakers. Those most
seriously considered are United States Sena
tor Jones, ot Washington, and Secretary ot
AVar Baker.
Plans for the celebration and for the
regatta on the Schuylkill Itlver are fast
nearlng completion at weekly meetings of
Councils," Fourth of July Committee.
Lad's Slayjer Prays Constantly
Virtually all the waking hours of Joseph
O'Brien, of thla city, condemned for the
murder of Israel Goldman, seven years old,
are spent In prayer In the Montgomery
County Prison. He speaks to no 0119 and
even his relatives have ceased their vltlta.
The Goldman boy was killed on Umi Unks
of tb WWtemarsh Country Club, north. o"f
its-
Pajr&w
BRANDEIS TAKES OATH
FOR SUPREME COURT
Three-Day Rule Waived and
New Justice Sits With
Associates
WASHINGTON, June 5. Louis D.
Brfindels, the first Jew to sit on the United
States Supreme Court bench, took the oath
of office at noon today. A distinguished
assemblage of. public men. Including mem
bers of both houses of Congress, witnessed
the administration of the usual oath by the
Chief Justice,
The ceremony took, place immediately
after the Court In full robes filed Into the
court chamber to hand down the regular
Monday decisions. .
The marshal escorted Justice Brandels
to his seat at the extreme eft pf the Chief
Justice. Members of the court bowed as
he passed, and, according to custom, Jus
tice Pitney, ot New Jersey, his Beat mate,
shook hands with hla new colleague.
Among those who witnessed the cere
mony were the, wife, and daughter of the
new Justice, Miss Pauline Goldmark. his
Blster-ln-law; Alfred Brandels. of Louis
ville, Ky.. a brother; George W. Anderson,
United States District Attonfey at Boston,
and Charles I'. Hall, of Boston.
Brandels sat today by favor of the Sen
ate's waiving ot Its three-day notification
rule, which provides that a person con
firmed by the Senate shall not assume
office until three days after he is notified
ot his appointment.
CHICAGO, June 5. If Colonel Theo
dore Roosevelt will agree to throw his
support and that of the Progressives to
a straight-out Republican "favorite
son" or "dark horse," he can name the
candidate of the Republican party for
the presidency. He himself cannot have
the party nomination. The. Old Guard
has decreed that it will not accept the
Colonel.
CHICAGO, June 5, "Justice Hughes'
nomination on an early ballot is inevi
table' "Franfc It. lYitchcock. unofficial
Hughes boomer, declared in a state
ment this afternoon. -'
"Justice Hughes will receive more
votes on the first ballot, thnn the com
bined strength of the favorite sons'
.candidates, and his nomination on an
early ballot is inevitable," the announce
ment concluded.
By PERRY ARNOLD
CHICAGO, Juno 6. Tho Old Gunrd made
Its first definite' proffer to the Progressives
today. Secure In Its own belief that It can
control the votes of a majority of the dele
gates, the dominant forces of Xlepubllcan
Ism want Hughes. But they only want
Hughes If they nro convinced he can bo a
winner next November. Therefore, their
preliminary feeler to the Progressives was
to ascertain whether an ngreement could
not be possible with Hughes as n candidate,
running on a sort of a platform which the
Progressives might require.
TheOld'Guard Isn't belittling the power
which It feels the Progressives can swing,
ap.d Its plan went further than a mere sug
gestion that agreement coino about on
Hughes. It embraced a scheme by which
the Progressives might ho able later to say
they wore the ones who "put Hughes over."
The scheme fostered by the Old Guard was
to have the Progressives meet Wednesday
and not later than Thursday night to nomi
nate. Hughes. Then by Friday or Saturday
the Republican convention would choose the
same standard bearer. The Progressives
could very well "point with pride" to tho
fact that by their action In naming Hughes
they had forced the Republicans Into select
ing the same loader.
SEEK "SATISFACTORY- STATEMENT."
The Progressive leaders, who have been
awaiting some sort of an olive branch sug
gestlon, made ,lt known to day they were
first for Roosevelt and only for Hughes
f some sort of n "satisfactory" statement
of principles could be extracted from the
Justice. Falling that they flaunted tha
"big stick" of a third ticket.
There appeared little dnnht tnd.iv ih
Hughes can be nominated If the "bin-
Penrose, Barnes and Crane say
QUICK NEWS
ANOTHER M'NICHOL MAN ASKED TO RESIGN
The resignation of H. Curzon Doyle, Supervisor of the Division '
of Children's Agents, nntt n McNIchol adherent, was nsked for today
by thoCounty Commissioners. Doyle is a member of tho Republican
Executive Committee of the 38th Ward. It was reported that his
resignation wns asltctl for shortly after he had refused to fall into
line with the Vare forces. The position pnys $1800 a year.
STEAMSHIP PHILADELPHIAN DAMAGED IN CRASH
LONDON, June 5. The British steamship Philadelphia!! was
damaged in collision with tho Norwegian steamship San Lucar off
Qravcsend today. The Philadelphian, a vessel of 012 tons, left New
York on May 13 for Brest and London, with a cargo.
FIVE IRISH WOMEN REVOLUTIONISTS RELEASED
LONDON, June 5. Five women prisoners who' were arrested
in connection with tho Soln Finn uprising were .released from tho
Mount Joy prison today. Two of them were Miss GIfford, a sister of
Mrs. Joseph Flunkett, and Mrs. Thomas MacDonogh.
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
First race, purse $600, 3-yeni-olds and up, selling, 5 1-2 fur
longs BIrdman, 104, Schamerhom, $6.10, $4 and $2.80, won; Leilohn,
110, Dodd, 3.80 and $2.80, second; Montreal, 110, Ward, 2 00
third. Time, 1:15. ? .
I
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
Fh-3t jp.ee, 2-year-olds, with $600 added,' 4 1-2 'furlongs straight
N Dunga'Din, 112, Keogh, 7 to 1, 5 to 2 nhd 4 to 0,'won; Bally, 107,
McDcrmott, 11 to 5, 3 to 5 and 1 to 6, second; Rivcrdab, 117, Kclsey,
5 to 1, 3 to 2 Hiitl 3 to 5, third. Time, :33.
COLONEL WILL
NOT BE NAMED,
OLD GUARD SAY
Elimination of Boosevelfc
and Hughes Planned by
Their Foes
"FAVORITE SONS" TO "DIE"
SHIPBUILDING PLANT EMPLOYES QUIT
BALTIMORE, June 6. The lower plant of. the Baltimore brydockn and Ship
building Company al Locust Point Is virtually nt a standstill .so far ns work Is con
cerned, due .to about-1200 men walking out today. The strikers want u. reduction
In hours and Increased pay. There has been no disorder.
fi4nv. ffnp?ssss& . ..
samuei. a. nrvraiE
Voting for Presidential Nominee,
it is Expected, Will
Be&in Friday
By SAMUEL 'G. BLYTHE
(CopurtoM, 101, by Ctntral Prtae ilodoHcm.JI
CHICAGO, 111., June 4. Twoyars ago
those who wero still remaining; of the Old
Guard of tho Republican party began saw
ing the presi
dential sit
uatlon Into a
puzzle, cut
ting It into
many pieces
with an In
genuity fos
tered' by Ions
practice o f
Biloh Intri
cate enter
prise, an d
thinking to
make It so
dlfllcuit o f
rearranging that none but themselves could
put It together again. ,
They succeeded In making it difficult be
yond their most sanguine hopes and various
and sundry other outside persons, Including
Colonel Roosevelt and Charles Evans
Hughes, rather arbitrarily took hands In i.
nuaing 10 ine completions piannea. xoaay, ,y
in unicago, the Old Guard is laboriously
trying to assemble theso pieces, so that the
completed whole shall bear the resemblance
ot a proper candidate for President, and
as yet they are In hectic doubt as to how
the thing is coming out. They know what
they want, and have afalr Idea of what
they may expect, but they hav.e not yet
progressed far enough .In the work of con
gregating to discover what they, will get,
and aB they proceed they are much annoyed'
by the shoutings and disturbances of other
Various patriots who hope theirs will ba
the completed picture, but have fears that
theirs will not. That is the situation in
Chfcagoj 'Thus fatr)rp-la'leen a greater
amount of' talk'., .Bjeculati6n,, prophecy and
conjecture' than -Xs have observed nt anit -l
SLAVS LOST. 47 AEROPLANES IN MAY (
BERLIN, Juno 5. Aviation nlr combats on the cast front during' May" wero
Vnpv gitM.nauf.il ah .1... , n.t.1 v. l . .... , . . . ... ..' " a
..-.. uuv.va,.. . uiD ui-iMiiuia. hb itutfuuHiH lost in aerial oatues 4Y aeroplanes, i " - - , -.,- ... -'-ji
Thlrty-Blx wero shot down, nine landed Involuntarily within our .lines and two Previous National Convention for ma.hjr-
" "c' .uiuiiy ucsiroyeu. wo lost to aeroplanes in air combats and 5 failed to' ""'" ,"" . ,"'"" " -: ",T(
return, making n total of 16..
X t f
STEAMSHIP FORCED TO DELIVER U. S. MAIL TO BRITISH
B13RLTN, June 5, The steamship Noordam, which arriye'd at Rotterdam jjay
28 from the United States, was forced to deliver all her mail to the British at Fal
mouth, according to n Hnguo dispatch received here today.
EVERYBODY 8 CENTS RICHER THAN ON MAY 1
"WASHINGTON, June 6. The Treasury Department today announced that
there was J38.3(i per capita in circulation on June J. -This was an increase of 8
cents per capita over the amount of May 1.
ROME AGAIN HEARS GREEK KING MAY ABDICATE
ROME, June 5, An uncensored dispatch from Athens hints at the possibility
of the abdication of King Constantino of Greece., The dispatch adds that tho res
ignation of tho Greek Cabinet is Inevitable and that It will result In sensational
developments.
TWO UNARMED BRITISH SHIPS AND ITALIAN BOAT LOST
LONDON, Juno 5. Lloyd's reports tho sinking of the unnrmed British steam
ships Dowsland and Salmonpool and announces that the Genoa steamer Mnrterso was
sunk on May 27.
Tho Salmonpool, 4005 tons gross, sailed from Adelaide on March 19 and arrived
nt Las Talmas May 11; her movements since then are unknown. The Dewsland, 1193
tons, nulled on May 4 from Penartli for a destination not stated. The Marterso Is not
listed. '
three'
so. nut the "big three" dq not want to
say no until they can be assured of a
united party behind Hughes, They do not
think Roosevelt can possibly draw ,all the
votes qf a reunited party. They da not
think, any of the "favorite sons" are' well
enough' known to defeat Wilson without
Progressive support. In other words, the
Old Ouard was In the anomalous position
Article three in (he
Evening Ledger
gcenariQ Lessons
Apea Mt Pf g g
9
.l"-IBHaM.lW"
Continued on fuse Two, fclumn Three
CHUMS TAKE POISON .
Curious Coincidence in Accidents Due
' , to Mistaken Potion
A few hours after Albert Mameal, 19
years old, of 84th Btreet and Crothers ave
nue, had been admitted to the I'nlveraitv
Hospital today, suffering from poison accl,;
uo.iiany uvuiiowea, nia cnun. uarry Solp.
mon, 21 years old, of 832 Eastwlck ave
nue, was brought to the same Institution
likewise suffering .from accidental pplson
Ing. poth boys are expected to recover.
Mameal arose In the night and swallowed
a quantity -of liniment In mistake for a
remedy which was kept In the same kind
of a bottle. He discovered hU error attd
shouted for help. Relatives walked him to
the home of Dr. William S. McConnell, 8H3
TJntcum avenue, where flrst-ald treatment
was administered. Then he was sent to
the hospital.
Solomon, feeling 111 about It o'clock thla
morning, mistook poison (ablets for a
headache remedy He shallowed one, and
Doctor McConnell was sent for. Hi bad
.amon remove to the rnirirtliy Hqapi.
tme,i wil4 v OtS W.
U. S. CAPTAIN LOST LIFE WHEN LANDING IN HAITI
WASHINGTON, June 5. Captain Herbert Jny Hlrshlnger, of the United States
Marine Corps, one of the best ofllcera in the service, was shot and. killed when the
American marine force landcc afid occupied Puerta Plata, Santo Domingo, May 31, It
has been announced, The officer was shot In the head while making the landing
in command of the marine detachment from the battleship Rhode Island. He was
taken ashore, and died tho next day, There was no other casualty during the
landing, and apparently no organized resistance. ,
BRITAIN WARNED TO OBSERVE STRICTEST ECONOMY
LONDON, June 5,-Tho National War Savings Committee has Issued another
and extremely urgent appeal to the nation, especially to the wealthier classes, to
observe the strictest economy, pointing out the "appalling responsibility" of pro
longing the war by Indulgence Jn luxury. The commltteo especially refers to the
question of motorcars and petrol.
WIRELESS NEWS PICKED UP 7000 MILES AWAY
THE HAGUE, June 5,t The wireless station at Sabang, Dutch East Indies, has
recently been nble to hear German war neyvs being telegraphed from Nauen, near
llnnover, Germany, and British messages" sent from Carnavon, Wales, a distance of
approximately 7900 miles. The successful transmission is taken here as Indicating
the desirability of the establishment of wireless communication between Holland
and her Far Eastern colonies.
1000 MORE U. S. MARINES TO GO TO SANTO DOMINGO
WASHINGTON, June 5. One thousand more marines are to bo sent to Santo
I'omlngo. Admiral Caperton asked for reinforcements, reporting that conditions are
rot Improving- In announcing the early dispatch of another detachment, Navy Sec
retary Daniels explained that the object Is to have "an adequate force available for
the protection of foreign property in Santo Domingo." ' Some two thousand marines
are on that Island now. and ten warships. are patrolling the surrounding waters, The
new force will sail on the marine transport Hancock, which Is now at Vera Cruz,
but will proceed Immediately to New Orleans, The main body of the marines en
trained at San Diego, Cal, yesterday for New Orleans.
KITCHIN WINS HIS FIGHT FOR RENOMINATION
WASHINGTON. June 5. Majority Leader Kltohln has won his fight for renonv
Inatlqn fpr Congress In North Carolina, by a majority of 7000 votes. This was; stated
last night by Mr. Kltchln' friends In Washington following receipt of Incomplete
returns. Reports from virtually all the representative wards In the 2d North
Carolina District, which Mr. Kltchln has represented In Congress since 1801, Indicate
that he carried every county. Jt was the general impression here that thoflun
portera of Cllftgman Mitchell, the Democratic Door leader's opponent, were making
a pure ly personal fight on him because of Mr. KUehUVa appointment of a postmaster
at Wilson, the seat rf tho opposition. The North Carolina Democrats 4a Washing
ton said th result of the ICHchla race could, not now n construed a an extu-eiBina
I, ol ppijaoa o th North CatoUjui voter on the president's preparedness program.
cessant clatter to . get ' definitely down t
facts.' ' ,' . .,
BATTLE TO IJAST DITCH.
The. truth of It Is that the. men who art
apparently- In. control of this convention
have, a clear Idea of what they desire to do,
but no. fixed Idea at all concerning what
they Bhall be able to do. Thera are two
or more determined quantities. The Arst
Is speaking as the Old Guard speaks, and
there Is no- doubt that the Old Guard, for
the time at least, has absolute control of
this convention and will not .consent to the
nomination of Roosevelt, unless they are
so far down In defeat that their consent la
negligible. The . second Is that they will
light the nomination of Hughes unless they
see that their control w"l De taken from
them by the convention, unfcss they cannot
help themselves, and then they will grudge
Ingly consent. They do not expect to be
called upon to consent. They claim they
have beaten Roosevelt already j that Iloose
velt men ure now engaged with thera v
In beating Hughes, and that when this sec
ond fustlgatlou Is complete' they will s(ep
In and name their own man, of their ow
kidney, and go Into the fight with ihun,
knowing that If' they win they will not bt
without merit In the eyes or the benefi
ciary of their maneuvers here within ths
next few days.
ASSEMBLING THE PIECES.
They have no fixed candidate as yet,
The assembling of the pieces has not
progressed beyortd trie preliminary stapes.
There Is no particular hurry. They must
make su.re first that Hughes Is out of the .
way, so they Intend to fuss along and con
fer and talk and encourage the claim of
the multitude, and when things are reason
ably squared In their minds, name their
man and go' home.
There Is no man of the OJd Guard, nor
any adherent thereor, nor any lieutenant
or satellite, who Is any way In the con
fidence of the leaders who Is not emphatio
and explicit In his statement that Roose
velt cannot and will not ba nominated by
this Republican convention. Nor Is thera
any of these who Is not quite confidant,
not certain. buUconftdent, that Hughes Will
not be nomlnaM)ut that the nominee wilt
be some othJKvhose Identity has not yet '
been deterRd.
The OUppuard Is no eleemosynary Instl.
tutlon jprglve a nomination to Peter or
Paul, Rom charitable. Impulse. Jt U no
band of patriots, to think first of national
needs. It is a severely practical and par
tisan organization, or Inner circle of an
organization, that demands to know of
nominee at Its hand what there will b
In It for them in case the victory cornea.
Wherefore, the man named Will be a man
Hnown, not the man speculatively he!4 or
surmised.
INCIylNB TQWAja? JURIST;
If some person coUldjHb Into thl? toxi
ca ted assemblage at this (fm and wxigk
particularity and authority just what
be expected of Justice, HuaMfc.fJi
la nominated, and elecisdrftSggsPUid y.
ceived by tha namumUi put iym
Inatlw- al Ju?tlc Hutaes vCMltl In jy i
brims about, Iweaus fbe tttogar ifep
party ! largely fw Urn i fcut .
dtow not 4. 4Mtttt p Miij w--OW
Owurf 0t mm Wwfe ftdm
Hdcmx wwvitfe Mr iBwiwfe, jtegay
:r.
-I
.immMm
