VOLUME FORTY-TWO
I
IH*
y-
&
British Figures of Eighteen
Vessels Sunk Accepted
wmt
ii
as Correct.
f*
TEUTON NAVY SAID
TO BE CRIPPLED
British No Longer Faar Effort to Run
s^Slockada and Attack Coaat-iTwo of
Gorman 8hipa Sunk Idontifiod aa
•tlindenburg and Lutzow—Berlin Re
port* Continue to Claim Victory But
Givo No Inkling of Loaaaa.
London, June 6.—In Ti«* pf t"he lat
sst report of the admiralty on the naval
battle of last week, the press and pub
•Ki Uc are devoting their attention to com
«S puting the losses of the two navies and
the effect it Is likely to have on future,
naval warfare.
the British estimate of eighteen
German ships lost is now generally ac
cepted and the battle is regarded as a
British victory.
It is pointed out that the Germans
d.id not admit the loss of the cruiser
Ellbing until the arrival of some sur
vivors of her in Holland* and. this is
cited as confirmation that the Germans
concealed their losses until forced by
".. circumstances to reveal them.
This-was made possible, it was ar
gued. by the fact that the British losses
occurred In daylight and are known to
the Germans, while the German losses
occurred at twilight or aft€r dark,
li German Navy Crippled.
,-••*3®
If these estimates prove correct naval
writers declare it will be many a day
IZ3 before the German battle fleet again ap
pears in tlM North Sea. After the
1
Dogger Bank battle, the Derfflinger
and Moltke were five months in dock
and it is believed that the German
v' ships of this class engaged in last
week's battle, were even more severely
damaged.
The Derfflinger and her sister ship,'
the Lutsow, are believed to be the
I fcSk&hattt# cruisers wfeloh the British have
^^ttcluded ln the list of supposed G«r
miiu loser*. whils another battle cruis
er, the Seydlits, is reported, from a
neutral source to have been SMUt -on-
Thursday morning, badly damaged and
being pursued by British warships,
f'' Ends German Hopea.
&/-/ The battle, it Is also suggested, puts
end to German ambition to force a
[jj$£ way thru the British blockade to raid
allied shipping In the Atlantic.
Another advantage claimed from the
outcome of the battle is that it relieves
1|! the pressure upon the Russian army
Ij& 'l wing in Courland, to which the German
gr»J Beet was giving valuable support. It
is already Reported from Copenhagen
W$j& that German .cruisers have been wlth
Srif drawn from the Courland coast, while
gfei German destroyers have not been seen
|||. [or a week in the southern Baltic.
§^5*8Two" German 8hipa Identified..
!r&^' British officers of the fleet which par
|i V^ tlclpated In the Jutland battle have
Identified two big German warships
sunk as the Hindenburg and the
Lutzow.
j^C The Lutsow, a battle cruiser of 26,000
t/ tons, was completed in 1915. She was
armed with eight 12-inch, twelve 6-inch
and twelve 34-pounder guns and equip
IgSsJ. ped with five torpedo tubes. Her ar
rnor belt was about 13 inches in thick
life ness amidships. She was 689 feet long.
$?§ She was of the latest battle cruiser
1^1 type. The Hindenburg is not listed.
il
It has been reported that she was one
of the most powerful battle ships of
the latter type, launched in 1915.
Heavy Loss of Britiah Officers.
A total of 333 officers were killed in
the Jutland battle, according to a lUt
issued by the admiralty today. This
list shows that practically all the of
ficers of the cruisers Queen Mary, In
vincible, Indefatigable, Defense and
iUack Prince and from the destroyers,
tipperary, Turbulent, Fortune, Ardent,
Nomad, Nestor and Shark perished. All
the officers except one from the cruiser
Sparrow Hawk. On the other ships
twenty-three officers were killed and
twenty-two wounded.
Say Eighteen German Shipa Were Lost.
The Britiah admiralty Sunday night
Issued a statement saying there was
the strongest grounds for the belief
thai the British navy in the battle
with the Germans off Jutland last
week -had aocounted for a total of
eighteen German men-of-war, and that
there was nothing to add to or sub
tract from the original announcement
of the British losses.
The pessimism which prevailed as
a result of the admiralty's original
statement of losses, which now Is con
sidered to have been needlessly candid
and conservative in underestimating
the extent of the German losses comr
pared with those of Great Britain, has
been greatly lessened by the latest
statement.
A dispatch from Copenhagen says
rumors are current in Hamburg that
two additional German warships be
sides those announced in the German
communicatlon-r-the battleship West
falen and the battle cruiser Lutxow
—were'sunk in the battle. A wireless
dispatch received here Saturday from
Berlin said the German admiralty ad
mitted the loss of the Westfalen.
German Shipa Not Named.
The admiralty statement last night
declares that the German losses tn tha
AgTit were not only relatively hut «h-' the stat of Fuklen.)"
f- ..v-V-V
solutely greater than those of the
British. Maintaining its practice of
caution, the admiralty still refrains
from giving the names of the lost Ger
man ships.
The official list pf the casualties
among officers shows that hardly a
•single officer of the line escaped from
the British cruiser sunk in the bat
tle.
An additional casualty list of petty
officers shows that forty-three of them
were saved from the QUeen Mary, In- KcnyOll
vincible, Fortune, Ardent and Shark.
None was saved from the Indefatig
able, Defense, Black Prince, Tipperary,
Turbulent, Nomad or Nestor.
Sixty-Five Killed on Warfior.
The list gives the names of sixty
flve men killed aboard the Warrior
and of twenty-seven men wounded.
On the other ships engaged In the
fight, 115 men were killed and- eighty
five wounded.
Admiral Lord Beresford In an In
terview yesterday, while contendingi _.
strongly for the view that there was
no failure in the British strategy and
that Vice Admiral Beatty won a bril
liant success, tho it was dearly bought,
declares that the only mistake made
was by the admiralty In allowing the
Germans to get first in the field with
the news of tne battle, or as he puts
It, with "Impudent fabrications." Oth
erwise, said Lord Beresford, no fault
can be found with the admiralty.
CLOSE RANGE AID3 GERMANS.
Haxy Weather Enabled Smaller Guna
to Do Deadly Work.
Berlin, by wireless to the Associated
Press from a Staff Correspondent via
Sayville, June 6.—Twenty-six of Ad
rniral Jelllcoe's most powerful battle
ships, Including six of the most mod
ern Queen Blizabeth class, and the I
.British flying squadron, equal in every
respect, were engaged in all save the
early stages in the day battle in the
North sea, according to an authorita
tive account today.
This account meets1 clearly what Is
characterized as a British attempt to
explain that the German squadron was
larger than that of Great Britain.
The fleet. thus assembled surpassed I
la tonnage and weight of broadsides
the German force engaged, was at I
isstst enjaMv roodsrr cmd ^*ro.o fay
speedier than the squadron of German
pre-dreadnaughts.
Silent aa to Damage.
The recital leaves untold the tale
of damages sustained by German units
and the losses In personnel. It says
nothing of "the brilliancy in battle tac
tics displayed by Admirals Scheer and
Hipper, the smoothness and. preci
sion with which the German ships
maneuvered and the deadly sureness
of the German marksmanship, altho it
is an open secret that these three fac
tors were, largely responsible for the
achievements of the Germans.
It is shown that the Germans on
thia occasion, unlike the Dogger bank
engagement of crujser squadrons, were
unafcls to choose their distance and,
of ffie
battle at rangea of&boUt eight miles
—not ranked, as' a moderate distance—
At which tne German eleven and
fectlve In penetrative power as the
blg-mouthid 13's, 14's and 15's, with
which the modern British giants are
armed. Furthermore tfyey are far
more superior in rapidity of Are. Naval
experts have Intimated to the asso
ciated Press that this was one of the
most decisive factors in the struggle.
Smaller Guns Effective.
German battleships and cruisers
were able to shower the British with
a hail of shells which at eight miles
and sometimes even closer smashed
British armor belts and wrought havoc
to ships' vitals. The ponderous Brit
ish projectiles naturally were as effec
tive but the Armstrong and Whit
worth monsters could scarcely land
one punch to each two from the vi
cious Krupp eleven-inchers.
Cruiser and Destroyer Daatroyed.
Berlin, via London, June 5.—An of
ficial statement issued by the German
admiralty today saye:
"On the 31st of- May one of our
submarines off the Hiimber sank an
English torpedo boat destroyer, which,
according to a survivor, was the Tip
perary. The British armored cruiser
Euryalus was set afire by our forces
during ithe bstttle of Skager Rack and
was completely burhed out."
HAMILTON COUNTY
AGAINST SUFFRAGE
Early Indications Point to Defeat of
Amendment-—Great Change of Senti
ment in Last Days of Campaign—
Coaaan and Allan on Eaay Terms.
Special to Times-Republican.
Webster City, June 8. Indications
The statement gave the German He has gained perceptibly during the
losses as two battleships,, two dread
nought battle cruisers, four light
cruisers, nine torpedo boat destroyers
and a submarine.
Peaaimiam la Leasenad.
closing days pf the campaign.
CALL FOURTEENTH PANEL.
SEES CUMMINS
1
Believes Iowa
Man's Chances For Nom
ination Are Growing.
ROOSEVELT S^ID
TO BE OUT OF I*t
K,ny°n ,Mue»
Statement After Con-
ference With Roosevelt Spokesman—
Hughes Sentiment Strong But May
Slump Before Convention Is Called
to Order—Political Managers Round
ing Up Delegates and Setting Stags.
Special to times-Republican.
Chicago, June 5.—Senator Ken
yon, chairman of the Iowa delega
tion which ia presenting the can
didacy of 8enator Cummins, aaid
today:
"The supporters of Senator
Cummins are confident that har
mony in this convention can be
beat accomplished by/the nomina
tion of a western man and that
Cummins is the most logical can
didate of all in the field. His nom-'
ination will leave no sore spots
and the party under his leadership
could be united to certain victory"
in the fall. Senator Cummins is
right on the great questions now
before the American people ^and
everybody knows where he stands.
They know the worth of the man.
Our instructed delegations have
aaaured us that they will stay by
our candidate to the end and we
are aaaured of much additional
second choice strength, so that our
own delegates are not even talk
ing of second choice. We believe
that when tha break comes among
all the candidate* in -the field the
logical selection of a candidate
like Senator Cummins will swing
the convention to him.'*'
The statement waa given out
after a conference between Sena
tor Kenyon and George W. Per
kins, Rooaevelt spokesman.
Chicago, June 6.—Uncertainty and
TV
Mora Than 1,100 Talaaman Examined noon every state was represented.
For Orpat Trial.
Waukegan, III., June 5.—The four
teenth panel of veniremen to be called
for examination In the trial of Will
Orpet, University of Wisconsin stu
dent, charged with the murder of
Marian Lambert, appeared before the
court today. iMore than i,i00 men have
now been summoned for examination.
Chinaae Rebels Surround Tungan.
Amoy. China. June S.—Tungan, twen
ty miles north of Amoy, Is reported to,
have been surrounded by the/revolu
tionists
(There lsn AmertSSn missloh under
the supervision of the Christian and
Missionary Alllance^a Tungan, with
ah American missiaxswy and his wife
in charge. Recent relporto from Amoy
have told of increasing revolutionary
activity In that Vicinity and thruout
LM
a
g£vel8 were scheduled to fall at the
Coliseum and the Ajiditorium "at the
opening of the .republican and Rrp-
fcresslve conventions.
Restraint marked every movement
precede the long contest and the hard
Can
til Friday or Saturday/ remarked one,
manager of a lesser ^publican can- „WOu,d surprise the state."
didate "we stand a mighty good show
Let these big fellows go out in
will begin to use gasolene when these
fellows have gone into the fence or to
the pits for repairs.
"It is not a case, as so many seem
to thinlc, of any man to beat Wilson
but a case of the man to reunite the
republican party."
This was much the situation as the
latest influx of delegates, alternates
and camp followers took place during
the hours iip to noon. 5
Say Rooaevelt la Out of It.
Talking without a full knowledge of
the mood of uninstructed delegates,
many leaders declared Roosevelt was
out of the race, that Hughes was
strong but might slump in the next
twenty-four hours, and finally that
nothing short of several ballots would
begin to tell the story.
There was a noticeable lack, as con
trasted with 1912, of incislveness and
squared determination among
today and, as far as possible, let the
situation work out itself for a time ^t
least.
Indications were that it would be
late afternoon or night before any
action of importance would result.
Setting tha Stage.
A quiet counting of noses of in
early, this afternoon are that Hamilton their assistants in dragnet fashion to
county will defeat the suffrage amend
ment in. today's state-Wide primary,
tho this country ha* been considered
strong for It. There^has been a won
derful stange of sentiment, however, I
the past several days. Oosson and'
Allen will run neck and neck for gov
ernor tho Harding will have a big vote.
Plans and counter plans for precip
itating such a break have been
evolved with studious care, and in two
or three instances men counted wise
in political stage craft already -have
assembled certain bits of stage para
phernalia ready for use in event of a
propitious opportunity.
Cummins Men Active.
Delegations to the republican and
progressive conventions continued to
"our in on every train today and by
Committees have been named to look!
Progreaaives to Delay Nomination.
The progressive national committee
decided to withhold electing a candi
date in the progressive national con
vention until next Saturday.
This decision of the progressive
committee, following a speeclt by
Chairman Murdock. in which' he de-
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1916.
glared he was for Roosevelt and would
not be for "any non-commltal candi
date at this time."
The national committee appointed a
special "steering committee' to treat
with repufrjljcan leaders and also carry
on a newspaper publicity campaign.
The committee consists of George W.
Perkins, of New York Governor
Hiram Johnson, of California, and
Horace Wilkinson, of
New
York.
The executive committee, of which
Mr. Perkins Is chairman, presented the
plan which was adopted to delay ac
tion on'nomination of a candidate un
til Saturday. It was decided to warn
all delegates against leaving Chicago".
The "steering committee." it was stat
ed, will have discretion to treat with
republican leaders or a similar com
mittee from the republican national
committee or convention regarding
possible joint action.
Five Big Convention Planks.
Preparedness, peace, Americanism,
Mexico, and the tariff will be offered
to the, country by the republican na
tional convention this week as the
main issues on' which the national
cafX-'ign is to be fought out.
Alth* the resolutions committee of
the convention, which will draft the
platform, *has not been formally se
lected, the various state delegations
already have chosen their representa
tives on that committee, and at a se
ries pf informal conferences today it
was agreed to go before the country
•on the five issues.
Rumen of Crane.
I cided upon today by the Massachu
setts delegation.
During the last few days there were
disquieting rumors that Murray Crane
and not Lodge would represent Mas
sachusetts on the platform body, and
that Crane would try to dominate it.
^Delegates from outside Massachusetts
wheft they heard of the Crane rumor
mnr a vnTfnq \jr»T
iuitA nui
'OUT IN FORCE
Poll of Medium Size Expected Because
Farmers Are Busy in Field—Guber
natorial fiace Conceded to Be Close.
Des Moines, June 5.—Indications are
that a vote of^only medlom size will
be cast in today's statewide guberna
torial primary, in the opinion of politl-
ca|
restraint were dominant factors here was thought, might cut down 1jhe_ vote,
today, forty-eight hours before the On.tgg&other hand, it was pointed' out,
...
leaders here. Possibility of rain, it
,-1 good weather might keep the farmers
•in the fields..
The vp'te iiifwtKfe-pities Is-expected to
be'large. The/republican gubernatorial
contest, interest In which was height
ened by the recent conference of sup
porters of Cosson and Allen, seems to
IHII Vv9 vll Miltl AbliVlJIf Ov^atiO
and little politicians, who ntte ^ave replaced the suffrage amendment
I a
as^he
sleeves, took close scrutiny of the men Hy admitted that it was "anybody's
opposite them at the big game board,! race" and the vote is expected to be ex
and made those preparations which!
4
paramount issue. Leaders read-
tr«nely^dose.
1
called dry faction between Allen and
Cosson is believed materially to have 1
contest. Increased Harding's chances for the
.1. LlT
n"j nomination. Supporters of Keuhnle de-
that the VQte for their man
c0nsensU3 of opinlon l8 that
front1IOUllAagC OIIH.UUU4VMV »VUI\» V«1
:It WA suffrage amendment would carry. Ef
and set the pace for the Arst laps
suffrilge
Domingo Indicated that the situation
was more serious than had been be
Ueved. The message said:
"After twenty-four hours' notice ma
rines were landed on June 1 at Monte
Christi and Puerto Plata. The fort
at Puerto Plata was occupied after
resistance of two hours. One mnrlnn
doming delegations was taking place! officer probably fatally wounded. Fort
while managers were spreading out
find, if possible, the .point where might
occur the first sharp, clear break tow
ard one candidate.
and town of Monte Ohristi occupied
without resistance but rebels strongly
entrenched outside town."
The wounded marine officer was
Capt. Herbert J. Hirshlnger. command
ing the detachment from the battle
ship Rhode Island, who died at Puerto
Plata June 1. He was shot thru the
head whil^ directing the landing of his
m6n.
BRANDEIS SEATED
ON SUPREME BENCH
Swoon, as. Associate. Juatice. eBing
Sixty-Second Citizen To RiaeToThat
High Office-Oath of Allegince Am
ministered by Chief Juatice White.
The Iowa delegation laid plans to!
further the candidacy of Senator Cum
mlns. The Iowans agreed that the|
hope of 'Cummins' success lies In the!
elimination of Colonel Roosevelt and!
Justice Hughes. Committees have
been aippolnted• to keep in touch with dels, of Boston today took his seat as
ih"e instructed delegates from Tvlon- 1 associate Justice of the supreme court,
tana. South Dakota, 'Minnesota and
Washington June 5,—Louis Bran-
tho glxty seCond
hi8h
APPEARS REAL
Sentiment Strong in Favor
of Supreme Judge For
President.
MAY NOT RESULT
IN HIS NOMINATION
Old Guard Backing Hughes Lacka
Leadership Roosevelt Generally
Eliminated a« Possibility But Cred
ited With Power to Defeat Hughea!
and to Nominate Cummina or Some
Other Favorite Son Candidate.
Special to Times-Republican.
Chicago, June 5.—The general feeling
about this convention la that Roose
velt can not be nominated, but he is
clearly a dominant figure and the fear PAGES
Senator Henty Cabot Lodge of Mas
sachusetts will' be chairman of the
committee and 'in charge of the draft-. .. ..
ing of the platform. His selection for °f nominating a man whom Roosevelt City News:
the chairmanship was practically de-
would oppose as the candidate on the
third party ticket deters powerful
leaders from centering on any man to
day. Hughes is the strongest candi
date in the field so far as talk in the
crowds is concerned, but instructed
delegates pretty generally are making
caucus agreements to stay by their
bombarded the Bay state men with re- candidates which, if carried out. will
quests for the selection of Lodge.
Crane, it is understood, will yield to
Lodge and .in turn be chosen national
committeeman from his state.
A
The split of the so-
the
out
advocates to bring ou
the. vote today were unceasing.
The polls will close at 8 p. m. and re
turns are expected to be very slow.
U. S. MARINES
ENGAGE IN BATTLE
Situation in Santo Domingo Some
what Critical—Americans Capture
Towns and Fort But Rebels Build
Strong Entrenchments Outaide.
Washington, June -6.—Dominican
rebels who lied from Puerto Plata and
Mone Christi at the approach of Am
erican marines have strongly en
trenched themselves outside of the
the latter town.
major leaders. Everywhere there was A dispatch to the state department
apparent a disposition to go slowly today from Minister Russell at Santo
citizen to rise to that
distinction.
after delegates In Kansas, Washington, The ceremonies lifting the attorney
Arkansas and Oklahoma who have sig- were precisely those by which his pre
ntfled their intention of voting for' decessors of the last generation were
Cummins.
likewise elevated.
Chief Justice White privately admin
istered the oath of allegiance to the
country. At noon, when the court mar
ched to the bench, the new justice took
a seat at the side of the clerk of the
court. When Mr Brandeis' commission
had been read the cletk administered
the oath.
eliminate Hughes, and unless Hughes
breaks .his silence and tells the country
where he stands, the Roosevelt crowd
will withhold their endorsement of him
and leave the danger of a third ticket
ever present. Cummins has the 'best'.0* some one
day, for there is
friendliness of feeling toward his
he
mlns. Rooaevelt has it in his
day took on the aspect or a genuine,^
ment.
The lack of controlling leadership by
the men who have composed the "old
guard" is emphasized on every hand,
They expressed themselves as favoring
Hughes, because delegates bringing:
first-hand reports believe he can be the':
harmonizer who can bring In the pro
gressive strength.
On every hand explanations are!
sought of the failure of sentiment for
Roosevelt to cystalize. Last week those
opposed to the colonel feared a stam
pede to him. Now, it is said that is not
possible.
Roosevelt Stampede Impossible.
Republican leaders, after a canvass
today, declared Roosevelt's ultimate
strength would not be more than 200
delegates, and they believed the num
ber would be nearer 150 delegates.
It is asserted that the remaining 750
or S00 delegates would not vote for him
under any circumstances.
NEWS OF THE DAY
T.-R. BULLETIN.
The Weather.
Sun rises June 6 at 4:29 s«t* at 7:27.
lowa^Showers tonight and Tuesday,
warmer in east portion tonight.
PAGE ONE.
Telegraphio News:
German Losses in Sea Fight Grow
ing,
British Cls^|Bftttle a Victory. ,v
Vaux Becuj Slaughter Pen.'
Hughes B| Appears ReaL
Cu Hi milks' Gruwiutf.
PAGE8 TWj 'slfHREE AND FOUR.
Iowa Newa: |. "S§
Hubbard J.a'" State Essay Cham
pion.
But Two I^ain In Election.
Fourteen t.^jdles Taken From
Wreck.
Three or Still Missing,
llomecomir -^t Troy.
CommerclaiTTavelers Close Meet
ing.
PAGE SIX.
Editorial:
Another Big and Important Con
vention.
Justice Hughes at Home.
Last Week's Business.
Topics of the Times.
Iowa Opinion and Notes.
PAGE SEVEN.
Fiction:
Opening Chapter of New Serial.
The City of Numbered Days.
chance of the field of favorite sons to- """milieu.
for there is an unmistakable All forces are careful not to express
can-
EIGHT, NINE, TEN, ELEVEN
Linn Delivers Class tlarewell.
Ansons Win Sunday Lose Satur
day.
Primary Vote Heavier Than 1914.
Three Hurt in Auto Accident.
Marshalltown Twenty-live Years
Ago.
General and Brief City News:
PAGE TWELVE.
Markets and General:
Cattle Steady.
Slump in Hog Prices.
Xo Grain Markets in Chicago.
Candidates Shy at Second Place.
British Fleet Sought Battle.
some of the candidates,
give up hope for their candidate. Healy! likely to proceed without giving con
finaJly came into the Cummins head- sideration to his views.
quarters today and assured the dele- In saying that Roosevelt could pre
gation that
is
yet unmentioned
hostility to colonel Roosevelt or to sa
didacy on the part of Roosevelt lead- an.vthiwhk-h_ would make it im
ers. He voted for Roosevelt four years
ago, supporting the republican tick"-*.
on all other offices. Today Roosevelt
leaders still insist that Roosevelt
should be nominated, hut Senator
Kenyon had a very satisfactory con
ference with Perkins, the Roosevelt
leader, and Iowa men still hope for
success in the evei\t the Roosevelt men
hut
would vote for Cum- vent the nomination of any one or two
power
I men, Justice Hughes Is not excepted,
to dictate th* nomination of this con- but those who are for him profess that
vention, just as'Iffe had. foaiwyearsi aso.i Rooswelt would not go so far ps to
provided he' will eliminate himself. The say in advance that Hughes was un
only question today Is, will he do it? acceptable if his. seemed
I certain.
Chicago. June 5—The movement for The attitude of men taking this po
the nomination of Justice Hughes to-: ^lo" Is »un.med UP byrtHr «.tat.-
ment that they want Roosevelt ncip
dlctatlon
boom. Arrival of delegates today gave- q(cj GuaPC) Lacks Loaders,
fhe Hughes forces much encourage-! The outstanding fenture of the
convention is the lack of leadership
among the men who compose the old
guard. They are here and on the
ground but they lack the control of
affairs. There Is also a luck of what
conventions call "fixers" who come
with planks for the platform all pre
pared and assurances that they were
going in.
Of all the favorite sons who will be
presented to the convention none is
said to have the strength to command
a stampede. The Weeks faction con
tinues its claim of 200 or more votes
on the first ballot.
Senator Cummins' manager claims
more than 100 votes on the first bal
lot and says In addition thfit Colonel
Roosevelt would support their man.
SUFFRAGISTS ON HAND.
Open Convention and Will Ask For
Adoption of Plank by Republicans.
Chicago. June 5.—To the suffragists
It was pointed out that when delegat-i goes tho honor of opening convention The reinforced Turkish army In tha
es were selected it was known that week In Chicago, for the Congressional Caucasus, which late last month began
Roosevelt would be a strong candidate. Union Kor Woman's Suffrage, an or- an offensive campaign, has driven the
Men were chosen who favored harmony ganlzatlon pledged to the Susan B. Russians farther back, the war offico
which leaders say is not synonyous Anthony amendment, opened Its con- announced today. The statement says:
with Roosevelt and are regarded them- ventlon at the Blackstone Theater to- "On the Caucasus front our troops
fore as not of the stampedable type. day for a three days' session during drove back the enemy's left wing for
The great mass of the delegates are 1 which time it Is planned to form a about twenty-live miles, notwlthstand
uninstructed and are counted on to tody to be known as the woman's I ing unfavorable weatehr. AH attempto
vote for any man who can bring a maj- party. 'he enemy to cover his retreat or to
ority of the progressives back to the| Tomorrow the National American regain his positions collapsed with
fold. I Woman Suffrage Association, a fed- 1 heavy losses."
Talk of demanding a pre-convention erationo of state suffrase associations
statement from Justice Hughes as a which, favor campaigns for the adop
condition of his nomination has been tion of suffrage by states, will begin
abandoned.
Say Hughea ia Sound.
It Is generally believed, however, that
If nominated, the justice will make a
statisfactory statement.
Hughes' supporters point out that
his address made before he went on the
bench show him to be for preparedness
and sound Issues from a party point of
view.
Word has gone out from Govrnor
Whitman's headquarters that it is fu
tile to look forward for an eleven th
hour move from those who are working
for the Hughes nomination.
On every hand there seems to be sen
timent to avoid making the nominee
the campaign Issue and to select one on
whom republicans and progressives can
unite, and so word will go to the coun
try that the party has been rehabilita
ted by the uniting of factions which
split It four years ago.
Rooaevelt Leada in Enemies.
It is reallzed that of all of the pos
sibilities, Colonel Roosevelt has the
greatest personal following but at the
same time he has rhp most enemies.
Republican leaders charged that many
voters would be alienated for one or
more of several reasons.
The conviction that Roosevelf could
not unite the party has led to dec
larations in Cavor of the nomination of
a strong man whose nomination would
be a signal to the country that the
factional strife has been ended.
The situation respecting both
Roosevelt and Hughes contains all the
necessary elements to produce a dark
horse candidate, but there are so many
strong men among the favorite sons
1
that the possibility of the selection
a two days' session at the Princess
Theater.
The national association has pre
pared a plank calling for equal suf
frage, which will be presented to the
republican convention Wednesday with
the request that it be placed in the
party's platform.
Indiana Booats Fairbanka.
Indianapolis, Ind., June 5.—Indiana
republicans, several hundred strong,
moved on Chicago today, to support
Charles W. Fairbanks. Indiana's choice
for the presidential nomination.
"Boost Fairbanks, Knock Nobody,"
was their slogan.
Two special trains, one starting
from Evansville, the other from Indian
apolis, carried about 800 Fairbanks
men to the convention city. Mr. Fair
banks will remain at his home here
during the convention.
ENGINEMEN IN CONVENTION.
Second Triennial Meeting ef Brother
hood Opens at Denver.
Denver, Colo., June 5.—With 843
delegates present the second triennial
convention of the Brotherhood of Loco
motive Enginemen and Firemen opened
today at the municipal auditorium.
President Carter arrived here late
yesterday to preside.
The ladies' society of the brother
hood was in simultaneous session.
The industrial accidents of New
Tork state are more than 500 per day.
NUMBER 134
SLAUGHTER PEN
Germans Making: Terrible
Sacrifices in Great Effort
to Take Verdim. |J|
BUTCHERY BEYOND®
HUMAN IMAGINATION
Attacka on Verdun Front, East of
Mause, Continued With Undimin
ished Violence—iRavine Below Vaux
8cene of Carnage, Whioh Has Satu
rated Ground With Blood—French
Retain Possession of Fort.
Latest reports received by tho
British admiralty are declared to
show that the German iosaei in the1",
Jutland naval battle comprise two
battle cruisers, one at least and'
probably two battleships, four •.
light cruisers, eight destroyers and
submarine. British officers Iden
tify the two battle cruisers a« the.**
Hindenburg and the Lutzow.
What apparently Is the expected"
Russian offensive on the eastern
front, calculated to relieve the'
pressure on the Italians and..
French, has begun along the line
from the Pripet to the Roumanian
border.
possible for progressives to come back
to the party. Paris, June 5. With undiminished
Roosevelt's Power Recognized. violence the Germans continued their
It Is recognized that Colonel Roose- ..
velt can prevent the nomination of'***•
There is virtually no let-up la
the German effort to push back
the French lines about Verdun.'.
The crown prince's troops returned.:'
to the attack again last night.*
They were unsuccessful, Paris de-,
clares.
should he lront east of the Meuse.
attempt to go further than this, and, Th* war office report says these aa
as some say, "scratch the whole tick
et." the convention would be very
4
Tne battle cruiser Seydlitz was
*. ••w.C'rai
one oi tne uerman vessels waiui
suffered heavily In the Jutland en
gugement, according to reports re-^
celved in Denmark. (H-
alon* V«rdott
saulu were unsuccessful.
The Germans attacked French poal
ttona in the region of Vaux anif Dam- f®*
loup. Between tha front and the vil-
t.
In the vicinity of Douaumont that*
was heavy artillery lighting.
Unsuccessful German raids war* an
dertaken in the Voagea. ft
fo­
lage of Damloup, the German oneaavr*
was severe. The French ItlU
^possession of Fort Vaux. .. 'ri
Advance to Certain Daath*
In their attacks on Fort Vaux, one of
the outlying defenses of Verdun, alqns 4
the front east of the Meuse, the Ger
mans are hurling their Infantry ia
masses so cuiuyact that the ih'al rank*
are obliged to advance to certain
death.
The assaulting columns debauch
from the village of Damloup below tha
fort and separated from it by a ra- (If
vine, which they are obliged to cross
to attain the slopes near the forts. For
three days this spot has been the
scene of carnage which has saturated
the ground with blood.
Butchery Surpasses Imagination.
One German column advanced no
farther than the bottom of the ra
vine. The front ranks pushed on by
those behind, fell as fast as they
reached the dead line, swept by tha
French quick firers.
As they toppled over others came on
to take their places and fall In turu.
French officers, altho hardened to
the worst sights of war, declare tho
butchery there surpasses imagination.
Turks Drive Russians Back.
Constaninople, via London, June 5.—
Frenoh Attacks Break Down.
Berlin, June 5.—Repeated attacks by
masses of French infantry againnst
German positions on the Verdun front,
east of the Meuse, broke down wttb
heavy losses, the war office announces.,
Great Success For Ruaaians.
Petrograd, via London, June 6.—«
Russian forces have won great suc'
ces»es along the front from the Pripet,
marshes to the Roumanian frontier,
according to an official announcement^
It Is stated that the Russian/took U,
000 prisoners.
German Landaturm Ordered.
London, June 5.—A Reuter dispatch
from Zurich says that members of tha
German landeturm, class of 1917, who
are living abroad, have been ordered to
return home immediately.
(The landaturm is a home defense
force, which includes in addition to
trained soldiers between the ages of 36
and 45, all those between the ages of
IT and 39, who have received no mili
a a
British Seize American Mail.
Berlin. June 5.—A dispatch from The,
Hague says the Holland—American^'
liner Noordam,• which arrived at Rot-!
terdam on May 28, from New York,
was compelled by the British authori
ties to leave all her mail at Falmouth."
Auatriana in Further Gaina.
Vienna, via Berlin and wireless to
Sayville, June 5.—Notwithstanding
The program for the day will be In- staunch resistance by the Italians.- the^
I Austro-Hungarian troops have mad»»
formal.
I further gaina in their offensive, the
war office announced today. Tester*
diy &6P0 prisoners were taken. Egge
Tl- i:
