Oregon Historical Society
iCouip . 207 becond St
"Ashland Grows While Lithla flows"
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lilhia Springs'
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, JUNE 5,' 1916
NUMBER 4
Concession
Committe Busy
M. E. Driggs and Harry Hosier, the
committee on concessions for the.
Springs Dedication Celebration,, have
been busy all day today working out
plans for the locations of concessions,
both in the park 'and on the streets
of the city. These locations will be
Bold and the money will be used to
defray the expenses of the celebration
An especially low rate will be asked
for eating stands, as the visitors must
be fed. Here Is an opportunity for
the church societies to make some
money, and any Individual can get a
concession of this kind and undoubt
edly make a good deal more than
double day wages. Here is also an
opportunity for the schoolboys to get
their brains working to devise some
sort of a sport, like throwing base
balls at nigger babies, and thereby
make a good-sized piece of pin money.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
The Commercial Club meets
3 tonight, with business of vital J
Importance to 'come up, Includ- $
8 lng the report of the committee $
on reorganization. A full at- $
i tendance is urged. Eight o'clock ?
3 sharp. S
3
Vining Offerings
Of the Week
Monday.
Tonight's attraction at the Vining
Is another of the "31uebird" photo
plays which are creating such a fa
vorable Impression upon the Ashland
motion picture loving public. "John
Needham's Double," with Tyrone
Power In the stellar role, Is a thrill-
Temporary stands or concessions of ; jng gtory of plot and Intrigue with a
any kind will not be permitted in any baffling dual Impersonation gained
part of the city or parks without a
permit from the city recorder, and he
will not, according to the ordinance,
Issue any except on the order of the
chairman of the committee on conces
sions, M. E. Briggs. The cost of the
concessions will depend upon the lo
cation and what Is Intended to be
sold.
by a marvelous photographic trick
ery. Tyrone Tower acts the dual role
of John Needham and Joseph Nor
bury, two men who look alike, and
In the play gives himself drugged
wine, drops dead to the floor, ex
changes clothing with himself and
walks out of the room leaving his
own body lying on the floor.
Tuesday.
rHudy li'lUSlCdiC nura coming on two successive nights
is an exceptionally uuracuve ui
news to the movie fans, as the work
of the two brothers is a much dis
cussed question as to superiority and
i an nnnnrtnnltv will be eiven for close
enjoyed a piano recital Friday even- . Q Tuesday nieht Dus-
Musicale
Much Enjoyed
A large and appreciative audience
ing at the Congregational church, in
Chautauqua
Twelve Days
July 7-18
Great Attractions
Including.....
International Operatic Company,
Skibinsky, the great Russian vlo-..
t ' linlst, Balmer's Kaffir Boy Choir,
Comus Players, Ju lge Wahnaroak
er of the Ohio Supreme Court, Lou
Beatichamp, known by millions,
who says things of worth In a way
whiph rnmnpTa vnn tn inuti
' Many other attractions, Includ-
lng Prof, Larimore and his two
daughters.
Tickets $2.25 II Bought Soon J
24th Animal Session, Ashland X
i New Yot k City Marine Band f
Mil TXT TTTTTTTTtT
PAG Eil XT Fill DA V. O
The weather man has a great $
I i $ big smile on and the delayed pa-
$ geant will be gloriously present- ?
S ed Friday evening, June 9, In 5
S Lithia Park and the auto camp1. S
& All friends of the Civic Club
Q should rally to its patronage.
S Since the postponement the
? Medford dancers and partlci- ?
S pants, 150 in number, have been 3
'$ working hard and will present
'? a most polished performance. ?
? Beautiful costumes, wonderful 3
i lighting effects and the Incom- S
parable scenic setting afforded
$ by the Ashland park will make ?
an entertainment well worth $
S while. $
Attractions For 1916 Chautauqua
Promises Greatest Assembly Yet
tin Farnum and Wednesday William
which Elizabeth Will Goodman Pre-Farnum wlu appear In leadfng roie8
ented her pupils. of exceptionally strong photoplays.
Miss Miriam Gregg gave a reading. Qn Tuesday Dugtln Farnum comeg ,
In her Inimitable style and was heart- TN CglJ p cumerlands," a
Hy encored. ,! story replete with red-blooded action
"Dolly Darling," sung by Zelda nd heart )ntere8t fUmed fnjm the
Monroe, accompanied by Inez Monroe" by char,eg Nevme Buck n
on the piano, was very pleasing - q an e,uborate detall of plc.
"The Roseblrd," sung by Rob ley Ned and dramatic effect the gtory
Ellis and accompanied by Sybil Ellis,
was perfect in rendition.
of the feudal activities of two factions
in Kentucky, involving stirring events
ine aueis vj ver ""'of traditional Import, which find
Will and Eva Hash were good V, end ,n thfl g,ay,ng of human
was also the number by Mary ane ! beings. Spectacular in this regard
' and remarkably beautiful in natural
Wilev and George Wiley. "Marcn
Impromptu," by Low, and "Hunters' j gcenlc equipment tne production
Chorus," from aer treisenuiz, oy vou
Weber, were quite difficult and ren
dered from memory by Clifford and
Flora Putnam.
Clara Will, Inez Monroe and Sybil
Ellis played their respective duets
from memory. The trio, "Schneeg-
It will be good news to a host of
our readers to learn that the twenty
fourth annual session of the Southern
Oregon Chautauqua Assembly will be
held July 7-18, inclusive.
Although most of the talent was
engaged last October, first-class tal
ent has to be engaged months In ad
vance and some "stars" one and two
years before filling tbelr dates.
Cbautauquas have multiplied all over
the United States, and while it Is
only forty-six yeara since the Mother
Chautauqua at Chautauqua, K. Y.,
was started by the combined efforts
of Doctor, afterwards DIshOP, Yin-
cent and Mr. Miller, there ar more
than two thousand in the United
States today. It Is an American In
stitution, which has and la doing
lockchen," by three girls, Mildred
Stevens, Clara Will and Sybil Ellis,
was one of tho Bpeclal features on the
program.
"Chiming Bells," by Inez Monroe;
"Echo In the Woods," by Eva Hash;
"Maypole Dance," by Virginia Jones;
"Cricket and Bumble Bee," by Sybil
Ellis, were thoroughly memorized
and splendidly given by pupils so
young.
The selections by Mary Jane Wiley
and George Wiley, as well as Men
delssohn's "Spring Song" and "Mill
Wheel," by Clara Will, were excel
lent In tempo, style and rnytnm.
"Rustic Dance," by Clifford Putnam,
was rendered in a characteristic man
ner, and the nimble finger work of
Flora Putnam in "Peasants' Frolic,"
by Gurlitt, and "Whip-poor-will"
were very commendable.
"Melody of Love," by Englemann,
always a favorite, was well played
with good expression by Loletia Pier
son. The two numbers played by
Lyle Sams were splendid in style and
Blnglng tone. The skill and dexterity
of his fingers as well as his splendid
Interpretation were remarkable.
stands out as one of exceptional
merit.
The production presents Dustin
Farnum, the popular screen star, In a
role that suits him to the fullness of
his talents. As Samson South, leader
of the clan of Souths, Mr. Farnum
carries one in sympathetic favor
through the trials of feudal Intrica
cies to the pinnacle of success aa an
artist and on to a true love and the
end of a thrilling story.
Wednesday.
William Farnum In "A Soldier's
Oath" is the Wednesday night fea
ture at the Vining. The play Is a
gripping screen mirror of war, love,
vengeance and struggle in which the
battle of nations and the struggle of
human hearts are displayed side by
side with equal vividness. It gives
William Farnum a great opportunity
for "putting over" his great ability,
and even without the great Farnum
would rank as one of the greatest
pictures of recent months.
Roseburg Boys'
Band May Come
The committee on bands for the
Springs Dedication Celebration have
under consideration the employment
of the boys' band of Roseburg, but
Amnner thfi heavier numbers on the before final arrangements can be
program was the selection by Mr.
Vernon Doran and his teacher, which
was full of bass and tenor solos.
'Wandering Jew," by Burgmuller,
rendered by Lyle Sams and Mrs.
Goodman, was difficult. The oper
atic overture, "Caliph of Bagdad," by
Boeldieu, rendered by Lyle Sams
and Elizabeth Will Goodman, was
made someone must be found that
will contract to feed them three meals
a day. There are about thirty of
them and they are willing to camp.
They will bring their own bedding,
but should any of our citizens have
cots to spare they would confer a
favor upon the committee If they will
communicate with it on accommoda
tions and let them know about same.
elven excellent interpretation in
tempo, expression ana lecnnic, ma i -"o cij uesu
concluded the program. iamiues oi Koseuurg ana tneir music
is nlgniy recommended. Should any
of the citizens be willing to take any
of these boys in their homes during
this celebration It would lighten the
expense of the committee considera
bly and would be considered as a do
nation to funds necessary to pay the
expenses of this celebration.
Plant Fish in
Lithia Park Lake
A lot of young trbut1 and salmon
which have been n, aii aquaMum In
Medford for th paM few Weeks were
brought jp rsay 'antf planted In
the lake In Lithia' Park. " The fish
should attain quite a considerable
size In the roomy environs of the park
pond. j
The Ashland school district will
hold an, election on' June 19 to elect
a director to succeed G. G. Eubanks.
Mr. Eubanks has' served, thirteen
years on the board and will no doubt
be re-elected.
vast amount of uplifting by bringing
the best in oratory, music and enter
tainment to the very doors of the
people. Many of the brightest and
best men and women are now en
gaged In Chautauqua and lyceum
work.
A partial list of the talent to ap
pear at Ashland includes:
Dr. Hunsberger, Illustrated lecture
on the discovery of the South Pole.
Judge R. H. Wanamaker of the
Supreme Court of Ohio, a speaker
with a most pleasing personality, us
ing language that the average layman
can and will understand. He Is a
firm believer that our courts are too
numerous and Inefficient. Chicago
alone has more Judges than England.
He is a big success on the Chautau
qua platform.
The International Operatic Com
pany consists of rare musicians, In
cluding Tekla Farm (late prima
donna soprano with Mme. Schumann
Heink in "Love's Lottery") and four
other great artists. Only the most
popular selections (not cheap and
silly songs) will be used, and all will
be sung In English, unless otherwise
requested. An entertainment seldom
heard outside of the big cities.
Balmer's Kaffir Boy Choir, giving
a unique, Impressive and splendid en
tertainment wonderful singing sup
plemented by stories of the wild life
of Africa. Have traveled all over
Great Britain. Canada and United
States. Immense ovation given them
at the Mother Chautauqua. Nothing
like it. Visited Ashland in spring
of 1906 and made good.
The Rlner Sisters, entertainers.
Lots of fun and music with enough
of dignity and seriousness to Batlsfy
the oldest inhabitant. A "catchy"
number that will draw big and sat
isfy big. Four hundred Chautauqua
engagements in the past four seas
ons. Lou J. Beauchamp, the thinker
who makes you laugh, the humorist
who makes you think; "everybody's
friend;" one of the princes of the
American platform. Was here in
1904 and greatly pleased his audi
ences.
Comus Players, four artists of real
dramatic ability and measuring up to
the standard set for lyceum folks.
They have popularized the drama and
will give a delightful evening of
Shakespeare or adaptations from the
more modern productions. . f
Charles Zueblln, publicist, of Bos
ton, lecturer on democracy in litera
ture, education and JUfe. , y ;
. Wood Briggs, Btoty.;,teller. ; He Is
certainly a genius. .In Celling planta
tion and southern dialect atorloi.
Great authors give him permission to
use their stories. A pltasing enter
tainer. Robert Parker Miles in "Tallow
Dips." Newspaper man traveler, i.
helper of the helpless. A peculiar
mixture of Wendell Phillips, Robert
Ingersoll, Mark Twain, George Fran
cis Train and Bret Harte.
" The Skibinsky Company, composed
of a njted violinist, a wonderful so
prano and a talented pianist. Each
one has been considered a brlll'ant
attraction. The combination is said
to be one of the finest musieui or
ganizations in 'America.
Crowds Attend
Bungalow Opening
Tho Bungalow was mo&t auspicious
ly opened Friday evening, several
hundred peopel visiting the attractive
building and the tables being crowd
ed and refilled time after time from
7:30 to 11 o'clock. Among the visit
ors were several auto parties of Med
ford and valley people, and to the
out-of-town visitor The Bungalow
promises to become a favorite lunch-'
lng place.
The exterior of the great bungalow
like structure is Illuminated with
thirty-six docoratlve lights. An at
tractive sign proclaims the refectory
to be "The Bungalow." Outside and
in the building Is finished in brown
stain. Screened in on all sides with
fine mesh steel screen, the new re
freshment pavilion promises to be the
coolest place In the valley throughout
the summer.
Twenty tables which will accommo
date eight people are arranged on the
Friday Was Jonah
Day for Autoists
Two or three automobile accidents
occurred last Friday off the Siskiyou
grade, none resulting In serious in
jury to the occupants of the cars.
A. W. Walker of Medford suffered
disaster Just at the eastern city lim
its of Ashland on the Boulevard Fri
day, the car, which was driven by;
one of the women In the party, turn
ing over. A baby which was In tha
car was hurt worse than any of the
other members of the party. The car
which did Dr. Boslough faithful serv
ice for so long and which he recently
sold to T. A. Cole Is battered up con
siderably as the result of a collision
with a telophone post, no ono being
hurt, however.
Dr. Allen Moore, F. R. G. 3 , was outer edge of the dancing floor. The
a missionary among the Mohammed-' tableB ana tne chalra wer apeclally
ans and Oriental Jews for seventeen I bullt R"d are finlsneQ with a natural
years. For the past three years beiwaxeQ finish. Hanging baskets con-
baa J)eer. .director of PalcMUi? i praosi- talnlng beautiful potted plants and
tions In the United States under tbererns 8re nun rrom tne ""era ana
ausnices of the Misslonarv Education baskets of roses adorned the tables
Movement. Has held great exposi-, anJ walls.
tions in Boston and Chicago the
greatest missionary expositions ever
held In this country. Thousands
have testified that the Palestine ex
position, with Dr. Moore's realistic
lectures, has made the Bible a new
book to them. He will bring a large
number -of curios, costumes, etc.
New York City Marine Band. The
securing of this band for Its first
Dinner parties filled most of the
tables during the early evening hours
Friday. After eight o'clock a major
ity of the visitors dropped in for light
refreshments and stayed to enjoy the
dancing.
Music by a piano, tango-banjo,
and drums combination proved to be
the most "pepful" article of Its kind j
ever offered In Ashland and few were
Broom Factory
Machinery Sold
The Southern Oregon Broom Fac
tory of Ashland is no more. The af
fairs of the company, which was a
corporation In which a number ot
Ashlanders held stock, are being
closed up. Tho machinery was sold
last week to Ross Houston of Ta
coma, Wash., who Is loading It for
removal to that city. According to
V. O. N. Smith, who was one of tha
Ashlanders most vitally interested la
the project, tho only thing on which
they made money was some dye
which they bought at one dollar a
pound and sold for two owing to a
rise In price due to war conditions.
The broom Industry failed to pay be
cause of a varied number ot reasons.
It was located In a building on Third
street near the frc'ght depot.
Chief Engineer
01 S. P. Visits
Pacific coast tour is a great victory ' able t0 reslst tne enlivening strains
I which enticed them out onto the pol-
for Chautauqua. It Is a very popular
organization in New York and on the
eastern coast, and hundreds of thou
sands of people at the Atlantic beach
resorts have been stirred by their
music each summer. Two full con
certs.
Donald Bouchier, great tenor solo
ist, singing with the New York City
Marine Band.
Sylvester A. Long. Many of our
people will remember the "Lightning
ished floor.
The management received a host of
compliments upon the attractiveness
of the establishment and upon the
food and service, which was first class
In every respect. The Bungalow
steaks are culinary achlvements and
are already building up a worthy
name for themselves. Salads, sand
wiches, short orders of all kinds,
cakes, Ice cream, sundaes and Ices
and Toothpicks" man one of the and fountain drinks In all the do
finest of Chautauqua lecturers; a!nlftnoe(1 favors and mixtures are
great and burning message told in an served.
entertaining way. The management of The Bungalow
Sequoia Male Quartet, a star ag-!,n as fftr 88 ls Possible handles Ash
gregation very highly recommended, j land-made goods. Ice cream, crisp
one of the most popular features of ettes, cigars, bakery goods, lunch
the entire program. Many entertain- Roods, candles and, in fact, nearly
ment features. everything sold at The Eungalow are
Francis Labadle, reader and lm-j"n'a!e at homo" products, which
personator, especially strong in his guarantees their freshness and pur-
John D. Isaacs, chief engineer ot
the Harrlman lines, with his wife and
daughter, passed through Ashland la
private car Na.104f"Sart Jose," Sun
day evening on train 15, en route to
San Francisco and other points. Tha
party were taken from tho train at
Medford and conducted over the high
way and through Ashland's park, and"
roses were provided by the ladles of
Ashland and the secretary of tha
Commercial Club for the car. Mr.
Isaacs was delighted with Ashland's
new development work and bespoke
a great future for the city.
Ford and Dodge
Crash Together
A Ford car driven by Mr. Oatmaa
of Medford and a Dodge driven
by Tom MacEnerney of Ashland
smashed together on the Paclflo
Highway near Talent last evening,
battering both of tho cars Into wrecks
but Injuring no ono seriously.
Btorles of the French-Canadian set
tlements.' Prof. I. W. Larimore, now of Ta
coma Y. M. C. A., the great boys'
man in charge of physical clubs for
the whole assembly. Can't be beaten
anywhere. He will bring two lady
assistants.
Prof. F. Berchtold of O. A. C
have the class In literature.
Dr. E. S. Conklin of U. of O. will
also be here during the entire assem
bly. Class each morning. "Gonetlc
Psychology."
The Willamette University will
ity.
Circuit Court
Grants Divorces
Want Children
For Human Flag
All the boys and girls in Ashland
who are willing to help with tho hu
man flag feature of the Fourth of
July parade are requested to meet at
the East Side school grounds at 7
p. m. Tuesday. All boys and girls
between the awes of seven and four
teen years are wanted.
Seven divorces wore granted In the
will circuit court of Jackson county last
week. Five Jackson county couples
were freed from the chains of matri
mony Saturday morning in the cir
cuit court by Judge F. M. Calkins.
Desertion and Inhuman treatment
were the grounds upon which all of
have two leading representatives dur- i tho decrees were granted.
The casos wore: W. H. Smith vs.
ng Chautauqua.
Dr. Hunsberger and the Sir Doug
las Mawson moving pictures of the
Antartlc. The BoBton Transcript
says that these pictures are the most
wonderful travel pictures ever taken.
"For real movie thrills the Mawson
pictures would be hard to beat, and,
best of all, they are not fictitious, but
tme."
Other attractions to be announced.
Get yonr tickets early.
Extra trousers to match up, with
yonr -coat tor otherwise at f 1,6.0, up
to S. Mitchell & Whittle. " , ,, -
Mary Smith, desertion and Inhuman
treatment; Mary Aiken vs. T. D.
Aiken, desertion and inhuman treat
ment; Edna Wicks vs. O. C. Wicks,
desertion; Charles Pope vs. Charlotte
Pope, desertion (defaulted), and Ce
celia Price vs. Hugh Price, desertion.
Two others earlier in the week were
James Harrison Halght vs. Ada
Halght and Josephine Sargent vs. H.
H. Sargent.
Miss Gretchen Kraener of Astoria
has been elected teacher of language
In the Junior high school.
i Xotiro of Taxpayers' Mooting.
Notice Is hereby given that the tax
payers of Jackson county, Oregon,
will meet at tho Medford publlo
library next Saturday, Juno 10, 1916,
at the hour of 2 o'clock p. m., for
the purpose of selecting candidates to
run on tho recall ticket for one coun
ty Judge and two county commission
ers. Every taxpayer Is requested to
be present.
The opinion of a majority of per
sons present at this meeting will bo
considered as advisory In tho matter
of such selection. This meeting ls
callod upon authority of a body ot
taxpayers that met In Medford, Ore.,
on the 3rd day of June, 1916, at
which time the undersigned commit
tee was appointed.
Dated this June 3rd, 1916.
(Signed) JESSE HOUCK,
W. W. GREGORY,
' BENTON BOWER3, '
I ' T. G. BURROWS,
' ' ; GEORGE HILTON, ' '-'
' J. M. MATNET,
It M. V. MEDYNSKL
