ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
BRINGS TRADE
OKCUUttTONi A f
Dafly Average A L
for May, 1916 1)^
A Quality Newspaper for t
Virginirfs^vate^^mpaper mm?
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 5, 1916.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
TODAY'S NEWS TODAY.
ESTABLISHED 1868.
| Only Deal Attempted On
Either Side Was Spoil
fv -8 by Exposure.
Results May Turn Upon a
Few Votes in Many
Instances.
m Thero Is every prospect today that
the turn out at tomorrow's primary
election will be large, especially on
9 the Republican side where the contest
for a number of offices, state and lo
cal, has been so spirited that so far
i as can bo predicted now the result
Willi turn on a fow votes. Naturally
this; will have the effect of making the
friends of all the candidates work to
get out the voto as fully as possible.
Today tbo woods are full of rumors
and roorbachs about deals and dick
'era, but thero is not much prospeci
that theso last hour tales will have
aiiy effect upon tho voters. So far
as 1b kncwn there has been no attempt
1 to put across a deal except that made
?by the bosses of the Democratic ma
chine who planned to double cross
1 County Assessor Davis, who seeks a
Democratic nomination as the first
?step In an effort to get ro-elected, in
I fan attempt to nominate A. M. Glover
i for aheriff over his very energetic op
i ponent Win Smith. Ana all the evi
dence points to tho fact that this deal
spoiled by the early exposure of
!^the plans of the gangsters who con
{ celved it At all events the friends of
ftftth Davla and Smith have been work
ing like beavers during the past two
Rvjrefiks and Glover will have to fight
nor any success that tomorrow's elec
fltlon may give him.
Jgf On the Republican side there are a
host of BO-called slates in circulation
Sfllut^tho large number and the groat
variety of them, taken together with
jjhftli? positively wierd combinations
V some of them show is incontorvertible
proof tha'. no attempt has been made
In this county to manipulate tho elec
torate in favor of any one set of can
didates. In every Instance on state,
county and district tickets the nomi
Ifr nations are squarely up to the voters.
j Theirs must be the decision and upon
tigtheir wisdom in Bolecting the ticket
?will depend absolutely the chance for
victory at the November general elec
I tions.
That being the case it is important
that thero be a full turn out or Re
publicans. The future of tho party in
the county and the state may hang up
ton the amount of party loyality that
Is shown tomorrow.
Eleventh Call For
Dr, J. C. Broomfield
W '
^Dr. John Calvin Broomfield, for teu
years pastor of the M. P. Temple in
this city, was again called to the pas
torate yesterday at a congregational
meeting of the church held at tho
morning service. E. C. Frame was
appointed chairman of the moating
and W. W. Conaway was named as
delegate to the Pittsburgh M. P. Con
ference to be held in September and
J. C. Robinson was made alternate.
The delegate was instructed to ask for
the return of Dr. Broom fiold.
Dr. Broomfield was absent form tho
city yesterday, having delivered the
baccalaureate sermon before tho Glen
grille Normal School yesterday morn
ing and addressed tho Young Men's
and Young Women's Christian Asso
ciations in the evening.
Last night a splendid program was
renderod by the church choir under
the direction of Prof. Louis Black.
NO ALLIANCES IN
VEACH CANDIDACY
Candidates for Sheriff Nom-|
ination Being Generally
Supported.
W. H.1 Veach whOBe candidacy for
the Republican Domination for sheriff
has won for him many friends was in
the city today for a short time meet
ing friends and attending to business.
Mr. Veacrt said to people who talked
with him. that ho believed the primary
campaign ended Saturday night and
that tho verdict is now in the hands
of the Republican voters of Marion
county.
Some of his friends showed Mr. I
Veach an alleged "slote" which was j
published in this morning's issue of
the Times but it did not interest him I
a great deal. Mr. Veach became a
candidate for the nomination at the
earnest solicitation, of some of the
very best Republicans in the county
and he was kept free from alliances
of any character. He nas reason there
fore '.o believe that he will have the
support of all Republicans regardless
of their sympathies with respect to
other candidacies.
He did say, however, that through
out tho campaign he JUs fought his
own fight and as sought to make alli
ances with no men or faction. As a
consequence of this independent ac
tion ho has assurance that he will get
support from Republicans of all shades
of belief on the issues that divide sent
iment on state and local candidacies.
ANQIHER BIG WEEK
IN THE I
Chance For Those Who Fell
Short of a Bonus Ballot
Last Week.
This is "Opportunity Week No. 2"
in the West Virginians 7.000 Club. So
many new members are just entering
the club, and as Quite a number of the
men and women already nominated
will ge busy for the first time this
week and put forth personal effort to
ward winning their share of the J3,
200 in prizes, the management decided
to grant the numerous requests for
an extension of Opportunity Week and
allow the offer to run over another
six days,
Opportunity Week No. 2.
The Offer this week is identical with
the offer of last week. With each Ave
yearly subscriptions or their equiva
lent a bonus vote ballot good for fifty
thousand extra votes will bo given.
The subscriptions may be either ola
or new, for any length of time. You
need not wait to secure all your sub
scriptions for a club before turning
in. unless you wish. You can turn
them In ono at a time, and as soon as
you have enough for an Opportunity
Week Club, the bonus ballot will be
issued and delivered to you.
Those club members who may have
turned in several subscriptions last
week but failed to win a bonus ballot,
will receive full credit for their sub
scriptions during this week. For in
stance i? you turned in three yearly
subscriptions last week, you will re
ceive credit for those as part of a club
under this week's offer.
No List Today.
Owing to limited amount of space in
today'n issue tho list of club members
and theh respective standing does not
appear. Tomorrow it will be published
in full. Watch for it.
The Weather.
West Virginia?Partly cloudy to
night and Tuesday. Probably showers
and thunder showers Tuesday.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F; P. Hall, Observer.
Temperature at 8 a. m. today 62.
Yesterday's weather clear; temper
ature, maximum 78; minimum 54; pre
cipitation none.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAM
RECEIVED AT 69Q R 114 BLUE 4 EX
WHEELING, W. VA., 3:05 P. M., JUNE 3, 1916.
EDITOR WEST VIRGINIAN:
FAIRMONT, W. VA*
PLEA8E PUBLI8H IN PROMINENT PLACE IN PAPER TODAY, IF
TOO LATE, MONDAY. JA3. K. HALL, WHEELING, W. VA., YOU
HAVE BEEN MISINFORMED ABOUT THE GERMAN AMERICAN
ALLIANCE INDORSING MR. J. G. HEARNE, REPUBLICAN CAN
DIDATE FOR CONGRESS AT THEIR LAST MEETING AS THE
RULES OF THE SOCIETY PREVENT THE ENDORSEMENT OF ANY
POLITICAL CANDIDATES. WHAT DID OCCUR WAS THAT SOME
OF THE MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY SPOKE IN FAVOR OF MR.
HEARNES CANDIDACY. THE GERMANS OF WHEELING KNOW
MR. HEARNE'S RECORD AS A REPRESENTATIVE IN THE LEGIS
LATURE AND A CITIZEN OF WHEELING AND | AM SURE THAT
HE WILL GET THE REPUBLICAN GERMAN VOTE OF THIS COUN
TY ALMOST TO A MAN. RESPECTFULLY,
C. W. BENTE, EX EDITOR DEUTCHE ZEITUNG.
3:33 P. M.
Through error on our part the name of J. G. Hearne was signed
to letter published In our issue of May 31st. It should have been
Jaa. K. HalL
THE WEST VIRGINIAN.
ROOSEVELT BOOM
HUGHES STOCK IS RISING
A FLURRY FROM
WISCONSIN
Art Young, The West Virginian's famous cartoonist at the Chicago convention, here sketches the expres
sion on the faccs of four candidates?as they must look, Young says, from the talk he has heard among the dele
gates. None of these boys are on han d but Weeks. LaPolletto Isn't in tho fray in person, but he's a big storm
cloud looming behind the Wisconsin and North Dakota delegates. And not all politicians are devoid of a sense
of humor?as is evidenced by the fac t that George Ade, impressario of slang, is a delegate form Indiana.
A YOUNG OUTLOOK ON G 0. POLITICS.
HOLD UP ACTION
ON OLD Mill SITE
City Commissioners Will
Visit Building With Own
er Wednesday.
At a meeting of the city Board of
Affairs this morning, the Board was
requested by Marcellus Joliffe to hold
off on it's decision in the matter of the
old mill property on Jackson street
and Cleveland avenue. The Board
had previously been asked through a
petition signed by residents of the sec
tion in which the building stands, to
have tt ? "fire trap and unsanitary i
building" either torn down or remov
ed Removal, on account of tho di
lapidated condition of tho structure!
would be almost impossible. Acting j
on the request of Mr. Js'.iffa, the Board !
set aside Wednesday afternoon for tho
purpose of allowing the members of
the Board and Mr. Joliffe to visit the
property and to soe what is best to
be done. Tho Board will take further:
action at the regular meeting to be i
held next Monday.
Another petitiou, this time from the |
citizens of Fifth street, between Lo
cust avenue and McNeely street was
presented to the Board. The petition
asked the Board to enter an order re
quiring all property owners in ? that
section to take up tho present side
walks and to lay concrete ones. The
Board passed the order unanimously.
Fairmont's prize ordinance, known
as Mayor Anthony Bowen's liquor ord
inance was again put off for third
reading, this time until next Monday
morning. Street Commissioner Al-1
bert eliman notified the Board that
a car load of yellow pine wood was nec
essary to complete the repairs to the
South Side Bridge. He was authori
zed to get prices on this wood and to
report at the next meeting.
The oBard ordered Shrewsberry Mil
ler, city engineer, to show on a map j
which he is preparing of the city, all
water lines, fire hydrants, water gates
and sewer lines.
Virginia Moves to
Collect W. Va,,Debt
(By Associated Press)
WASHINGTON. June 5.?The State
of Virginia today Tormally requested
the Supreme Court to direct the Mar
shal to seize and sell sufficient of the
property of West Virginia to pay oft
the $12,393,000 judgment awarded In
settlement of the old state debt exist
ing before the division of Virginia.
The application was taken under
consideration. Only one precedent ex
lata for such rpoceeding* That was
the order by which the Marshal was
directed to sell from the North Caro
lina capital steps property enough to
satisfy a judgment on state bonds
awarded South Dakota. In that case
judgment was paid before the date of
the sal*
Elks' Committee Has Ap
proved Plans for Their
Part.
The Elks' Club building committee
at a meeting held in the home of W. S.
Black on Jefferson street, at which
were present W. S. Black, W. D.
Evans, Marshall Ashcraft, Walter Ella
son, H. W. Scott, C. D. Barry, accept
ed tentative plan for new quarters pre
sented by Architect J. C. Burchinal,
who came in person to lay the plans
before the committeo.
The plans call for a change in the
building arrangements of the Thomas
A. Deveny building now in course of
erection. This change will be mado
in the entrance on Monroe street. At
this entrance an elevator lobby is pro
posed which will be 16 by 20 feet and
will contain two elevators instead of
one as heretofore announced.
The Elks' club will take up the two
| top floors of the building. The lodge
room will be to the front, or facing
Main street, and will be two stories in
height On the top floor rear will be
the members' sleeping quarters. The
| lower floor will contain lounging rooms
which will bo provided with card ta
bles and pool tables.
It has been intimated that luncheon
will be served on the plan now in use
at the Manley Hotel. This has been
taken care of in the arrangement of
the club rooms, adjacent to which has
been placed a small kitchen.
Tho Deveny building will be, accord
ing to Mr Deveny, six stories high, but
as there has been such a large amount
of requests for offices, it is now believ
ed that it will be necessary to make
the building eight stories. Seven floors
are contemplated in the re-drafting of
the plans and it is by no means un
likely that Mr. Deveny will make up
his mind within the next few days to
order plans for eight stories.
Student Antics
Interest the Town
Herechel Wade, one of the juniors
of the Fairmont State Normal school
Saturday evening in a daring steeple
jack clfmb to the Normal school
steeple tore down tho pennant placed
there the night before by the seniors.
This was the greatest surprise to the
seniors yet. A mystery, one which
will not be solved for sometime it how
the J. 0. Watson class sign was paint
ed?over on the side of Deveny build
ing. How the students scaled the wall
or what method they used to get to
the top ot the building cannot be learn
ed but they managed to erase from
the wall the sign which heraleded to
the city that the seniors were "trav
eling seme."
An ante race in which the seniors
were chasing the juniors who carried
a goat labelled "Senior's Goat" took
place alt over the best paved streets
in the city today, and when finis was
called the juniors had quit with all
honors, the seniors having been un
able to catch them In the chase.
REAL BASE1ALL AT
S0UTHSI1E PARK
University and Wesleyan
Pitted Against Each Oth
er This Afternoon.
While the ravings of rabid fans
rock the rickety rafters of South Side
stadium, Wesleyan and West Virgin
ia, two of the keenest athletic rivals in
West Virginia collegiate circles, are
fighting for supremacy on the baseball
diamond this afternoon. Both teams
went into the game today with abso
lute confidence and keyed up to a
point where the best of baseball
should be played.
A better day iot the contest could
not have been had if made to order,
and when Umpire Beggs called the
dimano.l warriors together at 3:30
a large and cosmopolitan audience
which filled the grandstand and bleach
ers took a long draft of West Virginia
mountain air. and then exhaled the
said well-known mountain air in a col
lective and thunderous "Go to It,"
which the echo tossed back and forth
among the western hills until It died
away In the distance.
The batteries for the game unless
there is a last minute change will be,
For the University, atterner and
Curry.
For Wesleyan, Phurman and Single
ton.
Grace Church People
Had Busy Sunday
Grace Mission Study class held
their monthly meeting Sunday at 3
p. m. and discussed the interesting
topic, "The church in action." by C.
G. White, read by C. H. Bloom. Mrs.
Stanley Hasen is the action president
It was decided to conduct a public
mission sorvlce the last Sunday In
June.
The Senior C. E. conducted a fine
consecration meeting, the topic being
"Consecration of Money." The mem
bers came forward, deposited thoir of
fering and recited a suitable script
passage. The meeting was earnest
and helpful. Articles on "Giging"
were read. William Schafferman is
president.
The members and friends of Grace
Lutheran church enjoyed an Ascen
sion Day service, Sunday morning.
This was postponed from Thursday,
June 1. The hymns, anthems, and
scripture lessons were all concerning
ascension.
The sermon was based on Psalms
68:18. "Thou hast ascended on high,
thou hast led captivity captive, etc."
The place and function of thlB import
ant moment In the Savlour'B life was
explained. Pastor Kunkle urged the
importance of Impressing the "Life
of Christ" upon the life of our people.
The Junior C. E. society of Grace
church held Its last regular meeting
for the season Sunday at 2:15 p. m.
Mrs. C. H. Bloom conducted the meet
ing. Pastor Kunkle gave the parting
talk and suggested plans for the fall
But Uncertainty and Restraint are th
Dominant Factors in Chicago
Today
1 AND UTTITlEIRS CAUM
Several Ballots Will Be Required to Make the Nomination
And Anything Might Happen They Figure?.
Must Have a Harmonizer.
CHICAGO, June 5?Uncertainty and restraint w~
dominant factors here today, 48 hours before the gav
were scheduled to fall at the Coliseum and the Auditorium
for tha opening of the Republican and Progressive 55653
al conventions.
Restraint of the careful, calculating kind marked ev
move of the big and little leaders who took close scruti
of men opposed to them in the contest and made tho
minute preparations which presage the long fight and the
hard fight.
"If we can hold our crowd back until Friday or Sat
day" remarked one adroit manager of a lesser Republi"
candidate, 'we stand a mighty good show. Let these ft
fellows go out in front and set pace for first laps. Wei
begin to use gasoline when these fellows have gone L.
the stand or pit for repairs. It is not a case as so mag
seem to think of any man to beat Wilson but is a case
of the best men to reunite the Republican party. iThaf
the issue upon which this nomination finally will be 8
tied." $8
This was much the situation as the latest influx of d"
gates, alternates and camp followers took place dui
itTye |hours up to noon. If there was one man among tl
thousands that thronged the hotel lobbys and corrido
who had any definite idea of what would happen durin
the next two. or three days in connection with the a"
sorbing question of the nominee, that man was not'i
idence.
Talking without full knowledge of uninstructed <
gates, a number of leade/s declared that,
Roosevelt was out of the race;
Hughes was strong but might slump within
four hours unless he came forward with pronouncem.
of his stand,
And finally that nothing short of several ballets \
begin to tell the story.
Delegates Believe He Is the
Man to Reunite the
Party.
CHICAGO, Juno 5.?The movement
for nomination of Justice HugheB to*
day took on aspect of a genuine boom.
Arriving delegations brought evidence
of sentiment in favor of thg urlst jand
men who have been identified with the
old Guard of the Republican party de
clared that many delegates instructed
for others were ready to turn votes
to him atfer the first ballot.
The lack of controlling leadership
by the men who have composed the
old guard is emphasized on every
hand.
They expressed themselves as not
favoring Hughes for any reason of
personality but because the delegateb
bringing first hand reports of senti
ment from the state believe he can be
the harmonizer who can rehabilitate
the party and bring in the Progressive
strength. On every hand explanations
are sought of the failure of expect
ed sentiment for Col. Roosevelt to
crystalize.
A week ago those who opposed the
nomination of Roosevelt were fearful
of a stampede to him but now it is
said that is impossible. Many can not
understand what brought this change.
Republican leaders after a canvas to
day declared that Col. Roosevelt's ul
timate strength would not be more
than 200 delegates at the outside and
they believed the number would be
nearer 160.
Still Hammering
Away at Verdun
BERLIN, Jane 6?Repeated attacks
by masses of French Infantry against
Gorman positions on the Verdun front
east of the Mease broke down with
heavy losses the war office today an
nounced.
PARIS, Jane B?'With undiminished
violence the Germans continued their
attack last nlfht alone the east front,
cast of the Mease. The war office re
port* ot this afternoons says these as
sault* were unsuooesafaL
;V-- V :&?
Both Wings of Pennsyl1
Delegation Have !
ed Chicago
CHICAGO June 6.?The del
from Pennsylvania including
Brumbaugh and Penrose wings o"
party arrived today. Leaden la
Penrose delegation said there'I
been no crystalizatlon of sentlmenton
a candidate. Hi
Pittsburgh members qf the 1
wing of the delegation wore Knox 1
tons. Judge Charles L. Brown of the1
Philadelphia municipal conrt^ffi
gate, said he felt confident MKpl
could command some if not all the ]
Roosevelt vote in the Pennsyhrsii'
delegation in the event that the Cc_.
could not win.
Members of the Brumbaugh delgj
tion sail they would support the Pel
sylvania Governor so long as helper*
mits his name to be used. The second' j
choice of many Brumbaugh men is
Roosevelt but will hold a caucus to
night toi decide on plans.
The Pennsylvania *ovei_^^^
not talk of his candidacy
the number or votes he&espetetlwB
the 1st ballot. "We will know more
about that tonight when''
will hold a meeting to talk 3
er." he said. Thero was a repi
the Pennsylvania header"
Gov. Brumbaugh might with drew 1
name and release delegates wftb l
jledged themselves to ;
but this was denied.
CHICKEN8 CAUSE RO^
Pat Galecy of Mono'nganlf^
$10 and costs amounting in all;
S19 yesterday by Squire R. Leaf
ing for assault upon Mrs. Ust
whose chickens had migrate
their home roost into the back yard <
Salecy's home. He paid.
DR. HOWARD HERE.
Dr. Han? C. Howard, putor at the
Frist M. E. Church of Buckhannon and
ofrmer pastor ot the local church was
i visitor In the city today for several
hours. He attended the Wesleymn
W. V. U. game at South aid* Park this
lftcrnocn.
BRANDIES SWORN
WASHINGTON, June 6.?Lonls D.
Brandies, of Boston, today took bis
seat as an associate Justice ot the Su
preme Court, the SJd citizen to rise to
that high distinction.
