EIAO EBfMD
HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
i i an bank to- s (state bl"s) ISHff
J' -Mtiuas re & lexical g-o'l 43
xilonal- bli'a 7- rranza cv
r r l - me-l 6 Bar sir (HanJ
-t Hani a ruo:ati n ' " Copier
jt.v ,n ora ns steac Livestock steady
Vitchii irregular
WEATHER FOREC 1ST
El Pao and west Texas, fair; ew Mex
ico, fair: Arizona, fair, cooler la north.
EL PASO. TEXAS. MONDAY EVENING. JUNE 5. 1916.
DELIVERED USTWHERE CENT3 A MONTH. FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CKNT6.
KNIFE T. R. BOOM
ominicans Entrench To
ROOSEVELT ENEMIES
hj
Two Hour Engagement with
Rebels Precedes Occw
pancy of Puerto Plata.
MARINE CAPTAIN
IS SHOT, DIES
Rebels Are Now in Trenches
Outside of Monte Crisli,
Washington Hears.
ASH1NGTON. D. C, June a. I
Dominican rebels who flea from the Republican national committee pre
Pnerto Plata and Mont Cristl I"1 today to complete its hearings
V V
the approach of American marines
hae strongly entrenched themselves
outside of the latter town. A di p .ten
10 the sta e department today from
.nmis' r Russell, at Santo Doralngo, in
d.cated that the situation wis more
-enous than had been believed.
The minute's message said:
After 21 hours notice, marines were
landed on June 1 at Monte Cristi and
Puerto Plata. The fort at Puerto
"lata was occupied after resistance of
hours. One marine office" prob
ilily was fatally wounded."
The wounded marine offiesr was
'apt. Herbert J. Hh-satager, command
mtc the detachment from the brttle- J
hip Rhode Island, who died at Puerto -
Plata Jane 1. Tie was shot through
ie head while directinfc-the landing of .
MURDER CHARGE AGAINST
MOTHER. FATHF.R RRnTHFR
v.,. iAa7 u. i. it.-
, Tc-liS?- t '
z Vii8?1' reano Htn!f weZe i
ransferred to county authorities b?
the police Saturday afternoon. foUow- 'nomlee 'ouho " neTtheless pric
'.H? .'1'1Lai?,mp,HlLnLCS,nJ tlcal politicians, ready to unite on any
three persons with the murder of
Jot-g- Mendez. whose body was found
'lv Fuday morning on the doorstep
u' his home at 3V22 Central street.
Ther were arrested by city detectives
eral hours after the finding of the
uU which had been badly beaten.
Two bullet wounds, one in the head
ind the other in the back, are believed
to iiaie been the cause of death.
SCHIFF SEVERS RELATIONS
WITH JEWISH POLITICS
New York, June 5. Jacob H. Sen Iff,
'i c of the leaders of the Jewish race,
i'j' tie ded to seer relations with
nliat he termed "Jewish politics," and
j reafter do his work for his race as
prnate mdiwduaL He made this
ruuncement Sunday at the annual
ment'on of the Keeillah or Jewish
i immunity of New York He said he
iad been bitterly maligned and had
it.eied threats to become effective
I he did not renounce his opposition
tu the proposed American -Jewish con-
-.tss.
STATE LAND SALE LIST
SHOWS 7,000,000 ACRES
Austin. Tex. June 5 Approximately
" uuo 00 aires of land are in the list
announced for sale by state land com
m ?sioner on September 1st. The list
wi li be read for distribution about
Julv 10.
The school land heretofore sold, on
n 'neb irterest has not been paid to o
emoer 1st of last year. If not redetned
-Mil be included in the list.
DRUG LAW APPLIES ONLY
TO DEALERS, SAYS COURT
W..'-' it mon. D C June 5. The su-
-ii. irurt today interpreted the Har
rison fed-ral drug act of 1914, making
unlawful for any person not regis
tered jnder the law to have opfum in
is possession as applying onlj to
il i se w ho deal in the drug and not to
u."se who use it.
CIGARET IN I1BD CALSES
FIRE ALARM ON PROSPECT
Dam iec amounting to $25 was
c .E.-i b lite ashes from a cigaret
-opping on led clothes in a room at
' rtMdonce of C L. Boyaton. 620
' , i ' avenue Aside from the burn-
of b--. eral pieces ef bed clothing
d image was done.
. si-"l in the rear of a residence at
1 ,0 lrtle avenue was destroyed by
' At 5 40 oclock Monday morning.
T t orii;in of the fire is unknown.
FLOOD SlITS AGAIST
L. . GOVER.MB.T FAIL.
V i hmgton. D. C June S. Another
- npt by land owners along the ils- '
- -s ppi ner to proceed against the
en inert on account of floods ai
red to have been caused by levee
iiildmg. failed today when the en-prt-mc
court decided the Mississippi
-. er commission should not be en
j ned from constructing or repairing
vees
: : : : : -:
.;.
:- TnE D VY I.V CONGRESS
C Senate.
: Net i'i session; meets Thurs-
day
HoaH.
-: Considered miscellaneous bill
requiring unanimous consent.
Adopted conference on Oregon
; and California land grant bilL
.;.
- : : : : : :
Wai a Sharp Note To The Chicago Convention Satisfy Mr.
BUTCHERY S
Pf.QGf.ESS
TO
Will Withhold Nominations,
Awaiting Action By Re
publican Convention.
Chicago. I1L, June 5. The Progres
sive national committee today decided
to withhold nominating a candidate in
the Progressive convention until next
Saturday, awaiting the action of the
Republican convention.
The decision of the Progressives fol
lowed a speech by chairman Murdoch
In which be declared that he was for
CoL Roosevelt's nomination and woull
not "be for any non-committal candi
date at this time."
The national committee appointed a
special -steering committee" with
broad general powers to treat with He
publican leaders and also carry on a
newspaper publicity campaign. The
committee consists of Georce W. Per
kins, of New York; Gov. Hiram John-
son of California and Horace Wilkin-
son of New York.
-rruy. g delegate contests remaining
Forman announcement was made of
the withdrawal of the contest in tho
seventh Texas district, seating TV. H
Clifford and R. TV. Humphrey
The contest In the sixth Texas dis
trict was temporarily passed. With
drawal of a contest in the eighth Texas
district in which no briefs had been
filed, seated Roy B. Nichols and Wm.
Watson.
Delegations from Texas. Wyoming,
Montana and many otn r states are
here, with delegations constantly ar
riving. Dr. F. E. Shine, of Blsbee, Ariz
is here for the convention.
Some Opposition to Perkins.
Some of the Progressive leaders ex
press dissatisfaction at the attitude of
ueerse w. Perkins oi -w iotk.
rawSeT" of the Progressive part), and
especially because he extended the
ollve branch" to the Republican.
TBose who protested against making
overtures to uie KepuDiicans insistc
lay In eompelring terms to come to
litem.
Three Prosvesaive Factions.
It was made plain tbet there were
three elements among the Progressives.
First and probably a majority, are those
who prefer CoL Roosevelt and who will
" . Ji-i: .v ni . . ., t,r
man who they Delievea couia ueieai
the Democratic nominee. A second
element is composed of thos. who favor
waiting until the Republicans make a
nomination and then support that can
didate if he should be justice Hughes
or some other man they believe to have
Progressive tendencies
The third and smallest element la
made out of out and out Roosevelt
followers, the irreconciliables who will
not accept any one but the c lonel and
who boast they would not vote any
Progressive or Republican ticket which
he does not head.
Sar Sentiment la For "Father."
Theodore Roosevelt, jr arrived in
Chicago Sunday with Wm. Loeb. jr..
and mingled with the convertion crowds
in hotel lobbies. He will attend the
convention as the guest of J. Ogden
Armour.
I do not know what the convention
is going to do." said Roosevelt to
friends. "But tbe sentiment of the
country, wherever polls have been tak
en, seems to be for father."
NEW MEXICO GOLD NUGGETS
AT SAN DIEGO FAIR STOLEN
San Diego. Calit. June 5. Boldly
pocketing a $2596 tray full of gold nug
gets, part of the New Mexico exhibit at
the exposition, a orace of thieves yes
terday afternoon carelessly strolled
from the building and got away No
trace of them Bad been found by the
police up to a late hour today.
The nuggets, according to police re
port, reposed on a tray in a glass case.
The padlocked door to the case was
opened b the removal of a staple. At
tendants were kept constantl) on guard,
but tbe attention of the nearest attend
ant was diverted by one of the men
while the other did the Job,
The booty was missed at 2 p. rru,
after having been checked at noon time.
Two men. believed to be the robbers,
had been noticed about the premises for
quite a while but were not suspected at
the time and only a meager description
of them was obtained.
As the nuggets can be pounded into
other shapes, or melted up and bricked,
the police are anticipating plentv of
trouble in identifying the gold if they
find it
GLOBE MINING MAN KILLED;
FORMER PARTNER IN CUSTODY
Globe. Ariz.. 'June 3. Frank Thomp
son, a wealthy mining man, was shot
and killed on tbe main street of Globe.
William Sparks, a pioneer prospector
and former eergeant of the Arizona
ntnerera. surrendered to the authori
ties . He said Thompson had threat'
ened his life as the culmination oi a
seven year dispute over """'""4 ""
Sparks and Thompson had recently
engaged in a fist fight Their quar
rel had resulted in several lawsuits.
The two men were partners for sev
eral years. Thompson lived about an
hour after the shooting He made an
ante-mortem statement and arranged
the distribution of his propert. said
1 to be valued at about $100.00.
JUSTICE MARRIES COUPLE;
DISMISSES SEDUCTION CHARGE
Justice J. M. Deaver disposed of the
! charge brought against Manuel Prieto
i for alleged seduction by marrying
Prieto to Refugio Murillo Saturday af
ternoon. The girl testified that she had been
taken to a. local hotel by Prieto on the
nronlse that li woulri -wed her the fol-
' lowing day. but that he delayed doing
I so for a week.
IVES
W
SS
s ins
Sexton's Daughter Almost
Killed in Cemetery
House Sunday.
When Ellen Narzinsky went Into
the bath room of the sexton's home at
Concordia cemetery Sunday afternoon
6he pushed in an electric switch to
turn on the light, received an electric
shock which threw her through the
door of the bathroom into the kitchen
and rendered her unconscious for more
than five minutes She is thi daugh
ter of R. Narzinsky, sexton at the
cemetery. . .
At the Electric Railway company's
office Monday it was reported that a
heavily charged trolley feed wire had
been broken by the windstorm Sunday
afternoon on the Alameda avenue
line, near Magoffin, and it is believed
that this wire heavily charged the
electric light wire which connected
with the Narzinsky home.
Much Excitement.
The accident occurred Just before
the Woodmen of the World started
their memorial and monument un-
I excitement at the cemetery. The Jar-
zir.sKy giri, wno is i jeara um. pu
gone Into the bathroom to wash her
hands and. as the room was dark be
cause of the storm, she pushed the
button switch to turn on the bathroom
light. ,
Her mother heard her scream and
saw her stagger from the room, fall
ing unconscious against an oil stove
in the kitchen. She was badly "jurned
on the hand, left leg above the knee
and was bruised on the forehead
where her head 6truck the stove as
she felL She was confined to her bed
Monday morning but her mother re
pcrted that she was much improved.
It was also reported that a number
of residents in the vicinity of the
sexton's home, at Madera and Stevegs
streets, nao, receivea sngai ?""
J from electric connections n their
nomes.
ARIZONA WOULD FORCE REST
ONE DAY A WEEK ON PEOPLE
Phoenix. Xrlz.. June 5. Opposition
to the proposed law requiring all em
ployes to be glveti one day's rest in
seven, appear to be crystalizing
throughout the state. The Presby
terian church of Phoenix has refused
to endorse the measure and the Miami
Smelter-men's union has passed reso
lutions against it.
Miners and smelter workers assert
that the bill would work a hardship
upon them in times of prosperity Hke
the present, when they are paid ranch
higher wages than usual, ano. by
working seven days a weekt are able
to lay up funds against periods of un
employment. As domestic servants are not ex
cepted from the provisions of the
measure, tbe maid who has her after
noon off, would still have to take a
full day off once a week.
A person might be out of work for
a year and get a job good for only a
limited period, jet he would have to
stop and rest a day after working
si
The bill was drawn by Dr. Ray U
Harker. of the First Methodist church.
Phoenix, by Dr. W. W. Wilkinson, a
member of his congregation, and sev
eral other local persons Initiative
petitions arc in circulation. .
ARIZONA CLUBS WILL IMPORT
LIQUORS AT THEIR PERIL
Phoenix. Ariz, June 5. Clubs and
lodges that import liquor into Ariaona
for the "personal use" of members at
banquets and similar functions, do so
at their peril, says attorney general
Wiley Jones in an opinion transmitted
to Clement IL Coleman, county attor
ney of Yuma.
The county attorney Inquired upon
behalf of a Yuma organization which
he did not name but described as "one
of the most highly respected organi
zations in the state." In his reply the
attorney general advised that no club
attempt to Introduce liquor without
first seeking a judicial interpretation
of the law. He said In part:
"We can both readily foresee that if
the plan were Indiscriminately adopt
ed throughout the state, though many
club members would seek to keep with
in the law, there would arise the gross
est violations of the statute, notwith
standing the efforts and desires of
well-intentioned club members. I am
examining decisions upon that very
question which you propose, but I find
no law of another state which con
. tains Jansuage exactly the same -as
our own."
TALKED COUNTY POLITICS;
VALLEY MEN IN JUSTICE COURT!
A hearing is in progress this after-
noon in justice J. IL Deavers court of
a case in which Willie Clark, of San
Elizano. is charged with assault to ,
murder tn connection with a fight said i
to have occurred in San Elizario in ,
which Clark and Bias Loya were prin
cipals. The altercation is said to have
arisen after a discussion of county poll
tics. Loja alleged that he was cot i
on his neck ard ear.
HELD FOR UNCLE SAM FOR
CASHING WRONG MONEY. ORDER
Arturo Ramirez was arrested by the
police on South Bl Paso street Sunday
night on a warrant charging him with
obtaining money under false pretences.
Ramirez was confined in the city Jail
pendinir transfer to the federal au
thorities. It is alleged that, by using another
name, he obtained a letter at the gen
eral delliery window of the postoffice
containing a money order issued to an
other person, and then cashed the or-de'r.
Til
ICKENS FRENCH
WITOH GERMAI. BLOOD
SUMS EARTH
ST
German First Columns Are
Pushed From Behind to
Certain Death.
FRONT RANKS ARE
PILED IN RAVINE
As They Collapse, Other
Ranks Are Pushed For
ward; They, loo, Die.
PARIS, France, June 5. In their at
tacks on Fort Vaux, one of the
outlying defences of Verdun along
the front east of the Meuse. the Ger
mans are hurling their infantry In
masses so compact that the first ranks
are obliged to advance to certain
death.
The assaulting columns debouch from
the village of Damloup, below the fort
and separated from It by a ravins
which they are obliged to' cross to at
tain the slopes near the fort. For
three days this spot nas been the
scene of carnage which has saturated
tbe ground with blood.
One German column advanced no
further than the bottom or the ravine.
The Ironic ranks, pushed oa by those
behind, felt as fast as they reached the
deatHae-swept by tbe-Frencl.quleltttre
As they toppled over, others came on
to take their places and fall in turn.
French officers, although "Sardened
to tile worst sights of war, declare the
butchery there surpasses imagination.
Germana Continue Assaults.
With undiminished violence the Ger
mans continued their attacks Sunday
night along the Verdun front east of
the Meuse. The war office report of
this afternoon says these assaults were
unsuccessful.
The Germans attacked French posi
tions in the region of Vaux and Dam
loan. Between the fort and the village of
Damloup the German offensive was
particularly severe- The French are
still in possession of Fort Vaux.
In the vicinity of Douaumont there
was heavy artillery fighting.
Unsuccessful German raids were un
dertaken in the Vosges.
Ferodoua Flghtlnc Recounted.
The text of the statement says:
"On tbe left bank of the Meuse there
has been an intermittent bombard
ment. East of the river artillery fight
ing has continued with extreme vio
lence in the region of Thiaumont and
Douaumont. The Germans continued
their attacks at Vaux and Damloup
Sunday night. To the northwest or
Fort Vaux. on the slopes of the Pumin
wood, repeated German advances were
checked by our fire. The assaults
between tbe fort and the village of
Damloup also were broken.
There was ferocious fighting be
tween the garrison of Vaux fort and
the detachment of the enemy attempt
ing to penetrate this position. Al
though the enemy used flaming li
quids, our troops prevented them from
making any progress
Trenche Coat and Recovered.
"In the Vosges an attack by the
eenmy at a point west of Carspach
resulted in their becoming possessed
of three trenches. Shortly after we
delivered a counter attack and drove
the Germans from all positions they
occupied."
The War At a Glance
THERE is virtually no let-up in
the German effort to push
back the French lines on the
Verdun front northeast of the fort
rets The crown prince's iroops
returned to the attack Sunday
night, driving against the French
between the fort and the -village of
Damloup. The were unsuccessful.
Paris declares.
Tho Turkish war office claims
further successes against the Rus
sian army operating west ot Brze
rum. The Russians, who recently
were compelled to evacuate Mam
makhatum, 50 miles west of Brze
rum, have been forced to retreat
some 25 miles, altogether, accord
ing to Constantinople, sustaining
large losses.
The battle cruiser Seydlitz was
one of the German vessels which
suffered heavily in the Jutland en
gagement, according to reports re
ceived in Denmark. These allege
that the Seydlitz, a dreadnought
cruiser of 35,060 tons, was seen on
the rooming after the battle steam
ing south off the Jutland coast, in
a badly damaged condition and
pursued by British warships.
An Edinburg dispatch says that
survivors of British destroyers en
gaged in the Jutland fight, declare
they are convinced that In a massed
attack of torpedo craft they sent
the German dreadnought Hinden
burg to the bottom.
A list issued by the British
admiralty shows that 333 British
officers were lost in the naval
battle.
BIG SHIP HiENHURG IS SUNK;
SHIP L1JTZ0W ALSO WRECKED
British Lost 333 Officers in Jutland Sea Battle But Claim
German Losses in Ships Exceeded England's; Ger
mans Assert British Cruiser Euryalus Added
to List of British Ships.
LONDON, Eng, June 6. The admi
ralty announces S33 officers were
killed In the Jutland sea battle.
The list includes practically all officers
of the cruisers Queen Mary, Invincible.
Indefatigable. Defence and Black
Prince, the destroyers Tipperary. For
tune. Ardent. Nomad, Nestor. Turbulent
and Shark.
All officers, except one. of the cruiser
Warrior were saved, with all officers
of the destroyer Sparrowhawk. On
other ships. S3 officers were killed and
22 wounded-
British oCfcers of the fleet identify
two of the big German warships sunk
as the Hindenburg and the Lutzow.
Survivors arriving at Edinburg from
the destroyers are convinced tbey sank
the Hindenburg, pride of the German
navy. They say she was struck by
four torpedoes and torn to pieces by the
destroyers.
Admiralty's Version of Battle.
The text ( a British admiralty statement
of Sunday foliowa
Cntll the commanderiachief has had
time to consult the officers ensaeed and
write a full description, any attempt to ctTe
a detailed hiatory of -the naval eacaacmont
which besan oa the afternoon of May St.
and ended In the aaominc hoars of Jane 1,
voaM eTWenUy be premature. Bat the re
sults are quit plain.
"The trand fleet came la touch with the
German high aeaa fleet at 3.M on the aft
ernoon of May 11. Tbe leading ships of the
tro fit rri? oa a Tlroreus ftEht. In
, which the battle eruiaara. fast batlUshtttt
anp suB?aiarx cnti. u wh f m-- .
Both Loe SeTeie.
Tha losses were aavora on both aides, out
-wfcear the mala toe Ihe BrHJah fl
cam into eontaat with tho German hlth
aeaa fleet, i. very oriel ort4 mtllcnl to
compel ton latter, whe hai been severely
punished to seek refoit In their protected
waters. Thla mneer was rendered Pt
ble -by low vlatbJUty Althoagh tha eraml
fleet were now and then able to lain a
momentary contact with their opponents, no
continuous action was poealMe They cou
tlnaed the pursuit onUI th Ueht had wholly
failed while the British deatroyers were awe
to make a anccessful attack upon the ene
my, durlne the nlebt.
Jelllcoe'a Fleet Remained on Scene.
Meanwhile, admiral Sir John Jeuteoe.
ha-rtnc driven the enemy Into port, retaraea
to the main acene of the action and aconrea
the aea In search of disabled vessels. Br
roon the next day Jone 1 it became evi
dent there was nothlnc mr to be .done lie
returned, therefore to his bases miles
. -refueled his fleet and on the evening
i of Jane J. was again read to pot to ' -
fn.rT.ufT5 TherTl. ni nr 'o'a'dd to or
Tbe British losses 1U" aireu -
HEniMHSSNE
ESSIEHAI
Awnings were blown loose from their
moorings. ines were torn down, young
trees bent double and sand was blown
into houses, eyes and. ears Sunday
when a regular "big wind" blew during
the greater part of the daj
The wind started early Sunday morn
ing and was blowing hard by noon,
continuing through the afternoon un
til after sunset. The average velocity
of the wind was given at the weather
office as 28 miles an hour, but the wind
reached a maximum velocity of 50 miles
an hour during the day.
WIND BLOWS BIG WINDOW
IN; WOMAN IS INJURED
A large bay window in the front
room of her home at 1322 San Anto
nio street was blown in Sunday morn
ing and Mrs. F. E. Hall, wife of Sergt.
T E. Hall, or the Seventh Infantry,
sustained a number of severe cuts and
bruises. .
Mrs. Hall, at the time of the acci
dent, was lying on a couch beneath
the window which collapsed. She was
removed to another room of the resi
dence and physicians summoned.
She was found not to be seriously
injured. The window was an excep
tionally large one. covering nearly
half of the space of the front room.
NEW YORK GIRL IS KILLED
IN AUTO WRECK IN ARIZONA
Flagstaff. Ariz, June 3. Miss Rose
Heringer. of New York, was instantly
killed in an automobile accident which
occurred In Dead Man's flat, ou the
Grand Canyon road, 35 miles north .or
Flagstaff. The car. which was driven
by B. A. Cameron, of Flagstaff, skidded
on loose cinders and overturned. Mr.
Cameron. Miss Gladys Greene, of Bos
ton, and Miss Louisa Selden Firth, or
New JV'ork. who were also In the car,
escapMl Injury Miss Heringer was
Miss Frith's maicl-
WILSON" TO INV1TK LATIN
NVTIONS TO .SVX ANTOMO
Washington. D. C, June 5. President
Wilson today signed a resolution
passed by congress authorizing him to
invite Spain and Latin-American coun
tries to participate in an exposition in
19IS celebrating the 200th anniversary
of the founding of San Antonio. Texas.
UOISB IDOITS KI5PORT
ON LANO IIKCLIJIING BILL
Washing ton, D. C, June 5. The
house today adopted a conference re
port on the bill to reclaim and sell
$30,000,000 worth of land granted to the
Orearon and California railroad. It
a was adopted last week by the senate.
ARMY
suUract from the latest account pnbtlabed
by the admiralty. The enemy loves are less
emay to determine. That the acets thay
have shren to the world are false Is cer
tain, and wo cannot yet be sure of tbe exact
German Ie More Heavy.
"But from aoch evidence as haa cease to
our knowledge, tho admiralty entertajasna
doubt that tho Oernian losses are henvsar
than tha British, not merely relatively to
tbe strength of the two fleets bat absolutely.
There seems to be the strongest crosrad
for rappaotag Included In the German less
ee are two battleships, two dreadnought
battle eratoers of the moat powerful type,
two of the latest light crnlaera. the Wies
baden and Elbleg. a 'lght cruiser of Use
Roatock type, the light cruiser Vanrenlab,
nine destroyers and a submarine."
Brltlah Armtred Cruiser Burned.
Berlin. Germany, June 5. An official
statement issued by the German ad
miralty today says-
"On May 31 one of ont- suomannes
off the Humber sank an English tor
pedo boat destroyer which, according
to a survivor, was the Tipperary.
Mn-t. ta-ft.laft. ArvnfiMi oniiwr Knrva-
lus was set tfire by our forces during
the battle of Skagernx anc was com
pletely burned out."
Brltlah Fleet Powerful.
Treaintv-aix of admiral Jelllcoe's most
powerful battleships including six of' --- --...-JVW
.t modern. Oueen Elizabeth ee of sentiment n favor of the
class, and the entire British flying jurist and men who have been identi
wing. composed of battle crse2 1 with the "old guard" of the Re
in every respect except armor prsMec- ... j j .. -
tion to dreadnoughts were engaged In Publican partv declared that many
all save the early stages of te day delegates Instructed for others were
battle in tbe North Sea, according u TeAy to tJrn heir -v jies to hin. Ut
an authoritative account- The account , tne first balIot
meets clearly what is characterised as i The expre-s th, n-eli- as .o .r
the British attempt to explain defeat i justlce HJgh-- b-cause delegates
by the statement that ta Gerxostn rce orfngmg first hand reports bil.eie
in acion ware mueh larger than ute ne cmB be tlxe harmonlxer wao can
British Many details- however, ae bHb- jh the PrgrestH strength.
snnnreasejf for strategic re isons. i -w. Ai- v..m Tniftnaifas ar-a
I British Excelled In Fighting; Power.
The fleet thus assembled OTrnasseil
in tonnage ana weisui , nv ago those who opposed the nomtna
the German force engaged, was at , tJm of ROOSeveIt were fearful of
least equally Modern, -and ."-"f stampede to htm. bur now It la said
speedier than the squadron or German , tfcat Jg injpoggjMe. Many cannot un
predreadnougnts which, lunrbertBE . derstanj what brongkt this change,
along at 18 or 19 knots, was soon left GnI . for Koovelt.
far to the rear by the swifter con- 1 Republican leaders. After a canvtss.
sorts, out of the main action. 1 gedgjed CoL Roosevelt's ultimate
The recital leaves unto'd strength would not be more than 200
of damages sustained by German units deleiteB anj they believe the num
and the losses in personnel. Jj s , outd be nearer 15u delegates. It
nothing of the brlllhncy in battle tac- , ,72rld that the remaining 750 or
tics displayed by admirals " ' I delegates would not tote for him
Hipper, the smoothness and decision . "" cJreumstances
with which the Oerroan 'WM B; D"eV Are f.r Harmony,
vered and the dd&w"U.r.th itI. " wasointed out that woen state
?r" !?KX?'Lt2r. were selected ,t wa
were largely responsible Tor the
AU "... ". , :u..
achievements of the Germans.
Petrograd. Russia. June 5. Russian
forces have won great successes along
the front from the Pripet marshes to
the Rumanian frontier, according to
an official announcement issued here
today. It is stated that the Knsslans
took 13,000 prisoners.
GERMAN LANDSTURM CLASS
IS CALLED OUT BY GERMANY
Lonaon. ang, June a. .v reawr uit-
patch from Zurich,. Switzerland, .says
that members 01 tne uerman tana-
.tnrm class of 1917. who are bring
abroad, have been ordered to return
home immediately.
AUSTRIAN TROOPS TAKE
5600 ITALIAN PRISONERS
Vienna, Austria, June o. Notwith
standing staunch resistance by the
Italians the Austro-Hungarian troops
have made furtner gains in their of
fensive, the war office announced to
day. Saturda iSOO prisoners were
taken.
GKnJIlN BATTLK CRUIsRR
IS .SER.N BADLY DAMAGED.
Ribe. Jutland, June 5 Tbe German
battle cruiser Seydliix. .badly- damaged
and with two large holes aft. was seen
Thursday. 38 miles west of the Faroe
islands, going south, pursued by Brit
ish warships.
The Sedlitz is a dreadnought
cruiser of 25,000 tons She was built
l.i 1912 and is armed with ten 11 inch
guns and 12 six inch guns.
13,011 CAPTIVES
"Everybody Should Parade
"Show the World
By JOHN M. WYATT, Grand Marshal of Parade.
THK preparedness parade to be heW in El Pago oa Tuesday. June 14, is
to demonstrate to tbe country and the world that the American peo
ple. El Paeoang in particular, are in faor of preparedness.
While our army bUl and navy bill have been passed, this is but the be
oiiminp of the preparedness program of the United States. We wish to
show that El Pao favors preparedness, and the parade is to show the worW
that El Paso is interested, and that we are will; to do our part. It may
cost some of u a sore toe to walk m the parade, but we should be willing
to endure it; our sokUeTH are enduring much more.
Tbe time is coming when wo will have universal service in this country
and El Paso showld be among tie first to show its patriotksm and its ap
proval of this by giving a monster parade.
Stampede For Rooseoelt In
Republican Convention Is
Now Thought Impossible.
VIEW HUGHES
AS HARMONIZER
Roosevelt Will Command
Voles Of 200 Delegates
Or Less, Is Claim.
CHICAGO. IIL. June 5. The move
ment for the nomination of jus
tice Hughes -today took on the
aspects ef a genuine boom.
Arriving delegations brought evi-
sonsat ot the failure of sentiment for
, CoL RooeeTeit to crystallse. A week
: litiAvn tut nooseveii wuutu vc .
strong factor and probably a candi
date. Men were chosen who were be
lieved tfc be for harmony, which lead
ers say is not synonomous with R0050
velt, and are regarded therefore, as
not f the stampedable type Th
great mass- of the delegates are un
lnstrueted and are counted on to ota
! for amy man who can wing a majou
of the Progressives back to the Re
pnMieaa fotd.
Boevelt Haa Mont Enemies.
i On every hand there seems to be a
I sentiment to avoid making the nomi
nee the campaign issue nu i "
some one oa whom Republicans . iJ
Progressives can agree so the word
will go ont to the country tb t the
partv -has been rehabilitated b the
uniting of factions which split it four
vears ago. It is realized that of all o.
the poesibiuties. Col Roosevelt has
the greatest personal following oui
at tbe same time he has the most
enemies. The Republuan '"aders
charged that many voters would be
alienated for one or more or several
reasons.
-Mlrht Defeat One or Two Men.
All forces are careful not to express
.:, . , 7.i nrmuw.it or to -AT
. te-Uhtj 'to CoL Roosevelt or ,0 aT
"""," ""r. ,0 come bcte
oosslble for PrOgress.es to come wi
into the party. It is recognlzei xnat
Col Roosevelt can prevent the naroina
tion of any one or two men who may
be urged bv Republican leaders, but
that should "he attempt to go father
than this, as some say. "scratche the
whole ticket," the convention would
be very likely to proceed v ithout Riv
ing further consideration to his views.
Pool Want Rooseveirn Dictation.
In saying that Roosevelt could pre
vent the nomination of any one or two
men. Justice Hughes is not excepted,
but those who are for him profess to
(Continued on page 2. CoL 4-
ALL STORES EXPECTED ..
TO DECORATE FOR FL G D VY
All merchants have been requested
to decorate their stores and build
ings on nag Day. Jo"? " '
preparedness, parade, which is being
planned for that day
Our Enthusiasm
33
Carranza?
