BARME DAILY TIMES
THE
VOL. XX NO. 69.
HARMS. - VERMONT, MONDAY, JUNK 5, 1916.
TRICK, ONE CKNT.
333 OFFICERS
WERE KILLED
Very Heavy List of Casual
ties for British in the
Jutland Battle
ELEVEN SHIPS LOST
PRACTICALLY ALL
German Claim of Victory Is
Discounted by the Brit
ish Admiralty
London! June 5. A total of 333 officers
ere killed in the Jutland battle, accord
ng to the liBt issued by the admiralty
o-day. Virtually all the officers of the
misers Queen Mary, the Invincible, the
efense and tbe Black Prince and from
ihe destrovers Tipperary, Turbulent
Fortune, ' Ardent, Koman, Nestor and
Shark perished. All but one officer of
the cruiser Warrior were saved, and all
the officers on the destroyer Sparrow
hawk.
The British officers' fleet, which parti
cipated in the Jutland battle and have
returned, identify the two German bat
tleships sunk as the Hindenbury and the
Lutzow.
"GERMAN LOSSES
ARE HEAVIER
THAN BRITAIN'S"
Is Statement Made By British Admiralty
in Supplementing Other Reports of
the Great Naval Battle De
clares German Stories False.
London, June" 5. A statement issued
last night by the British admiralty, con
firming previous accounts of the battle
between the British and German fleets,
reiterates that the German accounts of
the German losses are false, and that
; although the, evidence is still incom
plete, enough is known to justify stating
: that the German losses were greater than
the British "not merely relatively to the
strength of the two fleets, but absolutely."
There is the strongest ground for
believing, says the statement, that the
t German losses include two battleships,
two dreadnought battle cruisers of the
most powerful type and two of the latest
light cruisers, in addition to smaller
craft, including a submarine.
The text of the statement follows t
"Until the eommander-in-chief has had
time to consult the officers engaged and
write a full dispatch, any attempt to
give a detailed history of the naval en
gagement which began on the afternoon
of the thirty-first of May and ended in
the morning hours of the first of June
would evidently be premature. But the
results are quite plain.
"The grand fleet came in touch with
the German high sea fleet at 3:30 on the
afternoon of May 31. The leading ships
ti the two ncets earned on a vigorous
fight, in which the battle cruisers, fat
battleships and subsidiary craft all took
an active part.
"The losses were severe on both sides
but when the main body of the British
fleet came into contact with the German
high sea fleet a very brief period sufficed
to compel the latter1, who had been se
verely punished to seek refuge in their
protected waters. This manoeuvre was
rendered possible by low visibility and
mist, and although the grand fleet were
now and then able to get in a moment
ary contact with the opponents no con
tinuous action was possible.
"Tbey continued the pursuit until the
light had Wholly failed, while the British
destroyers were able to make a success
ful attack upon the enemy during the
right.
"Meanwhile, Admiral .Sir John Jelli
coe, having driven the enemy into port,
returned to the main scene of the action
nnd scoured the sea in search of disabled
vessels. By noon the nest day, June 1,
it became evident there was nothing
more to be done. He returned therefore
to his bases, 400 miles away, refueled his
fleet and in the evening of June 2 was
again ready to put to sea.
"The British losses have already been
fully stated. There is nothing to add to
or subtract from the latest account pub
lished by the admiralty. The enemy
losses are less easy to determine. That
the accounts they have civ-en to the
world are false is certain, and we can
not yet be sure of the exact truth. But
from such evidence as has come to our
knowledge the admiralty entertains no
doubt that the German losses are heavi
er than the British not merely relative
ly to the strength of the two fleets, but
abo lutely.
"There seems to be the strongest
ground for supposing that included in
the German losses are two battleships,
two dreadnoughts, battle cruisers of the
nio.t powerful type, two of the latest
light crninen. the Wiesbaden and Elbing.
a. light cruiser of the Rostock type, the
light cruiser Frauenlob, nine destroyers
and a submarine.'
The pessimism which prevailed as s re
sult of the admiralty's original state
ment of losses, which is now considered
to have been neelleIy candid and con
servative in under-estimating the extent
of tbe German losses as compared with
tboe of fJrcat Britain has been great
ly lessened by the latest statement.
A dispatch from (penhagen v ru
mor are current in Hamburg that two
additional German warships than thoe
announced in the l.erman communication
the Wetfaln and the battle rruiser
T.utMw weTe sunk in the battle. A
wireles diepatcb received here Saturday
from Bvlin said the German admiralty
admitted the loss of the Weatfalen.
CRIPPLED CRUISER
PROBABLY SUNK
German Vessel SedliU, First Reported
Being Pursued by British Warships,
Now Thought to Be Destroyed.
Copenhagen, June 5. The newspaper
which yesterday reported that the Ger
man battle cruiser SeydliU was sighted
off the Fano island, damaged and being
pursued by British warships, reports it
is now believed that the Seydlitz has
been sunk. '
13,000 PRISONERS
TAKEN BY RUSSIA
Great Successes Have Been Won Along
the Front from Pripet Marshes to
Rumanian Border, Says
Petrograd.
Petrograd, June 5. -The Russians have
won great successes along the front from
Pripet marshes to tbe Rumanian frontier,
according to the official announcement to
dav. It is stated that the Russians took
13,000 prisoners.
.
BODY RECOVERED.
John Nordello's Skull Was Fractured,
Perhaps Going Over Dam.
Winooski, June 5. The body of John
Nordello, drowned in the river a week
ago this afternoon, where he had been
swimming, just below the upper dam
was found yesterday afternoon below
the lower dam, opposite the carbonizing
plant of the woolen, nulls, bv Henry Be-
dard, jr., of Hyde street, Burlington. Be-
dard had been looking for the body
around that section of the river, down as
far as the bridge below the old Athletic
park, Saturday and all day yesterday.
About 4:45 o'clock yesterday afternoon
he saw the body floating down stream,
face downward, on the north side of the
sland. He brought it to shore and noti
fied Chief of Police Barber, who in turn
notified Health Officer J. 0. Thabault,
Selectmen Arthur Manseau and Hector
Huard. Upon their viewing the body it
as ordered removed to the undertaking
rooms of A. B. Lavigne,
The body, which was badly decom
posed, had a deep gash about two inches
long on the back of the head near the
top, and the skull was crushed. These in-
uries may have bpen inflicted by strik
ing on the rocks when he dove or they
may have happened when he was carried
over the lower falls. By- witnesses who
saw the young man going down when he
as drowned, it was thought that he
ad then received injuries as he appeared
to them as if dazed. At the undertatcin,
rooms the remains were arranged for
burial and were viewed by the family
gether with many of his friends. About
o clock last evening the body was in
erred in St. Stephen s cemetery.
Ihe young maij would have been
years old next month. He is survived by
is father and mother, Sir. and Mrs.
seph Xordcllo, and two sisters. He was
in the seventh grade of the public schools
and was a favorite among his fellow
students.
FORT VAUX HELD
DESPITE FURY
OF GERMANS
Attackers Are Keeping Up
Their Tremendous Offen
sive with. Undiminished
Violence, but French War
Office Declares the Efforts
Were Not Successful
BRUNT OF BATTLE
NEAR DAMLOUP
In Vicinity of Fort Douau-'
mont, There Is Heavy Ar
tillery FightingGerman
Raids in the Vosges Were
Unsuccessful The British
Lost Ground on Ypres
Salient
rles of counter attacks, in which bomb
and bayonet played an important part,
the Canadians regained most of the lost
ground and have reorganized their posi
tions. On the Russian front violent artillery
duels are going on in the Besaarabian
and Volhynian sectors. Several Russian
infantry attacks against the Austrian
were repulsed.
The Italians in the region of 'Arsiero
are holding the Austrians from further
advances in the desperate struggle that
is going on in this region. The Austrians
with large effectives attempted to break
through the Italian line in the direction
of Onaro, but were driven back. The
bombardments are still heavy on the
other sectors of tho Austro-ltaiian front.
According to unofficial advices from
Saloniki, General Sarrail, the French
commander, has declared martial law in
the entire zone occupied by the entente
allies and the allied troops have taken
over the telegraph- offices, the lKirt and
customs house at Saloniki.
BURIAL AT WEST CHAZY, N. Y.
Charles Loso Died Sunday After Week's
Illness with Pneumonia.
The funeral of Charles Loso, whose
death at his home, 101 Maple avenue
Sunday morning at 8 o'clock, followed a
week s illness of pneumonia and complt
cations, watj held at St. Monica a church
this morning at 8 o'clock, the parish
priest, Rev. P. M. McKenna, officiating
at the requiem mass. The bearers were
Walter Loso, Clarence Loso and Stanley
Loso, brothers of tho deceased, and Mr.
Mc.Nulty, who represented the Catholic
Order of Foresters. Thi afternoon at
3:30 o'clock the remains were taken over
the Central Vermont railroad to West
Chazy, K. Y., where interment in the
Catholic cemetery is to be made to-mor
row.
Mr. Loso is survived bv his wife, who
was Miss Emma Lucia, and to whom he
was married in West Chazy 12 years ago,
and bv three children, Raymond loso.
Doroht.v Tiao and fnrinn 1 it Tliora
are also left his father, Joseph ixiso of
Flattsburg, N. Y., and seven brothers.
Stanley Loso of Roxbury, Henry Loso of
Chazy, Silas Loso of riattshiirg. Walter
Loso and Clarence Loso of Chazy, Elmer
Loso of Windsor and Earl Ixiso of Beek
mantown, X. Y. The deceased was born
in Plattsburg, March 21, 18HO. and came
to Barre five years ago. For several
years he has been employed us a lumper
at the plant of the Jones Bros. Co. He
belonged to St. John's court, C. O. F..
and was a member of the lumpers' union.
Mis lather, hw wife and three children
accompanied the body to New York.
NORWICH CADETS GO TO CAMP.
Will Be Located at Fort Ethan Allen
Two Days.
Northfield. June 5. Three troops of
.orwicn university cailels lelt town yes
terday by train for Fort Ethan Ailen.
where they will be encamped for four
teen days. They followed another troop
of cadets who, mounted, left Xorthfield
Saturday for the camp ground, stopping
over night at Waterbury. At the fort
they will give ten days to camp work
and four to rifle practice, it being the
first time that the two were held to
gether. The Bethel detachment of caval
ry under Lieut. Tarker will alo attend
the encampment, and two troops of the
Second I'. S. cavslrv will no into camp
with the cadets, thus giving the latter
advantage of close association with regulars.
The camp will be under command of
Captain David H. Biddle, V. S. A., of
New lork. The cadets will return to
Xorthfield in t ime for commencement.
Paris, June 5. With undiminished vio
lence, the Germans continued their at
tacks last night along the Verdun front,
east of the Meuse. The war office report
this afternoon says the assaults were un
successful. Tho Germans attacked
French position in the region of Vaux
nd Damloup. . .
Between the fort of Vaux and the vil-
l r t i At.- . . .
lajfu u uuimoiip me ucrman onensive
was particularly severe. The French still
are in possession of tort Vaux. In the
vicinity of Douaumont there was heavy
artillery fighting.
Unsuccessful German raids were un
dertaken in the Vosges.
Terrible Butchery in Ravine Before Vaux
In their repeated attacks on Fort
Vaux and the outlying Verdun defenses,
the Germans are hurling forward their
infantry, in masses so compact that the
first lines are obliged to advance to cer
tain death. The assaulting columns de
bouch from the village of Damloup and
are obliged to cross a ravine to attack
the slopes near the fort. , For three
days this spot has been the scene of
carnage which saturates the ground with
blood. French officers declared that the
butchery there surpasses imagination.
RUSSIANS' LEFT
TURNED BY TURKS
Constantinople Official Report States
that All Efforts to Counter Were
Unsuccessful, ; As Well As At
tempts to Cover Retreat
Constantinople, via London, June 5.
The reinforced lurkiah army in the Cau
casus, which lat month began an offen
sive campaign, has driven the Russians'
left wing about 25 miles back, the war
office announces. All the enemy attempts
to cover tlie retreat or regain lost posi
tions collapsed with heavy losses under
the Turkish bayonet attacks. Fifty sol
diers, two machine guns and engineering
material were captured.
SHOT HIS BROTHER
IN A QUARREL
Tragedy Took Place in Rutland County
and the Victim Has a Chance to
Recover Assailant Caught.
T..A1 J , m r I t 1.'
y-, wrr yr'i-i. J 'vuiiaiiu, .junn o.neioro several oi ins
JlrS. ti. VV. K.lttreage 01 friends, who will probably appear against
him when placed on trial, incenzo Nero-
no, known as Frank Waldo, of Florence,
a marble worker, ahot hia brother, James
erono, through the lower abdomen with
a 38-calibre revolver bullet following a
fistic encounter between the men yester
day afternoon at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Bicno in Florence. The
REMEDY HAD
FATAL EFFECT
Northfield Died While Seek
ing Relief from Asthma
LONG A SUFFERER
TTJmVT TUT? ATT MTTMrP would-be murderer then ran to the home
J RUM IttHi AILMN 1 of Harry Houston, where he hid under a
bed, there lieing found an hour later by
Constable James E. Tennien of Fittsford,
who brought the man to the house of
correction in this city
The injured man was treated by Dr.
H. H. Swift of l'ittsford soon after the
shooting, which occurred about 4:30
o'clock and was later removed to the
Proctor hospital, where it is said he has
a chance to recover. The bullet entered
just to the left of the lower abdomen and
Xorthfield, June 5. Mrs. Winnifred penetrated the intestine, coming out the
Kittredire. wife of E. W. Kitlredee. died back. A second shot-tired by V erono at
She Inhaled Chloroform and
Ether After She Had Tab
en Chloroform Tablets
Sunday morning as the result of inhaling
his brother did not take effect.
BOYS ARE HEEDLESS
OF THEIR PLIGHT
Held in Connection with Murder of Wake-
lin Girl at Melrose, Mass. They
Pleaded Not Guilty to a Lar
ceny Charge.
Melrose, Mass., June 5. Harold Shaw
and Harold Mead, the boys detained in
connection with the murder of seven-year-old
Loretta Kakelin. pleaded not
guilty to the charge, of larceny of ice
tools and were held for a hearing to-day.
The boys apiwrently were in a happy
mood. Shaw insists that he is innocent
of the girl's death and Mead, who is
alleged to have confessed, says nothing
further.
CHURCH DEBT WIPED OUT.
at
CANADIANS USE BAYONETS.
And Drive Germans Out of Part of Cap
tured Trenches.
London. June 5. The region of Vaux
and Damloup, northeast of Verdun, has
been the scene of further futile attempts
of the Germans to pierce the French
lines. All the attacks were set at naught
by the French fire, except a night attack
between Damloup and Fort Vaux, where
the Germans obtained a foothold in
French trenches. From these, however,
they were immediately driven out by
counter attack.
The Canadian troops and the Germans
have been battling fiercely on the Ypres
salirnt. The German guns opened up
several days ago, deluging the Canadian
positions and the surrounding territory
with shells. The German infantry ad
vanced along an extended front almost
two miles, capturing trenches. In a se-
Feature of Grace Church Dedication
St. Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, June 5. The new Grace
Methodist Episcopal church was fitting
ly dedicated yesterday, the dedicatory
service Iat night being conducted by
Bishop John W. Hamilton, Bie pastors of
all the churches participating in the exer
cises. Heavy showers kept many away
from the morning service, which was in
charge of Bishop Hamilton, and his ser
mon led up to the raising of the church
debt of 30.000, which was an Interesting
feature of all the services of the dav.
At the afternoon service, Rev. Thomas
Tho men hurl lectin havinir soma tron.
chloroform and ether in an attempt to b, previou9 t0 vegterdav but the exact
gain relict irom astnma, troni wnicn sne cause of their differences is not known
had been a sufferer for a long time. For It was suggested it might have been over
the ailment the woman was accustomed family money matters. James, the in
to take chloroform tablets frequently at jured man, is 30 years old, while his
night. brother is six years younger. Neither had
Early Sunday morning Mrs. Kittredire been drinking to any extent.
felt a serious attack of asthma and she About 3 oeloek the prisoner stopped
aroued her husband, who, as usual, pre-lat the home of Charles Rock m Florenc
pwred the medicine and gave it to ma and inquired for his brother, being in
wife. Then he returned to bed while his I formed that James was at the home of
wife remained propped up in bed. Mr. Joseph Bigno. The two had been in the
Kittredge fell asleep and at 7 o'clock was house but a short time together when
awakened by their little daughter. The it ts claimed by witnesses, trank start
woman was leaning out of the bed with ed the trouble. J he men were told to
her bead resting against a large trunk, leave the house by the owner. They
She was still breathing and Mr. Kit-obeyed but after they reached the open
tredge called la physician, Before the air they began a fist fight, the younger
doctor arrived Mrs. Kittredge was dead, man being the aggressor. Soon frank
When be was awakened Mr. Kittredge I was seen to grab his brother around the
found a bottle containing a combination neck. Holding him with one arm and
of chloroform and ether in the woman's drawing a revolver witk.the other he
baud, Mrs. Kittredge having ued that shot him once through the body and
when she did not get relief from the when vicitim was falling the revolver
other remedy. It is the theory of the was discharged again.
physician that Mrs. Kittredge, not get
ting relief from the medicine which her
husbMud had prepared, secured the com
bination of chloroform and ether and be
gan to inhale it when he was overcome, Burns Club Members and Friends Were
the previous remedy having begun to .t Caledonia Park Saturday
have it js etfei't. at the name time. The!
rumor of suicide was scouted bv the phv- 1 n "urri cl,ln Ml lts annual picnic
:,,; Saturday at Caledonia park. The weath
Mrs. Kittredge was born in Roxbury 37 er cleared up enough to allow the races
years ago, being the daughter of Mr. and antl 'ootban game to go on, but. ram
iurs. vnaiit'8 ii. urigjrs, who now resiue -r -
in Xorthfield Falls. Besides her husband, inning. The outing was much enjoyed
she leaves a daughter. Juanita. aged two despite the inclement weather. Dancing
vears; and two brothers, Frank Briggs of nu games were kepi up aimosv couiui-
iowell, Mass., and Bert Briggs of St. Al- uouaiy in ine pavilion uurmg me aiter
bans. The last named is at present in
Denver attending a convention of railway
men; and the arrangements for the fu
neral will not be completed until word is
received from him,
WATER RIGHTS
TRANSFERRED
Tenney Co. Acquires the
Phelps Mill on Upper
Washington Street
TENTH PURCHASE
IN-FOUR YEARS
Plans for Development Are
Not Revealed at
. Present
To its several power holdin'
tral Vermont, the C. H.
which controls the Barre
sJ'Ven.
p"ntpoIier
PICNIC DESPITE RAIN.
RUSH ESTEE RETURNING.
fYoung Broker Came- to 'His Senses
" Minneapolis.
James H. Estee left Montpelier Satur
day evening for Chicago to meet his son
Rush K. hstee of New tork City, th
young broker who disappeared from the
Tyrie of Hazardville, Conn., pastor of I pleasure yacht Gambler in Duluth har
Grace church for five years, preached a ! bor last Wednesday evening. Young Es
strong sermon on power. The church tee was located in Minneapolis Saturda
was crowded at the evening service, the and sent a telegram t his father asking
devotional exercises being couducted by, him to meet him in Chicago. The tele
four of tbe ht. Johnsbury pastors. Bish-;gram gave no explanation of his peculiar
op Hamilton preached the sermon, and
after the presentation of the building by
the trustees, the bishop dedicated the
church. ,
Music for the various services was
furnished by the male quartet and a
mixed quartet from the church, and
Frank L. Crain of Laconia, N". H., pre
sided at the organ.
vanishing, but dispatches from Duluth
state that Estee said that he was at
tacked Wednesday night by highwaymen
ami beat over the head, causing him to
lose his mind temporarily. He found him
self Friday in Minneapolis. It is prob
able that Mr. Estee and bis son will re
turn to Montpelier to-morrow or Wed
nesdav
"COME HERE TO TRADE," THE SLOGAN AND
INVITATION OF THE BARRE MERCHANTS
All Roads Will Lead to Barre During the Big Fare-Refunding; Sale Week of June 17 to 24, Which
Will Be Conducted Under the Auspices of The Times and the Merchants of This
City Coming Event Is Already Attracting Favorable Attention.
POSTPONED ONE WEEK.
In order that the merchants par
ticipating in The Times' co-operative
fare-refunding sale and trade
week, which was announced last
week, may have more time to ar
range their stocks and in other
ways prepare to take care of all
whit come to Barre to trade during
the big Saturday to Saturday
trading event, the dates have been
postponed one week, and will run
from .'une 1" to 24, instead of
from June 1ft to 17.
A Statement.
F. C. I51ak of MM nty. Is, tie
-mfk-ni gut of M; Klixabetb Mur
ray ff Mf-hsnt etrert.
Principal H. H. .lackeon of Sniubling
high whool slated to-day that the
(ill ling hop" advertised to l h-ld at
Hnwland hall Wednesday evening. June
has no formation with Spsuliling
school authorities or alumni hut is a nub
ile duce. The Spaulding alumni hail
for Spaulding high is-bool alumni and
tbe graduating rlsss will be givr-n this
year in the new assembly ball at the h'-
school building.
Fanetat cf Ha roll Norris.
The fnnrl of Harold Vrri. who dini
Ut n'gi.t at his borne in Wi!limton.
i!l b bld from the bue o-rtK?ro
(Tuesday i aiternoca at 2 o'cl-k.
Come to Barre to trade," is now the
slogan to be used by every one of our
merchants. Shtmt it so loud that it can
be beard for miles in every direction, and
let the people of the middle section of
Uhe state know what this big co-operative
trading event will mean to them.
That this big co operative trade week
will be a great success from every point
of view is attested by the character of
the firms that have already united in the
movement and have agreed to refund the
fares on the co-operative plan to all out-of-town
customers during the big Satur
day to Saturday sale.
These merchants are planning to make
this actually the greatt trading oppor
tunity ever known in Harre or anywhere
in the state of Vermont. j
Fare-Refunding Plan. I
Special attention is railed to the fare-
refunding future of this bijr co-operative
sal. l'ndT the arrarffmcfits, farM
are to be refund-d to all out-of-ton
ctoniT who do tb'ir shopping in Barr
during this fVrsons rmir,p to
WOMEN'S MISSION OPENED
the schedule should keep in mind this
feslure and be sure to get their tares re
funded before leaving for home.
-Not only will the people coming direct
from the outside towns get their fares
refunded, but a farmer residing near any
of the places listed in the schedule will
also get his fare or an amount equivalent
to the price' of railroad ticket refunded
to him, whether he comes by auto, team,
or rail. A rate has also been made for
the inland towns in thf radius of the
sale, so as not to show any partiality in
this respect.
This, of course, is in addition to the
manv special harcains to be offered by
the merchants during this big co-opera
tive sale.
Another Pleasing Feature.
Another pleasing feat lie of this part
of the arrangement is the fact that a
person is not compelled to make his pur
chases all at one store, hut be can, on
the contrary, trade at as many stores as
he may like, the only provision being
that the aggregate amount of his pur
chases equal the spi-cifled sum designated
in the published schedule. Say, for in
stance. person coining from a town
where the amount to be purchased is f 1-V
can. if desired, trade at 15 different
stores, sending one dollar at each p!ac
and still be entitled to bis fare back. jut
the same as though he spent the whole
f IS at one store. The purchases, how
ever, must all be made at the stores
hih are participating in the , and
whoe name are l.sted on the trk of the
rfnni1in,i cllna furnished t A PftrH nitlftm-
. . ' t t i T" t ,, . . . . i . . . - i ............ 1 . .. . .n I nrl Jit l rtnm.
er. nil irtrui t'ons as io now these re-iiaiive oi mr i imr in u ii on a 11 the ot m i r j w ' -
fim;n !,r. .ri to ! used 11 ill h mi tv m-rr hr f in F-snre a n4 c rr t hem r n on. ' it i nc r.ret iii prea, n ir-.r n..rnng , ter v
!i,t h fnt Mrf of the soecial tiortumtv to unite with tho iki t,vr m"" t? ek at 5 and o,l.V n I
t.fi,. r Th. Timn. mntaininv the an- iairradr atnif?H tbeir intention ft '- !arm H en:r.g at 7.3" ' ! k. !seP i Mi l t" Me been of the aeto
notinoments n,t the spwial bargain of itinpat re m th 1. The more mt- ' 71 iniei-rr. ae to retain in t'e 'art-a mMr ! !. ratfl
the merchant.. hirh ill he iued in a rhant "ho unite in the wim'nt. th ' a fortnt. 'n M is Trtn. V .1.. hut she did not return
f, rf.vs Watch fr tt and r-ot mir- Ihif-er the fii.w of ail. ml th. rrrtr Via i f.T a men s m nrt we. k. b M. m-t ..me. Sj.e left born thre. weka
features of the big sale. This edition
will also direct you where to trade to get
real, genuine bargains.
Where to Get Bargains.
Following are the merchants who have
already united with each other in an cf
fort to bring people to Barre to do their
shopping during The Times big co-opera
tive sale.' Taste the list in your hat for
future reference, so that you may know
where to find genuine bargains:
A. P. Abbott. Co., Dept. Store.
The Homer Fitta Co., Dept. Store.
Union Dry Goods Co.
Union Clothing Co.
F. H. Rogers & Co, Clothing.
Rogers' Walk-Over Boot Shop.
Moore & Owens, Clothing and Shoes.
Shea's Shoe Store.
A. W. Badger & Co., Furniture.
People'! Shoe Store.
Lamorey Clothing Co.
The N. D. Pnelpt Co, Hardware.
Mrs. W. F. Shepard, Millinery.
Mrs. Flora Foster, Millinery.
The Vaughan Store, Dry Goods.
B. W. Hooker tt Co, Furniture.
Tilden Shoe Co.
Frank McWhorter Co, Clotfctog.
C. W. Averill & Co, Hardware.
The results of the games were as fob
lows:
Children s race How ard Douglas, Rob-
ina McDonald, Arthur Sangster.
Girls race Ona McDonald, Mary Mc
Donald, Lizzie Munro.
Boys' race Albert Christie, Alex Lilly,
Charles Leel.
Ladies race Mrs. Munroe, Mrs. J.
McKernan. Miss Josie Will.
In the football game the married men
(captained by William Dean) defeated
the single men (captained by James Cob
ban) by five goals to two. Christie and
Cobban featured for the losers, while
Angus McDonald's goal for the married
men goes down in history.
When rain broke up the baseball game,
the score stood 4 to 1 for the single men.
Ix"el and Cobban did the battery work
for the winners and Booth and Cormack
for the losers. Umpire James Mitchell's
work was the feature of the ball game
his decisions, nearly causing a riot at
times.
Before the Mtherinji dispersed, a vote
of thanks was given to the committee
ehairmaned by President Hugh Christie
for their work to make the outing a sue
cess.
fraction A, Power Co., . jnsolidated
..ighting Co., and the ?' ,N jlier &. Barre
Light & Power Co., h .dcd the Phelps
nun property at the eat end of Wash
ington street, the deal having been con
summated Saturday preparatory to the
registration of the transfer deeds to-day.
The transaction includes the mill build
ing used by Arthur rhelpa for custom
sawing and the power privileges that are
an adjunct to the plant on Jail branch.
All told, the Tenney company has ab
sorbed 10 wuterpowers in this section of
Vermont sine the first purchase was
made Nov. 12, 1912.
When interviewed to-day, Manager H.
D. Larrabee said that the company pur
chased the property because of its prox
imity to the Barre power market. No
plans for the immediate development of
the plant have been completed, he went
on, and for the time being Mr. Phelpa
will be permitted to use the mill and the
power. Later, it was intimhted, the Ten
ney company will take over the entire
plant and possibly make improvements.
Just now there are a large number of
logs on hand at the mill and there is a
busy summer in prospect for Mr. Phelps
and his helpers. The property has been
in the possession of the Phelps family
for many years' and tin immense amount
of lumber has been its output. It is said
that there is an opportunity for further
development of the mill privileges at the
point where the dam is located.
Manager Larrabee statd that the
company preferred not to name the price
paitt tor the property. He said that en
gineers will be asked to make a careful
survey of the stand in order to obtain de
tailed data as to the possibilities of de
velopment, storage capacity of the mill
pond and other information.
WOOD BUSINESS TRANSFERRED.
COMMENCEMENT WEEK OPENS.
First Event Is Prize Speaking Contest
Tuesday Evening.
The following is the program for the
pruc-speaking contest in connection with
the Spaulding high school commence
ment, the contest to be held at the opera
house Tuesday evening, June ti:
The Faraons Conversion Murray
Charles Ralph OllivfT
The Little Gentleman" Tarkinjrton
Griff Irn. Bixnjr
'A Call to Individual Responsibility". ..Wade
Alexander Allen Mortimer
Muak "Spring- Sonir" Mendelasohn
Girls- Glee Club
The Refompenne" Donne 11
Marion Winifred Anker
The Man in the Shadow" Child
Eldon Wealey Kali
'Captain January's Star" Richard
Marguerite Currier
By Courier" Torter
Richard Cruickhank
Mitfie "Croon, Croon" .......Rich
Girls' Glee Cluh
The Heart of the Old Hirkory". . . . Dromgoole
Geormna Macaulay
Russia and the Jews" Stafford
Dean Chandler Davis
The Bear Story" Riley
Madeline Nicholson Macdonald
Muaic "Onward. Bonny Boat" Kuerkan
The judges are Miss Agnes M. Safford,
Principal Edward S. Abbott, and Frederic
1 anls.
Calder & Richardson Buy It of Arthur S.
Martin Estate.
Wood yards, wood and equipment
owned by the estate of Arthur S. Martin
have been transferred to the Depot
square firm of Calder & Richardson, ac
cording to a bill of sale registered at the
office of the city-clerk to-day. The prop
erty was sold bv the administrator of the
estate, H. G. Woodruff, and is reported
o have brought aroitnd fn.OOO. Calder &
Kichardson will utilize the North Barre
nd Burnham's .meudow: shed properties
in connection with, their original exten
sive holdings. At North Barre the sheds
re located on land owned by A. D. Morse,
while the Burnham's meadow buildings
re pitched on land owned by the Mont
pelier & Wells River railroad. Calder &
Richardson will retain both locations,
but the Tremont sweet shed, which oc
cupies leased land, will be moved at
once.
Follows the inventory of the property
tuken over by the purchasers: " o wood
sheds in Burnham'a meadow, two wood
sheds at Xorth Barre, one woodshed at
Tremont street: two horses, three wag
ons, four sleds, three harnesses. 719 cords
of block wood, 68 cord of chair wood,
314 cords of hard and soft slab wood, 24
carloads of hard and soft slab wood and
seven loads of limb wood.
DEATH OF MRS. PETER TH0M
At St. Monica's Church When Large Au
dience Heard Rsv. F. J. Moore.
A mission for the women of St. Mon
ica' church Sgan last evening with a
art-, eoiiuret-st ion of iwri'hioners who
. I. ... A t v tar ,h ,rumntr homilv of a '
series of sermons to be clelneted through
out the preent wek. lv. Father F. J.
Moore of Worcester. AU., - the
pre, her t the evening ervif. Father
Mire a!o pre, bed at both mnses in
e morning and i-ted the parish
J prict. Rev. I. M. McKenna, in the s.rv-
ne iMrmg tne u i rpenen i n i
Occurred Last Evening Following a Shock
Earlier in the Day.
Mrs. Addie Thorn, wife of refer Thorn,
passed away at her home, 171 North
Seminary street, Sunday evening at f:30
o'clock, the end following a shock which
she sustained in the forenoon at 11:45
o clock. Mrs. I horn Had been in declin
ing health for some time. She is sur
vived bv her husband, a son, Harry fage
of Suflield. Conn., and two sisters, vrs.
Fannie liold of Barre nnd Mrs. Merrill
Kastnvan, also of this city. Two nieces.
Mrs. John Mack of Westboro, Mass., and
Mrs. John Stevens of Sharon, are also
left.
Mrs. Thorn was horn Addie Foster in
East Oranne, March 17, 18,)!). She had
resided in Barre more than 40 years, com
ing here as young woman, tier mar-
iage to Mr. Thorn took place in 180S.
She was a member of the First Presbrte-
rian church and belonged to the ladies'
aid society of that church. A large circle
of acquaintances held her in high esteem
and the news of her untimely passing has
brought sorrow to many.
Funeral services will be held at the
ltoue Tuesdiy afternoon at 2 o'clock. It
is requested that flowers he omitted. Her
son. Hrry I'sge, nd his wife are ex
pected to arrive in the city late this afternoon.
DAUGHTER LOCATED.
But She Did Not Return to Funeral ef
Her Father, George Coiem.
The funeral of t.erge Cogens, a Berlin
farmer ho committed suir idc in bia
I Rev. Father O'Brien. !o of Worcester.
jnill arrive in Barre to motr.tw to i.tt-rn bv shooting lt Friday afternoon.
I ,! colleague in the m:s;on. Both prictjwa be'd from hi late home this after-
eloouent speaker nd in the case of noon. Rev. .1. F.. Taj lor of the renpte's
The above lit is in no iv rmrlefe i Father Moore it is said tht St. Monica's ! church, opiating. The hearer were
. ' ' '!. . . , . ! 1 P ..1 ..1. J
a a great numorr ot the mcrrh?,ts have fnrtnnate in securing r fritmin v m " imam. nmo n
not ret heenwen. However a r,r,.-,.., I U w i-.e'v know n in ma n v eastern ;io,. i i -eorc. R:-! r lin. all of Berlin. In
rmeti
Mr Prn" daughter. boe disappear
Farre from any of the towns L.Med in'ulf tboroujMj on this and rcarr otherMhe rjportun fy t.f the tv:j ir r-viblic. nr r Sunday even r.
