FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
,
if--
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAINS AND NF.W8
STANDS FIVE CENT
GERMAN LOSS IS
LAHGEn THAN WAS
FIRST REPORTED
If English Report Is Correct
Losses On Each Side Are
About the Same
BATTLESHIP WARSPITE
' NOT SUNK AS CLAIMED
English Admit Losses 114,100
Tons, Placing German Loss
at 113,435
London, .Tunc H.-Tlio hope of many
Knglish families, members of which
vere on the ships lost in the great
kagernk sea fight, that some of the
men rivoitld be rescued, is being shnvlv
e rushed by tho tales of nwfulness
brought in by vessels which have
reached Copenhagen since the battle.
.Hut with tho crushing; of this hope,
pride in the uavy is growing hourly,
with the continued insistence of tie
j"ii)!tish admiralty that the Germans
lost far more heavily than they admit.
"There seems to be tie strongest
ground for supposing that included in
tiio German battle losses are two bat
tleships, two dreadnoughts, of the
H ost powerful type, two of the latest
1'uJit cruisers, the Wiesbaden nud the
l.bling, a light cruiser or the Rostock
type, the light cruiser Frauenlob, ten
destroyers and a submarine," the state
ment said.
(The Hermans admit only the. loss of
the battleship Pominern, '.he- cruisers
M icahadeu, Frauenlob and F.bling and
six destroyers.)
L'ispatches received iu London from
i cq tuhngon snv manv of the bodies
o" the Iiritish and Gorman sailors lot
in si:e sea fight may have been wash
i 'I nit aloiwr the Jutland shore. Sever
ill of the sailors of the Wiesbaden were
rescued - bv Scandinavian steamers
vhich also picked up torpedo boat sur
iivt.rs, loth Tlriiiph and German. Th-:
survivors however, were verv fcv.
All of the sailors of the vessels that
haA j in fed through the buttle waters
ie tliat in nearly every instance
tuo l.ifs of life with the destruction
of the ships must have been nearly to-1
till, ships arriving in C'opeuhagen re
port. Hundreds of these men jumied.
to riifis and were slowly driven in.pi.e
by the torture of thirst. Some J.'an't
x.iit water '.nil going s'.irk crnv,
fought with weakened companions,
lumped into tiir sea and wer. driwn
ed Claim More Losses
The dispatches also state the many
large Cirman cruiseis which ii'ieroforc
Kave been patrolling the Courland
const (Russia) have been withdrawn.
The admitted German loss in ton
nage now is r2,.r)l"i tons. The British
claim an additional HO.SI'JO tons, which
would l.rinj. the German tot.H to 1 !,
4::,". The British admit the loss of
1 i l.100 tons. Tin' SO ,000 tons which
the Germans do not admit is made up,
:iv the British of the battleship West
Tullcn, the battle cruiser Perfflingcr,
the buttle cruiser LuUow, a light
cruiser, three additional destroyers
and one submarine.
Vice-admiral Sir David Bc.itty is to
day looked ujKin as one of Great Bit
Ciin's illustrimis naval heroes. With
the men of the fleet he is ni
jjnl
They all agree that when the derman
battle losses became fully wnown, it
will be shown that Ihe action was a
ulorious victoiy for the British navy.
The admiralty re)K)rt that the War
suite was not sunk as claimed by the
(Continued on Page Eight.)
'"tier's iist one chnme fcr a u
'"rl -amiability. Woman excels at
er' thing but ironing th' neck band
o' a birt.
, ,
&; inr kudtim
Hill. I1IM1UI11 a. I
v
'
J 'ome Glimpses of Men and
I Things at The Convention
le hotel page boys have been equip-j person of T. R., Jr., arrived and an-i
with megaphones to make them . uounced today that " whatever the con
1 tj, unintelligible. vention does, the sentiment of the coun-
-e august Mr. Ausgustus P. Card- try is for Father."
iin is here today prepared to prepare' Former .heavyweight champion,
the Grand Old l'arty for preparedness. James J. Corbett, is Lere looking them
Ex-Governor Eugene M. Foss, of over. He expects to be at the ringside
Massachusetts, possible presidentiol when the gong sounds Wednesday,
timber for the prohibitionists arrived! "The sparring of these politicians is
with his avoirdupois and began talking great," says Corbett. "But it looks
through his mustache and over hisli,e a real fight when they get set."
stomach iu a very dry manner. j Judge Henry Neil, of Chicago, orig-
Joe Keatin, than whom there is uo inal Mother's pension ndvocate, said
whomer in stand pat Hoosier politics, is today he will try to have the republican
here with all his influence and a dou- platform endorse n other's pension leg
ble chin. , I isatioa in the various states. '
T. K.'s former secretary, William Former Secretary of Interior Carl 1.
(Billy) I.oeb, smokes such lonsr cigars
that he can stand in his hotel and ' the Burton presidential bcom. Thomp
smoke in the street. One puff was ' sou was a friend of Burton years ago
enough to prove that he ought to do it, when the former was getting a political
too. I start in Ohio.
The genial and colossal New York I ' Advocates of nation-wide prohibition
wnrd leader who supported Roosevelt took some satisfaction today in point
with both lungs four years ago, arrived ing out that it is possible to conduct
wearing a red, white and yellow table- pre-convention negotiations without the
cloth necktie with n fowling fringe.
Uiauncey M. Del'ew. tho original uft-
er dinner mint of pointed paragraphs,
is here in a new spring suit nud all his
glory. DePmv in "82 and undoubtedly
has been an invited guest at more diu-
ncr parties than any other American.!
yet he never went to a single oue of
rnem wirnout taking bis mutton chops his most winning manner and a breaK
along. I fast invitation on two delegates under
Ex-Representative "Farmer" Cocks, the misapprehension that they were old
of Now York, is here to see about the guardsmen, only to discover that they
whole business. He's a neighbor of T. ' were red hot Roosevcltinn progressives,
li.'s down at Oyster Bay, and, being a 'the senator was enough of a -spurt to
qimker, he and Teddy wrangle inform- buy their coffee and rolls anyway,
ally about preparedness over the back j At even- turn there are signs that the
fence. , - ".
A vest pocket edition of T. R., in the (Continued on Pago Nina.)
Crown Prince's Army Making
Desperate Attempts to
Overwhelm French 7
Paris, June 5. The armies of tho
German crown prince buttling for Ver
dun continued violent assaults in the
region of I)end Man's hill, Hill .104,
Fort Dounumont and Fort Vaux, all
Sunday and were repulsed official re
ports to the French war office today
i.ny. It is believed here that the Ger
mans are making their ltrtguty efforts
at Verdun to give strength in the iu
crease in spirit of the German people,
of the Gciinnn peopie, aroused by the
Noith sea naval battle.
A German infantry attack late Sun
day, according to the report, wrested
some of the French line trenches from
the holders in the -region between Dmn
loup and Fort Vaux. The invaders were
iickly driven out by a fierce counter
attack.
Despite the recent German surceses
around Verdun, the' of rices nud rimi
remain sublimely confident the city will
rot betaken. It is held that ihe Ger
mans are without sufficient reserves to
start storming action nloi.g the Verdun
battle front simultaneously. The French
also look to actions by the allies at
points along tho line remote from Ver
dun to help solve the Verdun problem.
Germans Held in Check.
Paris, June !i The Oermnns launched
several hot infantry attacks against
I Fort Vaux last night, employing liquid
tire nut uespite tins tne attacks weer
repulsed, says the French official com
munique today. Elsewhere along the
line-east of the Meuse the fighting was
heavy but the Germans were unable to
gain a yard, the statement says.
At Damlonp and Fort Vaux, the
charges of the German infantry elided
in hand to hand struggles along the
trench Jines. The Germans did nut ob
tain a foothold nt any place. The heav
iest part of the attack was directed
agniii!-t Vaux.
Situation unchanged.
Berlin, via wireless to Sayville, I,. I
June 5. All of the French counter nt-
ticks on the positions gained by the
Germans along the Fort Vaux-Caillette
wood Damioup line have been repulsed
with heavy losses to the French, ac
cording to the Berlin official statement
today. "The enemy, in a series of
massed inf:iiitry attacks," reads the re
port, "attempted to retake positions
gained by us in the, past few days. All
of the attacks were repulsed. The
French made their greatest efforts on
Fuime ridge, southwest of Vanx village
and in the di.itricto the southeast.
"West of the Meuse, onr artillery
.'helled French trenches nnd bntte'ies
with good effect. The attempt of the
Frerch infant rj t atorm our trenches
ci the road west of Hiucourt was halt
ed. A feeble Fench attack iu the
Chnmpagne region nenr l'runag. under
taken after gas preparation, failed.
"The British, last night again at
tacked the posit inns conquered by us
southeast of Ypres. The attacks were
driven off by fierce artillery fire.
"German reconnoitering detachments
entered the enemy pi'sitions along the
Yser mTrth of Arras nud east of Albert,
taking nearly 100 wounded prisoners. A
mine thrower was nls taken.
"On the east front a d in the Bal
kans, the situation is unchanged."
Thompson is here from St. Paul, to help
aid of large quantities of booze. Sun-
day was a dry day in Chicago and it was
followed by another today, there being
a judicial election on here A few of
the delegates, however, found wet
spots.
After one of Senator Weeks' enter-
prising runiiers-up hnd spent 24 hours,
I TOM'S BALL SCORES I
American.
R. H. F.
Now York 3 C 2
Chicago 2 G 1
Cullop and Nunainnkttr; Bens, lan
forth, Russell nud Schalk.
rhiTadelphrn-St.
wet grounds.
Kilils, postponed,
R.
If. E.
7 0
0 S
ITale,
Boston .." 5
Cleveland 0
Ruth and Cady; Coombs,
Mitchell and O'Neill.
R. H. K.
Washington 2 (i 1
Detroit 3 1 0
Johnson nud Ainsniitb; Covnleski and
Staunge.
National.
H.
9
E.
Cincinnati
2!
New York
7
foney and Wingo; lesieau and Ran-
deu
R.
Pittsburg 2
Brooklyn 3
Miller, Cooper nnd Wilson;
Dell nud Movers.
R.
Chicago 1
Boston
u
Packard mid Archer; Nchw, Hughes
and Gowdv.
R. If.. E.
iM. I.OUIS O '
phiiadchihm o io
, ,r i i i. i.... ij i.
McQuillan and Killifer.
Market Fluctuates But
T rn
No Materia! ihanges
a
The Ve,v York1
The Neiv lork.
New York, June 5,
Evening Sun's finaiicinl review today
says:
With a better appreciation of the
facts that was obtainable on Saturday
that Great Britain, however sln rimy
I...... unft'.irn.l minimi her full maritime
prestige, the grent naval buttle iu l no ; reruns- nanuony popm-u "in mi
North sea which demoralized the mar-r the Washington state delegation of
set on Friday, ceased as an influencing ;Moosers nrrived
factor in Wall street today. I National Committeeman Austin I
A !..;. m.lorn in shines of cor- Griffiths, of Seattle, declared the pro-
ponitions of virtual mushroom gro'.vC:
. 1 .L.
both on the exchange and on the curb
was undoubtedly the outstanding fen
tury of tlie Bcssion. To t..e acncuipauy
1 B "I""" " , i i
i,f a merirnr or or IWO or
three mergers, V, n ys-. verm... op.
1U
.... i. ....A mt. I a. i ii tin. iiner live
lju..... ...h ,- -- --
. . " i ..
noints in Belling price ni'iore sum p pu-
Z Auction dJvU
Clini.Hler Motor Stui ebaker Motors, attaes, n- -
Maxw UMotorH and others -participat: ! Uved-in-thi-Wool moose came troop-1 spcctaculr pre-convention tight for
cd in tl e cmarkable movements. ing into town, among other, being Vic- .the nomination broke with Itoosev, It
VubrtSut i T nprovemcnt reflected in to? Murdock. national committee rH'.r- was counted out in the Bteam roll
r:1:";1.".1 "VJ- mnn: f;ilfurd I-inchot, William Flinn. er's putting over of Tuft na the nom-
THF WFATHFR
Oregon: To
night and Tues
day fHir and
w a r m e r; light
'frost tonight
northeast por
tion; northwest
erly wiuds.
(THE CHAvtP".
LI
LEIGH TALK Of
.Radicals Determined to Force
Roosevelt's Nomination
as Starter
MRS. R0OSEYET TO BE
IN BOX WITH THE CLAN
Washington Bunch Drops
Monkey Wrench In Har
mony Machine Cogs
By H. L. Rennick.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Chicago, June 5. The progressive na
tional committee went into session to
day rendy to make peace with the G.
O. P., but not to "pay too high a price
for harmony."
Declaring that as yet no conferences
had been arranged, nor any overtures
made for agreement o'f the two parties
on a candidate, George W. Perkins, Bull
Moose chieftain, issued a statement out
lining the terms the progressives will
consider.
Some political leaders interpreted
Perkins statement as a flat refusal to
accept Hughes.
"I am for harmony between the two
conventions," Perkins said. "I shall
use every ounce of ability I have any
every moment of my time to briiur it
about, but not for one moment will I
iose sight of the fact that you'ean pay
too high a price for almost anything,
and certainly can pay too high a prico
for harmony.
"Wc could have had harmony with
England in 1770 if we had paid the
price. We could hnye had harmony in)
lstiU, but we would nave and no country
as a result. Now I, for one, am deeply
imbued with the belief that we are fac
ing just as momentous a struggle, with
just as important questions to decide as
in 17 70 and lHliO. These questions or
temporizo with them, they will simply
come back to plaguo us iu the immed
iate future and come back with greater
force and violence.
No Ub Postponing Day.
"This being my belief I will not con
sent to any arrangement that is simply
postponing the dny of settlement."
Perkins admitted that the progres
sive nntionnl committee might make
some arrangements leading to a confer-
Anna Ufilh rnniihlintlll l.Mlilflra 11a dn-
3:AlA...l lir,,.rAai. 4l,nf tl,A nninniittnn
woul(l discuss chiefly routine business
todav.
"I will state positively," said
MAKES A
P1E0F1I1IY
' Perkins, "that the progressive party
' . i has not nskod Justice Hughes any ques
hranh, jjons or tri,.d to force a definite an
, Inouncement from him."
Along candidates' row it was said
some progressive leaders, including Har
old I.ikes, of Illinois, should determine
"to swnko out" Hughes. The more
radical radicals today were still de
termined to force Roosevelt's nomiua
, . ... , .,, , ,,
o:" ..""' T v;"..r.
.convention, leiiiins, uowevrr, se'iiiiru
confident the itrugglo in the couvrMi.in
would end nmicubly.
"There are 1,200 delegntes coming
to our convention." said Perkins.
-liiev me pitting i":" u
,' oiuteiy free and
led. They have their view
"They are paying their own expenses
views and they
untrammi'i-
"t then, on the floor of the I nerinau-Auier run alliance issue ne nas
, t .. . .tllf. business to be silent. ' itonheiir s
convention. But
fight. It is: simply a muss of opinions,
out of which harmony will probably be
worked."
Big Horns Arriving.
Indications of insurgency against
I grossives ought to remain sepnre and
,1... lCnUllnilnn!iil.u HlS,l
. intact and the Yi tisli'.ngtonians
i anion.
I Thomas Morphine, of Seattle, wns
eiccreil ueii'liiiiiu vuuiiuinii. .in-nu
:.. i. ..,.. .,.(lr.,l ,
iith rnu-
; "- ""7. "V:.
line nmirovt. ... urirvnum vn nuriurn,
I ... . ..... u l. .l..,.l.l-
'--.I 1.,,1 n aani 1in 1nill. (1
n.iu 4winn:i.-.i m.t w mv ....
triple dc.egations .ent by many
lOscar Strauss. William Allen' White
Oscar Strauss, William Allen' White
Henry J. Allen and Herbert Know
Smith.
Though Roosevelt himself does not
..i... i ... .., i,,.ro i,i. if.. or.,!
other members of the elan Roosevelt
will occupy boxes nt the progressive ses
sion. some of the lending railroads like l'l
ion Pacific, Reading, I.ehigh Valley and
Xi.rf.dk and Western at the outset and
United States Stcl was better, but then
lapsed into dullness.
Prices moved with increasing irregu
larity in the Inter trading and the list
as a whole, hilt showing no prices,
moved with increasing irregularity in
th" later trading and the list n.i a whole
showed no pronounced weakness and de
veloped a suini'what reactionary fun
di i.ey.
Predictions and Guesses
About Convention Doings
By Perry Arnold.
(Tinted Press staff correspondent.)
Chicago, June 5 The old guard made
it first definite proffer to the pro
gressives today. Secure in its own be
lief that it can control the votes of a
majority of the delegates, the dominent
forces of republicanism want Hughes.
But they only want Hughes if they can
be convinced he can be a winner next
November. Therefore, their preliminary
foeler to the progressives was to ascer
tain whether an agreement could not be
possible with Hv.ghes aa a candidate,
running on any sort of a platform which
tho progressives might require.
The. old guard isn't belittling the
power which it feels the progressives
can. swing and its plan went further
than a mere suggestion that agreement
come about on Hughes! It went so far
as to say they were the ones who put
Hughes over, The scheme, fostered by
the old guard was to havo the progres
sives meet Wednesday aaul not later
than Thursday night, to nominate
Hughes. Then by Friday or Saturday,
the republican convention would
choose tho same standard benrer. Tho
progressives could very well "point
with pride" to the fact that, by their
action in naming Hughes, they had
forced the O. O. P. Tiito selecting tho
same lender. ,
Try to Smoke Hughes Out.
The progressive leaders, who have
been waiting some sort of an olive
branch suggestion, made it known today
they were first for Roosevelt and only
for Hughes if some sort of a "satisfac
tory" Btutement of principles could bo
extracted from the justice. Failing that
they flaunted the big stick of a third
ticket.
(1
Cummins Crowd Hopeful-
Trying To Smoke Hughes
Out-Teddy Not to Come
Chicago, June (i. Members of the
Iowa delegation here to push tho can
didacy of Senator Albert B. Cummins
tor toe presidency permanently organ
ized Sunday night.
The following officers were chosen:
Resolutions, Howard Cl.uk, Des
Moines; permanent organization, Gard
rer Cowies, Des Moines; credential,
H. K. Tomlinson, New Market. Hena
tcr V. S. Kenyon was uan.ed chair
man. The stecrirg committee is com
losrd of Reed l.nne, Davenport, Geo.
Cull, Sioux City, and Charles' Rawson,
el's Mo kcs.
Rawson, who is managing tho Cum
ni us campaign from tlie Oaks room
in the Congress hotel, toduy claimed
Si; instructed delegntra and pledged
lioiu "4 other delegate after tho first
ballot.
These delegates will probably be
from North Dakota anil VVifton.sin,
who H'0 iiim meted for liFolletto on
the first ballot
Poking Up the Sphynz
'iyst.-r B.iy, L, I., June !i. A 1'oose
velt drive on Hughes was soon today in
a statement ')V liiicien Honhenr, pro
gressive leader of Long Island, call
ing upon the justice for a s'atemen
and raising a question regarding Uer
man-American support.
Mr. Hughes can keep nilent on
I "'' things, but when faced with the
statement, issued with the knowledge
of Colonel lioosevclt, added.
"Otherwise he is the candidate of
the Herman-Alliance alliance,"
Colonel Will Not Be There
Chicago, June 5. John McGrath,
Colonel Roosevelt' secretary, declared
positively today that Colonel Roose
velt will not come to Chicago during
the convention,
Bob Third Attempt
Chicago, June fi. Senator I.al'ollette
'will for the thirl timi be a c.indidnte
for the republican nomination at Wod-
1 ucsdnv ' convention. He will bo lilac
j , . ...
Cll III IlOmillUl.lOn US 1SV..IIMII. l . II "
iii.:,,i.i i i.,,i:
on e .on by W M. Oil of M.
luce. f
"Nothing to Say"
Washington, .lime 5. The steadily
uicreasinif call from unengo lor n
istatemeiit irom .iiisuco ungues regur.i
in ir his willingness to accept the re
publican nomination and regurding his
Kisition on various issues, fins not .If
fecteil the justice in the least, nppar
ently,
"No statement is contemplated,"
his secretary miid.
Uncle Joe's Opinion
Chicago, June 5. His usual cigar
tilted at its usual skyward angle,
Uncle Joe Cannon came into town to
day, skirmished about for convention
ticket for hi friends, nnd then gave
I (Continued Pag Thru.)
There appeared very little doubt to
day that Hughea can bo nominated if
the big three" Penrose, Barnes and
Crane Bay so. But tho big three do not
want to say so unless they can be as
sured of a united party behind Hughes.
Thoy do not think Roosevelt can pos
sibly draw all the votes of a re-united
party. They do not think any of the
"favorite sons" is well enough known
nationally, or is of sufficient potency
to defeat Wilson, without progressive!
support. In other words, tho old guard
is in tho position of having control, but
not knowing what to do with its con
trol. One counter suggestion advanced by
the uncompromising progressive group
was for the republicans to go ahead and
nominate Hughes and the progressives
to choose Roosevelt. Then, if the accept
ance statement by Hughes sufficiently
supports the Roosevcltian brand of pre
paredness and Americanism, it is plan
ned that Colonel Roosevelt will with
draw acceptance of the progressive
nomination and throw support to the
justice. It was pointed out today that
the colonel has all along maintained
that he is fighting for a certain set of
principles, for ir his St. I.ouis Bpecch,
for instance, he Bnid he accepted sup
port solely in the knowledge that this
support was the approval of the priuci-.
pics for which he stands and not neccs
sarily of approval of him personally.
Hops He May Withdraw.
Practically all leaders republican
and progressive, have given up hope of
penetrating Justice HuglieB' ailunve be
fore tho balloting comes in the (1. O. P.
meeting. The allies ' hope of defeating
(Continued on Page Eight.)
IN WEST
SALE MYE S T E R 0 AY
Touring Car Driven by Robert
McCrow Overturns with
Auto Party
Ten autoists were more or less seri
ously injured when their auto turned
turtle in the road near the west end
of the steel bridge yesterday evening
about 0:25 but the most seriously in
jured, Mr. nnd Mrs. Robert McCrow, of
Golden dale, Washington, are reported
about out of danger today with good
prospects of recovery. One version of
tho accident is that- the party was
traveling about 1" or 15 miles an hour
in a big eight cylinder oeven passenger
Colo when the rear wheels skidded in
tfo a ditch ahingsidn of the road. The
driver, Robert McCiow attempted to
turn tho ear back into the road anil
it turned over witii all of the occu
pants who, for the most part, , were
piunod under the car.
Another story is told that Mr. Mc
Crow was rncinir with tho driver of a
Ford and that the Cole had just passed
tho Ford. It is sair th.it Mr McCrow
turned his head nnd said to the Ford-
ist:
"Come on with your little old tin
machine. '
As bo turned to look over his should
er he unconsciously turned his cur to
ward tho side of the road and then
when ho hastened to regain the center
of the rond he turned the front
wheels at such an acuto angle that the
inr turned turtle. It i also hi nuiHt provide equitable distribution ot
that another machine coming in the,e nation's food supplies. Ho has)
opposite direction added to the general done much already and ly( keeping
confusion of the driver who was fome
what inexjwrieiiccd as he had owned
the car but about six weeks.
Mr, McCrow was pinned under the
steering wheel which rested on his
best and neck and his wite was also
pinned under the car and seriously in-
jure.. There were many autos on the 0e ,.nt, a fifth of a pound of butter,
road at this time nud assistance was wnr brPad and plenty of vegetables
soon at hand, the overturned car was eill.n w00, i0 must imnginc, too, that
removed and the injured sent to the t)fi Unito.1 States is at wur, with all
Kaleru 1 usi.itnl. Mr. McCrow lost if'ii- ier bodied men fighting anil two
BViousness soon after he was taken ,iij prisoners, the population of i'o
from under tho ear and this gave J-'"" Juil.t, besides sixty five million Amer
to tho rumor of yesterday th.it ho .lied to feed. Then he must imagine
before he reached the hospital. I'r. ; tilt. ib confronting a natioiuil food ile-
C. H. Robinson who attended Mr. Mr
Crow states today that his patient is
much, better but still not entirely out
of danger. Mr. and Mrs. McCrow were
In this Ichiity on a visit with relatives
at Htavton and at McCoy in Polk coun
ty where John McCrow and a brother
(i. K. McCrow reside.
The father of the injured man is well
known in Salem and was formerly a
member of the firm of McCrow 4 Wil
lard which Inter Ivccume McCrow &
st.ndofl' and is now Stensloff Bros.
packing house
Tho Met 'rows had been
mi to i orvn lis io
attend the com-
tneiicenient ex"rcises wncrr in.-ir m.....
ter P.ughretta McCrow is n student.
The injured are:
Robert Mc row of Goldendale, Wash,
collarbone and ribs fractured, face and
bodv cut and bruised.
Mrs. Robert McCrow of Goldendale,
skull crushed and collarbone broken,
internullv iniurcl.
M'irs llughrctta Met row, daughter,
ribs broken and body crushed and
bruised.
Joseph Fisher of Stayton, hip crush
llSlELLS
THE PLAIN FACTS
If Coming Harvest Is Even
Medium Germany WS Have
Enough for All
NO MEAT FOR CIVILIANS
FOR NEXT EIGHT WEES
Besides Her 65,000,000 Peo
ple She Has 2,000,000
Prisoners to Feed
Note Tho following exclusive inter
view with Herr Von Batoehi, Oer
mniiy's new food dictator, obtained bv
a United Pre9s correspondent at Ber
lin, ib behoved to be the first inter
view granted by Batocki sinoo he was
appointed to office. It is a remarkably
frank discussion . ot Germarhl'!) foott
problems, ii is worthy of not that it
was delayed' several days intransmi
sion, evidently having been held up by
tho German censor and given careful
consideration nefore being passciL
By Carl W. Ackermaa
(United Press staff corresiKindent)
Berlin,via wireless to Sayville, May
27. ( Dola.'d.) Civilians in Germany
must ent. no meat for the next eight
weeks, Herr Adolph Von Itatocki, Ger
many's new food "dictator" now hold
ing one of the most important posts in
tiie empire, told Jhe United Press tu
d.iy, in n frnnk discussion of tho food
situation ns ho found it on BBsuiuinjr
office last week. "
This regulation, the new food minis
ter snul, should cause no alarm in Ger
many and no elation in the ramps of
Germany's enemies. ...
"If the coming harvest i only, me
diuin," he said, "the starvation , of
Germany through the Itrltisn blockade,
is out of tho question."
"Tho scigo" of Germany, Herr Von
Batocki said, has just bfigun. The
coming eignt weeks may cause some,
discomfort to thoso Germans who aio
fond of meat. Furthermore, the meat
shortnge is apt to continue for at least
three niontns, he declared franhryj
"The cattle aro lean now, besuusc
of a poor harvest in 1915," he said.
"They cannot be slaughtered now. We
must wait until they me fattened on
pasturage. But meanwhile we have
enough meat for our military hospital
and places where it is urgently need
ed. "At all events thero )h enough ftiod
in Germany, but it is nacossary.th.it
civilians eat no meat for the next eight
weeks, hiarvation is out of the ques
tion, but we must consider not only the
present food situation but tho situation
during the coming wincr. In order to
insuro a supply for this winter, we must
eat meat sparingly during tho Bummer.
Probably meat cards will bo issued
throughout Germany and there will bo
a few meatless weeks.
'Tho cause of the present shortao
is the bad harvest last year. If the
harvest this year is even medium, tho
food situation will begin to improve
the middle of July or tho first of Au
gust." Herr Vim Huto.-ki's ,joi is to tako
the stranirle hold out of uie British
blockade. Ho must prevent the star-
vation of Germany by her enemies. H
the public well informed regarding the
food situution .ind obtaining public co
operation, he expects to do much more.
To undertake this task, an American
must imagine the United States block
aded, no corn to fatten the euttle ami
,.lu.i, oroii provided with half a pound
- , . artment with authority to regulate
whnt one buvs and eats.
Next Sunday, representative of the
larger German cities will come to Ber
lin for a eoritiirence at which arrange
ments will be nia.b.' for the establish
ment of food depots, where cooked food
will be sold at cost. This scheme has
lieen tried already in sonic pluiecs with
good results. Travelers arriving front
the rural districts report the crop pros
pects excellent. Tlie limners oisi.
the present weather a gift from provi
dence to the (iermnn peopio. n..iu..o
sa.iur Gerard, returning from his hii.it
ing lodge, reported the rye four feet
high.
e.l and bodv cut and bruised.
Mrs. Joseph Fisher, face and should
er painfully cut nnd bruised.
Norvnl Fisher, l, n, bruised ubotit
body and Buffering from shock.
Mrs. W. A. Ward of Goldendale, sis
ter of Mrs. Fisher, colliirbono broken
land body seriously bruised.
Mr, nnd Mrs Andrew r inner anil son
- Erie, of Shaw, Ot., all nH&littjl tiuifled.
