" _ a '. ,- . k #s RAY X r y, _ ' SaY4t 'ti '7.+ , ~f' j . i:.
r was fedo }w Y
e6nae e# =two-. drafiwa
is t6e tlq solar= of p
by my t
(c oda. F-wi& l Upon RowjL) Y sum
NO. 3469. WEA1BQIE..4souIZT =On" 'APILM
.. SoftAY; III 1916c ONE CE14'r.
SECOND BATTLE
WITH MEXICANS
NOW REPORTED
Col. Brown Sends Message to
Consul Letcher and Asks
for Aeroplane.
SUPPLY TRAIN ATTACKED
Gen. Pershing Said to Have
Witnessed Repulse of Ban
dits Near Satevo.
RIOTING IN CUIUAHUA CITY
Thirty Former Villistas Arrested as Re
suit of Outbreak-Details of Di,
order Lacking at Border.
. s.l s The ws.as.- emat..
El Paso, Tex., April i--Col. W. C.
Brown and his black troopers of the
Tenth United States Cavalry had an en
gagement of some character Thursday
evening at the point north of Parral.. in
which city they fought with the civilian
populace on Wednesday last.
The colonel sent a mesea today from
a point north of Parral to American Con
sul Letcher. in Chihuahua. asking that
an aeroplane be sent him that he might
report.
Twenty bandits attacked the United
States army supply train twenty miles
north of Satevo last night. but were re
pulsed. One of the bandits was killed
and several wounded. None of the Amer
leans were injured. Gen. Pershing was
personally with the train when attacked.
Rietiag tn Chlhaahaa.
Rioting took place in the city of Chi
buahua today. according to reports re
esived in Juarsa this afternoon. Thirty
former Villistas were placed under arrest
as a result of the rioting. The oficials
inJuares, aside from admltting that trou
ble took place in Chihuahua City. de
elined to discuss the affair. The rioting
is said to have been started by former
supporters of Villa.
Gen. Pershing sent through a message
today by wire to the TGer. epaortiag a
esngemet last with a band of
forty bandits between San Antony and
Sateve, when a truck train of the Ameri
can army was attacked. Gen. Pershing
was with the train.
He dated the message at San Antonyo.
He stated that the attack had been re
pulsed and that one of the bandits had
been killed. None of the Americans were
wounded.
No Maetio of Villa.
It it could be learned that Gen. Per
shing was personally at San Antonyo
when he sent the message, there would
he a disposition to discredit the report
of the recovery of Villa's body, since he
made no mention of It.
Col. Brown did not state the nature
of his trouble, but it is feared that he
had a clash with Carranza forces.
(onsul Garcia and Gen. Gavira both
denied today that there had been any
attacks upon American property in the
' cinity of Parral. Both also denied any
knowledge of any further fighting be
tween American troops and any band of
Mexicans in the vicinity of Parral.
Three Americans. one of them a wom
an. arrived here today from a mine near
'arral. and reported that there had been
no rioting against American property
when they left Parral Thursday. How
ever, the messages to the Alvarado com
pany declared the rioting took place on
Thursday and Friday nights.
Pope's Sympathy
Extended to Jews
Letter from Holy See Con
tains Prayer for Early
Peace.
(ar ltesaanal News S.ine.)
New York, April 16-Deep sympathy
for the Jewish war sufferers and a prayer
for the early restoration of peace are
contained In a letter from Pope Be=ed=e
today to the American Jewish commit
tee.
The Pontiff also makes a plea for the
observance of brotherly love among na
tions. Irrespective of religious differences.
Through Louis Marshall, preskdent of
the American Jewish committee, a pica
-wee sent to the Vatican recently arging
Pope Benedict to use his influenos to al
leviate the persecution of the Jews In
the countries at war.
Pope Benedict's reply wee received to
day in a letter to the committee from
Cardinal Gasparci. secretary of state to
his holiness
San Antonio. April 16.-Gen. Funston
has received no coaroation of the report
of Villas death, He says the body can
be easily identlfled It it is really Villa's.
1 " could not he fooled about it." said
Gie. Funatons tonight. "I would know
the body of Villa however mutilated it
might be by the teeth end the hair and
no other body could he pa=sed e n m
as tkaa aft he hemat *
TEUTONS SEEK
A SHOW DOWN
Former French Cabinet Offi
cer Says Neutrals Will Be
Forced to Decision.
KAISER ADOPTS CAMPAIGN
TO GAIN OR LOSE FRIENDS
By GABRIEL HANOTAUX.
Former FSed Misiger of edga Belaios,
(Br International News Sarie)
Paris, April 16.-Chancellor von Beth
mann-Hollwelg's Reichstag address, com
bined with recent events, shgws unmis
takably that Germany has definitely
adopted the policy of forcing the neutral
nations to declare finally for or against
her.
Germany must have wheat, rubber,
copper, petrol and cotton. She must have
ports as bases for her sea operations and
coast line and territories which her staff
consider Indispensable.
If the neutrals do not allow her to ob
tain these things peacefully she will
seize them just as she invaded Belgium.
She is now putting a heavy strain on
Swiss neutrality by deliberately dropping
bombs in Swiss territory. In order to be
able to violate Dutch neutrality she ac
cuses England of planning to land troops
in Holland.
Neutral newspapers are still flooded
with German offers to buy leather, cop
per, cotton. rubber and petrol and trade
with Germany's continental neutral
neighbors has reached abnormal propor
tions.
Secret contraband trafflo is also being
carried on through the mails.
But Germany is no longer satisfied with
the attempt to supply her needs by these
occult ways. She intends to fores the
neutrals either openly to help her or to
suffer invasion.
CORNELL HEAD FOR HUGHES.
Presideat schmama Foitst is Rec.
erd et Justiee.
New Yorlr, April 16.-Pres~dent Jacob
Gould Schurman, of Cornell University,
came out for Justice Hughes today. He
said that Hughes is the man on whose
record andi character the nation can reof
as a guarantee of statesmanship in the
management of foreign end domestIc af
fairs.
H. said that as Gov. Hughes became a
Supreme Court justice two years before
the splt in the party.4 hIs nomination
would consummate a reunion of the partyc
as that of no ether man could, and a
united party in einstial to Repubsiean
scss
Sixty Zeppelu for Attack.
Brockenhurst, Eng., April 16.-ord
Montagu, speaking here. said- "Germny
has siaty Zeppellns which, by May 3gwpll
he avehahien fne' u.. .. en..ns. -_
li
UP TO THE CO
Maj.Tompkins S
During Batt]
300 Carrar
kveial to The Washington Herald.
San Antonio. April 16.--A. message re
elved this evening from Gen. Pershing,
lated Satevo, Saturday, gives more com
tlete details of the battle at Parral, when
he American troops were attacked by
arranza soldiers and a civilian mob.
According to this report, Maj. Frank
rompkins, with two troops of the Thir
eenth Cavalry, M and K. consisting of
only about 100 men, marched Into Parral
Wednesday afternoon and were pleasant
y received by Gen. Lozano, the com
nandant, and the civil authorities, who
tpparently welcomed the Americans. Gen.
Aozano designated the encampment for
he American troops and offered to ac
ompany the Americana to the camp site.
Riding alongside Maj. Tompkins, Gen.
.ozano started with the troops from the
amp when soldiers of the Mexican gar
ison and a civilian mob attacked the
tmericans. Knowing these were Car
anza soldiers, Maj. Tomnpkins did not
want to make a stand against them, and
wtreated to near the camp site, where
he American troops, outnumbered two to
me, took up a position behind a railroad
embankment.
British Aeroplar
Hangars in
lpecial Cable to The Washingto Hersaid.
London, April 16.-Starting out from a
British naval base "somewhere in the
tegean," three British naval aeroplanes
ew to Constantinople last Friday and
tombarded a powder factory and aero
lane hangars in the Turkish capitaL.
Desptte wind, rain and thunderstorms,
til three returned safely, having achiev
d the greatest aerial feat of the war,
o far as distance is concerded.
The flight to Constantinople and back
'overed a distance of more than 3i0
nie. At the same time another British
lenpiane flew to Adrianopie, where
tomba were dropped on the railway eta
Petresed Reports Grand Dmke
TwMenty Mites frem Fees-es.
Petroad, April i.-The Rutssian army
fthe GlAnd Duke Nicholas Ia within
wenty miles of Trebisond. the great
'urkish Black Sea port., according to an
Ulcial statement Issued hy tihe gensea
taff tSot. '1he stateimsnt 'aye:
"Supaported by artillery on sea mnd iang
ur troops storned the Turkish appetton
a -the left bank of ithe Kara. B verity
14 ) ~estofTbond-- We ar
WNDER-IN-CHIEF!
hot in Chest
le at Parral;
izistas in Attack
While making a defense they were
tanked by 300 Carranza soldiers, who
::ame up from the other side, driving the
americans from their improvised shelter
and pursuing them in their retreat.
For eight miles the fight continued,
with the Mexicans suffering a loss of
forty soldiers, including one major and
mne civilian killed, and many wounded,
and the Americans losing two soldiers
Ind six wounded, including Maj. Tomp
kins, who suffered a slight wound in the
:hest.
At Santa Cruz, eight miles northeast of
Parel, the battle ended when the Amer
cans were re-enforced by Col. Brown,
with a squadron of the Tenth Cavalry.
Later that same night, Wednesday,
hfaj. Howse, with a squadron of Ameri
ren troops, reached Santa Crus from La
Borja. and reported he had had several
encounters with Mexican soldiers, pre
sumably Villistas.
One American was killed and one
wounded. He did not know the number
If killed and wounded on the Mexican
side, but had reason to believe they
numbered a score or more.
ies Bombard
Turkish Capital
Lion. This machine, too, returned un
harmed.
The Turkish war office admitted in a
statement tonight that "villages near
Constantinople" were bombarded "un
successfully" by two enemy aeroplanes,
but made no mention of the attack on
he hangars of the capital Itself.
L~ast Fridanv's raid was the second .sub
etantial achievement of the new type of
British naval planes since the outbreak
of the war.
On March 7., last, a squadron of five
seapianes were convoyed across the
biorth Sea by warships and bombarded
the "home" of the German planes In the
province of Schleswig, east of the Island
af Sylt.
SEES WAER WITH GEEMANY.
Lemden Newspapee Tells of Psedie
tisas et Brek.s
London, April 16.-Rteynolds Newspaper
tays that, according to private advices
eceived in Incndon, big .finencial in
tsss in the United States calculate t~lat
indomatie relations 'betweess Germany
iiU the U'nited States will be broken off
sOisa fortnight and' that wa. wIll be
Mi~aa'e within a mnth
KUT-EL-AMARA
NEAR TO FALL
Berlin Receives Dispatches.
Stating British Army W
Have to Surrender.
40,000 TROOPS EXPECTED
TO LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS
Speial Cable to Tbe Washington Herald.
Berlin (via Amsterdam), April 16.-Dis
patches from Constantinople voice the
absolute certainty that the 40.000 British
troop'. under Gen. Charles V. Townshend,
bottled up by the Turks since the begin
ning of the year in Kut-el-Amara, are
doomed to surrender. Cut off from the
outside world except by occasional aero
plane communication, and the nearest re
lief, under Gen. Aylmer. about 2 miles
down the river, the main British army In
Mesopotamia, according to advices from
the Turkish capital, le being gradually
starved out.
Comments in the German press on the
Mesopotamian situation are extremely
optimistic. Military critics here assert
that the Turkish war office has been con
servative in all Its statements, and offer
the psychological explanation that Turt
key proposes to have the blow, which Is
declared Inevitable, to strike hard, and
above all suddenly.
Turkey, It is argued, needs to strike
such a hard and sudden stroke as balm
for two sore disappointments: the suc
cessful evacuation by the allies of the
Gallipoli Peninsula, and the fall of Erse
rum.
The surrender of ,000 British troops,
who at one time stood practically at the
gates of Bagdad. would more than
counteract these two disappointments.
It Is for this reason that Enver Pasha,
the TurkIsh war minister, Is expected to
contInue to center all his milItary
measures and consIderations upon a com
plete victory at Kut-el-Amara.
"IRea Crones" Clue.
Toledo, Ohio, April 16.-A St bhil pasted
upou-the heck of which was a drug store
sticker bearing the skull and crossbones
and the name "Jean Crones," was fur
nished to the police today. tt was turned
over to the police by a taxIcab driver, to
whom It was given by a man he took to
the union statIon shortiy after mIdnIght,
"Pe' Bad Boy" Author Dies.
Milwaukee, Wis., April I6.-George W.
Peck, soldIer, author, former governor of
thIs State. famed for hIs "'Pecks Bad
Boy.' and elimilar humorous stories, died
today after a six months' Illness, whieh
at no time was supposed io be dsngerous.
Ser ?n0 Reseha Re.
Rome. Apil 1,-The Serian crews
prince arrived actmm. the me.s.
PANCHO VILLA'S
GRAVE REPORTED
FOUND ON RANCH
Mexican Officials Declare Body Now
Is Being Brought to Jaurez by De
tachment of Carranza's Troops.
HIS IDENTIFICATION POSITIVE
Bandit Chieftain Said to Have Succumbed
to Gangrene in Wound in Leg-Sub
Chief Points Out Grave.
Villa's Death Reported to State Department
In Message from Colector of Custems Cobb
The report of ViWne death was feficlEy -.....onam d te 6
State Departsent last might by Ce-aer of Cute. Zack Cebb at 1
Paso.
Sewetary Lansing smed the felowiag saa-a after retellag
Cobbs report:
"Zack Cobb, eolcter of eas--. at El Paus, repat that Canems
autasoies at Jearu lferued him that the dead dy o4 V16 bas boom
feuad i a place and ----er mt ad. The body wE bo breaght M
Cibma-ea from C.i: by special train t..ight."
speeti to The was.hmetn eesed,
El Paso. Texas, April 16.-Pancho Vlla's body was taken out
of its lonely grave on a ranch near San Francisco Borja, near Cusinsi
riachic, Chihuahua. and positively identified, according to Mexican
official.advices and private messages from San Antonyo, Mexico. to
day. The bandit died from gangrene, as a result of a woued in his
left knee.
ARMY MAY BE mnNIATELY WITAYI.
If the death of Villa, generally. cgted ee te boedar, is true,
the United States army will be immediately withdrawn from Mexico,
the object of its entry having been accomplished.
The story of the finding of the body came from several sources.
First Carranza officials received messages from San Antoayo and
Madera. both in the state of Chihuahua.
CONFrRMATION IN PRIVATE IMUAGE.
Later a private message from San Antonyo. Chihuahua, confirmed the
finding of the body, and gave the details.
This message said that a former Villa colonel. captured by Gen. Cavazoas,
a Carranza commander, offered, if his life was spared, to show where Villa
was buried. The offer was accepted and he led a command under Col. Carlos
Carranza, nephew of the First Chief of the constitutionalists, to the lonely -ave
of the Mexican bandit.
BODY POSITIVELY IDENTIFIED.
The message said the body was positively identified on being taken up,
and that an examination showed that death had resulted from gangrene, as
a result of a gunshot wound in the left knee. The body was being brought to
San Antonyo, to be taken to Chihuahua City, and then to Juarez, the message
said.
Andres Garcia, Carranza consul in El Paso, as soon as he received the
first report of the capture of Villa, sent a telegram to Gov. Gutierrez, of the
state of Chihuahua, asking him to have the body of Vill'a sent to Juarez that
Americans might view it and satisfy themselves of the death of the bandit.
CELEBRATION HEID IN JUAREZ.
Consul Garcia expressed great pleasure over the news and gave it full tied.
encd. So did Gen. Gas ira. of the Juarc garrion, and the Juarez people gener
ally. The celebration which wva in prorrc.. ie-erday. renicing over the first
anniversary of the defeat of Villa at Celaya by en Ohregon. was made a teo
day affair, and continued this afternoon and tonight on receipt of the new'
that Villa's body had been exhumed and identified.
The story of the location of the body tallie' with that of a week ago re
garding the death of Villa. It wag stated at that time that ie died somewhere
in the vicinity of San Antoyno. or Sateso, and had been huried on a ranch One
of the Mexican informants of Gen. Pershing's men at the time said he could
point out the grave, but it is not known if he wax given a chanee to do so or not.
Amserteams Contise m~sc. grave and had been positively idensil
fled. Villa had been buried. it was
The Amerlcanz did not credit the stated, as he had caused so many
report of the dead and continued their others to be intetevd, with his Eghting
chase after the men who had been' cothes on. ad without any sort of a
known to be with Villa. In the hope covering except his eryday wearing
that Villa was with them, or at least, apparel. The message fromn km As
If he was he would be captured. oiao today said Vlla's trousers on
The Carransistas placed more credit hi. right log had bose Kpit because
In the report, and immediately took or the terrblswltgestngro
steps to locate the bodymit possible the gngre e iteutngo frees
By accident. Gen. Caass who foughti received at Guerrero.
with Villa at G uerrero, and whose~ That the badit chief suffered great
forces drove the Viltistas out of the agony before his death is reported
town, made a' prisoner of a former from my souee. u wa re.
colonel on the staff of Villa. The pets- firmed last night whon a party of
oner admitted that he had been with' seven aMextcans reachbed Juares and
his chief in tis tast days snd said he said that they had escaped from Villa
was present at the burial. For the at Satevon. at which time he was he
pr ice of bin life, he offered to convey lieved to be dying, but was riding
the Carransistas to the grave, where might and day, cursing the Americans
they could exhume the body and satis- is mine breath and cerying out in pais
fy -themselves. Is another.
Gen. Cavasos detailed Cel. Carransa
for the rommand. and Instracted hi kg
to shoot the former Vittista If he at-, Middletown. N. L April 1.-The m,
tempted to get sway or his story ~ of e has been bequeathed is Thr-i
proved fase. They were sent o'ut fronm itepitat here by lbe will of Jobs W.
Cuui. the informerC assertiag sitet Vli. Arteman, who died sindiemly in the
la's body could be found ou the ranch bekea .5c of Hoery (M a
thirty mites mouth. l ra tet e ek ac
Barid i Figtin Mhe. 3. Mr. Arfman., who ewesO s large
Thi. morning. imesoengets heouigist In' sin-h farm on the outskirte of thm city.
the news, according to the diepatehsef at three different tImes gave Mm is
froma San Antoahe aMadoem. thatlet. Johsis Erageuical Latheqe Churca
4k. bn d b a ama am as a.s.. mea ah.. a woo ... .a -
