T
yjw-aa r'Vjf t
rf' -i
",
final icuening
illritner final
VOL. II. NO. 185
PIirLADEIiPIIIA, MONDAY, APRIL 17, 1910.
Constant, 1010, it Tn rtjsua Lrbom Coupahi.
PKIOJB ONJ3 OE2STT
VICTOR AND VICTIM IN TODAY'S MATCHES
LATEST SPORTS
ft.'H.UIMWMm 'I'lHHPH",1 ittoimmwujjuwtmiTlSmw!!
REPORTED DEATH OF VILLA
STIRS D. S, 'BUT EXPEDITION
CONTINUES PENDING PROOFS
Outlaw Said to Have Died Two Weeks
Ago Prom Wounds and Burial
Place Betrayed by Ex-Villista.
Suspect Ruse to Halt Chase
Consul Letcher Instructed to Identify Corpse, Reported
on Way to Chihuahua City Baker Declares Plans
to Catch Bandit Will Not Be Altered Sup
, plies Sent to Pershing
"WASHINGTON, April 17. One American trooper in Colonel Howzc's
command in Mexico has been killed and two others wounded in clashes with
Villlstas, according to a report reaching the War Department today from
icncral FuiiBton. Colonel llowzc alto reported that Villa was believed to have
gone with a small band into the mountains southwest of Horjn. The Itowzc
report was:
' "Have passed south southeast to Bnlloza Valley. Turned toward I'arral.
Had several brushes with Villistns. Our casualties, Kirby, Troop M, killed;
Pctroski and Clinton. Troop E, wounded. At five miles -from I'arral I met
messengers with information of Colonel Hrown and Major Tompkins' trouble.
1 will awnit orders nnd connect with them. I believe Villa with small band
went into mountains southwest of Borj.t. Ira A. Itaber, first lieutenant sig
nal corps, landed safe but wrecked machine."
r hh l'AsO, lex., April l. iho supposed hoily or I'.nicho Villa has Iiccn
delayed in arriving at Cusilr.iirachic, for passage to Chihuahua City, Car-
ranza Consul (tarda iinnr.usi'id ti'is afternoon, indicating that it may be
days before it is definitely c3tablir.hcd whether or not the bandit leader
is dead.
The remains reported exhumed near Satcvo probably will not reach Chi
huahua until tomorrow, Garcia stated.
The -10 Americans principally newspapermen and, motion-picture camera
operators, who started for Chihuahua City to view the body, also were de
layed. Their special train which left early today was stalled after covering
10 miles.
"WASHINGTON", April 17. General FuiiBton late today reported to the
WarJ)cpartmcnl that six Mexicans who took part in the raid on Columbus,
N. M., had been captured and turned over to the sheriff of that town. The
report was forwarded to General r'tiustnn by Major Sample, commanding the
forces now in Columbus. .
SAN ANTONIO.Tcx., April 17. Private I. M. Schcnberg, sent, into
I'arral rhcr.d of the column to announce the coming of Major Tompkins
command, nqver returned and is believed to have been killed, Gcnral Pershing
stated this nfternoon iff a uippknientary report on the Parral affray. Persh-
j. inK,'B-rcpnrt bore out previous indications of treachery, army officers declared.
Pancho Villa is dend nnd hfs body Is en route to Chihuahua City, accord
ing to Mexican reports today. A
The linited States demands -absolute identilicntion of the corpse before
filtering its expedition to Kt Villa or withdrawing its troops. To this end,
Consul Letcher has been instructed to view the body upon its arrival in
Chihuahua City. General Pershing, who is supposed to be not far from Chi
huahua, also should be able toldcntify the body if it is Villa's. ,
American officials, both on the border and at Washington, however, arc
inclined to doubt. They suspect a ruse to end the outlaw chase.
The evidence thus far indicating Villa really is dead includes:
Wndcra and Cusihulrachlc telegraph operators on Mexican
Northwestern Railway so report to Carranza Consul General at El
Paso, Andreas Garcia. '
"-Dispatcher on railrond at Juarez reports he heard a conver
sation on the wire that Villa's body was in the hands of Carranza
troops.
Dr. W." L. Brown, one oL-tho best-known practitioners in El
Paso, says Villa has suffered so much from hloodpoisoning for a year
(.hat a slight wound would provo fatal. Doctor Brown has treated
him for the trouble.
On the other hand, reports from Major Howze, commanding the 11th
Cavalry, say that Villa has been definitely located west of Parral. Troops
are being rushed la that direction and the pursuit continues.
U. S. DEMANDS ABSOLUTE
IDENTIFICATION OF BODY
WASHINGTON, April 17. Washington
officialdom today discredited tho reports
from Carranza sources that Franclscq
Villa la dead and that his body is being
Continued on Pare I'aiir. Column One
THE WEATHER
r The, EvBNiNa Luuoun prints today, as
part of Its weather news, thv forecast for
the whole of next week based on new dls.
coverles. In solar physic mudo by Willis
I. Moore, professor of meteorology at the
George Washington University, and former
flilef of the United State!! Weather
Bureau, who, working In conjunction with
W, F, Carothers. director of tho Carothere
Observatory at Houston. Tex , lsiues regu
larly a bulletin giving the results of their
observations with regard to waatlur con
ditions. Professor Moore and his asso.
elates have accomplished some notable
results, and have) been able to forecast the
weather two weeks In advance with re
markable accuracy In most Instances, unci
the Evenino Ldobr, as a matter of
scientific Interest, and without assuming
responsibility 'for the accuracy of these
forecasts, prints them for public Inform
ation. t
WEATHER FORECAST .
fated o it urw dltcovtiu In Solqr I'hunice by
WILUS X,, HOUUl: aud,
W, f CAROTUKIta.
Burnt ay, April St Th w&ek will open
with ritinu temperatuiea ami ahowera.
'Monday, April ). ami Tuesday, April
tt Gttar weather Monday and light roj(
tht north. ,
Wednesday, April iff Warmer and u
tettUd. Thursday, April 27, and Friday, April
IS Qlear weather Thursday and general
(rotta. ' ,
Saturday, April ta Warmer with show
err. .
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Showers this afternoon followed by
generally fair weather tonight and
Tuesday with no decided change in
temperature; fresh piceterly windat
( LOST AND IWNDl
BUIODOO Unt T tannins old Boston bull-d-T.
while body. fcrlmlUj marked . reward.
JUml s K cor l.'la sod Vj11- roJd
Mlro Park
BC; I l iXi. urblte leaved or li..l-i in vlrlnltr
Of tftttl y I K- DI.TH lii film at
' Ptupo 'Suu, rw U ret tu Toe Irlo "
0Ucr Ls( gii4 fujiid Ads on fug U
m
WILLIAMS WINS FROM
DAVIS ON COURTS
Matches Between Harvard and
Philadelphia Cricket Clubs
Played Today
nichard N'orrls 'Williams, 2d. represent
ing Harvard, defeated Wllls K. Dals, a
student at the University of Pennsylvania;,
but today representing the Philadelphia
Cricket Club, on the courts at St. Mar
tin's, this afternoon. In n match between
the club and Harvard lawn tennis team.
The scores were G-3, 6-0.
Williams was In wonderful shape for
this early In the season, and in tho sec
ond set, when he got his drives working
right. Davis did not have a chance to win.
Another match played was between
WllUm Hand, Harvard, and Alex Thayer.
Philadelphia Cricket Club, ftand won,
0-1. I5-3.
The matches were played on dirt courts
and were very slippery, although the sun
uhono brightly during the latter part of
the afternoon. ,
AUTO ASSOCIATION APPROVES
. OF RACKS UPlpjivE'S PEAIC
$5000
in Prizes Offered for Event
Over 13-Mile Course
NEW YOrtK, April 17 Tho Ameijcan
Automolle As&ociatloir- ,thls ufternoon
sanctioned an automobile and motorcycle
race up Pikes Peak. The event will be
btaged August 10. It and 13.
The cqursf will be 13 miles, and at
the top the races will hae reached, an
altitude of 14.109 feet. The races prom
is to be the mobt sensational ever staged
Jn the world. Tho motorcyclists will race
on August 10. The first prize will be the
Pike's Peak auto highway cup. About
U90Q In cash prizes also ,wlll be dis
tributed. The autolsts will race on August 11 and
12. The first prize! will be a 11200 silver
cup. donated by SpWcer Ferlrose, ot peit
ver. The victor also will get (3000 In
cash. About 110,000 additional will be
distributed among winning autolsts.
Went Phillies Win by Forfeit
TtM Krtdupan lattu lung cbeluled be
tween Wtft PWlinllpal n4 Central Hush
1UU afternoon at tba ronou' field, satb. and
Cbtator avenue, waa forfeited to tbe weettra
wuugattra becaue Central preaented enJy one
nlover n ,ha time a ,--. ' .;" "
oiayer al ib
stber acnoUiUe ijlnil scbeduled ior tbla alter. I
mwt Wft !, $.mjr, AU IBft
coon were vailed oS uotil a Utr 1
(UU. "
CRISIS IN GREECE
AT ALLIES' GRIP
UPON RAILROADS
Resentment Flames Out at
Moving of Serb Troops
to Salonica
TEUTONS. RUSH PROTEST
PARJS, April 17,-rThc,. Allied, have
established a naval baso in Suda Bay1,
on Crete Island, according to a 'dis
patch from Athens.
LONDON, April 17.
Decisive stepH by tho Allies havo forced
a new ci'IhIh nt Athens with tho possi
bility that firceee mny find herself thrust
Into war ngnlnst her will.
Following tho adjournment of tho
Greek Chamber of Deputies, the Greek
Cabinet and the General Staff today as
sumed absnluto control of tho Govern-ment.-says
a dispatch from Athens.
Tho most important question which de
mands ii solution now Is tho demand of
the Allies for use of tho railway lines for
the transportation of Servian troops from
the Adriatic to tho Aegean coast.
A strong protest has been lodged by the
Central Kmplres against Ureeco giving
tho Anglo-French forces control of tho
railway lines.
Greece Is more completely under the
domination of the Kntente Powers than
at nny. othor tlnip since operations be
came actlvo In the Ilallfans. Tho Indica
tions are that Allied troops will be landed
Continued on Paeo Nine, Column Tw
RAIN PREVENTS BALL GAMES
Neither Phillie's Nor Athletics Able
to Play This Afternoon
Italn. which fell heavily this morning
both here and in New York, prevented the
Phillies from meeting the Boston Braves
at IJroad nnd Lehigh and the Athletics
from clashing with the Yankees at the
Polo Grounds. I
Manager Moran had Intended to use
Alexander today against Dick Rudolph.
This pair will probably start In tho box
for their respective clubs tomorrow after
noon. The Mackmen are again scheduled
to play in New 'York,
$25.00 PAID ON CHESTKRTON
AT HAVRE I)K GRACE RACES
Lobelia inil Tammerlane Are Other
Winners "" ' fternooa
HAVBK DM O HACK VACK.
April 17- The secgud day of racing, like
the first, was murred by rain, and the
track was soggy, Chesterton, Lobelia and
TSmmerlane took first money In the first,
becohd and third races, respectively, Ches
terton, an outsider, hit the machines for
U'5.5U to wn, $15 to p)ace nnd tl.10 to
show. Summaries;
KirtST RACE, for 3-tar-olda and up, sell.
Inc. H furlongs:
1. Chreterton. 120, Ifaynes.S23.00 115.00 14,10
2. Tctlesa, 110. Bchamer-
horn ................ lg.BO T.70
3. Pharaoh. ISO. Doyle .. 300
Time. 1:1S. Monorary, Gentlewoman, Lochlel
and 6crapjer also ran.
SECOND KACi:. 3-year-olds, aetllnff, fur-
1. lobelia. 110, lA-lui ..... 48.10 $3 t u Ja.60
3. Almee T.. 103, Shut,
llnrer
3. Cherry Belle.
hand
')6u,'irore-
0.20 s.so
A HA
Time. :C 2-5.
Bon Otis also ran
Lucille p.. Or. Meals and
THIHD RACK, for 3-year-olds and up. selling-,
mile and 7U yards:
1. Tammerlane, 118, MuU
well . . .... ........ -. 10 80 11.30 M 20
. Saturnus. 107 . Parrlna- '
. ,'S?.. --ii.-Ali- . 80 B.30
! ilttvilllia MVUCVi 4VU
StumerhorQ g.sn
Time. 1.4T 3-5. Napier. Ed Weiss. Tso Lai?
x4 Counsel and Chevron also ran.
Good
FOURTH RACE. for,3-year-old and up. The
Penn SelUoe Stake. BJi furloncs;
i. Fenmouae. 110. Ball ... t5.0 I4.H0 8.10
Saueeler, 1)2, Farrlnaton
The JIaxiuerader. 112.
Saueeler, 112, Parrlnaton
S.0
3 10
Butwell "i ' ann
Time. 1.07 1-5. Ambrose. Mariana O.. VI
ley. (lolden Uat and Virginia M. also ran.
Fifth race, 3-year-Ms, 9 furlongs. '
Skeerface. 11-'. Buxton . . . 12.70 12.20 Out
i, Eddie Henry. 108. farrinstpn 2 60 Out
3. Billy McOi. J02, Scbuttln. w
Ttoe lajl ' E4 Bond s.Uo ran. 0ut
T
Other Snnrlsl nn Piroa 9 11 A IK
-- --- w " --. w
STALLINGS DID
NOT PREDICT
BOSTON VICTORY
Braves' Leader Also Declares
He Did Not Say
Phils Had No
Chance
EXPLAINS POSITION
By CHANDLER D. RIOHTiEfrb-"
win tho pennant easily, and I cud not
say thnt tho Thlllles did pot liava a chaiico
to repeat."
George Stalllugs, manager of tho Boston
Braves, mndo this statement this after
noon, when asked what license lie had to
figure that tho Phillies wcro out of tho
race before ho had even seen them per
form. Stnlllngs declared that ha had
passed no comment on tho sovon other
teams In the National League, nnd he
would not until tho Urnves had played
every team.
What .Stallings did say was that the
seven National l.enguo teams would have
to bo stronger than they were last season
or the Braves would win tho pennant, ad
his team was nlmost 00 per cent, stronger
than last senson and n trlllo stronger than
his team which won tho pennant and
world's championship In 10H.
"I am not paying any attention to the
other teams nnd don't say how wo com
pare them until we have played them all.
I think tho Braves are much strongor than
last seasqu, and the team Is really better
than tho world's championship team.
though Its fighting ability is yet to be
tested.
"Tho rhlllles probably nro stronger than
last season, 'and while I am conlldent that
tho Braves will surprise the fans, I have
not criticised Morun's team. On what wo
Contlnurd on l'uto Tho, Column Six
WM, EDWARD EDDY
AUTO TRUCK KILLS BOY
William E. Eddy Was Playine at, 55th
and Webster Streets
"William K. Kddy. 10 years old. of 1015
South Frailer street, was killed by a mo
tortruck this afternoon at 05th and Web
ster streets. He is the fourth victim of
such an accident in the last three weeks.
The boy was playing In the street, and,
according to Walter O'Brien, the driver,
ran directly In front of the vehicle.
O'Brien turned tb,e truck when the boy
was struck by the front wheels and pre
vented the rear wheels from passing over
Ids body.
He placed the boy In the truck, und
went -with all possible speed to the West
Philadelphia Homeopathic Hospital The
boy was dead beore he reached there
The truck belonged to John Wannnaker.
The dead boys mother Is In Newark.
If. J. If e lived at the South "razier street
house with William Burke, an uncle.
eamvflHivlalaaBaaaaaaasaBH
K. Norris Williams, 2d, on tho left, defeat
ed Williu E. Dnvis, on the right, this
nfternoon at the Philadelphia Cricket Club
by the score of 0-3, 6-1. This was one of
tho matches between the Harvard lawn
tennis tcarn and tho Cricket Club.
DOROTHY ARNOLD
MYSTERY REVIVED
BY CONVICT'STALE
Girl Who Disappeared on
December 12, 1910, Said
to Be Dead
BURIED IN" A CELLAR
- ji ; .
mystery of tlWdi
;i'
-. i-. j
TO T Anl! IT Thai
. I April, 7.
dlsanriearaiice' -c-f Dorothy
T- "-w - .-- , - . -"
Arnold, tho Now Tork 'heiress1,' lrtay-bs-
sqlved by Investigations started by- tho
police today, following tho confession of
nn Inmate of 11 Jihode Island penal Instl
'tullon, who says tho young woman Is
dead. Whllo tho police wero searching
for tho body, tho names of tho convict
and his accomplices wcro withheld.
Illn knowledge or tho mystery, tho
convict declares, begins only after the
death of tho Kill. He Fayaiio does nqt
know what tho "Job" was, but ho was
paid $250 for his part In disposing of
tho girl's body.
"Tho job was framed In a 7th avenue"
saloon In New York," tho convict says.
"A rich man took another fellow and
myself to New Rochello lato one night.
Wo were told to protect the gentleman
In case of trouble. I. did not know what
tho job was about but was paid $260 for
my part.
"We reached a house Just outHlde of
New Hochelle, und a man brought n
woman out In his arms. We wero driven
through New York to West Point, where
tho unconscious woman was carried Into
the house and placed on a couch.
"The next night tho limousine called for
me nt tho New York saloon and we went
to tho house outside West Point. Tho
same gentleman carried the woman
wrapped In n sheet to the cellar, where
a gr.ae was dug and she wus burled.
"The girl was Dorothy .mold. I had
nothing to do with the Job but be pre
pared to protect the gentleman in case
of trouble.
"I sat alongside the woman during the
rido in the limousine and can describe in.
in every detail. If I dared, I could name
the man who was hired with me. My life
would be worth llttlo If the gang that
hangs around the Seventh avenue saloon
knew I told of my part In tho Job."
The convict has recently acquired re
llgion, it Is said, and made the confes
sion in order to ease his conscience.
The prisoner, who has served six months
of a two years' sentence, described Jew
elry, which, he said, he had seen on the
girl's body, and declared ho was positive
she was Dorothy Arnold, He also de
scribed in detail the appearance of the
doctor, together with a young man who
hired tho gunman. He asserted that he
was able to point out the location of both
houses.
The prisoner was born and brought up
I'uiitlnued on I'ure Thrre. Column Two
TWO SCHOOL GAMES OFF
Second Team League, However, Plays
According to Schedule
italn this morning caused the postpone
ment of the scholastic baseball games
scheduled between West Philadelphia nnd
Penn Charter, at Queen Lane, und Kpls
copal Academy apd Iower Merlon, slated
for the tatter's grounds.
This same rain, however, had no effect
on the second team league of the public
high schools. About 1 o'clock, when It
was seen that the sprinkling of monoxide
ot hydrogen had abated. It was announced
that the cub organization would play Its
Inaugural games. West Philadelphia
High second lined up against Catholic
High becond, and Northeast second met
Central High second.
BOYS CONFESS, SHORE THEFTS
Admit Looting Handsome Cottage at
Atlantic City
ATLANTIC CITV. April 17 Search for
professional thieves, to whom detectives
attributed the raiding of a handsome cot
tage on North Carolina avenue near the
beach frQnt. an exclusive district, termin
ated today.
Boy thieves, under arrest for robbing
larders of Chelsea villas, confessed they
had ransacked the cottage from top to
bottom, doing damage estimated at hun
dreds of dollars. Much of the fpralture
waa wantonly defaced.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
y
WASHINGTON... O O O O O O O 1 -
BOSTON 1 0000400 -
Johnson nnd Wilkinson; IUith nnd Thoinfts,
DETROIT OOO OIO OOO 0 0 2-
CLEVELAND OOO 100 OOO OOO-
Covnlcskt nnd StnnrtBCj Cunningham nud O'Ncll.
ST. LOUIS 3 lOOOO
CHICAGO o OOOIO
Davenport nnd Haitlcy; Danforth nnd Sclialk.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
PITTSBURGH 5 3 0 0 0 0 2 - A
CINCINNATI O OOQOI 0 r-, r'"
Knntlchncr nnd Schmidt; Dale and Clark. , - '
CHICAGO 1 O 0 t3 O . f
ST. LOUIS 0 10 0 0 , '
Vaughn nnd Fischer; Doak nnd Snyder.
TUFTS 3 3
GEORGETOWN ...O O -
ADDITIONAL HAVRE DE GRACE RACING RESULTS ,
Sixth race, aitlcn 3-ycnr-olds and up, Wiuncis of one race only,
selling. 5 furlongs Virginia W., 105, Schuttlnger, ?23 00, SS.-ld,
.'jJ'l.TO, won; Casco, 100, Parrhigton, $0 00, ?'1.40. second; Life, OD,
Mountain $10.70, third. Time, 1(02 1-5. Precision, Hnndfull, Elsie
Uoncio, Semper Stnlwait, Memory, Trend, Examiner. Allen Smith
and Dr. Zab also ran.
TWO AMERICANS ABOARD TORPEDOED EASTERN CITY
WASHINGTON, April 17. Consul Lathrop, at Cardiff, Wales,
late todny reported to the State Department that two Americans wcro
aboard the British steamship Eastern City, sunk near Cardiff April
Oby shell fire from a submarine. The submarine's nationality was
not given.
. s
i i..,.wtey.i
icTiA.KT A.u.TjtnTrtrr'r!tiTi5'nYr!rTr.-rr jut' tL.-xSK'
CLEVELAND, 0., April 17,
pany of Ohio today announced a special 'meeting ot, Shareholders for
May 25 to authorise a $3,600,000 dividend, or -JOOjjer cent, to con
sist of nvr stock. Tho company'n balance .sheet of December 31 last
Riiowti a surplus of $Q,749,03S,jind .total assets of $1S,DS1,703. Cur
icnt c.uninrr aie taid to be the greatest in the hbtory of the concern.
SENATE CALLS STANDARD OIL A TRUST
"WASHINGTON, April 17. Tho Senate this afternoon formally declared th
Standard Oil Company a trust, adopting
Jersey, which so described tho organization. Tho resolution called also for an
investigation into why tho price of gasollno is souring toward the -10-cent mark,
despite "tho Federal Trade Commission's report that there Is plenty of crude)
oil on hand."
P. R. T. RECEIPTS SHOW DECIDED INCREASE
A decided increase In receipts was shown this afternoon at a meeting; of tho
board of directors of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company by the reports for
the month of Mnrch, 1916, and also for the nine months of thu fiscal year ending
March 31. The surplus for March, 1916, was J 184,624, as compared with $32,720
for the corresponding month in 191B. In Mnrch, 1914, there -was a deficit of
$41,017. For the nlneunonths ending March 31 the surplus was $951,159, as
against $174,101 for 1916 and $148,000 for the name period pf 1914.
CHILIAN PRESIDENT RECEIVES McADOO
SANTIAGO, Chill, April 17. The President of Chill today tendered a recep
tion to'the Secretary of tho Treasury McAdoo and the International' High Com
mission arriving from the United States on the cruiser Tennesseo. The recep
tion was a brilliant affair, attended by many diplomats and their wives.
GASOLINE PRICE DROPS
ST. LOUIS, April 17. Tho Pierce OH and Gua Company has dropped the
price of gasoline 1 cent a gallon from 20 to 19 cents. Standard Qll Is blamed
for the drop. For six weeks Standar'd Oil has been selling gasoline In this coun
try for 17.9 cents per gallon.
BURGLARS GET $10,000 IN GOLD AND SILVER PLATE &
POUGHKEEPSIE, NV Y.. April 17. Burglars today broke Jnto'-Sprlngslde
the CBtate of Mrs. "William Nelson, and stole $10,000 worth of gold nnd silver
plate. The place was formerly owned by Matthew Vassar, founder of Vassar
College,
WOULD CUT TORK" FROM RIVER AND HARBOR BILL
WASHINGTON, April 17. A bill declared by Its author, to eliminate "pork"
from river and harbor Improvements und tp ropresant the President's views
on the subject was Introduced today by Senator Ncwlaftdi as. u complete substi
tute for the House bill. It proyldes a permanent waterways, commission of ex
perts to plan and carry out Improvements on a coiitlnuod and "comprehensible
scale. It has been urged by President Wilson as o, part of this session's legisla
tion which should be parsed.
AGED OPTICIAN DISAPPEARS A, SECOND TIME
Oliver C. Hess, a 65-year-old opthjiaii, disappeared today; from tjda home at
1607 Walnut street, leaving no message fas to his Intentlpns. 0 March 31 ha
also disappeared. At that time he leffa note saying that he would return qu
April 4, which he did. Doctor Hess had his office at 17th, street below- Market
"The Detective Bureau has been asked to Investigate,
INDIA NOT FOOLED BY GERMANS,' SA.YS MOSLEM CHIEF
PARIS, April 17. "East Indians have not been fooled by the German pjti.pv
ganda. India ts the safest place In the world." This is the message, to Americ
cf the Asa Khan spiritual head, or Pope, of millions of Indian Motloms. a de
scendant of Mohammed and of the most Influential Indianpotentates. He alsa
said America attaches too great importance to reports of Indian sedition. wbr h
aro really due to an Insignificant handful
1 contwued. asi layst
1 8 1
5 10 O
3 13 1
10 3
i!pxzms
Dlroctora of UiJs:Standrfi"d,OiTvCom-
Hi k.
n resolution by Mr. Martino, of Now
of agitators. Tiw country as o, nkult
V
-hJ
y
