1''
THE WEA
Rain to-day anil
IT SHINES FOK ALL
Highest temperatu
; lowest, 44.
Lctniled weather, ma!
IpattK on page 11.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 230.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, APRIL 17, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
w'Her: 16 WMbw fair
PRICES IN U.S.
STILL SOAR AS
DOLLAR DROPS
Fijiiires on Nearly All I'om
inwlities Expected to Climb
Hi til War Ends.
priM'IIASE POWEH OF
MONEY IS BADLY CUT
Jleivliants Face Inclination
to Overbuy With Dis
astrous Results.
Th iipwatd movement In commodity
prices, taking them as ,i whole, con
tinues and shows hut little promise of
Kiting until the basic cause for the
uplift In the market In this country
the European war is lemoved.
it a recognized fact that present
h. iii prices arc due primarily to the
Impetus given our domestic trade by
the heavy buying here of the belligerent
ntlonj since the outbreak of the war.
With foreign Governments stepping
Ir.'.o our domestic markets and order
Ins millions of pounds of metals, many
i. ioes, thousands of cases of clothing,
en of grain and millions of dollars
oith of munitions, the result was that
tl domestic consumer, fearful of being
cjulil short of this or that basic com
:ta1 i) has been Inclined to stock up
h'Auly .it Increasing prices. tomo
tvminodiiy markets It Is . aid that buy
r an; no.v overbought.
Hcce-'tly the features of the general
b-islnts- situation have remained un-rliangc-d
and they continue to show In
creasing Intensity as the spring season
flns anil fair weather promises to fa
clllUIr outdoor activities. A general
hortap.- of materials Hiid labor will
Tie to cheek the work that might oth
ers Ite lie accomplished. According to
tcporls this check will not prove serious,
but It will hold back some of the opera
tion the country at large would like to
Me progressing rapidly.
Full employment and a gradual but
urc advance In wages are reflected by
the retail trade reports throughout the
country. Merchandise Is widely distrib
uted ami retailers arc Increasing their
purchases for some time ahead.
The heavy demand from abroad con
tinue" our weekly exports reached a
ntw high record recently and an abun
dant of money and credit has aided In
rs'MiiE commodity prices to abnormal
points. The fact that price are higher
M that a large number of articles are
"ringing more dollars than heretofore Is
. .'hi ,';,nuMa,!110 approval by per- I
fins w no al e mumw ihn .nln. !... i
soui'i He wis.- to remember that uo.ler ,
. . . " '".i ii
dine circumstances the dollar does not
luue the same purchasing poner.
Th purchasing power of the Ameri
can dollar at present Is less In the ma
jority of Ini-taiices than at any time
..nce the laht perlo.l of Inflation during
the c; II Bdr and the several years fol
.Clng it. Tlie dollar now has a pur
rhu.lng jover of from onc-thlrd to two
thirds it strength a ear or a year and
l months rtgo.
An development or accident In this
irtanc th European war causes the
M'ci-t.itlon of a shortage of supply bv
reason of unusual demand. Prolonged
ret unusual demand Incites buying, and
I! U .t., of men who sell things fear
that they will not be aide to buy ma-(rut-
In -lie quantities they desire and
that their -ntract deliveries may be de-laje-l
they expect following and
reorders
T'te result Is that there Is a desire to
mw ii,,, condition and anticipate It.
rd ir.'hii Inijlnc done In excess of
"l'ilremcnth Thus buying becomes
'Pculaile and cimipetltlon causes higher
IriMs Finally prices reach levels where
crdln c industry cannot support them.
U'nii. ivhant mil the manufacturer stop
wring .niiMticlp.itiofi of a drop In prices,
rl it is tlw n iliat some men Unci that
hey haH oxruncked themselves at high
If els
I'n. e Lege to decline, and when tlie
ren '.irriug burdensome stocks fall to
thin- is ,, mi ui further decline, which
ontn ijs as ii iuIp until all of the
troiind g4ii,s by the rise has been lost
'tn u.ii-tl) soinethlng more.
lnll..un of cr.dlt and Inflation of com
n''"l pricis generally occur at the
Mir. t me. ad ,,M condition Is never
rm.z.,1 until n. i,..,rtoi, and accom
unjuv teriod i,f il,.M.,iin,. ,r,..
tjon 1, Thlll deilatlon and contrac
'i'n fin, ,w mil.ctlon and expansion is
i absolute certainty
UETAL i'MCKS SOAR,
WU WILL GO HIGHER
Andrew c .irneaie's characterization of
i..e Heel iiLlnMri .ih "prlnc.. or pauper"
"-' I'l-llllll CIIU J.UIII-
e- a. Hteel wna pauper. Now
prin e ami long as the abnormal
ra.uj r ,r M am) h.1.1 roducta con.
l-njs it wi,t continue prince.
,u'" "'" "" manufacturers and mcr
il. . . ' " lrl'''' '" "ll,Br '" Mlieitf fur
I I" Ul.lljllltv
to make deliveries
"cause of
lIIOII.IL',,. Illll III ...lllu
, . . .Me mi, ,n ,m.7
Saie u, ,, ,,,, , ' ' v'"
. .vis ,, ' LT 'l'"' " :l, ..?.".'l..pr.
'Pta.' of i, r,i,,,.iu ,,, '. . i .'
"'i 'I ,. ,.i,., . .. '.'.. '.,""".."...
'"'h- -nalnde'r ( , ' yf to'MM- The Government Is re
Jj;I r...., t,.h., , r r , 1 Inctant to arrest him lest It nrouie In
151T n.iiimu n citation amohg the workers whose sav-
Ihe n,.. ,,,, fr.ltlln of lf. M'P0
, w , id,, adduce in price of IS a
'CIV'"1 1 !' "" Vne,i w'tes
'Ml I 'lllii.lul ,.M. I. ..I -
(01111,-, ... .r ; , r , '"ur!" ' c
ton f.,r
!ll e;n
i ne loi iii.ie nr ce of I2K ai...i
a. ..i .
mim iium nrin lor inir-
Ollll.-t' ....iii II l...u . (
u..k " n""n mini ncei-l
iitw as well as piince. The ad-
,, '," ""' 'l"'C Is explained as dun to
re tl,.,roiui, hpeelllcntloiiH on the part
ine r.o ,ds a, l their growing leu-
Cl'.'.u '. "i""" " belter mil than tho
v'" taiii ttd
, -lil na Ahead.
'l'hft ""'" 'iiarket is in alraiit the
" lie conqn,.,,, ,, for prurcay ,,,
i , '"""i' Ince llso iwglnnlng of
'Lr !'"' s":"' ,ir0H1 rllln and
i " "' " ordeieil hundreds of mill
i ' "f "'s of this metal In our mar
om w "'h r'Viori that they aro nearly
J'J u.lt to liceml.ef 3), 1n,
'V" Jinniied from ir, and 17
a pound , 27 amJ 2w cinU
j (: on rowm vagi. I
LABOR FIGHTS COHFUL8I0N.
Vlll Mr nit Breach Between gov
ernment and Worker, Mara M. I.
Spfclal Cablt Dttpatch to Tim St.
London, April 16. J. 11. Tliomaii,
Laborlte member of Parliament. In a
speech to the railway workers of South
ampton to-day referred to tlie news
papers attacking the Government and
the sulfation In favor of unrestricted
compulsory military service. He said:
"The only certain way to lose the war
,.., ..is; (.iinui ui iiiiiiimi will niUUIlU
Hie neck of Cnglund and lCurope would
be to break the natlonnt unity. Towanl
that end the agitators seem to lie drift
In. The workers appealed to Premier
Asnulth to stand firmly by Ills nlcdce
ami never to adopt compulsion for com-
pulsion s sake."
The speaker contended that comput-
slon of married men could not possibly
prouuee more than soo.oon soldiers, i
These, he added, could be obtained, but
at the cost of a breach with labor.
"The workers." said Mr. Thomas, "are
J fully alive to the press Intrigue. They
are setting why some or tnc leaders to- '
day are watting trial and arc deported I
with no charge formulated against them.
while others aro nllowel to defy every '
vestige of the defence of the realm act
and no notice Is taken, we shall resist,
even In time of war, a dictatorship by
the press."
CURTIS PREDICTS ROOSEVELT.
Philadelphia Publisher Think ye
Will Re .Vest President.
Tacoma. April 16Cyrus II. K. Cut-I
tis, the riilladclphla publisher, who
10 1 I
en route home from Honolulu, believes
thnt Roosevelt will be elected Presi
dent unless the Republican party should
spilt again. He said to-day:
"1 as not n Koosevelt man. 1 voted
for Wilson, but the utterly unprepared
condition of the country makes me wish
1 had not. There are a lot of old duffers
around the Union League and other
clubs, in t'hlladelphla who dislike Roose
velt. Home of them have been bitterly
orposed to him, but they're going to
vote for him."
In Mr. Cttrtls's opinion about the best
thing that could happen for the United
States would be a break with Germany.
"It takes about n ton of dynamite
to awaken the average American," he
said. "A break with Germany might
do the trick 1'nless we become pre
pared war with one or another of the
European nations Is inevitable."
FLIERS DROP BOMBS
ON CONSTANTINOPLE!
Trnvol flOO Miles and Shell
Powder Factory and
Hancrnrs.
special lahl? Despatch tn Tar Stye
1.ON0ON. April 16. Starting out from
a Mrltlsh navul bake "somewhere In the
.Kgean." three Hrltlsh njvjl Hrrmilunpt
Hew to Constantinople Friday and bom-'
.. .I-.. .. ... , ,
" i- ioj mm aeroplane
hangars In the Turkish capital.
Despite wind, rain and thunderstorms
all three returned safely, having achleied
the greatest aerial feat of the war, so
far as distance Is concerned. The flight
to Constantinople and back covered n
distance of more than 300 miles. At the
same time another British seaplane fiew 1
to Adrlanople. where bombs were dropped
on the railway station. This machine,
too, returned unharmed
The Turkish War Ofll-c admitted In a
statement to-night that "villages near
Constantinople" were tsimbardeil "un-1
successfully" by two enemy aeroplanes,
but made no mention of the attack on
the hangars In the capital Itself.
The Admiralty's statement follows;
Friday evening trurtc naval aero,
planes threw bombs on the Zcltunllk
ponder factory nnd the aeroplane han
gars at Constantinople.
Another machine bombarded the
railway station at Adrlanople. All re
turned safely. The flight to Constan
tinople and hack measured 300 miles.
The weather was flue at the start,
hut wind, rain nnd thunderstorms In
tervened. A despatch .from TJttR Sun's cor
respondent at Rome says :
"Austrian troops,- Including artillery
men, with several batteries of heavy
guns, have arrived at Constantinople,
which Is now garrisoned by Autri.ms
and Germans exclusively, all available
Turkish troops being on the way to Ana
tolia. "The Austrian' and Germans, besides
guarding ill Sultan and protecting
Enver Pasha, the Turkish War Minister,
who 'is extremely unpopular, being
blamed for the prevailing shortage of
foodstuffs, are destined to defend the
Turkish capital In case of a revolution
and possible attempts to force a sepa
rate pe-tce. Such attempts. It Is be
lieved, would have to be preceded by the
surrender of Constantinople to the
Allies."
STRIP GERMAN SAVINGS BANKS?
I.lebknerht C.'hnrsres Coiiiniandrer-
Ina nf Small I'onds for l.nnn.
Xprclal Cabtr jirrA to Tnr. Srv.
Ixwocin, April. 1" (Monday). Tlie
Unity Telegraph lenms by way of Rome
that Dr. Karl I.Iebknecht. leader of the
..-..I 1 . .. l .1
nCW IllllilCrtl IMIII., Him-1'W.Cll III I IIST
Re rlitnf on Afirll 4 mat Germany n
order to cover her last war loan emptied
tlie Mivlngs banks throiwhout Germany.
All mention of l.lebknecht'K utterances
Ings were commandeered.
"
TWO HURT BY JOY RIDERS.
Tnxleah fa Driven Upon
'i"lr"
Fink Arenac fllrlerrnlk.
.Homebody took a wild ride In a stolen
taxlcab yesterday afternoon and as a re
sult a mother nnd child nre in the IVs
lileri.in Hospital.
Tho ti'Xl llrfcl appeared careen'mr down
l'lfth avenue. At Sixty-ninth street it
dashed upon the sidewalk In front of the
iiotne of Ogden U Mills. Mrs. Vntonia
Pollanz. 32, of 300 Hast Heventy-seventh
street wut wxlklng there wllh her three-
year-old son, August. Hoth were
knocked down and the taxi disappeared.
Hi on af lei ward Patrolman Brautlg.in
found It, badly battered, In front of 101
Katt Klxtynlnth street, hater William
It Icy of 330 Kant Fifty-third street Ap
peared and said It was his anil had bn
tplen from In front of till Third ave
nue. Nobody knows who t tola it.
FRENCH MAKE
TRENCH GAINS
NEAR VERDUN
1
Captlll'C 200 PriSOHCI'S ill
Fitfht to the South of
Douaimiont.
i
I ii e -iJ llMiiMn
1 UiiH.M . A , HIM M(I
RKITLSK OF ATTACK
Sprual CiiMt Hetpotch to Tun St."
Paws, April U. Another French
counlcr """'I the region south of
Douaumout on the east bank of the
Meuse was successfully carried out late
yesterday afternoon. German trench
elements against which the attack was
directed wete captured and 200 prison
ers, Including 'two olllcers, were taken.
The lull in the German offensive In the
Verdun legion, which has been Inter
preted as Indicating elaborate prcpara-
.,. t. ,. , .... , ., " ...L,. ....
,.l.. v . . ' .
continues. No attempt was made at an
advance by the German infantry last
night or to-day, but the German heavy
artillery directed a heavy bombardment
to-day against the sector Hols d'Avo-court-Hlil
3fM, against which the tier
mans have directed much of their energy
recently.
The French attack of last night Is
described In the following nfliclal com
munique Issued by the War Office this
afternoon .
The bombardment continued last
night on the left bank of the Meuse,
on the sector between Avocourt and
Caurcttcs wood. On the right bank
we delivered a spirited attack toward
the end of yesterday against German
positions south of Douaumont. This
effort, which was completely success
ful, made It possible for us to occupy
certain elements of lh enemy's
trenches and capture 200 men. of
whom two were officers.
In the Woevre ourHrst line posi
tions were bombarded Intermittently.
There was no Important cent on the
remainder of the front, except the
usual cannonading.
Hoth German nnil French artillery was
engaged to. day In the Oouaumont re-
glon and there were scattered artillery
nueis iii me woovro.
The War OlDce ln,ued the following
communique thl evening :
On the left bank of the .Meuse, the
enemy bombarded with violence our
positions pi the Hols d' Avocourt and on
Hill 304.
On the right bank there wan activity
on the port of the urtlller forces on
both sides In the rcKlon of Douaumont
and In the Woevre. In the sectois of
Moulainvllle, lluudlomont and I.cs
Kpargc".
The da as i datively calm on the
ret of the front
i BRITISH RAID TRENCHES.
.Mark
.Near Hethnne-I.n
HsTsare
lloail -4-4'aafiil.
Sttcttil Cublr HttvateK to Tin Mv
I.oNtmN, April IC The following re
port form Hiltlsh headquarters In
France was Issued to-night by the offi
cial press bureau
After the explosion of two mines
our troops carried out a small raid
on enemy trenches ninth of the
Hethiine-I..i ltasee ro.ul with satis
factory results.
To-day tint,, was artillery activity
lit the regions of Arias, Neuvllle-St.
Vaast. (Irenay and Loos.
FRENCH ATTACK FAILS.
nermann Report Repulse In Doiinn-
nionl-Vnnx Sector.
.special fable I'l'potrl. to Thk Sc.
Hnni.iv. via Loudon, April 10. A
French attack on the Fort Pouaiimnnt
Vaux sector last evening was nisilsejl
with heavy looses to the attacking forces.
Tlie assault was made In considerable
numbcre and after airolotwed artillery
preparation. The German" took 200
prssnnere.
Tl tllclal statenient Issued by the
German War Otllco to-day says
On both side. of La Hassio canal
the attilltry activity has Increased,
Also there have been a number of lively
mine engagements.
In the Vermellcs district an Cngllsh
position about sixty meteiw (sixty-six
yards) long was blown up by our
mines.
Bast of the Meuse yewtcid.iy eie
nlng there was violent lighting on the
front from Fort Douaumont to tlie
Vans canyon. The Flench, after lunplo
artillery picp.cratlon, attacked Willi
considerable forom, but were repulsed
with heavj losses. About 200 n
wounded ptlwiners were left in our
hands.
"VERDUN TO END WAR."
lialsrr Tells Tri tttnvk Should
Terminate Most lilt Irs.
,er,i t'atilr Ptfpatrh to Tux 9r.
P.iltlH. April HI. In a review of the
recent fighting on the, front north of
Verdun the 7 mips says:
"The Crown Prince's offensive de
livered on April ! against tlie whole
Verdun front was directed especially
against the sector between Avocourt and
Cumteres on the left bank of the, Meuse
up-J the section from the right bank of
tho river to tho woods of Haudromont
farm.
"The Genitalis were repulsed every
where except tn the south of Kethln.
court, where they succeeded In entering
an advanced work after lieavy artillery
had demolished It, Tliey also got it fool
Ing in a trench east of Vacherauville
(on the eastern hank of the river at tho
foot of the Cote rtu Polvre),
"The struggle continued on April 10
around llcthlncotirt and Lc Mort Homme,
and on April 12 a local attack wan made
on the Caurctteu woods.
"The enemy employed rent forces in
thewi attacks. As Indicated by prisoner
taken on the front between llaucourt and
the Meuse alone twelve regiments be
longing to five separate divisions were
used. For the troops representing two
of these divisions this m their flrat
engagement.
"In congratulating the French troops,
Gen. retain said i
'"April P was a glorious day for our
troops. The furious assaults of the
Crown Trlnce'i aoldlora were everywhere
crushed. The Infantry, .artillery, aappera
and aviator of the second army hay
PARLEYS WITH
BERLIN FUTILE,
WILSON THINKS
Washington Hears Ger
many Will Stand Firm for
I Boat Warfare.
'.MILITARY .NECESSITY.'
BASIS OF TEUTON PLEA
Wasiiinutox, April 16.- Germany Ii
ready to make counter proposals or dis
cuss a compromise on the submarine
Issue, but will not cede unconditionally
any American demand hi plltig a radical
modification of her methods of sub
marine warfare. Thl, In a nutshell,
tepresents the ptetent attitude of the
German Government as Ambassador
Gerard at Iterlln understands It
Fi lends of President Wilson sy he
fully realizes this and has reached th'e
conclusion that further diplomatic nego
tlatlons are useless. Honcer, the Presl
dent is understood to have before htm
the new submarine note prepared by the
Secretary of State. Up to a late hour
to-night he had made no appointment
with Senator Stone, chairman of the
Foreign Relations Committee, or Chair
man Flood of the House For.ilgn Affairs
CcKtimlttve. Roth Senator Stone and
Chairman Flood expect to be summoned
to the White House to-mortow to discuss
the situation.
Tlie Presld.nt remained indoots all
miming going oier the data which will
form his Indictment of Gcrm.inv's whole
programme of siibmarTne warfare. Count
von lierristorfT. the Gep.uan Ambassador,
spent most of the day In the country
and shows tin oiitvf.,..i ..... ... .....
! situation.
German Knvo) Hopeful,
Tne Ambassador takes the view tliat
It Is useless p. woi i) In ii.Haiu.i and
thtit If he had permitted ;nmself to be
seriously disturbed every time the sub
marine msiiu h-canic acute he would
have grown gia and old befme now.
t onse.UetitIy the Ambassador Ik watting
calmly until the President makes Ills
next move. Despite reports fiom olllclal
quarters that tlie President H deter
mine.! to force an accounting with Ger
many without further delay, the Ambas
sador is reluctant to believe that Ger
uiauy'x xlesilnt on tlie whole Issue will
not be favorably considered bv tho
United Slates Government.
In discussing, the matter Informally
wltli his friends Count xou HcrnMorrf
states frankly that be would dceplv re
gret leaving tlx United States at the
present time as he hn devoted
his elYori'i ami energy to prevent ;
break between Germany and the United
States. Jut as ,e devoted "the best
yenrs of bin life" t an endeawir to
prevent a break between Gieat Itrltnln
and Germany. Hut Sir IMward Grey
wanted win- with Germany, according to
tlie Ambassador, so hw efforts jirue,t
i " in" Herman view- will lie that
If a diplomatic break with the United
' iii-i.ii.. viiin ine fUliltlarlnn
Issue It will be because President Wil
son, rather than Germany, has wanted
Germany takes the position that It has
bceji willing to make concessions to
avoid a break, and that It In still willing
to make concessions, regardlccs nf the
fact that "Kngland has conceded noth
ing to the Aineilcan demands." Rut
the German Government feels that "mill
tary net.slty in its tight for national
existence" compels It to draw tlie line
against cedlni- rimrhlm. i,i.i. . i.i
""'VI' "lll
cripple the submarine s.s a weapon of
naval warfare
Won't find V Boat Warfare.
Here U the crux of the whole jimtter.
according to the German viewpoint.
President Wilson. It 4s said, wants to
force Germany to adhere to his princi
ples of humanity and contention for
American rights as he understands them
even though the effectiveness of the sub
marine be ciiitaljed. Germany, It s
added, can never submit tn this Tho
German people. It Is explained, are clam
orlng for tnoie rigor In the submarine
campaign, which they he tald as Ger
many's most effective weapon for get
ting even with Ungland. Abandonment
of the present methods of submarine
warfare never would be tolerated by the
Gentian people now, according to oltlcialH
In touch with conditions' In Geimany.
The one hope entertained In German
quarters here is that the Piesldent's
communication will not ically force tho
Issue but will leave a basis for ills
cusslon and compromise. If President
Wilson will bn satisfied with a more
detlnlte understanding as to the warning
of merchantmen by German submarines
the German Government will meet him"
half way, It Ih said. Likewise, If the
President desires Germany to reconsider
and refraino Its entire regulations gov
erning submarine warfare Germany will
wllllnglx enter Into diplomatic parte)
on the matter and even go In the extent
of promising reforms which the Herlln
Foreign UMlce believes would prove emi
nently Mitlsfactory to the United States.
Wnnlel Arbitrate question,
Tills pnunlse for the future, it is said,
would be backed by assurances that past
"regrettable" occurrences will bo amica
bly adjusted by n mixed commission or
submitted to any form of arbitration
which the President may suggest.
To this extent Germany Is willing to
nccede to any polnta the United Hlates
may wish to make, but on tls- main
Issue the actual curtailment of the ef.
fectlveness if the German submarine
campaign Germany Is determines! not to
yield. Furthermore, Herlln will lake the
View, it Is said, that the United Htiit.H,
not Germiiay, would hn held responsible
for any break In friendly relations that
iiiIkIiI it-ult from the President's In
slstence em the main Issue,
Officials at the Hliile Department ex
plain that It Is the main Issue only that
Is really Involved In the President's tight
for tho protection of American lives on
the high seas. The Prisldent cannot
obtain this protection, they say, so long
as Germany udheres to tho present meth
ods of submarine warfare. i:ither tho
Preoldent'H fight for principle or Ger
many's so-called fight for "military
necessity" must glvo way, they add. It
Ii stated, furthermore, that Germany fully
realises this,
The Incompatibility of Gennany'a sub
marine warfare with the President's
principles for the rights of humanity and
for American rights Is said by officials
to-night to -explain why Germany's good
Con Ha Ufa1 on fooaei Pagt,
FORD MAY HEAD
THIRDPARTYON
A PEACE BASIS
Uabbi Wise Tells of Steps
In OpiMise the Two Old
Oro-unizatioiis.
foi:soimm:kpaiKdxkss
HACK THE 3I0VKMEXT:
A "third party" movement, based on
two principles, progresslvlsm nnd anll
mllltarlsni, with Henry Kuril. Frank
Walsh, chairman of the Industrial Re
lations Commission, npd Herbert lllge
low of Ohio as Its Presidential possibili
ties, has already made great strides In
the middle West, according to lUbbl
Stephen S. Wise, who returned yesterday
from a tour of the leading cities In that
inert of the country, during which ho
made speeches against preparedness.
The movement will probably reach the
crystallization stage in the course of the
next few weeks, but Dr. Wise would not
enter Into a discussion of details or per
sonalities in connection with It.
Dr. Wise, Amos Pinchot, Mr, Hlgelow
ami Prof Scott Nearln were the lending
speakers In the nine day tour lust ended.
Dr. Wise did uj care to say anything
about Ford, Walsh and Hlgelow In con
nection with the projected "third part)"
until the reporters :u ,H house last night
showed him a telegiam from Pittsburg.
1 nls stated that the tour called the
truth alsnit preparedness tour" found
that there was much middle Western dis
cussion about an antl-milltarlst party
movement and mentioned the three
names as the. pr .liable party leaders.
. i:na rlloi,, sa Or. Wise.
"I bellel,. 11 ii,, ..v.,..- . .
., , " I .tiiuil IO say
th.y they have been so mentioned." n,'
Wise then said
i7'"m .'.h" fin,ler "f lh" ,"l"'"-in wrote
w ith authority was continued by the fact
that he was the public Ity agent of the
nntl-.nll.tarlst committee- which cot.!
due-ted the tour during which Dr. Wie
and tin- others spoke. It .,., learned
too that if the "third , S
s ..igaliU.itlon will be perfected larg.lv
through the efforts o( Itudolph Sprockets
or .-.hi I raiiclsco. who is now in the
l-it M.iei-kel i 1 ML' earned the
name of the "Wilson ltepuf.lle.cn." Ho
went on the stump for Mt. Wilson,
iv .,""'cr "l,,'ak" on the tour with
Dr. Wise were convinced of an Imprcs
s ve sentiment in the sections they
Melted for nn anti-tnllltarlst party. Itii
ncc.-lty from their point of view wa.
expiess-d by Dr Wise In th. wav If
the two old turtle, the Democratic and
J.epulill, an. stand upon platforms of pre-par.-!nes
,! pllt fort)l ,.,, (.1t0,
pledged to that end those people who
do not want militarism In this country
"ill have no other course than to
or nine- th.-:r own partv and put their
own candidates ; the Held
".-peaking for mself !lt not for the
nnti-nilllt.irlst coinmitte...-' Dr
U Ise. --my Journey has led me to Oei
that the time may be nt hand for the
creation of a new party, a pirtv Hint
sbn 11 be uiieiti. vocally nnd unalterably
iHiti-mtlltnriM. a party that shall bo
lundamentallv iirogreselve I ,v fimda
ntentally tirogreesive. for I ant 'thinking
or that Iniprovlsi-d im- opportunely
abandoned progresslvism adopted In
otilci- to elect a miiHt fascli.atlng gentle,
man to the Presidency
' "iil.-l o l-lubi Militarism.
"If a progressive and antl-milltarlst
party is to be founded, a I believe It
! must b... Um purpo will not be to give
(any man a bully time In the White
.House its aim will lie to iioiiii ..in
form that shall express tlie iil,hnrr,.n
of every American of the militarist ten-J
oen. ies wiucii to-day endanger tlie verv
life of our democracy. Who are to ho
Its candidates? The American people
who believe in the perpetuation of dem-oc-ratlc
Institutions and who loathe tlie
possibility of establishing European mill,
tiirlsm In our land the American peoplo
will name them "
Dr Wise said lie understood that
there would be n meeting of the guidlnp
spirits among the antl-mllltarlsts In the
course of the tievt few weeks, but where
and when lie could tint tell It Is prob
able that Herbert Hlgelow, who was
chairman of the Ohio Stale constitu
tional convention a few years ago ; Amos
Pinchot and itudolph Spieckels are pre
paring plans. The movement s distinct
from the- strictly pacltlst movement, salel
Hr Wise although It ts believed that
if sucli a party is founded it would gain
tin- support of the paclllsts as opposed to
the iiiitl-uillltarlstN.
"The i:.ist," said Dr. Wise, "cannot
understand how deep is tlie feeling of
the Slates of the middle West against
what Is believed to be the artificially
btlmillate-d preparedness panic, and the
West Is rlKldly Indignant at those poli
ticians of small mid smaller degree who
an- making the preparedness question a
matter of partisan advantage. President
Wilson's earnest speeches evidently
made a deep Impression upon the com
munities that heard him, yet It Is felt
that the President's preparedness pro.
gramme t almost moderate by the side
of the Wiioil-Kletcher-ItoosDvelt-Onrd-ner-.Meiikcn
programme, tin ow ing to
gether the big and the little."
full for .lull lit llooai'ie-lt,
"At th meeting ill Kansas Cit), at
tended by alsjut t.dfiO men and women,
some unci In the audience shouted at me,
'Why don't you give It to Itoosovelt''
I answered, 'If nece ssary we-ll take care
of tin- I'oliinel on election day,' and the
uudlence roared Its approval,
I "After ten days of contact Willi tho
gieat Inland e-nipliiY continued Dr.
Wise. "I it I it pie-pared to say that If a
referendum a national referendum
could be taken to-morrow on the uues
Hon of militarism via preparedness, an
iiiiineiiM number, possibly cvrn a major
ity of the American electorate, would by
their vote register their unwillingness
to have- tho republic Hung into tho mili
tarist maelstrom. To urgo that the mid.
dlo We-st Is Indifferent to the menace of
Invasion or attack Is an Intolerable libel
upon ono of the most American sections
of the country, certain In the event of
war to give unstintedly of Its eons to
the Hi-ivlce of their country.
"I should say the middle West Is alive
to the menace of militarism involved in
any such preparedness programme as Is
being urged by the extremists to-day,
Kor example, whenever tho Slater bill,
which has passed the State Senate, was
referred to by Amos Pinchot or any
speaker a wave of Indignation swept
over tho audiences at the thought of
compelling boys to undergo the military
tralnlnc,"
U. S. TROOPS INVITED TO
PARRAL, THEN SHOT DOWN ;
VILLA ALIVE, SAYS HOWZE
GEN. PERSHING'S REPORT
ON THE PARRAL FIGHTING
WASHINGTON, April 16. The following report, dated yesterday,
from Gen. Pershing, commanding the United States forces: in
Mexico, "was transmitted to the War Department Ity Gen. Funston
to-night:
" 'My telegram of yesterday confirmed. Full report from Col. W.
C. Brown, Tenth Cavalry, and Major Frank Tompkins, Thirteenth Cav
alry, this morning. Frank Tompkins's column, Troop K, Thirteenth
Cavalry, nnd Troop M, Thirteenth Cavalry, entered Parral 1 1 A. M. on
the 12th inst.
" 'Frank Tompkins, preceding, was cordially received by higher
civil and military officials. Military Commander Gen. Lozano accom
panied Major Tompkins on way to camp.
" 'In the outskirts of town groups of nntlve troops nnd civilians
following, jeered, threw stones and fired on column. Major Tompkins
took defensive position north of railroad, but was soon flanked by na
tive troops and forced to further retire.
" 'About 300 Carranza troops joined in pursuit and Major Tomp
kins continued to withdraw to avoid further complications until he
reached Santa Cruz, eight miles from Parral. Fighting ceased about
fifteen miles from town. Major Frank Tompkins deserves great praise
for his forbenrance.
" 'Gen. Lozano attempted to control his men when firing first be
gun, but failed to.
" 'Col. Brown with Major Charles Young nnd a snuudron of the
Tenth Cavalry was eight miles away when notified, and joined Major
Tompkins 7 P. M.
" 'Reported privately forty Mexicans killed, nil soldiers, including
one Major.' One civilian wounded. Americans killed, two; wounded,
six; missing, one.
" 'Major Tompkins slightly wounded by spent bullet.
" 'Major R. L. Howzc, Eleventh Cavulry, arrived Parral yesterday
from San Borjn nnd Unlloza, having had several skirmishes with Villa
men. One man killed, one wounded.' FUNSTOX."
VILLA DEAD, BODY FOUND,
CARRANZA CHIEFS INSIST
Bringing Remains From Grave at San Francisco Borja
to Chihuahua to Get Identification Army Offi
cers on Border Doubtful.
I. Ml mil , April 16. lien.tllirrgon,
Minister of Hal, last night announrrd
thai Villa was dead nnd had been hurled
In the village of San l'ranrlro llor.la.
I he vtar Department had previously
rrrrlied n inrsvage staling that Ibe
bandit's bod) had hern exhnnird by
Carlos Carranza and hi being taken by
blm and his soldiers to Clilhuiihua Pit).
Kt, I'so, April lti. Pancho Villa is
ele.ul unci his body has been taken out
of Its lonely grave at San Francisco
Ilorja, nrar ('uslluiiiluclilc, Chihuahua,
nnd positively Idi-iitlllcd. according to
Me!im seml-otllclal ndvice.s and private-
messages from San Antonio,
Mexico, to-d.iy. Villu bad died from
gangrene us a result of a wound in hU
left knee, It cms said.
Tho story of the tlncllng of the body
ivttie from several onrccs. First C.ir
rauza ollk-ials recc-lvevl mcs-wins from
San Antonio and Madera, both In tho
State of Chihuahua. Later a private;
tiii-ss.igi) from San Antonio. Chihuahua,
also told of the tlncllng of the lody anil
gave the- details.
This message naid that former
Villa Colonel captured by tit-n, Cava
7.os, a Carranza commander, offered If
his life was sparoJ to whovv where Villa
wa.s burled. The offer was accepted
and ho led n command under Col.
Carlos Currnnza, nephew of the First
Chief, to a lonely prnve f-ild to be that
of the- former Mexican leader.
Tho tiie-ss.ige until the Kuly was posi
tively Identified on being taken up and
that an examination )iowd that death
had re-siilti'd from gangrene as a result
of n gunshot wound in the left knee.
The body was being brought to S.in
Antonio to be taken to Chihuahua city
and then to Jtinrez, the message said.
Story I Sat ( reel I led.
liter reports from FunstonV head
quarters at San Antonio and from other
points, tend to discredit the .Mexican
claims of Villa's death,
Andres (iaicla, Carranza Consul In Kt
Paso, hh soon as he received the fliet le
port of the rapture of Villa, sent a tele
giant to Oov. Uutlerre-z of the State of
Chihuahua asking liliu to have the body
of Villa sent to Juarez that American's
might view It nnd satisfy themselves of
tile- dentil of the b.uullt.
Consul (tarda expressed great pleasure
over the news and gave it full credence.
So did lien, Oinvlra of the Juarez gairl
son and the Juarez people generally.
Tlie celebration which wax In progress
In Juarez yesterday, rejoicing over the
first anniversary of the defeat of Villa at
Celaya by Oen, Obre-ion, wim made u
two day affair and continued this after
noon nnd to-night on receipt of tin- m-ws
that Villa's body had been exhumed nnd
Identitlul,
The stoi y of the location nf the body
tallies with that told b) Cartanza's fol
lowers a week ago ugardlnt; the death of
Villa. It was slated at that time that he
died somewhere In tlie vicinity of San
Antonio or Satevo nod had been hurled
on a ranch. One of tho Mexican In
formants of Hen. Pershing's men nt the
time said he could point out tlie grave,
14 1 It lee not known If he was given a
dint ice to do so or not.
. The Americana did not credit the le
pott of the death and continued their
rluucc after the men who had been knuwn
to be with Villa, In the hope that Villa
vvao with them, or at least that If wa.t
he would be captured,
This morning messengers from the
Carranza detachment In Sun Francisco
Ilorja brought In the news, according to
the despatch from San Antonio ami
Madera, that the body had been taken
out of Its grave nnd had been positively
Identified, Villa had been burled, It was
stated, ns lie had causevl so many others
to be Interred, with Ills fighting clothes
on and without any sort of a coveilng
except his everyday wearing apparel,
Tho message from Snn Antonio to
ilay said Villa's t consent on his light leg
hud be-en split because of the terrlhlo
swelling resultlns from tho gunshot
wound received at Guerrero,
That Villa suTered great agony be
fore hlti death Ih reported from many
sources. A party of seven Mexicans
reached Juarez laat night and uald that
they had escaped fiom Villa at S.etevo,
at wlilc li time lie was bclle-ved to be
dying, but wns tiding night and da v.
cursing the Americans In one breath atul
cr.vlng out In pain in another.
These linn were being held pr.soneis
by Villa, thej said, but as death drew
nearer lend his men were cliiveti on" In
vurloiiK small bands by the continual at
tacks of the American and Carranza
troops he was unable to tniard his prison
ers and they ecapcl.
Ono of these men, after learning the
story to-night that the body nf Villa
bad been dug up and lilentlpVd. snicl
"We knew when we Ictt Villa that he
could not live Ills leg had swollen so
large that his ttousers leg had been cut
open. The wound was n bad one and
the broken Imnes wore protruding He
had only the services of a native doctor
when shot and the doctor did tin; best
he could to remove the pieces of bono
from the knee with his pocket knife.
"There was nothing with which to
prevent blood poisoning and the llrst day
after the wound we all felt mr that
Villa would die, for wo hid seen his
men and our own prisoners are Car
ranza soldlersl die from fallute to have
th'-lr woiin'N treated and vc knew tlie
awful agony that men suffeied under
such conditions
"Villa was brave, however, and he
rode on horseback when .in ordinary
man would have given up. When we
heard him scream with pain we knew
that he was ulTerlng terribly, for he
was not a man to give way tn pain, and
when he was wounded those who saw
the wound dressed said that he never
uttered a groan as the doctor probed for
the broken bones with a knife
As the poison t,egnn to get Into his
sv stein Villa had a high fever and nt
times he seemed out of his head, but lie
never foigot to curse the grlngoes. Ills
fever was so high that his face was
swollen and his brown, sunburned skin
became re-d with the tire of the fever.
Ills Hps were parched and his tongue
was swollen so that lie could scaiccly
make himself und, rstood when we saw
him last at San Antonio, lie was head
ing south and we vvrre sure that he
would die before lie cduld get much
further. I am surprised that he got
thirty miles from where we last saw
h'm."
The message received to-day did not
say when Villa's body was expected to
reach San Antonio for shipment to Chi
htiahun city and gave no details as to
who had reported that It had been ex
humed. Operator !riil Word,
The two messages to the I'airiiuza
officials came from the railroad oper
ators at San Antonio mid Madera These
points are wldel.v separated. The pri
vate message from San Antonio stated
that the body had been rcenvotvil and
"Ih being brought here to bo taken on
a special train to Chihuahua city." An
American sent the message and It was
not In code.
Messages fiom ricn. Pershing and
Americans ofllolals were anxiously
awaited to-night to bring details of the
discovery or mole positive proof that the
body had been found.
Consul (larcla and Hen Uavini both
denied to-diiy that there had been any
attacks upon American piopetty In the
vicinity of Parral and pronounced as
falfcc the telegrams received hero yes.
terday by the Alvarndo Mining Com
patty stating that the plants at Presena
had been looted by Mexicans. Hoth also
denied any knowledge of any further
lighting net ween American troops nnd
Mexicans In the vicinity of Parral.
Itloilng took place In Clilhtiahu.i city
to-day, aivordlng to report received
in Juarez this afternoon. Thirty former
Vllllstas were arrested, charged with
starting tlie trouble. Tho Juarez olllelals
aside from admitting that trouble took
place In Chihuahua city declined to ills
ciien tho r.ffrtir.
CONSUL HERE NOTIFIED.
Telritram Prom 111 Paso Tell, nf
Villa's lien I h,
Juan T. Hums, Mesu-an Consul in New
York, received tho follow lug telegram
yesterday from Andrew, li.nvl.i, .Mexican
Consul at F.I Paso, Tex. ;
"Tim tclogrnplilo o'rators of Cusl
hulrlaohle and Madera reisui that the
Ixdy of I'lincho Villa has been found and
will bo taken to Chihuahua. I will pro.
cure continuation of tho report and will
transmit Ii to you.
"Anpiikh (Iaik-ia "
Consul Hums said vestenlny that the
feeling against Villa In the two townn
mimed was very strong'.
(iiiirison roimiimiiler 31 et
I lie Americans Ten
.Miles From Cit,.
ASSrRKI) HIM OF
FI'IKNDLV IIKCKPTJON
Once Within Town .Mexican
Soldiers Fired on
Americans.
HATTLK WKXT OX
KOI. FIGHT .MILES
1 10 Mexican Soldiers Killed
I Villa Located North
! of I'arral.
Six A.nto.xio, Tex., April Hi. -Tnat
the attack on tho American troops at
Parral last Weciuc-day wan not only
premeditated but carefully planned is
confirmed in a report to-night from
lien. Pershing In which Meijor Frank
Tompkins, says, that the Cnrr.inzn, oflt-c-ers
invited hint und Ills command Into
the town und when in thoy InforriieMi
the America lis thut it site l..nl been se
lected for their encampment Just llh
"tit the tiivvit limits.
A Cnrr.inza otllcer ina tho Amer
icans ti'n mile.i out from Patral anil
extended the invitation m behalf of
tin; inllit.it y and civil authorities of
l'.i rial.
A Mi-cond nio.,:t2e fiom Pershing to
night says that Major Hubert I.. Ilowze
"f tilt- Kl-'Vinth Cavalry ti.rts that
Private Klrby of Troop M vv.us killed
and Privates Kerroski and Clifton of
Troop 1-; were woundi'il.
Major Iloivze. vv ho Joined tin- itter-
I :cin troops at Soma Cruz rcsirtid
1 tl at Villa W.IS lit -.he minima 'ns miuiIi-
west of l..clsirjj. vvlileli t northwest of
I'.irr.il. Major Iluvvze was operating;
in that section ami went from then- on
Wediie.Mlay to S.mt.i Cruz ten tnllcs
northwest of Parrai. lie t-avs lie got
information considered alisolutol re
liable that Villa wa.s in the mountains
there ;ind so teH.rts 111 his message)
which ri-aclie-d lirs-iihniai ler here to
night. He-port Cnitir lie cropln 11 r .
The official teport from Con Pcr-hirir
j e aiiie via aeroplane to .amliiilpa, then
I via wireless to Columbus and llienc.; to
. Oen. Funston by wire. No reports haw
j been received bv den. Funston tegard
; Ing the second battle at Patr.il Ii Is
, belle'ved that the re-ports Col Hrown de.
, sires to send by aeroplane to Chihuahua
clt.v are; about the second flht
I According to this report. Major
Ieiiiiikln.s with two troops of the Thir
teenth Cavalry. M and K. eon-lstln.- of
only about luo men, mnri-licil tut" Par
ral on Wednesday tifternoon and were
pleasantly rece, cd by 1 leu. I.11.11110. the.
I'cmtiwitiiiunt. .Hid the c-ivll niithoi Hies,
who nppatciitl.v welcomed the Aniet
Icutis. !en. l,iiAin,! designated t!lt, t iic-amp-tiii-iu
for the Ann man troops ami of
fered to nci-omp.ni) the Americans to
the ramp site1. Hiding alongside of
Mnjor Tonipkln-', lien l.oatii started
with the troops for :lie camp, when
so'.ilier.s nf the .Mexican gnrrWnn and a
eivilinii iiinh nttai-ki'd the Ann news
Knowing these were I 'at i-.tn.i nol
diers. Major Tompkins did 11.0 want to
make a stand auainsi tin tn and re
treated tu near the e-iinip site, whole
the Amctic.iti troops, iiiittitnulinred two
tn one. took up .1 poMtniu Is-lnnil
r.nlivMil emlsinknie nt.
While making a defen. e ih-v were
flanked by Son Carranza soldiers who
i-aine tii from tin- other side, driving the
Americans from their itupnn ls.-d shelter
and pursuing them In their ivtiv.u
For eight miles the light continued
with the Mexicans siilYirlug a losw of
foity soldiers. Including one major and
one civilian killed and mam wounded
and tin- America's losing two soldiers
nnd six wounded the latter number In
cluding Major Tompkins who suffered
a slight wound 111 the cln si
At Santa Cruz, eight inlle.i noiiho.ist
of P.in-al. tils- battle ended when tJv
Americans were teeiifor. n bv ioI.
Hrown with a squadron of imi Tenth
Cavnlrj
llellri-el lo 10ld Trouble.
bile I'en Pershing did no! so indo ate,
eicn i'unston assiiiin ,s that Major Tomp
kins orib-red his men to withdraw fiom
Parral without llnng when the soldiers
ami civilians began hulling stnnes and
filing on the Americans TM-. In as
sumed because orders to all emm inders
of American tronps lete nvplie I lo hcoM
-lashes with Carranza troops ami inn lo
attempt to occupy towns or cities An
other reason for assunilng Hut th
Aineticaiis did not return the lire in th.c,
It'll. Pershing's report slated (hit Mm
I Mexicans eio killed and wounded when
Major loinpklns tpado Ins stand bch nrt
the railroad embankment and In the run.
nlng light to Santa Cm
eii-n I'lllistou does nn believe Ainepi
can troops used machine guns iigaumt
the Cut r.iutht.is In rutin- more Mexicans
would have been killed and wounded,
lie Is of opinion Major Tompkins's com
j maud bad no machine gun troop or m
would have had It In action
(leu Kunston saUl he regretted that
'Major Tompkins was nimble to hold his
I gmund ut the tullroad embankment, a
I ho considers the moral rrtect upon the
UejUciina would have been exacillator
L& . . r . .,'. , .
'nab
