IIP
#®EW
~mm
i"
cT**Kj
-,v:
•S&*
Today's News
Joday for Tomorrow
i®M.Js it will Be History
is* liiiK-i^tj,
&poit. From Capital Cily
'fMiPfe .Mok*8 .Surpriring ,'
Announcement.
IV0I,UMEF0RTY.TW0lSS®8®SSfl^S?S jsS:
BIASED. VERSION
,|^|F PARRAL AFFAIR
American Officer Reported to Have
''Admitted He Made Error in Entering
Town and to Have lExpreaaed Regret
'V'.'vFor Action General Pershing's Re
port Indicatea American Troopers
Were Treacherously Attaoked.
c%•?».\J[t
mm'
ileilcb City, April 17.—The war of
flee today announced receipt of a die-.
patch In which further details are given
of the Parral affair. It was asserted an
American army officer admitted hie cul
pability for entering the/ town. The dis
patch also says American troops have
ceased their movements southward un
til such time as the negotiations be
tween the United States and Mexican
Generals^Tarcia
nut an end to the trouble at Parral and
persuaded the American troops to re
tire to the outskirts of that city where
they were followed by the hostile pop
'ulace. At this point the American col
dhel of the First regiment asked for a
conference, which was held at the vll
'pf of Santa Crux VUlegas, between
-rHhe American colpnel and the municipal
president. The American army officer
admitted be had entered the city with
out permission, but claimed he hadjsent
ah orderly from the town of Zaragosa,
requesting permission to enter, and
that, receiving no answer and the or
derly not returning, he went to lnvestl
sate.
"The *1*— officer expressed re
gret at what had happened and the
American troops and the constitution
allsts are working In harmony. The
"Aanerlcans will not move farther south
until the result of the Interchange of
not«« between Mexico and Washington
^p,ecome#
ta0,rn
H6PORT8 ON ATTACK
'Troops' Lad Cltlaaha In
.Traadhory at Parral.
•?, Washington, April 17.—State and war
11"'department
officials refused Vj comment
today on General Pershing's version of
the
Parral
flght, which was much dif­
ferent from that of General Carranza,
which was. given In support of his de
mand that American troops be with
drawn...
The Carransa soldiers not only at
tacked the little American force but fol
lowed tbem as they withdrew.
It was indicated It would be some
time before a r^ply would be sent to
General Carranxa. Secretary Lansing
planned to deal separately with the
Parral affair and not li\ part of the re
°arranza
note*
pARRAL ATTACK DESCRIBED.
Carranxa 8oldiers .Unruly, Lad in Aa
saulta on Tompkins* Men.
Antonio, April 17.—In was a
force
of Canaanza soldiers who engaged
the little detachment of American cav
alry at Parral Wednesday in a regular
ly organised action, according to a de
tailed report written by Major Frank
Tompkins and forwarded Sunday to
General Funston by General Pershing.
Forty of the Mexican soldiers, in
eluding one major, and one clviliani,
"'were killed by the retreating Amer-
Ivans.
The American casualties were two
'killed and six wounded, including
Major Tompkins. His wound was
slight.
tMajor Tompkins' account of the ac
tion was received at General Funston's
headquarters last night and served to
clarify General Pershing's report re
ceived Saturday, In which the identity
of the attacking force was unstated and
and in whlch he left the inference that
Jttte cavalry was under Col. W. C.
Brown.
N N or of Pa a
^,Th» Americans now are north and
tost of PSarral, reinforced by a squad
?. ron of the Tenth, under Major Toung,
accompanied by Colonel Brown and a
picked squadron under 'Major Robert
Howxe.
Fear for their safety has ITeen dls
pelled by this report and by troop dls
positions General Pershing, has ordered,
but the character of which General
iiFunston dldnot wIsh to reveg.1.
•t$(ajbr Tompkins' story of^ the fight
^ndieates lack of-control over the troops
tr th« commanding officer of the Par
ral garrison, General 'Doxano, and bit
-'tor antagonism by the public arid
-troops. The fighting took place outside
Pftrral and was 'continued over a route
of «i£ht miles to'Sahta Crux, northeast
Of Parral on the railroad.
Should Have Made Stand.
'General Funston said last night that
wltlls Ma]br Tompkins, undoubtedly
Acted in Accordance with his best judg
nwfttria retreating he regretted that he
had hot 'made a stand on account of
tlie ill Effect the story Will have on the
Mexican people^ who naturally will re
ftrd the Incident as an American de-1
feat. ,•
Major Tompkins arrived outsides»ur
[, itim on the forendon April 12, with
rSitb. troops. HI ahd K, of-the Thirteenth
»«ivalry.' "fledueed In numbei* the total
thaao two companies is appfpxlmate-
tbfU unarmed men went
|Wi^f^rw''^lM»ea'nt to bare -been wr
-.
.y jkdmlttad
cR hit small deUtchA
ly'alfettg tlteiAtll ihtoitho
SITttwts,na,f£noon
Oeneriti
*rw,
&C*, s^W?^X# its®!
Mexican Newspaper
J^uhliahea Vivid Story
of V. S. Rebellion
B1 Paso, Tex., April 17.— A new
war of secession by which T6xas,
Colorado, Nevada, Arizona, New
Mexico and California will dtciare
their Independence with a yiew of
annexing themselves with the re
public'of Mexico is the news that
El Democrats, a daily paper pub
lished In Chihuahua City, has just
announced. Jails are to be sup
pressed and the negroes and In
dians, Who. had been "subjugated
by Yankee gold," are to be lib
erated, if, the plot succeed.
Copies of El Democrata, a con
stitutionalist organ, with this ex
clusive piece of news spread over
its front page, have just been
bronght to El Paso.
The chief end of this conspiracy,
says El Democrata, was to free
Texas and Arizona and the rest
from the domination of, North
Americans, who are. regarded with
great hatred by the populace of
those states. Once independent
they would form a republic and
then negotiate" with Mexico to "the
end that there may thus be formed
a great nation, powerful and
strong."
There is also social reform in
vievi^—"the liberation of the op
pressed." They are' oppressed by
the "tyrannical yoke of American
gold, especially" the negroes, the
natives, the Mexican laboring 'ele
ment and in general all other na
tions."
1
Lozano, who received them most gra-
governmente are terminated. The dis- piously. Received.
patch follows: •*.
"General Ishmael Lorano, accompa- The civil authorities arrived ana
nled by
and Hernandez, joined in the courteous reception of
the major and his troops. The inci-
««3 uiujur a.n .us
dent appeared to be progressing with- tics, and particularly the employment
cussed with Major Tompkins the1
Followed by Crowds.
liu men lTiW a defensive position be-
hind a. railway "emb^nkmsii't outside,
troops who began In military fashion a
nnvi tho Authorities dis- Germany of long-range howitzers,
capable of
1
move out to die" designated .camp, when Verdun and here, as elsewhere on the
soldiers and civilians began to throw various fronts, chief reliance for re
stones and to shoot at the Americans, sistance was placed on an elaiborata
Realizing that the action was that of system of trenches. In no previous
a mob of civilians and of soldiers who battle were the losses so high as in
had gotten beyond the control of therr the fighting around Verdun. If esti
officers, Major Tompkins made no mates are correct nearly 400,000 men
stand, but retreated his men without
making resistance towards the city
limits.
punitive force has had it Impressed: artillery bombardment by way of
upon him that clashes with the troops preparation Jhe infantry attack _wa
of the defacto government must be launched, within the first ten days
avoided. Also It soon became apparent «»e
that the Mexicans' superiority In
num-j
bers made a Retreat from the positf
behind the embankment imperative.
1
Pursued Entire District
Senate Committee Racommonda Adop
tion of Madura
With Litaracy
A retreat then was begun that was, mont. These positions lie east of the armed,
ended only at Santa Cruz. The Mexl- Heuse and north, northeast and east'
cans pursued them almost the- entire: of Verdun.
Intervening eight,
Major Tompkins' Information that of the battle had developed west of
forty-one Mexicans had been killed was the Meuse. With batteries 100 yards
obtained from one who passed over the apart violent artillery attacks were
trail from Parral after thf» fight. made against Dead Mkn (Hill preceding
Major Tompkins and his two troops the long-expected offensive from the
reached Santa Cruz .before dark and northwest. Forges, near- Dead (Man
there met Colonel Brown and Major Hill, was captured early In the third
Young with a squadron of the Tenth.
Later In the night Major Howze ar
rived with his picked squadron, mak
ing the force'there about 500 men.
Another American Killed*
1 Major Howze 'also has led his men
thru a series of minor adventures. He
In the neighborhood of which he had
been in a few skirmishes with Villa's
men. He reported the loss of one nian
killed and one wounded. Details of the
skirmishes or of his operations had not
reached here last night.
REPORT IMMIGRATION B| LL.
Teat.
Washington, April 17.—The house
Immigration bill, with' the hard fought
literacy test, but with amendments to
the: section excluding political offend
ers, was-reported to tho senate today
with- recommendation for passage^
Lighter Papers Recommended.
Washington, Apf 11 17.—The depart
ment of agriculture-in-*»' "circular gIs
sued today recommended tne use of
lighter papers to relieve the present
stringency In paper making materials.
Many publisheri *nd many users of
wrapping papers have adopted this
plan, it is said.
In a single year the government thru
this plan effected a saving of 188,000.
Mason Ctty today to conduct hear
ing there on. the propoalt|pn whereby
the city of Mason iSty hopes to have
the Chicago A Noikhwestern railroad
build a viaduct over one ,erf, the city
streets.
Dr, IpWj^i
Winona, Mlttn., AprU 17.—Dr. IrWln
Sheftard, secretary of th« 4*a*ionai
'Education As#bciatlon from^slSW to
1812, died" her^ today of heafC dlaease.
He w«s.7S year« oldi 'He jsntered edu
cational 'Ntorkas liuperintendent of
sctooqto at
5frp6r iiat oi fi^jiiople
of fhrMctlull mtumr'b«Mt- thl* afterhoo» V»lfcTi. .,-
gmaflfc®*
VERDUN BATTLE
GREATEST EVER
Gigantic Struggle Enters
Upon Ninth Week of
Slaughter.
GREATEST EFFORT
OF PRESENT WAR
Modern Guns Compel Defenders of One
of Greatest Forts of Europ^ to De
pend Largely Upon Trench Warfare
Four Hundred Thousand Men
Killed, Wounded or Invalided in At
tack and Counter Attacks.
The most gigantic conflict in the
greatest fortresses «f Europe, a cor-
have been eliminated as fighting units.
Germans G^in Little.
The ground occupied by the Ger
mans, after fifty-six days of offensive
Shouting crowds followed them,: operations may be roughly calculated whatever price to Greece,
stones andT occasional shots lOO scruare miles. They Imve forced
fInil\monlreSihem^ but° without doing ^ck "the "French ^lrom"oitVyli^'p«rt- I prMent^ttitude^f Greece to the war
fell among them but without doing,
to thelr
defln,te „ne
ta£?f-
their flank a force of 300 Mexican Z1?1® Y. J?"
formal attack. William.
Major Tompkins was still averse to] The Germans are reported to have
»fnre°lverv"of-
force the
^imes, Beaumont, Cham­
retreatTrom'the wsitioni brettes. IMarmont. Cotellate, Ohanap-
distance of the Struggle at Fort Vaux.
miles, the Americans contenting them- Fighting fcontinued Intermittently *„_ Zf 4*309 tons gross.
.. In the northeast of Verdun during the' third
selves with a rear guarrd action,
running fight the Americans cared for I week, centering in the struggle for
their dead and wounded. Fort Vaux. Meanwhile, a new phase!
week.
On iMarch 31 the capture of Malan
court was accomplished atfter fierce
night attacks. On the./orty-slxtfli day
of the battle the Germans announced
1 the capture of Haucourt, a supporting,
point of the French left wing. Fr
had come from San Francisco Borja, it a large section of the French left appliance acts that all employes,
line.
-Lines Still Unbroken,
announced fha't wittiin two "hours
BetMnoourt was isolated. Trencfhes!
at no point was the 'French line broken
thru.
Toward the end of last week this at
tack subsided and tihere, qune another
pause, followed by a French counter
attack.
The failure of the Germans to break
front, however. Indicate that the at- Pa
•Dos iMoInes,' April lf-Meinbers of ling attacks In the Douaumont-Vaux jan3
"the Iowa railroad commission •frent to region, which Is declared to have thority to make laws regarding them
gained them some ground, the French *or
yesterday and last night held their in
fantry In check.
Riotous demonstration occurred In
Athens when ari attempt was made to
break up a meeting of former Premier
VenlseJos" supporters.
The British ship Glendoon and the
Norwegian- steamer -Harrovian hiive
been.sunk.
French Positions Bombar&Kl.
Paris,- April 17.—French positions"ia
Avocourt wood and on the front from
Dead Man Hlii to Cymieres were
bombarded- yesterday. Thert atr^* j^o
infantry attacks, the pfficlal re&ort'of
/H MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, MONDAY, APRIL 17,1916.
was calm except for artillery activity
at Haudremont wood.
Raids by'two French aerial squad
rons stationed on the* Salnnikl front
are reported from Athens. One squad
ron dropped bombs yesterday morn
lng on Bulgarian forces assembled at
iStrumpltsa station. The other attack
was made on "German .^positions at
Bogdantze. Both squadrons returned
undamaged.
CROWN PRINCE NEA« DEATH.
reaDOIldent of the Berne Bund,
respondent of the Berne
knocked down.
SOLDIERS DIE IN FLAME8.
Mutinous Troops Fire Barracks, Caus
ing Death of Twenty-Seven.
Berlin, April 17.—The Overseas News
Agency today made public the follow
ing:
"Russian soldiers at Nikolayevsk,
government of Samara, mutinied and
history of the world—the battle of set Are to the barracks..Twenty-seven
Verdun-has entered upon its- ninth Perished in the flames."
week. The enormous scale of the Ger-
British "Get Up Too Late."
man preparation and the execution of London,April 17.—Baron d' Estour
the attack, the unparalleled concen-! nelles de Constant, on departing
tration of artillery and the sustained
ferocity of the fighting, mark the bat-
Fr
T^ce
.L -JL, bers of the Frapoo-British interparlla-
mentary
tie as one of the greatest effete of the vlsitiag England, the past week. gave
ln
n~~rues.
tm- I not a German truce. My only cnti-i A Confirmatory Incident.
cjsm
restetance
1 alnnv a Imnt #rnvn 4Ka ir^ ii
when Tompkins led *}°ng a. circular fro«t from ^e edge archlsts
Ar?°"ne e^afd4
4113
rtafftScted the ad-
%antage the.rAmerlcans had taken but withstood the irtiock of silocesstve at
Wraltif^ii'rief time there appeared on
Before the battle opened the French 'More ammunition, more ammunition. General Pershing as to the identlflca-
Malor Tomnkins was nreparing to partly dismantled their forts around more ammunition.' The British people tion to be required. None will go for- I
lompKins was preparing w, ...
up too late.'
^lng nations lteslin thg^bellef of mon-
11
J¥ *oul6
gouQn*ard into tl^e Woevre.
forwa
the only
I
was
uifa^C^wn
wa8 reported
neuvllle and the fortified works of Norwegian ship Glendoon was sunk by the body brtfught to Juarez, where
Hardaumorit, IMeippe, Fromezzey, Ab- gre_ The lost British steamship scores of Americans who know him
aucourt and, most of all. Fort Douau-!
was the*
The Glendoon was of
new vessel, having been built in,1914.
INJURED WORKMEN
iXEii^Ctr 1 J. DI XVUL/liiu
Washington April 17 The
state or
cover
evacuation of tfhe Bethincourt salient, thru failure of interstate commerjie
Dliance laws.
it
waa
precedent-making decision, giUng safe
ty appliance laws a scope far greater
On Sunday of last week the Ger
mans undertook a general onslaught on'.than the federal employers liability
a thirteen-mile front The Germans jaw
The
wfta
near Dead Man Hill were carried but Plled
t0
the line led French correspondents to »ball, Tex., yard for repairs. It was
assert that the German offensive had! necessary for Rigsby to take the car
broken down. Dispatches, from the!over
employes engaged in intra-
Une
rs-
tacks are going (forward under a pre-t Justice Pitney, speaking for the en
conceived plan. tire cour^held that congress had taken
After temporarily assuming the as-
to
t*le
|^pK'a
to
French Shell Explodes Near Heir
German Throne.
Geneva, via Paris, Apt1* —The/re
port reaohed here today that the Ger
man crown prince had another escape
from death recently on' the Verdun
front. With members of his staff he
approached within range of a heavy
French gun, one of whose shells ex
ploded near the party. It is said sev
eral of the party were pounded slight
Hy, and that Colonel Mueller, cor-
was
with the other mem-
war to the Associated Press the following, q0
Verdun has been rated as one of the! impressions or his visit:
AnnAiiiaiAn ie fnat
"My conclusion is thAt Great Britain
ia great
nerstone in the defenses against Ger- tarism is to be punished.
many. The evolution of .military tac- 'are sure now not to be deprived of from Consul Garcia at El Paso saM I
th®lr
VILLA'S DEATH v:
STORY REVIVED
Mexicans Circulate Report
Body fias Been Found
and Disinterred.
NO CONFIRMATION
AS YET RECEIVED
Several Incidents Tend to Confirm Ru
mor Circulated Week Ago That
Bandit Leader Died of Wounda
Body to Be Brought to Juarez and
Interred Without Military Honora if
Rumor Provea Correct.
Washington, April 17.—War depart
ment officials announced that no late
dispatches brought any confirmation
of the finding of the body of Francisco
Villa.
As the hours pass without confirma
tion, Washington grows more doubtful.
eir liberties They will enjoy peace, be was seeking confirmation. I
v„
committee, which has been Chihuahua City by special train last!
nlght_ but Amerlcin Con8Ul
has not even
indeed and that Prussian mili-. The Mexican embassy here had no
Our children additional Information. Its last report
r' „„.f, ...
js that England has to hasten in It was reasserted today that should}
reducing the greatest forts, the fabrication of shells. She has the body be identified as that of Villa Markets and General.
question of camping sites, he and the have done much to change the char- made great progress but she has to the expedition would come out of .Mex- Bullish Crop News Lifts Wheat,
local offlicals decided on one just out- acier of the Verdun campaign as com- make more and more. ico at once. No instructions as yet corn Follows Wheat
side the city to which Major Tomp- pared with the earlier conceptions. "It is here that we want to say, have been sent to Consul Letcher or cattle Trade Weak
kins was directed
flne and braye bu(. they haye got ward until theae ofncials
Why Greece Is Divided. dispatch from Xaco saying that Gen-
Athens, April 17—Eliptherlios. Veni- eral Villa was last seen heading in the
niiKi—i nflNn many I
a victo:
theji^uiis&rltile a vie-}• tion -of
Rioting in Athens.
zelos, former premier in an article in direction of the place where reports kad been brought to Cusi. he would
today's Herald, says the existing gov- yesterday said he was burled. The dis- request General Obregon that the body
ernment's troubles are due to royalists patch' was taken by war department
working with politicians to nullify the officials to mean the reports of Villa's
revolution of 1909 and to deprive the death might be true.
people of effective self-government at
of the:
EL PASO LACKS CONFIRMATION.
Mexican Consul Garcis Feels Confident!
t&tV by tW.|^«itir»ild forcofGreece Villa's
back to constltutfonaHsm«wherein lies Francisco Borja and was being Piles and a few
day-
troops which had been in jQf the Venizelos party yesterday and Mexican telegraph lines lay silent thru- state department officials declared
with thj service there. After an unparalleled' that many followers of the former, out the early hours of the day. PLANS NEW REVOLUTION. the ambassador had not yet sub
premier were arrested. "I stlli feel reasonably certain that! |mitted a report of conversations ha
..._j General Villareal Directing Revolt! was reported to have had with offi-
I the message received Sunday over
Neutral Ship Sunk.I Mexican land lines that Villa's body
London. April 17.—The sinking of a had been found is correct," s-aid Andres'
neutral ship and a British steamship Garcia, Mexican tonsul here, today.
by Lloyds today. The I shall make every effort to have
Harrovian, which was un-may make an identification that will jcan"consul^at"Laredo.
be completely satisfactory to the
flble tQ any
&ardlng &n wnofflclal dispatch
fVl„
Consul Garcfa's information
Carranaa
mnea
first employers liability law
annulled years ago because it ap-
in interstate,
state, as well as those
commerce.
The decision was announced In the
suit of A. R. Rigsby, a brakeman of tho
Texas & Pacific railroad, Injured by a
defective ladder on a car marked "bad
order'' and left standing in the Mar-
to the shops for re-
itselfexclusive jurisdiction over!
gresslve in the Verdun battle, launch- safety appliance for interstate railroad* the reported finding of Villa's body.
that the state
wuld not have au-
benefit of state employers
The court held all that was necessary
was that the railroad foe engaged in In
terstate commerce for the federal law
to apply to all their acts regarding
safety.
The judgment of the federal court
in favor of (Rigsby for $11,000 was af
firmed. &:•
Approves Military Sentsnca,
Waahington, April 17.—Prealdinft
•\yiJson today approved the recom
mendation at the secretary of war im
posing a sentence of reprimand on
Lieutenant Goofier, of iihe kvlation
scrvioe, who recently was tried by
court martial Ip. Reference to the oon-J T*ve no fu
To the ot the fianDiego station^. tipm that Viti
by trkll south of Cusl.
Identification at the body at
of
*5 ^9
l.-vs*
in vr *.r/
^etch^0"*
Awarded the rumors of
8
death.
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS OP~"THE DAY
The Weather.
Bun rises April 18 at 6: IB sets at
6:42.
Iowa—fair in east, probably showers
and warmer in west and central portion
tonight Tuesday showers.
PAGE ONE.
Telegraphic News:
Villa Death Report Revived.
Capital and Border Without Confir
mation.
1,918 gross tons.' American people. I Gomez Ordered to Chihuahua. I t^official1'advices*1 to^the
... ua^nvi!.., wiu a comnarativeiv De facto government officials were I according to omciai aavices 10 uie
The Harrovian was a comparam eiy
information re-
1 ^onsui a wtis
To Withdraw If Villa Is Dead.
Interstate Business. official word from Washington that baseball, brother was
supreme
to ascertaln
line and fortifications could be tfken whether -engaged at the time in intra- of the locating of the body of Villa and his left-handed brother, Harry Cove!
under German fire, including Bethln-
count. This village t'hen became the W the body is still Interred at San hurl for Detroit. The Covelskies had
object point. The French admitted the
damage Francisco Borja It will likely be many
day8
two days later, sayiAg it was a pre- 'railroads to comply with the safety ap- made unless the Mexican government] SUPERVISE SISAL CROP,
meditated move to straighten out the
mnklnc decision, zivinff safe-
time is also likely to prove baffling,
**.ooo?uing to rts from AI^aIco City
Villa has besn dead .two w^ta. and
phjslcal ohanges ipay be such as tOjab]e
preclude
ight be accepted If made by respon
sible Mexicans who know Villa.
Operator Spreads Newa.
1A .ITAMIMMMCI MI«A 1»t TTI111«
A telegraphic dispatch was received
10:30
the body of Francisco Villa had
arrived there at that hour.
According to the operator, on last
Saturday, General Cavazqs and Col.
Carlos Carranxa, who were at Ctisl,
received Information that a Villa band
was operating In the neighborhood.
Two 'Carranxa officers with a body df
men hurriedly left Cusl and. engaged
the Vllllstas in a combat, In which
many of the Villa followers were killed
and wounded and some captured. A
Villa colonel was captured and begged
for his life, promising to lead his cap
tors to the grave of Villa.
Captive Lsada to Graven
The operator said that General Cav
azos and Colonel Carransa were taken
Jy the'prisoner to San Francisco
Borja, wfhefe the b6ds' is reported to
hsve beeti '-unearthed. The operator
Mexico Claims U. S. Halts Advance.
Ninth Week of Verdun Battle.
Gigantic Struggle Greateat In His
tory.
Note to Germany An Ultimatum.
PAGES TWO, THREE, FOUR.
Iowa News:
Guard Officers Hard Workers.
tiarst Takes Charge of Coccon Cam
paign.
Iowa Democrats Turn Progressive.
Dry and Good Roads Platform.
Two Boys Drowned in Peculiar Acci
dent.
Wounded Deputy Sheriff Dies.
Classy Relay Meet Scheduled.
PAGE FIVE.
Story:
The Turmoil.
Miscellaneous Matters.
PAGE SIX.
Editorial.
The Cost of Oraveled Roads.
Democrats Force a Showdown.
The Business Field.
Topics of the Times.
Iowa Opinion and Notes.
Villa's body was to have reached PAGES SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE, TEN, the evidence preaented by the sUt« do?
ELEVEN.
Newsi
E1
Six Main
Council Decides to Pave
Roads.
Extra Streets Also Added to Budget.
Ansons Beut Waterloo in Practice.
Stranger Found Dead at Lamoille.
Mrs. S. J. Tinker Dead.
Marahalltown Twenty-five Years Ago.
General and Brief City News.
PAGE TWELVE.
Hogs
slightly Lower
transmit
some report.
•Secretary Baker today received a' bandit's death.
A
hope of popular''government brought to Juarez was still lacking to-• were reported. many of these neutral Vessels
in Greece."
He did not know the date of the "ent
General" Gavlra said that as soon as'
he
be
been advised that the body
brought to Juarez.
No Military Funeral.
General Gavlra. said Villa would not
be given a military funeral but he
would be burled as bandit In the necessary.
Juarez potter's field.
That Villa Is Dead. resentative at Santa Barbara received I the Indictment -of Germany's
EM
I
orses.
Santa
Gabriel Gavira, commander of the some fifteen miles from Parral. Sev- The state department today ra
Juarez garrison, awaited information, eral large American mining properties
London, April 17.—Reuter's Athens from official sources that would dis- are located there but today's infbrma- Gerard, which it Is said, was dsroted
correspondent says several shots were pel any doubt over the reports of the tion does not indicate tihese have suf-
fired in the riot following the meeting finding of tty? bandit's body, but the fered in any way. German newspapers.
Paso' Tex- APril
officers .now In the vicinity Federal Trade Commission Directed to
,San jYanclsco Borja, which is thirty: Have Charge of Supervision.
bhls
WmOterln'
Against De Facto Government. I cials of the foreign office.
San Antonio, Tex., April 17.—General American Wounded by Auatrtana..
Villareal is attempting to start a new
revolution against the Oarranxa gov-
ernment, according to a report by
Consul General Beltraxn from the Mex-! woundca
onH tro.imi»inn from! The state department's information
in the cable and transmission
Mexico City.
BRiOTHERS OPPOSING HURLERS.
United States Supreme Court puts Villa's body was being brought io Covelskie Vs. Covelskie in Cleveland- was fired on without warning. Olson
Broad Interpretation on Safety Ap- Cuslhulriachlo, whence it was to bo Detroit Game Today. I was reported to be in a hospital at
pliance Law, Extending Its Opera- sent on a special train to Chihuahua Cleveland, April 17,.—For the first I Barcelona, suffering from shrapnel
tione to Intrastate Railroads Doing City.
April
I time in twenty years and the second
time In the history^ of major league
scheduled to
tlie troops would be withdrawn from ptlch against brother here today. Man- Berlin. April 17.—"No special qi.es
Mexico if Villa was dead will expedite ager Kohl announced that Stanley Hons at issue were discussed by Baron
court today so construed the efforts of the de facto government Covelskie, right hander, procured by von Burian, Austrian foreign minister.
the verity of the reports Cleveland from Portland, would
interstate commerce, may re- to make a satisfying identification. skie, picked by Manager Jennings to
not
before an identification can be I
regarded as a! accepts the Identification made b.v
aM*l/iA«a nmt In tKa
Washingtdfi, April 17.—Without dls
cussion the senate today adopted
Senntnr Ransdell's resolution dlrect
lng the federal trade commission to
BUpervlaa
P'Pe
fcher 'Information, other
was wounded on March
the distention of the avail-
sisal
yucatan.
pwltive Identification, ft wws, mUCh Importance to the grander
Intimated here that the identification ...
ihight be accepted if made by respon-
Btates
The
from
today with
San Ai
hl»
not ch"™e
General Gavlra talked
the telegraph operator at San Antonio, "lnl he started off again:
Mexico, and obtained further details
a ..
iSlkOwen $Madi43$"
/*.
Qne of two
J7.—General
from Gomez left Agua Prleta last night for
I Mexico City stating that General Obre- Colonia IMoreloa. Olson, whose father is bandmaster at
It is re.prrted that General Gomez
gon had announced that Villa's body
had been burled at San Francisco' has received orders from Minister °'i.\merioan who was aboard was Aner
Borja, and was now en route to Juarez, War Obregon to proceed with his gwensson, whose brother is foreman
RV f¥Tl it was believed there was some error 1 troops to Ohlhuahua. I
0f a
oppose
opposed each other before.
action is
which use binder twine.
Was Too Neutral.
by*G^ner^^avl^^commander^of'the Pftnt" the dub^ smoke-room. The
Juarezgarrison, from ^usihuiraehlc
at
o'clock this Wrnlng stating that!
A moment of silence fell on the occu-
etory cleared his^ throat-. N
n»outh and aelzed his
to ^t In a word edgeways.
war
began.
A loud murmur of protest checked
«tA
About the wai
"Shut up about the war!" yell«d the
whole room in chorus. 1
"Shut up yourselves*" roared back the
secretary. "As 1 was saying, about the
warped condition of the committee
room table, I shall be ready to receive
an^ small donations tor repair of same,
starting from tonight. Thlit will be all,
gentlemen!"—Philadelphia Rscord.
•?!"'. .•Practice For SurgssM. 5".
,T
A cold-blooded view of the war hos
pitals reveals the wonderful arid other
wise unobtainable, practice thfct young
surgeons, of whom many are Ameri
cans,., are obtaining. Th« .Voun* fel
lows who are going into.. profes
ston could not have chosen «. better
class tor their gradnation than 1914
*|jSlE
NUMBER 92
AN ULTIMATUM
Latest Demands on Get*
many Leave Kit One
Course ^Open*^
MUST LIVE UP'
TP.&OMISE8
-t/-
Failure to .aana 6*vwwm* «f
Relations WHNlsrlln Government
—Dsmanda Extant to Neutral Ves«
sela Not Carrying Amerloans Prsai
dent Revises Phraseology of Nat#,
and Document Will Go Tomorrow.
mm--
Washington, April 17.—Announce
ment was made today that President
Wilson had practically concluded the
consideration of the latest oomtnunl^j—
cation of the note to Germany
may go forward tonight or tomorrow,
The president spent Sunday examining
partment "'^581
It was reiterated that tho Suaaeat
oase would form only a link In tho
chain of evidence the United Stfktas
will present to Germany to show that
her promises have not been fulfilled.
The document was characterixod by
officials today as being very positive
in tone and they believe that only a
prompt acquiescence by Germany In
the position taken by the Unitst
States can prevent a break In diplo
matic relations.
Unofficial dispatches from Berlin
=b=s 11 indicating that the German govsrn-
18
read*
to
WM
8ald-
mining concern here with a r«i»- communication. He Intends to include
No casualties humanity and for
Barbara, a town of 16,000, Is going to or from the United States|
ce vr,» a
n"®®4 United
half way. It
Statees more than
win not
change' the course
of the American government decided
on at Friday's cabinet meeting.
On Grounds of MumanHar*
Before the communication gosa i»r
ward the president and SewAry
Lansing may confer again, but was
said today this was not absolutely
The president is yiow fin-
ishing the phraseology of the' proposed
csblcgram from AmiiMnnar
entire,iy to
editorial expressions from
Americana aboard tti#
Rugalan bark
imperator. from Gulf-
Mlss for MargelUes.
France, was
when
the vessel was fired
upon without warning by an Austrian
8tate
department today.
The
American injured was fcustav
Fort
warren, Boston. The other
Minneapolis furniture factory.
came from the American consul at
Haroelnnn.
wounds.
Spain. He said the Vessel
Deny Issue Was Discussed.
during his visit in Berlin,' says tho
Overseas News Agency. "All pending
matters were considered, as has been
done at regular intervals during the
war."
Baron von Burian left for Vienna
last night.
[A news agency dispatch from The
Hague on Saturday said that Chan
cellor Bethmann von Hollweg had dis
cussed with Baron von Burian the sub
marine issue between Germany and
the United States.]
GEORGE W. PECK 18 DEAD.
Humorist and Former Wisconsin Gov
ernor Expire* at 75.
Milwaukee, Wis., April 17.—George
W. Peck. 75 years old, former governor
of Wisconsin for two terms, and at one
time mayor of Milwaukee, died hero
Sunday after a short Illness.
Peck was one ot the three democrats
who since the admission of Wisconsin
to the Union In 1848, l.eld the position
of governor. He was governor from
1S90 to 1896. In M92 his opponent on
the republican ticket was former Unit
ed States Senator John C. Spooner^
whom he defeated.
Peck achieved natibnal fame a* a
writer of humorous tales, his best
known book being "Peck's Bad Boy.'*
^He was the publisher ot Peck's Sun.
KELLY 18 DENIED WRITCJI
Loses Fight Against Extradition in tltfr
prente Court.'
Washington. April 17.
Kelly, ac nortactor, wanted in Winni
peg In connection with frauds In th»,
construction of the parliament build
lng& today lost his fight &£alu*t 'ex*
tradtion In the supreme court,
high court affirmed the federal W»rtv
of Chicago, which refused lss^-'
or 1915 Those employed l» Frartce re- Kelly a wm of habeas cori^ Kenjr
142 a and 8} a day expense' 1* charged with obtaining tl.50jJ.Wfe'Wm
Btuney» tmlA preten»«s.
