;i:.'': ! ! J
J' THE LEDGER ! an advertising
medium that brings rcsnlts. Onr 4
! rate nrc consistent nlth clrcn. !
! Intlon. Honks open to inspection. f-
J.
j j j !
Ac' . : r 'f'A C
f
.j. v - n tt
Flr (ofay liml tomorrow !
J' warmer. !
j. .j j j j j ! l l l 4 I
'Public
laHaaaKWfcaflfc aaaaLV
jGfflr
fJMKlY KKP.VM.IOAt-Utl.
fiAItrr VBLHTLKDaKX-Utt
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, MONDAY, APRIL 17, 1010.
ONE COPY-ONE OSNT.
I'IIESHYTEMAIj MEETING.
Tho Womnns Presbytcrlal will hold
Its annual missionary meeting In thin
ulty ' nt tho Central Presbyterian
church on Tuesday and Wednesday.
A Roncrni Invitation Is cxtcnacu 10,
the popul.11 mcrtlns on Tuesday cvo-,
nlng, when tho program will consist of
music nnd an nddrrss by Mrs. C. E..
U'nlla .. flnnrrnlil K"v nml ntl lllfnr-
. mnl reception.
Mks Corn Ort of llollcvue, was tho
week-end Rucst of relatives here.
nRICK 8THEET WOUK STARTED.
Tho first work on tho now brick
streets was started on Button street
Monday morning by Contractors
Schoolflcld and Jones. A small crow
was put to work on this street, but
It w 111 be Increased In n row days,
There wcro almost 200 applications
for work when tho contractors arrived
on tho Job.
There will bo a meeting of the Wo
man's Club at tho I'ubllc Library on
Sutton street at 2:30 this afternoon.
Kir sch Flat Curtain Rods
They Don't Sag
Fit Any Window
Make possible any draping effect from plain
single cutains to the most elaborate overdrapc and
valance combinations. Sec them at
HENDRICKSON'S
Wall Paper Paints
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GOODYEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
RintCuU by tho No-Rlm-Cut feature
alowouL by the "On-Air" cure.
LooTrd by many rubber rivet.
Instcurity by I26 braided plnno wlret.
Puncture, and SVIddini by tho double
thick AU-Weather tread.
HOMES ARE MADE HAND.
SOME
with the aid of our mill work. With
Its uid one can have beautiful doors,
cabinets; pnnellngs, molding, stair
cases, and a hundred other things that
go Into tho making of a beautiful
home. Wo Invite you to Inspect our
products before your new building
plans are finished.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone 510.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. IT. Behan.,
B 3 H K E H S3
Your Speed the
Sharpies Speed
Every member of the family
g turns the separator crank at a
different rate. Your present
separator loses a lot of cream
when tho speed drops below
normal. This loss amounts to
g more than you realize.
No matter who turns the
crank, fast or slow,
" ' THE NEW
: SHARPLES
SUCTION-FEED
Separator gets attthenam allthe lime. Th bowl draws In Just enough
milk to Insure clean skimming. More cream means more money a new
profit without added expense.
mm The Sucdon-feed has many other Important advantages. The cream is
always of the exact thickness desired. The capacity Increases with the
m speed. The large supply can is but knee-high easy to fill.
The bowl has only three parts and no disks. There's nothing that's
heavy, clumsy or fussy to wash.
m We want you to see this superb new machine. Come In and let us
show you what It will do.
MIKE BROWN
m "Thi Bqnsrg HikI Man"
LOWEST PRICES OF THE YEAR
i cms good Corn only 25 cents 1 cans best Ljo Hominy only. 25 cents
cms best Ftuapkla oaly.,.,23 cents S cam good Tomatoes only... 23 cents:
These goods are worth more at wholesale cost, Ws do not want to carry
My oor,
MASON COUNTY'S
OLDEST RESIDENT
Mtf. Jnur Unll Quietly Cclclirnllnff Her
Mncly-Slxth lilrtiulny Toiiny
Almost To (ho Century Jlnrk.
Mrs. Jano Hall, widow of tho lato
Kemp Hall, Is cclobratlne, hor ninety
sixth birthday today at tho homo of hor
daughter, Mrs. Molllo Mitchell, on Knst
Second street.
Mrs. Hall was born on April 17,
1S20, In Lewis county. At tho ngo of
19 she camo to Maysvlllo to inako hor
home nnd has resided hero slnco that
time.
Sho has watched tho growth of
Maysvlllo through tho last seventy
seven years and few nro tho buildings
that havo not been erected slnco sho
M WWrnmrnrnM ' '
LLLLLLKkmmmmmMmmmmmmmmM
Mm. Jano Hull.
camo here, Many arc tho Interesting
stories she has told about tho early
history of tho town, and could nil the
Interesting things that sho lias wit
nesscd and been concorncd In be pub
llslied In a volume It would Indeed be
a large book and ninny of tho tales
would bo more interesting than the
best of fiction.
Mrs. Hall has failed rapidly In the.
last four years, her eyesight having
begun to dim at tho beginning of that
time. During the last year she has
been confined to her bed and her mind
Is not as clear ns It was only a few
years ago. She Is still able, however,
to rccognlzo some of the voices of
friends of bygone days and enjoys their
company. Sho Is also ablo to per
form n feat of memory that even a
number of tho most intelligent can
not do, and that Is to repeat the alplm
bet backward, with never a slip or a
falter. More rcmnrkable still Is tho
fact that sho hud an attack of grip
tho last winter and recovered.
Mrs. Molllo Mitchell of this city, and
Mr. William Hall of Huntington, W
Va are tho only surviving children
of this good old Christian lady. Be
sides being called mother, sho feels
proud of tho fact that she Is also called
grandmother nnd great-grandmother
by a largo number of children.
In Mrs. Hall s declining years her
daughter, Mrs. Mitchell, has dono all In
her power to inako lifo as bright and
pleasant ns Is possible and makes It
her especial duty to look after her wol
fare, leaving no wish or want unsat
Isfied.
During all her lifo Mrs. Hall has re
mained steadfast In tbo Christian faith,
being n member of tho local Uaptlst
church and a conslnnt attendant and
ludcfatiguablo worker ns long ns she
was ablo to get nbout. When tho hand
of the Master beckons her to como to
her heavenly homo He could well say:
"Well done, thou good and faithful
servant, thou hast been faithful over
fow things; I will mnko theo ruler
over many things."
PASSION WEEK
Services To Ho Held This Week At
tho Third Street X. E. Church
Will Ho Led Hy tho
Pastor.
This bolng Passion Week, special
services will bo hold at tho Third
Street M. B. church every night this
week, oxcept Saturday. These services
will begin at 7:15 and last until 8
o'clock. Tho different departments of
tho church will each have, separate
nights to bo represented nnd will work
for tho Interests of tholr respective
evenings. Tho nights set apart for
each department aro as follows: Mon
day night, Ladles' Aid Society; Tues
day night, Sunday school; Wednesday
night, Ep worth Lcaguo; Thursday
night, church una choir; Friday night,
official board.
Rev. J, M. Literal, tho pastor, will
conduct tho services and has chosen
as his topics for tho week tho follow
ing: Monday night. "Nothing Hut
Leaves;" Tuesday night, "Tho Tables
Turned;" Wednesday night, "Tho Un
recorded Happenings; Sllont, Hut
Thinking;" Thursday night, "Tho
Monument Erected," nnd Friday night,
Tho Crucifixion."
A sunrise prayer meeting will be
hold at the church on Easter Sunday
morning at o o clock and will bo led
by Miss Virginia Mao Hurd. The other
services for Easter day will be an
nounced later.
HKOULAHS GETTING HEADY.
.11 JS..U.
Rnun iqciie
Tho Mnysvlllo Hcgulars met nt UUI1U lUUUa.
Lcaguo Hark Sunday afternoon for
their first practlco of tho season. Tho W 200,000 To lie Volcil On In Matnn
nlnvora onlovcrl a enml wnrlrnnl nml 1 fntiniv Admit .limn 1 I'.nn.
nro feeling so good that they havo, mlssloners To Havo Charge
challenged tho local Ohio Stato of the .Money.
caguers ror a gamo noxt Hundny aft
ernoon, manager amitn says that tho
A. ... -...I 1 . l . . i .
viiiuuii. muimiiur ouiuu guys Mini mo I n- uiuiiuBiasiio meeting oi uio
team Is forttinntn In lmvlni- annum, . IlnnMn rVimmlanlnn nml ihn A.lvlonru
tho services of Lcsllo Bratton us a Board hold at tho City Council Cham-
pltchor for tho coming season. Hrnt- 'hcr Saturday afternoon It was decided
linn I. H .t. IT.. I . - , ... . 1 - . . I ,..
iu" " khi 111 uiu uiiuuu oiaics army w num ituuiuur ciccuou in Aiasoii
for tho last thrco years and has only county about Juno 24 to seo whether
recently returned to this city. Ho Is or not a $200,000 bond issuo for tho
said to havo n world of speed nnd uj Improvement of roads and turnpikes
S Dinger Bros.,
good assortment of curves nnd is ex
pected to becomo n valuable addition
ti tho team.
HOWLING
I'HOl'EKTY
I'lMlAY.
SOLD SAT.
.Master Commissioner A. n Rntanr
conducted tho salo of tho estate of
Laura Dowllnir. ilprennpt g.ntnninv
afternoon. Mr. M. F. Coughlln pur
chased tho East Seennrt
erty for $1,351, L. T. Gaolko got the
front Btrcct
riuiu mruei jiropcny lor fbib, nnu , " "" uimti
Mrs. Frank Spencer bought the butlnl I)nBscd as almost every good
lot In tho Mnysvlllo cemetery nt I20.inn'1 Property owner wants
In tho Mnysvlllo cemetery nt $20.
GRAND JURY
Makes Final Heport For Murch Term
-.-M'u'iiiccn i nutriments He
turned No Hoof lowers
Indicted.
COIlld bo nut thrnnch.
As was stated several days ago tho
Fiscal Court turned the matter over
to tho Hoad Commission, composed of
Six men Whn U'lll onrh rncnlvn S.I n
day for taking caro of tho funds nnd
supervise tne worn or building and im-
Iirovlnu tho roadn. Thr-an ihimi. in
turn, will bo guided by an Advisory
Hoard composed of ono man from each
precinct In tho county who will give
tholr Borvlces free of charge.
With this plan thero should bo no
troublo In having tho bond issuo
citizen
better
roads, but a number havo been against
mo issue uecnuso of the fact that they
thought the Fiscal Court was not the
proper body to supervise tho work nnd
hnndlo tho funds.
House Cleaning Wants
We can fiil your order for
Ammonia Scrub Brushes Dutch Clcansen
Brooms Buckets
Sal Soda Sapolio Mops
Photic us your wants
m... m mm,m,w a, i i i 1 1
102 HT. Bpnnd St.
FhanE 2D.
Our now Spring wallpapers aro
ready for your Inspection. Come In.
CHANG & SHAF12U.
Our price this week for butterfat,
17 conts, Maysville.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
GET IT!
OXY-TOMIC
3
S
the Rnrw n RANPR
A Rennncide for the stomach, liver and bowels. The big
APPUTITK PRODUCER. 50c and $1 00. Get away from that
"tired feeling."
M. F. WIUJAMS nRIIG COMPANY
H QUICK SERVICE. PHONE 91.
.MM MM MM MM M M M ,M M I M M
The MrtFnn fvmntv rmiwt iiiru ..
, , . .. . . o
isilCll Ilieir WorK ror ttin ni-CRnnt fnriri
of court. Following Is their rnnnrt :
The Krailil turv ninlrpn
thnt It has examined about sovontv-
fivo witnesses nnd returned sovonteon
indictments. It
flees nnd Jail and find them well kept
nnu in goou onrbr. niia having no fur-
inur uusiness, asKs to ho excused.
II. A. CAim, Foreman.
Tile follOWlnil Indlctmolltn urnrn rn.
turned:
Horaco Jackson, knn Wlnnlv rnnniv-
ing stolen goods, $300.
E. E. Hayes, making, uttering nnd
passing check on bank In which he
had no funds, ball $300.
Harry Tucker, uttorlni. n tnr.,,
check, ball $500.
Howard SL Cl.llr. irrnnri
- F n - ..!. .... Vl.I ,
bail $500.
S. I. Lyons. L. T. Klmnami nn.l a
S. Mussclinan. ilrlvlni-
on the highways, etc., ball $300 each.
Eneas Williams, house burning, ball
$1,500.
Barry Hcnakcr, same, $2,500.
(Jeorgo Brewer, nnnrnnrfntinn-
sonal property to his own uso whllo
11 possession or n common carrier for
transportation and delivery.
i nomas nrowcr, same, ball $300.
Allen Fletcher, same, ball $300.
Thomas Grecnrv. cnilnrinn
$300.
Them Worn n ln cAvncol p n a
.-w OLXtCl III
(lictmcntfl.
Dr. J. V I'nrlnr unulnr nt 1tn
Pirat Baptist church at LoxinRton, will l
prcacn the dedicatory sermon incident' 1
Mr. Frank Martin of Manchester,
was visiting friends hero Saturday,
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLOTHES
The measure of a man's enjoyment of his en
vironment and associations is determined by his
own self-respect.
"HECHINGERS" Smart Clothes meet the ut
most requirements.
Suits $15 to $30.
KCEIOKEIKTG-EJK, &. CO.
II
I
I:
I AMWW.ii..A..l ,QAwftMWtyWwfr..
THE SPRING CRETONNES
All sorts of patterns shadow styles, chintz patterns, paneled and trellis designs, formal striped pat
terns with medalions set in at intervals, etc. Special values at 25c yard. Especially popular with many is
a new American Cretonne which almost exactly duplicates the pattern of an imported chintz. Another
handsome Cretonne is a chintz pattern of pink and blue flowers, its Delft and old rose shades being espec
ially liked by many customers. You are cordially invited to see the special display of curtains and draper
ies now being held on our second floor.
OCEAN AND FRENCH SERGE
We will be pleased to have an opportunity to demonstrate the value of these exceptional goods to you.
They are fully guaranteed for quality, finish and color, and are priced to meet the needs of all. Width is
varied according to price. 50c to $1.50 yard.
A WHIRL-AWAY OF TAILORED SUITS
Styles that are winsome, charming and different. No wonder we speak of a whirl away for these
smart suits hardly linger long enough to get into print. Values that areas obvious as sunshine. Buy to
day. Prices $15 to $35.
1BSS
ffimJlmMmm1flmmJlwJt
Tho Young People's Missionary So-
cloty of the Second M. E. church.
South, will hold its regular meeting
tonight nt tho church at 7 o'clock.
Si 1016 i
Mr. David Watson, son of Mr. and Dr Charles Swisher of Cincinnati, Or. Thompson of Brazil, gives an
Mrs. Robert Wntson, Is seriously 111 Is spending tho day with his brother, J address nt tho Central Presbyterian
with typhoid fever nt tho Hnyswood Walter and family, at their homo on 'church on Tuesday afternoon nt 2;30.
Hospital. West Fourth street. 'Tho public cordially Invited.
FIKST KENTUCKY DELEGATES TO
AIUUVE.
Washington, April 17. Tho lifBt of
Kentucky's delegates to tho annual
national convention of tho Daughters
of tho Amorlcan Involution, to open
noro today, havo arrived. They nro
Mrs. Luclen Maltby and Miss Mary
rago Maltby, who llvo near Maysvlllo.
Mr, and Mrs. John W. Power re
turned homo Friday night from a
bridal trip in tho cast.
Installed
proTetl Carpet and Hug cleaning uu
cklae on (lie market. Telephone us
w Mill clean aud dclher your
chi sesi rasps in oaiy..,.) cents 3 raas good Tomatoes only... 25 cent proTed Carpet and Itug cleaning urn-
mmm grtr L n nm ciwu huu ucuier youriB
Carpets on short notice.
t
FOR THE M. H. S. GIRLS
The new regulation dresses are becoming Immensely popular, as they arc not only smart and trim in appearance, but reflect a 9
&Z a degrce f scno0' sPirit lliat appeals to the normal girl student. w
iiicsc gdiiiitiua mil uc uau in yuui otuuui uuiuis, wuii utautu wiiuiuu uu aitcvt. uit td(b uit aitiiiiiLU, bu yuu may ciuuruiucr
m them with your class number. J
fAt Eton, Harrow, Oxford and other English schools, students wear the colors, caps and clothes of their particular hall. It is an.
idea that American girls have just begun to adopt. 2
Come In and ask to see the three sample regulation garments we are now displaying. They are priced no higher than regular J
garments, and can be had with your class insignia and cap as required. ?
We are local distributors for the very latest novelties a regulation dress for girls who attend college, high school or grammer M
school.
These clever student-fracks can only be seen in this store.
ALL SIZES $4.98
