BARRE DAILY TIMES
THE
VOL. XX NO. 28.
HAHKE, VERMONT, MONDAY, APRIL 17, 1010.
PJUCK, ONE CENT.
i
FRENCH CLAIM
SMALL GAIN
AT VERDUN
They Launched an Offensive
for a Short Time in the
Douaumont-Vaux Region,
but Yesterday and Last
Night They Held Their
Infantry in Check
GERMANY ALSO HOLDS
HER INFANTRY BACK
the British admiralty on the h ir raid on
Constantinople, reads tia follow:
"On Friday night three of our naval
aeroplanes carried out a raid on Constat!
t i ti !. Bombs were dropped on the
Ziitunlik powder factory and aeroplane,
hangers. Another naval aeroplane visit
eil Adrianople and dropped bombs on tin
railway Ntatioii. All returned safely.
"The flight to Constantinople and bach
measured :too mile. Although lino
weather prevailed at the start an ad
verse condition supervened with wind,
rain ami tlmnder storms."
TURKEY ADMITS
SEA OUTRAGE
Rome Claims Heavy En
gagements with Austrian
Troops, but Vienna Claims
That Only Small Engage
ments. Have Taken Place
with No Results
After temporarily assuming ' the ag
gressive in the Verdun battle, launching
attacks in the Douaumont-Vaux region,
which was declared to have gained them
some ground, the French yesterday and
last night held their infantry in check;
nor was there any move by the German
infantry arm, b.ut apparently a new move
ment of some importance is preparing to
the west of the Meuse, where heavy bom
bardments are in progress.
Although Rome has reported heavy
fighting on the Austro-Italian front, with
successes for the Italians, the current
headquarters statement from Vienna
mentions only small engagements and
records no changes in territory in consequence.
t Kiotous demonstrations occurred in
Athens when an attempt was made to
break up a meeting of adherents of for
mer Premier Venizelos, a supporter of the
entente cause. One report says that sev
eral shots were fired and a number of the
former premier's followers were arrested.
But Tries to Justify Sinking of the Rus
sian Hospital Ship Portugal By
Belief That the Ship Was
a Transport.
Bcrliji. April 17, by wireless to Tuck-
Piton. Announcement is niado by the
Turkish government that the Hussian
osnital nhin Portiiiml. sunk in the UlacK
sea last month, was torpedoed by a Turk
ish submarine. The Ktateiiient was giv-
11 out yesterday by the Over-Seas news
agency as follows:
"The Turkish government publishes the
the following report of the commander of
the Turkish submarine which sank the
steamship Portugal:
"The ship was sighted on the night nf
March L'O-.'JO. It was steering toward a,
binding place. When daybreak came it
was iisceitained that the ship was laden
heavily and that it was towing several
heavily loaded punts with numerous oc
cupants. The commander and other offi
cers of the submarine were justified in
believing the ship was a transport which
was on the way to bind troops and sup
plies. The ship was painted gray with
a small red line and new me Russian
merchant Hag. Xo Bed Crows Hag was
living and the name of the ship was in
visible.
"The first torpedo did not hit. After
the explosion of the second torpedo,
which struck below the bridge, a violent
explosion occurred w ithin the ship. This
explosion tiniioiiliteifly was due to large
iuantities of explosives stored in the
ship. Immediately after this a destroy
er attacked the submarine.
"The Hussiiin allirmation that the ship
was struck by two torpedoes is untrue.
The Turkish government regrets if per
sons exclusively in the lied Cross service
perished, but the responsibility rest on
the Russian government, which trans
ported these persons on a vessel which
was lxing used for war purposes against
the Turks.
"Provisions of the conventions adopted
at The Hague stipulate that hospital
ships nmt lie painted white with a green
or red stripe one and one-half meters
long and also must flv the Hed Cross
dag."
NO PROOF
OF VILLA
DEATH
War Department at Wash
ington Has Not Received
Confirmation of a Report
Which Reached El Paso
Yesterday That the Bandit
Chief Died of Wounds
EARLY DESPATCHES
REVEALED NOTHING
The Evidence from Mexican
Sources Thus Far Is Chief
ly Circumstantial and Is
Not Given Full Reliance
by American Officials
Washington, D. C, April 17. As the
hours passed to-day without confirma
tion of the story of (the finding of the
body of Francisco Villa, Washington
grew more doubtful. Villa's body was to
have reached Chihuahua by special train
some time last night, but American Con
sul Letcher has not even forwarded the
rumors as to Villa's death, which must
be circulating there.
The Mexican embassy here has no ad
ditional information. The last report
from Consul Garcia at 1 Paso said he
was seeking confirmation.
State and war department officials re
fused to comment to-day on Pershing's
report of the Parral fight, which was
l. a : n . r il. : a
The Portugal had 273 persons on u"lc'cl "" l"c
board of whom 115 were drowned. The mitted by Carranza. The American re
linssian government sent to all neutral port shows that Carranza troops not only
ovcrnments a note protesting against , joined : the tUck the American de-
by General Pershing1 and ether American
officers, if be bad continued south as
was assumed he must bv this time have
reached either Torreon or Durango City
in which event some news of bis move
merits would almost positively have be
come known.
Only one message wag received in Juar
rr. yesterday giving any details of thn
supposed finding or Villas body. 'J Ins
message whs unofficial Mini was sent to a
titivate individual. According to it, Vil
la's death and burial were revealed bv A
former colonel of the bandit Ira ml who
had been captured anil was under sen
fence of death. This colonel offered to
show his iptor ilia a grave in return
for bis life. He led a detachment of
Carranza soldiers under the corn ma ml of
Colonel Cava.os to Nan Francisco Boria
a small town MO miles south of Cusihi-
riachic, with which it is connected by i
vagup and deserted trail. Near this lone
ly spot the Carranr.a soldiers are said to
hnve exhumed the body ot. the bandit,
MAJOR TOMPKINS
SLIGHTLY HURT
His Small Force of Americans FougW a
Defensive Battle 'Again Carranza
Troops at Parral and Killed
41 Mexicans.
FRENCH POSITIONS
BOMBARDED
ON SUNDAY
From Dead Man's Hill to Cuiuieres the
German Guns Boomed, But There
Were No Infantry Attacks.
Paris, April' 17. French positions in
Avocourt wood and on the front from
Dead Mail's Hill to Cumieres were bom
barded yesterday. There were no infan
try attacks, this afternoon's official re
port says. To the ca-t of the Meuse the.
night was calm except lor artillery activ
ity at Haudrcmont wood.
The oflicial statement last night
claimed the capture of some German
trenches and prisoners south of Douau
mont. The statement reads as follows:
"The bombardment continued last
night on the left bank of the Meuse in
the sector between Avocourt and Caur
ettes wood. On the right, bank we de
livered a spirited attack toward the end
of yesterday ugain-t German positions
south of Douaumoiit. This elfort. which
was completely successful, made it pos
sible for us to occupy certain elements
ol the enemy s trenches and capture IM
men, of whom two were oflicers.
"In the Wocvre our first line positions
were bombarded intermittent ly."
A supplementary statement is-ued in
Paris lust night says:
"(In the left bank of the Meuse the
enemy violently bombarded our positions
in the Avocourt wood and Hill ;104.
"On the right bank both artilleries
were active in the rcgjoii of pouanmont
and in the W'oevre ittlie sector of Moul
ainville, Haudimont and la-s Kpargos."
the torpedoing of the hospital ship. It
was asserted the Portugal bore ail the
distinctive signs prescribed by the spe
cial agreement signed at The Hague in
1!)U8.
The Turkish government at first dis
claimed responsibility for the sinking of
the Portugal.
WAR MUST END IN VERDUN.
Kaiser is Reported to Have Dcclated Re
cently. Paris, April 17. A semi-official note
issued yesterday reviews the recent
operation about Verdun and gives an
Uchment but followed them for several
miles as they withdrew to avoid a clash.
The majority of the Mexicans killed were
reported by Pershing to have been Car
ranza soldiers, one of them an officer.
Officials reasserted to-day that should
the body be identified as that of Villa
the expedition would come out of Mexico
at once.
FRENCH REPULSED.
German Official Report Says Offensive
Was Put Down.
Pierlin, April 17.--The oilhial bulletin
given out yesterday by the loi'uian war
office says the attacks of the French
near Douaumoiit were repulsed. The
bulletin reads:
"W estern Front On both sides of I -a
llnssee canal there was increasing ac
tivity on the part of the artillery, to
gether with v igorous . mining operations.
A I'.riti-h position about ISO meters long,
ill the region of erne lie-., was wrecked
bv our mining opera I ion-.
"F.a-t of
there h:i
oriter ot the day ot tumoral retain, com
manding; at Verdun, in praise of the re
sistance of the French troops to the re
cent offensive of the Germans. The note
concludes:
"The emperor some days ago reviewed
one of the divisions engaged in the re
gion between Pouuumont and' Vaux and
it was there that lit) said:
"'The war of 1870 was decided at
Paris. The present war must end at
Verdun."
General Petain's order is as follows:
"Tim fHh of April is a glorious day for
our arms. The furious assaults of the
soldiers of the crown prince have been
everywhere broken. Infantrymen, artil
lerymen, sappers and aviators of the 11th
army were rivals in heroism. Honor to
all.
"The Germans without doubt will at
tack again. lat everyone work and
watch to obtain the same success as
yesterday. Have courage. We will get
them."
Kl liso, April 17. A dispatch was re
ceived by (eneral t,avira, commander ot
the Juarez garrison, from Cusihuiraehie
at 10:30 this morning, stating that t lie
ACID FUMES KILLED
BURLINGTON MAN
His Helper Was Also Overcome, But Re
covered They Were Charging Bat
teries in Small Electric Light
Plant.
I'.iirlington. April 17. Frank L Ilod-
luTe. a will known electrician of this city
is dead as the result of inhaling gaseous
fumes while at wink in an electric light
plant at the summer home of George i.
Wright of Kansas City, located at the
northernmost point oi Grand 1-de. siins
I'.ushcy of (.rand lsle Bodlilie's assistant,
who was found unconscious beside hiiii,
will live. The nun were engaged in re
rbarging the storage hattcriA of the
fn a
the .lcu-e (Verdun front i light plant which is located
Sj'lllieil iiiiiiii illon; 1 III 111 1 1'l 111 11111 ll"eit rtl.ic. Ii'liliir t
front bi-tore Fort Do;iaiiitiont. as I u jand Bm-hey went to work at - o'clmk
a- the au l.avine. 1 lie em niv. whnliiday attinoon. It was jn-i c-ary PT
ii dv .lie cd to t'.e attack w it h heavy force-, 1 1 he men to work all ni-jiit alter the ga-o-
iitier pt.'ii!"il preparation nv tue arid-lime engine operating me nvimmo inai
h-i'v. a n-piil-cii with sanguinary b-s-
!.a. ......I 1.A 1...;.. n .i-.,.i.l
(were di'-overi(l iini-on-s ions at (i:3'l Sal-
tplay morning.
II. Ip a in-.t.int ly siimmone 1 and ev
erything po-sible was done for the men.
liu-hcy renvered innscioii-.ne-s alxmt Z
I'clock !-aturday afternoon but K'h!hiti-fievi-r
lame out of the stupor. He died
Constantinople. April 17. via London. at 7 oYbk lt evening.
Two ho-tih; aeroplane have (! it over .In-t l a' kille.l L'oillitfe and alfn t-
op-tan" iiiople. iropping ImiiiiI, on vil- p.J l:uhy will nt l known until n
laes maiby. the war oilier annoiiii.-c.l lutor-v on l:!li!'e-. Iw'v i- ii lorpx-1
but tv damage was d me. The i by Pr. I. H. Stone of the Mate lalsra-
f. .!!.,
HOVERED OVER CONSTANTINOPLE.
To Hostile Aeroplanes Dropped Bomb.i,
But Did No Damage.
bodv of Villa bad not arrived there at
that hour. The body was said to be in
charge of Carranza. troops.
For more than a week reports that
Villa had died from wounds have been
current Inith here and in Juarez. Yes
terday's accounts were the most circum
tantial and apparently reliable yet re
ceived. They were accepted with reserve
by American officials, including Oneral
George Bell, but the Mexican officials ex
pressed confidence in their reliability
The messages, in the order in which they
were received, were as follows:
The dispatcher of the' Mexican North
western railroad at .lu-aren reported to
Oeneral Gavira, Carranza commander at
Juarez, that he had heard a conversation
over the telegraph wires to the effect
that Villa's Isxly was in the hands of the
Carranza troops.
General Gavira notified Consul Andres
Garcia here, who rushed nn-ssages to the
telegraph operators at Madera and Cus
huiriachie asking for continuation.
The Madera and Cuhuiraii hie opera
tors answered, confirming the report and
stating the body was being taken to Chi
huahua. The telegraph operator at San Anto
nio, AO miles west of Chihuahua, tele
graphed Consul Garcia that Villa's body
was in possession of Colonel Carlo (Vr
ranza. nephew of General Carranza, who
was taking it m a special tram to (lii-
hualiua.
In reply to these messages, telegrams
were sent to the Carranza generals in the
field and to officials in Mexico City. Chi
huahita and other points asking contirma-,
tion but no answers lmve yet been re
ceived. Apart from the telegrams sent here
there ire some known facts which have
been pointed out by Mexican officials as
lending strong support to the truth of
the report that the bandit chief's career
has Is-en closed by death.
These facts are: That Villa has been
II suffering for more than a vear from a
U'sililie i virulent form of blood poisoning. He
was treated for this disease while in
Juarez by Ir. W. L. Brown, one of the
h-t known physicians in Kl Pao.
Pr. Brown states that the condition of
the bandit was such that the condition of
wound would be fatal in 10 davs unless
treated promptly and with the h"st medi
cal skill and care. Kven under mot
favorable condition sm-h a v.mni would
In- of the graves! character.
It i certain that if Villa mas wounded
he could not have commanded anything
but the movt primitive treatment.
Another message from Chihiwhua City
revived here yctrrday stating that riot
iiur had broken out there Ba regarded
San Antonio, Tex., April 17. It was a
force of Carranza soldiers ft ho engaged
the little detachment of American caval
ry at Parral Wednesday in a regularly
organized action, according to detailed
reports written by Major Frank Tomp
kins and forwarded to General Funstun
by (.'eneral Pershing. I
Forty of the Mexican soldiers, includ
ing one major, and one civilian, were
killed by the retreating Americans. The
American casualties were two killed and
six wounded, inclnuding Major Tomp
kins. His wound was slight.
Major jompkins entered Parral upon
the invitation of bii oflicer of the Parral
garrison. He stated that the olbcer met
him ten miles from Parral, introduced
himselt and urged him to accept the hos
pitality of the military and civil author
ities. This fact, coupled with Major
Tompkins' report of the subsequent at
tack, caused officers here to express the
opinion that he and Ins men had I'cn
ehberatelv led into a trap, although
perhaps not with the knowledge of Gen
eral Ixizano, commanding officer.
Major Tompkins was preparing to
move out to the designated camp when
soldier and civilians began to throw
stones and to shoot at the Americans.
Realizing that the action was that of a
mob of civilians and of soldiers who had
gotten beyond the control of their offi
cers, Major Tompkins made no stand, but
retired his men without making resist
ance towards the city limits. Shouting
crowds followed them, while stones and
occasional shots fell among them but
w ithout doing great damage.
It vvas afternoon when Major Tomp
kins led his men into a defensive posi
tion behind a rail c:ubiikkiiieut out
side the town. The mob respected the
advantage the Americans had taken but
within a brief time there appeared on
their flanks a force of 300 Mexican
troops who began in military fashion
a formal attack.
Major Tompkins was still averse to i
fighting in anything but a defensive
manner against this force. Also it soon
became apparent that the Mexican su
periority in numbers niade a retreat
from the position behind the embank
ment imperative.
A retreat was begun that was ended
only at .Santa Cruz. The Mexicans pur
sued them almost the entire distance of
the intervening eight miles, the Ameri
cans contenting themselves with a rear
guard action.
In the running fight the Americans
cared for their dead and wounded.
Major Tompkins' information that 41
Mexicans had been killed wag secured
from one who passed over the trail from
Parral after the fight.
A GRIEVANCE
WITH AUSTRIA
An American Sailor Was In
jured on the Russian
Bark Imperator
OFFICIAL ADVICES
REPORT THE CASE
Austrian Submarine Said to
Have Fired Without
Warning
Washington, D. C, April 17. One of
the two American aboard the Russian
bark Imperator, bound from Gulfport,
Mississippi, for Marseilles, was wounded
when the vessel was fired upon without
warning by an Austrian submarine off
the Oulumbredo islands, according to ofli
cial advices to the slat department today.
The American injured was Gustav Ol
son, whose father is bandmaster at fort
Warren, Boston harbor. The other Amer
ican aboard was Aner Swennson of Minneapolis.
The state department's information
came from the American consul at Bar
celona, Spain, who said that the ship was
fired upon without warning on April 11.
Three shots were fired, one taking effec t.
The vessel was set afire by the subma
rine. Olson was reported to be in the
Barcelona hospital suffering; from shrap
nel wounds.
LETTER TO GERMANY
NEARLY COMPLETED
BY PRES. WILSON
HIS FIRST SERMON IN BARRE.
Rev. B. C. Lipsky Occupied Hedding Pul
pit as Pastor,
liev. Bailey G. Lipsky, who was recent
ly assigned to the pastorate of the lied
ding M. K. church in this citv, preached
his first sermon at the morning service
yesterday. Mr. Lip-lV is a young man
full nf enthusiasm, as is evident from bis
manner in the pulpit, and a fluent speak
The Communication is Likely to Be Sent
from Washington to Berlin Late
To-night or To-moirow.
Washington, D. C, April 17. An
nouncement was made at the White
House to-day that President. Wilson had
virtually completed consideration of his
forthcoming communication to Germany
and it was indicated that it probably will
go forward to Berlin late to-day or to
morrow. President Wilson, 'it was said, had been
steadily engaged on the note for two
days, remaining away from church yes
terday and working practically all the
day. The document was characterized
by officials to-day as very positive in
tone and they bolieve that only prompt
acquiescence by Germany in the position
taken bv the United States can prevent
a break in diplomatic relations.
Unofficial dispatches from Berlin indi
eating that the German government was
ready to meet the tinted States more
than half way, it was said, will not
change the course of the American gov
ernment decided on at Friday's cabinet
meeting.
His text yesterday was from the third
chapter of Paul's epistle to the Galatians,
the first verse. "Oh foolish Galatians.
who hath bewitched you, that ye should
not oliev the truth, before whose eves
Jesus Christ has lieen evidrLlv set forth,
crucified among you! Ihe words at
first, as the preacher suggested, mean
little until we consider the circumstance
which caused Paul to write them. He, in
spired bv the Christ, had taught the peo
ple according to his belief but in bis ab
sence they had allowed themselves to be
led back to their old customs bv other
priests and were losing sight of Him in
consideration of themselves. Paul, dis
appointed that they should be so easily
led from a faith which had been so con-
lusively and emphatically proven bv the
crucifixion of the Saviour, eluded them in
the words just given.
In California, said Mr. Lipskv, I
once took a journey through the moun
tains. It was a long, steep climb for the
railroad train to undertake and it took
the enginf a long time to reach the pla
teau at the top of the mountain. At last
it was1 reached, however, and in the dis
tance was revealed the snow-white top of
Mount Shasta. Isolated and maiestic it
tood there, surpassing in grandeur all
the mountains around until they seemed
but a clump of foothills beneath it." It
is the same with Christ when we try to
contrast him with other men. He stands
out from all the rest, as possessing some
thing which they did not have. Abra
ham, Moses and Amos were all great
teachers but they all had their weak
nesses. It is Jesus alone who is the
true demonstration of God's love. Jesus
is the wonderful character that causes all
others to sink into the shadows. He
stands placarded before the world and
emblazoned in the minds of men."
It is through Christ that we have come
to realize that there ran be uo castes in
the world, that one man beforo God is as
good as another. It is He who brings
man to His own level, the level of hu
manity, and reveals his kinship with
('Sod. It is He who has taught us that
no matter what have been our sins and
failures in the past, we still have in our
hearts the ability to find God. "If we
keep our eyes on Him we shall find di
viner powers dynamic in our heart which
are lifting us to the level of God."
Paul teaches that whosoever looks to
himself instead of to Christ has taken
from his soul the power for redemption;
but there is no conflict but what we can
win if we keep the love of Christ warm
in our souls and our eyes ever on Him.
"Love is the fulfillment of all law, for
with the love of Christ in our hearts we
cannot sin." "Where Christ vs there is
liberty, freedom and salvation."
Mr. Lipsky spoke last evening on the
subject of "The Peace of God,"
DENY RIGHT
TO ISSUE STOCK
In Application of the Cen
tral Vermont Power
Company
CLAIMS INFORMATION
WAS TOO ME
V
Public Service 'amission
Dismissed e With
out ic judice
PALM SUNDAY IN BARRE.
NORWEGIAN SHIP
' HAS BEEN SUNK
GY BUNFIRE
WANT 3-THREE BILL.
Concord, N. H, Granite Cutters Are Said
to Desire It.
Concord, X. H., April 17. Another
meeting ot the (.ranite Cutters un.oii
will be held to-morrow evening in Cen
tral Labor Union hall at which time it
is expected the committees of the cut
ters will have leached an understanding
with the manufacturer' relative to the
issues in di-pnte.
J tie manufacturer ana workers arc
understood to be in accord on all except
i ne lengui or me agreement Pint some
minor regulations residing the ma
chinery. The manufacturers favor a foiir-yeais'
agreement ami the workers desire a
three-years' contract, dating from May
1, when the present agreement expires.
DEATH OF JOHN COM0LLI.
etTday,
statement
" 'n Friday n't1 t tw luMiV aero.
pi.!i-s as.-n-!e l -'T C- 1 ;t I .!.i m I!, . and
rV ot Coti-tunt ,ii j.!e at a -onid- r
lle beulif. They li"pp-d several in--i.!!
rr bomK on t vi '.l near-l-v
wil;. tit re-iilt. liiT t. t:,e tire f
oor snt i -ir rai't co the h-t.!e air
ii . it l"-t .'t t ' c r f ! j.s-t and re-
. V s
I.-' t
I NO l.lt I f T' U'.i III
a T:'.'.i - rear lie
an and ai i aiet.t'v dr..n ,
After that f irrvth lg
n. A r l 17. 'lh.
I bv
t"fv. Hu-!i v
b rs Friday tiij
(nit up hi f-t
vhatgiiig ar
o'T in a , .e.
is a blank.
The the"fv I Cut tie fumr fr-.ni t'e
a. id .liti.'n in the hat.ri -;-. ,1 au-l
. ! river i'ie t: e 1 . r .. n It is
n . T fiat g;.ti- !.n r
ie-!-r-'he'. !?';" "';! Cv r .' t
a in measure iinhrniatrv of the Nan
dit s death. i!! i known to have bad
numerous" J mpat hirer among the ..er
lac in t'e citv and it wtijh conidered
l.i.iih!e t'it their jmt'athv would take
t'.e form of vioVn.e if tb y learned that
the of their h to Ieinff l.ronght
t- l.'iii' u i to f exhibit' l a that of
a rr-Trofat.
F;."y ! a p"ir.t or-n !i h f'.e
i-r.-,t. t mphai is !.(; I: -i.g
! I j...,t f Jji r-rn k' n .f t",' s me
f.ae 1 1 e Hatlle f.f .i. rrerx. at ! - !i time re-
Had Been Resident of Bar re Since 1895
Native of Italy.
.lohn Comolli, for many years a well
known member of, the Italian colony in
Uarre, passed away t his home. 4 Foster
street. Sunday night at 10 o'clock. Mr.
Comolli had lieen in failing health for
some time. He is survived by his wife
and four sons, Jasper Comolli nf .Fiona,
.. Joseph Comolli, who j employed as
a solicitor bv Jones Hros. in Harre. Hugo
Comolli of Piqna. .. and Charles ComoJ.
Il of this citv. He also leaves two sis
ters. Mrs. l'ii& Magnaghi of North Main
vtreet and Mrs. Mario Rossi, residing in
Italy, and five grandchildren. Io and
John Comolli of i'iipta. (I.. .Joseph Comol
li, jr., of Parre, and Mise Fva and
b'oina Saporiti of Mont pel icr.
Mr. I omolli w as born in Piamn. Italy.
Aug. 0. 1K"i-. and was, therefore. Hearing
his filth birthday. Hw nmrriage to Mis
Clementina Arioli took p!a-e in Itlv
vears ago-. In lsj the family ramie to
America and for 1" year Mr. Comolli
was employed in Richmond. Va. He was
a granite rutter by trade and after mov
ing from Virginia be .ite,l in V'l'ncy.
Ma.. where be followed hi trade for a
Unarmed British Steamship Harrovian
Has Been Destroyed, But the De
tails Are Lacking.
London, April jj. the sinking ot a
neutral ship and a British steamship
is reported by Lloyds to-day. ihe or
wegian ship Ulendoon was sunk bv gun
file and the unarmed liritisli steamship
Harrovian was sunk. J he details ar
lacking.
TRYING TO BE FRIENDLY.
Austria Said to Worry Over Possible
United States-Germany Break.
London. April 17. The Budapest cor
respondent of the Morning Post sends the
following:
"The negotiations between the United
States and Germany are being eagerly
followed in Austria -Hungary. Count
Tisza. the Hungarian premier, is vehe
mently opposing any policy likely to lead
to a rupture with the United States.
The question was discussed during the
past week by the Austrian and Hunga
rian delegate who met at Budapest to
continue the Ausglcieh negotiations, and
decision was reached to take certain
definite steps in Berlin.
'Moreover, it is stated, should a break
occur Austria-Hungary w ill t,ke no cog
nisance of it and will endeavor to con
tinue friendly relations with the United
State. '
BEER AND WHISKEY
Were Seized By Officers at 4 Ahem Place
This Forenoon.
period of three xear. Mr. Comolli came
t'T Barre in ls'i.",. He a a member of
the Italian 'M Men's o.i. tv and bell in
high cMcem hy I i rnnipatriota a wrll
a !'V othei in l.arre tmf xirinitr.
It i exfe-ted thai funeral seitice
wi; be I. ri.) at the hue W'e.jnesHi t !
Two barrels of lieer and a quantity of
whiskey in bottles were setred by the
police just before noon to-day in a raid
made on the premise at -I A hern place.
On a complaint made to lirand Juror
W illiam Wiihart, Chief Sinclair. irtieer
John . Pineen and Constable lo-orge L.
Morris searched the house oii-upied by
the family of Joe Sancipriano. Mrs.
Sancipriano wa arrested on a charge of
selling liquor illegally and later when
her lui'hand. a granite cutter. aptH-ared
in citv court thi afternoon, be. too. ,""i,,r'
taken in custody on a similar charge.
Before Magttrate H. W. S.-ott. !,ul,tid
wnd wife were held for bail, ra.-h in the
um of .VVi. It a expected that the
Appropriate Services Held Coadjutor
Bishop Bliss Is Here.
Palm Sunday was accorded its custom
ary observance in Barre churches yes
terday, sunny skies and a milding tem
perature doubtless accounting measure
ably for the fact that uncommonly large
congregations were the rule and not the
exception. Interior arrangements with
palms conspicuous in the altar decora
tions emphasized the significance of Palm
Sunday and its place in the church cal
endar in St. Monica's church and the
Church of the (ood Shepherd. At St
Monica's Rev. P. M. McKenna preached
at Itoth masses in the morning. The
blessing of the palms and the distribu
tion of palm branches, after the proces
sion about the church, took place at 11-
o clock, ."special liolv week services are
to be held on Wednesday, Thursday, Fri-
lay and Saturday.
Rt. Rev. Ceorge Y. Bliss of Burlington,
bishop coadjutor of the Vermont Episco
pal diocese, was the preacher at morning
and evening services in the Church of the
Good Shepherd. He is to remain in the
parish through holy week. Services in
the Church of the flood Shepherd are to
be held at 7:30 o'clock every evening ex-
ept Saturday. There will be celebra
tions of the holy communion Tuesday
and Wednesday mornings and at 3 o'clock
Saturday atternoon there will 1k bap
tismal services. Thursday morning Bish
op Bliss will preach at a service to lie
held at 0:30 oclock. flood Iridav serv
ices are to lie held nt 10 o'clock in the
morning and a service of three hour' de
votional will begin at noon. Easter
Sunday services have been arranged for
a. m., 10:.'tn a. m., and 7 p. in. Members
of St. Aldeniar commandery, Xo. II, K.
T.. will attend the 10:30 services.
Yesterday Bishop Bliss began a eeries
of homilies on the great central figures in
the tragedy that came to its climax on
Calvary. His text for the Sunday morn
ing sermon was taken from the gospel of
t. John. 12th chapter. 3iith and 37th
verses, which read as follows: "Simon
Peter said unto him, Ixird. whither goest
thou! Jesus answered him. Whither I go
thou canst not follow me now; but thou
shalt follow me afterward. Peter said
unto him. Ixrd. why cannot I follow thee
now! I will lay down my life for t by J
sHke." The preacher dwelt at lencrth on
The somewhat iinsual action oT deny
ing a petition to issue stock has been
made by the Vermont public service font
mission in the case of the Central Ver
mont Power company which asked Banc
tion for a $'JO,000 issue at a hearing held
in Montpelier on February 20, last. The
pplication set forth that the compuny
was incorporated under the laws of Vet
mont and that no capital stock had be. u
issued. The petitioners were represent
ed by K. M. Harvey, nn attorney, of
Montpelier.
In denying its sanction, the commis
sion reported as follows:
"Counsel for the petitioner at the hear
ing made the statement that the com
pany desired to issue $20,0(10 of capital
stock and sell the same at par for c.i-d..
When asked by the commission what the
corporation proposed to do with the
cash, counsel stated that the corporation
desired to buy water rights in Orange,
Washington and Caledonia counties. Upon
being further interrogated, counsel de
clined to state what water rights the
company wished to purchase or where
the same was located, stating that that)
would lie determined after the stock
was sold and the cash obtained. Counsel
further stated that the company wiohed
to spend a portion of said $20,000 for
promotion expenses and engineering
without definitely indicating concerning
these last two proposed expenditures.
"It is not the policy of this commission ;
to authorize the issue and salo of stock
by public service corporation without
definite information as to the expendi
ture of the proceeds of such issue and
sale. Supervision over the issue of stocK
and bonds is given to the commission
for the purpose of protecting the public,
from over capitalization, which evil is
always reflected in rates, and for the.
purpose of protecting the investor by
insuring the proper expenditure of hia
investment.
"We cannot afford this protection
without a definite knowledge of--4hc de
tails attendant upon the issue of stock
and bonds including the disposition of
the proceeds therefrom. Xothing was
shown in this matter from which we can
form any idea in that regard. Conse
quently, we conclude that this applica
tion should be dismissed without preju
dice to a further application at the hear
ing of which evidence may be adduced.
"Order."
"It is ordered that the foregoing ap
plication be dismissed without prejudice."
NEW BRATTLEB0R0 CORPORATION
Purebred Livstock Sales Co. Has $25,000
Capital Stock
Articles of association were filed to
day with the secretary of state bv the
Purebred Livestock Sales company of
Brattleboro, incorporated, with capital
stock of $25,000, the principal place of
business to be at Brattleboro. 1 he com
pany purposes to deal in all kinds of
merchandise and to publish and circulate,
newspapers, magazines, etc. The incor
porators are G. F. Gregory of Hummers-
ton, A. A. 1!. Clapp of Brattleboro. John
W. Preston. Alstead, . IL, and Lewis v...
Lovell, Bellows Falls.
Wedded at Bride's Home.
t the bride's home on Smith sf recti
Saturday afternoon at ." o'clock MU
Teresa Cliristofolett i was married to
Aniedeo Conadera. the ceremony being
performed by Justice of the Peace .lame
Maekay. Bride and groom were attended
by Miss Cliristofolett i. a sister of tint
former, and John Oltolini. Alter the.
ceremony a wedding supper was served
and at a reception in the evening many
members of the Barre Italian colony
were received by the bridal party. Mr.
Conadera is a granite cutter by trade.
The couple are to make their home on
Granite street.
Re-Try Barre Case.
The trial of the suit of Jamc K. Pirio
v. Granite Saving Bank & Trust com-
ipany was started in Washington county
court tliM alteniooii, .lonn . t.rnoii
rue peculiar eienien.s men enicreu into ; , ,, , 4nn fl,r t,.
reter s make up a an apostle. cons,,lere, ,fi,tli)n( M ,,, tni) t,, u,t
b.a shortcoming in the light of Chrit a , , . (1,M1,.r,1.
prophecy and drew an interesting para!
lei in Peter' life to certain types that
are to lie found in the evervdnv walk of
the preent time.
Trustees and Appraisers Named.
fi ' t hearing wa held in bankruptcy
jis.utt at. Montpelier to day in the cae of
I Frank Lcvas.ee of at'-rbury. William
j Clark wa appointed truM-e and t lie f..!
! low ing aipi ri were named: l. W.
PASSENGERS TOSSED ABOUT.
FUNERAL OF ERNEST LEMM0N.
wmg appiaiei
Attended By Many Former Associates in I tVxilev and Lnhtrd Fi bhs k of Wafer-
Labor Circles. '"".v "' ' b- -Mki.y ot xiotetown.
l-ahor circle were well represented at'
the funeral of Frn.-st I-rmmon f Van-
B. '.. formerly secretary of the When Twentieth Century Limited Kit
Harre pranite.ntt.-r .oca. lank Cars
at the Citv !.o ital Ir.day night fob J
lowed a long il'ne. S-riee were h 11 j Irtrlati ). April 17.- Live rf r.,ien
at t'e mortuary -lia(l of IVlry A V,. j;c? on tl.e lw.riti.th (rrtury l.imttcl.
couple would be able to pro,tire bail be nan on W-pot square Sunday a:tern...n ' -N " "rk ' ci.tral - era. k tiaio. wet
fore night, jat 2 o'. I.N k. Rev. K-L-ar i ros-l.m i. . -, n p'ti! 'or tV w ild time in thr.o
Formal idea o( not trnilfv wer. ! tor of t he Firt Pre-h t-r tan f hur. h. ..tH-' e. k- la-t ii i't . hen t he t t n . t a-'.e I
A m lw-r.nn . n . eistinp. 1 ne l-eafer wcie: A run , r i ti to two ec.;.iv u'k .at a rM n--
tered
j- -t i In t,eir-g w...,:ei.-J wt; a.j t I fl.c oulf f Mr. Anna tY-.'teaa.
aft.mon at 2 n'i h k. Interment will day morning at ' o'clo.k. when, it is
be niaHe isi the family bt at Hope eeme-J I kelv. a jury will be a-le.f to bear the
ext.ieni. . rami .luror t . harf !Ife
. barje of the pro.-, ut ion. The re.pe.ri I
er!t have not retained r.in. I. Aieg.-l
contraband g.n!. 1 in the rai l were
taken to i-oin-e ) rt-j-iarc r.
In .r..l.te -'irt t .
lUire wa a;q'n l
Max jihr of
administrator of
ri.M ing.
r.'tiide. (.corce Tavl-T. Ale. M k,r.
f ..! Kit. hie. Frio l'ir:e and A!e.
K t. ' ie. There were a Dumber of t-n-tbral
tr bi tes. Varj lalr in. n. -t i
i.g in lie at the snre. a tr I a- .. -,
ex-orl ' !e t'e rem ' wr-e b tr
!! t' Hoj r- n .te'y f..f ii,lermrt
taii.e we-t of the
I ' all. r river, a
tie I ruon :jte'ri
M.fl p:(e w
. t'e ,iil.
a it r ' e f
! l I V t' e ! .
h--Tt
a t
t'e .
.
bri i-e .o er t h
d -t tl'-e ! j
en. l.r
!r;
d e:T
I
