FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
lew
ner
J
VOL. n,-NO. 197
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, MAY 1, 191G.
CorttianT, 1916. t H rtuo Ijresmi Cohmhi.
PBIOB OKB CENT
&
S5n!MjMayflIia5ES'
IRISH CHIEF
ALL GIVE IN;
REVOLT OVER
Provisional President Calls
.on Sinn Fein to Surrender.
1000 Are Prisoners
MILITARY IN CONTROL
Fighting Continues at Isolated
Points Famine Now
Threatens
LONDON, May 1
AH the lenders of the Irish rebels In
Dublin 'hnve surrendered to the Hiltlah
military forces, the War OtTlce announced
today
Official advices retarding the surrender
of the Sinn Fein chiefs were reccled this
morning by tho War Olllce from Oencrr.l
Sir John Maxwell, British commander
In Ireland,
Tho Irlhh Republicans, who were hold
ing St. Stephen's Green, surrendered to
the Government forces last night. About
460 Others, Intrenched In the central part
of the city, laid down their nrms at tho j
loot of Pnrncll Monument. Government
forces' now occupy Four Courts, the Inst
portion of downtown district to be Bur
rendered. Although Peter Fcarse, Provisional
President of the Republic of Ireland lias
ordered his followers to lay down their
oTqs, fighting is still In progress at a
number of points. Information received
here today from Kingstown stated that
the Separatists In Dublin had almost vx
hausted their supply of ammunition and
that tho fighting there had gone down to
Intermittent sniping.
Large bodies of troops, supported by
field artillery and machine guns, were
sent to Ennlscorthy, 12 miles from Wex
ford, where the revolutionists refused to
surrender.
Troops were making a systematic can
vasB of tho city today, searching every
house for nrms and ammunition and ar
resting suspects In houses where Irish
uniforms wero found.
Oftlcinl headquarters issued a statement
at midnight declaring that Peter Pearse,
leader of the rovolutlon, and James Con
nolly, "commander of the Irish army,"
wanted to make terms before their sur
render. They were told that they must
lay down their aiTns unconditionally and
that tho same condition applied to the
surrender o their followers.
Tho proclamation Issued by Provisional
rresMent Pearce advising surrender .fol
lows In order to prevent the fuither
j slaughter! of unarmed people, and In
the hope of saylngMhe lives of our
followers who lire surrounded and
hopelessly outnumbered, the membors
of the Provisional Government at
headquarters have agreed to uncon
ditional surrender, and the command
ers of all tho units of tho Republi
can forces will order their followers
to law down their arms.
PL'ARCE.
1000 PRISONERS TAKEN
Due thousand prisoners are now in the
hands of the British, among them many
vomen. The principal woman captive is
Countess Mnrklcvlcz. women iook a
prominent part In the uprising.
Fires are still burning In Dublin, but
are under control as the fire brigade has
been enabled to resume operations!
Four and six Inch guns are now on tho
righting fiont. Six-Inch cannon were used
In Dublin und 4-Inch guns were sent to
Ennlscorthy
Whether James Connolly, the commander-in-chief
of the republican army, is
dead or only wounded Is not olllclally
known Ho was originally reported to
have been killed, but a later dispatch said
that he had been wounded In the thigh.
Although no olllclal figures as to casual
ties h(ie been given out. the advices from
fie -" - of fighting are now beginning
to apea .? "enormous losses." It Is re
garded i') a certainty that the casualties
onllnued on Ture Four, Column Pour
THE WEATHER
Nq sadder fate ever befell a day than
that which changed the character of May
Day This flcst day of May has had many
Vicissitudes, Being so well placed In the
calendar Its lot was usually one of blue
skies, bright sun and gentle breezes. So
It was natural that It bhould have for so
many years rung to, the melodies and
laughter of the Maypole merry-makers.
Tnen the Puritans came along with their
miserable long faces and pulld down ethe
JIaypolcs and every other good thing they
utd lay their hands on. In later years
te-re has been an attempt to revive the
May Day festivities. tBut a new blow
was struck at the blithesome nature of
jhf dav It v. as adopted by labor or
fewnizatlons In various countries as a good
Iday for rioting and other demonstrations.
ISo instead of looking forward to May
Day fun nowadays, we look forward to
May Day troubles.
I But in eitner case, wnemer lun or trou.
I bles," they have a fine day fpr it," as the
I countryman recently remarked when In
formed that the world had gone to war.
WEATHER FORECAST FOR
PENNSYLVANIA
I fiattd oit a eu dttcovcrv l Molar phyjlcj, y
WILLIS L. UOORB and
W, P. CJLROTHEB8.
Sunday. May 7. Monday, May 8 and
'uesday. May 3 The week will open yen
rally fair, with moderate temperature,
ielng
Wednesday, May to, and Thursday, May
11 Increasing oloudlnees will get in
lKel!trfa2, and it wilt be unsettled fhure-
Friday. May It, and Saturday, May JJ -The
cool movement U due Friday and will
Clear the weather and briny lit degree
polder temperature, with lowest ranging
Sh the !
I I GOVERNMENT FORECAST
1 I For Philadelphia ana viointty n-
I creasing cloudiness tonight with
I showers early Tuesday vtorning or on
t Tuesday; cooler Tuesday; moderate
I south winds shifting to northwest
Tuesday.
For details see page IS,
I.0ST AND gOPNP
OtbM Lwt tied Jfeuwi AiJ ea face 18
Monte Crispin Returns to Become
Pence of Mexico Reals on
. S. Withdrawal Obrcgon
EL PASO, May 1 At tho close
of his first conference with Gen
erals Scott and Funston, General
Obrcgon made tho following state
ment: "I believe American troops
should be" withdrawn from Mexico.
Ii of course, refused to accede to
the propositions of Generals Scott
and Funston. I tried to convince
them that we have the situation
well in hand. I hope Washington
scc3 things ns I do.
"The Mexican people do not take
kindly to an invasion of their
country, and it is to avoid trouble
that I desire tho troops removed.
All of my generals report that their
armies arc in splendid condition
and that peace exists in almost all
quarters. Villa will be caught by
our troops eventually. I think we
arc ready for a long time of peace
in Mexico, and I should hate to
sec it jeopardized by tho interfer
ence of the United States."
APPEAL FOR TRANSIT BILL
Common Council Urged to Pass Busi
ness Directorate Measure
Members of Common Council nro urged
to support tho Select Council ordlnanco
prodding for the nomination of six candi
dates for tho Philadelphia Rapid Transit
dlitctornto by tho United Business Men's
Association In letters Just sent out over
tho signature of William Hancock, presi
dent and Edward B. Martin, chairman of
the Transportation. Committee of tho as
sociation. The ordinance as Introduced In Councils
last week provides that two men shall he
elected by Councils from tho six nom
inated Common Council will oto on the
ordinance, on Thursday.
If you pass this measure," tho letters
say. 'we shall select six nominees out of
our 20,000 members who truly and cap
ably will protect tho city's Interests, yet
will act Justly toward the traction com
pany." U. S. Submarine L-5 Launched
BRIDGEPORT. Conn.. May I. Without
a hitch of nny kind nnd beforo a crowd
of 5000 persons, the United .States subma
rine L-5 Bllpped from Its berth at the Lake
Torpcdoboat Company's plant Into the
waters of Long Island Sound today. Thcro
was no special ceremony attending tho
launching.
U.
Two students In the University
RIPRESA DI ATTACCHI
ATTORNO A VERDUN
I Tedeschi Respinti dalla Col-
lina di Le Mort Homme
dalle Truppe Francesi
Un comunlcato ufncale del Mlnlstero
delia Guerra francese dice che 1 combat
tlmentl attorno a Verdun sono oggi plu'
vlolentl o che durante la hotte t francesi
hanno resplnto parecchl attaccchl fattl
dalle fone del prlnelpe eredltarlo. In un
solo punto I tedeschi erano rluscltl a pene
trare In una trlncea francese, ma solo per
esserpe cacclatl poco dopo da un vlgoroso
contrattacco. Un altro attacco vlolentls
slmo I tedeschi operarono contre la col
Una 41 Le Mort Homme, ma solo con I'artl
glleria che fu ben presto controbattuta
dalle batterle francesi.
La sconfltta sublta dalle forxe lnglesl
a Kut-el-Amara. sul Tlgrl, e' stata grave.
Da Costantlpopoll si annuncia che quattro
tenerall e 610 ufflctali si arreaero
prlglonlerl al turchl comandati da Hahl
pascla. Pero' questra sconfltta non ha
alcun peso sulla guerra che si combatte V
Kuropa,
Uu dlspacclo da Petrograd dice che 11
maresclallo von Htndenburg concentra una
quantjta' di cannonl dl grosso callbro sulla
fronts russa, probllmente con 1'lntenzlone
dl attaccare le llnee del generate Kuro
pa tktn.
Leggere In 6a patina, altre a ptu' det
tagllate notlile sulla guerra, in Itallano.)
Girl Dies; Four Rurt in Joy Ride
PHIITH AMBQY. N. J.. May L A girl
was killed and two young women and
two men ware injured In a Joy-ride smash-,
up early today While trying to pasa
another automobile the car containing
the Joy rider crashed Into a house. Tbe
dead girl was Elizabeth Hasan, of Perth
Amboy
Negro Licensed to Wed White AVoman
SCKANTON. Fa., May 1 A. X White.
45 years old, a negro, and Mary Welcome,
4Q years old, white, unable to And a
WUkM-Barre clergyman or Magistrate
who would marry them, came here today,
obtained a license ajvd started out to nnd
ora oo W U tb teot
tt 1 CSSfll'g WiaKt Bs tlVi- aaa:.'aaatJ-BKAS- .ufjM'g-iniiiiw-Mtw---i - ,.
PUSH VILLA HUNT,
DESPITE 0BREG0N,
ORDERS TO SCOn
U. S. Refuses to Abandon
Expedition Following
Carranza's Demands
BAKER SEES PRESIDENT
New Instructions Sent to Bor
der Co-operation Again
to Be Sought
WASHINGTON, May 1. The Adminis
tration docs nut Intend to heed General
Obrcgon's suggestion for withdrawing
American troops from Mexico.
This was leaincd definitely this after
noon. New nnd more elabornto Instruc
tions thnu hcrclnfiti given went forward
to General Scott, follow lug n eotifercn-f
between President Wilson and Secretary
of War Baker, and another session be
tween Secretary of Stale Lansing, Coun
selor Polk nnd Sccietary Baker.
Thcso Instructions aie mulct stood to
have emphasized previous orders to Scott
not to treat on the subject of withdrawal.
Instend, Scott will stress the need for co
operation once more.
It wns olllclally stateil that the troops
wcic not iicav to he wlthdrnwn. This
menns tho Government Is determined to
pursue Its plans for breaking up Villa's
bands.
Baker called at the Whito House, fol
lowing receipt of a message from General
Scott, asking more explicit explanation of
Instructions as to hnu far ho could gnr u
his next talk with Obrcgon
Secretary Baker received his Instruc
tions from tho President quickly. Tho
conference nt tho While Houtc lnstcd less
than ten minutes.
VILLISTAS BURS MORMON'
COLONY NEAR MADERA, MEX.
HL PASO. Texas. May 1 VilllstaB
burned the American Moimoii colony of
Chulchupa. 25 miles northwest of Madera,
Mcx., according to information brought to
the border today by tho caretaker of tho
colony. The destruction took place last
Continued on l'RRe Four, Column Four
OF P. FRATERNITY
of Pennsylvania Dental College were
house, nt iviz fipruce street, ine pnoiogrupn snows wie
WINKING AT VICE
IN VARE WARD; LID
ON IN M'NICHOL'S
Tenderloin Police Leave J. R.
K. Scott's District Wide
Open, With No
Guards
INVISIBLE LINE DIVIDES
Careful Investigations carried on In the1
13th and 14th (Tenderloin) Wards hava
revealed that an Invisible line on 10th
street, between Vine street on the south
and Poplar street on the north, now
divides, as surely as would a Chinese
wall, the Bectlon where a strict vice quar
antine Is maintained and the section where
the lid is off.
The 13th Ward, lying east of 10th
street, between Vine and Poplar streets
and running to 6th street, Is under a strict
vice quarantine by the police. The 11th
Ward, on the other aide of the Invisible
line, running west from 10th to Broad
street, is "wide open."
Both wards are in the 8th police dis
trict, which Is in Captain Nicholas J. Ken
ney's division. Both are In the section
generally known as tha "Tenderloin."
Both hold the same class of residents.
But there Is one vital distinction. Tha
13th Ward, closed, la a MoNlohol Wan,
under Select Couifollman John V- Fla
herty. The Hth Ward, open, la a Vara
ward, under Congressman John R. K.
Scott. Tho police of the 8th District,
which polio the two wards, are respon
stole to a Vara leader, Director of Public
Safety William H. Wilson.
The Tenderloin la a recognized strong
hold In a hot political fight. Strong-arm
men and squads of repeaters are recruited
and kept there. Schemes for ballot-box
stuffing are worked out there and the men
who do the real underground work on
electiqn dy And their natural haunts In
th Tenderloin. Io the Wtter factional
flgbt between t&e Vara and the Penrose
McNIcbol organization tha traporunee of
I'the Tenderloin 1 openly admitted
As a result, tha poiw nave oes or
Cuullautd a Fue Three, CWuoia Four
a Worker in Hi
U. OF T. FRAT HOUSE
ABLAZE; MEN ESCAPE
Several Overcome and One Student Is
Rescued by His Comrades
Fire In the XI Psl Phi fraternity house,
nt 3912 Spruce street, destroyed the In
terior of the building nnd threatened the
lives of about 20 students of the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania. Severn! of the
young men were overcome by smoke and
one of them, Gordon Peek, a student In
tho dental school, returned to his room to
save his books nfter he had been rescued
by friends nnd was almost suffocated.
His classmates carried him from the
hurnlng structure, this time unconscious
He was taken down a ladder from his
room on the second floor by Alan 1-5.
Beddoc nnd Robert I)e Witt, members nt
the fraternity. The lire was discovered
last night by Charles Weldman nnd II.
Webb Irwin, of 3908 Spruco Btrcet. They
saw smoke emerge from tho first floor
windows and sounded an nlnrni.
The monetary loss exceeded $5000 In
addition, paper and records of no financial
value, but highly prized by the students
becauso of their sentimental connection,
wero burned. A large crowd of college
men and other spectators hampered the
work of the firemen Tho police of two
station houses were summoned nnd forced
tho observers beyond the lire lines. Sev
eral students insistcil upon helping thn
hosemen, but were ordered away by the
police
MORE THAN 100,000 MARCH
IN NEW YORK MAY DAY RANKS
Strikers and Lockcd-Out Workers
Parade in Downtown Section
NHW YORIC, May 1. One of the great
est May day labor paiadcs in the his
tory of New York took placo today, when
nioie than 100.000 striking and locked
oiit workers manlied through the stieetB
of the business Bectlon
Most of the marchers were men and
women of the cloak and sultinnklng trade.
30,000 of them being locked out and
about GO.000 on strike in sympathy. The
other mm riling strlkcis Included 10,000
painters, IIUOO caipentcrs, 2000 metal
woikers and 2000 bakers.
Church Bars Pro-Germans
HACKKNSACK, N. J., May 1. By a
vote of BOO to 2 an audience last night
at the Men's Asbembly "school and flag"
exercises at tho First Reformed Church
declared against letting the German-American
Alliance use t,he State stieet public
school building tomorrow ov,-tilng for u
lecture on "Kast Prut-sin" by Dr. Jlugeno
Kuehticmann, a former piofcssor at Har-ard.
HOUSE SWEPT BY FIRE
overcome when a fire did $5000 damage to the Xi Psi Phi fraternity
room uccujucu uy w aium-ma a n,
DERNBURG WARNS
AGAINST RUPTURE
Says Consequences- of Breach
With America Must Be
Considered
BKflLIN, May 1 "Germany's course
must not be dictated by temporary tactical
advantages, but rather by the exigencies
of the entire situation, military and
naval," declares Dr Bernhard Dernburg,
former Secretary for the Colonies, In a
lengthy leader In the Tageblatt. entitled
"Germany and America"
Doctor Dernburg's editorial Is distinctly
friendly, conciliatory and hopeful. He con
cludes "It Is to be hoped that an understand
ing will be reached which will conserve
our national dignity and whereby we may
retain our relations with the United States
without having to lessen the force of our
activity."
THINGS TO BE CONSIDEUED.
Doctor Dernburg declares that In mak
ing the decision Germany must take Into
consideration her relations with all neu
trals, the effect of the entrance of a new
and powerful enemy, the conditions re
specting food and raw material In Ger
many, and the possibility of attaining
peace.
"It must be determined what conces
sions will ward off the threatening Amer
ican danger," ha continues, "and in how
far our prospects of defeating our enemies
might be lessened thereby. Briefly, our
entire situation must be weighed In the
balance. We must Jet neither national
sensitiveness nor a super-feeling of honor
govern us, and If we feel strong enough
to achieve victory even If we make Mr
tain concessions, then we may make them
without forfeiting our self-repecL"
Tha writer caUa attention to the sup
port of President Wilson by all parties
and declares tha( the President bases his
entire caa on tha Lusitania, Arable and
Sussex, passenger ships torpedoed without
warning, not on countless othar cases In
which attempted flight or resistance Justi
fied tba submarine commander In tor
pedoing.
Tha Sussex, declares Doctor Parftburg
was torpedoed contrary to assurance
gtvtn by tha GrmR Ggvaranwai, asd
tba proof adducd at least adraHi tba
( gaWnunI as Fat STeur. fiehinm Teres
Own MUls; Read the Hero's Exploits to KsifltoHf oh Hfef
ALL CARS HALT
IN PITTSBURGH
AS 3100 STRIKE
Only One Interurban Line
Operates Railroads
Can't Meet Emergency
300,000 WALK TO WORK
May Day Sees Labor Wars
in Many Parts of Country
May day dawned with labor un
rest in many parts of the country.
The biggest strike is in the gar
ment trade in New York city. Seventy-five
thousand workers are out,
striking for more wages and better
working conditions.
The marine engineers nnd fire
men went out today. This may af
fect shipments of ammunition and
other supplies to the Allies.
Four hundred thousand railroad
men throughout the country nro
seeking an eight-hour day.
More than 3000 carmen struck
in Pittsburgh, halting street car
traffic.
The one ray of sunlight in tho
lnbor situation is that in the an
thracite coal region, where tho
operators and miners have reached
a tentative agreement that may
prevent the threatened strike, of
175,000 men.
Thirty thousand workers are on
strike in the Westinghouse plants
in Pittsburgh. They ask moro
wages.
PITTSBURGH. Pa.. May 1. Street car
tralllc in Pittsburgh Is paralyzed today.
Thirty-one hundred motonuen nnd con
ductors are on strike. Tluco hundred
thousand persons walked to work. There
was no disorder thlu morning.
The strike, called nt midnight, followed
a. long conference of representatives of the
union nnd tho Pittsburgh Railways Com
pany, at which Mayor Joseph G. Arm
strong attempted to bring about peace.
Neither sldo would yield, though agree-
Continued on. Page Seven, Column One
munwu unci mu mv.
MINERS WIN MILLIONS
WAGE RISE IN VICTORY
OVER COAL OPERATORS
Virtually Every Demand Grant
ed in Last-Hour Agreement.
Means $12,000,000 Increase
in Yearly Payroll
TEXT OF SETTLEMENT
NEW YORK. May J. A strike in the
anthracite fields has been averted.
The new agreement, which grants the
hard coal miners a wage increase amount
ing to between (10,000,000 and $12,000,000
a year and also an eight-hour day and
will run until March 31, 1920, was made
public today.
The compromise was reached after
many had given up hope for a settlement
and had come to believe a strike of the
176,000 miners was Inevitable.
The agreement made between Districts
1, 7 and 9, representing the anthracite
mine workers' organization and the an
thracite operators, covering wages and
condition-; of employment In tha anthra
cite region of Pennsylvania follows;
"The terms and provisions of the
award of the Anthracite Coal Strike Com
mission and any subsequent agreement
made In modification thereof and supple
mental thereto are hereby continued for
a further period of four years, ending
March 31, 1920. except In the following
particulars, to wit:
SEVEN PEU CENT. RISa
"First (a) The contract rates at each
colliery shall be increased 7 per cent
over and above the contract rates eaeh
colliery effeoted In April, 1913. as estab
lished by tha agreement of May 20,
1912.
"(bl Tha working day established by
the anthracite coal strlka commission
shall ba changed from nine hours' to eight
hours, All employes paid by the 'day or
hour and oojlog within the etassJAaation
of aempany mn except as hereinafter
mare salSaaUy provided, shall ba paid
far a day of slgbt hours, tba rate estab
llhd updar tba 8grewt of Mny 30,
t 'stU)Ud an Pas Tvnj, tetania Two
QUICK-
CONFEREES AGREE ON REGULAR ARMY OF 1S0.000
WASHINGTON. May 1. The Senate and House CcnTcree on the
nnny bill today virtually ngieetl upon a regular army of npproxl
mately 180.000 men, pence strength, and about 350,000 men, war
strength. The ngieemcnt, a compromise between the Hay and Cham
berlain bills, will settle, if ratified, tho main point of difference be
tween the Senate and the House over the country's land defenses. The
Hay bill provided a standing army of approximately 140,000 wen,
while tho Chamberlain bill, as amended, provided 200,000 mcu.
BRITISH COLLIER HIT IN FIGHT WITH SUBMARINE
LONDON, May 1. Tho British collier Wandlo put into port In
a badly damaged condition as tho result of o half hour fight with a
Gorman submarlno In the North Sea In which many shots were fired.
The wibmarlno was disguised with a large sail. One sailor on the
"Wandlo was wounded.
HASN'T PAID RENT FOR 3 YEARS! OUSTED
William Bradley, a dealer in antiques at GOO South 3d street,
his two sisters and their household effects nnd psts were set into fan
street this afternoon by a sheriffs deputy for failure to pay rent for
nearly three years. Bradley, according to the Shciiff's officers, be
lieves he should not be forced to pay rent because his mother died in
the houte nearly a quarter century ago.
U. S. ACCEPTS RITTMAN CHEAP GASOLINE PROCESS
WASHINGTON, May 1. The Rlttman process, cheapest method of obtain'
lng gasoline from crude oil, Is to bo tho property of the people of tho United
States. The Senate today adopted tho resolution of Senator James, which permits
Secretary Lane to accept It In tho namo of the nation.
DEMOCRATIC HOUSE SEATS REPUBLICAN IN CONTEST
WASHINGTON. May 1. Tho House today, without a dlssontlng vote, threw
out tho contest of Wlnfred R. Gaylord for tho Seat In the House from tho 4th
District of Wisconsin. The Houso adopted a resolution by tho Elections Com
mltteo with an unanimous recommendation seating William J. Cary, tho Re
publican sitting member from tho district.
U. S. SEEKS TO DISSOLVE CAN COMPANY TRUST
BALTIMORE. Md.. May 1. Assistant Attorney General Todd filed In tho
United States Court hero today a motion for a decree In the antl-trust suit
agolnst the American Cun Company, declaring the company a combination In
restraint of trade, ordering It dissolved nnd ordering; tho Federal Trade Com
mission to work out the dissolution plnn.
BRITISH SHIP, CITY
LONDON, May 1. The steamship
(Tho City of Lucknow wns a 3669-ton
In 1896 and registered at Glasgow.
8-KOUR DAY FOR MANAYUNK PAPER MILL WORKERS
An eight-hour duy with no redi-ctlon In wages became effective today at tha
plant of tho Nixon I'nper Company In Mnnayunk ns a result of the boom In tha
paper industry. Heretofore two 12-hour shifts had been employed at the plant.
Three eight-hour shifts now will be engaged dally.
SUFFRAGISTS GIVE POSIES TO PARTY DELEGATES
The suffragists of Philadelphia observed May Day In a unique manner.
Promptly at noon a dozen automobiles started from tho suffrage headquarters,
1723 Chestnut street, containing May Day flowers for candidates for national
delegates of each party. To each bunch of posies was attached a mlniaturo
"Votes for Women" plunk, which tho would-bo delegate is respectfully requested
to have placed In his political platform.
LOCKJAW FROM RUSTY NAIL CAUSES DEATH
Lockjaw caused the death today of Joseph LokaJ, of 1042 Chestnut street,
Camden. Lokaj, who was a teamster, ran u rusty nail in his foot a week ago.
Beyond giving it a superficial dressing, he paid it no attention. Saturday hla
foot started to swell. Then he sent for a physician and was ordered to go to tho
West Philadelphia Homeopathic Hospital. Yesterday the swelling became worse
and his Jaws tightened. Last night they were completely locked, and this morning
he died. He was 33 yell's old.
MRS. ROOSEVELT HASTENS TO DAUGHTER'S BEDSIDE
NEW YORK, May 1. Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, on board the steamship
Calamares, of the United Fruit Company Line, is on her way to her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Kermlt Roosevelt, who is ill from typhoid fever, presumably at Colon,
Panama. A cablegram was received yesterday from Kertnlt Roosevelt, merely
saying that his wife was suffering from a slight attack of typhoid. Mrs. Roose
velt made immediate arrangements and took the first steamship out.
ACTIVE CAMPAIGN FOR ROOT BEGINS IN NEW YORK
NEW YORK, May 1. Headquarters for the promotion of Bllhu Root's nom
ination at the Republican National Convention hava been opened in the Hotel
Manhattan, Ex-Congressman John W. Dwight is n charge and Senator James
W. WadBworth, Jr., will look after Root's Interests in Washington. Headquarters
will ba opened in Chicago later, "The purpose of the movement," says a state
ment issued last night, "Is to end the period of quiescence and to give systematic
direction to the sentiment In favor of Mr. Root by providing a suitable organiza
tion. From now on there will be an open, aotlve campaign to bring about tha
nomination of Mr. Root at Chicago. No one who inclines to the support of the
ex-Secretary of State will be left in doubt as to the movement" '
MORGENTHAU STRICKEN WITH APPENDICITIS
NEW YORK, May l.-rHapry Morgenthau. former Ambassador to Turkey, 1
ill from appendicitis at his home, 30 East 7th street- His physicians announced
last night that tha diplomat was not seriously ill, and that an operutlon probably
would be unnecessary. Mr. Morgenthau was to have presided last night at a
meeting of tho Eastern Council of Jewish Kabbla in Tempi Emanu-El.
MM ! I 1111 ! I III ML- -
RICH BOOTY CAPTURED BY BRITISH IN EAST AFRICA
LONDON. May 1. A Brttlsr official communication concerning the opsrattoaa
against tho Germans in East Africa reads: "Lieu. Qmi. Jaa CfefHUas fcUuwta,
cotaroandr of tba axpadltlonary ferns, lekssrapjw tmsr date f April Mr is
bis mounted troops captured in tlw vlolfiltj of Koftdoa Iri vmfrtjUt cvwWiy
munitions, uwoouis -iw as-usM mm.
a herd of muta wiiiie anj itm wswri was jptpntiqr km
NEWS
OF LUCKNOW, SUNK
City of Lucknow has been sunk.
steamer, 350 feet long. She was built
y? .s .ajs,imnT ,jff ppwfpasBBia,
1
1
Hi
I
U
'$
H
-RK
aSS "8P
