f * - " " " \ ' - - -
( _______________
Increasing ok.^Ts^fo^ght; shower, k ^ ^SI^FrOIW frtH fp HoHf
tomorrow morning: cooler tomor- JH ^B y lft Tf II
moderate south winds, shifting to ^g^B ^H/^B ^B^^Br^B ^^B^^B^^B^ ^i^Br fll/l\li VX/?*JLJm -?
northwest tomorrow. Temperature ^B ^B i V ^B H V H H H H H H H A ^B ULAjf wr IZnln Iltc MmOw
twenty-four ending 2 p.m.: High- ^B BB V H H Br H H B H H H H ^^^BB^^k* ^4 H H iUBBk
y fl J H H H H H H H H H H 9r A^^B H B H H
rejM^t' on page 1L ^ 1 l\/ ^^/U>Vi iA f IAA J^VW
I '- ! M C . VrT ^ jJl r V I war* IVet Cter.l.H.^ H.(k f MM.
rLOSIXG NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 18. V? "w ~ "r * ' DaUT **"** 88.T8SI "' ? "*
No. 20.305. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY. MAY 1, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. - ONE CENT.
: i
UNITE IN PROTEST I
OF HOSPITAL SITE
Six Hundred Residents Oppose 11
Location at 14th and Upshur
Streets Northwest.
PLEA TO DISTRICT HEADS I
AT MUNICIPAL BUILDING
!
Delegations Represent Eight Citi- ]
zens' Associations. Board of Trade
and Other Civic Bodies.
The biggest gathering of property
owners that ever assembler! in the Dis- r
triet building united in a vigorous ap- t
peal to the Commissioners today that
they so nerore tonsirso ?uu o.-i\ w..
ha\e the proposed municipal hospital
located at some site other than the one d
under consideration, at 14th and l*p- r
shur streets northwest. r
It is estimated that 600 protestants
filled the boardroom. Eight citizens'
associations, the Federation of Citizens'
Associations. Board of Trade,
mothers' and teachers' organizations ^
and other civic bodies sent delegates t
to protest against the proposed site v
which the District has owned for
about sixteen years. t
S._ l>. Cameron expressed the attitude
of tije opposition in a sentence when
he s*H: "The northwest section will be
behind the Commissioners as a stone 1
wall tf the hospital is built 011 the
present site on the eastern branch: it j
will be in front of the Commissioners
a.,; a stonewall if they attempt to locate
the hospital at 14th and Cpshur t
streets." e
"Telling Points" Aplauded.
George A. Finch of the Piney Branch
Association made the opening address
and introduced the other speakers. The
se ?ion. which lasted more than two *
hours, frequently was interrupted by c
bursts of applause as telling points
were made.
Mrs. George W. Kernodle. representing
the Mothers and Teachers' Association
of Piney Branch. provoked c
ommingled laughter and enthusiasm ?
when, in a peppery speech, she said it
was incredible that people in their f
sober senses could consider such a r
proposition as locating a municipal (\
hospital in a residential section. She
declared that the 14th and Cpshur r
street neighborhood is one of 'grass i
" v. V O uu? I viuxtr n?a>
no woman or girl living there would c
b*- safe if the community is given an
institution caring for mental cases and t
patients of an undesirable character. a
i Represents Board of Trade.
Suggestion that the site he devoted to d
ot^jer purposes was made by William r
McK. Clayton. speaking for the Board of *
Trade. He advocated removal of the Tu- ?
berculosis Hospital, which now occupies a c
portion of the site, to a big reservation ^
!i the country- where the patients would
nave a better chance to recover, and t
utilization of the tract for high school]
purposes when this need is developed by *
the continued growth of the community.
William V. Cox spoke on the economical
aspect of the question, denouncing the
flan to locate the hospital at 14th and
pshur streets as unsound from a business
standpoint. v
Following up this suggestion. Jasse v
V. Suter. for * the Pet worth association,
presented some figures to show
that the I>istrict would be the loser a
financially by retaining the northwest 1
site He said that the estimated value r
of property that would be affected by
location of the hospital at 14th and
I pshur streets is $15,000.0^0 and that *
the depreciation would amount to 30 e
per cent. This, he figured, would cause .
the District to lost $520,000 in taxation
in Ave years, which is more than the
amount proposed to be spent on the
1 ospital. he pointed out.
In opening the proceedings Mr. Finch t
denied statements to the effect that ^
persons who had bought property in 'T
the neighborhood under consideration t
knew that the hospital eventually was ?
T?> o* located there. He said he had g
j el to And a home owner who knew
this at the time of purchase.
Criticism of Methods.
Without referring: directly to the J
Monday Evening Club. which is circulating
a mammoth petition in favor
of a new hospital. Mr. Finch criticised
ths method of gaining support of the T
project, inasmuch as the petitions, he '
charged did not stare where the hoa- H
pita' was to he located and many per- 11
so rhad signed under a misunder- 1
sfardtnr of ihe situation. "
He said the entire difficulty and agi- r
la con could be removed if the Commls- r
Si'-ners would go Immediately to Con- *
gr'-vs and ask tna* the appropriation 1
b.:l ? ?. fo Horded as to preclude the *
l'-.ra'.oit of tne institution a? J4th and 3
I.pr-nur Streets r
a'teer } ?. i'fford. president of the 1
M-> day Evening Cl?:n. explained the '
j.Oh 'ion of that body, stating that its v
o* ocsire e to obtain a new hospi- a
tal. ar.d that n has no preference as I
to Mite
p. Shoemaker of the Rright- x
v ofl'i association submitted the pro
' et -if residents of that section, while ~
7 Powderly -poke for Pet worth
^ <im F. Fowler and Charles A.
i. angle- appeared for the Chillum Cast
< Mights and Wood burn section !
U Others in Opposition.
Others who spoke were Frederick !
' " '"? - oiumnia Height* assort.
who urged that steps be taken:
to f,\ ifje a new hospital on the existing
nite on the Esitern branch.
\ngus l.amond of the Kastern
Home. Mr* HowVd <i Kngiand
r Hr ghtwood Parents and Teach\?sociation.
J, James of the
'vth association. K# K ?'lements.
.'1 .* W Norton, president of the,
Mi Woman s <Mu. Louts Julihn, 1
v mi K <iu?ie. P?e\ Korest J. Pret?-haplain
of the I nited States .
!*e t". a ho lef' a memorandum of pro'
M * Virginia ?* Metcalf. presi-j
d'- -f the Parents and Tear hers Apart
.if. of Bright v* ood Park, and i
es K Hoyle. representing the Park
V ? i iiizeriH Association.
T ' t'ommissionem thanked the pro.
te n?? for ineir presence, and stated
t ne> would give the objections
a*rful consideration.
Secret Budgets in Norway.
HK1HTIAMA. April 3". Ma Lon- I
d"n. "?la> 1 The cuunril of state has
dt?- ded to divide the estimates for the
arm; and navy into public and private
bun gets. The amount proposed for the
Lam.> in the secret estimates is 12.2%2.- ;
4M kroner, as compared sit!i 1 .200.:} ;? |
the public estimates. The secret |
estimate* for the navy are 2 32#.800 I
':r .* "iid tr.e public. vS*V472. ?
t:
ATTACK AT VERDUN
IN DENSEMASSES
Paris Reports Repulse of German
Assaults North of
Dead Man's Hill.
:ROWN PRINCE'S LOSSES
ARE DECLARED ENORMOUS
Berlin Statement Tells of Failure of
French Offensive in Same
Neighborhood.
PARIS. May 1. 12:01 p.m.?German
roops in dense masses made a violent ataek
last nigrht on positions captured Satirday
by the French north of Dead Man's
if 11 on the Verdun front. The attack was
lefeated by the French, the war office
eport of this afternoon says. The Gernans.
the announcement states, suffered
enormous losses."
Counter Attacks Repulsed.
Two simultaneous counter attacks by
he Germans on a trench captured yeserday
by the French north of Cumieres
vere repulsed.
At Hill 304 and in the Yaux region
here was incessant bombardment.
A French aerial squadron bombarded a
upply and munitions station south of
Phiaucourt and a camp near Sincoyirt.
The text of th* communication folnws:
"After a violent bombardment yeserdav
west of the River Meuse the
nemy. at the end of the day, delivered
l powerful attack in dense formation
ipon the trenches captured by us north
>f Dead Man hill. Our curtain of fire,
ogether with the fire of our machine
runs. caused enormous losses to the
nemy. and all the assaults of the Gernans
were broken.
Unable to Hold Gains.
"North of Gumieres two German
ounter attacks delivered at about the
iame hour of the day upon the trench
aptured by us yesterday also were
epuised. In the course of the third eneavor
at this point the enemy, who
tad been successful in Graining a footng
in our lines, found it impossible to
p.aintairi his positions and was at once
Iriven back with heavy losses.
"There has been a Violent and con - .
inued bombardment of Hill No. 304 and '
ilso in the region of Vaux. The night
?assed quietly in the Woevre district.
"During the night of April 29-30 1
'rench aeroplane squadrons threw ,
lown numerous projectiles on the raiload
station and the supply and muni- i
ions station at Sebastopol, south of
'hiaucourt; on the railroad line at '
Stain; on certain bivouacs near Spinourt.
and on the railway stations at
ipremont. Grand Pre. <"'hallerange and
'ouziere.
"During these operations it was noiced
that numerous fires broke out and
, numoer of explosions were effected
>n the railroads."
Official German Report.
BERI-IN. May l, by wireless to Sayille.?The
following announcement I
ias made today at army headquarters: '
"Western front?The situation gener- i
.11 y is unchanged. Near Dead Man's :
lill < Verdun front) violent fighting j
ontinued yesterday. I
"German aerial squadrons conducted j
xtenstve bombardments of the enemy's |
ncampment and magazines west of
Terdun.
"A French biplane was shot down in I
;n aerial fight east of Royon. The '
ccupants of the machine were dead."
French attacks on the German posi- i
ions on the eastern slope of Dead ;
.lan's hill and adjoining lines, in the
egion of Verdun, were repulsed Satirdav
night after tenacious fighting, 1
iccording to the official statement isued
yesterday.
FOE BIGGER GASOLINE YIELD.
Senate Approve* Test of Process Under
Eittman Patent.
The Senate today adopted a resoluion
by Senator Jamea authorizing the
Secretary of the Interior to receive asiscnments
from Walter F. Rittman of
is patent, which is expected greatly
o increase the yield of Kasoline. Ritt
nan is an employe of the bureau of
nines, and the process he has patented
iromiset" to return an average of 45
>er rent from the crude oils instead of
he 16 per cent which now is re coverid,
according to a letter from Van M.
.fanning, director of the bureau of
nines, which was read with the resoluion.
Secretary I<ane has power, under
he resolution, to take any steps which
vill make the process of direct benefit
nd immediately available to the peode.
It was stated, however, in the resoluion
thai I>r. Rittman reamed his forign
rights to the patent.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senates
, Met at noon.
Judiciary committee again fail- j
ed to reach a vote on nomination
of Louis D. Brandels for the j
Supreme '"nurt.
Resumed debate on rural credits
hill I
House:
Mot at 11 a.m.
Phil'ppine* independence bill
\\aa considered by unanimous
i onsent. with agreement fur general
debate of eight hours.
Kle< tions committee declared
Representative William J. ? ary. i
republican, of Milwaukee, proper
1 > seated, despite contest by '
William J. 'laylord. social demoI
<ralDISTRICT
IN CONGRESS.
Senates
The House hill providing for
a million-dollar bridge across the
Potomac n\er to replace the
Aqueduct bridge was passed by
th*? Senate, with amendments.
The Johnson bill providing for
th*- use of the public schools of
the District as community forumi
was introduced in the Senate today
by Senator Hollis of New
Hampshire.
PRESIDENT OPENS
! CAMP FOR WOMEN
Five Hundred Daughters of Socially
Prominent Families in
Tents at Chevy Chase.
WILL LEARN WHAT TO DO
IN CASE OF WAR IN U. S.
| National Service School PreparedI
ness Course to Last for
Two Weeks.
I
I
'< Five hundred young: women?most of
them young: social leaders?now are on
their own resources in the National
j service scnooi prepareaness camp hi
( Chevy Chase for a two-week course in
j what women must do if war comes.
I President Wilson, accompanied by
I Mrs. Wilson, and in the presence of
! scores of Army. Navy and Marine Corps
officers and many important I'nited
j States officials, formally opened the
! camp with an address at the flag-rais
ing ceremonies this afternoon.
The official indorsement by the executive
and the defense arms of the
I'nited States government attested the
high esteem in which the officers hold
this training of the women of the
I'nited States for the duties peculiarly
j theirs in time of stress,
j President Wilson in his addres.4 paid
tribute to the powerful influence for
peace exerted by the womanhood of
this country and their self-sacrificing
| devotion in alleviating suffering during
'the rigors of war. Me spoke of the need
i for preparedness at this time, and said
that women as well as men have a
I duty to perform in being ready to rejjieve
the suffering that must follow
wariartr.
The ramp site was a busy place today,
with lioo young women from halt
the states of the I'nion, registering
and being organized into four companies
and two battalians, so that the
camp discipline might be carried out.
Those in charge of the camp had a
I strenuous time?large parties of the
[resident students lost trunks or other
I baggage and a deputation of Washington
women in khaki un/form had
[to be stationed at I'nion station to
meet the incoming students and see
that their baggage was safely moved
to the camp.
Sightseers Annoy Officers.
The officers also were annoyed by the
hundreds of sightseers who visited the
camp and insisted on special privilege
of being allowed to inspect everything.
I'nder the direction of Miss
Dorothy Denys as officer of the day
there were few besides the resident
students who got within the camp.
Miss Lena Hitchcock showed htr
long-experience in observing military
discipline as guard at the main entrance
to the camp. She had a vexing
office to perform, but did it most ef- !
fectively. One young man who saw a
student of his acquaintance jumped the
hedge and started to bid her "goodbye
' Miss Hitchcock sent him out
[faster than he got in; and a Baltimore
I photographer who sneaked by her did j
not get more man a rou wiinm mci
camp when she had him ejected.
The camp flag was flying all of
yesterday, and the Red Cross flag was
run up in the instruction tent section |
at 10 o'clocli by Mrs. Theodore North
McLoughlin. secretary of the District
chapter, assisted by Miss Marie Handy, j
The Red Cross has a completely equip- j
ped exhibition and membership tent.
A feature of the camp opening was
the scores of taxicabs and scores on j
scores of automobiles that brought the |
students and their luggage. It was an
interesting sight to see young society
women step out of their cars wearing
hjgh-heel shoes, flimsy waists and silk j
skirts, who later on made their appearance
on the camp streets in lowheel
tan shoes and khaki uniforms.
Some of them started in early to acquire
a "tan."
The camp joker got to work early and
spread the report that the rifle range was
riot working, because they had no bullets, '
though there was'plenty of powder in
camp. As a matter of fact, there are no
guns or rifle range or anything mannish
or military about the camp, except
the discipline and some "perfectly lovely"
snowy-haired policemen, whose tent is
right beside the entrance.
Big Baltimore Delegation.
Among the jolly crowds that came to
camp early were forty-five young women
from Baltimore on a special train in
charge of Miss Phyllis Cleveland,
daughter of Glover Cleveland.
Some of the popular Washington society
girls who helped to welcome
friends from other states were Miss
Frances Moore, daughter of the late
Clarence Moore; Miss Frances Lippitt.
daughter of the senator, and Miss
Helen Parker, who spends her winters
in Washington, and came from Newport
for the encampment. She Is a
granddaughter of Mrs. Lyman Tiffany.
The one man who has camp privileges
an?l whose duty it is to "wake 'em up
in the morning." is David Kemp, the
bugler. He is rated as a "drummer" in
the Marine Corps.
The first drill squad was called into
action at 10:1."> o'clock this morning
and was kept busy for a half hour
at semaphore woru. At nrsi mere
wcr" some very awkward attempts to
follow directions. but the natural
grace of the young women soon asserted
itself.
The registration tables were in
t barge of Mrs. Reed Russell. Miss E. E.
Poe and Lieut. Natalie p. Lincoln.
Officers of the Camp.
The organization of the training camp
was effected with these officers: Commandant.
Elizabeth Ellicott Poe; adjutant
general. Villa Poe Wilson; inspectors.
Mi ?. Mary Logan Tucker and
' Miss F. S. Wilson: aids. Mrs. James M.
Thompson. Mrs. F (J. Odenheimer. Mrs.
B. R Russell. Miss Mary Baker and
.Mrs. H B Joy; honorary commandants,
Mrs. tieorge Dewey, Mrs. Hugh I*. Scott
and Mrs. C.eorge Harnett; honorary
i aid. Mr*. Gibson Fahnestock. Train|
inK camp battalions. First Battalion,
major. Anne Tracey. Company A. captain.
( *. K Clotworthy; first lieutenant,
.1 Bigelow: second lieutenant. V. Wilder;
sergeants. K. Russell and N. Barton.
Company B. captain. P. Denvs;
flrst lieutenant. N. Gaither; second lieutr-nant.
K. G. Waterman; sergeants. P.
Cleveland and C. H. Smith. Second
Battalion, major, Natalie Sumner Lincoln.
Com pan > C. captain. R. C. Chisholm;
flrst lieutenant. Mrs. C. H.
Brown: second lieutenant. F. Williams;
sergeants. N. Hopkins and C. Lippincott.
Company D. captain. Mrs. C. Belknap;
flrst lieutenant, R. Gilder; second
lieutenant, Georgians Schofleld; sergeant*.
F. Mclvei and Mrs. R. M. MacLennan.
v\ i
i
r
j ' . . -*~ * "
nnruro r*Tr 10 ifAnurnl
OIOI 0 MIL 10 LLMI1LU
.1
Ship's Captain Kills Himself When
Crazed Over Sufferings of
His Men.
HALIFAX. X. S.. M<|;- 1.?Th. ratal
of the captain -^rnd of the British j
steamship Suffolk. caught In the ice in j
the White sea while on her way to
Archangel shortly before Christmas,
with details of suffering from cold,
hunger and exposure, resulting in the
death of all but three men of a crew
of twenty-seven, and the suicide of
the ship's captain, who, maddened by
hunger and cold, shot himself, were
related here today bv the sailors of
the Newfoundland steamer Bellaventure.
just in from Archangel.
The crew of the Bellaventure. which
has been in Russian waters for more
than a year, met and talked with,the
three survivors, only one of whom,
a Russian Finn, was physically able to
recount his adventures. The other
two were not expected to recover.
The Suffolk, supposedly having a
cargo of war supplies, was caught in
the ice of the White sea with the first
heavy freeze before the holidays.
Heavy weather followed, the Russian j
Finn said, and finally not only food, j
but fuel to keep the men from freez
ing was exhausted.
Twt pAarh T.onH nn Pftnt
The suffering: caused manv of the
men to lose their minds, and while in
this state they succumbed. The ship's
captain, crazed by the suffering of his
men. whom he was unable to aid, and
himself exhausted and worn, committed
suicide.
When only ten survivors remained
they decided to try to reach land on
foot. Taking the scanty provisions
remaining, they set forth on an J
eighty-mile trip across the ice. A j
neavy blizzard set in and the party
soon became scattered and lost. Only
three were able to stick together, and
after days of wandering they were
found by the crew of a British ship
and taken to land.
The Suffolk, a ship of 4.854 tons, was
last reported in maritime records as
leaving Townsville, Australia, November
18. last, for Bowen, Australia.
OFF FOE TRAINING CAMP.
Batteries From Fort Myer Give Ex- !
hibition March for CongTess. i
Batteries f> and IS of the 2d Bat- j
talion of the 3d Field Artillery, '
stationed at Fort Meyer. Va? completely
equipped for field service, marched
down Pennsylvania Avenue this aftV- J
noon, passing the "War Department, the
White House and the United States
Capitol, in parade formation, as a preliminary
to their long march to the
artillery training camp at Tobvhanna.
Pa., where they will remain during the
entire summer. The line of march
through this city was chosen by request
for the special purpose of giving j
the members of the Senate and House
military committees, a slight object
lesson in military preparedness.
The two batteries left Fort Myer at
noon and passed along the east front
of the Capitol at->2:30 o'clock, by special
arrangement, after which they kept on
their way out Maryland avenue to the
Bladenburg pike and on to College
Park. Md.. where they will go into
camp for the night, continuing on the
march in the morning to the Pennsylvania
camp. They will he joined in
Baltimore by Battery F of the battalion
now in that city. The battalion is in
command of Alaj. Manus McOloskey
with a full complement of compay
officers. It is due at Tobyhanna, May
15.
Prince Albert of England Better.
LONDON, May 1.? Prince Albert, second
son of King George, who has been
undergoing a long course of treatment
for a gastric disorder, has completely
recovered and shortly will resume his
duties as a midshipman in the navy.
%
MAY FIRST?MOVING DAY
"YEGGMEN" GET $3,540
FfiflM PHAPIINA? ITdBF
I iiuivi uiinuunnu uiuiil.
i
Blow Safe at 9th Street and Louisiana
Avenue and Escape,
Leaving No Clue.
Safeblowers ''isited the place of bus!-]
ness of P. J. Chaconas, Louisiana avenue
and 9th street northwest, between
midnight Saturday and o'clock this
morning, shattered the lock with an
explosive and obtained about $2,500 in
cash and $1,000 worth of Jewelry. They
got about $40 In change front cash
drawers.
It was not until r> o'clock this morning.
when Mr. Ohaconas and his employes
appeared and opened the store,
that the robbery became known. Then
the police were appealed to, and lie- l
tective Weedon, night chief of detec- j
tives, sent several members of the
force to begin an in vest i gat ion.
T \e.t ??r*t i v?u whn vi<iitprl c I nrp fail- i
ed to find anything to suggest the time!
the robbery was committed or to fur- i
nish a clue to the perpetrators of it. !
Not for eight or ten years has such a j
robbery been committed in this immediate
vicinity, the detectives said. |
Yeggmen Seen Here Recently.
The police believe the robbery was
committed shortly before daylight yesterday.
It is reported that men who
have the reputation of being "yeggmen"
have been seen 4n this city during
the past few days.
It is said by experienced detectives 1
that the blowing of the Chaconas' safe {
was one of the neatest jobs of its kind ;
ever done in this sec tion of fhe coun- i
try. As far as is known the noise 1
caused by the blowing of the safe was j
not heard froin the street, but the condition
of the door of the safe is mute j
testimony of the force of the blast.
The brass knob of the door, battered i
off with some heavy blunt instrument,
was found on the floor near the safe,
and the condition of the door made it
clear that no drilling of holes in which
to insert the explosive had been made.
A bar of cheap rosin soap was used
about the .spindle hole to direct the
flow of tne explosive and prevent it
from being wasted on the floor, the detectives
staled, and an old coat belonging
to an employe in the store was
placed,-over the opening to deaden the ?
sound of the explosion and prevent
pieces of the metal from flying about.
A ladder was placed against the coat
to prevent the garment from falling,
and when the explosion occurred one
step was blown from the ladder and
the coat partly burned and blown into
shreds. The explosive shattered the .
lock and made the opening of the steel |
door and the taking of the jewelry and i
cash an easy matter.
Quickly Done. Police Believe. j
It is believed the robbers were in i
the store only a few minutes. Being j
apparently experts at such work, the j
police state, it required but a few min- i
utes to gain access to the building,
knock off the knob and insert the ex- !
plosive, or soup," as rt is called, and j
set off the short fuse that was used.
Because of the great number of
similar robberies committed' in post
offices in country towns, the police!
notified the chief of the post office in- j
spectors, and had members of his com- !
mand view the damaged safe. j
Word has been passed from police I
headquarters to have the police round I
up all suspicious persons who have j
been seen about the city 'the past few i
days, more especially those who are 1
known as "yeggmen," and it is probable
a number of arrests will be made.
The jewelry taken included a scarfpin
worth $250, two diamond rings
valued at $400, a pin worth $125, a
gold watch and a bracelet. Several
checks were taken from the safe, the
police were informed, but payment of
them has been stopped. Messages have
been sent to the police of other cities
asking co-operation.
I
-V ?
I
K
mam
Senate Agrees to Several Amendments
to Measure for $1,030,000
Potomac Structure.
The Senate today passed the House
bill providing: for a new million-dollar
"pan across the Potomac river to replace
the Aqueduct bridge, after agreeing
to several amendments.
One of these amendments, in accordance
with the views of Senator New
lands of Nevada, provides that the Secretary
of War shall advise with the
commission of fine arts in regard to
the location of the hridgre and the plans
and specifications of the structure.
Amendments offered by the Senate committee
on commerce make the tracks on
the bridge open to the use of electric and
interburban railroads other than the
Washington and Old Dominion railway.
They were adopted.
The bill was passed without debate.
LINCOLN LOSES APPEAL
Self-Confessed Spy Must Go Back to
England for Trial on Forgery
Charge.
The Supreme Court of the I'nited
States today held that Ignatius Timothy
Tribich Lincoln, former member of
parliament and self-confessed spy.
must go back to England for trial on
a charge of forgery.
Lincoln was arrested in New York
and made a sensational escape. He
waif rearrested, and from the order for
his extradition he sought release
through habeas corpus proceedings
The federal district court in eastern
New York refused to release him in
these proceedings, and Lincoln appealed
to the Supreme Court, which today ?fflrmed
the lower court. He claims that
if returned to England he will be punished
as a spy. contrary to the extradition
treaty between the United States
and Great Britain that no one shall be
extradited for a political offense.
WILL INCREASE EFFICIENCY.
Effect of Wage Advance to R. R.
Strikers in Alaska Estimated.
SEWARD. Alaska, .May 1.?Officials of
the Alaska engineering commission in "
charge of work on the United States
railroad said today that they did not
believe the increase in wages granted
to the employes a few days ago following
a strike, would cause a correspond
in* increase in cost of construction and
maintenance. They count upon the
higher wages to attract the highest
type of skilled labor from all parts of
the country .ind increase the efficiency
of the construction force, enabling them
to obtain the same results with fewer
employes than would have been necessary
under a lower scale.
The strike settlement includes the
adoption of standard rules and regulations,
including a rule governing the
persona! habits of employes. Tnder
this rule frequenting a saloon will be
cause for dismissal.
R. J. Weir, engineer in charge of the
Seward division, saia careless and indifferent
employes would be eliminated
rapidly from ail departments. Men of
families who will be of benefit to the |
upbuilding of Alaska will he given '
preference, he said.
Under the method of computing the ,
pay of locomotive engineers, their wages
will average from $225 to $275 a month.
More Daylight tor Holland.
THE HAGUE. April 30. via Uondon.
May 1.?All clocks throughout Holland
will be set forward one hour at midnight
tonight, in consequence, of the
adoption of the daylight saving bill by
both houses of parliament.
CONFEREES AWAIT <
AMENDED ORDERS
Understood to Have Asked Permission
to Discuss Withdrawal
With Obregon. I
WASHINGTON CONSIDERS
SCOTT-FUNSTON REPORT
* (
Latter Announces Only One More
Session With the Mexican Representatives
Will Be Held.
EL PASO. Tex.. May 1.?Resumption
of the Scott-Funston-Obregron conference
to consider the American military
problem in Mexico may not be undertaken
until late today or possibly tomorrow.
when it is believed officials in
Washington will have had time to di
Kest reports sent them by the America
11 representatives of the War Department
here.
Maj. Gen. Frederick Funston announced
at noon today that only one j
more conference would be held with ,
the Mexican representatives on the !
military questions now existing be- I
tween this country and Mexico. He said
it would be brief. Gens. Scott and
Funston are awaiting a reply front
Washington before setting a time for
the conference.
Gens. Scott and Funston worked far
into the night preparing reports and a
code message was dispatched to the
War Department just before daybreak.
It is understood the army officers have
asked permission to take up the question
of withdrawing the troops from
Mexico, which Gen. Obregon. minister
of war of the de facto government,
brought to the fore at the. conference
of Saturday.
Unlikely to Settle Withdrawal. |
That the conferences here will
finally settle the withdrawal question
is not believed. Washington, it is said,
has suggested that the American representatives
obtain all possible data
that may be advanced by the Mexican
conferees and forward a full report
for the consideration of the State Department.
which now has under advisement
Oarranza's request for withdrawal
of the American troops.
After concluding negotiations here
for the withdrawal of ihe troops. Gens, j
Scott and Funstou are expected to
take up the proposition of co-operation
by Carranza forces with the Americans
in crushing the Villa bands. It
is believed that Gen. Obregon before
discussing this question will at least
urge that the American troops retire to
a restricted district just south of the
border. The presence of United States
troops on -Mexican soil is said to be
provoking hostility.
Obregoh and his party think the conferences
will be concluded by the middle
of the week.
Gen. Pershing Is Preparing.
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. XAMIQUIPA,
Chihuahua. May 1, by radio to Columbus.
N. M.?Brig. Gen. Pershing,
commander of the expeditionary troops,
is planning for every possible future
development. Every report of the advanced
cavalry columns and those
reaching here from the border are
studied thoroughly in an attempt to
obtain a proper perspective.
The scattered bands of Villa followers
are being given no rest. Columns
of cavalry are riding mercilessly on
their trails. These fugitives, now in
groups of two or three and now singly, j
are making their way far into the
wilderness of the mountain region in
their attempt to escape the Americans. I
The new motor ambulances which re- j*'
cently reached the field headquarters
are being given their first test in active
service carrying ihe wounded from
Parral and Tomochic to the field hospital
at Colonia Dublan.
Additional Instructions
Sent by Secretary Baker
to Conferees at El Paso
Additional instructions were sent to
(iens. Scott and Funston by Secretary
Baker today for their guidance in future
discussions with Gen. Obregon.
Carranza war minister, as to the situation
beyond the Mexican border. They
were prepared after Secretary Baker
had conferred with President Wilson
and later with Secretary Lansing and
Counselor Po lkof the State Department.
While no official would discuss the j
messages exchanged, it is known that t
Gen. Obregon's insistence that some 1
agreement for the withdrawal of the J
American troops from Mexico be reach- i
fii as a hp sis nf u halfvpr nlhor a ? -
rangements that are made by the con-L
ferees will be met with a clear state- I 1
ment that the Washington government jt
has no present intention of recalling !
i?en. Pershing's forces. There is rea-i
son to believe that Gen. Scott will point
out to the Catranza war minister that
the de facto government is threatened t
by factional enemies within its own
borders who would welcome an opportunity
to rise against it. a
c
Would Satisfy the President. v
Whether Gen. Scott has been author- 1
ized to state plainly to (Jen. Obregon v
the intention of the administration to h
hold its ground in Mexico until Villa s
and his bandits have been crushed is
not known. There are many indications
that this is the intention of Presi- ?
dent Wilson, however, although he is n
anxious to avoid any but the most P
friendlv relations with the Carranza i
government. j
It is believed the purposes of the I
American expedition would be as com- j
pie t el> satisfied if de facto troops
were able to do the police work necessary
as if it were done by Gen. Pershing:
and his men. It was to arrange for
military co-operation to this end. it is j
said, and not for discussion of the)
withdrawal of the American forces,
that Gens. Scott and Funston were authorized
to confer with the de facto
war minister.
The.American officers asked today for r
amplification of the instructions re- o
ceived last night from Secretary Baker ^
after they had reported Gen Obregon's
views as to the withdrawal of United t
States troops. Officials here have de- f
scribed the conferences up to this time
as being purely of a prelimnary character
and for the purpose of exchang- c
ing views. No demands have been presented
by either side. It is understood, t
however, that Gen. Obregon laid such p
stress upon ihe necessity for the with- a
drawal of the. American forces that o
Gen. Scott felt unable to proceed to- 4
ward the real object of his miaeion qn- fe
(Continued on Second Page.) *
ALL REBEL CHIEFS
IN DUBLIN GIVE UP.
LONDONREPORTS
Most of Their Followers Also
Surrender Unconditionally
to British.
"PRESIDENT" PEARCE QUIT
TO SAVE LIVES, HE SAYS
Issues a Proclamation Announcing
That Eebel Forces Were Hopelessly
Outnumbered.
RUIN IN THE IRISH CAPITAL
narna*. So VIIWA*. TV_t
voiiiugv A11IUUUVO tu 0A1111UUD WI !/?!
lars and Thousands of Persons
Are on the Verge
of Starvation.
LONDON". May i. 1:45 p.m.?
Official announcement was made
this afternoon that all the rebel
leaders in Dublin had surrendered.
A11 official list of casualties
among the army officers at Dublin
contains twenty-seven names.
Of this total, five were killed,
twenty-one wounded and one
missing. This list is additional
to the one announced Friday, giving
the names of two officers
killed and five wounded.
Proclamation of Surrender.
KTXGSTOWN*. Ireland. April 30, rf?.
London, May 1.?The proclamation i?sued
by "ProyJsional President" Pearoe
at Dublin, advising the surrender af
all the rebels, follows:
"In order to prevent the further
slaughter of unarmed people, and In
the hope of saving the lives of our
followers, who are surrounded^ had
hopelessly outnumbered, the members
of the provisional government at headquarters
have agreed to unconditional
surrender, and the commanders of all
the units of the republican forces will
order their followers to lay down their
arms. PEARCE." j
^gj
Main Rebel Body Gives Up.
The main body of the Sinn Fein rebels
in Dublin surrendered during the
course of t.he day.
There was. however, considerable
fighting throughout Sunday in Dublin
and the suburbs. It was especially severe
at Balls bridge, outside Dublin.
The rebels in the College of Surgeons
surrendered this morning. One
of the prisoners taken here was the
Countess Marki^vicz.
The whole Sackville street district of
Dublin 'is now in the hands of the soldiers
and the fires are under control.
The appearance of the central part of
the city is remarkable. There is no
doubt that Dublin will show the scars
of its experiences for a long time to 1
come. Many of the city's important
buildings are in ruins, and hundreds
more show the effects of incendiary
fires, artillery shells and vandalism.
Damage by Fire Serious.
The damage by fire is far greater
than from the fighting. The most important
work of the next few days will
be the problem of providing for the
people. Already the city has assumed
the appearance of a town full of refugees.
For a week no work has been
done, and no work means no money for
thousands whose existence depends or.
their daily earnings. The military authorities
declare they are making preparations
to deal with this situation
adequately and promptly, without regard
for red tape.
An inventory has been made of all tb*
'oodstuffs at the disposal of the au
horities, and committees nave oeen sei
jp in various districts to superintend
he distribution. Owing- to the fact
hat there is virtually no money in
Dublin, food vouchers will be issued
jither on the payment of a small sum
>r the promise to pay when possibleDeserving
cases will be handled
hrough free depots.
Rebel Plans Went Wrong-.
The military plan of the rebels was
o seise and fortify the entire center
>f the city, taking up outpost positions
it various strategic points which would
ommand the approaches The idea
vould have been more successful but
or the failure to hold Trinity College,
vith the result that the soldiers soon
tad a formidable force and ti powerful
tronghold in the midst of the rebelsOperating
from this position, the aolliers
were able to split up the rebel
orces, harry them and cut their com
nunications. Machine frtins were
nounted to command the streets, comclling
the rebels to keep under cover,
n fact, as soon as the military ma- ^
hine began to work smoothly the
ebels were reduced to sniping: tactics.
The looting was done mostly in the
>arl.v hours of the disturbance and ap>ears
to have been the work mainly of
vomen. The rebel leaders did everyhing
possible to prevent the looting,
iven shooting some of their own ad?erents
who were caught red-handed.
Discard Rebel Uniforms.
The military authorities are taking
igid measures to prevent the escape
.f the rebels, although this is made
liflftcult owing to the fact that most of
hem discarded their Sinn Feiner uniorms
and donned civilian clothes
k-hich enabled them to mingle with the
rowds of peaceful inhabitants.
A military permit is now necessary
o pass through either the inner miliary
cordon or the larger circle drawn
round the city. The permit and the
earer invariably are subjected to close
xamination. Even a stricter watchr is
eing maintained over persons desiring
o take passage out ef Ireland from
s
