Sports of all sorts covered - All the News of the World
by experts-and the com- by Two Telegraphic and
plete box scores of the ball Cable Services-Al the News
games. of Washington.
NO. 3483. WEATHER-FR- WASHINGTON, D. C.. MONDAY, MAY 1, 1916. ONE CE".
707 PRISONERS
ARE TAKEN IN
DUBLIN REVOLT
Countess Markiewicz Declared
to Be Among Captives of
Crown Troops.
SURRENDER IS URGED
Peter Pearce, "President of
Republic," Said to Have Ad
vised Laying Down Arms.
MORE FIRES ARE BREAKING OUT
Cavalry. Infantry and Artillery Sent to
Wexford to Engage Rebels-Gal
way Insurrectionists Are
Disbanding.
(By the International News service.)
London, Apri 3.-The situation In
Dublin i- much more satisfactory. It is
hopel the backbone of the rebellion has
been broken. *
This Is the lastest official word from
the commander-In-chief of the British
force in Ireland.
Peter Pearce, the so-callel "president
of the republic of Ireland.'' who sur
r-ndereI yesterdav. today dispatched
suwenons to the rebel leaders throughout
Ireland to surrender to the local authort
tiis in their respective localities.
In T)ublin its-ef. 77 prisoners have been
captured, Including Counaess Markiewies.
Ofnclal Statement Gives.
The foliowing official statement has
been received at the Irish office from the
commander-Iin-chief of the British forces
in Ireland:
'Throughout the country there is still
much to be done which will take time.
but it is hoped that the backbone of the
rebellion has been broken.
lAst night messages ware sent out
from the leaders of the rebellion in Dub
Itn to rebel bodies in Galway, Clare. Wex
ford and Dublin counties, ordering their
s:rrender to the priests and the royal
Irish constabulary. I am doing my beat
to dissiminate this information.
"As regards thi itnatim to atnft tie
rebels from the areas of Sackville street,
the postoffice and Four Courts are sur
rendering freely.
"More Incendiary fires oemurred In
Sarkville street last night, but the foe
brIgad is now able to resume work.
707 Prisoners Taken.
Tt is reported that up to the present
N7 prIsoners had been taken. Included
S'lis number is the Countess Markie
A mixedi column of cavalry. infantry
and artill-ry, including 4.7-inch guns,
has been s-nt from Wexford with a view
to enga.zing the rebels.
-The latet information from Ennis
orthy shows that the rebel leader of the!
P1,10 does not believe the rebel leader's
tessage from Dublin and has proceeded
to that city in a motor car under escort
to verify the information. Meantime a
t r e xis..
*A d-putation with a similar purposel
fem the rebels at Asbourne has been
sent to Dubln. The Gaiway rebels are
believed to be disbanding. A few ar
rests have been made.
"The situation at New fluss, Gorey,
Wicklow, Bagenalstown and Arklow is
reported normal. Carlo and Dunlevy are
believed to be quiet."
COWBOYS ROUT BANDITS.
Two Scouts Slay Three Mexieann
and Scares Off Others.
By GEORGE H. CLEMENTS,
Sun News Service Correspondent
Field Headquarters. Punitive Expedi
lion United States Army, April 26, by
Motor to Columbus. N. Mex.. April IL
There was an encounter between two
scouts and a party of ten bandits near
Cocomarchic in the Babicora district on
last Sunday, showing that there is a gen
eral movement to the northward of the
remnants of the Villista "army." which
was so signally defeated by Col. Dodd's
forces at the battle of Guerrero early in
the month.
In the fight at Cocomarachic a band of
ten Villistas was put to rout by two cow
boys acting as scouts and who came upon
the bandits suddenly. They organised
themselves into a skirmish line and
oharged over the hill with a series of
yells, which, judging from the volume or
sound, might have emanated from the
throats of at least fifty men. The Mexi
cans left their shelter and made for the
oak-covered bIlla. Three of the
ta were killed,
Long Buried Deer Found.
lella. Ark., April lO-Quarrymen at
place uncovered the body of a deer
clay pocket in the face of the rock
ily when they exploded a large
.The body was twenty-four feet
rground and had evidently been
for centuries. The horns were the
preserved.
orgenthau Has Appendicitis.
v Tork, Apri 20-Henry Merge..
rmner ambassador to Turkey. was
ten leith sapndicitia at his home.
4
T.R.TO TOUR
MIDDLE WEST
Announces Plans for Swing
Before Leaving for
Oyster Bay.
AGREES TO GIVE MEMORIAL
ADDRESS AT KANSAS CITY
(By the lateratenal News serviec.I
Chicago, April 30-Before starting
back to Oyster Bay this afternoon Theo
dore Roosevelt announced that he had
lefinitely decided to accept the Invita
tion to deliver the memorial address in
Kansae City on May 30.
Tentative plans are under discussion
for him to swing into the Middle West,
beginning probably at Des Moines about
May 15, and devoting the ensuing fifteen
lay to a series of addresses as far West
as Denver. winding up at Kansa City
on Memorial Day.
The Colonel's friends are highly pleas
ed with the warmth of last night's re
ception. The newspapers agree that the
demonstration was the most remarkable
one that has been witnessed in Chicago
in a long time.
This afternoon Harold I- Ickes. Pro
gressive national committeeman from
Illinois, gave a luncheon in Roosevelt's
honor at Hubbard Woods, seventeen
miles north of Chicago. At the head of
the list of guests was Walter L. Fisher,
Secretary of the Interior in the Taft
Cabinet.
Among the other guests were John V.
Farwell. a prominent wholesale dry
goods merchant and strong suppoxter of
Taft in 1912. Walter M. Lampert, a lead
ing Repubilcan and banker; Conrad H.
Poppenhausen, a wel-non German;
N. W, MacChesney, president of the lli
nois Biar Association; John C. Shaffer,
proprietor of Several newspapers, and
Theodore W. Rbbinhon, vice president of
the Illinois Steel Company, Who sup
ported Taft in 1912.
Wriager Strangles Her,
Pratt. Kan., April 2k-An electric
swashing machine which she had pur
:based to make her housework easier
:aused the death of Mrs. P. M. Gates,
wrhen a scarf she had about her neck
aught in the clothes wringer aed
strangled her.
Germ Cos hrwM
Bloniki. April L-Engish enary
boarded a train bound from Seres to
Drama aid klok of the Germ.a cesa
it Drais, who had bees aseamg M
~sinse He was takais e~.a
IRISH PATRIOTS I
Washington Awaits- Receipt
Of Gerard Cable Reporting
Friendly Message of Kaiser
WVilson Said to Have Set Lusitania Anniversary as
Limit for German Answer Complying with
Demands that U-Boat War on
Merchantmen Cease.
Ambassadlor (3era rd has cabled briefly E prr ontrgr r eadsds
that he is forwarding a long report of ptha ieyt eiv l eso
his meeting with the German Emperor.he.Scrtyof taeTnigsd
The report is understood to convey a ls ih htteatalnrmie
message of good will and friendaf1p from ucagd
the German sovereign and to make It Rprsaecreti ilmtccr
clear to President Wilson and the ce htPeietWlo a e n
American people that Germany wants we rmysedy4eanvrayo
peace with the United States. All Wash-th oikn ofhe uitr&.$heim
ington is now eagerly awaiting the re
ceipt of Mr. Gerard's dispatch, but up
to a late hou~r last night It had notofteP sintae ncndtorg d
reached the State Department. It Is ex- terprsmr eiul hn mr
Peeted that it will reach President Wil-spclto .
son today.Thypitottath Prsdn bn
Officials here, though not wishing totodsvrlcleswhitelst ek
minimize the importance of any imperialtht eha prcily mdeu hi
Imessage of friendship and good will or mn st h egho ieh ol
thecocil~t yatttue f te e Emperat or, dormnt s rerlM.Geadsd
patch0 asolkkl to Sreiealtnso
Ian nigh that C the Tuon rined
By L F. ALBJDGILThe siig of theLsthadspre tndie
fo Gem n' anwe to h nt. It
isipsibet ofimtibu red
ofte Peien r.nlne o rgr
th eot oe seiul h n mr
spcuaios
Thypin u ta hePeidn a
toldseveal alles wthinthelastwee
that he h d prcticlly ade p hi
By L.RF.HWAATRIDGE.
WahingtonwAwaisrRece.)
Ofw York ardrCable-NRwpooktCit
Wlsslom, Sid tver Hven conrotd stni nieraya
iit moreGermaousnswerrCsmtuainonwita
sudon omrrwctmsaltogethat pro-BotWro
thathe frwadin a ongreprt f pThe sikl tof relie h a llprea andsis
his eetig wth te GemanEmpeor.hee cntary on te rd s ne cm
The rportis unersto toconv matat on thte noiua pect remaine
message ofitoadiiol aodayineverp fromrenchanted
the erma sovreig andto mke t otsre fcreto inc diti ucr
clea to resient ilso and the desthPre dent Wlo higeas e ane
Aiab eole that wr era ern tiwnge shektero hou r da-s.nivrayo
peae buikt o the niedmptates. All vaos Lcl the n o h uestaof- threr tin
tdes wil beagerl aaii ng e e- Vorveranysvde ase oows: Gnrte. nt
Butpt o !r rddis patchly nNe butrk C ity ipo ssibl, to,00 metaliwm rkrs, ut ,men ;
rehed the StateonrmntI is omngi- therrts mo0r; sanerisl, 2000;harpntmere,
pTedrrw th aywl Dach Ptrkesin at i 00- mpcainers wr.r,120 aciet
ever toa. o nutil ci yaet They ir nt woker tand brhe reetha
becalsee, thoughando wreishin tr told sea calers titla wmere,
mintediby the imorteae otn meria As whae had pacicall dmade bup who
messagepoffriensuh an emgodio will probdasl tote lengtd oft he world
200,00o0worer Woth rk eroThtrir
Iiimlognisto Newbe Yoe CtyT nih
1 Dy Le. F. eve Ury iy Tfhenypristh ost hmpr dand ths
(Thybae sumndew leaes tos49preding and everokand cornke of
haid seldmian fy evr bee conro t eatoro the e conomica rasect bofthe
iethat ore seru s bo siuainthan i th tdayn, ever inee ha the
sndwn tomorrwity, loete rb idsrad tead fpdor a igh r gesn
tnheauk fthe ejoe nvriu al henuers of wre rs.
trds ill e on is ~ 'ie redvdda olos amn
FEW MIRRORS
AT GIRL CAMP
Only One Looking Glass for
Five Fair "War"
Students.
CHEVY CHASE TENT CITY
WILL BE OPENED TODAY
They will sleep on cots, five in a tent.
Each tent is equipped wth a wash basin
and an eight by ten mirror. They will
have fifteen minutes in which to dress
and do their hair. Can it be done?
The 200 society girls who will begin
military training at the Chevy Chase
camp of the National Training School
say that It can.
A Herald reporter prowling in the dark
ness last night through the camp in
search of information was confronted by
a watchman, and ordered to get out.
"But I'm only having a look at things.,"
objected the reporter.
"Can't help it. No men allowed in
here at night. Beat it."
"It Can't Be Done."
"All right." temporized the reporter.
"but before I go tell md one thing. How
are five girls going to do their hair be
fore one mirror"'
The watchman grinned. "Ask me an
easy one, friend." he said. "It beats me.
My wife she has to have two."
The opening of the camp is scheduled
for 2 o'clock this afternoon.
President Wilson will deliver the ad
0TnINUED ON PAGE TWO.
FRENCH XAn GAINS.
Two Attacks successfully Carried
Out at Verdum.
Paris, AprIl 30.-Two small attacks were
carried out successfully by the F'rench
on the west bank of the Meuse in the
past twenty-four hours. Last night
Frtench detachments occupied a Germuan
trench north of L~e Mort Homme, taking
flfty-three prisoners, and today a Ger
inan trench north of Cumleres, just to
the east, was taken and thlrty-thuree
prisoners were captured.
The German artillery directed a heavy
bombardment today againat the French
Arst and second-line trenches at Ila
sort Hannne, but no infantry attack
was made.
Mrs. qdia. l00tB Dies.
Greeamwieh. Conn.. AprO 30e-Ly P.
'IW of Dr. John I. floots, ef
N. Y., died from geou
~t*. eter daughter. MM.
Pittsburgh Carmen
Vote to Go on Strike
By Iaternattemal News Serulee
Pittsburgh, Pa., May i.
Three thousand and one hun
dred street car rmen went on
strike at midnight, after an
eleventh hour conference called
by Mayor Armstrong between
company and union officials
broke up at 11:15 o'clock with
out agreement.
It is estimated that 300,000
persons will walk to work this
morning.
The street railway companies
will lose $32,000 a day in rec
nue and the nen $8,ooo in
wages.
RACETOSAVE
AUTO VICTIM
Friends of Restaurant Pro
prietor Reach Hospital
Too Late.
GEORGE ZAGOS DIES WHILE
MACHINE SPEEDS FOR CITY
Injured in Accident on Maryland Road.
Woman and Boy Hurt as
Car Overturns.
Death won in a race for the life of
George Zagos. 3. of 113i Tenth street.
along the darkened Marlboro road of
Maryland riist night Zagoe was injured
forty miles be.ow Wash:ngton in an auto
mobile accident. lt dibd in the arms of
his friend, Lee E. Walker. in a speeding
automobile racing for Emergency Hos
pital. Death occurred before the course
was half run.
Zagos, who was proprietor of the Obe
lunch room at 814 Fourteenth street, was
out for a motor tour with his friend wNal
ker. living at the same Tenth Street ad
dress, and Walker's wife and son. 6yd
ney. They were returning from Chap
pelt Point Beach. 31d. Near Cox Station
the automobile. spe-ding at tihirty miles
an hour, struck a rut and Zagos lost con
trol.
Trhgown Assimat wheeL
The nsamhing plunged to the roadside
and into a barbed wire fence. Zagos wai
thrown against the steering wheel. Mrs
Walker landed on top of him. Mrs. Wal
ker was badly bruised and a rih was
broken. Sydney, the son. was cut acros
his neck by the barbed wire.
A few moments later, a machine drove
up occupied by M. R. Ediav:tch and M.
J Ed:avitch. of Upper Marlboro. whom
Zagos and the Walkers had net at the
bcach resort. The Ed:avitch brothers
plaeod Walker and the th-re ii-red per
-ons in the automotil and sped for the
home of Dr. Spencer. a mle and a half
eway. Dr. Spencer pronounced Zagoa
ratily injured interray.
Forty miles from WVashmiigton the race
.gainst death was blein. M. R. ela.
,itch. disregarding the rouzh highway.
threw on the speed. The njured man
rested In the arms of Walker. Ha:f way
to Washington Zagos died.
The automobIle reached Emergency
iHospital about 9 oclock Ph1e tans sai
Zagos had been dead an ho r.
MTNERS GET WAGE INCREASE.
E2tg1t-hour Day and flecognitton of
Union Also Granted.
New York, April 2.-The subconritte
of the anthracite miners annoonod to
day that it would report Monday to the
tri-district board, or scale committee.
the workeis.
The board is exp(tedd t.. no, rse the
tentathe wagc agreem. nt cnt-e-d :nt<
between the members of the subcommit
tee and operators. The a.1cer nt wil.
be made public Monday.
The folloogn statement waa iss ed i1
the anthracie me'ins
"The agreement ntered ito i s e the
miners wage int. -es from ~ t, 1 pt-i
cent, a form of ;-gnit-n of ia nion
and an eight- our di.
U. S. ARMY TO RETIRE.
By the %us Nens Serdtee.
El Paso. Tex.. April 30.-The l'nited
States army, it Is atmost cetrain, wi:
be ordered out of Mexico within a week.
It will either retire from Mexico or
fght Mexico.
Whether tie de fa to rnt n ment
would declare open war on the Ameriam
troops is not known. but if the Mexican
officers are to be believed. and In this
their declarationts are contirmedi by re
port of American army officials now It
Mexico, the temper of the Mexic'an people
is such that op.ent cias'he between the
Americans and Meriians cannot is
staved off very much longer if the Amei
cans remain in Mdexiso.
03IEGON ISSUES DEFI.
El Paso. Tex., AprIl ,) -"I niled I tate.
troop. cannot remnaini in Mexico. sjwisl.
one mits or :iMa miles south If th boer
der, Itout ogfending not only the di
faito government, Which I represent
but atso the sovereign peolple of Mex
Minister oev War Obreg'on made thhi
statesnt today. The comment foliower
the announement tlgit Geno. Ascott ha
lbeenge to inapu'as upon (Geet Ohreger
esak earimn mana m.tab.. kept it
BORDER PARLEY
HALTED UNTIL
ORDERS ARRIVE
Scott Not Expected to Confer
with Obregon Until
Tontorrow.
MEXICAN -STANDS FIRM
Refuses to Recede from De
mand for Immediate Evac
uation of Country.
FEARS ANOTHER REVOLUTMN
American Envoy Assures Obregon that
Menace to Southern Republic
Would Be Greater if Troops
Were Withdrawn.
FioiinaI 1he receipt of a repart
at she ar -Department yesterday
from Maj. Gen. Hugh I. %e.it, Chief
of Staf of the army. eeseeraing hig
initial cnferepee with (ew. Alaro
Obegea. minister of war t. the Car
rams= cabnet- It was flatly deald is
f etriai circles that Obregen has d
masde a withdrawal of the Ameti
can expedttoem from exfc.
(By the Can -News servie..
El Paso. Texas April 3.-Mert-c'N and
the Vnit-d States' military peAre nm.
mnioners did not ii-et again todar
GOn.- Hugh I. Sctt's report on wlhat tins.
plare at the conference In Juarez 'esterday
was noit delvered to the Presicent unt
noon today, he was advised by the k t
Department, and he stated toi,.ght Ti
he did not expect ftzrth.er Instre I'
until tomorrow.
The Insistence of Gen. Ala&ro Cbreg.,
Mexilan mlnister of war. that the Amer
Ian troops be withdrawn at once u as
the barrier upon which the onference
split. Gen Obregon Lnsisted that the
American troops must leave Mexioo. not
merely because the Carratza government
wishcs, but because. be aid the Car
ransa goverYmbet to In eatal danger of
oetor everthrwar a f ag of
a formidable revolution tf tMa does act
take place.
Cites Chthuahua PSet.
Gen. Obregon cited a recent aftae In
'hIhuahua City, in which he @ai so
two hundred men were arreted if a
hall where they were plat a h
of Gov. Guterres and an l
offioes in the state, becase the C
rasia government had permitted Me
American troops In MeXrIo.
This affair. he said, was mtoch zana
serioup than the border ever know, and
other and similar affairo nright be ig
pect'd all over the eountry If the Anae.
can troops were permitted to remah to
Mexico by the de facto governtnant with.
out roistance.
In reply. Gen Scott laid befere the
Mexican officials another ptase that
might endanger the Carransa regime to
a greater axtent than the denger at
home.
Seott Tells of Alternative.
G;en Se-t told Gen. Obregon that the
Amerioan people are in such a frame of
mind that If their troops were withdrawn
and another raA should take place, slm
1ar to the affair at Columbus, it would
be impossible to stem the demand for sn
immediate invasion of a ar on Mr . ,,
,iew of thir. G-;n. Scott Ir.formed G,
ii rogon that it would be poss Ne f
Mcx.eo to aiccept the co-operatot. c' 'h
Amercan troops in c -'ing the ! andis
Cin thus sta e off th' Aneriar. --r!,
i-nt for the Am-e gron 0rm0 nt 1.
make the var on tie Iho- count
Gen Scott wirrd h M. x :ar demanid
tI ,I government. srd 4e;n 'hegon re
portI that he wired the substan-e of Gen
Sott's remarks t. ;er 'a-antz <iro
Ei did not sia, toda whc'her i. han
reived an r-: from the !rst chief or
not h.2t tTsi :n his part' say he carn.
oere =ith oIen m t rlrction to Irnis upon
:e w ihdrenl o! the Amrtian fories,
-nd to accept no -1mromise.
SEVEN 'PLANES BROUGHT DOWN.
Parts Reports Heavy Leasses tlete
ed o (leriman Airmen.
Paris. April a4n -Considershle aerial se
tivity i= rereted agaIn tonight 14eren
Germoan mnachiPs were brought deown
today, the of"ial communtkue sn
n'ounces. Two ofthese both Fokker- ma
-tine, we'-e a'-arked in the region of
Roye by one F~renoh aeroplane, whleh
caused one oif the Fokkera to crash to
the ground anid compelled the pilot of
the other ialight.
F'ench aerolanie brought downi two
ottier Fokkers. ine near Lee Epesee and
the ether sou th of Douaumont. Of five
Georman machtnes which dropped begabs
n he cr cion south of Verdtm. twe wae
ibrought ienn 0by French serojplanea. am
tN-d I anti-a re-aft guns, last alght
erm ian etriane was brought dowa
n the Argonine.
Abstineuoe Weth $IOU.
lae i'rn-se. Wis.. Apri 3.-Om the shew.
nsg thai hie had tnot smoked d1mt
-,rt-nk i initoattns iquor up te 4
ti- e wS.Sa iS. .noues T. itel
a..d A. hias been awerded an
of 1ilyUi left himn by his r ht.
jiata Horace A. Tayler. o~ b~
