'roperty STATf.
589501 7
WDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
ARIZONA
L Awvuan 3j.vxs
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, MAY 1, 19 1G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 347
WASHINGTON ENGAGES IN GUESSING
AS TO NATURE OF GERMAN REPLY
REDUCTION OF BOOK
COST OF PROJECT IS
OF THE REVOLT
SECURED BYENVO YS
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICANS
JUAREZ CONFAB :
AWAITS ACTION
onsicii
It May Suggest Abandon
ment of War on Mer
chantmen While Matter
Can be Talked Over Again
With United States
NO INFORMATION
THAT NOTE IS READY
German Submarine Com
mander Throws Light on
the Sweeping Character
of Instructions As to
English-bound Vessels
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 30. Secre
French And German Reports
As Conflicting As Their Arms
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ;
The backbone of the revolt in Dublin
has been broken and the rebel leaders
there have sent messages to various
counties ordering the rebels to sur
render, according to an official state
ment issued in London.
In Dublin the rebels are reported to
be surrendering freely and already
"00 have been taken prisoners, among
them the Countess Markievicz, a noted
agitator. As late as Saturday night
more incendiary fires were set in
activity in Sackville street.
The French and Germans have been
active on several sectors north of
Verdun, with the results evidently in
the enemy. In the left hand crater
the commander of the garrison Lieu
tenant Meyers, had been wounded dur
ing the afternoon but was still at his
post. The bombardment had left him
with few men but none the less he
resolved to fight.
"All who coufd stand manned the
parapet. Then two more large high
explosive shells wounded or killed half
the slender garrison. Only five were
now left able to walk and two of these
were wounded.
Lieutenant Myers decided to re
treat. Following his men. he crawled
away from the crater pursued by the
hvi.i nt tho French To the
tary Lansing said tonight that he tiaa , ,. , Homme tne French seized
no new dispatch from Germany be"1"-1 German trench and captured r.3 pris
ing on the submarine situation and on(,rs and to the north of Cummleres
that Ambassador Gerard has not re-mad(.' a sjmjiar gain in which 30 pris
ported on his conference with Em-()I)er8 were taken. Berlin says that
peror William. A report from Mr. Btrong French attacks from Le Mort
GerarJ is expected hourly and of- jomme to the northern part of the
flcials think it probable that it w'U Caurettes wood were repulsed,
forecast the German reply. On the British front, except for
Information received tonight from small infantry attacks, notably in the
German sources is to the effect that Vosges mountains and in the region
the Berlin government has consid-'of Lassigny. bombardments alone have
ered replying to the American demand' been in progress.
for the Immediate abandonment of In fights in the air the French claim
present methods of submarine war-' that their aviators have brought down
fare with an offer to have its sub-four Fokkers and four other German
marines operate at least temporarily,! aeroplanes, while Berlin says that in
only as cruisers against enemy mer-.a fight over Verdun, a French machine
chantships. German officials are said, was shot down.
to have expressed themselves as :ie- Except for an Austrian attack on the
Jng favorable toward the plan. Tne Col Di Lan. which the Italians report,
state department, so far as is known,, on'r bombardments have taken place
ha- no information on the subject. I the Austro-Italian line.
it ih rrman ror.lv has been1 In the region south of Lake Marocz,
fluently " j machine glm ijre of the enemy. Two
,e north of ; of ,hf men were soon mt but the party
regained cur trenches,
was then iii.woundcd."
Only one man
French News
PARIS, April 30. 12:45 p. m. The
capture of a German trench north of
Dead Man's Hill with 53 prisoners, the
ejei lion of the Germans from trenches
they had taken south of Iasigny, and
l he repulse of German assaults in the
Vosces, are reported in the official
statement by the war office this morn
ing. In the- Argonne, a German aero
plane was forced to earth by French
machines, and its two occupants were
captured.
drafted official information on tiie
a further success for the German arms
against the Russians in the capture of
gun and
onMonf la lanWnir That a note will
. . . .. .-I ,' , , , four guns, one machine
. . .. . . .. u .,' eightv-three prisoners is reported by
instructions to count von BernstorL
the German ambassador, is considered
in German quarters, to be certain. It
is known that the latter method of
Berlin.
procedure at one time was considered
The Defense of St Eloi
OTTAWA. OnL, April 30. The he
roic defense of SL Eloi positions by a
by the German government. The idea Canadian lnfantry brigade is recorded
in a dispatch from the Canadian gen-
was however said to have been r(
jectefl. erai headauarters in France, made uub
The American note calls upon Ger- Jlc here llUlif;nt
many to immediately "declare and During the week the main efforts
effect" an abandonment of existing of the enemy on tne Canadian front
submarine practices. In German were once aKam centered on our St.
quarters it is intimated that it is Kloi positions," says the message. "For
quite Possible the Berl'n government eVeral days one of our brigades held
formaliy will so "declare and effect" this section, repeatedly subjected to
Contrary Statement
BERLIN. April .".0. (By Wireless to
SeyWllc.) French attacks on the Ger
.nan positions on the eastern sloe of
Dead Man's Hill and adjoining lines in
the region of Verdun were repulsed last
night afie-r tenacious fighting, says an
official announcement.
Oil the Russian front, the statement
idtls, four more Russians cannon were
captured and S03 prisoners were taker
Inst nigrt by the German troops south
of Maiocz Lake.
Though the Sinn Feiners
Are Surrendering i n
Large Numbers Fighting
is Still doing On in Dub
lin Streets
IN OTI1KK
'LACKS
R LULLS DISBANDING
Some of Captured Leaders
Are Advising Followers
in Other Parts of the
Country to Give Up Hope
less Fight
After Three. Day Hearing,
Reclamation Commission
Announces it Will Recom
mend Cut in Cost to -fW
L'er Acre
ACT MAY PRLSAGE
FURTIIKR SAVING
Commission, Which Held for
Addition, Rather Than
Reduction, Won Over by
laical Delegates to Con
cede Principle
(Special to The Republican)
WASHINGTON, April 30. After
snd qualify the action with a state
ment that the declaration is to re
main in effect pending a final agre?
ment over the principles involved.
There is no indication whether such
actien would meet with the approval
of the United States.
It was intimated at the state de
partment soon after the American
rote was dispatched, however, that
the United States might consent to
further negotiations in the event of
Germany declaring rnd effecting what
the United States demands. It was,
however, made known that the de
mands would have to be acceeded to
first.
There Is no definite Information
here regarding the time when n reply
may be expected.
The Full Submarine Program
ROTTERDAM, April 30. 12:45 p. m.
The captain of the Dutch ship Br
Velestrom, which was sunk in the
North Sea April 23 by- a German
submarine. Is quoted by the Nieuw
Roltcrdamsche Courant as declarin
that the commander of the unders-.vj
boat told him the Germans intend to
sink all ships of every nationality
carrying food to England.
Why Kul El Amara Fell
AMSTERDAM, April 30. (Via Lon
don 12:40 p. m.) German newspapers
at'ril ut the fall cif Kut-El-Amara says
i te'egrem from Berlin to the prepor!
ne? mode by the late Field Marshall
Bnror. von DerGoltz. who died at the
Turxish headquarters April 19.
The Vospiche Zcitung considers, the
surrender of Kut-El-Amara the heavi
est blow so far struck against England.
A Norwegian Sunk
LONDON, May 1. 1:50 a, m Th
Norwegian steamer Mod hag been
rink according to Lloyd's. She was
a vessel of 633 tons and was owned
In Chrlstianla.
heavy bombardments, both by day and
night. Our military observers esti
mated that at one time German shells
fell at the rate of twenty-five rounds
per minute.
"Exceptionally heavy artillery fire
was directed on two craters, occupied
by detachments of one of our Van
couver battalions. So intense and
prolonged was the bombardment that
many of the garrison were killed and
few escaped Injury. Men, guns and
rifles were buried, dug out and buried
again in the mud. Soon there was no
cover even for the wounded. When
the bombardment ceased strong par
ties of Germans advanced, waist deep
in mud.
"The few survivors of our garrison
could offer little resistance. The
nearest crater to th& enemy was com
manded by Lieutenant Biggs. His
few unwounded were ordered to make
for a crater on the left. The Germans
turned a machine gun on them and
only five got through
Reward of Merit
BERLIN, April 30. I!y Wireless to
Sayville.) Emperor William has con
ferred the military order "Pour Le
Merite" on First Lieutenant Buddecko
a German aviator ir, the Turki.-.h ser
vice. The lieutenant his distinguish
ed himself in bringing down r.everal
hostile aeroplanes.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
fl.'Hl.IN, April 2!. (Via London
April 30.) Rumors of stern action by
the troops against the postoffue, the
Sinn Feiners' stronghold, spread
around the city this morning. It would
have been possible to bombaid t'.tv
place at any time, but it was con
sidered un-lesiiable to destroy a build
ing which had just been renovated by
the government. Buildings in Sack
vill street, all around the postoffice.
have been burned. Although it
impossible lo obtain an estimate
the damage, ii can be placed conser
vatively at something more tlinn
$2,000.mW.
The prisoners taken by the troops
cr.n be dealt with under the provis
ions of the military law unless the
government decides on leniency. Cor
respondents who are assembled in tho
Nortlnvall quarter were unable to
conMnnnicite this morning with head
quarters. Officers returninCyfrom the
lighting reported everything much
ui'-tcr than for several days and con
firmed lb? belief that the military
have the situation well in hand.
From the roof of the correspondent's
hotel, many fires could be observ?d
mostly in central Dublin. The hotel
is :.ept tinj r a c-. nstp.nl fire -by
concealed snipefs from both the north
and south.
The soldiers reply whenever they
see the flash of a rifle, but the loca
tion of the snipers had not been d
covered up to noon. .
All the houses around Northwa'l
were cleared of men last night by the
troop who rounded them up and
kept them ;t; custody until daybreak.
Filing wen', on, however, as briskly
as ever.
commission to hold out for payment
in full as charged, is the opinion of
Secretary C. A. Van der Veer of the
Water Users' association. He was
asked concerning the dispatch from
Washington last night, and he re
plied that tiie $382.0110 conceded by the
tomrrission was made up of charges
as follows:
For sluicing tunnel gates $249,000
For Washington office ex 100,000
For O'Lourke equipment 15,000
1 For Hill meters 15,000
T The local cost review board. It will
be recalled, made a split report. The
majority, consisting of Chairman Tay
lor and F. A. Jones, recommended a cut
of 53,000,000.
The minority report, submitted by
Frank W. Ii:.nna recommended a cut
of (100,000.
The central review board disregard
ed both reports from the local board
f review and recommended a cut of
a $3l2,000. embracing the items secured
three days' hearing with delegates from n. the local delegation at Washington
the Salt River Valley Water Users' yesterday.
association, the Reclamation Commis- Thp reclamation commission then
sion announced today that it would j f..lst .lsjlle an reports and announced
recommend the approval by the Secre- jita lie.lif.f tnat tnt. farmers ,ould pay
tary of the Interior of the report on ,P fun assessed cost, together with
the Salt River project by the Central . sarne jsoo.OOO additional. It was to
i oast Review board. Tins eliminates
i
Troop Ships Arrive
OTTAWA, tint, April 30. It was
officially announced today that thj
troop ships Scandinanvian, which sail
ed from Canada April 17 and the Mis-
sanabie which salle-d on April IS have
arrived safely In England with nearly
3.00.1 officer and men.
Threat Agair.st Greek Railway
ATHENS, April 30. (Via London.)
Replying to the protest from Berlin
against the transportation of Serbian
soldiers over Greek railways the Greek
i . . ti j ipoveinment has informed Germany,
Lienutenant Biggs and one or two '
ithers were quickly overpowered by 1 (Continued on Page Six)
CONGO TO BE HELD FOR BELGIUM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HAVRE. April 30. The Belgian
government has received through the
French minister a declaration under
which France, Great Britain and Rus
sia guarantee the Integrity of the Bel
gian Congo.
SPEAKING FOR METHODISM
CRANSTON'S AGAINST MR
$3X2,000 of the total cost of the pro
ject as unnecessary expenditure from
which no benefit was derived.
The view of the commission as orig
inally expressed to the waters users'
association were that no part of the
i ost could be abated unless in account-
is ilng could be shown. The contention
of! of the representatives of the associa
tion has been that any unnecessary or
unwarranted expenditures should be
eliminated from the amount to be re
paid the government by the water
users. As the chief item In the amount
now recommended for elimination is
the cost of the gates in the sluicing
tuincl, at the Roosevelt dam, which
have been practically abandoned as of
no use to the project ( it is felt that
the principle contended for by the
association has been conceded.
The commission's decision will be
formulated in writing tomorrow and
will be taken to the secretary, who will
protest agair.st this that the delegates
vent to Washington.
PITTSBURG WALKING-
STRIKE IS CALLED
Presumably on Report of
the American Conterees
That Mexicans are Insist
ing Upon the Withdrawal
of American Troops
MEANWHILE MORE
CROSS TIIE LINE
CI en. Obregon Called Upon
by His Government Re
garding Statement He
Has Sufficient Force to
Expel Americans
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIT TSBl'RG, April 30. A strike of
meet ear men w hich will tie up all ,
lines in the citv and suburbs as well as
ipterurlmn lines in the Beaver valley;
was ordered at midnight by T. J. Ward,
president of the local union after ne
gotiations between the men and offi-
! rials of the Pittsburg Railway com
! pany had broken off. It was expected
that the trai'tion system of the city
would be at a standstill by two o'clock
tomorrow morning.
The strike affects 2.200 conductors
and motormen and about 800 other
employes. The men asked for a maxi
mum wage of 36 cents an hour an in
be urged to make further substantial ) CIease of six cents, while President
reductions clong the lines set forth in
the report cf the local board.
The majority report of the local coRt
review board recommended the elim
ination of items aggregating over three
millions: while the minority report
conceded reductions of over six hun
dred thousand dollars. Both amounts
were disregarded by the central board,
whose members agreed on $382,000 as
the- proper reduction. The reclamation
commission set aside both reports and
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., April 30. Mexican
anl American conferees over the dis
position of the American forces in
Mexico marked time today while Gen
erals Hugh Scott and Frederick Fun
ston awaited word from Washington
as to the next step to be taken in the
negotiations with General Obregon.
The report of the American repre
sentatives on the first conference
went forward by wire early this
morning. On the answer of Presi
dent Wilson and Secretaries Lansing
and Baker to its recommendations de
pends the future status of the con
ference. In the meantime the following facts
developed: That to date the appar
ent intention of the Washington gov
ernment to keep General Pershing's
columns in Mexico has not been
changed.
That General Obregon in yesterday's
conference served no sort of notice on
Generals Scott and Funston that could
be construed as an ultimatum de
manding immediate withdrawal.
That the. desire of the de facto gov
ernment ror withdrawal was again
J. D. Callery was willing to grant them ) stited but that the only discussion
only 32 cents.
AN EXPERIENCED SKY PILOT
KING'S SON REJOINS NAVY
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
LONDON. April 30 Prince Albert,
Republican A. P. Leated Wire j want to keep this nation out of the
SARATOGA SPRINGS. N. Y., April European ImhrogUa.
?0 Assurance that Methodists of thei "We Methodists do not believe that
United States were in sympathy with it is patriotic for a few Americans to
President Wilson's efforts to keep the j insist upon their technical rights to,
United States from becoming involved travel at sea in such a -ime as this,
in the European war was voiced here j for personal reasons, as the risk of
today by Bishop Earl Cranston of ; bringing the hdrror and desolations of
Washington, D. C. Bishop Cranston
who will open the twenty-seventh gen
eral conference of the Methodist Epis
copal church here tomorrow was ad
dressing a preliminary service.
"I would assure the president of the
United States," said Rev. Mr. Cran-
war upon millions of their fellow
Americans."
During his address Bi&hop Cran
ston endorsed the plan proposed for
the union of the northern and south
ern branches of the church, which is
to be considered by the conference.
Steadily Closing In
LONDON. April 30. "The situation
in Dublin has improved considerably
today but the rebels still were offer
ing serious resistance in the neigh
borhood of Sackville street," said a
statement irsued bv Field Marshal
French at 11:30 o'clock last night.
"The cordon of troops encircling this
quarter, however, was steadily closing
In, but hou:e to house fighting neces
sarily rendered the progress slow
The postoffice and the block of build
ings east of Sackville street have been
destroyed by fire. A party of rebels
has been driven out of Roland's mills,
in Ring's Fnd, by gun mounted on
Motor lorries, (ine of the rebel lead
ers, a man named Pearse is report" J
wounded in the leg. A report re
ceived stated that Pearse had sur
rendered unconditionally, and that he
asserted h? had been authorized to
accept the same terms eif surrender
for his followers in Dublin. Another
leader, James Connolly, has been re
ported killed.
"The Four Courts district which
still is hehl by the rebels is also sur
rounded by a cordon of police which
sridually is closing in. All informa
tion points to the conclusion that the
rebellion in Dublin is on the verge of
a collapse. A considerable number of
rebels are prisoner in military camps.
"Reports this evening from the rest
of Ireland, are generally satisfactory.
The conditions at Beliast and Ulster
are normal and the situation at Lon
donderry is stated to be quite satis
factory. The district within 15 miles
of Galway also is reported normal,
added to tin total book cost bringing I which he was engaged alone with
up the acre cost to JiM. It is from the j twenty-six German machines, of
last action that the commission has j which five were forced to the ground,
now receded and agreed to accept the ; He himself was obliged to land pre
reduction a fixed by the central board 1 cipitately on two occasions, February
and which e-oncedes the principle ; 21 and 22, but saved himself by his
that some reduction is permissible j skill as a pilot.
along this line was regarding the ad
visability of an American retirement.
That there was considerable discus
sion of the possibility cf effective
American and Mexican cooueration in
Republican A. P. Leased Wire lhR , ,Hjratin nf firnttPred Villi
PARIS, April 30. Adjutant Urbain bandit groups
Guignand, pilot in the French flying ' That thre is a strong possibiliiv
corps, has just been mentioned in the ,. ...j,, hp nntv - mnre co!1fPr.
ence held that depending on the
wi.iheg of the Washington govern-
orders of the duv after havinir nar- 1
Iticipated in sixteen air combats in
in other words that not every dollar
of the hook cost was necessary and
therefore had to be repaid.
The delegates mentioned are Presi
dent urme, Legal Advisor Kinney ana , inss ,,f the federal reserve banks.
consulting h-ngineer Jones, who met
in Washington for tiie commencement
of the hearing last Monday.
That the farmers of Salt River val
ley may well be jubilant over the en-
; ment.
That, while the present negotiations
: are proceeding, shipments of supplies
to the American expedition's front are
going forward uninterruptedly,
j From stray bits of information that
j became known today it appears that
i yesterday's conference ended with tna
EARNINGS Question of withdrawal of the United
, States troops still uppermost in the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , minds of the Mexican conferees. Thev
WASHINGTON, April 30. Earn- i are understood to have tried to im-
it press on the American representatives
was announced today, were $755,707 ; their claim that political conditions in
gross, and $257,667 net for the first Mexico aro such that they cannot be
FEDERAL RESERVE
terii g wedge that has been driven into and San Francisco reserve banks lost
the recent decision of the Reclamation money during the quarter.
uart'er of 1916, or at the yearly rate of responsibl? for any eventualities that
1.3 per cent on an average paid in msy result from continued occupation
capital of $54,000,000. The St. Louis of Mexican soil by the American
second son 'of King George who has ' ton, "that whatever temporary back-! The conference will determine the
been undergoing a long course of treat- ! sliding may happen when a few Meth- j policies of government for twenty-four
ment for a gastric disorder, has com
pletely recovered and shortly will re
odlsts here or yonder may fall under million members of the Methodist church
the spell of a magnetic political leader, (enrolled in 15,000 parishes tnrougn-
the navy.
sympathy with President Wilson and
ume his duties ns a mldxhlnmnn i the meat bedv of our neoDle are in full :' out the world. Nine hundred delegates,
comprising an equal uivisioii vi cms,
and laymen, have been chosen during
the last year by 132 annual conferences
in Europe, Asia, Africa and North and
South America to participate in the
If Only a Tithe Were Given
To The Cause of Missions
RUING
I T DS
Bl TROOPS 0
F
(Continued on Page Five)
' o ,
German Officers
Among The Dead
Sinn Feiners
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON, April 30. Discus
sions outlining effective means for
awakening the latent forces of the
churches of the United States, and
stimulating missionary work at home
ind abroad, brought to a close tonight
the national congress of the laymen's
missionary movement which has been
In session here since Wednesday.
J. Campbell White, president of
Wcoster college and former secretary
of the laymen's missionary movement,
described the "Immeasurable human
in crder that an adequate program
might be carried out. "This country
is now called a billion dollar country,"
he said. "We could spend that amount
on church work If protestant church
members gave a tenth of their income.
They are giving perhaps $350,000,000 to
all church expenses a'ld fifty million
to missions."
Pointing out that there were today
only 9,677 men and women represent
ing the protestant churches In the mis
rlonary fields, Mr. White said Canada,
without the population or resources of
New York state had sent 3.000.000
and material resources In the United J men to the war and that the United
Slates, controlled by church members," . Siatep could well afford to send that
which he declared rhould be awakened j many to the mission fields.
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
LONDON, April 30. Three passen-
dcliberations of this gathering which Irjf(h Ma steumer ha(, a oppi)rrunty
Is the world-wide legislative body of , obsprve the Ritllfltinn ,n ,-,,, ,
the Methodist Episcopal church. Among R ..,. eglr,1nv 0in u-.n
in the day the lull in the fighting, they
the non-clergical delegates are a few
women who have been eligible for mem
bership since 1900. The meeting will
last four weeks.
In the opinion of leading members,
this conference by the nature
of the questions to be submitted for
action, will be the most important since
the first delegated Methodist assem
blage was held in New York City in
3812. Many of the delegates come
from Germany, Austria Hungary, Bul
grwla Fiance and Russia.
. The mission fields in the Far East,
where political change of great im
portance have occurred since the last
conference will be reported by bishops,
Missionaries and native workers who
said, was attributed to a shortage in
the rebels' munitions. The sound of
heavy artillery and machine gun fire
was distinctly heard as the ship cast
off from Kingstown.
A young officer living near Dublin
told of circumstantial reports of the
finding of the bodies of two German
officers with the rebel dead in Sack
ville street.
"When I left Dublin 6 o'clock Sat
urday evening," a traveler said, "al
most all of Sackville street had been
burned, and Henry street, adjacent,
was razed by the military's hand grenades.
Nelson's Pillar, opposite the post-
republican A. P. Leated Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, NAMI-!
QUIPA, April 30. (Via Wireless to
Columbus, N. M., April 30.) Columns
of American cavalry have been active
today running down fugitive Villistas.
Like men of iron they have been rid
ing relentlessly through the mountain
wildernesses of the continental divide.
It is known here that General J. J.
Pershing, the expeditionary com
mander, is pleased with the results
obtained and that many valuable re
ports have been made to the American
military authorities. However, it is
pointed out that this information is of
such importance that its nature now
cannot be made public. Colonel George
A. Dodd, who with a cavalry detach
ment defeated a large Villista force in
the rocky canyons of the Sierra Ma
dres about a week ago, reached here
today from Minaca, his base, and held
a long conference with CJeneral Per
shing. No statement was made fol
lowing the meeting.
The American troops are now con
centrated at strategic points along the
I line of communication from Columbus,
j N. M., to the front, and the Carranza
forces that have been gathering near
Guerrero have manifested a desire to
co-operate with them in every possi
ble way.
columns.
They are said also to have laid
stress on the fact that the position of
the Carranza government would be
extremely delicate if the expeditionary
movement was not ended.
In view of the already exrressel
attitude of the Americans that thev
! were unable to discuss any other
j question than the cooperation of the
two armies in dispersing the various
bandit bands, the next step was to
' I attempt to reach a basis on which
tured and executed. Among the exe- ; both sides might meet. (
cuted were Colonel Jose Reyes, Colonel ( Tn some quarters tonight there was
Jesus Hernandez and Captain Lorenzo . a disposition to believe that the con
Ortega. ; ferenee will deal with the question of
"Six armed Villistas surrendered to withdrawal, but that, so far as the
General Marrero at Jefatua and were American conferees are concerned the
granted amnesty. ; suhlect will be approached with re-,
An ex-Villista colonel, a major and serve u js pointe(1 out tnat the
twenty men surrendered to Colonel bas ppen 0 uisposition sntnvn v th
I COUNTRIES
Ganzales at Parras.
American government to consider the
mission of General Pershing's columns,
as having been ended.
In these circles it is argued that the.
United States might consent to relin-,
quish the chase of the Villista ban-,
el its to the forces of the de facto gov-y
ernmenr, dui tnat. pending a sue-.
A Minor Event
PRESIDIO. Tex.. April 30. Colonel
Riojas has sent a message to the mil
itary authorities here stating that
Captain Telesfero Dominguez, with a
detachment of fifty men, routed Vil-
lunildm In 1 fieri, t Villnnnavn .1 n ,1 I
nine men were killed and six wounded. ! TM completion of this task by the,
Three prisoners and a number of rifles . "ra"s- would insist on a par
and horses were taken by Colonel j tial "l"'" of tn" tat of Chihua
Riojas. I (Continued on Page Three)
will also give an accounting of their office, used by the rebels as a refuge,
labors. was also destroyed by six-inch guns."
. Carranzistai Also Busy
EL PASO, Tex., April 30. Further
dispersal of Villista and other bandit
forces was reported to General Jacincto
Trevino from points in the states of
Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Coahuila
and Chihuahua today. General Trevino
Is in Juarez at present, participating
with General Obregon in the conference
with Generals Scott and Funston.
His reports included the following:
"Carranza troops defeated thirty
bandits near the station of General Ze
peda, between Parras and Saltillo, after
a running fight. The leader, Elias
Perez, and one man escaped. The re
mainder were either killed or cap-
Austrian Fishermen Taken j
In Net of Northern Indians
Republican A. P. Leased Wire puted waters.
BELLING HAM. Wash., April 30. A j George Ivanowitch, an Austrian fish
band of armed Lummi Indians cap- I erman, said he had received a tele
tured eight Austrian fishermen today phone message last night from the
in Hale's Pass, Puget Sound, and took j commissioner giving the Austrians
them to Lummi Island, where the fish- ! permission to fish in Hale's Pass.
ermen tonight were held as prisoners,
The Indians seized the fishermen's
boat and their nets. Because the land
on which the prisoners were held is
part of the Lummi Indian reservation
and under federal jurisdiction the state
officials said they were unable to res
cue the prisoners.
The capture of the fishermen was.
the climax eif a series of clashes be
tween the Indians and the whites over
fishing privileges in Hale's Pass. The
Indians claimed the sole right to fish
in the Pass, but the state fish com
mission and the state attorney held
that the whites may fish in the dis-
Thereupon Capt. A. Costilanovich,
with seven fishermen, started out in
his boat. The Indians at first made no
hostile demonstration, but sent a rep
resentative to Bellingham this morn
ing to consult counsel.
This afternoon a band of Lummis,
armed with rifles, made a sudden de
scent upon the invaders. Surrounded,
without hope of escape. Captain Costi
lanovich decided to surrender. He and
his seven men, their boat and tackle
were taken to the w:and and kept
under guard. The federal authorities
will be appealed to tomorrow to affect
the release of the captured fishermen.
