CITY
EDITION
ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL
nniiTV-SKVKXTU YEAR.
VOL '-. 81-
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, MONDAY, MAY 1, 1916,
CITY
EDITION
RfSH REPUBLIC
COLLAPSES MD
ITS PRESIDE!
"AYS SURRENDER
Principal Leaders Lay
Down Arms and Issue Proc
tarnation, Bands Keep Up
Conflict.
THE WEATHER
TIIK WKATIIKIl FOI1I.CAST.
Denver, April 30. New Mexico:
Monday unsettled with local rains and
not co cold rust portion; Tuesday fair
In west, clearing unci wurmcr east
portion.
I HIGH Tlfir OF iRFUm T I FflnCRQ
muii iiuuui IILIULI LLnULIIU
PROSPERITY -'IS SURRENDER Hi
Dully by Carrier or Mall, BOO
n Mouth. Single Copies, 54
LOCAL YKATUEK REFORJF.
For twenty-four hours, urting at
8 p. m. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, 72 degrees;
mlnlmurti, 39 degrees; range, 33 de
gress; temperature at 6 p. m., 44 dp
green; east wind; cloudy.
FOOD SITUATION IS
BECOMING DESPERATE
No' One Allowed to Enter
Dublin Except on Passes
Issued by Highest Authori
ties; Sniping Continues,
rar monin4 journal paeuu. iaro wink,
Kingston. Irrluiid, April 30 (Via
London, May 1, 1:1'5 a. in.) The
main body of the Sinn Fein rebels in
Dublin surrendered during the course
of the day.
There was. however, considerable
fighting throughout Sunday, in Dub
lin unci lm suburbs. U wan specially
severe at Halls bridge, outside Dub-fment of a permanent national gov-
lin. j eminent, representatives of the whole
The rebel In the College of Kur- people of Ireland and elected by thg
geons mil-rendered this morning, tine j suffrage of all her men und women,
of the prisoners taken here was the J the provisional government hereby
by the destruction of the Irish peo
ple.
"In every generation the Irish peo
ple have asserted their right to na
tional freedom and sovereignty. Six
times during the past three hundred
years tlicy have asserted it in arms.
Standing on that fundamental right
und again asserting It in arna in the
face of the world, we hereby proclaim
the Irish republic as a sovereign in
dependent state and we pledge out
lives and the lives of our comrades In
arms to the cause of Its freedom, its
welfare and its exultation among na
tions. "The Irish republic Is entitled to,
and hereby claims, the allegiance of
every Irishman and Irishwoman. The
republic guarantees religious and civil
liberty, equal rights and equal oppor
tunities to all Its citizens und de
clares its resolve to pursue the hap
piness and prosperity of the whole
nation equally and oblivious of the
differences carefully fostered by an
alien government, which have divid
ed the minority from the majority in
the past.
'Tnti! our arms have brought the
PREVAILING IN
UNITED STATES
OUTBREAK II
BE
ENDED SOQIM
ported entrenched hi Ktmiseorlhy, ,
but the police still are holding out.
nun roans it ml runways are clear to
within four miles of the town. The
damage done to Harrow bridge on
(lie Dublin & Southwestern railway
Is not serious."
CONNOLLY SHOT. HI T
NOT FATULY, In Itl'.l'OKT
Monthly Report to Federal Re
serve, Board Tells of Excel
lent Business Conditions in
All Sections,
MANUFACTURED GOODS
IN GREAT-DEMAND
Even in South Cotton Is Be
ing Purchased Rapidly and
Outlook Is Regarded as Excellent,
lV MORNINOI JOURNAL SPECIAL. LIAtIO WIM1
Washington, April 30. The. month
ly survey and business conditions
throughout the country reported to
the federal reserve board by agents
in each reserve district and made
Irish Countess Who Shot Sol
dier at Entrance of Dublin
Castle Is Reported Taken
Prisoner,
707 REBECS CAPTURED,
SAYS BRITISH REPORT
London, April 30 (11:33 p. tn.)--Tile
bullet which struck Junic Con
nolly, one of the rebel leaders, passed
through a thigh bone and broke It,
say a telegram to the Central News
fKoro Dublin. Connolly was tu the
general postoffiee when wounded.
VIi:itN ACTION HV UtOOl'K
AT DI HI IN POSTOI I ICF.
Ill
IN
WASHINGTON Oil
Insurrectionists in Other Sec
tions of Ireland Are Told to
Stop Fighting and Yield toi
Government.
public tonight shows that thu uros-
f'PPortutic moment for the establish- j peiity continued to Increase during
Countess Markleviez,
Agree? to Surrender,
The proclamation issued by Provis
ional President Peace advising the
surrender of all the rebels, follows:
"n order to prevent thejfurther
slaughter of unarmed people, and in
the hope of saving the lives of our
followers, who are surrounded, and
hopelessly outnumbered, the mem
bers of the provisional government at
headquarters have agreed to uncon
ditional surrender, and the command
ers of all the units of the republican
forces will order the followers to lay
down their arms., t Signed)
"fEARCE."
May Not Knil Fighting.
Although the principal leaders of
the rebel movement have laid down
their nrns and HOised their follow-f-ew-.-
f1 "(!-,. ' n-.,r uncWu13nar
surrender, there is no doubt that
there will bo still great difficulty In
restoring peace In. -Dublin and the!
surrounding districts, for numerous
small bunds of rebels evidently have
nut received the leaders' orders, or
doubt the authenticity of the orders,
April In virtually ever section of the
Cnited Stales, especially In eastern
manufacturing centers. A synopsis ' Dublin
(V MOSNINt JOUHHAL (SKIAL V.MASD WHIM)
London, April HO (8:6 'p. ni.)An-
other official statement issued tonight
by tho Ilritlsh prexs bureau said;
"Messengers have been sent from
the lender nf th, ttiii.liii ".i.i.,.iu tn i
other rebel l ,!;,n,,- r-i .... i enufirinod . the belief that th,
ford. Louth and Dublin counties or-jhil lh' -n ".
.lerlm, l.n, . .r.,.,l ' ro,r ' r''f "f the correspond-
I viurj iimi i, iiiuiiy uit'f t'nuiti M mi
P'Tved, moHtly in central Duplin. The
i h"? :ilWr,Pd. ,"0 KltulUi0" 1,1 1 well concealed snipers from both the
Dublin, April I'll (Via London, April
SO.) Humore of stern action by the
troops against the postoffiee, the Sinn
Fcluers' stronghold, spread around
the clly this morning. It would have
been possible to bombard the place at
any lime, but it was considered un
desirable to destroy a building which
Im-.l Just been renovated by the gov
ernment. I bindings in Hackvllle
street, nil around the postoffiee, have
been burned. Although It is linmn-
slbie t,i obtain im eMtoniil ;,f tltf
damage, It can be placed conserva
tively at something more than Si,-
000.000.
Th prisoners taken by the troops
can be dealt with under the provis
ions of military law unless the gov
ernment decides on leniency. Corre
spondents who are assembled In the
Northnil quarter were unable to com
municate this morning with head
quarters Officers returning from
the fighting reported everything much
quieter than for several days and
military
The text of tho statement follows;
The general commanding officer in I
constituted, will administer the civil
and military affairs of the republic
In trust of the people.
"We place the cuuso of the Irish
republic under the protection of the
Most High God, whose blessing we
Invoke upon our arms, and' we pray
that no one who serves t hat cause
will dishonor it by cowardice, inhu
manity or rapine. in this supreme
hour, the Irish nation must by its
valor and discipline, and by the read
iness of its children to sacrifice them
selves for the common good, prove
Itself worthy of the aogust destiny
to which it is called.
"Signed in behalf of the provisional
government. Thomas J, s Clark, S.
Macdiarmad, Thomas MacDonagh, J.
H. Pearce; K. C, Cenant, James Con
nolly, Joseph 1'lunkett"
iijsir-AMi:i!icAx.s
TILXK TIIK KAISKH
Xew York, April 30. Several thous
and men and women of Irish birth or
sympathies, who attended mass meet
ings here tonight under the auspices
and have, at any rate, determined tojof tho United Irish societies, passed
continue guerrilla warfare,
Dublin is filled with small bands
located in Staunchhouse and other
buildings, who hove always been able
to escape Jiy subterranean passages
im soon as the attack of the soldiers
j resolutions of sympathy for the Dub
lin revolutionists and thanked Ger
many for extending to Ireland as lar
as the present military situation will
permit the same kind of aid as was
has nrov-PH r,. strong ,l ..n then ! m,uere tM "uanl American re
r-onene,i h,.Mtm,i00 rr.,m .,... .,nv. ! Pu,'c h.v France." The hope was ex
)actd quarter.
Situation SUll Dangerous.
pressed that Germany's nid would be
come enlarged to an extent, that Ire-
l,i, irl fviii.hr I,. w.n.itrniwil it lipllitr.
Hal ine summon in J.iunun waeront and an ally of the central pow
of the survey by districts, follows:
Hoston: Ilusiness continues to im
prove; comparison with a year ago
ehow.s that in many cases the im
provement is extreme.
Xew York: The volume of goods
produced and Bold last month was
probably greater than In any March
on record.
Philadelphia: Trade is brisk; prices
are rising; manufacturing plants are
working to capacity.
Cleveland: Earnings of steel com
panies and concerns in kindred lines
continue at an unprecedented late.
Atlanta: General conditions arc
unchanged: outlook for future condi
tions favorable. There is u gradual
selling of the cotton crop. Manufac
turers are working full time and many
are behind on orders.
Chicago: . Money Is n hardening
silghlly. 'Manufacturer ' and whole
sale merchants are enjoying good bus
iness. Fall wheat condition is report
ed to be unsatisfactory in many locali-
much more satlf factory.
iiirougnoui ine country thr was i
much more to be done, which would I .
north and south.
The soldiers reply whenever they
... . . . , ... .... i nt " uiinil Hi il 4 ill", t'lll til- lucu-
Ifllrf. Hit, lm l,n,.i1 ll.nl 41. n. 1.....1. t
.' ,,. , ' '! . , "u,Rtlon of the snipers had not been dis-1
of the rebellion had been broken. ,(.Vered up to noon.
Order.,! o Surrender. All the houses around Northall
Last night messengers were sent ! were clou retl of men lust night by the
scon ifIB nil ARE
s
FROM
URTHER CONFERENCES
OBREGON WANTS AMERICANS
WITHDRAWN; NO PURPOSE
TO COMPLY AT THIS TIME
Effort Made by Mexican Generals to Have Pershing's Col
umn Return to United States Soil Meets With No Appar
ent Success; Intimation That Carranza's' Government Is
Being Compromised and Embarrassed Is Said to Have
Been Given; No Indication Either in El Paso or Juarez
That Crisis Has Been Reached, Principals Being Seem
ingly Confident That Agreement Will Be Reached; ' Only
One More Meeting Is Thought Likely to Take Place; Sup
plies Are Being Sent Southward From Columbus; First
Chief's War Minister Denies Sensational .Stories Pub
lished in Certain Newspapers of United States; Calles
Returns to Agua Prieta. . i . .
American conferees over the dlsposl-
out. from the rebel leaders in Dublin ; troops who rounded up and kept ihem ' tloa of the American forces in Mexico
to the, rebel bodies In Oahvay, Clare, 1 In custody until daybreak. Firing
Wexford, Louth and Dnbjln counties, I went on, however, as briskly ns ever.
ordering them to surrender nnd priests
and the. royal Irish eonstahi.hirv n,e lLI.I.IN ItKYOLl TIONISTS
(By Morning Journal Special Lrawii Wiie.) '
Kl Paso, April SO,- Mexican alidjlng that lh:-re had btfit po let-up la
doing their utmost :o diisemlnato this
Information.
"As regards the situation In Dublin,
rebels from the areas of Sackvllle
street, the postoffiee nnd the Four
Courts are surrendering freely. More
Incendiary fires took place in Sack
vilie street last night, but the fire bri
gade Is now able to resume work.
707 Ii'lsoi!er Taken.
, "It. Is. further r,orted that up to
the present 707 prisoners have been
taken. Included in these is the Coun
tess Afarklcvica.
Tile rehels at r.nniscoithv are re
issi i: m:v .siArr.it
London. April 80 ( H : r, 5 p. m,) A
Dublin dispatch to the press ussocia-
marked time today while Generals
floott and Frederick Ktinstnn awaited
word from Washington as to tho next
step to be taken in tho negotiation
with General Ohregon.
The report of the American repre
sentatives on the first conference
went forward by wire early this moni
tion, dated Saturday, says that the lug. On tho answer of President Wll
Pinn lpeinei-M are Issuing a tiewspa- son mid Hecrelnrles Lansing nnd
per describing the progress of the rc-1 Maker to its recommendations de
volt and containing "army orders." , pends the future status of the v-
It ference.
. i
the southward rush of snnnlj,. fop
General Pershlugy men, boUtered up
this belief. Kronr the Columbus, base
it was learned that nine truck' load
of ordnance had hern siiirtel for Cfi
sas OriindoH ami that other prepare,- v
Hons were being matfo.thnt would In
dlcaie a ciMiiinuunee bf the Anieih-aJ
troop on Mexican soil.' Many other
shipments havo been going south dul
ly, it was waitl, including-1 much him- ; ,
bi-r fur th erc-fl",, e , .icutv?
bi ddings sntf torn f i.ii.ib ;ui '; '.Yv ri , .
Pair ft bridges. ;
,-0. I l-ISIs HI .c;o(uf j
J ( iu!,."-ii,il
or -i an 1 1 t to iii.ii-
Tbei,, Is noil
of eli her - l .'J, l'iil'
ties. Decreased wheat crops in pros- j p,,rted to be still i possession of Ibis
ers, her civil authority and military
rights asserted and a place secured
for her in the congress of the na
tions which will settle the terms of
peace."
Mention of the names of John Hed
mill regarded as ilanucmus .Sundav
'veiling, despite surrender of a ma
jority of the rebels, was Indicated by
iii tact mat rew persons were per-;
mltted to. penetrate into the city j
through the rigid military cordon!
winch surrounds it. A number of pn-1 , . ,
Il.'r. . rn . ... . u i iiioiiii, leaner oi ine iii"u naiuumiir.,
vent to nun, I0"', n?"Wn' ,Wh and Sir Kdwa.d Carson brought forth
Z t, , i n "! thC F ll,llforma- h?Vt "! u.li,-i,.-e. while
anee JZ , ?M"?t '7 " T reference to Sir Hoger Casement
No on . w ','n by ?e TT"- cheerin.
lth an wr n '1 7 IV, l' A. Spelll.ssj. pn sldcnl of the
without written permission from the' , , 1 ,. ,u ,,,,
highest Huihoriir -n.! .1 iv ot United Irish societies, called the meet-
his own risk. Moreover, the people ilnK to (jrlpr-
re warned that this risk is consid
erable, as stray bulk-ts are likely to
meet the visitor from some unexpect
ed quarter.
Food Vci-v Scant.
The food situation In Dublin is pre
carious. Thirtv-four free food depots
were opened Sunday, stocked for the
most part with food commandeered
fiern various places by the militia.
The fod is being doled out in tiny
I'lrtiotis after right .xnminatlon Inio
the necessities of the applicants. Food I
slso is very short in Kingston, audi
many of the necessaries of life cannot j
obtained at any juice
An appeal wa made to "Hie gen
erous, broad-minded and liberty-loving
American people to give Ireland
their active sympathy and moral sup
port and their strong condemnation
of tho ruthless reign of terrorism and
massacre which England has already
announced her determination lo en
force lu that country."
It was asserted that Ireland's inde
pendence was necessary to set ore the
freedom of the seas for the peaceful
commerce of the world.
'I.OCLAMATIOX OF
UFPI BLIC OF
MorgeiiUiau Has Appendicitis,
X.-W York, April 30. Harry Mor
geilthau, former ambassador to Tnr
I key, was stricken with appendicitis
llFLANl)at'ti,s home here today- His physi
cians said tonight that, his condition
was not serious and that he probably
would not have to undergo an operation.
pect, Volume of general business
continues high.
St. Louis; This district is in excel
lent business condition, Producers
and manufacturers are operating to
capacity, shipments of merchandise
show large increases and the buying
power of the general public has In
creased. Minneapolis: Wholesale and re
tail trade Is prosperous mid indus
trial conditions oro excellent. Grain j
territory will phnw n 10 per cent re
duction in wheat acreage for
Planting will be two weeks late, but a
good crop is looked for as conditions
appear favorable.
Kansas City: Crop conditions have
seldom been better at this season.
Car shortage has' been somewhat re
lieved. There are no labor disturb
ances. Price records continue to be
broken at all' stock markets of Hie dis
trict. There appears to be no cessa
tion In the volume of business.
Dallas: Ruins have revived bad
ness, which was inclined to lie slug
gish. In the southwestern section,
where no rain fell, some cattle are j
dying and unless rains come, condi
tions will soon be verloils. Cotton is
about all marketed. Activity in the
oil fields has Increased about f0 per
cent over last year. General trade
conditions are good and labor is lnh
much demand.
San Francisco: Lumber prices are
qp $3 to $3 per thousand feet and or
ders are greater than mill capacity.
Acute shortage has caused unparal
leled activity in shipbuilding. Trade
and financial condition atlpenr to be
excellent.
CAVALRYMEN II
Place and a mixed column of cavalry. 1
Infantry and artillery has been sent I
from Wexford with n view- of engaging j
urn iciieis. 1 tie latest, information
from Enniflcorthy shows that the reb
el leader from this place does not be
lieve the rebel leaders' message from
Dublin and has proceeded to that city
In a motor car under escort to verify ;
the information, "in the meantime aj
truce exists.
"A denotation fur n Hlmilm- imriiMKf, i
from the rebels at Ashbourne (Coun
ty Meath) has also been soil to Dub
lin. At Gnlway the rebels are believed
to be disbanding, and few a tresis have
been made.
"At Xew Koss, Gorey. Wlrklow. Ma
genal station and Ark low, the Kit ur- j G 0 11 6! I ell PcrSllinf1'
uou is ri'poneu normal, i.uriow aim
Dunlavin are believed to be quiet."
t-lgned by 'Generally Connolly."
Is supposed that, the newspaper is! In the meantime the following f.iet.l
being plinteil In the Freeman's office, 'developed:
which fs in rebel possession. I Muit CinifiTcnce DcTctimed.
The dispatch adds It Is feared that! That iliUe. the appaiciii intention f"1" t""t "'. ' has. been reached
the operation In clearing Sa.kvllles of the W ,i".lilimtm irovcrniuont. to!'" mo nt-Koimiinn. or ine pun.
street of the rebels entailed consider-J keep Genera! Pershing's columns In
able loss of life. Virtually all the ; Mevlc, lias not Imcii clinngi'd.
buildings in Hackvllle street. from That, General Ohrcwm In vestor-
Mctiry street to IMln quay, havo been j day's conference, served no sort of no-1 ltlf "'at the conference, would btt end
partly destroyed. Ihv, on Generals Scott ami Fiinsloii I " 111 '"'" rJ' him to start on bis re-
I that could lie .smMiued us an iillluia- u"" ,rlI o Mexico City by Tuesday
litlii dt'imiiuliiig liiinicilialc with- or " eilncsday. On the American sidu
clnals, Mexican und American, sceni
optimistic, y - ,
General ohregon expressed the lie-
ACTIVE
I
I (ll'UUlll.
! That (he (Iodic of tlx dc facto go, .
j criiiuciit for wlliidrawal uns agiilli
staled bin ilint the only illM'tission j
II Mas thought that possibly not more,
than one conference will he held.
General Ohregon this afternoon held
a lung conference with his advisers in
ulong Mil line was ivgurtliiig th,. nil- his prlvale car. Nothing was an
nounced regarding matter considered
during the Hireling. Later It was atat-
OF
IMS
SKVFX ItlllTISH OI FIOFItS
Klf,l.l;i: Hi WOlNDFDj
London, April HO (7:5."! p. rn.) An j
Official list of easiiallioH among the
London, April 3a (11:45 p. nO.The
hroelaniiition issued by the insurgents
"t Dublin at the outbreak of the
revolt reads as follows:
"The provisional government of the
rlsh republic, t, the people of Ire
land. "Irishmen and Irishwomen: In the
"nie of God and of the dead gener
ations from which vr.,i ruii,-,.,i the
?i traditions of nationhood, Ireland, soldiers have
. "s, summons her children 10
ner fHK an() strlke lor her freedom,
""Vini; organined and trained her
msnlmod through her secret revolii-
l,''"lai- organisation, the Irish repuh
"; luotherhood, and through open
military organization, the Irish vol
unteers and the Irish citizenry.
Having partly perfected their dis
'"jp ine and resolutely waited for the
Wit moment to roeaj itself, she
'W Belaog that nioimTnt and, Mupport-
by lier ejciled children In America
1 y h'"" gallant allies in Europe.
- relyinu nn oh
u,. " - ... ,,..ll f,l 1 ru -.1.., r-,.v
--", 1,1 1 in r,u,,,i,,n,-.u .if iupv.
IH'sti'oys Month 1XH1.
Amoy, China, May I. f'.ombs
found on an Island in Amoy harbor
have been destroyed by. a Chinese
cruiser. Four thousand northern
been landed on Hie
Knkier-Kwantuni' line. The unrest
is growing.
CAMPAIGN FOR ROOT
BECOMES ACTIVE
rBV MORNINfl JOUNNAL a(CIAL, Lt AD Wfftt
New York, April 30. Announce
ment was mode here tonight that, a
country-wide campaign has been un
dertaken for the nomination of Elihu
Hoot for president by the republican
'national convention. Headquarters
have been opened here in charge of
3. W. Dwight, who was for twelve
years a member of congress. Senator
jjJames W. AVodsworth will he the
representative of tho movement In
Washington. Headquarters will be
opened later in Chicago.
a my ou.c.rs at I'linun given nut to- ( cinhuahua, April 30 (Via Wireless to
night contains twenty-seven names. I (.,,i,,millla Aj,hi nn ,r..i... ..,
liability of 1111 Amcriciiii retircmcul.
j That there was considerable dlsciis
JhIoi, of istsslbilily of crftvllve
AiiK'i-icuii und Mexican co-opcralloo
In the ci'iidii-alloii of scutlci-cd ilia
baoilll ii'os.
That titer, Is a Mriiug pownlblliij-tl,ci-c
will be only 0110 mure confer
ence bcbl, (hat. dciH-iiilliig' on the
IS Mild) I of i,sl,li'gtoii gmcrn-
Pleased With Reports Froml Tli- "' pn'-'-m n.-Koiia-
r 1 , 11 r e IIK'iis arc irocc,tllg, Hliipmcuts of
uetacriments; Has Confer- supplies to u. Amcnc,,,, cvp,-,iinon's
pnrn With Cnlnnpl Dnrlrf """ '"'" ""' f"rwr,i uiuiitcnupt-
IvWKjI, Willi UUIUIItl UUUU! jcdly. imiong oilier siifiili,s Icavliuf the
j , miiioibus hn- today being nine Illicit!
'" '. uo wi. , ,...,,, llf ,.,,,.,...
Nuniiuulpu. u .
From slruy tills of Information Hiftl
Fiel,j Jleadiiiarler,
ed thai the minister of war had re
ceived a telegram from Candiilo Aglll
lar, minister of foreign relations at
Mexico Clly. statins' 'bat General
Obiegou had been quoted in certain
American pupil's as saying (bat ho
"had 4 0,000 men ready to force the
relliMui'id of the Auiericuu troops
iicloss the border." The telegram
added:
Mail, An .such statement.
"Instructions of the first chief nrft
that tho deelaratttoii made by you
lm sent lo this office to he sent offi
cially In our ambassador In Washing
ton." General Ohregon lintiiBfllalely wired
a reply, declaring lie had "never mni'la
Of tills total, five were killed, twenty-! a m,., 1,111, ,.n,..,i i,..i ,.,. became known today it iuinears tliii'!0'- thought of making such a strtto-
witli ""'in.
General ( iIu'croii suffered tonight
one Hounded undone missing. W,i,li,o ,,,.. t,,-u inn... ' vesterdity'., coiifcrenc,, ended
. , - J ........ .. ..",,,, if 1 1 1 r: , iiipinn. "
Tbw list isadilltloiuil lo the one an- Like men of iron, they have been rid-! "' 'location of withdrawal of the
nounced Friday giving tin. names of lm? relentlessly through the mountain j ,'"ll"fl males troops still uppermost
two officers killed and five wounded, I wildernesses of the continental di- 11 ''"' 1mI,iIh "f thn Mexican con
- vide fcreis. They urn understood lo have
FIIXD JIAHSIIAL SAYS I u , nwn h(,rp ltmt (,.rai ,t j. I tried to Impress on the American rej
CONDITIONS IMPHOVK Vcrshing, the expeditionary com
... . ,T1 ,. , miindcr, M pleased Willi the results
uoouoii, apin nn. mo siiiiituon 0i,t.,i..,.,i and thlll
in Dublin bus Improved considerably
today but the rebels still were offer
ing serious resistance In the neighbor
hood of t-'ackville street." said a slale
ment Issued by Field Marshal French
i-eseiilatlveH their claim that political
conditions In Mexico are such that
they cannot be responsible for any
eventualities that may result from
continued occupation of Mexico soil
by American column, They are said
Who Is Your Choice, Mr. Republican,
for Presidential Standard Bearer?
fice and the block of buildings enet
of Kuckvflle street have been destroy
ed by fire. A. party of rebels has been
driven out of Holnnd's mills, in King'
Knd, by guns mounted on motor lor
ries. One of I ho rebel leaders, a man
named I'earse, Is reported wounded
in the leg. A report received today
said that Pease had surrendered nn
condlllonaily, and that he asserted ho
not ended.
.IiIsciihs C,-oicrat.lnn.
In view of the already expressed n(-
valuable re
ports, havo been made to the American-military
authorities. However, It
Is pointed out that Ibis lrifm Tun I Ion
Is of such Importance that its nature j llh4" l" l,uvo l,ui H' ' '" ,m tna
leiinnot Hour 1... .,u.,i.. r.,,v.i!,. ,.,t,.,.i tnai tiie posnon ot ine t .arranza gov
at 11:80 o'clock lust night. "The cor. fi,r . T,,,,, ,hl. witi , ' .,.,.,,.. j crnmr nt could be extremely delicat.
d.m of troops encircling Ibis quarter, ((,,ai .hmeh t .j.t,,., ,ari!H viliiHin ' h" exp.-llilon,-,ry movement were
however, was steadily closing In, but ,,.,. , rorky ,.Any(tm of , 8)l,n
house to house fighting necessarily AIa,,rM n,,out a W0(t)f HK, tem.iml
enocreu piusiess slow. 1 n ,,onu.i- tm,BV ,-,,. ,,. ,,, ,
1 ' -I " "
neiu i long conference, with General j titiule of the Amerleuua that, thry
I'etshing. No statement was ma do were uuable to discuss any other
follow ing the meeting, I question than en-operation of tho twi.
in American troops are now con-, armies ii( tlsiersng tilt, various ban-
eetitrMted at strategic points along the I dli bands, the next hIcji was to al
lliit, of coinmiinieatlon from Coimu-1 tempt to reach a basts on which both
bus, X. M., to the front and the Car-1 sides might meet.
ranna forces that have been gather- Washlngtotra answer to the telegram
lug near Guurrero have manifested a j dispatched by Generals Hcott and
desire to CO-Oricr.lte U'lth them In ' r'nr,ui,,ii tlti 1,11, 111I1 1., v, I tt,
hwi ''T " "ut'"ri'l to aec jit I h every possible way. ' jdlvult whether sue), b(lsis can be
same terms of surrender for his fol-j li.,i 11 .,. t I
lowers in Diihlin. Another leader, J tt-: 'ritlTKIttDH IP I , ' ,
. ... . a I ln sonie U.iileiH tonight there was
r.?"''" v' ' " t,'""'ul SUM-I.II!. I-Tli l lMSm(i t disposition lo believe that the next
,...,' ,.,,, i.i x.'T. . ,., 1 eonferciic.j will 1le.1l with Hie iiiMsiion
,1,1- i 11,1 10 umuiL tviii' lit - ..-luiioriir., i ,liri Jl .Mill, ' - - ,.,i.l,.l ( 1... .1....
- .-!. I... I. - . 11 1.. . . ... . - , .. " " " "u'
diiii 111 uvi'i u., 1 I'rtp, in aiii pui limn',- i i i iii.jininiii, m () lull a UCH leailUt mil
from a severe cold contracted daring
his Journey from MeMco Clly.
'ieneinl Calles, military governor of
Roiioia, who was summoned to Juarez
by General Obiegou friturtlay, today
retiirn,.,i to Agua Prbta. Consider-'
able significance had been ultaohe.il
to his visit, hut It. was announced by
Mexican officials that he merely'
came to Jutircii (o confwr on routine
stale mutters. General f'nlles Is re
ported to b a i long Obrtgon up
pnrier. iff, commiMids some fifteen '
thousand tioops In Sonora stole.
tlovernor Knrbiiic!!, of Chihuahua,
and General ijiitierre, military om
niandcr of the sumo state, panned to '
return to Chihuahua City tonitfht.
CAl.IlM PIUJI'AIIINO KU
Vi l K OPI.KUIONSl
Klsewliere the Journal pnnts an aniioiiucciiK ia and ciitsm for a
"Hiraw vnu." by rpiillicans as lo tl'ir hoiiv foe the. rcpiihlican nomiiH-e
for rosliloiit. The vote Is part of a nation-wide poll uinlcrtakt-ii l,y Hie
New York Tilhiine for the purpose- of ascei lalulng rcpiihlican scntlmittt
on the siihiect. and (be Journal will make die oll In New Me.i-o.
The Trihanc aim'niiK'es that Uin choice or tin convention Is certain
lo e cilher Tliwalore Tloosetelt or Justice Ifiiglics; that it formerly was
owing to -uniiinnTii
reicr-cl
....II
I.I lilf., ts. In If'Hrilimr IllllHIC SCIlllIIM-III. lin Iff'il
iroi 01 inso i siii"fn, nut. .u,., - - - ...
to be sovereign and Hide- and the gtwral result ascertained ly "e ITimini win i.,o.-.,. ir
Long usurpation of that lime to time. Tlie vole conducted hy the Jjntrnal Is not to ie coniineu i
HoONi'vell and llugltcs. vn,i in your ui.hi-. ni-T.rr 11- n, -
: e tloclaie the right of the peo.lc-1 Mlroiigly opiMed to the nominalhin of lKMvelt. but, owing to -un
J i U.nd t the ownership of lre-j development,,." l.ax reerHl its ptBilion." The Journal has tior
3 d " unfettered co'drcl of Irish Ms position, but woubl like to assist In learning puMIc? sentiment.
bin.
" h forfimi peupU and govrn-
' ll vr i. (.xtlnguished except
the Journal. Iiegtiinine next SuntU), ti l.iihlisl the vote from day to day
null tlie Tribune's vlet ends. . f.I. , ,
fii far 11s the
American conferees are concerned,
the subject will be approached with
reserve, it. Is pointed out that there
belllon In Dublin is on the verge of I permanent nature. An anulvsls of . . "-i""-"" -
I AUDI H (III H' - IIIII'lll It' t tin ni 1 1' 1 1 tir
jmlnMlori of (Jt-mrul ViMblitK cluniiiw
1 .... 1. 1 L
amoni, ihem .-h n,,,,,!.,.... f "..,,. r.m.-...
kits, siiddk, hags 8,i other field I t ashlogioti s Attitude.
eUipmet,t as well HH much lumber I In ttu m 1 In-les I, l nrued that the i
and building supplies siinnosedlv for .'lulled .states might consent , ri-liu-!
td by a cordon of police which grad-'b-ise here today for the front, togeth-
ually Is closing in. All Information er with other activities, imilcatod
polnla to the conclusion that t Ii re-1 preparatintiH there of more or less
colloapse. A considerable number nf supplies sent forward from here in
rebels art- prisoners in military ens- the last few days disclosed that
tody.
' 'Kcportu tVt evening from the res!
of Ireland are tcncrally satisfactory
Th conil,;! ins n Kclfasi and flster
are , 01 m il. and tho situation t Lon
dond T5 stated to be quite salis
factot . T'le dint I let Within fifteen
milt s - ' '! -V;V, also Is reported nor
mal, bit tfll oands have been lo
cated b 1 t-t ii A bemy and Craiiuli
well. XI ''!- n ifl prisoners have
been caj, ; ! an.. ent to Queens-j
town. Au ee has I ut rebels is re-1
use In repairing bridges, erecting ex-j'lIJlsh the chase nf the Villa bandits lo
eeutlve buildings und the construction 1 the forces of the ,le facto govm,
of tent floors. Jinent, hut that, pending a tuiceitwlul
First reports of desertion were re
ceived today from the front. These
said eight catalrymen had deserted
from a cavalry regiment because of
the rigorous march in northern Mex
ico. 1
Completion of tbis tusk by the Cur
ranclslas, it would insist oil it paitiul
occupation of the slate of Chihuahua,
where most of the bandit outrages
have occurred.
News arriving here today, Indieat-
Dmiglas, Ariz., April Do. General
P. KlIitM Calles, military governor of
8011,,1-a, has lieen engaged all cluy
sinew In return to Aguj Prieta from
1 11 Pawo, this morning, In conference
with bis siihordinalo officers. The
nature ot IhesD contereiurus Is u'1-s
known but they, are believed to be
for the purpose of giving instruction
to the various officer in BCcorduPce
wlih General Alvnro Obregun'a In
slrui-tloiia lo Calles.
General Call's refused himself to
nil newspaper men this afternoon, be
ing too busy, uctordlng to Ives (.
litdevler, de facto coiibuI, to sea any
one before tomorrow.
Consul Leveller denied tht Genetal
Calles went to Kl Puso to attend the
t onte.iiice between Ouiierals Hcott.
Piinstoii and ohregon. Ho said that
I he Koiioiu chief had irone there for
the puiiiose 0 reporting "certain
toildllions" to General ObrcgoU Bnd
to t-eci he ordci-H relative to these
conditions. Although he ud this
phrase repeatedly, lie refused to ex
plain what the conditions were.
Consul Lelevler aaid that the with
drawal of the American troops from '
Mexico has been "put Bipmrely up to
tufA
