I Today's Metal Prices I ft t jl f iV X SkTW-wXvW X 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I I
? New York, May 1. Silver, 72 7-8c; 0 "feA- . VV WEATHER Utah: Tonight Fair H
1 ' ,ead' $7.50; spelter, $18.15; copper, f With Frost; Tuesday Fair and ' H
528.175. - Warmer. H
; FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. -J M
! Forty-slxth Year-No. 104. - Price Five Cents. ' QGDEN CITYTUTAtJ, MONDAY EVENING, MAY 1, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah. H
I Germans Renew Aggressive Northwest I
of Verdun and Suffer Enormous Losses I
. . H
! DENSE FORCES ATTACH FRENCH
I LINES MEET COMPLETE REPULSE
J
1 11 Curtain of Fire Accomrjimied by Withering Machine Gun Fire
II Breaks Down All German Assaults French Aeroplane
Hi: Squadrons Drop Bombs on Station at Sebastopol
j and at Otlier Places Numerous Fires and Ex
it plosions Follow.
Ir
London, May 1,5:11 p. m. The British steamship Hen-
Ji donhall from Portland, April 1 7, and Louisburg, C. B., April
If 1 1 for Rotterdam, has been sunk according to a dispatch to
I i Lloyd's. The crew was saved.
I The Hendonhall was 3994 tons gross. She was 345 feet
I: long, 47 feet beam and 1 9 feet deep. The vessel was built in
' 1901 and owned by the West Hartlepool Steam Navigation
' company.
,; London, May 1, 12:20 p. m. The British steamship
1 1 City of Lucknow, 3,669 tons gross, and owned in Glasgow,
I t has been sunk.
$ New York, May 1 .: The French passenger steamer
& Patria, which arrived here today from Naples and Palermo,
II f reported that on her last outward voyage at ten a. m., April 5,
iJt ' she was the target of a submarine torpedo attack in the Medi-
terranean. The torpedo missed the ship by about ten feet, the
officers said.
I The rebel leaders in Dublin, having
given up their fight for lost, the rank
and file aie continuing to lay down
their arms.
Sniping is still reported from some
sections of the city. All the leaders
in the Irish revolt have now given!
themselves up, according to official),
announcement.
Germans Renew Aggressive.
The Germans have renewed their
aggressive in force northwest of. Ver
dun, "delivering a massed attack'oh the
positions recently captured by the
French, north of Deadman's hill, and
counter-attacking also a trench they
had lost north of Cumieres. In both
cases tho assailants were repulsed,
Paris declares.
Unofficial advices from Constanti
nople say that the Turks estimate at
20,000 men, the losses of the British
during March and April in Meso
potamia, Berlin War Report.
Berlin, May 1. The following an
nouncement was made today at army
headquarters:
"Western front: The situation gen-
orally Is unchanged.
"German aerial squadrons conduct
ed extensive bombardments of the
enemy's encampment and magazines
i west of Verdun.
i "A French biplane was shot-down in
, an aerial fight east of Royan."
' Paris, May 1, 12:01 p. m. German
S troops in dense masses made a vio
lent attack lost night on positions cap
1 1 tured by the French north of Dead
' Man's Hill on the Verdun front. The
, , attack was defeated by the French,
I the war office report this afternoon
i nays. The Germans, tho announce
ment states, suffered "enormous loss
-I Two simultaneous counter attacks
by the Germans on a trench captured
yesterday by the French north of
Cumieres were repulsed.
; At hill 304 and in the Vaux region,
rgSk there was incessant bombardments.
S I A French aerial squadron bombard-
- ed a supply and -munitions station
south of Thiaucourt and a camp near
9 1 Splncourt,
"J3 Germans Suffer Enormous Losses.
-J I The text follows:
Jg I "After a violent bombardment yes-
- lorday, the enemy, at tho end of the
M i day, delivered a powerful attack In
' dense formation upon the trenches
Wii captured by us north of Dead Man's
"Kl Hill. Our curtain of fire, together
JOt) with tho fire of the machine guns,
WjU caused enormous loss to the cnemy
Ef and all tho assaults of tho Germans
JRh( were broken.
w "Thoro has been a violent and con-
Wti tinued bombardment of hill No. 304
&fF d also In tno T&on of Vau- Tne
Wxk night passed quietly in the Woevro.
WL "During the night of April 29-30
Wk French aeroplane squadrons threw
Wwf down numerous projectlls on the rail-
M road station at Sebastopol, south of
8i,t Thlacourt; on certain bivouacks near
2j Splncourt and on the railway stations
jR at Apremont, Grand Pre, Challego
-$? range and Vouziere.
Z-W& "During these operations it was
&m noticed that numerous tires broke out
3Ki an a number of explosions were af-
"m footed on the railroads."
I GERMANS SINK
1 LARGETRANSPORT
-Hr Berlin, May 1. It is reported from
V Salonlki that a German submarine
R bas torpedoed a large transport,
fHk It Is said the transport was torpo-
H, docd off Kara Burun, ten miles east
'1 of Salonlki. This 1b the second in-
aB' t stance the transport is reported to
have been torpedoed near saloniki.
Ihls report is contained in a dis
patch from Zurich, which credits this
news to the Greek newspaper Nea
Alithia, of Saloniki.
nn
BRITISH ARMY LOSES
TWENTY THOUSAND
Berlin, May 1, by wireless to Say
ville. The number of casualties 'sus
tained by the British forces in Meso
potamia during March and April is
given as 20,000 in a Constantinople
dispatch to the Overseas News Agen
cy. "The booty captured at Kut-el-Amara
has uot yet been reckoned,"
the news agency adds. "Among the1
prisoners are four generals, 240 Brit
ish officers and 270 Indian officers.
The Turkish commander-in-chief Hail
Pasha, permitted General Townshend
(the British commander) to retain his
sword."
no
AMBASSADOR IS
GUEST OF KAISER
Berlin, May 1, 10:30 a. m , via Lon
don, 4; 20 p m. At least another
day's deliberations at great headquar
ters and perhaps more, may be ex
pected before the German answer to
the American note is decided on.
This is deduced from the fact that
Ambassador Gerard telegraphed last
night it was uncertain when he would
be able to return to Berlin. Mr. Ger
ard is the guest of Emperor William
at meals.
n
LAY DOWN ARMS
Irish Republic Devotees Sur
render to British Troops-1
Men March Out Under
White Flag.
'ADVICE OF LEADER
Tells Officers to Resist No
Longer and to Inform
Country Districts.
i
London, May 1, 1:45 p. m. Official
announcement was made J.his after
noon that all the rebel leaders In Dub
lin had surrendered.
General Maxwell, tho British com
mander, announced tonight that T.
O'Reilly was among the prisoners. He
also stated reports from the country
districts showed that everywhere quiet
was being restored and that tho rebels
were coming in by groups to surrend
er, especially at Ashbourne and En-
A mandato has been sent out ad
vising the rebels of the falluro of the
uprising and In most cases tho rank
and file have followed tho examples
of their leaders and surrendered un
conditionally. The opinion prevails that the at
tempt at the formation of a republic
has been abortive. The rebels have
been unable to Bhow any succoss after
their first surprise.
The fate of the prisoners is now
In the handB of the government which
poBSOB8e8 very wide powers under
martial law.
The Irish aommandanL J. H. Pearco,
HOW TURKS SURROUND THE BRITISH AT KUT-EL-AMARA1 '
I 1 j X--OL Entrenchments J J& DIVISION
H --. -i maim I Falahiyehf'V , r '
I v K&- tKp Jkh Dfen$inSS8kl3 BRITISH
T h. TURKISH J", ftSjSrafiir priiruiNr
I - CONCENTRATION ggSJig rAo
fr'ir v4rW FORCE
'xs A- Entrenching Kr-0DIVISIO
&i ffh j -" ,"": ,
9 ' jff& X5?&' successiveI fe.
Turkish ff2 X&5'" advances of .
Redoubts Ha (r'" British :
SS55n jM 3 OK ) FORCb. I :
W Wt Ite8 BRITISH FORCE nM)UArLAH REDOUBT ----' 6 .
f Rridn.ornTmi SURROUNDED ,. S MvnxaAhxx.
I force uJ - y -$? 6HkRiISHJ ati3&0
BRITISH M ITcW . i C-
I TURKISH Ksaai mt0 f ry
The recent operations along the River Tigris towards Kut-d-Amara.
This map shows the positions held by the Turks, and the arrows show the movements of General Gor
ringe's relieving force through the first positions at El Hannah. The relieving force is composed of two divis
ions one for each bank of the Tigris. " "
who is now a prisoner, is a school
master. He was wounded by a shot
In the leg. Before being captured he
took a most active part In the upris
ing and was looked to as the head of
the movement.
Reports from the provisional dis
tricts show that the greatest disturb
ances outside of the city occurred in
County Meay. In other districts there
were disorders. At one place north of
Dublin, a small detachment of the
Royal Irish Constabulary, commanded
by an Inspector was surrounded by
rebels and disarmed. It Is not known
whether the rebels held the policemen,
prisoners, buMfc is assumed they dM,
A message' AVasent foTJubTirrf6r re
inforcements, which were dispatched
in armed automobiles Over the rest
of the country all was quiet except
at Enniscorthy and Wexford.
Rebels Captured Redhanded.
Many of the prisoners were cap
tured redhanded with weapons. Hun
dreds of otlier are being detained
One man was caught in a chimney
from which he had been sniping for
four days and nights. He held a posi
tion of trust in the office of a steam
ship company.
The casualties up to the present
are said to be very numerous, al
though the troops have not suffered
as heavily as might have been ex
pected. Dublin,-April 30, via London, May 1.
10 20 a. m. Rebels of the rank and
file fillowed the example of their
leaders today and confessed the cause
of the Irish republic was lost by lay
ing down their arms at the foot of
the Parnell monument In Sackville
street and surrendering to British
troops. About 450 of them who had
fought since Monday in this central
area marched out from their strong
holds under the white flag and gave
themselves up. A few irreconcilables
continued sniping from lairs, difficult
to locate, on roofs or among rafters of
buildings nearby.
Soon afterward a rebel lieutenant,
wearing a heather green uniform and
carrying a white flag, came In with a
guard of ton men from the adjoining
county of Heath to learn the truth
about rumors of a general surrender
The party marched off to the castle
and learned from J. H Pearce, who
was named provisional president of
tho Irish republic, that the movement
bad collapsed and was advised to re
sist no longer The lieutenant and
his escort then started out to parley
with the rebels in the country dis
tricts in an effort to induce them to
lay down their arms.
James Connolly a Prisoner.
James Connolly, one of the leadors
of the uprising, Is said by government
officials to bo a prisoner, wounded,
in the castle.
A correspondent of Tho Associated
Press visited the entire area of the
disturbance today. The desolation
and destruction showed how severo
was the fighting. Tho havoc appears
more extensive than it actually is,
owing to the amount of debris.
Destruction in Dublin.
Every window of the law courts had
been shattered. The rebels had held
tho building for a week. Valuable
law reference books and furniture
were utilized to barricade windows
and through tho interstices between
tho bulky volumes tho rebels sniped
without cessation, day and night and
were fired on in turn until they were
compelled to evacuate the premises.
Houses all around were dented with
bullet marks. Somo of them were
barricaded with thick oaken planks.
Over Wine Tavern bridge there were
similar scenes.
People Inspect Streets.
This morning the streets wore full
of curious persons who were glad to
have the npportunlty to be about after
their long detention in their homes
during which they were deprived of
food until the authorities made pro
vision for them.
Down Cork hill and King Edward '
streets strong guards of troops are :
still in evidence and every passerby
is challenged.
Snipers Still Shooting.
The city hall had been occupied for
several daj's by the rebels and even at
this time snipers in houses in the vi
cinity are shooting at intervals.
As the correspondent approached
the castle a party of more than 100
captured members of the Sinn Fein
marched by under escort toward Rich
mond jail, where more than 700 are
now held. Many1 of the men were In
green uniforms. One wore the uni
form of the Irish volunteers and oth
gers were In civilian clothes. Number
HlflStra 2&kwoundedand.suff 'eYing.
but most of them held up their heads
defiantly
People of Dublin Bitter.
The soldiers escorting them were
men who had fought all through the
uprising and wore more bitter against
their rebellious fellow countrymen
lhan the troops brought over from
England. This feeling seems to be
shared by most of the population of
Dublin
St. Stephen's Green, where the reb
els entrenched themselves as soon as
the movmnt was bgun on Monday,
was almost deserted. Around Trinity
college and the old Irish parliament
quiet reigned. The officers training
corps, quartered in the college, had
done much to suppress the uprising.
Great Damage In Streets.
Great damage was done in Sack
ville street and adjacent thoroughfares
such as Middle Abbey, Abbey Mary
and Henry streets. Only a few gird
ers and window frames of some hous
es remain. Along the east side of
Sackville street, from Henry street
to O'Connell bridge, tho buildings are
battered beyond recognition. The
postoffice is merely a smouldering
frame work. The stone Young Men s
Christian Association building on the
same side of the way, was perforated
by eight shellB, the Catholic club by
two and the Blind Institution by two
Bodies of slain rebels were being
carried away In groups by soldiers,
many of them having been shot sever
al times
When the authorities gave orders
that the people were to be allowed to
enter the streets today, some of the
jioor began looting. This was stopped
at 2 o'clock when the troops cleared
the streets again and arrested every
one who did not move promptly.
SITlTTPPIITir ftV
i rrr u !ii 161
Uli 1 LjI1i13UI yi
U G ffl fi LB 1 yJ E-, Mi
Captain and Men of Steamship
Suffolk Maddened by Cold,
Hunger and Exposure.
Halifax, N. S May 1. The fate of
the captain and crew of tho British
steamer Suffolk, caught in tho Ice in
the White sea, while on her way to
Archangel shortly before Christmas,
with details of suffering from cold,
hunger and exposure resulting In tho
death of all but three men of a crew
of twenty-seven, and the suicide of
the ship's captain, who, maddened by
hunger and cold, shot himself wero
related here today, by sailors of tho
New Foundland steamer Bella Ven
ture, just In from Archangel.
The crow of the Bella Venturo,
which has been In Ttusslan waters
more than a year, met and talked
with tho three Burvlvore, only ono of
whom, a Russian Finn, was physically'
able to recount his adventures. The
other two wero not expected to re
cover. Ship Caught In Ice.
Tho Suffolk, supposedly having a
cargo of war supplies, was caught in
the ice of the White sea with the first
heavy freeze before tho holidays.
Heavy weather followed and finally
aot only food, but fuel was exhaust-
ed. -The suffering caused many of
the men to lose their minds and
while in this state they succumbed.
The ship's captain, crazed by the suf
fering of his men whom he was unable
to aid, and himself exhausted and
worn, committed suicldo.
When only ten survivors remained
they decided to try to reach land on
loot. Taking the scanty provisions
malning, thoy set forth on an eighty
mile trip across the ice. A heavy
blizzard set in and the party soon be
came scattered and lost. Only three
were able to stick together and after
days of wandering, they were found
lbJlfeer.r,Qw-.oX..a British, ship -and
taken To land.
The Suffolk, a ship of 4.S54 tons,
was last reported m Maritime records
as leaving Townsville, Australia, No
vember ISth last for Bowen, Australia,
rniiNTFRNfAivnFn
uulJnlLlilTiililJLij
Instructions to Regiment to
Proceed South Changed
More Cavalry on Way.
Columbus, N. M., May l. Orders for
a regiment of infantrv stationed at
Colonia Dublan to proceed south have
been countermanded, according to re
ports from across the Mexican border
today. Developments at the El Paso
conference was tho general explana
tion offered for tho change in plans.
However, a number of cavalry organ
izations are known to be making their
way south along the line of communi
cations. Whether these moves arc the first
In the redisposition of the American
troops in Mexico is not known. A
long codo message was received here
today from El Paso for transmission
to General J. J. Pershing, the local
telegraph office being ordered opened
early to receive IL
A twelve-hour rain hampered the
transportation of supplies today, leav
ing thin streams of mud in the ruts
into which the motor troll has been
cut.
AEROPLANES FOR ARMY.
Albuquerque, N. M., May 1. A car
load of aeroplanes for the 'use of the
American forco at the border passed
through here last nighL
oo
BANK LOANS REACH
EXTREME POINTS
Behlln May 1, via. wireless to Say
ville. The report of the German loan
banks for 1915 shovr that while tho
maximum liml tfor emissions had been
fLxed by law at the beginning of tho
war at 3,000,000 marks, the sum of
2,000,000,000 was passed only during
three days. The highest level was
touched on December 31, with 2.34S,
000 marks, tho lowest on February 15,
with 065,000,000. The principal bor
rowers wero the municipalities which
required largo Bums owing to the ne
cessities of the war.
i-orv
NEW GOVERNMENT BONDS.
Washington, May 1. The federal
reserve board announced that It has
been advised by one of tho twelve re-
servo banks of a sale of now three-percent
government bonds, provided for
in the federal reserve act, at 103 5-S,
when Issued, and the sale of $1000,
000 of one-year notes at 100 1-2.
nn
CHICAGO BANKER DIES.
Chicago, May 1. Andrew J. Gra- J
ham, head of the banking company of i
Graham & Sons, died today at tho
age of 55.
SCfln INSTRUCTED IT 10 AGREE I
TO IMMEDIATE RECALL OF TROOPS I
General Pershing Forces to Remain in Mexico General M
Must Make Plain Attitude of United States to Mexico M
Minister of War Obregon General Scott to Point
Out That de Facto Government Is Threatened
by Enemies Within Its Own Borders. M
Washington, May 1. Additional In-,
structions sent to Generals Scott and
Funston today by Secretary Baker,
after a conference with President Wil
son and with Secretary Lansing, are
understood to make plain that what
ever is agreed upon at the conference
with General Obregon, General Car
ranza's minister of war, must not be
based on any immediate recall of Gon
cral Pershing's forces.
General Scott probably will point
out to the Carranza war minister that
the de facto government is threatened
by 'factional enemies within its own
borders who would welcome an oppor
tunity to rise against iL If the Unit
ed States were compelled to go into
Mexico in considerable force to make
certain the security of its own bord
ers against bandit raids, that oppor
tunity might be prevented.
The American officers had asked
for amplification of instructions re
ceived last night from Secretary Bak
er. Officials here have described the
conference up to this time as being
purely of a preliminary character and
for the purpose of exchanging views.
No demands have been presented by
either side.
Washington, May 1. After an ex
change of messages between General
Scott and the war department on his
conference Saturday with General
Obregon, Mexican minister cf war, of
ficials said today the negotiations up
to date have been "satisfactory."
While Genral Obregon has urged that
the American troops be withdrawn,
President "Wilson-they said, has no"
Intention of granting the request at
present and is hopeful that an agree
ment will be reached for co-operation
between American and Mexican troops
in the pursuit of Villa and other
bandits. General Scott has been In
structed to continue to press for such
an agreement.
Definite proposals have not yet been
reported in the border conferences, it
was authoritatively stated at the war
department. A long code dispatch from
General Scott arrived early today.
Secretary Baker, of tho war depart
ment, expected to send supplementary
advices to General Scott, to reach
him if possible before his second con
ference with General Obregon.
No Peremptory Demand Made.
While It was officially admitted that
General Obregon had "suggested"
withdrawal from Mexico of the United
States expedition, officials said these
overtures had not been In tho form of
a demand and that no peremptory or
unalterable position has been taken
by either side. General Scott, It was
explained, had made counter sugges
tions to General Obregon proposing
co-operative military measures.
Mexican Ambassador Arrendondo
will confer with Secretary Lansing
this afternoon.
Report Sent to Washington.
El Paso, Texas, May 1. Resump
tion of the Scott-Funston-Obregon con
ferences to consider the American
military problem in Mexico may not
be undertaken until late today or pos
sibly tomorrow, when, it Is believed,
the administration will have had time
to digest the reports that have been
sent to Washington by the American
representatives of the war department
here.
Generals Scott and Funston. with
their aides, worked far into the night
preparing data and reports and a last
code message was dispatched to the
war department just before daybreak.
Several code messages have already
been exchanged aud it is understood
that the army officers have asked
permission to take up, In all its
phases, the question of withdrawing
iv,a frnnna fmm Mexico which Gen
eral Obregon and his fellow conferees
brought to the fore at the confer
ence of Saturday. '
Will Settle Withdrawal Question.
That the conferences here will fin
ally settle the withdrawal questlbn
is not believed. Washington, it is
said, has suggested that the Amer
ican representatives obtain all possi
ble data and information bearing on
Iho question that may be advanced
by tho Mexican conferees and for
ward a full report for the considera
tion of the state department, which
now has Carranza's request for a
withdrawal of the American troops
under advisemenL
After the conclusion of tho nego
tlatirns here for tho withdrawal of
the troops, the American conferees
are prcrared to take up the proposi
tion of co-operation of the American
troops with the Carranza troops. It
Is believed that General Obregon, be
fore undertaking to discuss this ques
tion, will at least urge that the Amer
ican truops retire to a limited and
restricted district Just south of tho
border for its political effect in Mex
ico. The presence of United States
troops on Mexican soil is said to be
rrovoking hostility.
Obregon and his party think tho
i
cpnferences will be concluded by th? M
middle of the week. H
VILLISTAS ARE I
GIVEN NO REST I
Columns of American Cavalry H
Riding Mercilessly on Trail H
of Fugitives. B
MOTOR AMBULANCES H
New Cars Reach Field Head- U
quarters and Are Put Into JM
Active Service. H
Field Headquarters, Namiqulpa, M
Chihuahua, May 1. (By radio to Co-
lumbus, N. M.) General J. J. Per- M
shing, commander of the expedition- H
ary troops in Mexico, is concentrating j
his every effort on estimating the sit- M
uatlon that he may plan for every pos- H
sible future development. Every re- H
port of the advanced cavalry columns
and those reaching here from the bor- H
der are studied thoroughly in an at- JM
tempt to obtain a proper prospective. M
Vllllstas Given No-Rest. H
The scattered bands of Vllllstas aro j
being given no resL Columns of M
cavalry are riding mercilessly on their M
trails. These fugitives, now in groups M
of two or three and now singly, are H
making their way far Into the wildness H
of the mountain region in their at- H
tempt to escape the Americans. H
The new motor ambulances, which H
recently reached the field headquart- H
ers, are being given their first test H
In active service carrying the wound- H
ed from Parral and Tomochic to tho H
field hospital at Colonia Doublan. H
OO IH
mm fMim
AMOS EI WILL I
Whether Columbia University H
Will Receive $100,000 or 1
Seven Millions to Be H
Decided. H
New York, May 1. Whetner tho late M
Amos E. Eno intended to leave ?100,- H
000 or more than $7,000,000 to Colum- H
bia university by his will of June 18, IH
1915, is tho question before the surro- JM
gate today In a will contest begun by H
his heirs over the division of his es- H
tate estimated to be worth from $15,- IH
000,00 to $19,000,000. Mr. Eno left IH
four wills, in the last of which he be- H
qucathed his residuary estate to Co- H
lumbia., H
His heirs asserted he did not know jH
the extent of his fortune and that he IH
(believed he was giving the university IH
less than $100,000. Should the will be H
sustained, Columbia university will H
receive from $7,000,CKfo to $11,000,000. IH
Tho heirs who aro contesting It are IH
William P Eno, Mrs. Antoinette E. IH
Wood, Mary E. PinchoL Glfford Pin- H
chot, Amos R. B. PInchot, Prof. Menry H
Lane Eno and Lady Antoinette Graves. H
Each received a substantial sum under JH
the will they aro contesting, but was H
romembercd to a much larger degree H
in a will drawn by Mr. Eno in 1914. H
oo IH
SHERIFF AND I
RANCHER SHOT I
Cheyenne Officer With Posse
Hunting Horse Thieves, M
Loses Life at Early fl
Morning Hour. M
Fort Collins, Colo,, May 1. Frank H
Roach, sheriff of Cheyenne, Wyo., and H
Nels Nelson, rancher, eighteen miles IH
west of Cheyenne, were shot and kill- IH
ed, thirty-five miles northwest of H
Boxelder, Col., while bending a posse H
who wero hunting horso thieves. The H
thieves escaped. H
Early today responsibility for the H
shooting was not definitely establish- H
ed. Roach and .Nelson had watched jH
the camp of the thieves all night plan- H
ning to rush it at dawn. About four H
o'olook three shots wore heard. Posse H
men Investigating, found Koaoh and
Nelson dead. jH
