THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 40.
BAHHE, VERMONT, MONDAY, MAY 1, 1910.
Pit ICE, ONE CENT.
ft
i
i
VERDUN ATTACK
AGAIN VIOLENT
DURING NIGHT
Dense Masses of Troops
Were Hurled Against Po
sitions Captured by the
French North of Dead
Man's Hill and Were De-
feated, Declares Paris Of
ficial Statement
ia reported from Saloniki In have torpe
doed a large transport off Kara Burum,
10 unlet cast of Saloniki. Tlii it the
second Instance where a transport was
torpedoed In that vicinity. .
ORGANIZED LABOR
HAD ITS BEST YEAR
Received More in Twelve Months' Period
Ending May 1, Than Ever Before in
Its History, Say American Federa
tion of Labor Officials.
Washington, D. C, May 1. Organized
labor received more in the year ending
with May 1 in increased wages, shorten
ing of hours and legislation than ever
before in its history, according to offi
cials of the American Federation of La
bor. Wage advances were general the
country over in virtually every line of
industry and law benefitting labor were
put on the statute books of every state
in the union except five.
Wage increases were greatest in 'the
metal trades, many of which were Btim
ulated by war orders. Cotton mantifac
turing was the only main industry which
m. o; r a did not grant substantial increases. The
j. wo simultaneous vouineri . . . . , . ...
i mi in i iiaut's, iuii, uiuiuicu . me- i rc n c-v
Attacks bV Germans OII number of Rtrikos during the year,
their men and cut working hours voluntarily.
French North Of CumiereS One benefit brought by the industrial
revival which labor officials consider as
Were Repulsed InCeSSant important as increases in wages wag the
Bombardments Kept Up at appeared within the past year. Statistics
TT'ii nni j ii -rr Jufit completed by the department or la-
XI ill dU4 and in the VaUX bor show that men of all trades have
ry . been called in to work. Iron and steel
lieOflOn mills have on their payrolls now thirty-
six per cent more men than were em
ployed a year ago and the ear building
and repairing industry has increased its
Paris, May 1. German troops in dense forces by about the same percentage.
masses made a violent attack last night -miiaciurers or ooois ana suoes .
., ... . , employing twenty per cent more men
on the position captured by the French th his time last vear.
IRISH
REVOLT
FAILS
"ENORMOUS LOSSES"
WERE SUSTAINED
north of Dead Mans Hill on the erdun ngo increases during the year have
front. The attack was defeated by the ranged from five to fifteen per cent. Nj
French, the war ofl'ice. renort thin after- statistics Have been compiled by either
noon says. The Germans, the announce- the department of labor or the Ameri
mentf adds, suffered enormous losses. Two ian Federation of Labor, but report
:
Rebels of the Rank and File
Followed the Example of
Their Leaders and Laid
Down Their Arms at the
Foot of the Parnell Statue
in Dublin, Then Surren
dering Themselves
QUIT STRONGHOLDS
UNDER WHITE FLAG
A Few of Their Fellows Con
iinued to Keep Up Their
Sniping from Their Lairs
on Housetops and from
Among the Rafters of
Nearby Buildings Rebel
lion Has Lasted a Week
simultaneous counter-attacks bv the
Germans on a trench captured yester-
coming in to both tell of what is being
accomplished in manufacturing plants in
day by the French north of Cumieres a11 Prtg of the country
were repulsed. At Hill No. 304 and in
the Vaux region there were incessant
bombardments. A French serial squadron
bombarded a supply and munitions sta
The department of labor puts the coun
try's 1D15 strikes at 1,500, about 300
more than the vear before. About two.
thirds of them were for wage moreasts
FRENCH RELATE AIR TRIUMPHS.
tion south of Thiaucourt and a campl01" decreased working hours ami most of
near Apincourt. uieui cre successiui. Aiuninons sirises
sinning in ine summer or mm aurarv
ed much attention. Most of them were
for shorter hours without pay increased.
Shorter hours generally were obtained
by the munitions workers, but where
wage increases were asked the workers
seldom got as much as they asked for.
Strikes in the clothing industry in
eastern cities involved a number of
workersbut their duration was compara
tively short. A middle western clothing
strike, in Chicago, however, lasted fur
tJiree months and involved from 6,000 to
25.000 workers. Other strikes of im
portance during the vear included the
While Germans Tell of Success of One
Aeroplane Against Three.
pRria, May 1. The following commuii
. ication wag issued last night by the war
department:
"Aviation one of our aen. planes at
tacked two Fokkers above the German
lines in the region of Koye. Subjected
. to machine gun fire at an nltitude of 1,
500 meters one crashed to the ground,
the other was forced to make a land
ing.
"Two
other
building trades strike in Chicago, which
Fokkers were brought V V m m T V
down by our battle aeroplanes, one near " r "'""'
Us Eparges and the other at Douau- N" J- " ""borm cities and t.ic Uii-
oflflrn fit rant r stf L-., I ria oaulArn f llii.-
111011 1.
"Five enemy aeroplanes dropped lxmbs ' B(el" u,J , , 1
in the region south of Verdun. Our pur- The l,e9 of "tr.kes and lockout
t:t n " numerous. in a iouu oi
in brinrW down two. A third WllJ strikes three hundfd were for wage in
, i. ..i. i... i.. f .. creases; 133 for shorter working dav; !K)
i I because of wage cuts; fiO because ot dis-
"An aviatik was forced to earth intact r,ar0 of llni,,n men! 40 bpc'a"se (m
. u: ....it . f.. .. ployment of non union men and 20 lor
Dublin, Sunday, via London Monday,
May 1. Rebels of the rank and file fol
lowed the example of their leaders to-day
and confessed that the cause of the Irish
republic was lost by the laying down of
their arms at the foot of the Parnell mon
ument on Sackville street and surrender
ing to the British troops. About 450 of
them, who had fought since Monday in
this central area, marched out from their
strongholds under a white flag and gave
themselves up. A few continued their
sniping from their lairs on housetops and
among the rafters of the nearby build
ings.
General Maxwell reports that all is
quiet in the country districts and that
rebels are coming in groups to surrender.
The rebels were not able to show any
success after the first uprising.
The fate of the prisoners is now in the
hands of the government, which possesses
wide powers under martial law. The reb
els who remain recalcitrant will probably
be dealt with severely. The postoffice
has been badly damaged by smoke and
shot. Many prisoners were captured red
handed with weapons.
London, May 1. An official announce
ment states that all rebel leaders in Dub
lin have surrendered.
men and women of Irish birth or sym
pathi.ers who attended muss meeting
here last night under the auspices of tlio
I'nited Irish societies pasned resolutions
of sympathy for the funlui revolution'
isU and thanked (ierinany "for extending
to Ireland as far as the present mill
tarv situation will permit the same kind
of aid "8 was rendered the infant Amer
ican republic by France."
The lmpe wus expressed that tier
many's assistance would become enlarged
to an extent that Ireland might "be rec
ognized as a bolligerent and a place tie
cured for her in the cuiig'csg of nation
which w ill settle the terms of peace.
Mention of the names of John lied
mond, leader of the Irish nationalists.
and ISir Kdward Carson brought forth
many hisses from the audience, vv lulu
reference to Kir Koger Casement caused
cheering that lasted for more than half
a minute.
Every seat In the theatre engaged for
the occasion was filled long before Den
nis A. Spellissy, president of the I'nited
Irish societies, called the meeting to or
der. A crowd fullv twice the size of
that which packed (.he theatre gathered
in Times square, nearby, and re-echoed
the cheers which at Intervals penetrated
the street. 1 hose who attention tne
meeting wore the tri-colored flag of the
revolutionists entwined with the. stars
and Stripes.
It was asserted that Ireland s inui
pcmlenco was necessary to secure the
freedom of the seas for the peaceful
commerce of the world.
G0VERN3IENT SEEKS
CAN CO. DISSOLUTION
Files Motion that ' Properties , of the
American Can Co. Be Disposed Of
and that Injunction Be Placed
On It.
Washington, IX C, May 1. The I'nit
ed States government has filed a motion
for final dissolution decree in its anti
trust suit against the American Can
company in the federal district court at
lialtimore. It asks that' the properties
of the corporation 1 disposed of and
that it be enjoined from acquiring any
interest in mora than one of the concerns
taking over can plants. J,
PROPOSALS
NOT AGREED ON
General Obregon Suggested
That the United States
Troops Withdraw
BUT NO DEMAND
ON THAT WAS MADE
Major-General Scott Pro
posed Co-operation in the
Hunt for Villa
DIED OF GAS ASPHYXIATION.
fight with our aviators who pursued the
machine. The two officers who manned
it were made prisoners."
Berlin, May 1. The German war office
in an official report says:
"A Gorman aviator flying over Verdun
engaged three adversaries-and shot down
one of them."
GEN. TOWNSHEND
RETAINED SWORD
Berlin Reports That the British Forces in
Mesopotamia Had 20,000 Casual
ties in Two Months.
I Berlin, May 1. The numlwtr of casual
ties sustained by the British forces in
Mesopotamia during March and April is
given as 20,000 in a Constantinople dis
patch. Four generals were among the
prisoners. General Townshend retained
liis sword.
TWO TRENCHES CAPTURED.
French Successes Gained at Cumieres
and Near Dead Man's Hill.
London, May I. Success against the
Germans at several points along the
French front are reported in the war of
fice reports given out in Paris yester
day. North of Cumieres, French troops
took possesion of a German trench yes
terday and made 30 prihOners.
Capture of a Gorman trench north cf
Dead Man's Hill, together w ith 53 pris
oners, the ejection of the Teutons from
trenches they had taken near Hamel.
open or closed shop.
The most significant feature of the
year's labor legislation is given by labor
leaders as enactment of workmen's com
pensation laws. The growth nf the-in
dustrial commission plan is considered
of great importance also. This plan
unites in one authority the administra
tion of workmen's compensation, factory
inspection and other labor laws. It was
adopted during the year by Colorado, In
diana, Montana, Nevada and New York.
Unemployment received the attention
of a number of legislatures. Illinois es
tablished a commission on unemploy
ment; California and Nevada investi
gated unemployment conditions and .Ida
ho provided emergency employment
through county boards.
Public employment officers were es
tablished by California, Idaho, Iowa,
New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Illinois,
Michigan and Oklahoma extended their
public employment systems. .Seven
states provided for licensing and super
vising private employment offices.
Uws relating to the employment of
Kingstown, Ireland, April 30, yia Lon
don. May 1, 1:2.5 a. in. The main body
of the .Sinn Fein rebels in Dublin sur
rendered (luring the course of the day.
There was, however, considerable fighting
throughout Surdity in Dublin and the
suburbs. It 1 is especially severe at
Balls Bridge, outside Dublin.
The rebels in the College of surgeons
surrendered this morning. (Ine of the
prisoners taken here was the Countess
Markievicz.
Although the principal leaders of the
rebel movement have laid down their
arms and advised their followers to ac
quiesce in an unconditional surrender,
there is no doubt that there will be still
greater difficulty in restoring peace in
Dublin and the surrounding districts, fur
numerous small bands of rebels evidently
eimer nave noi received ine leaders or
ders, or doubt the authenticity of the
orders, and havo at any rate, determined
to continue guerilla warfare.
Dublin is filled with small bands lo
cated in staunch houses and other build
ings who have always been able to es
cape by subterranean passages as soon
as the attack of the soldiers has' nroved
too strong, and who then reopened hos-
iniiies irom some nexpected quarter.
That the situation in Dublin was still
regarded as dangerous Sunday evening.
Miss Lucy J. Sherman Was a Native of
Waitsfield.
Manchester, X. If., May 1. Miss Lucy
.Jane Sherman, 80 years old, was found
dead in her bed at 3ii7 Wilson street,
about (1 o'chitk Saturday night.
The condition of the body and the fart
that the apartment was filled with the
fumes of illuminating gas pouring from
half turned jet indicated that the wom
an had been dead for probably 24 hours
when her body was discovered and that
her death was due to accidental as
phyxiation.
1 he woman was found by her sister,
Miss Ceiia Sherman, known in Manches
ter as a te.icher of languages, with a
studio at H27 Kim street, who roomed
with her at the Wilson street house but
who md for a short time been absent
from home.
Miss Sherman lacked but a few month?
of her 80th birthday and had for some
time been in a failing and enfeebled con
dition. The opinion was expressed by
the medical attendant summoned upon
the discovery of the body that had Vhe
been younger and in good physiciul con
dition the gas which escaped into the
room would not hive been sufficient to
overcome her to the point of ending her
life.
She was born in Waitsfield, Vt., but
had lecn a resident of Manchester since I vention.
1S!W. During the time she has taught
school intermittently and has acted as
assistant to her sister in her vocation of
language teacher. Beside teaching in the
city, she had charge of schools in Han
over and Burlington, Yt.
The body was turned over to Medical
Referee Watson, who in his report stated
the death to lie due to accidental as
phyxiation.
BURIAL IN ST. 4LBANS.
in
women and children were passed bv a
uu.hu.-. .,.R..s rwBnsHSldeslljtP the UTrf,nder of ma:oritv of
enacted minimum wage laws ami ( all- f1P r.ji. iJ!...,i u .i,.
fornia. Massachusetts and Washington few persons were permitted to penetrate
amended minimum wage laws already in into the city through the rigid military
force. Eleven states now have minimum
wage legislation. Arkansas and Penn
sylvania passed child Ia.bor legislation
during the year.
In the field of safety provision the
most detailed enactments were those for
mulated by the industrial commission of
Wisconsin and the industrial hoards of
New York and Pennsylvania. The sea
men s act, the Alaska and Arizona old
age pension laws and California s ap
pointment of a commission to report.
cordon which surrounds it. A number of
police officers from Kingstown, who went
to Dublin in their uniforms, hoping to be
able to give some assistance, were turned
back by the guards.
NoImxIv is allowed to enter Dublin
without written permission from the
highest authority ami then only at bis
own risk. Moreover, stray bullets are
likely to meet the visitor in some uncx
ported qunrters.
The food situation in Dublin is preca
south of Lassigny. and the repulse ,f j on soeial insurance were other important j rious. Thirt y-four free food depot were
i.ennsn attacks in tne osges i.pon
Irenches at Ban-dc-Sapt. Tete de Faux
nd south of I.argizeii in the lighting
late Saturday and during the night are
also reported.
The official statement issued yester
day by the German army headquarter
in Berlin declares that the French at
tacks on German positions on the east
ern slope, of I ed Man's Hill and ad
joining line, in the Verdun region, went
11 repulsed Saturday night, after tena
tious lighting.
enactments
STEAMSHIP SUNK.
British City of Lncknow Was of 360
Tons.
!xnden. May I. The British steam
ship City of Lucljioir of 3(10 tons gross,
pwnrd t Glasgow, has been sut.k.
LARGE TRANSPORT TORPEDOED.
Germaa Sabmarine Is Reported to Have
Bees SuccctsfuL
IVrli. Way I. A G-rmt submarine
BOSTON MAN NOMINATED.
Arthur E. Reimer Socialist Candidate for
President.
New York. May 1. Arthur K. lieimer
of Boston, .Man.., was nominated I'.t
president of the I'nited States. and Caleb
Harrison of Chicago. III.. s nominated
for vice president by the Socialist I -a
bor party, in convention here Saturday
nig'it. Poth nominations were imam
moil .
A resolution was pushed urging m
ppve to organize inlustriailv "on t!.
principle of the workers of th
national Industrisl union, and do n'l
their power to sJion the fallacy of .r.iit
unionism eieniplified by t! e m.-r . s t
Federation of l-lir," wh-h w.i 'ar - )
tfrirJ - mcr.- " at h j ..m j an ' '
booM-y.'iir -par! v .r;n.Mt i." !
The C"nver:t!..n a,i'-ptc, i l.tr. rm -i '
blaring thst the ni'in-- ( .ri : i- -i i Ve
"ipim he omrd. ..iir't.i n J ,. rttr -li. 3
(opened Sunday, stoked for the most part
i "Hi. Usui . nnuiianncercu irom various
places hv tne military. 1 lie tond is be
ing doled out in tiny portions after a rig
id examination into the necessities of the
applicant.
Food also i very short in Kingstown,
and many of the necc-st ie uf ii pin
not be obtained at gny price.
The proi'lsmet inn i-.iirl by "Provision
al President" PeBr'-e. sihiirg the sur
render of all the rebK was follows:
"In ord-r to prevpnt the further
laughter of unarmed people and in the
hope ot savine the lues of our followers
ho are surrounded and hoe!"--!v out
numbered, the mrmlrni of the prmUjon-
Dr. William Stafford Stevens Died
Boston.
St. Albans, May 1. News was received
yesterday of the death Saturday evening
of Dr. William Stafford Stevens after an
illness of several weeks at his home in
Boston of heart trouble.
Dr. Stevens was a resident of this city
many years, and only a few months ago
sold his estate, "Ingleside," on Smith
street. , He wus the owner of 'Maple
Grange" at Fast Knosburg and the fam
ily had spent most of their summer there
since they went to Boston to reside. Dr.
Stevens had liecn president of the North
ern Telephone company, which has its
headquarters at Knoshurg Falls, since its
organization in lWHi. ami since the same
financial interets Isiught into the Cen
tral Telephone company, with headquar
ters at Ksc Junction, shout ten years
ago, and the Citizens' Telephone com-
panv, witli headquarters at .Morrisville,
about eight years ugo, he had been at
the head of those organizations.
He is survived by his wife and two
sons. Stanford, a student at Yale uni
versity, and Philip, a student at the
Groton (Mass.) school. j
The remains will be brought here and
funeral services will lo held at the Firn
Congregational church Wednesday aft-ern'xm.
Washington, D. C, May 1. Officials of
the war department called the negotia
tions .to date in the Mexican conference
as satisfactory, although dennite, nnai
niposals have not been reached, it is
authoritatively stated. It is admitted
that General Obregon has suggested, but
not demanded, the withdrawal of troops.
Major-General Scott made a counter-pro
ponal,' suggesting co-operative military
measures.
The progress of the negotiations was
not divulged, but from an authoritative
source two things were learned: First,
that the Mexican representatives reiter-
ted the wish expressed in General Car-
ranza's recent note to the Washington
government that the American troop
should bo withdrawn from Mexican soil
ot an early date. Second, that they wero
informed by the American officials that
the latter were not empowered to discus)
the withdrawal of General Pershing'
columns.
It is understood that the American
representatives told the Mexican officials
that if the de facto government insisted
on American withdrawal, the coiifereiic
would go into a deadlock and the whole
mattor would divert to a diplomatic dis
eussion between Washington and Mexico
City.
The Mexicans, it was understood were
further informed that the purpose of the
present conference, so far as the Cnited
States is concerned, is ttie developmen
of a a nee i lie plan for the ro-operation
f the American and de faeto armies in
wiping out the bandit groups that hav
caused so much bloodshed along the bor
der and have repeatedly taken American
life in the interior of Mexico.
It is understood that General Obre
gon, prior to the conference, openly ex
pressed a disinclination to discuss any
other subject than withdrawal and that
ho carried this attitude into the initial
meetinir. After the primary issues ba
leen broached, however, he is reported
to have carried out the intention he an
nounced shortly after his arrival on Fri
day, of meeting Generals Scott and Fun-
ston half wav in the negotiations.
In well informed quarters the opinion
was freely expressed Saturday night that
the present negotiations are unlikely to
lead to anv definite disagreement. It
was pointed out that the Carranza gov
ernment could not afford to take any
step that would endanger its present
peaceful relations with Washington. As
far as the I'nited States was concerned,
it was argued it has consistently held to
a "big brother policy toward the coun
try south of the Kio (iraude and had re
peatedly announced itself against inter-
I3ARRE MACHINISTS
AND EMPLOYERS
AGREE ON BILL
Work Not Suspended To-day Following
Conference Which Continued to a
Late Hour Saturday Night.
Ihirre machinists and employers pame
to terms at a conference Saturday night,
although the details of the agreement?
that is to become effective this inonfb,
were not readv for publication to-day, so
it was reported by the committees. The
conference terminated late in the evlM
ng and with it ended a long series rfunt';
urot.liitionM. I&iclr nf th clHIltl of til JWS
chinists was the feeling that members' of i
their craft are getting top prlces'lor srr
in nor throughout tho country jusi wq.
while it was said for the employers tirtsf
business conditions this year did not wr
rant any radical increase in wages, ins
committee representing the machinists'
union consisted of Ii. H. Wykes, J. J. Jwc
Mahon and M. J. Hhmel, while the shop
owners were represented by Frank L.
Small, W.iA. Lnne, W. M. Ildlden and
K. M. Tobin.
It is' understood that both sides are
well satisfied with the outcome of the
conferences, although at one time it
looked as though the two factions were
hopelessly deadlocked. Differences, how
ever, were composed Saturday night and
all hands were at work to-day. The
shops that would have been affected by a
strike are those of Smith, Whitcomb 4,
ook, Trow & Holden and W. A. Lane.
The agreement to be subscribed to at an
other meeting of the committees is to
continue until one side or the other asks
for a change. The bill of prices expiring
Saturday had been In effect for six years.
LAMAR MUST
60 T0PRIS0N
Supreme 'Cotint Affirms Con-.
Jbederal'GfJUi-t.
TWO YEARS' TErV'f"
TT DUMIT' .V
Ail x ijiUJ
Viriizt fe.Crilty of Inn
TietFVl'nrr'Mpn in
' -'defraud '
it7;..iUry;
TO PLAN CHAUTAUQUA.
El Paso. Tex.. May 1. A resumption
of the border conteretiee may not be un
dertaken until late to-dav or to-morrow
when it is believed the officials in Wash
ington will have had time to digest the
reports. C.enerals Scott and Funston
worked late into the night preparing a
long code message, which was dispatched
to the war department at daybreak. It
is understood that the officers asked per
mission to tate up the question of the
withdrawing of troops.
DOZEN MEMBERS BEARING ARMS.
by th r""p'e in criiir.'
1 imiermm-nt st he hinart-i
?r-ri to uni-ondit ionsl urren !er ;ii. ihr
noimnders of all the nti'ts of t'..- re
iMi.nn f..'. i'I nr..r their fo'.rr
i U .lon thrir am::
"IV arc ."
THANKED GERMANY.
sri of Ir-h in ?fc Y r A'.:t E-
te-del fyrri'ty t Kcb''.-.
V -.!. Mai 1. - 'vn-.l C c-vn'
HELPED DEWEY CELEBRATE
The 1 5th Anniversary cf the Battle of
Manila.
Washington. D. C May I. Admiral
Deaey was today elrat itig the iMh
anniv ersary ot I he ru 1 1 ie o! Maii'U. .
retarv of the Navy Daniels and the oi
ccrs of flie .i!..r. council paid him a
ii- t snd ri're-e,l their pd wi-e.
POSTMASTER ACCUSED
K
!..-; n. V.
s !
A Barre Football Club Paid Tribute to
Them "at the Front."
Twelve members of the Bonaceord
Footliall club are playing a sterner game
on the battietlelds oi trance, according
to the report of the secretary at the an
nual meeting, htdd in the club pavilion
Saturday evening. The names of the
Barre soccer players who have their
"traveling cards from the Bonaceord
that they still retain their association
with the lads back home were read by
the secretary as follows: A. Youngson,
G. Birnie, A, Youuie, A. Stuart. R. Smith,
A. Clark, F. Morrison, .1. Forbea, A. ll
mer, J. Banks, J. Gray, G. Cormack. The
secretary's tribute to the absent ones was
warmly received by the niemliers and the
Bonaceord have every reason to feel j
proud in having so many comrades who!
answered the call.
There was a good attendance at the
meeting and several new names were
added to the membership. Kcporta from
the various committees indicated that
the club is strongly intrenched, financial
ly and w ith respect to numlers. It was
in the eour-e of the secretary's interest
ing review of the year's achievement
that reference was made to the Mbsent
Tirothers at the front. and needless to say.
his auditors aeeord.-d him their most
careful attention.
The foilowing officers ere elected:
President. G. Mowatt; i.-e president. .1. !
Cobban: secretary and treasurer. A. W. j
torma.k; captain, W. Kerr; piopertyj
manaper, Mcl-n. Further ehntion;
of ofiiers deferred until the next
me ting. A smoke t!k followed the bus-ine-s
meeting and judging by the enthu-
ia-m hown by the members the prs
(xvts for a suevsiul season, sow-tally at
all events, are even lctter than la--t year.
Regsrdiiu? eocrer f"tb:ill no action
Barre is Promised Some Very Interesting
Attractions.
A meeting for the purpose of organiz
ing a Community Chautauqua movement
in Barre will 13 held at the city court
room tins evening, beginning at
'clock, and the sponsors of the move
ment are hoping for a large attendance
of men and women. It is planned to hold
e Chautauqua in Barre for hve days, be
ginning with August 2, programs being
ndered morning, afternoon and even-
ng. Die programs win ne given in
large water-proof tent seating more than
a thousand people, the tent to be pitched
in some convenient location.
This course has already been booked in
about " prominent cities and t6wns
in New England, Long Island and in New
York City. The same program will be
given here as on Broadway in New York,
in Bangor and Augusta, Me., and Con
cord and Nashua, N. H. The program
includes many notable attractions, among
them, Frederick Waidc, the eminent
Shakespcriitn tragedian, Ole Tlieobaldi,
the famous Norwegian violinist and Vic
tor's Florentine band and Neapolitan
Troubadours ; also Lee Francis Lybarger,
a l'lnladeipnia lawyer, wno win lecture
on "Pork Barrel Legislation," Andre Tri
don who will give "An Inside View of
Mexico," Dr. Euclid B. Rogers of Spring
field, 1U who w ill lecture on "A Living
or a i-.it a.
Special plans have been made for tho
boys and girls in a morning Chautauqua
in which thev will enjov games, picnics,
a story telling hour and a score of in
teresting things. This junior Chautau
qua will be in charge of a trained play
director, whose duty it will be to Bee
that the boys and girls sre given a big
time while the Chautauqua is in session.
The committee's plan is to mal;e the
Chautauqua as much a community at-
fair as possible, and they will begin a
thorough canvas for the the sale of sea
son tickets about a month beiore tne
date, and an efficient advertising cam
paign will be carried on throughout the
surrounding country.
Washington-, "D. C, May 1. The su
preme court affirms the conviction of Da
vid Lamar in the New York federal court)
on charges of impersonating Represents
tive Palmer and J. P. Morgan and others,
with intent to defraud. Lamar is under
sentence to serve two years in the peni-'
tentiary, and to-day's action is the final
word in the courts.
FOUR SALOONS OPEN
But Other Seven Were Not Doing Bus
iness for Various Reasons.
Barre took its Monday morning eye
opVner in the usual homeopathic dose to
day in spite of the fact that the legalized
sale of liquor was on for the first timn
in eight years. Only four of the firsb
and second class places welcomed visitors
to-day. Some of the licensees inhibited
from doing business to-day will not open
until Wednesday, or until after hearings
on their transfer applications have been
held. The hearings are to be held at citv
hall Tuesday morning st 9 o'clock. Other
licensees were unable to open to-day on
account of unavoidable delays, so it i
improbable that the entire 11 licenses
will be operative before next Monday.
At a meeting of the license commis
sioners Saturday night licensees wersi
furnished with lists tliat lare to be posted
in every first and second class place.
Persons whose names are inscribed on
the list, and their number is 300, if not
legion, will have a hard time of it if they
attempt to purchase. To the list habit
ual drunkards, etc., and indigents were
contributed by Barre and Montpclier city
judges and charity overseers.
Order prevailed wherever liquor places
were opened this morning. No arrest
for intoxication had been made early this
afternoon and the police were confident
that the opening day would pass without
disturbance. The customary restrictions
with reference to opening and closing
have been placed on the licensees.
DIED AT ADVANCED AGE.
SPEEDED HORSE ON BROOK STREET
Xavier Parent Found Course Better Than
on the West HilL
Sunday horse racing on Brook street
came to a switt climax yesterday wnen
officers from police headquarters, having
been notified by residents of that thor
oughfare, broke up the practice of using
the street as a speedway bv arresting
Xavier Parent, who lives on west hill.
The police made the deduction that a
otse race is robbed of some of its inter
est if there be only one to race and the
next move was to seek the other prin-
iple in the ease. But the second racer
hose name is known to the authorities,
nd fled the course. He is a resident of
Montpclier, the officers say. This morn
ing Parent pleaded guilty to a charge of
racing horses on the street, a charge pre
ferred against him by Grand .Juror Wil
liam Wishart. the complaint alleging that
the man had violated one of the city or
dinances. Magistrate 1L W. Scott im
posed a fine of .$.' and costs of $7.30.
which the respondent paid.
Matt Reeves of I'tica, X. Y., and
George Elrick of this city, who escaped
from the state hospital at Waterbury
three weeks ago. were rounded up in
Barre vestordav bv Chief Sinclair and
Officer J. S. Murley. Elrick was placed
on prolmtion in city court some months
ago and turned over to the probation of
ficer for treatment at the state hospital.
This morning it appeared that the hos
pital authorities were not anxious to
have the youth Iwick with them and he
was given his liberty, with instructions
to report regularly to the probation offi
cer. Reeves, who was committed from
Burlington city court to be freated for
dipsomania, was placed in the custody of
C. A. Smith, the probation officer, who re
turned him to Waterbury. It i stated
that the state authorities favored trans
ferring Elrick to the Iioum- of correction
on the ground that he violated the eondi
tionn of his parole in leaving the hos
pital.
Joseph Mastroani wa arrested thi
morning on a mittimus placed in the
hands of Chief Sinclair by Magistrate
Scott. Mastroani. who was arrested Feb.
17 on a breach of peace charge, was held
t pay the remainder of the rt in
curred in the eae. He paid.
Mrs. Mary Jane Worthen's Death Due to
General Breaking Down.
Mrs. Mary Jane Worthen, wife of the
late Linus L. Worthen, who was found in
an unconscious state by neighbors at her
home on east hill a week ago, passed
away at the City hospital Sunday morn
ing at 10 o'clock. Mrs. Worthen had
been in declining health for several
months and the end was ascribed to a
general breakdown. She was removed to
the hospital April 24. The remains were
taken to the mortuary chapel of B. W.
Hooker & Co. It is expected that the fu
neral will be held Wednesday at ths
home of W. E. Sanborn, 166 Washington
street, although final arrangements will
not be made until a sister of the de
ceased, Mrs. L. G. Thompson, arrives in
Barre from Boston. Mrs. Thompson was
notified of her sister's demise last night.
The remains will lie taken to Plaintield
for interment in the family lot in the
village cemetery.
Mrs. Worthen was born in Flainlie.u,
July 11, 1835, and was therefore Hear
ing her 61st birthday. In 1K67 she cams
to Barre to reside and had made her
home on east hill for the past 4!) year.
Her husband's death occurred in IfWHi.
Mrs. Worthen leaves two sisters. Mrs.
Thompson and Mrs. Sarah I'pton of Il
linois. Mrs. Sanborn is a granddaugh
ter of the deceased.
DEATH OF ALBERT HOLDEN.
Former Resident of Barre Passed Away
at Lowell, Mass.
S. II. Barnes of Highland avenue re
ceived a telegram this morning advising
him of the death of Albert Holdeu. a foe- -mer
resident of Barre and for many
years a prominent Boston laundry roan,
which occurred at the home of his si-der.
Mrs. If. J. Conant, in xwell, Mass., yes
terday. The remains will be brought tj
Barre Tuesday morning and interment
will be made in the family lot at Elm
wood cemetery.
The deceased was a son of the late Mr.
and Mrs. Lucius Holden. who former!;'
lived in South Barre. Besides the sister
living in lxwell, be leaves a sister in
Paris. France, (.'eorge F. Howe of South
Main Ftreet is a cousin of the deceased
and B. P. Wil'ey is a kinsman. Mr.
Holden left Barre manv years ago and
his most recent visit to his former home
here was on the ores a ion of the death of
his mother some years ago.
f Xor.rf Orer.
taken, bet it is Imped thit oth.-r clubs! ELECTRICALLY DRIVEN.
rv uarzea ttli Ceover- 'h1 ' M,k !wr ,n i""1'" i'"i xsscr,
Ic.cnie wi.l .!o tbeir share in rerivmc tn ; United States' New Submarine Launched
. .... . . . r urr. It . w. . with, i
1. ! ti!Mst, r .Ijurs r jniit Mjir.y that t'e B pacor. even a j
;'i 1 i in- n i. sr:r-t- .I, -tiir iv 12. .'e- tini; always to bej Brejiort. I nun, M-ty I. Th sub-
t m.! fnl -n'-r- J w l.r the fray i thi lot. N tm.k t: cm- j marine I. 5. burt for t! I'nited State.
or V t t.ifi.!r !h j wive tn t!- mother ruuntry n tt-e NurS Ijrnn- -! to dv. 1 1 re i an oil
j hej jot a ot let pTii. are ready t. do I'lcr part butnirj rr.;-r !r the -t;r:a. and it i
in i i.f..-t' e !rr je oo i'.s feet egaiii. rlcctrK:' ilrma In a t ubrixTje.J.
300 STRUCK AT H0LY0KE
When Contractors Refused Demands of :
$2.50 a Day.
Holyofce, M, May I. Three hun
dred laborers here went on strike to-day, ,
uhen the contractors refused their de
mands for $2-'s a day.
PLEADED NOT GUILTY.
Engineer Mansfield Charged with Man
slaughter. West Kiij'ton. P,. I.. Mr I Engineer
Man-felJ t-f the (i!t Jlde Kxprea plead
e! not guilty today to too tniu tmenta
. hargie man-Taiii-Mer as the resu't of
te New Haven rai pad re. V at B;a4- '
i ri.
0
