iMtitatv
NIGHT
NIGHT
EXTRA
iCXtti
Li VOL. II NO. 94
'HUMOR AND
v Above, the Silver Crown Club is
BRITISH LINER
OFF EGYPT; MANY LIVES LOST;
AMERICAN CONSUL ON BOARD
Nationality of U-Boat Not Known.
Many Women and Children Among
300 Passengers
No War
LONDON, Jan. 1.
The bis Peninsular and Oriental liner
Persia was torpedoed In the Mediter
ranean Sea on Thursday afternoon with
tremendous loss of life by a submarine,
the nationality of which Is unknown.
The Persia was sunk oft the Egyptian
'coast, southeast of the Island of Crete,
Recording to advices received here.
Among the first class passengers on
board were Robert 'N. McNeely, United
Etatea Consul at Aden, Arabia, and Daron
John Walter Edward Douglas Montague,
of Deaulieu,
Four boatloads of the Persia's surviv
ors were picked up by a steamship bound
for Alexandria. It Is believed they were
landed at Alexandria tins morning.
Officials of the Una stated positively
that there were no war materials aboard
the liner.
The. Persia left London December IS.
Bhe touched at Marseilles and left that
Port on December 2G.
It was estimated this afternoon that
between 75 and 200 persons lost their lives,
including many women and children.
Ottlclals of the company later gave out
inn estimate that there were about 231
f passengers aboard. Including 80 women
,f pud 23 children. Besides American Con
sul General McNeely ,two other Ameri
cans. Charles H. Grant and Edward
WQse,. were passengers vc m uiict
Caatlnura on rase 1'uur, Column Three
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
V
V
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Vartly cloudy tonight and Saturday,
Itvith slowly risinp temperature; Sumt
Iday unsettled with probably rain or
l snow; light variable winds.
I,OST ND FOUND
ant.
I i.u ir-iil... TWe 31 eold curb
bx rrom ran ana ibmhuui iu
Ufaiket. Howard ( returned to
lfi'1 & l'o . 802 Cbsntliut
in i
r . .... ..
U n r cijmi n- ii iii j ott ran 'I 9i "
Montague Glass'
SPLENDOR ALTERNATE IN COLORFUL PARADE OP NEW YEAR
shown as it appeared in the line of
TORPEDOED
. Ship Carried
Material
.WASHINGTON, Jan. l.-A new and
most serious submarine controversy to
day confronted tho United States In the
torpedoing ot the British Peninsular and
Oriental liner Persia in the Mediterran
ean. Hot on tho heels of the virtual
settlement of the Ancona case with
Austria the sinking of the Persia, revived
tension.
Presence aboard the Persia of Ameri
can Consul It. M. McNeely, of Aden, en
route to his post, added to the serious
ness of the situation.
The StatsTepartment received reports
fioin American" Consul General Skinner,
at London, regarding the sinking of the
Persia, and that Consul McNeely was a
passenger, and other Americans were be
lieved to be qn hoard. Skinner said most
of the passengers perished. McNeely's
fate was In doubt. If the American diplo
mat met death, the attack upon the Persia
promises to make one of the most acute
and serious issues which the Government
has yet had to face.
President Wilson and Secretary Lansing
gave the Peraja disaster their personal
attention. The President was promptly
sent every scrap of information received
at the State Department
While ofllclals were openlv amazed at
the attack on the Persia, particularly so
shortly after the transmission of Austria's
reply on the Ancona case, they were dis
posed to withhold judgment and comment
until the facts are mow fully ascertained.
They especially were interested in
whether the Persia was warned and her
passengers given opportunity to reach
Continued on 1'uge lour. Column Tno
False Fire Alarm Hreaks Up Parade
When the mummers' parade arrived at
Broad and Tusker streets today, some
person pulled the tire box at that corner.
The engine and trueks hurried through
Broad street anil Jgajdjtr avenue, and for
a time the ornitMMi of the parade
was broken up- Tn excitement of the
searcb for dre nearly caused a riot
In tl crowds before it became known
that 11 e ftlmu was fUe.
Characters Diskss Christmas on
march. Below, are two selections from
1916, LEAP YEAR,
ROARED IN WITH
WILD REVELRY
Great Crowds Throng tp
City's Centre Hotels
Scene of Gaiety
LASTS TILL WEE HOURS
This la a bigger llttlo year than we
thought It was. There is an extra day
In It. Counting last nig' t there are two
extra days In It. The ono that Is going
to be tucked In at the end of February,
to be known as February 29, will not bo
nearly so eventful as last night. Perhaps
because this Is a leap year they made
more of Its entry Into history than Is
usual.
Every patriotic child, girl, boy, woman
and man was out with a horn. Most ot
the horns were painted red, white and
bluo, but It was not patriotism for Amer
ica that the people tooted; it was some
thing greater than that; It was patriot
Ism for the universe, which was turn
ing over a new leaf. The city was cheer
ing something more than the stars and
'stripes; It was cheering the stars.
EVEItYBODY MAKES FRIENDS.
It must be fascinating to dust the face
of a total stranger with a feather duster
at the corner of Broad and Chestnut
streets. Thousands of faces, few of
which were strikingly handsome, were as
carefully dusted oft as If Jhey were the
valuable marblo features of the Apollo
Belvidere or the Venus de Mllo. It was
symbolic of the cleansing change which
New Year's stands for the spirit of noble
resolution, of putting ona new face.
But, more than that. It showed how
Important was this festival, which Phila
delphia makes more of than any other
city so Important that for an hour or
two everything turned topsy-turvy and
one did not claim even the usually ac
knowledged privilege of keeping his nose,
eyes and ears as private property, but
joyouMy aecti I the tickling of the lit
tle ted fggithe. ousters and sneezed and
chortled and stuck out his chin for more.
Foi jb Itriet hour the word "stranger"
had i meaning
It was a clear, dry night. The people
who drink too much nearly every night In
the car did It again last nlcht. But. s
a rule, the- kept themselves oft the
streets ; they were hidden away in solemn,
gilded looiue The guy, fresh streets, the
rich and ruer night, the spicy air they
left these to the children, as In former
years. It was the chlldrtn's night, the
one In, which are always suie to be at
lowed to uy up late It a census had
been tajten of the crowds It would have
Cnntluued on V Three, Column Two
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, 191 G.
the comic division. The baseball players belong to the M. A. Bruder Club.
$250,000 BLAZE
IN WILMINGTON
FURNITUREPLANT
Foard - Massey Company
Building Burned Cause
Is Not Determined
TWO NEW YEAR'S FIRES
WILMINGTON, Del., Jan. 1. File
which caused damage of :00,COa destroyed
the Foord-Massey Furniture Company
building, at 7th and Shipley streets, to
day. It was the feeond Hre of the early
morning.' the first having damaged the
warehouse ot tho Charles Warner Com
pany. Tho flro originated In the third Door
of the Shipley street building and used
by the Foord-Massey company as Its up
holstering department, but Robeit Foord.
president of the fjrm, who Was at tho
scene shortly after the nlarm was turned
In, said he did not know the cause. The
police are of the opinion that spontaneous
combustion was caused by the large quan
tity of paint and varnish stored on the
third floor.
When the tire was discovered smoke
was Issuing from the roof of the John T.
Feeney Company building, which ad
joins the Foord-Massey Shipley e'reet
property. Qu.K notion tiy the tiremen
prevented the flames from reaching the
Feeney store, although It Is believed it
may have suffered considerable damage
ftom smoke and water.
For moro than three hours the Foord
Massey property was ablaze, with the
Homes bhootlng high, Into the air and
licking the sides of the apartment house
on 7th and Oinuge strvets.
More than 200 persons, Including many
women, some of whom were scantily clad,
witnessed tho tire. In ordar that water
might be put through the window, Robert
Foord, head of the concern, climbed a
SO-foot ludder and shot holes: In the win
dows with a revojver- The damage is
fuly covered by Insurance. The building
was a ilve-story structure, 4 once used as
a theatre.
The tire In the Charles Warner ware
house had Just been extinguished when
firemen were called to the Foord-Massey
tlre. One side of the warehouse was
burned and the damage yII( reach $10,000,
On account of the Foord-Massey tir.
which liiemen tie still watching, the
i Seventh street lino of trolley cars had
i to be abandoned,
Fifty Years a Fireman; Resigns
SCRANTON. Pa., Jan. I. - Henry V.
Ferber, superintendent of the Bureau of
Fires, retired from oltlctfloUay. after com
pleting 60 consecutive years hr'the lire
department, the larft SO of hlch were
spent in the oltice he relliuiuls'jvs.
f-
Page 5; Kazan,"
MUMMERS
MUMMERS VIE
IN SHOWING
WORLD EVENTS
Broad Street a Splendid
Scene as 12,000 March in
Glittering Army
VIVID AND SPECTACULAR
An army of happiness chasing the
gloom.
Such was the mummers' paradn today.
What words can picture It? Color,
gaiety, music and enthusiasm all blended
together by fully 12,000 merry marchers
made Philadelphia's .own big show a
pacemaker which will live long In
memory.
Regulnr New Year's Day weather pre
vailed until 12:15. when a very light flurry
of snow followed by rain fell Just as the
Talbot String Band wes turning City
Hall. Most of the crowd, who were vet
ei an mummer looters, held until the last
club In line passed- I'mbrellas popped
up hero and there, and the majority took
the rainfall as a matter of course.
From Porter street to Glrard avenue
Broad stiect was an Immense stage,
upon which the doings of the entire world
were graphically shown In picturesque
and daring originality. And the con
stant laughter and applause when echoed
from thQ thousands who packed the side
walks nttested appreciation. It would
havo brought Joy even to the heart
of a Henry Fold, for all nations inarched
along arm and arm. German barons
danced with French lieutenants, Turk
ish dignitaries laughed with English
lords and Russia! general mingled hap
pily nlth Austiian dUmtarles.
NEUTRALITY THE KEYNOTE.
Bringing the spiiii of peace closer
home there were ferocious-looking
Indians cavorting with diaphanous chorus
gills, and brigandish Mexicans dancing
vigoiously with Uncle Sam'a cowboys.
And everywheie you looked there were
clowns, clonns and clowns. Some ot
these were not as foolish as they looked,
for they wore glittering lalment which
will undoubtedly Hgure In the prize money
to be awarded as the city's apprecla
lion.
The mummers dealt candidly with ques
tions which are puzzling rulere, diplomats
and peacemakers, and they took a lUng,
too, at thing, at home to show that they
were both broad-minded and neutral.
The world of industr. the fads and
fancies of women the dreams of castle
builders and Inventois did not escape the
mimics.
There were Governors In petticoats and
Continued on 1'uce Two, Column One j
a Tale of Love, a
ConmoiiT. 101B, i the Fcmo Lrnor CoMriNt.
EXTRA!
vmZB WINNERS IN
PARADE OF MUMMERS
FANCY DIVISION
First Mae, ?650
fcOSSSflil N1SW YEAK ASSOCIATION
Second lrlo, $400
Ctt&t.B KLEtti NEW IfEAlt ASSOCIATION
Tttlrd Prlae, ?200
g t tSB QllOWK 2SW YEAtt AgSSOOIATION
Fourth l'riae, $130
COMIC DIVISION
Ehsl Prize, $Gt30
mffim OAl'S
Sepoad 3?rizo, $350
5. A. BRtlDEn NEW YEAH ASSOCIATION
Third Trize, ?200
aU55TJ NEW YEAB ASSOCIATION
Fourth Prize, S1CO
B. K. OSWALD NEW YEAR ASSOCIATION
Pifth Trizc, $75
2TABKY WAEE NEW YEAR ASSOCIATION
Sixth Prize, ?CO
SAUEK KRAUT BANE, OP POTTSVILLE, PA.
CniLD DIES OP HYDROPHOBIA
RncheJ Cohen, 0 years old, of J2G24 South Franklin street, died
of hydrophobia this nlternoon In the Polyclinic Hospital. Accord
ing to physlcinng this Is the first death of hydrophobia recorded thlsi
winter. She was bitten by n homeless dog; nt 20th and Pine streets!
p. week ago.
CABINET UNABLE TO AGREE ON CONSCRIPTION BILL
LONDON,' Jan, 1. The Cablnot was unable to agree upon the
4 orat ttti-ooMficeipUon 1)111 Jjs to take n yesimday.'s aion. Atoather
tnentiug will be held early next week. .-
SALONICA SHELLED BY AEROPLANES
PAKIS. Jan. 1, Salonien. wrta shelled by aeroplanes on Thurs-'
i! iy, it i , officially announced today. Heavy artillery flro is re
j.uited fium the DortutnollOB.
WIRELESS DISPELS FEAR FOR SHIP'S SAFETY
NEW YORK, Jan. 1. The Greek
fears have been felt. Is safe In tow
making her way toward New York,
today from tho coast guard cutter IJeneca.
"WITH GOD, FOR GERMANY," KAISER'S GREETING
nKRLIN (via Amsterdam), Jan. L Kaiser Wllhelm toduy Hent the fol
lowing New Year's greeting to tho men
the colonials:
"Comrades, ono year of severe lighting has elapsed. "Wherever superior!
enemies hayo tried to rush our lines
and bravery everywhere I sent you Into battle you were gloriously victorious.
"Thankfully, wo remember today above all the brethren who Joyfully gave
their blood to gain security for their beloved ones, their homes and the Im
perishable glory of the Fatherland.
"What thoy began wo shall accomplish. We enter the new year with
Clod for the protection of the fatherland mid for Germany's greatness."
VON PAPEN ARRIVES AT LISBON
LONDON, Jan. 1. The Holland-America liner Noordam, bearing Captain
Franz von Papen, the recalled military attache of tho German Embassy at Wash
ington, has arrived at Lisbon, according to a dispatch today to the Exchange
Telegraph. The Noordam sailed from Hoboken December 21, bound for Rot
terdam. Von I'apen carried a safe conduct from tha State Department.
TEUTONIC ALLIES PROTEST AGAINST CONSULS ARREST
ATHENS, Jan. 1. The Central Powers, with Turkey and Bulgaria, today
made a collective protest to the Greek Goernment regarding the arrest of
their Consuls at Salonlca. Premier Skouloudls made formal reply that Oreeie
already had lodged complaint with England and Frnnce. The German, Aus
trian, Turkish and Bulgarian Consuls at Salonlca were placed under arrest
by order of General fiarrall, commander of tho Anglo-French forces, Skouloud'.s
said. French nnd British troops surrounded the Consulates and trade tho
arrests after a German aeroplane attack on the city.
KING CONSTANTINE TO GO UNDER KNIFE
ATHENS, Jnn. 1. King Constantlne will be operated n today or to-i.or-row.
Professor Strauss, the German s,peolallst who attended the King J "
Ing the summer, accompanied by Professor Esselberg, is expected to arrive
here late today to perform the operation.
KING GEORGE PRAISES FRENCH IN NOTE TO POINCARE
LONDON, Jan. 1. King George has sent a New Year's telegram t presi
dent Polncare, of France, In which he says: "Our two countries are united,
in common with our allies. In the prosecution of a great cause, and it is a
source of unfailing gratification to me that the two people are bound tu
gether by ties which the heroism and sacrifices of our gallant so'dlt r anil
sailors have rendered Indissoluble. I beg you to accept on behalf of m seif
nnd my empire most cordial greetings to the great nation over which you pre
side nnd an expression of my deep admiration for the splendid qualities of the
lnd and sea forces of France, which hav bean In this war of such IneaUmabla
value and which offer a sure guarantee of ultimate victory."
AUSTWANS DROP GAS BOMBS ON ITALIAN POSITIONS
ROME. Jan. 1. The following olllou.1 statement was tssaed by the ltujlao
War OIBce today:
"On the whole front artillery combats are In progress. The enemy I
employing; the use of asphyxiating bombs, dropping many on our posUIohb la
the Daona Valley and on the left bank pf the Chlese.
Bog and Adventure, Is onge 7
PRICE ONE OENQl
steamship Thessalonlku. for which prave
of the Greek ship Paris, and is sloW
according to a rndiograni received here
of tho German army and navy and ,
tliey have failed. Before your loyaltyl
,'
Si
