May
Be Yours
|j|So.' Far Indicate That But Four Boats Succeeded
petting Away Before the Ship Went Down??
HH Bound From London to Bombay.
(By Associated Press.)
).6>N. ' January 1?The British liner Persia on Her
rom Loridon to Bombay was torpedoed and sunk off
?^mf^Grete Thursday afternoon at one o'clock, and
cecelv.eid here indicate that moSt of her passengers
rare lost, only four boats getting away before
0Wxi.(
the,-passengers when she left England were a
.^onericans including Robert McNeeley of Mon
^American consul at Aden, Charles H. Grant, <?n
a3?|fr'6rri -London to Bombay and Edward Rose, a
jbpy^gdihg from Denver to Gibraltar. . It is believed
lose|left the ship at Gibraltar:
Persia which was owned by the Peninsula and Ori
i&amship company left Bombay Nov. 14 and was
Sorted, fro mGibraltar Deicember 2.
'ig to Lloyds she was on her return voyage to
framed 160 passengers from London but some of
land at Gibraltar, Malta or Marseilles while
t named port she took on 231 passengers of whom
Wmen and 25 children. No official figures were
rare of the exact-number of persons aboard when
^ pas lost. . .
ersia was. built in 1900 at Greenock. She has been
SjejaBomljay service since that time. On account of the
||rrfrpm submarines to vessels which passed through
jPffcanal and Mediteranean sea this route has been
aned by the Japan mail steamship company which
sa&hing its'steamships around the Cape-of Good
Aerates for vessels passing through the-Suez ca
reen .increased by ;the European underwriters to
four, times the normal rate. ?
fpinner
)r the Firemen
iS-V ?
WSERVED TO THE LAD
.THEIR QUARTERS
\8T NIGHT.
Bfc.fSWSf ??
fireman of ^the Fairmont de
liking around today and
. do you think I weigh?",
ey have ^gained a llttlo
ish'ed and' the boys take turn about
chasing the monkey around the depart-,
ment to grive, It.it'a daily dip. ? But the
weight taken on over nigbt has not
been accounted for so It Is left to ex
plain that the moving picture heroes
were diilfed last night while watching
the oid yoat out and -New Year in.
It was no regular feed either for be-1
low is printed the menu:
Cream of Celery Soup. ;
Hearts of Celery Dill Pickles
Roast Cheat Mountain Turkey:
Oyster Dressing . Cranberry Sauce
Snowflake Potatoes ? Baked Beans
I Bread . _ Butter 'ft ?,
? Fruit Cake Coffee is
Cigars .... . .-.ClgaretteBf',',
PROSPERITY FOR THE NATION; VICTORY
FOR THE PARTY IN 1916, SAYS HATFIELD
At the request of the editor of
the Financial and 'Industrial Re
view Edition of the Pittsburgh
Dispatch Governor Henry D. Hat
field furnished the following fore
cast of the New Year as he sees
It:
III acknowledgingyour invitation to
enter: the/ranks ot the prophets and
astrologers and to cast West: Virgin
ia's horoscope for the coining year, i
irdo." pitiless to be either^^'propKet
S?ji?ES3? of a prophet, bututi seems
tSDntCl^eqa>re no^oc^lC^wor' S"
'divination-to, foresee for all: the region
of Appalachia, and for the jvhole.coun;.
;trylk"ah'economic,, aft'd iiidus^riar. situ
ation "Which should; put prosperity
within the reach of all our people.'
When the great masses of men and
women who produce commodities, the
farmers and the laborers in our mines
and mill" and forests, and the work
ers who handle our great agencies of
transportation and distribution, are all
busy at good wages, the country can.
not be otherwise than industrially
properous, an bring reports from every
quarter bring tidings ot good cheer
as to business conditions in the great
fundamental industries.
A period of good times and of ex
panding business activity is opening
before us, and there are Indications
that it will also bo a period of rap
idly expanding national Influence for
our Government and our people among
the Nations ot the earth. We have
heard of the new nationalism, and it
seems to me that the times are ripe
for the regime of a new international
Ism in world politics, an approach to
Tennyson's "Federation of the World,"
I
KILLED Oil 1. II0.
Fell From Top of One Car
Under the Wheels of
Another.
? Stewart Viycent, of the First ward,
was accidently killed this 'morning In
the Baltimore & Ohio yards when he
fell from the top of a box car and. was
run over by a truck of the. car fafollow
ing the one on which he was standing.
Vincent was 33. years old and has
been in the eirsploy of the Baltimore
& Ohio here for the past eight years
in the capacity of brakeman and extra,
conductor. i . .....
,The body was taken to Jenkins
Undertaking Establishment on the
East side where'lt will bs prepared for
burial."'' ?
The dead man's back was broken
and bottf.legs crushed. The other
members of the crew saw the accident
and claim'that the death was almost
instantaneous., ? - ? ? v '
Mrs, M. Y, Hamilton
Dies in 80th Year
Mrs. Melissa Yost Hamilton, widow
af the late James U. Hamilton and one
of the best known residents of'Man
nington district died, at her ho.me this
morning at 11 o^clock. ..' ,
Mrs. Hamilton who was born near
Fairvlew eighty year" ago 1b survived
by six children living in Mannington
and Mannington .district. They are
Alvin L? Or. M. F. and Charles,-Mrs.
?W. A. Crowl, Mrs. Elba RenBhaw aid
L. C. Barr.
the 'Hamilton family cemetery
ill which the United States should be
prepared to hear honorable and ser
viceable part
As we are about to enter upon a
Presidental campaign year,, no fore
cast could be complete without -a
glance through the political facet of
.the crystal of/divination. It se'em*
to me that unmistakable signs of the
times point to ,the probable return
of the Republican party to full con
trol of-the', functions of government.!as;
"theSsurest;;6igBs of. perpetuating in-'
diistfial.'proBperity which unprecedent
eil?world conditions and events have:
;jthru?ttnpwi|ny. ?
r^ItTloofeSj'Jtoime .like a .Republican
year for West Virginia, anil J. JjdJya
the^sirile^coiSitions prevail through
ou^-tep.reglcfifofJStfi^atid]?.and|tfee
'greater part of our beloved country.
I look forward to a: Republican vic
tory in'1916 aB the bfest guaranty of a
policy and program of preparedness
which will mean something more than
the "sharp sword -and bright armor"
of the German Emperor, more than
the mere augmentation of our naval
and military strength, necessary and
desirable as that augmentation may
be. I hope and believe that as a re
sult of Republican victory in 1916,
we may be assured in larger measure
of that national preparedness which
springs from social efficiency, that we
may make progress in the patient
working out of these political and
economic problems which have to do
with the larger measure of social
justice.
"the nobler modes of life.
With sweeter manners, purer laws."
for which the whole world "groan
eth and travaileth together in pain
until now."
E
T
Carrying the Stuff in Label
ed Grips No Longer
Possible.
The injunction against the Balti
more and Ohio railroad effected In
Mineral county court December 28 to
prevent that company handling Buit
cases labelled with liquor has been
bulletined at the Fairmont station of
the B. & O.. It is comprised of three
parts as follows: Part (a) which' re
fers to pasengers boarding trains with
suit cases, labelled as containing;IK
quor within, the borders of West'Vir
ginia. 'V- '? i*
Part (b) which instructs employees
of the railroad to take the, ?ult care;
or container of lntoxicants'\(if >labe'.l-1
;ed) and;put such- container oft at the:
first station-where there is an agent.
The liquor is left in the care of , the
agent and Fred O. Blue's.office'noti
fied. That completes the duty7 of the;
railroad." ^ , . S
r-Part (c) refers to pasengers board
ing trains outside of West'JVirg'inla'.l
and'states that employees of the rail-,
?road "must' notlfy"perso'ns owning la-!
belled suit case, trunks or iother ar
ticles of baggage that the West (Vir
ginia. laws provide that the, railroad
must put such suit cag.es, etc., off at
'the first agent station wlthlifthe state'
? The Weather.
West. Virginia?Cloudy, probably
rain; not much change in temperature:
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS.
- 'Jr.' P. Hall, Obterver.
minimum; 84';,
I In that wide field of vision which
covers our International relations, this
year on which we are just entering
promises ' to yield wonderful oppor
tunities^, or the development o? our
ocean-going trade and-commerce. The
events of'the'great war have sudden
ly restored the' flag of the . United
States: to something of it's ancient
.prestige on the high seas. It behooves
.lis to make-every honorable effort, to
:toaintain;arid' protect ,that>cbmmerclal
-?advantage. ... ^? , ? ?
~ Here again I look forward with
^ighrliotiatlocfheneflclalvrejJultfljfroni
3h?^^'reoMted"CRfiputilIoan-:vlctory.
^lies^oll^r^v.l.'.'&qieciion'' should
Thean ;more to our people than ever
^Mt^.'I^ffl1t^Wl?6.5^';'wlder'c6n"
notation with the national aiid;>intei>,
national readjustments tfratmust 'fol
low the closflVof- European war and
the tTade changes that will come with
the world-wide . use of the Panama
[ Canal. It will come to mean, not only
a tariff system sufficient for the de
fense of our standards, but on admin
istrative policy as t* foreign affairs
capablc of maintaining by prompt ac
tion, as well as of asserting In appro
priate phrases, the rights of our citi
zens to life, liberty and property on
land or sea, wherever they may have
occasion to go about their lawful bus
iness.
In West Virginia, then, we are look
ing forward to 1916 as a Republican
year, a year that shall usher in a new
era of properous national develop
ment of advance toward the new in
ternationalism?the parliament of man
and a year that shall be conspicuous
for its gains along the lines of social
progress.
Very truly yours,
HENRY D. HATFIELD.
FIRST MILITARY
BALL A SUCCESS
Decorations and Appoint
ment Contributed to En
joyment of Guests.
The sound of a gun salute simul
taneous with the flutter of the Stars
and Stripes from the celling of the ar
mory to the orchestra stand In the cen
ter of the. hall, ;was. an. effective an
nouncement that the Military Ball,
given.* last night :by the officers -,'ot
the 'local , companies , of the Nation
al Guards was. begun. The event, the
first annual.military, ball; was a sue'
ce'aB frbm -start "to finish.- It was at
tended by Va number of out-of-town
'guests," in addition .to.(many residents
I ot the city, the event having be_en rec
ognized as the largest social event of'
importance transpiring during the
hbliiJay..,Beas6n..<?,.. .. . . ..
Before the grand march started at
9:30Ja;clj>cj5TTaftit..wh1ch _ was_led. by
General and Mrs. , John Bond ot
Charleston, a reception was held, Gen
eraTand" Mrs.^Btrad receiving togeth
er with visitingjjofflcers and'the'pa-;
tronesses. ,A;;splendid program of 18,
regular dances"witfiifour^specialB.rthe
National, Guard, cYuletlde, Rapid Fire
and 'Adjutant General waB given. Dur
ing an intermission at eleven o'clock
aj salad supper was.'.served and' the
dancing^ continued until; well into the
New Year. ' : \ f>. r.MB
I'JIhe '?rmory which had been in the
hand" ;of ; the decorators for" weeks
prior to the event lqst .night was most
attractively arranged; THe . painters
had completed' an attractive color
arrangement ,in\r battle ship grey
against which-the red'and.^green"of
the Christmas '? decorations combined
with the:Ite'd{: White and Blue ot. the.
,,St^fa2,i^tripes>restedj#ith'<a stf|k.J
ink and atithe^sarneftimc' harpionious
!fie^?eBtra**'occupIed?.an5
and ferns while over head was a large
American flag which later fluttered to
the stand. Carrying out the military
Idea further were the officer's tent
on the ; balcony .- and. the ; "mess"
tents from which the. salad supper was
served/ Skinner's. ? orchestra, rafter?
ed the dance<music.~. ... ? ...
? The^patroriesse8; .of jthe.dance ;balt,
laBt'nlglit'.wer'e"Mesdamea.C. E. Hut
chinsbn;?EdwinRoblnson,J. E, Wat
8on,~?^^^nwnraWsS,iHay
mond- S; SrfCochran; Henry, lively/A.
L. Lehman, W.-S.'-Black, T.rW. Flem
ing, Jamea A. Meredith, R, T. Cun
jiingham,-. M}'^^v*^?icraft (anfeJIp.w
'M[iS7?^ho^Her.^h'e?eieontiTe
committee .and' sub-committees . were
as follows.
Executive committee, Captain Ed
ward B. Carskadon, Lieutenant Alex
ander D. Bell, Captain Claude H. Lay
man, Captain Rollo J. Conley. Captain
John W. Mason Jr., Lieutenant Fran
cis Thralls, Lieutenant Nathan G.
Matthews, Lieutenant C. J. Straight
Invitations and Programmes?Cap
tain Mason, Captain Layman, Lieuten
ant Matthews.
Music?Lieutenant Thralls, Captain
Mason, Lieutenant Bell.
Refreshments ? Captain. Conley,
Lieutenant Straight, Lieutenant Bell.
Decorations?Lieutenant Mattl-ews,
Captain Conley, Lieutenant Straight
ali
IfONDATMORNIi
Unusual Precautions Will
Be Taken Against Spread
of Contagion.
.AJter two weeks of rest and recre
ation the schools of the city will:re
open 'tomorrow and practically an
uninterrupted "session wili.be.held.un-:
til the close of school in.June. All,thei
city schools, including the High School
the ward schools and St. Peters Paro-1
chlal school will reopen on Tuesday*
morning.. The reopening of the Normal;
was postponed until Tuesday in order
that the students might have, the opr
portunity of spending S,unday,at-home.
Superintendent' Otia .G. Wilson who
with his family had spent the holidays
with relatives in Harrisville, has!, re
turned home and" has things'in shape;
for the begining. of, school. Mr.,Wilson!
states" that^unuoiial precautions lyrfllj
.be tak.en'.in'the .city'schools this last
half of the ,year to prevent the spread;
.of contagion Snd everything possible]
will 'be 'done to'keep tho<.children in}
good iealth and',condition.
V V ? ?? ^ y '*'? t
; The r Saturdayrten- ?
ifig-West -?ifgiiiiff S
advertising columlfs;
present the double
advantage of great
. ? -H-ft ?s;W% ?
conspicuousness and,
moderate cost, Add
ed to which is the
further double ad
vantage of compact
X J X- !_ _ ?
wt
