???I 'v v _ . .
I WEATHER. I ?-55- '
! ?^r,?^r.;,r,i,;rs5 f jti/1 - . ^ ^ _ - L T-W /-v CI-from p~? <???..
if ' > r \ SIT f^V ^K| fjff WrtAin Me Hour"
s.zr8y?a^rw?T^?ai?>^1^ m.F v| 11^ Try I I r I I I I I I I I r I I
dyul,T,POrtonp,,8?n. ^6rl |>V / i^AlVl |>il vM 1=======,
? 1 y m I y / I f / Swoni Net Clrralatloa. M?atk of Jane,
CLOSING NEW TORK STOCKS PAGE 14. ^ ^ 1)11,7 Awaga. 79,0??i Safcday, BWC7.
No. 20,382. ' ' WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, JULY 17, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. I * ONE CENT.
? 11 ' 1 I ?
EIGHT PERSONS DIE
IN SOUTHERN FLOW
Damage in North Carolina
Fstimatert at S6.000.000
to $10,000,000.
TWO WOMEN ARE FOUND
' TIED TO TOP OF A TREE
Scores of Industrial Plants in Asheville
Are Idle and Miles of
Railway Torn Up.
ASHEVILLE, N. C, July 17.
?The death list from the flood
that overwhelmed this section of
North Carolinia was increased to
eight today. Reports from Madison
county said two lives were
lost and that fifty-three houses
i were demolished in Marshall.
The water was .receding today
and no more fears are entertained
for the breaking of the dam at
Lake Toxaway.
The body of Miss Charlotte j
Walker, a nurse, was found today
at Biltmore. Miss Mabel Foister,
another nurse, and Miss Louise
u aiKer also lost xneir lives utj
Biltmore. These, with the death
of Lonnie Trexter, a white laborer.
and Luther Frazier, a negro,
bringing the list to eight.
Many "families Homeless.
Seventy-five families, mostly cotton
mill workers, residing in the lower sections
of Asheville, lost their homes and
are being cared for by a citizens' relief
committee.
Attempts to revise estimates of damage
to mills near Asheville today
brought little hope that they have
suffered to an extent less than reported
last night.
The damage estimated for this section
remained at $6,000,000 to $10,000,000.
Asheville still is without gas or
electric power and the price of gasoline
had gone to a dollar a gallon. No
p. trains left today and none arrived.
On the Murphy division of the
Southern railway, however, trains are
running form Waynesville to Murphy.
The main line toward Washington is
open beyond Salisbury.
Estimates o fthe Damage.
The Swannanoa and French Broad
risers that rose out of their banks in
this section yesterday, flooding the village
cf Biltmore and leaving Asheville
without gas or electric light and power,
were falling rapidly today, ^nd it was I
thought that the greatest danger to j
this section had passed. Estimates of|
property damage already have been!
placed at rrom 56,000.000 to $10,000,000, j
while the total loss to crops, lumber;
mills, cotton mills, highway and rail- j
road bridges and miles of railroad ;
track throughout the area that has felt!
the flood was expected to grow as be- ]
lated reports came in.
Miss Xelle Lipe and Mrs. Leo Mul-J
holland. reported drowned yesterday :
when the home of their father. J. C. ?
Lipe. at Biltmore, was washed away, !
were found today tied in the top of a j
tree, according to reports received here.
Wide Area Is Affected.
The area that felt the effects of the
flood extends from eastern Tennessee
through southeastern West Virginia,
southwestern Virginia, across North
Carolina roughly to Wilmington, and
embraces virtually all of South Carolina.
Should the dam at Lake Toxaway !
yield to the flooded waters pressing
against :t. devastation in that section
would be followed by floods down the
Savannah river watershed that would
imperii Augusta. Ga.
The immediate cause of floods around
Asheville Sunday was the bursting of
the dam at Hendersonville. N. C., and
that at Kanuga. Volumes of water
swept down tne Swannanoa ricer, cngulflr.g
portions of the Vanderbilt estate
and the village of Biltmore, laid
out twenty-five years ago by the late j
George W. Vanderbilt. Two nurses '
from the Biltmore Hospital are thought j
to have been drowned. Persons here j
familiar w ith the Biltmore section ex- |
pressed the belief that damage to the j
Vanderbilt estate mi^ht have been i
Heavy ana muugni ine nuunurc nurscr- j
iee probably were flooded. Biltmore is i
cut off frfcm Asheville by a mile of
water.
Down the French Broad valley swept j
another flood from the broken dams j
until lower Asheville was inundated j
and scores of industrial plants were j
damaged. Several hundred mill work- !
ers are being cared for here, their j
homes having been washed away. The i
Southern railway depot here and the ?
Glen Rock Hotel, both a mile and a ;
half from the business section of Ashe- |
ville, were covered with water several !
feet deep. Two laborers were drowned j
trying to carry food to persons !
ir.arooned in upper floors of the hotel, j
Heavy Damage Near Charlotte.
Near Charlotte. N. C., which also reported
heavy damage, eighteen men
working on a railroad bridge were carried
away w hen the bridge went down,
and either were drowned or are
marooned in tree tops.
At Charleston, S. C., approximately
thirty men composing the crews of six
barges a?*e missing. The barges were
torn from tugs during the hurricane.
It was thought today that several
days must pass before railroad service
could be restored to Asheville and
Hendersonviile and it probably will be
a week *?r more before normal schedules
are re-established throughout the
flooded section.
At daylight this morning rescuing
parties sent out by the Southern Railway
Company from Charlotte located Resident
Engineer Joseph Killian and two other
men clinging to a tree top about a mile
below the point where the bridge over the
Catawba river, twelve miles from thit
city, went out with them and eleven other'
?*
fort Is being made to rescue the men.
Reports from the river state that other
men are on an island farther down.
Railway Men Are Rescued.
Engineer Joseph Killiam and three
other men of the Southern railway, who
have been hanging to trees in the Catawba
river a mile below where the
railroad bridge went down with them
and eight others yesterday, were rescued
at 1:30 o'clock today. Searching
parties are scanning the river for the
other men, employes of the Southern,
and .four men employed by the Western
Union Telegraph Company, who went
down.
WINSTON-SALEM, N. C., July 17.?
Meager reports reaching here today told
| of heavy damage yesterday in the Yadkin
riwr ronct nf Viara In TTllcin.
Surry county, the flood waters are reported
to have demolished the Hotel Myrtle,
a two-story brick structure, and to have
i carried away the farmers' warehouse,
[two livery stables, three stores and three
machine shops. Across the river in Yadkin
county residents in the town of Jonesville
were forced to abandon their homes
Saturday night. No casualties had been
reported early today.
The Yadkin river was falling rapidly
and had gone down nearly three feet
below its high level of yesterday.
Wire communication is prostrated
west of here, and all traffic on the
Southern railway to Wilkesboro has
been suspended because of wash-outs.
Conditions Better in West Virginia.
WHEELING, W. Va., July 17.?Flood
conditions throughout West Virginia
were somewhat improved today. Reports
to the United States engineer's
office here showed that the Kanawha
river had risen to only 31.7 at Kanawha
falls, which, it was stated, would
make the crest of the flood 30 feet at
Charleston, where 38 feet was expected
last night. Twenty feet was expected
at Point Pleasant, where the
Kanawha empties into the Ohio.
Breaking of Dam Is Humored.
ATLANTA, Ga., July 17.?It was persistently
rumored today that the Lake
Toxaway dam had given away. Railroad
officials in Asheville said they did
not credit the report. There was no
wire communication with Lake Toxaway.
A Another Tropical Storm.
The tropical disturbance of the past
week passed to the eastward of Turks
Island, but another is central between
Turks Island and Nassau with an apparent
northward movement, the
weather bureau announced today.
Unsettled showery weather will pre
van lonigni ana 1 uesuav in me imuuic
Atlantic states, while there will \ be
thundershowers Tuesday in Alabama,
Georgia and Florida.
presiIntStes
hisacceptance
Busy Preparing Speech for
Notification at Shadow
Lawn in August.
President Wilson has beg-un
work upon his speech of acceptance
of the democratic nomination
for President. He intends to
prepare the speech with consider- j
able care, that it may become the |
real keynote of the presidential
campaign so far as his party is
concerned. The President will
put in odd hours on the speech
until the -day of notification at
Shadow Lawn early in August,
when he will be told officially
that the democrats selected him
as their standard bearer in the
big political fight ahead.
August 5 was tentatively fixed upon as
the date, at conferences today between
the President, Vance McCormick, chairman
of the democratic national committee;
Postmaster General Burleson and
Secretary McAdoo.
Mr. McCormick talked with several
democratic leaders before and after seeing
the President.
Inasmuch as the speech is expected
to be a rather long one, covering the
achievements of the party in the past
four years, and foreshadowing its policies
on important pending questions,
the President will take unusual care in
the preparation. A part of the speech
will not be completed until after the
presidential candidate of the republicans,
Charles E. Hughes, has made his
speech of acceptance, the last day of ]
this month, at Carnegie Hall. President j
? UBVll aim ma k?ivj ?? "w /cv nuuw
the details of the indictment that will
be returned against the democrats by
the republican nominee and this will
come when Mr. Hughes tells the republican
notification committee that he
formally accepts the republican nomination.
Will Answer Hughes Indictment.
With the republican Indictment before
him President Wilson will complete
his speech of acceptance and at
the same time lay before the country
the democratic indictment of the republican
party. The speech, therefore,
will be both an answer to republican
accusations and. In turn, an attack
upon the opposition, at the same time
setting before the country what the
democratic party has done during Its
tenure of office.
The President went out of town F'rlday
night on the naval yacht Mayflower.
mainly for the purpose of hav|
ing an opportunity to work upon the
speech without Interruption. The Mayflower.
with Mrs. Wilson and relatives
of the President and wife aboard,
anchored in Chesapeake bay, below the
mouth of the Potomac river, and remained
there through Saturday and
Sunday, leaving late yesterday afternoon
for the return up the Potomac
river, arriving here early Oils morning.
The President had considerable time
for work upon the speech and made
good progress, u is understood,
ARCHITECT'S OFFICE
ABOLISHED IN BILL
Commissioner of Public Buildings
to Replace Supervisor,
According to Provision.
MEASURE NOW IN HOUSE
CARRIES $35,000,000
Armory to Cost $800,000 and a
$3,000,000 Department of Justice
Building1 Included.
I /
The office of the supervising'
architect of the Treasury is
abolished under the terms of the
S35.000.000 public building bill
reported from the House committee
on public buildings and
grounds today, and authorization
is made for an $800,000 armory
and a $3,000,000 building for the
Department of Justice in the city
of Washington.
The items for the two buildings have
been expected, but the legislative provisions
wiping out the supervising
architect's office came as a surprise.
In place of the office the bill proposes
a separate government bureau known
as the bureau of public buildings,
headed by a commissioner.
The bill also carries $200,000 for new
equipment shops for the Washington
post office.
The report on the bill explains this
proposed abolition of the supervising
architect's office in these words:
"The bill provides for the abolition
of the office of suvervising architect of
the Treasury and creates in lieu thereof
a bureau of public buildings, placing
at the head of such bureau an officer to
be known as the commissioner of public
buildings, who is to be appointed
by the President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, and
who is to hold office fo* a term of four
years. It is further provided that in
the organization of the bureau of public
buildings the officers and employes
now employed in and "connected with
the office of the supervising architect
of the Treasury are to be used, as far
as needed, as a part thereof, the re
sp'ective services to be rendered and
duties to be performed by each to be
prescribed by the commissioner of public
buildings. The bureau of public
buildings is given complete jurisdiction
over and control of the selection
of sites, drafting of plans and specifications,
supervision of construction
and the care and maintenance of all
public buildings."
Designs to Be Standard.
The provision is the outcome of criticism
heard in the committee against
the supervising architect's office on
the ground that plans for buildings
authorized months ago have never
been drawn. Another legislative provision
of interest is designed toward
standardization of the design of public
buildings throughout the United States,
also a board of estimates for public
building work is proposed. The board
is to report the facts in connection
with the necessity for buildings at various
points. The board is to be composed
of the commissioner of public
buildings and two members designated
by the Secretary of the Treasury.
In a statement for The Star, Chairman
<!"lark of the public buildings committee
explained the amounts and the
new legislative provisions. He said:
Explains New Provisions.
"The bill carries a total of approximately
$35,000,000. Three cities of the
United States get $10,000*000 of this
amount, six cities fcet an authorization
of approximately $14,000,000 and twenty-four
of the large cities get approximately
$24,000,000, by which it will be
seen that twenty-four of the large
cities of the United States get twothirds
of the authorizations contained
in the bill.
"The committee has made an honest
effort to comply strictly with the law
as laid down in the act of March 4,
1913, limiting sites to towns where the
postal receipts were $6,000 per annum
or over, and limiting buildings to
towns where the postal receipts
amounted to $10,000 per annum or over.
It must be understood, however, that
in numbers of the small places in the
west and south there are other federal
activities in addition to the post office
to be cared for, such as courts, land
offices, internal revenue service, etc.
The committee has also included in
this bill some general legislative provisions
seeking to remedy the evils
which have heretofore existed in government
public building construction.
"We have provided for the standardization
of buildings in the smaller
cities and towns of the country and
have thrown such restrictions around i
the purchase of sites and the con- j
struction of buildings which we confidently
believe will result in a sav
ing to tne government or irom .'a 10
50 per cent over such authorizations as
have been made in the past. The committee
has held long and patient heari
ings and has thoroughly Investigated !
every item carried in this bill, and is ]
ready and willing to defend it upon J
the floor or any other forum, at any
time, confident that if the executive
officers of the government will carry
out the law, pursuing the policy which
the committee has mapped out, no reasonable,
unprejudiced man will be
found to object.
"We believe that it is just as essential
to provide for the economic, efficient and
expeditious conduct of the public busi-!
; ness as it is to provide the revenues with
which to pay the "actual necessary ex- j
penses of the government. The commit- !
tee has emphatically declared in its report
and in it proposed legislation that j
i we are opposed to the construction of j
monumental palaces in small cities and |
[ towns and have expressed as our idea
that what is needed for the conduct of the
postal business of the country particularly
is a workshop."
JIMINES TO SEE WILSON.
Former President of Santo Domingo
May Protest Elections.
NEW YORK. July 17.?Juan I.
Jlmines., formerly president of Santo
Domingo, was a passenger on board
the steamer Coamo, which arrived today
from San Juan, Porto Rico. Mr. Jlmenes
is on his way to Washington, where he
will see President Wilson.
Although Mr. Jimenes would not discuss
the object of his mission to the
United States. It is understood that he
comes to protest against the outcome
Ql tip SftVi) ttaction* in Santo Dominfo,
i
BULL MOOSE REVOLT
WATCHEDBY G. 0. P.
Republican Leaders Hopeful
That Few Ballots Will Be
Deflected. J
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
NEW YORK. July 17.?While intent
upon keeping a watchful eye upon developments.
especially concerning Parker's
call for a new national bull moose contention
to nominate a presidential ticket,
the republican national leaders profess
at least to have no great fear of a material
revolt of progressive republicans
from the proposed indorsement of the
regular republican ticket.
At the same time they are wary and
will not underestimate the possibilities of
danger in that direction. Much will depend,
it is said, upon the nature of the
response to Col. Parker's appeal. This
will be shown by the size and character
of the attendance upon the proposed convention,
if it ever comes off.
Situation in New Jersey.
Everett Colby of New Jersey, former
progressive icaaer in mai o?.al-o a.?^
now a member of the campaign committee
of the republican party, will be
charged with responsibility for keeping
tab on the straying bull moose
I herd. He takes a hopeful view of
the outlook as a whole, and thinks
that while the progressive insurgents
I will make a notable demonstration, the
disaffection in point of actual ballots
in November will not be material.
I The flareback in New Jersey Saturday
evening, an account of which was
published in Sunday's Star, was
, bothersome enough to cause Candidate
! Hughes to break his rule of abstention
from politics on Sunday and have
a long talk with Mr. Colby. Mr. Colby
! explained to him the sentiments as
|stated.
Mr. Colby estimates broadly at this
| time that the entire bull moose insurgent
body of the nation would not
: exceed 200,000 votes. That is a guess
, right off the reel and would have to be
recast after the bull moose convention.
Mr. Colby points out that wherever
there is a bull moose sore spot it is
lawful in that particular locality, but
| the inflammation is concentrated and rot
general.
Democrats to Prod Moose.
The democratic leaders are pleased
'over the bull moose dissatisfaction, so
openly expressed, and hopeful of a
spread of the irritation. They will
certainly not apply any emolients, but,
wherever possible, will slap on an irritant.
With the abandonment of the lost
cause by George W. Perkins, Col.
Roosevelt and the other big leaders,
the bull* moose find themselves without
visible means of support. They are
now scraping the bottom of the meal
tub. The republicans fear, however,
that the democratic national committee,
which givesvevery evidence of being
in funds and on Easy street, will "slip
something" to bull moose to revive
their organization and keep it in the
field as a menace to the republicans.
On the whole, therefore, while the
republican leaders retire without looking
under the bed, their dreams are
uneasy for the present. They awaken
with that feeling of "something hanging
over them."
Bid Roosevelt Say ItP
There is much amusement among
the democrats over the dispute between
the colonel and State Chairman Hopkins
of the New Jersey progressive
committee. The latter, it will be recalled,
said the colonel told him he
feared Mr. Hughes would turn out to
be a "gold brick." The colonel promptly
denied it, applied the short and ugly
word to Mr. Hopkins, and on the spot
organized a New Jersey Ananias Club
with Mr. Hopkins as chairman of the
house committee.
Mr, Hughes, who has a mom o{
humor, is said to be undismayed by the
colonel's alleged remark, and. In fact,
does not care whether he said it or
not. He has the colonel's letter of Indorsement
in evidence as exhibit A.
To a lawyer it is the only evidence
of record that counts. Conversations
j outside the court are immaterial.
LS*Z 11 i UUI /11IL IiraU'tUrtl ICIS "CI e M.O
busy as the proverbial bee today. All
departments were in full swing, although
the chairman is in Washington.
August 5 Notification Date. |
It is said to be practically decided
that President Wilson is to be notified
August 5, the day upon which Candidate
Hughes, leaves for his western
trip and the meeting time of the proposed
bull moose convention.
It is said unofficially here that Senator
Walsh of Montana is likely to be placed
in charge of democratic national head- 1
(quarters in Chicago, President Wilson
j having high regard for his political skill (
I and judgment.
j Chairman Wilcox was. a busy man at *
! republican headquarters today, holding j
j conferences with republicans of promi- 1
nence, among whom was Gov. Whit- .
| man of this state.
Senatorial Campaign Plane.
1 Next Thursday the republican cami
naim committee will meet, here and i
take up its preliminary work as a i
political war board. The special com- ,
mittee of five senators, appointed by
Senator Gallinger, to co-operate with ,
the national committee in the cam- *
paign for the election of United States
senators will meet with the campaign
committee and discuss the situation in
several states where contests will be 1
made to unseat democrats who now 1
hold seats in the Senate and elect re- 1
publicans.' i
The first fight will be in Maine, where (
two vacancies are to be filled. The ]
special committee will take up the j
Maine campaign first. <
KAISER TO RETIRE GENERALS. i
Announcement Says Five of Them
Are to Be Pensioned. *
ROTTERDAM. July 16. via London, i
July 17.?Emperor William has decided 1
to pension seven, prominent generals {
holding important commands in the <
Prussian army, according to the Berliner
Tageblatt. a copy of which has
been received here. All the generals
have tendered their resignations. Five 1
of them. Gens, von Bredow. von Wiens- 1
stkowski, Glokke, Cram-' - and von 1
Buer. will leave the army while the i
two others. Gens. von Kliest and t
Krahmer, have been given home com- .
mands. 1
The newspaper says no reason for *
the retirement of the officers has been f
assigned. (
n T ( 1
u. ?j. ikituiiuaii. uu uuaixucs xium u.. ^
The nomination of D. J. Kaufman for i
membership on the board of charities 2
was sent to the Senate today by Pres- *
I ident Wilson. c
? ?
DAY IN CONGRESS. !
C
Senates
Met at 10 a.m.
Another effort by Senator Martine
for official intercession to secure
stay of death sentence against
Sir Roger Casement blocked by 2
Senator Stone, chairman of foreign
relations committee.
Adopted resolution requesting t
Secretary of Navy to submit rec- t
ords of recent Atlantic fleet tar- e
get practice. ]
Resumed debate on naval appro- t
priation bill. ]
House i J
Met at noon. t
Considered bills on unanimousconsent
calendar. j
Omnibus public buildings bill, i
approximating $32,000,000 in au- >
thorizations, reported from committee.
c
Conference report on post office t
appropriation bill, settling car- c
space tight, submitted by Repre- c
sentative Moon, Tennessee. j
Adopted resolution of tribute 1
to late Representative Moss, i
West Virginia, and adjourned as t
mark of respect to him, at 18:12 1
p.m., until noon Tuesday. J
!r
ivjjj,
wtAWD" ?"x*
=
PRESIDENT SIGNS :
RURAL CREDITS BILLi
_ (
<
Expresses Faith to Provide '
Financial Equality for
- Farmer. President
Wilson today signed
the rural credits bill passed re- ]
:ently by Congress. A group of
senators, representatives and of- :
ficers of farmers' organizations i
ipplauded warmly as Mr. Wilson !
iffixed his signature.
Just before signing the measure,
which creates a system of twelve land
loan banks under direction of a federal j
board, the President made a short address,
pointing out the benefit he be- *
lieved both farmers and the investing
community would enjoy under Its op- 1
eration. 5
President Expresses Satisfaction. 1
"On occasions of this sort," said the
President, "there are so many things to
say that one would despair of saying
them briefly and adequately, but I can- 1
not go through the simple ceremony of 1
signing this bill without expressing the
reeling that I have in signing it. It is 1
\ feeling of profound satisfaction not t
>nly, but of real gratitude that we have i
completed this piece of legislation,
which I hope will be immensely beneScial
to the farmers of the country.
"The farmers, it seems to me, have
occupied hitherto a singular position of f
iisadvantage. They have not had the .
iame freedom to get credit on their real
estate that others have had who were
in manufacturing and commercial en:erprise8,
and while they have sustained .
nur life, they did not in the same de- J
?ree with some others share in the ben- ?
eflts of that life. s
Financial Equality for Farmer. *
"Therefore, this bill, along with the A
/ery liberal provisions of the federal
eserve act, puts them upon an equality J
vith all others who have genuine assets J
md makes the great credit of the coun- fc
:ry available to them. One cannot but <
'eel that this is delayed justice to them, J
ind cannot but feel that it is a very
?rati*ying thing to play any part In t
loing this act of Justice. J
"I look forward to the benefits of this
>ill not with extravagant expectations, t
jut with confident expectation that it
vill be of very wide-reaching benefits,
md, incidentally, it will be of advanage
to the investing community, lor I
ran imagine no more satisfactory and
jolid investments than this system will ]
ifford those who have money to use.
"I sign the bill, therefore, with real
imotion, and am very glad, indeed, to
>e honored by your presence and sup
- ' w.. fnolinps T hnvA n n Tl
joneu uv juu. ^ ~ ? r
ioubt in what I have said regarding it." t
Signed With Two Pens. a
The President used two pens in slgnng
the bill, and gave one of them to c
Senator Fletcher of Florida, who 1
isked permission to present it to the
Southern- Commercial Congress. I
In addition to a number of members ,J
>f the House and Senate the signing f
vas witnessed by David Dubin. one of 1
he originators of the bill, and repre>entatives
of the National Grange, the
farmers' Educational and Co-operaive
Union, the Farmers' Society of
Squity. the Ancient Order of Gleaners, f
he Farmers* National Congress and 11
he National Council of Farmers' Co>perative
Associations. a
Secretary McAdoo conferred with the 11
'resident later on the selection of mem>ers
of the new farm loan board, who r
vill be appointed in the near future.. 13
Among those understood to be under
jonslderation for membership on the t.
>oard are W. W. Flannagen, secretary
>f the Joint congressional committee a
>n rural credits; Herbert Quick, F. j. 2
i. von Engleken of Florida, C. B. Keg- h
ey of Washington state. B. M. Ralston
md L. B. Clore of Indiana, J. L. Coul- 14
er of West Virginia and H. A. Moeh- n
entah of Wisconsin. Secretary Mc- n
^.doo is an ex-officio member and four n
vill be appointed by the President, L
rEUTONS RETREAT
ACROSSTHE LIPA
Sen. von Linsingen Forced
Back by Russian Drive
Southwest of Lutsk.
ENABLES FORCES OF CZAR
TO GET NEARER LEMBERG
lard Fighting Is Reported in
Galicia and at Other Points on
Eastern Front.
PETROGRAD, July 17, via
London, 4:43 p.m.?The Russians
are continuing their suc:essful
advance in the region of
the lower Lipa, the war office announced
today.
The number of prisoners taken
ay the Russians in Volhynia yesterday
was nearly 13,000.
Russians Take Many Prisoners.
The announcement follows:
"In the region of the lower Lipa our
successful advance continues. The eneny
Is making a stubborn resistance. In
battles in this region we took prisoner
226 officers and 5,872 men. We also capcured
twenty-four guns, of which
twelve were heavy pieces, together with
'ourteen machine guns, a few thousand
rifles and other equipments. We
ilso have captured in this vicinity 51
sflicers and 2,185 men.
"The total number of prisoners taken
July 16 in battles in Volhynia is approximately
314 officers and 12,637 men.
We captured thirty guns, of which seventeen
were heavy pieces, a great number
of machine guns and much other
material."
Berlin Admits Withdrawal.
BERLIN, July 17, via London, 4:16 p.m.
?A witnarawai or uerraan lroups unuu
3en. von Linsingen southwest of Lutsk
to a point behind the River Li pa is offl:ial
announced by the war office today.
Today's statement on operations along
he eastern front says:
"Army group of Field Marshal von
riindenburg: Increased fire west and
?outh of Riga and on the Dvina front
preceded Russian enterprises. Near Katirinehof,
south of Riga, considerable
;nemy forces attacked. Likely fighting
leveloped here.
"Army group of Prince Leopold of Bavaria
: No important events have occurred.
Fall Back Across Lipa.
"Army group of Gen. von Llnsingeci:
Southwest of Lutsk a Russian attack
was arrested by a German counter attack.
Thereupon, in order to strengthen
the defense line, the troops were
withdrawn behind the Lipa without
being molested by the enemy. At other j
places the Russians were completely
repulsed.
"Army group of Gen. Count von
Bothmer: The situation is unchanged."
The retirement across the Lipa admitted
by Berlin enables the Russians
to approach near to Lemberg, the capital
of Galicia, and one of the objectives
of the present campaign.
Reports Enormous Losses.
"According to official ^reports from
Petrograd," says the Overseas News
Agency, "in the period between the
beginning of the Russian offensive and
July 1, the number of those killed
"eached 13,900 oncers and 248,000 men.
Included among the officers were seventeen
generals and twenty-nine regi nental
commanders."
Fighting Southwest of Lutsk.
VIENNA, July 16, via London, July
.1.?The Austro-Hungarian official comnunlcation
issued today says:
"There has been a renewal of the
leavy fighting southwest of Lutsk, in
:he region to the west of Torchin. We
epulsed all Russian attacks."
BRITISH IN RAID ON TURKS.
rraverse Difficult Country on Eastern
Shore of Gulf of Suez.
LONDON, July 17.?Two columns of
British troops operating on the eastern
ihore of the Gulf of Suez have raided
lixty miles of difficult country held by
he Turks, according to an announcenent
by the secretary of the British
var office. Tne statement says:
"The commander-in-chief of the Medterrantan
expeditionary force, telegraphing
Saturday, reports that two
rolumns operating from Tor and Abu
ieeneima, on the Sinai shore of the
iulf of Suez, have returned to their
>ases after successful raids on the en my
posts in the peninsula.
"Sixty miles of difficult country were
raversed, prisoners were taken and
ive stock was secured. Despite oppoiition
and considerable sniping, no
asualties were sustained by either of
he columns." ^
MORE BRITISH SHIPS SUNK.
London Reports Heavy Toll of Shipping
Taken by Submarines.
LONDON, July 17.?At Lloyd's shipling:
agency It is announced today that
he British steamships Mopsa of Goole
nd Alto were sunk yesterday mornng.
The crews were saved.
The British steamers Sylvia and Eclesia
are reported to have been sunk,
'he Ecclesia. the announcement says,
ras unarmed.
The British patrol trawlers Onward,
lull. Era, Aberdeen and Nellie have
een sunk by German submarines, according
to a dispatch from Aberdeen
o the Central News Agency. Eleven
urvivors of the trawlers have been
anded.
The Mopsa was of 885 tons gross,
he was 225 feet long and was built
n 1902.
The Ecclesia was of 3.714 tons gross
nd was 339 feet long. She was built
n 1904 and belonged in Manchester.
ken. Parker Praises Transport Work.
Work being: done by the army Quar?rmaster
Corps in supplying equipment
nd supplies to National Guard organic
at ions stationed along the Mexican
order is described as excellent in a
?tter from Brig. Gen. Parker, com-lander
of the Brownsville district,
lade public today by the War Department.
The general says "wonderful
dings have been accomplished." .
FURTHER ADVANCE
SCORED BY BRITISH
ON SOMME FRONT'
Storm Second Line German
Positions Northwest of
Bazentin-le-Petit Wood.
GROUND ALSO CAPTURED
TO EAST OF LONGUEVAL
Remaining Strongholds Held by
Enemy in Ovillers and La Boitselle
Are "Cleaned Hp."
EFFORTS IN LORRAINE FAIL
Paris Reports Repulse of Two German
Attacks?Berlin Bays
British Guns Are Shelling
Lines Furiously.
LONDON, July 17, 5:25 p.m.?
German second line positions
northwest of Bazentin-le-Petit
wood have been captured by the
British in a storming attack, the
war office announced today. The
positions captured in what the
statement characterizes as a
"further important success" extended
over a front of 1,500
yards.
A strongly held position at
Waterlot farm, east of Longueval,
also was captured by the British,
while the remaining strongholds
of the Germans in Ovillers and
La Boisselle also were taken.
Text of Britiih Beport. ^
The statement says:
"A further important euooees has
been gained by ua Northwest of
Bazentln-le-Petit wood we stormed and
captured German second line positions
on a front of 1,500 yards.
"East of Longueval we widened the
sap in the German second line by capturing
the strongly defended position
on the Waterlot farm.
"On our left flank, in Ovillers and
Xa Boise lie, we captured the remaining
strongholds of the enemy."
Take Trench Near Pozierea.
BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCE, July
17, noon, via London, 4:30 p.m.?The
British today captured a German
trench In the neighborhood of Poaleres. ?"
The capture of the trench strengthens
the new British line in this vicinity.
The British also cleared out nests
of German machine gun operators who
had been holding out in cellars and behind
barricades in the ruins of Ovillers
and La Bolsselle. Otherwise the situation
along the British front is unchanged
at this hour.
Wounded Germans in Cellar.
A total of about 100 officers and
! men surrendered to the British, who
had steadily closed in upon them, using
bombs and trench motors, the Germans
being short of food.
In the enormous cellar at Bezantln-lePetit
the British found several hundred
wounded Germans who had taken refuge
there. It was tragic business for the
British litter bearers bringing them back
through the German shell fire, which waa
meant for the British reserves and gun
positions. There were cases where a litter
bearer was wounded and put on a
stretcher emptied when a wounded German
on it had been killed by the
same shell. The British persisted until
all who had not received a final wound
in transit were safe in the rear.
A captured record of a German battalion
shows that 600 of its number were
killed or wounded by the British shell
fire in the bombardment before the at
tack began.
Germans Attack in Lorraine.
PARIS, July 17, noon.?The Germans
made two attacks in Lorraine last night.
The war office report of today says both
assaults were repulsed.
The attacks in Lorraine were delivered
at a point southeast of No*
menjr. West of Fleury the French
made some progress, taking three machine
guns. A raid on a trench in
Champagne, occupied by Russian
troops, was met successfully by a
counter atack, causing heavy loss to
the Germans.
On the Verdun front the night was
comparatively calm except in the
vicinity of Hill 304, where rifle firing
was brisk.
Official French Report.
The announcement follows:
"Betwen the Oise and the Aisne. before
Moulin-Sous-Toutvent, a strong
reconnoitering party of the enemy was
dispersed by our fire.
"In the Champagne a surprise attack
delivered by the Germans against
a trench in the. sector held by Russian
troops was broken up by a counter
attack which inflicted losses on the
enemy.
?r>? th? Verdun front the night was
relatively calm except near Hill 304,
where there was spirited rifle firing.
West of Fleury detachments of our
troops made some progress and captured
three machine guns.
"After a rather long bombardment
the Germans delivered two attacks
against our positions in the region of
Ham, in Lorraine, southeast of Nomeny.
Both attacks were repulsed and prisoners
remained in our hands.
"There were no important developments
on the remainder of the front."
British Guns Pound Line.
BERLIN, July IT, via London. 4:55
p.m.?An artillery bombardment of In *
- - j; ,V
.
