If
T-.E WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy and cooler to-day, with
showers to-night or to-morrow.
Hiihett temperature yesterday, 765 lowe.t, 6a.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on pane .
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
.VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 321.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JULY 17, 1916. Copyright, 191. by the Sun Printing and Publlthlng Association,
AMP PCMT ' "realee New Vnrk
UINUl LiEjIN 1 Jm rile anil Nettarl
Kl.enhere.
Jersey ritr and Newark. I TWO (T.NT.t.
CONVICTS TURN
ALLIES BATTER
I e
'if
OUT IN ROAD TO
GREET OSBORNE
Unwanted Men Kscort j
Warden Back to Sing
Sinjr Prison.
DOCTOR OF Ht MANITY,
DEGREE THKY CONFER
Forty-one workmen. most of them In
their .thlrtle? hut here nnd there a man ,
a bit gray haired now. who once were
thieve and forger and een gunmen
who had ihot to kill, came shinty or In .
little group into the tJrand Central Sta
tion ahortly after the nnon hour ye.ter-
day and due It in each out of their i
Wtfe for a return ticket to Sine Sinn.
They had (tune to Sing Sing befme,
tUt had not bought their own tickets '
and the ticket were not for a round i
trip. An'd therefore some of them could j
not help smiling a bit whlmslcilly or re-
frtln from tonkins little Jones among
themselte when the ticket tellers naked
In methodic fashion, "One way or re- '
.urn.
.' ,
They were the members of the "out- .
Side branch"' of the Sine Sins prisoner." !
Mutual Welfare League, and most of
uiem nan gone to r.lmtrn when they were
HUM boy because they had b;en caught
..... . .... ..
irivHina rcKi on ine r.asi rone, i ne.t ,
had come from Klmlra only to be ai- '
reited again for more .erlous crimes. '
....i. ... i u-.i i ,i ...
had seried time In
Stata'i prison, had come out and gone ,
oaCK again ror almost any crime one can
think of. I
And All WHh flear Ke.
Testerday th fortv-one. carefullv !
axiantm .n Im eiA-.i i i
"- . -"'comfort of the little victims. There
the concourse, were roIiie back to Sim; I weie dark exeil bibles and blue ejed I
... .1... ....
Sing to take part In the parades and '
peechmaklng which the l.iino com lets
who are still up the r.er had arranged
In calibration of the return to the prison 1
Of Thomas Mott Osborne, alhs Tom '
Brown, as warden. And all were quietly !
druaed In thilr Sunday best, oulte like
any other group of workmen starting out '
SOf.a MCKet on tneir ua ore. with here I
Mi ,11ir a carnation lending n touch of .
MJMty to a coat lapel, and all of them
sill- set up and with clear eves that !
Uated it) Intotvlewer atralght In the .
nWa
The vnuth whom renortrrs who visiter!
ttif Sing n few months ugo knew only
aa Monk Krledman once a p'ekpocket
aad-apotentlnl muiderer. Inasmuch as he
mA I.T.. ..I f.
i and a Ul". '.hrouah i the
(ambler'x ear yesterday c.inir onto the
concourse aH I'hll.p Friedman of the
Fort automobile works. The one tlm-
r 1 1 (illlll II til llie
veterilav had I
the well set iip 1
also steadv. I
f the Fold us- 1
I
notorious Patsy Itags
come none other thnn
young James Mc.Mahoii
Industrious emnlovee of
aembllng plant.
v, . .. -.
raftkt WI.e. .nil Mother. 1
Seated In tile cars, some with their i
wives or sisters or o'd mothers beside ,
them, were Charles Newman, Frank
Rogers, Secretary Klmer Mcpon.ilil of
the "outside bniiK h" of the Mutual Wei-I
far I-eagiie, Churlis Ilubller. Isndore
Bloom. James Kelly. Hairy Wolf. Moe !
Harris, ex-l'ollcemati James Duffv and '
many more all convlcta at one time, but j
every one of them now with good Job.
Twenty-one nf the for.y-one work for I
lr. Ford, and one of them Is rated by
hi foreman a "the belt man we have."
And when they got to Ofslnlng and
hurried over the bill lo the prison n i
roar of welcome came to them from the
prisoners waiting along tlic lo'idslde for ,
the return of Tom Hrown, The prison upon us lo make thein coinr.il mine mm t
hanri was hlnelnir I. ill nl leers nele'llllllliV. Now look lit tills child.
"warming up" beside the road! tings nnd ,
pennants and bunting snapped In the,
river breezes, gteen blllslilen were dottid ,
Ilh th unnim.rv frnLtu ,t trlrlu tlie
lone stretch of 'cement sidewalk ' was !
eh of cement sidewalk was
dth standees waiting for the
parade, and far below In the
ds great banners and the flags
Ion- were naimln above hon
Jammed w
start nf th
prison yards
of the nations were flapping above bun
dred of prlsonrra grouped before the
prison buildings, hanging from windows
or uerehed on the roofs.
The moat striking of first Impressions 1
was, perhaps, the fact that here were
llt.ratlv hn,l,.,l. f i.rl.nn.rs miflllv
rind anil .eemllllrlv us li.'ilme Ilu ...liiinl.
aiiAw x,m (IIUHH a Willi t I I rei I J llusiHH j
blpaU amid lie flutter of tURt ami
stirring hand music with next to no
guard oter them. Some pl.tcn up the
road Principal Keeper Fred Dorner was
Idly chatting with friends and further
along the blue uniforms of two under
keeper might he seen. And as against
these three men there were the hundreds
of prisoners, some of them serving life
sentences' for murder, almost a quarter nf
mile outside the gates, with absolutely
nothing to prevent them from climbing
the' hillside to freedom except their word
to the warden that as members of the
'Mutual Welfare League they would not
try. to escape.
, Arrival of Tom Hro n.'
Thfn along between the Stars and
Stripe that decorated the roadside came
the vindicated warden, Thomas Mott Os
borne, who stepped out of his machine
to look .at the result of his idea."
There wasn't a single cheer. Convict
Tony de Genoa, the swarthy little leader
of. the prison band, motioned his blue
clad bandsmen to silence In the middle
of , a strain. The prison baseball
pitchers stopped "warming up." The ie
caption committee of prisoners who had
been sitting on the grass stood up.
Then one by one they began to move
lowly, In a bashful sort of way, to
Ward Mr. Osborne, who was standing
out In the middle of the road. The fore
most' shook hand with him ; the others
Juit walked close and looked toward him
smilingly, while camera men made lanes
amopg' them for the snapping nf pictures.
( ', George Hawkln. 'prisoner, barked a
Udden, command George Hawkins be
ing a' tall, angular person and therefore
elected to wear an Uncle Sam costume.
The reception committer, the bandsmen.
the convicts dressed In college gowns ,
and wearing white wits, who later were
to confer the degree of "doctor of hu-'
manlty" upon Mr. Osborne and Prof.
Xlrchwey, the. baseball team and all the
Other fell Into line.
J'Forrrrrd mtrrrrch!" yelled Uncle
Bam Hawkins. Band Leader Tony de
Genoa snapped hi baton and down the
h,W toward th prUon gate marched th
panda, the bead of th line being dl
i . i ,. i " i . .
" , enttHt4 M fifth ftga.
BABIES ARE HAPPY
IN GRIP OF SCOURGE
"See-Mo Wljrfflc My Toes,"
Hays Juvenile Chnrllc
Clinplin to Visitor.
11 N I (HIT HOSPITAL SCENE
...
hllljfstnll
Avenue Pavilion.
With !J00 Paralysis Vie
tims. Plat e of Cheer.
T" stranger passing "llently by
""" Infantile pnrnl.tsls wards of the
KltiRjitoii Aenue Hospital In Itrooklyn
" ""'enicd like a part of Maeterllnck'a
""lue Mini." A one. went from ward
w"rd with the rows of tiny cots one
"1W everywhere "Milling eye. rose tinted
hoeks and looks of contentment that
J'" "'"rUlnr In their contrast in what
''.id been expected.
There were babies whoso bodies were
In braces. There were i.ii,i. ...t,,.
'eg were done up In bandages. There I
wire babies with arm. ,n.rnr,.L. I
bound. Others weio nrnm.mi iii. .iii, '
n,,
F.verv one of them with a vert- four !
. i . ."" 1
oAi-eimons seemen to oe happy anil
fomented. Some of them wore gurgling
! '.,,''.h, '.h' fed them.
" ' ""n n'fi.i") mi me
uv ,, ti,tP in..',. ..'
gllng to grt out of their cots and crawl
,rr 'nr "oor.
lien Molhrr ( nmr In Hrd.
The white rolled nurses and the physl-
,'I"M!, 1,1 wM"' n"'1 whltw hoods,
nvrf everywhere busy adding to the
babies. Practically all of them looked i Mexico, bin wlm Is one of the
well nourished; most of them were ,lalf consular ottlcers held here
chubby, adding to the geueial air f'nwnlllng orders fiom Washington, has
tlieerfulneas. I "ff" " the Counsellor of the State
Hut when n woman wearing a gown l"litmnt for decision a problem of
and hood of red with blind sleeves 'tHrg out of .Mexico an American who
looking much like a bin l.lttle Ited lt!U-, i",m"" h' " lf""1 Mur " cltl'
K Hood entered theie Instantly arose I cn. "r "n-v country.
v.n ..r .ii-rni..t t n
tho,,e tubics the woman In red meant
mother wearing the antiseptic gown
i i .... k...i..t
Mnlh.- nn,,.i in r,,i ,h(r;
Mother had bceu gowned In red when
she called to see her"baby.niul the pres
ence of a visitor In that gown made the
baby thlnl: of what he wanted most. The
pliys'clans explained that the presence
of one mother In a ward disturbed the
f the babies from their .pile, con-
tcntmeiit.
This was the nlclure tint greeted the
. . , . . ...i
"porter for tiik t r.v ''". '"'"
pennies! m of Ivpiity Health Commls-
""" J,,lm '- permitted
'" vMt th lllom elllls wards yster-.
,l' This was the picture that greeteu
the reporter after he had be-n vac-
' ' ' " ' , ,, ,,, ,
:iu antiseptic solution and bad donned
.,. stt ,,, M's Sorn Mnhoney.
the sutiervHiiK nurse, had pinned a
vhlte towel mound h!s head, ;rli-il ,
according to the iul of the hospital, ,
the reporter acrompanled lr. Itnyiniind
il, l.auli. aeslst.int lesldml ph slclan. .
through the wanN.
"Isn't It lemirkalile that tle- M; '
should be so contented?" Or. l.auli was
iieked.
"Well,
tve are iiimiii; ri.'i.tmiiR i
"The one 'rik.ng S' IT thaVthe ina- !
J rltv of thf c hlldien whom we get are I
L. .V,,.ii u-eii nourished, chubby, healthy
looking. They eulJ. r severe pain ror a
tew days until the disease has reached
Its climax and after that It devolves
l.ltlle Iptlme In Hrarra.
,- i.,, led the nnv to a small ceil
. ..... ... .' ...III. I.I. I
,wi !"'' .. 1 '",iii ebierfiillv at one
,7, ;r'eV '. n,, , Wd clu'erfullv at .me
'(' "'cooed as th" .l slclan pe ted him. 1
The bnbv l ad a bra ce about his body.
1 M.Vou see bv means of this brace tve
........ XL .ht imve been !
. .1.. .,,.,..s ihi have been
ru. (..... .... . 1
paralyze,, ami . '-"-" . '",' :.,
aoie llioe.-iri", mn- I.",,,,,. ....
comfortable. As the effects of the ills
eMK). vvenr away the child may regain
control of ome of the muscles.'
.. '...!. l,.ne..fll,e fnllr story '
1 a H.l.- In lllfll nt lie I
1 Ifl Tjl I ' f I H ("f", JII1II II Jl VI MR 111 "M f llt.tn
UO bablen uml ihllduM.. nr iwo larne.
alrv, sunlit wards with tweniy-tivo
cribs. There were some cots on which
smooth boards had been hastily fastened
to make them sort of cribs. This was
necessary at a time when new cases wcn
lielng bi'ought In so fast that all the
cribs were exhausted.
Charlie Chaplin Wlnlr Toe.
"What's your name?" asked Dr. I .nub
as he playfully tickled n little fellow tin-dc-r
the ribs. The boy bad suffered a
paralysis of the leg.
"Charley Chaplin, doctor,
the
quits. Hitnnyi. ,.
AH ! ri i j... np me nine
fellow COIIllnUe'l, See me WISRie in..
ILIlov t.Fii.i,.... ..
iocs" Suiting the action to the word
he proved thnt he was getting better.
..'..i.i .nnve i.l. Ie.
Near by was another little fellow of S
whose left arm had been stricken.
"Lei's see you rnlsc your right arm?
said Ihe physician.
Fp went the arm with alertness.
"Itet you can't raise the left." play
fully challenged Dr. Uul). The youngster
strained for a moment, but the left hand
would not move. Then reaching over
with bis right hand he lifted It up and
smiled cheerfully.
In the other ward were Iwo alsleis,
f. and 3, both nf whom had been at
tacked with Infantile paralysis and both
of whom refused to stay In bed the
greater part of the time, They wanted. to
be on Ihe floor wilh teddy bears that
had been sent them by friends. In near
ly every crib were toy animal. Jumping
jacks and other plaything, to which
many of the children were devoting
themselves. In one of the ward was a
phonograph that delighted the bable.
Joys of KeedlMSj Time.
In one ward It was feeding time. The
babies wero getting their afternoon bowl
of bread and milk snd several nurse
were required to fill the little mouth.
One baby had a piece of bread and In
hi eagernes to consume It he had uc
ceedtd In getting a little chunk In one
""It If stimulating to work among
CMrtoM? fourth itv
SCHOOL OF SHARKS
SEEN IN LOWER BAY
Old Time Fishermen Spend
Hours Trying to Cnteh Man
Enters-, lint Fail.
Fishermen returning from the fishing
banks to Staten Island and Handv Hook
pilot, reported seeing a number of
schools of sharks In the lower bay and i
Ambrose Channel yesterday morning anil !
aflernoon.
Old time fishermen on the south shore
of Htaten Island spent hours In motor
botfs trying to rntrh tinrl In the vi
cinity of Htaten Island and Itarlt.m Hay,
but were not succes.ful.
Mote than R.OOd curiosity seekers Irav-
el!4 to I'rlncess Hay to look at the four
foot blue shark captured off the Slaten ( wealthy Wall Street men, under corn
Island shore Saturday afternoon. The , niand of a t'nlted Statei naval expert
shark, which had been kept alle In the
water over night, died eteiday after
noon, Iteports of sharks had little effect on
bathers hI the summer resnr's on Htaten
Island. At Midland Iteacli during the
day there were more than 4,000 In bath
ing, and at South Heach there were at
least ,onn. These two ieorts are only
H "boil distance fiom where the shark
was caught on Saturday.
John OMhcrmau, flailing for Duke
wt, Miree I)th(.r n,en OM ,hf lolU tKhy
al Mal"1 ""' Oanarsle. yesterday pulled
hi. ... ii i i , .. ....... i .
up with an ordinary hook a shall; four
feet two Inches long. The men succeeded
In landing their catch at Itoxbury, Ja
maica May, where It was ripped open
(and taken to the Sea (.Suit Yacht Olut
.
U. S. REBEL SEEKS RETURN.
I nnlile to Leave VI ex lot Hrcaase
He la t"nreeinatrnrteil
San Antonio. Tex.. July IS Consul
"onney, whose post was at San Luis
I.,l.tal ll.vl.n I... I I... la ....a ..e . I. u
Jonn anjinoira is me man. lie is
eara old, almost destitute, and de
scillied as a worthy Individual. He was
ottered enough money by the Consul to
pay his expenses to the border, but he
explahd-to-hltrr ha could not take the
money because he was an "unrecon
stincted lebel."
Itaymonit wiis'a Confederate soldier in
a Hnltlmore artillery leglment At the
conclusion of the war he lefnsed to take
the oath of allegiance to the t'nlted
States and moved to Mexico.
, TTrq viiira AQVPTI
FIVE CEST BUS FARES A5ED.
l.raaur fur .Mnnlrlpal Otrnerahlp
. ,
Appeal, to Service Hoard
In a letter to the Tubllc Service Com-
, , ,esterdny to Oscar S.
Mtiaus. the chairman, the League for
.Municipal Ownership and Operation In
. y. V()rk ,.,V ,rtl,HII,H reduction
f,m m , oent,, for the fares chained
tjlr ytf lh aVrnue buses. Its denmnd
I nupimrtrd with figures complied to
sl.ow the large earnings of the company
- ' .
nnd Us light expenses, and cites In
stances of a reduction In fares In other
...
, The gr.a, bulk of the bus traffic, the
'"''K"o contends comes from relative y
l"'nr Persons, and It says a reduction In
-' "
imi.aee or iraim
substantial,
GOLF CLUB FOR MEN ONLY.
... ... " " , '
i.nirn lla era nt (Ireen.bura, H
surer at the Vrnlnrr.
. i'KKNsatmu. Pa.. July IC.-8te.pa are
iKKKNSBtmu. Pa.. July lC.-Steps are
nti"K taken tow'ard the oiganlzatlou of a
"' Kn;.f olu,1' Oreenshurg. The Green..
'"Uiitry Club has an excellent ,
rour.-e. but many nf tlie men players are
players are
uissatlstleil because so
many women
members have become dototees of the
game
H, .... i . . . ' liillfil Hi fHifiiti nnrtri in rrimir
in pKHiricii n mum tn iWAimII. uml himoiik the lux ests.r wfie! i
club si 1 Icily for men.
ine women iiiik too mtnii," s.ihl one;
ma.e experi, It IS impo-SIOle to mase a I
shot
with all their chatter going
A woman golfing enthusiast, when told
of wlia- was on foot, retorted Indignant-
ly ' "l.tt the old things organize a new
chili If they want to. They are jealous
of some of the scores we have been in, ik
ing, that's the whole trouble."
LOAD OF TREASURE COMING.
Srclnl Train sprrdlnsi lo New York
From Kngjlana.
Poiiti.anp, Me., July 10.- - A special
tialn bearing a shipment .if gold and
securities from Kngland to this country
i n.ir-sr iiiruiiKii til s cny io.ii.iv on ine
.,. , v..,.- Vn.l..
I
n, n ...n.l. . ..t
j The train, made
' carrying the trrn
coaches for several a
n... ..r ..i miee pipri
treasure, together with
armed express mes
sengers, left Halifax Saturday, crossing
the International border early to-day
at Vaneeboro,
Tlie train proceeded over the lloston
and Maine Ilallroad by way of Lowell
nnd Worcester, Mass.
ARMY MAN FOR 8IXTY-NINTH,
Cnpt. F..
II. Ilnskrll Is As. tuned In
Succeed linlr.
Cuit Frnest F H iskell C S A wis
. .:. 1 ...',. ..,'...:
Hlxtv.nln'th Itegl'menl Infantry V G 1 ""ipled fmm the ptohlbltlon, nirat r.L
N ' Y succeedml Cn llouls li Conlet' b" "' l'lnlly restricted
wi? iZ. ,n. Is II'" new d.crre. which Is ,o ,,. Imn.e.
who failed to pass the medical examlmi
tlon and was dropped from the command
by order of Gen. Wood.
The appointment was announced In a
telegram from Col. Edward Olmitead of
M.ijr..--Gen. O'llyan'a taff, stationed at
McAllen, Tex., received last night at
division headquarter of the National
Guard In the Municipal Hulldlng. dipt
Hitsliell will be sworn In tt-ls week. II
has been stationed nt tlie army training
school at Fort Leavenworth.
Tnrk Welcome German lllrlglhle. I
Amitcspam (via London), July It.
A deipatch from Constantinople report
that great enthuilaim w aroused by
the. arrival at th Turkish capital m
trd)rit 0rman dlrlglbl balloon of
th oWutU-Lai type.
TREASURE HUNT AT
SEA BOTTOM BEGINS
Expedition Seeks 81.000,000
Ciirgo in Sunken Hulk of
Wnrd Liner Merida.
HACKED HY WALL ST. MEN'i
I
Efforts May He Made Later to
Salvace Ships Sent Down
hy Submarines.
i
U'asiiiniitov, .tuly 1! A scientific
treasure trove expedition bucked hy
and advised by tlovernment submarine
authorities. Is off the Virginia coast to
night and will leach Its operntlng base
to-morrow morning. The first oblectlvc
point of the expedition Is the fleep sea
grave of th" Ward liner Merida, which
was rammed four vears ago by the
I'nlted Fruit ste.innhlp Admiral Farra
gut and went down flfty-flva miles off
the Cape Charles light, carrying to the
bottom a cargo of silver bars and other
treasure valued at more than ll.nno.oOft.
The exp-dltlnu Includes the steam
ships Tltlana, Fearless and F. H. Heck
wlth. a wrecking esie, a yacht and a
tug. and Js under command of Ueorgr
Ii. Stlllson, for many yenrs In charge of
ilovernnielit diving work and the man
who raised the submarine F-4 In Hono
lulu harbor last year. It was sent out
from New York by the lnterocean Sub
marine Knglrieerltiir Company, a cor
poration with olllces In the Kqillt ilile
Hulhlliig. New York, of which Hear Ad
miral Colby M. Chester. C S. N, retired,
is president.
Financed by Neve Vorkera.
The company was financed by Percy
rockefeller. Charles II Sabln, president
of the (tuaranty Trust Company of New
York, and other banking representatives.
The fleet sailed from New York on Fri
day afternoon and will touch at Norfolk
to-inurrow.
George I), Stlllson. the commander of
the expedition. Is regarded hy Navy De
partment experts here as the greatest
authority on deep sea apparatus In the
United States. He left the flovenunent
service last winter to superintend the
submarine operations nf private fllm
project to photograph under the sea a
p-ndtirtlou of Jules Verne's story
"Twenty Thousand Leagues Coder the
Sea" He has with lilm on the treasure
hunt the tlovernment divers and sub
marine experts who aided him In the
fllm production apd In the raising of the
F-l at Honolulu These illvers are
' ' .nipped with new deep se.i apparatus
mi, ', ,, or alr
1,III,,.tinni,i m wliU-lt makes pus. ;
Un,e lung hours of w.n k at great depths ,
.
IIuIIIod Wort I. aillin.OOO
i. ... ,, ,. ...i,... i
w III be to reenter the silver bullion from i f",r,f-; fairly close to the horder.
the Me, Ida This part of the cargo alone ' '' u withdrawn before the work of
Is said to be tallied at IBiiii.onn Tlie tlie coninilssloners for the 1 nlted States
puisir's safe, containing the money and ' Mexico has progressed very far
valuables entrusted to h:m by the pas.
Kengers. will be hauled to the suifacei "MneUraUtug Comment."
as soon as' piactlcable. "Muckraking press comment." as the
If th s first undertaking ' N carried out w.,p epnr,n,ent characterizes It. ha.
as rapidly and successfully as Its pro-'..,.. ,.,...,, i,i,.r ,.ir.
j looters lieueve possible the tlea-iire I
' Hfekirifxf f xtii'illt nti will turn il- ntti'iitloii f
to other ships wreck. il oil the Atlantic
ore. The serine nf the work will be fx-
tended to tlie salvage of ships sunk by
submarine during the Kiitopenu war
internment experts here estimate that
more than U" per cent of the ship. Mini;
at sea are In water .inn feet or less In
depth Naty Department authorities say
that tlie Stlllson expedition Is eoiiliiped
wttli apparatus that makes salvage at I
3011 fiei entirely possible.
,vlvy ,,.Kefeller tv
prIlII,. nim,.,H , 1K
,.,,,. rrn,e,, ,,y .,
sireet men lo hunt treas
one of the
gaulz.itlon nf the
vronii of V all
sireet men lo hunt treasure In the hulks
1 ,,f .esse's . the bottom of the ocean
The rmnftiiii' u-iik I nnr iinr:i I fit Inn!
George F. Maker. Jr. Albert II. Wiggins'
and G. M
Mundiy.
CAVALRY CAPTAIN ENDS LIFE.
'
,..riil.. iirlim.l ..r mti. u.. ....iliiv to all department lominandeis pi
Shoot Himself In llrinl.
San Antonio, Tex . Julr 1 -('apt.
Christian Hrland of the Twilfth C.iy-
i airy committed suicide to-dnv nt H.i-
clilta, N. M., by shooting himself in the
head.
The report of the Incident to depart
mental headquarters Indicated that the
officer was in- III .ill der.inred.
Wasimniiton, .lull III Tile l.pnM
'on the suicide of C.ipl llilnud iiuiile to
I the War I eo u lin.'iit lo-da.t bv Col
. vt aierinr.ii mini ine on per k ir.r iii.nuf.ir
i .u. i t ...i... .. . ........ ... .. ...
. in ine ui-.oi nun , pel iff plum Ml It II
I ... .... , . .. ,
ni menial oeiiresioii le-uuing rroin pin.
depre.slou icultlnc from pn
tincled Illness. Capt. Ilriand was r3
yeats of age and a native of Denmark
He lose from the ranks after serving In
the Fifth I'nlted States Volunleeis dur
ing the Spanish-American wni
VIENNA REALLY MEATLESS.
rolilhltlnii on t'erlaln Hn. I
tlnde thsoliitf.
Vik.sna (tin lleiiln ami London 1. '
Jul) l.- Meatless days bet . ,i Tier will
I meatless ill reality. Previousl.v. mi i
nccount -f Minus kinds f meat ex-
dlately effectlte, prohibits the sain or
consumption of nil Kinds, of meats, In
cluding tinned or smoked meats, and of
poultry nnd wild game on meatless das.
Kleten Priests Avoid France.
Kiev en jming Ann'i Iran priests who
i arrived yesteiitHy on the Italian liner
the
' tllnseppe Verdi were unali'e in return In
I ''' port with n group nf clerical friends
in roomily iron iin;tic.iux because ire
Fiencii siithorlile. will n"t permit tint.
trals with Germin name to travel
through France, Flte nf the priests who
preferred to take no chances by going
through Prance are the Rets. Julius
Horn, Henry Bcharphoff, Joseph Burger,
William Mackcnhaupt and Joseph
Wtbrl.
U.S. TO BRING BACK
BOYS IN 3 MONTHS
PershinpVs Force to Comei
Out of Mexico In Thirty ,
Days. !
HALT 25,000 01 A RliSM KX
Carranza's Control Now Ade
tUate, Is Washington's
View.
wasihn.ito.v. July in. oniciat re. ;
ports received here Indicate thnt far- ,
ranr-a's control In Mexico is crystallizing ,
o rapidly that Hriir -On. Penshlng's
force will he withdrawn serosa the bor- .
der within a month. It Is now estimated
by army officers that the National (luar.l '
will be relieved nf border duty within
Ihreo months. American nrmy officers
In Mexico report that thu First Chief's
mastery !n northern Mexico Is stronger
than that exercised by any of his prede
cessors since the davs of filar.
The secret of Carrnnxa's growing
power. It is explained, Is tbe fact that
he has successfully opposed the t'nlted
States In Its plan to keep the American
troops In the hearl of Mexican territory.
The American crisis, followed by the
wUbdrawnl of Persblng'a force north
ward, Is halted In Mexico, It Is said, aa
a crowning victory for Mexican national
honor. The fact that Carranta has
maintained his Arm stand without In
volving tbe country In war Is viewed as
such a triumph that sentiment generally,
. . .... .. ' ,"' i
far aa American military authorities
so
are able to Judge, !a now overw hlmlngly
for Cs I tenia
(rmr Man's View.
One ortlcer explained the situation
based on latest news from Mexico as
follows .
"The real feature of the Mexican sit
uation' now Is Die crystallizing nf Car
ranza's power. The Villa bands and other
bandits figure now only In the sense of
marauding dlsturbera who have no real
barking anywhere In Mexico except In a
few of the Junta and among certain In
terested peraons In Kl Haso. The pre
diction at the War Department Is ttiat
these hands soon will be effectively sup
pressed. "The crisis between tbe I'nlted States
and .Mexico lias resulted In tbe unifica
tion of popular opinion throughout Mex
ico In favor of Carrauza Having suc-
cesfully
,.lJove,,-
action.
fnlted !
w, ...
bravrd the t.'nlted State and
the prestige resulting from hl
'arrnuz.i now wants peace. The
States wnnts peace. Therefore
we In the army believe the solution of
tin- ilirficiilty Is at lian.i.
"It Is known now that Gen rershlng'a
.llUry ta,e,netB ,hilt the m,tla was
. . ... - . ... ... .
not being properly fed, that the Govern-
,, ,. . ' 'i,.;i,. .i,ii ,, ,.,
1 order to till up the gaps in Hie National
Guard organizations, Ac,
As a result of newspaper comment
concerning the food being furnished the
militia Mr llaker several days ago asked
all four department commanders for a
report These reports are all In, and
slate that there Is no giound whatever
for insinuations that tbe National Guard
was suffering in this respect. In fact,
tery few isolated cases have been
brought to official notice of department
commanders roucei iilug food which, It is
said, consists of the regulation army
rations.
The purport of these leporls from de.
partment commanders will lie coimnuiil
I ...i i... u i. i. u
Kolltitte, liaseil on protest a from offl-
cers In the FIMl Wisconsin luf.inlrs.
No llrnfl la Intended.
War I iep.ii tment sent onltrs in.
, Th
ueiay ii .inspni ihuoii HJ ine i.inu.-i i
1 ..... ...... i.i,
National (lllaul nigalilzatlniw now mold!
izlnu until they are thoroughly equipped
and orgaiilreil, The effect will be to re
yoke a ruling, Issued when the Mexican
slluatlou was acute. waltinK ceit.iln ic
ciulremeiits The order affects about
I'.'.oiin nun still held In the cairis.
The latest Information of the ie.irl
meut Is that about I On.tiiill National
I iiiai'dsnieii are now at Ihe liorilei Willi
the ."ul.iiliil regiilais (here and .'..mm aildl
tlonnl men cnlleil from the reserved offl
dais estimate that there Is sufficient
force lo cope wilh liny present emergency
In ml tlierefote the lleemltch nf any lll.lie
, : ...
pii'ir. ,nii,ii u imneeenun r lint I time I .
" : : . ; . '
cnmplclely euulppeil and organized
Published reports lhat use of a general
draft was being considered to fill the
National Guard ranks were denied hv
t lie Department to-night. The following
slalenicnt was Issued hy the official pi ess
Iniicnu :
The statement thnt the War Depart-
1 ment l contemplating the draft sts.
teni to tecrnlt the National Guard Is
! nonsense Statements m thai effect
! aie puni speculative and have no
; Irisls In fact
o ('oinplnliila nf I'ooti,
Iteports that National Guard units
me being supplied Kior nnd Insuf
ficient food are not borne out In pie
llmlnaiy telegraphic reports received
fiom all the department cummnuder
to-day, These accounts uniformly de
clared that there Is no food shortage
among tlie guardsmen and that nil
have been supplied normal army ra
tions of good quality. Detailed report
are being forwarded and n formal
statement prob.ibly will be issued later
by the Department.
A message fiom Gen, Funston to
day reported lhat Gen, Ttetlnn had
fent many troop, south wilh the in
tentlon of occupying Ihe Guerrero. San
Horja-Santa Rosalia line against any
possible northward advance of bandits
The despatch added that newspaper
In Chihuahua, were Urging th nee-
ConMNMrfib TAIrd Pag.
i i
Mexico Announces
Crisis Is Over
MKXICO CITY, July 16. It is
announced here officially
that the differences which have
arisen between the United Stntes
and Mexico may be considered as
satisfactorily settled. It is ex
pected that details of the confer
ence between Secretary of State
Lansing nnd Ambassador Arre
tlondo will be (riven out Monday.
'v i
GOVERNMENT SEIZURE
IF TRAINMEN STRIKE
So Predicts J. J. Korean, Tom.
missitiiier of Department
of Labor.
Sr Loris, Mn. July l."The I'nlted
State. (Internment will Immediately
seine and operate every railroad In the
t'nlted State In case the four great
brotherhoods vote on August 1 to strike."
was the prediction made to-nlgW by .1
.1. Keegan, Commissioner of the I'nlted
States Labor Department, now In St.
louls. (i iternment ownership, he added,
would then come ae a certain result.
Keegan would not say that plans had
already been forwarded for such Govern
ment action, but referred elgnlrtcantlv to
the resolution Introduced In Congress
Saturday by Senator Newlanda authoriz
ing the appointment of a commission to
study the general question of Govern
ment ownership and operation of rail
roads Keegan nlso called attention to
the fart that the Interstate Commerce
Commission for the past three yeara lias
been appraising the valuation of the
railroads, nnd said the Federal Govern
ment as a result Is better nrenared than
ever before to assume the responsibility
of Government ownership.
"I am contldent," he aald, "that the
great rank nnd tile of the four brother
hood will vote for a strike. I am led
to believe, from Information at hand,
that more than H9 per cent, of the mem
bership nf the four great organisation
will cast Its ballot for a walkout."
FIRE TRAPS GREEK KINO.
Monarch Falata In smoke of III
araloK Ca.tle.
Arnr.xt. via Paris, July II. -King
Constnntlne had a narrow escape from
death In til tire which destroyed the
rnj-.ii summer resilience nt Tatol last
week. The King was trapped by the
flame, and fainted He was rescued hv
sold'er, and removed from the danger
roue,
ine nre in the forest around the castle
la apparently under control, although it
Is still burning- on the slopes of the
nirnes .Mountains, which are covered
HII OUKS Sim pities, I ""I'". .-..' t unim- 111 ine i ii--utii
Thirty-two per-ons Iot ihelr lives In I Irm'' 'cconllrg to tlie llrrlinrr Taiir
the rlre. Fl.iines surrounded the chateau All the Generals have temlered
of Queen nlga, the King's mother and ,tl,lr resignations Five of them, Gen.
tin- chat
soldiers were tut off. Twenly.elght of !rn""''" and von liner, will leave the
thoe known In be tictlmx of 'the forest I,.rmv while the other two. Gens ton
tlie wero members of the Itoval Guards. 1 K"""' nn,l Krahmer. have been as.
The police are convinced the tire was Mli'ed to home conim.inds The news
started by accident paper says no reason for the retlteoient
. of the ottlcers has been given.
HAS NEW SUBMARINE PLAN. , There I,.. WrTTTTeaHv Inore re.
ceutly lu peace talk In the German pi ess.
sliiinli Lake Hope to Nee Vinerlenn This discussion bas centred nlxiut Dr.
Freight Carrying Boat.. ;;l'ni!imi.Hollwfg. the Imperial
A report was current last night that
Slninn Lake, the submarine builder. Is
tnttrtlr.K raplt.il.otN In n inujpot for (
the construction and operation of Annul-
ran transatlantic submarine. It is said willing toenbr peace negotiations,
Ihat tlie plans call for their operation aa On tills iuei!on the German nation Is
fielghtcaniersdiirliiKandafterthew.il'. div deil Into two camps, one of which,
When asked about the project last h.udtd by the agi.irlnns and the Con
r gilt Mr Lake said , m i ntit es, favors a policy nf annex.illnn
"II hasn't matured .vet There hate.wbrh they urge under the slogans nf
been some negotiations lonkttw toivafl , "n ctlflcatlnn of the astern fioutier" and
that end, but there Is nothing that 1 j "safeguarding the Independence nf Gei
c.in tell you now" inuiny," the fonner hating to do with
.Mr Lake said it would be po..ble to ' Poland and perhaps Courland and the
get siiltlclently large Internal inmhnstlnn j latter with ltelslum ami nnitheiu France
engines for subnierslbb s of r.,nnn gross I and their coal ami Iron lands,
tonnage .
Mr Lake is the Inventor of tlie even The Xrw Frontiers.
keel ijpe of submarine torpedo boats.
Ills Argonaut, built In ls7, wiih the
flist siibinarlne to operate su.-t efnllt In
tlie open eea.
ACID GUARDS U BOAT SECRETS, n
tit .(rrloii. Chemical tlrml) o lie.
triii llrenril. it I'.mn.e.i
ll.tl.TIMOnr;, .filly JH A Ill.Vetei MII1H
. .
nciiiiiKe cnejinea in the pose.ssln,i nf
i , 1 i0l"Ki"t the German mer-
.bant siibiiiarlne Deiitsehhind will be
andled to the ships log, the captain's re.
poits and personal , ary and m the
Ihikh containing coulldentlnl Gennan
n't' .Thi'.. i'T"' i"1 ."r ",n,'m ''"'
I eiiiseiiland I. captured by nil war-j
.... .....
., .. ........ 1. .... i i, p. -.i-,- mrrc
spiiinlent to. night that this sulwtnuce Is
powerful enough to do-Uov these things
lu less than a minute after It l an.
piled.
Tlie log. Hie reports and diary as well
as Ihe einbass) itncume,nt, Capt, Koenlg
guards with his life. He has orders lo
destroy iliem liefoie, In the event of
capt in r, a boarding party steps on the
Deiitsehland. After that "nothing; will
matter much," In the words of the oin
elnl from whom this Information was
obtained.
CALLS WASTE WAR TREASON.
( liiinctllnr VIcKeiiiia I rates iilion
to ll.tr. I ., !.,..
LnsptiN. July Hi, -Tim week begin -
War Savings Week." lu which every
clllen of Die I'nlted Kingdom Is ex
pected to Intesi acconlliiK lo his means
in tlie vnrluus forms provided by thu
Government for financing the ' war.
Chancellor nf the Kxcliequer McKenna,
In a manifesto Issued to-night urging
Hie Importance of the nntlnn's efforts in
tills direction nnd rofeirlng to the pres
ent military nperntlins In France, snys:
"Tills Is no battle of a il'iy nr tito,
lull Hie beginning of iiiloug, patlftlt and
nrduoiin offinslve demanding from our
soldier, heroic exritlms ami unimagin
able saci Iflfec. Are we at home eoiiteut
to he mete spectators of this wondeiful
effort:"
Pointing to the necessity for the same
patient and rigid self-denial on the part
of th community, Mr, McKenna say:
"Extravagance and waste are treason
In war Urn and Indlffarsnc la a crime."
TALK OF TRUCE IS
HEARD IN GERMANY
"Frankfurter ZeitunR" Snys
Soldiers Must Go Home for
Elections.
FIVE GENERALS ARE OUT
Two Others Arc Relieved by
Kaiser of Their War
Commands.
Amstkiiham, (via London), July H.
The Frankfurter Zritung reminds the
German Government that since the pres
ent term of the Itcichstag expires In
January, elections must take place be
fore the final conclusion of peace. In
view of this the newspaper mjggeata
that a truce should be arranged to per
mit half of the German army to re
turn home for the elections In order that
the real feeling of the. nation, under the
changed conditions may be ascertained.
The German National Peace Commit
tee la the subject of a critical article In
the Free Conservative paper the Berliner
S'ructlr Narhrichtcn. whloh regrets that
the committee Includes llerr llallln
amdhg Its members and expresses the
hope that If the projected meetings are
public the Independent Nationals nt least
will make their position clear and defi
nite. The ferlOier TnoeMnff states that at
these meetings fifty of the principal
speakers belonging to various political
parties and scientific business organiza
tions will deliver addresses., one speaker
being allotted to each of the llt'y meet
ings. Pan-German paper regard the na
tional committee aa semi-official and are
furious that apparently the committee I
at liberty to deal with Germany' war
alms.
Willie the Frankfort paper Is talk
Ins of a powlble truce, the ToeHcle
Ituntlschau says the Saxon Manu
facturers Association of Dresden has
adopted resolution to the effect that
owing to changed conditions resulting
from the war a will be necessary to In-1
troduce
a new inaepenueni larill as a.
basis for negotiations with the belllger
ent and neutral countries regarding the
renewal of the commercial treaties
which expire In 1917.
Fears IN'onoinlc Conflict.
The fioclnlHt paper I'onriirrf., oom-j
mentlng on the Saxon mmnf.ictiirers' 1
proposal says -hat such a step would
be certain to provoke an economic
struggle after the war and that n mutual
concession of the must favored nation
. '"" ' ".e ,noi iiuponaui
''"."N"' ' ! !"!"no; "'r'n ,
'"U'eior tlllam ha- decided to pen-
7"" .enerai. nmning
von Iltedow. von Wien'tkowskl. Golkke
Part of the Socialist, ami a section nf
. ....in r ...in mi in-ipiriit-e oil III'
the Liberals that the (ii ci'nmi'nt iiti-
Mince tlit tier
the conditions under which she would be
Dr. Sti'etein.inn, one of tlie leaders of i seems da.ly lo l.e inoie nssurcd Slgnltl
fhe National Liberal pirtv, writing re. , i-anl news has been reoeltetl to the effect
cently In the lllusiiti tr i f(iiiio, s.ild tluit ' that the Pnrtuginc Government has
nrier two jear. of war It was only natu-
'rnl lhat the German people, like other
,j ui,....i.i t,... i ...... .i
illons. should long for peace, and lidded
that Geim.iu.t's military position, with
Marge tracts I,f IMs-Man' terrltnrt. most
. of Helglum and a con.'deralde area of I
Iinillieiii I' I P in ner IiO"Sess till, m il e
I II tmstflbb. tor II..I mine I.. .....L ..r ,
without being suspected of weakness.
Hut It would be childish to suppose. .
says, that Hie present trendies were to
. the new fiontlore. Nor Is this the
,Vsh of the Geim.ni people, who, he eavs.
,,r t s..ss,,l with s.piare kllomeier
mndness" What the German people
want, he snys, la an honoiablt. and last-
I !'".
FEAR U7..S0.V ROLE.
' HitIIh Sufliillut liiiir Hhj IJIm'T-
mU iioirt wmit I'i'iiri'.
Tlir. lUoi'K. via London, .Inlv Dl, -
The Getman Socialist newspaper 1'or.
incrf. reprints an article, recently writ -
ten by Prof. Konp.,1 .Metger nf Herlln. ,,
member of the National Liberal part v.
,i. , n , , ... ,, i..
" ' " p. .'"."i "i .it ...
IMnf Metger asserts that the role nf
peace mediator would only civc In lalse
the personal prest ge of Presldeiu U'll
snn, who, according In the wilier. Is
I anxlou to eniiilaie PieHidont Itoosctelfs
I .T"" V "' "'""",,11'"M,",!"' I" '"'"
negoll.ilhii'H al Poilsinnulll
! "Hut." he adds, "Ihl- .linutd be a
.inpan w lis cnc.ncii or ine rrillls or tic-
'"''"
I nricorrfs cominenls on the nrtlcle
as follows:
"Tlie iintl-Amoiicatilsm of the Nn -
tlnnal Liberals seem, to have risen In
such a pitch of self-deception Hut they
would wish the war to continue Indefl -
nllely so long ns America Is kept f,,,,,,
neing tne ninilulor Ihe Kie.it ma
Jorlty f ilfrnnn people certainly do
tun share this v iew "
Pen n at Itnnln'. Trip II lit !.
Nor.Koi.K, Vn , July l Sailing nf ihe
' siinerdre.idnoiiubt Pennsvltanit for
fouiiiern (inn grnunus to test ner nig
guns was postponed to-day until Thurs
day of next week because of an accident
which put her high powered r4'o outfit
out of commission.
GERMANS' THIRD
LINE ON SOMME
Only n 31 He From Coinbles,
Which Was Teuton
.Headquarters.
FIGHTIXG JN WOODS
AT CLOSE QUARTERS
Russian Troops Fighting
With French in Sector
of Champagne.
PORTUGUESE ARMY
READY IF NEEDED
Germans Capture French
Positions, but Are
Driven Out.
I.oNnos', July 17. The Anglo-Frenoh
advance has brought the allied troop,
where they make a Junction, to a point
about a mile In front nf Comhlea, which
prior to July 1, when the offensive be
gan. was the German headquarters oa
this sector.
Quiet prevailed on the Tirltlih front
Sunday. The detachment which waj
thrust forward to the third German line
of Faureaux Wood ta protect the In
fantry operations has been withdrawn
to the main posltbui.
In breaking through the German sec
ond lino of deffiice the Hrltlsh have
taken all of Delville Wood, which was
rtormed by the South Afrlcnne, and the
High Wood, establishing themselves be
yond Hazentln-le.petlt, and advaoced
parties hate reached the outskirts of
Martlupulch, Pozleies ami fotm other
jiolnte close to the third German line.
vance were more In the'natuie nf open
T! c. ....Am I I....U nil.. . t.Ut A. ri 1 ,lll.
tiBhil.,.. the i:,rm.ui 10.I111- m c unlet.
on favorable ground vthnh weie .ool
machine gun imsliious i. i.i iAv,n"
rally reenforcemen. which airlte and
dig lieu tfeiit hi , vv.llle the lllllll.ll I ,
ill opposite them wilh each slate of t.19
iohniue.
slnnd In the l.n.t.
poren.oii ..f slrti,i-es ..f w..." r
becomes a- unpoi toni n that nf v ,1 ,,se-
-me German d.-fi nders of Tr..ie w,o l
i..t ..i 1 1
,. ,.,, rJ x t, t ,,., .ten . lirv-.l
Tht-Germans me kcplc up 1 he.
tolume of nrtlller. ft . ,n nit-w er -i.
jrt l-t. Inillr.itnig th
arrltnl of fre
aitllleiv llrltili guns wtie ah t "j
leatii the main ro.nl of Mariinpu
vvhleh was crowded with 'p.hi.i
Aviators reported fiiinichM dr 1 1, .:ou
.mil .-.infusion.
Ktery one toru.nc fiom Die front re
inaiks upon the paiuilv of liirmin aero,
planes anil antl-atrt r.ilt untie. l.t,te the
treiifoiTetiicnts in elhtr ims Itiltlfh
anmeii in main rnu )!,... hate de
scended o low n una nr .'." tr t. iltina:
upon lieimau Infinite;, vvi'li Ibeir ma
chine guns and iciclvug the rheers nf
1 1 r It I e-l i Infnntiy Sm Ii ' flights have
lesulled ill roinarkal.lv a. curate scout
ing I Th" Hr.llsli casually Ithls n an-
' n,"m.l ttit.il -J7 ofMr rs ilcrid jiml 4,"7
1. .'.' wounded
The Itritlsli me keenly watching for
the next movti on the Flench front,
while i omp.ir.it. ve uuiet uoty pievalls.
The Germans aie stiorgly placed on'
tlie Somme a hot Peioune under thu
protection of the rltcr uml Its marshy
hanks. Tlie crolng nf (lie rltcr bv the
Ficnch will Involve seiimis tWitlng, with
luobably heavj losses.
I'nrtiiKiiese Arm Heady.
The Itritlsh and French nrmles, how.
ever, are full of confidence in each other,
ami tin- lesuii of ili. mint offoiiRlvn
i euulppeil an aim.v with eterylhlng neces.
nary to enabln II lo light sliln by (.Ida
i ..: ...
vviin ine .xngio.i-1 eiien armies
Among the document., captured t. the
c inplalnt nf a division commander of
the destruction nf a German battalion
l.e flu ...... ..nttpe IIiia nri.niw.p tab..
I I..I....I .1 i. ....I..
Germiiuy who ically had enough to eat
were the llrltleh prisoners, thanks to
parrels sent them from homo and Amer
nan Interest In llielr wclfaie.
Another prisoner complained of the
"poor, undlsr'.plliM d material," In the
drafts sent fnrwaid lo till tnc gaps In
the regiments.
The Kaiser's Wnrnlnu.
A copy of a speeoh which the Kaiser
i made in tlie iliild Guard Infantry Tllvi
son when It was seni to the wesiirn
fintit Is ninoiiK the documents r.iptuie.l
Tbe T-lmneror wains the guard. "Tim
t s-'lt dlffereiillt ovrr Here He Is
'tougher. ni'M-resisting, inoie adio.t.
! n"'"' ,'r'"1ip . .
I 1'requent evp.esslons of bi'terne..
' nr', nii,rtn n,K 't,.""' A""" bins for
. their dife.it In lialbin One nf the , f.
. ,. .
fieri B lu ills dlau nfi'is to i m Ait
tlians as "a s'a.k, ileKeinr.iie cmiw-i '
Two leiteis ment.uii Cio ie. e'ti il'., i
a'l mill nvo. Kit tisnihe. i.fe ri
"The desire f... I" e , .,e . xtic-
,,,, ,., ,, ., i , , , ,w r,0., , i
" ' , .,k ! j' ; ,,, ,,.,. ,.l
Hp,.aU of pe . c be ig i ,. and of ihi
I enciiiv being almost iMokuii. P.ntcn.
,,h Is France rein id lo as Jielng
Im.ir lior last ga.p. i'lie K.i.srt in hu
' speech refcued to 1'i.it.tes u-sittance
i as that of despilr.
-
i liMTIH () ) F A sT
, ' ' l.
He. nil. ttiiiti' tlx p.'t'liitinii.i nya a
MurT iifllcer.
Hunan Ft!" nt iv I'riMp lulj
vt.i I, udoni .lillv 1, i Mnialav I
TtiinuKh a sulttt Sunday the Hrltlsh,
.. ri sr wilhH r.l u 111 e tr....i lllf-ti tt'.l
continued to cninlidatr their new po.
tlnn, while the Germans were equally
busy In digging ln opposite thorn, and
the artillery on both t.ldes was active.
Water, food and ammunition must ba
1C
l"r
6
I)
I
SttiV.'." , .
