7
(flWii tMn.ijj.iuim,,
wr,wriywMff(wwfcj)piw'"i' ti'wMMfcy',-''M,'' w-'ffwrBwffWigfHf!g'
FINANCIAL EDITION
Veiigrr
ii
NIGHT
l-vvl Jbvr
NIGHT
EXTRA
tinman
c-
VOL. II. NO, 202
'piirLApjsLrniA, Monday, j.ux.y it, joig.
Cortiiont, 1019, n tnc Ptiitio Limi Coxramr.
PHIOE ONE CENT
SHARK HUNTING WITH AEROPLANE IS NEWEST SPORT AT SHORE
wmvmm' m j)'iwii.".w
1 TjJU.
RAIDS SHOW LID
WAS OFF HERE,
CRITICS ASSERT'
Vice Rampant in City, Ad
ministration Oppo
nents Say ,
WILSON PLANS CLEAN-UP
w
zTfZm&$mmffl!Mmmtom
X
ITISH TROOPS
WIN 1700 YARDS
ON SOMME LINE
- -
Make Big Gain Northwest'of
Bazeritin-le-Petit
Woods
BERLIN ADMITS LOSS
English Penetrate Ovillers Wood
and Capture Waterlot
LONDON, July 17.
British troops stormed and captured fler
man second-IIno positions on a front oft
1700, yards In.u continuation of thpstcady
drive north of tho Somme, General Hale
reported this nftepioon. Jtoro than 100
prisoners wero taken.
The advance was made northwest of
Brnzentln-le-Petlt woods, which Is now
In the hands of tho British, and pressed
the British line forward to tho very edges
of Mnrtlnpulch village, one of the Herman
strongholds defending Bapaume. Waterlot
was also taken by the British.
The CJerman War OMco admitted tills
afternodn that the British have made
further progress towaid the Important
hlehway town of Pozleres, penetrating
, Ovillers wood, southwest of Pozlercs, whero
heavy fighting continues. The Berlin offl
oial statement reported lively fighting west
of Teionne, tho objective of the French
armies, though the French War Ottlce was
silent on the French operations bouth of
the Somme.
Kaiser Wllhelm was at the Somme front
when his army retreated under battering
British blowH In Saturday night's fighting,
It became known today.
An official statement Issued at Berlin
confirmed previous roports of the Kaiser's
presence on tho front of the great Anglo
1 French offensive, whero he has been visit
ing his troops and Inspiring, them to a more
stubborn defense. Tho ,Berlln Btatement
said that the Kaiser conferred with his
chief of staff and commanding generals,
visiting the hospitals and conferred several
Iron crosses.
Press dispatches from the British' front
today brought new details of the successful
attack on Saturday In which the woods, of
Pelvllle and Bazentln-le-Petlt were cap
tured and the British at one point pene
trated enemy hilrd Una trenches. These
dispatches showed that the British, advance
carried the forward lines to the outskirts
of both the villages of Ppzlferes and Martin
. pulch, two of the most strongly defended
German posts before Bapaume.
The assault was begun just before day
light on a moonlight night. It followed an
artillery attack, which for Intensity, If not
duration, exceeded the boifbardment that
marked the beginning of the Anglo-French
i oftmsjve two weeks before,
Brjtish guns blotted out enemy works,'
leaving only ruined redoubts from, behind
which German machine gunners raked the
attackers until blown to pieces by bombs,
The'nghtlng Jbr Longueval on Friday was
a bitter battle for underground works and
cellars. (
"In some of the cellars the Germans
fought like wolves at bay," wired one
correspondent. "Down In the darkness of
. these places men fought savagely, seeing
only the glint of each other's eyes and feel
ing for each other's throats unless there
were still bombs bandy to make a quicker
. ending. It was primitive "warfare; cave
men fought like that in such darkness,
though not with bombs, which' belong to
our own age."
BRITISH PENETJtATE OVILLEKS,
BEULIN AVAR OFFICE &AYS;
FIGHTING NEAR I'EBONNE
, . ,
s BERLIN-. Jujy 17.
-- British forces have penetrated Ovillers
Wood in the resumption oi the great Allied
offensive, the War Oftke reported1 this
afternoon.
South, of the Somme lively fighting la
goins on between- Ceunan 304 French
troops BQJtl it tut. Mlljgo of liunJies,
a.t f PetoutJ! T,K! War OMUe e
t . Cestiauctl t Tase i'vr. t'olutuii Ivtj'
POWER-DRUNKEN
VILLA ON MARCH
TO CUT OFF FOES
Trevino's Chihuahua City
Force Menaced by Move
Northward
NEW REBELLION P. L O T
,Kli PASO, July IT. "P.inclio" Villa's
new outlaw hordes, Inflamed by their victory
over the Carranzista army and -the prom
ise nf fighting the hated "gringo," arc re
ported marching to Chihuahua City today
to enthrono their renegade leader.
From Chihuahua City, the scene of his
early triumphs when he changed his title
from bandit to patriot. Villa hopes to de
llvcr the llnalcrnahlnir blows that will foice
Don Venustlnno-Carranza out of Mexico.
This accomplished, he planned to begin
tho rule of Mexico with iron laws.
News of Villa's latest triumphs and his
mrfvr toward Chihuahua City wero brought
to the border today by refugees from that
section of the country. They brought with
them pleturer, of dlsoider and ilnting in
Chihuahua City Itself and corroborated re
ports of General Jacinto Trevino's antagon
istic stand toward Carranza and Minister
of Wnr Obrogon.
Trevlno s attitude, now that he has forced
the first chief and his wnr minister to(
back down in their plans to deposo him
as ruler of the forces of the north, Is n
matter of conjecture, but his first victory
over his superiors and the fact that ha
has on army of 30,000 men at his back
cannot but have their effect on his plans.
TUUVINO'S ATTITUDE
Trevlno, It Is known, received Villa's
ultimatum four days ago telling him If
Chihuahua was not surrendered on tho
"tippearance nf Villa forces the town would
be looted and all Carranza officers of any
rank whatsoever would be executed. It has
Conllnurcl on ,1'nse Pour. Column Mi
DAY'S HEAT KILLS ONE;
HUMIDITY WAXES HIGH
Man Collapses and Dies in Hos
pital Mercury Climbs
Beyond 85
Meat today caused the death of Joseph
Potts, S7 years old, of 3257 East Thompson
street. Mr. Potts was stricken at home
and was rushed to the Episcopal Hospital,
where he, died shortly after being admitted.
Yesterday's highest temperature was 85,
but that degree was. reached as early as I
o'clock this afternoon, and there was every
Indication that the mercury would keep' on
climbing for the next, three hours.
The weather was only making good the
forecaster's promise. Mr. Bliss, early this
morning teald the day would be hot and
humid,
A single death was attributed to the
heat yesterday. It was that of Reuben
Fril, of 1002 South th street, who died
In the, Mount Sinai Hospital, alter suffering
from paralysis. The stroke, it was said
by the physicians who treated him, was
brought on by the heat. Frist was 66 years
old.
The Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers were
covered with canoeists and motorboat en
thusiasts yesterday, Falrmount Park and
all open-air pleasure resorts reported record-breaking
attendance. Family picnics
numbered thoosanda and owners of auto
mobiles drove through the country in an
effort la B'11 relief from the oppressive
heat.
t. KILLED DISOBEYING ORDERS
William Moyer, of Allentown, Jjeed
lessly Loses Life in Shoe Factory
AX.LENTQWN, Pa.. July 17 William
Moyer, aged 39, in charge of the trimming
presiea at the Bryden shoe works, .Catasau
qua, was Instantly killed this morning when
caught in a belt, which, contrary to rrderj.
bt. attempted to fix without stopping the
H-OtOJ
At . the tune men were at work ail
uirousb lb plant pukUsg "1 belt gvards at
a, coet of. flU.QOO.
itvwUMiu. iwadrT ruaLrjA t voi.. .i 4?!& TOKi&t-ft' s
Pliotu liv ISiHinnit I.nlmr Stuff Phainsmplier.
Beryl Kcndrick, the Atlantic City aviator, went on u (funning expedition
yesterday m after shark and flying low over tho sea was able to spot
several specimens swimming near the surface. He brought one of his
smaller victims ashore, as shown.
AEROPLANE PATROL
SLAUGHTERS SHARKS
OFF ATLANTIC CITY
Armed Crew of Machine Slays
Monstefs Considerable Dis
tance Out in the
Open Sea
NONE SEEN NEAR SHORE
ATLANTIC CITV, July 17. Batheis at
this shorn result feel easier today about
thn shark situation In general, because nn
effective shark patrol has been dovcloped.
The aviators havo taken a hand and have
proved that tho hydroaeroplane Is a val
uable aid in hunting down the man-eaters.
Beryl Kendrlck, one of tho two aviators
near tho Inlet, who have been carrying
passengers for several s-ensons,' yesterday
took aboard his vessel an armed crew.
They had learned that In Europe the air
ship had been reasonably success In
patrolling against submarines. Kendrjyk
determined to try his luck on sharks. He
wns successful.
Ho managed the machine and put the
work of the actual attack on his helpers.
His "method was to skim tho surface or fly
high enough above it to keep from disturb
ing the water and thus the podsible vlBltlng
humor of tho shark; then when one was
sighted the gun crew got Into action. Sev
eral wero killed.
In all the bhaik scare that has de
veloped ever since young Van Sant was
killed on July 4 there has been no report
of the dread fish around this biggest Bhoro
resort. And lest there be an undue scare
over Hendrlck's exploit, It must bo said
he made his killings yesterday pretty far
from shore. Itwas his judgment that the
crowds at Atlantic City kept the sharks
from coming close to shore.
Mut. he did -find that bharks weie there
Just pa they are along the other , resort
beaches. He Intends to keep up his patrol.
Its advantages over the motorboat are
manifest, he says, for the boat scares the
sharks away from any contest.
GIRL'S PLEA IS DENIED
Employer Was Justified in Discharging
Operator, Judge Rogers Says
Judge Rogers, In Common Pleas Court
Js'o. 2, refused today to take any action
In the complaint of Hose Norton, who
averred that she was discharged because
she wa obliged to attend court as a wit
ness in the recent trial of Ida Riehl. who
was acquitted of murdering her sweet
heart, Edmund Hauptfurhrer. Her em
ployer, Harry Blood, one of the proprietors
of a hosiery mill at 7th and Carobia streets,
was summoned to court, and he explained
that the girl was absent from duty for a
greater time than was necessary,
"Under the circumstances," said the
Judge, ""the court will take no further
action and would not have issued a
bubpoena if It were not for the representa
tion made that this girl was discharged
because of her fprced attendance at court."
P. R. T. Annual Meeting Postponed
The annual meeting of the board of direc
tors of the P- R- T-. scheduled for today,
was postponed, due to the fact that many
of the directors were away on vacations
and a quorum could not be obtained. The
meeting will be held later this week, or
early next week.
"THE MUCKER"
ANEW and gripping serial story
of the "off-color" mrAi is now
running in th EVENING Leuceh.
Today the second instalment of the
tale is printed, together with a clear
jsynopsfs of the opening chapter
Not too late to begin reading it
On page 7 of this issue.
EffiSlSiMslSaMBW
SOARING MILK PRICES
WLL BE INVESTIGATED
BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY
s
Mystery May Be Solved Through
Examination of Interstate Pro
ducers' Association, Says
Prosecutor's Aide
CREAM UP FOUR CENTS
When District Attorney Samuel P. No
lan returns to Philadelphia he will begin
nn Inipilry into the causes of the increased
prlcej of milk and cream. His investiga
tion will have to do wlrh the activities of
the Interstate .Milk Producers' Association,
tin organization Mild to have it membership
of 20UU fnrmer.
Joseph II. Tnulnne, Mr. Hotan's first as
Mstnnt, hald Mil.-, morning that he would
confer with the Dlstilct Attorney on his
:eturn regarding whether oi not action wna
necesary.
"I do not want to commit Mr Botnn,"
hn said, "nor commit myself, but we will
discuss tho matter when he returns and
announce them vhnt i-nurb wo shall take."
The Interstate MI1U Producers' Associa
tion holds meetings every Wednesday In
the Parkway Building. What Is done nt
these meetings no lone but members seems
to know. Why they are regularly held
and why t-ty are called are also questions.
NAMES , NOT KNOWN.
Even the superintendent of tho Parkway
Building, who rents the halls In which the
meetings are held, does not know who calls
the meetings nor the names of any mem
bers. "Jf wo did know we would not tell you,;'
said an assistant in the superintendent's
office this morning. "They would not want
us to tell."
Jleanwhllij, from -some cause, the prices
of milk and cream seem to advance among
all producers simultaneously. Something
appears to movs a majority of the milk pro
ducers to raise the price on the same day
and hour.
Tho price of raw cream has recently ad
vanced 1 cents a quart. The price now is
22 cents a quart, 2 cents above the price
in winter, when It is of necessity scarcer.
'The price ought to be 13 and 18 cents."
said George W. Brldgeman, a milk dealer
at SHI Ridge avenue. "We are having
to pay more than 'usual for It in July. It
was 11 and 20 cents Jast winter. The sum
mer price, you bee, is much higher than
the winter price, when it ought to be much
lower."
AVAR BL.AMEP ONCE MORE.
For this particular Increase in prices "the
war," again. Is to blame. Makers of con
Uensed milk, who are supplying Eprope. It Is
said, are buying up .all the milk they can
get at "almost any price asked " This, it
Is contended cuts' down the supply In Phila
delphia and brlngsthe advance In price.
The packers, also, it is pointed out, are
paying good prices 'for beef tp be shipped
to Europe. With the advance In beef
prices hail come a corresponding increase In
the price of eows.
Good milch cow3 are now selling for f 100
and ft 2 5 each, and in ordinary clrcum
btances they sell for &Q. The' farmers say
that when their cows thus cost more they,
roust get their money iback by increasing
milk and-cream prices.
Philadelphians Wed in Reading
BEADING Pa-. July 17. William P
Baxter and Miss. Estelut A. Keenn. boh
of Philadelphia came to Heading today and
were marritd by the Rev. It W Warm-kwseli
QUICK NEWS
FOREIGN WARSHIPS AGAIN OIF VIRGINIA CAPES
NOKFOLK, Vn July 17. Foreign warships nfjaln appeared off
the Virginia Capes today waiting for the German submarine Detttsch
land to come out into the Atlantic from Baltimore.
ATHLETICS-WHITE SOX GAME IS OFF
The game scheduled for this afternoon between the Athletics and
White Sox has been called off on account of rain and wet grounds.
A double-header will be played tomorrow afternoon. The first con
test will be called at 1 :30 p. m.
. EMPIRE CIT' RACING RESULTS
First lace, 2-year-olds, selling, with $500 added, 0 1-2 furlongs
Geltr.ltle Mirie, 102. Taplln, 11 to 5, even nnd 3 to D, won; Running
Shot, 07, Mink, 7 to 1, 5 to 2 pnd 7 to 3, second; Lantann, 101, Shil
ling, 12 to 1, 0 to 1 and 5 to 2, third. Time, 1.08 1-3?
GERMANS SINK GI ENEMY SHIPS IN JUNE
T3EKL.IN, July 17. During the month of June fil enemy merchantmen, with n
totnl tonnnire of 100,000, wero sunk by AtiRtro-Gertnnn submarines or mines, it was
ofllcltiHy imnnunceil today.
$100,000 MORE FOR DELAWARE COLLEGE EXPANSION
WILMINGTON. Del.. July I".- AnnoiiiK-etiu-iit wiih made today. of n sift of
$100,000 for Delawiiu- College Impuivemeuls, comlnrr from uti unknown donor, which
brliiRH his gift up to about $1,000,000. all within n year. x
CHESTER HARS STEAMBOAT AFTER BRAWL ON HOARD
Tlu .whnif lease of the pm-uihIoii .steamboat President was revoked by the City
Count'!! uf Chester, IM today, linrrlni; the boat fiom landing there. Tho action
wns the result of n drunken light on the boat lust night. Tluee men weie put off
tho steamer nt Chester, wIiimc they attui'lted n policeman. Thoy were m-rested.
They gave tho mimes of Thmmis Smnit, John Gillies nnd Hubert llrogab, and salt!
they weie from Philadelphia.
WILSON TO BE TOLD OF NOMINATION AUGUST 5
WASHINGTON, July 17. President Wilson probably will be formally notified
of his nomination for tho preslduney by the Democratic party on August G nt his
summer residence nt Shadow Lawn, N .1. This date hns been tentatively selected
by Democrntli' leaders, and the President Is expected to oppiove it nt a conference
with Vnnco .McCounicK. chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
BRITISH BORROWING CAPACITY NEARLY EXHAUSTED
LONDON, ,lul.v 17. There has been an enoimous Increase In the war expendi
tures of the llrltish Government and unless immediate notion Is taken by Parlia
ment the borrowing powers of tho Government will have been, exhausted by Thurs
day. Heglunld McKennn, Chancellor 'of the Exchequer, stated in the House of
Commons toda that thV daily expenditures of the Government arc now $30,000,000.
MORNING TEMPERATURE AT EL PASO CO DEGREES
The temperature at Rl Pnso, Tex., where the First Hriunde of tho Pennsylvania
National Uuard is stationed, was Cfi at S o'clock this morning.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP SUNK BY U-BOAT
AI.GIIOHS, July 17. The Urititdi steamship Ecclesla, 3714 tons, has been sunk
In the .Mediterranean by a submarine. A boat containing the captain and 18 men
has reached shoro nnd another boatload' is reported to have been saved.
262,900 SLAVS TAKEN BY GERMANS SINCE JULY 1
IS 1CH LIN, July 17. "AccoidinK to ottlcl.il I'etroKiail reports," snld an item
Issued by the Oveiseas News AKeuey today, "from the beginning of the Russian
offensive until July 1, tho Hussians suffered a loss In killed of H.900 olllcers, among
whom wero 17 generals am! 2!i legimentul commanders and 2 IS, 000 men.''
COMPLAINTS OF GUARDS' TREATMENT FLOOD CONGRESS
WASHINGTON, July 17. A Hood of complaints of the conditions under which
tho guardsmen called out Toe .Mexican service are working has deluged members
of Congress. Tho agitation threatens to precipitate another scandal similar to the
"embalmed beef" scandal of Spanish-American War days.
NEW GERMAN TARIFF CALLED PEACE ISSUE
THK HAGUB, July 17. According to the Taegliche Rundschau the Saxon
.anufactureis' Association of Dresden hart passed a resolution to the effect that,
owing to changed conditions In' consequence of the war, it will be necessary to Intro
duca a new and Independent tariff as u basis for negotiations with the different
belligerent and neutral countries respecting lenewnls of the commercial treaties,
which expire In 1017.
MRS. WILSON TO PRINT WHITE HOUSE MEMOIRS
WASHINGTON, July 17. Mrs. AVoodrow Wilson Is said to be accumulating
data for a book of memoirs of her days In tho White House. Mrs. Taft published
a similar volume, which proved very popular.
RUMANIA'S HOUR HAS STRUCK, SAYS PARTY LEADER
UUCHAKI2ST, July 17. "Victory for the Allies Is now apparent to everybody,"
Is the statement Imputed to Take .lonescu, leader of the Liberal party In Rumania
and former Minister of the Interior. "One can see It here by the deep discourage
ment of tho pro-Germans, I know some important pro-Germans who declare that if
the Russians arrive at l.emberg, Rumania must Immediately enter the war against
the Central Powers. I do not state this as proof of moral perfection, but as evidence
that victory for the Allies is plain for all to see. Men of common sense understand
Rumania's hour has struck, and any further delay will only do us harm."
8000 HOUSING COMPLAINTS IN SIX MONTHS
According to a report Issued to the board of directors of the Philadelphia
Housing Association, more than 800U complaints have been received ami their sources
Inspected, in the last six months. In order to handle these complaints, It was re
ported, a large staff of volunteer Inspectors has been organized, consisting of men
and women from the University of Pennsylvania, Haverford College, Pennsylvania
Training School for Social Service and like Institutions.
AUSTRIAN GOVERNOR OF SERBIA DISMISSED
LONDON, Juy 17- An exchange dispatch fiom Rotterdam says the Austrian
Governor of Serbia has been dismissed owing to his incapacity to settle the occupa
tion problems. The Governor lecently urged Austria to annex Serbia. .This sug
gestion displeased Ua authorltfea at Vienna owing to the unfortunate military
situation. The. new Governor probably will be a German.
NEW YORK TERMINAL ARCHITECTS SUED FOR FRAUD
NEW 1'ORK. July 17. "Whitney Warren, unofficial American adviser to the
French Government, one of the foremost American architects who designed the.
Grand Central Terminal, with his partner, Charles D. Wetroore, is declared by
Justice Delehanty, In a legal opinion, to have been guilty q breach of trust. The
Arm of Warren &. Wetmore Is ordered by the court to account for commissions on,
112 000,000 worth of work. Including the building of the Grand Central Terminal,
done by them for the Kew York Central Railroad.
KAISER REMOVES SEVEN OF HIS GENERALS
ROTTERDAM, July l7.-Emperor "William has decided to pension seven prom
inent generals holding important commands in the Prussian army, according to the
Berliner1 Tageblatt All the general? have tendered their resignations. Five of them.
Generals von Bredow, von Wlenstkjowskl. Glokke, framer and von Buer will leav
the army, while the other two, Gerjerals
iojA ceeama r.oaj
von Kuest and ivrahmer, h&ve been given
Sixty Men Arrested rin Second
Police "Drive" Last .
Night
Law and Order Resources
Contrasted With the City's I
LAW AND ORDER EMPLOYS:
One permanent detective.
Two permanent detective deputies.
Temporary detectives, maximum
number, 13.
BUREAU OF POLICE EMPLOYS:
Twenty-nine hundred permanent
policemen.
Two hundred andfifty temporary
policemen.
Twenty-nine detectives.
Thirteen clerks nnd stenographers.
Cost of conducting Law nnd Order
Socipty $15,000 a year.
Cost of conducting Bureau of Po
lice $4,G52,202 n year.
Severo criticism of the Department of
Public Safety wns heard In many quarters,
today ns a result of the spectacular' raid
In the Tenderloin late Saturday night, when
more than 500 persons were arrested. Th
lesults of the raid, It was declared, gave
the direct lie to frequent assertions of
Mayor Smith and Director of Public Safety
Wilson that a strict quarantine had been
established In all questionable sections, and,
that the administration had clamped the
"lid" on the Tenderloin. ,
The very fact that more than 500 mei)
and women and boys nnd girls could be
tnl(er) In one single sweep of the police drag
net, the critics of the Police Department de
clare. Is positive proofifcthat the much
boasted quarantine nnd v clean-up talked
of by Mayor Smith nno,TD!rector Wilson
have been nothing more than mere names.
In spite of the declaration of the admin
istration leaders that the "lid" was tight on
tho Tenderloin occasional rumors had filter
ed out that conditions were worse than sup
posed. But there was little Idcn, It wai
said today, that vice had been allowed to
flourish on such a wholesale qcale as the
big raid revealed. .
A total of 522 victims were arraigned
yesterday In the 11th and Winter streets
and the 10th and Buttonwood streets ,pollc
stations. Never In the history of tho local
police court wero there such' scenes as at
tended the hearing-! when the long line oi
victims were brought before Magistrates
Pennock amj Imber.
The majority were the type of regular
TendSrloln habitues. But many others were
girls, young and pretty, well dressed and
obviously not of the character of those
against whom the raid was directed. Thes
had been arrested In rooming houses, where
they had gone with youths of their ac
quaintance. A total of 13 warrants had
been sworn out by the Law and Order So
ciety under the Direction of D. Clarence .
Continued on I'une Two, Column Thrw
THE WEATHER
There Is an object lesson In the sharks
we hear about, If wo do not wade In too
deep we can keep away from them. "Whin
they get us In deep water. It's an easy
matter for these creatures to get he best
of us.
Hut this demon of the deep does not
differ in the slightest degree from the
shark on land, Often we are very happy
when we're Just comfortable, but the other
shark beckons with fancy get-rlch-qulclc
games. We leave our solid footing and go
the unknown depths, 'thinking we may float
pleasantly on waes of prosperity. Iti
then that we often get bitten by the shark
on terra fir ma and learn too late that even
the original land on which we stood hai
been swept away in the tidal wave.
Fortunately this is a bad time of year
for the land shark. But wtch him oa
your vacation and don't Jump In tilt, you
know how the tide runs. It Is well also
to find out what kind of weather is sup
plied on the ground in question.
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Uasetl on a new discovery in talar phyiiot
11
WILLIS b.XOOHE AND W.F. CliOTHEHS
Sunday, July ZS, anti Monday, July ti
the week will open fair and moderately
cool, with temperature rial"?.
Tuesday, July 8J. Shoieere Tuetday will
precede and introduce cool movement.
Wednesday, July ts, and Thursday. July
tt This wilt clear the teeather Wednesday
and bring 10 degrees cooler temperatures.
Friday, July IS, cfud Saturday, July Si
lt will be growing warmer again as ths
week closes and tecoiin cloudy at the end.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
settled this afttrnoon and tonight, with
probably aam light rain; Tuesday
partly cloudy; moderate temperature,
bvt high humidity; gentle winds, mostly
northeast.
I.IiNCTU Or MAY.
fun rlw-j IS am- I Mm rle. . axtX p jn.
an (.. .. 7i!"ii-m I Ucxiu soutfcj. ;.oja.
DKUAWAKB XIVKK TIDE CIIANOjat.
CJIESTIT STREET
Htsb wtr. 2.5? (k-W- 1 jiljfti wWr . I 21
;'.
Uvf wir uai .ufc i mw f 1UJI p.m,
v Tli3U,VtVBB AT jSACH HOL'g.
ST'ST tot uT wltj3 31 41 3
Ptal fioi sal l;5l wrssrT!
-i "'JjJtf ' ' . . .. ... ,., i,
lOST? AtfPTOPKP
BBOWH BOSTON TERBIKB taS. Fri4 atoiaT
wbU B". beWMO, lab, 654 sod CEwtutt
tVrnjtfto 5101 Cttaut it
ft)UrD-Aa W " J? Ptoa wbJb3, Ma
cum . copjr of te ftt-ag Utmosm im
Cl it 1 Vt4tar t astral or tfaa Mais Ota, a
M
5fas
