THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, JULY 17, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. GO
AT LEAST FIVE MADM -THREE FLOW SWEPT STATE
0
British Advance Along The Somme And French At Verdun
HEAVY FlbHTING GDIHG ON
FOR DAYS IN SIHG1
i NOVilDWINDLING PERCEPTIBLY
DRAWS LESSON FROM JUTLAND BATTLE
DEUTSCHLAND RELOADING
HALTED FOR SUNDAY
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The heavv fiqhtinq that his been going on for cJaya in the region of
the Somme has dwindled perceptibly in intensity, Sunday witnessing merely
heavy bombardments on the British front and comparative calm on the line
held by the French. In the region of Verdun the French to the northwest
of the fortress have captured German positions, and southwest of Thiau
mont, on the east bank of the Meuse, have penetrated German first line
trenches.
In the eastern theater, in the region of Lutsk, heavy fighting has com
menced again, with the Russians on the aggressive. According to Vienna,
all attacks have beer repulsed here. Neither the Vienna nor Petrograrf
official communication touches cn the operations in the Carpathian re
gion, but Pet'ograd reports the eaot ure from the Turks by the Russians
of the important town of Laiburg,, in Turkish Armenia, sixty miles south
of the Blaik seaport of Trebiiond.
The Italians are still making headway against the Austrian, accord
ing to Rome, especially on the Posina line, and have repulsed violent
counter attacks with heavy losses to the Austrian!.
To the south of Somme the Germans Saturday night, in strong at
tacks launched under the cover of fog, captured La Maisonnette and the
village of Lynches, while further south they penetrated first lines of the
enemy's trenches. From all these places they were driven out later by the
French in heavy counter attacks. In the Champagne region there is again
great activity by the French troops, who are being aided in their maneu
vers by the Russians who recently came to France.
Berlin tells of the repulse of four Brit;sh attacks on Saturday
forenoon in the region of Ovillera and Bazcntin le Petit, while the London
war office admits the withdrawal to the British main line of a force that
had been thrown forward to the Fou reaux wood and was engaged in im
proving the new British positions.
Five British patrol trawelers and five British steamers are reported to
have been sunk by German submarines.
Quiet Prevails
On British Front
During Sunday
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON", July 16. With the excep
tioh of heavy bombardments there
were no events of im-ortance on the
Somme battle front since the last re- '
port, says the British official state- '
ment this afternoon. Several heavy
howitzers and seventy-five millimeter
guns were captured by tlie British yes
terday. A British detachment which
was strengthening the new positions
in Fouereux wood was withdrawn this
morning to the main line, the state
ment adds, without molestation from
the German.
The Anglo-French advance has
brought the allied troops where they
make a junction, to a point about a
mile in front of Combles, which, prior
to July 1 when the offensive began,
was the German headquarters on this
sector.
Quiet prevailed on trie British front
Sunday. The detachment, which had
been thrust forward to the third Ger
man line of Foil reaii x wood to protect
the Infantry operations, now has been
withdrawn to the main positions.
The casualty lists as announced to
tal Til officers dead and 457 wounded
or missing; 597 men dead and 1,832
wounded.
The liritish are keenly watching for
British Still
Close To Third
Line Of Defense
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BRITISH FRONT IN UtA.VCE,
July 15 (Via London, July 16). Con
tinuing their offensive the British
who yesterday broke through the
Ociman second line of defense now
heve taken all of Delville wood, which
was stprmed by the South African
infantry and the High wood, estab
lishing themselves beyond Bazentine.
Lepetic, advanced parties having been
to the outskirts of the Martin-puich
and l'ozieres and some other points
close to the third German line of de
fence. The weather remains dry and
warm.
The operations after yesterday's ad
vance were more in the nature of
oiion fighting, the Germans using
strong points on favorable ground
which were good machine positions to
gain time in rallying reinforcements
which arrived and dig new tranches
while the British dig in apposite them
with, each stage of the advance. Fre
quently they are so near each other
that neither side dare use its guns.
Possession of stretches of woodland
positions are as important as the
BALTIMORE, Md., July 16.
There was no loading of the sub-
murine merchantman Deutschland
! today, but a for-e of men was
I put to work paiting htr hull, from
I the wateiline to ihe deck, a dark
j jrroy color. Religious services
j were conducted this morning on j
the interned North German liner
NeiKar by Rev. Otto Apitz for the I
j crews of the Deutschland and !
Neckar. The clergyman zifter- 1
j ward said the services were in ;
the natme of "a God speed" for
I the submarine crew. United
! Slates Senators William Alden
j Smith of Michigan, William B.
j Thompson of Kansas and Claude j
A. Swanson of Virginia insisted j
the Deuti hiatal today. 1
n D
BOTHIES PUT
I HI I II OU
! REMAINS GOOD
FIGHTING SHIP
OSBORNE WELCOMED
BACK TO SING SING
IN DAT DIGGING
THEMSELVES IN
Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCE, Ju
ly 1G. (Via London, July 17 ) Through
a sultry Sunday the British, after
withdrawing from High wood, contin
ued to consolidate their new positions
while the Germans were equally busy
in digging-in operations and the ar
tillery on both sides was active.
Water, food and ammunition must be
carrted forward over the shell-pitted
area of the ground recently gained.
Soldiers who have this task in band are
seen in the rear with the supplies and
then, by some magic, disappear into
the-earth or under cover and rc-appear
where machine gun rattles against ma
chine gun and perspiring soldiers, their!
throats parched with dust, are digging
and fighting.
Still another task, grizzly and ar
duous, falls to the visitors; it is bury
ing the dead. Officers estimate that
there ar two thousand dead in the
small Trones wood alone while they
' are thick in the line of trenches taken
ion Friday and the Delville wood and
fields beyond, up to the new liritish
I line. A staff officer speaking of the
: results of the entente allied offensive so
far said:
"While in the German offensive at
i Verdun the waves of attack always re
I ceded, leaving a large part of the posi
! lions gained in the hands of the French
1 when they did not altogether rail, we
j have been able in both our main at
i tacks to hold practically nearly every
trench taken. This requires very
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 16 In response
to a request by Secretary Daniels for
an opinion of what lessons might be
drawn for the naval expansion pro
gram from the Jutland battle between
the British and German fleets. Rear
Admiral Knight of the naval war col
lege has replied that, far from discred
iting the battle cruiser, although ves
sels of that type bore the brunt of the
losses in the engagement, the fight
added a new era to the field of use
fulness of the fast fighters.
The battle has not clianged the ad
miral's opinion that dreadnoughts are,
and will continue to be, the backbone
of any fighting fleet, but it has caused
him to recommend that if congress de
cides to add only four capital ships
to the first line, all should be battle
cruisers.
"In my opinion." wrote the admiral
to the secretary ."neither Admiral Jel-
licoe's report nor any other source of
information at present available affords
a basis for definite jurdgment as to
the actual results of the battle. The
most significant fact thus far available
is that three British battle cruisers
were sunk. It is not clear by what
ships of the enemy fleet they were
sunk, nor to how heavy a fire they
were subjected; nor is It known wheth
er they were destroyed by gun fire
alone, or by the explosion of their
magazines.
"But this one fact is clear, and in it
lies the whole explanation of the Inci
dent the battle cruisers were doing the
work of battleships for which they
were not designed and they paid a pen
ally which was more or less Inevitable.
They were not only engaging battle-
snips, nut they were engaging them at
short range. It is claimed that they
were doing this for a purpose which
made it worth while to sacrifice them
selves; that they were seeking to hold'
the enemy fleet until Admiral Jellicoe
could come up; and that they accom
plished this. Admiral Jellicoe claims
that, as a direct result of Admiral Beat
ty's action, the British grand fleet was
enabled to engage the enemy fleet and
would have destroyed it, but for the
fact that thick weather set in and
made it impossible to maintain contact.
"Hail the success which Admiral Jel
licoe claims to have had almost within
his grasp been actually attained, it
would have been entirely due to the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SING SING. N. Y., July 16. Thomas
Mott Osborne was welcomed by the
convicts here today, upon his return to
the prison as warden. Mr. Osborne,
who resigned six months ago as war
den when he was indicated on charges
growing out of his methods of conduct
ing affairs at Sing Sing made a brief
address to the men who cheered him
several minutes. He spoke of the men
who had "made good" since leaving
the prison saying that out of 25 only
two had failed to keep the promises
made to him.
The prison buildings had been dec
orated with American flags and bunt
ings. Many persons from the village of
Ossining and the surrounding country
joined with the convicts in welcoming
Mr. Osborne back following his vlndi
cation by the courts.
Among the most enthusiastic guests
at the reception to Warden Osborne
were forty-one former crooks who are
now earning an honest living.
BANDITS AR INCREASING
IN NORTHERN 1EU REPORT
TO
GENERAL FUNSTON CLAIM
S
CAROEINASAND
VIRGINIA UNDER
RUSHING FLOOD
-
I MEXICO CITY, July 16. It is
announced here officially that the
differences which have arisen be- j
j Uveen the United States and Mex- j
I ico may be considered as satis-
fartorily settled. It is expected
' that details of the conference be-
I tween Secretary of State 1-ansing
1 and Ambassador Arredondo will
be given out Monday.
! f
D
X II luges.
It Is, amazing that in the thick of careful organization and the placing of
the struggle at all points stretcher I strict limits on the objective of the
bearers, are aide to bring out the ' eager troops when the attack is against
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
SAN ANTONIO, July 16. Accounts
of Increased numbers of bandits In
northern Mexico, south of the Big
Iiend district and renetitions of re
ports of Villa's growing strength,
were the outstanding features of of
ficial and unofficial information
that reached General Funston today.
Under his direction the strength
ening of the border patrol, especially
in the Rig Bend country, was con
tinued. Pennsylvania troops today
had taken stations along the Rio
Grande south of Marathon and a
squadron of Texas cavalry reached
Marfa, from when? it will be sent to
the border lino.
Robert Bacon, former ambassador
to France, who returned today from
Brownsville, where he has been in
vestigating conditions under which
cide of Captain Briand was reported
to the war department today by Co
lonel Waterman, commanding at Ha-
chita, N. M., who said an army in
vestigating board found that the of
ficer shot himself in the head with a
service pistol In a fit of mental de
pression resulting from protracted ill
ness. Captain Briand was 53 years
of age and a native of Denmark. He
rose from the ranks arfter serving in
the Fifth United States volunteers
during the Spanish-American war.
He entered the army tn 1884 and had
been with the Twelfth cavalry for
several years.
Arizona on the Job
NACO, Ariz., July 36. The first
battalion. First Arizona infantry, ar
rived here todav fronu Douglas and
went into camp preparatory to doing
border patrol duty.
Evidenoes that conditions in So-
nora are rapidly becoming normal
were contained in the departure to
night of a trainioad of Mexican
troops from Naco, Sonera, bound os
tensibly for Hormosillo, and in the
shipment of supplies from here, pre
paratory, it wits announced, to the
resumption of operations at the Ca
nanca Consolidated CVPer company.
national guardsmen are living, left
battel cruisers, and the loss of three of ' tonight for KI Paso, General Tasker
L. Bliss, assistant chief of staff, ex-
wounded
Every one coming from the front
(Continued on Page Three)
RUSSIAN TROOPS TAKE 11 OF
811TIN TURKISH ARMENIA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PETROGRAD, July 18. (Via Lon
don) Russian troops have captured
the town of Baihurt In Turkish Ar
menia by assault. This information
was given in an official statement
issued by the Russian war depart
ment today. Baihurt is 05 miles
northwest of Krzerum and about 60
miles south of the Black seaport of
Tiebizond.
The text of the Russian official
statement said:
"On the right wing of our Riga po
sitions, supported by artillery on land
and sea, we made some progress In
the region west of Kenimern. On the
remainder of the front there were
local 1 engagements which did not
modify the general situation.
"Black sea: During the last cruise
one of our torpedo boats sank 26
sailing boats.
'ICaucasus: On the night of the fif
teenth our Caucasian army carried by
assault Baihurt which Is an Important
stintegetlc point on convergence. In
many sectors the Turks fell back In
haste, destroying their depottc. In
this region and in the basin it the
upper Tchoruk we made a further
considerable advance and consolidated
the Turkish positions which we had
raptured.
. "Thus, during recent days, our val
ient army with its usual pluck and
courage gained a series of battles In
the regions of Baihurt, Mamakahn-
tun and Mush."
In Volhyniix the Russians In the
region of Ostroff and Goubine have
put down heavy Teutonic attacks
launched In mass formation and
forced the Teutons to retreat to avoid
being outflanked, according to the
Russian communications this evening.
Lp ward of 3,000 men were charged
In the fighting.
strongly fortified frontal positions and
the enemy falls back on prepared
trenches and strong points and waiting
material, while you must prepare new
positions and bring forward your ma
terial. "Our casualties in the operations
thus far ha; been less than we antic
ipated and the results beyond our ex
pectations. The new army has had Its
final and supreme lesson in training
that of battle. Not one in ten officers
or one in twenty of the men had had
any military experience before the war.
Of their courage we had no doubt. Now
we are assured of their efficiency and
we look to the future of these oper
ations with utmost confidence."
o
ADMIRAL ELDRIDGE DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NORFOLK, Va., July 16. Lea;
Admiral Charles Henry Eldrldge, U.
S. N., retired, died here today, aged 75
y ars.
Nine British Steamers
Are Sunk By Germans
hese would have been a small price to
pay for such a result. In other words,
the battle off Jutland, so far from dis
crediting the battle cruiser, haa added ,
a new era to its possible field of use
fulness and we can now say of it that
in addition to use for scouting and
screening and for operating as a fast
wing against the flanks of an enemy's
fleet, it may be used for "holding' an
enemy fleet until our own main fleet
can come up. That it may be subject
to heavy losses in accomplishing this
task does not make the task less useful
or less brilliant.
"My reply is, then, that my view of
the value of the battle cruiser has been
somewhat enhanced by the results of
the battle off Jutland, so far as these
results are known."
At this point the admiral referred to
his testimony before the house naval
committee In which he declared it his
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
LONDON, July 1G. At Lloyd's shipping office it
was announced today that the British steamships Moosa
of Gooleyand Alto were sunk this morning. The crews
were saved.
The British steamers Silvio and Ecclesia are re
ported to have been sunk. The Ecclesia, the announce
ment says, was unarmed.
(Continued on Page Three)
o
King Constantine
Trapped By Fire
In Royal Home
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATHENS, (Via Paris), July 16.
King Constantine had a narrow es
cape from death in the fire which
destroyed the royal summer residence
at Tatoi last week. The king was
trapped by the flames and fainted,
but he was rescued by the soldiers
and removed' from the danger zone.
The fire in the forest around the
chateau apparently is under control,
although it is still burning on the
slopes of the Parnes mountains, which
are covered with oaks and pines.
pected to leave here for Brownsville
tomorrow.
Captain Christian Briand of the
Twelfth cavalry committed suicide
today at Hachita, N. M., shooting
himself in the head. The report of
the incident to department headquar
ters intimate that the officer was
mentally deranged.
Mentally Depressed
WASHINGTON. July 16. The sui
To Police Frontier
COLUArt'US. N. M., Julv 16. Or
ders for the regiment of New Mexico
infantry stationed here to report to
Colonel II. C. Siekel, commanding the
New Mexico border patrol, w'-ee re
ceived late today from General Fun
ston. It is believed they are to be
detailed to police the Arizona-New
Mexico frontier
For some time rumors have been
current that certain points on the
border in this vicinity are in danger
of raids. Five hundred recruits from
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTA, Ga., July 16. Serious
floods in North Carolina, South Caro
lina and Virginia today caused five
known deaths, rendered hundreds
homeless, damaged property and crops
to the extent of $10,000,000, according
to first estimates, and demoralized
railway, telegraph and telephone com
munication. Following the hurricane
that struck the South Atlantic coast
Thursday, unprecedented rains hava
fallen, driving rivers and smaller
streams from their banks and im
perilling many lives.
The French Broad river has broken
from its course near Asheville, flood
ing factories and homes in the lower
part of the city. At Biltmore, three
persons, named Captain G. C. Lipe,
Mies Nellie Lipe and Mrs, Leo Mul
holland, were drowned when the Lips
house was flcoded. The Vanderbilt
estate at Biltmore was not damaged.
Two persons were drowned at Ashe
ville while trying to get food to flood
refugees in the second story of the
Gleen Rock hotel. Many are ma
rooned in their residences along the
river, and rescue parties for hours
have fought their way against the
rushing current, in an effort to reach
them.
Swift streams are flowing down
some of the streets of lower Ashe
ville. The Southern railway station
is flooded to a depth of six feet as a
result of the flood. The city proper
is without lights tonight, but other
wise is not affected.
Throughout western North Caro
lina the situation is reported serious.
Two dam at Hendereonville col
lapsed, releasing hundreds of tons of
water, and fears are felt for the big
dam at Lake Toxaway.
The Southern railway bridge over
the Catabwa river at Belmont, N. C,
has been washed away, carrying ten
or twelve workmen into the river.
Whether they were drowned has not
been learned. The Seaboard Air Line
bridge over the Catawba river at
Mount Holly, N. C, has collapsed, as
has the bridge over the Catawba on
the Salisbury-Asheville line. Many
highway bridges also have been swept
away.
Practically all railway traffic in
southwest Virginia and eastern West
Virginia was tied up tod?y, and tele
phone and telegraph wires were down
and heavy crop damage has been re
ported. Crops in some sections of
South Carolina also suffered heavily.
' "hi a
Asheville Suffers Heavily
ASHEVILLE, N. C, July 16. Flood
water which swept through the
French, Broad and Swanannoa valley
of North Carolina today took a to'.l
of five lives and property damage,
from tC.OOO.OOO to $10,000,000. Tonight
with the two rivers fifteen feet above
their banks the lower streets of
Asheville were inundated and th
town of Biltmore, further down, was
flooded to a depth of three to five
feet. Several houses in Biltmor.i
were carried away and many others
may be made uninhabitable "by tha
water.
The inundated sections of Asheville
are about 300 feet lower than the
business section. The Southern rail
way station is in the district where
(Continued from Page Three)
MOVEMENT
Thirty-two Are Dead
PARIS, July 16. Thirty-two Der
sons lost their lives in the riie ,.r
Tl, l)..::,.l i i t T..n ri n. I destroyed th
lilt- AJi nihil JlUUOi UUWiei'S UUWill'U, lUll, Jliltl, chateaus of King Constantine of
erdeen and Nellie have been sunk by German submar- :tree,e a,ul the crow" prince, says a
: , i- -j- ,i .i i . . , . .i HavoH dispatch from Athens. Twen
ties, urcoiuuig LU U UlSpaiCU Il'Om iVOemeeil lO Uie , ty-eight of the victims were members
of the royal guards. The police are
convinced the fire was started bv c-
Central News Agency.
Eleven survivors of the trawlers have been landed.
cldent.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 16. The war
department sent orders today to all
department commanders to delay
transportation to the border of na
tional guards' organizations now
mobilizing until they are thoroughly
equipped and organized. The effect
will be to revoke a ruling issued
when the Mexican situation was
acute, waiving certain requirements.
The order affects about 25,000 men
still held in the camps.
k The latest information of the de
partment is that about 100,000 na
tional guardsmen now are at the bor
der. With the 50,000 regulars there
and 5000 additional men called from
the reserves, officials estimate that
there is sufficient forces to cope with
any present emergency.
Reports tht national guard units
are being supplied poor and insuffi
cient food are not borne out In pre
liminary telegraphic reports received
from all the department commanders
today. These accounts uniformly de
clare that there haa been no food
shortage, among the guardsmen, and
that all have been supplied normal
army rations of good quality1. " De
tailed reports are being forwarded,
and a formal statement probably will
be issued later by the department.
the Massachusetts cnntinp-enl here
arrived today and immediately pitched th". flood is scvev.a feet deep, and all
camp. Arrivals from General Persh- ' al" lrm tne city has been
cancelled. At the Glenn Springs
hotel, just across the street from the
Southern station guests were forced
to the third floor by the rising wa?
ters. Tonight it was receding.
Hundreds of men women and chil
dren from the- cotton mills sections,
whose homes had been swept away,
crowded the city hall this afternoon
seeking food and sheltei. Hastily
formed relief committees set to work
to care for them.
Almost a'.l of the town of Biltmore.
!aid out twenty-five years ago by the
late George XV. Vanderbilt, Is under
water ranging in depth from three to
five feet. The town is cut off from.
Asheville by water a mile wide.
The property losses of lumber and
industrial plants throughout the sec
tion will be heavy. Wood-working
plants along the French Broad were
washed away, and housands of dol
lars' worth of lumber were dashed
against abutments of concrete and
UNTILE0U1PWIEHT IS COMPLETE
message from General Funston
today reported 'hat General Trevino
had sent miny troops south, with the
intention of occupving the Guerrero
San Boija-Santa Rosalia line against
any possible northward advance of
bandits. The dispatch added that
newspapers in Chihuahua were urg
ing the necessity of an active cam
paign against bandits "to prevent
their reaching United States forces
and border."
(Continued on Page Three)
Canadian Missionaries
Are Murdered Near Tokio
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TOKIO, July 16. The Rev. XV. A. F.
Campbell and his wife, Canadian mis
sionaries, were stabbed to death by a
burglar early this morning In their
summer, cottage at Karuizawa. The
weapon used was a Japanese short
sword, Karuizawa, which is an Amer
ican missionary summer center, has
been greatly excited by the murder.
At 2:30 o'clock this morning, accord
ing to the police accounts, a. Japanese,
dressed in foreign garb, entered a sec
ond story window of the cottage and.
after awakening the missionaries, de--manded
money. This being refused,
the intruder plunged a short sword in
to Mr. Campbell's breast, mortally
wounding him.
; Mrs. Campbell struggled heroically
with the assailant and was stabbed re
peatedly, succumbing to her wounds a
few hours later.
At the point of his sword, the burg,
lar, the police say, forced the Japanese
maid to disclose the cash box and then
made his escape with the $10.50 which
it contained.
