I --
Hi 'H
. I Way's Metal Prices 4 lv A fill CtW1vvwX 4 P. M. CITY EDITION fl
K J' JUl17';?IlVcCr' 62 7"3cJ teJ W- , WEATHER Utah: Tonight and ifl
lonoJ?nnSP ' J CPPCr' " t J SfcJj Tuesday Generally Fair; Not Much fl
t $24.00S26.00. f Change In Temperature. U fl
1 . FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 1 ! -
Fifty-sixth lYear No. 170. Prlco Flve Cent8. . QGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, JULY 17, '19l6. Entered as Second Claw Matter at th Pottofflce, Oden. Utah. J ' 1 1 I
III l A
i German Positions Northwest of Bazentin-Ie-Petit Wood Cap
tured in Stormy Attack Extending Over 1500-yard
Front Remaining Strongholds in Ovillers and La
Boiselle Also Taken Hundreds of Wounded
Germans Taken From Enormous Cellar by
British Litter Bearers During Heavy
Shell Fire Tragic Scenes
Enacted.
RUSSIANS DRIVING BACK GERMAN TROOPS
General Von Linsingen Forced to Withdraw Troops South
west of Lutsk to Point Behind the Lipa River
Hindenburg Reinforced.
Berlin, July 17, via London, 4:55 p. m. An artillery
bombardment of intense violence is in progress at many points
from the Somme district north to the sea on the western front,
the war office announced today, the German lines being
heavily pounded by the British guns.
The statement on operations along the western front,
says: "Between the sea and the Ancre the British at many
pointo increased their fire to great violence.
In the Somme district artillery activity has been very con
siderable on both sides. Local enemy attacks followed in
which the British penetrated into Ovillers wood a'hd which
have led to lively fighting."
Rome, July 1 7, via London, 3 : 1 2 p. m. The repulse of
a heavy attack by the Austrians in the upper Posina valley in
the Trentino as the result of an Italian counter attack was an
nounced today by the war office.
I I The British have won Important
new successes in the Somme region.
London today's reports the capture
of German second line positions along
a 1500 yard front. The Germans also
have heen completely driven out of
Ovillers and La Boiselle.
An important victory Is indicated
for the Russians in the Volhynian
sector. Berlin admits a retirement
at one point while Petrograd an
nounces the taking of 13,000 prison
ers Sunday.
Attacks On Lorraine.
Paris, July 17 Noon. The Ger
mans made two attacks in Lorraine
last night. The war office report of
today says both nsaults were repulsed.
The attacks In Lorraine were deliv
ered at a point southeast o Nomeny.
French Make Progress.
"West of Fleury the French made
some progress, taking three machine
guns. A raid on a trench in the Cham
pagne, occupied by Russian troops,
was met successfully by a counter at
tack, causing heavy loss to the Ger
On the Verdun front the night was
comparatively calm except in the vi
cinity of Hill 304, where rifle firing
was briek.
The announcement says:
""Between the Olse and Alsno before
Moulin Sous Toutevant a strong re
connoltcring part- of the enemy was
dispersed by our fire.
"In the Champagne a surprise at
tack delivered by the Germans against
a trench in the sector held by Russian
troops was broken up by a counter at
tack which inflicted losses.
Relatively Calm at Verdun.
"On the Verdun front the night was
relatively calm except near Hill 304
where there was spirited rifle firing.
West of Floury detachments of our
troops made some progress, and cap
tured three machine guns.
"After a rather long bombardment
:- the Germans delivered two nttacks
; against our positions in the region of
1 Ham, in Lorraine southeast of No-
i mony. Both attacks were repulsed
Wk ' nnd PrlBoners remained in our hands.
tfj London, July 17, 2:57 p. m. German
i S second line positions northwest of Bar
11 zentiri le Petit wood have been cap-
y m J tured by the BriHsh in a stormy at-
F ' ' tack, the war office announced today.
P The positions were captured in what
0
the statement characterizes as "a
further important success, extended
over a front of 1500 yards."
A strongly held position in Waterlot
farm, east of Longneval, also was cap
tured by the British, while the re
maining strongholds of the Germans
in Ovillers and La Boiselle also were
taken.
The statement says:
"A further important success has
been gained by us. Northwest of Ba
zentin le Petit wood we stormed
and captured German second lino posi-,
tions on a front of 1500 yards.
'East of Longueval we widened the
gap in the German second line by cap
turing the strongly defendd position
on the Waterlot farm.
"On our left flank, in Ovillers and
La Boiselle, we captured the remain
ing strongholds of the enemy."
British Capture Trench.
British Front in France, July 17.
Noon. Via London, 4:30 p. m. The
British today captured a German
trench in the neighborhood of" Pozl
eres. The capture of the trench
strengthens the new British line In
this vicinity.
The British also cleared out nests
of German machine operators who had
been holding out in cellars and be
hind barricades in the ruins of Ovil
lers and La Boiselle. Otherwise the
situation along the British front is un
changed at this hour.
A total of about 100 officers and
mon surrendered to the British who
had steadily closed. In upon them, us
ing bombs and trench mortars, the
Germans being short of food.
Hundreds of Wounded.
In an enormous cellar at Bczantin
le Petit, the British found several
hundred wounded Germans who had
taken refuge. It was tragic business
for the British litter bearers bringing
them back through the German shell
fire, which was meant for the British
reserves and gun positions. There
were cases where a litter bearer was
wounded and put on a 'stretcher emp
tied when a. wounded German on it
had been killed by the same shell. The
British persisted until all who had
not received a final wound in transit
were safo In the rear.
A captured record of a German bat
talion shows that 600 of its members
were killed or wounded by the British
H!l $" Some workers are spreading the false report that lam not
f I f a candidate for District Attorney at the Primaries on Monday,
July 17, 1916,
Zu, It I J hereby declare myself to be a candidate for District At-
' fl I torney f ofthi. District and ask my friends and supporters to
' 1 1 tUni t0 PriBmeS SUPPOrt my
shell fire in the bombardment before
the attack began.
German Troops Withdraw.
Berlin, July IS, via London, 4:1G
p. m. A withdrawal of German
troops under General von Linsingen,
southwest of Lutsk to a point behind
the river Lipa, is officially announced
by the war office today.
"Today's statement on operations
along the eastern front says:
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Hindenburg: Increased force west
and southwest of Riga and on, the
Dvina front preceding Russian enter
prises. Near Katarinehof, south of
Riga, considerable enemy forces at
tacked. Lively fighting developed
here.
"Army group of General 'von Lin
singen: Southwest of Lutsk a Rus
sian attack was arrested by a German
counter-attack. Thereupon, in order
to strengthen the line of defense the
troops were withdrawn behind the
Lipa without being molested by the
enemy. At other places the Rus
sians were completely repulsed."
Western Front Fighting.
"Lively fighting occurred south of
Biaches, but failed before our cur
tain of fire, or did not develop on ac
count of our fire. The number of
prisoners taken during the fight for
the possession of Biaches increased to
four officers and 3GG men.
"The more extensive attacks by the
French began on July 15, to the-east
of the Meuse (Verdun front) were
continued to this morning. The enemy
did not achieve any success in this
-sanguinary struggle but lost ground
at a few points.
"On the remainder of the front
there have been no incidents of
especial importance. A French ad
vance, following up an explosion near
uurcies, was repuiseu. wo carneu
out some explosions with good re
sults on Combres hill. A German pa
trol brought back a few prisoners
near Lanfroicourt, Lorraine.
"On July 15 two enem' aeroplanes
in addition to those reported yester
day, were put out of action, one in
an aerial battle behind the enemy
lines south of the Somme, while the
other was shot down from earth near
Dreslincourt-Oise within our lines."
Petrograd, July 17. The Russians
are continuing their successful ad
vance in the region of the Low.er
Lipa, the war office announced today.
The number of prisoners taken by the
Russians in Volhynia yesterday was
nearly 13,000.
Tho announcement follows:
German Resistance Breaks.
, "In Volhynia east and southeast of
Suinuhi (Sviniusky?) village our
brave troops have broken down (he
resistance of tho enemy. In battles
in the region of Pustomyty more than
1000 German and Austrian prisoners
havo been taken together with three
light guns, two heavy guns, machine
guns and much other military booty.
In these battles brave General Vladi
mir Draggmiroff was wounded in the
leg by a shrapnel splinter.
Many Prisoners Taken.
Tn the region of tho Lower Lipa
our successful advance continues.
The enemy is making a stubborn re
sistance. In battles in this region
we took prisoner 226 officers and
5782 mon. We also captured 24 guns,
of which twelve were heavy pieces,
together with fourteen machine guns
A few thousand rifles and other
equipments. We havo also captured
In this vicinity fifty-one officers nnd
2581 men.
"The total number of prisoners tak
en on July 10 in battles in Volhynia
is approximately 314 officers and 12,
637 men. We captured thirty guns,
on which seventeen were heavy
pieces, a great number of machine
guns and other material.
"In the direction of Kirlibaba on
the frontier of Transylvania we have
occupied a new set of positions.
"In tho region of Riga skirmishes
on both sides have been successful
for us and part of the enemy's
trenches have been taken together
with prisoners.
Great Success on Caucasus Front.
"Caucasus front: The offensive on
..I V, t- Pli.il." -.f mil. Ooimirno f vi-tn f
til lllll. 11U111V Ul lUl VVU.UOUO XL Uil
is developing. A great success was
obtained on July 16 by the Plastuney
division of Kuban Cossacks belong
ing to the column of General Gornas
taeff. The Turks sot fire to tho vil
lage of Balburt during their hasty re
treat thence."
British War Expense.
London, July 17, 4:02 p. m British
expenditures have now reached a total
of more than 6,000,000 pounds dally,
according to a statement mado by
Reginald McICenna, chancellor of the
exchequer In the houso of commons
today.
Italian War Report.
Homo, July 17. "In the upper Po
sina area tho enemy attempted to
stop our advance, delivering a heavy
attack supported by concentration ar
tillery fire between Monto Santo and
Monto Torairo. We mado a counter
attack and after severe hand to hand
fighting, repulsed tho enemy, along
the whole front.
"Hostile alrcrnft against shelled
Cortina di Ampezzo. We retailiated
on onr usual targets in the Drave
valley. . ,
"On July 15 our aircraft bombarded
camps in tho Folgaria area. Through
out vesterday the enemy displayed
much aerial activity, bombarding sev-
.
ANNAMESE TROOPS FIGHTING WITH ALLIES AT SALONICA
' 7 N
Annamese troops are now fighting with the allies at Salonica, having been called into the war by France.
Their equipment is most modern, excepting their hats, which are made of woven bamboo fibre covered with
khaki Annam is a French protectorate and tho soldiers now fighting for the allied cause are well trained.
They are near relatives to the Chinese.
eral points In the Camonlcona and
Adige valleys. There were no cas
ualties and damage was inflicted.
Last night, five hydro-aeroplanes drop
ped bombs on Trevlso killing one per
son -and wounding a few others. One
machine was brought down by our
fire. Two occupants of the machine
were killed."
German Steamship Sunk.
London, July 17, 5:35 p. m. Reu
ters Stockholm correspondent reports
the sinking by a Russian submarine
of the German steamship Syria. Her
crew and Swedish pilots were rescued.
The Syria, 3,607 tons gross, was
owned in Hamburg.
nn
BREAD DISEASE
IS INCREASING
New York Reports Fourteen
Deaths and 95 New Cases of
Infantile Paralysis in Past
' Twenty-four Hours.
New York, July 17. A further de
crease in the number of deaths and
new cases In the epidemic of infantile
paralysis was reported by tho health
department today. During the 24
hours ending at 10 o'clock this morn
ing 14 children died from tho disease
and there were 95 new cases in the
five boroughs of New York City.
New Bureau Beg)n6 Work.
New York, July 17. The new bur
eau of the health department made
possible by a gift of $50,000 from the
Rockefeller Foundation to help curb
tho epidemic of infantile paralysis be
gan work todav under the direction of
Dr. Alvah H. Doty. This bureau will
train families, members of which have
been exposed to tho disease.
To emphasize previous statements
that the disease is seldom contracted
by adults, the board announced today
that of tho 1.959 patients to date, only
17 were over sixteen years old.
WlKSce
Sixth Contingent to Arrives
Disembarks at Brest to Be
Sent to Fighting Line
Later.
Paris, Jury 17, 2 -p. m. A ooutimjeTrt
of Russian troops diHsmbrcckBd today
at Brest, Francre.
Tho Russian troops "win "be BOTft to
camp at Brest and later to the front.
This Is tho Kixth aontingcnit of Rus
sian troops, the arrival of which m
Fra-nco hi boen rtroorteu. Between
April 20 and Mav 5 there a-rrlved at
Marseilles five bodies of Russian soI-(
dlers .alter a lund and Bea journey of
about 17,500 mileB from JUdhobtw,!
whero they were avHamUteii, "to Port!
Dahi3 Manchuria., send HfcenuB 1y "wat
er via the Suez canaA. Tire nmabor
of men in the first five contingents
has nat been given officially but it is
believed to be about 25,000. These
troops" were quartered at Camp do
Mallly, near Troyes, for several weeks
and then sent to the front. The offi
cial -FTc"hch: communication of last
night showed that Russian troops were
in tho trenches in the Champagne.
It was said in Paris several weeks
ago that the sending of the first con
tingents was largely in the nature of
an experiment and that they might be
followed by more substantial num
bers. On the former occasion the
Russians arrived without arms, which
were supplied by the French. The ex
planation was given that it was easier
to send men out of Russia's surplus
to tho western front than to forward
arms and ammunition to the east.
DEEP SEA TREASURE
HUNTERS ARRIVE
New York, July 17. A deep sea
treasure hunting expedition financed
by wealthy Now York men arrived
today off the Virginia Capes. Its first
operations will be conducted at the
grave of the Ward line steamship
Meredla which went to the bottom
years ago carrying silver bars and
other treasure valued at more than
$1,000,000. The Meredia was rammed
by the United States steamship Admir
al Farragaut and sank 55 miles off
Cape Charles Light.
The expedition Includes the steam
ships Titnnia, Fearless and F. H.
Beckwith a wrecking vesel, a yacht
and a tug. It is under command of
George D. Stillson, who raised the
URGES BRITISH TO
LET JAPS RETAIN
CAPTURED ISLANDS
Baron Chinda. 1
Baron Chinda, -who until quite re
cently was tho Japanese ambassador
at "Washington, has been sect to Lon
don by his government to urge the
British to permit Japan to keep the
islands captured by the Japs from
the Germans in tho early days o the
1 war. Bnxon Chinda is recognized -as
: one of the ablest men in tho Japanese
! diplomatic service.
j submarine F-4 in Honolulu harbor last
year.
Wm FIANCEE
Chicago, July 17. Will H. Orpet,
acquitted of the murder of Marlon
Lambert by a Lake county jury at
Waukegan Saturday nighty spent yes
terday, his first day of freedom since
February 11, far away from the
crowds which had been his lot curing
the long weeks of his trial.
Tho young collegian arose about six
o'clock yesterday morning and shortly
afterwards accompanied by his moth
er and brother went for a long auto
mobile ride in the country about Lake
Forest.
Reports that he went In the direc
tion of River Forest where Miss Ce
lestia Youker resides and that he had
seen the girl during the day, could
not be verified last night Edward
O. Orpet, the father who remained at
tho home on ' the McCormick estate,
refused to disclose the whereabouts
of Will and would neither affirm or
deny the reports regarding Miss
Youker.
. nn
WARSHIPS MOT TO
PATROL THE COAST
Washington, July 17. There will
be no patrol of American warships off
the Virginia coast to see that allied
cruisers awaiting tho re-appearance
of tho German merchant submarine
Deutschland stay outside the three
mile limit. Secretary Daniels said to
day that tho United States assumed
that the territorial waters would not
be violated by the allied men of war.
So far as can be learned the Wash
ington government has not been noti
fied of the Deutschland's probable
sailing, but It Is believed she will
drop down from Baltimore to some
cove in the Chesapeake bay and slip
to sea on the first favorably dark
night.
on
BRITISH SEP MORE
GOLD TO NEW YORK
New York, July 17. Another ship
ment of approximately $20,000,000 in
gold was deposited at the assay office
up to 1S8,946,000 pounds since the
movement began, was received hero
today from London via Halifax. Tho
gold was deposited at the asay office
to the account of J. P. Morgan and
company.
Value of Battle Cruisers.
Washington, July 17. Discussion of
the relative value of battle cruisers
and battleships on which authorities
differ, was renewed today by publica
tion of a letter written by Rear Ad
miral Knight of the Naval War Col
lego to Socretary Danlols. upholding
the worth of the cruiser as brought
out In tho Jutland battle between the
British and German fleets. Tho en
gagement, said tho admiral, as far as
results are known, enhances tho im
portance of the battle crulsor.
t
RURAL CREDITS
BMSIGID
Measure Recently Passed by j I
Congress Becomes Law j I
Twelve Land Loan ! I
Banks Created. j I .
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH
' " !
Feels Profound Satisfaction j
and Real Gratitude Over I
Immensely Beneficial 1
Legislation. J
Washington, July 17. President j
Wilson today signed the rural credits .1
bill passed recently by congress. Just '9
before signing tho measure which ere
ates a system of twelve land loan
banks under direction of a federal 'I
board the president made a short ad- M
dress. fl
"I cannot go through the simple 9
. ceremony of signing this bill without S
expressing the feeling that I have in
signing it," said the president. "It is H
a feeling of profound satisfaction not
only but of real gratitude that we
have completed this legislation which jH
1 hope will be immensely beneficial
of the country.
"The farmers. It seems to me. hav9
occupied hitherto a singular position fl
of disadvantage. They have not had jH
the same freedom to get, credit on
their real estate that others have had,
who were in manufacturing and com
mercial enterprises, and while they
have" sustained our life they did not, Jn IH
the same degree with some others, HH
share in the benefits of that life.
Farmers On Equal Footing.
"Therefore this bill along with the
very liberal provisions of the federal
reserve act puts them upon an equal
ity with all others who have genuine
assets and makes the great credit of
the country available to them.
"I look forward to the benefits of JM
this bill not with extravagant expec
tations but with confident expectation M
that It will be of very wide reaching H
benefit and Incidentally it will be of
advantage to the investing community wi
for I can Imagine no more satisfactory
and solid investments than this ays- 9ft
tein will afford those who have money M
to use." ,jl
The president used two pens in &l
signing the bill and gave one of them 1J
to Senator Fletcher of Florida who fl
asked permission to present it to tho 1
Southern Commercial Congress.
In addition to the number of mem
bers of house and senate, the signing
was witnessed by David Lubiu, one
of the originators of the bill and re
presentative of tho National Grange,
the Farmers' Educational and Co-Op-eratlve
Union, the Farmers' National
Congress and tho National Council oC
Farmers' Co-Operatlve Association.
oo j
I BITS IRE L
F0IDII9SHI ,
ie f
Brigham City, July 17. A recruit-
iug meeting for the Citizens Training
camp to be conducted in Salt Lake,
from August 21 to September 16, was
held In this city Saturday evening, 15
but little interest was shown in the id-J;
proposition for the reason that there ie?
are no men available in this city for d..$
that purpose. Tho meeting was ad- : a.tl
dressed by Lieutenant E. Santchi. HaJ
Captain W. H. Gregory of Salt Lake yj
was also in attendance. At the om-
L... ii.k nftor thn meetinc. which idflll
was held in front of the court house. MH1
one local man was recruited, Dewey fetHU
Cardwell responding. Cardwell was j,TO
one of the volunteers who responded e$M
to the recent call for men to join SaW
the state militia, but for some reason J B
he was rejected after reaching Fort jt jm
DOnlabehalf of tho visiting officials, Igpl
Mayor Erdmann named a committee r
composed of Attorneys William B. p :
Davis, Leroy B. Young and Wjnn I,. J -Eddy
as a committee to muster up all
prospective recruits and have them
gathered in the Commercial club j
fome night this ill
clals will return and talk the fining fl
camp proposition over with them. .j f
oo :!
LEAVE WITH PAY 11
GRANTED VETERANS Jl
Wilson allowing all veterans .of the ,
Civil war In the service of the feder- i
al government leave with pay to at
tend the Grand Army Encampment In
Kansas City, Mo., August 26 to Sep- ..
tember 3. i
i fl
