Railways Company Operating 17 Cars; Jitneys Pick Up Nickels; No Disorder
HARRISBURG iSSIISa TELEGRAPH
I YYYV \T„ lAA BY CARRIERS « CENTS A WEEK.
JUA.A.A.V I\o. iOH" SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
STRIKE BREAKERS
• BROUGHT
CLAIM OF UNION
Company Says 100 New Men Are at Car Barn, bat That
Only Loyal Employes Have Been Used Thus Far in
Hope That Strikers Will Quit Organization and Re
tarn to Their Posts; Jit neys Grab the Nickels; 17
Trolleys Running on Various Lines
MAURER ADDRESSES MASS MEETING
OF EMPLOYES IN MARKET SQUARE
Parade Over Streets; No Disorders Reported, but Police
Disperse Crowd at Cameron and Market Streets;
Patrolmen Called to Railways Offices, but Are Not
Needed; Trains Carry Hundreds to Steel Mills; Pax
tang Park Will Be Closed Daring Continuance of
Trouble
Claims that more than 150 strike breakers have been brought
here from New York by the Harrisburg Railways Company were
made by leaders of striking employes at noon.
Officials of the Railways Company, although they admitted
that there were about 100 new men at the car barns who could be
placed on cars, declared that for the present only the old employes
who have remained loyal will be used in the service.
James A. Steese, chief clerk in the State Department of Labor
and Industry, offered the Railways Company officials, and the strik-!
ers the services of the State Board of Mediation.
John J. Thorpe, vice-president of the Amalgamated Associ
ation of Street and Electric Railway Employes, who is leading the
strike movement here, stated that the men would consider the offer.
President Frank B. Musser, of the company, sent word that he
was "too busy" to see anyone when reporters called to learn what he I
would do about the offer of Mr. Steese.
Seventeen cars—one more than the
1 number in service yesterday—were
sent out from the barns this morning
and service was started on all routes
except North Cameron street, Vine
street and Linglestown.
Railways company officials stated
that they believe some of the men in
the union will return tc work soon, but
the union officials claim that the men
are determined to stay out until con
cessions are granted.
Mass Meeting In Square
A big mass meeting was held in
Market Squaro at noon to-day, when
John J. Thorpe, vice-president of the
Amalgamated Association of Street
and Electric Railway Employes, who
is in charge of the local situation, in
troduced to the large crowd that col
lected James If. Maurer, president of
the Pennsylvania Federation of Labor.
Maurer Asks Public's Support
Mr. Maurer spoke of the griev
ances of the men and asked for the
support of the public. Small cards
were distributed with slogan "I walk;
will you?" The requests of the em
ployes were told to the crowd amid
THE WEATHER
For Harrlsburg and vicinity: Part
ly cloudy to-nlckt and Tuesday;
not much change In tcmpernture-
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Partly
cloudy to-night and Tuesday;
probably aliunrrii in east portion
to-night t moderate north and
northeast winds.
River
The Susquehannu river and Its prin
cipal branches will rise somewhat
or remain nearly stationary. A
stage of about 4.0 feet IN Indicated
for Harrlsburg Tuesday morning.
General Conditions
Pressure la relatively high on the
North Pacific coust, along: the
northern border front Minnesota
-astward to the St. Lawrence
river and off the Middle Atlan
tic coast; elsewhere It Is gener
ally below the seasonal average,
hut with no disturbance of im
portance within the field of obser
vntlon.
I.lght to moderate shower* have
occurred In the Ohio Valley und
Tennessee and In the Middle At
lantic and northern portion of
the South Atlantic States, the
Tpper St. I.awrence Valley, the
Xorth Pacific States.
Temperature changes have not been
Important.
Temperature: 8 a. m., 70.
Sun: Rises, 4:51 a. m.; sets, 7:31
p. m.
Moon: Rises 0.31 p. m.
River Stage: 3.8 feet above low
water murk.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, S3,
Lowest temperature. 00.
Mean temperature, 7ti.
Normal temperature, 75,
Getting used to strange
newspapers Is like breaking in
a pair of new shoes—mighty
uncomfortable. Order the
Harrisburg Telegraph mailed
to your vacation address if
you would enjoy real comfort.
Six cents a week will bring
the Telegraph to you no mat
«£■ t x.
cheers and Mr. Maurer then discussed
the attitude of the company officials.
Rupley Urges Co-operation
Ex-Congressman Arthur R. Rupley,
of Carlisle. al3o addressed the men,
stating that no results would be ob
tained until the capital and labor rep
resentatives co-operated. Following
the addresses the men disbanded. A
meeting was held at 26 North Third
street at 2 o'clock, when more ad
dresses were made, the men all signify
ing their intention not to return to
work.
About 200 Are Out
Thorpe in speaking of the strike
at noon said that four new members
have been added to the union and that
three of the four who left the union
yesterday returned again to-day and
would not operate cars.
The strike situation remained prac
tically the same to-daj as it was yes
terday, when almost 200 of the rail
ways employes left their cars and did
not return to work.
Plans for service to-morrow have
not been completed, according to
officials of the company, and they still
hope that some of the men will return
and leave the union. Service to-day
was practically the same as yesterday,
but some of the crews were relieved
this afternoon. Those who manned
the cars stoically remained on the job,
disregarding jibes and jeers from their
striking comrades.
No disorder was reported at any
place. At Cameron and Market streets
a large crowi collected and blocked
the switch at 8 o'clock this morning,
but traffic was opened by the police
and the crowd remained orderly after
ward.
Men Hold Parade
The strikers organized a parade at
Fourth and Market streets shortly
after 11 o'clock with Mr. Thorpe and
the union officials in the lead. The
men marched east in Market street to
Cameron street and south in Cameron
street to the power plant. They then
returned to Market Square for the
mass meeting. Plans are under way
for another street parade to-night, be
ginning about 7 o'clock.
According to Mr. Thorpe, more than
150 strike-breakers are being kept
[Continued on Page 7]
Orpet Acquitted of
Murder Charge After
Jury Is Out Five Hours
Waukegan, 111., July 17.—Will Orpet
was Saturday night found not guilty
of the murder o'. Marion Lambert.
At 7.46 o'clock the jury, out 4 hours
and 56 minutes, entered the court
room. Judge Donnelly received the
verdict. He read it:
"We, the jury, find the defendant,
William Orpet, not guilty."
The most composed person in the
entire courtroom was William Orpet.
He smiled when the verdict was read
and kissed his mother
Plan to Dispose of Naval
Bill and Take Up Army
Washington, July 17. Consider
ation of the naval appropriation bill
was resumed in the Senate to-day with
Democratic leaders bent on its dispos
al in time to take up also this week
the army bill. -Democrats are deter
mined to pass the more important leg
islation and adjourned by August 20.
To-day they sought to hold Republi
cans to their promise of co-operation.
The naval bill's building program
was debated to-day. This feature of
the measure is radically different from
the house bill. It provides for com
pletion of the navy general board's
five-year building plan within three
years and puts the number of capital
[sups to. be
GERMANS HIDE THE MERCHANT SUBMARINE
(Arrow Shows the Deutschland)
In deadly fear that some one will blow up or try to Injure the merchant submarine Deutschland the Ger
mans in charge of her have hidden her away in Baltimore harbor so it is almost impossible for the public to get
a glimpse of her. She is alongside a pier and is flanked on the opposite side by a barge. At one end is the high
wall of a warehouse, and at the other, ic a tug. Strung along the warehouse and the pier is barbed wire. Ex
tending out from the barge is a boom, and from this boom wire netting is dropped to the bottom so that the
only possible approach to the vessel is from directly above. Even a view of more than the periscope and an
occasional outline of the deck is Impossible The boat In the distance is German interned merchantman
Neckar.
NAME OFFICERS
FOR RECRUITING
Captains Stine and Mikle
Placed on Board by
Governor
Captains Henry M. Stlne and Frank
Mikle, of this city, former officers of
the Eighth Regiment of the National
Guard, and Major A. M. Porter, of the
Slate Department of Public Grounds
and Buildings, a veteran of the Tenth
Regiment, are among the officers se
lected to-day to undertake recruiting
duty of the organizations of the Na
tional Guard of Pennsylvania now on
the Texas border. They* will be as
signed to stations by the United States
army officers.
The announcement of the first selec
tions for recruiting officers was made
to-day by Adjutant General Thomas
J. Stewart, who has been working day
and night on the plans since Friday.
The appointments are being made by
the Governor and officers named In
clude some from the retired and super
numerary lists of the Guard. It la
[Continued on Page 4]
Present Prosperity Is
Entirely Due to Conflict,
Congressman Kreider Says
In a communication to the Philadel
phia Public Ledger commenting on
the statement of the head of the Bald
win Locomotive Works that the crest
of war prosperity had been reached.
Congressman Aaron S. Kreider, of the
Harrisburg district, and president of
the National Boot and Shoe Manufac
turers' Association, says:
"I agree with Alba B. Johnson's
statement. Business to be permanent
must be built on a sound economic
basis. Our present prosperity is en
tirely due to the war, and when the
war ends will disappear as quickly as
it came. Conditions in the United
States are abnormal and must become
normal before we can successfully
compete in foreign markets.
"We control certain markets now
because our cdmpetitors have become
our customers. The election of Hughes
and the enactment of a protective
tariff law will enable us to retain our
own market and thereby greatly re
lieve. but not entirely obviate, the de
pression sure to follow peace in
Europe.
Prohibitionists Gather For
National Convention
By Associated Press
| St. Paul, Minn., July 17. —Most of
| the 1,250 delegates to the Prohibition
| national convention, which opens here
Wednesday, are expected to arrive to
day to attend the "get together" con
ference to-morrow, when the union of
all forces opposed to the liquor traffic
will be discussed by nationally known
reformers,
j The convention proper will be called
ito order in the Auditorium at 10
| o'clock Wednesday. Sessions will be
I hel Thursday and Friday, the selection
lof presidential and vice-presidential
candidates coming on the final day.
Two-Men Teams From Here
in Rotary Tournament
By Associated Press
Cincinnati, Ohio, July 17. The
seventh annual convention of the In
ternational Association of Rotary
Clubs opened here to-day with more
than 5,000 delegates present.
Businessmen from almost every State
in the Union and a large delegation
'< from Canada are in attendance.
Among the amusements participated
jin by the delegates was the Rotary
golf tournament which started to-day
with 24 Rotary clubs from as many
cities entered. Cities which have en
tered two men teams included Harris
burg, Pa. '
Howard C. Fry, president of the
local Rotary Club, will captain one
team and Arthui D. Bacon, a former
president, the other.
JTMENEB TO SEE WILSON
By Associated Press
New York. Jnly 17.—Juan I. Jlme
nes, formerly president of San Do
mingo, was a passenger on board the
steamer Coamo, which arrived to-day
from San Juan, Porto Rico. Mr.
Jimenes is en route to Washington,
where he will see President Wilson.
Although Mr. Jimenes would not dis
cuss the object of his mission to the
United States, I? is understood that he
comes to protest against the outcome
. 9( ressflt fttestioagiaSftß
HARRISBURG, PA.. MONDAY EVENING, JULY 17, 1916.
JEALOUS LOVER
SHOOTS HIMSELF
"Report Me on Relief' He Tells
Rival Refore Putting Rul
let in Rrain
r
- _
o- . ■
MYLIN WEIDMAN
"Report me on the relief," Mylln
Weidman, aged 21 years, clerk in the
I Pennsylvania railroad yards at Enola,
' early Saturday night said to Theodore
I Nicholas, his rival in love, a Pennsy
caller. A short time later Weidman
was in the Harrisburg Hospital with
a 32-callber bullet in his brain. Be
fore midnight he was dead.
Jealousy was said to be the cause
[Continued on Page 4]
Pastor Denies Charge
of Intimacy With
Woman in Movie
| The Rev. J. G. Rosenberger, pastor
; of the United Evangelical church at
Penbrook, arrested Saturday night on
a charge of indecent assault, has ask
ed that judgment by his congregation
be suspended until a thorough In
vestigation is made. This was a state
ment made to-day by the Kev. W. S.
Harris, who is identifies with the
United Evangelical church in Harrls
burK and who with others is making
inquiries in the case.
The Rev. Mr. Rosenberger attended
a downtown theater Saturday night.
| While there he was arrested by Patrol
| mari Harry Lowery on complaint of
'Mrs. Priscilla Fralick, «46 Verbeke
street. A preliminary hearing was
gi\ en the pastor by Alderman James
Dehhong. The Rev. Mr. Rosenberger
furnished SSOO bail for his appearance
In court.
At both services at the- Penbrook
United Evangelical Churcn yesterday
the pastor proclaimed his innocence
and asked that judgment be suspended
until all the facts of the case are
learned.
Naval Militiamen All
Of! on Training Cruise
By Associate J Press
Philadelphia, July 17. —The battle
ship Illinois and the cruiser Chicago
with naval militiamen aboard, sailed
I from the Philadelphia navy yard at
j sunrise to-day for the annual prac
tice cruise oft the southern New Eng
land coast.
I The battleships Indiana and Rhode
Island with middle western militia
men, which left the yard early yester
day, passed out to sea last night. The
departure of the Illinois was delayed
until to-day because of the late ar
rival of the South Carolina militia
men. The Chicago has Philadelphia
and Delaware contingents aboard.
CONSIDER CLARKE NOMINATION
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., July 17.—The
nomination of Judge John H. Clarke,
of Ohio, to be associate justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States
to succeed former Justice Hughes was
considered by the Senate Judiciary
Committee to-day and formally re
ferret. to a subcommittee consisting
of Senators Overman, O'Gorman,
Fletcher, Clark, of Wyoming, and Dil
lingham. No objections to the nomi
nation have been filed and the full
committee expects to hear from the
subcommittee and to recommend con
firmation fttjta agggpg aMfijadjiy.
5 DIE IN FLOOD;
LOSS MILLIONS
Scores of Industrial Plants In
undated by Waters From
Rroken Dams
By Associated Press
Asheville, N. C., July 17. Scores
of large industrial plants around
Asheville lay idle to-day In the grip
of the flood that followed last week's
rainstorms and hurricane which
swept in from the Carolina coast and
flooded portions of North and South
Carolina, and adjacent territory of
Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.
Five persons are known to have been
drowned, fifty are missing and hun
dreds are homeless, while railroad ser
vice is virtually suspended in a large
section on all sides of Asheville.
The Swannanoa and French Broad
j [Continued on Page 4]
Scientific Expedition
in Deep Sea Treasure
Hunt For Bullion Bars
Special to the Telegraph
Washington, July 17.—A scientific
treasure trove expedition, ander the
command of a United States naval ex
pert and advised by government sub
marine authorities, is oft the Virginia
Capes. The first objective point of the
expedition is the deep-sea grave of the
Ward liner Merida, which was rammed
tour years ago by the United Fruit
Company steamship Admiral Farragut,
and went down 55 miles off the Cape
j Charles Light, carrying to the bot
[ torn a cargo of silver bars and other
! treasures valued at more than $1,000,-
; 000.
The expedition includes the steam
vessels Titania, Fearless and F. H.
Beckwlth, a wrecking vessel, a yacht
and a tug. and Is under the command
of George D. Stillson, for many years
in charge of the government diving
work and the man who raised the
| submarine F-4, In Honolulu harbor,
last year. It has been sent out from
New York by the Interocean Submarine
Engineering Company, a corporation
of which Rear Admiral Colby M. Ches
ter, U. S. N., retired, is the president.
The company has been financed by
Percy Rockefeller, of Standard Oil in
terest; Charles H. Sabin, president of
the Guaranty Trust Company, of New
York, and others.
The fleet sailed from New Tork on
Friday afternoon, and will touch at
Norfolk.
If this first undertaking is carried
out as rapidly as Its promoters be
lieve possible, the treasure-seeking ex
pedition will turn its attention to other
vessels wrecked on the Atlantic coast
and which are known to contain treas
ure. The scope of the scheme may be
extended to the salvage of boats sunk
by submarines during the European
war.
American Warships Will
Not Patrol Deutschland Out
Washington, July 17. There will
be no patrol of American war ships oft
the Virginia coaqt to see tnat allied
cruisers awaiting the reappearance of
■ the German merchant submarine
Deutschland stay outside of the three
mile limit.
Secretary Daniels said to-day that
the United States assumed that Its
territorial waters would not be violated
by the allied men of war and had no
fear that the underwater merchant
man would be attacked before she
reached the high seas. So far as can
be learned the Washington govern
ment has not been notified of the
Dculschland's probable sailing date.
It is believed that she will drop down
fiom Baltimore to some cove in the
Chesapeake bay and from there slip
to sea on the first favorable dark
nitfht.
U-BOAT TO SAIL SOON
By Associated Press
Baltimore, Md., July 17.—Announce
ment was made to-day that after to
morrow no more visitors will be al
lowed on board the German merchant
submarine Deutschland. This was
taken as an indication that the under
water liner will leave Baltimore before
the middle of the week, but no in
formation could be obtained from the
official who mcde the announcement
about visitors .
Stevedores resumed the work of
putting the cargo of rubber and nickel
Into the hold of the submersible early
to-day, the loading having been sus
pended over Sunday, (
RUSSIANS AND
BRITISH MAKE
GREAT GAINS
London Reports Capture of
Second Line Positions
Along 1,500 Yards
NEW BOMBARDMENT
Berlin Admits Falling Back in
Volhynia; Petrograd Claims
13,000 Captives
The British have won Important
new successes in the Somme region.
London to-day reports the capture of
German line positions along a 1,500- j
yard front near Bazentin-le-Petit
Wood and a position strongly held by
the Germans east of Longueval. The
Germans a'.so have been completely
driven out of Ovillieres and La Bois
selle.
Berlin announces an increasingly
heavy bombardment of the German;
lines by British guns north of the,
Somme region. The fire at many
points betwee nthe Ancre river and the j
sea has risen to a degree of great, in- 1
tensity.
In the Somnie sector the Berlin war
office admits British penetration of i
Ovillers wood.
Ruse Win Bis Victory
An important victory is indicated
for the Russians in the Volhynian sec
tor. Berlin admits a retirement of
[Continued on Page 12]
DETECTIVES* SLAYER DIES
By Associated Press
Bellefonte, Pa.. July 17.—Jacob Mil
ler, 21 years old. of Philadelphia,
slayer of Harry Tucker and James
Maneely, Philadelphia detectives, was i
electrocuted here to-day. Miller went j
to the chair with a prayer on his lips j
and a plea for forgiveness from those I
he had wronged. He left a writt j
confession warning young men that |
drink was the cause of his downfall, j
The crime for which Miller paid the |
death penalty occurred March 25. j
1915. He shot his captors, who had
arrested him for robberv.
FAVORABLY REPORT HAY
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., July 17.—A fa-!
vorable report on the 'nomination of
Representative James Hay, of Vir-1
! sinia, as a justice of the Court of I
Claims was voted to-day by the Senate i
I Judiciary Committee.
! '
UEER PREDICTS SUCCESS * '
I r headquarters, 26 North Third street,
Bet car men held a session during the after- ®
H. Maurer, president of the Pennsylvania
abor, as the principal speaker. He urged the 4 J .
Hand predicted success. No disorder was re- f
pin the city during the afternoon. A report ,
rns had been quarantined because strike
brt, were brought here from New York City, and might f
< I be carric tile paralysis germs, was denied by the
Cty B i as i faent. A number of stores in the city
. i turned over their trucks for jitney service during the day, 1
and placarded them with signs.
| f INFANTILE PARALYSIS ON DECREASE ' '
New York, July 17. —A further decrease in the number |
, of deaths and Hew cases in the epidemic of infantile 4
'; paralyse; was reported by the Health' Department. During )> :
i' '■ ,e. h o'c' corning, ( '
fom 1 hed of the disease and ninety-five new
cases v ere reported. ) i
SURFACE WILL NOT RESIGN , ,
ors that the State Commission of Agriculture had •'
j i asked for the resignation of Dr. H. A. St e Zoolog
* ist, we ■ co.i-t 1 o-day by Dr. Surface, who declared ' '
| . that he hid not complied with the request and did not think
JJ \ he would. The zoologist and officials of the Department of 1
| I Agricultufe have b« is occasionally in the last few
. yea iy.S ago the Commissioner told Secre- *..
| l tary of A Patton to either get Surface's resigna- 1 '
tion or dismiss him It is said that the zoologist insisted on
reasons for the action against him and will appeal to Gover- * *,
nor Pi ;; i' • h. The Governor is in Main': and the dispute
' has nut yet gotten to him. Meanwhile Dr. Surface is hold- | jr,
< ing on to his place and says he is backed up by thousands ;
I of people. He says he will make a statement about the mat- ,
! ■ ter in a day or so.
, Atlanta, Ga., July 17.—1t was persistently rumored to
< I day that the Lake Toxaway dam had given a\vay. Railroad 1 '
officials in Asheville said they did not credit the report, g
, f There was no wire communication with LakeToxaway.
J MARRIAGE LICENSES |
John Frnnkltn Hippie and Caroline Elisabeth Honofoa*, city.
William Urrhm and Margaret Warner, city.
Blmon I.awrence KeUter and Mary Bella DeHart, city. Jk
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
MAY WITHDRAW
EXPEDITION IN
THIRTY DAYS
Pershing's Force to Come Out
of Mexico During Next
Month
POWER IS GROWING
Carranza's Mastery Reported to
Be Stronger Than Any of
Predecessors
i \
Mexico Announces
Crisis Is Now Over
Mexico City, July 17.—1t is an
nounced here officially that the
differences which have arisen be
tween tho United States and Mex
ico may be considered as satisfac
torily settled. It is expected that
details of the conference between
Secretary of State Lansing and
Ambassador Arredondo will be
1 given out soon.
J
Washington, I_>. C., July 17.—Official
reports received here indicate that
I Carranza's control in Mexico is crys
tallizing so rapidly that Brigadier
(ieneral Pershing's force will .be with
drawn across the border within a
month. It is now estimated by army
officers that the National Guard will
be relieved or border duty within
three months. American army officers
in Mexico report that the "First
Chief's" mastery in northern Mexico
is stronger than that exercised by any
of his predecessors since the days of
Diae.
The secret of Carranza's growing
[Continued on Page 4]
ANY OF YOURS PROTESTED?
Washington, July 17.—Out of near
jly 10,000,000 depositors who have
maintained checking accounts in na
i tional banks there has been an aver
age of 1039 protest checks reeeivec'.
daily for the last three months, for an
'average daily total of $141,570, accord
linz to figures compiled to-day by tho
! controller of the currency. The larg
! est total for the three moiiths was in
New York where 3,187 checks with ft
j face value of more than $1,000,000
| were protested. Philadelphia was sec
j ond and protested 1,036 for $191,-
[l6B.
