Oregon Historical Society
tomp 201 Bw!0lU st
Ashland
Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, JULY 17, 1916
NUMBER 16"
IT TT T T XU ,-4
1JJ1AUS
Sunflowers Bloom on Lapels of
Two Hundred Former Kansans
Wearing huge yellow sunflowers
and the smile of content which always
follows a typical Kansas dinner, over
two hundred former residents of the
Jayhawker state left In private cars
and jitneys for their homes through
out the valley Thursday evening after
enjoying the greatest gathering of
Kansans which the Rogue River val
ley has seen. They came from far
and near, and if It were not for the
panegyric of the present achieve
ments of the Sunflower state which
was given by Attorney Hurd of Med
ford during the morning program, an
unprejudiced bystander might have
. been led to wonder who was left at
home to till the cornfields when all
these people emigrated to the Rogue
River valley.
The gathering was the third annu
al meeting of the Kansas society of
the valley and in point of attendance
rivalled any state gathering which
has ever been held In the valley and
in point of general enjoyableness out
shone any. The day's entertainment
began with a program given in the
Chautauqua building.
The attendance in the Chautauqua
building when the program started
at 9:30 a. m. far excelled all expec
tations, and the program was a very
interesting one, not only to the for
mer Kansans, but to their friends,
who were present.
S. S. Smith, president of the Kan
sas society, presided.
The first number on the program
was a splendid splo by George An
drews of Medford, who responded to
a hearty encore. , t
E. H. Hurd, recently from Wichita,
spoke on "Kansas, Her People, Prog
ress and Prosperity." Mr. Hurd
said:
"Kansas, her people, products and
prosperity, is not as broad a subject
. as one might think, as it does not
take in her climate and scenery.
What Kansas lacks in that respect
Oregon makes up."
He paid the greatest tribute to her
people, those who laid the foundation
for a free Kansas as well as those who
later made Kansas famous. Among
those famous of the present day men
tioned ware General Fred Funston
Victor Murdock, Henry J. Allen, Ar
thur Capper, and particularly Mar
garet Hill McCarter, the literary gen
ius of Kansas.
He said Kansas did -not let her
present wealth and prosperity and
the fact that she is first In bank de
posits, automobiles, stock and wealth
per capita keep her from being first
for world's peace. He spoke of her
lead in the union in education and
morals.
Miss Lillian Hilty of Ashland sang
a very pleasing solo and responded
to an encore.
Superintendent W. G. Steel told
the story of his first learning of the
Oregon "lost lake" in a newspaper
when a small boy attending a coun
try Bchool in Labette county, Kansas,
how it interested him and he resolved
to find that world wonder. He said
It never left his mind, and later when
he came to Oregon with his parents
he began to inquire about the lake,
but it was "seven years before he
found anyone who had even heard
of it. C. B. Watson of Ashland was
the first man to tell him of it, and
they soon started on a search and
found what is now Crater Lake. Su
perintendent Steel told many Inter
esting things about the lake, the se
curing of the national park, the In
dian legend and superstition about
that famous wonder.
J. B. Hunter of Ashland gave an
excellent reading.
Francis Labadie, a witty Chautau
qua French Canadian, told of his
travels in Alaska and other countries,
weaving in his quaint humor beauti
ful word pictures of the life and cus
toms of the people in an unusually
pleasing and Interesting manner. He
recited several splendid selections,
chief among which was "The Shoot
ing of Dan MeGrew."
The good things on the program
lasted until noon, when the Kansans
adjourned to the picnic grounds in
Llthla Park, where under the" super
vision of Mesdames Ashcraft, Stoner,
Edglngton and other Ashland ladies
great pots of coffee were bubbling
over the gas plates and tables for
on hundred and fifty were drawn up
together. When all of the crowd had
arrived the tables were found to be
of insufficient seating capacity and
others were drawn up until almost
two hundred sunflowers nodded their
heads about the board. Even then
aome were obliged to find room at
nearby tables in groups of four to
eight. And the great stacks of good
things that appeared as if by magic
from the roomy baskets and disap
peared again, but not back into the
baskets. Coffee and cream furnished
by the Ashland members added the
finishing touch.
After the smallest and the largest
had all had their fill, reminiscences
and tales of Kansas were indulged in
by a score of those present. Among
the speakers were: Mrs. J. McClar
en, C. H. Pierce, J. A. Westerlund,
M. C. Edglngton, Mrs. H. W. An
drews, Rev. J. S. Smith, Mr. Edwards
Sr., Mr. Edwards Jr., Hawkins and
S. S. Smith, Kansans. Mrs. Sleeth of
Portland, formerly of Lawrence, a
Btate W. C. T. U. worker, told of the
Quantrel raid and other events, and
T. B. Ellison, who was a member of
.the Kansas legislature when the pro
hibition amendment was submitted,
told of that important event.
Fred Mears, a loyal Iowan, was
called upon and made a splendid talk
on observations of Kansas, her splen
did citizenship, interesting events,
her noted men and grand women.
Rev. J. C. Rollins told some good
stories about Kansas and paid a high
tribute to that grand state and its
remarkable progress.
S. S. Smith declined the offer of
nomination for president for another
year on the grounds that honors
should be distributed, and the follow
ing officers were elected: President,
V. O. X. Smith of Ashland; vice-president,
Will G. Steel of Medford and
Crater Lake; secretary and treasurer,
M. C. Edginton of Ashland The of
ficers will appoint an executive com
mittee from all parts of the valley to
plan for the next year's meeting,
which will undoubtedly be held in the
same beautiful park surroundings
during the Chautauqua period. All
former Kansans are invited to send
their names, addresses, former Kan
sas address and the yearly member
ship dues of 25 cents to the secretary,
Chautauqua
Finals
To-Night Fred Emerson Brooks, the great Califor
nia Poet, Humorist and Reader. Made a great
hit when here in 1912.," You'll like Brooks.
AIpo Tuesday at 2:30 p. ru.'
Tuesday Night The grand finale The Great
Larimcre Circus 200 trained "animals." Some
thing doing every minute, and sometimes twice a
minute. It is worth your wnile to see what the
youngsters can do they'll make it interesting.
Ashland Has Great Asset in Granite
Which Rivals Barre Product
Eight Pass Through
The Golden Arch
With the closing of Tuesday's pro
gram Ashland has made another
stride forward as a Chautauqua and
convention center, and the twenty
fourth session will go down into his
tory as the best ever held in south
ern Oregon. The program was par
excellent. The talent great and un
surpassed. One of the most attrac
tive features, and which should have
been given a whole evening, was on
the Friday, afternoon program, the
C. L. S. C. class graduating exercises,
and was pronounced by those fortun
ate enough to be present the most
beautiful and impressive of the
course. The building was handsome
ly decorated. Four arches were built
in the center aisle, decorated with the
class colors of 1916-1917, with the
following inscriptions, Literature,
Science, History, Art. The platform
was artistically arranged with the col
ors green and red. Handsome bas
kets of flowers and bouquets. In
front and across the stage was a large
thus getting in touch with one of the banner wl,h tl,ls motto- "Knowledge
most likable groups of people in the J maketn a" mankind akin. in tne
valley, the former Kansans.
Will Be Known
As Hotel Austin
center of the platform a double arch
way was erected. On one side was a
Golden Gate, and on the other the
Open Road. The effect was very
beautiful and very artistically ar
ranged by the members of the class.
At the appointed time the past presi
dent, Mrs. J. T. Rocho, took the plat
form and delivered the class history
in a most graceful and deliberate
A huge electric sign, thirty-five
feet long, with letters three feet In
height, is being erected upon the roof ! manner, telling hom this class first
of what has been the, Hotel Oregon
but will hereafter be known-as the
Hotel Austin. The change in the
name of the hotel rather seems like
disturbing the customs of our fore
fathers, but on second thought would
appear to be a good move. As one
traveling man put it, "The old Hotel
Oregon had a national reputation
which it would take the new hotel
a long time to live down." Anyway,
hereafter people will please refer to
Ashland's best hotel as the Hotel Austin.
Manager Chlsholm tells us that as
soon as, his furniture arrives the ho
tel will be furnished with new furni
ture completely from top to bottom.
While many improvements were
made in the furniture at the time or
the remodelling, some of the old fur
nlture was used in the lower priced
rooms.
The hotel was formerly opened un
der the new management last night
with a table de hote dinner which
was a culinary conquest. Manager
Chlsholm has a chef who is a real
chef. The help in the kitchen is all
white help and the service in the din
ing room outclasses anything which
has been offered in Ashland hotels
heretofore. A crowd which filled
the dining room was present, over
half coming from Medford, where
Mr. Chisholm's dinners had estab
lished his reputation while he man
aged the Hotel Austin in that city.
Delightful music was furnished by a j
trio consisting of Harry Howells, I
Florence Clark and John Anderson.
Mr. Chlsholm states that he was
much pleased with his reception, and
those who were fortunate enough to
have enjoyed the dinner served will
state that he could not have been as
pleased as they were.
Mr. Chlsholm Is a believer in the
theory that a successful hotel does
not make a profit from its dlnfng
room, figuring on breaking as nearly
even as possible and using the dining
room as an advertisement.
J. W. Dobbins, former manager.
left Sunday for San Francisco.
originated in the brains of one lonely
woman on a Wyoming ranch. Not
having the means, opportunity or ma
terial, her ideas laid dormant until
coming to 'Ashland, where with the
assistance ef one or two others her
plans for the S. C, L. C. Reading Cir
cle were formed, whereby eight of
the number of twenty (limited) com
pleted the four-year course were
awarded their diplomas here today.
She brought out clearly the fact of
Ashland's great future possibilities,
what one mind can do, alluding to the
Ashland park and mineral springs,
which have been born and brought
to a successful conclusion by one man
who had for his motto day and night,
"We can and we will." Ashland
needs a larger and mors comfortable
convention hall, and it was shown
that by concerted action, with con
structive thoughts and ideas, we can
draw to us what we want like a mag
net drawing the particles of steel.
The illustration was a good one and
loudly applauded by the audience.
Next number was a fine solo by
Miss Hilty, accompanied by Mrs.
Drake, which showed great musical
talent and culture. Mrs. Drake start
ed a march, which was the signal, for
'the class to take up their Journey
and finish same by passing under the
different arches. The procession In
double file, headed by the incoming
president, Mrs. Foster, and Miss En
gle, led by little Flora Putnam bear
ing flowers, looking like a "fairy,"
followed by the class marching on the
stage, the Golden Gate being opened
by the "fairy," who admitted one at
a time of the graduates, the others
passing to one side through the arch,
seating themselves. The diplomas
were delivered by the president.
Then Sylvester Long was introduced
by the president of southern Oregon
as the greatest Chautauqua orator on
the American platform, who dellverea
the class "talk" in a very able and
impressive manner. Afterwards the
graduates were presented with beau
tiful bouquets and congratulated by
their many friends, when the exer
cises closed.
First Company Goes
To Camp at Fort
Under the leadership of Captain
C. A. Malone, who came up from San
Francisco to take his company to
camp, the First Company C. A. C,
sixty-two strong, left Saturday even
ing for the annual encampment at
Forst Stevens. A better set up bunch
of hardy young men has never been
sent out of Ashland before. Most of
the boys who came in from the hay
fields, orchards and other out-of-door
occupations, and are in trim right
now for the hardest kind of service.
The encampment at Fort Stevens will
last for ten days, and during this
time the boys will be put through
some hard stunts, the new prepared
ness plan making the encampment
more of a serious matter than in for
mer years. The Ashland men will
handle the big guns and expect to
furnish some real competition for the
other companies in artillery target
practice. A big crowd was , at the
station to see the company off.
Capta'n C. A. Malone, First Lieu
tenant D. M. Spencer, Acting First
Sergatnt M. W. Grubb, Quartermaster
sergeant H. 0. Eutterfleld; sergeants,
H. A. Sayle, L. A. Porter, J. Q.
Adams, O. E. Diebert; corporals, A.
B. Freeman, J. A. Graham, H. G.
Wolcott, A. E. Erlckson, J. L. Grubb
Jr., James Poole; cooks, Leslie Phil
lips, Earl Burnett; musicians, A. D.
Powell, J. K. McWIlllams; mechanic,
A. E. Long; privates, P. J. Amer, 0.
G. Anderson, D. R. Eaughman, Roy
Black, R. L. Burdic Jr., D. F. Carjdo,
Arnold Coleman, Ray Coleman, Leslie
Cunningham, Robert L. Divet, Chas.
Freeman, Milton Fraley, Debert Hat
field, Nelson Hall, Frank Hlbbs, J. B.
Icenhower, A. E. Long, H. A. Merrill,
R. L. Harris, C, B. Norton, Ivan
O'Donohue, C. N. Prescott, S. A. Pe
ters, W. Phillips, Oscar P. Peterson,
John 0. Rlgg, Clyde Stearns, H. G.
Spencer, B. F. Tilton, A. A. SettHs,
Don L. Stevens, Oscar Tuttle, Van
Treese, E. VF. Wolcott, Robert Wag
ner, F. G. Wolcott, E. C. Weaver, D.
A. Walker, J. S. Pritchard, Frank
Rush, Will Thomason, Byron W.
Works, William T. Lacey.
Southern Oregon, so bountifully
supplied with those elements which
bring fortunes to men of open mind
and keen perception, seems Just to be
on the threshold of an era of rare
discoveries and wonderful develop
ment. Particularly in the Rogue
River valley tributary to Ashland, In
deed practically within her very bor
ders, are coming to light during re
cent months the evidences of hidden
treasure trampled upon and disre
garded through past centuries by the
clumsy foot and under the clouded
eye of man.
Ashland has mines which have
turned out gold running Into many
thousands, kaolin beds of demon
strated value, other deposits of vari
ous nature and extent, and mineral
springs of great variety and marvel
ous potentiality in attracting the mul
titudes of the world in their anxious
search for health and pleasure.
! These springs have bubbled freely in
past decades awaiting the mind and
hand capable of appreciating and ap
propriating their peculiar value; At
last their merit is realized and is be
ing made known to the world.
Apparently In substantial confirm
ation of the bold faith of optimistic
Ashlanders another new evidence of
uncovered wealth is being revealed
in the development, within the past
few weeks, of mighty deposits of a
splendid granite In the hills to the
southeast. Within a short hour's au
tomobile ride from the business cen
ter ol Ashland the Blair Granite
Company is opening up a quarry
showing great quantities of a very
fine bluish gray -granite. To these
ancient deposits and their possibili
ties your immediate attention Is di
rected by the writer, who, as one of
a party of four, feft Ashland in the
forenoon of July 12 for an Inspection
of this property.
Leaving the old Oregon and Cali
fornia stage road, now a part of hte
Pacific Highway, just beyond the
Neil creek crossing, the road led di
rectly south across the Southern Pa
clfic railroad track and on up the
creek. About one mile above the
Chautauqua Closes
Tomorrow Night
Chautauqua will come to a close to
morrow evening with the biggest
event of the assembly, Larlmore's
circus. In which the hundreds of bovs
and girls of the physical training cou,d not Eet aIong w,th ,llra Ile de'
classes will take part. The program j cluea 10 leave 1116 Part' at lalent-
Fire Chief Sits on
Escaping Deserter
To use the words of Chief of Police
Porter, the deserter who Is impris
oned in the local bastlle Is a "bad
one." The deserter, Roy N. Murray
by name, swears that he will get
loose before he comes to trial at
Spokane or wherever the government
chooses to try him.' On Friday when
the boy from the restaurant was let
Into the jail to take out the prison
er's dinner dishes the man made a
break for the door and got out Into
the fire hall, but was tackled by
George Roblson, who got the best of
the ex soldier and threw him back
into the cool interior of the "Jug,'
where he took out his ire incusslng,
fhe fellow threatened to break out
when Officer ,WImer visited him
whereupon Wlmer dumped him into
one of the steel cells, where he
stands about the chance of getting
loose that he would out of the vault
of the First National Bank.
When asked why he deserted,
Murray replied that he had a row
with the lieutenant In charge of the
eleven men with whom he was mak
lng the trip from Missoula, Mont.,
to Fort AlcDowell, and that since be
for tomorrow follows:
Children's Dav July 18
11:00 New building movement.
2:30 Prelude.
3:00 Fred Emerson Brooks.
4:15 Election of officers.
8:00 Larlmore's Great Annual
Animal Circus. (More than one
hundred star" performers!)
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Dahlberg and
daughter Edith of Grants Pass spent
Thursday In Ashland in attendance at
Chautauqua, . .
Work on the million-dollar post
office at Portland will start In August.
Too much praise cannot be given
to the committee of which Mrs. Hilty
was chairman for their fine artistic
ability and skill.
This we hope will only be the In
itiative of many circles being formed
In Ashland, availing themselves of
the opportunity of a college1 educa
tion at a nominal cost.
The worst grief which he faces Is
the matter of trying to sell his gov
ernment ticket to parties in Talent,
there being a penalty of a $2,000 fine
or Its equivalent In a Jail sentence
hanging In waiting for the person
who commits such an offense. In an
swer to the query of the chief as to
what he should do with Murray, word
was received from the recruiting of
ficers at Spokane to hold hlra here
for further orders and to obtain de
tails of his attempt to sell his ticket.
Hen Must Have
Swelled with Pride
Mrs. John Wlmer sent an egg down
to the Tidings office which must have
caused the hen which laid it to cackle
with' pride for several hours. The
egg measured a fraction over eight
inches by seven Inches in circumfer
ence. The egg was labeled "Llthla
Production," "The Recall Egg."
railroad crossing where the side of
a tributary canyon rises at an angle
of perhaps 40 degrees, the quarry
road branches off, skirting the can
yon slope on the west side on an up
grade of about 1 8 per cent and reach
ing the quarry In a distance of 1,800
feet in a, southwesterly direction.
Vpon arriving at the foot of the hill
the machine was abandoned without
any apparent reason except the de
sire for exercise and the fact that a
heavy truck blocked the way for the
time being. On the walk up the
grade the first delay was occasioned
by greetings to the Chinese cook at a
sidehlll ditch where he appeared to
be after water to boil potatoes. Ap
proaching the quarry, the party was
met by Walter M. Blair, recently of
Portland, general manager, operator
and owner of practically the whole
works. He came forward with a
hearty handshake all around and a
genial smile on his face, probably In
spired by the certain knowledge of
being In possession of a hard, speck
led bonanza. He conducted the visit
ors from start to finish for a com
plete examination of everything con
nected with the operations.
Since February last Mr. Blair has
rebuilt ten bridges on the old Neil
creek road, besides constructing tho
branch road to his quarry. This wan
all done to provide a good highway
for his five-ton truck, which carries
two tons up the hill and all you wane
to pile on for the down trip. To be
sure, the road Is not exactly a paved
thoroughfare, but this man ' Blajr
makes his truck do all the transport
ing both ways. Only this summer
after finishing the road work was tho
actual quarrying commencfU. In at
short time an enormous ledge of the
finest granite obtainable in this coun
try for monuments and building pur
poses was uncovered.
To the casual observer approach
ing the works all Blair has is a big;
pile of sundry rocks and dirt, pro
vided one overlooks the beautiful
stone already gotten out. On thes
flrRt level and directly south of the
hoisting machinery is the cutting
shed with trap doors In the roof'
through which the big "back-lift"
derrick lowers tho granite blocks af
ter grappling them from where they
pre now being blasted out above the-
main ledge perhaps thirty or forty
feet higher than the cutting shed".
This derrick consists of two large
poles about forty feet long. One
of these stands upright and Is:
One of these stands upright and 1:
guyed from the top with six one-lncfu
wire cables reaching in different di
rections to solid anchorages. From
the base of this pole another is hinged
at the bottom in such a way that It
points outward at any angle desired
and can be turned in any directions
From the top of the perpendicular
pole five wire cables running througlr
pulleys support the outward end of
the other pole, from which hansr the
heavy chain and hooka for holding
the rock.
For handling tho stone two forty-
horsepower and one ten-horsepower
motors are used. The power Is fur
nished by the Oregon and California
Power Company, having a line right ,
to the quarry. The building of this
line is one mark of confidence in Mr.
Blair's prospects. The man sent by
the power company to make an In
spection before building the' rtiie
brought with him a piece of granite
from the celeb: ated quarries of
Barre, Vt. Holding this In one hand
and a piece of the Ashland granite m
the other, he agreed on the spot to
put In the power line w ithout guaran
tee of any sort as to consumption of
power. The rock itself was all the
evidence he wanted that plenty of
power would be required.
The trip with Air. Blair over hla
property and his answers to many
questions rired at him constantly by
the visitors proved to be wonderfully
Interesting and revealed the follow
ing facts relative to this spbudld anl
enduring asset at Ashland's door:
The party clamoered up the sfear
mountain side 250 feet above the
main ledge to a second ledge ol gran-
lte a little darker but rot quite ti
faultlessly and uniformly clear as In
the lower ledge. Still fartber up tho
hill is a third ledge near th j top of
the mountain. The exlsterce cf thtse
extensive upper ledges is conclusive
evidence that the lower ledg Is enor
mous in proportions, else during the
original formation the uprer ledges,
lacking adequate support, would have
fallen to a solid foundation.
(Continued on Page Six.)
