JIM M'NEELEY!
JIM I.IVEB l\ TAl"o\t V UK WWTS TO BE GOV
ERNOR UK'S THK NK\T MAS TO UK WRITTEN
I V IN \ C.OOIMU NORKD VKIN IN THK STAR
W ATCH TOR IT IN TOMORHOW s 18SI K.
RAID IS PLANNED ON GOVERNOR'S OEEICE
Secret Plotters Have It All Cut and Dried lor Lee; Independents Must Rally to Mcßride
Ernest Lister, democrat; Henry Mcßride, progressive republican; George A. Lee, old guard politician.
One of these three will be the next governor of Washington. The old guard politicians and the standpat newspapers have "handpicked" George A. Lee. Months
ago they met—-these professional politicians and newspaper "bosses"—for the purpose of choosing a man whom they can control. THEY DECIDED LEE WAS THEIR
MAN, AND LEE IS WILLING TO BE THEIR MAN. Lee was appointed by Gov. Hay first to the state industrial insurance board and then to the public service commis
sion. Just as Hay himself was "putty" in the hands of the professional politicians and newspaper "bosses," so was Lee.
AS A HERITAGE OF HIS ADMINISTRATION AS CHAIRMAN OF THE INDUSTRIAL INSURANCE BOARD, LEE LEFT JOHN F. GILLIES, WHO ROBBED
THE STATE FUNDS.
As chairman of the public service commission, the Lee administration was marked by the scandal of one of the state engineers holding up the city of Centralia for a
large fee in a valuation case, tho the state was supposed to do it free.
When Lee went out of office with Hay, he went into the service, as legal adviser, of the very corporations who had business before the public service commission, of
which he had been a member. LEE'S GREATEST NOTORIETY, HOWEVER, WAS REACHED WHEN HE PUBLICLY CHAMPIONED SENATE BILL 46,
WHICH SOUGHT TO PERPETUATE ALL EXISTING FRANCHISES OF PRIVATE UTILITY CORPORATIONS, AND INTENDED TO EXCLUDE ALL OTH
ERS, EITHER CITIES OR PRIVATE CORPORATIONS, FROM EVER SECURING A COMPETING FRANCHISE. HIS ADVOCACY OF THIS BILL FAIRLY
GIVES THE MEASURE OF GEORGE A. LEE AND MAKES HIM THE LOGICAL CHOICE OF THE "BOSSES."
Henry Mcßride was governor of Washington from 1901 to 1905. He impressed the state with three things: That he is independent, that his word is good, and that his
appointments were made on the basis of efficiency. Mcßride fought for the establishment of the railway commission. He secured the passage of a law which abol
ished railway passes, thus killing off that "legitimized" bribe of legislators and state officials.
HIS INDEPENDENCE COST HIM A RENOMINATION, FOR THE POLITICAL BOSSES CONTROLLED THE CONVENTION IN THOSE DAYS. The railroad
lobbyists beat him. Mcßride's administration was a great step forward in the interests of cleaner politics and state administration. Should Mcßride be the republican
nominee and Lister the democratic choice, the people of the state can feel themselves secure, no matter who is finally elected. Should Lee be the republican choice, the
people will have good cause for worry. If the people do not want a recurrence of the political bossism of other days. The Star sincerely believes it their duty to go into the
republican primaries and nominate Henry Mcßride.
HUNDREDS
MISSING IN
BIG STORM
WASHINGTON, July 17.— |
Th« Southern railroad today
practically suspended traffic
aauth of Washington. Reports
continued to pour In tailing of
disaster from floods in North
•nd South Carolina. A second
bridge on the Charlotte division
want out at la. m. Trains are
unable to proceed beybnd Salis
bury, and no wires are In opera
tion south ef that point, Atlanta
feeing ree'.hed by w»y of Chl
, cago and N-w Orleans.
Hundreds Missing
Ten million dollar*' worth of
property destroyed five jier*on» ]
known dead, hundred* Inl'ired and
miaalng. railroad traffic and tele
phone and telegraph* demoralised.
are the toll of the flood sweeping
the Carolina* and Virginia known
to date
Meager detail* are drifting In j
•ver the crippled line*.
The flood* are the re*ult of the
hurricane of wind and rain which j
•truck the South Atlantic coa«t
Thursday and lifted river* and
Hream* out of their channels
"TRAINS LOST"
Two Cincinnati bound train*, the
Carolina special, which left A*he-
Vtlle Saturday night, and another.
Which left laat night, are "lost" a*
• result of the flood which swept
Ca*tern North < arolina, with the
te** of IS live*.
All railway and commercial tele
graph line* are down.
The dead in the flood caused by
overffow of the French Hroad river
arc
Louise Cressler, Ashevilie.
Lucius Fraier, Ashevilie.
P. W. Lipe, sr.. Blltmore.
Charlotte Walker, Blltmore.
Mabel Foster, Biltmore.
Louise Walker, Biltmore.
Three are dead at llrodernonvllle
•nd six at Charlotte.
Many bridge* were carried away
In the flood, and railway traffic I*
paraiyted
Danger of Famine
Danger of a food famine In A*he
vllle, caused the city authorities to
day to ee|re the food supplies
"The Little Gray Slipper" is a story of spend
thrifts, ne'er-do-wells and criminals and a flawless
woman.
It is laid in Draustadt, the capital of Saxe-Oldenburg.
And Heselton, banished from England, is the hero.
IT STARTS IN TODAY'S STAR. AND WILL BE
COMPLETE IN SIX ISSUES
IF YOU LIKE A RED BLOODED STORY, YOU
WILL, OF COURSE. TURN TO THE STORY
AND START IT RIGHT NOW
The Bremerton navy yard will be fitted up for battleship construction at once. This important new* final congressional action on the appropriation
was published in The Star's Pink edition Friday night. Further details were again published in the regular editions of The Star Saturday afternoon.
None of the other papers in this city had a word of this until Sunday. The Star beat them almost 48 hours. You must get The Star to read the BIG NEWS.
Gasoline price* aoared to $1 a
gallon, and the city also seiied the
entire, aupply.
More than 500 pernoni are home
les* The flood came *o auddenly
that many had to wade from their
home*. Tho*e drowned at Hilt
more were caught In the current
and swept away
Misa Cornelia Vandcrbllt. daugh
ter of the late Alfred Vanderbllt, on
who*e estate Blltmore village I*
built, personally took charge of the
reacue work, wading to the *alat
to save helple** children
Bridge Washed Away
The Southern railroad depot at
Ashevilie 1* flooded to a depth of
*1* feet.
The Southern railroad brtdge over
the Catawba river, at Helmont. N
C„ wa* wa*hed away, carrying I*
men Into the river It ha* not been
learned whether they were saved
Crop Damage
The Seaboard Airline bridge
over the Catawba river, at Mount
Holllck. N ha* collap*ed. a* ha*
that over the Catawba on the Sail*-
bury-.A»h*vllle line
An earth fill at power
dam. near Shelby, hroke and the
Fast Mondon. Weat Mondon. I.lla
doun and Ala pause cotton mill* are
under water A wall of water 40
feet high wa* reported m*hlng
down from lx*>kout ahoal* last
night.
Great crop damage to the sur
rounding country I* reported from
Spartanburg. S due to heavy
rain of the last 4* hours Practical
ly all railway traffic In South West
Virginia and Kastern West Virginia
was tied up yesterday by elides and
waehout*
RESCUERS LOST
CHARI.OTTK. N. C„ July 17.
Grave fear* were felt here today
that a rescue party attempting to
save the 20 men engulfed In the
Catawaba river when a Southern
railway tr**tl« went down la*t
night, ha* been lo*t
The boat carrying the rescuers
' ap*lzed
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS t
VOLUME 19.
WASHINGTOHIAH
TALKED OF FOR
CREDIT BOARD
WASHINGTON. July 17 —
Accompanying the act with a
• peech. paying tribute to tha
farmer* of th» country, Presl
dant Wllaon today algnad tha
rural cradita bill. It provide*
aatabllanmant of a ayetam of
land mortgage banks to handle
long time mortgage loane to
farmer*.
It ta understood th* presi
dent hae practically decided
on two men—C B Kaglay of
Waahington and John Lee
Coultar. dean of the Weat Vir-
glnia Agricultural college, both
republican*. *
The pre*ide«it »tarted Immediate
ly the task of selecting nipmliiTH
of the rural credit* board provided
In the art
A large lint of applicant* for
place* Include* hanker*, mining ri
pert*, scientific farmnrs and law
yer* In every part of the country.
Among iho«* prominently mention
ed are C. fV Kigley. master of the
State Orange of Washington : I* IV
(More, Ijm Porte. Ind ; Herbert
Quirk. Went Virginia. Rowland
Norrt*, lawyer. Pennsylvania. and
a protege of Vance McCormlck and
C A. Mltrbel Palmer; H. .1 Moehl
ernplth, hanker. Clinton. Wis ; W
W Flanagan. New .lersev. F J H
Von Fnkeleken. Florida: U M Ral
*ton, Indiana, and J. U Coulter,
Weat Virginia
County and City
Game Brings $262
Proceed« from the baseball game
In which the City Dads' team trim
med the County Dads and Grand
dadf nine, under the auspices of
The Star, at Inigilale* field. Hatur
(My. totaled up Monday rxurtly
$262.76.
The money wa* carried In a se< k
to Adjt (ien Maurice Thompson's
office Monday by Frank Hull, man
nger of the defeated team, and Al
l>rake, manager of the victors
It will he sent to the men of the
Seattle mllltln companies on the
Mexican border for their "mess
fund."
ENGLAND SPENDING
$30,000,000 A DAY
J..ONOON, July 17. Knaland* <■*
p<-ndltur»* Imvp now reached a
total of £6,000,000 I about |.10.
000,000) dally, f'hanrellor of lh<'
Bxrhequer MrKf-nna Informed tli«
hoiiao of commons today.
NAVAL MEN MEET
Tho K* STvlrx Naval Mon'a Hub
mill m«-Pt In room 20X Marlon build
in* at *:I5 Tueaday pvenln*. At
th*>«> meetings many px shlpmatex
rm-pt «»aih othrr for tlir flrat tlmo
In yeara. Kx aervlcr men who ran
not attend the mf-tln* havi- be«m
r*qij»Kt»d to telephone l)r. V. Shel
don Smith. Elliott 301,
SKATTLK. WASH, MONDAY. JULY 17. 1916
SEEKERS AFTER WORK
ARE TREATED TO FOUL
AIR IN CITY'S OFFICE
Haturday aft«rt)c>n I went to the men'* employment »*« - ncy, in Ihe
baaoment of the rilvrounly building
Th« re ii> only on* »ay of emeriti* the employment aitenrv Tlial
la by coins down a lon« flight of atalr* from James »t . Into a liny, dark
seldom less than SO. and mote often than not thero are 100 They • oitit
In every condition of health and every condition of usefulness !*oine
times they will *lt from the time the office opens in the morning until
It close* In the evening, gazing dully at the bulletin boards. Often the
health authorltla* will carry a typhoid or smallpo* victim, or a con
sumptive. who has fallen 111 In the agency, to the city hospital
CONSUMPTIVE CASE
Only last week a man sat for two days In the same chair, his chin
sunk on his hraaet: the only movement he made was when a long, con
vulslve cough shook him from head to foot. \t the end of the second
day he fell out of hla chair onto the floor At the city hospital they
diagnosed It as tuberculosis In Its last stage
Things like that cannot be helped, of course Bvcrv man Is entitled
to seek work. But there Is a thing that can be helped.
The air In that room Is thick The poison of It hangs heavy, like a
blue haxi. and seeps out Into the street At the first encounter, the
lungs refuse It and one chokes and grows faint. Then, after moments
of forced breathing. It Is like an opiate, dulling the mind
It reeks with the odors of days' old tobacco smoke. There Is not a
breath of movement thru It, not even one electric fan to stir ll about.
Two weeks ago the men who have to stand all day behind the coun
ters In the little cage 111 the center of the room, and d< ul out the Jobs,
complained to the department of health and sanitation The depart
ment responded by sending a deputation to Investigate The deputation
came, choked, opened It* eyex In horror, talked wildly about dl*eane
germs, and announced that, unless Ihe air was completely changed c-v
--orv two minutes. It would be a positive menaito health And that was
all ever done
Since then there. lihh been ««idr»rl the poison of Iwo more weeks (if
absolutely no ventilation.
BRITISH STORM
SECOND LINES
T.ONDON, .Inly 17. • Hrltlah
troopa atorined nnd raptured tier
man aecond line positions on a
front of 1,.100 yards In a continua
tion of the drive north < f the
Homme, Gen. Halg reported today.
The advance was made northwest
of Hazont In l<e I'etlt woods. which
la now In the hands of the Hrltlah,
and pressed the ItrltUh line for
ward to the very edges of Martin
puli h village, one of the German
strongholds defending Rahaume
"BOMB" FLOATED IN
The "bomh" reported found near
the King K Wlnge shipyards Hat
urdav afternoon proved to he only
a sack of powder, auch as la uaed
at the coaal artillery forta, on po
[lice Investigation. It bad floated In
with tho tide.
BV CORNELIA CLASS
areaway. and from the ar«away going down another
long flight of stalra Into a big. da.k room, where Se
attle'a unemployed apply for work
There were more than 100 men there, some
lounging In the chairs about the wall, others standing
about the bulletin boards, where the Jobs were being
posted.
NO VENTILATION
Kven before I started down the first flight of
stair* I reallted that I was descending Into a place
where ventilation was unknown.
There are two set* of windows In the room One
set opens u|K»n the little, dark ar«*awa' on James st.
where there Is never any movement of the air, and
the other set. upon the opposite wall, open* upon an
inner room of the building
J."very day. from 9 o'clock until R, the room of the
employment agency Is full of men There are very
HEALTHER9 ALARMFD
ASTORIA WINS
ITS RATE CASE
WASHINGTON. .Tilly 17.—The
Interstate rommcrrn commission
today denied the application for re
hearing In the Astoria rate rase,
In which Astoria was ordered plac
ed on h parity with I'uget wound on
shipments from Kastern territory.
New rutea are ordered to he made
effective not. later than September
lf>.
CLAIM RUSSIANS
LOST 262,000 MEN
IIKRUN, via Wireless to Say
vllle, I. I , .Inly 17. lluaalan losses
since the beginning of the preaent
offensive until July 10 total more
than 261!,000, the oeml official news
agency estimated today.
* one cent
MAN FOUND DEAD
IN MR; POLICE
TO WRECK SHOP
Orders were laaued by Chief
Buckingham to police o'flccrt
Monday noon to wreck the Al
ki bar, 105 Washington at . fol
lowing a conference with May-
or Gill and Proaacutor Lundln
Otto Hanaon, manager of the e-s
tabllwhment. Is being held by the
police.
He was arretted Sunday night,
after Martin Hanson, a laborer,
had died In an alley near Waahlne
ton st . between First and Second
a*e», with a half consumed bottle
of alcohol In his pocket, t*atuiday
night
Chief Becklngham said Monday
that charges of manslaughter would
be preferred against Otto Hanson.
If an autopsy liy the coroner re
veals that Martin Hanson died
from the name kind of alcohol ob
tained by the police at the Alkl bar
Sunday.
The victim* brother, Oeorge
Hantsnn. 3812 Crahani »vi> , told the
police that his dead brother had
purchased the liquor at the Alkt
bar. and that he had spent roost of
hi* money there during the last two
weeks
The autopsy |r scheduled to bo
held Monday afternoon.
DEUTSCHLAND
READY TO LEAVE
BALTIMORE. July 17 The C,er
man submarine l>eutschland now
plans to slip down tne Patapsco
river and Into Chesapeake hay to
morrow night, en route back to Ger
many, a member of the crew told
the I'nlted Press today leading
should be finished tomorrow, at the
present rate
f'apt. Illnsch gave corroboration
thai the return trip Is at band when
he announced no visitors will be
permitted to board the * easel afler
tomorrow
('apt. Illnsch told the t'nltcd
I'ress be expects the Bremen In a
few days, and that she will come
hern or to New York, tho he inti
mated Baltimore would he the port
Pear of spies and bombs seemed
to be strongly upon the crew and
managers of the Deutschlsnd to
day.
The vigilance of the past week
had Increased. Kven police of
ficials who had been permitted free
entrance to her pier were barred.
All night the powerful searchlight
played nervously over the waters to
pick ui> launches and to search the
shores for unwelcome watchers.
It had been announced that ('apt.
Kocnlg would go to New York to
see Ambassador Hernstorff and
bring back a package of diplomatic
mall. But Manager Hllken said
this afternoon:
"The captain will atay right
here "
("apt Mlnach of the Rastern For
warding Co., HeutHchlnnd agents,
aald emphatically that I here will bp
no Americana on the vessel when
ahe returns.
"They would not protect hor," he
added.
NIGHT EDITION
ÜBOROK PUT 1118 I MMIIKI.U IN THK CORNER,
TOOK OFF IIIH RIHUKRH, AND PREDICTED, MON-
I'A V. "TONIOHT AND TUKB DA T, GENERALLY
I AIR. WARMER TUKHDAV."
UNION HERE
REFUSES TO
QUIT STRIKE
Puget Sound longshoremen will not return to work
under open shop conditions and at the wage scale in ef
fect prior to their strike, regardless of the action of the
San Francisco union.
"Seattle, Tacoma and other Puget Sound unions
have decided to stand solid for the demands made at
the time of the strike," said J. A. Madsen, secretary
treasurer of the longshoremen for this district. "We
are not going back to work under the old conditions."
Henrv M. White, federal mediator of the strike,
met Monday at 10 a. m. with officials of the Long
shoremen's association and the Waterfront Hmployers'
union to arrange if possible for a conference in the hope
of ratifying the action of the San Francisco longshore
men.
Madaen said the union might
hold a meeting Monday evening to
talk over the San Francisco agree
ment. Ratification of that agree
ment would not be considered, how
ever. he said
"All the Pacific coast is with
us," he said. "If the San Francis
co union goes back to work, ll will
be Isolated."
At noon, Mediator White said he
had accomplished l.ut little.
t'apt. J. S (ilbson. president of
the Water Front Huiployert' union,
and C Coniwr and S. C. Smith, rep
resenting the Pacific t'oast dis
trict of the lxmgshorcmen'B asso
ciation. conferred with him.
"I hope to cet the factions to
gether for business." he said,
"either this afternoon or tomorrow
morning, the earlier the better."
It Is said the Sar. Franciscans
took the view that o-ganlied labor
generally was lot In sympathy
with the last strike and that the
strikers co.tld not win.
A total .\>te of 1.135 was taken,
1,188 were in favor of the agree
inent and i>4!> against Its ratifica
tion.
NONUNION MEN ORGANIZE
Nonunion longshoremen are or
ganized Monday under the name
of the Independent I.ahorcrs' asso
ciation.
About fi. r i attended the organlza
tion meetlnp
CHIEF ASKS LUNDIN
FOR TWO WARRANTS
Prosecutor I.undln will probably
issue warrants Monday afternoon
for person.! who participated In
the strike riot, at First ave. and
Pike st. Saturday night, charging
them with carrying concealed
weapons
Police Chief Rockingham visited
the proseeu'or Monday morning
and aaked for warrants for F.
Kz.eile, a striker, and King Robin
son. a negr > strikebreaker.
Itecauae the chle did not have
the name:< of -.vltneKses, l.undln re
fused to Iss'ie the warrants at that
time, but arranged for a later con
STRIKE DEVELOPMENT
San Francisco union man
vote to return to work at old
scale.
Mediator Henry M. White ar
ranges for Monday and Tues
day conferences between lon*-
shoremen and employers, hop
ing to ratify San Francisco
agreement.
Saturday night and Sunday
riots In Seattle and Tamma re
sult In one death, one probably
fatal wounding, and several
persons wounded by bullets
and beaten up.
Vnlon longshoremen deny
they will ratify the action of
San Francisco labor leaders.
Nonunion longshoremen form
"open shop unions'
Police Ch'ef Heokinghsm or
ders xll nonunion men search
ed for guns befote lea^ng
dock*
Commercial C'.ub vote* In
favor of "open shop."
ference. *t which Ricklngham said
he would produce the witnesses.
Eaelle Is raid to lieve pointed a
revolver .it a negro during the riot,
and Robinson was nen flourishing
a gun during the affray.
Other Strike News on
Page 5
SAYS VILLA'S SURE
ENOUGH A DEAD ONE
WASHINGTON. July 17.—Villa la
dead. Gen. Pershing's troops will be
out of Mexico within a month, and
the National Guard hack home with
in three months, a high war depart
ment official said today.
Villas name la heing used by mi
nority leaders to inspire fear among
farranza troops, the official said,
lie declared Carranza was stronger
today in Mexico than he ever had
bepn. principally because he had
averted war with the I'nlted States
"without loss of dignity by Mexico,"
